J^ 



^^/^ 



ENGLISH FARMING 

PAST AND PRESENT 



NGLTSH FARMING 

PAST AND PRESENT 



BY 



frrt/g. ROWLAND E. PROTHERO i^CB^r^n 

' ' ' LATE FELLOW OF ALL 30DL8 COLLEGE, OXFORD 



"Writing and ploughing are two different talents ; and 
he that writes well must have spent in his study that 
time which is necessary to be spent in the fields by him 
who will be master of the art of cultivating them." 

Jethro Tull. 



LONGMANS, GEEEN, AND CO. 

39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON 

NEW YORK, BOMBAY AND CALCUTTA 
1912 

All rights reserved 



5 

t7 



J^ 



PREFACE 

English Farming Past and Present is based on an article which 
appeared in the Quarterly Review for 1885. The article was 
subsequently expanded into a book, published in 1888 by Messrs. 
Longman under the title of The Pioneers and Progress of English 
Farming. 

The book has been out of print for twenty years. Written with 
the confidence of comparative youth and inexperience, it expressed 
as certainties many opinions which might now be modified, if 
not withdrawn. But its motives were two convictions, which time 
has rather strengthened than weakened. One was, that the small 
number of persons who owned agricultural land might some day 
make England the forcing-bed of schemes for land-nationalisation, 
which countries, where the ownership of the soil rested on a more 
democratic basis, repudiated as destructive of all forms of private 
property. The other was, that a considerable increase in the number 
of peasant ownerships, m suitable hands, on suitable land, and in 
suitable localities, was socially, economically, and agriculturally 
advantageous. 

Since 1888, the whole field of economic history has been so care- 
fully and skilfully cultivated, that another work on a branch of 
the subject might appear superfluous. But there still seemed to 
be room for a consecutive history of Enghsh agriculture, written 
from a practical point of view, and tracing the influence of the 
progi'ess of the industry on the social conditions of those engaged 
in its pursuit. Great economic changes have resulted from small 
alterations in the details of manufacturing processes. Similar 
changes may often be explained by some little-noticed alterations 
in farming practice. The introduction of the field-cultivation of 
turnips, for example, was as truly the parent of a social revolution 
as the introduction of textile machinery. The mam object of 
The Pioneers and Progress of English Farming, and, in greater 



vi PREFACE 

detail, of English Farming Past and Present, is to suggest that 
advances in agricultural skill, the adoption of new methods, the 
application of new resources, the invention of new implements, 
have been, under the pressure of national necessities, powerful 
instruments in breaking up older forms of rural society, and in mould- 
ing them into their present shape. 

Students of economic and social questions — and at the present 
day most people are interested in these subjects — will decide 
whether the influence of these simple and natural causes has been 
greater or less than is suggested. Even those who consider that 
their importance is exaggerated, may find in the record of their 
progress a useful commentary on the pohtical explanations which 
they themselves prefer to adopt. The book may still serve another 
purpose. It touches rural life at many different points and at 
many different stages. Dwellers in the country are surrounded 
by traces of older conditions of society. They may perhaps find, 
through English Farming Past and Present, a new interest in piecing 
together the fragments of an agricultural past, and in reconstructing, 
as in one of the fashionable occupations of the day, a picture of the 
Middle Ages or of the eighteenth century in the midst of their 
own famihar surroundings. 

Now that the book is in print and on the eve of pubHcation, I 
feel more acutely than ever the disadvantages under which it has 
been prepared. English Farming Past and Present is the bj^-product 
of a life occupied in other pursuits than those of literature. It has 
been impossible to work upon it for any continuous period of time. 
Written in odd half -hours, it has been often laid aside for weeks 
and even months. My thanks are therefore due, in more abundant 
measure, to Professor Ashley, Sir Ernest Clarke, and Mr. H. Trus- 
tram Eve, who have kindly read the proof-sheets and helped me 
with corrections, and above all to Mr. G. H. Holden, who has also 
verified the references and prepared the Index. 

ROWLAND E. PROTHERO. 
September 6, 1912. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I. 
THE MANORIAL SYSTEM OF FARMING. 

Virgin soils : traces of sites of early villages : " wild field-grass " husbandly ; 
the permanent division of pastvire from tillage ; manors and trade-guilds ; 
origin of manors ; the thirteenth century manor and village ; divisions 
of land according to differences of tenure ; villages isolated and self- 
sufficing ; importance of labour-rents in the economy of a manor ; the 
cultivation of the demesne ; the crops grown ; the live-stock ; miscel- 
laneous produce ; the manorial courts : the social grades among the 
villagers ; the system of open-field farming ; the arable land ; the meadows ; 
the hams ; the pasture commons ; the prevalence and permanence of 
the open-field system ; the domestic industries of the village. Pp. 1-30 

CHAPTER n. 

THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR. 1300-1485. 

Great landlords as farn:iers : horrors of winter scarcity : gradual decay of 
the manorial system and the increased struggle for life : aspects of the 
change : common rights over cultivated and uncultivated land : tendency 
towards separate occupation : substitution of labour-rents for monej'- 
rents ; the Black Death ; Labour legislation, and its effect ; Manor of 
Castle Combe and Berkeley Estates ; new relations of landlords and 
tenants substituted for old relations of feudal lords and dependents ; 
tenant-farmers and free labourers ; leases and larger farms ; increase of 
separate occupations : William Paston and Hugh Latimer ; wage-earning 
labourers ; voluntary surrender of holdings ; freedom of movement and 
of contract. Pp. 31-54 

CHAJ^TER HI. 

FARMING FOR PROFIT: PASTURE AND SHEEP- 

GRAZIXG. 1485-1558. 

The passing of the Middle Ages : enclosures in the sixteenth and eighteenth 
centuries compared ; the commercial impulse and its results ; conversion 



viii CONTENTS 

of tillage to pasture : enclosures and depopulation : legislation against 
enclosures ; literary attack on enclosures ; the practical defence of en- 
closures : larger farms in separate occupation : loss of employment ; 
enclosures equitably arranged, or enforced by tyranny ; legal powers of 
landowners ; open-field farmers not the chief sufferers by enclosures ; 
scarcity of emplosrment and rise in prices ; the new problem of poverty : 
the ranks of vagrants ; the Elizabethan fraternity of vagabonds. 

Pp. 55-77 

CHAPTER IV. 
THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH. 

Paternal despotism : restoration of the purity of the coinage ; a definite 
commercial policy : revival of the wool trade : new era of prosperity 
among landed gentry and occupiers of land : a time of adversity for small 
landowners and wage-earning labourers : Statute of Apprentices ; hiring 
fairs ; growth of agricultural Hterature : Fitzherbert and Tusser : their 
pictiu-e of Tudor farming : defects of the open-field system : experience of 
the value of enclosures ; improvement in farming : Barnaby Googe ; 
Sir Hugh Plat : progress in the art of gardening. Pp. 78-102 

CHAPTER V. 

FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION. 1603-1660. 

FARMING UNDER THE FIRST STEWARTS AND THE 
COMMONWEALTH. 
Promise of agricultural progress checked by the Civil War : agricultural 
writers and their suggestions : Sir Richard Weston on turnips and clover : 
conservatism of English farmers ; their dislike to book-farming not im- 
reasonable : unexhausted improvements discussed ; Walter Blith on 
drainage : attempts to drain the fens in the eastern counties ; the resist- 
ance of the fenmen : new views on commons : Winstanley's claims : 
enclosures advocated as a step towards agricultural improvement. 

Pp. 103-129 

CHAPTER VL 

THE LATER STEWARTS AND THE REVOLUTION. 
1660-1700. 

Worlidge's Systema Agriculturae (1669) : improvements suggested by agri- 
cultural writers ; tyranny of custom ; contempt for book-farming ; slow 
progress in farming skill ; general standard low ; horses, cattle, sheep, 
and pigs in the seventeenth century ; want of leaders ; growing influence 



CONTENTS ix 

of landowners ; the finance of the Restoration, and the abolition of 
military tenures ; Jegislation to promote agriculture ; Gregory King on 
the State and Condition of England and Wales in 1696 : the distribution 
of population and wealth. Pp. 130-147 



CHAPTER VII. 
JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND. 1700-1760. y 

Agricultural progress in the eighteenth century ; ■enclosures necessary to 

advance ; {aiivocates and opponents of the enclosing movement ; area / 

of uncultivated land and of land cultivated in open-fields ; defects of the V 
open-field system as a method of farming ; pasture commons as adjuncts 
to open-field holdings ; the necessary lead in agricultural progress given 
by large landowners and large farmers ; procedm-e in enclosures by Act 
of Parhament : varying dates at which districts have been enclosed : 
influence of soil and climate in breaking up or maintaining the open-field 
system : the East Midland and Xorth Eastern group of counties : improved 
methods and increased resources of farming; Jethro Tull the "greatest 
individual improver " ; Lord Townshend's influence on Norfolk husbandry. 

Pp. 148-175 

CHAPTER VIII. 

THE STOCK-BREEDER'S ART AND ROBERT BAKEWELL. 

1725-1795. , 



Necessity for improving the live-stock of the country ; sheep valued for 
their wool, cattle for power of draught or yield of milk ; beef and mutton 
the growing need : Robert Bakewell the agricultiu-al opportunist ; his 
experiments with the Black Horse, the Leicester Longhorns, and the New 
Leicesters ; rapid progress of stock-breeding : sacrifice of wool to mutton. 

Pp. 176-189 

CHAPTER IX. 

ARTHUR YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF 

KNOWLEDGE. 1760-1800. ^ 

The counties distinguished for the best farming : Hertfordshire, Essex, SuflPolk, 
Norfolk, Leicestershire : the low general standard ; Arthur Young ; his 
crusade against bad farming, and the hindrances to progress ; waste 
land ; the " Goths and Vandals " of open-field farmers : want of capital 
and education ; insecurity of tenure ; prejudices and traditional practices ; 
impassable roads ; rapid development of manufacture demands a change 
of agricultiu-al front : Young's advocacy of capitalist landlords and large 
tenant-farmers. Pp. 190-206 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER X. 

LARGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS. 
1780-1813. 

Agricultural enthusiasm at the close of the eighteenth century ; high prices 
of agricultural produce ; the causes of the advance ; increased demand 
and cessation of foreign supplies ; the state of the currency ; rapid advance 
of agricultm-e on the new lines of capitalist farming ; impulse given to 
enclosing movement and the introduction of improved practices ; Davy's 
Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry ; the work of large landlords : Coke 
of Norfolk. Pp. 207-223 



CHAPTER XL 

OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 
1793-1815. 

Condition of open-field arable land and pasture commons as described by the 
Reporters to the Board of Agricultui-e, 1793-1815; (1) The North and 
North-Western District ; (2) West Midland and South-Western District 
(3) South-Eastern and Midland District ; (4) Eastern and North-Eastern 
District ; (5) the Fens ; the cuinulative effect of the evidence ; procedure 
under private Enclosure Acts ; its defects and cost ; the General enclosure 
Act of 1801 ; the Inclosure Commissioners ; the new Board of Agriculture. 

Pp. 224-252 



CHAPTER Xn. 
THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS. 

Difficulty in deciding on the good or bad influence of the Com Laws ; restric- 
tions on home as well as on foreign trade in corn ; gxadual abandonment of 
the attempt to secure just prices by legislation ; means adopted to steady 
prices ; prohibition both of exports and of imports : the bounty on home- 
grown corn ; the system estabhshed in 1670 and 1689 lasts till 1815 ; its 
general effect ; influence of seasons from 1689 to 1764, and from 1765 to 
1815 ; difficulty of obtaining foreign supplies during the Napoleonic wars ; 
practical monopoly in the home market : small margin of home supply 
owing to growth of population ; exaggerated effect on prices of good or 
bad harvests; protection after 1815; demand by agricultm-ists for fair 
profits ; changed conditions of supply ; repeal of the Corn Laws, 1846. 

Pp. 253-274 



CONTENTS xi 

CHAPTER XIII. 
HIGHWAYS. 

Difficulties of communication ; influence of natural waterways on inland 
trade ; artificial waterways and canal constiiiction ; Roman roads ; 
mediaeval road-repair : roads in Tudor times ; introduction of turnpikes 
at the Restoration ; condition of eighteenth centurj' roads ; failure of 
statutory labour ; rival theories of Telford and M'Adam ; extinction of 
turnpike trusts ; highway rates ; main roads. Pp. 275-289 

^CHAPTER XIV. • 
THE RURAL POPULATION. 1780-1813. 

EfTect of enclosures on the rural population ; no necessary reduction in the 
number of small owners, but rather an increase ; consohdation of farms, 
either by purchase from small owners, or by throwing tenancies together ; 
the strict letter of the law ; small occupiers become landless labourers ; 
depopulation of villages when tillage was abandoned for pasture ; scarcity 
of enaployment in open-field villages ; the literary controversy ; the mate- 
rial injury infiicted upon the rural poor by the loss of the commons ; no 
possible equivalent in cash- value : the moral injury ; the simultaneous 
decay of domestic industries ; the rapid rise after 1790 in the price of 
provisions ; a substantial advance in agricultural wages. Pp. 290-315 

^^ CHAPTER XV. 

AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION AND THE POOR LAW. 

1813-1837. 

War taxation : peace and beggary : slow recoverj- of agriculture ; the harvest 
of 1813 ; reality and extent of distress ; the fall of prices ; bankruptcies 
of tenant-farmers; period of acute depression, 1814-36; ruin of small 
owners ; misery of agricultural labourers ; reduction in wages and scarcity 
of employment ; allowances from the rates ; general pauperisation : the 
new Poor Law, 1834, and its administration. Pp. 316-331 



CHAPTER XVI. 
TITHES. 

The incidence of tithes under the old law • the historical origin of tithes 
a free-will offering ; a customary payment ; the appeal to conscience 



i 



xii CONTENTS 

ecclesiastical penalties for non-payment ; a legal liability : tithes as 
parochial endowments ; the Reformation ; the collection of tithes in 
kind unpopular and expensive to tithe-owners ; substituted forms of 
payment ; the Tithe Commutation Act of 1836 ; its object and machinery. 

Pp. 332-345 



CHAPTER XVII. 
HIGH FARMING. 1837-1874. 

Condition of agriculture in 1837 ; current explanation of the distress; pre- 
paration for a new start in farming ; legislative changes ; development of 
a railway system ; live-stock in 1837 ; the general level of farming ; 
foundation of the Royal Agricultural Society ; notable improvements, 
1837-74; extension of drainage; purchase of feeding stuffs; discovery 
of artificial fertilisers ; mechanical improvements and inventions ; Repeal 
of the Corn Laws ; the golden age from 1853 to the end of 1862 ; rapid 
progress m the " Fifties " ; pedigree mania in stock-breeding. 

Pp. 346-373 

CHAPTER XVin. 
ADVERSITY. 1874-1912. 

Industrial crisis ; special difficulties of farmers ; the weather, and foreign 
competition; Richmond Commission, 1879-82; second agricultural crisis, 
1891-99; Royal Commission of 1893; changes in farming; the day of 
small things ; progress ; the aid of science ; management of dairy pro- 
duce ; agricultural education ; effects of present elementary education. 

Pp. 374-392 

CHAPTER XIX. 
CONCLUSION. 

1888 and 1912 : political agitation then and now ; the situation contrasted 
and compared ; the position of landowners ; of tithe-owners ; of tenant- 
farmers ; tenant-right as a defence against sales ; agricultural labourers, 
their slow progress between 1834 and 1884, and their Unions; their 
improved position in 1912. The problem of the future ; the reconstruction 
of village hfe : the necessity of an agricultural policy : the prospect of 
increased burdens on agricultural land. Pp. 393-418 



APPENDICES. 
APPENDIX I. 

Chronological list of Agricultural Writers down to 1700. Pp. 419-430 



CONTENTS xiii 

APPENDIX II. 

The Poor Law from 1601 to 1834. Pp. 431-438 

APPENDIX III. Pp. 439-452 

THE CORN LAWS. 

A. Prices of Wheat, 1646-1911 (p. 440). 

B. The Principal Acts relating to the Corn Trade (p. 442). 

C. The Assize of Bread (p. 448). 

D. Exports and Imports of Corn, 1697-1801 (p. 452). 

E. Boimties paid on Exports of Corn, 1697-1765 (p. 452). 

APPENDIX IV. 

Tables of Estimates by Gregory King and Charles Davenant. Pp. 453-455 

APPENDIX V. 

Estimates of Acreage and Cropping, 1808, 1827. P. 456 

APPENDIX VI. 

Collection of Tithes. Pp. 457-459 

APPENDIX VII. 

The Agricultural Population according to Census Returns of 1851, 1861, 
1871, 1881, 1891, 1901. Pp- 460-461 

APPENDIX VIII. 

Imports of Food, 1866-1911. Pp- 462-463 

APPENDIX IX. 

Agricultural Statistics, 1866-1911. Pp. 464-467 

APPENDIX X. 

Agricultural Wages, 1768-70, 1824, 1837, 1850-1, 1860, 1869-70, 1882, 
1892, 1898, 1910. Pp. 468-470 

Index. Pp- 471-604. 



CHAPTER I. 
THE MANORIAL SYSTEM OF FARMING. 

Virgin soils : traces of sites of early villages : " wild field-grass" husbandry ; 
the permanent division of pasture from tillage ; manors and trade-guilds ; 
origin of manors ; the thirteenth century manor and village ; divisions 
of land according to differences of tenure ; villages isolated and self- 
sufficing; importance of labour-rents in the economy of a manor; the 
cultivation of the demesne ; the crops grown ; the live-stock ; miscel- 
laneous produce ; the manorial courts : the social grades among the 
villagers ; the system of open-field farming ; the arable land ; the meadows ; 
the hams ; the pasture commons ; the prevalence and permanence of 
the open-field system ; the domestic industries of the village. 

Improvements in the art and science of English agriculture were 
in its infancy dependent on the exhaustion of virgin soils. So 
long as land was abundant, and the people few or migratory, no 
rotation of crops was needed. Fresh land could be ploughed each 
year. It was only when numbers had increased and settlements 
became permanent, that farmers were driven to devise methods of 
cultivation which restored or maintained the fertility of their 
holdings. 

The progress of farming is recorded in legal documents, in manorial 
accounts, in agricultural literature. But the story is also often 
preserved in the external aspect which the land, the villages, or the 
hedgerows bear in the twentieth century. Dry uplands, where the 
least labour told the most, were first occupied and cultivated ; 
rich valleys, damp and filled with forest growth, remained unin- 
habited and untilled. In spite of difiiculties of water-supply, 
light or sandy soils, or chalky highlands seem to have been the 
sites of the oldest villages. Patches of the lower slopes of downs 
were cleared of self-sown beech, and sheltered dips tilled for corn ; 
the high ground behind was grazed by flocks and herds ; the beech 
woods supplied mast for the swine. Sahsbury Plain, a century 
ago, bore no sign of human life except the proverbial " thief or 

A 



2 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

twain " — no contemporary mark of the hand of man but the 
gallows and their appendages. Yet here are to be found traces of 
numerous villages. Scored on the sides of the Wiltshire, Dorset, 
Hampshire, and Sussex downs, " Lynches," " Lynchets," or 
" Daisses," — grass-grown terraces or benches, — still run horizontally, 
one above the other, along the slopes. The " elf -furrows " of Scot- 
land seem to record a similar occupation of hill sites. Local 
tradition attributes their formation to spade husbandry. Marshall, 
in 1797, suggested, but only to reject, the operation of the plough. 
Fifty years later, Poulett Scrope adopted a similar suggestion ; 
more recently Seebohm revived the same theory. Whatever 
explanation of the formation of these terraces may be correct, 
they indehbly indicate the sites of the earHest settlements, and 
the nature of the soil first selected for tillage. 

The most primitive form of agriculture is that known as " wild 
field -grass " husbandry. Joint occupation and joint tillage were 
probably its characteristics, as they afterwards were of tribal or 
village communities. The essential difference hes in this. In the 
open fields of the vUlage, pasturage and tillage continue to be 
separated ; grass-land always remains meadow or pasture ; it is 
never broken up for tillage. Under the more primitive form of 
convertible husbandry, fresh tracts of grass were successively 
taken in, ploughed, and tilled for corn. As the soU became ex- 
hausted, they reverted to pasture. Such a practice may belong to 
some portions of the Celtic race, or to nomadic stages of civihsa- 
tion. In 1804 Marshall thought that he could trace the " wild 
field-grass " system in a custom of the south-western counties. In 
some districts lords of the manor enjoyed rights of letting portions 
of the grass commons to be ploughed up, cultivated for corn, and 
after two years thrown back into pasture. Over the whole country, 
from the Tamar to the eastern border of Dorsetshire, he found 
that open commons, such as the wide expanse of Yarcombe and 
the hills above Bridport, m hich from time immemorial had never 
known the plough, were distinctly marked with the ridge and 
furrow. Other features of rural life, which a century ago were 
more peculiar to the south-west of England, suggest that arable 
tillage by village communities, if it ever prevailed in this district, 
was soon exchanged for a system of convertible husbandry better 
suited to a damp cHmate. The cultivated land is divided into 
little patches by the high Devonshire earthwork, or hedge ; the 



PERMANENT SEPARATION OF TILLAGE FROM GRASS 3 

large open-fields of the parish can rarely be traced ; fewer of the 
inhabitants are collected into villages, more are scattered in single 
houses or tiny hamlets. Cornwall and parts of Devonshire, hke 
Brittany, are a country of hedges, and of a Celtic race. 

This " wild field-grass " husbandry was displaced in most parts 
of England by the permanent separation of arable from pasture 
land. The change indicates an advance towards a more settled 
state of society, but not necessarily an advance in agricultural 
practice. The fixed division of tillage and grass may have been 
introduced into this country by a people accustomed, Hke the 
Romans or the Anglo-Saxons, to a drier and less variable climate. 
If so, it was on this ahen system that the agricultural organisation 
of the mediaeval manor was based. On it also were founded the 
essential features of those village communities which at one time 
tilled two-thirds of the cultivated soil of England, survived the 
criticism of Fitzherbert in the sixteenth century, outHved the 
onslaught of Arthur Young in the eighteenth century, clung to 
the land in spite of thousands of enclosure acts, were carried to the 
New World by the Pilgrim Fathers, and linger to this day in, for 
instance, the Nottinghamshire village of Lexington, where half 
the land of the parish is tilled by an agricultural association of 
partners. 

In the early stages of history, the law itself was powerless to 
protect individual independence or to safeguard individual rights. 
Agriculture, like other industries, was therefore organised on prin- 
ciples of graduated dependence and collective responsibiUty. I j 
Mediaeval manors, in fact, resembled trade guilds, and it would 
be difficult to frame an organisation which, given the weakness of 
law and the infancy of agriculture, was better calculated to efiect 
the object of mutual help and protection. Communities grouped 
together in villages were less hable to attack than detached farm- 
houses and buildings ; common methods of farming facilitated that 
continuous cultivation which otherwise might have been interrupted 
by the frequent absence of the able-bodied men on mihtary expedi- 
tions ; the observance of common rules of management may have 
hindered improvement, but, if strictly enforced, it also prevented 
deterioration. Thus the system was suitable to the times and their 
conditions. 

The origin of the legal relation of manors to village communities 
Ues outside the scope of the present enquiry. It concerns tenures 



4 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

rather than systems of cultivation. Two theories explain the rights 
of manorial lords and rights of common exercised over manorial 
lands. The legal theory, in its crudest form, is that the lord of the 
manor is the absolute owner of the soil of his manor, and that rights 
acquired over any part of it by freeholders and tenants are acquired 
against him, and originate in his grant or sufferance. The historical 
theory, stated baldly, is that seK-governing, independent com- 
munities of freemen originally owned the land in common, and were 
gradually reduced to dependence by one of their members, or by a 
conqueror, who became the lord of the soil. There seems to be no 
doubt that individual ownership belongs to an earlier stage of 
civihsation than communal ownership. But if the second theory is 
correct, the legal position of the lord of the manor represents a 
series of encroachments, which transformed the Mark of freemen 
into the Mark of bondmen, and changed the rights of the villagers 
over the wastes of the district into customary rights of user over 
the lord's soil. Questions of the origin and antiquity of manors, 
and the extent to which they prevailed before the Norman Conquest, 
have been to a great degree reopened by recent studies. Seebohm, 
for example, practically supported the legal view by historical 
argument. He traced the feudal manor to the Roman villa, with 
the lord's estate as the centre round which clustered cultivators, 
who tilled the soil under servile or semi-servile conditions. This 
system, according to his view, was taken over by the Anglo-Saxon 
mvaders, and the agrarian results of the Teutonic occupation may 
be summed up in the transfer of the Roman villa, with its servile 
labourers, to the conquerors. As a complete explanation of social 
development the legal theory, in spite of this historical support, 
seems inadequate. But whether the early stages of village com- 
munities reveal a movement from serfdom or originated in freedom, 
whether their relations to manors represent encroachments by the 
lord or advances by the serf, whether the rights of agrarian associa- 
tions underlay, or were acquired against, the manorial rights of the 
feudal baron — whether, in other words, the land-law of the noble 
became the land-law of the people, or the reverse — is here immaterial. 
Roughly and generally speaking, the immediate lordship of the land 
farmed by a village community, including the wastes and commons, 
was, after the Norman Conquest, vested in the lord of the manor, 
subject to regulated rights enjoyed by its members. 

On a manorial estate, at the beginning of the thirteenth century, 



THE MANORIAL BUILDINGS 5 

only the church, the manor-house, and perhaps the mill, rose out 
conspicuously. There were no detached, isolated farm-houses ; but 
the remaining buildings of the village, grouped together in a sort 
of street, were the homes of the peasantry, who occupied and 
cultivated the greater part of the land. At some little distance 
from the village stood the manor hall or grange, with its out- 
buildings, garden, and fishpond, surrounded by clay-built walls 
with thatched tops. The style and extent of the buildmgs depended 
on whether the house was the permanent or occasional residence 
of the lord ; they also varied with the importance of the manor, 
and the wealth of its ©"WTier. The house itself was built either of 
timber and clay, or of stone, for brickmaking was still a forgotten 
art. It often consisted of a single hall, plastered inside, open to 
the roof, and earth-floored, which served as court of justice, dining- 
room, and bedchamber. At one end of the central room was a 
stable ; at the other a chamber, kitchen, or larder. Below one 
part of the ground floor was a cellar ; above another part was, 
perhaps, a " solar," or parlour, approached by an outside staircase. 
If the manor was sufficiently important, there were probably added 
a detached building for the farm servants, and a chamber for the 
bailiff. The outbuildings consisted of bake-house, stables, dairy, 
cattle and j)oultry houses, granary, and dove-cote. Some of the 
oldest specimens of domestic architecture are granaries, like Hazel- 
ton or Calcot in Gloucestershire, or the dove-cotes which still in 
country districts mark the former sites of manor-houses. Repairs 
of the walls and buildings of the manor-house were among the 
labour services of the tenantry, who dug, tempered, and daubed 
the clay, cut and carted the timber, and gathered the straw or reeds 
for thatching. Where technical skill was needed they were aided 
by craftsmen, who either held land in reward for their special 
services, or, on the smaller manors, were hired for the occasion. 

Tufts of trees, conspicuous in the hedgeless expanse of arable 
land by which they were surrounded, marked the sites of villages, 
as they still do in the high table-land of the Pays de Caux. Under 
their shelter clustered the homes of the peasantry, clay-walled, 
open-roofed, earth-floored, chimneyless sheds, covered in with 
straw or reeds or heather, and consisting of a single room. Here, 
divided by a hurdle or wattle partition, Hved, not only the human 
inhabitants, but their cows, pigs, and poultry. Close by were the 
tofts and crofts of the open-field farmers, each with its miniature 



6 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

hay-rick and straw-stack ; and the cottages and curtilages of the 
cottagers, " fenced al aboute with stikkes." Here were the scanty 
gardens in which grew the vegetables, few but essential to the health 
of a population which hved almost entirely on salted meat and 
fish — often half-cured and half -putrid. These homesteads were in 
early times the only property held by members of the toAvnship in 
exclusive separate occupation. They were also, at first, the only 
permanent enclosures on the commonable land. But, as agri- 
culture advanced, pasture paddocks (" gerstuns " or " garstons ") 
for rearing stock, calves, or fattening beasts, or for the working 
oxen, which could not endure his " warke to labour all daye, and 
then to be put to the commons or before the herdsman," were 
enclosed in the immediate neighbourhood of the village. In these 
enclosures, or " happy garstons " as they were called at Aston 
Boges, were held the village merrymakings, the rush-bearings, the 
May games, the summerings at St. John's Eve, the public break- 
fasts, and the distribution of bread and ale in Rogation week. 

The land comprised in a thirteenth century manor was generally 
divided into four main portions, and, speaking generally, was cul- 
tivated on co-operative principles ; the demesne or " board " 
land, reserved for the lord's personal use, surrounding the manor- 
house, and forming the smaller portion of the whole ; the free land, 
occupied by freemen holding by military service, or by some 
form of fixed rent in money or in kind ; the unfree land, occupied 
by various classes of bondmen, holding by produce-rents and 
labour services which varied with the custom of the manor ; the 
common pastures and untilled wastes on which the tenants of the 
manor and the occupiers of certain cottages, in virtue of their 
holdings, fed their Hve stock. This right of pasture must be 
clearly distinguished from those rights which, at certain seasons of 
the year, were exercised by the associated partners over the cul- 
tivated arable and meadow lands of the village farm.^ Thus the 
lord's demesne, using the word in its narrower sense, might be 
kept in hand, or let on lease to free or unfree tenants, or thrown 

^ By " village farm " is meant the land in the village which was occupied 
by an association of partners, who were bound by the same rules of cultiva- 
tion, held intermixed strips of arable land over which at certain seasons the 
whole body exercised common rights, annually received allotted portions of 
meadow for hay, and enjoyed, in virtue of their arable holdings, the right to 
trnn out stock on the common pasture. This open-field system of farming 
is described pp. 23-27. 



LABOUR MORE NEEDED THAN MONEY 7 

into the village farm, or dealt with as to portions in each of these 
three ways. But whether the land was treated as a compact 
whole, Kke a modern home-farm, or whether the landlord, as a 
shareholder in the village association, allowed it to be cut up into 
strips and intermixed with other holdings, the demesne was mainly 
cultivated by the labour services of the unfree peasantry. The 
rest of the land of the manor, forming the larger portion of the 
cultivated area, was farmed by village partners, whose rent chiefly 
consisted in the labour, more or less definite in amount, which they 
were obhged to perform on the lord's demesne. 

In this method of cultivating a manorial estate there are many 
contrasts with the modern system. The three-fold division of the 
agricultural interests into landlord, tenant farmer, and wage- 
earning labourer was practically unknown. Landowner and tenant- 
labourer owned, occupied, and cultivated the soil, and the gradual 
relaxation of the labourer's tenure of the land, and the inter- 
position of the tenant farmer between the two existing classes, 
sum up the early social history of Enghsh farming. In the thirteenth 
century, muscles were more essential to the prosperity of the land- 
lord than money rents. The cultivators of the soil grew their 
produce, not for sale, but for their own consumption. Each manor 
or village was isolated and self-sufficing. Only in the neighbour- 
hood of towns was there any market for the produce of the farm. 
Few manufactured articles were bought. Salt, tar, iron (bought in 
four-pound bars), mill-stones, steel for tipping the edges of imple- 
ments, canvas for the sails of the wind-mill, cloths for use in the 
dairy, in the malthouse, or in the grange, together with the dresses 
of the inhabitants of the hall, and a few vessels of brass, copper, or 
earthenware, satisfied the simple needs of the rural population. 
Hands were therefore more required than money on manorial 
estates. If the manor was well stocked with labour, the land paid ; 
when the stock of labour shrank, the profits dwindled. It was in 
order to retain a sufficient supply of labour on the land that bond- 
men were restrained from leavmg the manor to assume the tonsure 
of the clerk or the flat cap of the apprentice, to become soldiers 
or to work outside the manor. Even their marriages were carefully 
controlled by licences. It was, again, in order to exact and super- 
vise the due performance of labour services that the lord of the 
manor maintained his large official staff — his seneschal, if he owned 
several manors, his steward, his bailiff, and the various foremen of 



8 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

the labourers, such as the reeve, the hayw^ard, the head-reaper, 
and the granger. But with the thirteenth century begins the 
practice of keeping estate accounts, in which the amount and cash 
values of the labour services are entered. Thus the uncertainty 
of villein-tenure was modified, and the means were prepared for 
commuting obhgations to work into their money equivalents. 
Already the causes were operating which hastened the process, and 
changed agriculture from a self-sufficing industry into a commercial 
system of farming for profit. Population was increasing ; trade 
was growing ; urban classes, divorced from rural pursuits, were 
forming ; means of communication were improving ; money taxes 
took the place of personal services ; the standard of hving rose ; 
^ coin was needed, not only to meet the demands of the government, 
y but to buy the luxuries of more civihsed life. 

The obhgations of the peasantry to cultivate the demesne varied, 
not only with local customs, but with the seasons. Their most 
important services were the autumnal, Lenten, and summer plough- 
ings on the three fields, into which the arable land of the demesne 
was generally divided. The crops grown were, as winter seeds, 
wheat and rye, and, as spring seeds, oats, barley, beans, peas, or 
vetches. In smaller quantities, flax, hemp, and saffron were locally 
raised in separate plots. Roots, clover and artificial grasses were 
still unknown. Rotations of crops, as they are now understood, were 
therefore impossible. The soil was rested by fallowing the one- 
half, or the one-third, of the arable land required by the two or 
the three course system. Red rivet, or a lost white variety, was 
then recommended for wheat-sowing on light land, red or white 
pollard for heavy soils, " gray " wheat for clays. But on the 
tenants' land , rye was the chief grain crop. It is the hardiest, 
grows on the poorest soils, makes the toughest straw. Rye was then 
the bread-stuff of the English peasantry, as it still is in Northern 
Europe. The flour of wheat and rye were often mixed together, 
and bread made in this form was called " maslin." ^ It retained 
its moisture longer than pure wheaten bread, and, as Fjnes Moryson 

^ Lat. mixtilio ; " mestilon," anon, author of Hosebonderie (thirteenth 
century) ; " miscellin," Harrison (sixteenth centurj'-) ; " massledine," Henry 
Best (1641); " mashelson," Yorkshire (1797). In The Compleat Farmer 
(1760) it is called " niaislen " ; but the writer says that it is " ill husbandry 
to grow wheat and rye together." Fitzherbert (1523) recommends rye and 
wheat to be sown together as the surest crop to grow and good for the husband- 
man's household. But he does not believe in the slowness of rye in ripening. 



THE THREE PLOUGHINGS 9 

says in his Itinerary (1617), was used by labourers because it " abode 
longer in the stomach and was not so soon digested with their 
labour." Wheat and rye were sometimes sown together. But as 
rye was slower to ripen, the better practice was to sow it alone and 
earher, lest, as Tusser (1557) writes, " rye tarry wheat, till it sheds 
as it stands." The mixed cultivation was, however, recommended 
as a cure for mildew, and for this reason prevailed in Yorkshire 
in 1797. Barley was the drink-corn, as rye was the bread-corn, 
of the Middle Ages. It was of two kinds. The head with two rows 
of grain seems to have been used exclusively for brewing ; the 
coarser four-rowed head, known as " drage," was used partly for 
brewing, partly for feeding pigs and poultry. Barley and oats 
were often sown together. In the North, oats were extensively 
cultivated ; but they were grey-awned, thin, and poor. In the 
Midlands and South of England they were comparatively rare on 
tenants' land. 

The fa llows were three times ploughed in preparation for wheat 
and rye. The seed began to be sown after Lammas Day (August 
12),i and at latest was completed by Hallowmas (November 1). 
For oats, beans, and peas, the land was ploughed and the seed sown 
between the Feast of Purification (February 2) and Easter. Oats 
were said to be best sown m " the dust of March." " On St. 
Valentine's Day cast beans in clay. But on St. Chad sowe good 
or bad." That is to say, the time for sowing beans was between 
February 14 and March 2. Barley came last. The land was 
ploughed and sown between Hoke-tide (the third Tuesday after 
Easter) and Pentecost. The ploughings were performed, and the 
teams sup phed and driven, partly, bv the_.serYants of the demesne, 
partly_by_the_tenants. Sometimes ploughmen seem to have been 
hired. The harro wings were similarly provided for, and the 
harrow, often a hawthorn tree, weighted on its upper side with 
logs, was supplied from the lord's waste. Here also harrowers 
seem to have been sometimes specially hired. In this case they 
possibly provided their own home-constructed implements with 
sharp points or teeth Hke the modern type of harrow. When the 
fallows were first broken up, as was then the practice, in March, 
or when the land was prepared for barley, the ground was often 
so hard that the clods had to be subsequently broken. For this 

1 The Julian calendar was in force. To make the dates correspond with 
those of the present Gregorian calendar, twelve days have to be added. 



10 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

purpose the ploughman, holding the principal hale of the plough 
in his left hand, carried in his right a " clotting beetle," or 
" maul," such as that which is depicted in the Cotton MSS. 
A " Dover-court beetle " was a necessary tool in the days of 
Tusser ; and Plot, whose Natural History of Oxfordshire appeared 
in the seventeenth century, recommends its use after the land was 
harrowed. 
./ The amount of wheat, rye, beans, and peas usually sown to the 
acre was only two bushels ; and of oats and, strangely enough, of 
barley, four bushels. T^g_.yield--Df_wheat_rarely._exceeded_j^^ 
fold, , or ten bushels to the acre ; that of the leguminous_jjrDps 
ra.nged |]com three- to six-fold, or from six to twelve bushels to the 
acre ; that of oats and barley varied from three- to four -fold, or 
from twelve to sixteen bushels to the acre. Considerable care was 
exercised in the choice and change of the seed-corn, which was 
often one of the produce-rents of the tenants. On the Berkeley 
Estates (1321) the seed was changed every second or third xe^^I > 
the upland^ corn being sown in the valej_ and vice versa. Wheat 
rarely followed a spring grain crop. If it did, it may be supposed 
that it received the greater part of the manure mixed with earth, 
Avhich the tenants carted from the demesne j^ard, and spread on 
the manor farm. From th e j^oint of view of manuring the land, 
the right of folding was a valuable ^^rivilege. Tenants, unless they 
purchased a licence to fold their sheep on the land they occupied, 
were often obliged to feed and fold their flock s on th e lord ^s land 
for fallow or in his own fold. Sometimes the herbage of the lord's 
land for fallow was sold to a sheep-master to be depastured on the 
land. Lime Avas used qn_heavy clays, or to destroy moss. The 
value of marl in improving the texture of sandy soils and some 
kinds of clays was appreciated. On the Berkeley Estates it was 
first used in the fortieth year of Hem-y III. But the cost was 
excessive. " Marl," says Fitzherbert,^ " is an excellent manure, 
and . . . exceeding chargeable." S£a_sand_ was used near the coast ; 
soot and even street refuse, were emploj^ed on home farms. Drain- 
age, except in the form of ridging the surface of wet soils, was 
rarely practised. Sometimes, as Palladius recommends (Book VI. 
St. 6), shallow trenches filled with gravel, stones, or hollow alder 
stems, and turfed over, were cut, and, on the manors belonging to 

^ Fitzherbert's Book of Husbandry, book i. c. 20 (ed. 1598). For agri- 
cultural literature, see Chronological List in Appendix I. 



MEDIAEVAL HARVESTINGS 11 

the Collegiate body of St. Paul's Cathedral, it was one of the labour 
services to clean out the ditches. Butthe science of deep dEainage 
qiade Jittle p rogress before the nineteenth century. Beans we re 
often dibbed ; but all other seed was sown broadcast. The actual 
labour of sowing was probably performed b y the lord's bailiff^ or 
the hayward, with his own hand, as, at the beginning of the last 
century, aU seed was sown by the farmer himself. The^ hoeing and 
the weeding of the crops were among the labour services of the 
tenants. In cleaning land the maxim was ancient : 

" Who weeds in May 
Throws all away," 

and the crops were generally weeded in June or the first few days 
of July. Walter of Henley^ (thirteenth century) gives St. John's 
Day (June 24) as the earliest date for cleaning the land. " If," 
he says, " you cut thistles fifteen days or eight before St. John's 
Daj^ for each one will come two or three." On a Suffolk manor, 
in the fourteenth century, sixty " sarclers," or weeders, were 
employed in one day, armed, if the weather was dry, with a hook 
or forked stick, and, in wet weather, with nippers. 

The meadows of the demesne were mown^ and the hay made^ 
carted, and put on the manorial ricks, by the labour services of 
the tenants. Tligy^ also reajoed, bound, gathered, loaded, carted, 
and stacked the corn cro£s in the lord's grange. They also threshed 
tbe corn, and Avinnowed it, unless, as was sometimes the case, the 
duty of winnowing fell to the dairywoman, or " Daye." If any 
corn w as sent for sale to the markets^ it was carried there by the 
labour services of the tenants, in their carts drawn by their teams. 
Harvestings in the Middle Ages were picturesque scenes of bustle 
and of merriment among the thousands to whom they meant the 
return of plenty. On 250 acres at Hawstead in Suffolk, towards the 
close of the fourteenth century, were grown wheat, oats, barley, 
peas, and " bolymong," a mixture of tares and oats. The grain 
crops were cut and housed in two days. On the first day appeared 
thirty tenants to perform their " bedrepes," and 244 reapers ; on 
the second day, the thirty tenants and 239 reapers, pitchers, and 
stackers. Many of this assembly were the smaller peasantry on 
the manor ; the rest were the lord's farm servants, together with 

1 Walter of Henley^s Husbandry, together with an anonymous Husbandry, 
Seneschaucie, and Robert Orosseteste'a Rules, ed. E. Lamond, 1890. For 
agricultural literatvu-e, see Chronological List in Appendix I. 



12 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

wandering bands of " cockers " or harvesters, who had already begun 
to travel the country at harvest time. A cook, brewer, and baker 
were hired to supply dinner at nine and supper at five. Reapers 
were organised in bands, or "setts," of five. The anonymous author 
of Hosebonderie ^ (thirteenth century) calculates that each band 
could reap and bind two acres a day. Barley and oats, as well as 
peas and beans, were generally mown ; rye and wheat were reaped. 
But the reaping, as in Roman times, seems to have consisted of 
two operations : the first was to cut the ears, the second to remove 
part of the straw for thatching, or to be used as forage for cattle, 
as fitter for strewing the sheep-house, folds, and yards, or as bedding 
for men. Often the value of the straw of thin short corn hardly 
paid for the expense of removal, and the stubble was either grazed 
or burned on the ground, or ploughed in. 
f The most important crops of the farm were the corn crops of 
/ w heat, rye, and barley, w hich were raised for human food and 
I drink. Their consumption, especially if the lord of the manor 
' Hved on the estate, was enormous. Dome stic households were 
considerable, and often only t he baififf was paid money wage s. 
Jlations were alsg_ajlowed to tenantswhen performing many of 
! thei r servi ces. Though the manual and team work of the tenants 
provided most of the labour of the farm, t he lord a lso employed 
a_large permanent staff of agricultural servants, most of whom were 
occupied in the care of live-stock. Such were the horseman or 
waggoner, oxherd or ploughman, cowherd, shepherd, swineherd, 
warrener, and keepers of hawks and dogs, whose wages were mostly 
paid m kind. There were, besides, other servants in husbandry, 
hired for special occasions, whose food and drink formed a large 
portion of their payment. The granary was, therefore, rarely so 
full that any surplus remained for sale. For such ready-money as 
h e nee ded^ the lord looked mainly to the £roduce of his liye;stock. 
For their consumption were growii the remaining crops — the hay, 
beans, peas, and oats ; though oats were not only used for human 
food, but in some districts were brewed into inferior beer. 

Horse-farms appear in some estate accounts ; but they probably 
suppHed the " great horse " used for mifitary purposes. On an 
ordinary farm the horses used for farm- work were mostly home- 
bred, and were divided into cart-horses, and — under the names of 
stotts, " affers," or " avers " — plough-horses. Colts, not needed 
^ Hosebonderie in Walter of Henley'' s Husbandry, ed. E. Lamond, 1890. 



PLOUGH-OXEN 13 

to keep up the supply, were sold. Plough-teams were_§.eldQm made 
up of horses only ; if horses were used at all, they were mixed mth 
oxen.__ But, as a rule, oxen were preferred to horses. Though 
horses w orked more quickly, when the ploughman allowed them to 
do so, — they pulled less steadily, and sudden strains severely 
tested the primitive plough-gear. On hard ground thej^ did less. 
work, and qnly when the land. was„ stony had they any advantage. 
Economical reasons further explain the preference for oxen. From 
St. Luke's Day (October 18) to April, both horses and oxen were 
kept in the stalls. During these twenty-five weeks neither could 
graze, and Walter of Henley calculates that the winter-k^ep of a 
horse cost four times that of an ox. Horses needed more attend- 
ance ; they required to be rubbed, curried, and dressed. Oxen 
were less liable to sickness than horses. The harness of the ox, 
mainly home-made from materials supplied on the estate, was 
cheaper to provide and repair'. Shod only on the forefeet, the 
shoeing of the ox cost less than that of the horse. When either 
horse or ox was past work, the profit of the one lay in his hide ; of 
the other, not only in his hide, but the larder : the ox was " mannes 
meat when dead, while the horse is carrion." Great care was 
taken both of horses and of oxen. In Seneschaucie ^ (thirteenth 
century) the duties both of the waggoner and oxherd are care- 
fully defined ; each was expected to sleep every night with his 
charges. 

Cattle were seldom _fatted^ even for the tables of the rich ; oxen 
were valued for their power of draught : cows for their milk. It 
may, indeed, be said that fresh butcher's meat was rarely eaten, 
and that, if it was, it was almost universally grass-fed. No winter- 
keep or feeding stuff was available ; not even carrots or parsnips 
were known. The„spmmons, generally unstinted, carried as much 
atock^as^ould keep skin and bone together in the ^\ inter, and the 
lord could not only turn out on them his own sheep and cattle, 
but license strangers for money pajrments to do the same. Even 
if the commons were stinted, the margin was too bare to mean 
abundance. The best pastures were either in the lord's own hands, 
and were saved by him at the expense of the commons, or were 
let out to individuals in separate occupations. Even among these 
superior feeding-grounds, there were few enclosures which would 
fatten a bullock. At the wane of the summer, the cattle had the 
^ In Walter of Henley's Husbandry, ed. 1900. 



14 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

aftermath of the hay meadows, and the stubble and hauhn of the 
arable lands. During this season they were at their best. They 
only survived the winter months in a state of semi-starvation on 
hay, straw, and tree-loppings. It w as, therefore, the practice at 
the end of June to draft the aged cows,jvvom-out oxen, and tooth- 
less shee^, or " crones," prepare them as far as possible for the 
butcher, slaughter them in the autumn, and either eat them fresh 
or throw them into the powdering tub to be salted for winter con- 
sumption. " For Easter at Martilmas (November 11) hange up a 
biefe " is the advice of Tusser. 

The dairy produce was a greater source of money revenue, though 
the home consumption of cheese must have been very large. But 
the management was necessaiily controlled, like the management 
of the stock, by the winter scarcity. The jdeld of a cow during 
the twenty-four weeks from the middle of April to Michaehnas was 
estimated at four-fifths of her total annual 3deld. Six to ten ewes 
gave as much milk as one cow ; but the best practice was to cease 
milking ewes at Lammas Day (August 12). Cheese-making formed 
an important part of the dairywoman's duties, and the purchase 
of the cloths and utensils used in its manufacture are a serious 
item in estate accounts. Cheese seems generally to have been 
made of skim-milk, though superior varieties were doubtless found 
on the lord's table. Most of the butter made in the summer months 
was either sold, or salted and preserved in pots and barrels for 
winter use.^ The butter-milk was either drunk, made into curds, 
or more rareh^ used to fatten pigs. The curds were eaten with wine 
or ale ; the Avhey, under the name of " whig," made a cool and 
wholesome summer drink. During the winter months, milk 
fetched three times its summer price, and was generally sold. For 
this, among other reasons, calves were timed to fall before autumn. 
In the scarce months of winter, the price obtained for milk during 
eight weeks was supposed to be worth more than the calf. Small 
open-field farmers must usually have sold their calves as soon as 
possible. The same practice prevailed on the demesne. The total 

^ Rogers, noticing that butter was sold by the gallon, seems to have con- 
cluded that it was melted {Six Centuries of Work and Wages, ed. 1890, pp. 
94-5). But it would seem from the thirteenth century writings of Walter of 
Henley and the anonymous author of Hosebonderie, that two pottles of butter 
made 1 gallon of 7 lbs., 2 gallons made 1 stone ; and 14 stone 1 wey. What- 
ever inference may be founded on the use of a liquid measure, it is discounted 
by the use of the pottle and the stone. 



SHEEP 15 

number of live-stock, including horses but not including sheep, sold 
from the manor of Forncett in thirteen years, between 1272 and 
1306, was 152.^ Out of this total 99 were calves. The cows 
of the demesne were under the care of a cowherd, who was required 
to sleep every night with, his charges in the sheds. 

Sheep were the sheet ancho r of iai'ining. But it was not for 
their mutton, or for their milk, or even for their skins, that they 
were chiefly valued. Already the mediaeval agriculturist took his 
seat on the wool-sack. As a marketable commodity, both at home 
and abroad, English long wool always commanded a j)rice. It 
was less perishable than corn, and more easily transported even on 
the worst jof^rpads. To the Flemis h weaver^ it was iadispensable, 
for Spanish wool could not be used alone, and the supply from 
Saxony was not as yet developed. The washing and shearing of 
sheep were among the labour services of the tenantry. Certain 
districts, especially Shropshire, Leominster, and the Cotswolds, 
were from very early times famous for the excellence of their wool. 
So far as its quahty depended on breed rather than on soil, some 
care, as evidenced by the higher prices paid for rams, was taken 
to improve the flocks. From Martinmas to Easter sheep were kept 
in houses, or in moveable folds of wooden hurdles, thatched at the 
sides and tops. During these months they were fed on coarse hay 
or peas -haulm, mixed with wheaten or oaten straw. For the rest 
of the year they browsed on the land for faUows, in woodland 
pastures, or on the sheep commons. But in the autumn they were 
not allowed to go on the ground, till the sun had purified the land 
from the " gell}^ or matty rime," which was supposed to engender 
scab. So also they were driven from the damp, low-lying grounds 
lest they should eat the white water-snails which our ancestors, 
suspected of breeding the rot. These two diseases made sheep- 
farming, in spite of its profits, a risky venture. The scab does not 
seem to have attacked sheep before the latter end of the thirteenth 
century ; but, from that time forward, the tar-box was essential 
to every shepherd. The rot is carefully treated by Walter of 
Henley, if he is the real author of the passage interpolated in the 
Bodleian manuscript of his work.^ The writer discusses the 

^ The Economic Development of a Norfolk Manor (1086-1565). By Frances 
Gardiner Davenport, pp. 33-35. 

2 Walter of Henley, 1890, ed. E. Lamond. The passage is given on pages 
37-8, and its genuineness is disputed in the Introduction, p. xxii. 



16 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

symptoms of the disease. White veins under the eyelids, wool 
that can be easily pulled away from the ribs, a skin that will not 
redden when rubbed, are signs of unsoundness. Another sign is 
when the November hoar-frost melts rapidly on the fleece, for the 
animal is then suffering from an unnatural heat. The losses of the 
flockmasters from the " murrain," to use the generic term for 
diseases employed by mediaeval writers, were so severe as to create 
another danger. The minute instructions against fraud given to 
the official staff show that shepherds not infrequently produced 
the skin, and explained the disappearance of the carcase by death 
from disease. " Let no sheep," says the author of Seneschaucie, 
" be flayn before it be seen and known for what fault it died." The 
value of the flock made the shepherd one of the most important of 
farm servants. He was required to be a patient man, " not over- 
hastj^" never to be absent without leave at " fairs, markets, 
wrestling-matches, wakes, or in the tavern," and always to sleep 
in the fold together with his dog. Later wTiters insist on the value 
of lameness in the shepherd, as a lame man v/as unlikely to over- 
drive his sheep. 

Swine were the almost universal Hve-stock of rich and poor. As 
consumers of refuse and scavengers of the village, they would, on 
sanitary grounds, have repaid their keepers. But mediaeval pigs 
profitfid jbheir owners much, and cost them little . It was a Glouces- 
tershire saying : 

" A swine doth sooner than a cowe 
Bring an ox to the plough." 

In other words, a pig was more profitable than a cow. For the 
greater part of the year pigs were expected to pick up their own 
living. When the wastes and woodlands of a manor were extensive, 
they were, except during three months of the year, self-supporting. 
They developed the qualities necessary for taking care of themselves. 
The ordina ry pigs of the Middle Ages were long, flat-sided, coarse- 
b_oned^^lop-eared, omnivorous animals, whose agilit}^ was_more 
valuable than their early maturit^^ Growth and flesh were the 
work of time : so also were thickened skin, developed muscles, and 
increased weight of bone. The styes were often built in the woods, 
whence the pigs were only brought to feed on the arable land after 
the crops were cleared, or, at times of exceptional frost, to subsist 
on the leavings of the threshing-floor. During most m onths of the 
year^ theyj-anged the woods for roots, wild pears, wild plums, crab 



PIGS AND POULTRY 17 

apples, sloes, haws, beech-mast, and acoms^ Only when the sows 
were farrowing, or when animals were being prepared for the rich 
man's table, were they specially fed. Pigs were fatted on inferior 
corn, especially coarse barley, peas, beans, skim- and butter-milk, 
or brewers' grains which were readily obtainable when nearly every 
household brewed its own barley beer. The amount consumed 
varied with the purpose intended to be served. The boar was fatted 
for the feast on ten times the grain bestowed in finishing ordinary 
animals for conversion into salted pork or smoke-dried bacon. 
Walter of Henley impHes that some attention was given to breed, 
as he recommends the use of well-bred boars. But the only quality 
on which he insists is that the animal should be able to dig, or, in 
other words, support itself. Modern ideas of purchasing corn for 
fattening purposes, or of converting into pork or bacon farm-pro- 
duce for which no ready market was available, scarcely entered 
into the heads of mediaeval farmers. On the contrary, they tell us 
that, if pigs were entirely dependent on the crops of the arable 
land, they could not be kept at a profit, when the wages of the 
swineherd, the cost of the grain consumed, and the damage done 
to growing crops had been taken into account. Some trade was, 
however, carried on in stores. This is proved by the records of 
Forncett manor {A Norfolk Manor, 1086-1565), which show that, 
in years when no pigs were kept, stores were bought and fatted for 
the larder. 

The poultry yard was under the care of the dairywoman, who 
sometimes seems to have had the poultry to farm at so much a 
head. Ducks are not mentioned in any of the mediaeval treatises 
on farming, though they appear m the Berkeley accounts in 1321 : 
guineafowl and turkeys were unknown. But the number of geese 
andjo^kj. and, on important estates, of pe^acocks and swans,__was 
large, and it was swollen by the produce-rents which were often 
paid in poultry and eggs. The author of Hosebonderie gives minute 
instructions as to the produce for which the dairywoman ought to 
account. " Each goose ought to have five goslings a year : " each 
hen was to answer for 115 eggs and seven chickens, " three of which 
ought to be made capons, and, if there be too many hen chickens, 
let them be changed for cocks while they are young, so that each 
hen may answer for three capons and four hens a year. And for 
five geese you must have one gander, and for five hens one cock." 
Besides the poultry yard, the dove-cote or pigeon-house was a 

B 



18 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

source of profit to the lord and of loss to the tenant. Prodigious 
numbers of pigeons were kept ; not only were they eaten, but 
their dung was prized as the most valuable of all manures. The 
privilege of keeping a pigeon-house was confined to manorial lords 
and jealously guarded, and every manor had its dove-cote. The 
story of the French Revolution shows how bitterly the peasants 
resented the plunder of their hard-earned crops by the lord's 
pigeons. Doubtless many a British peasant in mediaeval times 
was stirred to the same hostihty by the same nuisance. 

To the produce of the crops and the five-stock of the demesne 
must be added game, jailbits from the " conygarth " or warren, 
^der from the a^ppies, ^1 from the imts, honey and wax from the 
bee-hives, and sometimes gjcajies from the vineyards. Bee-keeping 
was an important feature of agricultural industry. The ancient 
proverb says : " He that hath sheep, swine, and bees, sleep he, 
wake he, he may thrive." Honey , besides being the only sugar, 
was invaluable in the still-room, and in the arts of the apothecary, 
physician, and " chirurgeon." It was an ingredient in mead and 
methegl}^!. It was used in embalming, in medicines, and in such 
decoctions as mulse water, oenomel, honey water, rodomel, or 
quintessence. Wax w as not only necessary for the cand les of the 
wealthy, but, fike honey, was largely used in mediaeval medicine. 
Mixed with violets, it was a salve : it was also one of the ingredients 
of " playsters, oyntementes, suppositories, and such fike." In 
some districts of England, vineyards formed part of the equipment 
of manors ; one was made by Lord Berkeley towards the close of 
the reign of Edward III., and his biographer suggests that he 
learned the " husbandry . . . whfist hee was prisoner in ffrance or 
a TraveUer in Spaine." Ee3K_great monasteries were without vine- 
yard^, which are mentioned thirty^eight~times in Domesday Book. 
It is not necessary to explain the disappearance of the vine by a 
change of climate. Wine was then often sweetened with honey 
and flavoured with blackberries and spices. Unless it came from 
abroad, it was rarely drunk in its pure state. It would, therefore, 
be unsafe to found any theory of cfimatic change upon the pro- 
duction of a fiquid which, in its natural state, may frequently have 
resembled vinegar. 

! ^esides the produ ce of the five-stock and crops of his demesne, 
t he lord of the man or had other sources"©! revenue. There were 
the fixed money or produce rents for their land paid by free tenan ts 



MANORIAL COURTS 19 

a nd bondmen, and the money payments which were sometimes ■/ 
accepted in lieu of labour services. Sales of timber and underwood, 
of turf, of herbage, licences to fold on the tenant's land, or Hcences 
to turn pigs into the lord's woods for beechmast or acorns, brought ^ 

in varying sums of money. The m ill at which the tenants ground *^ 
their corn was his property. Whether the miller was his servant, 
or farmed the receipts, a considerable proportion of the tolls went 
into the landlord's purse, though the cost of repairs and upkeep 
diminished the net profits. On some manors the oven in which 
the bread was baked was also the property of the lord of the manor. 
The fees and fines levied and settled by the maaprial courts in the 
course of a year were surprisingly large ; besides their administra- 
tive work, they were at once the guardians and the interpreters of 
the customs of the manor. The range of business administered 
in these courts, to which the tenants, both free and bond, were 
summoned as jurors, therefore embraced the domestic and financial 
affairs of the manor. Here were paid the fees for permission to 
reside outside the manor, to send children to school, to enter minor 
orders, to apprentice a son to a trade, or to marry a daughter. Here 
too were imposed the fines for slovenly work at harvest, for selling 
cattle without the lord's leave, for appropriating commons and 
wastes, for moving a neighbour's landmark, for neglecting to repair 
a cottage, for failing to discharge labour dues. Here too were 
fixed the contributions of the tenantry in money or labour towards 
the maintenance of the by-roads within the manor, and the fines 
for neglect of the duty to keep their surfaces in repair, to provide 
for their proper drainage, and to remove obstructions. Here also 
crime was punished ; offenders against life or property, as well as 
poachers, were mulcted ; wrangHng scolds and tavern-hunters were 
presented ; idlers were deprived of their holdings, and, as a last 
resort, expelled from the manor. Here too were fixed and levied 
the necessary contributions for the repair of the stocks, the pillory, 
the ducking-stool, and the pound. Here the miller would be fined 
for mixing rubbish with his flour, the baker for selling short weight, 
the brewer who adulterated his beer, the ale-wife and tavern-keeper 
who used false measures or mixed the drink they sold with peony 
seed, salt or garhck, the carrier for failing to deliver goods, the 
householder who harboured a stranger without a hcence. Here 
also were received and entered the fees of tenants for admission to 
their holdings, and the pa3Tnent of fines by sons who succeeded 



20 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

their fathers. Here, finally, on the sworn evidence of a body of 
jurors chosen from the tenants, were drawn up the surveys of the 
manor which recorded the exact condition of the estate — the total 
acreage of the demesne, and of each of the arable fields, of the 
meadows, the several pastures and the pasturage, and their annual 
values ; the state of the woods and the coppices, how much could 
be cut, and what they were worth yearly ; the acreage of the 
commons and the stock which they would carry ; the number of 
the hve-stock of various kinds ; the holdings of the free tenants, 
and their rents or services ; the holdings of the villeins, bordars, 
and cottagers, their services and money equivalents ; the profits 
of fisheries, mills, and incidental manorial rights ; the number of 
tenants who had finally commuted their services for fixed payments 
in cash, of those who, at the discretion of the lord, either rendered 
labour services or paid the money values, and of those who still 
/discharged their personal obhgations by actual work. 
. \/r^ \y- The remainder of the cultivated land of the manor was occupied 
) n(i' by tenants who paid rents in the form of mihtary or labour 
p' services, or money, or produce. Their farm practices , crops, 

and hve-stock were the same as those of the demesne, th ough th eir 
difficulties in combating winter scarcity were greater. Free tenants, 
whose tenure was mihtary service, or who had commuted the per- 
sonal obhgations for quit-rents, may sometimes have held land, 
hke modern farmers, in their exclusive occupation for individual 
cultivation. But the area of free land was comparatively small, 
and, as often as not, it was thrown into the village farm, occupied 
and cultivated in common by an agrarian association of co-partners, 
free and unfree. 

The varieties of tenure were great. So also were the varieties 
of social condition, and of the obligations by which the grades of 
those social conditions were governed. The distinctions between 
freemen and bon(mien"and between freehold and bond tenure had 
been, in the eye of the law, broad and deep. But custom had 
gradually intervened, and, with endless variety of practice, miti- 
gated the severity of legal theory. At law t he bondman 's position 
was subject to the lord's caprice. Unhke the freeman, he w as ti ed 
to th e^manor ; Ije^uld not leave it without licence from the lord, 
andjgayment of a fine._ H is se rvices were_uncertain in amount, 
and could be increased at the lord's pleasure. He paid a fine to 
marry his daughter, to send his son to school, to make him a priest 



RANKS IN RURAL SOCIETY 21 

or an apprentice. His lands and his goods and chattels might be 
seized by his lord, and when he died, his holding was given to 
whom the lord willed : his heir bought a hcence to inherit even his /'' 

moveables, and paid a fine when he was admitted to his father's j^ 
tenancy. In the thirteenth century, some at least of these condi- /x^ ix^ 
tions had been modified. The bondman's services had become 
fixed ; he could buy and sell, hold property, and dispose of his 
possessions by will. In theory he might still be at the mercy of 
thejord's^will : but custojm_had^sp_re^uiated the exercise of that 
will that it could no longer be capricious. 

Speaking broadly ,i th e jnass of the occupiers of land were, in " 
the eye of the law, unfree — bofidmen^who^ rented the shares-in .the 
land which they cultivated for themselves _ by. labaur servic es, on 
the lord's demesne. It was the amount a-nd certa inty of their 
services which determined the rank of Jbh e unfree . Sometimes the 
service was for the autumn only, or for autumn and spring work, 
whether on specified days or at particular periods ; sometimes of 
team work, sometimes of manual labour, sometimes of both ; some- 
times of week- work throughout the year, and either of one, two, or 
three days in each week. All their spare time was spent on their 
own holdings. Of this semi-se rvile class the villeins formed the 
aristocracy. The villein was neither a servant in husbandry nor 
a labourer for wages. He occupied land, and, like Chaucer's 
ploughman, had " catel " of his own. He_was_a__pa£tn^rin the 
village association, holding land of various amounts. In theory 
the size of his holding was based_ on the number of oxen w hich, in 
dj_scharge of hi s share of the joint liability, he could cont ribute to 
the manorial plough- team .^ A " hide " of land , which Professor 

^ Students of Professor Maitland's invaluable works will recognise the danger 
of broad and general statements, to all of which there are exceptions and 
modifications. 

^ The hide, or "carucate" of Domesday Book, or "ploughland," which aver- 
ages 120 acres, is sometimes said to have been as much land as a team of 8 oxen 
could plough in a year of 44 weeks of working days. But Walter of Henley, 
who is the authority for this statement, only tries to show that the area should 
be 160, or even 180, acres; he does not say that it actually was of this larger 
size. It does not seem likely that a fiscal unit varied with the nature of the 
soil, the weight of the plough, the condition of the team, the configuration 
of the land, and the temperament of the plougliman. It seems more probable 
that the hide or carucate was the definite area of 120 acres. Therefore a 
quarter of a carucate (30 acres) was the Domesday " virgate," which, under 
the name of " broad ox-gang," "husband-land," "farm-hold" or "farm" 
in the North, " yardland " in the Midlands, " full land " in Cambridgeshire, 
and " living " or " whole place " in Dorsetshire, formed the typical arable 



22 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

Maitland considers to have been " the land of a household," was 
treated as th e__ar£a_wMch a tea m_pf eight oxen could plough in a 
w orking year . Its extent may have varied. But, if the size was 
120 acres, then each hide consisted of four portions of 30 acres, 
called " virgates," or 8 portions of 15 acres, called " bovates." 
Thus the eighth part of the hide, or " bovate," was the land of one 
ox ; the fourth part of the hide, or " virgate," was the land of 
two oxen ; and the whole hide was the land of the complete team 
of eight oxen. It was on this basis that the tenemental land, in 
theory, and sometimes in practice, was divided. The__ty£ical 
holding of the villein was regulated by his capacity to furnish one 
or two oxen to the team. In other words, it was the ."xilgaite " 
or " yardland " of 30 acres , though one-ox holdings or " bovates " 
of 15 acres, and even half -ox holdings, were frequent. 

Villeins of the higher grade were generally distinguished from 
inferio£_Qrders of the semi-servile classes of the peasantry bx^the 
u ^size of their holdings in the village farm, by the certainty of their 
agricul tural servicgs on the demesne, and by the obhgation to d o 
team-wOTk rather than manual labour. The smaller the holding, 
the vaguer the labour obhgations, the more manual the work, — 
the lower was the grade of the villein. Besides the villeins there 
were other orders of bondmen — such as the rural handicraftsmen 
who were specially provided with land, and the bordars and co ttars, 
who r ented particular c ottages and garden ground , which often 
carried with them from two_to five acres. of _ arable land* t oget her 
with commo n rights . The two latter classes, besides their obligatory 
manual services, probably eked out their subsistence either as hired 
labourers on the demesne or by supplying the labour for which 
their wealthier neighbours were responsible. At the bottom of the 
social ladder were the serfs, to whom strict Jaw assigned no rights, 
though there were many varieties in their grades and position. 
Xheir chief bad ge of serfdom was the indeterm inaia-character of 
their services— the obhgation to labour in the manner, at the 
time, and for the wage, if any, which the lord directed. But 

holding of the common-field farmer. It was in fact as much as two oxen 
could plough in the working year. There were, however, also " one-ox men," 
whose holdings of 15 acres were an eighth of a carucate, and were called in 
Domesday Book "bovates," and at later stages "narrow oxgangs," or 
" half places." Smaller holdings consisting of half bovates, hke the " farthing 
holds " of Dorsetshire, " fardels " of Somersetshire, or " farnindells " of 
Gloucestershire, were by no means uncommon, and in practice there was no 
fixed area for the arable holdings of open-field farmers. 



THE OPEN ARABLE FIELDS 23 

the serf might occupy land, own cattle, and labour for himself. 
Thus, out of these various classes, free and unfree, sprang small 
landowners, tenant farmers, copyholders,^ and wage-earning 
labourers. 

Round the village, or " town," in which were gathered the home- 
steads of the inhabitants, lay_the_ open arab le fields, which were 
cultivated in common by the associat ed partners . Here were 
grown the crops which Shakespeare enumerates. These were the 

lands " of Ceres " : 

" — thy rich leas 
" Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats, and peas." ^ 

Here, at harvest time, the yellow of the corn crops alternated with 
the dark and hght greens of beans or peas and the brown of the 
bare fallows. This cultivated area, which included the driest and 
soundest of the land, w as hedgeless , open, and unenclosed, divided 
b y tnrf -grown b8<lks into fields- — t wo, three, or, rarely, four in 
number . If the former, o ne field lay fallow , while the other was 
under tillage for-co m. or beans, or peas. This dual system still 
prevailed near Gloucester in the nineteenth century, and existed 
at Stogursey in Somersetshire in 1879. But from theJSTorman 
Conquest^nward the three-field system was the mqst_preyalent. 
Down to the middle of the reign of George III. the arable land 
received the unvarjong triennial succession of wheat or rye, of 
spring crops such as barley, oats, beans, or peas, and of faUow. 

^ The term " copyholder " belongs to a later date. In the thirteenth 
century, practically all land held in villeinage, or in bondage, was held 
" according to the custom of the manor " (secundum consuetudinem manerii). 
The title was the sworn testimony of those who knew the custom. Land 
was said to be held not only " according to the custom of the manor," but 
" at the will of the lord " {ad voluntatem domini). By the thirteenth century, 
however, the will of the lord was no longer arbitrary, but could only be exer- 
cised according to manorial custom. 

Towards the end of the fourteenth century, another expression was added. 
Tenants were said to hold land " according to the custom of the manor by 
a copy of the entry on the court roll " (per copiam rotuli curice). Probably 
it had been found that, owing to the increased mobility of the rural popula- 
tion, oral testimony was not always available. Hence it became the practice 
to enter the incidents of the tenure of customary land on the rolls of the 
manorial court, and tenants were called copyholders, because the copy of the 
entry was the evidence of their title. The words " at the will of the lord " 
were still retained, and it has been suggested (The End of Villainage in England, 
by T. W. Page, American Economic Association, May, 1900, pp. 84-5) that 
the use of the words indicated an increased power on the part of the lord to 
abolish or alter the custom. 

'Tempest, Act iv. Sc. i. 60-1. 



24 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

/ During these seven centuries a more scientific rotation was in some 

districts adopted. Thus at Aston Boges, in Oxfordshire, a fourth 

course was interposed. But, speaking generally, open-field hus- 

/ bandry rather retrograded than advanced, as the disciphne of 

manorial officials relaxed. 

Each ot.the ihEee_8i.ra.ble fields_wa^subdivided .iitd3_fl^ 
^ shots, furlongs, or flats, separated from one another byuinploughed 
bush-grown tu rf balks , varjdng in width from two to sixteen feet.^ 
These fl ats wer e in turn cut up into pargJilel acre, half-acre, or 
quarter-acre, strips coinciding with the arrangement of a ploughed 
field into ridges and furrows. If the strips were acre strips, they 
were a furlong in length (220 yards) and 4 rods (22 yards) in breadth. 
Ploughmen still measure the acre in the same way as the open- 
field strip. Theoretically each flat was square, with sides of 40 
poles, containing 10 acres ; in practice every variety of shape and 
admeasurement was found. But, though the pole from which the 
acre was raised varied from the 13| feet of Hampshire to the 24 
feet of Cheshire, two sides of the flats always ran parallel. Thus 
each of the three arable fields resembled several sheets of paper, 
cut into various shapes, stitched together hke patch-work, and 
ruled with margins and lines. The separate sheets are the flats ; 
the margins are the headlands running down the flats at right angles 
to, and across the ends of, the parallel strips which are represented 
by the spaces between the fines. The lines themselves are the 
" balks " of unploughed turf, by which the strips were divided 
from each other. The strips appear under different names. For 
instance, in Scotland and Northumberland they were called " rigs " ; 
in Lincolnshire " selions " ; in Nottinghamshire " lands " ; in 
Dorsetshire " lawns " ; in North Wales " loons " ; in Westmor- 
land " dales," and their occupiers " dalesmen " ; in Cambridgeshire 
" balks " ; in Somersetshire " raps " ; in Sussex " pauls " ; else- 
where in southern counties " stitches." When the strips were 
stunted by encountering some obstacle, such as a road or river, 
they were called " butts." ^ Stray odd corners which did not fit 
in with the parallel arrangement of the fiats were " crustse," ^ that 

^ The balks appear under a variety of names, such as " raines," "reins," 
"walls," "meres," "lynches," " lantchetts," " landshares," "launchers," 
or " edges." 

* As in Newington Butts, 

^Registry of Worcester Priory (Camden Society), 1865, p. 18a. 



SCATTERED STRIPS IN OPEN-FIELDS 25 

is, pieces broken ofif, " pightels," " gores," ^ " fothers," ^ and 
" pykes," because, as Fitzherbert explains, they were " often brode 
in the one ende and a sharpe pyke in the other ende." 

T he arable fields wer e fenced against the liye-stock from seed- 
tii^e^^ojiarvest, and the intermixed strips were cultivated for the 
separate use of individuals, subJecTTo the compulsory j^otationby 
which each of the three "fields was cropped. On Lammas Day 
separate user ended, and common rights recommenced ; hence 
fields occupied in this manner were, and are, called Lammas Lands 
or " half-year lands." After harvest the hayward removed the 
fences, and the live-stock of the community wandered over the 
fields before the common herdsman, shepherd, or swineherd. The 
herdsman, in the reign of Henry VIII., received 8d. a year for 
every head of cattle entrusted to his care, and the swineherd 4d. 
for every head of swme. When sheep were folded on the cultivated 
land, each farmer provided, during the winter months, his own 
fold and fodder for his flock. Richard Hooker, while he held the 
country living of Drayton Beauchamp in Buckinghamshire, was 
found by two of his former pupils, " like humble and innocent Abel, 
tending his small allotment of sheep in a common field." That 
no occupier might find aU his land fallow in the same year, every 
one had strips in each of the three arable fields. If the holding 
of the open-field farmer consisted of thirty acres, there would thus 
be ten acres in each field. In other words, he would have ten 
acres under wheat and rye, ten acres under spring crops, and ten 
acres fallow. The same care was taken to make the divisions equal 
in agricultural value, so that each man might have his fair pro- 
portion of the best and worst land. To divide equally jthe good 
and bad, well and ill situated soil, the bundle of strips allotted in 
each of the three fields didjnot he Jogether^Jiui_was interinixe^ 
and scattered, . 

In the lowest part of the land — if possible along a stream — lay 
the " ings," " carrs," " leazes," or meadows, annually cut up into 
lots or doles, and put up for hay. These doles were fenced off to 
be mown for the separate use of individuals either from Candlemas 
(February 2), or, more usually, from St. Gregory's Day (March 12) 

^ As in Kensington Gore. 

2 Cf. Chaucer (Prologue, 530) : 

" A ploughman was his brother. 
That hadde y-lad of dong ful many a f other," 
where the word is generally taken to mean a load. 



26 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

to Midsummer Day ; from July to February, or later, they were 
open, common pasturage. Sometimes the plots, which varied in 
size from a half-acre downwards, went with the arable holdings, so 
that the same man annually received the same portion of meadow. 
Sometimes the plots were balloted for every year. Each lot was 
distinguished by a name, such as the cross, crane's foot, or peel, i.e. 
baker's shovel, which will often explain puzzHng field-names. 
Corresponding marks were thrown into a hat or bag and drawn by 
a boy. This balloting continued up to the last century in Somerset- 
shire, and still continues at Yarnton in Oxfordshire.^ After the 
hay had been cut and carried, the meadows reverted to common 
occupation, and were grazed indiscriminately by the Hve-stock of 
the village, till they were again fenced ofif, allotted, and put up 
for hay. 

On the outskirts of the arable fields nearest to the village lay 
one or more " hams " or stinted jDastures, in ^vllich a regulated 
number of hve-stock might graze, and therefore supplying superior 
feed. Brandersham, Smithsham, Wontnersham, Herdsham, Con- 
stable's Field, Dog Whipper's Land, Barber's Furlong, Tinker's 
Field, Sexton's Mead, suggest that so.nietimes_special allotments 
were made to, those who practised trades__of such general utihty 
as the stock-brander, the blacksmith, the mole-catcher, the cow- 
herd, the constable, the barber, the tinker, and the sexton. The 
dog-whipper's usefulness is less obvious ; but possibly he was 
employed to prevent the Hve-stock from being harried by dogs. 
Even the spiritual wants of the village were sometimes suppHed in 
the same way. Parson's Close and Parson's Acre are not uncommon. 
It is significant that no schoolmasters seem to have been provided 
for by allotments of land. 

Besides the open arable fields, jthe meadows, and the stinted 
hams^ ther^ were lEe common pastures, fringed by the untilled 
wastes which were left in their native wildness. These wastes pro- 
vided fern anST heather for litter, bedding, or thatching ; small 
wood for hurdles ; tree-loppings for winter browse of Uve-stock ; 
fuzre and turves for fuel ; larger timber for fencing, implements, 
and building ; mast, acorns, and other food for the swine. Most 
of these smaller ri ghts were made the subjeQt,i}f £xed-annuai pay- 
ments to the manorial lord ; but the right of cutting fuel was 
generally attached to the occupation, not„ only of -arable land, but 

^ As described by R. H. Gretton in The Economic Journal for March, 1912. 



THE COMMON-PASTURES 27 

of cottages. The most important part of these lands were the / 

common pastures, which were often the only grass that arable 
farmers could command for their live-stock. They therefore 
form ff{^ . an integral and essential part of the village farrqu_ No 
rights were exercised^pon them by the general pubhc. On the 
contrary, the commons were most jealously guarded by the privileged 
commoners against the intrusion or encroachments of strangers. 
The agistment of strange cattle or sheep was strictly prohibited : 
commoners who turned out more stock than their proper share 
were " presented " at the manorial courts and fined ; cottages 
erected on the commons were condemned to be pulled down ; the ^ 
area within which swine might feed was carefully hmited, and the 
swine were to be ringed.^ T hose w ho enjoyed the grazing rights 
were the occjjpiers of arabl e land, whose powers of turning out 
stock were, in theory, proportioned to the size of their arable 
holdings, and th g_occupiers of certain cottages, which commanded 
higher rents in consequence of the privilege. It was on these 
commons that the cattle and sheep of the village were fed. Every 
morning the cattle were collected, probably by the sound of a horn, 
and driven to the commons by the village herdsman along drift 
ways, which were enclosed on either side by moveable or permanent 
fences to keep the animals from strajdng on to the arable land. In 
the evening they were driven back, each animal returning to its 
own shelter, as the herd passed up the village street. Similarly, 
the sheep were driven by the village shepherd to the commons by 
day, and folded at night on the wheat fallows. Sheep were the 
manure carriers, and were prized as much for their folding quality 
as for their fleeces. In some districts they were kept almost 
entirely for their agricultural value to the arable land. Until the 
winter they were penned in the common fold on the fallows or the 
stubbles. After the fallows had been ploughed, and before the 
crops on the other fields were cleared, they had only the commons. 
During winter each commoner was obhged to find hay for his 
sheep and his own fold, the common shepherd penning and folding 
them so as gi-adually to cover the whole area. 

The open-field system, thus briefly sketched with its arable, 
meadow, and permanent pasture land, prevailed at some time or 

^ The Regiilations for " Common Rights at Cottenham and Stretham " 
are printed by Dr. Cunningham in the Camden Miscellany, voh xii. (1910), 
pp. 173-296. 



28 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

other throughout England, except perhaps in the south-west. The 
following descrijjtion of the crofters' holdings in Skye in 1750 
might have been written, with but few alterations, of half the cul- 
tivated area of England in the eighteenth century : "A certaia 
number of tacksmen formed a copartnery and held a tract of land, 
or township, for which they paid tribute to the chief, and each 
member was jointly and severally responsible. The grazing was 
in common. All the arable land was divided into ridges, assigned 
annually by lot among the partners. Each might have a dozen 
or more of these small ridges, and no two contiguous except by 
accident ; the object being to give each partner a portion of the 
better and inferior land. The copartner appears to have had 
cotters under him, for whose work he paid." The prevalence of 
the system may still be traced with more or less distinctness in 
rural England. The counties in which it was most firmly established 
are counties of villages, not of scattered farmsteads and hamlets. 
Turf balks and lynches record the time when " every rood of ground 
maintained its man." Irregular and regular fences, narrow lanes 
and wide highways, crooked and straight roads, respectively sug- 
gest the piecemeal or the wholesale enclosure of common fields. 
The waving ridges on thousands of acres of ancient pasture still 
represent the swerve of the cumbrous village plough with its team 
of eight oxen. The age of the hedgerow timber sometimes tells 
the date of the change. The pages appropriated to hedges by 
agricultural \mters of the eighteenth century indicate the era of the 
abolition of open fields, and the minuteness of their instructions 
proves that the art of making hedges was still in its iafancJ^ The 
scattered lands of ordinary farms, compared "with the compact 
" court," " hall," or " manor " farm, recall the fact that the lord's 
demesne was once the only permanent enclosure. The crowding 
together of the rural population in villages betrays the agrarian 
partnership, as detached farmsteads and isolated labourers' dwellings 
indicate the system by which it has been supplanted. 

Accurate comparison between the conditions of the rural popula- 
tion in the thirteenth and twentieth centuries seems impossible. 
Calculations based on the prices of commodities, involving, as they 
must, the translation of the purchasing power of mediaeval money 
into its modern equivalent, are necessarily guess-work. They are 
also to a great extent irrelevant, for few of the necessaries of life 
were ever bought by the cultivators of the soil, and whether the 



THE SELF-SUPPORTING VILLAGES 29 

com that they raised was fetching 3s. or 6s. the quarter in a distant 
market made little difference to the inhabitants of villages. They 
grew it for their own consumption. Owing to difficulties of com- 
munication, every village raised its own bread-supply. Hence a 
great extent of land, which from a farming point of view formed an 
excessive proportion of the total area, was tilled for corn, however 
unsuited it might be for arable cultivation. As facilities of transport 
increased, this necessity became less and less paramount. Land 
best adapted to pasture no longer required to be ploughed, but 
might be put to the use for which it was naturally fitted. Improve- 
ments in means of communication were thus among the changes 
which helped to extinguish village farms. But for the time, and 
so long^as the open-field sy stem jrevaJJbd, farming continued to be 
in the main a seH-sufficingJndustry^ Except for the payment of 
rent, litt le coin wa s needed or used in rural districts. _ Parishes 
till the middle of the eighteenth century remained what they were 
in the thirteenth century — isolated and self-supporting. The 
inhabitants had little need of communication even with their 
neighbours, still less with the outside world. The fields and the 
live-stock provided their necessary food and clothing. Whatever 
wood was required for building, fencing, and fuel was suppHed from 
the wastes. Each village had its mill, and nearly every house had 
its oven and brewing kettle. Women spun and wove wool into 
coarse cloth, and hemp or nettles into Hnen ; men tanned their own 
leather. The rough tools required for cultivation of the soil, and 
the rude household utensils needed for the comforts of daily life, 
were made at home. In the long winter evenings, farmers, their 
sons, and their servants carved the wooden spoons, the platters, 
and the beechen bowls. They fitted and riveted the bottoms to 
the horn mugs, or closed, in coarse fashion, the leaks in the leathern 
jugs. They plaited the osiers and reeds into baskets and into 
" weeles " for catching fish ; they fixed handles to the scythes, 
rakes, and other tools ; cut the flails from holly or thorn, and 
fastened them with thongs to the staves ; shaped the teeth for 
rakes and harrows from ash or willow, and hardened them in the 
fire ; cut out the wooden shovels for casting the corn in the granary ; 
fashioned ox -yokes and bows, forks, racks, and rack-staves ; 
twisted willows into scythe-cradles, or into traces and other harness 
gear. Travelling carpenters, smiths, and tinkers visited detached 
farmhouses and smaller villages, at rare intervals, to perform 



30 THE MANORIAL SYSTEM 

those parts of the work which needed their professional skill. But 
every viUage of any size found employment for such trades as those 
of the smith and the carpenter, and the frequency with which 
" Smiths Ham " appears among field names suggests the value 
which the inhabitants attached to the forge and the anvU. Mean- 
while the women plaited straw or reeds for neck-collars, stitched 
and stuffed sheepskin bags for cart-saddles, peeled rushes for 
wicks and made candles. Thread was often made from nettles. 
Spinning-wheels, distaffs, and needles were never idle. Home- 
made cloth and linen supphed all wants. Flaxen linen for board- 
cloths, sheets, shirts or smocks, and towels, as the napkins were 
called, on which, before the introduction of forks, the hands were 
wiped, was only found in wealthy houses and on special occasions. 
Hemp, in ordinary households, supphed the same necessary articles, 
and others, such as candle-wicks, in coarser form. Shoe- 
thread, halters, stirrup-thongs, girths, bridles, and ropes were 
woven from the " carle " hemp ; the finer kind, or " fimble " hemp, 
supphed the coarse hnen for domestic use, and " hempen home- 
spun " ^ passed into a proverb for a countryman. Nettles were 
also extensively used in the manufacture of Hnen ; sheets and table- 
cloths made from nettles were to be foimd in many homes at the 
end of the eighteenth century. The formation of words hke spin- 
ster, Webster, lyster, shepster, maltster, brewster, and baxter 
indicated that the occupations were femmine, and show that 
women spun, wove, dyed, and cut out the cloth, as well as malted 
the barley, brewed the ale, and baked the bread for the family. 

1 Midsummer-Night'' 8 Dream, Act iii. Sc. 1. 



FEUDAL BARONS AT CORN-MARKETS 31 



CHiVPTER II. 
THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR. 1300-1485. 

Great landlords as farmers : horrors of winter scarcity : gradual decay of 
the manorial system and the increased struggle for life : aspects of the 
change : common rights over cultivated and uncultivated land : tendency 
towards separate occupation : substitution of labour-rents for money- 
rents ; the Black Death ; Labour legislation, and its effect ; Manor of Castle 
Combe and Berkeley Estates ; new relations of landlords and tenants 
substituted for old relations of feudal lords and dependents ; tenant- 
farmers and free labourers ; leases and larger farms ; increase of separate 
occupations : William Paston and Hugh Latimer ; wage-earning labourers ; 
voluntary siirrender of holdings ; freedom of movement and of contract. 

Changes in farming practices are always slow ; without ocular 
demonstration of their superiority, and without experience of 
increased profits, new methods are rarely adopted. In the Middle 
Ages agriculture was a self-supporting industry rather than a 
profit-making business. The immediate neighbourhood of large 
towns created markets for the surplus produce that remained after 
satisfying the needs of the cultivators of the soil. But remoter 
villages contained neither buyers of produce nor pioneers of improve- 
ments. Edward I. was a gardener, and Edward II. a farmer, 
horse-breeder, and thatcher. These royal tastes may have set the 
fashion. Here and there great lay landowners, as well as great 
ecclesiastics, actively interested themselves in farming progress. 
Thomas, first Lord Berkeley, who held the family estates from 1281 
to 1321, encouraged his tenants to improve their land by marling, 
or by taking earth from the green highways of the manors. Another 
famous farmer was his grandson, the third Lord (1326-61). Feudal 
barons are rarely represented as fumbling m the recesses of their 
armour for samples of corn. But " few or noe great f aires or 
marketts were in those parts, whereat this lord was not himself, as 
at WeUs, Gloucester, Winchcomb, Tetbury, and others ; where also 
hee new bought or changed the severall grains that sowed his 



32 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

arrable lands." ^ These mediaeval prototypes of " Farmer George," 
of " Turnip " Townshend, or of Coke of Norfolk were rare. Few 
of the baronial aristocracy verified the truth of the maxim that 
"the master's foot fats the soil." The strenuous idleness or the 
military ardour of youthful lords was generally absorbed in field 
sports and martial exercises — in tilting at the ring, in hawking, 
hunting the buck, or lying out for nights together to net the fox. 
Grown to man's estate, they congregated for a month at a time at 
" tylts, tumaments, or other hastiludes," or exchanged the mimicry 
of war for its reahties in France, or on the borders of Scotland and 
Wales. Most of the lay barons rebelled against the minute and 
continuous labour of farming, and this contempt for bucolic life 
may be illustrated from heraldry. Its emblems are drawn from 
sport, war, mythology, or rehgion. Products and implements of 
husbandry are despised, unless, hke the " garb " or sheaf of the 
Washboumes, the scythe of the Sneyds, or the hay-wains of the 
Hays, they had been ennobled by martial use. 

Few landowners, except the wealthiest, had as yet built per- 
manent residences on their distant estates. Content with temporary 
accommodation, they travelled with their households and retinues 
from manor to manor, and from farmhouse to farmhouse, in order 
to consume on the spot the produce of their fields and hve-stock. 
It was the practice of the first Lord Berkeley to go " in progress 
from one of his Manor and farmehouses to an other scarce two miles 
a sunder, making his stay at each of them . . . and soe backe to 
his standinge houses where his wife and family remayned . . . 
sometymes at Berkeley Castle, at Wotton, at Bradley, at Awre, 
at Portbury, And usually in Lent at Wike by Arhngham, for his 
better and neerer provision of Fish." His example was followed 
by his successors. But in the frequent absences of manorial lords 
on military service at home or abroad, their wives played important 
parts in rural life. Joan, wife of the first Lord Berkeley, "at no 
tyme of her 42 yeares mariage ever travelled ten miles from the 
mansion houses of her husband in the Countyes of Gloucester and 
Somersett, much lesse humered herselfe with the vaine deHghts of 
London and other Cities." She spent much of her time in super- 
vising her " dairy affairs," passing from farmhouse to farmhouse, 
taking account of the smallest details. The family tradition 

^ The Lives of the Berkeleys, by John Smyth of Nibley, ed. Maclean (1883), 
vol. i. p. 300. 



THE MONKS AS FARMERS 33 

lingered long. The same housewifely courses were followed by the 
widowed Lady Berkeley, who administered the estates during her 
son's minority in the reigns of Henry VIII. and Edward VI., and 
died in 1564. At all her country houses she " would betimes in 
Winter and Somer mornings make her walkes to visit her stable, 
bames, dayhouse, pultry, swinetroughs, and the hke." Her 
daughter-in-law's tastes were different. She was a sportswoman, 
deUghting in buck-hunting, skilled with the cross-bow, an expert 
archer, devoted to hawking, commonly keeping " a cast or two of 
merlins, which sometimes she mewed in her own chamber, which 
falconry cost her husband each yeare one or two gownes and kirtles 
spoiled by their mutings." Well might the elder lady " sweare, by 
God's blessed sacrament, this gay girle wUl begger my son Henry ! " 

Great ecclesiastics made their progresses from manor to manor 
like the lay barons, and for the same reason. But in many instances 
monks were resident landowners, and by them were initiated most 
of the improvements which were made in the practices of mediaeval 
farming. They studied agriculture in the hght of the writings of 
Cato, Varro, and Columella : the quaintly rhjnned Enghsh version 
of Palladius was probably the work of an inmate of a rehgious house 
at Colchester ; the Rules for the management of a landed estate 
are reputed to be the work of one of the greatest of thirteenth 
century churchmen, Robert Grosteste, Bishop of Lincoln ; Walter 
of Henley is said to have been a Dominican, and manuscripts of his 
work, either in the original Norman French or translated into English 
or Latin, found a place in many monastic Hbraries. Throughout the 
Middle Ages, both in England and France, it was mainly the influence 
of the monks which built roads and bridges, improved hve-stock, 
drained marshes, cleared forests, reclaimed wastes, and brought 
barren land into cultivation. 

Large improvements in the mediaeval methods of arable farming 
were impossible until farmers commanded the increased resources 
of more modem times. There was little to mitigate, either for 
men or beasts, the horrors of winter scarcity. Nothing is more 
characteristic of the infancy of farming than the violence of its 
alternations. On land which was inadequately manured, and 
on which neither field-turnips nor clovers were known till centuries 
later, there could be no middle course between the exhaustion of 
continuous cropping and the rest-cure of barrenness. The fallow 
was un veritable Dimanche dccorde d la terre. As with the land, so 

c 



34 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

with its products. Famine trod hard on the heels of feasting. It 
was not only that prices rose and fell with extraordinary rapidity ; 
but both for men and beasts the absolute scarcity of winter always 
succeeded the relative plenty of autumn. Except in monastic 
granges no great quantities of grain were stored, and mediaeval 
legislators eyed corn-dealers with the same hostility with which 
modem engineers of wheat comers are regarded by their victims. 
The husbandman's golden rule must have been often forgotten — 
that at Candlemas half the fodder and all the corn must be 
untouched. Even the most prudent housekeepers found it difficult 
always to remember the proverbial wisdom of eating within the 
tether, or sparing at the brink instead of the bottom. Many, Uke 
Panurge, eat their com in the blade. Equally violent were the 
alternations in the employment afforded by mediaeval farming. 
Weeks of feverish activity passed suddenly into months of com- 
parative indolence. Winter was in fact a season to be dreaded 
ahke by the husbandman and his cattle, and it is not without good 
cause that the joyousness of spring is the key-note of early EngHsh 
poetry. 

Under the conditions which prevailed in the fourteenth and 
fifteenth centuries, Httle advance in farming practices could be 
expected. During the greater part of the period, therefore, the 
history of agriculture centres round those economic, social, and 
poHtical changes which shaped its future progress. Under the 
pressure of these influences the structure of feudal society was 
undermined. The social mould, in which the mediaeval world had 
been cast, crumbled to powder under a series of transformations, 
which, though they worked without combination or regularity, 
proved to be, from the latter half of the fourteenth century onwards, 
collectively and uniformly irresistible. From within, as well as 
from without, the manor as an organisation for regulating rural 
labour and administering local affairs was breaking up. As money 
grew more plentiful, it became more and more universally the basis 
on which services were regulated. Commerce, as it expanded, 
created new markets for the sale of the produce of the soil. ParHa- 
ment assumed new duties ; the Royal Courts of Justice extended 
their jurisdiction ; and, as a consequence, manorial courts lost some 
of their importance in matters of local self-government. Land was 
beginning to be regarded as a source of income, not of mihtary'1 
power. As landowning became a business and farming a trade, 



THE NEW STRUGGLE FOR LIFE 35 

agricultural progress demanded less personal dependence, a freer 
hand, a larger scope for individual enterprise. The foundations off 
feudalism were thus shaken, though the Hundred Years' War main- 
tained its superstructure intact. It is this contrast between reahty 
and appearance which gives an air of hollowness and artificiahty to 
the splendour of the reign of Edward III. 

The break-up of the manorial system accompanied the transition 
from an age of graduated mutual dependence towards an age of 
greater individual independence. It meant the removal of restric- 
tions to personal freedom, the encouragement of individual enter- 
prise, the estabHshment of the principle of competition in determining 
both money rents and money wages. From another point of view 
the results were not entirely advantageous. Against the older 
system it might be urged that it created a lack of opportunity which 
caused local stagnation. In its favour might be pleaded that it 
maintained a certain level of equaHty among the households in 
village communities, presided over by the lord of the manor. Now, 
however, the struggle for life becomes intensified ; the strong go to 
the front, the weak to the wall ; for one man who rises in the social 
scale, five sink. Here, one prospers, laying field to field, adding 
herd to herd and flock to flock. Here, others seU their Hve-stock, 
yield their strips of land to their more enterprising neighbour, and 
become dependent upon him for employment and wages. From 
the fourteenth century onwards the agricultural problem of holding 
the balance even between the economic gain and social loss of 
agricultural progress has puzzled the wisest of legislators. 

The manorial organisation of labour suffered no sudden or uni- 
versal collapse, due to any improvements m the methods or altera- 
tion in the aims of farming. It rather underwent a gradual and 
local decay which originated in economic, social, and pohtical causes, 
and proceeded most rapidly in the neighbourhood of trading centres 
or sea-ports. It would be inaccurate to attempt to divide this 
process mto successive stages, because they always overlapped, 
were generally simultaneous, and were often almost complete on 
one manor before they had begun on another. But from one point 
of view, the movement increased the number of holdings which were 
separately occupied ; in another aspect, it exchanged labour ser- 
vices for their cash values, and altered the relations between feudal 
lords and their retainers into those of employer and employed, and 
of the letter and the hirer of land ; in another, it appHed principles 



36 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

of competition to money rents and money wages ; in another, it 
encouraged enterprising tenants to I'ecognise that the best results 
of farming could only be obtained on compact holdings, large enough 
for the employment of money as well as of labour. 

The tendency towards the separate occupation and individual 
management of land had already begun, though it was most marked 
on the new land which was brought into cultivation. On the ancient 
arable land it was checked by the rights of common which were 
enjoyed, not only over the waste, but over the open arable fields. 
In their origin these rights were arable and attached only to arable 
land. Each occupier of an arable holding was entitled to graze on 
the common pastures the horses and oxen required for his tillage 
operations, and to feed the sheep needed for manuring his cultivated 
land. Without this right the associated partners in the common 
venture of farming would have had no means of supporting their 
beasts after the crops were sown. Common rights of pasture were 
therefore integral portions of, and essential adjuncts to, the ancient 
tillage system.^ No rights of common of pasture could be claimed 
by the general pubhc. The only persons by whom they could be 
acquired and enjoyed were the occupiers of arable holdings. It was 
as occupiers of portions of the tilled land, which was in fact or in 
theory attached to their homes, that cottagers claimed and exercised 
grazmg privileges. On most manors three distinct kinds of common 
rights existed. The first kind is, in this connection, unimportant, 
though its creation marks an improvement in agricultural practices 
and a step towards the break-up of the early open-field system. It 
arose when the partners in a village farm agreed, Avith the sanction 
of the lord of the manor, to set aside a portion of their joint arable 
holdings for pasture, to be used m common in a " stinted " or 
regulated manner. " There is commonly," says Fitzherbert,^ " a 
common close taken in out of the common fields by tenants of the 
same towne, in which close every man is stinted and set to a cer- 
taintie how many beasts he shall have in common." The second 
class of common of pasture consisted of rights enjoyed by the 
partners of the agrarian association over the whole cultivated area 
of the village farm, both over the arable portion that lay fallow in 
rotation, and over all the other arable lands and meadows, after 
the crops had been cleared and before the land was again sown or 

^ See chapter i. pp. 23-27. 

2 The Boke of Surveyeng and Improvementea (1523), ed. 1539, chap. ix. 



VARIOUS RIGHTS OF COMMON 37 

put up for hay. The third kind of common of pasture consisted 
of rights over that part of the manor which was neither arable nor 
meadow, — the outlying portions, which were left in their natural 
condition, — the pastures, moors, wastes, woods, and heaths, which 
had never been tilled. These rights were attached to the arable 
holdings of manorial tenants, and to the occupation of particular 
cottages on the manor, and, when the strictness of the ancient 
system relaxed, might also be acquired by neighbours and strangers 
who neither Uved nor held land within the manor. " In these 
commons," says Fitzherbert,^ " the lord should not be stinted 
because the whole common is his own." 

Rights of common of pasture over cultivated or commonable 
land, under the second heading, were enjoyed by the partners in 
the village farm, were exercised in virtue of their arable holdings, 
were limited to the extent of the farm, and could only be extinguished 
by the agreement of the co-partners. But if the lord of the manor, 
as a partner in the farm, had allowed portions of his demesne to be 
intermixed with the strips of his tenants, he could withdraw those 
portions at will, even though their withdrawal diminished the com- 
monable area of cultivated land. With this exception, land subject 
to these rights of common could not be freed by any individual 
tenant, unless the main body of his farming partners assented. 

Rights of common of pasture over the untilled land, under the 
third heading, were at first confined to the occupiers of arable 
holdings on the manor. In process of time, however, they were 
less narrowly hmited. They could not be enjoyed by a landless 
pubhc ; but they might be exercised by persons hving both within 
and without the manor. In the case of persons Hving within the 
manor, the enjoyment of common rights belonged to the occupation 
of arable holdings or of particular cottages to which arable land had 
been or was attached. In the case of persons hving outside the 
manor, rights might be acquired by neighbours and strangers, 
either by direct grant from the lord of the manor, or, through his 
sufferance, by long usage. As a general rule, the number of Uve- 
stock which each manorial tenant or freeholder could pasture on 
the wastes was fixed, or capable of being fixed, in proportion to his 
holding. Vaguer rights were acquired by neighbours and strangers, 
and it was in these cases mainly that the lord's right of enclosure 
was successfully resisted. At common law it seems that, against 
^ Surveying, chap. iv. 



38 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

his own customary tenants, the lord of the manor could always 
enclose the wastes at pleasure. Whether before 1236 he had the 
same power at common law against the free tenants of the manor is 
disputed. Be this as it may, the Statute of Merton ^ in that year 
empowered the lord of the manor to enclose against his free tenants, 
provided enough pasture was left to satisfy his previous grants of 
rights of common. Fifty years later, the Statute of Westminster ^ 
(1285) extended the lord's right of enclosure to the case of those 
neighbours and strangers who had acquired grazing rights, subject 
to the same condition of sufficiency of pasture. Practically the 
existence of rights of common of pasture only prevented enclosures 
when the rights were enjoyed by the associated body of tenants 
over one another's cultivated and commonable land, or when 
general rights, vaguely expressed, had been acquired by strangers 
or neighbours over the untilled wastes of the lord of the manor. 
Unless a custom to the contrary could be estabHshed, an enclosure 
of untilled waste by the lord of the manor would be upheld in the 
law courts, provided that the number of Hve-stock which could be 
turned out by the commoners was certain or capable of being 
ascertained, and that enough pasture was left to satisfy the grazing 
rights. 

As early as the end of the twelfth century, landlords had begun 
to wi'thdraw their demesne lands from the village farm, to con- 
sohdate, enclose, and cultivate them in separate OAvnership. They 
had also pared the outskirts of their woods and chases, reclaimed 
and enclosed these " assart " lands, as they were called, and either 
added them to their demesnes or let them in several occupations. 
They had also begun to encourage partners in village farms ^ to 
agree among themselves, to extinguish their mutual rights of 
common over the cultivated land which they occupied, to con- 
sohdate their holdings by exchange, and to till them as separate 
farms. The pace at which these enclosures proceeded, and the 
extent to which they were carried, varied with each comity and 
almost with each manor. But by the end of the fifteenth century, 
though the great bulk of the village farms remained untouched, the 
area of land over which manorial tenants enjoyed rights of common 
was considerably diminished, partly by the action of lords of the 
manors, partly by that of the tenants themselves. Portions of the 

1 20 Hen. III. c. 4. " 13 Ed. I. c. 46. 

^ See chapter i. p. 6, note 1, and pp. 23-27. 



MONEY RENTS AND WAGES 39 

untilled waste had been enclosed, reduced to cultivation, and let 
in separate farms to rent-paying leaseholders, and to copyholders, 
who were admitted to their tenancies in the Court Baron and 
entered as tenants on the court roll. " Many of the lordes," says 
Fitzherbert, " have enclosed a great part of their waste grounds, 
and straightened their tenants of their commons within." So also, 
by withdrawing those parts of the cultivated demesne which lay in 
the village fields, and letting them in small compact holdings, they 
had reduced the area of cultivated land over which common of 
pasture was enjoyed. Fitzherbert notes that " the mooste part of 
the lordes have enclosed their demeyn landes and medows, and 
kepe them in severaltie, so that theyr tenauntes have no comjna 
\\ith them therein." Finally, the tenants themselves followed the 
example of their landlords. Wherever the custom of the manor 
permitted the practice, tenants and partners in the village farms 
accepted " hcenses to enclose part of their arable land, and to take 
in new intakes or closes out of the commons," or agreed with their 
fellow-commoners to extinguish, temporarily or permanently, their 
mutual rights to graze each other's arable and meadow lands after 
the crops had been cleared. 

At first the holdings, whether separate or associated, were, as 
has been previously described, rented by labour services or produce- 
rents. But from the latter half of the thirteenth century onwards 
a change had been taking place. Landowners, who were them- 
selves exchanging their personal services for cash equivalents, 
needed money not only to make the purchases required by an 
advancing standard of hving, but to satisfy the demands of the 
royal tax-collectors. In their land they found a new source of 
income. They still kept their demesnes in hand ; but they pre- 
ferred to cultivate these home farms by the contract services of 
hired men, whether servants in husbandry or day labourers, instead 
of relying on the compulsory labour of tenants, which it was difi&cult 
and expensive to supervise. They were, therefore, willing to 
commute for money payments the team dues, and, to a less extent, 
the manual dues, by which much of the manorial land was rented — 
whether in the whole or in part, whether temporarily or permanently. 
Those who owed the personal services were on their side eager to 
pay the cash equivalents. The money payments freed them from 
labour obhgations which necessarily interfered with their own agri- 
cultural operations, and enabled them to devote themselves, con- 



40 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

tinuously and exclusively, to the cultivation of their own holdings. 
Their places on the demesne land were taken by wage-earning farm- 
servants or hired labourers, recruited from the landless sOil»» of 
tenants, or from cottagers who either had no holding at all or not 
enough to supply them with the necessaries of life. Thus there 
were hired farm-servants and day-labourers cultivating the 
demesne land for money wages ; tenants paying money rents 
only for their holdings ; others who still paid their whole rent 
in produce or in labour ; others whose labour services had been 
partially commuted for money payments, either for a period or 
permanently. 

The local and gradual break-up of the manorial organisation of 
agricultural labour was accelerated by the Black Death (1348-9). 
Entering England through the port of Wejmaouth in August, 1348, 
the plague spread to the north before it died out in the autumn of 
the following year. It had been preceded by several years of 
dearth and pestilence, and it was succeeded by four outbreaks of 
similar disease before the end of the century. During its ravages 
it destroyed from one-third to one-half of the population. Lords 
of manors suffered both as o\\Tiers of land and as employers of 
labour. Whole famihes were swept away, and large quantities of 
land were thrown on the hands of landlords by the deaths of free- 
holders and customary tenants without heirs or descendants. 
Numbers of bondmen took advantage of the general confusion, 
threw up their holdings, escaped into the towns, or jomed the ranks 
of free labourers. Their derelict holdings increased the mass of 
untenanted land, and their flight dimmished the amount of resident 
labour available for the cultivation of the home farm. Those 
tenants who remained on the manor found in the landlord's diffi- 
culty their opportunity of demanding increased wages, of commuting 
labour services for money payments,^ of enlarging the size of their 

^ Before the Black Death, on 81 manors, the services of tenants supplied 
the necessary farm labour on the demesnes in the following proportions : 
on 44, the whole ; on 22, the half ; on 9, an inconsiderable portion ; on 6, 
all labour services were commuted. After the Black Death (1371-80), on 
126 manors, the proportions were as follows : on 22, the whole ; on 25, the 
half ; on 39, an inconsiderable portion ; on 40, all labour services were com- 
muted. The End of Villainage in England, by T. W. Page (PubMcations of 
the American Economic Association, May, 1900), pp. 44-46, 59-65. 

Miss Davenport (The Economic Development of a Norfolk Manor, 1906, 
pp. 52, 58) says that, out of 3219 ser\'ices charged on the lands of Fomcett 
Manor in 1376, only 195 were available in 1406. 



STATUTES OF LABOUR 41 

holdings, of establishing the principle of competitive rents. The 
" Great Death " in fact produced the natural results. There was 
a fall in rents and a rise in wages, because the supply of land exceeded 
the demand, and the demand for labour was greater than the 
supply. 

Legislation came to the aid of landowners by endeavouring to 
maintain the supply of labour and to regulate the rise both of wages 
and of prices. The statutes clearly illustrate the difficulties of 
landlords and consumers. The crisis was so abnormal that unusual 
action seemed justifiable. In the plague years of 1348-9 agricultural 
labour was so scarce that panic wages were asked and paid. A 
similar rise in prices took place simultaneously. So exorbitant did 
the demands both of labourers and producers appear, following as 
they did on a previous rise in both wages and prices, that a royal 
proclamation was issued in 1349. It ordered all men and women, 
" bond or free," — unless living on their own resources, tilling their^ 
own land, employed in merchandise, or exercising some craft, — 
to work on the land where they hved at the rate of wages current 
in 1346. Those who gave or took higher wages were fined treble 
or double the sums so given or received. The claim of lords of 
manors to the services of their own men was acknowledged. But 
their claim was no longer exclusive ; they were not to employ more 
labour than they absolutely required. The king's proclamation 
was not universally obeyed. Employers had either to lose their 
crops or yield to " the proud and covetuous desires " of the men. 
They were indeed placed in a difficulty. On the one hand, men 
could not be hired under threepence to perform the same services 
which had been recently commuted for a half-penny. On the 
other hand, the strike was well-aimed and well-timed. It hit the 
most vulnerable points. The classes of agricultural labourers 
against whom the proclamation was specially directed were ser- 
vants in husbandry, mowers, reapers, and harvesters. Servants in 
husbandry, boarding at the home-farm or the houses of the larger 
tenants, were the ploughmen, carters, cowherds, shepherds, milk- 
maids, and swmeherds, who had the care of the live-stock. They, 
like the harvesters, were indispensable. If the crops were not 
harvested when ripe, they spoiled ; if the live-stock were neglected, 
they died. To solve the difficulty ParHament itself intervened. 
The provisions of the proclamation were supplemented by the 
first Statute of Labourers (1349, 23 Ed. III.), and expanded by a 



42 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

series of Acts extending over the next 150 years.^ The stocks, 
imprisonment, outlawry, and branding were the punishments of 
those who refused to work, or absented themselves without licence 
from the hundred where they lived. Every boy or girl, who had 
served in husbandry up to the age of twelve " at the plough or cart," 
was bound to " abide at the same labour." Justices, either of the 
Peace or under a special commission, were sworn to enforce the 
Acts, and to fix the rates of wages at which labourers could be 
compelled to serve. 

How far this legislation attained its immediate ends it is difficult 
to say ; the repeated re-enactment of labour laws, the petitions 
of employers, and the preambles to successive statutes may seem 
to suggest that it failed. On the other hand, there is abundant 
evidence ^ that the law was rigorously enforced, and this would 
naturally be inferred from the fact that its administration was 
entrusted to officials who were directly interested in com]3elHng 
obedience to its provisions. The rise both in wages and prices was 
great. But the statutes undoubtedly prevented either from 
reaching famine height. Whether they were completely successful 
or not, they embittered the relations between employers and 
employed, and so prepared the ground for the Peasants' Rising of 
1381. Confronted by a discontented peasantry, burdened with 
large tracts of land which threatened to pass out of cultivation, 
hampered by the scarcity and dearness of labour, landlords turned 
in new directions for relief. Here and there, where the climate 
favoured the expedient, they reduced their labour-bills by laying 
dowTi tracts of arable land to pasture. Elsewhere the demesnes 
were let off in separate farms at money rents. Often, in order to 
secure tenants, the land was let on the " stock and land " system, 
similar to that of the metayer, the landlord finding the stock and 
implements. Sometimes the entire manor was leased to one or 

^E.g. 1360- 1 (34 Ed. III. cc. 10, 11) ; 1368 (42 Ed. III. c. 6) ; 1377 (1 Ric. II. 
c. 6) ; 1385 (8 Ric. II. c. 2) ; 1388 (12 Ric. II. cc. 3-9) ; 1402 (4 Hen. IV, 
c. 14) ; 1405 (7 Hen. IV. c. 17) ; 1423 (2 Hen. VI. c. 18) ; 1427 (6 Hen. VI. 
c. 3) ; 1429 (8 Hen. VI. c. 8) ; 1444 (23 Hen. VI. c. 12) ; 1495 (11 Hen. VII. 
c. 22) ; 1496 (12 Hen. VII. c. 3) ; 1514 (6 Hen. VIII. c. 3) ; 1563 (5 Eliz. 
c. 4). 

"Miss Putnam's Enforcement of the Statutes of Labourers (1908), (Columbia 
University : Studies in History, Economics and Public Law, vol. xxxii.) is 
an exhaustive commentary on the administration of the law from 1349 to 
1360. 



THE MANOR OF CASTLE COMBE 43 

more tenants, who paid a fixed annual rent for the whole, and then 
sub-let portions of the land.^ 

Two examples of this gradual transformation of the manorial 
system may be quoted. In the first instance — that of Castle Combe ^ 
in Wiltshire — the neighbourhood of a clothmaking industry may 
have made the process of change exceptionally rapid, even for the 
south of England. At the Domesday Survey the manor contained 
1200 acres under the plough. Of this arable land, 480 acres were 
in the lord's demesne, cultivated by 13 serfs and the team and 
manual labour of the manorial tenants. The remainder of the 
arable area (720 acres) was occupied by 5 villeins, 7 bordars, and 
5 cottagers. There was a wood of a mile and half in length by 
three quarters of a mile in breadth. There were also three water 
mills. The whole population consisted of bondmen : none were, 
in the eye of the law, free. In 1340 the tenemental land had 
increased to nearly 1000 acres. There were ten freemen, holding 
between them 247 acres of arable land. Of these freemen, one of 
the three millers held an estate of inheritance to himself and his 
heirs, at a fixed quit-rent, subject to a heriot and attendance at 
the manorial courts. The nine remaining freemen, among whom 
were the other two millers, held their land at will at fixed money 
rents and similar services. The rest of the inhabitants were still 
bondmen. Fifteen customary tenants occupied for the term of 
two lives 540 arable acres, in holdings of from 60 to 30 acres, partly 
by money rents, partly by labour services. Eleven others held 
15 acres each (165 acres) for two fives, paying their rent only by 
labour on the demesne ; but in addition nine of them also held 
crofts, for which they paid annual money rents. All these 
classes, in virtue of their holdings, were protected agamst caprices 
of the lord's will by manorial customs. Many of them remained 
bondmen in status, but the condition of their tenure was raised. 
Eight " Monday-men " held cottages and crofts or curtilages by 
labour services only. These thirty-four bondmen, at the will of 

^ Thus the land of the manor of Hawsted in Suffolk was let in 1410 by- 
Sir William Clopton to Walter Bone, Sir William reserving the manor-house 
and the fines and other legal rights of a manor {History of Hawsted, pp. 
193-5). 

^History of the Manor, etc. of Castle Combe, by G. Poulett Scrope (1852). 
The areas are calculated on the assumption that the local " carucate " con- 
tained 120 acres. Whatever the actual acreage may have been, the pro- 
portions remain the same. 



44 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

the lord, could buy themselves out of their labour obhgations on 
payment of the cash values which are entered against their services 
in the steward's book. In this event substitutes were provided 
in the twelve cottagers, who paid a fixed money rent for their 
cottages. Immediately after the " Great Death " the final stage 
is reached. In 1352 the demesne was cut up into separate farms, 
and let on money rents. Labour services were therefore no longer 
needed, and were either merged in the copyhold rents or allowed 
to die out. 

The second instance, that of the vast estates of the Berkeleys, 
covers a wider area. The poHcy adopted by the family in the 
management of their manors in Gloucestershire, Somersetshire, 
Essex, and elsewhere, was in one important respect consistent from 
1189 to 1417. Throughout the whole period, successive lords 
aimed at increasing their enclosures. They began to withdraw 
those portions of the demesne which lay in " common fields, here 
one acre or ridge, and there an other, one man's intermixt \\ith an 
other," to consoHdate them, free them from common, and enclose. 
By exchange with free tenants, other lands were thrown together 
and similarly treated. The skirts of woods and chases were taken 
in hand, and hundreds of acres of " assart " land were enclosed. 
Sometimes these enclosures were made by agreement ; sometimes 
without. Maurice de Berkeley (1243-81) had within his manor of 
Hame " a wood called whitclive wood, adioinynge whereunto were 
his Tenants' arrable and pasture grounds and likewise of divers 
freeholders. This hee fancieth to reduce into a parke ; hee treateth 
with freeholder and tenant for buyinge or exchanginge of such of 
their lands lyeing neere the said wood as hee fancied : In which 
wood, also, many others had comon of pasture for theire cattle all 
tymes of the yeare, (for noe woods or grounds, in effect, till the Eve 
of this age, were inclosed or held in severalty :) with theis also hee 
treatieth for releases of their comon : After some labor spent, and 
not prevailinge to such effect as hee aymed at : hee remembered 
(as it seemeth) the Adage, inulta non laudantur nisi prius peracta : 
many actions are not praisworthy till they bee done : Hee there- 
fore on a sodaine resolutely incloseth soe much of each man's land 
unto his sayd wood as hee desired : maketh it a parke, placeth 
keepers, and storeth it with Deere, And called it, as to this day it is, 
Whitclyve parke. They seeing what was done, and this lord 
offeringe compositions and exchanges as before, most of them 



THE BERKELEY ESTATES 45 

soone agreed, when there was noe remedy. . . . Those few that 
remayned obstinate fell after upon his sonne with suites, to theire 
small confort and less gaines." ^ 

For the first 140 years of the period (1189-1417) the lords of 
Berkeley steadily pursued the plan of converting customary 
tenancies and tenancies of newly enclosed lands into freeholds of 
inheritance at fixed quit-rents which represented the rack-rents 
then current. They seem to have feared that in future years the 
income of their land would fall rather than rise. Robert de Berke- 
ley began the policy (1189-1220) ; it was continued by his successor, 
Maurice ; it culminated in the time of Thomas, first Lord Berkeley 
(1281-1321), who himself created 800 of these freeholds, many of 
which still remained when John Smyth wrote the history of the 
family in 1628. This family policy was, however, completely 
reversed by his grandson Thomas, third Lord Berkeley (1326-61). 
Many hundreds of the freeholds created by his predecessors were 
repurchased, and let at rack-rents. His example was, for the next 
half century, actively followed by his successors. But for this 
reversal of the family pohcy, Smyth calculates that three-quarters 
of the Berkeley Estates would have been freeholds of inheritance, 
paying fixed quit-rents of fourpence or sixpence an acre for land 
which in 1628 was worth twelve shillings. 

At no time during the period (1189-1415) was any large proportion 
of the demesne lands divided and let on lease. The Berkeleys 
themselves farmed on a gigantic scale through their bailiffs and 
their reeves. Thus the third lord (1326-61) kept in his own hands 
the demesnes of upwards of 75 manors, stocking them with his 
own oxen, cows, sheep, and swine. On no manor did the flock of 
sheep number less than 300 ; on some it reached 1500. At Bever- 
ston in Gloucestershire, in the seventh year of Edward III., he 
sheared 5775 sheep. From these manors his suppHes Avere drawn 
to feed each day at his " standing-house " 300 persons and 100 
horses. Thence came every year geese, ducks, peacocks, capons, 
hens and chickens, — 200 of each kind, many thousands of eggs 
and 1000 pigeons, coming from a single manor, — stores of honey, 
wax, and nuts, an " uncredible " number of oxen, bullocks, calves, 
sheep and lambs, and vast quantities of wheat, rye, barley, oats, 
pease, beans, apples, and pears. All was accounted for with minute 
detail by the stewards, reeves, and bailiffs. Their accounts for 
^ Lives of the Berkeleys, vol. i. pp. 140-1. 



46 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

the manors and for the household show what amount of com 
remained in the granary from the previous year ; how much 
was each year reaped and winnowed, sold at markets, shipped to 
sea ; how much was consumed in the lord's house, in his stable, 
in his kennels, in the poultry yard, or in the falcons' mews ; how 
much was malted ; how much was given to the poor, to friars 
and other rehgious orders by way of yearly allowances. 

The pohcy of repurchasing freeholds and of increasing enclosures 
was pursued by the fourth lord (1361-68) and by his son (1368- 
1417). But from 1385 onwards the practice of farming the 
demesne lands through the reeves was abandoned. " Then," says 
Smyth, " began the times to alter, and hee with them (much 
occasioned by the insurrection of Wat Tyler and generally of all 
the Comons in the land,) And then instead of manureing his 
demesnes in each manor with his own servants, oxen, kine, sheep, 
swine, poultry and the Hke, under the oversight of the Reeves of 
the manors. . . . This lord began to joyst and tack in other 
mens cattle into his pasture grounds by the week, month, and 
quarter : And to sell his meadow grounds by the acre ; and so 
between wind and water (as it were) continued part in tillage, 
and part let out and joysted as aforesaid for the rest of that 
kings raigne. And after, in the time of Henry the fourth, let 
out by the year stU more and more by the acre as hee found 
chapmen and price to his hkeing." ^ The landlord was ceasing to 
be a patriarchal farmer and becoming only a rent-receiver. The 
process went on v^-ith increasing rapidity. By the end of the reign 
of Edward IV. the greater part of the manors and demesnes had 
been let to tenants, either on rack-rents or at lesser rents with the 
reservation of a fine. The day-Avorks due from the old customary 
tenants, in proportion to their holdings of yard-lands and " far- 
rundells," together with their produce rents, were commuted into 
money equivalents and added to the new rents. 

The story of the Manor of Castle Combe and of the estates of the 
Berkeleys holds true, with many variations, of England generally. 
Everywhere the cultivation of demesnes by the labour services of 
manorial tenants was gradually abandoned, and the older system 
replaced by separate farms, let for money rents to individual 
occupiers. The change proceeded more rapidly in the south and 
south-west than in the north and east. But as the fifteenth century 
1 Lives of the Berkeleys, vol. ii. pp. 5-6. 



FREE LABOURERS 47 

neared its close the relations between owners, occupiers, and cul- 
tivators of land had, in many parts of England, assumed a more 
modem asjaect. There was a large increase in the number of free- 
holders, and of leaseholding or copyholding farmers renting land in 
indiWdual occupation ; there was also an increase in the number 
of free labourers whose only capital was their labour. The complete 
abolition of villeinage had been demanded by the people in the 
rising of 1381, and one of the principal objects of the rioters had 
been the destruction of the rolls of the manor courts, which were 
the evidence not only of their titles but of their disabihties. Possibly 
they may have hoped that, if the court rolls were destroyed, they 
would be left in undisturbed possession of their holdings. Possibly 
they may have expected to escape the pajnnent of the vexatious 
fines and hcences incidental to the tenure, and there is some suggestion 
that landlords were endeavouring to recoup themselves for the loss 
of income, which the commutation of labour services and the 
decrease of the manorial population had produced, by the stricter 
exaction of payments. Eighty years later the class of villeins, 
which once had included the great mass of the rural population, 
was fast disappearing. The more prosperous members of the class 
had retained their hold on the land, whether on the demesnes, the 
assart lands, or the village farms. Some had become freeholders ; 
others rented their holdings at fixed money rents on leases for a 
term of years or for fives ; others, whose rights were derived from 
ancient customs, were admitted as copyholders for fives and possibly 
of inheritance on the court roll of the manor. The uncertainty of 
viUein tenure was gone, and its brand of personal servitude could 
not long continue when the old relation of feudal lord and dependent 
was exchanged for that of landlord and tenant or of employer and 
employed, and was expressed in cash instead of personal services. 
Even landless bondmen had for the most part gained their personal 
freedom. Some purchased freedom by money payments ; on 
some the influence of the Church, or the pricking of conscience 
conferred it by a deathbed emancipation ; the legal presumption 
of natural fiberty and the decisions of the law courts bestowed it 
on others. Here a bondman escaped from the manor and was 
lost sight of ; here a man took refuge in a town ; another accepted 
the taAvny fivery of the Berkeleys or of some other great lord ; a 
fourth received the tonsure, or took service in a monastery, as a 
lay brother ; a fifth made freedom the condition on which he would 



48 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

take up land. In numerous cases the services were lost from 
neglect, because they ceased to be profitable when landlords aban- 
doned farming and became only rent-receivers. In all these ways 
the ranks of freemen and free labourers Avere recruited. The 
numbers of AoUeins dwindled fast. But the tenure survived the 
Tudor period. Its aboHtion was demanded in the eastern counties 
during Rett's rebellion (1549), and all men who had not been 
legally emancipated hved throughout the reign of Elizabeth in 
peril that its incidents might be revived against them. Even the 
old personal services still lingered. Till the end of the eighteenth 
century, labour dues as part of the rent of land were enforced in 
the north-west of England. Half the county of Cumberland was 
still unenclosed in 1794. " By far the greatest part of this county 
was held under lords of manors, bj^ that species of vassalage, called 
customary tenure ; subject to the payment of fines and heriots, on 
ahenation, death of the lord, or death of tenant, and the payment 
of certain annual rents, and performance of various services, called 
Boon-days, such as getting and leading the lord's peats, plowing 
and han'owing his land, reaping his corn, hay-making, carrjdng 
letters, etc., etc., whenever summoned by the lord." ^ 

The fifteenth century lies midway betw^een two recognised periods 
of distress among the rural population. Agriculturally, its history 
is almost a blank. The silence has been interpreted in different 
ways. Some \^Titers have considered it as a time of progress ; 
others have read it as the reverse. There is evidence that the 
principal sufferers by the djaiastic and aristocratic struggle of the 
Roses were the nobihty and the soldiers, that country districts 
were not laid waste, and that villages and their populations were 
neither destroyed nor harried. If so, rural life may have advanced 
peacefully, profiting by the absorption of landowners in more 
exciting pursuits than the administration of their estates. When 
once the struggle was ended, a new world began to piece itself 
together. Accepting the spirit of the coming age, agriculture 
reorganised itself on a money basis, and two classes emerge into 
prominence — capitahst tenant-farmers and free but landless 
labourers. Both had been slowly forming during the first three 
quarters of the century : both were equally essential to the changed 
conditions of farming. The tenant-farmer had risen in the social 

^ General View of the Agriculture of the County of Cumberland, by John 
Bailey and George Culley (1794), p. 11. 



FORMATION OF NEW CLASSES 49 

scale ; 'the labourer, if the possession of land alone measured his 
position in society, had fallen. Mediaeval organisations of trade 
were undergoing a similar transformation. Guilds, like village 
farms, had maintained a certain equality of wealth and position 
among the master craftsmen, and apprentices and journeymen not 
only looked to become masters themselves, but shared in the 
advantages of membership of the organised crafts. At the close 
of the fifteenth century, the wealthier liveried masters began, like 
capitahst tenant-farmers, to form a higher rank within the guild, 
and to control and administer its policy. Below them in the scale 
a new class was coming into existence. Independent journeyxQen 
were increasing in number — hired artisans who derived no benefits 
from the guilds, enjoyed no prospect of becoming master-craftsmen, 
and depended for their Uvehhood, hke the free labourer divorced 
from the soil, on employment and wages. For the rising classes, 
the fifteenth century may have been a period of prosperity ; for 
the classes which were in some respects falling, it was probably 
a time of adversity. Only thus can the rose-coloured descriptions 
of writers Hke Sir John Fortescue be reconciled with the darker 
accounts which might be put together from other sources. It is 
not in the gay hohday scenes of a Chaucer, but in the grimly reaHstic 
pictures of a Langland that the features of rural life are most truly 
painted. 

Leaseholders and copyholders in separate occupation of farms 
had increased rapidly in number as well as in importance. Their 
ranks were swollen by the tenants of the reclaimed w^astes, by those 
among whom the demesne was now divided, and by holders of the 
" stock and land " leases who had saved sufficient capital to stand 
on their own feet ; by men of capacity and enterprise, who realised 
the superior advantages of a separate holding, however small ; by 
hundreds of the old customary tenants, who found that the rents 
for which their personal services had been commuted were higher 
than the competitive money rents which land could command when 
the supply was excessive. The terms for which leases ran grew 
longer. They advanced from a year to five years, then to seven 
years, then to ten years, then to twenty-one, then to fives, and often 
to fee farm. The increasingly prolonged term illustrates the greater 
confidence in the stability of the government. It also indicates, 
on the part of the farmer, a growing sense of the legal security 
which leases afforded ; on the part of landowners, the wish to retain 

D 



50 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MAJS^OR 

as long as possible their responsible tenants ; and, among the more 
far-sighted of the tenantry, a desire to rid themselves of the imper- 
fect ownership which customary tenure implied. Finally, farms were 
increasing in size. The word " farm " was itself changing its mean- 
ing from the stipulated rent to the area of land out of which the 
payment issued. In this transition another meaning of the word 
was lost. In many parts of England at that time, and in the north 
of England down to the last century, a farm meant that definite 
area of land which afforded a hving to the occupier and his family .^ 
By the end of the fifteenth century it had acquired its modem 
sense of an indefinite area of land occupied by one tenant at one 
rent. Complaints of the practice of throwing together a number 
of men's " hvings " into one holding in one man's occupation begin 
to be frequent, and are directed against the absorption of the small 
arable holdings of from ten to thirty acres. They occur in sermons, 
in Petitions to the King, in doggerel verse. The letter of the Vicar 
of Quinton in Gloucestershire, written to the President of Magdalen 
College, Oxford,^ at the close of the fifteenth century, breathes the 
spirit of the twentieth century. Magdalen College owned an estate in 
the parish of Quinton, and the president hesitated whether the 
College should let the land as one farm, or, as we should now say, 
let it in small holdings. The vicar appeals on behalf of his parish- 
ioners. " Aftur my sjonpuU reson," he writes, "it is mor meritory 
to support and succur a comynte [community] then one mane, 
yowre tenan[ts] rathere then a stronge man, the pore and the 
innocent for [instead of] a gentylman or a gentylman's man." 

Whatever may have resulted from the vicar's appeal, circum- 
stances generally favoured the multipHcation of separate holdings 
and their increase to a size which rendered the emplojnnent of 
money as well as of labour remunerative. Practical agriculturists, 
hke Fitzherbert, urge every man to " change fields with his neigh- 
bour, so that he may lay his lands together," keep more five-stock, 
improve the soil by their " compostynge," and rest his corn land 
when it becomes impoverished. The long wars with France were 
over ; the civil strife between York and Lancaster was ended ; 
the central government under Henry VII. was firmly estab fished ; 
trade was beginning to expand ; population, arrested in its increase 
since the death of Edward I., was once more growing. On the 

^ The Ancient Farms of Northumberland, by F. W. Dendy (1893), pp. 11-19. 
^England in the Fifteenth Century, by the Rev. W. Denton (1888), p. 318. 



PASTON AND LATIMER 51 

other hand, land had depreciated in value ; rents had declined ; 
farming had deteriorated ; useful practices had been discontinued ; 
cattle were dwindling in size and weight ; the common pastures 
had become infected with " murrain " ; the arable area of open- 
fields had grown less productive, and without manure its fertility 
could not be restored. Land was cheap to buy and cheap to rent. 
Enterprising purchasers and farmers could make it pay, if they 
reaUsed the advantages of separate occupation, of employing money 
on the land, of reviving obsolete practices like marUng, and, in 
certain climates, of adopting a convertible husbandry that adapted 
itself to fluctuating needs better than the open-field system, which 
rigidly regulated the cultivation of the soil and permanently separ- 
ated arable land from pasture. The one obstacle to the success of 
the new tenant-farmer was the scarcity and dearness of labour. 
But sheep-grazing cut down labour bills, while legislation checked 
the natural rise of wages, and barred the outlet into towns against 
agricultural labourers and their sons. Even a high rate of wages 
often proved nominal rather than real, for, under the Statutes of 
Labourers, farmers had the option of paying their men in com at 
the statutory price of 6s. 8d. a quarter when com fell below that 
price, or in money when the price of corn approached or exceeded 
the statutory figure. 

Two contemporary pictures have been painted of the hves of 
tenant-farmers, who were fathers of famous sons — one at the 
opening, the other at the close, of the fifteenth century. Each 
picture seems to be more or less t5q3ical of the farming class at the 
periods to which they belong. Clement Paston, at the beginning 
of the century, lived at the village of Paston, near Mundesley in 
Norfolk.^ " He was," says an anonymous writer who was no 
friend to the family, " a good plain husband(man), and hved upon 
his land that he had in Paston, and kept thereon a plough all times 
in the year, and sometimes in bar ly sell two ploughs. The saide 
Clement yede (went) at one plough both winter and summer, and 
he rode to miU on the bare horseback with his corn under him, 
and brought home meal again under him, and also drove his cart 
with divers corns to Wynterton to sell as a good husband(man) 
ought to do." He had at the most 100 or 120 acres of land, some of 
it copyhold, and a " little poor water-mill." He married a bond- 
woman. Their son William, who was kept at school, often on 
1 Paston Letters, ed. Gairdner, Introduction, vol. i. pp. 28-30. 



62 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

borrowed money, became a distinguished lawyer, a sergeant-at-law, 
in 1429 a Judge of the Common Pleas, and the founder of the 
Paston family. At the close of the same century, Hugh Latimer 
the father of the Bishop of Worcester, was a farmer in Leicester- 
shire. Preaching before Edward VI., ^ the son describes his father's 
circumstances. The elder Latimer rented some 200 acres of arable 
land with rights of common of pasture, employed half a dozen men 
on his farm besides women servants, ran 100 sheep, milked 30 cows, 
owned oxen for ploughing, and a horse for riding or for the king's 
service. He portioned his daughters with £50 or £60 apiece ; and, 
besides teaching his son to " lay his body in the bow," sent him to 
school and college. He was hospitable to his neighbours and 
charitable to the needy. And this he did out of the profits of his 
farm. 

; For wage-earning landless labourers, the last 130 years of the 
period from 1200 to 1485 were probably, in some respects, unpros- 
perous. They now were exposed to the fluctuations, not only of 
the price of necessaries, but of the labour market. Yet agricultural 
change had not affected them wholly for the worse. The bright 
side was the bondman's passage towards personal freedom ; the 
darkest feature was his divorce from the soil. To some extent his 
severance from the land was the means and the price of his personal 
emancipation. 

The surrender of the hold on the land was, at this period, mainly 
due to voluntary action by the viUeins themselves ; it was not 
caused by clearances for sheep farming. A landlord had no desire 
to lose them either as tenants or as labourers. Their flight threw 
more land on his hands, and at the same time increased the scarcity 
of labour for its cultivation. But villeins, whose holdings were 
small, had little inducement to retain them, and much to gain by 
escape. The sentimental objection to the tenure had been deepened 
and embittered by the teaching of wandering friars and " poor 
preachers." Freedom meant the rise out of a condition, the degra- 
dation of which they had begun to feel with a new acuteness. It 
meant also new possibilities. Beyond the limits of their own 
manor, they might, as freemen, acquire other holdings, or join the 
ranks of free labourers, or settle behind a city wall and practise 
some handicraft. After the " Black Death " the prospect of employ- 
ment in towns was good. Hands were at a premium. The great 
^Sermons (Parker Society), p. 101. 



THE LABOURERS' GAIN AND LOSS 53 

scarcity of labour is proved by the fact that the severity of the 
Labour Statutes was relaxed in the case of immigrants into London, f 
and, temporarily, into Norwich. That the chances of town life 
were in themselves sufficient inducements for flight from the manor 
is shown by the willingness of villeins to surrender their holdings, 
and purchase Ucences to Uve within the walls of cities. But very 
often another cause must have made the voluntary severance from 
the land a Hobson's choice. The yield of arable land on open- 
field farms was so smaU that farming scarcely provided necessaries. 
Throughout the closing years of the fifteenth century, successive 
outbreaks of murrain had killed numbers of cattle and sheep, swept 
ofif geese and poultry, and even destroyed the bees. If the results 
of similar outbreaks in the sixteenth century justify the conclusion, 
it may be supposed that it was the live-stock of open-field farmers 
which suffered most. Without stock small holders or cottagers 
found common rights valueless, and their few acres of arable land 
rather a burden than a profit. To such men the voluntary surrender 
of holdings, with or without flight, might well seem the choice of a 
lesser evil. For a time they may have prospered as labourers for 
hire. But when the conversion of tillage to pasture had begun, 
their daily employment and their harvest earnings were in peril. 
In such conditions it must have been useless, if not impossible, to 
enforce residence within the hmits of the manor. 

The possibihty that the manor itself might not provide work for 
its inhabitants was recognised in the labour legislation of the 
period. Indirectly the Labour Statutes, though manifestly not 
passed in the interest of labourers, aided their progress towards 
freedom of movement and of contract. They broke do^\^l the 
exclusive right which lords of the manor claimed over the personal 
services of their manorial dependents. Hitherto no one could 
employ a villein from another manor without the risk that this 
superior claim might be asserted. Under the king's proclamation 
of 1349, the lord's right is recognised, preferentially, but not 
exclusively. He has the first claim, not the only claim, to the 
services. He may not employ more labour than he absolutely 
needs. When his requirements are satisfied, his viUein may, and 
on demand must, work for other employers. In the statutes them- 
selves the same principle is carried further. Servants in husbandry 
are bound to appear, tools in hand, in market towns to be pubhcly 
hired, as, five centuries later in many parts of England, they 



54 THE BREAK-UP OF THE MANOR 

frequented the local statute fairs, or mops — cowmen with the hair 
of cows twisted in their button-holes, or carters and ploughmen with 
whip-cord in their hats. Thus the very legislation which was 
designed to maintain the supply of rural labour and check migra- 
tion into towns, introduces that principle of freedom of movement 
which is essential to the modern relations of employer and employed. 
In another respect, also, the Labour Statutes loosened the depend- 
ence of bondmen on their manorial lords. The jurisdiction of the 
king's law courts was extended till it invaded the sacred precincts 
of the manor court, and settled disputes between the lord and his 
villeins. Wages even were no longer to be fixed as between a bond- 
man and his feudal lord ; they were to be controlled by Justices of 
the Peace acting as the king's agents. It is not suggested that 
the fifteenth century labourer benefited by a change which virtually 
transferred the right of fixing wages to an association of employers. 
But the transfer of authority was a not unimportant step towards the 
complete collapse of the manorial organisation, and towards free 
competition as the true basis of money wages. 



THE PASSING OF THE MIDDLE AGES 55 



CHAPTER III. 

FARMING FOR PROFIT: PASTURE AND SHEEP- 
GRAZING. 1485-1558. 

The passing of the Middle Ages : enclosures in the sixteenth and eighteenth 
centuries compared ; the commercial impulse and its results ; conversion 
of tillage to pasture : enclosures and depopulation : legislation against 
enclosures ; literary attack on enclosures ; the practical defence of en- 
closures : larger farms in separate occupation : loss of employment ; -y 
enclosures equitably arranged, or enforced by tyranny ; legal powers of -^ 
landowners ; open-field farmers not the chief sufferers by enclosures ; 
scarcity of employment and rise in prices ; the new, problem of poverty : 
the ranks of vagrants ; the Elizabethan fraternity of vagabonds. 

Out of wars at home and abroad, and pestilences destructive both 
to man and beast, emerged one great agricultural change which 
by 1485 was practically completed. Feudal landowners, instead of 
pursuing the patriarchal system of farming their own demesnes 
by the labour services of their dependents, had become receivers of 
rent. Home-farms and " assart " or reclaimed lands were culti- 
vated, not by lords of the manor through baihflfs and labour-rents, 
but by freeholders, leaseholders, copyholders, and hired labourers. 
Further changes were close at hand. With the dawn of the Tudor 
period began the general movement which gradually transformed - 
England into a mercantile country. The amount of money in 
actual use was increasing ; men possessed more capital, could borrow 
it more easily, and lay it out to greater advantage. Commerce 
permeated national life. FeudaHsm was dead or d3dng, and trade 
was cHmbing to its throne. The Middle Ages were passing into 
modern times. 

On the agricultural side, the spirit of trading competition gave 
fresh impulse to an old movement which, in spite of a storm of 
protest, continued in activity throughout the Tudor period, and, 
after a century and a half of silent progress, became once more the 
centre of literary controversy before it triumphed at the close of 



56 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

the reign of George III. That movement is described as enclosure, 
and it is generally treated as necessarily destructive to the old 
village farms. But the word includes various processes, some of 
which rather strengthened than weakened the open-field system. 
Some enclosures, such as closes for stock-feeding, intakes from the 
common for arable purposes, even the not uncommon practice of 
fencing portions of the open-fields for several occupation, whether 
temporarily or permanently, were really efforts to adapt village 
farms to changing needs. Another form of enclosure was the culti- 
vation of new land obtained by clearing forests, approving portions 
of wastes, or draining fens. Here also village farms were not 
directly affected. Indirecth^ indeed, these new enclosures pro- 
duced a considerable effect. Much of the reclaimed land was tilled 
for corn ; thus the ancient arable soil was reheved from the former 
necessity of bearing grain crops, and might not improbably be put 
to the use for which it was best adapted. A third process was the 
direct enclosure of open-fields and pasture commons. This form 
generally appeared in the neighbourhood of towiis, where the 
demand for animal food and dairy produce was greatest and labour 
found a ready market, or in counties where some manufacturing 
industry prevailed and small grass holdings made a less exacting 
claim on the time of the handicraftsmen than tillage. But what- 
ever form the enclosure took, the general drift of the movement 
was towards individual occupation of land. It was therefore 
always, and particularly in the sixteenth and eighteenth centuries, 
directlj^ opposed to the open-field system of farming in common. 
At both periods that special form of enclosure was prominent 
which meant the break-up of the mediaeval agrarian partnerships 
and the substitution of private enterprise for the collective efforts 
of village associations. But in details the earHer and the later 
movements were strongly contrasted. In the sixteenth century, 
the change was opposed and partially arrested by legislation ; in 
the eighteenth century, it received from ParHament encouragement 
and support. Under Henry VIII., it was mainly inspired by com- 
mercial advantage ; under George III., it was alleged to be enforced 
by necessity. In the sixteenth century some of the grass-land was 
undoubtedly used for grazing beasts. But it was mainly to supply 
the growing wool trade that Tudor husbandmen substituted pasture 
for tillage, sheep for corn. They took their seats on the wool- 
sack, and maidens of all degrees were spinsters. Hanoverian 



TUDOR AND HANOVERIAN ENCLOSURES 57 

farmers reversed the process ; they valued sheep for their mutton 
instead of their fleeces, and concentrated their energies on the 
production of bread and meat for the teeming populations of 
manufacturing cities. Dearth of bread was in Tudor times the 
most effective cry against enclosures ; under George III. it was 
the unanswerable plea for their extension. At the opening of the 
sixteenth century, enclosure did not always mean improved farm- 
ing ; the conversion of arable land into inferior sheep-walk was 
rather retrogression than progress. At the close of the eighteenth 
century, it at least meant the opportunity for advance and for the 
introduction of better practices. To some extent, indeed, the 
different developments of the two movements measure the improve- 
ments in the methods and the increase in the resources of Hanoverian 
farmers. The Tudor husbandman might devote himself exclusively 
to the one or the other of the two branches of farming ; but he had 
not mastered the secret of their union. If he changed from tillage 
to pasture, he did so completely. He could not, Hke his successor, 
combine the two, and by the introduction of new crops, at once 
grow more corn and carry more stock. 

Agriculturally, the period which opens with the Battle of Bos- 
worth and ends Vv-ith the early years of EHzabeth is one of transition 
towards the modern spirit and forms of land cultivation. Like all 
transition periods, it is full of suffering for those who were least 
able to adapt themselves to altered conditions. The ruin of noble 
families by the Wars of the Roses, the lavish expenditure which 
Henry VIII. made fashionable, the rise in prices, and the difficulty 
of raising rents, compelled many " unthrifty gentlemen " to sell 
their estates. The break-up of landed properties and their passage 
into new hands favoured the introduction of the commercial impulse. 
The landholders whose " unreasonable covetousness " is most 
loudly condemned were mainty speculators in land, men who had 
made money in business, had capital to invest, could afford the 
expense of enclosures, and were determined to make their estates 
pay. Such were " the Merchant Adventurers, Clothmakers, Gold- 
smiths, Butchers, Tanners, and other Artificers," ^ — " the merchants 
of London" who "bie fermes out of the handes of worshj^ofull gentle- 
men, honeste yeomen, and pore labor5aige husbandes."^ Translated 

1 Petition to Henry VIII. (1514), quoted by F. J. Furnivall in Ballads 
from MSS., p. 101 (Publications of the Ballad Society, vol. i.). 

2 Thomas Lever's Sermons (1550) ; Arber's Reprints, p. 29. 



lA 



58 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

into the language of to-day, the old landlords had been satisfied 
to draw from their estates certain advantages and a low percentage 
of profit ; the new men required at the least a four per cent, return 
in money on their investments. Feudal barons had partly valued 
their land for the number of men-at-arms it furnished to their 
banners ; Tudor landoAvners appraised its worth by the amount of 
rent it paid into their coffers. Mediaeval husbandmen had been 
content to extract from the soil the food which they needed for 
themselves and their famiHes. Tudor farmers despised self- 
sufficing agriculture ; they aspired to be sellers and not consumers 
only, to raise from their land profits as well as food. As trade 
expanded, and towns grew, and EngHsh wool made its way into 
continental cities, or was woven into cloth by English weavers, 
new markets were created for agricultural produce. Fresh in- 
centives stimulated individual enterprise, and both landlords and 
tenants learned to look on the land they respectively owned or 
cultivated as a commercial asset. 

Among the results of this conquest of agriculture by the new 
spirit of commercial competition three may be noticed — firstly, 
the clearer recognition of the advantages of farms held in individual 
occupation, large enough to make the employment of capital 
remunerative ; secondly, the substitution of pasture for tillage, 
of sheep for corn, of wool for meat ; thirdly, the attack upon the 
old agrarian partnerships in which lords of the manor, parsons, 
freeholders, leaseholding farmers, copyholders, and cottagers had 
hitherto associated to supply the wants of each village. Legisla- 
tion failed to prevent a movement which harmonised and 5301- 
chronised with the progressive development of the nation on 
commercial fines. But in its earlier stages, the consequences to 
the rural population were serious. Many tenants lost their hold- 
ings, many wage-earning labourers their employment, when land- 
lords " turned graziers," and farmers cut down their labour-bills 
by converting tillage into pasture. It is impossible to doubt the 
reafity of the distress. From 1487 onwards, fiterature, pamphlets, 
doggerel ballads, sermons, Hturgies, petitions, preambles to statutes. 
Commissions of Enquiry, Acts of Parfiament, bear witness to a 
considerable depopulation of country districts. In the numerous 
insurrections, which marked the sixteenth century and the early 
years of the reign of James I., rural distress undoubtedly con- 
tributed its share. But zealous advocates of Roman Cathoficism 



SHEEP-FARMING 59 

found it useful to ally agrarian discontent with religious reaction, 
and men Hke Protector Somerset thought it poHtic to attribute 
anti-Protestant risings entirely to agricultural causes. 
s There was no novelty in the withdrawal of demesne lands from 
the open-field farm and their partition into individual occupations ; 
or in fencing off portions of the home-farm and of the reclaimed 
" assart "s lands as separate plots ; or in the appropriation of parts 
of the commonable waste for private use ; or in the encouragement 
given to partners in the village association to throw their scattered 
strips together into one compact holding!)* Each of these processes 
had been for many years in progress ; each had necessitated 
enclosures ; none had required the decay of farm-houses and 
cottages, loss of emplojrment, eviction of tenants, or rural depopula- 
tion. But from the Tudor enclosing movement these consequences 
did necessarily result, because its objects were the promotion of 
sheep-farming, the conversion of tillage into pasture, the con- 
sohdation and enlargement of grass holdings. If farmers had not 
yet at their disposal the means of reaHsing the fuU truth of the 
maxim that " the foot of the sheep turns sand into gold," the new 
commercial aristocracy were quick to see that money was to be 
made, or at least to be saved, by the growth of wool. It is true 
that down to 1540 the prices of wool remained low ; but some at 
least of the grass was taken up by the graziers, and the saving in 
labour effected by pasture farming was great. Sheep could not be 
herded with success on open commons, still less on the arable lands 
of village farms, and small holdings were incompatible with large 
flocks. It was these new elements which upset the calculations of 
agriculturists Hke Fitzherbert (1523), or Cardinal Pole ^ in Starkey's 
Dialogue (1536), or Tusser (1557), or Standish (1611), who hoped 
that the economic advantages of enclosure might be secured without 
the social loss which the conversion of large tracts of arable land 
into wide pasture farms inflicted on the rural population. 

If evidence which is rarely impartial may be imphcitly trusted, 
considerable tracts of cultivated land were converted into Avilder- 
nesses, traversed only by shepherds and their dogs ; roofless 
granges and half -ruined churches alone marked the sites of former 
hamlets ; the " deserted village " was a reality of the sixteenth 

1 In the Dialogue between Cardinal Pole and Thomas Lupset, Pole defends 
enclosures for pasture on the plea that cattle, as well as com, were necessary 
for human food (England in the Reign of Henry VIII., ed. J. M. Cowper, 
E.E.T.S., extra series xxxii. 1878). 



60 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

century. Already anxious for the maintenance of the national 
supply of com, men began to be alarmed at another result of the 
movement which became increasingly prominent. John Rous ^ 
(1411-91), chantry priest of Guy's Cliffe and Warwickshire antiquary, 
was the first to protest against the decay of population caused in 
the midland counties by enclosures for pasture farming. To this 
rural exodus the attention of Parhament had been called by the 
Lord Chancellor in the first year of Richard III. (1484). Francis 
Bacon, writing of the opening years of the reign of Henry VII., 
says : 2 " Inclosures at that time began to be more frequent, 
whereby arable land, which could not be manured without people 
and famihes, was turned into pasture which was easily rid by a 
few herdsmen ; and tenances for years, Uves, and at wiU, whereupon 
much of the yeomanry hved, w^ere turned into demesnes. This 
bred a decay of people." So formidable did the danger begin to 
appear, that in 1489 two Acts of Parliament were passed for its 
prevention. The first Act was local, dealing with the. effects of 
enclosures in the Isle of Wight from the point of view of national 
defence ; the second is general, directed " against the pulling down 
of tonnes " {i.e. townships or villages). These Acts were the pre- 
cursors of many others throughout the sixteenth century ,3 for- 
bidding the conversion of arable land into pasture, ordering newly 
laid pasture to be restored to tillage, directing enclosures to be 
thrown down, requiring decayed houses to be rebuilt, hmiting the 
number of sheep and of farms which could legally be held by one 
man, and imposing severe penalties for disobedience to the new 
provisions. 

No favour was sho%ATi by Parliament to enclosers, except perhaps 
in the case of deer-parks. On the contrary, strenuous efforts were 
repeatedly made to stop the process of enclosure. Nor was the 
Government satisfied with passing laws and imposing penalties. 
Wolsey personally interested himself in enforcing obedience to the 
laws against the decay of houses and farm-buildings and against 

^ Hiatoria Regum Angliae, ed. 1745, pp. 116-24. But Thomas Hearne was 
not always a reliable editor. 

^ History of King Henry the Seventh ( Works, ed. Spedding, vol. vi. pp. 
93-4). 

' Ej). 1489 (4 Hen. VII. cc. 16, 19) ; 1514 (6 Hen. VIII. c. 5) ; 1515 (7 Hen. 
VIII. c. 1) ; 1533-4 (25 Hen. VIII. c. 13) ; 1535-6 (27 Hen. VIII. c. 22) ; 
1551-2 (5 and 6 Ed. VI. c. 5) ; 1555 (2 and 3 Phil, and Mary, c. 2) ; 1562-3 
(5 Ehz. c. 2) ; 1593 (35 Ehz. c. 7, repealing part of 5 Eliz. e. 2) ; 1597-8 (39 
Eliz. 0. 1) ; 1601 (43 Eliz. c. 9) ; in 1624 the enclosure laws were repealed. 



LEGISLATION AGAINST SHEEP-WALKS 61 

the conversion of arable land to pasture. Active steps Avere taken 
to see that buildings were restored and enclosures and ditches 
levelled. In default, heavy penalties were exacted. A Com- 
mission was appointed in 1517,^ which enquired into all cases where 
farm-houses had been destroyed since 1485, or where ploughs had 
been put down by the increase of pasture farming. Similar 
enquiries were held in 1548, 1566, and 1607. No doubt these 
strenuous efforts checked the movement. But they failed to stop 
it altogether. In this respect they succeeded no better in encourag- 
ing tillage than the quaint pedantry of the law, which gave arable 
land precedence over other land, or conferred on beasts of the 
plough privileges that were denied to other animals. The new 
legislation seems to have been satisfied, or evaded, without serious 
difficulty ; partly, because compositions for breaches of its provisions 
might be paid or exemptions purchased ; partly, no doubt, because 
the administration of the law was often entrusted to those who 
were interested in making it a dead letter. The destruction of 
farm buildings was forbidden ; but it was easy to keep Avithin the 
statute by retaining a single room for the shepherd or the milk- 
maid ; a solitary furrow driven across newly laid pasture satisfied 
the law that it should be restored to tillage ; the number of sheep 
to be owned by one man was limited, but the ownership of flocks 
might be fathered on sons or servants. Down to the middle of 
the reign of Elizabeth the enclosing and grazing movement con- 
tinued. At subsequent intervals it renewed its special activity 
throughout the seventeenth century, when dairying began to claim 
a larger share of the attention of farmers. It was restrained or 
encouraged rather by natural causes than by legislation. Fluctua- 
tions in the prices of wool or corn, the increased profits of improved 
methods of arable farming, and the restoration of the fertility of 
the ancient tilled land, which was brought back to the plough 
after an enforced rest from excessive cropping, gradually restored 
the preponderance of tillage over pasture. 

The grievances of the rural population are to be gathered not only 
from legislation, proclamations, petitions, articles of complaint, the 
Returns of Commissioners, or the records of the law courts. They 
are also written large in More's Utopia, and in much of the ephemeral 
literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. The cry of 
the people is heard, often in exaggerated tones, in the sermons of 

1 The Domesday of Inclosures (1517-8), by I. S. Leadam, 2 vols. 1897. 



62 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

popular preachers like Tyndale, Becon, and Latimer, in the para- 
phlets of such writers as Simon Fish, Henry Brinklow, or Philip 
Stubbes, or in the rhymes of versifiers hke " Sir " Wilham Forrest, 
Robert Crowley, and Thomas Bastard, or in such anonymous 
ballads as " Nowe-a-dayes " : ^ 

" The townes go down, the land decayes ; 
Off comefeyldes, playne layes (grass-land) ; 
Gret men makithe now a dayes 
A shepecott in the church. 

Commons to close and kepe ; 
Poor folk for bred to cry and wepe ; 
Towns pulled downe to pastur shape ; 
This ys the new gyse !" 

Throughout the burden is the same — enclosure of commons, con- 
version of plough-land into pasture, sheep-farming, excessive rents, 
exorbitant fines, consoHdation of small holdings into large farms, 
decay of houses and farm -buildings, formation of deer-parks, and, 
more rarely, enclosure of open-field arable farms. Here are to be 
found fierce denunciations of the " caterpillars of the common- 
weal," 2 who " join lordship to lordship, manor to manor, farm to 
farm, land to land, pasture to pasture," and gather many thousands 
of acres of ground " together within one pale or hedge " ; or of the 
unchristian landlords, who " rack and stretch out the rents of 
their lands," taking " unreasonable fines," " setting their pore 
tenants so straitely uppon the tenter hookes as no man can lyve 
on them " ; ^ or of the insatiable " cormorants " who " let two or 
three tenantries unto one man," " take in their commons " till not 
so much as a garden ground is safe, and make " parks or pastures 
of whole parishes " ; ^ or of the " unreasonable covitous persones 
whiche doth encroche daily many ffermes more than they can be 
able to occupye or mainteyne with tilth for corne as hath been used 
in tymes past, forasmoche as divers of them hath obteyned and 
encroched into their handes, X, XII, XIV, or XVI fermes in oon 
mannes hand attons " ;^ or of the " ambicious suttletie " of those 

1 " Nowe-a-dayes," Ballads from MSS., ed. F. J. Furnivall (Publications of 
the Ballad Society, vol. i. p. 97, 1868). 

^ Thomas Becon, Jewel of Joy (Parker Society, Becon s Works, p. 432). 

'Philip Stubbes, Anatomy of Abuses (1583), (New Shakespeare Society, 
p. 116). 

* WilUam Tyndale, Doctrinal Treatises (Parker Society, p. 201). 

^ Petition to Henry VIII., quoted in Ballads from MSS., vol. i. p. 101. 



CONDEMNATION OF ENCLOSURES 63 

who make " one feaime of two or three," and even sometimes 
" bringe VI to one " ; or of the greed of " step-lords," hke the 
" rich frankhngs," ^ who 

" Occupyinge a dosen men's lyvyngis 
Take all in their owne hondes alone." 

Nor do the innocent causes of much of the trouble escape attack ; 
sheep " that were wont to be so myke and tame, and so smal eaters, 
now, as I heare sale, be become so greate devowerers, and so wylde, 
that they eate up and swallow down the very men themselfes," ^ 
drive " husbandry " out of the country, and thrust " Christian 
labourers " off the land. 

" Sheepe have eate up our medows and our downes, 
Our come, our wood, whole villages and townes ; 
Yea, they have eate up many wealthy men. 
Besides widowes and orphane childeren ; 
Besides our statutes and our Iron Lawes, 
Which they have swallowed down into their maws : — 
Till now I thought the proverbe did but jest. 
Which said a blacke sheepe was a biting beast." ^ 

Enclosers were condemned by preachers as " guilty before God of 
the sin in the text — ' they have sold the righteous for silver and the 
poor for a pair of shoes.' " A playwright Hke Massinger did not 
draw entirely on his imagination, but expressed the feeHng of the 
day when he painted his portrait of a Sir Giles Overreach, insensible 
to pity for his victims and justly called : 

" Extortioner, Tyrant, Cormorant, or Intruder 
On my poor neighbour's right, or grand Incloser 
Of what was common to my private use." * 

In the passion for sheep and hedges, which changed " merrie 
England " into " sighing or sorrowful England," men saw the 
fulfilment of the prophecy " Home and Thorne shall make England 
forlorne." ^ Superstitions enforced the popular judgment, and 
legend doomed " emparkers," hke Sir John Townley, to haunt the 
solitudes they had created, uttering bitter cries of unavaiUng 
remorse. 

1 " Rede me and be nott Wrothe." By WilHam Roy (1527), Arber's 
Reprints, 28. 

2 More's Utopia, bk. i. (Ralph Robjmson's Translation), ed. Lupton, p. 51. 

3 Bastard's Chrestoleros (1598), bk. iv. Epigram 20. 
* A New Way to pay Old Debts, Act. iv. Se. 1. 

^ Francis Trigge, Humble Petition of Two Sisters : tJie Church and the Com- 
monwealth (1604). 



64 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

It was easy for popular preachers and pamphleteers to excite 
popular passion against the " greedy gulls " and " insatiable 
cormorants," who advocated and practised enclosures, and to 
denounce the agricultural tendencies of Tudor times as solely 
guided by selfish greed. But there are practical and broader sides 
to the question. When once land w^as regarded as an important 
asset in the wealth of the nation, national interests demanded that 
it should be utihsed to the greatest possible advantage. Without 
enclosures, the soil could not be used for the purposes to which it 
was best adapted, or its resources fully developed. If money was 
to be made out of land, or if its full productive power was to be 
reahsed, it was individual enterprise alone that could make or 
realise either. Under the open-field system one man's idleness 
might cripple the industry of twenty : only on enclosed farms, 
separately occupied, could men secure the full fruit of their enter- 
prise. This fact had slowly revealed itself during the last two 
centuries. To exchange intermixed lands, to consoHdate compact 
holdings, and fence them off in separate occupation, had long been 
the aim both of landlords and tenant-farmers. Few practical 
men would have disputed the truth of Fuller's statement : " The 
poor man who is monarch of but one enclosed acre will receive 
more profit from it than from his share of many acres in common 
with others." 

Tudor agriculturists went further in their zeal for farming pro- 
gress. They saw that a small enclosed plot of 15 acres could be 
used with less advantage than a large enclosure of 150 acres which 
enabled the tenant to invest money in the land, carry more stock, 
provide his cattle with more winter food, and, if the chmate per- 
mitted, adopt convertible husbandry. This was recognised both 
by landowners and farmers of the progressive school, and the 
increased size even of arable farms continues to be a feature in 
sixteenth century changes. For successful sheep-farming, a large 
stretch of land, held in individual occupation, was still more 
essential. From this point of view the untilled common wastes 
were unprofitable. Whether land was enclosed for tillage or as sheep 
runs, its productiveness was increased by enclosure. Finally, the 
natural fertility of arable land on open unenclosed farms was 
becoming exhausted. The system was one of taking much from 
the land and putting httle back. The soil, lightly ploughed, seldom 
manured, often foul, was in some districts worn-out. From 1349 



DRAWBACKS TO OPEN-FIELD FARMING 65 

to 1485, that is, from the Black Death to the Battle of Bosworth, 
its yield had declined ; its farming had deteriorated. Fitzherbert, 
writing in the first quarter of the sixteenth century, notes that 
useful agricultural practices had in many parts become obsolete, 
that crops were smaller, and methods of husbandry more slovenly. 
The fall in rentals had been general. But it was on demesne lands, 
or on enclosed farms, that the fall in rents had been least. These 
were the lands which were in the best condition, because on them 
most manure had been expended. Open-field farmers commanded 
little or no manure for their arable land, and were practically 
dependent on sheep for fertilising the soil. Yet in winter, 
animals, reduced to the lowest possible number, barely sur- 
vived on straw and tree-loppings. The miserable condition of 
live-stock on open-field farms and commons exposed the sheep to 
the scab and the rot, and the cattle to the murrain. It was no 
uncommon spectacle to see the head of an ox impaled on a stake 
by the highway, as a warning that the township was infected. 

Agriculturists might with good reason plead that the changes 
which they advocated were justified, if not necessitated, by the 
progress of farming. They hoped that even open-field farmers 
might themselves recognise the advantages of enclosure, and would 
agree to consohdate their intermixed holdings and extinguish their 
reciprocal rights of common. Fitzherbert in his Book of Husbandry 
argues strongly in favour of enclosures, and especially insists on 
their advantages in keeping live-stock, which, he says, thrive best 
and cost least on enclosed land. If a farmer has only a twenty 
years' lease of his land, it will pay him to go to the expense of 
fencing off his land in separate parcels with hedges and ditches. 
Common-field farmers have to pay 2d. a quarter for each head of 
cattle, and Id. a quarter for each head of swine, under the care of 
the common herdsman and swineherd. If they wish to thrive, 
each must keep a shepherd of his own. The hire of the herdsman 
and the swineherd, together with the wages and board of the 
shepherd, and the cost of hurdles and stakes put together, double 
the rent. If a farmer encloses, he may have to pay three times 
this annual cost in one year ; but he has no further expense. 
" Than bathe he euery fyelde in seueraltie : and by the assente 
of the lordes and the tenauntes euery neyghbour may exchaunge 
landes with other. And than shall his farme be twyse so good in 
proffite to the tenaunte as it was before, and as muche lande kepte 

E 



X 



66 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

in tyllage, and than shall not the ryche man ouer-eate the poore 
man with his cattell, and the fourth parte of haye and strawe shall 
serue his cattell better in a pasture than foure tymes so muche 
will dooe in a house, and less attendaunce, and better the cattell 
shall lyke, and it is the chiefest sauegarde for corne bothe daye 
and nyght that may be." To the same effect wrote Tusser in the 
comparison between " champion " (or open-field) " and severall " 
(or enclosed) in his Five Hundreth Good Pointes of Good Husbandrie 
(1573). 

" More profit is quieter found, 

(Where pastures in severall bee); 
Of one seelie aker of ground 

Than champion maketh of three. ^y 

The t'one is commended for grain, 

Yet bread made of beanes they doo eate ; 

The t'other for one loafe have twaine 
Of mastlin, of rie, or of wheate." 

But the agriculturists did not anticipate that one shepherd, with 
his dog, his crook, shears, and tar-box, might take the place of 
many ploughmen. They had not reckoned on the strength of the 
new commercial spirit, and of the impulse which it gave to large 
grazing farms. The area of land actually returned as enclosed and 
converted to pasture was relatively small. It has been calculated 
that, during a period of nearly two centuries, — that is, from 1455 
to 1637, — the total acreage enclosed and converted did not exceed 
750,000 acres, and that the total number of persons thrown out of 
work was not greater than 35,000.^ At the present day, four 
miUion acres of arable land may in fifteen years be converted into 
pasture without calling the serious attention of a single statesman 

1 Mr. Gay's estimate of the total area affected between the years 1455 and 
1607 is 516,673 acres (" Inclosures in England " in Quarterly Journal of 
Economics, vol. xvii. pp. 576-97). He admits that this is probably an under- 
estimate. The figiu-e given in the text is the calculation made by the Rev. 
A. H. Johnson in The Disappearance of the Small Landowner (1909), pp. 48, 58. 

On the other hand, a contemporary writer (Certayne causes gathered 
together. Four Supplications, E.E.T.S. extra series xiii.,pp. 101-2) estimates that 
at that time (1551) 50,000 ploughs had been put down, and that each plough 
not only maintained six persons, but provided food in addition for 7^ persons. 
In other words, upwards of 650,000 persons lost their means of support. This 
is an obvious exaggeration. 

More than two-thirds of the area affected lay in the Midland coimties 
("in tunbehco regni," as Rous writes), and especially in Northamptonshire, 
Oxfordshire, Bucks, Warwick, Berkshire, Leicestershire, Bedfordshire, and 
Huntingdonshire. The northern and southern counties were almost untouched. 
In the west, Gloucestershire, and in the east, Norfolk, were the only districts 
seriously affected. 



RURAL DEPOPULATION 67 

to the consequent loss of employment and rural depopulation. But 

small though the acreage may have been, it was considerable in 

proportion to the cultivated area, and the suffering was undeniably 

great. The distress was aggravated by the disbanding of the great 

retinues which had been maintained in feudal households, and by 

the consequent disturbance of the labour market. It was still 

more intensified by the suppression of the monasteries (1536-42). 

Not only were a very large number of dependents deprived of their 

hveUhood, but enclosures on the old ecclesiastical estates were 

carried out with pecuhar harshness. The new owners among whom 

the monastic lands were distributed, bound by no sentimental tie 

to the existing tenants, claimed that the royal grant annulled all 

titles derived from the previous owners, entered on their possessions 

as though they were vacant of leaseholders or copyholders, and 

enclosed the land for sheep-runs. The doggerel ballad, " Vox 

Popuh, Vox Dei " (1549),^ laments the consequences of the change 

of ownership : 

" We have shut away all cloisters, 
But stiU we keep extortioners : 
We have taken their lands for their abuse, 
But we have converted them to a worse use." 

Voluntary agreements for the valuation and commutation of 
rights of common were often entered into between tenants and 
landowners, and bargains were struck on equitable terms. Instances 
like that given in the following extract from Kennet's Parochial 
Antiquities ^ might be indefinitely multipHed : " The said Edmund 
Rede, Esquire granted and confirmed to Thomas Billyngdon one close 
in AdjTigrave, in consideration whereof the said Thomas Billyngdon 
quitted and resigned his right to the free pasturage of four oxen to 
feed with the cattle of the said Edmund Rede and all right to any 
common in the said pasture or inlandys of the said Edmund." 
Here in 1437 was the principle of commutation of rights of common 
accepted and enforced by private contract. In other cases a 
semblance of agreement may have been secured by threats. But 
justice was not always perverted in the interests of landlords. 
Attempted acts of oppression were frequently checked by the 
courts of law. As an instance may be quoted the proposed en- 
closure of the common-fields at Welcombe, near Stratford-on- 

^ Ballads from MSS. II. 538-41. The spelling is modernized. (Publication 
of the BaUad Society, vol. i. p. 139.) 
2 Vol. ii. 324. 



68 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

Avon.i The example is the more interesting because it reveals one 
of the rare appearances of William Shakespeare in public life. In 
1614 WiUiam Combe, of Stratford-on-Avon, the CrowTi tenant of 
the " College," wished to withdraw his arable land from the open- 
field farm of Welcombe, enclose it, and lay it down to pasture. He 
also wished to enclose so much of the ancient greensward or pasture 
as his rights of pasturage represented. To his scheme he had 
obtained the consent of Lord Chancellor Ellesmere, as representative 
of the Crown, and the active co-operation of the Chancellor's 
steward. Shakespeare, however, was in a position to be a formidable 
opponent, for he not only owned land adjoining, but also held the 
unexpired term of a lease of half the tithes of the open-fields. But 
a deed, dated October 28, 1614, secured him from any loss of tithe 
through the conversion of tillage into pasture, and his consent to 
the enclosure was obtained. Combe had now only to deal with 
the Corporation of Stratford, who offered a strenuous resistance. 
Strong language did not move them ; in the Corporation MS. the 
witnesses are duly noted who heard him call them " Purtan knaves," 
" doggs and curres." Tempting offers were refused, though Combe 
proposed to compensate them in more than the value of the tithe, 
to undertake the perpetual repair of the highways passing over 
the land, and to increase the value of the rights of freeholders and 
tenants by waiving part of his claim to turn out sheep and cattle 
on the commons. Then Combe took matters mto his owm hands, 
and prepared to enclose his land by surrounding it with a ditch. 
This brought the dispute to a crisis. Not apparently without the 
knowledge of the Town Clerk, the towTispeople filled in the ditch. 
A breach of the peace seemed imminent. The matter was, there- 
fore, referred to the law-courts, and at Warwick Assizes, on March 
27, 1615, Lord Chief Justice Coke made an order that " noe inclosure 
shalbe made within the parish of Stratforde." The Dingles, which 
formed part of the common-fields of W^elcombe, remain uninclosed 
to this day. 

Instances of the tyrannical use of power could also be quoted. 
The Tudor age was rough, and might was sometimes right. Sir 
Thomas More in his Utopia (1516) paints this side to the picture, 
when he speaks of " husbandmen . . . thrust owte of their owne, or 
els by coveyne and fraude or by vyolent oppression they be put 

^ Shakespeare and the Enclosure of Common Fields at Welcoinbe, edited by 
C. M. Ingleby (1885). 



METHODS OF CONSOLIDATING ESTATES 69 

besydes it, or by wronges and injuries they be so weried that they 

be compelled to sell all." If a small freeholder or copyholder proved 

obstinate, the proceedings of Sir Giles Overreach, in A Neiv Way 

to Pay Old Debts (Act ii. Sc. I), may illustrate the methods by which 

a Naboth's vineyard, even when it belonged to a manorial lord, 

might be appropriated by a wealthy capitalist : 

" I'll therefore buy some cottage near his manor, 
WTiich done, I'll make my men break ope his fences, 
Ride o'er his standing corn, and in the night 
Set fire on his barns, or break his cattle's legs, 
These trespasses draw on suits, and suits expenses 
Which I can spare, but will soon beggar him. 
When I have harried him thus two or three year, 
Though he sue in forma pauperis, in spite 
Of all his thrift and care he'll grow behindhand. 

Then, with the favour of my man at law, 
I will pretend some title : want will force him 
To put it to arbitrament. Then if he sell 
For half the value he shall have ready money. 
And I possess his land." 

Considerations of mutual advantage, equitable bargains, fair pur- 
chase, superior force, legal chicanery, threats and bull3dng, were 
all at work to hasten the change to the individual occupation of 
land, and the consolidation of separate holdings. If copyholders 
or commoners appealed to the law-courts, matters, no doubt, some- 
times ended as they were friended. " Handy-dandy " was in the 
Middle Ages a proverbial expression for the covert bribe offered by 
a suitor, and the occasional perversion of justice is enshrined in the 
Latin jingle : Jus sine jure datur, si nummus in aure loquatur. 

Illegal evictions are not included among the grievances alleged by 
the leaders in any of the risings of the peasantry which marked 
the Tudor period. Their absence from these lists justify the con- 
clusion that open illegality was at least rare. But the law itself 
gave landowners abundant opportunities of regaining possession of 
the land. Leaseholders for a term of years or for Hves had no legal 
claim to a renewal of their leases, when the term of years had 
expired or the last life had dropped. Rents might then be raised 
to an exorbitant sum or extravagant fines exacted, and, unless the 
tenant was prepared to pay the increased charge, he must surrender 
his holding. Cottagers or squatters on the waste could rarelj^ 
show any legal claim to the occupation of land, and the tenancy of 
a cottage to which rights of common attached could be practically 
determined by enhancing the rent. Copyholders were, in all 



70 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

probability, almost equally insecure in their holdings. So long as 
they were in possession, the court roU was evidence of the incidents 
of their tenure. But the law was still vague as to rights of suc- 
cession to copyholds. It may be doubted whether copyholds of 
inheritance were yet known, and it is reasonably certain that the 
normal copyhold was for a term of years or for hves. At the 
expiration of the term of years or of the last life, normal copy- 
holders were at the mercy of the lord. Even if copyholds of inheri- 
tance were recognised by lawyers in the sixteenth century, they 
were still insecure. Their titles must often have been incapable 
of legal proof ; they might be forfeited by some real or technical 
breach of custom ; their renewal was subject to the pajnnent of 
fines on admittance, which might, where no manorial custom fixed 
the sum, be arbitrary in amount. It was not tiU the close of the 
eighteenth century that the law fixed the hmits of a reasonable 
fine, and, if the fines were arbitrary, the landlord had a weapon 
with which even copyholds of inheritance, as understood by modern 
lawyers, might be determined. It is impossible to doubt that 
exorbitant rents and excessive fines, of which the peasant leaders, 
preachers, and pamphleteers so bitterly complain, were sometimes 
used to dispossess leaseholders and copyholders. The powers were 
legal ; but their exercise often worked injustice. Yet it should be 
remembered, on the other side, that the raising of rents or the 
enhancing of fines, whenever the opportiuiity occurred, were the 
only means of adjusting the landlord's income to the great rise in 
the prices of agricultural produce. In the Compendious or Briefe 
Examination ^ the Knight puts the landlord's case. "In all my 
life time," he says, "I looke not that the thirde part of my lande shaU 
come to my dispocition that I may enhaunce the rent of the same, 
but it shalbe in mens holdinges either by lease or by copie graunted 
before my time. . . . We cannot rayse all our wares as youe maye 
yours." Rents, based on the commutation of labour services at a 
fixed aimual sum in the fourteenth century did not represent the 
annual value of the land in 1550. Nor were fines for renewal or on 

1 The Compendious or briefe Examination of certayne ordinary complaints 
of divers of our countrymen in these our dayes was printed in 1581, and the 
authorship is attributed to " W. S. Gentleman." But Miss Lamond dis- 
covered, edited, and published (1893) an edition from a MS. probably written 
in 1549. She gives reasons for assigning its authorship to John Hales. 
" W. S." may have been William Stafford (1554-1612) ; but that he was not 
the writer appears to have been conclusively proved. 



STRONG POSITION OF OPEN-FIELD FARMERS 71 

admittance always excessive. Roger Wilbraham/ of Delamere in 
Cheshire, about the middle of the seventeenth century, left behind 
him instructions for his heir : " It will be expected of my heir that 
he deale no worse with tenants than I have done. And for his 
directions I have set down ye yearly values according to which I 
deale and wold have him to deale with the tenants. My rule in 
leasing is to take for a fine from ancient tenants : 8 years' value 
for 3 hves, 5 years' value to add 2 hves to 1, 2 years' value to add 1 
life to 2, 1 year's value to change a life, or more if there is any great 
disparity in years betmxt the hves." When, therefore, rents were 
raised or fines enhanced, the landlord was not always trying to dis- 
possess his tenant. As often as not, he was claiming his proper 
share of the tenant's " unearned increment." 

Against these weapons of the law the cultivators of the old 
home-farms and of the assart lands were practically defenceless. 
It is therefore natural to suppose that they were the principal 
sufferers by the enclosing movement. In their case enclosures did 
not of necessity involve any breach of the old or new law. 
Even the provisions of the Tudor legislation were not infringed, 
unless the land, thus cleared of its cultivators, was so used as to 
throw any number of holdings together into the hands of one man, 
to " decay " farm-buildings or houses, to convert tillage into 
pasture, and so put do\vn ploughs, or to carry an illegal number 
of sheep. But open-field farmers were in a stronger position. The 
common rights, which each partner in the association enjoyed over 
the whole cultivated area of the village-farm, could only be ex- 
tinguished by agreement, real or enforced, among the commoners. 
Nor was this consent the only obstacle to enclosure which the 
system presented. The intermixture of the strips is recognised as 
a protection against enclosure by the ablest of the sixteenth century 
writers on the subject. In the Compendious or Briefe Examination 
both the Doctor and the Husbandman agree as to the difficulties 
which these two features of the open-field system threw in the way 
of any general enclosure. The same points are insisted upon by 
eighteenth century writers. It is not, of course, asserted that the 
difficulties of enclosing open-field farms were insuperable. Ever 
since the thirteenth century, village farms had been broken up, 
both by large landowners and comparatively small freeholders. 

1 Quoted from the Wilbraham MSS. at Delamere by F. R. Twemlow in The 
Twemlows : their Wives, and their Homes (1910), p. 17. 



72 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

But, before the enclosure acts of the eighteenth century, it was a 
slow and piecemeal process, by which the principal landlord, or 
some freeholder who was a partner in the farm, gradually con- 
solidated in his own hands the whole or a part of the commonable 
cultivated land, enclosed it, and freed it from common rights. No 
doubt the enclosure of uncultivated wastes injured the tenants 
of village farms, because it restricted the area of rough pasture 
grazed by their Hve-stock. Enclosures of this kind, carried out 
without leaving a sufficiency of common pasture, were the chief 
grievance of the peasantry in Kett's rebeUion in Norfolk. In 
this connection the re-enactment by Edward VI. of the statutes 
of Merton and Westminster,^ is significant. But the meaning is 
obscure. It may have been intended to increase the amount of 
tillage by bringing new land under the plough in exchange for that 
which had been laid down to grass. Except through the attack 
upon their pasture commons, it is reasonable to conclude that open- 
field farmers escaped the storm of sixteenth century enclosures 
more lightly than the less protected cultivators of demesnes and 
" assart " lands. This seems to have been the case. Bitter com- 
plaints were made against the enclosure of open-fields. But the 
outcry was practically confined to the corn-growing counties of the 
Midlands, which throughout the whole period were seething with 
discontent and insurrection. Yet even here, with the exception of 
Leicestershire, the enclosing movement cannot have, to any great 
extent, succeeded, since these are the very counties which, in the 
eighteenth century, still contained the largest proportion of " cham- 
pion " or open land. 

Advanced free-traders might agree with Raleigh that England, 
like Holland, could be wholly supplied with grain from abroad 
without troubling the people with tillage. Others of a less theo- 
retical turn of mind looked no further than the immediate distress 
which the abandonment of tillage produced. If the enclosing 
movement had been accompanied by a large extension of arable 
farming, the market for agricultural labour might have been so 
enlarged as substantially to relieve agrarian distress. But the 
extension of pasture and the substitution of a shepherd and his 
dog for the ploughmen and their teams only increased the scarcity 
of emplo3^ment. Tenant-farmers lost their leaseholds ; copy- 
holders were dispossessed of their holdings ; squatters and cottagers, 
1 3 and 4 Edward VI. c. 3. (See p. 38.) 



DISTRESS IN RURAL DISTRICTS 73 

who had eked out their harvest earnings by the produce of the 
hve-stock which they maintained on the commons, were ruined ; 
servants in husbandry and labourers for weekly wages were thrown 
out of work. The high prices of necessaries, combined with the loss 
of commons, the ravages of the murrain, and a succession of dry 
summers, had driven many small cultivators over the narrow 
border-Hne which separated them from starvation. Rents rose 
exorbitantly till, for farmers at rack-rent, existence became a 
misery. There was an ominous growth of middlemen, " lease- 
mongers, who take groundes by lease to the entente to lette them 
againe for double and tripple the rente," ^ and battened on the 
land-hunger of the people. Legislators were bewildered by currency 
questions, and violent changes in the standard purity of the gold 
and silver coinage aggravated the distress by raising or lowering 
prices. As gold and silver poured into the Old World from America, 
prices rose throughout Europe. The rise was in England attributed 
to every cause other than the cheapening of the precious metals. 
While from one or the other of these causes the purchasing power 
of wages rapidly diminished, their nominal value remained station- 
ary, and labourers were forced to accept the statutory rates. 

It was on those agriculturists who were unwilling or unable to 
adapt themselves to the times that the blow fell with the greatest 
severity. The Husbandman in the Compendious Examination knew 
several of his neighbours who had " turned ether part or all theire 
arable grounde into pasture, and therby have wexed verie Rich 
men." These were the men of whom Harrison and Sir Thomas 
Smith speak as " coming to such wealth that they are able and 
do daily buy lands of unthrifty gentlemen and make . . . their 
sons gentlemen." But the Husbandman himself, having " enclosed 
Utle or nothinge of my grownd, could never be able to make up 
my lorde's rent, weare it not for a litle brede of neate, shepe, swine, 
gese and hens." Hence it is that, while Latimer laments the 
degradation of small yeomen who, Hke his father, had farms of 
" three to four pounds a year at the uttermost," Harrison describes 
the rise of substantial farmers and of the middle classes, and their 
improved standard of Hving. The distribution of wealth was 
becoming more and more unequal ; the problem of poverty was 
acquiring a new significance. In the growing struggle for existence 

^Robert Crowley's Way to Wealth (1550). See also his Epigrams "of 
Leasemongars " and " of Rent raysers." 



74 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

it was possible for men, who were neither infirm nor idle, to lose 
their footing. Voluntary almsgiving was tried and proved inade- 
quate. Gradually and cautiously the legislators of the reign of 
Elizabeth were forced to apply the principle of compulsory pro- 
vision for the reHef of the necessitous.^ Previous legislation, in 
deahng with the impotent poor, had outlined the systems of local 
liabiHty and of settlement which were adopted in the later poor- 
laws ; but it had been mainly concerned with the suppression of 
those persons who were styled idle rogues and vagabonds. The 
object explains, though to modem ideas it cannot justify, the 
harshness of the law. Able-bodied men and women, who were 
willing to work but had lost their Hvehhood, were unknown to the 
legislators who had sketched the first poor-laws for the rehef of 
the impotent poor and the punishment of sturdy beggars {validi 
mendicantes) . Our ancestors did not discriminate closely between 
the different sources of poverty. To them, as is stated in the 
preamble to the statute of Henry VIII., ^ " ydlenes " was the 
" mother and rote of all vyces." The " great and excessive 
nombres " of idle rogues and vagabonds were a crying evil. To 
this class belonged the men who committed " contynuall theftes, 
murders, and other haynous offences, which displeased God, 
damaged the King's subjects, and disturbed the common weal of 
the realm." Apart from the committal of serious crime, the mass 
of idle vagrants was in country districts a nuisance and a danger. 
The kidnapping of children was not uncommon. Housewives were 
robbed of their hnen, and their pots and pans, or terrified by threats 
of violence into parting with their money. Horses were stolen 
from their paddocks, or, still more easily, from the open-field balks 
on which they were tethered ; pigs were taken from their styes, 
chickens and eggs from the henroosts. Men and women, as they 
returned ffom markets, were Avaylaid by sturdy ruffians. Shops, 
booths, and stalls were pilfered of their contents. Tippling-houses 
were converted into receivers' dens for stolen goods. The com- 
parative leniency of the laws of Henry VII. had failed ; therefore 
the evU must be stamped out with a severity which was not only 
unsentimental but ferocious. 

Here the interesting point is whether the ranks of idle rogues 

1 See Appendix II., The Poor Laws, 1601-1834. 

2 1530-1 (22 Henry VIII. c. 12) supplemented in 1536 by 27 Henry VIII. 
c. 25. 



UNEMPLOYED LABOUR 75 

were to any large extent swollen by agriculturists, driven to want 
and desperation by the loss of their holdings. The sturdy beggars, 
against whom Richard II. had legislated, had not the excuse of 
want of employment. They consisted, partly of disbanded soldiers 
who had so long followed the trade of war that they knew no 
other ; partly of men who had suffered that general moral deteriora- 
tion which often resulted from great catastrophes hke the successive 
visitations of the " Black Death." In the fifteenth century, the 
close of the French war and of the Wars of the Roses again recruited 
the ranks of idle poverty and crime. To them were added, at a 
later date, the disbanded retinues of great nobles, " the great 
flock or train," to quote More's Utopia, " of idle and loitering 
serving-men, which never learned any craft whereby to get their 
Hving." Finally, the suppression of the monasteries displaced and 
threw upon the world a large number of dependents, many of whom, 
from inclination or necessity, joined the army of sturdy beggars. 
Disbanded soldiers, discharged serving-men, and dismissed depend- 
ents of monastic institutions account for a formidable total of 
unemployed labour, without the addition of clothiers out of work 
or displaced agriculturists. But the evidence of More's Utopia 
cannot be ignored. The passage is familiar ^ in which he speaks 
of the husbandmen " thrust owte of their owne " by enclosures ; 
compelled to " trudge out of their knouen and accustomed howses " ; 
driven to a forced sale of their " housholde stuffe " and " con- 
strayned to sell it for a thyng of nought." " And when they have, 
wanderynge about, sone spent that, what can they els do but 
steale, and then justelye, God wote, be hanged, or els go about a 
beggyng ? And yet then also they be cast in prison as vagaboundes, 
because they go about and worke not ; whom no man will set a 
worke, though they never so wiUingly offer them selfes therto." 
More's eloquent appeal may have produced effect. In the year 
after the pubhcation of Utopia, the first and most important Com- 
mission was issued (1517-19) to enquire into the progress and results 
of enclosures in the twenty-four counties principally affected. The 
Returns of the Commissioners in Chancery are admittedly imperfect. 
But they justify the conclusion ^ that More's picture, though true 

1 Utopia, bk. i., ed. Lupton, pp. 53-4. 

^ Hypothetical tables based on these retiims have been constructed by- 
Mr. Gay, showing that the total number of persons displaced by enclosures 
during the period 1485-1517 did not much exceed 6931. See Johnson's 
Disappearance of the Small Landowner, p. 58. 



76 FARMING FOR PROFIT 

in particular instances, is as a general description of rural conditions 
too highly coloured. Dispossessed agriculturists undoubtedly con- 
tributed some proportion of the class which the Government grouped 
under the heading of idle rogues. Contemporary writers imply 
that the proportion was large : modern research, based on con- 
temporary enquiries and returns, suggests that it was relatively 
small. The evidence seems insufficient for a decision. In coping 
with a real evil, the Government attempted no classification. The 
innocent suffered with the guilty, and men and women, whether 
many or few, who had lost their means of hvelihood and were 
willing to work, were the victims of severe punishment designed 
for the class of professional vagabonds. 

Something is knowTi of the degrees, practices, and jargon of the 
EHzabethan fraternity of vagabonds. Awdelay and Harman ^ 
describe the " Abraham man," or " poor Tom," bare-legged and 
bare-armed, pretending madness; the "Upright man" with his staff, 
and the " Ruffler " with his weapon ; the " Fraters," Pedlars, and 
Tinkards ; the " priggars of Prauncers," or horse-stealers, in their 
leather jerkins ; the " Counterfet Cranke," feigning the falling sick- 
ness, with a piece of white soap in his mouth which made him foam 
hke a boar : the " Palhards," with their patched cloaks, and self- 
inflicted sores or wounds ; and many others of the twenty-three 
varieties, male and female, of the professional beggar. But even 
Harman seldom enquired into their previous life. Some, like the 
" Ruffler," had either " serued in the warres or bene a seruinge 
man " ; others, like the " Uprights," have been " serueing men, 
artificers, and laborjmg men traded up to husbandry." The 
" wild Roge " was a " begger by enheritance — his Grandfather was 
a begger, his father was one, and he must nedes be one by good 
reason." Few allusions can be gleaned from Shakespeare's writings 
to the agricultural changes which were taking place around him. 
But when we pass from the movement itself to some of the results 
which it helped to produce, his references are many and clear. The 
mass of " vagrom men " was a real social danger which exercised 
the wits of wiser men than Dogberry .^ 

1 The Fraternity of Vacabondes, by John Awdeley (1561) and A Caveat or 
Warening for Commen Curseters, by Thomas Harman (1567-8). 

^ Many of the types of beggars appear in Shakespeare's pages. There is 
Harman"s " Ruffler," " the worthiest of this unruly rablement " : 
" . . . fit to bandy with thy lawless sons 
To ruffle in the commonwealth of Rome." 

(Tit. Andr. Act i. So. 1, 11. 312-3.) 



SHAKESPEARE'S " VAGROM MEN " 77 

There is the " pedlar," the aristocracy of the profession, a clever plausible 
rascal like Autolycus. " The droncken tyncker " is represented by Christopher 
Sly — " by birth a pedlar ... by present profession a tinker " — drunk on 
the heath, and in debt for ale to Marian Hacket [Tarn. Sh. Ind. ii. 11. 19-22). 
There is the " prygger " or " prygman," who " haunts wakes, fairs, and 
bear-baitings " {Wint. Tale, Act iv. Sc. 2, 1. 109). There is Awdeley's " chop- 
logy ke," who gives " XX wordes for one," to whom Capulet likens his daughter 
Juliet {Rom. and Jul. Act iii. Sc. 5, 1. 150). There is Harman's " Rogue," 
or " Wild Rogue," in the " rogue forlorn," who shares the hovel and the straw 
with King Lear and the swine {Lear, Act iv. Sc. 7, 1. 39). Edgar, disguised 
as a madman and calling himself " poor Tom " {Lear, Act iii. Sc. 4, 1. 57), is 
Awdeley's " Abraham man," who " nameth himselfe ' poore Tom.'. . Whipped 
from tithing to tithing," he had only received the punishment to which an 
Elizabethan statute (39 Eliz. c. 4) sentenced " all fencers, bearwards, common 
players, and minstrels ; all jugglers, tinkers and petty chapmen," and other 
vagrants who were adjudged to be rogues, vagabonds, and sturdy beggars. 



CHAPTER IV. 
THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH. 

Paternal despotism : restoration of the purity of the coinage ; a definite 
commercial poUcy : revival of the wool trade : new era of prosperity 
among landed gentry and occupiers of land : a time of adversity for small 
landowners and wage-earning labourers : Statute of Apprentices ; hiring 
fairs ; growth of agricultural literature : Fitzherbert and Tusser ; their 
picture of Tudor farming : defects of the open-field system : experience of 
the value of enclosures ; improvement in farming : Bamaby Googe ; 
Sir Hugh Plat : progress in the art of gardening. 

The reign of Elizabeth marks a definite stage in English history. 
The mediaeval organisation of society, together with its trade 
guilds and manorial system of farming, had broken down. Out of 
the confusion order might be evolved by a paternal despotism. 
The Queen's advisers, with strong practical sagacity, set themselves 
to the task. They sate loosely to theories and rode no principles 
to death. But so firmly did they lay their foundations, that parts 
of their structure lasted until the nineteenth century. National con- 
trol displaced local control. The central power gathered strength: it 
directed the economic interests of the nation ; it regulated industrial 
relations ; through its legislation and administration it fostered the 
development of national resources. 

The restoration of the standard purity and weight of the coinage 
was resolutely taken m hand. Its debasement had been the cause 
of much of the economic distress in previous reigns ; credit was 
ruined, and the treasury bankrupt. The debased, sweated, and 
cHpped silver coinage was called in, and new coins were issued. As 
silver flowed into the country from the New World, the amount of 
money in circulation increased. More capital was available in a 
handy form, and, when legitimate interest ceased to be confused 
with usury, more people could borrow it on reasonable terms. The 
way was thus paved for a new era of commercial prosperity. 

In mediaeval times the whole external trade of the country had 



DEFINITE COMMERCIAL POLICY 79 

been in the hands of foreigners. EKzabeth followed and developed 
the commercial poHcy of England, which first assumed a dehberate 
continuous shape under Henry VII. Foreign traders were dis- 
couraged, and Enghsh merchants favoured. The Hanseatic League 
lost the last of its privileges ; the Venetian fleet came to England 
less and less frequently, and at last ceased altogether to fly its 
flag in the Channel. The import of manufactured goods was 
checked. The export of raw material and of EngHsh sheep was 
narrowly restricted, though long wool, as the staple of a great trade, 
was still sent abroad freely. The Government reahsed to the full 
all the abuses of patents and monopohes ; but they did not hesitate 
to grant both privileges in order to stimulate native enterprise. 
Companies were formed with, exclusive rights of trading in par- 
ticular countries. The oldest and most powerful of these Companies, 
the Merchant Adventurers, obtained a royal charter in 1564. The 
Muscovite, Levant or Turkey, Eastland or Baltic, and Guinea or 
African Companies were formed to push EngHsh trade in foreign 
parts. In 1600 the East India Company was chartered. The 
mercantile marine was encouraged by fishery laws, which gave 
EngHsh fishermen a monopoly in the sale of fish. Men who argued 
that abstinence from meat at certain seasons was good for the 
soul's health risked the stake or the rack ; but, for the sake of 
multiplying seamen, the Government did not hesitate to ordain 
fast-days on which only fish Avas to be eaten.^ To foster the home 
manufacture of cloth, it was made a penal offence for any person 
over the age of six not to wear on Sundays and holy days a cap 
made of EngHsh cloth. Stimulated by such methods, trade throve 
apace, and EngHsh goods were carried in EngHsh-built ships, owned 
by Englishmen, and manned by EngHsh seamen. While foreign 
merchants were discouraged, foreign craftsmen, especiaUy reHgious 
refugees from France or Flanders, were welcomed as settlers, 
bringing with them their skill in manufacturing paper, lace, silk, 
parchments, Hght woollens, hosiery, fustians, satins, thread, needles, 
and in other arts and industries. 

The EngHsh wool trade was restored to more than its former 

^ The rvde of eating fish twice a week was continued from Catholic times ; 
but a third day was added by Elizabeth from motives of " civile policy." 
" Accounting the Lent Season, and all fasting dales in the yeare, together 
with Wednesday and Friday and Saturday, you shall see that the one halfe 
of the yeare is ordeined to eate fish in " (Cogan, Haven of Helthe, ed. 1612, 
p. 138). 



80 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

prosperity. On it had long depended the commercial prosperity 
of the country. John Cole, " the rich clothier of Reading " at the 
end of the thirteenth century, was as famous as his fellow-craftsman, 
John Winchcomb, the warHke " Jack of Newbury," became in the 
days of Henry VIII. Wool was the chief source of the wealth of 
traders and of the revenues of the Crown. It controlled the foreign 
policy of England, supplied the sinews of our wars, built and 
adorned our churches and private houses. The foreign trade con- 
sisted partly in raw material, partly in semi-manufactured exports 
such as worsted yarns, partly in wholly manufactured broad-cloth. 
As the manufacture of worsted and cloth goods developed in this 
country, the demand and consumption rapidly increased at home. 
According to the purpose for which it was to be used, wool was 
divided into long and short. In England, long wool was employed 
mainly for worsted fabrics, but also to give strength and firmness 
to cloth. Abroad, it was eagerly bought in its raw state for both 
purposes. In long wool, or combing-wool, England had prac- 
tically a monopoly of the markets, and to it the export trade of 
raw material was almost exclusively confined. Short wool, on the 
other hand, was used for broad-cloth. In its raw state it had a 
formidable rival abroad in the fleeces of the Spanish merino. Only 
in the manufactured state did it compete with Flemish and French 
fabrics on the Continent, and often found itself unable, owing to 
the excellence of merino wool and the skill of foreign weavers, to 
maintain its hold on the home market. Wool-staplers were the 
middlemen. They bought the wool from the breeder, sorted it 
according to its quality, and sold it to the manufacturer. Dyer,^ 
two centuries later, describes theii" work : 

" Nimbly, with habitual speed, 
They sever lock from lock, and long and short. 
And soft, and rigid, pile in several heaps. 
This the dusk hatter asks ; another shines, 
Tempting the clothier ; that the hosier seeks ; 
The long bright lock is apt for airy stuffs : 

If any wool, peculiar to our isle. 

Is given by nature, 'tis the comber's lock, 

The soft, the snow-white, and the long-grown flake." 

In the long-wooled class Cotswold wool held the supremacy, with 
Cirencester as its centre, though the " lustres " of Lincolnshire 
always commanded their price. Among short-wools, Ryeland had 

1 The Fleece (1757), bk. ii ; 11. 83-88 and 445-47. 



CHANGE IN THE QUALITY OF WOOL 81 

the pre-eminence, with Leominster as the centre of its trade. 
" Lemster ore " was the equivalent of the " golden fleece " of the 
ancients, and poets compared the wool for its fineness to the 
web of the silk-worm, and for its softness to the cheek of a 
maiden. 

During the Tudor period, a change was passing over the wool 
trade, which may have influenced the labour troubles of the period 
as well as the policy of land-holders. As enclosures multipHed, 
sheep were better fed, and the fleece increased in weight and length, 
though it lost something of the fineness of its quality. In other 
words, the wool was less adapted for the manufacture of broad- 
cloth. The old pastures were also wearing out. During long and 
cold winters, if the sheep is half-starved, the fleece may retain its 
fineness, but it loses in strength. There also was a deterioration 
in the quahty of short wool. How far these considerations may 
have influenced pasture-farming is necessarily uncertain. But it 
is at least a coincidence that, in spite of the increase in the number 
of sheep, there was, in the early years of the Tudor period, con- 
siderable distress in the clothing trade. As the reign of Ehzabeth 
advanced, the great development of home manufactures provided 
a remedy. The newly established Merchant Companies opened up 
fresh markets abroad for Enghsh cloth. At the same time France 
and the Low Countries, distracted by civil or religious wars, ceased 
for the moment to be our rivals in the trade. Enghsh broad- 
cloths were exported abroad in increasing quantities. The suspen- 
sion of continental manufactures checked the exportation of Enghsh 
long wool. But again the religious troubles of the Continent 
reheved the situation. Foreign refugees settled in England, bring- 
ing with them secrets in the manufacture of worsted, fight woollen 
stuffs, and hosiery, for all of which Enghsh wool was specially 
adapted. 

Thus England was once more growing prosperous, and farming 
shared in the general prosperity. As the reign advanced, agri- 
cultural produce rose rapidly in price. The rise no longer depended 
on those fluctuations in the purity of the coinage, which had been 
so frequent that no man knew the real value of the coin in which he 
was paid. For a time the influx of silver had cheapened the precious 
metals, diminished their purchasing power, and so created dearness. 
But the great expansion of trade gradually absorbed the new 
supply of silver. The later rise in agricultural prices was due to 

F 



82 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

the relative scarcity of produce, which was caused by the increased 

consumption consequent on revived prosperity, by a higher standard 

of Hving, and by a growing poj)ulation. The necessary spur of 

profit was thus appHed to farming energies. Leaseholders for a 

long term or for hves, and copyholders at fixed quit-rents had their 

golden opportunity, and many of them used it to become wealthy. 

Of the general prosperity of the landowning and land-renting 

portion of the rural community, there is sufficient evidence. Every 

man, says Harrison,^ turned builder, " pulled downe the old house 

and set up a new after his owne devise." In ten years more oak 

was used for building than had been used in the previous hundred. 

Country manor-houses were built not of timber, but of brick or 

stone, and they were furnished with " great provision of tapistrie, 

Turkic work, pewter, brasse, fine Hnen and . . . costlie cupbords 

of plate." Ordinary diet had become less simple. " White-meats," 

— milk, butter, eggs, and cheese, — were despised by the wealthy, who 

preferred butcher's-meat, fish, and a " diversitie of wild and tame 

foules." The usual fare of the country gentleman was abundant, 

if not profuse. The dinner which Justice Shallow ordered for 

Falstaff might be quoted as an illustration. But more direct 

evidence may be produced. Harrison says that the everyday 

dinner of a country gentleman was " foure, five, or six dishes, when 

they have but small resort." Gervase Markham in his English 

Housewife gives directions for a " great feast," and for " a more 

humble feast, or an ordinary proportion which any good man may 

keep in his family, for the entertainment of his true and worthy 

friend." The " humble feast " includes " sixteen dishes of meat 

that are of substance and not emptie, or for shew." To these 

" sixteen full dishes," he adds " sallets, fricases, quelque choses, and 

devised paste, as many dishes more, which make the full service 

no lesse then two-and-thirtie dishes." In dress, also, the country 

gentry were growing more expensive, imitating the " diversities 

of jagges and changes of colours " of the Frenchman. Already, too, 

as Bishop Hall has described in his Satires, they were in the habit 

of deserting their country-houses for the gaiety of towns, and the 

" unthankful swallow " " built her circled nest " in 

" The towered chimnies which should be 
The windpipes of good hospitaHtie." 

Of the yeomen, who included not only farming owners, but 

^ Harrison, Description of England (1577), bk. ii. cc. vi. xii. xxii. 



PROSPERITY OF YEOMEN 83 

lessees for lives and copyholders, Harrison says that they " com- 
monUe live wealthilie, keepe good houses, and travell to get riches." ^ 
Their houses were furnished Avith " costhe furniture," and they had 
" learned also to garnish their cupbords with plate, their joined 
beds with tapistrie and silke hangings, and their tables with carpets 
and fine naperie." Though rents had risen and were still rising, 
" yet Avill the farmer thinke his gaines verie small toward the end 
of his terme if he have not six or seven yeares rent lieing by him, 
therewith to purchase a new lease, beside a faire garnish of pewter 
on his cupbord, three or foure featherbeds, so manie coverlids and 
carpets of tapistrie, a silver salt, a bowle for wine, and a dozzen of 
spoones to furnish up the sute." Old men noted these changes in 
luxurious habits — " the multitude of chimnies latelie erected," " the 
great amendment of lodging," and " the exchange of vessel as of 
treene platters into pewter and wodden spoones into silver or tin." 
Writing of the Cheshire yeomen in 1621, William Webb says : ^ 
" In building and furniture of their houses, till of late years, they 
used the old manner of the Saxons ; for they had their fire in the 
midst of the house against a hob of clay, and their oxen also under 
the same roof ; but within these forty years it is altogether altered, 
so that they have built chimnies, and furnished other parts of their 
houses accordingly. . . . Touching their housekeeping it is 
bountiful and comparable with any shire in the realm. And that 
is to be seen at their weddings and burials, but chiefly at their 
wakes, which they yearly hold . . . for this is to be understood 
that they lay out seldom any money for any provision but have 
it of their own, as beef, mutton, veal, pork, capons, hens, wild fowl, 
and fish. They bake their own bread and brew their own drink. 
To conclude, I know divers men, who are but farmers, that in their 
housekeeping may compare with a lord or a baron in some countries 
beyond the seas. Yea, although I named a higher degree, I were 
able to justify it." In the Isle of Wight, Sir John Oglander^ com- 
pares the state of the country at the close of Elizabeth's reign with 
that at the outbreak of the Civil War. At the former period he 
says that " Money wase as plentiful in yeomens purses as nowe 
in ye beste of ye genterye, and all ye genterye full of monyes and 
owt of debt." 

^ Description, bk. ii. ch. v. 

■ Quoted in King's Vale Royal (1778), vol. i. pp. 30, 31. 

3 Oglander Memoirs (1595-1648), p. 55. 



84 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

The smaU copyholder's house is described by Bishop Hall as 
being : 

" Of one bay's breadth, God wot, a silly cote 
Whose thatched spars are furred with sluttish soote 
A whole inch thick, shining hke blackmoor's brows 
Through smoke that downe the headlesse barrel blows. 
At his bed's feete feeden his stalled teame. 
His swine beneath, his pullen o'er the beanie." 

The outside walls were made of timber uprights and cross-beams, 
forming raftered panels which were thickly daubed with clay. 
But the fare which the smaU copyholder enjoyed was at least as 
plentiful as that of landless labourers in modern times. In one of 
the Elizabethan pastoral poems a noble huntsman finds shelter 
under a shepherd's roof. The food, even if something is allowed 
for Arcadian hcence, was good, though, in the language of the day, 
it consisted mamly of " white meat." The guest was supplied 
with the best his host could provide : 

" Browne bread, whig, bacon, curds, and milke. 
Were set him on the borde." 

Fresh butcher's meat was rarely seen on the table. Of the " Martyl- 

mas beef," hung from the rafters and smoked, Andrew Borde ^ 

thought httle. If, he says, a man have a piece hanging by his side 

and another in his belly, the piece which hangs by his side does 

him more good, especially if it is rainy weather. Bacon, souse, and 

brawn were the peasant's meat. " Potage," Borde elsewhere writes, 

'' is not so moch used in all Crystendom as it is used in England." 

It was part of the staple diet of the peasant, whether made of the 

hquor in which meat had been boiled, thickened ^vith oatmeal, and 

flavoured with chopped herbs and salt, or made from beans or 

pease. Oatmeal porridge, and " fyrmente," made of milk and 

wheat, were largely used. His bread was generally made of wheat 

and rye, often mixed, as Best states,^ with pease — a peck of pease 

to a bushel of rye, or two pecks of pease to the same quantity of 

rye and wheat. Even " horse-bread," as Borde calls it,^ made of 

pease and beans, was better than the mixture of acorns which 

Harrison says ^ was eaten in times of dearth. Yet the husbandman 

had his f eastings, such as " bridales, purifications of women and 

such od meetings, where it is incredible to tell what meat is 

consumed and spent." 

4 

^ Andrew Borde's Dyetary (1542), ch. xvi. " Farming Book, p. 104. 

^ Borde's Dyetary, ch. xi. * Description, ch. vi. 



NEW BUYERS OF LAND 85 

The prosperity of the rural community was not universal. For 
many of the smaller gentry, and for day-labourers for hire, times 
were hard. Landowners, whose income was more or less stationary, 
suffered from the rise in prices, accompanied, as it was, by a higher 
standard of luxury. When leases fell in, or lives were renewed, or 
copyholders were admitted, rents might be increased or fines 
enhanced. But in an extravagant age, when country gentlemen 
began to be attracted to London, such opportunities, if the tenants 
belonged to a healthy stock, might come too rarely or too late. 
Many owners were compelled to sell their estates. Land was often 
in the market. Thus two opposing tendencies characterised the 
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. The division of church lands 
among grantees who aheady owned estates strengthened the landed 
aristocracy, while continual sales democratised the ownership of 
land. It is said that only 330 families can trace their titles to land 
beyond the dissolution of the monasteries. In the two centuries 
that followed, few of the gentry retained their hold on their estates, 
unless they were enriched by wealthy marriages, by trade, or by 
the practice of the law. The buyers generally belonged to the 
rising middle classes. Harrison, in his Description of England} 
says that yeomen, " for the most part farmers to gentlemen," by 
attention to their business " do come to great welth in somuch that 
manie of them are able and doo buie the lands of unthriftie gentle- 
men." Fynes Moryson, in his Itinerary ^ (1617) notes that the Eng- 
hsh " doe . . daily sell their patrimonies, and the buyers (except- 
ing Lawyers) are for the most part Citizens and vulgar Men." Sir 
Simon Degge^ (1669), a learned lawyer, declares that in Stafford- 
shire, during the past sixty years, half the land had passed into 
the possession of new men. He attributes this change of ownership, 
partly to divine punishment for the sacrilege of those who were 
grantees of ecclesiastical property, partly to the extravagance of 
the country gentry who now took pleasure in spending their estates 
in London. He makes these comments on Erdeswick's Survey 
of Staffordshire, drawn up between 1593 and 1603, and goes on to 
say that there were then in the county only " three citizen owners " 

1 Bk. ii. ch. V. The Description was published in 1577. The same 
passage occurs in Sir Thomas Smith's De Republica Anglorum, bk. i. ch. xxiii. 
pubhshed in 1583. 

2 Part III. bk. iii. ch. iii. 

' Degge's Letter is printed as a supplement to Erdeswick's Survey of 
Staffordshire in the edition of 1717. 



86 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

of land, and that now, in 1669, there were three Barons, four 
Baronets, and twenty calling themselves Esquires who had bought 
estates with money made in trade. Similar is the evidence of the 
compiler of Angliae Notitia ^ (1669). " The English," he says, 
" especially the Gentry are so much given to Prodigality and Sloth- 
fulness that Estates are oftnei- spent and sold than in any other 
Countrey . . . whereby it comes to passe that Cooks, Vintners, 
Innkeepers, and such mean Fellows, enrich themselves and begger 
and insult over the Gentry . . . not only those but Taylors, Dancing 
Masters and such Trifling Fellows arrive to that Riches and Pride, 
as to ride in their Coaches, keep their Summer Houses, to be served 
in Plate, etc. an insolence insupportable in other well-go vem'd 
Nations." 

Another class, that of labourers, suffered from the dearness of 
agricultural produce, because their wages were fixed by law, and 
only by slow degrees folloAved the upward tendency of prices. In 
some respects the worst evils of the period 1485-1558 were passing 
away, or were modified by the expansion of trade. Enclosures 
still continued. Acts of Parhament^ were still passed against the 
decaying of towns and against the substitution of pasture for 
tillage, and one of the most vehement of protests against enclosures, 
was made by Francis Trigge,^ in 1604. But land was now more 
frequently enclosed for arable farming, and there was consequently 
less displacement of labour. The great extension of gardens 
attached to country houses provided new occupations. Industries 
hke spinning, weaving, and rope-makmg, which were previously 
confined to particular towns by the craft-organisations of guilds, 
spread into rural districts, and employed villagers in supplying not 
merely their domestic wants but the needs of manufacturers. 
Agriculturally, a change was taking place in the labourer's condi- 
tion. For the cultivation of the soil, farmers, except in the North 
and East, looked less to servants in husbandry and more to the day- 
labourers, whose wages assumed a new importance in the assess- 
ments of the Justices of the Peace. As the prices of agricultural 
produce rose, and as, here and there, the improvement of roads 
brought new markets within the reach of farmers, it was cheaper 

1 In the 1692 edition of Angliae Notitia the words "Prodigality, Sports, 
and Pastimes " are substituted for " Prodigality and Slothfulness." 

^ 1562-3, 5 Eliz. c. 2 ; 1597-8, 39 Eliz. cc. 1 and 2 ; 1601, 43 EUz. c. 9. 
' The Humble Petition of Two Sisters : the Church and Common-wealth. 



LABOURERS AND THEIR WAGES 87 

to pay wages to hired labourers than to board agricultural servants, 
especially if, as Tusser says, they required roast meat on Sundays 
and Thursdays. Free labour, sometimes, but not invariably, 
still associated with the occupation of land, was becoming in the 
southern and midland counties the chief agent in cultivating the 
soil. Where enclosures were fewest, the largest number of labourers 
supplemented their wages by the profits of their land, their rights 
of common, and their goose-runs. Where enclosures were most 
extensive, those labourers were most numerous who were dependent 
only on their labour-power. Apparently there was difficulty in 
lodging this increasing class of landless labourers, and an attempt 
was made to use existing cottages as tenement houses. The Govern- 
ment endeavoured to check these tendencies by legislation.^ Not 
more than one family was allowed to occupy each cottage, and to 
every cottage four acres of land were to be attached. 

But the most important attempt to regulate the labour-market 
was the Statute of Apprentices (1563).^ This industrial code 
'' touching divers orders for artificers, labourers, servants of 
husbandry, and apprentices " deals with labour in the towns as 
well as in the country. It was framed, partly as a consoHdating 
Act, partly because, as the Preamble states, the allowances 
Limited in previous legislation had, owing to the advance in 
prices, become too small. It was passed in the hope that its 
administration would " banish idleness, advance husbandry, and 
yield unto the hired person both in the time of scarcity and in 
the time of plenty a convenient proportion of wages." It pro- 
ceeds on the old Lines that men could be compelled to work. But 
it contemplates a minimum wage at the rates current in the 
district, estabhshes a working day for summer and winter, and 
endeavours to provide for technical instruction by a system of 
apprenticeship. Any person between the age of twelve and sixty, 
not excepted by the Statute, could be compelled to labour in 
husbandry. All engagements, except those for piecework, were to 
be for one year. Masters unduly dismissing servants were fined. 
Servants unduly leaving masters were imprisoned. No servant 
could leave the locahty where he was last employed without a 
certificate of lawful departure. Hours of labour were twelve hours 
in the summer and during dayhght in winter. Wages were to be 
annually fixed by the Justices of the Peace, after considering the 
1 1589, 31 Eliz. c. 7. '^ 1562-3, 5 Eliz. c. 4. 



88 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

circumstances, in consultation with " such grave and discreet 
persons as they shall think meet." No higher wages than those 
settled under the assessment were to be given, or received, under 
severe penalties. At harvest time, artificers and persons " meet 
to labour " might be compelled to serve at the mowing or " inning " 
of hay and corn. Persons over twelve and under eighteen might 
be taken as apprentices in husbandry and compelled to serve till 
the age of twenty-one. By agreement the age might be extended 
to twenty-four. 

Under the provisions of this Statute agricultural labourers and 
servants were engaged annually. Shortly before Martinmas, the 
chief constable of the division sent out notices that he would sit 
at a certain town or village on a given day, and required the pettj' 
constables to attend with Hsts of the masters and servants in their 
districts. At the appointed place and time the chief constable met 
his subordinates and the masters : the servants also assembled, all 
" cladde," as Henry Best describes them,^ " in their best apparrell," 
in the market square, the churchyard, or some other public place. 
The chief constable took the lists, called each master in turn accord- 
ing to the entries, and asked him whether he was wilhng to set such 
and such a servant at liberty. If the master rephed in the negative, 
the constable stated what were the wages fixed by the Justices, 
received a penny fee from the master, and bound the servant for a 
second term of a year. If the answer was in the affirmative, the 
constable received from the servant a fee of twopence, and gave him 
his certificate of lawful departure. Meanwhile masters who wished 
to hii'e labourers, whether men or women, walked about among the 
assembled crowd in order to choose likely-looking servants. When 
a master had made his choice, his first enquiry was whether the man 
was at liberty. If the servant had his ticket, the master tookiiim 
aside, and asked where he was born, where he was last employed, 
and what he could do. Best once heard the answer : 

" I can so we, 
I can mowe, 
And I can stacke, 
And I can doe 
My master too. 
When my master turnes his backe." 

If the last employer was present at the sitting, he was sought out, 

^ Rural Economy in Yorkshire in 1641, being the Farming and account Books 
of Henry Best (Surtees Society, vol. xxxiii. 1857), pp. 132-6. 



BIRTH OF AGRICULTURAL LITERATURE 89 

and asked whether the man-servant was " true and trustie . . . 
gentle and quiett . . . addicted to company-keepinge or noe," or 
whether the woman-servant was a good milker, not " of a sluggish 
and sleepie disposition for dainger of fire." Then followed the 
bargaining for wages. Sometimes the servant asked for a " gods- 
penny " on striking the bargain, " or an old suite, a payre of breeches, 
an olde hatte, or a payre of shoes ; and mayde servants to have an 
apron, smocke, or both." Sometimes it was a condition to have so 
many sheep wintered and summered with the master's flock, and to 
have the twopence which was paid for the certificate refunded 
before handing over the ticket to the new master. Once hired, 
the servant could not leave the master, nor the master dismiss the 
servant, without a quarter's warning. In Yorkshire a servant 
liked to come to a new place on Tuesday or Thursday. Monday 
was counted an unlucky day, and the proverb ran : 

" Monday flitte 
Never sitte." 

Farming annals are comparatively silent as to the conditions in 
which day-labourers for hire Hved in the reign of Elizabeth. But 
in one respect, as has been said, they undoubtedly shared the 
general prosperity. Though their wages remained low, and only 
fitfully rose as the purchasing power of money declined, they were 
more secure of employment. In the increased demand for labour 
resulting from improved methods of agriculture lay their best 
hopes for the future. It is probable that the decay and ultimate 
dissolution of the monasteries had for the time inflicted a heavy 
blow on the development of agriculture as an art. To English 
farming in the early centuries the monks were what capitahst land- 
lords became in the eighteenth century. They were the most 
scientific farmers of the day : they had access to the practical 
learning of the ancients ; their intercourse with their brethren 
abroad gave them opportunities of benefiting by foreign experience 
which were denied to their lay contemporaries. Already, however, 
there were signs that their places as pioneers would be occupied. 
Throughout Europe agricultural hterature was commencing, and 
writers were at work urging upon farmers the improved methods 
which enclosure revealed to them. In Italy Tarello and the 
translators of Crescentius, in the Low Countries Heresbach, in France 
Charles Estienne and Bernard Palissy, in England Fitzherbert and 
Tusser, wrote upon farming. It was not long before the gentry 



90 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

began to pay attention to agriculture. As Michel cle I'Hopital 
solaced his exile with a farm at Etampes, so Sir E-ichard Weston 
in the reign of Charles I., and Townshend in that of George II., 
occupied their leisure in farming, and in their retirement conferred 
greater benefits on the well-being of England than they had ever 
done by their political activities. 

Up to the sixteenth century Walter of Henley's farmmg treatise 
had held the field. Now it was superseded. In 1523 apjDcared the 
Boke of Husbandrye, " compyled," as Berthelet says in his edition 
of 1534, "sometyme by mayster FitzHerbarde, of Charytie and good 
zele that he bare to the weale of this moost noble realme, whiche he 
dydde not in his you the, but after he had exercysed husbandry with 
greate experyence XL yeres." In the same year was also printed, 
by the same author, the Boke of Surveyinge and Improvements. 
The Book of Husbandry is a minutely practical work on farming, 
written by a man familiar with the Peak of Derbyshire and by a 
horsebreeder on a large scale who possessed " 60 mares or more." 
The Book of Surveying is a treatise on the relations of landlord and 
tenant and on the best methods of developing an estate. Only 
an experienced farmer could have written the first ; the second 
required no greater acquaintance with law than might be acquired 
by a shrewd lando^vner in the administration of an estate. The 
authorship of the two books has been claimed for Anthony Fitz- 
herbert, who was knighted in 1521-2 on becoming a Justice of the 
Common Pleas, and also for his elder brother John Fitzherbert.^ 
It is difficult to credit the Judge — immersed in judicial and political 
duties, and absorbed in the composition of legal works — with the 
practical knowledge of farming displayed in the Book of Husbandry. 

1 The dispute as to the authorship of the Books of Husbandry and Surveying 
is ancient. Professor Skeat (Introduction to the Book of Husbandry, English 
Dialect Society, 1882), and Mr. Rigg (Dictionary of National Biography) 
champion Sir Anthony : the Rev. Reginald Fitzherbert (English Historical 
Review, April, 1897), Sir Ernest Clarke, whose knowledge of agricultural 
bibliography is unrivalled (Transactions of Bibliog. Soc. 1896, p. 160), and 
Mr. Gay (Quarterly Journal of Economics, 1904) support the elder brother, 
John. The Catalogue of the British Museum now attributes the authorship 
of both books to John Fitzherbert. Berthelet, who printed the edition of 
1534, speaks of the author, in the passage quoted in the text, as though he 
were dead. This would be true of John Fitzherbert, who died in 1531, but 
not of Sir Anthony, who lived till 1538. The "XL yeres " experience, from 
which the author wrote, could not be claimed by Sir Anthony in 1523 ; it 
might well have belonged to John, who was his elder brother. It is known 
that John Fitzherbert was for four years a student at the Inns of Court, 
where he might have laid the foundation of his legal knowledge. 



FITZHERBERT AND TUSSER 91 

It is much less difficult to imagine that John Fitzherbert should 
combine minute experience of agricultural details with a sufficient 
knowledge of law to write the Book of Surveying. At any rate, 
the Book of Husbandry became, and for more than half a century 
remained, a standard work on English farming. 

Thirty-four years later appeared Thomas Tusser's Hundreth Good 
Pointes of Hushandrie (1557). The work was afterwards expanded 
into Five Hundreth Pointes of Good Hushandrie, united to as many 
Good Pointes of Huswifery (1573). Like Fitzherbert, Tusser was a 
champion of enclosures, and his evidence is the more valuable 
because he was not only an Essex man, a Suffolk and a Norfolk 
farmer, but began to write Avhen the agitation against enclosures in 
the eastern counties was at its height. His own Hfe proved the diffi- 
culty of combining practice with science, or farming with poetry. 
" He spread his bread," says Fuller, " with all sorts of butter, yet 
none would ever stick thereon." He was successively " a musician, 
schoolmaster, serving-man, husbandman, grazier, poet — more skilful 
in all than thriving in his vocation." To the present generation he 
is Httle more than a name. But his doggerel poems are a rich 
storehouse of proverbial wisdom, and of information respecting 
the rural Hfe, domestic economy, and agricultural practices of our 
Elizabethan ancestors. His work Avas repeatedly reprinted. It is 
also often quoted by subsequent writers, as, for example, by Henry 
Best in his Farming Book (1641), by Walter Blith in his English 
Improver Improved (1649), and by Worhdge in the Systema Agri- 
culturae (1668-9). The practical parts of the poem were edited in 
1710 by David Hillman under the title of Tusser Redivivus, with a 
commentary which continually contrasts Elizabethan practices 
with those of farmers in the reign of Queen Anne. When Lord 
Molesworth in 1723 proposed the foundation of agricultural schools, 
he advised that Tusser's " Five hundred points of good husbandry " 
should be " taught to the boys to read, to copy and get by heart." 

From the pages of Fitzherbert and Tusser may be gathered a 
picture of Tudor agriculture at the time when Ehzabeth came to 
the throne. But even in this Hterature, which probably represents 
the most progressive theory and practice of farming, it is difficult 
to trace any important change, still less any distinct advance on 
thirteenth century methods. Here and there, on the contrary, 
there are signs that farmers had gone backwards instead of forwards. 
Agricultural implements remained unaltered. Ploughs were still 



92 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

the same heavy, cumbrous instruments, though several varieties 

are mentioned as adapted to the different soils of the country. But 

Fitzherbert was familiar with the same device for regulating the 

depth and breadth of furrows, which was one of the most notable 

improvements in the eighteenth century ploughs. Oxen were still 

preferred to horses for ploughing purposes by both Fitzherbert and 

Tusser. Iron was more used in the construction of ploughs ; both 

share and coulter were more generally of iron, and the latter was 

well steeled. Iron also entered more largely into the building of 

waggons. Instead of the broad wheels made entirely of wood, 

Fitzherbert recommends narrower wheels, bound with iron, as more 

lasting and lighter in the draught. So long as artificial grasses 

and roots were unknown, the farmer's year necessarily remained 

the same — its calendar of seasonable operations regulated by the 

recurrence of saints' days and festivals, and controlled by a belief 

in planetary influences as unscientific as that of Old Moore or Zadkiel. 

Since the Middle Ages, the only addition to agricultural resources 

had been hops, introduced into the eastern counties from Flanders 

at the end of the fifteenth century. The date 1524, which is usually 

given for their introduction, is too late ; so also is the rhyme, of 

which there are several variations : 

" Hops, reformation, bays, and beer. 
Came into England all in one year." 

Hops were apparently unknown in 1523 to Fitzherbert in Derby- 
shire ; but in 1552 they were sufficiently important to be made the 
subject of special legislation by Edward VI. In Tusser's day they 
were extensively cultivated in Suffolk. On enclosed land their 
cultivation rapidly increased. Harrison (1577) questions whether 
any better are to be found than those grown in England. 
Reginald Scot, himseff a man of Kent, published his Perfite 
Platforme of a Hoppe Garden in 1574, with minute instructions 
for the growing, picking, drying and packing of hops. The 
book was reprinted in 1575, and again in 1576. It was still the 
standard work in 1651. In Hartlib's Legacie it is called " an 
excellent Treatise, to the which httle or nothing hath been added, 
though the best part of an hundred years are since past." 

Fitzherbert starts his Book of Husbandry with the month of 
January. But Tusser begins his farmer's year at Michaelmas as 
the usual date of entry. Both writers note that an open-field farmer 
entered by custom on his fallows on the preceding Lady-Day, in 



CORN CROPS ON TUDOR FARMS 93 

order that he might get or keep them in good heart for his autumn 
sowing. As the Juhan Calendar was still in force, the dates are 
twelve days earher than they would be under the present Gregorian 
Calendar. Even with this difference, few farmers of to-day would 
accept Tusser's advice to sow oats and barley in January ; they 
would be more likely to agree with Fitzherbert that the beginning 
of March is soon enough. All wheat and rye were sown in the 
autumn, — from August onwards, — and the heaviest grain was 
selected for seed by means of the casting shovel. Neither of the 
writers speak of spring wheat, possibly because the preparation for 
it would not fit in with the rigid rules of open-field farming ; but 
both mention other varieties in the three corn crops. Fitzherbert 
thinks that red wheat, sprot barley, and red oats are the best, and 
peck wheat, bere barley, and rough oats the worst varieties. Mixed 
crops were popular, such as dredge, or barley and oats ; bolymong, 
or oats, pease, and vetches ; and wheat and rye. As to the mixed 
sowing of wheat and rye, the authors differ. Probably their 
respective experiences in Derbyshire and Suffolk diverged. Fitz- 
herbert advises that wheat and rye should be sown together, as the 
blend makes the safest crop and the best for the husbandman's 
household ; but he recommends that white wheat be chosen because 
it is the quickest to arrive at maturity.^ He was therefore no 
believer in the slowness of rye to ripen. Tusser, on the other hand, 
condemns the practice of sowing the two corns together because of 
the slow maturity of rye as compared with the relative rapidity 
of wheat. If they are to be blended, he says, let it be done by the 
miller. The seed was to be covered in as soon as possible. On 
the time-honoured question whether rooks are greater malefactors 
than benefactors, — whether they prefer grubs and worms to grain, — 
neither writer has any doubt. Both give their verdict against the 
bird, in the spirit of the legislation of their day.^ As soon as the 
corn is in, says Fitzherbert, it should be harrowed, or " croues, 
doues, and other Byrdes wyll eate and beare away the cornes." 
Tusser advises that girls should be armed with slings, and boys 
with bows, " to scare away pigeon, the rook, and the crow." Both 
writers urge the preparation of a fine tilth for barley, — in rural 

^ Henry Best, writing a century later (1641), preferred "Kentish wheate 
... or that which (hereabouts) is called Dodde-reade " (Farming Book, 
p. 45). 

^E.g. 24 Hen. VIII. c. 10; 8 Eliz. c. 15. 



94 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

phrase " as fine as an ant-hill," — and advise that it should be rolled. 

Tusser recommends that wheat should also be rolled, if the land 

is sufficiently dry. For seeding, Fitzherbert adopts the mediaeval 

rule of two bushels of wheat and rye to the acre. AH seeds were 

scattered broadcast by the hand from the hopper. Neither writer 

mentions the dibbing of beans, though that useful practice had been 

introduced by thirteenth century farmers. For barley, oats, and 

" cod ware," Fitzherbert recommends a thicker seeding than was 

practised in mediaeval farming. The best yield per acre is obtained 

from moderate or thin sowing. But it has been suggested that 

Ehzabethan farmers more often allowed their land to become foul, 

and that crops were more thickly sown in the hope of saving them 

from being smothered. The suggestion is perhaps confirmed by 

the space which Fitzherbert devotes to Aveeds, and by his careful 

description of the most noxious plants. At harvest, wheat and rye 

were generally cut with the sickle, and barley and oats were mown 

with the scythe. Fitzherbert advises that corn ricks should be 

built on scaffolds and not on the ground. In the eighteenth century 

the advice was still given and still unheeded. 

In their treatment of drainage and manure, neither author makes 

any advance on mediaeval practice. To prevent excessive wetness, 

both advise a water-furrow to be drawn across the ridges on the 

lowest part of the land ; but neither describes the shallow drains, 

filled with stones, and covered in with turf, which were familiar to 

farmers in the Middle Ages. Mole-heaps, if carefully spread, are 

not an unmixed evil. But when Tusser champions the mole as a 

useful drainer of wet pastures, it is evident that the science of 

draining was j'et unborn. In choice of manure, neither writer 

appears to command the resources of his ancestors. The want of 

fertihsing agencies was then, and may even now prove to be, one 

of the obstacles to small holdings. At the present day the small 

cultivator can, if he has money enough, buy chemical manures, and, 

unlike his Elizabethan ancestor, he no longer uses his straw or the 

dung of his cattle as fuel. But when chemical manures were 

unknown, it was imperatively necessary to employ all natural 

fertilisers. Fitzherbert does indeed deplore the disappearance of 

the practice of marling. ^ But Tusser does not mention the value 

1 Arthur Standish, writing in 1611, says that straw and dung were used 
as fuel {The Covimons Complaint, p. 2), and Markham (Enrichment of the 
Weald of Kent) shows the antiquity of the practice of marling by saying that 
trees of 200 or 300 years old may be seen in " innumerable " spent marl-pits. 



SHEEP ON OPEN-FIELD FARMS 95 

of marl, lime, chalk, soot, or town refuse, all of which were used in 
the Middle Ages, and it is doubtful whether mediaeval farmers 
followed his practice of rotting straw in pits filled with water, or of 
carting manure on to the land and leaving it in heaps for a month 
before it was spread or ploughed in. One new practice, and that 
a miserable one, is recommended. It is suggested that buck-wheat 
should be sown and ploughed in, in order to emich the soil. 

Both Tusser and Fitzherbert advise that on open-field land the 
sheep should be folded from May to early in September. But 
Fitzherbert believed that folding fostered the scab. Among the 
practical advantages of enclosures which he urges is the opportunity 
that they afforded to farmers of dispensing mth the common fold, 
saving the fees to the common shepherd and the cost of hurdles and 
stakes, and keeping their flocks in better health. June was the 
month for shearing. Fitzherbert recommends that sheep should 
be carefully washed before they were shorn, " the which shall be 
to the owner greate profyte " in the sale of his wool. Probably 
the modern farmer has found that his unwashed wool at a greater 
weight but a lower price is worth as much as his washed wool at 
less weight and a higher price. Fitzherbert considers sheep to be 
" the most profitable cattle that any man can have." But, until 
the introduction of turnips, the true value of sheep on arable land 
could not be realised. Hence the two branches of farming, which 
are now combined with advantage to both the sheep farmer and 
the corn-grower, were entirely dissevered. Until clover, artificial 
grasses, turnips, swedes, mangolds took their place among the 
ordinary crops for which arable land was cultivated, no farmer 
experienced the full truth of the saying that the foot of the sheep 
turns sand into gold. The practice of milking ewes still continued. 
Fitzherbert condemns it ; but Tusser, though he notices the injuri- 
ous results, weakens the effect of his warning by promising that 
five ewes will give as much milk as one cow. Neither Fitzherbert 
nor Tusser has anything to say on the improvement of breeds of 
cattle for the special purposes that they serve. The " general 
utiHty " animal was still their ideal. Yet the root of the matter is 
in Fitzherbert, when he says that a man camiot thrive by corn 
unless he have live-stock, and that the man who tries to keep live- 
stock without corn is either " a buyer, a borrower, or a beggar." 
If once the difficulty of winter keep could be solved, here was the 
secret of mixed husbandry realised, and the truth of the maxim 



96 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

verified that a full bullock yard makes a full stack-yard. On 
horses and horse-dealing Fitzherbert is full of shrewdness. He 
defines the horse-master, the " corser " and the " horse leche." 
" And whan these three be mette," he dryly observes, '' if yeh adde 
a poty-carye to make the fourthe, ye myghte have suche foure, 
that it were harde to truste the best of them." 

The times at which Fitzherbert and Tusser respectively wTote give 
special interest to their championship of enclosures. As has been 
already noticed, both wrote when the agitation against the progress 
of the movement was at its height, and Tusser was famihar with 
the eastern counties at the moment of Kett's insurrection in Norfolk. 
As practical farmers both writers insist on the evils of the open- 
field system ; but it fell within the province of neither to criticise 
the tyrannical proceedings by which those evils were often remedied . 
They rather dwell on the superior yield of enclosed lands, ^ and on 
the obstacles to successful farming presented by open-fields — the 
perpetual disputes, the damage to crops, the waste of land by the 
multitude of drift-ways, the cost of swineherds, cowherds, and 
shepherds who were employed as human fences to the com and 
meadows. Incidentally also they reveal many practical difficulties 
of the open-field farmer in ploughing and draining. During the 
winter months, he was obhged to bring his hve-stock in sooner, 
keep them longer, and feed them at greater cost, than his neighbour 
on enclosed land. For winter keep, when his hay and straw were 
running out, he had nothing to rely on but "browse" or tree- 
loppings. In rearing live-stock he was heavily handicapped. 
Unless he had pasture of his owti, he was forced to time his lambs 
to fall towards the middle of March. Hence the proverb : 

" At St. Luke's day (Oct. 18, Greg. Cal.) 
Let tup have play." 

Thus he risked losing lambs because the common shepherd had too 
much on his hands at once ; his lambs lost a month on the meadow 
before it was put up for hay ; and the owner missed the profits of 
an early sale at Helenmas (May 21), and had to sell, if he sold 
at aU, at the same time as aU other open-field farmers. The same 
restrictions hampered him in rearing calves. He could not afford 
to keep the cow and calf in the winter ; therefore he was obhged 
to time the caK to come after Candlemas. 

These and other disadvantages convinced practical agriculturists 

^ See ch. iii. pp. 65-66. 



AGRICULTURAL ADVANTAGES OF ENCLOSURES 97 

of the inferiority of the open-field system. Experience was in 
favour of enclosures. Fitzherbert points to the prosperity of Essex 
as an example of the advantage of enclosures. The author of the 
Compendious or Brief e Examination says that " the countries where 
most enclosures be are most wealthie, as Essex, Kent, Deven- 
shire." So also Tusser compares " champion " (open) counties, 
like Norfolk and Cambridgeshire, with " enclosed " counties, hke 
Essex and Suffolk and says that the latter have 

" More plenty of mutton and biefe. 

Come, butter, and cheese of the best, 
More wealth anywhere, to be briefe. 

More people, more handsome and prest. ..." 

The proverbial expression " Suffolk stiles " seems to point to the 
early extinction of open-fields. Norden in his Essex Described ^ 
(1594) calls the county the " Englishe Goshen, the fattest of the 
Lande ; comparable to Palestina, that flowed with milke and 
hunnye." So " manie and sweete " were the " commodeties " of 
Essex, that they compensated for the "moste cruell quarterne fever " 
which he caught among its low-lying lands. Every practical argu- 
ment that could be pleaded against open-field farms in the days 
of Henry VIII. or EUzabeth might be urged against the system 
with treble force from the end of the eighteenth century onwards, 
when farming had grown more scientific, when new crops had been 
introduced, when drainage had been reduced to a science, and when, 
under the pressure of a rapidly increasing population, farms were 
becoming factories of bread and meat. 

Enclosures undoubtedly assisted farming progress. Before the 
end of the reign the effect of the movement, combined with increased 
facihties of communication, is distinctly visible. Under the spur 
which individual occupation and better markets gave to enter- 
prise, " the soil," as Harrison says, " had growne to be more 
fruitful, and the countryman more painful, more careful, and more 
skiKul for recompense of gain." Increased attention was paid to 
manuring. In Cornwall, farmers rode many miles for sand and 
brought it home on horseback ; sea-weed was extensively used in 
South Wales ; in Sussex, hme was fetched from a distance at heavy 
expense ; in Hertfordshire, the sweepings of the streets were bought 
up for use on the land. The yield of corn per acre was rising. On 
the well-tilled and dressed acre, we are told that wheat now averaged 

1 Camden Society (1840), p. 7. 
G 



98 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

twenty bushels, and that barley sometimes rose to thirty-two 
bushels, and oats and beans to forty bushels. The improvement of 
pastures is shown in the increased size and weight of live-stock. 
The average dead weight of sheep and cattle in 1500 probably did 
not exceed 28 lbs. and 320 lbs. respectively. At the beginning of 
the seventeenth century the dead weight of the oxen and sheep 
supplied to the Prince of Wales's household was no doubt excep- 
tional ; but the difference is considerable. " An ox should weigh 
600 lbs. the four quarters ... a mutton should weigh 46 lbs. or 44 
lbs." A new incentive to improvement in arable farming and stock- 
rearing was suppHed by the lower price of wool, consequent partly 
on over-production, partly on deterioration in quality. This 
deterioration was in some cases the result of enclosures. The wool 
was sacrificed to the mutton, and the demand for butcher's meat 
was not yet sufficient to make the sacrifice profitable. When 
EngHsh wool first came into the Flemish market, it was distinguished 
for its fineness, and sold at a higher rate than its Spanish rival. It 
was indispensable for the foreign weaver. The best fieeces were 
those of the Ryeland or Herefordshire sheep, for which Leominster 
was the principal market. In the days of Skelton, Elynour Rum- 
mynge, ale-wife of Leatherhead, had no enviable reputation ; but 
when her customers made a pajment in kind, she was a shrewd 
judge of its value : 

" Some fill their pot full 
Of good Lemster wool." 

Drayton's Dowsabel had a " skin as soft as Lemster wool." Rabe- 
lais makes Panurge cheapen the flock of Ding-dong ; and when the 
latter descants upon the fineness of their wool, the Enghsh translator 
(Motteux, 1717) compares them to the quahty of " Lemynster 
wool." From the preamble to a statute of the reign of James I. 
(4 Jac. I. c. 2.) it would seem that Ryeland flocks were cotted all 
the year. The second price was fetched by Cotswold wool. The 
sheep that are kept on downs, heaths and commons produce the 
finest, though not the heaviest, fieeces. It was the experience of 
Virgil : 

" Si tibi lanicium curae, . . . fuge pabula laeta." 

In the same sense wrote Dyer : 

" On spacious airy downs, and gentle hills. 
With grass and thyme o'erspread, and clover wild. 
The fairest flocks rejoice ! " 



BARNABY GOOGE 99 

As the commons and wastes of England began to be extensively- 
enclosed, the quaUty of the fleece deteriorated. Heavier animals — 
better suited to fat enclosed pastures, and producing coarser wool — 
were introduced. EngHsh wool lost its pre-eminence abroad ; and, 
though still commanding high prices, was no longer indispensable for 
foreign weavers. The loss was to a great extent counterbalanced 
by increased consumption at home. But, at the time, the decrease 
in value was at least as influential in\ checking the conversion of 
arable land to pasture as were Acts of Parliament. 

Open-field farms were not as yet such obstacles to agricultural 
progress as they became after the discovery of new resources and 
new rotations of crops which could only be utiHsed to full advantage 
on enclosed lands. But already these new sources of wealth were 
in sight. The great difficulties in the way of mediaeval and Tudor 
farmers were want of winter keep and lack of means to maintain or 
restore the fertility of exhausted soils. In the agricultural Hterature 
of Elizabeth the remedy for both is dimly suggested. 

In 1577 appeared Foure Bookes of Husbandry,^ to which Barnaby 
Googe, a better poet than Tusser, gave his name. The work was a 
translation of Heresbach, with 16 additional pages by the translator. 
Googe mentions Fitzherbert or Tusser as writers worthy to be 
ranked with " Varro, Columella, and PaUadius of Rome " ; advises 
agriculturists to read " Maister Reynolde Scot's booke of Hoppe 
Gardens " ; and quotes an imposing Hst of " Aucthors and Hus- 
bandes whose aucthorities and observations are used in this book." 
By this reference he does not necessarily mean that all the men 
whose names he mentions had written books on farming, but rather 
that he had consulted those who were reputed to be most skilful in 
its practice. In other words, there were already agriculturists, 
Hke " Capt. Byngham," " John Somer," " Richard Deeryng," 
" Henry Denys," or " Wilham Pratte," whose methods were an 
object lesson to their less advanced neighbours. Googe's book has 
been despised because it was " made in Germany." But in this 
fact Hes its chief value. The farming of the Low Countries was 
better than the farming of England, and Googe gives EngHsh agri- 
culturists the benefit of foreign experience. He is the first writer 
to mention a reaping machine — " a lowe kinde of carre with a 
couple of wheeles and the frunt armed with sharpe syckles, whiche, 

^ Foure Bookes of Husbandry, collected by M. Conradus Heresbacluus . . . 
Newely Englished and increased by Bamabe Googe Esquire, London, 1577. 



100 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

forced by the beaste through the corne, did cut down al before it." 
He insists on the extreme importance of manure, and the value of 
marl, chalk, and ashes. But he does not consider that farmers 
can thrive by manure alone. On the contrary, he thinks that " the 
best doung for ground is the Maister's foot, and the best provender 
for the house the Maister's eye." He also gives a caution against 
the persistent use of chalk, because, in the end, it " brings the grounde 
to be Starke nought, whereby the common people have a speache, 
that grounde enriched with chalke makes a riche father and a 
beggerly sonne." He mentions the use of rape in the Principality 
of Cleves, a valuable suggestion whether for green-manuring, for 
the oil in its seeds, or for use as fodder for sheep. He commends 
" Trefoil or Burgundian grass," which he beheves to be of Moorish 
origin and Spanish introduction, for " there can be no better fodder 
devised for cat tell." He says that turnips have been found in the 
Low Countries to be good for live-stock, and that, if sown at Mid- 
summer, they will be ready for winter food. In English gardens 
turnips were already known. They appear under the name of 
" tumepez " among " Rotys for a gardyn " in a fifteenth century 
book of cookery recipes ; Andrew Borde ^ (1542) recommends them 
" boyled and eaten with flesshe " ; William Turner, the herbaUst, 
mentions that " the great round rape called a turnepe groweth in 
very great plenty in all Germany and more about London then 
in any other place of England " : Tusser classes them among " roots 
to boil and to butter " ; but Googe, though only as a translator, 
was the first writer to suggest that field cultivation of turnips 
which revolutionised English farming. 

Another Elizabethan writer makes the first attempt to combine 
science with practice. Sir Hugh Plat was an ingenious inventor, 
and, as Sir Richard Weston calls him, " the most curious man of 
his time." He devotes the second part of his Jewell House of Art 
and Nature (1594) to the scientific manuring of arable and pasture 
land. Manure presents itself to his poetic mind as a Goddess with 
a Cornucopia in her hand. If land, he says, is perpetually cropped, 
the earth is robbed of her vegetative salt, and ceases to bear. The 
object, therefore, of the wise husbandman must be to restore this 
essential element of fertihty. His fist of manurial substances is 
long. He recommends not only farm-yard dung, but marl, lime, 
street refuse, the subsoil of ponds and " watrie bottomes," salt, 

' Dyetary, ch. xix. 



SIR HUGH PLAT 101 

ashes from the burning of stubble, weeds, and bracken ; the hair 
of beasts, malt dust, soap-ashes, putrified pilchards, garbage of 
fish, blood offal and the entrails of animals. He warns farmers 
of the difficulty in discovering the right proportion of marl to lay 
on different sorts of soil. He condemns the waste of the richest 
properties of farm-yard manure, and recommends the use of covers 
to all pits used for its accumulation. He himself used a barn roof 
at his farm at St. Albans, which moved up and down on upright 
supports, so that the muck-heap could be raised, yet always remain 
under cover. In his Arte of setting of Come (1600) he advocates 
dibbing as superior to broadcast sowing. He traces the origin 
of the practice to the accident of a silly wench, who deposited 
some seeds of wheat in holes intended for carrots. He goes so 
far as to say that, by dibbing, the average yield of wheat per 
acre would be raised from 4 quarters to 15 quarters ! 

The growth of an agricultural literature, as well as Googe's list 
of notable authorities, suggest that landowners were begmning to 
interest themselves in corn and cattle. Probably their taste for 
farming was encouraged by the fashionable love for horticulture. 
In the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries both had dechned : in the 
Tudor age both revived. The garden was the precursor of the 
home-farm. In the reign of Ehzabeth, gardening became one of 
the pursuits and pleasures of English country life. The art was 
loved by Bacon ; it was patronised by Burghley and Walsingham ; 
it gathered round it a rich literature ; it claimed the services of 
explorers and builders of Emj)ire hke Sir Walter Raleigh. Tudor 
architects used pleasure gardens to carry on and support the lines 
of their main buildings, and even repeated the patterns of their 
mural decorations in the geometrical " Knots " of their flower 
borders ; but they banished kitchen gardens out of sight. The 
cultivation of vegetables made less progress than that of flowers 
and fruits. This useful side of horticulture, Uke farming, was as 
yet comparatively neglected by the Tudor gentry. But an advance 
was made. The first step was to recover lost ground. In order 
to flatter Elizabeth, Harrison probably exaggerated the disuse of 
vegetables before the accession of her father. He over-states his 
case when he says that garden -produce, which before was treated 
as fit for hogs and savage beasts, now suppHed not only food for 
the " poore commons " but " daintie dishes at the tables of delicate 
merchants, gentlemen, and the nobilitie." It was doubtless true 



102 THE REIGN OF ELIZABETH 

that the art of gardening, Hke that of farming, had declined during 
the period which preceded Tudor times. Yet in the decadent 
fifteenth centurj^, rape, carrots, parsnips, turnips, cabbages, leeks, 
onions, garhc, as well as numerous " Herbes for Potage," and 
" Herbes for a salade " appeared in a book on gardens,^ or in the 
recipes of cookery books. On the other hand, it is said that, in 
the reign of Henry VIII., Queen Catherine was provided with salads 
from Flanders, because none could be furnished at home, and that 
onions and cabbages, kno^Ti in the reign of Henry III. and praised 
by Piers PloAvman, were in the first part of the fifteenth century 
imported from the Low Countries. Now, however, in the reign of 
Henry VIII. and onwards, gardening, as Fuller says, began to creep 
out of Holland into England. In Shakespeare's day, it may be 
remembered that potatoes ^ as yet only " rained from the sky " and 
that Anne Page would rather 

" be set quick i' the earth, 
And bowled to death with turnips," 

than marry the wrong man. Sandwich became famous for its 
carrots, and in the neighbourhood of Fulham, and along the Suffolk 
coast, gardens were laid out in which vegetables were extensively 
cultivated. In rich men's gardens potatoes found a place after 
1585, though for some years to come, they were regarded, and sold, 
as luxuries. Here then were accumulating new sources of future 
advance in farming. Yet progress must have been slow. Robert 
ChUd, "v^Titing anonymously on the " Deficiencies " of agriculture 
in 1651,^ says : " Some old men in Surrey, where it (the Art of 
Gardening) flourisheth very much at present, report. That they 
knew the first Gardiners that came into those parts, to plant Cab- 
ages, Colleflowers, and to sowe Turners, Carrels, and Parsnips, and 
to sowe Raiili [early] Pease, all of which at that time were great 
rarities, we having few, or none in England, but what came from 
Holland and Flaunders." He goes on to say that he could name 
" places, both in the North and West of England, where the name 
of Gardening and Howing is scarcely knowne, in which places a few 
Gardiners might have saved the fives of many poor people, who 
have starved these dear years." 

1 The Feate of Gardeninge, by Mayster Ion Gardener, printed in Archaeologia, 
vol. liv., with a glossary by JVIrs. EveljTi Cecil. 

^ Merry Wives of Windsor, Act. v. So. 5 and Act iii. Sc. 4. 
^Harthb's Legacie (1651), pp. 11-12. 



PROMISE OF PROGRESS 103 



CHAPTER y. 
FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION (1603-1660). 

FARMING UNDER THE FIRST STEWARTS AND THE 
COMMONWEALTH. 

Promise of agricultiiral progress checked by the Civil War : agricultural 
writers and their suggestions : Sir Richard Weston on tirmips and clover : 
conservatism of English farmers ; their dislike to book-farming not un 
reasonable : unexhausted improvements discussed ; Walter Blith on 
drainage : attempts to drain the fens in the eastern counties ; the resist- 
ance of the fenmen : new views on commons : Winstanley's claims ; 
enclosvu-es advocated as a step towards agricultural improvement. 

The beginning of the seventeenth century promised to usher in 
a new era of agricultural prosperity. During the first four decades 
of the period prospects steadily brightened. No general improve- 
ment in farming practices had been possible until a considerable area 
of land had been enclosed in one or other of the various forms which 
enclosures might assume. Under the Tudor sovereigns — in the 
midst of much agrarian suffering and discontent — this indispensable 
work had been begun, and it continued throughout the seventeenth 
century. Estates were consohdated ; small farms were thrown 
together ; open village farms in considerable numbers gave place 
to compact and separate freeholds or tenancies ; agrarian partner- 
ships, in which it was no man's interest to be energetic, made way, 
here and there, for that individual occupation which offered the 
strongest incentive to enterprise. Thus opportunities were afforded 
for the introduction of new crops, the appHcation of land to its best 
use, and the adoption of improved methods. Dairying was extended 
in the vales of the West and South West ; corn and meat found 
better and dearer markets ; under the spur of increased profits 
arable farming again prospered, and the conversion of tillage to 
pasture was arrested. New materials for agricultural wealth were 
accumulating ; turnips, already grown in Enghsh gardens, were 



104 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

recommended for field cultivation ; twenty years later, potatoes 
were suggested as a farming crop ; the value of clover and other 
artificial grasses had been recognised, and urged upon English 
farmers. Methods became less barbarous. An Act of Parhament 
was passed " agaynst plowj^nge by the taile," and the custom of 
" pulling off the wool yearly from Hving sheep " was declared illegal. 
Drainage "^as discussed with a sense and sagacity which were not 
rivalled till the nineteenth century. Increased care was given to 
manuring ; new fertihsmg agencies were suggested ; the merits of 
Peruvian guano were explained by G. de la Vega at Lisbon in 1602 ; 
the use of valuable substances, knowTi to our ancestors but discon- 
tinued, was revived. Attention was paid to the improvement of 
agricultural implements. Patents were taken out for draining 
machmes (Burrell, 1628) ; for new manures (1636) ; for improved 
courses of husbandry (Chiver, 1637 and 1640) ; for ploughs (Hamil- 
ton, 1623 ; Brouncker, 1627 ; Parham, 1634) ; for instruments for 
mechanical sowing (Ramsey, 1634, and Plattes, 1639). On all sides 
new energies seemed to be aroused. 

Much of the land had changed hands during the preceding cen- 
tury, and the infusion of new blood into the ownership of the soil 
introduced a more enterprising and business-Hke spirit into farming. 
The increased wealth of landowners showed itself in the erection of 
Jacobean mansions ; farmer o^vners, tenant-farmers for lives or 
long terms of years, copyholders at fixed quit-rents, made money. 
Only the agricultural labourer still suffered. His wages rose more 
slowly than the prices of the necessaries of fife ; his hold on the 
land was relaxing ; his dependence upon his labour-power became 
more complete. He was more secure of employment ; but in this 
respect alone was his lot altered for the better. 

The promise of improvement was checked by the outbreak of 
the Civil War. Excepting those who were directly engaged in the 
struggle, men seemed to follow their ordinary business and their 
accustomed pursuits. The story that a crowd of country gentle- 
men followed the hounds across Marston Moor between the two 
armies drawn up in hostile array, may not be true ; but it illustrates 
the temper of a large proportion of the inhabitants. It was the 
prevailing sense of insecurity, rather than the actual absorption of 
the whole population in the war, that caused the promise of agri- 
cultural progress to perish in the bud. In more settled times under 
the Commonwealth, farming prospects again brightened. But 



POLITICS SUSPEND PROGRESS 105 

practical progress was once more suspended by the social changes 
and political uncertainties of the last half of the seventeenth century. 
Agriculture languished, if it did not actually decline. It is a 
significant fact that between 1640 and 1670 not more than six 
patents were taken out for agricultural improvements. Country 
gentlemen ceased to interest themselves in farming pursuits. " Our 
gentry," notes Pepys, " are grown ignorant in everything of good 
husbandry." Without their initiative progress was almost im- 
possible. Open-field farmers could not change their field-customs 
without the consent of the whole body of partners. Farmers in 
individual occupation of their holdings had not, as a general rule, 
the enterprise, the education, the capital, or the security of tenure, 
to conduct experiments or adopt improvements. 

But the period was one of active preparation. A crowd of 
agricultural writers followed in the train of Fitzherbert, Tusser, 
and Googe. Leonard Mascall in his Booke of Cattell (1591) had 
instructed husbandmen in the more skilful " government " of 
horses, oxen, cattle, and sheep. Gervase Markham wrote on every 
variety of agricultural subjects, multiplying his treatises under 
different titles with a rapidity which gained for him the distinction 
of being the " first English hackwriter," and proved that books on 
farming found a sale.^ Horses were made the subject of sjiecial 
treatment. Blundeville's Fower chiefyst offices belonging to Horse- 
manshippe (1565-6) was followed by such books as Markham's 
Discourse on Horsemanshippe (1593) and How to Chuse, Ride, Trayne, 

^ As an agricultural writer, Markham's reputation was doubtful, in spite 
of the many editions which were published of his works. In Hartlib's Legacie 
(1651) R. Child in his " Large Letter " had spoken of the want of a complete 
book on English husbandry. On this a critic had remarked " England hath a 
perfect systeme of Husbandry, viz. Markham." The author replies (Legacie, 
3rd edition, 1655) : " He speaketh more of Markham than ever I heard 
before, or as yet have seen. In general he is accounted little more than a 
Translator, unless about Cattle, and yet I cannot but in that question his 
skill. . . . The works which I have seen of his are, first, the great book 
translated out of French " (The Country Farm, 1616, a revision of Surfiet's 
translation of the Maison Rustique, with additions from foreign writers), 
" which whether well or ill done, I will not declare ; but I am sure our Hus- 
bandmen in England profit little by it. Secondly I have seen five several 
bookes bound up together, two or three of which he acknowledgeth to be 
anothers, as The Improvement of the Wild of Kent, also his Houswifery he 
aclinowledgeth to have had from a Coujitess, also part of his Fareivell is 
borrowed, and what he owneth, if I have seen all, are very short in many 
particulars. . . . Yea, if I understand any thing, he setteth down many 
gross untruths, which every Countryman will contradict." He quotes 
instances, and concludes " he hath done well in divers things, and is to be 
commended for his industry." 



106 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

and Dyet both Hunting and Running Horses (1599), by Grymes's 
Honest and Plaine Dealing Farrier (1636), and by John Crawshey's 
Countryman's Instructor (1636). Then, as now, horsedeaHng was a 
trial of the sharpest wits, blunted by the fewest scruples. Crawshey, 
who describes himself as a " plaine Yorkshire man," warns his 
readers against being deceived when buying horses in the market, 
" for many men will protest and sweare that they are sound when 
they know the contrary, onely for their private gaine." Where so 
much is strange in farming matters, it is refreshing to find famihar 
features. The proper treatment of woodlands was discussed by 
Standish (1611). Rowland Vaughan (1610), struck by the sight of 
a streamlet issuing from a mole-heap in a bank, discussed new 
methods of irrigation, or " the summer and winter dro^^Tiing " of 
meadows and pasture. Even the smaller profits of farming received 
attention. Numerous books were published on orchards, and on 
gardens, in which were now accumulating such future stores of 
agricultural riches as turnips, carrots, and potatoes. Mascall in 
1581 had ^\Titten on the " husbandlye Ordring of Poultry " ; Sir 
Hugh Plat had instructed housewives in the art of fattening fowls 
for the table ; and John Partridge joublished a treatise on the same 
subjects, in which he gives recipes for keeping their natural foes at 
bay. The following may be recommended to Hunt Secretaries, who 
are impoverished by demands on their poultry funds. " Rub your 
poultry," says Partridge, " with the juice of Rue or Herbe grasse 
and the wesels shall do them no hurt ; if they eate the lungs or 
hghts of a Foxe, the Foxes shall not eate them." Nor were bees 
neglected. Thomas Hill (1568), and Edmund Southeme (1593) had 
"svritten on the " right ordering " of bees. But Charles Butler's 
Feminine Monarchie (1609), and John Levett's Orderinge of Bees 
(1634) became the standard authorities on the subject. Both books 
were known to Robert Child, author of the Large Letter on the 
deficiencies of Enghsh husbandry, pubhshed by Harthb in 1651.^ 
He says that Butler " hath written so exactly, and upon his owne 
experience " that Httle remained to be added. Henry Best (1641 ),2 
however, preferred Levett to anj?^ other -oTiter on bee-keeping. 
" Hee is the best," he thinks, " that ever writte of this subjeckt." 
During the same period men like Gabriel Plattes or Sir Richard 

^ Hartlib's Legacie, p. 64. Robert Child in the 1651 edition speaks of Levett 
as " Leveret." 

2 Farming Book, p. 68. 



SIR RICHARD WESTON 107 

Weston were suggesting new agricultural methods, or introducing 
new crops which were destined to change the face of Enghsh farm- 
ing. Plattes (1638), who seems to have been of Flemish origin, 
urged that corn should be steeped before sowing, and not so^vn 
broadcast but set in regular rows. To those who adopted the sug- 
gestion of the " corn setter," he promised a yield of a hundred-fold, 
and he invented a drill to facilitate and cheapen the process. Plattes 
was on the verge of a great improvement. But men who looked 
for no larger return than six-fold or eight-fold on the grain sown, 
regarded his promise as the dream of a visionary who had not 
travelled beyond the sound of Bow Bells. Unfortunately, the 
career of Plattes confirmed the contempt with which practical 
farmers were ready to regard the theories of agricultural writers. 
Like Tusser, he failed in farming. As Tusser died (1580) in the 
debtor's prison of the Poultry Compter, so Plattes is said to have 
died starving and shirtless in the streets of London.^ 

Sir Richard Weston could at least lay claim to thirty years 
experience in the successful improvement of his estates at Sutton 
in Surrey " by Fire and Water." He had em-iched his heathy land 
by the process of paring and burning, " which wee call Devon- 
shiring " ; he had also adopted Vaughan's suggestion of irrigation, 
and proved its value on his own meadows. But the important 
change with which Weston's name will always be associated is the 
introduction of a new rotation of crops, founded on the field cultiva- 
tion of roots and clover. As Brillat-Savarin valued a new dish 
above a new star, so Arthur Young regards Weston as " a greater 
benefactor than Newton." He did indeed offer bread and meat 
to millions. Whether Weston had visited Flanders before 1644 is 
uncertain. His attempt to make the Wey navigable by means of 
locks suggests that he was acquainted with the foreign system of 
canals. On the other hand, his treatise on agriculture imphes that 
he paid his first visit to the country in that year as a refugee. A 
RoyaHst and a Cathohc, Weston, at the outbreak of the Civil War, 
was driven into exile, and his estates were sequestrated. He took 
refuge m Flanders. There he studied the Flemish methods of 
agriculture, especially their use of flax, clover, and turnips. For 
the field cultivation of clover he advises that heathy ground should 
be pared, burned, limed, and well ploughed and harrowed ; that 
the seed should be sown in April, or the end of March, at the rate 
1 Hartlib's Legacie (3rd edition, 1655), p. 183. 



108 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

of ten pounds of seed to the acre ; that, once so^v^l, the crop should 
be left for five years. The results of his observations, embodied in 
his Discours of the Husbandrie used in Brabant and Flanders, were 
WTitten in 1645 and left to his sons as a " Legacie." The subse- 
quent history of the " Legacie " is curious. Circulated in manu- 
script, an imperfect copy fell into the hands of Samuel Hartlib, 
who piratically published it in 1650, with an unctuous dedication 
" to the Right Honorable the Council of State." In the following 
year Hartlib seems to have learned the name of the author and to 
have obtained possession of a more perfect copy. He therefore 
wrote two letters to Weston, asking him to correct and enlarge his 
" Discourse." Receiving no answer, he republished the treatise in 
1651. Eighteen years later, the Discours was again appropriated — 
this time by Gabriel Reeve, who, in 1670, reprinted it under the 
title of Directions left by a Gentleman to his Sons for the Improve- 
ment of Barren and Heathy Land in England and Wales. 

Roots, clover, and artificial grasses subsequently revolutionised 
EngHsh farming ; but it was more than a century before their use 
became at all general. Other crops were pressed by agricultural 
WTiters upon the attention of farmers — such as flax, hemp, hops, 
woad and madder for dyes, saffron, Hquorice, raj)e, and coleseed. 
A more important suggestion was the field cultivation of potatoes, 
which hitherto had been treated as exotics, rarely found except in 
the gardens of the rich. In 1664 John Forster ^ urged farmers to 
grow them in their fields. He distinguishes " Irish Potatoes " from 
Spanish, Canadian, or Virginian varieties, points to their success in 
Ireland, notices their introduction into Wales and the North of 
England, and recommends their trial in other parts of the country. 
It was not till the Napoleonic wars that the advice was taken to 
any general extent. None of these crops, it may be observed, 
could be introduced on an open-field farm, unless the whole body 
of agrarian partners agreed to alter their field customs. 

Another noteworthy book is the Legacie (1651), which passes 
under the name of Samuel Hartlib, who has gained undeserved credit 
by his piracy of Weston's work. By birth a Pole, Harthb had come 
to England in 1628. By his Reformation of Schooles (1642), trans- 
lated from Comenius, he forced himself on the notice of Milton, who 
in 1644 curtly addressed to him his Tract Of Education. From 
Weston's Discours, HartHb stole the title of the Legacie (1651), com- 
^ England's Happiness Increased, etc., by John Forster Oent. 1664. 



FARMING DEFICIENCIES 109 

posed of letters from various writers on the defects of English 
agriculture, and their remedies. Five-sixths of the Legacie are taken 
up with " A Large Letter . . . written to M. Samuel Harthb," 
signed (1655), by R. Child. It throws a clear hght on some of the 
conditions of EngHsh farming in the middle of the seventeenth 
century. 

In the " Large Letter " the cumbrousness of the Enghsh ploughs, 
carts, and waggons is noticed. Clumsy linplements and bad prac- 
tices were said to exist side by side ^\ith obvious improvements, 
which yet found no imitators. Some Kentish farmers used " 4, 6, 
yea 12 horses and oxen " in their ploughs, and in Ireland farmers 
fastened their horses by the tails. Yet in Norfolk the practice was 
to plough with two horses only, while in Kent itself, a certain 
Colonel Blunt of Gravesend ploughed with one horse, and an ingeni- 
ous yeoman had invented a double-furrow plough. Men who 
perplexed their brains about perpetual motion would, says the 
Avriter, have used their ingenuity to more effect if they had tried 
to improve the implements of agriculture. Cattle-breeding, except 
" in Lancashire and some few Northern Counties " was not studi3d ; 
no attempt was made to improve the best breeds for milking or 
for fattening. Dairying needed attention ; butter might be " better 
sented and tasted " ; our cheeses were inferior to those of Italy, 
France, or Holland. ^ Various remedies against the prevalence of 
smut and mildew in wheat are suggested, including Mme, change of 
seed, early so^ving, and the use of bearded wheat. Flax and hemp 
were unduly neglected, though both might be grown, it is sug- 
gested, with profit to agriculturists, and to the great increase of 
employment ; as a remedy against this persistent neglect, the 
author advocates compulsory legislation, to force farmers, " even 
like brutes, to understand their own good." Twenty-one natural 
substances are recommended as manures, the value of which had 
been proved by experience. Among them are chalk, marl, Hme, 
farm-yard dung, if it is not too much exposed to the sun and rain ; 
" snaggreet," or soil fuU of small shells taken out of rivers, and 
much used in Surrey ; owse, from marshy ditches or foreshores ; 
seaweed ; sea-sand, as used in Cornwall ; " folding of sheejDe after 

^ This also had been the opinion of Googe, who places the Parmesan cheese 
of Italy first. Then follow, in order of merit, the cheeses of Holland, Nor- 
mandy, and lastly, of England. Among Enghsh cheeses the best came from 
Cheshire, Shropshire, Banbiirj^, Sufiolk, and Essex. " The very worste " is 
" the Kentish cheese." 



110 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

the Flaunders manner, (viz.) under a covert, in which earth is 
strawed about 6 inches thick " ; ashes, soot, pigeons' dung, 
malt-dust, blood, shavings of horn, woollen rags as used in 
Hertfordshire, Oxfordshire, and Kent. It need scarcely be pointed 
out that for none of these fertihsers was the agriculturist indebted 
to chemistry, and that no attempt was as yet made to restore to 
the soil the special properties of which it is impoverished by par- 
ticular crops. To meadows and pasture no attention was paid ; 
mole-heaps and ant-hills were not spread and levelled ; in laying 
down land to graze, Kttle care was taken to sow the best and sweetest 
grasses. Clover, sainfoin, and lucerne were generally ignored. 
The practice of " soiling," that is, of cutting clover green as fodder 
for cattle, is, however, commended. Large tracts of land were 
allowed to he waste, so " that there are more waste lands in England 
than in all Europe besides, considering the quantity of land." 
Among the waste lands he includes " dry heathy commons." " I 
know," he adds, " that poore people will cry out against me because 
I caU these waste lands : but it's no matter." 

The destruction of woods for fuel is condemned. For this con- 
sumption the glass furnaces of the South, the salt " wiches " of 
Cheshire, and, above all, the iron-works of Surrey, Sussex, and 
other counties, were responsible. The writer probably alludes to 
" Dud " Dudley's experiments, when he expresses the hope that 
the difficulties of using " sea-coal " for the smelting of iron might 
be overcome so as to save our timber. Experiments were not 
sufficiently tried, and a " Colledge of Experiments," already recom- 
mended by Gabriel Plattes, is once more suggested. Men do not 
know where to go if they want advice, or to obtain rehable seeds 
and plants. Some means was needed of bringing home to other 
husbandmen a knowledge of the improvements made by their more 
skilful brethren. Another deficiency in Enghsh husbandrj^ was its 
insular repugnance to foreign methods and new-fangled crops. 
Men objected that the new seeds " will not grovr here with us, for 
our forefathers never used them. To these I reply and ask them, 
how they know ? have they tryed ? Idlenesse never wants an 
excuse ; and why might not our forefathers upon the same ground 
have held their hands in their pockets, and have said, that Wheat, 
and Barley, would not have grown amongst us ? " The same com- 
plaint, it may be added, is made by Walter Bhth in The English 
Improver Improved : " The fourth and last abuse is a calumniating 



EXAGGERATED PROMISES OF " RUSTICK AUTHORS " 111 

and depraving every new Invention ; of this most culpable are your 
mouldy old leavened husbandmen, who themselves and their fore- 
fathers have been accustomed to such a course of husbandry as 
they will practise, and no other ; their resolution is so fixed, no 
issues or events whatsoever shall change them. If their neighbour 
hath as much corn of one Acre as they of two upon the same land, or 
if another plow the same land for strength and nature with two 
horses and one man as well as he, and have as good corn, as he hath 
been used with four horses and two men yet so he will continue. Or 
if an Improvement be discovered to him and all his neighbours, hee'l 
oppose it and degrade it. What forsooth saith he, who taught you 
more wdt than your forefathers ? " Seventeenth century farmers 
did not lack descendants m later generations. It took a heavy 
hammer and many blows to drive a nail through heart of oak. 

It would be unjust to lay on agriculturists the whole blame for 
neglect of improvements. Much deserves to rest on the agri- 
cultural writers themselves. Their promises were often exaggerated 
beyond the bounds of behef ; mixed with' some useful suggestions 
were others which were either ridiculous or of doubtful value. Men 
actually and practically engaged in cultivating the soil were, there- 
fore, justified in some distrust of book-farmers. Turnips were 
undoubtedly an invaluable addition to agricultural resources. But 
it was an exaggeration to say with Adolphus Speed ^ that they were 
the only food for cattle, swine, and poultry, sovereign for con- 
ditioning " Huntmg dogs," an admirable ingredient for bread, 
affording " two very good crops " each year, supplying " very good 
Syder " and " exceeding good Oyl." Nor was confidence in Speed's 
advice on other topics likely to be inspired by his promise that land, 
rented at £200 a year, might be made to reahse a net amiual profit 
of £2000 by keeping rabbits. Similarly the remedy which is sug- 
gested in HartHb's Legacie (3rd edition, 1655) " against the Rot, 
and other diseases in Sheep and Horses " is enough to cast susj)icion 
on the whole book : " Take Serpents or (which is better) Vipers," 
advises the writer, " cut their heads and tayls off and dry the rest 
to powder. Mingle this powder with salt, and give a few grains 
of it so mingled now and then to your Horses and Sheep." Other 
suggested remedies are, at least, more easy of appHcation. " The 
colicke or pain in the belly (in oxen) is put away in the beholding 
of geese in the water, specially duckes." If a horse sickens from 
^ Adam out of Eden (1659). 



112 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

some mysterious ailment, " a piece of fern-root placed under his 
tongue will make him immediately voyde, upward and do^viiward, 
whatsoever is in his body, and presently amende." Again, 
neither silkworms nor vineyards, though both are favourites with 
the Stewart theorists, commend themselves strongly as a safe 
hvelihood to practical men who farmed under an English climate. 
Nor was it possible to take seriousty the proposed introduction of 
" Black Foxes, Muske-cats, Sables, Marlines,'' etc., suggested by 
Robert Child, the author of the principal tract in the Legacie, as an 
addition to the agricultural wealth of the coimtry. He adds to his 
hst " the Elephant, the greatest, wisest, and longest-hved of all 
beasts . . . very serviceable for carriage (15 men usually riding on 
his backe together)." It would have added variety to Enghsh rural 
life to see the partners in a village farm conveyed to their holdings 
on the back of a co-operative elephant, and dropping off as they 
arrived at their respective strips. But it is doubtful whether they 
would have found their four-footed omnibus " not chargeable to 
keepe." Literary and experimental agriculturists naturally gained 
a reputation similar to that of quack medicine vendors. In practice 
they often failed. Like ancient alchemists, they starved in the 
midst of their golden dreams. Tusser, teaching thrift, never throve. 
Gabriel Plattes, the corn setter, died for want of bread. Donald- 
son, the author of the first Scottish agricultural treatise, admits 
that he took to ^vriting books because he could not succeed on the 
land. Even Arthur Young failed twice in farm management before 
he began his invaluable tours. 

In the " Large Letter " on the defects of English farming, and 
their remedies, from which quotations have been akeady made, 
Child also notices the amount of land that lay waste from want 
of drainage. This was one of the crying needs of agriculture. 
Without extensive drainage, the introduction of new crops and 
improved practices was impossible. With the hour comes the man. 
The necessity and methods of drainage were ably discussed by 
Walter BHth. Writing as " a lover of Ingenuity," he pubhshed his 
English Improver in 1649. His treatise, interlarded with biblical 
quotations, was the first which dealt with draining. As the Puritans 
of the day sought Scriptural authority for their political constitu- 
tion, so the Puritan farmer justifies his advocacy of drainage by 
references to the Bible. " Can the rush," he asks with Bildad, 
" grow without mire or the flagg without water ? " In other ways 



WALTER BLITH 113 

also Blith's work is significant of the era of the Civil War. He 
himself beat his ploughshare mto a sword, became a captain in the 
Roundhead army, dedicated his second edition under the title of 
The English Improver Improved (1652) " to the Right Honourable 
the Lord Generall Cromwell," adorns it witE^a portrait of himself 
arrayed in full military costume, and adds the legend ' Vive La Re 
Puhlick.' 

Among the remedies which Blith suggests for the defects of 
Enghsh farming, he urges the employment of more capital ; 
enclosures, with due regard to cottiers and labourers ; the abohtion 
of " slavish customs " ; the removal of water-mills ; the extinction 
of " vermine " ; the recognition of tenant-right. It is an indica- 
tion of agricultural progress that the question of tenants' improve- 
ments should be thus forcing itseK to the front. Sir Richard 
Weston in his Discours called attention to the Flemish custom, 
unknown to him in England, of " taking a Farm upon Improvement.'' 
In Flanders leases for twenty-one years were taken on condition 
that " whatsoever four indifferent persons (whereof two to bee 
chosen by the one, and two by the other) should judg the Farm to 
bee improved at the end of his Leas, the Owner was to paie so much 
in value to the Tenant for his improving it." In the Preface to his 
Legacie, HartHb had imitated Weston in urging the adoption of 
this custom in England. Bhth, who also quotes the Flemish lease 
with approval, points out the injustice of the English law and the 
hindrance to aU improvements which it created. " If," he says, 
" a Tenant be at never so great paines or cost for the improvement 
of his Land, he doth thereby but occasion a greater Rack upon him- 
seK, or else invests his Land-Lord into his cost and labour gratis, 
or at best hes at his Land-Lord's mercy for requitall ; which 
occasions a neglect of all good Husbandry. . . . Now this I 
humble conceive may be removed, if there were a Law Inacted, by 
which every Land-Lord should be obHged, either to give him 
reasonable allowance for his clear Improvement, or else suffer him 
or his to enjoy it so much longer as tiU he hath had a proportionable 
requitall." The question had not yet become acute ; but, with 
the insecurity of tenure which then prevailed, it was not surprising 
that tenant-farmers were averse to improvements. Their experi- 
ence was embodied in the proverbial saying current in Berkshire : 

" He that havocs may sit 
He that improves must flit." 
H 



114 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

The same experience inspired the popular sa5ring prevalent in the 
Lowlands of Scotland. Donaldson, in his Husbandry Anatomised 
(1697) says that, when a tenant improves his land, " the Land- 
lord obHgeth him either to augment his Rent, or remove, msomuch 
that it's become a Proverb (and I think none more true), Bouch 
and Sit, Improve and Flit.'' 

In treating of drainage, BUth deals not only with surface water 
but the constant action of springs and stagnant bottom water. He 
urges that no man should attempt to lay out his drains by the eye 
alone, but by the aid of " a true exact Water Levell," an instrument 
which he carefully describes and depicts. No drain, he said, could 
touch the " cold spewing moyst water that feeds the flagg and 
rush," unless it was " a yard or four feet deep," provided with 
proper outfalls. The drains were to be filled with elder boughs or 
with stones, and turfed over. He insists that they should be cut 
straight, not, as open-field farmers were compelled to cut them — 
for want of space or from the opposition of their neighbours — with 
turns and angles. His views are sound and advanced on general 
schemes of drainage, which, for " the commonwealth's advantage " 
should, he suggests, be enforced by compulsory powers upon land- 
owTiers. 

When Bhth \\Tote, the condition of the fens had become a matter 
of national importance. It was now that the great Avork of draining 
and reclaiming the droAAiied district had been for the first time 
seriously undertaken on a scale commensurate with the magnitude 
of the task. It is singular that foreigners should have taught the 
EngHsh how to deal, not only with land, but with water. As 
farmers, the Low Countries were far in advance of England, and 
from them came the most valuable improvements in agricultural 
methods, as well as the most useful additions to agricultural 
resources. Dutchmen drained our fens ; irrigation, warping, canals 
were all foreign importations. The irrigation of meadows, which 
M. de Girardin described as a sound insurance against drought, is 
said to have been first practised in England in modern times by the 
notorious " Horatio Pallavazene," of Babraham ..." who robbed 
the Pope to lend the Queen." Warping was brought from Italy 
to the Isle of Axholme in the eighteenth century, and by its means 
the deposits at the estuary of the Humber were converted into 
" polders." The Dutch and Flemings had mastered the secret of 
locks and canals long before any attempt was made to render 



THE DRAINING OF THE FENS 115 

English rivers navigable, or available for water-carriage in inland 
districts. The great French " Canal du Midi " was completed in 
1681, nearly a century before the example was followed in England. 
In this connection it may be also noticed that-a colony of Walloon 
emigrants, settled at Thorney towards the middle of the seventeenth 
century, introduced into the district the practice of paring and 
burning the coarse tussocks of grass, and the paring plough was 
long known as the French plough. 

Robert Child in his " Large Letter " on the most notable 
deficiencies of English agriculture, printed in Harthb's Legacie{lQ5l), 
suggests that the drainage of marshes was not begun till the reign of 
Elizabeth. "In Qu. Ehzabeth's dayes," he wTites, " Ingenuities, 
Curiosities, and Good Husbandry began to take place, and then 
Salt Marshes began to be fenced from the Seas." In this he is 
mistaken. Some progress had been made at an earher date. A 
number of Acts were passed in the reign of Henry VIII. for the 
reclamation of marshes and fens by undertakers, who were usually 
rewarded with haK the reclaimed land. Thus Wapping Marsh was 
reclaimed by CorneHus Vanderdelf in 1544, and the embankment of 
Plumstead and Greenwich Marshes was begun in the same reign. 
Isolated marshes had been drained in the eastern counties durmg 
the reign of Elizabeth. Norden {Surveyor's Dialogue, 1607) says : 
■" much of the Fennes is made lately firme ground, by the skill of 
one Captame Lovell, and by M. WiUiam Englebert, an excellent 
Ingenor." But it was not till the reign of Charles I. that any 
serious attempt was made to deal \\'ith the Great Level of the Fens, 
which extended into the six counties of Cambridge, Lincoln, Hunting- 
don, Northampton, Suffolk, and Norfolk. 

Seventy miles in length, and varjdng in breadth from ten to 
thirty miles, the fens comprised an area of nearly 700,000 acres. 
Now a richly fertile, highly cultivated district, it was, in the seven- 
teenth century, a wilderness of bogs, pools, and reed-shoals — a 
vast morass, from which, here and there, emerged a few islands of 
sohd earth. Here dwelt an amphibious population, travelhng in 
punts, walking on stilts, and living mainly by fishing, cutting willows, 
keeping geese, and wild-fowUng. " H. C." who, in 1629, urged upon 
the Government the Drayning of Fennes, paints an unattractive 
picture of the country : " The Aer Nebulous, Grosse, and full of 
rotten Harres ; the Water putred and muddy, yea, full of loath- 
some Vermine ; the Earth spuing, unfast, and boggie ; the Fire 



116 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

noysome turfe and hassocks ; such are the inconveniences of the 
Drownings." Eight great principal rivers — the Great Ouse, the 
Cam, the Nene, the Welland, the Glen, the Milden-hall or Lark, the 
Brandon or Lesser Ouse, and the Stoke or Wissey ^ — carry the 
upland waters through this wide stretch of flat country towards the 
sea. Whenever the rains fell, the rivers rose above their banks, 
and, especially if the wind was blowing from the east or south, 
flooded the country for miles around. It was only in the map that 
they reached the ocean at all. Two causes principally contributed 
to make the country a brackish swamp. The outfaUs of the rivers 
had become silted up so that their mouths were choked by many 
feet of alluvial deposit. ^ Twdce every day the tides rushed up the 
chaimels for a considerable distance, forcing back the fresh water, 
and converting the whole country into one vast shallow bay. 
Efforts had been made by the Romans to reclaim these flat levels, 
and their " causey " is stiU in existence. In the palmy days of the 
great monasteries of Crowland, Thorney, Ely, and Ramsey, isolated 
districts were occupied, and highly cultivated. WiUiam of Malmes- 
bury, writing in the reign of Henry II. (1143), describes the district 
round Thorney as " a very Paradise in pleasure and dehght ; it 
resembles heaven itself — it abounds in lofty trees, neither is any 
waste place in it ; for in some parts there are apple trees, in other 
vines which either spread upon the ground or run along poles." 
Such a description apphes only to the islands on which the great 
monasteries were situated. The rest of the country had become, 
at some imknowTi period of history, an unproductive bog, affording 
little benefit to the realm other than fish and fowl, and "overmuch 
harbour to a rude and almost barbarous sort of lazy and beggarly 
people." 

No important effort was made to reclaim the district till the time 
of John Morton, Bishop of Ely, afterwards a Cardinal and Arch- 
bishop of Canterbury, in the reign of Henry VII. As a grower of 
strawberries he is enshrined in hterature ; but in the history of 

^ Sir Jonas Moore, History of the Great Level of the Fennes (1685), p. 9 ; 
Wells, History of the Bedford Level (1830), vol. i. p. 6 ; Vermuyden, Discourse 
touching the Drayning of the Great Fennes (1642), p. 4. 

2 Andrewes Bm-rell, in his Briefe Relation Discovering Plainely the True 
Causes why the Great Levell of Fenes . . . have been drowned (1642), says that, 
when working for the Earl of Bedford in 1635 in deepening " Wisbeach 
River,"' he " discovered a stony bottonie upon which there was fomid lying 
at severall distances seven boates, which for many yeares had laine buried 
eight foot under the bottome of the river." 



COMPLETION OF THE FEN DRAINAGE 117 

farming his principal achievement was probably suggested by his 
residence in Flanders from 1483 to 1485 as a pohtical refugee. A 
cut, forty feet wide and four feet deep, running from Peterborough 
to Wisbech, still bears the name of " Morton's Learn " and still 
plays an important part in the drainage of the countrJ^ Other 
local efforts were made, which proved for the most part ineffective. 
In spite of individual enterprise, the general condition of the district 
was so deplorable that it attracted the attention of the Government. 
The fens were surveyed, Commissioners and Courts of Sewers 
appointed, and an Act (1601) was passed for the drainage of the 
Great Level. In 1606, under a local Act, a portion of the Isle of 
Ely was reclaimed, the undertakers receiving two-thirds of the land 
thus recovered from the water. In 1626 the drainage of Hatfield 
Chase, Ditchmarsh, and all the lands through which crept the Idle, 
the Aire, and the Don, was commenced by CorneHus Vermuyden. 
Three years later, the greater task was attempted of draining that 
portion of the fens which was afterwards known as the Bedford 
Level. In 1630 the local gentry who formed the Commissioners of 
Sewers, contracted with Vermuyden (now Sir CorneHus) to execute 
the work, and the fourth Earl of Bedford headed the undertaking. 
The work began vigorously enough. In 1637 the Commissioners 
of Sewers certified its completion ; but the winter rains flooded 
the country ; the Earl of Bedford was at the end of his resources ; 
he had spent £100,000, and was in danger of losing it all. The 
certificate of completion was reversed. Charles I. intervened ; 
fresh arrangements were made for the allotment of the recovered 
land ; a new Company of Adventurers was formed ; Vermuyden 
still directed the operations, although his skill was attacked by 
Andrewes Burrell in his Brief e Relation (1642). Vermuyden in his 
defence {Discourse, 1642) pleaded that the only purpose of the 
first Agreement was to make the land " summer ground." The 
new venture was more ambitious. Though the work was partially 
suspended during the Civil War, it proceeded mider the Common- 
wealth. In 1649 the fiifth Earl of Bedford joined the undertaking, 
and, four years later, the drainage was finished. New channels 
and drains were made to carry off the surface water ; existing 
drains were scoured and straightened ; banks were raised to restrain 
the rivers within their beds ; new outfalls into the sea, provided 
with sluices, were made, and old ones deepened and widened ; 
numerous dams were erected to keep out the sea. In 1652 Sir C. 



118 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

Vermuyden reported the completion of the work to the Council, 
saj'ing that " wheat and other grains, besides unnumerable quantities 
of sheep, cattle, and other stock were raised, where never had been 
any before." The Bedford Level was the largest work undertaken. 
It was also the most complete, though even here for a time there 
were failures. Other marshes were attacked by improvers, with 
more or less success. From various causes, however, the water 
often regained its hold on the country. In some cases the Avork 
was only partially finished ; in others, it was so inadequately 
executed by persons whom Blith calls " mountebank engineers, 
idle practitioners, and slothful impatient slubberers," that it broke 
douTi under the rainfall of the first wet season ; in others, the wind- 
mills, which were used to raise the water of the interior districts 
to the levels of the main rivers, could not cope with a flood ; in 
others, the works were destroyed by the femnen, and were not 
really restored till the beginning of the nineteenth century. 

The marshes were to fenmen what wastes and commons were to 
dwellers on their verge. Catching pike and plucking geese were 
more attractive than feeding bullocks or shearing sheep. Any 
change from desultory industries to the settled labour of agriculture 
was in itself distasteful to the commoners, and httle, if any, com- 
pensation was made for their rights or claims to pasture, turf- 
cutting, fishing, or fowling. All over the fen districts there were, 
on the one side, outbursts of popular indignation, and, on the 
other, complaints of the " riotous letts and disturbances of lewd 
persons." The commoners were called to arms by some Tyrtaeus 
of the fens, whose doggerel verses have been preserved by Dugdale 
in his History of Imbanking and Draining : 

Come, brethren of the water, and let us all assemble, 

To treat upon this matter which makes us quake and tremble. 

For we shall rue it, if't be true, the Fens be undertaken, 

And where we feed in fen and reed, they'll feed both beef and bacon. 



Behold the great design, which thej' do now determine, 

Will make our bodies pine, a prey to crows and vermin ; 

For they do mean all fens to drain and waters overmaster ; 

All will be dry and we must die, 'cause Essex calves want pasture. 



The feathered fowls have wings to fly to other nations, 

But we have no such things to help our transportations ; 

We must give place (oh grievous case !) to horned beasts and cattle. 

Except that we can all agree to drive them out by battle. 



DESTRUCTION OF THE DRAINAGE WORKS 119 

Wherefore let us entreat ovir ancient water nurses 

To show their power so great as t'help to drain their purses. 

And send us good old Captain Flood to lead us out\:o battle, 

Then Twopenny Jack with skales on's back will drive out all the cattle. 

The Civil Wars gave the fenmen their opportunity. Vermuyden 
seems to have been personally unpopular : he was a Zealander ; 
most of his workmen were foreigners ; the adventurers who settled 
on the lands which they had reclaimed were French or Dutch 
Protestants. The commoners, moving swiftly and silently in their 
boats, broke dowTi the embankments, fired the mills, fiUed up the 
drains, levelled the enclosures, turned their cattle into the standing 
corn. They attacked the workmen, threw some of them into the 
river, held them under the water with poles, and burnt their tools. 
The perpetrators of the outrages worked so secretly that they could 
rarely be identified. Sometimes their action was bold and open. 
In the neighbourhood of Hatfield Chase, near the Isle of Axholme, 
every day for seven weeks, gangs of commoners, armed with mus- 
kets, drew up the flood-gates so as to let in the flowing tide, and at 
every ebb shut the sluices, threatening that they " would stay till 
the whole level was well drowned, and the inhabitants forced to 
swim away hke ducks." Even the religion of the French and 
Dutch Protestants was not respected. From Epworth in 1656 
comes their petition that the fenmen had made their church a 
slaughter-house and a burying-place for carrion. Major-General 
Whalley was entrusted by Parliament with the task of protecting 
the adventurers. But agitators hke Lilburne and Noddel were at 
work among his soldiers, and the commoners showed no respect 
for the authority of Parhament. " They could make as good a 
Parliament themselves ; it was a Parhament of clouts." In some 
cases the resistance of the fenmen secured them further concessions ; 
in others they succeeded in destroying the works of the under- 
takers. It was not till after 1714 that the riots caused by the 
reclamation ceased to disturb the peace of the country. By that 
time the object was partially achieved, and many of the swamps 
and marshes of the fen districts were restored to the ague-shivering, 
fever-stricken inhabitants in their primitive unproductiveness. 

The struggle for the reclamation of the Avasto-lands of the water- 
drowned fens is another aspect of the older land-battle between 
enclosers and commoners. Men Hke Robert Child in his Large 
Letter in Hartlib's Legacie, or Walter Bhth, championed reclamation 



120 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

for the same reasons that they advocated enclosures. The former, 
writing in 1650 before the drainage was complete, speaks of " that 
great Fen of Lincolneshire, Cambridge, Hungtingdon, consisting, as 
I am Informed, of 380,000 Acres, which is now almost recovered." 
" Very great, therefore," he continues, " is the improvement of 
draining of lands, and our neghgence very great, that they have 
been waste so long, and as j^et so continue in divers places : for the 
improving of a Kingdome is better than the conquering a new 
one." BHth, writing three years later [English Improver Improved, 
1652), speaks of the work as finished. "As to the Drajoiing, or 
laying dry the Fenns," he says, " those profitable works, the Com- 
mon-wealths glory, let not Curs Snarl, nor dogs bark thereat, the 
unparralleld advantages of the World." But when these and 
other writers of the period dealt with enclosures, they treated the 
subject from a new point of view. As a matter of farming, their 
arguments were sound. But economic gain might involve social 
and moral loss, and the Stewart writers on agriculture tried to recon- 
cile the two aspects of the question. In the interests of agricultural 
progress, they are practically unanimous in their advocacy of indi- 
vidual as opposed to common occupation of arable land. But in the 
case of commons of pasture, they vigorously defended the claims of 
the commoners, both tenant-farmers and cottagers. More advanced 
members of the RepubHcan party went beyond the recognition of 
pasture rights, and claimed the common, not for the open-field 
farmers to whose arable holdings it was historically attached, but 
for the general pubhc — irrespective of claims arising from neighbour- 
hood or from the tillage of adjacent land. On the practical assertion 
of such claims a curious side-Ught is throwTi by the proceedings of 
Jerrard Winstanley in 1649. 

Winstanley and his friends sought to establish a society having 
all things in common. With this object they settled on the common 
lands of St. George's Hill, near Walton-on-Thames, and began to 
plough, cultivate, and enclose the land. Lord Fairfax's soldiers 
burned their huts, and turned them off. Winstanley, in the jargon 
of the day, identified the struggle, in which his personal profits 
were staked, with the prophetic Armageddon " between the Lamb 
of Righteousness . . . and the Dragon of Um-ighteousness." Need- 
less to say, he found himself a champion of the former. He sets 
forth his claims in a pamphlet addressed to the General as A Letter 
to the Lord Fairfax and his Council of War : . . . Proving it an 



A COMMUNISTIC SOCIETY 121 

undeniable Equity That the Common People ought to dig, plow, plant, 
and dwell upon the Commons, without hiring them or paying Rent to 
any. He was, he says, opposed by none save " one or two covetous 
freeholders that would have all the commons to themselves, and 
that would uphold the Norman tyranny over us, which by the 
victory that you have got over the Norman successor is plucked 
up by the roots and therefore ought to be cast away." In other 
words, the effect of the Civil War and of the defeat of Charles I., as 
interpreted by his school of thought, was to estabHsh the rights of 
the people to " have the land freed from the entanglement of lords, 
lords of manors, and landlords, which are our taskmasters," " to 
enter on their inheritance," and "dig, plow, plant and dwell upon the 
Commons " without rent, and improve them " f or a public treasury 
and livehhood." Instead of the existing law, the rule was to be 
established of " First come, first served." For this appropriation 
and improvement of the commons the inspiration of the " Lamb 
of Righteousness " was claimed, so long as the new possessors were 
Winstanley and his communistic society ; but the same processes 
were the direct suggestion of the " Dragon of Unrighteousness," if 
the work was carried out by the adjacent owners and cultivators 
of the soil. In either case, whoever was the encloser, the general 
pubhc gained no advantage ; the pasture commons were ploughed, 
enclosed, and appropriated to individuals. 

The episode is significant. Probably Winstanley had, and has, 
sympathisers. But the views of those practical agriculturists, who 
were interested in the enclosure and tillage of open-fields and 
commons in order to accelerate farming progress, were less revolu- 
tionary. Had they been carried into effect, much social loss might 
have been averted. From the purely commercial side, their argu- 
ments in favour of converting open-field land into separate holdings 
and of enclosing the commons and wastes were overwhelming. 
There need be no depopulation, for tillage would be increased. If 
the rights of commoners were respected, the social drawbacks to 
the change might be removed. The whole question was assuming 
a new form. The improvements in arable farming suggested by 
Stewart and Commonwealth Moi-iters minimised the social loss caused 
by enclosures, at the same time that they magnified the economic 
waste of the open-field system. 

Tudor farmers had treated arable and pasture farming as two 
distinct branches, which could not be combined. On open-field 



122 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

land, though some hve-stock was maintained by means of commons, 
the energies of farmers were almost exclusively concentrated on 
corn. On enclosed land, corn might be comparatively relegated 
to the background, and the farmer's mainstays were meat, dairy 
produce, and, if a flock-master, wool. So long as this rigid dis- 
tinction was maintained, enclosures often meant depopulation and 
a dwindling wheat-area. ExjDerience was crystalKsed into the 
proverb " No balks, no com." It is true that, towards the end 
of Elizabeth's reign, the advantages which enclosures gave to the 
enterprise of the arable farmer were reahsed, and land began to be 
fenced off, not for pasture only, but also for tillage. But the 
economic case for enclosures was enormously strengthened, when the 
real pivots of mixed husbandry were discovered, and when Stewart 
agriculturists found that neither turnips, nor clover, nor artificial 
grasses, nor potatoes, nor drainage, were possible on open-fields 
which were held in common for half the year. Yet the experience 
of the previous two hundred years had created a mass of well- 
founded prejudice, which fought stubbornly against any extension 
of the practice of enclosing land. It is for this reason, probably, 
that the best ^vriters of the Stewart and Commonwealth period 
labour hard to prove that enclosures of open-fields and commons, 
whatever their past history had been, necessitated neither depopula- 
tion nor decay of tillage, and might even promote not only economic 
but social gain. 

In his Book of Surveying (1523) Fitzherbert had wTitten on the 
way " to make a township that is w^orth 20 marks a year w^orth 
£20 a year." His plan was to discover, fii'st, how many acres of 
arable land each man occupied in the open-fields, how much meadow, 
and what proportion of common pasture were attached to his hold- 
ing ; and secondly, by means of exchange, to consoUdate these 
lands, lay them together, and enclose them in several occupation. 
Every man should have " one httle croft or close next to his house." 
In the Brief e Examination (1549) the Doctor, who represents the 
author's views, only condemns those enclosures of land which were 
made for the conversion of tillage into pasture, or " without 
recompence of them that have right to comen therein." It was 
on this principle that in 1545 the Royal Avastes of Hounslow Heath 
were enclosed under the award of Commissioners, who set out a 
portion of the heath to each inhabitant ; either as copyholds, or 
on leases for terms of years. 



"THREE ACRES AND A COW" 123 

Sentiments like these became the commonplaceS~of Stewart and 
Commonwealth waiters. The demand for " three acres and a 
cow " can show an origin of respectable antiquity. Gabriel Plattes 
(1639) ^ pleads that all parties would gain by enclosures, landowners 
by increased rents, clergymen by improved tithes, the poor by 
increased employment. " I could wish," he adds, " that in every 
Parish where Commons are inclosed, a corner might be laid to the 
j)oore mens houses, that every one might keep a Cow or for the 
maintenance of his familie two." The wish of the Stewart ^\Titer 
had been expressed by a Tudor predecessor a century earlier. 
Thomas Becon- m 1540 had suggested that landlords should 
attach to every cottage enough " land to keep a cow or two." Walter 
Blith^ argues vigorously in favour of enclosures, and quotes with 
approval the whole of Tusser's poem comparing " champion " 
(open) and " severall " land. Of open-field farmers he says " hve 
they do indeed, very many in a mean, low condition, with hunger 
and care. Better do those in Bridewell. And for the best of 
them, they live as uncomfortably, moyling and toyhng and drudg- 
ing. What they get they spend." But in all enclosures he expressly 
makes the condition that all interests should be provided for — not 
only those of the landlord, but those also of the " Minister to the 
People," the '" Freeholder Farmer or Tenant," and the " Poor 
Labourer or Cottier." All these, he says, would gain by the process. 
He takes the last first : " Look what right or Interest he hath in 
Common, I'U first allot out his proportion into severall with the 
better rather than with the worse, a Proportion out of everyman's 
inheritance." At the same time he condemns " depopulating 
Inclosure . . . such as former oppressive times by the will and 
power of some crueU Lord either through his greatness or purchased 
favour at Court, or in the Common Courts of England, by his purse 
and power could do anything, inclose, depopulate, destroy, ruine all 
Tillage, and convert all to pasture without any other Improvement 
at all . . . which hath brought men to conceive, that because men 
did depopulate by Enclosure, therefore it is now impossible to 
enclose without Depopulation." 

To the same effect as Blith writes Robert Child in the " Large 

^ A Discovery of Infinite Treasure, Hidden since the World's Beginning, by 
G(abriel) P(lattes), 1639. 

2 The Jewel of Joy, 1540. 

' English Improver Improved, ed. 1653. 



124 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

Letter " in Hartlib's Legacie (1651). He regards wastes and 
commons as defects in English husbandry, and in defence of his 
position asks eight questions, which he does not attempt to answer, 
preferring to leave " the determination for wiser heads." 

1. " Whether or no these lands might not be improved very much 
by the Husbandry of Flaunders (viz.) by sowing Flax, Turneps, great 
Clover-Grasse, if that Manure be made by folding Sheepe after the 
Flaunders way, to keepe it in heart ? 

2. " Whether the Rottennesse and Scabbinesse of Sheepe, Murrein 
of Cattel, Diseases of horses, and in general all diseases of Cattel 
do not especially proceed from Commons ? 

3. " If the rich men, who are able to keepe great stockes are not 
great gainers by them ? 

4. " Whether Commons do not rather make poore, by causing 
idlenesse than maintaine them : and such poor, who are trained 
up rather for the Gallon es or beggery, than for the Commonwealths 
service ? 

5. " HoAv it Cometh to passe, that there are fewest poore, where 
there are fewest Commons, as in Kent, where there is scarce 6 Com- 
mons in the County of a considerable greatnesse ? ^ 

6. " How many do they see enriched by the Commons : and if 
their Cattel be not usually swept away by the Rot, or starved in 
some hard winters ? 

7. "If that poore men might not imploy 2 Acres enclosed to more 
advantage, than twice as much in a Common ? 

" And lastly, if that all Commons were enclosed, and part given to 
the Inhabitants, and part rented out, for a stock to set the poore 
on worke in every County." 

BHth not only quoted Tusser in support of his opinion, but adds 
that " all that ever I yet saw or read " held the same opinion. 
" Tis true I have met with one or two small Pieces, as M. Spriggs, 
and another whose name I remember not, that \vTite against depopu- 
lating Inclosure, with whom I freely joyn and approve." It is 
probable that he aUudes to Henry Halhead's Inclosure Thrown Open 
etc. (1650), to which Joshua Sprigge of Banbury contributed a 

^ Tusser held the same opinion that poverty and commons go together. 
In his comparison between " Champion Country and Severall " he writes : 

" T'one barefoot and ragged doth go 
And ready in winter to starve ; 
When t'other you see not do so. 
But hath that is needful to serve." 



THE CASE AGAINST ENCLOSURES 125 

Preface. The tract is an appeal against enclosures, mainly based 
on past history. It probably belongs to a group of pamphlets 
dealing with the Midland counties, where the enclosing movement 
seems to have been active. Halhead describes how would-be 
enclosers begin by upsetting the field customs by which the cultiva- 
tion of the land was regulated ; how they tell the people that they 
will be three times as well off, that enclosure stops strife and con- 
tention, " nourisheth Wood in hedges," and keeps sheep from 
rotting. If they cannot prevail by these promises, they begin a 
suit at law, and make the resisters dance attendance at the laAv- 
courts for months and even years. Then they pull out then purses, 
and offer to buy them out. If this fails, on goes the suit till a decree 
against the ojDen-field partners is granted in Chancery. The 
description bears the stamp of accuracy. But, logically, neither 
the old methods of enclosing nor the results of the conversion of 
tillage into pasture really met the case put forward by the new 
advocates of enclosure as an instrument both of social and 
agricultural progress. 

The case for enclosures of open-field farms and commons is 
vigorously stated in three tracts ; one by S. Taylor (1652) ; ^ another 
by Adam Moore (1653) ; 2 the third by Joseph Lee (1656).^ Their 
arguments are mainly based on the wretched conditions of the 
commons, the poor farming of open-field land, and the social and 
agricultural gain which, as Lee's practical experience had shown, 
resulted from individual occupation. None of the three authors 
alludes to the recent discoveries of roots, clover, and grasses, or to 
the improved methods of drainage, on which BHth and others so 
strongly relied. Of Taylor nothing is known, except that his tract 
shows him to have been a vehement assailant of ale-houses. Moore 
tells us that he was a Somersetshire man. The Rev. Joseph Lee 
was a Leicestershire " Minister of the Gospel " at Cotesbach, who 
had been violently attacked by his professional brethren for the 

^ Common Good : or the Improvement of Commons, Forests, and Chases by 
Inclosure, by S. T(aylor), 1652. 

^ Bread for the Poor . . . Promised by Enclosure of the Wastes and Common 
Grounds of England, by Adam Moore, Gent. 1653. 

^ EvTa^ia ToO 'A7poO ; or a Vindication of a Regulated Enclosure, etc., by 
Joseph Lee, Minister of the Gospel, 1656. 

The contrary view to that taken by Lee was stated by John Moore, Minister 
of Knaptoft in Leicestershire, whose tract The Crying Sin of England of not 
Caring for the Poor, etc., was published in 1653. Moore's Scripture Word 
against Inclosure (1656) was an answer to Lee. 



126 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

share he had himself taken in the enclosure of Catthorp Common. 
In his Epistle to the Reader he explains why he preferred to reply 
to these attacks by a tract and not by a sermon : "I am very 
sensible that if our pulpits had sounded more of the things of 
Christ, and lesse of the things of the world, it had been better with 
us then it is this day." Part of the tract consists of hard text- 
fighting ; but its value hes in the facts which he quotes from his 
own experience. 

Enclosures, in the opmion of the three vATiters, are not only 
" laA\-full " but " laudable." They injure none, but profit all. 
Lee considers that five classes ought to be considered, landlords, 
ministers, the poor, cottagers, and tenant-farmers. Moore omits 
the ministers, but asserts the claims of the remaining four classes. 
All three wTiters agree that a certain portion of the Commons ought 
to be set aside for the poor, and the rest proportionately divided. 
This, says Lee, was the princij)le adopted at Catthorp. If this 
were done, there need be no depopulation. In proof Lee mentions 
a number of parishes in Leicestershire, where the land had been 
enclosed Avithout any decay of population, houses, or tillage. 
Neither would it lead to any diminution of useful employment. 
The same number of maid-servants would be employed ; and 
though there might be fewer lads, they would be more useful 
citizens if set to some trade. On the industrial gain thus derived 
from enclosures the three authors are also agreed. They in effect 
answer the fourth question asked by Robert Child in the " Large 
Letter " in Hartlib's Legacie with an unhesitating affirmative. At 
the beginning of the century, Norden (1607) had drawn attention 
to the character of the squatters who settled on the edges of wastes 
and commons. He describes them as " people given to Uttle or 
no labour, living very hardly with oaten bread and sour whey and 
goat's milk, dwelHng far from any church or chaj)el, ... as ignorant 
of God or of anj' civil course of life as the very savages among the 
infidels, in a manner which is lamentable and fit to be reformed by 
the lord of the manor." Fifty j-ears later, according to the three 
authors, commons were blots on the social life of the nation. 
Children, says Taylor, are " brought up Lazying upon a Common 
to attend one Cow and a few sheep," and " being nursed up in 
idleness in their youth the}'^ become indisj)osed for labor, and then 
begging is their portion or Theevery their Trade. , . . The two 
great Nurseries of Idlenesse and Beggery etc. are Ale-houses and 



THE CASE FOR ENCLOSURES 127 

Commons." Taj^lor says that " people are nowhere-more penurious 
than such as border on commons." " This poverty," he explains, 
" is due to God's displeasure at the idleness of the Borderers," or 
commoners. They have no settled industry. They look to the 
profits of a horse or cow. if they can keep one ; if not, they can at 
least " compass a goose or a sv\dne." If they have no Hve-stock at 
all, thej' are '" sure of furze, fern, bushes, or cowdung, for fuel to 
keep them warm in winter." They can beguile, writes Moore, the 
" silly Woodcock and his feathered fellows by tricks and traps of 
then" own painful framing," and so gain money enough to keep them 
till they have to work again. Sometimes they earn a few shillings 
by guarding the flocks and herds of others. But, if a sheep or a cow 
is missing, the " chuck-fists " will not pay them their wage, but 
suspect them of theft, and proceed against them by law. The 
Commons are, in fact, " Nurseries of Thieves and Horse-stealers." 
Lee is of the same opinion that commons fostered idleness. 
Perhaps, he admits, "3 or 4 shepherd boj^es " by enclosures " will 
be necessitated to lay aside that idle employment ; . . . destructive 
to the soules of those Lads, in that, poor creatures, they are brought 
up by this means without either civill or reHgious education." 
When they should have been at school or at church, they were 
'■ plajnng at nine-holes under a bush," while their cattle make a 
prey on their neighbour's corn, and " they themselves are made a 
prey to Satan." Other moral gains are alleged that by enclosure 
an end is put to occasions for litigation and strife between 
common-field farmers, or for quarrels between herdsmen, and that 
there are fewer opportunities for pilferings of land and of corn, or 
for the destruction of a neighbour's crops by turning m horses and 
cattle under pretence that they have broken loose from their 
tethers. 

It is not true, in the opinion of the three ^^Titers, that enclosures 
necessarily destroy tfilage. On the contrary, the cheapness and 
abundance of corn are due to the opportunities that enclosures 
aft'ord for breaking up worn-out pastures which jdeld double the 
quantities produced on common fields. Nor is it true that enclosers 
are under a curse so that the land passes out of their famihes. 
Instances to the contrary are adduced from Leicestershire, and that 
cannot be a special curse on enclosures which is a fate common to 
all other landholders. Enclosure may diminish the number of 
horses ; but one horse well kept is worth three so " jaded and tjTed 



128 FROM JAMES I. TO THE RESTORATION 

as are the horses of common-field farmers." Nor is it any tjrranny 
for the majority to enforce enclosure where the whole body of 
partners are not unanimous. At Catthorp one man with common 
for seven sheep stood out. The rest overruled him ; but he lost 
nothing. All that the other commoners did was to enclose their 
portions of the common away from him. That the agricultural 
gain is great, scarcely admits of a doubt. On open-fields the corn- 
land is worn out. It can only be induced to bear at all by constant 
ploughings and hberal manurings, which absorb all profits in labour 
and charges. Even then there is often httle more than a bare 
return of seed, poor in quahty — " small humble-Bee-Ears with 
little grains." The pease land is no better ; it may provide enough 
for seed and keep of the horses ; but it yields no clear profit. The 
live-stock that are reared on the commons are dwarfed and under- 
sized ; they are driven long distances to and fro, so that they have 
neither rest nor quiet. Colts, raised on the commons, by cold and 
famine come to no good. " Cattle, nurtured there, grow to such 
brockish and starved stature " that, living, they grieve the o"UTier's 
eye, and, dead, deceive the Commonwealth. Sheep do better ; but 
they even are so pinched that they make httle profit. One sheep 
in an enclosure is worth two on a common. There are five rots in 
the open-fields to one rot in enclosed land. The commons are 
over-stocked. They are, says Moore, " Pest-houses of disease for 
cattle. Hither come the Poor, the Bhnde, Lame, Tired, Scabbed, 
Mangie, Rotten, Murrainous." No order is kept ; but milch cows, 
young beasts, sheep, horses, swine — often unringed — and geese are 
turned out together. Furze and heath are encouraged by com- 
moners, because they keep cattle and sheep aHve in hard winter 
when fodder is scarce ; but the same space covered with grass 
Avould be more useful. That which is every man's is no man's, 
and no one tries to better the commons. When it is everybody's 
interest to improve the pasture, it is nobody's business to do the 
work. 

The whole subject of enclosures had yet to be fought out. From 
the point of view of production, the change was desirable ; no 
pressure of population as yet made it necessary. Commons were 
essential to the existence of those open-field farms, which advocates 
of agricultural imj)rovement recognised as an obstacle to pro- 
gress ; but new methods and new resources had as yet hardly 
advanced beyond theories. Neither the argument from increased 



ALTERED TONE RESPECTING ENCLOSURES 129 

productiveness, nor the appeal for progress, had -gained their full 
force. Yet the altered tone of agricultural writers is significant. 
It was almost as incontestably in favour of enclosure as the tone 
of Elizabethan writers had been opposed to the process. Generahsa- 
tion from handfuls of particular instances is always easy. A 
large tract of country might have been improved and enclosed with 
the approval of all parties. But there were the widest differences 
between commons, or between commons and moors, wastes, and 
bogs. Moore himself reserves his bitterest condemnation for what 
he calls " marish," as opposed to " uplandish," commons. Stress 
might be laid on the moral influences of common land either way, 
and self-interest or bias is always prone to conceal itself under the 
mask of moral motives. The same rights might encourage industry 
and thrift, or idleness and crime. It was doubtless illogical to argue 
that enclosures must always depopulate, whether the change was 
effected with or without regard to the claims of cottagers and small 
commoners, or for the purpose of increasing the area either of 
tillage or of pasture. Yet those who had suffered from enclosures 
were not unjustified in the conclusion that history would repeat 
itself. Whichever way the question was ultimately decided, it 
could not fail to affect the condition of the rural population for 
better or for worse, and to affect it profoundly. Unfortunately 
the decision was made, in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, 
under an economic pressure which completely overrode the social 
considerations that should have controlled and modified the process 
of enclosure. 



CHAPTER VI. 

THE LATER STEWARTS AND THE REVOLUTION. 
1660-1700. 

Worlidge's Systema AgricuUurae (1669) : improvements suggested by agri- 
cultural writers ; tjTanny of custom ; contempt for book-farming ; slow 
progress in farming skiU ; general standard low ; horses, cattle, sheep, 
and pigs in the seventeenth century ; want of leaders ; growing influence 
of landowners ; the finance of the Restoration, and the abolition of 
military tenures ; legislation to promote agriculture ; Gregory King on 
the State and Condition of England and Wales in 1696 : the distribution 
of population and wealth. 

The practical improvements, which had been suggested by " Rustick 
Authors " in the first sixty years of the seventeenth century, were 
collected by John WorHdge in his Systema AgricuUurae (1669). 
Five editions of this " first systematic treatise on farming " show 
that it was for some time regarded as a standard authority. Free 
from the extravagant promises of his predecessors, WorHdge sum- 
marises their most useful recommendations. Inordinate space is 
stiU allotted to such topics as trees, orchards, " garden tyllage," 
bees, and silkworms, which occupy 106 pages out of a total number 
of 217. On the side of stock-breeding and stock-rearing his book 
remains especially defective. For information on this subject he 
merel}^ refers readers in a general way to other WTiters. Three 
pages only are devoted to the section " Of Beasts," in which the 
special quahties required for the different uses of horses, cattle, 
and sheep are whoUy ignored ; only in the case of dogs does Wor- 
Hdge appear to recognise the variety of purposes for which animals 
are bred. 

Even the most practical work on farming which was pubHshed 
in the seventeenth century is iU-balanced and defective. Yet it 
is remarkable how many of the triumphs of nineteenth century 
farming were anticipated by these early wTiters, a century and a 



PREPARATIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL ADVANCE 131 

half before the improvements were generally adopted. Already 
the germs of a proper rotation of crops had been implanted, and a 
few advanced husbandmen, familiar with the methods of the Low 
Countries, had realised that, in roots and clovers, they commanded 
the means, not only of keeping more stock, but of increasing the 
yield of corn. Already some of the drawbacks of broad-cast 
sowing had been pointed out, and the advantages of setting in 
regular rows suggested. Already the foreign use of oil-cake for 
cattle had been observed and recommended to Enghsh farmers. 
But, as Mortimer ^ notices, Lincolnshire farmers, after pressing out 
the " oyl " from their coleseed, preferred to " burn the cakes to 
heat their Ovens." Already also the field-cultivation of potatoes 
had been suggested, and it is a coincidence that the suggestion was 
made only a few years after the drainage of those fens, on the clover- 
sick soil of which, two centuries and a half later, the adoption of 
the crop worked a revolution. Already the use of silos and of 
ensilage, the storage of water iii tanks for dry districts, the value 
of coverings to rick-stands, even the utihty of the incubator for 
rearing poultry — a box heated by a candle or a lamp — had been 
urged on Stewart agriculturists. In a tentative fashion the " Rus- 
tiek Authors " were feeling after improved agricultural machinery. 
Googe's reaping car, the double-furrow plough of the " ingenious 
yeoman of Kent," Plattes' corn-setter, the corn driU depicted by 
WorHdge, which made the furrow, sowed the seed, and deposited 
the manure, were the ancestors of many useful inventions. Still 
more vaguely Stewart writers were looking for the aid of science. 
Its future benefits could not, of course, be foreseezi. But the 
demand for an Agricultural College, the recognition of the work 
of the Royal Society, the study of such books as WilHs' Defermenta- 
tione or Glauber's Miraculum Mundi, in which an attempt was 
made to analyse the elements that contribute to vegetation, show 
that expectations had been aroused. Already a Land Registry, 
by which land could be made to pass as freely as money, had been 
suggested by Andrew Yarranton. Already also the aboHtion of 
" slavish customs," and of " III Tenures as Copyhold, Knight- 
Service etc," which " much discourage Improvements and are (as 
I suppose) Badges of our Norman Slavery " was demanded. The 
Hares and Rabbits legislation had been foreshadowed in the out- 

1 The whole Art of Htisbandry ; or the Way of Managing and Improving of 
Land (1707). 



132 LATER STEWARTS AND THE REVOLUTION 

cry against the destruction of growing crops by " coneys," and 
hares which in 1696, according to Gregory King's minute calcula- 
tion, numbered 24,000. The necessity for General Highway and 
Enclosure Acts had been urged on the country. The prelude to 
the long struggle for compensation for unexhausted improvements 
had been sounded. Even the twentieth century agitation for pure 
bread had been anticipated in the protest that " the corruption of 
the best aliments, as bread, and which are in most use with us, 
causeth the worst Epidemicall Diseases." 

Here and there some changes in farming practices had been made 
for the better. But such progress was purely local, and rarely 
survived the individual by whom it was effected. Traditional 
methods were jealously guarded as agricultural heirlooms. Even 
ocular proof of the superior advantages derived from improvements 
failed to drive the John Trot geniuses of farming from the beaten 
track in which their ancestors had plodded. Circumstances com- 
bined to render the force of custom tyrannical. The agrarian 
partnerships on village farms opposed a natural obstacle to change. 
On open-fields, where the rotations of crops were fixed by imme- 
morial usage, based on the common rights of the whole body of 
associated farmers, no individual could move hand or foot to effect 
improvements. Unless a large number of joint occupiers, often 
ignorant, suspicious, and prejudiced, agreed to forgo common 
rights and adopt turnips and clover, it was impossible to introduce 
their cultivation. The enterprise of twenty farmers might be 
checked by the apathy or caution of one. It was for this reason 
mainly that WorHdge addresses his treatise to the " gentry and 
yeomanry," and that he thinks the moment opportune for improve- 
ment, because so many farmers had been obhged to give up their 
holdings owing to " the great Plenty and Smallness of Value of the 
Ordinary Productions of the Earth,'" which left no profit to those 
who " exercised onely the Vulgar Methods of Agriculture." Even 
if the new materials for agricultural wealth were successfullj'^ intro- 
duced by some energetic landlord or tenant on an enclosed farm, 
the result of the experiment was rarely known beyond the im- 
mediate neighbourhood. Each village was at once isolated and 
self-sufficing. Communication was difficult ; frequented roads 
were often impassable except for a well-mounted horseman or a 
coach drawn by eight horses. Education had not spread to the 
class to which farmers generally belonged. Letters were rarely 



ISOLATION OF VILLAGES 133 

interchanged. Visits were seldom paid. The only form in which 

information could be disseminated was in books or pamphlets, and 

in remote villages buyers were few or none. Newspapers had 

hardly begun to exist. The first attempt to found a scientific 

agricultural paper was made by John Houghton, whose Collection 

of Letters for the Improvement of Husbandry and Trade appeared 

in a weekly series from 1681 to 1683, and again from 1692 

to 1703. It is improbable that the circulation could have been 

extensive even among the wealthiest of the country gentry. 

Rumours of the progress of the outside world scarcely penetrated 

to distant villages. Farmers of one district knew Httle more of 

the practices of the next than they did of those of Kamchatka. 

Beyond the limited range of their horizon, their neighbours were 

only 

" Anthropophagi, and men whose heads 
Do grow beneath their shoulders." 

In this extreme isolation must be sought a fruitful cause for the 
slow diffusion of agricultural improvements. Another cause lay 
in the absence of any strong incentive to raise more produce from 
the soil than was requisite for the immediate wants of the producers. 
Markets were, in many parts of England, not only difficult of access 
but few in number. From vast and crowded haunts of labour 
and trade the cry of the artisan had not yet arisen for bread and 
meat. As soon as the farmer had satisfied the needs of himself, 
his family, and his rent, his work was done. Till a wider demand 
for agricultural produce had been created by the rapid growth of 
population which resulted from the development of manufacturing 
industries, and till the new markets had been brought to the 
farmer's door by improved means of communication, the supply 
was mainly regulated by the wants of the producer himself. 

Another cause for the neglect of improvements has been already 
mentioned. A contempt for book-farmers, which was not wholly 
unjustifiable, partially explains the slow adoption of new methods 
and new crops. Of this class of agricultural writers, Thomas 
Tryon affords an interesting example. Like most men of his kind, 
he was a " Jack of all trades." He was a voluminous writer on a 
miscellaneous variety of subjects — against drinking brandy and 
" smoaking tobacco," upon brewing ale and beer, upon medical 
topics, upon dreams and visions, on the benefit of clean beds, on 
the generation of bugs, on the pain in the teeth. He also com- 



134 LATER STEWAETS AND THE REVOLUTION 

posed a " short discourse " of a Pjrthagorean and a mystic. His 
agricultural book, The Countryman's Companion (1681), is chiefly 
noticeable for its account of that " Monsterous, Mortifying Dis- 
temper, the Rot," and for the strange remedies which he suggests 
for the preservation of sheep from that disorder. Thomas Trj^on 
is an admirable representative of the class of writers who brought 
the book-farmer into disrepute. But already true science was 
coming to the aid of agriculture. The Sylva (1664) and Terra (1676) 
of John Evelyn are known to all well-read agriculturists, and John 
Ray's Catalogue Plantarum Angliae (1670) marks an epoch in the 
history of botanical science. 

All these conditions combined to raise formidable obstacles to 
the diffusion of improvements in farming. Agricultural writers 
scarcety expected that the changes they suggested would be adopted. 
Donaldson, for instance, says that people will probably answer him 
with " Away with your fool Notions ; there are too many Bees in 
your Bonet-case. We will satisfie ourselves with such Measures as 
our Fathers have followed hitherto." Farmers, says Harthb's 
Legacie, did not venture to attempt innovations lest they should 
be called " projectors." Bradley, Professor of Botany at Cambridge, 
complains in his Complete Body of Husbandry (1727), that if he were 
to advise farmers " about improvements, they will ask me whether 
I can hold a plough, for in that they think the whole mystery of 
husbandry consists." It was long before clover emerged " from the 
fields of gentlemen into common use " ; it did not penetrate into 
Suffolk villages till the eighteenth century. In Worcestershire 
and adjoining districts the personal efforts of Andrew Yarranton 
in 1653-77 had for the time estabhshed its use. But " farmers, ' 
says Jethro Tull, wTiting in the reign of George II., "if ad^ased to 
sow clover would certainly reply, ' Gentlemen might sow it if they 
pleased, but they (the farmers) must take care to pay their rents.' " 
Even more obstinate was the resistance to turnips. It was of little 
use that Worhdge in his Systema (1669) urged upon farmers the 
cultivation of roots ; or that Reeve (1670) reprinted Weston's advice 
to use turnips as the best methods of improving " barren and heathy 
land " ; or that Houghton (1684) described the benefits which had 
resulted in Norfolk and Essex from growing them as winter food 
for sheep. Even their advocates had not yet appreciated the full 
value of roots. Worhdge ^ in 1683 had observed that " sheep fatten 
^ Houghton's Collections on Husbandry and Trade (ed. 1728), vol. iv. p. 142. 



SLOW ACCEPTANCE OF NEW CROPS 135 

very well on turnips, which prove an excellent nourishment for 
them in hard winters, when fodder is scarce ; for they will not only 
eat the greens, but feed on the roots in the ground, and scoop them 
hollow even to the very skin." Houghton ^ in 1694 Avrites that 
" Some in Essex have their fallow after turneps, which feed their 
sheep in winter, by which means their turneps are scooped, and so 
made capable to hold dews and rain water which, by corrupting, 
imbibes the nitre of the air, and when the shell breaks, it runs about 
and fertihzes. By feeding the sheep, the land is dung'd as if it 
had been folded ; and these turneps, tho' few or none be carried 
off for human use, are a very excellent improvement ; nay, some 
reckon it so, tho' they only plough the turneps in, without 
feeding." They made but slow progress. Sir John Cullum, in his 
History of the Manor of Hawsted, preserves the name of Michael 
Houghton as the first man in that Suffolk parish, who about 1700 
raised a crop of turnips on two acres of his land. " I introduced 
turnips into the field," says Tull, " in King WiUiam's reign ; but 
the practice did not travel beyond the hedges of my estate tiU after 
the Peace of Utrecht " (1713). Potatoes were even less successful. 
John Forster (1664) had, as has been already noticed, urged their 
adoption as a field crop. Houghton notices that they had been 
brought from Ireland " to Lancashire, where they are very numerous, 
and now they begin to spread all the Kingdom over. They are a 
pleasant food boiled or roasted, and eaten with butter and sugar." ^ 
But Mortimer {Whole Art of Husbandry, etc., 1707) despised them 
even in the garden as " very near the Nature of the Jerusalem 
Artichoak, which is not so good or wholesome. These are planted 
either of the Roots or Seeds, and may probably be propagated in 
great Quantities, and prove a good food for Swine." Neither 
clover nor turnips became general in England before the latter 
half of the eighteenth century, and potatoes were not extensively 
grown till fifty years later, when their value was urged on the 
country by the Board of Agriculture. 

The widest differences existed between the farming of various 
districts. The general level was extremely low. But in individual 
cases a high standard was attained, and the best possible use made 
of such resources as agriculturists could command. In natural 
fertihty the Vale of Taunton, which Norden calls the " Paradise of 
England," was pre-eminent. The best pastures, according to the 
^ Ibid. vol. i. p. 213. * Collections, etc. vol. ii. p. 469. 



136 LATER STEWARTS AND THE REVOLUTION 

same authority, were at Crediton and Welshpool. In arable 
farming, says Mascall, or his editor, Ruscam, the seasons for the 
operations of agriculture, as well as the choice of implements must 
depend on the character of the soil. Thus on the " stiffe clayes of 
Huntingdonshire, Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire," on " mixt soils 
that are good and fruitful, as Northamptonshire, Hartfordshire, most 
parts of Kent, Essex, Barkshire," on " hght and dry grounds which 
have also a certain natural fruitfulness in them as in Norfolk, 
Suffolk, most parts of Lincolnshire, Hampshire and Surrey " — 
farmers will adapt themselves to circumstances. On " the barren 
and unfruitful earths, as in Devonshire, Cornwall, many parts of 
Wales, Darbyshire, Lancashire, Cheshire, Yorkshire," they must 
profit by experience. " The best corn land in Europe," in the 
opinion of Gabriel Plattes, was the Vale of Bel voir. The best 
cheeses were made at Banbury, in Cheshire, or in the Chedder 
district. But the latter, says Harthb's Legacie, were " seldom 
seen but at Noblemans tables or rich Vintners Sellars." In some 
places the new crops recommended by the Stewart writers had 
been tried. Liquorice was grown with success at Pontefract in 
Yorkshire and at " Godliman " in Surrey ; saffron was estabhshed 
in Essex and Cambridgeshire ; canary seed and caraways were 
tried in Kent and Oxfordshire ; hops were not confined to Kent, 
but had spread into Suffolk, Essex, Surrey, and other counties ; 
sainfoin had been tested at Cobham in Kent ; weld, used for dyeing 
of "bright Yellows and Limon-colours," flourished near Canter- 
bury ; madder and woad had been proved to be profitable crops ; 
the best flax and hemp ^ were grown near Maidstone, where a 
thread factory had been recently estabhshed, at Bow and Stratford 
in Essex, and in Nottinghamshire. At a later date the district 
round Beccles in Suffolk was famous for its hemp ; rape and cole- 
seed were estabhshed in Kent, Lincolnshire, and elsewhere. Kent, 
Worcestershire, Herefordshire, Gloucestershire, and the neighbour- 
hood of London were famous for their apples, and as many as 200 
varieties were collected in a smgle orchard. The cherries of Kent 
and the quinces of Essex were in chief repute. " There are now," 
writes WiUiam Hughes,^ " in Kent and other places of this Nation, 

^England's Improvement, and Seasonable Advice, etc. (London, 1691) is 
an anonymous treatise on the growth of hemp and flax. 

* The Compleat Vineyard, by William Hughes, 1665. A second and enlarged 
edition appeared in 1670, and The Flower Garden and Compleat Vineyard 
in 1683. 



HORSES AND CATTLE 137 

such Vineyards and Wall-vines as produce great store of excellent 
good wdne." 

Increased attention was also being paid to Hve-stock, and the 
values of distinctive breeds of horses, cattle, sheep, and pigs were 
discussed. If Gervase Markham's Cheape and good Husbandry 
(edition of 1631) is compared with Mortimer's Whole Art of 
Husbandry (1707), some idea may be formed of the views of the 
seventeenth centurj'^ on stock-breeding. 

On horses, Markham, in spite of the criticism of Child already- 
quoted, was reputed an authority. " Now for the choyse of the 
best Horse," he -uTites, " it is divers according to the use for which 
you wiW imploy him." Of " Horses for the Warre," he says, " the 
courser of Naples is accounted the best, the Almaine, the Sardinian, 
or the French." " For a Prince's Seat, any supreame Magistrate, 
or for any great Lady of state," he recommends a " milkewhite " or 
" faire dapple gray " steed of Enghsh breed : failing that, a 
" Hungarian, Swethland, Poland, or Irish " horse. The best hunter 
he finds in " the Enghsh horse, bastardized with any of the former 
Races first spoake of." The finest race-horses are '' the Arabian, 
Barbary, or his bastard-Jennets, but the Turkes are better." 
" For travaile or burthen " the best is the Enghsh horse, and " the 
best for ease is the Irish-hobby." '' For portage, that is for the 
Packe or Hampers," and '• for the Cart or Plough," he makes no 
selection. For coach horses, he chooses the large Enghsh gelding, 
or the Flemish mare, or the Flemish or Frisian horse. There were 
doubtless already distinctive breeds in England, such as the York- 
shire saddle-horses of the Cleveland district, the heavy Black Horse 
of the Midlands, the Suffolk Punch, or the West-country pack- 
horse ; but they are not mentioned by Markham. Nor does Mor- 
timer refer to any Enghsh breeds. He tells us, however, that 
Leicestershire was in his day one of the great horse-breedmg counties, 
and that Hertfordshire farmers bought the colts as two-year-olds, 
and sold them " at about six Years old to Gentlemen at London 
for their Coaches." 

Among cattle, the best breeds " for meat " were the long-horned 
cattle of Yorkshire, Derbyshire, Lancashire, and Staffordshire. The 
taU long-legged Lincohis, generally " pide," mth more white than 
any other colour, were reckoned the best for " labour and draught." 
" Those in Somersetshire and Gloucestershire are generally of a 
blood-red colour, in all shapes like unto those in Lincolne-shire, 



138 LATER STEWARTS AND THE REVOLUTION 

and fittest for their uses." So far Markham. Mortimer adds 
other breeds. " A good hardy Sort for fatting on barren or 
middling Sort of Land are your Angleseys and Welch. The hardiest 
are the Scotch.'' The best breed for milking, in his opinion, was 
'' the longlegged short-horn'd Cow of the Dutch breed," chiefly 
found in Lincolnshire and Kent. 

Both Markham and Mortuner have much to say about sheep, which 
were reckoned as the most profitable of hve-stock. Their manifold 
uses inspired Leonard Mascall ^ to rhyme in " praise of sheep " : 

" These cattle (sheep) among the rest, 
Is counted for man one of the best, 
No harmful beast, nor hurt at all ; 
His fleece of wool doth cloath us all. 
Which keeps us all from extream cold ; 
His flesh doth feed both young and old : 
His tallow makes the candles white. 
To bum and serve us day and night : 
His skin doth pleasure divers ways, 
To write, to wear, at all assaies ; 
His guts, thereof we make wheel-strings ; 
They use his bones for other tilings ; 
His horns some shepherds will not lose. 
Because therewith they patch their shooes ; 
His dung is chief, I understand. 
To help and dung the Plowman's land ; 
Therefore the Sheep among the rest, 
He is for man a worthy beast." 

But Mascall makes no attempt to distinguish varieties of breed. 
Like many of the Stewart writers, he would probably have answered 
as the Cumberland shepherd replied to the question — where he 
got his rough-legged, ill-formed sheep — " Lor', sir, they are sik as 
God set upon the land ; we never change any." Markham, how- 
ever, distinguishes the various breeds by the quahty of their wool. 
The finest short wool came from the small black-faced Hereford- 
shire sheep in the neighbourhood of Leominster, and in parts of 
Worcestershire and Shi'opshire. The Cots wold breed was heavier, 
but the wool was longer and straighter in the staple, and the fleece 
coarser. Parts of Warwickshire and Worcestershire, " all Leicester- 
shire, Buckinghamshire, and part of Northamptonshire, and that 
part of Nottinghamshire which is exempt from Sherwood Forest " 
produced " a large-boned Sheep, of the best shape and deepest 

^ Mascall's book on the Government of Cattell, originally pubhshed in 1591, 
was still in circulation nearly a century later, under the title of The Countrey- 
rnan's Jewel. The edition of 1680 is said to be " Gathered at first by Leonard 
Mascal, but much Inlarged by Richard Ruscam, Gent." 



SHEEP AND PIGS 139 

\ 
staple." These were pasture sheep, and their wool was coarse in 

quahty. The Yorkshire breed was " of reasonable bigge bone, but 
of a staple rough and hairie." Welsh sheep were to be " praised 
only in the dish, for they are the sweetest mutton." The Lincoln- 
shire salt marshes bore the largest animals ; but " their legges and 
belhes are long and naked, and their staple is coarser than any 
other." Mortimer practically repeats Markham's hst. But he adds 
one significant remark. Speaking of Lincolns and the coarseness 
of their wool, he says : " they are lately much amended in their 
Breed." Some local pioneer of Bakewell and his Leicesters was 
already attempting the improvement of Lincolns. Both Markham 
and Mortimer condemn horned sheep, and advise buyers to choose 
animals with plenty of bone. Both also repeat the warning of Fitz- 
herbert and Tusser that on open-field farms lambs must be timed to 
fall in January. 

Pigs naturally take a prominent place in the books of " Rustick 
Authors." They are, says Markham, " troublesome, noysome, 
unruly, and great ravenours," yet they are " the Husbandmans 
Best Scavenger, and the Huswifes most wholesome sinke," and, " in 
the dish, so lovely and so wholesome, that all other faults may be 
borne with." Mascall quotes as a proverb the common saying : 
" The hog is never good but when he is in the dish." The natural 
cleanliness of the animal is strongly urged by all the seventeenth 
century writers. As to breed, no Enghsh county could be said to 
have a better sort than any other. But Markham thinks the best 
pigs are raised in Leicestershire, some parts of Northamptonshire, 
and the clay countries bordering on Leicestershire. As to colour, he 
recommends white or '' sanded," or black. But these last are said 
to be rare. Pied pigs he considers to be more subject to measles. 
Both he and Mortimer attribute the superiority of Leicestershire 
and the surrounding districts to the great quantities of beans 
and pulse which were raised in those counties, and Mortimer adds 
that the pigs from those parts of the country were mostly sold in 
London for use at sea^-' 

At the Restoration, the greatest need of Enghsh farming was 
the leadership of practical men, possessed of the leisure, the educa- 
tion, and the capital, to test by experiments the value of a mass 
of theoretical advice, to adopt new crops, introduce new methods, 
improve the Hve-stock of the country. Such pioneers were found, 
at a later date, among the large landowners. In 1660 they were 



140 LATER STEWARTS AND THE REVOLUTION 

not forthcoming from that or from any other class, and this want 
of leadership to a great extent explains the reluctance of farmers 
to put in practice many of the improvements which not only book- 
farmers but practical agriculturists were recommending. The state 
of society was still too unsettled, the title to land too insecure, to 
tempt expenditure. The number of men who could afford the 
necessary outlay was relatively few. Landed property in 1660 was 
distributed m smaller quantities among more numerous owners 
than it was a century later. The events of the Commonwealth 
period had further increased this wide distribution of ownership. 
Large quantities of land, confiscated by the Parhament, had been 
thrown on the market. Many estates had also been forfeited to 
the Goverimient and sold, often in small parcels, because the 
royalist owners either refused or neglected to compound for their 
" deluiquencies." Portions of other properties had been sold by 
their owners to pay the composition or the Decimation Tax. In 
all these cases, numbers of the purchasers were small men. At the 
Restoration, the estates of the Crown and of the Church, and the 
confiscated lands of eminent royaHsts were restored to their original 
owners, without compensation to purchasers who had bought under 
the authority of the Commonwealth Government. But no attempt 
was made to cancel the purchase of lands which had been sold 
under forfeitures to the Parhament, or under the pressure of the 
taxation imposed by the victorious Puritans on the vanquished 
royahsts. All claims of this nature were barred by an Act, which 
disappointed Cavahers condemned as an act of indemnity to the 
King's enemies and of obhvion to his friends. But whether the 
Repubhcans were deprived of their purchases, or confirmed in their 
possession, the example was not lost on their contemporaries. The 
nature of the compromise effected at the Restoration necessarily 
impaired the sense of security. When titles were precarious, 
outlay of capital seemed too speculative a risk. Moreover, many 
of the royahsts who were fortunate enough to retain or regain 
possession of their estates, found themselves too impoverished to 
spend money on their improvement, or too formed in their habits 
to endure the tediousness of directing them. The generations 
which knew the Civil War, the Commonwealth, the Restoration, 
the rebelhon of Monmouth, and the Revolution had passed away, 
before landowners, in widely different circumstances, assumed the 
lead in agricultural progress. 



INCREASED INFLUENCE OF LANDED GENTRY 141 

\ 
Changes were already at work which, within the next half century, 

not only restored the position of the landed gentry, but gave them 
an influence which they had never before possessed. Parliament 
gained control over the Government, and the House of Commons 
over Parliament. At the same time the jurisdiction of magistrates 
was greatly extended. ControUing the House of Commons through 
the county elections, administering local justice, aUied with the 
Church as the bulwark of Protestantism, recruiting from its 
wealthiest members the order of the peerage, absorbing into its 
own ranks their younger sons, the landed gentry became the pre- 
dominant class in the country. Hoav great was the increase in 
their power may be illustrated by the difference in the attitude 
which Elizabethan and Hanoverian Parliaments assumed towards 
enclosures. Many of the seeds of this growth in the political and 
social ascendancy of the landed aristocracy were sown during the 
period under notice. 

One of the first questions which came before the Restoration 
Parliament was that of finance. Some permanent provision had 
to be made for the ordinary charges of Government. A Committee 
was appointed which reported that the average yearly income of 
Charles I. for the period 1637-41 had been £900,000, but that of 
this sum £200,000 were derived from sources no longer available. 
Parhament decided to raise the annual income of the Crown to 
£1,200,000. In providing this sum the fines laid down by the 
Repubfican financiers were in the main followed. The cost of the 
Civil War and the subsequent expenses of the Commonwealth 
Government had been met by the old device of customs duties, and 
by the new expedients of monthly assessments on lands and goods, 
and of excise duties, borrowed from the Dutch financiers, on a 
large range of products which at one time included meat and salt. 
The old feudal dues, exacted by the Crown on all lands held by 
mihtary tenure, had dwindled in importance and value, in spite of 
the attempts made by Henry VIII. and Charles I. to enforce them 
with greater rigour. To a large extent their place had been taken 
by parliamentary grants of subsidies on lands and goods. Those 
which remained in operation were comparatively unproductive ; 
they were besides uneconomical, uncertain, and inconvenient. They 
were also not granted by Parhament, and thus provided the Crown 
with funds which were not under national control. Their abohtion 
had been recommended in the reign of James I. ; it had been 



142 LATER STEWARTS AND THE REVOLUTION 

carried by a resolution of both Houses of Parliament in 1645 ; it 
was one of the terms of the Treaty of Newport in 1648, when Charles 
I. agreed to surrender the dues for the payment of £100,000 a year ; 
it had been demanded by Puritan agriculturists Hke HartUb and 
Blith ; finally, in 1656 the abolition had been passed into law with 
the consent of Cromwell. Technically speaking, the legislation of 
the Commonwealth was annulled by the Restoration ; practically, 
however, the question was not whether the abolished dues should 
be continued, but whether they should be revived. Against this 
revival it was argued in 1660 that much land had changed hands 
in the previous fifteen years without any provision for the possible 
revival of the hability. The income voted for Charles II. had to 
be provided, the problem of ways and means to be solved. The 
Restoration Parhament might have abandoned the excise duty, or 
revived the feudal dues, or substituted for them a land tax. They 
retained the excise introduced by Republican financiers, but reduced 
it by a half ; they confirmed Cromwell's aboHtion of the emolu- 
ments which the Crown had derived from lands held in chivalry ; ^ 
they declined by a majority of two votes to impose a land tax. At 
the same time the Crown surrendered its oppressive prerogatives 
of purveyance and pre-emption. No doubt the immediate result 
of these fiscal changes was that the landed aristocracy continued 
to be reheved from a burden, and that, from motives of seH-interest, 
they refused to revive, either in its original or in a substituted form, 
a system of taxation which, before the Commonwealth, had once 
attached to land held in chivalry. 

The aboHtion of military tenures reduced to some extent the 
necessary outgoings of many of the landed gentry. At the same 
time the commercial poHcy adopted by the Restoration Government 
maintained, if it did not swell, their incomes. The steady rise in 
the price of wool during the past century had begun to hamper the 
clothing trade. In order to lower prices for home manufacturers, 
an Act passed in 1647, and re-enacted in 1660, prohibited its 
exportation. Still further to stimulate the clothing industry, a 
series of Acts,^ from 1666 onwards, ordered the burial of the dead 
in woollen fabrics. Partly for revenue, partly in compensation for 
these concessions to manufacturing industries, partly to meet the 
claims of impoverished adherents, partly to maintain the balance 
between pasture and tillage, partly, no doubt, to make England 
1 12 Car. II. c. 24. * ig and 19 Car. II. c. 4. 



REGULATION OF THE CORN TRADE 143 

\ 
self-supporting in its food supplies, important changes were made 

in the laws which regulated the trade in corn.^ In the reign of 
Philip and Mary, home-grown corn could not be exported if home- 
prices for M'heat rose above 6s. 8d. per quarter, and for cheaper 
grains in proportion. This Hmit was raised by subsequent legisla- 
tion. Thus the home price for wheat, at which exportation was 
prohibited, was raised in 1593 to 20s., in 1604 to 26s. 8d., in 1623 
to 32s., in 1660 to 40s.,2 in 1663 to 48s.3 In 1660 duties were also 
imposed on the importation of foreign wheat. These duties were 
at first nominal. Thus they started at 2s. per quarter on imported 
wheat, when home-prices exceeded 44s. In 1663 they were raised 
to 5s. 4d. per quarter, when home-grown wheat rose above 48s. 
In 1670 ^ the corn laws became more frankly protective. No Hmit 
of price was fixed above which the exportation of home-grown corn 
was prohibited, and a heavy duty of 16s. a quarter was imposed 
on foreign wheat when home prices did not exceed 53s. 4d. per 
quarter. Similar duties were imposed on the importation of other 
foreign grain at proportionate prices. A further change was made 
in 1688.^ The Act of that year offered a bounty on the export 
of home-gro^vn corn of 5s. per quarter of wheat, whenever the 
home-price fell below 48s. per quarter, and on other grain in pro- 
portion. On these two principles, namely a duty on the importation 
of foreign corn and a bounty on the exportation of home-grown 
corn, combined with frequent prohibitions of exports, the corn 
trade was regulated throughout the eighteenth century. Similar 
measures were adopted to encourage the raising of cattle, and 
importations from Ireland were prohibited. Legislation did not, 
however, raise prices ; it only succeeded in maintaining them. 
Increased production at home counteracted the effect which the 
restriction of imports might otherwise have produced. England, 
says Sir WilHam Petty,^ " doeth so abound in Victuals as 
that it maketh Laws against the Importation of Cattle, Flesh 
and Fish from abroad ; and that the draining of Fens, im- 
proving of Forests, inclosing of Commons, Solving of St. Foyne 
and Clover-grass be grumbled against by Landlords, as the 
Way to depress the price of Victuals." Elsewhere he adds : 

1 See Appendix III. The Corn Laws. ^ 12 Car. II. c. 4. 

' 15 Car. II. c. 7. * 22 Car. II. c. 13. 

5 1 William and Mary, c. 12. 
^Several Essays in Political Arithmetic, ed. 1755, pp. 150-169. 



144 LATER STEWARTS AND THE REVOLUTION 

*' it is manifest that the land in its present Condition is able to 
bear more Provision and Commodities, than it was forty years 
ago." 

Throughout the period from the Restoration to the Revolution, 
except for one disastrous year of plague, fire, and war, the country 
prospered. The receipts from customs steadily advanced. Trade 
was expanding. As Amsterdam decayed, and Portuguese and 
Spanish Jews fled to England to escape the Inquisition, money 
flowed into the country. Other rehgious refugees brought with 
them useful arts and manufactures. The development of banking 
stimulated commercial undertakings. Between 1661 and 1687 the 
receipts from the customs duties more than doubled. Fortunes, 
made in the city were often invested in land, which now was begin- 
ning to confer on its possessors a new political and social influence. 
The landed gentry shared in the growing prosperity, either through 
its general effects on the country, or by wealthy marriages, or by 
sending their sons — as Rashleigh Osbaldistone Avas sent by Sir 
Hfldebrand — into business. Between 1675 and 1700, said Sir 
Wilham Temple " the first noble families married into the City." ^ 
Latimer had preached against landlords becoming " graziers," and 
aldermen turning " colliers," and disquietude at this commercial 
tendency had influenced the legislation of Edward VI. But times 
had changed. Though Heralds still distinguished between " foreign 
Merchants " and retail shopkeepers, on the ground apparently that 
" Navigation was the only laudable part of all bu3ring and selling," 
yet they 2 had solemnly decided that " if a Gentleman be bound 
an Apprentice to a Merchant, or other Trade, he hath not thereby 
lost his Degree of Gentility." 

Closely united with the nobiHty, the Church, and the merchant 
princes, sharing in the general prosperity, and, in virtue of their 
property, exercising new political and social powers, the landed 
gentry were beginning to acquire that predominant influence which 
was so marked a feature in the eighteenth century. The change 
necessarily added an artificial value to the ownership of land : it 
not orfly arrested the tendency towards its wider distribution, but 
encouraged its accumulation in fewer hands. Once acquired, 
estates were held together by the introduction of family settle- 

^ Quoted by Tojoibee, Industrial Revolution, ed. 1887, p. 63. 

^ Logan's Treatise of Honor at the end of Gwillim's Display of Heraldry 
(ed. 1679), p. 155. 



AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS IN 1696 145 

\ 
ments. On the eve of this change, it may be of interest to 
note a contemporary estimate of the agricultural population 
and wealth of the country at the close of the eighteenth cen- 
tury. 

Gregory King, whose training and experience specially qualified 
him for the task, drew up a statistical account of the " State and 
Condition " of England and Wales in 1696. His estimates of the 
actual numbers of the population are the result of an investigation 
by a competent and careful observer, who made the fullest use of 
the information suppHed by such figures as those contained in the 
Hearth-office, the assessments on Births, Marriages, and Burials, 
the Parish Registers, and PubHc Accounts. The substantial 
accuracy of this part of his work has stood the test of subsequent 
criticism, in spite of his prophecy that in 1900 the population 
would have risen to 7,350,000. For the rest of his estimates he 
mainly depended on guess-work. Confidence is scarcely created by 
his laborious calculation of the numbers of hares, rabbits, and 
wild fowl in the country. King's figures were largely used by 
Davenant,^ but his actual manuscript remained impublished till 
1801.2 

King estimated the total acreage of England and Wales at 39 
milhon ^ acres ; of which 11 million acres were arable, averaging 
a yearly rent per acre of os. lOd. ; and 10 milhon were meadow or 
pasture, averaging 9s. an acre. Of the 11 million arable acres, ten 
milhon were under the plough for corn, pease, beans, and vetches ; 
one milHon acres were allotted to flax, hemp, saffron, woad and 
other dyeing weeds, etc. He goes on to calculate the hve-stock of 
the country thus : " horses (and asses)," 600,000 ; cattle, 4| miUion ; 
sheep, 11 miUion ; pigs, 2 million. The total population in 1696 
is estimated at 5,500,000 persons, distributed into 1,400,000 urban, 
and 4,100,000 rural, inhabitants. The total yearly income of the 
nation m 1688 is calculated at £43,500,000. Of this total, con- 

^ An Essay upon the Probable Methods of making a People Gainers in 
the Ballance of Trade, by Charles Davenant, 1698 (Section I. " Of the 
People of England," and Section II. " Of the Land of England and its 
Product "). 

^ Pubhshed in An Estimate of the Comparative Strength of Great Britain, by 
George Chalmers (1802), under the title of "Natural and Political Observa- 
tions and Conclusions upon the State and Condition of England, 1696 ; by 
Gregory King, Esq., Lancaster Herald." 

* The actual figure is 37,319,221 acres. 

K 



Average 
early Income, 


£84 








50 








44 








15 








6 


10 


02 



146 LATER STEWARTS AND THE REVOLUTION 

siderably more than half (£24,480,000) belonged to the following 
families : 



40,000 Freeholders ^ of the better sort 
140,000 Freeholders of the lesser sort - 
150,000 Farmers ----- 
364,000 Labouring People and Out-servants 
400,000 Cottagers and Paupers 

King's estimates bring into strong relief the vast revolution 
which the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries produced in the dis- 
tribution of population and of wealth. The same point is illustrated 
from a different point of view by a comparison of the wealth of the 
different counties in 1696 and at the present day. Material for 
such a comparison is found in the frequent assessments which were 
made of the counties during the seventeenth century for various 
fiscal purposes. The central counties are the richest ; then follow 
in order of wealth the south, the east, the west. Poorest of all is 
the north. Throughout the whole period, Middlesex is the richest 
and Cumberland the poorest county. The most conspicuous change 
was that of Surrey, \\'hich rose from the eighteenth place in 1636 to 
the second in 1693. Excluding Middlesex, and excepting Surrey, 
the wealthiest district throughout the whole period was formed by 
a block of six agricultural counties north of the Thames — namely 
Hertfordshire, Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Oxford- 
shire, and Northamptonshire. Their position illustrates the im- 
portance of London as a market for agricultural produce. Already 
its rapid growth was exciting alarm, lest " the Head " should become 
" too big for the Body." According to Gregory King, its popula- 
tion was 530,000 souls out of an urban population of 1,400,000, and 
a total population, urban and rural, of 5| milHons. Throughout 
the whole period, again, the seven poorest counties, though their 
order in the list varies, were Cheshire, Derbyshire, Yorkshire, 
Lancashire, Northumberland, Durham, and Cumberland. The 
assessment of the whole district north of the Humber, comprising 
one-fifth of the total area of England, A^as not greater than that of 

^ It should be noted that freeholders included not only owners and occupy- 
ing owners, but tenants for life and lives, as well as copyholders. 

* For tables of estimates drawn up by King and Davenant, see Appendix 
IV. 



POVERTY OF THE NORTH OF ENGLAND 147 

\ 

Wiltshire. In the latter half of the following century not only- 
wealth but population migrated northwards, and the inhabitants 
of rural districts began to flow into the centres of trade and manu- 
facture which crowded round the coal and iron fields and water- 
power of the northern counties. 



CHAPTER VII. 
JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND. 1700-1760. 

Agricultural progress in the eighteenth century ; enclosures necessary to 
advance ; advocates and opponents of the enclosing movement ; area 
of uncultivated land and of land cultivated in open-fields ; defects of the 
open-field system as a method of farming ; pasture commons as adjuncts 
to open-field holdings ; the necessary lead in agricultural progress given 
by large landowners and large farmers ; procediu"e in enclosures by Act 
of Parliament : varying dates at which districts have been enclosed : 
influence of soil and climate in breaking up or maintaining the open-field 
system : the East Midland and North Eastern group of counties : improved 
methods and increased resources of farming ; Jethro Tull the " greatest 
individual improver " ; Lord Townshend's infiuence on Norfolk husbandry. 

The gigantic advance of agriculture in the nineteenth century 
dwarfs into insignificance any previous rate of progress. Yet the 
change between 1700 and 1800 was astonishing. England not only 
produced food for a population that had doubled itself, as well as 
grain for treble the number of horses, but during the first part of 
the period became, as M. de Lavergne has said, the gr anary of 
Europe. Population before 1760 grew so slowly that the soil, 
witEout any great increase in farming skill or in cultivated area, 
produced a surplus. Under the spur of the bounty, land which had 
been converted to pasture was again ploughed for corn, and proved 
by its jdeld that it had profited by the prolonged rest. The price 
of wheat, between the years 1713 and 1764, in spite of large exports, 
averaged 34s. lid. per quarter ; poor-rates fell below the level of 
the preceding century ; real wages were higher than they had been 
since the reign of Henry VI. In England, at least, there was little 
civil war or tumult, no glut of the labour market, no sudden growth 
of an artisan class. The standard of hving improved. Instead of 
the salted carcases of half -starved and aged oxen, fresh meat began 
to be eaten by the peasantry. Wheaten bread ceased to be a luxury 
of the wealthy, and, at the accession of George III. had become the 



THE PEASANTS' GOLDEN AGE 149 

\ 

bread-stuff of half the population. Politically and morally, the 
period was corrupt and coarse ; materially, it was one of the Golden 
Ages of the peasant. The only drawbacks to the general prosperity 
of agriculture during the first half of the century were the visita- 
tions of the rot, and of the cattle plague. ElHs ^ speaks of the rot 
in 1735 as " the most general one that has happened in the memory 
of man . . . the dead bodies of rotten sheep were so numerous in 
roads, lanes, and fields, that their carrion stench and smell proved 
extremely offensive to the neighbouring parts and the passant 
travellers." A newer and more mysterious scourge was the cattle 
plague. Starting in Bohemia, it travelled westward, devastated 
the north of France, and three times visited England. The only 
remedy was to slaughter infected animals ; in a single year the 
Government, paying one-third of the value, expended £135,000 in 
compensation. 

The great changes which Enghsh agriculture witnessed as the 
eighteenth century advanced, and particularly after the accession 
of George III. (1760), are, broadly speaking, identified with J ethro 
TuU, Lord TowTishend, Bakewell of Dishley, Arthur Young, and 
Coke of Norfolk. With their names are associated the chief 
characteristics in the fa rming progress of_th e per iod, which may be 
summed up in the adoption of improved methods of cultivation, 
the introduction of new crops, the reduction of stock-breeding to 
a science, the^'provisiohoT increased facilities of communication and 
of transport, and the enterprise and outlay of capitahst landlords 
and Tenant-farmers. The improveaients which these pioneers 
initiated ,^tau^t, or exemphfied, enabled England to mee^the 
strain of the Napoleonic wars, to bear the burden of additional | 
taxation, and to feed the vast centres of commercial industry which ' 
sprang up, as if by magic, at a time when food supphes could not 
have been provided from another country. Without the substitu- 
tion of separate occupation for the ancient system of common cul- 
tivation, this agricultural progress was impossible. But in carrying 
out the necessary changes, rural society was convulsed, and its 
general conditions revolutionised. The divorce of the peasantry 
from the soil, and the e^inction of commoners, open-field farmers, 
and eventually^ small freeholders, were the heavy price which the 
nation_ultimately paidfor the supply of bread and meat tOL_its 
maimfacUiringpopulation . 

^ Shepherd'' 8 Sure Guide, 1749. 



150 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

Neither the reclamation of wastes, nor the break-up of open- 
field farms, nor the appropriation of commons, were novelties. For 
the last three centuries the three processes, which are generally 
spoken of as enclosures, had all been proceeding at varying rates of 
progress. But in the period from 1760 to 1815 each received an 
immense impetus, partly from the rise in the price of corn, partly 
from the consequent increase in rental values, partly from the 
pressure of a growing population, partly from the improved standard 
of agriculture. The hterary struggle in advocacy or condemnation 
of enclosures still continued. But the advocates were gaining the 
upper hand. In the first half of the eighteenth century, there are 
at least two notable contributions to the hterature of the subject 
by champions of enclosures, and only one of any importance by an 
opponent. 

By the new wTiters, the unprofitable nature of the use of land 
under common tillage or common pasture is insisted upon. Thus 
Timothy Nourse, Gent., in his Campania Foelix ; or Discourse of 
the Benefits and Improvements of Husbandry (1700), vigorously attacks 
commons as " Seminaries of a lazy Thieving sort of People." In his 
opinion their hve-stock were as unprofitable to the community as 
the commoners themselves. Their sheep are described as " poor, 
tatter'd, and poyson'd with the Rot," their cattle " as starv'd, Tod- 
belhed Runts, neither fit for the Dairy nor the Yoke." So, also, 
an anonymous author in a short and pithy tract, An Old Almanack 
{with some considerations for improving commons) printed in 1710. 
With a Postscript (1734-5), suggests that, if the lando\Mier and two- 
thirds, in number and value, of those interested in an open-field 
farm and common agreed to an enclosure, their consent should 
override the opposition of the minority. " Will the Commoners 
complain," he asks, " for want of their Commonage ? This they can't 
do, for few of them have any Cattle, and whether they have or not, 
there is Recompence out of the Inclosures ^vdll more than treble 
their Loss ? Will the Incumbents complain ? What ! for converting 
the dry Commons into Corn, and the Fenns into Hemp and Flax. 
Will the Ingrossers of Commons complain, who eat up their oum Share 
and others too ? This they dare not. But won't those honest Men 
complain who ru/w live upon the Thefts of Common ? And not ^wdth the 
least Reason, but then there vnUl be Work for them." But the two 
important advocates of enclosures were the brothers John and 
Edward Laurence. In A New System of Agriculture (1726) a note 



JOHN AND EDWARD LAURENCE 151 

\ 
is struck which sounded more loudly as towns grew, as, with their 

growth, the demand increased for meat, milk, and butter, as agri- 
culture improved, as communication was facilitated. The author, 
the Rev. John Laurence, Rector of Bishops Wearmouth, treats 
oijen^^field farms as obstacles to agricultural progress. He insists 
on enclosures and separate occupation as the best means of increas- 
ing produce and of raising rents. He dAvells on the rapid progress 
which enclosures were then making, points out the great rise in 
rental value consequent on increased produce, and argues that so 
far from injuring the poor, enclosures will rather create a new demand 
for labour by the introduction of improved tillage and pasture- 
farming, will give employmentlri fencing and ditching, and remove 
the attractions of^wastes and open spaces, which '' draw to them 
the poor and necessitous only for the advantage of pilfering and 
stealing." In The Duty of a Steward to Us Lord (1727) Edward 
Laurence, himself a land-surveyor, and apparently agent to the 
Duke of Buckingham, argues the case from the point of view of 
better and more economical management. A new skilled pro- 
fession was growing up. It is prophetic of future changes that 
Laurence points out the evils of employing " country- Attorneys 
(not skilled in Husbandry) " in the management of landed property, 
and argues that the gentry should allow handsome salaries to their 
stewards, who could, if inadequately paid, adopt other means of 
enriching themselves. A champion of " engrossing," he insists on 
the advantage^ of consolidating small holdings in largerjarms. He 
ur ges stew ards to proyent piecenieaL_enclo^ures by individuals, to 
substitute Jaaseh olds for co pyholds, to buy -up any freeholds on the 
estate which he in intermixed strips, as necessary preliminaries to 
Any successful and general scheme for the enclosure of open-fields 
and commons. The other side to the picture is vigorously painted 
by John Cowper in his Essay proving that Inclosing Commons and 
Common-Fieid^ands is Contrary to the Interest of the Nation (1732). 
He answers the arguments of the two Laurences, arguing that 
enclosures necessarily injure the small freeholder and the_jDoor, and 
pleading thatrso"far from encouraging labour, they_depopulatejbhe 
vil lages in w hich they have been carried out. Speaking of the 
small freeholder, he says that " none are more industrious, none 
toil and labour so hard. ... I myself have seen within these 30 
years, above 20 Lordships or parishes enclosed, and everyone 
of them has thereby been in a manner depopulated. If 



152 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

any one can shew me where an Inclosure has been made, and 
not at least half the inhabitants gone, I will throw up the 
argument." 

In the passages quoted from these five books are outlined some 
of the principal points in the dispute which was fought out in the 
next eighty years. On the one side are pleaded the pernicious 
effects of^«)mrQ.ons_on the inhabitants of the neighbourhjQod and 
their live-stock ; the absence of any legal_title^ to many_ of the 
rights claimed over pasture commons, and their frequent abjise by 
commoners ; the ob stacles to farming improvement which^ere pre- 
sented by open arable fields ; the unprofitable use of land occupied 
in common ; the commercial and productive advantages of enlarged, 
separate holdings. On the other side is urged the injury which the 
break-up of open-field farms and the partition of commons inflicted 
on small owners and occupiera of land. Much was to be said from 
both points of view. Many sweeping assertions were made, both 
by advocates and opponents, which were true of one district but 
untrue of another. Both socially and economically, the reclama- 
tion of wastes, the extinction of open-field farms,_the appropriation 
of commons, might be justified by the urgent necessity of developing 
the productiveness of the soil, and of increasing to the fullest extent 
the food resources of the country. In favour of the first two 
changes, most agricultural ^Titers are agreed ; in deahng with the 
commons, it is at least doubtful whether the best possible course 
was always adopted. 

Froin the productive point of view, the amount of waste land 
was fl. stflTi ding reproach t o agriculture. The disappearance of the 
w-ild boar and the wolf in the reign of Charles II. suggests some 
diminution of the area in which those animals had harboured. But 
in 1696 Gregory King had estimated the heaths, moors, mountains, 
and barren lands of England and Wales at ten milhon acres, or 
more than a quarter of the total area. In all probabiHty, the 
estimate is wholly inadequate. But, assuming the calculation to 
be approximately correct, it affords some measure of comparison 
with conditions at the close of the eighteenth century. In 1795 
the Board of Agriculture ^ stated that over 22 milHon acres in Great 
Britain were uncultivated, of which 7,888,977 acres were in England 
and Wales. Here too there is probably a gross under-estimate. 

^Re/port of the Committee of the Board of Agriculture (1795). The total 
ficreages are over-estimated. 



WASTE LANDS IN ENGLAND 153 

\ 

Arthur Young,i twenty years before (1773), had called attention to 
the extent of land lying waste in Great Britain. " There are," he 
says, " at least 600,000 acres waste in the single county of Northum- 
berland. In those of Cumberland and Westmoreland, there are 
as many more. In the north and part of the West Riding of York- 
shire, and the contiguous ones of Lancashire, and in the west part 
of Durham, are yet greater tracts ; you may draw a line from the 
north point of Derbyshire to the extremity of Northumberland, of 
150 miles as the crow flies, which shall be entirely across waste 
lands : the exception of smaU cultivated spots very trifling,'' It 
was across this district that Jeanie Deans travelled in the days of 
George II., when great districts of Northumberland were covered 
with forests of broom, thick and taU enough to hide a Scottish army, 
Lancashire in 1794 still had 108,500 acres of waste, and Rossendale 
remained a chace. As late as 1794, three-quarters of Westmoreland, 
according to Bishop Watson, lay uncultivated. In 1734 the forest 
of Knaresborough had surrounded Harrogate so thickly that " he 
was thought a cunning fellow that could readily find out those 
Spaws." Even m the last decade of the eighteenth century, 
265,000 acres of Yorkshire were Ijdng waste, yet largely capable 
of cultivation. Up to the accession of George III., that part of the 
East Riding which was called the Carrs, from BridHngton Quay to 
Spurn Point, and inland as far as Driffield, was an extensive swamp 
producing fittle but the ague ; wallow trees marked out the road 
from Hull to Beverley, and the bells rang at dusk from the tower 
of Barton-upon-Humber to guide belated travellers. Great tracts 
of Derbyshire were " black regions of hng." From Sleaford to 
Brigg, " all that the devil o'erlooks from Lincoln Tot;vti," was a 
desolate waste, over which wayfarers were directed by the land 
lighthouse of Dunstan pillar. No fences were to be seen for miles — 
only the furze-capped sand-banks which enclosed the warrens^ 
The high ground from Spilsby to Caistor was similarly a bleak 
unproductive heath. Robin Hood and Little John might stiU 
have sheltered in Sherwood Forest, which occupied a great part of 
Nottinghamshire. The fen districts of the counties of Cambridge, 
Huntingdon, Lincoln, and Northampton continued to defy the 
assaults of drainage. Even in the neighbourhood of London similar 

1 Observations on the Present State of Waste Lands of Great Britain, 1773, 
Young's calculations are also based on an exaggerated estimate of the acreage 
of England and Wales, 



154 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

conditions prevailed. Nathaniel Kent, writing in 1775 {Hints to 
Gentlemen of Landed Property), says " that within thirty miles of 
the capital, there is not less than 200,000 acres of waste land." As 
late as 1793, Hounslow Heath and Finchley Common were described 
as wastes, fitted only for " Cherokees and savages." In 1791, the 
Weald of Surrey still bore evidence of its desolation in the posts 
which stood across it as " guides to letter-carriers." In Essex, 
Epping and Hainault Forests were in 1794 " known to be a resort 
of the most idle and profligate of men ; here the undergraduates in 
iniquity commence their career with deer stealing, and here the 
more finished and hardened robber retires from justice." Counties 
more remote from London had a still larger area of wastes. When 
Young made his Farmer's Tours in the first decade of the reign 
of George III., Sedgmoor was still one vast fen, the Mendip Hills 
were uncultivated, and eighteen thousand acres on the Quantock 
Hills lay desolate. Over Devonshire, Cornwall, and the whole of 
Wales, stretched, in 1773, " immense " tracts of wastes. To bring 
some of these wastes into cultivation was part of the work which 
agriculturists undertook in the eighteenth century, and if the 
estimates of Gregory King (1696) and of the Board of Agriculture 
(1793) are approximately correct, upwards of two miUion acres 
were added to the cultivated area before the close of the period. 

It is possible that in_1700 at least half the arable land of the 
country was still cultivated on the ope n-field syst em — that is, in 
village farms by associations of agricultural partners who occupied 
intermixed strips, and cultivated the whole area under common 
rules of cropping. Out of 8,500 parishes, which in round numbers 
existed at the Reformation, 4,500 seem to have been still laid out, 
in whole or in part, on this ancient method. John Laurence in 
1726 had calculated that a third of the cultivated area " is what 
we caU Common Fields." The agricultural defects of the open- 
field system were obvious and numerous. So long as farming had 
been unprogressive, and population had remained stationary, the 
economic loss was comparatively unimportant. When improved 
methods and increased resources were commanded by farmers, and 
when the demand for food threatened to outstrip^he supp ly, the 
need for change became irnperative. Under the primitive system, 
the area under, thp; pj rmgh^ was excessive, and much land, which 
might have been more profitably employed as pasture, was tilled 
for corn. A quantit y of the a r able^ land was wasted in innumerable 



SOME DEFECTS OF OPEN-FIELD FARMS 155 

^alks and footpaths. All the occupiers were bound by rigid cus- 
tomary rules, compelled to treat all kinds of soil alike, obliged to 
keep exacFtime with one another in sowing and reaping their crops. 
F reeholders on open -field farms .were only half -owners. No winter 
crops^ could be grown so long as the arable field.s were subjected to 
common rights of pasture from August to February. It meant 
financial ruin, if any member of the community grew turnips, clover, 
or artificial grasses for the benefit of his neighbours. The strips of 
l and o ccupied by each partner were too narrow to admit of cross- 
ploughing OTcross-harrowing, and on heavy land this was a serious 
drawback. Drainage was practically impossible, for, if one man 
drained or water-furrowed his land, or scoured his courses, his 
neighbour might block his outfalls. It was to carry off the water 
that the arable land Avas heaped up into high ridges between two 
furrows. But the remedy was almost as bad as the disease. The 
richness of the soil was washed off the summit of the ridge into 
the trenches, which often, as Kent ^ records, contained water three 
yards wide, dammed back at either end by the high-ridged head- 
lands. The cultivated fields were generally foul, if not from the 
fault of the occupier, from the slovenhness of his neighbours ; the 
turf-balks harboured twitch ; the triennial fallows left their heritage 
of crops of docks and thistles. The unsheltered^ hedgeless open- 
fields^ were often hurtfuljto hye.-stock, though the absence of hedges 
was not without its advantages to the corn. The farm-buildings 
were gathered together in th^ village, often a mile or more from 
the land. As each man's strips lay scattered over each of the open- 
fields, he w asted his day in visiti ng the_.different pai;cels of his 
holding, and his expenses of manuring, reaping, carting, and horse- 
keeping were enormously increased by the remoteness of the different 
parts of his occupation. Vexatious rights interfered Avith proper 
c ultivat ion. One man might have the right to turn his plough on 
another's strip, and the victim must either wait his neighbour's 
pleasure or risk the damage to his sown crops. " Travellers," as 
Joseph Lee ^ remarked in 1656, " know no highwaies in the common 
fields " ; each avoided his predecessor's ruts, and cattle trespassed 
as they passed. For twenty yards on either side of the track the 
growing corn was often spoiled. The sheep were driven to the 
commons by day, and in the summer folded at night on the fallows. 

^ Hints to Oentlemen of Landed Property, by Nathaniel Kent, 1775. 
* Vindication of a Regulated Enclosure, p. 24. 



156 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

Otherwise the manure of the hve-stock was wasted over the wide 
area, which the animals traversed to find their scanty food. Unable 
to provide winter keep, and fettered by the common rights of 
pasture which each of the partners enjoyed over the whole of the 
arable land, farmers reared lambs and calves under every dis- 
advantage. During the summer months, when the horses and 
cattle were tethered on the unsheltered balks, they lost flesh and 
pined in the heat. lU-fed all the year round, and half-starved in 
the winter, the Hve-stock dwindled in size. The promiscuous 
herding of sheep and cattle generated every sort of disorder. The 
common pasture was pimpled with mole-heaps and ant-hills, and, 
from want of drainage, pitted with wet patches where nothing 
grew but rushes. The scab was rarely absent from the crowded 
common-fold, or the rot from the ill-drained plough-land and 
pasture. No individual owner could attempt to improve his flock 
or his herd, when aU the cattle and sheep of the village grazed 
together on the same commons. 

The npp.n-jfiplH system was proverbially the s ource of q uarrels. 
Litigatio n was incessan t. It was easy for men to plough up a 
portion of the common balks or headlands, to shift their neighbour's 
landmarks, or poach their land, by a turn of the plough, or filch 
their crops when reaping. Robert Mannyng in his Handlyng Synne 
(1303) had condemned the " fals husbandys " that " ere aweye 
falsly mennys landys," and William Langland in Piers Ploivman 
(1369) had denounced the ploughman who " pynched on " the 
adjoining half -acre, and the reapers who reaped their neighbour's 
ground. Tusser repeats the comj^laint of the mediaeval morahsts 
against the ' champion ' or open-field farmer : — 

" The Champion robbeth by night, 

And prowleth and filcheth by day : 

Himself and his beasts out of sight, 
Both spoileth and maketh away 

Not only thy grass but thy corn, 
Both after and e'er it be shorn." 

Gascoigne in The Steel Glasse (1576) condemns the open-field farmer 

who 

"... set debate between their lords 

By earing up the balks that part their bounds." 

Joseph Lee repeats the charge. " It is," he says, " a practice too 
common in the common fields, where men make nothing to pull up 
their neighbour's landmark, to plow up their land and mow their 



THE PASTURE COMMONS 157 

grasse that lyeth next to them." For open-field farmers the curse 
in the Commination Service had a real meaning. Edward Lau- 
rence ^ (1727) dwells on the temptations to dishonesty which the 
unfenced lands and precarious boundaries of open-fields offered 
to the needy, and the same point is repeatedly insisted upon by the 
Reporters to the Board of Agriculture at the end of the eighteenth 
century. Hence it was that open-field farmers agreed among 
themselves as httle as " wasp doth with bee." Hence also came 
the numerous law-suits. " How many brawling contentions," says 
Lee, " are brought before the Judges every Assizes by the in- 
habitants of the common fields." 

Speaking generally, enclos ure meant t he _aimultaneous processes 
of consohdating^ the intermixed strips-«f open-field iarma^Iancl of 
dividing the commons_attached to them as adjuncts of the arable 
holdings. But this was not universally the case. Sometimes the 
arable farm had been enclosed, and only the pasture common 
remained to be divided. Sometimes the reverse was the case ; 
the common had gone, and only the arable land remained to be 
enclosed. Sometimes land, previously enclosed by agreement or 
piecemeal by individuals, was re-enclosed under a general scheme, 
probably for purposes of redistribution. Sometimes the acreage 
mentioned in Inclosure Acts, as tested by the awards, is exaggerated, 
more rarely under-estimated. All these differences make accurate 
calculations of the actual area affected by the appropriation of 
pasture-commons and the extinction of open-field farms extremely 
di£ficult, if not impossible. Now that the commons as adjuncts 
of arable farming have greatly contracted in area, their comparative 
disappearance is deplored on both economic and social grounds, 
in accordance with ideas which are of recent growth. It might 
have been possible to regulate their use to greater profit, or to pre- 
serve them as open spaces for recreation and as the lungs of large 
towns, or to divide them on methods which recognised more fully 
the minor rights claimed by small commoners, and would thus 
have benefited a larger section of the community. But so long as 
the herbage of the commons, both in legal theory and historical 
origin, formed an essential part of the arable farm, and was subject 
to rights claimed against all the world by the privileged occupiers 
of the tillage land, there were practical difficulties in the way of 
each of these possible courses. Agriculturists scarcely looked 

^ Duty of a Steward to his Lord. 



158 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

beyond the undrained and impoverished condition of the pastures ; 
lawyers held that rights of common, claimed apart from the tenure 
of arable land or ancient cottages, were in the nature of encroach- 
ments or trespass ; economists condemned their occupation in 
common as a wasteful and unprofitable use of the land ; social 
reformers pointed to the attractions which commons possessed for 
idlers, and deplored their influence on morals and industry. All 
these classes may have been, consciously or unconsciously, self- 
interested. There were few, certainly, who realised the full con- 
sequences of enclosures, or appreciated the strength of the impulse 
which the enclosing movement would give to capitahst farming, 
and the immediate success of the agricultural change removed the 
hesitation even of the most far-seeing. 

Custom in the course of centuries had dealt hardly with the 
commons. Many of them were unstinted, and were consequently 
overcharged with stock, which often belonged to jobbers and not 
to the commoners. Even in good seasons, there was barely enough 
grass to keep the cattle and sheep alive. In bad seasons, when 
the weather was cold or wet, and the grass late and scanty, many 
died from want of food. In other cases, while the main body of 
commoners were restricted in the number of their stock, one or 
more commoners, not always lords of adjacent manors, were 
restrained by no Hmit, and not onty turned out as many of their 
own sheep and cattle as they could, but also took in those of 
strangers. The p oorer the common er, the less wa sjbhe benefit he 
de rived . If the commons were stinted, every commoner, who 
occupied other pasture land in severalty, saved his own grass till 
the last moment by keeping his sheep and cattle on the common, 
and the small man, who had no other refuge for his live-stock, was 
the sufferer. Where the commons, again, were stinted, the richer 
men frequently turned out more than the custom allowed, and the 
smaller commoners had lost the protection of the old Courts Baron, 
where the offenders, before the decay of those tribunals, would have 
been " presented." Monied men turned stock-jobbers or dealers, 
hired land at double rents on the edge of the commons, and so 
obtained grazing rights which they exercised by overstocking the 
land with their own sheep and cattle or by agisting the Hve-stock 
of strangers. It was thus that, in 1793, " an immense number of 
greyhound-hke sheep, pitiful haK-starved-looking animals, subject 
to rot," crowded Hounslow Heath, and that in 1804 the common 



COMMONS AND COTTAGERS 159 

of Cheshunt was grazed not by the poor but by a parcel of jobbers. 
The po verty of the pasture was often proved by the condition of 
the stock. " It is painful to observe the very wretched appearance 
of the animals," Avrites an anonymous author in The Farmer's 
Magazine for May, 1802, " who have no other dependence but upon 
the pasture of these commons, and who, in most instances bear a 
greater resemblance to Hving skeletons than anything else." " The 
stock," he continues, " turned out yearly into these commons con- 
sists of a motley mixture of aU the different breeds of sheep and 
cattle at present known in the island ; many of which are diseased, 
deformed, small, and in every respect unworthy of being bred from." 
In theory, the commons enabled the cottagers, who occupied at 
higher rents the ancient cottages which legally conferred the rights, 
to supplement their wages by keeping a cow or two. But the 
theory did not ah^ays agree with the practice. Often, if the 
cottager had money enough to buy a cow, the cow could barely 
find a living on land already overrun with sheep. The cottager's 
profits from the commons mainly consisted in the use or sale of 
turf, gorse, and brushwood which he cut for fuel, the run for a few 
geese and a " ragged shabby horse " or pony. In theory, again, 
the value of the commons to a small farmer, whose holding, whether 
freehold, copyhold, or leasehold, was mainly arable, was inestimable 
— provided that he was near enough to make good use of the grass- 
land. But, in fact, the value was often minimised by distance, by 
the wretched condition of the undrained and over-stocked pasture, 
and by the risk of infection to the five-stock. There can be no 
question that, from an agricultural point of view, five acres of 
pasture, added in individual occupation to the arable holding of 
a small occupier, and placed near the rest of his land, would have 
been a greater boon than pasture rights over 250 acres of common. 
Some of the practical evils of open-fields and their attendant 
pasture-commons might have been, with time, skill, and patience, 
mitigated. In some districts the village farms were better managed 
than in others. But even if the pressure of increasing population 
and the difficulties of a great war had not necessitated immediate 
action, the inherent defects of the system could not be cured. The 
general description which has been given of open-field farming 
appfies to every part of the country. Scotland formed no excep- 
tion to the rule. Scottish farmers, who are now reckoned among 
the most skilful, were, in 1700, inferior in their management of land 



160 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

to those of England, and their methods of raising crops had remained 
unchanged since the Battle of Bannockburn. Advocates of en- 
closure in England might legitimately argue that the rapid progress 
of Scottish farming dates from the General Enclosure Act for 
Scotland which was passed in 1695. The south-eastern counties 
were the first to be improved. Forty years before (1661), John 
Ray 1 had painted an unfavourable picture of the condition of the 
inhabitants. " The men seem to be very lazy, and may be 
frequently observed to plow in their cloaks. . . . They have 
neither good bread, cheese, or drink. They cannot make them, nor 
will they learn. Their butter is very indifferent, and one would 
wonder how they could contrive to make it so bad. They use 
much pottage made of coal-wort, which they call keal, sometimes 
broth of decorticated barley. The ordinary country houses are 
pitiful cots, built of stone, and covered with turves, having in them 
but one room, many of them no chimneys, the windows very small 
holes, and not glazed." Alexander Garden of Troup describes the 
farming system which was followed in 1686. The land was divided 
into in-field and out-field. The in-field was kept " constantly 
under corne and bear, the husbandmen dunging it every thrie years, 
and, for his pains, if he reap the fourth come, he is satisfied." The 
out-field was allowed to grow green with weeds and thistles, and, 
after four or five years of this repose, was twice ploughed and sown 
with corn. Three crops were taken in succession ; then, when the 
soil was too exhausted to repay seed and labour, it reverted to its 
weeds and thistles. Sir Archibald Grant,^ of Mon;yTnusk in Aber- 
deenshire, says that in 1716 turnips grown in fields by the Earl of 
Rothes and a few others were objects of wonder to the neighbour- 
hood, that, except in East Lothian, no wheat was grown, that on 
his own estate there were no enclosures, no metalled roads, and no 
wheel-carriages. On the family property, when his father allowed 
him to undertake the management — " there was not one acre 
inclosed, nor any timber upon it, but a few ehn, cycamore, and ash 
about a small kitchen garden adjoining to the house, and some 
stragling trees at some of the farm-yards, with a small cops- 
wood, not inclosed, and dwarfish, and broused by sheep and 
cattle. All the farmes ill disposed, and mixed ; different persons 
having alternate ridges ; not one wheel-carriage on the esteat, nor 

^ Select Remains of John Ray, London, 1760. 

* Miscellany of the Spalding Club, Aberdeen, 1841-2, vol. ii. p. 96 etc. 



LAND AS AN INVESTMENT FOR MONEY 161 

indeed any one road that would alow it. . . . The whole land 
raised and uneven, and full of stones, many of them very large, 
of a hard iron quahty, and all the ridges crooked in shape of an S, 
and very high and full of noxious weeds, and poor, being worn out 
by culture, without proper manure or tillage. . . . The people 
poor, ignorant, and slothfull, and ingrained enimies to planting, 
enclosing, or any improvements or cleanness." 

Neither in Scotland nor in England were open-field farmers, or 
tenants-at-will, or even leaseholders for hves, likely to initiate 
changes in the cultivation of the soil. It was almost equally idle 
to expect that small freeholders would attempt experiments on the 
agricultural methods of their forefathers, which, in a single season, 
might bring them to the verge of ruin. In both c ountries, it w as 
t he large landlords who too k the lead in_ the_agricultural revolution 
of the eighteenth century, and the l arger farmers who were the first 
to a dopt improvem ents. Both classes found that_land was the 
m ost profitable inves tment for their capital.^ Their p^sqnal 
motives were probably, in the main, self-interested, and a risfi in 
rental value or in the profits of their business was their xeward. 
But though philanthropy and farming make a fractious mixture, 
the move ment was of national value. When the sudden develop- 
ment of manufacturing industries created new markets for food- 
suppHes, necessity demanded the conversion of the primitive self- 
sufficing village-farms into factories of bread and meat. For more 
than half a century the natural conservatism or caution of agri- 
culturists resisted any extensive change. Down to 1760 the pl-, 
pressure of a growing population was scarcely felt. Nor were the 
commercial advantages of scientific husbandry so clearly estabhshed, 
even in 1790, as to convince the bulk of Enghsh landlords of the 
wisdom of adopting improved methods. 

The comparatively slow progress of the movement is illustrated 
by the variations in the number of Enclosure Acts passed before 
and after 1760. But it must always be remembered that an Act of 
Parhament was not the only method of enclosure, and that counties 
had been enclosed, either entirely or mainly, without their inter- 
vention. In Tudor times open-field arable lands and common 
pastures had been sometimes enclosed not only by agreement or 
purchase, but by force or fraud. Some timm| they had been 
extinguished, in whole or in part, by one individual freeholder, 
who had bought up the strips of his partners. Sometimes, where 

L 



162 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

there was no other freeholder, they had been consoHdated by the 
landlord, who allowed the leases to expire, and re-let the land in 
several occupation. Sometimes they had been enclosed piece- 
meal by a number of separate owners ; sometimes all the partners 
had united in appointing commissioners, or arbitrators, who dis- 
tributed the open-field in individual o^^nership. By these private 
arrangements large tracts of land had been enclosed without the 
intervention of the law, and some of these processes continued in 
active operation throughout the eighteenth century. But it was 
difficult to make a voluntary agreement universally binding. 
Modifications of the open-field system, which were introduced 
without ParHamentary sanction, were hable to be set aside by 
subsequent action. Instances of breaches of voluntary agreements 
are quoted by the Reporters to the Board of Agriculture. Thus, 
in one Buckinghamshire parish, the inhabitants, who had obtained 
an Act of Parliament for the interchange and consolidation of 
intermixed holdings, but not for their enclosure, ploughed up the 
dividmg balks, and grew clover. But, several years later, one 
of the farmers asserted his legal right to the herbage of the balks 
by turning his sheep into the clover crops which had taken their 
place. In another parish in the same county, the inhabitants 
agreed to exchange the dual system of one crop and a fallow for a 
three-year course of two crops and a fallow. But, after a few years, 
the agreement was broken by one of the farmers exercising his 
common rights over the fallows by feeding his sheep on the growing 
crops. Such breaches of voluntary arrangements could only be 
prevented by obtaining the sanction of Parliament, and so binding, 
not only dissentients, but those who were minors, possessed limited 
interests, or were under some other legal disabihty to give vahd 
assent. 

In the seventeenthj2£ntury, it had to some extent become the 
pra ctice to obtain confirmation of enclosing agreements fr om the 
Cou rt of Chancer y, or, where the Crown was concerned, the Royal 
sanction. There is some evidence that the thre at of a Chancer y 
su it wa s._usg d as a me ans of obtaining consents, and that an attempt 
was made to represent the decision as a legal bar to claims of common 
by those who were not parties to the suit. After the Restoration 
a change of practice Mas made, which marks, perhaps, the growing 
desire to curb the power of the Crown. The jurisdictionwOf the 
Cour t of Chancery was at firsts supplemented, then ousted, by the 



METHODS OF ENCLOSING LAND 163 

private Act of Parliament. _ If four-fifths or sometimes a smaller 
proportion, in number and value, of the parties interested, together 
with the landowner and the tithe-owner, were agreed, the Enclosure 
BiU received Parliamentary sanction. Commissioners were ap- 
pointed who proceeded to make an award, consolidating the inter- 
mixed lands of the open farm and dividing up the commons. Of 
these private Enclosing Acts the earhest instance occurs in the 
reign of Jame sTl. (4 Jac. I. c. 11). But it was not till the reign of 
Ajme that they became _ the recognised method of proceeding. 
Even then the Acts were sometimes only confirmatory of arrange- 
ments already made between the parties. In the reigns of George I., 
George II., and George III., the number increased, at first slowly, 
then rapidly. Acts for enclosing only wastes, in which pasture 
commons were often included, must be distinguished from those 
Acts which dealt, not only with pasture-commons, but also with 
open arable fields and meadows, mown and grazed by the partners 
in common. Of the first class, there were, in the first sixty years 
of the eighteenth century, not more than 70 Acts, while from 1760 
to 1815 there were upwards of 1000. Before 1760 the number of 
Acts dealing more specifically with the open-field system did not 
exceed 130. Between 1760 and 1815 the number rose to upwards 
of 1800. Of the area of waste, open-field and common, actually 
enclosed for the first time, it is impossible to speak with any cer- 
tainty. The quantity of land is often not mentioned in thb 
Enclosure Act, or can only be calculated from uncertain data. No 
record is available for the area enclosed by private arrangement 
or individual enterprise. It may, however, be safely estimated 
that not less than 4 miUion acres were enclosed in England and 
Wales within the period. Probably this figure was in reahty con- 
siderably exceeded ; possibly it might be, without exaggeration, 
increased by two-thirds . 

Before 1790, in many parts of England, the process of enclosing 
open-field 'farms and commons had been practically completed by 
private arrangement without the expensive intervention of Parlia- 
ment. At different dates, and with Kttle or no legislative help, 
the ancient system of cultivation, if it ever existed, had been almost 
extinguished in the south-eastern -counties of Sufitolk and Essex ; 
in the southern counties of Kent and Sussex ; in the south-western 
counties of Somerset, Devon, and Cornwall ; in the western coun- 
ties of Hereford, Monmouth, Shropshire, and Stafford ; in the 



164 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

northern counties of Cheshire, Lancashire, Westmoreland, Cum- 
berland, Northumberland, and Durham. No generalisation will 
explain why these districts should have been enclosed sooner or 
more easily than elsewhere.^ The facts remain that no Parha- 
mentary enclosures took place in Kent, Devonshire, Cornwall, or 
Lancashire ; that as early as the middle of the sixteenth century 
Kent, Essex, and Devonshire were stated by a Tudor writer 
to be the most enclosed and wealthiest counties ; ^ that in 1602 
Carew, the historian of Cornwall, recorded that his countrymen " fal 
everywhere from Commons to Inclosure, and partake not of some 
Eastern Tenants' envious dispositions, who will sooner prejudice 
their owne present thrift, by continuing this mingle-mangle, than 
advance the Lords expectant benefit, after their terme expired " ; ^ 
that in 1656 Joseph Lee^ mentions Essex, Hereford, Devonshire, 
Shropshire, Worcester as " wholly enclosed " ; that in 1727 the 
Rev. John Laurence says that "as to the Bishoprick of Durham, 
which is by much the richest Part of the North, Nine Parts in Ten 
are already inclosed." ^ 

Since the last half of the fifteenth century the enclosing move- 
ment had been continuously in operation. Why, in the_eig^teenth 
and nineteenth centuries, was more land enclos f^d b y Act of P arlia- 
ment in some_districts--.than in others ? The answer depends on 

^ The question may be stated in figiires, which are collected from Dr. 
Slater's The English Peasantry and the Enclosure of Common Fields (1907), 
Appendix B. 

During the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, enclosures by Act of Par- 
liament were made of the following areas of open-fields (arable and meadow) 
and commons, in the South-East and South- West, in the West, the North- 
West, and North : Suffolk, 22,206 acres ; Essex, 17,393 acres ; Kent, none ; 
Sussex, 16,185 acres ; Somerset, 30,848 acres ; Devon, none ; Cornwall, none ; 
Hereford, 8,168 acres; Monmouth, l,293acres; Shropshire, 2,3 10 acres ; Stafford, 
16,925 acres ; Cheshire, 3,326 acres ; Lancashire, none ; Westmoreland, 3,237 
acres ; Cumberland, 8,700 acres ; Northumberland, 22,348 acres ; Durham, 4,637 
acres. 

During the same period the following areas of open-fields and commons 
were enclosed by Act of Parliament in the Midlands, the East, and the North- 
East : Bedfordshire, 91,589 acres ; Buckinghamshire, 111,427 acres; Oxford- 
shire, 142,238 acres ; Northamptonshire, 308,722 acres ; Warwickshire, 131,104 
acres; Rutland, 43,901 acres; Leicestershire, 185,176 acres; East Riding of 
Yorkshire, 274,479 acres ; West Riding, 172,944 acres ; Lincolnshire, 445,777 
acres ; Norfolk, 106,043 acres ; Cambridgeshire, 87,413 acres ; Huntingdonshire, 
93,366 acres. 

* Compendious Examination, etc., by W. S. (1549). 
^Cornwall (1602). 

* Vindication of a Regulated Enclosure (1656). 
^ A New System of Agriculture (1727). 



VARYING DATES OF ENCLOSURES 165 

local circumstances or agricultural conditions. Disturbancesjjn the 
norther n and w egjeiiL-Eorders were_ unfavourable to settled agri- 
culture, and villagejarms and conimons never throve extensively 
in the counties adjoining the borders of Scotland and Wales. In 
districts which abounded in fens, marshes, moorlands or hills, the 
space occupied by open-fields was necessarily limited, although the 
inhabitants of the neighbourhood may have exercised over these 
waste tracts rights of goose-pasture, of cutting fuel, turf, or reeds, 
or, where possible, of grazing. But the land, when enclosed, was 
taken in from the wild, and was, from the first, cultivated in separate 
holdings. Othfir__diatricts, which naturally were clothed with 
extensive woodlands or forest, were enclosed piecemeal by individual 
enterprise for individual occupation. After the end of the four- 
teenth century, it is unhkely that any cleared land would have been 
cultivated in common. Other districts, lastly, which were indus- 
triaUy^eveloped by the neighbourhood of large towns, or by the 
existence of some manufacturing industry, were early enclosed, 
either because of the demand for animal food_and dairy produce, or 
because of the scarcity of purely agricultural labour. 

On these general principles, before the era of Parhamentary 
enclosure, may be partially explained the comparative absence or 
disappearance of open-fields and pasture commons in the border 
counties, in the Wealds of Surrey, Kent, Sussex, in the forest 
districts of Hampshire, Essex, Warwickshire, or Nottinghamshire, 
in the neighbourhood of London or Bristol, or in the clothing 
districts of Devon and Somerset, of Essex, and Suffolk, or of parts 
of Norfolk. No doubt enclosure of cultivated land by agreement 
was at this period chiefly made for grazing and dairjdng purposes. 
But at the same time a large addition was being continuously made 
to the arable area of the country, partly by the reconversion of 
grass-land to tUlage after fertihty had been restored by rest^ partly 
by the reclamation and enclosure of new land well adapted for 
grain. " Consider," writes BUth, " the Wood-lands who before 
Enclosure were wont to be releeved by the Fieldon with Com of 
all sorts. And now are grown as gallant Corn Countries as be m 
England." ^ This addition to tillage necessarily affected the whole 
of the old corn-growing districts, where a large acreage, more fitted 
for pasture than for tillage, was kept under the plough by the 
open-field system. The effect was more and more felt when in- 
1 The English Improver, chap. xiii. 



166 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

creasing facilities of communication enabled farmers to put their 
land to the best use by relieving them from the old uniform 
necessity of growing corn for the locahty. \y 

Elsewhere, the early or late enclosure of land was in the main 
determined by such agricultural reasons as climate or soil, ^tja.- 
clqsure took place first, where it paid best agriculturally. In 
the moister chmate of the South-west and West the rigid separa- 
tion of arable from pasture was unnecessary. In some parts of 
the country the suitabihty of the land for hops or fruit necessitated 
early enclosure. Bhth's reference to the plantation of the hedge- 
rows with fruit-trees in " Worcestershire, Hereford, and Glostershire 
and great part of the county of Kent " points to separate occupation 
in the first half of the seventeenth century.^ In other parts, if 
corn-land was more adapted to pasture, it was, under the new con- 
ditions, enclosed and laid down to grass. It was thus that the 
grazing districts on the water-bearing pasture belt of the Midlands, 
or the dairying districts of Gloucestershire or Wiltshire came into 
separate occuj)ation. So also, where the soil was of a quahty to 
respond quickly to turnips, clover, and artificial grasses, it was 
enclosed in order that it might profit by the new discoveries. This 
was the case on the fight soils of Norfolk, where, as Houghton noted, 
turnip husbandry had been introduced with success before the 
close of the seventeenth century. This early use of roots is con- 
firmed by Defoe,2 who says of Norfolk ; " This part of England is 
remarkable for being the first where the Feeding and Fattening of 
Cattle, both Sheep as well as black Cattle, with Turnips, was first 
practis'd in England." 

Where land did not appear to be so immediately susceptible to 
the influence of these improvements, which were still imperfectly 
understood, the question of enclosure, and of the use to which the 
land was put, became mainly one of expense. Only the best and 
strongest-4aiid.jras_ able to endure the open-field system without 
exhaustion. To separate occupiers, eighteenth century improve- 
ments offered new means of restoring the fertihty of exhausted soil. 
At the same time the revolution in stock-breeding held out new 
temptations to graziers. Much worn-out arable land of indifferent 
or medium quahty was enclosed because its produce was declining. 

^ English Improver, chap. xix. 

* A Tour thro^ the whole Island of Great Britain (2nd edition, 1738), vol. i. 
pp. 60-61. Defoe began his tour in 1722. 



DISTRICTS ENCLOSED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT 167 

If the price of corn was low, it was cheaper, and more profitable for 
the time, to lay it down to grass. If prices were high, the increased 
margin of profits from arable farming under separate management 
might cover the heavy cost of legislation and adaptation. Through- 
out the eighteenth century the number of Enclosure Acts fluctuated 
considerably with the advance or decline in the price of wheat. 
Thus the serious scarcity of corn from 1765 to 1774 produced a 
great crop of legislation. During the next fifteen years, the number 
of Acts was kept in check by the comparative abundance of the 
harvests. Once more, du ring the famine years of the Napoleonic 
war, the Acts rapidly multiphed under the pressure of necessity 
and with the progress of agricultural skill. The need was too 
urgent to"admit of those private arrangements for the break-up of 
open-field farms which could often only be carried out after years 
of preparation. Private Acts of Parhament were more speedy in 
their operation. Still the quaHty of the soil to a great extent con- 
trolled the course of legislation. Open-fields continued longest in 
the districts where the soil was chalk, or where the village farm 
occupied rich corn-growing land, or where the soil was so unsuited 
for grass that the prospects of increased profits from arable farming, 
even in separate occupation, were doubtful. A geological map of 
the country would, it is beHeved, supply the key to many difficulties 
in the history of enclosure. \^ 

The parts of England which were most affected by the Enclosure 
Acts of the Hanoverian era were the corn-growing districts of the 
East, North-east, and East Midlands. Within this area are four- 
teen out of the fifteen counties which, in proportion to their size, 
contained the largest acreage enclosed by Act of Parhament. The 
ease with which in other districts individual occupation was sub- 
stituted for common cultivation renders it difficult to answer the 
question, why in these particular groups of counties the cheaper 
process of private arrangement was not adopted ? No completely 
satisfactory answer can be given. It was from these districts that 
the greatest opposition to the enclosing movement of the Tudor 
and Stewart periods had come. It was also in these districts that, 
in the closing years of EHzabeth, enclosures were proceeding so 
rapidly as to be restricted by a special Act of Parhament.^ The 
effect of popular outcry and consequent legislation may have been 
to confine the enclosing movement to Northamptonshire, Leicester- 
139 Eliz. c. 2 (1597). 



168 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

shire, and Warwickshire, where it continued to run its course in 
the seventeenth century. Elsewhere in the Midlands, the counties 
that formed the area from which London drew its chief suppHes 
of corn, could not have been converted into pasture without raising 
a storm of opposition. Yet throughout the seventeenth century 
and during the first three quarters of the eighteenth, enclosures 
had been most profitable where arable land had been converted to 
grass, and large tracts of Midland pasture were the result of this 
movement before ParHamentary intervention had begun. Leicester- 
shire is a conspicuous example of this conversion. It was, notes 
Marshall in 1786, " not long ago an open arable county ; now it is 
a continuous sheet of greensward." The vale of Bel voir, which, in 
the days of Plattes, was considered to be the richest corn-district 
in the country, had been laid down to grass before the time of Defoe 
(1722-38).^ He describes the whole county as given over to grazing. 
" Even most of the Gentlemen are Grasiers, and in some Places the 
Grasiers are so rich that they gi'ow Gentlemen." Yet in the first 
half of the seventeenth century it had been a county of open- 
fields, famous for the pigs that were fattened on its beans and 
pease .2 Apart from difficulties arising from local pecuHarities of 
tenure, or of the shape of open-field farms, or from want of roads, 
from public opinion, or special legislation, the Midland com counties 
perhaps owed some of their immunity to the interested opposition 
of tithe-owners, whose assent was necessary to ParHamentary 
enclosure. For the sake of the great tithes, they would always 
strenuously resist any attempt by private Act to turn open-fields 
into pasture farms. It was not till after 1765 that their views 
underwent a change. The icQp roveme nts in arable farming, which 
were now possible on separate holdings, together with the high 
price of corn, made it probable that, even when open-fields and 
commons were enclosed, the area of tillage would not be diminished. 
These considerations were strengthened during the French wars of 
1793-1815, which by the stoppage of foreign com supphes added 
new reasons for seeking legislative aid in enclosure. 

Up to the accession of George III. (1760) prices of com ruled low. 
More than once in the preceding period (1700-60) loud complaints 
were heard of agricultural depression, of farmers unable to pay 

1 Tour, vol. ii. pp. 332, 335. 

* The same remark is made by Professor Bradley in his Gentleman and 
Farmer^ a Guide for the Increase and Improvement of Cattle (1729), p. 75. 



AN INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATOR 169 

\ 

their rents, of the small gentry forced to sell their estates, of land- 
lords compelled by loss of income to curtail their estabhshments. 
As yet there was no scarcity caused by population outstripping pro- 
duction, no increased demand for food supplies from great industrial 
centres. But without these spurs to farming progress, preparations 
for advance were being made, and far-reaching improvements in 
the cultivation of arable land had been aiready tested or initiated 
by men hke Jethro Tull and Lord Townshend. 

In the progress of scientific farming Tull is one of the most 
remarkable of pioneers. His method of drilling wheat and roots 
in rows was not generally adopted till many years after his death. 
But the main principles which he laid down in his Horse-Hoeing 
Husbandry (1733) proved to be the principles on which was based 
an agricultural revolution in tillage. The " greatest individual 
improver " that British agriculture had ever known, he sought to 
discover scientific reasons for observed results of particular practices. 
He was thus led to strike out for himself new and independent Lines 
of investigation. The chemistry of plant-life was in its infancy, 
the science of vegetable physiology an almost untrodden field of 
knowledge. Into "these comparatively unexplored regions Tull 
advanced alone, and, by minute observation of nature and stubborn 
tenacity of purpose, he advanced far. Considering his difficulties 
and disadvantages, it is a remarkable proof of his real genius that 
he should have discovered so much. He Hved in a sohtary farm- 
house, remote from such scientific aid as the age afforded, or from 
friends in whom he could confide. His microscope was " very 
ordinary " ; his appHances were self-made ; his experiments 
thought out for himself. He made his observations and notes, 
tortured by the " stone, and other diseases as incurable and almost 
as cruel." His labourers, by whom he was, metaphorically, 
" insulted, assaulted, kicked, cuffed and bridewelled," tried his 
patience beyond endurance. His son turned out an extravagant 
spendthrift who ended his days in the Fleet Prison. Ill-health and 
misfortune made him irritable. His sensitive nature was galled 
ahke by the venomous criticism of the book,^ in which he pubhshed 
the results of his thirty years' experience as a farmer, and by its 
shameless plagiarism. Yet he never lost his confidence that his 

1 The new Horse-Houghing Husbandry, 1731. (Five chapters of the sub- 
sequent book which were pirated and re-printed in Ireland.) New Horse- 
Hoing Husbandry, 1733. Supplement, 1740. WiUiam Cobbett edited and 
published the Horse-Hoeing Husbandry in 1822 : 2nd edition, 1829. 



170 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

" practice would one day become the general husbandry of 
England." 

The son of a Berkshire landowner, Jethro Tull was bom at 
Basildon in 1(374. From Oxford, which he left without taking a 
degree, he entered Gray's Inn as a law student, made the grand 
tour of Europe, and was called to the Bar in 1699. Scholar, 
musician, traveller, lawyer, he became a farmer not by choice but 
from necessity. In. 1699 he settled do^vn with his newly married 
wife at " Howberry " Farm ^ in the parish of Crowmarsh, near 
Wallingford. There he hved ten years. In 1709 he moved to Mount 
Prosperous, a hill-farm in the parish of Shalbourn, on the borders 
of Berkshire and Wiltshire. Two years later, the failure of his health 
drove him abroad to save his life. Returning in 1714 to Mount 
Prosperous, he remained there till his death in 1740, Hving in a house, 
covered \Wth home-made glazed tiles, which Arthur Young, who 
visited the place fifty years later, described as a " wretched hovel." 

At Crowmarsh Tull invented his drill. As a gentleman-farmer 

he found himself atTEe^ercy^of his farm-servants. From his own 

experience he verified the truth of the saying : 

" He who by the plough would thrive 
Must either hold himself or drive." 

He determined to plant his whole farm with sainfoin. But " seed 
was scarce, dear and bad, and enough could scarce be got to sow, 
as was usual, seven bushels to the acre." He set himseK to conquer 
the difficulty. By congtant observation and experiment he learned 
the difference between good and bad seed, as well as the advantages 
of care in selection, of cleaning, steeping, and change ; he also proved 
that a thirLSQwing produced the thickest crop, and discovered the 
exact depth at which the seed throve best. " So," he says, " I 
caused chaiuiels to be made, and sowed a very small proportion of 
seed, covered exactly. This was a great success." But it was also 
an innovation, and his labourers struck in a body. Tull refused to 
be beaten. He set his inventive faculty to work " to contrive an 
engine to plant sainfoin more faithfully than hands would do." 
His knowledge of the mechanism of an organ stood him in good 
stead. The groove, tongue, and spring of the sounding board 
suggested the idea of an implement which dehvered the seed 
through notched barrels. Behind was attached a bush harrow 

^ It is remarkable that this farm now (1912) contains one of the most 
highly cultivated pieces of land in the world. 



INVENTION OF THE CORN-DRILL 171 

which covered the seed. The machine answered its purpose, and 
he afterwards introduced several improvements of his original plan. 
The originaUty of his invention cannot justly be disputed, though 
his enemies, and he had many, asserted that he brought the machine 
from abroad or had been preceded by Plat, Plattes or WorHdge. 
All four inventors saw the advantage of sowing not broadcast but 
in rows. Both Plat and Plattes were setters, rather than drillers, 
of corn, and they took for their model the dibbing of beans or peas. 
Plat seems to have invented a board, to which were fixed iron 
dibbers. Something of this sort is depicted on the title-page of 
Edward Maxey's New Instruction ^ (1601). Gabriel Plattes designed 
a machine to punch holes in the land as it went along. But, as is 
pointed out in Harthb's Legacie, the author of which suggested 
hoeing the furrows by hand, the machine would have been prac- 
tically useless in wet and heavy land. Neither Plat nor Plattes 
contemplated a mechanical sowing ; both intended the seed to be 
deposited by hand. In this respect Worlidge's drill was an advance 
on his predecessors. He placed coulters in front of the seed-boxes, 
from which the seed was deposited through barrels into furrows. 
But he never made or tried his implement. When Professor Brad- 
ley in 1727 constructed a machine from Worhdge's drawing, he 
found that it would not work. To Tull, therefore, belongs the 
credit of the first driU which served any practical purpose. 

Tull's many mechanical inventions were less valuable than the 
reasons which he gave for their employment. His implements 
were speedily superseded ; his_principles of agriculture remain. 
During his foreign travels he was inij)ressed with the cultivation 
of vineyards in the south of France, where frequent ploughings 
between parallel rows of vines not only cleaned the land, but 
W'Orked and stirred the food-beds of the plants until the vintage 
approached maturity. TuU determined to extend the principles 
of vine-culture to the crops of the English farm. He^rgued that 
tillage_was_ equally necessary before and after sowing. When crops 
were sown, nature at once began to undo the effect of previous 
ploughings and sowings. The earth united, coalesced, consolidated, 
and so shut out the air and water from the roots, and decreased 
the food supply at the moment when the growing plants most 
needed increased nourishment. To some extent the use of farm- 

^ A New Instruction of Plowing and Setting of Come, handled in manner 
of a Dialogue betweene a Ploughman and a SchoUer. 



172 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

yard manure kept the land friable ; but it also stimulated the 
growth of weeds. The better course, therefore, was to keep the 
land pulverised by tillage and so to prevent the contraction of 
the food area of the growing crops. So long as wheat and turnips 
were sown broadcast, this method could not be satisfactorily 
employed. But if they were drilled in rows, divided by sufficiently 
wide intervals, the principles of vine culture could be profitably 
appHed. In two ways the crops benefited by constant tillage. 
In the first place, the land was kept clean from weeds, and so saved 
from exhaustion. In the second place, tHe repeated pulverisation 
of the soil admitted air, rain-water, and dews to the roots of the 
plants, and extended the range from which their lateral growths 
drew their food suppKes. In some respects TuU's system failed. 
His rows of thinly sown wheat, for instance, were drilled so far 
apart that the plants were slow to mature, and therefore, if sown late 
in the year, were more susceptible to bhght. But for turnips his 
method was admirable. Incidentally also he found that his " drill 
husbandry " was a substitute not only for fallows, but for farm- 
yard dung, which he dreaded as a weed-carrier. Without fallows or 
manure, he grew on the same land, by constant tillage, for thirteen 
years in succession heavier wheat crops, from one-third of the 
quantity of seed, than his neighbours could produce by following 
the accepted routine. By this discovery he anticipated one of the 
most startHng results of the Rothamsted experiments. 

The chief legacies which Jethro Tull left to his successors were 
V ■( ^-^^^^ farming, economy m seedings, driUing, and the max^im that 
^ / 1 'the more the irons are among the roots the better for the crop. 
It was along these lines that agriculture advanced. On open- 
field farmers who sowed their seed broadcast, thickly, and at 
varying depths, Tull's experiments were lost. Equally fruitless, 
so far as his immediate neighbours were concerned, was his demon- 
stration of the value of sainfoin and turnips, or the driUing of 
wheat and roots. Even his system of drilHng roots was neglected 
in England, till it had been tested and adopted in Scotland. 

It was not till TuU's principles were put m practice by large 
landlords in various parts of the country that their full advantages 
became apparent. In England this was the work of men Hke Lord 
Townshend at Raynham in Norfolk, Lord Ducie at Woodchester 
in Gloucestershire, or Lord Hahfax at Abbs Court near Walton- 
on-Thames. In Scotland the " TuUian system " was enthusiasti- 



FARMING A FASHION 173 

\ 
cally preached by the Society of Improvers in the Knowledge of 
Agriculture in Scotland (founded 1723, dissolved 1745), by Lord 
Cathcart, and by Mr. Hope of Rankeillor. In the Heart of Mid- 
lothian, Scott is true to the spirit, if not to the details, of history 
when he credits the Duke of Argyll with a keen interest in all 
branches of farming and the introduction into Inverness-shire of a 
herd of Devonshire cattle. Agriculture had for the moment become 
a fashion in society, a part, perhaps, of the artificial movement Avhich 
in gafdening created the Landscape School. Tull's system was 
discussed at Court. It was explained to George II., and therefore 
interested Lady Suffolk. The practical Queen Carohne subscribed 
to the pubHcation of the Horse-Hoeing Husbandry. Pope loved to 
" play the philosopher among cabbages and turnips." Sir Robert 
Walpole, it is said, opened the letters of his farm steward before he 
broke the seals of correspondence on State affairs ; Bohngbroke 
caused Dawley Farm to be painted with trophies of ricks, spades, 
and prongs, and, propped between two haycocks, read Swift's 
letters, uplifting his eyes to heaven, not in admiration of the author 
but in fear of rain. " Dawley," said his pohtical opponents, " has 
long been famous for a Great Cry and Httle Wool. Tup Harry 
become Mutton master." ^ 

Other landowners threw themselves energetically into the practical 
work of agricultural improvement. Charles, second Viscount 
Townshend, may be taken as a tjrpe of the reforming landlords who 
took the lead in farming their estates. Born in 1674, he died in 
1738, having succeeded to the title and estates of his father when 
a child of thirteen years old. In his early hfe, he had played a 
prominent part in the political history of the country at a critical 
period. Lord Privy Seal under WiUiam III., he served as a Com- 
missioner to treat for the Union of England and Scotland, and, as 
a joint plenipotentiary with Marlborough, signed the Peace of 
Gertruydenberg in 1709. In the same year, as Ambassador at the 
Hague, he negotiated the famous Barrier Treaty. Under George I. 
and George II., he acted as Secretary of State, was appointed Lord 
Lieutenant of Ireland, and, as joint Secretary of State with Walpole, 
directed the foreign pohcy of Great Britain. 

In 1730 Lord Townshend retired from pohtical hfe to Raynham 
in Norfolk. There he devoted himself to the care of his estates, 
experimenting in the farming practices which he had observed 
1 The Hyp Doctor, No. 32, July 20, 1731. 



174 JETHRO TULL AND LORD TOWNSHEND 

abroad, and devoting himself, above all, to improvements in the 
rotation of crops, and to the field cultivation of turnips and clover, 
which, in the preceding half century, had been successfully intro- 
duced in the county. His land mainly consisted of rush-grown 
marshes, or sandy wastes where a few sheep starved and " two 
rabbits struggled for every blade of grass." The brief but exhaustive 
list of its productions is " nettles and warrens." Townshend 
revived the ancient but almost obsolete practice of marling the 
hght lands of Norfolk. Farmers beHeved that marl was " good 
for the father, bad for the son," till he proved its value on the 
sandy soil of the county. The tide of fashion set once more in its 
favour, and farmers found another proverbial saying for their 
purpose : 

" He who marls sand 

May buy the land ; 

He that marls moss 

Suffers no loss ; 

He that marls clay 

Throws all away." 

By the use of marl alone Young calculates that " four hundred 
thousand acres have been turned into gardens." Following the 
lines of Jethro TuU, To'^shend drilled and horse-hoed his turnips 
instead of so^\'ing them broadcast. He was also the initiator of 
the so-called, Norfolk, or four-course, system of cropping, in which 
cereals, roots, and artificial grasses were alternated. The intro- 
duction of roots and grasses encouraged the farmer to observe the 
useful rule of never taking two corn crops in succession, saved him 
from the necessity of leaving a portion of land every year in unpro- 
ductive fallow, enabled him to carry more stock and maintain it 
without falling off during the winter months. For the light sands 
of Norfolk turnips possessed a special value. Roots, fed on the 
ground by sheep, fertilised and consohdated the poorest soil. 
Another portion of the crop, drawn off and stored for winter keep, 
helped the farmer to keep more stock, to obtain more manure, to 
enrich the land, to increase its yield, to verify the truth of the 
proverb " A full bullock-yard and a full fold make a full granary." 
Farming in a circle, unHke arguing, proved a productive process. 

So zealous was Townshend's advocacy of turnips as the pivot 
of agricultural improvement, that he gained the nickname of 
" Turnip " Townshend, and suppHed Pope with an example for 
his Horatian Illustrations, (Bk. ii. Epist. ii. 11. 270-9) : 



A CHAMPION OF TURNIPS 175 

\ 

" Why, of two brothers, rich and restless one 
Ploughs, burns, manures, and toils from sim to sun ; 
The other slights, for women, sports, and wines, 
All Townshend's ttirnips and all Grosvenor's mines. 

Is known alone to that Directing Power 
Who forms the genius in the natal hour." 

Townshend's efforts to improve his estates were richly rewarded. 
On the sandy soil of his o^ti county, his methods were pecuharly 
successful. Furze-capped warrens were in a few years converted 
into tracts of well-cultivated productive land. Those who followed 
his example realised fortunes. In thirty years one farm rose in 
rental value from £180 to £800 ; another, rented by a warrener at 
£18 a year, was let to a farmer at an amiual rent of £240 ; a farmer 
named MaUett is said to have made enough off a holding of 1500 
acres to buy an estate of the annual value of £1800. Some farmers 
were reported to be worth ten thousand pounds. But the example 
only spread into other counties by slow degrees. Outside Norfolk^ 
both landlords and farmers still classed turnips with rats as 
Hanoverian iimovations, and refused their assistance with Jacobite 
indignation. Even in Townshend's own county, it was not till the 
close of the century that the practice was at all^miversally adopted ; 
stiU later was it before the improved methods were accepted which 
converted Lincolnshire from a rabbit-warren or a swamp into corn- 
fields and pasture. 



CHAPTEE VIIL 

THE STOCK-BREEDER'S ART AND ROBERT BAKEWELL 

(1725-95). 

Necessity for improving the live-stock of the country ; sheep valued for 
their wool, cattle for power of draught or yield of milk ; beef and mutton 
the growing need : Robert Bakewell the agricultiiral opportunist ; his 
experiments with the Black Horse, the Leicester Longhorns, and the New 
Leicesters ; rapid progress of stock-breeding : sacrifice of wool to mutton. 

Without the aid of turnips the mere support of Hve-stock had 
been in winter and spring a difiScult problem ; to fatten sheep and 
cattle for the market was in many districts a practical impossibihty. 
The introduction, therefore, of the field cultivation of roots, clover, 
and artificial grasses proved the pivot of agricultural progress. It 
enabled farmers to carry more numerous, bigger, and heavier stock ; 
more stock gave more manure ; more manure raised larger crops ; 
larger crops supported still larger flocks and herds. Thus to the 
hopeful enthusiasts of the close of the eighteenth century the agri- 
cultural circle seemed capable of almost indefinite and always pro- 
fitable expansion. 

But recent improvements in arable farming could not yield their 
full profits till the hve-stock of the country was also improved. 
The neces^axy_revoJjAtioj9_ijlJiIiG_br^^^ 

mainly the work of RobjrtJ Bakewell (1 225r95). a Leicestershire 
farmer, hving at Dishley, near Loughborough. Its results were 
even more remarkable than those which followed from the new 
methods of Tull and Townshend. Bakewell's improvements were 
also more immediately accepted by agriculturists. The slow 
adoption of improved practices in tillage was mainly due to caution ; 
in some degree, also, it was due to the fact that the innovators 
were, if not amateurs, gentlemen-farmers.^ On the other hand, 

^ In 1756 or 1757 Mr. Pringle, a retired army surgeon, introduced the 
drilling of turnips on his estate near Coldstream in Berwickshire. His crops 



EXISTING BREEDS OF SHEEP 177 

the improved principles of stock-breeding were more readily 
accepted, not only because their superiority was at once manifest 
to the eye, but because they emanated from the practical brain of 
a professional farmer. Yet for open-field farmers they were of 
little value. As sheep and cattle increased in size and weight, and 
were bred for more speedy conversion into mutton and beef, they 
needed better and more abundant food than village farms could 
supply. Thus the improvements of Bake well, Hke those of TuU 
and Tqwnshend, added a new impulse to the progress of enclosures. 
Up to the middle of the eighteenth century sheep had been 
valued, agriculturally for their manure ia the fold, commercially 
for their skins and, above all, for their wool. Wool Avas in fact 
■ the chief source of trading profit to Enghsh farmers. Other forms 
of agricultural produce were raised as much for home consumption 
as for sale. But the trade in raw or manufactured wool, both at 
home and abroad, had been for centuries the most important of 
Enghsh industries. To the golden fleece the carcase was sacrificed ; 
the mutton as food w^as comparatively neglected. As wool-pro- 
ducmg animals sheep were classified into short wools and long wools. 
Of these two classes, short- wooled sheep were by far the most 
numerous, and were scattered all over England. Small in frame, 
active, hardy, able to pick up a hving on the scantiest food, patient 
of hunger, they were the sheep of open-field farmers ; they were 
the breeds formed by centuries of far travelhng, close feeding on 
scanty pasturage, and a starvation allowance of hay in winter. 
Such were the " heath-croppers " of Berkshire — small iU-shaped 
sheep which, however, produced " very sweet mutton." In some 
counties, as, for instance, Buckinghamshire, open-field farmers 
hired sheep, with or without a shepherd, for folding on their arable 
land. The flocks, hired from Bagshot Heath, were fed, partly on 
the commons, partly on the arable fallows, where they were folded 
every night from April to October. No money passed. The flock- 
master was paid by the feed ; the farmer by the folding. The one 
made his profit by the wool,\ the other by the manure. Sometimes 

were superior to those of the neighbouring farmers. But none followed his 
example. In 1762 a farmer named WiUiam Dawson adopted the practice 
on his farm at Frogden in Roxbm-ghshire. " No sooner did Mr. Dawson 
(an actual farmer) adopt the same system, than it was immediately followed, 
not only by several farmers in his vicinity, but by those very farmers adjoining 
Mr. Pringle, whose crops they had seen for ten or twelve years so much superior 
to their own " (General view of the Agriculture of the County of Northutnberland, 
by J. Bailey and G. Culley, 3rd edition (1805), p. 102). 

M 



178 STOCKBREEDER'S ART AND ROBERT BAKEWELL 

small men who had rights of common, or had acquired them from 
commoners, drove their flocks from open-field to open-field, folding 
them on the fallow lands of the \allage farm and receiving from 
the occupiers of the fallows Is. a week per score or leave to graze 
on the commons during some part of the winter. Nearly every 
breeding county in England had its local favourites, adapted to their 
environment of soil, climate, and geographical configuration. For 
fineness of wool, the Ryeland or Herefordshire sheejj now held the 
first place in the manufacture of superfine broad-cloth, though in 
the fourteenth century the fleece of the Morfe Common sheep of 
Shropshire had commanded the highest prices. Sussex South 
Downs, inferior in size and shape to their present type, were also 
famed for the excellence of their soft, fine, curly wools. Dorsetsr^ 
already prized for their early lambs, supphed Ilminster "with the 
material for its second, or hvery, cloths. West-country clothiers 
drew their suppHes, partly from Wales, partly from the large, 
homed, and black-faced Wiltshires, from the Exmoors, Dartmoors, 
or Devonshire Notts, the Mendips of Somerset, the Dean Foresters 
of Gloucester, or the Ryelands of Herefordshire. The eastern 
counties had their native short-wooled Norfolk and Suffolk breeds. 
The North had its Cheviots, its Northumberland Muggs, its Lanca- 
shire Silverdales, its Cumberland Herdwicks, its Cheshire Delameres. 
Here and there, some local breed was especially famous for the 
quahty of its mutton, hke that of Banstead or of Bagshot in Surrey, 
of Portland in Dorsetshire, of Clun Forest in Shropshire, or of the 
mountain sheep of Wales. But, speaking generally, it was by their 
fleeces only that sheep were distinguished. The local varieties of 
short-wools differed widely from one another. In appearance the 
long-wools were more uniform in type ; all were poUed, white-faced, 
and white-legged ; all were large-framed, and, from more abundant 
food, heavier in carcase and in fleece ; in aU the wool was long, 
straight, and strong. Less widety distributed than the other class, 
they were also by far the least numerous. In the eighteenth century 
they probably did not exceed more than one-fourth of the total 
number of sheep in the country. But the superior weight of their 
fleeces made their produce more than one-third of the total cKp. 
Among the long-wools the Cotswolds were, at this time, pre- 
eminent. Other varieties, better adapted to the special conditions 
of their respective counties, were the Lincolns, Leicesters, Devon- 
shire Bamptons, and the Romney Marsh sheep of Kent. 



EXISTING BREEDS OF CATTLE 179 

With these different breeds, both short and long wools, there was 
abundant scope for experiment and improvement. Some effort 
had been made at the close of the seventeenth century, as has 
been already noticed, to improve the lustrous fleeces of Lincolns, 
and to remedy the bareness of their legs and bellies. But, from 
the gi'azier's point of view, no breeder had yet attempted to obtain 
a more profitable shape. If any care was shown in the selection 
of rams and ewes, the choice was guided by fanciful points which 
possessed no practical value. Thus Wiltshire breeders demanded 
a horn which fell back so as to form a semicircle, beyond which 
the ear projected ; Norfolk flockmasters valued the length and 
spiral form of the horn and the blackness of the face and legs ; 
Dorsetshire shepherds staked everything on the horn projecting 
in front of the ear ; champions of the South Downs condemned all 
aUke, and made their grand objects a speckled face and leg and no 
horn at all. 

In cattle, again, no true standard of shape was recognised. Size 
was the only criterion of merit. " Nothing would please," wrote 
George Culley in 1786, " but Elephants or Giants." ^ The quahties 
for which animals were valued were not propensity to fatten or 
early maturity, but their milking capacity or their power of draught. 
The mil and the plough set the standard ; the^utcher was ignored. 
Each breeding county, however, had its native varieties, classified 
into Middle-horns, prevaiUng in the South and West of England, 
in Wales and in Scotland ; Long-horns, in the North-west of 
England and the Midlands ; and Short-horns, in the North-east, 
Yorkshire, and Durham. 

The Middle-horns in the South and West of England were red 
cattle of a uniform type ; the North Devons, nimble and free of 
movement, were unrivalled in the yoke ; the Herefords, not yet 
bred with white faces, were heavier animals which fattened to a 
greater weight ; the Sussex breed came midway in size between 
the two. None of the three were remarkable for the quantity of 
their milk. Other middle-homed breeds were the black Pembrokes, 
Hke their Cornish relatives, excellent for the small farmer, and 
the Red Glamorgans, which in the eighteenth century were highly 
esteemed as an all-round breed. Every year thousands of the 
black Angleseys were swum across the Menai Straits to the main- 

^ Quoted by Arthiir Young in his Lecture on the Husbandry of Three Famous 
Farmers (1811), pp. 10-11. 



180 STOCKBREEDER'S ART AND ROBERT BAKEWELL 

land. Scotland had its West Highlanders ; its Ayrshires, second 
to none as milkers ; its Galloways and its Anguses, originally 
middle-horned but now becommg poUed, which were driven south- 
wards to the October and November fairs of Norfolk and Suffolk 
to be fattened for the London markets. On these imported Gallo- 
ways were founded the Norfolk breed of polled cattle, and the 
Suffolk Dmis once famous all over England for their milking 
quahties. The North-west of England and the Midlands were 
occupied by the Long-horns. Of these the most celebrated were 
the Lancashires, or Cravens, so called from their home in the 
comer of the West Riding of Yorkshire which borders on Lancashire 
and Westmoreland. To this breed some attention had, as is noticed 
in the Legacie, been paid in the seventeenth century. To the same 
stock belonged the brindled or grizzled Staffordshires, valued, Uke 
the Cravens, for the dairy and for meat. The North of Lincoln- 
shire, the East Riding of Yorkshire, and Durham were famous for 
the enormous size of their short-horned cattle, which were extra- 
ordinary milkers. The Holderness breed, as it was called before 
its estabhshment on the banks of the Tees, were " more hke an 
ill-made black horse than an ox or cow." ^ The cattle were badly 
shaped, long-bodied, bulky in the coarser points, small in the prime 
parts. But they satisfied the taste of the eighteenth century 
grazier, because their gigantic frames offered plenty of bone on 
which to lay flesh. They were undoubtedly a breed of foreign 
origin. Tradition relates that, towards the end of the seventeenth 
century, a buU and some cows were introduced into the Holderness 
district from the Low- Countries. But the introduction must have 
been of an earher date. Lawson in his New Orchard (1618) says : 
" The goodnesse of the soile in Howie, or HoUow-, derness in York- 
shire is weU knouTie to all that know the River Humber and the 
huge bulkes of their Cattell there." It is probably to this intro- 
duction of foreign blood that Child alludes in his Letter in HartHb's 
Legacie (1651), when he says that httle attention was paid to 
breeding except in the north-western and north-eastern counties. 
To the same stock belonged the " long-legged short-horn'd Cow of 
the Dutch breed," which Mortimer (1707) selected as the best 
breed for milking. Probably, also, the famous " Lincolnshire Ox " 
was one of these Holderness Dutch-crossed animals. This beast 
was exhibited, as the Advertisement sets out, " with great satisfac- 
^ Culley's Observations on Live Stock (1786), p. 30. 



HORSE-BREEDING 181 

tion, at the University of Cambridge," in the reign of Queen Anne, 
He was " Nineteen Hands High, and Four Yards Long from his 
Face to his Rump. The Hke Beast for Bigness was never seen in 
the World before. Vivat Eegina ! " 

Stock-breeding, as appHed to both cattle and sheep, was the 
haphazard union of nobody's son with everybody's daughter. On 
open-field farms parish bulls were only selected for the quahty 
in which Mr. Shandy's pet, so strenuously denounced by Obadiah, 
was alleged to be wanting. When prizes were offered for the 
longest legs, it is not surprising that aU over the country were 
scattered tall, raw-boned, wall-sided cattle, and lean, leggy, 
unthrifty sheep. Our ancestors, however, were not unwise in their 
generation. Length of leg was necessary, when animals had to 
traverse miry lanes and " foundrous " highways, and roam for 
miles in search of food. Size of bone served the ox in good stead 
when he had to draw a heavy plough through stiff soil. But a 
time was rapidly approaching when beef and mutton were to be 
more necessary than power of draught or fineness of wool. Bake- 
well was the agricultural opportunist who saw the impending change, 
and knew how it should be met. By providing meat for the milHon, 
he contributed as much to the wealth of the country as Arkwright 
or Watt. There is some foundation for the statement that many 
monuments have been reared in Westminster Abbey to the memory 
of men who less deserved the honour than Robert Bakewell. 

Cart-horses also shared Bake well's attention. Before his day 
principles of breeding had been Httle studied except in the interests 
of sport. In the reign of Richard II. the principal breeding counties 
had been Lincolnshire, Cambridgeshire, and the East and West 
Ridings of Yorkshire. Men in armour needed big weight-carrying 
horses. But in the fifteenth century, horses, hke the rest of English 
hve-stock, seem to have dwindled in size. The legislature was 
alarmed ; Henry VIII. attempted to improve their height by the 
importation of the best foreign breeds, and by sumptuary laws 
which prescribed the number and height of the horses that were 
to be kept by various classes of his subjects. EHzabeth's introduc- 
tion of coaches created a new need ; if the invention of gunpowder 
and the disuse of armour displaced the " great horse " in war, he 
found a new place between the shafts. Shakespeare's plays 
illustrate some of the changes which approximated the Stewart 
standard of horse-flesh to modern ideals. The courser, which in 



182 STOCKBREEDER'S ART AND ROBERT BAKEWELL 

time of war had endured " the shock of wrathful iron arms," ^ and 
in peace was the " foot-cloth " horse,^ and three times stumbled 
under Lord Hastings,^ gives place to the " prince of paKreys " 
who " trots the air " and makes the earth sing as he touches it with 
his elastic tread.* As highways improved, travellers journeyed 
more easily and more often. The ambling roadster, whose artificial 
gait was comparatively easy, was supplanted by the hack ; the 
coach-horse and the waggon-horse began to dispute the monopoly 
of the lumbering " great horse " and the pack-horse. Sport was 
also adapting itself to the changing conditions of society. Racing 
and hunting became fashionable. Though Shakespeare had heard 

" of riding wagers. 
When horses have been nimbler than the sands 
That run i' the clock's behalf." ^ 

and was aware that " switch and spur " ^ were pHed in a " wild- 
goose chase " on the Cotswold Hills, he knew nothing of the modern 
race-course. Races, then, were trials rather of endurance than of 
speed. Nor was pace much needed in Tudor hunting ; a " good 
continuer," "^ or, as we might say, a good stayer, was more necessary. 
In coursing the hare, only the greyhounds must be fleeter than 
" poor Wat." The red deer was followed by hounds " slow of 
pursuit " ^ and by men armed with leaping-poles, except on those 
rare occasions when the great hart was hunted " at force." At 
hawkings, unless the long-winged peregrine flew down wind, horse- 
men were not pushed to the gallop ; the short- winged goshawk 
exacted from his pursuers no turn of speed. But as agriculture 
advanced, the red deer's covert was destroyed, and his extermination 
demanded as an inveterate foe to the crops. So, too, the sport of 
falconry was doomed, when hedgerows and enclosures displaced 
the broad expanse of open-fields, and the partridge no longer 
cowered in the stubble by the edge of the turf-balk under the 
tinkling bells of the " towering " falcon.^ Another beast of the 
chase and other means of capture were needed. Shakespeare stood 
on "no quillets how to slay " i*' a fox with snares and gins. But 

1 Ric. II. Act i. Sc. 3, 1. 136. ^2 Hen. VI. Act iv. So. 7, 1. 52. 
' Ric. III. Act iii. Sc. 4, 1. 83. 

* Hen. V. Act iii. Sc. 7, 1. 17. Comp. also Ven. and Ad. st. 50, where 
BlundeviU is closely copied. 

5 Cymb. Act iii. Sc. 2, 11. 72-4. ^ Rom. and Jul. Act ii. Sc. 4, 1. 75. 

' Much Ado, Act i. Sc. 1, 1. 149. * Mid. N. D. Act iv. Sc. 1, 1. 129. 

« Macb. Act ii. Sc. 4, 1. 12. i» 2 Hen. VI. Act iii. Sc. 1, I. 261. 



HORSES FOR " COURSE, CHASE, WAR, OR TRAVEL " 183 

\ 
the fox was no foe to crops ; hedgerows only added zest to his 
pursuit ; the new sport satisfied the new conditions, and demanded 
the production of the modern hunter. 

The seventeenth century saw some of the conditions created 
which have developed the various types in horses of to-day. James 
I. reduced racing to rules ; Charles I. estabhshed races at New- 
market ; Oliver Cromwell kept his stud ; Charles II. introduced the 
" Royal Mares." Changes in the art of war demanded a hghter 
and more active cavalry. Fox-hunting had become a passion with 
the country gentry. Coaches travelled more rapidly. Oxen were 
less used on the farm. During the same century, foreign breeds 
were extensively imported. Arabs were favourites of James I. 
But the authority of the Duke of Newcastle, who dishked the breed, 
Avas paramount in matters of horse-flesh.^ Barbs, or Turks were 
preferred till the Godolphin and Darley Arabians proved worthy 
rivals to the Byerly Turk. Other breeds were largely imported 
from Naples, Sardinia, Spain, Poland, Germany, Hungary, Flanders, 
and Libya. So great was the admixture of blood, that Bradley, 
writing in 1727, thinks the true-bred English horse hardly exists, 
" unless we may account the Horses to be such that are bred wild 
in some of our Forests and among the Mountains." ^ Horses 
intended for " the Course, the Chase, War or Travel " were already 
carefully studied. But horses for farm use were as j^et despised. 
De Grey ^ speaks with contempt of horses for the cart, the plough, 
the pack-saddle, and Bradley ignores them altogether. 

It was with the heavy Black-horse of the Midland counties that 
Bakewell conducted his experiments. The breed had long been 
knoAATi, and had doubtless helped to supply mounts to mediaeval 
knights. Early in the eighteenth century the breed had been 
improved by the importation of six Zealand mares. But the long 
back and long thick hairy legs were still characteristic. Defoe 
speaks of the Leicestershire horse as the " largest in England, being 
generally the great black Coach-Horses and Dray-Horses, of which 
so great a Number are continually brought up to London." Bake- 
weU's object was to correct the type to that which was best suited 

^ Methode et Invention Nouvelle de dresser les Chevaux (1658). New- 
castle's experiments were made with Barbs. The Duke also published in 
1667 A New Method and Extraordinary Invention to Dress Horses, etc. 

2 Gentleman and Farmers Guide, p. 249. 

^ The Compleat Horseman and Expert Ferrier, by Thomas de Grey (5th ed, 
1684), p. 8. 



184 STOCKBREEDER'S ART AND ROBERT BAKE WELL 

for draft. Strength and activity rather than height and weight 
were his aim. In his hands the Black Horse developed a thick 
short carcase on clean short legs. Marshall, who visited Dishley 
in 1784, grows enthusiastic over " the grandeur and symmetry of 
form " displayed in the stalhon named K. " He was, in reality, 
the fancied war-horse of the German painters ; who, in the luxuri- 
ance of imagmation, never perhaps excelled the grandeur of this 
horse." The Midland horses were generally sold as two-year-olds 
to the farmers of Buckinghamshire, Hertfordshire, Berkshire, and 
Wiltshire, who broke them into harness, worked them Mghtly on 
the land, and sold them at five or six to London dealers. The 
practice may account for some of the extravagant plough-teams, 
which agricultural ^\Titers of the eighteenth century often notice 
and condemn. 

Born in 1725, Bakewell was barely twenty when he began his 
experiments in stock-breeding. He succeeded to the sole manage- 
ment of his father's farm in 1760. Ten years later, when Arthur 
Young, armed with an introduction from the Marquis of Rockingham, 
visited Dishley, Bakewell must have somewhat resembled the 
typical Enghsh yeoman who figures on jugs of Stafiordshire 
pottery : " a tall, broad-shouldered, stout man of brown-red com- 
plexion, clad in a loose broAvn coat, scarlet waistcoat, leather 
breeches, and top-boots." Visitors from all parts of the world 
assembled to see his farm — his water-canals, his plough-team of 
cows, his irrigated meadows on which mowers were busy from May 
to Christmas, and, above all, his hve-stock — his famous black 
stalhon, his bull " Two-penny," and his ram " Two-pounder." All 
who came were astonished at the results which they saw, at the 
docility of the animals, at the kmdness vdih. which they were 
treated. But, if they hoped to learn from BakeweU's Hps the 
principles which are now the axioms of stock-breeding, they went 
away disappointed. He was a keen man of business. The secrets 
of his success were jealously guarded, except from the old shepherd 
to whom they were confided. So careful was he to keep the lead 
in his own hands that he adopted the practice of only letting his 
stalhon s, bulls, and rams by the season, and, when his best bred 
sheep were past service and fatted and sold to the butcher, he is 
said to have infected them "with the rot in order to prevent their 
use for breeding purposes. So reports Arthur Young.^ Round 

^ Farmers Tour through the East of England (1771), vol. i. p. 118. 



"SMALL IN SIZE, GREAT IN VALUE" 185 

the hall of his house were arranged skeletons of his most celebrated 
animals ; from the walls hung joints, preserved in pickle, which 
illustrated such points as smaUness of bone or thickness of fat. As 
there was no inn m the village, he seems to have kept open house 
for his visitors. He was never married. In his kitchen he enter- 
tained Russian princes, French and German royal dukes, British 
peers, and sightseers of every degree. Yet he never altered the 
routine of his daily life. " Breakfast at eight ; dinner at one ; 
supper at nine ; bed at eleven o'clock ; at half-past ten, let who 
would be there, he knocked out his last pipe." Very large sums of 
money passed through his hands. Yet, if the entry in the Gentle- 
man's Magazine ^ refers to him, he was bankrupt in 1776, and so 
lavish was his hospitahty that he is said to have died in poverty .^ 

In the treatment of Uve-stock for the butcher Bakewell's object 
was to breed animals which weighed heaviest in the best joints 
and most quickly repaid the cost of the food they consumed. He 
sought to discover the animal which was the best machine for 
turning food into money. " Small in size and great in value," 
or the Holkham toast of " Symmetry well covered," was the motto 
of his experiments. In his view the essentials were the valuable 
joints, and he swept away as non-essentials all the points on which 
fashion or prejudice had hitherto concentrated, such as head, neck, 
horn, leg, or colour. The^points which he wished to develop and 
perpetuate were beauty combined with utiHty of form, quaHty of 
flesh, and propensity to fatness. To attain these objects he struck 
out a new line for himseK. Crossing was then understood to mean 
the mixture of two ahen breeds, one of which was relatively inferior. 
Bakewell adopted a different principle, because he regarded this 
form of crossing as an adulteration rather than as an improvement. 
He bred in-and-in, using not merely animals of the same native 
breed and line of descent, but of the same family. He thus secured 
the union of the finest specimens of the breed which he had chosen 
as the best, selected for the possession of the points which he 
wished to reproduce or strengthen. 

^ In the Gent. Mag. for Nov. 1776, appears the following entry in the list 
of bankrupts : " R. Bakewell, Dishley, Leicestersh. dealer." (p. 531). 

2 Other contemporary references to Bakewell, besides those quoted, will 
be found in the Gent. Mag. vols. Ixiii. pt. ii. p. 792, and Ixv. pt. ii. pp. 9G9-70 ; 
Marshall's Midland Counties, vol. i. pp. 292-493 etc. ; Annals of Agriculture, 
vol. vi. (1786), pp. 466-98 ; Arthur Young's Husbandry of Three Famous 
Farmers (1811); George CuUey's Observations on Live Stock (1786). 



186 STOCKBREEDER'S ART AND ROBERT BAKEWELL 

It was with sheep that Bakewell achieved his greatest success. 
When he began his stock-breeding experiments, he selected his 
sheep from the best animals in the neighbourhood, and a guinea, 
or even haK a guinea, secured him his choice from the fold. The 
breed from which they were chosen were the Leicestershire or 
Warwickshire long wools. The " true old Warwickshire ram " is 
thus described by Marshall in 1789 : " His frame large, and remark- 
ably loose. His bone, throughout, heavy. His legs long and 
thick, terminating in large splaw feet. His chine, as well as his 
rump, as sharp as a hatchet. His skin might be said to rattle upon 
his ribs . . . Hke a skeleton WTapped in parchment." Even this 
animal was handsomer than a ram of the " true old Leicestershire 
sort," which Marshall saw in 1784. " A naturahst," he says, 
" would have found some diiificulty in classing him ; and, seeing 
him on a mountain, might have deemed him a nondescript ; a 
something between a sheep and a goat." Out of these unpromising 
materials Bakewell succeeded in creating a new variety. His " new 
Leicesters " became the most profitable sheep for arable farmers. 
As by degrees the compactness of form, smallness of bone, fattening 
propensities, and early maturity were perpetuated, the breed was 
established, and for a time swept all competitors before them. 
While other breeds required three or four years to fit them for 
market, the New Leicesters were prepared in two. Those who 
tried the Dishley sheep found that they throve where others pined, 
that Avhile ahve they were the hardiest, and when dead the heaviest. 
In 1750 Bakewell let rams for the season at 16s. or 17s. 6d. apiece. 
In 1789 he let none under 20 guineas, and received 3000 guineas 
for the total of that season's letting. The New Leicesters were 
the first breed of sheep which Avere scientifically treated in England, 
and though they were less adapted for the southern, eastern, and 
northern counties, their supremacy on enclosed land in their own 
Midland districts was undisputed. 

Bakewell raised the New Leicesters to the highest perfection. 
But this was not all. His breed in weight of fleece could not com- 
pete with Lincolns, and was less suited to hills or mountains than 
for enclosed arable land. He had, however, shown the way in 
which other breeds might be improved ; imitation was easy. In a 
less immediate sense he was the creator, not only of the New 
Leicesters, but of the improved Lincolns, South Downs and Cheviots. 
Before these breeds, fitted for the most fertile grasslands and plains 



LEICESTER SHEEP AND CATTLE 187 

as well as suited to hills and mountains, native races died away, 
like Red Indians before the civihsed intruders. But gradually 
supporters ralHed round other varieties. Bake well's weapons were 
turned against himself. Native sheep of other districts, improved 
on his principles, began to hold their o^vn, and, though on historical 
grounds precedence will always be given to the New Leicesters and 
the South Downs (improved by John Ellman of Glynde, 1753-1832), 
it may be questioned whether they have not been rivalled and sur- 
passed by other breeds in the quahties for which they were once 
pre-eminent. 

In cattle-breeding Bakewell was less successful. It was his 
material not his system which failed. He endeavoured to found 
his typical race on the Lancashires or Craven Longhorns, ^hich were 
the favourite cattle in Leicestershire, and, m his opinion, the best 
breed in England. He based his improvements on the labours of 
two of his predecessors. Sir Thomas Gresley of Drakelow, near 
Burton-on-Trent, began about 1720 the formation of a herd of 
Longhorns. On this Drakelow blood Webster of Canley, near 
Coventry, worked, and to his breed all the improved Longhorns 
traced their descent. Bakewell founded his experiments on a 
Westmoreland buU and two heifers from the Canley herd. To 
them he apphed the same principles which he followed in sheep- 
breeding, and with great success. As graziers' stock, the breed 
was greatly improved. But as milkers, the new Longhorns were 
deteriorated by their increased propensity to fatness. In a county 
hke Leicestershire, which depended not only on feeding stock but 
on dairy produce,^ this poverty of milking quahty was a fatal objec- 
tion. Even in his Longhorns Bakewell did not long retain the 
lead. It soon passed away from him to Fowler of Rollright, in 
Oxfordshire. But the breed itself was beaten by one which 
possessed superior natural qualities. Almost throughout England 
the Durham Shorthorns, founded on the Holderness and Tees- 
water cattle, jumped into the first place, as the best rent-payers, 
both as milkers and meat-producers. The Ketton herd of Charles 
Colling became to cattle-breeders what Bakewell's Dishley flock of 

^ Mrs. Paulet of Wymondhaixi, in the Melton district of Leicestershire, is 
said to have been the first maker of Stiiton cheeses. She supphed them to 
Cooper Thornhill, who kept the Bell Inn at Stilton (Hunts) on the great 
north road from London to Edinburgh, and they became famous among his 
customers, and throughout England. The manufacture of Stilton cheeses 
became an industry of the district. Mrs. Paulet was still living in 1780. 



188 STOCKBREEDER'S ART AND ROBERT BAKEWELL 

New Leicesters were to sheep-masters. It was as necessary for a 
superior Shorthorn to claim descent from CoUing's bull " Hubback " 
as for a race-horse to boast the blood of the Godolphin Arabian. 
From " Hubback " was descended the famous Durham ox, which 
travelled through England in a specially constructed carriage from 
1801 to 1810, exhibiting to the eyes of thousands of farmers a truer 
standard of shape than any their ancestors had conceived, and con- 
vincing them by personal interviews of the excellence of the improved 
breed. The example was followed in many parts of the country. 
Other breeds, notably the Herefords and North Devons, were 
similarly improved. The formation of herds became a favourite 
pursuit of wealthy landlords. Flora Maclvor herself might have 
lived to see the day, when country gentlemen could become breeders 
of cattle, without being " boorish two-legged steers Hke Killan- 
cureit." 

Bakewell's success and the rapidly increasing demand for butcher's 
meat raised up a host of imitators. Breeders everywhere followed 
his example ; his standard of excellence was gradually recognised. 
The foundation of the Smithfield Club in 1798 did much to promote 
the improvement of live-stock. Some idea of the effect produced 
may be gathered from the average weights of sheep and cattle sold 
at Smithfield Market in 1710 and in 1795. In 1710 the average 
weights for beeves was 370 lbs., for calves 50 lbs., for sheep 28 lbs., 
for lambs 18 lbs. In 1795 beeves had risen in average weight to 
800 lbs., calves to 148 lbs., sheep to 80 lbs., lambs to 50 Ibs.^ This 
enormous addition to the meat supply of the country, was due 
partly to the efforts of agriculturists hke TuU, Townshend, Bake- 
well, and others, partly to the enclosure of open-fields and com- 
mons which their improvements encouraged. On open-fields and 
commons, owing mainly to the scarcity of winter keep, the live- 
stock was dwarfed in size and weight. Even if the number of 
animals which might be grazed on the commons was regulated by 
custom, the stint was often so large that the pasture could only 
carry the smallest animals. Where the grazing rights were 
unhmited, as seems to have been not unusually the case in the 
eighteenth century, the herbage was necessarily still more im- 
poverished, and the size of the five-stock more stunted. On 

^ Sir John Sinclair's note for the use of the Select Parliamentary Committee 
appointed in 1795 to consider " the Waste, Uninclosed and unproductive 
Lands of the Kingdom." Appendix B, section 1, pp. 17, note. Sir John is 
not, however, always a reliable witness. 



MUTTON VERSUS WOOL 189 

enclosed land, on the other hand, the introduction of turnip and 
clover husbandry doubled the number and weight of the stock which 
the land would carry, and the early maturity of the improved breeds 
enabled farmers to fatten them more expeditiously. But one of 
the consequences of this change in sheep-farming was not at first 
foreseen. The wool was sacrificed to the mutton. A large sheep 
paid better than a small. But as the size of the animal increased, 
its fleece grew heavier, and the staple longer. The supply of fine 
fleeces from the light, poorly-fed, short-wooled sheep of the com- 
mons diminished so rapidly that, before the end of the century, a 
new classification of sheep was introduced. Instead of being 
divided into long wools and short wools, they were now classified 
as long wools and middle wools. Improvements in machinery and 
the introduction of new fabrics utihsed the produce of the heavier 
breeds of sheep ; but, for thej)etter kinds of cloth, home manufac- 
turers became increasingly dependent on foreign supphes of short 
wool, brought from Spain, Saxony, and New South Wales. A 
change of fashion intensified the need of wool for a finer quahty 
of cloth than could be obtained in this country. The coarser 
fabrics of manufacture from Enghsh material, which had contented 
our ancestors, could not retain their hold on the home or foreign 
markets. During the Napoleonic wars, the full effect of this change 
in the raw material of woollen manufactures was concealed by the 
suspension of continental rivalry. When peace was finally pro- 
claimed, it was at once felt. A pitched battle began between the 
manufacturer and the agriculturist ; the one demanded the free 
import of foreign short wool, the other the free export of EngHsh 
long wools, which made better prices abroad. Each resisted the 
demand of the other. Home manufacturers opposed the free export 
of British long-wools, because they feared the competition of 
foreign cloth. British farmers opposed the free import of foreign 
short wool, because they dreaded lest its introduction would force 
down the price of their home produce. Finally, in 1826, Lord Liver- 
pool's government took off the duties both oii the import and the 
export of the raw material. To advocates of enclosiu-es, the last 
agricultural defence of the open-field farmer and commoner seemed 
to be destroyed, when the removal of the import duty deprived the 
fleeces of their half-starved sheep of all artificial advantages over 
the finer and cheaper wools of foreign countries. 



CHAPTER IX. 

ARTHUR YOUNG AND THE DIFFUSION OF 
KNOWLEDGE. 1760-1800. 

The counties distinguished for the best farming : Hertfordshire, Essex, Suffolk, 
Norfolk, Leicestershire : the low general standard ; Arthur Young ; his 
crusade against bad farming, and the hindrances to progress ; waste 
land ; the " Goths and Vandals " of open-field farmers : want of capital 
and education ; insecurity of tenure ; prejudices and traditional practices ; 
impassable roads ; rapid development of manufacture demands a change 
of agricultural front : Young's advocacy of capitalist landlords and large 
tenant-farmers. 

During the first three quarters of the eighteenth century many- 
advances had been made in the theory, and some in the practice, of 
agriculture. Alternations of crops and the management of live- 
stock Mere better understood. But progress was still confined to 
locahties, if not to individuals. Only in such counties as Hertford- 
shire, Essex, Suffolk, Norfolk, and Leicestershire was a fair standard 
of farmmg generally estabHshed. The superior enterprise of these 
favoured districts was due to various causes, and was displayed in 
different directions. 

Without any special fertihty of soil, Hertfordshire had for the 
last hundred years enjoyed the reputation of being the best com 
county in England. To some extent it owed its superiority to the 
neighbourhood of London. But Middlesex, which shared the same 
advantage, was relatively backward. In Hertfordshire roads were 
above the average. In Middlesex turnpike roads, in spite of a 
large revenue from tolls, are described as " very bad." On the 
main road from Tyburn to Uxbridge, in the winter of 1797-8, there 
was but " one passable track, and that was less than six feet wide, 
and was eight inches deep in fluid mud. All the rest of the road 
was from a foot to eighteen inches deep in adhesive mud." Hert- 
fordshire, which had been to a great extent covered with forest, 



HERTFORDSHIRE FARMING 191 

contained, at the close of the eighteenth century, few open-field 
farms and an inconsiderable area of commons, which were practi- 
cally confined to the chalk districts in the north of the county. In 
Middlesex, on the other hand, 17,000 acres, or one-tenth of the 
county, were commons, and, out of 23,000 arable acres, 20,000 were 
cultivated in oj)en-field farms. The neighbourhood of London 
probably accounts for the predominance of pasture. Hertford- 
shire had been, for many years, an enclosed county, divided into 
small estates, and small farms conveniently varied in size. Unhke 
Middlesex, it was almost entirely arable. Its farmers had at once 
appreciated the value of turnips and clover, for which the soil was 
well adapted. Both crops must have been adopted within a few 
years after their first introduction into the country, if there is any 
truth in the tradition that Ohver Cromwell paid £100 a year to a 
Hertfordshire farmer named Howe for their successful cultivation.^ 
Other useful practices were estabhshed at an early date. Wilham 
Ellis of Gaddesden^ (died 1758), a Hertfordshire farmer whose 
wTi tings enjoyed a short-hved popularity, attributed the reputa- 
tion of " this our celebrated county " to four principal means of 
improvement : " good ploughings, mixing earths, dunging and 
dressing, resting the ground with sown grasses." The Hertford- 
shire men were clean farmers. Their ploughmen were so celebrated 
that the county was " accounted a Nursery for skill in that Pro- 
fession." Chalk was largely used on heavy clays, and red clay on 
sandy or gravelly soils. Nor were the advantages gained by neigh- 
bourhood to a great city neglected. London refuse was Hberally 
bought and freely employed. Large quantities " of soot, coney- 
chppings, Horn-shavings, Rags, Hoofs-hair, ashes " were purchased 
from " Mr. Atkins in Turnmill- Street near Clerkenwel." To these 
were added, when Walker ^ wTOte his report on the county, bones — 
boiled or burned — sheep -trotters, and malt-dust. Great numbers 
of sheep were also folded, mostly bought at Tring Fair from West- 
country drovers. But the pecuhar practice of Hertfordshire 
farmers, in which Ellis took the greatest pride, was the sowing of 
tares on the turnip fallows as green fodder for horses in May. 

1 General View of the Agriculture of Hertfordshire, by Arthvir Young (1804), 
p. 55. 

2 E.g. Chiltern and Vale Farming explained (1733) ; The Modern Husband- 
man, 8 vols. (1750). 

3 General View of the Agriculture of the County of Hertford, by D. Walker 
(1795). 



192 THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

Young (1770) states that, while in other counties the land lay idle, 
these crops fed five horses to the acre for a month, at 2s. 6d. each a 
week. It was on these crops that Hertfordshire farmers reared the 
horses which they bought as two-year-olds in Leicestershire. Yet 
at the beginning of the nineteenth century the example had been 
rarely followed in other counties. 

Suffolk and Essex also afforded good examples of the. best Enghsh 
farming as it was practised at the close of the eighteenth century. 
Both counties had, as a whole, been enclosed for many years. Only 
on the poor and chalky soil of the north-western district had open- 
fields held their own. As early as 1618,^ East Suffolk and Mid 
Suffolk Avere enclosed, and only " the westerne parts ether wholly 
champion or neer." In both comities yeomanry abounded, and 
in Essex the class was in 1807 still increasing. " For twenty 
or thirty years past scarcely an estate is sold, if divided into 
lots of forty or fifty to two or three hundred a year but is purchased 
by farmers." ^ Both counties were centres of manufacturing 
industries, and in addition enjoyed the advantage of access to a 
great market. Suffolk supplied London with butter, Essex with 
calves, for which it had been famous in the seventeenth century. 
In both counties large quantities of manure were now used on the 
land. Farmers were not always so energetic. Under a lease of 
1753 a tenant of the Suffolk manor of Hawsted was allowed two 
shillings for every load of manure which he brought from Bury and 
laid on the land. In a tenancy of twenty-one years only one load 
A^as charged to the landlord. Sixty years later, agriculturists had 
become more energetic. On the hght sands of East Suffolk, marl 
and a calcareous shelly mixture of phosphates called " crag " were 
freely employed as fertihsers. Chalk from the Kentish quaiTies 
for use on the clays, as well as London refuse, were purchased by 
Essex farmers, conveyed by sea up the estuaries, and thence dis- 
tributed in the county. Probably this traffic partly explains the 
condition of the Essex roads, which were as bad as the Suffolk 
highways were good. In both counties hollow drainage was 
practised earher than elsewhere. The drains were wedge-shaped, 
filled with branches, twisted straAv, or stone, and covered in with 
earth. Bradley ^ speaks of the " Essex practice " of making drains 

1 Breviary of Suffolk, by Robert Reyce, 1618, edited by Lord F. Hervey, 1902. 
^North-East Essex, by Arthur Yotmg (1807), vol. i. p. 40. 
3 Complete Body of Husbandry (1727), p. 133-4. 



ESSEX AND SUFFOLK 193 

two feet deep, at close and regular intervals throughout a whole 
field, filled with rubble or bushes, and he derives the term " thorough- 
drainage " from an Essex word " thorow," meaning a trench to 
carry off the water. Ploughing was in both counties economically 
conducted. The Suffolk swing-plough, drawn by two horses, was 
the common implement. Oxen were seldom used : "no groaning 
ox is doomed to labour there " is the evidence of Bloomfield. 
Turnips and clover were firmly estabhshed as arable crops. Suffolk 
had been for two centuries famous for its field cultivation of carrots. 
Cabbages were a later introduction, but extensively grown. Hemp 
was cultivated in the neighbourhood of Beccles, and hops flourished 
round Saxmundham. In Essex a pecuhar crop, growTi, generally 
together, on the same land for three years in succession, consisted 
of caraway, coriander, and teazels. The teazels were bought by 
woollen manufacturers, and fixed in a revolving cylinder to catch 
the surface of bays, says, etc., and so raise the nap of cloth to the 
required length. Suffolk was also famous for its hve-stock. The 
Suffolk Punch was a short compact horse of about fifteen hands 
high, properly of a sorrel colour, unrivalled in its power of draught, 
though, as Cullum \\Tote in 1790, " not made to indulge the rapid 
impatience of this posting generation." In the dairy the " milch 
kine " of Suffolk are said by Reyce (1618) to be as good as in any 
other county, and he notes the beauty of their horns. In later 
times the Suffolk Dun was renowned for the quantity of her milk. 
Suffolk cheese, however, had an evil reputation. It was " so hard 
that pigs grunt at it, dogs bark at it, but none dare bite it." The 
mystery of its interior inspired Bloomfield to sing of the substance, 

which 

" Mocks the weak effort of the bending blade, 
Or in the hog-trough rests in perfect spite, 
Too big to swallow and too hard to bite." 

As the eighteenth century drew to a close, it was to Norfolk and 
to Leicestershire that men had begun to look for the best examples 
of arable and pasture farming. In both counties progress had been 
largely due to the character of the farmers, and in Norfolk to the 
alertness and industry of the labourers. In Norfolk, Marshall 
(1787) says that farmers were " strongly marked by a hberahty of 
thinking," that they were men who had " mixed with what is called 
the World, of which their leases render them independent . . . 
occupying the same position in society as the clergy and smaller 

N 



194 THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

squires." Many of them had prospered enough to buy theii' 
holdings, and to add to them " numerous small estates of the 
yeomanry." Nor is this surprising in vieAv of the productiveness 
of their land under the Norfolk system of husbandry. At the end 
of the eighteenth century the average annual number of hve-stock 
sent from the county to Smithfield was 20,000 cattle and 30,000 
sheep. It was also stated in 1795, that as much corn was exported 
from the four Norfolk ports of Yarmouth, Lynn, Wells, and Blake- 
ney, as was sent abroad from the whole of the rest of England. In 
Leicestershire, again, " yeomanry of the higher class " abounded. 
" Men cultivating their own estates of two, three, four or five 
hundreds a year are thickly scattered over almost every part of 
the country " ; they had " travelled much and mixed constantly 
\^ith one another." In both Leicestershire and Norfolk the special 
branches of farming which were generally followed brought agri- 
culturists into contact with their rivals, compelled them to be 
wide-awake, and sharpened their intelhgence. Both were occupied 
in fattening stock for to\ATi markets, the Leicestershire men on 
pasture breeding their own stock, the Norfolk farmers on arable 
land buying their cattle from Scottish drovers. In one important 
respect there was a wide difference in their development. In Nor- 
folk, great landowners, Hke Lord Townshend and, later. Coke of 
Norfolk, took the lead in improvement, tested for the benefit of 
their tenants the value of the new arable methods, encouraged them 
by long leases to follow their example, and by high rents made 
imitation compulsory. In Leicestershire, on the other hand, large 
landlords were few and had given no lead ; the example was set by 
large tenant-farmers or substantial yeomen. 

Other counties had adopted other useful practices which had 
scarcely spread beyond their borders. Thus Lancashire excelled 
in the cultivation of potatoes ; Middlesex was celebrated for the 
art and practice of haymaking ; Wiltshire for the irrigation and 
treatment of water-meadows ; Cheshire for its management of 
dairy produce ; Yorkshire farmers round Sheffield had tested the 
value of bone-dust, many years before the value of the manure 
was known in other districts. But there is some evidence that 
other counties had rather fallen back than advanced. This is 
especiallj^ true of Cambridgeshire, which enjoyed the reputation of 
being the worst cultivated county in England. It wiU probably be 
true to say that the country as a whole had made no general advance 



ARTHUR YOUNG 195 

on the agriculture of the thirteenth century. The stagnation was 
mainly due to the prevalence of wastes, the system of open-field 
farming, the risk of loss of capital in improvements made under 
tenancies-at-will, the poverty and ignorance of hand-to-mouth 
farmers, the obstinacy of traditionary practices, the want of mar- 
kets, and difficulties of communication. Till these obstacles were 
to some extent overcome, agricultural progress could not become 
general. It is with the removal of these hindrances that the name 
of Arthur Young is inseparably connected. 

Bom in London in 1741, Arthur Young was the younger son of 
the Rev. Arthur Young, who o^\•ned a small estate of 200 acres at 
Bradfield in Suffolk. From his father he inherited his literary 
tastes, a habit of negligence in money matters, and ultimately a 
landed property. Out of Lavenham School he passed, at the age 
of seventeen, into a wine merchant's office at Lynn. A youthful 
fop and gallant, he there began his literary career in order to pay 
for books and clothes. Before he was nineteen, he had pubhshed 
four novels and two political pamphlets. On his father's death in 
1759, he abandoned trade for literature, and Lynn for London, 
where he launched a monthly magazine called The Universal 
Museum, which only ran for six months. The venture was unpro- 
fitable. Without profession or employment, he drifted back, in 
1763, to his mother's home at Bradfield, married, and settled down 
to farming as a business. As a practical farmer he failed, and the 
impression left by his writings is that he always would have done 
so. On three farms, which he took in rapid succession, he lost 
money. Meanwhile he was succeeding better as a writer. Books 
and pamphlets flowed from his pen with prodigious rapidity, and 
his income was considerable. In 1767 he began those farming 
tours, in the course of which he drew his graphic sketches of rural 
England, Ireland, and France.^ His careless ease of style, his racy 
forcible EngHsh, his gift of happy phrases, his quick observation, 
his wealth of miscellaneous detail, make him the first of EngHsh 
agricultural writers. Apart from the value of the facts which they 

1 A Six Weeks' Tour through the Southern Counties of England and Wales 
(1768) ; A Six Months' Tour through the North of England (1770), 4 vols. ; 
The Farmer's Tour through the East of England (1771), 4 vols. ; Tour in 
Ireland, 1776-7-8 (1780), 2 vols. ; Travels during the Years 1787, '88, '89 and 
1790, undertaken more Particularly with a view of ascertaining the Cultivation, 
Wealth, Resources, and National Prosperity of the Kingdom of France (1792-4), 
2 vols. 



196 THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

contain, his tours, with their fresh word-pictures, their gossip, their 
personal incidents, and even their irrelevancies, have the charm 
of private diaries. His Ireland was described by Maria Edgeworth 
as " the first faithful portrait of the inhabitants," and his France 
was recognised by Tocqueville as a first-hand authority on the rural 
conditions of the country on the eve of the Revohition. In 1784 
he began his Annals of Agriculture, a monthly pubhcation to which 
George III., under the name of his shepherd at Windsor, " Ralph 
Robinson," occasionally contributed. The magazine was con- 
tinued till 1809, when, owing to failing eyesight, Young discon- 
tiQued its pubhcation. He had written more than a quarter of 
the forty-six volumes himself. 

Young had now succeeded, on the death of his mother in 1785, 
to the Bradfield estate, his elder brother having broken his neck 
in the hunting-field. His Travels in France show that he sym- 
pathised with the peasants in their early efforts to free themselves 
from the ancien regime. But the subsequent course of the Revolu- 
tion filled him with horror. In 1793, he wrote an effective 
pamphlet on The Example of France a Warning to Great Britain, 
urged the formation of a " mihtia of property," and himseK joined 
the Suffolk yeomanry. In the same year Pitt estabhshed the Board 
of Agriculture, with Sir John Sinclair as President. Arthur Young 
was appointed Secretary with a salary of £400 a year and, later, 
an official residence in SackviUe Street, London. One of the first 
objects of the Board was to coUect information respecting the 
agricultural conditions of each county. For this purpose Com- 
missioners were appointed. They were not always wisely selected ; 
but for this choice, against which Young protested, the President 
was responsible. Their Reports were severely criticised by WiUiam 
Marshall 1 (1745-1818), an embittered, disappointed man, who had 

' Marshall's General Survey . . . of the Rural Economy of England has been 
frequently quoted. His valuable records fill twelve volumes published 
between 1787 and 1798, two volumes being allotted to each of the six depart- 
ments into which he divides the country : (1) the Eastern : Norfolk, 2 vols. 
(1787) ; (2) the Northern : Yorkshire, 2 vols. (1788) ; (3) the West Central : 
Gloucestershire, North Wilts, and Herefordshire, 2 vols. (1789) ; (4) the Mid- 
land : Leicestershire, etc., 2 vols. (1790); (5) the Western: Devonshire and 
parts of Somersetshire, Dorsetshire, and Cornwall, 2 vols. (1796) ; (6) the 
Southern : Kent, Surrey, Sussex and Hampshire, 2 vols. (1798). Of the first 
ten volumes a second edition was published in 1796. A second edition of the 
Southern volmnes was published in 1799, with the prefix of a sketch of the 
Vale of London. 

Marshall has none of the charm of Young. He is a heavy, didactic writer. 



THE INSPIRATION OF THE MOVEMENT 197 

himself originally suggested the estabhshment of the Board and 
the compilation of the surveys. But, with all their faults, the 
reporters collected a mass of valuable information on the state of 
farming from 1793 to 1813. Six of the surveys were by Young 
himself,! and his Report on Oxfordshire was almost his last Hterary 
work. 

Young was a man of strong prejudices. He was also wanting in 
power of generahsation. But he worked untiringly for what he 
believed to be the progress of good farming. On this object were 
concentrated the chief labours of his life — his enquiries, experi- 
ments, researches, his collections of statistics, his notes of useful 
practices, his observations on new methods. His eager face, with 
its keen eyes and aquiline features, expressed the vivacity of his 
temperament, just as his tall slender figure indicated the restless 
activity of his body. A gay and charming companion, his enthusi- 
asms were infectious. He was the soul and inspiration of the 
progressive movement. To him, more than to any other individual, 
were due the dissemination of new ideas on farming, the diffusion 
of the latest results of observation and experiment, the creation 
of new agencies for the interchange of experiences, the establish- 
ment of farmers' clubs, ploughing matches, and agricultural societies 
and shows. His married hfe was not happy ; but his wife was not 
entirely to blame. An affectionate father, his whole heart was 
given to his youngest daughter (Martha Ann, born 1783, died 1797) 
nicknamed " Bobbin." Versailles did not afford him so much 
pleasure as giving to the child a French doll. Her death broke 
down his health and spirits. Grief deepened into religious melan- 
choly. His gloom was intensified by failing eyesight. In 1811 he 
became totally bhnd. Nine years later (1820), he died in London. 

When Young began to write on agriculture, vast districts, which 
might have been profitably cultivated, stiU lay waste. Of the 
area already imder tillage, a large proportion lay in open-fields. 

But his system is better ; his generalisations are more conclusive, and less 
contradictory ; his facts are better arranged ; he was, also, a better farmer. A 
zealous collector of " provincialisms " of speech, he gives lists of the local 
words which he fovmd in use in the Northern, Midland, and West Central 
departments, and appends them, with a glossary, to the volumes to which they 
relate. Besides the Rural Economy, he pubhshed numerous other works, 
chiefly on agriculture. 

1 Young wrote the General View of the Agriculture of the County of Suffolk 
(1797), County of Lincoln (1799), of Hertfordshire (1804), of Norfolk (1804), 
of Essex, 2 vols. (1807) ; of Oxfordshire (1809). 



198 THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

Under this system, whatever might be the differences or capacities 
of the soil, the whole of the land, with rare exceptions, was placed 
under the same unvarying rotation. It was this inability to put 
land to its best use which especially roused Young's indignation. 
When he made his Eastern Tour in 1770, he found nearly all the 
Vale of Aylesbury cultivated in arable open-fields, lying in broad, 
high, crooked ridges. The course of cropping was (1) Fallow, 
(2) Wheat or Barley, (3) Beans. The land was ploughed from two 
to four inches deep, and five horses were used to each plough. 
Beans were sown broadcast, and never hoed. Drainage was badly 
needed, for the ridge system had failed. But the lands were so 
intermixed that any other system was difficult, if not impossible. 
Even in June, only the tops of the ridges were dry, and, in the 
winter, most of the land, crops and all, were soaked with water. 
As a result, the products were as bad as the land was good. The 
Vale of Aylesburj^ farmers, whom Ellis (1733) describes as " one 
of the most obstinate bigotted sort," " reap bushels where they 
should reap quarters." Both in Buckinghamshire and in Northamp- 
tonshire, the cow-dung was collected from the fields, mixed with 
short straw, kneaded into lumps, daubed on the walls of buildings, 
and, when dry, used as fuel. " There cannot," says Young, " be 
such an appUcation of manure anjrwhere but among the Hotten- 
tots." ^ Naseby Field in 1770 consisted of 6000 acres, all cultivated 
on the open-field system, on the same course of cropping which 
Young found estabhshed on village farms from the Vale of Ayles- 
bury to the north of Derbyshire. Round the mud-built village lay 
a few pasture enclosures. The tln-ee arable fields were crossed and 
re-crossed by paths to the different holdings, fiUed with a cavernous 
depth of mire ; the pastures were in a state of nature, overrun 
with nettles, furze, and rushes. The farm-houses and buildings, 
all collected in the village, were two miles distant from a great part 
of the fields. When Young visited the village again in 1785, he 
found that the land in tillage for spring corn was " perfectly matted 
with couch." Marshall, a less prejudiced observer than Yoimg, 
visited the Vale of Gloucester in 1789. There he found half the 
arable land unenclosed. Near Gloucester, and in other parts of 
the district, there were extensive tracts of land, called " Every 

^ It was no uncommon practice. Edward Laurence suggests (1727) that 
" Cow-dung not to be burnt for fuel " should be inserted as a restrictive 
covenant in all leases. He mentions Yorkshire and Lincolnshire as counties 
where dung was frequently used as fuel. 



THE GOTHS AND VANDALS 199 

Year's Land," which were cropped year after year without any 
fallows. Only the cleanest farming could have made such a system 
productive. But here Marshall found beans hidden among mustard 
growing wild as a weed ; peas choked by poppies and corn mari- 
golds ; every stem of barley fettered with convolvulus ; wheat 
pinmg in thickets of couch and thistle. It is not surprismg that 
the yield of wheat was anything from 18 bushels an acre down to 
12 or 8 bushels. 

Other instances might be quoted to show the general condition 
of open-field farms. But the system had its champions, even 
among practical agriculturists, especially if they were flock-masters. 
It cannot, therefore, always have been characterised by the worst 
farming. No doubt lower depths might be reached. If severalty 
made a good farmer better, it also made a bad farmer worse. Nor 
was the system altogether incapable of improvement. Here and 
there Young or Marshall alludes to some useful practice adopted 
on village farms. For instance, Young speaks of the drainage of 
common pastures by very large ploughs belonging to the parish, 
cutting 16 inches in depth and the same in width, drawTi by 12 
horses ; of the introduction of clover by common consent into the 
rotation of crops, or of the adoption of a fourth course instead of 
the old two- or three-shift system. So also Marshall notes the 
open-field practice of dibbing and hoeing beans in Gloucestershire, 
where beans commanded a ready market among the Guinea traders 
of Bristol as food for negro slaves on the voyage from the African 
coast to the West Indies. But, speaking generally, any rotation 
of crops in which roots formed an element was with difficulty 
introduced on arable land which was pastured in common during 
the autumn and winter months ; drainage was impracticable on 
the intermixed lands of village farms ; among the.-underfed, under- 
sized, and underbred flocks and herds of the commons the principles 
of Bakewell could not be followed. That open-field farmers were 
impervious to new methods is certain. " You might," says Young, 
" as weU recommend to them an Orrery as a hand-hoe." That they 
had not the capital to carry out costly improvements is also obvious. 
They could not bring into cultivation the sands of Norfolk, the 
wolds of Lincolnshire, or the hng-covered Peak of Derbyshire. 
From a purely agricultural point of view Young's intemperate 
crusade against village farms was justified, and he had reason on 
his side when he said that " the Goths and Vandals of open-field 



200 THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

farmers must die out before any complete change takes place." 
To some extent the same arguments applied to small farmers 
occupjdng their holdings in severalty. " Poverty and ignorance," 
says Marshall, speaking of the Vale of Pickering in 1787, " are the 
ordinary inhabitants of small farms ; even the smaller estates of 
the yeomanry are notorious for bad management." It was on the 
larger farms that he found the spirit of improvement and the best 
practice. In Gloucestershire (1789) he looked to the " few men 
of superior inteUigence " to raise the standard of the profession. 
Nor did enclosures necessarily mean an improvement of methods. 
In Derbyshire, at the time of Young's tour in 1770, many farmers 
on new enclosures pursued the same course of cropping to which 
they had been restricted by the " field constraint " of village farms. 
Sometimes the landlord, and not the tenant, was the Vandal or the 
Goth. Thus in Cambridgeshire farmers on freshly enclosed land 
were bound by their leases to continue the old course of faUow, 
corn, and beans. 

Even when a tenant-farmer possessed both enterprise and capital, 
the method of land-tenure discouraged improvement. Without 
some security for his outlay, no tenant could venture to spend 
money on his land. At the same time he was often expected to 
make improvements which now are considered the duty j)f^a^ land- 
lord and parts of the necessary equipment of a farm. Yet the 
commonest forms of tenure were lettings froni yesir to year, voidable 
on either side, as they then were, at six months' notice. In the 
eastern counties leases for terms of years, with covenants for 
management, were in the last half of the century becoming a usual 
form of letting. But elsewhere long leases were regarded with 
justifiable suspicion by both parties. Tenants objected to them, 
because they bound them to take land for a long period before they 
knew what the land would do, and to make fixed annual payments 
based on current prices which might not be maintained. Land- 
lords also objected to them, because they deprived owners of the 
advantages of a rise in prices, and " told the farmer when he might 
begin systematically to exhaust the land." Where a good under- 
standing existed between landlords and tenants, leases were not 
indispensable. Land was often farmed on verbal agreements. 
Ordinary tenancies-at-will secured Berkshire and Nottinghamshire 
farmers in their holdings from generation to generation. Under the 
same tenancy, on the Duke of Devonshire's estates in Derbyshire, 



INSECURITY OF LAND-TENURE 201 

tenants even carried out costly and permanent improvements. 
Often, however, the uncertainty of this form of tenure checked 
enterprise ; because of it, also, tenants fell into the routine of the 
district and plodded along in the beaten track trodden by their 
ancestors. Sometimes the uncertainty was a real insecurity. 
Thus, in Yorkshire, in 1787, Marshall notices that confidence 
between landlord and tenant had been destroyed by successive 
rises in rents. " Good farming ceased, for fear the fields should 
look green and the rent be raised." Local rhymes expressed the 
popular belief that he " that havocs may sit," while the improving 
tenant must either pay increased rent or "flit." Leases for lives 
were common, especially in the south-western counties. They 
gave a fixity of tenure ; but they were necessarily, both for tenant 
and landlord, somewhat of a gambhng speculation. Fourteen 
years' purchase of the rental value was the usual price for a lease 
of three fives. The initial outlay crippled the first tenant, and, 
only if the fives proved good, was the purchase remunerative. On 
the other hand, the landlord was often obfiged, as the third life 
drew towards its close, to put himself in as sub-tenant to save his 
land from exhaustion and his buildings from ruin. Leases for very 
short terms were not infrequent. On open-field farms in Bedford- 
shu-e and Huntingdon the term was three years, in Durham six 
years, corresponding to the completion of one or two courses of the 
ordinary three-shift routine. But in the last twenty years of the 
eighteenth century, leases for 7, 14, and 21 years became more 
common. Even longer terms were often granted, as the enthusi- 
asm for improvement extended. Tenants under long leases throve 
on rents fixed before the high prices during the Napoleonic war ; 
but after 1813 the position was disastrously reversed. Prudent 
men had taken their money out. The sufferers were new men, 
who had enjoyed none of the advantages of the system ; they were 
its victims, never its beneficiaries. Two of the difficulties by which 
the tenure is embarrassed were already becoming important, if not 
burning, questions — the compensation for unexhausted improve- 
ments, and the covenants imposed by landlords. Some of the 
restrictions imposed by leases were a bar to progress. Leicester- 
shire graziers, for example, were crippled by the absolute prohibi- 
tion of arable farming ; they were forced either to sell off their 
stock at Michaehnas when it was cheapest, or to buy winter-keep 
from Hertfordshire. On the other hand, covenants of a reasonable 



202 THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

nature proved invaluable in lifting the standard of a stationary 
agriculture, and raising farming to a higher level. 

Other formidable obstacles to progress lay in the mass of local 
prejudices and the obstinate adherence to antiquated methods. 
All over the country there were men like the " round-f rocked " 
farmers of Surrey, who prided themselves on preserving the prac- 
tices and dress of their forefathers, men of " inflexible honesty," 
enemies equally to " improvements in agriculture " and to the 
commercial morahty of a new generation. Reforming agriculturists 
no doubt were too ready to ignore the sohd basis of sound sense 
and experience which often underlay practices that in theory were 
objectionable. In their excuse it may be urged that their patience 
was sorely tried. Traditional methods were treasured with jealous 
care as agricultural heirlooms ; even ocular proof of the superiority 
of other systems failed to wean farmers from the routine of their 
ancestors. In 1768 turnips and clover were still unknown in many 
parts of the country ; and their full use only appreciated in the 
eastern counties. In some districts, as in Essex (1808), clover had 
been adopted with such zeal that the land was already turning 
sick ; in others it was scarcely tried. In Westmoreland, for 
instance, in 1794, " the prejudice that exists ahnost universally 
against clover and rye-grass " was said to be "a great obstacle to 
the improvement of the husbandry of the county." In Cumber- 
land, where clover had been introduced in 1752, it was still rare in 
1797. Turnips remained, at the close of the eighteenth century, 
an " ahen crop " in many counties, such as Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, 
Hampshire, Staffordshire, Herefordshire, Shropshire, Glamorgan- 
shire, and Worcestershire. Even where they were grown, they 
were generally sown broadcast, and seldom hoed. In 1780 a 
Norfolk farmer settled in Devonshire, where he drilled and hoed his 
roots. His crops were far superior to those of other farmers in the 
district ; yet, at the close of the century, no neighbour had followed 
his example. In 1794 many Northumberland sheep-masters still 
mUked their ewes, though the more intelligent had discontinued 
the practice. Another illustration of the tyranny of custom may 
be taken from ploughing. In many districts the Norfolk, R-other- 
ham, or SmaU's ploughs had been introduced at a great economy 
of cost. But elsewhere farmers still clung to some ancestral imple- 
ment. In Kent, at the time of Cromwell, it was not unusual to see 
six, eight, or twelve oxen attached to a single plough. On the 



AGRICULTURAL HEIRLOOMS 203 

dry land of East Kent, on stony land, on rough hill-sides, the 
implement undoubtedly had, and has, its uses. But on aU soils 
ahke, a century and a half later, the same huge machine, looking 
at a distance more Hke a cart than a plough, with a beam the size 
of a gate-post, remained the idol of the men of Kent. In Middlesex, 
in 1796, it was no uncommon sight to see ploughs drawn by six 
horses, with three men in attendance. In Berkshire (1794), four 
horses and two men ploughed one acre a day. In Northampton- 
shire Donaldson (1794) found in general use a clumsy implement, 
with a long massive beam, drawn by four to six horses at length, 
with a boy to lead and a man to hold. By immemorial custom in 
Gloucestershire two men, a boy, and a team of six horses were 
usually employed in ploughing. Coke of Norfolk sent into the 
county a Norfolk plough, and ploughman, who, with a pair of horses, 
did the same work in the same time. But though the annual cost 
of the operation was thus diminished by a haK, it was twenty 
years before the neighbours profited by the lesson. 

The backwardness of many agricultural counties was to some 
extent due to difficulties of communication. By the creation of 
Turnpike Trusts (1663 and onwards) portions of the great high- 
ways were placed in repair.^ Yet in the eighteen mUes of turnpike 
road between Preston and Wigan, Young in 1770 measured ruts 
" four feet deep and floating with mud only from a wet summer," 
and passed three broken-do\vn carts. " I know not in the Avhole 
range of language," he says, " terms sufficiently expressive to 
describe this infernal road. Let me most seriously caution all 
travellers who may accidentally propose to travel this terrible 
country to avoid it as thej^ would the devil, for a thousand to one 
they break their necks or their hmbs, by overthrows or breakings 
down." The turnpike road to Newcastle from the south seems to 
have been equally dangerous. " A more dreadful road," he says, 
" cannot be imagined. I was obhged to hire two men at one place 
to support my chaise from overturning. Let me persuade all 
travellers to avoid this terrible country, which must either dislocate 
their bones with broken pavements, or bury them in muddy sand." 
The tumijike road from Chepstow to Newport was a rocky lane, 
" full of hugeous stones, as big as one's horse, and abominable 
holes." Marshall says that the Leicestershire roads, till about 
1770, had been " in a state of almost total neglect since the days 
^ For further details as to roads, see chap. xiii. 



204 THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

of the Mercians." The principal road from Tarn worth to Ashby 
lay, in 1789, " in a state almost impassable several months in the 
year." Waggons were taken off their wheels and dragged on theii' 
bellies. Essex, in the time of Fitzherbert, was famous for the 
badness of its roads. In the eighteenth century it worthily main- 
tained its reputation. " A mouse could barely pass a carriage in 
its narrow lanes," which were filled with bottomless ruts, and often 
choked by a string of chalk waggons, buried so deeply in the mire 
that they could only be extricated by thirty or forty horses. " Of 
all the cursed roads that ever disgraced this kingdom in the very 
age of barbarism none ever equalled that from Billericay to the 
' King's Head ' at Tilbury " was the suffering cry of Young in 1769. 
The roads of Herefordshire, says Marshall, twenty years later, were 
" such as you might expect to find in the marshes of Holland or the 
mountains of Switzerland." In Devonshire, which Marshall con- 
sidered to be agriculturally the most benighted district of England, 
there was not in 1750 one single wheeled carriage ; everything was 
carried in sledges or on pack-horses. The latter were still in uni- 
versal use in 1796. Crops were piled between willow " crooks," 
to which the load was bound ; manure was carried in strong panniers, 
or " potts," the bottom of which was a sort of falling door ; sand 
was slung in bags across the wooden pack-saddle. Even where 
efforts were made to improve the highways, the attempt was often 
rendered useless by ignorance of the science of road-making. Some 
roads were convex and barrel-shaped. But the fall from the centre 
of the road to the sides was so rapid that carts could only travel in 
the centre with safety. Many roads were concave, constructed in 
the form of a trough, filled in with sand. In wet weather this 
deposit became porridge. On a road of this formation between 
Woodstock and Oxford, Marshall, in 1789, encountered labourers 
employed in " scooping out the batter." Yet in spite of the diffi- 
culty of communication, distant counties carried on a considerable 
trade in agricultural produce. Thus calves, bred in Northampton- 
shire, were sent to Essex to be reared. The animals travelled in 
carts with their legs tied together, were eight days on the road, 
and during the journey were fed with " gin-balls," i.e. flour and gin 
mixed together. Off the main lines of communication, highways 
were unmetalled tracks, which spread in width as vehicles deviated 
to avoid the ruts of their predecessors. By-roads were often zig- 
zag lanes, engineered on the principle that one good or bad turn 



NEEDS OF A MANUFACTURING POPULATION 205 

deserved another. In narrow ways the bells on the teams were not 
merely ornaments ; they were warnings that the passage was barred 
by the entry of another vehicle. When rural districts were thus 
cut off from one another, their isolation was not only a formidable 
obstacle to agricultural progress, but made a uniform system of 
growing com on every kind of land a practical necessity. Yet 
the days when Gloucester seemed " in the Orcades," and York a 
" Pindarick flight " from London had their advantages. In 1800 
it required fifty-four hours, and favourable circumstances, for " a 
philosopher, six shirts, his genius, and his hat upon it," to reach 
London from DubHn. 

Shut off from neighbours by impassable roads, impeded in their 
access to markets, not ambitious of raising from the soil anj^hing 
beyond their own needs and the satisfaction of the local demand for 
bread, farmers felt no spur to improvement. Hitherto the slow 
mcrease of a rural population was the only effective incentive to 
increased production. But as the eighteenth century drew to its 
close, Watt, Hargreaves, Crompton, Arkwright, and other me- 
chanical geniuses were beginning to change the face of society with ^ 
the swiftness of a revolution. Population was shifting from the 
South to the North, and advancing by leaps and bounds in 
crowded manufacturing towns. Huge markets were springing up 
for agricultural produce. Hitherto there had been few divisions of 
employment because only the simplest implements of production 
were used ; spinners, weavers, and cloth-workers, iron-workers, 
handicraftsmen, had combined much of their special industries with 
the tillage of the soil. But the rapid development of manufacture 
caused its complete separation from agriculture, and the application 
of machinery to manual industries completed the revolution in social ^ 
arrangements. A division of labour became an economic necessity. 
Farmers and manufacturers grew mutually^ dependent. Self- 
sufficing farming was thrown out of date. Like manufacture, agri- 
culture was ceasing to be a domestic industry. Both had to be 
organised on a commercial footing. The problem was, how could 
the inevitable changes be met best and most promptly ? How 
could a country at war with Europe raise the most home-grown food 
for a rapidly growing population, concentrated in the coal and 
iron fields ? How could agriculture supply the demand for artisan 
labour, and yet mcrease its own productiveness ? Arthur Young 
was, at this period of his career, ready with an unhesitating answer 



206 THE DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE 

— large farms, large capital, long leases, and the most improved 
methods of cultivation and stock-breeding. His object was to 
develop to the utmost the resources of the soil. To this end aU 
social considerations must be subordinated. Every obstacle to good 
farming must be swept away — wastes reclaimed, commons divided, 
oj^en-fields converted into individual occupations, antiquated 
methods abandoned, obsolete implements scrapped, improved 
practices uniformly adopted. " Where," he asks, with perfect 
truth, " is the Httle farmer to be found who will cover his whole 
farm with marl at the rate of 100 or 150 tons per acre ? who will 
drain all his land at the expense of £2 or £3 an acre ? who wiU pay 
a heavy price for the manure of towns, and convey it thirty miles 
by land carriage ? who will float his meadows at the expense of 
£5 an acre ? who, to improve the breed of his sheep, will give 1000 
guineas for the use of a single ram for a single season ? who will 
send across the Kingdom to distant provinces for new implements, 
and for men to use them ? who will employ and pay men for residing 
in provinces where practices are found which they want to intro- 
duce into their farms ? " 

Young's spirited crusade against bad or poor farming would 
probably have fallen on deaf ears, if it had not been supported by 
the prospect of financial gain and by the impulse of industrial 
necessities. As he put the case, more produce from the land 
meant higher rents for the landlord, larger incomes for farmers, 
better wages for labourers, more home-grown food for the nation. 
Under the pressure of war-prices and of the gigantic growth of a 
manufacturing population, the system which he advocated made 
rapid progress. Years after his death, it was established with such 
completeness that men forgot not only the existence of any different 
conditions, but even the very name of the most active pioneer of 
the ch-ange. In the agricultural Uterature of the early and middle 
Victorian era, he is almost ignored. The article on EngHsh agri- 
culture in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, for example, devotes only 
a few lines to his career. Recently his memory has been revived 
in England by the rencnal under different circumstances of the 
struggle between large and small farmers. In France, on the other 
hand, where the contest between capitahst farmers and peasant pro- 
prietors was never decisively terminated, the discussion has always 
centred round his name. In the words of Lesage, his latest editor 
and translator, France has made an adopted child of Arthur Young. 



'•FARMER GEORGE" 207 



CHAPTER X. 

LARGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS. 
1780-1813. 

Agricultural enthusiasm at the close of the eighteenth century ; high prices 
of agricultural produce ; the causes of the advance ; increased demand 
and cessation of foreign supplies ; the state of the currency ; rapid advance 
of agriculture on the new lines of capitalist farming ; impulse given to 
enclosing movement and the introduction of improved practices ; Davy's 
Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry ; the work of large landlords : Coke 
of Norfolk. 

The enthusiasm for farming progress, which Arthur Young zeal- 
ously promoted, spread with rapidity. A fashion was created 
which was more lasting, because less artificial and more practical, 
than it had been in the days of Pope. Great landlords took the 
lead in agricultural improvements. Their farming zeal did not 
escape criticism. Dr. Edwards ^ in 1783 expressed a feeling which 
was prevalent two centuries before : " Gentlemen have no right 
to be farmers ; and their entering upon agriculture to follow it as 
a business is j)erhaps a breach of their moral duty," But it was 
now that young men, heirs to landed estates as well as younger 
sons, began to go as pupils to farmers. George III. rejoiced in 
the title of " Farmer George," considered himseK more indebted to 
Arthur Young than to any man in his dominions, carried the last 
volume of the Annals with, him in his travelling carriage, kept his 
model farm at Windsor ,2 formed his flock of merino sheep, and 
experimented in stock-breeding. The Duke of Bedford at Woburn, 
Lord Rockingham at Wentworth, Lord Egremont at Petv>^orth, 
Coke at Holkham, and numerous other landlords, headed the 

^ Plan of an Undertaking for the Improvement of Husbandry etc., by Dr. 
Edwards of Barnard Castle (1783). 

^ The King's Windsor Farm is described by Nathaniel Kent in Hunter's 
Georgical Essays (1803), vol. iv. Essay vii. 



208 LARGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS 

reforming movement. Fox, even in the Louvre, was lost in con- 
sideration whether the weather was favourable to his turnips at 
St. Anne's Hill. Burke experimented in carrots as a field crop 
on his farm at Beaconsfield, though he pointed his sarcasms against 
the Duke of Bedford for his devotion to agriculture. Lord Althorp, 
in the nineteenth century, maintained the traditions of his official 
predecessors. During a serious crisis of affairs, when he was 
Chancellor of the Exchequer, John Grey of Dilston called upon him 
in Downing Street on pohtical business. Lord Althorp's first 
question, eagerly asked, was " Have you been at Wiseton on your 
way up ? Have you seen the cows ? " The enthusiasm for farm- 
ing began to be scientific as well as practical. No new book escaped 
the vigilance of agriculturists. Miss Edgeworth's Essay on Irish 
Bulls (1802) had scarcely been pubhshed a week before it was 
ordered by the secretary of an agricultural society. Nor were the 
clergy less zealous. An archdeacon, finding a churchyard culti- 
vated for turnips, rebuked the rector with the remark, " This must 
not occur again." The reply, " Oh no, Mr. Archdeacon, it will be 
barley next year," shows that, whatever were the shortcomings of 
the Church, the eighteenth century clergy were at least devoted to 
the rotation of crops. 

Every department of agriculture was permeated by a new spirit 
of energy and enterprise. Rents rose, but profits outstripped the 
rise. New crops were cultivated ; swedes, mangel-wurzel, kohl 
rabi, prickly comfrey were readily adopted by a new race of agri- 
culturists. Breeders spent capital freely in improving live-stock. 
New implements were introduced. The economy and handiness of 
ploughs hke the Norfolk, or the Rotherham ploughs as improved by 
James Small of Blackadder Mount, were gradually recognised, and 
the cumbrous mediaeval instruments with their extravagant teams 
superseded. Meikle's threshing machine (1784) began to drive 
out the flail by its economy of human labour. Numerous patents 
were taken out between 1788 and 1816 for drills, reaping, mowing, 
haymaking, and winnowing machines, as well as for horse-rakes, 
scarifiers, chaff-cutters, turnip-sheers, and other mechanical aids to 
agriculture. In the northern counties iron gates and fences began 
to be used. The uniformity of weights and measures ^ was eagerly 

^ Under the Act of Union with Scotland (clause 17) it had been provided 
that the same weights and measures which were estabhshed in England 
should be used throughout the United Kingdom. But the clause remained 



LOCAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETIES 209 

discussed and recommended. Cattle-shows, wool-fairs, ploughing- 
matches were held in various parts of the country. Counties, like 
Durham, Northumberland, Cheshire, and Leicestershire, started 
experimental farms. The short-lived Society of " Improvers in 
the Ivnowledge of Agriculture " had been formed in 1723. The 
Society for the " Encouragement of Ai'ts, Manufactures and Com- 
merce " was instituted in London in 1754. Other associations, 
more exclusively agricultural, speedily followed. The Bath and 
West of England Society was founded in 1777, the Highland Society 
in 1784, the Smithfield Club in 1798. The creation of the Board of 
Agriculture in 1793 has been already mentioned. The Farmers' 
Club was established in 1793. The first number of the Farmer's 
Magazine, which appeared in January, 1800, rapidly passed through 
five editions. Provincial societies multiphed. At Lewes, in 1772, 
Lord Sheffield had established a Society for the " Encouragement 
of Agriculture, Manufacture and Industry " ; but it does not seem 
to have survived the war with France and the United States. Few 
counties were without their organisations for the promotion of 
agricultural improvement. One of the first was estabhshed at 
Odiham in Hampshire. Kent had its agricultural society at 
Canterbury (1793) and the Kentish Society at Maidstone. In 
CornwaU (1793), Berkshii'e (1794), Shropshire (1790), at Shifnal and 
at Draji^on in Leicestershire (1794), in Herefordshire (1797), pro- 
vincial societies were founded. The West Riding of Yorkshire had 
its society at Sheffield, Lancashire at Manchester, Worcestershire 
at Evesham (1792), Huntingdonshire at Kimbolton. In Northamp- 
tonshire similar associations were formed at Peterborough, Welling- 
borough and Lamport. The list might be enlarged. But, though 
many of these societies were short-lived, their foundation illustrates 
the new spirit which animated farming at the close of the eighteenth 
century. 

a dead letter. The establishment of uniformity was difficult. In 1758 a 
Parliamentary Committee reported that there were in use in England four 
different legal measures of capacity, the respective quantities being in the 
case of the bushel 2124, 2150, 2168, and 2240 cubic inches. The widest 
differences existed between the weights and measures of the same county. 
Thus in Cornwall, for instance, wheat was sold either by the double Win- 
chester of 16 gallons or the treble Winchester of 24 gallons ; oats were sold 
in the eastern district by the hogshead of 9 W^inchesters, in the west by a 
double Winchester of 17 gallons ; a bushel of seed-wheat bought from a 
western farmer ran short of the eastern measure by between one and two 
gallons. Butter was sold at 18 oz. to the pound. The customary perch was 
18 feet in length instead of the statutory length of 16^ feet. 

O 



210 LARGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS 

The period from 1780 to 1813 was one of exceptional activity 
in agricultural progress. Apart from the flowing tide of enthusiasm, 
landlords and farmers were spurred to fresh exertions and a great 
outlay of capital and labour by the large returns on their expendi- 
ture. All over the country new facihties of transport and com- 
munication began to bring markets to the gates of farmers ; new 
tracts of land were reclaimed ; open arable farms and pasture 
commons were broken up, enclosed, and brought into more pro- 
fitable cultivation ; vast sums of money were spent on buildings 
and improvement. In spite of increased production, prices rose 
higher and higher, and carried rents with them. " Corn," says 
Ricardo, " is not high because a rent is paid ; but a rent is paid 
because com is high." In certain circumstances — if the State is 
landlord, or if landowners could combine for the purpose — rents 
might raise prices. But the general truth of Ricardo's view was 
illustrated during the French War. From 1790 to 1813, rents rose 
with the rise in prices, until over a great part of Great Britain they- 
were probably doubled. Even the larger yield from the land 
under improved methods of cultivation did not cheapen produce, 
reduce prices, and so cause lower rents. On the contrary, prices 
were not only mamtained, but continued to rise. 

This continuously upward tendency in prices was unprecedented. 
It cannot be attributed to the operation of the Corn Laws.^ Down 
to 1815 that legislation had scarcely affected prices at aU, and 
therefore could not influence rents. The rise was rather due to a 
variety of causes, some of which were exceptional and temporary. 
A series of unprosperous seasons prevailed over the whole available 
corn-area of Northern Europe. In England deficient harvests, 
though the shortage was to some extent mitigated by the increased 
breadth under corn, reduced the home supply at a time when the 
growth of an artisan population mcreased the demand. The country 
throughout these years either stood, or thought that it stood, on 
the verge of famine. Prices were raised by panic-stricken com- 
petition. As the area of the war extended, foreign supphes became 
less and less available. The enormous increase m the war-charges 
for freight and insurance made Great Britain more and more 
dependent on her own produce. Necessity compelled the full 
development of her existing resources, as well as the resort to 
inferior land. Larger supphes of home-grown corn could only be 

^ See chapter xii. 



HIGH PRICES DURING THE FRENCH^WARS 211 

obtained either by improved methods of cultivation or by bringing 
untilled land under the plough. The one method powerfully 
stimulated the progress of agriculture, which may be summed up 
in increasing the yield and lowering the cost of production ; the 
other was the valid justification of the rapid enclosure of wastes, 
open-fields, and commons. Much of the land that now was sown 
with corn could only be tilled at a profit when prices were high, 
because the outlay on its tillage was greater, and the return from 
its cultivation was less, than on ordinary land. Yet, as prices then 
stood, even this inferior soil was able to bear a rent, and by each 
step towards the margin of cultivation, the rental value of land 
of better quahty was enhanced. Thus Napoleon proved to be 
the Triptolemus or patron saint not only of farmers but of land- 
lords. 

Another cause of the high prices of the time was the state of the 
currency. When gold is cheap, commodities are dear. Any great 
increase in the production of gold for a time raises prices ; the 
sovereign becomes of less relative value ; it buys less than before, 
and more gold has to be paid for the same quantity. But this 
direct effect of gold discoveries was not then in operation ; it had 
spent its force, and at the close of the eighteenth centur}^ did not 
materially affect prices. Similar results were, however, produced 
by the immense extension of that system of deferred payment 
which is called credit. Paper money was issued in excessive 
quantities, not only by the Bank of England but by the private 
banks all over the country. A new medium of exchange was 
created. This addition to the circulating medium raised prices in 
the same kind of way as an actual addition to the quantity of coin. 
But there was this important difference. Paper money is only a 
promise to pay ; it is only representative monej^, and, unless it 
is convertible into gold, the credit which it creates is fictitious and 
may be excessive. The immense development of manufacturing 
industries and of the canal system, in the years 1785-92, required 
increased facilities for carrying on commercial transactions. But 
bankers, in their eagerness to create business, made advances on 
insufficient or inconvertible securities, discounted bills \vithout 
regard to the actual value of the commodities on which the trans- 
actions were based, and issued notes far beyond the amount which 
their actual funds justified. In 1793 came the first crash. The 
Bank of England, warned by the fall of the exchanges and the 



212 LAEGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS 

outflow of gold, restricted their issue of notes. A panic followed. 
Out of 350 country banks in England and Wales, more than 100 
stopped payment ; their promises to pay Avere repudiated ; and 
their paper was destroyed at the expense of the holder. The ruin 
and the loss of confidence were widespread ; those who escaped 
the crash hoarded their money instead of making investments in 
mercantile undertakings. But the destruction of so much paper 
temporarily restored the proportion between the gold in the country 
and the paper by which it was represented. 

In 1797 a second crisis occurred. Alarmed at a prospect of 
invasion, country depositors crowded to withdraw deposits and 
realise their property. There were runs on the country banks, and 
such heavy demands for their support were made on the Bank of 
England that, on Saturday, February 25, 1797, the stock of coin 
and buUion had fallen to under £1,300,000, with every prospect of 
a renewal and an increase of the run on the following Monday. On 
Sunday, February 26, an Order of Council suspended pajonents in 
cash until Parliament could consider the situation. The merchants 
of London came to the rescue of the bank. They guaranteed the 
payment of its notes in gold ; the national credit was saved, and 
the worst of the threatened crisis was averted. But the failures 
of country banks were again numerous. Once more the same 
process was repeated. Paper money in large quantities was 
destroyed at the cost of its holders, and the balance between the 
promise and the abihtj^ to pay was again readjusted. The experi- 
ence was not lost on agriculturists, Avho found that their land was 
not only the most remunerative but the safest investment. 

Under the Bank Restriction Act of 1797, the Bank of England 
suspended payment in coin. In other words a paper currency was 
created which was not convertible into gold. The Act was origin- 
ally a temporary expedient. But it was not tiU 1821 that the 
bank completely resumed payment in specie. No doubt the 
effect of the Act was to aggravate the tendency of prices to rise. 
Yet the measure was probably justified by the exceptional circum- 
stances of the war and of trade. It supphed the Government with 
gold for the expenses of our own expeditionary forces, as weU as 
for the payment of subsidies to our alhes. It also enabled the 
country to carry on the one-sided system of trade to which we 
were gradually reduced by the Continental blockade. Our exports 
of manufactured goods were excluded from European ports. Con- 



FINANCIAL CRISES 213 

sequently the materials which we imported were paid for in cash 
instead of in goods, and the vessels which conveyed them to our 
ports returned in ballast. There was thus a constant drain of gold 
from the country. So long as the power to issue inconvertible 
notes was sparingly used, the paper currency maintained its nominal 
value. But from 1808 onwards such large quantities of paper were 
issued, not only by the Bank of England but by country banks, 
that it rapidly depreciated as compared with gold. It is probable 
that from 1811 to 1813 one-fifth of the enormous prices of agri- 
cultural produce were due to the disordered state of the currency. 
In 1814, owing partly to the abundant harvest of the previous 
year, partly to the collapse of the Continental blockade, prices 
rapidly fell. A financial crash followed which caused even more 
widespread ruin in country districts than the paroxysm of 1793. 
Of the country banks, 240 stopped payment, and 89 became bank- 
rupt. The result was a wholesale destruction of bank-paper, the 
reduction of thousands of famihes from wealth to destitution, and 
the gradual restoration of the equiUbrium of the currency. 

The seasons, the war, the growth of population, the disorders of 
the currency, combined to raise and maintain at a high level the 
prices of agricultural produce in Great Britain. At the same 
time the prohibitive cost of transport prevented such foreign sup- 
plies as were then available from reducing the prices of home-grown 
corn. Circumstances thus gave British agriculturists a monopoly, 
which, after 1815, they endeavoured to preserve by legislation. 
Land was not only a most profitable investment, but the fate of 
speculators had again and again convinced both landlords and 
tenants that land was the safest bank. Thus business caution, as 
well as business enterprise, prompted the outlay of capital on agri- 
cultural improvement. Economic ideas pointed in the same direc- 
tion. The doctrine of John Locke,^ that high rents were a symptom 
of prosperity stiU prevailed among politicians. It was also main- 
tained that high rents were a necessary spur to agricultural progress. 
So long as land remained cheap, farmers rested satisfied with 
antiquated practices ; the dearer the land, the more energetic and 
enterprising they necessarily became. Young went so far as to 
say that the spendthrift, who frequented London club-houses and 

^ " An infallible sign of your decay of wealth is the falling of rents, and the 
raising of them would be worth the nation's care " (Works, ed. 1823, vol. v. 
p. 69). 



214 LARGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS 

raised rents to pay his debts of honour, was a greater benefactor 
to agriculture than the stay-at-home squire who Hved frugally 
in order to keep within his ancestral income. No economist of the 
day had conceived any other method of satisfying the wants of a 
growing population except by improving the existing practices of 
farmers or bringing fresh tracts of land under the plough. Advanced 
Free Traders like Porter ^ never imagined that a progressive country 
could become dependent on foreign nations for its daily food. It 
was to the continuous improvement in agricultural methods that 
he looked for the means of suppl3dng a population, which, he cal- 
culated, would, at the end of the nineteenth century, exceed 40 
miUions. Nor did he entertain any doubt that, by the progress 
of skill and enterprise, the quantity raised in 1840 could be increased 
by the requisite 150 per cent. 

Encouraged by high profits, approved by economists, justified 
by necessity, agriculture advanced rapidly on the new fines of 
large farms and large capital. The change was one side of a wider 
movement. In the infancy of agriculture and of trade, self- 
supporting associations had been formed for mutual defence and 
protection. Manorial organisations fike trade guilds had begun to 
break up, when the central power was firmly established. Now, 
once more, agriculture and manufacture were simultaneously 
reorganised. Division of labour had become a necessity. Domestic 
handicrafts were gathered into populous manufacturing centres, 
which were dependent for food on the labour of agriculturists. 
Farms ceased to be self-sufiicing industries, and became factories 
of beef and mutton. The pressure of these conditions demanded 
the utmost development of the resources of the soil. The cultiva- 
tion of additional land by the most improved methods grew more 
and more necessary. Enclosures went on apace. Yet, even in 
favourable seasons, it was a struggle to keep pace with growing 
needs ; scarcity, if not famine, resulted from deficiency. During 
part of the period, foreign supplies might be rehed on to avert the 
worst. But throughout the Napoleonic wars this resource grew 

^ " To supply the United Kingdom with the single article of wheat would 
call for the employment of more than twice the amount of shipping which 
now annually enters our ports, if indeed it would be possible to procvue the 
grain from other countries in sufficient quantity ; and to bring to oiu" shores 
every article of agricultural produce in the abundance which we now enjoy, 
would probably give constant occupation to the mercantile navy of the whole 
world " {Progress oj the Nation, ed. 1847, p. 136). 



RAPID INCREASE OF ENCLOSURES 215 

yearlj^ more uncertain and more costly. The pace of enclosure 
was immensely accelerated. In the first 33 years of the reign of 
George III., there were 1355 Acts passed ; in the 23 years of the 
wars with France (1793-1815) there were 1934. It is easy to attri- 
bute the great increase of enclosures during this last period solely 
to the greed of landlords, eager to profit by the high prices of 
agricultural produce. That the land would not have been brought 
into cultivation unless it paid to do so, may be admitted. But it 
must in justice be remembered that an addition to the cultivated 
area was, in existing circumstances, one of the two methods, which 
at that time were alone available, of increasing the supply of food, 
averting famine, and reducing prices. Economically, enclosures 
can be justified. But the processes by which they were sometimes 
carried out, were often indefensible, and socially their effects were 
disastrous. On these points more will be said subsequently. Here 
it will be enough to reiterate the statement that enclosure meant 
not merely reclamation of waste ground, but partition of the com- 
mons and extinction of the open-field system. It has been suggested, 
on the authority of passages in his tract on Wastes, that Arthur 
Young learned to deplore his previous crusade against village farms, 
when he saw the effect of enclosures on rural Hfe. What Young 
deplored was the loss of a golden opportunity of attaching land 
to the home of the cottager. But he never faltered in his con- 
viction of the necessity of breaking up the open-fields and 
dividing the commons. In the tract on Wastes he emphatically 
asserts his -wish to see all commons enclosed, and he was too great 
a master of his subject not to know that without pasture the arable 
village farms must inevitably perish. 

The other method of increasing the food supphes of the country 
consisted of agricultural improvements. Here also the preparation 
of the ground involved changes which bore hardly on small occupiers 
of land. The new system of farming required large holdings, to 
which a new class of tenant of superior education and intelhgence 
was attracted. It was on these holdings that capital could be 
expended to the greatest advantage, that meat and corn could be 
grown in the largest quantities, that most use could be made of 
those mechanical aids which cheapened production. Costly im- 
provements could not be carried out by small hand-to-mouth 
occupiers, even if their obstinate adherence to antiquated methods 
would have allowed them to contemplate the possibility of change. 



216 LARGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS 

But this consolidation of holdings threw into the hands of one 
tenant land which had previously been occupied by several. If the 
land M^as laid down to gi'ass, and in the case of heavy land, down 
to 1790, this was the most profitable form of enclosure, — there was 
also a diminution in the demand for labour, and a consequent 
decrease in the population of the village. If, on the other hand, 
the land was cultivated as an arable farm, there was probably a 
greater demand for labour and possibly an increase in the numbers 
of the rural population. Arthur Young in 1801 ^ shows that, out 
of 37 enclosed parishes in an arable county hke Norfolk, population 
had risen in 24, fallen in 8, and remained stationary in 5. It 
camiot therefore be said that either enclosures, or the consohdation 
of holdings, necessarily depopulated country villages. Whether 
this result followed, or did not follow, depended on the use to which 
the land \\as put, though even on arable farms the gradual intro- 
duction of machinery, at present limited to the threshing machine, 
tended to diminish the demand for labour. 

If the country was to be fed, more scientific methods of farming 
were necessary. The need was pressing, and both enclosures and 
the consohdation of large farms prepared the way for a new stage 
of agricultural progress. Hitherto bucolic hfe had been the pastime 
of a fashionable world, the relaxation of statesmen, the artificial 
inspiration of poets. But farmers had neither asked nor allowed 
scientific aid. The dawn of a new era, in which practical experience 
was to be combined with scientific knowledge, was marked by the 
lectures of Humphry Davy in 1803. In 1757 Francis Home^ 
had insisted on the dependence of agriculture on " Ch;yTnistry." 
Without a knowledge of that science, he said, agriculture could not 
be reduced to principles. In 1802 the first steps were taken towards 
this end. The Board of Agriculture arranged a series of lectures on 
" The Connection of Chemistry with Vegetable Physiology," to be 
deHvered by Davy, then a young man of twenty-three, and recently 
(July, 1801) appointed Assistant Professor of Chemistry at the 
Royal Institution of Great Britain. He had already made his 
mark as the most briUiant lecturer of the day, attracting round him 
by his scientific use of the imagination such men as Dr. Parr and 

^ Inquiry into the Propriety of applying Wastes to the Better Maintenance 
and Support of the Poor. 

* The Principles of Agriculture and Vegetation, by Francis Home, M.D., 
1757. 



SIR HUMPHRY DAVY 217 

S. T. Coleridge, and the talent, rank, and fashion of London, women 
as well as men. His six lectures on agricultural chemistry, com- 
mencing May 10, 1803, A\'ere delivered before the Board of Agri- 
culture. So great was their success that he was appointed Professor 
of Chemistry to the Board, and in that capacity gave courses of 
lectures during the ten follo\\ing years. In 1813 the results of his 
researches were pubhshed in his Elements of Agricultural Chemistry. 
The volume is now out-of-date, though the lecture on " Soils and 
their Analyses," in spite of the progress of geological science and 
the adoption of new classifications, remains of permanent interest. 
Many passages that were then hstened to as novelties are now com- 
monplaces ; others, especially those on manures, have been com- 
pletely superseded by the advance of knowledge. But if the book 
has ceased to be a practical guide, it remains a historical landmark, 
and something more. It is the foundation-stone on which the 
science of agricultural chemistry has been reared, and its author 
was the direct ancestor of Liebig, Lawes, and Gilbert, to whose 
labours, in the field which Davy first explored, modern agriculture 
is at every turn so deeply indebted. It was Davy's work which 
inspired the choice by the Royal Agricultural Society (founded in 
1838) of its motto " Practice with Science." 

In Thomas Coke of Norfolk ^ the new system of large f armis and 
large capital found their most celebrated champion. In 1776, at 
the age of twenty-two, he came into his estate with " the King of 
Denmark " as "his nearest neighbour." Wealthy, devoted to 
field sports, and alread}^ Member of Parhament for Norfolk, it 
seemed improbable that he would find time for farmmg. But as 
an ardent Whig and a prominent supporter of Fox in the House of 
Commons, he was excluded by his politics from court life or pohtical 
ofiice. In 1778 the refusal of two tenants to accept leases at an 
increased rent threw a quantity of land on his hands. He deter- 
mined to farm the land himself. From that time tiU his death in 
1842, he stood at the head of the new agricultural movement. On 
his own estates his energy was richly rewarded. Dr. Rigby,^ 
writing in 1816, states that the annual rental of Holkham rose from 
£2,200 in 1776 to £20,000 in 1816. 

When Coke took his land in hand, not an acre of wheat was 

1 Coke of Norfolk and Ma Friends, by A. M. W. Stirling, 2 vols. 1910. 
* The Pamphleteer, vol. xiii. pp. 469-70 ; Holkham and its Agriculture, 3rd 
edition, 1818, pp. 25, 28. 



218 LARGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS 

to be seen from Holkham to Ljmn. The thin sandy soil produced 
but a scanty jaeld of rye. Naturally wanting in richness, it was 
still further impoverished by a barbarous system of cropping. No 
manure was purchased ; a few Norfolk sheep with backs like 
rabbits, and, here and there, a few half-starved milch coavs were 
the only hve-stock ; the httle muck that was produced was miser- 
ably poor. Coke determined to grow wheat. He marled and 
clayed the land, purchased large quantities of manure, drilled his 
wheat and turnips, grew sainfoin and clover, trebled his Hve-stock. 
On the hght drifty land in his neighbourhood the Flemish maxim 
held good : " Point de fourrage, point de bestiaux ; sans bestiaux, 
aucun engrais ; sans engrais, nulle recolte." " No keep, no Hve- 
stock ; without stock, no manure ; without manure, no crops." 
It is, in fact, the Norfolk proverb, " Muck is the mother of money." 
In the last quarter of the eighteenth century the value of bones 
as fertiHsers was reaHsed.^ The discovery has been attributed to 
a Yorkshire fox-hunter who was cleaning out his kennels ; others 
assign it to farmers in the neighbourhood of Sheffield, where refuse 
heaps were formed of the bones which were not available for the 
handles of cutlery. By the use of the new discovery Coke profited 
largely. He also introduced into the county the use of artificial 
foods like oil-cake, which, with roots, enabled Norfolk farms to 
carry increased stock. Lender his example and advice stall-feeding 
was extensively practised. On BuUock's Hill near Norwich, during 
the great fair of St. Faith's, drovers assembled from all parts of the 
country, especially from Scotland, with herds of half-fed beasts 
Avhich were bought up by Norfolk farmers to be fattened for London 
markets. The grass lands, on which the beef and mutton of our 
ancestors were raised, were deserted for the sands of the eastern 
counties, from which under the nev>- farming practice, the metro- 
poHs drew its meat suppHes. Numbers of animals fattened on 
nutritious food gave farmers the command of the richest manure, 
fertiHsed their land, and enabled them not only to grow wheat 
but to verify the maxim " never to soav a crop unless there is con- 
dition to grow it luxuriantly." 

In nine years Coke had succeeded in growing good crops of wheat 
on the land which he farmed himself. He next set himseK to 
improve the- live-stock. After patient trial of other breeds, and 

^ Bones uere ground at a mill in Lancashire in 1794 by a local fanner who 
sold his surplus to his neighbours. 



COKE OF NORFOLK 219 

especially of Shorthorns among cattle and of the New Leicesters 
and Merinos among sheep, he adopted Devons and Southdowns. 
His efforts were not confined to the home-farm. Early and late 
he worked in his smock-frock, assisting tenants to improve their 
flocks and herds. Grass lands, till he gave them his attention, 
were wholly neglected in the district. If meadow or pasture 
wanted renewal, or arable land was to be laid down in grass, farmers 
either allowed it to tumble down, or threw indiscriminately on 
the ground a quantity of seed drawn at haphazard from their own 
or their neighbour's ricks, containing as much rank weed as nutri- 
tious herbage. It was a mere chance whether the sour or the sweet 
grasses were aided in their struggle for existence. Stilling- 
fleet, in 1760, had distinguished the good and bad herbage by 
excellent illustrations of the kinds best calculated to produce the 
richest hay and sweetest pasture. The Society of Arts, Manu- 
facture and Commerce had offered premiums for the best collections 
of the best kinds, and in Edinburgh the Lawsons were experimenting 
on grasses. But Coke was the first landlord who appreciated the 
value of the distinctions by applying them to his own land. In 
May and June, when the grasses were in bloom, he gave his simple 
botanical lessons to the children of his tenantry, who scoured the 
country to procure his stocks of seed. 

Impressed with the community of interest among owners, occu- 
piers, and labourers. Coke stimulated the enterprise of his tenants, 
encouraged them to put more money and more labour into the land, 
and assisted them to take advantage of every new invention and 
discovery. Experiments with drill husbandry on 3,000 acres of 
com land convinced him of its value in economy of time, in saving 
of seed, in securing an equal depth of sowing, and in facihtating the 
cleaning of the land. He calculated that he saved in seed a bushel 
and a half per acre, and increased the yield per acre by twelve 
bushels. As with the drill, so with other innovations. He tested 
every novelty himself, and offered to his neighbours only the results 
of his own successful experience. It was thus that the practice of 
drilling turnips and wheat, and the value of sainfoin, swedes, mangel- 
wurzel, and potatoes were forced on the notice of Norfolk farmers. 
His farm -buildings, dwelling-houses, and cottages were models to 
other landlords. On them he spared no reasonable expense. 
They cost him, during his tenure of the property, more than half 
a miUion of money. By offering long leases of twenty-one years, 



220 LARGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS 

he guaranteed to improving farmers a return for their energy and 
outlay. Two years before the expiration of a lease, the tenant 
was informed of the new rent proposed, and offered a renewal. 
" My best bank," said one of his farmers, " is my land." At the 
same time he guarded against the mischief of a long unrestricted 
tenancy by covenants regulating the course of high-class cultivation. 
Though management clauses were then comparatively unknown 
in Enghsh leases, his farms commanded competition among 
the pick of EngHsh farmers. " Live and let hve " was not 
only a toast at the Holkham sheep -shearmgs, but a rule in 
the control of the Holkham estate. Cobbett was not prejudiced 
in favour of landlords. Yet even he was compelled to admit 
the benefits which Coke's tenants derived from his paternal 
rule. " Every one," he writes in 1821, " made use of the 
expressions towards him which affectionate children use towards 
their parents." 

One great obstacle to the improvement of Norfolk farming 
remained. Farmers of the eighteenth century lived, thought, and 
farmed hke farmers of the thirteenth century. Wheat instead of 
rye might be grown with success ; turnips, if drilled, were more 
easily hoed and yielded a heavier crop than those which were sown 
broadcast ; marl and clay might helf) to consolidate drifting soil. 
But the neighbouring farmers were suspicious of new methods, and 
distrusted a young man who disobeyed the saws and maxims of 
their forefathers. Politics ran so high that Coke's Southdowns 
were denounced as " Whiggish sheep." It was nine 3^ears before 
he found anyone to imitate him in growing wheat. " It might be 
good for Mr. Coke ; but it was not good enough for them." As 
to potatoes, the best they would say was, that " perhaps they 
wouldn't poison the pigs." Even those who had given up broad- 
cast sowing still preferred the dibber to the drill. Sixteen years 
passed before the implement was adopted. Coke himself calculated 
that his improvements travelled at the rate of a mile a year. The 
Holkham sheep-shearings_did much by ocular demonstration to 
break down traditions and prejudices. These meetings originated 
in 1778, in Coke's own ignorance of farming matters ; small parties 
of farmers were annually invited to discuss agricultural topics at 
his house and aid him with their practical advice. Before many 
years had passed, the gatherings had grown larger, and Coke had 
become a teacher as well as a learner. The Holkham sheep- 



THE HOLKHAM SHEEP-SHEARINGS 221 

shearing in June, 1806 is described in the Farmer'' s Magazine ^ in 
the stilted language of the day, as " the happy resort of the most 
distinguished patrons and amateurs of Georgic employments." In 
1818 open house was kept at Holkham for a week ; hundreds of 
persons assembled from all parts of Great Britain, the Continent, 
and America. The mornings were spent in inspecting the land and 
the stock ; at three o'clock, six hundred persons sate down to din- 
ner ; the rest of each day was spent in discussion, toasts, and 
speeches. The Emperor of Russia sent a special representative, 
and among the learners was Erskine, who abandoned the study of 
Coke at Westminster Hall to gather the wisdom of his namesake 
at Holkham. At the sheep-shearings, year after year, were col- 
lected practical and theoretical agriculturists, farmers from every 
district, breeders of every kind of stock, who compared notes and 
exchanged experiences. In many other parts of England similar 
meetings were held by great landlords, hke the Duke of Bedford at 
Wobum,2 or Lord Egremont at Petworth, who in their own localities 
were carrjdng on the same work as Coke. 

At Holkham and Woburn sheep-shearings, both landlords and 
farmers were learners ; both required to be educated in the new 
principles of their altered business. It was bj^ no means uncommon 
to find landlords who prevented progress by refusing to let land 
except at will, or bound their tenants by restrictive covenants to 
follow obsolete practices. There was, moreover, a tendency among 
the land-owning class to expect from rent-paying tenants a greater 
outlay on the land than a farmer's capital could bear or an occupier 
was justified in making. The question of improvements had not 
yet assumed the complicated forms which have developed under 
modern agricultural methods. But it had already been raised in 
the simpler shape. The Uability for improvements of a permanent 
character required to be defined ; no distinction was yet drawTi 
between changes which added some lasting benefit to the holding 
and those whose effects were exhausted within the hmits of a brief 
occupation. Expenditure which might legitimately be borne by 
landlords was often demanded from tenants at will or even from year 
to year. Thousands of acres still lay unproductive because owners 
looked to occupiers for the reclamation of waste, the drainage of 

^ Farmer's Magazine, August, 1806. 

- For a description of a Woburn sheep-shearing, or " this truly rational 
Agricultural Fete," see Farmer's Magazine for July, 1800. 



222 LARGE FARMS AND CAPITALIST FARMERS 

swamps, or an embankment against floods. It was one of the 
lessons which were taught by the agricultural depression after the 
peace of 1815 that landowners must find the money for lasting 
improvements effected on their property. 

That farmers should have reahsed the possibility of improving 
traditional practices was a great step in advance. The new race 
of men, who were beginning to occupy land, were better educated, 
commanded more capital, were more open to new ideas and more 
enterprising than their predecessors. Their holdings were larger, 
and offered greater scope for energy and experiment. The Reporters 
to the Board of Agriculture on Northumberland (1805) lay stress 
on the size of the farms, and on the spirit of enterprise and in 
dependence Avhich now animated the tenants. " Scarcely a year 
passes without some of them making extensive tours for the sole 
purpose of examining modes of culture, of purchasing or hiring the 
most improved breeds of stock, and seeing the operations of new- 
invented and most useful implements." The Reporter on Middle- 
sex (1798) emphasises the stagnation of farming among small 
occupiers. "It is rather the larger farmers and yeomen, or men 
who occupy their own land, that mostly introduce improvements 
in the practice of agriculture, and that uniformly grow much 
greater crops of corn, and produce more beef and mutton per acre 
than others of a smaller capital." The Oxfordshire Reporter (1809) 
says : "If you go into Banbury market next Thursday, you may 
distinguish the farmers from enclosures from those from open 
fields ; quite a different sort of men ; the farmers as much changed 
as their husbandry — quite new men, in point of knowledge and 
ideas." Elsewhere in the same Report, — it is Arthur Young who 
\vTites, — occurs the following passage : The Oxfordshire farmers 
" are now in the period of a great change in their ideas, knowledge, 
practice, and other circumstances. Enclosing to a greater pro- 
portional amount than in almost any other county in the kingdom, 
has changed the men as much as it has improved the countrj'^ ; they 
are now in the ebulHtion of this change ; a vast amelioration has 
been wrought, and is working ; and a great deal of ignorance and 
barbarity remains. The Goths and Vandals of open-fields touch 
the civilisation of enclosures. Men have been taught to think, 
and till that moment arrives, nothing can be done effectively. 
When I passed from the conversation of the farmers I was recom- 
mended to call on, to that of men whom chance threw in ray way, 



THE NEW RACE OF TENANTS 223 

I seemed to have lost a century in time, or to have moved a thousand 
miles in a day. Liberal communication, the result of enlarged ideas, 
was contrasted with a dark ignorance under the covert of mse 
suspicions ; a sullen reserve lest landlords should be rendered too 
knowing, and false information given under the hope that it 
might deceive, were in such opposition, that it was easy to see 
the change, however it might work, had not done its business. The 
old open-field school must die off before new ideas can become 
generally rooted." In Lincolnshire, in the early years of George 
III., Arthur Young had found few points in the management of 
arable land which did not merit condemnation. The progress, 
which he noted as Reporter to the Board of Agriculture in 1799, 
was largely due to the changed character of the farmers. " I have 
not," he says, " seen a set more liberal in any part of the kingdom. 
Industrious, active, enlightened, free from all foohsh and expensive 
show, . , . they live comfortably and hospitably, as good farmers 
ought to live ; and in my opinion are remarkably void of those 
rooted prejudices which sometimes are reasonably objected to this 
race of men. I met with many \^ho had mounted their nags, and 
quitted their homes purposely to examine other parts of the king- 
dom ; had done it with enlarged views, and to the benefit of their 
own cultivation." 



CHAPTER XL 

OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

(1793-1815). 

Condition of open-field arable land and pasture commons as described by the 
Reporters to the Board of Agriculture, 1793-1815; (1) The North and 
North- Western District ; (2) West Midland and South- Western District ; 
(3) South-Eastem and Midland District ; (4) Eastern and North-Eastem 
District ; (5) the Fens ; the cumulative effect of the evidence ; procedxire 
under private Enclosure Acts ; its defects and cost ; the General enclosure 
Act of 1801 ; the Inclosure Commissioners ; the new Board of Agricultm-e. 

It might perhaps be supposed that in 1793 the agricultural defects 
of the ancient system of open arable fields and common pasture 
had been remedied by experience ; that open-field farmers had 
shared in the general progress of farming ; that time alone was 
needed to raise them to the higher level of an improved standard ; 
that, therefore, enclosures had ceased to be an economic necessity. 
In 1773, an important Act of ParMament had been passed,^ which 
attempted to help open-field farmers in adapting their inconvenient 
system of occupation to the improved practices of recent agriculture. 
Three-fourths of the partners in village-farms were empowered, 
with the consent of the landowner and the titheowner, to appoint 
field-reeves, and through them to regulate and improve the cultiva- 
tion of the open arable fields. But an}^ arrangement made under 
these powers was only to last six years, and, partly for this reason, 
the Act seems to have been from the first almost a dead letter. 
At Hunmanby, on the wolds of the East Riding of Yorkshire,^ 
the provisions of the Act were certainh^ put in force, and it is 

1 13 Geo. III. c. 81. 

* Isaac Leatham's General View of the Agriculture of the East Riding of York- 
shire (1794), p. 45. Thomas Stone, in his Suggestions for Rendering the In- 
closure of Common Fields and WaMe Lands a source of Population and Riches 
(1787), says that he knew of no instance in which the Act had been put in 
force. 



CONDITION OF OPEN-FIELDS AND QOMMONS 225 

possible that it was also applied at Wilburton in Cambridgeshire. 
With these exceptions, httle, if any, use seems to have been made 
of a well-intentioned piece of legislation. 

Small progress had in fact been made among the cultivators of 
open-fields. Here and there, the new spirit of agricultural enter- 
prise had influenced the occupiers of village farms. In rare instances 
improved practices were introduced. But the demand for increased 
food supplies had become, as our ancestors were experiencing, too 
pressing for delay. Any continuous series of adverse seasons created 
a real scarcity of bread, and more than once during the Napoleonic 
wars, famine was at the door. Unless food could be produced at 
home, it could not be obtained elsewhere. An extension of the 
cultivated area was the quickest means of adding to production. 
Agriculturists at the close of the eighteenth century were convinced 
that no adequate increase in the produce of the soil could be obtained, 
unless open-field farms were broken up, and the commons brought 
into more profitable cultivation. If they were right in that behef, 
the great agricultural change was justified, which estabhshed the 
uniform system with which we are famihar to-day. The point is 
one of the greatest importance. The uncritical praises lavished 
by sixteenth and seventeenth century travellers on open-field 
farming are of little value because they had no higher standard 
with which to compare its results. Such a standard had now been 
to some extent created. It may therefore be useful to illustrate, 
from the contemporary records supphed by the Reports to the 
Board of Agriculture,^ the condition of open arable land and of 
pasture-commons in the years 1793-1815. The material is arranged 
according to the four districts into which, for statistical purposes, 
the English counties are usually divided. The cumulative force of 
the evidence is great. But some of it relates to wastes which were 
not attached to village farms, although common of pasture and 
fuel was often claimed over the area by the inhabitants of the 
neighbourhood. As to the rehabihty of the whole evidence, it 

1 The Reports to the Board are extant in two forms. The quarto editions 
■were drafts, intended for private circulation and for correction by practical 
agricultvirists belonging to the district under survey. They all belong to 
the years n93-94:-95. The octavo editions are the Reports in their final 
form. They were published at various dates, ranging from 1795 in the case 
of Holt's Lancashire, to 1815 when Quayle's Channel Islands was issued. In 
some cases the Reports are practically the same in their draft and final forms. 
Sometimes, on the other hand, they were re-written by other Reporters with 
scarcely any reference to the original Survey. 

P 



226 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

would be only fair to add that the Reporters were not likely to be 
prejudiced in favour of open-field farms or unappropriated commons. 
1 . In the North and North- Western District, enclosure had gone on 
apace since 1770. In Northumberland, for instance (1805), very 
little common land was left which could be made profitable under 
the plough. 120,000 acres were said to have been enclosed " in 
the last thirty years." ^ In Durham, it is stated that " the lands,, 
or common fields of townships, were for the most part inclosed 
soon after the Restoration." The Reporter laments " that in some 
of the rich parts of the county, particularly in the neighbourhood 
of the capital of it, large quantities of land should still lie totally 
deprived of the benefit of cultivation, in commons ; and that 
ancient inclosures, by being subject to the perverse custom of 
intercommon, be prevented from that degree of fertilization, to 
which the easy opportunity of procuring manure, in most cases, 
would certainly soon carry the improvement of them ; in their 
present state, little or no benefit is derived to any person what- 
soever, entitled either to common, or intercommon, from the use 
of them." 2 The waste lands of the West Riding of Yorkshire^ 
are calculated at 265,000 acres capable of cultivation. The Reporter 
proposes to " add to these the common fields which are also exten- 
sive, and susceptible of as much improvement as the wastes." The 
man on inclosed land " has not the vis inertiae of his stupid neighbour 
to contend with him, before he can commence any alteration in his 
management ... he is completely master of his land, which, in 
its open state, is only half his own. This is strongly evident in the 
cultivation of turnips, or other vegetables for the winter consump- 
tion of cattle ; they are constantly cultivated in inclosures, when 
they are never thought of in the open fields in some parts." In 
the North Riding " few open or common fields now remain, nearly 
the whole having long been inclosed." * But on the commons the 
practice of surcharging is said to have increased to "an alarming 
degree." It had become a frequent custom for persons, often 
dwelling in distant townships, to take single fields which were 
entitled to common rights, and stock the commons with an excessive 
quantity of cattle. In Cumberland (1794),^ there were still 150,000 

^ Northumberland, by J. Bailey and G. Culley (3rd edition, 1806), p. 126. 

* Granger's Durham (1794), p. 44. 

•Brown's West Riding of Yorkshire (1799), pp. 131, 133. 

* Tuke's North Riding (1800), pp. 90, 199. 

* Cumberland, by J. Bailey and G. Culley (1794), pp. 202, 215, 236. 



NORTH AND NORTH-WESTERN DISTRICT 227 

acres of improvable common, which were " generally overstocked." 
" No improvement of breed was possible, while a man's ewes mixed 
promiscuously with his neighbour's flocks." There were " few 
commons but have parts which are hable to rot, nor can the sheep 
be prevented from depasturing it." "If any part of the flock 
had the scab or other infectious disease, there was no means of 
preventing it from spreading." A large part of these commons 
was good corn-land ; if enclosed, and part ploughed for grain crops, 
not only would there be an increased supply of com, but, instead 
of " the ill-formed, poor, starved, meagre animals that depasture 
it at present," there might be "an abundant supply of fat mutton 
sent to our big to\vns." In Cheshire (1794),^ there were said to 
be of " common fields, probably not so much as 1000 acres." 
Staffordshire ^ in 1808 contained little more than 1000 acres of open- 
fields, which " are generally imperfectly cultivated, and exhausted 
by hard tillage." Since the reduction of their area, the general 
produce of the county is stated to be greater, the stock better, and 
the rent higher by 5s. an acre. The county was " emerging out of 
barbarism." But, thirty years before, on some of the " best land 
of the county," the rotation had been " (1) fallow ; (2) wheat ; 
(3) barley ; (4) oats ; and often oats repeated, and then left to 
Nature ; the worst lands left to pasture and spontaneous rubbish ; 
turnips and artificial grasses scarcely at all known in farming." 
In Derbyshire ^ (1811), a list of the thirteen open arable fields which 
remained is given. " Many of them," says the Reporter, " must 
remain in their present open, unproductive, and disgraceful state, 
(though principally in the best stratum in the County) " owing to 
the expense of enclosure. There were, however, still thirty-six 
open commons, such as Elmton, with its " deep cart-ruts, and 
every other species of injury and neglect that can, perhaps be 
shown on useful land ; part of it has been ploughed at no distant 
period, as completely exhausted as could be, and then resigned to 
Weeds and Paltry " ; or Hollington, which, " though overgrown 
with Rushes through neglect, is on a rich Red Marl soil " ; or 
Roston, " miserably carted on, cut up, and in want of Draining ; 
in wet seasons it generally rots the sheep depastured on it ; . . . pro- 
bably injurious, rather than beneficial, in its present state, both to 
the Parishioners and the Public." 

1 Wedge's Cheshire (1794), p. 8. » Pitt's Staffordshire (1808), pp. 13, 51, 313. 
8 Farey's Derbyshire (1813), vol. ii. p. 77, 



228 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

2. In the West Midland and South- Western District, Shropshire 
(1794) ^ " does not contain much common field lands, most of these 
having been formerly enclosed, and before acts of parliament for 
that purpose were in use ; but the inconvenience of the property 
being detached and intermixed in small parcels, is severely felt, 
as is also the inconvenience of having the farm buildings in villages." 
There still remained large commons of which the largest were Clun 
Forest and Morfe Common, near Bridgnorth. The Reporter 
strongly advocates their enclosure. " The idea of leaving them in 
their unimproved state, to bear chiefly gorse bushes, and fern, is 
now completely scouted, except by a very few, who have falsely 
conceived that the inclosing of them is an injury to the poor ; but 
if those persons had seen as much of the contrary effects in that 
respect as I have, I am fully persuaded their opposition would 
at once cease. Let those who doubt, go round the commons now 
open, and view the miserable huts, and poor, ill-cultivated, im- 
poverished spots erected, or rather thrown together, and inclosed by 
themselves, for which they pay 6d. or Is. per year, which, by loss 
of time both to the man and his family, affords them a very 
trifle towards their maintenance, yet operates upon their minds 
as a sort of independence ; this idea leads the man to lose many 
days work by which he gets a habit of indolence ; a daughter kept 
at home to milk a poor half -starved cow, who being open to tempta- 
tions, soon turns harlot, and becomes a distressed, ignorant mother, 
instead of making a good useful servant." 

Herefordshire 2 (1794) contained a great number of open-field 
farms, occupying some of " the best land of the county," and 
pursuing the " invariable rotation of (1) fallow, (2) wheat, (3) pease 
or oats, and then fallow again." Speaking of the waste lands at 
the foot of the Black Mountains above the Golden Valley, the 
Reporter says : " I do appeal to such gentlemen as have often 
served on Grand Juries in this county, whether they have not had 
more felons brought before them from that than from any other 
quarter of the county." He attributes this lawlessness to the 
right, which the cottager possessed in virtue of his arable holding, 
of turning out stock on the hills, and to the encouragement which 
this right afforded him of hving by any means other than his 
labour. 

1 Bishton's Shropshire (1794), pp. 8, 24. 

2 Clark's Herefordshire (1794), pp. 69, 28. 



WEST MIDLAND AND SOUTH-WESTERN DISTRICT 229 

Worcestershire ^ (1794) contained from 10,000 to 20,000 acres of 
wastes, " in general depastured by a miserable breed of sheep, 
belonging to the adjoining cottagers and occupiers, placed there 
for the sake of their fleeces, the meat of which seldom reaches the 
market, a third fleece being mostly the last return they Uve to 
make." Yet, adds the Reporter, " most of the common or waste 
land is capable of being converted into tillage of the first quaUty." 
Considerable tracts still lay in open-fields, especially in the neigh- 
bourhood of Bredon, Ripple, and to the east of Worcester. *' The 
advantages from inclosing common fields . . . have been very 
considerable ; . . . the rent has always risen, and mostly in a very 
great proportion ; the increase of produce is very great, the value 
of stock has advanced almost beyond conception ; . . . indeed it 
is in inclosures alone, that any improvement in the Une of breeding 
in general can be made." Speaking of the district towards the 
Gloucestershire border, it is stated that " the lands being in com- 
mon fields, and property much intermixed, there can be of course 
but httle experimental husbandry ; being, by custom, tied down 
to three crops and a fallow. . . . The mixture of property in our 
fields prevents our land being drained, and one negligent farmer, 
from not opening his drains, will frequently flood the lands of ten 
that He above, to the very great loss of his neighbours and com- 
munity at large. Add to this, that although our lands are naturally 
well adapted to the breed of sheep, yet the draining etc. is so little 
attended to in general, that, out of at least 1000 sheep, annually 
pastured in our open fields, not more than forty, on an average, are 
annually drawn out for slaughter, or other uses ; infectious disorders, 
rot, scab, etc. sweep them off, which would not be the case if property 
were separated." Of the pasture commons, it is said that they are 
" overstocked," " produce a beggarly breed of sheep," and " are 
of little or no value." Again, it is stated that, where enclosures 
" have been completed fifteen or twenty years, property is trebled ; 
the lands drained ; and if the land has not been converted into 
pasture, the produce of grain very much increased ; where converted 
into pasture, the stock of sheep and cattle wonderfully improved. 
Where there are large commons, advantages are innumerable, 
to population as well as cultivation, and instead of a horde of 
pilferers, you obtain a skilful race, as weU of mechanics as other 
labourers." 

^ Pomeroy's Worcestershire (1794), pp. 17, 16, App. pp. 2, 3, 5. 



230 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

In Gloucestershire ^ (1794) common fields and common meadows 
still prevailed over extensive districts. Of the Cots wold district 
the Reporter says : " probably no part of the kingdom has been 
more improved within the last forty years than the Cotswold Hills. 
The first inclosures are about that standing ; but the greater part 
are of a later date. Three parishes are now inclosing ; and out of 
about thirteen, which still remain in the common field state, two, 
I understand, are taking the requisite measures for an inclosure : the 
advantages are great, rent more than doubled, the produce of every 
kind proportionably increased." Of the Vale of Gloucester he 
says : "I know one acre which is divided into eight lands, and 
spread over a large common field, so that a man must travel two 
or three miles to visit it all. But though this is a remarkable 
instance of minute division, yet, it takes place to such a degree, as 
very much to impede all the processes of husbandry. But this is 
not the worst ; the lands shooting different ways, some serve as 
headlands to turn on in ploughing others ; and frequently when 
the good manager has sown his corn, and it is come up, his slovenly 
neighbour turns upon it, and cuts up more for him, than his own is 
worth. It likewise makes one occupier subservient to another in 
cropping his land ; and in water furrowing, one sloven may keep 
the water on, and poison the lands of two or three industrious 
neighbours." Lot meadows were numerous in the county, on which 
the herbage was common after hay-making. Several tracts such 
as Corse Lawn, Huntley and Gorsley Commons were practically 
wastes, " not only of very little real utihty, but productive of one 
very great nuisance, that of the erection of cottages by idle and 
dissolute people, sometimes from the neighbourhood, and sometimes 
strangers. The chief building materials are store-poles, stolen from 
the neighbouring woods. These cottages are seldom or never the 
abode of honest industry, but serve for harbour to poachers and 
thieves of all descriptions." In the Vale of Tewkesbury the common 
fields were " very subject to rot. . . . Though it is reckoned they 
(farmers) lose their flocks once in three years on average, there is a 
considerable quantity kept, the farmers being persuaded they could 
not raise corn without them. The arable fields after harvest are 
stocked without stint. When spring seedtime commences, they 
are confined to the fallow quarter of the field, and stinted in pro- 
portion to the properties ; they are folded every night, and kept 
» Turner's Qlouceaterahire (1794), pp. 10, 39, 49. 



GLOUCESTERSHIRE IN 1794 ANrt 1807 231 

so hard, that scarce a blade of grass or even a thistle escapes them ; 
and this management is thought essentially necessary, especially 
on the stiff soils, to keep them in good order, such soils being too 
hard to plough in very dry weather, and, of course, not eligible in 
wet. The grass and weeds, without this expedient, would often 
get so much ahead as not to be afterwards conquered." 

Another agricultural Report on Gloucestershire ^ was presented 
in 1807. The Reporter mentions that, in the reign of George III., 
" more than seventy Acts have passed the ParHament for inclosing 
or laying into severalty." " By these proceedings, the landlord 
and occupier are benefited ; the former in an advance of rent, the 
latter in the increase of crops. On the Cotswolds, many thousand 
acres are brought into cultivation, which before were productive 
of Httle more than furze and a few scanty blades of grass. In the 
Vale, by the inclosure of common fields, lands have been laid 
together, and rescued from the immemorial custom, or routine of 
orops — wheat, beans, and fallow ; and the farmers have found, to 
their great advantage, that clover, vetches and turnips may be 
raised in the fallow year, which was before attended only with 
labour and expense." The Reporter enumerates five advantages 
resulting from enclosure of common field farms : — (1) an increase 
of crops and rent ; (2) the commutation of tithes ; (3) the drainage 
of the land ; (4) the removal of the injury and cause of disputes 
occasioned by turning on the head- and fore-lands of neighbours ; 
(5) the encouragement of population. Of the advantages of enclos- 
ing common pastures or wastes he is equally convinced ; " the 
common or waste lands in the Vale are seldom stinted to a definite 
•quantity of stock in proportion to the number of acres occupied ; 
but the cottager claims by custom to stock equally with the largest 
landholder. It is justly questioned whether any profit accrues to 
■either from the depasturing of sheep, since the waste commons, 
being under no agricultural management, are usually poisoned by 
stagnated water, which corrupts or renders unwholesome the 
herbage, producing rot, and other diseases in the miserable animals 
that are turned adrift to seek their food there." Since 1794 Corse 
C!ommon had been enclosed. From the results the Reporter of 1807 
illustrates some of the benefits of enclosure. " The supposed 
advantages derived by cottagers, in having food for a few sheep and 
geese on a neighbouring common, have usually been brought for- 
1 Rudge's Oloucestershire (1807), pp. 89, 250. 



232 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

ward as objections to the enclosing system. This question was much 
agitated with regard to the inclosure of Corse Chace in this 
county ; but if the present state and appearance of it, since the 
inclosure in 1796, be contrasted to what it was before, or its present 
produce of corn to the sheep that used to run over it, Httle doubt 
can remain of the advantageous result in favour of the community ; 
1350 acres of wet and rushy waste were inclosed, and, in the first 
year of cultivation, the produce was calculated at 20,250 bushels 
of wheat, or of some other crop in equal proportion. If it could 
even be proved that some cottagers were deprived of a few trifling 
advantages, yet the small losses of individuals ought not to stand 
in the way of certain improvements on a large scale." The Reporter 
also quotes two Cotswold parishes, formerly open-fields, but now 
enclosed, as examples of increased produce. In Aldsworth, the 
annual produce of com rose from 720 quarters to 2300 quarters ; 
in Eastington, it increased from 690 quarters to 2100 quarters. 
He adds that enclosures encouraged labour. " Labourers, wha 
formerly were under the necessity of seeking employment in London 
and other places, now find it in sufficient quantity at home in 
their respective parishes." 

In Somersetshire ^ (1797) the two largest districts of waste land 
were the Brent Marsh and King's Sedgmoor. The Reporter 
describes the Brent Marsh as a country which had " been hereto- 
fore much neglected, probably on account of the stagnant waters, 
and unwholesome air. But of late many efforts have been made 
to improve the soil, by draining and enclosing, under a variety of 
Acts of Parhament. The benefit resulting therefrom has been 
astonishing." The total area was over 20,000 acres, of which 
many thousands, " heretofore overflown . . . and of Httle or no 
value, are become fine grazing and dairy lands." Besides the 
general improvement to the health of the district, " scarcely a 
farmer can now be found who does not possess a considerable landed 
property ; and many whose fathers hved in idleness and sloth, on 
the precarious support of a few half -starved cows, or a few hmping 
geese, are now in affluence." On the South Marsh, chiefly formed 
by the river Parret, " near thirty thousand acres of fine land are 
frequently overflown for a considerable time together, rendering 
the herbage unwholesome for the cattle, and the air unhealthy to- 
the inhabitants." An Act of Parhament had been recently (1791) 
1 Billingaley'a Somersetahire (1797), pp. 167-73, 188. 



DORSETSHIRE AND WILTSHIJ^E 233: 

obtained for draining a portion of this fen called King's Sedgmoor, 
containing " about 20,000 acres." 

The Dorsetshire ^ commons in 1794 were " generally overrun 
with furze and ant-hills," worth 8s. an acre unenclosed, but " highly 
proper to cultivate, and, if converted, would be worth from 18s. 
to 20s. an acre." A second Report on Dorsetshire was issued in 
1812.2 I'jje Reporter calls attention to the " half year meads. "^ 
One person has the hay, and another person the " after-shear." 
These meadows were not near commonable fields, and the origin 
of the claim is not clear. Obviously, neither of the persons who 
shared the produce was Hkely to attempt to improve the herbage. 

In Wiltshire ^ (1794) the Reporter fixes on four disadvantages of 
open-field husbandry : (1) the obligation to plough and crop all 
soils alike ; (2) the impossibility of improving sheep ; (3) the difli- 
culty of raising food for their winter keep ; (4) the expense, trouble, 
and excessive number of horses required to cultivate detached 
dispersed lands. On the south-east side of the county lay a con- 
siderable tract of open-fields, and in the north-west, in the 
centre of the richest land of the district, were scattered numerous 
commons. The open arable fields are said to be in "a very 
bad state of husbandry," and the common pastures in a " very 
neglected unimproved " condition. " There are," says the Reporter, 
" numerous instances in which the common-field arable land lets 
for less than half the price of the inclosed arable adjoining ; and the 
commons are very seldom reckoned worth anything, in valuing any 
estate that has a right on them." For the last half -century very 
little land had been enclosed, " although the improvement on the 
lands, heretofore inclosed, has been so very great." " The reason 
seems to have been the very great difficulty and expence of making 
new roads in a country naturally wet and deep, and where the old 
pubHc roads were, till M'ithin the last few years, almost impassable." 
Good turnpike roads had now been introduced ; villages were 
energetic in repairing the approaches to them ; and "it is to be 
hoped that so great an improvement as that of inclosing and 
cultivating the commonable lands will no longer be neglected." 
The crying need was the want of drainage. The common pastures 

1 Claridge's Dorsetshire (1793), p. 43. 

•Stevenson's Dorsetshire (1812), p. 307. 

' Davis' Wiltshire (1794), p. 136. This is, perhaps, the best of all the agri- 
cultural Reports. 



234 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

from Westbury to Cricklade were in a " wet rotten state," depas- 
tured by an " unprofitable kind of stock," but " wanting only 
inclosing and draining to make them as good pasture land as many 
of the surrounding inclosures." Some of the cold arable fields 
would have been much more valuable if turned to pasture, and, in 
their undrained state, even the driest were " not safe for sheep in 
a, wet autumn." 

3. From the South-Eastern and Midland District the evidence is 
the fullest, because the district was still in a great measure farmed 
on the open-field system. 

In Berkshire ^ (1794) there were 220,000 acres of open-fields, 
and do\vns, to 170,000 acres of inclosed land. Half of the county 
*' is still Ijang in common fields ; and though it is not divided into 
such very small parcels as in some other counties, the farmer 
labours under all the inconvenience of commonable land ; and by 
that, is Avithheld from improving or treating his land, so as to 
return the produce which it ought to do, if entire, and under a 
good course of husbandry." " We generally see on all the commons 
and waste lands, a number of miserable cattle, sheep, and horses, 
which are a disgrace to their respective breeds, and the cause of 
many distempers." 

In Buckinghamshire 2 (1794) 91,906 acres remained in open- 
fields. The Reporters point out that " the slovenly operations of 
one man are often of serious consequence to his neighbours, 
with whose property his lands may He, and generally do he, very 
much intermixed. Every one is aware of the noxious quality of 
weeds, whose downy and winged seeds are wafted by every wind, 
and are deposited upon those lands which are contiguous to them ; 
and which before were perhaps as clean as the nature of them 
would admit, to the manifest injury of the careful and attentive 
farmer. Inclosures would, in a certain degree, lessen so great an 
evil ; they would also prevent the inroads of other people's cattle, 
as particularized in the parish of Wendover, and in which one man 
held eighteen acres in thirty-one different allotments." 

Oxfordshire ^ in 1794 contained " upwards of an hundred unin- 
closed parishes or hamlets." The Reporter enumerates several 
advantages of enclosure. " The first of these is getting rid of the 

1 Pearce's Berkshire (1794), pp. 13, 49, 59. 

* James' and Malcolm's Bitckinghamshire (1794), pp. 32, 58. 

« Davis's Oxfordshire (1794), pp. 22, 30. 



OXFORDSHIRE IN 1794 AND 4,809 235 

restrictions of the former course of husbandry, and appropriating 
each of the various sorts of land to that use to which it is best 
adapted. 2. The prevention of the loss of time, both as to labourers 
and cattle, in travelling . . . from one end of a parish to another ; 
and also in fetching the horses from distant commons before they 
go to work. 3. There is a much better chance of escaping the 
distempers to which cattle of all kinds are liable from being mixed 
with those infected, particularly the scab in sheep. This circum- 
stance, in common fields, must operate as a discouragement to the 
improvement of stock. ... 5. The great benefit Avhich arises 
from draining lands, which cannot so well, if at all, be done on 
single acres and half acres, and would effectually prevent the rot 
amongst sheep, so very common in open field land. 6. Lastly 
the preventing of constant quarrels, which happen as well from the 
trespasses of cattle, as by ploughing away from each others' land." 
Otmoor, near Islip, containing " about four thousand acres," is 
mentioned as the largest and most valuable tract of waste in the 
county. " This whole tract of land hes so extremely flat, that the 
water, in wet seasons, stands on it a long time together, and of 
course renders it very unwholesome to the cattle, as well as the 
neighbourhood. The sheep are thereby subject to the rot, and the 
larger cattle to a disease called the moor evil. The abuses here 
(as is the case of most commons where many parishes are concerned) 
are very great, there being no regular stint, but each neighbouring 
householder turns out upon the moor what number he pleases. 
There are flocks of geese likewise kept on this common, by which 
several people gain a livelihood." 

In 1809, Arthur Young reported on Oxfordshire,^ where he 
found that, in proportion to its extent, more land had been enclosed 
since 1770 in the county than in any other part of England. Otmoor 
and Wychwood Forest were still uninclosed wastes. Apart from 
the question of productiveness, he urged that the enclosure of the 
latter district was necessary on moral grounds. " The vicinity is 
filled with poachers, deer-stealers, thieves, and piKerers of every 
kind ; offences of almost every description abound so much, that 
the offenders are a terror to all quiet and well-disposed persons ; 
and Oxford gaol would be uninhabited, were it not for this fertile 
source of crimes." Nearly one hundred parishes still remained in 
open-fields. " It is," says Young, speaking of open-field practices, 
1 Young's Oxfordshire (1809), pp. 87, 236, 239, 102. 



236 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

" a well-known fact that men have ploughed their land in the 
night for the express purpose of steaHng a furrow from their 
neighbour ; and at all times it is a constant practice in some to 
plough from each other." " I have known," says one of his 
informants, " years wherein not a single sheep totally kept in the 
open field has escaped the rot." Yet on this same land, enclosed 
and drained, not one sheep died from the rot in nineteen years. 

In 1770, the South and East of Warwickshire had mainly con- 
sisted of open-fields. Now (1794) ^ there still remained 50,000 
acres. But in 1813 ^ it is reported that a very small area contiuued 
in an unenclosed state. 

Northamptonshire,^ in 1794, contained 89 parishes still in open- 
fields. There was, therefore, " above one third of the whole 
(county) by no means in the best state of cultivation of which it is 
susceptible." The commons did not " yield pasturage," " at the 
highest computation," which was worth more than " 5s. an acre. 
Indeed, if the calculation was fairly made, the occupiers are not 
benefited to the extent of half that sum, as the stock which they 
send to depasture upon these commons is liable to so many diseases 
and accidents, as, one year with another, nearly counterbalances 
any advantages which can be derived from possessing this right. . . . 
By every information that could be procured, it appears that the 
stock is not kept with a view to any profit that can possibly arise 
from the sales, but merely as the means of cultivating and manuring 
the soil. Indeed, long experience has evinced, that no species 
of stock kept in these open fields can be carried to market on 
terms nearly so advantageous as the same articles raised by those 
farmers who occupy inclosed lands ; nor is it to be supposed, 
considering the manner in which the stock is treated, that the 
owners will pay much attention to the improvement of the different 
breeds." As to the arable land, " the several occupiers must con- 
form to the ancient mode of cultivation of each division or field 
in which their lands are respectively situated ; from which it will 
appear that one obstinate tenant (and fortunate must that parish 
be accounted, where only one tenant of that description may be 
found) has it in his power to prevent the introduction of any improve- 
ment. . . . The tillage lands are divided into small lots of two or 

1 Wedge's Warwickshire (1794), p. 20. 

* Murray's Warwickshire (1813), pp. 62, 144. 

3 Donaldson's Northante (1794), pp. 24, 29, 58. 



SOUTH-EASTERN AND MIDLAND DISTRICTS 237 

three old-fashioned, broad, crooked ridges (gathered very high 
towards the middle, or crown, being the only means of drainage 
that the manner in which the lands are occupied wiU admit of), 
and consequently the farmer possessing 100 acres must traverse 
the whole extent of the parish, however large, in order to cultivate 
this small portion." 

In Leicestershire ^ (1800) very httle open-field land was left 
"not more than 10,000 acres." In Nottinghamshire 2 (1798) 
enclosure was proceeding rapidly, " Good land, with extensive 
commons," is said to be most capable of improvement ; " clay land 
with small commons," to have been the least capable. Midway 
between the two came " clay land with large commons." But 
" even the worst " may be increased in value by a fourth, after 
deducting all improvements. 

In Middlesex^ (1794) many thousands of acres of wastes lay 
unenclosed — " an absolute nuisance to the pubHc." The commons 
of Enfield, Edmonton, and Tottenham were frequently flooded ; 
but no effort was made to keep the ditches scoured. In 1798 there 
were stiU 17,000 acres of " common meadows, all capable of improve- 
ment, not producing to the community in their present state more 
than 4s. an acre." To the Reporter's eyes the commons were " a 
real injury to the public," partly because they tempted the poor 
man to settle on their borders, build a cottage out of the material 
they afforded, and trust to his pigs and poultry for a Hving ; partly 
because they became " the constant rendezvous of gjrpseys, strollers 
and other loose persons . . . the resort of footpads and highway- 
men." The arable land of the county is estimated at 23,000 acres, 
of which, in 1798, 20,000 were in open-fields. 

In Hampshire^ (1813) the Reporter found the commons so over- 
stocked as to produce httle or no substantial benefit to those who 
enjoyed the grazing rights, and the surface " shamefully deterio- 
rated " by the exercise of rights of turbary or paring turf for 
fuel. He hopes to see " every species of intercommonable rights 
extinguished," and, with them, " that nest and conservatory of 
sloth, idleness, and misery, which is uniformly to be witnessed in 

1 Pitt's Leicestershire (1800), p. 68. 

2 Lowe's Nottinghamshire (1798), pp. 19, 165. 

3 Foot's Middlesex (1794), pp. 30, 32, and Middleton's Middlesex (1798), pp. 
98, 103, 138. 

♦Vancouver's Hampshire (1813), pp. 318, 496. 



238 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

the vicinity of all commons, wast«-lands, and forests throughout 
the kingdom." 

4. In the Eastern and North-Eastern counties, neither Essex 
nor Hertfordshire possessed many commons or open-field farms. 
A description of the inhabitants of the neighbourhood of Epping 
and Hainault Forests in Essex (1795) has been already quoted.^ 
In Hertfordshire ^ (1795) the Reporter notes that the few remaining 
open-fields had been freed from the old restraints, and were cul- 
tivated as if they were held in separate occupation. Speaking of 
pasture commons, he says : " Where wastes and commons are 
most extensive, there I have perceived that cottagers are the most 
wretched and worthless ; accustomed to rehe on a precarious and 
a vagabond subsistence, from land in a state of Nature, when 
that fails they recur to pilfering. . . . For cottagers of this descrip- 
tion the game is preserved and by them destroyed." Of Cheshunt 
Common^ (1813) it is stated that " the common was not fed by the 
poor, but by a parcel of jobbers, who hired cottages, that they 
might eat up the whole." 

Two-thirds of the county of Huntingdon * in 1793 lay in open- 
fields. Proprietors rarely had more than two or three acres con- 
tiguous. " The residue hes in acres and half acres quite disjointed, 
and tenants under the same land-owner cross each other con- 
tinually in performing their necessary daily labour. . . . The sheep 
of the common fields and commons are of a very inferior sort, 
except in some few instances, and httle if any care is taken either 
in the breeding, feeding or preserving them ; and from the neglected 
state of the land on which they are depastured, and the scanty 
provision for their support in winter, and the consequent diseases 
to which they are Hable, their wool is also of a very inferior quahty." 

On the uplands of Lincolnshire ^ (1794) there were but few open- 
field farms. " The sheep of the common fields," says the Reporter, 
" I do not bring into this account from the circumstances of hard- 
ship, attending the scantiness of their food, the wetness of their 
layer, the neglect of a proper choice in their breed, their being 
overheated in being (where folded) dogged to their confinement, 

1 See p. 154. 

2 Walker's Hertfordshire (1795), pp. 48, 53. 
^ Young's Hertfordshire (1804), p. 45. 

* Stone's Huntingdonshire (1793), pp. 8, 17, 15. 
5 Stone's Lincolnshire (1794), p. 62. 



LINCOLNSHIRE AND THE EAST RIDING 239 

where they are often too much crowded ; the scab, the rot, and 
every circumstance attend them, which can delay their being 
profitable ; so that it may be reasonably concluded, that they are 
of less value than those bred in inclosures, from 10s. to 15s. per 
head, and their fleeces are equally unproductive." Five years 
later Arthur Young reported on this part of the county.^ He 
describes the true Lincolnshire cattle which he found on open- 
field farms as a " wretched " breed ; " they all run together on a 
pasture, without the least thought of selection." At three years 
old, they were worth little more than half what they fetched on 
enclosed land. Open-field farmers " breed four or five calves 
from a wretched cow before they sell it, so that a great quantity 
of food is sadly misapplied." It was from this " post-legged, 
square-buttocked breed of demi-elephants," to use Marshall's 
description, that the Navy beef of England was chiefly provided. 
The open-field sheep had not improved. " I never," says Young, 
apparently with surprise, " saw a fold in the county, except in a 
few open fields about Stamford ; . . . but the sheep are miserably 
bad ; in wool 8 or 9 to the tod." In the East Riding ^ of Yorkshire 
(1794) the pasture commons varied " in extent from two hundred 
to two thousand five hundred acres, and all of them may be con- 
verted into useful land by drains, sub-divisions, plantations, and 
other improvements. . . . When commons are not stinted in 
proportion to the stock they are capable of keeping, very little 
benefit is derived from them. ... It is not a little extraordinary 
to see a starving stock upon a common of five hundred acres soaked 
with water, when the expense of a few shilHngs for each right, 
prudently laid out in drains and bridges, would double its value. 
Such is the obstinacy of men, and so difficult is it to induce them 
to form the same opinion ; though an union of sentiment would 
much more materially promote their interest." 

Norfolk 3 in 1796 contained 80,000 acres of unimproved commons, 
and about one-fourth of the arable area of the county was tilled 
on the common or open-field system. " There is," says the Reporter, 
who was the well-known Nathaniel Kent, " still a considerable deal 
of common-field land in Norfolk, though a much less proportion 
than in many other counties ; for notwithstanding common rights 

1 Yoiing's Lincolnshire (1799), pp. 303, 374. 

» Leatham's East Riding (1794), p. 39. 

» Kent's Norfolk (1796), pp. 6, 32, 72, 73, 81, 158. 



240 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

for great cattle exist in all of them, and even sheep-walk privileges 
in many, yet the natural industry of the people is such, that, when- 
ever a person can get four or five acres together, he plants a white- 
thorn hedge round it, and sets an oak at every rod distance, which 
is consented to by a kind of general courtesy from one neighbour 
to another." " Land," he elsewhere remarks, " when very much 
divided, occasions considerable loss of time to the occupier, in 
going over a great deal of useless space, in keeping a communication 
with the different pieces. As it lies generally in long narrow shps, 
it is but seldom it can receive any benefit from cross-ploughing and 
harrowing, therefore it cannot be kept so clean ; but what is still 
worse, there can be but little variety observed in the system of 
cropping ; because the right which every parishioner has of com- 
monage over the field, a great part of the year, prevents the sowing 
of turnips, clover, or other grass seeds, and consequently cramps 
a farmer in the stock which he would otherwise keep." Commons 
of pasture lay "in all parts of the county, and are very different 
in their quahty. Those in the neighbourhood of Wymondham 
and Attleborough are equal to the finest land in the county, worth, 
at least, twenty shillings an acre ; being capable of making either 
good pasture, or producing com, hemp or flax. There are other 
parts which partake of a wet nature and some of a furze and heathy 
quahty ; but they are most of them worth improving, and all 
of them capable of producing something ; and it is a lamentable 
thing, that those large tracts of land should be suffered to remain 
in their present unprofitable state." Under the head of Poor 
Rates, the Reporter observes " that the larger the common, the 
greater the number and the more miserable are the poor." In 
the parishes of Horsford, Hevingham, and Marsham, which " link 
into each other, from four to nine miles from Norwich, there are 
not less than 3,000 acres of waste land, and yet the average of the 
rates are, at least, ten shilHngs in the pound. This shows the 
absolute necessity of doing something with these lands, or these, 
uncultivated, will utterly ruin the cultivated parts, — for these 
mistaken people place a fallacious dependence upon these pre- 
carious commons, and do not trust to the returns of regular labour, 
which would be, by far, a better support to them." Of Wymondham 
Common, Arthur Young ^ %vrote m 180L The area was 2,000 
acres ; but " the benefit to the poor is httle or nothing further 
^ Inquiry into the propriety of applying Wastes, etc., 1801. 



BEDFORDSHIRE ^ 241 

than the keeping a few geese ; as to cows there are very few. 
The common is so overstocked with sheep that cows woukl be 
starved on it ; and these sheep are mostty in the hands of jobbers, 
who hire small spots contiguous [to the common] for no other 
purpose. These men monopolise almost the whole." 

Bedfordshire in 1794 ^ was famous for its backwardfarming. 
It still disputed with Cambridgeshire the reputation of being the 
Boeotia of agriculture. It contained 217,000 acres of open or 
common fields, common meadows, common pastures, and waste 
lands, to 68,000 acres of enclosure and 22,000 acres of Avoodlands. 
As a rule, the enclosed land was as badly farmed as the open-fields. 
Hence the practice of enclosing had fallen into disrepute. The 
Reporter seems to suggest another reason for the reluctance of 
landlords to enclose. " It has," he says, " frequently occurred to 
me in practice, that some of the occupiers of a common field are 
pursuing the best possible mode of management the situations 
are capable of, whilst others are reducing land intermixed there- 
with to the lowest state of poverty, beggary and rubbish. . . . 
Upon the inclosure of common fields it frequently occurs that 
commissioners are obliged to consider such worn-out land of con- 
siderabty less value than such parts as have been well-farmed ; 
of course, the proprietors, whose misfortune it has been to have 
their land badly occupied, have had a smaller share, upon the 
general division of the property, than they otherwise would have 
had, in case their land had been better farmed." In one respect 
enclosed land had the advantage. Sheep in Bedfordshire were 
practically only used as manure-carriers. They Avere " generally 
of a very unprofitable quaHty, but more especially those bred in 
the common fields, where the provision intended for their main- 
tenance is generally unwholesome and scanty. . . . From the 
undrained state of the commons and common fields, the stock of 
sheep depastured upon them is but too frequently swept away by 
the rot ; and, it being absolutely necessary, according to the present 
system of farming, that their places should be constantly suppHed 
with others for the folding of the land, under such circumstances 
of casualty and necessity, the healthiness of the animal when 
purchased is the first and almost the only object of consideration 
with the farmers." Sheep, from any county, of any breed, and of 
any description, were therefore bought indiscriminately. Nine- 

1 Stone's Bedfordshire (1794) pp. 11, 61, 31. 
Q 



242 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

tenths of the sheep of the common fields of the country are " coarse 
in their heads and necks, proportionately large in their bones, high 
on the leg, narrow in their bosoms, shoulders, chines and quarters, 
and light in their thighs, and their wool is generally of a very in- 
different quality, weighing from three to four pounds per fleece. . . . 
The sheep bred upon the inclosures are generally of a much superior 
quality . . . very useful and profitable." Thirteen years later 
(1807),^ 43 parishes, or about a third of the county, were farmed 
on the open-field system. To the rapid spread of enclosures and to 
the influence and example of great landlords, the Reporter attributed 
the material improvement in the sheep stock of the county. 

Out of 147,000 acres of arable land in Cambridgeshire ^ (1794) 
132,000 lay in open-fields. The rental of the enclosed land averaged 
18s. per acre, and that of the open-fields 10s. On the uplands 
of the county, as distinguished from the fen districts, there were 
2,000 acres of half-yearly meadow lands which were grazed bj^ the 
village partners from hay-harvest till Easter ; 7,500 acres of high- 
land common ; 8,000 acres of fen or moor common, which, though 
easily drained, " contribute little to the support of the stock, though 
greatly to the disease of the rot in the sheep and cows." The 
Reporter considered that no general improvement of the farming 
of the county was possible until the intermixed lands of " the com- 
mon open fields " were laid together and occupied in severalty. He 
made it part of his business to enquire into the feeling of " the 
yeomanry in their sedate and sober moments ... as to this 
important innovation upon the estabhshment of ages. A few have 
given an unqualified dissent, but they were flock-masters ; others 
have concurred under certain limitations, but the mass of the 
farmers are decidedly for the measure in question." He estimates 
that the general average produce per acre of enclosed land exceeded 
that of the open-fields in the following proportions : wheat, 3 
bushels 1 peck ; rye, 3 pecks ; barley, 15 bushels 1 peck ; oats, 
1 bushel 1 peck ; peas, 2 bushels 1 peck. " But, if a single instance 
be adverted to. and a comparison made between the parishes of 
Childersley, which is enclosed, and Hardwicke, which remains in 
open common field, and which parishes appear by the journal to 
consist of a perfectly similar soil," the result is much more favour- 
able to enclosures. Childersley produced 24 bushels of wheat to 

1 Batchelor's Bedfordshire (1808), pp. 217, 537. 

2 Vancouver's Cambridgeshire (1794), pp. 193, 203, 195, 112, 111. 



THE FEN-LANDS 243 

Hardwicke's 16 bushels ; 36 bushels of barley to 18 bushels ; 36 
bushels of oats to 18 bushels, or 20 bushels of oats to 8 bushels. To 
this increase of produce must be added another advantage. Chil- 
dersley and Knapwell, both enclosed, were entirely exempt from the 
rot among their sheep, while the neighbouring parishes were 
desolated by the disease. The ravages of the rot which are 
chronicled may probably have been exceptional. On the open- 
fields of Gamlingay a fourth of the flock, or 340 sheep, perished in 
1793. The mortaUty is attributed to the want of drainage in the 
arable land. At Croxton in 1793 1,000 sheep were rotted on the 
unenclosed lands, and, in the same year, 700 on the open-fields 
of Eltsley. In 1813 another Report on Cambridgeshire ^ was 
issued. In the interval of twelve years, the area of open-field and 
common had been greatly lessened. In consequence, says the 
Reporter, Cambridgeshire farmers " have an opportunity of redeem- 
ing the county from the imputation it has so long lain under, of 
being the worst cultivated in England, and of proving (the fact) 
that the same industry, spirit and skill which have been manifested 
in other parts of the Kingdom, exist also in this, the open-field 
state and system precluding the possibihty of exercising them." 

To the Eastern and North Midland districts mainly belonged 
the fen-lands. This vast tract of waterlogged land still included 
Peterborough Fen in Northamptonshire, embraced small portions 
of both Norfolk and Suffolk, and extended over a considerable 
part of Huntingdonshire, Cambridgeshire, and Lincolnshire. At 
a moderate computation, the total area, which at the best was 
imperfectly drained, and lay to a great extent unenclosed, com- 
prised 600,000 acres. The drainage works of the seventeenth 
century had only partially succeeded. Where the system had been 
carefully watched and maintained, the land had been greatly 
improved. But the neglected outfalls were once more choked with 
silt ; the porous banks admitted the water almost as fast as it 
was removed by the draining-mills ; in some instances they had 
been broken down by floods and not repaired ; in some they had 
been wilfully damaged or destroyed by the commoners. Yet much 
of this drowned area, either actually or potentially, consisted of 
some of the richest land in Great Britain. Some portions of the 
drier ground were cultivated on the open-field system, and the 
commons were numerous and extensive. 

^ Gooch's Cambridgeahire (1813), pp. 2, 56. 



244 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

Peterborough Fen ^ (1793) consisted of from 6,000 to 7,000 
acres of " fine level land, of a soil equal to any perhaps in the king- 
dom of Great Britain, and susceptible of the highest cultivation." 
In its present wet state it vA^as dangerous to stock. Farmers hving 
in the neighbourhood never turned their cattle on it except in very 
dry seasons. It was, however, depastured by the horses, cattle, 
and sheep of 32 parishes in the Soke of Peterborough. " Con- 
sidering the present mode of management," says the Reporter, " it 
is impossible that any advantage can arise to the persons having 
right therein." But, in his opinion, the land, if properly drained, 
enclosed, and tilled, might jaeld a greatly increased produce and 
employ from 1300 to 1400 hands. 

The Huntingdonshire fens^ contained (1793) 44,000 acres. 
Marshall speaks of " the disgraceful state in which some of these 
lands were suffered to remain (a blank in English territory)." The 
Reporter says that the fen is " generally unproductive, being 
constantly either covered with water, or at least in too wet a state 
for cultivation." Of so httle value was it that those who exercised 
rights over it frequently preferred relinquishing their claims to 
paying the drainage taxes. Very considerable portions of the fen 
districts were occupied by meres — shallow lakes filled with water 
which was often brackish. Their only value lay in the reeds, which 
were used for thatching or in malting, and in the fishing. But 
many of the meres were so silted up with mud that the fish had 
diminished in numbers. Their drainage, says the Reporter in 1811,^ 
would be of inestimable service to the health of the inhabitants. 
" They are awful reservoirs of stagnated water, which poisons the 
air for many miles round about, and sickens and frequently destroys 
many of the inhabitants, especially such as are not natives." 

In Cambridgeshire * (1794) there were " 50,000 acres of improved 
fen, and 200,000 acres of wastes and unimproved fen." Vancouver, 
who was the Reporter to the Board, walked over every parish in 
the district in order to obtain rehable information. Except on 
foot, he could not penetrate into the recesses of the district. Neigh- 
bouring parishes were ignorant of each other's condition. The 
roads were often impassable, and at their best were only repaired 

^ Donaldson's Northamptonshire (1793), p. 30. 

* Stone's Huntingdonshire (1793), pp. 8, 13. 
' Parkinson's Huntingdonshire (1813), p. 21. 

* Vancouver's Cambridgeshire (1794), pp. 25, 36, 151, 154, 184, 186, 187, 149. 



CAMBRIDGESHIRE FENS ^ 245 

with a silt which resembled " pulverised sand." Almost every- 
where he speaks of the " deplorable condition of the drainage," and 
consequently of the " miserable state of cultivation " which pre- 
vailed on the open-field lands. The fen-lands of Chatteris, Elm, 
Leverington, Parson Drove, Wisbech St. Mary's and Thorney, 
amounting to about 50,000 acres yield " a produce far beyond the 
richest high lands in the county, averaging a rent of more than fifteen 
shillings per acre. Whereas the waste, the drowned, and partially 
improved fens, amounting on a moderate computation to 150,000 
acres, cannot be fairly averaged at more than four shilHngs per 
acre." Very rarely were the open-fields and commons even in a 
fair state of cultivation. Wilburton was a favourable example. 
There field-reeves had been appointed by the parish, with power 
to open up neglected drains at the expense of those to whom they 
belonged. But almost universally the common pasture was deterio- 
rated by turf-cutting ; the marsh lands, if tilled, were exhausted 
by barbarous cropping ; and effective drainage was prevented by 
the intermixed condition in which the land was occupied. At 
Snailwell, an open upland parish, there was a flock of 1,200 Norfolk 
sheep, which were only " kept healthy by being prevented from 
feeding upon the wet moory fen common." The general attitude 
of the ague-stricken, opium-eating fen-men towards the drainage 
of the district may be illustrated by the example of Burwell, a chalk- 
land parish on the Suffolk border. " Any attempt in contempla- 
tion of the better drainage " of Burwell fen, already " greatly 
injured by the digging of turf," and " constantly inundated," is 
" considered as hostile to the true interests of these deluded people." 
In 1794 the principal Lincolnshire ^ commons were the East and 
West (29,000 acres), the Wildmore Fen (10,500 acres), the East 
and West Deeping Fens (15,000 acres). The East and West and 
Wildmore Fens were " under better regulations than any others 
in the fen country." " Yet," says the Reporter, " they are 
extremely wet and unprofitable in their present state, standing much 
in need of drainage, are generally overstocked, and dug up for turf 
and fuel. The cattle and sheep depastured upon them are often 
very unhealthy, and of an inferior sort, occasioned by the scanti- 
ness, as well as the bad quaHty of their food, and the wetness of 
their lair. Geese, with which these commons are generally stocked 
. . . are often subject to be destroyed. It is not a constant prac- 
1 Stone's Lincolnshire (1794), pp. 18, 22. 



246 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

tice with the commoners to take all their cattle off the fens upon the 
approach of winter ; but some of the worst of the neat cattle, with 
the horses, — and particularly those upon Wildmore Fen, — are left 
to abide the event of the winter season ; and it seldom happens 
that of the neat cattle many escape the effects of a severe winter. 
The horses are driven to such distress for food that thej^ eat up every 
remaining dead thistle, and are said to devour the hair off the 
manes and tails of each other and also the dung of geese." A 
second Reporter ^ (1799), Arthur Young, speaks of " Avhole acres " 
in Wildmore Fen as " covered with thistles and nettles four feet 
high and more. There are men that have vast numbers of geese, 
even to 1000 and more. ... In 1793 it was estimated that 40,000 
sheep, or one per acre, rotted on the three fens {i.e. on East and West 
and Wildmore Fens). So wild a country nurses up a race of people 
as wHd as the fen ; and thus the morals and eternal welfare of 
numbers are hazarded and ruined for Avant of an inclosure. . . . 
In discourse at Louth upon the characters of the poor, observations 
were made upon the consequences of great commons in nursing 
up a mischievous race of people ; and instanced that, on the very 
day we were talking, a gang of villains w^ere brought to Louth gaol 
from Coningsby, who had committed numberless outrages upon 
cattle and com ; laming, killing, cutting off tails, and wounding a 
variety of cattle, hogs, and sheep ; and that many of them were 
commoners on the immense fens of East, West, and Wildmore." 

These descriptions apph- to commons under the best regulations. 
Deeping Fens may be taken as examples of the ordinary manage- 
ment of Lincolnshire commons in the fen districts. " Thej^ stand," 
thinks the Reporter of 1794,^ " very much in need of inclosing and 
draining, as the cattle and sheep depastured thereon are very 
unhealthy. The occupiers frequently, in one season, lose four 
fifths of their stock. These commons are without stint, and almost 
every cottage within the manors has a common right belonging 
to it. Every kind of depredation is made upon this land in cutting 
up the best of the turf for fuel ; and the farmers in the neighbour- 
hood, having common rights, avaihng themselves of a fine season, 
turn on 7 or 800 sheep each, to ease their inclosed land, whilst the 
mere cottager cannot get a bite for a cow ; but yet the cottager, in 
his turn, in a colourable way, takes the stock of a foreigner as his 
own, who occasionally turns on immense quantities of stock in good 
^ Young's Lincolnshire (1799), p. 223. * Stone's Lincolnshire, p. 22. 



LINCOLNSHIRE FENS -^ 247 

seasons. The cattle and sheep, which are constantly depastured 
on this common, are of a very unthrifty ill-shapen kind, from 
being frequently starved, and no attention paid to their breed. 
Geese are the only animals which are at any time thrifty ; and 
these frequently, when young, die of the cramp, or, when plucked, 
in consequence of the excessive bleakness and wetness of the com- 
mons. A goose pays annually from Is. to 16d. by being 4 times 
plucked. These commons are the frequent resort of thieves, who 
convey the cattle into distant Counties for sale." 

The North Fens round the Isle of Axholm formed in 1794 another 
large area (12,000 acres) of commons and wastes. If " divided 
and inclosed," says the Reporter,^ they " would for the most part 
make very valuable land ... in their present state, they are 
chiefly covered with water, and in summer throw forth the coarsest 
of productions ; the best parts, which are those nearest the enclosed 
high lands, are constantly pared and burnt to produce vegetable 
ashes. . . . The more remote parts of the common are dug up 
for fuel. On account of the general wetness of those commons, 
and their being constantly overstocked by the large occupiers of 
contiguous estates, or in such seasons as the depasturage is desirable 
in summer, to ease the inclosed land, the cattle and sheep necessarily 
depastured thereon at all seasons being those of the cottagers, who 
are for the most part destitute of provision for them in winter, are 
always unthrifty, and subject to various diseases, which render 
them very unprofitable to the occupiers." The farming of the 
open arable fields had, in the Reporter's opinion, deteriorated 
rather than progressed. " If," he says,^ " those gentlemen, whether 
proprietors or agents, who have any concern in the management 
of common fields, will examine into the present mode of occupancy 
of the different classes of them . . . they will in most cases find 
them in a weak impoverished state ; and that the original systematic 
farming of them is either lost or laid aside, and that the agriculture 
of the common fields of this county has rather dechned than 
improved." The Cambridgeshire Reporter,^ it may be added, 
formed the same opinion of the open-fields in that county, and 
he produces some evidence to prove that the rental of open farms 
had fallen since the seventeenth century. 

The general impression left by this mass of evidence is that 
the agricultural defects of the intermixture of land under the 
1 Stone, p. 29. « Stone, p. 56. ^ Vancouver, p. 97. 



248 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

open-field system were overwhelming and ineradicable ; that as 
an instrument of land cultivation it had probably deteriorated 
since the thirteenth century ; that no increased production or 
general adoption of improved practices could be expected under the 
ancient system. But the Reporters note exceptions, from which 
other conclusions may possibly be drawn. In some districts the 
customary rotations had been abandoned for independent cultiva- 
tion, or modified so as to admit some variation of crojDping. Thus, 
by agreement, in Berkshire a portion of the fields was " hitched," 
or, according to the Wiltshire equivalent, " hooked." In other 
words, common rights of pasture on the arable land were suspended 
so as to allow the cultivation of turnips, clover, or potatoes. Else- 
where, again, portions of the arable land were withdrawn from 
tillage to serve as cow-commons. Nor must it be supposed that 
enclosed land was always better cultivated than open-field farms. 
The Bedfordshire and Lincolnshire Reporters, for example, state 
that in certain cases enclosure had produced no improvement, 
and in Wiltshire the Reporter hints that open-field regulations at 
least prevented some abuses to which land held in severalty was 
hable. In some districts landlords imposed upon tenants of 
separate holdings the same restrictions and course of cropping by 
Mhich they had been fettered as occupiers of land in open-fields. 
Without a large expenditure on equipment the agricultural con- 
ditions of enclosed land were often worsened, rather than bettered. 
Thus the Somersetshire Reporter quotes an example from the 
Mendip Hills, where, when land had been enclosed, the landlord 
refused to erect the necessary buildings. Similar cases might 
have been collected from many other parts of the country. In 
these respects, as well as in others, landlords had yet to be taught 
the business of owning and lettmg land. There were " Goths and 
Vandals," not only among tenants, but also among owners. 

Before any accurate estimate can be formed of the agricultural 
advantages or defects of arable farming on intermixed strips of 
land subject to common grazing rights, and of stock breeding and 
rearing on pasture commons, it is necessary to allow for some 
possibiHties of improvement by the cultivators of open-fields and 
for some neglected opportunities by landlords and tenants of enclosed 
land. But, when everj'^ reasonable allowance has been made, it is 
clear that the balance was ov^erwhelmingly in favour of separate 
occupation. As an instrument of production the ancient system 



PROCEDURE IN ENCLOSURE^ 249 

was inferior. Every advance in science made by agriculture, and 
every new resource which is adopted, only served to accentuate 
the relative disadvantages of open-field farming. Change was, in 
the circumstances, necessary. It was generally effected by obtain- 
ing ParHamentary sanction for an enclosure. 

The ordinary procedure,^ by which open-fields or commons were 
enclosed under Parliamentary authority, opened with a Petition 
presented to Parhament by persons locally interested. The Petition 
was signed by the owner of the land or lord of the manor, by the 
owner of the tithes, and by a majority of the persons interested. 
No fixed rule seems to have been followed, as to the proportion of 
consents and dissents. But ParHamentary Committees looked to 
the values as well as to the numbers which were represented. On 
this Petition, by leave of the House, a Bill was introduced, read a 
first and second tiaie, and then referred to a Committee, which 
might consist of the whole House or of selected members. The 
Committee, after receiving counter-petitions and hearing evidence, 
reported to the House, that the standing orders had, or had not, 
been comphed with ; that the allegations were, or were not, true ; 
that they were, or were not, satisfied that the parties concerned 
had consented to the Bill. On the Committee's Report, the Bill 
either was rejected, or was read a third time, passed, sent to the 
Lords, and received the Royal Assent. If the Bill passed, the 
Commissioners, or Commissioner, named in the Act, arrived at the 
village. There they heard the claims of the persons interested, 
and made their award, distributing the property in separate owner- 
ship among those who had succeeded in establishmg their claims, 
with due regard to the " quahty, quantity, and contiguity " of the 
land. 

The procedure was open to abuses. Even if it is assumed that 
a ParHamentary Committee, largely composed of landed pro- 
prietors, was always disinterested on questions affecting land, 
Httle trouble seems to have been taken to eHcit the opinions of 
smaU claimants. Schemes of enclosure rarely began with a public 
meeting of the parish. The principal owners generally met in 
secret, arranged the points in which their own interests conflicted, 
selected the soHcitor and surveyor, nominated the Commissioners, 

^ An Essay upon the nature and method of ascertainimj the specific shares of 
proprietors upon the inclosure of common fields, by the Rev. Henry SachovereU 
Homer (1766). 



250 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

settled the terms of the petition. Even the next step — that of 
obtaining signatures — might be taken privately. Sometimes it 
happened that the first intimation which the bulk of the inhabitants 
received of the scheme was that the petition had been presented, 
and that leave to bring in an enclosure Bill had been granted. To 
prevent so flagrant an abuse, clauses as to notice had been generally 
inserted in Bills from 1727 onwards. But, in order to secure the 
necessary pubhcity of proceedings, the House of Commons in 1774 
made it a standing order that notice of the scheme must be affixed 
to the door of the church of the parish afifected, for three Sundays 
in the months of August or September. Other standing orders 
corrected other abuses in the procedure. They regulated the pay- 
ments of the Commissioners, required them to account for all 
monies assessed or expended by them, restricted the choice of men 
who could fill the office, hmited their powers of deahng with the 
titles of claimants, and laid down the principle that the allotments 
to titheowners and lords of manors should be stated in the Bill. 

At all stages of the proceedings heavy costs were incurred. The 
fees paid to Parhamentary officials were considerable. If a tract 
of common land was to be enclosed, over which several parishes 
claimed rights, fees were charged for each parish. On this ground, 
partly, the Lincolnshire Reporter explains the delay in enclosing 
the East and West and Wildmore Fens. Forty-seven parishes 
were there affected, and the general Act would be charged as forty- 
seven Acts, with fees in proportion. Witnesses had to attend the 
Committee of the House of Commons and subsequently of the 
House of Lords. There might be iDostponements, delays, and 
protracted intervals ; but the witnesses, often professional men, 
had either to be maintained in London or to make two or more 
costly journeys to to^\'n. Such an expenditure was generally pro- 
hibitive for the opponents of the Bill. Unable to fee lawyers, 
produce witnesses, or urge their claims in person, they were obhged 
to content themselves with a counter-petition, which, possibly, 
might not be referred to the Committee. Nor did the cost cease 
when the Bill was passed. There were still the expenses of the 
Commissioners and their clerk ; the fees for the surveyor and his 
survey, and the valuer and his valuation ; the charges of the 
lawyers in proving or contesting claims, preparing the award, 
and other miscellaneous business ; the outlay on roads, gates, 
bridges, drainage, and other expenditure necessitated by the 



A GENERAL ENCLOSURE BILL 251 

enclosure of the land. Where the area was large, a portion of the 
land was usually sold to pay the necessary expenses. But the 
cost of fencing the portions allotted to individuals was thrown 
upon the owners, and the smaller the allotment, the greater the 
relative burden. Small men might well hesitate, apart from the 
uncertainty of proving their title, to support an enclosure scheme, 
since the value of their allotment might be almost swallowed up 
in the expense of surrounding it with a hedge. 

Many small tracts of common land were left unenclosed, because 
the extravagant cost threatened to absorb the possible profits of 
the undertaking. A general Enclosure Act would, it was urged, 
reduce the cost of enclosing small areas, promote uniformity of 
legislative action by embodying the best methods of procedure 
and the most requisite safeguards which experience suggested, and 
provide means for overcoming opposition by modifying the existing 
powers of resistance. On all these grounds, a Bill was framed by 
the Board of Agriculture. It was strongly opposed in Parliament.^ 
Many persons were interested in the continuance of the existing 
procedure. " What," asks one of the Board's Reporters, " would 
become of the poor but honest attorney, officers of Parhament, and 
a long train of etc, etc, who obtain a decent hveHhood from the 
trifling fees of every individual inclosure Bill — aU these of infinite 
use to the community, and must be encouraged whether the wastes 
be enclosed or not ? . . . The waste lands, in the dribbhng difficult 
way they are at present inclosed, will cost the country upwards 
of 20 miUions to these gentry etc. which on a general Inclosure 
Bill would be done for less than one." ^ The first Bill proposed 
by the Board was rejected mainly through the influence of 
these private interests. A further attempt w^as made in May, 1797, 
when two Bills were mtroduced. The first was "\\Tecked by the 
opposition of titheowners. One of the chief advantages of enclosures 
was that tithes were usually extinguished by an allotment of land 
in heu. This commutation of tithe was favoured by the Board, 
which in consequence incurred the suspicion of being hostile to 
the Estabhshed Church. The House of Lords seems to have been 
particularly influenced by this view. Though the first of the two 
BiUs passed the Commons, it was rejected in the Upper House. 
The second Bill did not advance beyond the Committee stage in 

1 Arthixr Yoiing's Lecture before the Board of Agriculture, May, 1809. 
^ Brown's West Riding, App. I., p. 14. 



252 OPEN-FIELD FARMS AND PASTURE COMMONS 

the House of Commons. Finally, in 1801 , the first General Enclosure 
Act (41 Geo. III. c. 109) was passed " for consolidating in one Act 
certain provisions usually inserted in Acts of Inclosure, and for 
facihtating the mode of proving the several facts usually required 
on the passing of such Acts." No alteration in the machinery of 
enclosure was made. Private Acts of Parhament were still required. 
But they were simphfied, and to some extent the expense was 
reduced. The effect was at once seen in an increase in the number 
of private Acts and a diminution in the size of the areas which 
each enclosed. 

The x\ct of 1801 was mainly appUed to commons. Open-fields 
were specifically dealt with by subsequent legislation. In 1836, 
an Act (6 and 7 Wm. IV. c. 115) was passed " for facihtating the 
inclosure of open and arable fields." It empowered two-thirds 
of the possessors of open-field rights, in number and value, to 
nominate commissioners and carry out enclosure ; or seven-eighths, 
in number and value, to enclose without the intervention of com- 
missioners. The debate in Parhament is chiefly noticeable for 
the stress which, for the first time since the days of Ehzabeth, was 
laid on the desirability of preserving commons as breathing-places 
and play-grounds. In the Bill itself the point was not really 
raised. But, as the nineteenth century advanced, this aspect of 
the question of enclosing commons and wastes became increas- 
ingly important. It was promment in the General Inclosure 
Act of 1845 (8 and 9 Vic. c. 118). The j)rincipal change made in 
this Act was the substitution of Inclosure Commissioners for the 
Parhamentary Committee as a local tribunal of enquiry, before 
which the necessary examination could be conducted on the spot. 
But Parhamentary control was not abandoned. All the schemes 
framed by the Commissioners in each given year were embodied 
in a general Act, and submitted to Parliament for sanction. The 
administration of the Inclosure Acts is now entrusted to the Board 
of Agriculture. As a State department, the Board can deal with 
open-fields and commons on broader fines than the strict inter- 
pretation of the statute, which constituted their authority, allowed 
to the Inclosure Commissioners. 



SMALL EFFECT OF THE CORN LAWS 253 



CHAPTER XIL 
THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS.i 

Di^cultj' in deciding on the good or bad influence of the Com Laws ; restric- 
tions on home as well as on foreign trade in corn ; gradual abandonment of 
the attempt to secure just prices by legislation ; means adopted to steady 
prices ; prohibition both of exports and of imports : the bounty on home- 
grown corn ; the system established in 1670 and 1689 lasts till 1815 ; its 
general effect ; influence of seasons from 1689 to 1764, and from 1765 to 
1815 ; difficulty of obtaining foreign supplies dxoring the Napoleonic wars ; 
practical monopoly in the home market : small margin of home supply 
owing to growth of population ; exaggerated effect on prices of good or 
bad harvests ; protection after 1815 ; demand by agriculturists for fair 
profits ; changed conditions of supply ; repeal of the Corn Laws, 1846. 

Men are apt to pass a hasty judgment on the Corn LaAvs in accord- 
ance with their pohtical prejudices. One party condemns them as 
mischievous ; another party approves them as salutary. Neither 
troubles to consider their practical effect. Yet, from 1689 to 1815, 
it is probable that the marked deficiency or abundance of the 
harvest in any single year produced a greater effect on prices than 
was produced by the Corn Laws in the 125 years of- their existence as 
a complete system. 

It is almost impossible to decide whether the total effect of the 
Corn Laws has been to promote or to retard agricultural progress. 
Probably the balance of their influence in either direction would 
be found to be inconsiderable. The utmost nicety of calculation 
would be required in order to measure with any degree of accuracy 
the extent to which, before 1815, they affected prices of com. 
Before the balance can be correctly struck, the advance in price, 
which was due to the increased demand consequent on the growth 
of population and to the gradual depreciation of gold and silver, 
must be discounted ; the fall in price, which resulted from economy 
in the cost and increase in the yield of production, must be 
^ See Appendix III. 



254 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

eliminated ; an explanation must be offered of the facts that in 
England, during the seventeenth century, wheat averaged only a 
haKpenny the bushel cheaper than during the eighteenth century,^ 
and that the general prices of Europe, under different fiscal systems, 
did not, during the period, materially differ from those of England. 
Still more difficult would it be to determine whether, taken as a 
whole and over the entire period of their existence, they have 
benefited or injured consumers, so far as these can be distinguished 
from producers. If they aggravated evils in some directions, 
they compensated them in others. Whatever else the legislation 
effected, it did, except during the last few years of its operation, 
steady prices, and to consumers steadiness was perhaps as great 
a boon as a spasmodic cheaj)ness which alternated with excessive 
dearness. At a time M'hen England was practically dejDendent on 
home-grown supplies, prices of corn were extravagantly sensitive 
to fluctuations in the yield of harvests. The reason is obvious. 
Average harvests provided bread enough for the population ; but 
there was often little margin to spare. A partial failure, therefore, 
meant the prospect of dearth, if not of famine. In prolonged periods 
of scarcity, like that of the Napoleonic wars, our ancestors might 
pass self-denying ordinances to reduce their domestic consumption 
by one-third, dispense with flour for their own wigs or the hair of 
their lackeys, substitute clay imitations for the pastry of their 
pies, forbid the sale of bread till it was twenty-four hours old, pro- 
hibit the use of corn m the making of starch or in distilleries. Yet, 
in the case of a necessary Hke com, it was impossible to exercise 
such economies as would make good any considerable shortage. 
Hence corn, when a deficient harvest was anticipated, was specially 
Uable to panic -stricken competition. Any falling off in the annual 
yield caused a far greater advance in price than was justified by 
the actual shortage. Somewhat similar, though less exaggerated,- 
was the effect of an anticipated abundance. The fall in price was 
wholly disproportionate to the real surplus. These violent alterna- 
tions between dearness and cheapness, if they had not been steadied 
and regulated by the legislature, would have been disastrous-to 
both consumers and producers. 

Beginning in the early Middle Ages, and ending in 1869, the 
Enghsh Com Laws lasted for upwards of six centuries. Attention 

^ Seventeenth century, 38s. 2d. the quarter ; eighteenth century, 383. 7d. 
the quarter (Arthur Young's Progressive Value of Money, p. 76). 



RESTRICTIONS ON EXPORTS AND IMPORTS 255 

has been so exclusively concentrated on one side only of their pro- 
visions, that the regulation of the inland trade in corn and the 
restrictions on its exportation have been long forgotten. Yet, 
e.5cept during the period 1815-46, the duties on foreign grain, which 
€H?e.,now regarded as the principal feature of the old Corn Laws, 
were of minor importance. The successive Governments which 
framed and revised the legislation on corn were not more enhghtened 
than their contemporaries, for whose direction the regulations were 
passed ; the ultimate effect of their measures was sometimes 
miscalculated ; their pohcy varied from time to time ; different 
objects were jDrominent at different periods. But it is impossible 
to pass any summary sentence of condemnation on the Corn Laws 
as a system selfishly designed to enrich, at the expense of consumers, 
a ruling class of landowning aristocrats. On the contrary, if the 
legislation is treated as a whole, and the restrictions on both exports 
and imports are examined together, it w^ill be found that, up to 
1815, the interests ahke of consumers, producers, and the nation 
were collectively and continuously considered. The general aim 
of legislators was to maintam an abundant supply of food at fair 
and steady prices ; to assist the agricultural industry in which, up 
to the middle of the eighteenth century, the great mass of the people 
were engaged as producers ; to prevent the depopulation of rural 
districts, build up the commercial and maritime power of the nation, 
make it independent of foreign food supphes, and foster the growth 
of the infant colonies. 

Mediaev al Co rn Laws were based on principles of morahty, if 
not of rehgion. They were akin to the laws against usury. It 
was considered immoral to prey on hmnan needs, or to take 
advantage of scarcity by exacting more than a moderate profit on 
the production of necessaries of life. The object of legislation was, 
therefore, to estabUsh " just " prices, and m the interest of con- 
sumers to restrict the liberty of sellers. The idea that British corn 
might be cheapened by bringing the granaries of Europe into 
competition with home supplies had either not suggested itself, 'or 
been rejected as impracticable. In order to estabhsh just prices, 
the methods of early legislators were various. They endeavoured 
to attam their end, and, incidentally, to secure better profits to 
producers, by keeping home-grown corn in the country, by regulating 
the inland trade, by penahsing the intervention of middlemen 
between farmers and their customers, by protectmg buyers against] 



256 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

V the craft of bakers, by preventing monopolies and speculations in 
^ grain which, in days when difficulties of transport restricted com- 
petition to narrow areas fed by local suppUes, were a real danger. 
To this class of laws belong prohibitions against selling corn out 
of the country, or transportmg it from one district to another ; 
statutes 1 against corn-dealers who " forestalled," " engrossed," or 
" regrated " grain ; and the Assizes of Bread,^ which, dowTi to the 
reign of George II., regulated the actual size of the loaf by the 
price of com, instead of proportioning its cost to that of its material. 
Eventually this class of legislation defeated its own object. 
It hampered the natural trade in corn, locked up the capital of 
farmers, and so tended to reduce the area under the plough. But 
the national dread of corn speculation, of which many laws Avere 
the expression, was only paralleled by the national horror of witch- 
craft, and lasted longer among educated classes. As facihties for 
internal transport increased, opportunities for local monopohes 
diminished. Successive steps were taken towards freedom of 
inland trade. Thus in 1571 com was permitted to be transported 
from one district to another on pajonent of a licence duty of Is. 
a quarter ; in 1663 liberty to buy corn in order to sell it again was 
conceded, when it was below a certain hmit, provided that it was 
' not resold for three months in the same market ; in 1772 the 
statutory penalties against corn-dealers Avere repealed as tending 
to " discourage the growth and enhance the price " of com ; in 
1822 the practice of setting out Assizes of Bread was b}^ Act of 
Parhament discontinued in London ; in 1836 an Act, similar in terms 
I to that of London, abohshed Assizes in provincial towns and country 
! districts. Instead of attempting to secure just prices by multiplying 
\ laws in restraint of speculation, or by regulating the cost of com 
and bread, the modern tendency has been to enforce honest dealing 
by increasing the protection of consumers against false weights and 
adulteration. 

Other means were adopted to maintain stead}^ prices in the 
interest of consumers and, indirectly, of producers. Thus the 
erection of pubhc granaries, in which farmers might store the 
surplus of one year against the shortage of the next, wa,s borrowed 
from Holland, and urged on the country by royal proclamation. 

^E.g. 5 and 6 Edward YI. c. U (1552) ; 15 Car. II. c. 7 (1663) : 12 Geo. 
III. c. 71 (1772). 

2 See Appendix III. C. 



PARLIAMENTARY CONTROL OF TAXATION 257 

In 1620 the King's Council " wrote letters into every shire and 
some say to every market-town, to provide a granary or store- 
house, with stock to buy corn, and keep it for a dear year." A 
similar object inspired the subsequent institution of bonded ware- 
houses under the King's lock (1663), in which foreign grain might 
be stored, free of duty, until withdrawn for consumption. Restric- 
tions on the exportation of home-grown corn were governed by the 
same desire to prevent excesses in surplus or deficiency, and to save 
the country from violent oscillations between cheapness and dear- 
ness. The much debated bounty on exports of grain was designed 
to produce the same result. Even the regulation of imports of 
foreign corn was partly governed by the same desire to secure a 
steady level of price. 

At an early date prohibitions against exporting corn were influ- 
enced by pohtical motives of retahation on the king's enemies, just as 
the corresponding permission was affected by considerations of the 
needs of the public treasury. Revenue, though never the first aim 
of the Corn Laws, was, in mediaeval times and again under the 
Stewarts, a secondary object. To this extent the special interests, 
not only of consumers and producers, but also of the nation, were 
thus early brought into play. Originally, corn was only exported 
by those who had obtained, and in most cases bought, the king's 
licence. But the exercise of the royal prerogative in the grant of 
Hcences provoked a constitutional struggle, which for three cen- 
turies was fought with varying fortunes. The principle at stake 
was the control of Parliament over all taxation. In 1393 freedom 
of export was allowed by statute ; but the statutory liberty might 
be overridden by the king in Council. Seventy years later (1463) 
the royal power to prohibit or jjermit exportation was taken away, 
and, instead of the sovereign's discretion, a scale of prices was 
fixed below which trade iti corn was allowed. More despotic than 
their immediate predecessors, the Tudor sovereigns reasserted the 
royal right to grant Hcences.^ Special circumstances may have 
justified the claim and its exercise. Agriculturally, the general 
aim of the Tudors was to encourage tillage in order to counteract 
the depopulating tendencies of sheep -farming. Commercially, they 
desired to build up a foreign trade as the chief support of sea power, 
and Enghsh corn was one of the commodities which they hoped 

^E.g. 25 Henry VIII. c. 2 (1533); 1 and 2 P. and M. c. 5 (1554). See 
Appendix III., B. 



268 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

to exchange for foreign produce.^ On both grounds they fostered 
a trade in exported grain. But uncontrolled hberty of sending 
com out of the country might have raised home prices by depleting 
home supplies. It may therefore have seemed essential to Tudor 
statesmen that the royal power of prohibiting exports should be 
revived in the interest of consumers. The emptiness of the royal 
treasury drove the Stewarts to seek in this control of the corn- 
trade an mdependent source of income, and it was one of the 
complaints against Charles I. that he had exercised the royal pre- 
rogative in order to swell his revenue. Ultimately the constitu- 
tional principle triumphed. From the Restoration down to 1815 
freedom to export home-grown corn was controlled and regulated 
by the legislature in accordance with scales of prices current in the 
home market. At the same time the power of the king in Council 
to suspend the laws regulating both exports and imports of grain 
was retained in use and sanctioned by Parhament. 

At the Restoration the fiscal pohcy of the country towards 
corn assumed a more definite shape. Statutes were passed in 1660, 
1663, and 1670, which regulated both exports and imports of corn. 
The two sets of regulations cannot henceforward be considered 
separately. The one was the complement of the other. The Act 
of 1660 2 allowed home-grown com to be exported Avhen prices at 
the port of shipment did not exceed, for wheat, 40s. per quarter ; , 
for rye, peas, and beans, 24s. ; for barley and malt, 20s. ; for oats, 
16s. The same Act levied a duty of 2s. a quarter on imports of 
foreign wheat, when home prices were at or under 44s. a quarter : 
above that price, the duty was reduced to 4d. Proportionate 
duties were imposed on other foreign grains according to their 
prices in the home market. These scales of duties and prices were 
revised in the Act of 1663.^ In the Acts both of 1660 and 1663 the 
object of the Government seems to have been revenue, for the 
scales of duties on foreign imports are remarkably low. In 1670, 
however, this poHcy was changed. In this Act " for the Improve- 
ment of Tillage " ^ corn might be exported, though the home prices 
rose above the limit fixed in 1663. At the same time prohibitive 
duties were levied on imports of foreign corn. When wheat, for 

^ An Act for the Maintenance of the Navy passed in 1562 (5 Eliz. c. 5), per- 
mitted the export of corn when the price of wheat was at or under 10s. per 
quarter ; of rye, beans, and peas, 8s. ; of barley, 6s. 8d. See also Appendix 
III., B. 

" 12 Car. II. c. 4. ' 15 Car. II. c. 7. * 22 Car. II. c. 13. 



BOUNTY ON EXPORTS OF CORN^ 259 

instance, stood at under 53s. 4d. a quarter, a duty of 16s. a quarter 
was imposed on foreign com ; when the home price was between 
53s. 4d. and 80s., the duty was reduced to 8s. ; when prices rose 
above 80s., the ordinary poundage of 4d. a quarter only was charge- 
able. On other foreign grains, at proportionate prices, similar 
duties were levied. 

In the reign of William and Mary ^ an addition was made to the 
system. When the home price of wheat was at, or under, 48s. a 
quarter, a bounty of 5s. a quarter was allowed on every quarter of 
home-grown wheat exported. Similar bounties were allowed on 
the export of other grains at proportionate prices. In the Parlia- 
mentary debates on this measure the interests both of consumers 
and producers were avowedly considered. 0»— the— one-aide,- the- 
Act was unquestionably framed for the benefit of producers, to 
reheve them of accumulated stock, and so to enable them to bear 
increased public burdens. On the other side, it was expected that 
the stimulus of the bounty would promote production, bring a 
larger area of land under the plough, increase the quantity of 
home-grown grain, and so provide a more constant supply of corn 
at steady prices and a lower average. For the first sixty-five years 
of the eighteenth century results seemed to justify the argument. 
But it is difficult to determine how far the low range of prices which 
prevailed from 1715 to 1765 was due to prosperous seasons, or how 
far it was the effect of the stimulus to employ improved methods 
on an increased area of land. In years of scarcity, the direct effect 
of the bounty was inconsiderable, because not only was that 
encouragement withdrawn, but the Hberty to export any home- 
grown corn was also suspended. In years of abundance, the 
bounty, by stimulating exportation, may have checked the natural 
fall of prices. But it was urged that this advantage to producers 
was a reasonable compensation for the loss they sustained in years 
of scarcity from the frequent prohibitions of exports ; that prices 
were steadied ; that no violent fall drove parts of the corn-area 
out of cultivation ; that the home-supply, on which alone the 
country could depend, was therefore more abundant than it other- 
wise would have been ; that, as the bounty was paid without regard 
to the quaHty of the exported grain, English consumers benefited 
by the retention of the superior quahties for home consumption. 
Possibly consumers may have found that these advantages counter- 
1 1 W. and M. c. 12. 



260 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

balanced the loss sustained in years of abundance by the inter- 
ference with natural cheapness, and were a set ofiE to the loss 
of the six miUion pounds/ which, between 1697 and 1765, 
were raised by taxation, and in the shape of bounties paid over to 
producers. 

The fiscal policy on which the Government embarked in 1689 
practically governed the corn trade down to 1815. Scales of regu- 
lating prices were often revised ; but the principles remained the 
same. On one side, the import of foreign corn was in ordinary 
years practically prohibited by heavy duties. On the other side, 
home production was artificially stimulated in order that a larger 
area might be maintained under corn cultivation than was required 
_in average seasons for the maintenance of the population. In the 
125 years during which this system prevailed, two periods may be 
distinguished ; the first lasting from 1689 to 1765, the second 
extending from 1765 to 1815. 

In considering the results of the fiscal policy of the Government 
during the first of these two periods, it must be remembered that 
both sets of laws were in operation at the same time. When prices 
were below a certain level, foreign imports were practically pro- 
hibited, exports of home-grown corn permitted, and the quantity of 
production stimulated by bounties. When home prices rose above 
a certain level, the bounties ceased, exports were prohibited, and 
imports of foreign grain admitted duty free or at reduced rates. 
It is, therefore, not easy to decide, whether consumers gained most 
by the laws which kept corn in the country, or lost most by those 
which kept it out. In the twentieth century, when there is a large 
additional or alternative supply of grain, produced under different 
climatic conditions to our own, there could be no question that the 
loss inflicted by the prohibition of imports would be incomparably 
the greatest. But the conditions of the corn-markets of the world 
in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries were so widely different, 
that the poHcy of the Government may not then have been unreason- 
able. Additional suppHes were only obtainable from Northern 
Europe. But the north of France, the Netherlands, Denmark, 
North-west Germany, and, to a less extent, North-east Germany and 
Poland, were affected by similar cHmatic conditions to those of 
England. Thus in unfavourable seasons the whole corn-area then 

^ See Appendix III., E. for the bounties paid in the years 1697-1765 on exports 
of grain under the Act of 1 Wilham and Mary, c. 12. 



THEIR FREQUENT SUSPENSION^ 261 

available suffered simultaneously from deficient harvests. Through- 
out the period 1689-1765 the average price of wheat in England is 
stated to have been less by 4d. a quarter than the average price in 
Continental markets. Foreign com, therefore, after bearing the 
cost of transport and insurance, seldom less than 12s. a quarter and 
often increased by war-risks, could not have reduced Enghsh prices, 
even if no import duties had been levied. Consumers were not shut 
out from an alternative and cheaper supply, because no other supply 
was available except at higher prices than were being paid for home- 
grown grain. On the other hand, they profited considerably by the 
results of the fiscal pohcy pursued in England. In average seasons 
England grew not only corn for her own people, but a surplus for 
exportation. It was only in adverse seasons that any deficiency was 
probable. When this was anticipated, the Government had two 
strmgs to its bow. The ports were closed against exports, and, if 
the supply continued inadequate, were opened to imports. It 
seemed probable, therefore, that consumers suffered no injury from 
the heavy duty on imports, or that, if thej^ were injured at all, 
their loss was infinitesimal. 

During the period 1689-1765, neither the bounties, nor the 
liberty of exportation, nor the restriction on imports, were continu- 
ously operative. In nine years ^ the bounty was suspended, or the 
exportation of home-growTi corn altogether prohibited. Generally 
this expedient succeeded ; the unusual quantity of corn retained in 
the country met the deficiency. But in three years ^ out of the 
nine the further step was taken. In 1741, and both in 1757 and 1758 
foreign corn was admitted duty free. The total amount of wheat 
imported into the country in those three years was 169,455 quarters. 
In these exceptional years, war and war-taxes, the restoration of the 
currency, or the gradual growth of the population may have specially 
affected Enghsh prices, and the bounty may, as its opponents 
asserted, have assisted their upward tendency. But all these causes 
in combination were comparatively unimportant. Throughout 
European markets the dearth or the abundance of grain, together 
\yith high or low prices, mainly depended on the weather, which 
generally affected the whole corn-area in the same way. The last 
seven years of the seventeenth century, for instance, were long 
remembered in Scotland as the " seven ill years," and in England 

1 1698, 1699, 1700, 1709, 1710, 1741, 1757, 1758, 1759. 
^ In Scotland only. 



262 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

they were almost equally disastrous. The winters of 1708-9 and 
1739-40 were two of the three winters ^ which were famous in the 
eighteenth century for their prolonged severity. Both were followed 
by deficient harvests. The wet spring, summer, and autumn of 
1756 produced a scarcity of corn, and the great heat of 1757 caused 
the crops to be too Ught to make good the previous shortage. 
These unfavourable seasons were not peculiar to England. They 
prevailed tliroughout Northern Europe, and the advance of prices 
was general. But in France, where the Government discouraged 
exports of grain and encouraged imports, the distress was acuter and 
more lastmg than in England, where the opposite fiscal poHcy was 
adopted. England, in other words, profited in these years of 
scarcity by the large reserve which the bounty helped to maintain. 

With the exception of the years in which these deficient harvests 
occurred, the period was generally prosperous for^^the labouring 
classes in England. The level of prices was low and steady. As 
compared with the average price of wheat in the seventeenth 
century, the first sixty-five years of the eighteenth century show a 
fall of 16 per cent., and this relative cheapness was accompanied by 
a rise of the same percentage in the wages of agricultural labour. 
It seems probable that the reign of George II. was the nearest 
approach to the Golden Age of the labouring classes. Necessaries 
of life were cheap and abundant ; population showed no rapid 
increase, but the standard of living unproved. Complaints of the 
low prices 2 were loud. It was said that farmers could not pay their 
rents and landowners could " scarce support their famihes." The 
loAv range of prices quoted by Eden ^ for the years 1742-1756 is 
remarkable for a country which was entirely dependent upon home 
supphes, was a considerable exporter of grain, and in nine out of 
the fifteen years ^^'as engaged in war at home or abroad. 

A succession of prices so low as those shown in the Table 
on page 263 would naturally have driven a considerable area 
out of cultivation for com, and an advance of price would 
have been caused by a diminution of the supply. The practical 
efifect of the bounty seems to have been that this natural 
result was to some degree counteracted, though throughout the 

1 The third winter was 1794-5. 

* See The Landlord's Companion, by W. Allen (1736); Considerationa on 
the Present State of Affairs, by Lord Lyttelton (1739). 

* History of the Labouring Classes, Appendix, p. Ixxx. 



BEFORE AND AFTER 1765 



263 



century a large area of corn-land was being converted to pasture. 
Thus a surplus was provided which, in years of European scarcity, 
mitigated the dearth at home. During the whole period from 1715 
to 1765 the total imports of foreign corn did not exceed 300,000 
quarters, while home-grown corn was sent out of the country to the 
amount of 11 J millions. The largest amount of wheat exported in 
any single year was reached in 1750, when the quantity was 950,483 
quarters. 1 

January Prices of Grain at Mark Lane and Bear Quay. 



Years. 


Wheat. 


Barley. 


Oats. 




S. 8. 


S. 3. 


s. 


8. 


1742 


26 to 29 


15 to 20 


12 to 


15 


1743 


20 „ 23 


15 , 


, 20 


13 „ 


16 


1744 


19 , 


21 


11 , 


, 13 


9 „ 


12 


1745 


18 , 


20 


12 , 


, 15 


12 „ 


16 


1746 


16 , 


24 


10 , 


, 12 


12 „ 


14 


1747 


27 , 


30 


8 , 


, 12 


6 „ 


9 


1748 


26 , 


28 


13 , 


, 14 


9 „ 


12 


1749 


27 , 


32 


17 , 


, 18 


14 „ 


16 


1750 


24 , 


29 


14 , 


, 17 


12 „ 


14 


1751 


24 , 


27 


14 , 


, 17 


13 „ 


14 


1752 


33 , 


34 


17 , 


, 19 


12/6 „ 


16 


1753 


29 , 


33 


17 , 


, 18 


10/6 „ 


12 


1754 


27 , 


33 


17 , 


, 19 


12/6 „ 


13 


1755 


24 , 


26 


12 , 


, 14 


10 „ 


13 


1756 


22 , 


26 


14 , 


, 15 


12 „ 


13/6 



During the second period (1765-1815) the Government maintained 
the same fiscal pohcy of regulating both exports and imports, and 
of encouraging exportation by means of bounties witMrTa certain 
range of prices. But in all other respects the two periods are 
sharply contrasted. The first period was remarkable for low 
prices, a large export trade in home-groA^ii corn, and the prosperity 
of the labouring classes ; the second period is equally remarkablev 
for high prices, a growing importation of foreign corn, and wide- 
spread misery among the wage-earning population. When the 

1 See Appendix III., D. 



H.i 



264 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

fiscal system was practically unaltered, to what causes must these 
differences be attributed ? 

The average price of wheat during the half century which ended 
in 1764, was in the next fifty years practically trebled. The tendency 
is shown in the following decennial averages of the prices of wheat 
per quarter : 

1765-74 51s. 

1775-84 43s. 

1785-94 47s. 

1795-1804 - . - . 75s. 

1805-14 93s. 

^1815-24 68s. 

It was now that England ceased to be a corn-exporting country and 

became a buyer of foreign grain. The year 1765 marks the first 

stage in this revolution in the English corn-trade. For some few 

years the balance hovered from side to side, incHning to excess now 

of exports, now of imports. After 1792 it definitely turned in favour 

of imports, which from that date increasingly prejoonderated. 

During the whole period which witnessed this change, the fiscal 

policy, though often revised, and notably in 1773 and 1791, remained 

in principle the same. But from 1765 to 1774, and again from 1792 

to 1814, the liberty to export corn, as well as the bounty which 

encouraged exportation, was almost continuously suspended. 

Imports of foreign com were also repeatedly admitted at reduced 

rates or duty free. This was the case in 1765, 1766-8, 1772-3, in 

1783, in 1790, and practically from the commencement of the French 

war (1793) till its final close. Besides the frequent revisions and 

suspensions of the regulating prices, great efforts were made to 

increase home and foreign supphes. Thus in 1772 the inland trade 

was relieved from many restrictions by the repeal of the statutory 

penalties against " badgers, forestallers, engrossers, and regrators." 

To increase the area under corn, numerous enclosure Acts ^ were 

passed. To eke out the home produce, economies were enforced 

by ParHament. Thus the hair-powder tax was imposed in 1795, 

and the use of wheat and other grain in the making of starch or in 

distilleries was repeatedly prohibited. ^ Still more exceptional 

efforts were made to secure a supply of foreign corn. Government 

agents were employed to buy corn in the Baltic, as it was feared 

^ 1,593 Acts were passed between 1795 and 1812 inclusive. 
^E.g. in 1795-6, 1800, 1801, 1809-12. 



THE HIGH PRICES OF 1765-1815^ 265 

that private merchants would hesitate to pay the high prices which 
were demanded abroad. Corn in neutral ships, destined for foreign 
ports, was seized and carried to England. Bounties on imports of 
grain which had been offered in 1773 at the rate of 4s. a quarter by 
the City of London, were offered by the Government at the rate of 
from 16s. to 20s. a quarter in 1795-6 and again in 1800 and the years 
that followed. Substitutes for ordinary com, such as rice and maize, | 
were eagerly bought : the cultivation of the potato was greatly | 
increased. But in spite of all these efforts to jjrovide food, the 
scarcity continued until there seemed to be a real prospect of aj 
failure in the supply of provisions. In 1812 the country stood on 
the very verge of famine. Shut out from Continental ports, at war 
not only with Napoleon but with America, England was reduced to 
acute and extreme distress. Conditions were at their worst. In 
August of that year the average price of wheat at Mark Lane was 
155s. per quarter ; prices of other grains, as well as of meat, rose in 
proportion ; at the end of October the potato crop was found to have 
failed by one-fourth. The year was one of the most severe suffering. 
But 1813 brought rehef. An abundant harvest lowered prices with 
extraordinary rapidity. In December wheat had fallen to 73s. 6d. 
In 1814 1 the fiscal system which had lasted, though with many j 
interruptions, since 1689, was finally abolished. After June of that I \ 
year corn, grain, meal, and flour were allowed to be exported without j 
payment of duty and without receiving any bounty. Henceforward / 1 
the Corn Laws only survived in the one-sided form of restrictions on/ 
imports. 

The high prices which prevailed in the second period (1765-1815) 
have been explained in various ways. They have been attributed 
to the improper practices of corn-dealers, the growth of population, 
the consohdation of holdings and diminution of open-field farming, 
the depreciation of the currency, unfavourable seasons, the war, or 
the fiscal system. Each of these causes may have contributed to 
the upward tendency of prices. But the most effective reasons 
for the dearness of corn were the, weather and the. war. These two 
causes aTone'woulct sufficiently explain the continued scarcity. 
Even under a system of absolute free trade, they would produce the 
same results to-day, if England still drew her supplementary suppHes 
of corn from the same limited area at home and abroad. 

The growth of the population is undoubtedly an important factor 
1 54 Geo. III. c. 69. 



266 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

in the problem. Between 1689 and 1815 the increase was consider- 
able, though, like most of the pohtical arithmetic which relates to 
the eighteenth century, the actual numbers are largely a matter of 
guess-work. In 1696 Gregory King estimated the population of 
England and Wales at 5,500,000. At the accession of George III. 
(1760), the numbers were supposed to have risen to between six and 
seven millions.^ As the reign advanced, the rate of increase was 
accelerated. The first official census was taken in 1801. In that 
year the population of England and Wales is stated to be 8,872,980. 
In 1811 it had grown to 10,150,615. On these figures the population 
had doubled itself in 125 years, and, even if no allowance is made for 
an improved standard of hving, it is probable that England during 
the same period had doubled her production of food. The increased 
supply required to feed double the numbers was certainly not ob- 
tained from abroad, for food imports, even at their highest, continued 
to be infinitesimal in amount.- It was therefore produced at home. 
In the case of wheat it would be difficult to prove the same rate 
of progress. In abundant seasons the home supply would probably 
have continued to feed the country, without risk of inadequacy or 
panic-stricken competition, and therefore cheaply. But in ordinary 
seasons the margin was at best a small one, and in unfavourable 
weather a deficit was certain. It has been disputed whether six 
bushels or eight bushels of wheat should be allowed as the average 
quantity j^early consumed by each person. At the higher rate of 
consumption, and assuming that wheat was the food of the whole 
population, seven million quarters of wheat would be required in 
1760, and ten million quarters in 1811. Ai'thur Young, in 1771, 
calculated that 2,795,808 acres were then under cultivation for 
wheat in England and Wales, and that the average produce per acre 
was three quarters, givmg a total yield of 8,387,424 quarters. In 
1808, Comber ^ estimated the w^heat area of England and Wales at 

1 Smith {Tracts on the Corn Trade) estimates the population of England and 
Wales in 1766 at six millions, of whom 3,750,000 consimied wheat, the remain- 
ing 2,250,000 consuming rye, barley, or oats. Finlaison, of the National Debt 
Office (M'Culloch's Statistical Account of the British Empire, vol. i. 399), 
calculated the nimibers in 1760 at 6,479,730. Porter {Progress of the Nation, 
p. 146) gives the population in 1760-69 as 6,850,000. Nicholls {Hist, of the 
English Poor Law, ed. 1904, vol. ii. p. 54) estimates it in 1760 as 7,000,000. 

* From 1801 to 1810 the average amount of wheat annually imported was 
600,946 quarters, or about 2 pecks per head ; from 1811 to 1820 it was only 
458,578 quarters. 

' An Inquiry into the State of National Subsistence, Appendix xxv. 



UNPROSPEROUS SEASONS ^ 267 

3,160,000 acres, and the produce, adopting Young's average rate, 
would be 9,480,000 quarters. In other words, while the population 
had increased by three miUions, the wheat production had increased 
by only one million quarters. This calculation, however, allows 
nothing for the increased productiveness of the soil under improved 
management, does not take into account the surplus wheat obtain- 
able from Scotland and Ireland, and is at first sight contradicted by 
the large acreage which enclosures had added to the cultivated area. 
Evidence mdeed exists to prove that the first effect of enclosures 
of open-field farms was often to diminish the corn area. Against 
this decrease must be set the quantity of land which, under the spur 
of the high prices of the Napoleonic war, were brought under the 
plough and tilled for corn. Comber's calculation of the wheat area 
appears to be extremely low ; but it is impossible to prove the 
suspected under-estimate. It is probably safe to say that, while in 
an average season enough wheat was grown in England and Wales 
to feed ten million people, the surplus was so small as to expose the 
country to panic prices whenever a deficiency in the normal yield 
was anticipated. 

This conclusion is confirmed by a closer examination of the yield 
of corn harvests during the period. The seasons from 1765 to 1815 
were far less favourable than those from 1715 to 1764 ; the former 
were as uniformly prosperous as the latter were uniformly adverse. 
Both in this country, and throughout Europe, the harvests of 
1765-67, 1770-74, fell much below the average. Prices rose high. 
Exports dwindled, and imports increased in volume.^ In the 
decennial period 1765-1774, for the first time in the history of 
English farming, imports of foreign wheat exceeded the home- 
grown exports. Since that period they have never lost their pre- 
ponderance. For the next eighteen years (1775-1792) the seasons 
were irregular. Thus the harvest of 1779 was long famous for its 
productiveness. On the other hand, the years 1782-3-4 were most 
unfavourable, the winters unusually severe, and the spring and 
summer cold and ungenial. There was a general scarcity of food. 
In 1782 the imports of wheat (584,183 quarters) were the largest 
yet known, and the figure was only once (1796 : 879,200 quarters) 

^ 1765-74, Exports (in round numbers) 510,000 quarters ; imports, 1,341,000, 
1775-84, exports, 1,366,100 ; imports, 1,972,000. 1785-94, exports, 1,305,385 ; 
imports, 2,015,000. 1795-1804, exports, 536,000 ; imports, 6,686,000. 1805- 
14, exports, 593,000 (nine years only, the records of 1813 having been 
destroyed) ; imports, 5,782,000. 



268 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

exceeded in the eighteenth century. Writing in August, 1786, 
Arthur Young says : " Last winter, hay, straw, and fodder of all 
kinds were scarcer and dearer than ever known in this Kingdom. 
Severe frosts destroyed the turnips, and cattle of aU kinds, and sheep 
sufiFered dreadfully ; many died, and the rest were in ill pHght to 
fatten early in this summer." The crops of 1789 again were 
deficient. Exports were prohibited, and free imports permitted. 
But in France the scarcity almost amounted to famine. The 
Govenunent spent large sums in the purchase of wheat, and Con- 
tinental prices ruled considerably above those of England. Against 
the deficient harvests of 1790 and 1792 may be set the season of 
1791, which was so favourable that, for the last time in the history of 
the com-trade,i h^q exports of the following year exceeded the 
imports. 

It will be seen that the yield of fourteen of the harvests during 
the twenty-eight years 1765-92 feU so far below the average as to 
create a scarcity ; that several others were defective ; and that 
only two (1779 and 1791) were really abundant. Yet, during the 
whole period, the total excess of imports of foreign wheat over the 
exports of home-grown produce only amounted to 1,661,000 quarters, 
or an average of httle more than 59,000 quarters a year. It may, 
therefore, be reasonably assumed that, if England had enjoyed 
seasons as uniformly favourable as those of 1715-64, she would have 
been able to feed her gro\A'ing population at low prices and yet to 
remain a grain-exporting country. The fact is a striking proof of 
her agricultural progress. It is more than doubtful whether such 
an expansion of her powers of production would have been possible 
if the open-field system of farming had been maintained. 

In February, 1793, war was proclaimed with France. It continued 

mth two brief intervals till 1815. As the struggle progressed the 

area of conflict was widened until it embraced America as well as 

Europe, and not only became a naval and mihtary war in which all 

the Powers were engaged, but developed into a commercial blockade 

directed against this country. During the whole j)eriod the Com 

Laws were practically moperative. The progress of the war 

created conditions of supply Avhich alone Avould suffice to explain 

an unprecedented rise of prices. But the situation was through- 

1 1792, exports, 300,278 quarters ; imports, 22,417. The statement in the 
text is not literally true. In 1808 the exports exceeded the imports by 13,116 
quarters (98,005 to 84,889). But the exportation was to the Peninsula for 
military piu-poses and for the supply of our own troops. 



A CHRONIC CONDITION OF PANIC 269 

out aggravated by an unusual recurrence of unproductive 
seasons. 

The wheat harvests in the twenty-two years 1793-1814 ^ may be 
thus analysed. Fourteen were deficient ; in seven out of the 
fourteen, the crops failed to a remarkable extent, namely, in 1795, 
1799, 1800, 1809, 1810, 1811, 1812. Six produced an average yield. 
Only two, 1796 and 1813, were abundant ; but the latter was long 
regarded as the best within living memory. Towards the close of the 
period, the increased extent of the wheat area to some degree com- 
pensated for the comparative failure of the crops. But the repeated 
deficiencies created an almost continuous apprehension of real 
scarcity which was expressed in abnormal prices. To a generation 
which draws its supphes from sources so remote that climatic con- 
ditions vary almost infinitely, the panic may seem unintelligible. 
It was not so in the days of the Napoleonic wars. The quantity 
available from the United States was scanty, and over the corn 
areas of Europe a similar series of unproductive seasons seems to 
have prevailed. To this, however, there was one notable exception. 
The harvests of 1808 and 1809 were remarkably favourable in 
France and the Netherlands, and, at the very height of the struggle 
with Napoleon, it was from the French cornfields that England 
obtained her additional supphes. 

The deficiency of the home harvests and the consequent fear of 
scarcity naturally raised prices of corn. The upward tendency was 
in various ways enormously increased by the progress of the war 
and the commercial blockade which it developed. No doubt the 
struggle in which the country was engaged quickened the activity 
and industry of the population, stimulated agricultural improve- 
ments, sharpened the mventive faculties to economise both in 
money and in labour. On the other hand, the war raised the rate 
of interest, added to the burden of taxation, increased the cost of 
corn-growing, and withdrew into unproductive channels a con- 
siderable portion of the capital and labour of the country. Besides 
these ordinary results, the peculiar character which the struggle 
gradually assumed threatened to deprive England of any alternative 
supply of foreign grain which could supplement the resources that 
she derived from her own soil, from Scotland, and from Ireland. 
Again and again the political situation was reflected in Mark Lane. 

1 Tooke's History of Prices, ed. 1857, Appendix vi. " Seasons 1792-1866 " 
vol. vi. pp. 471-83, and vol. i. pp. 213-376, and vol. ii. pp. 1-3. 



270 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

Thus, in 1800, it was not merely the prospect or subsequent certainty 
of an unproductive harvest which raised prices, for the actual 
deficiency had been greater in 1794-5. It^was the further dread of 
being cut off from foreign supplies. It was the hostility of Russia 
and Denmark, the consequent fear that the Baltic would be closed 
against our grain-ships, and the almost simultaneous news that 
Prussia had imposed a heavy duty on all grain exports, which com- 
bined to send wheat to 130s. a quarter. At a later stage in the 
struggle, the deficiency in our home supply was less in 1811-12 than 
it had been in 1794-5 or in 1799-1800. But it was the threat of a 
complete stoppage of all foreign supplies by the Berlin and Milan 
decrees, which turned the dread of scarcity into a panic-stricken 
competition and carried the price of wheat in 1812 to 155s. a quarter. 
Even if the war never actually effected a commercial blockade, its 
risks, together with the restrictions on exports enforced by foreign 
Powers and the hcences for navigation required by the British 
Government, forced up the rates of freight and insurance to a 
prodigious height. During the period 1810-12, this increase in 
the costs of conveyance culminated, and the charges for the trans- 
port of foreign corn rose to as much as 50s. a quarter. Thus, even 
if it was possible to obtain additional supphes from abroad, they 
could only be brought into the country at an unprecedented expense. 
/ The history of the Com Laws, thus briefly outlined, confirms the 
impression that, doAvn to 1815, they exercised httle or no influence 
on prices. If that is so, they were not the cause of the great rise of 
rents which the last quarter of a century had witnessed. Hitherto 
the only practical efi^ect of the restrictions on imports had been to 
prevent corn from being brought into the country for the purpose 
of gaining the bounty on exportation. In ordinary years, no foreign 
corn could have been imported, even duty free, at prices which 
could reduce, or compete with, home-grown produce. In years 
of scarcity, the deficiency generally extended over Europe, and 
foreign supplies were either not obtainable, or obtainable only at 
prices at least as high as our OAvn. During the frequent periods of 
war, these conditions were aggravated by the prodigious cost of 
transport. Great Britain had m the main fed her own population, 
and her prices had depended on the seasons. Consumers had not 
suffered from the Corn Laws, because no alternative cheaper supply 
was available from abroad. 

After 1815 these conditions were to a great extent altered. The 



CHANGED CONDITIONS" Rafter 1315 271 

bounty on exportation had been abolished. Freedom of export 
was allowed, and was never susiDended, because there was no margin 
of produce which could be retained in the country by prohibiting 
it_ frorn^ being sent abroad. Population was beginning to equal 
productioB.- So long as there had been a surplus of home-grown 
grain, which could be kejDt in the country by suspending the Hcence 
to export, the Com Laws had steadied prices. Now, in times of 
scarcit}^ they only increased the range of fluctuation in rise and 
fall by excluding alternative supphes. Revenue was not their 
object, because the duties were so high as to be prohibitory. They 
were frankly protective, intended to shut out imports, and so 
maintain the prices of home-grown produce above a permanent 
level. Even so, the interests of consumers would not necessarily 
have been sacrificed to those of producers, unless an additional 
and cheaper supply had been obtainable. That condition was 
now, in most years, fulfilled. The charges of transport had fallen 
to their peace level ; throughout Northern Europe corn was once 
more sowti and reaped without fear of the ravages of war, and 
Continental prices ruled below those of Great Britain : from the 
New World came an increasing suiDjoly, which was not affected by 
the same climatic conditions as those of the North of Europe. 
Henceforth external sources existed, from which deficiencies in 
the yield of home harvests might be supplied without raising prices 
beyond the addition of the costs of conveyance. If to these costs 
were added the pajTnent of heavy duties, it might be said that the 
price of bread was artificially raised to maintain the level of the 
profits of landowners and farmers. 

Another important change had taken place in the position of 
the antagonists in the coming struggle over the prices of corn. The 
issue was no longer centred on principles of abstract morahty ; 
it was, transferred to the practical region of trade. Our ancestors 
passed laws to estabfish just prices ; their successors legislated 
to secure reasonable profits. The change may have been a change 
rather of words than of ideas. But it was not without significance. 
Down to the middle of the eighteenth century, the great preponder- 
ance of the nation had been interested in prices both as consumers 
and producers of corn. Now the proportions were completely 
altered, and the majority liad permanently shifted. The new 
manufacturing class was rapidly growing ; the mass of open-field 
farmers had become agricultural labourers, whose real wages rose 



A 



272 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

with the cheapness or fell Avith the clearness of bread.. On the 
other hand, the interests of producers of corn were now represented 
by a comparatively small and dwindling class of landowners and 
farmers, who in recent years had enormously raised their own 
standard of living. Numerically small, but politically powerful, 
this class was convinced that the war-prices yielded only reasonable- 
profits. The great majority of the population was convinced to 
the contrary. 

/' Yet it would be unfair to represent that the protective poUcy of 
the later Corn Laws was entirely maintained by a Parhamentary 
majority swayed by selfish motives. It was supported, up to a 
certain point, by many who stood outside the circle of the landed 
interests, and ranked as disciples of Adam Smith. It never entered 
into their calculations that Great Britain could ever become depen- 
dent for its food supply on foreign countries. On the contrary, the 
view was strongly held that every prosperous nation must in 
ordinary seasons rely for its means of subsistence on its own resources, 
and must meet the growth of numbers with a corresponding increase 
in the supply of food. This doctrine was almost universally 
accepted. Porter, the author of The Progress of the Nation,^ was 
an advanced Free Trader. But he argued that " every country 
which makes great and rapid progress in population must make 
equal progress in the production of food." He quotes the example 
of Great Britain in support of his view. By comparing the growth 
of population with the increase in the quantity of imported wheat, 
he shows that improvements in agriculture had, to a remarkable 
extent, enabled the country to keep pace with its increasing needs. 
Thus in 1811, when the population of Great Britain was ascertained 
to be 11,769,725, only 600,946 were fed by foreign wheat. At the 
end of the next decade, 1811-20, the population had risen to 
13,494,217, and the home supply was enough for all but 458,576. 
At the close of the third decade, 1821-30, the population had 
grown to 15,465,474 ; yet only 534,992 depended on the foreign 
supply. In 1841, the numbers had increased to 17,535,826 ; but 
home-grown wheat fed all but 907,638 persons. In other words, 
British wheat, in 1811, had fed a population of 11,168,779 ; in 
1841, enough wheat was produced at home to feed a population of 
16,628,188. Thus in thirty years British land had increased its pro- 

^ The Progress oj the Nation in its various social and economical relations from 
the beginning of the Nineteenth Century, by G. R. Porter, ed. 1847, p. 136. 



A PROTECTIVE POLICY '^ 273 

ductiveness by 5| million quarters. Porter evidently expected 
that this proportionate progress would continue. He himself 
advocated the repeal of the Corn Laws ; but there were other Free 
Traders who hesitated to go this length, for fear that improvements 
should be discouraged, and that the country should mainly depend 
for its bread upon foreign wheat. 

Agriculturists also argued, and no doubt conscientiously believed, , 
that, if corn in any quantity were brought into the country from \ 
abroad, home-prices would cease to yield reasonable profits ; that 
agricultural land would be forced out of cultivation ; that rents 
and wages would fall ; that rural employment would diminish ; i 
that the viriHty of the nation would be impaired by the influx into ! 
towns and the consequent depopulation of country districts. To ' 
these arguments Parhament lent a sympathetic ear. The Umit 
of home-prices, at which the importation of grain was allowed at 
nominal duties, was raised in the case of wheat from 48s. in 1773 
to 85s. in 1815. Below those limits, duties, so heavy as to be' 
practically prohibitive, were levied on imported corn or on its 
removal from the bonded warehouses for consumption. In 1828 
the evils of this restrictive legislation, though apparently modified,! 
were really aggravated by the adoption of a shdmg scale of duties, 1 
which varied with the prices of home-groMii grain. The importa-| 
tion of corn became a gamble, and foreign importers combined tol 
raise home-prices in order to pay the lower scale of duties. Yet in/ 
spite of this experience the graduated system was maintained inl 
the legislation of 1842 and 1845. ' 

Meanwhile the whole protective poHcy, of which the Corn La^^s 
only formed a part, was gradually becoming discredited. In 1815 
a minority of the Peers had entered a powerful protest against the', 
exclusion of foreign corn. In 1820 the merchants presented their 
famous petition, which was drawn up by Thomas Tooke, the 
author of the History of Prices. A war of pamphlets raged con-j 
tinuously. In the treatment of colonial produce especially, there 
were signs of the abandonment of a rigidly protective poHcy. The 
principle of colonial preference, already recognised in 1766, had 
been acted upon in 1791, 1804, and 1815. Corn from British 
possessions was allowed to be imported at a nominal duty at a 
lower limit of home-prices than that fixed for foreign produce. 
Ten years later, corn from the British possessions of North America 
was permitted to enter British ports at a constant duty of 5s. 

s * 



274 THE ENGLISH CORN LAWS 

without reference to home-prices. In 1843 this principle was 
carried yet further. A special concession was made to Canada. 
In return for a preference granted to British trade, Canadian corn, 
irrespective of home-prices, was admitted at a nominal duty of Is. 
Encouraged by these concessions, the agitation against the Corn 
Laws gathered strength. It gradually extended from a demand 
for the relaxation of the stringent duties to a demand for their 
total abohtion. For a brief period the pressure was reduced by 
the favourable seasons of 1831-36. In 1835, wheat fell to 39s. 4d., 
the lowest price at which it had been sold for 54 years. Hopes 
revived that the improvements in farming had again placed pro- 
duction on a level with the growth of population. The Corn Laws 
were for the moment forgotten. But the unfavourable cycle of 
1837-41 again forced the question to the front. From 1839 onwards 
the Anti-Corn-Law League used its growing influence in favour 
of total repeal. The demand for cheap food grew more and more 
insistent from the labouring classes. Manufacturers echoed the 
cry, because cheap food meant a lower cost of production, and 
because food imports would be paid for by exported manufac- 
tures. Finally, the disastrous harvest of 1845 and the potato 
famine compelled the Government to yield. The " rain rained 
away " the Corn Laws. In 1846 the existing duties were modified 
according to a scale which was to continue in force till February 1, 
1849. After that date all kinds of foreign corn were to be admitted 
at the nominal fixed duty of Is. a quarter. That nominal duty 
was finally repealed in 1869. 



DIFFICULTIES OF COMMUNICATION 275 



CHAPTER XIII. 

HIGHWAYS. 

The local progress of farming, at the close of the eighteenth century, 
had been great ; but its general advance was still hampered by 
numerous hindrances. In many parts of England the inveterate 
preference for old-fashioned jiractices was slowly yielding to experi- 
ence of the results of more modern methods. Defects in the 
relations between owners and occupiers weve mitigated by the 
grant of leases, which secured to improvmg tenants a return for 
their outlay of money and labour. Obstacles presented by soil 
and climate, so far as they were capable of remedy, were in pro- 
cess of removal. Experience had sho^vn that sands might be 
fertilised, and the acidity of sour land corrected, by the use of 
the proper dressings, selected with judgment and apphed with 
perseverance ; that considerable tracts of moor, heath, and moss 
might be brought into profitable cultivation ; that fens and swamps 
might be drained ; that even the disadvantages of climate might 
be amehorated by plantations. But there remained a number 
of hindrances, which originated in the laws and customs of the 
country. To this class belonged difficulties of communication. 
The incidence of tithe on the produce of the land will be treated in 
a subsequent chapter. 

A generation famiHar with railways and good roads can hardly 
appreciate the obstacle to progress which was created by diffi- 
culties of transport and communication. Up to the middle of the 
eighteenth century, rivers had exercised the greatest influence on 
the development of inland trade centres. In few districts, and 
only in favourable seasons, could heavy goods be conveyed over 
the unmade roads. The command of water carriage was all- 
important. On straightening, deepening, or widening rivers so as 
to make them navigable, early legislators from the fifteenth century 



276 HIGHWAYS 

onwards, had mainly concentrated their efforts to improve internal 
communications. Not only inland towTis, but seaports themselves, 
often owed their early prosperity to their situation at the mouths 
of rivers. Bristol, or Hull, or Boston, or Lymi, for instance, 
collected and distributed produce along the course of the Severn 
and the W3^e, or the Trent and the Idle, or the Ouse, the Welland, 
and the Witham. Even London derived some of its pre-eminence 
from the produce which was carried over the Thames and its 
tributaries. To Liverpool the closing of the port of Chester by 
the sands which choked the Dee, and the opening up of the interior 
by making navigable the upper waters of the Mersey (1694), the 
Irwell and the Weaver (1720), proved the real starting-point of its 
trade. By means of these water-highways inland towns became 
seaports. They were the centres for collecting and distributing 
produce over the interior of the country. Fleets of trows, " bil- 
landers," floats, lighters, and barges were engaged in the trade. 
On the Severn, for instance, which was navigable as far as Welsh- 
pool, 376 vessels were employed in 1756. The famous Stourbridge 
Fair was suppHed with heavy goods by the Ouse, which enabled 
boats, each carrying 40 tons of freight, to load and unload at 
Cambridge. York was accessible to vessels of from 60 to 80 tons, 
and claimed rights of wi'eckage as a seaport. Exeter and Taunton 
carried on a home and foreign trade by means of the Exe and 
the Parret. Coal reached Hereford by the Wye. Coventry com- 
municated with the sea by means of the Warwickshire Avon. 
From Bawtry, on the Yorkshire Idle, were distributed the lead of 
Derbyshire, the edged tools of Sheffield, the iron goods of Hallam- 
shire, as well as the foreign goods Avhich entered the country at 
Hull. Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire shipped their barley 
and malt from Ware on the Lea. Gloucestershire cheesemakers 
sent their cheese to London dov\'n the Thames from Lechlade. 
Burslem wares were carried in pot-waggons or on pack-horses to 
Bridgnorth on the Severn. 

From utilismg the natural waterways of the country it seemed 
but a short step to supplementing them as arteries of trade by 
the construction of canals. Pioneers in the early stages of this 
movement were Sir Richard Weston, who in the reign of Charles I. 
canahsed the Wey, and Sir William Sandys, of Ombersley in 
Worcestershire, who in 1661 obtained extensive powers to cut 
new channels, and build locks on the Wye and the Lugg. More 



NAVIGABLE RIVERS AND CANALS 277 

extensive plans were floating in the minds of Francis Mathew ^ 
and Andrew Yarranton.^ Mathew in 1655 had laid before Cromwell 
a scheme for connecting London with Bristol, by the construction 
of a canal to join the Thames and the Avon. No notice seems to 
have been taken of the plan. Nor was his project more successful 
fifteen years later. " Many Lords and Gentlemen," says Yarranton, 
" were ingaged in it. . . . But some foolish Discourse at Coffee- 
houses laid asleep that design as being a thing impossible and 
impracticable." Yarranton himself proposed to make Banbury a 
great distributing centre by connecting it with the Severn and the 
Thames. At an estimated cost of £10,000, he planned to make 
the Cherwell navigable from Oxford to Banbury, and to cut a new 
channel from the latter place to Shipton-on-the-Stour, whence 
goods might be carried by the Avon into the Severn below Tewkes- 
bury. Both writers insist on the extreme isolation of inland 
districts, the need of supplying food to manufacturing centres, 
the prohibitive cost of conveying heavy goods by land, and the 
impassable nature of the roads for wheeled traffic. 

In canal construction England lagged far behind foreign countries, 
though useful work continued to be done in making existing rivers 
navigable. Thus the clothiers of Leeds and Wakefield found new 
and cheaper markets when communication with Hull by the Aire 
and the Calder was opened up in 1699 ; Preston gained its oppor- 
tunity for manufacturing development when the Douglas (1720) 
carried Wigan coal to the Ribble ; the connection of Sheffield with 
the Humber by means of the Don (1732) gave a fresh impulse to the 
cutlery trade. But rivers were unsatisfactory as carriers of goods. 
Subject to flood or drought, constantly liable to become choked, 
tortuous in their course, they were also limited in their range and 
left large districts untouched. If waterways were to be made 
efficient means of carriage, they must be permanently supplied 
with water, subject neither to deficiency nor excess, capable of 
being carried over or through natural obstacles in any direction 
required. 

In 1755 the Sankey Brook Canal brought the St. Helens coal- 
fields into direct communication with Liverpool by means of a 

^ The Opening of Rivers for Navigation, etc., by Francis Mathew, 1655. 
A Mediterranean Passage by Water from London to Bristol, etc., by Francis 
Mathew, 1670. 

* England' a Improvement by Sea and Land, by Andrew Yarranton Oent. 1677. 



278 HIGHWAYS 

new channel, fed with a continuous supply of water, and provided 
with a system of locks which overcame the difficulties of the descent 
into the valley of the Mersey. This channel was the first true 
canal, as distinguished from straightening the courses of rivers. 
Before the work was completed, the Duke of Bridgwater obtained 
the sanction of the legislature (1759) for the famous canal which 
bears his name. Brindley's triumph was the real starting-point of 
the movement. He was the engineer of numerous similar works. 
The Mersey and Trent Canal, for example, joined Liverpool and 
Hull, and thus united the ports of the East and the West. Branches 
were thrown out, which gradually linked together Liverpool, 
London, Bristol, Birmingham, and Hull by water. The develop- 
ment of inland navigation Avhich Brindley had begun was continued 
by Telford and others. The new means of transport powerfully 
influenced the progress of the industrial revolution. Between 1790 
and 1794 alone, 81 Canal Acts were obtained, and a canal mania 
was started, which was only paralleled by the railway mania of 
the last century. By 1834 England had been covered with a net- 
vvork of more than 4000 miles of canals and navigable rivers. 

To some extent the surface of the roads was saved by the sub- 
stitution of water-carriage for the convej^'ance of heavy goods. 
But the development of canal traffic did not always improve 
internal communications. The increased carriage of heavy goods, 
such as coal, iron, timber, lime, stone, salt, and corn, to and from 
the wharves, destroyed the roads in the neighbourhood. To some 
extent this extraordinary traffic was carried on railways, laid down 
by the canal companies, as feeders to their trade. ^ But the range 
was limited. It was plain that, if full advantage was to be taken 
of the new means of inland navigation, roads must be scientifically 
constructed to bear the increased traffic. In McAdam and Telford 
were found the exponents of this necessary science. The progress 
of enclosures also favoured road-improvement. So long as land 
lay unenclosed, travellers were allowed to deviate from the track 
to avoid the ruts worn by their predecessors. Thomas Mace 
(1675) 2 describes how land was " spoiled and trampled down in 
aU wide roads where coaches and carts take liberty to pick and 

^ See chapter xvii. pp. 350-3. 

* Profit, Conveniency, and Pleasure, to the Whole Nation, Being a Short 
Rational Discourse . . . concerning the Highways of England, by Thomas 
Mace (1676). 



ROMAN ROADS ^ 279 

chuse for their best advantages." A century later, a Reporter 

contrasts the state of a district near Norwich in the last decade of 

the eighteenth century with its condition before 1760 : " Thirty 

years ago," he says, " it was an extensive heath without either 

tree or shrub, only a sheep-walk to another farm. Such a number 

of carriages crossed it, that they would sometimes be a mile abreast 

of each other in search of the best track. Now there is an excellent 

turnpike road, enclosed on each side with a good quickset hedge, 

and the whole laid out in enclosures and cultivated in the Norfolk 

system in superior style." Instead of these common tracks, with 

their wide margins of deviation, enclosure Acts substituted defined 

and constructed roads. Not only was science needed for making 

new highways, but the existing machinery for maintaining those 

already in existence had broken down under the stress of modern 

needs. 

^Throughout the Middle Ages the great Roman roads were the main 

thoroughfares. Watling Street ran from Kent to Chester and York, 

branching northwards to Carlisle and Newcastle ; the Fosse Way 

crossed England from Bath to Lincoln ; Ermine Street led from 

London to Lincoln and thence to Doncaster and York ; Icknield 

Street, more difficult to trace, swept inland from Norwich, passed 

through Dunstable, and ultimately reached Southampton. For 

centuries they required and received little repair owing to the 

sohdity of their construction. A firm foundation of beaten earth 

was secured. On this were laid, first, large stones, often embedded 

in mortar ; then a layer of small stones mixed with mortar ; above 

these two layers, lime mixed with chalk and pounded brick, or with 

gravel, sand, and clay ; and finally the paved surface. 

Planned and built by the State, these Roman highways offered 

a striking contrast to the subsequent roads, which were laid out in 

haphazard fashion as need arose. The art of road-making was lost, 

or the cost beyond the reach of local effort. Unmetalled tracks 

crept along the edges of streams, which often afforded a better 

bottom than the ways themselves, or sought sound foothold for 

men and beasts across unenclosed land, or boldly kept on high ground 

to escape the bogs and quagmires. Gradually footways, horseways, 

and cartways ^ were levelled by traffic across the plains or hollowed 

^ The Romans recognised the same distinctions. The iter, actus, and via 
were the English footpath, bridle- way, and carriage road. Both in Roman and 
in English law the greater included the less, so that the via was open, not only 
to vehicles, but to foot-passengers and animals. 



280 HIGHWAYS 

through the hills. Besides the highways between town and town, 
each manor had its by-roads, leading from the village to the open 
fields, the commons, the mill, or the church. The ordinary principle 
which governed the repair of thoroughfares was that they should 
be maintained by those who had the use of them. The duty of 
maintaining communication between market towns rested on the 
inhabitants of the parishes through which the roads passed ; within 
the hmits of chartered towns it fell on the townsmen, on whom rates 
or tolls were sometimes levied. Local by-roads within the boun- 
daries of manors were repaired by the manorial tenantry as one of 
the conditions of their tenure, and they were bound to provide the 
necessary implements and labour. These obhgations were respec- 
tively enforced by county or municipal authorities or manorial 
courts. But road repair did not entirely depend on the performance 
of legal Uabilities. It was also enjoined as a religious duty. Travel- 
lers were classed with the sick and poor as objects of Christian charity. 
Indulgences were granted to offenders who gave their money or 
their labour for the construction or repair of roads and bridges. 
For the same object pious bequests were encouraged. Gifts of this 
kind occur as late as the sixteenth century, and in the reign of 
Edward VI. one of the enquiries made at the Visitations of Bishops 
was whether these bequests were administered according to the 
intentions of the donors. 

For a short period during the reign of Edward I., road improve- 
ment had received some attention from Government. When new 
ports, like those of Sandwich and Hull, were constructed, care was 
taken to j^rovide good approaches by land. An attempt was also 
made to safeguard the lives and property of travellers on the king's 
highway. Adjoining landowners were compelled by statute to 
clear all roads between market towns from trees and underwood to a 
space of 200 feet on either side. The object was not the preservation 
of the roads by the admission of hght and air, but the destruction 
of the lurking places of robbers. If any crime of violence was 
committed on a highway not properly cleared, the adjoining owner 
was held responsible. But the energies of Edward's successors 
were absorbed in other directions than the maintenance of rural 
roads. As the fourteenth century advanced, the general burden of 
taxation and the scarcity of labour increased the growing neglect 
of public highways. Agricultural changes told in the same direction. 
So long as lay and ecclesiastical nobles, in order to consume the 



ROADS IN TUDOR TIMES ^ 281 

produce of their estates, had travelled from manor to manor with 
their retinues, household furniture, and utensils, they had been 
interested in the means of transit. Their visits ceased when their 
lands were let on lease. At the same time the decay of the manorial 
organisation faciHtated the evasion by the tenants of duties which 
had ceased to be personally valuable to their lords. Roads, made at 
will, were repaired, or not, at pleasure ; everybody's business was 
nobody's business ; the parochial hability, like the manorial obhga- 
tion, was rarely and unsystematically enforced. Highways fell 
deeper into decay, and their neglect was increased by the cessa- 
tion of voluntary efforts, when services which mediaeval piety 
recognised as religious duties came to be regarded only as civil 
burdens. 

The condition of the roads across the Weald of Kent, at the open- 
ing of the Tudor period, was probably no worse than that of highways 
in other districts. Yet they are described as " right deep and 
noyous," only to be used at " great pains, peril and jeopardy." ^ 
The isolation of rural districts can hardly be pictured by the present 
generation. It restricted the agricultural use of the land, because 
the interchange of its products was difficult, and each district was 
compelled to gi'ow its own corn. At the same time, it was recognised 
that, in the interests of expanding trade, the provision of better 
means of transit was necessary. The first general Act of Parhament 
appHed to bridges and their approaches.^ Passed in 1530, the statute 
placed the county on the same footing with regard to bridges as 
that in which the parish alreadj^ stood to highways. It directed 
justices of the peace to enquire into the conditions of bridges in 
their districts, to ascertain what persons were liable for their main- 
tenance, or to levy a rate on the inhabitants for their repair and that 
of their approaches for 300 feet on either side. In 1555^ another 
general Act was passed, dealing with the roads from market town 
to market town, which it describes as " verie noysome and tedious 
to travell in and dangerous to all Passengers and Carriages." It 
applied to the discharge of parochial liabilities the same methods by 
which manorial tenants had met their local obhgations. Each 
parish was to elect two " honest persons " of the parish as " survey- 
ors and orderers," for the repair of the roads within its boundaries 

M 4 and 15 Hen. VIII. e. 6, Sections 1, 3. 

2 22 Hen. VIII. c. 5. 

" 2 and 3 Philip and Mary, e. 8. 



282 HIGHWAYS 

by compulsory labour. Four days of eight hours each ^ were 
appointed for the work, the parishioners providing carts, teams, 
implements, and labour, according to their means. Like other 
Tudor legislation, the Act failed in its administration. Though 
neglect to discharge the liability was punishable by fines, little 
effect was produced. 

After the Restoration further efforts were made to improve 
facihties of communication. Stage, or long, waggons had begun 
in 1564 to ply between the metropohs and the principal towns in the 
provinces ; private carriages were increasing ; about 1645 stage- 
coaches were established. TraveUing on wheels was recommended 
for its " admirable commodiousness," and many of those who thus 
traversed the roads to London were " persons of quality " who could 
make their influence felt. Some means, m addition to statute 
labour, was required to maintain the roads in repair for the increasing 
traffic. During the first ten years of the reign of Charles II. it 
seemed probable that this supplement would be provided by the 
development of highway rates, which had been introduced in 1656. 
Eventually a new auxihary to statute labour was devised, which 
arrested the growth of rates, and prolonged the life of the old 
system by a century and a half. In 1663 the first Turnpike Trust ^ 
was estabhshed on the Great North Road by the erection of toll- 
bars at Wadesmill, Caxton, and Stilton, and by the exaction of toll 
from those who used the highway. This portion of one of the 
principal roads in the country is described in the Act as " ruinous 
and almost impassable." The inhabitants of the adjoining parishes 
were too poor to put or keep the highway in repair, and though the 
Act did not reheve them from their hability, the tolls raised a fund 
toAvards the maintenance of the road. Other turnpike trusts were 
estabhshed on the same principle. Their creation was unpopular. 
Riots broke out, hke those subsequently associated with the name of 
Rebecca in Wales ; toll-bars were frequently pulled down and 
burned ; and the opposition was only checked by an Act passed in 
the reign of George II. (1728) which made their destruction a felony. 
Turnpike Trusts multiphed rapidly, till in 1760 it was true to say that 

" no cit, nor clown, 
Can gratis see the country or the town." 

1 In 1562, by 5 Eliz. c. 13, the " statute labour," as it was called, was in- 
creased from 4 to 6 days. 

« 15 Car. II. c. 1. 



THE PERILS OF TRAVELLING^ 283 

Travelling still continued to be a peril. The number of patents 
that were taken out to prevent coaches from overturning is some 
evidence of the risk. Nor were the inventions always ejBfective. 
They did not prevent George II. and his queen from being upset in 
1730 near Parsons Green on their way into London. In October, 1736, 
the queen was advised to leave Kensington Palace for St James's, 
because the road was so " infamously bad " as to separate her from 
her Ministers by " an impassable gulf of mud." If travelling was so 
difficult for royal personages over roads in the neighbourhood of 
London, the perils of penetrating rural districts may be imagined. 
In the winter months carriage traffic was suspended. Only horsemen 
could make their way. Judges and lawyers rode the circuits, 
chasing John Doe and Richard Roe from assize town to assize town 
on horseback. Few Quarter Sessions passed without some district 
being " presented " for non-repair of roads, and heavy were the 
fines inflicted by bruised and shaken judges, who, thinking that the 
majesty of the law was ill-supported by top-boots, endeavoured to 
reach their destination in carriages. 

Even after Turnpike Trusts were generally estabhshed, travelling 
still continued to be neither swift, nor easy, nor safe. Guide-posts 
were almost unkno^\Ti, and the way was frequently lost. In the 
reign of Charles II., the stage had taken two days to reach Oxford 
from London, and the journey to Exeter occupied four days. A 
century later, the one stage-coach, which pHed once a month 
between Edinburgh and London, accomphshed the journey in from 
twelve to fourteen days. Family coaches, lumbering and jolting 
over the uneven roads, for steel springs were not appHed to carriages 
before the middle of the eighteenth century, made twenty miles a 
day. They set out provisioned and armed as if for a siege. When 
Sir Francis Headpiece travelled to London, he carried with him in 
his coach " the family basket-hilt-sword, the Turkish scimetar, the 
old blunder-buss, a good bag of buUets, and a great horn of powder." ^ 
Such precautions were not always effectual against a well-mounted 
highwayman, expert in the use of handier weapons ; and the slow 
pace at which vehicles travelled, unless they were defended with 
determination, made them easy victims. 

Off the frequented lines of communication, and often even on 
these, the condition of the eighteenth century roads, as has been 

1 Vanbrugh's Journey to London, produced on the stage by Gibber, in 1728, 
under the title of the Provoked Husband. 



284 HIGHWAYS 

shown in a previous chapter, rendered traveUing in the winter months 
difficult, and sometimes, except for horsemen, impossible. But after 
1760 a determined effort was made at improvement. Here and there 
some local genius, Hke " Blind Jack " Metcalf of Knaresborough, 
had aheady anticipated the methods of Telford and McAdam. 
In other parts of England, the turnpike trusts were placing portions 
of the highways in better repair. But the districts for which they 
were formed were often too small to be useful. Thus the main road 
from Shrewsbury to Bangor (85 miles) was in the care of six trusts, 
most of them in debt, aU too poor to pay for skilled labour, and each 
too jealous of the others to co-operate. The multiphcation of these 
turnpike trusts, though it often defeated its own object, affords 
strong evidence of the extent to which pubhc attention had been 
called to the need for improved facilities of communication. 
Between 1760 and 1774 no less than 452 Turnpike Acts were passed, 
and in the sixteen years from 1785 to 1800 this number was increased 
by 643. Two General Highway Acts were passed in 1773 ^ which 
consohdated the previous legislation on the subject of parochial ha- 
bihty for road repair, transferred the appointment of surveyors to the 
justices of the peace out of Usts of names submitted by each parish, 
allowed the compulsory statute labour for six days to be commuted 
by money payments, and authorised the levy of a rate, not exceeding 
6d. in the pound, for the provision of road materials. In 1784 
Palmer organised the service of mail-coaches. But letters were often 
still left at inns on main thoroughfares, where they remained m the 
bar till the ink had faded and the wrapper had turned the colour 
of saffron. The arrival of the pedlar was still eagerly expected in 
country villages, where he did not always appear as the philosophical 
enthusiast of the poet's licence. Rather he was the milliner of rural 
beauties, the arbiter of fashion to village bucks, the newsagent of 
the alehouse pohtician, the retailer of the most recent gossip, the 
vendor of smuggled tea, the purveyor of the latest amorous ditty. 
He was typical of the times when villages were isolated, self-sufficing, 
dependent on his summer and winter circuits for their knowledge of 
the world beyond the parish boundaries. 

Both Young and Marshall note the improvement which was made 

during the last quarter of the eighteenth century in the roads of 

certain districts. Yet their writings, as well as the reports to the 

Board of Agriculture (1793-1815), afford abundant evidence that else- 

1 13 Geo. III. cc. 78 and 84. 



SLOW PROGRESS OF IMPROVEMENT 285 

where much remained to be done. For the slow progress made there 
were many reasons. Country gentlemen used the same arguments 
against new roads which were afterwards employed against railways. 
" Merry England " would be merry no longer if her highways ceased 
to be miry. They dreaded the disturbance of their game, feared the 
intrusion of town manners, resented the sacrifice of their interests 
to those of wealthy traders. As magistrates they were reluctant 
to enforce the law of road-repair against their own tenants. Statute 
labour was deservedly unpopular. Surveyors, forced into office 
against their will, only called upon their neighbours to fulfil their 
liabihties as a last resource, and at seasons when agricultural work 
was slack. Urban and rural interests were opposed. Market 
towns might demand metalled roads for the transport of their 
merchandise ; but self-sufiicing villages were content with the drift- 
ways which were sufficient to enable them to house their crops, and 
to drag their flour from the mill through the same ruts which their 
ancestors had worn. Even when a parish Avas active in road-repair, 
its energies were generally misdirected. Roads were unguarded at 
the sides. Drainage was often provided by cutting open grips across 
their surface. If any convexity was attempted, it was so exaggerated 
as to be dangerous ; the sides sloped like the roof of a house. Hence 
the whole traffic fell on the centre, which soon wore into ruts. Many 
roads were undrainable, because the continual scraping of mud from 
the surface had sunk them below the level of the adjoining land. 
Hence they were always wet, and, from the rapid decay of material, 
expensive to maintain. Where a parish was apathetic, the least 
possible mending was done in the worst jiossible way. A faggot, or a 
bundle of broom or heather, powdered with gravel, served to stop 
a bad hole ; if beyond repair by such means, mud, scraped from the 
sides of the roads and ditches, was thrown on the centre of the road, 
and into this bed was shot a cartload of large unbroken stones. Not 
infrequently the road material, raised and carted at the parish 
expense, missed its destination, and made good, not the road, but 
the gateways or the yard of some neighbouring farmer. 

The system of road maintenance was proving inadequate for 
modern requirements. Responsibility ceased at the parish boun- 
daries, and no uniformity was possible. The statute labour was 
everywhere enforced with difficulty. It was also exhausted at one 
particular season, and nothing more was done till the period recurred. 
It was a sj'^stem of occasional outlay without continuous repair. 



286 HIGHWAYS 

Surveyors were not appointed for their skill, but were compelled to 
serve against their will. The experience Avhich they gained in their 
twelve months' service was wasted by their retirement at the end of 
the year when their successors were appointed. Already in France, 
Pierre de Tr6saguet (1716-74) had set an example to European 
countries, laid down the principles of the construction of broken- 
stone roads, organised his corps of day-labourers, and substituted 
the principle of continuous upkeep for that of periodic repair. 
Already both Ireland and Scotland had gained a lead over England 
in the matter of road improvement. In Ireland statute labour was 
abolished in 1765,^ and road-making entrusted to the County Grand 
Juries. Arthur Young says that before the Act was passed, Irish 
roads, " like those of England, remamed impassable under the 
miserable pohce of the six days' labour ; . . . now the efEect in all 
parts of the Kingdom is so great, that I found it perfectly practicable 
to travel upon wheels by a map. I wdU go here, I will go there ; I 
could trace a route upon paper as wild as fancy could dictate ; 
and everywhere I found beautiful roads, without break or hindrance, 
to enable me to reahse my design." ^ In Scotland, in 1803, Com- 
missioners were appointed for making roads in the Highlands. 
The expense was defrayed in equal jjortions by grants from ParHa- 
ment and local contributions ; the assistance of Telford was secured, 
and more than 900 miles of good roads were constructed. 

England, however, still lagged behind. Various alterations in the 
law were proposed and discussed. It w^as suggested that the labour 
service should be commuted for a money pa3Tnent, and that, even 
if only a quarter of the equivalent were obtained in money, the roads 
would gain. On the other hand, it was said that commutation 
would be certainly unpopular with farmers, who would regard the 
pecuniary hability as a new tax. It was urged that large districts 
should be formed by uniting a number of parishes ; that surveyors 
should be appointed for their knowledge of road-making, and should 
be paid salaries ; or that, as Mace had suggested in 1675, " daymen " 
should be continuously employed upon the roads at weekly wages. 
It was not, however, till twenty years after the peace of 1815 that 
any substantial legislative changes were made. Before that time 
the science and practice, as well as the expense, of road-making and 
repair had made considerable advance. From 1811 onwards 
ParUamentary Committees sat almost continuously to hear evidence 

^ Irish Acts, 6 Geo. III. c. 14. ^ Tour in Ireland, part ii. p. 40. 



McADAM AND TELFORD ^ 287 

and to report. It was gradually realised that the construction of a 
good road required an unusual combination of practical and scientific 
knowledge, and that the task was not only above the abilities of 
inexperienced surveyors, but beyond the means of the inhabitants 
of an ordinary parish. Pubhc money Avas voted for the improvement 
of national highways, and the services of the most celebrated engineer 
of the day were enlisted in the work, Telford in 1814 was employed 
to make good the road from Glasgow to Carlisle and in the following 
year to reconstruct the road from Shrewsbury to Holyhead. In his 
opinion and practice, it was necessary to make a regular bottoming 
of rough close-set pavement, on which a hard, smooth, inelastic 
surface could be laid, so as to minimise the labour of traction by 
offering the least resistance. The rival system was advocated by 
Me Adam. To him the " Telford pavement " seemed umiecessary 
for the preparation of a suitable surface. In his view an elastic 
subsoil was even superior to a soHd foundation ; he preferred a bog 
to a rock, provided that the bog was sufficiently solid to bear a man's 
weight. As Surveyor-General of the Bristol roads (1815), he was 
aheady putting his theories into practice on an extensive scale. 
His practical success, his evidence before Parliamentary Committees, 
and his skill with the pen ^ persuaded the EngHsh pubhc of the sound- 
ness of his theory. But the battle was hotly contested, and the 
very heat of the controversy served a useful purpose. It kept the 
improvement of English roads prominently before the pubhc. 
Scientific opinion, here and abroad, was on the side of Telford ; 
but McAdam was the popular favourite. In 1827 he was appointed 
Surveyor-General of roads in Great Britain. His influence was 
paramount, and men, in their gratitude for the unwonted luxury of 
safe and smooth travelling in fast coaches, were not disposed to 
criticise too closely the scientific principles of the road magician. 
Turnpike tolls provided some of the cost of road maintenance, 
and served as auxiliaries to statute labour. For a time they satisfied 
the urgency of the need. But the heavy interest on the loans raised 
by the turnpike trustees, the excessive cost of management, the 
profits exacted by those who farmed the tolls, left, at the best, 
small margins for road expenditure. To increase the income, toll-bars 
were multiphed or scales of payment raised. The inequality of the 
burden was strongly felt. In one district, five tolls might be paid 

^ A Practical Essay of the Scientific Repair and Preservation of Public Roads 
(1819) ; Remarks on the Present System of Road-making (1820, 5th edition 1822). 



288 HIGHWAYS 

in twelve miles ; in another, thirty might be travelled without a 
single payment. The jfinancial chaos of the trusts, as well as the 
inadequacy of the statute labour, gave a fresh impulse to the 
ultimate triumph of the rival principle of a rate. Already Justices 
in Quarter Sessions had been empowered to levy a rate, assessed on 
the principle of the poor-rate, for general purposes of highway 
maintenance when other means proved insufficient, for the purchase 
of road material, and to buy land for the widening of highways. 
Already also the liabihty for statute labour might be compounded 
by the payment of a money equivalent. In 1835 these principles 
were extended by an Act ^ which aboHshed statute labour and 
substituted highway rates for the maintenance of all minor roads. 
The aboHtion of statute labour was a severe loss to the turnpike 
trusts, to whom the legislature still looked for the repair of important 
highways. In 1839, four years after the passing of the Highway 
Act, a Select Committee reported that in some instances the creditors 
of turnpike trusts had seized the tolls to secure payment of the 
interest on their mortgages, and that nothing was available from that 
source for road-repair. The development of railways struck the 
trusts another blow, for the decay of the coaching-traffic deprived 
them of one of the chief sources of their revenue. Their financial 
position went from bad to worse. Drastic action was needed. 
The powers of the Home Office to refuse the renewal of Turnpike 
Acts were in 1864 transferred to a Select Committee of the House of 
Commons. The new authority acted vnth vigour. Roads were 
dis-turnpiked at the average rate of 1,500 miles a year. 

The extinction of turnpike trusts threw upon local ratepayers a 
heavy burden. Their existence had not reHeved the parish from its 
old hability : their removal revived that liability in the form of 
increased rates. In rare instances, individuals were liable by tenui'e 
or prescription for the repair of portions of pubUc roads. But, 
speaking generally, the parish Avas always responsible for the main- 
tenance of the highways Avithin its area. For a time, turnpike roads 
had been partly maintained by the tolls which the trustees were 
authorised to raise. Yet whenever the trusts neglected their work, 
became bankrupt, or were extmguished, it was the inhabitants of the 
parish, not the trustees, w^ho were subject to indictment for failure to 
maintain the roads. Tolls were subsidiary to local labour^ and local 
rates ; they were substitutes for neither. Now that they were 
1 5 and 6 Wm. IV. c. 50. 



HIGHWAY DISTRICTS AND MAIN ROADS 289 

withdrawn, the whole burden fell on the locahty. Some rehef was 
urgently needed. In order to distribute the burden more equitably, 
the parishes were grouped into Highway Districts. Within each 
area the cost was equahsed. But parochial districts remained 
responsible for the maintenance of roads within their areas, legally 
liable for the extra burden if the expense was disproportion- 
ately heavy, legally entitled to the special benefit if the cost was 
disproportionately hght. Further rehef to local ratepayers was 
required. It came in the form of excepting main roads from the 
general law of district habiUty. Under the Highways and Loco- 
motives Acts Amendment Act, 1878, the turnpike roads, whose 
trusts had been dissolved, were made main roads, and half the cost 
of their maintenance was transferred to the county authority, then 
Quarter Sessions. The remainder of the habihty for the repair of 
main roads still rested on the parochial districts, a grant-in-aid 
being made by the Government. Under the Local Government 
Act, 1888, the County Council became the county authority, and 
parochial districts were reheved of the remaining half of their habihty 
for the maintenance of main roads, wherever situated, and the cost 
of their upkeep was transferred to the county generally. But 
under the PubHc Health Act, 1875, the urban authorities were 
already responsible for the maintenance of highways within their 
areas. The effect of the two Acts of 1875 and 1888 was that urban 
authorities might elect either to maintain the main roads within 
their area themselves, or to call upon the County Council to do the 
work. If they elected to maintain the roads themselves, the 
measure of the County Council's habihty was a contribution towards 
the cost properly incurred in the maintenance and reasonable 
improvement of the main roads within the area. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
THE RURAL POPULATION. 1780-1813. 

Effect of enclosures on the rural population ; no necessary reduction in the 
number of small owners, but rather an increase ; consolidation of farms, 
either by purchase from small owners, or by tlirowing tenancies together ; 
the strict letter of the law ; small occupiers become landless labourers ; 
depopulation of villages when tillage was abandoned for pasture ; scarcity 
of employment in open-field villages ; the literary controversy ; the mate- 
rial injury inflicted upon the rural poor by the loss of the commons ; no 
possible equivalent in cash-value : the moral injury ; the simultaneous 
decay of domestic industries; the rapid rise after 1790 in the price of 
provisions ; a substantial advance in agricultural wages. 

During the thirty-three years from 1780 to 1813, the industrial 
revolution, which in agriculture was expressed by the new methods 
and spirit of farming, influenced rural life in two opposite directions. 
Far-reaching changes were made which were justified, and even 
demanded, by national exigencies. As, in trade, the capitahst 
manufacturer displaced the smaU master-workman and domestic 
craftsman, so, in agriculture, land was thrown together in large 
holdings at the expense of small occupiers. Both manufacture and 
agriculture became businesses which required the possession of 
capital. Without money, Avorkers, whether in trade or on land, lost 
the prospect of themselves becoming masters or employers. But 
the same changes which brought unexampled prosperity to land- 
owTiers and large tenant-farmers, combined with other causes to 
plunge the rest of the rural population into almost unparalleled 
misery. The rapid growth of manufacturing towns created a 
new demand for bread and meat ; it raised the rents of land- 
owners ; it swelled the profits of farmers. For a long series 
of yeats the war, by practically excluding foreign com, main- 
tained a high level of agricultural prices in spite of increased 
production. But to labourers who neither o"WTied nor occupied land, 
the rise of prices brought no compensating advantages. On the 



AN AGRARIAN REVOLUTION ^ 291 

contrary, they paid more dearly for aU necessaries of subsistence, 
and the increased cost of living was not adequately met by a corre- 
sponding rise in wages. At the same time, the steps which were 
required for the adoption of those agricultural improvements, by 
which the manufacturing industries as well as large owners and 
occupiers of land were profiting, multipHed the numbers and increased 
the sufferings of landless labourers. The extinction of open-field 
farms reduced numbers of small occupiers to the rank of hired wage- 
earners ; the appropriation of commons deprived many cottagers, 
not only of free fuel, but of the means of supplementing wages by 
the profits of their live-stock, their poultry, and their geese. In the 
eighteenth as in the sixteenth century it was still partially true that 
" enclosures make fat beasts and lean poor people." 

The structure of rural society was affected to its very foundations \.ifif I 
by the agrarian revolution which was in progress. A great popula- 
tion, standing on the verge of famine, and beginning to gather in 
industrial centres, cried aloud for food. Technical improvements in 
farming had been tested, which promised to supply the new demand 
for bread and meat, if only free play w^ere allowed to the modem 
methods of production. It was from this point of view that agri- 
cultural experts, almost to a man, were unanimous in requiring the 
removal of mediaeval obstacles to progress, and the addition of 
every possible acre to the cultivated area. As open-field arable 
farms were broken up, as pasture-commons were divided, as wastes 
were brought iuto cultivation, the face of the countrj^ altered. The 
enclosing movement was attacked on various grounds. To its 
effects were attributed the disappearance of the yeomanry, using 
the words ia the strict sense of farmer-owners ; the monopoly oij^^, ^cX^ 
farms, or, in other words, the consolidation of a number of holdings !<; 
iato single occupations ; the depopulation of rural villages ; the 
material and moral loss which was alleged to be inflicted on the poor. 
Round these different points raged the contest of the latter half of 
the eighteenth century. Meanwhile the work of enclosure went on 
without interruption. At the present day the changes seem to have 
been surprisingly rapid ; but to men who were hving under the stress 
of war and scarcity, they appeared almost criminally slow. They so 
appeared to William Marshall, perhaps the most experienced and 
the least bigoted of the agricultural observers of the day. Writing 
in 1801, before the full pressure of famine prices had been felt, he 
says : " Through the uncertainty and expense attending private 



292 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

acts, a great portion of the unstinted common lands remain nearly 
as nature left them ; appearing in the present state of civihsation and 
science, as filthy blotches on the face of the country ; especially when 
seen under the threatening clouds of famine which have now 
repeatedly overspread it." ^ 

It does not appear that the necessary result of the enclosing 
movement was to diminish the number of occupying owners. On 
the contrary, the first efifect of an enclosure was to increase the free- 
holders, smce rights of open arable field occupation and of pasture 
common were often replaced by allotments of land in separate 
ownership. After 1689, the decline in the number of owners of 
small estates begins to be noted by contemporary writers.^ "At 
the Revolution," says a " Suffolk Gentleman,"^ " there existed a 
race of Men in the Country besides the Gentlemen and Husbandmen, 
called Yeomanry, Men who cultivated their own property, consisting 
chiefly of farms from forty to fourscore pounds a year . . . the 
Pride of the Nation in War and Peace . . . hardy, brave, and of 
good morals." Their alleged disappearance can only have been 
remotely due to enclosure, if, as the " Suffolk Gentleman " says, 
" by the influx of riches and a change of manners, they were nearly 
annihilated in the year_1750." On the other hand, a considerable 
body of evidence exists to show that, after the accession of George 
III., a reaction had set in, and that small owners were not only 
numerous, but actually increasing in numbers. Thus Marshall, 
writing in 1790 of small freeholders both in Yorkshire (Vale of 
Pickering) and in Leicestershire, says : " Some years back, the same 
species of frenzy, — Terramania — showed itself here, as it did in 
other districts. Forty years purchase was, then, not unfrequently 
given."'* The Reports to the Board of Agriculture (1793-1815) 
show that in many parts of the country small owners not only held 
their ground, but once more were buying land. Thus of the north- 
eastern counties generally, Young ^ states that " farmers have been 
very considerable purchasers of land." Norfolk (1804) is said to 

^ The Appropriation and Inclosure of Commonable and Intermixed Lands 
(1801). 

^ Authorities are quoted in The Disappearance of the Small Landowner, 
by the Rev. A. H. Johnson (1909), pp. 136-8. 

^ Letter to Sir T. C. Bunbury, Bart., on the Poor Rates and the High Price of 
Provisions (1795). 

* Rural Economy of the Midland Counties, vol. i. p. 16. 

* Young's Hertfordshire (1804), p. 18. 



OCCUPYING OWNERS ^ 293 

contain " estates of all sizes, from nearly the largest scale to the little 
freehold ; one of £25,000 a year ; one of £14,000 ; one of £13,000 ; 
two of £10,000 ; many of about £5,000 ; and an increasing number 
of all smaller proj)ortions." ^ In Suffolk (1797) " the rich yeomanry '' 
are described as " very numerous . . . farmers occupjdng their own 
lands, of a value rising from £100 to £400 a year." ^ In Essex (1807), 
" there never was a greater proportion of small and moderate- 
sized farms, the property of mere farmers, who retain them in their 
own immediate occupation, than at present. Such has been the 
flourishing state of agriculture for twenty or thirty years past, that 
scarcely an estate is sold, if divided into lots of forty or fifty to two 
or three hundred a year, but is purchased by farmers. . . . Hence 
arises a fair prospect of landed property gradually returning to a 
situation of similar possession to what it was a hundred or a hundred 
and fifty years ago, when our inferior gentry resided upon their 
estates in the country." ^ 

In the South-Eastern and East Midland counties, no marked 
decrease in the number of small estates is noticed. " One third " 
of Berkshire ^ is said to have been occupied in 1813 by the proprietors 
of the soil. Owners of landed property from £200 to £600 a year 
were " very numerous." Oxfordshii-e (1794) contained " many 
proprietors of a middhng size, and many small proprietors, par- 
ticularly in the open fields." ^ In Nottinghamshire (1798) " some 
considerable, as well as inferior yeomen occupy their own lands." ^ 
Of late years in Hampshire (1813) "a considerable subdivision of 
property has taken place." Speaking of the farmers on the chalk 
hiUs of the county, the Reporter says that " many of them are the 
possessors of small estates which their thrifty management keeps 
upon the increase." '^ In Kent, up to at least 1793, the number of 
owners of land seemed annually on the increase, " by the estates 
which are divided and sold to the occupiers. There is no description 
of persons who can afford to give so much money for the purchase 
of an estate as those who buy for their own occupation. Many in 
the eastern jDart of this county have been sold, within these few 
years, for forty, and some for fifty years purchase, and upwards." ^ 

1 Young's Norfolk (1804), p. 17. ^ Young's Suffolk (1797), p. 8. 

3 Young's Essex (1807), vol. i. pp. 39, 40. 

* Mavor's Berkshire (1808), p. 113. ^ Davis' Oxfordshire (1794), p. 11. 

8 Lowe's Nottinghamshire (1798), p. 8. 

' Vancouver's Hampshire (1813), pp. 51, 80. » Boys' Kent (1796), p. 26. 



294 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

In the West Midland and South- Western district, small owners 
were at least holding their own. In North Wilts (1794), where a 
considerable number of enclosures had been made, " a great deal of 
the property has been divided and sub-divided, and gone into the 
hands of the many." ^ Brent Marsh in Somersetshire (1797) was a 
district of 20,000 acres which the stagnant waters rendered un- 
wholesome to man and beast. Within the last twenty years much of 
this land had been enclosed and drained under a variety of Acts of 
ParKament. " Scarcely a farmer," says the Reporter, " can now 
be found who does not possess a considerable landed property ; and 
many, whose fathers hved in idleness and sloth, on the precarious 
support of a few half -starved cows, or a few limping geese, are now in 
affluence, and blessed with every needful species of enjoyment." ^ 
Devonshire (1794) continued to be a county of small properties.^ 
In Gloucestershire (1807), " the number of yeomen who possess free- 
holds, of various value, is great, as appears from the Sheriff's return 
of the poll at the election for a county member in 1776, when 5790 
freeholders voted, and the number since that period is much in- 
creased." ^ Landed property in Shropshire (1803) is " considerably 
divided. . . . The number of gentlemen of small fortune living on 
their estates, has decreased ; their descendants have been clerg5nnen 
or attornies, either m the country, or shopkeepers in the to^\Tis of 
their o\^ti county ; or more probably in this county emigrated to 
Birmingham, Liverpool, to Manchester, or to London ; but then 
the opulent farmer, who has purchased the farm he hves upon . . . 
is a character that has increased." ^ 

The North and North- Western districts afford similar evidence, 
though in two counties a decrease is conspicuous. In Staffordshire 
(1813) the best and most improving farmers were " the proprietors 
of 200 or 300 acres of land, who farm it themselves." ^ Derbyshire 
(1794) possessed numerous small occupiers, who eked out the profits 
of the land by mining, spinning, and weaving ; but there vvere also 
occupiers of another description, " very properly styled yeomen ; 
men cultivating their own estates with a sufficient capital." ' In 
Cheshire (1808) " the number of small land-owners is not apparently 
less than in other counties. The description of this latter class has, 

1 BaviayWiltshire (1794), p. 8. ^Billingsley's Somersetshire (1797), pp. 166-73, 
^ Fraser's Devonshire (1794), p. 17. * Rudge's Oloucestershire (1807), p. 34. 
» Plymley's Shropshire (1803), p. 90. ^ Pitt's Staffordshire, (1813), p. 20. 
' Brown's Derbyshire (1794), p. 14. 



WESTMORELAND " STATESMEN "\ 295 

however, been very much altered of late years. From the advan- 
tages which have been derived from trade, and from the effects of 
the increase of taxes, which have prevented a man Hving with the 
same degree of comfort on the same portion of land he could for- 
merly, many of the old owners have been induced to sell their estates ; 
and new proprietors have spread themselves over the county, very 
different in their habits and prejudices." ^ In Lancashire (1795) 
" the yeomanry, formerly numerous and respectable, have greatly 
diminished of late, but are not yet extinct ; the great wealth, which 
has in many instances been so rapidly acquired by some of their 
neighbours, and probably heretofore dependants, has offered suffi- 
cient temptation to venture their property in trade, in order that 
they might keep pace with these fortunate adventurers. . . . Not 
only the yeomanry, but almost all the farmers, who have raised 
fortunes by agriculture, place their children in the manufacturing 
hne." 2 "A large proportion of the county of Westmoreland," says 
the Reporter,^ " is possessed by a yeomanry, who occupy small 
estates of their own, from £10 to £50 a year." These owners, as 
distinguished from tenant-farmers, were called " statesmen. They 
live poorly and labour hard ; and some of them, particularly in the 
vicinity of Kendall, in the intervals of labour from agricultural 
avocations, busy themselves in weaving stuffs for the manufacturers 
of that town. . . . This class of men is daily decreasing. The turn- 
pike roads have brought the manners of the capital to this extremity 
of the kingdom. The simphcity of ancient times is gone. Finer 
clothes, better dwellings, and more expensive viands, are now sought . 
after by all. This change of manners, combined with other 
circumstances which have taken place within the last forty years, has 
compelled many a statesman to sell his property, and reduced him to 
the necessity of working as a labourer in those fields, which, perhaps, 
he and his ancestors had for many generations cultivated as their 
own." "A considerable part of the West Riding " (of Yorkshire), 
in 1799, " is possessed by small proprietors, and this respectable 
class of men, who generally farm their own lands, are as numerous 
in this district as in any other part of the Klingdom." ^ In the North 
Riding (1800), " the size of estates is very variable ; about one-third 
of it is possessed by yeomanry . . . much the largest proportion of 

1 Holland's Cheshire (1808), p. 79. ^ Holt's Lancashire (1795), p. 13. 

aPringle's Westmoreland (1794), pp. 18, 40. 

* Brown's West Riding of Yorkshire (1799), p. 7. 



296 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

the dales of the moorlands is in the possession of yeomanry, rarely 
amounting to £150 per annum." ^ The Reporter asks " the common 
question, whether the number of the yeomanry increases or 
diminishes. . . . In a country Mke this, which is merely agricultural, 
I should suspect them to increase, in consequence of large properties 
having in late years been sold in parcels, and there being but few 
instances of gentlemen already possessed of considerable estates, 
making large purchases." 

The Reports to the Board of Agriculture show that small owners 
were still numerous in many counties, and were increasing in Norfolk, 
Essex, in Hampshire, and Kent, in North Wilts, Somerset, Gloucester- 
shire, Shropshire, and the North Riding of Yorkshire. They were 
dwindUng in Lancashire, which was rapidly developing as a manu- 
facturing centre, and in Westmoreland, where the hard penurious 
Uves of the older race of statesmen were not congenial to their 
descendants. In Hertfordshire farmers were not buying land, urJike 
their brethren in the eastern counties ; ^ but possibly the competi- 
tion of city merchants gave land in the neighbourhood of London a 
residential value. In Warwickshire (1794) it is definitely stated that 
consolidation of farms was driving occupiers off the land. The 
Reporter is speaking of open fields " in the southern and eastern 
parts of this county," which had been enclosed, and mostly conver- 
ted into pasture. " These lands, bemg now grazed, want much fewer 
hands to manage them than they did in their former open state. 
Upon all enclosures of open-fields, the farms have generally been 
made much larger ; from these causes, the hardy yeomanry of 
country villages have been driven for employment into Birmingham, 
Coventry, and other manufacturing towns, whose flourishing trade 
has sometimes found them profitable employment." ^ But though 
in this passage the word " yeomanry " * is used, it by no means 

1 Tuke's NoHh Riding (1800), pp. 23, 28. ^ Young's Hertfordshire (1804), p. 18. 

^ Wedge's Warwickshire (1794), p. 20. 

* The word " yeoman," which certainly included leaseholders for lives, and 
copyholders, was not confined to owners of land which they cultivated with 
their own hands, without being entitled to a crest. Bacon [Works, vol. vi. 
p. 95) defines the English yeomanry as " the middle people between gentlemen 
and peasants," many of them hving on " tenancies for years, lives and at 
will." Latimer's " father was a yeoman, but had no land of his own." He 
rented his occupation at £4 a year, and was a tenant-farmer. Blackstone 
uses the word as equivalent to quahfied rural voters (Commentaries, bk. i. ch. 
12). The definite restriction of the word to farmer- owners is a comparatively 
modern usage belonging to the nineteenth century. See Dictionary of Political 
Economy, s.v. Yeoman. 



PASTURE RIGHTS \ 297 

follows that it is employed in the strict sense of occupiers who owned 
the land which they cultivated themselves. More probably it bears 
the looser meaning of " open-field farmers," with all their picturesque 
varieties of land tenure. Be this as it may, the evidence of the 
Reports is strong as to the general conditions of the country. In 
the period which they cover, and for a few years before, no great 
inroad had been made on the numbers of small oAvners. No neces- 
sary connection can, therefore, be established between the break-up 
of open-field farms and the alleged disappearance of farmer-owners. 
The passage quoted from the Warwickshire Report indicates the 
lines on which the conflicting assertions of advocates and opponents 
of enclosures may be reconciled. The consequences, and often the 
objects, of the extinction of the system of intermixed arable strips 
on the open-fields, and of the partition of the pasture-commons were, 
generally speaking, the consohdation of larger holdings in the 
separate occupation of individuals. The viUage farm, as has been 
previous^ stated, < consisted of two parts. There was the arable 
land, cultivated in'^^termixed strips ; there were the grazing rights 
exercised over the pasture commons. Both in legal theory and as 
a historical fact, only the partners in the cultivation of the tillage 
land were entitled to the pasture rights, which were limited to each 
individual by the size of his arable holding. Outside this close 
corporation any persons who turned in stock were trespassers ; they 
encroached, not only on the rights of the owaier of the soil, but on 
the rights of those arable farmers to whom the herbage belonged. 
Strangers might be able to estabhsh their rights ; but the burden 
of proof lay upon them. Similarly, it was only by long usage that 
occupiers who rented ancient cottages could exercise pasture rights, 
unless they also occupied arable land with their houses. The 
statute of Ehzabeth (31 Ehz. c. 7, 1589) which ordered that four 
acres of land should be attached to each cottage let to agricultural 
labourers, evidently refers to four acres of tillage. If no arable land 
was attached to the cottage, the occupier might enjoy the right of 
providing himseK with fuel, but he could not turn out stock. It 
was on these strict fines that enclosure proceeded, and one of its 
promised advantages was the power of deahng mth compact blocks 
of land. In pursuance of this poficy, Edward Laurence^ in 1727, 
instructs his steward to purchase " all the Freeholders out as soon as 
possible " ; to " convert copyholds for fives into leaseholds for 
lives " ; to " get rid of Farms of £8 or £10236^ annum, always suppos- 



298 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

ing that some care be taken of the famihes " ; to " lay all the small 
Farms, let to poor indigent People, to the great ones," not forgetting 
that " it is much more reasonable and popular to stay tiU such Farms 
fall into Hand by Death." ^ This poHcy of substituting one large 
tenant for several small occupiers was generally pursued. Beyond 
possibihty of dispute the Reports to the Board of Agriculture prove 
the tendency towards that " engrossment " of farms which Tudor 
writers denounced .^ 

The consohdaticn of holdings affected the old occupiers in very 
different ways. Where land was held by freeholders, copyholders of 
inheritance, or leaseholders for Hves with outstanding terms, the 
process of collecting large areas in the hands of one owner could 
only be effected by purchase. On the enclosure of an open-field 
farm with a common attached, each proprietor had received a 
compact block, representing his intermixed arable strips, and an 
allotment corresponding in value to his pasture rights. Sometimes 
the area was so small as not to pay the cost of fencing ; it was sold 
at once, often before the award was published. In some cases, the 
rising standard of Hving, the loss of their domestic industries, the 
attractions of the rapid fortunes realised in trade, the temptation of 
the high prices which land commanded during the war, induced small 
owners to sell their estates. Others who for a time clung to their 
property found themselves, at a later stage, compelled to part with 
it by the increase in taxation, by the enormous rise in the poor rates, 
by the pressure of mortgages contracted for additional purchases, 
jointures, and portions, or by the fluctuations of agricultural prices, 
or by the failure of banks. The period at which farmer-owners 
diminished most rapidly in numbers was between the years 1813 
and 1835. " 

Beyond the classes whose occupation of land or rights of com- 
mon were of an independent or a permanent nature, no claim was, 
as a rule, recognised by enclosure commissioners. If any compensa- 
tion was made, it was on voluntary and charitable hues. The 
strict letter of the law was generally followed. Occupiers of arable 

^ Duty of a Steivard to his Lord, pp. 37, 60, 65, 35. 

* Thomas Wright, in The Monopoly of Small Farms a great cause of the 
present Scarcity (1795), p. 9, urges the formation of societies to purchase large 
estates, divide them into small farms, and let or sell them to small farmers. 
" It is computed," writes the author of A Plan for Relieving the Rates by Cottage 
Acres, etc. (1817), " that since the year 1760 there have been upwards of forty 
thousand small farms monopolised and consolidated into large ones and as 
many cottages annihilated." 



RURAL DEPOPULATION \ 299 

land, whose tenure depended on the will of the o^vner from whom 
their rights were derived, had no independent or permanent title 
to the strips which they cultivated, or to the common of pasture 
which they had enjoyed in virtue of their arable holdings. Many 
of them were offered no chance of renting land under the new system. 
If the holdings were throwTi together, and let to a farmer with 
sufficient capital, the previous occupiers were at once reduced to 
landless labourers. If the open-field farmer was allowed to remain 
in the separate occupation of a compact holding, formed out of his 
arable strips and commuted common rights, he was often ham- 
pered by msufficient grass, by scanty capital, by the novelty of 
his new position, by ignorance of any but the traditional practices 
of farming. He went from bad to worse, and was in the end com- 
pelled to surrender his land and compete for employment for 
wages. Cottagers, who occupied at a yearly rent the ancient 
cottages to which common rights were attached, received no 
compensation for the loss of rights which they only exercised as 
tenants. Squatters, who had encroached on the wastes and com- 
mons, and had not made good their titles by prescriptive occupa- 
tion, were evicted. Whether the village was depopulated by the 
change or not, mainly depended on the use to which the enclosed 
land was put.^ If, as in the Warwickshire case, the tillage was 
converted into pasture, employment was reduced, and the rural 
population decreased. When, on the other hand, the breadth of 
tillage was either maintained or extended, and when the modern 
improvements in farming were introduced, there was an increase 
in employment and also in numbers. 

It would be a mistake to suppose that village farms created a 
demand for agricultural labour, or ofifered facihties for acquiring 
land to increasing numbers. The contrary w;as the case. The 
open-field system was inelastic, adapted for a stationary popula- 
tion, dependent for the emplojanent of surplus numbers on the 
large enclosed farms of the neighbourhood, or on the practice of 
domestic handicrafts, eked out by common-rights exercised under 
legal titles or by successful encroachments. The smaller occupiers, 
their wives and famihes, tilled their holdings for themselves ; the 
common herdsman, shepherd, and swineherd tended their hve-stock. 

1 The question of depopulation is discxassed in William Wales' Inquiry into 
the Present State of Population in England and Wales (1781), and in the Rev. 
John Howlett's Enquiry into the Influence which Enclosures have had upon the 
Population of England (1786). 



300 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

On middle-sized occupations, servants in husbandry, annually 
hired at the fairs for fixed yearly wages, and boarded and lodged 
in the house, did the work q1 the farm. Except at harvest there 
was little demand for day-labour. Threshing, the most unwhole- 
some of rural occupations, was practically the only winter employ- 
ment. On the open-fields, there were no quickset hedges to plash, 
or trim, or weed ; no ditches to scour ; no drains to maintain. 
There were no drilled crops to keep clean ; turnips were seldom 
grown, and beans rarely hoed. This scarcity of constant, and 
especially of winter, emplo3mient, which will probably be reproduced 
under the rule of small holdings, partly explains the slow growth 
of rural population. It also emphasises the value to day-labourers 
of commons and domestic handicrafts. Without them it is difficult 
to understand how agricultural labourers, who were not partners 
in village farms, even existed. " In hay and harvest time," writes 
Forster,^ "it is inconceivable what numbers of tradesmen and 
handicraftsmen flock into the country." " If," says Stone, " the 
farmers in the most unenclosed counties . . . where there are no 
manufactories, could get no further assistance during their harvest 
than from their own inhabitants, their grain would frequently be 
spoiled." 2 To the same effect wrote the Reporters to the Board 
of Agriculture. Open-field farmers were in harvest dependent on 
migratory labour. In unenclosed counties, says the Report to 
the Board for Huntingdonshire, very httle emplojonent of a constant 
kind was given to labourers, who stop with the farmers to help 
thresh out then grain in the winter, and " leave for more cultivated 
counties where labour is more required." The open-field farmer of 
the county depended for harvesting on " the wandering Irish, 
manufacturers from Leicestershire and other distant counties." 
The same was said to be true of Bedfordshire and Cambridgeshire. 
In Wiltshire, the crops were harvested by taskers " from the more 
populous parts of the county or from Somersetshire, or other 
neighbouring counties." ^ In the Isle of Wight, during the harvest 
of 1793, there were " from 600 to 700 " labourers employed " from 
Dorsetshire and West Somerset." It illustrates the times to add 
that, as there was a hot press out for the Navy, they came and 
went with a pass from the Government.* In Herefordshire the 

^ Enquiry into the Present High Price of Provisions (1767). 

2 Suggestions, etc., p. 31. * Davis' Wiltshire (1794), p. 89. 

^ Driver's Hampshire (1794), p. 65. 



RURAL DEPOPULATION ^ 301 

crops were harvested by Welshmen from Cardiganshire, men 
owning one horse between four or five, riding bare-backed, turn 
and turn about, and " covering great distances with extraordinary 
speed." 1 ^ 

Enclosed counties where tillage was maintained, therefore, 
already afforded larger and more constant emplojonent than unen- 
closed counties. StiU greater was the demand for labour, where 
the improved practices had been adopted. If, however, the 
enclosed arable land was laid doA^Ti to grass, the opposite effect 
was produced. Up to the last decade of the eighteenth century, 
it is probable that open arable farms, especially in the Midland 
counties, were mainly enclosed for conversion to pasture. In the 
later stages of the Napoleonic wars this tendency to grass-farming 
was not only checked, but violently reversed, and large tracts of 
pasture were ploughed for corn. Yet, during the first thirty years 
of the reign of George III., the occupiers of village farms had 
reason to fear, not only loss of their holdings, but scarcity of employ- 
ment. Anonymous pamphlets are not the most rehable evidence ; 
but the " Country Gentleman" ^ is quoted by the Board of Agriculture 
with approval. His description of the dishke and alarm with which 
schemes of enclosure were regarded by the rural population may 
therefore be accepted as true : — " the great farmer dreads an 
increase of rent, and being constrained to a system of agriculture 
which neither his inclination or experience would tempt him to ; 
the small farmer, that his farm will be taken from him and con- 
sohdated with the larger ; the cottager not only expects to lose 
his commons, but the inheritable consequences of the diminution 
of labour, the being obhged to quit his native place in search of 
work." Their fears were often justified. Many an open-field 
farmer verified the truth of the " Country Gentleman's " conclusion 
that, after enclosure, " he must of necessity give over farming, and 
betake himself to labour for the support of his family." Hundreds 
of cottagers, deprived of the commons, experienced that lack of 
rural employment which drove them into the towns in search of 
work. To make the lot of these " reduced farmers " as easy as 
possible, he recommended that a " sufficient portion of land " 
should be attached to their cottages to enable them to keep a cow 

1 Clark's Herefordshire (1794), p. 29. 

' The Advantages and Disadvantages of enclosing Waste Lands and Common 
Fields, by a Country Gentleman (1772), pp. 8, 32. 



302 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

or two. With the gloomy forebodings of the " Country Gentleman " 
may be contrasted the triumphant hopefulness of Arthur Young. 
Both wrote at the same date ; yet the gloom of the one and the 
hopes of the other were equally well founded Ln the districts to which 
they respectively refer. What, asks Young, will opponents " say 
to the inclosures in Norfolk, Suffolk, Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire, 
Lincolnshire, Yorkshire, and all the northern counties ? What say 
they to the sands of Norfolk, Suffolk, and Nottinghamshire, which 
yield corn and mutton and beef from the force of INCLOSURE 
alone ? What say they to the Wolds of York and Lincoln, which 
from barren heaths at Is. per acre are by INCLOSURE alone 
rendered profitable farms ? . . . What say they to the vast 
tracts in the peak of Derby which by INCLOSURE alone 
are changed from black regions of hng to fertile fields covered 
with cattle ? What say they to the improvements of moors in 
the northern counties, where INCLOSURES alone have made 
those countries smile with culture which before were dreary as 
night ? " 1 

In 1774, when both Arthur Young and the " Country Gentleman " 
were writing, improved methods of arable farming and the use of 
roots, clover, and artificial grasses had not extended beyond a few 
favoured districts ; corn and cattle were still treated as distinct 
departments of farming, impossible on the same land ; the ten- 
dency was still strong to convert arable land into pasture ; the 
science of stock-breeding and stock-rearing was still in its infancy ; 
improved means of communication had not reHeved farmers in 
almost every district from the necessity of devoting the greater 
part of their holdings to corn-growing, or enabled them to put 
their land to the best use by facilitating the interchange of arable 
produce ; above all, no urgent demand for meat and milk, as weU 
as bread, was as yet made by a rapidly growing class of artisans. 
In another twenty years these conditions had been changed, or 
were altering fast. But it is to this early period, when arable 
land was being converted to pasture, and the superiority of the 
new agricultural methods was stiU disputed, that nearly all the 
writers belonged, who are most frequently quoted for or against 
enclosures. After 1790 no voice is raised against the movement 
on any other ground than the moral and social injury inflicted 
upon open-field farmers and commoners. The economic gain is 
^Political Arithmetic (1774), p. 150. 



CHANGE IN ARGUMENTS AGAINST ENCLQSURES 303 

admitted.^ Individual occupation, as an instrument of scientific 
andr practical farming and of increased production, had demon- 
strated its superiority over commonable fields. The supply of eggs 
and poultry may have dwindled ; but it was more than compen- 
sated by the larger supply of bread and meat. The arguments of 
the deserted village and of scarcity of employment were losing 
their force, when, under the strong pressure of necessity, the reac- 
tion had set in from pasture to extended tillage. In these directions 
the defence of the enclosiag movement was immensely strengthened. 
But, during the same period, the social results of the agrarian revolu- 
tion were rapidly revealing themselves, and were attracting increased 
attention. Those results, aggravated in their evil effects by 

1 The following works may be quoted in proof : 

1. Essay on the Nature and Method of ascertaining the Specifick Shares of 

Proprietors upon the Inclosure of Common Fields, by H. S. Homer, 1766. 

2. An Enquiry into the Reasons For and Against Inclosing the Open Fields, 

by a member of the Legislature, 1767. 

3. An Enquiry into the Causes of the Present High Price of Provisions, by 
Nathaniel Forster, 1767. 

4. Reflections on Inclosing Large Commons and Common Fields, by W. 

Pennington, 1769. 

5. Observations on Reversionary Payments, etc., by Richard Price, 1771. 

6. The Advantages and Disadvantages of inclosing Waste Lands and Open 
Fields, by a Country Gentleman, 1772. 

7. An Inquiry into the Reasons For and Against inclosing Open Fields, by 

Stephen Addington, 2nd edition, 1772. 

8. An Inquiry into the Connection between the present price of provisions and 
the Size of Farms, by a Farmer [John Arbuthnot], 1773. 

9. Four Tracts, together with Two Sermons, on political and commercial 

subjects, by Josiah Tucker, 1774. 

10. Hints to Gentlemen of Landed Property, by Nathaniel Kent, 1777. 

11. An Enquiry into the Advantages and Disadvantages resulting from Bills 

of Inclosure, etc.. Anon, 1780. 

12. Observations on a Pamphlet entitled An Enquiry into the Advantages, etc.. 
Anon, 1781 (an answer to the foregoing). 

13. Cursory Remarks on the Importance of Agriculture, by W. Lamport, 1784. 

14. A Political Enquiry into the Consequences of Enclosing Waste Lands, 
Being the sentiments of a Society of Farmers in shire, 1785. 

15. An Enquiry into the Influence which Enclosures have had upon the Popula- 

tion of England, by John Hewlett, 1786. 

16. Cursory Remarks on Inclosures, etc., by a Country Farmer, 1786. 

17. Enclosures a Cause of Improved Agriculture, etc., by John Howlett, 1787. 

18. Suggestions for rendering the Inclosure of Common Fields and Waste 

Lands a source of Population and Riches, by Thomas Stone, 1787. 
An apparent exception is one of the most interesting works on the subject, 
namely : 

19. The Case of Labourers in Husbandry Stated and Considered, by David 
Davies, 1795. 

But the material was collected in 1787. The high prices of com, 1765-74, 
seem to have given an impulse to enclosures and produced a crop of hterature. 



304 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

industrial changes and the operation of the Poor Law, were disas- 
trous to a large number of open-field farmers, cottagers, and 
commoners who had lost their hold upon the land. The strongest 
argument against enclosures was the material and moral damage 
inflicted upon the poor. 

In comparatively rare instances commoners who exercised com- 
mon-rights were not put to strict proof of their legal title. Even 
where this lenient pohcy was adopted, or where the right was 
established at law, the claim was often supposed to be satisfied by 
the gift of a sum of money, or by an allotment of land. Money, 
to a man who had no power of investment, was a precarious pro- 
vision, which generally was soon spent. Land was a better sub- 
stitute ; but the allotment might be too small to repay the cost of 
fencing, or too distant to be of real benefit ; it was seldom enough 
for the summer and winter keep of a cow. The land and the cow 
were often sold together, as soon as, or sometimes before, the 
award was made. Sometimes, again, legal principles were set 
aside, and allotments of land, more or less inadequate, were made 
for cottage building, or for the benefit of the poor of the parish 
to supply pasture or fuel. But probably less than 5 per cent, of 
the enclosure Acts made any provision of this kind. 

The injury inflicted on the poor by the loss of their common of 
pasture, whether legally exercised or not, was indisputably great. 
It was admitted by those who, on other grounds, were the strongest 
supporters of enclosures. Arthur Young himself, though he never 
swerved from his advocacy of large enclosed holdings, had been 
converted to the principle of an admixture of occupying ownerships 
for small farmers. His travels in France had shown him the 
" magic of property " at work. In England he had witnessed its 
effects in the Isle of Axholme. " In respect of property," he 
writes,^ " I know nothing more singular respecting it, than its 
great division in the isle of Axholm. In most of the towns there, 
for it is not quite general, there is much resemblance of some rich 
parts of France and Flanders. The inhabitants are collected in 
villages and hamlets ; and almost every house you see, except 
very poor cottages on the borders of commons, is inhabited by a 
farmer, the proprietor of his farm, of from four or five, and even 
fewer, to twenty, forty, and more acres, scattered about the open- 
fields, and cultivated with aU that minutisB of care and anxiety, by 
^ Lincolnshire (1799), p. 17. 



COW-KEEPING ON COMMONS^ 305 

the hands of the family, which are found abroad, in the countries 
mentioned. They are very poor, respecting money, but very happy 
respecting their mode of existence. Contrivance, mutual assist- 
ance, by barter and hire, enable them to manage these httle farms 
though they break all the rules of rural proportion." 

On these hues, he urged in 1800 ^ that every scrap of waste and 
neglected land should be converted into possessions for the poor, 
and that all labourers should be assigned gardens and grass-land 
for the keep of a cow. In 1801 ^ he proposed that labourers should 
be allowed to absorb for themselves the smaU commons which 
were situated in the centre of enclosed districts, and that all Acts 
of Parhament for the reclamation of wastes should attach enough 
land to every cottage to provide summer and winter keep for a 
cow, the land to be inalienable and vested in the parish. He 
based these recommendations on his own personal observations of 
the effect of the enclosure of commons. " Many kept cows that 
have not since " is his frequent summary of results. Out of 37 
parishes, he found only 12 in which the poor had not suffered.^ 
" By nineteen Enclosure Acts out of twenty, the poor are injured, 
in some grossly injured. . . , The poor in these parishes may 
say, and with truth, Parliament may be tender of property ; all I 
know is I had a cow, and an Act of Parliament lias taken it from 
me." ^ The Board of Agriculture printed evidence to the same 
effect.^ Out of 68 Enclosure Acts, 53 had injured the poor, who had 
lost their cows, and could no longer buy milk for their famihes. 
The same point is frequently noticed by the Reporters. Nathaniel 
Kent, for example, dwells upon it in his Report on Norfolk, and 
urges " all great farmers ... to provide comfortable cottages for 
two or three of their most industrious labourers, and to lay two or 
three acres of grass land to each to enable such labourer to keep 
a cow and a pig." ^ Yet even when the opportunity to keep a 
cow occurred, it was not invariably used. " Cottagers," says Kent, 
"who live at the sides of the common generally neglect the advantage 
they have before them. There is not, perhaps, one out of six, 

^ Question of Scarcity plainly stated (1800). 

^ Inquiry into the Propriety of applying Wastes to the better Maintenance 
and Support of the Poor (1801). 

3 Ibid, p 19. « Ibid. p. 42. 

* General Report on Enclosures, 1808, pp. 150-2. 
« Kent's Norfolk, p. 172. 



306 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

upon an average that keeps even a cow." ^ Nor was the disappear- 
ance of the cow invariably due to the loss of commons. Some- 
times commercial motives operated. At Baldon, in Oxfordshire, 
" many cottagers had two, three or four acres, and they kept 
cows ; now, still having the land, they keep no cows ; their rent 
from 30s. to 42s. per acre and all appUed as arable." ^ Li this 
instance, at all events, the cheapness of butter and the high price 
of wheat had tempted these men to plough up their grass-land. 

Whatever exceptions there may have been, the loss of the cow 
generally followed the loss of the commons. Nor was this the only 
injury which the cottager suffered. He lost his free firing, and the 
run for his geese and poultry. It is, in fact, impossible to measure 
in terms of cash equivalents the benefits derived from the commons, 
or the loss inflicted by their withdrawal. The case is well sum- 
marised by Barnes, the Dorsetshire poet of rural life : 

Thomas [loq.) : Why, 'tis a handy thing 

To have a bit o' common, I do know, 
To put a Uttle cow upon in spring, 
The while woone's bit ov orchard grass do grow. 

John : Aye, that's the thing, you zee. Now I do mow 

My bit o' grass, an meake a httle rick ; 
An' in the ztunmer, while do grow. 
My cow do rim in common vor to pick 
A bleade or two o' grass, if she can vind em, 
Vor tother cattle don't leave much behind em. 
An' then, bezides the cow, why we do let 
Our geese run out among the emmet hills ; 
An' then, when we do pluck em, we do get 
Vor zeale zome veathers an' zome quills ; 
An' in the winter we do fat em well, 
An' car em to the market vor to zell 
To gentle-volks. .... 

An' then, when I ha' nothen else to do. 
Why, I can teake my hook an' gloves, an' goo 
To cut a lot o' vuzz and briars 
Vor heten ovens or vor lighten viers ; 
An' when the childern be too young to eaxn 
A penny, they can g'out in zimny weather. 
An' run about, an' get together 
A bag o' cow-dTmg vor to bum. 

The material loss inflicted on the poor was great : still more 
serious was the moral^damage. It is probably true that the com- 
mons had attracted to their borders numbers of the idle and 
dissolute. But it is equally certain that they also afforded to 
hard-working and thrifty peasants the means of supplementing 

1 Hints to Gentlemen (1776), p. 112. ^ Young's Oxfordshire, p. 23. 



MORAL DAMAGE FROM LOSS OF COMMONS 307 

their weekly wages. They gave the man who enjoyed rights of 
common, and lived near enough to use them, an interest in the 
land and the hope of acquiring a larger interest. They encouraged 
his tlnrift and fostered his independence. Men who had grazing 
rights hoarded their money to buy a cow. They enabled wage- 
earners to keep hve-stock, which was somethmg of their own. 
They gave them fuel, instead of driving them to the baker for 
every sort of cooking. They formed the lowest rung in the social 
ladder, by which the successful commoner might hope to cUmb to 
the occupation of a holding suited to his capital. Now the com- 
mons were gone, and the farms which replaced them were too 
large to be attainable. Contemporary Avriters who comment on 
the increasing degradation of the labouring classes too often treat 
as its causes changes which were really its consequences. They 
note the increase of drunkenness, but forget that the occupation 
of the labourer's idle moments was gone ; they attack the mis- 
chievous practice of giving children tea, but forget that milk was 
no longer procurable ; they condemn the rising generation as 
incapable for farm labour, but forget that the parents no longer 
occupied land on which their children could learn to work ; they 
deplore the helplessness of the modern wives of cottagers who had 
become dependent on the village baker, but forget that they were 
now obHged to buy flour, and had lost their free fuel ; they denounce 
their improvident marriages, but forget that the motive of thrift 
was removed. The results were the hopelessness, the indifference, 
and the moral deterioration of the landless labourer. " Go," says 
Arthur Young, " to an ale-house kitchen of an old enclosed country, 
and there you will see the origin of poverty and the poor-rates. 
For whom are they to be sober ? For whom are they to save ? 
(such are their questions). For the parish ? If I am diligent, 
shall I have leave to build a cottage ? If I am sober, shall I have 
land for a cow ? If I am frugal, shall I have half an acre of 
potatoes ? You offer no motives ; you have nothing but a parish 
officer and a workhouse. Bring me another pot." ^ The same 
point is urged, with less vivacity and picturesqueness of statement, 
by the best writers of the day, especially by Howlett and Davies. 

The displacement of numbers of cottagers, commoners, and open- 
field farmers came at a difficult crisis. Hitherto rural labourers 
in many parts of the country had regarded day work for wages 

^ Annals of Agriculture, vol. xxxvi. p. 608. On Wastes (1801), pp. 12, 13. 



308 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

on the land of farmers as a by-employment, which eked out the 
profits of their other industries. Now the commons were gone, 
and at the same time their own domestic handicrafts were being 
superseded by manufactured goods. It was now that the mdustrial 
population was shifting from the South to the North ; that spinning 
and weaving deserted the home for the factory ; that old markets 
were exchanged for the new centres of trade which gathered round 
the water-power or the coal and iron fields of the North. In the 
closing years of the eighteenth century, widespread complaints 
are made of decaying industries, of the loss of employment in rural 
districts, of the mass of pauperism bequeathed to small towns 
and villages by the departure of trades. 

Industries, which in 1800 were concentrating in the large towns 
of the North, had been previously scattered over a wide extent of 
country districts. Even where the trade maintained its ground, 
the introduction of machinery reduced the amount of employment, 
and transferred it from the cottage to the factory. At the same 
time many local manufactories were brought to the verge of ruin 
by the war, which Hmited the export trade. As the result of these 
changes in the conditions of rural life, poor-rates rose to an enormous 
height. Marshall, in his Review of the Reports to the Board of 
Agriculture, mentions the instance of Coggeshall in Essex, once a 
flourishing village, where the poor-rates, owing to the ruin of the 
baize trade, had risen to 16s. in the pound. This burden, increased 
as it Avas by the provision for the maintenance of the mves and 
families of mihtiamen, enlisted soldiers and sailors, crushed out of 
existence many smaU freeholders, who, because they employed no 
labour, derived no advantage from the operation of the Poor Law, 
but were assessed on the rental value of their land. As the local 
industries declined, or were concentrated in towns, or substituted 
machinery for manual work, the demand for labour was reduced 
in rural villages. Fewer opportunities for supplementing weekly 
wages by other employments were afforded. It was now that the 
South and South Midlands fell hopelessly behind the North. 

It is difficult to give any adequate impression of the degree in 
which, under the dying system of seK-contained communities, mdus- 
trial employments other than those of agriculture had been distri- 
buted among rural villages. Counties which at first sight seem 
purely agricultural, possessed a number of local industries, which, 
in addition to dyeworks, malthouses, breweries, mills, and tanneries, 



LOCAL INDUSTRIES AND HOME CRAFTS 309 

gave considerable emplo5Tiient. Bedfordshire had its osier baskets, 
its reed matting, its straw plaiting ; its spinning of hemp had died 
out in 1803, but men as well as women still made pillow lace. Straw- 
plaiting extended along the borders of Buckinghamshire, Hertford- 
shire, and Cambridgeshire. The best, that is, the weakest straw, 
commanded high prices, and sold for from 2d. to 4d. the pound. In 
Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire, woollen and worsted yarn 
was also spun for Norwich and the northern markets. Lincolnshire 
wove fabrics for women's dresses ; Epworth made sack-cloth ; 
coarse linen or hempen cloth was woven in many parts of the 
county. Suffolk had its spinning and combing of wool ; and in the 
district round Beccles, where hemp was largely cultivated, quantities 
of hempen cloth were manufactured. Essex was famous for its 
baizes. But the trade was for the time ruined by the war. In the 
neighbourhood of Colchester, where during peace 20,000 persons had 
found employment, only 8,000 were now employed. At Halstead, 
Dedham, Booking, and the surrounding villages, the industry had so 
decayed that numbers of hands were out of work, and the rates rose 
to over 20s. in the pound. 

Hampshire was not a manufacturing county. But it had a 
variety of industries ranging from manufactories of cloth, shalloons 
and coarse woollens, to bed-ticking and earthenware pottery. Kent 
was the county of hops ; yet Canterbury and the villages round 
wove silk ; Dover and Maidstone made paper ; Crayford bleached 
linens and printed calicoes ; Whitstable had its copperas works, 
Sandwich its salt-works, Faversham and Deptford their powder 
mills. Along the banks of the Wandle in Surrey were paper, oil, 
snuff and flour mills, mills for grinding logwood, as well as leather, 
parchment, calico, and printing works. The Mole turned iron mills 
at Cobham and flatting mills at Ember Court. The Wey collected 
on its banks many paper mills. In the Weald there still lingered 
iron- workers and charcoal burners. Godalming and the neighbour- 
hood had its patent fleecy hosiery, its works for wool-combing, for 
blankets, tilts, and collar-cloths. Sussex formerly sent every year 
quantities of iron by land-carriage to London ; but the trade was 
dying fast. It still remained one of the chief centres of the charcoal 
industry and of powder making. In Berkshire the woollen manu- 
factures were dwindUng. They were deserting Newbury, leaving 
behind a " numerous poor." But in the town and neighbourhood, 
kerseys, cottons, calicoes, linen and damask were still made, and the 



310 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

introduction of the manufacture of blankets was attempted. At 
Oakingham there were established silk-spinning and silk-weaving 
manufactories, and a considerable trade was carried on in hat-bands, 
ribbons, watch-strings, shoe-strings, sarcenets, and figured gauzes 
for women's dresses. In Oxfordshire the shag-weavers of Bloxham 
and Banbury were out of employment and on the parish. The 
coarse velvet trade of Banbury was travelling north. The blankets 
of Witney stiU held their own ; but the introduction of machinery 
had thrown two-thirds of the workmen out of emplojnnent, and the 
rates had risen to lis. in the pound. The glove trade of Woodstock 
flourished ; but the pohshed steel trade had migrated to Birmingham 
and ShejBfield, and leathern breeches, no longer worn, had ceased to 
be made. 

Northampton and the surromiding neighbourhood were already 
famous for boots ; Daventry manufactured whips and wove silk 
stockings ; in Wellingborough and the surrounding villages lace- 
making employed from 9,000 to 10,000 persons, the thread being 
imported from Flanders and distributed to the workers in their 
houses. Since the war, the worsted manufactories of Kettering 
had decayed ; instead of from 5,000 to 6,000 hands, only half were 
employed, and the remainder fell upon the rates. Warwickshire, 
Nottinghamshire, and Staffordshire were becoming manufacturing 
counties. Machinery was being introduced, and, as a consequence, 
their industries were being withdrawn from the villages and con- 
centrated in towns. Outside Birmingham, there were the ribbon 
and tammy trades of Coventrj^, the horn combs of Kenilworth, the 
nails of Bromwich, the needles of Alcestei. ^^e worsted works of 
Warwick, the linen trade of Tamworth. For miles round Notting- 
ham the villagers were stocking-makers ; in different parts of the 
county Avere scattered mills for combing and spinning wool, or 
silk spmning and weaving, for poHshing marble, as well as works 
for the manufacture of potterj^, starch, and sail-cloth. Few cottagers 
were without a web of home-spun cloth. Shropshire had a great 
variety of local industries, such as garden pots at Broseley ; fine 
china at Caughley ; china, ropes, and chains at Coalport ; glass 
works at Domiington ; dye-works at Lebotwood ; Shrewsbury and 
the neighbourhood maintained spinning and fulling mills, a trade in 
finishing Welsh flannels, manufactures of coarse linens and linen 
threads. In many cottages and farm-houses pieces of Hnen cloth 
were got up for sale. The glove trade of Worcester employed a 



CLOTH TRADE IN THE SOUTH-WEST 311 

large number of men and women in the city itself, and in the " county 
round to the extent of seven or eight miles." Kidderminster and 
the neighbourhood were carpet-makers. On the borders of Stafford- 
shire and Warwickshire many were employed in making nails, 
needles, and fish-hooks. 

Over the greater part of Gloucestershire, and especially in the 
Cotswold Hills, there was much spinning of wool. The trade in 
the fine broad-cloths of Stroud and the surrounding parishes was in 
1794 at a stand-still ; but in the coarser quahty required for army 
clothing it was brisk. Even here the introduction of machinery 
" has thrown many hands out of employment," and caused the poor- 
rates to rise " to six shilHngs in the pound and upward." At 
Cirencester in 1807 many labouring people were still employed in 
sorting wool from the fleece ; but the wool trade had much decreased 
in the last forty years, as also spinning woollen yarn and worsted 
since the introduction of machinery. Tewkesbury had its stocking- 
frame industry ; Dursley and Wotton-under-Edge made wire cards 
for the use of clothiers ; iron and brass wire, tin-plate, pins, rugs 
and blankets employed other districts of the county. But the 
decline of trade made itself felt in the great increase of rates. " In 
the clothing district," says Rudge, " the weight of parochial assess- 
ments falls uncommonly heavy on landed property. During the late 
scarcity, the average charge might be 4s. 6d. through the county ; 
while at the same time it amounted to at least three times that 
proportion in some of the parishes where the clothing manufacture 
is carried on." ^ In Somersetshire, the trade in woollen cloth and 
worsted stockings of Frome and Shepton MaUet had given employ- 
ment, not only to the two towns, but to " a vast number of the lower 
order of people in the adjacent villages." But in 1797 the restriction 
of the export trade by the war, the introduction of machinery, and 
the competition of the North, had begun to injure the trade and 
lessen the demand for labour. Taunton had lost its woollen 
manufactures, though they still flourished at Wellington and 
Wiveliscombe. 

In Cornwall, carding and spinning were in 1811 dying out, and 
" to the total decline of this business must, in some measure, be attri- 
buted the progressive increase of the rates of the county." ^ From 
Devonshire in 1808 came the same complaint of the failure of em- 

1 Gloucestershire (1807), p. 346. 

2 Worgan's Cornwall (1811), p. 33. 



312 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

plojonent, though in the eastern part of the county lace-makmg still 
flourished.^ In Dorsetshire the principal manufactures were in the 
neighbourhood of Bridport and Beaminster, where in 1793, " all 
sorts of twine, string, packthread, netting, cordage, and ropes are 
made, from the finest thread used by saddlers, in heu of sUk, to 
the cable which holds the first-rate man of war." ^ In this neigh- 
bourhood also were made the sails for shipping, sacking for ham- 
mocks, and aU kinds of bags and tarpauHn. Here too were braided 
nets for the Newfoundland fishery and for home use. At Loders 
sail-cloth was woven. At Shaftesbury and Blandford, and in the 
surrounding villages on aU sides, to seven or eight miles distance, 
was carried on the manufacture of shirt-buttons. 

Two other changes were in progress which in a minor degree 
added to the misfortunes of the labouring classes in country districts. 
In the first place, trade in agricultural produce was rapidly becoming 
wholesale instead of retail. Dairy-farms contracted for the supply 
of milk to towns, and milk was more easily obtained by the urban 
than the rural population. The produce of corn-farms was sold in 
bulk to corn-dealers or millers. Labourers could rarely purchase a 
bushel of wheat direct from the farmer. They could no longer 
carry their corn to the miller, pay for grinding, and take away the 
pure flour, and the offals for the pigs. Now they were obliged to buy 
from the miller or the baker, not only the flour, but the bran, ■with 
the profits of each trader added to the price of both. In the second 
, place, a number of crops, some of which required much labour for 
their cultivation or special preparation, were dying out, because 
the industries which they served had migrated, or from some change 
of taste or fashion. As the hnen trade became more concentrated 
in particular localities, flax was more rarely cultivated. The hemp- 
yards, which were once attached to many cottages and farm-houses, 
were similarly abandoned. The use of teasels by clothiers was 
displaced by machinery, and the crop was no longer cultivated. 
Woad, madder, and saffron found cheaper substitutes. Liquorice 
disappeared from Nottinghamshire, camomile from Derbyshire, 
canary seed from Kent, carraway seed from Essex. 

The rapid increase in the price of provisions from 1793 onwards 
struck yet another, and a crushing, blow at the position of the land- 
less labourer. The rise came with startling suddenness, and it 

^ Vancouver's Devonshire (1808), p. 464. 
* Claridge's Dorsetshire (1793), p. 37. 



RISE IN AGRICULTURAL WAGES 313 

found him defenceless. Without the commons he was entirely 
dependent on purchased food ; without domestic industries he had 
less money to buy the means of existence. The greater the distance 
from London, the lower the wages and the higher the prices. This 
was certainly true of the West and South-West of England. Thus, 
the labourer had more to buy, less money to buy it with, and what 
money he had did not go so far as formerly. In yet another way, 
the great rise in prices affected the rural population for the worse. 
It no longer paid the farmer to board servants in husbandry. In the 
North, the system stiU survived, partly because of the high wages of 
day-labour, partly because the diet which custom accepted was more 
economical, and barley-broth and porridge were staple foods. 
Elsewhere the number of servants who were boarded and lodged 
in farm-houses dwindled ; they became day-labourers, hving how 
and where they could. Another opportunity for saving and another 
restraint on improvident marriage were thus removed. 

To a certain extent the rise in the prices was met by a substantial 
advance in wages. It is always easy to raise wages ; it is extremely 
difficult to lower them. The reluctance of farmers to increase wages, 
when an advance in prices may be only temporary, is therefore 
intelHgible. How far wages rose is a difficult field of enquiry. The 
remuneration of labour varies with the different seasons, with the 
different occupations of the men, with different contracts of service, 
with different districts of the same county. The one outstanding 
point is that the real earnings of agricultural labourers are not now, 
and, to a greater extent, were not then, represented only by the 
weekly sums which are paid in cash. To these weekly pa3rments 
must be added earnings at piece-work, at hay and corn harvest, 
perquisites, allowances in kind, cottages and gardens, either rent 
free or rented below their economic value. On these points the 
Reports to the Board of Agriculture, 1793-1815, supply no reliable 
evidence. Most of them speak of a considerable rise in wages ; 
they rarely mention the point from which the advance is 
measured. They register the averages of the daily or weekly 
payments ; they seldom give the method by which the rate is 
calculated. 

Failing the Reports to the Board of Agriculture, the enquirer is 
thrown back on Young's generalisations. As the result of his 
calculations in the Farmers' Tours of 1767-70, it may be estimated 
that the average rate of wages was Is. 2d. a day, — more in the 



314 THE RURAL POPULATION, 1780-1813 

neighbourhood of London, less in more distant counties, least in the 
West and South. From 1770 to 1790 there does not seem to have 
been any appreciable and general rise. In the next twenty-five 
years a striking advance was made. Tooke states that agricultural 
wages were " doubled or nearly so." ^ Young calculated that, 
taking the " mean rate " of wages in 1770 at 7s. 4|d., the " price 
of labour had in forty years about doubled." ^ Both he and 
Tooke state that the wages of agricultural labourers had reached 
the level of those of artisans. It is difficult to accept these 
estimates. Few of the Reports to the Board of Agriculture 
really belong to the later part of the period 1793-1815, and the 
only county in which the Reporters to the Board state that wages 
had doubled between 1794 and 1812 is Warwickshire. In Essex, 
however, there is some indication of wages having doubled, if the 
Is. 2d. of 1770 is taken as the starting-point. In the Report for 
1794, the average of summer and winter wages is given as 9s. l|d. a 
week ; in that for 1807, at 12s. 7d. The evidence of the subsequent 
rise comes from another source. On an Essex farm the rate of 
wages paid to an ordinary labourer, who had not the care of stock, 
rose from 10s. 6d. a week in 1800 to 12s. a week in 1802, and to 15s. 
a week in 1812.^ Whatever weight may be attached to the general- 
isations of Tooke and Young, it is certain that a very important 
advance in agricultural wages was made during the period of the 
Napoleonic wars. Unfortunately, it is equally certain that, even 

^ History of Prices, vol. i. p. 329. 

2 Enqtiiry into the Rise of Prices in Europe during the last twenty-five years 
(1815), p. 215. 

3 Board of Trade RepoH on Agricultural Wages (1900), Cd. 346, p. 238. In 
the Communications to the Board of Agriculture (vol. v. part i.), the average 
weekly wages of agricultural labourers in 1803 are stated at lis. lid. In 
Arthur Young's Enquiry into the Rise of Prices in Europe, the weekly wages in 
husbandry are stated to be 14s. 6d. in 1811. J. C. Curwen, M.P., moving in the 
House of Commons for a Committee to consider the Poor Laws (May 28, 
1816), speaks of agricultural wages at that time as ranging from 10s. to 15s. 
{Pamphleteer, vol. viii. p. 9). A. H. Holdsworth, M.P. [Letter on the Present 
Situation of the Country (1816), Pamphleteer, vol. viii. p. 428), speaks of agri- 
cultural labourers receiving 2s. 6d. a day before the reductions of 1814. William 
Clarkson [Inquiry into the Poor Rates (1816), Pamphleteer, vol. viii. p. 392) gives 
the average rate of wages in 1812 at 15s. ; but thinks that as wages are much 
less in Wiltshire, Devonshire, and Cornwall, this figure is over-stated as an 
average. 

It is not suggested that this class of evidence is at all conclusive ; but it 
leaves the impression that, if agricultural wages in 1760 averaged 7s., they had 
approximately doubled in 1812 in many parts of the country, and that the 
average rise cannot be put at less than two-thirds. 



IF WAGES DOUBLED, FOOD-PRICES ^TREBLED 315 

if wages had doubled, the price of provisions had trebled. In other 
words, effective earnings had diminished by a third. It is the 
suddenness of this advance in prices that explains, though it does 
not justify, the makeshift expedients for rehef which were adopted 
by administrators of the Poor Law. 



CHAPTER XV. 

AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION AND THE POOR LAW. 

1813-37. 

War taxation : peace and beggary ; slow recovery of agriculture ; the harvest 
of 1813 ; reality and extent of distress ; the fall of prices ; bankruptcies 
of tenant-farmers ; period of acute depression, 1814-36 ; ruin of small 
owners ; misery of agricultural labourers ; reduction in wages and scarcity 
of employment ; allowances from the rates ; general pauperisation : the 
new Poor Law, 1834, and its administration. 

England in 1815 had emerged from the Napoleonic wars victorious. 
But she paid the price of victory in her huge National Debt, her 
excessive taxation, her enormous Poor-Rate, her fictitious credit, 
her mass of unemployed and discontented labour. Though it is 
estimated that one in every six male adults was engaged in the 
struggle by land or sea, the population of England and Wales had 
risen from under 8f millions in 1792 to about 10| millions in 1815. 
Within the same period the National Debt grew from £261,735,059 
to £885,186,323, and the annual expenditure, including interest 
on the pubhc debt, from under 20 milhons to £106,832,260.1 The 
wealth and resources of the nation are shown by the comparative 
ease with which the money was found and the increased burden met. 
Yet the strain of the struggle had been intense, and on no class had 
it told more severely than on agricultural labourers. If their 
wages had approximately doubled, the cost of Hving had nearly 
trebled. Of their distress the rise of the expenditure on poor-relief 
afiFords evidence. It advanced from £1, 912,241, ^ which was the 

1 Porter's Progress of the Nation (1847), p. 482. 

* Eden's State of the Poor, vol. i. pp. 363-72. In 1776 the expenditure had 
been £1,556,804. After 1785 no Returns were made till 1803, when poor-rates 
stood at £4,077,891. See Local Taxation Returns printed by order of the House 
of Commons, 1839. To the sums assessed and disbursed in relief of the poor 
must be added the annual sums derived from charities appropriated to the 
same object. These amounted, apart from educational charities, to £1,209,395 



PEACE AND BEGGARY ^ 317 

triennial average for 1783-4-5, to £5,418,845 in 1815. Nor did the 
expenditure cease to rise with the close of the war. It continued 
to increase, in spite of falling prices. In 1818 it had grown to 
£7,870,801, the highest point which it reached under the old law.i 

For six years after the end of the war the proverbial association 
of " Peace and Plenty " proved a ghastly mockery to all classes of 
the community. To agriculturists peace brought only beggary. In 
the first rush of complaint, some allowance must be made for dis- 
appointment at the immediate results of the end of the war. But 
the evidence of commercial depression was real and widespread. 
The disordered state of the currency continued to injure credit, to 
disturb trade, to create wild speculation instead of sound business. 
The labour market was glutted. Discharged sailors, soldiers, and 
mihtiamen swelled the ranks of the unemployed. The store, 
transport, and commissariat departments were put on a peace 
footing. Industries to which the war had given a feverish activity 
languished. Thousands of spinners, combers, and hand-loom 
weavers were thrown out of work by the increased introduction of 
machinery into manufacturing processes. Continental ports were 
once more opened to Enghsh trade ; but money was scarce, and 
foreign merchandise excluded by heavy customs duties. It was soon 
found that home manufactures had exceeded the demand. Ware- 
houses were overloaded, markets overstocked. Pjwiuce was unsold, 
or unpaid for^ or bought at prices unremunerative to the producers. 
Only with America was increased business done. The growing 
imports of raw cotton were paid for by exports of British goods. 

After 1821 the commercial depression began to disperse. Difficul- 
ties of the currency had been, to some extent, adjusted ; credit and 
confidence were reviving. Progress was for a time suspended by 
the financial crash of 1825. But the interruption was temporary. 
Trade improved, at first slowly, then rapidly. Agriculture recovered 
more gradually ; for a protracted period it endured an almost 
unexampled misery. Landlords, tenant-farmers, and labourers 
suffered together. It was not till 1836 that any gleam of returning 

12s. 8d. a year. (See Report of the Charity Commissioners, 1842.) No estimate 
can be formed of the additional sums annually contributed by the charitable. 
The great increase in the Poor Rate cannot be wholly attributed to an increase 
in the number of paupers. It was largely due to the greater cost of provisions 
and to more lax administration. See Appendix II. 

1 NichoU's History of the Poor Law, ed. H. G. Willink (1898), vol. ii. p. 165, 
and Porter's Progress of the Nation (ed. 1847), p. 527. 



318 AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION AND POOR LAW 

prosperity appeared. During the war, farming improvements had 
been stimulated by the prospect of increased profits. In peace, when 
once the new conditions were accepted, and some degree of confidence 
\ restored, adversity proved an efficient goad. Without improved 
^ practices there was no prospect of any profits at all. Yet down to 
the accession of Queen Victoria there is no substantial progress to 
chronicle. The characteristics of the period are a great loss of 
ground and a partial recovery. 

The inflated prices of the war had conferred, from one point of 
view, a great advantage on the agriculture of the country. They 
brought under the plough districts which, but for their stimulus, 
might never have been brought into cultivation, — areas that were 
forced into productiveness by the sheer weight of the metal that was 
poured into them. Money made by farming had been eagerly 
reinvested in the improvement of the land. For the same purpose 
banks had advanced money to occupiers on the security of crops 
and stock which every year seemed to rise in value. Farmers had 
been able to meet their engagements out of loans, and wait their own 
time for reahsing their produce. Better horses were kept, better 
cattle and sheep bred. Land was hmed, marled, or manured. 
Wastes were brought under cultivation ; large areas were cleared 
of stones in order to give an arable surface ; heaths were cleared, 
bogs drained, buildings erected, roads constructed. The history of 
Northumberland strongly illustrates these brighter aspects of a 
gloomy period. John Grey of Dilston,^ " the Black Prince of the 
North," one of the most enterprising and skilful agriculturists of the 
day, played a conspicuous part in the transformation of his county. 
Bom in 1785, and early called through the death of his father to the 
management of property, he lived in the midst of the agricultural 
revolution. When his father first settled in Glendale, the plain was 
a forest of wild broom. He took his axe, and, hke a backwoodsman, 
cleared a space on which to begin his farming operations. The 
country was then wholly unenclosed, without roads or signposts. 
Cattle were lost for days in the broom forests. The inhabitants 
were as wild as their home, — the Cheviot herdsmen " ferocious and 
sullen," the rural population " uneducated, ill-clothed, and barbar- 
ous." But the character of the soil was such as to attract skill and 
industry. Men of the same stamp as Grey, or the Culleys, settled 
in the fertile vales, and by their spirited farming transformed into 
1 Memoirs of John Grey of Dilston, by Josephine E. Butler (1869). 



RAPID FALL IN PRICES ^ 319 

cultivated land wide districts, like the rich valley of the TiU, which 
before the period of war prices Avere wildernesses of underwood. 

Between 1813 and the accession of Queen Victoria falls one of the 
blackest periods of EngUsh farming. Prosperity no longer stimu- 
lated progress. Except in a few districts, falling prices, dwindling 
rents, vanishing profits did not even rouse the energy of despair. 
The growing demorahsation of both employers and employed, which 
resulted from the administration of the Poor Law, crushed the 
spirit of agriculturists. " Many horses die while the grass is grow- 
ing." The men who survived the struggle were rarely the old 
owners or the old occupiers. They were rather their fortunate 
successors who entered on the business of land-cultivation on more 
favourable terms. Prices had begun to fall Avith the abundant 
harvest of 1813. The suddenness of the decline is illustrated from 
the contracts made on behalf of the Royal Navy. At Portsmouth 
in January, 1813, the price paid for wheat was 123s. lOd., in Novem- 
ber, 67s. lOd. In February, 1813, at Deptford, flour was contracted 
for at 100s. 3d. per sack, in November, at 65s.i This rapid fall 
could not at that time have been due to any prospect of peace. 
It was rather due to over-production, which the House of Commons 
Committee on the Corn Trade (1814) found to have increased within 
the last ten years by a fourth. Besides EngHsh corn, Scottish and 
Irish com were in the market. Since 1806 Irish grain had been 
admitted into the country free, and it poured into the western 
counties in considerable quantities. Deficient harvests in 1809-10- 
11-12 had concealed the potential yield of the increased area under 
corn ; its fuU productive power stood revealed by the favourable 
season of 1813. The two following harvests, 1814 and 1815, were 
not above the average ; but prices of wheat dropped to 74s. 4d. 
and 65s. 7d. per quarter respectively. As compared with 1812, 
the actual receipts of farmers diminished by one hundred milHons, 
and the value of the farming stock was reduced by nearly one- 
half. The evidence of widespread distress is ample.^ But it is 

1 Speech of Ghas. C. Western, M.P., on moving that the House should resolve 
itself into a Committee of the Whole House to take into Consideration the Dis- 
tressed State of the Agriculture of the United Kingdom, March 1, 1816 {Pamph- 
leteer, vol. vii. p. 508). 

^ E.g. 1. A Review of the present Ruined Condition of the Landed and Agri- 
cultural Interests, etc., by R. Preston, M.P. (1813). 

2. Letters on the Distressed State of Agriculturists, by R. Brown (1816). 

3. Further Observations on the State of the Nation, etc., by R. Preston, M.P. 

(1816). 



320 AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION AND POOR LAW 

improbable that its extent was understated. Agricultural witnesses 
and writers were anxious, not only to prevent any relaxation of the 
Com Laws, but, if possible, to increase their stringency. The 
depression, therefore, " lost nothing in the telling," though its depth 
and reaHty remain unquestionable. Brougham, speaking on 
agricultural distress in the House of Commons, April 9, 1816, said : 
"There is one branch of the argument which I shall pass over 
altogether, I mean the amount of the distresses which are now 
universally admitted to prevail over almost every part of the Empire. 
Upon this topic all men are agreed ; the statements concerning it 
are as unquestionable as they are afflicting . . . and the petition 
from Cambridgeshire presented at an early part of this evening, has 
laid before you a fact, to which all the former expositions of distress 
afforded no parallel, that in one parish, every projirietor and tenant 
being ruined with a single exception, the whole poor-rates of the 
parish, thus wholly inhabited by paupers, are now paid by an 
individual whose fortune, once ample, is thus swept entirely 
away." ^ 

With wheat standing at over 60s. a quarter, it is difficult to realise 
that the landed interests could be distressed, and it might be supposed 
that farmers had made enough in prosperous times to tide over a 
period of depression. But though the rise in prices had been enor- 

4. On the State of the Country in December 1816, by the Rt. Hon. Sir John 

Sinclair (1816). 

5. Agricultural State of the Kingdoin in February, March, and April, 1816. 
Being the Substance of the Replies to a Circular Letter sent by the Board of 
Agriculture (1816). 

6. An Inquiry into the Causes of Agricultural Distress, by W. Jacob, F.R.S. 

(1817). 

7. Observations on the Present State of Pauperism in England, by the Rev. 

George Glover (1817). 

8. Speech of J. C. Cunven, M.P., in the House of Commons on May 28th, 

1816, on a Motion for a Committee to take into Consideration the State of 
the Poor Laws (1816). 

9. Two Letters on the Present Situation of the Country, by A. H. Holdsworth, 
M.P. (1816). 

10. Letters on the Present State of the Agricultural Interest, by the Rev. Dr. 

Crombie (1816). 

11. On Famine and the Poor Laws, by W. Richardson, D.D. (1816). 

12. An Inquiry into Pauperism and Poor Rates, by William Clarkson (1816). 

13. Observations . . , on the Condition of the Labouring Classes, by John 
Barton (1817). 

14. Inquiry into the Causes of the Progressive Depreciation of Agricultural 

Labour, by the Same (1820). 

1 " Speech on Asrricultural Distress." Speeches of Henry, Lord Brougham, 
vol. i. pp. 503-4 (1838). 



HEAVY TAXATION OF LAND ^ 321 

mous, the increase in public burdens had more than kept pace. 
During the ten years ending in 1792, the average price of wheat had 
been 47s. per quarter ; the national expenditure under twenty 
millions a year ; the poor-rate less than If milHons ; there was also 
no property tax. During the ten years ending in 1812, wheat 
averaged 88s. a quarter. While wheat had thus not quite doubled, 
wages had risen by two-thirds ; the national expenditure had i 
multiphed five-fold ; tithes had increased by more than a fourth ; 
a property tax had been imposed on owners and occupiers of land. 
The poor-rate had quadrupled ; the county-rate had risen seven- 
fold ; the permissive charge of 6d. in the pound for the road material 
of highways had been of late years habitually levied. A very large 
proportion of this pubhc burden was borne by agriculturists. Upon 
the landed interests fell more than half the new property tax,' 
the greater part of the county-, poor-, and highway-rates, the war i 
duties on hops and malting barley, the tax on agricultural horses, | 
and an exceptional share of the tax on leather, which swelled the 
cost of every kind of harness gear. Thus the rise of the price of 
agricultural produce was to a great extent discounted by the growth 
of taxation, and it was the war, not the Corn Laws, which had given 
agricultural producers the monopoly of home markets. 

In other respects circumstances were exceptional. During the 
war, the social advantages of landownership and its apparently 
remunerative character, as well as the large fortunes reahsed in 
recent trade, combined to give land a fancy value. New capitahsts 
gratified both their ambitions and their speculative instincts by 

1 The Property Tax for 1814 produced Gross £15,325,720, and Net 
£14,545,279. It was made up thus : 

Sched. A (lands, tenements and hereditaments) £4,297,247 

Sched. B (occupiers of land) - - - 2,176,228 

Tax on houses 1,625,939 



Total - - £8,099,414 

Sched. C, Funded property - - - - £3,004,861 

Sched. D, Profits on Trades and Professions - 3,021,187 
Sched. E, Naval, military, and civil lists 

together with provincial oflBces - - 1,113,244 



Total - £7,139,292 

Supplementary accounts, duties, penalties, etc. 87,014 



Total £15,325,720 

This tax was repealed in 1816. The number of agricultural occupiers 
contributing to the property tax under Sched. B was 474,596, as against 
152,926 assessed under Sched. D. 

X 



322 AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION AND POOR LAW 

becoming purchasers. Their biddings forced existing owners into 
ruinous competition ; they mortgaged their ancestral acres to buy 
up outljdng properties or round off their boundaries. As much as 
J forty-five years' purchase was given for purely agricultural land. 
I The same spirit of competition prompted farmers to offer extravagant 
/ rents for land. Farms were jjut up to auction, and the tenancy fell 
I to the highest bidder. The more prudent had left business in 1806. 
Many of the new men entered on their holdings with insufficient or 
borrowed capital. Money was still made in farming ; but, instead 
of being reaHsed, it was put back into the land, Avhere, so long as 
.prices rose, or were even maintained, it proved a profitable invest- 
ment. Among all classes, including landoA^ners and farmers, a 
higher standard of living prevailed. Country mansions had been 
built, rebuilt, or enlarged, and costly improvements effected in the 
equipment of farms, — often by means of loans ; heavy jointures 
and portions had been charged on estates ; farmers and their wives 
had either altered their simpler habits, or brought with them into 
their new business more luxurious modes of life. The whole fabric 
rested on the continuance of the war-prices. When these began to 
fall, the crash came. Profits were reduced by a half ; burdens 
remained the same. Tenants-at-will could at least quit their hold- 
ings. But tenants occupying under long leases found themselves 
in a difficult position. Landlords could not meet their Habihties, 
unless their rents were maintained ; without reductions of rent, the 
bankruptcy of their tenants seemed inevitable. 

In the period 1814-16 the agricultural industry passed suddenly 
from prosperity to extreme depression. At first farmers met their 
engagements out of capital. When that was exhausted, their only 
resource was to sell their corn as soon as it was threshed, or their 
stock, for what it would fetch. The great quantity of grain thus 
thrown on the market in a limited time lowered prices for producers, 
and the subsequent advance, which benefited only the dealers, 
suggested to landlords that no reductions of rent were necessary. 
Farms were thro"WTi up ; notices to quit poured in ; numbers of 
tenants absconded. Large tracts of land were untenanted and 
often uncultivated. In 1815 three thousand acres in a small distri ct 
of Huntingdonshire were abandoned, and nineteen farms in the Is le 
of Ely were without tenant s. Bankers pressed for their advances, 
landlords for their rents, tithe-owners for their tithe, tax-collectors 
for their taxes, tradesmen for their bills. Insolvencies, composi- 



RUIN OF MANY FARMERS ^ 323 

tions, executions, seizures, arrests and imprisonments for deb t 

multiplied . Farmhouses were full of sheriffs' officers. Many large 

farmers lost everything, and became apphcants for pauper allowances. 

Even in Norfolk the number of writs and executions rose from 636 

in 1814 to 844 in 1815 ; in Suffolk from 430 to 850 ; in Worcester 

from 640 to 890. In the Isle of Ely the number of arrests and 

executions increased from 57 in 1812-13 to 263 in 1814-15. In the 

same district several farmers failed for an aggregate sum of £72,500, 

and the creditors in hardly any instance received a dividend. 

Between 1815 and 1820, 52 farmers, cultivating between them 24,000 

acres, failed in Dorsetshire. Agricultural improvements were at 

a^and-still. Live-stock was reduced to a minimum. Lime-kilns 

ceased to bum ; less manure was used on the land ; the least possible 

amount of labour was employed. The tradesmen, imikeepers, and 

shopkeepers of country to^vns suffered heavily by the loss of custom. 

Blacksmiths, wheelwrights, collar makers, harness makers, carpenters, 

found no work. At fii^st the depression had been chiefly f^lt in 

c nrn-grm Yingj ^^'^^^^""^^^ especially on heavy land. But by 1816 it 

had spread to mixed and grass farms. In that year, bad seasons 

created a temporary scarcity ; the rise of wheat to the old prices 

aggravated rural distress without helping any persons except dealers, 

and the wealthier farmers who could afford to wait ; the potato 

crop, which had recently become important in England, failed ; 

perpetual floods in the spring and summer were succeeded by a 

winter of such unusual severity, that the loss of sheep in the North 

was enormous. Landlords, whose land was thrown upon their 

hands, or who had laid charges on their estates, found themselves 

confronted with ruin. The alternative was hard. If the mortgagee > 

foreclosed, the estate sold for a sum which barely recouped the 

charges. Preston,^ in 1816, states that " in Norfolk alone landed^ 

property to the value of one miUion and a half is on sale, without! 

buyers for want of money." One property, for which " £140,000 

was offered two years ago, is now on sale at £80,000." In a second 

pamphlet ^ he states that " some of the best estates of the kingdom j 

are selling at a depreciation of £50 per cent. One of the finest grass' 

farms in Somersetshire sold lately at 10 years purchase." " There 

^ Review of the Present Ruined Condition of the Agricultural and Landed 
Interests, by Richard Preston, M.P. (1816), [Pamphleteer, vol. vii. pp. 149, 
167). 

^Further Observations on the State of the Nation (1816), (Pamphleteer, vol. 
ix. p. 127.) 



324 AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION AND POOR LAW 

are now estates," says Glover,^ " in the most fertile parts of England, 
nay even within 50 miles of London, Avhich are an absolute loss 
to the possessor." The natural reluctance of landlords to lower 
rents may have involv^ed tenants in their fall ; but by 1816 
they are stated to have lost 9 miUions a year by rent reductions 
alone. 2 

For the next twenty years the same record of depression is con- 
tinued. The attention of Parhament was continually called to 
the distress of the landed mterests. Petitions covered the table of 
the House ; innumerable pamphlets and letters demanded remunera- 
ting prices for agricultural produce. Some exaggeration there 
jDrobably was, for the struggle of Free Trade against Protection had 
begun. But the account which has been given of farming conditions 
in the years 1814-16 was substantially confirmed by numerous 
witnesses who gave evidence on the continuance of the distress 
before a series of Select Committees in 1820, 1821, 1822, 1833, and 
1836. Rural conditions were deplorable. Even as late as 1833, it 
was stated that, in spite of rent reductions, which in Sussex amounted 
to 53 per cent., there was scarcely a solvent tenant in the Wealds of 
Sussex and Kent, and that many farmers, having lost all they had, 
were w^orking on the roads. Violent fluctuations in prices co n- 
tinued to overtlirow all ^ alnnlations ; fhp w^^ t^iat area alternatel y 
expanded and contracted : the shding scale of 1829, soon exploite d 
for their ow^n profit bv foreign importers, only increased the spec u- 
lative character of the agricultural industry. On heavy clays less 
capital and less labour were expended ; wet seasons prevented 

^ Observations on the Present State of Pauperism in England, by the Eev. G. 
Glover {Pamphleteer, vol. x. p. 384). 

2 If this statement is correct, it approximately restored the rental of land in 
Great Britain to the figure at which it stood in 1806. In that year a sub- 
division for the fii'st time was made of the classes of property the income of 
which was assessed under Schedule A to the Property Tax. 
Annual Income from 

1. Property from Lands - 

2. Property from Houses - - - 

3. Amount of Tithes 

4. Profits from Manors 

5. Fines on Leases . - - - 

6. Profits of Quanies 

7. Profits of Mines - - - - 

8. Profits of Iron Works 

9. General Profits, etc. ... 



1806 


1814 


£29,834,484 


£39,405,706 


11,913,513 


16,259,399 


2,012,064 


2,732,898 


43,521 


71,672 


-72,502 


216,546 


32,456 


70,378 


363,853 


678,786 


84,615 


647,686 


477,762 


65,260 


£44,834,770 


£60,148,330 



DISTRESS, DISCONTENT, AND DISTURBANCES 325 

farmers from getting on the laud, and caused the discontinuance 
of manure, excessive cropping, and the impoverishment, even the 
abandonment, of the heavier soils. To add to the difficulties of 
clay farmers, the rot of 1830-1, which is described as the most 
disastrous on record, " swept away two milHon sheep." Every- 
where wages were lowered , and men dismissed. Work became 
so scarce that, in spite of the fall of prices, starvation stared the 
agricultural labourer in the face. Distress bred discontent, and 
discontent disturbances, which were fostered by political agitation. 
While the Luddites broke up machinery, gangs of rural labourers 
destroyed threshing machines, or avenged the fancied conspiracy 
of farmers by burning farm-houses, stacks, and ricks, or wrecking 
the shops of butchers and bakers. In the riots of 1830-31, when 
" Swing " and his proselytes were at work, agrarian fires blazed 
from Dorsetshire to Lincolnshire. 

The evidence before the Select Committee of 18^6 sh ows that 
prosperity was beginning to revive. But the long period of 
depression left its permanent mark on the relations of landlord 
and tenant, as well as on the conditions of rural society. It was 
not merely that progress had been lost, or that much of the land 
was impoverished, or that farm buildings fell into ruinous con- 
dition. A p:reat expenditure was needed to reorganise the industry . 
and it was the ow n er of the land who found the money . Necessity 
compelled landed proprietors to reahse their position . Tenants 
had little capital left ; they were also more cautious of risks . 
Recent experience had created a profound (;listrust of long lease s. 
Without security of tenure for a prolonged term of years, no man 
of ordinary prudence would make an outlay on the costly works 
wiiich his predecessors had eagerly undertaken . It was now that 
the distinction becomes clearly marked between landlord's and 
tenant's improvements . Even in the latter class, it was already 
evident that, where the benefits were not exhausted at the expira- 
tion of the tenancy, compensation was payable, and that local 
customs afforded insufficient protection. On these new fines agri- 
culture once more began to advance. At the accession of Queen 
Victoria the worst of the crisis was over. Rents had been adjusted 
to changed conditions. The industry had been reheved from somei 
of the exceptional taxation. The Tithe Commutation Act of 1836 
had removed a great obstacle to progress. The new Poor Law of 
1834 reduced the burden of the rates, and began to re-estabhsh the 



326 AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION AND POOR LAW 

self-respect of the labourer.^ Th e rapid growth of the manufa c- 
turing population not only created an increasing demand for 
agricultural produce, but reUeved the gjlut of the labour-mar ket. 

To s mall fre e holders, whether gentry, yeoman-farmers , _or 
peasant proprietors, the Napoleonic war, with its crushing load of 
taxatio n and subsequent colla pse jof prices^ had been fatal . The 
evidence before the Agricultural Committee of 1833 proves that 
some still held their own in every county. But jit was in the first 
thirty years of the nineteenth century that their numbers dwindled 
most rapidly. Some had consulted their pecuniary interests by 
selling their land at fancy prices, which they took into business. 
Others sold and embarked their capital as tenant-farmers in hiring 
larger areas of land, on which they could take fuUer advantage of 
the price of com. Those who remained on their own estates were 
for the most part ruined. Many had raised mortgages to buy 
more land, or to improve their properties, or to put their children 
out in the world. Prices fell ; but the private debt, as well as the 
public burdens, remained. The struggle was brief ; farming 
deteriorated ; buildings fell out of repair ; creditors pressed ; 
finally the estate was sold. Even where land was free from charges, 
owners could not stand up against the burden of poor-rates, which 
was most crushing to those who employed no labour but their own. 
" That respectable class of English yeomanry ," Avrites Glover ^ in 
1817, " whose fathers from generation to generation have lived on 
the same spot and cultivated the same farms are now rapidly 
dwindling into poverty and decay, sinking themselves int ojjhe 
' class of pauper s." The purchasers were not men of their o wn 
class. After 1812 small capitahsts no longer invested their savings 
in land. Their place as buyers Avas taken by large landowners or 
successful traders. In Yorkshire the number of small proprietors 
was dwindling ; formerly, if one freeholder went, another took his 
place ; but this had now ceased to be the case. The same report 
is made of Shropshire, Worcestershire, and Wiltshire. In Kent 
and Somersetsliire it is stated that, though many freeholders 
retained their land, it was only by the practice of the most rigorous 
self-denial and by entirely ceasing to employ labour. Throughout 

^ In 1837 the expenditure dropped to the lowest point as yet recorded in the 
centiu-y, £4,044,741. 

^ Observations on the Present State of Pauperism, etc. (Pamphleteer, vol. x. 
p. 385). 



ALLOWANCES IN AID OF WAGES ^ 327 

the country, it is evident that most of the small landowners, who, 
in addition to taxes and rates, had to pay annuities or interest on 
mortgages, were forced to sell their properties. Everywhere large 
estates were built up on the ruin of^ small proprietors. 

Morally, if not materially, no class suffered more from the pro- " 
longed period of depression than agricultural labourers. They 
had bitter reason to deplore the shortsighted humanity which in 
the last twenty years of the eighteenth century had swept away 
the old barriers against pauperism. ^ Where Gilbert's Act had been 
adopted, every man was now secure of emplo3niient from the 
parish or, in any case, of maintenance. In every parish, also, 
outdoor reHef for the able-bodied poor was now compulsory on the 
overseers. Already in some districts men out of regular work 
were " on the Rounds," offering their labour from house to house, 
paid, if employed, partly by the householder, partly by the parish, 
and if unemployed, wholly by the parish. Even men in full employ- 
ment were drawn within the net. When in 1795-6 the price of 
provisions rose to famine height, wages were supplemented by 
allowances from the rates. A scale of these allowances was pro- 
claimed by the Berkshire magistrates, proportioned to the price 
of bread and the size of families. From the wages of the unmarried 
labourer, which were zero, the scale ascended, varying with fluctua- 
tions in the cost of the quartern loaf and the number of the children 
of the married labourer. Similar scales of allowances were adopted 
in many other counties. Thus able-bodied men, whether in or out 
of work, became dependent on the rates. That, from the first, 
these allowances delayed the natural rise of wages, lowered earnings 
by making the needs of unmarried men the most important factor, 
and encouraged improvident marriages, is certain. But these evils 
were held in check till 1813. So long as the war and the high prices 
continued, the demand for labour was brisk ; distress was prac- 
tically confined to those who suffered from enclosures, or from the 
dechne of local industries other than the cultivation of the land. 
Agricultural wages rose substantially ; emplojmaent increased owing 
to the extension of tillage ; even the high prices of provisions affected 
labourers less than might have been expected, since the provisions, 
in several parts of the country, were supplied to them at a lower 
cost than the market rates. Except for winter unemployment the 
allowance system was sparingly used. But during the depression 
1 See Appendix II. The Poor Law. 



328 AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION AND POOR LAW 

farmers were driven to economise in their labour bills. Wages 
were greatly reduced or even ceased altogether. The repHes to 
the Circular Letter of the Board of Agriculture insist on the deplor- 
able scarcity of employment. Preston ^ speaks of the daily 
increase in the number of paupers, and of " a large part of the 
community ... in want of emplo3anent though willing to labour." 
" At no period in the memory of man," writes Jacob,^ " has there 
been so great a portion of industrious agricultural labourers 
absolutely destitute as at the present moment." It was now that 
the Poor Law was most perniciously relaxed ; now also that the 
demorahsing system of allowances became the most conspicuous 
feature in its administration. 

The immediate effects of the depressed condition of agriculture 
was a great reduction in the rates of wages, and in the de mand for 
permanent labour. Unless the farmer could lessen his costs of 
productidii. lie was rapidly sinking into bankruptcy. The Poon 
La w, as it was administere d in 1 813-34, in two ways came to his 
assistance. It enabled him to reduce wages to the lowest possible 
point, because it made good the deficiency out of allowances from^ 
the rates. Men discharged as sujDernumeraries were taken on again 
as soon as they were on the poor-book. It also provided him with 
an inexhaustible supply of cheap and temporary labour. Bound 
to defray the whole cost of maintaining the able-bodied poor, the 
parish gladly accepted any payment, however small, in part relief 
of their Habihty. It became almost impossible for a farmer to 
keep a man in permanent employment at reasonable wages. If 
he did, he was only saving the rates for neighbours, who put their 
hands into his pockets to pay their labour bills. Sometimes the 
ratepayers in the parish arranged among themselves to employ 
and pay a number of men proportionate to the rateable value of 
their property. Sometimes the parish agreed with employers to 
sell the labour of so many paupers at a given sum, and paid the 
men the difference between the agreed price and the scale allowance 
awarded to them accordmg to the cost of bread and the number 
of their children. Sometimes the paupers were paraded by the 
overseers on a Monday morning, and the week's labour of each 

1 Review of the Present Ruined Condition, etc., by R. Preston, M.P. (1816), 
(Pamphleteer, vol. vii. p. 129). 

2 Inquiry into the Causes of the Agricultural Distress, by W. Jacob, F.R.S. 
(1817), {Pamphleteer, vol x. p. 411). 



DEMORALISATION OF LABOU^^ 329 

individual was offered at auction to the highest bidder. Sometimes 
the parish contracted for the execution of a piece of work at a given 
sum, and performed it by pauper labour, paying the men according 
to the allowance scale. If men were still unemployed, they were 
formed into gangs under overseers, occupied in more or less unpro- 
ductive work ; it was among these men that the riots of 1830-1 
are said to have originated.^ 

Against the mass of subsidised labour, free labourers could not 
hope to compete. It was so cheap that men who tried to retain 
their independence were undersold. Those who had saved money 
or bought a cottage, could not be placed on the poor-book ; they 
were obliged to strip themselves bare, and become paupers, before 
they could get employment. Every agency that could promote 
the spread of pauperism seemed brought into play. The demoralisa- 
tion gradually extended from the southern counties to the North. 
In the most practical fashion, labourers were taught the lessons 
that improvidence paid better than thrift ; that their rewards did 
not depend on then own exertions ; that sobriety and efficiency 
had no special value above indolence and vice. All ahke had the 
same right to be maintained at the ratepayers' cost. Prudence 
and self-restraint were penalised. The careful were unemployed, 
the careless sujDported bj^ the parish ; the more recklessly a man 
married and begot children, the greater his share of the comforts 
of life. The effect was seen in the rapid growth of population. 
Among unmarried women morahty was discouraged, and un- 
chastity subsidised. The more illegitimate children, the larger the 
allowance from the parish ; at Swaffham a woman with five illegi- 
timate children was in receipt of 18s. a week. The demorahsation 
was so complete that it threatened to overthrow the whole social 
fabric. Voluntary pauperism became a profession, and a paying 
one. Recipients considered themselves as much entitled to parish 
allowances as they would have been to wages that they had earned 
by their mdustry. A generation was springing up which knew 
no source of income but poor relief. When once the spirit of 
independence and self-respect was numbed, and the instincts of 
parental responsibility and filial obhgation were weakened, a 
pauper's life, with its security of subsistence, its hght labour, its 
opportunities of idleness, had attractions for the vicious and easy- 

^ For these varieties of the Labour Rate, the Roundsmen and Parish Em- 
ployment, see the Report on the Poor Laws (1834), pp. 42, 31-32, 36. 



330 AGRICULTURAL DEPRESSION AND POOR LAW 

going. Riots were not always protests against the existing system ; 
they were sometimes means of enforcing its continuance, and 
parochial allowances were maintained by the estabhshment of a 
reign of terror, by threats, violence, and incendiarism.^ 

Rural conditions were fast becoming intolerable. Fortunately, 
there still remained a leaven of agricultural labourers who resented 
pauper dependence as a curse and a disgrace. Fortunately, many 
farmers were learning by experience that cheap labour was bad 
labour, and that quantity was no efficient substitute for quahty. 
Fortunately, also, there were districts which a wiser administration 
of the Poor Law had rescued from the general demoralisation. In 
four parishes, Southwell, Bingham, Uley, and Llangattock, the 
principle had been adopted, with marked success, of refusing relief 
to the able-bodied, except in well-regulated workhouses. Some 
sixty others had been practically depauperised {e.g. Welwyn, Leck- 
hampstead, and Carlisle) by stopping allowances, and exacting 
hard work, at low pay, under strict supervision, as a condition of 
parish rehef. On the other hand, the parish of Cholesbury in 
Buckinghamshire afforded the typical illustration of the extreme 
consequences to which the existing system was necessarily leadmg. 
Out of 98 persons, who had a settlement in the parish, 64 were in 
receipt of poor rehef, and the rates exceeded 24s. in the pound. 
Only 16 acres remained in cultivation. When able-bodied paupers 
were offered land, they refused it on the ground that they preferred 
their present position. The parish was only able to exist by means 
of rates-in-aid levied on other parishes in the hundred. Similar 
conditions prevailed elsewhere. It was evident that the fund 
from which the rates were provided must become exhausted. 
Rents were already disappearing. The Poor Law had destroyed 
the confidence of tenants, deteriorated the moral character of the 
labourer, forced large areas out of cultivation, driven capital to 
seek investment everywhere but in land. A drastic remedy was 
needed. In 1832 a Commission of Inquuy was appointed to examine 
into existmg conditions, and suggest the lines of legislative reform. 

On the recommendations of this Commission was based the Act 
of 1834 " for the Amendment and better Administration of the 
Laws relative to the Poor in England and Wales." A central 
authority was constituted to regulate local administration. The 

1 Extracts from the Information received by H.M. Commissioners as to . . . the 
Poor Laws (1833), p. 3. 



THE POOR LAW OF 1834 ^ 331 

orders issued by the new authority proceeded on the main principle 
of restoring the old Poor Law, without the relaxations which the 
legislation and practice of George III. had introduced. The 
workhouse test for the able-bodied was revived. If a man chose 
to depend for subsistence on the parish rates, instead of on his 
own resources, he was obliged to enter the workhouse and submit 
to its regulations. Out-door relief for the able-bodied was dis- 
couraged, and allowances in aid of wages were prohibited. At the 
same time the laws of settlement were modified, in order that 
labour might become more mobile and more easily transferable in 
obedience to the laws of demand and supply. The effect of these 
and other changes was soon manifest. Expenditure upon poor 
relief fell from £7,036,968 in 1832 to £4,044,741 in 1837. Wages 
rose, though for many years they remained miserably low. Land- 
owners again poured their capital into the land ; farmers regained 
confidence ; agricultural progress was resumed. The evidence laid 
before the Select Committee of 1836 proves that signs of returning 
prosperity were beginning to appear, and that the distress was now 
practically confined to clay land. 



CHAPTER XVI. 
TITHES. 

The incidence of tithes under the old law ; the historical origin of tithes ; 
a free-will offering ; a customary payment ; the appeal to conscience ; 
ecclesiastical penalties for non-payment ; a legal liability : tithes as 
parochial endowments ; the Reformation ; the collection of tithes in 
kind unpopular, and expensive to tithe-owners ; substituted forms of 
payment ; the Tithe Commutation Act of 1836 ; its object and machinery. 

A SERIOUS obstacle to the progress or recovery of agriculture was 
presented by the incidence of tithe upon the produce of the land. 
Tithe-owners were sleeping partners in the cultivation of the soil. 
They contributed neither capital nor labour to the enterprise of the 
farm ; they risked nothing in the venture. But they shared the 
profits derived from increased productiveness. While agriculture 
remained stationary, the burden was light. As soon as farming 
began to advance, and to demand a greater outlay, the grievance 
was acutely felt. In times of prosperity the incidence on produce 
discouraged improvement. In days of adversity, when every penny 
was important to struggling agriculturists, it retarded recovery. 

Since the Tithe Commutation Act of 1836, much of the ancient 
law of tithes has retained only an antiquarian interest. But the 
long history of the payment has left an indelible mark on rural life. 

Historically, tithes were a tenth part, taken yearly, of all produce 
of the land, of the stock nourished upon the land, and of the clear 
profits of the personal industry of tradesmen, artificers, millers, 
and fishermen. In other words, tithes were, as lawyers distinguished 
them by their sources, predial, mixed, or personal. Predial tithes 
were (Jerived directly from the soil, such as corn, hay, beans, peas, 
turnips, hemp, flax, saffron, rushes, fruits, and wood of various 
kinds. Mixed tithes arose from the increase or produce of animals 
maintained by the fruits of the earth, as of cattle, sheep, pigs, 
poultry or their eggs, wool, milk or cheese. Personal tithes on the 



ORIGINALLY A FREEW^LL OFFERING 333 

clear gain of the labour of man had early fallen into disuse. Manu- 
facturers were never liable for the payment, which only survived in 
such forms as a tenth of the fisherman's catch, or a tenth of the 
miller's clear profits on meal ground in all but ancient mills. 
Another classification, distinguished between great and small tithes 
according to the nature of the produce on which they fell. Thus 
great or rectorial tithes included com, beans, peas, hay, and wood ; 
all the other predial tithes, together with all mixed tithes, were 
small or vicarial. 

The legal obhgation to pay tithes, as distinct from the older moral 
duty of giving them, dates back to a remote period of history. No 
real dispute arises respecting their origin, until the point is reached 
where the offering passed from a free-will gift into a hability enforced 
by legal penalties. From the fourth century onwards, throughout 
the Christian world, the practice of dedicating fractional parts of 
produce to rehgious objects was recognised by the faithful as a moral 
duty. As a matter of conscience, the gift was enjoined by Councils 
of the Western Church, and enforced by appeals to the rewards 
and punishments of reHgion. Thus the practice gradually acquired 
something of the binding force of custom. The final stage was 
reached when the State recognised as a civil duty the rehgious 
practice of giving tithes, and compelled payment, not by appeals to 
conscience, nor even by spiritual penalties, but by temporal sanctions. 
This last step, by which tithes passed from moral obligations into 
legal habiHties, was taken at different dates by the different countries 
of Christian Europe. 

Before the landing of Augustine in England (597), and before the 
introduction of Christianity into this country, the moral duty of 
giving tithes had been enjoined on the Continent by at least one 
Church Council. As a matter of conscience, therefore, the first 
missionaries to Anglo-Saxon England preached the consecration of 
a tenth of produce to the service of God, and as a rehgious custom 
the practice was estabhshed by their successors among their Chris- 
tian followers. The appeal was the more forcible since it came 
from men who were beheved to hold the keys of heaven and of hell. 
But there were as yet no divisions into parishes, no parish churches, 
no parochial clergy, and no parochial endowments. The cathedral, 
monastery, and "mother church," generally conventual, of the local- 
ity, were mission centres, from which radiated itinerant missioners, 
who preached under rude crosses the rudiments of Christianity 



334 TITHES 

to the inhabitants of outl3ang districts. Into the hands of the 
Bishop or monastic bodies were paid all the offerings of the faithful. 
The married clergy, outside the cloister, were slowly and with 
difficulty obtained. They were for the most part ignorant, uncouth 
men, recruited from the lower classes of native converts, entrusted 
only with the humbler offices of the ministry. They taught the 
Lord's Prayer and the Apostles' Creed in remote hamlets, watched 
by the bedsides of djdng penitents, and in special cases admuiistered 
the rites of baptism. It is not strange that, on earth at least, their 
lowly labours should have been ignored or forgotten. Very different 
was the fate of the monastic bodies. To them feU power, riches, 
credit. Kings were their niu"sing-fathers, queens their nursing 
mothers ; the wealthy nobles vied with one another in the munifi- 
cence of their endowments. In comparison with existing civiHsation, 
the monastic bodies attained a standard of wealth, refinement and 
culture which was at least as high as that of later times. They laid 
acre to acre, and field to field. For miles round their farms, barns, 
flocks, herds, fish-ponds, and dovecotes dotted the country. They 
entranced the senses by the beauty of their architecture, their 
music, their ritual ; they commanded respect by their learning ; 
they inspired awe by the austerities of their fives. They alone 
could offer an inviolable resting-place for the dead, since there were 
no parochial burial-grounds, and they practically monopofised 
rights of sepulture. Thus in death, as well as in fife, they appealed 
irresistibly to the favour of the world. 

TiU the closing period of the Anglo-Saxon Church, there were, 
as has been said, no resident parochial clergy. Ecclesiastical 
organisation proceeded downwards, not upwards. It was provincial, 
diocesan, conventual, before it became local and parochial. The 
cathedrals of the dioceses and the conventual churches of the 
monasteries at first provided for the refigious wants of the people. 
Yet the material was ready for the introduction of the parochial 
system. To\\Tiships suggested the necessary divisions, and viUage 
communities, on the self-sufficing system of these agrarian societies, 
had probably been accustomed to provide for their pagan priests. 
From the first the rulers of the Church felt the need of continuous 
local ministrations, though, probably, the earfiest advances towards 
a parochial system were forced upon the country by external causes. 
From the ninth century onwards Danish invasions struck a series 
of staggering blows at the monastic organisation. Monasteries 



ORIGIN OF PAROCHIAL ORGANISATIONS 335 

were the first objects of the invaders' attack ; their wealth and their 
defencelessness made them an easy, as well as a tempting, prey. 
They were sacked, pillaged, burned, and their inmates either dis- 
persed or massacred. To save rural Christianity from extinction 
by a relapse into paganism it became necessary to encourage local 
efforts, to favour the erection of private chapels, to enlarge the 
powers of the rural priests or chaplains by whom they were served, 
even to consecrate as burial-grounds the precincts in which they 
stood. Thus a permanent resident clergy began to grow up on 
the rural estates of great nobles in connection with private chapels 
and oratories. With the gradual extension of this local provision 
for permanent rehgious ministrations begins the increased importance 
attached to the payment of tithes as parochial endowments. 

Early documents confirm this explanation of the growth of 
parochial tithes. On the one side, the Chuich, backed by all her 
supposed power over the destinies of man, urged the consecration 
of tenths to the service of God. On the other hand, the earthly 
influence of the Crown, sometimes by royal admonitions, coupled 
with threats of loss of favour, sometimes by attesting and confirm- 
ing the decrees of sjTiods, sometimes even by treaties of peace with 
the Danes, supported the demand of the Church, and assisted in 
making the custom of paying tithes universal. Under this double 
pressure the practice grew. But it was not till 944 that King 
Edmund's synod at London for the first time made non-pajrment of 
tithes an ecclesiastical offence to be punished by excommunication. 
Henceforward the Church claimed as an ecclesiastical right what she 
had hitherto received, if at all, as a free-will offering. The moral 
duty had become a religious obhgation, enforced by spiritual 
penalties. 

The payment of tithes was not yet a legal liabihty, enforced by 
temporal sanctions. Nor were tithes, or any part of them, as yet, 
ecclesiastically or legally, appropriated as parochial endowments. 
But the times were ripenmg for both changes. Voluntary dedica- 
tions of free-will offerings had been acted upon by the rehgious 
bodies to whom they had been made. On the faith of their con- 
tinuance cathedrals had been erected and a diocesan system 
estabhshed ; monasteries had been founded ; manorial churches 
had been built and some local provision made for their service : 
the dim outhne of a future parochial system could be discerned. 
By these voluntary dedications the original donors had alienated 



336 TITHES 

portions of their own property. If neither appeals to conscience 
nor threats of excommunication sufficed to obtain pa3niient, the 
State might not unreasonably be asked to enforce it as a legal 
liability, either against the original donors or against their repre- 
sentatives who had inherited estates already subject to the dedica- 
tion of the consecrated portion. 

In the reign of Edgar the Peaceful, during the primacy of Dunstan, 
the payment of tithes was made a legal liability, universal in its 
application. At the same time a step was taken towards the 
appropriation of a portion to the maintenance of district churches 
of a particular class. At Andover, in 970, the king and his Witen- 
agemot issued an ecclesiastical ordinance, which was to all intents 
and purposes an Act of Parliament. The ordinance creates no tithes. 
On the contrary it presupposes their existence. It regulates the 
times when they were to be paid, and makes their payment a legal 
liability, enforced by a pecuniary penalty and a power of distraint. 
It does not profess to give them to the clergy. The first article 
ran as follows : — " That God's churches be entitled to every right ; 
and that every tithe be rendered to the old minster, to which the 
district belongs ; and be then so paid, both from a thane's inland {i.e. 
land granted in the lord's own hands), and from geneat-land {i.e. 
land granted out for services), so as the plough traverses it." Un- 
doubtedly, the law not only protects the Church in the possession 
of tithes already dedicated, but transforms the moral duty, religious 
custom, and ecclesiastical obhgation into a legal hability. A 
reason is suggested by the passages which regulate their division. 
The general right of the " old minster," the mother church of the 
district — whether coUegiate or conventual — to the local tithes was 
recognised. But an exception was allowed. If any landowner had 
built on his private estate a church with a burial-place attached, 
he was to assign to its support one-third of the local tithes. The 
remaining two-thirds were to be paid to the " mother church." 
If the landowner had built on his estate a church or oratory without 
a burial-place, the local tithes went to the " mother church," and 
he might provide privately for the priest of his private chapel. In 
other words, the old diocesan and monastic system still remained in 
force ; but, side by side with it, had grown up manorial churches, 
providing " shrift districts " with burial-grounds, and therefore 
claiming some more permanent support than the caprice of the 
builder or of his successors. They were not yet parish churches ; 



CONSECRATION OF PARISH CHURCIiES 337 

but they were their original type, and in the private chapels or 
" field churches " of the greater landowners are seen the germs of a 
further extension of a parochial system. 

The law of Edgar remained unaltered at the Conquest. Practically 
re-enacted by Canute and by Edward the Confessor, it was accepted 
by WilHam the Conqueror. As years passed, district or parochial 
churches were multiplied by their voluntary founders in various 
parts of the country. Some were built by kings or great nobles as 
private chapels ; some by bishops, some by monastic houses, some 
by landowners, some by freemen on the landowners' estates. 
Church-building ;f>roceeded on no general system, and without any 
uniformity of date. There was a gradual growth under varying 
circumstances ; but the people, acting through the legislature in a 
national capacity, neither built, nor endowed, nor repaired these 
churches. As with the buildings, so with the endowments. They 
were gradually appropriated to particular churches, in different 
proportions, without either system or uniformity. No priest serving 
a district could enforce any claim to local tithes, except for the third 
which was appropriated only to churches with burial-grounds. 
Though the payment had become a legal habihty, the dedication of 
tithes to particular parochial uses is, therefore, still unexplained. 
Something more remained to be done. The final steps were taken 
between the eleventh and thirteenth centuries. 

The chief instrument by which local endowments were secured 
to parish churches was consecration. A founder desired to build a 
church on his estate, and to have it consecrated. But the bishop 
could refuse to consecrate, unless proper provision was made for its 
maintenance. Between the bishop and the founder, who in building 
the church was a free agent, there might be bargaining. There 
might also be opposition from outside. The neighbouring monastery 
perhaps resented the intrusion of a new church and a new priest 
into the field which it had regarded as its own. But at no stage, 
either in the bargain or in the opposition, does the national will 
express itself. Throughout, the founder was at first practically 
master of the situation. There was no compulsion on him to build 
a church at all. If he did, not only did he himself nominate and 
invest the priest, with or without the consent of the bishop, but he 
could delay appointing to vacancies, and thus leave the church 
without services. Even where local endowment had been secured 
to the parochial church at consecration, the system was thus in- 

Y 



338 TITHES 

complete. Both points were settled by ecclesiastical discipline at 
the close of the twelfth century, The necessity for institution by 
the bishop was estabhshed, and the bishop's right to appoint to 
vacant benefices, after a certain period of delay, was vindicated. 

A further step was still required. The legal liability for the 
payment of tithes was satisfied if, with the exception of the third 
secured to the parochial churches which possessed burial-grounds, 
pajonent was made to any ecclesiastical body. A patron might 
increase the pittances of the poor priests at his door, or offer it to 
the collegiate cathedral, or heap the grain in the barn of a monastery, 
or sell the tithes issuing from his estate to any rehgious body that 
he chose, or even, by collusion, store the corn in the granaries of 
himself or his lay friends. Even after the formation of parishes 
had become general, and after the claim of parochial churches was 
commonly recognised, it was still possible, and still usual, to grant 
the local tithes to distant houses of rehgion. The same causes were 
at work which in Anglo-Saxon times sacrificed the secular clergy 
to the monasteries. Norman landlords preferred to assign their 
tithes to monastic bodies, with whom they were more in s3Tnpathy 
than with the native priests of rural districts. The increase of 
monasticism after the Conquest necessarily ahenated a large part 
of the local tithes which naturally would have increased the local 
provision for religious services. This option on the part of land- 
oMTiers is inconsistent with the theory of the endowment of parishes 
by an exercise of the national will, expressed in some general law. 
It Avas not till the thirteenth century, and then not by any statute 
or Act of Parhament, but by the growth of custom, that the land- 
owner's freedom of choice was hmited. No doubt the growth of 
the custom was aided by the practice of such specific dedications 
of tithes to the parochial church as those of Hay and ExhaU. At 
common law the courts presumed that the parish church was 
prima facie entitled to the tithes which issued from the lands of the 
parish. By this presumption the burden of proof was thrown on 
tithe-payers or other claimants to show that the local tithes had 
been either paid to some collegiate or conventual body for so long 
a period as to create a prescriptive right, or had been by express 
grant alienated to some other religious body. 

It was to custom that the parochial clergy appealed ; other 
claimants rehed on immemorial usage or express grant. This fact 
is in itself of extreme importance. Had any enactment of the 



TITHES AS PAROCHIAL ENDOWMENTS 339 

national assembly established the primd facie right of the parochial 
clergy to the tithes of the parish, they would have rehed, not on 
custom, but on statute. If, as parochial endowments, tithes were 
statutory in their origin, we should expect to find that they commence 
with the legislation by which they are alleged to be created, and 
that the payment was certain in practice, uniform in amount, 
identical in source. If, on the other hand, the endowment of parish 
churches with tithes originated in a series of voluntary dedications, 
and if the State merely protected a property which was none the 
less real because it began as a free-will offering, we should expect 
to find that customary payments preceded any recorded legislation, 
and were uncertain in practice, varying in amount, irregular in 
source. Historical facts confirm the second view. The voluntary 
payment of tithes in this country preceded, by upwards of three 
centuries, parochial organisation, as well as both ecclesiastical and 
secular legislation. The first secular enactment on the subject 
assumes the prior existence of the charge, and for more than two 
centuries afterwards allows tithe-payers a wide freedom in the 
choice of the rehgious body to which payment was made. When 
this freedom was limited, it was restricted not by legislation but 
by the groAvth of custom. Both in respect of the persons to whom 
tithes were due, and of the produce on which they were payable, 
the practice was not certain, but uncertain. The amount paid was 
varying, not uniform. The sources from which the payment was 
derived, are not identical, but irregular. If, therefore, the State 
endowed parochial churches with tithes, all those signs, which 
would naturally accompany such a national act, are conspicuously 
absent. On the other hand, all those signs, which naturally 
indicate the legislative protection of customary practices, are con- 
conspicuously present. 

The gradual, piecemeal, and discretionary endowment of parochial 
churches with the tithes of the parish has left its mark on the 
existing organisation. It explains, for instance, as no other assump- 
tion can explain, the freedom from the payment which the " Hall," 
" Court," or " Manor " farm frequently enjoyed ; it lies at the root 
of the distinction between rectorial and vicarial tithes, and between 
ecclesiastical appropriators and lay impropriators ; it suggests the 
reason why land in one parish should be charged with tithes for the 
benefit of the church of another parish. Many of the old anomahes 
in the law of tithes have been smoothed into comparative uniformity 



340 TITHES 

by the Tithe Commutatiou Act of 1836. But the previous history 
of the charge renders it difficult to beheve that the nation ever by a 
legislative action endowed j^arochial churches with the local tithes. 

The Reformation left the parochial organisation untouched. But 
it made an important change, which greatly embittered objections to 
the payment of tithes. It alienated a considerable portion of the 
tithes from religious uses. Rectories, together with the local tithes, 
might be, and often had been, " appropriated " to a monastery or 
other rehgious corporation, which appomted vicars to discharge the 
religious duties attached to the endowment. Originally the stipend 
of the vicar was arbitrary. But gradually it was recognised that 
the person responsible for rehgious ministrations in the parish ought 
to have some fixed determinate means of support. This was gener- 
ally made by endowing the vicarage with land, or by assigning to 
it some portion of the great tithes, or the whole of the small tithes, 
or by a combination of all three methods. At the Dissolution of 
the Monasteries all the rectorial tithes in their possession, which 
had not been already allocated to the support of vicarages, passed 
into the hands of the Crown, and were subsequently granted out 
by letters patent to lay subjects. These lay grantees were called 
" lay rectors," or " impropriators," in order to distinguish them from 
the original " appropriators," who were of necessity spiritual persons 
or ecclesiastical corporations. When the Tithe Commutation Act 
was passed in 1836, and tithes of produce were commuted into rent- 
charges, it was found that nearly one-fourth of the annual value 
had thus been diverted from rehgious purposes into the hands of 
laymen.^ There is strong evidence that the lay impropriators or 
their lessees, who were generally absentees, and without other 
interests in the parish, exacted their legal dues with a strictness 
which was relatively rare among clerical tithe-owoiers. 

Tithes in themselves, and apart from their incidence, could scarcely 
be regarded as a legitimate grievance by either owners or occupiers of 
land, especially as no attack was as yet made on the religious objects 
to which they were devoted. No landlords could honestly believe 

1 The net annual value of the tithes, after a deduction of 40 per cent, from 
the gross value, was in 1836 estimated at £4,053,985 6s. 8§d. Of this total 
sum £962,289 15s. were then in the hands of lay impropriators. But this 
figure does not take into account the large amount of lay tithes which had 
been, in the course of three centuries, extinguished by purchases on the part 
of landowners, or bought and given back to the parochial clergy, or restored 
by those who, like Spelman, considered their retention by laymen a sacrilege. 



TITHES IN KIND ^ 341 

that the payment robbed them of any part of the rents to which 
they were justly entitled. For centuries, in every transfer of land, 
whether by purchase or inheritance, the estimated value of tithes 
had been previously deducted from the value of the estate so bought 
or mherited. Nor could any tenant honestly complain that tithes 
increased the burden of his rent. Land only commands what it is 
worth. If 100 acres of land fetched £1 per acre, it made no pecuniary 
difference to the farmer whether he paid £100 to the landoAvner or 
£90 to the landow^ier and £10 to the tithe-o\\Tier. But the real prac- 
tical grievance was the incidence of the charge upon the produce of 
the land. In this way tithes become a charge which was increased by 
good farming, or diminished by bad, — a tax on every additional outlay 
of money and labour, — a check upon enterprise and improvement. 

Tithes in kind were admittedly out of date. Though rents and 
wages had long been placed on a money basis, a tithe-owner could 
stiU exact payment in the ancient fashion. As a fact, however, 
the Reports to the Board of Agriculture (1793-1815) prove that, at 
the close of the eighteenth century, comparatively Uttle tithe was 
collected in kind. Especially was this the case when the tithe was 
in the hands of clerical owners. For this change of practice there 
were many reasons. Collection in kmd was extremely unpopular. 
Where it prevailed, farmers showed their dislike to the system in 
various ways. Many tenants so greatly resented putting money 
into the pockets of tithe-owners that they preferred to lose it them- 
selves, and refused to plough up pastures which would have been 
more profitable under tillage. Sometimes the tenant left his tith- 
able land unmanured. A Hertfordshire farmer, for instance, 
occupied land in two parishes, in one of which a reasonable composi- 
tion was paid, while, in the other, tithe was collected in kind. The 
result was that he farmed one part of his occupation with spirit on 
improved methods, and that the dung-cart never reached the other 
portion of his land. Sometimes the tenants made the collection as 
inconvenient as possible. Thus a Hampshire farmer gave notice 
to the tithe-owner that he was about to draw a field of turnips. 
When the tithe-owner's servants, horses and waggons had come on 
the land, the farmer drew ten turnips, gave one to the tithing-mari, 
and said that he would let his master know when he drew any more. 
In a wet season the collection was often the cause of heavy loss. 
Notice had to be given to the tithe-owner to set out the tithe. 
Farmers risked a lawsuit, if they carried their crops before the 



342 TITHES 

process was completed. Consequently, in catchy seasons the rain 
often outstripped the slow progress of the tithing-man, and the 
crops were ruined. 

The collection of tithes in kind, regulated as it was by the subtle 
and technical distinctions of case-made law, provoked endless bicker- 
ings, disputes and htigation. If tithe-owners were clergymen, 
living in their parishes, they naturally welcomed any reasonable 
system of iDa\Tnent which enabled them to Hve on friendly terms 
with their parishoners. Non-resident plurahsts, or lay impropriators 
who let out the tithes to proctors, could better afford to defy the 
pubHc opinion of the neighbourhood. But they were not always 
proof against business arguments. The heavy cost of collecting 
tithes in kind suggested the commercial prudence of adopting other 
arrangements. Barns must be built and repaired for the storage of 
produce. The weekly wages of servants must be met. Waggons and 
horses, with the necessary cart-sheds and stabling must be provided 
and maintained. The cost, not only of collecting, but of threshing, 
dressing and marketing corn had to be met. The net proj&ts of a 
crop were thus reduced to a minimum by the duplication of expenses. 
Various forms of pa3mient were therefore substituted for collection 
in kind. Sometimes, and especially under enclosures of open fields, 
tithes were extinguished by allotments of land of equivalent value. 
Sometimes it was considered that the increase of the area of land 
held in mortmain or the difficult position of clerical landowners 
were objections to the exchange of tithes for their equivalent in 
landed property, and a corn-rent was substituted. Sometimes 
tithes were commuted for a composition calculated on the acre or 
on the pound of rent paid, and either fixed for a term of years or 
based on an annual estimate of the value of the crops. Sometimes 
farmers had the option of taking the tithable portion at the sur- 
veyor's valuation or leaving it to be collected by the tithe-owner. 
Sometimes, in a few fortunate parishes, a modus had by immemorial 
usage taken the place of tithes. Moduses were payments of definite 
sums, which had been permanently fixed in amount at a time when 
the purchasing power of money had been far greater than it had 
since become. They were, therefore, advantageous to the tithe- 
payer. A modus of Id. on every fleece shorn in the parish was no 
real equivalent to a tenth of the value of the wool.^ 

' For various methods of collecting tithes in the different counties 1793- 
1815, see Appendix VII. 



THE BARREN LANDS ACT ^ 343 

No variety in forms of payment could entirely remove the reason- 
able objection to a tithe of produce in kind. So long as farming 
remained stagnant the grievance was imperceptible. It became 
acute when progressive methods of agriculture were generally 
adopted. Here and there tithe-owners recognised the altered con- 
ditions by allowing deductions from their tithes to meet the cost of 
all purchased manures. But the practice was by no means general. 
The fair adjustment of compositions was in other ways extremely 
difficult. Tithable crops were of greater value to farmers, who 
could collect and market them at a small additional expense, than 
they were to tithe-owiiers, whose necessary outlay diminished their 
net profits by a half. The difference allowed a large margin for 
dispute. Even when compositions were reasonable, they tithed 
the increased produce of improved husbandry. Land, highly 
cultivated, might be valued at 3s. 6d. an acre ; soil of the same natural 
quahty, under slovenly management, might escape with Is. 6d, In 
the case of wastes, the objection to tithes on produce was strongly 
felt as an obstacle to improvement. When land, which at the best 
had afforded only rough pasture, was reduced to cultivation, owners 
and occupiers risked labour and money on a venture which might 
succeed or fail. In either event tithe-owners were safe ; they 
profited by the success, and lost nothing by the failure. The legis- 
lature had endeavoured to meet the case. Under the Barren Lands 
Act,^ barren heaths and waste grounds were exempted from tithes 
for seven years after they had been reduced for the first time to 
cultivation. But the decisions of the law courts deprived improvers 
of the benefits which they expected from the Act. Only land which 
was so barren that it paid no tithe by reason of its barrenness was 
held to be exempt. The initial cost of draining fen-lands, or grub- 
bing and stubbing wood-lands, or of paring and burning moors and 
heaths was not to be taken into consideration. Whatever the cost 
at which the land had been fitted for cultivation, the only question 
to be asked was whether, when ploughed and sown, it was so naturally 
fertile as to produce a crop, or so naturally barren that it would yield 
nothing without an extraordinary expenditure on hming, chalking, 
marling, dunging, or manuring. Only in the latter case could the 
seven years' exemption be legally claimed. 

The law of tithes needed complete revision. Its inadequacy to 
meet changed conditions had long been felt. The necessity for a 
1 2 and 3 Ed. VI, c. 13, 



344 TITHES 

large expenditure of capital in order to recover the ground which 
had been lost during a long period of disaster forced the question to 
the front. In 1836 the difficulty was solved. Peel in 1835 had 
proposed the voluntary commutation of tithe. Lord John Russell, 
adoptmg in his Bill the machinery which Peel had sketched, made 
commutation compulsory. When once this point was decided, 
party considerations were for the moment subordinated : Whig 
and Tory loyally co-operated to frame a workable scheme. The 
aim of legislators was to commute tithe of produce m kmd for a 
variable money pajonent charged on the land, to make the commuted 
sum fluctuate with the purchasing power of money, to preserve the 
existing relations between the values of tithable produce and the 
cost of Uving. It never attempted to fix the payment, once and for 
aU, at the sum which represented the value that tithe then possessed. 
On the contrary, it converted tithes into a corn-rent, fluctuating in 
value according to the septennial average of the prices of wheat, 
barley and oats. 

The first step was to determine the value of the tithes ; the second 
to adjust the purchasing power of the money payment at which 
they were commuted. 

Within a limited time tithe-owners and tithe-payers of any 
parish might agree upon the total sum to be paid in Heu of tithes. 
This agreement was first to receive the assent of the patron ; 
secondly, to be communicated to the bishop ; and, thirdly, to be 
approved and ratified by the Commissioners. If no agreement was 
arrived at, a local enquiry was held on the spot by the Commissioners 
or their assistants, who estimated the value of the tithe, taking as 
their basis the actual receipts of the tithe-owner during the preceding 
seven years ; framed their draft award ; deposited it for the in- 
spection of interested parties ; and, finally, confirmed their award, 
which from that time was binding upon tithe-owners and tithe- 
payers. 

The mode in which the purchasing power of money was intended 
to be preserved was as follows. The average of the gross amiual 
value of the actual receipts of the tithe-o^^ner was ascertained in 
money for the seven preceding years. The net annual value, 
arrived at by deducting all just expenses, was taken as the permanent 
commutation of the great and small tithes of the parish. This net 
sum was divided into three equal parts, and the average value for 
the seven years ending with 1835 was taken for wheat, barley and 



THE PRINCIPLE OF COMMUTATION 345 

oats. It was then asked how many bushels of wheat could be 
bought at cost price by one of these equal portions, how many of 
barley by the second, how many of oats by the third. Each £100 
of tithe was divided into three equal sums of £33 6s. 8d. ; the 
septennial averages for the three grains were respectively 7s. 0|d. 
for a bushel of wheat ; 3s. II |d. for a bushel of barley ; 2s. 9d. for 
a bushel of oats. In 1836 at those prices £33 6s. 8d. bought 94- 96 
bushels of wheat, or 168" 42 bushels of barley, or 242*42 bushels of 
oats. These have been the fixed multiphers in use ever since. 
Each year the average prices for the last seven years are multiphed 
by these fixed quantities, and the result is the tithe rent charge for 
the coming year. It will be noticed that the charge is affected 
most by variations in the price of oats, and least by those of wheat. 
One other point requires to be mentioned. Lord Althorp in 1833, 
Sir Robert Peel in 1835, Lord John Russell in 1836 were agreed that 
the payment should be transferred from occupiers to owners of land. 
Section 80 of the Act of 1836 empowered tenants to deduct the rent- 
charge from the rent payable to the landlord. But the section was 
permissive only. For mutual convenience tenants paid the rent 
charge direct to the tithe-owner, and their other rent to the landlord 
was calculated on this basis. By the Tithe Rent Charge Recovery 
Act of 1891 the tenant was no longer permitted to be the conduit- 
pipe for the pajrment. The habihty to pay the tithe rent charge 
was transferred to the landowner ; the tithe-owner's remedy of 
distress was altered into a process through the county court ; and, 
instead of the corn averages absolutely determining the amount 
of tithe rent charges, provision was made in certain cases for a 
reduced payment when the charge exceeded a certain proportion of 
the annual value of the land. 



CHAPTER XVII. 
HIGH FARMING. 1837-1874. 

Condition of agriculture in 1837 ; current explanation of the distress ; pre- 
paration for a new start in farming ; legislative changes ; development of 
a railway system ; live-stock in 1837 ; the general level of farming ; 
foundation of the Royal Agricultural Society ; notable improvements, 
1837-74 ; extension of drainage ; purchase of feeding stuffs ; discovery 
of artificial fertilisers ; mechanical improvements and inventions ; Repeal 
of the Corn Laws ; the golden age from 1853 to the end of 1862 ; rapid 
progress in the " Fifties " ; pedigree mania in stock-breeding. 

The reign of Queen Victoria began in the midst of a transition stage 
from one state of social and industrial development to another. 
A complete change of agricultural front was taking place, which 
necessitated some displacement ^f_the_c]assesjbhat had previously 
occupied or cultivated the soil. The last ten years of the present 
century have raised the question whether agriculturists are not now 
passing through another transition stage which, hke its predecessor, 
may effect another agricultural revolution and result in another 
disruption of rural society. 

Roughly speaking, the fir st t hirty-seven years of the newreign 
formed an era of advancing prosperity a nd pro gress, of rising rents 
and profits, of the rapid multipHcation of fertihsing agencies, of 
an expanding area of corn cultivation, of more numerous, better 
bred, better fed, better housed stock, of varied improvements in 
every kind of implement and machinery, of growing expenditure on 
the making of the land by drainage, the construction of roads, the 
erection of farm buildings, and the division into fields of convenient 
size. So far as the standard of the highest farming is concerned, 
agric ulture has made but little adv ance smce the " F ifties." The 
last jtwenty-six_yeajsJo f the re ign, on the other hand, were a period 
of agricultural adversity — of falling rents, dwindhng profits, con- 



AN OLD EXPLANATION OF DISTRESS 347 

tracting areas of arable cultivation, diminishing stock, decreasing 
expenditure on land improvement. 

In 1837 the farming industry had passed through a quarter of a 
century of misfortunes, aggravated by a disordered currency, bank 
failures, adverse seasons, labour difficulties, agrarian discontent. 
During times of adversity it has always been the practice to charge 
landowners, farmers, and even labourers with extravagance, to trace 
distress to their increased luxury, to attribute their domestic diffi- 
culties to their less simple habits. The explanation is as old as the 
hills. Arthur Young, writing in 1773 On the Present State of 
Waste Lands, remarks that the landed gentry were beggared by 
their efforts to rival their wealthier neighbours who had amassed 
fortunes in trade. The rural frog burst in his efforts to equal the 
proportions of the civic ox. " The antient prospect which afforded 
pleasure to twenty generations is poisoned by the pagodas and 
temples of some rival neighbour ; some oilman who builds on the 
solid foundation of pickles and herrings. At church the hveries 
of a tobacconist carry all the admiration of the village ; and how 
can the daughter of the antient but decayed gentleman stand the 
competition at an assembly with the point, diamonds and tissues 
of a haberdasher's nieces ? " Then- tenants did not escape from 
similar charges. In 1573 Tusser had alluded to farmers with " hawk 
on hand " who neglected their business for sport ; in the nineteenth 
century it was said to be the hunting-field or the racecourse which 
attracted them from the farm or the market. In 1649 Walter Bhth 
had attributed the rural depression of that day to the " high 
stomachs " of the farmers. So in 1816 the wiseacres of the London 
clubs vehemently contended that farmers had only to return from 
claret to beer, and their wives from the piano to the hen-house, 
and agricultural distress would be at an end. It was reserved for 
an imaginative versifier in 1801 to charge them with soaking five- 
pound notes instead of rusks in their port wine. Somewhat similar 
in tone was the outcry against labourers. " We hear," writes 
Borlase, the Cornish antiquary, in 1771, " every day of murmurs of 
the common people ; of want of employ ; of short wages ; of dear 
provisions. There may be some reason for this ; our taxes are heavy 
upon the necessaries of life ; but the chief reason is the extravagance 
of the vulgar in the unnecessaries of life." Among the tin workers 
in his parish were three-score snuff-boxes at one time ; of fifty girls 
above fifteen years old, forty-nine had scarlet cloaks. " There is 



348 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

scarce a family in the parish, I mean of common labourers, but have 
tea, once if not twice a day, ... In short, aU labourers live above 
their conditions." 

The same explanations with regard to aU classes of agriculturists 
were repeated in 1837, and have been periodically offered ever since. 
The diagnosis of disease would not be so popular if it were not easy 
and to some extent true. It is, to say the least, inadequate. When 
the standard of hving rises for all classes, agriculturists are not the 
only men who spend money more lavishly than the prudence which 
criticises after the event can justify. But the true explan ation of 
the distress lay in the conditions already described. The oldjnstru- 
ment of farming had failed ; the new had not been perfected. An 
agricultural revolution was in^ _£rogress, which was none the less 
complete in its operation because it Mas peaceful in its processes. 

In 1837_^agricultiirejyv'j^ laQguishing ; farming ha d retrog raded ; 
heavy clay-lands were either abandoned or foul, and in a miserable- 
state of cultivation. Indifferent pasture, when first ploughed, had 
produced good com crops from the accumulated mass of elements of 
fertiUty which they had stored. But this savings bank of wealth 
had been soon exhausted. At peace-prices haK crops ceased to be 
remunerative, and the newly ploughed arable area was now recover- 
ing itself from exhaustion to grass as best it could mthout assistance. 
Lighter soils had suffered comparatively little ; turnips, and the 
Norfolk system had helped the eastern counties to bear the stress of 
the storm, yet, even there, farmers had " had to put down their 
chaises and their nags." Much of the progress made between 1790 
and 1812 had been lost. Nor was this the worst feature. The 
distrust which prevailed between farmers and their men had ex- 
tei^de d to tenants and their landlords. Men Avho had contracted 
to pay war rents from peace profits were shy of leases. Por at least 
a generation confidence was shaken between landlord and tenant. 

The ViriorVifpr j^TTTpTn fh^ pi>tiifp wag fiiaf,, jn the mi dst of mu ch" 
suffering, the ground had been prepared for new conditions. Smal l 
yeomen, openfield farmers, and commoners could never have fed a 
manufacturing populationT They could not have initiated and would 
not have adopted agricultural improvements, of which some were still 
experimental, and of which aU required an initial expenditure. It 
was from these classes that the most bigoted opponents of " Practice 
with Science " were recruited, and their contempt was heartily 
sincere for the innovations of the " apron-string " farmer. Socially 



RESULTS OF AGRICULTURAL DISTRESS 349 

valuable though they were, they were becoming commercially di s- 
credited . Their diaappeaipnce was a sociaHpss ; but it had become 
an economic necfissit y. The land could no longer be cultivated for 
the needs of a scanty, scattered j)opulation, occupied in the tillage 
of the soil, or engaged in one-man handicrafts. So long as England 
depended for food on her own produce, — a condition which lasted 
a quarter of a century after the repeal of the Corn Laws, — it was 
requisite that farming should be transformed from a self-sufficing 
domestic industry into a profit-earning manufactory of bread, beef, 
and mutton. Eloocl, upon the scale that changed conditions 
demanded, could_only be produced upon land which had been 
prepajed^for the purp ose by the outlay of capijialist landlords and . 
the intelhgent eriterprise of large tena nt-fa rmers. 

In other respects, also, the distress of 1813-37 produced good 
results. So long as war prices prevailed, prosperous years had 
brought wealth to slovens, and sluggards had amassed riches in their j 
sleep. The collapse of ^prosperity spurred the energies and enter- f 
prise of both landloj;ds and tenants, who could only hold their own . 
by economising the cost and increasing the amount of production/ | 
Within certain limits, low prices^ and keen competition compelled' 
improvement. Again, though the attraction of war-prices had 
driven the plough through much valuable pasture, it had also supplied 
the incentive which added hundreds of thousands of acres of Avastes 
to the cultivated area of the country. Finally, during the era ^f 
Protficiion, la ndlords and far mers had learned _tQ-rely- too entirely 
upon Parliarnentary Jielp in their difficulties. They had been prone 
to expect that alterations in the protective duties would turn the 
balance between the success and failure of their harvests. Now, 
disappointment after disappointment had taught them the useful 
lesson that they could expect no immediate assistance from legis- 
■ lative interference, and that, if they wanted aid, they must help 
themselves. ''' 

Meanwhile legislation had been active in many useful directions. 
The agricultural revolution, and the effects ahke of war and peace, 
had completely disorganised the labour market. Parhament co- 
operated with industrial changes in redressing the balance between 
demand and supply and in adapting the relations of capital and 
labour to new conditions. For agricultural labourers the Poor-Law of 
J834 did. what the Factory legislation of 1833 had done for artisans. 
The change produced immediate efifect. The number of paupers 



360 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

steadily (iiminished, and the poor-rates feU from seven millions in 
1832 to four millions in 1837. New means of transport had been 
provided by the opening up of canals. Increased facilities of 
communication had been supplied by progress in the art of road- 
construction. Though Turnpike Trusts were proving inefficient on 
the great highways, the first step towards the improvement of minor 
roads had been taken by the Act of 1835, which substituted a rate 
for the old statute labour. Another legislative result of the pro- 
longed agricultural distress had been the Tithe Commutation Act of 
1836. The incidence of the charge was shifted ; it no longer operated 
as a check to the expenditure of capital or a discouragement to 
skilful and enterprisiiag farming. 

It was a period of preparation, the full significance of which was 
then imperfectly understood. Few persons in 1837 could have 
foreseen the imminence of social and industrial changes which 
introduced to British farming an unexampled era of prosperity, or 
could have foretold that new markets would not only be opened up, 
but brought to the doors of agriculturists. Signs of better times 
were indeed faintly visible. Manufacturing progress was beginning 
to tell upon agriculture ; steam navigation was stimulating trade ; 
joint-stock banks helped farmers to face their difficulties ; the new 
system of poor-law administration was restoring the labour market 
to healthier conditions ; beef, mutton, wool, barley, and oats sold 
briskly. Above aU, the Avhole co untry was beginning to r espond 
to the v ast imp ulse which the introduction of railways gave to its 
inteUigencCj its intercourse, its enterprise, its agriculture, manu- 
facture, and commerce. Without assistance or control by the State, 
in the face of many difficulties and prejudices, railways were being 
built piecemeal by private energy and capital. They were stUl in 
their infancy. It was not till JL821 th at the Act for the construction 
of the Stockton and Darlington Railway had been passed. The 
Liverpool and Manchester Railway was opened in 1830, and the 
line from London to Birmingham was completed in 1838. Betwe en 
those two dates fiftv-six Acts had been already passed for layin g 
1,800 miles of rails . 

The era of raih^'ays had begun. The real innovations lay in the 
application of steam as the motive power to movable engines, 
the construction of new and independent lines of communication, 
the conveyance not only of goods but of passengers. Rail- ways to 
facihtate the transport of heavy w^eights had been in use for nearly 



WOODEN RAIL-WAYS ^ 351 

two centuries. They seem to have been first employed in the New- 
castle district to convey coal from the pits to the shipping stages 
on the Tyne. Wooden rails, laid on continuous parallel lines, were 
pegged down to wooden sleepers, which were set two feet apart, the 
intervals being filled in with stones or ashes. On these tracks, high 
hopper-shaped waggons, set on solid wooden wheels, were either 
propelled by their own weight or drawn by horses. Log ways, 
thus constructed, were called in eighteenth century xA.cts of Parlia- 
ment " dram roads." They were in fact true tram-ways, ^ though 
the word " tram " has been transferred from the material out of 
which the rails were originally constructed to the vehicle which 
passes over them. Successive improvements were made in their 
construction. Thus u'on plates or iron flanges were fixed by 
" plate-layers " to the rails to lessen the friction at the curves or 
to keep the waggons on the track. About 1767 the rails began to 
be made entirely of iron, which were generally cast with an iron 
flange on the inner side. Similarly the wheels were made of cast 
iron, though for some years the rear wheels continued to be made of 
wood in order to strengthen the grip of the brake. In 1788 a still 
more important change was made. The projections of the flanged 
rail were founcTto be dangerous obstructions wherever lines crossed 
highways. To meet this difficulty, flanged wheels were introduced, 
and the rails were made smooth. 

By the latter half of the eighteenth century, there were few 
collieries m the north Avhich were not provided with their oa\ti rafl- 
ways, often carried, in order to secure easy gradients, through hiUs and 
over valleys by means of cuttuigs, bridges, or embankments. They 
were private roads, to which the public had no access. Rail- ways 
laid by Canal Companies under the powers of Acts of ParHament 
were in a different position. Constructed by canal proprietors to 
feed their traffic from potteries, furnaces, coUieries, and quarries, 

1 Whether " tram- way " is derived from the material out of which the road 
is contracted, or from the carriage which passes over it is doubtful. A will 
dated 1555 mentions the repair " of the higheway or tram " in Barnard 
Castle. This use of the word, Hke the " dram-road " of eighteenth century 
Acts of Parhament, suggests the log-way. On the other hand, the road may 
have taken its name from the application of the word " tram " in the North 
of England to a small carriage on four wheels, possibly gaining this meaning 
through the Lowland Scottish use of the word for the " shaft " of a cart. 
In either case, " tram " is Scandinavian in origin ; Norwegian, trani = a 
door-step of wood ; traam = a wooden frame, and Swedish tromm^a log, 
or a summer sledge. See Skeat's Etyynological Dictionary of the English 
Language. 



362 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

they were public highways, maintained, hke turnpike roads, by the 
payments of those who used them. The Canal Companies provided 
no rolling stock. On payment of the stipulated tolls, any trader 
might transport his goods over the flanged rails in his owjl vehicles 
to the wharves. In the development of these lines, which were 
subsidiary to inland waterways, the lead was taken by the valley 
of the Severn, the Western Midlands, and South Wales. The 
utihty of the system was at once apparent. Rail-waj^s multipHed 
rapidly, not as rivals, but as aids, to the canals which they eventually 
destroyed. 

Numerous rail-ways, either in private hands or feeders to canals, 
existed at the end of the eighteenth century. The first pybHc 
indep^dent rail- way was constructed^ by Act of Parliamant uxJSOl. 
The Surrey Iron Rail-way connected Croydon and the mills on the 
Wandle with the Thames at Wandsworth. Originally intended to 
run to Portsmouth, it was never carried beyond Merstham. Nearly 
twenty years later an Act of ParHament (1821) was obtained for 
the construction of the Stockton and Darlington Rail-way. On 
this hne all the stages in the transformation of the ancient rail-way 
into the modern type were exemplified. Hitherto speed had not 
been regarded as an object. Horses were generally employed, and, 
where steam had been introduced as the motive power, its use had 
been practical^ confined to stationary engines, placed at the top of 
inclines, which by means of ropes or chains drew waggons up the 
ascent and regulated the pace of their descent. In poetry, Erasmus 
Darwin ^ had anticipated the coming triumph of steam : 

" Soon shall thy arm, unconqiiered Steam ! afar 
Drag the slow barge, or drive the rapid car ; 
Or on wide-waving Wings expanded bear 
The flying chariot thro' the fields of air ! " 

But in 1820 the vision of the " rapid car," drawn by steam, stiU 
seemed as extravagant as the dream of the " flying chariot " appeared 
to a later generation familiar with fast trains. The projectors of 
the Stockton and Darlington Railway hesitated between wooden or 
iron rails, between animal or steam power, between stationary or 
movable engines. When the liije was opened in 1825, the waggons, 
under the advice of George Stephenson, were drawn over iron rails 
at an average pace of five rtiiTes an hour by steam locomotives, 
designed on the model of the engines which he had successfully 

1 The Botanic Garden, Part I. 289. 



TRIUMPH OF MODERN RAILWAYS 353 

introduced at KiUingworth Colliery. Goods traffic only was at 
first undertaken by the railway company. The conveyance of 
passengers was left to private entraprise ; coaches drawn by one 
horse ran over the rails, on payment of stipulated tolls, at intervals 
when the goods trains were not running. It was not till 183^ that 
the Companybought out the coach proprietors, and, a year later, 
issued notices that they proposed to provide not only carriages for 
goods, but " coaches " for the conveyance of passengers, drawn by 
steam locomotives. 

Before this final stage was reached in the County of Durham, 
the Liverpool and Manchester Railway had been opened (1830). 
The project of the proposed fine originated in dissatisfaction with 
the cost and delay of canaH;ransport. It was directly designed not 
to feed but to rival the water way, and to break down a monopoly 
in the carriage of heavy goods. Canal comjDanies aU over the country 
became ahve toTEeir danger. So strong was the opposition that 
the first BiU was defeated. A second Bill was introduced, and passed 
in 1826. Like the Stockton and Darhngton Company, the projectors 
hesitated over the choice of motive power. They were still undecided 
when the new Kne was approaching completion. To solve the 
problem they offered a premium of £500 for the best locomotive 
engine which should satisfy certain conditions. It was not to exceed 
£550 in price and six tons in weight ; it was also to draw three 
times its own weight, at a speed of ten miles an hour on level ground, 
The famous RainhiU trial (October 8, 1829), when Stephenson's 
Rocket won the prize, sealed the fate of canals and inaugurated the 
triumph of railways. Without their aid the modern organisation 
of industry would have been impossible. The fac tory, the modem 
farm, and the railway went hand in hand in development, and were 
not dissimilar in their economic results. 

With the ground thus prepared for a new start, but in gloom and 
depression, agriculturists entered on the new reign. In comparing 
agriculture in 1837 with that of 1912, the most striking feature is 
the general level of excellence which now pre_vails. If we leave on 
one side the achievements of chemical science and the triumphs of 
mechanical invention, there are few improvements in the methods 
and practices of agriculture which had not been anticipated by 
individuals seventy years ago. But the knowledge which was then, 
at the most, confined to one or two men in a county is now generally 
practised. The best farmers of that day could not have explained 



364 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

the reasons for their methods ; they farmed by experience and in- 
tuition. Judgment is still all-important ; but practice has now been 
reduced to principles and rules, which make the best methods 
more nearly commion property, or at least place them within reach 
of all. The best arable farms in 1837 were cropped much as they 
are now, except that rotations were more rigid and inelastic. Pedigree 
barleys and pedigree wheats were already experimented upon by 
Patrick Shirreff, Dr. ChevalHer, and Colonel Le Couteur. By the 
most enterprising of our predecessors all the kinds of farm produce 
which are raised to-day were raised seventy years ago. 

Li^ e-stoc k has doubtless immensely improved since the accession 
of Queen Victoria. Speciahsation did a^^ay with " general utihty " 
animals, and successfully developed symmetry, quality, early 
ma^tugity, or yield of milk among cattle. But the value and im- 
portance of improving breeds had been thoroughly appreciated by 
the best farmers before 1837. Though only one herd-book — Coates's 
Shorthorn Herdbook (1822) — had begun to appear, the followers 
of Bakewell, — such as Charles and Robert CoUing, Thomas Bates, 
of Kirklevington, the Booths, and Sir Charles Knightley with the 
Shorthorns, — Benjamin Tomkins, John Hewer, and the Prices with 
the Herefords, — Francis Quartly, George Turner, William Davy, 
and Thomas Coke of Norfolk with the North Devons, — had already 
brought to a high degree of perfection the breeds with which their 
names are respectively associated. Flockmasters, hke cattle- 
breeders, had recognised the coming changes. Before 1837 BakeweU's 
methods had been extensively imitated. The Lincolns, the Border 
Leicesters of the Culleys, the Southdowais of EUman of Glynde and 
Jonas Webb of Babraham, the Black-faced Heath breed of David 
Dun, the Cheviots of Robson of Belford were ah-eady firmly estab- 
Hshed ; and some of the best of the local varieties of sheep, enum- 
erated by Sir John Sinclair in his Address to the British Wool 
Society (1791), were beginning to find their champions. Nor 
were pigs unappreciated. The reproach was no longer justified 
which, at the close of the eighteenth century, Arthur Young had 
directed agamst farmers for their neglect of this source of profit. 
Here, again, Bakewell had led the way. Efforts were being made to 
improve such native breeds as the Yorkshire Whites, the Tamworths, 
the reddish-brown Berkshires, or the black breeds of Essex and 
Suffolk. 

O xen w ere still extensively used for farm work. It is therefore 



IMPROVEMENT IN FARM-HORSES^ 355 

not surprising that conrgaratively little attention had been paid to 
horsesjfor agricultural purposes. Yet here^ too, some progress" was 
made, particularly from the point of view of speciahsation. The 
Clydesdales were coming to the front as rivals to old Enghsh breeds. 
Beauty was not the strong point of the " Sorrel-coloured Suffolk 
Punch." Nor was he any longer suited to the pace required in the 
modern hunting-field or on the improved roads. But in 1^37 it 
was reco gnise d that his unriyaUed power of throwing his whole 
weight into the collar fitted him pre-eminently for farm work. 
A similar change was passing over the Cleveland Bay. Thi'eatened 
with extinction by the disappearance of coaches, he was foundjo be 
invaluj^ble on light;jpil farms. So also a definite place was assigned 
to another breed known to the sixteenth century. The " Large 
Black Old Enghsh Cart-horse," which Young calls " the produce 
principally of the Shire counties in the heart of England," was, to 
some extent, experimented upon by Bakewell. But the develop- 
ment of the breed belongs to a later date than the first half of the 
Victorian era, and it is as a draught-horse that the Shire has been, 
since 1879, patronised by Societies and enrolled in stud-books. 

It has been said that while the general standard of farming was 
still extremely low, the best practice of individual farmers in 1837 
has been little improved by the progress of seventy years. Pro- 
duction has been considerably increased ; but the higher averages 
are due to the wider diffusion of the best practices rather than to 
any notable novelties, and it is in hve-stock that real advance is 
most clearly marked. If, however, we turn from the highest practice 
of farming to the general conditions under which it was carried on, 
or to the processes by which crops were cultivated, harvested, 
and marketed, the contrast between 1837 and 1912 is almost 
startling. 

In 1837 the open-field system stiU prevailed extensively. Hold- 
ings were in general inconveniently small, though in some parts of 
the country farms had been consolidated. Farm-buildings, often 
placed at the extreme end of the holding, consisted of large barns 
for storing and threshing com, a st^jble and yard for cart-horses, a 
shed for carts and waggons. But the cattle, worse housed than the 
waggons, were huddled into draughty, rickety sheds, erected without 
plan, ranged round a yard whence the liquid manure, freely diluted 
from the unspouted roofs, ran first into a horse-pond, and thence 
escaped into the nearest ditch. In these sheds the hve-stock sub- 



356 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

sisted during the winter months on starvation allowance. Fat 
cattle, instead of being conveyed by rail quickly and cheaply, were 
driven to distant markets, losing weight every yard of the way. 
Long legs were still a consideration for sheep which had to plough 
through miry lanes. Farm roads were few and bad. Where land 
had been early enclosed, the fields were often small, fenced with 
high and straggling hedges. Very httle land was drained, and, 
except in Suffolk and Essex, scarcely any effort had been made to 
carry off the surface-water from clay soils. 

Little or nojnachinery was employed in any ^operation of tillage. 
In remote parts of the country, even on light soils and for summer 
work, heavy wooden ploughs Avith wooden breasts, slowly drawn 
by teams of five horses or six oxen, attended by troops of men and 
boys, stiU lumbered on their laborious way, following the sinuous 
shape of boundary fences, or throwing up ridges crooked like an 
inverted S, and laid high by successive ploughing towards the crown. 
In more advanced districts, less cumbrous and more effective im- 
plements of fighter draught, wheel or swing, were employed. But 
not a few discoveries of real value fell into disuse, or failed to find 
honour in the land of their birth, tiU they returned to this country 
' with the brand of American innovations. The mistake was too 
often made of exaggerating the universal value of a new implement 
in the style of modern vendors of patent-medicines. Enthusiasts 
forgot that provincial customs were generally founded on common- 
sense, and that farmers reasoned from actual instances which had 
come within their personal experience. The boast that a two-horse 
plough, with reins and one man, could, on aU soils and at all seasons, 
do the work of the heavy implement dear to the locahty only made 
the ancient heu'loom more precious in the eye of its owner. It was 
with antiquated implements, heavy in the draught, that most of 
the soil was still cultiva^ted. Harrows were generally primitive in 
form and ineffective in op eration, scarcely penetrating the ground and 
powerless to stir the weeds. To keep the seed-bed firm against the 
loosening effects of frost the only roller was a stone or the trunk of 
a tree heavily weighted. When the bed was prepared for the crop, 
the seed_was stilTsown broadcast by hand, or, more rarely, either 
dibbed or drilled. The Northumberland drill for turnips, and the 
Suffolk driU for cereals, which travelled every year on hire as far as 
Oxfordshire, had already attained something more than Jocal 
popularity. But corn and ro^ts, even in 1837, were seldom either 



HARVESTING AND MARKETING CR€PS 357 

drilled or dibbed. The advantages of both methods were still hotly 
denied. A man who used a drill would be asked by his neighbours 
when he was going to sow pepper from a pepper-caster. From the 
time the seed was sown and harrowed in, the infant crops waged an 
internecine and unaided strife with weeds. Even the hand-hoe 
rarely helped cereals in the struggle, for the cost was heavy, and the 
work, unless carefully supervised, was easOy scamped. 

In 1837 hand-labour alone gathered the crops. Corn was cut by 
scytheSj fagging hooks, or sickles ; if with the first, each scytheman 
was followed by a gatherer and a binder ; a stooker and raker com- 
pleted the party. When a good man headed the gang, with four 
men to each scytheman, two acres a day per scythe were easily 
completed. Threshed by the flail, the grgin was headed into aJiead 
on thejloor of the_bam. The chaff was blown away by means of 
the draught of wind created by a revolving wheel, with sacks nailed 
to its arms, which was turned by hand. Thus winnowed, the grain 
was shovelled, in small quantities at a time, into a hopper, whence it 
ran, in a thin stream, down a screen or riddle. As the stream 
descended, the smaller seeds were separated and removed. The 
wheat was then piled at one end of the barn, and " thrown " in the 
air with a casting shovel to the other extremity. The heavy grain 
went furthest ; the Hghter, or " tail," dropped short. To some of 
the corn in both heaps the chaff still adhered. These " whiteheads " 
were removed by fanning in a large basket tray, pressed to the body 
of the fanner, who tossed the grain m the air, at the same time lower- 
ing the outer edge of the tray. By this process the whiteheads were 
brought to the top and extremity of the fan, whence they were 
swept by the hand. Lastly the corn was measured, and poured into 
four-bushel sacks, ready for market. The operation of dressing was 
slow. As the sun streamed through a crack in the barn-door, it 
reached the notches which were cut in the wood-work to mark the 
passage of time and the recurrence of the hours for lunch and dinner. 
The operation was expensive as well as slow, costing from six to seven 
shiUings a quarter. Hay was similarly m ade in aU its stages by 
hand, and with a care which preserved its colour and scent. The 
grass, mown by the scythe, fell into swathes. These were broken 
up by the haymakers, drawai with the hand-rake into windrows, 
fii'st single, then double. The double windrows were pulled over 
once, put first into small cocks, then mto larger which were 
topped up and trimmed so as to be shower proof, and finally 



358 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

arranged in cart-rows for pitching and loading. Women, working 
behind the carts, allowed scarcely a blade to escape their rakes. 

The farmer in 1837 had a reaper at his command, but he did not 
value the gift. Its sudden popularity illustrates a point which is 
perpetually recurring in the history of agricultural machinery. As 
soon as the want is created, the machine is not only discovered but 
appreciated. Many attempts were made to perfect a reaper. But 
none met with any real success till machines not only cut the 
com but laid it in sheaves, till fields were enlarged, till thorough 
drainage was adopted, and, as a consequence, the old high-ridging 
system abandoned. It is a sign, and a consequence, of changes 
in farmmg that the Rev. Patrick Bell's reaper, inventedui 1826, was 
noi_realIy^ appreciated till it was manufactured (1853) by Crosskill 
as the " Beverley Reaper." Threshing and wimiowing machines 
were to be found on a few large farms, or travelled the country on 
hire, worked by horse, water, or steam power. For feeding stock, 
chaff-cutters and turnip-slicers were already knowTi ; but they made 
their way slowly into use. Chaff was still generally cut, and turnips 
spHt, by a chopper. If cattle or sheep were unable to bite, they ran 
the risk of being starved. 

No one who studies the agricultiij:fi..QiJl837 can fail to notice the 
per petual cont rast, often in the most glaring form, between the 
practices of adjoining agriculturists. A hundred farmers plodded 
along the Ehzabethan road, while^a sohtary neighbour marched in 
the track of the twentieth century. Discoveries in scientific farm- 
ing, put forward as novelties, were repeatedly found to be in practice 
in one district or another. The gr eat need was the existence of 
som e agency which would r aise th e general level of farming by mating 
the best pra ctice s of the best agriculturists common knowledge. The 
ji problem was not readily solved. To diffuse scientific and practical 
l' information among agriculturists was difficult seventy years ago. 
Books were expensive, and those for whom they were written were 
often unable to read. Few of the agricultural Avorks pubhshed 
before the reign of Victoria were produced by men of practical 
experience. Extravagant promises or incorrect science too often 
discounted the value of useful suggestions. What was really wanted 
was ocul ar de monstration of the superiority of new methods, or the 
exa mple of men of auth ority \\ ho combined scientific with4)ractical 
knowledge. Some of the agricultural societies aheady in existence 
were doing good work in communicating the results of experiments, 



THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY 359 

organising shows, and encouraging discoveries ; others met rather for 
the consumption of meat and drink than for the discussion of their 
production. The Board of Agriculture had estabhshed a strong 
claim to the gratitude of farmers by providing Davy's lectures on 
agricultural chemistry in 1803-13. But its dissolution in 1822 had 
been one of the symptoms of distress. The foundation of the Royal 
Agricultural Society^ of. England, projected in 1837, estabhshed in 
1838, and incorporated by Royal Charter in 1840, with Queen 
Victoria as patron, was at once a sign of revival and a powerful 
agent in restoring prosperity. 

Among the founders of the Society were many of the best-known 
landowners and most practical agriculturists of the day. Their 
association in a common cause carried weight and authority through- 
out the whole country. Their recognition of their territorial duties 
and enthusiasm for the general advancement of agriculture were 
communicated to others, and commanded success by their sincerity. 
The Society met a recognised want in the right way. It proclaimed 
the alliance between practical farmers and men both of capital and 
of science ; it indicated the directions in which agriculture was 
destined to advance. The wise exclusion of pohtics, though for a 
moment it threatened to endanger the existence of the new institu- 
tion, eventually secured it the support of men of every shade of 
pohtical opinion. By the comprehensiveness, elasticity, and fore- 
sight, with which its hnes of development were traced, it has been 
enabled to meet the varying needs of seventy years of change. It 
has encouraged practical farming on scientific principles ; it has also 
encouraged. agricultural science to proceed on practical Hnes. It has 
by premiums and pecuniary aid promoted discovery and invention ; 
by its shows it has fostered competition, stimulated enterprise, and 
created a standard of the best possible results, methods, processes, 
and materials in British agriculture. Its Journal disseminated the 
latest results of scientific research at home and abroad, as well as 
the last lessons of practical experience. In its pages will be found 
the truest picture of the history of farmmg in the reign of Queen 
Victoria. Startmg as it did under peculiarly favourable circum- 
stances, and supported by Avriters like Philip Pusey and Chandos 
Wren-Hoskyns, it commanded the pens of masters in the lost art of 
agricultural literature — men who wrote with the knowledge of 
specialists and with the forcible simplicity of practical men of the 
world. Without exaggeration it may be said that the genera l 



360 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

standard of excellence to which farming has attained throughout 
the kingdom has been to a considerable extent the work of the Royal 
Agricultural Society. For more than seventy years it has been the 
heart and brain of agriculture. The local associations which now 
compete with it in popularity are in great measure its own creations, 
and it can contemplate with pride, unmixed with envy, the sturdy 
growth of its own children. 

From 1840 to IQOl, Queen Victoria was the patron, and to Her 
Majesty's patfonage^ the Society owed much of its prestige and con- 
sequent utihty. It has been said that " agriculture " is " the pursuit 
of kings " ; yet the feeling certainly had existed that farmmg was 
beneath the dignity of gentry. Fortunately for British farming, 
landlords have had a truer perception of their territorial duties as 
weU as of their pecuniary interests. In taking the lead they have 
made a vast outlay of private capital. Windsor, Osborne, Balmoral, 
Sandringham, and the home-farms of large landowners have set 
the fashion, and afforded the model, to hosts of agriculturists. They 
have helped not only to raise the standard of British farming, but 
also to make a costly industry a fashionable yet earnest pursuit. 
A detailed history, for instance, of the Windsor farms would epito- 
mise the history of agricultural progress in the nineteenth century. 
Roads were laid out. Liebig's discovery that warmth is a saving of 
food was acted upon, and substantial buildings were erected, designed 
to economise the expense and labour of cattle-feeding, and at the 
same time to preserve manure from waste or impoverishment. 
Skilfully selected herds of pure-bred Shorthorns, Herefords, and 
Devons were formed ; quantities of food were purchased ; the soil 
was dramed on scientific principles ; the arable land, for the most 
part a stiff clay, was amehorated and enriched by high farming ; 
the latest inventions in implements or machinery were tested and 
adopted ; the grass-lands were improved by experiment and careful 
management ; a model dairy, designed to meet the exacting require- 
ments of modern sanitation and convenience, was erected ; and, to 
supply the milk, a pure-bred herd of Jersey cattle was formed which 
soon became one of the most celebrated in the country. 

The work which the Royal Agricultural Society was estabhshed 
to do was not done by it alone. Other societies, as well as associa- 
tions and farmers' clubs, assisted in spreading scientific and practical 
knowledge of farming. Among many other useful writers on the 
subject the Rev. W. L. Rham, Youatt, James Johnston, Henry 



ALLIANCE OF SCIENCE WITH PRACTICE 361 

Stephens, Dr. Lindley, and John Chahners Morton, as Editor of 
the Agricultural Gazette did excellent service. The school-master 
was abroad, and the foundation of Cirencester Agricultural College 
in 1845 was a sign of the times. The need for agricultural 
statistics, which had long been severely felt, had been emphasised by 
Sir dames (then Mr.) Cakd in 1850-1. But it was not till 1866_that 
the wa nt wa s supphed. Attempts had been frequently made to 
obtain statistical information, but without success. Fear of 
increased taxation closed the mouths of landowners and farmers. 
In 1855 a House of Lords Committee recommended the compulsory 
collection of statistics through the agency of the Poor-Law officials. 
Eleven years later (1866) the Agri cultu ralReturns of Great Britain 
for the fi rst time supphed an accurate account of the acreage, the 
cropping, and the hve-stock of the country. 

The new^alHance of science with jDractice bore rich and immediate 
fruit. Science helped practical farming in ways as varied as they 
were uinumerable. Chemists, geologists, physiologists, entomolo- 
gists, botanists, zoologists, veterinaries, bacteriologists, architects, 
mechanics, engineers, surveyors, statisticians, lessened the risks and 
multiphed the resources of the farmer. Steam and machinery 
diminished his toil and reduced his expenses. His laud was neither 
left idle nor its fertihty exhausted. Improved implements rendered 
his labour cheaper, quicker, surer, and more effective. New means 
of transport and mcreased facihties of communication brought new 
markets to his door. Commodious and convenient buildings re- 
placed tumble-doAvii barns and draughty sheds. Veterinary skill 
saved the lives of valuable animals. The general level of agriculture 
rose^ rapidly: to^^rds that which^ only model farms had attained in 
the preyipusjDeriod. Sound roads, weU-j^^angedhoiaesteads, heavj'" 
crops, weU--b red stoc k, skiUgdTafniers, and high farming chaiacter- 
ised the era which ad opte d t^he Royal Agricultural Society's rule of 
Practice wdth Science. Cut off from their old resource of increasing 
production by adding to the cultivated area, deprived of the aid of 
Protection, agriculturists were compelled to adopt imj)roved methods. 
The age of farmmg by extension of area had ended ; that of 
fanvmg by intension of capital had J^egun. 

To trace out in full detail one single point in which science has 
helped farmers would be the work of a separate volume. Selection 
and outhne are all that is possible. Probably the most strildng con- 
tributions which, during the period under review, were made to the 



362 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

progress of agriculture are the extension of drainage, the discovery 
of artificial manures, the increased purchase of feeding_stuffs for 
cattle, the improvement of implements, the readier acceptance of new 
ideas and inventions. Such an advance was impossible in the days 
of pack- waggons. By the railways aU that farmers had to seU or 
wanted to buy, — com and cattle, coal, implements, machinery, 
manures, oil-cake, letters and newspapers, as well as the men them- 
selves, — were conveyed to and fro more exiaeditiously and_more 
cheaply. 

Drainage was the cr3dng need of the day both for pasture and 
arable land. If the land was heavy and undrained pasture, the 
moisture-loving plants overpowered the more nutritive herbage ; 
the over-wetness became in rainy seasons a danger to the stock ; 
the early and late growth of grass was checked ; the effect of autumn 
and spring frosts was more severely felt. If stiff, retentive, un- 
drained land was under the plough, it was cultivated at greater cost, 
on fewer days in the year, during a season shorter at both ends, 
than hghter soils ; unless the seasons were favourable, it produced 
late and scanty harvests of com and beans, was often unsafe for 
stock, could bear the introduction neither of roots nor of green- 
cropping, repeatedly needed bare fallows, wasted much of the 
benefit of manures and feeding stuff. For many years clay-farmers 
had been seeking for some expedient Avhich would remedy the over- 
wetness of their land, and enable them to share in the profits that 
new resources had placed within reach of their neighbours on freer 
and more porous soils. It was upon them that the blow of agri- 
cultural depression from 1813 to 1836 had fallen Avith the greatest 
severity. Clay farms had faUen into inferior hands, partly because 
men of capital preferred mixed or grazing farms. Weaker tenants 
were thus driven on to the heavier land, on which they could not 
afford the outlay needed to make their holdings profitable. Yet 
their strong land, if seasons proved favourable, was still capable 
of yielding the heaviest crops. Some process was needed which 
would so change the texture of the soil as to render it more friable, 
easier to work, more penetrable to the rain, more accessible to air 
and manure, and therefore warmer and kindlier for the growth of 
plant Hfe. 

The usual expedient for carrjang off the water from heavy soils 
was the open-field practice of throwing the land into high ridges, 
whence the rain flowed into intervening furrows, which acted as 



ANCIENT METHODS OF DRAINAaE 363 

surface-drains. But this device not only stripped the land of some 
of its most valuable portions by washing the surface tilth into the 
furrows, it also robbed the soil of the fertihsing agencies which 
rain-water holds in solution and by percolation carries downwards 
to the plants. For both these reasons the ancient practice of such 
counties as Essex and Suffolk was a great advance. In those 
counties trenches were cut from 2 ft. to 2| ft. in depth at frequent 
intervals, filling the bottom of the cavity with boughs of thorn, 
heath, or alder, and the soil replaced. Sometimes, where peat or 
stones were easily available, they were used instead of bushes. 
Sometimes the filling was only intended to support the soil until a 
natural arch was consolidated to form a waterway. For this more 
temporary purpose, twisted ropes of straw or hops, or a wooden plug, 
which was afterwards drawn out, were generally employed. In 
other counties, other materials or devices were adopted. Thus in 
Leicestershire, a V-shaped sod was cut, the bottom end taken off, 
and the rest replaced. In Hertfordshire, at the lowest part of the 
field, a pit was sunk into a more porous stratum, filled up with stones, 
and covered in with earth. Many of the Suffolk and Essex drains 
lasted a considerable time ; but the arched waterways were apt to 
choke or fall in, and the depth at which they were placed was 
considered unsuitable for land under the plough. So httle was the 
practice known outside these two counties that in 1841 its existence 
was a revelation to so enlightened an agriculturist as Phihp Pusey. 
In tapping springs, caused by water meeting an impervious subsoil 
and rising to the surface, most useful work had been done by Joseph 
Elkington,! a Warwickshire farmer in the latter hah of the eighteenth 
century. Throughout the Midland 'counties his services were in 
such request that his crow-bar was compared to the rod of Moses. 
In 1797 he had received £1,000 from ParUament on the recommenda- 
tion of the Board of Agriculture, and an attempt was made to reduce 
his practice to rules. But his success was so much the result of his 
personal observation and experience that the attempt failed. The 
principles of drainage \^'ere not yet understood. 

In 1823 James Smith of Deanston, then a man of 34, began to 
cultivate the small farm attached to the Deanston Cotton Works 
of which he was manager. By his system of drainage and deep 

1 An Account of the most approved Mode of Draining Land according to 
the System practised by Mr. Joseph Elkington, by John Johnstone, Land Sur- 
veyor, Edinburgh, 1797. 



364 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

ploughing he converted a rush-grown marsh into a garden. His 
drains were trenches 2| ft. deep, filled with stones and covered over, 
cut in parallel Hnes from 16 to 21 ft. apart. Agriculturists flocked 
to Perthshire to see with their own eyes the transformation and its 
causes. Smith's Remarks on Thorough Draining and Deep Ploughing 
(1831) were widely read, and in 1834 he was examined as a witness 
by the Committee which was then enquiring into the condition of 
agriculture. The value of his experience was recognised ; enquiry 
and discussion were excited. In 1 843 Josia h Parkes, profiting by 
the knowledge which he had acquired in draining Chat Moss, laid 
down his principles of drainage. Thinking that Smith's trenches 
were too shallow, he adv ocated a depth of four feet, which would 
givQ__a^ufficient^ layer jof warm mellow^ surface earth. On these 
principles millions of acres were drained, and thousands of pounds 
wasted where drains were laid too deep. The necessary imi^lements 
were quickly perfected. But for some little time a cheap conduit 
remaj iied a d ifficulty. Stones were not everywhere available, and, 
if carted and broken, their use was expensive. In 1843 John Reade,^ 
a gardener by trade and a self-taught mechanic, produced a cylin- 
drica]_clay-pipe. Two years later (1845) Thomas Scragg patented 
a pipe-making machine which enabled the kilns to work cheaply 
and expeditiously. The capital and the soil of the country became 
acquainted on an extensive scale. Within the next few years, two 
large pubHc loans for drainage, repaid by annual instalments, were 
taken up, and treble the amount was spent by private owners or 
advanced by private companies. Drainage became the_ popular 
impr ovem ent by which lanc ^lords endeavoured to encourage tenants 
who were dismayed by the repeal ol the Corn Laws. It gaye^clay 
far mers longer seasons and added to the number of the days on 
which they could work their land ; it increased the ease of their 
operations and the efficacy of their manures ; it secured an earher 
seedtime and an earher harvest, raised the average produce, and 
lowered the cost of w^orking ; it enabled the occupiers of hundreds 
of thousands of acres to profit by past as weW as future discoveries. 
D rainage was a neces.siary preliminary to profitable manuring. On 
undrained land farmers could not use to full advantage the new 

^ In the Weekly Miscellany for the Improvement of Husbandry, etc., for 
August 22, 1727, Stephen Switzer had recommended the use of pipes made 
of " potter's clay " for the conveyance of water, and advertised that the pipes 
were made by pipe-making machines which enabled the kilns to work cheaply 
and expeditiously. 



THE CHOICE OF MANURES ^ 365 

means of wealth which agricultural chemistry was placing at their 
command. But while drainage, in the main, helped only one class 
of farmers, the benefits of manure were universal. The practice 
of manuring is of immemorial antiquity. But it w&,s in the extended 
choice of fertihsing substances, in the scientific analysis of their 
composition and values, in their concentration and portabihty, and 
in the greater range of time at which they could be profitably 
appHed that a prodigious advance was made during the Victorian 
era. 

For inland farmers in rural districts the choice of manures was 
practically limited to the ashes of vegetable refuse which represented 
the food drawai by the plant from the soil, " catch-cropping " with 
leguminous crops, folding sheep, and farmyard manure. " Nothing 
Hke muck " had become a proverb when there was practically 
" nothing but muck " to be used. On the same poverty of fertihsing 
resources were founded the severe restrictions against selling hay, 
straw, and roots off farms. In another sense the proverb is true — 
fortunately for the fertihty of the country. Rich both in organic 
and inorganic substances, combining both nitrogen and minerals, 
possessing for the loosening of clay lands a pecuhar value, farmyard 
manuxeJs-ilie-xmlyL substance which contains in itself all the con- 
stit uent elem ents ^ofjertility. Our predecessors thus commanded 
the most valuable of fertihsing agencies, the most certain and the 
least capricious. But in then' open unspouted, unguttered yards, 
in their ignorance of the importance of the hquid elements, and with 
their straw-fed stock, the manure was both wasted and impoverished. 
Nor is it only in the quantity and quahty of dung, or in its collection 
and treatment, that farmers have the advantage to-day. Formerly 
distant fields suffered when no concentrated and portable fertihser 
existed, and, valuable though dung is, its uses are not unhmited. In 
the infancy, moreover, of agricultural science, men had Httle know- 
ledge of the composition of soils, the necessities of plant hfe, or the 
special demand that each crop makes on the land. It is in aU these 
respects that modem resources are multiphed. The supplyjof con- 
centrated portable manures, adaptedby their varied range to all 
conditiQns~arthe"soil, capabie^of restoring those elements ofJertihty 
which each particu lar crop _exhausts, and applicable at different 
stages of plants life, is the greatest achievement of modern agri- 
cultural science. 

It is to the great German chemist Li ebig that modern agriculture 



366 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

owes the origin of its most striking development. In 1840 his 
Chemistry in its applications to Agriculture and Physiology ^ clearly 
trace d the re lations between the rLutrition joLplants^and the com- 
position of the soil. In his mineral theory he was proved to be 
mistaken ; But his book revolutionised the attitude which agri- 
culturists had maintained towards chemistry. So great was the 
enthusiasm of country gentlemen for Liebig and his discoveries, as 
popularised by men Hke Johnston and Voelcker, that the Royal 
Chemical Society of 1845 was in large measure founded by their 
efiforts. But if the new agriculture was born in the laboratory of 
Giessen, it grew into strength at the experimental station of Rotham- 
sted. To Sir John Lawes and his colleague Sir Henry Gilbert 
(himself a pupil of Liebig) farrq ^s of to-day owe an incalculable 
debt. By their experiments, continued for more than half a 
century, the main principles of agricultural science were estabHshed ; 
the objects, method, and effects of manuring were ascertained ; the 
scientific bases for the rotation of crops were explained ; and the 
results of foqcFupon animals in producing meat, milk, or manure 
were tested and defined. On their work has been built the modem 
fabric of BritisTi^aQ-riculture . 

With increased knowledge of the wants of plant or animal life 
came the supply of new means to meet those requirements. Arti- 
ficial manure may be roughly distmguished from dung as purchased 
manures. Of these fertihsing agencies, farmers in 1837 already 
knew soot, bones, salt, saltpetre, hoofs and horns, shoddy, and such 
substances as marl, clay, Hme and chalk. But they knew httle or 
nothing of nitrate of soda, of Peruvian guano, of superphosphates, 
kainit, muriate of potash, rape-dust, sulphate of ammonia, or basic 
slag. Though nitrate of soda was introduced in 1835, and ex- 
perimentally employed in smaU quantities, it was in 1850 stUl a 
novelty. The first cargo of Peruvian guano was consigned to a 
Liverpool merchant in 1835 ; but in 1841 it was still so httle known 
that only 1,700 tons w^ere imported ; six years later (1847) the im- 
portation amounted to 220,000 tons. Bones were beginning to be 
extensively used. Then- import value rose from £14,395 in 1823 to 
£254,600 in 1837. As originally broken in small pieces mth a 
hammer, they were slow in producing their effect ; but the rapidity 

1 Organic Chemistry in its applications to Agriculture and Physiology. By- 
Justus Liebig : edited from the manuscript of the author by Lyon Playfair, 
1840. 



ARTIFICIAL MANURES ^ 367 

of their action was enormously increased by grinding them to a coarse 
meal. Rape-dust was not known in the South of England at the 
beginning of the Victorian era. In 1840 Liebig suggested the treat- 
ment of bones with sulphuric acid, and in 1843 Lawes began the 
manufacture of superphosphate of hme, and set up his works at 
Bow. So far the chemists ; the next step was taken by geologists. 
At the suggestion of Professor Henslow, the same treatment to 
which bones were already subjected was appHed to coprohtes, and 
the rich deposits of Cambridgeshire and other counties, as well as 
kindred forms of mineral phosphates, imported from all parts of 
the world, were similarly " dissolved." Even Peruvian guano was 
subjected to the same treatment. Another important addition to 
the wealth of fertilising agencies was made by Odams, who about 
1850 discovered the manurial value of the blood and garbage of 
London slaughter-houses, mixed with bones and sulphuric acid. 

It is in the means of applying appropriate manures to lands 
which are differently composed, and to crops which vary in their 
sjDecial requirements, that modern farmers enjoy exceptional 
advantages over their predecessors. The active competition of 
rival jnanufacturers assisted the adoption of the new fertilisers. 
Many men, who would not listen to the lectures of professors, or 
read the articles of chemical experts, were worried by persistent 
agents for the sale of patent manures into giving them a trial. 
Indirectly, their use led to clean farming. A farmer who had paid 
£10 a ton for manure was unwiUing to waste hah its value on wet 
ill-drained land. He was less hkely to allow it to fertilise weeds, and 
the more ready to buy a machine to distribute it carefully. Thus, 
as co nsequen ces of purchased fertilisers, followed the extensive use 
of the drain-pipe, the drill, the hand-hoe, and the horse-hoe. Yet 
chemical'science did not at once fulfil the sanguine expectations 
which were formed of its capacity in the early " Fifties." The 
confident hope that the specific fertihty extracted by a crop could 
be restored by a corresponding manure was scarcely confirmed by 
experience ; and many a farmer did himself as much harm as good 
by the appHcation of fertiHsers which were unsuited to his land. 

Manure and drainage acted and reacted upon one another : the one 
encouraged the other. Previous rules of successive cropping were 
revolutionised ; more varied courses were gradually and universally 
introduced. The old exhausting system of two or three crops 
and a bare fallow was abandoned when land had been drained, and 



368 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

fertilisers, portable, cheap and abundant, were placed at the com- 
mand of the farmer. Without manure the attempt to grow roots 
or clover failed ; their introduction only protracted the shift, and 
aggravated the difficulty of inevitable exhaustion. Now, however, 

(» the principle was gradually established that he who put most into 
his land got most out. Farmers recognised by experience, when the 
-J means were at their disposal, that, on the one hand, if they ruined 

■ their land their land ruined them, and that, on the other hand, 
only those who have lathered can shave. It was m readiness to 

' invest_capital_iLLJth£jaii4 that one ^ of the chief d iffeieiiceslDelween 
the earlietJ2ace_of_agricultiirists and the modern type of farmer 
became jnost conspicuous. The main^bject g of the former were to 
feed their Jamihes and avoid every possible outlayjpf cash . Hard- 
living and hard-working, they rarely thought of spending sixpence 
on manure, still less on cattle food to make it. They gave httle to 
the land and received little. The consequent loss in the national 
means of subsistence can scarcel}'^ be exaggerated. Modern farmers, 
on the other hand, not only pnrnhj^/l tVinnsanrls nf tnris of ar tHicial 
fertilisers. They also boughtjor- their live-stock vast q uan tities of 

1 feeding-stuff, which supplemented t heir own pr oduce. Roots, clover, 
beans, barley-meal, hay, chaff, as w^ell as artificial purchased food, 
were supphed to the sheep and cattle, which once had only survived 
the winter as bags of skm and bone. Just as guano from Peru 
was turned into EngHsh corn, or bones from the Pampas into EngHsh 
roots, so the Syrian locust-pod, the Egyptian bean, the Indian com, 
or the Russian linseed Avere converted into EngHsh meat. The 
gain to the nation was immense, and to the farmer it was not smaU, 
The return on his money was quickened. He sold his stock to the 
butcher twice within the same time which was formerly needed to 
prepare them once, and that less perfectly. At the same time his 
command of manure was trebled in quantity and quahty, and on 
clay lands his long-straw muck was of special value. 

The chang^es which have been noticed in modern farming necess i- 
tated more frequent operations of tillage, which, without mechanic al 
inventions would havpi been too costlv to be possible . Here, again, 
science came to the aid of the farmer, and supphed the means of 
making his labour cheaper, quicker, and more certain. The Royal 
Agricultural Society may legitimately pride itself on the useful part 
which it has played in introducing to the notice of agriculturists 
the new appHances which mechanical skill has placed at their service. 



/ AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY ^ 369 

Yet, when the Society was founded, none of its promoters foresaw 
the importance of the mechanical department. At the Oxford show 
in 1839 one gold medal was awarded for a collection of implements ; 
three silver medals were allotted ; and a prize of five pounds was 
given for "a paddle plough for raising potatoes." At the show at 
Gloucester in 1853, 2,000 implements were exhibited. T he modern 
system of farming had, in the interval of fourteen years, built up a 
huge industry employed in providing the agricultural implements 
t hat it rcQuired. 

In tilhng the land, sowing, harvesting, and marketing their crops, 
modern farmers command a choice of effective implements for which 
their predecessors knew no substitute. Between 1837 and 1874, 
ploughs in every variety, light in draught, efficient, adaptable to all 
sorts of soil, were introduced. Harrows suited for different operations 
on different kinds of land, scarifiers, grubbers, cultivators, clod- 
crushers, came into general use. ^^.eam s uppUed its motive power 
to the cultivator (1851-6) and to the plough (1857). As an auxiha ry 
in wet seasons, or in scarcity of labour, or on foul land, or tn ba.p.k- 
wardness of preparation, the aid of steam may be invaluab le. But 
few farmers can afford to own both horse-power and steam-power, 
and without horses they cannot do. The time may, however, be 
near at hand when agriculturists may find it not only invaluable, 
but indispensable, to rely on an arm that never slackens, never tires, 
and never strikes. Corn and seed drills deposited the seed in 
accurate lines, and at that uniform depth which materially promotes 
the uniformity of sample so dear to barley growers. Rollers and 
land-pressers consohdated the seed-bed. Manure drills distributed 
fertilisers unknown to farmers in 1837. Horse-hoes gained in 
popularity by improved steerage gear. Crosskill's Beverley reaper 
was followed within the next twenty years by fighter and more 
convenient machines. Mowing machines, haymakers, horse-rakes, 
shortened the work of the hay-field. Light carts or waggons super- 
seded their heavy, broad-wheeled predecessors. Elevators lessened 
the labour of the harvesters in the yard. Threshing and winnowing 
machines had been invented in the eighteenth century. But in the 
South of England, partly perhaps from the difficulty of supplying 
labourers with winter work, the flail Avas still almost universal for 
threshing. From 1850 jmssiards, however, steam began to be appfied 
as a motive ^ower to^machines, and within the next ten years 
several makers were busily competing in the manufacture of steam- 

2a 



370 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

driven barn-machinery, which threshed the corn, raised the straw 
to the loft, winnowed and dressed the grain, divided it according to 
quality, dehvered it into sacks ready for market, and set aside the 
taihngs for pigs and poultry. Nor did mechanical science neglect 
the hve-stock industry, the development of which, in connection with 
corn-growing, was a feature of the period. Here, too, machinery 
economised the farmer's labour. He already knew the turnip-cutter 
and the chaff-cutter ; but now the same engine which superseded 
the flail, pumped his water, ground his corn, crushed his cake, split 
his beans, cut his chaff, pulped his turnips, steamed and boiled his 
food. Without the aid of mechanical invention farming tq;;^day 
would-be at an absolute standstill. No farmer could find, or if he 
found could pay, the staff of scarce and expensive labour without 
which in 1837 agricultural produce could not be raised, secured, and 
marketed. 

The improvements which have been indicated were not the work 
of a day. On the contrary, during the first few years of the reign — 
the only period passed under Protection — progress was neither 
rapid nor unchecked. Farmers in general were preparing for high 
farming ; they had not yet adopted its practices. Whatever 
advance had been made between 1837 and 1846 was probably lost 
in the five succeeding years. Abundant materials exist for com- 
parison. On the one side are the Reports of the Reporters to the old 
Board of Agriculture (1793-1815) ; and the Reports to the successive 
Commissions (1815-36) ; on the other, there are the Reports 
published in the early numbers of the Journal of the Royal Agri- 
cultural Society, the .evidence given before the Select Committee 
of 1848 on tenant-right and agricultural customs, the letters of Caird 
to The Times in 1850-1, afterwards embodied in his English Agri- 
culture in 1850-1, and the letters of the Commissioner to the Morning 
Chronicle during the same period. It is plain that in 1846 n o 
vunive^sai progress had been_effected ; that many landowners had 
made no effort to increase the productiveness of their land ; that 
high farming; was still the exceptions that the new resource s were 
not yet generally utilised ; an3~that more than half the owners and 
occupiers of the land had made but Httle advance on the ideas and 
practices of the eighteenth century. Another period of disaster, 
short but severe, forced home the necessary lessons, and ushered in 
the t en yea rs, 1853-62, which were the p^olden age of EngUsh agri- 
culture. 



THE BEST SUBSTITUTE FOR PROTECTION 371 

The railway manias and their collapse in 1845-7 had depressed 
every industry. The failure of the potato crop in 1845-6 caused 
appalling famine, and led to the Repeal of the Com Laws. When in 
1846 Protection was abandoned for Free Trade, an agricultural 
panic was the result. Caird's pamphlet on High Farming . . . the 
best Substitute for Protection (1848) pointed out the true remed}\ 
But for the moment he preached in the wilderness. The discovery 
of guano and the abohtion of the Brick and Timber Duties seemed no 
adequate set-off to the anticipated consequences of Free Trade in 
grain. Agriculturists predicted the ruin of their industry, and their 
prophecies seemed justified by falling prices in 1848-50 . Many 
landlords and tenants had been encouraged by Protection to gamble 
in land. Extravagant rents had been fixed, which were not justified 
by increased produce. Caird calculated in 1850 that rentals had 
risen 100 per cent, since 1770, while the yield of wheat per acre had 
only risen 14 per cent. — from 23 to 26f bushels. In 1850 wheat 
stood at the same price which it had realised eighty years before 
(40s. 3d.). On the other hand, butter, meat, and wool had risen 
respectively 100 per "cent., 70 per cent., and 100 per cent. The 
great advance which had been made was, in fact, in hve-stock. 
Competition in farms had been reckless, and the consequences were 
inevitable when prices showed a downward tendency. Here and 
there rents were remitted, but few were reduced. Clay farmers, as 
before, were the worst sufferers ; dairy and stock farmers escaped 
comparatively hghtly. But the loss was widespread. Much land 
was thrown on the hands of landlords, and efforts were made to 
convert a considerable area of arable into pasture. 

From 1853 onwards, however, mattejrarapidly righted themselves, f 
Gold discoveries in Austraha and Cahfomia raised prices ; trade 
and manufacture throve and expanded ; the Free Trade panic 
subsided ; courage was restored. The Crimean War closed the 
Baltic to Russian corn. During the " Sixties," while the Continent 
and America were at war, England enjoyed peace. The seasons 
were uniformly favourable ; harvests, except that of 1860, were good, 
fair, or abundant ; the wheat area of 1854. as estimated by Lawes, 
rose to a little over four milhon acres ; jmports of cp rn. meat, and 
djirv prf ^Hnoft aupplpji^^nf p d. without displacing, home supplies. Even 
the removal of the shilHng duty on corn in 1869 produced Httle effect. 
Counteracted as it was by the demand for grain from France in 
1870-71, it failed to help foreign growers to force down the price of 



372 HIGH FARMING, 1837-1874 

British com. Wool maintained an extraordinarily high price. 
Lincoln wool, for instance, rose from 13d. per lb. in 1851 to 27d. 
in 1864. Even when corn began to decline in value, meat and dairy 
produce maintained their price, or even advanced. Money was 
poured into land as the best investment for capital. Men hke Mechi 
of Tiptree Hall, who had made fortunes in trade, competed for farms, 
and became enthusiastic exponents of their theories of scientific 
agriculture. Rentals rose rapidly ; yet still farmers made money. 
Holdings were enlarged and consohdated ; farmhouses became 
labourers' cottages ; a brisk trade was carried on in machinery. 
High hopes were entertained of steam. Enormous and, as has since 
been proved, excessive sums were spent on farm buildings. Drainage 
was carried out extensively, and it was now that the general level 
of farming rose rapidly towards the best standard of individual 
farmers in 1837. Crops reached limits which production has never 
since exceeded, and probably, so far as anything certain can be 
predicted of the unknown, never will exceed. 

During the period from 1853 to 1874 little attention was in 
England paid to improvements in dairjdng. But in live-stock 
progress was great and continuous. The advance was the liiore 
remarkable as it was made^iirthe face of outbreaks of the rinderpest, 
pleuro-pneumonia, and foot-and-mouth diseases. Foot-and-mouth 
disease had been more or less prevalent since 1839, and pleuro- 
pneumonia since 1840. But the scourge of rinderpest in 1865, 
commonly called the cattle -plague, compelled energetic action.^ 
In stamping out the pest the two other diseases were nearly ex- 
tinguished, so that good results flowed from a disaster which caused 
widespread ruin. The multipUcation of shows encouraged com- 
petition ; stock-breeding became a fashion, and " pedigree " a 
mania among men of wealth. 

It was in cattle and sheep that the improvement was most clearly 
marked, though neither Horses nor pigs were neglected. Not only 
did Shorthorns, Herefords, and Devons attain the highest standard 

1 In the week ended Feb. 24, 1866, 17,875 cattle were returned as infected 
by the disease. The Cattle Diseases Prevention Act, dated Feb. 20, 1866, 
made the slaughter of diseased animals compulsory. The el5ect was seen at 
once. In the week ending March 3, 1866, 10,971 cattle were attacked, and 
in the week ending March 10, 10,056 were killed. At the end of April the 
weekly tables showed 4,442 attacked ; towards the end of May, 1,687 ; in 
the last week of June, 338. In the last week of the year the number had 
dwindled to 8. Appendix I. to Report on Cattle Plague during the years 1865, 
1866, 1867 (Parliamentary Paper of 1868, Cd. 4060), p. 4. 



PEDIGREE CATTLE ^ 373 

of excellence in symmetry, and quality, but other breeds, now almost 
as well-known, were rapidly brought to perfection. Especially is 
this true of the Aberdeen-Angus, the Sussex, Ayrshire, and Channel 
Island breeds. 1 Other breeds were similarly improved by societies 
and the compilation of herd-books. Thus the Black cattle of South 
Wales and the Norfolk and Suffolk Red Polled breed have had their 
herd-books since 1874. In sheep the improvement was, perhaps, 
even more striking. The historic Leicesters, Cotswolds, and South- 
downs still held their own, but other breeds made rapid strides in 
the popular favour. The improved Lincolns, the Oxford Downs, 
Hampshire Do^vns, and Shropshires are almost creations of the 
period. Between 1866 and 1874 the number of cattle in Great 
Britain rose from under five milhons to over six milhons, and sheep 
had increased to over thirty milhons in 1874. Nor was there only 
an increase in numbers. The average quahty was greatly improved, 
and good^sheep and cattle were widely distributed. ~ 

^The Shorthorn Society was founded in 1875: the Hereford Herd-book 
appeared in 1846, and the Hereford Herd-book Society was incorporated in 
1878: the Devon Herd-book appeared in 1851. The first volume of the 
Aberdeen-Angus Polled Herd-book was issued in 1862, and the second in 
1872: the Sussex Herd-book Society pubhshed its first volume (1855-78) in 
1879; the Ayrshire Herd-book Society was established in 1877 and published 
its first volume in 1878 ; the English Herd-book of Jersey Cattle was first 
issued in 1879, and the English Jersey Cattle Society was incorporated in 
1883. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

ADVERSITY. 1874-1912. 

Since 1862 the tide of agricultural prosperity had ceased to flow ; 
after 1874 it turned, and rapidly ebbed. A period of depression 
began which, with some fluctuations in severity, continued through- 
out the rest of the reign of Queen Victoria, and beyond. 

Degression is a word which is often loosely used. It is generally 
understood to mean a redufition, in some cases an absence, of profit, 
accompanied by a consequent diminution of employment. To some 
extent the condition has probably become chronic. A decline of 
interest on capital lent or invested, a rise in wages of labour, an 
increased competition for the earnings of management, caused by 
the spread of education and resulting in the reduction or stationary 
character of those earnings, are permanent not temporary tendencies 
of civihsation. So far as these symptoms indicate a more general 
distribution of wealth, they are not disquieting. But, from time 
to time, circumstances combine to produce acute conditions of 
industrial collapse which may be accurately called depression. 
Such a crisis occurred in agriculture from 1875 to 1884, and again 
from 1891 to 1899. 

Industrial undertakings are so inextricably interlaced that agri- 
cultural depiession cannot be entirely dissevered from commercial 
depression. Exceptional periods of commercial diflficulty had for 
the last seventy years recurred uith such regularity as to give 
support to a theory of decennial cycles. ^ In previous years, each 
recurring period had resulted in a genuine panic, due as much to 
defective information as to any real scarcity of loanable capital. 
The historic failure of Overend and Gurney in 1866 and the famous 
" Black Friday " afford the last example of this acute form of 
crisis. Better means of obtaining accurate intelligence, more 

^E.g. 1825-6, 1836-7, 1847, 1857, 1866, 1877-8. 



INFLATED PRICES AND RENTS. 375 

accessible supplies of capital, the greater stability of the Bank of 
England have combined with other causes to minimise the risk of 
financial stampedes. But, though periods of depression cease to 
produce the old-fashioned panic, they are not less exhausting. 
Their approach is more gradual ; so also is the recovery. Disaster 
and revival are no longer concentrated in a few months. Years 
pass before improvement is apparent ; the magnitude of the dis- 
tress is concealed by its diffusion over a longer period. The agri- 
cultural depressions of 1875-84 and of 1891-99 had all the 
characteristics of the modern type of financial crisis. 

In 1870 had begun an infliction of prices. The outbreak of the 
Franco-German War and the withdrawal of France and Germany 
from commercial competition enabled England to increase her 
exports ; the opening of the Suez Canal (1869) stimulated the ship- 
building trade ; the railway development in Germany and America 
created an exceptional demand for coal and iron. Expanding 
trade increased the consuming power of the population, and main- 
tained the prices of agricultural produce. The wisest or wealthiest 
landowners refused the temptation to advance rents on sitting 
tenants. But in many cases rents were raised, or farms were 
tendered for competition. Farmers became infected with the same 
spirit of gambling which in trade caused the scramble for the 
investment of money in hazardous enterprises. In their eagerness 
for land they were led into reckless biddings, which raised rentals 
beyond reasonable limits. In 1874 the reaction began. Demand 
had returned to normal limits ; but the abnormal supply continued. 
Over-production was the result. The decline of the coal and iron 
trade, the stoppage, partial or absolute, of cotton mills, disputes 
between masters and men, comphcations arising out of the Eastern 
question, the default on the Turkish debt, disturbances of prices 
owing to fluctuations in the purchasing power of gold and silver, 
combined to depress every industry. In 1878 the extent to which 
trade had been undermined was revealed by the failure of the 
Glasgow, Caledonian, and West of England Banks. . One remarkable 
feature of the crisis was that it was not local but universaj. New 
means of communication had so broken down the barriers of nations 
that the civilised world suffered together. Everywhere jprices fell, 
trade shrank, insolvencies multiphed. In the United States the 
indirect consequences of the industrial collapse of 1873-4 proved to 
be of disastrous importance to Enghsh farming. A railway panic, 



376 ADVERSITY, 1874-1912 

a fall in the price of manufactured articles, a decline in wages drove 
thousands out of the towns to settle as agriculturists on the virgin 
soils of the West. 

EngHsh farming sufiFered from the same causes as every other 
home industry. In addition, it had its own special difficulties. 
The collapse of British trade checked the growth of the consuming 
power at home at the same time that a series of inclement seasons, 
followed by an overwhelmiag increase of foreign competition, 
paralysed the efforts of farmers. For three years in succession, 
bleak springs and rainy summers produced short cereal crops of 
inferior quahty, mildew in wheat, mould in hops, bhght in other 
crops, disease in cattle, rot in sheep, throwing heavy lands into foul 
condition, deteriorating the finer grasses of pastures. In 1875-6 
the increasing volume of imports ^ prevented prices from rising to 
compensate deficiencies in the yield of corn. The telegraph, steam 
carriage by sea and land, and low freights, consequent on declining 
trade, annihilated time and distance, destroyed the natural monopoly 
of proximity, and enabled the world to compete \vith English pro- 
ducers in the home markets on equal, if not more favourable, terms. 
Instead of there being one harvest every year, there was now a 
harvest in every month of each year. In 1877 prices advanced, 
owing to the progress of the Russo-Turkish War. But the potato 
crops failed, and a renewed outbreak of the cattle-plague, though 
speedily suppressed, hit stockowners hard. The tithe rent-charge 
was nearly £12 above its par value. Rates were rising rapidly. 
Land-agents began to complain of the scarcity of eligible tenants 
for vacant corn-land. During the sunless ungeuial summer of 
^ 1879, with its icy rains, the series of adverse seasons culminated in 
one of the worst harvests of the century, in an outbreak of pleuro- 
pneumonia and foot-and-mouth disease among cattle, and among 
sheep a disastrous attack of the hver rot, which inflicted an enormous 
loss on flockmasters. The Enghsh wheat crop scarcely averaged 
15J bushels to the acre. In similar circumstances, farmers might 
have been compensated for the shortness of yield by an advance in 
price. This was no longer the case in 1879. America, which had 
enjoyed abundant harvests, poured such quantities of wheat into 
the country as to bring down prices below the level of the favourable 
season of the preceding year. At the same time, American cheese 
so glutted the market as to create a record for cheapness. Thus, 
* For the growth of foreign imports of food, see Appendix VIII. 



FOREIGN COMPETITION ^ 377 

at ^e moment when English farmers were akeady enfeebled^ by 
theuQoss gF_capital, they were met_by a staggering blow from 
foreign competition. They were fighting against low prices as well 
as adverse Masons. 

English farmers were, in fact, confronted with a new problem. 
How were they to hold their own in a treacherous climate on highly 
rented land, whose fertility required constant renewal, against 
produce raised under more genial skies on cheaply rented soils, 
whose virgin richness needed no fertihsers ? To a generation 
famihar with years of a prosperity which had enabled EngUsh 
farmers to extract more from the soil than any of their foreign 
rivals, the changed conditions were unintelligible. The new position 
was at first less readily understood, because the depression was 
mainly attributed to the accident of adverse seasons, and because 
the grazing and dair5dng districts had as yet escaped. Thousands 
of tenants on corn -growing lands were unable to pay their rents. 
In many instances they were kept afloat by the help of wealthy 
landlords. But every landowner is not a Dives ; the majority sit 
at the rich man's gate. In most cases there was no reduction of 
rents. Remissions, sometimes generous, sometimes inadequate, 
were made and renewed from time to time. Where the extreme 
urgency of the case was imperfectly reahsed, many old tenants 
were ruined. It was not till farms were relet that the necessary 
reductions were made, and then the men who profited were new 
occupiers. 

If any doubt still existed as to the reahty of the depression, 
especially in corn-growing districts, it was removed by the evidence 
laid before the Duke of Richmond's Commission, which sat from 
1879 to 1882. The Report of the Commission.estabHshed, beyond 
possibility of question, the existence of severe and -acuta -distress, 
and attributed its prevalence, primarily to inclement seasons, 
secondarily to foreign competition. It was generally reahsed that 
the shrinkage in the margin~'of profit on the staple produce of 
agriculture was a more or less permanent condition, and that rents 
must be readjusted. Large reductions were made between 1880 
and 1884, and it was calculated that in England and Wales alone 
the annual letting value of agricultural land was thus decreased by 
5| miUions. Yet in many cases the rent nominally remained at 
the old figure. Only remissions were granted, which were uncertain 
in amount, and therefore disheartening in effect. According to 



378 ADVERSITY, 1874-1912 

Sir James Caird's evidence given in 1886, before the Royal Com- 
mission on Depression of Trade, the yearly income of landlords, 
tenants, and labourers had diminished since 1876 by £42,800,000. 

The worst was by no means over. On the contrary, the pressure 
of foreign competition gradually extended to other branches of 
agriculture. The momentum of a great industry in any given direc- 
tion carmot be arrested in a day ; still less can it be diverted towards 
another goal without a considerable expenditure of time and money. 
Unreasonable complaints were made against the obstinate con- 
servatism of agriculturists, because they were unable to effect a 
costly change of front as easily as a man turns in his bed. The 
aims and methods of farming were gradually adapted to meet 
the changed conditions. As wheat, barley, and oats dechned 
towards the lowest prices of the century, increased attention was 
paid to grazing, dairying, and such minor products as vegetables, 
fruit, and poultry. The com area of England and Wales shrank 
from 8,244,392 acres in 1871 to 5,886,052 acres in 1901.1 Between 
the same years the area of permanent pasture increased from 
11,367,298 acres to 15,399,025 acres. Yet before the change was 
complete farmers once more found themselves checkmated. The 
old adage " Doa^ti horn, up corn " had once held true. Now both 
were down together. Till 1885 the prices of fat cattle had been 
well maintained, and those of shee^D till 1890. Both were now 
beginning to decline before the pressure of foreign competition. 
Up till 1877 both cattle and sheep had been chiefly sent in ahve 
from European countries. Now, America and Canada joined in 
the trade, and the importation of dead meat rapidly increased. 
Consignments were no longer confined to beef and pigs' meat. 
New Zealand and the Repubhc of Argentina entered the hsts. The 
imports of mutton, which in 1882 did not exceed 181,000 cwts., and 
chiefly consisted of meat boiled and tinned, rose in 1899 to 3| miUion 
cwts. of frozen carcases. The importation of cheese rose by more 
than a third ; that of butter was doubled ; that of wool increased 
more than two-fold. Meanwhile the outgoings of the farmer were 
steadily mounting upwards. Machinery cost more ; labour rose in 
price and deteriorated in e£Sciency. The expenses of production 
rose as the profits fell. 

Some attempt was made by ParHament to relieve the industry. 
The recommendations of the Richmond Commission were gradually 

* For statistics of agriculture, see Appendix IX. 



PROLONGED DEPRESSION ^ 379 

carried into effect. Gra nts we re made in aid of local taxation. 
Measures were adopted to stamp out disease amongst live-stock, 
and to protect farmers against the adulteration of feeding-stuflfs, 
and against the sale of spurious butter and cheese. The primary 
ha])ility_fQ2Liithe_rent:charge was transferred from occupiers to 
owners (1891). The law affecting limited estates in land was 
modified by the Settled Lands Act (1882). A Railway and Canal 
Traffic Act was passed, which attempted to equahse rates on the 
carriage of home and foreign produce. The permissive Agri- 
cultural Holdings Act of 1875, which was not incorrectly described 
as a " homily to landlords " on the subject of unexhausted improve- 
ments, was superseded by a more stringent measure and a 
modification of the law of distress (1883). A Minister of Agriculture 
was appointed (1889), and an Agricultural Department estabhshed. 
But the legislature was powerless to provide any substantial help. 
Food was, so to speak, the currency in which foreign nations paid 
for Enghsh manufactured goods, and its cheapness was an undoubted 
blessing to the wage-earning community. Thrown on their own 
resources, agriculturists fought the unequal contest with courage 
and tenacity. But, as time went on, the stress told more and more 
heavily. Manufacturing populations seemed to seek food-markets 
everywhere except at home. Enterprise gradually weakened ; 
landlords lost their abihty to help, farmers their recuperative power. 
Prolonged dej)ression checked costly improvements. Drainage was 
practically discontinued. Both owners and occupiers were engaged 
in the task of making both ends meet on vanishing incomes. Land 
deteriorated in condition ; less labour was employed ; less stock 
was kept ; bills for cake and fertilisers were reduced. The counties 
which suffered most were the corn-growing districts, in which high 
farming had won its most signal triumphs. On the heavy clays of 
Essex, for example, thousands of acres, which had formerly yielded 
great crops and paid high rents, had passed out of cultivation into 
ranches for cattle or temporary sheep-runs. On the light soils of 
Norfolk, where skiU and capital had wrested large profits from the 
reluctant hand of Nature, there were widespread ruin and bankruptcy. 
Throughout the Eastern, Midland, and Southern counties, — 
wherever the land was so heavy or so fight that its cultivation was 
naturally unremunerative, — the same conditions prevailed. The 
West on the whole, suffered less severely. Though milk and butter 
had fallen in price, dairy-farmers were profiting by the cheapness of 



380 ADVERSITY, 1874-1912 

grain, which was ruining their corn-growing neighbours. Ahnost 
everywhere retrenchment, not jdevelopment, was the enforced4)ohcy 
of agriculturists. The expense of laying land down to grass was 
shirked, and arable areas which were costly to work were allowed 
to tumble down to rough pasture. Ecoijomy ruled in farm manage- 
ment ; labour bills were reduced, and the number of men employed 
on the land dwindled as the arable area contracted.^ 

During the years 1883-90, better seasons, remissions of rent, the 
fall in tithes, rehef from some portion of the burden of rates, had 
arrested the process of impoverishment. To some extent the heavy 
land, whether arable or pasture, which wet seasons had deteriorated, 
recovered its tone and condition. But otherwise there was no 
recovery. Landlords and tenants still stood on the verge of ruin. 
Only a shght impulse was needed to thrust them over the border 
line. Two cold summers (1891-2), the drought in 1893, the unpro- 
pitious harvest of 1894, coupled with the great fall in prices of corn, 
cattle, sheep, wool, butter, and milk produced a second crisis, 
scarcely, if at all, less acute than that of 1879. In this later period 
of severe depression, unseasonable weather played a less important 
part than before. But in all other respects the position of agri- 
culturists was more disadvantageous than at the earher period. 
Foreign competition had relaxed none of its pressure ; on the 
contrary, it had increased in range and in intensity. Nothing now 
escaped its influence. But the great difference lay in the compara- 
tive resources of agriculturists. In 1879 the high condition of_the 
land had supphed farmers with reserves of fertihty on which to 
draw ; now, they had beendrawn upon to exhaustion. In 1879, 
again, both landlords and tenants were still possessed of capital ; 
now, neither had any money to spend in attempting to adapt their 
land to new conditions. 

In September ,^1893, a Royal Commission was appointed to enquire 
into the depression of agriculture. The evidence made a startling 
revelation of the extent to which owners and occupiers of land, and 
the land itself, had been impoverished since the Report of the Duke 
of Richmond's Commission. It showed that the value of produce 
had diminished by nearly one half, while the cost of production had 
rather increased than diminished ; that quantities of corn-land 
had passed out of cultivation ; that its restoration, while the present 
prices prevailed, was economically impossible ; that its adaptation 
^ See Census Returns of Occupations, Appendix VII. 



ROYAL COMMISSION OF 1893 ^ 381 

to other uses required an immediate outlay which few owners could 
afiford to make. Scarcely one bright feature relieved the gloom 
of the outlook. Foreign competition had falsified all predictions. 
No patent was possible for the improved processes of agriculture ; 
they could be appropriated by all the world. The skill which 
British farmers had acquired by half a century of costly experiments 
was turned against them by foreign agriculturists working under 
more favourable conditions. Even distance ceased to afford its 
natural protection either of time or cost of conveyance, for not even 
the perishable products of foreign countries were excluded from 
EngHsh markets. Yet the evidence collected by the Commission 
estabHshed some important facts. It proved that many men, 
possessed of ample capital and energ}^ who occupied the best 
equipped farms, enjoyed the greatest liberty in cropping, kept the 
best stock, and \^ere able to continue high farming, had weathered 
the storm even on heavy land ; that small occupiers emplojdng no 
labour but their o^^ti had managed to pull through ; that, on 
suitable soils, market gardening and fruit-farming had proved 
profitable ; that, even on the derehct claj's of Essex, Scottish milk- 
farmers had made a living. At no previous period, it may be added, 
in the history of farming were the advantages and disadvantages of 
Enghsh land-o'v^Tiership more strongly illustrated. Many tenants 
renting land on encumbered estates were ruined, because their 
hard-pressed landlords were unable to give them financial help. 
At least as many were nursed through the bad times by the assist- 
ance of landoA^Tiers whose wealth was derived from other sources 
than agricultural land. 

When the extent of the agricultural loss and suffering is con- 
sidered, the remedies adopted by the legislature seem trivial. Yet 
some useful changes were made. Farmers were still further pro- 
tected against adulteration of cake, fertilisers, and dairy produce 
by the provisions of The Fertihsers and Feeding Stuffs Act (1893) 
and the Sale of Food and Drugs Act (1899). The Market Gardeners 
Compensation Act (1895) enabled a tenant, where land was specifi- 
cally let for market garden purposes, to claim compensation for all 
improvements suitable to the business, even though they had been 
effected without the consent of the landlord. The Improvement 
of Land Act (1899) gave lando-s^Tiers increased faciUties for carry- 
ing out improvements on borrowed money. The amendment of 
the Contagious Diseases of Animals Act (1896), requiring aU foreign 



382 ADVERSITY. 1874-1912 

animals to be slaughtered at the port of landing, was a valuable 
step towards preventing the spread of infection. The Agricultural 
Rates Act (1896) and the subsequent Continuation Acts (1901, etc.), 
though they were only paUiatives which did not settle the many 
questions involved in the increasing burden of rates, rendered the 
load of local taxation for the moment less oppressive. After aU, 
agriculturists received little assistance from Parliament. They had 
to help themselves. Conditions slowly mended. More favourable 
seasons, rigid economy in expenses, attention to neglected branches 
of the industry have combined to lessen the financial strain. But the 
greatest rehef has been afforded by the substantial reduction in the 
rents of agricultural land, which has resulted in a fairer adjustment 
of the economic pressure of low prices as between o^\^^ers and 
occupiers. 

The state of agriculture in 1901-2 has been described by a dis- 
tinguished man of letters, who is also a practical farmer. In the 
two portly volumes of his Rural England, Sir H. Rider Haggard 
has collected a mass of evidence, gathered from what he himself 
saw and heard in 27 counties of England. The work is a monument 
of physical energy and endurance. It is also a contemporary 
record of rural facts and conditions, to which time will add historical 
value. Future generations will turn to Rural England as the present 
generation turns to Arthur Young, or William Marshall, or James 
Caird. Yet the situation which Sir H. Rider Haggard described 
ten years ago has already improved. The problem of agricultural 
labour continues to be acute ; the burden of rural rates has doubled. 
But no unprejudiced observer in 1912 would paint the picture of 
farming to-day in such gloomy colours. Owing^ j)artly to_the 
re duction of rents, partlyjtqjthe improvement, in prices obtained for 
agricultural produce, partly to economies in management, the 
present financial condition of agriculture^ as compared with 1901, 
may be described as prosperous. If he were not haunted by the 
unknown terrors of social legislation, and the consequent insecurity 
of his tenure, a tenant-farmer might possibly admit to himself in 
secret that his industry has not been in a sounder position for the 
last 35 years. 
-^ Since the disasters of 1874-85, and under the continuous pressure 
of foreign competition, agriculture has profoundly changed. A 
loss of capital so great, a period of depression so prolonged, the 
intrusion of so new and disturbing an element in every calculation, 



VARIETY IN FARM PRODUCE^ 385 

could scarcely fail to afifect every side of farming. Yet at no time 
during this trjdng period was improvement completely arrested. 
On the contrary, it not only continued in the old-estabHshed forms 
of the industry, but extended to a variety of other branches. What 
were formerly the by-products of farming have assumed a new 
importance. When once landlords and tenants reaHsed that the 
prospect of a rise in the prices of cereals was for years to come 
remote, and when, more slowly, they became convinced that Pro- 
tection of food produce can never be revived on a scale which can 
really help corn-growers, they set themselves to develop the land 
on more varied Hnes. The area of corn-crops was reduced. Wood- 
lands, which were only valued for beauty or as game covers, began 
to be treated commercially on the principles of scientific forestry. 
The development of the milk trade, dairying, pasture-farming, 
flower-growing, market-gardening, poultry-keeping is characteristic 
of the new period. The Woburn experimental fruit-farm has 
collected a mass of tested experiments for the guidance of fruit- 
growers. Farmers grow potatoes, brussels, and other market- 
garden crops on their land. It is the day of small things. If 
money could no longer be made in farming, it might still be saved. 
Instead of the large stake and open-handed expenditure of the old- 
fashioned corn-grower, there are many small stakes and a careful 
attention to minute details. The eggs are not crowded into one 
basket, but are distributed in many baskets. 

V ariety is one of the e nforced imp rovemenj^iiLmQdern farming ; 
attention to detail is another ; strict , economy is a third ; the 
s topp age of leakages is ajourth. Farmers themselves have changed 
for the better as captains of industry. To-day they are for the 
most part alertj_ receptive of new ideas, keenly sensible of their 
debt to science, eager to accept its latest suggestions. In all 
departments of agriculture it is now reahsed that the best produce 
commands the readiest sale, and a more general approximation to a 
high standard of farming may be legitimately regarded as advance. 
In corn:;growing there is no increased produoijon. But prices, not 
skill and enterprise, are the chief bar to greater yields. Agriculture 
differs essentially from manufacture. The larger the output of 
goods, the lower the average cost of production to the manufacturer. 
It is not so with the farmer. The bushels that are added to the 
ordinary yield are those which are most expensive to raise and 
increase the average cost of production. Experiments at Rotham- 



384 ADVERSITY, 1874-1912 

sted and Sawbridgeworth have showii that it is possible to grow 
corn year after year, without rotations of crops, without stock- 
keeping, and without deterioration of the soil. But the experiment 
has proved to be of Uttle practical value, because at present prices 
it is too costly to keep the land clean for continuous corn-growing. 
In hve-stock, unprovements have been continuous, and have even 
received a fresh impulse from the prolonged collapse of corn- 
growing. Old breeds have been revived and brought into com- 
petition with their established rivals ; societies and pedigree books 
have become almost universal. Some of the most important of the 
new foundations are the Hunter Improvement Society (1885), the 
Suffolk Stud-book Association (1877), the Hackney Horse Society 
(1884), the Cleveland Bay Society (1884), the Yorkshire Coach 
Horse Society (1887) ; the Galloway Cattle Society (1877), the 
Highland Cattle Society (1884), the Guernsey Cattle Society (1885), 
the Kerry and Dexter Herdbook (1890 2), the Welsh Black Cattle 
Society (1904), the British Holstein Cattle Society (1909). Flock- 
books were pubHshed for Shropshire Sheep (1883), Oxford Downs 
(1889), Hampshire Downs (1890), Dorset Horns (1892) and Downs 
(1906),Lincohis and Cot swolds (1892), Leicesters and Cheviots (1893), 
Romney Marsh (1895), Border Leicesters (1899), Welsh Mountain 
Sheep (1905). Cross-breeding for mutton with the hardy mountain 
breeds has been introduced into the North, and extensively prevails. 
The popularity of polo has created a new industry. The Polo Pony 
Society (1893) will probably develop and improve such hill and 
mountain breeds as those of Dartmoor, Exmoor, the New Forest, 
or Wales, all of which already have their associations or societies. 

The branches of farming which had been comparatively neglected 
in the past were naturally those in which recent improvements 
have been most marked. To thgjtreatment of pastures, for example, 
increased attention has been paid since De Laune and Carruthers 
did their pioneer work. Their management is now better under- 
stood. _Jn manuring_grass-lands, the necessity of studying their 
characteristic vegetation, the different needs of meadows and 
pastures, the use of occasional hming, the value of basic slag (1883) 
have been demonstrated, and based on scientific principles. The 
increased importance of poultry-farming and market-gardening, 
agaiQ, has been illustrated by the care and pains bestowed on their 
improvement. In aU the new as well as the old departments of 
farming, science and mechanical ingenuity have not stood stiU. 



THE AID OF SCIENCE ^ 385 

Both have achieved notable triumphs. It speaks volumes for the 
energy of agriculturists that, in the face of much discouragement, 
so much has been accomphshed. It is no shght proof of their 
practical abihty that enterprise should have been so promptly 
directed into those branches of the industry which still promised 
profits. 

In i^hour^ need, agriculture found in science its most useful 
^elp. Over a long range of subjects science has estabHshed the 
relations of cause and effect, reduced practice to principles, sub- 
stituted certainties for surmises, laws for rules of thumb. Geology 
and chemistry have given to tillers of the soil their invaluable aid. 
Geology has taught the reasons which govern the superfluity or 
absence of bottom water, furnished definite classifications of soils, 
ascertained the composition of the different strata, explained the 
principles that control their capabihties and degrees of fertihty. 
Chemistry by its analyses reveals the elements on which depend the 
agricultural values of land, studies its mechanical condition and 
its influence on crops, suggests how to remove differences or supply 
deficiencies, to equahse varieties in the character of the soil, or to 
restore its exhausted properties, analyses fertilisers and feeding 
stuffs, assists husbandry at every stage and in the minutest details. 
In the Rothamsted experiments are summarised its triumphs. It 
is a matter of national congratulation that those experiments, each 
year more valuable from their continuity, have not been interrupted 
hy the deaths of Sir John Lawes (born 1814) in 1900, and of Sir 
Henry Gilbert (born 1817) in 1901. The re-discovery of Mendel's 
theory of heredity, first published in 1865, has opened out new 
vistas of possibiHty to stock-breeders, helped to correct some of 
the abuses of continuous in-and-in breeding, promises to fix new 
variations, to blend useful characteristics in one type, to establish 
new strains of live-stock. Similar experiments are being conducted 
in the cross-fertilisation of crop and pasture plants, designed to 
produce new types of earlier maturity, increased vigour of growth, 
greater power to resist the attacks of insect pests or fungi, heavier 
weight, stronger yield, better quality. Through meteorology 
science is attempting to solve the perplexities of farmers by fore- 
casts of the weather. It has suggested the potential capacity of 
electricity to increase the fertihty of the soil. 

In the prevention, if not in the cure, of disease science has made 
rapid advance. Veterinary skiU every year prevents the loss of 

2b 



386 ADVERSITY, 1874-1912 

innumerable lives of valuable animals. The ancient cow-leech is 
superseded by practitioners, who detect bacilH almost as unerringly 
as their medical brethren. The cause of anthrax has, at least, 
been discovered, and a preventive suggested in inoculation ; the 
tuberculin test provides the means of detecting latent tuberculosis 
in cattle ; redwater has been traced to its source ; the minute 
agent of the virus in swine-fever is revealed ; acorn-fever, which 
proved fatal to numbers of young cattle in 1900, has been diagnosed 
and distinguished from mere indigestion. In foot-and-mouth dis- 
ease, the period of latency or incubation has been defined, though 
the nature, origin, and means of transmission of the infection stiU 
require investigation. In another, yet similar, direction science has 
achieved new successes pecuHarly appropriate to this day of small 
things, when minute attention to detail often turns loss into gain. 
Miss Onnerod (1828-1901), for many years the friend and adviser 
of farmers on the subject of insect pests injurious to the health of 
animals and plants, left behind her as her life-work a systematised 
agricultural entomology, which subsequent research continues to 
enlarge and perfect. The various kinds and infectious natures of 
fungi which attack trees, fruit, and field or garden crops have been 
carefully investigated. A new impulse has been given to clean 
farming by the discovery that weeds, like docks and thistles, 
harbour the mangold fly ; or, like dandehons or plantains, foster 
eel- worms ; or, hke charlock, house the turnip weevil, harbour the 
finger-and-toe fungus, feed the turnip fly, and offer winter-quarters 
to the chrysalids of the diamond-backed moth. Nor has science 
been content only to point out the dangers ; it has supphed farmers, 
fruit-growers, and market gardeners with an armoury of remedies, 
preventives, and disinfectants. From 1882, when soft soap and 
quassia was first appHed to hops, the number of these weapons 
against the insect or the fungus has rapidly multiphed. Science 
has proved the value of formalin for the prevention of bHndness 
in oats or smut in barley ; it has tested the use as fungicides of the 
Bordeaux mixture and iron and copper sulphates, of arsenate of 
lead and Paris Green as insecticides, of naphthalene for eel-worm, 
of fumigation wdth hydrocyanic acid gas, of spraying potatoes with 
the Wobum Bordeaux mixture, of washing fruit-trees with the 
Woburn Wash, of destrojdng charlock at an early stage of growth 
by spraying with solutions of copper. 

In mechanical invention innumerable improvements have been 



NEW IMPLEMENTS 387 

effec ted since 1874. That America should have gained the lead 
in this field is but another symptom of the depression of English 
agriculture and its loss of capital. No detailed list can be attempted. 
But, speaking broadly, progress has consisted rather in variations 
of ^Id^principles than in the introduction of new implements. The 
rea^erandbinder is perhaps the most important of all the mechanical 
novelties which^ have been introducecr~dufmg the period. ~Wire- 
binders were brought over to Europe in 1873 ; but farmers and 
millers alike protested against the use of wire as a binding material. 
The Appleby string-binder (1878-9) removed the obstacle. Numerous 
varieties of the machine are now in general use as one of the most 
valuable and efficient substitutes for hand-labour. Scarifiers, 
clodcrushers, steam diggers, cultivators, and other implements of 
torture for the land, have been improved in different details ; in 
every stage in the cultivation and harvesting of cereals machinery 
has been brought to high perfection ; and the Ivel agricultural 
motor may be the forerunner of further developments. The 
increased importance of potatoes as a field crop is shown, not only 
by the experiments carried on at Garforth, Kew, and Cambridge, 
but by the invention of machines to plant and raise the produce. 
If potato-harvesters distinguished tubers from stones, their 
universal success would probably be assured. No substitute for 
hand-labour in thinning or lifting root-crops has yet been brought 
into practical use. Flockmasters have profited by the invention of 
sheep-shearing machines. Various oil-engines have proved them- 
selves valuable aids for all sorts of work at the homestead. Power 
presses (1880), though chiefly designed to compress hay and straw 
for transport, have proved useful for storage purposes. Ensilage, 
warmly advocated in 1888 as a means of saving hay crops in good 
condition during wet and catchy seasons, has now been applied to 
storing green fodder crops for winter keep in seasons of drought or 
in case of the failure of roots. When originally introduced, the cost 
of constructing silos prohibited their adoption by hard-pressed 
farmers. Now, however, it has been found that the simpler and 
less costly process of stacking or clamping will make excellent 
silage. Mention must also be made of the use_nf wire and corrng^ated 
iro n for fencing and farm bj iildings. Where thousands of acres of 
land had to be adapted to new requirements the use of these materials 
enabled poverty-stricken agriculturists to effect changes which 
would have been impossible in more expensive materials. 



388 ADVERSITY, 1874-1912 

In th^yeaTsJ.837-74, im provement in all the art s of cultivating, 
harvesting, and marketing cereals were the most distinctive feature. 
In the later period, progress, practical, mechanical, and scientific, 
in all the arts of managing milk produce has been most conspicuous. 
The British Dairy Farmers^ Association and its Journal (1876), the 
British Dairy Institute, the prominence given by the Royal Agri- 
cultural Society and other societies to shows of dairy appliances 
and the encouragement they have afforded to the study of the 
subject, travelling dairy and cheese schools, the dairy schools and 
technical classes of Agricultural Colleges and County Councils, the 
writings and practical work of a host of experts, and, above all, 
the absolute necessity of rivalUng the skill of foreign competitors 
in the home markets, have all contributed to a vast advance in the 
practice and science of dairying. 

Foreign methods have been carefully studied, the comparative 
merits of the different breeds of milch cows investigated, and the 
same labour has begun to be bestowed upon the perfection of milk- 
ing quaUties which has produced such great results in the fattening 
quahties of cattle and sheep. Cheese-makers will prefer one breed, 
butter-makers another, milk-sellers a third. Yet there will always 
be a tendency to sacrifice something of the special purpose for the 
sake of a breed which promises to be saleable as beef when the 
milking days are over. It is the combination__of_ milking and 
feeding quahtie s which makes the Pairy_SJiQrthorn^ wiiether pedigree 
or non-pedigree, and the Ayrshires such popular favourites. As 
butter-makers the Jerseys are probably pre-eminent. ~Tn every 
detail _of_maniLgemerit, from the premises and the water-supply 
down to the milkman and his utensils, the necessity of absolute 
cleanHness has been demonstrated. It is enforced by stringent 
legislation; it is also ba:Sed on science and-GOmmon sense. No 
product changes its character more readily than milk. If con- 
taminated, it loses its freshness and the producer his customers. 
Milking machines have been invented ; but owing to the difficulty 
of cleaning the tubes, they have for the most part met with but 
moderate success. The Lawrence-Kennedy type, both the Simplex 
and the Duplex, has, however, succeeded both on the Continent 
and at home. Considering the provisions of the Sale of Food and 
Drugs Act and the Sale of Milk Regulations, and the risk of pro- 
secutions, it is surprising that milk records of the jueld of each cow 
are not more regularly kept, and that milk is not more often tested 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCE ^ 389 

for butter fat. Good milkers are not more expensive to Iceep than 
bad ; but the difiference of their yield may range between 1000 and 
300 gallons, or less, a year. Unless the yield is recorded, the owner 
may be annually losing money by several animals in his herd. 
Similarly, the percentage of butter fat is of the utmost importance 
both to the milk-seller and the butter-maker. Without occasional 
tests, owners do not know which of their animals are lowering the 
average of the herd, and to what extent. On the Continent, it is not 
uncommon for the dairy-farmers of a district to combine and 
contribute to the employment of a man who records and tests the 
yields of milk at so much an animal. Similar associations have 
been formed m Scotland for the same purpose, and County Educa- 
tion Committees in England might well include this object among 
the items of their expenditure. Such records are in other respects 
valuable. Nothing is more hereditary than milking quahty. 
Strains of milkers, whose pedigrees were based on records of their 
performances, must command their price. In Denmark herd- 
books founded on this principle have been already adopted with 
success. In England the formation of the Dairy Shorthorn Associa- 
tion (1905) marked the establishment of a practice which is beginning 
to spread. Such milking herds as those of Lord Rothschild, or of 
Messrs. Evens, Hobbs, or Watney, are already famous. 

In all the processes of dealing with milk, scientific principles and 
mechanical aids have made triumphant progress. Fifty years ago, 
in every stage from the churn, butter was made up and prepared 
for market by hand ; wooden utensils were in common use ; 
separators were unknown ; thermometers were rarely employed. 
The value of the butter largely depended on the personal element 
in the maker. Uniform quahty and condition were impossible ; 
variety of both was the rule ; in winter months a regular supply 
was difficult. It was not perhaps surprising that wholesale buyers 
preferred the foreign products, on the uniformity of which they 
could depend. At the present day the personal element, though 
still all-important in the trade with private customers, is largely dis- 
counted by the adoption of scientific rules and the use of mechanical 
apphances. The sep arator has produced the greatest revolution 
in dairy managem ent, and ranks with. the. reaper and binder as 
one of the chief novelties of the period. The principle of the 
centrifuge, invented in 1867 for separating hquids from such sub- 
stances as paint, was applied to milk about 1879. It thus became 



390 ADVERSITY, 1874-1912 

the parent of the Laval, Lefeldt, Petersen, and other varieties of 
the separator. Improved by successive developments, it can now 
be purchased at a third of its former cost. In its wake have followed 
a variety of improved appHances — churns to suit every fancy, milk- 
testers, milk-coolers, centrifugal butter driers, butter workers, 
butter hardeners, steel pails, tin-lined utensils, down to grease- 
proof paper, and chip or paper boxes for marketing the produce. 
In recent years an effort has also been made to compete with the 
soft cheeses of foreign countries. Excellent cheeses of the type 
of Brie, Camembert, and Gervais are now produced by EngHsh 
dairies. If there is a weak side to all this progress, it lies in the fact 
that the processes of butter and cheese-m akin g are becomijig too 
elab orate 3 nd scienti?ic for~7^ ordinary run of agriculturists. 
There is certainly some rjsk that this branch of the farming indij^stry 
mayi_become confined to creameries and associations, and that 
wholesale dealers may refuse the products which have not come 
from a factory. 

In the science and practice of the various branches of farming, 
progress has been great, and it has been helped by a corresponding 
increase in the means of obtaining agricultural education. Through- 
out the country numerous centres have been established in addition 
to those previously in existence. Aspatria (1874), Downton (1880), 
the University College of North Wales (1884), followed by colleges, 
schools and institutes in South Wales, Kent, Yorkshu-e, Derbyshire, 
Shropshire, and other counties, at Cambridge, Reading, Penrith, 
Swanley, Uckfield, Chelmsford, and elsewhere, the Armstrong 
College at Newcastle-on-Tyne, the Cheshire Agricultural and Horti- 
cultural Institute, the Harris Institute at Preston, the Eastern 
Counties Dairy Institute at Ipswich, the National Fruit and Cider 
Institute at Bristol, and similar institutions in various parts of 
England, offer new opportunities of practical and scientific training 
to future landlords, farmers, and land-agents. At many of these 
centres, degrees or certificates can be obtained. Examinations for 
National diplomas are conducted by the Royal and Highland 
Agricultural Societies. The admirable leaflets issued by the Board 
of Agriculture supply the latest scientific discoveries in the shortest 
compass, either free or at the smallest possible cost. In local ex- 
penditure on technical education, instruction in agricultural subjects 
is represented, and the range of the lectures and classes organised 
by County Councils continues to extend. Instruction in forestry is 



AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION -- 391 

given at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, at the University 
of North Wales, the Armstrong College, and in the Public Depart- 
ment of Woods and Forests in Alice Holt Woods and the Forest of 
Dean. Considerable sums are also expended by the Boards of 
Education and of Agriculture in subvention to colleges and institutes, 
and for the furtherance of agricultural training. 

Education on a scale so varied and extensive must in the long run 
produce results. Already its effect is visible. Unfortunately, for 
the children of agricultural labourers little or nothing is done which 
does not unfit them for their fathers' industry. They cannot afford 
to attend Colleges or Institutes. Continuation and night schools 
do not begin till the mischief is really done. Whatjsjnost wanted 
is some f orm of elem entary instructim in rural schools adapted to 
the nggds^of agriculturists. The problem is admittedly difficult. 
Teachers, as a rule, are not interested in country life. Here and 
there, an individual may succeed in implanting his own rural 
enthusiasms in his j)upils. Text-books adapted to the surroundings 
of country children may prove a help. But the practical training 
is still wanting. School gardens are a step in the right direction. 
Rightly or wTongly, no effort has been made to imitate the con- 
tinental practice of closing rural schools from hay-time to harvest, 
and lengthening j.he_winter.JiQurs. Whether some more suitable 
system of elementary rural education might not have helped to 
check rural depopulation may be an open question. School 
influences alone can never attract young persons to remain on the 
land. But at present they rather promote than discourage migra- 
tion into towns, and farmers not unnaturally grudge the growing 
expenditure on an education which assists in making rural labour 
at once more scarce and less efficient. Elementary education may 
not always produce this effect. In its present stage of transition, 
its disturbing influences are increased by the conditions of rural 
homes. The younger generation is better educated than the old, 
and both are conscious of the fact. This sense of disparity fosters 
in the children a distaste for village life, and in the parents a desire 
that the superior attainments of their children should have wider 
opportunities than they themselves enjoyed. In another genera- 
tion, the disparity will have disappeared ; the atmosphere of the 
home will have become, it may be hoped, more educated. At this 
later stage of its development, education may tend rather to con- 
tentment than to discontent. It may in itself supply those fresh 



392 ADVERSITY, 1874-1912 

and enduring sources of interest which make light of external con- 
ditions. If this ever becomes the influence of elementary education, 
it may help to repeople the country districts which it now tends to 
depopulate. 

The general record of Enghsh farming during the last seventy 
years is a legitimate source of pride to all who have contributed to 
its advance. It shows a marvellous progress in every department 
of agriculture, effected in the face of heavy sacrifices and innumerable 
difficulties. High farming has lost the buoyancy and enthusiasm 
of youth ; its later years were soured by losses and disappointments ; 
to-day, in spite of improved conditions, it views the future with 
alarm. Whatever the future may have in store, it h,a§.^QadeJand- 
lo rds and te nants better_e£uipiped _to^^rofit- J3ji_prosperity or. to 
combat misfojtune^ than they have been aL-a ny previous p eriod of 
history. 



1888 AND 1912 COMPARED ^ 395 



CHAPTER XIX. 
CONCLUSION. 

1888 and 1912 : political agitation then and now ; the situation contrasted 
and compared ; the position of landowners ; of titheowners ; of tenant- 
farmers ; tenant-right as a defence against sales ; agricultural labourers, 
their slow progress between 1834 and 1884, and their Unions ; their 
improved position in 1912. The problem of the future ; the reconstruction 
of village life : the necessity of an agricultural pohcy : the prospect of 
increased burdens on agricultural land. 

Many persons cannot conceive it possible that, even in this century 
of rapid changes, any serious alterations in the existing systems of 
the tenure and cultivation of English land are really imminent. To 
them it seems incredible that EngHsh farming can be destined, on 
any extensive scale, to revert towards conditions out of which it 
finally emerged in the Victorian era. They may be right or wrong 
in their views. On that point no opinion need be here expressed. 
The task of sketching the story of " Enghsh farming past and present" 
ends with the present day. Conjectures as to the future of farming, 
or programmes for its reconstruction, belong rather to prophets and 
poHticians than to chroniclers. Yet the existing conditions of farm- 
ing are already disturbed by anticipations, whether true or false, of 
coming change. In order to complete the sketch of Enghsh farm- 
ing doTVTi to 1912, it is, therefore, necessary to attempt a summary of 
the present position of landlords, tenants, and labourers. 

By way of contrast or comparison, fom' passages may be quoted 
from the first edition of this book, pubhshed 24 years ago under the 
title of The Pioneers and Progress of English Farming. At the time 
when the book appeared, agriculture was still suffering from severe 
depression. It was a middle period between the disasters of 1874- 
1885 and those of 1891-1899. Some signs of revival had appeared ; 
but the outlook alike for landowners, tenants, and labourers was- 
still gloomy. 



394 CONCLUSION 

Many landlords had succeeded to estates which were heavily 
encumbered by settlements, charges and mortgages, laid on in more 
prosperous times. They could not dispose of their property, for 
land was a drug in the market ; rates and taxes swallowed up the 
residue of the rents which was left from interest and charges ; the 
so-called oMTier had become a conduit pipe between his tenants on 
the one side, and, on the other, his family, the mortgagees, rate- 
collectors, and tax-gatherers. Anyone who lived in the country at 
that period can call to mind numerous famihes who had curtailed 
their expenditure, cut down their establishments, let or closed their 
houses, or become absentees on the continent. Among farmers, 
arrears, bills of sale, hquidations, bankruptcies kept ever in advance 
of reductions and remissions of rent. Their numbers diminished. ^ 
Many were farming as bailiffs instead of as tenants, or were apphcants 
for rehef from the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution. Of those 
who remained in occupation, the most capable men, who were wide 
iawake to every chance of profit, kept the master's eye upon their 
1 business, and in personal expenses had cut their coats to their cloth, 
were making farming pay ; but the majority were paying rent out 
(of capital and holding on by their eyelids in hopes of better times. 
Labourers, as the area of corn-growing dwindled, and the labour-bill 
was reduced to a minimum, found employment hard to get and hard 
to keep : thro^\^l out of work, or half employed, they crowded into 
the towns where their El Dorado proved to be the workhouse or 
worse. The landowner's expendable income was Httle or nothing, 
the farmer's fixed rent an improvident speculation, the labourer's 
wage uncertain and precarious. 

Conditions were favourable for violent change. For the moment the 
relations between landlord and tenant were embittered. Labourers, 
smarting under the recent defeat of their Unions, were hostile. 
In every direction pohtical agitators were active. Insecurity 
paralysed recovery ; it rendered chronic the collapse which disas- 
trous seasons and foreign competition had produced. Many of the 
ideas and theories of advanced reformers in 1888 differed little from 
those of 1912 ; in language only have they become more precise or 
definite. " Crude panaceas are in vogue at the present day ; wild 
theories are promulgated for the redistribution of EngUsh land. In 
the days of her commercial and agricultural supremacy, England 
might safely ignore such demands for change. An ever-increasing 
^ See Appendix VII. " Census Returns of the Agricultural Population." 



EFFECT OF POLITICAL UNREST^ 395 

prosperity postponed the shock of antagonistic interests. But now, 
\vhen disastrous seasons and foreign competition paralyse the ener- 
gies of agriculturists, when commerce ceases to expand with sufficient 
rapidity to employ a growing population, land questions are not 
merely considered with curiosity, but the exclusive privileges of the 
few are discussed with deepening eagerness. The assailants of 
property may be noisy out of all proportion to their numbers ; their 
confidence may rather proceed from ignorance than from the calm 
of reasoned conviction ; they may have given no proof, tested by 
success, that their schemes are feasible ; they may forget that the 
first and worst sufferers by economic blunders are the poor ; but it 
is idle to ignore the danger of an agitation which has already scared 
away capital from the land, and renders chronic the enfeebled con- 
dition of agriculture. . . . The cry is raised, and assiduously 
encouraged by pohtical leaders, that landlords are a parasitical 
growth, a remnant of feudalism, a class that reaps what others sow. 
The misconception is industriously fostered that England is a soUtary 
exception to the universal rule of European landholding. It is 
maintained with increasing vehemence that God made the land for 
the people, that land is an ager pvblicus, which the State has granted 
to landlords to administer, but which she may at pleasure resume. 
Men quote with approval Mirabeau's retort to the objection that he 
could not sell the landed property of the Church — ' Not sell it ! Then 
I will give it.'" 1 

The effect of political unrest upon the agricultural industry in 
1888 was the same as it is at the present day. " So long as wild 
proposals for compulsory redistribution of property received the 
support of prominent politicians, no landlord would expend money on 
improvements, no capitaHst, large or small, would invest in the 
purchase of land, no tenant would accept a lease, no labourer would 
put his heart into his work. While the intentions of the Legislature 
remained dubious and threatening, land continued to be unsaleable 
and half -farmed. Behind all legislative changes lurked the ominous 
question of confiscation. Land may be treated as private property, 
held so as not to prejudice the pubUc welfare, but not to be taken 
from owners without fair compensation ; or it may be distinguished 
from private property, and the principles which guard private 
pioperty held inappUcable to land. On which line was land legisla- 
tion to proceed ? Wild talk about State-ownership, ransom, and 
^ Pioneers and Progress of English Farming (1888), pp. 126-7. 



396 CONCLUSION 

natural rights, societies to nationalise the land, heroic remedies of 
illogical half-disciples of Mr. Henry George, might be in themselves 
of little importance. But when the air was filled with vague threats, 
the attitude of Ministers remained studiously neutral. Agitators 
complained of conditions which they themselves rendered chronic. 
Meanwhile the continued insecurity was rapidly producing results 
which threatened the subversion of rural society. Fortunately the 
example has been recently given that a patriotic fusion of political 
parties for the promotion of national interests is yet possible in 
party government. That restoration of confidence, which is the 
indispensable preliminary to agricultural revival, seems aheady to 
have begun, and to bear fruit m renewed energy. Arguments 
urged against the artificial creation of a peasant proprietary scarcely 
apply to their natural growth. . . . Socially the advantages of a 
class of peasant owners are indisputably great. The rural economy 
of the nation would benefit by the diffusion of land ownership, and 
farming offers no exception to the rule that two strings to the bow 
are better than one. If legislation is only invoked to remove arti- 
ficial aids to the aggregation of large estates, the process m ill not 
foster that sense of insecurity which has paralysed the energies of 
landlords, and rendered chronic the enfeebled state of agriculture. 
Already signs appear of a tendency towards the multiplication of 
small tenant-farmers, if not of small owners. Small holdings 
obstructed progress so long as capital was required for the re- 
clamation, enclosure, drainage, and equipment of land. But at 
the present day this argument loses much of its force. So again, 
while England depended for grain on home supplies, corn could be 
produced more economically on large farms. Now, when prices 
render its home production unremunerative, and foreign suppHes 
are adequate to our wants, another argument for large farms is at 
least modified. Small farmers, content with small profits, depend- 
ing on gardens, live-stock, and dairies, commanding the unpaid 
labour of their own famiHes, may make both ends meet, where larger 
capitaHsts go through the Court. If agriculture is tending in this 
direction, legislation must remove aU hindrances to its natural 
course ; landlords are sufficiently ahve to their own interests to do 
the rest." ^ 

In 1888 the country seemed to be standing on the verge of some 
great change. The development of high farming had been arrested 
^ Pioneers and Progress of English Farming (1888), pp. 179-180. 



SMALL HOLDINGS IN 1888 ^ 397 

partly by unremunerative prices, partly by the unsolved problem of 
securing to tenants the unexhausted value of their own improve- 
ments, partly by the general want of confidence which pohtical 
uncertainties had greatly encouraged. Large farms went begging 
for occupiers. Agriculture with its new risks of pecuniary 
loss, and its modern drudgery of close economy in manage- 
ment, of minute attention to details, and constant personal 
supervision, had ceased to attract men who possessed from 
£5,000 to £10,000 in capital. In these circumstances it seemed 
probable that, where landlords could command the money 
for the initial outlay, they might with profit discard steam- 
ploughs and make spades trumps. As an alternative to 
allomng arable land to pass out of cultivation, and so in- 
creasing agricultural unemployment, the multiphcation of small 
holdings, on suitable soils, in suitable districts, and in suitable hands, 
seemed to be a sound business proposition. Experience already 
showed that small farms Avere easier to let than large. They com- 
manded higher rents ; they were better adapted to reduced capital, 
more suited to new conditions. Socially and pohticaUy, as well as 
economically, the estabhshment of closer relations between land and 
labour was advantageous. ""A peasant proprietary increases the 
number of those who have something to lose and nothing to gain by 
revolution, encourages habits of thrift and industry, gives the owner 
of land, however small his plot, a stake in the country, and a vested 
interest which guarantees his discharge of the duties of a citizen. 
Combined with the parfage forcS, it checks population, for la plupart 
des Normands n'ont pas lu Malthus, mais Us pratiquent instinctivement 
ses conseils. ... It affords a training to the rural population for 
which we in England have found no substitute. It checks the 
centrahsation of pauperism, the overgrowth of population, and the 
migration into towns. The element of stability which it contributes 
to the State is more valuable to the French than ourselves. There 
the towns are inflammable as touchwood, while the country ignites 
more slowly. Yet even here it is useful to have a class of slow- 
thinking men, who will answer pohtical firebrands with Cela est bien, 
mais il faut cultiver notre jardin." ^ 

Moreover, the movement of replacing the peasantry on those parts 

^Pioneers and Progress of English Farming (1888), p. 138. For details as 
to peasant proprietors and the departments in France where they thrive or 
do not exist, see the writer's Pleasant Land of France (1908). 



398 CONCLUSION 

of the land to which their industry is specially adapted would have 
gone far to satisfy their legitimate aspirations. Their memories 
are tenacious. Deeply hidden in the recesses of the labourer's 
mind lurk vague and often misunderstood traditions of the past 
conditions of rural life. He knows that he is tilling land as a wage- 
earner, which his forefathers farmed as occupiers. He does not 
realise that the change has been only a part of a great industrial 
revolution which affected manufacture as well as agriculture. In 
the multiplication of small holdings there also lay the opportunity 
of mitigating the most depressing influences of his present position 
and future prospects. " Speaking generally, the worst aspects of 
his life at the present moment are the decreasing demands for agri- 
cultural labour, the absence of any reasonable prospect of emerging 
from the condition of hired service, and the pauper allowance 
which rewards the most industrious career. Some readjustment 
between the demand and supply for labour, some social ladder, and 
some better provision against old age are the true needs of the agri- 
cultural poor. So far from relieving the glut of labour, the new 
departure in the practice of farming will still further congest the 
market. Economical management and increased breadths of grass, 
whether permanent or temporary, mean a reduction of working 
expenses, which uill take the form, not of less wages, but of less 
employment. Emigration affords the only other outlet for the 
excess of the labour supply." ^ 

Comparing the position of 1888 with that of 1912, it is obvious that 
there are resemblances as well as differences. Generally speaking, 
the problems remain the same ; time has only accentuated some 
and modified others. The great contrast between the two periods 
lies in the partial recovery of agriculture from acute depression. 
The great resemblance consists in the paralysing effect of the un- 
certainty of the pohtical outlook, which is infuiitely more menacing 
than in 1888. Were confidence once restored, the conditions of 
farming, given favourable seasons, might warrant anticipations of 
a considerable revival of the industry. 

The lapse of a quarter of a century has considerably changed 
the relative positions of the three agricultural classes. To many of 
them the depression of 1888 brought ruin. Of those who sur- 
vived, it meant to landlords a substantial reduction in the standard 
of living, to farmers a deprivation of comforts, to labourers a loss 
^ Pioneers and Progress of English Farming (1888), p. 226. 



POSITION OF LANDOWNERS ^ 39^ 

of necessaries. In actual money, labourers suffered least ; but 
standing, as they do, nearer the border-line of starvation, it is 
probably true that they also suffered most. At the present day, 
farmers have improved their position ; labourers, in spite of the 
recent rise in the price of provisions, are better ofif ; for landlords 
alone, although agricultural land readily commands both tenants 
and purchasers, the general conditions have materially changed 
for the worse. Financially crippled by recent taxation, land- 
lords are assailed with increasing vehemence. The attack upon 
the system of land-tenure which they represent derives fresh 
strength from the poverty to which they are reduced by increased 
taxes. They have not the command of money necessary either to 
give fair play to the system or to supplement it by creating small 
tenancies. At the same time, the attack is no longer aimed at 
them only as representatives of a system or as members of a class. 
The personal element is introduced ; venomous tongues attempt 
to poison the crowd against them as individuals. Courage in the 
face of odds has always characterised the landowning classes. 
They weathered the storm of 1888 ; they may " muddle through " 
the present crisis with equal success. Their prospects would be 
brighter, if they were more ahve to the reality of their position. 
Men are beginning to ask how many owners of land have 
troubled to master the intricacies of the undeveloped land duty, 
of the single tax, or of site values ; or have made themselves 
competent to explain their injustice, their fallacies, and their effects 
on rural districts. They are already wondering why landowners, 
up to the present moment, have formulated no alternative policy, 
and why they are still disunited, and still unable to agree on any 
concerted action. To most onlookers, it would seem the part of 
ordinary prudence, without further loss of time, to frame a compre- 
hensive programme of land reform on broad and generous hues, 
while maintaining the principle that private ownership is the only 
satisfactory system for progressive land-cultivation. 

Owners of agricultural land in England are numerically few. No 
doubt the paucity of their numbers in times past enhanced thek 
social position, as well as their power and influence. To-day it is 
a peril to stand where many envy and few sympathise. For man}'- 
years in our history, landowners, as a class, took the most active 
part in the politics of the country, and conducted the whole adminis- 
trative work of rural districts. They do not do so to-day. It may 



400 CONCLUSION 

be contended that, either from poverty, from want of leisure, or 
from disinclination, they have, as a class, ceased to bear the burden of 
political life, or undergo the irksome drudgery of local administration. 
Instances may be urged to prove that their local influence has 
dwindled to a vanishing point. Where individual members of the 
class retain it, they exercise it as men rather than as landowners. 
Yet the weight which such men possess in their own districts 
suggests that the leadership is still open to those who care to earn 
it. Even in agricultural matters, the lead has to a great extent 
passed out of their hands. Up to 1889, all the improvements in 
Enghsh farming which at one time had gained for this country an 
undisputed supremacy in the art and practice of agriculture were 
effected by private capital, by individual enterprise, by personal 
initiation. Landlords were the pioneers of improvement. Now the 
State, for good or for evil, itself undertakes much of the control 
and expenditure which formerly fell to the lando\\Tiing class. This 
transference of responsibility from private persons to the public 
department of the Board of Agriculture has undoubtedly borne 
excellent fruit. No one denies its advantages. That is not the 
point. Its estabhshment may be construed as an important reversal 
of an old ideal, an acknowledgment by landlords of their partial 
defeat, a tacit admission of the fact that our existing land-system 
can no longer supply from its o^vti resources the capital and direction 
required for the organisation of the industry.^ Private property in 
land is not so exceptional in its nature as to make its tenure 
legally assailable. But the moral title-deeds by which some of it is 
held are not, historically, Avithout a flaw ; and no prescriptive rights, 
according to the modern reading of an ancient maxim, can be 
acquired against the People. The possession of land has for hun- 
dreds of years been honourably associated with the unpaid discharge 
of laborious pubhc duties. If this association of service with 
privilege should be in any way weakened, the danger arising from 
the isolated position of landowners would be magnified, because 
substance and colour would be given to the allegation that land- 
owners are a parasitic growth which should be eradicated in the 
interests of national progress. 

It is alleged that, as a class, landowners are more ready than they 
once were to stand aloof from the strenuous political Hfe of the 

1 See this danger pointed out in the author's article on " An Agricultural 
Department" in the Nineteenth Century for April, 1889. 



THE WANT OF CAPITAL 401 

community, more willing to acquiesce in the loss of control over local 
affairs. If this is true, and if only a decreasing minority are still 
prepared to sacrifice their leisure and amusements to the discharge 
of public duties, it is an unhealthy, if not a dangerous, symptom. 
Something of the same apathy is certainly visible in the management 
of many estates. Much ought to be done, which is left undone, 
to put land to its most profitable use and to adapt its equipment to 
the requirements of diversified farming. The impoverishment of 
landowners by the new burden of taxation, which not only cripples 
their incomes but cuts into their capital, is undoubtedly the main 
cause of the neglect. They have not the money with which to make 
the necessary changes. To say this, however, is only to say that 
the modern system of farmmg has broken down in one of its most 
essential features. 

Intensive cultivation means the expenditure on the land either 
of more money or of more labour. The hberal appHcation of capital 
to land by both owner and occupier was one of the ideals at which 
high farming aimed from the close of the eighteenth century onwards. 
Landlords spent their money hberally on the up-to-date equipment 
of their land with houses, farm-buildings, cottages, drainage, 
fences, roads ; mainly by their expenditure, directly or indirectly, 
prairie land has been converted into agricultural land. Tenants 
hired the use of all this capital at the moderate rate of interest which 
is represented by the rent, and spent their own money generously 
in working their farms so as to obtain the largest possible return. 
So long as both parties were able to do their part, and so long as 
prices were remunerative, the system profited both. The nation 
also benefited by the increased amount and lessened cost of pro- 
duction. But during the last half of the reign of Queen Victoria, 
the rapid decline in the value of agricultural produce caused the 
collapse of the system. Both partners lost a large part of their 
capital. Prolonged depression compelled landlords to practise 
economies themselves and to acquiesce in the economies of their 
tenants. The land has suffered and is still suffering. Thousands of 
acres of tillage and grass-land are comparatively wasted, under- 
farmed, and undermanned. Countries, whose climate is severer 
than our own, and in which poorer soils are cultivated, produce far 
more from the land than ourselves. The gross receipts per cultivated 
acre in Great Britain have been calculated at only one-fifth of those 
of Belgium, and two-thirds of those of Denmark. 

2g 



402 CONCLUSION 

In these circumstances the demand is made that the other form 
of intensive cultivation should have its chance. If intensive 
capital is not forthcoming, let intensive labour try its hand on 
smaller areas. But here again landlords are in a dilemma. Whether 
the existing system is to be developed, or whether, in favourable 
situations, an extensive trial is to be made of the new, money is 
equally needed. Private lenders are suspicious of land as a security, 
and owners themselves are shy of adding by further investments on 
their land to the spoils of those who propose to tax them out of 
existence. They are naturally timid of depositing all their eggs in 
one rickety basket, the bottom of which may at any moment be 
pulled out. They might borrow from the State ; but the State, 
instead of assisting them to revive the old system or to make trial 
of the new, exercises its ingenuity in devising fresh schemes for 
then further impoverishment. The deadlock thus produced may 
be profitable to poHticians ; but the drain on the national resources 
caused by its continuance is great, and the loss which is inflicted 
on both tenant-farmers and wage-earning labourers is daily mcreas- 
ing. Meanwhile, unless impoverished landlords can obtain State 
assistance, their only resource is to sell their estates. Where this 
course is adopted, the interests of tenant-farmers are often seriously 
prejudiced. A sale forces them to adopt one of two courses. If 
they buy the land they occupy, they strip themselves of their working 
capital. If their farms are sold over their heads, they risk a still 
heavier loss. Purchase is the lesser of two evils. But, when the two 
alternatives are presented, they also stand in need of State assistance, 
which will enable them to borrow the whole purchase-money at 
moderate rates, and repayable by annual instalments. 

Besides the ordmary landlords, there is another class of owner 
whose position is serious. Clerical tithe-owners are threatened with 
the same general dangers as lay landowners, and they have besides 
their own special risks from the possible disendowment of the 
Church in England. They are powerless to sell. They can, at 
present, only await events. Yet ia more stable and more prosperous 
times, it might have been possible to suggest an arrangement for 
tithe redemption which, with the help of the legislature, would be 
advantageous ahke to them, to the tithe-payer, and to the community. 
The experiment might have been tried in Wales. As an alter- 
native to the proposed disendowment, it^is a poHcy which would 
go far to satisfj^ some of the parties concerned. It would benefit 



THE POSITION OF TITHE-OWNERS 403 

Welsh landlords, Welsh Churchmen, and the Welsh urban and rural 
population. It would remove the reluctance of many earnest 
Nonconformists to cripple the cause of Christianity by appro- 
priating to Caesar property dedicated to the service of God. 
Educationally and morally, 50,000 acres of land contiguous to the 
towns and villages of Wales would be of greater value than a wilder- 
ness of museums. It would be absurd to attempt to foretell the 
future price of corn. But probabihties seem to point to a gradual 
rise. On the other hand, for many years to come, the prospect of 
an approximation to par-value appears remote. Here there is 
room for compromise in settling the figure at which the net annual 
value of the charge, after deducting the necessary outgomgs, should 
be redeemed. If this figure could be agreed upon, landowners might 
be encouraged to extinguish the whole tithe issuing from their land 
in the parish by the surrender of the acreage of land required to 
produce the same net annual income which is now derived from the 
rent-charge. Care should be taken that the land so surrendered 
is near the village. Otherwise the mam advantage to the community 
would be lost. The amount of land thus rendered available cannot 
be accurately estimated till the figure is agreed ; but the total area 
would not be less than 2| milhon acres. It is not suggested that 
tithe-owners should be transformed into landowners. The process 
of redemption would be gradual, not simultaneous. It would be 
put in operation whenever pubhc bodies requhed to buy land for 
small holdings or village reconstruction, and the purchase money 
would be paid over to a church body, constituted on the lines 
adopted in Ireland. Present conditions are favourable to such a 
transaction. The price of land enables owners to extinguish the 
rent-charge by the surrender of a reasonable acreage, and the low 
price of Consols enables investors to obtain a larger interest on 
their money. 

Landlords and tenants are confronted with a common danger. 
They stand or fall together. Tenant-farmers have nothing to hoj)e 
for from theoretical land-reformers. The most thej^ can expect 
from the single tax is a rise of rents and an increased number of 
sales. Neither of these changes would be acceptable to a class of 
men who, in spite of their traditional pose as Kcensed grumblers, 
would rather remain as they are. 

As compared with 1888, tenant-farmers have imj^roved their 
position. From one point of view this might not appear to be the 



404 CONCLUSION 

case. At the earKer period they were masters of the situation. The 
land was begging for them, not they for the land. They had a 
large choice of holdings, and on their own terms. But mastery of a 
half -bankrupt situation was worth httle. To-day, though the 
demand for farms exceeds the supply, they are better off. In the 
general conduct of their business, the old difficulties continue ; some 
have even increased in seriousness. The pressure of foreign com- 
petition, for example, shows no sign of slackening ; labour has 
deteriorated in quaHty ; boys are hard to find ; railway rates require 
revision ; local taxation, which embraces such imperial objects as 
education, pohce, and main roads, has risen so greatly that it 
has akeady neutralised the advantages of the concession of paitial 
exemption. But worse in its effects than these known evils is the 
uncertainty of their tenure produced by recent legislation and by 
the threat of more drastic measures. 

For many years, the most disturbing element in the relations 
between landlord and tenant was the difficulty of securing to 
the tenant the unexhausted value of improvements effected by his 
own capital. The question has been again brought into prominence 
in an altered form by the attack on the position of landlords. 

As soon as high farming began, tenant-right, in one shape or 
another, became an absolute necessity. But landlords and the 
legislature were slow to recognise the need. If tenants were to be 
encouraged to invest their capital in the land, they must in justice 
receive some security for their outlay. At law they had no more 
than the mediaeval farmer who spent nothing on his holding. The 
law presumed that everything done to, or put into, the soil became 
the property of the landowner, who by adding to the rent the annual 
value of the tenant's outlay could appropriate it to his own profit. 
Exceptions to the legal presumption were estabhshed by the growth 
of customs of the country. But the protection thus afforded varied 
in amount, and even in its strongest forms was inadequate. It 
was therefore generally reahsed that the law must be modified, if 
not reversed, either by special agreement or by conferring on tenants 
a statutory right of property in their own improvements. 

The necessary outcome of the changing conditions of modern farm- 
ing was recognised in 1843, when Lord Portman failed to obtain 
legal security for a tenant's expenditure of capital on improvements. 
Philip Pusey in 1847 was equally unsuccessful. His Bill was, how- 
ever, referied to a select Committee of the House of Commons. 



TENANT-FARMERS AND TENANT-RIGHT 405 

Evidence was ofifered, not only on the harshness with which the legal 
presumption operated, but on the small degree of protection afforded 
by existing customs. It appeared that in most districts no allowance 
could be claimed for such permanent imjjrovements as drainage, or 
for those of a durable character like marling, hming, claying, or 
burning, or for those which were more temporary in their nature, 
such as the use of purchased manures, or the consumption on the 
land of oil-cake and other feeding-stuffs. In 1850 legislation was 
again refused. For twenty years the subject slumbered in Parha- 
ment. Meanwhile, outside the House, the question was rapidly 
becoming a burning one, and the foundation of the Central and 
Associated Chambers of Agriculture in 1866 gave strength and 
cohesion to the opinion of agriculturists. At last the principle was 
recognised in the Agricultural Holdmgs Act of 1875. Though the 
measure, from its optional character, was only indirectly effectual, 
it proved the starting-point of future legislation. To men of that 
generation compulsion was still unfamiHar. They thought it more 
essential to preserve freedom of contract, and it was on this ground 
that notable agriculturists, like Albert Pell,^ resisted the compulsory 
recognition of tenant-right. 

Since 1875 legislation has been active in securing to tenants the 
right to recover, as compensation for any improvements legally 
made by them on their holdings, the full remaining unexhausted 
value of those improvements. To-day farmers are practically safe- 
guarded for their outlay by custom, agreements, and Acts of Parha- 
ment. They are generally satisfied with the conditions of their 
tenancy, and ask nothing better than its continuance. But, recently, 
the break-up and sale of large estates, and compulsory acquisitions 
of land by pubhc bodies under the Small Holdings Act, have rendered 
the holdings even of the best and most valued tenants insecure. 
In these new circumstances, the demand for another form of com- 
pensation has been revived. It is urged that, in addition to the 
claims already conceded, farmers should be entitled to compensation 
for continuous good farming in excess of the standard which tenants 
are bound to maintain. The proposal bristles with practical 
difficulties. In the tenant's own interest, it is doubtful whether it 
would be wise to impose upon a landlord a new and uncertain burden. 
Wherever an estate is mortgaged, more land would be forced upon 
the market, and in seK-defence every landlord would be driven to 
1 The Reminiscences of Albert Pell (1908), p. 280, 



406 CONCLUSION 

raise rents to their commercial, competitive level, and to reduce his 
expenditure on repairs and improvements. It is also practically 
impossible either to draw any definite line between the tenant's 
common law obligation to farm in a husbandhke manner and the 
continuous good farming which surpasses that standard, or to 
estabhsh any permanent starting-point from which the increase or 
decrease in the letting value of the land, due to the tenant's good or 
bad cultivation, can be accurately measured. For this latter purpose 
it has been suggested that the optional record of condition provided 
by the Agricultural Holdings Act, 1908, might suffice, if made com- 
pulsory. Apart from the difficulty created by the yearly deprecia- 
tion of the value of the evidence, and the expense of keeping it up 
to date by intermediate inventories, the record would be a two- 
edged weapon. Farmers do not press for its introduction with any 
enthusiasm or unanimity. They themselves are probably the best 
judges, whether they will, as a class, gain or lose most by a measure 
of valuation for the deterioration, as well as the improvement of 
their holdings. It would be far more to their advantage that, 
when faced Avith the alternative of bujdng or losing their farms, they 
should be able to obtain from the State on easy terms the whole of 
the money necessary to effect the purchase. If the loan took the 
form of a reducible mortgage, repayable by annual instalments, and 
secured by the right of levying a distress for arrears, there would be 
httle fear of any loss by the lender. No pubhc loan of any magnitude 
would be immediately required for the purpose. Tenants do not 
want to buy so long as they can continue to rent under a good private 
landlord. Unless threatened legislation assumes a form which 
greatly accelerates the present progress of sales, the sum annually 
needed would be small. The funds accumulating in the hands of 
the Insurance Commissioners would supply any demand which 
may reasonably be anticipated. 

The interests of agricultural labourers apparently conflict with 
those of their employers. They want high wages and low prices : 
their employers want high prices and low wages. But the anta- 
gonism shades off into some identity of interest, for low prices mean 
less employment or reduced earnings. Agricultural labourers, like 
landlords and tenant-farmers, suffer from the present political 
uncertainty and its consequences. If an estate is sold and a farm 
changes hands, their employment, their wages, and their homes are 
endangered. Materially, they are without doubt better off than in 



AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS -- 407 

1888, though their conditions are still capable of improvement. 
But their prosperity in 1912 is quite a different kind of prosperity 
from that which they enjoyed in the simpler and more leisured 
eighteenth century. Up to that time, the picture, drawn in the 
first chapter, of Hfe in the self-supporting village still held true in 
many essential features. In remote rural districts, changes were 
slow and few. Suddenly, from 1760 onwards, over the whole 
of society swept the great industrial expansion. Domestic handi- 
craftsmen and small farmers alike were overwhelmed : industry, 
both manufacturing and agricultural, was reorganised on the new 
commercial Hnes which seemed best adapted for the greatest possible 
production at the least possible cost. The completion of the work of 
enclosure destroyed the inherited traditions of the peasantry, their 
ideals, their customs, their habits, their ancestral solutions of the 
problems of life, — all, in fact, that made up the native home-bred 
civihsation of rural England. With the disappearance of the primi- 
tive framework of village life, vanished — for a time at any rate — 
many of the virtues of the class, their independence, pride, frugahty, 
self-control. It is not surprising that for at least half a century they 
should have remained stupefied by the shock, gradually reahsing 
the full meaning of the change, and then either stoHdly acquiescmg 
in their new existence, or impatient to escape on the first opportunity. 
Without a return to an extinct social and industrial system, the old 
conditions cannot be entirely rebuilt for them any more than they 
can be for other classes. The most that can be done is to revive as 
far as possible the best features of a form of life which has passed 
away and cannot be completely restored. 

From 1815, the moral, social, and probably the material, position 
of the agricultural labourer rapidly dechned. He became more and 
more exclusively dependent on money wages, ^ and these, though 
increased by pauper allowances, fell lower and lower every year 
after the peace. The Poor Law of 1834 marks the starting-point in 
the recovery. But the storj^ of the slow steps by which labourers 
have cHmbed from the depths into which they had been plunged is 
a chequered record. For more than thirty years, wages had been sup- 
plemented from the rates, all the year round, whether the recipient 
was employed or not. Men with famihes had received allow- 

' See Appendix X. for weeldy payments in cash. Calculations of agricultural 
wages must always be used with the utmost caution, and merely as general 
approximations to the facts. 



408 CONCLUSION 

ances, at their own homes, proportioned to the number of their 
children. After 1834 parish rehef was only given in workhouses, 
where husband and wife w^ere separated. It was no longer the duty 
of the parish to find work or to provide means of subsistence in aid 
of wages. The change entailed no small degree of suffering, not only 
on the sick and aged, but on the able-bodied. Relatively to the 
demand for labour, there was a superabundant population, which 
the old administration of the Poor Law had encouraged, and the 
disproportion between supply and demand was increased by a 
considerable extension of the use of machinery on the land. Em- 
ployment was hard to get, and wages remained extraordinarily low. 
In the Northern Counties and the Midlands, the great industrial 
expansion and the rapid development of railways relieved the 
pressure. Without their assistance it is doubtful whether the Poor 
Law could ever have been brought into operation. Elsewhere in 
England, migration or emigration seemed the only resource. 

Wages, reduced to a minimum, fluctuated with the rise or fall in 
the prices of necessaries. Years must necessarily pass before the 
glut in the rural labour-market could be absorbed. But the process 
of adjusting the relations between demand and supply was delayed by 
a new form of competition with adult male labour. In the increased 
employment of women and children in the fields, which had become 
a necessity in order to supplement the family income, employers 
found a new supply of labour which to some extent neutraHsed any 
tendency of wages to rise. It was in these circumstances that the 
problem of raising wages by indirect means began to occupy the 
attention of Parhament. Naturally men's minds turned to allot- 
ments, which by their name perpetuate the compensation, often 
sold before the award was signed, allotted to claimants of rights of 
common. In 1796 a society had been formed " for Bettering the 
Condition of the Poor " by means of these field-gardens. In 1819, 
1831, and 1832 Acts of Parliament had been passed enabling the 
Poor Law authorities or the parish to provide parish farms or 
allotments. Sufficient use of these powers had been made to justify 
the Poor Law Commissioners of 1834 in reporting the failure of 
parish farms and the success of allotments. Further evidence was 
offered before the Select Committee on Labouring Poor (Allot- 
ments of Land). Their Report (1843), and those of the Poor Law 
Commissioners (1842-1843), show that the acreage devoted to 
allotments was increasing in most of the agricultural counties, and 



SLOW RISE OF WAGES ^ 409 

that their extension was to the economic and moral advantage of 
the labourer. It was calculated that the net profit from the produce 
of a quarter of an acre of land added 2s. a week to wages. In 
addition to money made, there was money saved. Men spent less 
at the pubHc-house, and were less dependent on the shopkeeper for 
their provisions. Morally there was an added feeUng of independence 
and self-respect. Hard though the men worked after their day's 
labour, their toil was more of a recreation than a task, because it 
was bestowed on land which they themselves occupied. 

In 1846 came the repeal of the Corn Laws. In its first effects, 
Free Trade was not favourable to agricultural labourers. Wages 
were lowered, and food prices did not fall sufficiently to counter- 
balance the loss. In the first impulse of despair at the anticipated 
effects of the loss of Protection, many tenants threw up theh' hold- 
ings. Much land was unlet. Employment became more and more 
difficult to obtain. The years 1849 to 1853, which immediately 
preceded the Crimean War and the era of agricultural prosperity, 
were a period of severe depression. Economy of production was 
necessarily the aim of employers. They naturally applied to their 
own business the Free Trade maxim, '" Buy in the cheapest market ; 
sell in the dearest." More machinery was introduced on the land. 
Small farms were thrown together. There was no diminution in 
the number of women and children employed ; the gang system, 
both public and private, prevailed extensivelj^ in the Eastern 
Counties ; the supply of labour was still largely in excess of the 
demand. The competition of female and child labour continued to 
depress wages. It was not till some control of the gang system was 
estabhshed by the Gangs Act of 1867, and the employment of children 
regulated by the Education Acts of 1870, 1873, and 1876, that 
employers were deprived of the cheapest forms of labour. They 
were, therefore, driven to employ a larger number of adult males. 
But the population of rural districts still remained superabundant, 
in spite of a constant stream of emigration, and wages advanced 
httle and slowly. 

Public opinion was beginning to reahse the unsatisfactory 
position of agricultural labourers. Reports from Medical Officers of 
Health on the food, housing, and sanitary conditions of rural districts 
aroused new feehngs of sympathy. The men themselves began to 
entertain the idea of combining to enforce remedies. Between 1865 
and 1871, in Scotland, Buckinghamshu-e, Hertfordshire, and Here- 



410 CONCLUSION 

fordshire, unions were formed. The ground was thus gradually 
prepared for a movement which, when once started, spread with 
surprising rapidity. On February 7th, 1872, a trade union of 
agricultural labourers was founded at Wellesbourne in Warwickshire 
by Joseph Arch. The tinder was ready, and the spark was struck. 
By the end of the following month, 64 branches had been organised 
in Warwickshire alone. In May a Congress, attended by delegates 
from many parts of the country, was held at Leamington, at which 
the National Agricultural Labourers' Union was formed, and Arch 
elected to be the first president. The prime objects of the new 
organisation were to raise wages, shorten hours, abolish payments in 
kmd, regulate the employment of women and children, increase 
the number of moderately rented allotments. In other respects it 
made a new departure. Up to 1878, trade unions of the ordinary 
type had confined themselves to the improvement of industrial 
conditions. From the first, the Agricultural Union included political 
and social reforms. It demanded not only the parliamentary 
franchise for agricultural labourers, but changes in the land laws, the 
disestabhshment of the Church, enquiries into charitable endow- 
ments, the creation of peasant ownerships. It also introduced new 
wea]3ons which were not employed by trade unions of the industrial 
type. It spent considerable sums of money in transferring labourers 
from congested districts to counties where there was a greater 
demand for labour both on land and in factories. By its aid also, in 
the first nine years of its existence, 700,000 persons emigrated to the 
British Colonies and elsewhere. ^ One feature the Labourers' Union 
shared in common with the trade unions, and with disastrous 
results. It endeavoured to combine with its other objects the work 
of Friendly Societies. But the attempt proved to be beyond its 
powers, and became one of the chief causes of its ultimate coUapse. 
The immediate success of the Labourers' Union was considerable. 
Wages certainly rose, though no statistical evidence can be relied 
on to show the extent of the rise. It must be remembered that the 
better class of workmen had left the poorly-paid districts of the 
South and East, and that employers were asked to pay more money 
for labour which was inferior in quality and less in result, without 
the advantage of the better prices for their produce which were 
obtainable in the industrial centres of the North and Midlands. 

* See the evidence of Joseph Arch before the Agricultural Commission in 
1881, Qu. 58, 422. (Parliamentary Papers, 1882, vol. xiv., p. 51.) 



UNIONS OF AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS 411 

Combination was, therefore, met by combination. Strikes proved 
an ineffective weapon. Employers were able to supply the places 
of the strikers, either from the general labourers who stood outside 
the National Union of Agricultural Labourers, or from the un- 
employed and casually employed population of the towns. In 
July, 1874, after a prolonged struggle of six months, the Union 
suffered a severe defeat. Numbers, as well as funds, began to 
dwindle. Inside the Union there was a spHt. Between it and the 
more recent Federal Union (1873) arose more or less open hostihty. 
The disastrous period of 1875-1884 began to tell on the position of 
labourers, in regard both to amount of wages and to regularity of 
employment. They could no longer maintain their weekly pay- 
ments, and their leaders advised against resistance to reductions. 
Much of the advance in wages which had been gained was lost ; 
but it was through the Union that the parhamentary franchise 
was won. 

Cjniics may say that it was the parhamentary vote which gave 
the labourer his first real step upwards. It made him the most 
important of the three classes which constitute the agricultural 
interest, and, from that moment politicians have tumbled over one 
another in their eagerness to secure his support. Be this as it may, 
there can be no doubt of his substantial progress since 1884. Most 
men of the class are still poorly paid ; many are precariously 
employed and poorly housed ; among aU, poverty is chronic, and, 
though destitution is certainly rare, the dread of it is seldom 
absent. But, speaking generally, labourers in 1912 are better 
paid, more regularly employed, better housed, better fed, better 
clothed. They are better educated and more sober. Their hours 
of labour are shorter. They are secure of a pension for themselves 
and their wives in their old age. Thej^ can, if they choose, make 
then- influence felt in the government of their parish, the admmistra- 
tion of their county, the direction of the affairs of the nation and of 
the empire. Their wives and children are no longer driven by 
necessity to labour in the fields. What more can labourers want ? 
may be impatiently asked by some. Others, conscious that all 
is not yet well, may ask with anxiety — Avhat more can be done ? 

It would be difficult to answer either question. Labourers, as 
individuals, may know what they want. It is generally some 
particular piece of land. But, as a class, they have not formulated 
their general aspirations in definite form : they are conscious of 



412 CONCLUSION 

little more than discontent with a life which for them has lost its 
meaning and with that loss its savour. Yet perhaps a contrast 
between the past and the present conditions of rural villages may 
suggest some sort of answer. Under the old system, some of the 
existing evils prevailed, as well as others which are now removed. 
The village was not Arcadia. Its Ufe was by no means idyUic. In 
one sense, at all events, it was on a lower level then than now. The 
peasant was too absorbed in his own surroundings to care for matters 
outside his own environment. He could rarely read ; he seldom 
thought of anything beyond his daily pursuits ; he had no ideas 
and few opim'ons except on the practical subjects in which he was 
interested. For many years, under the shock of change, the mind 
of the agricultural labourer was even less active and even more 
narrow. His daily work was less varied and more monotonous ; 
he had lost the opportunity of practising the manifold crafts in 
which his grandfather had been occupied ; he toiled exclusively 
for a master, not for himself. He fell into a half-dazed state of 
fatalism. Now this is changing. Labourers read, think, enquire. 
Their minds are awakening and curious for information. They are 
slowly beginning to extend their intellectual horizon beyond their 
own individual misfortunes or advantages, and to understand the 
meaning of economic laws. In this mental development, poUtics, 
honourably handled, and dealing with principles not personaHties, 
might, and should, play an important part. A great responsibility 
rests on writers in the public press and on platform orators. 

The mental change in progress may account for the restlessness. 
It does not by itself explain the discontent. The peasant, under 
the old system, had a defimte independent place in the community. 
He commanded respect for his skill, judgment, and experience in 
his own industries. He was not cut off by any distinctions in ideas, 
tastes, or habits from the classes above. On the contrary, each 
grade shaded almost imperceptibly into the next. To-day, the 
intermediate classes have disappeared. Instead of the ascendmg 
scale of peasant-labourer, the blacksmith, carpenter, wheelwright, 
and carrier, the small-holder, the village shopkeeper, the small 
farmer, the larger farmer, the yeoman occupymg his own land, and 
the squire, there are in many villages only two categories, — employers 
and employed. The gulf is wide enough. It has been broadened 
by the progress of a civilisation which is more and more based on 
the possession of money. All the employing classes have moved on 



ENTIRE DEPENDENCE ON MONEY WAGES 413 

and upwards in wealth, in education, in tastes, in habits, in their 
standard of hving. Except in education, the employed alone have 
stood comparatively still. The sense of social inferiority which is 
thus fostered has impressed the labourer with the feeling that he 
is not regarded as a member of the community, but only as its helot. 
It is from this point of view that he resents, in a half -humorous, 
half-sullen fashion, the kindly efforts of well-meaning patrons to 
do him good, the restrictions imposed on his occupation of his 
cottage, as well as the paraphernaha of policemen, sanitary and 
medical inspectors, school-attendance officers, who dragoon and 
shepherd him into being sober, law-abiding, clean, healthy, and 
considerate of the future of his children. To his mind, it is all 
part of the treatment meted out to a being who is regarded as 
belonging to an inferior race. 

The economic side of the change further accentuates the dis- 
content and adds a practical to the sentimental grievance. The 
peasant worked as hard as, or harder than, his descendant. But 
his industry was more interesting to him, partly because it was more 
manifold, partly because much of it was for himself. He had less 
need of money. Living more on his own produce, he could satisfy 
some of his wants by exchanges in kind. When he had to buy, 
he obtained money either by sale of his own stuff or by working for 
an employer. But to earn weekly wages, or to be in regular employ- 
ment, was not for him an absolute necessity. He was little 
affected by the laws of demand and supply in relation to labour. 
The new commercial system, on the other hand, has made the 
agricultural labourer entirely dependent on employment and 
money wages. Instead of producing much of his own food, he 
has to buy it nearly all. In order to Uve, he must sell his labour 
for cash, and under the stress of new exigencies which hmit his 
power of bargaining. Now, if the labourer loses emplojmient, 
or fails to find it, he has no resource on Avhich to fall back. His 
livelihood, and, in case of tied cottages, his home, depend on a 
week's notice. A change in the ownership or occupation of the land 
on which he works may cut him adrift. Against this uncertainty 
he cannot protect himself. But he may lose his wages in another way, 
and against this he can be partially secured out of his savings. 
For this reason, even his thrift is guided into new channels by the 
commercial spirit which necessarily controls his life. The peasant's 
savings went into the purchase of a pig or a calf, or into some other 



414 CONCLUSION 

form of reproductive investment. They meant a step upwards in 
well-being. But the labourer of to-day saves for a different object. 
His weekly earnings, on which depend his hveUhood and home, are 
aU-important. It is against sickness, therefore, that he tries to 
secure himself by pamful thrift. What he pays for msurance is 
not an investment ; the money that he puts into a Friendly Society 
is not capital which he can ever use. Once paid, it is gone for ever. 
His savings do not in fact help him to put his foot on the ladder of 
prosperity. They only serve to protect his family and himself 
against a possible adversity. The great number of labourers who 
insure in Friendly Societies is a pathetic proof of their total depend- 
ence on weekly earnings and of their haunting dread of the loss of 
wages through sickness. But the popularity of Slate Clubs shows 
their consciousness of the disadvantages of the ordinary insurance. 
By dividmg out at the end of each year, they are at least able to 
secure the use of a portion of their annual savings as capital. 

Under the older system, peasants were rarely without some real 
stake in the agricultural community ; they were not members of 
an isolated class ; they were not exclusively dependent on competi- 
tive wages for their homes and hvelihood ; they were seldom without 
opportunities of bettering their positions ; they had not before them 
the unending vista of a gradual process of physical exhaustion in 
another's service. Under the modern commercial system, the 
conditions from which peasants were generally free are those under 
which the average agricultural labourer Hves, though exceptional 
men may struggle out of their tyramiy. They have no property 
but their labour. Even of that one possession, such are the exigencies 
of their position, they are not the masters. If they fail to sell it 
where they are now hving, or if they lose emplojonent by a change in 
the ownership or occupation of the land on which they work, they 
must move on. Their home is only secure to them from week to 
week. For all wage-earning classes, the modern conditions of 
industry are approximately the same. But in villages they are 
reHeved by few of the compensations which to the eyes of country 
visitors appear to be offered in towns. In money wages, artisans 
are better paid ; they have greater chances of rising to higher rates 
of remuneration ; they have larger facihties for recreation and 
amusement ; so far as then homes are concerned, they are less 
directly under the thumb of their employer ; they belong to a less 
isolated and more numerous class ; they Hve in the midst of a 



ACCESS TO THE LAND AS OWNERS 415 

population which is still minutely graduated in the scale of social 
position ; they have no excuse for imagining that laws of poHce, 
sanitation, health, and school attendance are designed and ad- 
ministered for the vexatious control of their social and domestic 
habits. Agricultural labourers believe that there is life in the towns ; 
they know that in the villages there is none, in which they share as 
a right, or which for them has any meaning. They may be indispens- 
able, but it is only as wheels in another man's mone^'^-making 
machine. 

If the attractions of towns are to be counteracted, and agricul- 
tural labourers lifted from apathy and hopelessness mto contentment 
and activity of interest, a reahty, a purpose, a meaning must be 
given to village hfe. Probably this can only be done effectivel}'' 
by giving labourers readier access to the land, and access as owners. 
Tenancies may to a certain extent produce similar results. They 
may stimulate pride in work, provide variety of interest, offer scope 
for ambition. But the incentive of ownership is incomparably 
stronger. It is true that the Board of Agriculture notices that few 
appHcants for land express a desire to become owners. They 
certainly do not, so long as they must, under the existing law, pay 
a deposit of 20 per cent, of the purchase price, which either absorbs 
their working capital or compels them to begin on borrowed money. 
But experience in the other direction is not entirely wanting. The 
Duke of Bedford's advertisement of seventeen small ownerships at 
Maulden, where no deposit was required, produced upwards of 500 
appHcants. The Small Holdings Act has provided a certain quantity 
of land. But its methods are so faulty, the rents which it requires 
are so high, the interest and instalments charged on such necessary 
improvements as roads are so excessive, that its operations are 
necessarily limited. Moreover, if once the demand under the Act 
was approximately satisfied, the pressure on County Council candi- 
dates for reductions of rent would be so severe as, in all probabihty, 
to result m considerable loss to the ratepayers. Finally, it may be 
observed that appUcants under the Act have been, to a very large 
extent, men who are superior in financial position to those for whose 
benefit the measure was originally designed. Agricultural labourers, 
pure and simple, are generally afraid of the venture, unless they can 
form a co-operative society, from which the stronger men, financially 
and morally, hold themselves aloof. 

It is only by ownership that the atmosphere can be re-created in 



416 CONCLUSION 

which the peasant became part of the land and the land part of 
him. Domestic handicrafts cannot be re\dved ; the old gradation 
of ranks cannot be exactly replaced ; the leisureliness and tran- 
quiUity have passed away for ever in this more crowded and bustling 
age. To a greater extent than before, laws of competitive supply 
and demand must dominate labour and regulate rates of Avages. 
But ladders of thrift and industry may, a\ ith the co-operation of the 
State, be planted in every village by which agricultural labourers 
might still climb upwards, gain a permanent stake in the rural 
community, and escape that exclusive dependence on employment 
and cash earnings which renders their Uvehhood and homes at 
present insecure. But the bottom rung of the ladder must be placed 
low enough. The opportunity of bu5dng a freehold cottage and 
garden appeals to every man, if the annual instalments do not exceed 
the annual rent current in the neighbourhood. The well-intentioned 
and useful restrictions imposed by landlords will probably be at once 
ignored. Lodgers will be taken in, possibly to the detriment of the 
cottage-owner ; pigs and poultry will be kept which may be a 
nuisance to neighbours. Such matters must be left to right them- 
selves. No one minds the smell of his own pigs or the noise of his 
own poultry. Allotments, brought within easy reach and moderately 
rented, should be universally provided, unless the undeveloped land 
duty raises their rent to a prohibitive height, and drives field gardens 
to a distance which renders them comparatively useless. No 
scheme is universally apphcable to every locahty. Small arable 
holdings or even farms may be suitable in some districts. In other 
parts of the country bits of grass land may be of greater value. 
For the addition of the requisite pasture to arable holdings, a 
common, carefully stinted, and regulated by the small owners them- 
selves, as in the case of the Duke of Bedford's scheme at Maulden, 
may prove a useful expedient. In every village such a common, if 
properly managed, would be a boon by increasing the local supply of 
milk, which is scarcer in villages than in towns. 

On economic lines such as these, village life might in time be 
reconstructed, and rntellectuallj^ placed on a higher level than the 
old. To each inhabitant would be offered the prospect of a career 
full of modest possibilities and varied interests. In the home and 
on the soil belonging to their parents, children might gain that love 
of country pursuits which is rarely acquired in later years, and that 
practical handiness in all details of the management of land without 



THE NEW CENTRE OP POWER ^ 417 

which they can never become efficient workers. Agricultural 
labourers are too well aware of what land will or will not do to 
demand an universal system of small holdings. Tenant-farmers 
would, therefore, still hold their own, and, in the supply of more 
effective labour, draw their own special advantages from the re- 
construction of village life. Nor need the means of mental expansion 
be wanting. Co-operative societies for the wholesale purchase and 
retail sale of commodities, credit banks managed by the members 
themselves, approved societies in each village for the conduct of the 
business of national insurance, parish councils freed from the 
tutelage of larger pubUc bodies, might give to the inhabitants new 
and wider opportunities of business training, which would make 
them more intelligent and therefore more useful citizens. 

The centre of power has shifted. It is no longer landowners or 
tenant-farmers, either alone or in combination, who hold the key 
to the rural situation. It is the agricultural labourer. It seems 
inevitable that, in the near future, sacrifices will be asked both from 
owners and occupiers of land. To the existence of both, the main- 
tenance of the principle of private property in land is vital. It is 
on that issue that the battle seems hkely to be fought. The question 
for them to consider is, whether, bj' any reasonable sacrifice, they 
can strengthen their position by estabhshing ownership on a more 
democratic basis, or whether, without material concessions, they 
can successfully defend the existmg system on its merits. For 
both views, something may be said ; for disunion, nothmg. From 
thek own knowledge and experience, agriculturists may unite in 
attempting to guide the movement in directions which may materially 
affect their own position, but will at the same time benefit their 
industry as a whole, and save mtact the prmciple of private property 
in land. If they give no practical lead, the direction of the move- , 
ment seems likely to fall into the hands of reforming theorists, intent 1 
on repeating the time-honoured mistake of applying to agricultural/ 
problems remedies which are only apphcable, if at all, to industrials 
or urban difficulties. To all classes dependent on agriculture the' 
consequences threaten to be disastrous, and, most of all, to agri- 
cultural labourers. In the extreme form of the proposal of the 
theorists, the whole taxation of the country would be ultimately 
thrown upon rent. In order to lighten the fiscal burdens of townsmen, 
agricultural labourers, whether in occupation of the land or not, 
would thus be reduced to a position to which, before the estabhsh- 

2d 



418 CONCLUSION 

ment of British rule, the only parallel was afforded by the Egyptian 
fellaheen. In the modified form of the theory, the added burden on 
land must necessarily mean increased rents, and either reduced 
employment or lowered wages. Whichever form of the theory is 
adopted by a political party, the first step is, according to the 
argument of its advocates, to ascertain the bare unimproved value 
of agricultural land. For the purpose of this enquiry, unfor- 
tunately, the Valuation now in progress would be only a costly 
farce, if it were not also a serious injustice. 



LATIN WRITERS ON AGRICULTURE- 419 



APPENDIX I. 

CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF AGRICULTURAL WRITERS DOWN 

TO 1700. 

BEFORE THE INVENTION OF PRINTING 

Latin Writers on Agriculture. — Cato, Varro, Columella, Palladius. M. 
Catonis Prisci de Re Rustica liber ; JMarcii Terentii Varronis Rerum 
Rusticarum, libri i.-iii. ; Lutii Junii Moderati Columelloe Rei Rusticoe 
Liber Primus — Tertius — Decimus, ed. G. Merula. Palladii Rutilii 
^miliani de Re Rustica liber primus-liber xiii., ed. F. Colucia. Venice 
(1470 ?). 1472. 

[Cato, commonly called the Censor, died b.c. 149. Varro flourished in the 
last century before Christ. Columella, whose agricultural writings are 
the most useful of the four Latin writers, flourished in the flrst century of 
the Christian era. He also wrote a treatise, De Arboribus. Palladius, who 
seems to have written in the fourth century a.d., borrows largely from 
Columella. The above-mentioned book is the first printed edition of any 
part of the Roman writers on Agriculture, though many naanuscripts probably 
existed in the libraries of Enghsh monasteries. Frequent editions were subse- 
quently published abroad, but none apparently in England. 

Translations were also printed abroad, e.g. of Columella into Italian by 
Pietro Lauro (1544), and into French by Charles Cotereau (1555). But none 
seems to have been printed in England till 1725, when Richard Bradley, F.R.S., 
Professor of Botany in the Universitj^ of Cambridge, published his Survey of 
Ancient Husbandry and Gardening collected from Cato, Varro, Columella, etc. 
A manuscript translation of Palladius into English verse belonging to the 
fifteenth century (1420) was edited by Messrs. Lodge and Herrtage, under the 
title of Palladius on Hoabondrie for the Early English Text Society, 1873 
and 1879.] 

Thirteenth Century Manuscripts. — Walter of Henley's Husbandry. Together 
with an anonymous Husbandry, Seneschaucie, and Robert Grosseteste's 
Rules. (Ed. Ehzabeth Lamond. Royal Historical Society, 1890.) 

[It is stated by Mr. Donald M'Donald {Agricultural Writers, 1200 to 
1800 (1908), p. 11) that Walter of Henley's Husbandry was reproduced in 
James Bellot's Booke of Thrifte, 1589. The book does not appear in the 
British Museimi Catalogue. But the Library contains another work by 
James BeUot of Caen, entitled Le Jardin de Vertu, etc. (1581), containing 
extracts in French and English from the " best and wisest books."] 

Gardiner (Mayster Ion). 

The Feate of Gardening. 

[Edited from the original fifteenth century manuscript by the Hon. 
Alicia Amherst (Mrs. Evelyn Cecil), Archoeologia, vol. liv.] 



420 APPENDIX I. 

PRINTED BOOKS. 
Crescentius or Petrus be Crescentiis. (Born 1233 : died 1320.) 

Opus Ruralium Gommodoruni sive de Agricultura. Libri xii. Augsburg, 
1471. 

[This work was translated into Italian, 1478; into French, 1486; into 
German, 1493.] 

Littleton (Sir Thomas). 

Leteltun Tenuris new correcte. 1516. 

[The editio princeps is a folio volume printed by Letton and Machlinia 
without date or title. The work begins : " Tenant en fee simple est," etc. 
Another edition, also without date or title, was published by Machlinia, 
probably later as it contains fewer abbreviations. 

The first dated edition (1516) is in Norman French. The first edition in 
English is published by Berthelet : Lyttilton Tenures truely translated into 
Englysshe, 1538.] 

More (Sir Thomas). 

Lihellus vere aureus, nee minus salutaris quam festivus de optimo rei 
publicae statu, deque nova Insula Utopia. 1516. 

[The first edition of Utopia was printed at Louvain. The book was 
translated into English under the title of A fruiteful, and pleasant worke 
of the beste state of a publyque iveale, and of the newe yle called Utopia, by 
" Ralph Robynson Citizein and Goldsmithe of London," 1551.] 

FiTZHERBERT (JoHN). 

1. The Boke of Husbondrye. 1523. 
" Here begynneth a newe tracte or treatyse mooste pf table for all 

husbade men." 

[Book of Husbandry, ed. W. W. Skeat. English Dialect Society, 1882.] 

2. The Boke of Surueyeng and Improuvemets. 1523 
" Here begynneth a ryght frutefull mater : and hath to name the boke 

of surueyeng and improuvemets." 

Benese (Richard), " channon of Merton Abbey besyde London." 

This boke sheweth the maner of lande, as well of woodlande, as of lande in 
thefelde, and comptynge the true nombre of acres of the same, etc. 1537. 

Turner (William). 

Libellus de Re Herbaria Novus, in quo hcrbarum aliquot nomina greca, 
latina, <fc Anglica habes, etc. 1538. 

[The first English version was entitled The names of herbes in Oreke, 
Latin, Englishe, Duche and Frenche, wyth the commune names that Herbaries 
and Apotecaries use. Gathered by William Turner. 1548. 

The second edition of the work appeared as A new Herball, wherin are 
conteyned the names of Herbes in Oreke, Latin, etc. etc. 1551.] 

S. (W.) or Hales (John). 

The Compendious or briefe Examination of certayne ordinary complaints 
of divers of our countrymen in these our times. 1549. 

[First printed in 1581 but edited (1893) from the MS. of 1549 by 
Elizabeth Lamond.] 

DiGGEs (Leonard). 

A Book named Tectonicon, briefly shelving the exact measuring and spedie 
reckoning all maner of Land, Square Timber, etc. 1656. 

[This book continued to be republished at intervals till the close of the 
seventeenth century : e.g. 1634, 1637, 1656, 1692.] 



AGRICULTURAL WRITERS, 1557-77 421 

TussER (Thomas). 

A hundreth good pointes of husbandrie. 1557. 

Subsequently amplified into 
Fine hundreth good Pointes of Husbandry, united to as many of good 
Huswifery. 1573. 

Blundevtlle (Thomas). 

1. A newe booke containing the arte of ryding and breakynge greate horses, etc. 
[Translated from the Italian of F. Grisone.] 1560. 

2. The fower chief yst offices belonging to Horsemanshippe. That is to saye, 
the office of the Breeder, of the Rider, of the Keper, and of the Ferrer, etc. 

1565 and 1566. 
[Parts i. and ii. are vmdated : Parts iii. and iv. are dated 1565 and 
1566 respectively. Part ii. consists of a revised edition of the translation 
of Grisone's Arte of Ryding.] 

Hill (Thomas). 

The proffitable Arte of Oardeninge, etc. . . . To this annexed two proper 
treatises, the one entitled The merueilous gouernmente . . . of the Bees 
. . . And the other, the yearly cojectures meete for husbandmen to knowe. 
Englished by Thomas Hyll. 1568. 

[In the edition of 1572 appears the following addition : Wherunto is 
newly added a treatise of the Arte of Graffing and planting of Trees.] 

Hebesbach (Conbad). 

Rei Rusticae libri quatuor. Cologne, 1570. 

Mascall (Leonard). 

1. A Book of the Art and Manner how to graff and plant all sortes of Trees 
etc. 1572. 
[The book is mainly a translation from the French, with certain Dutch 

practices added, and is described as being " set forth and Englished " 
by L(eonard) M(ascall). It was published in the latter half of the seven- 
teenth century under the title of The Country-Mans new Art of Planting 
and Graffing, etc. 1652.] 

2. The Husbandlye Ordring and Governmcnte of Poultrie Practised by the 
Learnedste, and such as have bene knowne skilfuUest in that Arte and in 
our tyme. 1581. 

3. The first Booke of Cattell : Wherein is shewed the gouernment of Oxen, 
Kine, Calues, etc. : The Second booke entreating of Horses, etc. : the Third 
booke entreating of the ordering of Sheepe and Goates, Hogges and Dogges, 
etc. 1591. 
[The edition of 1596 seems to have been the third edition of this work. 

The book was often repubUshed under the title of The Government of 
Cattell. In the latter half of the seventeenth century, it was edited and 
" enlarged " by Richard Ruscam, Gent., and published (1680) under the 
title of The Countreymans Jewel.] 

Scot (Reynolde). 

A Perfite platforme of a Hoppe Garden, and necessarie Instructions for the 
making and mayntenaunce thereof, etc. 1574. 

Malbie (Nicholas). 

A plaine and easie way to remedie a horse that is foundered in his feate, 
etc. 1576. 

GooGE (Barnabe). 

Foure Bookes of Husbandrie, collected by M. Conradus Heresbachius. . . . 
Newely Englished and increased by B(amabe) G(ooge), Esquire. 1577 



422 APPENDIX I. 

Harrison (William). 

An historicall description of the Island of Britayne, etc. 1577. 

Leigh (Valentine). 

The Moste Profitable and commendable Science of Surveying of Landes, 
etc. 1577. 

E. (R.) 

A Discourse of Hou^ebandrie. . . . Declaryng how by the Housebandrie, 
or rather the Housewiferie of Hennes, etc. 1580. 

[This is a translation of the Discours Oeconomique. . . . Monstrant 
comme de cinq cens liures pour une fois employees Von peult tirer par 
an quatre ml cinq cens liures de proffict honneste, etc., by Prudent Le 
Choyselat. 1572.] 

Partridge (John). 

The Treasurie of Commodious Conceites and hidden Secrets. Commonly 
called. The Good Huswives Closet of provision for the health of her household. 

4th ed. 1584. 

EsTiENNE (Charles) and Liebault (Jean). 

L' Agriculture et Maison Rustique. 1586. 

[Estienne's Proedium Rusticum appeared in 1554. From the French 
version, the book was translated by Richard Surfleet under the title of 
Maison Rustique, or the Countrie Farme, 1600. It was also published 
by Gervase Markham in 1616.] 

Bellot (James). 

The BooTce of Thrift, conteyning a perfite order and right manner to profile 
lands and other things belonging to Husbandry. 1589. 

[Bellot's work is added on the authority of D. M'Donald's Agricultural 
Writers, 1200 to 1800.] 

Markham (Gervase). 

1. Discourse on Horsemanshippe, etc. 1593. 

2. How to Chuse, Ride, Traine, and Diet, both Hunting Horses and running 
Horses, etc. 1599. 

3. Cavalarice : or. The English Horseman, contayning all the Arte of Horse- 
manship, as much as is necessary for any man to understand, whether he 
be Horse-breeder, horse-ryder, horse-hunter, horse-runner, horse-ambler, 
horse-farrier, horse-Keeper, Coachman, Smith, or Sadler, etc. 1607. 

4. The Husbandman's Faithful Orchard, etc. The Whole Art of Husbandry 
contained in Foure Bookes, viz. i. Of the Farme or Mansion House, etc. 
ii. Of Gardens, Orchards and Woods. Hi, Of Breeding, Feeding, and 
Curing of all manner of Cattle, iv. Of Poultrie, Fowle, Fishe, and 
Bees, etc. 1608. 

5. Countrey Contentments ; or, the Husbandman' s Recreations, in two 
bookes, etc. 1611. 
[In the 1615 edition, two new treatises were added; "the second 

intituled. The English Huswife" was subsequently (1638) issued as a 
separate work, " edited " by Countess De la Warr.] 

6. The English Husbandman, drawne into Two Bookes, and each Booke into 
Two Parts, etc. 1613. 

7. Cheape and Good Husbandry, etc. 1614. 
8 Maison Rustique ; or, the Countrey Farme, etc. 1616. 
9. Markham' 8 Farewell to Husbandry. 1620. 



AGRICULTURAL WRITERS, 1593-97- 423 

10. Markam/s Maister-Peece. 1623. 

11. The Inrichment of the Weald of Kent : or a Direction to the Husband-man 
for the true ordering, manuring, and inriching of all Grounds vnthin the 

Wealds of Kent and Sussex, etc. 1625. 

12. A Way to Get Wealth, etc. 1628. 

13. The Art of Archerie, etc. 1634. 

14. The Pleasures of Princes, or. Good Men's Recreations, etc. 1635. 
[The number of books, new, or revised, or republished under different 

titles, to which Markham put his name, makes it difficult to verify all of 
them at the present day. His different publishers in the seventeenth 
century were equally puzzled as to their properties in his works, if, as is 
stated, he was in 1617 compelled to sign the following memorandmn : 
" Mem. — That I, Gervase Markham, of London, gent., do hereby promise 
hereafter never to write any more book or bookes to be printed of the 
diseases of any cattle, horse, ox, or cow, sheep, swine or goats. In witness 
whereof I have hereunto set my hand the 24th dale of July, 1617, Gervase 
Markham."] 

SOUTHERNE (EdMUND). 

A Treatise concerning the right use and ordering of Bees, etc. 1593. 

Plat or Platt (Sir Hugh). 

1. The Jewel House of Art and Nature : Conteining divers rare and profit- 
able inventions, together with sundry new experiments in the Art of Hus- 
bandry, etc. 1594. 

2. Sundrie New and Artificial Remedies against Famine. . . . Written 
by H. P. Esq., uppon the occasion of this present Dearth. 1596. 

3. The New and admirable Arte of setting of Come, etc. 1600. 

4. Delightes for Ladies, to adorne their Persons, Tables, Closets and die- 
tillatories, etc. 1602. 

5. Floraes Paradise, beautified . . . with sundry sorts of delicate fruites 
and flowers, etc. 1608. 
[Under its subsequent title of The Garden of Eden, etc., this book was 

one of the most popular works on horticulture among seventeenth centmy 



NoRDEN (John). 

1. Speculum Britannioe. The first parte. An historicall . . discription 
of Middlesex. 1593. 

2. SpecuU Britannioe Pars. Essex described (1594). [Published by the 
Camden Society in 1840 from the manuscript.] 

3. SpecuU Britannioe Pars. The description of Hartfordshire. 1598. 

4. The Surveiors Dialogue, very profitable for all men to peruse, but especially 
for Gentlemen, Farmers, and Husbandmen, that either shall haue occasion or 
be willing to buy, hire, or sell Lands, etc. Divided into five books. 1607. 
[A sixth book was added, 1618, "of a familiar conference, betweene 

a Purchaser, and a Surveyor of Lands, etc."] 

5. SpecuU Britannioe Pars Altera : or, a delineation of Northampton- 
shire. 1610. 

Gerarde (John). 

The Herball, or, Generall Historic of Plantea, 1597, 



424 APPENDIX I. 

Manwood (John). 

A Treatise and Discourse of the Lawes of the Forrest. 1598. 

[An earlier edition, A brief e collection of the Lawes of the Forest, was 
printed for private circulation in 1592.] 

DuBBAVius (Janus), Bishop of Olmtttz. 

A New Booke of Good Husbandry. . . . Conteining the order and maner 
of making of Fish-pondes, etc. Translated into EngUsh at the speciaU 
request of George Churchey. 1599. 

Unknown. 

God Spede the Plough. 1601. 

Maxey (Edward). 

A new Instuction (sic) of plowing and setting of come, handled in manner 

of a Dialogue betweene a Ploughman and a Scholler. 1601. 

[The author would be happy with " A little land well tild, a little 

house well fild, a little wife well wild."] 

Trigge (Francis). 

The Humble Petition of Two Sisters : the Church and the Commonwealth. 

1604. 
BtJTLER (Charles). 

Feminine Monarchic ; or, a treatise concerning Bees. 1609. 

[The edition of 1634 is written in English spelt as it is spoken. It may 
have been the difficulties of phonetic spelhng which prompted its transla- 
tion into Latin under the title of Monarchia Foem,inina, sive Apum 
Historia, 1673.] 

Vaughan (Rowland). 

Most approved and long experienced Water Workes. Containing the manner 
of Winter and Summer drowning of Medow & pasture. 1610. 

FOLKINGHAM (WiLLIAM). 

Feudigraphia. The Synopsis, or. Epitome of Surveying Modernised. 1610. 
Standish (Arthur). 

1. The Commons^ Complaint. Wherein is contained two speciall Grievances. 
The first is the generall destruction and waste of ^¥ood8 in this Kingdome. 
. . . The second Grievance is the extreame dearth of Victuals, etc. 1611. 

2. New Directions of Experience to the Commons Complaint, etc. 1613. 

Chttrton (R.). 

An olde Thrift Newly Revived, wherein is Declared the Manner of Planting, 
Preserving, and Husbanding Yong Trees. . . . Discoursed in a Dialogue 
betweene a Surveyour, Woodward, Gentleman, and a Farmer, etc. 1612. 

[This work is inserted on the authority of Donald M'Donald's Agri- 
cultural Writers. It does not appear to be in the Catalogue of the 
British Museum.] 

Rathborne (Aaron). 

The Surveyor, in four bookes. 1616. 

Reyce (Robert). 

Breviary of Suffolk. 1618. 

[Edited from the manuscript by Lord F. Hervey, 1902.] 
Lawson (William). 

A new Orchard and Garden. 1618. 



AGRICULTURAL WRITERS, 1629-4^ 425 

C. (H.) 

A Discourse concerning the Drayning of Fennes. 1629. 

Levett (John). 

Orderinge of Bees. 1634. 

Calthorpe (Charles). 

The Relation between a Lord of a Mannor and a Copyholder, his Tenant. 

1635. 
[In the 1656 edition of Sir Edward Coke's Compleate Copyholder this 
work is "newly added."] 

Powell (Robert). 

Depopulation Arraigned. 1636. 

Grymes (Thomas). 

The Honest and Plaine dealing Farrier, or a present remedy for curing 
diseases and hurts in horses. 1636, 

Crawshey (John). 

The Countryman's Instructor. 1636. 

Remnant (Richard). 

A Discourse on Bees, whereunto is added the causes and cure of blasted wheat, 
hops, rye, and fruit. Together with the causes of smutty wheat. 1637. 

De Gray or De Grey (Thomas). 

The Compleat Horseman and expert Ferrier. 1639. 

[The first edition contains an equestrian portrait of Charles I. on his horse 

Edgar. This was omitted in the editions under the Commonwealth.] 
Plattes (Gabriel). 

1. A Discovery of infinite Treasure, hidden since the World's beginning, 
etc. 1639. 
[The book, with subsequent additions, was republished under the title 

of Practical Husbandry Improved : or, A Discovery, etc.] 

2. Recreatio Agriculturae. 1640. 

3. The Profitable Intelligencer, etc. 1644. 

4. Observations and Improvements in Husbandry. 1653. 

5. The Countreyman's Recreation. 1654. 
[2, 4 and 5 are added on the authority of Donald M'Donald, op. cit.'] 

Coke (Sir Edward). 

The compleate Copyholder, etc. 1641. 

Best (Henry). 

Farming and Account Books. 1641. 

[These records were printed by the Sirrtees Society (vol. xxxiii., 1857), 

under the title of Rural Economy in Yorkshire in I64I, being the Farming 

and Account Books of Henry Best.] 

L. (J.) 

A Discourse concerning the great benefit of drayning and embanking. 1641 
Vermuyden (Sir Cornelius). 

Discourse touching the Draining of the Great Fennes, etc. 1642. 

BURRELL (AnDREWES). 

Briefe Relation Discovering Plainely the True Causes why the Great Levell 
of Fenes . . . have been drowned. 1642. 



426 APPENDIX I. 



Weston (Seb Richard). 

A Discours of Husbandrie used in Brabant and Flanders. 1645. 

[This treatise, left in manuscript by Weston to his sons as a Legacy, 
was piratically printed by Samuel Hartlib in 1650. The date of publica- 
tion is given as 1605 ; but from Hartlib 's unctuous dedication of the 
work to " The Right Honorable the Council of State," that date is 
obviously wrong. The title-page runs as follows : A Discours of Husband- 
rie used in Brabant and Flanders ; shewing the wonderfull improvement of 
Land there ; and serving as a pattern for our practice in this COMMON- 
WEALTH. London, Printed by William Du-Gard, Anno Dom. 1605. 
Harthb republished the Discourse in the following year as His Legacie.] 

Haktlib (Samuel). 

1. Samuel Hartlib His Legacie ; or An Enlargement of the Discourse of 
Husbandry used in Brabant and Flaunders ; Wherein are bequeathed to the 
Common-wealth of England more Outlandish and Domestick Experiments 
and Secrets in reference to Universall Husbandry. 1651. 
[This is a reprint and not an enlargement of Weston's work. It contains 

nothing by Hartlib, except some Prefaces, which are not conspicuous for 
honesty or sincerity. It consists of extracts from a number of letters 
addressed to Harthb, and in particular of a " Large Letter " by Robert 
Child, who signs his full name for the fu-st time in the edition of 1655.] 

2. The Reformed Husband-man ; or a brief Treatise of the Errors, Defects, 
and Inconveniences of our English Husbandry, etc. 1651. 
[This is not by Hartlib himself. It was " Imparted some years ago " 

to him, " And now by him re-imparted to all ingenuous English-men," 
etc. It is often bound up with the Legacy.] 

3. An Essay for Advancement of Husbandry-Learning : or Propositions 
for the errecting Colledge of Husbandry, etc. 1651. 
[This treatise is probably not by Harthb but possibly by Cressy 

Dymoek, or by Gabriel Plattes, who in his Discovery had suggested a 
" Colledge for Inventions in Husbandry."] 

4. A Discoverie for Division or Setting out of Land, as to the best Form. 
PubUshed by Samuel Hartlib Esquire, for Direction ... of the Ad- 
venturers and Planters in the Fens, etc. 

Blith (Walter). 

The English Improver ; or, a New Survey of Husbandry. 1649. 

Republished in an enlarged form as 

The English Improver Improved, or the Survey of Husbandry Surveyed. 1652. 

Winstanley (Jerrard). 

A Letter to the Lord Fairfax. . . . Proving it an undeniable Equity That 
the common People ought to dig, plow, plant, and dwell upon the Commons, 
without hiring them or paying Rent to any. 1649. 

Halhead (Henry). 

Inclosure Thrown Open, etc. 1650. 

Leybottrn (William). 

Planometria : or the Whole Art of Surveying of Land. By Oliver Wallinby. 

1650. 
[Republished with the author's name in 1653 as The Com/pleat Surveyor.'] 

Taylor (Sylvantjs). 

Common Oood : or the Improvement of Commons, Forrests, and Chases, 
by Inclosure, etc. 1652, 



AGRICULTURAL WRITERS, 1653-61 427 

G. (E.) 

Waste Land Improvement ; or. Certain Proposals, etc. 1653. 

[" Robberies, thefts, burglaries, rapes, and murders receive their 
nourishment and encouragement" from the wastes lying unenclosed.] 

Moore (Adam), 

Bread for the Poor. . . . Promised by Enclosure of the Wastes and Common 
Grounds of England. 1653. 

Moore (John). 

The Crying Sin of England of not caring for the Poor, wherein Inclosure is 
. . . arraigned, convicted, and condemned by the Word of God, etc. 1653. 
[This tract is answered by " Pseudomisius " in Considerations concerning 
commonflelds and inclosures . . . partly to answer some passages in 
another discourse ... by Mr. J. M., under this title The Crying Sinne of 
England, etc. 1654.] 

Austin (Ralph). 

A Treatise of Fruit Trees. 1653, 

Mathew (Francis), 

1. Of the opening of Rivers for Navigation the Benefit exemplified by the Two 
Avons of Salisbury and Bristol, etc. 1653. 

2. A Mediterranean Passage by Water Between the two Sea Towns Lynn 
db Yarmouth, etc. 1656. 

3. A Mediterranean Passage by Water from London to Bristol, etc. 1670. 

Lee (Joseph). 

Ei'ra^ia tov ' Ay pov: or a Vindication of a Regulated Enclosure. 1656, 

[To this work and to " Pseudomisius," John Moore replied in A Scripture 
Word against Inclosure, viz. such as doe un-people townes and un-corne 
fields, etc. (1656), To this, "Pseudomisius" replies in A Vindication of 
the Considerations concerning Commonflelds and Inclosures ; or, a Rejoynder 
unto that Reply which Mr. Moore hath pretended to make unto those Con- 
siderations (1656).] 

B[eale] (J.), 

Herefordshire orchards, a pattern for all England. Written in an 
epistolary address to S, Hartlib, Esq, 1657, 

Sha (J,), 

Certaine Plaine and Easie Demonstrations of divers easie wayes and 
meanes for the improving of any manner of barren land, etc, 1657, 

Cavendish (William), Marquis and Duke of Newcastle, 

1, Methode et Invention Nouvelle de dresser les Chevaux, etc, 1658. 

2. A New Method and Extraordinary Invention to Dress Horses, etc. 1667, 
Speed (Adolphus), 

Adam out of Eden ; or. An abstract of divers excellent Experiments touching 
the advancement of Husbandry. 1659, 

DucKETT (Thomas), 

Proceedings concerning the improvement of all manner of land. 1659. 

Stevenson (Matthew), 

The Twelve Moneths ; or, a discourse of every action proper to each particular 
Moneth. 1661, 



428 APPENDIX I. 

Miles (Abraham). 

The Countryman's Friend and no . . . Mountebank, etc. 1662. 

Atwell (George). 

The Faithfull Surveyor, etc. 1662. 

DuGDALE (Sir William). 

The History of Imbanking and Draining. 1662. 

FoRTREY (Samuel). 

England's Interest considered in the Increase of Trade. 1663. 

[The author argues in favour of enclosures, mainly on the ground that 

they enable occupiers to apply the land to the use for which it is best 

suited.] 

Yarranton (Andrew). 

1. The Great Improvement of Lands by Clover, or the Wonderful Advantage 
by right management of Clover. 1663. 

2. England's Improvement by Sea and Land, etc. 1677. 

Strangehopes (Samuel). 

A Book of Knowledge, in Three Parts. The first, containing a brief in- 
troduction to astrology. , . . The second, a treatise of physick. . . . The 
third, the countryman's guide to good husbandry. 1663. 

[In the 1696 edition a fourth part is added under the title of "the 
wheel of fortune."] 

Evelyn (John). 

1. Sylva ; or, a Discourse of Forest Trees. 1664. 

2. Terra ; a Philosophical Discourse of Earth, relating to the Culture and 
Improvement of it for Vegetation, etc. 1675. 

3. Pomona : a Discourse concerning Cyder. 1679. 

FoRSTER (John), 

England's Happiness increased ; or a sure and easie remedie against all 
succeeding dear years ; by a plantation of the roots called Potatoes. 1664. 

Rea (John). 

Flora : seu de Florum Cultura. Or a complete Florilege, furnished with 
all requisites belonging to a florist. In III books. 1665. 

[A second engraved title-page reads Flora, Ceres, and Pomona. Editions 
were also published in 1676 and 1702.] 

Hughes (William). 

The Compleat Vineyard, etc. 1665. 

WoRLiDGE (John). 

1. Sy sterna Horticulturoe, etc. 1667. 

2. Systema Agriculturoe : The Mystery of Husbandry discovered. 1669. 

3. Treatise of Husbandry, etc. 1675. 

4. Vinetum Britannicum ; or the Treatise on Cyder. 1676. 

5. Apiarium ; or a Discourse on Bees. 1676. 

6. The Most Easie Method for Making Cyder. 1687. 

B[algrave] (J[oseph]). 

The Epitome of Husbandry. Comprising all necessary directions for the 
improvement of it. 1669. 

[Other editions were published in 1670, 1675, 1685. The book is based 
on Fitzherbert's Book of Husbandry.] 



AGRICULTURAL WRITERS, 1670-7T 429 

Reeve (Gabriel). 

Directions left by a Gentleman to his sonns ; for the Improvement of Barren 

and Heathy Land, etc. 1670. 

[This is to a great extent a repetition of Sir Richard Weston's Discours.l 

Ray (John). 

Catalogus Plantarum Anglioe. 1670. 

Meager (Leonard). 

1. The English Gardener ; or, a sure guide to young planters, and gardeners, 
in three parts, etc. 1670. 

[The tenth edition of this book was published in 1704.] 

2. The Mystery of Husbandry : or, arable, pasture and woodland improved, 
etc. 1697. 

Smith (John). 

1. England'' s Improvement Revived ; in a Treatise of all manner of Hus- 
bandry <fc Trade by Land and Sea, etc. Experienced in thirty years 
Practice, and digested into six Books. 1670. 

2. Profit and Pleasure United ; or, the Husbandman's Magazine, etc. 1704. 
[It is uncertain whether the John Smith who wrote England's Improve- 
ment Revived, was also the J. Smith, Gent., who wrote Profit and Pleasure 
United. The two works have been attributed to the same author ; but 
probably they were by different writers.] 

Hakward (Michael). 

The Herds-man s Mate ; Or, a Guide for Herdsmen, etc. 1673. 

Haines (Richard). 

The Prevention of Poverty, 1674. 

[A plea for the extended cultivation of flax and hemp. Haines wrote 
several tracts for the improvement of the woollen and linen manu- 
factures. He was answered by ' Philo-Anglicus ' in Bread for the Poor, 
etc., 1678.] 

Cotton (Charles). 

The Planters Manual : being Instructions for the . . . Cidtivating all sorts 
of Fruit-Trees, whether stone-Fruits or Pepin-Fruits, etc. 1675. 

[By the author of the Dialogue in the Compleat Angler.] 

Mace (Thomas). 

Profit, Conveniency, and Pleasure, to the Whole Nation, Being a Short 
Rational Discourse . . . concerning the Highways of England. 1675. 

MOELLENBROCK (V. A.). 

Cochlearia Curiosa ; or, the Curiosities of Scurvy Grass. Englished by 
Thomas Shirley. 1676. 

Lambert (James). 

The Countryman's Treasure ; shewing the Nature, Cause, and Cure of all 
Diseases incident to Cattel, etc. 1676. 

Cook (Moses). 

The manner of raising, ordering, and Improving Forrest-Trees. 1676. 

Lawrence (Anthony) and Beale (John). 

Nurseries, Orchards, Profitable Gardens, and Vineyards encouraged in 

several letters out of the country Directed to Henry Oldenburg Esq. 

Secretary to the Royal Society. 1677. 



430 APPENDIX I. 

Plot (Robert). 

A Natural History of Oxfordshire. 1677. 

RusDEN (Moses). 

A Further Discovery of Bees. Treating of the Nature, Government, Genera- 
tion and Preservation of the Bee, etc. 1677. 
[Rusden was Beemaster to Charles II., to whom the work is dedicated.] 

Unknown. 

A Treatise of Wool and Cattel. In a letter Written to a Friend occasion'd 
upon a Discourse concerning the great Abatements of Rents, and the low Value 
of Lands, etc. 1677. 

Houghton (John), F.R.S. 

A Collection of Letters for the Improvement of Husbandry and Trade. 

1681-83 and 1691-1703. 
[The materials collected by Houghton were rearranged and republished 
in 4 vols, in 1727 by Richard Bradley, F.R.S.] 

Moore (Sib Jonas), F.R.S. 

1. History or Narrative of the Great Level of the Fens, etc. 1685. 

2. England's Interest : or the Gentleman and Farmer's Friend. 1703. 
Blome (Richard). 

The Gentleman's Recreation. 1686. 

Unknown. 

England's Iinprovement and Seasonable Advice, etc. 1691. 

Bellers (John). 

Proposal for Raising a College of Industry of all useful Trades and Husbandry 

etc. 1696. 

Mather (William). 

Of repairing and mending of Highways. 1696. 

Donaldson (James). 

Husbandry Anatomized, or, an Enquiry into the present manner of Tilling 
and Manuring the Ground in Scotland for most Part, etc. 1697. 

Unknown. 

The Husbandman, Farmer and Grasier's Compleat Instructor. By A. S. 
Gent. 1697. 

[Sometimes attributed to Adolphus Speed on account of the initials 
A. S. As Speed died nearly forty years before the publication, it might be, 
on tliis argument only, equally easy to assign the authorship to Adam 
Smith.] 

NouRSE (Timothy), 

Campania Foelix ; or, a Discourse of the Benefits and Improvements of 
Husbandry, etc. • 1700. 

Tryon (Thomas), pseud. " Philotheos Physiologus. " 

The Country-man' s Companion ; or, A new Method of ordering Horses & 
Sheep so as to preserve them both from Diseases and Casualties. 1700. 



MEDIAEVAL RATES ^ 431 



APPENDIX II. 

THE POOR LAW FROM 1601 TO 1834. 

The Poor Law suggests two distinct lines of enquiry — (1) the collection of 
the funds for Poor Relief ; (2) the expenditure of the money when collected. 
In other words, there are two questions — how was the money raised ? and 
how was it spent ? Only a slight outline of the complicated subject can 
be here attempted. 

1. The Collection op the Funds for Poor Relief. 

A variety of rates, statutory or otherwise, were collected in mediaeval 
times. Fixed sums were required for various purposes, and their pay- 
ment was locally apportioned to individuals in each district or parish according 
to their ability to pay. Some of the rates were assessed on particular persons 
in proportion to the benefits they individually received : some were raised 
for purposes of more general utility on all the inhabitants of the wider areas 
which were benefited by the expenditure. Some originated in feudal tenures. 
A part of the national taxes even was raised as a local rate. Thus the sub- 
sidies granted to the Crown under the name of " tenths and fifteenths " were 
apportioned in fixed sums to the inhabitants of each district. A tenth of 
the capital value of the movables in cities, boroughs, and ancient demesnes, 
and a fifteenth of movables in the rest of the country, were thus raised. In 
1334, a searching inquisition was made, in order to levy the tax with the 
utmost accuracy and precision. The assessment of this year remained for 
nearly two centiu-ies the basis of future demands. Till the reign of Henry VII., 
when another elaborate assessment was made, the grant of tenths and 
fifteenths meant a grant of the sums produced and apportioned in 1334. On 
this basis was also levied money needed for many purposes of local govern- 
ment, not covered by other rates. The required sums, represented by some 
fraction of the valuation of 1334, were apportioned direct upon the con- 
tributors, according to their estimated ability to pay. As guides to relative 
means, records were kept in which were entered the size of the houses in 
which contributors lived, or the acreage of the land that they farmed. In 
effect these records resembled valuation lists. Their existence possibly 
facihtated the eventual transfer of liability from inhabitants in respect of the 
income which they enjoyed from all sources to persons in respect of the 
annual value of the immovable property that they occupied. 

The history of the origin of Poor Rates is, however, entirely different from 
that of other rates, although, when once the contribution to the funds for 
poor relief became a legal liability, they naturally were infiuenced by the 
characteristics of the rates already in existence. 

The indigent, in early times, were reheved by personal charity, which 
religion enforced as a Christian duty. The contribution of money for the 
poor was an exercise of the will, measured in amount by the means of the 



432 APPENDIX II.— POOR LAW 

giver. It was a moral income-tax from which no person escaped, according 
to his ability and substance. Whether the payment was urged as a Christian 
obhgation, or enforced as a duty which no one had the right to refuse, or 
demanded by the civil power as a legal liability, it preserved this universal 
character, universal both as to persons and as to sources of income. 

Gradually the optional charity passed into compulsory alms-giving, and 
finally into local taxation. Because this last stage was reached in the latter 
years of the reign of Ehzabeth, it is usual to say that the Poor Law dates 
from 1601. In principle there was undoubtedly an important change. But 
in practice it had come to matter little whether the universal obligation to 
contribute, which attached to all persons according to their ability, was 
enforced by religious, or by legal, penalties. For agriculturists, the really 
serious change came later, when the universal income-tax raised from all 
inhabitants became a rate levied upon occupiers in proportion to the annual 
value of the immovable property which they occupy. It grew still more 
important, when practically all other rates were levied according to the annual 
value of property rateable to the Poor Rate. 

The charitable relief of the poor was never a national, but always a local 
burden. Hence some law of settlement was necessary. When in 1388 
(12 Ric. II. c. 7) " beggars impotent to serve " were confined to the places 
where they happened to be at the passing of the Act, local provision was 
obviously needed for their support. For a time, the alms of the faithful 
provided adequate funds. When, however, not only " beggars impotent to 
serve," but " valiant vagabonds," and " able-bodied vagrants " were saddled 
on their birthplace or last permanent abode,^ their maintenance imposed a 
heavy burden on parochial charity. Voluntary effort begins to flag and 
compulsion to be applied. The machinery is still the alms-box ; the donors 
are still all inhabitants according to their general ability. But if any parish 
fails to provide sufficient funds to succour the impotent poor, or to keep 
" stiu-dy vagabonds and vahant beggars " to continual labom-, the defaulting 
parish was to forfeit 20s. a month.- 

Charity did not, however, provide the whole funds. In the legislation of 
Edward VI. a distinction begins to be drawn between the actual support 
of the poor and the expenses incidental to their maintenance. Thus the 
money administered in direct relief was still to be raised by charitable dona- 
tions. But the costs of removing the poor to their birthplace or last permanent 
abode, or the initial siuns expended in providing " convenient houses " for 
the impotent,^ or the expenses of building Houses of Correction,* are to be 
compulsorily raised by means of existing methods of taxation. 

The growing burden of poor relief, the inadequacy of the voluntary prin- 
ciple, perhaps, also, the relaxation of any sense of the moral obligation of 
charity, are shown in Elizabethan legislation. ALms-giving is abandoned 
for compulsory provision. In the Act of 1572 (14 Eliz. c. 5) the volimtary 
principle of charity survives only in name. The justices are to munber the 
poor, calculate the weekly siuns required for their support " by their good 
discretions," tax and assess " all and every inhabitant," register the names 
of the taxpayers, and the amoimt of their taxation, appoint collectors, as well 
as overseers of the poor. If any person, thus taxed and assessed, " obstinately 
refuses to give towards the help and relief of the poor," or " wilfully dis- 
com-ages others from so charitable a deed," he is to be brought before two 
justices, and conunitted to gaol until he is " contented " with their order. 
Finally, in 1597 (39 Eliz. c. 3) the appeal to charity is practically thrown 

^E.g. 19 Hen. VII. c. 12 (1503-4) ; 22 Hen. VIII. c. 12 (1530-1). 

2 27 Hen. VIII. c. 25 (1535-6). 

3 1 Ed. VI. c. 3 (15-17), and 3 and 4 Ed. VI. c. 16 (1549). 
nSEliz. c. 3(1575-6). 



THE ACT OF 1601 433 

aside altogether. The churchwardens, and four " substantial householders, 
to be called overseers of the poor," are empowered to raise the necessary 
funds by taxation of " every inhabitant and every occupier of lands " in the 
parish, " according to the abihty of the same parish." If anyone refuses to 
contribute as he is assessed, distress is to be levied, and in default of distress 
imprisonment is to be inflicted. The better known Act of 1601 (43 Eliz. c. 2) 
is a repetition of its predecessor, except that it gives a more precise definition 
of the sovu-ces from which the money is to be raised. The overseers are to 
raise the funds " by taxation of every inhabitant, parson, vicar, and other, 
and of every occupier of lands, houses, tithes impropriate, or propriations 
of tithes, coal mines, and saleable underwood." 

Under the Act of Elizabeth, not only every occupier, but every inhabitant 
was required to contribute, and the measure of his liabiHty was, not the 
annual rental value of the immovable property which he occupied, but his 
ability to pay. In modern practice, inhabitants, as such, except parsons and 
vicars, escape payment, and the accepted criterion of ability to pay is rental 
value. It was nearly two centuries and a half before these two changes 
were completed. 

In the seventeenth century, the annual rent, which traders, manufacturers, 
or farmers paid for their shops, factories, or farms, was probably the best 
guide to an estimate of their business profits. It was at least more satis- 
factory than the estimate which their neighbours might form of those profits. 
Very few years had, therefore, passed before rental value was generally 
accepted as practical evidence of an occupier's ability to pay. The other 
change was slower and more gradual. Inhabitants continued liable till a 
much later date. The earnings of labour, whether fees, salaries, or wages, 
went first. The rent of landlords escaped next.^ Personal property and the 
profits of stoc)i-in-trade were not fully relieved till 1840 (3 and 4 Victoria, c. 89). 
That Act provides that it shall not be lawful for the overseers of any parish, 
" township, or village to tax any inhabitant thereof, as such inhabitant, in 
respect of his ability derived from the profits of stock-in-trade or any other 
property, for or towards the relief of the poor." Since 1840, this measure 
has been renewed from year to year. 

2. The Expenditure of the Funds raised fob Poor Relief. 

From mediaeval times two distinct classes of the poor had to be dealt with 
— the impotent, and the able-bodied. Each class fell into two subdivisions ; 
the impotent — into children, or the aged, sick, and infirm ; the able-bodied — 
into sturdy rogues and vagabonds, or the honest poor, " willing to worcke " 
but unable to find employment. Early legislators seem to have recognised 
that poverty is a relative condition implying the want of comforts habitual 
to any particular class, and that destitution is the absolute state of wanting 
the necessaries of life. They accepted as a moral duty the direct relief of 
the destitute ; they did not encourage public aid to the unconditional relief 
of poverty. They also discriminated between voluntary and involvmtary 
indigence. They distinguished those who are indigent owing to their own 
conduct from those who are reduced to want by causes for which they them- 
selves are not responsible. Thus the impotent poor were to be succoured 
and relieved. The able-bodied were treated on different hnes, and each of 
the two divisions into which the class falls was differently handled. Untold 
misery might have been saved, if the original principles of poor relief had been 
more strictly maintained ; their gradual relaxation, culminating in the years 
1795-1834, smns up the history of the Poor Law from Elizabeth to William IV. 

The relief of the impotent poor affects agricultiu-al labour only indirectly. 
For this reason it will not be specially discussed here. It will be enough to 

1 Sir Anthony Earby's case, 1633. 
2E 



434 APPENDIX II.— POOR LAW 

say that the Act of Elizabeth in 1601 (43 Eliz. c. 2) followed previous legisla- 
tion by directing money to be raised for the relief of the impotent poor — " of 
lame, impotent, blind, and such other among them being poor and not able 
to work," for the provision for them of " convenient houses of dwelling," and 
for " the putting out of . . . children to be apprentices." 

From the first, the problem of dealing with the able-bodied presented the 
greatest difficulty to legislators. The necessity of discriminating between 
the two classes of the able-bodied was early felt. It was forced into pro- 
minence, partly by the increase of mendicancy fostered by indiscriminate 
almsgiving, partly by the industrial changes, which, during the Tudor period, 
affected both agi'icultui'e and manufactiu-e. Sturdy rogues and vagabonds 
were punished, under penal laws of such ferocious severity that they defeated 
themselves — with whipping, branding, imprisonment, and transportation. 
For less hardened offenders labour was used both as a test and a penalty ; 
for them Houses of Correction were created ; rewards were offered for their 
apprehension ; they were harried by laws of settlement from parish to parish 
imtil they reached their place of birth. Towards the able-bodied poor, who 
were willing to work, a different poHcy was adopted. It was at first scarcely 
more lenient. For them a living at least, but not wages, was to be provided, 
on condition that they earned their food as slaves. Labour was the test of 
their necessities. In 1547 (1 Ed. VI. c. 3) every "city, town, parish, or 
village " was required to provide work for its able-bodied poor, or " to appoint 
them to such as will find them work " for meat and drink. Elizabethan 
legislation proceeded on more humane lines. In 1575, and again in 1597 
and 1601,^ "a convenient stock of flax, hemp, wool, thread, iron," and other 
stuff was to be provided in every parish " to set the poor on work." The 
material was to be wrought up at the home of the needy able-bodied person, 
finished at a given time, and paid for according to skill. Those who either 
refused to work, or spoilt or embezzled the material, feU into the class of 
vagabonds, and were consigned to a House of Correction. The stock was to 
be replenished by the sale of the manufactured goods, so that the system 
might become self-supporting. 

The Elizabethan Poor Law was imperfectly administered. Political 
disorders increased the disorganisation of the system. Overseers failed to 
collect the rates ; the stock was not uniformly provided ; the vagrant popula- 
tion had greatly increased. Stanley,- the ex-highwajonan, writing probably 
in 1605, imagined that there were then " not so few as 80,000 idle vagrants that 
prey upon the common- wealth." It is improbable that their nmnber had de- 
creased during the Civil Wars or imder the Coinmonwealth. It was against 
this class, and especially against squatters, that the Act of 1662 " for the 
better Relief of the Poor" (14 Car. II. c. 12), commonly known as the "Act 
of Settlement " was directed.^ The principle on which it proceeded was 
as old as the Anglo-Saxons. As the first step towards progress and 
order, every man was required within 40 days to have a settled domicile, and 
to be enrolled in some fixed commiuiity. Stranger and outlaw were synony- 
mous terms. Throughout the Poor Law legislation from Richard II. to 
EHzabeth, the same principle had been enforced for the removal of the poor 
to their birthplace or last permanent abode. If relief was to be treated as a 
parochial, and not as a national, bvuden, a settlement was necessary. But 
the Act of Charles II. indisputably made the law more rigid, and imposed 
new fetters on the mobihty of laboiu". It recites that people wandered from 
parish to parish, endeavouring " to settle themselves where there is the 

1 18 Eliz. c. 3 ; 39 Eliz. c. 3 ; 43 Eliz. c. 2. 

2 Slanleye's Remedy : or the Way how to Reform Wandring Beggars, Theeves, High- 
way Robbers, and Pickpockets. London, 1646. 

3 Report to the Poor Law Board, by G. Coode, 1851. 



RELAXATION OF THE LAW 435 

best stock, the largest commons or wastes to build cottages, and the most 
woods for them to burn and destroy, ... to the great discouragement of 
parishes to provide stocks, where it is liable to be devoured by strangers." 
To these wanderers were applied the regulations for the removal of vagabonds. 
Any person '''likely to be chargeable to the parish," unless he had acquired 
a settlement by a residence of 40 days, might be removed to his birthplace. 

On this Act was built up a mass of settlement law, which occupied the 
time of Sessions and Assizes, wasted the money of ratepayers, and, worst of 
all, fettered labour to one spot. But the policy of the legislature seems to 
have been to encourage and faciUtate the relief of those who satisfied the 
settlement test. The cost of the Poor Law increased so rapidly that, in order 
to check what the Act of 1691 (3 and 4 Wm. and Mary, c. 11) styles the 
frivolous pretences of the overseers, controlling powers were given to the 
vestry and the justices. The control of the magistrates only led to larger 
expenditure. To reduce the growing cost a test of destitution was authorised. 
By the Act of 1722 (9 Geo. I. c. 7) churchwardens and overseers were empowered 
to provide houses for the maintenance of the poor, to contract for the employ- 
ment of the inmates, and to apply the surplus of their earnings to the reduction 
of the rates. If any applicant refused to enter the house, he was not 
entitled to relief of any kind from the rates. The offer of a living was made 
entirely conditional on his entering the workhouse. 

The Act of 1722 effectively checked the spread of pauper relief wherever 
it was adopted. But the legislation of George III. moved in the opposite 
direction of increased laxity. No doubt the great rise in the price of pro- 
visions from 1765 to 1774,^ the disturbance of trade by the wars of 1756-63 
and 1774-83, the invention of the steam-engine and the spinning- jenny, the 
rapid growth of population, presented the old problems of unemplojrment 
and poverty in an acuter form. As civiUsation advanced, humanitarian 
sentiment asserted new claims, and social legislation occupied a larger share 
of the attention of Parliament. The need for detailed information respecting 
the cost of Poor Relief led to the Act of 1776, which required overseers to 
furnish rettu"ns of their assessments and expenditure. From these returns 
it appeared that the actual outlay in that year was £1,530,800. During the 
early years of the reign, munerous amendments were passed in the administra- 
tion of the Poor Law. But the most important changes were made by the 
Act of 1782 " for the Better Relief and Employment of the Poor," usually 
known as " Gilbert's Act " (22 George III. c. 83). In any parish, or union 
of parishes, which adopted the provisions of the Act, the management of the 
poor was vested in a visitor and guardians. Poor relief was thus taken 
out of the hands of the overseers, whose duties were restricted to collecting 
and accounting for the rates. For the impotent poor, houses were to be 
provided which were in effect almshouses, though they unfortunately inherited 
the traditions of the old Houses of Correction and workhouses. The most 
serious alterations affected the able-bodied. The workhouse test of destitu- 
tion, or of voluntary pauperism, was partially discontinued. In any parish 
where poor persons, able and willing to work but unable to find employment, 
applied to the guardian, he was obliged, imder a penalty, to find them work 
conveniently near the residence of the apphcants, to receive their earnings, 
to apply the money to their maintenance, to make up any deficiency out 
of the rates, to hand over any sm-plus to the earners. Alone among 
wage-earners, the able-bodied poor had not to exert themselves to find 
work or conduct their own bargains for wages. They were secure of a 
living, not if they worked their best, but if they worked hard enough 
and well enough to escape punishment. Nothing depended on their own 

1 For 1755-64, the average price of wheat was 37s. 6d. a quarter ; for 1765-74, 51s. a 
quarter. The price rose 35 per cent. 



436 APPENDIX II.— POOR LAW 

characters, skill, or industry, provided only that they kept out of the class 
of sturdy rogues and vagabonds, or, as they were now called, " the idle 
and disorderly." 

Such measiu-es as the encouragement of Friendly Societies, the fovuidation 
of Savings Banks, the establishment of industrial schools were designed by 
the Legislature to improve the condition of the labouring classes and to pro- 
vide means of escape from poverty. Their remedial effects were necessarily 
slow : they could afford no rehef to the hardships and privations into which 
wage-earners were suddenly plunged by the exceptional rise in the price of 
provisions in 1795-6. The laboiu-ing classes must have been brought to the 
verge of famine, imless the advance in the cost of necessaries was met by a 
corresponding rise in wages, or unless wages were supplemented by some 
form of charitable allowances. In these circvunstances, legislators and county 
magistrates unfortimately turned for their immediate remedies to permanent 
alterations in the Poor Law. In 1795 a tardy attempt was made to remedy 
the worst abuse of the laws of settlement. The removal of any persons was 
prohibited until they had actually become chargeable to the parish (35 Geo. III. 
c. 101). In the same year the Berkshire magistrates, by what was from their 
place of meetmg known as the Speenhamland Act, endeavoured to fix a 
"■ fair wage " by using the rates to supplement earnings in proportion to the 
price of bread and the size of families (see Chapter XIV.). Other coimties 
adopted similar scales of supplementary allowances out of the rates. At 
the time the expedient was of doubtful legality ; but in the following year 
(1796) Parliament confirmed its principle. It sanctioned indiscriminate out- 
door relief (36 Geo. III. c. 23) by completely abandoning the workhouse test 
of destitution. That part of the Act of 1722 (9 Geo. I. c. 7) which had 
permitted relief to be made conditional on entry into the workhouse was 
repealed, on the ground that it prevented " an industrious poor person from 
receiving such occasional relief as is best suited to his pecuhar case," and 
held out " conditions of relief injurious to the comfort and domestic situation 
and happiness of such poor persons." Overseers were authorised to give 
occasional relief in cases of temporary ilhiess or distress at the houses of the 
industrious poor imconditionally, although the recipients refused to enter 
any house provided for their maintenance. 

Justices were also empowered, at theu* discretion, to order money grants 
to be given to the industrious poor in their own homes. The consequences 
of these successive relaxations of the Poor Law were not at the time visible. 
During the greater part of the war they were mainly used for the rehef of 
winter unemployment. Substantial advances in wages, the progress of 
manufactures, the increased demand for labour created by the larger area 
mider tillage combined to relieve distress. It was during the period of 
depression 1813-36 that the full effects were revealed. Both in manufacturing 
towns and agricultm-al districts employment had become scarce. Employers, 
hard-pressed by falling prices, took advantage of the relaxed Poor Law to 
reduce their expenses, by throwing on the ratepayers the greater part of 
their labour bills. A single justice was further empowered, at his discretion, 
to order rehef to be given to poor persons in their own homes for one month ; 
two justices might extend the order for two months, " and so on from time to 
time, as the occasion shall require." ^ 

Within the next forty years the consequences of these relaxations of the 
Poor Law were fully developed. They are summarised m the Report of the 
Parhamentary Committee of 1817, and with greater detail by the Poor Law 
Inquiry Commissioners, appointed in 1832, whose Report was pubhshed two 

1 These powers were still further enlarged in 1815 (55 Geo. III. c. 137). A single 
justice might make an order for three months, and two justices for six months, "and so on 
from time to time as the occasion shall require." 



THE POOR LAW COMMISSIONERS, 1B34 437 

years later.^ The general principle of this latter Report, on which was based the 
Poor Law Amendment Act of 1834 (4 and 5 Wm. IV. c. 76), was that outdoor 
relief of able-bodied paupers was the root-evil of the existing system, and that 
their position must be made less eligible than that of independent labourers. 
Relief must, therefore, not be given in the home of the recipient. Destitu- 
tion, or, as the Report expresses it, indigence, not poverty, is to be regarded 
as the proper object of a Poor Law, and the workhouse affords the only reliable 
test by which the two conditions can be discriminated. A man is only 
destitute when he is ready to accept the restraint of a workhouse rather 
than rely on his own resources. Parliament refused to adopt the extreme 
course of absolutely and universally prohibiting outdoor relief to able-bodied 
persons or to their families, as the Commissioners recommended. It is signi- 
ficant that no power was given to dissolve the Gilbert Unions, in which the 
overseers were compelled by statute to employ able-bodied applicants for 
relief in work conveniently near their own homes. Nor was Parliament 
altogether convinced that workhouses were essential to properly administered 
Poor Relief, and it showed its hesitation by not arming the Commissioners 
with powers to compel their provision. In other respects the main principles 
of the Report were adopted. 

The Act of 1834 did not itself attempt to frame a new system of Poor 
Relief. It rather aimed at correcting abuses by substituting for every variety 
of practice the uniform adoption of improvements which experience had 
proved to be salutary. Instead of elaborating its own code of rules, it con- 
ferred on a newly constituted public body ample discretionary powers. It 
altered the existing law of settlement and of bastardy. But the really 
important change which it effected was the creation of a Central Authority, 
consisting of three Poor Law Commissioners, empowered to issue orders 
regulating every detail of the local administration of Poor Relief. To this 
Board were transferred the powers of all the unskilled and irresponsible 
authorities of 15,000 parishes. Existing incorporations under Gilbert's Act 
or local Acts were not to be dissolved. But with these exceptions, the Com- 
missioners were specially empowered to group parishes into unions for the 
management of workhouses common to the united parishes, thus spreading 
the cost over a larger area, minimising the influence of local interests, enabling 
each union to employ competent paid officials, and facilitating the classifica- 
tion of the inmates. Power was reserved to two justices to order outdoor 
relief in cases where one of the justices making the order certified, of his own 
knowledge, that the recipient was, from old age or bodily infirmity, unable 
to work. In all other cases, relief to the able-bodied was to be regulated 
by the Commissioners' orders, and any relief administered contrary to their 
regulations was declared unlawful, and was to be disallowed. In pursuance 
of these wide powers, the Poor Law Commissioners, appointed under the Act, 
entrusted the ordinary administration of relief within each union to the 
" reUeving oificers," under the direction of the Board of Guardians, subject to 
the following, among other, regulations : (1) Except in cases of sickness or 
accident, no relief is to be given in money to any able-bodied pauper, who 
is in employment, nor to any part of his family. (2) If any able-bodied 
male pauper applies to be set to work by the parish, one-half at least of the 
relief is to be in kind. (3) No relief is to be given by payment of house- 
rent, or by allowance towards the same. The first regulations were tem- 
porary, designed as the first stage in a stricter administration of the law. 
But the attitude of Parliament towards the complete prohibition of out- 
door relief and the universal establishment of workhouses faithfully reflected 
the feeling of the coimtry. Round these two points raged a prolonged contest. 

^ Feb. 24, 1834. It had been preceded by the publication of Extracts from Information 
received by His Majesty's Commissioners, etc. (March 19, 1833). 



438 APPENDIX II.— POOR LAW 

The workhouse test was denounced as inhuman ; the houses were condemned 
as Bastilles of the poor ; the classification of the inmates was resisted as 
contrary to nature. Though the Commissioners for some time steadily 
persevered in their pohcy, it cannot be said that a complete victory rested 
with them or with their successors (1847), the Poor Law Board. The points 
which Parhament left open in 1834 are still those on which administrators of 
the Poor Law are divided. 



THE CORN LAWS ^ 439 



APPENDIX III. 

THE CORN LAWS. 

A. Prices of Wheat, 1646-1911 (p. 440). 

B. The Principal Acts relating to the Corn Trade (p. 442). 

C. The Assize of Bread (p. 448). 

D. Exports and Imports of Corn, 1697-1801 (p. 452). 

E. Bounties paid on Exports of Corn, 1697-1765 (p. 452) 



440 



APPENDIX III.— CORN LAWS 



A. PRICES OF WHEAT, 1646-1911.1 

(i) Statement of the Annual Average Price of Wheat per Imperial 
Quarter at Eton, from the Year 1646 to 1770. 



Years. 


Average 
Prices. 


Years. 


Average 
Prices. 


Years. 


Average 
Prices. 




s. d. 




s. d. 




s. d. 


1646 - 


44 


1688- 


42 1 


1730 - 


33 5 


1647 - 


67 5 


1689- 


27 6 


1731- 


30 


1648 - 


77 10 


1690 - 


31 8 


1732- 


24 4 


1649 - 


73 3 


1691 - 


31 1 


1733- 


25 11 


1650 - 


70 2 


1692 - 


42 8 


1734- 


36 6 


1651 - 


67 2 


1693 - 


61 11 


1735 - 


39 4 


1652 - 


45 4 


1694 - 


58 7 


1736- 


36 11 


1653 - 


32 5 


1695- 


48 6 


1737- 


34 9 


1654 - 


23 9 


1696 - 


65 


1738- 


32 5 


1655 - 


30 6 


1697 - 


55 


1739- 


35 2 


1656 - 


39 4 


1698- 


62 7 


1740 - 


46 6 


1657 - 


42 8 


1699- 


58 7 


1741- 


42 8 


1668 - 


59 6 


1700- 


36 7 


1742 - 


31 1 


1659 - 


60 6 


1701 - 


34 5 


1743 - 


22 9 


1660 - 


51 8 


1702- 


26 11 


1744 - 


22 9 


1661 - 


64 1 


1703 - 


33 


1745 - 


26 2 


1662 - 


67 9 


1704 - 


42 7 


1746 - 


36 9 


1663 - 


52 3 


1705 - 


27 6 


1747- 


31 10 


1664 - 


37 1 


1706- 


23 9 


1748 - 


33 10 


1665 - 


45 2 


1707 - 


26 1 


1749 - 


33 10 


1666 - 


33 


1708- 


37 11 


1750- 


29 8 


1667 - 


33 


1709- 


71 11 


1751 - 


36 2 


1668- 


36 7 


1710- 


71 6 


1752- 


38 3 


1669 - 


40 7 


1711- 


49 6 


1753 - 


40 10 


1670 - 


38 1 


1712- 


42 5 


1754 - 


31 8 


1671 - 


38 6 


1713- 


46 9 


1755 - 


31 


1672 - 


37 6 


1714- 


46 1 


1756 - 


41 4 


1673- 


42 8 


1716- 


39 4 


1757- 


65 


1674 - 


62 10 


1716- 


44 


1758- 


45 9 


1675- 


59 2 


1717- 


41 10 


1759- 


36 4 


1676 - 


34 9 


1718- 


35 6 


1760- 


33 6 


1677 - 


38 6 


1719- 


32 


1761 - 


27 7 


1678 - 


54 


1720- 


33 10 


1762- 


35 9 


1679 - 


55 


1721- 


34 4 


1763- 


37 2 


1680 - 


41 3 


1722 - 


33 


1764- 


42 8 


1681 - 


42 8 


1723- 


31 9 


1765- 


49 6 


1682 - 


40 3 


1724 - 


33 10 


1766- 


44 5 


1683 - 


36 7 


1725- 


44 5 


1767- 


69 1 


1684 - 


40 3 


1726- 


42 1 


1768- 


55 5 


1685 - 


42 8 


1727- 


38 6 


1769 - 


41 10 


1686 - 


31 1 


1728 - 


49 11 


1770- 


44 10 


1687 - 


23 


1729- 


42 10 







1 The figures for 1646-1770 are taken from Returns Relating to the Importation and 
Exportation of Corn, etc. ; Parliamentary Paper 177 {184;-!), p. 17- Those for 1771-1910 
are taken from Agricultural Statistics, 1910, vol. xlv. pt. 3 [Cd. 5786, pp. 232-3.5]. 
The figure for 1911 is taken from the Journal of the Board of Agriculture, Jan. 1912, 
p. 890. 



PRICES OF WHEAT, 1771-1911 



441 



(ii) Statement or the Annual Average Price of British Wheat 
IN England and Waxes, from 1771 to 1911. 



Years. 


Annual 
Average 
Prices per 
Imperial 
Quarter. 


Tears. 


Annual 
Average 
Prices per 
Imperial 
Quarter. 


Years. 


Annual 
Average 
Prices per 
Imperial 
Quarter, 




Wheat. 


Wheat. 


Wheat. 


1771 - 


s. d. 

48 7 


1818- 


s. d. 
86 3 


1865 - 


s. d. 
41 10 


1772- 


52 3 


1819- 


74 6 


1866 - 


49 11 


1773- 


52 7 


1820 - 


67 10 


1867 - 


64 5 


1774 - 


54 3 


1821 - 


56 1 


1868 - 


63 9 


1775- 


49 10 


1822 - 


44 7 


1869 - 


48 2 


1776- 


39 4 


1823 - 


53 4 


1870- 


46 11 


1777- 


46 11 


1824 - 


63 11 


1871 - 


56 8 


1778- 


43 3 


1825 - 


68 6 


1872- 


57 


1779 - 


34 8 


1826 - 


58 8 


1873 - 


58 8 


1780- 


36 9 


1827 - 


58 6 


1874 - 


55 9 


1781- 


46 


1828- 


60 5 


1875 - 


45 2 


1782- 


49 3 


1829 - 


' 66 3 


1876 - 


46 2 


1783- 


54 3 


1830- 


64 3 


1877 - 


56 9 


1784 - 


50 4 


1831 - 


66 4 


1878 - 


46 5 


1785 - 


43 1 


1832 - 


58 8 


1879 - 


43 10 


1786 - 


40 


1833 - 


52 11 


1880 - 


44 4 


1787- 


42 5 


1834 - 


46 2 


1881 - 


45 4 


1788- 


46 4 


1835- 


39 4 


1882 - 


45 1 


1789 - 


52 9 


1836 - 


48 6 


1883 - 


41 7 


1790 - 


54 9 


1837 - 


55 10 


1884 - 


35 8 


1791 - 


48 7 


1838- 


64 7 


1885 - 


32 10 


1792- 


43 


1839 - 


70 8 


1886 - 


31 


1793 - 


49 3 


1840 - 


66 4 


1887 - 


32 6 


1794 - 


52 3 


1841 - 


64 4 


1888 - 


31 10 


1795 - 


75 2 


1842 - 


57 3 


1889- 


29 9 


1796 - 


78 7 


1843 - 


50 1 


1890- 


31 11 


1797- 


53 9 


1844 - 


51 3 


1891 - 


37 


1798- 


51 10 


1845 - 


50 10 


1892 - 


30 3 


1799- 


69 


1846 - 


54 8 


1893 - 


26 4 


1800 - 


113 10 


1847 - 


69 9 


1894 - 


22 10 


1801 - 


119 6 


1848 - 


50 6 


1895 - 


2? 1 


1802 - 


69 10 


1849 - 


44 3 


1896 - 


26 2 


1803 - 


58 10 


1850 - 


40 3 


1897 - 


30 2 


1804 - 


62 3 


1851 - 


38 6 


1898 - 


34 


1805 - 


89 9 


1852 - 


40 9 


1899 - 


25 8 


1806 - 


79 1 


1853 - 


53 3 


1900 - 


26 11 


1807 - 


75 4 


1854 - 


72 5 


1901 - 


26 9 


1808 - 


81 4 


1855 - 


74 8 


1902 - 


28 1 


1809 - 


97 4 


1856- 


69 2 


1903 - 


26 9 


1810- 


106 5 


1857 - 


56 4 


1904 - 


28 4 


1811- 


95 3 


1858 - 


44 2 


1905 - 


29 8 


1812- 


126 6 


1859 - 


43 9 


1906 - 


28 3 


1813- 


109 9 


1860 - 


53 3 


1907 - 


30 7 


1814- 


74 4 


1861 - 


55 4 


1908 - 


32 


1815- 


65 7 


1862- 


55 5 


1909 - 


36 11 


1816- 


78 6 


1863 - 


44 9 


1910- 


31 8 


1817- 


96 11 


1864 - 


40 2 


1911- 


31 8 



442 APPENDIX III.— CORN LAWS 

B. PRINCIPAL ACTS OF PARLIAMENT AFFECTING THE 
CORN TRADE. 

1360. 34 Edw. III. c. 20. — Prohibiting exportation of corn, except by the 
King's hcense for the supply of Calais and Gascony. 

1393. 17 Ric. II. c. 7. — Permitting the export of corn, except to the 
King's enemies, subject to the power of the King's Council to restrain exporta- 
tion in the interests of the nation. 

1436. 15 Hen. VT. c. 2. — Permitting the exportation of corn, without the 
royal hcense, when the price of wheat at the place of shipment did not exceed 
6s. 8d. per quarter, and at proportionate prices for other grains. 

1463. 3 Edw. IV. c. 2. — Prohibiting the importation of foreign corn, 
when the price of wheat at the place of import did not exceed 6s. 8d. per 
quarter, and at proportionate prices for other grains. 

1533. 25 Hen. VIII. c. 2. — Prohibiting the export of corn without the 
royal license. 

1551-2. 5 and 6 Edw. VI. c. 14. — Persons engrossing corn {i.e. buying 
com to sell again) were subjected to heavy penalties, and, on a tliird offence, 
to the pillory, forfeiture of goods, and imprisonment. Persons were, how- 
ever, permitted to engross corn, provided that they did not forestall it, or 
regrate it {i.e. hold it for a rise), when the price of corn did not exceed 6s. 8d. 
per quarter. Farmers buying corn for seed were compelled to sell an equiva- 
lent amount, or forfeit double what they had bought. 

1554. 1 P. and M. c. 5. — Restoring freedom of exportation when the 
price of wheat did not exceed 6s. 8d. per quarter, and of other grains in 
proportion. 

1562-3. 5 EUz. c. 12. — Corn-badgers, i.e. persons buying com at open 
fairs and markets, were required to take out licenses and to give security 
not to engross, forestall, or buy otherwise than at open fairs and markets. 

1562-3. 5 Ehz. c. 5. — Freedom of exportation from ports specially licensed 
by the Crown extended when the price of wheat did not exceed 10s. per 
quarter and of other grains in proportion. 

1570. 13 Eliz. e. 13. — Providing for the annual settlement of the average 
prices by which exportation was regulated. The Lord President and the 
Council in the North, the Lord President and the Council in Wales, and the 
Justices of Assize, within their respective jurisdictions, were yearly, upon 
conference, had with the inhabitants of the country, on the cheapness and 
dearth of all kinds of grains, to determine the averages for the year, and 
permit or prohibit the exportation of grain. 

Corn could be exported freely to any foreign country subject to a customs 
duty of Is. per quarter of wheat and other grains in proportion, when no pro- 
clamation was issued to the contrary. 

1593. 35 Eliz. e. 7. — Permitting exportation of grain subject to a customs 
duty of 2s. per quarter of wheat, and other grains in proportion, when the 
prices of wheat did not exceed 20s. per quarter and other grains in proportion. 

1604. 1 Jac. I. c. 25. — Raising the limit of price for the export of wheat 
to 26s. 8d. per quarter and other grains proportionately. 

1623. 21 Jac. I. c. 28. — Raising the export limit for wheat to 32s. per 
quarter and for other grains in proportion. 

1660. 12 Car. II. c. 4. — The export of corn was permitted whenever the 
prices at the port of exportation did not exceed, for wheat, 40s. per quarter ; 
rye, pease, and beans, 24s. ; barley and malt, 20s. ; oats, 16s. The poundage 
on exportation amounted to Is. per quarter for wheat, 4d. for oats, and 6d. 



8. 


d. 


5 


4 


4 





2 


8 


1 


4 


2 






ACTS AFFECTING SALES OF CORN, 16B0-74 443 

for other grain. The import rates, from poundage, were as follows, subject 
to an allowance of 5 per cent, for discount : 

Wheat and buck-wheat, when not exceeding 44s. s. d. 
at the port of importation, - - - per quarter 2 
Ditto, exceeding 44s., ..... „ 04 
Rye, beans, barley, and malt, when not exceed- 
ing 36s., „ 14 

Ditto, exceeding 36s., ..... „ 03 

Oats and pease, ...... ,, 2| 

per last of 
Meal of wheat or rye, 12 barrels 3 

1663. 15 Car. II. c. 7. — Corn was allowed to be exported when the prices 
did not exceed the following sums per quarter at the places of shipment : 
Wheat, 48s. ; rye, pease, and beans, 32s. ; barley, buck-wheat, and malt, 
28s. ; oats, 13s. 4d. The import duties were increased to the sums under- 
mentioned, on corn, when not exceeding the same prices at the port of 
importation : 

Wheat, when not exceeding 48s. per quarter. 
Rye, pease, and beans, when not exceeding 32s. per quarter, 
Barley and malt, when not exceeding 28s. per quarter, 
Oats, when not exceeding 13s. 4d. per quarter, - 
Buck-wheat, when not exceeding 28s. per quarter, 

1670. 22 Car. II. c. 13. — Intituled " An Act for the Improvement of 
Tillage," corn might be exported, although the prices exceeded the sums 
fixed by 15 Car. II. c. 7, paying poundage as before, viz. Is. per quarter on 
wheat, 4d. on oats, and 6d. on other grain. Rates of duty on importation 
were imposed, in lieu of poundage, on corn when under certain prices at the 
port of importation, as follows : 

s. d. 
On wheat, when not exceeding 53s. 4d. per quarter, 
Ditto, exceeding 53s. 4d., and not above 80s. per quarter, - 
Rye, pease, and beans, when not exceeding 40s. per quarter. 
Barley, malt, and buck-wheat, when not exceeding 32s. per 
quarter, ..------- 

Oats, when not exceeding 16s. per quarter. 
Wheat-flour— as Wheat. 
When exceeding those prices, poundage as before was chargeable, viz. 4d. 
on wheat, 3d. on rye, beans, barley, and malt, 2|d. on oats and pease. 

1689. 1 WiUiam and Mary, c. 12. — Bounties were granted on the exporta- 
tion of the following articles, ground or ungroimd : 

s. d. 

Wheat, 5s. per quarter, when the price was at or imder - 48 

Rye, 3s. 6d. per quarter, when the price was at or under - 32 
Barley and malt, 2s. 6d. per quarter, when barley was at or 

under - - - - - - - - -24 

1707. 5 Anne, c. 29. — Bounties were allowed on the export of the 
following : 

Beer or bigg, 2s. 6d. per quarter, when the price was at or 
under .....---- 
Malt made of wheat, 5s. per quarter, . . - - - 

Oatmeal, 2s. 6d. per quarter, when oats were 

1774. 13 Geo. Ill, c. 43, from 1st January. 



16 





8 





16 





16 





5 


4 



s. 


d. 


24 





48 





15 






444 



APPENDIX III.— CORN LAWS 



Duties on Importation. 

Whenever the prices of middling British corn at the port of importation 
were at or above the following sums, the undermentioned rates were to be 
paid : 

Prices. Duty. 

Wlieat (and buck-wheat), - 48s. - 6d. per qr. on wheat 

2d. per cwt. on fiovu*. 
Rye, pease, and beans, - - 32s. - 3d. per qr. 

Barley, beer or bigg, - - 24s. - 2d. per qr. 

Oats, 163. - 2d. per qr. 

WTien the prices were imder those sums, the former scale of duties became 
chargeable ; in which case, corn and flour were allowed to be warehoused at 
the principal ports, paying, on delivery for home constunption, such duty as 
might be due at that time. 

Export. 

The export to foreign parts of corn or meal, flour, malt, and bread and 
biscuit made therefrom, was prohibited when British com was at or above 
the following sums, per quarter, at the port of exportation : wheat, 44s. ; 
rye, pease, and beans, 28s. ; barley, beer or bigg, 22s. ; oats, I4s. 



Bounties on British Corn, Ground or Unground, Exported in 
British Ships. 



When the prices of middling com were vmder the following sums at the 
port from which exported, viz. : 

44s. A boimty allowed of 5s. per quarter 
on wheat, and malt made there- 
from. 
28s. A bounty allowed of 3s. per quarter 

on rye. 
22s. A bounty allowed of 2s. 6d. per 
quarter on barley, beer or bigg, 
and on malt made therefrom. 
14s. A bounty allowed of 2s. per quarter 
on oats, and 2s. 6d. per quarter 
on oatmeal, at the rate 276 
lbs. to the quarter. 
1791. 31 Geo. III. c. 30, from 15th November. — In order to ascertain the 
average home price of com, the Act directed that the maritime counties of 
England should be divided into twelve districts, and that the prices, ascertained 
separately for these districts, should regulate the duties and boimties in each. 
The export of wheat was prohibited, when wheat was at or above 46s. per 
quarter. The export of other com or meal was prohibited at proportionate 
prices. The duties on imported wheat were as follows : 



Wheat, - 

Rye, 

Barley, beer or bigg, 

Oats, 



From Ireland, or British Colonies or 
Plantations in North America. 



Under 48s. per qr.. 

At or above 48s. but under 52s. 

At or above 52s., - 



From other parts. 



Under 50s., - - - . 

At or above 50s. but under 54s., 
At or above 64s., - 



.?. d. 
24 3 



2 6 



6 



The importation of other species of grain was regulated by proportionate 
duties at proportionate prices. 



Until the quantity 
amounts to 500,000 
quarters. 



ACTS AFFECTING SALES OF CORN, 17^-1804 445 

1796. 36 Geo. III. c. 21. — Bounties granted (for the first time) on corn 
imported at certain ports in British or neutral vessels, from 24th September, 
1795, to 30th September, 1796, viz. : 

Wheat and flour from any port of Europe, south of Cape Finisterre, from 
the Mediterranean or Africa : 

20s. on every quarter of wheat weighing not^ ^^^.j ^^^ quantity of 

less than 440 bs., - " " " such wheat and flour 

16s. on every quarter of wheat weighmg not - together amounts to 

less than 424 lbs. - - - - 400,000 quarters. 

6s. on every cwt. oi wheat-flour, ' 'J 

Wheat and flour from other parts of Europe (not British Dominions) : 
15s. on every quarter of wheat weighing not^ 

less than 440 lbs., - - - - Until the quantity 

12s. on every quarter of wheat weighing not V amounts to 500,000 

less than 424 lbs., - - - - quarters. 

4s. 6d. on every cwt. of wheat-flour, - -J 

Wheat and flour from the British Colonies or the United States of America : 
20s. on every quarter of wheat weighing not" 

less than 440 lbs., . . - - 

16s. on every quarter of wheat weighing not 

less than 424 lbs., . . - - 

6s. on every cwt. of wheat-flour, - -^ 

On wheat and flour exceeding the quantities to which the beforementioned 
bounties are limited : 

10s. on every quarter of wheat weighing not less than 440 lbs. 
8s. on every quarter of wheat weighing not less than 424 lbs. 
3s. on every cwt. of wheat-flour. 

Indian Corn and Meal. 

5s. for every quarter of corn, - \ Until the quantity together amounts 

Is. 6d. for every cwt. of meal, -J to 500,000 quarters. 

3s. for every quarter of corn, - \ Exceeding the limited quantity of 

Is. for every cwt. of meal, -/ 500,000 quarters. 

Rye, 

10s. for every quarter weighing not less than 400 lbs. until the quantity 
amounts to 100,000 quarters. 
6s. for every quarter exceeding the limited quantity of 100,000 quarters. 

N.B. — On warehoused corn delivered out within three months, three-fifths 
of the bounty granted on the importations from the Mediterranean, allowed. 
(2^ cwt. of wheat-flour deemed equal to one quarter of wheat, and 3| cwt. 
of Indian meal to one quarter of Indian corn.) 

1804. 44 Geo. III. c. 109, from 15th November. — The plan for ascertain- 
ing the average prices, as laid down by the Act of 1791, was altered, and it 
was now directed that importation and exportation should be regulated in 
England by the aggregate average of the 12 maritime districts into which it 
was divided, and in Scotland by the aggregate average of the four Scotch dis- 
tricts. The averages were to be taken four times a year. In 1805, by 
45 Geo. III. c. 86, the plan was again altered, and it was arranged that the 
prices both in England and Scotland should be regulated by the average 
prices of the 12 English maritime districts. 



446 



APPENDIX III.— CORN LAWS 



1814. 64 Geo. III. c. 69, from 17th June. — Corn, grain, meal, and flour 
(bread and biscuit added by Treasury Order), to be exported at all times 
without payment of duty, and without receiving any boiuity. 

^ 1815. 55 Geo. III. c. 26, from March 23. — Foreign and colonial corn, meal, 
or flom- might be at all times imported, and warehoused, without payment 
of duties ; but it could only be taken out of warehouse for home consumption, 
or entered for the like pm-pose on importation, whenever the prices of British 
com should be at or above the following smns, and then duty free : 



Wheat, 

Rye, pease, and beans, - 
Barley, beer or bigg, 
Oats, - - - - 



For Corn of the British 

Colonies in North 

America. 



67s. per quarter. 

44s. 

33s. 

22s. 



For Corn not of the 

British Colonies in 

North America. 



80s. per quarter. 
53s. '„ 

40s. 

27s. 



1822. Table of duties payable by Act 3 George IV. c. 60, on wheat when 
admitted for home consumption : 



From the British Colonies or 
Plantations of North America. 


From other parts. 


Duty. 


Addi- 
tional 
for the 


When the average prices of 
British Wheat should be 


When the average prices of British 
Wheat should be 


first 

three 

months. 


Under 67s. per quarter. 
At or above 67s., but imder 
71s., .... 
At or above 71s., 


Under 80s. per quarter, 

At or above 80s., but under 

85s., ... - 
At or above 85s., 


12s. 

53. 

Is. 


53. 

5s. 



The importation of other grain was regulated by proportionate prices 
and duties. 

1825. 6 Geo. IV. c. 64 (temporary).- — The prohibitions and restrictions 
upon the importation of wheat, the produce of the British possessions in 
North America, and the duties payable thereon, under the Acts of 1815 and 
1822, were suspended from 22nd June, 1825, until the end of the then next 
session of ParUament, during which period such wheat might be entered for 
home consumption, whatever might be the average price of British corn, on 
payment of a duty of 5s. per quarter. (The provisions of this Act expired 
in July, 1827.) 

1828. 9 Geo. IV. c. 60. — The duties on wheat imported from any foreign 
country were as follows : WTien the average price of wheat is 

66s. and under 67s., the duty to be 20s. 8d. per quarter. 

67s. „ 68s. „ 18s. 8d. 

16s. 8d. 

13s. 8d. 

10s. 8d. 

6s. 8d. 

2s. 8d. 

Is. Od. 



68s. 


69s. 


69s. 


70s. 


70s. 


71s. 


7l3. 


72s. 


728. 


73s. 


at or above 


73s. 



ACTS AFFECTING SALES OF CORN, 1828-69 447 



The duties on wheat imported from any British Possession out of Europe 
were as follows : When the average price of wheat is 

Under 67s. per quarter, the duty to be 5s. Od. 
At or above 67s. „ ,, Os. 6d. 

The importation of other grain, foreign or colonial, was regulated by pro- 
portionate prices and duties. 

^ 1842. 5 and 6 Viet. c. 14, from 29th April.— The Act of 1828 repealed and 
another scale of duties imposed. The prices for the regulation of the duty 
to be made up and computed on Thursday in each week from the retiu-ns 
received of the sales of corn the produce of the United Kingdom diu-ing the 
preceding week ending Saturday, and a certificate thereof to be transmitted 
to the officers of the Customs at the respective ports on the same day. 

Rates of dtiiy on wheat " Imported from any foreign country " (i.e. not being 
the produce of and imported from any British Possession out of Europe). 





Prices 




Duty per 
qr. 


When under 51s., 




s. d. 
- 20 


51s. 


and under 52s., 


- 19 


52s. 




55s., 


- 18 


55s. 




56s., 


- 17 


56s. 




57s., 


- 16 


57s. 




58s., 


- 15 


58s. 




59s., 


- 14 


59s. 




60s., 


- 13 


60s. 




61s., 


- 12 


61s. 




62s., 


- 11 





Prices. 




Duty per 
qr. 

s. d. 


62s. 


and under 63s., 


- 10 


63s. 




64s., 


- 9 


64s. 




65s., 


- 8 


65s. 




66s., 


- 7 


66s. 




69s., 


- 6 


69s. 




70s., 


- 5 


70s. 




71s., 


- 4 


71s. 




72s., 


- 3 


72s. 




73s., 


- 2 



73s. and upwards. 



1 



Rates of duty on wheat, the produce of and imported from any British Possession 

out of Europe. 



When under 55s., 

55s. and under 56s., 
56s. „ 57s., 



5 





4 





3 






When 57s. and under 58s. 
58s. and upwards, 



These duties ceased to apply to wheat and flour, the produce of Canada, 
imported after 10th October, 1843. See 1843. 

The importation of other grain, foreign or colonial, was regulated by pro- 
portionate prices and duties. 

1843. 6 and 7 Vic. c. 29. — In consideration of a duty of 3s. per quarter 
having been imposed by the Legislature of Canada on wheat imported into 
that province from other places than the United Kingdom or British 
Possessions, the duty on wheat and wheat flom-, the produce of Canada, 
imported into the United Kingdom after 10th October, 1843, and during 
the continuance of the duty of 3s. in Canada, is to be at all times Is. per quarter 
on wheat, and on flour, for every 196 lbs. a duty equal to that payable on 
38| gallons of wheat (or 4|d. per cwt.). 

. 1846. 9 and 10 Vict. c. 22. — From Feb. 1, 1849, the following fixed rates 
of duty on corn, meal and flour came into operation in He a of those previously 
levied under the same Act : 

Wheat, barley, beer or bigg, oats, rye, pease, and beans. Is. per qr. 

Wheatmeal and flour, barley meal, oatmeal, rye, meal 

and flour, pea meal and bean meal, - - - 4^d. per cwt. 

1869. The duties on corn were entirely repealed from the 1st June by 32 
and 33 Vic. c. 14. 



448 APPENDIX III.— CORN LAWS 

C. THE ASSIZE OF BREAD.i 

The Assize of Bread, like the Assize of Ale, formed part of the system by 
which, in the interests of consumers, prices of food and drink were regulated. 
The Assize is defined in one of the most famous of mediaeval statutes — the 
Assisa Panis et Cervisice. But though the name is famihar, the date of the 
statute is uncertam. Probably passed towards the end of the reign of 
Henry III. (1266 ?), that part of it which referred to bread, though revised 
and altered by subsequent legislation, remained in force for London till 1815, 
and for the rest of the country till 1836. 

It was the duty of Justices of the Peace to " set the Assize," in other words, 
to adjust the weight, quality, and price of bread to the current prices of 
wheat, with the addition of an allowance for the labour and skill of the baker. 
The method, by which this adjustment was effected, was extremely com- 
plicated. It started with the legal habilitj' of the baker to make 418 lbs. of 
bread out of every quarter of wheat. The first step was to ascertain the 
average price fetched by a quarter of wheat m the pubhc markets of the 
neighbourhood. The next step was to add to this price the discretionary 
allowances for the expenses and skill of the baker. These two sums, added 
together, represented the total sum for wliich the 418 lbs. were to be sold. 
The last step was to calculate the exact weight of bread which each penny 
would buy, in order that the whole 418 lbs. might reahse the ascertained sum. 
The table, thus calculated, was called the Assize of Bread : in it were given 
the weights of the loaves which were to be sold at the customary prices. 
The Assize was periodically proclaimed, and to sell bread above the price or 
below the weight set out in the current table was a penal offence. 

The amount of bread to be made from each quarter of wheat remained 
unaltered down to 1710 (8 Anne, c. 11), when it was reduced, it is said acci- 
dentally, from 418 lbs. to 417 lbs. The allowance of the baker on each 
quarter of wheat varied more widely. In 1497 it was 2s. But the Church 
Rate, Education, Sanitary, PoUce, and Poor Rates, had not then to be taken 
into consideration. In 1620 these payments entered into the calculation. 
In that year the white bakers of London petitioned that the allowance should 
be raised from 6s. to 8s., owing to their necessary expenses for food and 
clothing, and " the teaching at school " of their children, their " duties to 
the parson, the scavengers, for the poor, for watching and warding," etc. 
The items of the allowances at the earlier period are sometimes quaint, e.g. : ^ 

" Furnace and wood, -------- 6d. 

The Miller, - 4d. 

Two journeymen and two apprentices, .... 5d. 

Salt, yeast, candle, and sackbands, - - - . . 2d. 

Himself, his house, his wife, his dog and his cat, - - - 7d. 



In all - 2s. Od." 

The average price of a quarter of wheat from 1453 to 1497 is said to have 
been, in modern money, 14s. Id.* Taking this figure as an illustration, the 
method of " setting the Assize " may be thus exemplified. The addition of 
the discretionary allowance of 2s. to the price (14s. Id.) of the quarter of 
wheat gives as the total 16s. Id. The justices had to calculate the weight 
of each penny loaf, so that the whole 418 lbs. of bread might be sold to realise 

^The Assize of Bread is fully treated iu G. Atwood's Review of the Statutes and 
Ordinances of Assise, 1202-1797 (1801), and in an article by Sidney and Beatrice Webb 
in The Economic Journal for June, 1904, pp. 196-218. 

2 Quoted by Sidney and Beatrice Webb in "The Assize of Bread" (Economic Jou/rnal, 
June, 1904, p. 197). 

3 Adam Smith, WeaZth of Nations, M'Culloch's edition (1850), p. 117. 



THE ASSIZE OF BREAD ^ 449 

16s. Id. The table of weights and prices, so computed and proclaimed, was 
the Assize of Bread. Besides his allowance, the baker had for his profits 
the offals, and his " advantage bread," consisting of the additional amount 
which he could make out of the quarter of wheat over and above the fixed 
418 lbs. of bread. The flour which the baker obtained from the miller was 
to be worked up into three different qualities of bread. Their proportionate 
values were fixed. Thus, when one penny would buy 1 lb. of " bread treet," 
or household bread, it would approximately buy | lb. of " bread of the whole 
wheat " or wheaten bread, or J lb. of " wastell," or white bread. Put in 
another way, when the finest white bread cost one penny a pound, the pound 
of wheaten and of household bread could be bought at the approximate 
prices of three-fartliings and of one halfpenny respectively. 

It is difficult to say whether Assizes of Bread were in the Stewart period 
very generally set. They were certainly much more frequently proclaimed 
in towns than in country districts where bread was \isually baked at home. 
By the end of the seventeenth century, the practice seems to have fallen into 
disuse, even in corporate towns. An attempt to revive it was made by 
the Government in 1710 in the interests of consiuners. The statutory allow- 
ance of bakers was raised to twelve shillings per quarter, and, as has been 
already stated, the amount of bread to be made from the quarter of wheat 
was reduced from 418 lbs. to 417 lbs. A still more important change was 
necessitated by the intervention of a new class of trader between the baker 
and the wheat-grower. The industrial organisation had become more com- 
plicated than it was in the Middle Ages. Bakers no longer bought their 
quarters of wheat direct from the farmer, carried them to the mill, paid the 
miller for grinding, and carried away the product in the form of flour and 
offals. Now miUers themselves bought the wheat from the growers, ground 
it into floiu", separated it into different qualities, and sold them at different 
prices to the bakers. These changed conditions were most ineffectively met 
by empowering the justices, at their option, to calculate their tables on the 
prices either of wheat or of flour. The local prices, thus settled by the justices 
and returned to the Custom House officers, suppHed the statistics by which, 
under the Corn Laws, the bounties, the prohibitions of exports, and the duties 
on imports were to a great extent regulated. 

The Act of 1710 remained unaltered till 1758. If no other proof existed, 
it might be concluded from this fact, that the prices of wheat remained low. 
When the prices of food rose, public discontent was generally expressed in a 
demand for some change in the laws by which they were regulated. Prac- 
tices which, though irritating, were tolerated in days of cheapness, became 
in times of scarcity burdensome beyond endurance. Complaints were always 
numerous, but mostly from the trade. It was, for instance, alleged that 
country districts were unprotected against frauds by neglect of the practice 
of setting Assizes which had proved beneficial in towns ; that the informers 
who profited by the penalties under the Act were mischievously active ; 
that bakers could not, owing to their dependence on the millers, comply with 
the regulations ; that the wheat prices were improperly taken ; that the 
best white bread could not be produced at the prices fixed in the tables ; 
that the lower quality of bread was largely adulterated by the use not only 
of alum but of biu-nt bones, chalk, lime, and whiting ; that the poorest 
classes refused to eat any bread except that made from the whitest flour, 
and sacrificed the nom-ishment of wheat to an absurd fashion. The last 
complaint illustrates the tendency of history to repeat itself. The pamphlets 
of the day exhaust the subject of the " whole meal " agitation of 1911 ; but, 
in the early part of the eighteenth century, the demand for white bread was 
a sign of an improved standard of hving. 

The Act of 1710 remained in force till 1758. Among the bakers it was 

2r 



450 APPENDIX III.— CORN LAWS 

unpopular ; there is leas evidence that it dissatisfied consumers. When 
prices rose, it was human, since natural causes were beyond control, to blame 
the method of settmg the Assize. The year 1757 was one of scarcity ; by 
the Bristol tables the penny loaf weighed only 4 oz. 14 dwt. There was an 
immediate demand for a change in the law. In 1758 a new Act was passed 
(31 Geo. II. c. 29), codifying the existing law, and introducing alterations 
which seem to have been luiduly favourable to bakers. Bread was to be 
made of two quaHties only, wheaten and household ; the ntunber of povmds 
to be sold per quarter was reduced from 417 to 365 ; bakers were allowed 
to choose whether they would sell in their shops " assized " loaves, which varied 
in weight but were fixed in price, or " prized " loaves, varying in price but 
fixed in weight. The Statute fixes by a table of proportion the weight of 
the Id. loaf of wheaten and of household bread, regulated by the price of 
wheat and the baker's allowance. It also settles in the same way the price 
of the " prized " loaf. By a later Act the wheaten bread was to be stamped 
with W and the household with H. The " prized " loaf was the " peck 
loaf," made from 2 gallons of wheat or 14 lbs. of flour, and weighing 17 lbs. 
6 oz., and its subdivisions — the half peck loaf (8 lbs. 11 oz.) ; the quarter 
peck or quartern (4 lbs. 5| oz.) ; and the half quartern (2 lbs. 2| oz.). To 
prevent fraud, no baker was allowed to sell in the same shop " assized " as 
well as " prized " loaves. The Assizes were to be periodically proclaimed 
according to the fluctuations in prices, and were not to remain in force more 
than 14 days. 

The Act of 1758 fell on troublous times. The period 1765-74 was one of 
scarcity. The high prices of bread were attributed to the malpractices of 
bakers and miUers. It was alleged that the changes in the law had allowed 
them vmusual opportimities for making excessive profits. It is possible that 
this was the case. No assay of flour was attempted. Consequently, miUers 
were able to return their product as being of superior quality, though they 
continued to supply the inferior grades, and bakers conformed to the Assize 
by adulterating the standard of both the legalised classes of bread. An 
agitation was begiui, which resulted in the Act of 1773 (13 Geo. III. c. 62). 
The number of pounds of bread to be sold out of each quarter of wheat was 
restored to its former basis ; regulations were made prescribing the method 
in which flour was to be dressed ; the old standard wheaten bread, which, 
" according to the antient order and custom of the realm," had existed 
" from time immemorial," was again legahsed, and was to be stamped S.W. 
There were, therefore, once more three qualities of bread — wheaten, standard 
wheaten, and household. The proportionate cost of the three kinds was 
also regulated. The same weights of wheaten, standard wheaten, and house- 
hold were to be sold respectively at 8d., 7d., and 6d. No attempt was made, 
except in the case of standard wheaten, to define the quality of the different 
breads. Standard wheaten was to consist of the whole produce of the grain, 
the bran or hull only excepted, and the flour of which it was made was to 
weigh three-foiu-ths of the wheat from which it was gromid. 

The new Act may have been as easily evaded as the old. But the fall in 
prices after 1774 cheapened bread, and the contented consimier probably 
attributed his relief to the success of the new law. The extraordinary rise 
in prices which took place from 1794 to 1812 revived the whole question of 
the efficacy of Assizes of Bread in aggravated form. In 1812 at Grantham 
the weight of assized bread to be bought for one penny was only 4 oz. 6 dwt., 
bringing the cost of the quartern loaf to Is. 4d. The rise was so unpre- 
cedented, that millers and bakers were suspected of every variety of mis- 
demeanoiu". Bakers especiaUy were charged with reducing the weight, and 
raising the price of bread beyond the limits justified by the advance in the 
price of wheat. There was a general demand for the enforcement of the 



THE ASSIZE OF BREAD ^ 451 

Assize of Bread. In some districts, justices prohibited the sale of any kind 
of bread except the standard wheaten. In others, they set the table of prices 
so low that bakers refused to bake. The Assize was either disregarded, or 
public subscriptions were raised to induce bakers to continue their trade. 
The regulations naturally failed to lower prices, though some effect may have 
been produced in compelling bakers to follow their variations. Among 
other devices to reduce the price of wheat was the authority given to bakers 
in 1795 (36 Geo. III. c. 22) to make and sell bread, stamped with M, which 
was mixed with other ingredients than corn. But the people, for whose 
relief the mixed bread was designed, resolutely refused to touch it. They 
rejected even standard wheaten and household bread, and demanded the 
finest and whitest bread. It was in vain that members of ParHament, Privy 
Councillors, magistrates, aldermen, and vestrymen endeavoured to set the 
fashion by eating the coarser qualities themselves. The people clung to 
their improved standard of living, and bakers could only satisfy the tastes 
and pockets of their customers by the production of white bread which was 
artificially whitened by wholesale adulteration. 

Efforts were made to improve the system of setting the Assize. In con- 
sequence of the Report of a Select Parliamentary Committee, an amending 
Act was passed in 1813 (53 Geo. III. c. 116). But the feeling was becoming 
more and more general that regulations affecting prices of food were mis- 
chievous, that legislation was powerless, and that, where laws failed, free 
competition might succeed. Another Seleot Committee was appointed to 
consider the " Laws relating to the Manufacture Sale and Assize of Bread." 
On their Report in 1815, an Act was passed (55 Geo. III. c. 49), which applied 
only to London and a metropolitan area of ten miles round. Bakers were 
permitted to sell loaves of specified weight at any price they chose. In 
provincial towns the Assize still hngered. In 1821 a Report in favour of 
eomplete freedom of trade was presented to the House of Commons by a 
Committee appointed to consider the " Regulations relative to the Making 
and the Sale of Bread." The iimnediate result of their Report was the Bread 
Act of 1822 (3 Geo. IV. c. 106), which finally abolished all regulations of 
weight or price in London. Its remoter effect was the application of a similar 
Act to the provinces. In 1836 (6 and 7 Wm. IV. c. 37) the Assize of Bread 
was at last, after an existence of nearly six centuries, finally abolished. 



452 



APPENDIX III.— CORN LAWS 



si 

H 


o 

Ci 

"^ 

p-H 


00 


00 

o 


o 
o 

CO 
<M 

CO^ 


00 


CO 

oo" 
CO 


s s 


00 

Oi 


00 

co_^ 
o" 


o" 
co^ 


Oi 

o 


o 

CD 

o 

Oi 


00 
lO 
(M 

co" 


d 
m 

E- 
(4 

o 

OS 

lid 
H 

o- 

o 
a 
n 


p 

7 


o 
o 

CO 

o" 


00 

CO 
00 

lO 


oo" 




o 

co__ 

00 


o 

CO 

>c 

(M 

t^ 

Ol" 
(M 


i 




o 


o 

CO 

o" 


o 




t-- 

co 
co" 






o 
co_^ 

CO 


CO 


00 


UO 
00 


o 

00 
CD_^ 

o" 


Q 
E« 
EH 

ei 
o 

PM 

>< 

to 

OS 
» 

§ 

to 


1 


OS 
CO 

o 
co" 


U-5 

00 

co__ 


t- 

t> 

<»" 

CO 


05 

co' 


CO 

o 

CO 


CO 
00 


2 


o 

(M 

o" 


C5 

<£> 
CO 


IM 
I> 

CO 


(M 
(M 


t-" 

(M 

CD_^ 
CO* 
<M 


s 


CI 

co" 


o 


o 

"*- 

1— 1 


00 
00 

oo" 


O 
CD 


IC 
CO 

CO 
CO 

eg 


i 

c 

c 

E 
C 


3 

3 


6 

o 
S 

® 


d 

o 

la 


'3 
B 

c3 
O 

1 

o 


i 
>> 

§ 




< 



(In 

Cm 
O 

oo 
H 
O 
<5 

H 

H 
P 
G? 
H 
c» 
M 

Q 



O H 



<3 
Ph 

a 
I— I 

H 

O 

M 



O O (M t^ 



^1 ^J^ ^( ^^ 



o 


(N 


CD 


CO 


t^ 


CO 


lO 


o 


CO 


o 


r- 


tn 










Ol 


r-H 


C5 


00 


00 


r^ 


CO 


<M 


C^J 


CO 


r^ 


CO 


c+l 









APPENDIX IV.— GREGORY KING 



453 



H « 



a 


o o o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 




o o o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


« SS 


O^ Tt< CO o o_ o_ 


o^ o o^ 


o o o o o o o 


o 


J-i 5 '^ 










« S 2 

5^ 


'^rt TiT o" <» cT o 00 


o o 00 


00 O ■<* (N O O !>• 


K) 


O -H o fO (M OO 


<» 05 O 


GO 00 (M CO >0 CO 00 


l> 


— < <M 


— < (M 


(M cq CO CO -^ 




P^Sl 


^- o © o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


<=> i 










Iga 


„• o o o o o o 


o o o 


O O O CO «o o o 


o 




qj O O O lO ■* CO 


■^ CO CO 


CO ■* <N O -H O O 


^ 


^ -H (N 


■"* 








-d o o o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


o-d 










>>S c« 












M- o o o o o o 


o o o 


o o o •^ »o O >Ci 


o 


f^ ft 


C4j O >0 05 lO --< iM 


«o I> I> 


t- 00 O Oi ^ 05 00 


^ 


I> -* ■* Tj( tH M 


cq -^ CO 


<M -H rt rt 


^^ 




„• o o o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


(2 c fe 


jj o »o ic o in lo 

'*' cc <£> K) io -^ n 


o o o 


CO <M (M O CO O CO 


(M 


"ft 


CO (M O 


lO (M P-^ ^ -H -H 


""^ 




o o o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


•S .—I 


o o o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


- --■ g 


o^ « o^ o^ o_ o_ 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 












^ (m" CO TtT o o o 


o o* o" 


O O -* O O O lO 


o 


r-H fO O 05 O 00 


o o o 


O Tt( T** O ■* O t- 


o 


O I> M (N 00 


(M CO 00 


CD >C —< ■* CO CO 00 


05 












-H (M 


'"' 


■-H rt CO CD CO 




o 


^ o o o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


>.^>. 






'—' 




Ill 


O O O O O o 


o o o 


CO -^ (M O -H IC <N 


o 


-,, O O CO lO lO 00 
^ <N CO 00 CO Tj( (M 


^ (M O 


CJ lO !>• lO o o ■* 


CD 


(N --H -* 


F«H »—) 




5* 


CO r-T 










o o o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


»H gj 


O (M O O O O 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


^ s 


■<# lO CO 00 o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 












So 2 


?D (M t^ O <» 


O O CD 


CO O (M o o o o 


K) 


3 S 


rt CO 05 


^ CO ^ 


■* t> rt ■* 00 CO »o 


l> 


f-H ,S 






«^ CO c^ 




1-^ 






H« 




o s s 


o o «o CO o 00 


00 CO 00 


CO I> CO >o i> »o Its 


»o 


«"fe 


■^ (M rH rt -H 












-d ' t3 ' TS ' 


g ' • • ■ t^^ • 


T3 ■ 






a a a 


c 


■a 

1- 




cd ^ ^ 
® 1 *" 1 i 


1 ° o 

is • • • • <c fc ' 


CD , 

4^ 






1 1 - 
° o i 


1 .a ^^ 




E-i_o 




f^ ' , ■ rfl 


1 ^l§-5 


"3 • 


s"1 

.id 

a 


§^ ' ' ' 
2 '3 ^ i S S 

<D Qj w .H CO <D 


1 1 ^=3" 

eS ra S © 




C o fl O ® T5 
O c3 O (S fl cS 


P -^ ® bC TO m 

t) -( o f^ t^ ^ 

n]^F-iacoa)©i3 


to 2 




<B 1^ (B ^ C ^ 


(D'^(Bn<iit<^<oa 


(C 




Ph ^ H 


^^ fLiHi-jf^PRfePn 




O CO o o o o 


o o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


^ EC 


(CMOOOOO o o 


o o o o o o o 


o 


4) O 


-^ 00 «o o o 


o o o 


o o^ o^ o^ o^ <^« ® ® ' 










i°i 


CO e<i 


O »0 (N 


00 o eq 00 o O o 


o 






-H -!H (N U5 


(-H 


S5 ;S 











<« 2 



^ 3 





^ 






? 


m 








> 






o 




■« 


n 






« 


M 



R, O 



454 



APPENDIX IV.— GREGORY KING, Etc. 







ESTIMATE OF PRODUCE AND STOCK, ^688 455 

Table 2. — The Land of England and Wales and its Products in 1688. {Ncaural 

and Political Observations and Conclusions upon the State and Condition 
of England, 1696, by Gregory King; ed. Chalmers, 1804, p. 52.) 





Acres. 


Value per Acre. 


Rent. 






£ s. d. 


£ 


Arable land,^ .... 


9,000,000 


5 6 


2,480,000 


Pasture and meadow, 


12,000,000 


8 8 


5,200,000 


Woods and coppices. 


3,000,000 


5 


750,000 


t Forests, parks, and commons, - 


3,000,000 


3 8 


570,000 


Heaths, moors, mountains, and 








barren land. 


10,000,000 


1 


500,000 


Houses and homesteads, gar- 








"\ dens and orchards, churches 








and churchyards. 


i,ooo,ooo| 


The land 
The buildings 


450,000 
2,000,000 


Rivers, lakes, meres, and ponds, 


500,000 


2 


50,000 


'^Roads, ways, and waste land, - 


500,000 






In aU, 


39,000,000 


about 6 2 


12,000,000 



^ Davenant on Trade (ed. Whitworth, vol. ii. p. 216) gives the arable area at 9 million 
acres, and the area of pasture and meadows at 12 million acres. 



Table 3. — An Estimate of the Live Stock of England and Wales in 1688. 
(Davenant on Trade, ed. Whitworth, vol. ii. p. 219.) 





Yearly breed 
or increase. 


The whole 

Stock. 


Value of each 

besides the 

skin. 


Value of the 
Stock. 








£ s. d. 


£ 


Beeves, sterks, and 










calves, 


800,000 


4,500,000 


2 


9,000,000 


Sheep and lambs, - 


3,600,000 


12,000,000 


7 4 


4,440,000 


Swine and pigs, 


1,300,000 


1-. 2,000,000 


16 


1,600,000 


Deer and fawns, 


20,000 


^ 100,000 
T" 50,000 


2 


200,000 


Goats and kids. 


10,000 


10 


25,000 


Hares and leverets,- 


12,000 


• 24,000 


1 6 


1,800 


Rabbita and conies. 


2,000,000 


1,000,000 


5 


20,833 




7,742,000 


19,674,000 





15,287,633 



456 



APPENDIX v.— ESTIMATES OF CROPS 



APPENDIX V. 



Table 1. — Estimates of the Acreage of England and Wales and the 
Area under different kinds of Crops. 

{An Inquiry into the State of National Subsistence, by W, T. Comber, 
London, 1808. Appendix XXV.) 



Crops. 
Wheat, 

Barley and rye, ...... 

Oats and beans, ...... 

Clover, rye, grass, etc., . . . . . 

Roots and cabbages cultivated by the plough, 

Fallow, 

Hop-grounds, ....... 

Nursery-grounds, ...... 

Fruit and kitchen gardens cultivated by the spade. 
Pleasure-grounds, --.... 

Lands depastured by cattle, . . . . 

Hedgerows, copses, and woods, . - - . 

Ways, water, etc., ...... 

Total cultivated area, . . . . 

Commons and waste lands, . . . 

Total acreage of England and Wales, 



Acres. 

3,160,000 

861,000 

2,872,000 

1,149,000 

1,150,000 

2,297,000 

36,000 

9,000 

41,000 

16,000 

17,479,000 

1,641,000 

1,316,000 

32,027,000 
6,473,000 

38,500,000 



Table 2.— 1827. 

(Select Committee on Emigration, 1827. Evidence of Mr. W. Couling. 
Sessional Papers, 1827, vol. v., p. 361.) 



Territorial 
divisions. 


Arable land 
and gardens. 


Meadows, 

pastures, and 

marshes. 


Uncultivated 

improveable 

wastes. 


Unimproveable 
wastes. 


Total 
acreage. 


England, - 
Wales, 


Acres 
10,252,800 
890,570 


Acres 

15,379,200 
2,226,430 


Acres 
3,454,000 
530,000 


Acres 
3,256,400 
1,105,000 


Acres 

32,342,400 

4,752,000 


Total, 


11,143,370 


17,605,630 


3,984,000 


4,361,400 


37,094,400 



APP. VI.— VARIOUS METHODS OF PAYING TITHES 457 



APPENDIX VI. 

COLLECTION OF TITHES (1793-1815.) 

The following variations in the methods of collecting tithes are mentioned 
in the Reports to the Board of Agricultiire on the respective counties. 

1. Eastern and North-E astern Counties. 

Bedford. A corn-rent generally adopted instead of an allotment of land 
when enclosures are made. Few enclosed parishes continue tithable. Half 
the parishes are Vicarages, and the great tithes are in the hands of lay impro- 
priators. In about 10 parishes tithes are collected in kind. 

Camba. Much tithe collected in kind, the hirer paying from 3s. to 5s. 4d. 
per acre. Compositions average the same rate or higher. One-tenth of the 
prime cost of purchased manures allowed by several titheowners. On 
enclosm-es 1th of arable, Jth of pasture, and Jth of fen, all fenced at the cost 
of proprietors, allotted in lieu of tithe. 

Essex. Average for gi-eat and small tithes is a composition of 3s. 9d. per 
pound rent. 

Herts. Titheowners generally moderate because the light soils could only 
produce heavy crops mider spring-dressings brought from a distance at 
great cost. In 1813 there is no instance of tithe being taken in kind. 

Hunts. Instead of land being allotted in lieu of tithes on enclosures, a 
corn-rent varying with the price of corn is generally arranged. 

Lincoln. Compositions average from ith to 1th of the rent of arable land, 
1th to |th of meadow, ^th of rich pasture. Tithes exchanged for land on 
enclosure. Much land unploughed in order to escape tithes. 

Norfolk. Very little tithe collected in kind. Compositions average 3s. 6d. 
an acre (1793) or 4s. 9d. (1803) on arable land and Is. 6d. for grass. 

Suffolk. Some tithe taken in kind. Compositions, sometimes by the acre, 
sometimes by the pound rent, vary in amomit, but are generally much under 
real value. 

2. South-Eastern and East Midland. 

Berks. Great tithes compounded at 5s. in the pound rent ; small at Is. 3d. 

Bucks. Lay impropriators less careful of interests of parish than clerical 
titheowners. Average of composition 4s. 6d. an acre. Out of 204 parishes 
82 are tithe free, i.e. extinguished by allotments of land in lieu ; 30 partly 
and chiefly tithe free ; three pay a corn-rent, one a modus. The remaining 
114 are tithable. Only one tithe collected in kind. Compositions moderate. 

Hants. Much tithe taken in kind ; composition from 4s. 6d. to 7s. on full 
improved rent. 

Kent. Much tithe let out to proctors who collect in kind. 



458 APPENDIX VI.— TITHES 

Middlesex. Tithe taken in kind, or annually compounded for ; some 
parishes pay a modus. 

Northants. Enclosed land generally tithe free. Average of tithes reckoned 
at from 3s. to 3s. 6d. per acre over the whole open-field farm, including the 
portion which is annually fallowed. The loss to the occupier, if tithe taken 
in kind, estimated at 5s. to 6s. per acre. 

Notts. Tithes taken in kind, or compoimded for : in new enclosures, land 
generally allotted in lieu of tithe : moduses charged on particular products ; 
lands originally belonging to religious houses generally tithe-free. 

Oxford. Tithe averages ^th of rent : on enclosures -l-th of arable and ^th of 
pastiu"e allotted in lieu. 

Rutland. One-third of the land subject to tithes : on enclosures ^th of 
arable and ^th of greensward allotted in lieu. Clergy more reasonalale in 
collection than lay impropriators. 

Surrey. Common opinion is that land tithe-free and worth 20s. an acre 
is worth 13s. if subject to tithe. Tithes mean more than loss to a farmer ; 
they cramp his energies. 

Sussex. Compositions average 4s. 6d. an acre for wheat ; 2s. 6d. for 
barley, oats, beans, or pease ; pasture and meadow 2s. These compositions 
are " generally allowed to be moderate and very fair." 

Warwick. Lay impropriators more rigorous in exactions than clergy. 
Tithes generally compounded for at the rate of 6s. to 12s. per acre of tillage, 
and from Is. 6d. to 5s. 6d. for meadow and pastiu-e. 

3. West Midland and South-Westkrn Counties. 

Cornwall. Great or sheaf tithes generally in the hands of laymen who 
farmed them out to proctors. In the hands of the clergy, small tithes were 
generally compoimded at Is. to Is. 3d. in the pound rent, and the great tithes 
at from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. in the pound rent. Lay tithes were either taken 
in kind, or valued and agreed in the field at harvest. 

Dorset. Tithes averaged on pastiu-e and arable land 3s. 6d. an acre ; on 
commons 8d., on downs 4d. A very low modus was common. Great tithes 
were often in lay hands, and compositions were frequently 5s. or 6s. in the 
pound rent. 

Gloucester. Tithes were generally compounded, but on yearly valuations. 
The average on arable land was 6s. an acre, and on grass 2s. 6d. to 3s. When 
land was allotted in Heu of tithes, commissioners generally allotted 1th of 
the arable and ^th of the pasture, the land, so allotted to the titheo-WTier, to 
be fenced, and the fences repaired for 7 years, at the cost of the proprietors. 
Very little tithe was taken in kind " at least among the clergy." 

Hereford. Very Uttle tithe taken in kind. Compositions averaged from 
3s. 6d. to 4s. in the pound rent. 

Shropshire. Very little tithe taken in kind. Compositions generally fair 
and equitable, either by annual valuations, or an agreed sum for a term of 
years : averaged not more than 2s. in the pound rent. 

4. North and North- Western Counties. 

Cheshire. Lay tithes generally let on lease for 21 years. Some lay owners 
collect a portion in kind and let the remainder, or have the tithes valued in 
the field, and give farmers the option of taking or leaving the tithable produce 
at the valuation. Hay was either tithed in kind or valued as above. Some- 
times a trifling m,odus was paid. 



VARIOUS METHODS OF PAYING TllBES 459 

Cumberland. Tithes generally taken in kind. A few parishes pay a modus ; 
others are tithe-free in consideration of a portion of the common being allotted 
to the impropriator. 

Derby. Survey and valuation made annually before harvest. The usual 
rates charged are : hay, 2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. an acre ; wheat, 12s. to 14s. ; oats, 
7s. to 10s. 6d. ; barley, 10s. Often surveyors fix a gross sum for the parish, 
which is paid by the principal occupier, and the proportions are adjusted 
among the farmers themselves. 

Lancashire. Tithes in many places collected in kind ; com, yj-th of the 
crop ; hay, compounded for at 5s. per acre, and at 6s. for clover in the first 
year. 

Northumberland. Some tithes collected moderately, others rigorously ; 
some let the tithes at a fair rent for a term of years ; others value and let 
every year. 

Staffordshire. Tithes diminish the wheat-growing area : farmers decHne 
to sow com, and prefer to graze their land, because of the large simas demanded 
by the tithiagmen. 

Westmoreland. Some tithes collected in kind, or farmers have the option 
of taking at valuation. 

Yorkshire, West. Great tithes often taken in kind ; but much reduced 
by grazmg. 

Yorkshire, North. Tithes in lay hands being extinguished by purchases 
made by landowners ; in clerical hands, tithes being diminished by enclosures 
and allotments of land in lieu. 



460 APP. VII.-THE AGRICULTURAL POPULATION 



APPENDIX VII. 



THE AGRICULTURAL POPULATION. 

Table A. — Census Returns for 1851, 1861, and 1871, 

Numbers and Occupations of those who were engaged in Agriculture 
in England and Wales in 1851, 1861, and 1871. 





1S51 


1S61 


1871 


Occupations. 








(a) In Fields and Pastures. 








Farmers and graziers. 


249,431 


249,735 


249,735 


Farmer's, grazier's son, grandson, etc., 








in the house, .... 


111,604 


92,321 


76,466 


Farm baiUff, ..... 


10,661 


15,698 


16,476 


Agricultural labovirers, shepherds, and 








cottagers, ..... 


965,514 


983,824 


962,348 


Agricultural students. 


104 


190 


760 


Agricultural implement proprietors or 








workers, ..... 


56 


1,441 


2,160 


Land drainage service. 


11 


1,761 


1,255 


Others engaged in agriculture. 


— 


— 


1,061 


(6) Woods. 








Woodmen, .... 


— 


. — 


7,855 


(c) In Oardens. 








Market gardeners, .... 


— 


— 


112,786 


Florists, nurserjrmen. 


— 


— 


7,021 


Domestic gardeners, - - - . 


— 


— 


— 


Totals, 


1,337,280 


1,344,970 


1,437,923 



CENSUS RETUENS, 1881, 1891, 1901 



461 











05 


CO (N CO 


O -H CO 


lo CO 


o 










05 


00 o o 


(M t- O 


-* oo 


-* 










(N 


t- <» CO 


CO »0 CO 


»o «R 


»o 




03 


















9 




■<* 


t-'MiO 


lO (N »0 


CO >o 


CO 




c> 




<N 


O (N <M 


Oi — 1 -H 




.-H 




^ 






(N 


f-H 


iO (M 




(M 




C4 














— ' 




^ 
























* * * 


* 








Q 






O 


t- lO COl 


tH 00 CO 


>0 00 


CO 




S5 








00 o t^ 


CO ^ CO 


t^ t^ 


Tt* 




■^ 






o 


M C<l^lO 


-H_ T)<_ ec 


CO 00 


1-H 






















05 


O"- 




CO 


t-T oo" -^" 


Oi a o^ 


tH -h 


»c 




1^ 


2 




(N 


O -^ (M 


>o t> 




00 




^ 






(M 




t^ -M 




*1 




a 














^^ 










» * * 


* 








QQ 






CO 


t^ I> -<# 


TjH i-H lO 


o CO 


Tfl 








TjH 


C35 t- Tt< 


lO >0 00 


CO CO 


Tj< 




ti 






C5 


-H CO^^OO 


05 -H (M 


(M lO 


lO 




O 

H 


















cc 




CO 


lOcTcq 


t^ 00 00 


■* (M 


(M 




'X) 




(M 


t- — < <N 


■* -rf 




O 










(M 




00 -< 




CO 










00 




, 1 


lO CD 


o 




00 CI (M 


t> lO C5 — < CO -.* 






o 




"* 


p^ CO -H 


Oi tH CO O 


CO (M 


o 










lO 


o_ 


t- ^ rt 


<N 


CO_^ 






■^ 






00 


CO 00 « 




t-" 


". 


73 






(M 








lO 








(N 






t- O 


»o 


o 

05 




O CD 


Ol 




05 




OS 


^' 1 1 


24,15 
5,04 


CO 03 




00 






tJ< 




CO CO 


00 lO 


CO 






.-I 






-'-^ [ I 


Tt< , Tt< 


CO t^ 


.-H 


00 
00 




■JD 






o^ 1 1 


40,3 
3,1 




CO 


S, 








J 


lo CO -* 


<M t- SO Tt< O «0 


O t- 


o 


s 








O 


CD (N >0 


O t- t- CO O (N 


00 to 


Tt< 


•^ 








r- 


-H^O^CO 


CO CO o o o -< 


Tfl t- 


o 




















00 




O 




(m" 


ON lO 


^ ■* 00 (M t- CO 


CO to 


00 


g 








o 


00 (M (N 


00 lO TJH rt 00 M 




lO 


K 








<M 




-^ CO ^ 




f-H 












^ 






-J" 


Q? 


























00 


t- lo CO 


m 00 o 


00 00 


1-H 


"> 










00 o c^ 


00 ■* CI 


O 00 


o 


^ 


H 






05 


(M M lO 


05 TJH IM 


CD t- 


I-H 


















g 


a 


^ 




^H 


t^" Oo' '-^ 


■* 05 Ttt 


tH ^ 


tH 


«j 




CO 




o 


CO -^ (N 


CO l> 




CO 


O 






IM 




t- -^ 




IM 


















'^ 


CQ 






05 


t^ l> ■* 


00 -1 <N 


<M 00 


00 










<M 


CI t^ TJH 


o »o Tt* 


(M lO 


M 


^ 








CO 


-H^ co__ 00__ 


CD^ '1, 1 


IM Tfl 


CO 


^ 






















CO 




CO 


lo cTcq" 


tC 00 lO 


T)< (M 


00 




CO 




o 


t> — H OJ 


O T)^ 




00 








(N 




00 -H 




*1 








, 




, .1 


en ' -^ ' 


. 




111' 


1 ' ^ 






H 


Gardens, 
ns, Daugh- 


isting 
n (so 

Farm 


ge of 
•ge of 
ed, 

Nur- 

sts, 


1 1 








P5 


ves ass 
e Farr 

rers. 


char 

char 

guish 

eners 
tic) ; 
Flori 
Prop 

inecte 








J 


Q O 


fl a a V. ^ r^ 


icultiu'al Machines — 

ttendants, 

ers engaged in or con 

griculture. 


s 






13 
o 

1— I 

o 

M 
h-l 
> 


Farms, Woods ani 
•mers. Graziers, 
'mers'. Graziers' — S 


ters, or other Relati 
in the work of th 
returned) - 

arm Bailiffs, Foreme 

hepherds, - 

Agricultural Labou 


Servants : 
Distinguished as i 

Cattle, 
Distinguished as i 

Horses, 

Not otherwise disti 

oodmen, - 

No. 40, Domestic Gai 

Gardeners (not Dcm( 

serymen, Seedsmei 


cS 

o 

H 








15 c8 c3 


< O 










Ofe Eh 


fe 02 


^ 












•-I 











C^ rt 



"« « 



2 S 



462 



APP. VIII.— IMPORTS, 1866-90 



X 

1— 1 


s 


ft 


<a 


^ 


■< 


H 


s^ 


P^ 


O 


PM 


5 


< 


o 



„ o 



■<i<iOiOI:^CO5<)l>(NrJ<00l^<N'ffl!MC(0C^«'— 1 

■COI>^C005COOMrOOO(N-Hl0^lOOO(M05 
OlOO-^<M^0000005l005l>OiaOiOt-<M 


















0»OM— (lOOMcOOOOOt^OOOOCOiOOS 
1003— iiOTt*Oro>0-HOO-^Tj<0>0'— iiM—iiO 

t^ CO -h' fo" ■^'" !>•"'»' o CO o lo" s<r cT c<r cT -^T o" >o~ d 

■0(N»000'»a5MM»0-<#C105COlO'^OCC>Tt< 
COf<5C005»0>a'-H.-i0500rtO'-<COQO(Nr005 



C005iffl®05i— iOOTtHlOi35I>00'— IMOOIN 
'^0<M<M— KTjl«<l(NlOCD»CI:^lC00O(M'-ifCi 

V 00 CO o 05 -^ t> o t^ co" I— r cT »o" o' t^" ic ccT -^"^ co^ 
<^^lOoO'-^oil-^l>•(N^oc^^050cofOo<^^»alo 

oaiC005C0(N0if0l:^Cit-OI>i— lOOOOCD 



•—ii-HOOrtOOoasMcoTttooooicDiocot-N 

C5aOr005>0«OSOOOO>ClTt<05'-HI>05C00001 
O -H (N 05 00 C^ t> »0_ --H CO ^_^ <N ^__ -H^ 00 -^ o^ O 

I Gi" <^f cf m' aj" lo" cvf 00*" to" cf CO cT oT oo" r-" c<5" TjT TjT 

OO-Huqc-OOOOOJt^OlO^Ot^fMOOO— I 
TttCOOlot^OO— 4(M01>Ot>lOO'— iCOt^-OOlO 
IM" Tir -"iT uj' o" o" o" oo" lO" o" o" CO* o" CD* CO* CO* CO* t-* 



C0CO00O5'»i<ClCO>CCOCO'*l>'*t-00T*<Cqi— I 
O0000-HC0O0001l0»0»0t>1005-*0iC0i— I 
(M»0<Mi— ilOCOCOS^(MOI>OOI>COOCOQOCO 

:j oif CO co" o irf CO >o ctT lo" ^* CO TfT TjT cq* cT t~~ cT CO 

<Mp— l(McO'^»nt^CO(NI>OOOfO-*-*(M'Oi— I 
>0C0C0(NO'<*IO(N>0<NCi'0t>i— i^I>CO<N 

Tiru3i>"i>r;o"i>"i>'o"Qd"or-H*ooo"t-'co"«>'o*^ 



i-HCOOi— ICDNCO'— i0005<35^COTt<OCOOCO 

OOrtfMi— |-<*CD»000050<NOOO»CCOCOCOCO 

-H 00 (N CO CO tJ* ^ o ^, ^„ *i ®, f^„ ■*„ "^^ '^. "*^ '^ 

'■4 T*r (N* cT t-* !>•* CO* »0* 00* O* (N* (M* CO* O" '■^ CO* oT O* l> 

•^COCOTi<(NOO-^CO»OTfiOiCO'— lOCJCOCOiO 

OC0OTtHIMOC000C0Tt<l>t^-HpHi-<C0^O05 

io*coQtr--rF-rcocooi'(3rio"G>~orod'co*ooo co*ocr 

-^(Msqcococococococo-^cocococo-^-^Tjt 



a: m 

<D © 

tuo be 

03 tS 
;-l ^ 

> > 

^^ 

O lO 

CO ■— I >o<^t^ooaiC^'-^o^co-rfto<^t~ccai<z> 

COt-t^t^t^t^t^-OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOJ 
000000000000000000000000000000000000 



IMPORTS OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE, t§91-1911 463 



■^ 


CO 


r^ 


C5 


o 


r- 


lO 


CO 


00 


lO 


r^ 




00 


»c 


>o 


Tt( 


Tfl 


O 05 


<M 






(^^ 


i-H 


cc 


CO 


en 


CO 


r^ 


o 


CO 


lO 


<N 


irj 


CO 


CO 


't* 


Gi 


Tt< 


(N 


p— 1 




o 


CO 


00 


t> 


lO 


C» 


CO 


CO 


o 


Tt* 


^ 


C5 


t- 


Tt< 


t- 


00 


»o 


T)< 


O O 




00 


r^ 


o 


<M 


CO 


-H 


t~- 


o 


t^ 


lO 


o 


CO 


CO 


o 


C5 


cs 


'^ 


CO 


,—1 


t- 




00 


Oi 


■~a 


<>J 


o 


00 


-* 


t^ 


(N 




t^ 


-* 


OJ 


■* 


O 


C/) 


O 


OJ 


00 


CO 




CO 


rt* 


o 


t> 


CO 


o 


OJ 


— < 


(N 


CO 


■— 1 


CO 


o 


o 


o 


CO 


o 


o 


T)H 


cq 




Tt( 


W 


r- 


lO 


CO 


CO 


o 


CO 


-* 


CO 


o 


00 


00 


00 


o 


CO 


,-H 


05 


t^ 


05 




>o 


1— 1 


T(< 


■* 


■* 


IC 


»o 


I> 


o 


00 


05 


00 


05 


o 


05 


o 


(M 


o 


(M 


(M 




C5 


r- 


(N 


>c 


CO 


CO 


>o 




CO 


CO 


M 


CO 




CO 


no 


CO 


r^ 


O 


C5 


LO 




t^ 


<£> 


■^ 


C5 O 


h- 


^ 


o 


00 


»o 


-* 


(X> 


lO 


o 


lO 


05 


C5 


r^ 


CO 


00 




Ci 


t- 


O 


■* 


■* 


-H 


lO 


(N 


'^ 


CO 




00 




C5 


o 


(N 


>— 1 


CO 


CO 


lO 




M 


O 


T<H 


,—1 


a 


05 


Tt< 


a 


Tt* 


CO 


o 


o 


<N 


r^ 


o 


(M 


o 


LO 


r^ 


CO 




OS 


O 


■^ 


Oi 


o 


CO 


lO 


C-J 


>o 


'iH 


-^ 


(N 


05 


CO 


on 


LO 


o 


CO 


T)H 


t^ 




«5 


!>• 


Tj< 


o 


'^ 


1— ' 


00 


TjH 


t- 


C2 


C3 


(M 


Oi 


CO 


03 


t> 


o 


(N 


C5 


■* 




t> 


«o 


l> 


lO 


_< 


TtH 


o 


r^ 


00 


05 


p-l 


CO 


CO 


00 


00 


r^ 


s<t 


a 


Tt( 


•<*l 




■>* ■<*< 


■* ^ "* 


■* 


■* 


T)t 


rH 


-* 


to 


-* 


Tt* 


tH 


tH 


■<* 


«o 


Tj* 


>o 


»o 




^ 


lO 


00 


00 


05 


(M 


05 


05 


05 


r^ 




o 


CO 


CO 


CO 


00 


o 


00 


^ 


C5 




Ci 


l« 


CO 


I^ 


00 


CO 


lO 


05 


CJ 


1^ 


05 


Tt* 


M< 




1^ 


C5 


CO 


LO 


»-H 


GO 




o 


CO 


lO 


■— 1 


-H 


00 


-H 


CO 


■— < 


-* 


00 


-* 


00 


o 


t- 


CO 


CO 


lO 


CO 


t- 




CO 


>c 


_( 


lO 


o 


CO 


CO 


(M 


(N 


Cfl 


(N 


lO 


CO 


lO 


^ 


CO 


o 


o 


(M 


.^ 




CO 


<>J 


CO 


>o 




o 


CO 


05 


00 


■* 


<>4 


o 


CO 


OJ 


(N 


C5 


^ 


r-- 


^ 


r- 




o 


— < 


00 


t> 


(N 


05 


05 


CO 


05 


-* 


rt< 


o 


CO 


o 


CO 


Tt< 


o 


CO 


CO 


CO 




C2 


t^ 


o 


CO 


O 


o 


(M 


r^ 


N 


CO 


CO 


CO 


05 


,— 1 


^H 


C5 


■^ 


LO 


_i 


o 




CO CO CO <N 


CO 


CO 


CO eo 


CO CO CO 


CO 


CO 


T« 


■<* 


CO 


Til 


Tt< 


o 


■* 




05 


tH 


CO 


^ 


o 


o 


CO 


Oi 




>o 


(N 


o 


^ 


CO (M 


lO 


o 


(N 


CO 


o 




o 


Ci 


t~i 


00 


(N 


CO 


CO 


o 


CO 


T— ( 


O 


r^ 


03 


lO 


'i< 


CO 


•* 


(N 


CO 


I-H 




(N 


CO 


o 


(M 


r^ 


lO 


r^ 


TtH 


CO 


^ 


tn 


00 


C5 


lO 


CO 


"O 




t^ 


CO 


I-H 














































>— ( 


CO 


CO 


f—i 


r^ 


CO 


CO 


00 


o 


05 


00 


o 


05 


Tt( 


OJ 


CO 


CO 


I^ 


CO 


03 




1— H 


1^ 


r^ 


fH 


Ci 


(N 


CO 


o 


(N 


C5 


CO 


r^ 


i-H 


00 


r^ 


1— H 


^H 


LO 


CO 


CO 




CO 


TlH 


o 


CO 


00 


TtH 


'^t^ 


00 


CO 


(N 


^ 


o 


CO 


05 


00 


o 


o 


CO 


lO 


o 














































00 


00 


00 


OS 


00 


o> 


o 


- 


- 


SM 


^ 


2 


lO 


■^ 


CO 


Tj* 


IC 


■* 




tH 




00 


lO 


n< 


CO (M 


03 


(N 


CO 


»o 


05 


CO 


lO 


la 


o 


C5 


r^ 


o 


o 


00 


(M 




05 


CO 


o 


Of) 


lO 


C2 


o 


r^ 


o 




o 


1^ 


no 


c^ 


o 


(N 


Ttl 




(^J 


c~ 




CO 


■— 1 


i> 


00 


<N 


o 


o 


CO 


o 


CO 


00 


•-^ 


—1 


rtH 


00 


-^ 


CO 


CO 


o 


CO 




«5 


<N 


_ 1 


C5 


CO 


00 


o 


o 


o 


(M 


o 


C5 


»o 


no 


^ 


C5 


CO 


^H 


o 


00 




-* 


O 


LO 


00 


CO 


c^ 


O!) 


00 




(N 


(N 


CO 


>o 


(M 


"+ 


00 


r^ 


r^ 


t^ 


(M 




C^ 


CO 


CO 


o 


o 


"* 


CO 


CO 


o 


CO 


■* 


<N 


c^ 


CO 


05 


00 


(N 


CO 


LO 


o 




05 Oi CO 


05 


00 o 


,—, 


o 


05 


05 


05 


00 


C5 


o 


C5 


C5 


00 


CO 


>o 


■<* 














'^ 


^ 


'~' 




























t^ 


la o 


(N 


CO 


o 


CO 




o 




05 


CO 


kO 


o 


o 




r^ 


Tt* 


lO 


CO 




co 


t- 


fN 


o 


CO 


t^ 


o 


CO 


(>J 


o 




LO 


lO 


r- 


o 


CO 


GO 


r^ 


rH 


LO 




CO 


co 


o 


05 


05 


CO 


CO 


CO 


I> 


CO 


^H 


lO 


lO 


o 


t^ 


T*< 


05 


CO 


CO 


00 




CO 


JO 


r^ 


^ 


(N 


CO 


CO 


Tt< 


o 


_l 


r~, 


GT) 


M 


o 


o 


00 


CO 


o 


>n 


o 




o 


Tt* 


»o 


f- 


r^ 


M< 


00 


o 


^ 


o 


ot 


CO 


Oi 


CO 


00 


CO 


r^ 


CD 


1-^ 


lO 




to 


I> 


00 


-* 


00 


o 


»o 


CO 


CO 


o 


Oi 


t^ 


C^J 


00 


^ 


t^ 


(M 


O l> 


o 




Ci 


CO 


^ 


>o 


CO 


C2 


CO 


CO 


r-^ 


00 


CO 


^ 


CO 


Ol 


o 


<N 


,— 1 


(M 


o 


l> 




■* 


>o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


CO 


CO 


I> 


i> 


00 


00 


00 


00 


00 


05 


C5 


05 


05 


05 




• 


M 


CO 


-^ 


»o 


co" 


r-" 


oo' 


Ci 


o" 


• 


c<f 


CO 


■*" 


lO 


CO*" 


r-^ 


00 


oT 


CO -h" 




05 


Ol 


03 


05 


o 


05 


05 


o> 


C5 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


»-H I-H 




00 


00 


00 


00 


00 


CO 


00 


00 


00 


o 


05 

1— t 


05 


Ol 


C5 


05 


C5 


05 


05 


05 


05 O 





w „- 



^ ■' O r- 



«r ::: a> 



<a 3 -e i ^ 



SB S 

.S o 






5h — 



<U OJ - ^ 



„ s 



£ S W -==5 









1-J s 



^ 00 
O lO 



o S 



F 


5 


CO 


iO 


I-H 


4) 


-1 


•* 


CD 




O 


^ 


ja 






o 


H 


(U 


O 


> 








_- 



464 



APP. IX.— AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS 



APPENDIX 



AGRICULTURAL 

Table I. — Total Acreage in England and Wales under each kind 







1866. 


18 


71. 




Euglaud. 


Wales. 


England. 


AVales. 




Acres. 


Acres. 


Acres. 


Acres. 


Total Area (in Statute Acres), - - - 


32,590,397 

1 


4,734,486 


32,.590,397 


4,734,486 


Abstract of Acreage under all kinds of 


1 








Crops, Bare Fallow, and Grass, 


22,236,737 


2,284,674 


23,717,660 


2,604,817 


Corn Crops — 










Wheat, 


3,126,431 


113,862 


3,312,550 


126,334 


Barley or Bere, 


1,877,387 


146,323 


1,964,210 


169,751 


Oats, 


1,503,990 


251,893 


1,454,144 


253,672 


Rye, 


50,570 


2,452 


,57,775 


2,338 


Beans, 


492,586 


3,534 


512,929 


4,071 


Peas, 


314,206 


3,010 


382,104 


4,534 


Total of Corn Crops, - - - 


7,365,170 


521,074 


7,683,692 


560,700 


Green Crops — 










Potatoes, ------ 


311,151 


44,266 


391,531 


51,853 


Turnips and Swedes, - - - - 


1,610,610 


62,442 


1,592,933 


69,833 


Mangold, ------ 


254,081 


3,864 


351,523 


7,380 


Cabbage, K. Rabi, and Rape, 


159,539 


1,329 


174,643 


1,062 


Carrots, - 


15,598 


295 


18,634 


341 




'Vetches, Lucerne, and any other Crop "| 


408.933 


27,069 


368,281 


6,072 




(except Clover or Grass), - - / 












Vetches or Tares, 












Lucerne, 










- 


Beet Root (except Sugar Beet), - 












f 


After 1881 


these item 


s appear se 


parately. 




Sugar Beet. - - . . - 












'^Miscellaneous Green Crops, - -J 










Total of Green Crops, - - - 


2,759,912 


139,265 


2,897,545 


136,541 


Clover, Sainfoin, and Artificial and other) 
Grasses under Rotation, - - -) 










2,296,087 


256,722 


2,694,370 


375,086 


Permanent Pastiue, Meadow or Grass, not"! 










broken up in Rotation (exclusive of V 


8,998,027 


1,257,721 


9.881,833 


1,494,465 


Heath or Mountain Land), - - - J 










Bare Fallow or Uncropped Arable Land, - 


760,979 


109,878 


484,249 


37,843 


Hops, 


56,562 


14 


60,022 


7 


Flax, 


— 


— 


15,949 


175 


Small Fruit,* 


* Not separ 


ately distin guished bef 


ore 1888. 



APP. IX.— AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS 



465 



IX. 



STATISTICS, 1866-1911. 

of Crop, Bare Fallows, Grass, Hops, Flax, and Small Fruit. 



ISSl. 


1891. 


1901. 


1911. 


Eugland. 


Wales. 


England. 


Wales. 


England. 


Wales. 


England. 


Wales. 


Acres. 


Acres. 


Acres. 


Acres. 


Acres. 


Acres. 


Acres. 


Acres. 


32,597,398 


4,721,823 


32,509,322 


4,779.343 


32,550,698 


4,776,779 


32,394,302 


4,749,651 


24,663,937 


2,784,963 


25,113,343 


2,887,791 


24,694,252 


2,823,062 


24,478,426 


2,770,397 


2,641,045 


90,026 


2,192,393 


61,590 


1,617,721 


47,019 


1,804,045 


38,487 


2,029,499 


142,318 


1,772,432 


117,101 


1,635,426 


101,907 


1,337,513 


86,800 


1,627,004 


243,544 


1,672,835 


234,055 


1,831,740 


208;773 


1,841,136 


206,037 


32,372 


1,905 


38,081 


1,086 


49,649 


1,460 


39,962 


366 


417,789 


2,538 


337,493 


1,884 


237,361 


1,215 


299,846 


1,608 


213,249 


1,984 


201,648 


1,.533 


152,185 


1,596 


166,182 


712 


6,960,958 


482,315 


6,214,882 


417,249 


5,524,082 


361,970 


5,488,684 


334,010 


347,733 


42,440 


354,606 


38,238 


415,105 


31,979 


402, .505 


26,667 


1,478,682 


66,356 


1,-367,960 


70,607 


1,144,035 


61,934 


1,066,61:5 


57,947 


339,385 


7,386 


345,405 


7,883 


386,044 


9.811 


438,916 


11,154 


138,341 


1,096 


145,764 


1.902 


161,727 


4,194 


139,513 


5,386 


13,855 


454 


14,115 


485 


t probably 


among 


J 10,441 


273 


363,957 


6,818 






" Misc. Gre 


en Crops " 


below. 








214,225 


2,145 


147,186 


1,344 


102,204 


532 






17,559 


222 


43,165 


370 


52,757 


366 






2,875 


41 ^ 


t This tota 


1 probably 


{"Carrots 


" deducted 










includes 


" Carrots." 


from tills to 


tal — see 








3'- 






above. 








169 




104,003 


847 


117,680 


775 






67,712 


659 J 










2,681,953 


124,550 


2,530,450 


122,185 


2,401,265 


110,479 


2,330,641 


103,100 


2,548,952 


331,401 


2,762,021 


324,744 


2,862,658 


400,268 


2,327,265 


281,512 


11,655,825 


1,815,413 


13,085,117 


2,012,432 


13,457,660 


1,941,365 


13,903,494 


2,046,109 


744,896 


1 31,271 


409,972 


10,069 


329,002 


7,882 


318,999 


4,764 


64,943 


— 


56,145 


— 


51,127 


— 


33,056 


— 


6,410 


13 1 1,787 


4 


630 


6 


416 


30 






52,969 


1,108 


67,828 


1,092 


76,287 


902 



2g 



466 



APP. IX.-AGRICULTURAL LIVE STOCK 



Table II. — Agricultural 





1866. 


1871. 




England. 


Wales. 


England. 


Wales. 


Horses — Used solely for Agriculture, 

Unbroken horses, - - - "\ 
Mares kept solely for breeding, - / 
Unbroken horses 1 year and above, - 
„ „ under 1 year, 


No. 

No 
Return 
before 

1869 


No. 

No 
Return 
before 

1869 


No. 
733,257 1 

229,583 1 


No. 
68,708 ^ 

48,468 ^ 


Total, - 






962,840 


117,176 


Cattle — Cows and heifers in milk or in calf. 

Other cattle : 2 years old and above. 
Ditto, 1 year and under 2, - 
Ditto, under 2 years old, 
Ditto, under 1 year, 


1,290,529 

946,975 
1,069,530 


222,546 

133,560 
185,295 


1,460,693 

981,295 
1,229,076 


250,551 

118,005 
228,032 


Total, - 


3,307,034 


541.401 


3,671,064 1 596,588 


Sheep — 1 year old and above, - 
Under 1 year old, 
Ewes kept for breeding, 


10.620,190 
4,504,351 


1,287,809 
380,854 


11,144,527 
6,385,880 


1,885,839 
820,576 


Total, 


15,124,541 


1,668,663 


17,530,407 


2,706,415 


Pigs, 

Sows kept for breeding, - - - - 
Other Pigs, 


2,066,299 


191,604 


2,078,504 


225,456 



1 Including Ponies. 



- Including ]\Iares kept for breeding. 



APP. IX.-AGRICULTURAL LIVE STOCK 



467 



Live Stock. 



IS. 


^l. 


1S91. 


1901. 


1911. 


England. 


Wales. 


England. 


Wales. 


England. 


Wales. 


England. 


Wales. 


No. 


Xo. 


No. 


No. 


No. 


No. 


No. 


No. 


772,087 1 


72,2081 


796,869 


80,645 


843,624 2 


91,876 2 


843,632 2 
StalUons ^ 
6,323 


93,117 * 
Stallions* 
1,495 


322,0161 


65,5591 


300,674 
45,507 


57,015 
12,526 


















223,430 


41,504 


195,573 


36,443 










94,860 


21,244 


87,053 


20,367 


1,094,103 


137,767 


1,143,050 


150,186 


1,161,914 


154,624 


1,132,581 


151,442 










Other horse 
To 


s, 
tal, - 


125,741 


11,175 




1,2.58,322 


162,597 












In Milk, 


1,630,039 


237,355 


1,621,249 


260,480 


1,917,078 


294,599 


1,887,414 


280,899 

In Calf but 

not in 

Milk, 


1 473,461 


47,025 


1.103,389 


132,753 


1,114,301 


126,832 


1,059,495 


94,472 


1,038,708 


89,607 










944,205 


179,914 


1,037,107 


174,470 


1,435,447 


262 112 


1,838,836 


337,878 


















900,421 


187,793 


989,661 


191,814 


4,160,085 


655,345 


4,870,215 


759,309 


4,791,535 


743,078 


5,173,976 


740,271 


9,818,852 


1,771,213 


10,783,208 


2,139,367 


3,420,482 


845,693 


3,359,815 


795,578 


5,564.004 


695.732 


7,091,514 


1,094,569 


6,282,168 


1,217,963 


6,419,615 


1,285,567 










5,845,407 


1,364,078 


5,960,099 


1,509,976 


15,382,856 


2,466,945 


17,874,722 


3,233,936 


15,548,057 


3,427,734 


15,739,529 


3,591,121 


1,733,280 


191,792 


2,461,185 


270,082 


















268,909 


35,446 


333,786 


41,797 






Tota 


1, 


1,573,224 


177,525 


2,080,942 


194,514 




1,842,133 


212,971 


2.414,728 


236,311 



^ Above 2 years old used, or intended to be used, for service. 



468 



APP. X.— AGRICULTURAL WAGES 



2 H 



:^ ® <s 



=:? p-t 



•—I ^ 





^ 


>> 


n 


o 








crt 










o 

CO 
00 






s 
^ 






'~* 


73 
3 


a 


^ 


















•■^ 


o 


u 








o 


_ui 


■^ 


^' 








-p 










^^ 


o 


o 


^ 






CO 


05 




o 




X 

1— 1 


00 


o 
H 


43 
to' 

CI 

1 


^3 
CI 

.2 




ft 


o 




(E 




^ 


l> 


IS 


•4J 


CI 






00 

CD 










< 


tT 




■? 


Is 






i 


^ 


o 


2 






bO 


o 




(^ 


















o 


■^ 








.y 




§ 


03 






09 


^ 


tA) 


ri 








S-, 










&0 


OJ 










,« 


> 


o 
O 


>, 






!^ 


0) 










o 




o 






"cS 


J3 


o 


a 






3 




CI 


© 


o 




"3 


CO 

a 


a 

"-3 


13 




t 




Oh 


<D 


fl 




M 


+3 


-1 


> 






<: 


M 


« 


o 










o 




o 




o 






tl) 








O 




n 


a> 




ffi 












rft 


-i-i 


c 


a 




-§ 




.« 


-»i 


to 




H 


ocT 


^ 

^ 


03 



2 ^ 







■TSCOOOOOOOOOtJHOS-^ 


o 




o 


»-H 














'"' 


05-CO<MCOTt<COlO(M<NO 


■* 






'^'cOOOcCOfOCOCDO 


00 




CO 








c. 








'"' 


05*(M(M<NC<I(Mt)<^OCO 


IM 






'Sooo<r!cooooco 


t^ 












Oi 








'"' 


.^•(M(Mrtrt(MTj<(N(NiC 


(N 






TSCOCBCOCOOMCOOO 


O 


^ 


c-i 






2 










s 


o:S<l(MiMCO(N'*<N(N10 


M 


o 








pQ 








c« 








,j 
















2 




'«' O OS M O ■<* O 


(N 


3 


IN 


1 1 1 




3 


00 


^ C^ 1 »n (N (M 1 fO M 1 


00 


.^ 




^H i-H I-H »— i »— ( (-H 


f— 1 


U, 
















>> 








rt 


o 


'S'-^OTtlMO^lOO 


CO 






r-H i-H , 




-3 


ci 


j^-rt— (-hp^OCOOO ' 


^ 


o 


^ 




'-^ 










o 

1 










"ecooMooot^t^o 


^_l 


^ 


o 

to 






>i 


rt 


jjOO-^OOffOOOCO 


I-H 










3 








^ 














1 


^* 


'SO OOOOO— lO 


-' 


g 


o 


1 




<5 


<x> 


uJOi loOOSOOOOOt^lM 


Oi 












-^OCOrfHOCOO-^TjfO 


■* 




si 








09 


C(;05CiOO0i(MOO«<l 


o 






^ 








"et^ TJHO (M-^JOOO 


o 




•^ 


. . 














cc 


o^CO loses loOOO— 1 


05 




o 


•^'CO C20»0000<£) 


CO 




r^ 


1 






- 


oj'C- lt~l:^I>t>aOl~I> 


c^ 






•^ ~: . . . ■ 1 . . . . 


■ 


-a 




G ':i:) 




c 








ce 


ro 


^ 1 - c to 




tc 


.2 


, 


p 


-♦-» 




5 


3 

O 

O 




> 

<i3 



APP. X.— AGRICULTURAL WAGES 



469 







'e'lMoooTitoio-Hfooo-'i'OTtt 




'eoo-H^coooocociM 


05 




c5 


1— < 1— 1 






















C-. 


05'MTi(f0'r;ir5t>-q<r-(Mi0OTjHTiH 


»o 


o^-tHCO— H(NC0CO'#CO(M'^ 


n 






's'ooooooasocooooo 





'eooooooococoo 






SP 




■—1 




-H 




5: 


03--Hf0<Mrt<l0Of0l0-HrJ<»0T#T*l 


so 


^•■<*<rO'-<c^<M»r5T)<(M-H-<i( 


(M 












" 






ts® oofo 000 000 





'soooco 0000 













1 1 


^ 






^•0 l-<Tt4Tt4 ItJHOIM llO(M-< 


M 


c^-tHIOOoI I'f-iOiM 


^H 








" 




^^ 


m 




tsooooocs oeo ocoo 


^ 


'b'cooocooooooo 





o 












s 


GO 










3 


S 


05-(MT)<(MCOfOiO 'com liOCOTff 


^ 


^. ^co^cofO<M(:ofO(NfO 


(M 


,0 






'"* 




"^ 


























tJO 00(MO 00-*0 





•^'oo-^oiooicooico 


-H 




C-J 






















rJ 


CO 


t,'Tl<lM>Oolcol IcO-^COlC 


TjH 


05-(:0-<O'*(MI:-THTt<-<C0 


CO 


'u 




F-( 1— I^Hr— 1 r— 1 ^H^Hi— I^H 




^H 


bo 






















3 





■^t- OC0(N 0-* OCifMO 


10 


'8OOT)H<0C0'-HO<X)t>'-H 





^ 


«-; 


1 i-H 1 '■^ 1 




I-H 


-H 


^3 


<r. 










si 





:,-0 'OTtHJO l-Hio l<MeOC<)(M 


<M 


05--H00500M'-HOO-H 







"o 


^ 


"""" 


" 




-H 


1 




"SO 000 OCi OOOCi 





'^ooq-^ioooooocoo 


I-H 


^ 













'"' 


>. 


^ 


o^oIms<Im'-h<mI liN-^O 


p^ 


,^^HOOttC5C5*— '00050 


OS 






" --- --< --- 


^^ 














1 


r-" 


■^"OCOOO 000 CDO<» 


>o 


"e 


(M 


> 





oo'C-OOOlCq' 'osOOj'oiOQO 


Ci 


^1 1 c^ i> 1 1 1 1 |> 1 


t> 


< 
















'S OCOOOOOOOOOt-O 





'SOOOOOOOOOOCO 







1^ 








I-H 




CO 












S 


5o" ' QOOC-lOOOSfNOiasOOO 





o;OOOI>C1000C500000 


00 


















"S 












s 




g 






-S 




s 








.'§'«' OCl —IM 001>0 


00 


«'« «5pHC0«-HO<Mt^(M 


«<l 




^^ 


^11 II II 

JO loO-^l '000' '00500 




!^ 1 '^ '^ 






^ 





'-^c^- lc^c0O5t^OX00l>Q0 


00 






•va ^H .-H ^H 




■< ^ 








CO 




•*^ 








B 




s 






■^ 




^ . 









^'TS'tOOO 000 000 


i-H 


"e 00 










§ III 1 


t- 


"^ II llll 1 


CO 




" 


s 




s 








"g 




^ 


, 






G 




'S 






.- 


^ 




•S 

^ . ^ . 




0: 


<u 


■^ llll •^"itlll 


1 


2 -r ® ^- -2 .£3 -^ « 


, 


5 


3 

■0 


1 ||| .-s . .-g 

:? Ill llll 111 2 il 


> 
< 


> 



470 



APP. X.-AGRICULTURAL WAGES 






-^ Oi»0©0000 © 



■tjOOO OOO CD © 



'e ©coocococo©co CO 



'COt- OI>IMCOCOO O 



-^OMOfMOOCO©-*© ■* 



tiOO©©?^ ©COfOCO CO 

5g'^0(MTt* l-^M-^eo CO 



TS © 



©CO © © © © 
-H TO --^ © ' -^ •* 



'S©©©© ©©©© © 
^•fO<MC<l(M lc<><M(M(N IN 



'80OJO©© ioco©ro © 

05-©(M©-H I— ©<M© (M 



•IcO '©©©©'© © 



§ -« 



bo 



■S ^ 



(3 



>^^ S § 



CD C 



o o 



•3 lC 3 L», r; ,^ 

=S C3 r^ O f^ "^ X 

-c o ^ a- "S -* -t^ 

s § S J ►P o o 

Q ij] ;zi 02 ^ >^ 12; 






;S^ 



w 5^ cs 5 e fl 8 H 
■^ .^ cj .2 ■§ o 1*5 ^ 

c! C "S O -^ ~ Q 






CO 



, cs 



> IB ■" b :£ cr> i; .? 
"*^ .S ^ -S 2 ^ Si -* 

'=o2 ^ 5" ^ S "- = 






o « S ^ 



'" fl* flu ^ 

i- — O .^ 

■^ Si, c s --I *^ 

-^ 6D— ■ a 05 o 

•^ QJ CO S; ^, « 

cs 3 K S -■ 

-2 -? ^M (B . 






J a o 

-^ J' .a -9 1-1 

3 s ^ ^ ~~' 

.2 ~ s t^ >» a 

i- tH ,° 00 -o o 

* ,^-'' ^ C a 

=S S:g a SW 

's'SC^ ^-^^ 

;=-^"-^§ 
S a "*^-= e cs 

cofo g ^ S^^ii a^---5&^.-S-o 
« o «tj s s^lT-^ §■ a r 0:2 S 2 1^ 









- !£ '^i 
s S- o 



P 2— S 



a « a 



S^ £16 ° ts ,, ^ 
" ^ ^ "t^ t> ^^ ^ '^"^ 



;j5 J. 



gb^^ 5P 



■§f^§ f 



•lo-'^d^l °M^^' 



1 F^ (3 



V2 1^ ■ 









o' g 



3<S li^-i S St'l'i •- 

? .»^ -. is ?. (D o '^ a "^ 



S '^ 



-SOD 5-5^^5jf'p-=:^-3~s 

S . a M i' " .£ S ^ g'.'^ 



5^ 2 a ;:^ 

s s is a 



c 0) ;i 



c^^^^ 



S a, X g^' 
a ^ X te>i: 



o i; « :/c ^ .2 =* ^ .^ " -"^ 
o — ' > a e ^ — ~o 



.g--Sg^ j,^^' 



.iS „-rt- S t. 2-a';s— ^ 
~ ^^'^ ^-iJ S^ ofsHcHOss:^; to 



WW 



INDEX. 



Abbs Court, Lord Halifax at, 172. 

Aherdeen- Angus Polled Herd-Book, 
The, 373. 

Abraham man, the, 76. 

Acorns, bread made from, 84. 

Acorn fever, the, 386. 

Acreage of England and Wales, 145 ; 
in 1688, 455, 464, 465 ; unen- 
closed, in 1696, 152 ; in eighteenth 
century, 154. 

Acts of Parliament affecting the Corn 
Trade, 1360-1869, U2 seq. 

Actus, the Roman, 279. 

Addington, Stephen, his Inquiry into 
the Reasons for and against inclosing 
Open Fields, 303. 

Adulteration of food-stuffs, 379, 381. 

" Advantage-bread," 449. 

Affers, 12. 

Agistment, on commons, 27, 158. 

Agriculture, under Elizabeth, 91 seq. ; 
under James I., 104 ; advance of, 
in eighteenth and nineteenth cen- 
turies, 148 ; fashionable, under 
George II., 173 ; and George III., 
207; in 1837, 346; (1837-1846), 
370; (1850-1851), 370; (1853- 
1862), 370; (1853-1874), 372; 
(1874-1885), 374 seq., 382; (1883- 
1890), 380; (1891-1899), 374, 380 ; 
in 1901, 382 ; in 1888 and 1912, 
393 56?.; in 1837 and 1912, 346, 
353, 354, 355 ; advance but small 
since " the fifties," 346 ; " apron 
string " farmers, 348 ; branches 
of, in modern times, 383 ; com- 
mercial basis, organisation of, on 
a, 48, 205, 290, 407, 413, 414; 
Departixient of Agriculture, a, 379 ; 
drainage in modern times, 362- 
365 ; extravagance blamed for 
distress, 347 : not altogether justly, 
348 ; essentially different from 
manufacture, 383 ; economic, etc., 
problems not to be solved in the 
same way as urban, 417 ; founda- 
tion and administration of the 
Royal Agricultural Society, q.v. ; 



low level of agriculture in 1837, 
355 ; notable improvements in 
1837-74, 361 ; manures, 364-368 ; 
education, q.v. ; depression of 
agricultural industry, from 1814, 
322 seq. : reorganisation of, 325. 

Agriculture, The Annals of, and 
Robert Bakewell, 185 ; started by 
Arthur Young, 196 ; George III. 
a contributor to, 196, 207 : on 
enclosure, 307. 

Agriculture, Board of, established by 
Pitt in 1793, 196, 209 ; Reports 
to, 225 seq. (and see Reports) ; 
Report of 1795, on uncultivated 
lands, 152 ; Sir Humphry Davy's 
lectures in 1803, 216, 359 ; and 
the Enclosure Bill of 1800, 251 ; 
on open-fields, 157 ; on voluntary 
enclosure, 162 ; Communications 
to the Board of Agriculture, 314 ; 
dissolved in 1822, 359 ; recom- 
mended potatoes, 135 ; (at the 
present day) article in Nineteenth 
Century for April, 1889, 400 ; 
responsibilities transferred from 
private owners to the State, 400. 

Agriculture, Chambers of. Central 
and Associated Chambers founded 
in 1866, 405. 

Agricultural Committee, of 1833, 
326 ; of 1836, 325, 326. 

Agricultural Commission of 1879 
(Duke of Richmond's), 377, 378, 
380, 410. 

Agricultural Customs, Select Com- 
"^mittee on, of 1848, 370. 

Agricultural Gazette, The, 361. 

Agricultural Holdings Act, of 1875, 
379, 405 ; of 1908, 406. 

Agricultural Labourers' Union, the, 
410 ; initial success of, 410 ; defeat 
of, in 1874, 411 ; and the Federal 
Union, 411. 

Agricultural Population, Census Re- 
turns for 1851, 1861 and 1871, 460 ; 
for 1881, 1891 and 1901, 461. 

Agricultural Rates Act of 1896, 382. 



472 



INDEX 



Agricultural Returns, the (1866), 361. 

Agricultural Societies. See Societies. 

The Agricultural State of the Kingdom 
in February, March, and April, 
1816 . . . being the Substance of 
the Replies to a Circular Letter sent 
by the Board of Agriculture, etc., 320. 

Agricultural Statistics, 460 seq. 

Aire, the, 117, 277. 

Alcester, the needle industry at, 310. 

Aldsworth, 232. 

Ale, Assize of, 448. 

Alice Holt Woods, the, 391. 

Allen, William, his Landlord's Com- 
panion, 262. 

Allotments, a benefit to the labourer, 
409, 416 ; as compensation for 
common-rights, often sold before 
awarded, 408 ; The Labourers' 
Union and, 410 ; and parish- 
farms, 408. 

Allowances, Parish, 327, 436. 

Althorp, Lord, 208 ; on tithes, 345. 

America, corn from, after 1815, 271, 
273; the Civil War in, 371 ; in- 
crease of trade with, after 1815, 
317 ; industrial collapse in 1873-4, 

375 ; influx of wheat from, in 1879, 

376 ; innovations from, 356 ; our 
war with, 268. 

Amherst, Hon. Ahcia. See Mrs. 

Evelyn Cecil. 
Ammonia, sulphate of, 366. 
Andover, Edgar's ordinance at, 336. 
Anglice Notitia, 86. 
Anthrax, 386. 
Apathy of landowners at the present 

day, 399-401. 
Appleioy Stringbinder, the, 387. 
Apples, 136. 
Apprentices, Statute of (1563), 87, 

88. 
Appropriators, ecclesiastical, 339, 

340. 
" Apron-string " farmers, 348. 
Arab horses, 183. 
Arable land, converted to pasture, 

42, 58, 69, 66, 72, 99 ; at Wel- 

combe, 68 ; sheep on, 95 ; under 

the Tudors, 121 ; in 1700, 154. 
Arbuthnot, John, his Inquiry into 

the connection between the present 

price of provisions and the Size of 

Farms, 303. 
Arch, Joseph, 410 ; his evidence 

before the Agricultm-al Commission 

in 1881, 410. 
Argentina, meat fronti, 378. 
Arkwright, Richard, 181, 205. 
Armstrong College, 390. 
Artichokes, Jerusalem, 135, 



Artisan, the, his lot compared with 
that of the labourer, 414, 415. 

Ashes, as manure, 110. 

Aspatria College, 390. 

Assart lands, 38, 55, 71, 72. 

Assize of Bread, 256, 448 seq. ; in 
1497, 448 ; in 1710, 448, 449 ; in 
1758, 449; in 1794-1812, 450; 
in 1795, 451 ; in 1812, 450 ; in 
1813, 451 ; in 1822, 451 ; in 1836, 
451 ; discontinued in 1822, 256, 
451 ; abolished finally in 1836, 451. 

Assized loaves, 450. 

Aston Boges, 6, 24. 

Atkins, Mr., of Cler ken well, dealer 
in refuse, 191. 

Attleborough, 240. 

Atwell, George, his Faithful Sur- 
veyor, 428. 

Atwood, G., his Review of the Statutes 
and ordinances of Assize, 1202-1797, 
448. 

Augustine, tithes at the time of his 
landing in England, 333. 

Austin, Ralph, his Treatise of Fruit 
Trees, 427. 

Avers, 12. 

Avon, the, 276, 277. 

Awdeley, John, The Fraternitye of 
Vacabondes, 76. 

Awre, Lord Berkeley at, 32. 

Axholme, Isle of, 114, 119, 247, 304. 

Aylesbury, Vale of, 198 ; farming 
in 1770, 198. 

Ayrshire Herd-book Society, the, 373. 

Babraham, Sir H. Palavicino of, 114 ; 
Jonas Webb of, 354. 

Bacon, Francis, on enclosures, 60 ; 
on yeomen, 296 ; his love of 
gardening, 101. 

Badgers, 264. 

Bagshot mutton, 178. 

Bailey, J., and Culley G., their Cum- 
berland, 48, 226 ; their Northum- 
berland, 177, 222, 226. 

Baize trade, at Coggeshall, 308, 
309. 

Bakers' allowances under the Assize 
of Bread. 448. 

Bakewell, Robert, 139, 149, 176, 177, 
181, 354; accoimt of him, 184; 
his bankruptcy, 185 ; his canals 
and irrigation, 184 ; his household, 
185 ; his reticence and jealousy, 
184 ; ploughs with cows, 184 ; 
lets his rams, etc., 184, 186 ; gives 
sheep the rot, 184 ; his experiments 
with horses, 183. 355 ; with cattle, 
187 ; with sheep, 186. 

Baldon, cottagers at, 306. 



INDEX 



473 



Balgrave, Joseph, his Epitome of 
Husbandry, 428. 

Balks, 23, 24, 155, 156. 

Ballads, against enclosure, 62, 67. 

Balmoral, royal farm at, 360. 

Baltic, the. Government buys corn 
in, 265 ; anticipated closing of, in 
1800, 270; closed by Crimean 
War, 371. 

Bamptons (sheep), 178. 

Banbury, a canal port, 277 ; cheeses, 
136 ; industries at, 310 ; market 
at, 222. 

Bangor, turnpikes on road to Shrews- 
bxiry, 284. 

Banks, panics, 2\l seq., 374, 375; 
Bank of England, restricts its note 
issue, 211 ; suspends pajonent, 212; 
the Bank Restriction Act, 212. 

Bannockburn, Battle of, 160. 

Banstead mutton, 178. 

Barber's Furlong, 26. 

Barley, the drink-corn of the Middle 
Ages, 9. 

Barnard Castle, tram at, 351. 

Barnes, William (the Dorset poet), on 
commons, 305. 

Barren Lands Act, the, 343. 

Barrier Treaty, the, 173. 

Barton-upon-Humber, 153. 

Barton, John, his Observations . . . 
on the condition of the Labouring 
Classes, 320 ; his Inquiry into the 
Causes of the Progressive Deprecia- 
tion of Agricidtural Labour, 320. 

Basic slag, 366, 384. 

Basildon, Jethro Tull born at, 170. 

Bastard, Thomas, 62 ; his Chresto- 
leros, 63. 

Batchelor, Thomas, his Bedfordshire, 
242. 

Bates, Thomas, his Shorthorns, 354. 

Bawtry, a port, 276. 

Beaconsfield, Burke at, 208. 

Beale, John, his Herefordshire Or- 
chards, 427. And see Anthony 
Lawrence. 

Beaminster, industries at, 312. 

Beans, as food for slaves, 199. 

Beccles, hemp at, 136, 193, 309. 

Becon, Thomas, his Jewel of Joy, 62, 
123. 

Bederepes, or Bedrips, 11. 

Bedford, Francis, 4th Earl of, 117; 
William, 5th Earl of, 117 ; Francis, 
5th Duke of, 207, 208 : his sheep- 
shearings, 221 ; 11th Duke of, his 
Maulden scheme, 415, 416. 

Bedford Level, the, \\1 seq. 

Bedfordshire, Report on (Stone), 
241 ; (Batchelor), 242, 248. 



Bees, 18 ; in Stewart times, 106. 
Beetle, a Dover-court, 10 ; a clotting, 

10. ^ 

Belgium, receipts per cultivated acre 

five times as large as Great Britain, 

401. 
Bell, Rev. Patrick, his reaping- 
machine, 358. 
Bellers, John, his Proposal for Rais- 
ing a College of Industry, etc., 

430. 
Bellot, James, his Booke of Thrifte, 

419, 422 ; (of Caen), his Jardin 

de Vertu, 419. 
Bells on teams, 205. 
Belvoir, Vale of, the best corn-land 

in Europe, 136, 168. 
Benese, Richard, his Bolce shewing 

the maner of lande, etc., 420. 
Berkeley, Lady Joan, 32, 33. 
Berkeley, Estates, the, 10, 17, 18, 

31 seq., 45 seq. 
Berkeleys, the, 31, 32, 44, 45. 
Berkshire, Report on (Pearce), 234 ; 

(Mavor), 293 ; industries of, 309 ; 

parish allowances in, 327, 436. 
Berlin decree, the, 270. 
Berthelet, Thomas, his edition of 

Fitzherbert, 90. 
Best, Henry, 8 ; his Farming Book, 

84, 88, 91, 93, 106, 425. 
Beverley, road from Hull to, 153. 
Beverley reaper, the, 358, 369. 
Beverston, Lord Berkeley's sheep at, 

45. 
" Billanders," 276. 
Billingsley, John, his Somersetshire, 

232, 294. 
Binders, 387. 
Bingham, out-door relief refused at, 

330. 
Birmingham, yeomen seek employ- 
ment in, 296 ; industries at, 310. 
Bishop, the, his right to appoint to 

benefices, 338. 
Bishton, J., his Shropshire, 228. 
Black Death, the, 4kO seq., 4:4:, 52, 

65, 75. 
Black Horse, the (and see Horses 

and Bakewell), 183, 184. 
Black Mountains, the, in Hereford- 
shire, 228. 
" Black Prince of the North, the " 

(John Grey of Dilston), 318. 
Blackstone, Sir W., on yeomen, 296. 
Blakeney, export of corn from, in 

eighteenth century, 194. 
Blandford, industries at, 312. 
" Blind Jack of Knaresborough,"^ 

284. 
Blindness, in oats, 386. 



474 



INDEX 



Blith, Walter, his story, 113; his 
English Improver improved, 91, 
110, 113, 123, 426; on drainage, 
112, 114, 118, 119, 120 ; on tenant- 
right, etc., 113; advocates en- 
closure, 113, 123, 165, 166; his 
water level, 114 ; on extravagance 
of farmers, 347. 

Blome, Richard, his Oentleman'a 

1 Recreation, 430. 

Blood, manurial value of, 110, 367. 

Bloomfield, Robert, his Farmer^ s Boy, 
193. 

Bloxham, industries at, 310. 

Blundeville, Thomas, his Power 
chiefysl offices belonging to Horse- 
manshippe, 105 ; his translation of 
Grisone's Arte of Ryding, 421. 

Blunt, Col., of Gravesend, ploughs 
with one horse, 109. 

Board of Agriculture. See Agri- 
culture. 

Board of Trade. See Trade. 

" Board " land. See Bord-Iand. 

"Bobbin" (Martha Ann Yoimg), 
197. 

Bocking, industries at, 309. 

Bohemia, cattle plague originated 
in, 149. 

Bolingbroke, at Dawley, 173. 

Bolymong, 11, 93. 

Bondmen, 20, 21, 40, 47, 52; at 
Castle Combe, 43. 

Bones, imports of, in 1827 and 1837, 
366 ; as manure, 366 ; Sheffield 
Bone-dust, 194, 218. 

Boon-days, 48. 

Booth, Thomas and John, their 
Shorthorns, 354. 

Bordars, 20, 22. 

Borde, Andrew, his Dyetary, 84, 100. 

Bordeaux mixtixre, 386. 

Bord-land, the, 6. 

Borlase, William (Cornish antiquary), 
on the extravagance of labourers, 
347. 

Boston, 276. 

Bosworth, Battle of, 57, 65. 

Bounties. See Corn Laws. 

Bovates, 22. 

Bow, Sir J. B. Lawes' works at, 367. 

Boys, John, his Kent, 293. 

Bradfield, home of Arthur Young, 
195. 

Bradley, Lord Berkeley at, 32. 

Bradley, Prof. Richard, on English 
horses, 183 ; on drains, 192 ; and 
WorHdge's machine, 171 ; his 
Complete Body of Husbandry, 134, 
192 ; his Oentleman and Farmer's 
Guide, 168, 183 ; his Survey of 



Ancient Husbandry, 419 ; edits 
Houghton's Collection, 430. 

Brandersham, 26. 

Brandon, the, 116. 

Bread, Assize of, 256, 448 seq. 
under Elizabeth, 84 ; pure, 132 
" bread treet," 449 ; wastell, 449 
white, 451 ; wheaten, standard 
wheaten, and household, 450. 

Bredon, 229. 

Brent marsh, 232, 294. 

Bridges, legislation in Tudor times, 
281 ; magistrates and, 281. 

Bridgnorth,' 228, 276. 

Bridgwater, Duke of, his canal, 278. 

BridUngton Quay, 153. 

Bridport, industries at, 312. 

Brigg, 153. 

Brillat-Savarin, 107. 

Brindley, James, 278. 

Brinklow, Henry, 62. 

Bristol, 276 ; Fruit and Cider In- 
stitute at, 390. 

Broad ox-gang, 21. 

Bromwich, nail industry at, 310. 

Broseley, garden-pot industry at, 
310. 

Brougham, Lord, his Speech on Agri- 
cultural Distress (9 April, 1816), 
320. 

Brouncker's ploughs, 104. 

Brown, Robert (farmer at Markle), 
his West Riding of Yorkshire, 226, 
251, 295. 

Brown, Robert (of Inverness), his 
Letters on the Distressed State of 
Agriculturists, 319. 

Brown, Thomas, his Derbyshire, 294. 

Buckingham, Duke of, his steward, 
151. 

Buckinghamshire, Report on (James 
and Malcolm), 234 : industries in, 
309. 

Buckwheat, ploughing in, 95. 

Bullock's Hill, St. Faith's fair, 218. 

Burghley, Lord, fond of gardening, 
101. 

Burial grounds, 335 ; and tithes, 336, 
337. 

Burke, Edmund, his experiments in 
carrots at Beaconsfield, 208. 

Burning land, 107. 

Burrell, Andrewes, his Brief e Relation, 
etc., 116, 425; his discovery in 
Wisbeach river, 116; his attacks 
on Vermuyden, 117: his patent 
draining machine, 104. 

Burslem wares, 276. 

Burwell Fen, 245. 

Bury St. Edmunds, manure from, 
192. 



INDEX 



475 



Butler, Charles, his Feminine 

Monarchie, 106. 424. 
Butler, Mrs. Josephine E., her 

Memoirs of John Grey of Dilston, 

318. 
Butter, 389, 390 ; spurious, 379. 
" Butts," 24. 
Byerly Turk, 183. 
Byngham, Captain, 99. 

C, H., The Drayning of Fennes, 115, 
425. 

Caird, Sir James, 361, 382 ; his 
letters to the Times, 370 ; his 
English Agriculture in 1850-1, 370, 
470 ; his High Farming, etc., 371 ; 
his evidence in 1886, 378. 

Caistor, 153. 

Calcot, 5. 

Calder, the, 277. 

Caledonian Bank, failure of the, 
375. 

Calendar, the Julian, 9. 

Calthorpe, Charles, his Relation be- 
tween the Lord of a Manor and a 
Copyholder, his Tenant, 425. 

Calves, travelling, 204. 

Cam, the, 116. 

Cambridge, the " Lincolnshire Ox " 
at, 181 ; a port, 276 ; experiments 
at, 387. 

Cambridgeshire, Report on (Van- 
couver), 242, 244, 247 ; (Gooch), 
243 ; its bad reputation, 241, 243 ; 
industries of, 309 ; petition from, 
in 1816, 320. 

Camomile, 312. 

Canada, com from, 274. 

Canals, 114, 211, 276 seg. ; the first 
true canal, 278 ; Canal Acts in 
eighteenth century, 278 ; in nine- 
teenth century, 350 ; Mersey and 
Trent, 278 ; Thames and Avon, 
277 ; ancillary rail-ways, 351, 
352 ; and railways in 1830, 353. 

Canal du Midi, the, 114. 

Canary seed, 136, 312. 

Candlemass, 25, 34. 

Canley, Webster of, 187. 

Canterbury, silk industry at, 309. 

Canute, and tithes, 337. 

Capital, imder Elizabeth, 78 : at the 
present day, 401. 

Capitahst farmers, 215, 221, 222, 290, 
349, 372. 

Caraways, 136; in Essex, 193, 312. 

Carew, Richard, his Cornwall, 164. 

Carle hemp, 30. 

Carlisle, parish allowances stopped 
at, 330. 

CaroUne, Queen, 173. 



Carrots, 102 ; in Suffolk, 193 ; at 
Beaconsfield, 208. 

Carrs, 25. 

Carrs, the, 153. 

Carruthers, on pastures, 384. 

Carucate, 21. 

Casting-shovel, the, 93. 

Castle Combe, 43. 

Cathcart, Lord, 173. 

Catherine, Queen, gets salad from 
Flanders, 102. 

Cato, the Censor, 33, 419. 

Catthorp Common, enclosure at, 126. 

Cattle (and see Stock), 13, 14, 95, 96, 
137, 138 ; of commoners, 159 ; 
importation prohibited from Ire- 
land, 143 ; numbers of, in 1866 
and 1874, 373 ; pedigree cattle, 
372 ; points of, 185 ; varieties of, 
179, 373 ; The Cattle Diseases 
Prevention Act of 1866, 372 ; The 
Contagious Diseases of Annnals 
Act of 1896, 381. 

Cattle Plague, the, of eighteenth cen- 
tury, 149 ; of nineteenth century, 
372. 

Caughley, industries at, 310. 

" Causey," the Roman, 116, 

Cavendish, William, Marquis and 
Duke of Newcastle, his books, 183, 
427. 

Caxton, tollbar at, 282. 

Cecil, Hon. Mrs. Evelyn, her Mayster 
Ion Gardener, 102, 419. 

Census, the first official, in 1801, 
266; in 1811, 266. 

Centrifuge principle, the, 389. 

Gertayne Causes gathered together 
(enclosures), 66. 

St. Chad, 9. 

Chalk, 95, 100, 109; in Essex, 192; 
as manure, 366. 

Chahners, George, his Estimate of the 
Comparative Strength of Great 
Britain, 145. 

Chamberlajme, Edward, his Angliae 
Notitia, 86. 

"Champion" land, 66, 72, 97, 123, 
156 ; in Suffolk, 192. 

Charcoal industry, the, in Surrey, 309. 

Charles I., and the Bedford Level, 
117 ; his income for 1637-41, 141 ; 
feudal dues under, 141 ; New- 
market races, 183 ; and the Com 
Laws, 258. 

Charles II., income provided for, 
142 ; his Royal Mares, 183 ; high- 
way rates under, 282 ; his Bee- 
master, Rusden, 430. 

Charlock 386. 

Chat Moss, 364. 



476 



INDEX 



Chatteris, 245. 

Chaucer, 21, 25, 49. 

Cheese, 14, 390; in seventeenth 
century, 109 ; Barnaby Googe on, 
109 ; Parmesan, Dutch, French, 
and Enghsh, 109 ; Banbuiy, Che- 
shire and Cheddar, 136 ; Stilton, 
187 ; of Suffolk, 193 ; at Windsor 
farm, 360 ; American, 376 ; Brie, 
Camembert, Gervais, 390. 

Chemistry, agricultiu-e and, 385, 386. 

Cherries, 136. 

Cherwell, the, 277. 

Cheshire, Report on (Wedge), 227 ; 
(Holland), 295 ; yeomen in 1621, 
83 ; Agricultural Institute, 390. 

Chester, port of, 276. 

Cheshunt Common, 238 ; grazed by 
stock-jobbers, 159. 

Chevallier, Dr. John, 354. 

Child, Robert (1651), author of the 
Large Letter, 109, 426 ; on bees, 
106; 112, 115, 119 (on reclama- 
tion), 120 ; on cattle, 180 ; on 
gardening, 102 ; his Eight Ques- 
tions as to Enclosure, 124, 126. 

Childersley, enclosure at, 242, 243. 

Chiver, Patent for improved Courses 
of Husbandry, 104. 

Cholesburv (Bucks), state of the 
parish, 330. 

Le Choyselat, Prudent, his Discours 
Oeconomique . . . , 422. 

Church, the, disendowment of, in 
England, 402 ; in Wales, 402, 
403 ; and present day politics, 402. 

Churchey, George, 424. 

Churton, R., his Olde Thrift Newly 
Revived, etc., 424. 

Cibber, Colley, The Provoked Hus- 
band, 283. 

Cider, 1 8 ; from turnips, 111; The 
National Fruit and Cider Institute, 
390. 

Cirencester, 80 ; industries at, 311 ; 
Agricultural College founded in 
1845, 361. 

Civil wars, the, agricultural progress 
checked by, 104 ; drainage in the 
fens checked by, 117, 119. 

Claridge, John, his Dorsetshire, 233. 

Clark, John, his Herefordshire, 228, 
301. 

Clarke, Sir Ernest, on Fitzherbert, 90. 

Clarkson, William, his Inquiry into 
Pauperism and the Poor Rates, 314, 
320. 

Clay, as manure, 366. 

Clay lands, difficulties of, 324, 325, 
326, 371 ; of Essex, 379 ; in 1837, 
348, 362 ; and manure, 365. 



Cleveland Bays, 355. 

Cloth, English, under Elizabeth, 79, 
81 ; foreign wool and, 189 ; West 
Country, in eighteenth century, 
178. 

Clotting beetle, 10. 

Clover, 104 ; field cultivation of, and 
SirR. Weston, 107; 108, 110; not 
possible on open-fields, 122 ; im- 
portance of, 176 ; reluctance to 
grow it, 134, 202 ; in Essex, 202 ; 
in Hertfordshire, 191 ; in Suffolk, 
193. 

Clun Forest, mutton from, 178, 228. 

Clydesdales, 355. 

Coaches, family-coaches, 283 ; mail- 
coaches, 284 ; railway-coaches, 353 ; 
stage-coaches, 282 ; steel springs 
on carriages, 283. 

Coalport, industries at, 310. 

Coats, George, of Carlton, his General 
Short-horned Herd Book, 354. 

Cobbett, William, editor of Jethro 
Tull, 109 ; on Thomas Coke, 220. 

Cobhain (Kent), sainfoin at, 136. 

Cobham (Surrey), iron mills at, 309. 

Cockers, 12. 

Codware, 94. 

Cogan, Thomas, his Haven of Helthe, 
79. 

Coggeshall, poor rates at, 308 ; 
baize trade at, 308, 309. 

Coinage, and Currency, changes in, 
73 ; restored under Elizabeth, 78, 
81 ; at end of eighteenth century, 
211, 261, 317. 

Coke, Sir Edward, Lord Chief Justice, 
and enclosures at Stratford-on- 
Avon, 68; his Compleate Copyholder, 
425. 

Coke, Thomas (of Norfolk), 32, 149, 
194, 207 ; account of , 217 seq. ; his 
live-stock, 219, 354 ; sends a 
Norfolk plough to Gloucestershire, 
203. 

Colchester, 33. 

Coldstream, Mr. Pringle introduces 
drilling at, 176. 

Cole, John, clothier of Reading, 80. 

Coleridge, S. T., attends Davy's 
lectures, 217. 

Cole-seed, 108, 136. 

Colewort, 160. 

" College," the, at Welcombe, 68. 

College of Experiments, suggested by 
Gabriel Plattes, 110, and by Robert 
Child, 110. 

Colling, Charles, his Ketton herd, 187 ; 
Charles and Robert, their Short- 
horns, 354. 

Colonial preference, 273. 



INDEX 



477 



Colucia, F., editor of Palladius, 419. 
Columella, 33, 99, 419. 
Combe, William, of Stratford-on- 
Avon, 68. 

Comber, W. T., his Inquiry into the 
State of National Subsistence, 266, 
456. 

Comenius, Hartlib's translation from, 
108. 

Commerce, rise of, 57 seq. ; under 
Elizabeth, 79. 

Commination Service, curse in the, 
157. 

Commissioners of Sewers, the (1630), 
117. 

Commons, and Common-rights, 22, 
27, 36, 37 ; commutation of, 67 ; 
and enclosures, 71, 304, 305, 306 ; 
compared with Fenlands, 118, 119 
seq. ; and the Digger movement, 
121; squatters, 126 seg., 152, 157, 
158, 159 ; preserved as breathing- 
spaces, 252 ; at Maulden, 416. 

Common pastures, 6, 26 seq., 36, 37, 
72, 120, 157, 159 ; Timothy Nourse 
on, 150 ; open-fields and, 224 seq. 

Commonwealth, distribution of land 
under the, 140. 

Company of Adventurers, the (Bed- 
ford Level), 117. 

Compendious or Brief Examination, 
etc., by W. S., 70, 71, 73, 97, 122, 
164. 

Compensation for continuous good 
farming in excess of standard, 405, 

" Compostynge," 50. 

Compulsory, commutation of tithes. 
344 ; labour on roads, 282 ; legis- 
lation, advocated by Robert Child 
( 1655), 109 ; by Walter Blith, 1 14 ; 
tenant right, 405. 

Confiscation of land, 395. 

Coningsby, 246. 

Consecration, secures tithes, 387. 

Consols, present low price of, facili- 
tates tithe-redemption, 403. 

Constable's field, 26. 

Contagious Diseases of Animals Act, 
the, of 1896, 381. 

Contract, freedom of, 54, 67 ; ex 
adverso tenant-right, 405. 

Conygarth, the, 18. 

Coode, G., his Report in 1851, 434. 

Cook, Moses, his Forrest-Trees, 429. 

Co-operative societies, 417. 

Copper, for destroying charlock, 386. 

Copyholders, 23, 69 ; of inheritance, 
70 ; under EHzabeth, 84. 

Coriander, in Essex, 193. 

Corn, bounties on exports, see Corn- 
Laws (1697-1765), 452; consump- 



tion of, per person, 266, 267 ; con- 
sumption of home-grown as com- 
pared withpopulation, 272; England 
profits by reason of, 262 ; export 
duty in Prussia, 270 ; exports of, 
in 1792, 268; in 1808, 268; 
imports and exports (1697-1801), 
452; (1765-1814), 267; imports 
in 1741, 1757 and 1758, 261 ; 
in 1715-1765, 263 ; in 1782, 267 : 
in 1796, 267 ; in 1875-6, 376 ; im- 
portation of, Porter on, 214 ; 
importation from France during 
Napoleonic war, 269 ; French 
demand for, in 1870-1, 371 ; House 
of Commons Committee on the 
Corn Trade (1814), 319 ; seed corn, 
10, 94, 107 ; steeping, 107, 120 ; 
Jethro TuU on, 170 ; self-denying 
ordinances, 254 ; speculation in, 
256, 273 ; wheat area in 1854, 371 ; 
in 1871 and 1901, 378; wholesale 
trade in, 312 ; yield per acre, 97, 
98, 101, 107, 131 ; Thomas Coke, 
319 ; in Cambridgeshire, 242 ; in 
Gloucestershire (1790), 199; (1796), 
232 ; in 1850 as compared with 
1770, 371 ; in 1879, 376 ; prices of 
(1453-1497), 448; in eighteenth 
century, 148, 168, 210, 262; in 
seventeenth and eighteenth cen- 
turies, 254; (1646-1911), 440, 441; 
(1715-1765), 259 ; (1742-1756), 263; 
(1755-1764), 435; (1765-1774), 435 ; 
(1765-1813), 264, 265 (the weather 
and the war); (1782-1792), 321; 
in 1800, 270; (1801-1810), 266; 
(1802-1812), 321 ; (1811-1820), 266; 
in 1812, 270; (1813-1815), 319; 
in 1835, 274 ; in 1850, 371 ; effect 
of peace of 1815 on, 271 ; sensitive 
to harvests and weather, 254, 261. 
Corn Laws, the (and see Appendix 
III.), 210, 253 seq., 442 seq. ; seven- 
teenth century, 143; (1689-1765), 
260seq.; (1765-1815), 2635eg.: (1815- 
1846), 255 seq.; (1846-1849), 274; 
Acts of Parhament, affecting the 
corn trade, 442-447 ; aim of legis- 
lation, 255, 256 ; Anti-Corn Law 
League, the, 274 ; bounties, 257, 
259, 260, 261 ; on exports (1697- 
1765), 443, 444, 452 ; on imports, 
265 ; suspended, 261, 264 ; cease 
to be based on moral principles, 
271 ; Colonial preference, 273 ; 
commercial blockade during French 
and American wars, 268, 269 ; 
England remained dependent on 
her own produce, 349 ; export 
allowed by statute, 257 ; restriction 



478 



INDEX 



on, 257, 442 seq. ; exports and im- 
ports, 258, 261, 263, 268, 442 seq. ; 
imports, restrictions on, 273, 444 ; 
after 1814, 265, 273 ; dm'ing the 
French war, 268 ; foreign coi'n 
admitted duty free in the eight- 
eenth century, 261, 263 ; increas- 
ing preponderance over exports, 
264, 267, 268 ; Indian corn and 
meal, 445 ; inland trade, restrictions 
on, 256 ; regulated as well as 
foreign trade, 255 ; merchants 
petition against, in 1820, 273 
middlemen, forestallers, etc., 256 
monopoly of hoine markets, not 
the effect of the Com Laws, 321 
prices steadied by the Corn Laws 
254, 257 ; down to 1815 only, 271 
otherwise not much affected, 270 
Protection, frankly so, after 1815 
271; "rained away," 274, 371 
repeal, advocated by Porter, 273 
in 1846, 409 ; final repeal in 1869 
274, 371 ; revenue and, 257, 258 
royal licenses, 257 ; under the 
Tudors, 257 ; the Stewarts, 258 ; at 
the Restoration, 258 ; rye, 445 ; 
sliding scale of duties in 1828 and 
onward, 273. 

Cornwall, report on (Worgan), 311 ; 
industries in, 311. 

Correction, houses of, 432, 434, 435. 

Corse Lawn, 230, 231, 232. 

Cotereau, Charles, translator of Col- 
umella, 419. 

Cotesbach, Rev. Joseph Lee at, 125. 

Cottages, to have each 4 acres of land, 
297 ; " Cottage Acres," 298. 

Cottagers and enclosures, 305. 

Cottars, 22. 

Cottenham, common rights at, 27. 

Cotton, Charles, his Planter's Manual, 
429, 

Cotswold wool, 80, 98, 138, 178, 311. 

Couling, Mr. W., his evidence before 
the Select Committee on Emigra- 
tion, 1827, 456. 

" Coiinterfet Cranke," the, 76. 

" Country Farmer, A," Cursory Re- 
marks on Enclosures, etc., 303. 

" Country Gentleman, A," The Ad- 
vantages and Disadvantages of En- 
. closing Waste Lands, 301, 303. 

Courts, Manorial, 19, 150 ; dwindling 
jurisdiction of, 54 ; Court Rolls, 23, 
24, 39, 47, 70. 

Le Couteur, Col., 354. 

Coventry, a port, 276 ; yeomen seek 
employment at, 296 ; ribbon and 
tamine trade at, 310. 

Cow-commons, 248. 



Cow-leech, the, 386. 

Cowper, J. M., his England in the reign 
of Henry VIII., 59. 

Cowper, John, his Essay proving that 
Inclosing . . . is contrary to the 
interest of the Nation, 151. 

" Crag " (Suffolk), 192. 

Craven Longhorns, 187. 

Crawshay, John, his Countryman'' s 
Instructor, 106, 425. 

Crayford, linen industry at, 309. 

Credit banks, 417. 

Crediton, pastures at, 136. 

Crescentius, Petrus, 89, 420. 

Cricklade, 234. 

Crimean war, the, closes the Baltic, 
371 ; depression preceding, 409. 

Crofters in Skye, in 1750, 28. 

Crombie, Rev. Dr., his Letters on the 
Present State of the Agricultural 
Interest, 320. 

Crompton, Samiiel, 205. 

Cromwell, Oliver, and racehorses, 
183 ; and Hertfordshire turnips, 
191. 

Crones, 14. 

" Crooks," 204. 

Crops, of the demesne, 8 ; disuse of 
certain kinds, 312 ; rotation of, 
107 (Sir Richard Weston) ; 131 ; 
199 ; in 1808, 456 ; in 1837, 354 ; 
in 1866-1911, 464, 465; in Cam- 
bridgeshire, 200 ; in Herefordshire, 
228 ; in Norfolk, 174 ; in Stafford- 
shire, 227. 

Crosskill, Mr., and the Beverley 
Reaper, 358, 369. 

Crowbar, Mr. Elkington's, 363. 

Crowland, 116. 

Crowley, Robert, 62 ; his Way to 
Wealth, 73 ; his Epigrams, 73. 

Crowmarsh, Jethro Tull at, 170. 

Croxton, 243. 

Croydon, and the Surrey Iron Rail- 
way, 352. 

" Crustse," 24. 

Culley, George (and see J. Bailey) on 
large cattle, 179 ; his Observations 
on Live Stock, 185. 

Culleys, the, 318, 354. 

Cullum, Sir John, his History of the 
Manor of Hawsted, 11, 43, 135; 
on Suffolk Punches, 193. 

Cumberland, report on (Bailey and 
Culley), 48, 226 ; enclosure in, 48 ; 
the poorest county, 146. 

Curwen, J. C, M.P., his Speech on 28 
May, 1816, 314, 320. 

Custom, the tyranny of, 132, 155, 
158, 202, 220, 275, 378 ; influence 
of, in tithes, 333, 338, 339. 



INDEX 



479 



Customs of manors, 43, 48. 

Dairies, of the Middle Ages, 14 ; of 
the seventeenth century, 109 ; 
1853-1874, 372 ; of modern times, 
388 seq. ; dairy produce in Lei- 
cestershire, 187 ; in Cheshire, 194 ; 
in Essex, in 1893, 381 ; dairy 
appliances, 390 ; dairy women 
sometimes threshed the com, 11 ; 
the British Dairy Farmers' Asso- 
ciation, 388 ; the Dairy Shorthorn 
Association, 388 ; dairy appliances, 
390 (and see Milk). 

" Daisses," 2. 

" Dales," 24. 

Danes, the, and monastic establish 
ments, 334, 335. 

Darley Arabian, 183. 

Darwin, Erasmus, on steam, in The 
Botanic Garden, 352. 

Davenant, Charles, his Essay upon the 
. . . ballance of Trade, 145, 455 ; 
his Works, Political and Commer- 
cial, edited by Sir C. Whitworth, 
453. 

Daventry, industries at, 310. 

Davis, Richard, his Oxfordshire, 234, 
293. 

Davis, Thomas, his Wiltshire, 233, 
294. 

Davies, David, his Case of Labourers 
in Husbandry stated and considered, 
303, 307. 

Davy, Sir Humphry, 216, 217, 359 ; 
his Eleynents of Agricultural Chemis- 
try, 211 ; his lecture on Soils, 211 ; 
his lectures, 216, 359. 

Davy, William, liis North Devons, 
354. 

Dawley Farm, BoKngbroke at, 173. 

Dawson, William, at Frogden, adopts 
drills, 177. 

" Daye," the, 11. 

" Daymen," on roads, 286. 

Dean, the forest of, 391. 

Deans, Jeannie, 153. 

Deanston Cotton Works, James Smith 
at, 363, 364. 

Decimation tax, the, 140. 

Dedham, industries at, 309. 

Dee, the, 276. 

Deeping Fens, 245, 246. 

Deer-parks, 60, 62. 

Deeryng, Richard, 99. 

Defoe, Daniel, his Tour through . . . 
Great Britain, 166, 168 ; on Lei- 
cestershire horses, 183. 

Degge, Sir Simon, 85. 

Delameres, from Cheshire, 178. 

De Laune, on pastures, 384. 



Demesne, the, 6 ; condition of, 65 ; 
increase of, 38 ; produce of, 8 seq. ; 
survey of, 20. 

Dendy, F. W., The ancient farms of 
Northumberland (1893), 50. 

Denmark, hostility of, in 1800, 270 ; 
milking herd-books in, 389 ; re- 
ceipts per cultivated acre one- 
third larger than in Great Britain, 
401. 

Denton, Rev. W., England in the 
fifteenth century, 50. 

Denys, Henry, 99. 

Depression, of agricultural industry, 
(1813-1836), 436 ; (1814), 322 seq. ; 
(1816-1837), 349; (1875-1884), 374, 
375, 376 seq., 393, 411 ; (1891-1899), 
374, 375, 393; extravagance blamed 
for, 347 ; but not altogether justly, 
348 ; The Richmond Commission, 
377 ; Royal Commission of, 1893, 
380 ; commercial depression, 374 ; 
decennial theory of, 374. 

Deptford, powder mills at, 309 ; 
price of flour at, in 1813, 319. 

Derbyshire, Report on (Farey), 227 ; 
(Brown), 294; in 1770, 199, 
200. 

Devon Herd-book, the, 373. 

Devonshire, Report on (Eraser), 294 ; 
earthworks, 2 ; industries m, 
311. 

Devonshire, Duke of, tenancies-at- 
will under, 200. 

" Devonshiring " (Sir Richard Wes- 
ton's), 107. 

Diamond-backed moth, the, 386. 

Dibbing, 11 ; origin of, 101 ; at 
Holkham, 220 ; in Gloucestershire, 
199. 

Digger Movement, the, 120 seq. 

Digges, Leonard, his Book named 
Tectonicon, 420. 

Dilston, John Grey, of, 318. 

Dingles, the, at Welcombe, 68. 

Disestablishment of the Church, 402 ; 
in Wales, 403 ; demanded by the 
Labourers' Union, 410. 

Dishley, see Robert Bakewall. 

Distilleries, and the price of corn, 254, 
264. 

Distress, the law of, modified in 1883, 
379. 

Ditclimarsh, 117. 

Dodde-reade (Kentish wheat), 93. 

Dogs, Worlidge on, 130. 

Dog-whipper's land, 26. 

Doles, 25 seq. 

Domesday Book, 21, 22 ; of Castle 
Combe, 43. 

Don, the, 117, 277. 



480 



INDEX 



Donaldson, James, 112; his North- 
amptonshire, 236, 244 ; his Hus- 
bandry anatomised, 114, 430; ad- 
vocate of tenant-right, 114 ; on the 
tyranny of custom, 134 ; on 
ploughs in Northamptonshire, 203. 

Doncaster (Ermine Street), 279. 

Donnington, glassworks at, 310. 

Dorsetshire,Report on (Claridge),233; 
(Stevenson), 233 ; commons in, 2 ; 
farthingholds, 22 ; industries in, 
312 ; bankruptcies in 1815-1820, 
323. 

Douglas, the, 277. 

Dovecotes of the monasteries, 334. 

Dover, paper industry at, 309. 

Dover-court beetle, a, 10. 

Downton, 390. 

Drage, 9. 

Drainage, 10, 11, 94, 362-365 (1837- 
1874); Walter BUth on, 114; 
Robert Child on, 112, 115; not 
possible on open-fields, 122 ; of 
common pastures, 199 ; the Great 
Level, 117; "thorough," 193; 
public loans for, 364 ; drain pipes, 
364 ; drainage in Essex and Suffolk, 
192, 363 ; in Leicestershire, 363 ; 
in Hertfordshire, 363. 

Drakelow, 187. 

Drayton Beauchamp (Hooker at), 
25. 

Drayton, Michael, his Nymphidia, 
98. 

Driffield, 153. 

Driftways, 27, 96, 285. 

DriUing (and see Jethro Tull), 219, 
220 ; the Northumberland drill, 
356 ; the Suffolk, 356 ; seed and 
manure drills, 369. 

Driver, Abraham and William, their 
Hampshire, 300. 

Dubravius, Janus, Bishop of Olmutz, 
his New Booke of Good Husbandry, 
424. 

Ducie, Lord, 172. 

Duckett, Thomas, his Proceedings Con- 
cerning the Improvement of Land, 
427. 

Ducking-stool, the, 19. 

Dudley, Dud, his experiments with 
sea-coal, 110. 

Dugdale, Sir Wilham, his History of 
Imbanking and Draining, 118, 428. 

Dun, David, his Blackfaced Heaths, 
354. 

Dunstable (Icknield Street), 279. 

Dunstan, St., 336. 

Dunstan pillar hghthouse, 153. 

Durham, Report on (Granger), 226. 

Durham ox, the, 188. 



Dursley, industries at, 311. 

Duty, on brick and timber, aboHtion 
of, 371 ; on undeveloped land, 399. 

Dyer, John, The Fleece, 80, 98. 

Dymock, Cressy, possible author of 
Hartlib's Essay for Advancement of 
Husbandry-Learning, etc., 426. 

E., R., his Discourse of Housebandrie, 
422. 

Earby, Sir Anthony, his case, in 
1633, 433. 

East and West Common, 245, 250. 

East and West Deeping Fens, 245. 

East India Company, the, 79. 

Eastington, 232. 

Eastland or Baltic Company, the, 
79. 

East Lothian, wheat grown there 
only, in 1716, 160. 

Ecclesiastical organisation, 334 ; the 
Reformation and, 340. 

Eden, Sir F. M., prices in 1742-56, 
262 ; his State of the Poor, 316. 

Edgar, the Peaceful, 336. 

Edges, 24. 

Edgeworth, Maria, on Arthur Yotmg's 
Ireland, 196 ; her Essay on Irish 
Bulls, 208. 

Edmonton Common, 227. 

Edmund, King, his Synod at London, 
335. 

Education, Acts of 1870, 1873, and 
1876,409; Agricultural, 390 se?. ; 
Elementary, 391 ; under the later 
Stewarts, 132 ; school-gardens, 391. 

Edward the Confessor, and tithes, 
337. 

Edward I., a gardener, 31 ; and 
population, 50 ; road improvement 
under, 280. 

Edward II., a farmer, 31. 

Edward III., 35, 45. 

Edward IV., 46. 

Edward VI., Latimer's sermon before, 
52 ; re-enacts Statutes of Merton 
and Westminster, 72 ; legislation 
for hops, 92 ; legislation against 
commercial landowners, 144 ; Visi- 
tations of Bishops under, 280. 

Edwards, Dr., of Barnard Castle, his 
Plan of an Undertaking for the 
Improvetnent of Husbandry, 207. 

Eel worms, 386. 

Egremont, Lord, 207, 221. 

Electricity, a possible fertilising agent, 
385. 

Elephants, recommended by Robert 
Child, 112. 

Elevators, 369. 

Elf-furrows, 2. 



INDEX 



481 



Elizabeth, Queen, her reign, 78 seq. ; 
prosperity under, 82 ; not universal, 
85 ; drainage of marshes under, 
115 ; and the Com Laws, 258. 

Elkington, Joseph, his drainage 
methods, 363 ; receives £1000 
from ParUament, 363. 

Ellesmere, Lord Chancellor, 68. 

Ellis, William, of Gaddesden, on 
Aylesbury farmers, 198 ; his 

Chiltern and Vale Farming ex- 
plained, 191 ; his Modern Husband- 
man, 191 ; his Shepherd's Sure 
Guide, 149. 

Elbnan, Jolm, of Glynde, 187 ; his 
Southdowns, 354. 

Elm, fenlands of, 245. 

Elmton Common, 227. 

Eltsley, sheep-rot at, in 1793, 243. 

Ely, 116 ; Isle of, derelict land in, 
322 ; executions and arrests in, 
1812-15, 323. 

Ember Court, flatting mills on the 
Mole, 309. 

Emigration, 398, 408, 409 ; in 1872- 
81,410. 

Employment, decrease of, in modern 
times, 398. 

Enclosure, 37 seq., 56 seq., 97, 224 
seq. ; in seventeenth and eighteenth 
centvuies, 56 seq. ; under Elizabeth, 
86, 87, 161, 167 ; under James I., 
103 seq. ; Acts (enclosure), 161, 
162, 163, 167 ; very niunerous 
between 1795 and 1812, 264 ; first 
General Enclosure Act (1801), 252 ; 
Act of 1773, 224; of 1801. 252; 
of 1836, 252 ; of 1845, 252 ; 
acreage enclosed between 1760 and 
1815, 163, 164, 214, 215; ad- 
vantages of, 97, 122 seq., 231, 233, 
297 ; attacks on, 61 seq., 150 ; 
Becon, Thomas, advocate of, 123 ; 
Blith, Walter, advocate of, 113, 
133 ; case for enclosure stated by 
J. Lee, A. Moore, and S. Taylor, 
1 25 ; Catthorp Common, enclosure 
of, 126, 127 ; championed by 
Fitzherbert and Tusser, 96, 97, 
122, 123 ; Child, Robert, advocate 
of, 123, 124 ; compensation, none 
to small holders, 299 ; compulsory, 
150 ; controversy on, in eighteenth 
century, 152 ; com area diminished 
by, 267 ; Cowper, John, on, 151 ; 
Commissioners, 163 ; their pro- 
ceedings, 298, 299 ; substitiited for 
Parliamentary Committees, 252 ; 
Court of Chancery, sanction re- 
quired from, 162 ; Crown, sanction 
of required, 162 ; in Cumberland, 



48 ; a curse on famihes, but not in 
Leicestershire, 127 ; depopulation 
and, 60, 151, 291, 299 ; the Digger 
Movement and, 121 ; displacement 
caused by, 75, 307 ; drainage of 
Fens, compared with, 119 seq. ; 
effects of, on rural population, 290 
seg'., 305, 306 ; socially and morally, 
302-307 ; Halhead, Henry, dis- 
approves of, 125 ; Laiu-ence, John 
and Edward, on, 150 ; Lee, Joseph, 
champion of, 125 ; Hterature of the 
subject, 150, 303 ; " makes fat 
beasts and lean poor," 291 ; in 
Midland Coimties, 66, 72 ; Moore, 
Adam, champion of, 125 ; Nourse, 
Timothy, advocate of, 150 ; open- 
field farms not sufferers by, 71 ; 
Parliament and, 60 ; Elizabethan, 
141 ; Hanoverian, 141 ; procedure, 
prior to 1801, 249 se^. ; processes 
of, 56 seq., 150, 157, 162; Report on, 
to Board of Agriculture (1808), 305 ; 
roads improved by, 279 ; Rous, 
John, disapproves of, 60 ; soil, 
character of, and, 167 ; statistics of, 
164, 165, 231, 305; Taylor, Sil- 
vanus, advocate of, 125 ; tithes 
extinguished by, 252, 342 ; tithe- 
owners resist, prior to 1765, 168 ; 
vokmtary arrangements, 163 ; of 
wastes, 72, 215 ; wool, effect on 
quahty of, 98 ; wheat, price of, 
affects, 167 ; Yovmg, Arthur, on, 
302, 305. 

Enfield Common, 237. 

England's Improvement, and season- 
able advice . . . how to prepare the 
ground for sowing Hemp and Flax 
seed, etc. (1691), 136, 430. 

Englebert, WilHam, drains the Fens, 
115. 

English Jersey Cattle Herd-book, and 
Society, 373. 

Engrossing, approved of by Edward 
Laiu-ence, 151, 298 ; the Corn Laws 
and, 256, 264. 

An Enquiry into the Reasons for and 
against Inclosing the Open Fields, 
303. 

An Enquiry into the Advantages and 
Disadvantages resulting from Bills 
of Inclosure, etc., 303. 

Ensilage, 387 ; in Stewart times, 131 

Epping Forest, in 1 794, 154, 238. 

Epworth, petition from, 119; in 
dustries at, 309. 

Erdeswick, Sampson, his Survey of 
Staffordshire, 85. 

Ermine Street, 279. 

Erskine, Lord, at Holkliam, 221. 



2H 



482 



INDEX 



Essex, Report on (Young), 192, 293, 
314; (Vancouver), 154, 238, 314 
calves from, 192 ; clay-lands of 
379, 381 ; drainage in, 192, 193 
industries of, 308, 309 ; manure in 
192 ; ouTiership of land in, 192 
roads in, 204 ; wages in, 314. 

Estienne, Charles, 89 ; and Jean 
Liebault, Uagriculture et Maison 
Rustique, 422. 

Eton, prices of wheat at, 1646-1770, 
440. 

Evelyn, John, his Sylva and Terra, 
134, 428 ; his Pomona, 428. 

Evens, Mr., his milking-herds, 389. 

" Every Year's land," 198. 

Exe, the, 276. 

Exeter, a port, 276. 

Exhall, parish tithes at, 338. 

Exhaustion of unenclosed land, 64. 

Extravagance, of farmers, 347 ; of 
labourers, 347 ; of landowners, 347. 

Factory, legislation of, 1833, 349. 

Fairfax, General Lord, and the 
Diggers, 120 ; Winstanley's letter 
to him, 121. 

St. Faith's fair, 218. 

Fallows, 33. 

Famine, 34 ; anticipated in eight- 
eenth century, 210, 214, 215, 225, 
291, 436 ; in 1812, 265 ; in France 
in 1789, 268 ; the potato famine, 
274, 371. 

Fardels, 22. 

Farey, John, his Derbyshire, 227. 

Farm, meaning of the word, 50 ; 
farms become food-factories, 214, 
349 ; farm buildings in 1837, 355. 

Farmer, The Compleat (1760), 8. 

Farmers' Magazine, The (1802), 
founded 209 ; on live-stock on 
commons, 159 ; on Holkham sheep- 
shearings, 221 ; Woburn sheep- 
shearings, 221. 

Farm-hold, the, 21. 

Farrvmdells, 22. 

Farthingholds, 22. 

Faversham, powder mills at, 309. 

Federal Union, the, 411. 

Fens, the, 114 ; Reports on the Fen 
lands, 24:3 seq. ; draining of, 115 
seq. ; extent of, 243 ; outrages in, 
119; in eighteenth century, 153. 

Fertilisation, cross, 385. 

Fertilisers and Feeding- Stuffs Act, 
the, of 1893, 381. 

Feudal dues, 141, 142. 

Field churches, 337. 

Field-grass husbandry, 2 seq. 

Field names, 26. 



Field-reeves, under Enclosure Act of 
1773, 224 ; at Wilburton, 245. 

Fimble hemp, 30. 

Finance at the Restoration, 141. 

Finchley Common, 154. 

Fines, of copyholds, 70. 

Finger-and-toe fungus, the, 386. 

Finlaison, John, his estimate of the 
poptdation, 266. 

Fires, agrarian, in 1830-31, 326, 330. 

Fish, Simon, 62. 

Fishery Laws, under Elizabeth, 79. 

Fish-ponds, of the monasteries, 334. 

Fitzherbert, Sir Anthony, 90. 

Fitzherbert, John, his Book of Hus- 
bandry, 10, 25, 59, 65, 89, 90, 92, 93 
seq., 105, 139, 420; his Book of 
Surveying, 36, 37, 39, 50, 122, 420 ; 
on Essex roads, 204. 

Fitzherbert, Rev. Reginald, 90. 

Flails, 369. 

Flanders, farming in, 99 ; tenant- 
right in, 113; turnips in, 100; 
Sir R. Weston in, 107. 

Flats, 24. 

Flax, 107, 108, 136, 240, 312. 

Flour, white, adulteration of, 449. 

Flower-growing, a branch of modern 
agriculture, 383. 

Folkingham, William, his Feudi- 
graphia, 424. 

Foot, Peter, his Middlesex, 237. 

Foot-and-mouth disease, the, 372, 
376, 386. 

Forestalling, 256, 264. 

Forestry, instruction in, 391 (and see 
Woods). 

Formalin, 386. 

Forncett, the manor of, 15, 17, 40. 

Forrest, " Sir " William, 62. 

Forster, John, his England's Happi- 
ness increased, 108, 428 ; on pota- 
toes, 135. 

Forster, Nathaniel, his Enquiry into 
the present High Price of Provisions, 
300, 303. 

Fortescue, Sir John, 49. 

Fortrey, Samuel, his England's In- 
terest Considered, etc., 428. 

Fosseway, the, 279. 

Fothers, 25. 

Fowler, Mr., of Rollright, breeder of 
Longhorns, 187. 

Fox, C. J., at the Louvre, 207. 

Fox, Wilson, his Report on Agri- 
cultural Wages in 1900, 470. 

Foxes, and poultry, 106 ; black 
foxes, 112. 

Fox-himting, 183. 

France, corn imported from during 
the Napoleonic war, 269 ; the 



INDEX 



483 



Franco-German war, 375 ; demand 

for corn in, in 1870-1, 371 ; war 

with, 268, 269. 
Franchise, parliamentary, demanded 

by the Labourers' Union, 410 ; and 

won, 411. 
Fraser, Robert, his Devonshire, 294. 
Fraters, 76. 
Freeholds, at Berkeley, 45; small, 151 

(and see Landowners) ; in Scotland, 

161. 
Freemen, 20, 40, 47, 48, 49, 52, 87. 
Free Trade (and see Com Laws), not 

at first a benefit to agricultural 

labourers, 409. 
Friendly Societies, the Labourers' 

Union and, 410, 414 ; and the Poor 

Laws, 436. 
Frogden, drilling at, 177. 
Frome, woollen trade at, 311. 
Fruit-farm, the Woburn, 383. 
Fulham, gardens at, 102. 
Fuller, Thomas, on enclosures, 64 ; 

on gardens, 102 ; on Tusser, 91. 
Full land. 21. 
Fimgi, 385, 386. 

G., E., his Waste Land Improvement, 
etc., 427. 

Gaddesden, Little, William Ellis of, 
191. 

Gamlingay, 243. 

Gang system, the, 409 ; the Gangs 
Act of 1867, 409. 

Garden, Alexander, of Troup, 160. 

Gardener, Mayster Ion, his Feate of 
Gardeninge, 102. 

Gardens, extension of, under Eliza- 
beth, 86, 101, 102 ; under the 
Stewarts, 106 ; the Landscape 
school, 173. 

Garforth, experiments at, 387. 

Gascoigne, George, his Steel Glasse, 
156. 

Gay, Mr., his estimate of enclosures 
between 1455 and 1607, 66 ; his 
hypothetical tables of persons dis- 
placed by enclosm-es between 1485 
and 1517, 75 ; on Fitzherbert, 90. 

Geese, 17 ; on Deeping Fens, 247. 

" Gelly or matty rime," 15. 

Geneat land, 336. 

Oentlemans Magazine, The ; refer- 
ences to Robert Bakewell, 185. 

Geology and agriculture, 385. 

George II., high wages imder, 262 ; 
and Queen Caroline upset at 
Parsons Green, 283. 

George III., 23, 32 ; enclosure under, 
56, 57, 215 ; a contributor to the 
Annals of Agriculture, 196 ; " Far- 



mer George " and Arthur Young, 

207. 
George, Henry, 396. 
St. George's Hill, 120. 
Gerard, John, his Herball, 423. ; 
Gerstmis, 6. 

Gertruydenberg, the Peace of, 173 
Gilbert, Sir Joseph Henry, 217, 366, 

385. 
Gilbert's Act (1782), 327, 435, 437. 
Gin-balls, calves fed on, 204. 
de Girardin, M., on irrigation, 114. 
Glasgow Bank, failure of the, 375. 
Glass furnaces, 110. 
Glauber, Johann Rudolf, his Miracu- 

lum Mundi, 131. 
Glebe land, 340. 
Glen, the, 116. 
Glendale, 318. 
Gloucester, vale of, in 1789, 198, 200, 

230 ; Gloiicester fair. Lord Berke- 
ley at, 31 ; Royal Agricultural 

Society's Show at, in 1853, 369. 
Gloucestershire, Report on (Turner), 

230; (Rudge), 231, 294, 311; 

farrundells, 22 ; open-fields, 23 ; 

enclosure in, 66 ; industries in, 

311. 
Glover, Rev. George, his Observations 

on the present state of Pauperism in 

England, 320, 324, 326. 
Glyilde, John Ellman of, 187, 354. 
Godalming, liquorice grown at, 136 ; 

industries at, 309. 
Godolphin Arabian, 183, 188. 
God Spede the Plough, 424. 
Godspenny, the, 89. 
Gold, increased production of, 211 ; 

new discoveries of, in nineteenth 

century, 371. 
Golden Valley, the, in Herefordshire, 

228. 
Gooch, William, his Cambridgeshire, 

243. 
Googe, Barnaby, The Four Bookes of 

Husbandry, 99, 105, 131, 421. 
Gores, 25. 

Gorsley Common, 230. 
Granaries, 5 ; public, 256, 257. 
Grange, the, 5. 

Granger, Joseph, his Durham, 226. 
Grangers, 7. 
Grant, Sir Archibald, of MonjTnusk, 

160. 
Grantham, assized bread at, in 1812, 

450. 
Grapes, 18. 

Grasses, Thomas Coke and, 219. 
Greenwich Marshes, embankment of, 

115. 
St. Gregory's day, 25. 



484 



INDEX 



Gresley, Sir Thomas, of Drakelow, 

Gretton, R. H., cited, 26. 

Grey, John, of Dilston, 318 ; and 

K Lord Althorp, 208. 

de Grey, Thomas, his Compleat Horse- 
man and Expert Ferrier, 183, 425. 

Grisone, F., his Arte of Ry ding, 421. 

Grosseteste, Robert, his Rules, 11, 33, 
419. 

Ground-game legislation, 131, 132. 

Grymes, Thomas, his Honest and 
Plaine dealing Farrier, 106, 425. 

Guano, 104, 366, 371. 

Guilds, see Trade Guilds. 

Guinea, or African Company, the, 79. 

Guy's Cliffe, 60. 

H. stamp on loaves, 450. 

Haggard, Sir H. Rider, his Rural 

England, 382, 470. 
Hainault Forest in 1794, 154, 238. 
Haines, Richard, his Prevention of 

Poverty, 429. 
Hair-powder, 254, 264. 
Hales, John, suggested author of the 

Compendious Examination, etc., 70, 

420. 
" Half-places," 22. 
" Half-year " lands, 25. 
" Half-year meads " in Dorset, 233. 
Halhead, Henry, his Inclosure thrown 

open, 124, 426. 
Hahfax, Lord, at Abbs' Court, 172. 
Hall, Bishop, his Satires, 82, 84. 
Hallowmas, 9. 
Halstead, industries at, 309. 
Hame, manor of, 44. 
Hamilton's ploughs, 104. 
Hampshire, Report on (Vancouver), 

237, 293 ; (Driver), 300 ; industries 

in, 309 ; tithes in kind in, 341. 
Hams (stinted pastures), 26. 
" Handy-dandy," 69. 
Hanseatic League, the, 79. 
Hardwicke, 242. 
Hargreaves, James, 205. 
Harman, Thomas, A Caveat or Waren- 

ing for Common Gurseters, 76. 
Harris Institute, at Preston, the, 390. 
Harrison, William, his Description of 

England, 73, 82, 84, 85, 422 ; on 

enclosure, 97 ; on garden produce, 

101 ; on hops, 92. 
Harrogate, in eighteenth centiuy, 153. 
Harrows, 9 ; in 1837, 356 ; later, 369. 
Hartlib, Samuel, his story, 108 ; his 

Legacie, 92, 102, 106, 107, 115, 119, 

124, 126, 426 ; publication of, 108 ; 

his Reformation of Schooles, 108 ; 

his other books, 426 ; advocate of 



tenant-right, 113 ; on cattle-breed- 
ing, 180 ; on cheeses, 136 ; on 
innovations, 134 ; on machine- 
sowing, 171 ; his remedy for the 
rot, etc., Ill ; on Reginald Scot's 
Hop Garden, 92. 

Harvests, of Middle Ages, 11 ; in 
Herefordshire, 301 ; a harvest in 
each month of the year, 376 ; of 
1715-1764, 267; of 1765-1792 
(analysis), 268 ; of 1765-1815, 267 ; 
of 1779, 267, 268 ; of 1789, 268 ; 
of 1790 and 1792, 268 ; of 1791, 
268 ; of 1793 (in Isle of Wight), 
300 ; of 1793-1814 (analysis), 269 ; 
of 1808 and 1809 (in France and the 
Netherlands), 269; of 1809-1812, 
319; of 1813, 265, 269, 319; of 
1814 and 1815, 319 ; of 1845, 274 ; 
of 1860, 371 ; of 1879, 376 ; of 
1894, 380. 

Harward, Michael, his Herds-man's 
Mate, 429. 

Hasbach, W., his History of the English 
Agricidtural Labourer, 470. 

Hatfield Chace, 117, 119. 

Hawstead, 11, 43, 135, 192. 

Hay, parish tithes at, 338. 

Hay-making, in 1837, 357. 

Hays, hay wains of the, 32. 

Haywards, 7, 25. 

Hazelton, granary at, 5. 

Hearth office, the, 145. 

Heath, F. G., his Romance of Peasant 
Life, etc., 470. 

" Heath-croppers " of Berkshire, 177. 

Hedgerows, 28. 

Helenmas, 96. 

St. Helens, coalfield, the, 277. 

Hemp, 29, 30, 108, 136, 193, 240, 309, 
312. 

Henry III., and the Assize of Bread, 
450. 

Henry VII., 50, 74, 79. 

Henry VIII., 56 ; and the Corn Laws, 
257 ; drainage and reclamation 
under, 115; feudal dues under, 141; 
gardening imder, 102 ; horses im- 
ported by, 181 ; petition to, in 
1514, 57, 62 ; Poor Laws, and, 74. 

Henslow, Prof. John Stevens, treat- 
ment of coproUtes, 367. 

Herd Books, 373. 

Herdsham, 26. 

Herdwicks, 178. 

Hereford, a port, 276. 

Hereford Herd-book and Society, 373. 

Herefordshire, Report on (Clark), 
228, 301 ; crops harvested by 
Welshmen, 301. 

Heresbach, Conrad, 89, 99, 421. 



INDEX 



485 



Herrtage, see Palladius. 
Hertfordshire, Report on (Young), 
238, 292 ; (Walker), 238 ; com- 
pared with Middlesex, 190, 191 ; 
drainage in, 363 ; farming in, 191 ; 
industries in, 309 ; vicinity to Lon- 
don makes land valuable, 296 ; 
tithes in kind in, 341 ; Walker on, 
191 ; Young on, 191. 

Hervey, Lord Francis, his edition of 
Reyce's Breviary of Suffolk, 192, 
424. 

Hevingham, 240. 

Hewer, John, his Herefords, 354. 

Hide, 21. 

Highways, 203-205, 275-289 ; at be- 
ginning of nineteenth century, 
285 ; Acts of 1773, 284 ; of 1835, 
288 ; Highway, etc.. Amendment 
Act of 1878, 289 ; Local Govern- 
ment Act of 1888, 289 ; Public 
Health Act of 1875, 289 ; Abohtion 
of turnpikes, 288 ; county council's 
liability, 289 ; crimes committed 
on, 280 ; highway districts, forma- 
tion of, 289 ; highwaymen, 283 ; 
legislation under the Tudors, 281 ; 
main roads exempted from district 
liability, 289 ; rates, under Charles 
11. , 282 ; imder George III., 284 ; 
Select Committee of 1839, 288 ; 
Turnpike Trusts, 282 seq. 

Hill, Thomas, his Perfite ordering of 
Bees, 106 ; other works, 421. 

Hillman, David, his Tusser Redivivus, 
91. 

Hired labour, and hirings, 39, 53, 88, 
89. 

" Hitched " land, 248. 

Hobbs, Mr., his milking-herds, 389. 

Hoketide, 9. 

Holdemess cattle, 180. 

Holdsworth, A. H., M.P., his Two 
Letters on the present situation of the 
Country, 314, 320. 

Holkham (and see Thomas Coke), 
annual rental in 1776 and 1816, 
217; sheep-shearings at, 220 ; the 
toast, " Symmetry well covered," 
185. 

Holland, Henry, his Cheshire, 295. 

HoUington Common, 227. 

Holt, John, his Lancashire, 225, 295. 

Home, Francis, his Principles of 
Agricidture and Vegetation, 216. 

Homer, Rev. Henry Sacheverell, his 
Essay upon the . . . method of 
ascertaining the . . . shares of pro- 
prietors upon the inclosure of 
Common fields, 249, 303. 

Honey, 18. 



"Hooked " land, 248. 

Hooker, Richard, 25. 

Hope, Mr., of Rankeillor, 173. 

de I'Hopital, Michel, 90. 

Hops, 92, 108 ; diseases of, 386 ; 
spread of, 136, 193. 

Horn-shavings, as manure, 110, 366. 

" Home and Thorne shall make 
England forlome," 63. 

" Horse-bread," 84. 

Horse-hoes, 369. 

Horses, in 1837, 355 ; in seventeenth 
century, 106, 183 ; Bakewell and 
the Black Horse, 183 ; Fitzherbert 
on, 96 ; the Great Horse, 12, 181 ; 
harnessed by the tail in Ireland, 
109 ; Hartlib's remedy for, 112 ; 
horse-dealing in the seventeenth 
century, 106 ; Markham on, 137 ; 
Midland horses, 184 ; Mortimer on, 
137 ; and oxen, 13 ; in Shake- 
speare, 181, 182 ; Suffolk Punch, 
the, 193, 355 ; Stewart writers on, 
105, 106 ; tax on agricultural 
horses, 321 ; varieties of, 137, 181 
seq., 355. 

Hosebonderie, 8, 12, 14, 17, 419. 

Houghton, John, his Collection of 
Letters, 133, 430 ; on potatoes, 135 ; 
on turnips, 134, 135, 166. 

Houghton, Michael, grows turnips at 
Hawstead in 1700, 135. 

Howberry Farm, 170. 

Howe (Hertfordshire farmer) and 
Cromwell, 191. 

Hewlett, Rev. John, his Enquiry into 
the Influence of Enclosures upon the 
population, 299, 303, 307 ; his 
Enclosures a cause of Improved 
Agriculture, 303. 

" Hubback," Mr. Collings' bull, 188. 

Hughes, William, his Compleat Vine- 
yard, his Flower Garden and Com- 
pleat Vineyard, 136, 428. 

Hull, 153, 276, 277, 278, 280. 

Humber, estuary of the, 114 ; cattle 
on, 180 ; connection of, with 
Sheffield, 277. 

Hvindred Years' War, the, 35. 

Hurunanby, field reeves at, 224. 

Hunter, Alexander, his Oeorgical 
Essays, 207. 

Huntingdonshire, Report on (Stone), 
238, 244, 300 ; (Parkinson), 244 ; 
derelict land in, 322 ; industries in, 
309. 

Huntley Common, 230. 

Husband-land, 21. 

The Husbandman, Farmer and Gras- 
ier's Compleat Instructor, 430. 

Hydrocyanic acid gas, 386. 



486 



INDEX 



Hyp Doctor, The, 173. 

Icknield Street, 279. 

Idle, the, 117, 276. 

Ilminster, cloth trade at, 178. 

Imports, statistics of, from 1866- 
1910, 462, 463. 

Impropriators, lay, 339, 340. 

Improvement of Land Act, the, of 
1899, 381. 

Improvers in the Knowledge of 
Agriculture, Society of (Scotland), 
173, 209. 

In-breeding, 385. 

Income, of the nation in 1688, 145. 

Incubators, in Stewart times, 131. 

Individual occupation (and see En- 
closure), 59, 64, 103, 105, 162, 199, 
297, 303 ; hampered for want of 
capital, etc., 105. 

Industries, migration northwards, 

308 ; local, 308, 309 ; decav of, 

309 seq. 

In-field land, in Scotland, 160. 

Ingleby, C. M., Shakespeare and the 
inclosure of common fields at Wel- 
combe, 68. 

Ings, 25. 

Inland, a thane's, 336. 

" Inning," 88. 

Insects, 385, 386. 

Instruction, technical, under Eliza- 
beth, 87. 

Insurance, not an investment, 414 ; 
village societies for National Insur- 
ance, 417 ; suggested use for funds 
accimaulating in the Commission- 
ers' hands, 406. 

Intensive cultivation, 401, 402. 

Ipswich, Dairy Institute at, 390. 

Ireland, ploughs in, 109 ; Irish corn 
after 1806, 319 ; Representative 
Church Body, the, 403. 

Iron, corrugated, 387. 

Ironworks of Surrey, Sussex, etc., 1 10. 

Irwell, the, 276. 

Isle of Ely, see Ely. 

Isle of Wight, enclosure in, 60. 

Islip, 235. 

Iter, the Roman, 279. 

Ivel, agricultural motors, 387. 

Jacob, W., F.R.S., his Inquiry into 
the causes of Agricultural Distress, 
320, 328. 

James I., distress under, 58 ; agri- 
cultural progress, 103 seq. ; feudal 
dues under, 141 ; and horse-racing, 
183 ; his Arab horses, 183. 

James, William, and Jacob Malcohn- 
son, their Buckinghamshire, 234. 



St. John's day, 6, 11. 

Johnson, Rev. A. H., The Disappear- 
ance of the Small Landowner, 66, 75, 
292. 

Johnston, James, 360, 366. 

Johnstone, John, his Account of Mr. 
Joseph Elkington's Mode of Drain- 
ing, 363. 

K, stallion at Dishley, 184. 

Kainit, 366. 

Keal, 160. 

Kebbel, T. E., his Agricultural Lab- 
ourer, 470. 

Kendal, " statesmen " of, 295. 

Kenilworth, horn industry at, 310. 

Kennet's Parochial Antiquities, 67. 

Kent, Report on (Boys), 293 ; ploughs 
in, 109 ; industries in, 309. 

Kent, Nathaniel, his Norfolk, 239, 
305 ; his Hints to Gentlemen of 
Landed Property, 154, 303, 306 ; 
on drainage, 155 ; his description 
of the Windsor farm, 207. 

Kenyon, Ruth, translator of Has- 
bach's English Agricultural Lab- 
ourer, 470. 

Kett's rebellion, 48, 72, 96. 

Kettering, worsted industry at, 310. 

Ketton cattle, 187. 

Kew, experiments at, 387. 

Kidderminster, carpet industry at, 
311. 

KiUingworth CoUiery, Stephenson's 
engines at, 353. 

King, Gregory, on ground game, 132, 
145 ; his Statistical Account of the 
State and Condition of England and 
Wales in 1696, 145 ; his estimate of 
barren lands in 1696, 152 ; his 
estimate of population, 266 ; his 
estimate of famiUes, status, in- 
come, etc., for 1688, 453 ; his 
Natural and Political Observations 
and Conclusions upon the State and 
Condition of England, 1696, 455. 

King's lock, the, 257. 

King's Sedgmoor, 232. 

Kirklevington, Thomas Bates of, 
354. 

Knaptoft, John Moore, minister of, 
125. 

Knapwell, 243. 

Knaresborough, forest of, 153 ; 
" Blind Jack of," 284. 

Knightley, Sir Charles, his Short- 
horns, 354. 

Kohl rabi, 208. 

L. J., his Discourse Concerning . . . 
drayning and embanking, 425. 



INDEX 



487 



Labourers, agricultural, circum- 
stances of, as compared with 
artisans, 414, 415 ; condition of, 
from 1760 onward, 407 ; from 1815 
onward, 407 ; at the present day, 
406, 407, 411 seq. ; distress in 
early nineteenth centmy, 327 ; 
extravagance of, 347 ; Federal 
Union, the, 411 ; forecast of a 
possible future, 416 ; no formula- 
tion of general aims as yet, 411 ; 
most important of the three agri- 
cultural classes, 411, 417 ; paraded 
by the overseers, 328 ; parlia- 
mentary franchise obtained by, 
411; pauper labour, 328; the 
Agricultural Labourers' Union, 410. 

Labourers, Statutes of, 41, 51, 53. 

Labour market, the, 51, 52, 53, 67, 
72, 75 ; under Elizabeth, 86, 87, 
89; in eighteenth century, 148, 
262 ; in nineteenth century, 349 ; 
glutted at beginning of nineteenth 
century, 317. 

Labour migrations, 300. 

Labour rents, 7, 35, 39, 48. 

Lambert, James, his Countryman's 
Treasure, 429. 

Lammas Day, 9, 14, 25. 

Lammas Lands, 25. 

Lamond, Miss E., edits Walter of 
Henley, etc., 419 ; The Compendious 
Examination, etc., 420. 

Lamport, W. , Cursory Remarks on the 
importance of Agriculture, 303. 

Lancashire, Report on (Holt), 295 ; 
potatoes brought to, from Ireland, 
135. t 

Land, acreage under various crops in 
1808, 456 ; in 1866-1911, 464, 465 ; 
distribution of, in 1660, 140 ; in 
1827, 456 ; " fancy " value of, 321, 
326 ; free and unfree, 6 ; profit- 
able investment at end of eighteenth 
century, 213, 220 ; suggested sur- 
render of, in extinction of tithes, 
403 ; of England and Wales, and 
its products in 1688, 455. 

" Lands," 24. 

Land agents, rise of the profession, 
151. 

Landed gentry, 141 seq. ; becoming 
commercial, 144. 

Landmarks, removal of, 156. 

Landowners, duties of, 400 ; common 
danger confronts to-day, 403 ; 
relations with tenants in 1888, 394 ; 
in 1893, 381 ; riiin of, in 1814-36, 
321 seq., 326, 327 ; supine at the 
present day, 399, 400, 401 ; far- 
mers as, between 1813 and 1835, 



298 ; plentiful in some counties, 

293, 297 ; small, decline in niunbers 

after 1689, 292 ; at present day, 

396, 417. 
Land shares, 24. 
Land tax, rejected by the Restoration 

Parliament, 142. 
Langland, William (Piers Plowman), 

49, 102, 156. 
Lantchetts, 24. 
" Large Letter, The " (of R. Child), 

109, 115, 119, 124, 126, 180. 
Lark, the, 116. 
Latimer, Hugh, 52, 62, 73 ; his 

sermons against commercial land- 
owners, 144. 
Latimers, the, 52, 296. 
" Launchers," 24. 
Laurence, Edward, his Duty of a 

Steward to his Lord, 151, 157, 298 ; 

on consolidation of farms, 298 ; on 

cow-dung as fuel, 198. 
Laiu-ence, Rev. John, 154, 164 ; his 

New System, of Agriculture, 151. 
Lauro, Pietro, translator of Columella, 

419. 
de Laval Separator, the, 390. 
Lavenham School, 195. 
de Lavergne, M., 148. 
Law Courts, extended jurisdiction of, 

54 ; venality of, 69. 
Lawes, Sir John Bennet, 217, 366, 

367, 371, 385. 
" Lawns," 24. 
Lawrence, Anthony, and John Beale, 

Nurseries, Orchards, Profitable Oar- 
dens, etc., 429. 
Lawrence-Kennedy Milking Machine, 

the, 388. 
Lawson, William, his New Orchard, 

180, 424. 
Lawsons, the, Peter and Charles, 219. 
Lea, the, 276. 
Leadam, J. S., his Domesday of In- 

closures, 61. 
Leaders, lack of, 139, 140. 
Leamington, Congress of Agricultural 

Labourers' Unions at, 410. 
Leases, in the eighteenth century, 200, 

201 ; at its close, 275 ; distrust of, in 

early nineteenth century, 325, 348 ; 

under Thomas Coke, 219, 220; 

fines for, 200, 201 ; terms of, 49, 69. 
Lease-mongers, 73. 
Leatham, Isaac, his East Riding of 

Yorkshire, 224, 239. 
Leather, home-tanned, 29 ; the 

leather tax, 321. 
" Leazes," 25. 

Lebotwood, dye-works at, 310. 
Lechlade, a port, 276. 



488 



INDEX 



Leekhampstead, parish allowances 
stopped at, 330. 

Lee, Rev. Joseph, his Ei'rafta tov 
'Aypou, or Vindication of a Regu- 
lated Enclosure, 125 seq., 155, 156, 
157, 164, 427. 

Leeds, cloth trade of, 277. 

Lefeldt Separator, the, 390. 

Leicesters (sheep), 178. 

Leicestershire, Report on (Pitt), 237 ; 
drainage in, 363 ; enclosure in, 72, 
168 ; farming in eighteenth century, 
194 ; land-holding in, 194 ; its 
superior pigs, 139. 

Leigh, Valentine, his Science of 
Surveying, 422. 

Leominster ore, 81, 98, 138. 

Lesage, H. J., on Arthur Young, 
206. 

Levant or Turkey Company, the, 
79. 

Level, the Great (see Fens and Bed- 
ford Level). 

Lever, Thomas, his sermons, 57. 

Leverington, 245. 

Levett, John, his Orderinge of Bees, 
106, 425. 

Lexington, 3. 

Leybourn, William, his Planometria, 
426. 

Licenses, from the lord of the manor, 
19 ; to export corn, 257. 

Liebault, Jean, see Estienne. 

von Liebig, Justus, 217, 360, 365 ; his 
Organic Chemistry in its Relation to 
Agriculture, 366, 367. 

Lilburne, John, 119. 

Lime, 10, 107, 109, 366 ; super- 
phosphate, 367. 

Lincolns (sheep), 178. 

Lincolnshire, Report on (Young), 223, 
239, 246 ; (Stone), 238, 245, 246, 
247, 248 ; cattle in, 239 ; industries 
in, 309. 

Lincolnshire ox, the, 180. 

Lindley, Dr. John, 361. 

Linseed, 368. 

Liquorice, 108, 136, 312. 

Littleton, Sir Thomas, his Tenures, 
420. 

Liverpool, Lord, and the wool duties, 
189. 

" Livings," 21, 50. 

Llangattock, out-door relief refused 
at, 330. 

Locke, John, on high rents, 213. 

Locust-pods, 368. 

Loders, sail-cloth industry at, 312. 

Lodge, see Palladius. 

Logan, Captain John, his Treatise of 
Honor, 144. 



Logwood mills on the Wandle, 309. 

London, importance of, as a market, 
146 ; popiaiation of, 146 ; Synod 
of, in 944, 335 ; Arthur Young in, 
195. 

Longhorn cattle, 180, 187. 

" Loons," 24. 

Lot-meadows, in Gloucestershire, 230; 
in Oxfordshire, 26. 

Loughborough, 176. 

Louth, 246. 

Lovell, Capt., drains the Fens, 115. 

Lowe, Robert, his Nottinghamshire, 
237, 293. 

Lvicerne, 110. 

Lugg, the, 276. 

St. Luke's Day, 13. 

Lustres, 80. 

Lynches, 2, 24, 28. 

Lynchets, 2. 

Lynn, Arthur Young at, 195 ; port 
of, 276 ; export of corn from, in 
eighteenth century, 1 94 ; iio wheat 
between Lynn and Holkham, 218. 

Lynn Law, the, 117. 

Lyttelton, Lord, his Considerations on 
the present state of affairs, 262. 

M. stamp on loaves, 451. 

M'Adam, John Loudon, 278, 284; 
his rivalry with Telford, 287 ; 
Surveyor-General of Roads in 
Great Britain, 287 ; of Bristol 
Roads, 287 ; his Practical Essay on 
. . . Public Roads, 287 ; his Re- 
marks on the present system of Road- 
making, 287. 

M'Donald, Donald, his Agricultural 
Writers, 419, 424, 425. 

Mace, Thomas, his Discourse . . . con- 
cerning the Highways of England, 
278, 286, 429. 

Machinery, under the Stewarts, 131 ; 
at end of the eighteenth century, 
208, 216; at beginning of the 
nineteenth century, 356, 358 ; in 
1849-53, 409 ; barn machinery. 
370 ; fostered by Royal Agri- 
cultural Society, 369. 

Madder, 108, 136, 312. 

Magdalen College, Oxford (Quinton). 
50. 

Magistrates, extended jurisdiction of, 
141 ; bridge rates and, 281 ; high- 
way rates, 284, 288 ; wages fixed 
by, 54, 86, 87 ; and the Assize of 
Bread, 448. 

Maidstone, paper industry at, 309. 

Maislen, 8. 

Maitland, Prof. F. W., 21, 22. 

Maize, 265. 



INDEX 



489 



Malbie, Nicholas, his Plaine and Easie 

way to remedie a horse, etc., 421. 
Mallett, a follower of Townshend, 175. 
Mangold- wiirzel, 208, 219 ; mangold 

fly, the, 386. 
Mannyng, Robert, his Handlyng 

Synne, 156. 
Manorial system, 1 seq. ; break-up of, 
31 seq., 214 ; churches, 336 ; courts, 
q.v. ; roads under the, 280, 281. 
Manufactures, development of, 205, 

211 308 

Manure, 10, 51, 94, 97, 104, 109, 174 ; 

artificial, 366 seq. ; 1837-74, 365- 

368 ; in Essex, 192 ; farmyard 

muck, 365 ; Googe on, 100, 101 ; in 

Hertfordshire, 191 ; Sir Hugh Plat 

on, 100 ; " Muck the mother of 

money," 218 ; in Suffolk, 192 ; a 

weed-carrier, 172. 

Manwood, John, his Forest Laws, 424. 

Market-Gardeners' Compensation Act, 

the (1895), 381. 
Markham, Gervase, on cattle, 138 ; on 
sheep, 138 ; on pigs, 139 ; his 
doubtful reputation, 105 ; under- 
takes to write no more books on the 
diseases of cattle, etc., 423 ; his 
Cheape and Good Husbandry, 137, 
422 ; his Country Farm, 105, 422 ; 
his Discourse on Horsenianshippe, 
105, 422 ; his English Housewife, 
82, 105, 422 ; his Enrichment of the 
Weald of Kent, 94, 105, 423 ; his 
Farewell to Husbandry, 105, 422 ; 
his How to Chuse Ride Trayne, etc., 
106,422; his other works, 422, 423. 
Marl, 10, 31, 51, 94, 100, 109, 366; 
revived by Townshend, 174 ; in 
Suffolk, 192. 
Marshall, William, 382 ; his Abstract of 
the Reports to the Board of Agricul- 
ture, 308 ; his Appropriation and 
Inclosure, etc., 292 ; his General 
Survey . . . of the Rural Economy 
of England, 196 ; his Midland 
Counties, 185, 292 ; accoiuit of his 
work, 196, 197 ; at Dishley, 184 ; 
on enclosure in Leicestershire, 168 ; 
on the Fen lands, 244 ; in the Vale 
of Gloucester, 198 ; on Hereford- 
shire roads, 204 ; on Leicestershire 
roads, 203 ; on Lincolnshire cattle, 
239 ; on " lynches," 2 ; on Oxford 
roads, 204 ; on the Vale of Picker- 
ing, 200 ; on rams, 186 ; on roads 
in the eighteenth century, 284 ; on 
" Terramania," 292 ; on wild field - 
grass husbandry, 2 ; on Yorkshire 
in 1787, 201. 
Marsham, 240. 



Marston Moor, hunters at the battle 

of, 104. 
Martens, 112. 

Mascall, Leonard, his Booke of Cattell, 
105, 138 ; his Countryman's Jewel, 
138 ; his Ordring of Poultry, 106 ; 
his Book of . . . how to graff and 
plant all sortes of Trees, 421 ; on 
pigs, 139 ; on sheep, 138 ; on soils, 
136. 
Mashelson, 8. 
Maslin, 8. 
Massinger, Philip, A new way to pay 

old Debts, 63, 69. 
Massledine, 8. 
Mather, William, his Repairing of 

Highways, 430. 
Mathew, Francis, suggests the Thames 
and Avon Canal, 277 ; his Mediterr- 
anean Passage by Water from London 
to Bristol, 277, 427 ; his Opening of 
Rivers for Navigation, 277, 427 ; his 
Mediterranean Passage ... be- 
tween . . . Lynn and Yarmouth, 
427. 

Maul, a, 10. 

Maulden, small holdings at, 415, 416. 

Mavor, William, his Berkshire, 293. 

Maxey, Edward, his New Instruction 
of Plowing, etc., 171, 424. 

Mead, 18. 

Meager, Leonard, his English Gar- 
dener, 429 ; his Mystery of Hus- 
bandry, 429. 

Meat, dead, importation of, after 
1877, 378. 

Mechi, John Joseph, 372. 

Meikle, Andrew, his threshing- 
machine, 208. 

"A Member of the Legislature," An 
Enquiry into the Reasons for and 
against Inclosing the Open Fields, 
303. 

Menai Straits, the, and Anglesey 
cattle, 179. 

Mendelism, 385. 

Mendip Hills, the, in the eighteenth 
century, 154 ; a parsimonious 
landlord, 248. 

Merchant Adventurers, the, 79. 

Meres, 24. 

Mersey, the, 276, 278. 

Mersey and Trent Canal, the, 278. 

Merstham, the Surrey Iron Railway 
and, 352. 

Merula, G., editor of Columella, 419. 

Mestilon, 8. 

Metayer, the, 42. 

Metcalf, John (Blind Jack of Knares- 
borough), 284. 

Meteorology, 385. 



490 



INDEX 



Methegl5m, 18. 

Middle class, rise of the, in Tudor 
times, 85. 

Middle horn cattle, 179. 

Middlemen, 73, 256. 

Middlesex, Report on (Middleton), 
222, 237 ; (Foot), 237 ; and Hert- 
fordshire compared, 190, 191 ; the 
richest county, 146. 

Middleton, John, his Middlesex, 222, 
237. 

Migration of labour, effected by the 
Labourers' Union, 410. 

Milan decree, the, 270. 

Mildenhall, the, 116. 

Mildew, 109. 

Miles, Abraham, his Countryman's 
Friend, etc., 428. 

Military tenure, abolition of, 141 seq. 

Milk, of ewes, 95, 202 ; milch cows, 
388 ; milking machines, 388 ; 
pedigree milkers, 389 ; milk re- 
cords, 388, 389 ; the Sale of Milk 
Regulations, 388 ; scarcer in vil- 
lages than in towns, 415 ; wholesale 
trade in, 312. 

Mills, 19, 29. 

Milton, John, his tract Of Education, 
addressed to Samuel Hartlib, 108. 

Minster, the old, 336. 

Mirabeau, and Church lands, 395. 

Miscellin, 8. 

Mixtilio, 8. 

Moduses, 342. 

Moellenbrock, V. A., his Cochlear ia 
Curiosa, 429. 

Mole, mills on the, 309. 

Mole-heaps, 94. 

Molesworth, Lord, on Tusser, 91. 

Monastic establishments, 33, 67, 75 ; 
and the Danish invasion, 334, 335 ; 
dissolution of, 85, 89 ; in the Fen 
lands, 116 ; and tithes, 333 seq. 

" Monday men," at Castle Combe, 
43. 

Monmouth's rebellion, 140. 

Moor evil, the (on Otmoor), 235. 

Moore, Adam, his Bread for the Poor, 
etc., 125 seg-., 427. 

Moore, John, minister of Knaptoft, 
his Crying Sin of England, etc., 125, 
427 ; his Scripture word against 
Inclosure, 125. 

Moore, Sir Jonas, his History of the 
Great Level of the Fennes, 116, 430 ; 
his England's Interest, etc., 430. 

Mops, 54, 88. 

More, Sir Thomas, his Utopia, 61, 
63, 68, 75, 420. 

Morfe Common (sheep), 178, 228. 

Morning Chronicle, The, 370. 



Mortimer, John, his Whole Art of 
Husbandry, etc., 131, 135, 137 ; on 
cattle, 138, 180 ; on horses, 137 ; 
on pigs, 139 ; on sheep, 138. 

Morton, John, Archbishop, his straw- 
berries, 116; his " Leam," 117. 

Morton, John Chalmers, 361. 

Moryson, Fynes, his Itinerary (1617), 
8, 9, 85. 

Mother churches, 333, 336. 

Motors, agricultural, 387. 

Mount Prosperous, Jethro Tull's 
farm, 170. 

Muggs (sheep), from Northumberland, 
178. 

Mulse water, 18. 

Mundesley, 51. 

Murrain, the, 16, 51, 53, 65, 73. 

Murray, Adam, his Warwickshire, 236. 

Muscovite Company, the, 79. 

Musk-cats, 112. 

Mutton, 178, 189 ; imports of, in 1882 
and 1899, 378. 

Naphthalene, 386. 

Napoleonic wars, 268, 269 and passim; 

effect of, on trade, etc., 317 seq. 
Naseby Field in 1770, 198. 
National debt, the (1792-1815), 316. 
National expenditure, (1792-1815), 

316; (1782-1792), 321; (1802-1812), 

391. 
National income, the, in 1688, 145. 
Navy, Maintenance Act of 1562, 258 ; 

contracts in 1813, 319. 
Nene, the, 116. 

Nettles, linen made from, 29, 30. 
Neutral ships, corn in, seized, 265. 
Newbury, industries at, 309, 310. 
Newcastle, Duke of, his Methode et 

Invention Nouvelle de dresser les 

Chevaux, 183, 427. 
Newfoundland, nets for, made in 

Dorsetshire, 312. 
Newington Butts, 24. 
New Leicesters, 186. 
Newmarket, races at, established by 

Charles I., 183. 
Newport, Treaty of, 142. 
Newspaper, the first agricultural, 133. 
Newton, Sir Isaac, 107. 
New Zealand meat, 378. 
Nicholls, Sir George, his History of the 

English Poor Law, 266, 317 ; his 

estimate of the population, 266. 
Nineteenth Century, The, for April, 

1889, article on An Agricultural 

Department, 400. 
Noddel, 119. 
Norden, John, his Es^ex described, 97, 

423 ; his Surveyor's Dialogue, 115, 



INDEX 



491 



423 ; his Speculum Britanniae, 423 ; 
on the squatters, 126 ; on the Vale 
of Belvoir, 168 ; on the Vale of 
Taunton, 135. 

Norfolk, Report on (Kent), 239, 305 ; 
(Young), 197, 293 ; Defoe on, 166 ; 
enclosure in, 66, 216, 305 ; estates 
of all sizes in, 293 ; farmer in 
Devonshire, 202 ; farming in eigh- 
teenth century, 194 ; Kett's re- 
belhon, 48, 72, 96 ; light lands of 
Norfolk, 174, 373 ; live-stock sent 
to Smithfield, 194 ; Marshall on the 
farmers of, 193 ; ploughing in, 109 ; 
polled cattle of, 180 ; turnips in, 
166 ; writs and executions in 1814- 
15, 323 ; Norfolk exports of corn, 
194. 

North country, the, rise of industries 
in, 308. 

Northampton, boot industry at, 310. 

Northamptonshire, Report on (Don- 
aldson), 236, 244 ; industries in, 
310. 

Northumberland, Report on (Bailey 
and Culley), 177, 222, 226 ; (and 
see John Grey of Dilston). 

Norwich, labour statutes at, 53 ; 
Icknield Street, 279 ; roads near, 
279 ; waste land near, 240 ; 
woollen trade at, 309. 

Nottingham, industries at, 310. 

Nottinghamshire, Report on (Lowe), 
237, 293 ; industries in, 310. 

Notts (sheep), from Devonshire, 178. 

Nourse, Timothy, his Campania 
Foelix, 150, 430. 

" Nowe-a-dayes " (Ballad), 62. 

Oakingham (Wokingham), silk in- 
dustry at, 310. 

Oats, sown with barley, 9 ; best 
sown in March, 109. 

Observations on a Pamphlet entitled 
An Enquiry into the Advantages and 
Disadvantages of Enclosure, 303. 

Odams, Mr., fertiliser, 367. 

Odiham, Agricultural Society at, 209. 

Oenomel, 18. 

Oglander, Sir John, his Memoirs, 83. 

Oil, from nuts, 18 ; from turnips. 111; 
from cole-seed, 131. 

Oil cake, 218. 

An Old Almanack . . . printed in 
1710, quoted, 150. 

Ombersley, 276. 

Onions, 102. 

Open-field system, the, 224 seq., 23 
seq., 51, 53 ; in 1700, 154 ; in 1726, 
154 ; in 1837, 354 ; Arthur Young 
on, 199 ; break-up of, 149 seq. ; in 



Buckinghamshire, voluntary agree- 
ments fail, 162 ; crops under, 92, 
93, 97, 155, 199 ; decline of, 103 ; 
disadvantages of, 155 seq., 224 seq., 
199; economics of, 122, 132, 134; 
enclosures and, 71, 97, 99; enclosure 
strengthens, 56 ; enclosure of waste 
affects, 165 ; exhaustion under, 
166 ; extinction of, 291 ; farmers 
different from enclosure farmers, 
222 ; Fen lands, analogy with, 118 
seq. ; Goths and Vandals of, 222 ; 
herdsmen, payment to, 65 ; 
manure, lack of, 65 ; sheep on, 95, 
155. 

Opium, taken for ague in tlie Fen 
lands, 245. 

Oratories, 335, 336. 

Orchards, 106. 

Ormerod, Eleanor, 386. 

Osborne, royal farm at, 360. 

Otmoor, 235. 

Ouse, the Great, 1 16, 276 ; the Lesser, 
116. 

Out-door relief, see Poor Laws. 

Out-field land, in Scotland, 160. 

Ovens, of the lord of the manor, 19 ; 
village, 29. 

Overend and Gurney, failure of, 374. 

Ownership, the incentive of, 415 ; 
can it be established on a more 
democratic basis, 417 ; a vital 
principle, 417. 

Owse, 109. 

Oxen, dead-weight of, 98 ; used for 
ploughs, 13, 92, 202, 354 ; Hartlib's 
remedy for colic in, 111 ; the 
Durham ox, 188 ; the Lincoln- 
shire ox, 180, 181. 

Oxford, Royal Agricultural Society's 
show at, in 1839, 369. 

Oxfordshire, Report on (Young), 222 ; 
(Davis), 234, 293 ; industries in, 
310. 

Ox-gang, broad, 21 ; narrow, 22. 

Pack-saddles, 204. 
Paddle-plough, for potatoes, 369. 
Page, T. W., The End of Villeinage in 

England, 23, 40. 
Palavicino, Sir Horatio, 114. 
PaHssy, Bernard, 89. 
Palladius, on draining, 10 ; rhymed 

versionof, 33, 419; 99. 
PalUards, 76. 

Palmer, John, his mail-coaches, 284. 
Panic, agricultural, 371 ; financial, 

212, 37'4, 375. 
Paper money, 211 ; destroyed, 212, 

213. 
Parham's ploughs, 104. 



492 



INDEX 



Paring land, 107. 

Paris green, 386. 

Parish allowances, see Poor Laws. 

Parish church, prima facie entitled to 

tithes, 338. 
Parish farms and allotments, 408. 
Parkes, Josiah, his mode of draining, 

364. 
Parkinson, Richard, his Huntingdon- 
shire, 244. 
Parliament, and enclosure, 60 ; 

Government controlled by, 141 ; 

and Charles II., 141. 
Parr, Dr. Samuel, attends Davy's 

lectures, 216. 
Parret, the, 232, 276. 
Parson's Acre, 26. 
Parson's Close, 26. 
Parson Drove, 245. 
Parson's Green, George II. upset near, 

283. 
Partageforct', the, 397. 
Partnerships, agricultural, 3, 7, 20, 23, 

28, 36, 38, 56, 58, 105, 132, 154. 
Partridge, John, his Treasurie of 

Commodious Concertes, 106, 422. 
Paston Letters, the, 51. 
Pastons, the, 51. 
Pasture (and see Common Pastures), 

separated from tillage, 3 ; restored 

to tillage in Tudor times, 60, 61 ; 

pasture-area in 1871 and 1901, 378 ; 

improved treatment of, 384. 
Patents, agricultural, 104 ; paucity of 

under the Commonwealth, 105 ; 

numerous between 1780 and 1816, 

208. 
Paulet, Mrs. of Wymondham, her 

Stilton cheeses, 187. 
" Pauls," 24. 
St. Paul's Cathedral, chapter of, 

services on their manors, 11. 
Pauperism, voluntary, 329, 330 ; 

pauper labour, 329. 
» Pays de Caux, the, 5. 
" Peace and Plenty," a mockery, 

317. 
Peacocks, 17. 

Pearce, William, his Berkshire, 234. 
Peasant homes, 5. 
Peasant proprietors, 396, 397 (and 

see Small Holdings, and Land- 
owners, small) ; demanded by the 

Labourers' Union, 410. 
Peasants' Rising, the, of 1381, 42. 
Peck loaf, the, 450. 
Pedigree corn, 354. 
Pedlars, 76, 284. 
Peel, Sir Robert, and tithes, 344, 

345. 
Pell, Albert, his Reminiscences, 405. 



Pennington, W., his Reflections on In- 
closing Large Commons and Common 
Fields, 303. 

Peony seed, adulteration with, 19. 

Pepys, Samuel, on the neglect of 
agricultvire, 105. 

Peruvian guano, 366. 

Peterborough Fen, 243, 244. 

Petersen Separator, the, 390. 

Petty, Sir William, his Essays in 
Political Arithmetic, 143. 

Petworth, Lord Egremont at, 207 ; 
sheep-shearings at, 221. 

" Philo-Anglicus," his Bread for the 
Poor, 429. 

" Philotheos Physiologus," pseudo- 
nym of Thomas Tryon, 430. 

Pickering, Vale of, in 1787, 200, 292. 

Piers Plowman, see William Langland. 

Pigeons, 18. 

Pightels, 25. 

Pigs, colours of, 139 ; Leicestershire, 
139, 168 ; Markham on, 139 ; 
Mascallon, 139 ; Mortimer on, 139 ; 
in 1837, 354. 

Pilgrim Fathers, the, 3. 

Pillory, the, 19. 

The Pioneers and Progress of English 
Farming, 393 seq. 

Pitt, William, his Leicestershire, 237 ; 
his Staffordshire, 227, 294. 

A Plan for relieving the Rates by 
Cottage Acres, 298. 

Plat, Sir Hugh, his Arte of setting of 
Come, 101, 423 ; his Jewel House 
of Art and Nature, 100, 423 ; his 
other works, 423 ; his farm at St. 
Alban's, 101 ; on fattening poultry, 
106 ; mechanical sowing, 171. 

" Plate-layers," 351. 

Plattes, Gabriel, his Discovery of 
Infinite Treasure, etc., 123, 425 ; his 
other works, 425 ; on the Vale of 
Belvoir, 136 ; his mechanical sower, 
104, 107, 131, 171; possible author 
of Hartlib's Essay for Advance- 
ment of Husbandry-Learning, 426 ; 
his death, 107, 112. 

Playfair, Lord, editor of Liebig's 
Organic Chemistry in its applica- 
tions to Agriculture, 366. 

The Pleasant Land of France, 397. 

Pleuro-pneumonia, 372, 376. 

Plot, Robert, his Natural History of 
Oxfordshire, 10, 430. 

Ploughs, cumbersome, 109 ; double- 
furrowed, 109, 131 ; in Gloucester- 
shire, 203 ; in Middlesex, 203 ; 
Norfolk ploughs, 202, 208; "paddle- 
ploughs " for potatoes, 369 ; 
Rotherham ploughs, 202, 208 ; 



INDEX 



493 



parish ploughs, 199 ; paring 
ploughs, 115; Small's ploughs, 
202, 208 ; steam ploughs, 369 ; 
in Suffolk, 193 ; in Tudor times, 
91, 92 ; in 1837, 356, 369. 

Plough-lands, 21. 

Plough teams, manorial, 21 ; under 
Elizabeth, 92 ; in Kent under 
Cromwell, 202. 

Plumstead Marshes, embankment of, 
115. 

Plymley, Joseph, his Shropshire, 294. 

Polders, 114. 

Pole, length of the, in Hampshire and 
Cheshire, 24. 

A Political Enquiry into the Con- 
sequences of Enclosing Waste Lands, 
etc., 303. 

Politics, agitation in 1888 and 1912, 
394 ; agricultural labourers and, 
406, 411, 412 ; included in pro- 
gramme of Labourers' Union, 410 ; 
landowner impoverished by the 
State, 402 ; outlook in 1888 and 
1912, 398. 

Polo, the Polo Pony Society, 384. 

Pomeroy, William Thomas, his Wor- 
cestershire, 229. 

Pontefract, liquorice grown at, 136. 

Poor Laws, Extracts from the Infor- 
mation received by H.M. Com- 
missioners as to the . . . operation 
of the Poor Laivs, 330, 437 ; Report 
on the, of 1834, 329,437. 

Poor Laws, the. Act of 1388, 432 ; of 
1503, 432 ; of 1530, 74, 432 ; of 
1536, 74, 432 ; of 1547, 432, 434 ; 
of 1549, 432 ; of 1572, 432 ; of 
1575, 432, 434 ; of 1597, 432, 434 ; 
of 1601, 433, 434 ; of 1662, 434 ; 
of 1691, 435; of 1722, 435, 436; 
of 1776, 435; of 1782, 435; of 1795, 

436 ; of 1796, 436 ; of 1815, 436 ; 
of 1834, 325, 330, 349. 407, 408, 

437 ; of 1840, 433 ; under Richard 
II., 432 ; Henry VII., 431 ; Henry 
VIII., 74, 432 ; Edward VI., 432, 
434 ; Elizabeth, 432 seq. ; Charles 
II., 434 ; William and Mary, 435 ; 
George I., 148, 435, 436 ; George 
III., 433, 435 seq. ; Wilham IV., 
437 ; Victoria, 433, 438 ; able- 
bodied vagrants, 74, 432, 436 ; 
administration of, in 1813-34, 328 ; 
agriculturists, a seriovis change for, 
432 ; allowances, Berkshire scale 
of, 327, 436 ; almshouses, 435 ; 
annual value, basis of Poor Rates, 
431 ; assessment of 1834, 431 ; 
bastardy, the law of, and, 329, 437 ; 
Berkshire scale of allowances, 327, 



436 ; Board, the Poor Law, of 
1847, 437, 438 ; classification of 
paupers, 433 ; collectors, 432 ; 
Commission of Inquiry, the, in 
1832, 330, 436 ; Commissioners, 
three appointed in 1834, 437 ; 
Committees, Select, of 1817, 436 ; 
of 1820, 1821, 1822, 1833 and 
1836, 324, 326 ; Coode, G., his 
Report in 1851, 434 ; Correction, 
Houses of, 432, 434, 435 ; Crown, 
subsidies for, 431 ; depression of 
1813-36, 436 ; difficulties accen- 
tuated by increased mendicancy 
and by industrial changes, 434 ; 
distress niade applicable to Poor 
Rates, 433 ; Earby, Sir Anthony, 
his case, 433 ; estimate of idle 
vagrants, in 1605, 434 ; expendi- 
ture under, in 1776, 435 ; in 1783 
and 1815, 316, 317 ; in 1818, 317 ; 
in 1832, 331; in 1837, 326, 327; 
fair wage, a, 436 ; feudal tenures, 
occasionally the origin of Poor 
Rates, 431 ; Friendly Societies, 
436 ; Gilbert's Act, 327, 435, 437 ; 
Guardians, 435 ; inadequacy of the 
voluntary principle, 432 ; income 
tax, a moral, 432 ; industrial 
invention and, 435 ; inquisition 
of, 1334, the, 431 ; Justices, to 
supervise administration, 432, 436 ; 
under Act of 1691, 435 ; labour, 
mobility of, restricted, 434 ; labour 
test, the, 434 ; laxity of Poor Laws 
under George III., 433, 435 ; ha- 
bility, based on ability to pay, 433 ; 
national taxes raised by local 
rates, 431 ; origin of rates, 431 ; 
optional charity becomes com- 
pulsory almsgiving and finally 
local taxation, 432 ; out-relief, 327, 
331, 407, 408, 436 ; refused in four 
parishes, 330 ; overseers, 433, 435, 
436 ; personalty, relieved from 
rates by Act of 1840, 433 ; popu- 
lation, growth of, and, 435 ; prices, 
rise of, in 1765-74, 435 ; in 1795-6, 
436 ; railways and, 408 ; rates, 
in mediaeval times, 431 ; 1782- 
1792, 321 ; in 1812, 321 ; in 1832, 
350 ; in 1837, 350 ; at Coggeshall, 
308; at Stroud, 311; parish 
allowances, 329 ; abolished, 331 ; 
riots in favour of, 330 ; records of 
farms and houses, 431 ; relaxation 
of original principles in 1795-1834, 
433 ; relief in kind, 437 ; relieving 
officers, 437 ; removal of paupers, 
434, 435, 436 ; rental value, the 
measure of liability, 433 ; rent. 



494 



INDEX 



relieved of liability, 433 ; none to 
be paid as out-relief, 437 ; report of 
1834, 329, 431 ; of 1842-3, 408 ; of 
1851, 434 ; Savings Banks, 436 ; 
Settlement, the lav,- of, 432, 434 
seq. ; in 1388, 432 ; in 1795, 436 ; 
Speenhamland Act, the, 436 ; 
Stanleye's Remedy, 434 ; support 
of the poor, distinguished from cost 
of administration, 432 ; " Tenths 
and Fifteenths," 431 ; tests, desti- 
tution, 435 ; labovir, 434 ; settle- 
ment, 434 ; workhouse, 435 ; 
abolished, 436 ; revived, 331, 408, 
437 ; Unions, 435, 437 ; validi 
medicantes, 74, 432, 434, 436 ; 
volimtary pauperism, 435 ; wages 
supplemented from the Poor Kates, 
327, 328, 407 ; wars, of 1756-63, 
435 ; of 1774-83, 435 ; wheat, 
price of, 1755-64, 435 ; 1765-74, 
435 ; work to be provided for able- 
bodied poor, in 1547, 1576, 1597, 
and 1601, 434 ; in 1782, 435. 

" Poor Tom," 76. 

Pope, Alexander, " among the 
cabbages," 173 ; on " Turnip " 
Townshend, 175. 

Population, agricultural, census 
returns of, 394, (and Appendix 
VIL); in 1888 and 1912, 399 
census of 1801 and 1811, 266 
corn-consumption of, 266, 267 
of home-grown and foreign wheat 
272 ; enclosure and, 60, 290 seq. 
growth of in eighteenth century 
266, 435 ; in 1792 and 1815, 316 , 
of London, 146 ; status of (King's 
estimates), in 1688, 146 ; estimates 
of, by Finlaison, King, Smith, 
Nicholls, and Porter, 266 ; Malthus, 
397. 

Portbury, Lord Berkeley at, 32. 

Porter, George Richardson, a Free 
Trader, 214, 272, 273 ; his estimate 
of the population, 266 ; compari- 
son between increase of population 
and anaount of home-grown wheat, 
272 ; on importation of wheat, 
214 ; his Progress of the Nation, 
214, 266, 272, 316, 317. 

Port man, Lord, and tenant-right in 
1843, 404. 

Portsmouth, price of wheat at, in 
1813, 319. 

Potash, muriate of, 366. 

Potatoes, failure of, in 1812, 265 ; in 
1816, 323 ; in 1877, 376 ; potato 
famine of 1845-6, 274, 371 : a 
farm crop, 104, 108, 131, 135, 219, 
265; on fen land, 131; on open- 



fields, not possible, 122 ; eaten with 
butter and sugar, 135 ; potato 
harvester, the, 387 ; paddle-plough 
for, 369 ; at Holkham, 220 ; in 
Lancashire, 194 ; in Shakespeare, 
102 ; varieties of, 108. 

" Potts," 204. 

Poultry, 17, 106 ; modern develop- 
ment of poultry farming, 383, 
384. 

Pound, the, 19. 

Poverty, the problem of, in the 
sixteenth century, 73, 74 ; (and see 
Appendix II.). 

Powell, Robert, his Depopulation 
Arraigned, 425. 

Power presses, 387. 

" Practice with Science," 348, 361. 

Pratte, William, 99. 

Prescriptive rights, non valent contra 
rempublicam, 400. 

Preston, R., M.P., his Review of the 
present Ruined Condition of the 
Landed and Agricultural Interests, 
319, 323, 328 ; his Further Observa- 
tions on the State of the Nation, 319, 
323. 

Preston, on the Ribble, 277. 

Price, John, his Herefords, 354. 

Price, Richard, his Observations on 
Reversionary Payments, etc., 303. 

Prickly comfrey, 208. 

" Priggers," 76. 

Pringle, Andrew, his Westmoreland, 
295. 

Pringle, Mr., introduces drilling at 
Coldstream, 176, 177. 

Prized loaves, 450. 

Proclamation, Royal, of 1349, 41, 53. 

Property Tax, the, 321 ; for 1814, 
321. 

Protection, small progress under, 370 ; 
farmers reliance on, 349 ; led to 
gambling in land, 371 ; can never 
be revived so as to help corn- 
growers, 383. 

Protestants, settled in the Fens, 119. 

Prussia, puts a heavy export duty on 
corn, 270. 

" Pseudon"iisius," 427. 

Public duties of landowners, 400. 

Purchase by tenant, the lesser of two 
evils, 402 ; loans from the State 
for, 406 ; by public bodies, tithe 
redemption and, 403. 

Purdy , Frederick, paper in the Journal 
of the Statistical Society, for 1860, 
470. 

Purification, Feast of the, 9. 

Purveyance and pre-emption, sur- 
rendered by the Crown, 142. 



INDEX 



495 



Pusey, Philip, 359, 363 ; and tenant- 
right, in 1847, 404, 405. 

Putnam, Miss, her Enforcement of the 
Statutes of Labourers, 42. 

" Pykes," 25. 

Quantock Hills, the, in the eighteenth 

century, 154. 
Quartly, Francis, his North Devons, 

354. 
Quassia, 386. 
Quayle, Thomas, his Channel Islands, 

225. 
Quinces, 136, 
Quinton, the Vicar of, his letter to 

Magdalen College, 50. 
Quit-rents at Berkeley, 45. 

Rabbits, 18 ; Adolphus Speed on, 
111 ; Gregory King on, 132, 145. 

Rabelais, 34, 98. 

Rail- ways, 350 seq. ; laid by Canal 
Companies, 351 ; the Surrey Iron 
Rail-way, 352. 

Railways, 350 ; only took goods at 
first, 353 ; collapse in 1845-7, 371 ; 
development of, in America and 
Germany, 375 ; Liverpool and 
Manchester, 360, 353 ; London and 
Birmingham, 350 ; Poor Rates 
relieved by, 408 ; Railway and 
Canal Traffic Act of 1888,^ 379; 
railway mania, the, 371 ; rendered 
possible the improvements of 1837- 
74, 362 ; Stockton and Darlington, 
350, 352, 353. 

Raines, 24. 

Rainhill, locomotive trials at, 353. 

Raleigh, a " free-trader," 72 ; fond 
of gardening, 101. 

Ramsey, his patent machine sower, 
104. 

Ramsey monastery, 116. 

Rankei'llor, Mr. Hope of, 173. 

Rape, in Cleves, 100; 108, 136. 

Rape dust, 366. 

Raps, 24. 

Rathborne, Aaron, his Surveyor, 424. 

Ray, John, his Catalogue Plantaruni 
Angliae, 134, 429 ; his Select Re- 
mains, 160. 

Raynham, 172, 173. 

Rea, John, his Flora, 428. 

Reade, John, his drain-pipe, 364. 

Reapers, 12. 

Reaping machines, first mention 
of, 99, 131; the Beverley, 358; 
present day, 387. 

Rebecca riots, the, 282. 

Records, of milk, 388, 389 ; of con- 
dition of farm, optional, 406 ; 



of farms and houses in connection 
with Poor Rates, 431. 

Rectors, lay, 340. 

Rectories, 340. 

Redwater, 386. 

Reeve, Gabriel, appropriates Sir R. 
Weston's Discours, 108, 429 ; on 
turnips, 134. 

Reeves, 8 ; at Berkeley, 46 ; field- 
reeves, under Enclosure Act of 
1773, 224 ; at Wilburton, 245. 

Reformation, the, and parochial 
organisation, 340. 

Registry of land, suggested by 
Yarranton, 131. 

Regrating, 256, 264. 

Reins, 24. 

Remedies, in Stewart times, 111, 112. 

Remnant, Richard, his Discourse on 
Bees, 425. 

Rent, 55 ; in 1806 and 1814, 324 ; 
in 1850, 371 ; in 1870, 375 ; in 
1880-4, 377 ; exorbitant, 69, 70, 71, 
73 ; Locke on, 213 ; readjustment 
of in 1836, 325 ; reductions of, in 
1814-16, 324 ; Ricardo on, 210 : 
pajonent of, in produce, 17, 18: 
and the price of corn, 210 ; and 
tenant-right, 406. 

Report on the Cattle Plague, 1865-7. 
372. 

Reports to Board of Agriculture, 284. 
292, 305, 370 ; Eastern and North- 
eastern district, 238 seq., 292 ; the 
Fen district, 243 seq. ; Marshall's 
abstract of, 307 ; North and North- 
western district, 226 seq., 294 ; 
South-eastern and Midland district, 
234 seq., 293 ; on tithes in kind, 
341 ; on wages, 313 ; West Mid- 
land and South-western district, 
228 seg., 294; (and see under each 
county). 

Restoration, the, distribution of land 
at, 140 ; fiscal changes at, 141, 142. 

Reyce, Robert, his Breviary of Suffolk, 
192, 424; on " milchkine," 193. 

Rham, Rev. William Lewis, 360. 

Ricardo, David, on rent and the 
price of corn, 210. 

Rice, 265. 

Richard II., legislates against beggars, 
75 ; horse-breeding luider, 181. 

Richard III., rural exodus under, 60. 

Richardson, W., On Famine and the 
Poor Laws, 320. 

" Richmond Commission, the," (1879- 
1882), 377, 378, 380, 410. 

Ricks, 94. 

Rigby, Dr. Edward, his Holkham and 
its Agriculture, 217, 



496 



INDEX 



Rigg, Mr. J. M., on Fitzherbert, 90. 

Rigs, 24. 

Rinderpest, the, 372. 

Riots, the " Rebecca," 282 ; of 1830- 
31, 325, 330. 

Ripple, 229. 

Roads (and see Highways and Turn- 
pike), 132 ; in Cambridgeshire, 
244; in Devonshire, 204 ; in Essex, 
192; in Hertfordshire, 190; in Ire- 
land, 286 ; in Lancashire, 203 ; in 
Leicestershire, 204 ; in Middlesex, 
190; at Newport, 203 ; in Norfolk, 

279 ; in the North, 203 ; in Oxford- 
shire, 204 ; in Scotland, 286 ; in 
Suffolk, 192 ; in the Weald of Kent, 
281 ; in Wiltshire, 233 ; by-roads, 

280 ; Commissioners in Scotland, 
286 ; from Glasgow to Carlisle, 287; 
the Great North Road, 282 ; from 
Shrewsbury to Bangor, 284 ; to 
Holyhead, 287 ; repair of, 285 ; a 
religious duty, 280 ; road-rate in 
1812, 321 ; Roman roads, 279 ; 
under the manorial system, 280, 

281 ; in Tudor times, 281 ; under 
Charles II., 283 ; under George II., 
283 ; in 1770, 203 ; at beginning of 
the nineteenth century, 285. 

Robinson, Ralph, shepherd to George 
III. at Windsor, 196. 

Robson, James, of Belford, his 
Cheviots, 354. 

Robynson, Ralph, translator of 
Utopia, 420. 

" Rocket, the," 353. 

Rockingham, Lord, 207. 

Rodomel, 18. 

Rogation week, 6. 

Rogers, Thorold, his Six Centuries of 
Work and Wages, 14. 

Rogues and vagabonds, 74, 76. 

Rollright, Fowler at, 187. 

Roman Catholicism, and agrarian dis- 
content, 58. 

Romney Marsh (sheep), 178. 

Rooks, 93. 

Roses, Wars of the, 48, 50, 57, 75. 

Rossendale, 153. 

Roston Common, 227. 

Rot, the, 15 ; in 1735, 149 ; in 1830- 
31,325; in 1879, 376; in Bedford- 
shire, 241 ; in Cambridgeshire, 
242 ; in Cumberland, 227 ; in 
Gloucestershire, 230 ; in Oxford- 
shire, 235, 236 ; on commons, 128, 
156 ; remedies for, Hartlib's. Ill ; 
Thomas Tryon's, 134. 

Rothamsted, 172, 366, 383, 385. 

Rothes, Earl of, grows turnips in 
1716, 160. 



Rothschild, Lord, his milking herds, 
389. 

Roundsmen, 329. 

Rous, John (1411-91), J^isioria Regum 
Angliae, 60, 66. 

Roy, William, his Rede me and be nott 
Wrothe, 63. 

Royal Agricultural Society, the, 359 
seq. ; its foimdation, aims and 
methods, 359 ; its Journal, 359, 
370 ; its show at Gloucester in 
1853, 369 ; at Oxford in 1839, 369. 

Royal Agricultural Benevolent Insti- 
tution, the, 394. 

Royal Chemical Society, the, 366. 

Royal Society, the, 131. 

Rudge, Thomas, his Gloucestershire, 
231, 294, 311. 

Ruffler, the, 76. 

Ruscam, Richard, editor of Leonard 
Mascall, 136, 421. 

Rusden, Moses, his Further Discovery 
of Bees, 430. 

Rush-bearings, 6. 

Russell, Lord John, and tithes, 344, 
345. 

Russia, Emperor of, at Holkham, 
221 ; hostility of, in 1800, 270. 

Russo-Turkish War, the, in 1877, 376. 

Rye, sown with wheat, 8, 93. 

Ryeland wool, 80, 98, 178. 

S. A., author of The Husbandman 
Farmer and Grasier's Compleat 
Instructor, 430. 

S. W., gentleman, author of The Com- 
pendious Examination, 70, 420. 

Sables, 112. 

Saffron, 108, 136, 312. 

Sainfoin, 110, 136, 219. 

Salads, 102. 

Sale of Food and Drugs Act, the, 
of 1899, 381. 

Salisbury Plain, 1. 

Salt, 366. 

Saltpetre, 366. 

Sand, sea, 10, 97, 109. 

Sandringham, Royal Farm at, 360. 

Sandwich, port of, 280 ; salt works at, 
309. 

Sandys, Sir William, 276. 

Sankey Brook Canal, the, 277. 

Sarclers, 11. 

Savings Banks, 436. 

Sawbridgeworth, 384. 

Saxmundham, hops at, 193. 

Scab, the, 15, 95, 156. 

Scarifiers, 387. 

Schools and school hours, 391. 

Science, its benefits to agriculture, 
385 seq. 



INDEX 



497 



Scot, Reginald, his Hop Garden, 92, 
99, 421. 

Scott, Sir W., his Heart of Midlothian, 
173. 

Scotland, Act of Union, and weights 
and measures, 208 ; cattle of, 1 80 ; 
duty-free corn in, 261 ; General 
Enclosure Act for (1095), 160; 
milk records in, 389 ; roads in 
1803, 286; the " seven ill years," 
261. 

Scottish farmers in 1700, 159, 160, 
161 ; Jethro Tull and, 172, 173. 

Scragg, Thomas, liis drain-pipe 
macliine, 364. 

Scrope, Poulett, on " lynches," 2 ; 
his History oj Castle Combe, 43. 

Sea power, and the Corn Laws, 257, 
258. 

Sedgmoor, 154, 232 ; draining, 233. 

Seebohm, on "lynches,"' 2; on 
village communities, 4. 

" Selions," 24. 

Seneschals, 6. 

Seneschaucie, 13, 16, 419. 

Separators, 389. 

Serfs, 22. 

Service of villeins, 22. 

Settled Lands Act, the (1882), 379. 

Settlement, Law of, see Poor Laws. 

Severn, the, 276. 

Sexton's Mead, 26. 

Sha, J., his Plaint and. Easie Demon- 
strations, etc., 427. 

Shaftesbvuy, industries at, 312. 

Shakespeare, horses in, 181, 182 ; his 
types of vagabonds, 76 ; an open- 
field tithe- owner, 68. 

Shalboum, Jethro Tull at, 170. 

Shalloon, 309. 

Shawe"s patent for manuring land 
(1636), 104. 

Sheep, 15 ; under George III., 57 ; 
in 1837, 354 ; in 1874, 373 ; in 
Bedfordshire, 241 ; in Huntingdon- 
shire, 238 ; in Lincolnsliire, 238 ; 
in Worcestershire, 229 ; BakewelFs 
experiments with, 186 ; lets his 
rams, 186 ; carriers of manure, 27 ; 
on commons, 27, 128, 150 ; dead- 
weight of, 98 ; ewes milked in 
Northumberland, 202 ; fanciful 
points in, 179 ; improvements in 
the eighteenth century, 177 seq. ; 
Markham on, 138 ; Mascall on, 
138 ; inethod of folding in Flanders, 
110; Mortimer on, 138; under 
open-field system, 95 ; shearings 
at Holkham, 220 seq. ; at Woburn, 
221 ; shearing-machines, 387; vari- 
eties of , 138, 139, 178, 372. 



Sheffield, 277 ; steel industry at, 310. 

Sheffield, Lord, establishes an Agri- 
cultural Society at Lewes, 209. 

ShepJierd, qualifications of, 16. 

Shepton Mallet, woollen industry at, 
311. 

Sherwood Forest, 153. 

Shipton-on-the-Stour, 277. 

Sliire horses, 355. 

Shirley, Thomas, translator of Coch- 
learia Curiosa, 429. 

Shirreff, Patrick, and pedigree corn, 
354. 

Slioddy as manure, 366. 

Shorthorn cattle, 180, 187, 354. 

Shorthorn Society, the, 373. 

Shots, 24. 

Shrewsbury, turnpikes on the Bangor 
road, 284 ; industries at, 310. 

Shrift districts, 336. 

Shropshire, Report on (Bishton), 
228 ; (Plymley), 294 ; industries 
in, 310. 

Silk, industry in Berkshire, 310; in 
Coventry, 310. 

Silk- worms, 112. 

Silverdale slieep (Lancashire), 178. 

Sinclair, Sir John, President of the 
Board of Agriculture, 196 ; his 
notes on dead- weight of stock in 
1795, 188; his ^Address to the 
Society for the Improvement of 
British Wool, 354 ; his State of the 
Country in December, 181(i. 320. 

Single tax, the, 399, 403, 417. 

Site values, 399. 

Skeat, Prof. W. W., on Fitzherbert, 
90, 420 ; on tramways, 351. 

Skelton, Jolin, his Ellinoiir Rumminq, 
98. 

Skye, crofters in (1750), 28. 

Slate clubs, 414. 

Slater, Dr. Gilbert, his English 
Peasantry and the Enclosure of 
Common Fields, 1()4. 

Sleaford, 153. 

Small, James, of Blackadder Mount, 
his ploughs, 202, 208. 

Small holdings (and see Small Land- 
owners), 396 ; and tenant-right, 
405 ; the Small Hoklings Act 
criticised, 415. 

Smith, Adam, and the Corn Laws, 
272 ; and the price of wheat (1453- 
1497), 448. 

Smitli, Cliarles, his Tracts on the Com 
Trade and Corn Laws, 266 ; esti- 
mate of population, 26(>. 

Smith, James, of Deanston, 363 ; liis 
Remarks on Thorough Draining and 
Deep Ploughing, 364, 



2 I 



498 



INDEX 



Smith, John, his England's Improve- 
ment Revived, 429 ; possibly the 
author of Profit and Pleasure 
United, 429. 

Smith, Sir Thomas, his De Republica 
Anqlorum, 73, 85. 

Smithfield Club, the, 188. 

Smithfield Market, 188, 194. 

Smithsham, 26, 30. 

Smut, in wheat, 109 ; in barley, 
386. 

Smyth, John, of Nibley, his Lives of 
the Berkeleys, 32, 45. 

Snaggreet, 109. 

Snailwell, 245. 

Sneyds, the seytlie of the, 32. 

Soap, soft, 386. 

Social gradations of the village in 
former times, 412 ; cannot be re- 
placed, 416. 

Socialistic legislation, 382. 

Societies, Bath and West of England, 
209 ; Encouragement of Arts, 
Manufactures and Commerce, 209, 
219 ; Farmers" Club, the, 209 ; 
Highland Society, the, 209 ; Im- 
provers in the Knowledge of Agri- 
culture, 173, 209 ; Smithfield Club, 
the, 209 ; Society for bettering the 
Condition and Increasing the Com- 
forts of the Poor (1796), 408; 
numerous agricultural societies in 
the provinces, 209 ; numerous live- 
stock societies of late years, 373, 
384. 

Soda, nitrate of, 366. 

Soil, character of in various districts, 
136 ; affects enclosure, 167 ; 
Davy's lecture on, 217 ; science 
appHed to, 385 ; virgin, 1. 

" Soiling," 110. 

Soke of Peterborough, the, 244. 

Solar, the, 5. 

Soldiers, disbanded, 75. 

Somer, John, 99. 

Somerset, Protector, 59, 

Somersetshire, Report on (Billinga- 
ley), 232, 248, 294 ; balloting in, 
26 ; fardels, 22 ; open-fields, 23 ; 
industries in, 311. 

Soot, 10, 95, 110, 366. 

Southampton (Icknield Street), 279. 

Southerne, Edmund, his Ordering of 
Bess, 106, 423. 

Southwell, out-door relief refused at, 
330. 

Specialisation, in live-stock, 354. 

" Specimen^" Jethro Tull's, 169. 

Speculation, in corn, 256, 273 ; in 
land, 57 ; under the Tudors, 58 ; 
in 1870,375. 



Speed, Adolphus, his Adam out of 
Eden, 111, 427. 

Speenhamland Act, the, 436. 

Spelman, Sir Henry, onlay rectors, 340. 

Spilsby, 153. 

Sprigge, Joshua, of Banburv, 124. 

Spurn Point, 153. 

Stafford, William (1.554-1612), 70. 

Staffordshire, Report on (Pitt), 227, 
294; industriesin, 310, 311 ; land- 
owners in, under Elizabeth, 85. 

Stage-coaches and stage-waggons, 
282. 

Stamford, sheep at, 239. 

" Standing " house, at Berkeley, 45. 

Standish, Arthur, 59 ; The Commons 
Complaint, 94, 424 ; on woodlands, 
106 ; his New Directions, etc., 424. 

Stanley, his Remedy, 434. 

Starch, 254, 264. 

Starkey's Dialogue (1536), 59, 

" Statesmen," in Westmoreland, 295. 

Statistics of Agriculture, a much felt 
want, 361. 

Statute, the, of Apprentices (1663), 
87 ; of Labourers (1349), 41, 51 ; 
of Merton, 38, 72 ; of Westminster, 
38, 72. 

Statute labour, on the roads, under 
the Tudors, 282 ; at beginning of 
the nineteenth century, 285, .350 ; 
abolished in Ireland, 286 ; in 
England, 288. 

Steam, the advent of, 352, 369 ; 
cultivators, etc., 369 ; diggers, 387. 

Steel springs on carriages, 283. 

Stephens, Henry, 361. 

Stephenson, George, 352. 

Stevenson, Matthew, his Twelve 
Moneths, 427. 

Stevenson, William, his Dorsetshire, 
233. 

Stillingfieet, Benjamin, his Observa- 
tions on Grasses, 219. 

Stilton, and Stilton Cheeses, 187 ; its 
toll-bar, 282. 

Stilt- walking in the Fens, 115. 

Stinted pastures, 36, 37, 158, 188. 

Stirling, Mrs. A. M. W., her Coke of 
Norfolk and his Friends, 217. 

Stitches, 24. 

Stock, breeding, 176,'?eg. ; for the 
butcher, 185 ; Thomas Coke and, 
219 ; dead-weight of in 1710 and 
1795, 188 ; estimate of, in England 
and Wales, in 1688, 455; in 1696, 
145; in 1837, 354 seg. ; in 1850, 
371; in 1866-1911, 466, 467; in- 
breeding of, 385 ; Mendelism, 385 ; 
pedigree stock in 1837, 354, 372 ; 
prices of in 1885 and 1890, 378. 



INDEX 



499 



Stock and Land System, the, 42, 49. 

Stocks, the, 19. 

Stogursey, open-fields at, 23. 

Stoke, the, 116. 

Stone, Thomas, his Bedfordshire, 241 ; 
his Huntingdonshire, 238, 244 ; his 
Lincolnshire, 238, 245, 246, 247 ; 
his Suggestions, etc., 224, 300, 303. 

Stores, 17. 

Stotts, 12. 

Stourbridge fair, 276. 

Strangehopes, Samuel, his Book of 
Knowledge, 428. 

»Stratford-on-Avon, 68. 

Stretham, common rights at, 27. 

Strikes, 411. 

Strips, 24. 

Stroud, broad-cloth industry at, 311. 

Stubbes, Philip, his Anatomy of 
Abuses, 62. 

Suez Canal, the, 375. 

Suffolk, Report on (Young), 293 ; 
Breviary of Suffolk, 192 ; cheese, 
193; clover in, 134 ; executions in, 
1814-15, 323; hops in, 92; in- 
dustries in, 309 ; Suffolk Duns, 
180, 193; Suffolk Punches, 193, 
355. 

Suffolk, the Countess of (George II.), 
173. 

" Suffolk Gentleman, A," his Letter to 
Sir T. C. Bunhury, Bart., 292. 

Sunbeams to tell the time, 357. 

Superphosphates, 366, 367. 

Surfleet, Richard, translator of 
U Agriculture et Maison Ru^tique, 
422. 

Surrender of holdings, voluntary, 53. 

Surrey, industries in, 309. 

" Surveyors and orderers,"' 281, 285, 
286. 

Sussex, industries in, 309. 

Sussex Herd-book Society, the, 373. 

Sutton, Sir Richard Weston's estates 
at, 107. 

S. W., stamp on loaves, 450. 

Swaffliam, illegitunate children on the 
parish at, 329. 

Swans, 17. 

Swedes, 208, 219. 

Swift, Dean, his letters to Boling- 
broke, 173. 

Swine, of the Middle Ages, 16 ; to be 
ringed on commons, 27 (and see 
Pigs). 

Swine-fever, 386. 

" Swing, Captain, " 325. 

Switzer, Stephen, on drain-pipes, 364. 

Tam worth, linen industry at, 310. 
Tarello, Camillo, 89. 



Tares, sown on turnip fallows, 191. 

Taunton, a port, 276 ; the Vale of, 
135 ; woollen industry at, 311. 

Taxation, the new, 401, 402, 417 ; 
local, at the pi-esent day, 404. 

Taylor, Silvanus, his Common Good, 
or the Improvement of Commons, etc., 
\2bseq., 426. 

Tea, in early nineteenth century, 348. 

Teasels, in Essex, 193, 312. 

Telford, Thomas, 278, 284, 286, 287 ; 
the Telford pavement, 287. 

Temple, Sir William, on marriages 
" into the city," 144. 

Tenancies-at-will, in Berks, Notts, 
and Derbyshire, 200. 

Tenant-farmers, rise of, 48 ; bank- 
ruptcies of, 322, 323 ; micertain 
position of, 404 ; better situated 
now than in 1888, 403, 404. 

Tenants (manorial), 20. 

Tenant-right, 404 seq. ; Act of, 1875, 
379, 405; beginnings of, 113, 132, 
201, 221, 325; market-gardeners 
and, 381 ; optional at first, 405 ; 
proposal to extend compensation, 
405. 

Tenement houses, under Elizabeth, 
87. 

" Tenths and fifteenths," 431. 

" Terramania," 292. 

Tetbury, Lord Berkeley at, 31. 

Tewkesbury, 277 ; stocking-frame 
industry at, 311 ; Vale of, 230. 

Theft, in Tudor times, 274. 

Theorist land-reformers, 394, 417. 

Thorney, fen-lands at, 245 ; des- 
cribed by William of Malmesbury, 
116 ; Walloon settlement at, 1 15. 

Thornhill, Cooper, of the Bell Inn at 
Stilton, 187. 

" Thorow " drainage in Essex, 193. 

" Three acres and a cow," in the 
sixteenth and seventeenth cen- 
turies, 123, 215. 

Threshing in 1837, 357 ; threshing- 
machines, 358 ; the only winter 
employment under the open-field 
systein, 300. 

Till, the, 319. 

Tinkards, 76. 

Tinker's Field, 26. 

Tiptree Hall, Mr. Mechi at, 372. 

Tithes, Acts of Parliament ; the 
Barren Lands Act, 343 ; Tithe 
Commutation Act of 1836, 325, 332, 
340, 343, 344, 345, 350 ; Tithe 
Rent-Charge Recovery Act of 1891, 
345 ; agreement as to, conditions 
of, 344 ; annual value of, in 1836, 
340 ; appropriators, 339, 340 ; 



500 



INDEX 



Barren Lands Act, the, 343 ; based 
upon townships. 334 ; clerical 
tithe-owners in 1!(12, 402 ; collec- 
tion of, 342 ; in 1793-1815, 457 seq.; 
Commissioners, 344 ; commuta- 
tion, by composition, 342 ; com- 
pulsory, 344 : by valuation, 342 ; 
voluntary, 344 ; conditions of 
agreement as to, 344 ; consecration 
secures, 337 ; corn-rents substi- 
tuted for, 342, 344 ; custom, in- 
fluence of, 338, 339 ; customary, 
333 ; Danish invasion and, 334 ; 
deductions from, 343 ; Edgar, 
King, makes them a legal liability, 
336 ; enclosure resisted by tithe- 
owners, 168 ; enquiry held by 
Connnissioners, 344 ; European 
coimtries, in, 333 ; excommunica- 
tion for non-payment of, 335 ; 
extinction of by allotments, 252, 
342 ; by enclosure, 252 ; free-will 
offerings, acted upon, 335 ; great 
or small, 333 ; grievance, the real, 
341; liistory of, 332 se^. ; im- 
propriators, 339, 340 ; incidence of, 
under old law, 332 ; on produce, 
the real grievance, 341 ; increase 
of before 1812, 321 ; kind, payment 
in, 341, 343 ; landlords and, 340, 
341 ; landowners made liable for, 
345, 379 ; legal liability, created by 
King Edgar, 336 ; confirmed by his 
successors, 337 ; local tithes 
granted to distant religious houses, 
338 ; machinery of tithe com- 
mutation of modem times, 344, 345; 
moduses, 342 ; monastic institu- 
tions and, 333 ^e^. ; moral duty, a, 
333 ; parochial endowments, 334, 
335, 337 ; payment of, to any 
ecclesiastical body, 338 ; predial, 
mixed or personal, 332 ; recovery 
of, 345 ; rectorial and vicarial, 339 ; 
redemption, experiment suggested 
instead of church disendowment, 
402, 403 ; Reformation does not 
affect, 340 ; tithe barns, 342 ; 
tithe rent charges, 340, 342, 344, 
345; in 1877, 376; tithe-owners 
resist enclosure, 168 ; townships, 
basis upon. 334 ; vicarial, 339. 

de Tocqueville, on Arthur Young's 
France, 196. 

Tomkins, Benjamin, his Herefords, 
354. 

Tooke, Thomas, his History of Prices, 
269, 273, 314 ; draws up the 
merchants' petition, 273, 

Tottenham, 237. 

Townley, Sir John, 63. 



Towns, migrations into, 63, 60 ; 
attractions of, for the agricultural 
labourer, 415. 

Townshend, Lord, 32, 90, 149, 169, 
172 ; his ureat success, 175, 176, 
177, 188, 194; "Turnip" Towns- 
hend, 174 ; his political career, 173. 

Townships, tithe organisation based 
upon, 334. 

Toynbee, Arnold, his Industrial 
Revolution, 144. 

Trade, Royal Commission on Depres- 
sion of (1886), :;78. 

Trade, Board of. Report on Agri- 
cultural Wages, 314. 

Trade Guilds, 3, 49, 214. 

Trading Companies, 79. 

Trams and tramways, 351 ; meaning 
of the word, 351. 

Transport of corn, 261, 270, 271. 

A Treatise of Wool and Cattle : in a 
Letter ivritten to a Friend, etc., 430. 

Trefoil, " or Bm-gundian gi'ass," 
commended by Googe, 100. 

Trent, the, 276, 278. 

de Tresaguet, Pierre, 286. 

Trigge, Francis, his Humble Petition 
of two Sisters, 63, 86, 424. 

Tring fair, 191. 

Trows, 276. 

Tryon, Thomas, a '" book-farmer,"' 
133 ; his Countryman's Companion, 
134, 430. 

Tuberculosis, 386. 

Tucker, Josiah, his Four Tracts, etc.. 
303. 

Tuke, John, his North Riding of York- 
shire, 226, 296. 

Tull, Jethro, his story, 169, 170 : 176, 
177, 188 ; qn^griiiviug_cloyerj 134 ; 
his crops, 172 ; his Drill, 170.^65'. ; 
hoeing, 172 ^ hj s Horse Houghing 
Husbandry, 169-^ plants sainfoin, 
170; his services to agriculture, 
^J?J, the Tnllian System, 172 seq. ; 
on turnips, 135, 149 ; followed by 
Townshend, 1 74 ; adopts Vineyard 
principles, 171. 

Turner, George, his Gloucestershire, 
230. 

Turner, George, his North Devona, 
354. 

Turner, A^'illiam, the herbalist, on 
turnips, 100 ; his Libellus dc Re 
Herbaria Novu^, 420. 

Turnips, 100 ; not possible on open- 
fields, 122 ; Adolphus Speed on, 
111; benefits of, 135; in the 
church-yard, 208 ; diseases of, 386 ; 
in the Eastern Counties, in 1837, 
348 ; field-cultivation of, 104, 135, 



INDEX 



501 



166, 202 ; Flemish cultivation of, 
107; in Hertfordshire, 191 Jetluo 
Tull and, 172; opposition to, 134, 
202 ; grown by the Earl of Rothes 
in 1716, 160 ; in Shakespeare, 102 ; 
in Suffoliv, 193 ; Towiishend and, 
174 ; turnip weed and turnip fly, 
386. 

Turnpike Acts, o"f 1728, 282 ; between 
1760 and 1774, 284 ; between 1785 
and 1800, 284 ; multiplication of, 
284, 287. 

Turnpike Trusts, 203, 282, 287, 350 ; 
difficulties of, 288 ; extinction of, 
288 ; the Home OfHce and, 288 ; 
the Rebecca Riots. 282. 

Tusser, Thomas, 9, 10, 14, 59, 105, 
107, 112, 123, 124, 139, 156, 347 ; 
on turnips, 100 ; his death, 107 ; 
his Five Hundred Points, etc., 66, 87, 
89, 91, 92, 93 se^., 421. 

Twemlow, F. R., The Twenilow.s, 71. 

" Two-penny,"" Bakewell's bull, 184. 

"Two-pounder,"" Bakewell's ram, 184. 

Tyndale, William, 62. 

Uley, out-door relief refused at, 330. 

Undeveloped land, duty on, 399, 416. 

Unearned increment, in the seven- 
teenth century, 71. 

Unions, see Poor Laws. 

" Upright man,"' the, 76. 

Utopia, 61, 63, 75. 

Utrecht, the Peace of, turnips before, 
135. 

Uxbridgo Road, the, in 1797, 190. 

Vagrants, 74, 76. 
"Valentine's Day, St., 9. 
Valuation, the, now in progress, 418. 
Vanbrugh, Sir John, his Journey to 

London, 283. 
Vancouver, Cliaiies, his Cambridge 

shire, 242, 244, 247 ; his Hampshire, 

237, 293. 
Vanderdelf, Cornelius, 115. 
Varro, 33, 99, 419. 
Vaughan, Rowland, on irrigation, 

106 ; l)is suggestion adopted by 

Sir R. Weston, 107 ; his Water 

Workes. 424. 
delaVega, G., 104. 
Vegetables, in Tudor times, 101, 102. 
Vermuyden, Sir Cornelius, attacked 

by Burr ell, 117; his Discourse 

touching the Draining of the Great 

Fennes, 116, 117, 425 ; the Bedford 

Level, 117. 
Veterinary science, 385. 
Via, the Roman, 279. 
Vicars, 340. 



Victoria, Queen, agriculture during 
the early years of her reign, 346 
seq. ; and the Royal Agricultural 
Society, 359. 

Villa, the Roman, 4. 

Village communities, 3 seq. 

Village farms, 6, 29, 38, 56, 71, 297 ; 
Arthur Young on, 199 ; dis- 
appearance of, 407. 

Villeins (and see Bondmen), 21, 22, 
23, 52, 53 ; abolition of, 47. 

Vineyards, 18, 112 ; Jethro Tull and, 
171. 

Virgates, 21, 22. 

Voelcker, 366. 

Voluntary pauperism, 329, 435. 

'" Vox populi vox Dei " (Ballad), 67. 

W. stamp on loaves, 450. 

Wadesmill, toll-bar at, 282. 

Wages, 40, 41, 313, 314; in the 
eighteenth centurj', 148, 262 ; in 
1812, 321; in 1813, 327; from 
1815 onward, 407 ; in various years 
between 1768 and 1910, 468 «eg. ; 
not entirely represented by weekly 
cash, 313, 407 ; Abstract of Returns 
prepared by order of the Select Com- 
tnittce on Labourers' Wages, 1825, 
470 ; Berkshire, scale of, 327 ; 
Board of Trade Report on (1900), 
314, 470; corn, payable in, 51; 
controlled by Justices of the Peace, 
54, 86, 87 ; in England (1768-1910), 
468 seq. ; in Essex, 314, 468; 
extra allowances, 313, 407, 468 ; 
minimum wages, under Elizabeth, 
87 ; under James L, 104 ; re- 
duction of, 328 ; supplemented 
from the rates, 327, 407 ; in 
Warwickshire, 314, 469 ; Returnaof 
the Average rate of Weekly Earnings 
of Agricultural Labourers, 1861, 
1869, 1870, 1871, 1873, 470; Report 
of the Royal Commission on Labour, 
1891-94, 470 ; Reports fro7n Assist- 
ant Com,missioners to the Royal 
Commission on Agriculture, 1882, 
470. 

Wakefield, clothing trade at, 277. 

Wales, \\'illiam, his Inquiry into the 
Present State of Population in 
England and Wales, 299. 

Wales, disendowment of the Church, 
in, 402, 403. 

Walker, D., his Hertfordshire, 191, 
238. 

Wallinby, Oliver, see William Ley- 
bourn. 

Wallingford, 170. 

W^alloon settlement at Thorney, 115. 



502 



INDEX 



Walls, 24. 

Walpole, Sir Robert, a farmer, 173. 

Walsingham, Sir Francis, fond of 
gardens, 101. 

Walter of Henley, on butter weights, 
14 ; on rot in sheep, 15 ; on size of 
the ploughlands, 21 ; on swine, 17 ; 
on thistles, 11 ; on winter-keep, 13 ; 
his work on Farming, 33, 90, 419. 

Walton-on-Thames, 120. 

Wandle, the, mills on, 309, 352. 

Wapping Marsh, drained by Cornelius 
Vanderdelf, 115. 

Ware, a port, 276. 

Warping, introduced fi'om Italy, 114. 

de la Warr, Countess, edits The 
English Huswife, 422. 

Warwick, worsted industry at, 310. 

Warwickshire, Report on (Wedge), 
236, 296, 314 ; (Miuray), 236 ; 
industries in, 310, 311 ; wages in, 
314. 

Washbournes, sheaf of the, 32. 

" Wastell," 449. 

Wastes (and see Commons and En- 
closure), 38, 72, 110 ; in eighteenth 
century, 152 ; near London, 154 ; 
tithes and, 343 ; on Hounslow 
Heath, 122 ; in the Northern 
Counties, 153 ; in Devonshire, 
Cornwall, and Wales, 154 ; in the 
West Riding, 226 ; near London, 
154. 

Wat Tyler, 46. 

Water-carriage, 275 scq. 

Watling Street, 279. 

Watney, Dr., his milking-herds, 389. 

Watson, Bishop, on Westmoreland, 
153. 

Watt, James, 181,205. 

Weather, the, great heat in 1757, 
262 ; the price of corn and, 265 ; 
winters of 1708-9, 1739-40, 1794-5, 
262 ; 1874 onward, 376 ; 1891-4, 
380. 

Weaver, the, 276. 

Webb, Jonas of Babrahani, his South- 
downs, 354. 

Webb, Sidney and Beatrice, on the 
Assize of Bread, 448. 

Webb, William, quoted in Kings 
Vale Royal, 83. 

Webster, Mr., of Canley, his cattle, 
187. 

Wedge, John, his Wanvickshire, 236, 
296. 

Wedge, Thomas, his Cheshire, 227. 

Weeds, and Weeding, 11, 94, 199, 
386. 

The Weekly Miscellany for the Im- 
provement of Husbandry, 364. 



Weights and measures, uniformity 
recommended, 208. 

Welcombe, enclosure at, in 1614, 67, 
68. 

Weld, 136. 

Welland, the, 116, 276. 

Wellesbourne, Agricultiu'al Labourers' 
Union founded at, 410. 

Wellingborough, lace industry at, 
310. 

Wellington (Somersetshire), woollen 
industry at, 311. 

Wells, export of corn from, in eigh- 
teenth century, 194 ; fair at, 31. 

Wells, Samuel, his History of the Bed- 
ford Level, 116. 

Welshpool, navigation at, 276 ; 
pastures at, 136. 

Welwyn, parish allowances stopped 
at, 330. 

Wendover, 234. 

Wentwork, Lord Rockingham at, 207. 

West of England Bank, failure of the, 
375. 

Westbuiy, common pastures at, 234. 

Western, Mr. Charles C, M.P., his 
Speech on 7 March, 1816, 319. 

Westmoreland, Report on (Pringle), 
295. 

Weston, Sir Richard, 90 ; advocate 
of tenant-right, 113; on turnips, 
134 ; canalizes the Wey, 107, 276 ; 
on Sir Hugh Plat, 100, 107, 108 ; 
his Discours of the Husbandrie used 
in Brabant and Flanders, 108, 426. 

Wey, the, canalization of, by Sir 
R. Weston, 107, 276 ; paper mills 
on, 309. 

Weymouth, the Black Death at, 40. 

Whalley, Maj.-Gen., 119. 

Wheat, prices of, from 1646-1911, 
440, 441. 

Whey, 14. 

Whig, 14. 

Whitclyve Park, 44. 

" Wliiteheads," 357. 

Whitstable, copperas works at, 309. 

" Whole place," 21. 

Wholesale trade in milk and corn, 
rise of, 312. 

" Wiches " (salt) of Cheshire, 110. 

Wike, Lord Berkeley at, 32. 

Wilbraham, Roger, of Delamere, 71. 

Wilburton, 225, 245. 

Wildmore Fen, 245, 246, 250. 

William of Malmesbury, his de- 
scription of Thomey, 116. 

William the Conqueror, and tithes, 
337. 

Willis, Thomas, his De Fermentatione, 
131. 



INDEX 



503 



Wiltshire, Report on (Davis), 233, 
248, 294, 300. 

Winchester measures, 209. 

Winchcomb fair, 31. 

Winchcomb, John (Jack of Newbury), 
80. 

Windsor, George III.'s merino flock 
at, 207 ; royal farm at, 3fi0. 

Winstanley, Jerrard, 120 seq. ; his 
Letter to the Lord Fairfax, etc., 120, 
426. 

Winter-keep, 65, 95, 96, 99 ; turnips 
as, 134 ; effect of scarcity of, 188. 

Wire for fencing, 387. 

Wisbeach, St. Mary, 245 ; boats 
discovered at, in 1635, 116. 

Wiseton, 208. 

Wissey, the, 116. 

Witenagemot at Andover, in 970, 
336. 

Witham, the, 276. 

Witney, blanket industry at, 310. 

Wiveliscombe, woollen industry at, 
311. 

Woad, 108, 136, 312. 

Wobum, 207 ; fruit farm, 383 ; 
sheep-shearings, 221 ; the Wobiu-n 
Wash, 386; Bordeaux mixture, 386. 

Wokingham, see Oakingham. 

Wolsey, Cardinal, 60. 

Wolves, extinct in reign of Charles 
II., 152 

Women and children, employment of 
in the fields, 408-411. 

Wontnersham, 26. 

Woodchester, Lord Ducie at, 172. 

Woods, destruction of, for fuel, 110; 
enclosure of, 165 ; forestry on 
commercial principles, 383. 

Woodstock, glove industry at, 310. 

Wool, biu-ial in, in seventeenth 
century, 142 ; decay of wool in- 
dustry, 311 ; English wool, 15, 56, 
59, 79 seq., 98, 99, 177 seq. ; export 
and iinport of, 189 ; exportation 
prohibited, 142 ; import duty 
removed, 189 ; manufacture by 
foreigners, 81 ; Markham on, 138, 
139 ; from open-fields, 95 ; price 
of, 142; in 1850, 371 ; in 1851 
and 1864, 372 ; wool under the 
Tudors, 56, 59, 79 seq. ; in eigh- 
teenth century, 177 seq. 

Wootton-under-Edge, industries at, 
311. 

Worcester, glove industry at, 310. 

Worcester Priory, Registry of, 24. 

Worcestershire, Report on (Pomeroy), 
229 ; clover in, 134 ; executions 
in 1814-15, 323; industries in, 
311. 



Worgan, G. B., his Cornwall, 311. 
Workhouse, the, see Poor Laws. 
Worlidge, John, his Systema Agri- 

culturae, 91, 130, 134, 428 ; his 

other works, 428 ; his corn-drill, 

131, 171 ; on turnips, 134, 135. 
Wotton, Lord Berkeley at, 32. 
Wren-Hoskyns, Chandos, 359. 
Wright, Thomas, his Monopoly of 

Small Farms a great cause of the 

present Scarcity, 298. 
Writs and executions in 1814-15, in 

Norfolk, 323 ; in Suffolk, 323 ; in 

Worcestershire, 323. 
Wychwood Forest, 235. 
Wymondham (Leicestershire), 187 ; 

(Norfolk), 240. 
Wynterton, 51. 

Yarcombe, 2. 

Yarland, 21, 22. 

Yarmouth, exports of com from, in 
eighteenth century, 194. 

Yarnton, balloting at, 26. 

Yarranton, Andrew, suggests a Land 
Registry, 131 ; grows clover, 134 ; 
his canal proposals, 277 ; his 
Great Improvement of Lands by 
Clover, etc., 428 ; his England's 
Improvement by Sea and Land, 277, 
428. 

Yeomen, under Elizabeth, 83, 85 ; 
extinction of, attributed to en- 
closure, 291, 292 ; meaning of the 
word, 296, 297. 

York, a port, 276. 

Yorkshire. East Riding, Report on 
(Leatham), 224, 239 ; North Rid- 
ing, Report on (Tuke), 226, 296 ; 
West Riding, Report on (Brown), 
226, 251, 295. 

Youatt, William, 360. 

Young, Arthur, 3, 149, 382; his 
story, 195 seq. ; adopted child of 
France, 206 ; at Dishley, 184 
Secretary to the Board of Agri 
culture, 196 ; his blindness, 197 
crusade against bad farming, 206 
his daughter, 197 ; his death, 197 
his estimate of the cultivation of 
wheat in 1811, 266 ; his failure as 
a farmer, 112; married life, 197; 
on cow-dung as fuel, 198 ; on 
enclosure, 302, 304, 305; on ex- 
travagance of gentry, 347 ; on 
Jethro Tull's house, 170 ; on the 
open-field system, 199, 215; on 
roads, 203, 204 ; in the eighteenth 
century, 284 ; in Ireland, 286 ; on 
rents, 213, 214 ; on wages, 213, 
214 ; on Sir R. Weston, 107 ; on 



504 



INDEX 



the winter of 1785, 268 ; liis Annals 
of Agriculture, V. Agriculture, Annak 
of; Essex, 192, 197, 293; Enquiry 
into the rise of Prices in Europe 
during the last tiuenty-five years, 314 ; 
Example of France a Warning to 
Great Britain, 196 ; Farmer's tour 
through the East of England, 184, 
195 ;' France, in 1787-90, 196, 304 ; 
Hertfordshire, 191, 197, 238, 292, 
296 ; Inquiry into the Propriety of 
applying Wastes to the better main- 
tenance and support of the Poor, 215, 
216, 240, 305, 307 ; Ireland, 196, 
280 ; Lertn7-e before the Board of 



Agriculture in 1809, 251 ; Lincoln- 
shire, 197, 223, 239, 246, 304 ; 
Norfolk, 197, 293 ; Observations on 
the Present State of Waste Lands in 
Great Britain, 153, 347 ; Oxford- 
shire, 197, 222, 235, 306 ; Political 
Arithmetic, 302 ; Progressive Value 
of Money, 254 ; Question of Scarcity 
plainly stated, 305; Suffolk, 197, 
293; 'Tours, 154, 195, 313, 470; 
Three Famous Farmers, 179, 185; 
Universal Museum, 195. 

Zealand, mares from, 183 ; Vermuy- 
den a native of, 119. 



GLASGOW: PRINTED AT THE trNIVERSITY PRESS BV ROPERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD. 



S Ernie, Rowland Edmund 

4.55 Prothero, Baron 

E7 English farming. 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



