
HEALTH- 

THOUGH 

RATI&NAL 




1th through 




Southern Branch 
of the 

University of California 



Los Angeles 



Form L I 



775 

C77 



This book is DUE on the last date stamped below 



APR 1 4 1925 



s 



MAR 13 1929 



?92 

1925* 




MAR 

Form L-9-2m-12,'23 



14 



L/O 



HEALTH THROUGH 
RATIONAL LIVING 



By 
ISAAC T. COOK 



SAINT LOUIS 

MCMXIII 



COPYRIGHT, 1913. 
ISAAC T. COOK. 




PREFACE 

Disease and early death are accepted as inevitable ; 
every year the Grim Reaper gathers prematurely 
many people whom the world can ill afford to lose. 
This is a waste of life. It takes years of experience 
before an individual is capable of giving the world 
his best, and it is poor economy to lose our best men 
and women when they should be in their prime. 

Most suffering is unnecessary. There is a cause 
for everything. Disease and early death are no ex- 
ceptions; disease is not an accident; it is not due to 
the dictates of Providence. People become ill be- 
cause they outrage the laws of nature, and earn their 
diseases. 

Most people try to obtain health vicariously. This 
is a mistake, for everything that is worth while must 
be paid for in effort, and health is no exception. The 
law of compensation is always at work. Dependable 
health cannot be obtained by taking drugs. The 
tendency among the best physicians and surgeons, 
among whom I have many friends and acquaintances, 
is to rely less and less on drugs. Nature is the healer. 
The province of the physician is to interpret nature 

Hi 



PREFACE 

and point the way to health; in other words, to be 
a teacher. The physician can be of great assistance 
in hastening a cure by guiding the patient to care for 
himself so that nature can exert her healing powers 
unhindered. 

We have health when we deserve it, and we de- 
serve it when we bring our lives into harmony with 
nature. The average man pays no attention to this 
subject. He lives in the most convenient manner, 
going in the line of least resistance. When a man 
builds a home, he prides himself on using only first- 
class material; when he runs a delicate engine, he 
uses the best lubricant and fuel; but he selects build- 
ing material, fuel, and lubricant for his own body 
in a haphazard way. 

Every man should take pride in doing good work, 
but it is impossible to do quality work when dis- 
turbed by aches and pains. They distract the mind. 
Disease renders the sufferer inefficient, reduces his 
working capacity, and makes his output inferior in 
quality. A common-sense knowledge of proper liv- 
ing is the key that unlocks the casket of health and 
comfort. 

The average man does not know one day whether 
or not he will be able to attend to his tasks the next 
day, at least efficiently or with pleasure and comfort, 

iv 



PREFACE 

for on the morrow he may be ill. This uncertainty 
is unnecessary. The right knowledge is health insur- 
ance, provided it is lived. We are benefited, not by 
what we know, but by what we put into practice. 

I have lived both the old haphazard way, not 
knowing what real health is, and the new way, having 
health at my command. The peace of mind that 
accompanies health knowledge is priceless. 

I do not consider myself an expert on health. That 
is not my line of work, but I am very much interested 
and believe that others will be interested in the sub- 
ject of health when they view it in the right light. 
Therefore, I have given considerable study to the re- 
quirements of the body. I have shown this booklet, 
in manuscript form, to a number of people and it 
has influenced some of them to seek fundamental 
facts of life, and that is why I am having it pub- 
lished. I am a business man with no leisure on my 
hands, but if these pages should influence a few to 
live more rational lives, I shall feel that it has been 
worth while. 

Most of the thoughts expressed in the following 
pages have been inspired by reading A STUFFED 
CLUB, and by taking special advice from the editor 
of that periodical, Dr. J. H. Tilden, of Denver, Col- 
orado, who has a most comprehensive grasp of the 



PREFACE 

subject of health through rational living. Some 
parts of this booklet are verbatim reproductions of 
passages from the pages of A STUFFED CLUB, some 
from the instructions I have received from Dr. Til- 
den, and other parts are based on facts I have 
learned from him, as I understand them, modified 
by my observations and experiences. My under- 
standing may not always be correct, but it has given 
me a clearer and more pliable mind in a better body. 

I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to R. L. 
Alsaker, who edited the manuscript of this booklet, 
taking my ideas in the rough and placing them in 
orderly sequence, also suggesting changes and addi- 
tions. 

I have not attempted to use scientific or technical 
language, my aim being to write so that it can be 
understood by anyone who may chance to read these 
lines. The repetitions found in these pages are pur- 
posely inserted. 

This booklet was written to crystallize my ideas, 
and to serve as a reminder. As is usually the case, 
I shall probably be benefited more than anyone else, 
but if others obtain helpful ideas from perusing 
these pages, it will add to my pleasure and afford me 
ample compensation. 

If people are ill they should obtain expert advice. 

vi 



PREFACE 

Advice which will bring health, if followed, is price- 
less. It is cheap no matter what it costs. 

I wish those with whom I associate to be com- 
fortable and efficient; it would please me more than 
anything else to have my children avoid the mistakes 
that have handicapped me; applied health knowl- 
edge will bring about these desirable ends. 

I. T. C. 



vn 



Know then thyself, presume not God to scan; 
The proper study of mankind is man. 

Alexander Pope. 

Against disease known, the strongest fence 
Is the defensive virtue, abstinence. 

Benjamin Franklin. 



Vlli 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CHAPTER ONE. 

A Few Chemical Facts 



CHAPTER TWO. 

Synopsis of Daily Routine 6 

CHAPTER THREE. 

Exercise 10 

CHAPTER FOUR. 

Care of the Skin 14 

CHAPTER FIVE. 

Dr. Tilden's Four Essential Rules 18 

CHAPTER SIX. 

Food Classification, Combination and Cooking 27 

CHAPTER SEVEN. 

General Plan for Daily Eating 38 

CHAPTER EIGHT. 

The Care of Children 48 

CHAPTER NINE. 

Constipation 56 

CHAPTER TEN. 

Gas in the Digestive Tract 63 

CHAPTER ELEVEN. 

Introspection 64 

CHAPTER TWELVE. 

Disease 67 

CHAPTER THIRTEEN. 

Health Hints 74 

ix 



CHAPTER ONE 

A FEW CHEMICAL FACTS 

2. dV &> 3 

It is not necessary to know the chemical composi- 
tion of the foods we eat, nor is it necessary to know 
in detail the chemical make-up of our bodies. It is, 
however, well to know a few general principles. If 
we select a balanced dietary, our bodies will utilize 
the needed elements. Digestion and assimilation 
will take place as readily even if the diner does not 
know that he needs potassium salts for his muscles, 
and that he can obtain a supply from cucumbers, 
meat, potatoes, and tomatoes ; that calcium is a con- 
stituent both of his bones and of cabbages, celery, 
asparagus, and plums; that phosphorus is present in 
the nervous system, and is also found in fish, meat, 
fruits, and vegetables. 

The chemical composition of food varies with the 
soil upon which it is grown, atmospheric conditions, 
etc. Potatoes grown in one soil may have a greater 
percentage of potash than those raised but a mile 
away. Spinach is rich in iron, but the amount of iron 
is not constant. 

These few thoughts on physiological chemistry 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

are merely pointers. Those who wish to delve 
deeply can easily find great works on the subject. 

The human body, according to various authori- 
ties, is made up of about sixteen or seventeen ele- 
ments. The following are the most abundant, in 
the order named: Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitro- 
gen, calcium, phosphorus, sulphur, sodium, chlorine, 
fluorine, potassium, and iron. Other elements are 
found in traces. 

These elements do not usually appear in the body 
as elements, but are constituents of complex com- 
pounds. In its elementary state oxygen is an invis- 
ible gas, which supports combustion, but in the body 
it appears principally in combination with hydrogen, 
as water. Nitrogen, also a gas, combines with a 
number of elements to form proteid, or albuminous, 
substances. Carbon combines with other elements 
to form fats. Iron is not found in the body as a 
metal, but appears in the red blood corpuscles in a 
complex compound called hemoglobin. Likewise, 
soda, potash, and chlorine form salts such as sodium 
chloride (common salt) and potassium chloride. 

The salts of soda, potash, sulphur, iron, etc., are 
abundantly present in various fresh fruits and veg- 
etables. Food charts, giving analyses and equiva- 
lents in calories are very good, but so far as health 



A FEW CHEMICAL FACTS 

is concerned they are of value only to men with prac- 
tical experience in prescribing foods, both for the 
well and for the sick. 

Roughly, the foods can be divided into proteid 
(albuminous or nitrogenous) and carbonaceous. 
The various salts, touched upon above, may be 
called foods, for they are necessary to bodily well- 
being. Much disease is due to the fact that many 
people subsist almost exclusively on staple foods, 
neglecting to eat fresh fruits and vegetables. 

Proteid, albuminous, or nitrogenous foods. 
These are the building foods, necessary for the 
growth and repair of the muscles. Albumin also en- 
ters largely into the make-up of the body's lubricants, 
such as synovial fluid and mucus. The principal 
sources of proteids are meat, fish, eggs, nuts, milk, 
cheese, ripe peas, and ripe beans. Proteid in 
smaller amounts is found in fruits and vegetables. 
The proteid foods are digested in the stomach and 
in the small intestine. 

Carbonaceous foods. The sugars, starches, and 
fats belong in this class. They are very much alike 
in chemical composition, all of them containing car- 
bon, hydrogen, and oxygen. They are fuel foods. 
They are burned in the body, producing carbon di- 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

oxide, heat, and water. They also furnish the ele- 
ments for fat production. People who are overweight 
consume too much of these foods. 

Sugars are found principally in fruits and vege- 
tables. Americans, as a rule, eat too much refined 
sugar. 

Starch is also found in fruits and vegetables. The 
principal supply is obtained from grains. All the 
cereals, such as rice, wheat, barley, oats, and rye are 
rich in starch; the same is true of Irish and sweet 
potatoes, matured beans and peas, Hubbard squash, 
sago, tapioca, and bananas. 

Starch must be turned into sugar before it can be 
used by the body. The saliva contains a ferment 
(ptyalin) that serves this purpose. If starches are 
not properly masticated and insalivated they are li- 
able to ferment in the digestive tract. They are not 
digested in the stomach, but the digestion, which be- 
gins in the mouth, is completed in the small intestine. 

Fats are derived principally from such foods as 
butter, oils, and fat meats. Pure olive oil is a good 
food, but it is no easier to digest than butter. Fats 
are digested in the small intestine. 

Water is the great solvent; the bulk of our bodies 
is made up of this compound. 

Digestion means the breaking up of the foods we 



A FEW CHEMICAL FACTS 

cat. We do not know whether the proteid part of 
a piece of meat will help to build muscle, tendon, or 
make lubricant for the joints. The body is a living 
laboratory, in which the foods are broken up into 
simple forms (analysis), and the needed elements 
are selected by the cells in building complex com- 
pounds again (synthesis). 

Such elements as iodine, mercury, arsenic, and 
lead have not been placed in our bodily structure by 
nature ; when given in the form of drugs to cure dis- 
ease they are harmful. Nature will keep us well if 
we allow her to do so. If we could eat, digest, and 
assimilate minerals and metals, such as physicians 
often prescribe, what would be the need of tilling the 
soil, fishing, and raising cattle? We could then con- 
sume the rocks. All the elements necessary are 
abundantly present in our foods, and drugs are su- 
perfluous, as well as injurious. 



CHAPTER TWO 
SYNOPSIS OF DAILY ROUTINE 

A part of the price we are compelled to pay for 
being civilized is to give our bodies intelligent care. 
Otherwise there is a lack of dependable health, with- 
out which there can be no high degree of efficiency. 
With this idea in view I have prepared the follow- 
ing pages, most of which are inspired by Dr. Til- 
den's teachings. 

A large part of our time is spent in following 
some kind of routine. To regain or retain health 
it is necessary to practice a certain amount of rou- 
tine. In this chapter I give a brief synopsis, which 
is explained in detail in succeeding chapters. 

The first thing after rising in the morning take 
exercise, a quick bath, and a thorough rub-down. 
While going through this routine, or immediately 
preceding, drink slowly a pint or more of water. 
Rise early enough to avoid hurry. 

Breakfast, as well as all other meals, should be 
eaten deliberately. Do not think of business or so- 
cial matters during the meal. 

The time spent in going to and returning from 
business should be used in reflection upon current 

6 



SYNOPSIS OF DAILY ROUTINE 

events, in training the mind to dominate the will, and 
in concentrating the mind on some given subject. 

If it is not too far, walk to and from the place of 
business. Walk briskly for at least five minutes be- 
fore reaching the office. Walk with the body erect, 
chest well extended. 

The hours for work will necessarily vary in indi- 
vidual cases, depending on one's circumstances. 
Whatever the business hours are, they should be 
strictly observed. The time to do business and plan 
business is during business hours, and those who take 
their business cares to bed soon come to grief. 

At times it may be necessary to go through extra 
exertion, but a lull generally follows, when both em- 
ployer and employees can have a little rest. There 
are many reasons for treating one's employees well, 
two of which are that it is right and it pays. 

The place of business should be well ventilated, 
with air from the outside constantly changing, so 
that the temperature in the winter does not exceed 
68 to 70 degrees Fahrenheit. People do their best 
work in pleasant and sanitary surroundings. 

Those who have to be on their feet should stand 
and walk erect. When seated, sit with body erect, 
feet flat on the floor, and do not cross the legs or 
lounge. This does not mean to be rigid or under ten- 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

sion, but to assume an erect and comfortable posi- 
tion. 

It is well to spend as much time as one's occupa- 
tion will permit in the open air. 

Anger, worry, jealousy, and hatred steal one's 
faculties away. They cause incompetency and ill- 
health. Self-control, poise, and even temper are 
winning qualities. Worry and anger never did any 
good in a business way or otherwise, and never will. 
People who have the worry habit or lose their tem- 
per easily can cultivate poise. Self-control is neces- 
sary for retaining health, without which true suc- 
cess will not be attained. 

It is surprising how smoothly everything goes and 
how seldom things go wrong for those who are pos- 
sessed of physical and mental poise. 

The foundation of all business, and other affairs 
of life, must be truthfulness, honesty, and integrity. 
Upon such a foundation a personality will evolve 
which will command the respect and confidence of 
acquaintances and business associates. 

If failure should be the result of one's endeavors, 
it is well to remember that failures are valuable, for 
if studied and properly interpreted, they point the 
way to success. It is useless to brood over them; 
after the disappointment is over, start anew. 

8. 



SYNOPSIS OF DAILY ROUTINE 

Men should not allow their business to drive or 
enslave them. They should not assume burdens they 
are unable to bear. A fortune gained at the ex- 
pense of ruined health is not worth the price. We 
are not indispensable; the world will rotate and re- 
volve after we have returned to dust. 

A successful business deal is one in which all con- 
cerned are benefited. 

The lunch should be light and eaten at leisure. If 
hurried or worried, omit this meal. 

Before the evening meal, which should be the 
principal meal of the day, get thoroughly relaxed. 
Relaxation will come about quickly if a comfortable 
physical attitude is assumed, and the mind is al- 
lowed to rest. 

Food does not digest properly when the individ- 
ual is under physical or mental tension. 

The evening should be spent with one's family in 
discussing topics of general interest, reading, or cul- 
tivating the mind in other ways. Sometimes go to 
places of amusement, the club, take a ride, or enjoy 
other social pleasures. Set aside a regular time to 
go to bed and adhere to it, except on special oc- 
casions. 

Before retiring it is well to spend a few minutes in 
the open air in walking or taking light exercise, 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

breathing deeply. Then take some vigorous exer- 
cise and a rub-down, and retire. If no bath was 
taken in the morning, take one at night. 

Sleep in a thoroughly ventilated bedroom all the 
year. The hours needed for sleep depend on the in- 
dividual. A month-old baby should sleep over 
twenty hours a day; many old people require only 
four or five hours' sleep; the average adult needs 
about seven or eight hours' sleep. 






10 



CHAPTER THREE 

EXERCISE 

The first thing on rising in the morning, also be- 
fore retiring at night, exercise in a well ventilated 
room. It does not matter what kind of exercise is 
taken. The following are all good forms of exer- 
cise: Tossing a ball, jumping rope, going through 
the old-fashioned calisthenics, using the various ex- 
ercisers found on the market, dancing the buck-and- 
wing, using medium-weight dumbbells or Indian 
clubs. Playing handball, tennis, or baseball are also 
excellent exercises. 

People leading a sedentary life and those having a 
delicate constitution should avoid violent exercises, 
but they should exercise vigorously, continuing with 
each separate exercise until a moderate degree of 
fatigue is experienced before starting a new one. 
Exercises should be selected that will bring into 
play all the muscles of the body, especially those not 
used in following one's daily vocation. The exer- 
cises should be vigorous enough to cause the blood 
to circulate freely in the extremities. Office workers 
especially need exercises for the arms and chest. 

1 1 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

No fixed rule for the duration of exercise can be 
given. Those who have not been in the habit of ex- 
ercising will at first become sore or lame. By taking 
only four or five minutes' exercise at a time at first, 
and adding a minute each day, the lameness is often 
avoided. The time should be increased until at 
least fifteen minutes, morning and evening, are de- 
voted to exercise. The less clothing worn during the 
time exercise is taken the better, for it is very bene- 
ficial to expose the skin to the fresh air. 

Exercise should not be looked upon as a hardship. 
It is necessary for our well-being. Those who neg- 
lect to take sufficient exercise suffer from cold hands 
and feet; they chill easily and are prone to catch 
cold. Cold hands and feet are signs of old age, even 
if they occur in young people. 

To vary the manner of taking exercise, it is well 
to take a brisk walk in the park or in some pleasant 
neighborhood where the air is pure. Walk briskly, 
head erect and chest well extended, breathing deeply. 

A good exercise is to lie flat on the back and go 
through the motions of riding a bicycle. 

I have personally found the "knee-and-shoulder 
exercise" to be a very good one: Lie on the floor, 
flat upon the back; draw the knees up, then place the 
palms of the hands under the body, just below the 

12 



EXERCISE 

small of the back; slowly raise the body until it is 
in a manner supported by the palms of the hands, 
with the elbows on the floor. Then gradually work 
the body up to a vertical position with the feet high 
in the air and rest as nearly as possible on the back 
of the neck and on the shoulders; then draw the 
knees downward so that they will strike the chest 
or shoulders. Repeat, first with both knees, then 
alternately right and left. 

This exercise tones up the contents of the abdom- 
inal cavity and is benficial in cases of constipation 
or piles. It can be taken both morning and evening. 

It is well to walk during the day when opportunity 
presents, rather than resort to the constant use of 
automobiles, street cars, and other modes of con- 
veyance. 



CHAPTER FOUR 

CARE OF THE SKIN 

Once upon a time the skin protected us. Now we 
protect the skin. The skin is not only a protector of 
the body, but it is also an excretory organ. We have 
clothed our bodies so much that the skin function is 
greatly impaired, throwing too much work on the 
kidneys and the lungs, and allowing some of the de- 
bris to remain in the body. He who wishes ideal 
health must take care of the surface of his body. 

Ordinarily one cleansing hot bath a week is suffi- 
cient. The proper time to take it is just before re- 
tiring, which will be two or three hours after the 
evening meal. This is the only time that it is neces- 
sary to use soap on the body, except on the face, 
hands, and feet. 

Cold baths are good for those with splendid reac- 
tion, but are not proper for those who chill easily 
and have difficulty in reacting. Dr. Tilden's direc- 
tions for the cold bath are as follows : 

"Draw four or five inches of cold water into the 
bathtub and begin by washing the face and hands 
while still standing outside of the tub. Carry the 

14 



CARE OF THE SKIN 

water up over one arm and rub with the open hand, 
and repeat until the arm is used to the cold; treat 
the other arm the same way; step into the tub and 
treat each leg the same way; squat in the water and 
give the genitals a thorough bath ; drop on the knees 
and carry the water over your body; step out of the 
tub and follow with a thorough dry rubbing with a 
towel. At night, before going to bed, give yourself 
a five minutes' dry towel rubbing. When the cold 
bath is followed by cold hands and feet, it should be 
preceded by a quick hot bath for the hands, face, and 
feet. Draw a little hot water and wash face, neck, 
and hands; step into the tub and allow the feet to 
toast for a few minutes; then take the cold bath as 
directed." 

Those who are rugged and react promptly may 
immerse their bodies in the cold water for a short 
time, instead of taking the cold water sponge. If the 
body is sponged off with cold water before being im- 
mersed there is no perceptible shock. 

A bath such as described above should be taken 
daily. It will not require more than four or five 
minutes. Cold plunge and shower baths are too 
shocking for many people. There is no rule that fits 
everyone. Each individual should learn what is 
best for him, and act accordingly. 

15 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

In winter take the bath first, friction next, and 
morning exercise afterwards. This aids in bring- 
ing about reaction from the bath and establishing a 
good circulation. 

During the summer exercise may be taken before 
the bath. 

It is very important to take a dry rub morning and 
evening, for this keeps the skin active. The rub- 
bing should be done vigorously, from head to foot. 
Use the open hand, a flesh brush, or a coarse towel. 
A dry rub should always follow the bath. 

While exercising in the morning and taking the 
dry rub, or immediately after rising, drink slowly 
a pint or more of water, either warm or cold, but 
do not use ice water. It is not necessary to drink 
the warm water as slowly as the cold water. Some 
people complain that water is unpleasant to the 
taste, which is an indication that they should go with- 
out breakfast. 

Sleep in a thoroughly ventilated bedroom at all 
seasons. In winter there must be at least one full 
sash opening for each individual occupying the 
room. During warm weather, open all the win- 
dows in the bedroom, but do not sleep in a draft. In 
winter warm covers that are light in weight should 
be used. An excessive amount of bed clothing is in- 

16 



CARE OF THE SKIN 

jurious, for it tends to retard circulation. Keep the 
feet warm at all times. The lower part of the body 
needs more covering than the chest. If the feet have 
a tendency to be cold at night use artificial heat in 
the foot of the bed. 

Never wear woolens next to the skin. The proper 
underwear is either linen or cotton. The garments 
should not be heavy, for people spend most of the 
time during the winter in rooms where the tempera- 
ture is that of summer. Wear light underwear sum- 
mer and winter, and in winter time use enough 
wraps while outdoors to keep warm. Two or three 
overcoats, varying in weight, to be worn according 
to the out-door temperature, will solve the problem 
of keeping warm. 



CHAPTER FIVE 
DR. TILDEN'S FOUR ESSENTIAL RULES 

"Rule i : NEVER EAT WHEN You ARE FEELING 
BADLY. 

"You may not understand what I mean by feeling 
badly. If you get up in the morning and have not 
rested well, but feel heavy, tired, dull, cranky, or ner- 
vous, go through with your morning routine of ex- 
ercises, etc., but do not eat breakfast. No matter in 
what way you feel badly, you are not to eat. Take 
a glass of water every hour or two during the fore- 
noon. 

"If you pass through the entire forenoon feeling 
all right, you may have your lunch. You must feel 
well from one meal time to the other, or miss your 
meal even if it makes you weak to go without food. 
The more of this discomfort you have the greater is 
the evidence that you need to fast. 

"When you cannot miss a meal without feeling 
inconvenience you have chronic irritation of the 
stomach, and the more you go without food the 
sooner you will be well. 

18 



DR. TILDEN'S FOUR ESSENTIAL RULES 

"Rule 2 : NEVER EAT WHEN You Do NOT HAVE 
A KEEN RELISH FOR FOOD. 

"When meal time comes, if it is a matter of in- 
difference whether you eat or not, do not eat. 

"Rule 3 : ALWAYS AVOID OVEREATING. 

"Rule 4: THOROUGHLY MASTICATE AND INSAL- 
IVATE YOUR FOOD. 

"If you masticate your food thoroughly, you are 
not very liable to overeat." 

The above rules I take from Dr. Tilden's instruc- 
tions. If these rules were properly interpreted and 
conscientiously followed, good health would be the 
rule instead of the exception. These rules are not 
arbitrary, but are an interpretation of nature's laws 
applied to man's food intake. 

The lower animals refrain from eating when 
they are sick. Man would do likewise if it were not 
for false teachings and perverted senses. When a 
person becomes ill, the attending medical man usu- 
ally urges him to eat to keep up his strength. The 
truth is that the more he eats under the circum- 
stances, the weaker he grows, and the more desper- 
ate becomes his illness. The food does not nourish 
him, but feeds his disease. People should not eat 

19 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

when they feel badly, even if it is necessary to go 
without food for three or four days. When no food 
is taken it is well to drink plenty of water. 

The water may be either warm or cold, but not 
ice-cold. When on a fast it is proper to drink all 
the water desired. If there is no desire for water 
it is well to drink at least a glassful every two hours. 
The water washes the impurities out of the system. 
However, in severe acute inflammations of the 
stomach, nothing is to be given by the mouth, not 
even water. 

Sickness is nature's sign that we have been con- 
ducting ourselves so improperly that the body has 
rebelled. It means that the body demands a rest 
until readjustment can take place, rest from food 
especially. When a person becomes ill he loses his 
desire for food, which is nature's way of saying, "Do 
not eat." In illness, the digestive function goes on 
a strike, and if food is partaken of it poisons the 
body. If people would stop eating as soon as they 
begin to feel badly, it would prevent many long 
spells of sickness, chronic diseases would be rare, 
and many a life would be saved. 

When there is no desire for food it means that the 
body has been oversupplied with nourishment. No 
food should be taken until normal hunger returns, 

20 



DR. TILDEN S FOUR ESSENTIAL RULES 

even if it is necessary to fast three or four days. The 
digestive organs never work well unless there is a 
desire for food and what is eaten is keenly relished 
a desire for plain food, not for food that must be 
made appetizing by means of sauces, relishes, and 
spices. Do not eat simply because it is meal time. 

Most people are guilty of bolting their food. 
Starchy foods and nuts must be very thoroughly mas- 
ticated. If the starches are not finely subdivided in 
the mouth and thoroughly mixed with saliva, sooner 
or later they will ferment in the stomach or bowels. 
In time the result will be chronic indigestion, after 
which the individual will rarely know what it is to 
be comfortable an entire day. The resulting dis- 
eases may be of the liver, the lungs, the heart, the 
arteries; in fact, of any part of the body. 

Improper eating is not the only cause of disease, 
but we sin more and oftener at the table than in any 
other way; digestive troubles are the source of more 
disease than any other cause. Most people over- 
eat; nearly all make incompatible combinations of 
food, and eat when they should not eat; coaxing 
one's desire for food by means of gravies, sauces, 
and spices is another prevalent bad habit, which 
leads to overeating. Foods should be seasoned very 
moderately, if at all. If one's desire for a certain 

21 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

food must be sharpened by a great amount of sea- 
soning, it is best not to partake of it. Those who eat 
enough of fresh raw fruits and vegetables will not 
require and should not desire an inordinate amount 
of seasoning; these fresh foods contain the required 
cell salts. 

Very few people know the natural flavors of their 
foods. These flavors, which are superior to those 
evolved by the best chefs, are destroyed by irritating 
gravies, sauces, and seasoning. After the taste has 
become perverted, the individual does not relish 
natural flavors and thus he is deprived of one of 
life's healthful enjoyments. 

Sickness is the rule; it is almost impossible to find 
an individual who is really healthy. This is largely 
due to being guided by perverted appetites. When 
we live normally, our desires are safe guides as to 
the amount and kind of food to eat, but this is not 
true when our senses are stimulated by coffee, pick- 
les, preserves, spices, and hodgepodges that appeal 
to the palate, but are ruinous to health. The med- 
ical profession, as a rule, urges us to eat even when 
we need to fast. 

These rules are to be observed at all times. They 
apply to the active business man, as well as to the 
baby and the man of eighty. Babies are made sick 

22 



DR. TILDEN'S FOUR ESSENTIAL RULES 

and cross by excessive feeding. While they are still 
in the cradle habits of gluttony are forced upon them. 
The aged are killed by overeating. If parents real- 
ized that overfeeding is the cause of the great infant 
mortality which disgraces our civilization, that it 
makes perverts of the growing youths, that perver- 
sion, insanity, and crime are often the result of the 
overfeeding begun in infancy, perhaps they would 
pause long enough to give the subject careful con- 
sideration. 

Wherever there is an effect there is a cause. The 
cause of disease, barring accidents, is improper liv- 
ing. The prevention of disease is applied common 
sense. 

Do not be afraid to miss a few meals, if neces- 
sary. There is seldom any need of prolonged fasts, 
but it is well to remember that the average individ- 
ual can fast four or more weeks without injury, pro- 
vided misgivings and fear are not entertained, so 
why worry about missing a few meals? 

Always quit eating while there is a feeling that 
more food could be taken with relish. Those who 
use too much fuel clog up their flues. 

"How much shall I eat?" is a very frequent ques- 
tion. It is impossible to answer this in exact terms; 
what is enough for one may be too much or too lit- 

23 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

tie for another. More food is needed in winter than 
in summer, and more is required by those doing 
hard manual labor than by those who work in offices. 
By observing the four rules intelligently, one can 
soon discover his food requirements and limitations. 
I have found that the following amounts satisfy me 
and are well digested: A meal consisting of two or 
three fairly large peaches with a glass or a glass and 
one-half of milk, clabbered milk, or buttermilk, 
preferably the latter two; a fairly large sauce dish- 
ful of cottage cheese may be substituted for the milk. 
A large baked apple, a large dish of berries, one or 
two raw apples, grapes enough to make a like 
amount, or other fruits, may be substituted for the 
peaches. 

Two and one-half to three ounces of what I call 
Tilden biscuits, with butter, are enough for a meal. 
One should not exceed four ounces of dried starch 
at any meal. Four to seven heaping tablespoonfuls 
of boiled rice, with butter, are sufficient; sometimes 
take a glass of any kind of milk or a cup of custard 
in addition. 

The drumstick, or first joint, a wing, and the neck 
of a fairly well-matured chicken make a good meat 
portion; a small piece of the breast may be substi- 
tuted for the wing. With this meat I would have 

24 



DR. TILDEN'S FOUR ESSENTIAL RULES 

about three or four medium-sized beets and the same 
number of fairly large onions, stewed, baked, or 
broiled, or a good-sized service dishful of spinach 
and sometimes a second helping, and a medium-size 
plateful of salad; no dessert. Other cooked, non- 
starchy vegetables may be substituted for those 
named. Two ordinary lamb chops, or a piece of 
steak one inch thick by three inches square, are gen- 
erally ample meat portions. 

Occasionally a meal is one of the above meat por- 
tions, a large baked potato, and a salad; or less 
meat, cooked and raw vegetables, and a piece of ap- 
ple pie. 

These are merely hints. Each individual must 
learn his own needs. When leading an active, out- 
door life, such as when one is hunting or fishing, 
more food is required than when one is engaged in 
ordinary business. 

It is easy to overeat on concentrated foods, but 
the succulent fruits and vegetables may be indulged 
in quite freely without overburdening the body. 

Do not drink any liquid while eating, for the pur- 
pose of "washing down" the food. 

Do not take anything into the stomach between 
meals, except water. If there is thirst or a feeling of 
weakness or emptiness, take warm water until three 

25 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

and one-half hours have elapsed since the last meal; 
thereafter take either warm or cold water. 

Learn to distinguish between appetite and hunger. 
Appetite is artificial, and manifests itself in a com- 
pelling desire for food, which must be satisfied at 
once ; hunger appreciates food at the right time, but 
is not insistent and will not annoy a person if a meal 
is missed. Appetite can be compared to the feeling 
a drunkard has when he is thirsty; he is thirsty, not 
for water, but for his favorite alcoholic beverage. 
Appetite is a craving for food, which produces certain 
stimulating effects that are injurious, and represents 
the same abnormal desire which the drunkard has for 
alcohol. 

In applying the above rules it is necessary to use 
common sense ; those who go to extremes derive but 
little benefit. People differ so much that even the plain- 
est language will be construed into various meanings. 
It is necessary to be perfectly honest with one's self. 
To illustrate: Some people complain of feeling 
badly nearly all afternoon, but they recover about 
an hour before meal time and partake of dinner. 
This is a form of dishonesty. On the other hand, 
some people search .their bodies and ransack their 
minds for aches and pains, which keeps them ill 
longer than necessary. 

26 



CHAPTER SIX 

FOOD CLASSIFICATION, COMBINATION AND 
COOKING 

Proteids. Under the caption of proteids come 
meats, fish, eggs, and nuts. These foods should be 
eaten only once a day, preferably for dinner in the 
evening, with one or two cooked non-starchy veg- 
etables and a salad. Occasionally it is all right to 
have some dessert. It is best to confine one's meat 
eating to the following: Mutton, lamb, chicken, 
turkey or other fowl, fish, game, veal, and beef. Eat 
beef not oftener than once or twice a week. Cured 
meats are not recommended, but occasionally have 
some ham or smoked beef tongue; or for break- 
fast, about once a week, some breakfast bacon with 
corn bread or well baked biscuit. Pork is a winter 
food. The meats should not be fried, nor should 
flour gravies be used. Meats should be broiled, 
stewed, or baked. 

Those who are fond of fish and are so situated 
that they can get this food fresh from the water, 
may have fish as often as they like, that is, for din- 
ner in place of any other proteid food. Fish should 
be baked or broiled. 

27 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

Eggs may be used in place of meat any time they 
are desired. 

Those who are fond of nuts may use them in place 
of meat. The pecan is the best nut, but blanched 
almonds, English walnuts, and Brazil nuts may each 
be used once a week. Nuts are a very concentrated 
food and about two ounces are sufficient for a meal. 
They must be thoroughly masticated, otherwise they 
cause indigestion. 

But one proteid meal is desirable each day, which 
means that on days when meat is eaten, one should 
not have nuts, fish, or eggs. 

Those who are fond of meat may eat it once a 
day during winter time, but during the warm months 
it should not be eaten oftener than every other day, 
and such heavy meats as pork and beef are to be 
avoided. It is all right to avoid meat entirely when 
the weather is warm and substitute fish, nuts, eggs, 
and cheese, which are not so heating and stimulat- 
ing. 

Oysters, raw or stewed, may be substituted for 
meat. The proper way to make an oyster stew is 
to cook the oysters in one dish. In another dish 
bring the milk to the boiling point, and then mix. 
Eat the stew in combination with a salad and cooked 

28 



FOOD CLASSIFICATION AND COMBINATION 

non-starchy vegetables, if desired. No crackers or 
other starchy foods are to be eaten with the stew. 

Starchy foods. All foods of the vegetable king- 
dom contain starch, but when "starchy foods" are 
mentioned in this booklet, those that contain a large 
per cent of granular starch are referred to. Like- 
wise, when the non-starchy vegetables are mentioned, 
the succulent vegetables, which are low in starch, are 
meant. This classification is very convenient for lay 
people and is used by Dr. Tilden. 

Under the heading of starchy foods come the fol- 
lowing : 

Anything made from any of the cereals, such as 

wheat, rice, oats, corn, rye, and barley, 
Bananas, 
Matured beans, 
Matured peas, 
Hubbard squash, 
Sweet potatoes, 
Irish potatoes, 
Artichokes (tuber variety), 
Peanuts, 
Tapioca and sago. 

Do not make combinations of the starchy foods 
and foods containing acids habitually. Occasion- 
ally, however, it is all right to have a piece of apple 
pie for dessert, after a dinner of meat, eggs, fish, or 

29 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

nuts with non-starchy vegetables. In the summer 
time it is all right to make a meal of raw fruit with 
plain cake or thoroughly toasted bread occasionally, 
but nothing else, unless it be teakettle tea (one-third 
milk, two-thirds boiling water, and a moderate 
amount of sugar), clabbered milk, or buttermilk, 
sipped slowly after the fruits and cake or toast have 
been eaten. People who are not in excellent health 
should not make such combinations. 

Tomatoes should not be eaten with any starchy 
food except the Irish potato. Those who are in ex- 
cellent health can eat all kinds of combinations for 
a time with apparently no bad results, but even the 
best constitutions will deteriorate prematurely under 
persistent abuse. 

Ordinarily starchy foods should be eaten but once 
a day. When eating lightly of starches, the weight 
will be somewhat less and there may be a lack of 
energy and strength when walking or working. This 
feeling will disappear when more starch is con- 
sumed. When feeling fine, except for the lack of a 
little force, supply the deficiency by increasing the 
starch intake. 

However, do not overeat on starch at any meal, 
but use starch twice a day occasionally. If biscuits, 

30 



FOOD CLASSIFICATION AND COMBINATION 

or other starchy foods, are eaten for breakfast, have 
a dinner containing meat, potatoes, and non-starchy 
vegetables, but no dessert. 

Children need starch oftener than adults; starch 
twice a day is all right for those who are growing. 
After full maturity is reached the starch intake must 
be diminished. Those who eat after thirty-five as 
they did in earlier years will age and break down pre- 
maturely. 

There is a great deal of difference between the 
feeling that calls for starch and the feeling that 
calls for a suspension of its use. When feeling fine, 
except for the lack of force, eat starch; when languid 
and tired, even when sitting or lying down, that is, 
when afflicted with what people call "that tired feel- 
ing," suspend the use of starch until that feeling 
leaves when at rest. 

Starches and non-starchy vegetables may be eaten 
together; also, starches and meats may occasionally 
be eaten in the same meal; it is best to make this 
combination when no other starchy food has been 
eaten that day. It is better, however, to eat starches 
with the dairy products. The potato is the best 
starchy food to combine with meat. Meat and 
breadstuffs habitually eaten in the same meal will 
cause digestive trouble. 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

Non-starchy vegetables. The following are the 
non-starchy or succulent vegetables: 

Artichokes (green or cone Kale and greens of all kinds, 

variety that grows above Green peas, 

ground), Lettuce, 

Asparagus, Onions, 

Beets, Okra, 

Cabbage, Parsnips, 

Cauliflower, Radishes, 

Carrots, Rutabagas, 

Celery, Spinach, 

Corn on cob, Summers -uash, 

Cucumbers, String beans, 

Egg plant, Salsify (oyster plant), 

Endive, Tomatoes, 

Turnips. 

The non-starchy vegetables combine best with the 
proteid foods. One or two of the above vegetables, 
cooked, with a green vegetable salad, consisting of 
two or three raw vegetables, such as lettuce, toma- 
toes, and celery or cucumbers, make a good meal 
when eaten with eggs, nuts, fish, or meat. Whenever 
salads are mentioned in these pages, they are to be 
made of raw vegetables, unless otherwise specified. 

A good vegetable soup can be made as follows: 
Take equal parts of four or five of the non-starchy 
vegetables, and some Irish potato, if desired; run 
these vegetables through a vegetable mill; put to 

32 



FOOD CLASSIFICATION AND COMBINATION 

cook with enough water to prevent burning, and 
when tender reduce to the consistency of soup by 
adding boiling water. Season with salt and butter. 

Those in full health can use hot milk to reduce in 
place of water. 

This soup is improved by running it through a 
collender after the vegetables have been cooked un- 
til they are tender. 

A plateful of this soup can be eaten for lunch, 
after having some kind of breadstuffs. It is not 
proper to put bread and crackers in soup, for these 
foods should be eaten dry. Eat the bread first and 
then follow with the soup, or vice versa. 

The non-starchy vegetables may be steamed, or 
cooked in water; barely enough water to keep them 
from burning is to be used, so there will be none to 
empty off when they are done; corn on the cob, un- 
peeled beets, potatoes boiled in their jackets, and 
asparagus are exceptions. The water in which veg- 
etables are boiled is rich in flavors and salts and 
should be eaten with the vegetables. All vegetables 
are to be cooked until thoroughly tender. Fireless 
cooking is very good, for none of the food value is 
lost. 

Fruits. The acid fruits, small fruits, and ber- 
ries are summer foods. They combine all right with 

33 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

any kind of mild cheese, or milk. Combining acid 
fruits and bread daily is a bad habit and is respon- 
sible for a great deal of disease. 

Frequently in summer, and occasionally in winter, 
it is all right to have a dessert of either cooked or 
raw acid fruit with a meal consisting of some kind 
of proteid food and non-starchy vegetables. Do not 
eat starchy food with the meat, vegetable, and fruit 
meal. 

Fruit is not especially recommended with meat and 
vegetables, for it makes too great variety, which 
leads to overeating. There is nothing incompatible 
about combinations containing meat, fruit, and veg- 
etables, but it is best not to coax the appetite too fre- 
quently. 

There is no objection to an occasional lunch of 
soup made of non-starchy vegetables with fruit; or a 
lunch of one or two cooked non-starchy vegetables 
and fruit; or a lunch of a salad made of raw veg- 
etables and fruit, such as lettuce, tomatoes, and 
strawberries. 

In winter time people who are in poor health or 
well advanced in years should seldom eat the fresh 
or raw fruits. Dates, figs, and raisins may be eaten 
in winter, either with dairy products or with bread 
and butter. Bananas are quite starchy and may be 

34 



FOOD CLASSIFICATION AND COMBINATION 

used in place of other starchy foods, such as bread, 
at any time. 

Cereals, candies, and sweets. Soft breakfast 
foods are not recommended. However, there is no 
objection to an occasional meal of thoroughly cooked 
oatmeal or cream of wheat with a little milk, half 
cream, and a little salt, but no sugar; the sugar leads 
to overeating and fermentation. The same is true 
of well made hot cakes and waffles, but such foods 
should not be eaten more than once or twice a week, 
and they must be thoroughly masticated and insali- 
vated. Hot cakes and waffles should not be eaten 
by people who do not enjoy good health. 

Such cereals as corn flakes, wheat flakes, popcorn, 
puffed rice or wheat, and shredded wheat should be 
eaten dry with a little melted butter sprinkled over 
them; crisp these foods thoroughly in a slow oven 
before serving; follow with a cup of teakettle tea, 
milk, sweet or clabbered, or buttermilk. 

Honey or maple syrup may be eaten with corn 
bread, biscuits, cakes, or waffles, but not oftener than 
two or three times a week, followed with the same 
kind of fluids as given above. 

People who crave sweets may make a meal of 
candy, and nothing else, once a week. Children may 

35 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

have such a meal two or three times a week. Plain 
caramels and other plain candies are best. If de- 
sired, follow with a glass of sweet milk, buttermilk, 
or teakettle tea. 

Chocolates should be eaten very rarely and spar- 
ingly, for they cause engorgement of the liver. 

Liquids. Avoid tea, coffee, chocolate, cocoa, 
and alcoholics. Do not drink milk at any time. Milk 
is a food, not a drink. Sip it very slowly, or take it 
with a teaspoon, mixing it with the saliva in the 
mouth. Milk may be sipped after a fruit meal, or 
after toast, or after eating any kind of cereal food. 

Milk is not to be partaken of with meals contain- 
ing meat, eggs, or fish, or in fact with any heavy 
dinner, for such eating overburdens the system with 
an excessive amount of food. 

Milk and other liquids should not be taken into 
the mouth while food is being masticated. Do not 
wash the food down with any fluid. Do not drink 
while eating. After the meal is over, do what drink- 
ing is necessary. If thirsty after finishing a meal, 
drink slowly some teakettle tea, or some water, either 
warm or cold. Robust people can take cold water 
immediately after finishing a meal, but those who 
are inclined to have digestive trouble should never 
do so. 

36 



FOOD CLASSIFICATION AND COMBINATION 

When digestion has begun, do not drink cold wa- 
ter. Wait three or three and one-half hours after 
eating before drinking cold water. If thirsty within 
this time, drink warm water. After this time has 
elapsed have what cold water is desired up to within 
fifteen minutes of next meal time. 

Avoid ice water. It has the same effect as water 
that is too hot, that is, it irritates the stomach. 

It is best not to use any alcoholic beverages, but 
if they are used they should be taken with the din- 
ner, not between meals. A glass of beer or a glass 
of light wine with the dinner occasionally should be 
the extent of such indulgence. If these beverages are 
sipped slowly there is very little danger of cultivat- 
ing an abnormal desire for them. Those who have 
a craving for alcoholics should let them absolutely 
alone, for if they use them they will indulge more 
and more until they become slaves to their abnormal 
appetites. 

Avoid tobacco. All stimulants and narcotics are 
injurious. 



37 



CHAPTER SEVEN 
GENERAL PLAN FOR DAILY EATING 

All meals should be eaten deliberately. The con- 
versation at the table should be pleasant. Do not 
discuss anything that has an irritating or depressing 
effect. If a person is nervous, irritable, or worried, 
he is not in fit condition to eat anything, for digestive 
power is lacking. If tired, it is best to lie down for 
a little while and relax before eating. It is essen- 
tial to good digestion to have both the body and the 
mind at ease during the meal time. 

Very few people realize the importance of com- 
bining foods properly. Eating too many varieties 
of food at a meal leads to overeating; making in- 
compatible mixtures causes indigestion; both are 
prolific sources of disease. The less variety used at 
each meal and the more simply the foods are pre- 
pared the better. When vegetables and starchy 
foods are cooked, they should be well cooked; meats 
may be rare or well done, to suit the individual taste. 

Every person should have so much information 
on the subject of combining foods that he will avoid 
making mixtures that are ruinous to health. It 
is not making bad combinations occasionally or hav- 

38 



GENERAL PLAN FOR DAILY EATING 

ing too big a meal once in a while that is injurious; 
it is the bad daily eating habits practiced year in and 
year out. People who eat so that they are troubled 
with gas in the stomach or bowels, or both, have in- 
digestion, which will some day be serious. Gas comes 
from fermentation and fermentation is due to indi- 
gestion. It is true that some people lead such in- 
tense lives that they have not enough energy left to 
digest their food, but most digestive troubles are 
due to bad eating habits. 

In suggesting menus, or meals, it is necessary to 
have a definite plan. However, if it is found better 
to have what is suggested for the morning at noon, 
and vice versa, there is no objection. Some people 
eat their dinner at noon. The plan that is best for 
most people is to have the dinner in the evening, 
after the day's work is done. Everyone should have 
some definite plan. However, this plan should be 
flexible so that a change can be made occasionally, 
if desired. 

If digestion is slow, it is well to eat the fruit meal 
in the morning, for it digests in less time than the 
starchy meal. 

Dr. Tilden's system regarding daily eating con- 
templates that starches, proteids, and fruits should 
each be eaten only once a day, and they should gen- 

39 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

erally be eaten at separate meals, allowing four and 
one-half hours, or more, between meals. Have a 
regular meal time and adhere to it as nearly as pos- 
sible; if it is necessary to go one hour or more be- 
yond this time without taking food, eat nothing until 
next meal time, but drink all the water desired. The 
four essential rules must be observed at all times. 

Breakfast. For this meal have fruit, either 
cooked or raw, selecting a different fruit for each 
breakfast, if desired. With the fruit, it is all right 
to have either cream cheese or cottage cheese, or fol- 
low the fruit meal with a cup of teakettle tea, or a 
glass of any kind of milk. 

Lunch. For lunch have some kind of starchy 
food, selecting from the list previously given, with 
butter. As often as desired follow with vegetable 
soup. If neither milk nor cheese was eaten in the 
morning, the starchy food may be followed with 
some kind of milk or mild cheese. 

A good lunch or breakfast can be made of either 
cantaloupes or watermelon when they are in season, 
either by themselves or eaten with berries or some 
of the small fruits. Cantaloupes may also be eaten 
with ice cream by people who have good health. 

Dinner. For dinner have either fish, meat, eggs, 
40 



GENERAL PLAN FOR DAILY EATING 

or nuts with one or two cooked non-starchy vegeta- 
bles, and a plate of salad. Desserts should not be 
eaten every day, but two or three times a week have 
some well made pie, custard, fruit, or ice cream. 

If occasionally there is a desire for starchy food 
with the dinner, have some baked potato, meat, and 
a salad. Do not have any dessert in this meal. 

The following is a good rule to observe in regard 
to eating potatoes or other starchy foods for din- 
ner: Have eggs for breakfast, with fruit or cot- 
tage cheese ; then have fruit again for lunch, or veg- 
etable soup, corn on the cob, or a couple glasses of 
buttermilk; then for dinner have potato or some 
other kind of starchy food with one or two cooked 
non-starchy vegetables and a salad; if desired, have 
a cup of custard, a piece of custard pie, or a dish of 
ice cream for dessert. 

A person should select his food as he selects his 
clothing for the day. A selection of food should be 
made and then no further attention should be given 
to the subject. When seated at the table, decide 
quickly what is proper, eat what has been selected, 
and give the subject no more thought. 

Specimen menus. All foods can be eaten. For 
the benefit of those who wish something more defi- 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

nite than these general directions the following spec- 
imen menus are appended. People should learn to 
think for themselves and then they will have no 
trouble in selecting meals that are not only appetiz- 
ing, but meals that will not cause ill-health. 

WINTER MENUS. 

Breakfast. Baked apples, cottage cheese, tea- 
kettle tea. 

Lunch. Toasted bread, butter, vegetable 
soup. 

Dinner. Roast beef, stewed onions and car- 
rots, cabbage slaw, apple pie. 

Breakfast. Cream cheese, two ounces of figs, 
teakettle tea. 

Lunch. Cup custard, well made biscuits, butter. 

Dinner. Roast lamb, peas and beets, combi- 
nation salad. 

Breakfast. Waffles with butter and maple 
syrup, glass of milk. 

Lunch. Vegetable soup and two ounces of 
cream cheese. 

Dinner. Broiled chicken, baked potato, spin- 
ach, lettuce and celery. 

42 



GENERAL PLAN FOR DAILY EATING 

Breakfast. Bananas, raisins, teakettle tea. 
Lunch. Biscuits with butter, glass of milk. 
Dinner. Broiled beefsteak, carrots and tur- 
nips stewed together, lettuce and celery. 

Breakfast. Dates, nuts, teakettle tea. 
Lunch. Buttermilk or clabbered milk. 
Dinner. Baked navy beans, vegetable salad. 

Breakfast. Baked apples with cream, cream 

cheese. 

Lunch. Rice with milk or butter, cup custard. 
Dinner. Roast pork, stewed onions and stewed 

celery, salad. 

Breakfast. Corn bread, breakfast bacon, one 

egg, teakettle tea. 
Lunch. Fruit and cottage cheese. 
Dinner. Roast turkey with cranberry sauce, 

string beans, peas, sliced tomatoes. 

SUMMER MENUS. 

Breakfast. Prunes with rich milk. 
Lunch. Dish of ice cream, toasted bread. 
Dinner. Pecans, combination salad, dish of 
berries. 

43 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

Breakfast. Grapefruit, dressed with sugar, 

glass of buttermilk. 
Lunch. All the corn on the cob desired with 

butter, with or without a salad. 
Dinner. Macaroni and cheese, string beans, 

cauliflower, salad. 

Breakfast. Berries with lettuce and tomatoes, 
dressed with sugar or sugar and clab- 
bered cream. 

Lunch. Two glasses of buttermilk. 

Dinner. Baked fish, butter beets, sliced toma- 
toes, sliced peaches. 

Breakfast. Biscuits with butter and honey. 
Lunch. Cantaloupe and berries, ice cream. 
Dinner. Eggs, stewed tomatoes, combination 
salad, berries. 

Breakfast. Sliced peaches with cream, cottage 
cheese. 

Lunch. Fruit and vegetable salad. 

Dinner. Stewed chicken, beets, carrots, veg- 
etable salad. 

44 



GENERAL PLAN FOR DAILY EATING 

Breakfast. Lettuce, tomatoes, and berries, 
dressed with sugar and cream. 

Lunch. Watermelon. 

Dinner. Baked potatoes, stewed string beans, 
cauliflower, vegetable salad, cup of cus- 
tard. 

Breakfast. Stewed prunes and cottage cheese. 
Lunch. Sponge cake and ice cream. 
Dinner. Pecans, cooked non-starchy vegeta- 
bles, salad. 

The above menus do not follow the general rules 
exactly, but one is to have the liberty of making in- 
telligent choice. 

During the summer the body does not need the 
amount of heat-producing foods that are necessary 
in winter. Summer is the time to live largely on 
fruits and vegetables, and avoid overeating on 
meats. Instead of eating meat in summer, have 
eggs, nuts, and fish, if the fish is above suspicion. 

It is very important to combine foods properly, 
but it is even more important to be discreet and mod- 
erate. At times it may be impossible to obtain ideal 
foods; it may be necessary to live chiefly on the sta- 
ple foods (bread, meat, potatoes, beans, rice, sugar) 

45 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

for a while. These foods are very concentrated, 
and should be eaten in moderation. A large plate- 
ful of salad contains no more nourishment than a 
small potato, and a small helping of navy beans is 
more nourishing than a large amount of stewed 
onions. 

Do not worry about the food, but use intelligent 
care in making selections. Do not make the mistake 
of eating bread, meat, and potatoes three times a 
day. It is nearly always possible to obtain some kind 
of fruit, and raw fruits can be substituted for the 
salad vegetables. The following meals should not 
be hard to obtain and will give an idea of what 
selections to make when the variety of food is lim- 
ited: Eggs and toasted bread; stewed fruit and 
milk; meat and potatoes; beans and teakettle tea; 
toast and milk; meat with either stewed or raw fruit, 
or both; rice with milk or butter; hard boiled eggs 
with bread or potatoes; stewed fruit and nothing 
else. Do not combine many of these staple foods, 
for the result will be overeating. It is simply a mat- 
ter of using common sense. 

Teakettle tea may be used after any meal, when 
desired. 

Pork is a winter food. It is all right to have roast 
pork once or twice a week with cooked and raw veg- 

46 



GENERAL PLAN FOR DAILY EATING 

etables. A good dinner can occasionally be made of 
navy beans and a salad and nothing else. 

During the early years of life feed bread made 
largely of whole wheat flour. It contains more of 
the salts and building materials than the bolted flour. 
After middle age, use less and less of whole wheat 
products. Those who wish to retain a pliable mind 
and a healthy body will begin to reduce their starch 
intake at the age of thirty-five or before. If this is 
not done, early degeneration will result. It is no 
hardship to treat one's self right. There is every 
reason for not being a slave to one's habits, as most 
people are today. 

In selecting fruits, remember that the cooked 
ones are dead, while the raw fruit is alive. Raw 
fruit has a tendency to check fermentation, which is 
not true of cooked fruit. 

Get a rational knowledge about food, but do not 
make a fad of it. People who insist on discussing 
such topics as food and health in season and out of 
season are a nuisance. Most people insist on injur- 
ing themselves with their bad habits in spite of every- 
thing. The rule is that each individual can reform 
one person himself. 



47 



CHAPTER EIGHT 

THE CARE OF CHILDREN 

Healthy babies must have healthy parents. It is 
the duty of parents to be healthy so that their chil- 
dren will have a good start in life; it is also their 
duty to give the children such care that they will have 
the opportunity to become healthy adults. Unfortu- 
nately the ideas on the care of children are so er- 
roneous that the mortality early in life is exceedingly 
great. 

Normal, well-cared-for babies sleep nearly all the 
time. They should not be disturbed in any way ex- 
cept when they need care. They wake up often 
enough to be fed. The best food is the normal 
mother's milk. 

Babies should not be fed more than three or, at 
the most, four times a day, and not at all during the 
night. For the first year they need nothing but the 
mother's milk, supplemented by the milk of a healthy 
cow or goat, if the mother is unable to furnish suffi- 
cient food. Goat's milk is preferable to cow's milk, 
for it is easier to digest. 

Contrary to popular opinion, babies should not be 
fat, for fat babies are not healthy. 

48 



THE CARE OF CHILDREN 

Give the little ones all the water they wish, teach- 
ing them to take it from a nursing bottle. The tem- 
perature should be about 100 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Children often fret because they are thirsty, or un- 
comfortable from being overfed, but this is gener- 
ally interpreted as being due to hunger; the result of 
this misinterpretation is overfeeding and sickness. 

Babies should not be bounced, nor should they be 
shown off. They should be allowed to live tranquil 
lives, so that they may develop normally. Excite- 
ment makes them nervous and irritable. Those who 
want "good" children must let them alone. 

Babies should not be fed anything at the table. It 
is quite common to see a mother feeding her six to 
ten-months old bady on meat, potatoes, and bread. 
Such feeding helps to swell the infant mortality. 

When the child is a year old it is time enough to 
begin feeding other foods than milk. Do not give 
any soft or mushy starches until the child has learned 
to masticate, and then very seldom. Young chil- 
dren will moisten crusts or thoroughly toasted bread 
with saliva before swallowing, and thus prevent in- 
digestion. Fresh bread is swallowed without being 
mouthed, and fermentation is the result. The flaked 
or puffed cereals, with melted butter sprinkled over 
them, are all right. 

49 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

Fruit should not be given unless it is thoroughly 
ripe. If the child is inclined to bolt it, the fruit may 
be ground up. Teach the child to eat cooked non- 
starchy vegetables and salad. The salad vegetables 
may also be ground at first. 

Children can have milk three times a day if they 
wish, but it should be scrupulously clean. They 
should be taught to sip the milk very slowly or take 
it with a teaspoon, for it is a food and if swallowed 
too hurriedly it will be converted into curds so large 
that they are hard to digest. If the meal is bread 
and milk, the milk should be eaten either before or 
after the bread is eaten. A mushy mixture of bread 
and milk is improper, for it leads to underchewing 
and overeating, thus laying the foundation for the 
early development of digestive troubles. 

If the child wants three meals a day of bread and 
milk occasionally, very well. However, most chil- 
dren are fond of fruit, and one meal a day may be 
all the fruit desired, cooked or raw, with a glass of 
any kind of milk, or a dish of cottage cheese, or a 
piece of mild cream cheese. Bananas should not be 
fed if there is a tendency to bolt the food. 

It is best to give little or no meat during the first 
few years of life. Substitute eggs, nuts, and cheese. 
Meat is too stimulating. A good meal would be 



THE CARE OF CHILDREN 

egg, all the cooked non-starchy vegetables desired, 
and a salad. Cooked non-starchy vegetables, a salad, 
and a glass of milk, or a dish of cottage cheese make 
a good meal. 

The simpler the meals the better the child will 
thrive. Do not make the prevalent mistake of feed- 
ing fruit and breadstuffs, or other starchy foods, in 
the same meal. Such feeding lays the foundation for 
catarrh, bronchitis, scarlet fever, croup, whooping 
cough, measles, and other maladies which are too 
often fatal. 

If the child wants jellies and jams, give them with 
other fruits occasionally, either with or without cot- 
tage cheese and milk, but not with bread; if the child 
overeats on such combinations, do not repeat; if he 
wants candy, give him a meal of plain candy and 
milk. Chocolates should be avoided, for they have 
a tendency to interfere with the normal functioning 
of the liver. 

Desserts should be used sparingly; occasionally 
give a piece of well-baked fruit pie with the dinner; 
sometimes custard with plain cake for lunch, or cus- 
tard and toasted bread. In summer time give ice 
cream with plain cake or toasted bread for lunch 
several times a week. There is no craving for fancy 
foods until the taste has been perverted. By feed- 

51 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

ing plain foods the danger of overeating is reduced 
to a minimum. 

Lunching is not necessary. It is a bad habit. 
Three meals a day are sufficient, even for growing 
children. If lunches are given, they should be noth- 
ing heartier than the juicy fruits, but those who wish 
to do the best they can for their children will give 
no lunches. 

Never ask children if they wish food or drink. If 
allowed to develop normally they will partake of all 
they need. If they wish lemonade, give it at the end 
of a fruit meal. 

Children like to patronize the soda fountains, but 
they should not be encouraged to establish irregular 
eating habits in this way. If they want ice cream or 
ice cream soda, either take them to the soda foun- 
tain when they have finished their meal and give the 
ice cream as a dessert, or let them have enough ice 
cream with cakes for a meal. 

Tea, coffee, chocolate, and cocoa should not be 
used. The best beverages are water and teakettle 
tea, the latter at meal time only. 

When the children are not well, never coax them 
to eat or try to arouse their hunger by preparing ap- 
petizing dishes for them. Normal hunger will re- 

52 



THE CARE OF CHILDREN 

turn without coaxing and until it does there should 
be no feeding. 

Both the father and the mother should take suffi- 
cient time to study each one of their children, for 
no two children are exactly alike. Too often the 
parents and the children are not really acquainted. 
It is a great privilege to be able to watch the devel- 
opment and unfolding of a new life, and the parent 
who is but a physical parent, and no more, fails to 
avail himself of the opportunity of benefiting him- 
self as well as his children. 

Children should not be nagged, for it ruins the 
nervous system. They should be dealt with firmly, 
but kindly. As soon as possible they should be 
taught to obey their parents promptly and willingly. 
There should be no bickering, and no repetition. 
The children should learn that whatever they are 
requested to do must be done at once. 

Of course, the parents should be sensible and 
reasonable in their requests. Under no circumstances 
should they be tyrants, exercising authority because 
they are able to do so; nor should they try to make 
the children like themselves in all respects, for the 
children are little men and women with individuali- 
ties of their own, and often with undreamed-of tal- 

53 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

ents which will unfold if they are allowed to develop 
in favorable environment. 

Only on rare occasions should the parent resort 
to corporeal punishment. It should never be done 
in anger; the parents who punish their children to 
relieve their own feelings will live to rue it. Deeply 
implanted in the breasts of children is a love of jus- 
tice and fair play, which should be nurtured. When 
they realize that their parents are unjust, they cease 
to respect and love them as much as formerly. Most 
children can be governed by appealing to their better 
nature and this appeal should always be made be- 
fore resorting to physical force. 

The parents should be their children's compan- 
ions. The children should always feel at liberty to 
come to the father or the mother with all their 
troubles. It is especially important that there should 
be no ignorance on the subject of sex, when children 
are old enough to need and appreciate such knowl- 
edge. If the parents do not explain this matter, the 
children often pick up misleading information from 
the class of people who are dangerous instructors. 
Many boys and girls, just budding into manhood or 
womanhood, have been ruined through curiosity, 
who could have been saved if the parents had done 
their duty. 

54 



THE CARE OF CHILDREN 

The children should be taught to be independent 
early in life. They should be taught to care for 
themselves and to be useful, no matter how exalted 
the station of the parents may be. 

The best parent is he who teaches his children 
early in life how to get along without him. 



55 



CHAPTER NINE 
CONSTIPATION 

Constipation is often referred to as "the great 
American disease." However, no country or con- 
tinent has a monopoly on this affliction. It is a con- 
dition that no one should tolerate, for it always leads 
to other diseases. The lower bowel is the great 
sewer of the system; its function is to carry off the 
waste of the body. It is so constructed that if the 
waste is not carried off, a part of it will be absorbed, 
poisoning the whole system. 

Those who live as they should are not troubled 
with constipation. The liver and intestinal glands 
of a healthy individual secrete properly and the 
waste is thrown off in a normal manner. Those who 
have become constipated can remedy the condition 
by correcting their lives. It often takes considerable 
time and sometimes the condition is so obstinate that 
it requires expert advice to overcome it. A physician 
who pretends to cure this condition by giving drugs 
is not a safe adviser, for the rule is that the more 
drugs taken the more obstinate becomes the consti- 
pation. 

56 



CONSTIPATION 

People have various ways of compelling sluggish 
bowels to perform their duty; some take powders 
or pills; others use mineral waters or enemas; and 
still others pin their faith to coarse food, such as 
bran bread. All of these have the desired effect 
temporarily, but the time comes, sooner or later, 
when they produce the condition which they are 
taken to alleviate. It is better to take enough mineral 
water to secure a movement than to allow the bowels 
to become clogged and the body to be poisoned as a 
result. Enemas may be resorted to under the same 
circumstances, but no one should rely on such means 
to cure. Learn to live so that all the bodily functions 
are performed in a normal way and then such dis- 
eases as constipation will take wing. 

Have a movement of the bowels every day. Have 
a regular time to solicit a movement, and do not neg- 
lect it ; then after a while the bowels will move regu- 
larly, for they can be educated to perform their duty. 
Never neglect the calls of nature in this line, for that 
will result in blunting the sensitiveness of the bowels. 
The time to have a movement is when nature makes 
known her wishes. The morning, either before or 
after breakfast, seems to be the favored time, but 
this does not apply to everybody. Do not be in a 
hurry and do not strain severely in order to force the 

57 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

movement, for a slight bearing down is all that is 
necessary when nature is unobstructed. 

It is very important to have a regular time each 
day to solicit a movement, otherwise one is inviting 
constipation. 

Overeating, especially of the staple foods, is a 
prolific source of constipation. The overeating 
causes overstimulation of the bowels, followed by 
sluggishness, also perversion of the secretions which 
act as lubricants. 

Many people who are constipated think too much 
about the subject. There is a constant auto-sugges- 
tion which confirms the habit. If a person concen- 
trates his mind a great deal on any disease, it will 
be but a short time until he is suffering from it, or 
until he imagines he has the disease, which is about 
as bad. Let the mental processes be directed into 
healthful channels; instead of wasting the mental 
forces in thinking about disease, use them in train- 
ing the body and mind into correct habits, after 
which health is assured. 

Rectal dilators are often beneficial in obstinate 
constipation, especially when the individual is ner- 
vous and his muscles have a tendency to be tense. 
These dilators come in sets of graded sizes; use a 
small one at first and gradually increase the size. 

58 



CONSTIPATION 

Another aid for those whose bowels are stubborn 
is to assume the natural squatting position, when go- 
ing to stool, of people who dwell in places unim- 
proved by man. This can be done in the bathroom 
by placing the feet on a foot-stool, six to twelve 
inches high, in front of the stool. 

The raw fruits and vegetables, as a rule, have a 
constipating tendency. When constipated, eat cooked 
fruits and thoroughly cooked non-starchy vegetables, 
and use less of the raw fruits and the raw vegetables. 
Also use less of the dairy products, except butter, for 
their tendency is to make the bowels sluggish when 
people are inclined that way. Butter is the only dairy 
product which should be used regularly when con- 
stipated. Stewed prunes and rhubarb are especially 
laxative. 

Taking a pint, or more, of water between the 
time of getting up and breakfast time, a glassful or 
two twenty or thirty minutes before the noon meal, 
and the same amount before the evening meal should 
have a beneficial effect on sluggish bowels. The thirst 
should not be used as a guide when the bowels are 
inclined to be constipated; then it is well to drink as 
directed whether thirsty or not. 

Cooked fruit for breakfast and well-cooked, non- 
starchy vegetables for dinner are beneficial when 

59 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

the bowels are constipated. Poorly-cooked vegeta- 
bles are of no benefit. Stewed spinach and stewed 
onions are more laxative than the other vegetables. 
Dress the spinach with olive oil or butter, and very 
little salt, and eat freely of it. Dress the other veg- 
etables in like manner. Olive oil makes a very nice 
dressing, and some people prefer it to butter. Lemon 
juice may be used sparingly. 

Raw vegetables, such as celery, lettuce, and toma- 
toes, are very necessary foods, for they prevent fer- 
mentation and carry needed cell salts, in forms easy 
to digest and assimilate, into the system, but they 
have a constipating tendency. When the bowels be- 
come regular, increase the consumption of raw veg- 
etables and raw fruits. 

It is not advisable to refrain entirely from eating 
dairy products, raw fruits, and raw vegetables be- 
cause of constipation. Eat less of them than when 
the bowels are normal and eat freely of the cooked 
non-starchy vegetables, especially of those that are 
most laxative. By so doing the body gets the ben- 
efit of the anti fermentative action of the raw fruit 
and vegetable juices. 

Prunes, raisins, figs, and dates are not constipat- 
ing unless they are eaten in excess, and people should 
not eat to exceed their requirements; most foods will 

60 



CONSTIPATION 

produce constipation sooner or later when people 
overeat, for then there is fermentation with gas for- 
mation, and the gas so distends the bowels that they 
cannot do their work properly. 

The excessive use of sweets has a constipating ef- 
fect, for sweets taken beyond bodily requirements 
tend to make the liver sluggish. 

As nearly everybody overeats, or eats wrong com- 
binations of foods, or both, and thus overworks the 
stomach and other digestive organs, keeping them in 
a constant state of irritation, it will be found that 
temporary constipation generally results when the 
food supply is reduced so that the food acts only as 
a food, not as an irritant. For this reason so much 
stress has been laid on keeping the bowels open and 
securing a daily movement by following the directions 
given. In some cases an almost complete paralysis 
of the bowels may result. Under the circumstances 
it is well to resort to an enema on the second day of 
constipation, using a pint, or even more, of lukewarm 
water, in which some pure castile soap (enough to 
render the water opaque) has been dissolved; or a 
larger enema of water without the soap; hold this 
ten or fifteen minutes and try to have a movement. 
It is best not to get the enema habit, for the water 

61 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

washes away the secretions in the lower part of the 
bowel; these secretions act as lubricants. 

People who are troubled with constipation will 
improve vastly in health when they get rid of this 
disease in a rational way. Various exercises, such 
as kneading the bowels, bending and touching the 
floor with the tips of the fingers, the knee-shoulder 
exercise previously described, lying flat on the back 
and going through the motions of riding a bicycle, 
and others, are helpful in overcoming the torpor of 
the muscles of the abdominal wall and of the bowel 
walls, and thus they help to overcome this condi- 
tion. 

Another good exercise is to lie flat on the back 
and with knees rigid raise the legs as far as possible 
while counting ten, and return the legs to the floor 
to the same count. Each person should be able to 
select various other exercises that are beneficial. 

To cure constipation permanently it is necessary 
for the individual to get his body into normal condi- 
tion and then live so that the body can remain 
normal. 



62 



CHAPTER TEN 
GAS IN THE DIGESTIVE TRACT 

There is normally a small amount of gas in the 
bowels, but it is such a small amount that it is imper- 
ceptible. If there is rumbling of gas, passing of 
gas from the bowels, or belching, it means fermen- 
tation, and fermentation means indigestion. It is 
due to overeating, eating too rapidly, eating wrong 
combinations, or eating when one should not eat. 

Many people are troubled with gas when they 
partake of such foods as matured beans, prunes, and 
spinach. Those who have good digestive power and 
are prudent about their eating are not inconven- 
ienced in this way, even after eating the foods men- 
tioned. If the gas is foul or if the breath is bad, it 
shows that there is decomposition, and then the 
proper thing to do is to stop eating until the system 
has had time to throw off the poison, for decompos- 
ing food is poison. The bowel discharges should 
never be offensive; when they are there is intestinal 
decomposition. 

Bad breath sometimes comes from unclean mouth 
and decaying teeth, but more often it is the result of 
decomposition of food in the stomach. The teeth 
should be brushed at least twice a day and the 
mouth should be rinsed after each meal. 

63 



CHAPTER ELEVEN 

INTROSPECTION 

Many people exaggerate their own importance. 
They take themselves and everything pertaining to 
themselves too seriously. When they are trying to 
regain lost health, that is to them the most impor- 
tant subject in the world. They not only think of it 
almost constantly, but wish to discuss the matter 
with friends and acquaintances, and have them think 
about it. This is a mistake. The more people dwell 
on their ills the more serious they seem. Disease is a 
disgrace, and the sooner people quit advertising their 
shortcomings in that line the sooner they will be in 
position to acquire health. 

Dr. Tilden says: "Do not make a business of 
taking care of your health. Acquire enough infor- 
mation to take care of yourself without thinking 
about it or making a business of it. Select your food 
as you select your clothing for the day. Do not 
think much about eating before meal time. When 
you come to the table, figure out quickly what you 
should have. Don't discuss your habits with anybody. 
When you dine with a friend, if you are offered some- 
thing that you do not wish to eat, do not excite curi- 



INTROSPECTION 

osity or comment by refusing the food, but take a 
little on your plate, muss it up and leave it, not say- 
ing anything about the fact that you do not care to 
eat it. Should you be invited to a turkey dinner or 
a banquet, use your judgment and avoid explana- 
tions as to why you refuse to touch certain dishes." 

If one eats too much on a certain occasion, it is 
best to miss a meal or two thereafter until the body 
has recovered from the excessive food intake. 

To get the best out of life it is necessary to have 
a wide horizon. We can associate with the best 
minds of the past centuries. We may lose our 
friends, but if we cultivate our minds to appreciate 
the best, we cannot be deprived of the companion- 
ship of such great men as Plato, Marcus Aurelius, 
Shakespeare, Milton, Emerson, Darwin, Spencer, 
and many others. 

It is well to read the lives of great men and the 
histories of great people. By so doing we get a bet- 
ter perspective. We learn that no matter how great 
were the men or the nations, the world continued to 
revolve serenely after their brief day was over; and 
so it will be after our small part is played. 

It is well to be on good terms with the insects and 
the flowers, and all other living things. The more 
we know of other parts of nature, the better we will 

65 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

understand ourselves. The deeper and broader our 
knowledge, the greater will be the bonds of good- 
will binding us to our fellow beings. 

Those who are too introspective and self-centered 
gradually contract their horizon until they are living 
in a shell, as it were. Insanity lies in this direction. 

We are dependent one upon the other, and those 
who get the most out of life are the ones who give 
as gladly as they receive. 



66 



CHAPTER TWELVE 

DISEASE 

Sickness is unnecessary. It is due to the fact that 
we fail to adjust ourselves to our environment; in 
other words, we are not in harmony with nature. It 
is not possible to give the subject a great deal of at- 
tention in this booklet, but in this chapter a few hints 
of importance in acute diseases will be given. 
Chronic diseases generally require expert attention, 
and it is always necessary to correct the bad habits 
which caused these diseases if a permanent cure is 
desired. 

Acute diseases generally make themselves known 
through pain and fever. The most important meas- 
ure is to take absolutely nothing but water into the 
stomach until the pain and fever are both gone and 
there is a feeling of comfort and ease. It does not 
matter if it takes two or three weeks to restore the 
body to ease, do not eat; there is positively no danger 
of starving to death. Water is to be given as often 
and in as large quantities as desired. 

Clean out the bowels as soon as possible. Acute 
diseases are generally caused by poisoning from the 
digestive tract and the sooner the poisons are re- 
moved the sooner health will return. Either ene- 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

mas or cathartics, or both, may be used for this pur- 
pose, but avoid violent purgatives. So long as the 
disease lasts the bowels should be cleaned out every 
day. If cathartics are given they should not be 
powerful enough to deprive the blood of much 
serum, which is what happens when the stools are 
copious and very watery. The mineral waters on 
the market are effective. 

If the fever is high, give cool or cold baths as 
often as necessary. If there is fever accompanied 
with nervousness the best way to reduce the temper- 
ature is to give a hot bath. Hot baths should be hot, 
not tepid, and the individual should remain in the 
bath until relaxed. Do not take drugs to relieve 
pain, but take a hot bath, remaining in the water, if 
necessary, for an hour. While in the bath drink all 
the water desired, and keep a cloth dipped in cold 
water on the forehead; drinking moderately hot wa- 
ter both before entering the tub and while taking the 
bath aids in bringing about free perspiration. There 
must be fresh air entering the bathroom during the 
entire time that the body is immersed, for the air 
soon becomes vitiated in a small room. 

The sick-room must be plentifully supplied with 
fresh air at all hours. 

In protracted illness the body must be rubbed 

68 



DISEASE 

thoroughly at least once a day, and two or three 
times would be better. If the fever is high an alco- 
hol rub will generally be found soothing and refresh- 
ing, but the rubbing is of more value than the alco- 
hol. 

The sick-room should not be converted into a re- 
ception room, nor should anyone with doleful face 
be permitted in it. It is not necessary to be doing 
something for the invalid all the time. Keep him 
clean inside and outside, take care of his skin, give 
him all the water he wants, and then let him alone. 
In acute diseases the body needs to rest in order to 
throw off the disease; no rest is possible when a per- 
son is being showered with needless and annoying 
attention. 

The mouth should be rinsed out and the teeth 
brushed several times a day. In fevers, poisons ac- 
cumulate rapidly in the mouth ; if they are swallowed, 
recovery is retarded. 

Nearly all acute disease yield quickly to a kindly 
treatment of this nature, and the mortality is exceed- 
ingly small. When it is remembered that foods do 
not digest while an acute attack of disease lasts, and 
that drugs further disturb an already overburdened 
body, it is easy to realize that foods and drugs are 
not only unnecessary, but injurious. 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

The cause of tonsillitis and of typhoid fever is the 
same self-poisoning brought on by improper living, 
especially improper eating. This statement may 
seem far-fetched and foolish to people who have 
implicit faith in the popular germ theory of disease. 
But the facts remain that improper living causes dis- 
ease, and that diseases, though variously named and 
located, are the same. 

The disease known as a cold, which is really an 
irritation or a very mild grade of fever, is due to di- 
gestive disturbances. If there is no self-poisoning 
(autointoxication) it is almost impossible to take a 
cold. A cold is often the starting point of other dis- 
eases, such as^ tonsillitis, inflammations of the va- 
rious parts of the throat and of the respiratory or- 
gans, and of that nuisance known as chronic catarrh. 
Colds will not last long if at the onset one takes a 
sweat bath, gives the bowels a thorough cleaning, 
and goes without food for a day or two. Those who 
like Turkish baths may take one. After the cold is 
cured, live properly and there will be no more colds. 

Those who do not desire to get well so quickly 
may go onto a monotonous diet, such as toast and 
milk three times a day, or fruit three times a day, 
nothing else. 

70 



DISEASE 

If it is necessary to take a fast lasting three 
or more days, eating should be resumed gradu- 
ally, more gradually after a long fast than after a 
short one. The first few meals should be very light 
and simple. Fresh fruit juices; juicy ripe fruit; 
buttermilk; clabbered milk well beaten; fresh milk; 
chicken or mutton broth made from lean meat and 
the fat skimmed off; tomatoes, or a salad of crisp 
lettuce and tomatoes : These are some of the foods 
on which to break the fast, using but one at a time. 
If all goes well the first day, on the second day it 
will be all right to take some solid food, such as 
stewed chicken or lamb in the evening, the other two 
meals being light. On the third day begin to eat as 
in health, but less in quantity. Then increase until 
taking what food is needed by the body. Of course, 
if one of the meals disagrees, do not eat until all bad 
effects have disappeared. 

The following is a severe form of sweat bath, 
whicli should not be taken by weak people, or by 
those debilitated by fevers, heart or arterial dis- 
eases; in fact it is for those who are not suffering 
from organic troubles. It produces copious perspi- 
ration, equalizes the circulation, and because it re- 
lieves congestion of the blood it is of great aid in 
preventing the development of colds and pneumonia. 

71 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

Fill a deep tub at least one-half full of moderately 
hot water; before getting into the tub, drink one or 
two glasses of moderately hot water; immerse the 
body up to the neck for four or five minutes ; lather 
a large cloth or a towel with good soap (hand sapo- 
lio, ivory, castile) and wash the neck, face, and head; 
rinse off ; then lather the whole body with the soaped 
cloth or towel. Immerse the body again for four or 
five minutes in the water which has been made 
warmer by the gradual addition of hot water; fol- 
low with another thorough lathering and another 
immersion of four or five minutes' duration. While 
going through the above procedure, drink two to 
four additional glasses of hot water. Step out of 
the water, put on a bath robe, wrap the body in a 
blanket and sit in a comfortable chair or go to bed 
until the perspiration has about ceased, but do not 
sit in a draught. Then rinse the body off quickly in 
clean, moderately warm water. If chilly, introduce 
hot water into the tub and stand in it while drying 
off. Rub the body well. After the sweating is over 
with, go to bed and remain there at least six hours. 

These are but a few pointers, but if given careful 
and intelligent consideration, and acted upon, they 
will prevent much suffering and many deaths. 

72 



DISEASE 

The key to good health is moderation and common 
sense. Be kind and considerate of your own body, 
and of other individuals as well, and you will be 
blessed with the greatest of all blessings good 

health - R. L. A. 



73 



CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
HEALTH HINTS 

Don't take health advice from friends and ac- 
quaintances. Acquire self-knowledge, learn your 
limitations and requirements, and act accordingly. 

No two people are alike; some need more food 
than others. What one eats is no criterion of what 
another should eat. There are general rules that 
can be followed by nearly all to advantage, but spe- 
cial cases require special care. 

The combining of incompatibles, eating all kinds 
of food at one meal, and overeating are the cause of 
more digestive troubles than anything else. 

Do not eat when in pain or when feeling ill in any 
way. Do not eat when hunger is absent. Be regular 
about meals. When traveling, do not have more 
than two meals a day, and if made uneasy by the mo- 
tion of trains or boats, avoid food until feeling well 
again. 

"Man's cures, like his daily bread, must be earned 
by the sweat of his brow, and if they are not, they 

74 



HEALTH HINTS 

become his bane." Disease is the penalty man pays 
for breaking health laws, and there is no forgive- 
ness without repentance and reform. Nature is im- 
partial, treating all alike. 

Eating more than three times a day is inviting 
disease and premature death. When not feeling tip- 
top, omit a meal and drink all the water, warm or 
cold, desired. Many people get along splendidly on 
two meals a day. It makes no difference whether 
the breakfast or the lunch is omitted. The benefit 
comes from not overburdening the body with a sur- 
plus amount of food. 

It is well to take a nap of from ten to thirty min- 
utes, but no more, in the middle of the day. A short 
walk with deep breathing in the open air is advis- 
able before and after the nap, as well as at other 

times. 

i 

Those who eat when they should not, or eat be- 
yond the requirements of the system, will be made 
ill by the best of foods. 

Dried and cured meats and fish should not be 
used when the fresh can be had; they are hard to di- 
gest. Those who habitually use cured, pickled, and 

75 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

preserved foods will sooner or later come to di- 
gestive grief. 

"Bread is the staff of life before twenty-five years 
of age, and after forty it is the staff of death." After 
the age of thirty-five or forty, the body does not re- 
quire as much building material as formerly. 

Avoid the habitual use of acids with decidedly 
starchy foods. Salads containing acid may be eaten 
liberally at a dinner consisting of meat and any kind 
of vegetables except dry beans, dry peas, tubers, and 
Hubbard squash. Starchy foods and acids should 
not be eaten in combination, for there is a strong 
tendency for fermentation to ensue, and such eating 
is conducive to formation of deposits in the system 
and hardening of the arteries, thus hastening phys- 
ical decay. In children it causes gastritis, tonsillitis, 
and various throat and nose troubles. An adult may 
live for years eating this combination and experience 
no evil consequences, so far as he knows, but by the 
time he is fifty or sixty years old often before 
he has developed some kind of disease due to degen- 
eration. Some die of kidney diseases; some of cere- 
bral or spinal hemorrhage, due to hardening of the 
blood-vessels ; others have limy deposits in the valves 
of the heart. 



HEALTH HINTS 

Salt should be used sparingly, the less the better. 
It has a tendency to harden the tissues. Do not have 
food salted or seasoned in any manner before serv- 
ing, if it can be avoided. Sweet or unsalted butter 
is the best. 

Avoid iced or ice-cold water. If no other kind of 
water is obtainable, be very deliberate in drinking 
it so that it will be warmed in the mouth to prevent 
chilling the stomach. 

Do not worry about being thin. If a person feels 
well he will eventually be as heavy as he should be. 
It is easy to put on weight by increasing the intake of 
starchy food, but those who overeat on starches do 
so at the expense of health. Starch is the food that 
produces weight, but it is also the food that keeps 
people thin. The explanation of this seemingly par- 
adoxical statement is that when starch is eaten in ex- 
cess of digestive and assimilative power, it ferments 
and then the more people eat the thinner they be- 
come. 

When in doubt whether to eat or not to eat, be on 
the safe side and miss a meal. 

Foods are not taken for the purpose of curing ills, 
77 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

on the order of drug medication. Foods do not 
cure, but they cause disease when eaten improperly. 

The object in prescribing a diet is to give foods 
that are compatible, with the elements well balanced. 
When such foods are eaten in moderation under 
proper circumstances health will be the result. Al- 
though there are many other causes of disease, our 
bad eating habits are at the bottom of the vast ma- 
jority of our ills, mental as well as physical. 

The real remedy for curing is physiological rest, 
or going without food when the system is complain- 
ing, until the bad feeling has passed away; then eat 
properly, but do not form the erroneous opinion that 
special foods or food combinations are curative. 

Many people feel that they must eat to keep up 
their strength so that they can accomplish a certain 
amount of work; eating when one should not eat 
forces a certain amount of stimulation, but the break- 
down is sure to come. 

A coated tongue is due to deranged digestion, fol- 
lowing bad eating habits; the same is true of bad 
taste in the mouth. Some people have such per- 

78 



HEALTH HINTS 

verted tastes that water is disagreeable; this is also 
due to abuse of the digestive organs. 

Always cleanse the mouth well in the morning be- 
fore swallowing anything. 

Take good care of the teeth. Do not use strong 
tooth pastes or powders. Brush the teeth with a 
medium soft brush; also brush the gums. Once a 
day use either castile soap or a mildly alkaline tooth 
paste. Have a first-class dentist examine the teeth 
twice a year as a precautionary measure. Cavities 
in the teeth harbor decaying particles of organic mat- 
ter and when the products of putrefaction are swal- 
lowed, they poison the body. 

Some people object to leading rational lives be- 
cause they think it will deprive them and their chil- 
dren of social pleasures. They have a right to abuse 
themselves until they are ill; they also have the priv- 
ilege of raising their children so that a large per cent 
of them die in infancy and childhood, and many 
others become physical wrecks, perverts, and idiots, 
while the most fortunate do not have dependable 
health. If parents would do their duty intelligently, 
it would not be long until asylums and jails would be 

79 



HEALTH THROUGH RATIONAL LIVING 

curiosities. We pay too great a price for our con- 
ventional pleasures. 

It has been believed since the dawn of history that 
drugs cure. This is not true. They can change the 
course of a disease, and they can and do kill pain. 
When people are ill, they need rest, which drugs pre- 
vent; drugs whip the tired body into abnormal activ- 
ity, or cause great depression. 

Chocolate and rich cream in excess are two ali- 
mentary substances which interfere with the func- 
tioning of the liver more quickly than anything else 
taken into the stomach; they cause liver engorge- 
ment. If the liver fails to act well, it is impossible 
to have good health. 

We are a part of nature and amenable to her laws. 
"Practice what you preach," or stop preaching. 



80 



UC SOUTHERN REGIONAL I 



