rti 



A^800?^^^3 



^ 




t 



^ 



Boston Public Library 

not write in this book or mark it with pen or 
Penalties for so doing are imposed by the 

■H Laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 

% 

hook^ tv^ issued to the borrower on the date 
vtped belocv. "" 



)i 



Recipes and Menus for Fifty 

as used in 

The School of Domestic Science 

of - 

The Boston Young Women's 
Christian Association 



Prepared by 
FRANCES LOWE SMITH 






WHITCOMB & BARROWS 
BOSTON 191 3 



Copyright 1 91 3 
By Whitcomb & Barrows 



• * • • • • 

• • • « • 



• V « • - • • 

« • t ' • • 

* » " • • • 



■ • • • 

•: :•: 

• • a • • 



I « w I. * » 



.<■• ••««•. 



PREFACE 

The object in publishing this collection of recipes and 
menus is twofold — to put them in a convenient and 
accessible form for our own graduates, who find them 
invaluable in their various fields of w^ork, and for others 
who need tried and definite recipes for use in small 
institutions. 

This is not a complete cook book, although it furnishes 
material for a sufficiently varied menu. The recipes are 
those used by students in the preparation of meals in the 
school-home kitchen, as distinct from the laboratory; 
and have been collected and adapted, during a period of 
eleven years, from various sources — from personal experi- 
ments, from the school laboratory recipes, from student- 
matrons, and from numerous cook books. 

The recipes are given just as used in the kitchen of the 
School of Domestic Science, but a word of explanation 
is necessary. Our students are women, living an indoor, 
semi-sedentary life, and are comparatively light eaters. 
The conditions also are such that it is possible to plan more 
closely as to quantities than is usually practicable else- 
where. For these reasons, the quantities given will some- 
times be insufficient for families of the same size; and 
again will be just right for smaller numbers — as, for 
instance, summer camps, boys' schools, or college halls. 

It is a pleasure to me to express my thanks for the hearty 
cooperation of principal and students in this undertaking, 
and for the invaluable help, inspiration, and encourage- 



IV PREFACE 

ment of those whose teachings and writings have made 
the work possible — to Miss Harriet Folger, my instructor 
in the School of Domestic Science; to Miss Mary Mac- 
Dermaid, the present instructor in cookery ; and to Miss 
Anna Barrows and Miss Fannie Merritt Farmer, authors 
and lecture-demonstrators. F. L. s. 



FOREWORD 

As I begin to write this brief foreword, several memory 
pictures come before me. 

I see the bending shoulders and anxious forehead of a 
student, who, having a few spare minutes, grudgingly 
spends them in the drudgery of copying recipes. But the 
recipes may be her future stock in trade, so there is no 
alternative. 

I am showing a visitor through the school. She is the 
able manager of a large restaurant and practiced efficiency 
engineering long before the term became common. We 
pass through the home kitchen and instantly her keen eye 
and quick hand are upon the open recipe box being used 
by some student. " Oh, splendid ! " she exclaims ; " how I 
wish these specific and complete directions could be in the 
hands of the many who need them !" 

I am sitting in my office. A recent graduate has come 
back to the school and is telling me of her first experi- 
ences. Engaged to teach in the high school of a small city, 
what was her surprise to be told upon arrival that she 
was also to superintend and to be responsible for the mid- 
day meal in the outdoor school of fifty anaemic children. 
''But I was equal to the situation. Miss Forehand," she 
said ; " I had copied the home recipes." 

So the book is published, that tired students may 
escape copying, that those who can use the recipes and 
menus may find them accessible, and that the tool wielded 
so many years by Miss Smith for the school's success may 
be put in permanent form. 

A. Josephine Forehand, Principal. 



CONTENTS 

Weights and Measures ix 

Fruits . . . . • i 

Bread ii 

Quick Doughs 22 

Cereals 38 

Beverages 49 

Eggs 53 

Soups 59 

Fish 71 

Meats 81 

Sauces for Meats and Fish .... 127 

Vegetables 133 

Cheese Dishes . 156 

Salads and Salad Dressings .... 158 

Pastry 168 

Hot Desserts 172 

Pudding Sauces 184 

Cold Desserts 189 

Frozen Desserts 197 

Cake and Cookies 202 

Cake Fillings and Frostings .... 212 

Menus 215 

Bibliography 237 

239 



Tndex 



le 

vii 



/ 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Correct measurements are absolutely essential to suc- 
cessful cookery, and these are possible to inexperienced 
cooks only by following certain definite rules. 

All measures in this book are level. Half-pint measur- 
ing cups, pint and quart measures, and teaspoons and 
tablespoons of regulation size are used. 

Flour is sifted before measuring, then sifted again with 
other dry ingredients except sugar. To measure dry in- 
gredients, fill measure rounding full with a spoon or scoop, 
without shaking, and level with a knife. To measurebutter 
and similar ingredients, pack spoon, cup, or other measure 
solidly, and level with a knife. 

Weights are more accurate, and in some cases more 
convenient, than measures, and there should be in every 
kitchen a dial scale of several pounds capacity, and in 
institutional kitchens a platform scale for meats and bulky 
provisions. 

Table of Weights and Measures 

=: I tablespoon 

^ I cup 

= I quart 

= I gallon 

=: I peck 

=: I bushel 

= I pound 

ix 



3 


teaspoons 


i6 


tablespoons 


4 


cups 


4 


quarts 


3 


quarts 


4 


pecks 


i6 


ounces 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



2 


tablespoons butter 


=z 


I ounce 


2 


cups butter or lard 


— 


I pound 


-2 


tablespoons sugar 


— 


I ounce 


2 


cups granulated sugar 


= 


I pound 


2| 


cups powdered sugar 


— 


I pound 


2| 


cups brown sugar 


— 


I pound 


4 


tablespoons flour 


— 


I ounce 


__4 


cups flour 


— 


I pound 


— 5i 


cups coffee 


— 


I pound 


2 


quarts tea 


— 


I pound 


8 


egg whites 


= 


I cup 


i6 


egg yolks 


— 


I cup 


10 


medium eggs without shell 


= 


I pound 


2 


cups chopped meat 


— 


I pound 


4 


cups cocoa 


— 


I pound 


3 


cups currants or raisins 


— 


I pound 


6o 


pounds potatoes 


— 


I bushel 


52 


pounds onions 


rz= 


I bushel 


24 


pounds string beans 


— 


I bushel 


56 


pounds tomatoes 


— 


I bushel 


55 


pounds turnips 


— 


I bushel 


54 


pounds sweet potatoes 


— 


I bushel 


45 


pounds parsnips 


= 


I bushel 


50 


pounds carrots 


— 


I bushel 


60 


pounds beets 


1^ 


I bushel 


60 


pounds beans 


rzz 


I bushel 


48 


pounds apples 


— 


I bushel 


196 


pounds 


= 


I barrel 



FRUITS 



Baked Pears 



I J pecks pears 2 quarts sugar 

if quarts water J teaspoon cloves 

Wash, halve, and core pears. Add sugar, water, and 
cloves, cover closely, and bake slowly several hours, or 
until tender. 

Stewed Prunes 

5 pounds prunes 5 cups sugar 

Wash prunes thoroughly, cover with cold water, and 
soak over night or longer. Cook in same water in double 
boiler until prunes are soft, adding more water if neces- 
sary. Sprinkle sugar over top, but do not stir. Serve 
cold. Less sugar may be used if for breakfast. 

Stewed Rhubarb 

10 pounds rhubarb 3 cups water 

2j quarts sugar 

Wash rhubarb, cut off imperfect or tough skin, and cut 
in one-inch pieces. Put in kettle with sugar and water, 
bring to boiling point, and cook slowly on range or in 
fireless cooker until tender. One hour or more will be 
required in cooker. 

Baked Rhubarb 

10 pounds rhubarb 3 quarts sugar 

Wash rhubarb and cut in inch pieces, removing tough 
or imperfect skin. Put in kettle with sugar, let stand an 
hour or so, then cook slowly in oven two or three hours. 



8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Stewed Raisins 
Wash six pounds raisins, cover with cold water, soak 
several hours, or over night, and stew gently until plump 
and tender. No sugar is needed. 

Orange Marmalade 
I dozen oranges 6 lemons 

8 quarts water Sugar 

Wash fruit and cut crosswise in very thin slices, remov- 
ing seeds. Add water and let stand twenty- four hours. 
P3oil fifteen minutes and let stand another twenty- four 
hours. To every quart of mixture add one quart gran- 
ulated sugar, boil thirty minutes, or until juice jellies 
slightly. Put in sterilized jars and seal, or cover with 
paraffine. 

Apple Marmalade 
6 pounds finely-chopped ij ozs. preserved ginger 

apple 6 pounds sugar 

h lemons — rind and juice 3 cups water 
Pare and core tart, juicy apples before weighing. Boil 
sugar and water together three minutes, add grated rind 
and juice of lemons, chopped ginger and apple, and cook 
slowly two hours, or until fruit is clear. This may be 
cooked in fireless cooker. 

Spiced Grapes 

8 pounds Concord grapes 4 teaspoons each cloves, 
8 pounds sugar cinnamon, nutmeg, 

I J quarts vinegar and allspice 

Wash and stem grapes before weighing. Cook grapes 
and vinegar together until skins are tender, add sugar and 
spices, and cook until thick. ^CCo-^i^^ 



FRUITS 9 

Tomato Relish 

1 peck ripe tomatoes 2 teaspoons ground mace 

2 cups chopped celery 2 teaspoons cloves 

2 cups chopped onions 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

4 chopped red peppers 2 teaspoons black pepper 

3 cups sugar J pound celery seed 
I cup salt 3 pints vinegar 

Chop tomatoes finely, drain, and throw away juice. 
Mix ingredients well, and seal in sterilized jars. Keep in 
cold place, and relish will keep for months without cooking. 

Grape Catsup 

6 quarts Concord grapes 4 tablespoons allspice 

4 pounds brown sugar 4 tablespoons cinnamon 
I quart vinegar 4 tablespoons salt 

4 tablespoons cloves -J tablespoon cayenne 

Wash grapes and pick from stems before measuring. 
Cook until soft, rub through puree strainer, add other 
ingredients, and boil until of consistency of tomato catsup. 
Seal while hot. 

Apple Catsup 

10 pounds prepared apples 4 teaspoons mustard 

3 quarts water 3 tablespoons cinnamon 

I J quarts sugar 4 tablespoons salt 

3 teaspoons paprika 2 small grated onions 

4 teaspoons cloves 2 quarts cider vinegar 

Wash, quarter, and core sour apples. Add water, cook 
until soft and nearly dry, then rub through puree strainer. 
Add other ingredients and cook very slowly for three or 
four hours, or until mahogany red in color. Seal while 
hot. 



10 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Spiced Crab Apple Jelly 

I peck crab apples 3 quarts vinegar 

3 tablespoons cloves i quart water 

4 tablespoons stick Sugar 

cinnamon 

If vinegar is very strong, use two quarts vinegar and 
two quarts water. Tie spices separately in strong bags. 
Cook apples, vinegar, water, and spices together until soft, 
.strain. Add an equal amount of sugar, boil until it jellies. 



BREAD 13 

To Make Bread with Mixer 
Put into the bread mixer tlie sugar, salt, shortening, 
etc., then add hot Hquid. When cool add dissolved yeast 
and the flour, which should be measured very accurately, 
or weighed, using exactly six quarts or six pounds to two 
quarts of liquid. Turn mixer for five minutes or longer. 
In the morning, or when light, turn for five minutes. 
Shape into loaves, brush with melted butter, let rise again, 
bake sixty minutes or till done. 

Liquid Yeast 

4 medium-sized potatoes J cake dry yeast dissolved 
2 tablespoons salt in 

4 tablespoons sugar | cup lukewarm water 

2 quarts water 

Boil potatoes and mash fine ; add salt, sugar, and water 
in which potatoes were cooked, adding more water, if 
necessary, to make two quarts. When cool, add dissolved 
yeast. Keep in warm place till light, then in a cold place, 
if it is not to be used at once. Use this yeast in place of 
other liquid, in making bread. Bread made in this way 
rises quickly and is very tender and moist, although it 
becomes moldy more qqickly in hot weather than that 
made with dry yeast. 

White Bread 

I quart milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

I quart water 2 tablespoons salt 

I yeast cake dissolved in J cup shortening 

J cup lukewarm water 5i to 6 quarts flour 

Scald milk, add sugar, salt, shortening, and hot water, 
cool till lukewarm. Add dissolved yeast and flour gradu- 



14 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ally, beating hard at first. When stiff enough, take out on 
well-floured board and knead till smooth and springy. Put 
back into well-greased mixing pan, brush with melted 
shortening, let rise over night. In the morning shape into 
loaves, but do not put any flour on board. Brush with 
melted butter, let rise till double in bulk, bake sixty minutes 
in moderately hot oven. This quantity makes six large 
loaves. 

Potato Bread 

2 quarts boiling water i quart mashed potato 

2 tablespoons salt i yeast cake dissolved in 

4 tablespoons sugar J cup lukewarm water 

4 tablespoons shortening 5| to 6 quarts flour 

Mash hot boiled potato, or use cold mashed potato, put- 
ting it through the potato ricer if lumpy. Add boiling 
water, salt, sugar, and shortening. When lukewarm, add 
yeast and flour, beating well until stiff enough to knead. 
Let rise over night, put into well-greased tins, brush with 
melted butter, let rise till double in bulk, bake sixty minutes 
in moderately hot oven. 

Graham Bread 

I quart hot milk i yeast cake dissolved in 

f quart hot water ^ cup lukewarm water 

I cup molasses 3 quarts flour 

I I tablespoons salt Graham flour to knead 

Sift Graham flour, but mix bran with it again before 
measuring. Put molasses and salt into mixing pan, add 
liquid. W^hen cool add dissolved yeast and flour to knead. 
Let rise over night, shape into loaves, brush generously 
with melted butter. When risen to double its bulk, bake 
about sixty minutes in moderate oven. 



BREAD 15 

Entire Wheat Bread 

I quart scalded milk f cup sugar 

1 quart hot water i yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tablespoons salt J cup lukewarm water 
•J cup shortening i quart white flour 

5 quarts entire wheat flour 

Put sugar, salt, and shortening into mixing pan, add 
hot liquid and cool. Add yeast, white flour, and entire 
wheat flour. When smooth and elastic to touch, put into 
greased mixing pan, let rise over night. In morning shape 
into loaves, brush with melted butter, let rise to double its 
bulk, bake from fifty to sixty minutes in moderately hot 
oven. If dough is too soft to handle in morning, cut down 
well with knife and turn into bread tins without taking 
on to the bread board. 

Rye Bread 

I quart hot milk 4 tablespoons shortening 

1 quart hot water i yeast cake 

2 tablespoons salt 3 quarts white flour 
i^ cups brown sugar 3 quarts rye flour 

Dissolve yeast cake in one-fourth cup lukewarm water. 
Prepare and bake as for Entire Wheat Bread. 

Date Bread 

2 quarts warm wheat i yeast cake dissolved in 

mush J cup lukewarm water 

2 cups brow^n sugar 5 cups English walnut 
4 teaspoons salt meats 

^ cup melted shortening 5 cups stoned dates 



l6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut nuts and dates in pieces. Mix the first four ingredi- 
ents, add dissolved yeast and flour to knead. In the morn- 
ing, or after the first rising, knead the nuts and dates into 
the dough ; shape into loaves, let rise, bake from fifty to 
sixty minutes. 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 quarts boiling water 6 quarts flour 

I quart rolled oats i yeast cake 

I cup molasses 2 tablespoons salt 

Dissolve yeast in one- fourth cup cool water. Pour boil- 
ing water on rolled oats and let stand half an hour or 
longer. When lukewarm add molasses, salt, dissolved 
yeast, and flour. When smooth and elastic to touch, put 
to rise over night. In morning shape into loaves, or if very 
sticky, cut down well with knife and put into tins without 
taking on to the board. Brush with melted butter, let rise 
to double in bulk, bake sixty minutes or till done. 

Plain Rolls 

i-| pints scalded milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

I-J pints hot water 3 tablespoons shortening 

i^ yeast cakes dissolved in i tablespoon salt 

J cup cool water 4 to 4J quarts flour 

Put salt, sugar, and shortening into mixing pan, add hot 
liquids. When cool, add yeast and flour to knead as soft 
as can be handled. Let rise over night. In morning, if 
wanted for breakfast, shape at once, but if for luncheon, 
cut down dough and let rise again before shaping. Shape 
into small biscuits or finger rolls, place closely in greased 
pans, brush with melted butter, let rise till very light, bake 
from twelve to twenty minutes in hot oven. This quantity 
makes about one hundred medium-sized rolls. 



BREAD 17 

Parker House Rolls 

I J quarts scalded milk i tablespoon salt 

f cup shortening i^ yeast cakes 

^ cup sugar 4 to 4^ quarts flour 

Add sugar, salt, and shortening to milk. When luke- 
warm, add yeast which has been dissolved in one-fourth 
cup lukewarm water, and flour to knead as soft as can be 
handled. Let rise over night. In morning cut down and 
let rise again before shaping. If dough is light before it 
is time to shape rolls, it can be put in the refrigerator till 
wanted. Roll out one-third inch thick on an unfloured 
board, shape with biscuit cutter first dipped in flour. Dip 
handle of case knife in flour, and with it make crease 
through middle of each piece. Brush over one-half the 
piece with melted butter, fold edges together, pressing 
them tightly. Place in greased pan one inch apart, let rise 
till double in bulk, bake twelve to fifteen minutes in hot 
oven. Brush with melted butter before putting in to bake 
or when partly done. 

This same mixture may be shaped into biscuits, finger 
rolls, or clover leaf rolls. This quantity makes about one 
hundred rolls. 

Rusks 

ij quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

I-J cups shortening i yeast cake dissolved in 

I J cups sugar ^ cup lukewarm water 

6 eggs Flour to knead 

Add shortening, salt, and sugar to hot milk. When 
lukewarm, add beaten egg, yeast, and flour to make soft 
batter. Beat hard, add enough flour to knead, and let rise 
over night. In morning make into small biscuits, place 



1 8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

in pan so that they will touch each other, and let rise again. 
Before baking, make three parallel creases in top of each 
biscuit, brush with milk, sprinkle with sugar, bake in hot 
oven from twelve to twenty minutes, according to size. 

Raised Muffins 

f quart scalded milk 6 tablespoons shortening 

j quart water i tablespoon salt 

3 eggs I yeast cake 



cup sugar 3 quarts flour 



Cool milk and water, dissolve yeast in it, add beaten 
yolks, salt, sugar, and flour ; let rise over night. In morn- 
ing add melted shortening and stiffly-beaten whites. Fill 
muffin pans two-thirds full, let rise in warm place until 
full, and bake from thirty to forty-five minutes in hot oven. 
The muffins should be brown and crisp all over. This 
quantity makes about six dozen. 

English Muffins 

Use recipe for Raised Muffins. When mixture is light 
add melted shortening and whites beaten stiff. Put well- 
greased muffin rings on hot griddle, fill half full, cook 
slowly until well risen and slightly browned underneath, 
turn with pancake turner, and cook on other side. When 
cold, pull them apart and toast to a golden brown. Butter 
generously on the toasted side, reheat, and serve with 
Orange or Grapefruit Marmalade. 

Squash Rolls 

i^ quarts scalded milk i^ quarts sifted squash 

f cup shortening li yeast cakes dissolved in 

f cup sugar i cup cold water 

3 teaspoons salt 4 to 4J quarts flour 



BREAD 19 

Add salt, sugar, and shortening to hot milk ; when cool, 
add squash, yeast, and flour to make as soft a dough as 
can be handled. Knead till smooth, let rise over night, 
shape like ordinary rolls, let rise till double in bulk, and 
bake in hot oven. 

Potato Rolls 

4 to 4j quarts flour | cup sugar 

I -J quarts scalded milk i J quarts mashed potato 

I -J cups shortening ij yeast cakes dissolved in 

3 teaspoons salt J cup lukewarm water 

Add shortening, salt, potato, and sugar to hot milk. 
When cool, add yeast and flour to make batter. Beat well, 
then add flour to knead. In morning shape into small 
biscuits, place close together in well-greased pan, let rise 
till double in bulk, brush with melted butter, and bake 
twelve to twenty minutes in hot oven. These rolls may 
also be shaped like Parker House or Clover Leaf Rolls. 

Buns 

tablespoon cinnamon 
well-beaten eggs 
yeast cakes dissolved in 
cup lukewarm water 
cups currants or raisins 

Add shortening, salt, and sugar to scalded milk. When 
lukewarm, add yeast, eggs, fruit, and flour which has been 
sifted with cinnamon. Knead well, let rise over night. 
In morning shape into small biscuits, place one inch apart 
in wxll-greased pans, let rise to double in size, and bake in 
hot oven from twelve to twenty minutes. Brush with 
mixture of sugar and milk and put back in oven to dry. 



4 to 4j quarts flour 


I 


I J quarts scalded milk 


6 


I J cups shortening 


a 


3 teaspoons salt 


i 


I J cups sugar 


3 



20 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Hot Cross Buns 

Make same as Buns. When cool, make cross with frost- 
ing on top of each bun. 

Swedish Rolls 

ij quarts scalded milk i-| yeast cakes dissolved in 

f cup shortening J cup water 

^ cup sugar i-| cups sugar 

3 teaspoons salt 3 teaspoons cinnamon 

4 to 4j quarts flour 2 cups chopped raisins 

Mix first four ingredients, cool, then add yeast and flour 
to knead as soft as can be handled. In morning, or after 
first rising, roll to one-fourth inch thickness, spread gen- 
erously with melted butter. Mix sugar, cinnamon, and 
raisins, and spread evenly over dough; roll up like jelly 
roll and cut in three- fourths inch pieces. Place pieces close 
together in pan, flat side down, let rise till double in bulk, 
and bake in hot oven. When done, brush with white of 
egg, slightly beaten and diluted with one tablespoon water, 
and return to oven to dry egg. 

German Coffee Bread 

I J quarts scalded milk 3 eggs 

I J cups shortening i yeast cake dissolved in 

I cup sugar J cup lukewarm water 

2j teaspoons salt 3J quarts bread flour 

Add shortening, sugar, and salt to milk; when luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, well-beaten eggs, and 
flour. Beat well, cover, let rise over night. In morning, 
pour into well-greased, shallow pans to depth of one-half 
inch, let rise one hour in warm place. Before baking, brush 



BREAD 21 

with beaten egg and cover with following mixture : Melt 
one cup butter, add one and one-half cups sugar and five 
teaspoons cinnamon; when sugar is partly melted, add 
one-fourth cup flour. Bake thirty minutes, or till done, 
in rather hot oven. To serve, cut through crust, then 
break in squares, or pull apart with fork. 

Raised Doughnuts 

2 J quarts flour ij cups sugar 

2j cups scalded milk f cup melted butter 

5 eggs I J teaspoons salt 

I J teaspoons mace f yeast cake 

Dissolve yeast in scalded and cooled milk, stir in one 
quart bread flour, beat well, and let rise over night. In 
morning add beaten eggs, sugar, salt, mace, butter, and 
flour to knead as soft as can be handled — about one and 
one-half quarts. Let rise until double in bulk, which will 
require two or three hours. Take part of dough on floured 
board, pat and roll to three-fourths inch thickness. Cut 
in strips three- fourths inch wide. Twist and lengthen 
these, then shape into figure eight. Repeat, until all the 
dough is used. Let stand on board, closely covered, until 
light throughout. Fry in deep fat, drain, cool, and roll 
in powdered sugar. This makes seventy-five doughnuts of 
medium size. 



\ 



/ 



QUICK DOUGHS 

Baking Powder 

Sift together, seven times or more, the following in- 
gredients : five and five-eighths pounds cream of tartar, 
two and one-half pounds soda, and one and one-fourth 
pounds cornstarch. If ingredients are purchased in large 
quantities, it is much cheaper to make than to buy baking 
powder. 

Pop-overs 

3 quarts milk 12 eggs 

I tablespoon salt 3 quarts flour 

Mix salt with flour, add milk gradually, that mixture 
may not become lumpy. Add eggs which have been beaten 
until light, then beat mixture two minutes with Dover 
tgg beater. Fill hot, well-greased muffin pans three- 
fourths full, bake forty-five minutes or more in a moder- 
ately hot oven. Each pop-over should be double in size, 
and crisp and golden brown all over. If not cooked enough, 
they will not keep their shape, and will be soft and moist 
instead of dry and crisp. If the oven is too hot, they will 
burn on top before the sides are well crusted. This recipe 
makes six dozen large pop-overs. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts flour i tablespoon salt 

2I quarts sour milk 6 eggs 

4-J teaspoons soda 
22 



QUICK DOUGHS 23 

Sift soda, salt, and flour together. Stir milk into well- 
beaten yolks and add gradually to flour, then fold in beaten 
whites. If wanted thinner, add a little sweet milk. If the 
milk is very thick and sour, it is well to dilute it slightly 
with sweet milk. This amount of batter makes about one 
hundred cakes, allowing one and one-half tablespoons 
batter to each cake. Cook on hot griddle and serve at once. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts flour J cup shortening 
6 tablespoons baking i cup sugar 

powder 2 quarts milk 

4 teaspoons salt 4 eggs 

4 tablespoons molasses 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; beat eggs, add milk and 
molasses, and pour slowly on first mixture. Beat well, add 
shortening, cook at once on hot, well-greased griddle. 
Serve with maple, caramel, or brown sugar syrup. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

Add two or three cups cooked rice to Sweet or Sour 
Milk Griddle Cake mixture. Serve with syrup or shaved 
maple sugar. 

Waffles 

2 quarts thin, sweet cream 12 to 16 eggs 
8 tablespoons baking 4 teaspoons salt 

powder 4 quarts flour 

Mix dry ingredients. Beat yolks of eggs, add cream 
and dry ingredients, and fold in stiflly-beaten whites. 
Heat one side of waffle iron, turn, heat other side, and 



24 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

grease both sides thoroughly. Put tablespoonful of mix- 
ture in each compartment near center of iron, cover, and 
turn almost as soon as covered, cooking on the other 
side until brown. This quantity makes about twenty-five 
waffles. 





Plain 


Muffins 


2i 


quarts flour 


5 eggs 


1 


cup shortening 


f cup sugar 


5 


teaspoons salt 


ij quarts mixk 




6J tablespoons baking powder 



Mix and sift dry ingredients; add gradually milk, well- 
beaten eggs, and shortening. Put into well-greased muflin 
pans, filling them two-thirds full, or more. Bake thirty 
minutes, or till done, in moderate oven. This quantity 
makes fifty-five large mufii*^s. 



Cereal Muffins 

2^ quarts flour 3 cups cooked cereal 

il quarts milk 6J tablespoons baking 

5 eggs powder 

J cup shortening 5 teaspoons salt 

•J cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat eggs, add cereal^ 
and beat hard in order to get rid of lumps. Add milk 
slowly, then dry ingredients and melted shortening. Bake 
thirty minutes, or till done, in a moderate oven. 

The cereal may be put through a coarse sieve, or the 
potato ricer, before using. This quantity makes fifty-five 
large muffins. 



QUICK DOUGHS ^^ 



Graham or Entire Wheat Muffins 

2^ pints Graham flour 2j pints milk 
2| pints \,hite flour 5 eggs 

5 teaspoons salt 6J tablespoons baking 

I cup sugar powder 

5 tablespoons shortening 

Sift flour, saving bran from Graham to use in Bran 
Cakes. Mix and sift dry ingredients together; add milk 
gradually, then well-beaten eggs and melted shortening. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, or till done. This 
recipe makes fifty-five large mufiins. 

Rye Muffins are made in same way, except that rye flour 
is substituted for Graham. 

Bran Cakes 

1 quart flour 4 teaspoons soda 

2 quarts bran ij quarts milk 

3 teaspoons srlt 2 cups molasses 

Sift flour, salt, and soda togetht* , add bran and mix 
thoroughly, then add nolasses and milk. Beat well and 
bake in muffin pans in moderate oven thirty minutes, or 
till done. This recipe makes about fifty large ones. 

Graham Gems 

2-J pints Graham flour 5 tablespoons shortening 

2^ pints white flour 5 tablespoons baking 

5 teaspoons salt powder 

I cup sugar 2J pints sour milk slightly 

2-J teaspoons soda thickened 

5 eggs 



26 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

If sour milk is very thick and sour, dilute with a little 
sweet milk before using. Sift Graham flour, then mix the 
bran with it again before measuring; or bran can be saved 
to use for Bran Cakes. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add 
milk gradually, well-beaten eggs, and melted shortening. 
Fill gem pans half full, bake twenty minutes, or till done, 
in moderate oven. 

Batter Bread 



I J quarts white corn meal i J quarts cooked rice, 
I J quarts boiling water hominy,or other cereal 

2j teaspoons salt 3J tablespoons baking 



quarts milk powder 



12 to 15 eggs 

Pour boiling water on corn meal, add cereal, well-beaten 
eggs, baking powder mixed with salt, and milk. Bake in 
enamel-lined or earthen dishes, in moderate oven, forty- 
five minutes, or until firm like custard. Serve in dishes 
in which it is baked. 

Corn Bread \ 

I J quarts yellow corn meal < tablespoons baking 

if quarts white flour powder 

i-| cups sugar i^ quarts milk 

I tablespoon salt 6 eggs 

6 tablespoons shortening 

' Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk, well-beaten 
eggs, and melted shortening. Pour into well-greased 
shallow pans to depth of one inch, bake thirty minutes, or 
till done, in moderately hot oven. 

Cold corn bread is very nice split, toasted, buttered, and 
served very hot. 



QUICK DOUGHS 2/ 

Golden Corn Cakes 

i cup shortening 2 cups sugar ** 

I -J tablespoons salt i quart milk 

i^ tablespoons soda I quart yellow corn meal 

2f tablespoons cream of i-J quarts flour 

tartar 8 eggs 

Mix as for Corn Bread. Fill well-greased muffin pans 
half full, bake in moderately hot oven twenty minutes, or 
till done. 

Quick Nut Bread 

I J quarts corn meal 2^ cups brown sugar 

2-J quarts Graham flour 3^ tablespoons soda 
I J quarts pastry flour 4 teaspoons salt 

2j cups molasses 2J cups chopped walnuts 

I J quarts milk JL^^uA^ 

Mix dry ingredients, add molasses and milk, beat well, 
add nuts, bake in shallow loaves, in moderate oven, forty- 
five minutes, or till done. 

Blueberry Muffins 

I cup shortening 5 tablespoons baking 

I J cups sugar powder 

4 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

2f quarts flour 4 cups milk 

4 cups berries 

Cream shortening and sugar together, add well-beaten 
eggs and milk. Mix one cup flour with berries. Sift re- 
mainder of flour with salt and baking powder and add to 
first mixture. Beat well, then stir in berries. Canned 



28 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

berries may be used by straining off liquid before mixing 
with flour. Bake thirty minutes, or till done, in moder- 
ately hot oven. This recipe makes fifty-five mufiins of 
medium size. 

Boston Brown Bread 

I quart corn meal 2 cups molasses 

I quart Graham flour 4 teaspoons salt 

I quart entire wheat or rye 2 quarts sour milk 
2 tablespoons soda 

If sweet milk is used, add two and two-thirds table- 
spoons cream of tartar. Mix and sift dry ingredients 
together; add milk and molasses, beat thoroughly. Fill 
well-greased molds two-thirds full, cover and steam three 
and one-half hours. If not used the same day, steam an 
hour before using. Send to table in covered dishes or 
wrapped in napkins. Raisins may be added if desired. 

Sally Lunn 

24 quarts flour ij ctt^ milk ^t;£^'-^ 

5 teaspoons salt 10 eggs 

5 tablespoons baking 5 tablespoons melted 

powder shortening 

I cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add beaten yolks, short- 
ening, and milk. Beat well, cut and fold in stiffly-beaten 
whites. Pour into shallow cake pans to depth of one inch, 
bake in moderate oven forty minutes, or till done. 

To serve, cut through crust into squares, then break 
apart. 



QUICK DOUGHS 29 

Drop Biscuit 

3 quarts flour | cup shortening 

4i to 5 cups milk or 8 tablespoons baking 

milk and water powder 

2 tablespoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Work in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add liquid gradually, mixing with knife 
to soft dough that can be dropped from spoon without 
spreading. Drop by spoonfuls on well-greased pans, one- 
half inch apart. Bake eight minutes in hot oven. 

Rocks 

Use recipe for Drop Biscuit. Before baking, brush with 
milk, then sprinkle generously with granulated sugar and 
cinnamon. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 

4j cups milk or milk 8 tablespoons baking 

and water powder 

f cup shortening 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together, then cut 
or rub in shortening. Add milk gradually, mixing with 
knife to as soft a dough as can be handled. Flour center 
of board generously, drop dough on it, pat it with well- 
floured hands until it is floured all over, then pat or roll 
to three- fourths inch thickness. Cut in rounds, place close 
together in well-greased pans, bake from fifteen to twenty 
minutes in hot oven. Time of baking depends upon size 
and thickness. All ingredients should be cold. Handle as 
little and as lightly as possible, and avoid working in more 
flour. 



30 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Entire Wheat Biscuit (Sour Milk) 

3 quarts entire wheat 4-| cups sour milk 

flour 4 tablespoons baking 

1 cup shortening powder 

2 tablespoons salt 2j teaspoons soda 

f cup sugar 

The milk should be slightly thickened, but if very thick 
and sour, dilute with a little water or sweet milk. Mix 
and sift dry ingredients together, rub in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add milk, mixing with knife to soft dough. 
It should be as soft as can be handled ; if too stiff, add a 
little sweet milk. Roll out from one-half to one inch in 
thickness, according to taste, cut in rounds, place close 
together in well-greased pans, bake in hot oven from ten 
to twenty minutes. 

Entire Wheat Biscuit (Sweet Milk) 

Use recipe for Entire Wheat Biscuit with sour milk, 
using sweet milk instead of sour, omitting soda, and using 
eight tablespoons baking powder. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 
4-J cups milk or milk and 8 tablespoons baking 

water mixed powder 

J cup shortening 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit. Roll to one-fourth 
inch thickness, brush generously with melted butter, spread 
with three cups brown sugar mixed with three tablespoons 
cinnamon. Roll up like jelly roll, cut in three-fourths inch 



QUICK DOUGHS 3 1 

pieces, place pieces close together in well-greased pans, 
flat side down. Bake fifteen to twenty minutes in hot 
oven. 

Doughnuts (Sweet Milk) 



2 cups sugar 


4 teaspoons cream of tartar 


5 tablespoons butter 


2 teaspoons soda 


4 eggs 


•J teaspoon cinnamon 


2 cups milk 


■J teaspoon nutmeg 


3 teaspoons salt 


Flour to roll 



Beat eggs, add sugar, melted butter, milk, and four 
cups flour which has been sifted with dry ingredients, 
then enough more flour to handle, keeping dough as soft 
as possible. Roll only a small part at a time, and be care- 
ful not to work in more flour. Do not knead dough more 
than absolutely necessary. Roll about three-fourths inch 
thick, cut, fry in deep fat, drain on brow^n paper. Roll 
in granulated or powdered sugar while still warm. 

Doughnuts (Sour Milk) 

2 cups sugar 3 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons butter i teaspoon soda 

4 eggs 2 tablespoons baking 

J teaspoon nutmeg powder 

■J teaspoon cinnamon 2 cups sour milk 

Flour to roll 

Mix and fry as Doughnuts with sweet milk. These 
recipes make about seventy-five doughnuts of medium 
size. 



32 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Rye Drop Cakes 

3 eggs 3 teaspoons soda 

I cup sugar 3 cups rye flour 

3 cups sour milk 3 cups flour 

I J teaspoons salt 

Sift dry ingredients together ; add milk and well-beaten 
eggs, and beat well. Drop by teaspoonfuls into hot fat, 
fry to a golden brown, drain on brown paper. Serve with 
maple syrup. 

Fritter Batter 

5J cups flour I teaspoon salt 

2f tablespoons baking 2f cups milk 

powder 4 eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually and 
eggs well beaten. 

Apple Fritters 

Pare, core, and cut eight tart apples in eighths, then cut 
eighths in slices, and stir into Fritter Batter. Drop by 
spoonfuls into hot fat, fry until brown, drain, and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Serve hot. 

Fresh peaches or pears may be used in same way. 
Canned fruits may be used after draining off syrup. 

Rice Fritters 

3 cups cooked rice 6 eggs 

i^ quarts flour 3 tablespoons baking 

3 cups milk powder 

3 teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add cereal, milk, and eggs 
vrell beaten. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat, fry till 



QUICK DOUGHS 33 

brown, and drain on brown paper. Serve with meats or 
with sweet sauce for dessert. 



Hominy Fritters 

i^ quarts cooked hominy 6 eggs 
I -J quarts flour 2 tablespoons baking 

3 cups milk powder 

3 teaspoons salt 

Mix hominy with milk until smooth, adding milk a little 
at a time. Then add flour which has been sifted with dry 
ingredients and well-beaten eggs. Drop by small spoon- 
fuls into hot fat, fry till brown. If batter is too soft, 
add a little more flour. Serve with meats, or dust with 
powdered sugar and serve with liquid sauce for dessert. 

Hygienic or Dry Toast 

Cut stale bread in half slices, as thin as can be handled 
without breaking. Toast quickly to a uniform golden 
brown on each side, in broiler or over coals. It must be 
watched very closely to prevent burning, and any burned 
parts should be scraped off with a sharp knife. Put in 
warm (not hot) oven until well dried throughout. The 
Aladdin oven is best for this purpose. If gas oven is used, 
heat oven moderately, then turn off gas. Toast may be 
buttered, if desired, before sending to table. Keep hot. 

Brown Toast 

Cut stale Graham or oatmeal bread in thin half slices ; 
place on edge, in rows, in dripping pans, put in warm 
(not hot) oven until well dried. The more slowly it dries, 



34 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

the better it is. This toast is not buttered before sending 
to table. Moist or close-grained bread is not suitable for 
this toast. 



Crumbs 

Crusts and broken pieces of bread not suitable for 
croutons should be dried. With sharp knife cut off any 
dark brown or burned parts, then cut or break into small 
pieces and dry without browning. These dried pieces may 
be used for bread puddings, scalloped cheese, stuffing, etc., 
allowing one cup of small dried pieces as the equivalent 
of one cup of stale crumbs. To dry these pieces, place in 
dripping pan and put into slow oven that will dry with- 
out browning them, or keep in warming oven until dry. 
When perfectly dry, they can be put through meat chopper, 
if fine crumbs are Avanted. 

Keep crumbs in one receptacle and small pieces in 
another. Use fine dried crumbs for croquettes, coarse 
crumbs for stuffing. 

Buttered Crumbs 

Melt one-half cup butter over hot water, add one quart 
stale, undried crumbs, and stir until well mixed. Use 
instead of dried crumbs for scalloped dishes. 

Croutons 

'Use stale bread, utilizing broken slices, ends of loaves, 
etc., for this purpose. Cut into half-inch dice, toast in 
moderate oven until a uniform golden brown. Serve with 
soup. 



QUICK DOUGHS 35 

German or French Toast 

12 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

4 cups milk -J cup sugar 

Beat eggs, add salt, sugar, and milk. Soak slices of 
stale bread in mixture until soft. Cook on hot, well- 
buttered griddle ; brown one side, turn and brown other 
side. Be very careful not to burn toast. This quantity is 
sufficient for fifty or sixty large half slices. Serve for 
breakfast or luncheon with marmalade, jelly, or syrup. 

Cream Toast 

Make four quarts of White Sauce II. Make one hun- 
dred half slices of toast. The bread should be well browned 
and quite dry, but never burned. If it is burned, scrape 
off that part with sharp knife. Dip toast in hot water, 
arrange on hot platters, pour White Sauce over it, being 
careful to have each slice well covered. 

If there is time, a better way is to dip toast in cold water, 
then reheat in oven before arranging on platters. Cold 
water prevents the slight sogginess which hot water gives. 
If bread is very tender and flaky, dipping in water may 
be omitted entirely. 

Serve with Orange Marmalade, Baked Bananas, or 
Baked Apples. 

Milk Toast 
Heat five quarts milk in double boiler, season with one 
cup butter, four teaspoons or more salt. Make one hun- 
dred half slices of nicely browned and well-dried toast. 
Arrange in deep dishes, pour hot milk over toast, cover, 
and send to table at once. The butter and one pint of milk 
may be omitted and a pint of heavy cream used instead. 
Serve with Grape Jelly. 



36 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Tomato Cream Toast 

4 quarts stewed tomatoes -J cup sugar 
, if cups butter I tablespoon salt 

I J cups flour I teaspoon paprika 

Put tomatoes through strainer; heat to boiling point. 
Melt butter in inner part of large double boiler ; when hot, 
stir in flour. When smooth, add hot tomato, stir well, and 
let cook from twenty to thirty minutes in double boiler. 
Season ; serve on well-toasted bread which has been dipped 
in water. If desired, one- fourth additional cup of flour 
may be used for thickening, and just before serving a pint 
of thick cream added. This quantity of sauce is sufficient 
for fifty slices or one hundred half slices toast. 

Baked Tomato Toast 

Make sauce and toast as above. Arrange layers of toast 
in buttered enamel or earthen baking dishes, alternating 
with tomato sauce. Pour remainder of sauce over top, 
cover dishes, and put in oven for ten minutes. Send to 
tables in dishes. 

Oysters and Celery on Toast 

3 quarts oysters 2 quarts or more milk 

3 quarts celery 2 cups butter 

2 quarts water 2 cups flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut celery in inch pieces, add water and cook one hour, 
or until soft ; drain well. 

Alelt butter, add flour, stir till smooth; add water in 
which celery was cooked, and enough milk to make four 



QUICK DOUGHS 37 

quarts liquid; stir till smooth, add celery, cook thirty 
minutes in double boiler. Season to taste. 

Pick over oysters, removing any bits of shell ; wash and 
drain. Add to sauce and cook until oysters are plump 
and gills curled. Serve on well-toasted bread which has 
been dipped in salted water. 

Cinnamon Toast 

Toast half slices of stale white bread to a uniform 
golden brown ; sprinkle with mixture of granulated sugar 
and cinnamon, reheat, and serve at once. 

Savory Toast 

5 or 6 cans tomato soup 2-J tablespoons salt 
2 quarts water 4 tablespoons butter 

I cup chopped onion 8 eggs 

5 tablespoons flour 3 tablespoons French 

I teaspoon cayenne mustard 

I pound cheese 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft and yellow, add 
flour mixed with salt and cayenne, and stir until smooth. 
Add hot tomato and water, French mustard, and grated 
cheese, and cook in double boiler until smooth and thick- 
ened slightly, then add to well-beaten eggs, stirring con- 
stantly, and cook in double boiler until thickened. Serve 
on moistened half sHces of toast. 



CEREALS 

Methods of Cooking 
In double h oiler: 

Have the outside of the double boiler a little more than 
half full of boiling water. Put into the inside part the 
required amount of boiling water and the salt. Place the 
inside of double boiler directly on the stove, and as soon 
as the water boils hard stir in the cereal slowly, trying 
not to stop the boiling of the water. Boil five minutes, or 
less, if the cereal thickens so much that there is danger 
of its sticking to the bottom of the boiler. If a flaked 
cereal, stir with a fork to avoid breaking flakes. If a 
granulated cereal, use a wooden or heavy iron spoon. 
When it has boiled sufficiently, put the boiler into outside 
part for the remainder of the required time. 
In fireless cooker: 

Measure the required amount of water into the fireless 
cooker kettle. When boiling, add salt, stir in the cereal 
slowly, boil one minute, or until slightly thickened ; cover, 
place in the cooker, using one radiator. If cereal is for 
breakfast, prepare the night before and leave in cooker all 
night. The coarse cereals should always be cooked at least 
four hours. 

To heat the radiator : Place on stove or range, with the 
gas turned low at first, so as to heat gradually. As soon 
as hissing hot, place in proper compartment, put in the 
tightly-covered kettle, and fasten down cover. 

38 



CEREALS 



39 



Table for Cooking Cereals 



Kind Q 


UANTITY 


Water 


Salt 


Time 




Quarts 


Quarts 


Tablespoons 




Rolled Oats 


2i 


5 


3 


I hour 


Quaker Rolled Oats 


2J 


5 


3 


I hour 


Pettijohn's 


34 


5 


4 


45 minutes 


Wheatena 










Wheat Meal 










Farina 


>il 


6 


2 


I hour 


Cream of Wheat 










Malt Breakfast Food ^ 










Rice 


2 


6 


2 


45 minutes 


Hominy 


li 


6 


2 


2 hours 


Cracked Wheat ^ 










Corn Meal I 


n 


6 


2 


3 to 4 hours 


Scotch Oatmeal 











Methods of Serving 

Serve plain with sugar and cream or milk. In hot 
weather, cereal may be molded and served cold. 

Serve with fruit, such as baked apples, sliced bananas, 
fresh or stewed peaches ; stewed prunes, raisins, or figs ; 
or dates, washed, stoned, and cut in pieces. 

Serve with chopped English walnuts sprinkled over the 
top of each serving. 



Fried Mushes 

Corn meal, oatmeal, hominy, or other mushes left from 
breakfast, may be packed in greased pans of any desired 
shape, to mold for frying. If cooked expressly to fry, use 
less water in cooking. 



40 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut molded cereal in one-third inch slices, dip them in 
flour, and saute. Be very careful not to burn them. If 
less water is used in cooking, it is not necessary to dip 
slices in flour. Serve with maple or caramel syrup. 

Boiled Rice 

2 quarts rice 14 quarts w^ater 

6 tablespoons salt 

Pick over and wash rice thoroughly. x'Vdd it gradually 
to boiling salted water, boil thirty minutes, or until soft, 
but be sure not to overcook. Drain rice in coarse strainer, 
rinse with hot water, turn lightly and carefully into dishes 
as fast as drained. Cover with cheesecloth and keep hot 
on stove or in oven. Save rice water for soup making. 

Creamed Rice 

I J quarts rice 2 quarts milk ^ 

f cup butter 2 teaspoons salt 

f cup flour ^ teaspoon paprika 

Cook as for Boiled Rice. Melt butter, add flour, stir 
until smooth, add hot milk, stirring hard until free from 
lumps. Cook thirty minutes in double boiler, stirring 
occasionally; add salt and pepper, stir in rice carefully, 
serve as soon as well heated. Cold boiled rice may be 
utilized in this way. Serve as vegetable or luncheon dish. 

Spanish Rice 

5 cups rice i sweet red pepper 

I J pounds salt pork 2 small green peppers 

2 medium onions 2 quarts strained tomato. 
Salt to taste or part stock 



e 



CEREALS 41 

Wash rice in cold water, rubbing grains between the 
hands until water is clear. Add rice slowly to ten quarts 
boiling water, parboil ten minutes, drain. 

Chop salt pork, cook in oven in frying pan until fat is 
tried out, but do not let it get brown. Add chopped onion 
and seeded and chopped peppers, and fry for a few 
minutes, or till slightly yellowed. Put all ingredients into 
double boiler, add strained tomato, and cook thirty minutes, 
or until rice is soft, but not mushy. 

Curried Rice 

I J quarts rice 2 tablespoons curry powder 

I-J cups butter 2 tablespoons or more salt 

i-J cups finely-chopped 2 quarts boiling water 

onion 2j quarts hot milk 

Heat milk in large double boiler. Cook onion in butter 
tmtil soft and light yellow, add well- washed rice, and stir 
until butter is absorbed ; add curry, salt, and boiling water. 
Cook over fire for five minutes, then turn into double 
boiler with hot milk and cook thirty minutes, or until rice 
is soft, but not broken. Serve in border, with green peas 
in center. This is a good luncheon dish. 

Rice with Tomato 

To six quarts Boiled Rice add two quarts Plain Tomato 
Sauce. Mix lightly with a fork, so as not to mash the 
grains. Serve as a vegetable. 

Rice with Cheese 

Mix Boiled Rice lightly with grated cheese, pile in dish, 
sprinkle with grated cheese. Serve as a vegetable. 



42 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Turkish Pilaf 

3 quarts tomato ij quarts rice 

4 onions 2^ tablespoons salt 
8 sprigs parsley 2 cups butter 

12 peppercorns J teaspoon pepper 

1 6 cloves I quart stock or water 

Cook first five ingredients together five minutes, strain ; 
there should be three quarts. Wash rice, parboil five 
minutes, drain. Put into double boiler, add tomato, stock, 
salt, pepper, and butter in small bits. Cook forty-five 
minutes, or until rice is soft. Do not stir. Serve as a 
border for Curry of Mutton. 

Gnocchi 

4 quarts milk I pound or more of 

2 cups butter English dairy cheese 

2 cups flour Cold cereal 

Make a White Sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, 
following directions for White Sauces. Season with four 
teaspoons salt and add to it part of the grated cheese. 
Mold cereal in very small individual molds, or cut it in 
small pieces ; arrange in earthen or enamel baking dishes ; 
they should not be more than half full. Pour sauce over 
cereal, sprinkle with cheese, bake about twenty minutes. 
Serve for luncheon. 

Baked Hominy 

I quart hominy 5 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts milk 8 eggs 

Heat milk in double boiler; when scalding hot add 
hominy, having washed it in several waters. Stir for a 



CEREALS 43 

few minutes, then let it cook for one or two hours. When 
lukewarm, add well-beaten eggs and salt. Beat vigorously, 
turn into buttered baking dishes, and bake twenty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. Serve as a vegetable or as a 
luncheon dish. 

Baltimore Samp 

I J quarts samp 2^ quarts milk 

I cup butter 2j teaspoons salt 

1 cup flour 4 or 5 cups grated cheese 

Wash samp well, soak all night in six quarts water, then 
bring to boiling point and cook six or eight hours in fire- 
less cooker. The samp should be quite thick when done. 
Make white sauce of butter, flour, milk, and salt, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Add cheese, stirring 
sauce until cheese is melted, then add samp. Serve as a 
vegetable or as a luncheon dish. 

Boiled Macaroni 

Break macaroni in inch pieces. For two quarts of 
macaroni have ten quarts or more boiling water, to which 
five tablespoons salt have been added. Put in macaroni 
and boil for thirty minutes, or until soft ; drain in colander, 
pour over it cold water to prevent pieces adhering, drain, 
and it is ready for use in any of the following recipes. 
Macaroni is much cheaper when purchased in twenty-five 
or fifty-pound boxes, instead of in pound packages. 

Creamed Macaroni 

2 quarts macaroni 4 teaspoons salt 
i^ cups butter -J teaspoon paprika 
I J cups flour 4 quarts milk 



44 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Boil macaroni as above. Make a white sauce of the 
butter, flour, milk, and seasonings, following directions 
for White Sauces. Reheat macaroni in sauce, keeping it 
over hot water while it heats. Serve as a vegetable or as 
a luncheon dish. 

Macaroni w^ith Cheese 

2 quarts macaroni 4 teaspoons salt 

broken in pieces -J teaspoon paprika 

I -J cups butter 4 quarts milk 

1 1 cups flour 6 cups chopped cheese 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. , Make a white sauce of 
the butter, flour, milk, and seasonings, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Dissolve chopped or grated cheese 
in sauce. Put macaroni in baking dishes, pour over the 
sauce, lifting macaroni with fork to distribute it evenly. 
Cover with thin layer of buttered crumbs, using three cups 
stale crumbs and one-half cup butter. Do not use dried 
crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



Macaroni with Peanut Butter 

2 quarts macaroni 2j cups peanut butter or 

4 quarts White Sauce I 2 o^e-and-one-half lb. jars 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Dissolve peanut butter 
in sauce while cooking in double boiler. Put macaroni in 
baking dishes, pour over the sauce, lifting macaroni with 
fork, in order to distribute it evenly. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. See Buttered 
Crumbs. 





CEREALS 45 


Itali 


ian 


Macaroni 


2 quarts macaroni 




2 cups chopped mild green 


4 tablespoons salt 




pepper 


i^ cups bacon fat 




2j cups chopped onion 


ij cups flour 




'4 quarts strained tomato 



I pound cheese, if desired 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Cook onion and pepper 
in bacon fat until soft, but not brown. Add flour, stir until 
smooth, add hot tomato, and stir until it boils. Add salt 
and macaroni, reheat over hot water to prevent burning, 
and serve at once. 

Or put macaroni into earthen or enamel baking dishes, 
sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake until cheese is melted 
and slightly browned. 



Creole Spaghetti 

I -J quarts spaghetti I tablespoon salt 

3 quarts canned tomato I-J cups butter 

3 cups chopped onion f cup flour 

6 pounds Hamburg steak 3 cups grated cheese 

Cook spaghetti as for Boiled Macaroni. Strain tomato 
and bring to boiling point. Slightly brown onion in butter, 
add flour and hot tomato, stirring constantly until smooth 
and boiled; or turn into double boiler and cook thirty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir steak in hot frying 
pan until slightly brown, then turn into sauce, add spa- 
ghetti and cheese. The cheese may be omitted. 



46 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Macaroni a la Milanaise 

2 quarts macaroni broken 5 bay leaves 

in inch pieces 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts corned beef or 2 quarts brown stock 

ham in small pieces i^ cups butter 

2 quarts strained tomato i onion chopped fine 

3 teaspoons peppercorns i-J cups flour 

Cook macaroni as in Boiled Macaroni. Cook tomatoes, 
peppercorns, bay leaves, and sugar together ten minutes ; 
strain. Melt butter, add onion, cook until soft, then stir 
in flour. Add stock and tomato, stirring all the time until 
it boils. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Water may 
be used instead of stock by dissolving in it enough beef 
extract to flavor it delicately. Put meat and macaroni 
into baking dishes, pour over the sauce, and bake twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 

Reheat Boiled Macaroni in Plain or Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce, allowing one quart sauce to three quarts 
cooked macaroni. 

Macaroni with Chicken 

4 quarts chicken stock 2 quarts macaroni 

I J cups butter i quart cold chicken or 

i^ cups flour veal 

Salt to taste Grated cheese 

J teaspoon pepper 

Cook macaroni as for Boiled Macaroni. Cut chicken in 
small dice. Melt butter, add flour, stir ; add hot stock, stir 



CEREALS 47 

until smooth and thickened. Add macaroni and chicken, 
turn into baking dishes, cover with buttered crumbs, and 
bake twenty minutes, or until brown. The proportion of 
macaroni and chicken may be varied to suit taste or con- 
venience. Pass grated cheese with it if desired. 



Macaroni with Eggs 

24 hard-cooked eggs ij cups butter 

i-J quarts macaroni i^ cups flour 

3 cups grated cheese 4 teaspoons salt 

4 quarts milk Paprika to taste 

Cook macaroni as for Boiled Macaroni. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, milk, and seasonings. Cut eggs 
in slices. Put layer of macaroni in bottom of buttered 
baking dishes, then sliced eggs, then another layer of 
macaroni, and over the whole pour white sauce in which 
cheese has been dissolved. Cover with buttered crumbs, 
using three cups soft, stale crumbs and one-half cup butter. 



Noodles with Cheese 

4 quarts noodles Salt to taste 

I or more pounds cheese J teaspoon pepper 

f cup butter i teaspoon paprika 

Cook noodles in plenty of salted water until soft, drain. 
Melt butter, add noodles, grated cheese, and seasonings. 
Cook slowly on back of range, or with gas turned low, 
until cheese is melted and butter absorbed. Serve as a 
vegetable or luncheon dish. Noodles may be purchased 
ready for use, or made as follows : 



48 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Noodles 

Beat four eggs slightly, add two teaspoons salt, and 
flour to make a stiff dough. Knead on slightly-floured 
board, roll as thin as paper, cover with towel, and let stand 
for twenty minutes. Cut in fancy shapes ; or roll the sheet 
of dough like jelly roll, and cut in thin slices, then unroll. 
Dry, and it is ready for use. 



BEVERAGES 

General Directions 

Wash and scald coffee and tea bags in clear water, dry 
in the open air if possible. They should be renewed often. 

Scald coffee and tea pots, and cheesecloth squares or 
bags, before using. Boil pots with sal soda water once 
in two weeks or oftener. 

Wash eggs before using and save the shells for settling" 
coffee. 

Breakfast Coffee 

Put four cups coffee in cheesecloth square or bag, and 
tie so as to leave plenty of room for coffee to swell. Put 
coffee, twelve or more crushed egg shells, and nine quarts 
cold water in coffee boiler ; let stand over night. In morn- 
ing bring slowly to a boil, boil from three to five minutes, 
turn in one cup cold water, and let stand until clear. 
Strain into coffee pots and bring again to boiling point 
before serving. Serve with cream or hot, rich milk. 

After-Dinner Coffee 

4j cups coffee 2 cups cold water 

3 eggs 4^ quarts boiling water 

Mix slightly beaten egg, crushed shell, and cold water 
with coffee, turn into coffee boiler, add boiling water, and 
stir thoroughly. Boil three to five minutes. Pour some 
into a cup to remove grounds from spout ; repeat if neces- 
sary. Add remaining cold water, let stand on back of 

49 



50 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

range until perfectly clear. Strain into coffee pots, bring 
again to boiling point, and serve at once. Serve in after- 
dinner coffee cups, with or without cut sugar. 

If very strong coffee is desired, use six cups coft'ee and 
four eggs. 

Tea I 

Put two tablespoons tea in scalded pot, pour on two 
quarts boiling water. Steep three to five minutes, strain, 
and serve. 

Tea II 
f cup tea 9 quarts boiling water 

Put tea in a square or bag of cheesecloth, tied so as to 
leave room for tea to swell. Put into scalded urn or pot, 
add boiling water, steep five or six minutes, remove bag. 
Or have water boiling in pot, immerse bag in boiling water, 
and let steep on back of range, as above. 

Iced Tea 

I J cups tea 6 quarts boiling water 

8 quarts cold water Ice 

Follow recipe for Tea II, letting tea steep six to eight 
minutes. Cool, add cold water, and serve from pitchers 
half full of ice. Serve with lemon. 

Bteakfast Cocoa 

I cup cocoa 3| quarts boiling water 

I pint lukewarm water 4 quarts hot milk 

Mix cocoa and lukewarm water until smooth, pour on 
boiling water, boil five minutes. Add to hot milk in double 
boiler, beat with Dover egg beater until foamy, to prevent 
scum forming, cook twenty to thirty minutes. 



BEVERAGES 5 I 

Left-over cocoa may be used in place of fresh liquid. 
Reheat it in double boiler with milk, and for each pint use 
one tablespoon less cocoa. 



Reception Cocoa 

i-| cups cocoa J teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar i quart boihng water 

I pint lukewarm water 8 quarts hot milk 

Scald milk. Mix cocoa, sugar, salt, and lukewarm 
water ; add boiling water and boil five minutes. Pour into 
hot milk, beat until foamy, keep hot in double boiler until 
ready to serve. Serve with whipped cream, using one 
quart heavy cream diluted wath one cup milk, and flavored 
with one tablespoon sugar and three-fourths teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Reception Chocolate 

1 pound chocolate ij pounds sugar 

2 quarts boiling water 8 quarts hot milk 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add boiling water, stir 
until smooth. Boil ten minutes, or cook one hour in double 
boiler, add sugar and one-fourth teaspoon salt. Turn into 
hot milk, beat until foamy, and serve with whipped cream. 

Lemonade 

30 to 36 lemons or 2 pounds sugar 

I J quarts lemon juice 9 quarts water 

Mix sugar and lemon juice, add cold water, and stir 
until dissolved. Put in a large piece of ice, and let stand 
thirty or forty minutes before serving. 



52 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fruit Punch 

1 pint grated pineapple i pint strawberry juice 

2 pounds sugar 8 lemons 

3 cups boiling water 6 oranges 

I pint hot tea 7 quarts cold water 

Cook pineapple, sugar, and boiling water together fifteen 
minutes, add tea and strain. When cold add fruit juice 
and cold water, adding ice a short time before serving. 
Maraschino or candied cherries, strawberries, or mint 
leaves may be used as garnish. This recipe makes about 
ten quarts. 



EGGS 

Soft-Cooked Eggs 

Have a large kettle of boiling water: three quarts for 
each dozen eggs and one extra quart for the kettle. Put 
eggs into an egg basket, let basket down into boiling water, 
cover closely, and turn off gas, or remove to back of range 
to prevent boiling, but keep water at a temperature of 
175° if possible. Cook from six to eight minutes if liked 
soft, forty to forty-five minutes if wanted hard. If several 
dozen eggs are to be cooked at once, it is sometimes neces- 
sary to use two smaller kettles and baskets, instead of one 
large one. If both hard and soft eggs are wanted at same 
time, it is easier to cook them in separate utensils. Hard- 
cooked eggs which are to be used in preparing other dishes 
should be plunged at once into cold water, when done, to 
prevent discoloration. 

Poached Eggs 

Have a large, shallow pan two-thirds full of boiling 
salted water, allowing one tablespoon salt to two quarts 
water. Break eggs into shallow dish and slip carefully 
into water, which should not be allowed to boil while eggs 
are cooking. The eggs should be covered with water. 
Cook until white is firm and there is a film over top ; 
remove with skimmer to pieces of buttered toast. One or 
two tablespoons of vinegar in the water helps to prevent 
the spreading of the whites. Egg poachers may be used 
instead of the shallow pans. 

53 / 



54 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Baked Eggs 

Butter egg shirrers or ramekins. Break an egg into 
each, season with salt and pepper, and bake in moderate 
oven until whites are firm. The dishes may be lined with 
grated cheese or chopped ham before putting in eggs. Or 
a spoonful of hot tomato sauce may be put over each egg 
before serving. 

Fried Eggs 

Put enough melted bacon or ham fat in frying pans to 
cover bottom to depth of half an inch or more. Break 
eggs into saucer or other shallow dish, slip into hot fat, 
dipping it over them until white is firm and there is a 
film over top. Keep fat at as low a temperature as possible. 
Remove with skimmer to platter. Serve alone or with 
bacon or ham. 



Poached Eggs with Minced Tongue 

3 quarts soup stock J cup minced onion 

I J cups butter 4 tablespoons tomato 
ij cups flour catsup 

2 or 3 quarts minced Salt and pepper to taste 

tongue Poached eggs 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft, turn in flour, and 
stir till smooth ; add stock and seasonings and stir until 
thickened. If stock is not very rich, add a little kitchen 
bouquet. Reheat minced tongue in this sauce. Arrange 
slices of toast on hot platters, pour over these the hot 
mixture, put a poached egg on each piece of toast, and 
serve at once. 



EGGS 55 

Poached Eggs with Cream Toast 

3 quarts rich milk 3 teaspoons salt 

I J cups butter Poached eggs 

I J cups flour Toast 

Make a sauce of first four ingredients, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Arrange moistened toast on hot 
platters, pour over it the sauce, place poached egg on each 
piece of toast. Serve at once. 

Cream Omelet 

2 cups butter 5 teaspoons salt 

2 cups flour J teaspoon pepper 

3 quarts milk 24 eggs 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. When cool, add salt 
and well-beaten yolks, then fold in the whites, which have 
been beaten until stiff. Put into six earthen or enamel 
baking dishes and cook about forty-five minutes in moder- 
ate oven. The omelet should be firm throughout and 
golden brown on top. Serve at once in the baking dishes. 

Bread Omelet 

48 eggs 6 teaspoons salt 

5 cups milk I teaspoon pepper 

5 cups stale bread crumbs | cup butter 

Use broken pieces and crusts of stale bread, cutting off 
any brown or burned parts of crusts. Soak over night in 
milk. In morning add beaten yolks and seasonings ; cut 
and fold in stiflly-beaten whites. Cook and serve as Cream 
Omelet. 



56 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Spanish Omelet 

Make Cream, Bread, or Plain Omelet, and serve with 
it Spanish Sauce. Spanish Sauce: Cook together, very 
slowly, one cup finely-chopped bacon, three-fourths cup 
each of finely-chopped onion and mild green pepper, until 
onion is soft and yellow. Add two quarts tomatoes and 
cook until moisture has nearly evaporated. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper. If desired, five tablespoons sliced 
mushrooms may also be added. 

Rice Omelet 

3 quarts cooked rice 3 tablespoons salt 

3 quarts warm milk -J teaspoon pepper 
f cup melted butter 4 dozen eggs 

Add melted butter, seasonings, and warm milk to rice ; 
mix well and add well-beaten eggs. Cook and serve as 
Cream Omelet. 

Eggs Scrambled v^ith Tomato 

4 dozen eggs i teaspoon paprika 
3 quarts strained tomato 2 cups butter 

5 tablespoons sugar -J cup minced onion 

4 teaspoons salt 

Fry butter and onion three minutes, add tomatoes and 
sugar, and simmer five minutes. Put slightly-beaten eggs 
in double boiler, add tomato. Cook over hot water until 
of creamy consistency, stirring and scraping from bottom 
of kettle as it thickens. It will probably require from thirty 
to thirty-five minutes. If ready too soon, keep over water 
which is below boiling point. 



EGGS 57 

Scrambled Eggs 

2 quarts milk i cup butter 

4 dozen eggs 2| tablespoons salt 

Heat milk and butter in double boiler. When hot, add 
well-beaten eggs and salt, and cook until it thickens, stir- 
ring and scraping the thickened mixture from the bottom 
and sides as fast as it forms. It requires from twenty-five 
to thirty minutes for it to thicken to a creamy consistency. 
If cooked too long, it will whey. Minced ham, shredded 
dried beef, or minced parsley may be added just before 
serving. 

Creamed Eggs 

4 quarts milk 4 teaspoons salt 

2 cups butter 48 hard-cooked eggs 

2 cups flour J teaspoon pepper 

Make a white sauce of the first three ingredients, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. Add salt and chopped 
whites to the sauce. Toast half slices of white bread, dip 
in salted water, put on platter, and cover with sauce. 
Strain yolks over the top, using a coarse strainer or a 
potato ricer. Put toast in oven a few minutes to reheat. 
Chopped ham may be added to sauce if desired. 

Curried Eggs 

4 quarts milk -J teaspoon pepper 

2 cups butter 5 or more teaspoons curry 

2 cups flour 48 hard-cooked eggs cut 

4 teaspoons salt in slices 

Make a white sauce of the first three ingredients. Mix 
salt, pepper, and curry together and add to sauce. Pile 



58 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

sliced eggs In center of platters, put a border of boiled or 
steamed rice around outside, and pour sauce over eggs. 
Unless very hot, put In oven two or three minutes to re- 
heat. If desired, triangles of toasted bread, instead of 
rice, may be served around the eggs. 

Eggs Scalloped with Peas 

4 quarts milk -J teaspoon pepper 

I -J cups butter 36 hard-cooked eggs 

i-| cups flour 4 quarts canned peas 

3 teaspoons salt 4 cups buttered crumbs 

Make a white sauce of the first five ingredients, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Drain peas and season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and sugar. Put a layer of peas 
In baking dishes, then a layer of sliced eggs, pour over the 
sauce, and cover with a thin layer of buttered crumbs. 
Bake twenty minutes. 



SOUPS 

Clear soups contain chiefly the flavoring constituents 
of the meat from which they are obtained. They are of 
very Httle nutritive value, but the extractives and gelatine 
which they contain promote the flow of gastric juice and 
so aid digestion. A "thick" or cream soup contains more 
nutriment ; therefore, choose a clear soup if a substantial 
meal is to follow, but if soup is to be the main dish, it 
should be a thick one. 

To Prepare Stock 

Allow two-thirds lean meat to one-third bone and fat^ 
wipe the meat with a cloth wrung out of cold water. Cut 
lean meat into one-inch pieces. Put the fat, bone, and 
two-thirds of the lean meat into a kettle, add cold water^ 
allowing one pint to each pound of meat, bone and fat. 
Let stand thirty to sixty minutes. Heat a frying pan hiss- 
ing hot, put in a little marrow or suet, to prevent sticking^ 
brown one-third of the meat, stirring often, that all parts 
of the surface may be seared. Add this brown meat to the 
first, rinsing out frying pan with a little water from the 
kettle. Heat gradually to the boiling point, and cook six 
or seven hours at a low temperature. 

Vegetables, spices, and salt should be added the last 
hour. Strain and cool quickly. The cake of fat which 
forms on the top of the stock should not be removed till 
the stock is used, as it excludes all air. To remove fat 
which forms, run a knife around the edge of the bowl,. 

59 



60 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

then lift it out. The particles of fat remaining should be 
removed by passing a cloth wrung out of hot water around 
the edge of the receptacle and over top of the stock. 

How to Clear Soup Stock 

Remove fat from stock and put the quantity to be cleared 
in stew pan, allowing white and shell of one egg to two 
quarts of stock. Beat eggs slightly, break shell into small 
pieces, mix with one cup cold water, and add to stock. 
Place on front of range and stir constantly until boiling 
point is reached ; boil two minutes. Set back where it may 
simmer twenty minutes, remove scum and strain through 
double thickness of cheesecloth placed over a fine strainer. 

Soup Stock 

Take a five-pound soup bone and ten pounds or more 
of bones, trimmings, and pieces of meat from cooked 
roasts, steaks, chops, etc. Wash soup bone, cut burned 
parts from cooked meats, put into soup kettle with twelve 
quarts water, simmer six hours. Strain, cool, remove fat, 
and use as foundation for Vegetable, Noodle, or other 
soups requiring stock. 

Bouillon 

Make Soup Stock, using five pounds raw meat in addi- 
tion to that on soup bone. Simmer slowly six hours, add 
four teaspoons peppercorns, four tablespoons salt, one and 
one-half cups each of diced carrot, turnip, celery, and 
onion. Cook one hour, strain, cool, remove fat, and clarify. 

Turkey or Chicken Soup 

After serving roast turkey or chicken, remove any 
stuffing or pieces of white meat, break bones, and put into 



SOUPS 



63 



stock kettle with leaves, roots, and outside pieces of celer}/ 
and uncooked ends of wings or pieces of necks. For three 
or four large turkeys add three gallons cold water, cover, 
and simmer slowly two to four hours. If allowed to boil, 
the soup will be clouded and less delicate in flavor. 

Strain, remove fat, season with salt, pepper, and onion 
juice. Add white meat cut in half-inch pieces and three 
cups boiled rice. 

Vegetable Soup with Stock 

10 quarts stock J teaspoon pepper 

1 cup each carrots, -J tablespoon celery salt 

turnips, parsnips, -J cup rice cooked in 

and cabbage i quart water 

^ cup onion i quart stewed and strained 

2 quarts boiling water tomato 

Wash, pare, and chop vegetables, or put them through 
meat grinder ; cook in boiling water until soft. Wash and 
boil rice, then add rice and vegetables, with water in which 
they were cooked, to stock. Add tomato and seasonings ; 
serve very hot. 

Vegetable Soup without Stock 

I quart carrot 12 quarts water 
I quart turnip 3 cups butter 

I J quarts celery 6 tablespoons finely- 

4i quarts potato chopped parsley 

6 onions Salt and pepper 

Wash and pare carrots and turnips ; cut in strips one 
inch long and one-fourth inch wide, or put through meat 
grinder. Wash, pare, and cut potatoes in small pieces. 



^ RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

^ Cut onion in thin slices and celery in quarter-inch pieces. 
Measure vegetables after cutting ; mix all except potatoes, 
and cook ten minutes in butter, stirring constantly. Turn 
into soup kettle, add potatoes and water; cook one hour. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper, add parsley, and 
■serve at once, boiling hot. 

Potato Soup 

8 pounds potatoes 6 tablespoons salt 

10 quarts hot milk 3 teaspoons celery salt 

2 quarts water or stock i-J teaspoons pepper 

4 medium onions 2 cups butter 

4 tablespoons chopped ij cups flour 

parsley J teaspoon cayenne 

Cook potatoes and sliced onion in water or stock until 
soft, then put through strainer without draining. Make 
a white sauce of the milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauces. Add sauce to potato and 
seasonings, bring to boiling point, sprinkle with parsley, 
5erve. 

Celery Soup 

8 quarts celery 2 chopped onions 

5-J quarts boiling water 2 cups butter 

7 q^uarts scalded milk 2f cups flour 

Salt to taste i teaspoon pepper 

Wash, scrape, and cut celery in half-inch pieces, cook 
w^th onion in boiling water until quite soft, rub through 
sieve. Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter, add flour, 
and when smooth stir into milk and let cook thirty minutes, 
stirring occasionally until perfectly smooth. Have celery 
mixture boiling, add milk, season, and serve with crackers 
or croutons. 



SOUPS 63 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 

6 pounds cabbage ij cups butter 

6 quarts boiling water ij cups flour 

6 quarts milk 5 or more tablespoons salt 

I teaspoon pepper 

Chop cabbage fine, add water and salt, cook until soft. 
Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauce. Just before serving, turn 
the two mixtures together, add pepper, more salt, if needed, 
and one-half cup butter. If water cooks away very much 
in boiling, add a little more. Serve with croutons or 
crackers. 

Corn Soup 
8 cans corn ij cups butter 

3 quarts boiling water ij cups flour 

7 quarts milk 5 or more tablespoons salt 
2 small onions i teaspoon pepper 

Chop onion fine, add water jand corn, simmer twenty 
minutes, stirring often. Make a white sauce of the milk, 
flour, and butter, following directions for White Sauces. 
Just before serving, turn the two mixtures together, bring 
to boil, add seasonings, and serve. 

A Cream of Corn Soup may be made of this by rubbing 
corn mixture through sieve before adding it to the white 
sauce. Serve with a spoonful of popcorn or of whipped 
cream on top of each dish of soup. 

Cream of Green Pea Soup 

2 gallon cans peas 2 onions sliced 

7 tablespoons sugar ij cups butter 

5 quarts cold water ij cups flour 

5 quarts milk 3 or more tablespoons salt 

I teaspoon pepper 



64 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Drain peas, add sugar and cold water, and simmer until 
peas are very soft ; if water evaporates, add more. Rub 
through sieve, reheat, and thicken with butter and flour 
cooked together. Scald milk with onion, remove onion, 
and add milk to pea mixture. Season to taste, serve very- 
hot. 

Split Pea Soup 

2 quarts split, dried peas 3 onions 

7 quarts cold water i cup butter 

3 quarts ham or corned i cup flour 

beef stock 2 quarts hot milk 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Pick over peas, soak over night, drain. Cook water, 
stock, onion, and peas together slowly three or four hours, 
or until peas are very soft. Rub through sieve and thicken 
with flour and butter which have been rubbed together. 
Bring to boiling point, add seasonings and hot milk. 
Beans may be used in place of split peas. 





Lima B< 


5an Soup 


if 


quarts dried Lima 


if cups butter 




beans 


I cup flour 


I 


cup chopped onion 


5 quarts milk 


6 


sprigs parsley 


Salt and paprika to taste 


6 


stalks celery 


4 or more teaspoons 


I 


cup chopped carrot 


Worcestershire sauce 


7 


quarts cold water 


I teaspoon pepper 



Soak beans over night, drain. Add water, onion, celery, 
parsley, and carrot, and cook slowly three or four hours ; 
rub through sieve. Melt butter, add flour and milk, and 
cook thirty minutes in double boiler. Add seasonings, 



SOUPS 65 

combine mixtures, bring to boiling point, serve. Pea beans, 
instead of Lima beans, may be used for this soup. 

Baked Bean Soup 

4 quarts cold Boston 2 quarts stewed and 

baked beans strained tomato 

9 quarts cold water f cup butter 

I cup sliced onion | cup flour 

12 stalks celery Salt and pepper to taste 

Cook beans, water, onion, and celery together slowly 
thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add strained tomato, 
thicken with butter and flour cooked together ; season to 
taste with salt and pepper. 

Cream of Cheese Soup 

6 quarts chicken stock 6 cups grated cheese 
6 quarts milk f teaspoon soda 

I J cups butter i teaspoon paprika 

ij cups flour Salt to taste 

Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauces. Add hot stock, soda, cheese, 
and seasonings. Serve as soon as cheese is melted. 



Tomato 


Soup 


2 gallon cans tomato 


6 tablespoons sugar 


6 quarts water 


I teaspoon soda 


2 teaspoons peppercorns 


I cup butter 


6 small bay leaves 


I J cups flour 


I teaspoon cloves 


Salt 


2 onions 


Pepper 



Cook together the first seven ingredients twenty minutes, 
strain, and add soda. Thicken with butter and flour 



66 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

cooked together, and season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Serve boihng hot. 



Cream o£ Tomato Soup 

6 quarts canned tomato 3 teaspoons soda 

I teaspoon peppercorns 6 quarts milk 

3 bay leaves ij cups butter 

3 sprigs parsley ij cups flour 

I large onion Salt 

6 tablespoons sugar Pepper 

Stew first six ingredients together for thirty minutes, 
strain, and add soda. Alake a white sauce of milk, butter, 
and flour, cooking it thirty minutes in double boiler. Add 
hot strained tomato and seasonings, and serve at once. 

-t-sr^**^" Oyster Stew 

8 quarts milk 2 cups butter 

6 to 8 quarts oysters i teaspoon pepper 

3^ tablespoons salt Crackers 

Pick over oysters carefully, removing any bits of shell ; 
place in colander, pour over cold water, using six cups 
in all. Reserve oyster liquor, heat to boiling point, and 
strain through double cheesecloth. Heat milk in double 
boiler to scalding point, add oysters, and cook until oysters 
are plump and gills curled; add seasonings and oyster 
liquor, and pour at once into tureens. If desired, split 
crackers may be placed in bottom of tureens before turn- 
ing in stew. The oysters may be cooked in oyster liquor 
and added to milk just before serving, if preferred. 



SOUPS 67 

Potato Chowder 

5 quarts diced potatoes 3 quarts water 
I cup flour 2 pounds bacon 

I cup bacon fat 2 cups chopped onion 

8 quarts milk 4 tablespoons chopped 

5 tablespoons salt parsley 

I teaspoon pepper 

Pare and cut potatoes in small pieces or half-inch dice. 
Cut bacon in half -inch cubes, and cook slowly until crisp 
and light brown. Skim out bacon and stir flour into one 
and one-fourth cups of the fat. Put potatoes, bacon, 
onion, water, salt, and pepper into large stew kettle, cover, 
and simmer twenty minutes, or until potatoes are soft. 
Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, and bacon fat, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. Combine mixtures, 
add more seasonings if needed, put into tureens with split 
crackers in bottom, sprinkle parsley over top. Serve very 
hot. 

Corn Chowder 

5 quarts diced potatoes 5 cans corn 

5 slices salt pork ^ cup flour 

5 medium-sized onions 6 tablespoons salt 

3 quarts boiling water i teaspoon pepper 

7 quarts milk f cup butter 

Cut pork in half-inch cubes, and cook slowly until light 
brown and crisp ; add onion and cook slowly five minutes. 
Put potatoes, pork cubes, onion, and boiling water into 
kettle, and cook until potatoes are soft. Stir flour into the 
fat which was tried out from pork, then add to milk which 
has been heated in double boiler; cook twenty minutes. 
Add corn to potatoes, cook a few minutes, add milk, 
seasonings, and split crackers. 



68 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fish Chowder 

12 or more pounds cod 5 tablespoons salt 

/ or other white fish i teaspoon pepper 

5 quarts diced potatoes i cup butter 

5 sliced onions 5 quarts scalded milk 

5 slices salt pork 2-J quarts boiling water 

2^ quarts cold water Crackers 

Have fish skinned, but head and tail left on. Cut off 
head and tail and remove fish from backbone. Cut fish 
in two-inch pieces. Put head, tail, and backbone broken in 
pieces into kettle with cold water, bring slowly to boiling 
point, and simmer twenty minutes. Cut salt pork in half- 
inch cubes, cook slowly until yellow, add onion, and cook 
five minutes with gas turned low. Put potatoes, pork, 
onion, drippings, and boiling water into large kettle, boil 
five minutes, add fish and fish stock, and cook ten minutes. 
Add hot milk, salt to taste, pepper, butter, and crackers 
which have been soaked in cold milk or water. If cooked 
fish is used for chowder, do not put pieces of fish in until 
a few minutes before serving, for they will only need 
reheating. 

Clam Chovi^der 

4 or 5 quarts clams i cup flour 

5 quarts diced potatoes 5 tablespoons salt 
5 sHces fat salt pork ij cups butter 

3 cups chopped onion 6 quarts scalded milk 
3-J quarts water i teaspoon pepper 

Wash and pick over clams, drain. Chop finely hard 
part of clams. Cut potatoes in three-fourths inch cubes. 
Cut pork in half -inch cubes and cook slowly with onion 
ten minutes. Cook potatoes, onion, pork, chopped clams, 



SOUPS 69 

salt, pepper, and water fifteen minutes ; add soft part of 
clams, cook three minutes. Make a white sauce of milk, 
butter, and flour. Combine mixtures and add crackers 
soaked in cold milk. If clam liquor is used, it should be 
heated, strained, and added just before serving. 

Bean Stew 

2 quarts kidney beans 4 quarts water 

I gallon tomatoes I cup butter 

1 quart celery 4 quarts diced potatoes 

2 cups onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Soak beans over night, drain. Cut celery in half-inch 
pieces, chop onion, strain tomatoes. Put first five ingredi- 
ents together into large stew kettle, bring to boiling point, 
then simmer slowly five or more hours. If stew is to be 
used for the midday meal, it would be well to let cook all 
night in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven. About forty- 
five minutes before serving, add potatoes, butter, and 
seasonings. 

Mexican Chili 

2 quarts red kidney beans i quart tomatoes 

4 pounds Hamburg steak 3 large chopped onions 

i pound suet Salt and Chili powder 
8 or more quarts water to taste 

Wash and soak beans for several hours, drain. Add five 
quarts water and cook slowly until soft. They may be 
cooked all night in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven. Cut 
suet in very small pieces, add steak and three quarts or 
more water, cook slowly three hours. When half done, 
add strained tomatoes and onion. Half an hour before 
serving add beans and seasonings. Serve with crackers 
and cucumber pickles. 



70 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Parsnip Stew 

3 or 4 pounds fresh raw lo quarts water 

or roast pork i8 medium-size parsnips 
■J pound salt pork 8 pounds potatoes 

6 medium onions Salt and pepper to taste 

Remove any burned parts from roast pork, add water, 
and cook slowly one hour, or until meat is tender ; strain 
liquor into large kettle, cut meat in small pieces. Cut salt 
pork in half-inch dice, add sliced onion, and cook slowly 
until pork is crisp and onion is yellow. Wash, peel, and 
cut parsnips in slices. If slices are very large, quarter 
them. Turn salt pork, onion, and parsnips into kettle with 
pork stock ; cook thirty minutes, add potatoes cut in small 
slices or pieces ; cook thirty minutes longer, or until vege- 
tables are quite soft. Mix three-fourths cup flour with 
cold water until free from lumps, stir into stew, boil three 
minutes. Add meat, and salt and pepper to taste. 



FISH 

Fish must be perfectly fresh ; the flesh should be firm, 
the gills red, and the eyes bright. Frozen fish may be 
kept a long time, but must be used at once when thawed, 
as it spoils more quickly than fresh fish. Do not keep fish 
in refrigerator with milk, butter, and such foods, on ac- 
count of the odor. Have an ice box or cold storage room 
for fish, meat, etc. In case there is no provision made for 
such foods, put fish in a tightly-covered tin receptacle 
before placing in refrigerator. 

Although fish are cleaned at market, additional clean- 
ing is usually necessary. Remove any scales by scraping 
slowly from tail toward head, holding knife nearly flat 
on fish. Rinse knife often in cold water. Remove with a 
sharp knife any clots of blood. Wipe fish thoroughly inside 
and out with a cloth wrung out of cold salted water. Do 
not put fish into water. 

To skin a fish: With a sharp knife cut oflf a narrow strip 
of skin the whole length of back, removing also the fins 
along the back. Insert a sharp-pointed knife under the 
skin near the gills, and loosen the skin carefully by work- 
ing the knife down toward the tail on one side, then turn 
fish and remove skin from other side. 

When fish are in season: Cod, haddock, halibut, floun- 
ders, bass, pickerel, lobster, and clams are in season at all 
times ; salmon and mackerel, May to September ; shad, 
January to June ; bluefish. May to October ; perch, pike, 
sturgeon, and crabs, all summer ; whitefish and cusk in 
winter; swordfish, July to September; turbot, January 

71 



72 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to March ; smelts, September to March ; oysters, Septem- 
ber to May. 

Cooking and serving of fish: Fish is sufficiently cooked 
when the flesh begins to separate from the bones. Over- 
boiling makes it soft and watery. Salt and vinegar or 
lemon juice are often added to the water in which fish 
is boiled ; the former improves the flavor, the latter keeps 
the flesh white. Fish should always be served with some- 
thing acid. This may be in a sauce, such as Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter or Hollandaise Sauce, or in a garnish of lemon or 
pickle, or in a vegetable accompanying the fish, as fresh 
cucumbers or a salad. Of the many garnishes for fish, the 
following are easily prepared : parsley, watercress, shreds 
of red or green pepper ; slices of lemon, plain or sprinkled 
with finely-chopped parsley ; hard-cooked eggs, tomatoes, 
cucumbers, stuffed olives, or sliced pickles. 

Boiled Fish 

Clean fish as directed. Place on rack of fish kettle, or 
tie in cheesecloth and drop in a large kettle half full of 
boiling water. Cover kettle and simmer gently the re- 
quired time, which varies with size and thickness of fish. 
See Time-table. Small cod, haddock, bass, cusk, and 
salmon are cooked whole; large fish, such as halibut, are 
cut in thick pieces. When done, place on platters, remove 
dark skin, garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and 
serve with Egg Sauce ; or garnish with parsley and eggs, 
and serve with Pickle Sauce. 

Steamed Fish 

Wrap fish in pieces of cheesecloth. Lay on plates in 
steamer, and cook until flesh separates from bone. Serve 
as Boiled Fish. 



FISH 73 

Broiled Fish 

Clean fish as directed, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and put in well-greased wire broiler. Slices of fish should 
be turned often while cooking; whole fish should be first 
broiled on flesh side, then turned, and cooked on skin side 
long enough to brown and crisp the skin. Loosen fish on 
both sides, slip from broiler to hot platter. Spread white 
fish with Maitre d'Hotel Butter ; oily fish with plain butter 
and more salt if needed. Garnish as desired. 

Cod, haddock, bluefish, shad, cusk, or mackerel are split 
down the back and broiled whole, with or without the head 
and tail. Salmon, swordfish, and halibut are cut in inch 
slices for broiling. Smelts and other small fish are left 
whole. Cod and haddock are usually scrodded for broil- 
ing — that is, split down the back and boned. 

To Broil with Gas 

Clean six four-pound fish as directed, brush skin side 
of fish generously with pork drippings, sprinkle flesh 
side with salt and pepper. Grease thoroughly rack in 
broiling oven, lay fish on rack with skin side down. Cook 
twenty to thirty minutes, or until flakes begin to separate 
and flesh is delicately browned. Do not turn. When done, 
loosen fish from rack, place on platters, spread with 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, if a white fish ; or with plain butter, 
if a dark or oily fish. Slices of fish may be laid on a well- 
greased shallow pan, instead of on the rack, if desired. 

Baked Fish with Stuffing 

Cod, haddock, cusk, bluefish, mackerel, etc., may be 
cooked in this way. Clean six four-pound fish, sprinkle 



74 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

inside and out with salt, stuff and sew. If white fish, cut 
gashes on each side of backbone and insert strips of fat 
salt pork. Shape in form of letter S, fastening with 
skewers and twine. Or the head, tail, and backbone may 
be removed, the fish stuffed, and laid flat in pan. Place 
on greased fish-sheet or on bottom of dripping pans. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush with melted butter 
or pork drippings, dredge with flour, and place around 
fish small pieces of fat salt pork. Baste often while 
baking. See Time-table on page 82. Serve with Drawn 
Butter, Egg, or Hollandaise Sauce. 

Plain Stuffing 

6 cups cracker or bread i J teaspoons salt 

crumbs f teaspoon pepper 

ij cups melted butter ij cups hot water 

Mix ingredients in order given. This stuffing may be 
T'aried by adding six teaspoons each of parsley, capers, 
and pickles, and a little onion juice. This quantity is 
sufficient for six four-pound fish. 

Oyster Stuffing 

6 cups cracker crumbs 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

I J cups melted butter 3 tablespoons finely- 
2j teaspoons salt chopped parsley 

f teaspoon pepper 4 cups oysters 

Clean and drain oysters, mix with crumbs and season- 
ings, moisten with melted butter and a little oyster liquor, 
if needed. 

Baked Fish without Stuffing , 
Spread pork drippings, or thin slices of salt pork, in the 
"bottom of agate dripping pans. Lay on this slices of large 



FISH 75 

fish, or smaller fish which have been split open and boned. 
Spread with melted butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Bake in a hot oven until the flakes begin to separate. 
Remove to hot platters, spread with plain or Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter, garnish, and serve. 

Or bake until nearly done, then pour over fish rich milk 
or thin cream, allowing one cup to a fish; finish baking 
and serve. 

Halibut a la Creole 

i8 pounds halibut 3 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts tomatoes I cup butter 

I quart water I cup flour 

6 slices onion i tablespoon salt 

6 tablespoons mild pepper ^ teaspoon paprika 

Cook tomato, water, onion, pepper, and sugar together 
twenty minutes. Melt butter, add flour, stir into hot mix- 
ture. Add salt and paprika, cook ten minutes, and strain. 
Cut fish into six pieces, clean, put into baking dishes, pour 
over it the sauce, cover, bake thirty-five minutes. Remove 
to platters, pouring sauce over fish. If halibut is cooked 
whole, a longer time should be allowed for baking. 



Fried Fish 

Small fish are cooked whole ; large fish are divided into- 
sections or slices of any desired size. Clean, wipe dry, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then in egg and 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain. 

Or roll in flour or cornmeal, and saute in salt pork drip- 
pings in frying pan. 



y6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Kippered Herrings 

Remove fish from eight cans of kippered herrings. Lay- 
In shallow agate pans or on platters that can be put in 
oven. Sprinkle with pepper and lemon juice, pour over 
the liquor from cans, put in oven until well heated, and 
garnish with parsley and lemon slices. 

Buttered Finnan Haddie 

Put six four-pound fish in large pan, cover with cold 
Avater, bring to boiling point, and simmer slowly twenty- 
iive minutes ; drain. Put on platters, spread generously 
with butter, put in oven until butter is melted. 



SHELLFISH 

To Parboil Oysters 

Clean oysters by putting into a colander or strainer, 
pouring a small amount of cold water through them and 
removing any pieces of shell. 

Put one quart oysters at a time in saucepan, add one- 
half teaspoon salt, and shake over fire until gills are curled 
and oysters plump. 

Raw Oysters 

Use small, plump oysters, allowing six to each person. 
Clean shells thoroughly and serve oysters on deep halves. 
Arrange on plates of crushed ice, with valve end of shells 
toward center of plate, and with a slice of lemon in the 
-center. 



FISH 'JJ 



Fried Oysters 

Clean one and one-half gallons oysters, dry on a towel ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper ; dip in flour or fine crumbs, 
^%^, and crumbs again. Fry in hot fat, drain, and serve 
at once. Or saute in butter or bacon fat in a frying pan. 



Panned Oysters 

Clean and drain two gallons oysters. Melt two table- 
spoons butter in a hot frying pan, add one pint oysters, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring constantly, 
until edges curl. Turn into double boiler to keep hot, but 
keep water in lower part just below boiling point, or 
oysters will be cooked too much. Continue until all the 
oysters are cooked. Serve on toast, moistening with oyster 
liquor. 

Creamed Oysters 

4 quarts milk and oyster 4 quarts oysters 

liquor i teaspoon celery salt or 

2 cups butter 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

2\ cups flour I cup chopped mush- 

4 teaspoons salt rooms if desired 

\ teaspoon pepper 

Parboil oysters, drain ; add enough rich milk to strained 
oyster liquor to make four quarts. Make a white sauce of 
the first four ingredients, following directions for White 
Sauce. Add pepper, celery salt or lemon juice, and oysters. 
When very hot, serve on well-toasted bread which has been 
moistened in hot salted water. 



78 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Oysters 

6 quarts oysters 6 cups cracker crumbs 

I J cups oyster liquor 3 cups melted butter 

f cup milk or cream Salt 

3 cups stale bread crumbs Pepper 

Mix bread and cracker crumbs and stir in butter. Put 
a thin la3^er in bottom of buttered baking dishes, cover 
with cleaned oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper ; repeat. 
Dip oyster liquor and cream over top, cover with remain- 
ing crumbs. Bake thirty minutes in hot oven. A little 
finely-chopped celery is an improvement. There should 
never be more than two layers to a dish for scalloped 
oysters. 

Steamed Clams 

Wash and scrub clam shells, changing the water several 
times. Put into large kettle, allowing one cup hot water 
to one peck clams. Cover closely and cook until shells 
open, remove at once from fire or clams will be overcooked. 
Serve hot with melted butter. 

Scalloped Clams 

6 quarts clams i cup melted butter 

6 quarts cracker crumbs Paprika to taste 

Salt to taste 18 well-beaten eggs 

Drain the liquor from clams and set aside. Chop clams 
fine. Moisten cracker crumbs with equal parts of clam 
liquor and milk. Season with paprika and salt to taste, 
add melted butter, well-beaten eggs, and clams. Mix 
thoroughly and put into well-greased baking dishes. Bake 
until brown. 



FISH 79 

Lobster 

To open a lobster: Wipe it, break off the claws, separate 
tail from body by twisting and pulling at same time. 
Remove meat from body; save the liver and coral, but 
discard stomach and lungs. Break the large claws, or if 
shell is soft, cut with scissors, and remove meat whole. 
Crush the tail shell and remove meat in one piece ; cut the 
meat open lengthwise and remove intestinal canal. 

Lobster should be cooked only long enough to heat it 
through, or it will be tough. 

Creamed Lobster 
Remove meat from shell and cut in cubes or small pieces. 
Make White Sauce II, allowing one quart sauce for each 
quart meat. Season with salt, paprika, chopped parsley, 
and lemon juice. Add lobster meat, reheat, and serve on 
toast or in patty shells. 

Scalloped Lobster 

Prepare as for Creamed Lobster, using White Sauce I ; 
put in baking dishes, ramekins, or scallop shells, cover with 
buttered crumbs, bake until crumbs are delicately browned. 

Deviled Lobster 

Prepare as for Creamed Lobster, with the addition of 
two teaspoons each of onion juice, Worcestershire Sauce, 
and mustard, a few grains cayenne, and a few drops 
Tabasco, for each quart of sauce. 

Shrimps and Crabs 

Shrimps and crabs maybe creamed, scalloped, or deviled, 
like lobster. 



80 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Scallops 

Cover six or eight quarts scallops with boiling water, 
let stand three minutes, drain, and dry with cheesecloth. 
Season with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, egg, and 
crumbs again. Fry in deep fat, or saute in butter in fry- 
ing pan. Serve with Sauce Tartare. 

Deviled Scallops 

8 quarts scallops 8 tablespoons tomato catsup 

I cup butter 8 teaspoons mustard 

8 tablespoons Worcester- Juice 4 lemons 
shire Sauce 4 teaspoons salt 

4 teaspoons paprika 

Parboil scallops two minutes, drain. Melt butter, add 
Worcestershire Sauce and other seasonings, bring to boil- 
ing point, serve. 

Scalloped Scallops 

6 quarts scallops 2 cups butter 

3 or more cups chopped i-| cups flour 

mushrooms 2J quarts rich milk 

I J cups chopped onion J quart scallop liquor 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Parboil scallops two minutes. Drain and chop or cut 
in slices. Melt butter, add onion and mushrooms, cook 
slowly five minutes. Add flour, stir well, and add hot milk 
and liquor, stirring all the time. When smooth and thick- 
ened, add scallops, put in buttered baking dishes, and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



MEATS 

Good beef is firm and fine-grained in texture, bright 
red in color, and well mottled with fat, which should be 
firm and yellowish white. 

Meat should be removed from wrapping paper as soon 
as it comes from the market, as the paper will absorb 
some of the juices. 

Keep meat in a cool place, but never put it in the ice 
compartment of a refrigerator, because the excessive 
moisture hastens decay. In case of insufficient refrigerator 
space, a large order may be given at one time, the butcher 
delivering it as required. 

Tender meats, such as the rump, the loin, or the ribs, 
should be broiled, pan-broiled, or roasted; but tough 
meats, like the flank, the round, or the brisket, should be 
cooked in water very slowly for several hours. But what- 
ever the method of cookery, the meat should first be sub- 
jected to a high temperature long enough to sear the 
outside, thus preventing the escape of the meat juices. 

As a rule, the palatability and digestibility of dark meats 
are greater when served rare, but of white meats when 
thoroughly cooked. 

Meats must be weighed, trimmed, and wiped with a 
cloth wrung out of cold water, but must never be put into 
water, as that draws out the meat juices. 



8i 



82 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Time-table for Cookery of Meats and Fish 

Boiling 

-DC6I Range Aladdin Oven 

Braised or pot roast 4 to 5 hrs. 5 to 6 hrs. 

Stew 3 to 4 hrs. 4 to 5 hrs. 

Corned 4 to 5 hrs. 5 to 6 hrs. 
Cod (see Haddock) 

Fowl 2 to 3 hrs. 3 to 4 hrs. 

Haddock (3 to 5 lb. pieces) 20 to 30 min. 

Halibut (3 lb. pieces) 30 min. 

Ham (15 lbs.) 4 to 5 hrs. 5 to 6 hrs. 

Mutton, leg or shoulder 2 to 3 hrs. 3 to 4 hrs. 

Stew 2 to 3 hrs. 2 to 3 hrs. 

Veal stew 3 to 4 hrs. 4 hrs. 

Baking 

Beef, rump or sirloin, rare 10 min. to lb. 15-20 min. to lb. 

Chicken 2 hrs. 3 hrs. 

Fish (3 to 4 lbs. each) i hr. 2 hrs. 

Lamb 2 hrs. 3 hrs. 

Yearling 2j to 3 hrs. 4 to 5 hrs. 

Chops \ hr. 

Turkey 3 hrs. 4 hrs. 

Veal, leg or shoulder 4 to 5 hrs. 6 to 7 hrs. 



MEATS 83 

BEEF 

Broiled Steak 

Trim off superfluous or tainted fat from fifteen to twenty 
pounds sirloin or rump steak, and wipe with cloth wrung 
out of cold water. Grease wire broiler with some of the 
fat, put meat in broiler, and broil over clear fire, turning 
almost constantly until surface is well seared, then occa- 
sionally until done. Steak cut one inch thick will require 
five minutes if liked rare, six minutes if medium, and ten 
minutes or so if well done. Remove to hot platters, spread 
with butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

To Broil zvith Gas. Trim off fat and wipe steak. Light 
gas in broiling oven five to ten minutes before using. 
Grease rack in broiling pan with piece of fat. Lay steak 
on rack, and when broiler is hot, place pan on highest 
notch, so as to be as near flame as possible. As soon as 
steak is seared on one side, turn and sear other side. In 
turning, put the fork into steak as near edge as possible, 
in order to prevent escape of juices. When well seared, 
lower pan about six inches and cook slowly three to five 
minutes, then turn steak andcook from three tofiveminutes 
on that side. The time depends upon thickness of steak. 
Remove to platters, season with salt, pepper, butter, and 
drippings from broiling pan. 

Broiled steak may be served with Maitre d'Hotel Butter 
or Mushroom Sauce. 

Steak with Onions 

Slice one peck onions, cover with boiling water, cook 
slowly twenty minutes, drain. When well drained, put 
in saucepan or aluminum kettle, and let simmer until a 



84 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

portion of the water has evaporated. Add one-half cup 
or more butter and salt to taste. Stir onions often until 
soft and slightly browned. When steak is broiled and 
seasoned, cover with onions and send at once to table. 

Hamburg Steak 

10 pounds finely-chopped i teaspoon pepper 
raw beef 3J tablespoons or more 

f cup minced onion salt 

f cup minced green peppers 
Chop onion very fine. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 
Shape in form of steaks one inch in thickness, or in small, 
flat cakes. Broil or pan-broil, spread with butter or Maitre 
d'Hotel Butter, or serve with Brown, ^lushroom, or 
Tomato Sauce. The peppers may be omitted. 

Beefsteak Roll 

Take large, thin slices of steak from the round: there 
should be about ten pounds. Wipe meat and lay out flat. 
Prepare stuffing as for roast chicken. Spread it evenly 
over sHces of steak, roll up tightly, and tie with string, 
securing ends well. Saute rolls in iron frying pan in salt 
pork drippings, turning them so as to be well browned on 
all sides. Put rolls in covered roasting pans, pour over 
drippings and enough boiling water to cover bottom of 
pans. Cover and cook slowly two or three hours, turning 
meat once, and adding more water if needed. Take meat 
out on platters, remove strings, and keep hot while gravy 
is made. Make gravy from liquid in pans, allowing eight 
tablespoons flour to each quart of liquid. Mix flour with 
water to pour easily. Season with salt, pepper, and kitchen 
bouquet. Serve in gravy boats. Carve steak by cutting 
crosswise through beef and stuffing. 



MEATS 85 

Roast Beef 

There should be from fifteen to twenty pounds, and it 
may be left in one large piece or cut in two. Wipe, trim- 
ming off any fat or skin which may be discolored or 
tainted. Put on rack in dripping pans, skin side down, 
rub over with salt, dredge with flour. Place in hot oven, 
in order to sear surface quickly. As soon as flour in 
bottom of pan is browned, reduce heat and cook the re- 
quired time, basting often. See Time-Table for Cooking. 
If meat is quite lean, put two or three tablespoons drip- 
pings in pans. When meat is about half done, turn, dredge 
other side with flour, and finish roasting. 

To Roast in Aladdin Oven. Trim and wipe meat as 
above. Saute in hot greased frying pan, turning so as to 
brown all sides. Lay on rack in dripping pans. Unless 
there is plenty of fat on roasts, put two or three table- 
spoons drippings in pans. Light oven one hour before 
using. Put in meat, allowing fifteen to twenty minutes 
to the pound for roasting. Turn meat and change pans 
around when half done, in order that meat may be uni- 
formly cooked. Serve Brown Gravy or Mushroom Sauce 
with roast beef. 

Brown Gravy 

I J cups drippings 2-| quarts water 

ij cups flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Pour off clear fat, reserving one and one-half cups of 
brown drippings in bottom of pans. Turn this into large 
saucepan, stir in browned flour. When smooth, add hot 
water, stirring constantly until smooth and thickened. 
Boil five minutes, season to taste. The gravy should be 
of a rich brown color, but if it is not, add kitchen bouquet 



86 RECIPES AXD MENUS FOR FIFTY 

as needed. Strain if lumpy. Brown the flour in frying 
pan, stirring constantly until a uniform yellowish brown 
color. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

I-J quarts milk ij teaspoons salt 

1 1 quarts flour 6 eggs 

Mix salt with flour, add milk gradually, that mixture 
may not become lumpy. Add beaten eggs, then beat mix- 
ture two minutes with Dover tgg beater. Cover bottom 
of hot pans with hot beef drippings; pour in batter to 
depth of one-half inch. Bake thirty minutes, or until 
brown all over, basting, when well risen, with hot beef 
drippings. Cut in squares and serve around roast. 

Braised Beef 

12 to 15 pounds beef i^ quarts diced turnips 

from lower part of i-| cups onion 

round 2 teaspoons peppercorns 

1 1 quarts diced carrots i^ cups celery 

2j quarts boiling water 2 cups diced salt pork 

Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and brown entire surface in beef or pork drippings 
in frying pan. Put beef into kettle with closely fitting 
cover, add vegetables, pork, seasonings, and boiling water. 
Bring to boil, put into oven, and cook slowly four or five 
hours. When meat is tender, strain ofif two and one-half 
quarts liquor, thicken with one cup flour mixed to a smooth 
paste with cold water, season to taste with salt, pepper, 
and kitchen bouquet, and serve in gravy boats. Serve 
vegetables as a garnish for the meat. 



MEATS 87* 

Pressed Beef 

12 pounds beef from flank, 2 cups onion 

brisket, or round 2 cups carrot 

I tablespoon salt 1 teaspoon peppercorns 

Sweet herbs to taste J cup vinegar 

Wipe and trim meat, cover with boiling water, bring to 
boiling point, simmer until meat is in shreds. Add vege- 
tables and seasonings one hour before it is done. Remove 
meat and pack in long, narrow pans. Reduce liquor to 
three cups, strain and pour over meat. Cover and press 
with a heavy weight. Serve cold in thin slices. 

Corned Beef 

Wash corned beef, put in kettle, cover with cold water,, 
bring slowly to boiling point. Boil five minutes, remove 
scum, and cook slowly until tender. If it is to be pressed, 
cook until it falls to pieces, and let it stand in water until 
partially cooled. Pack it in brick-shaped pans, laying the 
long fibers lengthwise, and mixing in the fat so that it will 
be well marbled. Press until cold. Fifteen pounds is 
sufficient for one meal, but from twenty to twenty-five 
pounds will be needed if it is desired to have enough left 
over for hash. 

Boiled Dinner 

Prepare and cook corned beef as above, being careful 
that it does not cook to pieces. Two hours before dinner 
remove meat and a part of the liquor to another kettle, 
and replace in Aladdin oven or on back of range to keep 
hot, or to cook more if necessary. Have small cabbages 
cut in eighths, carrots and turnips in any desired shape, 
small potatoes left whole. Skim off fat from corned beef 



•88 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

liquor, put in carrots and cook thirty minutes, add cabbage 
and turnips and cook from thirty to forty-five minutes, 
then add potatoes and cook until all are done. If there is 
not sufficient liquor, add boiling water. Serve cabbage 
in separate dishes, the other vegetables on platters with 
beef. Serve mustard or mustard pickles with corned beef. 

Boiled Tongue 

Wash twelve pounds corned tongues, cover with cold 
water, bring slowly to a boil, boil five minutes, removing 
the scum as it rises. Simmer three or four hours, or until 
tender. Remove skin and roots, and serve hot with 
Piquante or Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce. Or let cool 
in liquor in which they are cooked, and peel just before 
serving. Arrange slices overlapping each other around 
platters, with watercress piled in center. Serve with 
Tartare Sauce. 

Fresh tongues may be used instead of corned, but 
should be put directly into boiling water. 

Braised Tongue 

3 fresh beef tongues i cup diced carrot 

I cup onion i cup diced celery 

Wash tongues, put in kettle, cover with boiling water, 
and cook slowly two hours. Remove skin and roots, put 
tongues in deep pan, surround with vegetables, and pour 
over the sauce. Cover closely and cook two hours in slow 
oven, turning meat once. Slice, arrange on platters, pour 
the hot sauce over meat, and serve at once. 

Sauce. Melt one cup butter, add one cup flour, and stir 
until smooth and well browned. Add two quarts water 
in which tongue was cooked. Season with three teaspoons 
Worcestershire Sauce, salt, and pepper. 



MEATS 89 

Beef Stew 

I cup beef drippings 6 bay leaves 

12 pounds beef 6 sprigs parsley 

4 tablespoons salt 2 quarts diced turnip 

I teaspoon peppercorns 2 quarts diced carrot 

12 cloves 6 small sliced onions 

Pepper Coarse stalks celery 

Use any of the less expensive cuts of meat; left-over 
roast or steak may be used, in which case it is not necessary 
to brown it again. 

Cut beef in one-inch cubes. Dredge two-thirds of the 
meat with flour and brown it in the drippings. Put in a. 
large kettle with remaining meat, add three quarts boiling 
water, and cook slowly four or more hours. Add vege- 
tables and seasonings two hours before serving. If it is 
desired to have potatoes in stew, cut them in slices and 
add half an hour before taking from fire. Thicken with 
two cups flour mixed with enough water to pour easily. 
Watch carefully while thickening, lest it burn on the 
bottom. Gravy left from roast beef should be added ta 
the stew. Serve very hot with dumplings or baking powder 
biscuit. 

Dumplings 

2 quarts flour 5J tablespoons baking 
4 teaspoons salt powder 

3 tablespoons shortening 3 cups milk 

Sift dry ingredients together, rub in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add milk gradually, using a knife for 
mixing. Take on floured board, pat and roll out to one- 
half inch thickness. Shape with a small biscuit cutter. 



90 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Place close together in buttered steamer, cover closely, 
steam twelve minutes. Serve at once. 







Spanish 


Stew 




12 


pounds beef 




I or 2 sweet green 


peppers 


2 


quarts tomatoes 


3 large onions 




I 


quart water 




Salt to taste 





Cut beef in one-inch cubes. Dredge two-thirds of the 
meat with flour and brown in beef drippings. Seed and 
chop peppers, slice onions, strain tomatoes. Put all in- 
gredients into large kettle, bring to boiling point, and 
simmer four hours, or until meat is tender. Before serv- 
ing, thicken with two cups flour mixed with enough water 
to pour easily. Stir almost constantly until it thickens and 
boils, in order to prevent its sticking and burning on 
bottom. 

Beef Loaf 

10 pounds raw beef 8 eggs 

2 pounds fat salt pork 3 or more tablespoons salt 

6 cups dry bread crumbs 5 teaspoons mixed herbs 

4 cups water or stock — 5 tablespoons minced 
more or less as needed onion 

I teaspoon pepper 

Chop meat and onion very fine. If bread is hard and 
dry, dip for a moment in cold water, then wring dry in 
cloth before crumbling. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, 
pack in brick-shaped pans, bake two and one-half hours 
in Aladdin oven, or in range with slow heat. Baste occa- 
sionally. Serve hot or cold. 



MEATS 91 

Beef k la (/^ sanne 

10 pounds finely-chopped 3 tablespoons salt 
raw beef i teaspoon pepper 

4 pint cans tomato soup 3 cups buttered crumbs 

Mix beef thoroughly with salt and pepper. Rinse out 
cans with half as much water as there is soup. Put a layer 
of meat in bottom of casserole or baking dishes, then a 
layer of soup, another layer of meat, and so on until all 
the beef and soup are used. Cover with a thin layer of 
buttered crumbs. Bake two hours in Aladdin or other 
slow oven. Serve from the dishes in which it is cooked. 

Liver w^ith Bacon 

Have six or more pounds beef liver cut in slices one- 
half inch in thickness. Pour boiling water over liver, let 
stand five minutes, drain. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour, and cook slowly in plenty of bacon fat 
until well cooked and browned slightly on both sides. 
Arrange on platters with crisp bacon. See directions for 
cooking bacon. 

Liver Loaf 

10 pounds sliced liver 3 teaspoons poultry season- 

2 tablespoons onion ing 

2 tablespoons salt 6 tablespoons vinegar or 

8 eggs well beaten juice of 2 lemons 

6 cups stale bread crumbs 

Cook liver in boiling salted water five minutes, drain, 
and chop fine. Mince onion very fine. Soak bread in cold 
water and wring dry in a cloth. Mix ingredients thor- 
oughly. Line brick-shaped pans with thin slices bacon, 



92 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

pack tightly with Hver mixture, cover with bacon, and 
bake two hours or more in moderate oven. Turn from 
molds and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

Braised Liver 

12 pounds beef liver 2 cups diced turnip 

2 cups diced carrot i pound salt pork 

2 cups diced onion 2 teaspoons peppercorns 

2 cups diced celery 2 teaspoons whole cloves 

3 bay leaves 

Pour boiling water over liver, let stand five minutes, 
then saute on all sides in hot pork or bacon drippings. 
Put meat in kettle, add vegetables and seasonings, lay thin 
slices pork or bacon over meat, add two quarts water or 
stock, cover closely, and cook three or more hours in slow 
oven. Remove meat, strain liquor, and thicken, using 
eight tablespoons flour to one quart liquid. Season to 
taste with salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet ; serve in gravy 
boats. Arrange sliced liver on platters, garnish with the 
vegetables, and serve with it fresh or pickled cucumbers, 
or tomato catsup. 

Tripe in Batter 

Wash eight pounds pickled honeycomb tripe, cover with 
boiling water, and simmer gently thirty minutes, or till 
tender. Drain, wipe as dry as possible, and cut in pieces 
for serving. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in batter, 
cook in frying pans in a small quantity of hot fat until 
well browned on both sides. Drain on brown paper. 

Batter. Mix and sift five cups flour, one and one- fourth 
teaspoons salt, and seven teaspoons baking powder. Add 
one and two-thirds cups milk and five well-beaten eggs. 



MEATS 93 

Lyonnaise Tripe 

10 pounds honeycomb tripe 2 J cups chopped onion 
2 cups butter 6 tablespoons minced 

Salt to taste parsley 

I teaspoon paprika 

Cook tripe in plenty of boiling water until very tender. 
Drain, cut in two-inch squares or strips. Cook onion 
slowly in butter until soft, turn in tripe, and toss about 
until butter is absorbed and tripe slightly browned. 
Sprinkle with salt, paprika, and parsley. If tripe is not 
pickled, add lemon juice or vinegar to taste. Serve very 
hot in covered dishes. 

Tripe a la Creole 

10 pounds tripe i^ cups chopped onion 

ij cups flour J cup chopped green 

i^ cups butter pepper 

3 quarts strained tomato 

Melt butter, add pepper and onion, and cook until onion 
is soft and yellowish in color. Add flour, stir until smooth, 
then add tomato, stirring constantly until smooth and 
thickened. Season to taste with salt. Boil tripe until 
tender, cut in two-inch pieces, add to sauce, and simmer 
ten minutes. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

Broiled Chops 

Wipe fifteen pounds chops, trim oft superfluous fat, and 
broil, following directions for Broiled Steak, and allow- 
ing from six to eight minutes if liked rare, and from eight 



94 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to ten If liked well done. Arrange chops In circle on hot 
platters, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and spread with 
butter If desired. 

Pan-Broiled Chops 

Prepare as for Broiled Chops. Put In hisslng-hot fry- 
ing pans, sear, turn, and sear other side. Turn often, but 
do not pierce chops with fork, or juices will escape. Cook 
about six minutes if liked rare, eight to ten minutes if 
liked well done. If much fat collects In pan, pour it off. 
Turn chops on edge long enough to brown fat. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, spread with butter if desired, and 
serve very hot. 

Baked Chops 

Wipe and trim chops, arrange on rack In dripping pans, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook In hot oven thirty 
minutes, turning them when about half done. Remove to 
hot platters and serve at once. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Remove caul from two twelve-pound legs of mutton, 
wipe meat, put in kettle. Cover with boiling water, bring 
to boiling point, and boil five minutes, removing scum as 
it rises. Simmer until meat is tender, allowing fifteen 
minutes to the pound. When half done, add three table- 
spoons salt. Serve with Caper Sauce. 

Roast Lamb 

Three eight-pound legs of yearlings will be sufficient. 
Remove caul and outer skin, wipe, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour, place on rack in dripping pans. 
If cooked in range or gas oven, allow fifteen minutes to 
the pound, basting often. If cooked In Aladdin oven. 



MEATS 95 

allow twenty-five or thirty minutes to the pound, turning 
meat and changing pans around when half done. Serve 
with Brown Gravy made as for Beef Roast, or with Mint 
Sauce. 

Braised Leg o£ Mutton 

Have two twelve-pound legs of mutton boned. Wipe, 
roll, and tie securely in shape. Melt one-half cup pork fat, 
add one cup each diced onion, turnip, and carrot, two bay 
leaves, and two sprigs parsley. Cook five minutes, add 
two quarts boiling water, one tablespoon salt, and one- 
half teaspoon peppercorns ; pour over the mutton. Cover 
closely and cook slowly three hours. Remove from pan 
and keep hot while making sauce. Melt one and one- 
fourth cups butter or drippings, add one and one-fourth 
cups flour, stir till well browned, then add strained liquor 
from pan. There should be two quarts. 

Roast Shoulder o£ Lamb 

Have three shoulders of yearlings boned at market. 
Wipe with damp cloth, sprinkle with salt, stuff, roll, and 
tie securely. The stuffing may be omitted if preferred. 
Put into boiling salted water to nearly cover, boil five 
minutes, removing scum as it rises. Cook gently in Aladdin 
oven or over simmerer two hours, or until tender. Then 
remove from water, drain, put in dripping pans, dredge 
with flour, salt, and pepper, and cook in hot oven forty- 
five minutes, or until brown and crisp on surface. Baste 
with some of the liquor in which meat was cooked. Make 
Brown Gravy with drippings and stock, following direc- 
tions given with Beef Roast. H gravy is colorless or 
insipid, add kitchen bouquet. Stuffing may be made as for 
Roast Shoulder of Veal, omitting lemon juice. 



g6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Irish Stew 

1 6 pounds mutton i quart diced carrot 

6 quarts potatoes i quart diced turnip 

6 large onions Salt and pepper to taste 

Wipe and cut in small pieces about sixteen pounds from 
forequarter of mutton. Saute half of it in beef or pork 
drippings until well browned. Put all the meat into kettle, 
add three quarts boiling water, bring to boiling point, and 
cook slowly in Aladdin oven or on back of range three 
hours. At end of first hour, add sliced onions, turnip, and 
carrot. An hour later add potatoes cut in one-third inch 
slices, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Before 
serving, thicken with two cups flour stirred to a smooth 
paste with cold water. Boil two minutes or more, stirring 
carefully to prevent burning. Serve with Dumplings or 
small Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Lamb Stew^ 

1 6 pounds lamb from 4 small cans peas 

the forequarter 2 quarts stock or water 

4 onions sliced 2 quarts strained tomato 

I cup drippings Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut meat into one-inch cubes. Fry onions in drippings 
till slightly colored, then skim into kettle. Dredge meat 
with flour and brown in drippings. Put meat and stock 
in kettle with onion, cover, cook slowly in Aladdin oven, 
or on range two hours, or until lamb is tender. Soak 
pieces of toast in the hot seasoned tomato and arrange on 
platters. Skim out meat, put on toast, and keep hot. Add 
remainder of tomato to stock, and thicken with one and 
one-half cups flour mixed to a paste with cold water. Boil 



MEATS 97 

till thickened, add peas, season, heat thoroughly, and pour 
over meat and toast. Mutton may be used instead of lamb. 

Fricassee of Lamb 

12 to 1 6 pounds meat 3 quarts water 

from the f orequarter I onion sliced 
Bacon fat Salt and pepper to taste 

Have lamb boned and cut in pieces for serving. Wipe, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and 
brown in bacon fat. Put in kettle, add boiling water, 
boil five minutes, removing scum as it rises. Simmer in 
Aladdin oven, or on range, two hours for lamb, three 
hours for mutton. Remove from kettle and keep hot while 
sauce is made. Melt one cup bacon fat, cook onion in it 
slowly five minutes. Remove onion, add one and one- 
fourth cups flour, stir till smooth, add three quarts of the 
stock in which meat has been cooked, and from which all 
fat has been skimmed. Cook until thickened, season with 
salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet. Arrange meat on 
platters and pour over it the sauce. 

VEAL 
Roast Shoulder of Veal 

Have two medium-sized forequarters of veal boned at 
market. Trim off tainted or discolored skin or fat, and 
wipe with cloth wrung out of cold water. Sprinkle with 
salt, fill cavity with stuffing, make into rolls, and tie 
securely. Dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
lay on rack in dripping pans. Cover top with slices of fat 
salt pork and cook six hours in Aladdin oven, or four hours 
in range. Remove meat and keep hot while making gravy. 



98 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Pour off some of the clear fat, leaving one and one-half 
cups brown drippings, add one and one-half cups flour, 
stir until well browned, add two and one-half quarts water, 
stir until smooth and thickened. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper. The thick part of leg or loin may be boned 
and roasted in the same manner. 

Stuffing 

I quart dry bread crumbs 4 tablespoons chopped 
4 teaspoons salt onion 

3 tablespoons lemon juice i cup melted drippings 
I tablespoon mixed herbs i cup chopped salt pork 

Water to moisten if needed 

If bread is hard and dry, dip in cold water and wring dry 
in cloth before crumbling. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 

Braised Shoulder of Veal 

Bone, wipe, and tie securely ; then cook same as Braised 
Beef. 

Veal Fricassee 

Cut sixteen pounds veal from forequarter in pieces for 
serving. Wipe, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in salt pork fat. Put in kettle with 
three quarts boiling water and cook slowly three hours, 
or until meat is tender.^ Melt two cups pork fat, add two 
cups flour, and stir until well browned, then add three 
quarts of water in which veal was cooked, stirring con- 
stantly until smooth and thickened. Season with salt, 
pepper, onion juice, and lemon juice. Serve veal in center 
of platter, garnish with parsley, and surround with hot 
sauce. 



MEATS 99 

Veal Fricassee with Tomato 

Have sixteen pounds veal from the forequarter boned 
and cut in pieces for serving. Wipe, roll in egg and 
crumbs, and saute in pork or beef drippings. Put into 
kettle, add three quarts Tomato Sauce, cover closely, and 
cook slowly three or four hours. 

Veal Stew 

Have two shoulders of veal boned and cut in pieces for 
serving. Put in kettle, add two quarts boiling water, boil 
five minutes, then cook slowly in Aladdin oven or on range 
four hours, or until tender, adding salt when half done. 
Add milk to make three quarts liquid, thicken with one and 
one-fourth cups each flour and butter creamed together. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Arrange meat on 
pieces of toast and pour over them the hot sauce. 

Mock Birds 

Have from eight to ten pounds veal cut from leg or 
loin, in slices half an inch thick. Remove bone, fat, and 
skin, and pound until fiber is broken. Cut in pieces five 
inches long and three wide. ]\Iake a forcemeat as follows : 
Put veal trimmings and six slices fat salt pork through 
meat grinder ; add one-half their measure of fine cracker 
crumbs. Season highly with salt, pepper, lemon juice, 
paprika, onion juice, and poultry seasoning. Moisten with 
beaten egg and hot water. Cover each piece of veal nearly 
to the edge with this forcemeat, roll, and fasten with 
wooden toothpicks. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, 
and brown in pork drippings. Put in stew pan, add three 
quarts rich milk, and simmer twenty minutes, or until 
meat is tender, watching carefully that it does not burn. 



lOO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Remove birds to pieces of toast ; thicken milk with one cup 
flour creamed with one cup butter, season to taste, and 
pour it over birds and toast. 

Veal Loaf I 

10 pounds veal from 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

the forequarter 3 tablespoons salt 

i^ pounds fat salt pork i teaspoon pepper 

18 common crackers 2 tablespoons minced onion 

f cup thin cream 2 tablespoons sage 

Put veal and pork through meat grinder, roll crackers, 
and mix all ingredients thoroughly. Pack in brick-shaped 
pans, bake slowly three hours, basting with pork fat. 
Serve cold, cut in thin slices. 

Veal Loaf II 

10 pounds veal from i teaspoon pepper 

forequarter Salt to taste 

I pound bacon 3 or 4 onions 

Cook veal and onions in boiling water to barely cover, 
until tender; remove meat and let get cold. Left-over 
roast veal may be substituted for a part of the meat, in 
which case it would be ready for use without boiling. Put 
veal and bacon through meat grinder, season well, and 
moisten with enough stock to pack. Put in brick-shaped 
pans, set pans in larger ones containing water, and cook 
one hour or longer in a moderate oven. Let loaves get 
perfectly cold before removing from pans. 

Veal Hearts 

Wash twelve veal hearts, but do not let them soak. 
With a pair of scissors cut out veins and arteries. Fill 



MEATS lOI 

cavities with stuffing and sew edges of opening together. 
Saute the hearts in salt pork fat; then put in kettle with 
two quarts boiling water. Cover closely and cook three 
hours in Aladdin oven, or in range with slow heat. Re- 
move hearts to platters. Thicken liquid in pan with one 
cup flour mixed till smooth with cold water ; season to taste 
with salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet. If sauce is too 
thick, add a little hot water. Serve in gravy boats. Serve 
with the hearts onions which have been boiled until very 
soft, then browned slightly in butter. 

Stuffing 

I quart small, dry pieces 4 tablespoons finely- 

of bread chopped onion 

4 teaspoons thyme 3 eggs well beaten 

I tablespoon salt i cup melted drippings 

I teaspoon marjoram | teaspoon sage 

"I teaspoon pepper Water if needed 

Put dry bread into cold water, then wring dry in a cloth 
before crumbling. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 

PORK 

Pork Chops 

Wipe fifteen to twenty pounds chops, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, put in hot frying pans, and cook slowly until 
well browned on each side. 

Baked Pork Chops 

Wipe chops, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put on racks 
in dripping pans, and cook forty-five minutes, or until 
done, in a hot oven, turning when half cooked. 



102 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Roast Pork 

Wipe fifteen to twenty pounds pork, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, put on rack in dripping pans, cook from three 
to four hours in range, or from five to six hours in Aladdin 
oven. If desired, gravy may be made as for other roasts. 

Barbecued Fresh Ham 

Wipe a large, fresh ham and score rind with sharp 
knife. Mix one tablespoon of mustard seed, half a tea- 
spoon each of celery seed and peppercorns with one cup 
sugar, one cup of vinegar, and two cups water ; let stand 
ten or fifteen minutes. Pour this pickle over ham, letting 
it stand several hours, or over night, and turning it several 
times. Put into dripping pan, fat side down, and cook in 
Aladdin oven six hours; or put in covered roaster and 
cook in range four hours. Strain the pickle and keep it 
hot, basting occasionally with it until all is used. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Boiled or Baked Ham 

Soak over night two well-scrubbed nine-pound hams. 
Put into cold water with one tablespoon pickling spice, 
six slices carrot, six slices onion, two stalks celery, one 
teaspoon celery salt, three sprigs parsley, and one-half cup 
strong vinegar. Bring to boil and cook slowly five or 
more hours, or until tender. Do not overcook, or it will 
be difiicult to carve nicely. If it is to be served cold, let it 
cool in the water in which it was cooked. 

For baked ham, remove skin and cover with following 
paste: one cup brown sugar, one cup soft, fine bread 
crumbs, one teaspoon mustard, and enough vinegar to hold 
the paste together. Stick ham with cloves and make in- 



MEATS 103 

cislons over entire surface. Bake one hour, basting with 
one cup water mixed with one-fourth cup vinegar and 
two tablespoons brown sugar. Serve hot or cold. 

Broiled Ham 

Have eight pounds or more ham cut in thin slices. 
Soak one hour in lukewarm water, drain, wipe, and broil 
three minutes. 

Fried Ham 

Have ham cut in thicker slices than for broiling. Wipe,, 
remove rind, and soak in lukewarm water for an hour. 
Drain, dry on cheesecloth. Put into hissing-hot frying 
pans and brown quickly, first on one side, then on the 
other. Do not cook too long, or the ham will be hard and 
dry. Serve with eggs fried in the ham fat, or with the 
following sauce poured over ham just before serving: 
Pour off any clear fat in frying pan, then add one and 
one-half cups vinegar, four tablespoons prepared mustard, 
four tablespoons sugar, and one teaspoon paprika, and 
bring to boiHng point. 

Bacon 

Have bacon cut in very thin slices. Put in dripping 
pans, crowding slices closely together. Cook in hot oven 
until a golden brown, removing the pieces with skimmer 
or fork as soon as done. They will not be crisp until lifted 
out of the fat. Keep in warm place until ready to serve. 

Sausages 

Cut apart ten pounds link sausages and wipe with a wet 
cloth. Pierce each one in several places with a fork. Lay 
sausages close together on rack in dripping pans, and cook 



104 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

in hot oven until brown and crisp. If overcooked they will 
be dry and tasteless. Serve with Fried or Glazed Apples, 
or mashed potato. 

Frankfurters 

Wipe, cover with boiling water, and cook slowly until 
they rise to the surface of water. Drain, garnish with 
parsley, and serve with mustard pickles and rye bread. 

Frankfurters may also be sauted in salt pork drippings 
or butter, in frying pans. They should be thoroughly 
cooked, and brown and crisp on the surface. 

Scrapple 

Boil six or eight pounds fresh pork in four quarts water 
until so tender that it falls to pieces. Any of the cheaper 
cuts of meat or left-over roast may be used. Strain the 
liquor into fireless cooker kettle. Chop meat finely, remov- 
ing any bones or gristle, and return to liquor. Bring to 
boiling point and thicken with one quart corn meal. Boil 
five minutes, put in cooker, and cook several hours. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Turn into shallow oblong 
pans to mold. Cut in half-inch slices and cook on griddle 
until brown and crisp on both sides. 

Creamed Salt Pork 

I pound fat salt pork i J cups flour 

3 quarts milk Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut pork in half -inch dice, fry until golden brown, 
then add flour, stir until smooth, and remove from fire. 
Heat milk in double boiler, add to above mixture, stirring 
constantly until smooth, and return to double boiler. Cook 
thirty minutes, stirring once or twice. Serve with baked 
potatoes. 



MEATS 105. 

Crisp Salt Pork 

Cut fat salt pork in very thin slices, soak thirty minutes 
in lukewarm water, drain. Dip each piece in flour so that 
each side is well coated, but shaking off any loose flour. 
Put in hot frying pans, and cook until crisp and golden 
brown on each side. Drain, put on hot platters, and serve 
with baked potatoes and cream sauce made as follows : 
Pour off clear fat, reserving one and one-fourth cups of 
the brown drippings in bottom of pans, to use in place 
of pork, and proceed as in Creamed Salt Pork. 



POULTRY AND GAME 
To Select Poultry and Game 

A chicken has soft feet, smooth skin, many pinfeathers, 
and soft cartilage at end of breastbone. A fowl has long 
hairs, thick yellow skin, hard scaly feet, and a breast- 
bone which is hard and bony to the very tip. Fowl are 
preferable for stewing, because of the larger amount of 
meat in proportion to bone. A good turkey also will 
have soft, pliable breastbone. Good geese have many pin- 
feathers. Small birds should be plump, with soft feet 
and pliable bills. 

To Dress and Clean Poultry 

Singe, to remove hairs, by holding bird over a flame 
from gas or burning paper, turning so as to expose all 
parts of surface to blaze. Take out pinfeathers, using a 
small, sharp-pointed knife. Cut off head, turn back skin, 
and cut off neck close to body. Cut through skin around 
leg one inch below leg joint, being careful not to cut 



I06 RECIPES AXD MENUS FOR FIFTY 

tendons. Place leg at this cut over edge of table, and 
press downward to break bone, then take foot in right 
hand, holding bird in left, and pull off foot, drawing out 
with it the tendons. In old birds tendons must be drawn 
separately, using a skewer. 

Make incision in skin below breastbone large enough 
to admit hand. Remove entrails, gizzard, heart, and liver. 
Care must be taken not to break gall bladder, which 'lies 
under liver. Remove lungs and kidneys from hollows each 
side of backbone. Insert two fingers under skin close to 
neck, and draw out windpipe and crop. Remove oil bag. 
Wash bird by letting cold water run through it. Be sure 
that everything has been removed, and that bird is clean, 
then wipe dry inside and out. A disagreeable odor may 
sometimes be removed by washing thoroughly in soda 
water. 

To Stuff and Truss Poultry 

Put enough stufiing in neck end to fill skin moderately 
full ; put remainder in body. Take a few stitches wherever 
necessary to hold cut edges together. Fasten neck skin 
to back with small skewer or stitches. Cross drumsticks, 
tie securely with string, and fasten to tail. Place wings 
close to body, keeping them in place by inserting skewer 
through both wings and body. 

Roast Chicken or Turkey- 
Allow twenty-five pounds dressed, whether chicken, 
fowl, or turkey. 

Dress, clean, stuff, and truss as directed. Rub entire 
surface with salt, and spread breast and legs with butter, 
using one and one-fourth cups. If crusted surface is 



POULTRY AND GAME 10/ 

desired, dredge with flour, or cream butter with one cup 
flour before spreading. Place birds on rack in dripping 
pans and cook required time, turning occasionally so as 
to brown all parts uniformly. Roast turkeys three hours 
or more, chickens from one and one-half to two hours. 
Old birds may be steamed until tender, then roasted. 
Baste often, using one and one-half cups butter melted 
in one quart water. Remove string and skewers before 
serving. 

Plain Stuffing 

4 quarts crumbs " f teaspoon pepper 

I tablespoon salt i tablespoon poultry 

• I cup melted butter seasoning 

Water to moisten 

Crumble stale bread after cutting off any dark crusts. 
If dried bread is used, it should be in small pieces instead 
of crumbs. Put into cold water long enough to soften, 
wring dry in cloth, then crumble. Mix all ingredients 
thoroughly. If crumbly stuffing is wanted, use more 
butter and no water. 

Oyster Stuffing 



4 quarts crumbs 


i teaspoon pepper 


I tablespoon salt 


6 tablespoons finely- 


I cup melted butter 


chopped celery 


4 tablespoons minced 


I or more quarts 


onion 


oysters 



Prepare crumbs as for Plain Stuffing; add butter, 
seasonings, and oysters which have been cleaned and 
drained. 



I08 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Gravy 

I J cups drippings 3 quarts water or stock 

ij cups flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Pour off some of the clear fat, reserving enough of the 
rich brown drippings in bottom of pans for the gravy. 
Turn drippings into large saucepan, add flour, stir until 
smooth, add stock in which giblets, necks, and tips of 
wings have been cooked. Boil five minutes, season, and 
strain. For giblet gravy add to above the finely-chopped 
giblets. 

Broiled Chicken 

Wash chickens which have been dressed and split down 
back for broiling, and wipe dry. Place in dripping pans, 
skin side down, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot over 
with butter, and bake twenty minutes or longer in hot 
oven. Remove to broiler and finish cooking over coals 
or in gas broiler. 

Fried Chicken 

Clean young chickens, singe, and cut in pieces for serv- 
ing. Plunge in cold water, drain, but do not wipe. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Put 
salt pork or other drippings into frying pans to depth of 
one inch ; cook chicken in fat until tender and well browned. 
Remove to platters. Pour off drippings, reserving one 
cup; add one cup flour, stir well, add two and one-half 
quarts rich milk. Stir until smooth and well cooked, strain. 
add two tablespoons finely-chopped parsley, and serve in 
gravy boats. 

Smothered Chicken 

Clean and split young chickens suitable for fryin 
Place in dripping pans, skin side down, sprinkle with Sc 



POULTRY AND GAME lOQ 

and pepper, cover with slices of bacon, dredge with flour. 
Bake in a hot oven forty-five minutes, or until tender, 
basting often. Serve with the following sauce : Pour off 
all but one cup of the drippings in pans, add one cup flour 
and two and one-half quarts thin cream, or half cream 
and half chicken stock. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and cook until thickened. 

Chicken Stew 

Cut up and wash twenty-five pounds dressed fowl. 
Put into kettle, cover with boiling water, and cook slowly 
until tender, adding salt when half cooked. Remove meat 
and thicken stock with flour mixed to smooth, thin paste 
with cold water, allowing one-half cup of flour to one 
quart of liquid. Season to taste with salt and pepper, pour 
over the meat, and serve with Dumplings or small Baking 
Powder Biscuit. 

Chicken a la Jardiniere 

20 pounds dressed fowl 2 quarts canned peas 

4 quarts boiling water 2 cups flour 

2 quarts small onions 2 cups butter or chicken fat 

2 quarts diced carrot Salt and pepper to taste 

Stew fowls in four quarts water until tender, adding salt 
and onions the last hour. Remove fowls from water and 
skim out the onions. When cold, skim fat from liquid 
and remove meat carefully from bones, keeping it as much 
as possible in large pieces. 

Melt two cups butter or chicken fat, stir in flour and 
four quarts of Hquor in which fowls were cooked. It 
saves time to have this reheated before adding to sauce. 
Boil five minutes, stirring constantly ; season to taste and 
add meat. 



no RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Boil carrots in salted water until tender. Heat in double 
boiler canned peas which have been well drained, adding 
salt to taste. Saute the onions slightly in butter. 

Pile meat in center of platters, surrounding with 
vegetables arranged in mounds ; pour sauce over the whole 
and serve with Boiled Rice. 

Chicken Fricassee 

Wash and cut up twenty-five pounds dressed fowl. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and 
brown in pork drippings. Put into kettle, add boiling 
water to nearly cover, and cook slowly three hours or until 
tender. Add enough butter to frying pan in which meat 
was browned to make one and one- fourth cups in all, 
add one and one-fourth cups flour, and three quarts water 
in which fowl was cooked. Boil five minutes, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, strain, and pour it over the 
meat. 

Creole Chicken 

Cut twenty-five pounds dressed fowl in pieces for serv- 
ing, wash, and dry. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in salt pork or bacon drippings. 
Put into kettle with two quarts water and two quarts 
strained tomato ; add two cups sliced onion, three mild red 
or green peppers, finely chopped, three cups diced celery, 
salt and pepper to taste. Simmer three hours, or until 
fowl is tender. Remove to platters and keep hot while 
making sauce. Add butter to frying pan in which fowl 
was browned to make one cup, add one and one-fourth 
cups flour and three quarts of liquor in which fowl was 
cooked. Boil five minutes, season, pour around meat, and 
serve with Boiled Macaroni. 



POULTRY AND GAME III 

Chicken Pie 

Prepare and cook twenty pounds dressed fowl or chicken 
as for Chicken Stew. Remove chicken, skim off fat, and 
thicken four quarts Hquor with one and one-half cups flour 
mixed with cold water to pour easily. Place a small cup 
in center of each baking dish, remove some of the large 
bones from chicken, then arrange it in baking dishes, add 
gravy to come almost to top, cool. Make baking powder 
crust as for Meat Pie, cut in small rounds with biscuit 
cutter, place close together on top of chicken, bake thirty 
minutes, or until done, in hot oven. Serve extra gravy in 
boats. 

Roast Goose 

Singe, remove pin feathers, wash and scrub geese in hot 
soapsuds or soda water. Remove internal organs as from 
fowl, wash in clear water, and wipe dry. Stuff, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, lay thin slices fat salt pork over 
breast. Place on rack in dripping pans, bake two or more 
hours, removing pork the last half hour. Garnish with 
w^atercress, serve with Giblet Sauce made as for Roast 
Chicken. 

Stuffing 

2 cups hot mashed potato J cup butter 

i^ cups soft, stale crumbs . i egg 

J cup chopped salt pork i J teaspoons salt 

J cup chopped onion i teaspoon sage 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. This quantity is sufficient 
for one goose. 

Roast Wild Duck 

Singe, draw, and remove pinfeathers. Wash inside and 
out and wipe dry. Stuff, place on rack in dripping pans. 



112 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover breast with thin 
slices salt pork. Bake from thirty to forty-five minutes 
in hot oven. Domestic ducks should be cooked about twice 
the time allowed for wild ones. Serve with Olive Sauce 
and currant jelly. 

Stuffing 

f cup boiled chopped i tablespoon melted butter 

onions f cup bread crumbs 

f cup chopped sour f teaspoon sage 

apples Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. This amount is enough 
for one duck. Instead of stuffing to be eaten, ducks may 
be stuffed with sour apples, pared, cored, and quartered ,* 
or two or three onions may be substituted for the apples. 

Stewed Rabbits 

Skin, clean, and cut up rabbits, cutting each joint and 
halving the backs. Saute sliced onions in salt pork drip- 
pings, allowing two onions to each rabbit. Skim out the 
onions and saute rabbit, which has been sprinkled with 
salt and pepper and dredged with flour. Pack meat in 
kettle, add onion, salt, and pepper, sweet herbs, and water 
to nearly cover. Cover closely and simmer two hours, or 
until tender. Drain liquor into another saucepan, keeping 
the meat hot over hot water or in Aladdin oven ; thicken 
with six tablespoons flour creamed with six tablespoons 
butter to each quart liquid. Season with salt, pepper, 
tomato catsup, and Worcestershire Sauce; add meat, 
simmer five minutes, and serve. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II3 



General Directions for Using Left-over Meats 

AND Fish 

Remove all gristle, bones, and skin from both meat and 
fish before using in warmed over dishes. Roast beef or 
steak should be stewed until tender in a small amount 
of water before using for meat pies, ragoiits, hash, cro- 
quettes, or other made dishes. Roast beef gravy may be 
poured boiling hot over cold sliced roast beef and served 
at once, but it should not cook in it, or meat will be tough- 
ened, unless it has first been cooked in water several hours. 

Water may be used in place of stock by adding beef 
extract or bouillon cubes to flavor. Kitchen bouquet may 
also be used. Colorless or tasteless sauces may be improved 
by adding kitchen bouquet. 

Salt codfish should soak over night, or for several hours, 
before using. 



Creamed Corned Beef 

8 or more quarts cold 2 small sliced onions 

corned beef cut in i teaspoon celery salt 

dice I teaspoon paprika 

4 quarts milk J cup lemon juice 

2 cups butter 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 cups flour parsley 

Scald onion in milk, then skim out. Cook flour in butter, 
remove from fire, add hot milk, stirring constantly until 
smooth, then cook in double boiler thirty minutes. Add 
seasonings and meat, salt to taste, heat thoroughly, and 
sprinkle with parsley before sending to table. 



114 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Creamed Chicken 

8 or more quarts cold 4 quarts White Sauce II 
chicken or veal cut 2 teaspoons celery salt 
in dice -J teaspoon pepper 

Reheat chicken in sauce, adding celery salt and more 
salt and pepper if needed. Creamed Chicken maybe served 
on toast ; or in border of boiled rice or mashed potato ; or 
with crisp bacon ; or there may be added to sauce sliced 
mushrooms, or cleaned and drained oysters. 

Creamed Dried Beef 

2 or more pounds smoked 4 quarts White Sauce II 
dried beef Salt and pepper to taste 

Shred beef, cover with hot water, let stand ten minutes, 
drain. Add to sauce, heat thoroughly, and season to taste. 

Frizzled Dried Beef 

2 or more pounds smoked 2 cups butter 

dried beef 2 cups flour 

4 quarts hot milk or water Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt butter in large saucepan, add shredded dried beef 
which has been soaked ten minutes in hot water and 
drained. Cook slowly until butter is golden brown, then 
add flour and stir until well mixed with beef. Add hot 
water, stirring until smooth and thoroughly cooked. 
Season to taste. If milk is used, heat it in double boiler, 
and cook the mixture in boiler thirty minutes, as in making 
white sauce. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II5 

Rechauffe of Meat 

i cup drippings 4 quarts brown stock 

1 cup butter 8 quarts diced meat 
6 tablespoons minced i teaspoon pepper 

onion Salt to taste 

2 cups flour I tablespoon mixed herbs 

I quart dried mushrooms 
Cook onion in butter until slightly browned ; add flour 
and stir until browned. Add stock and stir until smooth 
and well cooked. Stir into this sauce the meat and the 
mushrooms, which have been soaked and chopped ; season 
and serve. 

Mutton a la Creole 

f cup chopped green 2J quarts brown stock 

pepper i-J quarts strained tomato 

■J cup minced onion 6 quarts diced mutton 

i^ cups butter 2 quarts cooked macaroni 

2 cups flour 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Salt to taste 

Cook pepper and onion in butter three minutes ; add 
flour, stir until smooth, then add stock and tomato. Simmer 
a few minutes, stirring constantly; add seasonings and 
meat. Heat well and pour it over the cooked macaroni. 

Curry of Mutton 
8 quarts cold mutton or 2 cups butter 

veal 2 cups flour 

4 large chopped onions 3 tablespoons salt 

2 tablespoons curry i teaspoon pepper 

4 quarts stock or water 

Cut meat in one-inch squares. Fry onion in butter until 
soft, add ilour mixed with seasonings, and stock. Boil 



Il6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

three minutes, put in meat, simmer fifteen minutes. Serve 
on platter with border of Boiled Rice or Turkish Pilaf. 

Mexican Ragout 

8 or more quarts cold 2 teaspoons celery salt 

beef, lamb, or veal j cup chopped onion 

diced I cup chopped green pepper 

3 quarts strained tomato 4 teaspoons Worcestershire 

1 quart stock Sauce 

2 cups butter i teaspoon paprika 
2 cups flour Salt to taste 

Cook onion and pepper slowly in butter until soft, stir- 
ring often; add flour, stir until smooth; add stock and 
tomato, cook until smooth and thickened. Put in meat, 
heat thoroughly, season to taste, and serve. 

Ragout of Chicken 

25 pounds chicken or fowl 4 bay leaves 
roasted or boiled 6 peppercorns 

1 pound diced bacon * 4 sprigs parsley 

-J cup bacon drippings 3 quarts Consomme or 

2 sliced carrots stock 

I J cups flour 

Remove skin and bone from cold cooked chicken. The 
meat need not be in pieces of the same size, but should 
not be broken or crumbled. Cook together bacon and 
seasonings for fifteen minutes, being careful not to let 
them get very brown. Add flour, cook until light brown, 
then stir in the stock. Put in all the trimmings from 
chicken, and cook in Aladdin oven or on back of range 
one hour ; strain. Put in carefully the pieces of chicken ; 
simmer forty-five minutes. Garnish with triangles of 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II/ 

toast. Cooked veal may be substituted for part of the 
chicken. 

Casserole o£ Rice and Meat 



2 


quarts uncooked rice 


3 tablespoons chopped 


4i 


quarts cold meat 


parsley 




chopped finely 


3 tablespoons chopped 


4 


or 5 teaspoons salt 


onion 


4 


eggs 


2 teaspoons thyme 


I 


teaspoon celery salt 


I cup cracker or bread 


I 


teaspoon pepper 


crumbs 



1 teaspoon marjoram 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Cook rice as for Boiled Rice. Add seasonings, egg, and 
crumbs to meat. Mix well and moisten with stock or 
water enough to pack easily. 

Butter molds, line bottom and sides with rice, pack in 
the meat, cover closely with rice, steam forty minutes. 
Turn out on hot platters. Serve with Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce poured around casseroles, or put in sauce 
boats. 

Chicken or Veal Souffle 

3 quarts scalded milk 3 cups soft, stale bread 

f cup butter crumbs 

f cup flour 3 quarts cold, cooked, finely- 

2 tablespoons salt chopped chicken or veal 
I teaspoon pepper 18 eggs 

6 tablespoons chopped parsley 

IMake sauce of the first five ingredients, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Add bread crumbs five minutes 
before removing from double boiler. Add chicken, yolks 
of eggs, and parsley. Fold in stiffly-beaten whites, put in 



Il8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

buttered baking dishes, bake thirty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Serve with Mushroom Sauce. 

Beef Souffl6 

Make same as Chicken Souffle, using beef stock instead 
of milk, and beef instead of chicken. Serve with Mush- 
room or Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce. 

Cottage Pie 

Cut remnants of beef roast or steak in small pieces, add 
boiling water and two or three sliced onions, and simmer 
until tender. Season highly with salt and pepper, and 
thicken liquid with flour mixed to a smooth, thin paste 
with cold water. Add gravy left from roasts. Put a layer 
of hot mashed potato in bottom of greased baking dishes, 
then a thick layer of prepared meat, and cover with a 
layer of potato. Bake in hot oven until potato is slightly 
browned. 

Meat Pie 

Cut cold beef roast or steak in one-inch cubes ; there 
should be nine quarts or more. Put in kettle, add three 
sliced onions and four quarts boiling water. Simmer 
slowly two hours or until tender. Skim out meat and put 
into baking dishes. Mix one and one-half cups flour with 
cold water to pour, stir into hot liquid, bring to boiling 
point, and season to taste. Cover meat with a layer of cold 
sliced potatoes, or those which have been peeled, sliced, 
and parboiled until nearly done. Pour in gravy to moisten 
well, but not to come quite to top. Cover with the follow- 
ing crust, bake thirty minutes, or until done, in hot oven. 
Serve remainder of gravy in boats. Potatoes may be 
omitted and more meat used. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II^ 

Baking Powder Crust 

2j quarts flour 5 teaspoons salt 

3I cups milk or milk 6f tablespoons baking 

and water powder 

I J cups shortening 

Sift dry ingredients together, and cut or rub in shorten- 
ing. Add liquid gradually, mixing with knife to as soft 
a dough as can be handled. Roll and cut as for Baking" 
Powder Biscuit. Cut in small rounds, place close together 
on top of meat mixture, bake about twenty minutes in hot 
oven. Or roll out in a sheet that will just fit baking dish, 
cut a hole an inch in diameter in center, place on meat, 
and bake thirty minutes, or till done, in hot oven. Still 
another method is to mix dough to a stiff drop batter, and 
drop by spoonfuls on top of meat. 

Corned Beef Hash 

Mix thoroughly finely-chopped corned beef and chopped 
or mashed potato. Do not cut off all the fat, as it improves 
the flavor of hash. Moisten with stock in which meat was 
cooked, and season to taste with salt and pepper. The 
proportions of meat and potato may vary from equal parts 
of each to two-thirds potato, according to taste or materials 
at hand, but there should be from ten to twelve quarts of 
the mixture. 

Melt beef drippings to barely cover bottom of frying 
pans, put in hash, packing it in well, cook in oven until 
bottom and sides are brown and crisp. About an hour will 
be required with an oven full of pans, which require more 
or less changing around, in order that hash be uniformly 
browned. Fold like an omelet, or turn out on round 



120 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

platters with brown crust uppermost. Garnish with pars- 
ley. Serve with it Chili sauce, tomato catsup, or cucumber 
pickles. 

Vegetable Hash 

Prepare, cook, and serve as Corned Beef Hash, substi- 
tuting vegetables for all or a portion of the potato. 
Chopped beets, turnips, carrots, onion, and cabbage may 
be used, in any convenient proportion and combination, 
allowing one-third meat to two-thirds vegetables, if 
possible. 

Beef Hash f 

Prepare, cook, and serve as Corned Beef Hash. Use 
any remnants of cooked lamb, veal, pork, or beef, first 
stewing roast or steak in a small amount of water until 
tender. Cook one cup each minced onion and mild green 
pepper in two cups pork, bacon, or beef drippings until 
soft, then add to hash. Season with salt, pepper, celery 
salt, or finely-minced celery, and half a cup minced parsley. 

Baked Mince v^^ith Eggs 

4 quarts cooked veal, lamb, i teaspoon pepper 

or chicken -J cup chopped onion 

2 quarts cooked ham 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 quarts soft bread crumbs parsley 

Salt to taste 

Remove skin, gristle, and bones from meat, and chop 
iine before measuring. Mix ingredients thoroughly, and 
moisten well with stock or water. Put in greased baking 
dishes, cover and cook thirty minutes in moderately hot 
oven. Break required number of eggs on top of mince, 



LEFT-OVER MEATS 121 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover again, and cook until 
whites are set. Send to table in baking dishes. 

Meat Cakes 

7 quarts finely-chopped i teaspoon paprika 

cooked meat 3 tablespoons mixed herbs 

3 quarts soft crumbs I cup drippings 

f cup minced onion Stock or water to moisten 

Chop meat fine. Crumble soft, stale crumbs ; or soak 
pieces of dried bread in cold water, then wring dry in 
cloth before crumbling. Cook onion in drippings until 
soft, and add to mince. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, 
moistening enough to shape easily. Ten or twelve beaten 
eggs may be added, in which case less stock will be needed. 
Season to taste with salt. Shape in cakes, and brown in 
pork or bacon fat to barely cover bottom of frying pans. 

The above mixture may be packed in vrell-greased bread 
pans and baked one hour in moderate oven. Turn out on 
platters, garnish with parsley, or parsley and sliced toma- 
toes, and serve with Mushroom or Tomato Sauce. 

Minced Meat on Toast 

6 or more quarts minced Salt and pepper to taste 

meat i^ tablespoons Worcester- 

3 or more quarts brown shire Sauce or 

gravy -J cup tomato catsup 

Gravy left from beef, lamb, veal, or chicken roast may 
be used. Bring gravy to boiling point, add minced meat 
and seasonings. Toast half slices of bread until nicely 
browned and dried, dip in salted water, arrange on platters, 
pour meat over toast, and serve. 



122 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Ham Hash 

7 quarts chopped potato Salt to taste 

3-I quarts chopped ham | cup flour 

■J teaspoon pepper 6 cups milk 

Chop ham and potato rather coarsely, mix well, and 
season. Put into baking dishes or frying pans, sprinkle 
with the flour, and add the milk. Cook in oven or on 
back of range until it is thoroughly heated and the milk 
is absorbed. 

Croquettes 

Croquettes may be made from meat, fish, vegetables, 
and cereals, alone or in any desired combination. ]\Ieat 
and fish are usually mixed with a thick sauce, but cold 
cooked cereal may be substituted for the sauce. 

With a sauce the croquette mixture must be spread in 
shallow pans and allowed to stand several hours or over 
night to stiffen. 

Croquettes made with cold cereal instead of sauce, or of 
vegetables mixed with egg, may be shaped at once. 

Croquettes should be soft and creamy inside, and 
shapely, crisp, and brown outside. If the mixture proves 
to be too soft to handle, a little fine cracker dust may be 
added. It is better to roll croquettes in bread rather than 
cracker crumbs. The bread should be dried without brown- 
ing, rolled and sifted. 

Croquettes are cooked in deep fat, and should brown 
in one minute. To test the fat, put in some white bread 
crumbs; they should brown in one-half minute. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS I23 

Meat Croquettes with Sauce 

2j cups butter -J teaspoon pepper 

3 cups flour 2 teaspoons celery salt 

2 J quarts stock Onion juice to taste 

3 teaspoons salt 5 quarts cooked meat 

Use any remnants of cooked meat. Trim off gristle, 
fat, and skin, and chop finely before measuring. Melt 
butter, add flour, and when smooth, stir in hot stock, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth and cooked. Season, add 
meat, and more seasonings if needed. Cool, shape, roll in 
crumbs, egg, and crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain on brown 
paper. Serve with or without sauce. This quantity makes 
about one hundred, allowing two rounded tablespoon fuls 
of mixture for each, or two hundred of the usual size. 

Meat Croquettes vi^ithout Sauce 

5 quarts cold meat i cup finely-chopped 
2j quarts cold cereal celery 

■J cup chopped green i cup minced onion 

pepper Salt and pepper to taste 

Use any remnants of cold meat, and chop fine before 
measuring. Put meat, cereal, onion, and pepper through 
meat grinder. Chop celery very fine. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly, shape, roll in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again. 
Fry in deep fat, drain. Serve with Tomato, Brown, or 
Olive Sauce. This makes one hundred large croquettes, 
or two hundred of the usual size. 

Chicken or Veal Croquettes 

Make as for Meat Croquettes with or without Sauce, 
using all chicken or veal for the meat, substituting milk 



124 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

for the stock in sauce, and adding three tablespoons 
chopped parsley. If cereal is used, it should be light in 
color. 

Fish Croquettes 

Make as for Meat Croquettes with or without Sauce, 
using any cooked fresh fish in place of meat, substituting 
milk for stock in sauce, and adding three tablespoons 
lemon juice. If cereal is used, it should be farina, hominy, 
cream of wheat, or some other light-colored cereal. 

Creamed Finnan Haddie 
12 pounds finnan haddie 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Lay fish in large pan, cover with cold water, bring 
slowly to boiling point, simmer twenty-five minutes, drain. 
Separate carefully into flakes, add to white sauce, reheat, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, serve. Left-over fish may 
be used. 

Scalloped Fish 

3 quarts milk ij cups butter 
6 bay leaves ij cups flour 

6 sprigs parsley -J teaspoon pepper 

6 slices onion 4 quarts cold flaked fish 

4 teaspoons salt 3 cups stale crumbs 

Ma'-e a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, first re- 
moving the parsley, bay leaves, and onion which have been 
scalded in milk. Carefully flake, or cut into inch pieces, 
cold cod, haddock, halibut, salmon, or other fish. Arrange 
half the fish in bottom of buttered baking dishes, being 
careful not to break flakes ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
pour over half the sauce; repeat. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, bake in hot oven fifteen minutes, or until crumbs 



LEFT-OVER FISH I25 

are brown. Canned salmon may be used, eight pint cans 
being equivalent to four quarts of fresh fish. 

Creamed Salt Codfish 

4 quarts milk Salt to taste 

2 cups butter 3 pounds codfish 

2 cups flour I teaspoon pepper 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Put codfish into four 
quarts cold water, bring slowly to simmering point, simmer 
forty-five minutes, or until soft ; drain. Lay fish on board, 
and with a fork shred very fine, add to sauce, and season 
to taste. 

Serve alone, with baked potatoes, or in a border of 
mashed potatoes. 

Fish Hash 

5 quarts cold boiled potato i teaspoon pepper 

5 quarts cold fish Salt pork or bacon 
Salt to taste drippings 

Chop potatoes very fine, mix with minced fish and salt 
and pepper. Melt fat in pans, add fish mixture, stirring 
until well moistened, then cook slowly until well browned. 
Fold like omelet, serve with crisp bacon. 

Salmon Loaf y' 

6 pint cans salmon 3 cups or more milk or 
4^ quarts dried bread water 

in small pieces Salt and pepper to taste 

12 eggs 

Soften bread in milk. Pick out skin and bones from 
salmon, but leave liquor. Mix all ingredients together 



126 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

very thoroughly, pack in brick-shaped pans, set in larger 
pans containing water, bake from forty-five to sixty 
minutes. Turn out on platters, garnish with parsley. 
Serve with Egg or Pickle Sauce. 

Salmon Surprise 

i-J quarts rice Salt 

6 pint cans salmon Pepper 

Cook rice as given under Table for Cookery of Cereals. 
Remove bones and skin from canned or fresh boiled 
salmon. Line bread tins with the warm steamed rice, fill 
centers with salmon, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover 
with rice. Steam one hour, remove to platters, serve with 
Egg Sauce. This quantity is sufficient to fill six tins nine 
and one-half inches long by four and one-fourth wide. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH 

White Sauce I 

f cup butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter in large sauce- 
pan, add flour, stir until smooth, and remove from fire. 
Add hot milk, stirring constantly until smooth ; return to 
double boiler and cook thirty minutes, beating hard two 
or three times. If not smooth, beat with Dover egg beater. 
Add salt just before serving. By following these direc- 
tions there is no possible danger of scorching milk or 
sauce. This sauce is used for scalloped dishes. 

White Sauce II 

I cup butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Make same as White Sauce I. This sauce is used for 
creamed dishes. 

White Sauce III 

2j cups butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

2^ cups flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Make same as White Sauce I. This sauce is used for 
croquettes. 

127 



128 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Drawn Butter Sauce 
I J cups butter 2 quarts hot water 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

•J teaspoon pepper 

Melt one cup butter, stir in flour mixed with seasonings, 
and when smooth add boiling water, stirring constantly 
until it boils. Boil five minutes, stir in remaining butter. 
Serve with boiled or baked fish, or boiled parsnips. 

Egg Sauce 

To Drawn Butter Sauce add ten hard-cooked eggs, 
sliced or chopped. Serve with baked or boiled fish. 

Pickle Sauce 
To Drawn Butter Sauce add one teaspoon paprika and 
two cups sour cucumber pickles, chopped or sliced, and 
drained. Serve with boiled or baked fish, or boiled mutton. 







Brown 


Sauce 


li 


cups butter 




6 sprigs parsley 


2 


small sliced 


onions 


ij cups flour 


8 


slices carrot 




2 quarts brown stock 


4 


bay leaves 




2 teaspoons salt 



•J teaspoon pepper 

Cook first five ingredients together until browned but 
not burned, add flour. Stir until browned and add hot 
stock, stirring constantly until it boils. Boil three minutes, 
strain, and season. If a plainer sauce is desired, omit 
carrot, parsley, and bay leaves. 

Mushroom Sauce 
To Brown Sauce add two cans mushrooms, drained, 
rinsed, and sliced. Or use dried mushrooms, soaked and 
sliced. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH 129 

Piquante Sauce 

Make Brown Sauce. Before serving, add one-half cup 
vinegar, one teaspoon paprika, and one-half cup each 
chopped sour cucumber pickles and capers, and heat to 
boiling point. 

Spanish Sauce 

I scant cup bacon fat ij quarts stock 

I cup chopped onion ^ teaspoon pepper 

I cup chopped pepper 2 teaspoons salt 

I cup fiour 2 teaspoons kitchen 

1 pint strained tomato bouquet 

I can chopped mushrooms 

Cook onion and pepper slowly in bacon fat until soft, 
add flour, and cook two minutes. Add stock and tomato, 
stirring until it boils. Boil five minutes, season, and serve. 
The mushrooms may be omitted. Serve with roast beef, 
beefsteak, lamb chops, or veal roast. 

Plain Tomato Sauce 

Make same as White Sauce I or White Sauce II, sub- 
stituting strained tomato for milk. 

Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce 

2 quarts strained tomato 4 sprigs parsley 
I cup butter 8 cloves 

4 slices onion -J teaspoon pepper 

4 slices carrot 2 teaspoons salt 

4 bay leaves i cup flour 

Melt butter ; when it bubbles, put in onion, carrot, pars- 
ley, bay leaves, and cloves, cook until slightly browned; 
remove seasonings. Add flour, stir until smooth, then add 
hot strained tomato, bring to boiling point, and serve. 



130 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Bechamel Sauce 

I quart white stock 2 medium-sized onions 

I quart scalded milk i teaspoon thyme 

I cup butter 6 bay leaves 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

•J teaspoon pepper 

Cook onion, thyme, and bay leaves slowly in butter ten 
minutes. Stir in flour, and when smooth add hot milk 
and stock, stirring constantly until thickened and boiled ; 
strain. The seasonings may be cooked in stock instead of 
in butter, but be sure there is a full quart of liquid after 
straining. The sauce itself need not be strained, in that 
case. A yellow sauce may be made by stirring the sauce 
into the beaten yolks of eight tgg^. 



Currant Jelly Sauce 

Make one and one-half quarts Brown Gravy. Add two 
half -pint jars currant jelly, stirring until dissolved. Serve 
with roast lamb. 

Philadelphia Relish 

4 quarts chopped cabbage i-J teaspoons mustard 

6 mild green peppers seed 

6 mild red peppers 3 teaspoons salt 

I J quarts chopped celery 3 cups brown sugar 

2 tablespoons celery seed 2 cups vinegar 

Chop fine the first four ingredients, mix, and set in 
cool place until ready to serve, then add seasonings, 
vinegar, and sugar. Serve with roast meat or fried oysters. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH I3I 

Mattre d'Hotel Butter 

I -J cups butter 3 tablespoons finely- 

I tablespoon salt chopped parsley 

J teaspoon pepper J cup lemon juice 

Cream butter, add salt, pepper, and parsley, and lemon 
juice very slowly. 

Tartare Sauce 

1 quart Mayonnaise J cup chopped pickles 

dressing 2 tablespoons chopped onion 

J cup capers 2 tablespoons chopped 

J cup stoned olives parsley 

Chop very fine the capers, olives, pickles, onion, and 
parsley, and add to Mayonnaise just before serving. Serve 
with fried cod, haddock, halibut, or smelts. 

Horseradish Sauce 

To one and one-half cups well-drained, prepared horse- 
radish add two cups thick cream beaten until quite creamy, 
but not stiff. Season with paprika and salt. Serve with 
cold sliced tongue or roast beef. 

Cucumber Sauce 

4 large cucumbers J teaspoon paprika 

2 teaspoons salt J cup vinegar 

J teaspoon pepper i cup thick cream 

Peel cucumbers, of which there should be more than 
four, if they are not quite large. Cut in quarters length- 
wise and remove any large seeds. Chop fine and drain, 
or squeeze dry through cheesecloth. Add seasonings, 



132 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

vinegar, and cream which should be beaten until quite 
stiff. Serve with broiled fish. 



Mustard Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter i cup sugar 

■J cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons mustard i quart vinegar 

1 tablespoon turmeric J teaspoon pepper 

If vinegar is very strong, use one cup water and three 
cups vinegar. Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar slowly, 
stirring until perfectly smooth. Boil until thick and 
smooth, stirring constantly ; add butter and remove from 
fire. Serve cold with ham or corned beef. 

Mint Sauce I 

2 bunches or 2 cups | cup sugar 

chopped mint 3 cups vinegar 

If vinegar is very strong, dilute with water. Wash mint 
thoroughly, remove stems and old leaves, drain, and chop. 
Mix with sugar, let stand from thirty to sixty minutes. 
Add vinegar and let stand one or more hours. 

Mint Sauce II 

6 half -pint jars currant 2 tablespoons finely- 
or barberry jelly chopped mint leaves 

Separate jelly in pieces and sprinkle chopped mint over 
top. Serve with roast lamb. 



VEGETABLES 

All vegetables should be thoroughly washed in cold 
water ; and roots and vegetables should be scrubbed with 
a small brush kept for that purpose. Wilted vegetables 
may be somewhat freshened by soaking an hour or so in 
cold water. 

Put all fresh vegetables into boiling water to cook, and 
drain as soon as tender. Soak dried vegetables several 
hours in cold water. Cook spinach, corn, and similar 
vegetables in the water in which they are soaked; but 
drain beans and add fresh water before cooking. In either 
case the water should be brought slowly to boiling point, 
and vegetables simmered until done. 

Canned beans, peas, and similar vegetables should be 
turned carefully into a colander and rinsed thoroughly in 
cold water, then left an hour or so to aerate before using. 

For the sake of greater accuracy, quantities are often 
given by weight instead of measure. 

Use one and one-half tablespoons salt to one gallon 
water for boiling fresh vegetables, adding it when vege- 
tables are about half done. 

Allow from twenty to thirty minutes for vegetables to 
come to boiling point after boiling water is added. The 
time given below is that required after boiling point is 
reached. It is impossible to give the exact time for 
cooking, as so much depends upon the age and size of 
vegetables. 

Buttered crumbs for scalloped dishes should always be 
soft, stale crumbs, never dried ones. If light in color, the 

^33 



134 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

crusts may be used by grating them. Crumble the bread 
in the fingers, or rub together two pieces of bread. Use 
one-half cup butter to one quart crumbs. 



Time-Table 


FOR Boiling Vegetables 


Vegetables 




Hours 


Minutes 


Asparagus 






30 to 50 


Beets, young 




I to 2 




Beets, old 




3 to 5 




Cabbage 




1 to Ij 




Carrots 




I to 2 




Cauliflower 






30 to 60 


Dandelions 




I to 2 




Onions 






60 to 90 


Parsnips 


- 




45 to 90 


Peas 






20 to 40 


Potatoes 






30 


Squash, summer 






30 to 60 


Spinach and other 


greens 




20 to 60 


Sweet potatoes 






30 to 60 


String beans 




I to 2i 




Shell beans 




I to 2 




Turnips, white 






40 to 60 


Turnips, yellow 




Ij to 2 





Boiled Asparagus 

8 or more large bunches 3 teaspoons salt 

asparagus i or more cups butter 

■J teaspoon pepper 

Cut off tough part of stalks, wash, tie again in bunches, 
place upright in deep kettle of boiling salted water to 



VEGETABLES 135 

nearly cover. Cook twenty to thirty minutes, drain. 
Arrange in dishes, and moisten with melted butter which 
has been mixed with salt and pepper. Or toast half slices 
of bread until nicely browned and well dried ; moisten with 
asparagus water, and place on platters. Arrange aspar- 
agus on toast and pour over it the melted butter. 



Creamed Asparagus 
6 large bunches asparagus 4 quarts White Sauce II 

Cut off tough ends of stalks, wash, and cut in inch pieces. 
Boil in salted water twenty minutes, or until tender, add- 
ing tips when half done. Drain, add to sauce, and serve 
on toast prepared as for Boiled Asparagus. This is a nice 
luncheon dish, served with or without cold meat, broiled 
ham, or crisp bacon. 

Boston Baked Beans 

3 quarts pea beans J cup brown sugar 

4 tablespoons salt i tablespoon mustard 
I cup molasses i teaspoon pepper 

J cup vinegar 2 pounds fat salt pork 

Pick over beans, cover with cold water, and soak over 
night. Drain, cover with cold water, add one teaspoon 
soda, bring to boiling point, and parboil fifteen minutes, 
or until skins burst when exposed to air ; drain. 

Scrape and scald pork rind, cut pork in two pieces, and 
cut through rind every half inch to the depth of one inch. 

Mix salt, sugar, mustard, and pepper, and dilute with 
molasses and vinegar. Put an equal quantity of beans 
and seasonings into each of two bean pots, bury pork in 



136 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

beans, fill pots with boiling water, cover, and cook slowly 
six or eight hours, or more, adding more water if needed. 
The Aladdin oven is excellent for this purpose. 



Stewed Lima Beans 

Soak two and one-half or three quarts dried Lima 
beans in cold water over night, drain. Add five quarts 
cold water, bring to boiling point, and cook slowly two 
hours, or until done, adding salt to taste when half done. 
The beans should be soft but not broken, and the liquid 
quite creamy. More water should be added if they get 
dry. Season with one cup butter, one-half teaspoon 
pepper, and salt to taste. Pea beans may be prepared in 
the same manner. 

Lima Beans with Cream 

Soak three quarts Lima beans in cold water over night 
or for several hours, drain. Cook slowly in plenty of boil- 
ing water until soft but not broken, adding salt when half 
done. Drain, add one quart thin cream or White Sauce I, 
salt and pepper to taste, and let simmer very slowly fifteen 
or twenty minutes on back of range, or over hot water. 



Lima Beans with Tomato 

Soak and cook as for Lima Beans with Cream. Be sure 
that they keep their shape perfectly. Melt one cup butter, 
add drained beans, shaking and stirring carefully until 
butter is absorbed. Add two quarts Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce, mix carefully, then put in oven until well 
heated through. 



VEGETABLES 137 

Flageolets 

Flageolets are similar in shape to Lima beans, but 
greenish in color and much smaller. Cook the same as 
Stewed Lima Beans. If they are to be used for salad, cook 
in a larger quantity of water, and drain as soon as soft. 
They should be whole and glossy. 

Spanish Beans 

3 quarts red kidney beans i teaspoon soda 

1 pound fat salt pork 6 chopped onions 

2 quarts strained tomato 4 to 6 chopped peppers 
5 tablespoons salt i teaspoon paprika 

Soak beans over night, drain, cover with water, add 
soda, boil fifteen minutes, drain. Add diced pork, stewed 
and strained tomato, seasonings, and water to barely cover. 
Simmer gently from eight to ten hours. 

Buttered String Beans 

Remove strings from eight pounds string beans, cut in 
inch pieces, and wash. Cook in boiling salted water from 
one to two and one-half hours, drain. Season with one 
cup butter, one-half teaspoon pepper, and more salt if 
needed. Be careful not to break beans. 

Canned String Beans 

2 No. 10 cans beans i tablespoon salt 

I cup butter ^ teaspoon pepper 

Turn beans carefully into colander and rinse thoroughly 
with cold water; put in double boiler, add melted butter 
mixed with seasonings, and heat for one hour. 



138 RECIPES AXD MENUS FOR FIFTY 

String Beans a la Lyonnaise 

2 gallon cans or 4 teaspoons salt 

8 small cans beans | teaspoon pepper 

3 small onions 3 tablespoons chopped 
2. cups butter parsley 

\ cup lemon juice 

Saute sliced onions in one cup butter until soft and 
yellow. Turn beans carefully into colander and rinse 
with cold water. Turn carefully into double boiler, add 
onion mixture and seasonings, and heat for one hour. 
Cream the other cup of butter, add parsley and lemon 
juice, and add to beans a few minutes before serving. 

Boiled Beets 

15 pounds (i peck) beets f cup sugar 
I cup butter i cup vinegar 

\ teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons salt 

Scrub beets well, but do not cut skin or cut stems close 
to beet, as much of the sweetness and color escape with 
the juices. Cook in boiling water until soft; about one 
hour for young beets, three to five hours for old ones. 
If gas is used for cooking, it is cheaper to use canned beets. 
Six No. 3 cans will be required. When tender, put into 
cold water and rub off skins. Slice, put in double boiler, 
add seasonings, and reheat. 

Savory Beets / 
15 pounds (i peck) beets | cup sugar 
i\ cups butter i cup strong vinegar 

i^ cups flour 2 tablespoons salt 

6 cups beet water \ teaspoon pepper 

Prepare and cook as for Boiled Beets and cut in half- 
inch cubes. Cream together butter, flour, sugar, salt, and 



VEGETABLES 139 

pepper, add six cups boiling water in which beets were 
cooked, stirring constantly until smooth and well cooked. 
Reheat beets in this sauce, using double boiler. The sauce 
is quite thick and merely coats them. 

Brussels Sprouts 

Pick over six quarts Brussels sprouts, removing wilted 
leaves, and soak in cold water thirty minutes or longer. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender, drain, and add 
to three quarts White Sauce 11. 

Maitre d'Hotel Cabbage 

12 to 15 pounds cabbage i teaspoon paprika 
i^ cups butter 4 tablespoons chopped 

I tablespoon salt parsley 

5 tablespoons lemon juice 

Take off outside leaves, cut in quarters, and remove 
tough stalk. Soak in cold water for an hour or so, then 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain, chop 
rather coarsely, and reheat with the following sauce: 
Cream butter, add salt and pepper, then lemon juice very 
slowly. Vinegar may be used in place of lemon juice. 
Sprinkle parsley over cabbage after it is put in serving 
dishes. 

Scalloped Cabbage 

10 pounds cabbage 3 quarts White Sauce I 

Cut in quarters, remove outside leaves and stalk, soak 
in cold water thirty minutes or more. Cook in boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain, cut each quarter in 
several pieces, put into six baking dishes, add the white 
sauce, lifting cabbage with fork, that sauce may penetrate. 



140 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cover with buttered crumbs, bake fifteen minutes, or until 
brown. Grated cheese may be added if desired. 

Cold Slaw 

8 pounds trimmed cabbage 2 tablespoons salt 
2 cups strong vinegar -J teaspoon pepper 

2 cups sugar i teaspoon paprika 

Cut oft stalk and outside leaves and weigh. Soak in 
cold water for an hour or so ; drain very dry, chop tine. 
^lix ingredients just before serving. Only crisp, tender 
cabbage should be used for slaw\ 

Cream Slaw 

Prepare as for Cold Slaw, let stand in refrigerator 
fifteen minutes. Drain off most of vinegar and fold in 
one quart of thick cream which has been beaten until stiff. 

Creamed Carrots and Turnips 

6J pounds carrots 3 quarts White Sauce II 

6-J pounds white turnips ^ teaspoon pepper 

Cut carrots and turnips in half-inch cubes and cook 
separately in salted water until soft. Drain and add to 
white sauce. 

Boiled Carrots 

12J pounds (i peck) i teaspoon pepper 

young carrots i cup butter or 

2 tablespoons salt i-| pints thin cream 

Wash, scrape, and cut carrots in one-fourth inch slices. 
Boil thirty minutes, or until soft, in a small amount of 
salted water. Let water nearly all evaporate instead of 



VEGETABLES I4I 

draining it off, if possible to do so without burning the 
carrots. Add butter, pepper, and salt to taste. Old carrots 
may be cooked in the same manner, but lack the sweetness 
and delicacy of flavor of new ones. 

German Carrots 

12 J pounds carrots i cup butter 

2| tablespoons salt i cup flour 

1 teaspoon pepper 6 tablespoons chopped 
J cup sugar parsley 

i teaspoon grated nutmeg 

Wash, scrape or peel, and cut carrots in half-inch cubes. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Cream butter 
and flour together, add two quarts boiling water in which 
carrots were cooked, stirring constantly. Boil five minutes, 
add seasonings and carrots ; let simmer fifteen minutes, 
and serve, sprinkled with parsley. 

Bechamel Carrots 

I2j pounds carrots cut in i cup butter 

one-fourth inch slices ij cups flour 

3 peppers 6 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts stock 2 tablespoons salt or 
I quart or less cream or more 

milk I teaspoon pepper 

Wash carrots, scrape or pare very thin, and slice. Put 
into kettle with stock and seeded peppers, and simmer 
until soft, then remove peppers. Cream together butter, 
flour, and seasonings, and stir into carrot mixture, diluting 
with rich milk or thin cream to make consistency of 
White Sauce 11. Bring to boiling point and serve. 



142 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Buttered Cauliflower 

6 large or 9 medium- ij or 2 cups butter 
sized cauliflowers ^ teaspoon pepper 

Remove leaves and stalks, separate into flowerets, and 
soak in cold salt water thirty minutes or more. Cook in 
salted water until tender but not broken. Drain and turn 
into serving dishes. Add pepper to melted butter and 
pour it over the cauliflower. 

Creamed Cauliflower 

^ Prepare and cook as for Buttered Cauliflower. Drain 

/ and add to three quarts White Sauce II. Grated cheese 

may be added. 

Creamed Celery 

8 quarts celery in pieces 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Wash celery, cut in inch pieces, and cook in salted water 
until tender., Drain and add to white sauce. The coarse 
outside stalks may be utilized in this way. 

Cucumbers 

Wash and pare twelve or more large cucumbers. The 
paring should be thick enough to remove all the green 
coloring. Cut in thin slices and keep in cold water until 
ready to serve. Drain and serve with vinegar, salt, and 
pepper. 

Corn on the Cob 

Remove husks and silky fibers. Boil ten minutes in 
water to cover, remove to platters, cover with napkins. 
Serve at -once with salt and butter. 



VEGETABLES I43 

Corn Pudding 

• 6 No. 2 cans corn 12 eggs beaten slightly 

6 tablespoons sugar 3 quarts stale crumbs 

2 tablespoons salt -J cup butter 

3 quarts milk i teaspoon pepper 

Stale or dry bread should be used, but it must be broken 
or crumbled, not ground or rolled. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly. Put into six buttered baking dishes, set pans 
in hot water, or put asbestos mats underneath. Bake in 
slow oven one hour, or until a knife comes out clean. 
Serve at once. 

Corn Oysters 

2-| quarts corn pulp or 2^ cups flour 

canned corn ij tablespoons salt 

10 well-beaten eggs -J teaspoon pepper 

^lix ingredients thoroughly and cook on hot, well- 
greased griddle, using bacon or pork fat. This makes one 
hundred or more, allowing a rounded tablespoonful of 
the mixture to each oyster. Very nice served with crisp 
bacon. 

Scalloped Corn 

7 No. 2 cans corn 2J tablespoons salt 
I cup butter -J teaspoon pepper 

3 cups milk 2 quarts stale crumbs 

Use stale, not dried, crumbs, anj mix them with melted 
butter. Add milk and seasonings to corn. Put corn into 
six baking dishes, cover with buttered crumbs, bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes, or until crumbs are golden 
brown. 



144 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Eggplant 

Pare six large eggplants and cut in one-third inch 
slices, sprinkle with salt, let stand an hour or more, and 
press out the juice. Drain, dip in crumbs, tgg, and crumbs 
again, and saute in hot fat. 



Greens 

5 or 6 pecks greens 2 or more tablespoons salt 

I cup butter | teaspoon pepper 

Spinach, beet tops, dandelions, Swiss chard, or cowslips 
may be used. If beet greens are used, the little beets may 
be left on or cooked separately and used as garnish. Wash 
greens very thoroughly, picking off wilted leaves and re- 
moving roots. Cook in boiling salted water until tender, 
drain, chop, and reheat with seasonings in double boiler. 
Garnish with hard-cooked eggs and serve with vinegar. 



Boiled Onions 

ij pecks onions -J teaspoon pepper 

2 cups butter Salt to taste 

Peel onions, keeping them under water as much as 
possible while doing so. Put in kettle with plenty of boil- 
ing water and one-half teaspoon soda, boil two minutes, 
drain. Add boiling water to cover, boil five minutes, 
drain. Add more water and two tablespoons salt, boil 
until perfectly tender. It is better that they should lose 
their shape than that they should be underdone. Drain, 
add seasonings, heat thoroughly, and serve. 



VEGETABLES 145 

Creamed Onions 
I peck onions 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions, drain, and add to 
white sauce. 

Scalloped Onions 

I peck onions 3 quarts White Sauce I 

J teaspoon pepper i quart buttered crumbs 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions. If onions are large, 
cut them in quarters after boiling. Put into six buttered 
baking dishes, adding white sauce, pepper, and more salt 
if needed, cover with crumbs, and bake until crumbs are 
slightly browned. 

Sauted Onions 
I peck onions or more J teaspoon pepper 
1 4 cups butter Salt if needed 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions, but be careful that 
they keep their shape. Melt one-half cup butter in frying 
pan, turn in one-third of the onions, sprinkle with pepper, 
and salt if needed, cook until slightly browned, then put 
in serving dishes. Repeat until all the onions are browned. 
Fewer onions may be browned at a time if necessary. 

Parsnips with Drawn Butter Sauce 

14 pounds parsnips 3 quarts water 

1 4 cups butter 3 teaspoons salt 

I J cups flour -J teaspoon pepper 

Wash and scrape parsnips, and cut in one-half inch 
slices lengthwise, then cut slices crosswise in three-inch 
lengths, or thereabouts. Cook in salted water until tender, 



146 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

but not broken. If preferred, the parsnips may be cut 
after boiling. Melt butter, add flour, stir until smooth, 
then add boiling water. Boil five minutes, season, and 
pour over parsnips. 

Saut6d Parsnips 

Wash and scrape parsnips, cook in salted water, and 
drain. They should be slightly underdone. Cut in slices 
lengthwise and brown in pork fat or butter. 

Canned Peas 

2 No. 10 cans peas 2 tablespoons salt 

I cup butter 4 tablespoons sugar 

J teaspoon pepper 

Turn peas carefully into colander, rinse well with cold 
water, and put into double boiler. Melt butter and mix 
well with seasonings, pour over peas. Cook one hour or 
until very hot. Do not stir peas, or they will be crushed 
and unattractive in appearance ; shake kettle two or three 
times instead. 

Stuffed Peppers 

25 large green peppers 2^ quarts minced veal, 
24 quarts crumbs chicken, or chopped 

^ cup chopped onion nuts 

Salt to taste 

Choose mild peppers of uniform size, cut in two length- 
wise, remove seeds and tough white portions. Wash and 
cook in boiling water five minutes. Cook onion in butter 
until soft. Crumble stale, not dried, bread, and mix with 
butter and onion. Add chopped meat or nuts, salt to taste. 



VEGETABLES 147^ 

and stock to moisten so that it will pack. Fill peppers 
rounding full, sprinkle with buttered crumbs, place in drip- 
ping pans with water or stock to cover bottom of pans. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, or until done. 
Serve with Plain Tomato or Brown Sauce. 



Succotash 

4 quarts canned or boiled 4 quarts green beans or 

sweet corn 2 quarts dried Lima beans 

3 tablespoons salt J teaspoon pepper 

I cup butter 

Cut hot or cold boiled sweet corn from cob, or use 
canned corn. If dried beans are used, soak them over 
night, drain, and cook slowly in water to barely cover 
until soft. The beans should be soft and whole, and the 
water cooked down to a creamy consistency. If there is 
a great deal of liquid, drain off some of it. Mix beans 
and corn, add seasonings, and let simmer five minutes 
before serving. 

Winter Squash 

30 or more pounds squash Salt to taste 
I cup butter '^ Sugar if needed 

Cut squash in halves, remove seeds and stringy portions, 
place in dripping pans, cover, and bake from two to two 
and one-half hours in moderate oven. Remove from shell 
with iron spoon, mash, and season to taste. 

Squash may be cut in pieces, .freed from seeds and 
stringy parts, pared, and steamed until soft, then mashed 
and seasoned as above. 



148 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

6 quarts canned tomatoes 3 quarts stale crumbs 

2 cups melted butter i cup sugar 

3 tablespoons salt i teaspoon pepper 

The bread should not be dried, but any stale crumbs or 
crusts that can be grated or crumbled with fingers may 
be used; mix with melted butter. Put one cup prepared 
crumbs in bottom of each of six baking dishes. ]\Iix 
seasonings with tomato, then turn into dishes. Cover with 
remaining crumbs. Bake about an hour in moderate oven, 
b)eing careful not to let crumbs burn. 

Scalloped Turnip 

13I pounds white turnip 3 quarts White Sauce I 

Wash turnips, remove a thick paring, cut in half-inch 
cubes, and cook in salted water until soft. Drain, put into 
six baking dishes, pour over the white sauce, cover with 
buttered crumbs, using one quart in all. Bake long enough 
to brown crumbs. 

Turnips New York Style 

12 to 14 pounds yellow 3 cups butter melted 

turnip I teaspoon pepper 

6 tablespoons finely- Salt if needed 
chopped parsley 

Pare turnips, removing a thick paring, cut in half -inch 
-cubes, and boil one and one-half hours, or until soft. 
Drain, put into serving dishes, pour over butter mixed 
with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with parsley. 



VEGETABLES 149 

Curried Vegetables 

2 quarts diced potatoes ij cups butter 
2 quarts diced carrots i^ cups flour 
2 quarts diced turnips 2 diced onions 
2 small cans peas i teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons minced I-J tablespoons salt 
parsley i-J tablespoons curry 

3 quarts milk 
Cook carrots, white turnips, and potatoes separately in 
salted water until soft. 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft and yellow, add 
flour mixed with seasonings, stir until smooth, add hot 
milk, stirring constantly until smooth. Cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes. Add vegetables, heat well, turn into 
serving dishes, and sprinkle with parsley. 

Macedoine of Vegetables 

2 quarts diced carrots i quart string beans 

I quart diced white turnips 2 quarts diced potatoes 
I quart green peas 3 quarts Bechamel or 

I quart flageolet beans White Sauce II 

Cut carrots, turnips, and potatoes in half-inch dice, 
string beans in half-inch pieces. The vegetables should 
be cooked separately in boiling water and drained before 
adding to sauce. Add more seasonings if needed. Mix 
lightly and carefully to prevent breaking vegetables. 

Creamed Potatoes 

6 or 8 quarts cold diced 3 or 4 quarts White 

potatoes Sauce II 

-J teaspoon pepper Chopped parsley 

Cut cold boiled or baked potatoes in half-inch cubes. 

Reheat in white sauce, add pepper, and sprinkle with 

chopped parsley if desired. 



150 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

8 quarts diced potatoes 3 tablespoons salt 

■J cup chopped onion J teaspoon pepper 

2j cups bacon fat or 8 tablespoons chopped 
butter parsley 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in half-inch cubes or in slices. 
Cook onion slowly in bacon fat or butter until soft, but 
not brown. Add potatoes and seasonings, and cook until 
fat is absorbed and potatoes well heated and slightly 
l)rowned. Sprinkle with parsley just before serving. Use 
two or three frying pans, and do not put potatoes on to 
cook until about fifteen or twenty minutes before they are 
to be served. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

8 quarts chopped cold i teaspoon pepper 

cooked potatoes 2 tablespoons salt, or more 

2^ cups salt pork fat if needed 

Mix finely-chopped potatoes, melted pork fat, pepper, 
and salt to taste. Spread in shallow frying or baking pans 
and cook on range or in oven until brown underneath. 
Fold like omelet. 

Creamed Potatoes with Eggs 

5 quarts cold diced 3 quarts White Sauce I 

potatoes 24 hard-cooked eggs 

^ teaspoon pepper 

Add diced potatoes and chopped whites to sauce and 
reheat. Turn into serving dishes and strain yolks over top. 



VEGETABLES I5I 

Potato Cakes 

Shape cold mashed potatoes in round, flat cakes, dredge 
with flour or not as preferred, and saute in a very small 
amount of pork or bacon fat in frying pans or on griddle. 

Delmonico Potatoes 

6 quarts cold diced 3 quarts White Sauce I 

potatoes or 3 cups grated cheese 

9 pounds peeled raw ones i quart buttered crumbs 
I teaspoon paprika 

Cook potatoes in salted water until soft, but not broken. 
When perfectly cold, cut in half-inch cubes. Grate cheese, 
sprinkle with paprika, and dissolve in sauce. Put potatoes 
in six baking dishes, pour over the sauce, lifting potatoes 
carefully with fork until sauce is well distributed. Cover 
with crumbs and brown delicately in moderate oven. . 

Baked Potatoes 

Scrub thoroughly one and one-half pecks potatoes of 
uniform size. Trim off any imperfections, put into drip- 
ping pans, and bake in moderately hot oven from one and 
one-half to two hours, for potatoes of medium size. 

Austrian Potatoes 

15 pounds (i peck) -J cup lemon juice 

potatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

3 cups melted butter i teaspoon paprika 

■| teaspoon pepper 

Wash, pare, and cut potatoes in one-eighth inch slices. 
Parboil two minutes in salted water. Drain, put in drip- 



152 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ping pans to depth of about two inches. Bake one hour, 
or until potatoes are soft, basting with butter which has 
been mixed with seasonings. 



Hongroise Potatoes 

10 pounds potatoes cut 6 tablespoons chopped 

in half-inch cubes parsley 

ij cups butter 4 teaspoons salt 

i-| cups flour I teaspoon paprika 

J teaspoon onion juice 3 quarts milk 
6 egg yolks 

Weigh potatoes after peeling. Cook in salted water 
until soft, but not broken. Melt butter, add onion juice 
and flour, and stir until smooth. Add hot milk, stirring 
until smooth, then cook thirty minutes in double boiler. 
Add very gradually to beaten yolks about a quart of hot 
sauce, then return to double boiler, stirring hard until 
smooth. Turn potatoes into serving dishes, pour over 
them the sauce, to which salt and paprika have been added, 
and sprinkle with parsley. 

Mashed Potatoes 

15 pounds (i peck) i quart milk or more 

potatoes I cup butter 

5 tablespoons salt 

Pare potatoes and put into cold water until time for 
cooking. If uneven in size, cut large ones in two. Cook 
in boiling salted water until soft, drain, put through ricer, 
add seasonings, and hot milk in which butter has been 
melted. Beat until creamy, and add more salt or milk 
if needed. 



VEGETABLES I 53 



Mock Potato Puff 



Add enough hot milk to Mashed Potatoes to make them 
a Httle too moist to serve as mashed potatoes, pile lightly 
and unevenly in baking dishes, and put in hot oven long 
enough to brown slightly. Serve in same dishes. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

10 pounds (6 quarts) ij cups butter 

sliced potatoes 3 tablespoons salt 

2 quarts hot milk i teaspoon pepper 

J cup flour 

Peel potatoes before weighing; peel and slice before 
measuring. If potatoes are very large, cut them in two 
lengthwise before slicing. Parboil two minutes to remove 
strong flavor, drain. Put into six baking dishes a layer 
of potato, then a slight dredging of flour; repeat until 
potatoes are used. Dissolve salt, pepper, and butter in hot 
milk, pour over potatoes, cover, and cook in slow oven 
one and one-half hours, or until done. Remove covers 
long enough to brown potatoes delicately. 

Potatoes Baked with Bacon 

Pare one peck potatoes, remove centers lengthwise with 
apple corer. Slice bacon very thin and put a piece in each 
cavity. Place potatoes in dripping pans and bake one and 
one-half hours, or until done, basting occasionally with 
bacon fat. The centers may be used for mashed potatoes. 

Franconia Potatoes 

Pare one peck potatoes of uniform size ; if very large, 
cut them in two. Parboil ten minutes, drain, put in drip- 



154 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ping pans. Pour over them melted beef drippings, and 
bake about one and one-half hours, basting several times 
with fat in pan. The potatoes should be golden brown all 
over. Serve with roast meat. 

Maitre d'Hotel Potatoes 

15 pounds small potatoes i teaspoon pepper 
3 cups butter 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 tablespoons salt parsley 

■J cup lemon juice 

Choose quite small, uniform potatoes, old or new ; peel 
and cook in salted water until soft, but not broken. Drain, 
put in serving dishes, add sauce, and put dishes in oven 
long enough to melt butter. To make sauce, cream butter, 
add seasonings, and lemon juice very slowly. 

Broiled Potatoes 

15 pounds potatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

2 cups butter or pork fat i teaspoon pepper 

Peel potatoes and cook in salted water until nearly, but 
not quite, done. Cut in two or three slices lengthwise, 
lay in dripping pans, dot over with butter, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cook in broiler until done and slightly 
browned on both sides. Use more butter if needed. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

20 pounds (ij pecks) 3 cups sugar 
sweet potatoes i J cups water 

6 tablespoons butter 

Wash and pare potatoes. Cook ten minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, put in 



VEGETABLES 155 

shallow pans. Cook sugar and water together two minutes, 
add butter, and brush potatoes. Bake about forty-five 
minutes, basting with remaining syrup. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

6 quarts mashed potatoes -J teaspoon pepper 
1 4 cups butter 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons salt 12 eggs or 24 yolks 

Mix ingredients thoroughly, cool, shape, roll in crumbs, 
egg, and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. This makes about one 
hundred large croquettes. 



CHEESE DISHES 

Scalloped Cheese 



5 quarts milk 

4 quarts dried or stale 

bread in pieces 
I or more pounds cheese 



5 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons salt 
I teaspoon paprika 
12 to i6 eggs 



Heat milk and pour over bread, which should be quite 
stale, or even dried. Add grated or chopped cheese, cool. 
Add salt, pepper, melted butter, and well-beaten eggs. 
Mix well, pour into buttered baking dishes, and bake 
slowly one and one-half hours, or until done. Serve grape 
jelly with it. 



Cheese Fondue 



2 quarts scalded milk 
2 quarts soft, stale bread 

crumbs 
2 pounds mild American 

cheese 



■J cup butter 
4 teaspoons mustard 
4 teaspoons salt 
I teaspoon paprika 
24 eggs 



Grate or chop cheese. Mix first six ingredients together, 
add well-beaten yolks, cut and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. 
Pour into six buttered baking dishes and bake thirty 
minutes in moderate oven. 



156 



CHEESE DISHES 157 

Cheese Cream Toast 

2 cups butter 4 quarts milk 

2-J cups flour I pound or more cheese 

4 teaspoons salt -J teaspoon paprika 

Make a sauce of the first four ingredients, following 
directions for making White Sauces. Add grated or 
chopped cheese, stir till smooth. Serve on carefully 
browned toast which has been dipped in hot water. Very- 
nice served with crisp bacon as a garnish. 



$ 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

A DINNER salad should be of lettuce, chiccory, Romaine, 
watercress, cucumbers, tomatoes, or other light vegetables, 
served with French Dressing. 

Luncheon salads should be of meat, fish, eggs, or the 
more nutritious vegetables, especially if served as the main 
course. 

All salad plants should be thoroughly washed, and kept 
on ice or in a cold place until served. Shake and wipe dry 
with cheesecloth. The dressing may be added just before 
sending to table or served at table. Green vegetables wilt 
A'ery quickly after the dressing is added. 

Meats or vegetables should be cut in one-half inch cubes, 
and marinated separately with French Dressing for an 
hour or so before using. Drain off any dressing not 
absorbed before mixing with other dressing. Fish should 
be flaked, or cut in cubes or uniform pieces. 

There are many simple and suitable garnishes for 
salads, but care should be taken that harmonious colors 
as well as flavors are combined in a salad. 

Hard-cooked eggs, radishes, and stuffed olives sliced 
crosswise ; canned Spanish peppers, carrots, and beets cut 
in cubes or fancy shapes ; olives, capers, and shredded 
green peppers — all are attractive garnishes, if used 
judiciously. 



158 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS I59 

Boiled Dressing 

2 tablespoons salt 4 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons mustard 6 well-beaten eggs 
■J cup sugar -J cup melted butter 

J teaspoon pepper 4 cups hot milk 

^ teaspoon paprika ij cups hot vinegar 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten eggs, pour on hot milk, 
stirring constantly. Return to double boiler and cook until 
mixture thickens, adding butter when nearly done. Re- 
move from fire and add hot vinegar. Be careful not to 
overcook dressing, or it will curdle. If it does curdle, 
remove from hot water and beat hard with Dover egg 
beater, as that will sometimes restore smoothness. 

Cream Dressing 
2 tablespoons salt 4 eggs or 8 yolks 

I J tablespoons mustard 4 tablespoons butter 
5 tablespoons sugar 3-J cups milk 

5 tablespoons flour f cup vinegar 

■J teaspoon pepper i-J cups heavy cream 

Make as Boiled Dressing. When cold, fold in cream 
which has been beaten until stiff. If dressing is to be 
used with fruit, lemon juice instead of vinegar is an 
improvement. 

Sour Cream Dressing 

2j tablespoons salt 4 well-beaten eggs 

2 tablespoons mustard i quart sour cream 

6 tablespoons sugar i teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons flour i cup vinegar 

Mix cream and beaten eggs ; mix dry ingredients thor- 
oughly, add vinegar, combine mixtures, and cook in double 
boiler until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. 



l6o RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

French Dressing 

ij tablespoons salt -J teaspoon pepper 

I teaspoon mustard i cup vinegar or lemon 

1 teaspoon paprika juice 

2 cups olive oil 

Rub bottom of wide-mouthed pitcher with onion. Put 
all ingredients into pitcher and beat until creamy with 
Dover tgg beater. Serve at once. 

Creole French Dressing 

2 cups olive oil -J cup finely-chopped 
i^ cups vinegar parsley 

2 teaspoons powdered i tablespoon chopped 

sugar red pepper 

J cup finely-chopped 2 tablespoons chopped 

onion green pepper 

4 teaspoons salt 

Mix ingredients in order given, let stand one hour, then 
beat vigorously five minutes. Serve at once. 



Cream French Dressing 

4 teaspoons salt i cup lemon juice or 

^ teaspoon pepper vinegar 

I teaspoon paprika 2 cups olive oil 

I -J cups heavy cream 

Mix ingredients in a wide-mouthed pitcher and beat 
with Dover egg beater until creamy. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS l6l 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

I teaspoon mustard i pint olive oil 

1 teaspoon powdered sugar i tablespoon vinegar 

2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons lemon 
i teaspoon paprika juice 

J teaspoon pepper 2 egg yolks 

2 egg whites 

Mix dry ingredients, stir in yolks of eggs, then beat in, 
drop by drop, a little oil, using Mayonnaise mixer or an 
egg beater. When mixture begins to thicken, add a few 
drops acid, then more oil, and so continue alternating until 
oil is all used. If oil is added too rapidly, mixture will 
curdle. A smooth consistency may be restored by adding 
curdled mixture slowly to yolk of another egg. Stir in 
stiffly-beaten whites. A good quality of cottonseed salad 
oil may be used in place of olive oil, with very satisfactory 
results and at a low cost. This oil is wholesome and cheap, 
and should be used freely in its undisguised form, instead 
of paying for so-called olive oil which is often adulterated 
with cottonseed oil. If the dressing is not to be used at 
once, keep tightly covered in cold place. Before using, 
remove any drops of oil that have collected on top of 
dressing, or on sides of dish, to prevent curdling. 

Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Add to Mayonnaise Dressing, in place of whites of eggs, 
one cup thick cream beaten until stiff. This should be used 
the day it is made. 



l62 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Apple and Celery Salad 

4 quarts apples Cream or Cream Mayon- 

2 quarts celery naise Dressing 

^ cup lemon juice 

Cut apples in one-half inch cubes, and celery in pieces 
of the same size, before measuring. Marinate apples with 
lemon juice or French Dressing, as fast as cut, to prevent 
discoloration. Just before serving mix apple, celery, and 
Cream or Cream Mayonnaise Dressing. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves and put a spoonful of dressing on top of 
each serving. One cup of English walnut meats, broken 
in pieces, may be added, if desired. 

Apple and Banana Salad 

4 quarts apples Cream or Cream Mayon- 

8 large bananas naise 

-J cup lemon juice 

Cut apples in quarters, then in one-fourth inch slices ; 
cut bananas in slices. Mix and serve as Apple and Celery 
Salad. French Dressing may be used instead of lemon 
juice for marinating fruit. 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Cut bananas in two lengthwise, lay each piece on a bed 
of lettuce leaves, mask with Cream or Cream ^Mayonnaise 
Dressing, and sprinkle with chopped nuts — English wal- 
nuts, pecans, or peanuts. 

Cucumber Salad 

Peel and slice eight large or twelve small crisp cucum- 
iDers, pile on lettuce leaves, and serve with French or 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 163, 

Creole Dressing. This salad may be varied by combining 
with sliced radishes, shredded green peppers, or shredded 
Bermuda onions. 

Cabbage Salad 

8 pounds cabbage Boiled Dressing 

Remove outside leaves and stalks from solid, heavy 
heads of cabbage. Cut in quarters, soak for an hour or 
so in cold water. Drain, wipe dry, shred or chop fine, 
mix with Boiled or Sour Cream Dressing, and serve in 
salad bowls or cabbage shells. 

Cabbage and Celery Salad 

4 pounds cabbage Boiled, Sour Cream, or 

4 quarts celery Cream Dressing 

Shred cabbage fine and cut celery stalks in thin slices 
crosswise. Mix and serve as Cabbage Salad. 

Cheese Salad 

Cut Neufchatel cheese in small cubes and serve on 
lettuce leaves or watercress, with French, Creole, or Cream 
French Dressing. 

Or mix cheese with very finely-chopped parsley, lettuce,, 
or watercress, or with paprika, and shape in small balls. 

Uplands Salad 

12 Neufchatel cheeses | cup chopped nuts 

f cup chopped olives i teaspoon salt 

f cup chopped green i teaspoon paprika 
peppers 

Chop olives, mild peppers, and English walnuts very 
fine. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, pack in oblong 



164 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

form, let stand two hours or more. Cut in one-half inch 
slices and break or cut each slice in cubes, serve on lettuce 
leaves with French or Cream French Dressing. Cottage 
cheese may be used instead of Neufchatel. 

Cheese and Pineapple Salad 

6 Neufchatel cheeses French or 

2 No. 3 cans pineapple Cream French Dressing 

Cut cheese and pineapple in one-half inch cubes, arrange 

on lettuce leaves, and serve with French or Cream French 

Dressing. 

V 
Chicken Salad 

5 quarts chicken or 5 quarts celery 

chicken and veal I cup French Dressing 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Cut cold boiled or roasted chicken in one-half inch cubes 
or pieces and marinate with French Dressing. Cut celery 
in half-inch pieces. Just before serving, mix chicken and 
celery, pile on lettuce leaves, and put a tablespoonful 
dressing on top of each serving. Garnish with hard-cooked 

Daisy Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in two crosswise, remove yolks 
without breaking whites, and rub through strainer. Cut 
each half of whites in eight sections lengthwise. Arrange 
lettuce for individual servings, put a spoonful of Mayon- 
naise, Boiled, or Sour Cream Dressing in center of each. 
Place around dressing the white segments, to form petals, 
and sprinkle over dressing the yolks, which have been 
mixed with salt and pepper and rubbed through a strainer. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS ^ 



Egg Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs In slices, place on lettuce leaves, 
and put a spoonful of Mayonnaise or Boiled Dressing on 
top of each serving. 

Fruit Salad 

2 dozen oranges 2 No. 3 cans pineapple 

2 dozen bananas 6 heads lettuce 

Peel bananas and cut in one- fourth inch slices. Peel 
oranges and separate pulp from each section. Drain pine- 
apple and cut in one-half inch cubes. Malaga grapes may 
be used in place of part of the oranges and bananas. Com- 
bine fruits, mix with French Dressing, and serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Macedoine Salad 

2 quarts string beans 2 quarts carrots or beets 

2 quarts peas or flageolets 6 heads lettuce 

Any left-over vegetables, in any proportion, may be used 
instead of those given. Cut string beans in inch pieces, 
carrots and beets in one-half inch cubes. Marinate each 
vegetable separately with French Dressing. Arrange 
lettuce for individual servings, put a small mound of peas 
or flageolets in center, surround with string beans, and 
scatter over top a spoonful of carrot or beet cubes. Serve 
with French or Creole Dressing. 

Tomato Salad 

Tomatoes for salad should be ripe and firm. About 
one peck will be required. Plunge into boiling water for 
a few seconds, peel, cut out stem, and chill. Just before 



i66 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



using, cut in halves, or in half -inch slices crosswise, or 
in six sections lengthwise. Place on lettuce leaves and 
serve with French, Creole, or Cream French Dressing. 
Mayonnaise Dressing is also used sometimes. 
/ Tomato Salad may be varied in many ways, of which 

a few are suggested below. 

Tomato and Pepper. Wash four large, mild green 
peppers, remove seeds and white membranes, cut cross- 
wise in thin shreds or slices, and use as garnish. 

Tomato and Cucumber. Pare six cucumbers, cut in 
dice, and put a spoonful over tomatoes. 

Tomato and Cheese. Cut tomatoes in halves and place 
each on a bed of lettuce leaves. Put on top a few small 
cubes or balls of Neufchatel cheese. Shredded pepper may 
be added if desired. 



Potato Salad 



/ 



9 quarts potato cubes 2I cups olive oil or 

1 quart celery melted butter 
5 tablespoons salt ij cups vinegar 

2 teaspoons pepper | cup chopped green 
I teaspoon paprika peppers 

2 onions finely minced 

Sour cucumber pickles cut in one-half inch cubes may 
be used in place of a part of the vinegar, and celery salt 
in place of the celery. Mix ingredients thoroughly but 
carefully, let stand thirty minutes or so to chill. Serve in 
salad bowl. Garnish with watercress or parsley ; and with 
hard-cooked eggs, chopped pimientos, or stuffed olives cut 
in thin slices. Boiled or Mayonnaise Dressing may be 
served with this salad if desired. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 167 

/ Salmon Salad I 

6 pint cans salmon 6 cups cucumber pickles 

3 quarts coarsely-chopped cut in pieces 

cabbage 6 tablespoons vinegar 

1 tablespoon celery salt I teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons salt 24 hard-cooked eggs 

Remove bones and skin from salmon and break in 
pieces. Cut pickles and eggs in pieces. Mix all ingredi- 
ents together. Garnish with watercress or celery tops. 
Serve in salad bowls or on platters. 

Salmon Salad II 

8 pint cans salmon or 6 heads lettuce 

4 quarts flaked fresh fish Mayonnaise Dressing 

Drain salmon, remove bones and skin, and break in 
pieces. If fresh fish is used, remove bones and skin and 
flake carefully, or cut neatly in pieces. Pile salmon on 
lettuce leaves and put over each serving a spoonful of 
dressing. 



69 



PASTRY 

Plain Paste 

3 quarts flour 2| cups lard 

4 teaspoons salt Cold water 

Mix flour and salt. Add lard, and chop or cut or rub 
with tips of fingers until well mixed. Aloisten to a stiff 
dough with cold water, being careful not to use too much. 
No matter how much shortening is used, if too much 
moisture is added, the crust will be hard and tough. The 
dough should be so dry that it is really difficult to roll. 
If pies are to have an upper crust, reserve two tablespoons 
lard and dot over upper crusts just before putting in oven. 
This gives pies a flaky appearance. 

In making pies with two crusts, the upper crust should 
always be perforated to allow escape of steam. The lower 
crust should be moistened with water around edge before 
pressing together the two edges, in order to prevent 
separation. This quantity of paste makes enough for eight 
or nine pies with two crusts. 

Always bake pies on bottom of range oven or on lower 
grate of gas oven, never on upper grate of oven, or lower 
crust will be underdone. 

Apple Pie 

4j cups sugar ^^^^^ I teaspoon butter 

^ teaspoon nutmeg or -J teaspoon salt 

cinnamon i cup sugar 

Line plates with paste. Pare, core, and cut apples in 
eighths. Mix sugar, salt, and spice; put part of sugar 

i68 



PASTRY 169 

in bottom of plates, fill with apples, cover with remaining 
sugar. Dot over top with bits of butter. Moisten edges 
of lower crusts, put on upper crusts, and press edges firmly 
together. Use above proportions for each pie. 

Pumpkin Pie 

2 quarts milk 4J cups sugar 
12 eggs 6 tablespoons molasses 

3 cans or 3 quarts 2 tablespoons salt 

pumpkin 2 tablespoons ginger 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 

Steam pumpkin and rub through sieve, or use canned. 
Mix sugar, salt, and spices, add pumpkin, beaten eggs, 
milk, and molasses. Bake slowly forty to fifty minutes, 
or until knife comes out clean. This quantity makes eight 
or nine pies. 

Lemon Pie 

7 scant cups sugar if cups lemon juice ^ '^^'^^l^T^^ 

7 cups boiling water 3 tablespoons butter 

1 5 cups cornstarch 9 lemons 

18 ^%'g yolks I cup powdered sugar 

•J teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Mix cornstarch, sale, and sugar, add boiUng water, 
stirring constantly. Cook five minutes and add gradually 
to ^%^ yolks. Add butter, grated rind and juice of lemons. 
Line eight or nine plates with paste, turn in cooled mix- 
ture, bake until pastry is done. Cool slightly, cover with 
meringue made as follows : 

Meringue. Beat egg whites until stiff, add powdered 
sugar gradually, and continue beating, then add flavoring. 
Pile lightly on pies, leaving surface uneven; bake fifteen 
minutes in slow oven. 



170 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Custard Pie 

24 eggs I teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar 4 quarts milk 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt, and milk. Line 
plates with crust, building up fluted rims, and fill with 
mixture. Grate nutmeg over top. Place in hot oven at 
first to set crust. Decrease heat quickly. Bake in slow 
oven until custard is firm in center. This quantity makes 
eight deep pies. 

Blueberry Pie 

6 quarts berries 4 teaspoons vinegar 

2 quarts sugar i teaspoon salt 

Line eight or nine plates with crust. Mix sugar, salt, 
and one cup of flour. Fill crusts with berries, add sugar 
and vinegar, cover with crust, and bake until berries are 
done and crust slightly browned. 

Blackberry or Raspberry Pie 

Use recipe for Blueberry Pie, omitting vinegar and one- 
half the flour. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

4 quarts cranberries 2| quarts sugar 

I J quarts stoned raisins 2| cups water 

■J cup flour 4 tablespoons butter 

Put cranberries and raisins through meat chopper, mix 
with sugar, flour, and water. Line plates with crust, put 
in fining, dot over with butter, cover with crust, and bake 
in moderate oven. 



PASTRY 171 

Cranberry Tart Filling 

6 cups cranberries 6 cups sugar 

3 cups stoned raisins 3 cups water 

Put berries and raisins through meat chopper. Cook all 
ingredients together until of consistency of jam, add six 
teaspoons vanilla. Cool, and use as filling for tarts. 

Mince Meat 

I J quarts chopped meat 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

2 J quarts chopped apple ij teaspoons mace 

1 quart brown sugar i J teaspoons cloves 
f quart granulated sugar J cup vinegar 

2 cups raisins 3 oranges 

2 cups currants 3 lemons 

3 cups molasses f pound citron chopped 
3 cups meat liquor i tablespoon lemon 
Salt to taste extract 

I teaspoon almond extract 

Mix ingredients except oranges, lemons, and flavoring, 
and cook slowly two hours, or until done. Add grated rind 
and juice of lemons and oranges, and extract. 



HOT DESSERTS 

Apple Tapioca 

3 cups minute tapioca 2 teaspoons salt 

3 quarts boiling water 2 cups sugar 

f peck apples 

Add salt and boiling water to tapioca and cook in double 
boiler until transparent. Pare, quarter, and core tart 
apples, put into buttered baking dishes, add sugar and 
tapioca. Bake an hour or more in moderate oven. The 
apples should be quite soft. Serve warm with sugar and 
cream. 

Prune Pudding 

4 quarts milk 2 cups sugar 

I "I cups cornstarch 4 teaspoons vanilla 

18 egg yolks 3 pounds prunes 

3 teaspoons salt 18 egg whites 

Soak prunes twenty-four hours or more in water to 
barely cover them. Cook in same water in double boiler 
until soft ; remove stones. Mix cornstarch, salt, and sugar, 
add hot milk, and cook in double boiler thirty minutes, 
stirring often. Add mixture to beaten yolks, stirring until 
smooth. Put prunes into buttered baking dishes, pour 
over them the custard, bake twenty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Make meringue of egg whites and one cup of sugar 
beaten until stiff, pile lightly on prune mixture, bake in 
very slow oven until slightly browned. Serve warm or 
cold. 

172 



HOT DESSERTS 1 73. 

Cream o£ Rice Pudding 

f cup rice f cup sugar 

2 quarts milk -J teaspoon salt 

J teaspoon cinnamon 

Prepare above proportions for each one of three baking 
dishes. Wash rice, mix ingredients, put into buttered 
baking dishes, and bake slowly from four to five hours, 
or until of a creamy consistency. During first hour stir 
occasionally with a fork. If cooked too fast it will curdle- 
Serve quite warm or very cold. 



Indian Pudding 

4j quarts scalded milk 2 cups molasses 

I J cups Indian meal 4 teaspoons salt 

4 teaspoons ginger 

Add milk slowly to corn meal, cook twenty minutes in 
double boiler, add molasses, salt, and ginger. Pour into 
buttered baking dishes and bake three or four hours in 
slow oven. It will not whey if baked too rapidly. Serve 
with cream. 

Cracker Pudding 

I J pounds crackers | cup butter 

5 quarts scalded milk 5 teaspoons salt 
10 eggs 5 teaspoons cinnamon 

5 cups brown sugar 2 teaspoons nutmeg 
3 cups plumped raisins 

Split crackers, spread with butter, add hot milk, and 
let stand an hour or more. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar 



174 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

mixed with spices, and turn into cracker mixture; add 
raisins. Put into buttered baking dishes, bake slowly one 
hour, or until knife comes out clean. The deeper the bak- 
ing dish the longer the time required for baking. Stir 
occasionally during first half hour. Serve with Vanilla 
Sauce. 

Orange Marmalade Pudding 

4 quarts fine bread 4 quarts milk 

crumbs 18 eggs 

I quart sugar } cup butter 

4 cups orange marmalade 

Cream butter and sugar together, add beaten yolks, 
milk, bread crumbs, and whites beaten to a froth. Put a 
layer in bottom of buttered baking dishes, spread with 
marmalade, then another layer of the custard mixture, 
then one of marmalade, and finish with the custard. Serve 
with sweetened cream or custard sauce. 

Caramel Bread Pudding 

2-| cups sugar 10 well-beaten eggs 

f cup water 3 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts hot milk 5 pints dry bread in small 
■| cup melted butter pieces 

Caramelize sugar, add water, and stir until dissolved, 
then add to hot milk. Turn milk over bread, add salt and 
butter. When lukewarm, add eggs, turn into shallow 
baking dishes, and bake slowly forty-five minutes, or until 
knife comes out clean. Serve with whipped cream and 
caramel sauce made as follows: Caramelize three cups 
sugar until light brown, add three cups water, and simmer 
iifteen minutes, or to a thick syrup. 



HOT DESSERTS I75 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

2j quarts stale bread lo ounces chocolate 

crumbs or dry bread 3 cups sugar 

in small pieces 10 eggs well beaten 

5 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

5 teaspoons vanilla 

Soak bread in hot milk until soft. Melt chocolate in 
saucepan over hot water, add one-half the sugar, and milk 
enough (from the bread and milk) to pour. Mix all in- 
gredients, turn into shallow baking dishes, and bake slowly 
one hour, or until knife comes out clean. Serve with 
Hard or Sunshine Sauce, or with whipped cream. 

Spiced Pudding 

2j quarts dried bread in 2 cups sugar 

small pieces 3 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons mixed spice 
2 cups molasses (cinnamon, cloves, all- 

2 cups raisins spice, nutmeg) 

Soak bread in milk until soft, add other ingredients, and 
mix well. Put into shallow baking dishes and bake slowly 
one hour, or until knife comes out clean. Stir two or three 
times during first fifteen minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Prune Whip 

4 pounds prunes 24 egg whites 

2 pounds sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Soak prunes over night in water to barely cover, cook 
in double boiler until soft, stone, and rub through puree 



1/6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Strainer. The mixture should be quite thick. Add sugar, 
and fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs and lemon juice. 
Put into baking dishes and bake about twenty minutes in 
slow oven. Serve hot or cold, with Soft Custard Sauce 
or sweetened w^hipped cream. 

Other fruits may be used instead of prunes. 

Baked Chocolate Pudding 

I -J cups butter 6 cups flour 

6 cups sugar 3 tablespoons baking 

6 eggs powder 

6 cups milk ij pounds chocolate 

Cream butter, add sugar, and mix well, then stir in 
Avell-beaten eggs. Dissolve chocolate over hot water, add 
milk, combine the two mixtures, and add flour which has 
been sifted with baking powder. If put into six baking 
dishes, it will require about forty minutes in moderate 
oven for baking. Serve at once, as it falls as soon as it 
begins to cool. Serve with Sunshine Sauce. 

Honeycomb Pudding 

5 cups sugar 2-J cups butter 

5 cups flour 2j cups lukewarm milk 

5 cups molasses 5 teaspoons soda 

20 well-beaten eggs 

Mix sugar and flour and add molasses. Melt butter in 
milk and add soda. Combine mixtures and add eggs. 
Turn into well-greased oblong pans and bake in moderate 
oven. Ser\e at once with Cream Sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS 177 

Apple Dumplings 

3 quarts flour i-J cups shortening 

2 tablespoons baking 2 tablespoons salt 

powder 3 cups sugar 

3 cups water 50 apples 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together ; work in 
shortening and add water to moisten enough to roll out. 
Cut paste in rounds one-fourth inch in thickness, place 
an apple in center of each, fill cavity with sugar and cinna- 
mon or nutmeg, draw paste around apple, folding and 
pinching edges together, place in pan rough side down. 
Bake forty-five to sixty minutes. When about half done, 
pour boiling water around apples to depth of one-half inch. 
The apples should be quite soft; they may be tested by 
pricking with fork. 

Serve with Vanilla, Lemon, or Nutmeg Sauce, or with 
sugar and cream. 

Egg Roll 

3 quarts flour 3 cups milk or milk and 

6 eggs water 

4^ teaspoons salt i-J cups shortening 

6 tablespoons baking powder 

Sift dry ingredients together, cut or rub in shortening, 
add milk gradually, mixing to as soft a dough as can be 
handled. Sometimes a little more or less milk must be 
used to make it of the right consistency. This is nice for 
shortcake and puddings. Brush over top of crust with 
milk or white of egg and sprinkle with sugar. Bake in hot 
oven. 



178 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Baked Apple Pudding 

1 peck apples 3 teaspoons cinnamon or 
I J quarts sugar nutmeg 

Egg Roll 

Peel, quarter, and core apples. Fill baking dishes half 
full, add sugar, spice, and water to come half way to top. 
Cover and bake until about half done. Roll Egg Roll 
mixture to one-half inch in thickness and of a size to fit 
baking dishes, make an opening in center, cover apple, and 
bake thirty minutes, or until done, in hot oven. Serve with 
Vanilla or Nutmeg Sauce, or with cream and maple syrup. 
Canned or fresh peaches or berries may be used in the 
same way. Serve with the fruit on top. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

2 quarts flour 4 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt i cup shortening 

6 tablespoons baking 3! cups milk 

powder i cup sugar 

■J peck apples 

Mix dry ingredients ; beat eggs, add milk, and mix with 
dry ingredients, then add melted shortening. Pour into 
well-greased shallow cake pans. Cut apples into sixteenths, 
lay them in parallel rows in the dough, pressing the edges 
lightly into it. Brush top with melted butter, sprinkle with 
one cup sugar mixed with two teaspoons cinnamon. Serve 
with Vanilla or Nutmeg Sauce, or with sugar and cream. 

Fruit Puffs 

Make Egg Roll mixture, using only whites of eggs, 
and milk to make a drop dough. Put a spoonful of canned 



HOT DESSERTS 179 

or preserved peaches or other fruit in bottom of well- 
buttered cups or individual molds, fill cups half full of 
dough, and steam thirty-five minutes. Serve with fruit 
juice sweetened to taste. 

Cottage Pudding 

5 eggs 2j quarts flour 

5 cups sugar 5 teaspoons vanilla 

f cup melted butter 3 tablespoons baking 

3J cups milk powder 

I teaspoon salt 

Sift dry ingredients together, add sugar and milk mixed 
with beaten egg yolks, then melted butter. Fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites of eggs, turn into well-greased shallow pans, 
bake about forty-five minutes in moderate oven. Serve 
with Vanilla, Strawberry, Orange, or Chocolate Sauce I. 

steamed Pudding ^ 

1 4 cups butter 4J tablespoons baking 
2 cups sugar powder 

2j quarts flour i teaspoon salt 

I quart milk 4 eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients and rub in butter with tips 
of fingers. Beat eggs, add milk, and combine mixtures. 
Put in buttered molds, cover, and steam two hours. Serve 
with hot apple sauce and Hard Sauce. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Egg Roll 8 boxes strawberries 

Hull strawberries and cut in pieces. Add sugar to taste 
and let stand for a short time where they will warm 



l80 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

slightly. Pat and roll Egg Roll mixture to one-half inch 
thickness, and bake in hot oven in pie tins or in small 
rounds like biscuit. Split and spread with butter, put 
berries between layers and on top. Serve with the fruit 
juice, and cream if desired. 

Fresh or canned peaches, apricots, raspberries, or other 
fruit may be used in place of strawberries. 



Graham Pudding 

2j cups molasses 2| teaspoons soda 

if cups shortening 2 quarts sifted Graham 

2f cups milk flour 

5 eggs I quart raisins 

5 teaspoons salt 

Melt shortening, add molasses, milk, well-beaten eggs, 
dry ingredients mixed and sifted, and raisins. Steam 
four hours. Serve with Creamy or Sterling Sauce. 



Suet Pudding 

3 cups finely-chopped 3 teaspoons soda 
suet 4 teaspoons salt 

3 cups molasses 2 teaspoons ginger 

3 cups milk 2 teaspoons nutmeg 

2j quarts flour i teaspoon cloves 

I tablespoon cinnamon 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk 
to suet; combine mixtures. Turn into greased molds, 
cover, and steam three hours. Serve with Sterling Sauce. 



PUDDING SAUCES iS/ 

t 

Nutmeg Sauce 

Make same as Lemon Sauce, using four teaspoons lemon 
extract and four teaspoons nutmeg in place of lemon juice. 

Orange Sauce 

6 tablespoons cornstarch Grated rind of one-half 
if cups sugar lemon 

if quarts boiling water i tablespoon lemon juice 

Grated rind of one orange ^ cup orange juice 
f cup butter 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add boiling water, stirring 
until it thickens. Boil fifteen minutes, or cook one hour 
in double boiler. Add butter and fruit juice. Serve hot. 

Strawberry Sauce 

I J cups butter 4 cups powdered 

3 cups strawberry pulp sugar 

and juice 4 egg whites 

Cream butter and sugar together, add stiffly-beaten 
whites and strained strawberries. Beat well before 
serving. 

Sunshine Sauce 
6 egg yolks 3 cups thick cream 

3 cups sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Stir beaten yolks and sugar together, add cream which 
has been whipped until stiff, and vanilla. 

Vanilla Sauce j 

Make like Lemon Sauce, using two tablespoons vanilla 
in place of nutmeg and lemon. 



1 88 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Sterling Sauce 

3 cups butter 6 teaspoons vanilla 

6 cups brown sugar i^ cups cream or milk 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and milk and flavor- 
ing very slowly, to prevent separation. 

Soft Custard Sauce 

i-J quarts milk g tablespoons sugar 

9 ^SS yolks or 2j teaspoons vanilla 

5 small eggs f teaspoon salt 

Beat yolks slightly (if whole eggs are used beat them 
thoroughly) ; add sugar and salt, then pour hot milk 
slowly into them. Return to double boiler and cook until 
mixture thickens; add vanilla. If cooked too much, cus- 
tard will curdle. In that case, set saucepan in cold water 
.and beat custard with Dover Qg§ beater until smooth. 



COLD DESSERTS 

Baked Custard 

6 quarts scalded milk 3 cups sugar 

18 to 36 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt, and slowly the 
scalded milk. Turn into buttered baking dishes placed 
in larger pans containing hot water. Sprinkle with nut- 
meg and bake slowly until custard is firm. When a silver 
knife comes out clean, the custard is done. The smaller 
number of eggs makes a delicious custard, but not one 
which keeps its shape as perfectly as with the larger 
number. 

Caramel Custard 

6 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

18 to 36 eggs 3 cups sugar 

2 tablespoons vanilla 

Put sugar into an iron frying pan, stir constantly until 
melted and light brown in color. Add milk gradually, 
being careful that it does not bubble over when added to 
hot syrup. As soon as sugar is dissolved in milk, add 
to slightly-beaten eggs. Add salt and vanilla, pour into 
buttered baking dishes which have been placed in larger 
pans containing hot water, and bake slowly until custard 
is firm. The custard is done when a knife comes out clean. 
If cooked too long or too fast, custard will whey. The 
larger the number of eggs used, the firmer the custard 
will be. Serve with Caramel Sauce. 

189 



190 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Plain Blanc Mange 

4J quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

2j cups cornstarch 5 teaspoons vanilla if 

3 cups cold milk desired 

I J cups sugar 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt together, and mix to a 
smooth paste with cold milk. Add to scalded milk, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth, and cook forty-five minutes 
in double boiler, stirring occasionally. Serve warm or cold 
with cream and sugar and sweet jelly. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 

4f quarts scalded milk 10 ounces chocolate 

2| cups cornstarch ij cups sugar 

3 cups cold milk ij cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 5 teaspoons vanilla 

Mix cornstarch with cold milk until smooth, add slowly 
to hot milk, and cook in double boiler forty-five minutes, 
stirring often to prevent lumps. 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add sugar and boiling 
water, stir until smooth, and add to above mixture, stir- 
ring until thoroughly mixed. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Ribbon Cornstarch Pudding 

3^ quarts scalded milk 12 eggs 
2 cups cornstarch 4 teaspoons vanilla 

2 cups cold milk 3 ounces chocolate 

2 cups sugar 3 or 4 cups prunes 

2 teaspoons salt 6 tablespoons sugar 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt, moisten with cold milk» 
add to hot milk, and cook forty-five minutes in double 



COLD DESSERTS IQI 

boiler, stirring often. Stir hot mixture into beaten egg 
yolks, add vanilla, and cool slightly, then fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites. Turn one-third of mixture into saucepan, 
mix with it melted chocolate, sugar, and prunes which 
have been stoned and cut in pieces. Cook one minute. 
Put into an oblong mold one-half the white mixture, make 
a smooth, even surface, spread over it the chocolate mix- 
ture, and finish with a layer of white on top. Chill and 
serve with thin cream. 

Caramel Pudding 

6 cups brown sugar 2 cups cold water 

v/ 2 cups butter 2 teaspoons salt 

N\ 4| quarts boiling water 2 tablespoons vanilla 

^ 2I ^ttafts cornstarch 3 cups English walnuts 

Cook sugar and butter together until a rich golden 
brown. Add water and thicken with cornstarch mixed 
to paste with cold water. Stir until smooth and cook 
forty-five minutes in double boiler, stirring often. Add 
salt, vanilla, and nuts. Chill and serve with plain cream. 



Norwegian Prune Pudding 

2-| pounds prunes 5 inch-pieces cinnamon 

2^ quarts cold water i-J quarts boiling water 

5 cups sugar if cups cornstarch 

I teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons lemon juice 

Wash prunes, add cold water, and soak over night. 
Cook in same water in double boiler until soft, remove 
stones, and crack them to obtain meats. Dilute cornstarch 
with enough cold water to pour. Mix prunes, prune juice, 
meats, sugar, cinnamon, and boiling water, and bring to 



192 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

boiling point. Add cornstarch and cook forty-five minutes 
in double boiler. Remove cinnamon, add lemon juice, 
chill, and serve with cream. 

Chocolate Cream 

3^ quarts scalded milk 9 ounces chocolate 

3^ cups sugar 7 eggs 

i-J cups cornstarch 7 teaspoons vanilla 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add milk slowly, and 
Tieat to scalding point. Mix cornstarch, sugar, and two 
teaspoons salt ; add hot milk mixture to it, return to double 
boiler, and cook forty-five minutes, stirring often. Add 
this mixture to beaten yolks, stirring all the time. Cool 
slightly and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. Add vanilla. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Peach Custard 

Drain syrup from six No. 3 or two No. 10 cans of 
peaches, reserving syrup for fruit sherbet. Cut peaches 
in slices and cover with Soft Custard Sauce. Chill before 
serving. 

Bananas sprinkled with a little lemon juice may be used 
in the same way. 

Tapioca Sherbet 

3 cups minute tapioca Juice of 12 lemons 

6 cups sugar 13 egg whites 

3 quarts boiling water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook tapioca, sugar, salt, and water together in dc 
boiler until clear, stirring often. Add juice of lem. 
about six minutes before removing from fire. Put mi 



COLD DESSERTS 1 93 

ture into platter or shallow agate pan to cool. As soon 
as it begins to jelly at the edges, stir into it quite briskly 
the well-beaten whites of eggs. Beat until very light. A 
little lemon extract may be added. Serve in sherbet glasses 
with whipped cream piled on top. 



Fig Tapioca 

I "I cups minute tapioca 6 cups sugar 

3 quarts hot water 2 lemons (juice and grated 

3 tablespoons butter rind) 

3 cups chopped figs 3 teaspoons vanilla 

3 pints cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook tapioca, hot water, salt, and butter together in 
double boiler until tapioca is clear, stirring often. Mix 
figs, lemon juice and grated rind, sugar, and cold water, 
and cook until smooth and thick, stirring constantly to 
prevent burning. Combine mixtures, add vanilla, chill, 
and serve with whipped cream. 



Tapioca Cream 

I J cups pearl tapioca 2 cups sugar 

3 quarts scalded milk 12 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt 6 teaspoons vanilla 

Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, 
add to hot milk, and cook until clear. Mix sugar, salt, and 
slightly-beaten egg yolks, and add hot mixture, stirring 
constantly. Return to double boiler and cook until it 
thickens. Remove from fire and fold in the stiffly-beaten 
whites of eggs. Flavor and chill. 



194 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Pineapple Delicious 

2 pounds marshmallows 3 or 4 No. 3 cans of sliced 
I quart heavy cream pineapple 

Cut marshmallows in four pieces each, and pineapple 
in one-half inch cubes. Mix marshmallows, pineapple, 
and a little pineapple juice, and chill thoroughly. Just 
before serving, drain off juice, and fold in cream which 
has been whipped until stiff. 

Lemon Jelly 

f cup granulated gelatine 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water 3J quarts boiling water 

3 cups lemon juice 

Soak gelatine in cold water twenty minutes, dissolve in 
boiling water, strain through cheesecloth wrung out of 
hot water. Add to sugar and lemon juice, cool, and put 
in refrigerator or other cold place to stiffen. 

Orange Jelly 

f cup granulated gelatine 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water 2 J quarts orange juice 

2 J quarts boiling water i cup lemon juice 

Make same as Lemon Jelly. Serve with whipped cream. 

Fruit Jelly 

Make Lemon Jelly, cool, cover bottom of shallow agate 
oblong pans, or any desired molds. When jelly begins to 
stiffen, put in a layer of any desired fruit, then another 
layer of gelatine, and so on until all ingredients are used. 



COLD DESSERTS 195 

Sliced bananas, sections of orange freed from skin and 
membrane, steamed figs and dates cut in pieces, canned 
peaches and pineapple drained and cut in pieces, candied 
cherries, nuts, and other fruits may be used in any at- 
tractive and palatable combination. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Coffee Jelly 

f cup granulated gelatine i| quarts boiling water 
3 cups cold water 3 cups sugar 

3 quarts boiled coffee 

Make same as Lemon Jelly. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Pineapple Jelly 

10 tablespoons granulated 3 No. 3 cans pineapple 
gelatine 5 lemons 

7J cups boiling water 7J cups sugar 

Soak gelatine in boiling water until dissolved. Drain 
pineapple and cut in one-half inch cubes. Add to syrup 
sugar, juice of lemons, and grated rind of three of them. 
Boil two minutes, add strained gelatine, and boil seven 
minutes. Add pineapple cubes, chill, and serve with plain 
cream. 

Prune Jelly 

2 pounds prunes 15 tablespoons granulated 

3 quarts cold water gelatine 
Boiling water 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water ij cups lemon juice 

Wash prunes and soak over night in cold water, cook 
in same water until soft. Stone prunes and cut in halves. 
Add to prune water enough boiling water to make three 
quarts. Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in hot liquid, 



196 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

add sugar and lemon juice, then strain. Add prunes and 
chill, stirring twice to prevent prunes from settling. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Snow Pudding 

8J tablespoons granulated 8J cups boiling water 

gelatine 4J cups sugar 

2 cups cold water 2 cups lemon juice 

17 egg whites 

Soak gelatine in cold water twenty minutes, dissolve in 
boiling water, strain, and add to sugar and lemon juice. 
Cool, and when it begins to thicken, add beaten whites of 
eggs, and beat until stiff enough to hold its shape. Chill 
and serve with Soft Custard Sauce. 

Apricot Charlotte 

6 tablespoons granulated 2 cups cold water 

gelatine 6 cups strained apricots 

6 cups sugar 2 cups boiling water 

18 egg whites Juice 3 lemons 

Soak two pounds dried apricots over night in cold water 
to cover, and cook in same water until soft, then rub 
through puree strainer. There should be one and one-half 
quarts when strained. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water, sugar, 
and lemon juice. Strain and add apricot juice and pulp. 
When jelly begins to thicken, beat until light, add beaten 
whites, and beat until stiff enough to keep its shape. Chill 
and serve with whipped cream. Canned apricots may be 
used instead of dried ones. 

Oranges, peaches, strawberries, and other fruits may 
be used in place of apricots. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

Directions for Freezing 

Use finely crushed ice. A wooden mallet and burlap bag 
are useful for crushing ice. 

Use coarse rock salt in the proportion of three parts ice 
to one of salt. 

Place the can of the freezer in position in the pail ; put 
in the dasher ; pour in the mixture to be frozen ; cover, 
and adjust the handle so that it turns freely. Surround 
the can with alternate layers of ice and salt in the propor- 
tions given, beginning with ice. Pack solidly to the top 
of can. 

The freezer can should never be more than three-fourths 
full. 

In freezing ice cream, turn the crank slowly and steadily 
until frozen to a mush, then more rapidly. Add more ice 
and salt as needed. Never draw off water until mixture 
is frozen, unless there is possibility of its getting into can. 

When mixture is frozen, draw off water, remove dasher, 
and pack cream solidly. Put cork in opening, put on cover, 
repack freezer, using four parts ice to one of salt, cover 
with newspapers, then with heavy cloth. Let stand an 
hour or more to ripen. 

Lemon Ice 
4| quarts water 2j quarts sugar 

3f cups lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water together twenty minutes ; add 
lemon juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 

197 



198 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Orange Ice 

3-i quarts water 7 cups orange juice 

7 - cups sugar J cup lemon juice 

Grated rind of 6 oranges 

Make syrup as for Lemon Ice ; add fruit juice and grated 
rind, cool, strain, and freeze. 



Strawberry Ice 

3 J quarts water 7 cups strawberry juice 

5 J cups sugar 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Make syrup as for Lemon Ice ; cool, add berries which 
have been mashed and strained through double cheese- 
cloth, and lemon juice ; freeze. 

Raspberry Ice may be made in the same way. 

Mint Sherbet 

2-J quarts sugar 2 cups chopped mint 

5 quarts boiling water 3^ cups lemon juice 

Pick over, wash, and chop two large bunches mint. 
Bring sugar and water to boiling point and pour over 
mint. Let stand an hour or two, add lemon juice, strain, 
color delicately with leaf green, and freeze. 

Cranberry Frapp6 

4-J quarts cranberries 2J quarts sugar 

3 quarts water ij cups lemon juice 

Cook berries and water ten minutes, put through puree 
strainer, add sugar and lemon juice. Freeze to mush, 
using equal parts ice and salt. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 199 

Grape Frapp6 

7 cups sugar if cups lemon juice 

3-| quarts water 7 cups grape juice 

Boil sugar and water five minutes, add other ingredi- 
ents, and freeze to mush. 

Alaskan Combination 

2 quarts water ij cups lemon juice 

1 quart orange juice 8 large bananas 

2 quarts canned peaches 2 quarts sugar 

Fresh peaches may be used in place of canned ones> 
Mash peaches and bananas through strainer, add lemon 
and orange juice, sugar, and water. Freeze. 

Milk Sherbet 

2 cups lemon juice 2 quarts sugar 

44 quarts milk 

Strain lemon juice, add sugar, and mix thoroughly. 
Add milk slowly, stirring constantly. Turn at once into 
packed freezer. Turn slowly ^t first, but more rapidly ^ 
when it begins to stiffen. Let stand two hours to ripen. ^ 

Fruit Sherbet 

4 quarts rich milk 4 lemons 

2 quarts sugar I pint finely-shredded 

8 oranges pineapple 

Scald milk, chill; add fruit juice, pineapple, and sugar. 
Freeze and let ripen two hours. 



200 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Apricot Sherbet 



2j quarts strained 


I J quarts or more sugar 


apricots 


2j quarts water or 


6 tablespoons lemon 


juice 


juice 


4 egg whites 



Dried apricots which have been soaked, and stewed 
until soft, may be used. Boil sugar and water together 
five minutes, add strained apricots and lemon juice, chill. 
When half frozen, add stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, to 
which four tablespoons powdered sugar have been added. 
Pinish freezing and let stand an hour or so to ripen. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 



3J quarts milk 


1 teaspoon salt 


3 cups sugar 
1 cup flour 

I 


6 eggs 

3 tablespoons vanilla 
quart heavy cream 



Scald milk; mix sugar, salt, and flour together, add 
milk gradually, and return to double boiler. Cook twenty 
minutes, stirring constantly until smooth. Add to slightly- 
beaten eggs, cook three minutes, and cool. Add flavoring 
and cream, and freeze. 



Ginger Ice Cream 

Make Vanilla Ice Cream, using one-half the vanilla, 
one-half cup ginger syrup, and one and one-half cups 
preserved ginger cut in small pieces. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 201 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Melt six ounces unsweetened chocolate over hot water. 
Use Vanilla Ice Cream recipe, adding hot custard to 
melted chocolate, then cool and proceed as above. 

* 

Caramel Ice Cream 

3J quarts milk f teaspoon salt 

I quart sugar 4 eggs 

f cup flour 2 tablespoons vanilla 

I quart heavy cream 

Prepare same as Vanilla Ice Cream, using one-half the 
sugar in the custard. Caramelize ^he remaining sugar 
and add to hot custard. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 

General Directions 

Prepare pans first. They may be greased, then floured, 
shaking out all the loose flour ; or bottom of pans lined 
with paper, then paper and sides of pans greased. 

Always use pastry flour if possible, as it makes a more 
tender cake. If bread flour must be used, allow two table- 
spoons less for each cup, or two ounces less for each pound 
of flour called for in recipe. 

Sift flour before measuring, then mix and sift together, 
two or more times, the flour and all dry ingredients except 
sugar. 

If butter is very hard, warm bowl or mixing pan by 
rinsing with boiling water. Wipe dry, put in butter or 
other shortening, and stir until creamy. In many of the 
following recipes, vegetole, crisco, cotosuet, or other 
shortening is used wholly or partly in place of butter, but 
all butter may be used if preferred. 

Add sugar gradually to creamed butter, then add beaten 
yolks. Measure milk into bowl in which yolks were beaten, 
then add alternately with flour to the butter mixture. Beat 
well, then add fruit or nuts if required, and fold in stifily- 
beaten whites of eggs and flavoring. 

Fruit should be washed, dried, chopped, and mixed 
with a little of the required amount of flour before adding 
to mixture. 

If coal or wood is used as fuel, the fire should be 
attended to before mixing cake. If gas is used, the oven 

202 



CAKE AND COOKIES 203 

should not be lighted until the cake is partly prepared, or 
it will be too hot. The time required depends wholly on 
size and make of oven. 

Tests: A piece of white paper indicates that the oven is 
of the right temperature (300° F.) for butter loaf cakes 
if it turns golden brown in five minutes; for layer cake 
if it turns in four minutes ; and for angel and sponge 
cake if it turns in seven minutes. (250° F. increasing to 
280° F.) 

Cake may be looked at often provided there is no jar 
when the door is opened and shut. It should not be moved 
until firm enough to prevent falling. Cake is done when 
it shrinks from the sides of pan. Let it remain in pans 
for a few minutes after taking from oven. 

Angel and sponge cakes should be broken, not cut. With 
a sharp knife cut through the crust, then break apart. 

Plain Cake 

I cup butter 3 cups milk 

4 cup other shortening 2J quarts flour 
4i cups sugar , 4 tablespoons baking 

12 eggs powder 

3 teaspoons vanilla 

Mix according to general directions. Bake in square 
or oblong shallow pans, in moderate oven, about forty- 
five minutes; in layer cake pans about fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; or in muffin pans about thirty minutes. Spread 
with any desired frosting. 

Cream Cake 
Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans. Put Cream Filling between layers and powdered 
sugar on top. 



204 RECIPES AND ilENUS FOR FIFTY 

Chocolate Cream Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans, and spread Chocolate Cream Filling between layers 
and on top. 

Washington Pie 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans, spread jam or jelly between layers, and sprinkle 
powdered sugar over top. 

White Cake 

ij cups butter or butter 4 tablespoons baking 

and other shortening powder 

6 cups sugar I tablespoon vanilla 

3 cups milk 12 egg whites 

2j quarts flour 

Mix according to general directions. Bake in shallow 
square or oblong pans, or in layer cake pans. Spread with 
any desired frosting. 

Spanish Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake, using five teaspoons cinna- 
mon in place of vanilla. Spread with White ^Mountain 
Cream in which a stick of cinnamon was boiled with the 
sugar and water ; or with Caramel Frosting. 

Walnut Mocha Cake 

Follow recipe for White Cake, using boiled coffee in 
place of milk, and adding two or more cups coarsely- 
chopped walnut meats. Bake in shallow pans. Spread 
with Mocha or Caramel Frosting. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 205 

White Nut Cake 

Add three cups walnut or hickory nut meats, chopped 
or cut in pieces, to White Cake mixture. Bake in shallow 
pans. 

Sponge Cake 
10 eggs 3 teaspoons vanilla or 

5 cups sugar 2j teaspoons lemon extract 

if cups boiling water 5 teaspoons baking 

i teaspoon salt powder 

5 cups flour 

Sift sugar two or three times ; also flour. Beat yolks 
well, add sugar, then boiling water, then flour which has 
been sifted with salt and baking powder. Beat well, and 
then fold in whites which have been beaten until stiff 
and dry. Bake about forty minutes in slow oven. 

Cream Puffs 

2 cup^ butter 16 eggs 

I quart boiling water i • quart flour 

Put butter and water in saucepan over fire. When butter 
is melted, put flour in all at once, beating vigorously until 
mixture is thoroughly blended and leaves sides of pan. 
Remove from fire, partly cool, add eggs one at a time, 
beating each for some time before adding next. Beat until 
batter is no longer stringy, drop by the spoonful on 
buttered sheets, one and one-half inches apart. Shape 
with handle of spoon as nearly circular as possible, and 
slightly heaped in center. Bake thirty minutes in moderate 
oven. With a sharp knife make a slit in each, and fill with 
Cream or Chocolate Cream Filling, or with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored. 



206 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Graham 


Cake 


3 cups sugar 


I tablespoon cinnamon 


i-J cups molasses 


I teaspoon allspice or 


3 cups milk 


nutmeg 


4 J cups sifted Graham 


I teaspoon lemon extract 


flour 


I teaspoon vanilla 


3 cups flour 


3 cups raisins 


i-| teaspoons soda 


3 cups currants 


I teaspoon cloves 


Citron and nuts if desired 



Sift dry ingredients together. Mix the fruit with some 
of the flour and add after thoroughly mixing the other 
ingredients. Bake in loaves in moderate oven. Keep 
several days before using. 

Bread Cake 

3 pounds light bread dough 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup butter 5 cups sugar 

■J cup other shortening i teaspoon nutmeg 

6 eggs I teaspoon cloves 

2 cups chopped raisins i teaspoon cinnamon 

Dissolve soda in water. Put all ingredients together in 
mixing pan, mix very thoroughly, using knife or hands. 
Put into long, narrow cake pans, let rise one hour, and 
bake in moderate oven one hour, or until done. 

Gingerbread 

4 cups molasses 4 teaspoons soda 

2 cups boiling water 4 teaspoons ginger 

2j quarts flour 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

I cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons salt 

Add water to molasses. Mix and sift dry ingredients, 
combine mixtures, add shortening, and beat vigorously. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 207 

Bake in well-greased shallow pans in moderate oven forty 
minutes, or until done. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

I quart molasses 2j tablespoons soda 

I quart sour milk 2 tablespoons ginger 

2j quarts flour 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix soda with sour milk and add to molasses. Sift 
together remaining dry ingredients, combine mixtures, 
add shortening, and beat vigorously. Bake in shallow pans 
in moderate oven forty minutes, or until done. 

Molasses Cake 

3 cups molasses 3 teaspoons salt 

3 cups sugar i teaspoon cloves 

2 cups shortening 6 eggs 

3 tablespoons ginger 3 cups boiling water 
2 tablespoons cinnamon 2J quarts flour 

2 tablespoons soda 

Soften shortening with boiling water, add molasses and 
sugar. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add to mixture. 
Stir in beaten eggs and beat vigorously until smooth. Bake 
in shallow pans in moderate oven forty minutes, or until 
done. 

Chocolate Cake I 

Add six ounces melted chocolate, or one and one-half 
cups cocoa, to creamed butter and sugar of Plain Cake. 
Bake in shallow pans in moderate oven, and spread with 
\^^hite Mountain Cream or Plain Frosting. 



208 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Chocolate Cake II 

I cup butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 cup other shortening 2 teaspoons soda 

6 cups sugar 4 teaspoons cream tartar 

2 quarts flour 12 eggs 

2 cups milk f cup boiling water 

12 to 16 ounces chocolate 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add one cup of sugar, 
and boihng water gradually. ^lix and sift dry ingredi- 
ents. Cream butter and remaining sugar, add beaten yolks, 
hot chocolate mixture and vanilla, and flour and milk 
alternately. Fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Pour 
into shallow oblong pans to depth of one inch. Spread 
White Mountain Cream on top. 

Spice Cake 

2 cups shortening 2J quarts flour 

4 cups sugar 2 cups currants 
8 eggs 2 cups raisins 

1 cup sour milk 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 teaspoons soda 2 teaspoons cloves 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons allspice 

Mix according to general directions, adding molasses 
with milk. Bake in shallow oblong pans, or in muflin pans, 
in moderate oven. 

Date Patty Cakes 

I J cups shortening i teaspoon nutmeg 

8 eggs 5 tablespoons baking 

2 cups milk powder 

if quarts flour 2 pounds dates stoned 

5 cups brown sugar and cut in pieces 

3 teaspoons cinnamon 



•^ 



CAKE AND COOKIES 209 

When butter and sugar are partly mixed, add eggs and 
beat until very light. Add milk, flour which has been 
sifted with other ingredients, and dates. Beat hard two 
minutes. Fill muffin pans half full and bake thirty minutes, 
or until done, in moderate oven. 

Plain Drop Cakes 

2 cups sugar 6 scant cups flour 

1 cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons soda 

2 eggs I teaspoon cream of tartar 
2 cups sour milk 2 teaspoons vanilla or 

■J teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons mace 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix sugar and melted 
shortening, add beaten eggs, and flour and milk alter- 
nately. Drop by the teaspoonful on greased tins, and 
place raisin on top of each. 



y 



Sugar Cookies 

5 cups flour 5 beaten eggs 

2^ cups sugar 2J teaspoons cream tartar 

I J cups butter ij teaspoons soda 

Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs, then flour 
mixed and sifted with soda and cream of tartar. Roll 
quite thin, cut in small rounds, and bake in moderate oven. 

Jelly Jumbles 

2-J cups butter 2^ teaspoons soda 

5 cups sugar if cups sour milk 

5 eggs I J teaspoons salt 

Cream butter and sugar together, add well-beaten eggs, 
salt, sour milk in which soda has been dissolved, and flour 



210 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to make as soft a dough as can be handled. Chill, roll 
one-fourth inch thick, cut in rounds three inches in 
diameter. Put a teaspoonful jam or jelly on one-half the 
rounds, and cut three small holes in center of remaining 
pieces. Put pieces together, press the edges slightly, and 
bake in moderate oven. 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 

1 cup vegetole or crisco 2 cups flour 

f cup butter 2 teaspoons soda 

2 cups brown sugar -J teaspoon salt 

4 eggs -J teaspoon cinnamon 

^ cup milk -J teaspoon nutmeg a 

4 cups rolled oats ^ teaspoon n«tffl€g cJC^r^^ 

2 cups raisins 2 cups chopped nuts 

Sift dry ingredients together. Cream butter, vegetole, 
and sugar together, add well-beaten eggs, milk, flour, fruit, 
and rolled oats. Drop by the teaspoonful, about two inches 
apart, on well-greased pans. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 



\\ cups sugar 3J teaspoons soda 

2j cups molasses 2\ teaspoons salt 

2j cups vegetole, crisco, 4 teaspoons ginger 

or chicken fat 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

i^ cups sour milk Flour 

Heat molasses, melt shortening in it, and add sugar. 
Cool, add sour milk, and one quart flour which has been 
sifted with other dry ingredients, then flour to roll as soft 
as can be handled. If chilled for an hour or so, dough 
is more easily handled. Roll about one-third inch thick; 
bake in moderate oven. The cookies are crisp when fresh. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 211 



Boston Cookies 



ij cups butter 5 cups flour 

2j cups sugar J teaspoon salt 

4 eggs I J teaspoons cinnamon 

1 4 teaspoons soda I cup seeded and chopped 

3 tablespoons hot water raisins 

1 4 cups walnut meats 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and well-beaten eggs. 
Add soda dissolved in hot water, flour mixed and sifted 
with salt and cinnamon, chopped nuts and raisins. Drop 
by spoonfuls one inch apart on greased sheets or dripping 
pans, and bake in moderate oven. 

Sponge Drops 

12 egg whites ij cups flour 

I J cups powdered sugar J teaspoon salt 
8 egg yolks i teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff and dry, add sugar grad- 
ually, and continue beating. Add flavoring, and yolks of 
eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored. Cut and fold 
in flour mixed with salt. Drop from tip of spoon on un- 
buttered paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and bake 
eight minutes in moderate oven. This recipe makes one 
hundred. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 

Cream Filling 

2-i cups sugar 6 eggs 

1 cup flour 1 4 quarts milk 

f teaspoon salt I teaspoon vanilla 

Mix dry ingredients, add eggs slightly beaten, and 
gradually the scalded milk. Cook fifteen minutes in double 
boiler, stirring constantly until thickened, then occasion- 
ally. Cool and flavor. 

Chocolate Cream Filling 

Melt four ounces chocolate over hot water. Add to 
Cream Filling, using one-half cup more sugar. 

Plain Frosting 

8 cups confectioners' or f cup or more boiling water 
powdered sugar Flavoring 

Add boiling water gradually to sifted sugar, until of 
right consistency to spread, then add flavoring. 

Orange Frosting 

2 yellow oranges Confectioners' or powdered sugar 

Grate rind from oranges, add to it the juice, of which 
there should be about one cup. Let stand for an hour or 
more, strain, and add sifted sugar to m.ake of consistency 
to spread. The yolk of an egg or orange coloring may be 
added to supply lack of color. 

212 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 2I3 

White Frosting 

8 cups powdered sugar 3 tablespoons lemon 

8 egg whites juice 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and lemon juice, and beat 
five minutes, or until mixture begins to thicken. One 
tablespoon vanilla and two tablespoons water may be used 
in place of lemon juice. 

Mocha Frosting 

2 cups butter ^ cup strong boiled or 

8 cups confectioners' sugar filtered coffee 

Wash butter, work until creamy, add sugar gradually, 
beating constantly. As mixture thickens, add coffee, a 
few drops at a time, keeping mixture always of a creamy 
consistency, and using more coffee if needed. 

Cocoa Frosting 

Mix three-fourths cup cocoa and one cup hot milk until 
smooth, bring to boiling point. Follow directions for 
jMocha Frosting, substituting cocoa mixture for coffee, 
and using enough to make frosting of right consistency 
to spread. 

White Mountain Cream 

8 cups granulated sugar 8 egg whites 

2-| cups hot water 2 tablespoons vanilla 

Put sugar and water in saucepan, stir until dissolved, 
boil without stirring to 238° F., or soft ball stage. Pour 
syrup gradually on stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, beating 
constantly, and continue beating until frosting is of right. 



214 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

consistency to spread ; add flavoring and spread on cake 
at once. If not beaten long enough, frosting will run; 
if beaten too long, it will be rough. 

Caramel Frosting 

6 cups brown sugar ^ cup butter 

2 cups thin cream 4 teaspoons vanilla 

Use light brown sugar, or there will be danger of 
curdling. Boil first three ingredients together until waxy 
when dropped in cold water. Add vanilla, set saucepan 
in pan of cold water until frosting is of a consistency to 
spread, beating or not as desired. If frosting is beaten, 
it will be creamy in appearance ; if not beaten, it will be 
transparent. 

Chocolate Frosting 

6 cups sugar 6 squares Baker's chocolate 

3 cups hot water 6 egg yolks beaten thick 
6 teaspoons vanilla and lemon-colored 

Cook sugar, chocolate, and water to soft ball stage. 
then add gradually to beaten yolks, beating constantly. 
Add vanilla and beat until stiff enough to spread. 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 219 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Hominy Cream and Sugar 

Hashed Brown Potatoes Toast Batter Bread 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 





LUNCHEON 




Meat Pie 


Tomato Relish 




Baked Pears 




Plain Cake 


Cocoa 


Milk 
DINNER 


Tea 



Veal Roast Brown Gravy Barberry Jelly 

Steamed Potatoes Spinach Bread 

Baked Apples with Cream 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Apples, Pears and Grapes 

Boston Baked Beans Toast Brown Bread Grape Catsup 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Chicken with Stufi&ng and Gravy Spiced Apple Jelly 

Mashed Potatoes Creamed Celery Bread 

Apricot Charlotte with Whipped Cream 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken Sandwiches Stewed Crab Apples 

White Cake with Chocolate Frosting 



220 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Sliced Bananas Milk and Sugar 

Rechauffe of Veal on Toast Toast Pop-overs 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Lyonnaise Tripe Potato Cakes 

Cocoanut Cake 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Stew with Dumplings Steamed Potatoes Buttered Onions 

Oatmeal and White Bread 

Peach Shortcake 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Pettijohn Cream and Sugar 

Broiled Ham Mustard Sauce Toast Baking Powder Biscuit 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Italian Macaroni Oatmeal and White Bread 

Cottage Pudding with Grape Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Roast Mushroom Sauce Franconia Potatoes 

Cabbage Salad with Boiled Dressing Bread 

Bellevue Pudding Creamy Sauce 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 221 





Wednesday 






BREAKFAST 




Shredded Wheat 


Rolled Oats 


Cream and Sugar 


Bacon 


Toast 


Corn Cakes 


CofiFee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 



Cold Roast Beef Chili Sauce Creamed Potatoes 

White and Entire W^heat Bread 

Dutch Apple Cake Vanilla Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Corned Beef with Vegetables Mustard Sauce Steamed Potatoes 

Bread 
Spiced Pudding with Whipped Cream 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Steamed Rice Milk and Sugar 

Broiled Frankfurters with Sliced Tomatoes 

Toast Rye Muffins 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Corned Beef Hash Sliced Cucumbers Brown and White Bread 
Damson Preserves Plain Cake 

DINNER 

Lamb Fricassee with Triangles of Toast Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Beets Bread 

Molasses Cake with Whipped Cream 



222 



RECIPES \ND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Ralston Breakfast Food Milk and Sugar 

Creamed Dried Beef Toast Buns 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 



Potato Chowder 

Sponge Cake 
Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Crackers 



Bread 



Tea 



Apple Sauce 
Milk 



Broiled Bluefish 



DINNER 

Delmonico Potatoes 

Washington Pie 



Tomato Salad 



Bread 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Cream of W^heat Cream and Sugar 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato Toast Graham Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 



Creamed Fish 

Plain Cookies 
Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Baked Potatoes 

Pear Marmalade 
Milk Tea 



Bread 



DINNER 

Beef Tongue Piquante Sauce Potato Puff Buttered Cauliflower 

Rye and White Bread 

Apple Pie Cheese 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 223 

WINTER MONTHS 

Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Apples and Bananas 

Boston Baked Beans Cider Apple Sauce Toast 

Boston Brown Bread 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Turkey Mashed Potato Celery Cranberry Sauce Bread 
Nut Pudding Sunshine Sauce 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Turkey Bread and Butter Sandwiches Grape Butter 

Plain Cake with Caramel Frosting 

Cocoa Milk Tea 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Puffed Rice Shredded Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Poached Eggs with Minced Tongue Drop Biscuit 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese Cream Toast with Bacon Entire "Wheat Bread 

Bread Cake 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Loaf Brown Sauce Turnips New York Style 

Scalloped Potatoes Bread 

Caramel Bread Pudding 



224 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 



Shredded Wheat 


Wheat Germ 


Milk and Sugar 


Codfish Balls 


Toast 


Corn Bread 


Coffee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 


Meat Croquettes with Brown Sauce 


Peas Bread 




Gingerbread 




Tea 


Milk 
DINNER 


Cocoa 



Roast Pork Baked Potatoes Spiced Apples 

Bread 
Prune Whip with Soft Custard Sauce 



^Vednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Wheatena with Dates Cream and Sugar 

Tripe in Batter Toast Raised Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Lima Bean Soup Crackers Bread 

Doughnuts Coffee 

DINNER 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb Maitre d'Hdtel Potatoes Baked Bananas 

Bread 
Ginger Ice Cream Wafers 



MENUS FOR Vv'INTER MONTHS 22^ 



Thursday 



BREAKFAST 

Old Grist Mill Milk and Sugar 

Scrapple Toast Entire Wheat Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Mexican Chili Crackers Cucumber Pickles Bread 

Baked Blackberry Pudding 

DINNER 

Braised Liver Lyonnaise String Beans Hongroise Potatoes 

Oatmeal and White Bread 

Pumpkin Pie 





Friday 






BREAKFAST 




Shredded Wheat Biscuit 


Force 


Cream and Sugar 


Spanish Omelet 


Toast 


Blueberry Muffins 


Coffee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 



Mashed Potato Baked Sausage Rye Bread 

Molasses Cookies Hot Apple Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Haddock with Maitre d'H6tel Butter Macaroni and Cheese 
Apple and Celery Salad with Cream Dressing Bread 

Lemon Pie 



226 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat with Canned Peaches and Cream 

Frizzled Dried Beef Toast Cereal Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Pressed Corned Beef Lyonnaise Potatoes Mustard Bread 

Rye Drop Cakes Caramel Syrup 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Baked Ham Steamed Sweet Potatoes Creamed White Turnips 
Graham and White Bread 

Peach Shortcake with Cream 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Boston Baked Beans Catsup Boston Brown Bread 

Toast Doughnuts 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Chicken ^ la Jardiniere Boiled Rice Cranberry Jelly 

Corn Oysters Bread 

Pineapple Delicious After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster Stew Crackers 

Graham Cake Canned Peaches 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 



227 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded "Wheat Stewed Prunes Cream 

Fried Oatmeal Mush with Bacon German Coffee Bread 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 



Corn Chowder 

Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Crackers 
Blueberry Shortcake 
Milk 



Bread 



Tea 



DINNER 

Beef Roast Brown Gravy Franconia Potatoes 

Bread 
Creamed Carrots and Turnips 
Orange Marmalade Pudding 



Apple Chutney 





Tuesday 






BREAKFAST 




Shredded Wheat 


Farina 


Cream and Sugar 


Creamed Ham and Eggs 


Toast 


Graham Gems 


Coffee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 



Cold Roast Beef 
Tea 



Creamed Rice or Carrots and Turnips 
Jelly Jumbles 

Milk Cocoa 



Bread 



DINNER 



Spanish Stew Riced Potato 

Chocolate Cream Cake 



Saut6d Parsnips 
After-Dinner Coffee 



Bread 



228 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Force with Stewed Figs and Cream 

Milk Toast Orange Marmalade Bran Cakes 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters and Celery on Toast Jelly Graham and White Bread 

Cranberry Tarts 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Beefsteak Fried Onions Spanish Potatoes Bread 

Alaskan Combination 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Toasted Corn Flakes Cream and Sugar 

Creamed Finnan Haddie Toast Plain Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Liver Loaf Tomato Sauce White and Oatmeal Bread 

Apple Ginger Baronet Biscuit 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

JL.amb Chops Potato Puff Lima Beans with Cream Jelly 

Bread 
Stewed Figs with Cream 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 229 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded ^A^heat Corn Meal Mush Milk and Sugar 

Minced Meat on Toast Chili Sauce Rocks 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Creole Spaghetti Bread 

Canned Pears Spanish Cake 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Boiled Cod Drawn Butter Sauce Spanish Rice Peas 

Bread 
Mince Pie 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Malt Breakfast Food Cream and Sugar 

Apples Baked with Sausage Toast Pop-overs 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Fish Chowder Crackers Bread 

Molasses Cake 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Leg of Lamb Creamed Potatoes Mint Sherbet 

Peach Custard 



230 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 
Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Grapefruit 

Poached Eggs with Cream Toast Parker House Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

DINNER 

Mock Birds Buttered Asparagus Mock Potato Puff Bread 

Prune Jelly Whipped Cream After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese and Date Salad Crackers Bread 

Chocolate Cake Grape Preserve 

Tea Milk 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Toasted Corn Flakes with Sliced Bananas and Milk 

Corn Oysters with Bacon Toast Corn Cakes 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Vegetable Soup Crackers Bread 

Blueberry Shortcake 

DINNER 

Braised Beefwith Vegetables as Garnish Spinach Steamed Potatoes 
Coffee Jelly with Cream and Sugar 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Cream of Wheat Shredded Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Meat Souffle Stewed Rhubarb Toast 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Potato Salad Peanut Sandwiches 

Cocoanut Cake 

Tea Milk Cocoa (if a cold day) 

DINNER 

Barbecued Ham Hongroise Potatoes Buttered Scullions on Toast 
Vanilla Ice Cream with Chocolate Sauce 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Dates Milk and Sugar 

Boiled Eggs Toast Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cream of Tomato Toast Bread 

Baking Powder Biscuit with Maple Syrup 

Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Broiled Steak French Fried Potatoes Dandelion Greens Bread 

Strawberry Shortcake 



232 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Rhubarb and Figs 

Lamb Chops Toast Plain Rolls 

Coflfee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Sliced Ham Creamed Asparagus 

Tea Milk 

Marshmallow Gingerbread 

DINNER 

Roast Veal Mashed Potatoes Pineapple and Cheese Salad Bread 
Scalloped Rhubarb Hard Sauce 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded "Wheat with Canned Peaches and Cream 
Kippered Herring Toast Raised Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Egg and Peas Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing Ham Sandwiches 

Cottage Pudding Strawberry Sauce 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Broiled Mackerel Creamed Rice Cucumber Salad Bread 

Baked Custard 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 233 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Cream of Wheat Molded with Dates Cream and Sugar 

Baked Eggs Toast Graham Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Mexican RagoQt Potato Cakes Bread 

Rusks Pear Marmalade Coffee 

DINNER 

Corned Beef Maitre d'H6tel Cabbage Delmonico Potatoes Bread 
Fruit Sherbet Wafers 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Strawberries with Powdered Sugar 

Boston Baked Beans Chili Sauce Boston Brown Bread with Raisins 

Coffee Toast Milk 

DINNER 

Chicken Ragofit Boiled Rice Buttered Asparagus on Toast 

Pineapple Jelly After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Canned Red Cherry and Cheese Salad with French Dressing 

Crackers Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Mocha Nut Cake 

Cocoa Tea Milk 



234 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 



Malt Breakfast Food 
Broiled Ham Plain Toast 

Coffee 



Milk and Sugar 
German Toast with Maple Syrup 
Milk 



LUNCHEON 



Creamed Corned Beef 
Raspberries 



Radishes 



Plain Cookies 



Tea 



Milk 



DINNER 

Beef Roast with Yorkshire Pudding Boiled Potatoes 

Snowballs with Cherry Sauce 



Spinach 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Pettijohn's Breakfast Food 
Creamed Chicken on Toast Jelly 

Coffee 



Cream and Sugar 
Toast Rolls 

Milk 



Cold Roast Beef 
Iced Tea 



LUNCHEON 

Horseradish Sauce Boiled New Potatoes 

Cake with Cocoa Frosting Milk 



DINNER 

Beef Tongue with Tomato Sauce Buttered Potatoes 

Raspberry Shortcake 



New Carrots 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 235 



W^ednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Puffed Rice Cream and Sugar 

Boiled Eggs Toast Cereal Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Corn Soup Crackers Bread 

Banana Salad with Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Sandwiches Coffee 

DINNER 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb Mint Sauce Boiled New Potatoes 

New Peas 
Vanilla Ice Cream with Maple Sauce 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupe 

Cracked Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Bacon Toast Cinnamon Rolls Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Veal or Meat Loaf New Potatoes Creamed Bread 

Raspberries and Cream 

Iced Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Steak New Potatoes Boiled and Sauted in Pork Fat 

Beet Greens with Garnish of New Beets 

Blueberry Pie 



22^6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Gooseberries 

Cream of Corn on Toast with Bacon Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Baked Mince with Eggs Rye Bread 

Spice Cake 

Iced Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Broiled Cod or Haddock Samp with Cheese 

Cucumber and Radish Salad 

Caramel Custard with Caramel Sauce 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Blueberries Cream and Sugar 

Poached Eggs with Bacon Toast 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Meat Croquettes with Cream Sauce and Peas Bread 

Sponge Cake Berries or Strawberry Jam 

Iced Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Veal Roast Buttered New Potatoes Spinach with Hard-cooked Eggs 
Cantaloupe or Watermelon 



Bibliography 



The Boston Cooking School 

Cook Book 
A New Book of Cookery 
What to Have for Dinner 
Home Science Cook Book 
The Boston Cook Book 
Institution Recipes 
Lowney's Cook Book 
The Complete Cook Book 
The New Hostess of Today 
The Century Cook Book 
Practical Cooking and Serving 
New Cook Book 
The Fireless Cook Book 



Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Mary J. Lincoln and Anna Barrows 

Mary J. Lincoln 

Emma Smedley 

Maria Willett Howard 

Marion Harland 

Linda Hull Larned 

Mary Ronald 

Janet McKenzie Hill 

Sarah T. Rorer 

Margaret J. Mitchell 



237 



INDEX 



Alaskan Combination, 199 
Apple Catsup, 9 

Charlotte, 182 

Compote, 2 

Dumplings, 177 

Fritters, 32 

Marmalade, 8 

Sauce I, I 

Sauce II, I 
Cider, 2 
Green, 2 

Tapioca, 172 
Apples, Baked, i 

Fried, 4 

Glazed, 3 

Scalloped, 182 

Spiced, 3 
A-pricot Charlotte, 196 

Sherbet, 200 
Apricots, Stewed, 4 
.\sparagus, Boiled, 134 

Creamed, 135 

Bacon, 103 

Baked Mince, 120 

Baking Powder, to make, 22 

Bananas, Baked, 4 

Sliced, 5 
Bean Stew, 69 
Beans, Boston Baked, 135 
Spanish, 137 
Stewed Lima, 136 
with Cream, 136 
with Tomato, 136 
String, Buttered, 137 
Canned, 137 
a la Lyonnaise, 138 



Beef, Braised, 86 

Corned, 87 

Creamed Corned, 113 

Creamed Dried, 114 

Frizzled Dried, 114 

Hash, 120 

Loaf, 90 

a la Paysanne, 91 

Pressed, 87 

Roast, 8s 

Souffle, 118 

Stew, 89 

Steak, Broiled, 83 
with Onions, 83 
Roll, 84 
Beets, Boiled, 138 

Savory, 138 
Beverages, 49 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 29 

Drop, 29 

Entire Wheat, 30 

Squash, 18 
Blanc Mange, Chocolate, 190 

Plain, 190 
Boiled Dinner, 87 
Bran Cakes, 25 
Bread, 1 1 

General Directions for, 12 

Batter, 2(i 

Boston Brown, 28 

Corn^ 26 

Date, 15 

Entire Wheat, 15 

German Coffee, 20 

Graham, 14 

Oatmeal, 16 

Potato, 14 



239 



240 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Bread, Quick Nut, 2^ 

Rye, 15 

to make with Mixer, 13 

White, 13 
Brussels Sprouts, 139 
Buns, 19 

Hot Cross, 20 



Cabbage, Maitre d'Hotel, 139 

Salad, 163 

Scalloped, 139 
Cake, General Directions for, 202 

Bread, 206 

Chocolate I, 207 

Chocolate II, 208 

Chocolate Cream, 204 

Cream, 203 

Graham, 206 

Molasses, 207 

Plain, 203 

Spanish, 204 

Spice, 208 

Sponge, 205 

Walnut Alocha, 204 

White, 204 

White Nut, 205 
Cake Fillings, Cream, 212 

Chocolate Cream, 212 
Cakes, Plain Drop, 209 
Carrots, Bechamel, 141 

Boiled, 140 

Creamed with Turnips, 140 

German, 141 
Cauliflower, Buttered, 142 

Creamed, 142 
Celery, Creamed, 142 
Cereals, Methods of Cooking, 38 

Methods of Serving, 39 

Table for Cooking, 39 
Cheese, Cream Toast, 157 

Fondue, 156 

Scalloped, 156 
Chicken, Broiled, 108 

Creamed, 114 



Chicken, Creole, 116' 

Croquettes, 123 . ^ 

Fricassee, no 

Fried, 108 

a la Jardiniere, 109 

Pie, III 

Ragout, 116 

Roast, 106 

Smothered, 108 

Souffle, 117 

Stew, 109 
Chocolate Cream, 192 

Reception, 51 
Chops, Baked Lamb, 94 

Broiled, 93 

Pan-Broiled, 94 

Pork, loi 
Chowder, Clam, 68 

Corn, 67 

Fish, 68 

Potato, 67 
Cider Apple Sauce, 2 
Clam Chowder, 68 
Clams, Scalloped, 78 

Steamed, 78 
Cocoa, Breakfast, 50 

Reception, 51 
Coffee, After-Dinner, 49 

Breakfast, 49 
Cold Slaw, 140 
Cookies, Boston, 211 

Oatmeal Drop, 210 

Soft Molasses, 210 

Sugar, 209 
Corn Cakes, Golden, 2y 
Corn Chowder, dy 

on Cob, 142 

Oysters, 143 

Pudding, 143 

Scalloped, 143 
Corned Beef Hash, 119 
Cottage Pie, 118 

Pudding, 179 
Crab Apple, Spiced Jelly, 10 
Crabs, 79 



INDEX 



241 



Cranberry Frappe, 198 

Jelly, 5 

Sauce, 5 

Tart Filling, 171 
Cream Puffs, 205 
Cream Tapioca, 194 
Creole Spaghetti, 48 
Croquettes, 122 

Chicken, 123 

Sweet Potato, 155 

Veal, 123 
Croutons, 34 
Crumbs, 34 

Buttered, 34 
Cucumbers, 142 
Custard, Baked, 189 

Caramel, 189 

Peach, 192 



Date Patty Cakes, 208 

Dates, 5 

Doughnuts, Raised, 21 
with Sour Milk, 31 
with Sweet Milk, 31 

Dried Apples with Peaches, 4 

Duck, Roast, m 

Dumplings, 89 
Apple, 177 

Dutch Apple Cake, 178 



Eggplant, 144 
Egg Roll, 177 
Eggs, Baked, 54 
Creamed, 57 
Curried, 57 
Fried, 54 
Poached, 53 

with Cream Toast, 55 
with Minced Tongue, 54 
Scalloped with Peas, 58 
Scrambled, 57 

with Tomato, 56 
Soft-Cooked, 53 



Fig Tapioca, 193 
Figs and Rhubarb, 6 

Stewed, 6 
Finnan Haddie, Buttered, 76 

Creamed, 124 
Fish, 71 

Baked with Stuffing, 73 
without Stuffing, 74 

Boiled, 72 

Broiled, 73 

Chowder, 68 

to Clean, 71 

Cooking ai?d Serving, 72 

Creamed Salt Cod, 125 

Croquettes, 124 

Fried, 75 

Hash, 125 

Scalloped, 124 

to Skin, 71 

Steamed, 72 

Stuffing for, 74 
Oyster, 74 

Time-table for Cooking, 82: 

when in Season, 71 
Flageolets, 137 
Flour, Bread and Pastry, 11 
Frankfurters, 104 
Frappe, Cranberry, 198 

Grape, 199 
Fritter Batter, 32 
Fritters, Apple, 32 

Hominy, 33 

Rice, 32 
Frosting, Caramel, 214 

Chocolate, 214 

Cocoa, 213 

Mocha, 213 

Orange, 212 

Plain, 212 

White, 213 

White Mountain Cream, 313: 
Fruit Jelly, 194 

Puffs, 178 

Punch, 52 

Salad, 165 



242 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



'Gingerbread, 206 
Sour Milk, 207 

Gnocchi, 42 

Goose, Roast, iii 

Gooseberries, Stewed, 6 

Graham Gems, 25 

<jrape Catsup, 9 

Grapes, Spiced, 8 

Gravy, Brown, 85 
Chicken, 108 

Green Apple Sauce, 2 

Greens, 144 

Griddle Cakes, Rice, 23 
with Sour Milk, ."2 
with Sweet Milk, 2;^ 

Halibut a la Creole, 75 
Ham, Baked, 102 

Barbecued, 102 

Boiled, 102 

Broiled, 103 

Fried, 103 

Hash, 122 
Hamburg Steak, 84 
Hash, Beef, 120 

Corned Beef, 119 

Fish, 125 

Ham, 122 

Vegetable, 120 
Hominy, Baked, 42 

Fritters, 33 

Ice Cream, Caramel, 201 

Chocolate, 201 

Ginger, 200 

Vanilla, 200 
Ices, Lemon, 197 

Orange, 198 

Strawberry, 198 
Irish Stew, 96 

Jelly, Coffee, 195 
Fruit, 194 
Lemon, 194 



Jelly, Orange, 194 

Pineapple, 195 

Prune, 195 

Spiced Crab Apple, 10 
Jelly Jumbles, 209 

Kippered Herring, 76 

Lamb, Fricassee of, 97 

Roast, 94 

Shoulder, 95 

Stew, 96 
Lamb Chops, Baked, 94 

Broiled, 93 

Pan-Broiled, 94 
Lemonade, 51 
Liver with Bacon, 91 

Braised, 92 

Loaf, 91 
Lobster, Creamed, 79 

Deviled, 79 

Scalloped, 79 

Macaroni, Boiled, 43 

with Cheese, 44 

with Chicken, 46 

Creamed, 43 

with Eggs, 47 

Italian, 45 

a la Milanaise, 46 

with Peanut Butter, 44 

with Tomato Sauce, 46 
Meat Cakes, 121 

Casserole of Rice and, 117 

Croquettes, 123 

Left-overs, 113 

Minced, 121 

Pie, 118 

Rechauffe of, 115 
Meats, 81 

Time-table for Cooking, 82 
Mexican Chili, 69 

Ragout, 116 
Mince Meat, 171 



INDEX 



243. 



Mock Birds, 99 
Muffins, Blueberry, 27 

Cereal, 24 

English, 18 

Entire Wheat, 25 

Graham, 25 

Plain, 24 

Raised, 18 

Rye, 25 
Mushes, Fried, 39 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 94 

Braised Leg of, 95 

a la Creole, 115 

Curry, 115 

Noodles, 48 

with Cheese, 47 

Omelet, Bread, 55 

Cream, 55 

Rice, 56 

Spanish, 56 
Onions, Boiled, 144 

Creamed, 145 

Sauted, 145 

Scalloped, 145 
Orange Ice, 198 

Jelly, 194 

Marmalade, 8 
Oyster Stew, 66 
Oysters, Creamed, Tj 

Fried, tj 

Panned, "jy 

to Parboil, ^6 

Raw, 76 

Scalloped, 78 

Parsnip Stew, 70 
Parsnips, with Drawn Butter 
Sauce, 145 
Sauted, 146 
Paste, Plain, 168 
Peach Custard, 192 
Pears, Baked, 7 



Peas, Canned, 146 
Peppers, Stuffed, 146 
Philadelphia Relish, 130 
Pie, Apple, 168 

Blackberry, 170 

Blueberry, 170 

Custard, 170 

Lemon, 169 

Mince, 171 

Mock Cherry, 170 

Pumpkin, 169 

Raspberry, 170 

Washington, 204 
Pineapple Delicious, 194 
Pop-overs, 22 
Potato Chowder, 6y 
Potatoes, Austrian, 151 

Baked, 151 

with Bacon, 153 

Broiled, 154 

Cakes, 151 

Creamed, 149 

with Eggs, 150 

Delmonico, 151 

Franconia, 153 

Hashed Brown, 150 

Hongroise, 152 

Lyonnaise, 150 

Maitre d'Hotel, 154 

Mashed, 152 

Mock Puff, 153 

Scalloped, 153 
Pork Chops, loi 
Pork, Cream of Salt, 104 

Crisp Salt, 105 

Roast, 102 
Poultry, to Clean, 105 

to Select, 105 

to Stuff, 106 
Prune Whip, 175 
Prunes, Stewed, 7 
Pudding, Baked Apple, 178 

Baked Chocolate, 176 

Bellevue, 181 

Caramel Bread, 174 



244 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Pudding, Caramel, 191 
Chocolate Bread, 175 
Cottage, 179 
Cracker, 173 
Cream of Rice, 173 
English Plum, 18 1 
Graham, 180 
Honeycomb, 176 
Indian, 173 
Norwegian, 191 
Nut, 181 

Orange Marmalade, 174 
Prune, 172 

Ribbon Cornstarch, 190 
Snow, 196 
Spiced, 175 
Steamed, 179 
Suet, 180 

Rabbit Stew, 112 
Haisins, Stewed, 8 
Rhubarb, Baked, 7 

Scalloped, 182 

Stewed, 7 
"Rice, Boiled, 40 

with Cheese, 41 

Creamed, 40 

Curried, 41 

Fritters, 2^ ' 

Spanish, 40 

with Tomato, 41 
Hocks, 29 
Rolls, Cinnamon, 30 

Parker House, 17 

Plain, 16 

Potato, 19 

Squash, 18 

Swedish, 20 
Rusks, 17 
Hye Drop Cakes, 32 

Salads, Apple and Celery, 162 
Apple and Banana, 162 
Banana and Nut, 162 



Salads, Cabbage, 163 

Cabbage and Celery, 163 

Cheese, 163 

Cheese and Pineapple, 164 

Chicken, 164 

Cucumber, 162 

Daisy, 164 

Egg, 165 

Fruit, 165 

Macedoine, 165 

Potato, 166 

Salmon, I, H, 167 

Tomato, 165 

Uplands, 163 
Salad Dressing, Boiled, 159 

Cream, 159 

French, 160 
Cream, 160 
Creole, 160 

Mayonnaise, 161 
Cream, 161 

Sour Cream, 159 
Sally Lunn, 28 
Salmon Loaf, 125 

Surprise, 126 
Samp, Baltimore, 43 
Sauces for Meat, Bechamel, 130 

Brown, 128 

Cucumber, 131 

Currant Jelly, 130 

Drawn Butter, 128 

Egg, 128 

Horseradish, 131 

Maitre d'Hotel, 131 

Mint, 132 

Mushroom, 128 

Mustard, 132 

Philadelphia Relish, 130 

Pickle, 128 

Piquante, 129 

Spanish, 129 

Tartare, 131 

Tomato, 129 

Highly Seasoned, 129 

White, I, II, III, 127 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 742 1 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



Ut(j2 



mv 



HIBiifi! fiiliiill'fliifili 



i 



Recipes and Menus for Fifty 

as used in 

The School of Domestic Science 

of 

The Boston Young Women's 
Christian Association 



Prepared by 
FRANCES LOWE SMITH 




WHITCOMB & BARROWS 

BOSTON 1920 



Main 

\GRIC. DEPT. 

3)^^ O^^f . S , F, 

Copyright 1913 
By WHITCOMB & BARROWS 

Reprinted September, 1915 
August, 1917 
March, 1919 
January, 1920 



PREFACE 

THE object in publishing this collection of recipes and 
menus is twofold to put them in a convenient and 
accessible form for our own graduates, who find them 
invaluable in their various fields of work, and for others 
who need tried and definite recipes for use in small 
Institutions. 

This is not a complete cook book, although it furnishes 
material for a sufficiently varied menu. The recipes are 
those used by students in the preparation of meals in the 
school-home kitchen, as distinct from the laboratory; 
and have been collected and adapted, during a period of 
eleven years, from various sources from personal experi- 
ments, from the school laboratory recipes, from student- 
matrons, and from numerous cook books. 

The recipes are given just as used in the kitchen of the 
School of Domestic Science, but a word of explanation 
is necessary. Our students are women, living an indoor, 
semi-sedentary life, and are comparatively light eaters. 
The conditions also are such that it is possible to plan more 
closely as to quantities than is usually practicable else- 
where. For these reasons, the quantities given will some- 
times be insufficient for families of the same size; and 
again will be just right for smaller numbers as, for 
instance, summer camps, boys' schools, or college halls. 

It is a pleasure to me to express my thanks for the hearty 
cooperation of principal and students in this undertaking, 
and for the invaluable help, inspiration, and encourage- 

iii 

i 

417273 



IV PREFACE 

ment of those whose teachings and writings have made 
the work possible to Miss Harriet Folger, my instructor 
in the School of Domestic Science; to Miss Mary Mac- 
Dermaid, the present instructor in cookery; and to Miss 
Anna Barrows and Miss Fannie Merritt Farmer, authors 
and lecture-demonstrators. r. L. s. 



FOREWORD 

As I begin to write this brief foreword, several memory 
pictures come before me. 

I see the bending shoulders and anxious forehead of a 
student, who, having a few spare minutes, grudgingly 
spends them in the drudgery of copying recipes. But the 
recipes may be her future stock in trade, so there is no 
alternative. 

I am showing a visitor through the school. She is the 
able manager of a large restaurant and practiced efficiency 
engineering long before the term became common. We 
pass through the home kitchen and instantly her keen eye 
and quick hand are upon the open recipe box being used 
by some student. "Oh, splendid!" she exclaims; "how I 
wish these specific and complete directions could be in the 
hands of the many who need them !" 

I am sitting in my office. A recent graduate has come 
back to the school and is telling me of her first experi- 
ences. Engaged to teach in the high school of a small city, 
what was her surprise to be told upon arrival that she 
was also to superintend and to be responsible for the mid- 
day meal in the outdoor school of fifty anaemic children. 
"But I was equal to the situation, Miss Forehand," she 
said; "I had copied the home recipes." 

So the book is published, that tired students may 
escape copying, that those who can use the recipes and 
menus may find them accessible, and that the tool wielded 
so many years by Miss Smith for the school's success may 
be put in permanent form. 

A. JOSEPHINE FOREHAND, Principal. 



CONTENTS 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ix 

FRUITS i 

BREAD n 

QUICK DOUGHS 22 

CEREALS 38 

BEVERAGES . . . ... . . 49 

EGGS 53 

SOUPS 59 

FISH .71 

MEATS 81 

SAUCES FOR MEATS AND FISH . . . .127 

VEGETABLES 133 

CHEESE DISHES .156 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS .... 158 

PASTRY 168 

HOT DESSERTS 172 

PUDDING SAUCES 184 

COLD DESSERTS ....... 189 

FROZEN DESSERTS 19? 

CAKE AND COOKIES 202 

CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS .... 212 

MENUS 215 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 237 

INDEX 239 



vti 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

CORRECT measurements are absolutely essential to suc- 
cessful cookery, and these are possible to inexperienced 
cooks only by following certain definite rules. 

All measures in this book are level. Half-pint measur- 
ing cups, pint and quart measures, and teaspoons and 
tablespoons of regulation size are used. 

Flour is sifted before measuring, then sifted again with 
other dry ingredients except sugar. To measure dry in- 
gredients, fill measure rounding full with a spoon or scoop, 
without shaking, and level with a knife. To measure butter 
and similar ingredients, pack spoon, cup, or other measure 
solidly, and level with a knife. 

Weights are more accurate, and in some cases more 
convenient, than measures, and there should be in every 
kitchen a dial scale of several pounds capacity, and in 
institutional kitchens a platform scale for meats and bulky 
provisions. 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

3 teaspoons = i tablespoon 
16 tablespoons = i cup 

4 cups = i quart 
4 quarts i gallon 
8 quarts = i peck 
4 pecks = i bushel 

16 ounces = I pound 

ix 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



2 tablespoons butter 

2 cups butter or lard 

2 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups granulated sugar 

2j cups powdered sugar 

2 cups brown sugar 

4 tablespoons flour 

4 cups flour 

5J cups coffee 

2 quarts tea 

8 egg whites 
1 6 egg yolks 
10 medium eggs without shell 

2 cups chopped meat 
4 cups cocoa 

3 cups currants or raisins 
60 pounds potatoes 

52 pounds onions 
24 pounds string beans 
56 pounds tomatoes 
55 pounds turnips 
54 pounds sweet potatoes 
45 pounds parsnips 
50 pounds carrots 
60 pounds beets 
60 pounds beans 
48 pounds apples 
196 pounds 



ounce 
pound 
ounce 
pound 
pound 
= i pound 
= i ounce 
= i pound 
= i pound 
= i pound 
= i cup 
= i cup 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
bushel 
bushel 
bushel 
bushel 
bushel 
bushel 
bushel 
bushel 
bushel 
bushel 
bushel 
barrel 



= i 



FRUITS 

Baked Apples 

50 medium sized apples i teaspoons cinnamon or 

1 quarts sugar \ cup butter if desired 

Wash and core apples, and, if skins are tough, pare 
upper half. Place in agate dripping pans, skin down, and 
fill cores with sugar. Cinnamon should be mixed with 
sugar. If butter is used, put bits on top of sugar. Put 
hot water in bottom of pans to depth of about one inch. 
Bake in moderately hot oven until quite soft. It is better 
that they should lose their shape than be underdone. The 
length of time depends wholly upon kind of apple, but 
allow an hour or more. Serve hot or cold, with or with- 
out cream. If apples are very tart, or if they are to be 
used for dessert, more sugar will be required. 

Apple Sauce I 

1 6 pounds (ij pecks) tart, 2 quarts water 
juicy apples I teaspoon salt 

2 quarts sugar Spice or lemon if desired 

Wash, pare, and core apples ; add water and cook until 
soft. Put through puree strainer, add salt and sugar, and 
serve hot or cold. 

Apple Sauce II 

12 pounds tart, red, 2 quarts water 
juicy apples i teaspoon salt 

ij quarts sugar ij teaspoons cinnamon 



FOR 



Wash, quarter, and core apples; add water and cook 
until soft. Put through puree strainer, add salt, sugar, 
and cinnamon. Serve with pork. 

Apple Compote 

1 8 pounds tart apples i teaspoon cloves 
3 quarts sugar I teaspoon salt 

1 J quarts water I large lemon 

Wash, pare, and core apples ; cut in halves or quarters. 
Cut lemon in slices and each slice in quarters. Bring sugar 
and water to boiling point, add lemon, salt, and cloves, 
then turn in prepared apples. Bring to boiling point and 
cook in fireless cooker six or eight hours. They should 
be red and unbroken. Lift out carefully the pieces of 
apple and pour over them the juice, which should jelly 
slightly. If necessary, juice can be cooked down more 
before pouring over apples. Serve very cold for dessert, 
with or without cream. 

Cider Apple Sauce 

1 6 pounds tart apples I quart boiled cider 

2 quarts sugar i quart water 

Pare, quarter, and core apples; add cider, water, and 
sugar. Cover and cook slowly four or five hours. As 
amount of sugar varies with kind of apple used, it is well 
not to put in all the sugar at first. The sauce should be 
thick, mahogany red, and a little tart. Serve with meat. 
Cinnamon is sometimes added. 

Green Apple Sauce 

1 6 pounds green apples 2 quarts water 
2 quarts sugar 6 tablespoons butter 

i teaspoon salt Almond extract 



FRUITS 3 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core green apples. Add water 
and cook until soft, stirring often to prevent burning. 
Add more water if needed, as amount required varies with 
kind and age of apple. Rub through puree strainer, add 
salt, butter, and sugar, using more sugar if desired. Flavor 
sparingly with almond extract. 

Spiced Apples 

12 pounds tart apples 2j teaspoons cinnamon 
I quart water i teaspoon ground cloves 

5 cups sugar i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons butter 

Wash, halve, core, and quarter or cut crosswise in one- 
fourth inch slices Baldwin or other tart red apples. Put 
apples, and sugar mixed with seasonings, in fireless cooker 
kettle in layers, dot with butter, pour over hot water, bring 
to boiling point on range, and cook four or five hours in 
cooker. Or put into stone jars or baking dishes, and cook 
slowly three or four hours in oven. The apples should be 
mahogany red in color. Serve with roast pork or mutton. 

Glazed Apples 

2 quarts sugar i peck Baldwin or other 

2 quarts water tart red apples 

Make syrup of sugar and water. Wash and core apples 
and cut crosswise in one-half inch slices. Cook in syrup 
until tender and transparent, but not broken. Do not put 
in so many at a time as to break or crush them. Drain 
and keep hot until ready to serve. More water and sugar 
may be added to syrup at anytime if necessary. The syrup 
that is left may be used in making apple sauce. Serve with 
sausage, bacon, or pork. 



4 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Apples 

1 6 pounds tart apples i cups bacon, sausage, or 
2 cups sugar pork fat, or butter 

I tablespoon salt i teaspoon paprika 

Wash, quarter, core, and slice apples. Melt butter or fat 
in frying pans, put in apples, sprinkle with salt, sugar, and 
papiika. Cover closely, and cook until apples are soft 
and slightly browned, stirring occasionally. Serve with 
bacon, sausage, or pork chops. 

Dried Apple and Peach Sauce 

Take equal quantities of dried apples and peaches. 
Wash thoroughly, add water to barely cover, let soak over 
night, bring to boiling point, and cook two hours, or until 
soft, in fireless cooker or on back of range. Rub through 
strainer, add sugar and cinnamon to taste. Serve cold. 

Stewed Apricots 
4 pounds dried apricots 3^ cups sugar 

Wash apricots thoroughly. Cover with cold water, soak 
over night, and cook slowly in same water, in double 
boiler, until soft but not broken. When nearly done, 
sprinkle sugar over top, but do not stir. 

Baked Bananas 

3 cups sugar 9 tablespoons cornstarch 

ij teaspoons salt i quarts boiling water 

} cup lemon juice 36 bananas 

Mix dry ingredients, add water, and boil one minute, 
stirring constantly, then add lemon juice. Butter baking 



FRUITS 5 

dishes. Remove skins from bananas, cut in halves length- 
wise, then each half crosswise. Put in baking dishes a 
layer of bananas, then a layer of sauce, until all are used. 
Cover with buttered crumbs, using three cups soft, stale 
crumbs, and three-fourths cup butter. Bake until crumbs 
are brown. 

Sliced Bananas 

4 dozen large, firm, 2 cups powdered sugar 

ripe bananas J cup lemon juice 

Peel and slice bananas, arrange in serving dishes in 
layers, alternating with sugar and lemon juice. 

Cranberry Sauce 

6 quarts cranberries 3 quarts sugar 

ij quarts cold water 

Pick over berries, wash in cold water, put into sauce- 
pan, add sugar and water. Cover, heat slowly without 
stirring. Boil slowly fifteen minutes, or until skins are 
tender and juice jellies. Skim if necessary. Serve cold. 

Cranberry Jelly 

4 quarts cranberries 2 quarts sugar 

i quart water 

Pick over and wash berries, add boiling water, and boil 
twenty minutes. Rub through puree strainer, add sugar, 
boil five minutes. Turn into jelly glasses. 

Dates 

Wash and stone eight pounds dates, steam until tender, 
chill, and serve with thin cream for dessert. 



6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Stewed Figs 

6 pounds pulled figs 2 lemons 

1 quart sugar Water to cover figs 

Wash figs thoroughly, cover with fresh water, and let 
soak several hours. Sprinkle sugar over top and cook in 
double boiler until figs are tender, adding lemon juice 
when nearly done. Do not stir them at all, as that crushes 
them, and they should be unbroken. Strain off the liquid 
and boil until thick as syrup. Serve cold with whipped 
cream for dessert. 

Stewed Figs and Rhubarb 

6 pounds rhubarb ij quarts sugar 

2 pounds figs Water to cover figs 

Wash figs thoroughly, add hot water to barely cover, 
and soak until plump. Wash rhubarb and cut in inch 
pieces without peeling. Put rhubarb, figs, and sugar into 
double boiler or fireless cooker kettle in layers, pouring 
over them the water in which figs were soaked. Bring to 
boiling point and cook until fruit is tender. Serve cold 
for breakfast or luncheon. 



Stewed Gooseberries 

6 quarts gooseberries 2 quarts sugar 
2 quarts water 

Remove tops and stems and wash berries. Dissolve 
sugar in water, bring to boiling point, add berries, and 
simmer gently until tender. More water may be added 
if desired. 



FRUITS 7 

Baked Pears 

ij pecks pears 2 quarts sugar 

if quarts water f teaspoon cloves 

Wash, halve, and core pears. Add sugar, water, and 
cloves, cover closely, and bake slowly several hours, or 
until tender. 

Stewed Prunes 

5 pounds prunes 5 cups sugar 

Wash prunes thoroughly, cover with cold water, and 
soak over night or longer. Cook in same water in double 
boiler until prunes are soft, adding more water if neces- 
sary. Sprinkle sugar over top, but do not stir. Serve 
cold. Less sugar may be used if for breakfast. 

Stewed Rhubarb 

10 pounds rhubarb 3 cups water 

2j quarts sugar 

Wash rhubarb, cut off imperfect or tough skin, and cut 
in one-inch pieces. Put in kettle with sugar and water, 
bring to boiling point, and cook slowly on range or in 
fireless cooker until tender. One hour or more will be 
required in cooker. 

Baked Rhubarb 
10 pounds rhubarb 3 quarts sugar 

Wash rhubarb and cut in inch pieces, removing tough 
or imperfect skin. Put in kettle with sugar, let stand an 
hour or so, then cook slowly in oven two or three hours. 



8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Stewed Raisins 

Wash six pounds raisins, cover with cold water, soak 
several hours, or over night, and stew gently until plump 
and tender. No sugar is needed. 

Orange Marmalade 
I dozen oranges 6 lemons 

8 quarts water Sugar 

Wash fruit and cut crosswise in very thin slices, remov- 
ing seeds. Add water and let stand twenty-four hours. 
1 Boil fifteen minutes and let stand another twenty-four 
hours. To every quart of mixture add one quart gran- 
ulated sugar, boil thirty minutes, or until juice jellies 
slightly. Put in sterilized jars and seal, or cover with 
paraffine. 

Apple Marmalade 
6 pounds finely-chopped i| ozs. preserved ginger 

apple 6 pounds sugar 

6 lemons rind and juice 3 cups water 
Pare and core tart, juicy apples before weighing. Boil 
sugar and water together three minutes, add grated rind 
and juice of lemons, chopped ginger and apple, and cook 
slowly two hours, or until fruit is clear. This may be 
cooked in fireless cooker. 

Spiced Grapes 

8 pounds Concord grapes 4 teaspoons each cloves, 
8 pounds sugar cinnamon, nutmeg, 

ij quarts vinegar and allspice 

Wash and stem grapes before weighing. Cook grapes 

and vinegar together until skins are tender, strain, add 

sugar and spices, and cook until thick. 



FRUITS 9 

Tomato Relish 

1 peck ripe tomatoes 2 teaspoons ground mace 

2 cups chopped celery 2 teaspoons cloves 

2 cups chopped onions 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

4 chopped red peppers 2 teaspoons black pepper 

3 cups sugar J pound celery seed 
i cup salt 3 pints vinegar 

Chop tomatoes finely, drain, and throw away juice. 
Mix ingredients well, and seal in sterilized jars. Keep in 
cold place, and relish will keep for months without cooking. 

Grape Catsup 

6 quarts Concord grapes 4 tablespoons allspice 

4 pounds brown sugar 4 tablespoons cinnamon 
i quart vinegar 4 tablespoons salt 

4 tablespoons cloves -J tablespoon cayenne 

Wash grapes and pick from stems before measuring. 
Cook until soft, rub through puree strainer, add other 
ingredients, and boil until of consistency of tomato catsup. 
Seal while hot. 

Apple Catsup 

10 pounds prepared apples 4 teaspoons mustard 
3 quarts water 3 tablespoons cinnamon 

ij quarts sugar 4 tablespoons salt 

3 teaspoons paprika 2 small grated onions 

4 teaspoons cloves 2 quarts cider vinegar 
Wash, quarter, and core sour apples. Add water, cook 

until soft and nearly dry, then rub through puree strainer. 
Add other ingredients and cook very slowly for three or 
four hours, or until mahogany red in color. Seal while 
hot. 



IO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Spiced Crab Apple Jelly 

I peck crab apples 3 quarts vinegar 

3 tablespoons cloves i quart water 

4 tablespoons stick Sugar 

cinnamon 

If vinegar is very strong, use two quarts vinegar and 
two quarts water. Tie spices separately in strong bags. 
Cook apples, vinegar, water, and spices together until soft, 
strain. Add an equal amount of sugar, boil until it jellies. 



BREAD 

BREAD is a term applied to a great variety of batter and 
dough mixtures, but wheat, in one form or another, is used 
in them all. There are many varieties of wheat, of which 
the housekeeper should be familiar with the two, winter 
wheat and spring wheat. The former is sown in the fall, 
remains in the ground all winter, and is harvested the fol- 
lowing summer, producing a grain which is poor in gluten 
and rich in starch. The latter, or spring wheat, is sown 
in the spring and harvested at about the same time as the 
former, but the grain is just the reverse of that of winter 
wheat, being rich in gluten and poor in starch. Bread flour 
is wholly or largely from spring wheats; pastry flour is 
from winter wheat and is sometimes called St. Louis flour. 

Bread flour is creamy in color and slightly granular in 
texture, so that it does not pack when squeezed in the 
hand, but falls apart readily when the pressure is removed. 
Pastry flour is whiter in color, smoother to the touch, and 
is easily pressed into shape in the hand by pressure. As 
the amount of gluten in flour determines its price, bread 
flour is more expensive than pastry, but it is cheaper in 
the end, because a given weight of flour produces a greater 
quantity of bread. 

Bread flour is always used with yeast ; pastry flour for 
all other batters and doughs, unless otherwise specified in 
recipe. If, for any reason, it is necessary to use bread flour 
instead of pastry, use two tablespoons less flour to each 
cup, or two ounces less to each pound. In other words, 
seven-eighths of a measure of bread flour is equivalent to 
a whole measure of pastry. 

ii 



12 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Sift all flour before measuring. For shortening use 
vegetole, cottolene, cotosuet, or crisco, instead of butter 
or lard, because they are cheaper. Both sugar and short- 
ening may be omitted and still have a sweet, wholesome 
bread, but sugar hastens fermentation and shortening 
makes a more tender bread, which is desirable if it is to 
be used for toast. At night, after the bread is kneaded, 
brush with melted fat, to prevent crust from forming. In 
the morning cut down the dough thoroughly with a knife, 
or by turning the bread machine, then shape into loaves 
without using any flour. If the dough is sticky, dip the 
fingers in melted fat. It sometimes happens that rye or 
other dark breads are too sticky to mold without flour. 
In that case it is better to put the dough into pans with- 
out molding or shaping at all. Brush with melted butter 
when first put into the pans, to prevent formation of crust 
while dough rises, and to give tenderness and flavor to 
crust. 

All yeast breads should double in bulk before baking. 
The oven should be 360 F. when bread is put in the oven 
and cooled to 300 after about twenty minutes. The oven 
may be tested without a thermometer as follows: Put a 
little flour on bottom of oven, close door, and if flour 
browns slowly while counting forty, the oven is just right 
for bread. Bake sixty minutes for pound loaves. The 
loaves should be of a uniform golden brown all over when 
done. Remove at once from pans and place on a wire 
cooler or on a bread board, with one end of each loaf 
raised so as to allow air to circulate around it. Keep in 
tightly-closed tin receptacles, 



BREAD 13 

To MAKE BREAD WITH MIXER 

Put into the bread mixer the sugar, salt, shortening, 
etc., then add hot liquid. When cool add dissolved yeast 
and the flour, which should be measured very accurately, 
or weighed, using exactly six quarts or six pounds to two 
quarts of liquid. Turn mixer for five minutes or longer. 
In the morning, or when light, turn for five minutes. 
Shape into loaves, brush with melted butter, let rise again, 
bake sixty minutes or till done. 

Liquid Yeast 

4 medium-sized potatoes J cake dry yeast dissolved 
2 tablespoons salt in 

4 tablespoons sugar J cup lukewarm water 

2 quarts water 

Boil potatoes and mash fine ; add salt, sugar, and water 
in which potatoes were cooked, adding more water, if 
necessary, to make two quarts. When cool, add dissolved 
yeast. Keep in warm place till light, then in a cold place, 
if it is not to be used at once. Use this yeast in place of 
other liquid, in making bread. Bread made in this way 
rises quickly and is very tender and moist, although it 
becomes moldy more quickly in hot weather than that 
made with dry yeast. 

White Bread 

I quart milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

I quart water 2 tablespoons salt 

i yeast cake dissolved in CU P shortening 
J cup lukewarm water 5^ to 6 quarts flour 
Scald milk, add sugar, salt, shortening, and hot water, 
cool till lukewarm. Add dissolved yeast and flour gradu- 



14 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ally, beating hard at first. When stiff enough, take out on 
well-floured board and knead till smooth and springy. Put 
back into well-greased mixing pan, brush with melted 
shortening, let rise over night. In the morning shape into 
loaves, but do not put any flour on board. Brush with 
melted butter, let rise till double in bulk, bake sixty minutes 
in moderately hot oven. This quantity makes six large 
loaves. 

Potato Bread 

2 quarts boiling water I quart mashed potato 
2 tablespoons salt I yeast cake dissolved in 

4 tablespoons sugar J cup lukewarm water 

4 tablespoons shortening 5^ to 6 quarts flour 
Mash hot boiled potato, or use cold mashed potato, put- 
ting it through the potato ricer if lumpy. Add boiling 
water, salt, sugar, and shortening. When lukewarm, add 
yeast and flour, beating well until stiff enough to knead. 
Let rise over night, put into well-greased tins, brush with 
melted butter, let rise till double in bulk, bake sixty minutes 
in moderately hot oven. 

Graham Bread 

I quart hot milk I yeast cake dissolved in 
f quart hot water J cup lukewarm water 

i cup molasses 3 quarts flour 

I 1 tablespoons salt Graham flour to knead 

Sift Graham flour, but mix bran with it again before 
measuring. Put molasses and salt into mixing pan, add 
liquid. When cool add dissolved yeast and flour to knead. 
Let rise over night, shape into loaves, brush generously 
with melted butter. When risen to double its bulk, bake 
about sixty minutes in moderate oven. 



BREAD 15 

Entire Wheat Bread 

I quart scalded milk f cup sugar 

1 quart hot water i yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tablespoons salt J cup lukewarm water 
J cup shortening i quart white flour 

5 quarts entire wheat flour 

Put sugar, salt, and shortening into mixing pan, add 
hot liquid and cool. Add yeast, white flour, and entire 
wheat flour. When smooth and elastic to touch, put into 
greased mixing pan, let rise over night. In morning shape 
into loaves, brush with melted butter, let rise to double its 
bulk, bake from fifty to sixty minutes in moderately hot 
oven. If dough is too soft to handle in morning, cut down 
well with knife and turn into bread tins without taking 
on to the bread board. 

Rye Bread 

I quart hot milk 4 tablespoons shortening 

1 quart hot water i yeast cake 

2 tablespoons salt 3 quarts white flour 
i-J cups brown sugar 3 quarts rye flour 

Dissolve yeast cake in one-fourth cup lukewarm water. 
Prepare and bake as for Entire Wheat Bread. 

Date Bread 

2 quarts warm wheat i yeast cake dissolved in 

mush J cup lukewarm water 

2 cups brown sugar 5 cups English walnut 
4 teaspoons salt meats 

J cup melted shortening 5 cups stoned dates 



1 6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut nuts and dates in pieces. Mix the first four ingredi- 
ents, add dissolved yeast and flour to knead. In the morn- 
ing, or after the first rising, knead the nuts and dates into 
the dough ; shape into loaves, let rise, bake from fifty to 
sixty minutes. 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 quarts boiling water 6 quarts flour 

I quart rolled oats i yeast cake 

I cup molasses 2 tablespoons salt 

Dissolve yeast in one- fourth cup cool water. Pour boil- 
ing water on rolled oats and let stand half an hour or 
longer. When lukewarm add molasses, salt, dissolved 
yeast, and flour. When smooth and elastic to touch, put 
to rise over night. In morning shape into loaves, or if very 
sticky, cut down well with knife and put into tins without 
taking on to the board. Brush with melted butter, let rise 
to double in bulk, bake sixty minutes or till done. 

Plain Rolls 

i pints scalded milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

i-J pints hot water 3 tablespoons shortening 

i-J yeast cakes dissolved in i tablespoon salt 

J cup cool water 4 to 4^ quarts flour 

Put salt, sugar, and shortening into mixing pan, add hot 
liquids. When cool, add yeast and flour to knead as soft 
as can be handled. Let rise over night, in morning, if 
wanted for breakfast, shape at once, but if for luncheon, 
cut down dough and let rise again before shaping. Shape 
into small biscuits or finger rolls, place closely in greased 
pans, brush with melted butter, let rise till very light, bake 
from twelve to twenty minutes in hot oven. This quantity 
makes about one hundred medium-sized rolls. 



BREAD 17 

Parker House Rolls 

ij quarts scalded milk i tablespoon salt 

f cup shortening ij yeast cakes 

cup sugar 4 to 4^ quarts flour 

Add sugar, salt, and shortening to milk. When luke- 
warm, add yeast which has been dissolved in one-fourth 
cup lukewarm water, and flour to knead as soft as can be 
handled. Let rise over night. In morning cut down and 
let rise again before shaping. If dough is- light before it 
is time to shape rolls, it can be put in the refrigerator till 
wanted. Roll out one-third inch thick on an unfloured 
board, shape with biscuit cutter first dipped in flour. Dip 
handle of case knife in flour, and with it make crease 
through middle of each piece. Brush over one-half the 
piece with melted butter, fold edges together, pressing 
them tightly. Place in greased pan one inch apart, let rise 
till double in bulk, bake twelve to fifteen minutes in hot 
oven. Brush with melted butter before putting in to bake 
or when partly done. 

This same mixture may be shaped into biscuits, finger 
rolls, or clover leaf rolls. This quantity makes about one 
hundred rolls. 

Rusks 

i quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

i cups shortening I yeast cake dissolved in 

i cups sugar J cup lukewarm water 

6 eggs Flour to knead 

Add shortening, salt, and sugar to hot milk. When 
lukewarm, add beaten egg, yeast, and flour to make soft 
batter. Beat hard, add enough flour to knead, and let rise 
over night. In morning make into small biscuits, place 



1 8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

in pan so that they will touch each other, and let rise again. 
Before baking, make three parallel creases in top of each 
biscuit, brush with milk, sprinkle with sugar, bake in hot 
oven from twelve to twenty minutes, according to size. 

Raised Muffins 

quart scalded milk 6 tablespoons shortening 

| quart water I tablespoon salt 

3 e gg s ! yeast cake 

f cup sugar 3 quarts flour 

Cool milk and water, dissolve yeast in it, add beaten 
yolks, salt, sugar, and flour ; let rise over night. In morn- 
ing add melted shortening and stiffly-beaten whites. Fill 
muffin pans two-thirds full, let rise in warm place until 
full, and bake from thirty to forty-five minutes in hot oven. 
The muffins should be brown and crisp all over. This 
quantity makes about six dozen. 

English Muffins 

Use recipe for Raised Muffins. When mixture is light 
add melted shortening and whites beaten stiff. Put well- 
greased muffin rings on hot griddle, fill half full, cook 
slowly until well risen and slightly browned underneath, 
turn with pancake turner, and cook on other side. When 
cold, pull them apart and toast to a golden brown. Butter 
generously on the toasted side, reheat, and serve with 
Orange or Grapefruit Marmalade. 

Squash Rolls 

ij quarts scalded milk i^ quarts sifted squash 
J cup shortening ij yeast cakes dissolved in 

J cup sugar cup cold water 

3 teaspoons salt 4 to 4j quarts flour 



BREAD IQ 

Add salt, sugar, and shortening to hot milk ; when cool, 
add squash, yeast, and flour to make as soft a dough as 
can be handled. Knead till smooth, let rise over night, 
shape like ordinary rolls, let rise till double in bulk, and 
bake in hot oven. 

Potato Rolls 

4 to 4^ quarts flour f cup sugar 

ij quarts scalded milk i quarts mashed potato 

ij cups shortening ij yeast cakes dissolved in 

3 teaspoons salt J cup lukewarm water 

Add shortening, salt, potato, and sugar to hot milk. 
When cool, add yeast and flour to make batter. Beat well, 
then add flour to knead. In morning shape into small 
biscuits, place close together in well-greased pan, let rise 
till double in bulk, brush with melted butter, and bake 
twelve to twenty minutes in hot oven. These rolls may 
also be shaped like Parker House or Clover Leaf Rolls. 

Buns 

4 to 4| quarts flour i tablespoon cinnamon 
ij quarts scalded milk 6 well-beaten eggs 

i cups shortening i yeast cakes dissolved in 

3 teaspoons salt J cup lukewarm water 

i cups sugar 3 cups currants or raisins 

Add shortening, salt, and sugar to scalded milk. When 
lukewarm, add yeast, eggs, fruit, and flour which has been 
sifted with cinnamon. Knead well, let rise over night. 
In morning shape into small biscuits, place one inch apart 
in well-greased pans, let rise to double in size, and bake in 
hot oven from twelve to twenty minutes. Brush with 
mixture of sugar and milk and put back in oven to dry. 



2O RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Hot Cross Buns 

Make same as Buns. When cool, make cross with frost- 
ing on top of each bun. 

Swedish Rolls 

i quarts scalded milk I J yeast cakes dissolved in 

j cup shortening J cup water 

J cup sugar ij cups sugar 

3 teaspoons salt 3 teaspoons cinnamon 

4 to 4^ quarts flour 2 cups chopped raisins 

Mix first four ingredients, cool, then add yeast and flour 
to knead as soft as can be handled. In morning, or after 
first rising, roll to one-fourth inch thickness, spread gen- 
erously with melted butter. Mix sugar, cinnamon, and 
raisins, and spread evenly over dough; roll up like jelly 
roll and cut in three-fourths inch pieces. Place pieces close 
together in pan, flat side down, let rise till double in bulk, 
and bake in hot oven. When done, brush with white of 
egg, slightly beaten and diluted with one tablespoon water, 
and return to oven to dry egg. 

German Coffee Bread 

ij quarts scalded milk 3 eggs 

i cups shortening i yeast cake dissolved in 

i cup sugar cup lukewarm water 

2,\ teaspoons salt 34 quarts bread flour 

Add shortening, sugar, and salt to milk; when luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, well-beaten eggs, and 
flour. Beat well, cover, let rise over night. In morning, 
pour into well-greased, shallow pans to depth of one-half 
inch, let rise one hour in warm place. Before baking, brush 



BREAD 21 

with beaten egg and cover with following mixture : Melt 
one cup butter, add one and one-half cups sugar and five 
teaspoons cinnamon; when sugar is partly melted, add 
one- fourth cup flour. Bake thirty minutes, or till done, 
in rather hot oven. To serve, cut through crust, then 
break in squares, or pull apart with fork. 

Raised Doughnuts 

2\ quarts flour ij cups sugar 

2j cups scalded milk f cup melted butter 

5 eggs ij teaspoons salt 

i J teaspoons mace f yeast cake 

Dissolve yeast in scalded and cooled milk, stir in one 
quart bread flour, beat well, and let rise over night. In 
morning add beaten eggs, sugar, salt, mace, butter, and 
flour to knead as soft as can be handled about one and 
one-half quarts. Let rise until double in bulk, which will 
require two or three hours. Take part of dough on floured 
board, pat and roll to three- fourths inch thickness. Cut 
in strips three-fourths inch wide. Twist and lengthen 
these, then shape into figure eight. Repeat, until all the 
dough is used. Let stand on board, closely covered, until 
light throughout. Fry in deep fat, drain, cool, and roll 
in powdered sugar. This makes seventy-five doughnuts of 
medium size. 



QUICK DOUGHS 

Baking Powder 

Sift together, seven times or more, the following in- 
gredients: five and five-eighths pounds cream of tartar, 
two and one-half pounds soda, and one and one-fourth 
pounds cornstarch. If ingredients are purchased in large 
quantities, it is much cheaper to make than to buy baking 
powder. 

Pop-overs 

3 quarts milk 12 eggs 

I tablespoon salt 3 quarts flour 

Mix salt with flour, add milk gradually, that mixture 
may not become lumpy. Add eggs which have been beaten 
until light, then beat mixture two minutes with Dover 
egg beater. Fill hot, well-greased muffin pans three- 
fourths full, bake forty-five minutes or more in a moder- 
ately hot oven. Each pop-over should be double in size, 
and crisp and golden brown all over. I f not cooked enough, 
they will not keep their shape, and will be soft and moist 
instead of dry and crisp. If the oven is too hot, they will 
burn on top before the sides are well crusted. This recipe 
makes six dozen large pop-overs. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts flour I tablespoon salt 

2j quarts sour milk 6 eggs 

4 teaspoons soda 

22 



QUICK DOUGHS 23 

Sift soda, salt, and flour together. Stir milk into well- 
beaten yolks and add gradually to flour, then fold in beaten 
whites. If wanted thinner, add a little sweet milk. If the 
milk is very thick and sour, it is well to dilute it slightly 
with sweet milk. This amount of batter makes about one 
hundred cakes, allowing one and one-half tablespoons 
batter to each cake. Cook on hot griddle and serve at once. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts flour cup shortening 
6 tablespoons baking I cup sugar 

powder 2 quarts milk 

4 teaspoons salt 4 eggs 

4 tablespoons molasses 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; beat eggs, add milk and 
molasses, and pour slowly on first mixture. Beat well, add 
shortening, cook at once on hot, well-greased griddle. 
Serve with maple, caramel, or brown sugar syrup. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

Add two or three cups cooked rice to Sweet or Sour 
Milk Griddle Cake mixture. Serve with syrup or shaved 
maple sugar. 

Waffles 

2 quarts thin, sweet cream 12 to 16 eggs 
8 tablespoons baking 4 teaspoons salt 

powder 4 quarts flour 

Mix dry ingredients. Beat yolks of eggs, add cream 
and dry ingredients, and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. 
Heat one side of waffle iron, turn, heat other side, and 



24 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

grease both sides thoroughly. Put tablespoon ful of mix- 
ture in each compartment near center of iron, cover, and 
turn almost as soon as covered, cooking on the other 
side until brown. This quantity makes about twenty-five 
waffles. 

Plain Muffins 

2^ quarts flour 5 eggs 

f cup shortening cup sugar 

5 teaspoons salt ij quarts milk 

6 tablespoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add gradually milk, well- 
beaten eggs, and shortening. Put into well-greased muffin 
pans, filling them two-thirds full, or more. Bake thirty 
minutes, or till done, in moderate oven. This quantity 
makes fifty-five large muffins. 

Cereal Muffins 

2^ quarts flour 3 cups cooked cereal 

ij quarts milk 6J tablespoons baking 

5 eggs powder 

J cup shortening 5 teaspoons salt 

cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat eggs, add cereal, 
and beat hard in order to get rid of lumps. Add milk 
slowly, then dry ingredients and melted shortening. Bake 
thirty minutes, or till done, in a moderate oven. 

The cereal may be put through a coarse sieve, or the 
potato ricer, before using. This quantity makes fifty-five 
large muffins. 



QUICK DOUGHS 25 

Graham or Entire Wheat Muffins 

2j pints Graham flour 2 pints milk 
2 pints white flour 5 eggs 

5 teaspoons salt 6| tablespoons baking 

i cup sugar powder 

5 tablespoons shortening 

Sift flour, saving bran from Graham to use in Bran 
Cakes. Mix and sift dry ingredients together; add milk 
gradually, then well-beaten eggs and melted shortening. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, or till done. This 
recipe makes fifty-five large muffins. 

Rye Muffins are made in same way, except that rye flour 
is substituted for Graham. 

Bran Cakes 

1 quart flour 4 teaspoons soda 

2 quarts bran ij quarts milk 

3 teaspoons salt 2 cups molasses 

Sift flour, salt, and soda together, add bran and mix 
thoroughly, then add molasses and milk. Beat well and 
bake in muffin pans in moderate oven thirty minutes, or 
till done. This recipe makes about fifty large ones. 

Graham Gems 

2\ pints Graham flour 5 tablespoons shortening 
2j pints white flour 5 tablespoons baking 

5 teaspoons salt powder 

i cup sugar 2.\ pints sour milk slightly 

2,\ teaspoons soda thickened 

5 eggs 



26 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

If sour milk is very thick and sour, dilute with a little 
sweet milk before using. Sift Graham flour, then mix the 
bran with it again before measuring ; or bran can be saved 
to use for Bran Cakes. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add 
milk gradually, well-beaten eggs, and melted shortening. 
Fill gem pans half full, bake twenty minutes, or till done, 
in moderate oven. 

Batter Bread 

ij quarts white corn meal i J quarts cooked rice, 
ij quarts boiling water hominy,or other cereal 

2 teaspoons salt 3J tablespoons baking 

1 1 quarts milk powder 

12 to 15 eggs 

Pour boiling water on corn meal, add cereal, well-beaten 
eggs, baking powder mixed with salt, and milk. Bake in 
enamel-lined or earthen dishes, in moderate oven, forty- 
five minutes, or until firm like custard. Serve in dishes 
in which it is baked. 

Corn Bread 

ij quarts yellow corn meal 8 tablespoons baking 
1 1 quarts white flour powder 

i cups sugar ij quarts milk 

i tablespoon salt 6 eggs 

6 tablespoons shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk, well-beaten 
eggs, and melted shortening. Pour into well-greased 
shallow pans to depth of one inch, bake thirty minutes, or 
till done, in moderately hot oven. 

Cold corn bread is very nice split, toasted, buttered, and 
served very hot. 



QUICK DOUGHS 2/ 

Golden Corn Cakes 

f cup shortening 2 cups sugar 

ij tablespoons salt I quart milk 

ij tablespoons soda I quart yellow corn meal 

2 tablespoons cream of i quarts flour 

tartar 8 eggs 

Mix as for Corn Bread. Fill well-greased muffin pans 
half full, bake in moderately hot oven twenty minutes, or 
till done. 

Quick Nut Bread 

ij quarts corn meal 2\ cups brown sugar 

2j quarts Graham flour 3^ tablespoons soda 
ij quarts pastry flour 4 teaspoons salt 
2\ cups molasses 2^ cups chopped walnuts 

ij quarts milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add molasses and sour milk, beat 
well, add nuts, bake in shallow loaves, in moderate oven, 
forty-five minutes, or till done. 

Blueberry Muffins 

I cup shortening 5 tablespoons baking 

ij cups sugar powder 

4 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

2j quarts flour 4 cups milk 

4 cups berries 

Cream shortening and sugar together, add well-beaten 
eggs and milk. Mix one cup flour with berries. Sift re- 
mainder of flour with salt and baking powder and add to 
first mixture. Beat well, then stir in berries. Canned 



28 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

berries may be used by straining off liquid before mixing 
with flour. Bake thirty minutes, or till done, in moder- 
ately hot oven. This recipe makes fifty-five muffins of 
medium size. 

Boston Brown Bread 

I quart corn meal 2 cups molasses 

I quart Graham flour 4 teaspoons salt 

i quart entire wheat or rye 2 quarts sour milk 
2 tablespoons soda 

If sweet milk is used, add two and two-thirds table- 
spoons cream of tartar. Mix and sift dry ingredients 
together; add milk and molasses, beat thoroughly. Fill 
well-greased molds two-thirds full, cover and steam three 
and one-half hours. If not used the same day, steam an 
hour before using. Send to table in covered dishes or 
wrapped in napkins. Raisins may be added if desired. 



Sally Lunn 

2<| quarts flour ij quarts milk 

5 teaspoons salt 10 eggs 

5 tablespoons baking 5 tablespoons melted 

powder shortening 

i cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add beaten yolks, short- 
ening, and milk. Beat well, cut and fold in stiffly-beaten 
whites. Pour into shallow cake pans to depth of one inch, 
bake in moderate oven forty minutes, or till done. 

To serve, cut through crust into squares, then break 
apart. 



QUICK DOUGHS 29 

Drop Biscuit 

3 quarts flour cup shortening 

4^ to 5 cups milk or 8 tablespoons baking 

milk and water powder 

2 tablespoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Work in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add liquid gradually, mixing with knife 
to soft dough that can be dropped from spoon without 
spreading. Drop by spoonfuls on well-greased pans, one- 
half inch apart. Bake eight minutes in hot oven. 

Rocks 

Use recipe for Drop Biscuit. Before baking, brush with 
milk, then sprinkle generously with granulated sugar and 
cinnamon. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 

4/| cups milk or milk 8 tablespoons baking 

and water powder 

J cup shortening 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together, then cut 
or rub in shortening. Add milk gradually, mixing with 
knife to as soft a dough as can be handled. Flour center 
of board generously, drop dough on it, pat it with well- 
floured hands until it is floured all over, then pat or roll 
to three-fourths inch thickness. Cut in rounds, place close 
together in well-greased pans, bake from fifteen to twenty 
minutes in hot oven. Time of baking depends upon size 
and thickness. All ingredients should be cold. Handle as 
little and as lightly as possible, and avoid working in more 
flour. 



30 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Entire Wheat Biscuit (Sour Milk) 

3 quarts entire wheat 4^ cups sour milk 

flour 4 tablespoons baking 

1 cup shortening powder 

2 tablespoons salt 2j teaspoons soda 

J cup sugar 

The milk should be slightly thickened, but if very thick 
and sour, dilute with a little water or sweet milk. Mix 
and sift dry ingredients together, rub in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add milk, mixingwith knife to soft dough. 
It should be as soft as can be handled ; if too stiff, add a 
little sweet milk. Roll out from one-half to one inch in 
thickness, according to taste, cut in rounds, place close 
together in well-greased pans, bake in hot oven from ten 
to twenty minutes. 

Entire Wheat Biscuit (Sweet Milk) 

Use recipe for Entire Wheat Biscuit with sour milk, 
using sweet milk instead of sour, omitting soda, and using 
eight tablespoons baking powder. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 
4i cups milk or milk and 8 tablespoons baking 

water mixed powder 

% cup shortening 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit. Roll to one-fourth 
inch thickness, brush generously with melted butter, spread 
with three cups brown sugar mixed with three tablespoons 
cinnamon. Roll up like jelly roll, cut in three- fourths inch 



QUICK DOUGHS 3! 

pieces, place pieces close together in well-greased pans, 
flat side down. Bake fifteen to twenty minutes in hot 
oven. 

Doughnuts (Sweet Milk) 

2 cups sugar 4 teaspoons cream of tartar 

5 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons soda 

4 eggs i teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups milk J teaspoon nutmeg 

3 teaspoons salt Flour to roll 

Beat eggs, add sugar, melted butter, milk, and four 
cups flour which has been sifted with dry ingredients, 
then enough more flour to handle, keeping dough as soft 
as possible. Roll only a small part at a time, and be care- 
ful not to work in more flour. Do not knead dough more 
than absolutely necessary. Roll about three- fourths inch 
thick, cut, fry in deep fat, drain on brown paper. Roll 
in granulated or powdered sugar while still warm. 

Doughnuts (Sour Milk) 

2 cups sugar 3 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons butter I teaspoon soda 

4 eggs 2 tablespoons baking 

teaspoon nutmeg powder 

^ teaspoon cinnamon 2 cups sour milk 

Flour to roll 

Mix and fry as Doughnuts with sweet milk. These 
recipes make about seventy-five doughnuts of medium 
size. 



32 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Rye Drop Cakes 

3 eggs 3 teaspoons soda 

3 cup sugar 3 cups rye flour 

3 cups sour milk 3 cups flour 

i teaspoons salt 

Sift dry ingredients together ; add milk and well-beaten 
eggs, and beat well. Drop by teaspoon fuls into hot fat, 
fry to a golden brown, drain on brown paper. Serve with 
maple syrup. 

Fritter Batter 

5J cups flour i teaspoon salt 

2f tablespoons baking 2 cups milk 
powder 4 eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually and 
eggs well beaten. 

Apple Fritters 

Pare, core, and cut eight tart apples in eighths, then cut 
eighths in slices, and stir into Fritter Batter. Drop by 
spoonfuls into hot fat, fry until brown, drain, and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Serve hot. 

Fresh peaches or pears may be used in same way. 
Canned fruits may be used after draining off syrup. 

Rice Fritters 

3 cups cooked rice 6 eggs 

i quarts flour 3 tablespoons baking 

3 cups milk powder 

3 teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add cereal, milk, and eggs 
well beaten. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat, fry till 



QUICK DOUGHS 33 

brown, and drain on brown paper. Serve with meats or 
with sweet sauce for dessert. 



Hominy Fritters 

i J quarts cooked hominy 6 eggs 
i quarts flour 2 tablespoons baking 

3 cups milk powder 

3 teaspoons salt 

Mix hominy with milk until smooth, adding milk a little 
at a time. Then add flour which has been sifted with dry 
ingredients and well-beaten eggs. Drop by small spoon- 
fuls into hot fat, fry till brown. If batter is too soft, 
add a little more flour. Serve with meats, or dust with 
powdered sugar and serve with liquid sauce for dessert. 

Hygienic or Dry Toast 

Cut stale bread in half slices, as thin as can be handled 
without breaking. Toast quickly to a uniform golden 
brown on each side, in broiler or over coals. It must be 
watched very closely to prevent burning, and any burned 
parts should be scraped off with a sharp knife. Put in 
warm (not hot) oven until well dried throughout. The 
Akddin oven is best for this purpose. If gas oven is used, 
heat oven moderately, then turn off gas. Toast may be 
buttered, if desired, before sending to table. Keep hot. 

Brown Toast 

Cut stale Graham or oatmeal bread in thin half slices ; 
place on edge, in rows, in dripping pans, put in warm 
(not hot) oven until well dried. The more slowly it dries, 



34 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

the better it is. This toast is not buttered before sending 
to table. Moist or close-grained bread is not suitable for 
this toast. 



Crumbs 

Crusts and broken pieces of bread not suitable for 
croutons should be dried. With sharp knife cut off any 
dark brown or burned parts, then cut or break into small 
pieces and dry without browning. These dried pieces may 
be used for bread puddings, scalloped cheese, stuffing, etc., 
allowing one cup of small dried pieces as the equivalent 
of one cup of stale crumbs. To dry these pieces, place in 
dripping pan and put into slow oven that will dry with- 
out browning them, or keep in warming oven until dry. 
When perfectly dry, they can be put through meat chopper, 
if fine crumbs are wanted. 

Keep crumbs in one receptacle and small pieces in 
another. Use fine dried crumbs for croquettes, coarse 
crumbs for stuffing. 

Buttered Crumbs 

Melt one-half cup butter over hot water, add one quart 
stale, undried crumbs, and stir until well mixed. Use 
instead of dried crumbs for scalloped dishes. 



Croutons 

Use stale bread, utilizing broken slices, ends of loaves, 
etc., for this purpose. Cut into half-inch dice, toast in 
moderate oven until a uniform golden brown. Serve with 
soup. 



QUICK DOUGHS 35 

German or French Toast 
12 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

4 cups milk cup sugar 

Beat eggs, add salt, sugar, and milk. Soak slices of 
stale bread in mixture until soft. Cook on hot, well- 
buttered griddle ; brown one side, turn and brown other 
side. Be very careful not to burn toast. This quantity is 
sufficient for fifty or sixty large half slices. Serve for 
breakfast or luncheon with marmalade, jelly, or syrup. 

Cream Toast 

Make four quarts of White Sauce II. Make one hun- 
dred half slices of toast. The bread should be well browned 
and quite dry, but never burned. If it is burned, scrape 
off that part with sharp knife. Dip toast in hot water, 
arrange on hot platters, pour White Sauce over it, being 
careful to have each slice well covered. 

If there is time, a better way is to dip toast in cold water, 
then reheat in oven before arranging on platters. Cold 
water prevents the slight sogginess which hot water gives. 
If bread is very tender and flaky, dipping in water may 
be omitted entirely. 

Serve with Orange Marmalade, Baked Bananas, or 
Baked Apples. 

Milk Toast 

Heat five quarts milk in double boiler, season with one 
cup butter, four teaspoons or more salt. Make one hun- 
dred half slices of nicely browned and well-dried toast. 
Arrange in deep dishes, pour hot milk over toast, cover,' 
and send to table at once. The butter and one pint of milk 
may be omitted and a pint of heavy cream used instead. 
Serve with Grape Jelly. 



36 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Tomato Cream Toast 

4 quarts stewed tomatoes J cup sugar 

if cups butter I tablespoon salt 

if cups flour i teaspoon paprika 

Put tomatoes through strainer; heat to boiling point. 
Melt butter in inner part of large double boiler ; when hot, 
stir in flour. When smooth, add hot tomato, stir well, and 
let cook from twenty to thirty minutes in double boiler. 
Season ; serve on well-toasted bread which has been dipped 
in water. If desired, one- fourth additional cup of flour 
may be used for thickening, and just before serving a pint 
of thick cream added. This quantity of sauce is sufficient 
for fifty slices or one hundred half slices toast. 

Baked Tomato Toast 

Make sauce and toast as above. Arrange layers of toast 
in buttered enamel or earthen baking dishes, alternating 
with tomato sauce. Pour remainder of sauce over top, 
cover dishes, and put in oven for ten minutes. Send to 
tables in dishes. 

Oysters and Celery on Toast 

3 quarts oysters 2 quarts or more milk 
3 quarts celery 2 cups butter 

2 quarts water 2 cups flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut celery in inch pieces, add water and cook one hour, 
or until soft ; drain well. 

Melt butter, add flour, stir till smooth; add water in 
which celery was cooked, and enough milk to make four 



QUICK DOUGHS 37 

quarts liquid; stir till smooth, add celery, cook thirty 
minutes in double boiler. Season to taste. 

Pick over oysters, removing any bits of shell ; wash and 
drain. Add to sauce and cook until oysters are plump 
and gills curled. Serve on well-toasted bread which has 
been dipped in salted water. 

Cinnamon Toast 

Toast half slices of stale white bread to a uniform 
golden brown ; sprinkle with mixture of granulated sugar 
and cinnamon, reheat, and serve at once. 

Savory Toast 

5 or 6 cans tomato soup 2 \ tablespoons salt 
2 quarts water 4 tablespoons butter 

i cup chopped onion 8 eggs 

5 tablespoons flour 3 tablespoons French 

i teaspoon cayenne mustard 

i pound cheese 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft and yellow, add 
flour mixed with salt and cayenne, and stir until smooth. 
Add hot tomato and water, French mustard, and grated 
cheese, and cook in double boiler until smooth and thick- 
ened slightly, then add to well-beaten eggs, stirring con- 
stantly, and cook in double boiler until thickened. Serve 
on moistened half slices of toast. 



CEREALS 

METHODS OF COOKING 
In double boiler: 

Have the outside of the double boiler a little more than 
half full of boiling water. Put into the inside part the 
required amount of boiling water and the salt. Place the 
inside of double boiler directly on the stove, and as soon 
as the water boils hard stir in the cereal slowly, trying 
not to stop the boiling of the water. Boil five minutes, or 
less, if the cereal thickens so much that there is danger 
of its sticking to the bottom of the boiler. If a flaked 
cereal, stir with a fork to avoid breaking flakes. If a 
granulated cereal, use a wooden or heavy iron spoon. 
When it has boiled sufficiently, put the boiler into outside 
part for the remainder of the required time. 
In fireless cooker: 

Measure the required amount of water into the fireless 
cooker kettle. When boiling, add salt, stir in the cereal 
slowly, boil one minute, or until slightly thickened ; cover, 
place in the cooker, using one radiator. If cereal is for 
breakfast, prepare the night before and leave in cooker all 
night. The coarse cereals should always be cooked at least 
four hours. 

To heat the radiator : Place on stove or range, with the 
gas turned low at first, so as to heat gradually. As soon 
as hissing hot, place in proper compartment, put in the 
tightly-covered kettle, and fasten down cover. 

38 



CEREALS 



39 



TABLE FOR COOKING CEREALS 



KIND 



Rolled Oats 

Quaker Rolled Oats 

Petti John's 

Wheatena 

Wheat Meal 

Farina 

Cream of Wheat 

Malt Breakfast Food 

Rice 

Hominy 

Cracked Wheat 

Corn Meal 

Scotch Oatmeal 



QUANTITY WATER SALT 
Quarts Quarts Tablespoons 



3i 



TIME 

i hour 
I hour 
45 minutes 

I hour 



45 minutes 

2 hours 

3 to 4 hours 



METHODS OF SERVING 

Serve plain with sugar and cream or milk. In hot 
weather, cereal may be molded and served cold. 

Serve with fruit, such as baked apples, sliced bananas, 
fresh or stewed peaches ; stewed prunes, raisins, or figs ; 
or dates, washed, stoned, and cut in pieces. 

Serve with chopped English walnuts sprinkled over the 
top of each serving. 



Fried Mushes 

Corn meal, oatmeal, hominy, or other mushes left from 
breakfast, may be packed in greased pans of any desired 
shape, to mold for frying. If cooked expressly to fry, use 
less water in cooking. 



40 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut molded cereal in one-third inch slices, dip them in 
flour, and saute. Be very careful not to burn them. If 
less water is used in cooking, it is not necessary to dip 
slices in flour. Serve with maple or caramel syrup. 

Boiled Rice 

2 quarts rice 14 quarts water 

6 tablespoons salt 

Pick over and wash rice thoroughly. Add it gradually 
to boiling salted water, boil thirty minutes, or until soft, 
but be sure not to overcook. Drain rice in coarse strainer, 
rinse with hot water, turn lightly and carefully into dishes 
as fast as drained. Cover with cheesecloth and keep hot 
on stove or in oven. Save rice water for soup making. 

Creamed Rice 

i quarts rice 2 quarts milk 

J cup butter 2 teaspoons salt 

| cup flour teaspoon paprika 

Cook as for Boiled Rice. Melt butter, add flour, stir 
until smooth, add hot milk, stirring hard until free from 
lumps. Cook thirty minutes in double boiler, stirring 
occasionally; add salt and pepper, stir in rice carefully, 
serve as soon as well heated. Cold boiled rice may be 
utilized in this way. Serve as vegetable or luncheon dish. 

Spanish Rice 

5 cups rice I sweet red pepper 

1 J pounds salt pork 2 small green peppers 

2 medium onions 2 quarts strained tomato, 
Salt to taste or part stock 



CEREALS 41 

Wash rice in cold water, rubbing grains between the 
hands until water is clear. Add rice slowly to ten quarts 
boiling water, parboil ten minutes, drain. 

Chop salt pork, cook in oven in frying pan until fat is 
tried out, but do not let it get brown. Add chopped onion 
and seeded and chopped peppers, and fry for a few 
minutes, or till slightly yellowed. Put all ingredients into 
double boiler, add strained tomato, and cook thirty minutes, 
or until rice is soft, but not mushy. 

Curried Rice 

ij quarts rice 2 tablespoons curry powder 

ij cups butter 2 tablespoons or more salt 

I J cups finely-chopped 2 quarts boiling water 

onion 2,\ quarts hot milk 

Heat milk in large double boiler. Cook onion in butter 
until soft and light yellow, add well- washed rice, and stir 
until butter is absorbed ; add curry, salt, and boiling water. 
Cook over fire for five minutes, then turn into double 
boiler with hot milk and cook thirty minutes, or until rice 
is soft, but not broken. Serve in border, with green peas 
in center. This is a good luncheon dish. 

Rice with Tomato 

To six quarts Boiled Rice add two quarts Plain Tomato 
Sauce. Mix lightly with a fork, so as not to mash the 
grains. Serve as a vegetable. 

Rice with Cheese 

Mix Boiled Rice lightly with grated cheese, pile in dish, 
sprinkle with grated cheese. Serve as a vegetable. 



42 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Turkish Pilaf 

3 quarts tomato ij quarts rice 

4 onions 2j tablespoons salt 
8 sprigs parsley 2 cups butter 

12 peppercorns J teaspoon pepper 

1 6 cloves i quart stock or water 

Cook first five ingredients together five minutes, strain ; 
there should be three quarts. Wash rice, parboil five 
minutes, drain. Put into double boiler, add tomato, stock, 
salt, pepper, and butter in small bits. Cook forty-five 
minutes, or until rice is soft. Do not stir. Serve as a 
border for Curry of Mutton. 

Gnocchi 

4 quarts milk I pound or more of 

2 cups butter English dairy cheese 

2 cups flour Cold cereal 

Make a White Sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, 
following directions for White Sauces. Season with four 
teaspoons salt and add to it part of the grated cheese. 
Mold cereal in very small individual molds, or cut it in 
small pieces ; arrange in earthen or enamel baking dishes ; 
they should not be more than half full. Pour sauce over 
cereal, sprinkle with cheese, bake about twenty minutes. 
Serve for luncheon. 

Baked Hominy 

i quart hominy 5 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts milk 8 eggs 

Heat milk in double boiler; when scalding hot add 
hominy, having washed it in several waters. Stir for a 



CEREALS 43 

few minutes, then let it cook for one or two hours. When 
lukewarm, add well-beaten eggs and salt. Beat vigorously, 
turn into buttered baking dishes, and bake twenty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. Serve as a vegetable or as a 
luncheon dish. 

Baltimore Samp 

1 1 quarts samp 2,\ quarts milk 

i cup butter 2,\ teaspoons salt 

1 cup flour 4 or 5 cups grated cheese 

Wash samp well, soak all night in six quarts water, then 
bring to boiling point and cook six or eight hours in fire- 
less cooker. The samp should be quite thick when done. 
Make white sauce of butter, flour, milk, and salt, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Add cheese, stirring 
sauce until cheese is melted, then add samp. Serve as a 
vegetable or as a luncheon dish. 

Boiled Macaroni 

Break macaroni in inch pieces. For two quarts of 
macaroni have ten quarts or more boiling water, to which 
five tablespoons salt have been added. Put in macaroni 
and boil for thirty minutes, or until soft ; drain in colander, 
pour over it cold water to prevent pieces adhering, drain, 
and it is ready for use in any of the following recipes. 
Macaroni is much cheaper when purchased in twenty-five 
or fifty-pound boxes, instead of in pound packages. 

Creamed Macaroni 

2 quarts macaroni 4 teaspoons salt 

ij cups butter \ teaspoon paprika 

i cups flour 4 quarts milk 



44 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Boil macaroni as above. Make a white sauce of the 
butter, flour, milk, and seasonings, following directions 
for White Sauces. Reheat macaroni in sauce, keeping it 
over hot water while it heats. Serve as a vegetable or as 
a luncheon dish. 



Macaroni with Cheese 

2 quarts macaroni 4 teaspoons salt 

broken in pieces -J teaspoon paprika 

i cups butter 4 quarts milk 

i J cups flour 6 cups chopped cheese 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Make a white sauce of 
the butter, flour, milk, and seasonings, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Dissolve chopped or grated cheese 
in sauce. Put macaroni in baking dishes, pour over the 
sauce, lifting macaroni with fork to distribute it evenly. 
Cover with thin layer of buttered crumbs, using three cups 
stale crumbs and one-half cup butter. Do not use dried 
crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



Macaroni with Peanut Butter 

2 quarts macaroni 2,\ cups peanut butter or 

4 quarts White Sauce I 2 one-and-one-half Ib. jars 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Dissolve peanut butter 
in sauce while cooking in double boiler. Put macaroni in 
baking dishes, pour over the sauce, lifting macaroni with 
fork, in order to distribute it evenly. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. See Buttered 
Crumbs. 



CEREALS 45 

Italian Macaroni 

2 quarts macaroni 2 cups chopped mild green 

4 tablespoons salt pepper 

I j cups bacon fat 2^ cups chopped onion 

ij cups flour 4 quarts strained tomato 

i pound cheese, if desired 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Cook onion and pepper 
in bacon fat until soft, but not brown. Add flour, stir until 
smooth, add hot tomato, and stir until it boils. Add salt 
and macaroni, reheat over hot water to prevent burning, 
and serve at once. 

Or put macaroni into earthen or enamel baking dishes, 
sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake until cheese is melted 
and slightly browned. 



Creole Spaghetti 

i quarts spaghetti I tablespoon salt 

3 quarts canned tomato I-J cups butter 

3 cups chopped onion cup flour 

6 pounds Hamburg steak 3 cups grated cheese 

Cook spaghetti as for Boiled Macaroni. Strain tomato 
and bring to boiling point. Slightly brown onion in butter, 
add flour and hot tomato, stirring constantly until smooth 
and boiled; or turn into double boiler and cook thirty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir steak in hot frying 
pan until slightly brown, then turn into sauce, add spa- 
ghetti and cheese. The cheese may be omitted. 



46 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Macaroni a la Milanaise 

2 quarts macaroni broken 5 bay leaves 

in inch pieces 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts corned beef or 2 quarts brown stock 

ham in small pieces i cups butter 

2 quarts strained tomato I onion chopped fine 

3 teaspoons peppercorns i cups flour 

Cook macaroni as in Boiled Macaroni. Cook tomatoes, 
peppercorns, bay leaves, and sugar together ten minutes ; 
strain. Melt butter, add onion, cook until soft, then stir 
in flour. Add stock and tomato, stirring all the time until 
it boils. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Water may 
be used instead of stock by dissolving in it enough beef 
extract to flavor it delicately. Put meat and macaroni 
into baking dishes, pour over the sauce, and bake twenty 

minutes in a moderate oven. 

v 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 

Reheat Boiled Macaroni in Plain or Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce, allowing one quart sauce to three quarts 
cooked macaroni. 

Macaroni with Chicken 

4 quarts chicken stock 2 quarts macaroni 

i cups butter i quart cold chicken or 

i cups flour veal 

Salt to taste Grated cheese 

J teaspoon pepper 

Cook macaroni as for Boiled Macaroni. Cut chicken in 
small dice. Melt butter, add flour, stir ; add hot stock, stir 



CEREALS 47 

until smooth and thickened. Add macaroni and chicken, 
turn into baking dishes, cover with buttered crumbs, and 
bake twenty minutes, or until brown. The proportion of 
macaroni and chicken may be varied to suit taste or con- 
venience. Pass grated cheese with it if desired. 



Macaroni with Eggs 

24 hard-cooked eggs i cups butter 

ij quarts macaroni i cups flour 

3 cups grated cheese 4 teaspoons salt 

4 quarts milk Paprika to taste 

Cook macaroni as for Boiled Macaroni. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, milk, and seasonings. Cut eggs 
in slices. Put layer of macaroni in bottom of buttered 
baking dishes, then sliced eggs, then another layer of 
macaroni, and over the whole pour white sauce in which 
cheese has been dissolved. Cover with buttered crumbs, 
using three cups soft, stale crumbs and one-half cup butter. 



Noodles with Cheese 

4 quarts noodles Salt to taste 

r or more pounds cheese teaspoon pepper 

| cup butter i teaspoon paprika 

Cook noodles in plenty of salted water until soft, drain. 
Melt butter, add noodles, grated cheese, and seasonings. 
Cook slowly on back of range, or with gas turned low, 
until cheese is melted and butter absorbed. Serve as a 
vegetable or luncheon dish. Noodles may be purchased 
ready for use, or made as follows : 



48 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Noodles 

Beat four eggs slightly, add two teaspoons salt, and 
flour to make a stiff dough. Knead on slightly-floured 
board, roll as thin as paper, cover with towel, and let stand 
for twenty minutes. Cut in fancy shapes ; or roll the sheet 
of dough like jelly roll, and cut in thin slices, then unroll. 
Dry, and it is ready for use. 



BEVERAGES 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

WASH and scald coffee and tea bags in clear water, dry 
in the open air if possible. They should be renewed often. 

Scald coffee and tea pots, and cheesecloth squares or 
bags, before using. Boil pots with sal soda water once 
in two weeks or oftener. 

Wash eggs before using and save the shells for settling 
coffee. 

Breakfast Coffee 

Put four cups coffee in cheesecloth square or bag, and 
tie so as to leave plenty of room for coffee to swell. Put 
coffee, twelve or more crushed egg shells, and nine quarts 
cold water in coffee boiler ; let stand over night. In morn- 
ing bring slowly to a boil, boil from three to five minutes, 
turn in one cup cold water, and let stand until clear. 
Strain into coffee pots and bring again to boiling point 
before serving. Serve with cream or hot, rich milk. 

After-Dinner Coffee 

4j cups coffee 2 cups cold water 

3 eggs 4 quarts boiling water 

Mix slightly beaten egg, crushed shell, and cold water 
with coffee, turn into coffee boiler, add boiling water, and 
stir thoroughly. Boil three to five minutes. Pour some 
into a cup to remove grounds from spout ; repeat if neces- 
sary. Add remaining cold water, let stand on back of 

49 



50 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

range until perfectly clear. Strain into coffee pots, bring 
again to boiling point, and serve at once. Serve in after- 
dinner coffee cups, with or without cut sugar. 

If very strong coffee is desired, use six cups coffee and 
four eggs. 

Tea I 

Put two tablespoons tea in scalded pot, pour on two 
quarts boiling water. Steep three to five minutes, strain, 
and serve. 

Tea II 
f cup tea 9 quarts boiling water 

Put tea in a square or bag of cheesecloth, tied so as to 
leave room for tea to swell. Put into scalded urn or pot, 
add boiling water, steep five or six minutes, remove bag. 
Or have water boiling in pot, immerse bag in boiling water, 
and let steep on back of range, as above. 

Iced Tea 

ij cups tea 6 quarts boiling water 

8 quarts cold water Ice 

Follow recipe for Tea II, letting tea steep six to eight 
minutes. Cool, add cold water, and serve from pitchers 
half full of ice. Serve with lemon. 

Breakfast Cocoa 

I cup cocoa 3J quarts boiling water 

I pint lukewarm water 4 quarts hot milk 

Mix cocoa and lukewarm water until smooth, pour on 
boiling water, boil five minutes. Add to hot milk in double 
boiler, beat with Dover egg beater until foamy, to prevent 
scum forming, cook twenty to thirty minutes. 



BEVERAGES 5 I 

Left-over cocoa may be used in place of fresh liquid. 
Reheat it in double boiler with milk, and for each pint use 
one tablespoon less cocoa. 

Reception Cocoa 

i cups cocoa | teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar I quart boiling water 

i pint lukewarm water 8 quarts hot milk 

Scald milk. Mix cocoa, sugar, salt, and lukewarm 
water ; add boiling water and boil five minutes. Pour into 
hot milk, beat until foamy, keep hot in double boiler until 
ready to serve. Serve with whipped cream, using one 
quart heavy cream diluted with one cup milk, and flavored 
with one tablespoon sugar and three-fourths teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Reception Chocolate 

1 pound chocolate ij pounds sugar 

2 quarts boiling water 8 quarts hot milk 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add boiling water, stir 
until smooth. Boil ten minutes, or cook one hour in double 
boiler, add sugar and one- fourth teaspoon salt. Turn into 
hot milk, beat until foamy, and serve with whipped cream. 

Lemonade 

30 to 36 lemons or 2 pounds sugar 

ij quarts lemon juice 9 quarts water 

Mix sugar and lemon juice, add cold water, and stir 
until dissolved. Put in a large piece of ice, and let stand 
thirty or forty minutes before serving. 



52 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fruit Punch 

1 pint grated pineapple i pint strawberry juice 

2 pounds sugar 8 lemons 

3 cups boiling water 6 oranges 

I pint hot tea 7 quarts cold water 

Cook pineapple, sugar, and boiling water together fifteen 
minutes, add tea and strain. When cold add fruit juice 
and cold water, adding ice a short time before serving. 
Maraschino or candied cherries, strawberries, or mint 
leaves may be used as garnish. This recipe makes about 
ten quarts. 



EGGS 

Soft-Cooked Eggs 

Have a large kettle of boiling water: three quarts for 
each dozen eggs and one extra quart for the kettle. Put 
eggs into an egg basket, let basket down into boiling water, 
cover closely, and turn off gas, or remove to back of range 
to prevent boiling, but keep water at a temperature of 
175 if possible. Cook from six to eight minutes if liked 
soft, forty to forty-five minutes if wanted hard. If several 
dozen eggs are to be cooked at once, it is sometimes neces- 
sary to use two smaller kettles and baskets, instead of one 
large one. If both hard and soft eggs are wanted at same 
time, it is easier to cook them in separate utensils. Hard- 
cooked eggs which are to be used in preparing other dishes 
should be plunged at once into cold water, when done, to 
prevent discoloration. 

Poached Eggs 

Have a large, shallow pan two-thirds full of boiling 
salted water, allowing one tablespoon salt to two quarts 
water. Break eggs into shallow dish and slip carefully 
into water, which should not be allowed to boil while eggs 
are cooking. The eggs should be covered with water. 
Cook until white is firm and there is a film over top; 
remove with skimmer to pieces of buttered toast. One or 
two tablespoons of vinegar in the water helps to prevent 
the spreading of the whites. Egg poachers may be used 
instead of the shallow pans. 

53 



54 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Baked Eggs 

Butter egg shirrers or ramekins. Break an egg into 
each, season with salt and pepper, and bake in moderate 
oven until whites are firm. The dishes may be lined with 
grated cheese or chopped ham before putting in eggs. Or 
a spoonful of hot tomato sauce may be put over each egg 
before serving. 

Fried Eggs 

Put enough melted bacon or ham fat in frying pans to 
cover bottom to depth of half an inch or more. Break 
eggs into saucer or other shallow dish, slip into hot fat, 
dipping it over them until white is firm and there is a 
film over top. Keep fat at as low a temperature as possible. 
Remove with skimmer to platter. Serve alone or with 
bacon or ham. 



Poached Eggs with Minced Tongue 

3 quarts soup stock J cup minced onion 

ij cups butter 4 tablespoons tomato 
ij cups flour catsup 

2 or 3 quarts minced Salt and pepper to taste 

tongue Poached eggs 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft, turn in flour, and 
stir till smooth; add stock and seasonings and stir until 
thickened. If stock is not very rich, add a little kitchen 
bouquet. Reheat minced tongue in this sauce. Arrange 
slices of toast on hot platters, pour over these the hot 
mixture, put a poached egg on each piece of toast, and 
serve at once. 



EGGS 55 

Poached Eggs with Cream Toast 

3 quarts rich milk 3 teaspoons salt 

ij cups butter Poached eggs 

ij cups flour Toast 

Make a sauce of first four ingredients, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Arrange moistened toast on hot 
platters, pour over it the sauce, place poached egg on each 
piece of toast. Sei ve at once. 

Cream Omelet 

2 cups butter 5 teaspoons salt 

2 cups flour J teaspoon pepper 

3 quarts milk 24 eggs 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. When cool, add salt 
and well-beaten yolks, then fold in the whites, which have 
been beaten until stiff. Put into six earthen or enamel 
baking dishes and cook about forty-five minutes in moder- 
ate oven. The omelet should be firm throughout and 
golden brown on top. Serve at once in the baking dishes. 

Bread Omelet 

48 eggs 6 teaspoons salt 

5 cups milk i teaspoon pepper 

5 cups stale bread crumbs cup butter 

Use broken pieces and crusts of stale bread, cutting off 
any brown or burned parts of crusts. Soak over night in 
milk. In morning add beaten yolks and seasonings; cut 
and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. Cook and serve as Cream 
Omelet. 



56 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Spanish Omelet 

Make Cream, Bread, or Plain Omelet, and serve with 
it Spanish Sauce. Spanish Sauce: Cook together, very 
slowly, one cup finely-chopped bacon, three-fourths cup 
each of finely-chopped onion and mild green pepper, until 
onion is soft and yellow. Add two quarts tomatoes and 
cook until moisture has nearly evaporated. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper. If desired, five tablespoons sliced 
mushrooms may also be added. 

Rice Omelet 

3 quarts cooked rice 3 tablespoons salt 

3 quarts warm milk teaspoon pepper 
| cup melted butter 4 dozen eggs 

Add melted butter, seasonings, and warm milk to rice ; 
mix well and add well-beaten eggs. Cook and serve as 
Cream Omelet. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

4 dozen eggs i teaspoon paprika 
3 quarts strained tomato 2 cups butter 

5 tablespoons sugar cup minced onion 

4 teaspoons salt 

Fry butter and onion three minutes, add tomatoes and 
sugar, and simmer five minutes. Put slightly-beaten eggs 
in double boiler, add tomato. Cook over hot water until 
of creamy consistency, stirring and scraping from bottom 
of kettle as it thickens. It will probably require from thirty 
to thirty-five minutes. If ready too soon, keep over water 
which is below boiling point. 



EGGS 57 

Scrambled Eggs 

2 quarts milk i cup butter 

4 dozen eggs 2 tablespoons salt 

Heat milk and butter in double boiler. When hot, add 
well-beaten eggs and salt, and cook until it thickens, stir- 
ring and scraping the thickened mixture from the bottom 
and sides as fast as it forms. It requires from twenty-five 
to thirty minutes for it to thicken to a creamy consistency. 
If cooked too long, it will whey. Minced ham, shredded 
dried beef, or minced parsley may be added just before 
serving. 

Creamed Eggs 

4 quarts milk 4 teaspoons salt 

2 cups butter 48 hard-cooked eggs 

2 cups flour J teaspoon pepper 

Make a white sauce of the first three ingredients, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. Add salt and chopped 
whites to the sauce. Toast half slices of white bread, dip 
in salted water, put on platter, and cover with sauce. 
Strain yolks over the top, using a coarse strainer or a 
potato ricer. Put toast in oven a few minutes to reheat. 
Chopped ham may be added to sauce if desired. 

Curried Eggs 

4 quarts milk ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 cups butter 5 or more teaspoons curry 

2 cups flour 48 hard-cooked eggs cut 
4 teaspoons salt in slices 

Make a white sauce of the first three ingredients. Mix 
salt, pepper, and curry together and add to sauce. Pile 



58 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

sliced eggs in center of platters, put a border of boiled or 
steamed rice around outside, and pour sauce over eggs. 
Unless very hot, put in oven two or three minutes to re- 
heat. If desired, triangles of toasted bread, instead of 
rice, may be served around the eggs. 

Eggs Scalloped with Peas 

4 quarts milk teaspoon pepper 

i cups butter 36 hard-cooked eggs 
i cups flour 4 quarts canned peas 

3 teaspoons salt 4 cups buttered crumbs 

Make a white sauce of the first five ingredients, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Drain peas and season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and sugar. Put a layer of peas 
in baking dishes, then a layer of sliced eggs, pour over the 
sauce, and cover with a thin layer of buttered crumbs. 
Bake twenty minutes. 



SOUPS 

CLEAR soups contain chiefly the flavoring constituents 
of the meat from which they are obtained. They are of 
very little nutritive value, but the extractives and gelatine 
which they contain promote the flow of gastric juice and 
so aid digestion. A "thick" or cream soup contains more 
nutriment; therefore, choose a clear soup if a substantial 
meal is to follow, but if soup is to be the main dish, it 
should be a thick one. 

To Prepare Stock 

Allow two-thirds lean meat to one-third bone and fat, 
wipe the meat with a cloth wrung out of cold water. Cut 
lean meat into one-inch pieces. Put the fat, bone, and 
two-thirds of the lean meat into a kettle, add cold water, 
allowing one pint to each pound of meat, bone and fat. 
Let stand thirty to sixty minutes. Heat a frying pan hiss- 
ing hot, put in a little marrow or suet, to prevent sticking, 
brown one-third of the meat, stirring often, that all parts 
of the surface may be seared. Add this brown meat to the 
first, rinsing out frying pan with a little water from the 
kettle. Heat gradually to the boiling point, and cook six 
or seven hours at a low temperature. 

Vegetables, spices, and salt should be added the last 
hour. Strain and cool quickly. The cake of fat which 
forms on the top of the stock should not be removed till 
the stock is used, as it excludes all air. To remove fat 
which forms, run a knife around the edge of the bowl, 

59 



6O RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

then lift it out. The particles of fat remaining should be 
removed by passing a cloth wrung out of hot water around 
the edge of the receptacle and over top of the stock. 

How to Clear Soup Stock 

Remove fat from stock and put the quantity to be cleared 
in stew pan, allowing white and shell of one egg to two 
quarts of stock. Beat eggs slightly, break shell into small 
pieces, mix with one cup cold water, and add to stock. 
Place on front of range and stir constantly until boiling 
point is reached ; boil two minutes. Set back where it may 
simmer twenty minutes, remove scum and strain through 
double thickness of cheesecloth placed over a fine strainer. 

Soup Stock 

Take a five-pound soup bone and ten pounds or more 
of bones, trimmings, and pieces of meat from cooked 
roasts, steaks, chops, etc. Wash soup bone, cut burned 
parts from cooked meats, put into soup kettle with twelve 
quarts water, simmer six hours. Strain, cool, remove fat, 
and use as foundation for Vegetable, Noodle, or other 
soups requiring stock. 

Bouillon 

Make Soup Stock, using five pounds raw meat in addi- 
tion to that on soup bone. Simmer slowly six hours, add 
four teaspoons peppercorns, four tablespoons salt, one and 
one-half cups each of diced carrot, turnip, celery, and 
onion. Cook one hour, strain, cool, remove fat, and clarify. 

Turkey or Chicken Soup 

After serving roast turkey or chicken, remove any 
stuffing or pieces of white meat, break bones, and put into 



SOUPS 61 

stock kettle with leaves, roots, and outside pieces of celery 
and uncooked ends of wings or pieces of necks. For three 
or four large turkeys add three gallons cold water, cover, 
and simmer slowly two to four hours. If allowed to boil, 
the soup will be clouded and less delicate in flavor. 

Strain, remove fat, season with salt, pepper, and onion 
juice. Add white meat cut in half -inch pieces and three 
cups boiled rice. 

Vegetable Soup with Stock 

10 quarts stock J teaspoon pepper 

1 cup each carrots, -J tablespoon celery salt 

turnips, parsnips, J cup rice cooked in 

and cabbage I quart water 

^ cup onion I quart stewed and strained 

2 quarts boiling water tomato 

Wash, pare, and chop vegetables, or put them through 
meat grinder ; cook in boiling water until soft. Wash and 
boil rice, then add rice and vegetables, with water in which 
they were cooked, to stock. Add tomato and seasonings ; 
serve very hot. 

Vegetable Soup without Stock 

i quart carrot 12 quarts water 
i quart turnip 3 cups butter 

ij quarts celery 6 tablespoons finely- 

4^ quarts potato chopped parsley 

6 onions Salt and pepper 

Wash and pare carrots and turnips; cut in strips one 
inch long and one- fourth inch wide, or put through meat 
grinder. Wash, pare, and cut potatoes in small pieces. 



62 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut onion in thin slices and celery in quarter-inch pieces. 
Measure vegetables after cutting ; mix all except potatoes, 
and cook ten minutes in butter, stirring constantly. Turn 
into soup kettle, add potatoes and water ; cook one hour. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper, add parsley, and 
serve at once, boiling hot. 

Potato Soup 

8 pounds potatoes 6 tablespoons salt 

10 quarts hot milk 3 teaspoons celery salt 

2 quarts water or stock i teaspoons pepper 

4 medium onions 2 cups butter 

4 tablespoons chopped i cups flour 

parsley teaspoon cayenne 

Cook potatoes and sliced onion in water or stock until 
soft, then put through strainer without draining. Make 
a white sauce of the milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauces. Add sauce to potato and 
seasonings, bring to boiling point, sprinkle with parsley, 
serve. 

Celery Soup 

8 quarts celery 2 chopped onions 

5^ quarts boiling water 2 cups butter 

7 quarts scalded milk 2| cups flour 

Salt to taste i teaspoon pepper 

Wash, scrape, and cut celery in half -inch pieces, cook 
with onion in boiling water until quite soft, rub through 
sieve. Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter, add flour, 
and when smooth stir into milk and let cook thirty minutes, 
stirring occasionally until perfectly smooth. Have celery 
mixture boiling, add milk, season, and serve with crackers 
or croutons. 



SOUPS 63 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 

6 pounds cabbage i cups butter 

6 quarts boiling water i cups flour 

6 quarts milk 5 or more tablespoons salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Chop cabbage fine, add water and salt, cook until soft. 
Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauce. Just before serving, turn 
the two mixtures together, add pepper, more salt, if needed, 
and one-half cup butter. If water cooks away very much 
in boiling, add a little more. Serve with croutons or 
crackers. 

Corn Soup 

8 cans corn I J cups butter 

3 quarts boiling water i cups flour 

7 quarts milk 5 or more tablespoons salt 
2 small onions i teaspoon pepper 

Chop onion fine, add water and corn, simmer twenty 
minutes, stirring often. Make a white sauce of the milk, 
flour, and butter, following directions for White Sauces. 
Just before serving, turn the two mixtures together, bring 
to boil, add seasonings, and serve. 

A Cream of Corn Soup may be made of this by rubbing 
corn mixture through sieve before adding it to the white 
sauce. Serve with a spoonful of popcorn or of whipped 
cream on top of each dish of soup. 

Cream of Green Pea Soup 
2 gallon cans peas 2 onions sliced 

7 tablespoons sugar ij cups butter 

5 quarts cold water ij cups flour 

5 quarts milk 3 or more tablespoons salt 

i teaspoon pepper 



64 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Drain peas, add sugar and cold water, and simmer until 
peas are very soft; if water evaporates, add more. Rub 
through sieve, reheat, and thicken with butter and flour 
cooked together. Scald milk with onion, remove onion, 
and add milk to pea mixture. Season to taste, serve very 
hot. 

Split Pea Soup 

2 quarts split, dried peas 3 onions 

7 quarts cold water i cup butter 

3 quarts ham or corned I cup flour 

beef stock 2 quarts hot milk 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Pick over peas, soak over night, drain. Cook water, 
stock, onion, and peas together slowly three or four hours, 
or until peas are very soft. Rub through sieve and thicken 
with flour and butter which have been rubbed together. 
Bring to boiling point, add seasonings and hot milk. 
Beans may be used in place of split peas. 

Lima Bean Soup 

1} quarts dried Lima if cups butter 

beans i cup flour 

I cup chopped onion 5 quarts milk 

6 sprigs parsley Salt and paprika to taste 

6 stalks celery 4 or more teaspoons 

i cup chopped carrot Worcestershire sauce 

7 quarts cold water i teaspoon pepper 

Soak beans over night, drain. Add water, onion, celery, 
parsley, and carrot, and cook slowly three or four hours ; 
rub through sieve. Melt butter, add flour and milk, and 
cook thirty minutes in double boiler. Add seasonings, 



SOUPS 65 

combine mixtures, bring to boiling point, serve. Pea beans, 
instead of Lima beans, may be used for this soup. 

Baked Bean Soup 

4 quarts cold Boston 2 quarts stewed and 
baked beans strained tomato 

9 quarts cold water f cup butter 

i cup sliced onion f cup flour 

12 stalks celery Salt and pepper to taste 

Cook beans, water, onion, and celery together slowly 
thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add strained tomato, 
thicken with butter and flour cooked together; season to 
taste with salt and pepper. 

Cream of Cheese Soup 

6 quarts chicken stock 6 cups grated cheese 
6 quarts milk f teaspoon soda 

i cups butter i teaspoon paprika 

i cups flour Salt to taste 

Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauces. Add hot stock, soda, cheese, 
and seasonings. Serve as soon as cheese is melted. 

Tomato Soup 

2 gallon cans tomato 6 tablespoons sugar 

6 quarts water i teaspoon soda 

2 teaspoons peppercorns I cup butter 

6 small bay leaves ij cups flour 

1 teaspoon cloves Salt 

2 onions Pepper 

Cook together the first seven ingredients twenty minutes, 
strain, and add soda. Thicken with butter and flour 



66 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

cooked together, and season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Serve boiling hot. 



Cream of Tomato Soup 

6 quarts canned tomato 3 teaspoons soda 

I teaspoon peppercorns 6 quarts milk 

3 bay leaves ij cups butter 

3 sprigs parsley i cups flour 

I large onion Salt 

6 tablespoons sugar Pepper 

Stew first six ingredients together for thirty minutes, 
strain, and add soda. Make a white sauce of milk, butter, 
and flour, cooking it thirty minutes in double boiler. Add 
hot strained tomato and seasonings, and serve at once. 



Oyster Stew 

8 quarts milk 2 cups butter 

6 to 8 quarts oysters i teaspoon pepper 

3$ tablespoons salt Crackers 

Pick over oysters carefully, removing any bits of shell ; 
place in colander, pour over cold water, using six cups 
in all. Reserve oyster liquor, heat to boiling point, and 
strain through double cheesecloth. Heat milk in double 
boiler to scalding point, add oysters, and cook until oysters 
are plump and gills curled; add seasonings and oyster 
liquor, and pour at once into tureens. If desired, split 
crackers may be placed in bottom of tureens before turn- 
ing in stew. The oysters may be cooked in oyster liquor 
and added to milk just before serving, if preferred. 



SOUPS 67 

Potato Chowder 

5 quarts diced potatoes 3 quarts water 
i cup flour 2 pounds bacon 

i cup bacon fat 2 cups chopped onion 

8 quarts milk 4 tablespoons chopped 

5 tablespoons salt parsley 

i teaspoon pepper 

Pare and cut potatoes in small pieces or half -inch dice. 
Cut bacon in half -inch cubes, and cook slowly until crisp 
and light brown. Skim out bacon and stir flour into one 
and one-fourth cups of the fat. Put potatoes, bacon, 
onion, water, salt, and pepper into large stew kettle, cover, 
and simmer twenty minutes, or until potatoes are soft. 
Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, and bacon fat, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. Combine mixtures, 
add more seasonings if needed, put into tureens with split 
crackers in bottom, sprinkle parsley over top. Serve very 
hot. 

Corn Chowder 

5 quarts diced potatoes 5 cans corn 
5 slices salt pork CU P flour 

5 medium-sized onions 6 tablespoons salt 
3 quarts boiling water I teaspoon pepper 
7 quarts milk f cup butter 

Cut pork in half -inch cubes, and cook slowly until light 
brown and crisp ; add onion and cook slowly five minutes. 
Put potatoes, pork cubes, onion, and boiling water into 
kettle, and cook until potatoes are soft. Stir flour into the 
fat which was tried out from pork, then add to milk which 
has been heated in double boiler; cook twenty minutes. 
Add corn to potatoes, cook a few minutes, add milk, 
seasonings, and split crackers. 



68 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fish Chowder 

12 or more pounds cod 5 tablespoons salt 

or other white fish I teaspoon pepper 

5 quarts diced potatoes I cup butter 

5 sliced onions 5 quarts scalded milk 

5 slices salt pork 2 quarts boiling water 

2j quarts cold water Crackers 

Have fish skinned, but head and tail left on. Cut off 
head and tail and remove fish from backbone. Cut fish 
in two-inch pieces. Put head, tail, and backbone broken in 
pieces into kettle with cold water, bring slowly to boiling 
point, and simmer twenty minutes. Cut salt pork in half- 
inch cubes, cook slowly until yellow, add onion, and cook 
five minutes with gas turned low. Put potatoes, pork, 
onion, drippings, and boiling water into large kettle, boil 
five minutes, add fish and fish stock, and cook ten minutes. 
Add hot milk, salt to taste, pepper, butter, and crackers 
which have been soaked in cold milk or water. If cooked 
fish is used for chowder, do not put pieces of fish in until 
a few minutes before serving, for they will only need 
reheating. 

Clam Chowder 

4 or 5 quarts clams i cup flour 

5 quarts diced potatoes 5 tablespoons salt 
5 slices fat salt pork ij cups butter 

3 cups chopped onion 6 quarts scalded milk 
3i quarts water i teaspoon pepper 

Wash and pick over clams, drain. Chop finely hard 
part of clams. Cut potatoes in three- fourths inch cubes. 
Cut pork in half-inch cubes and cook slowly with onion 
ten minutes. Cook potatoes, onion, pork, chopped clams, 



SOUPS 69 

salt, pepper, and water fifteen minutes ; add soft part of 
clams, cook three minutes. Make a white sauce of milk, 
butter, and flour. Combine mixtures and add crackers 
soaked in cold milk. If clam liquor is used, it should be 
heated, strained, and added just before serving. 

Bean Stew 

2 quarts kidney beans 4 quarts water 

i gallon tomatoes I cup butter 

1 quart celery 4 quarts diced potatoes 

2 cups onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Soak beans over night, drain. Cut celery in half -inch 
pieces, chop onion, strain tomatoes. Put first five ingredi- 
ents together into large stew kettle, bring to boiling point, 
then simmer slowly five or more hours. If stew is to be 
used for the midday meal, it would be well to let cook all 
night in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven. About forty- 
five minutes before serving, add potatoes, butter, and 
seasonings. 

Mexican Chili 

2 quarts red kidney beans i quart tomatoes 
4 pounds Hamburg steak 3 large chopped onions 
pound suet Salt and Chili powder 

8 or more quarts water to taste 

Wash and soak beans for several hours, drain. Add five 
quarts water and cook slowly until soft. They may be 
cooked all night in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven. Cut 
suet in very small pieces, add steak and three quarts or 
more water, cook slowly three hours. When half done, 
add strained tomatoes and onion. Half an hour before 
serving add beans and seasonings. Serve with crackers 
and cucumber pickles. 



7O RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Parsnip Stew 

3 or 4 pounds fresh raw 10 quarts water 

or roast pork 18 medium-size parsnips 
J pound salt pork 8 pounds potatoes 

6 medium onions Salt and pepper to taste 

Remove any burned parts from roast pork, add water, 
and cook slowly one hour, or until meat is tender ; strain 
liquor into large kettle, cut meat in small pieces. Cut salt 
pork in half-inch dice, add sliced onion, and cook slowly 
until pork is crisp and onion is yellow. Wash, peel, and 
cut parsnips in slices. If slices are very large, quarter 
them. Turn salt pork, onion, and parsnips into kettle with 
pork stock ; cook thirty minutes, add potatoes cut in small 
slices or pieces ; cook thirty minutes longer, or until vege- 
tables are quite soft. Mix three-fourths cup flour with 
cold water until free from lumps, stir into stew, boil three 
minutes. Add meat, and salt and pepper to taste. 



FISH 

FISH must be perfectly fresh ; the flesh should be firm, 
the gills red, and the eyes bright. Frozen fish may be 
kept a long time, but must be used at once when thawed, 
as it spoils more quickly than fresh fish. Do not keep fish 
in refrigerator with milk, butter, and such foods, on ac- 
count of the odor. Have an ice box or cold storage room 
for fish, meat, etc. In case there is no provision made for 
such foods, put fish in a tightly-covered tin receptacle 
before placing in refrigerator. 

Although fish are cleaned at market, additional clean- 
ing is usually necessary. Remove any scales by scraping 
slowly from tail toward head, holding knife nearly flat 
on fish. Rinse knife often in cold water. Remove with a 
sharp knife any clots of blood. Wipe fish thoroughly inside 
and out with a cloth wrung out of cold salted water. Do 
not put fish into water. 

To skin a fish: With a sharp knife cut off a narrow strip 
of skin the whole length of back, removing also the fins 
along the back. Insert a sharp-pointed knife under the 
skin near the gills, and loosen the skin carefully by work- 
ing the knife down toward the tail on one side, then turn 
fish and remove skin from other side. 

When fish are in season: Cod, haddock, halibut, floun- 
ders, bass, pickerel, lobster, and clams are in season at all 
times; salmon and mackerel, May to September; shad, 
January to June; bluefish, May to October; perch, pike, 
sturgeon, and crabs, all summer; whitefish and cusk in 
winter; swordfish, July to September; turbot, January 

71 



72 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to March ; smelts, September to March ; oysters, Septem- 
ber to May. 

Cooking and serving of fish: Fish is sufficiently cooked 
when the flesh begins to separate from the bones. Over- 
boiling makes it soft and watery. Salt and vinegar or 
lemon juice are often added to the water in which fish 
is boiled ; the former improves the flavor, the latter keeps 
the flesh white. Fish should always be served with some- 
thing acid. This may be in a sauce, such as Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter or Hollandaise Sauce, or in a garnish of lemon or 
pickle, or in a vegetable accompanying the fish, as fresh 
cucumbers or a salad. Of the many garnishes for fish, the 
following are easily prepared : parsley, watercress, shreds 
of red or green pepper ; slices of lemon, plain or sprinkled 
with finely-chopped parsley ; hard-cooked eggs, tomatoes, 
cucumbers, stuffed olives, or sliced pickles. 

Boiled Fish 

Clean fish as directed. Place on rack of fish kettle, or 
tie in cheesecloth and drop in a large kettle half full of 
boiling water. Cover kettle and simmer gently the re- 
quired time, which varies with size and thickness of fish. 
See Time-table. Small cod, haddock, bass, cusk, and 
salmon are cooked whole ; large fish, such as halibut, are 
cut in thick pieces. When done, place on platters, remove 
dark skin, garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and 
serve with Egg Sauce ; or garnish with parsley and eggs, 
and serve with Pickle Sauce. 

Steamed Fish 

Wrap fish in pieces of cheesecloth. Lay on plates in 
steamer, and cook until flesh separates from bone. Serve 
as Boiled Fish. 



FISH 73 

Broiled Fish 

Clean fish as directed, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and put in well-greased wire broiler. Slices of fish should 
be turned often while cooking ; whole fish should be first 
broiled on flesh side, then turned, and cooked on skin side 
long enough to brown and crisp the skin. Loosen fish on 
both sides, slip from broiler to hot platter. Spread white 
fish with Maitre d'Hotel Butter ; oily fish with plain butter 
and more salt if needed. Garnish as desired. 

Cod, haddock, bluefish, shad, cusk, or mackerel are split 
down the back and broiled whole, with or without the head 
and tail. Salmon, swordfish, and halibut are cut in inch 
slices for broiling. Smelts and other small fish are left 
whole. Cod and haddock are usually scrodded for broil- 
ing that is, split down the back and boned. 

To Broil with Gas 

Clean six four-pound fish as directed, brush skin side 
of fish generously with pork drippings, sprinkle flesh 
side with salt and pepper. Grease thoroughly rack in 
broiling oven, lay fish on rack with skin side down. Cook 
twenty to thirty minutes, or until flakes begin to separate 
and flesh is delicately browned. Do not turn. When done, 
loosen fish from rack, place on platters, spread with 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, if a white fish ; or with plain butter, 
if a dark or oily fish. Slices of fish may be laid on a well- 
greased shallow pan, instead of on the rack, if desired. 

Baked Fish with Stuffing 

Cod, haddock, cusk, bluefish, mackerel, etc., may be 
cooked in this way. Clean six four-pound fish, sprinkle 



74 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

inside and out with salt, stuff and sew. If white fish, cut 
gashes on each side of backbone and insert strips of fat 
salt pork. Shape in form of letter S, fastening with 
skewers and twine. Or the head, tail, and backbone may 
be removed, the fish stuffed, and laid flat in pan. Place 
on greased fish-sheet or on bottom of dripping pans. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush with melted butter 
or pork drippings, dredge with flour, and place around 
fish small pieces of fat salt pork. Baste often while 
baking. See Time-table on page 82. Serve with Drawn 
Butter, Egg, or Hollandaise Sauce. 

Plain Stuffing 
6 cups cracker or bread i-J teaspoons salt 

crumbs f teaspoon pepper 

ij cups melted butter i cups hot water 

Mix ingredients in order given. This stuffing may be 
varied by adding six teaspoons each of parsley, capers, 
and pickles, and a little onion juice. This quantity is 
sufficient for six four-pound fish. 

Oyster Stuffing 

6 cups cracker crumbs 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
i-J cups melted butter 3 tablespoons finely- 
2j teaspoons salt chopped parsley 

J teaspoon pepper 4 cups oysters 

Clean and drain oysters, mix with crumbs and season- 
ings, moisten with melted butter and a little oyster liquor, 
if needed. 

Baked Fish without Stuffing 

Spread pork drippings, or thin slices of salt pork, in the 
bottom of agate dripping pans. Lay on this slices of large 



FISH 75 

fish, or smaller fish which have been split open and boned. 
Spread with melted butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Bake in a hot oven until the flakes begin to separate. 
Remove to hot platters, spread with plain or Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter, garnish, and serve. 

Or bake until nearly done, then pour over fish rich milk 
or thin cream, allowing one cup to a fish; finish baking 
and serve. 

Halibut a la Creole 

1 8 pounds halibut 3 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts tomatoes I cup butter 

i quart water I cup flour 

6 slices onion I tablespoon salt 

6 tablespoons mild pepper -J teaspoon paprika 

Cook tomato, water, onion, pepper, and sugar together 
twenty minutes. Melt butter, add flour, stir into hot mix- 
ture. Add salt and paprika, cook ten minutes, and strain. 
Cut fish into six pieces, clean, put into baking dishes, pour 
over it the sauce, cover, bake thirty-five minutes. Remove 
to platters, pouring sauce over fish. If halibut is cooked 
whole, a longer time should be allowed for baking. 

Fried Fish 

Small fish are cooked whole ; large fish are divided into 
sections or slices of any desired size. Clean, wipe dry, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then in egg and 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain. 

Or roll in flour or cornmeal, and saute in salt pork drip- 
pings in frying pan. 



76 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Kippered Herrings 

Remove fish from eight cans of kippered herrings. Lay 
in shallow agate pans or on platters that can be put in 
oven. Sprinkle with pepper and lemon juice, pour over 
the liquor from cans, put in oven until well heated, and 
garnish with parsley and lemon slices. 

Buttered Finnan Haddie 

Put six four-pound fish in large pan, cover with cold 
water, bring to boiling point, and simmer slowly twenty- 
five minutes; drain. Put on platters, spread generously 
with butter, put in oven until butter is melted. 



SHELLFISH 

To Parboil Oysters 

Clean oysters by putting into a colander or strainer, 
pouring a small amount of cold water through them and 
removing any pieces of shell. 

Put one quart oysters at a time in saucepan, add one- 
half teaspoon salt, and shake over fire until gills are curled 
and oysters plump. 

Raw Oysters 

Use small, plump oysters, allowing six to each person. 
Clean shells thoroughly and serve oysters on deep halves. 
Arrange on plates of crushed ice, with valve end of shells 
toward center of plate, and with a slice of lemon in the 
center. 



FISH 77 



Fried Oysters 

Clean one and one-half gallons oysters, dry on a towel ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper ; dip in flour or fine crumbs, 
egg, and crumbs again. Fry in hot fat, drain, and serve 
at once. Or saute in butter or bacon fat in a frying pan. 



Panned Oysters 

Clean and drain two gallons oysters. Melt two table- 
spoons butter in a hot frying pan, add one pint oysters, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring constantly, 
until edges curl. Turn into double boiler to keep hot, but 
keep water in lower part just below boiling point, or 
oysters will be cooked too much. Continue until all the 
oysters are cooked. Serve on toast, moistening with oyster 
liquor. 

Creamed Oysters 

4 quarts milk and oyster 4 quarts oysters 

liquor I teaspoon celery salt or 

2 cups butter 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

2j cups flour i cup chopped mush- 

4 teaspoons salt rooms if desired 

J teaspoon pepper 

Parboil oysters, drain ; add enough rich milk to strained 
oyster liquor to make four quarts. Make a white sauce of 
the first four ingredients, following directions for White 
Sauce. Add pepper, celery salt or lemon juice, and oysters. 
When very hot, serve on well-toasted bread which has been 
moistened in hot salted water. 



78 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Oysters 

6 quarts oysters 6 cups cracker crumbs 

ij cups oyster liquor 3 cups melted butter 

J cup milk or cream Salt 

3 cups stale bread crumbs Pepper 

Mix bread and cracker crumbs and stir in butter. Put 
a thin layer in bottom of buttered baking dishes, cover 
with cleaned oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper ; repeat. 
Dip oyster liquor and cream over top, cover with remain- 
ing crumbs. Bake thirty minutes in hot oven. A little 
finely-chopped celery is an improvement. There should 
never be more than two layers to a dish for scalloped 
oysters. 

Steamed Clams 

Wash and scrub clam shells, changing the water several 
times. Put into large kettle, allowing one cup hot water 
to one peck clams. Cover closely and cook until shells 
open, remove at once from fire or clams will be overcooked. 
Serve hot with melted butter. 

Scalloped Clams 

6 quarts clams I cup melted butter 

6 quarts cracker crumbs Paprika to taste 
Salt to taste 18 well-beaten eggs 

Drain the liquor from clams and set aside. Chop clams 
fine. Moisten cracker crumbs with equal parts of clam 
liquor and milk. Season with paprika and salt to taste, 
add melted butter, well-beaten eggs, and clams. Mix 
thoroughly and put into well-greased baking dishes. Bake 
until brown. 



FISH 79 

Lobster 

To open a lobster: Wipe it, break off the claws, separate 
tail from body by twisting and pulling at same time. 
Remove meat from body; save the liver and coral, but 
discard stomach and lungs. Break the large claws, or if 
shell is soft, cut with scissors, and remove meat whole. 
Crush the tail shell and remove meat in one piece ; cut the 
meat open lengthwise and remove intestinal canal. 

Lobster should be cooked only long enough to heat it 
through, or it will be tough. 

Creamed Lobster 

Remove meat from shell and cut in cubes or small pieces. 
Make White Sauce II, allowing one quart sauce for each 
quart meat. Season with salt, paprika, chopped parsley, 
and lemon juice. Add lobster meat, reheat, and serve on 
toast or in patty shells. 

Scalloped Lobster 

Prepare as for Creamed Lobster, using White Sauce I ; 
put in baking dishes, ramekins, or scallop shells, cover with 
buttered crumbs, bake until crumbs are delicately browned. 

Deviled Lobster 

Prepare as for Creamed Lobster, with the addition of 
two teaspoons each of onion juice, Worcestershire Sauce, 
and mustard, a few grains cayenne, and a few drops 
Tabasco, for each quart of sauce. 

Shrimps and Crabs 

Shrimps and crabs maybe creamed, scalloped, or deviled, 
like lobster. 



80 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Scallops 

Cover six or eight quarts scallops with boiling water, 
let stand three minutes, drain, and dry with cheesecloth. 
Season with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, egg, and 
crumbs again. Fry in deep fat, or saute in butter in fry- 
ing pan. Serve with Sauce Tartare. 

Deviled Scallops 

8 quarts scallops 8 tablespoons tomato catsup 

i cup butter 8 teaspoons mustard 

8 tablespoons Worcester- Juice 4 lemons 
shire Sauce 4 teaspoons salt 

4 teaspoons paprika 

Parboil scallops two minutes, drain. Melt butter, add 
Worcestershire Sauce and other seasonings, bring to boil- 
ing point, serve. 

Scalloped Scallops 

6 quarts scallops 2 cups butter 

3 or more cups chopped i cups flour 

mushrooms 2.\ quarts rich milk 

i cups chopped onion \ quart scallop liquor 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Parboil scallops two minutes. Drain and chop or cut 
in slices. Melt butter, add onion and mushrooms, cook 
slowly five minutes. Add flour, stir well, and add hot milk 
and liquor, stirring all the time. When smooth and thick- 
ened, add scallops, put in buttered baking dishes, and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



MEATS 

GOOD beef is firm and fine-grained in texture, bright 
red in color, and well mottled with fat, which should be 
firm and yellowish white. 

Meat should be removed from wrapping paper as soon 
as it comes from the market, as the paper will absorb 
some of the juices. 

Keep meat in a cool place, but never put it in the ice 
compartment of a refrigerator, because the excessive 
moisture hastens decay. In case of insufficient refrigerator 
space, a large order may be given at one time, the butcher 
delivering it as required. 

Tender meats, such as the rump, the loin, or the ribs, 
should be broiled, pan-broiled, or roasted; but tough 
meats, like the flank, the round, or the brisket, should be 
cooked in water very slowly for several hours. But what- 
ever the method of cookery, the meat should first be sub- 
jected to a high temperature long enough to sear the 
outside, thus preventing the escape of the meat juices. 

As a rule, the palatability and digestibility of dark meats 
are greater when served rare, but of white meats when 
thoroughly cooked. 

Meats must be weighed, trimmed, and wiped with a 
cloth wrung out of cold water, but must never be put into 
water, as that draws out the meat juices. 



81 



82 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

TIME-TABLE FOR COOKERY OF MEATS AND FISH 



Boiling 


Beef 


Range 


Aladdin Oven 


Braised or pot roast 


4 to 5 hrs. 


5 to 6 hrs. 


Stew 


3 to 4 hrs. 


4 to 5 hrs. 


Corned 


4 to 5 hrs. 


5 to 6 hrs. 


Cod (see Haddock) 






Fowl 


2 to 3 hrs. 


3 to 4 hrs. 


Haddock (3 to 5 Ib. pieces) 


20 to 30 min. 




Halibut (3 Ib. pieces) 


30 min. 




Ham (15 Ibs.) 


4 to 5 hrs. 


5 to 6 hrs. 


Mutton, leg or shoulder 


2 to 3 hrs. 


3 to 4 hrs. 


Stew 


2 to 3 hrs. 


2 to 3 hrs. 


Veal stew 


3 to 4 hrs. 


4 hrs. 


Baking 


Beef, rump or sirloin, rare 


10 min. to Ib. 


15-20 min. to Ib. 


Chicken 


2 hrs. 


3 hrs. 


Fish (3 to 4 Ibs. each) 


i hr. 


2 hrs. 


Lamb 


2 hrs. 


3 hrs. 


Yearling 


2jto3 hrs. 


4 to 5 hrs. 


Chops 


\ hr. 




Turkey 


3 hr s. 


4 hrs. 


Veal, leg or shoulder 


4 to 5 hrs. 


6 to 7 hrs. 



MEATS 83 

BEEF 

Broiled Steak 

Trim off superfluous or tainted fat from fifteen to twenty 
pounds sirloin or rump steak, and wipe with cloth wrung 
out of cold water. Grease wire broiler with some of the 
fat, put meat in broiler, and broil over clear fire, turning 
almost constantly until surface is well seared, then occa- 
sionally until done. Steak cut one inch thick will require 
five minutes if liked rare, six minutes if medium, and ten 
minutes or so if well done. Remove to hot platters, spread 
with butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

To Broil with Gas. Trim off fat and wipe steak. Light 
gas in broiling oven five to ten minutes before using. 
Grease rack in broiling pan with piece of fat. Lay steak 
on rack, and when broiler is hot, place pan on highest 
notch, so as to be as near flame as possible. As soon as 
steak is seared on one side, turn and sear other side. In 
turning, put the fork into steak as near edge as possible, 
in order to prevent escape of juices. When well seared, 
lower pan about six inches and cook slowly three to five 
minutes, then turn steak and cook from three to five minutes 
on that side. The time depends upon thickness of steak. 
Remove to platters, season with salt, pepper, butter, and 
drippings from broiling pan. 

Broiled steak may be served with Maitre d'Hotel Butter 
or Mushroom Sauce. 

Steak with Onions 

Slice one peck onions, cover with boiling water, cook 
slowly twenty minutes, drain. When well drained, put 
in saucepan or aluminum kettle, and let simmer until a 



84 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

portion of the water has evaporated. Add one-half cup 
or more butter and salt to. taste. Stir onions often until 
soft and slightly browned. When steak is broiled and 
seasoned, cover with onions and send at once to table. 

Hamburg Steak 
10 pounds finely-chopped i teaspoon pepper 

raw beef 3J tablespoons or more 

| cup minced onion salt 

| cup minced green peppers 

Chop onion very fine. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 
Shape in form of steaks one inch in thickness, or in small, 
flat cakes. Broil or pan-broil, spread with butter or Maitre 
d'Hotel Butter, or serve with Brown, Mushroom, or 
Tomato Sauce. The peppers may be omitted. 

Beefsteak Roll 

Take large, thin slices of steak from the round: there 
should be about ten pounds. Wipe meat and lay out flat. 
Prepare stuffing as for roast chicken. Spread it evenly 
over slices of steak, roll up tightly, and tie with string, 
securing ends well. Saute rolls in iron frying pan in salt 
pork drippings, turning them so as to be well browned on 
all sides. Put rolls in covered roasting pans, pour over 
drippings and enough boiling water to cover bottom of 
pans. Cover and cook slowly two or three hours, turning 
meat once, and adding more water if needed. Take meat 
out on platters, remove strings, and keep hot while gravy 
is made. Make gravy from liquid in pans, allowing eight 
tablespoons flour to each quart of liquid. Mix flour with 
water to pour easily. Season with salt, pepper, and kitchen 
bouquet. Serve in gravy boats. Carve steak by cutting 
crosswise through beef and stuffing. 



MEATS 85 

Roast Beef 

There should be from fifteen to twenty pounds, and it 
may be left in one large piece or cut in two. Wipe, trim- 
ming off any fat or skin which may be discolored or 
tainted. Put on rack in dripping pans, skin side down, 
rub over with salt, dredge with flour. Place in hot oven, 
in order to sear surface quickly. As soon as flour in 
bottom of pan is browned, reduce heat and cook the re- 
quired time, basting often. See Time-Table for Cooking. 
If meat is quite lean, put two or three tablespoons drip- 
pings in pans. When meat is about half done, turn, dredge 
other side with flour, and finish roasting. 

To Roast in Aladdin Oven. Trim and wipe meat as 
above. Saute in hot greased frying pan, turning so as to 
brown all sides. Lay on rack in dripping pans. Unless 
there is plenty of fat on roasts, put two or three table- 
spoons drippings in pans. Light oven one hour before 
using. Put in meat, allowing fifteen to twenty minutes 
to the pound for roasting. Turn meat and change pans 
around when half done, in order that meat may be uni- 
formly cooked. Serve Brown Gravy or Mushroom Sauce 
with roast beef. 

Brown Gravy 

i cups drippings 2^ quarts water 

i cups flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Pour off clear fat, reserving one and one-half cups of 
brown drippings in bottom of pans. Turn this into large 
saucepan, stir in browned flour. When smooth, add hot 
water, stirring constantly until smooth and thickened. 
Boil five minutes, season to taste. The gravy should be 
of a rich brown color, but if it is not, add kitchen bouquet 



86 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

as needed. Strain if lumpy. Brown the flour in frying 
pan, stirring constantly until a uniform yellowish brown 
color. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

i quarts milk i teaspoons salt 

i quarts flour 6 egg's 

Mix salt with flour, add milk gradually, that mixture 
may not become lumpy. Add beaten eggs, then beat mix- 
ture two minutes with Dover egg beater. Cover bottom 
of hot pans with hot beef drippings; pour in batter to 
depth of one-half inch. Bake thirty minutes, or until 
brown all over, basting, when well risen, with hot beef 
drippings. Cut in squares and serve around roast. 

Braised Beef 

12 to 15 pounds beef i quarts diced turnips 

from lower part of i cups onion 

round 2 teaspoons peppercorns 

ij quarts diced carrots i cups celery 

2.\ quarts boiling water 2 cups diced salt pork 

Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and brown entire surface in beef or pork drippings 
in frying pan. Put beef into kettle with closely fitting 
cover, add vegetables, pork, seasonings, and boiling water. 
Bring to boil, put into oven, and cook slowly four or five 
hours. When meat is tender, strain off two and one-half 
quarts liquor, thicken with one cup flour mixed to a smooth 
paste with cold water, season to taste with salt, pepper, 
and kitchen bouquet, and serve in gravy boats. Serve 
vegetables as a garnish for the meat. 



MEATS / 

Pressed Beef 

12 pounds beef from flank, 2 cups onion 

brisket, or round 2 cups carrot 

I tablespoon salt i teaspoon peppercorns 

Sweet herbs to taste J cup vinegar 

Wipe and trim meat, cover with boiling water, bring to 
boiling point, simmer until meat is in shreds. Add vege- 
tables and seasonings one hour before it is done. Remove 
meat and pack in long, narrow pans. Reduce liquor to 
three cups, strain and pour over meat. Cover and press 
with a heavy weight. Serve cold in thin slices. 

Corned Beef 

Wash corned beef, put in kettle, cover with cold water, 
bring slowly to boiling point. Boil five minutes, remove 
scum, and cook slowly until tender. If it is to be pressed, 
cook until it falls to pieces, and let it stand in water until 
partially cooled. Pack it in brick-shaped pans, laying the 
long fibers lengthwise, and mixing in the fat so that it will 
be well marbled. Press until cold. Fifteen pounds is 
sufficient for one meal, but from twenty to twenty-five 
pounds will be needed if it is desired to have enough left 
over for hash. 

Boiled Dinner 

Prepare and cook corned beef as above, being careful 
that it does not cook to pieces. Two hours before dinner 
remove meat and a part of the liquor to another kettle, 
and replace in Aladdin oven or on back of range to keep 
hot, or to cook more if necessary. Have small cabbages 
cut in eighths, carrots and turnips in any desired shape, 
small potatoes left whole. Skim off fat from corned beef 



88 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

liquor, put in carrots and cook thirty minutes, add cabbage 
and turnips and cook from thirty to forty-five minutes, 
then add potatoes and cook until all are done. If there is 
not sufficient liquor, add boiling water. Serve cabbage 
in separate dishes, the other vegetables on platters with 
beef. Serve mustard or mustard pickles with corned beef. 

Boiled Tongue 

Wash twelve pounds corned tongues, cover with cold 
water, bring slowly to a boil, boil five minutes, removing 
the scum as it rises. Simmer three or four hours, or until 
tender. Remove skin and roots, and serve hot with 
Piquante or Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce. Or let cool 
in liquor in which they are cooked, and peel just before 
serving. Arrange slices overlapping each other around 
platters, with watercress piled in center. Serve with 
Tartare Sauce. 

Fresh tongues may be used instead of corned, but 
should be put directly into boiling water. 

Braised Tongue 

3 fresh beef tongues i cup diced carrot 

I cup onion I cup diced celery 

Wash tongues, put in kettle, cover with boiling water, 
and cook slowly two hours. Remove skin and roots, put 
tongues in deep pan, surround with vegetables, and pour 
over the sauce. Cover closely and cook two hours in slow 
oven, turning meat once. Slice, arrange on platters, pour 
the hot sauce over meat, and serve at once. 

Sauce. Melt one cup butter, add one cup flour, and stir 
until smooth and well browned. Add two quarts water 
in which tongue was cooked. Season with three teaspoons 
Worcestershire Sauce, salt, and pepper. 



MEATS 89 

Beef Stew 

I cup beef drippings 6 bay leaves 

12 pounds beef 6 sprigs parsley 

4 tablespoons salt 2 quarts diced turnip 

i teaspoon peppercorns 2 quarts diced carrot 

12 cloves 6 small sliced onions 

Pepper Coarse stalks celery 

Use any of the less expensive cuts of meat; left-over 
roast or steak may be used, in which case it is not necessary 
to brown it again. 

Cut beef in one-inch cubes. Dredge two-thirds of the 
meat with flour and brown it in the drippings. Put in a 
large kettle with remaining meat, add three quarts boiling 
water, and cook slowly four or more hours. Add vege- 
tables and seasonings two hours before serving. If it is 
desired to have potatoes in stew, cut them in slices and 
add half an hour before taking from fire. Thicken with 
two cups flour mixed with enough water to pour easily. 
Watch carefully while thickening, lest it burn on the 
bottom. Gravy left from roast beef should be added to 
the stew. Serve very hot with dumplings or baking powder 
biscuit. 

Dumplings 

2 quarts flour 5J tablespoons baking 
4 teaspoons salt powder 

3 tablespoons shortening 3 cups milk 

Sift dry ingredients together, rub in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add milk gradually, using a knife for 
mixing. Take on floured board, pat and roll out to one- 
half inch thickness. Shape with a small biscuit cutter. 



9O RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Place close together in buttered steamer, cover closely, 
steam twelve minutes. Serve at once. 



Spanish Stew 

12 pounds beef i or 2 sweet green peppers 

2 quarts tomatoes 3 large onions 

1 quart water Salt to taste 

Cut beef in one-inch cubes. Dredge two-thirds of the 
meat with flour and brown in beef drippings. Seed and 
chop peppers, slice onions, strain tomatoes. Put all in- 
gredients into large kettle, bring to boiling point, and 
simmer four hours, or until meat is tender. Before serv- 
ing, thicken with two cups flour mixed with enough water 
to pour easily. Stir almost constantly until it thickens and 
boils, in order to prevent its sticking and burning on 
bottom. 

Beef Loaf 

10 pounds raw beef 8 eggs 

2 pounds fat salt pork 3 or more tablespoons salt 
6 cups dry bread crumbs 5 teaspoons mixed herbs 
4 cups water or stock 5 tablespoons minced 

more or less as needed onion 

i teaspoon pepper 

Chop meat and onion very fine. If bread is hard and 
dry, dip for a moment in cold water, then wring dry in 
cloth before crumbling. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, 
pack in brick-shaped pans, bake two and one-half hours 
in Aladdin oven, or in range with slow heat. Baste occa- 
sionally. Serve hot or cold. 



MEATS 91 

Beef a la Paysanne 

10 pounds finely-chopped 3 tablespoons salt 
raw beef I teaspoon pepper 

4 pint cans tomato soup 3 cups buttered crumbs 

Mix beef thoroughly with salt and pepper. Rinse out 
cans with half as much water as there is soup. Put a layer 
of meat in bottom of casserole or baking dishes, then a 
layer of soup, another layer of meat, and so on until all 
the beef and soup are used. Cover with a thin layer of 
buttered crumbs. Bake two hours in Aladdin or other 
slow oven. Serve from the dishes in which it is cooked. 

Liver with Bacon 

Have six or more pounds beef liver cut in slices one- 
half inch in thickness. Pour boiling water over liver, let 
stand five minutes, drain. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour, and cook slowly in plenty of bacon fat 
until well cooked and browned slightly on both sides. 
Arrange on platters with crisp bacon. See directions for 
cooking bacon. 

Liver Loaf 

10 pounds sliced liver 3 teaspoons poultry season- 
2 tablespoons onion ing 

2 tablespoons salt 6 tablespoons vinegar or 

8 eggs well beaten juice of 2 lemons 

6 cups stale bread crumbs 

Cook liver in boiling salted water five minutes, drain, 
and chop fine. Mince onion very fine. Soak bread in cold 
water and wring dry in a cloth. Mix ingredients thor- 
oughly. Line brick-shaped pans with thin slices bacon, 



92 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

pack tightly with liver mixture, cover with bacon, and 
bake two hours or more in moderate oven. Turn from 
molds and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

Braised Liver 

12 pounds beef liver 2 cups diced turnip 

2 cups diced carrot I pound salt pork 

2 cups diced onion 2 teaspoons peppercorns 

2 cups diced celery 2 teaspoons whole cloves 

3 bay leaves 

Pour boiling water over liver, let stand five minutes, 
then saute on all sides in hot pork or bacon drippings. 
Put meat in kettle, add vegetables and seasonings, lay thin 
slices pork or bacon over meat, add two quarts water or 
stock, cover closely, and cook three or more hours in slow 
oven. Remove meat, strain liquor, and thicken, using 
eight tablespoons flour to one quart liquid. Season to 
taste with salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet ; serve in gravy 
boats. Arrange sliced liver on platters, garnish with the 
vegetables, and serve with it fresh or pickled cucumbers, 
or tomato catsup. 

Tripe in Batter 

Wash eight pounds pickled honeycomb tripe, cover with 
boiling water, and simmer gently thirty minutes, or till 
tender. Drain, wipe as dry as possible, and cut in pieces 
for serving. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in batter, 
cook in frying pans in a small quantity of hot fat until 
well browned on both sides. Drain on brown paper. 

Batter. Mix and sift five cups flour, one and one- fourth 
teaspoons salt, and seven teaspoons baking powder. Add 
one and two-thirds cups milk and five well-beaten eggs. 



MEATS 93 

Lyonnaise Tripe 

10 pounds honeycomb tripe 2j cups chopped onion 
2 cups butter 6 tablespoons minced 

Salt to taste parsley 

i teaspoon paprika 

Cook tripe in plenty of boiling water until very tender. 
Drain, cut in two-inch squares or strips. Cook onion 
slowly in butter until soft, turn in tripe, and toss about 
until butter is absorbed and tripe slightly browned. 
Sprinkle with salt, paprika, and parsley. If tripe is not 
pickled, add lemon juice or vinegar to taste. Serve very 
hot in covered dishes. 

Tripe a la Creole 

10 pounds tripe I cups chopped onion 

ij cups flour f cup chopped green 

i cups butter pepper 

3 quarts strained tomato 

Melt butter, add pepper and onion, and cook until onion 
is soft and yellowish in color. Add flour, stir until smooth, 
then add tomato, stirring constantly until smooth and 
thickened. Season to taste with salt. Boil tripe until 
tender, cut in two-inch pieces, add to sauce, and simmer 
ten minutes. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 
Broiled Chops 

Wipe fifteen pounds chops, trim off superfluous fat, and 
broil, following directions for Broiled Steak, and allow- 
ing from six to eight minutes if liked rare, and from eight 



94 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to ten if liked well done. Arrange chops in circle on hot 
platters, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and spread with 
butter if desired. 

Pan-Broiled Chops 

Prepare as for Broiled Chops. Put in hissing-hot fry- 
ing pans, sear, turn, and sear other side. Turn often, but 
do not pierce chops with fork, or juices will escape. Cook 
about six minutes if liked rare, eight to ten minutes if 
liked well done. If much fat collects in pan, pour it off. 
Turn chops on edge long enough to brown fat. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, spread with butter if desired, and 
serve very hot. 

Baked Chops 

Wipe and trim chops, arrange on rack in dripping pans, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook in hot oven thirty 
minutes, turning them when about half done. Remove to 
hot platters and serve at once. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Remove caul from two twelve-pound legs of mutton, 
wipe meat, put in kettle. Cover with boiling water, bring 
to boiling point, and boil five minutes, removing scum as 
it rises. Simmer until meat is tender, allowing fifteen 
minutes to the pound. When half done, add three table- 
spoons salt. Serve with Caper Sauce. 

Roast Lamb 

Three eight-pound legs of yearlings will be sufficient. 
Remove caul and outer skin, wipe, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour, place on rack in dripping pans. 
If cooked in range or gas oven, allow fifteen minutes to 
the pound, basting often. If cooked in Aladdin oven, 



MEATS 95 

allow twenty-five or thirty minutes to the pound, turning 
meat and changing pans around when half done. Serve 
with Brown Gravy made as for Beef Roast, or with Mint 
Sauce. 

Braised Leg of Mutton 

Have two twelve-pound legs of mutton boned. Wipe, 
roll, and tie securely in shape. Melt one-half cup pork fat, 
add one cup each diced onion, turnip, and carrot, two bay 
leaves, and two sprigs parsley. Cook five minutes, add 
two quarts boiling water, one tablespoon salt, and one- 
half teaspoon peppercorns ; pour over the mutton. Cover 
closely and cook slowly three hours. Remove from pan 
and keep hot while making sauce. Melt one and one- 
fourth cups butter or drippings, add one and one-fourth 
cups flour, stir till well browned, then add strained liquor 
from pan. There should be two quarts. 

Roast Shoulder of Lamb 

Have three shoulders of yearlings boned at market. 
Wipe with damp cloth, sprinkle with salt, stuff, roll, and 
tie securely. The stuffing may be omitted if preferred. 
Put into boiling salted water to nearly cover, boil five 
minutes, removing scum as it rises. Cook gently in Aladdin 
oven or over simmerer two hours, or until tender. Then 
remove from water, drain, put in dripping pans, dredge 
with flour, salt, and pepper, and cook in hot oven forty- 
five minutes, or until brown and crisp on surface. Baste 
with some of Jhe liquor in which meat was cooked. Make 
Brown Gravy with drippings and stock, following direc- 
tions given with Beef Roast. If gravy is colorless or 
insipid, add kitchen bouquet. Stuffing may be made as for 
Roast Shoulder of Veal, omitting lemon juice. 



96 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Irish Stew 

1 6 pounds mutton I quart diced carrot 

6 quarts potatoes I quart diced turnip 

6 large onions Salt and pepper to taste 

Wipe and cut in small pieces about sixteen pounds from 
forequarter of mutton. Saute half of it in beef or pork 
drippings until well browned. Put all the meat into kettle, 
add three quarts boiling water, bring to boiling point, and 
cook slowly in Aladdin oven or on back of range three 
hours. At end of first hour, add sliced onions, turnip, and 
carrot. An hour later add potatoes cut in one-third inch 
slices, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Before 
serving, thicken with two cups flour stirred to a smooth 
paste with cold water. Boil two minutes or more, stirring 
carefully to prevent burning. Serve with Dumplings or 
small Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Lamb Stew 

1 6 pounds lamb from 4 small cans peas 

the forequarter 2 quarts stock or water 

4 onions sliced 2 quarts strained tomato 

I cup drippings Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut meat into one-inch cubes. Fry onions in drippings 
till slightly colored, then skim into kettle. Dredge meat 
with flour and brown in drippings. Put meat and stock 
in kettle with onion, cover, cook slowly in Aladdin oven, 
or on range two hours, or until lamb is tender. Soak 
pieces of toast in the hot seasoned tomato and arrange on 
platters. Skim out meat, put on toast, and keep hot. Add 
remainder of tomato to stock, and thicken with one and 
one-half cups flour mixed to a paste with cold water. Boil 



MEATS 97 

till thickened, add peas, season, heat thoroughly, and pour 
over meat and toast. Mutton may be used instead of lamb. 

Fricassee of Lamb 

12 to 1 6 pounds meat 3 quarts water 
from the forequarter I onion sliced 
Bacon fat Salt and pepper to taste 

Have lamb boned and cut in pieces for serving. Wipe, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and 
brown in bacon fat. Put in kettle, add boiling water, 
boil five minutes, removing scum as it rises. Simmer in 
Aladdin oven, or on range, two hours for lamb, three 
hours for mutton. Remove from kettle and keep hot while 
sauce is made. Melt one cup bacon fat, cook onion in it 
slowly five minutes. Remove onion, add one and one- 
fourth cups flour, stir till smooth, add three quarts of the 
stock in which meat has been cooked, and from which all 
fat has been skimmed. Cook until thickened, season with 
salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet. Arrange meat on 
platters and pour over it the sauce. 

VEAL 
Roast Shoulder of Veal 

Have two medium-sized forequarters of veal boned at 
market. Trim off tainted or discolored skin or fat, and 
wipe with cloth wrung out of cold water. Sprinkle with 
salt, fill cavity with stuffing, make into rolls, and tie 
securely. Dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
lay on rack in dripping pans. Cover top with slices of fat 
salt pork and cook six hours in Aladdin oven, or four hours 
in range. Remove meat and keep hot while making gravy. 



98 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Pour off some of the clear fat, leaving one and one-half 
cups brown drippings, add one and one-half cups flour, 
stir until well browned, add two and one-half quarts water, 
stir until smooth and thickened. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper. The thick part of leg or loin may be boned 
and roasted in the same manner. 

Stuffing 

I quart dry bread crumbs 4 tablespoons chopped 
4 teaspoons salt onion 

3 tablespoons lemon juice I cup melted drippings 
i tablespoon mixed herbs I cup chopped salt pork 
Water to moisten if needed 

If bread is hard and dry, dip in cold water and wring dry 
in cloth before crumbling. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 

Braised Shoulder of Veal 

Bone, wipe, and tie securely ; then cook same as Braised 
Beef. 

Veal Fricassee 

Cut sixteen pounds veal from forequarter in pieces for 
serving. Wipe, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in salt pork fat. Put in kettle with 
three quarts boiling water and cook slowly three hours, 
or until meat is tender. Melt two cups pork fat, add two 
cups flour, and stir until well browned, then add three 
quarts of water in which veal was cooked, stirring con- 
stantly until smooth and thickened. Season with salt, 
pepper, onion juice, and lemon juice. Serve veal in center 
of platter, garnish with parsley, and surround with hot 
sauce. 



MEATS 99 

Veal Fricassee with Tomato 

Have sixteen pounds veal from the forequarter boned 
and cut in pieces for serving. Wipe, roll in egg and 
crumbs, and saute in pork or beef drippings. Put into 
kettle, add three quarts Tomato Sauce, cover closely, and 
cook slowly three or four hours. 

Veal Stew 

Have two shoulders of veal boned and cut in pieces for 
serving. Put in kettle, add two quarts boiling water, boil 
five minutes, then cook slowly in Aladdin oven or on range 
four hours, or until tender, adding salt when half done. 
Add milk to make three quarts liquid, thicken with one and 
one-fourth cups each flour and butter creamed together. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Arrange meat on 
pieces of toast and pour over them the hot sauce. 

Mock Birds 

Have from eight to ten pounds veal cut from leg or 
loin, in slices half an inch thick. Remove bone, fat, and 
skin, and pound until fiber is broken. Cut in pieces five 
inches long and three wide. Make a forcemeat as follows : 
Put veal trimmings and six slices fat salt pork through 
meat grinder ; add one-half their measure of fine cracker 
crumbs. Season highly with salt, pepper, lemon juice, 
paprika, onion juice, and poultry seasoning. Moisten with 
beaten egg and hot water. Cover each piece of veal nearly 
to the edge with this forcemeat, roll, and fasten with 
wooden toothpicks. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, 
and brown in pork drippings. Put in stew pan, add three 
quarts rich milk, and simmer twenty minutes, or until 
meat is tender, watching carefully that it does not burn. 



TOO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Remove birds to pieces of toast ; thicken milk with one cup 
flour creamed with one cup butter, season to taste, and 
pour it over birds and toast* ' 

Veal Loaf I 

10 pounds veal from 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

the forequarter 3 tablespoons salt 

i pounds fat salt pork I teaspoon pepper 

1 8 common crackers 2 tablespoons minced onion 

f cup thin cream 2 tablespoons sage 

Put veal and pork through meat grinder, roll crackers, 
and mix all ingredients thoroughly. Pack in brick-shaped 
pans, bake slowly three hours, basting with pork fat. 
Serve cold, cut in thin slices. 

Veal Loaf II 

10 pounds veal from i teaspoon pepper 

forequarter Salt to taste 

i pound bacon 3 or 4 onions 

Cook veal and onions in boiling water to barely cover, 
until tender; remove meat and let get cold. Left-over 
roast veal may be substituted for a part of the meat, in 
which case it would be ready for use without boiling. Put 
veal and bacon through meat grinder, season well, and 
moisten with enough stock to pack. Put in brick-shaped 
pans, set pans in larger ones containing water, and cook 
one hour or longer in a moderate oven. Let loaves get 
perfectly cold before removing from pans. 

Veal Hearts 

Wash twelve veal hearts, but do not let them soak. 
With a pair of scissors cut out veins and arteries. Fill 



MEAtS j /^ ; 

cavities with stuffing and sew edges of opening together. 
Saute the hearts in salt pork fat ; then put in kettle with 
two quarts boiling water. Cover closely and cook three 
hours in Aladdin oven, or in range with slow heat. Re- 
move hearts to platters. Thicken liquid in pan with one 
cup flour mixed till smooth with cold water ; season to taste 
with salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet. If sauce is too 
thick, add a little hot water. Serve in gravy boats. Serve 
with the hearts onions which have been boiled until very 
soft, then browned slightly in butter. 

Stuffing 

I quart small, dry pieces 4 tablespoons finely- 

of bread chopped onion 

4 teaspoons thyme 3 eggs well beaten 

I tablespoon salt I cup melted drippings 

I teaspoon marjoram -J teaspoon sage 

teaspoon pepper Water if needed 

Put dry bread into cold water, then wring dry in a cloth 
before crumbling. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 

PORK 
Pork Chops 

Wipe fifteen to twenty pounds chops, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, put in hot frying pans, and cook slowly until 
well browned on each side. 

Baked Pork Chops 

Wipe chops, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put on racks 
in dripping pans, and cook forty-five minutes, or until 
done, in a hot oven, turning when half cooked. 



FOR FIFTY 



Roast Pork 

Wipe fifteen to twenty pounds pork, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, put on rack in dripping pans, cook from three 
to four hours in range, or from five to six hours in Aladdin 
oven. If desired, gravy may be made as for other roasts. 

Barbecued Fresh Ham 

Wipe a large, fresh ham and score rind with sharp 
knife. Mix one tablespoon of mustard seed, half a tea- 
spoon each of celery seed and peppercorns with one cup 
sugar, one cup of vinegar, and two cups water ; let stand 
ten or fifteen minutes. Pour this pickle over ham, letting 
it stand several hours, or over night, and turning it several 
times. Put into dripping pan, fat side down, and cook in 
Aladdin oven six hours ; or put in covered roaster and 
cook in range four hours. Strain the pickle and keep it 
hot, basting occasionally with it until all is used. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Boiled or Baked Ham 

Soak over night two well-scrubbed nine-pound hams. 
Put into cold water with one tablespoon pickling spice, 
six slices carrot, six slices onion, two stalks celery, one 
teaspoon celery salt, three sprigs parsley, and one-half cup 
strong vinegar. Bring to boil and cook slowly five or 
more hours, or until tender. Do not overcook, or it will 
be difficult to carve nicely. If it is to be served cold, let it 
cool in the water in which it was cooked. 

For baked ham, remove skin and cover with following 
paste: one cup brown sugar, one cup soft, fine bread 
crumbs, one teaspoon mustard, and enough vinegar to hold 
the paste together. Stick ham with cloves and make in- 



MEATS IO3 

cisions over entire surface. Bake one hour, basting with 
one cup water mixed with one-fourth cup vinegar and 
two tablespoons brown sugar. Serve hot or cold. 

Broiled Ham 

Have eight pounds or more ham cut in thin slices. 
Soak one hour in lukewarm water, drain, wipe, and broil 
three minutes. 

Fried Ham 

Have ham cut in thicker slices than for broiling. Wipe, 
remove rind, and soak in lukewarm water for an hour. 
Drain, dry on cheesecloth. Put into hissing-hot frying 
pans and brown quickly, first on one side, then on the 
other. Do not cook too long, or the ham will be hard and 
dry. Serve with eggs fried in the ham fat, or with the 
following sauce poured over ham just before serving: 
Pour off any clear fat in frying pan, then add one and 
one-half cups vinegar, four tablespoons prepared mustard, 
four tablespoons sugar, and one teaspoon paprika, and 
bring to boiling point. 

Bacon 

Have bacon cut in very thin slices. Put in dripping 
pans, crowding slices closely together. Cook in hot oven 
until a golden brown, removing the pieces with skimmer 
or fork as soon as done. They will not be crisp until lifted 
out of the fat. Keep in warm place until ready to serve. 

Sausages 

Cut apart ten pounds link sausages and wipe with a wet 
cloth. Pierce each one in several places with a fork. Lay 
sausages close together on rack in dripping pans, and cook 



IO4 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

in hot oven until brown and crisp. If overcooked they will 
be dry and tasteless. Serve with Fried or Glazed Apples, 
or mashed potato. 

Frankfurters 

Wipe, cover with boiling water, and cook slowly until 
they rise to the surface of water. Drain, garnish with 
parsley, and serve with mustard pickles and rye bread. 

Frankfurters may also be sauted in salt pork drippings 
or butter, in frying pans. They should be thoroughly 
cooked, and brown and crisp on the surface. 

Scrapple 

Boil six or eight pounds fresh pork in four quarts water 
until so tender that it falls to pieces. Any of the cheaper 
cuts of meat or left-over roast may be used. Strain the 
liquor into fireless cooker kettle. Chop meat finely, remov- 
ing any bones or gristle, and return to liquor. Bring to 
boiling point and thicken with one quart corn meal. Boil 
five minutes, put in cooker, and cook several hours. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Turn into shallow oblong 
pans to mold. Cut in half-inch slices and cook on griddle 
until brown and crisp on both sides. 

Creamed Salt Pork 

I pound fat salt pork I cups flour 

3 quarts milk Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut pork in half-inch dice, fry until golden brown, 
then add flour, stir until smooth, and remove from fire. 
Heat milk in double boiler, add to above mixture, stirring 
constantly until smooth, and return to double boiler. Cook 
thirty minutes, stirring once or twice. Serve with baked 
potatoes. 



MEATS IO5 

Crisp Salt Pork 

Cut fat salt pork in very thin slices, soak thirty minutes 
in lukewarm water, drain. Dip each piece in flour so that 
each side is well coated, but shaking off any loose flour. 
Put :n not frying pans, and cook until crisp and golden 
brown on each side. Drain, put on hot platters, and serve 
with baked potatoes and cream sauce made as follows: 
Pour off clear fat, reserving one and one-fourth cups of 
the brown drippings in bottom of pans, to use in place 
of pork, and proceed as in Creamed Salt Pork. 



POULTRY AND GAME 
To Select Poultry and Game 

A chicken has soft feet, smooth skin, many pinfeathers, 
and soft cartilage at end of breastbone. A fowl has long 
hairs, thick yellow skin, hard scaly feet, and a breast- 
bone which is hard and bony to the very tip. Fowl are 
preferable for stewing, because of the larger amount of 
meat in proportion to bone. A good turkey also will 
have soft, pliable breastbone. Good geese have many pin- 
feathers. Small birds should be plump, with soft feet 
and pliable bills. 

To Dress and Clean Poultry 

Singe, to remove hairs, by holding bird over a flame 
from gas or burning paper, turning so as to expose all 
parts of surface to blaze. Take out pinfeathers, using a 
small, sharp-pointed knife. Cut off head, turn back skin, 
and cut off neck close to body. Cut through skin around 
leg one inch below leg joint, being careful not to cut 



106 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

tendons. Place leg at this cut over edge of table, and 
press downward to break bone, then take foot in right 
hand, holding bird in left, and pull off foot, drawing out 
with it the tendons. In old birds tendons must be drawn 
separately, using a skewer. 

Make incision in skin below breastbone large enough 
to admit hand. Remove entrails, gizzard, heart, and liver. 
Care must be taken not to break gall bladder, which lies 
under liver. Remove lungs and kidneys from hollows each 
side of backbone. Insert two fingers under skin close to 
neck, and draw out windpipe and crop. Remove oil bag. 
Wash bird by letting cold water run through it. Be sure 
that everything has been removed, and that bird is clean, 
then wipe dry inside and out. A disagreeable odor may 
sometimes be removed by washing thoroughly in soda 
water. 

To Stuff and Truss Poultry 

Put enough stuffing in neck end to fill skin moderately 
full ; put remainder in body. Take a few stitches wherever 
necessary to hold cut edges together. Fasten neck skin 
to back with small skewer or stitches. Cross drumsticks, 
tie securely with string, and fasten to tail. Place wings 
close to body, keeping them in place by inserting skewer 
through both wings and body. 

Roast Chicken or Turkey 

Allow twenty-five pounds dressed, whether chicken, 
fowl, or turkey. 

Dress, clean, stuff, and truss as directed. Rub entire 
surface with salt, and spread breast and legs with butter, 
using one and one- fourth cups. If crusted surface is 



POULTRY AND GAME ID/ 

desired, dredge with flour, or cream butter with one cup 
flour before spreading. Place birds on rack in dripping 
pans and cook required time, turning occasionally so as 
to brown all parts uniformly. Roast turkeys three hours 
or more, chickens from one and one-half to two hours. 
Old birds may be steamed until tender, then roasted. 
Baste often, using one and one-half cups butter melted 
in one quart water. Remove string and skewers before 
serving. 

Plain Stuffing 

4 quarts crumbs teaspoon pepper 

I tablespoon salt I tablespoon poultry 

i cup melted butter seasoning 

Water to moisten 

Crumble stale bread after cutting off any dark crusts. 
If dried bread is used, it should be in small pieces instead 
of crumbs. Put into cold water long enough to soften, 
wring dry in cloth, then crumble. Mix all ingredients 
thoroughly. If crumbly stuffing is wanted, use more 
butter and no water. 

Oyster Stuffing 

4 quarts crumbs i teaspoon pepper 

I tablespoon salt 6 tablespoons finely- 
i cup melted butter chopped celery 

4 tablespoons minced I or more quarts 
onion oysters 

Prepare crumbs as for Plain Stuffing; add butter, 
seasonings, and oysters which have been cleaned and 
drained. 



IO8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Gravy 

i-J cups drippings 3 quarts water or stock 

ij cups flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Pour off some of the clear fat, reserving enough of the 
rich brown drippings in bottom of pans for the gravy. 
Turn drippings into large saucepan, add flour, stir until 
smooth, add stock in which giblets, necks, and tips of 
wings have been cooked. Boil five minutes, season, and 
strain. For giblet gravy add to above the finely-chopped 
giblets. 

Broiled Chicken 

Wash chickens which have been dressed and split down 
back for broiling, and wipe dry. Place in dripping pans, 
skin side down, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot over 
with butter, and bake twenty minutes or longer in hot 
oven. Remove to broiler and finish cooking over coals 
or in gas broiler. 

Fried Chicken 

Clean young chickens, singe, and cut in pieces for serv- 
ing. Plunge in cold water, drain, but do not wipe. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Put 
salt pork or other drippings into frying pans to depth of 
one inch ; cook chicken in fat until tender and well browned. 
Remove to platters. Pour off drippings, reserving one 
cup; add one cup flour, stir well, add two and one-half 
quarts rich milk. Stir until smooth and well cooked, strain, 
add two tablespoons finely-chopped parsley, and serve in 
gravy boats. 

Smothered Chicken 

Clean and split young chickens suitable for frying. 
Place in dripping pans, skin side down, sprinkle with salt 



POULTRY AND GAME IOO, 

and pepper, cover with slices of bacon, dredge with flour. 
Bake in a hot oven forty-five minutes, or until tender, 
basting often. Serve with the following sauce : Pour off 
all but one cup of the drippings in pans, add one cup flour 
and two and one-half quarts thin cream, or half cream 
and half chicken stock. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and cook until thickened. 

Chicken Stew 

Cut up and wash twenty-five pounds dressed fowl. 
Put into kettle, cover with boiling water, and cook slowly 
until tender, adding salt when half cooked. Remove meat 
and thicken stock with flour mixed to smooth, thin paste 
with cold water, allowing one-half cup of flour to one 
quart of liquid. Season to taste with salt and pepper, pour 
over the meat, and serve with Dumplings or small Baking 
Powder Biscuit. 

Chicken a la Jardiniere 

20 pounds dressed fowl 2 quarts canned peas 
4 quarts boiling water 2 cups flour 
2 quarts small onions 2 cups butter or chicken fat 
2 quarts diced carrot Salt and pepper to taste 

Stew fowls in four quarts water until tender, adding salt 
and onions the last hour. Remove fowls from water and 
skim out the onions. When cold, skim fat from liquid 
and remove meat carefully from bones, keeping it as much 
as possible in large pieces. 

Melt two cups butter or chicken fat, stir in flour and 
four quarts of liquor in which fowls were cooked. It 
saves time to have this reheated before adding to sauce. 
Boil five minutes, stirring constantly ; season to taste and 
add meat. 



IIO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Boil carrots in salted water .until tender. Heat in double 
boiler canned peas which have been well drained, adding 
salt to taste. Saute the onions slightly in butter. 

Pile meat in center of platters, surrounding with 
vegetables arranged in mounds ; pour sauce over the whole 
and serve with Boiled Rice. 

Chicken Fricassee 

Wash and cut up twenty-five pounds dressed fowl. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and 
brown in pork drippings. Put into kettle, add boiling 
water to nearly cover, and cook slowly three hours or until 
tender. Add enough butter to frying pan in which meat 
was browned to make one and one-fourth cups in. all, 
add one and one-fourth cups flour, and three quarts water 
in which fowl was cooked. Boil five minutes, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, strain, and pour it over the 
meat. 

Creole Chicken 

Cut twenty-five pounds dressed fowl in pieces for serv- 
ing, wash, and dry. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in salt pork or bacon drippings. 
Put into kettle with two quarts water and two quarts 
strained tomato ; add two cups sliced onion, three mild red 
or green peppers, finely chopped, three cups diced celery, 
salt and pepper to taste. Simmer three hours, or until 
fowl is tender. Remove to platters and keep hot while 
making sauce. Add butter to frying pan in which fowl 
was browned to make one cup, add one and one- fourth 
cups flour and three quarts of liquor in which fowl was 
cooked. Boil five minutes, season, pour around meat, and 
serve with Boiled Macaroni. 



POULTRY AND GAME III 

Chicken Pie 

Prepare and cook twenty pounds dressed fowl or chicken 
as for Chicken Stew. Remove chicken, skim off fat, and 
thicken four quarts liquor with one and one-half cups flour 
mixed with cold water to pour easily. Place a small cup 
in center of each baking dish, remove some of the large 
bones from chicken, then arrange it in baking dishes, add 
gravy to come almost to top, cool. Make baking powder 
crust as for Meat Pie, cut in small rounds with biscuit 
cutter, place close together on top of chicken, bake thirty 
minutes, or until done, in hot oven. Serve extra gravy in 
boats. 

Roast Goose 

Singe, remove pinfeathers, wash and scrub geese in hot 
soapsuds or soda water. Remove internal organs as from 
fowl, wash in clear water, and wipe dry. Stuff, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, lay thin slices fat salt pork over 
breast. Place on rack in dripping pans, bake two or more 
hours, removing pork the last half hour. Garnish with 
watercress, serve with Giblet Sauce made as for Roast 
Chicken. 

Stuffing 

2 cups hot mashed potato J cup butter 

i cups soft, stale crumbs i egg 

J cup chopped salt pork i teaspoons salt 

J cup chopped onion i teaspoon sage 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. This quantity is sufficient 
for one goose. 

Roast Wild Duck 

Singe, draw, and remove pinfeathers. Wash inside and 
out and wipe dry. Stuff, place on rack in dripping pans, 



112 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover breast with thin 
slices salt pork. Bake from thirty to forty-five minutes 
in hot oven. Domestic ducks should be cooked about twice 
the time allowed for wild ones. Serve with Olive Sauce 
and currant jelly. 

Stuffing 

f cup boiled chopped i tablespoon melted butter 

onions f cup bread crumbs 

f cup chopped sour f teaspoon sage 

apples Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. This amount is enough 
for one duck. Instead of stuffing to be eaten, ducks may 
be stuffed with sour apples, pared, cored, and quartered; 
or two or three onions may be substituted for the apples. 

Stewed Rabbits 

Skin, clean, and cut up rabbits, cutting each joint and 
halving the backs. Saute sliced onions in salt pork drip- 
pings, allowing two onions to each rabbit. Skim out the 
onions and saute rabbit, which has been sprinkled with 
salt and pepper and dredged with flour. Pack meat in 
kettle, add onion, salt, and pepper, sweet herbs, and water 
to nearly cover. Cover closely and simmer two hours, or 
until tender. Drain liquor into another saucepan, keeping 
the meat hot over hot water or in Aladdin oven ; thicken 
with six tablespoons flour creamed with six tablespoons 
butter to each quart liquid. Season with salt, pepper, 
tomato catsup, and Worcestershire Sauce; add meat, 
simmer five minutes, and serve. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR USING LEFT-OVER MEATS 
AND FISH 

Remove all gristle, bones, and skin from both meat and 
fish before using in warmed over dishes. Roast beef or 
steak should be stewed until tender in a small amount 
of water before using for meat pies, ragouts, hash, cro- 
quettes, or other made dishes. Roast beef gravy may be 
poured boiling hot over cold sliced roast beef and served 
at once, but it should not cook in it, or meat will be tough- 
ened, unless it has first been cooked in water several hours. 

Water may be used in place of stock by adding beef 
extract or bouillon cubes to flavor. Kitchen bouquet may 
also be used. Colorless or tasteless sauces may be improved 
by adding kitchen bouquet. 

Salt codfish should soak over night, or for several hours, 
before using. 



Creamed Corned Beef 

8 or more quarts cold 2 small sliced onions 

corned beef cut in I teaspoon celery salt 

dice I teaspoon paprika 

4 quarts milk -J cup lemon juice 

2 cups butter 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 cups flour parsley 

Scald onion in milk, then skim out. Cook flour in butter, 
remove from fire, add hot milk, stirring constantly until 
smooth, then cook in double boiler thirty minutes. Add 
seasonings and meat, salt to taste, heat thoroughly, and 
sprinkle with parsley before sending to table. 



114 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Creamed Chicken 

8 or more quarts cold 4 quarts White Sauce II 
chicken or veal cut 2 teaspoons celery salt 
in dice -J teaspoon pepper 

Reheat chicken in sauce, adding celery salt and more 
salt and pepper if needed. Creamed Chicken maybe served 
on toast ; or in border of boiled rice or mashed potato ; or 
with crisp bacon ; or there may be added to sauce sliced 
mushrooms, or cleaned and drained oysters. 

Creamed Dried Beef 

2 or more pounds smoked 4 quarts White Sauce II 
dried beef Salt and pepper to taste 

Shred beef, cover with hot water, let stand ten minutes, 
drain. Add to sauce, heat thoroughly, and season to taste. 

Frizzled Dried Beef 

2 or more pounds smoked 2 cups butter 

dried beef 2 cups flour 

4 quarts hot milk or water Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt butter in large saucepan, add shredded dried beef 
which has been soaked ten minutes in hot water and 
drained. Cook slowly until butter is golden brown, then 
add flour and stir until well mixed with beef. Add hot 
water, stirring until smooth and thoroughly cooked. 
Season to taste. If milk is used, heat it in double boiler, 
and cook the mixture in boiler thirty minutes, as in making 
white sauce. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS 115 

R6chauff6 of Meat 
J cup drippings 4 quarts brown stock 

1 cup butter 8 quarts diced meat 
6 tablespoons minced i teaspoon pepper 

onion Salt to taste 

2 cups flour i tablespoon mixed herbs 

i quart dried mushrooms 

Cook onion in butter until slightly browned ; add flour 
and stir until browned. Add stock and stir until smooth 
and well cooked. Stir into this sauce the meat and the 
mushrooms, which have been soaked and chopped ; season 
and serve. 

Mutton & la Creole 
J cup chopped green 2\ quarts brown stock 

pepper \\ quarts strained tomato 

\ cup minced onion 6 quarts diced mutton 

ij cups butter 2 quarts cooked macaroni 

2 cups flour 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Salt to taste 

Cook pepper and onion in butter three minutes; add 
flour, stir until smooth, then add stock and tomato. Simmer 
a few minutes, stirring constantly; add seasonings and 
meat. Heat well and pour it over the cooked macaroni. 

Curry of Mutton 
8 quarts cold mutton or 2 cups butter 

veal 2 cups flour 

4 large chopped onions 3 tablespoons salt 
2 tablespoons curry i teaspoon pepper 

4 quarts stock or water 

Cut meat in one-inch squares. Fry onion in butter until 
soft, add flour mixed with seasonings, and stock. Boil 



Il6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

three minutes, put in meat, simmer fifteen minutes. Serve 
on platter with border of Boiled Rice or Turkish Pilaf . 

Mexican Ragout 

8 or more quarts cold 2 teaspoons celery salt 

beef, lamb, or veal f cup chopped onion 

diced i cup chopped green pepper 

3 quarts strained tomato 4 teaspoons Worcestershire 

1 quart stock Sauce 

2 cups butter I teaspoon paprika 
2 cups flour Salt to taste 

Cook onion and pepper slowly in butter until soft, stir- 
ring often; add flour, stir until smooth; add stock and 
tomato, cook until smooth and thickened. Put in meat, 
heat thoroughly, season to taste, and serve. 

Ragout of Chicken 

25 pounds chicken or fowl 4 bay leaves 

roasted or boiled 6 peppercorns 

J pound diced bacon 4 sprigs parsley 

^ cup bacon drippings 3 quarts Consomme or 

2 sliced carrots stock 

i cups flour 

Remove skin and bone from cold cooked chicken. The 
meat need not be in pieces of the same size, but should 
not be broken or crumbled. Cook together bacon and 
seasonings for fifteen minutes, being careful not to let 
them get very brown. Add flour, cook until light brown, 
then stir in the stock. Put in all the trimmings from 
chicken, and cook in Aladdin oven or on back of range 
one hour ; strain. Put in carefully the pieces of chicken ; 
simmer forty-five minutes. Garnish with triangles of 



LEFT-OVER MEATS 117 

toast. Cooked veal may be substituted for part of the 
chicken. 

Casserole of Rice and Meat 

2 quarts uncooked rice 3 tablespoons chopped 
4 quarts cold meat parsley 

chopped finely 3 tablespoons chopped 

4 or 5 teaspoons salt onion 

4 eggs - 2 teaspoons thyme 

I teaspoon celery salt I cup cracker or bread 

I teaspoon pepper crumbs 

1 teaspoon marjoram 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Cook rice as for Boiled Rice. Add seasonings, egg, and 
crumbs to meat. Mix well and moisten with stock or 
water enough to pack easily. 

Butter molds, line bottom and sides with rice, pack in 
the meat, cover closely with rice, steam forty minutes. 
Turn out on hot platters. Serve with Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce poured around casseroles, or put in sauce 
boats. 

Chicken or Veal Souffle* 

3 quarts scalded milk 3 cups soft, stale bread 
| cup butter crumbs 

cup flour 3 quarts cold, cooked, finely- 

2 tablespoons salt chopped chicken or veal 
I teaspoon pepper 18 eggs 

6 tablespoons chopped parsley 

Make sauce of the first five ingredients, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Add bread crumbs five minutes 
before removing from double boiler. Add chicken, yolks 
of eggs, and parsley. Fold in stiffly-beaten whites, put in 



Il8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

buttered baking dishes, bake thirty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Serve with Mushroom Sauce. 

Beef Souffle* 

Make same as Chicken Souffle, using beef stock instead 
of milk, and beef instead of chicken. Serve with Mush- 
room or Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce. 

Cottage Pie 

Cut remnants of beef roast or steak in small pieces, add 
boiling water and two or three sliced onions, and simmer 
until tender. Season highly with salt and pepper, and 
thicken liquid with flour mixed to a smooth, thin paste 
with cold water. Add gravy left from roasts. Put a layer 
of hot mashed potato in bottom of greased baking dishes, 
then a thick layer of prepared meat, and cover with a 
layer of potato. Bake in hot oven until potato is slightly 
browned. 

Meat Pie 

Cut cold beef roast or steak in one-inch cubes; there 
should be nine quarts or more. Put in kettle, add three 
sliced onions and four quarts boiling water. Simmer 
slowly two hours or until tender. Skim out meat and put 
into baking dishes. Mix one and one-half cups flour with 
cold water to pour, stir into hot liquid, bring to boiling 
point, and season to taste. Cover meat with a layer of cold 
sliced potatoes, or those which have been peeled, sliced, 
and parboiled until nearly done. Pour in gravy to moisten 
well, but not to come quite to top. Cover with the follow- 
ing crust, bake thirty minutes, or until done, in hot oven. 
Serve remainder of gravy in boats. Potatoes may be 
omitted and more meat used. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS IIQ 

Baking Powder Crust 

2\ quarts flour 5 teaspoons salt 

3! cups milk or milk 6 tablespoons baking 

and water powder 

ij cups shortening 

Sift dry ingredients together, and cut or rub in shorten- 
ing. Add liquid gradually, mixing with knife to as soft 
a dough as can be handled. Roll and cut as for Baking 
Powder Biscuit. Cut in small rounds, place close together 
on top of meat mixture, bake about twenty minutes in hot 
oven. Or roll out in a sheet that will just fit baking dish, 
cut a hole an inch in diameter in center, place on meat, 
and bake thirty minutes, or till done, in hot oven. Still 
another method is to mix dough to a stiff drop batter, and 
drop by spoonfuls on top of meat. 

Corned Beef Hash 

Mix thoroughly finely-chopped corned beef and chopped 
or mashed potato. Do not cut off all the fat, as it improves 
the flavor of hash. Moisten with stock in which meat was 
cooked, and season to taste with salt and pepper. The 
proportions of meat and potato may vary from equal parts 
of each to two-thirds potato, according to taste or materials 
at hand, but there should be from ten to twelve quarts of 
the mixture. 

Melt beef drippings to barely cover bottom of frying 
pans, put in hash, packing it in well, cook in oven until 
bottom and sides are brown and crisp. About an hour will 
be required with an oven full of pans, which require more 
or less changing around, in order that hash be uniformly 
browned. Fold like an omelet, or turn out on round 



120 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

platters with brown crust uppermost. Garnish with pars- 
ley. Serve with it Chili sauce, tomato catsup, or cucumber 
pickles. 

Vegetable Hash 

Prepare, cook, and serve as Corned Beef Hash, substi- 
tuting vegetables for all or a portion of the potato. 
Chopped beets, turnips, carrots, onion, and cabbage may 
be used, in any convenient proportion and combination, 
allowing one-third meat to two-thirds vegetables, if 
possible. 

Beef Hash 

Prepare, cook, and serve as Corned Beef Hash. Use 
any remnants of cooked lamb, veal, pork, or beef, first 
stewing roast or steak in a small amount of water until 
tender. Cook one cup each minced onion and mild green 
pepper in two cups pork, bacon, or beef drippings until 
soft, then add to hash. Season with salt, pepper, celery 
salt, or finely-minced celery, and half a cup minced parsley. 

Baked Mince with Eggs 

4 quarts cooked veal, lamb, i teaspoon pepper 

or chicken cup chopped onion 

2 quarts cooked ham 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 quarts soft bread crumbs parsley 

Salt to taste 

Remove skin, gristle, and bones from meat, and chop 
fine before measuring. Mix ingredients thoroughly, and 
moisten well with stock or water. Put in greased baking 
dishes, cover and cook thirty minutes in moderately hot 
oven. Break required number of eggs on top of mince, 



LEFT-OVER MEATS 121 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover again, and cook until 
whites are set. Send to table in baking dishes. 

Meat Cakes 

7 quarts finely-chopped i teaspoon paprika 

cooked meat 3 tablespoons mixed herbs 

3 quarts soft crumbs I cup drippings 

cup minced onion Stock or water to moisten 

Chop meat fine. Crumble soft, stale crumbs; or soak 
pieces of dried bread in cold water, then wring dry in 
cloth before crumbling. Cook onion in drippings until 
soft, and add to mince. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, 
moistening enough to shape easily. Ten or twelve beaten 
eggs may be added, in which case less stock will be needed. 
Season to taste with salt. Shape in cakes, and brown in 
pork or bacon fat to barely cover bottom of frying pans. 

The above mixture may be packed in well-greased bread 
pans and baked one hour in moderate oven. Turn out on 
platters, garnish with parsley, or parsley and sliced toma- 
toes, and serve with Mushroom or Tomato Sauce. 

Minced Meat on Toast 

6 or more quarts minced Salt and pepper to taste 

meat i| tablespoons Worcester- 

3 or more quarts brown shire Sauce or 

gravy cup tomato catsup 

Gravy left from beef, lamb, veal, or chicken roast may 
be used. Bring gravy to boiling point, add minced meat 
and seasonings. Toast half slices of bread until nicely 
browned and dried, dip in salted water, arrange on platters, 
pour meat over toast, and serve. 



122 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Ham Hash 

7 quarts chopped potato Salt to taste 

3^ quarts chopped ham f cup flour 

J teaspoon pepper 6 cups milk 

Chop ham and potato rather coarsely, mix well, and 
season. Put into baking dishes or frying pans, sprinkle 
with the flour, and add the milk. Cook in oven or on 
back of range until it is thoroughly heated and the milk 
is absorbed. 

Croquettes 

Croquettes may be made from meat, fish, vegetables, 
and cereals, alone or in any desired combination. Meat 
and fish are usually mixed with a thick sauce, but cold 
cooked cereal may be substituted for the sauce. 

With a sauce the croquette mixture must be spread in 
shallow pans and allowed to stand several hours or over 
night to stiffen. 

Croquettes made with cold cereal instead of sauce, or of 
vegetables mixed with egg, may be shaped at once. 

Croquettes should be soft and creamy inside, and 
shapely, crisp, and brown outside. If the mixture proves 
to be too soft to handle, a little fine cracker dust may be 
added. It is better to roll croquettes in bread rather than 
cracker crumbs. The bread should be dried without brown- 
ing, rolled and sifted. 

Croquettes are cooked in deep fat, and should brown 
in one minute. To test the fat, put in some white bread 
crumbs ; they should brown in one-half minute. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS 12$ 

Meat Croquettes with Sauce 

2j cups butter teaspoon pepper 

3 cups flour 2 teaspoons celery salt 

2.\ quarts stock Onion juice to taste 

3 teaspoons salt 5 quarts cooked meat 

Use any remnants of cooked meat. Trim off gristle, 
fat, and skin, and chop finely before measuring. Melt 
butter, add flour, and when smooth, stir in hot stock, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth and cooked. Season, add 
meat, and more seasonings if needed. Cool, shape, roll in 
crumbs, egg, and crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain on brown 
paper. Serve with or without sauce. This quantity makes 
about one hundred, allowing two rounded tablespoon fuls 
of mixture for each, or two hundred of the usual size. 

Meat Croquettes without Sauce 

5 quarts cold meat i cup finely-chopped 
2,\ quarts cold cereal celery 

\ cup chopped green I cup minced onion 

pepper Salt and pepper to taste 

Use any remnants of cold meat, and chop fine before 
measuring. Put meat, cereal, onion, and pepper through 
meat grinder. Chop celery very fine. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly, shape, roll in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again. 
Fry in deep fat, drain. Serve with Tomato, Brown, or 
Olive Sauce. This makes one hundred large croquettes, 
or two hundred of the usual size. 

Chicken or Veal Croquettes 

Make as for Meat Croquettes with or without Sauce, 
using all chicken or veal for the meat, substituting milk 



124 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

for the stock in sauce, and adding three tablespoons 
chopped parsley. If cereal is used, it should be light in 
color. 

Fish Croquettes 

Make as for Meat Croquettes with or without Sauce, 
using any cooked fresh fish in place of meat, substituting 
milk for stock in sauce, and adding three tablespoons 
lemon juice. If cereal is used, it should be farina, hominy, 
cream of wheat, or some other light-colored cereal. 

Creamed Finnan Haddie 
12 pounds finnan haddie 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Lay fish in large pan, cover with cold water, bring 
slowly to boiling point, simmer twenty-five minutes, drain. 
Separate carefully into flakes, add to white sauce, reheat, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, serve. Left-over fish may 
be used. 

Scalloped Fish 

3 quarts milk ij cups butter 
6 bay leaves i^ cups flour 

6 sprigs parsley -J teaspoon pepper 

6 slices onion 4 quarts cold flaked fish 

4 teaspoons salt 3 cups stale crumbs 

Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, first re- 
moving the parsley, bay leaves, and onion which have been 
scalded in milk. Carefully flake, or cut into inch pieces, 
cold cod, haddock, halibut, salmon, or other fish. Arrange 
half the fish in bottom of buttered baking dishes, being 
careful not to break flakes ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
pour over half the sauce; repeat. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, bake in hot oven fifteen minutes, or until crumbs 



LEFT-OVER FISH 125 

are brown. Canned salmon may be used, eight pint cans 
being equivalent to four quarts of fresh fish. 

Creamed Salt Codfish 

4 quarts milk Salt to taste 

2 cups butter 3 pounds codfish 

2 cups flour i teaspoon pepper 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Put codfish into four 
quarts cold water, bring slowly to simmering point, simmer 
forty-five minutes, or until soft ; drain. Lay fish on board, 
and with a fork shred very fine, add to sauce, and season 
to taste. 

Serve alone, with baked potatoes, or in a border of 
mashed potatoes. 

Fish Hash 

5 quarts cold boiled potato i teaspoon pepper 

5 quarts cold fish Salt pork or bacon 
Salt to taste drippings 

Chop potatoes very fine, mix with minced fish and salt 
and pepper. Melt fat in pans, add fish mixture, stirring 
until well moistened, then cook slowly until well browned. 
Fold like omelet, serve with crisp bacon. 

Salmon Loaf 

6 pint cans salmon 3 cups or more milk or 
4j quarts dried bread water 

in small pieces Salt and pepper to taste 

12 eggs 

Soften bread in milk. Pick out skin and bones from 
salmon, but leave liquor. Mix all ingredients together 



126 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

very thoroughly, pack in brick-shaped pans, set in larger 
pans containing water, bake from forty-five to sixty 
minutes. Turn out on platters, garnish with parsley. 
Serve with Egg or Pickle Sauce. 

Salmon Surprise 

i quarts rice Salt 

6 pint cans salmon Pepper 

Cook rice as given under Table for Cookery of Cereals. 
Remove bones and skin from canned or fresh boiled 
salmon. Line bread tins with the warm steamed rice, fill 
centers with salmon, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover 
with rice. Steam one hour, remove to platters, serve with 
Egg Sauce. This quantity is sufficient to fill six tins nine 
and one-half inches long by four and one- fourth wide. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH 

White Sauce I 

cup butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter in large sauce- 
pan, add flour, stir until smooth, and remove from fire. 
Add hot milk, stirring constantly until smooth ; return to 
double boiler and cook thirty minutes, beating hard two 
or three times. If not smooth, beat with Dover egg beater. 
Add salt just before serving. By following these direc- 
tions there is no possible danger of scorching milk or 
sauce. This sauce is used for scalloped dishes. 

White Sauce II 

I cup butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

i cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Make same as White Sauce I. This sauce is used for 
creamed dishes. 

White Sauce III 

2j cups butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

2\ cups flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Make same as White Sauce I. This sauce is used for 
croquettes. 

127 



128 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Drawn Butter Sauce 
i^ cups butter 2 quarts hot water 

1 cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

teaspoon pepper 

Melt one cup butter, stir in flour mixed with seasonings, 
and when smooth add boiling water, stirring constantly 
until it boils. Boil five minutes, stir in remaining butter. 
Serve with boiled or baked fish, or boiled parsnips. 

Egg Sauce 

To Drawn Butter Sauce add ten hard-cooked eggs, 
sliced or chopped. Serve with baked or boiled fish. 

Pickle Sauce 

To Drawn Butter Sauce add one teaspoon paprika and 
two cups sour cucumber pickles, chopped or sliced, and 
drained. Serve with boiled or baked fish, or boiled mutton. 

Brown Sauce 
ij cups butter 6 sprigs parsley 

2 small sliced onions ij cups flour 

8 slices carrot 2 quarts brown stock 

4 bay leaves 2 teaspoons salt 

teaspoon pepper 

Cook first five ingredients together until browned but 
not burned, add flour. Stir until browned and add hot 
stock, stirring constantly until it boils. Boil three minutes, 
strain, and season. If a plainer sauce is desired, omit 
carrot, parsley, and bay leaves. 

Mushroom Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add two cans mushrooms, drained, 
rinsed, and sliced. Or use dried mushrooms, soaked and 
sliced. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH I2O, 

Piquante Sauce 

Make Brown Sauce. Before serving, add one-half cup 
vinegar, one teaspoon paprika, and one-half cup each 
chopped sour cucumber pickles and capers, and heat to 
boiling point. 

Spanish Sauce 

scant cup bacon fat ij quarts stock 

cup chopped onion ^ teaspoon pepper 

cup chopped pepper 2 teaspoons salt 
cup flour 2 teaspoons kitchen 

pint strained tomato bouquet 

I can chopped mushrooms 

Cook onion and pepper slowly in bacon fat until soft, 
add flour, and cook two minutes. Add stock and tomato, 
stirring until it boils. Boil five minutes, season, and serve. 
The mushrooms may be omitted. Serve with roast beef, 
beefsteak, lamb chops, or veal roast. 

Plain Tomato Sauce 

Make same as White Sauce I or White Sauce II, sub- 
stituting strained tomato for milk. 

Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce 
2 quarts strained tomato 4 sprigs parsley 
i cup butter 8 cloves 

4 slices onion \ teaspoon pepper 

4 slices carrot 2 teaspoons salt 

4 bay leaves I cup flour 

Melt butter ; when it bubbles, put in onion, carrot, pars- 
ley, bay leaves, and cloves, cook until slightly browned; 
remove seasonings. Add flour, stir until smooth, then add 
hot strained tomato, bring to boiling point, and serve. 



130 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Bechamel Sauce 

i quart white stock 2 medium-sized onions 

i quart scalded milk I teaspoon thyme 

i cup butter 6 bay leaves 

1 cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

teaspoon pepper 

Cook onion, thyme, and bay leaves slowly in butter ten 
minutes. Stir in flour, and when smooth add hot milk 
and stock, stirring constantly until thickened and boiled ; 
strain. The seasonings may be cooked in stock instead of 
in butter, but be sure there is a full quart of liquid after 
straining. The sauce itself need not be strained, in that 
case. A yellow sauce may be made by stirring the sauce 
into the beaten yolks of eight eggs. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

Make one and one-half quarts Brown Gravy. Add two 
half -pint jars currant jelly, stirring until dissolved. Serve 
with roast lamb. 

Philadelphia Relish 

4 quarts chopped cabbage i teaspoons mustard 
6 mild green peppers seed 

6 mild red peppers 3 teaspoons salt 

i quarts chopped celery 3 cups brown sugar 

2 tablespoons celery seed 2 cups vinegar 

Chop fine the first four ingredients, mix, and set in 
cool place until ready to serve, then add seasonings, 
vinegar, and sugar. Serve with roast meat or fried oysters. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH 13! 

Mattre d'Hdtel Butter 

i-J cups butter 3 tablespoons finely- 

i tablespoon salt chopped parsley 

| teaspoon pepper J cup lemon juice 

Cream butter, add salt, pepper, and parsley, and lemon 
juice very slowly. 

Tartare Sauce 

1 quart Mayonnaise i cup chopped pickles 

dressing 2 tablespoons chopped onion 

J cup capers 2 tablespoons chopped 

| cup stoned olives parsley 

Chop very fine the capers, olives, pickles, onion, and 
parsley, and add to Mayonnaise j ust before serving. Serve 
with fried cod, haddock, halibut, or smelts. 

Horseradish Sauce 

To one and one-half cups well-drained, prepared horse- 
radish add two cups thick cream beaten until quite creamy, 
but not stiff. Season with paprika and salt. Serve with 
cold sliced tongue or roast beef. 

Cucumber Sauce 

4 large cucumbers \ teaspoon paprika 

2 teaspoons salt \ cup vinegar 

\ teaspoon pepper i cup thick cream 

Peel cucumbers, of which there should be more than 
four, if they are not quite large. Cut in quarters length- 
wise and remove any large seeds. Chop fine and drain, 
or squeeze dry through cheesecloth. Add seasonings, 



132 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

vinegar, and cream which should be beaten until quite 
stiff. Serve with broiled fish. 

Mustard Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter i cup sugar 

J cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons mustard I quart vinegar 

1 tablespoon turmeric J teaspoon pepper 

If vinegar is very strong, use one cup water and three 
cups vinegar. Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar slowly, 
stirring until perfectly smooth. Boil until thick and 
smooth, stirring constantly ; add butter and remove from 
fire. Serve cold with ham or corned beef. 

Mint Sauce I 

2 bunches or 2 cups f cup sugar 

chopped mint 3 cups vinegar 

If vinegar is very strong, dilute with water. Wash mint 
thoroughly, remove stems and old leaves, drain, and chop. 
Mix with sugar, let stand from thirty to sixty minutes. 
Add vinegar and let stand one or more hours. 

Mint Sauce II 

6 half-pint jars currant 2 tablespoons finely- 
or barberry jelly chopped mint leaves 

Separate jelly in pieces and sprinkle chopped mint over 
top. Serve with roast lamb. 



VEGETABLES 

ALL vegetables should be thoroughly washed in cold 
water ; and roots and vegetables should be scrubbed with 
a small brush kept for that purpose. Wilted vegetables 
may be somewhat freshened by soaking an hour or so in 
cold water. 

Put all fresh vegetables into boiling water to cook, and 
drain as soon as tender. Soak dried vegetables several 
hours in cold water. Cook spinach, corn, and similar 
vegetables in the water in which they are soaked; but 
drain beans and add fresh water before cooking. In either 
case the water should be brought slowly to boiling point, 
and vegetables simmered until done. 

Canned beans, peas, and similar vegetables should be 
turned carefully into a colander and rinsed thoroughly in 
cold water, then left an hour or so to aerate before using. 

For the sake of greater accuracy, quantities are often 
given by weight instead of measure. 

Use one and one-half tablespoons salt to one gallon 
water for boiling fresh vegetables, adding it when vege- 
tables are about half done. 

Allow from twenty to thirty minutes for vegetables to 
come to boiling point after boiling water is added. The 
time given below is that required after boiling point is 
reached. It is impossible to give the exact time for 
cooking, as so much depends upon the age and size of 
vegetables. 

Buttered crumbs for scalloped dishes should always be 
soft, stale crumbs, never dried ones. If light in color, the 



134 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

crusts may be used by grating them. Crumble the bread 
in the fingers, or rub together two pieces of bread. Use 
one-half cup butter to one quart crumbs. 

TIME-TABLE FOR BOILING VEGETABLES 

Vegetables Hows Minutes 

Asparagus 30 to 50 

Beets, young I to 2 

Beets, old 3 to 5 

Cabbage f to i 

Carrots i to 2 

Cauliflower 30 to 60 

Dandelions I to 2 

Onions 60 to 90 

Parsnips 45 to 90 

Peas 20 to 40 

Potatoes 30 

Squash, summer 30 to 60 

Spinach and other greens 20 to 60 

Sweet potatoes 30 to 60 

String beans I to 2,\ 

Shell beans I to 2 

Turnips, white 40 to 60 

Turnips, yellow ij to 2 

Boiled Asparagus 

8 or more large bunches 3 teaspoons salt 

asparagus i or more cups butter 

\ teaspoon pepper 

Cut off tough part of stalks, wash, tie again in bunches, 
place upright in deep kettle of boiling salted water to 



VEGETABLES 135 

nearly cover. Cook twenty to thirty minutes, drain. 
Arrange in dishes, and moisten with melted butter which 
has been mixed with salt and pepper. Or toast half slices 
of bread until nicely browned and well dried ; moisten with 
asparagus water, and place on platters. Arrange aspar- 
agus on toast and pour over it the melted butter. 



Creamed Asparagus 
6 large bunches asparagus 4 quarts White Sauce II 

Cut off tough ends of stalks, wash, and cut in inch pieces. 
Boil in salted water twenty minutes, or until tender, add- 
ing tips when half done. Drain, add to sauce, and serve 
on toast prepared as for Boiled Asparagus. This is a nice 
luncheon dish, served with or without cold meat, broiled 
ham, or crisp bacon. 

Boston Baked Beans 

3 quarts pea beans J cup brown sugar 

4 tablespoons salt I tablespoon mustard 
i cup molasses i teaspoon pepper 

J cup vinegar 2 pounds fat salt pork 

Pick over beans, cover with cold water, and soak over 
night. Drain, cover with cold water, add one teaspoon 
soda, bring to boiling point, and parboil fifteen minutes, 
or until skins burst when exposed to air ; drain. 

Scrape and scald pork rind, cut pork in two pieces, and 
cut through rind every half inch to the depth of one inch. 

Mix salt, sugar, mustard, and pepper, and dilute with 
molasses and vinegar. Put an equal quantity of beans 
and seasonings into each of two bean pots, bury pork in 



136 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

beans, fill pots with boiling water, cover, and cook slowly 
six or eight hours, or more, adding more water if needed. 
The Aladdin oven is excellent for this purpose. 



Stewed Lima Beans 

Soak two and one-half or three quarts dried Lima 
beans in cold water over night, drain. Add five quarts 
cold water, bring to boiling point, and cook slowly two 
hours, or until done, adding salt to taste when half done. 
The beans should be soft but not broken, and the liquid 
quite creamy. More water should be added if they get 
dry. Season with one cup butter, one-half teaspoon 
pepper, and salt to taste. Pea beans may be prepared in 
the same manner. 

Lima Beans with Cream 

Soak three quarts Lima beans in cold water over night 
or for several hours, drain. Cook slowly in plenty of boil- 
ing water until soft but not broken, adding salt when half 
done. Drain, add one quart thin cream or White Sauce I, 
salt and pepper to taste, and let simmer very slowly fifteen 
or twenty minutes on back of range, or over hot water. 



Lima Beans with Tomato 

Soak and cook as for Lima Beans with Cream. Be sure 
that they keep their shape perfectly. Melt one cup butter, 
add drained beans, shaking and stirring carefully until 
butter is absorbed. Add two quarts Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce, mix carefully, then put in oven until well 
heated through. 



VEGETABLES 137 

Flageolets 

Flageolets are similar in shape to Lima beans, but 
greenish in color and much smaller. Cook the same as 
Stewed Lima Beans. If they are to be used for salad, cook 
in a larger quantity of water, and drain as soon as soft. 
They should be whole and glossy. 

Spanish Beans 

3 quarts red kidney beans i teaspoon soda 

1 pound fat salt pork 6 chopped onions 

2 quarts strained tomato 4 to 6 chopped peppers 
5 tablespoons salt i teaspoon paprika 

Soak beans over night, drain, cover with water, add 
soda, boil fifteen minutes, drain. Add diced pork, stewed 
and strained tomato, seasonings, and water to barely cover. 
Simmer gently from eight to ten hours. 

Buttered String Beans 

Remove strings from eight pounds string beans, cut in 
inch pieces, and wash. Cook in boiling salted water from 
one to two and one-half hours, drain. Season with one 
cup butter, one-half teaspoon pepper, and more salt if 
needed. Be careful not to break beans. 

Canned String Beans 

2 No. 10 cans beans i tablespoon salt 

i cup butter | teaspoon pe'pper 

Turn beans carefully into colander and rinse thoroughly 
with cold water; put in double boiler, add melted butter 
mixed with seasonings, and heat for one hour. 



138 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

String Beans a la Lyonnaise 

2 gallon cans or 4 teaspoons salt 

8 small cans beans / teaspoon pepper 

3 small onions 3 tablespoons chopped 
2 cups butter parsley 

4 cup lemon juice 

Saute sliced onions in one cup butter until soft and 
yellow. Turn beans carefully into colander and rinse 
with cold water. Turn carefully into double boiler, add 
onion mixture and seasonings, and heat for one hour. 
Cream the other cup of butter, add parsley and lemon 
juice, and add to beans a few minutes before serving. 

Boiled Beets 

15 pounds (i peck) beets f cup sugar 
I cup butter I cup vinegar 

teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons salt 

Scrub beets well, but do not cut skin or cut stems close 
to beet, as much of the sweetness and color escape with 
the juices. Cook in boiling water until soft; about one 
hour for young beets, three to five hours for old ones. 
If gas is used for cooking, it is cheaper to use canned beets. 
Six No. 3 cans will be required. When tender, put into 
cold water and rub off skins. Slice, put in double boiler, 
add seasonings, and reheat. 

Savory Beets 

15 pounds (i peck) beets f cup sugar 
ij cups butter I cup strong vinegar 

i cups flour 2 tablespoons salt 

6 cups beet water -J teaspoon pepper 

Prepare and cook as for Boiled Beets and cut in half- 
inch cubes. Cream together butter, flour, sugar, salt, and 



VEGETABLES 139 

pepper, add six cups boiling water in which beets were 
cooked, stirring constantly until smooth and well cooked. 
Reheat beets in this sauce, using double boiler. The sauce 
is quite thick and merely coats them. 

Brussels Sprouts 

Pick over six quarts Brussels sprouts, removing wilted 
leaves, and soak in cold water thirty minutes or longer. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender, drain, and add 
to three quarts White Sauce II. 

Mattre d'Hotel Cabbage 

12 to 15 pounds cabbage i teaspoon paprika 
i$ cups butter 4 tablespoons chopped 

i tablespoon salt parsley 

5 tablespoons lemon juice 

Take off outside leaves, cut in quarters, and remove 
tough stalk. Soak in cold water for an hour or so, then 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain, chop 
rather coarsely, and reheat with the following sauce: 
Cream butter, add salt and pepper, then lemon juice very 
slowly. Vinegar may be used in place of lemon juice. 
Sprinkle parsley over cabbage after it is put in serving 
dishes. 

Scalloped Cabbage 

10 pounds cabbage 3 quarts White Sauce I 

Cut in quarters, remove outside leaves and stalk, soak 
in cold water thirty minutes or more. Cook in boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain, cut each quarter in 
several pieces, put into six baking dishes, add the white 
sauce, lifting cabbage with fork, that sauce may penetrate. 



I4O RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cover with buttered crumbs, bake fifteen minutes, or until 
brown. Grated cheese may be added if desired. 

Cold Slaw 

8 pounds trimmed cabbage 2 tablespoons salt 
2 cups strong vinegar teaspoon pepper 

2 cups sugar I teaspoon paprika 

Cut off stalk and outside leaves and weigh. Soak in 
cold water for an hour or so ; drain very dry, chop fine. 
Mix ingredients just before serving. Only crisp, tender 
cabbage should be used for slaw. 

Cream Slaw 

Prepare as for Cold Slaw, let stand in refrigerator 
fifteen minutes. Drain off most of vinegar and fold in 
one quart of thick cream which has been beaten until stiff. 

Creamed Carrots and Turnips 

6J pounds carrots 3 quarts White Sauce II 

6J pounds white turnips teaspoon pepper 

Cut carrots and turnips in half -inch cubes and cook 
separately in salted water until soft. Drain and add to 
white sauce. 

Boiled Carrots 

12^ pounds (i peck) teaspoon pepper 

young carrots i cup butter or 

2 tablespoons salt ij pints thin cream 

Wash, scrape, and cut carrots in one- fourth inch slices. 
Boil thirty minutes, or until soft, in a small amount of 
salted water. Let water nearly all evaporate instead of 



VEGETABLES 14! 

draining it off, if possible to do so without burning the 
carrots. Add butter, pepper, and salt to taste. Old carrots 
may be cooked in the same manner, but lack the sweetness 
and delicacy of flavor of new ones. 

German Carrots 

12^ pounds carrots i cup butter 

2$ tablespoons salt I cup flour 

1 teaspoon pepper 6 tablespoons chopped 
J cup sugar parsley 

| teaspoon grated nutmeg 

Wash, scrape or peel, and cut carrots in half-inch cubes. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Cream butter 
and flour together, add two quarts boiling water in which 
carrots were cooked, stirring constantly. Boil five minutes, 
add seasonings and carrots; let simmer fifteen minutes, 
and serve, sprinkled with parsley. 

B 6 cham el Carrots 

12$ pounds carrots cut in i cup butter 

one- fourth inch slices ij cups flour 

3 peppers 6 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts stock 2 tablespoons salt or 
I quart or less cream or more 

milk J teaspoon pepper 

Wash carrots, scrape or pare very thin, and slice. Put 
into kettle with stock and seeded peppers, and simmer 
until soft, then remove peppers. Cream together butter, 
flour, and seasonings, and stir into carrot mixture, diluting 
with rich milk or thin cream to make consistency of 
White Sauce II. Bring to boiling point and serve. 



142 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Buttered Cauliflower 

6 large or 9 medium- ; i J or 2 cups butter 
sized cauliflowers J teaspoon pepper 

Remove leaves and stalks, separate into flowerets, and 
soak in cold salt water thirty minutes or more. Cook in 
salted water until tender but not broken. Drain and turn 
into serving dishes. Add pepper to melted butter and 
pour it over the cauliflower. 

Creamed Cauliflower 

Prepare and cook as for Buttered Cauliflower. Drain 
and add to three quarts White Sauce II. Grated cheese 
may be added. 

Creamed Celery 
8 quarts celery in pieces 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Wash celery, cut in inch pieces, and cook in salted water 
until tender. Drain and add to white sauce. The coarse 
outside stalks may be utilized in this way. 

Cucumbers 

Wash and pare twelve or more large cucumbers. The 
paring should be thick enough to remove all the green 
coloring. Cut in thin slices and keep in cold water until 
ready to serve. Drain and serve with vinegar, salt, and 
pepper. 

Corn on the Cob 

Remove husks and silky fibers. Boil ten minutes in 
water to cover, remove to platters, cover with napkins. 
Serve at once with salt and butter. 



VEGETABLES 143 

Corn Pudding 

6 No. 2 cans corn 12 eggs beaten slightly 

6 tablespoons sugar 3 quarts stale crumbs 

2 tablespoons salt CU P butter 

3 quarts milk I teaspoon pepper 

Stale or dry bread should be used, but it must be broken 
or crumbled, not ground or rolled. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly. Put into six buttered baking dishes, set pans 
in hot water, or put asbestos mats underneath. Bake in 
slow oven one hour, or until a knife comes out clean. 
Serve at once. 

Corn Oysters 

2,\ quarts corn pulp or 2.\ cups flour 

canned corn if tablespoons salt 

10 well-beaten eggs teaspoon pepper 

Mix ingredients thoroughly and cook on hot, well- 
greased griddle, using bacon or pork fat. This makes one 
hundred or more, allowing a rounded tablespoonful of 
the mixture to each oyster. Very nice served with crisp 
bacon. 

Scalloped Corn 

7 No. 2 cans corn 2| tablespoons salt 
i cup butter J teaspoon pepper 

3 cups milk 2 quarts stale crumbs 

Use stale, not dried, crumbs, and mix them with melted 
butter. Add milk and seasonings to corn. Put corn into 
six baking dishes, cover with buttered crumbs, bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes, or until crumbs are golden 
brown. 



144 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Eggplant 

Pare six large eggplants and cut in one-third inc'i 
slices, sprinkle with salt, let stand an hour or more, and 
press out the juice. Drain, dip in crumbs, egg, and crumbs 
again, and saute in hot fat. 



Greens 

5 or 6 pecks greens 2 or more tablespoons salt 

i cup butter teaspoon pepper 

Spinach, beet tops, dandelions, Swiss chard, or cowslips 
may be used. If beet greens are used, the little beets may 
be left on or cooked separately and used as garnish. Wash 
greens very thoroughly, picking off wilted leaves and re- 
moving roots. Cook in boiling salted water until tender, 
drain, chop, and reheat with seasonings in double boiler. 
Garnish with hard-cooked eggs and serve with vinegar. 



Boiled Onions 

i pecks onions \ teaspoon pepper 

2 cups butter Salt to taste 

Peel onions, keeping them under water as much as 
possible while doing so. Put in kettle with plenty of boil- 
ing water and one-half teaspoon soda, boil two minutes, 
drain. Add boiling water to cover, boil five minutes, 
drain. Add more water and two tablespoons salt, boil 
until perfectly tender. It is better that they should lose 
their shape than that they should be underdone. Drain, 
add seasonings, heat thoroughly, and serve. 



VEGETABLES 145 

Creamed Onions 

I peck onions 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions, drain, and add to 
white sauce. 

Scalloped Onions 

I peck onions 3 quarts White Sauce I 

teaspoon pepper i quart buttered crumbs 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions. If onions are large, 
cut them in quarters after boiling. Put into six buttered 
baking dishes, adding white sauce, pepper, and more salt 
if needed, cover with crumbs, and bake until crumbs are 
slightly browned. 

Saute'd Onions 

I peck onions or more i teaspoon pepper 
i^ cups butter Salt if needed 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions, but be careful that 
they keep their shape. Melt one-half cup butter in frying 
pan, turn in one-third of the onions, sprinkle with pepper, 
and salt if needed, cook until slightly browned, then put 
in serving dishes. Repeat until all the onions are browned. 
Fewer onions may be browned at a time if necessary. 

Parsnips with Drawn Butter Sauce 

14 pounds parsnips 3 quarts water 

i cups butter 3 teaspoons salt 

i cups flour | teaspoon pepper 

Wash and scrape parsnips, and cut in one-half inch 
slices lengthwise, then cut slices crosswise in three-inch 
lengths, or thereabouts. Cook in salted water until tender, 



146 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

but not broken. If preferred, the parsnips may be cut 
after boiling. Melt butter, add flour, stir until smooth, 
then add boiling water.. Boil five minutes, season, and 
pour over parsnips. 

Saut6d Parsnips 

Wash and scrape parsnips, cook in salted water, and 
drain. They should be slightly underdone. Cut in slices 
lengthwise and brown in pork fat or butter. 

Canned Peas 

2 No. 10 cans peas 2 tablespoons salt 

I cup butter 4 tablespoons sugar 

$ teaspoon pepper 

Turn peas carefully into colander, rinse well with cold 
water, and put into double boiler. Melt butter and mix 
well with seasonings, pour over peas. Cook one hour or 
until very hot. Do not stir peas, or they will be crushed 
and unattractive in appearance ; shake kettle two or three 
times instead. 

Stuffed Peppers 

25 large green peppers 2.\ quarts minced veal, 
2^ quarts crumbs chicken, or chopped 

\ cup chopped onion nuts 

Salt to taste 

Choose mild peppers of uniform size, cut in two length- 
wise, remove seeds and tough white portions. Wash and 
cook in boiling water five minutes. Cook onion in butter 
until soft. Crumble stale, not dried, bread, and mix with 
butter and onion. Add chopped meat or nuts, salt to taste, 



VEGETABLES 147 

and stock to moisten so that it will pack. Fill peppers 
rounding full, sprinkle with buttered crumbs, place in drip- 
ping pans with water or stock to cover bottom of pans. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, or until done. 
Serve with Plain Tomato or Brown Sauce. 



Succotash 

4 quarts canned or boiled 4 quarts green beans or 

sweet corn 2 quarts dried Lima beans 

3 tablespoons salt \ teaspoon pepper 

I cup butter 

Cut hot or cold boiled sweet corn from cob, or use 
canned corn. If dried beans are used, soak them over 
night, drain, and cook slowly in water to barely cover 
until soft. The beans should be soft and whole, and the 
water cooked down to a creamy consistency. If there is 
a great deal of liquid, drain off some of it. Mix beans 
and corn, add seasonings, and let simmer five minutes 
before serving. 

Winter Squash 

30 or more pounds squash Salt to taste 
i cup butter Sugar if needed 

Cut squash in halves, remove seeds and stringy portions, 
place in dripping pans, cover, and bake from two to two 
and one-half hours in moderate oven. Remove from shell 
with iron spoon, mash, and season to taste. 

Squash may be cut in pieces, freed from seeds and 
stringy parts, pared, and steamed until soft, then mashed 
and seasoned as above. 



148 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

6 quarts canned tomatoes 3 quarts stale crumbs 

2 cups melted butter i cup sugar 

3 tablespoons salt i teaspoon pepper 

The bread should not be dried, but any stale crumbs or 
crusts that can be grated or crumbled with fingers may 
be used ; mix with melted butter. Put one cup prepared 
crumbs in bottom of each of six baking dishes. Mix 
seasonings with tomato, then turn into dishes. Cover with 
remaining crumbs. Bake about an hour in moderate oven, 
being careful not to let crumbs burn. 

Scalloped Turnip 
13 J pounds white turnip 3 quarts White Sauce I 

Wash turnips, remove a thick paring, cut in half-inch 
cubes, and cook in salted water until soft. Drain, put into 
six baking dishes, pour over the white sauce, cover with 
buttered crumbs, using one quart in all. Bake long enough 
to brown crumbs. 

Turnips New York Style 

12 to 14 pounds yellow 3 cups butter melted 

turnip i teaspoon pepper 

6 tablespoons finely- Salt if needed 
chopped parsley 

Pare turnips, removing a thick paring, cut in half-inch 
cubes, and boil one and one-half hours, or until soft. 
Drain, put into serving dishes, pour over butter mixed 
with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with parsley. 



VEGETABLES 149 

Curried Vegetables 
2 quarts diced potatoes i| cups butter 
2 quarts diced carrots i cups flour 
2 quarts diced turnips 2 diced onions 
2 small cans peas I teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons minced i^ tablespoons salt 
parsley i tablespoons curry 

3 quarts milk 

Cook carrots, white turnips, and potatoes separately in 
salted water until soft. 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft and yellow, add 
flour mixed with seasonings, stir until smooth, add hot 
milk, stirring constantly until smooth. Cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes. Add vegetables, heat well, turn into 
serving dishes, and sprinkle with parsley. 

Macedoine of Vegetables 

2 quarts diced carrots I quart string beans 

I quart diced white turnips 2 quarts diced potatoes 
I quart green peas 3 quarts Bechamel or 

I quart flageolet beans White Sauce II 

Cut carrots, turnips, and potatoes in half-inch dice, 
string beans in half -inch pieces. The vegetables should 
be cooked separately in boiling water and drained before 
adding to sauce. Add more seasonings if needed. Mix 
lightly and carefully to prevent breaking vegetables. 

Creamed Potatoes 
6 or 8 quarts cold diced 3 or 4 quarts White 

potatoes Sauce II 

J teaspoon pepper Chopped parsley 

Cut cold boiled or baked potatoes in half -inch cubes. 
Reheat in white sauce, add pepper, and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley if desired. 



I5O RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

8 quarts diced potatoes 3 tablespoons salt 

J cup chopped onion teaspoon pepper 

2j cups bacon fat or 8 tablespoons chopped 
butter parsley 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in half-inch cubes or in slices. 
Cook onion slowly in bacon fat or butter until soft, but 
not brown. Add potatoes and seasonings, and cook until 
fat is absorbed and potatoes well heated and slightly 
browned. Sprinkle with parsley just before serving. Use 
two or three frying pans, and do not put potatoes on to 
cook until about fifteen or twenty minutes before they are 
to be served. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

8 quarts chopped cold I teaspoon pepper 

cooked potatoes 2 tablespoons salt, or more 

2.\ cups salt pork fat if needed 

Mix finely-chopped potatoes, melted pork fat, pepper, 
and salt to taste. Spread in shallow frying or baking pans 
and cook on range or in oven until brown underneath. 
Fold like omelet. 

Creamed Potatoes with Eggs 

5 quarts cold diced 3 quarts White Sauce I 

potatoes 24 hard- cooked eggs 

\ teaspoon pepper 

Add diced potatoes and chopped whites to sauce and 
reheat. Turn into serving dishes and strain yolks over top. 



VEGETABLES I$I 

Potato Cakes 

Shape cold mashed potatoes in round, flat cakes, dredge 
with flour or not as preferred, and saute in a very small 
amount of pork or bacon fat in frying pans or on griddle. 

Delmonico Potatoes 

6 quarts cold diced 3 quarts White Sauce I 

potatoes or 3 cups grated cheese 

9 pounds peeled raw ones i quart buttered crumbs 
i teaspoon paprika 

Cook potatoes in salted water until soft, but not broken. 
When perfectly cold, cut in half-inch cubes. Grate cheese, 
sprinkle with paprika, and dissolve in sauce. Put potatoes 
in six baking dishes, pour over the sauce, lifting potatoes 
carefully with fork until sauce is well distributed. Cover 
with crumbs and brown delicately in moderate oven. 

Baked Potatoes 

Scrub thoroughly one and one-half pecks potatoes of 
uniform size. Trim of! any imperfections, put into drip- 
ping pans, and bake in moderately hot oven from one and 
one-half to two hours, for potatoes of medium size. 

Austrian Potatoes 

15 pounds (i peck) J cup lemon juice 

potatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

3 cups melted butter i teaspoon paprika 

teaspoon pepper 

Wash, pare, and cut potatoes in one-eighth inch slices. 
Parboil two minutes in salted water. Drain, put in drip- 



152 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ping pans to depth of about two inches. Bake one hour, 
or until potatoes are soft, basting with butter which has 
been mixed with seasonings. 

Hongroise Potatoes 

IO pounds potatoes cut 6 tablespoons chopped 

in half -inch cubes parsley 

ij cups butter 4 teaspoons salt 

i cups flour I teaspoon paprika 

J teaspoon onion juice 3 quarts milk 
6 egg yolks 

Weigh potatoes after peeling. Cook in salted water 
until soft, but not broken. Melt butter, add onion juice 
and flour, and stir until smooth. Add hot milk, stirring 
until smooth, then cook thirty minutes in dpuble boiler. 
Add very gradually to beaten yolks about a quart of hot 
sauce, then return to double boiler, stirring hard until 
smooth. Turn potatoes into serving dishes, pour over 
them the sauce, to which salt and paprika have been added, 
and sprinkle with parsley. 

Mashed Potatoes 

15 pounds (i peck) i quart milk or more 

potatoes i cup butter 

5 tablespoons salt 

Pare potatoes and put into cold water until time for 
cooking. If uneven in size, cut large ones in two. Cook 
in boiling salted water until soft, drain, put through ricer, 
add seasonings, and hot milk in which butter has been 
melted. Beat until creamy, and add more salt or milk 
if needed. 



VEGETABLES 153 

Mock Potato Puff 

Add enough hot milk to Mashed Potatoes to make them 
a little too moist to serve as mashed potatoes, pile lightly 
and unevenly in baking dishes, and put in hot oven long 
enough to brown slightly. Serve in same dishes. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

IO pounds (6 quarts) i cups butter 

sliced potatoes 3 tablespoons salt 

2 quarts hot milk i teaspoon pepper 

cup flour 

Peel potatoes before weighing; peel and slice before 
measuring. If potatoes are very large, cut them in two 
lengthwise before slicing. Parboil two minutes to remove 
strong flavor, drain. Put into six baking dishes a layer 
of potato, then a slight dredging of flour; repeat until 
potatoes are used. Dissolve salt, pepper, and butter in hot 
milk, pour over potatoes, cover, and cook in slow oven 
one and one-half hours, or until done. Remove covers 
long enough to brown potatoes delicately. 

Potatoes Baked with Bacon 

Pare one peck potatoes, remove centers lengthwise with 
apple corer. Slice bacon very thin and put a piece in each 
cavity. Place potatoes in dripping pans and bake one and 
one-half hours, or until done, basting occasionally with 
bacon fat. The centers may be used for mashed potatoes. 

Franconia Potatoes 

Pare one peck potatoes of uniform size ; if very large, 
cut them in two. Parboil ten minutes, drain, put in drip- 



154 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ping pans. Pour over them melted beef drippings, and 
bake about one and one-half hours, basting several times 
with fat in pan. The potatoes should be golden brown all 
over. Serve with roast meat. 

Maftre d'Hdtel Potatoes 

15 pounds small potatoes i teaspoon pepper 
3 cups butter 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 tablespoons salt parsley 

J cup lemon juice 

Choose quite small, uniform potatoes, old or new ; peel 
and cook in salted water until soft, but not broken. Drain, 
put in serving dishes, add sauce, and put dishes in oven 
long enough to melt butter. To make sauce, cream butter, 
add seasonings, and lemon juice very slowly. 

Broiled Potatoes 

15 pounds potatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

2 cups butter or pork fat I teaspoon pepper 

Peel potatoes and cook in salted water until nearly, but 
not quite, done. Cut in two or three slices lengthwise, 
lay in dripping pans, dot over with butter, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cook in broiler until done and slightly 
browned on both sides. Use more butter if needed. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

20 pounds (i pecks) 3 cups sugar 
sweet potatoes i cups water 

6 tablespoons butter 

Wash and pare potatoes. Cook ten minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, put in 



VEGETABLES 155 

shallow pans. Cook sugar and water together two minutes, 
add butter, and brush potatoes. Bake about forty-five 
minutes, basting with remaining syrup. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

6 quarts mashed potatoes teaspoon pepper 
i cups butter 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons salt 12 eggs or 24 yolks 

Mix ingredients thoroughly, cool, shape, roll in crumbs, 
egg, and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. This makes about one 
hundred large croquettes. 



CHEESE DISHES 

Scalloped Cheese 

5 quarts milk 5 tablespoons butter 

4 quarts dried or stale 3 tablespoons salt 

bread in pieces i teaspoon paprika 

i or more pounds cheese 12 to 16 eggs 

Heat milk and pour over bread, which should be quite 
stale, or even dried. Add grated or chopped cheese, cool. 
Add salt, pepper, melted butter, and well-beaten eggs. 
Mix well, pour into buttered baking dishes, and bake 
slowly one and one-half hours, or until done. Serve grape 
jelly with it. 

Cheese Fondue 

^ 2 quarts scalded milk \ % cup butter 

^"2 quarts soft, stale bread 4 teaspoons mustard 

crumbs 4 teaspoons salt 

/ 2 pounds mild American yi teaspoon paprika 

cheese < 24 eggs 

Grate or chop cheese. Mix first six ingredients together, 
add well-beaten yolks, cut and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. 
Pour into six buttered baking dishes and bake thirty 
minutes in moderate oven. 



156 



CHEESE DISHES 157 

Cheese Cream Toast 

2 cups butter 4 quarts milk 

2-J cups flour i pound or more cheese 

4 teaspoons salt teaspoon paprika 

Make a sauce of the first four ingredients, following 
directions for making White Sauces. Add grated or 
chopped cheese, stir till smooth. Serve on carefully 
browned toast which has been dipped in hot water. Very 
nice served with crisp bacon as a garnish. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

A DINNER salad should be of lettuce, chiccory, Romaine, 
watercress, cucumbers, tomatoes, or other light vegetables, 
served with French Dressing. 

Luncheon salads should be of meat, fish, eggs, or the 
more nutritious vegetables, especially if served as the main 
course. 

All salad plants should be thoroughly washed, and kept 
on ice or in a cold place until served. Shake and wipe dry 
with cheesecloth. The dressing may be added just before 
sending to table or served at table. Green vegetables wilt 
very quickly after the dressing is added. 

Meats or vegetables should be cut in one-half inch cubes, 
and marinated separately with French Dressing for an 
hour or so before using. Drain off any dressing not 
absorbed before mixing with other dressing. Fish should 
be flaked, or cut in cubes or uniform pieces. 

There are many simple and suitable garnishes for 
salads, but care should be taken that harmonious colors 
as well as flavors are combined in a salad. 

Hard-cooked eggs, radishes, and stuffed olives sliced 
crosswise ; canned Spanish peppers, carrots, and beets cut 
in cubes or fancy shapes; olives, capers, and shredded 
green peppers all are attractive garnishes, if used 
judiciously. 



158 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 159 

Boiled Dressing 

2 tablespoons salt 4 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons mustard 6 well-beaten eggs 

\ cup sugar -J cup melted butter 

J teaspoon pepper 4 cups hot milk 

teaspoon paprika i cups hot vinegar 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten eggs, pour on hot milk, 
stirring constantly. Return to double boiler and cook until 
mixture thickens, adding butter when nearly done. Re- 
move from fire and add hot vinegar. Be careful not to 
overcook dressing, or it will curdle. If it does curdle, 
remove from hot water and beat hard with Dover egg 
beater, as that will sometimes restore smoothness. 

Cream Dressing 

2 tablespoons salt 4 eggs or 8 yolks 

ij tablespoons mustard 4 tablespoons butter 
5 tablespoons sugar 3^ cups milk 

5 tablespoons flour f cup vinegar 

\ teaspoon pepper i cups heavy cream 

Make as Boiled Dressing. When cold, fold in cream 
which has been beaten until stiff. If dressing is to be 
used with fruit, lemon juice instead of vinegar is an 
improvement. 

Sour Cream Dressing 

2j tablespoons salt 4 well-beaten eggs 

2 tablespoons mustard I quart sour cream 

6 tablespoons sugar i teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons flour i cup vinegar 

Mix cream and beaten eggs ; mix dry ingredients thor- 
oughly, add vinegar, combine mixtures, and cook in double 
boiler until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. 



I6O RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

French Dressing 

I j tablespoons salt J teaspoon pepper 

I teaspoon mustard I cup vinegar or lemon 

1 teaspoon paprika juice 

2 cups olive oil 

Rub bottom of wide-mouthed pitcher with onion. Put 
all ingredients into pitcher and beat until creamy with 
Dover egg beater. Serve at once. 

Creole French Dressing 

2 cups olive oil cup finely-chopped 
ij cups vinegar parsley 

2 teaspoons powdered I tablespoon chopped 

sugar red pepper 

} cup finely-chopped 2 tablespoons chopped 

onion green pepper 

4 teaspoons salt 

Mix ingredients in order given, let stand one hour, then 
beat vigorously five minutes. Serve at once. 



Cream French Dressing 

4 teaspoons salt i cup lemon juice or 

J teaspoon pepper vinegar 

i teaspoon paprika 2 cups olive oil 

i cups heavy cream 

Mix ingredients in a wide-mouthed pitcher and beat 
with Dover egg beater until creamy. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS l6l 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

i teaspoon mustard I pint olive oil 

1 teaspoon powdered sugar I tablespoon vinegar 

2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons lemon 
% teaspoon paprika juice 

J teaspoon pepper 2 egg yolks 

2 egg whites 

Mix dry ingredients, stir in yolks of eggs, then beat in, 
drop by drop, a little oil, using Mayonnaise mixer or an 
egg beater. When mixture begins to thicken, add a few 
drops acid, then more oil, and so continue alternating until 
oil is all used. If oil is added too rapidly, mixture will 
curdle. A smooth consistency may be restored by adding 
curdled mixture slowly to yolk of another egg. Stir in 
stiffly-beaten whites. A good quality of cottonseed salad 
oil may be used in place of olive oil, with very satisfactory 
results and at a low cost. This oil is wholesome and cheap, 
and should be used freely in its undisguised form, instead 
of paying for so-called olive oil which is often adulterated 
with cottonseed oil. If the dressing is not to be used at 
once, keep tightly covered in cold place. Before using, 
remove any drops of oil that have collected on top of 
dressing, or on sides of dish, to prevent curdling. 



Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Add to Mayonnaise Dressing, in place of whites of eggs, 
one cup thick cream beaten until stiff. This should be used 
the day it is made. 



l62 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Apple and Celery Salad 

4 quarts apples Cream or Cream Mayon- 

2 quarts celery naise Dressing 

cup lemon juice 

Cut apples in one-half inch cubes, and celery in pieces 
of the same size, before measuring. Marinate apples with 
lemon juice or French Dressing, as fast as cut, to prevent 
discoloration. Just before serving mix apple, celery, and 
Cream or Cream Mayonnaise Dressing. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves and put a spoonful of dressing on top of 
each serving. One cup of English walnut meats, broken 
in pieces, may be added, if desired. 

Apple and Banana Salad 

4 quarts apples Cream or Cream Mayon- 

8 large bananas naise 

% cup lemon juice 

Cut apples in quarters, then in one-fourth inch slices ; 
cut bananas in slices. Mix and serve as Apple and Celery 
Salad. French Dressing may be used instead of lemon 
juice for marinating fruit. 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Cut bananas in two lengthwise, lay each piece on a bed 
of lettuce leaves, mask with Cream or Cream Mayonnaise 
Dressing, and sprinkle with chopped nuts English wal- 
nuts, pecans, or peanuts. 

Cucumber Salad 

Peel and slice eight large or twelve small crisp cucum- 
bers, pile on lettuce leaves, and serve with French or 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 163 

Creole Dressing. This salad may be varied by combining 
with sliced radishes, shredded green peppers, or shredded 
Bermuda onions. 

Cabbage Salad 

8 pounds cabbage Boiled Dressing 

Remove outside leaves and stalks from solid, heavy 
heads of cabbage. Cut in quarters, soak for an hour or 
so in cold water. Drain, wipe dry, shred or chop fine, 
mix with Boiled or Sour Cream Dressing, and serve in 
salad bowls or cabbage shells. 

Cabbage and Celery Salad 

4 pounds cabbage Boiled, Sour Cream, or 

4 quarts celery Cream Dressing 

Shred cabbage fine and cut celery stalks in thin slices 
crosswise. Mix and serve as Cabbage Salad. 

Cheese Salad 

Cut Neufchatel cheese in small cubes and serve on 
lettuce leaves or watercress, with French, Creole, or Cream 
French Dressing. 

Or mix cheese with very finely-chopped parsley, lettuce, 
or watercress, or with paprika, and shape in small balls. 

Uplands Salad 

12 Neufchatel cheeses f cup chopped nuts 

| cup chopped olives i teaspoon salt 

f cup chopped green i teaspoon paprika 
peppers 

Chop olives, mild peppers, and English walnuts very 
fine. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, pack in oblong 



164 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

form, let stand two hours or more. Cut in one-half inch 
slices and break or cut each slice in cubes, serve on lettuce 
leaves with French or Cream French Dressing. Cottage 

cheese may be used instead of Neufchatel. 



Cheese and Pineapple Salad 

6 Neufchatel cheeses French or 

2 No. 3 cans pineapple Cream French Dressing 

Cut cheese and pineapple in one-half inch cubes, arrange 
on lettuce leaves, and serve with French or Cream French 
Dressing. 

Chicken Salad 

5 quarts chicken or 5 quarts celery 

chicken and veal I cup French Dressing 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Cut cold boiled or roasted chicken in one-half inch cubes 
or pieces and marinate with French Dressing. Cut celery 
in half-inch pieces. Just before serving, mix chicken and 
celery, pile on lettuce leaves, and put a tablespoonful 
dressing on top of each serving. Garnish with hard-cooked 
eggs. 

Daisy Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in two crosswise, remove yolks 
without breaking whites, and rub through strainer. Cut 
each half of whites in eight sections lengthwise. Arrange 
lettuce for individual servings, put a spoonful of Mayon- 
naise, Boiled, or Sour Cream Dressing in center of each. 
Place around dressing the white segments, to form petals, 
and sprinkle over dressing the yolks, which have been 
mixed with salt and pepper and rubbed through a strainer. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 165 

Egg Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in slices, place on lettuce leaves, 
and put a spoonful of Mayonnaise or Boiled Dressing on 
top of each serving. 

Fruit Salad 

2 dozen oranges 2 No. 3 cans pineapple 

2 dozen bananas 6 heads lettuce 

Peel bananas and cut in one- fourth inch slices. Peel 
oranges and separate pulp from each section. Drain pine- 
apple and cut in one-half inch cubes. Malaga grapes may 
be used in place of part of the oranges and bananas. Com- 
bine fruits, mix with French Dressing, and serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Macedoine Salad 

2 quarts string beans 2 quarts carrots or beets 

2 quarts peas or flageolets 6 heads lettuce 

Any left-over vegetables, in any proportion, may be used 
instead of those given, Cut string beans in inch pieces, 
carrots and beets in one-half inch cubes. Marinate each 
vegetable separately with French Dressing. Arrange 
lettuce for individual servings, put a small mound of peas 
or flageolets in center, surround with string beans, and 
scatter over top a spoonful of carrot or beet cubes. Serve 
with French or Creole Dressing. 

Tomato Salad 

Tomatoes for salad should be ripe and firm. About 
one peck will be required. Plunge into boiling water for 
a few seconds, peel, cut out stem, and chill. Just before 



l66 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

using, cut in halves, or in half -inch slices crosswise, or 
in six sections lengthwise. Place on lettuce leaves and 
serve with French, Creole,, or Cream French Dressing. 
Mayonnaise Dressing is also used sometimes. 

Tomato Salad may be varied in many ways, of which 
a few are suggested below. 

Tomato and Pepper. Wash four large, mild green 
peppers, remove seeds and white membranes, cut cross- 
wise in thin shreds or slices, and use as garnish. 

Tomato and Cucumber. Pare six cucumbers, cut in 
dice, and put a spoonful over tomatoes. 

Tomato and Cheese. Cut tomatoes in halves and place 
each on a bed of lettuce leaves. Put on top a few small 
cubes or balls of Neufchatel cheese. Shredded pepper may 
be added if desired. 



Potato Salad 

9 quarts potato cubes 2\ cups olive oil or 

1 quart celery melted butter 
5 tablespoons salt ij cups vinegar 

2 teaspoons pepper \ cup chopped green 
I teaspoon paprika peppers 

2 onions finely minced 

Sour cucumber pickles cut in one-half inch cubes may 
be used in place of a part of the vinegar, and celery salt 
in place of the celery. Mix ingredients thoroughly but 
carefully, let stand thirty minutes or so to chill. Serve in 
salad bowl. Garnish with watercress or parsley ; and with 
hard-cooked eggs, chopped pimientos, or stuffed olives cut 
in thin slices. Boiled or Mayonnaise Dressing may be 
served with this salad if desired. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS l/ 

Salmon Salad I 

6 pint cans salmon 6 cups cucumber pickles 

3 quarts coarsely-chopped cut in pieces 

cabbage 6 tablespoons vinegar 

1 tablespoon celery salt I teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons salt 24 hard-cooked eggs 

Remove bones and skin from salmon and break in 
pieces. Cut pickles and eggs in pieces. Mix all ingredi- 
ents together. Garnish with watercress or celery tops. 
Serve in salad bowls or on platters. 

Salmon Salad II 

8 pint cans salmon or 6 heads lettuce 

4 quarts flaked fresh fish Mayonnaise Dressing 

Drain salmon, remove bones and skin, and break in 
pieces. If fresh fish is used, remove bones and skin and 
flake carefully, or cut neatly in pieces. Pile salmon on 
lettuce leaves and put over each serving a spoonful of 
dressing. 



PASTRY 

Plain Paste 

3 quarts flour 2 cups lard 

4 teaspoons salt Cold water 

Mix flour and salt. Add lard, and chop or cut or rub 
with tips of fingers until well mixed. Moisten to a stiff 
dough with cold water, being careful not to use too much. 
No matter how much shortening is used, if too much 
moisture is added, the crust will be hard and tough. The 
dough should be so dry that it is really difficult to roll. 
If pies are to have an upper crust, reserve two tablespoons 
lard and dot over upper crusts just before putting in oven. 
This gives pies a flaky appearance. 

In making pies with two crusts, the upper crust should 
always be perforated to allow escape of steam. The lower 
crust should be moistened with water around edge before 
pressing together the two edges, in order to prevent 
separation. This quantity of paste makes enough for eight 
or nine pies with two crusts. 

Always bake pies on bottom of range oven or on lower 
grate of gas oven, never on upper grate of oven, or lower 
crust will be underdone. 

Apple Pie 

4i cups apple i teaspoon butter 

| teaspoon nutmeg or J teaspoon salt 

cinnamon I cup sugar 

Line plates with paste. Pare, core, and cut apples in 
eighths. Mix sugar, salt, and spice; put part of sugar 

1 68 



PASTRY 169 

in bottom of plates, fill with apples, cover with remaining 
sugar. Dot over top with bits of butter. Moisten edges 
of lower crusts, put on upper crusts, and press edges firmly 
together. Use above proportions for each pie. 

Pumpkin Pie 

2 quarts milk 4^ cups sugar 

12 eggs 6 tablespoons molasses 

3 cans or 3 quarts 2 tablespoons salt 

pumpkin 2 tablespoons ginger 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 

Steam pumpkin and rub through sieve, or use canned. 
Mix sugar, salt, and spices, add pumpkin, beaten eggs, 
milk, and molasses. Bake slowly forty to fifty minutes, 
or until knife comes out clean. This quantity makes eight 
or nine pies. 

Lemon Pie 

7 scant cups sugar 1} cups lemon juice 
7 cups boiling water or 9 lemons 

if cups cornstarch 3 tablespoons butter 

1 8 egg yolks i cup powdered sugar 

i teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Mix cornstarch, sale, and sugar, add boiling water, 
stirring constantly. Cook five minutes and add gradually 
to egg yolks. Add butter, grated rind and juice of lemons. 
Line eight or nine plates with paste, turn in cooled mix- 
ture, bake until pastry is done. Cool slightly, cover with 
meringue made as follows : 

Meringue. Beat egg whites until stiff, add powdered 
sugar gradually, and continue beating, then add flavoring. 
Pile lightly on pies, leaving surface uneven ; bake fifteen 
minutes in slow oven. 



I7O RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Custard Pie 

24 eggs -; v I teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar 4 quarts milk 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt, and milk. Line 
plates with crust, building up fluted rims, and fill with 
mixture. Grate nutmeg over top. Place in hot oven at 
first to set crust. Decrease heat quickly. Bake in slow 
oven until custard is firm in center. This quantity makes 
eight deep pies. 

Blueberry Pie 

6 quarts berries 4 teaspoons vinegar 

2 quarts sugar i teaspoon salt 

Line eight or nine plates with crust. Mix sugar, salt, 
and one cup of flour. Fill crusts with berries, add sugar 
and vinegar, cover with crust, and bake until berries are 
done and crust slightly browned. 

Blackberry or Raspberry Pie 

Use recipe for Blueberry Pie, omitting vinegar and one- 
half the flour. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

4 quarts cranberries 2j quarts sugar 

i J quarts stoned raisins 2,\ cups water 

J cup flour 4 tablespoons butter 

Put cranberries and raisins through meat chopper, mix 
with sugar, flour, and water. Line plates with crust, put 
in filling, dot over with butter, cover with crust, and bake 
in moderate oven. 



PASTRY I7 1 

Cranberry Tart Filling 

6 cups cranberries 6 cups sugar 

3 cups stoned raisins 3 cups water 

Put berries and raisins through meat chopper. Cook all 
ingredients together until of consistency of jam, add six 
teaspoons vanilla. Cool, and use as filling for tarts. 

Mince Meat 

ij quarts chopped meat 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

2j quarts chopped apple ij teaspoons mace 

1 quart brown sugar i teaspoons cloves 
| quart granulated sugar cup vinegar 

2 cups raisins 3 oranges 

2 cups currants 3 lemons 

3 cups molasses f pound citron chopped 
3 cups meat liquor I tablespoon lemon 
Salt to taste extract 

i teaspoon almond extract 

Mix ingredients except oranges, lemons, and flavoring, 
and cook slowly two hours, or until done. Add grated rind 
and juice of lemons and oranges, and extract. 



HOT DESSERTS 

Apple Tapioca 

3 cups minute tapioca 2 teaspoons salt 

3 quarts boiling water 2 cups sugar 

peck apples 

Add salt and boiling water to tapioca and cook in double 
boiler until transparent. Pare, quarter, and core tart 
apples, put into buttered baking dishes, add sugar and 
tapioca. Bake an hour or more in moderate oven. The 
apples should be quite soft. Serve warm with sugar and 
cream. 

Prune Pudding 

4 quarts milk 2 cups sugar 

i cups cornstarch 4 teaspoons vanilla 

1 8 egg yolks 3 pounds prunes 

3 teaspoons salt 18 egg whites 

Soak prunes twenty- four hours or more in water to 
barely cover them. Cook in same water in double boiler 
until soft ; remove stones. Mix cornstarch, salt, and sugar, 
add hot milk, and cook in double boiler thirty minutes, 
stirring often. Add mixture to beaten yolks, stirring until 
smooth. Put prunes into buttered baking dishes, pour 
over them the custard, bake twenty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Make meringue of egg whites and one cup of sugar 
beaten until stiff, pile lightly on prune mixture, bake in 
very slow oven until slightly browned. Serve warm or 
cold. 

172 



HOT DESSERTS 



Cream of Rice Pudding 
f cup rice cup sugar 

2 quarts milk \ teaspoon salt 

J teaspoon cinnamon 

Prepare above proportions for each one of three baking 
dishes. Wash rice, mix ingredients, put into buttered 
baking dishes, and bake slowly from four to five hours, 
or until of a creamy consistency. During first hour stir 
occasionally with a fork. If cooked too fast it will curdle. 
Serve quite warm or very cold. 

Indian Pudding 

4^ quarts scalded milk 2 cups molasses 

ij cups Indian meal 4 teaspoons salt 

4 teaspoons ginger 

Add milk slowly to corn meal, cook twenty minutes in 
double boiler, add molasses, salt, and ginger. Pour into 
buttered baking dishes and bake three or four hours in 
slow oven. It will not whey if baked too rapidly. Serve 
with cream. 

Cracker Pudding 

i-J pounds crackers cup butter 

5 quarts scalded milk 5 teaspoons salt 
10 eggs 5 teaspoons cinnamon 

5 cups brown sugar 2 teaspoons nutmeg 
3 cups plumped raisins 

Split crackers, spread with butter, add hot milk, and 
let stand an hour or more. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar 



174 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

mixed with spices, and turn into cracker mixture; add 
raisins. Put into buttered baking dishes, bake slowly one 
hour, or until knife com0s out clean. The deeper the bak- 
ing dish the longer the time required for baking. Stir 
occasionally during first half hour. Serve with Vanilla 
Sauce. 

Orange Marmalade Pudding 

4 quarts fine bread 4 quarts milk 

crumbs 18 eggs 

i quart sugar f cup butter 

4 cups orange marmalade 

Cream butter and sugar together, add beaten yolks, 
milk, bread crumbs, and whites beaten to a froth. Put a 
layer in bottom of buttered baking dishes, spread with 
marmalade, then another layer of the custard mixture, 
then one of marmalade, and finish with the custard. Serve 
with sweetened cream or custard sauce. 

Caramel Bread Pudding 

2\ cups sugar 10 well-beaten eggs 

| cup water 3 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts hot milk 5 pints dry bread in small 
J cup melted butter pieces 

Caramelize sugar, add water, and stir until dissolved, 
then add to hot milk. Turn milk over bread, add salt and 
butter. When lukewarm, add eggs, turn into shallow 
baking dishes, and bake slowly forty-five minutes, or until 
knife comes out clean. Serve with whipped cream and 
caramel sauce made as follows: Caramelize three cups 
sugar until light brown, add three cups water, and simmer 
fifteen minutes, or to a thick syrup. 



HOT DESSERTS 175 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

2^ quarts stale bread 10 ounces chocolate 
crumbs or dry bread 3 cups sugar 

in small pieces 10 eggs well beaten 

5 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

5 teaspoons vanilla 

Soak bread in hot milk until soft. Melt chocolate in 
saucepan over hot water, add one-half the sugar, and milk 
enough (from the bread and milk) to pour. Mix all in- 
gredients, turn into shallow baking dishes, and bake slowly 
one hour, or until knife comes out clean. Serve with 
Hard or Sunshine Sauce, or with whipped cream. 

Spiced Pudding 

2^ quarts dried bread in 2 cups sugar 

small pieces 3 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons mixed spice 
2 cups molasses (cinnamon, cloves, all- 

2 cups raisins spice, nutmeg) 

Soak bread in milk until soft, add other ingredients, and 
mix well. Put into shallow baking dishes and bake slowly 
one hour, or until knife comes out clean. Stir two or three 
times during first fifteen minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Prune Whip 

4 pounds prunes 24 egg whites 

2 pounds sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Soak prunes over night in water to barely cover, cook 
in double boiler until soft, stone, and rub through puree 



176 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

strainer. The mixture should be quite thick. Add sugar, 
and fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs and lemon juice. 
Put into baking dishes and bake about twenty minutes in 
slow oven. Serve hot or cold, with Soft Custard Sauce 
or sweetened whipped cream. 

Other fruits may be used instead of prunes. 



Baked Chocolate Pudding 

I J cups butter 6 cups flour 

6 cups sugar 3 tablespoons baking 

6 eggs powder 

6 cups milk i pounds chocolate 

Cream butter, add sugar, and mix well, then stir in 
well-beaten eggs. Dissolve chocolate over hot water, add 
milk, combine the two mixtures, and add flour which has 
been sifted with baking powder. If put into six baking 
dishes, it will require about forty minutes in moderate 
oven for baking. Serve at once, as it falls as soon as it 
begins to cool. Serve with Sunshine Sauce. 

Honeycomb Pudding 

5 cups sugar 2^ cups butter 

5 cups flour 2,\ cups lukewarm milk 

5 cups molasses 5 teaspoons soda 

20 well-beaten eggs 

Mix sugar and flour and add molasses. Melt butter in 
milk and add soda. Combine mixtures and add eggs. 
Turn into well-greased oblong pans and bake in moderate 
oven. Serve at once with Cream Sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS 177 

Apple Dumplings 

3 quarts flour i^ cups shortening 

2 tablespoons baking 2 tablespoons salt 

powder 3 cups sugar 

3 cups water 50 apples 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together; work in 
shortening and add water to moisten enough to roll out. 
Cut paste in rounds one- fourth inch in thickness, place 
an apple in center of each, fill cavity with sugar and cinna- 
mon or nutmeg, draw paste around apple, folding and 
pinching edges together, place in pan rough side down. 
Bake forty-five to sixty minutes. When about half done, 
pour boiling water around apples to depth of one-half inch. 
The apples should be quite soft; they may be tested by 
pricking with fork. 

Serve with Vanilla, Lemon, or Nutmeg Sauce, or with 
sugar and cream. 

Egg Roll 

3 quarts flour 3 cups milk or milk and 

6 eggs water 

4| teaspoons salt i cups shortening 

6 tablespoons baking powder 

Sift dry ingredients together, cut or rub in shortening, 
add milk gradually, mixing to as soft a dough as can be 
handled. Sometimes a little more or less milk must be 
used to make it of the right consistency. This is nice for 
shortcake and puddings. Brush over top of crust with 
milk or white of egg and sprinkle with sugar. Bake in hot 
oven. 



178 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Baked Apple Pudding 

1 peck apples 3 teaspoons cinnamon or 
I J quarts sugar nutmeg 

Egg Roll 

Peel, quarter, and core apples. Fill baking dishes half 
full, add sugar, spice, and water to come half way to top. 
Cover and bake until about half done. Roll Egg Roll 
mixture to one-half inch in thickness and of a size to fit 
baking dishes, make an opening in center, cover apple, and 
bake thirty minutes, or until done, in hot oven. Serve with 
Vanilla or Nutmeg Sauce, or with cream and maple syrup. 
Canned or fresh peaches or berries may be used in the 
same way. Serve with the fruit on top. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

2 quarts flour 4 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt I cup shortening 

6 tablespoons baking 3! cups milk 

powder i cup sugar 

peck apples 

Mix dry ingredients ; beat eggs, add milk, and mix with 
dry ingredients, then add melted shortening. Pour into 
well-greased shallow cake pans. Cut apples into sixteenths, 
lay them in parallel rows in the dough, pressing the edges 
lightly into it. Brush top with melted butter, sprinkle with 
one cup sugar mixed with two teaspoons cinnamon. Serve 
with Vanilla or Nutmeg Sauce, or with sugar and cream. 

Fruit Puffs 

Make Egg Roll mixture, using only whites of eggs, 
and milk to make a drop dough. Put a spoonful of canned 



HOT DESSERTS 1 79 

or preserved peaches or other fruit in bottom of well- 
buttered cups or individual molds, fill cups half full of 
dough, and steam thirty-five minutes. Serve with fruit 
juice sweetened to taste. 

Cottage Pudding 

5 eggs 2j quarts flour 

5 cups sugar 5 teaspoons vanilla 

f cup melted butter 3 tablespoons baking 

3J cups milk powder 

i teaspoon salt 

Sift dry ingredients together, add sugar and milk mixed 
with beaten egg yolks, then melted butter. Fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites of eggs, turn into well-greased shallow pans, 
bake about forty-five minutes in moderate oven. Serve 
with Vanilla, Strawberry, Orange, or Chocolate Sauce I. 

Steamed Pudding 

I J cups butter 4^ tablespoons baking 
2 cups sugar powder 

2.\ quarts flour i teaspoon salt 

I quart milk 4 eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients and rub in butter with tips 
of fingers. Beat eggs, add milk, and combine mixtures. 
Put in buttered molds, cover, and steam two hours. Serve 
with hot apple sauce and Hard Sauce. 

Strawberry Shortcake 
Egg Roll 8 boxes strawberries 

Hull strawberries and cut in pieces. Add sugar to taste 
and let stand for a short time where they will warm 



ISO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

slightly. Pat and roll Egg Roll mixture to one-half inch 
thickness, and bake in hot oven in pie tins or in small 
rounds like biscuit. Split and spread with butter, put 
berries between layers and on top. Serve with the fruit 
juice, and cream if desired. 

Fresh or canned peaches, apricots, raspberries, or other 
fruit may be used in place of strawberries. 



Graham Pudding 

2} cups molasses 2f teaspoons soda 

if cups shortening 2 quarts sifted Graham 

2 cups milk flour 

5 eggs I quart raisins 

5 teaspoons salt 

Melt shortening, add molasses, milk, well-beaten eggs, 
dry ingredients mixed and sifted, and raisins. Steam 
four hours. Serve with Creamy or Sterling Sauce. 



Suet Pudding 

3 cups finely-chopped 3 teaspoons soda 
suet 4 teaspoons salt 

3 cups molasses 2 teaspoons ginger 

3 cups milk 2 teaspoons nutmeg 

2,\ quarts flour I teaspoon cloves 

i tablespoon cinnamon 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk 
to suet; combine mixtures. Turn into greased molds, 
cover, and steam three hours. Serve with Sterling Sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS l8l 

Bellevue Pudding 

I quart molasses I quart sweet milk 

1 cup shortening 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 quarts bread flour 4 teaspoons cloves 

4 teaspoons soda 

Dissolve soda in milk. Melt shortening, add molasses, 
milk, and dry ingredients, turn into greased molds, steam 
two and one-half hours. Serve with Creamy Sauce. 

Nut Pudding 

3 cups molasses 3 cups chopped suet 
3 cups sweet milk 3 cups seeded raisins 
7^ cups flour 3 cups English walnuts 

3 teaspoons soda f pound chopped figs 
I teaspoon salt 2 small nutmegs 

Sift dry ingredients together. Mix fruit and suet and 
add molasses ; then add milk and flour alternately. Steam 
three and one-half hours. Serve with Foamy Sauce. 

English Plum Pudding 

i pound chopped beef suet i pound chopped raisins 

1 pound flour I pound currants 

4 teaspoons baking powder i pound brown sugar 

2 teaspoons cinnamon J pound citron cut fine 
i teaspoon cloves J pound candied orange 
i teaspoon mace peel 

i teaspoon salt I cup sweet milk 

4 well-beaten eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add finely-chopped suet 
and fruit, and then milk and eggs. Steam six hours. This 
makes enough for two two-quart molds. 



1 82 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Apples 

6 quarts sliced apples 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

6 quarts soft bread crumbs i cups butter 

4 cups sugar 3 cups or more water 

Mix melted butter and crumbs, and put a layer in 
bottom of baking dishes. Cover with a layer of apple, 
sprinkle with sugar mixed with cinnamon. Continue in 
this way until there are three layers of bread and two of 
apple. Add water and bake in moderate oven one and 
one-half hours, or until apples are cooked to pieces. Keep 
dishes covered part of the time. The crumbs should be 
delicately browned on top. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Apple Charlotte 

16 pounds apples i cups melted butter 

2 quarts sugar I tablespoon cinnamon 

Pare, quarter, and core apples, and stew until tender; 
add sugar and cinnamon. Cut bread one- fourth inch thick, 
removing crusts. Brush slices with melted butter and line 
sides of baking dishes. Put in apple sauce, cover with 
bread having buttered side up, sprinkle with sugar, and 
bake forty-five minutes, or until bread is golden brown. 
Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Scalloped Rhubarb 

5 quarts soft bread 8 pounds rhubarb cut in 

crumbs inch pieces 

ij cups melted butter 2 quarts sugar 
mixed with crumbs 

Butter baking dishes, put in a layer of crumbs, then 
rhubarb and sugar, and so continue until ingredients are 



HOT DESSERTS 183 

used. The top layer should be crumbs. Bake one hour, 
or until rhubarb is soft and crumbs are slightly brown on 
top. A little water may be added if necessary. Serve 
warm with Hard Sauce. 



PUDDING SAUCES 

Apricot Sauce 

2 quarts apricot pulp I quart heavy cream 

Sugar to taste 

Soak dried apricots several hours or over night in water 
to barely cover. Cook slowly in the same water until soft ; 
rub through a strainer. Canned apricots may be used if 
preferred. Beat cream until stiff, add to apricot pulp, 
and sweeten to taste. 

Chocolate Sauce I 

3 quarts sugar 12 ounces chocolate 
ij quarts boiling water 4 tablespoons vanilla 

Cook sugar, chocolate, and water until it threads. Beat 
thoroughly with Dover egg beater, add vanilla, and serve. 

Chocolate Sauce II 

5 ounces cocoa J cup cold water 

2 cups lukewarm water J teaspoon salt 

2j cups sugar i quart boiling water 

J cup cornstarch J tablespoon vanilla 

Mix cocoa with lukewarm water, add boiling water, 
stirring constantly until it boils. Mix cornstarch with cold 
water and add to hot mixture. Bring to boiling point, 
add sugar and salt. Cook in double boiler one hour, add 
vanilla, and serve hot or cold with puddings or ice cream. 

184 



PUDDING SAUCES 185 

Caramel Sauce 
2 quarts sugar 2 quarts water 

Put sugar in an iron frying pan, and stir until melted 
and golden brown in color. Add water and simmer fifteen 
minutes. 

Creamy Sauce 

5 cups powdered sugar 5 well-beaten eggs 
2\ cups butter f cup boiling water 

5 teaspoons vanilla 

Rub sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs, and beat 
well. Just before serving add boiling water and vanilla. 



Cream Sauce 

5 eggs 3 cups heavy cream 

3f cups powdered sugar J teaspoon salt 

Beat whites until stiff, add powdered sugar, beating all 
the time ; add beaten yolks and fold in cream, which has 
been whipped until stiff. 



Foamy Sauce 

3 cups powdered sugar 3 cups cream 
ij cups butter 6 egg whites 

Cream sugar and butter together. Beat into this cream 
and slightly-beaten egg whites. Put into double boiler 
and beat until smooth and creamy. Cook until it thickens 
and serve at once. 



l86 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fruit Sauce 

2 quarts fruit syrup 4 tablespoons cornstarch 

Sugar to taste 

Drain off syrup from canned fruit and bring to boiling 
point. Mix cornstarch with sugar, or with a little cold 
syrup, add boiling syrup, and boil ten or fifteen minutes, 
stirring often. Serve with any dessert in which the fruit 
itself has been used. 

Grape Sauce 

Make same as Strawberry Sauce. 

Use stewed or canned Concord grapes. If they are very 
sweet, use only half the required amount of sugar. 



Hard Sauce 

2 cups butter J cup boiling water 

6 cups powdered sugar 2 teaspoons lemon extract 

Pour boiling water over butter, stir until creamy, then 
add gradually the sugar and lemon. 

Lemon Sauce 

1 quart sugar cup butter 

2 quarts boiling water cup lemon juice 

cup cornstarch or I teaspoon lemon extract 

| cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add water, stirring constantly 
until smooth. Boil five minutes, remove from fire, and 
add butter and flavorings. 



PUDDING SAUCES 1 87 

Nutmeg Sauce 

Make same as Lemon Sauce, using four teaspoons lemon 
extract and four teaspoons nutmeg in place of lemon juice. 

Orange Sauce 

6 tablespoons cornstarch Grated rind of one-half 
if cups sugar lemon 

if quarts boiling water I tablespoon lemon juice 

Grated rind of one orange cup orange juice 
f cup butter 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add boiling water, stirring 
until it thickens. Boil fifteen minutes, or cook one hour 
in double boiler. Add butter and fruit juice. Serve hot. 

Strawberry Sauce 

ij cups butter 4 cups powdered 

3 cups strawberry pulp sugar 

and juice 4 egg whites 

Cream butter and sugar together, add stiffly-beaten 
whites and strained strawberries. Beat well before 
serving. 

Sunshine Sauce 

6 egg yolks 3 cups thick cream 

3 cups sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Stir beaten yolks and sugar together, add cream which 
has been whipped until stiff, and vanilla. 

Vanilla Sauce 

Make like Lemon Sauce, using two tablespoons vanilla 
in place of nutmeg and lemon. 



1 88 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Sterling Sauce 

3 cups butter 6 teaspoons vanilla 

6 cups brown sugar ij cups cream or milk 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and milk and flavor- 
ing very slowly, to prevent separation. 

Soft Custard Sauce 

i-J quarts milk 9 tablespoons sugar 

9 egg yolks or 2j teaspoons vanilla 

5 small eggs f teaspoon salt 

Beat yolks slightly (if whole eggs are used beat them 
thoroughly) ; add sugar and salt, then pour hot milk 
slowly into them. Return to double boiler and cook until 
mixture thickens; add vanilla. If cooked too much, cus- 
tard will curdle. In that case, set saucepan in cold water 
and beat custard with Dover egg beater until smooth. 



COLD DESSERTS 

Baked Custard 

6 quarts scalded milk 3 cups sugar 

1 8 to 36 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt, and slowly the 
scalded milk. Turn into buttered baking dishes placed 
in larger pans containing hot water. Sprinkle with nut- 
meg and bake slowly until custard is firm. When a silver 
knife comes out clean, the custard is done. The smaller 
number of eggs makes a delicious custard, but not one 
which keeps its shape as perfectly as with the larger 
number. 

Caramel Custard 

6 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

1 8 to 36 eggs 3 cups sugar 

2 tablespoons vanilla 

Put sugar into an iron frying pan, stir constantly until 
melted and light brown in color. Add milk gradually, 
being careful that it does not bubble over when added to 
hot syrup. As soon as sugar is dissolved in milk, add 
to slightly-beaten eggs. Add salt and vanilla, pour into 
buttered baking dishes which have been placed in larger 
pans containing hot water, and bake slowly until custard 
is firm. The custard is done when a knife comes out clean. 
If cooked too long or too fast, custard will whey. The 
larger the number of eggs used, the firmer the custard 
will be. Serve with Caramel Sauce. 

189 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Plain Blanc Mange 

4f quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

2j cups cornstarch 5 teaspoons vanilla if 

3 cups cold milk desired 

ij cups sugar 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt together, and mix to a 
smooth paste with cold milk. Add to scalded milk, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth, and cook forty-five minutes 
in double boiler, stirring occasionally. Serve warm or cold 
with cream and sugar and sweet jelly. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 
4f quarts scalded milk 10 ounces chocolate 
2 cups cornstarch 1$ cups sugar 

3 cups cold milk ij cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 5 teaspoons vanilla 

Mix cornstarch with cold milk until smooth, add slowly 
to hot milk, and cook in double boiler forty-five minutes, 
stirring often to prevent lumps. 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add sugar and boiling 
water, stir until smooth, and add to above mixture, stir- 
ring until thoroughly mixed. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Ribbon Cornstarch Pudding 
3$ quarts scalded milk 12 eggs 
2 cups cornstarch 4 teaspoons vanilla 

2 cups cold milk 3 ounces chocolate 

2 cups sugar 3 or 4 cups prunes 

2 teaspoons salt 6 tablespoons sugar 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt, moisten with cold milk, 
add to hot milk, and cook forty-five minutes in double 



COLD DESSERTS IQI 

boiler, stirring often. Stir hot mixture into beaten egg 
yolks, add vanilla, and cool slightly, then fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites. Turn one-third of mixture into saucepan, 
mix with it melted chocolate, sugar, and prunes which 
have been stoned and cut in pieces. Cook one minute. 
Put into an oblong mold one-half the white mixture, make 
a smooth, even surface, spread over it the chocolate mix- 
ture, and finish with a layer of white on top. Chill and 
serve with thin cream. 

Caramel Pudding 

6 cups brown sugar 2 cups cold water 

2 cups butter 2 teaspoons salt 

4j quarts boiling water 2 tablespoons vanilla 

2j cups cornstarch 3 cups English walnuts 

Cook sugar and butter together until a rich golden 
brown. Add water and thicken with cornstarch mixed 
to paste with cold water. Stir until smooth and cook 
forty-five minutes in double boiler, stirring often. Add 
salt, vanilla, and nuts. Chill and serve with plain cream. 

Norwegian Prune Pudding 

2j pounds prunes 5 inch-pieces cinnamon 

2^ quarts cold water i quarts boiling water 

5 cups sugar if cups cornstarch 

i teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons lemon juice 

Wash prunes, add cold water, and soak over night. 
Cook in same water in double boiler until soft, remove 
stones, and crack them to obtain meats. Dilute cornstarch 
with enough cold water to pour. Mix prunes, prune juice, 
meats, sugar, cinnamon, and boiling water, and bring to 



IQ2 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

boiling point. Add cornstarch and cook forty-five minutes 
in double boiler. Remove cinnamon, add lemon juice, 
chill, and serve with cream, 

Chocolate Cream 

3^ quarts scalded milk 9 ounces chocolate 

3J cups sugar 7 eggs 

ij cups cornstarch 7 teaspoons vanilla 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add milk slowly, and 
heat to scalding point. Mix cornstarch, sugar, and two 
teaspoons salt ; add hot milk mixture to it, return to double 
boiler, and cook forty-five minutes, stirring often. Add 
this mixture to beaten yolks, stirring all the time. Cool 
slightly and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. Add vanilla. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Peach Custard 

Drain syrup from six No. 3 or two No. 10 cans of 
peaches, reserving syrup for fruit sherbet. Cut peaches 
in slices and cover with Soft Custard Sauce. Chill before 
serving. 

Bananas sprinkled with a little lemon juice may be used 
in the same way. 

Tapioca Sherbet 

3 cups minute tapioca Juice of 12 lemons 
6 cups sugar 13 egg whites 

3 quarts boiling water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook tapioca, sugar, salt, and water together in double 
boiler until clear, stirring often. Add juice of lemons 
about six minutes before removing from fire. Put mix- 



COLD DESSERTS 1 93 

ture into platter or shallow agate pan to cool. As soon 
as it begins to jelly at the edges, stir into it quite briskly 
the well-beaten whites of eggs. Beat until very light. A 
little lemon extract may be added. Serve in sherbet glasses 
with whipped cream piled on top. 



Fig Tapioca 

I J cups minute tapioca 6 cups sugar 

3 quarts hot water 2 lemons (juice and grated 

3 tablespoons butter rind) 

3 cups chopped figs 3 teaspoons vanilla 

3 pints cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook tapioca, hot water, salt, and butter together in 
double boiler until tapioca is clear, stirring often. Mix 
figs, lemon juice and grated rind, sugar, and cold water, 
and cook until smooth and thick, stirring constantly to 
prevent burning. Combine mixtures, add vanilla, chill, 
and serve with whipped cream. 



Tapioca Cream 

ij cups pearl tapioca 2 cups sugar 

3 quarts scalded milk 12 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt 6 teaspoons vanilla 

Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, 
add to hot milk, and cook until clear. Mix sugar, salt, and 
slightly-beaten egg yolks, and add hot mixture, stirring 
constantly. Return to double boiler and cook until it 
thickens. Remove from fire and fold in the stiffly-beaten 
whites of eggs. Flavor and chill. 



194 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Pineapple Delicious 

2 pounds marshmallows 3 or 4 No. 3 cans of sliced 
i quart heavy cream pineapple 

Cut marshmallows in four pieces each, and pineapple 
in one-half inch cubes. Mix marshmallows, pineapple, 
and a little pineapple juice, and chill thoroughly. Just 
before serving, drain off juice, and fold in cream which 
has been whipped until stiff. 

Lemon Jelly 

j cup granulated gelatine 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water 3} quarts boiling water 

3 cups lemon juice 

Soak gelatine in cold water twenty minutes, dissolve in 
boiling water, strain through cheesecloth wrung out of 
hot water. Add to sugar and lemon juice, cool, and put 
in refrigerator or other cold place to stiffen. 

Orange Jelly 

f cup granulated gelatine 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water 2j quarts orange juice 

2j quarts boiling water I cup lemon juice 

Make same as Lemon Jelly. Serve with whipped cream. 

Fruit Jelly 

Make Lemon Jelly, cool, cover bottom of shallow agate 
oblong pans, or any desired molds. When jelly begins to 
stiffen, put in a layer of any desired fruit, then another 
layer of gelatine, and so on until all ingredients are used. 



COLD DESSERTS IQ5 

Sliced bananas, sections of orange freed from skin and 
membrane, steamed figs and dates cut in pieces, canned 
peaches and pineapple drained and cut in pieces, candied 
cherries, nuts, and other fruits may be used in any at- 
tractive and palatable combination. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Coffee Jelly 

j cup granulated gelatine ij quarts boiling water 
3 cups cold water 3 cups sugar 

3 quarts boiled coffee 

Make same as Lemon Jelly. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Pineapple Jelly 

10 tablespoons granulated 3 No. 3 cans pineapple 

gelatine 5 lemons 

7i cups boiling water 7^ cups sugar 

Soak gelatine in boiling water until dissolved. Drain 
pineapple and cut in one-half inch cubes. Add to syrup 
sugar, juice of lemons, and grated rind of three of them. 
Boil two minutes, add strained gelatine, and boil seven 
minutes. Add pineapple cubes, chill, and serve with plain 
cream. 

Prune Jelly 

2 pounds prunes 15 tablespoons granulated 

3 quarts cold water gelatine 
Boiling water 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water i cups lemon juice 

Wash prunes and soak over night in cold water, cook 
in same water until soft. Stone prunes and cut in halves. 
Add to prune water enough boiling water to make three 
quarts. Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in hot liquid, 



196 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

add sugar and lemon juice, then strain. Add prunes and 
chill, stirring twice to prevent prunes from settling. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Snow Pudding 

8 tablespoons granulated 8J cups boiling water 

gelatine 4J cups sugar 

2 cups cold water 2 cups lemon juice 

17 egg whites 

Soak gelatine in cold water twenty minutes, dissolve in 
boiling water, strain, and add to sugar and lemon juice. 
Cool, and when it begins to thicken, add beaten whites of 
eggs, and beat until stiff enough to hold its shape. Chill 
and serve with Soft Custard Sauce. 

Apricot Charlotte 

6 tablespoons granulated 2 cups cold water 

gelatine 6 cups strained apricots 

6 cups sugar 2 cups boiling water 

18 egg whites Juice 3 lemons 

Soak two pounds dried apricots over night in cold water 
to cover, and cook in same water until soft, then rub 
through puree strainer. There should be one and one-half 
quarts when strained. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water, sugar, 
and lemon juice. Strain and add apricot juice and pulp. 
When jelly begins to thicken, beat until light, add beaten 
whites, and beat until stiff enough to keep its shape. Chill 
and serve with whipped cream. Canned apricots may be 
used instead of dried ones. 

Oranges, peaches, strawberries, and other fruits may 
be used in place of apricots. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 

USE finely crushed ice. A wooden mallet and burlap bag 
are useful for crushing ice. 

Use coarse rock salt in the proportion of three parts ice 
to one of salt. 

Place the can of the freezer in position in the pail ; put 
in the dasher; pour in the mixture to be frozen; cover, 
and adjust the handle so that it turns freely. Surround 
the can with alternate layers of ice and salt in the propor- 
tions given, beginning with ice. Pack solidly to the top 
of can. 

The freezer can should never be more than three- fourths 
full. 

In freezing ice cream, turn the crank slowly and steadily 
until frozen to a mush, then more rapidly. Add more ice 
and salt as needed. Never draw off water until mixture 
is frozen, unless there is possibility of its getting into can. 

When mixture is frozen, draw off water, remove dasher, 
and pack cream solidly. Put cork in opening, put on cover, 
repack freezer, using four parts ice to one of salt, cover 
with newspapers, then with heavy cloth. Let stand an 
hour or more to ripen. 

Lemon Ice 

4i quarts water 2j quarts sugar 

3f cups lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water together twenty minutes; add 
lemon juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 

197 



198 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Orange Ice 

3| quarts water 7 cups orange juice 

7 cups sugar J cup lemon juice 

Grated rind of 6 oranges 

Make syrup as for Lemon Ice ; add fruit juice and grated 
rind, cool, strain, and freeze. 

Strawberry Ice 

3^ quarts water 7 cups strawberry juice 

5J cups sugar 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Make syrup as for Lemon Ice ; cool, add berries which 
have been mashed and strained through double cheese- 
cloth, and lemon juice ; freeze. 

Raspberry Ice may be made in the same way. 

Mint Sherbet 

2j quarts sugar 2 cups chopped mint 

5 quarts boiling water 3$ cups lemon juice 

Pick over, wash, and chop two large bunches mint. 
Bring sugar and water to boiling point and pour over 
mint. Let stand an hour or two, add lemon juice, strain, 
color delicately with leaf green, and freeze. 

Cranberry Frapp6 

4^ quarts cranberries 2j quarts sugar 

3 quarts water i cups lemon juice 

Cook berries and water ten minutes, put through puree 
strainer, add sugar and lemon juice. Freeze to mush, 
using equal parts ice and salt. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 199 

Grape Frapp6 

7 cups sugar if cups lemon juice 
3^ quarts water 7 cups grape juice 

Boil sugar and water five minutes, add other ingredi- 
ents, and freeze to mush. 

Alaskan Combination 

2 quarts water i cups lemon juice 

1 quart orange juice 8 large bananas 

2 quarts canned peaches 2 quarts sugar 

Fresh peaches may be used in place of canned ones. 
Mash peaches and bananas through strainer, add lemon 
and orange juice, sugar, and water. Freeze. 

Milk Sherbet 

2 cups lemon juice 2 quarts sugar 

4^ quarts milk 

Strain lemon juice, add sugar, and mix thoroughly. 
Add milk slowly, stirring constantly. Turn at once into 
packed freezer. Turn slowly at first, but more rapidly 
when it begins to stiffen. Let stand two hours to ripen. 

Fruit Sherbet 

4 quarts rich milk 4 lemons 

2 quarts sugar I pint finely-shredded 

8 oranges pineapple 

Scald milk, chill ; add fruit juice, pineapple, and sugar. 
Freeze and let ripen two hours. 



2OO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Apricot Sherbet 

2\ quarts strained ij quarts or more sugar 

apricots 2j quarts water or 

6 tablespoons lemon juice 

juice 4 egg whites 

Dried apricots which have been soaked, and stewed 
until soft, may be used. Boil sugar and water together 
five minutes, add strained apricots and lemon juice, chill. 
When half frozen, add stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, to 
which four tablespoons powdered sugar have been added. 
Finish freezing and let stand an hour or so to ripen. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

3 quarts milk f teaspoon salt 

3 cups sugar 6 eggs 

j cup flour 3 tablespoons vanilla 

i quart heavy cream 

Scald milk; mix sugar, salt, and flour together, add 
milk gradually, and return to double boiler. Cook twenty 
minutes, stirring constantly until smooth. Add to slightly- 
beaten eggs, cook three minutes, and cool. Add flavoring 
and cream, and freeze. 



Ginger Ice Cream 

Make Vanilla Ice Cream, using one-half the vanilla, 
one-half cup ginger syrup, and one and one-half cups 
preserved ginger cut in small pieces. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 2OI 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Melt six ounces unsweetened chocolate over hot water. 
Use Vanilla Ice Cream recipe, adding hot custard to 
melted chocolate, then cool and proceed as above. 



Caramel Ice Cream 

3$ quarts milk f teaspoon salt 

i quart sugar 4 eggs 

| cup flour 2 tablespoons vanilla 

i quart heavy cream 

Prepare same as Vanilla Ice Cream, using one-half the 
sugar in the custard. Caramelize the remaining sugar 
and add to hot custard. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

PREPARE pans first. They may be greased, then floured, 
shaking out all the loose flour; or bottom of pans lined 
with paper, then paper and sides of pans greased. 

Always use pastry flour if possible, as it makes a more 
tender cake. If bread flour must be used, allow two table- 
spoons less for each cup, or two ounces less for each pound 
of flour called for in recipe. 

Sift flour before measuring, then mix and sift together, 
two or more times, the flour and all dry ingredients except 
sugar. 

If butter is very hard, warm bowl or mixing pan by 
rinsing with boiling water. Wipe dry, put in butter or 
other shortening, and stir until creamy. In many of the 
following recipes, vegetole, crisco, cotosuet, or other 
shortening is used wholly or partly in place of butter, but 
all butter may be used if preferred. 

Add sugar gradually to creamed butter, then add beaten 
yolks. Measure milk into bowl in which yolks were beaten, 
then add alternately with flour to the butter mixture. Beat 
well, then add fruit or nuts if required, and fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites of eggs and flavoring. 

Fruit should be washed, dried, chopped, and mixed 
with a little of the required amount of flour before adding 
to mixture. 

If coal or wood is used as fuel, the fire should be 
attended to before mixing cake. If gas is used, the oven 

202 



CAKE AND COOKIES 203 

should not be lighted until the cake is partly prepared, or 
it will be too hot. The time required depends wholly on 
size and make of oven. 

Tests: A piece of white paper indicates that the oven is 
of the right temperature (300 F.) for butter loaf cakes 
if it turns golden brown in five minutes; for layer cake 
if it turns in four minutes ; and for angel and sponge 
cake if it turns in seven minutes. (250 F. increasing to 
280 F.) 

Cake may be looked at often provided there is no jar 
when the door is opened and shut. It should not be moved 
until firm enough to prevent falling. Cake is done when 
it shrinks from the sides of pan. Let it remain in pans 
for a few minutes after taking from oven. 

Angel and sponge cakes should be broken, not cut. With 
a sharp knife cut through the crust, then break apart. 

Plain Cake 

i cup butter 3 cups milk 

| cup other shortening 2j quarts flour 
4$ cups sugar 4 tablespoons baking 

12 eggs powder 

3 teaspoons vanilla 

Mix according to general directions. Bake in square 
or oblong shallow pans, in moderate oven, about forty- 
five minutes; in layer cake pans about fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; or in muffin pans about thirty minutes. Spread 
with any desired frosting. 

Cream Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans. Put Cream Filling between layers and powdered 
sugar on top. 



2O4 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Chocolate Cream Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans, and spread Chocolate Cream Filling between layers 
and on top. 

Washington Pie 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans, spread jam or jelly between layers, and sprinkle 
powdered sugar over top. 

White Cake 

i cups butter or butter 4 tablespoons baking 

and other shortening powder 

6 cups sugar I tablespoon vanilla 

3 cups milk 12 egg whites 

2j quarts flour 

Mix according to general directions. Bake in shallow 
square or oblong pans, or in layer cake pans. Spread with 
any desired frosting. 

Spanish Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake, using five teaspoons cinna- 
mon in place of vanilla. Spread with White Mountain 
Cream in which a stick of cinnamon was boiled with the 
sugar and water ; or with Caramel Frosting. 

Walnut Mocha Cake 

Follow recipe for White Cake, using boiled coffee in 
place of milk, and adding two or more cups coarsely- 
chopped walnut meats. Bake in shallow pans. Spread 
with Mocha or Caramel Frosting. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 2O5 

White Nut Cake 

Add three cups walnut or hickory nut meats, chopped 
or cut in pieces, to White Cake mixture. Bake in shallow 
pans. 

Sponge Cake 

i eggs 3 teaspoons vanilla or 

5 cups sugar 2.\ teaspoons lemon extract 

if cups boiling water 5 teaspoons baking 
\ teaspoon salt powder 

5 cups flour 

Sift sugar two or three times; also flour. Beat yolks 
well, add sugar, then boiling water, then flour which has 
been sifted with salt and baking powder. Beat well, and 
then fold in whites which have been beaten until stiff 
and dry. Bake about forty minutes in slow oven. 

Cream Puffs 

2 cups, butter 16 eggs 

i quart boiling water I quart flour 

Put butter and water in saucepan over fire. When butter 
is melted, put flour in all at once, beating vigorously until 
mixture is thoroughly blended and leaves sides of pan. 
Remove from fire, partly cool, add eggs one at a time, 
beating each for some time before adding next. Beat until 
batter is no longer stringy, drop by the spoonful on 
buttered sheets, one and one-half inches apart. Shape 
with handle of spoon as nearly circular as possible, and 
slightly heaped in center. Bake thirty minutes in moderate 
oven. With a sharp knife make a slit in each, and fill with 
Cream or Chocolate Cream Filling, or with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored. 



2O6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Graham Cake 

3 cups sugar i tablespoon cinnamon 

i cups molasses I teaspoon allspice or 

3 cups milk nutmeg 

4^ cups sifted Graham i teaspoon lemon extract 

flour i teaspoon vanilla 

3 cups flour 3 cups raisins 

ij teaspoons soda 3 cups currants 

i teaspoon cloves Citron and nuts if desired 

Sift dry ingredients together. Mix the fruit with some 
of the flour and add after thoroughly mixing the other 
ingredients. Bake in loaves in moderate oven. Keep 
several days before using. 

Bread Cake 

3 pounds light bread dough 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup butter 5 cups sugar 

cup other shortening I teaspoon nutmeg 

6 eggs i teaspoon cloves 

2 cups chopped raisins I teaspoon cinnamon 

Dissolve soda in water. Put all ingredients together in 
mixing pan, mix very thoroughly, using knife or hands. 
Put into long, narrow cake pans, let rise one hour, and 
bake in moderate oven one hour, or until done. 

Gingerbread 

4 cups molasses 4 teaspoons soda 

2 cups boiling water 4 teaspoons ginger 

2j quarts flour 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

i cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons salt 

Add water to molasses. Mix and sift dry ingredients, 
combine mixtures, add shortening, and beat vigorously. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 2OJ 

Bake in well-greased shallow pans in moderate oven forty 
minutes, or until done. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

i quart molasses 2j tablespoons soda 

I quart sour milk 2 tablespoons ginger 

2j quarts flour 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix soda with sour milk and add to molasses. Sift 
together remaining dry ingredients, combine mixtures, 
add shortening, and beat vigorously. Bake in shallow pans 
in moderate oven forty minutes, or until done. 

Molasses Cake 

3 cups molasses 3 teaspoons salt 

3 cups sugar i teaspoon cloves 

2 cups shortening 6 eggs 

3 tablespoons ginger 3 cups boiling water 
2 tablespoons cinnamon 2j quarts flour 

2 tablespoons soda 

Soften shortening with boiling water, add molasses and 
sugar. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add to mixture. 
Stir in beaten eggs and beat vigorously until smooth. Bake 
in shallow pans in moderate oven forty minutes, or until 
done. 

Chocolate Cake I 

Add six ounces melted chocolate, or one and one-half 
cups cocoa, to creamed butter and sugar of Plain Cake. 
Bake in shallow pans in moderate oven, and spread with 
White Mountain Cream or Plain Frosting. 



208 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Chocolate Cake II 

I cup butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 cup other shortening 2 teaspoons soda 

6 cups sugar 4 teaspoons cream tartar 

2 quarts flour 12 eggs 

2 cups milk | cup boiling water 

12 to 1 6 ounces chocolate 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add one cup of sugar, 
and boiling water gradually. Mix and sift dry ingredi- 
ents. Cream butter and remaining sugar, add beaten yolks, 
hot chocolate mixture and vanilla, and flour and milk 
alternately. Fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Pour 
into shallow oblong pans to depth of one inch. Spread 
White Mountain Cream on top. 

Spice Cake 
2 cups shortening 2j quarts flour 

4 cups sugar 2 cups currants 
8 eggs 2 cups raisins 

1 cup sour milk 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 teaspoons soda 2 teaspoons cloves 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons allspice 

Mix according to general directions, adding molasses 
with milk. Bake in shallow oblong pans, or in muffin pans, 
in moderate oven. 

Date Patty Cakes 

ij cups shortening i teaspoon nutmeg 

8 eggs 5 tablespoons baking 

2 cups milk powder 

if quarts flour 2 pounds dates stoned 

5 cups brov/n sugar and cut in pieces 

3 teaspoons cinnamon 



CAKE AND COOKIES 2OO, 

When butter and sugar are partly mixed, add eggs and 
beat until very light. Add milk, flour which has been 
sifted with other ingredients, and dates. Beat hard two 
minutes. Fill muffin pans half full and bake thirty minutes, 
or until done, in moderate oven. 

Plain Drop Cakes 

2 cups sugar 6 scant cups flour 

1 cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons soda 

2 eggs I teaspoon cream of tartar 
2 cups sour milk 2 teaspoons vanilla or 

teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons mace 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix sugar and melted 
shortening, add beaten eggs, and flour and milk alter- 
nately. Drop by the teaspoon ful on greased tins, and 
place raisin on top of each. 

Sugar Cookies 

5 cups flour 5 beaten eggs 

2\ cups sugar 2j teaspoons cream tartar 

ij cups butter ij teaspoons soda 

Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs, then flour 
mixed and sifted with soda and cream of tartar. Roll 
quite thin, cut in small rounds, and bake in moderate oven. 

Jelly Jumbles 

2\ cups butter 2\ teaspoons soda 

5 cups sugar if cups sour milk 

5 eggs ij teaspoons salt 

Cream butter and sugar together, add well-beaten eggs, 
salt, sour milk in which soda has been dissolved, and flour 



210 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to make as soft a dough as can be handled. Chill, roll 
one- fourth inch thick, cut in rounds three inches in 
diameter. Put a teaspoon ful jam or jelly on one-half the 
rounds, and cut three small holes in center of remaining 
pieces. Put pieces together, press the edges slightly, and 
bake in moderate oven. 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 

J cup vegetole or crisco 2 cups flour 
cup butter 2 teaspoons soda 

2 cups brown sugar -J teaspoon salt 

4 eggs -J teaspoon cinnamon 

cup milk teaspoon nutmeg 

4 cups rolled oats teaspoon cloves 

2 cups raisins 2 cups chopped nuts 

Sift dry ingredients together. Cream butter, vegetole, 
and sugar together, add well-beaten eggs, milk, flour, fruit, 
and rolled oats. Drop by the teaspoonf ul, about two inches 
apart, on well-greased pans. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

ij cups sugar 3J teaspoons soda 

2j cups molasses 2j teaspoons salt 

2j cups vegetole, crisco, 4 teaspoons ginger 

or chicken fat 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

ij cups sour milk Flour 

Heat molasses, melt shortening in it, and add sugar. 
Cool, add sour milk, and one quart flour which has been 
sifted with other dry ingredients, then flour to roll as soft 
as can be handled. If chilled for an hour or so, dough 
is more easily handled. Roll about one-third inch thick ; 
bake in moderate oven. The cookies are crisp when fresh. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 211 

Boston Cookies 

i-J cups butter 5 cups flour 

2j cups sugar f teaspoon salt 

4 eggs ij teaspoons cinnamon 

i \ teaspoons soda i cup seeded and chopped 

3 tablespoons hot water raisins 

i cups walnut meats 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and well-beaten eggs. 
Add soda dissolved in hot water, flour mixed and sifted 
with salt and cinnamon, chopped nuts and raisins. Drop 
by spoonfuls one inch apart on greased sheets or dripping 
pans, and bake in moderate oven. 

Sponge Drops 

12 egg whites ij cups flour 

ij cups powdered sugar \ teaspoon salt 
8 egg yolks i teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff and dry, add sugar grad- 
ually, and continue beating. Add flavoring, and yolks of 
eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored. Cut and fold 
in flour mixed with salt. Drop from tip of spoon on un- 
buttered paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and bake 
eight minutes in moderate oven. This recipe makes one 
hundred. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 

Cream Filling 
2j cups sugar 6 eggs 

1 cup flour I-J quarts milk 

| teaspoon salt I teaspoon vanilla 

Mix dry ingredients, add eggs slightly beaten, and 
gradually the scalded milk. Cook fifteen minutes in double 
boiler, stirring constantly until thickened, then occasion- 
ally. Cool and flavor. 

Chocolate Cream Filling 

Melt four ounces chocolate over hot water. Add to 
Cream Filling, using one-half cup more sugar. 

Plain Frosting 

8 cups confectioners' or f cup or more boiling water 
powdered sugar Flavoring 

Add boiling water gradually to sifted sugar, until of 
right consistency to spread, then add flavoring. 

Orange Frosting 

2 yellow oranges Confectioners' or powdered sugar 

Grate rind from oranges, add to it the juice, of which 
there should be about one cup. Let stand for an hour or 
more, strain, and add sifted sugar to make of consistency 
to spread. The yolk of an egg or orange coloring may be 
added to supply lack of color. 

212 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 213 

White Frosting 

8 cups powdered sugar 3 tablespoons lemon 

8 egg whites juice 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and lemon juice, and beat 
five minutes, or until mixture begins to thicken. One 
tablespoon vanilla and two tablespoons water may be used 
in place of lemon juice. 

Mocha Frosting 

2 cups butter -J cup strong boiled or 

8 cups confectioners' sugar filtered coffee 

Wash butter, work until creamy, add sugar gradually, 
beating constantly. As mixture thickens, add coffee, a 
few drops at a time, keeping mixture always of a creamy 
consistency, and using more coffee if needed. 

Cocoa Frosting 

Mix three- fourths cup cocoa and one cup hot milk until 
smooth, bring to boiling point. Follow directions for 
Mocha Frosting, substituting cocoa mixture for coffee, 
and using enough to make frosting of right consistency 
to spread. 

White Mountain Cream 

8 cups granulated sugar 8 egg whites 

2\ cups hot water 2 tablespoons vanilla 

Put sugar and water in saucepan, stir until dissolved, 
boil without stirring to 238 F., or soft ball stage. Pour 
syrup gradually on stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, beating 
constantly, and continue beating until frosting is of right 



214 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

consistency to spread ; add flavoring and spread on cake 
at once. If not beaten long enough, frosting will run: 
if beaten too long, it will be rough. 

Caramel Frosting 

6 cups brown sugar | cup butter 

2 cups thin cream 4 teaspoons vanilla 

Use light brown sugar, or there will be danger of 
curdling. Boil first three ingredients together until waxy 
when dropped in cold water. Add vanilla, set saucepan 
in pan of cold water until frosting is of a consistency to 
spread, beating or not as desired. If frosting is beaten, 
it will be creamy in appearance ; if not beaten, it will be 
transparent. 

Chocolate Frosting 

6 cups sugar 6 squares Baker's chocolate 

3 cups hot water 6 egg yolks beaten thick 
6 teaspoons vanilla and lemon-colored 

Cook sugar, chocolate, and water to soft ball stage, 
then add gradually to beaten yolks, beating constantly. 
Add vanilla and beat until stiff enough to spread. 



MENUS 

THE following menus are taken from the dietary of the 
School of Domestic Science, and are given as suggestive 
of what may be done in the way of variety and simplicity 
at a moderate cost. 

It is our aim to give a simple dietary of varied, nutri- 
tious, and appetizing meals, at a moderate rather than at the 
lowest cost ; and this is made possible by wholesale buying 
in connection with the Young Women's Christian Asso- 
ciation, and by serving on the home table the products of 
the laboratory-practice cookery. Monotony is prevented 
by serving a variety of dishes during a series of days 
rather than at one meal, and by usually avoiding the repe- 
tition of the same dish on the same day of the week. 

The students carry on the work of the home in addition 
to laboratory and classroom requirements, as a part of their 
training, and this often necessitates simplicity of service 
as well as of meals. Hence, soup is never served for 
dinner, coffee seldom, and salad never served as a separate 
course. If fruit is served at breakfast, the cereal is usually 
omitted. 

Butter is served at all meals. One quart of heavy cream 
a day is used, sometimes for breakfast with the cereal, at 
other times for dinner. 



AUTUMN MONTHS 

Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Concord Grapes 
Boston Baked Beans Apple Catsup 

Toast Boston Brown Bread 

Milk Cocoa Coffee 

DINNER 

Hot Boiled Ham Mustard Pickle Mashed Turnip 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes Oatmeal and White Bread 

Chocolate Cream 

LUNCHEON 

Sliced Peaches Bread Cheese Crackers 

Cocoa Tea . Milk 

Boston Cookies 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Cracked Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Baked Apples with Bacon Corn Bread 

LUNCHEON 
Creamed Eggs (sliced) Cold Sliced Ham 

Bread Spice Cake 

Cocoa Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Beefsteak Roll Broiled Potatoes Bechamel Carrots 

Oatmeal and White Bread 

Graham Pudding Sterling Sauce 

216 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 



217 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Cream of Salt Pork 
Cocoa 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Rolled Oats 
Baked Potatoes 
Milk 



Cream and Sugar 
Bran Cakes 
Coffee 



LUNCHEON 
Corn Soup Crackers 

Salmon Salad II Bread 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 

DINNER 

Broiled Beefsteak Baked Potatoes Sliced Tomatoes 

Graham and White Bread 
Scalloped Apples Hard Sauce 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Cream of Wheat Cream and Sugar 

Toast Meat Cakes Chili Sauce German Coffee Bread 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Scalloped Cheese Grape Jelly Graham and White Bread 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

Cream Cake 



DINNER 



Roast Leg of Lamb Spanish Sauce 

Bread 
Norwegian Prune Pudding with Cream 



Peas Austrian Potatoes 



218 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Malt Breakfast Food Milk and Sugar 

Sausage with Glazed Apples Toast Cereal Muffins 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 



LUNCHEON 

Bean Stew Cucumber Pickles 

Cocoa Tea 

Baked Apple Pudding 



Potato Rolls 
Milk 
Nutmeg Sauce 



DINNER 

Braised Beef Brown Gravy 

Baked Winter Squash 
Chocolate Bread Pudding 



Mashed Potatoes 
Bread 
Hard Sauce 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Cream Omelet 
Coffee 



Friday 



BREAKFAST 

Scotch Oatmeal Cream and Sugar 

Toast Cinnamon Rolls 

Milk Cocoa 



Curried Vegetables 
Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Date Patty Cakes 
Tea 



Nut and White Bread 



Milk 



DINNER 

Boiled Salmon Egg Sauce Mock Potato Puff 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad French Dressing Bread 

Caramel Custard with Caramel Sauce 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS ' 219 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Hominy Cream and Sugar 

Hashed Brown Potatoes Toast Batter Bread 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Meat Pie Tomato Relish 

Baked Pears Plain Cake 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Veal Roast Brown Gravy Barberry Jelly 

Steamed Potatoes Spinach Bread 

Baked Apples with Cream 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Apples, Pears and Grapes 

Boston Baked Beans Toast Brown Bread Grape Catsup 
Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Chicken with Stuffing and Gravy Spiced Apple Jelly 

Mashed Potatoes Creamed Celery Bread 

Apricot Charlotte with Whipped Cream 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken Sandwiches Stewed Crab Apples 

White Cake with Chocolate Frosting 



22O RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Sliced Bananas Milk and Sugar 

R6chauff< of Veal on Toast Toast Pop-overs 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 
Lyonnaise Tripe Potato Cakes 

Cocoanut Cake 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Stew with Dumplings Steamed Potatoes Buttered Onions 

Oatmeal and White Bread 

Peach Shortcake 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Pettijohn Cream and Sugar 

Broiled Ham Mustard Sauce Toast Baking Powder Biscuit 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 
Italian Macaroni Oatmeal and White Bread 

Cottage Pudding with Grape Sauce 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Roast Mushroom Sauce Franconia Potatoes 

Cabbage Salad with Boiled Dressing Bread 

Bellevue Pudding Creamy Sauce 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 221 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Rolled Oats Cream and Sugar 

Bacon Toast Corn Cakes 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Roast Beef Chili Sauce Creamed Potatoes 

White and Entire Wheat Bread 

Dutch Apple Cake Vanilla Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Corned Beef with Vegetables Mustard Sauce Steamed Potatoes 

Bread 
Spiced Pudding with Whipped Cream 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Steamed Rice Milk and Sugar 

Broiled Frankfurters with Sliced Tomatoes 

Toast Rye Muffins 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Corned Beef Hash Sliced Cucumbers Brown and White Bread 
Damson Preserves Plain Cake 

DINNER 

Lamb Fricassee with Triangles of Toast Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Beets Bread 

Molasses Cake with Whipped Cream 



222 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Friday 



BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Ralston Breakfast Food Milk and Sugar 

Creamed Dried Beef Toast Buns 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Potato Chowder Crackers Bread 

Sponge Cake Apple Sauce 

Cocoa Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Broiled Bluefish Delmonico Potatoes Tomato Salad Bread 
Washington Pie 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Cream of Wheat Cream and Sugar 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato Toast Graham Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Creamed Fish Baked Potatoes Bread 

Plain Cookies Pear Marmalade 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Tongue Piquante Sauce Potato Puff Buttered Cauliflower 

Rye and White Bread 
Apple Pie Cheese 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 223 



WINTER MONTHS 

Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Apples and Bananas 
Boston Baked Beans Cider Apple Sauce Toast 

Boston Brown Bread 
Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Turkey Mashed Potato Celery Cranberry Sauce Bread 
Nut Pudding Sunshine Sauce 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Turkey Bread and Butter Sandwiches Grape Butter 

Plain Cake with Caramel Frosting 
Cocoa Milk Tea 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Puffed Rice Shredded Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Poached Eggs with Minced Tongue Drop Biscuit 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese Cream Toast with Bacon Entire Wheat Bread 

Bread Cake 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Loaf Brown Sauce Turnips New York Style 

Scalloped Potatoes Bread 

Caramel Bread Pudding 



224 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Shredded Wheat 

Codfish Balls 
Coffee 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Wheat Germ 
Toast 
Milk 



Milk and Sugar 
Corn Bread 
Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Meat Croquettes with Brown Sauce 

Gingerbread 
Tea Milk 



Peas 



Bread 



Cocoa 



DINNER 

Roast Pork Baked Potatoes 

Bread 
Prune Whip with Soft Custard Sauce 



Spiced Apples 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Wheatena with Dates Cream and Sugar 

Tripe in Batter Toast Raised Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Lima Bean Soup Crackers 

Doughnuts Coffee 



Bread 



DINNER 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb Maitre d'H6tel Potatoes Baked Bananas 

Bread 



Ginger Ice Cream 



Wafers 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 



225 



Thursday 



BREAKFAST 

Old Grist Mill Milk and Sugar 

Scrapple Toast Entire Wheat Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Mexican Chili Crackers Cucumber Pickles 

Baked Blackberry Pudding 



Bread 



DINNER 

Braised Liver Lyonnaise String Beans Hongroise Potatoes 

Oatmeal and White Bread 

Pumpkin Pie 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Spanish Omelet 
Coffee 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Force 
Toast 
Milk 



Cream and Sugar 
Blueberry Muffins 
Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Mashed Potato Baked Sausage Rye Bread 

Molasses Cookies Hot Apple Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 



DINNER 

Broiled Haddock with Maitre d'Hotel Butter Macaroni and Cheese 

Apple and Celery Salad with Cream Dressing Bread 

Lemon Pie 



226 RECIPES. AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat with Canned Peaches and Cream 

Frizzled Dried Beef Toast Cereal Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Pressed Corned Beef Lyonnaise Potatoes Mustard Bread 

Rye Drop Cakes Caramel Syrup 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Baked Ham Stemmed Sweet Potatoes Creamed White Turnips 
Graham and White Bread 

Peach Shortcake with Cream 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges 
Boston Baked Beans Catsup Boston Brown Bread 

Toast Doughnuts 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Chicken a la Jardiniere Boiled Rice Cranberry Jelly 

Corn Oysters Bread 

Pineapple Delicious After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster Stew Crackers 

Graham Cake Canned Peaches 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 22/ 

) 

Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded "Wheat Stewed Prunes Cream 

Fried Oatmeal Mush with Bacon German Coffee Bread 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Corn Chowder Crackers Bread 

Blueberry Shortcake 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Roast Brown Gravy Franconia Potatoes Apple Chutney 

Bread 

Creamed Carrots and Turnips 
Orange Marmalade Pudding 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Farina Cream and Sugar 

Creamed Ham and Eggs Toast Graham Gems 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Roast Beef Creamed Rice or Carrots and Turnips Bread 

Jelly Jumbles 
Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Spanish Stew Riced Potato Saut6d Parsnips Bread 

Chocolate Cream Cake After-Dinner Coffee 



228 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Force with Stewed Figs and Cream 

Milk Toast Orange Marmalade Bran Cakes 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters and Celery on Toast Jelly Graham and White Bread 

Cranberry Tarts 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Beefsteak Fried Onions Spanish Potatoes Bread 
Alaskan Combination 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Toasted Corn Flakes Cream and Sugar 

Creamed Finnan Haddie Toast Plain Muffins 

Cotfee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Liver Loaf Tomato Sauce White and Oatmeal Bread 

Apple Ginger Baronet Biscuit 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Lamb Chops Potato Puff Lima Beans with Cream Jelly 

Bread 
Stewed Figs with Cream 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 



22 9 



Friday 

^ 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Corn Meal Mush Milk and Sugar 

Minced Meat on Toast Chili Sauce Rocks 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Creole Spaghetti Bread 

Canned Pears Spanish Cake 

Cocoa Milk Tea 



Boiled Cod 



DINNER 

Drawn Butter Sauce 
Bread 
Mince Pie 



Spanish Rice 



Peas 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Malt Breakfast Food Cream and Sugar 

Apples Baked with Sausage Toast Pop-overs 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 



Fish Chowder 
Tea 



LUNCHEON 

Crackers 
Molasses Cake 
Milk 



Bread 



Cocoa 



Roast Leg of Lamb 



DINNER 

Creamed Potatoes 
Peach Custard 



Mint Sherbet 



23 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 
Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Grapefruit 

Poached Eggs with Cream Toast Parker House Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

DINNER 

Mock Birds Buttered Asparagus Mock Potato Puff Bread 
Prune Jelly Whipped Cream After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese and Date Salad Crackers Bread 

Chocolate Cake Grape Preserve 

Tea Milk 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Toasted Corn Flakes with Sliced Bananas and Milk 

Corn Oysters with Bacon Toast Corn Cakes 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Vegetable Soup Crackers Bread 

Blueberry Shortcake 

DINNER 

Braised Beef with Vegetables as Garnish Spinach Steamed Potatoes 
Coffee Jelly with Cream and Sugar 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 23! 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Cream of Wheat Shredded Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Meat Souffle Stewed Rhubarb Toast 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 
Potato Salad Peanut Sandwiches 

Cocoanut Cake 
Tea Milk Cocoa (if a cold day) 

DINNER 

B&rbecued Ham Hongroise Potatoes Buttered Scullions on Toast 
Vanilla Ice Cream with Chocolate Sauce 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Dates Milk and Sugar 

Boiled Eggs Toast Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cream of Tomato Toast Bread 

Baking Powder Biscuit with Maple Syrup 

Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Broiled Steak French Fried Potatoes Dandelion Greens Bread 
Strawberry Shortcake 



232 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Rhubarb and Figs 

Lamb Chops Toast Plain Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 
Cold Sliced Ham Creamed Asparagus 

Tea Milk 

Marshmallow Gingerbread 

DINNER 

Roast Veal Mashed Potatoes Pineapple and Cheese Salad Bread 
Scalloped Rhubarb Hard Sauce 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat with Canned Peaches and Cream 

Kippered Herring Toast Raised Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Egg and Peas Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing Ham Sandwiches 

Cottage Pudding Strawberry Sauce 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Broiled Mackerel Creamed Rice Cucumber Salad Bread 
Baked Custard 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 233 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Cream of Wheat Molded with Dates Cream and Sugar 

Baked Eggs Toast Graham Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Mexican Ragout Potato Cakes Bread 

Rusks Pear Marmalade Coffee 

DINNER 

Corned Beef Maitre d'H6tel Cabbage Delmonico Potatoes Bread 
Fruit Sherbet Wafers 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Strawberries with Powdered Sugar 

Boston Baked Beans Chili Sauce Boston Brown Bread with Raisins 
Coffee Toast Milk 

DINNER 

Chicken Ragout Boiled Rice Buttered Asparagus on Toast 

Pineapple Jelly After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Canned Red Cherry and Cheese Salad with French Dressing 
Crackers Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Mocha Nut Cake 
Cocoa Tea Milk 



234 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Malt Breakfast Food Milk and Sugar 

Broiled Ham Plain Toast German Toast with Maple Syrup 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Creamed Corned Beef Radishes 

Raspberries Plain Cookies 

Tea Milk 

, .' 

DINNER 

Beef Roast with Yorkshire Pudding Boiled Potatoes Spinach 
Snowballs with Cherry Sauce 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Pettijohn's Breakfast Food Cream and Sugar 

Creamed Chicken on Toast Jelly Toast Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Roast Beef Horseradish Sauce Boiled New Potatoes 

Iced Tea Cake with Cocoa Frosting Milk 

DINNER 

Beef Tongue with Tomato Sauce Buttered Potatoes New Carrots 
Raspberry Shortcake 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 235 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Puffed Rice Cream and Sugar 

Boiled Eggs i Toast Cereal Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Corn Soup Crackers Bread 

Banana Salad with Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Sandwiches Coffee 

DINNER 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb Mint Sauce Boiled New Potatoes 

New Peas 
Vanilla Ice Cream with Maple Sauce 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupe 

Cracked Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Bacon Toast Cinnamon Rolls Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Veal or Meat Loaf New Potatoes Creamed Bread 

Raspberries and Cream 

Iced Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Steak New Potatoes Boiled and Sauted in Pork Fat 

Beet Greens with Garnish of New Beets 

Blueberry Pie 



236 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Gooseberries 

Cream of Corn on Toast with Bacon Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Baked Mince with Eggs Rye Bread 

Spice Cake 
Iced Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Broiled Cod or Haddock Samp with Cheese 

Cucumber and Radish Salad 
Caramel Custard with Caramel Sauce 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Blueberries Cream and Sugar 

Poached Eggs with Bacon Toast 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Meat Croquettes with Cream Sauce and Peas Bread 

Sponge Cake Berries or Strawberry Jam 

Iced Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Veal Roast Buttered New Potatoes Spinach with Hard-cooked Eggs 
Cantaloupe or Watermelon 



Bibliography 



The Boston Cooking School 

Cook Book 

A New Book of Cookery 
What to Have for Dinner 
Home Science Cook Book 
The Boston Cook Book 
Institution Recipes 
Lowney's Cook Book 
The Complete Cook Book 
The New Hostess of Today 
The Century Cook Book 
Practical Cooking and Serving 
New Cook Book 
The Fireless Cook Book 



Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Mary J. Lincoln and Anna Barrows 

Mary J. Lincoln 

Emma Smedley 

Maria Willett Howard 

Marion Harland 

Linda Hull Larned 

Mary Ronald 

Janet McKenzie Hill 

Sarah T. Rorer 

Margaret J. Mitchell 



237 



INDEX 



Alaskan Combination, 199 
Apple Catsup, 9 

Charlotte, 182 

Compote, 2 

Dumplings, 177 

Fritters, 32 

Marmalade, 8 

Sauce I, i 

Sauce II, i 
Cider, 2 
Green, 2 

Tapioca, 172 
Apples, Baked, i 

Fried, 4 

Glazed, 3 

Scalloped, 182 

Spiced, 3 
Apricot Charlotte, 196 

Sherbet, 200 
Apricots, Stewed, 4 
Asparagus, Boiled, 134 

Creamed, 135 

Bacon, 103 

Baked Mince, 120 

Baking Powder, to make, 22 

Bananas, Baked, 4 

Sliced, 5 
Bean Stew, 69 
Beans, Boston Baked, 135 
Spanish, 137 
Stewed Lima, 136 
with Cream, 136 
with Tomato, 136 
String, Buttered, 137 
Canned, 137 
a la Lyonnaise, 138 



Beef, Braised, 86 

Corned, 87 

Creamed Corned, 113 

Creamed Dried, 114 

Frizzled Dried, 114 

Hash, 1 20 

Loaf, 90 

a la Paysanne, 91 

Pressed, 87 

Roast, 85 

Souffle, 118 

Stew, 89 

Steak, Broiled, 83 
with Onions, 83 
Roll, 84 
Beets, Boiled, 138 

Savory, 138 
Beverages, 49 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 29 

Drop, 29 

Entire Wheat, 30 

Squash, 18 
Blanc Mange, Chocolate, 190 

Plain, 190 
Boiled Dinner, 87 
Bran Cakes, 25 
Bread, n 

General Directions for, 12 

Batter, 26 

Boston Brown, 28 

Corn, 26 

Date, 15 

Entire Wheat, 15 

German Coffee, 20 

Graham, 14 

Oatmeal, 16 

Potato, 14 



239 



240 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Bread, Quick Nut, 27 

Rye, is 

to make with Mixer, 13 

White, 13 

Brussels Sprouts, 139 
Buns, 19 

Hot Cross, 20 



Cabbage, Maitre d'Hotel, 139 

Salad, 163 

Scalloped, 139 
Cake, General Directions for, 202 

Bread, 206 

Chocolate I, 207 

Chocolate II, 208 

Chocolate Cream, 204 

Cream, 203 

Graham, 206 

Molasses, 207 

Plain, 203 

Spanish, 204 

Spice, 208 

Sponge, 205 

Walnut Mocha, 204 

White, 204 

White Nut, 205 
Cake Fillings, Cream, 212 

Chocolate Cream, 212 
Cakes, Plain Drop, 209 
Carrots, Bechamel, 141 

Boiled, 140 

Creamed with Turnips, 140 

German, 141 
Cauliflower, Buttered, 142 

Creamed, 142 
Celery, Creamed, 142 
Cereals, Methods of Cooking, 38 

Methods of Serving, 39 

Table for Cooking, 39 
Cheese, Cream Toast, 157 

Fondue, 156 

Scalloped, 156 
Chicken, Broiled, 108 

Creamed, 114 



Chicken, Creole, no 

Croquettes, 123 

Fricassee, no 

Fried, 108 

a la Jardiniere, 109 

Pie, in 

Ragout, 116 

Roast, 1 06 

Smothered, 108 

Souffle, 117 

Stew, 109 
Chocolate Cream, 192 

Reception, 51 
Chops, Baked Lamb, 94 

Broiled, 93 

Pan-Broiled, 94 

Pork, 101 
Chowder, Clam, 68 

Corn, 67 

Fish, 68 

Potato, 67 

Cider Apple Sauce, 2 
Clam Chowder, 68 
Clams, Scalloped, 78 

Steamed, 78 
Cocoa, Breakfast, 50 

Reception, 51 
Coffee, After-Dinner, 49 

Breakfast, 49 
Cold Slaw, 140 
Cookies, Boston, 211 

Oatmeal Drop, 210 

Soft Molasses, 210 

Sugar, 209 

Corn Cakes, Golden, 27 
Corn Chowder, 67 

on Cob, 142 

Oysters, 143 

Pudding, 143 

Scalloped, 143 
Corned Beef Hash, 119 
Cottage Pie, 118 

Pudding, 179 

Crab Apple, Spiced Jelly, 10 
Crabs, 79 



INDEX 



241 



Cranberry Frappe, 198 

Jelly, 5 

Sauce, 5 

Tart Filling, 171 
Cream Puffs, 205 
Cream Tapioca, 194 
Creole Spaghetti, 48 
Croquettes, 122 

Chicken, 123 

Sweet Potato, 155 

Veal, 123 
Croutons, 34 
Crumbs, 34 

Buttered, 34 
Cucumbers, 142 
Custard, Baked, 189 

Caramel, 189 

Peach, 192 



Date Patty Cakes, 208 

Dates, 5 

Doughnuts, Raised, 21 
with Sour Milk, 31 
with Sweet Milk, 31 

Dried Apples with Peaches, 4 

Duck, Roast, in 

Dumplings, 89 
Apple, 177 

Dutch Apple Cake, 178 



Eggplant, 144 
Egg Roll, 177 
Eggs, Baked, 54 
Creamed, 57 
Curried, 57 
Fried, 54 
Poached, 53 

with Cream Toast, 55 
with Minced Tongue, 54 
Scalloped with Peas, 58 
Scrambled, 57 

with Tomato, 56 
Soft-Cooked, 53 



Fig Tapioca, 193 
Figs and Rhubarb, 6 

Stewed, 6 
Finnan Haddie, Buttered, 76 

Creamed, 124 
Fish, 71 

Baked with Stuffing, 73 
without Stuffing, 74 

Boiled, 72 

Broiled, 73 

Chowder, 68 

to Clean, 71 

Cooking and Serving, 72 

Creamed Salt Cod, 125 

Croquettes, 124 

Fried, 75 

Hash, 125 

Scalloped, 124 

to Skin, 71 

Steamed, 72 

Stuffing for, 74 
Oyster, 74 

Time-table for Cooking, 8a 

when in Season, 71 
Flageolets, 137 
Flour, Bread and Pastry, n 
Frankfurters, 104 
Frappe, Cranberry, 198 

Grape, 199 
Fritter Batter, 32 
Fritters, Apple, 32 

Hominy, 33 

Rice, 32 
Frosting, Caramel, 214 

Chocolate, 214 

Cocoa, 213 

Mocha, 213 

Orange, 212 

Plain, 212 

White, 213 

White Mountain Cream, 213 
Fruit Jelly, 194 

Puffs, 178 

Punch, 52 

Salad, 165 



242 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Gingerbread, 206 
Sour Milk, 207 

Gnocchi, 42 

Goose, Roast, in 

Gooseberries, Stewed, 6 

Graham Gems, 25 

Grape Catsup, 9 

Grapes, Spiced, 8 

Gravy, Brown, 8$ 
Chicken, 108 

Green Apple Sauce, 2 

Greens, 144 

Griddle Cakes, Rice, 23 
with Sour Milk, ra 
with Sweet Milk, 23 

Halibut a la Creole, 75 
Ham, Baked, 102 

Barbecued, 102 

Boiled, 1 02 

Broiled, 103 

Fried, 103 

Hash, 122 
Hamburg Steak, 84 
Hash, Beef, 120 

Corned Beef, 119 

Fish, 125 

Ham, 122 

Vegetable, 120 
Hominy, Baked, 42 

Fritters, 33 

Ice Cream, Caramel, 201 

Chocolate, 201 

Ginger, 200 

Vanilla, 200 
Ices, Lemon, 197 

Orange, 198 

Strawberry, 198 
Irish Stew, 96 

Jelly, Coffee, 195 
Fruit, 194 
Lemon, 194 



Jelly, Orange, 194 

Pineapple, 195 

Prune, 195 

Spiced Crab Apple, 10 
Jelly Jumbles, 209 

Kippered Herring, 76 

Lamb, Fricassee of, 97 

Roast, 94 

Shoulder, 95 

Stew, 96 
Lamb Chops, Baked, 94 

Broiled, 93 

Pan-Broiled, 94 
Lemonade, 51 
Liver with Bacon, 91 

Braised, 92 

Loaf, 91 
Lobster, Creamed, 79 

Deviled, 79 

Scalloped, 79 

Macaroni, Boiled, 43 

with Cheese, 44 

with Chicken, 46 

Creamed, 43 

with Eggs, 47 

Italian, 45 

a la Milanaise, 46 

with Peanut Butter, 44 

with Tomato Sauce, 46 
Meat Cakes, 121 

Casserole of Rice and, 117 

Croquettes, 123 

Left-overs, 113 

Minced, 121 
v-Pie, 118 

Rechauffe of, 115 
Meats, 8 1 

Time-table for Cooking, 82 
Mexican Chili, 69 

Ragout, 116 
Mince Meat, 171 



INDEX 



243 



Mock Birds, 99 
Muffins, Blueberry, 27 

Cereal, 24 

English, 1 8 

Entire Wheat, 25 

Graham, 25 

Plain, 24 

Raised, 18 

Rye, 25 

Mushes, Fried, 39 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 94 

Braised Leg of, 95 

a la Creole, 115 

Curry, 115 

Noodles, 48 

with Cheese, 47 

Omelet, Bread, 55 

Cream, 55 

Rice, 56 

Spanish, 56 
Onions, Boiled, 144 

Creamed, 145 

Sauted, 145 

Scalloped, 145 
Orange Ice, 198 

Jelly, 194 

Marmalade, 8 
Oyster Stew, 66 
Oysters, Creamed, 77 

Fried, 77 

Panned, 77 

to Parboil, 76 

Raw, 76 

Scalloped, 78 

Parsnip Stew, 70 

Parsnips, with Drawn Butter 

Sauce, 145 
Sauted, 146 
Paste, Plain, 168 
Peach Custard, 192 
Pears, Baked, 7 



Peas, Canned, 146 
Peppers, Stuffed, 146 
Philadelphia Relish, 130 
Pie, Apple, 168 

Blackberry, 170 

Blueberry, 170 

Custard, 170 

Lemon, 169 

Mince, 171 

Mock Cherry, 170 

Pumpkin, 169 

Raspberry, 170 

Washington, 204 
Pineapple Delicious, 194 
Pop-overs, 22 
Potato Chowder, 67 
Potatoes, Austrian, 151 

Baked, 151 

with Bacon, 153 

Broiled, 154 

Cakes, 151 

Creamed, 149 
with Eggs, 150 

Delmonico, 151 

Franconia, 153 

Hashed Brown, 150 

Hongroise, 152 

Lyonnaise, 150 

Maitre d'Hotel, 154 

Mashed, 152 

Mock Puff, 153 

Scalloped, 153 
Pork Chops, 101 
Pork, Cream of Salt, 104 

Crisp Salt, 105 

Roast, 1 02 
Poultry, to Clean, 105 

to Select, 105 

to Stuff, 1 06 
Prune Whip, 175 
Prunes, Stewed, 7 
Pudding, Baked Apple, 178 

Baked Chocolate, 176 

Bellevue, 181 

Caramel Bread, 174 



244 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Pudding, Caramel, 191 
Chocolate Bread, 175 
Cottage, 179 
Cracker, 173 
Cream of Rice, 173 
English Plum, 181 
Graham, 180 
Honeycomb, 176 
Indian, 173 
Norwegian, 191 
Nut, 181 

Orange Marmalade, 174 
Prune, 172 

Ribbon Cornstarch, 190 
Snow, 196 
Spiced, 175 
Steamed, 179 
Suet, 1 80 

Rabbit Stew, 112 
Raisins, Stewed, 8 
Rhubarb, Baked, 7 

Scalloped, 182 

Stewed, 7 
Rice, Boiled, 40 

with Cheese, 41 

Creamed, 40 

Curried, 41 

Fritters, 32 

Spanish, 40 

with Tomato, 41 
Rocks, 29 
Rolls, Cinnamon, 30 

Parker House, 17 

Plain, 1 6 

Potato, 19 

Squash, 18 

Swedish, 20 
Rusks, 17 
Rye Drop Cakes, 32 

Salads, Apple and Celery, 162 
Apple and Banana, 162 
Banana and Nut, 162 



Salads, Cabbage, 163 

Cabbage and Celery, 163 

Cheese, 163 

Cheese and Pineapple, 164 

Chicken, 164 

Cucumber, 162 

Daisy, 164 

Egg, 165 

Fruit, 165 

Macedoine, 165 

Potato, 1 66 

Salmon, I, II, 167 

Tomato, 165 

Uplands, 163 
Salad Dressing, Boiled, 159 

Cream, 159 

French, 160 
Cream, 160 
Creole, 160 

Mayonnaise, 161 
Cream, 161 

Sour Cream, 159 
Sally Lunn, 28 
Salmon Loaf, 125 

Surprise, 126 
Samp, Baltimore, 43 
Sauces for Meat, Bechamel, 130 

Brown, 128 

Cucumber, 131 

Currant Jelly, 130 

Drawn Butter, 128 

Egg, 128 

Horseradish, 131 

Maitre d'Hotel, 131 

Mint, 132 

Mushroom, 128 

Mustard, 132 

Philadelphia Relish, 130 

Pickle, 128 

Piquante, 129 

Spanish, 129 

Tartare, 131 

Tomato, 129 

Highly Seasoned, 129 

White, I, II, III, 127 



INDEX 



245 



Sauces for Pudding, Apricot, 184 

Caramel, 185 

Chocolate I, II, 184 

Cream, 185 

Creamy, 185 

Foamy, 185 

Fruit, 1 86 

Grape, 186 

Hard, 1 86 

Lemon, 186 

Nutmeg, 187 

Orange, 187 

Soft Custard, 188 

Sterling, 188 

Strawberry, 187 

Sunshine, 187 

Vanilla, 187 
Sausages, 103 
Scallops, Deviled, 80 

Fried, 80 

Scalloped, 80 
Scrapple, 104 
Sherbet, Apricot, 200 

Fruit, 199 

Milk, 199 

Mint, 198 

Tapioca, 192 
Shortcake, Peach, 180 

Strawberry, 179 
Shrimps, 79 
Soup, Baked Bean, 65 

Bouillon, 60 

Celery, 62 

Chicken, 60 

to Clear, 60 

Corn, 63 

Cream of Cabbage, 63 
Cheese, 65 
Green Pea, 63 
Tomato, 66 

Lima Bean, 64 

Potato, 62 

Split Pea, 64 

Stock, 59, 60 

Tomato, 65 



Soup, Turkey, 60 

Vegetable, 61 
Spaghetti, Creole, 45 
Spanish Stew, 90 
Sponge Drops, 211 
Squash, Winter, 147 
String Beans, Buttered, 137 

Canned, 137 

a la Lyonnaise, 138 
Stuffing for Duck, 112 

for Goose, in 

Oyster, 107 

Plain, 107 

for Veal, 98 
Succotash, 147 
Sweet Potatoes, Croquettes, 155 

Glazed, 154 



Tapioca, Apple, 172 

Cream, 193 

Fig, 193 

Sherbet, 192 
Tea, 50 

Iced, 50 

Time-table for Cooking Meats 
and Fish, 82 

for Cooking Vegetables, 134 
Toast, Brown, 33 

Cinnamon, 37 

Cream, 35 

Dry, 33 

French, 35 

German, 35 

Hygienic, 33 

Milk, 35 

Oyster and Celery, 36 

Savory, 37 

Tomato, 36 
Tomato Relish, 9 
Tomatoes, Baked, 36 

Scalloped, 148 
Tongue, Boiled, 88 

Braised, 88 



2 4 6 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Tripe in Batter, 92 

a la Creole, 93 

Lyonnaise, 93 
Turkey, Roast, 106 
Turkish Pilaf, 42 
Turnips, New York Style, 148 

Scalloped, 148 

Veal, Braised Shoulder of, 98 
Croquettes, 123 
Fricassee of, 98 
Fricassee with Tomato, 99 
Hearts, 100 



Veal, Loaf I, II, 100 

Roast Shoulder of, 97 

Souffle, 117 

Stew, 99 
Vegetables, Curried, 149 

General Directions for, 133 

Hash, 1 20 

Macedoine of, 149 

Waffles, 23 

Yeast, Liquid, 13 
Yorkshire Pudding, 86 



4^7273 
4.7273 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



I 





4 


mm ijMA«T.A«wcuLTy«K (Hen, , 




r-^f 



Ci- ^'l 



-^i 



S 



I..- 



\ 



/ 



Recipes and Menus for Fifty 

as used in 

The School of Domestic Science 

of 

The Boston Young Women's 
Christian Association 



Prepared by 
FRANCES LOWE SMITH 




■J J J -i 



WHITCOMB & BARROWS 

BOSTON 1920 



/ 



•T 









Copyright 1913 
By Whitcomb & Barrows 

Reprinted September, 191 5 

August, 1 91 7 

March, 191 9 

January, 1920 



• • • • • 
••••*.•• .•• • , *•• • •** * J" 



PREFACE 

The object in publishing this collection of recipes and 
menus is twofold — to put them in a convenient and 
accessible form for our own graduates, who find them 
invaluable in their various fields of work, and for others 
who need tried and definite recipes for use in small 
institutions. 

This is not a complete cook book, although it furnishes 
material for a sufficiently varied menu. The recipes are 
those used by students in the preparation of meals in the 
school-home kitchen, as distinct from the laboratory; 
and have been collected and adapted, during a period of 
eleven years, from various sources — from personal experi- 
ments, from the school laboratory recipes, from student- 
matrons, and from numerous cook books. 

The recipes are given just as used in the kitchen of the 
School of Domestic Science, but a word of explanation 
is necessary. Our students are women, living an indoor, 
semi-sedentary life, and are comparatively light eaters. 
The conditions also are such that it is possible to plan more 
closely as to quantities than is usually practicable else- 
where. For these reasons, the quantities given will some- 
times be insufficient for families of the same size; and 
again will be just right for smaller numbers — as, for 
instance, summer camps, boys' schools, or college halls. 

It is a pleasure to me to express my thanks for the hearty 
cooperation of principal and students in this undertaking, 
and for the invaluable help, inspiration, and encourage- 

• •• 
Ul 

I 

417273 



i 



IV PREFACE 

ment of those whose teachings and writings have made 
the work possible — to Miss Harriet Folger, my instructor 
in the School of Domestic Science; to Miss Mary Mac- 
Dermaid, the present instructor in cookery ; and to Miss 
Anna Barrows and Miss Fannie Merritt Farmer, authors 
and lecture-demonstrators. f. l. s. 



FOREWORD 

As I begin to write this brief foreword, several memory 
pictures come before me. 

I see the bending shoulders and anxious forehead of a 
student, who, having a few spare minutes, grudgingly 
spends them in the drudgery of copying recipes. But the 
recipes may be her future stock in trade, so there is no 
alternative. 

I am showing a visitor through the school. She is the 
able manager of a large restaurant and practiced efficiency 
engineering long before the term became common. We 
pass through the home kitchen and instantly her keen eye 
and quick hand are upon the open recipe box being used 
by some student. "Oh, splendid!" she exclaims; "how I 
wish these specific and complete directions could be in the 
hands of the many who need them !" 

I am sitting in my office. A recent graduate has come 
back to the school and is telling me of her first experi- 
ences. Engaged to teach in the high school of a small city, 
what was her surprise to be told upon arrival that she 
was also to superintend and to be responsible for the mid- 
day meal in the outdoor school of fifty anaemic children. 
"But I was equal to the situation. Miss Forehand," she 
said; "I had copied the home recipes." 

So the book is published, that tired students may 
escape copying, that those who can use the recipes and 
menus may find them accessible, and that the tool wielded 
so many years by Miss Smith for the school's success may 
be put in permanent form. 

A. Josephine Forehand^ Principal. 



CONTENTS 

Weights and Measures ix 

Fruits i 

Bread ii 

Quick Doughs 22 

Cereals 38 

Beverages . • • . • • • • 49 

Eggs 53 

Soups 59 

Fish .71 

Meats 81 

Sauces for Meats and Fish . . • .127 

Vegetables 133 

Cheese Dishes 156 

Salads and Salad Dressings • • • • 158 

Pastry 168 

Hot Desserts 172 

Pudding Sauces 184 

Cold Desserts 189 

Frozen Desserts 197 

Cake and Cookies ..•••. 202 

Cake Fillings and Frostings . • . • 212 

Menus 215 

Bibliography 237 

Index • • • • 239 



vfi 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Correct measurements are absolutely essential to suc- 
cessful cookery, and these are possible to inexperienced 
cooks only by following certain definite rules. 

All measures in this book are level. Half-pint measur- 
ing cupSy pint and quart measures, and teaspoons and 
tablespoons of regulation size are used. 

Flour is sifted before measuring, then sifted again with 
other dry ingredients except sugar. To measure dry in- 
gredients, fill measure rounding full with a spoon or scoop, 
without shaking, and level with a knife. To measure butter 
and similar ingredients, pack spoon, cup, or other measure 
solidly, and level with a knife. 

Weights are more accurate, and in some cases more 
convenient, than measures, and there should be in every 
kitchen a dial scale of several pounds capacity, and in 
institutional kitchens a platform scale for meats and bulky 
provisions. 

Table of Weights and Measures 

3 teaspoons = i tablespoon 
l6 tablespoons = i cup 

4 cups = I quart 
4 quarts = i gallon 
8 quarts = i peck 
4 pecks = I bushel 

i6 ounces = I pound 

iz 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



2 


tablespoons butter 


— 


I otince 


2 


cups butter or lard 


— 


I pound 


2 


tablespoons sugar 


— ; 


I oimce 


2 


cups granulated sugar 


= 


I pound 


2i 


cups powdered sugar 


= 


I pound 


2i 


cups brown sugar 


— 


I pound 


4 


tablespoons flour 


— ] 


[ ounce 


4 


cups flour 


^^ 


I pound 


5i 


cups coffee 


= ; 


[ pound 


2 


quarts tea 


— ] 


[ pound 


8 


tgg whites 


— ] 


[ cup 


i6 


tgg yolks 


::= : 


[ cup 


lO 


medium eggs without shell 


^= J 


[ pound 


2 


cups chopped meat 


— : 


[ pound 


4 


cups cocoa 


— ; 


[ pound 


3 


cups currants or raisins 


— ; 


[ pound 


6o 


pounds potatoes 


nz 


[ bushel 


52 


pounds onions 


— ] 


[ bushel 


24 


pounds string beans 


= ] 


[ bushel 


56 


pounds tomatoes 


= ] 


[ bushel 


55 


pounds turnips 


— ] 


[ bushel 


54 


pounds sweet potatoes 


— ] 


[ bushel 


45 


pounds parsnips 


= : 


[ bushel 


50 


pounds carrots 


— ] 


[ bushel 


60 


pounds beets 


— ] 


[ bushel 


60 


pounds beans 


r= ] 


[ bushel 


48 


pounds apples 


— ] 


[ bushel 


96' 


pounds 


■-^ 


[ barrel 



• • •• • • ••• ••• • •- 



FRUITS 

Baked Apples 

50 medium sized apples i^ teaspoons cinnamon or 
i| quarts sugar i cup butter if desired 

Wash and core apples, and, if skins are tough, pare 
upper half. Place in agate dripping pans, skin down, and 
fill cores with sugar. Cinnamon should be mixed with 
sugar. If butter is used, put bits on top of sugar. Put 
hot water in bottom of pans to depth of about one inch. 
Bake in moderately hot oven until quite soft. It is better 
that they should lose their shape than be underdone. The 
length of time depends wholly upon kind of apple, but 
allow an hour or more. Serve hot or cold, with or with- 
out cream. If apples are very tart, or if they are to be 
used for dessert, more sugar will be required. 

Apple Sauce I 

16 pounds (impedes) tart, 2 quarts water 
juicy apples i teaspoon salt 

2 quarts sugar Spice or lemon if desired 

Wash, pare, and core apples ; add water and cook until 
soft. Put through puree strainer, add salt and sugar, and 
serve hot or cold. 

Apple Sauce II 

12 pounds tart, red, 2 quarts water 
juicy apples i teaspoon salt 

li quarts sugar i^ teaspoons cinnamon 



• • ••.••• 



• • • 

• • • 



2 .•/. : :/: ^'fJECipp^ /tNjy.M^us for fifty 

Wash, quarter, and core apples; add water and cook 
until soft. Put through puree strainer, add salt, sugar, 
and cinnamon. Serve with pork. 

Apple Compote 

i8 pounds tart apples i teaspoon cloves 
3 quarts sugar i teaspoon salt 

ij quarts water i large lemon 

Wash, pare, and core apples ; cut in halves or quarters. 
Cut lemon in slices and each slice in quarters. Bring sugar 
and water to boiling point, add lemon, salt, and cloves, 
then turn in prepared apples. Bring to boiling point and 
cook in fireless cooker six or eight hours. They should 
be red and unbroken. Lift out carefully the pieces of 
apple and pour over them the juice, which should jelly 
slightly. If necessary, juice can be cooked down more 
before pouring over apples. Serve very cold for dessert, 
with or without cream. 

Cider Apple Sauce 

i6 pounds tart apples i quart boiled cider 
2 quarts sugar i quart water 

Pare, quarter, and core apples; add cider, water, and 
sugar. Cover and cook slowly four or five hours. As 
amount of sugar varies with kind of apple used, it is well 
not to put in all the sugar at first. The sauce should be 
thick, mahogany red, and a little tart Serve with meat. 
Cinnamon is sometimes added. 

Green Apple Sauce 

1 6 pounds g^een apples 2 quarts water 
2 quarts sugar 6 tablespoons butter 

I teaspoon salt Almond extract 



FRUITS 3 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core green apples. Add water 
and cook until soft, stirring often to prevent burning. 
Add more water if needed, as amount required varies with 
kind and age of apple. Rub through puree strainer, add 
salt, butter, and sugar, using more sugar if desired. Flavor 
sparingly with almond extract 

Spiced Apples 

12 pounds tart apples 2^ teaspoons cinnamon 
I quart water i teaspoon ground cloves 

5 cups sugar i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons butter 

Wash, halve, core, and quarter or cut crosswise in one- 
fourth inch slices Baldwin or other tart red apples. Put 
apples, and sugar mixed with seasonings, in fireless cooker 
kettle in layers, dot with butter, pour over hot water, bring 
to boiling point on range, and cook four or five hours in 
cooker. Or put into stone jars or baking dishes, and cook 
slowly three or four hours in oven. The apples should be 
mahogany red in color. Serve with roast pork or mutton. 

Glazed Apples 

2 quarts sugar i peck Baldwin or other 

2 quarts water tart red apples 

Make syrup of sugar and water. Wash and core apples 
and cut crosswise in one-half inch slices. Cook in syrup 
until tender and transparent, but not broken. Do not put 
in so many at a time as to break or crush them. Drain 
and keep hot until ready to serve. More water and sugar 
may be added to syrup at anytime if necessary. The syrup 
that is left may be used in making apple sauce. Serve with 
sausage, bacon, or pork. 



4 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Apples 

i6 pounds tart apples i^ cups bacon, sausage, or 
2 cups sugar pork fat, or butter 

I tablespoon salt i teaspoon paprika 

Wash, quarter, core, and slice apples. Melt butter or fat 
in frying pans, put in apples, sprinkle with salt, sugar, and 
papiika. Cover closely, and cook until apples are soft 
and slightly browned, stirring occasionally. Serve with 
bacon, sausage, or pork chops. 

Dried Apple and Peach Sauce 

Take equal quantities of dried apples and peaches. 
Wash thoroughly, add water to barely cover, let soak over 
night, bring to boiling point, and cook two hours, or until 
soft, in fireless cooker or on back of range. Rub through 
strainer, add sugar and cinnamon to taste. Serve cold. 

Stewed Apricots 

4 pounds dried apricots 3i cups sugar 

Wash apricots thoroughly. Cover with cold water, soak 
over night, and cook slowly in same water, in double 
boiler, until soft but not broken. When nearly done, 
sprinkle sugar over top, but do not stir. 

Baked Bananas 

3 cups sugar 9 tablespoons cornstarch 

i^ teaspoons salt i^ quarts boiling water 

\ cup lemon juice 36 bananas 

# 

Mix dry ingredients, add water, and boil one minute, 
stirring constantly, then add lemon juice. Butter baking 



FRUITS 5 

dishes. Remove skins from bananas, cut in halves length- 
wise, then each half crosswise. Put in baking dishes a 
layer of bananas, then a layer of sauce, until all are used. 
Cover with buttered crumbs, using three cups soft, stale 
crumbs, and three-fourths cup butter. Bake until crumbs 
are brown. 

Sliced Bananas 

4 dozen large, firm, 2 cups powdered sugar 

ripe bananas ^ cup lemon juice 

Peel and slice bananas, arrange in serving dishes in 
layers, alternating with sugar and lemon juice. 

Cranberry Sauce 

6 quarts cranberries 3 quarts sugar 

ij quarts cold water 

Pick over berries, wash in cold water, put into sauce- 
pan, add sugar and water. Cover, heat slowly without 
stirring. Boil slowly fifteen minutes, or until skins arc 
tender and juice jellies. Skim if necessary. Serve cold. 

Cranberry Jelly 

4 quarts cranberries 2 quarts sugar 

I quart water 

Pick over and wash berries, add boiling water, and boil 
twenty minutes. Rub through puree strainer, add sugar, 
boil five minutes. Turn into jelly glasses. 

Dates 

Wash and stone eight pounds dates, steam until tender, 
chill, and serve with thin cream for dessert 



6 RECIPES Ain> MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Stewed Pigs 

6 pounds pulled iigs 2 lemons 

1 quart sugar Water to cover figs 

Wash figs thoroughly, cover with fresh water, and let 
soak several hours. Sprinkle sugar over top and cook in 
double boiler until figs are tender, adding lemon juice 
when nearly done. Do not stir them at all, as that crushes 
them, and they should be unbroken. Strain off the liquid 
and boil until thick as S3rrup. Serve cold with whipped 
cream for dessert 

Stewed Figs and Rhubarb 

6 pounds rhubarb i^ quarts sugar 

2 pounds figs Water to cover figs 

Wash figfs thoroughly, add hot water to barely cover, 
and soak until plump. Wash rhubarb and cut in inch 
pieces without peeling. Put rhubarb, figs, and sugar into 
double boiler or fireless cooker kettle in layers, pouring 
over them the water in which figs were soaked. Bring to 
boiling point and cook until fruit is tender. Serve cold 
for breakfast op luncheon. 



Stewed Gooseberries 

6 quarts gooseberries 2 quarts sugar 

2 quarts water 

Remove tops and stems and wash berries. Dissolve 
sugar in water, bring to boiling point, add berries, and 
simmer gently until tender. More water may be added 
if desired. 



FRUITS 



Baked Pears 



i^ pecks pears 2 quarts sugar 

if quarts water f teaspoon cloves 

Wash, halve, and core pears. Add sugar, water, and 
cloves, cover closely, and bake slowly several hours, or 
until tender. 

Stewed Prunes 

5 pounds prunes 5 cups sugar 

Wash prunes thoroughly, cover with cold water, and 
soak over night or longer. Cook in same water in double 
boiler until prunes are soft, adding more water if neces- 
sary. Sprinkle sugar over top, but do not stir. Serve 
cold. Less sugar may be used if for breakfast 

Stewed Rhubarb 

10 pounds rhubarb 3 cups water 

2i quarts sugar 

Wash rhubarb, cut off imperfect or tough skin, and cut 
in one-inch pieces. Put in kettle with sugar and water, 
bring to boiling ppint, and cook slowly on range or in 
fireless cooker until tender. One hour or more will be 
required in cooker. 

Baked Rhubarb 

10 pounds rhubarb 3 quarts sugar 

Wash rhubarb and cut in inch pieces, removing tough 
or imperfect skin. Put in kettle with sugar, let stand an 
hour or so, then cook slowly in oven two or three hours. 



8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Stewed Raisins 

Wash six pounds raisins, cover, with cold water, soak 
several hours, or over night, and stew gently until plump 
and tender. No sugar is needed. 

Orange Marmalade 

I dozen oranges 6 lemons 

8 quarts water Sugar 

Wash fruit and cut crosswise in very thin slices, remov- 
ing seeds. Add water and let stand twenty-four hours* 
Boil fifteen minutes and let stand another twenty-four 
hours. To every quart of mixture add one quart gran- 
ulated sugar, boil thirty minutes, or until juice jellies 
slightly. Put in sterilized jars and seal, or cover with 
paraffine. 

Apple Marmalade 

6 pounds finely-chopped ij ozs. preserved ginger 

apple 6 pounds sugar 

6 lemons — rind and juice 3 cups water 

Pare and core tart, juicy apples before weighing. Boil 
sugar and water together three minutes, add grated rind 
and juice of lemons, chopped ginger and apple, and cook 
slowly two hours, or until fruit is clear. This may be 
cooked in fireless cooker. 

Spiced Grapes 

8 pounds Concord grapes 4 teaspoons each cloves, 
8 pounds sugar cinnamon, nutmeg, 

li quarts vinegaj" and allspice 

Wash and stem grapes before weighing. Cook grapes 
and vinegar together until skins are tender, strain, add 
sugar and spices, and cook until thick. 



FRUITS 9 

Tomato Relish 

1 peck ripe tomatoes 2 teaspoons ground mace 

2 cups chopped celery 2 teaspoons cloves 

2 cups chopped onions 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

4 chopped red peppers 2 teaspoons black pepper 

3 cups sugar J pound celery seed 
I cup salt 3 pints vinegar 

Chop tomatoes finely, drain, and throw away juice. 
Mix ingredients well, and seal in sterilized jars. Keep in 
cold place, and relish will keep for months without cooking. 

Grape Catsup 

6 quarts G>ncord grapes 4 tablespoons allspice 

4 pounds brown sugar 4 tablespoons cinnamon 
I quart vinegar 4 tablespoons salt 

4 tablespoons cloves i tablespoon cayenne 

Wash gjapes and pick from stems before measuring. 
Cook until soft, rub through puree strainer, add other 
ingredients, and boil until of consistency of tomato catsup. 
Seal while hot. 

Apple Catsup 

10 pounds prepared apples 4 teaspoons mustard 

3 quarts water 3 tablespoons cinnamon 

i^ quarts sugar 4 tablespoons salt 

3 teaspoons paprika 2 small grated onions 

4 teaspoons cloves 2 quarts cider vinegar 

Wash, quarter, and core sour apples. Add water, cook 
until soft and nearly dry, then rub through puree strainer. 
Add other ingredients and cook very slowly for three or 
four hours, or until mahogany red in color. Seal while 
hot 



lO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Spiced Crab Apple Jelly 

I peck crab apples 3 quarts vinegar 

3 tablespoons cloves i quart water 

4 tablespoons stick Sugar 

cinnamon 

If vinegar is very strong, use two quarts vinegar and 
two quarts water. Tie spices separately in strong bags. 
Cook apples, vinegar, water, and spices together until soft, 
strain. Add an equal amount of sugar, boil until it jellies. 



BREAD 

Bread is a term applied to a great variety of batter and 
dough mixtures, but wheat, in one form or another, is used 
in them all. There are many varieties of wheat, of which 
the housekeeper should be familiar with the two, winter 
wheat and spring wheat. The former is sown in the fall, 
remains in the ground all winter, and is harvested the fol- 
lowing summer, producing a grain which is poor in gluten 
and rich in starch. The latter, or spring wheat, is sown 
in the spring and harvested at about the same time as the 
former, but the grain is just the reverse of that of winter 
wheat, being rich in gluten and poor in starch. Bread flour 
is wholly or largely from spring wheats ; pastry flour is 
from winter wheat and is sometimes called St. Louis flour. 

Bread flour is creamy in color and slightly granular in 
texture, so that it does not pack when squeezed in the 
hand, but falls apart readily when the pressure is removed. 
Pastry flour is whiter in color, smoother to the touch, and 
is easily pressed into shape in the hand by pressure. As 
the amount of gluten in flour determines its price, bread 
flour is more expensive than pastry, but it is cheaper in 
the end, because a given weight of flour produces a greater 
quantity of bread. 

Bread flour is always used with yeast ; pastry flour for 
all other batters and doughs, unless otherwise specified in 
recipe. If, for any reason, it is necessary to use bread flour 
instead of pastry, use two tablespoons less flour to each 
cup, or two ounces less to each pound. In other words, 
seven-eighths of a measure of bread flour is equivalent to 
a whole measure of pastry. 

II 



x2 recipes and menus for fifty 

General Directions 

Sift all flour before measuring. For shortening use 
vegetole, cottolene, cotosuet, or crisco, instead of butter 
or lard, because they are cheaper. Both sugar and short- 
ening may be omitted and still have a sweet, wholesome 
bread, but sugar hastens fermentation and shortening 
makes a more tender bread, which is desirable if it is to 
be used for toast. At night, after the bread is kneaded, 
brush with melted fat, to prevent crust from forming. In 
the morning cut down the dough thoroughly with a knife, 
or by turning the bread machine, then shape into loaves 
without using any flour. If the dough is sticky, dip the 
fingers in melted fat. It sometimes happens that rye or 
other dark breads are too sticky to mold without flour. 
In that case it is better to put the dough into pans with- 
out molding or shaping at all. Brush with melted butter 
when first put into the pans, to prevent formation of crust 
while dough rises, and to give tenderness and flavor to 
crust 

All yeast breads should double in bulk before baking. 
The oven should be 360** F. when bread is put in the oven 
and cooled to 300** after about twenty minutes. The oven 
may be tested without a thermometer as follows : Put a 
little flour on bottom of oven, close door, and if flour 
browns slowly while counting forty, the oven is just right 
for bread. Bake sixty minutes for pound loaves. The 
loaves should be of a uniform golden brown all over when 
done. Remove at once from pans and place on a wire 
cooler or on a bread board, with one end of each loaf 
raised so as to allow air to circulate around it. Keep in 
tightly-closed tin receptacles. 



BREAD 13 

To Make Bread with Mixer 

Put into the bread mixer the sugar, salt, shortening, 
etc., then add hot liquid. When cool add dissolved yeast 
and the flour, which should be measured very accurately, 
or weighed, using exactly six quarts or six pounds to two 
quarts of liquid. Turn mixer for five minutes or longer. 
In the morning, or when light, turn for five minutes. 
Shape into loaves, brush with melted butter, let rise again, 
bake sixty minutes or till done. 

Liquid Yeast 

4 medium-sized potatoes ^ cake dry yeast dissolved 
2 tablespoons salt in 

4 tablespoons sugar ^ cup lukewarm water 

2 quarts water 

Boil potatoes and mash fine ; add salt, sugar, and water 
in which potatoes were cooked, adding more water, if 
necessary, to make two quarts. When cool, add dissolved 
yeast. Keep in warm place till light, then in a cold place, 
if it is not to be used at once. Use this yeast in place of 
other liquid, in making bread. Bread made in this way 
rises quickly and is very tender and moist, although it 
becomes moldy more quickly in hot weather than that 
made with dry yeast. 

White Bread 

I quart milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

I quart water 2 tablespoons salt 

I yeast cake dissolved in ^ cup shortening 

1 cup lukewarm water 5i to 6 quarts flour 

Scald milk, add sugar, salt, shortening, and hot water, 
cool till lukewarm. Add dissolved yeast and flour gradu- 



14 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ally, beating hard at first. When stiff enough, take out on 
well-floured board and knead till smooth and springy. Put 
back into well-greased mixing pan, brush with melted 
shortening, let rise over night. In the morning shape into 
loaves, but do not put any flour on board. Brush with 
melted butter, let rise till double in bulk, bake sixty minutes 
in moderately hot oven. This quantity makes six large 
loaves. 

Potato Bread 

2 quarts boiling water i quart mashed potato 

2 tablespoons salt i yeast cake dissolved in 

4 tablespoons sugar J cup lukewarm water 

4 tablespoons shortening 5^ to 6 quarts flour 

Mash hot boiled potato, or use cold mashed potato, put- 
ting it through the potato ricer if lumpy. Add boiling 
water, salt, sugar, and shortening. When lukewarm, add 
yeast and flour, beating well until stiff enough to knead. 
Let rise over night, put into well-greased tins, brush with 
melted butter, let rise till double in bulk, bake sixty minutes 
in moderately hot oven. 

Graham Bread 

I quart hot milk i yeast cake dissolved in 

f quart hot water J cup lukewarm water 

I cup molasses 3 quarts flour 

I J tablespoons salt Graham flour to knead 

Sift Graham flour, but mix bran with it again before 
measuring. Put molasses and salt into mixing pan, add 
liquid. When cool add dissolved yeast and flour to knead. 
Let rise over night, shape into loaves, brush generously 
with melted butter. When risen to double its bulk, bake 
about sixty minutes in moderate oven. 



BREAD 15 

Entire Wheat Bread 

I quart scalded milk f cup sugar 

1 quart hot water i yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tablespoons salt J cup lukewarm water 
i cup shortening i quart white flour 

5 quarts entire wheat flour 

Put sugar, salt, and shortening into mixing pan, add 
hot liquid and cool. Add yeast, white flour, and entire 
wheat flour. When smooth and elastic to touch, put into 
greased mixing pan, let rise over night. In morning shape 
into loaves, brush with melted butter, let rise to double its 
bulk, bake from fifty to sixty minutes in moderately hot 
oven. If dough is too soft to handle in morning, cut down 
well with knife and turn into bread tins without taking 
on to the bread board. 

Rye Bread 

I quart hot milk 4 tablespoons shortening 

1 quart hot water i yeast cake 

2 tablespoons salt 3 quarts white flour 
li cups brown sugar 3 quarts rye flour 

Dissolve yeast cake in one-fourth cup lukewarm water. 
Prepare and bake as for Entire Wheat Bread. 

Date Bread 

2 quarts warm wheat i yeast cake dissolved in 

mush i cup lukewarm water 

2 cups brown sugar 5 cups English walnut 
4 teaspoons salt meats 

i cup melted shortening 5 cups stoned dates 



l6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut nuts and dates in pieces. Mix the first four ingredi- 
ents, add dissolved yeast and flour to knead. In the morn- 
ing, or after the first rising, knead the nuts and dates into 
the dough ; shape into loaves, let rise, bake from fifty to 
sixty minutes. 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 quarts boiling water 6 quarts flour 

I quart rolled oats i yeast cake 

I cup molasses 2 tablespoons salt 

Dissolve yeast in one- fourth cup cool water. Pour boil- 
ing water on rolled oats and let stand half an hour or 
longer. When lukewarm add molasses, salt, dissolved 
yeast, and flour. When smooth and elastic to touch, put 
to rise over night. In morning shape into loaves, or if very 
sticky, cut down well with knife and put into tins without 
taking on to the board. Brush with melted butter, let rise 
to double in bulk, bake sixty minutes or till done. 

Plain Rolls 

i^ pints scalded milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

li pints hot water 3 tablespoons shortening 

i| yeast cakes dissolved in i tablespoon salt 
i cup cool water 4 to 4^ quarts flour 

Put salt, sugar, and shortening into mixing pan, add hot 
liquids. When cool, add yeast and flour to knead as soft 
as can be handled. Let rise over night, in morning, if 
wanted for breakfast, shape at once, but if for luncheon, 
cut down dough and let rise again before shaping. Shape 
into small biscuits or finger rolls, place closely in greased 
pans, brush with melted butter, let rise till very light, bake 
from twelve to twenty minutes in hot oven. This quantity 
makes about one hundred medium-sized rolls. 



BREAD 17 

Parker House Rolls 

i^ quarts scalded milk i tablespoon salt 

f cup shortening i^ yeast cakes 

^ cup sugar 4 to 4^ quarts flour 

Add sugar, salt, and shortening to milk. When luke- 
warm, add yeast which has been dissolved in one-fourth 
cup lukewarm water, and flour to knead as soft as can be 
handled. Let rise over night. In morning cut down and 
let rise again before shaping. If dough i& light before it 
is time to shape rolls, it can be put in the refrigerator till 
wanted. Roll out one-third inch thick on an unfloured 
board, shape with biscuit cutter first dipped in flour. Dip 
handle of case knife in flour, and with it make crease 
through middle of each piece. Brush over one-half the 
piece with melted butter, fold edges together, pressing 
them tightly. Place in greased pan one inch apart, let rise 
till double in bulk, bake twelve to fifteen minutes in hot 
oven. Brush with melted butter before putting in to bake 
or when partly done. 

This same mixture may be shaped into biscuits, finger 
rolls, or clover leaf rolls. This quantity makes about one 
hundred rolls. 

Rusks 

i^ quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

li cups shortening i yeast cake dissolved in 

ij cups sugar J cup lukewarm water 

6 eggs Flour to knead 

Add shortening, salt, and sugar to hot milk. When 
lukewarm, add beaten egg, yeast, and flour to make soft 
batter. Beat hard, add enough flour to knead, and let rise 
over night. In morning make into small biscuits, place 



l8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

in pan so that they will touch each other, and let rise again* 
Before baking, nnake three parallel creases in top of each 
biscuit, brush with milk, sprinkle with sugar, bake in hot 
oven from twelve to twenty minutes, according to size. 

Raised MufHns 

f quart scalded milk 6 tablespoons shortening 

f quart water i tablespoon salt 

3 eggs I yeast cake 

f cup sugar 3 quarts flour 

Cool milk and water, dissolve yeast in it, add beaten 
yolks, salt, sugar, and flour ; let rise over night. In morn- 
ing add melted shortening and stifily-beaten whites. Fill 
muffin pans two-thirds full, let rise in warm place until 
full, and bake from thirty to forty-five minutes in hot oven. 
The muffins should be brown and crisp all over. This 
quantity makes about six dozen. 

English Muffins 

Use recipe for Raised Muffins. When mixture is light 
add melted shortening and whites beaten stifle. Put well- 
greased muffin rings on hot griddle, fill half full, cook 
slowly until well risen and slightly browned underneath, 
turn with pancake turner, and cook on other side. When 
cold, pull them apart and toast to a golden brown. Butter 
generously on the toasted side, reheat, and serve with 
Orange or Grapefruit Marmalade. 

Squash Rolls 

i^ quarts scalded milk i^ quarts lifted squash 

i cup shortening i^ yeast cakes dissolved in 

} cup sugar J cup cold water 

3 teaspoons salt 4 to 4^ quarts flour 



BREAD 19 

Add salt, sugar, and shortening to hot milk ; when cool, 
add squash, yeast, and flour to make as soft a dough as 
can be handled. Knead till smooth, let rise over night, 
shape like ordinary rolls, let rise till double in bulk, and 
bake in hot oven. 

Potato Rolls 

4 to 4i quarts flour } cup sugar 

i^ quarts scalded milk i^ quarts mashed potato 

i^ cups shortening i^ yeast cakes dissolved in 

3 teaspoons salt ^ cup lukewarm water 

Add shortening, salt, potato, and sugar to hot milk. 
When cool, add yeast and flour to make batter. Beat well, 
then add flour to knead. In morning shape into small 
biscuits, place close together in well-greased pan, let rise 
till double in bulk, brush with melted butter, and bake 
twelve to twenty minutes in hot oven. These rolls may 
also be shaped like Parker House or Qover Leaf Rolls. 

Buns 

4 to 4i quarts flour i tablespoon cinnamon 
i^ quarts scalded milk 6 well-beaten eggs 

li cups shortening i^ yeast cakes dissolved in 

3 teaspoons salt J cup lukewarm water 

i^ cups sugar 3 cups currants or raisins 

Add shortening, salt, and sugar to scalded milk. When 
lukewarm, add yeast, eggs, fruit, and flour which has been 
sifted with cinnamon. Knead well, let rise over night. 
In morning shape into small biscuits, place one inch apart 
in well-greased pans, let rise to double in size, and bake in 
hot oven from twelve to twenty minutes. Brush with 
mixture of sugar and milk and put back in oven to dry. 



20 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Hot Cross Buns 

Make same as Buns. When cool, make cross with frost- 
ing on top of each bun. 

Swedish Rolls 

i^ quarts scalded milk i^ yeast cakes dissolved in 

f cup shortening J cup water 

i cup sugar i^ cups sugar 

3 teaspoons salt 3 teaspoons cinnamon 

4 to 4i quarts flour 2 cups chopped raisins 

Mix first four ingredients, cool, then add yeast and flour 
to knead as soft as can be handled. In morning, or after 
first rising, roll to one-fourth inch thickness, spread gen- 
erously with melted butter. Mix sugar, cinnamon, and 
raisins, and spread evenly over dough ; roll up like jelly 
roll and cut in three- fourths inch pieces. Place pieces close 
together in pan, flat side down, let rise till double in bulk, 
and bake in hot oven. When done, brush with white of 
egg, slightly beaten and diluted with one tablespoon water* 
and return to oven to dry egg. 

German Coffee Bread 

li quarts scalded milk 3 eggs 

i^ cups shortening i yeast cake dissolved in 

I cup sugar ^ cup lukewarm water 

2i teaspoons salt 3 J quarts bread flour 

Add shortening, sugar, and salt to milk; when luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, well-beaten eggs, and 
flour. Beat well, cover, let rise over night. In morning, 
pour into well-greased, shallow pans to depth of one-half 
inch, let rise one hour in warm place. Before baking, brush 



BREAD 21 

with beaten egg and cover with following mixture : Meh 
one cup butter, add one and one-half cups sugar and five 
teaspoons cinnamon; when sugar is partly melted, add 
one-fourth cup flour. Bake thirty minutes, or till done, 
in rather hot oven. To serve, cut through crust, then 
break in squares, or pull apart with fork. 

Raised Doughnuts 

2i quarts flour i} cups sugar 

2^ cups scalded milk f cup melted butter 

5 eggs i^ teaspoons salt 

i^ teaspoons mace f yeast cake 

Dissolve yeast in scalded and cooled milk, stir in one 
quart bread flour, beat well, and let rise over night. In 
morning add beaten eggs, sugar, salt, mace, butter, and 
flour to knead as soft as can be handled — about one and 
one-half quarts. Let rise until double in bulk, which will 
require two or three hours. Take part of dough on floured 
board, pat and roll to three-fourths inch thickness. Cut 
in strips three-fourths inch wide. Twist and lengthen 
these, then shape into figure eight Repeat, until all the 
dough is used. Let stand on board, closely covered, until 
light throughout. Fry in deep fat, drain, cool, and roll 
in powdered sugar. This makes seventy-five doughnuts of 
medium size. 



QUICK DOUGHS 

Baking Powder 

Sift together, seven times or more, the following in- 
gredients: five and five-eighths pounds cream of tartar, 
two and one-half pounds soda, and one and one-fourth 
pounds cornstarch. If ingredients are purchased in large 
quantities, it is much cheaper to make than to buy baking 
powder. 

Pop-overs 

3 quarts milk 12 eggs 

I tablespoon salt 3 quarts Hour 

Mix salt with flour, add milk gradually, that mixture 
may not become lumpy. Add eggs which have been beaten 
until light, then beat mixture two minutes with Dover 
egg beater. Fill hot, well-greased muffin pans three- 
fourths full, bake forty-five minutes or more in a moder- 
ately hot oven. Each pop-over should be double in size, 
and crisp and golden brown all over. I f not cooked enough, 
they will not keep their shape, and will be soft and moist 
instead of dry and crisp. If the oven is too hot, they will 
burn on top before the sides are well crusted. This recipe 
makes six dozen large pop-overs. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts flour i tablespoon salt 

2j quarts sour milk 6 eggs 

4i teaspoons soda 
22 



QUICK DOUGHS 23 

Sift soda, salt, and flour together. Stir milk into well- 
beaten yolks and add gradually to flour, then fold in beaten 
whites. It wanted thinner, add a little sweet milk. If the 
milk is very thick and sour, it is well to dilute it slightly 
with sweet milk. This amount of batter makes about one 
hundred cakes, allowing one and one-half tablespoons 
batter to each cake. Cook on hot griddle and serve at once. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts flour | cup shortening 
6 tablespoons baking i cup sugar 

powder 2 quarts milk 

4 teaspoons salt 4 eggs 

4 tablespoons molasses 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; beat eggs^ add milk and 
molasses, and pour slowly on flrst mixture. Beat well, add 
shortening, cook at once on hot, well-greased griddle. 
Serve with maple, caramel, or brown sugar syrup. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

Add two or three cups cooked rice to Sweet or Sour 
Milk Griddle Cake mixture. Serve with syrup or shaved 
maple sugar. 

Waffles 

2 quarts thin, sweet cream 12 to 16 eggs 
8 tablespoons baking 4 teaspoons salt 

powder 4 quarts flour 

Mix dry ingredients. Beat yolks of eggs, add cream 
and dry ingredients, and fold in stifily-beaten whites. 
Heat one side of waffle iron, turn, heat other side, and 



24 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

grease both sides thoroughly. Put tablespoonful of mix- 
ture in each compartmeiife near center of iron, cover, and 
turn almost as soon as covered, cooking on the other 
side until brown. This quantity makes about twenty-five 
waffles. 

Plain Muffins 

2i quarts flour 5 eggs 

f cup shortening } cup sugar 

5 teaspoons salt i^ quarts milk 

6^ tablespoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add gradually milk, well- 
beaten eggs, and shortening. Put into well-greased muffin 
pans, filling them two-thirds full, or more. Bake thirty 
minutes, or till done, in moderate oven. This quantity 
makes fifty-five large muffins. 



Cereal Muffins 

2^ quarts flour 3 cups cooked cereal 

1} quarts milk 6^ tablespoons baking 

5 eggs powder 

i cup shortening 5 teaspoons salt 

i cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat eggs, add cereal, 
and beat hard in order to get rid of lumps. Add milk 
slowly, then dry ingredients and melted shortening. Bake 
thirty minutes, or till done, in a moderate oven. 

The cereal may be put through a coarse sieve, or the 
potato ricer, before using. This quantity makes fifty-five 
large muffins. 



QUICK DOUGHS 2$ 

Graham or Entire Wheat Muffins 

2| pints Graham flom* 2| pints milk 
2^ pints white flour 5 eggs 

5 teaspoons salt 6^ tablespoons baking 

I cup sugar powder 

5 tablespoons shortening 

Sift flour, saving bran from Graham to use in Bran 
Cakes. Mix and sift dry ingredients together; add milk 
gradually, then well-beaten eggs and melted shortening. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, or till done. This 
recipe makes fifty-five large muffins. 

Rye Muffins are made in same way, except that rye flour 
is substituted for Graham. 

Bran Cakes 

1 quart flour 4 teaspoons soda 

2 quarts bran i^ quarts milk 

3 teaspoons salt 2 cups molasses 

Sift flour, salt, and soda together, add bran and mix 
thoroughly, then add molasses and milk. Beat well and 
bake in muffin pans in moderate oven thirty minutes, or 
till done. This recipe makes about fifty large ones. 

Graham Gems 

2} pints Graham flour 5 tablespoons shortening 
2i pints white flour 5 tablespoons baking 

5 teaspoons salt powder 

I cup sugar 2^ pints sour milk slightly 

2} teaspoons soda thickened 

5 eggs 



26 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

If sour milk is very thick and sour, dilute with a little 
sweet milk before using. Sift Graham flour, then mix the 
bran with it again before measuring ; or bran can be saved 
to use for Bran Cakes. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add 
milk gradually, well-beaten eggs, and melted shortening. 
Fill gem pans half full, bake twenty minutes, or till done, 
in moderate oven. 

Batter Bread 

li quarts white com meal i^ quarts cooked rice, 
li quarts boiling water hominy,or other cereal 

2i teaspoons salt 3^ tablespoons baking 
if quarts milk powder 

12 to 15 eggs 

Pour boiling water on com meal, add cereal, well-beaten 
eggs, baking powder mixed with salt, and milk. Bake in 
enamel-lined or earthen dishes, in moderate oven, forty- 
five minutes, or until firm like custard. Serve in dishes 
in which it is baked. 

Com Bread 

xl quarts yellow com meal 8 tablespoons baking 
I J quarts white flour powder 

i^ cups sugar i^ quarts milk 

I tablespoon salt 6 eggs 

6 tablespoons shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk, well-beaten 
eggs, and melted shortening. Pour into well-greased 
shallow pans to depth of one inch, bake thirty minutes, or 
till done, in moderately hot oven. 

Cold corn bread is very nice split, toasted, buttered, and 
served very hot. 



QUICK DOUGHS TTJ 

Golden Com Cakes 

\ cup shortening 2 cups sugar 

i^ tablespoons salt i quart milk 

i^ tablespoons soda i quart yellow com meal 

2f tablespoons cream of \\ quarts flour 

tartar 8 eggs 

Mix as for 0>m Bread. Fill well-greased mufEn pans 
half full, bake in moderately hot oven twenty minutes, or 
till done. 

Quick Nut Bread 

i^ quarts com meal 2\ cups brown sugar 

2\ quarts Graham flour 3^ tablespoons soda 
i^ quarts pastry flour 4 teaspoons salt 
2\ cups molasses 2\ cups chopped walnuts 

i^ quarts milk 

Mix dry ingredients, add molasses and sour milk, beat 
well, add nuts, bake in shallow loaves, in moderate oven, 
forty-five minutes, or till done. 

Blueberry MufiBns 

I cup shortening 5 tablespoons baking 

li cups sugar powder 

4 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

2} quarts flour 4 cups milk 

4 cups berries 

Cream shortening and sugar together, add well-beaten 
eggs and milk. Mix one cup flour with berries. Sift re- 
mainder of flour with salt and baking powder and add to 
first mixture. Beat well, then stir in berries. Canned 



28 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

berries may be used by straining off liquid before mixing 
with flour. Bake thirty minutes, or till done, in moder- 
ately hot oven. This recipe makes fifty-five mufiins of 
medium size. 

Boston Brown Bread 

I quart com meal 2 cups molasses 

I quart Graham flour 4 teaspoons salt 

I quart entire wheat or rye 2 quarts sour milk 

2 tablespoons soda 

If sweet milk is used, add two and two-thirds table- 
spoons cream of tartar. Mix and sift dry ingredients 
together; add milk and molasses, beat thoroughly. Fill 
well-greased molds two-thirds full, cover and steam three 
and one-half hours. If not used the same day, steam an 
hour before using. Send to table in covered dishes or 
wrapped in napkins. Raisins may be added if desired. 



Sally Lunn 

2i quarts flour i^ quarts milk 

5 teaspoons salt 10 eggs 

5 tablespoons baking 5 tablespoons melted 

powder shortening 

I cup sugar 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add beaten yolks, short- 
ening, and milk. Beat well, cut and fold in sti£9y-beaten 
whites. Pour into shallow cake pans to depth of one inch, 
bake in moderate oven forty minutes, or till done. 

To serve, cut through crust into squares, then break 
apart. 



QUICK DOUGHS ^9 

Drop Biscuit 

3 quarts flour } cup shortening 

4i to 5 cups milk or 8 tablespoons baking 

milk and water powder 

2 tablespoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Work in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add liquid gradually, mixing with knife 
to soft dough that can be dropped from spoon without 
spreading. Drop by spoonfuls on well-greased pans, one- 
half inch apart. Bake eight minutes in hot oven. 

Rocks 

Use recipe for Drop Biscuit. Before baking, brush with 
milk, then sprinkle generously with granulated sugar and 
cinnamon. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 

4^ cups milk or milk 8 tablespoons baking 

and water powder 

I cup shortening 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together, then cut 
or rub in shortening. Add milk gradually, mixing with 
knife to as soft a dough as can be handled. Flour center 
of board generously, drop dough on it, pat it with well- 
floured hands until it is floured all over, then pat or roll 
to three-fourths inch thickness. Cut in rounds, place close 
together in well-greased pans, bake from fifteen to twenty 
minutes in hot oven. Time of baking depends upon size 
and thickness. All ingredients should be cold. Handle as 
little and as lightly as possible, and avoid working in more 
flour. 



30 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Entire Wheat Biscuit (Sour Milk) 

3 quarts entire wheat 4I cups sour milk 

flour 4 tablespoons baking 

1 cup shortening powder 

2 tablespoons salt 2^ teaspoons soda 

f cup sugar 

The milk should be slightly thickened, but if very thick 
and sour, dilute with a little water or sweet milk. Mix 
and sift dry ingredients together, rub in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add milk, mixing with knife to soft dough. 
It should be as soft as can be handled ; if too stiff, add a 
little sweet milk. Roll out from one-half to one inch in 
thickness, according to taste, cut in rounds, place close 
together in well-greased pans, bake in hot oven irom ten 
to twenty minutes. 

Entire Wheat Biscuit (Sweet Milk) 

Use recipe for Entire Wheat Biscuit with sour milk, 
using sweet milk instead of sour, omitting soda, and using 
eight tablespoons baking powder. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 
4i cups milk or milk and 8 tablespoons baking 

water mixed powder 

f cup shortening 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit. Roll to one-fourth 
inch thickness, brush generously with melted butter, spread 
with three cups brown sugar mixed with three tablespoons 
cinnamon. Roll up like jelly roll, cut in three-fourths inch 



QUICK DOUGHS 3 1 

pieces, place pieces close together in well-greased pans, 
flat side down. Bake fifteen to twenty minutes in hot 
oven. 

Doughnuts (Sweet Milk) 

2 cups sugar 4 teaspoons cream of tartar 

5 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons soda 

4 eggs i teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups milk i teaspoon nutmeg 

3 teaspoons salt Flour to roll 

Beat eggs, add sugar, melted butter, milk, and four 
cups flour which has been sifted with dry ingredients, 
then enough more flour to handle, keeping dough as soft 
as possible. Roll only a small part at a time, and be care- 
ful not to work in more flour. Do not knead dough more 
than absolutely necessary. Roll about three-fourths inch 
thick, cut, fry in deep fat, drain on brown paper. Roll 
in granulated or powdered sugar while still warm. 



Doughnuts (Sour Milk) 

2 cups sugar 3 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons butter i teaspoon soda 

4 eggs 2 tablespoons baking 

i teaspoon nutmeg powder 

i teaspoon cinnamon 2 cups sour milk 

Flour to roll 

Mix and fry as Doughnuts with sweet milk. These 
recipes make about seventy-five doughnuts of medium 
size. 



32 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Rye Drop Cakes 

3 eggs 3 teaspoons soda 

f cup sugar 3 cups rye flour 

3 cups sour milk 3 cups flour 

i^ teaspoons salt 

Sift dry ingredients together ; add milk and well-beaten 
eggs, and beat well. Drop by teaspoonfuls into hot fat, 
fry to a golden brown, drain on brown paper. Serve with 
maple syrup. 

Fritter Batter 

si cups flour I teaspoon salt 

2} tablespoons baking 2} cups milk 
powder 4 eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually and 
eggs well beaten. 

Apple Fritters 

Pare, core, and cut eight tart apples in eighths, then cut 
eighths in slices, and stir into Fritter Batter. Drop by 
spoonfuls into hot fat, fry until brown, drain, and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Serve hot. 

Fresh peaches or pears may be used in same way. 
Canned fruits may be used after draining off S3rrup. 

Rice Fritters 

3 cups cooked rice 6 eggs 

i^ quarts flour 3 tablespoons baking 

3 cups milk powder 

3 teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add cereal, milk, and eggs 
well beaten. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat, fry till 



QUICK DOUGHS 33 

brown, and drain on brown paper. Serve with meats or 
with sweet sauce for dessert. 



Hominy Fritters 

i^ quarts cooked hominy 6 eggs 
i^ quarts flour 2 tablespoons baking 

3 cups milk powder 

3 teaspoons salt 

Mix hominy with milk until smooth, adding milk a little 
at a time. Then add flour which has been sifted with dry 
ingredients and well-beaten eggs. Drop by small spoon- 
fuls into hot fat, fry till brown. If batter is too soft, 
add a little more flour. Serve with meats, or dust with 
powdered sugar and serve with liquid sauce for dessert. 

Hygienic or Dry Toast 

Cut stale bread in half slices, as thin as can be handled 
without breaking. Toast quickly to a tmiform golden 
brown on each side, in broiler or over coals. It must be 
watched very closely to prevent burning, and any burned 
parts should be scraped off with a sharp knife. Put in 
warm (not hot) oven until well dried throughout. The 
Akddin oven is best for this purpose. If gas oven is used, 
heat oven moderately, then turn off gas. Toast may be 
buttered, if desired, before sending to table. Keep hot. 

Brown Toast 

Cut stale Graham or oatmeal bread in thin half slices ; 
place on edge, in rows, in dripping pans, put in warm 
(not hot) oven until well dried. The more slowly it dries. 



34 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

the better it is. This toast is not buttered before sending 
to table. Moist or close-grained bread is not suitable for 
this toast 



Crumbs 

Crusts and broken pieces of bread not suitable for 
croutons should be dried. With sharp knife cut off any 
dark brown or burned parts, then cut or break into small 
pieces and dry without browning. These dried pieces may 
be used for bread puddings, scalloped cheese, stuffing, etc., 
allowing one cup of small dried pieces as the equivalent 
of one cup of stale crumbs. To dry these pieces, place in 
dripping pan and put into slow oven that will dry with- 
out browning them, or keep in warming oven until dry. 
When perfectly dry, they can be put through meat chopper, 
if fine crumbs are wanted. 

Keep crumbs in one receptacle and small pieces in 
another. Use fine dried crumbs for croquettes, coarse 
crumbs for stuffing. 

Buttered Crumbs 

Melt one-half cup butter over hot water, add one quart 
stale, undried crumbs, and stir until well mixed. Use 
instead of dried crumbs for scalloped dishes. 



Croutons 

Use stale bread, utilizing broken slices, ends of loaves, 
etc., for this purpose. Cut into half-inch dice, toast in 
moderate oven until a uniform golden brown. Serve with 
soup. 



QUICK DOUGHS 35 

German or French Toast 

12 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

4 cups milk i cup sugar 

Beat eggs, add salt, sugar, and milk. Soak slices of 
stale bread in mixture until soft. Cook on hot, well- 
buttered griddle ; brown one side, turn and brown other 
side. Be very careful not to bum toast. This quantity is 
sufficient for fifty or sixty large half slices. Serve for 
bre^fast or luncheon with marmalade, jelly, or syrup. 

Cream Toast 

Make four quarts of White Sauce II. Make one hun- 
dred half slices of toast. The bread should be well browned 
and quite dry, but never burned. If it is burned, scrape 
off that part with sharp knife. Dip toast in hot water, 
arrange on hot platters, pour White Sauce over it, being 
careful to have each slice well covered. 

If there is time, a better way is to dip toast in cold water, 
then reheat in oven before arranging on platters. Cold 
water prevents the slight sogginess which hot water gives. 
If bread is very tender and flaky, dipping in water may 
be omitted entirely. 

Serve with Orange Marmalade, Baked Bananas, or 
Baked Apples. 

Milk Toast 

Heat five quarts milk in double boiler, season with one 
cup butter, four teaspoons or more salt. Make one hun- 
dred half slices of nicely browned and well-dried toast. 
Arrange in deep dishes, pour hot milk over toast, cover,' . 
and send to table at once. The butter and one pint of milk 
may be omitted and a pint of heavy cream used instead. 
Serve with Grape Jelly. 



36 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Tomato Cream Toast 

4 quarts stewed tomatoes i cup sugar 

1} cups butter i tablespoon salt 

I J cups flour I teaspoon paprika 

Put tomatoes through strainer; heat to boiling point. 
Melt butter in inner part of large double boiler ; when hot, 
stir in flour. When smooth, add hot tomato, stir well, and 
let cook from twenty to thirty minutes in double boiler. 
Season ; serve on well-toasted bread which has been dipped 
in water. If desired, one-fourth additional cup of flour 
may be used for thickening, and just before serving a pint 
of thick cream added. This quantity of sauce is sufiicient 
for fifty slices or one hundred half slices toast. 

Baked Tomato Toast 

Make sauce and toast as above. Arrange layers of toast 
in buttered enamel or earthen baking dishes, alternating 
with tomato sauce. Pour remainder of sauce over top, 
cover dishes, and put in oven for ten minutes. Send to 
tables in dishes. 

Oysters and Celery on Toast 

3 quarts oysters 2 quarts or more milk 

3 quarts celery 2 cups butter 

2 quarts water 2 cups flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut celery in inch pieces, add water and cook one hour, 
or until soft ; drain well. 

Melt butter, add flour, stir till smooth; add water in 
which celery was cooked, and enough milk to make four 



QUICK DOUGHS 37 

quarts liquid; stir till smooth, add celery, cook thirty 
minutes in double boiler. Season to taste. 

Pick over oysters, removing any bits of shell ; wash and 
drain. Add to sauce and cook until oysters are plump 
and gills curled. Serve on well-toasted bread which has 
been dipped in salted water. 

Cinnamon Toast 

Toast half slices of stale white bread to a uniform 
golden brown ; sprinkle with mixture of granulated sugar 
and cinnamon, reheat, and serve at once. 

Savory Toast 

5 or 6 cans tomato soup 2^ tablespoons salt 
2 quarts water 4 tablespoons butter 

I cup chopped onion 8 eggs 

5 tablespoons flour 3 tablespoons French 

I teaspoon cayenne mustard 

I pound cheese 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft and yellow, add 
ilour mixed with salt and cayenne, and stir until smooth. 
Add hot tomato and water, French mustard, and grated 
cheese, and cook in double boiler until smooth and thick- 
ened slightly, then add to well-beaten eggs, stirring con- 
stantly, and cook in double boiler until thickened. Serve 
on moistened half slices of toast. 



CEREALS 

Methods of Cooking 

In double boiler: 

Have the outside of the double boiler a little more than 
half full of boiling water. Put into the inside part the 
required amount of boiling water and the salt. Place the 
inside of double boiler directly on the stove, and as soon 
as the water boils hard stir in the cereal slowly, trying 
not to stop the boiling of the water. Boil five minutes, or 
less, if the cereal thickens so much that there is danger 
of its sticking to the bottom of the boiler. If a flaked 
cereal, stir with a fork to avoid breaking flakes. If a 
granulated cereal, use a wooden or heavy iron spoon. 
When it has boiled sufficiently, put the boiler into outside 
part for the remainder of the required time. 
In fireless cooker: 

Measure the required amount of water into the fireless 
cooker kettle. When boiling, add salt, stir in the cereal 
slowly, boil one minute, or until slightly thickened ; cover, 
place in the cooker, using one radiator. If cereal is for 
breakfast, prepare the night before and leave in cooker all 
night. The coarse cereals should always be cooked at least 
four hours. 

To heat the radiator : Place on stove or range, with the 
gas turned low at first, so as to heat gradually. As soon 
as hissing hot, place in proper compartment, put in the 
tightly-covered kettle, and fasten down cover. 

38 



CEEEALS 



39 



Table for Cooking Cereals 



KiMD QUAMTITT 


WATUt 


Salt 


TiMB 




Qmartt 


Quartt 


TiiMh^mmu 




Rolled Oats 


2i 


5 


3 


I hour 


Quaker Rolled Oats 


2i 


5 


3 


I hour 


Pettijohn's 


3i 


5 


4 


45 minutes 


Wheatena 










Wheat Meal 










Farina 


il 


6 


2 


I hour 


Cream of Wheat 










Malt Breakfast Food 










Rice 


2 


6 


2 


45 minutes 


Hominy 


l\ 


6 


2 


2 hours 


Cracked Wheat 1 




- 






Com Meal v 


II 


6 


2 


3 to 4 houn 


Scotch Oatmeal 1 











Methods of Serving 

Serve plain with sugar and cream or milk. In hot 
weather, cereal may be molded and served cold. 

Serve with fruit, such as baked apples, sliced bananas, 
fresh or stewed peaches ; stewed primes, raisins, or figs ; 
or dates, washed, stoned, and cut in pieces. 
. Serve with chopped English walnuts sprinkled over the 
top of each serving. 



Fried Mushes 

Corn meal, oatmeal, hominy, or other mushes left from 
breakfast, may be packed in greased pans of any desired 
shape, to mold for frying. If cooked expressly to fry, use 
less water in cooking. 



40 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut molded cereal in one*third inch slices, dip them in 
flour, and saute. Be very careful not to bum them. If 
less water is used in cooking, it is not necessary to dip 
slices in flour. Serve with maple or caramel syrup. 

Boiled Rice 

2 quarts rice 14 quarts water 

6 tablespoons salt 

Pick over and wash rice thoroughly. Add it gradually 
to boiling salted water, boil thirty minutes, or until soft, 
but be sure not to overcook. Drain rice in coarse strainer, 
rinse with hot water, turn lightly and carefully into dishes 
as fast as drained. Cover with cheesecloth and keep hot 
on stove or in oven. Save rice water for soup making. 

Creamed Rice 

i^ quarts rice 2 quarts milk 

} cup butter 2 teaspoons salt 

f cup flour i teaspoon paprika 

Cook as for Boiled Rice. Melt butter, add flour, stir 
until smooth, add hot milk, stirring hard until free from 
lumps. Cook thirty minutes in double boiler, stirring 
occasionally; add salt and pepper, stir in rice carefully, 
serve as soon as well heated. Cold boiled rice may be 
utilized in this way. Serve as vegetable or luncheondish. 

Spanish Rice 

5 cups rice 1 sweet red pepper 

i^ pounds salt pork 2 small green peppers 

2 medium onions 2 quarts strained tomato. 
Salt to taste or part stock 



CEREALS 41 

Wash rice in cold water, rubbing grains between the 
hands until water is clear. Add rice slowly to ten quarts 
boiling water, parboil ten minutes, drain. 

Chop salt pork, cook in oven in frying pan until fat is 
tried out, but do not let it get brown. Add chopped onion 
and seeded and chopped peppers, and fry for a few 
minutes, or till slightly yellowed. Put all ingredients into 
double boiler, add strained tomato, and cook tiiirty minutes, 
or until rice is soft, but not mushy. 

Curried Rice 

i^ quarts rice 2 tablespoonscurrypowder 

i^ cups butter 2 tablespoons or more salt 

i^ cups finely-chopped 2 quarts boiliiig water 

onion 2^ quarts hot milk 

Heat milk in large double boiler. Cook onion in butter 
until soft and light yellow, add well-washed rice, and stir 
until butter is absorbed ; add curry, salt, and boiling water. 
Cook over fire for five minutes, then turn into double 
boiler with hot milk and cook thirty minutes, or until rice 
is soft, but not broken. Serve in border, with green peas 
in center. This is a good luncheon dish. 

Rice with Tomato 

To six quarts Boiled Rice add two quarts Plain Tomato 
Sauce. Mix lightly with a fork, so as not to mash the 
grains. Serve as a vegetable. 

Rice with Cheese 

Mix Boiled Rice lightly with grated cheese, pile in dish, 
sprinkle with grated cheese. Serve as a vegetable. 



42 KECIPES AND MENUS FOK FIFTY 

Turkish Pilaf 

3 quarts tomato i^ quarts rice 

4 onions 2^ tablespoons salt 
8 sprigs parsley 2 cups butter 

12 peppercorns J teaspoon pepper 

i6 cloves I quart st5ck or water 

Cook first five ingredients together five minutes, strain; 
there should be three quarts. Wash rice, parboil five 
minutes, drain. Put into double boiler, add tomato, stock, 
salt, pepper, and butter in small bits. Cook forty-five 
minutes, or until rice is soft. Do not stir. Serve as a 
border for Curry of Mutton. 

Gnocchi 

4 quarts milk i pound or more of 

2 cups butter English dairy cheese 

2 cups flour Cold cereal 

Make a White Sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, 
following directions for White Sauces. Season with four 
teaspoons salt and add to it part of the grated cheese. 
Mold cereal in very small individual molds, or cut it in 
small pieces ; arrange in earthen or enamel baking dishes ; 
they should not be more than half full. Pour sauce over 
cereal, sprinkle with cheese, bake about twenty minutes. 
Serve for luncheon. 

Baked Hominy 

I quart hominy 5 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts milk 8 eggs 

Heat milk in double boiler; when scalding hot add 
hominy, having washed it in several waters. Stir for a 



CEREALS 43 

few minutes, then let it cook for one or two hours. When 
lukewarm, add well-beaten eggs and salt. Beat vigorously, 
turn into buttered baking dishes, and bake twenty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. Serve as a vegetable or as a 
luncheon dish. 

Baltimore Samp 

i^ quarts samp 2^ quarts milk 

I cup butter 2^ teaspoons salt 

1 cup flour 4 or 5 cups grated cheese 

Wash samp well, soak all night in six quarts water, then 
bring to boiling point and cook six or eight hours in fire- 
less cooker. The samp should be quite thick when done. 
Make white sauce of butter, flour, milk, and salt, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Add cheese, stirring 
sauce until cheese is melted, then add samp. Serve as a 
vegetable or as a luncheon dish. 

Boiled Macaroni 

Break macaroni in inch pieces. For two quarts of 
macaroni have ten quarts or more boiling water, to which 
five tablespoons salt have been added. Put in macaroni 
and boil for thirty minutes, or until soft ; drain in colander, 
pour over it cold water to prevent pieces adhering, drain, 
and it is ready for use in any of the following recipes. 
Macaroni is much cheaper when purchased in twenty-five 
or fifty-pound boxes, instead of in pound packages. 

Creamed Macaroni 

2 quarts macaroni 4 teaspoons salt 
1} cups butter i teaspoon paprika 
1} cups flour 4 quarts milk 



44 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Boil macaroni as above. Make a white sauce of the 
butter, flour, milk, and seasonings, following directions 
for White Sauces. Reheat macaroni in sauce, keeping it 
over hot water while it heats. Serve as a vegetable or as 
a luncheon dish. 

Macaroni with Cheese 

2 quarts macaroni 4 teaspoons salt 

broken in pieces i teaspoon paprika 

i^ cups butter 4 quarts milk 

i^ cups flour 6 cups chopped cheese 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Make a white sauce of 
the butter, flour, milk, and seasonings, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Dissolve chopped or grated cheese 
in sauce. Put macaroni in baking dishes, pour over the 
sauce, lifting macaroni with fork to distribute it evenly. 
Cover with thin layer of buttered crumbs, using three cups 
stale crumbs and one-half cup butter. Do not use dried 
crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



Macaroni with Peanut Butter 

2 quarts macaroni 2^ cups peanut butter or 

4 quarts White Sauce I 2 one-and-one-half lb. jars 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Dissolve peanut butter 
in sauce while cooking in double boiler. Put macaroni in 
baking dishes, pour over the sauce, lifting macaroni with 
fork, in order to distribute it evenly. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. See Buttered 
Crumbs. 



CKKKAT^S 45 

Italian Macaroni 

2 quarts macaroni 2 cups cliopped mild green 

4 tablespoons salt pepper 

i^ cups bacon fat 2} cups chopped onion 

i^ cups flour 4 quarts strained tomato 

I pound cheese, if desired 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Cook onion and pepper 
in bacon fat until soft, but not brown. Add flour, stir until 
smooth, add hot tomato, and stir until it boils. Add salt 
and macaroni, reheat over hot water to prevent burning, 
and serve at once. 

Or put macaroni into earthen or enamel baking dishes, 
sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake until cheese is melted 
and slightly browned. 



Creole Spaghetti 

1} quarts spaghetti i tablespoon salt 

3 quarts canned tomato i^ cups butter 

3 cups chopped onion f cup flour 

6 pounds Hamburg steak 3 cups grated cheese 

Cook spaghetti as for Boiled Macaroni. Strain tomato 
and bring to boiling point. Slightly brown onion in butter, 
add flour and hot tomato, stirring constantly until smooth 
and boiled; or turn into double boiler and cook thirty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir steak in hot frying 
pan until slightly brown, then turn into sauce, add spa- 
ghetti and cheese. The cheese may be omitted. 



46 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Macaroni & la Milanaise 

2 quarts macaroni broken 5 bay leaves 

in inch pieces 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts corned beef or 2 quarts brown stock 

ham in small pieces i^ cups butter 

2 quarts strained tomato i onion chopped fine 

3 teaspoons peppercorns i^ cups flour 

Cook macaroni as in Boiled Macaroni. Cook tomatoes, 
peppercorns, bay leaves, and sugar together ten minutes ; 
strain. Melt butter, add onion, cook until soft, then stir 
in flour. Add stock and tomato, stirring all the time until 
it boils. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Water may 
be used instead of stock by dissolving in it enough beef 
extract to flavor it delicately. Put meat and macaroni 
into baking dishes, pour over the sauce, and bake twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 

Reheat Boiled Macaroni in Plain or Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce, allowing one quart sauce to three quarts 
cooked macaroni. 

Macaroni with Chicken 

4 quarts chicken stock 2 quarts macaroni 

i^ cups butter i quart cold chicken or 

i^ cups flour veal 

Salt to taste Grated cheese 

I teaspoon pepper 

Cook macaroni as for Boiled Macaroni. Cut chicken in 
small dice. Melt butter, add flour, stir ; add hot stock, stir 



CEREALS 47 

until smooth and thickened. Add macaroni and chicken, 
turn into baking dishes, cover with buttered cnrnibs, and 
bake twenty minutes, or until brown. The proportion of 
macaroni and chicken may be varied to suit taste or con- 
venience. Pass grated cheese with it if desired. 



Macaroni with Eggs 

24 hard-cooked eggs i^ cups butter 

i^ quarts macaroni i^ cups flour 

3 cups grated cheese 4 teaspoons salt 

4 quarts milk Paprika to taste 

Cook macaroni as for Boiled Macaroni. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, milk, and seasonings. Cut eggs 
in slices. Put layer of macaroni in bottom of buttered 
baking dishes, then sliced eggs, then another layer of 
macaroni, and over the whole pour white sauce in which 
cheese has been dissolved. Cover with buttered crumbs, 
using three cups soft, stale crumbs and one-half cup butter. 



Noodles with Cheese 

4 quarts noodles Salt to taste 

I or more pounds cheese i teaspoon pepper 

I cup butter i teaspoon paprika 

Cook noodles in plenty of salted water until soft, drain. 
Melt butter, add noodles, grated cheese, and seasonings. >'^' ^ 

Cook slowly on back of range, or with gas turned low> 
until cheese is melted and butter absorbed. Serve as a 
vegetable or luncheon dish. Noodles may be purchased 
ready for use, or made as follows : 



48 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Noodles 

Beat four eggs slightly, add two teaspoons salt, and 
flour to make a stiff dough. Knead on slightly-floured 
board, roll as thin as paper, cover with towel, and let stand 
for twenty minutes. Cut in fancy shapes ; or roll the sheet 
of dough like jelly roll, and cut in thin slices, then unroll. 
Dry, and it is ready for use* 



\ 



BEVERAGES 

General Directions 

Wash and scald coffee and tea bags in clear water, dry 
in the open air if possible. They should be renewed often. 

Scald coffee and tea pots^ and cheesecloth squares or 
bags, before using. Boil pots with sal soda water once 
in two weeks or oftener. 

Wash eggs before using and save the shells for settling 
coffee. 

Breakfast Coffee 

Put four cups coffee in cheesecloth square or bag, and 
tie so as to leave plenty of room for coffee to swell. Put 
coffee, twelve or more crushed egg shells, and nine quarts 
cold water in coffee boiler ; let stand over night In morn- 
ing bring slowly to a boil, boil from three to five minutes, 
turn in one cup cold water, and let stand until clear. 
Strain into coffee pots and bring again to boiling point 
before serving. Serve with cream or hot, rich milk. 

After-Dinner Coffee 

4} cups coffee 2 cups cold water 

3 ^;gs 4i quarts boiling water 

Mix slightly beaten egg^ crushed shell, and cold water 
with coffee, turn into coffee boiler, add boiling water, and 
stir thoroughly. Boil three to five minutes. Pour some 
into a cup to remove grounds from spout ; repeat if neces- 
sary. Add remaining cold water, let stand on back of 

49 



50 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

range until perfectly clear. Strain into coffee pots, bring 
again to boiling point, and serve at once. Serve in after- 
dinner coffee cups, with or without cut sugar. 

If very strong coffee is desired, use six cups coffee and 
four eggs. 

Tea I 

Put two tablespoons tea in scalded pot, pour on two 
quarts boiling water. Steep three to five minutes, strain, 
and serve. 

Tea II 

i cup tea 9 quarts boiling water 

Put tea in a square or bag of cheesecloth, tied so as to 
leave room for tea to swell. Put into scalded urn or pot, 
add boiling water, steep five or six minutes, remove bag. 
Or have water boiling in pot, immerse bag in boiling water, 
and let steep on back of range, as above. 

Iced Tea 

i} cups tea 6 quarts boiling water 

8 quarts cold water Ice 

Follow recipe for Tea II, letting tea steep six to eight 
minutes. Cool, add cold water, and serve from pitchers 
half full of ice. Serve with lemon. 

Breakfast Cocoa 

I cup cocoa 3i quarts boiling water 

I pint lukewarm water 4 quarts hot milk 

Mix cocoa and lukewarm water until smooth, pour on 
boiling water, boil five minutes. Add to hot milk in double 
boiler, beat with Dover egg beater until foamy, to prevent 
scum forming, cook twenty to thirty minutes. 



BEVERAGES 5 I 

Left-over cocoa may be used in place of fresh liquid. 
Reheat it in double boiler with milk, and for each pint use 
one tablespoon less cocoa. 

Reception Cocoa 

i^ cups cocoa i teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar i quart boiling water 

I pint lukewarm water 8 quarts hot milk 

Scald milk. Mix cocoa, sugar, salt, and lukewarm 
water ; add boiling water and boil five minutes. Pour into 
hot milk, beat until foamy, keep hot in double boiler until 
ready to serve. Serve with whipped cream, using one 
quart heavy cream diluted with one cup milk, and flavored 
with one tablespoon sugar and three-fourths teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Reception Chocolate 

1 pound chocolate i^ pounds sugar 

2 quarts boiling water 8 quarts hot milk 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add boiling water, stir 
until smooth. Boil ten minutes, or cook one hour in double 
boiler, add sugar and one*f ourth teaspoon salt. Turn into 
hot milk, beat until foamy, and serve with whipped cream. 

Lemonade 

30 to 36 lemons or 2 pounds sugar 

i^ quarts lemon juice 9 quarts water 

Mix sugar and lemon juice, add cold water, and stir 
until dissolved. Put in a large piece of ice, and let stand 
thirty or forty minutes before serving. 



52 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fruit Punch 

1 pint grated pineapple i pint strawberry juice 

2 pounds sugar 8 lemons 

3 cups boiling water 6 oranges 

I pint hot tea 7 quarts cold water 

G)ok pineapple, sugar, and boiling water together fifteen 
minutes, add tea and strain. When cold add fruit juice 
and cold water, adding ice a short time before serving. 
Maraschino or candied cherries, strawberries, or mint 
leaves may be used as garnish. This recipe makes about 
ten quarts. 



EGGS 

Soft-Cooked Eggs 

Have a large kettle of boiling water : three quarts for 
each dozen eggs and one extra quart for the kettle. Put 
eggs into an egg basket, let basket down into boiling water, 
cover closely, and turn off gas, or remove to back of range 
to prevent boiling, but keep water at a temperature of 
17s** if possible. Cook from six to eight minutes if liked 
soft, forty to forty-five minutes if wanted hard. If several 
dozen eggs are to be cooked at once, it is sometimes neces- 
sary to use two smaller kettles and baskets, instead of one 
large one. If both hard and soft eggs are wanted at same 
time, it is easier to cook them in separate utensils. Hard- 
cooked eggs which are to be used in preparing other dishes 
should be plunged at once into cold water, when done, to 
prevent discoloration. 

Poached Eggs 

Have a large, shallow pan two-thirds full of boiling 
salted water, allowing one tablespoon salt to two quarts 
water. Break eggs into shaltow dish and slip carefully 
into water, which should not be allowed to boil while eggs 
are cooking. The eggs should be covered with water. 
Cook until white is firm and there is a film over top; 
remove with skimmer to pieces of buttered toast One or 
two tablespoons of vinegar in the water helps to prevent 
the spreading of the whites. Egg poachers may be used 
instead of the shallow pans. 

S3 



54 RECIPES AND MENU$ FOR FIFTY 

Baked Eggs 

Butter egg shirrers or ramekins. Break an egg into 
each, season with salt and pepper, and bake in moderate 
oven until whites are firm. The dishes may be lined with 
grated cheese or chopped ham before putting in eggs. Or 
a spoonful of hot tomato sauce may be put over each egg 
before serving. 

Pried Eggs 

Put enough melted bacon or ham fat in f r3ring pans to 
cover bottom to depth of half an inch or more. Break 
eggs into saucer or other shallow dish, slip into hot fat, 
dipping it over them until white is firm and there is a 
film over top. Keep fat at as low a temperature as possible. 
Remove with skimmer to platter. Serve alone or with 
bacon or ham. 



Poached Eggs with Minced Tongue 

3 quarts soup stock i cup minced onion 

i^ cups butter 4 tablespoons tomato 
i^ cups flour catsup 

2 or 3 quarts minced Salt and pepper to taste 

tongue Poached eggs 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft, turn in flour, and 
stir till smooth; add stock and seasonings and stir until 
thickened. If stock is not very rich, add a little kitchen 
bouquet. Reheat minced tongue in this sauce. Arrange 
slices of toast on hot platters, pour over these the hot 
mixture, put a poached egg on each piece of toast, and 
serve at once. 



EGGS 55 

Poached Eggs with Cream Toast 

3 quarts rich milk 3 teaspoons salt 

^ij cups butter Poached eggs 

I J cups flour Toast 

Make a sauce of first four ingredients, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Arrange moistened toast on hot 
platters, pour over it the sauce, place poached egg on each 
piece of toast. Seive at once. 

Cream Omelet 

2 cups butter 5 teaspoons salt 

2 cups flour i teaspoon pepper 

3 quarts milk 24 eggs 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, fol- 
fowing directions for White Sauces. When cool, add salt 
and well-beaten yolks, then fold in the whites, which have 
been beaten until stiff. Put into six earthen or enamel 
baking dishes and cook about forty-five minutes in moder- 
ate oven. The omelet should be firm throughout and 
golden brown on top. Serve at once in the baking dishes. 

Bread Omelet 

48 eggs 6 teaspoons salt 

5 cups milk I teaspoon pepper 

5 cups stale bread crumbs J cup butter 

Use broken pieces and crusts of stale bread, cutting off 
any brown or burned parts of crusts. Soak over night in 
milk. In morning add beaten yolks and seasonings; cut 
and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. Cook and serve as Cream 
Omelet 



S6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Spanish Omelet 

Make Cream, Bread, or Plain Omelet, and serve with 
it Spanish Sauce. Spanish Sauce: Cook together, very 
slowly, one cup finely-chopped bacon, three-fourths cup 
each of finely-chopped onion and mild green pepper, until 
onion is soft and yellow. Add two quarts tomatoes and 
cook until moisture has nearly evaporated. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper. If desired, five tablespoons sliced 
mushrooms may also be added. 

Rice Omelet 

3 quarts cooked rice 3 tablespoons salt 

3 quarts warm milk i teaspoon pepper 
J cup melted butter 4 dozen eggs 

Add melted butter, seasonings, and warm milk to rice ; 
mix well and add well-beaten eggs. Cook and serve as 
Cream Omelet. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

4 dozen eggs i teaspoon paprika 
3 quarts strained tomato 2 cups butter 

5 tablespoons sugar i cup minced onion 

4 teaspoons salt 

Fry butter and onion three minutes, add tomatoes and 
sugar, and simmer five minutes. Put slightly-beaten eggs 
in double boiler, add tomato. Cook over hot water until 
of creamy consistency, stirring and scraping from bottom 
of kettle as it thickens. It will probably require from thirty 
to thirty-five minutes. If ready too soon, keep over water 
which is below boiling point. 



EGGS 57 

Scrambled Eggs 

2 quarts milk i cup butter 

4 dozen eggs 2} tablespoons salt 

Heat milk and butter in double boiler. When hot, add 
well-beaten eggs and salt, and cook until it thickens, stir- 
ring and scraping the thickened mixture from the bottom 
and sides as fast as it forms. It requires from twenty-five 
to thirty minutes for it to thicken to a creamy consistency. 
If cooked too long, it will whey. Minced ham, shredded 
dried beef, or minced parsley may be added just before 
serving. 

Creamed Eggs 

4 quarts milk 4 teaspoons salt 

2 cups butter 48 hard-cooked eggs 

2 cups flour i teaspoon pepper 

Make a white sauce of the first three ingredients, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. Add salt and chopped 
whites to the sauce. Toast half slices of white bread, dip 
in salted water, put on platter, and cover with sauce. 
Strain yolks over the top, using a coarse strainer or a 
potato ricer. Put toast in oven a few minutes to reheat. 
Chopped ham may be added to sauce if desired. 

Curried Eggs 

4 quarts milk i teaspoon pepper 
2 cups butter 5 or more teaspoons curry 

2 cups flour 48 hard-cooked eggs cut 
4 teaspoons salt in slices 

Make a white sauce of the first three ingredients. Mix 
salt, pepper, and curry together and add to sauce. Pile 



58 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

sliced eggs in center of platters, put a border of boiled or 
steamed rice around outside, and pour sauce over eggs. 
Unless very hot, put in oven two or three minutes to re- 
heat. If desired, triangles of toasted bread, instead of 
rice, may be served around the eggs. 

Eggs Scalloped with Peas 

4 quarts milk i teaspoon pepper 

li cups butter 36 hard-cooked eggs 

i^ cups flour 4 quarts canned peas 

3 teaspoons salt 4 cups buttered crumbs 

Make a white sauce of the first five ingredients, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Drain peas and season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and sugar. Put a layer of peas 
in baking dishes, then a layer of sliced eggs, pour over the 
sauce, and cover with a thin layer of buttered crumbs. 
Bake twenty minutes. 



SOUPS 

Clear soups contain chiefly the flavoring constituents 
of the meat from which they are obtained. They are of 
very little nutritive value, but the extractives and gelatine 
which they contain promote the flow of gastric juice and 
so aid digestion. A ''thick" or cream soup contains more 
nutriment ; therefore, choose a clear soup if a substantial 
meal is to follow, but if soup is to be the main dish, it 
should be a thick one. 

To Prepare Stock 

Allow two-thirds lean meat to one-third bone and fat, 
wipe the meat with a cloth wrung out of cold water. Cut 
lean meat into one-inch pieces. Put the fat, bone, and 
two-thirds of the lean meat into a kettle, add cold water, 
allowing one pint to each pound of meat, bone and fat. 
Let stand thirty to sixty minutes. Heat a frying pan hiss- 
ing hot, put in a little marrow or suet, to prevent sticking, 
brown one-third of the meat, stirring often, that all parts 
of the surface may be seared. Add this brown meat to the 
first, rinsing out frying pan with a little water from the 
kettle. Heat gradually to the boiling point, and cook six 
or seven hours at a low temperature. 

Vegetables, spices, and salt should be added the last 
hour. Strain and cool quickly. The cake of fat which 
forms on the top of the stock should not be removed till 
the stock is used, as it excludes all air. To remove fat 
which forms, run a knife around the edge of the bowl, 

59 



6o RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

then lift it out The particles of fat remaining should be 
removed by passing a cloth wrung out of hot water around 
the edge of the receptacle and over top of the stock. 

How to Clear Soup Stock 

Remove fat from stock and put the quantity to be cleared 
in stew pan, allowing white and shell of one egg to two 
quarts of stock. Beat eggs slightly, break shell into small 
pieces, mix with one cup cold water, and add to stock. 
Place on front of range and stir constantly until boiling 
point is reached ; boil two minutes. Set back where it may 
simmer twenty minutes, remove scum and strain through 
double thickness of cheesecloth placed over a fine strainer. 

Soup Stock 

Take a five-pound soup bone and ten pounds or more 
of bones, trimmings, and pieces of meat from cooked 
roasts, steaks, chops, etc. Wash soup bone, cut burned 
parts from cooked meats, put into soup kettle with twelve 
quarts water, simmer six hours. Strain, cool, remove fat, 
and use as foundation for Vegetable, Noodle, or other 
soups requiring stock. 

Bouillon 

Make Soup Stock, using five pounds raw meat in addi- 
tion to that on soup bone. Simmer slowly six hours, add 
four teaspoons peppercorns, four tablespoons salt, one and 
one-half cups each of diced carrot, turnip, celery, and 
onbn. Cook one hour, strain, cool, remove fat, and clarify. 

Turkey or Chicken Soup 

After serving roast turkey or chicken, remove any 
stuffing or pieces of white meat, break bones, and put into 



SOUPS 6i 

stock kettle with leaves, roots, and outside pieces of celery 
and uncooked ends of wings or pieces of necks. For three 
or four large turkeys add three gallons cold water, cover, 
and simmer slowly two to four hours. If allowed to boil, 
the soup will be clouded and less delicate in flavor. 

Strain, remove fat, season with salt, pepper, and onion 
juice. Add white meat cut in half-inch pieces and three 
cups boiled rice. 

Vegetable Soup with Stock 

lo quarts stock ^ teaspoon pepper 

1 cup each carrots, i tablespoon celery salt 

turnips, parsnips, i cup rice cooked in 

and cabbage i quart water 

i cup onion I quart stewed and strained 

2 quarts boiling water tomato 

Wash, pare, and chop vegetables, or put them through 
meat grinder ; cook in boiling water until soft. Wash and 
boil rice, then add rice and vegetables, with water in which 
they were cooked, to stock. Add tomato and seasonings ; 
serve very hot. 

Vegetable Soup without Stock / 

I quart carrot 12 quarts water 

I quart turnip 3 cups butter 

li quarts celery 6 tablespoons finely- 
4i quarts potato chopped parsley 

6 onions Salt and pepper 

Wash and pare carrots and turnips; cut in strips one 
inch long and one-fourth inch wide, or put through meat 
grinder. Wash, pare, and cut potatoes in small pieces. 




62 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut onion in thin slices and celery in quarter-inch pieces. 
Measure vegetables after cutting ; mix all except potatoes, 
and cook ten minutes in butter, stirring constantly. Turn 
into soup kettle, add potatoes and water ; cook one hour. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper, add parsley, and 
serve at once, boiling hot. 

Potato Soup 

8 pounds potatoes 6 tablespoons salt 

lo quarts hot milk 3 teaspoons celery salt 

2 quarts water or stock ij teaspoons pepper 

4 medium onions 2 cups butter 

4 tablespoons chopped i^ cups flour 

parsley i teaspoon cayenne 

Cook potatoes and sliced onion in water or stock until 
soft, then put through strainer without draining. Make 
a white sauce of the milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauces. Add sauce to potato and 
seasonings, bring to boiling point, sprinkle with parsley, 
serve. 

Celery Soup 

8 quarts celery 2 chopped onions 

5i quarts boiling water 2 cups butter 

7 quarts scalded milk 2| cups flour 

Salt to taste i teaspoon pepper 

Wash, scrape, and cut celery in half-inch pieces, cook 
with onion in boiling water until quite soft, rub through 
sieve. Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter, add flour, 
and when smooth stir into milk and let cook thirty minutes, 
stirring occasionally until perfectly smooth. Have celery 
mixture boiling, add milk, season, and serve with crackers 
or croutons. 



SOUPS 63 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 

6 pounds cabbage i^ cups butter 

6 quarts boiling water i^ cups flour 

6 quarts milk 5 or more tablespoons salt 

I teaspoon pepper 

Chop cabbage fine, add water and salt, cook until soft. 
Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauce. Just before serving, turn 
the two mixtures together, add pepper, more salt, if needed, 
and one-half cup butter. If water cooks away very much 
in boiling, add a little more. Serve with croutons or 
crackers. 

Com Soup 

8 cans com i^ cups butter 

3 quarts boiling water i^ cups flour 

7 quarts milk 5 or more tablespoons salt 
2 small onions i teaspoon pepper 

Chop onion fine, add water and com, simmer twenty 
minutes, stirring often. Make a white sauce of the milk, 
flour, and butter, following directions for White Sauces. 
Just before serving, turn the two mixtures together, bring 
to boil, add seasonings, and serve. 

A Cream of Com Soup may be made of this by rubbing 
com mixture through sieve before adding it to the white 
sauce. Serve with a spoonful of popcorn or of whipped 
cream on top of each dish of soup. 

Cream of Green Pea Soup 

2 gallon cans peas 2 onions sliced 

7 tablespoons sugar i^ cups butter 

5 quarts cold water i^ cups flour 

5 quarts milk 3 or more tablespoons salt 

I teaspoon pepper 



64 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Drain peas, add sugar and cold water, and simmer until 
peas are very soft; if water evaporates, add more. Rub 
through sieve, reheat, and thicken with butter and flour 
cooked together. Scald milk with onion, remove onion, 
and add milk to pea mixture. Season to taste, serve very 
hot. 

Split Pea Soup 

2 quarts split, dried peas 3 onions 

7 quarts cold water i cup butter 

3 quarts ham or corned i cup flour 

beef stock 2 quarts hot milk 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Pick over peas, soak over night, drain. Cook water, 
stock, onion, and peas together slowly three or four hours, 
or until peas are very soft. Rub through sieve and thicken 
with flour and butter which have been rubbed together. 
Bring to boiling point, add seasonings and hot milk* 
Beans may be used in place of split peas. 

Lima Bean Soup 

if quarts dried Lima if cups butter 

beans i cup flour 

I cup chopped onion 5 quarts milk 

6 sprigs parsley Salt and paprika to taste 

6 stalks celery 4 or more teaspoons 

I cup chopped carrot Worcestershire sauce 

7 quarts cold water i teaspoon pepper 

Soak beans over night, drain. Add water, onion, celery, 
parsley, and carrot, and cook slowly three or four hours ; 
rub through sieve. Melt butter, add flour and milk, and 
cook thirty minutes in double boiler. Add seasonings, 



\ 

I 



SOUPS 65 

combine mixtures, bring to boiling point, serve. Pea beans, 
instead of Lima beans, may be used for this soup. 

Baked Bean Soup 

4 quarts cold Boston 2 quarts stewed and 
baked beans strained tomato 

9 quarts cold water f cup butter 

I cup sliced onion f cup flour 

12 stalks celery Salt and pepper to taste 

Cook beans, water, onion, and celery together slowly 
thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add strained tomato, 
thicken with butter and flour cooked together ; season to 
taste with salt and pepper. 

Cream of Cheese Soup 

6 quarts chicken stock 6 cups grated cheese 

6 quarts milk f teaspoon soda 

i^ cups butter i teaspoon paprika 

i^ cups flour Salt to ta!ste 

Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauces. Add hot stock, soda, cheese, 
and seasonings. Serve as soon as cheese is melted. 

Tomato Soup 

2 gallon cans tomato 6 tablespoons sugar 

6 quarts water i teaspoon soda 

2 teaspoons peppercorns i cup butter 

6 small bay leaves 1} cups flour 

1 teaspoon cloves Salt 

2 onions Pepper 

Cook together the first seven ingredients twenty minutes, 
strain, and add soda. Thicken with butter and flour 



66 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

cooked together, and season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Serve boiling hot. 



Cream of Tomato Soup 

6 quarts canned tomato 3 teaspoons soda 

I teaspoon peppercorns 6 quarts milk 

3 bay leaves 1} cups butter 

3 sprigs parsley 1} cups flour 

I large onion Salt 

6 tablespoons sugar Pepper 

Stew iirst six ingredients together for thirty minutes, 
strain, and add soda. Make a white sauce of milk, butter, 
and flour, cooking it thirty minutes in double boiler. Add 
hot strained tomato and seasonings, and serve at once. 

Oyster Stew 

8 quarts milk 2 cups butter 

6 to 8 quarts oysters i teaspoon pepper 

3} tablespoons salt Crackers 

Pick over oysters carefully, removing any bits of shell ; 
place in colander, pour over cold water, using six cups 
in all. Reserve oyster liquor, heat to boiling point, and 
strain through double cheesecloth. Heat milk in double 
boiler to scalding point, add oysters, and cook until oysters 
are plump and g^Us curled; add seasonings and oyster 
liquor, and pour at once into tureens. If desired, split 
crackers may be placed in bottom of tureens before turn- 
ing in stew. The oysters may be cooked in oyster liquor 
and added to milk just before serving, if preferred. 



SOUPS 67 

Potato Chowder 

5 quarts diced potatoes 3 quarts water 
I cup flour 2 pounds bacon 

I cup bacon fat 2 cups chopped onion 

8 quarts milk 4 tablespoons chopped 

5 tablespoons salt parsley 

I teaspoon pepper 

Pare and cut potatoes in small pieces or half-inch dice. 
Cut bacon in half-inch cubes, and cook slowly until crisp 
and light brown. Skim out bacon and stir flour into one 
and one-fourth cups of the fat. Put potatoes, bacon, 
onion, water, salt, and pepper into large stew kettle, cover, 
and simmer twenty minutes, or until potatoes are soft. 
Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, and bacon fat, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. Combine mixtures, 
add more seasonings if needed, put into tureens with split 
crackers in bottom, sprinkle parsley over top. Serve very 
hot. 

Com Chowder 

5 quarts diced potatoes 5 cans com 

5 slices salt pork } cup flour 

5 medium-sized onions 6 tablespoons salt 

3 quairts boiling water i teaspoon pepper 

7 quarts milk f cup butter 

Cut pork in half-inch cubes, and cook slowly t^ntil light 
brown and crisp ; add onion and cook slowly five minutes. 
Put potatoes, pork cubes, onion, and boiling water into 
kettle, and cook until potatoes are soft. Stir flour into the 
fat which was tried out from pork, then add to milk which 
has been heated in double boiler; cook twenty minutes. 
Add com to potatoes, cook a few minutes, add milk, 
seasonings, and split crackers. 



/ 



68 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fish Chowder 

12 or more pounds cod 5 tablespoons salt 

or other white fish i teaspoon pepper 

5 quarts diced potatoes i cup butter 

5 sliced onions 5 quarts scalded milk 

5 slices salt pork 2^ quarts boiling water 

^ 2| quarts cold water Crackers 

Have fish skinned, but head and tail left on. Cut off 
head and tail and remove fish from backbone. Cut fish 
in two-inch pieces. Put head, tail, and backbone broken in 
pieces into kettle with cold water, bring slowly to boiling 
point, and simmer twenty minutes. Cut salt pork in half- 
inch cubes, cook slowly until yellow, add onion, and cook 
five minutes with gas turned low. Put potatoes, pork, 
onion, drippings, and boiling water into large kettle, boil 
five minutes, add fish and fish stock, and cook ten minutes. 
Add hot milk, salt to taste, pepper, butter, and crackers 
which have been soaked in cold milk or water. If cooked 
fish is used for chowder, do not put pieces of fish in until 
a few minutes before serving, for they will only need 
reheating. 

Clam Chowder 

4 or 5 quarts clams i cup flour 

5 quarts diced potatoes 5 tablespoons salt 
5 slices fat salt pork i J cups butter 

3 cups chopped onion 6 quarts scalded milk 
3i quarts water i teaspoon pepper 

Wash and pick over clams, drain. Chop finely hard 
part of clams. Cut potatoes in three-fourths inch cubes. 
Cut pork in half-inch cubes and cook slowly with onion 
ten minutes. Cook potatoes, onion, pork, chopped clams, 



SOUPS 69 

salt, pepper, and water fifteen minutes ; add soft part of 
clams, cook three minutes. Make a white sauce of milk, 
butter, and flour. Combine mixtures and add crackers 
soaked in cold milk. If clam liquor is used, it should be 
heated, strained, and added just before serving. 

Bean Stew 

2 quarts kidney beans 4 quarts water 

I gallon tomatoes i cup butter 

1 quart celery 4 quarts diced potatoes 

2 cups onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Soak beans over night, drain. Cut celery in half-inch 
pieces, chop onion, strain tomatoes. Put first five ingredi- 
ents together into large stew kettle, bring to boiling point, 
then simmer slowly five or more hours. If stew is to be 
used for the midday meal, it would be well to let cook all 
night in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven. About forty- 
five minutes before serving, add potatoes, butter, and 
seasonings. 

Mexican Chili 

2 quarts red kidney beans i quart tomatoes 

4 pounds Hamburg steak 3 large chopped onions 

i pound suet Salt and Chili powder 
8 or more quarts water to taste 

Wash and soak beans for several hours, drain. Add five 
quarts water and cook slowly until soft. They may be 
cooked all night in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven. Cut 
suet in very small pieces, add steak and three quarts or 
more water, cook slowly three hours. When half done, 
add strained tomatoes and onion. Half an hour before 
serving add beans and seasonings. Serve with crackers 
and cucumber pickles. 



70 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Parsnip Stew 

3 or 4 pounds fresh raw lo quarts water 

or roast pork i8 medium-size parsnips 

i pound salt pork 8 pounds potatoes 

6 medium onions Salt and pepper to taste 

Remove any burned parts from roast pork, add water, 
and cook slowly one hour, or until meat is tender ; strain 
liquor into large kettle, cut meat in small pieces. Cut salt 
pork in half-inch dice, add sliced onion, and cook slowly 
until pork is- crisp and onion is yellow. Wash, peel, and 
cut parsnips in slices. If slices are very large, quarter 
them. Turn salt pork, onion, and parsnips into kettle with 
pork stock ; cook thirty minutes, add potatoes cut in small 
slices or pieces ; cook thirty minutes longer, or until vege- 
tables are quite soft Mix three-fourths cup flour with 
cold water until free from lumps, stir into stew, boil three 
minutes. Add meat, and salt and pepper to taste. 



FISH 

Fish must be perfectly fresh ; the flesh should be firm, 
the gills red, and the eyes bright. Frozen fish may be 
kept a long time, but must be used at once when thawed, 
as it spoils more quickly than fresh fish. Do not keep fish 
in refrigerator with milk, butter, and such foods, on ac- 
count of the odor. Have an ice box or cold storage room 
for fish, meat, etc. In case there is no provision made for 
such foods, put fish in a tightly-covered tin receptacle 
before placing in refrigerator. 

Although fish are cleaned at market, additional clean- 
ing is usually necessary. Remove any scales by scraping 
slowly from tail toward head, holding knife nearly flat 
on fish. Rinse knife often in cold water. Remove with a 
sharp knife any clots of blood. Wipe fish thoroughly inside 
and out with a cloth wrung out of cold salted water. Do 
not put fish into water. 

To skin a fish: With a sharp knife cut off a narrow strip 
of skin the whole length of back, removing also the fins 
along the back. Insert a sharp-pointed knife under the 
skin near the g^Us, and loosen the skin carefully by work- 
ing the knife down toward the tail on one side, then turn 
fish and remove skin from other side. 

When fish are in season: Cod, haddock, halibut, floun- 
ders, bass, pickerel, lobster, and clams are in season at all 
times; salmon and mackerel, May to September; shad, 
January to June ; bluefish. May to October ; perch, pike, 
sturgeon, and crabs, all summer; whitefish and cusk in 
winter; swordfish, July to September; turbot, January 

71 



72 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to March ; smelts, September to March ; oysters, Septem- 
ber to May. 

Cooking and serving of fish: Fish is sufficiently cooked 
when the flesh begins to separate from the bones. Over- 
boiling makes it soft and watery. Salt and vinegar or 
lemon juice are often added to the water in which fish 
is boiled ; the former improves the flavor, the latter keeps 
the flesh white. Fish should always be served with some- 
thing acid. This may be in a sauce, such as Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter or HoUandaise Sauce, or in a garnish of lemon or 
pickle, or in a vegetable accompanying the fish, as fresh 
cucumbers or a salad. Of the many garnishes for fish, the 
following are easily prepared : parsley, watercress, shreds 
of red or green pepper; slices of lemon, plain or sprinkled 
with finely-chopped parsley ; hard-cooked eggs, tomatoes, 
cucumbers, stuffed olives, or sliced pickles. 

Boiled Fish 

Qean fish as directed. Place on rack of fish kettle, or 
tie in cheesecloth and drop in a large kettle half full of 
boiling water. Cover kettle and simmer gently the re- 
quired time, which varies with size and thickness of fish. 
See Time-table. Small cod, haddock, bass, cusk, and 
salmon are cooked whole ; large fish, such as halibut, are 
cut in thick pieces. When done, place on platters, remove 
dark skin, garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and 
serve with Egg Sauce ; or garnish with parsley and eggs, 
and serve with Pickle Sauce. 

Steamed Fish 

Wrap fish in pieces of cheesecloth. Lay on plates in 
steamer, and cook until flesh separates from bone. Serve 
as Boiled Fish. 



FISH 73 

Broiled Fish 

Clean fish as directed, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and put in well-greased wire broiler. Slices of fish should 
be turned often while cooking ; whole fish should be first 
broiled on flesh side, then turned, and cooked on skin side 
long enough to brown and crisp the skin. Loosen fish on 
both sides, slip from broiler to hot platter. Spread white 
fish with Maitre d'Hotel Butter ; oily fish with plain butter 
and more salt if needed. Garnish as desired. 

Cod, haddock, bluefish, shad, cusk, or mackerel are split 
down the back and broiled whole, with or without the head 
and tail. Salmon, swordfish, and halibut are cut in inch 
slices for broiling. Smelts and other small fish are left 
whole. Cod and haddock are usually scrodded for broil- 
ing — that is, split down the back and boned. 

To Broil with Gas 

Qean six four-pound fish as directed, brush skin side 
of fish generously with pork drippings, sprinkle flesh 
side with salt and pepper. Grease thoroughly rack in 
broiling oven, lay fish on rack with skin side down. Cook 
twenty to thirty minutes, or until flakes begin to separate 
and flesh is delicately browned. Do not turn. When done, 
loosen fish from rack, place on platters, spread with 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, if a white fish ; or with plain butter, 
if a dark or oily fish. Slices of fish may be laid on a well- 
greased shallow pan, instead of on the rack, if desired. 

Baked Fish with Stuffing 

Cod, haddock, cusk, bluefish, mackerel, etc., may be 
cooked in this way. Clean six four-pound fish, sprinkle 



74 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

inside and out with salt, stuff and sew. If white fish, cut 
gashes on each side of backbone and insert strips of fat 
sah pork. Shape in form of letter S, fastening with 
skewers and twine. Or the head, tail, and backbone may 
be removed, the fish stuffed, and laid flat in pan. Place 
on greased fish-sheet or on bottom of dripping pans. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush with melted butter 
or pork drippings, dredge with flour, and place around 
fish small pieces of fat salt pork. Baste often while 
baking. See Time-table on page 82. Serve with Drawn 
Butter, Egg, or HoUandaise Sauce. 

Plain Stuffing . 

6 cups cracker or bread i^ teaspoons salt 

crumbs J teaspoon pepper 

i^ cups melted butter ij cups hot water 

Mix ingredients in order given. This stuffing may be 
varied by adding six teaspoons each of parsley, capers, 
and pickles, and a little onion juice. This quantity is 
sufficient for six four-pound fish. 

Oyster Stuffing 

6 cups cracker crumbs 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

li cups melted butter 3 tablespoons finely- 
2i teaspoons salt chopped parsley 

J teaspoon pepper 4 cups oysters 

Clean and drain oysters, mix with crumbs and season- 
ings, moisten with melted butter and a little oyster liquor, 
if needed. 

Baked Fish without Stuffing 

Spread pork drippings, or thin slices of salt pork, in the 
bottom of agate dripping pans. Lay on this slices of large 



FISH 75 

fish, or smaller fish which have been split open and boned. 
Spread with melted butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Bake in a hot oven until the flakes begin to separate. 
Remove to hot platters, spread with plain or Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter, garnish, and serve. 

Or bake until nearly done, then pour over fish rich milk 
or thin cream, allowing one cup to a fish; finish baking 
and serve. 

Halibut a la Creole 

i8 pounds halibut 3 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts tomatoes I cup butter 

I quart water i cup flour 

6 slices onion i tablespoon salt 

6 tablespoons mild pepper i teaspoon paprika 

Cook tomato, water, onion, pepper, and sugar together 
twenty minutes. Melt butter, add flour, stir into hot mix- 
ture. Add salt and paprika, cook ten minutes, and strain. 
Cut fish into six pieces, clean, put into baking dishes, pour 
over it the sauce, cover, bake thirty-five minutes. Remove 
to platters, pouring sauce over fish. If halibut is cooked 
whole, a longer time should be allowed for baking. 

Fried Fish 

Small fish are cooked whole ; large fish are divided into 
sections or slices of any desired size. Clean, wipe dry, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then in egg and 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain. 

Or roll in flour or commeal, and saute in salt pork drip- 
pings in frying pan. 



76 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Kippered Herrings 

Remove fish from eight cans of kippered herrings. Lay 
in shallow agate pans or on platters that can be put in 
oven. Sprinkle with pepper and lemon juice, pour over 
the liquor from cans, put in oven until well heated, and 
garnish with parsley and lemon slices. 

Buttered Finnan Haddie 

Put six four-pound fish in large pan, cover with cold 
water, bring to boiling point, and simmer slowly twenty- 
five minutes; drain. Put on platters, spread generously 
with butter, put in oven until butter is melted. 



SHELLFISH 

To Parboil Oysters 

Qean oysters by putting into a colander or strainer, 
pouring a small amount of cold water through them and 
removing any pieces of shell. 

Put one quart oysters at a time in saucepan, add one- 
half teaspoon salt, and shake over fire until gills are curled 
and oysters plump. 

Raw Oysters 

Use small, plump oysters, allowing six to each person. 
Clean shells thoroughly and serve oysters on deep halves. 
Arrange on plates of crushed ice, with valve end of shells 
toward center of plate, and with a slice of lemon in the 
center. 



FISH 77 



Fried Oysters 

Clean one and one-half gallons oysters, dry on a towel ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper ; dip in flour or fine crumbs, 
egg> and crumbs again. Fry in hot fat, drain, and serve 
at once. Or saut£ in butter or bacon fat in a frying pan. 



Panned Oysters 

Clean and drain two gallons oysters. Melt two table- 
spoons butter in a hot frying pan, add one pint oysters, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring constantly, 
until edges curl. Turn into double boiler to keep hot, but 
keep water in lower part just below boiling point, or 
oysters will be cooked too much. Continue tmtil all the 
oysters are cooked. Serve on toast, moistening with oyster 
liquor. 

Creamed Oysters 

4 quarts milk and oyster 4 quarts oysters 

liquor i teaspoon celery salt or 

2 cups butter 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

2i cups flour I cup chopped mush- 

4 teaspoons salt rooms if desired 

i teaspoon pepper 

Parboil oysters, drain ; add enough rich milk to strained 
oyster liquor to make four quarts. Make a white sauce of 
the first four ingredients, following directions for White 
Sauce. Add pepper, celery salt or lemon juice, and oysters. 
When very hot, serve on well-toasted bread which has been 
moistened in hot salted water. 



78 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Oysters 

6 quarts oysters 6 cups cracker crumbs 

li cups oyster liquor 3 cups melted butter 

} cup milk or cream Salt 

3 cups stale bread crumbs Pepper 

Mix bread and cracker crumbs and stir in butter. Put 
a thin layer in bottom of buttered baking dishes, cover 
with cleaned oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper ; repeat. 
Dip oyster liquor and cream over top, cover with remain- 
ing crumbs. Bake thirty minutes in hot oven. A little 
finely-chopped celery is an improvement. There should 
never be more than two layers to a dish for scalloped 
oysters. 

Steamed Clams 

Wash and scrub clam shells, changing the water several 
times. Put into large kettle, allowing one cup hot water 
to one peck clams. Cover closely and cook until shells 
open, remove at once from fire or clams will be overcooked. 
Serve hot with melted butter. 

Scalloped Clams 

6 quarts clams i cup melted butter 

6 quarts cracker crumbs Paprika to taste 

Salt to taste 18 well-beaten eggs 

Drain the liquor from clams and set aside. Chop clams 
fine. Moisten cracker crumbs with equal parts of clam 
liquor and milk. Season with paprika and salt to taste, 
add melted butter, well-beaten eggs, and clams. Mix 
thoroughly and put into well-greased baking dishes. Bake 
tmtil brown. 



FISH 79 

Lobster 

To open a lobster: Wipe it, break off the claws, separate 
tail from body by twisting and pulling at same time. 
Remove meat from body; save the liver and coral, but 
discard stomach and lungs. Break the large claws, or if 
shell is soft, cut with scissors, and remove meat whole. 
Crush the tail shell and remove meat in one piece ; cut the 
meat open lengthwise and remove intestinal canal. 

Lobster should be cooked only long enough to heat it 
through, or it will be tough. 

Creamed Lobster 

Remove meat from shell and cut in cubes or small pieces. 
Make White Sauce II, allowing one quart sauce for each 
quart meat. Season with salt, paprika, chopped parsley, 
and lemon juice. Add lobster meat, reheat, and serve on 
toast or in patty shells. 

Scalloped Lobster 

Prepare as for Creamed Lobster, using White Sauce I ; 
put in baking dishes, ramekins, or scallop shells, cover with 
buttered crumbs, bake until crumbs are delicately browned. 

Deviled Lobster 

Prepare as for Creamed Lobster, with tlie addition of 
two teaspoons each of onion juice, Worcestershire Sauce, 
and mustard, a few grains cayenne, and a few drops 
Tabasco, for each quart of sauce. 

Shrimps and Crabs 

Shrimps and crabs maybe creamed, scalloped, or deviled, 
like lobster. 



80 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Scallops 

Q)ver six or eight quarts scallops with boiling water, 
let stand three minutes, drain, and dry with cheesecloth. 
Season with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, egg, and 
crumbs again. Fry in deep fat, or saute in butter in fry- 
ing pan. Serve with Sauce Tartare. 

Deviled Scallops 

8 quarts scallops 8 tablespoons tomato catsup 

I cup butter 8 teaspoons mustard 

8 tablespoons Worcester- Juice 4 lemons 
shire Sauce 4 teaspoons salt 

4 teaspoons paprika 

Parboil scallops two minutes, drain. Melt butter, add 
Worcestershire Sauce and other seasonings, bring to boil- 
ing point, serve. 

Scalloped Scallops 

6 quarts scallops 2 cups butter 

3 or more cups chopped i} cups flour 

mushrooms 2} quarts rich milk 

1} cups chopped onion i quart scallop liquor 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Parboil scallops two minutes. Drain and chop or cut 
in slices. Melt butter, add onion and mushrooms, cook 
slowly five minutes. Add flour, stir well, and add hot milk 
and liquor, stirring all the time. When smooth and thick- 
ened, add scallops, put in buttered baking dishes, and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



y 



MEATS 

Good beef is firm and fine-grained in texture, bright 
red in color, and well mottled with fat, which should be 
firm and yellowish white. 

Meat should be removed from wrapping paper as soon 
as it comes from the market, as the paper will absorb 
some of the juices. 

Keep meat in a cool place, but never put it in the ice 
compartment of a refrigerator, because the excessive 
moisture hastens decay. In case of insufficient refrigerator 
space, a large order may be given at one time, the butcher 
delivering it as required. 

Tender meats, such as the rump, the loin, or the ribs, 
should be broiled, pan-broiled, or roasted; but tough 
meats, like the flank, the round, or the brisket, should be 
cooked in water very slowly for several hours. But what- 
ever the method of cookery, the meat should first be sub- 
jected to a high temperature long enough to sear the 
outside, thus preventing the escape of the meat juices. 

As a rule, the palatability and digestibility of dark meats 
are greater when served rare, but of white meats when 
thoroughly cooked. 

Meats must be weighed, trimmed, and wiped with a 
cloth wrung out of cold water, but must never be put into 
water, as that draws out the meat juices. 



8i 



82 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Time-table for Cookery of Meats and Fish 

Boiling 

Beef Xan£g Aladdin Oven 

Braised or pot roast 4 to 5 hrs. 5 to 6 hrs. 

Stew 3 to 4 hrs. 4 to 5 hrs. 

Corned 4 to 5 hrs. 5 to 6 hrs. 
Cod (see Haddock) 

Fowl 2 to 3 hrs. 3 to 4 hrs. 

Haddock ( 3 to 5 lb. pieces ) 20 to 30 min. 

Halibut (3 lb. pieces) 30 min. 

Ham (15 lbs.) 4 to 5 hrs. 5 to 6 hrs. 

Mutton, leg or shoulder 2 to 3 hrs. 3 to 4 hrs. 

Stew 2 to 3 hrs. 2 to 3 hrs. 

Veal stew 3 to 4 hrs. 4 hrs. 

Baking 

Beef, rump or sirloin, rare 10 min. to lb. 15-20 min. to lb. 

Chicken 2 hrs. 3 hrs. 

Fish (3 to 4 lbs. each) i hr. 2 hrs. 

Lamb 2 hrs. 3 hrs. 

Yearling 2it0 3 hrs. 4 to 5 hrs. 

Chops \ hr. 

Turkey 3 hrs. 4 hrs. 

Veal, leg or shoulder 4 to 5 hrs. 6 to 7 hrs. 



MEATS 83 

r 

BEEP 

Broiled Steak 

Trim off superfluous or tainted fat from fifteen to twenty 
pounds sirloin or rump steak, and wipe with cloth wrung 
out of cold water. Grease wire broiler with some of the 
fat, put meat in broiler, and broil over clear fire, turning 
almost constantly until surface is well seared, then occa- 
sionally until done. Steak cut one inch thick will require 
five minutes if liked rare, six minutes if medium, and ten 
minutes or so if well done. Remove to hot platters, spread 
with butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

To Broil with Gas, Trim off fat and wipe steak. Light 
gas in broiling oven five to ten minutes before using. 
Grease rack in broiling pan with piece of fat. Lay steak 
' on rack, and when broiler is hot, place pan on highest 
notch, so as to be as near flame as possible. As soon as 
steak is seared on one side, turn and sear other side. Jn 
turning, put the fork into steak as near edge as possible, 
in order to prevent escape of juices. When well seared, 
lower pan about six inches and cook slowly three to five 
minutes, then turn steak and cook from three to five minutes 
on that side. The time depends upon thickness of steak. 
Remove to platters, season with salt, pepper, butter, and 
drippings from broiling pan. 

Broiled steak may be served with Maitre d'Hotel Butter 
or Mushroom Saqce. 

Steak with Onions 

Slice one peck onions, cover with boiling water, cook 
slowly twenty minutes, drain. When well drained, put 
in saucepan or aluminum kettle, and let simmer until a 



84 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

portion of the water has evaporated. Add one-half cup 
or more butter and salt to taste. Stir onions often until 
soft and slightly browned. When steak is broiled and 
seasoned, cover with onions and send at once to table. 

Hamburg Steak 

10 pounds finely-chopped i teaspoon pepper 
raw beef 3^ tablespoons or more 

} cup minced onion salt 

I cup minced green peppers 

Chop onion very fine. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 
Shape in form of steaks one inch in thickness, or in small, 
flat cakes. Broil or pan-broil, spread with butter or Maitre 
d'Hotel Butter, or serve with Brown, Mushroom, or 
Tomato Sauce. The peppers may be omitted. 

Beefsteak Roll 

Take large, thin slices of steak from the round : there 
should be about ten pounds. Wipe meat and lay out flat. 
Prepare stuffing as for roast chicken. Spread it evenly 
over slices of steak, roll up tightly, and tie with string, 
securing ends well. Saute rolls in iron frying pan in salt 
pork drippings, turning them so as to be well browned on 
all sides. Put rolls in covered roasting pans, pour over 
drippings and enough boiling water to cover bottom of 
pans. Cover and cook slowly two or three hours, turning 
meat once, and adding more water if needed. Take meat 
out on platters, remove strings, and keep hot while gravy 
is made. Make gravy from liquid in pans, allowing eight 
tablespoons flour to each quart of liquid. Mix flour with 
water to pour easily. Season with salt, pepper, and kitchen 
bouquet. Serve in gravy boats. Carve steak by cutting 
crosswise through beef and stuffing. 



MEATS 85 

Roast Beef 

There should be from fifteen to twenty pounds, and it 
may be left in one large piece or cut in two. Wipe, trim- 
ming off any fat or skin which may be discolored or 
tainted. Put on rack in dripping pans, skin side down, 
rub over with salt, dredge with flour. Place in hot oven, 
in order to sear surface quickly. As soon as flour in 
bottom of pan is browned, reduce heat and cook the re- 
quired time, basting often. See Time-Table for Cooking. 
If meat is quite lean, put two or three tablespoons drip- 
pings in pans. When meat is about half done, turn, dredge 
other side with flour, and finish roasting. 

To Roast in Aladdin Oven. Trim and wipe meat as 
above. Saute in hot greased frying pan, turning so as to 
brown all sides. Lay on rack in dripping pans. Unless 
there is plenty of fat on roasts, put two or three table- 
spoons drippings in pans. Light oven one hour before 
using. Put in meat, allowing fifteen to twenty minutes 
to the pound for roasting. Turn meat and change pans 
around when half done, in order that meat may be uni- 
formly cooked. Serve Brown Gravy or Mushroom Sauce 
with roast beef. 

Brown Gravy 

1} cups drippings 2^ quarts water 

i^ cups flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Pour off clear fat, reserving one and one-half cups of 
brown drippings in bottom of pans. Turn this into large 
saucepan, stir in browned flour. When smooth, add hot 
water, stirring constantly until smooth and thickened. 
Boil five minutes, season to taste. The gravy should be 
of a rich brown color, but if it is not, add kitchen bouquet 



86 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

as needed. Strain if lumpy. Brown the flour in frying 
pan, stirring constantly until a uniform yellowish brown 
color. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

i^ quarts milk i^ teaspoons salt 

i^ quarts flour 6 egg's 

Mix salt with flour, add milk gradually, that mixture 
may not become lumpy. Add beaten eggs, then beat mix- 
ture two minutes with Dover egg beater. Cover bottom 
of hot pans with hot beef drippings; pour in batter to 
depth of one-half inch. Bake thirty minutes, or until 
brown all over, basting, when well risen, with hot beef 
drippings. Cut in squares and serve aroimd roast. 

Braised Beef 

12 to IS pounds beef li quarts diced turnips 

from lower part of ij cups onion 

round 2 teaspoons peppercorns 

i^ quarts diced carrots ij cups celery 

2i quarts boiling water 2 cups diced salt pork 

Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and brown entire surface in beef or pork drippings 
in frying pan. Put beef into kettle with ctosely fitting 
cover, add vegetables, pork, seasonings, and boiling water. 
Bring to boil, put into oven, and cook slowly four or five 
hours. When meat is tender, strain off two and one-half 
quarts liquor, thicken with one cup flour mixed to a smooth 
paste with cold water, season to taste with salt, pepper, 
and kitchen bouquet, and serve in gravy boats. Serve 
vegetables as a garnish for the meat. 



MEATS 87 

Pressed Beef 

12 pounds beef from flank, 2 cups onion 

brisket, or round 2 cups carrot 

I tablespoon salt i teaspoon peppercorns 

Sweet herbs to taste J cup vinegar 

Wipe and trim meat, cover with boiling water, bring to 
boiling point, simmer until meat is in shreds. Add vege- 
tables and seasonings one hour before it is done. Remove 
meat and pack in long, narrow pans. Reduce liquor to 
three cups, strain and pour over meat. Cover and press 
with a heavy weight. Serve cold in thin slices. 

Corned Beef 

Wash corned beef, put in kettle, cover with cold water, 
bring slowly to boiling point. Boil five minutes, remove 
scum, and cook slowly until tender. If it is to be pressed, 
cook until it falls to pieces, and let it stand in water until 
partially cooled. Pack it in brick-shaped pans, laying the 
long fibers lengthwise, and mixing in the fat so that it will 
be well marbled. Press until cold. Fifteen pounds is 
sufficient for one meal, but from twenty to twenty-five 
pounds will be needed if it is desired to have enough left 
over for hash. 

Boiled Dinner 

Prepare and cook corned beef as above, being careful 
that it does not cook to pieces. Two hours before dinner 
remove meat and a part of the liquor to another kettle, 
and replace in Aladdin oven or on back of range to keep 
hot, or to cook more if necessary. Have small cabbages 
cut in eighths, carrots and turnips in any desired shape, 
small potatoes left whole. Skim off fat from corned beef 



88 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

liquor, put in carrots and cook thirty minutes, add cabbage 
and turnips and cook from thirty to forty-five minutes, 
then add potatoes and cook until all are done. If there is 
not sufficient liquor, add boiling water. Serve cabbage 
in separate dishes, the other vegetables on platters with 
beef. Serve mustard or mustard pickles with corned beef. 

Boiled Tbngue 

Wash twelve pounds corned tongues, cover with cold 
water, bring slowly to a boil, boil five minutes, removing 
the scum as it rises. Simmer three or four houris, or until 
tender. Remove skin and roots, and serve hot with 
Piquante or Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce. Or let cool 
in liquor in which they are cooked, and peel just before 
serving. Arrange slices overlapping each other around 
platters, with watercress piled in center. Serve with 
Tartare Sauce. 

Fresh tongues may be used instead of corned, but 
should be put directly into boiling water. 

Braised Tongue 

3 fresh beef tongues i cup diced carrot 

I cup onion i cup diced celery 

Wash tongues, put in kettle, cover with boiling water, 
and cook slowly two hours. Remove skin and roots, put 
tongues in deep pan, surround with vegetables, and pour 
over the sauce. Cover closely and cook two hours in slow 
oven, turning meat once. Slice, arrange on platters, pour 
the hot sauce over meat, and serve at once. 

Sauce. Melt one cup butter, add one cup flour, and stir 
until smooth and well browned. Add two quarts water 
in which tongue was cooked. Season with three teaspoons 
Worcestershire Sauce, salt, and pepper. 



MEATS 89 

Beef Stew 

I cup beef drippings 6 bay leaves 

12 pounds beef 6 sprigs parsley 

4 tablespoons salt 2 quarts diced turnip 

I teaspoon peppercorns 2 quarts diced carrot 

12 cloves 6 small sliced onions 

Pepper Coarse stalks celery 

Use any of the less expensive cuts of meat ; left-over 
roast or steak may be used, in which case it is not necessary 
to brown it again. 

Cut beef in one-inch cubes. Dredge two-thirds of the 
meat with flour and brown it in the drippings. Put in a 
large kettle with remaining meat, add three quarts boiling 
water, and cook slowly four or more hours. Add vege- 
tables and seasonings two hours before serving. If it is 
desired to have potatoes in stew, cut them in slices and 
add half an hour before taking from fire. Thicken with 
two cups flour mixed with enough water to pour easily. 
Watch carefully while thickening, lest it bum on the 
bottom. Gravy left from roast beef should be added to 
the stew. Serve very hot with dumplings or^baking powder 
biscuit. 

Dumplings 

2 quarts flour 5J tablespoons baking 
4 teaspoons salt powder 

3 tablespoons shortening 3 cups milk 

Sift dry ingredients together, rub in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add milk gradually, using a knife for 
mixing. Take on floured board, pat and roll out to one- 
half inch thickness. Shape with a small biscuit cutter. 



90 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Place close together in buttered steamer, cover closely, 
steam twelve minutes. Serve at once. 



Spanish Stew 

12 pounds beef i or 2 sweet green peppers 

2 quarts tomatoes 3 large onions 

1 quart water Salt to taste 

Cut beef in one-inch cubes. Dredge two-thirds of the 
meat with flour and brown in beef drippings. Seed and 
chop peppers, slice onions, strain tomatoes. Put all in- 
gredients into large kettle, bring to boiling point, and 
simmer four hours, or until meat is tender. Before serv- 
ing, thicken with two cups flour mixed with enough water 
to pour easily. Stir almost constantly until it thickens and 
boils, in order to prevent its sticking and burning on 
bottom. 

Beef Loaf 

10 pounds raw beef 8 eggs 

2 pounds fat salt pork 3 or more tablespoons salt 
6 cups dry bread crumbs 5 teaspoons mixed herbs 
4 cups water or stock — 5 tablespoons minced 

more or less as needed onion 

I teaspoon pepper 

Chop meat and onion very fine. If bread is hard and 
dry, dip for a moment in cold water, then wring dry in 
cloth before crumbling. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, 
pack in brick-shaped pans, bake two and one-half hours 
in Aladdin oven, or in range with slow heat. Baste occa- 
sionally. Serve hot or cold. 



MEATS 91 

Beef k la Paysanne 

10 pounds finely-chopped 3 tablespoons salt 
raw beef i teaspoon pepper 

4 pint cans tomato soup 3 cups buttered crumbs 

Mix beef thoroughly with salt and pepper. Rinse out 
cans with half as much water as there is soup. Put a layer 
of meat in bottom of casserole or baking dishes, then a 
layer of soup, another layer of meat, and so on until all 
the beef and soup are used. Cover with a thin layer of 
buttered crumbs. Bake two hours in Aladdin or other 
slow oven. Serve from the dishes in which it is cooked. 

Liver with Bacon 

Have six or more pounds beef liver cut in slices one- 
half inch in thickness. Pour boiling water over liver, let 
stand five minutes, drain. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour, and cook slowly in plenty of bacon fat 
until well cooked and browned slightly on both sides. 
Arrange on platters with crisp bacon. See directions for 
cooking bacon. 

Liver Loaf 

ID pounds sliced liver 3 teaspoons poultry season- 
2 tablespoons onion ing 

2 tablespoons salt 6 tablespoons vinegar or 

8 eggs well beaten juice of 2 lemons 

6 cups stale bread crumbs 

Cook liver in boiling salted water five minutes, drain, 
and chop fine. Mince onion very fine. Soak bread in cold 
water and wring dry in a cloth. Mix ingredients thor- 
oughly. Line brick-shaped pans with thin slices bacon, 



92 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

pack tightly with liver mixture, cover with bacon, and 
bake two hours or more in moderate oven. Turn from 
molds and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

Braised Liver 

12 pounds beef liver 2 cups diced turnip 

2 cups diced carrot i pound salt pork 

2 cups diced onion 2 teaspoons peppercorns 

2 cups diced celery 2 teaspoons whole cloves 

3 bay leaves 

Pour boiling water over liver, let stand five minutes, 
then saute on all sides in hot pork or bacon drippings. 
Put meat in kettle, add vegetables and seasonings, lay thin 
slices pork or bacon over meat, add two quarts water or 
stock, cover closely, and cook three or more hours in slow 
oven. Remove meat, strain liquor, and thicken, using 
eight tablespoons flour to one quart liquid. Season to 
taste with salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet ; serve in gravy 
boats. Arrange sliced liver on platters, garnish with the 
vegetables, and serve with it fresh or pickled cucumbers, 
or tomato catsup. 

Tripe in Batter 

Wash eight pounds pickled honeycomb tripe, cover with 
boiling water, and simmer gently thirty minutes, or till 
tender. Drain, wipe as dry as possible, and cut in pieces 
for serving. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in batter, 
cook in frying pans in a small quantity of hot fat until 
well browned on both sides. Drain on brown paper. 

Batter, Mix and sift five cups flour, one and one- fourth 
teaspoons salt, and seven teaspoons baking powder. Add 
one and two-thirds cups milk and five well-beaten eggs. 



MEATS 93 

Lyonnaise Tripe 

lo pounds honeycomb tripe 2j cups chopped onion 
2 cups butter 6 tablespoons minced 

Salt to taste parsley 

I teaspoon paprika 

Cook tripe in plenty of boiling water until very tender. 
Drain, cut in two-inch squares or strips. Cook onion 
slowly in butter until soft, turn in tripe, and toss about 
until butter is absorbed and tripe slightly browned. 
Sprinkle with salt, paprika, and parsley. If tripe is not 
pickled, add lemon juice or vinegar to taste. Serve very 
hot in covered dishes. 

Tripe k la Creole 

ID pounds tripe li cups chopped onion 

li cups flour f cup chopped green 

li cups butter pepper 

3 quarts strained tomato 

Melt butter, add pepper and onion, and cook until onion 
is soft and yellowish in color. Add flour, stir until smooth, 
then add tomato, stirring constantly until smooth and 
thickened. Season to taste with salt. Boil tripe until 
tender, cut in two-inch pieces, add to sauce, and simmer 
ten minutes. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

Broiled Chops 

Wipe fifteen pounds chops, trim off superfluous fat, and 
broil, following directions for Broiled Steak, and allow- 
ing from six to eight minutes if liked rare, and from eight 



94 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to ten if liked well done. Arrange chops in circle on hot 
platters, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and spread with 
butter if desired. 

Pan-Broiled Chops 

Prepare as for Broiled Chops. Put in hissing-hot fry- 
ing pans, sear, turn, and sear other side. Turn often, but 
do not pierce chops with fork, or juices will escape. Cook 
about six minutes if liked rare, eight to ten minutes if 
liked well done. If much fat collects in pan, pour it off. 
Turn chops on edge long enough to brown fat. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, spread with butter if desired, and 
serve very hot. 

Baked Chops 

Wipe and trim chops, arrange on rack in dripping pans, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook in hot oven thirty 
minutes, turning them when about half done. Remove to 
hot platters and serve at once. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Remove caul from two twelve-pound legs of mutton, 
wipe meat, put in kettle. Cover with boiling water, bring 
to boiling point, and boil five minutes, removing scum as 
it rises. Simmer until meat is tender, allowing fifteen 
minutes to the pound. When half done, add three table- 
spoons salt. Serve with Caper Sauce. 

Roast Lamb 

Three eight-pound legs of yearlings will be sufficient. 
Remove caul and outer skin, wipe, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour, place on rack in dripping pans. 
If cooked in range or gas oven, allow fifteen minutes to 
the pound, basting often. If cooked in Aladdin oven. 



MEATS 95 

allow twenty-five or thirty minutes to the pound, turning 
meat and changing pans around when half done. Serve 
with Brown Gravy made as for Beef Roast, or with Mint 
Sauce. 

Braised Leg of Mutton 

Have two twelve-pound legs of mutton boned. Wipe, 
roll, and tie securely in shape. Melt one-half cup pork fat, 
add one cup each diced onion, turnip, and carrot, two bay 
leaves, and two sprigs parsley. Cook five minutes, add 
two quarts boiling water, one tablespoon salt, and one- 
half teaspoon peppercorns ; pour over the mutton. Cover 
closely and cook slowly three hours. Remove from pan 
and keep hot while making sauce. Melt one and one- 
fourth cups butter or drippings, add one and one-fourth 
cups fiour, stir till well browned, then add strained liquor 
from pan. There should be two quarts. 

Roast Shoulder of Lamb 

Have three shoulders of yearlings boned at market. 
Wipe with damp cloth, sprinkle with salt, stnS, roll, and 
tie securely. The stuffing may be omitted if preferred. 
Put into boiling salted water to nearly cover, boil five 
minutes, removing scum as it rises. Cook gently in Aladdin 
oven or over simmerer two hours, or until tender. Then 
remove from water, drain, put in dripping pans, dredge 
with flour, salt, and pepper, and cook in hot oven forty- 
five minutes, or until brown and crisp on surface. Baste 
with some of ^he liquor in which meat was cooked. Make 
Brown Gravy with drippings and stock, following direc- 
tions given with Beef Roast. If gravy is colorless or 
insipid, add kitchen bouquet. Stuffing may be made as for 
Roast Shoulder of Veal, omitting lemon juice. 



96 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Irish Stew 

1 6 pounds mutton i quart diced carrot 

6 quarts potatoes i quart diced turnip 

6 large onions Salt and pepper to taste 

Wipe and cut in small pieces about sixteen pounds from 
forequarter of mutton. Saute half of it in beef or pork 
drippings until well browned. Put all the meat into kettle, 
add three quarts boiling water, bring to boiling point, and 
cook slowly in Aladdin oven or on back of range three 
hours. At end of first hour, add sliced onions, turnip, and 
carrot. An hour later add potatoes cut in one-third inch 
slices, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Before 
serving, thicken with two cups flour stirred to a smooth 
paste with cold water. Boil two minutes or more, stirring 
carefully to prevent burning. Serve with Dumplings or 
small Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Lamb Stew 

i6 pounds lamb from 4 small cans peas 

the forequarter 2 quarts stock or water 

4 onions sliced 2 quarts strained tomato 

I cup drippings Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut meat into one-inch cubes. Fry onions in dripping^ 
till slightly colored, then skim into kettle. Dredge meat 
with flour and brown in drippings. Put meat and stock 
in kettle with onion, cover, cook slowly in Aladdin oven, 
or on range two hours, or until lamb is tender. Soak 
pieces of toast in the hot seasoned tomato and arrange on 
platters. Skim out meat, put on toast, and keep hot. Add 
remainder of tomato to stock, and thicken with one and 
one-half cups flour mixed to a paste with cold water. Boil 



MEATS 97 

till thickened, add peas, season, heat thoroughly, and pour 
over meat and toast. Mutton may be used instead of lamb. 

Fricassee of Liamb 

12 to i6 pounds meat 3 quarts water 
from the forequarter i onion sliced 
Bacon fat Salt and pepper to taste 

Have lamb boned and cut in pieces for serving. Wipe, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and 
brown in bacon fat. Put in kettle, add boiling water, 
boil five minutes, removing scum as it rises. Simmer in 
Aladdin oven, or on range, two hours for lamb, three 
hours for mutton. Remove from kettle and keep hot while 
sauce is made. Melt one cup bacon fat, cook onion in it 
slowly five minutes. Remove onion, add one and one- 
fourth cups flour, stir till smooth, add three quarts of the 
stock in which meat has been cooked, and from which all 
fat has been skimmed. Cook until thickened, season with 
salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet. Arrange meat on 
platters and pour over it the sauce. 

VEAL 

Roast Shoulder of Veal 

Have two medium-sized f orequarters of veal boned at 
market. Trim off tainted or discolored skin or fat, and 
wipe with cloth wrung out of cold water. Sprinkle with 
salt, fill cavity with stufiing, make into rolls, and tie 
securely. Dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
lay on rack in dripping pans. Cover top with slices of fat 
salt pork and cook six hours in Aladdin oven, or four hours 
in range. Remove meat and keep hot while making gravy. 



98 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Pour off some of the clear fat, leaving one and one-half 
cups brown drippings, add one and one-half cups flour, 
stir until well browned, add two and one-half quarts water, 
stir until smooth and thickened. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper. The thick part of leg or loin may be boned 
and roasted in the same manner. 

Stuffing 

I quart dry bread crumbs 4 tablespoons chopped 
4 teaspoons salt onion 

3 tablespoons lemon juice i cup melted drippings 
I tablespoon mixed herbs i cup chopped salt pork 
Water to moisten if needed 

If bread is hard and dry, dip in cold water and wring dry 
in cloth before crumbling. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 

Braised Shoulder of Veal 

Bone, wipe, and tie securely ; then cook same as Braised 
Beef. 

Veal Fricassee 

Cut sixteen pounds veal from f orequarter in pieces for 
serving. Wipe, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in salt pork fat. Put in kettle with 
three quarts boiling water and cook slowly three hours, 
or until meat is tender. Melt two cups pork fat, add two 
cups flour, and stir until well browned, then add three 
quarts of water in which veal was cooked, stirring con- 
stantly until smooth and thickened. Season with salt, 
pepper, onion juice, and lemon juice. Serve veal in center 
of platter, garnish with parsley, and surround with hot 
sauce. 



MEATS 99 

Veal Fricassee with Tomato 

Have sixteen pounds veal from the forequarter boned 
and cut in pieces for serving. Wipe, roll in egg and 
crumbs, and saute in pork or beef drippings. Put into 
kettle, add three quarts Tomato Sauce, cover closely, and 
cook slowly three or four hours. 

Veal Stew 

Have two shoulders of veal boned and cut in pieces for 
serving. Put in kettle, add two quarts boiling water, boil 
five minutes, then cook slowly in Aladdin oven or on range 
four hours, or until tender, adding salt when half done. 
Add milk to make three quarts liquid, thicken with one and 
one-fourth cups each flour and butter creamed together. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Arrange meat on 
pieces of toast and pour over them the hot sauce. 

Mock Birds 

Have from eight to ten pounds veal cut from leg or 
loin, in slices half an inch thick. Remove bone, fat, and 
skin, and pound until fiber is broken. Cut in pieces five 
inches long and three wide. Make a forcemeat as follows : 
Put veal trimmings and six slices fat salt pork through 
meat grinder ; add one-half their measure of fine cracker 
crumbs. Season highly with salt, pepper, lemon juice, 
paprika, onion juice, and poultry seasoning. Moisten with 
beaten egg and hot water. Cover each piece of veal nearly 
to the edge with this forcemeat, roll, and fasten with 
wooden toothpicks. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, 
and brown in pork drippings. Put in stew pan, add three 
quarts rich milk, and simmer twenty minutes, or until 
meat is tender, watching carefully that it does not bum. 



lOO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Remove birds to pieces of toast ; thicken milk with one cup 
flour creamed with one cup butter, season to taste, and 
pour it over birds and toast. 

Veal Loaf I 

lo pounds veal from 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

the f orequarter 3 tablespoons salt 

li pounds fat salt pork i teaspoon pepper 

18 common crackers 2 tablespoons minced onion 

f cup thin cream 2 tablespoons sage 

Put veal and pork through meat grinder, roll crackers, 
and mix all ingredients thoroughly. Pack in brick-shaped 
pans, bake slowly three hours, basting with pork fat. 
Serve cold, cut in thin slices. 

Veal Loaf II 

10 pounds veal from i teaspoon pepper 

f orequarter Salt to taste 

I potmd bacon 3 or 4 onions 

Cook veal and onions in boiling water to barely cover, 
until tender; remove meat and let get cold. Left-over 
roast veal may be substituted for a part of the meat, in 
which case it would be ready for use without boiling. Put 
veal and bacon through meat grinder, season well, and 
moisten with enough stock to pack. Put in brick-shaped 
pans, set pans in larger ones containing water, and cook 
one hour or longer in a moderate oven. Let loaves get 
perfectly cold before removing from pans. 

Veal Hearts 

Wash twelve veal hearts, but do not let them soak. 
With a pair of scissors cut out veins and arteries. Fill 



• ••*•••• • • •• 

• •••«•••• . . • 

• •• - 



cavities with stuffing and sew edges of opening together. 
Saute the hearts in salt pork fat ; then put in kettle with 
two quarts boiling water. Cover closely and cook three 
hours in Aladdin oven, or in range with slow heat. Re- 
move hearts to platters. Thicken liquid in pan with one 
cup flour mixed till smooth with cold water ; season to taste 
with salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet. If sauce is too 
thick, add a little hot water. Serve in gravy boats. Serve 
with the hearts onions which have been boiled until very 
soft, then browned slightly in butter. 

Stuffing 

I quart small, dry pieces 4 tablespoons finely- 

of bread chopped onion 

4 teaspoons thyme 3 eggs well beaten 

I tablespoon salt i cup melted drippings 

I teaspoon marjoram i teaspoon sage 

i teaspoon pepper Water if needed 

Put dry bread into cold water, then wring dry in a cloth 
before crumbling. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 

PORK 
Pork Chops 

Wipe fifteen to twenty pounds chops, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, put in hot frying pans, and cook slowly until 
well browned on each side. 

Baked Pork Chops 

Wipe chops, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put on racks 
in dripping pans, and cook forty-five minutes, or until 
done, in a hot oven, turning when half cooked. 



• ••• •••••». • 

• . • ••••/••• 

M^A* M m AAA AA 






*0J ••'.' .•':•. ^EtlBEfe.'AVn>'MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Roast Pork 

Wipe fifteen to twenty pounds pork, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, put on rack in dripping pans, cook from three 
to four hours in range, or from five to six hours in Aladdin 
oven. If desired, gravy may be made as for other roasts. 

Barbecued Fresh Ham 

Wipe a large, fresh ham and score rind with sharp 
knife. Mix one tablespoon of mustard seed, half a tea- 
spoon each of celery seed and peppercorns with one cup 
sugar, one cup of vinegar, and two cups water ; let stand 
ten or fifteen minutes. Pour this pickle over ham, letting 
it stand several hours, or over night, and turning it several 
times. Put into dripping pan, fat side down, and cook in 
Aladdin oven six hours; or put in covered roaster and 
cook in range four hours. Strain the pickle and keep it 
hot, basting occasionally with it until all is used. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Boiled or Baked Ham 

Soak over night two well-scrubbed nine-pound hams. 
Put into cold water with one tablespoon pickling spice, 
six slices carrot, six slices onion, two stalks cdery, one 
teaspoon celery salt, three sprigs parsley, and one-half cup 
strong vinegar. Bring to boil and cook slowly five or 
more hours, or until tender. Do not overcook, or it will 
be difficult to carve nicely. If it is to be served cold, let it 
cool in the water in which it was cooked. 

For baked ham, remove skin and cover with following 
paste: one cup brown sugar, one cup soft, fine bread 
crumbs, one teaspoon mustard, and enough vinegar to hold 
the paste together. Stick ham with cloves and make in- 



MEATS 103 

cisions over entire surface. Bake one hour, basting with 
one cup water mixed with one-fourth cup vinegar and 
two tablespoons brown sugar. Serve hot or cold. 

Broiled Ham 

Have eight pounds or more ham cut in thin slices. 
Soak one hour in lukewarm water, drain, wipe, and broil 
three minutes. 

Fried Ham 

Have ham cut in thicker slices than for broiling. Wipe, 
remove rind, and soak in lukewarm water for an hour. 
Drain, dry on cheesecloth. Put into hissing-hot frying 
pans and brown quickly, first on one side, then on the 
other. Do not cook too long, or the ham will be hard and 
dry. Serve with eggs fried in the ham fat, or with the 
following sauce poured over ham just before serving: 
Pour off any clear fat in frying pan, then add one and 
one-half cups vinegar, four tablespoons prepared mustard, 
four tablespoons sugar, and one teaspoon paprika, and 
bring to boiling point. 

Bacon 

Have bacon cut in very thin slices. Put in dripping 
pans, crowding slices closely together. Cook in hot oven 
until a golden brown, removing the pieces with skimmer 
or fork as soon as done. They will not be crisp until lifted 
out of the fat. Keep in warm place until ready to serve. 

Sausages 

Cut apart ten pounds link sausages and wipe with a wet 
cloth. Pierce each one in several places with a fork. Lay 
sausages close together on rack in dripping pans, and cook 



I04 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

in hot oven until brown and crisp. If overcooked they will 
be dry and tasteless. Serve with Fried or Glazed Apples, 
or mashed potato. 

Frankfurters 

Wipe, cover with boiling water, and cook slowly until 
they rise to the surface of water. Drain, garnish with 
parsley, and serve with mustard pickles and rye bread. 

Frankfurters may also be sauted in salt pork drippings 
or butter, in frying pans. They should be thoroughly 
cooked, and brown and crisp on the surface. 

Scrapple 

Boil six or eight pounds fresh pork in four quarts water 
until so tender that it falls to pieces. Any of the cheaper 
cuts of meat or left-over roast may be used. Strain tlie 
liquor into fireless cooker kettle. Chop meat finely, remov- 
ing any bones or gristle, and return to liquor. Bring to 
boiling point and thicken with one quart corn meal. Boil 
five minutes, put in cooker, and cook several hours. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Turn into shallow oblong 
pans to mold. Cut in half-inch slices and cook on griddle 
until brown and crisp on both sides. 

Creamed Salt Pork 

I pound fat salt pork i J cups flour 

3 quarts milk Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut pork in half-inch dice, fry until golden brown, 
then add flour, stir until smooth, and remove from fire. 
Heat milk in double boiler, add to above mixture, stirring 
constantly until smooth, and return to double boiler. Cook 
thirty minutes, stirring once or twice. Serve with baked 
potatoes. 



N 



MEATS 105 

Crisp Salt Pork 

Cut fat salt pork In very thin slices, soak thirty minutes 
in lukewarm water, drain. Dip each piece in flour so that 
each side is well coated, but shaking off any loose flour. 
Put m tiot frying pans, and cook until crisp and golden 
brown on each side. Drain, put on hot platters, and serve 
with baked potatoes and cream sauce made as follows: 
Pour oS clear fat, reserving one and one-fourth cups of 
the brown drippings in bottom of pans, to use in place 
of pork, and proceed as in Creamed Salt Pork. 



POULTRY AND GAME 

To Select Poultry and Game 

A chicken has soft feet, smooth skin, many pinfeathers, 
and soft cartilage at end of breastbone. A fowl has long 
hairs, thick yellow skin, hard scaly feet, and a breast- 
bone which is hard and bony to the very tip. Fowl are 
preferable for stewing, because of the larger amount of 
meat in proportion to bone. A good turkey also will 
have soft, pliable breastbone. Good geese have many pin- 
feathers. Small birds should be plump, with soft feet 
and pliable bills. 

To Dress and Clean Poultry 

Singe, to remove hairs, by holding bird over a flame 
from gas or burning paper, turning so as to expose all 
parts of surface to blaze. Take out pinfeathers, using a 
small, sharp-pointed knife. Cut oif head, turn back skin, 
and cut off neck close to body. Cut through skin around 
leg one inch below leg joint, being careful not to cut 



I06 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

tendons. Place leg at this cut over edge of table, and 
press downward to break bone, then take foot in right 
hand, holding bird in left, and pull off foot, drawing out 
with it the tendons. In old birds tendons must be drawn 
separately, using a skewer. 

Make incision in skin below breastbone large enough 
to admit hand. Remove entrails, gizzard, heart, and liver. 
Care must be taken not to break gall bladder, which lies 
under liver. Remove lungs and kidneys from hollows each 
side of backbone. Insert two fingers under skin close to 
neck, and draw out windpipe and crop. Remove oil bag. 
Wash bird by letting cold water run through it. Be sure 
that everything has been removed, and that bird is clean, 
then wipe dry inside and out. A disagreeable odor may 
sometimes be removed by washing thoroughly in soda 
water. 

To Stuff and Truss Poultry 

Put enough stuffing in neck end to fill skin moderately 
full ; put remainder in body. Take a few stitches wherever 
necessary to hold cut edges together. Fasten neck skin 
to back with small skewer or stitches. Cross drumsticks, 
tie securely with string, and fasten to tail. Place wings 
close to body, keeping them in place by inserting skewer 
through both wings and body. 

Roast Chicken or Turkey 

Allow twenty-five pounds dressed, whether chicken, 
fowl, or turkey. 

Dress, clean, stuff, and truss as directed. Rub entire 
surface with salt, and spread breast and legs with butter, 
using one and one-fourth cups. If crusted surface is 



POULTRY AND GAME IO7 

desired, dredge with flour, or cream butter with one cup 
flour before spreading. Place birds on rack in dripping 
pans and cook required time, turning occasionally so as 
to brown all parts uniformly. Roast turkeys three hours 
or more, chickens from one and one-half to two hours. 
Old birds may be steamed until tender, then roasted. 
Baste often, using one and one-half cups butter melted 
in one quart water. Remove string and skewers before 
serving. 

Plain Stuffing 

4 quarts crumbs i teaspoon pepper 

I tablespoon salt i tablespoon poultry 

I cup melted butter seasoning 

Water to moisten 

Crumble stale bread after cutting off any dark crusts. 
If dried bread is used, it should be in small pieces instead 
of crumbs. Put into cold water long enough to soften, 
wring dry in cloth, then crumble. Mix all ingredients 
thoroughly. If crumbly stuffing is wanted, use more 
butter and no water. 

Oyster Stuffing 

4 quarts crumbs i teaspoon pepper 

I tablespoon salt 6 tablespoons finely- 
I cup melted butter chopped celery 

4 tablespoons minced i or more quarts 
onion oysters 

Prepare crumbs as for Plain Stuffing; add butter, 
seasonings, and oysters which have been cleaned and 
drained. 



I08 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Gravy 

li cups drippings 3 quarts water or stock 

ij cups flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Pour off some of the clear fat, reserving enough of the 
rich brown drippings in bottom of pans for the gravy. 
Turn drippings into large saucepan, add flour, stir until 
smooth, add stock in which giblets, necks, and tips of 
wings have been cooked. Boil five minutes, season, and 
strain. For giblet gravy add to above the finely-chopped 
giblets. 

Broiled Chicken 

Wash chickens which have been dressed and split down 
back for broiling, and wipe dry. Place in dripping pans, 
skin side down, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot over 
with butter, and bake twenty minutes or longer in hot 
oven. Remove to broiler and finish cooking over coals 
or in gas broiler. 

Fried Chicken 

Clean young chickens, singe, and cut in pieces for serv- 
ing. Plunge in cold water, drain, but do not wipe. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Put 
salt pork or other drippings into frying pans to depth of 
one inch ; cook chicken in fat until tender and well browned. 
Remove to platters. Pour off drippings, reserving one 
cup; add one cup flour, stir well, add two and one-half 
quarts rich milk. Stir until smooth and well cooked, strain, 
add two tablespoons finely-chopped parsley, and serve in 
gravy boats. 

Smothered Chicken 

Clean and split young chickens suitable for frying. 
Place in dripping pans, skin side down, sprinkle with salt 



POULTRY AND GAME IO9 

and pepper, cover with slices of bacon, dredge with flour. 
Bake in a hot oven forty-five minutes, or until tender, 
basting often. Serve with the following sauce : Pour off 
all but one cup of the drippings in pans, add one cup flour 
and two and one-half quarts thin cream, or half cream 
and half chicken stock. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and cook until thickened. 

Chicken Stew 

Cut up and wash twenty-five pounds dressed fowl. 
Put into kettle, cover with boiling water, and cook slowly 
until tender, adding salt when half cooked. Remove meat 
and thicken stock with flour mixed to smooth, thin paste 
with cold water, allowing one-half cup of flour to one 
quart of liquid. Season to taste with salt and pepper, pour 
over the meat, and serve with Dumplings or small Baking 
Powder Biscuit. 

Chicken k la Jardiniere 

20 pounds dressed fowl 2 quarts canned peas 

4 quarts boiling water 2 cups flour 

2 quarts small onions 2 cups butter or chicken fat 

2 quarts diced carrot Salt and pepper to taste 

Stew fowls in four quarts water until tender, adding salt 
and onions the last hour. Remove fowls from water and 
skim out the onions. When cold, skim fat from liquid 
and remove meat carefully from bones, keeping it as much 
as possible in large pieces. 

Melt two cups butter or chicken fat, stir in flour and 
four quarts of liquor in which fowls were cooked. It 
saves time to have this reheated before adding to sauce. 
Boil five minutes, stirring constantly ; season to taste and 
add meat. 



no RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Boil carrots in salted water until tender. Heat in double 
boiler canned peas which have been well drained, adding 
salt to taste. Saute the onions slightly in butter. 

Pile meat in center of platters, surrounding with 
vegetables arranged in mounds ; pour sauce over the whole 
and serve with Boiled Rice. 

Chicken Fricassee 

Wash and cut up twenty-five pounds dressed fowl. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and 
brown in pork drippings. Put into kettle, add boiling 
water to nearly cover, and cook slowly three hours or until 
tender. Add enough butter to frying pan in which meat 
was browned to make one and one- fourth cups in. all, 
add one and one- fourth cups flour, and three quarts water 
in which fowl was cooked. Boil five minutes, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, strain, and pour it over the 
meat. 

Creole Chicken 

Cut twenty-five pounds dressed fowl in pieces for serv- 
ing, wash, and dry. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in salt pork or bacon drippings. 
Put into kettle with two quarts water and two quarts 
strained tomato ; add two cups sliced onion, three mild red 
or green peppers, finely chopped, three cups diced celery, 
salt and pepper to taste. Simmer three hours, or until 
fowl is tender. Remove to platters and keep hot while 
making sauce. Add butter to frying pan in which fowl 
was browned to make one cup, add one and one-fourth 
cups flour and three quarts of liquor in which fowl was 
cooked. Boil five minutes, season, pour around meat, and 
serve with Boiled Macaroni. 



POULTRY AND GAME III 

Chicken Pie 

Prepare and cook twenty pounds dressed fowl or chicken 
as for Chicken Stew. Remove chicken, skim off fat, and 
thicken four quarts liquor with one and one-half cups flour 
mixed with cold water to pour easily. Place a small cup 
in center of each baking dish, remove some of the large 
bones from chicken, then arrange it in baking dishes, add 
gravy to come almost to top, cool. Make baking powder 
crust as for Meat Pie, cut in small rounds with biscuit 
cutter, place close together on top of chicken, bake thirty 
minutes, or until done, in hot oven. Serve extra gravy in 
boats. 

Roast Goose 

Singe, remove pinfeathers, wash and scrub geese in hot 
soapsuds or soda water. Remove internal organs as from 
fowl, wash in clear water, and wipe dry. Stuff, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, lay thin slices fat salt pork over 
breast. Place on rack in dripping pans, bake two or more 
hours, removing pork the last half hour. Garnish with 
watercress, serve with Giblet Sauce made as for Roast 
Chicken. 

Stuffing 

2 cups hot mashed potato J cup butter 

li cups soft, stale crumbs i egg 

I cup chopped salt pork li teaspoons salt 

J cup chopped onion i teaspoon sage 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. This quantity is sufficient 
for one goose. 

Roast Wild Duck 

Singe, draw, and remove pinfeathers. Wash inside and 
out and wipe dry. Stuff, place on rack in dripping pans. 



112 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover breast with thin 
slices salt pork. Bake from thirty to forty-five minutes 
in hot oven. Domestic ducks should be cooked about twice 
the time allowed for wild ones. Serve with Olive Sauce 
and currant jelly. 

Stuffing 

I cup boiled chopped i tablespoon melted butter 

onions f cup bread crumbs 

f cup chopped sour f teaspoon sage 

apples Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. This amount is enough 
for one duck. Instead of stuffing to be eaten, ducks may 
be stuffed with sour apples, pared, cored, and quartered; 
or two or three onions may be substituted for the apples. 

Stewed Rabbits 

Skin, clean, and cut up rabbits, cutting each joint and 
halving the backs. Saute sliced onions in salt pork drip- 
pings, allowing two onions to each rabbit. Skim out the 
onions and saute rabbit, which has been sprinkled with 
salt and pepper and dredged with flour. Pack meat in 
kettle, add onion, salt, and pepper, sweet herbs, and water 
to nearly cover. Cover closely and simmer two hours; or 
until tender. Drain liquor into another saucepan, keeping 
the meat hot over hot water or in Aladdin oven ; thicken 
with six tablespoons flour creamed with six tablespoons 
butter to each quart liquid. Season with salt, pepper, 
tomato catsup, and Worcestershire Sauce; add meat, 
simmer five minutes, and serve. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II3 



General Directions for Using Left-over Meats 

AND Fish 

Remove all gristle, bones, and skin from both meat and 
fish before using in warmed over dishes. Roast beef or 
steak should be stewed until tender in a small amount 
of water before using for meat pies, ragoiits, hash, cro- 
quettes, or other made dishes. Roast beef gravy may be 
poured boiling hot over cold sliced roast beef and served 
at once, but it should not cook in it, or meat will be tough- 
ened, unless it has first been cooked in water several hours. 

Water may be used in place of stock by adding beef 
extract or bouillon cubes to flavor. Kitchen bouquet may 
also be used. Colorless or tasteless sauces may be improved 
by adding kitchen bouquet. 

Salt codfish should soak over night, or for several hours, 
before using. 



Creamed Corned Beef 

8 or more quarts cold 2 small sliced onions 

corned beef cut in i teaspoon celery salt 

dice I teaspoon paprika 

4 quarts milk J cup lemon juice 

2 cups butter 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 cups flour parsley 

Scald onion in milk, then skim out. Cook flour in butter, 
remove from fire, add hot milk, stirring constantly until 
smooth, then cook in double boiler thirty minutes. Add 
seasonings and meat, salt to taste, heat thoroughly, and 
sprinkle with parsley before sending to table. 



114 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Creamed Chicken 

8 or more quarts cold 4 quarts White Sauce II 
chicken or veal cut 2 teaspoons celery salt 
in dice ^ teaspoon pepper 

Reheat chicken in sauce, adding celery salt and more 
salt and pepper if needed. Creamed Chicken maybe served 
on toast ; or in border of boiled rice or mashed potato ; or 
with crisp bacon ; or there may be added to sauce sliced 
mushrooms, or cleaned and drained oysters. 

Creamed Dried Beef 

2 or more pounds smoked 4 quarts White Sauce II 
dried beef Salt and pepper to taste 

Shred beef, cover with hot water, let stand ten minutes, 
drain. Add to sauce, heat thoroughly, and season to taste. 

Frizzled Dried Beef 

2 or more pounds smoked 2 cups butter 

dried beef 2 cups flour 

4 quarts hot milk or water Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt butter in large saucepan, add shredded dried beef 
which has been soaked ten. minutes in hot water and 
drained. Cook slowly until butter is golden brown, then 
add flour and stir until well mixed with beef. Add hot 
water, stirring until smooth and thoroughly cooked. 
Season to taste. If milk is used, heat it in double boiler, 
and cook the mixture in boiler thirty minutes, as in making 
white sauce. 



LfiFT-OVER MEATS II5. 

R6chaufr6 of Meat 

i cup drippings 4 quarts brown stock 

1 cup butter 8 quarts diced meat 
6 tablespoons minced i teaspoon pepper 

onion Salt to taste 

2 cupsjflour I tablespoon mixed herbs 

I quart dried mushrooms 

Cook onion in butter until slightly browned ; add flour 
and stir until browned. Add stock and stir until smooth 
and well cooked. Stir into this sauce the meat and the 
mushrooms, which have been soaked and chopped ; season 
and serve. 

Mutton k la Creole 

} cup chopped green 2i quarts brown stock 

pepper i^ quarts strained tomato 

i cup minced onion 6 quarts diced mutton 

li cups butter 2 quarts cooked macaroni 

2 cups flour 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Salt to taste 

Cook pepper. and onion in butter three minutes; add 
flour, stir until smooth, then add stock and tomato. Simmer 
a few minutes, stirring constantly; add seasonings and 
meat. Heat well and pour it over the cooked macaroni. 

Curry of Mutton 

8 quarts cold mutton or 2 cups butter 

veal 2 cups flour 

4 large chopped onions 3 tablespoons salt 
. 2 tablespoons curry i teaspoon pepper 

4 quarts stock or water 

Cut meat in one-inch squares. Fry onion in butter until 
soft, add flour mixed with seasonings, and stock. Boil 



Il6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

three minutes, put in meat, simmer fifteen minutes. Serve 
on platter with border of Boiled Rice or Turkish Pilaf . 

Mexican Ragotit 

8 or more quarts cold 2 teaspoons celery salt 

beef, lamb, or veal | cup chopped onion 

diced I cup chopped green pepper 

3 quarts strained tomato 4 teaspoons Worcestershire 

1 quart stock Sauce 

2 cups butter i teaspoon paprika 
2 cups flour Salt to taste 

Cook onion and pepper slowly in butter until soft, stir- 
ring often ; add flour, stir until smooth ; add stock and 
tomato, cook until smooth and thickened. Put in meat, 
heat thoroughly, season to taste, and serve. 

RagoClt of Chicken 

25 pounds chicken or fowl 4 bay leaves 
roasted or boiled 6 peppercorns 

J pound diced bacon 4 sprigs parsley 

i cup bacon drippings 3 quarts Consomme or 

2 sliced carrots stock 

i^ cups flour 

Remove skin and bone from cold cooked chicken. The 
meat need not be in pieces of the same size, but should 
not be broken or crumbled. Cook together bacon and 
seasonings for fifteen minutes, being careful not to let 
them get very brown. Add flour, cook until light brown, 
then stir in the stock. Put in all the trimmings from 
chicken, and cook in Aladdin oven or on back of range 
one hour ; strain. Put in carefully the pieces of chicken ; 
simmer forty-five minutes. Garnish with triangles of 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II7 

toast. Cooked veal may be substituted for part of the 
chicken. 

Casserole of Rice and Meat 
2 quarts uncooked rice 3 tablespoons chopped 



4^ quarts cold meat 


parsley 


chopped finely 


3 tablespoons chopped 


4 or 5 teaspoons salt 


onion 


4 eggs 


. 2 teaspoons thyme 


I teaspoon celery salt 


I cup cracker or bread 


I teaspoon pepper 


crumbs 



1 teaspoon marjoram 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Cook rice as for Boiled Rice. Add seasonings, egg, and 
crumbs to meat. Mix well and moisten with stock o;* 
water enough to pack easily. 

Butter molds, line bottom and sides with rice, pack in 
the meat, cover closely with rice, steam forty minutes. 
Turn out on hot platters. Serve with Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce poured around casseroles, or put in sauce 
boats. 

Chicken or Veal Sou£96 

3 quarts scalded milk 3 cups soft, stale bread 

f cup butter crumbs 

} cup flour 3 quarts cold, cooked, finely- 

2 tablespoons salt chopped chicken or veal 
I teaspoon pepper 18 eggs 

6 tablespoons chopped parsley 

Make sauce of the first five ingredients, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Add bread crumbs five minutes 
before removing from double boiler. Add chicken, yolks 
of eggs, and parsley. Fold in stiflBy-beaten whites, put in 



/ 



Il8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

buttered baking dishes, bake thirty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Serve with Mushroom Sauce. 

Beef Sou£a6 

Make same as Chicken Souffle, using beef stock instead 
of milk, and beef instead of chicken. Serve with Mush- 
room or Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce. 



Cottage 

Cut remnants of beef roast or steak in small pieces, add 
boiling water and two or three sliced onions, and simmer 
until tender. Season highly with salt and pepper, and 
thicken liquid with flour mixed to a smooth, thin paste 
with cold water. . Add gravy left from roasts. Put a layer 
of hot mashed potato in bottom of greased baking dishes, 
then a thick layer of prepared meat, and cover with a 
layer of potato. Bake in hot oven until potato is slightly 
browned. 

Meat Pie 

Cut cold beef roast or steak in one-inch cubes; there 
should be nine quarts or more. Put in kettle, add three 
sliced onions and four quarts boiling water. Simmer 
slowly two hours or until tender. Skim out meat and put 
into baking dishes. Mix one and one-half cups flour with 
cold water to pour, stir into hot liquid, bring to boiling 
point, and season to taste. Cover meat with a layer of cold 
sliced potatoes, or those which have been peeled, sliced, 
and parboiled until nearly done. Pour in gravy to moisten 
well, but not to come quite to top. Cover with the follow- 
ing crust, bake thirty minutes, or until done, in hot oven. 
Serve remainder of gravy in boats. Potatoes may be 
omitted and more meat used. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II9 

Baking Powder Crust 

2i quarts flour 5 teaspoons salt 

3f cups milk or milk 6} tablespoons baking 

and water powder 

I J cups shortening 

Sift dry ingredients together, and cut or rub in shorten- 
ing. Add liquid gradually, mixing with knife to as soft 
a dough as can be handled. Roll and cut as for Baking 
Powder Biscuit. Cut in small rounds, place close together 
on top of meat mixture, bake about twenty minutes in hot 
oven. Or roll out in a sheet that will just fit baking dish, 
cut a hole an inch in diameter in center, place on meat, 
and bake thirty minutes, or till done, in hot oven. Still 
another method is to mix dough to a stiff drop batter, and 
drop by spoonfuls on top of meat 

Corned Beef Hash 

Mix thoroughly finely-chopped corned beef and chopped 
or mashed potato. Do not cut off all the fat, as it improves 
the flavor of hash. Moisten with stock in which meat was 
cooked, and season to taste with salt and pepper. The 
proportions of meat and potato may vary from equal parts 
of each to two-thirds potato, according to taste or materials 
at hand, but there should be from ten to twelve quarts of 
the mixture. 

Melt beef drippings to barely cover bottom of frying 
pans, put in hash, packing it in well, cook in oven until 
bottom and sides are brown and crisp. About an hour will 
be required with an oven full of pans, which require more 
or less changing around, in order that hash be uniformly 
browned. Fold like an omelet, or turn out on round 



120 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

platters with brown crust uppermost. Garnish with pars- 
ley. Serve with it Chili sauce, tomato catsup, or cucumber 
pickles. 

Vegetable Hash 

Prepare, cook, and serve as Corned Beef Hash, substi- 
tuting vegetables for all or a portion of the potato. 
Chopped beets, turnips, carrots, onion, and cabbage may 
be used, in any convenient proportion and combination, 
allowing one-third meat to two-thirds vegetables, if 
possible. 

Beef Hash 

Prepare, cook, and serve as Corned Beef Hash. Use 
any remnants of cooked lamb, veal, pork, or beef, first 
stewing roast or steak in a small amount of water until 
tender. Cook one cup each minced onion and mild green 
pepper in two cups pork, bacon, or beef drippings until 
soft, then add to hash. Season with salt, pepper, celery 
salt, or finely-minced celery, and half a cup minced parsley. 

Baked Mince with Eggs 

4 quarts cooked veal, lamb, i teaspoon pepper 

or chicken i cup chopped onion 

2 quarts cooked ham 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 quarts soft bread crumbs parsley 

Salt to taste 

Remove skin, gristle, and bones from meat, and chop 
fine before measuring. Mix ingredients thoroughly, and 
moisten well with stock or water. Put in greased baking 
dishes, cover and cook thirty minutes in moderately hot 
oven. Break required number of eggs on top of mince. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS 121 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover again, and cook until 
whites are set. Send to table in baking dishes. 

Meat Cakes 

7 quarts finely-chopped i teaspoon paprika 

cooked meat 3 tablespoons mixed herbs 

3 quarts soft crumbs I cup drippings 

f cup minced onion Stock or water to moisten 

Chop meat fine. Crumble soft, stale crumbs; or soak 
pieces of dried bread in cold water, then wring dry in 
cloth before crumbling. Cook onion in drippings until 
soft, and add to mince. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, 
moistening enough to shape easily. Ten or twelve beaten 
eggs may be added, in which case less stock will be needed. 
Season to taste with' salt. Shape in cakes, and brown in 
pork or bacon fat to barely cover bottom of frying pans. 

The above mixture may be packed in well-greased bread 
pans and baked one hour in moderate oven. Turn out on 
platters, garnish with parsley, or parsley and sliced toma- 
toes, and serve with Mushroom or Tomato Sauce. 

Minced Meat on Toast 

6 or more quarts minced Salt and pepper to taste 

meat i^ tablespoons Worcester- 

3 or more quarts brown shire Sauce or 

gravy i cup tomato catsup 

Gravy left from beef, lamb, veal, or chicken roast may 
be used. Bring gravy to boiling point, add minced meat 
and seasonings. Toast half slices of bread until nicely 
browned and dried, dip in salted water, arrange on platters, 
pour meat over toast, and serve. 



122 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Ham Hash 

7 quarts chopped potato Salt to taste 

3i quarts chopped ham | cup flour 

J teaspoon pepper 6 cups milk 

Chop ham and potato rather coarsely, mix well, and 
season. Put into baking dishes or frying pans, sprinkle 
with the flour, and add the milk. Cook in oven or on 
back of range until it is thoroughly heated and the milk 
is absorbed. 

Croquettes 

Croquettes may be made from meat, fish, vegetables, 
and cereals, alone or in any desired combination. Meat 
and fish are usually mixed with a thick sauce, but cold 
cooked cereal may be substituted for the sauce. 

With a sauce the croquette mixture must be spread in 
shallow pans and allowed to stand several hours or over 
night to stiffen. 

Croquettes made with cold cereal instead of sauce, or of 
vegetables mixed with egg, may be shaped at once. 

Croquettes should be soft and creamy inside, and 
shapely, crisp, and brown outside. If the mixture proves 
to be too soft to handle, a little fine cracker dust may be 
added. It is better to roll croquettes in bread rather than 
cracker crumbs. The bread should be dried without brown- 
ing, rolled and sifted. 

Croquettes are cooked in deep fat, and should brown 
in one minute. To test the fat, put in some white bread 
crumbs ; they should brown in one-half minute. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS ^ I23 

Meat Croquettes with Sauce 

2i cups butter i teaspoon pepper 

3 cups flour 2 teaspoons celery salt 

2^ quarts stock Onion juice to taste 

3 teaspoons salt 5 quarts cooked meat 

Use any remnants of cooked meat. Trim off gristle, 
fat, and skin, and chop finely before measuring. Melt 
butter, add flour, and when smooth, stir in hot stock, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth and cooked. Season, add 
meat, and more seasonings if needed. Cool, shape, roll in 
crumbs, egg, and crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain on brown 
paper. Serve with or without sauce. This quantity makes 
about one hundred, allowing two rounded tablespoonfuls 
of mixture for each, or two hundred of the usual size. 

Meat Croquettes without Sauce 

5 quarts cold meat i cup finely-chopped 
2i quarts cold cereal celery 

i cup chopped green i cup minced onion 

pepper Salt and pepper to taste 

Use any remnants of cold meat, and chop fine before 
measuring. Put meat, cereal, onion, and pepper through 
meat grinder. Chop celery very fine. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly, shape, roll in crumbs, egg, and crtunbs again. 
Fry in deep fat, drain. Serve with Tomato, Brown, or 
Olive Sauce. This makes one hundred large croquettes, 
or two hundred of the usual size. 

Chicken or Veal Croquettes 

Make as for Meat Croquettes with or without Sauce, 
using all chicken or veal for the meat, substituting milk 



124 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

for the stock in sauce, and adding three tablespoons 
chopped parsley. If cereal is used, it should be light in 
color. 

Fish Croquettes 

Make as for Meat Croquettes with or without Sauce, 
using any cooked fresh fish in place of meat, substituting 
milk for stock in sauce, and adding three tablespoons 
lemon juice. If cereal is used, it should be farina, hominy, 
cream of wheat, or some other light-colored cereal. 

Creamed Finnan Haddie 
12 pounds finnan haddie 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Lay fish in large pan, cover with cold water, bring 
slowly to boiling point, simmer twenty-five minutes, drain. 
Separate carefully into flakes, add to white sauce, reheat, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, serve. Left-over fish may 
be used. 

Scalloped Fish 

3 quarts milk ij cups butter 
6 bay leaves i^ cups flour 

6 sprigs parsley i teaspoon pepper 

6 slices onion 4 quarts cold flaked fish 

4 teaspoons salt 3 cups stale crumbs 

Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, first re- 
moving the parsley, bay leaves, and onion which have been 
scalded in milk. Carefully flake, or cut into inch pieces, 
cold cod, haddock, halibut, salmon, or other fish. Arrange 
half the fish in bottom of buttered baking dishes, being 
careful not to break flakes ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
pour over half the sauce; repeat. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, bake in hot oven fifteen minutes, or until crumbs 



LEFT-OVER FISH 12$ 

are brown. Canned salmon may be used, eight pint cans 
being equivalent to four quarts of fresh fish. 

Creamed Salt Codfish 

4 quarts milk Salt to taste 

2 cups butter 3 pounds codfish 

2 cups flour I teaspoon pepper 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Put codfish into four 
quarts cold water, bring slowly to simmering point, simmer 
forty-five minutes, or until soft ; drain. Lay fish on board, 
and with a fork shred very fine, add to sauce, and season 
to taste. 

Serve alone, with baked potatoes, or in a border of 
mashed potatoes. 

Fish Hash 

5 quarts cold boiled potato i teaspoon pepper 

5 quarts cold fish Salt pork or bacon 
Salt to taste drippings 

Chop potatoes very fine, mix with minced fish and salt 
and pepper. Melt fat in pans, add fish mixture, stirring 
until well moistened, then cook slowly until well browned. 
Fold like omelet, serve with crisp bacon. 

Salmon Loaf 

6 pint cans salmon 3 cups or more milk or 
4i quarts dried bread water 

in small pieces Salt and pepper to taste 

12 eggs 

Soften bread in milk. Pick out skin and bones from 
salmon, but leave liquor. Mix all ingredients together 



126 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

very thoroughly, pack in brick-shaped pans, set in larger 
pans containing water, bake from forty-five to sixty 
minutes. Turn out on platters, garnish with parsley. 
Serve with Egg or Pickle Sauce. 

Salmon Surprise 

li quarts rice Salt 

6 pint cans salmon Pepper 

Cook rice as given under Table for Cookery of Cereals. 
Remove bones and skin from canned or fresh boiled 
salmon. Line bread tins with the warm steamed rice, fill 
centers with salmon, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover 
with rice. Steam one hour, remove to platters, serve with 
Egg Sauce. This quantity is sufficient to fill six tins nine 
and one-half inches long by four and one-fourth wide. 



' \ 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH 

White Sauce I 

f cup butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

f cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter in large sauce- 
pan, add flour, stir until smooth, and remove from fire. 
Add hot milk, stirring constantly until smooth ; return to 
double boiler and cook thirty minutes, beating hard two 
or three times. If not smooth, beat with Dover tgg beater. 
Add salt just before serving. By following these direc- 
tions there is no possible danger of scorching milk or 
sauce. This sauce is used for scalloped dishes. 

White Sauce II 

I cup butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Make same as White Sauce I. This sauce is used for 
creamed dishes. 

White Sauce III 

2i cups butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

2i cups flotu- 2 teaspoons salt 

Make same as White Sauce I. This sauce is used for 
croquettes. 

127 



128 ' RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

i^ cups butter 2 quarts hot water 

1 cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Melt one cup butter, stir in flour mixed with seasonings, 
and when smooth add boiling water, stirring constantly 
until it boils. Boil five minutes, stir in remaining butter. 
Serve with boiled or baked fish, or boiled parsnips. 

Egg Sauce 

To Drawn Butter Sauce add ten hard-cooked eggs, 
sliced or chopped. Serve with baked or boiled fish. 

Pickle Sauce 

To Drawn Butter Sauce add one teaspoon paprika and 
two cups sour cucumber pickles, chopped or sliced, and 
drained. Serve with boiled or baked fish, or boiled mutton. 

Brown Sauce 
ij cups butter 6 sprigs parsley 

2 small sliced onions i^ cups flour 

8 slices carrot 2 quarts brown stock 

4 bay leaves 2 teaspoons salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Cook first five ingredients together until browned but 
not burned, add flour. Stir until browned and add hot 
stock, stirring constantly until it boils. Boil three minutes, 
strain, and season. If a plainer sauce is desired, omit 
carrot, parsley, and bay leaves. 

Mushroom Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add two cans mushrooms, drained, 
rinsed, and sliced. Or use dried mushrooms, soaked and 
sliced. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH 1 29 

Piquante Sauce 

Make Brown Sauce. Before serving, add one-half cup 
vinegar, one teaspoon paprika, and one-half cup each 
chopped sour cucumber pickles and capers, and heat to 
boiling point. 

Spanish Sauce 

I scant cup bacon fat i^ quarts stock 

I cup chopped onion ' i teaspoon pepper 

I cup chopped pepper 2 teaspoons salt 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons kitchen 

1 pint strained tomato bouquet 

I can chopped mushrooms 

Cook onion and pepper slowly in bacon fat until soft, 
add flour, and cook two minutes. Add stock and tomato, 
stirring until it boils. Boil five minutes, season, and serve. 
The mushrooms may be omitted. Serve with roast beef, 
beefsteak, lamb chops, or veal roast. 

Plain Tomato Sauce 

Make same as White Sauce I or White Sauce 11^ sub- 
stituting strained tomato for milk. 

Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce 

2 quarts strained tomato 4 sprigs parsley 
I cup butter 8 cloves 

4 slices onion i teaspoon pepper 

4 slices carrot 2 teaspoons salt 

4 bay leaves i cup flour 

Melt butter ; when it bubbles, put in onion, carrot, pars- 
ley, bay leaves, and cloves, cook until slightly browned; 
remove seasonings. Add flour, stir until smooth, then add 
hot strained tomato, bring to boiling point, and serve. 



130 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Bechamel Sauce 

I quart white stock 2 medium-sized onions 

I quart scalded milk i teaspoon thyme 

I cup butter 6 bay leaves 

1 cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

i teaspoon pepper 

Cook onion, thyme, and bay leaves slowly in butter ten 
minutes. Stir in flour, and when smooth add hot milk 
and stock, stirring constantly until thickened and boiled ; 
strain. The seasonings may be cooked in stock instead of 
in butter, but be sure there is a full quart of liquid after 
straining. The sauce itself need not be strained, in that 
case. A yellow sauce may be made by stirring the sauce 
into the beaten yolks of eight eggs. 

Currant Jelly Sauce 

Make one and one-half quarts Brown Gravy. Add two 
half-pint jars currant jelly, stirring until dissolved. Serve 
with roast lamb. 

Philadelphia Relish 

4 quarts chopped cabbage i^ teaspoons mustard 
6 mild green peppers seed 

6 mild red peppers 3 teaspoons salt 

li quarts chopped celery 3 cups brown sugar 

2 tablespoons celery seed 2 cups vinegar 

Chop fine the first four ingredients, mix, and set in 
cool place until ready to serve, then add seasoning^, 
vinegar, and sugar. Serve with roast meat or fried oysters. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH I3I 

Mattre d'Hdtel Butter 

ij cups butter 3 tablespoons finely- 

I tablespoon salt chopped parsley 

} teaspoon pepper i cup lemon juice 

Cream butter, add Salt, pepper, and parsley, and lemon 
juice very slowly. 

Tartare Sauce 

I quart Mayonnaise i cup chopped pickles 

dressing 2 tablespoons chopped onion 

i cup capers 2 tablespoons chopped 

1 cup stoned olives parsley 

Chop very fine the capers, olives, pickles, onion, and 
parsley, and add to Mayonnaise j ust before serving. Serve 
with fried cod, haddock, halibut, or smelts. 

Horseradish Sauce 

To one and one-half cups well-drained, prepared horse- 
radish add two cups thick cream beaten until quite creamy, 
but not stiff. Season with paprika and salt. Serve with 
cold sliced tongue or roast beef. 

Cucumber Sauce 

4 large cucumbers i teaspoon paprika 

2 teaspoons salt i cup vinegar 

i teaspoon pepper i cup thick cream 

Peel cucumbers, of which there should be more than 
four, if they are not quite large. Cut in quarters length- 
wise and remove any large seeds. Chop fine and drain, 
or squeeze dry through cheesedoth. Add seasonings. 



132 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

vinegar, and cream which should be beaten until quite 
stiff. Serve with broiled fish. 

Mustard Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter i cup sugar 

i cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons mustard i quart vinegar 

1 tablespoon turmeric J teaspoon pepper 

If vinegar is very strong, use one cup water and three 
cups vinegar. Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar slowly, 
stirring until perfectly smooth. Boil until thick and 
smooth, stirring constantly ; add butter and remove from 
fire. Serve cold with ham or corned beef. 

Mint Sauce I 

2 bunches or 2 cups } cup sugar 

chopped mint 3 cups vinegar 

If vinegar is very strong, dilute with water. Wash mint 
thoroughly, remove stems and old leaves, drain, and chop. 
Mix with sugar, let stand from thirty to sixty minutes. 
Add vinegar and let stand one or more hours. 

Mint Sauce II 

6 half-pint jars currant 2 tablespoons finely- 
or barberry jelly chopped mint leaves 

Separate jelly in pieces and sprinkle chopped mint over 
top. Serve with roast lamb. 



VEGETABLES 

All vegetables should be thoroughly washed in cold 
water ; and roots and vegetables should be scrubbed with 
a small brush kept for that purpose. Wilted vegetables 
may be somewhat freshened by soaking an hour or so in 
cold water. 

Put all fresh vegetables into boiling water to cook, and 
drain as soon as tender. Soak dried vegetables several 
hours in cold water. Cook spinach, corn, and similar 
vegetables in the water in which they are soaked; but 
drain beans and add fresh water before cooking. In either 
case the water should be brought slowly to boiling point, 
and vegetables simmered until done. 

Canned beans, peas, and similar vegetables should be 
turned carefully into a colander and rinsed thoroughly in 
cold water, then left an hour or so to aerate before using. 

For the sake of greater accuracy, quantities are often 
given by weight instead of measure. 

Use one and one-half tablespoons salt to one gallon 
water for boiling fresh vegetables, adding it when vege- 
tables are about half done. 

Allow from twenty to thirty minutes for vegetables to 
come to boiling point after boiling water is added. The 
time given below is that required after boiling point is 
reached. It is impossible to give the exact time for 
cooking, as so much depends upon the age and size of 
vegetables. 

Buttered crumbs for scalloped dishes should always be 
soft, stale crumbs, never dried ones. If light in color, the 

133 



134 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

crusts may be used by grating them. Crumble the bread 
in the fingers, or rub together two pieces of bread. Use 
one-half cup butter to one quart crumbs. 



Time-Table for Boiling Vegetables 



VegttabUs 


Hour* 


Minutes 


Asparagus 




30 to 50 


Beets, young ' 


I to 2 




Beets, old 


3 to 5 




Cabbage 


fto li 




Carrots 


I to 2 




Cauliflower 




30 to 60 


Dandelions 


I to 2 




Onions 




60 to 90 


Parsnips 




45 to 90 


Peas 




20 to 40 


Potatoes 




30 


Squash, summer 




30 to 60 


Spinach and other greens 




20 to 60 


Sweet potatoes 




30 to 60 


String beans 


I to 2\ 




Shell beans 


I to 2 




Turnips, white 




40 to 60 


Turnips, yellow 


l\ to 2 





Boiled Asparagus 

8 or more large bunches 3 teaspoons salt 

asparagus i or more cups butter 

\ teaspoon pepper 

Cut off tough part of stalks, wash, tie again in bunches, 
place upright in deep kettle of boiling salted water to 



VEGETABLES 1 35 

nearly cover. Cook twenty to thirty minutes, drain. 
Arrange in dishes, and moisten with melted butter which 
has been mixed with salt and pepper. Or toast half slices 
of bread until nicely browned and well dried ; moisten with 
asparagus water, and place on platters. Arrange aspar- 
agus on toast and pour over it the melted butter. 



Creamed Asparagus 
6 large bunches asparagus 4 quarts White Sauce II 

Cut off tough ends of stalks, wash, and cut in inch pieces. 
Boil in salted water twenty minutes, or until tender, add- 
ing tips when half done. Drain, add to sauce, and serve 
on toast prepared as for Boiled Asparagus. This is a nice 
luncheon dish, served with or without cold meat, broiled 
ham, or crisp bacon. 

Boston Baked Beans 

3 quarts pea beans J cup brown sugar 

4 tablespoons salt i tablespoon mustard 
I cup molasses i teaspoon pepper 

i cup vinegar 2 pounds fat salt pork 

Pick over beans, cover with cold water, and soak over 
night. Drain, cover with cold water, add one teaspoon 
soda, bring to boiling point, and parboil fifteen minutes, 
or until skins burst when exposed to air ; drain. 

Scrape and scald pork rind, cut pork in two pieces, and 
cut through rind every half inch to the depth of one inch. 

Mix salt, sugar, mustard, and pepper, and dilute with 
molasses and vinegar. Put an equal quantity of beans 
and seasonings into each of two bean pots, bury pork in 



136 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

beans, fill pots with boiling water, cover, and cook slowly 
six or eight hours, or more, adding more water if needed. 
The Aladdin oven is excellent for this purpose. 



Stewed Lima Beans 

Soak two and one-half or three quarts dried Lima 
beans in cold water over night, drain. Add five quarts 
cold water, bring to boiling point, and cook slowly two 
hours, or until done, adding salt to taste when half done. 
The beans should be soft but not broken, and the liquid 
quite creamy. More water should be added if they get 
dry. Season with one cup butter, one-half teaspoon 
pepper, and salt to taste. Pea beans may be prepared in 
the same manner. 

Lima Beans with Cream 

Soak three quarts Lima beans in cold water over night 
or for several hours, drain. Cook slowly in plenty of boil- 
ing water until soft but not broken, adding salt when half 
done. Drain, add one quart thin cream or White Sauce I, 
salt and pepper to taste, and let simmer very slowly fifteen 
or twenty minutes on back of range, or over hot water. 



Lima Beans with Tomato 

Soak and cook as for Lima Beans with Cream. Be sure 
that they keep their shape perfectly. Melt one cup butter, 
^ add drained beans, shaking and stirring carefully until 
butter is absorbed. Add two quarts Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce, mix carefully, then put in oven until well 
heated through. 



VEGETABLES I37 

Flageolets 

Flageolets are similar in shape to Lima beans, but 
greenish in color and much smaller. Cook the same as 
Stewed Lima Beans. If they are to be used for salad, cook 
in a larger quantity of water, and drain as soon as soft. 
They should be whole and glossy. 

Spanish Beans 

3 quarts red kidney beans i teaspoon soda 

1 pound fat salt pork 6 chopped onions 

2 quarts strained tomato 4 to 6 chopped peppers 
5 tablespoons salt i teaspoon paprika 

Soak beans over night, drain, cover with water, add 
soda, boil fifteen minutes, drain. Add diced pork, stewed 
and strained tomato, seasonings, and water to barely cover. 
Simmer gently from eight to ten hours. 

Buttered String Beans -• 

Remove strings from eight pounds string beans, cut in 
inch pieces, and wash. Cook in boiling salted water from 
one to two and one-half hours, drain. Season with one 
cup butter, one-half teaspoon pepper, and more salt if 
needed. Be careful not to break beans. 

Canned String Beans 

2 No. 10 cans beans i tablespoon salt 

. I cup butter i teaspoon pdpper 

Turn beans carefully into colander and rinse thoroughly 
with cold water; put in double boiler, add melted butter 
mixed with seasonings, and heat for one hour. 



138 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

String Beans k la Lyonnaise 

2 gallon cans or 4 teaspoons salt 

8 small cans beans i teaspoon pepper 

3 small onions 3 tablespoons chopped 
2 cups butter parsley 

i cup lemon juice 

Saute sliced onions in one cup butter until soft and 
yellow. Turn beans carefully into colander and rinse 
with cold water. Turn carefully into double boiler, add 
onion mixture and seasonings, and heat for one hour. 
Cream the other cup of butter, add parsley and lemon 
juice, and add to beans a few minutes before serving. 

Boiled Beets 

15 pounds (i peck) beets | cup sugar 
I cup butter i cup vinegar 

i teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons salt 

Scrub beets well, but do not cut skin or cut stems close 
to beet, as much of the sweetness and color escape with 
the juices. Cook in boiling water until soft; about one 
hour for young beets, three to five hours for old ones. 
If gas is used for cooking, it is cheaper to use canned beets. 
Six No. 3 cans will be required. When tender, put into 
cold water and rub off skins. Slice, put in double boiler, 
add seasonings, and reheat. 

Savory Beets 

15 pounds (i peck) beets } cup sugar 

ij cups butter i cup strong vinegar 

i^ cups flour 2 tablespoons salt 

6 cups beet water ^ teaspoon pepper 

Prepare and cook as for Boiled Beets and cut in half- 
inch cubes. Cream together butter, flour, sugar, salt, and 






VEGETABLES I39 

pepper, add six cups boiling water in which beets were 
cooked, stirring constantly until smooth and well cooked. 
Reheat beets in this sauce, using double boiler. The sauce 
is quite thick and merely coats them. 

Brussels Sprouts 

Pick over six quarts Brussels sprouts, removing wilted 
leaves, and soak in cold water thirty minutes or longer. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender, drain, and add 
to three quarts White Sauce 11. 

Mattre d'Hdtel Cabbage 

12 to 15 pounds cabbage i teaspoon paprika 

li cups butter 4 tablespoons chopped 

I tablespoon salt parsley 

5 tablespoons lemon juice 

Take off outside leaves, cut in quarters, and remove 
tough stalk. Soak in cold water for an hour or so, then 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain, chop 
rather coarsely, and reheat with the following sauce: 
Cream butter, add salt and pepper, then lemon juice very 
slowly. Vinegar may be used in place of lemon juice. 
Sprinkle parsley over cabbage after it is put in serving 
dishes. 

Scalloped Cabbage 

lo pounds cabbage 3 quarts White Sauce I 

Cut in quarters, remove outside leaves and stalk, soak 
in cold water thirty minutes or more. Cook in boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain, cut each quarter in 
several pieces, put into six baking dishes, add the white 
sauce, lifting cabbage with fork, that sauce may penetrate. 



I40 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cover with buttered crumbs, bake fifteen minutes, or until 
brown. Grated cheese may be added if desired. 

Cold Slaw 

8 pounds trimmed cabbage 2 tablespoons salt 
2 cups strong vinegar i teaspoon pepper 

2 cups sugar i teaspoon paprika 

Cut off stalk and outside leaves and weigh. Soak in 
cold water for an hour or so ; drain very dry, chop fine. 
Mix ingredients just before serving. Only crisp, tender 
cabbage should be used for slaw. 

Cream Slaw 

Prepare as for Cold Slaw, let stand in refrigerator 
fifteen minutes. Drain off most of vinegar and fold in 
one quart of thick cream which has been beaten until stiff. 

Creamed Carrots and Turnips 

6J pounds carrots 3 quarts White Sauce II 

6} pounds white turnips ^ teaspoon pepper 

Cut carrots and turnips in half-inch cubes and cook 
separately in salted water until soft. Drain and add to 
white sauce. 

Boiled Carrots 

12^ pounds (i peck) i teaspoon pepper 

young carrots i cup butter or 

2 tablespoons salt i^ pints thin cream 

Wash, scrape, and cut carrots in one-fourth inch slices. 
Boil thirty minutes, or until soft, in a small amount of 
salted water. Let water nearly all evaporate instead of 



VEGETABLES I4I 

draining it off, if possible to do so without burning the 
carrots. Add butter, pepper, and salt to taste. Old carrots 
may be cooked in the same manner, but lack the sweetness 
and delicacy of flavor of new ones. 

German Carrots 

12^ pounds carrots i cup butter 

2} tablespoons salt i cup flour 

I teaspoon pepper 6 tablespoons chopped 

^ cup sugar parsley 

i teaspoon grated nutmeg 

Wash, scrape or peel, and cut carrots in half-inch cubes. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Cream butter 
and flour together, add two quarts boiling water in which 
carrots were cooked, stirring constantly. Boil five minutes, 
add seasonings and carrots; let simmer fifteen minutes^ 
and serve, sprinkled with parsley. 

B6chamel Carrots 



12} pounds carrots cut in 


I cup butter 


one-fourth inch slices 


I} cups flour 


3 peppers 


6 tablespoons sugar 


2 quarts stock 


2 tablespoons salt or 


I quart or less cream or 


more 


milk 


i teaspoon pepper 



Wash carrots, scrape or pare very thin, and slice. Put 
into kettle with stock and seeded peppers, and simmer 
until soft, then remove peppers. Cream together butter, 
flour, and seasonings, and stir into carrot mixture, diluting 
with rich milk or thin cream to make consistency of 
White Sauce II. Bring to boiling point and serve. 



142 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Buttered Cauliflower 

6 large or 9 medium- i^ or 2-cups butter 
sized cauliflowers ^ teaspoon pepper 

Remove leaves and stalks, separate into^owerets, and 
soak in cold salt water thirty minutes or more. Cook in 
salted water until tender but not broken. Drain and turn 
into serving dishes. Add pepper to melted butter and 
pour it over the cauliflower. 

Creamed Cauliflower 

Prepare and cook as for Buttered Cauliflower. Drain 
and add to three quarts White Sauce II. Grated cheese 
may be added. 

Creamed Celery 

8 quarts celery in pieces 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Wash celery, cut in inch pieces, and cook in salted water 
until tender. Drain and add to white sauce. The coarse 
outside stalks may be utilized in this way. 

Cucumbers 

Wash and pare twelve or more large cucumbers. The 
paring should be thick enough to remove all the green 
coloring. Cut in thin slices and keep in cold water until 
ready to serve. Drain and serve with vinegar, salt, and 
pepper. 

Corn on the Cob 

Remove husks and silky fibers. Boil ten minutes in 
water to cover, remove to platters, cover with napkins. 
Serve at once with salt and butter. 



VEGETABLES 143 

Com Pudding 

6 No. 2 cans com 12 eggs beaten slightly 

6 tablespoons sugar 3 quarts stale crumbs 

2 tablespoons salt i cup butter 

3 quarts milk i teaspoon pepper 

Stale or dry bread should be used, but it must be broken 
or crumbled, not ground or rolled. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly. Put into six buttered baking dishes, set pans 
in hot water, or put asbestos mats underneath. Bake in 
slow oven one hour, or until a knife comes out clean. 
Serve at once. 

Com Oysters 

2^ quarts corn pulp or 2^ cups flour 

canned com if tablespoons salt 

10 well-beaten eggs J teaspoon pepper 

Mix ingredients thoroughly and cook on hot, well- 
greased griddle, using bacon or pork fat. This makes one 
hundred or more, allowing a rounded tablespoonful of 
the mixture to each oyster. Very nice served with crisp 
bacon. 

Scalloped Corn 

7 No. 2 cans com 2| tablespoons salt 
I cup butter J teaspoon pepper 

3 cups milk 2 quarts stale crumbs 

Use stale, not dried, crumbs, and mix them with melted 
butter. Add milk and seasonings to corn. Put corn into 
six baking dishes, cover with buttered cfumbs, bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes, or until crumbs are golden 
brown. 



144 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Eggplant 

Pare six large eggplants and cut in one-third inc-i 
slices, sprinkle with salt, let stand an hour or more, and 
press out the juice. Drain, dip in crumbs, egg, and crumbs 
again, and saute in hot fat. 



Greens 

5 or 6 pecks greens 2 or more tablespoons salt 

I cup butter i teaspoon pepper 

Spinach, beet tops, dandelions, Swiss chard, or cowslips 
may be used. If beet greens are used, the little beets may 
be left on or cooked separately and used as garnish. Wash 
greens very thoroughly, picking off wilted leaves and re- 
moving roots. Cook in boiling salted water until tender, 
drain, chop, and reheat with seasonings in double boiler. 
Garnish with hard-cooked eggs and serve with vinegar. 



Boiled Onions 

li pecks onions i teaspoon pepper 

2 cups butter Salt to taste 

Peel onions, keeping them under water as much as 
possible while doing so. Put in kettle with plenty of boil- 
ing water and one-half teaspoon soda, boil two minutes, 
drain. Add boiling water to cover, boil five minutes, 
drain. Add more water and two tablespoons salt, boil 
until perfectly tender. It is better that they should lose 
their shape than that they should be underdone. Drain, 
add seasonings, heat thoroughly, and serve. 



VEGETABLES 145 

Creamed Onions 
I peck onions 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions, drain, and add to 
white sauce. 

Scalloped Onions 

I peck onions 3 quarts White Sauce I 

} teaspoon pepper i quart buttered crumbs 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions. If onions are large, 
cut them in quarters after boiling. Put into six buttered 
baking dishes, adding white sauce, pepper, and more salt 
if needed, cover with crumbs, and bake until crumbs are 
slightly browned. 

Sauted Oniona 
I peck onions or more i teaspoon pepper 
1} cups butter Salt if needed 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions, but be careful that 
they keep their shape. Melt one-half cup butter in frying 
pan, turn in one-third of the onions, sprinkle with pepper, 
and salt if needed, cook until slightly browned, then put 
in serving dishes. Repeat until all the onions are browned. 
Fewer onions may be browned at a time if necessary. 

Parsnips with Drawn Butter Sauce 

14 pounds parsnips 3 quarts water 

1} cups butter 3 teaspoons salt 

1} cups fk>ur } teaspoon pepper 

Wash and scrape parsnips, and cut in one-half inch 
slices lengthwise, then cut slices crosswise in three-inch 
lengths, or thereabouts. Cook in salted water until tender, 



146 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

but not broken. If preferred, the parsnips may be cut 
after boiling. Melt butter, add flour, stir until smooth, 
then add boiling water. Boil five minutes, season, and 
pour over parsnips. 

Saut6d Parsnips 

Wash and scrape parsnips, cook in salted water, and 
drain. They should be slightly underdone. Cut in slices 
lengthwise and brown in pork fat or butter. 

Canned Peas 

2 No. 10 cans peas 2 tablespoons salt 

I cup butter 4 tablespoons sugar 

i teaspoon pepper 

Turn peas carefully into colander, rinse well with cold 
water, and put into double boiler. Melt butter and mix 
well with seasonings, pour over peas. Cook one hour or 
until very hot. Do not stir peas, or they will be crushed 
and unattractive in appearance ; shake kettle two or three 
times instead. 

Stuffed Peppers 

25 large green peppers 2^ quarts minced veal, 
2i quarts crumbs chicken, or chopped 

i cup chopped onion nuts 

Salt to taste 

Choose mild peppers of imiform size, cut in two length- 
wise, remove seeds and tough white portions. Wash and 
cook in boiling water five minutes. Cook onion in butter 
until soft. Crumble stale, not dried, bread, and mix with 
butter and onion. Add chopped meat or nuts, salt to taste^ 



VEGETABLES 147 

and stock to moisten so that it will pack. Fill peppers 
rounding full, sprinkle with buttered crumbs, place in drip- 
ping pans with water or stock to cover bottom of pans. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, or until done. 
Serve with Plain Tomato or Brown Sauce. 



Succotash 

4 quarts canned or boiled 4 quarts green beans or 
sweet corn 2 quarts dried Lima beans 

3 tablespoons salt i teaspoon pepper 

I cup butter 

Cut hot or cold boiled sweet com from cob, or use 
canned com. If dried beans are used, soak them over 
night, drain, and cook slowly in water to barely cover 
until soft. The beans should be soft and whole, and the 
water cooked down to a creamy consistency. If there is 
a great deal of liquid, drain off some of it. Mix beans 
and com, add seasonings, and let simmer five minutes 
before serving. 

Winter Squash 

30 or more pounds squash Salt to taste 
I cup butter Sugar if needed 

Cut squash in halves, remove seeds and stringy portions, 
place in dripping pans, cover, and bake from two to two 
and one-half hours in moderate oven. Remove from shell 
with iron spoon, mash, and season to taste. 

Squash may be cut in pieces, freed from seeds and 
stringy parts, pared, and steamed tmtil soft, then mashed 
and seasoned as above. 



148 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

6 quarts canned tomatoes 3 quarts stale crumbs 

2 cups melted butter i cup sugar 

3 tablespoons salt i teaspoon pepper 

The bread should not be dried, but any stale crumbs or 
crusts that can be grated or crumbled with fingers may 
be used ; mix with melted butter. Put one cup prepared 
crumbs in bottom of each of six baking dishes. Mix 
seasonings with tomato, then turn into dishes. Cover with 
remaining crumbs. Bake about an hour in moderate oven, 
being careful not to let crumbs bum. 

Scalloped Turnip 

13} pounds white turnip 3 quarts White Sauce I 

Wash turnips, remove a thick paring, cut in half-inch 
cubes, and cook in salted water until soft. Drain, put into 
six baking dishes, pour over the white sauce, cover with 
buttered crumbs, using one quart in all. Bake long enough 
to brown crumbs. 

Turnips New York Style 

12 to 14 pounds yellow 3 cups butter melted 

turnip I teaspoon pepper 

6 tablespoons finely- Salt if needed 
chopped parsley 

Pare turnips, removing a thick paring, cut in half-inch 
cubes, and boil one and one-half hours, or until soft. 
Drain, put into serving dishes, pour over butter mixed 
with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with parsley. 



VEGETABLES 149 

Curried Vegetables 

2 quarts diced potatoes i} cups butter 

2 quarts diced carrots i} cups flour 

2 quarts diced turnips 2 diced onions 

2 small cans peas i teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons minced i} tablespoons salt 

parsley ij tablespoons curry 

3 quarts milk 

Cook carrots, white turnips, and potatoes separately in 
salted water until soft. 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft and yellow, add 
flour mixed with seasonings, stir until smooth, add hot 
milk, stirring constantly until smooth. Cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes. Add vegetables, heat well, turn into 
serving dishes, and sprinkle with parsley. 

Macedoine of Vegetables 

2 quarts diced carrots i quart string beans 

I quart diced white turnips 2 quarts diced potatoes 

I quart green peas 3 quarts Bechamel or 
I quart flageolet beans White Sauce II 

Cut carrots, turnips, and potatoes in half -inch dice, 
string beans in half-inch pieces. The vegetables should 
be cooked separately in boiling water and drained before 
adding to sauce. Add more seasonings if needed. Mix 
lightly and carefully to prevent breaking vegetables. 

Creamed Potatoes 

6 or 8 quarts cold diced 3 or 4 quarts White 

potatoes Sauce II 

i teaspoon pepper Chopped parsley 

Cut cold boiled or baked potatoes in half-inch cubes. 
Reheat in white sauce, add pepper, and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley if desired. 



150 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

8 quarts diced potatoes 3 tablespoons salt 

i cup chopped onion ^ teaspoon pepper 

2j cups bacon fat or 8 tablespoons chopped 
butter parsley 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in half-inch cubes or in slices. 
Cook onion slowly in bacon fat or butter until soft, but 
not brown. Add potatoes and seasonings, and cook until 
fat is absorbed and potatoes well heated and slightly 
browned. Sprinkle with parsley just before serving. Use 
two or three frying pans, and do not put potatoes on to 
cook until about fifteen or twenty minutes before they are 
to be served. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

8 quarts chopped cold i teaspoon pepper 

cooked potatoes 2 tablespoons salt, or more 

2i cups salt pork fat if needed 

Mix finely-chopped potatoes, melted pork fat, pepper, 
and salt to taste. Spread in shallow frying or baking pans 
and cook on range or in oven until brown underneath. 
Fold like omelet. 

Creamed Potatoes with Eggs 

5 quarts cold diced 3 quarts White Sauce I 

potatoes 24 hard- cooked eggs 

i teaspoon pepper 

Add diced potatoes and chopped whites to sauce and 
reheat. Turn into serving dishes and strain yolks over top. 



VEGETABLES I5I 

Potato Cakes 

Shape cold mashed potatoes in round, flat cakes, dredge 
with flour or not as preferred, and saute in a very small 
amount of pork or bacon fat in frying pans or on griddle. 

Delmonico Potatoes 

6 quarts cold diced 3 quarts White Sauce I 

potatoes or 3 cups grated cheese 

9 pounds peeled raw ones i quart buttered crumbs 

I teaspoon paprika 

Cook potatoes in salted water until soft, but not broken. 
When perfectly cold, cut in half-inch cubes. Grate cheese, 
sprinkle with paprika, and dissolve in sauce. Put potatoes 
in six baking dishes, pour over the sauce, lifting potatoes 
carefully with fork until sauce is well distributed. Cover 
with crumbs and brown delicately in moderate oven. 

Baked Potatoes 

Scrub thoroughly one and one-half pecks potatoes of 
uniform size. Trim off any imperfections, put into drip- 
ping pans, and bake in moderately hot oven from one and 
one-half to two hours, for potatoes of medium size. 

Austrian Potatoes 

15 pounds (l peck) | cup lemon juice 

potatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

3 cups melted butter i teaspoon paprika 

i teaspoon pepper 

Wash, pare, and cut potatoes in one-eighth inch slices. 
Parboil two minutes in salted water. Drain, put in drip- 



152 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ping pans to depth of about two inches. Bake one hour, 
or until potatoes are soft, basting with butter which has 
been mixed with seasonings. 

Hongroise Potatoes 

10 pounds potatoes cut 6 tablespoons chopped 
in half-inch cubes parsley 

li cups butter 4 teaspoons salt 

i^ ct^s flour I teaspoon paprika 

^ teaspoon onion juice 3 quarts milk 

6 egg yolks 

Weigh potatoes after peeling. Cook in salted water 
until softy but not broken. Melt butter, add onion juice 
and flour, and stir until smooth. Add hot milk, stirring 
until smooth, then cook thirty minutes in double boiler. 
Add very gradually to beaten yolks about a quart of hot 
sauce, then return to double boiler, stirring hard until 
smooth. Turn potatoes into serving dishes, pour over 
them the sauce, to which salt and paprika have been added, 
and sprinkle with parsley. 

Mashed Potatoes 

15 pounds ( I peck) i quart milk or more 

potatoes I cup butter 

5 tablespoons salt 

Pare potatoes and put into cold water until time for 
cooking. If uneven in size, cut large ones in two. Cook 
in boiling salted water until soft, drain, put through ricer, 
add seasonings, and hot milk in which butter has been 
melted. Beat until creamy, and add more salt or milk 
if needed. 



'-..V 



VEGSTABLES I53 

Mock Potato Puff 

Add enough hot milk to Mashed Potatoes to make them 
a little too moist to serve as mashed potatoes, pile lightly 
and unevenly in baking dishes, and put in hot oven long 
enough to brown slightly. Serve in same dishes. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

10 pounds (6 quarts) i} cups butter 

sliced potatoes 3 tablespoons salt 

2 quarts hot milk i teaspoon pepper 

i cup flour 

Peel potatoes before weighing; peel and slice before 
measuring. If potatoes are very large, cut them in two 
lengthwise before slicing. Parboil two minutes to remove 
strong flavor, drain. Put into six baking dishes a layer 
of potato, then a slight dredging of flour; repeat until 
potatoes are used. Dissolve salt, pepper, and butter in hot 
milk, pour over potatoes, cover, and cook in slow oven 
one and one-half hours, or until done. Remove covers 
long enough to brown potatoes delicately. 

Potatoes Baked with Bacon 

Pare one peck potatoes, remove centers lengthwise with 
apple corer. Slice bacon very thin and put a piece in each 
cavity. Place potatoes in dripping pans and bake one and 
one-half hours, or until done, basting occasionally with 
bacon fat. The centers may be used for mashed potatoes. 

Franconia Potatoes 

Pare one peck potatoes of uniform size ; if very large, 
cut them in two. Parboil ten minutes, drain, put in drip- 



154 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ping pans. Pour over them melted beef drippings, and 
bake about one and one-half hours, basting several times 
with fat in pan. The potatoes should be golden brown all 
over. Serve with roast meat. 

Mattre d'Hdtel Potatoes 

15 pounds small potatoes i teaspoon pepper 
3 cups butter 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 tablespoons salt parsley 

i cup lemon juice 

Choose quite small, uniform potatoes, old or new ; peel 
and cook in salted water until soft, but not broken. Drain, 
put in serving dishes, add sauce, and put dishes in oven 
long enough to melt butter. To make sauce, cream butter, 
add seasonings, and lemon juice very slowly. 

Broiled Potatoes 

15 pounds potatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

2 cups butter or pork fat i teaspoon pepper 

Peel potatoes and cook in salted water until nearly, but 
not quite, done. Cut in two or three slices lengthwise, 
lay in dripping pans, dot over with butter, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cook in broiler until done and slightly 
browned on both sides. Use more butter if needed. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

20 pounds (i^ pecks) 3 cups sugar 
sweet potatoes i^ cups water 

6 tablespoons butter 

Wash and pare potatoes. Cook ten minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, put in 



VEGETABLES I5S 

shallow pans. Cook sugar and water together two minutes, 
add butter, and brush potatoes. Bake about forty-five 
minutes, basting with remaining syrup. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

6 quarts mashed potatoes i teaspoon pepper 
i^ cups butter 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons salt 12 eggs or 24 yolks 

Mix ingredients thoroughly, cool, shape, roll in crumbs, 
egg, and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. This makes about one 
hundred large croquettes. 



CHEESE DISHES 

Scalloped Cheese 

5 quarts milk 5 tablespoons butter 

4 quarts dried or stale 3 tablespoons salt 

bread in pieces i teaspoon paprika 

I or more pounds cheese 12 to 16 eggs 

Heat milk and pour over bread, which should be quite 
stale, or even dried. Add grated or chopped cheese, cool. 
Add salt, pepper, melted butter, and well-beaten eggs. 
Mix well, pour into buttered baking dishes, and bake 
slowly one and one-half hours, or until done. Serve grape 
jelly with it. 



Cheese Fondue 

i, 2 quarts scalded milk { i cup butter 

,r2 quarts soft, stale bread ' 4 teaspoons mustard 

crumbs , 4 teaspoons salt 

j^*^2 pounds mild American yi teaspoon paprika 

cheese 4 24 eggs 



r 



Grate or chop cheese. Mix first six ingredients together, 
add well-beaten yolks, cut and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. 
Pour into six buttered baking dishes and bake thirty 
minutes in moderate oven. 



156 



CHEESE DISHES 157 

Cheese Cream Toast 

2 cups butter 4 quarts milk 

2} cups flour I pound or more cheese 

4 teaspoons salt ^ teaspoon paprika 

Make a sauce of the first four ingredients, following 
directions for making White Sauces. Add grated or 
chopped cheese, stir till smooth. Serve on carefully 
browned toast which has been dipped in hot water. Very 
nice served with crisp bacon as a garnish. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

A DINNER salad should be of lettuce, chiccory, Romaine, 
watercress, cucumbers, tomatoes, or other light vegetables, 
served with French Dressing. 

Luncheon salads should be of meat, fish, eggs, or the 
more nutritious vegetables, especially if served as the main 
course. 

All salad plants should be thoroughly washed, and kept 
on ice or in a cold place until served. Shake and wipe dry 
with cheesecloth. The dressing may be added ju^t before 
sending to table or served at table. Green vegetables wilt 
very quickly after the dressing is added. 

Meats or vegetables should be cut in one-half inch cubes, 
and marinated separately with French Dressing for an 
hour or so before using. Drain off any dressing not 
absorbed before mixing with other dressing. Fish should 
be flaked, or cut in cubes or uniform pieces. 

There are many simple and suitable garnishes for 
salads, but care should be taken that harmonious colors 
as well as flavors are combined in a salad. 

Hard-cooked eggs, radishes, and stuffed olives sliced 
crosswise ; canned Spanish peppers, carrots, and beets cut 
in cubes or fancy shapes; olives, capers, and shredded 
green peppers — all are attractive garnishes, if used 
judiciously. 



158 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

Boiled Dressing 
2 tablespoons salt 4 tablespoons flour 



159 



2 tablespoons mustard 
i cup sugar 
J teaspoon pepper 
I teaspoon paprika 



6 well-beaten eggs 
i cup melted butter 
4 cups hot milk 
i| cups hot vinegar 



Mix dry ingredients, add beaten eggs, pour on hot milk, 
stirring constantly. Return to double boiler and cook until 
mixture thickens, adding butter when nearly done. Re- 
move from fire and add hot vinegar. Be careful not to 
overcook dressing, or it will curdle. If it does curdle, 
remove from hot water and beat hard with Dover egg 
beater, as that will sometimes restore smoothness. 

Cream Dressing 
2 tablespoons salt 4 eggs or 8 yolks 



i^ tablespoons mustard 
5 tablespoons sugar 
5 tablespoons flour 
i teaspoon pepper 



4 tablespoons butter 
3^ cups milk 
\ cup vinegar 
1 1 cups heavy cream 



Make as Boiled Dressing. When cold, fold in cream 
which has been beaten until stiff. If dressing is to be 
used with fruit, lemon juice instead of vin^;ar is aa 
improvement. 

Sour Cream 

/ 2^ tablespoons salt 



2 tablespoons mustard 
6 tablespoons sugar 
2 tablespoons flour 



4 well-beaten eggs 
I quart sour cream 
I teaspoon pepper 
I cup vinegar 



Mix cream and beaten eggs ; mix dry ingredients thor- 
oughly, add vinegar, combine mixtures, and cook in double 
boiler until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. 



l6o RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

French Dressing 

I J tablespoons salt i teaspooa pepper 

I teaspoon mustard i cup vinegar or lemon 

1 teaspoon paprika juice 

2 cups olive oil 

Rub bottom of wide-mouthed pitcher with onion. Put 
all ingredients into pitcher and beat until creamy with 

Dover egg beater. Serve at once. 

« 

Creole French Dressing 

2 cups olive oil i cup finely-chopped 
I J cups vinegar parsley 

2 teaspoons powdered i tablespoon chopped 

sugar red pepper 

J cup finely-chopped 2 tablespoons chopped 

onion green pepper 

4 teaspoons salt 

Mix ingredients in order given, let stand one hour, then 
beat vigorously five minutes. Serve at once. 



Cream French Dressing 

4 teaspoons salt i cup lemon juice or 

i teaspoon pepper vinegar 

I teaspoon paprika 2 cups olive oil 

i^ cups heavy cream 

Mix ingredients in a wide-mouthed pitcher and beat 
with Dover egg beater until creamy. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS l6l 



Mayonnaise Dressing 



I teaspoon mustard 


I pint olive oil 


I teaspoon powdered sugar 


I tablespoon vinegar 


2 teaspoons salt 


2 tablespoons lemon 


i teaspoon paprika 


juice 


J teaspoon pepper 


2 egg yolks 


2 egg whites 



Mix dry ingredients, stir in yolks of eggs, then beat in, 
drop by drop, a little oil, using Mayonnaise mixer or an 
egg beater. When mixture begins to thicken, add a few 
drops acid, then more oil, and so continue alternating until 
oil is all used. If oil is added too rapidly, mixture will 
curdle. A smooth consistency may be restored by adding 
curdled mixture slowly to yolk of another egg. Stir in 
stiffly-beaten whites. A good quality of cottonseed salad 
oil may be used in place of olive oil, with very satisfactory 
results and at a low cost. This oil is wholesome and cheap, 
and should be used freely in its undisguised form, instead 
of paying for so-called olive oil which is often adulterated 
with cottonseed oil. If the dressing is not to be used at 
once, keep tightly covered in cold place. Before using, 
remove any drops of oil that have collected on top of 
dressing, or on sides of dish, to prevent curdling. 



Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Add to Mayonnaise Dressing, in place of whites of eggs, 
one cup thick cream beaten until stiff. This should be used 
the day it is made. 



l62 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Apple and Celery Salad 

4 quarts apples Cream or Cream Mayon- 

2 quarts celery naise Dressing 

i cup lemon juice 

Cut apples in one-half inch cubes, and celery in pieces 
of the same size, before measuring. Marinate apples with 
lemon juice or French Dressing) as fast as cut, to prevent 
discoloration. Just before serving mix apple, celery, and 
Cream or Cream Mayonnaise Dressing. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves and put a spoonful of dressing on top of 
each serving. One cup of English walnut meats, broken 
in pieces, may be added, if desired. 

Apple and Banana Salad 

4 quarts apples Cream or Cream Mayon- 

8 large bananas naise 

i cup lemon juice 

Cut apples in quarters, then in one- fourth inch slices ; 
cut bananas in slices. Mix and serve as Apple and Celery 
Salad. French Dressing may be used instead of lemon 
juice for marinating fruit. 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Cut bananas in two lengthwise, lay each piece on a bed 
of lettuce leaves, mask with Cream or Cream Mayonnaise 
Dressing, and sprinkle with chopped nuts — English wal- 
nuts, pecans, or peanuts. 

Cucumber Salad 

Peel and slice eight large or twelve small crisp cucum- 
bers, pile on lettuce leaves, and serve with French or 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 163 

Creole Dressing. This salad may be varied by combining 
with sliced radishes, shredded green peppers, or shredded 
Bermuda onions. 

Cabbage Salad 

8 pounds cabbage Boiled Dressing 

Remove outside leaves and stalks from solid, heavy 
heads of cabbage* Cut in quarters, soak for an hour or 
so in cold water. Drain, wipe dry, shred or chop fine, 
mix with Boiled or Sour Cream Dressing, and serve in 
salad bowls or cabbage shells. 

Cabbage and Celery Salad 

4 pounds cabbage Boiled, Sour Cream, or 

4 quarts celery Cream Dressing 

Shred cabbage fine and cut celery stalks in thin slices 
crosswise. Mix and serve as Cobhagp Salad. 

Cheese Salad 

Cut Neufchatel cheese in small cubes and serve on 
lettuce leaves or watercress, with French, Creole, or Cream 
French Dressing. 

Or mix cheese with very finely-chopped parsley, lettuce, 
or watercress, or with paprika, and shape in small balls. 

Uplands Salad 

12 Neufchatel cheeses | cup chopped nuts 

i cup chopped olives i teaspoon salt 

f cup chopped green i teaspoon paprika 
peppers 

Chop olives, mild peppers, and English walnuts very 
fine. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, pack in oblong 



164 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

t 

form, let stand two hours or more. Cut in one-half inch 
slices and break or cut each slice in cubes, serve on lettuce 
leaves with French or Cream French Dressing. Cottage 
cheese may be used instead of Neufchatel. 



Cheese and Pineapple Salad 

6 Neufchatel cheeses French or 

2 No. 3 cans pineapple Cream French Dressing 

Cut cheese and pineapple in one-half inch cubes, arrange 
on lettuce leaves, and serve with French or Cream French 
Dressing. 

Chicken Salad 

5 quarts chicken or 5 quarts celery 

' chicken and veal I cup French Dressing 

Mayonnaise Pressing 

Cut cold boiled or roasted chicken in one-half inch cubes 
or pieces and marinate with French Dressing. Cut celery 
in half-inch pieces. Just before serving, mix chicken and 
celery, pile on lettuce leaves, and put a tablespoonful 
dressing on top of each serving. Garnish with hard-cooked 

Daisy Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in two crosswise, remove yolks 
without breaking whites, and rub through strainer. Cut 
each half of whites in eight sections lengthwise. Arrange 
lettuce for individual servings, put a spoonful of Mayon- 
naise, Boiled, or Sour Cream Dressing in center of each. 
Place around dressing the white segments, to form petals, 
and sprinkle over dressing the yolks, which have been 
mixed with salt and pepper and rubbed through a strainer. 






SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS I65 

Egg Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in slices, place on lettuce leaves, 
and put a spoonful of Mayonnaise or Boiled Dressing on 
top of each serving. 

Fruit Salad 

2 dozen oranges 2 No. 3 cans pineapple 

2 dozen bananas 6 heads lettuce 

Peel bananas and cut in one-fourth inch slices. Peel 
oranges and separate pulp from each section. Drain pine- 
apple and cut in one-half inch cubes. Malaga grapes may 
be used in place of part of the oranges and bananas. Com- 
bine f ruitSy mix with French Dressing, and serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Macedoine Salad 

2 quarts string beans 2 quarts carrots or beets 

2 quarts peas or flageolets 6 heads lettuce 

Any left-over vegetables, in any proportion, may be used 
instead of those givenu Cut string beans in inch pieces, 
carrots and beets in one-half inch cubes. Marinate each 
vegetable separately with French Dressing. Arrange 
lettuce for individual servings, put a small mound of peas 
or flageolets in center, surround with string beans, and 
scatter over top a spoonful of carrot or beet cubes. Serve 
with French or Creole Dressing. 

Tomato Salad 

Tomatoes for salad should be ripe and firm. About 
one peck will be required. Plunge into boiling water for 
a few seconds, peel, cut out stem, and chill. Just before 



l66 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

using, cut in halves, or in half-in<^ slices crosswise, or 
in six sections lengthwise. Place on lettuce leaves and 
serve with French, Creole, or Cream French Dressing. 
Mayonnaise Dressing is also used sometimes. 

Tomato Salad may be varied in many ways, of which 
a few are suggested below. 

Tomato and Pepper. Wash four large, mild green 
peppers, remove seeds and white membranes, cut cross- 
wise in thin shreds or slices, and use as garnish. 

Tomato and Cucumber. Pare six cucumbers, cut in 
dice, and put a spoonful over tomatoes. 

Tomato and Cheese. Cut tomatoes in halves and place 
each on a bed of lettuce leaves. Put on top a few small 
cubes or balls of Neufchatel cheese. Shredded pepper may 
be added if desired. 



Potato Salad 

9 quarts potato cubes z^ cups oUve oil or 

1 quart celery melted butter 
5 tablespoons salt i^ cups vinegar 

2 teaspoons pepper ^ cup chopped green 
I teaspoon paprika peppers 

2 onions finely minced 

Sour cucumber pickles cut in one-half inch cubes may 
be used in place of a part of the vinegar, and celery salt 
in place of the celery. Mix ingredients thoroughly but 
carefully, let stand thirty minutes or so to chilL Serve in 
salad bowl. Garnish with watercress or parsley ; and with 
hard-cooked eggs, chopped pimientos, or stuffed olives cut 
in thin slices. Boiled or Mayonnaise Dressing may be 
served with this salad if desired. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 167 

Salmon Salad I 

6 pint cans salmon 6 cups cucumber pickles 

3 quarts coarsely-chopped cut in pieces 

cabbage 6 tablespoons vinegar 

1 tablespoon celery salt i teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons salt 24 hard-cooked eggs 

Remove bones and skin from salmon and break in 
pieces. Cut pickles and eggs in pieces. Mix all ingredi- 
ents together. Garnish with watercress or celery tops. 
Serve in salad bowls or on platters. 

Salmon Salad II 

8 pint cans salmon or 6 heads lettuce 

4 quarts flaked fresh fish Mayonnaise Dressing 

Drain salmon, remove bones and skin, and lM*eak in 
pieces. If fresh fish is used, remove bones and skin and 
flake carefully, or cut neatly in pieces. Pile salmon on 
lettuce leaves and put over each serving a spoonful of 
dressing. 



PASTRY 

Plain Paste 

3 quarts flour 2} cups lard 

4 teaspoons salt Cold water 

Mix flour and salt. Add lard, and chop or cut or rub 
with tips of fingers until well mixed. Moisten to a stiff 
dough with cold water, being careful not to use too much. 
No matter how much shortening is used, if too much 
moisture is added, the crust will be hard and tough. The 
dough should be so dry that it is really difficult to roll. 
If pies are to have an upper crust, reserve two tablespoons 
lard and dot over upper crusts just before putting in oven. 
This gives pies a flaky appearance. 

In making pies with two crusts, the upper crust should 
always be perforated to allow escape of steam. The lower 
crust should be moistened with water around edge before 
pressing together the two edges, in order to prevent 
separation. This quantity of paste makes enough for eight 
or nine pies with two crusts. 

Always bake pies on bottom of range oven or on lower 
grate of gas oven, never on upper grate of oven, or lower 
crust will be underdone. 

Apple Pie 

4i cups apple i teaspoon butter 

i teaspoon nutmeg or i teaspoon salt 

cinnamon i cup sugar 

Line plates with paste. Pare, core, and cut apples in 
eighths. Mix sugar, salt, and spice; put part of sugar 

168 



PASTRY 169 

in bottom of plates, fill with apples, cover with remaining 
sugar. Dot over top with bits of butter. Moisten edges 
of lower crusts, put on upper crusts, and press edges firmly 
together. Use above proportions for each pie. 

Pximpkin Pie 

2 quarts milk 4I cups sugar 

12 eggs 6 tablespoons molasses 

3 cans or 3 quarts 2 tablespoons salt 

pumpkin 2 tablespoons ginger 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 

Steam pumpkin and rub through sieve, or use canned. 
Mix sugar, salt, and spices, add pumpkin, beaten eggs, 
milk, and molasses. Bake slowly forty to fifty minutes, 
or until knife comes out clean. This quantity makes eight 
or nine pies. 

Lemon Pie 

7 scant cups sugar 1} cups lemon juice 
7 cups boiling water or 9 lemons 

1} cups cornstarch 3 tablespoons butter 

18 egg yolks i cup powdered sugar 

i teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Mix cornstarch, sale, and sugar, add boiling water, 
stirring constantly. Cook five minutes and add gradually 
to egg yolks. Add butter, grated rind and juice of lemons. 
Line eight or nine plates with paste, turn in cooled mix- 
ture, bake until pastry is done. Cool slightly, cover with 
meringue made as follows : 

Meringue. Beat egg whites until stiff, add powdered 
sugar gradually, and continue beating, then add flavoring. 
Pile lightly on pies, leaving surface uneven ; bake fifteen 
minutes in slow oven. 



170 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Custard Pie 

24 eggs I teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar 4 quarts milk 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt, and milk. Line 
plates with crust, building up fluted rims, and fill with 
mixture. Grate nutmeg over top. Place in hot oven at 
first to set crust. Decrease heat quickly. Bake in slow 
oven until custard is firm in center. This quantity makes 
eight deep pies. 

Blueberry Pie 

6 quarts berries 4 teaspoons vinegar 

2 quarts sugar i teaspoon salt 

Line eight or nine plates with crust Mix sugar, salt, 
and one cup of fiour. Fill crusts with berries, add sugar 
and vinegar, cover with crust, and bake until berries are 
done and crust slightly browned. 

Blackberry or Raspberry Pie 

Use recipe for Blueberry Pic, omitting vinegar and one- 
half the fiour. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

4 quarts cranberries 2f quarts sugar 

i^ quarts stoned raisins 2^ cups water 

I cup flour 4 tablespoons butter 

Put cranberries and raisins through meat chopper, mix 
with sugar, fiour, and water. Line plates with crust, put 
in filling, dot over with butter, cover with crust, and bake 
in moderate oven. 



PASTRY 171 

Cranberry Tart Filling 

6 cups cranberries 6 cups sugar 

3 cups stoned raisins 3 cups water 

Put berries and raisins through meat chopper. Cook all 
ingredients together until of consistency of jam, add six 
teaspoons vanilla. Cool, and use as filling for tarts. 

Mince Meat 
1 1 quarts chopped meat 2 tablespoons cinnamon 



2^ quarts chopped apple 


i^ teaspoons mace 


I quart brown sugar 


i^ teaspoons cloves 


} quart granulated sugar 


} cup vinegar 


2 cups raisins 


3 oranges 


2 cups currants 


3 lemons 


3 cups molasses 


f pound citron chopped 


3 cups meat liquor 


I tablespoon lemon 


Salt to taste 


extract 



I teaspoon almond extract 

Mix ingredients except oranges, lemons, and flavoring, 
and cook slowly two hours, or until done. Add grated rind 
and juice of lemons and oranges, and extract. 



HOT DESSERTS 

Apple Tapioca 

3 cups minute tapioca 2 teaspoons salt 

3 quarts boiling water 2 cups sugar 

f peck apples 

Add salt and boiling water to tapioca and cook in double 
boiler until transparent. Pare, quarter, and core tart 
apples, put into buttered baking dishes, add sugar and 
tapioca. Bake an hour or more in moderate oven. The 
apples should be quite soft Serve warm with sugar and 
cream. 

Prune Pudding 

4 quarts milk 2 cups sugar 

i^ cups cornstarch 4 teaspoons vanilla 

18 egg yolks 3 pounds prunes 

3 teaspoons salt 18 egg whites 

Soak prunes twenty-four hours or more in water to 
barely cover them. Cook in same water in double boiler 
until soft ; remove stones. Mix cornstarch, salt, and sugar, 
add hot milk, and cook in double boiler thirty minutes, 
stirring often. Add mixture to beaten yolks, stirring until 
smooth. Put prunes into buttered baking dishes, pour 
over them the custard, bake twenty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Make meringue of egg whites and one cup of sugar 
beaten until stiff, pile lightly on prune mixture, bake in 
very slow oven tmtil slightly browned. Serve warm or 
cold. 

172 



HOT DESSERTS 173 

Cream of Rice Pudding 

J cup rice J cup sugar 

2 quarts milk i teaspoon salt 

J teaspoon cinnamon 

Prepare above proportions for each one of three making 
dishes. Wash rice, mix ingredients, put into buttered 
baking dishes, and bake slowly from four to five hours, 
or until of a creamy consistency. During first hour stir 
occasionally with a fork. If cooked too fast it will curdle.* 
Serve quite warm or very cold. 



Indian Pudding 

4i quarts scalded milk 2 cups molasses 

1} cups Indian meal 4 teaspoons salt 

4 teaspoons ginger 

Add milk slowly to corn meal, cook twenty minutes in 
double boiler, add molasses, salt, and ginger. Pour into 
buttered baking dishes and bake three or four hours in 
slow oven. It will not whey if baked too rapidly. Serve 
with cream. 

Cracker Pudding 

i^ pounds crackers | cup butter 

5 quarts scalded milk 5 teaspoons salt 
10 eggs 5 teaspoons cinnamon 

S cups brown sugar 2 teaspoons nutmeg 

3 cups plumped raisins 

Split crackers, spread with butter, add hot milk, and 
let stand an hour or more. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar 



174 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

mixed with spices, and turn into cracker mixture; add 
raisins. Put into buttered baking dishes, bake slowly one 
hour, or until knife comes out clean. The deeper the bak- 
ing dish the longer the time required for baking. Stir 
occasionally during first half hour. Serve with Vanilla 
Sauce. 

Orange Marmalade Pudding 

4 quarts fine bread 4 quarts milk 

crumbs 18 eggs 

I quart sugar f cup butter 

4 cups orange marmalade 

Cream butter and sugar together, add beaten yolks, 
milk, bread crumbs, and whites beaten to a froth. Put a 
layer in bottom of buttered baking dishes, spread with 
marmalade, then another layer of the custard mixture, 
then one of marmalade, and finish with the custard. Serve 
with sweetened cream or custard sauce. 

Cariunel Bread Pudding 

2^ cups sugar 10 well-beaten eggs 

f cup water 3 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts hot milk 5 pints dry bread in small 
J cup melted butter pieces 

Caramelize sugar, add water, and stir until dissolved, 
then add to hot milk. Turn milk over bread, add salt and 
butter. When lukewarm, add eggs, turn into shallow 
baking dishes, and bake slowly forty-five minutes, or until 
knife comes out clean. Serve with whipped cream and 
caramel sauce made as follows: Caramelize three cups 
sugar until light brown, add three cups water, and simmer 
fifteen minutes, or to a thick syrup. 



HOT DESSERTS 175 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

2i quarts stale bread lo ounces chocolate 

crumbs or dry bread 3 cups sugar 

in small pieces 10 eggs well beaten 

5 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

5 teaspoons vanilla 

Soak bread in hot milk until soft. Melt chocolate in 
saucepan over hot water, add one-half the sugar, and milk 
enough (from the bread and milk) to pour. Mix all in- 
gredients, turn into shallow baking dishes, and bake slowly 
one hour, or until knife comes out clean. Serve with 
Hard or Sunshine Sauce, or with whipped cream. 

Spiced Pudding 

2^ quarts dried bread in 2 cups sugar 

small pieces 3 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons mixed spice 
2 cups molasses (cinnamon, cloves, all- 

2 cups raisins spice, nutmeg) 

Soak bread in milk until soft, add other ingredients, and 
mix well. Put into shallow baking dishes and bake slowly 
one hour, or until knife comes out clean. Stir two or three 
times during first fifteen minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Prune Whip 
4 pounds prunes 24 egg whites 

2 pounds sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Soak prunes over night in water to barely cover, cook 
in double boiler until soft, stone, and rub through puree 



176 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Strainer. The mixture should be quite thick. Add sugfar, 
and fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs and lemon juice. 
Put into baking dishes and bake about twenty minutes in 
slow oven. Serve hot or cold, with Soft Custard Sauce 
or sweetened whipped cream. 

Other fruits may be used instead of prunes. 



Baked Chocolate Pudding 

14 cups butter 6 cups flour 

6 cups sugar 3 tablespoons baking 

6 eggs powder 

6 cups milk ij pounds chocolate 

Cream butter, add sugar, and mix well, then stir in 
well-beaten eggs. Dissolve chocolate over hot water, add 
milk, combine the two mixtures, and add flour which has 
been sifted with baking powder. If put into six baking 
dishes, it will require about forty minutes in moderate 
oven for baking. Serve at once, as it falls as soon as it 
begins to cool. Serve with Sunshine Sauce. 

Honeycomb Pudding 

5 cups sugar 2^ cups butter 

5 cups flour 2^ cups lukewarm milk 

5 cups molasses 5 teaspoons soda 

20 well-beaten eggs 

Mix sugar and flour and add molasses. Melt butter in 
milk and add soda. Combine mixtures and add eggs. 
Turn into well-greased oblong pans and bake in moderate 
oven. Ser\e at once with Cream Sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS 177 

Apple Dumplings 

3 quarts flour i^ cups shortening 

2 tablespoons baking 2 tablespoons salt 

powder 3 cups sugar 

3 cups water 50 apples 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together ; work in 
shortening and add water to moisten enough to roll out. 
Cut paste in rounds one-fourth inch in thickness, place 
an apple in center of each, fill cavity with sugar and cinna- 
mon or nutmeg, draw paste around apple, folding and 
pinching edges together, place in pan rough side down. 
Bake forty-five to sixty minutes. When about half done, 
pour boiling water around apples to depth of one-half inch. 
The apples should be quite soft; they may be tested by 
pricking with fork. 

Serve with Vanilla, Lemon, or Nutmeg Sauce, or with 
sugar and cream. 

Egg Roll 

3 quarts flour 3 cups milk or milk and 

6 eggs water 

4i teaspoons salt i^ cups shortening 

6 tablespoons baking powder 

Sift dry ingredients together, cut or rub in shortening, 
add milk gradually, mixing to as soft a dough as can be 
handled. Sometimes a little more or less milk must be 
used to make it of the right consistency. This is nice for 
shortcake and puddings. Brush over top of crust with 
milk or white of egg and sprinkle with sugar. Bake in hot 
oven. 



178 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Baked Apple Pudding 

1 peck apples 3 teaspoons cinnamon or 
l^ quarts sugar nutmeg 

Egg Roll 

Peel, quarter, and core apples. Fill baking dishes half 
full, add sugar, spice, and water to come half way to top. 
Cover and bake until about half done. Roll Egg Roll 
mixture to one-half inch in thickness and of a size to fit 
baking dishes, make an opening in center, cover apple, and 
bake thirty minutes, or until done, in hot oven. Serve with 
Vanilla or Nutmeg Sauce, or with cream and maple syrup. 
Canned or fresh peaches or berries may be used in the 
same way. Serve with the fruit on top. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

2 quarts flour 4 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt i cup shortening 

6 tablespoons baking 3f cups milk 

powder i cup sugar . 

i peck apples 

Mix dry ingredients ; beat eggs, add milk, and mix with 
dry ingredients, then add melted shortening. Pour into 
well-greased shallow cake pans. Cut apples into sixteenths, 
lay them in parallel rows in the dough, pressing the edges 
lightly into it. Brush top with melted butter, sprinkle with 
one cup sugar mixed with two teaspoons cinnamon. Serve 
with Vanilla or Nutmeg Sauce, or with sugar and cream. 

Fruit Puffs 

Make Egg Roll mixture, using only whites of eggs, 
and milk to make a drop dough. Put a spoonful of canned 



HOT DESSERTS I79 

or preserved peaches or other fruit in bottom of well- 
buttered cups or individual molds, fill cups half full of 
dough, add steam thirty-five minutes. Serve with fruit 
juice sweetened to taste. 

Cottage Pudding 

5 eggs 2j quarts flour 

5 cups sugar 5 teaspoons vanilla 

f cup melted butter 3 tablespoons baking 

3 J cups milk powder 

I teaspoon salt 

Sift dry ingredients together, add sugar and milk mixed 
with beaten egg yolks, then melted butter. Fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites of eggs, turn into well-greased shallow pans, 
bake about forty-five minutes in moderate oven. Serve 
with Vanilla, Strawberry, Orange, or Chocolate Sauce I. 

Steamed Pudding 

1 1 cups butter 4^ tablespoons baking 
2 cups sugar powder 

2^ quarts flour i teaspoon salt 

I quart milk 4 eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients and rub in butter with tips 
of fingers. Beat eggs, add milk, and combine mixtures. 
Put in buttered molds, cover, and steam two hours. Serve 
with hot apple sauce and Hard Sauce. 

Strawberry Shortcake 
Egg Roll 8 boxes strawberries 

Hull strawberries and cut in pieces. Add sugar to taste 
and let stand for a -short time where they will warm 



l80 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

slightly. Pat and roll Egg Roll mixture to one-half inch 
thickness, and bake in hot oven in pie tins or in small 
rounds like biscuit. Split and spread with butter, put 
berries between layers and on top. Serve with the fruit 
juice, and cream if desired. 

Fresh or canned peaches, apricots, raspberries, or other 
fruit may be used in place of strawberries. 



Graham Pudding 

2f cups molasses 2f teaspoons soda 

if cups shortening 2 quarts sifted Graham 

2| cups milk flour 

5 eggs I quart raisins 

5 teaspoons salt 

Melt shortening, add molasses, milk, well-beaten eggs, 
dry ingredients mixed and sifted, and raisins. Steam 
four hours. Serve with Creamy or Sterling Sauce. 



Suet Pudding 

3 cups finely-chopped 3 teaspoons soda 
suet 4 teaspoons salt 

3 cups molasses 2 teaspoons ginger 

3 cups milk 2 teaspoons nutmeg 

2i quarts flour i teaspoon cloves 

I tablespoon cinnamon 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk 
to suet; combine mixtures. Turn into greased molds, 
cover, and steam three hours. Serve with Sterling Sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS l8l 

Bellevue Pudding 

I quart molasses i quart sweet milk 

1 cup shortening 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 quarts bread flour 4 teaspoons cloves 

4 teaspoons soda 

Dissolve soda in milk. Melt shortening, add molasses, 
milk, and dry ingredients, turn into greased molds, steam 
two and one-half hours. Serve with Creamy Sauce. 

Nut Pudding 

3 cups molasses 3 cups chopped suet 
3 cups sweet milk 3 cups seeded raisins 
7i cups flour 3 cups English walnuts 

3 teaspoons soda } pound chopped figs 
I teaspoon salt 2 small nutmegs 

Sift dry ingredients together. Mix fruit and suet and 
add molasses ; then add milk and flour alternately. Steam 
three and one-half hours. Serve with Foamy Sauce. 

English Plum Pudding 

I pound chopped beef suet i pound chopped raisins 

1 pound flour i pound currants 

4 teaspoons baking powder i pound brown sugar 

2 teaspoons cinnamon i pound citron cut fine 
I teaspoon cloves i pound candied orange 
I teaspoon mace peel 

I teaspoon salt i cup sweet milk 

4 well-beaten eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add finely-chopped suet 
and fruit, and then milk and eggs. Steam six hours. This 
makes enough for two two-quart molds. 



l82 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Apples 

6 quarts sliced apples 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

6 quarts soft bread crumbs i^ cups butter 

4 cups sugar 3 cups or more water 

Mix melted butter and crumbs, and put a layer in 
bottom of baking dishes. Cover with a layer of apple, 
sprinkle with sugar mixed with cinnamon. Continue in 
this way until there are three layers of bread and two of 
apple. Add water and bake in moderate oven one and 
one-half hours, or until apples are cooked to pieces. Keep 
dishes covered part of the time. The crumbs should be 
delicately browned on top. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Apple Charlotte 

16 pounds apples ij cups melted butter 

2 quarts sugar i tablespoon cinnamon 

Pare, quarter, and core apples, and stew until tender; 
add sugar and cinnamon. Cut bread one- fourth inch thick, 
removing crusts. Brush slices with melted butter and line 
sides of baking dishes. Put in apple sauce, cover with 
bread having buttered side up, sprinkle with sugar, and 
bake forty-five minutes, or until bread is golden brown. 
Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Scalloped Rhubarb 

5 quarts soft bread 8 pounds rhubarb cut in 

crumbs inch pieces 

I J cups melted butter 2 quarts sugar 
mixed with crumbs 

Butter baking dishes, put in a layer of crumbs, then 
rhubarb and sugar, and so continue until ingredients are 



HOT DESSERTS 183 

used. The top layer should be crumbs. Bake one hour, 
or until rhubarb is soft and crumbs are slightly brown on 
top. A little water may be added if necessary. Serve 
warm with Hard Sauce. 



PUDDING SAUCES 

Apricot Sauce 

2 quarts apricot pulp i quart heavy cream 

Sugar to taste 

Soak dried apricots several hours or over night in water 
to barely cover. Gx)k slowly in the same water until soft ; 
rub through a strainer. Canned apricots may be used if 
preferred. Beat cream until stiff, add to apricot pulp, 
and sweeten to taste. 

Chocolate Sauce I 

3 quarts sugar 12 ounces chocolate 
1} quarts boiling water 4 tablespoons vanilla 

Cook sugar, chocolate, and water until it threads. Beat 
thoroughly with Dover egg beater, add vanilla, and serve. 

Chocolate Sauce II 

5 ounces cocoa | cup cold water 

2} cups lukewarm water i teaspoon salt 

2^ cups sugar i quart boilmg water 

^ cup cornstarch f tablespoon vanilla 

Mix cocoa with lukewarm water, add boiling water, 
stirring constantly until it boils. Mix cornstarch with cold 
water and add to hot mixture. Bring to boiling point, 
add sugar and salt. Cook in double boiler one hour, add 
vanilla, and serve hot or cold with puddings or ice cream. 

184 



PUDDING SAUCES 185 

Caramel Sauce 

2 quarts sugar 2 quarts water 

Put sugar in an iron frying pan, and stir until melted 
and golden brown in color. Add water and simmer fifteen 
minutes. 

Creamy Sauce 

5 cups powdered sugar 5 well-beaten eggs 
2\ cups butter f cup boiling water 

5 teaspoons vanilla 

Rub sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs, and beat 
well. Just before serving add boiling water and vanilla. 

Cream Sauce 

5 eggs 3 cups heavy cream 

3I cups powdered sugar \ teaspoon sah 

Beat whites until stiff, add powdered sugar, beating al! 
the time ; add beaten yolks and fold in cream, which has 
been whipped until stiff. 

Foamy Sauce 

3 cups powdered sugar 3 cups cream 
1} cups butter 6 egg whites 

Cream sugar and butter together. Beat into this cream 
and slightly-beaten egg whites. Put into double boiler 
and beat until smooth and creamy. Cook until it thickens 
and serve at once. 



l86 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fruit Sauce 

2 quarts fruit syrup 4 tablespoons cornstarch 

Sugar to taste 

Drain off syrup from canned fruit and bring to boiling 
point. Mix cornstarch with sugar, or with a little cold 
syrup, add boiling syrup, and boil ten or fifteen minutes, 
stirring often. Serve with any dessert in which the fruit 
itself has been used. 

Grape Sauce 

Make same as Strawberry Sauce. 
Use stewed or canned Concord grapes. If they are very 
sweet, use only half the required amount of sugar. 

Hard Sauce 

2 cups butter \ cup boiling water 

6 cups powdered sugar 2 teaspoons lemon extract 

Pour boiling water over butter, stir until creamy, then 
add gradually the sugar and lemon. 

Lemon Sauce 

1 quart sugar \ cup butter 

2 quarts boiling water \ cup lemon juice 

\ cup cornstarch or i teaspoon lemon extract 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add water, stirring constantly 
until smooth. Boil five minutes, remove from fire, and 
add butter and flavorings. 



PUDDING SAUCES 187 

Nutmeg Sauce 

Make same as Lemon Sauce, using four teaspoons lemon 
extract and four teaspoons nutmeg in place of lemon juice. 

Orange Sauce 

6 tablespoons cornstarch Grated rind of one-half 
if cups sugar lemon 

if quarts boiling water i tablespoon lemon juice 

Grated rind of one orange J cup orange juice 

f cup butter 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add boiling water, stirring 
until it thickens. Boil fifteen minutes, or cook one hour 
in double boiler. Add butter and fruit juice. Serve hot. 

Strawberry Sauce 

ij cups butter 4 cups powdered 

3 cups strawberry pulp sugar 

and juice 4 egg whites 

Cream butter and sugar together, add stifHy-beaten 
whites and strained strawberries. Beat well before 
serving. 

Sunshine Sauce 

6 egg yolks 3 cups thick cream 

3 cups sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Stir beaten yolks and sugar together, add cream which 
has been whipped until stiff, and vanilla. 

Vanilla Sauce 

Make like Lemon Sauce, using two tablespoons vanilla 
in place of nutmeg and lemon. 



l88 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Sterling Sauce 

3 cups butter 6 teaspoons vanilla 

6 cups brown sugar i^ cups cream or milk 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and milk and flavor- 
ing very slowly, to prevent separation. 

Soft Custard Sauce 

1} quarts milk g tablespoons sugar 

9 egg yolks or 2| teaspoons vanilla 

5 small eggs f teaspoon salt 

Beat yolks slightly (if whole eggs are used beat them 
thoroughly) ; add sugar and salt, then pour hot milk 
slowly into them. Return to double boiler and cook until 
mixture thickens ; add vanilla. If cooked too much, cus- 
tard will curdle. In that case, set saucepan in cold water 
and beat custard with Dover tgg beater until smooth. 



COLD DESSERTS 

« 

Baked Custard 

6 quarts scalded milk 3 cups sugar 

18 to 36 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt, and slowly the 
scalded milk. Turn into buttered baking dishes placed 
in larger pans containing hot water. Sprinkle with nut- 
meg and bake slowly until custard is firm. When a silver 
knife comes out clean, the custard is done. The smaller 
number of eggs makes a delicious custard, but not one 
which keeps its shape as perfectly as with the larger 
number. 

Caramel Custard 

6 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

18 to 36 eggs 3 cups sugar 

2 tablespoons vanilla 

Put sugar into an iron frying pan, stir constantly until 
melted and light brown in color. Add milk gradually, 
being careful that it does not bubble over when added to 
hot syrup. As soon as sugar is dissolved in milk, add 
to slightly-beaten eggs. Add salt and vanilla, pour into 
buttered baking dishes which have been placed in larger 
pans containing hot water, and bake slowly until custard 
is firm. The custard is done when a knife comes out clean. 
If cooked too long or too fast, custard will whey. The 
larger the number of eggs used, the firmer the custard 
will be. Serve with Caramel Sauce. 

189 



IpO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Plain Blanc Mange 

4f quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

2^ cups cornstarch 5 teaspoons vanilla if 

3 cups cold milk desired 

i^ cups sugar 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt together, and mix to a 
smooth paste with cold milk. Add to scalded milk, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth, and cook forty-five minutes 
in double boiler, stirring occasionally. Serve warm or cold 
with cream and sugar and sweet jelly. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 

4} quarts scalded nnSlf 10 ounces chocolate 
2f tcups cornstarch i^ cups sugar 

3 cups cold milk i^ cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 5 teaspoons vanilla 

Mix cornstarch with cold milk until smooth, add slowly 
to hot milk, and cook in double boiler forty-five minutes, 
stirring often to prevent lumps. 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add sugar and boiling 
water, stir until smooth, and add to above mixture, stir- 
ring until thoroughly mixed. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Ribbon Cornstarch Pudding 

3I quarts scalded milk 12 eggs 

2 cups cornstarch 4 teaspoons vanilla 

2 cups cold milk 3 ounces chocolate 

2 cups sugar 3 or 4 cups prunes 

2 teaspoons salt 6 tablespoons sugar 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt, moisten with cold milk, 
add to hot milk, and cook forty-five minutes in double 



COLD DESSERTS I9I 

boSer, stirring often. Stir hot mixture into beaten egg 
yolks, add vanilla, and cool slightly, then fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites. Turn one-third of mixture into saiKepan, 
mix with it melted chocolate, sugar, and prunes which 
have been stoned and cut in pieces. Cook one minute. 
Put into an oblong mold one-half the white mixture, make 
a smooth, even surface, spread over it the chocolate mix- 
ture, and finish with a layer of white on top. Chill and 
serve with thin cream. 

Caramel Pudding 

6 cups brown sugar 2 cups cold water 

2 cups butter 2 teaspoons salt 

4| quarts boiling water 2 tablespoons vanilta 

2 J cups cornstarch 3 cups English walnuts 

Cook sugar and butter together until a rich golden 
brown. Add water and thicken with cornstarch mixed 
to paste with cold water. Stir until smooth and cook 
forty-five minutes in double boiler, stirring often. Add 
salt, vanilla, and nuts. Chill and serve with plain cream. 

Norwegian Prune Pudding 

2| pounds prunes 5 inch-pieces cinnamon 

2i quarts cold water i| quarts boiling water 

5 cups sugar if cups cornstarch 

I teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons lemon juice 

Wash prunes, add cold water, and soak over night. 
Cook in same water in double boiler until soft, remove 
stones, and crack them to obtain meats. Dilute cornstarch 
with enough cold water to pour. Mix prunes, prune juice, 
meats, sugar, cinnamon, and boiling water, and bring to 



192 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

boiling point Add cornstarch and cook forty-five minutes 
in double boiler. Remove cinnamon, add lemon juice, 
chill, and serve with cream. 

Chocolate Cream 

3I quarts scalded milk 9 otmces chocolate 

3l cups sugar 7 eggs 

i^ cups cornstarch 7 teaspoons vanilla 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add milk slowly, and 
heat to scalding point. Mix cornstarch, sugar, and two 
teaspoons salt ; add hot milk mixture to it, return to double 
boiler, and cook forty-five minutes, stirring often. Add 
this mixture to beaten yolks, stirring all the time. Cool 
slightly and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. Add vanilla. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Peach Custard 

Drain syrup from six No. 3 or two No. 10 cans of 
peaches, reserving syrup for fruit sherbet. Cut peaches 
in slices and cover with Soft Custard Sauce. Chill before 
serving. 

Bananas sprinkled with a little lemon juice may be used 
in the same way. 

Tapioca Sherbet 

3 cups minute tapioca Juice of 12 lemons 
6 cups sugar 13 egg whites 

3 quarts boiling water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook tapioca, sugar, salt, and water together in double 
boiler until clear, stirring often. Add juice of lemons 
about six minutes before removing from fire. Put mix- 



COLD DESSERTS I93 

ture into platter or shallow agate pan to cool. As soon 
as it begins to jelly at the edges, stir into it quite briskly 
the well-beaten whites of eggs. Beat until very light. A 
little lemon extract may be added. Serve in sherbet glasses 
with whipped cream piled on top. 



Fig Tapioca 

1} cups minute tapioca 6 cups sugar 

3 quarts hot water 2 lemons (juice and grated 

3 tablespoons butter rind) 

3 cups chopped figs 3 teaspoons vanilla 

3 pints cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook tapioca, hot water, salt, and butter together in 
double boiler until tapioca is clear, stirring often. Mix 
figs, lemon juice and grated rind, sugar, and cold water^ 
and cook until smooth and thick, stirring constantly to 
prevent burning. Combine mixtures, add vanilla, chill, 
and serve with whipped cream. 



Tapioca Cream 

1} cups pearl tapioca 2 cups sugar 

3 quarts scalded milk 12 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt 6 teaspoons vanilla 

Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, 
add to hot milk, and cook until clear. Mix sugar, salt, and 
slightly-beaten egg yolks, and add hot mixture, stirring 
constantly. Return to double boiler and cook until it 
thickens. Remove from fire and fold in the stiffly-beaten 
whites of eggs. Flavor and chill. 



194 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Pineapple Delicious 

2 pounds marshmallows 3 or 4 No. 3 cans of sliced 
I quart heavy cream pineapple 

Cut marshmallows in four pieces each, and pineapple 
in one-half inch cubes. Mix marshmallows, pineapple, 
and a little pineapple juice, and chill thoroughly. Just 
before serving, drain off juice, and fold in cream which 
has been whipped until stiff. 

Lemon Jelly 

f cup grantdated gelatine 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water 3} quarts boiling water 

3 cups lemon juice 

Soak gelatine in cold water twenty minutes, dissolve in 
boiling water, strain through cheesecloth wrung out of 
hot water. Add to sugar and lemon juice, cool, and put 
in refrigerator or other cold place to stiffen. 

Orange Jelly 

} cup granulated gelatine 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water 2J quarts orange juice 

2 J quarts boiling water i cup lemon juice 

Make same as Lemon Jelly. Serve with whipped cream. 

Fruit Jelly 

Make Lemon Jelly, cool, cover bottom of shallow agate 
oblong pans, or any desired molds. When jelly begins to 
stiffen, put in a layer of any desired fruit, then another 
layer of gelatine, and so on until all ingredients are used. 



COLD DESSERTS 195 

Sliced bananas, sections of orange freed from skin and 
membrane, steamed figs and dates cut in pieces, canned 
peaches and pineapple drained and cut in pieces, candied 
cherries, nuts, and other fruits may be used in any at- 
tractive and palatable combination. Serve with whipped 
cream. ^ 

Coffee Jelly 

1 cup granulated gelatine i^ quarts boiling water 
3 cups cold water 3 cups sugar 

3 quarts boiled coffee 

Make same as Lemon Jelly. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Pineapple Jelly 

10 tablespoons granulated 3 No. 3 cans pineapple 

gelatine 5 lemons 

fi cups boiling water 7^ cups sugar 

Soak gelatine in boiling water until dissolved. Drain 
pineaqpple and cut in one-half inch cubes. Add to syrup 
sugar, juice of lemons, and grated rind of three of them. 
Boil two minutes, add strained gelatine, and boil seven 
minutes. Add pineapple cubes, chill, and serve with plain 
cream. 

"" Prunfe Jelly 

2 pounds prunes 15 tablespoons granulated 

3 quarts cold water gelatine 
Boiling water 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water i^ cups lemon juice 

Wash prunes and soak over night in cold water, cook 
in same water until soft. Stone prunes and cut in halves. 
Add to prune water enough boiling water to make three 
quarts. Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in hot liquid. 



196 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

add sugar and lemon juice, then strain. Add prunes and 
chill, stirring twice to prevent prunes from settling. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Snow Pudding 

8^ tablespoons granulated 8^ cups boiling water 

gelatine 4} cups sugar 

2 cups cold water 2 cups lemon juice 

17 egg whites 

Soak gelatine in cold water twenty minutes, dissolve in 
boiling water, strain, and add to sugar and lemon juice. 
Cool, and when it begins to thicken, add beaten whites of 
eggs, and beat until stiff enough to hold its shape. Chill 
and serve with Soft Custard Sauce. 

Apricot Charlotte 

6 tablespoons granulated 2 cups cold water 

gelatine 6 cups strained apricots 

6 cups sugar 2 cups boiling water 

18 egg whites Juice 3 lemons 

Soak two pounds dried apricots over night in cold water 
to cover, and cook in same water until soft, then rub 
through puree strainer. There should be one and one-half 
quarts when strained. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water, sugar, 
and lemon juice. Strain and add apricot juice and pulp. 
When jelly begins to thicken, beat until light, add beaten 
whites, and beat until stiff enough to keep its shape. Chill 
and serve with whipped cream. Canned apricots may be 
used instead of dried ones. 

Oranges, peaches, strawberries, and other fruits may 
be used in place of apricots. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

Directions for Freezing 

Use finely crushed ice. A wooden mallet and burlap bag 
are useful for crushing ice. 

Use coarse rock salt in the proportion of three parts ice 
to one of salt. 

Place the can of the freezer in position in the pail ; put 
in the dasher; pour in the mixture to be frozen; cover, 
and adjust the handle so that it turns freely. Surround 
the can with alternate layers of ice and salt in the propor- 
tions given, beginning with ice. Pack solidly to the top 
of can. 

The freezer can should never be more than three-fourths 
full. 

In freezing ice cream, turn the crank slowly and steadily 
until frozen to a mush, then more rapidly. Add more ice 
and salt as needed. Never draw off water until mixture 
is frozen, unless there is possibility of its getting into can. 

When mixture is frozen, draw off water, remove dasher, 
and pack cream solidly. Put cork in opening, put on cover, 
repack freezer, using four parts ice to one of salt, cover 
with newspapers, then with heavy cloth. Let stand an 
hour or more to ripen. 

Lemon Ice 
4^ quarts water 2j quarts sugar 

3f cups lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water together twenty minutes; add 
lemon juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 

197 



198 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Orange Ice 

3i quarts water 7 cups orange juice 

7 cups sugar | cup lemon juice 

Grated rind of 6 oranges 

Make syrup as for Lemon Ice ; add fruit juice and grated 
rind, C00I9 strain, and freeze. 

Strawberry Ice 

3i quarts water 7 cups strawberry juice 

5^ cups sugar 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Make syrup as for Lemon Ice ; cool, add berries which 
have been mashed and strained through double cheese* 
cloth, and lemon juice ; freeze. 

Raspberry Ice may be made in the same way. 

Mint Sherbet 

2i quarts sugar 2 cups chopped mint 

5 quarts boiling water 3i cups lemon juice 

Pick over, wash, and chop two large bunches mint. 
Bring sugar and water to boiling point and pour over 
mint. Let stand an hour or two, add lemon juice, strain, 
color delicately with leaf green, and freeze. 

Cranberry Frapp6 

4i quarts cranberries 2^ quarts sugar 

3 quarts water i^ cups lemon juice 

Cook berries and water ten minutes, put through puree 
strainer, add sugar and lemon juice. Freeze to mush, 
using equal parts ice and salt. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 199 

Grape Frapp6 

7 cups sugar if cups lemon juice 
3i quarts water 7 cups grape juice 

Boil sugar and water five minutes, add other ingredi- 
ents, and freeze to mush. 

Alaskan Combination 

2 quarts water i^ cups lemon juice 

1 quart orange juice 8 large bananas 

2 quarts canned peaches 2 quarts sugar 

Fresh peaches may be used in place of canned ones. 
Mash peaches and bananas through strainer, add lemon 
and orange juice, sugar, and water. Freeze. 

Milk Sherbet 

2 cups lemon juice 2 quarts sugar 

4i quarts milk 

Strain lemon juice, add sugar, and mix thoroughly. 
Add milk slowly, stirring constantly. Turn at once into 
packed freezer. Turn slowly at first, but more rapidly 
when it begins to stiffen. Let stand two hours to ripen. 

Fruit Sherbet 

4 quarts rich milk 4 lemons 

2 quarts sugar i pint finely-shredded 

8 oranges pineapple 

Scald niilk, chill ; add fruit juice, pineapple, and sugar. 
Freeze and let ripen two hours. 



20O KEaPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Apricot Sherbet 

2^ quarts strained i} quarts or more sugar 

apricots 2} quarts water or 

6 tablespoons lemon juice 

juice 4 egg whites 

Dried apricots which have been soaked, and stewed 
until soft, may be used. Boil sugar and water together 
five minutes, add strained apricots and lemon juice, chill. 
When half frozen, add stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, to 
which four tablespoons powdered sugar have been added. 
Finish freezing and let stand an hour or so to ripen. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

2i quarts milk f teaspoon salt 

3 cups sugar 6 eggs 

f cup flour 3 tablespoons vanilla 

I quart heavy cream 

Scald milk; mix sugar, salt, and flour together, add 
milk gradually, and return to double boiler. Cook twenty 
minutes, stirring constantly until smooth. Add to slightly- 
beaten eggs, cook three minutes, and cool. Add flavoring 
and cream, and freeze. 



Ginger Ice Cream 

Make Vanilla Ice Cream, using one-half the vanilla, 
one-half cup ginger syrup, and one and one-half cups 
preserved ginger cut in small pieces. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 201 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Melt six ounces unsweetened chocolate over hot water. 
Use Vanilla Ice Cream recipe, adding hot custard to 
melted chocolate, then cool and proceed as above. 



Caramel Ice Cream 

3i quarts milk f teaspoon salt 

I quart sugar 4 eggs 

f cup flour 2 tablespoons vanilla 

I quart heavy cream 

Prepare same as Vanilla Ice Cream, using one-half the 
sugar in the custard. Caramelize the remaining sugar 
and add to hot custard. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 

General Directions 

Prepare pans first. They may be greased, then floured, 
shaking out all the loose flour ; or bottom of pans lined 
with paper, then paper and sides of pans greased. 

Always use pastry flour if possible, as it makes a more 
tender cake. If bread flour must be used, allow two table- 
spoons less for each cup, or two ounces less for each pound 
of flour called for in recipe. 

Sift flour before measuring, then mix and sift together, 
two or more times, the flour and all dry ingredients except 
sugar. 

If butter is very hard, warm bowl or mixing pan by 
rinsing with boiling water. Wipe dry, put in butter or 
other shortening, and stir until creamy. In many of the 
following recipes, vegetole, crisco, cotosuet, or other 
shortening is used wholly or partly in place of butter, but 
all butter may be used if preferred. 

Add sugar gradually to creamed butter, then add beaten 
yolks. Measure milk into bowl in which yolks were beaten, 
then add alternately with flour to the butter mixture. Beat 
well, then add fruit or nuts if required, and fold in stiiHy- 
beaten whites of eggs and flavoring. 

Fruit should be washed, dried, chopped, and mixed 
with a little of the required amount of flour before adding 
to mixture^ ^ 

If coal or wood is used as fuel, the fire should be 
attended to before mixing cake. If gas is used, the oven 

202 



CAKE AND COOKIES 203 

should not be lighted until the cake is partly prepared, or 
it will be too hot. The time required depends wholly on 
size and hiake of oven. 

Tests: A piece of white paper indicates that the oven is 
of the right temperature (300** F.) for butter loaf cakes 
if it turns golden brown in five minutes; for layer cake 
if it turns in four minutes; and for angel and sponge 
cake if it turns in seven minutes. (250** F. increasing to 
280** F.) 

Cake may be looked at often provided there is no jar 
when the door is opened and shut. It should not be moved 
until firm enough to prevent falling. Cake is done when 
it shrinks from the sides of pan. Let it remain in pans 
for a few minutes after taking from oven. 

Angel and sponge cakes should be broken, not cut. With 
a sharp knife cut through the crust, then break apart. 

Plain Cake 
I cup butter 3 cups milk 

i cup other shortening 2^ quarts flour 
4^ cups sugar 4 tablespoons baking 

12 eggs powder 

3 teaspoons vanilla 

Mix according to general directions. Bake in square 
or oblong shallow pans, in moderate oven, about forty- 
five minutes; in layer cake pans about fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; or in muffin pans about thirty minutes. Spread 
with any desired frosting. 

Cream Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans. Put Cream Filling between layers and powdered 
sugar on top. 



204 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Chocolate Cream Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans, and spread Chocolate Cream Filling between layers 
and on top. 

Washington Pie 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans, spread jam or jelly between layers, and sprinkle 
powdered sugar over top. 

White Cake 

i^ cups butter or butter 4 tablespoons baking 

and other shortening powder 

6 cups sugar i tablespoon vanilla 

3 cups milk 12 egg whites 

2i quarts flour 

Mix according to general directions. Bake in shallow 
square or oblong pans, or in layer cake pans. Spread with 
any desired frosting. 

Spanish Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake, using five teaspoons cinna- 
mon in place of vanilla. Spread with White Mountain 
Cream in which a stick of cinnamon was boiled with the 
sugar and water ; or with Caramel Frosting. 

Walnut Mocha Cake 

Follow recipe for White Cake, using boiled coffee in 
place of milk, and adding two or more cups coarsely- 
. chopped walnut meats. Bake in shallow pans. Spread 
with Mocha or Caramel Frosting. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 205 

White Nut Cake 

Add three cups walnut or hickory nut meats, chopped 
or cut in pieces, to White Cake mixture. Bake in shallow 
pans. 

Sponge Cake 
10 eggs 3 teaspoons vanilla or 

5 cups sugar 2^ teaspoons lemon extract 

if cups boiling water 5 teaspoons baking 
i teaspoon salt powder 

5 cups flour 

Sift sugar two or three times ; also flour. Beat yolks 
well, add sugar, then boiling water, then flour which has 
been sifted with salt and baking powder. Beat well, and 
then fold in whites which have been beaten until stiff 
and dry. . Bake about forty minutes in slow oven. 

Cream Puffs 
2 cup^ butter 16 eggs 

I quart boiling water i quart flour 

Put butter and water in saucepan over fire. When butter 
is melted, put flour in all at once, beating vigorously until 
mixture is thoroughly blended and leaves sides of pan. 
Remove from fire, partly cool, add eggs one at a time, 
beating each for some time before adding next. Beat until 
batter is no longer stringy, drop by the spoonful on 
buttered sheets, one and one-half inches apart. Shape 
with handle of spoon as nearly circular as possible, and 
slightly heaped in center. Bake thirty minutes in moderate 
oven. With a sharp knife make a slit in each, and fill with 
Cream or Chocolate Cream Filling, or with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored. 



206 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 





Graham Cake 


3 


cups sugar 


I tablespoon cinnamon 


li 


cups molasses 


I teaspoon allspice or 


3 


cups milk 


nutmeg 


4i 


cups sifted Graham 


I teaspoon lemon extract 




flour 


I teaspoon vanilla 


3 


cups flour 


3 cups raisins 


i| teaspoons soda 


3 cups currants 


I 


teaspoon cloves 


Citron and nuts if desired 



Sift dry ingredients together. Mix the fruit with some 
of the flour and add after thoroughly mixing the other 
ingredients. Bake in loaves in moderate oven. Keep 
several days before using. 

Bread Cake 

3 pounds light bread dough 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup butter 5 cups sugar 

i cup other shortening i teaspoon nutmeg 

6 eggs I teaspoon cloves 

2 cups chopped raisins i teaspoon cinnamon 

Dissolve soda in water. Put all ingredients together in 
mixing pan, mix very thoroughly, using knife or hands. 
Put into long, narrow cake pans, let rise one hour, and 
bake in moderate oven one hour, or until done. 

Gingerbread 

4 cups molasses 4 teaspoons soda 

2 cups boiling water 4 teaspoons ginger 

2i quarts flour 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

I cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons salt 

Add water to molasses. Mix and sift dry ingredients, 
combine mixtures, add shortening, and beat vigorously. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 207 

Bake in well-greased shallow pans in moderate oven forty 
minutes, or until done. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

I quart molasses 2^ tablespoons soda 

I quart sour milk 2. tablespoons ginger 

2i quarts flour 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix soda with sour milk and add to molasses. Sift 
together remaining dry ingredients, combine mixtures, 
add shortening, and beat vigorously. Bake in shallow pans 
in moderate oven forty minutes, or until done. 

Molasses Cake 

3 cups molasses 3 teaspoons salt 

3 cups sugar ^ i teaspoon cloves 

2 cups shortening 6 eggs 

3 tablespoons ginger 3 cups boiling water 
2 tablespoons cinnamon 2^ quarts flour 

2 tablespoons soda 

Soften shortening with boiling water, add molasses and 
sugar. Mix and sift dry ingpredients and add to mixture. 
Stir in beaten eggs and beat vigorously until smooth. Bake 
in shallow pans in moderate oven forty minutes, or until 
done. 

Chocolate Cake I 

Add six ounces melted chocolate, or one and one-half 
cups cocoa, to creamed butter and sugar of Plain Cake. 
Bake in shallow pans in moderate oven, and spread with 
White Mountain Cream or Plain Frosting. 



208 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Chocolate Cake II 

I cup butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 cup other shortenmg 2 teaspoons soda 

6 cups sugar 4 teaspoons cream tartar 

2 quarts flour 12 eggs 

2 cups milk i cup boiling water 

12 to 16 ounces chocolate 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add one cup of sugar, 
and boiling water gradually. Mix and sift dry ingredi- 
ents. Cream butter and remaining sugar, add beaten yolks, 
hot chocolate mixture and vanilla, and flour and milk 
alternately. Fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Pour 
into shallow oblong pans to depth of one inch. Spread 
White Mountain Cream on top. 

Spice Cake 

2 cups shortening 2| quarts flour 

4 cups sugar 2 cups currants 
8 eggs 2 cups raisins 

1 cup sour milk 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 teaspoons soda 2 teaspoons cloves 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons allspice 

Mix according to general directions, adding molasses 
with milk. Bake in shallow oblong pans, or in muffin pans, 
in moderate oven. 

Date Patty Cakes 

I J cups shortening i teaspoon nutmeg 

8 eggs 5 tablespoons baking 

2 cups milk powder 

li quarts flour 2 pounds dates stoned 

5 cups brov.-n sugar and cut in pieces 

3 teaspoons cinnamon 



CAKE AND CCK)KIES 20K) 

When butter and sugar are partly mixed, add eggs and 
beat until very light. Add milk, flour which has been 
sifted with other ingredients, and dates. Beat hard two 
minutes. Fill muffin pans half full and bake thirty minutes, 
or until done, in moderate oven. 

Plain Drop Cakes 

2 cups sugar 6 scant cups flour 

1 cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons soda 

2 eggs I teaspoon cream of tartar 
2 cups sour milk 2 teaspoons vanilla or 

\ teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons mace 

Mix, and sift dry ingredients. Mix sugar and melted 
shortening, add beaten eggs, and flour and milk alter- 
nately. Drop by the teaspoonful on greased tins, and 
place raisin on top of each. 

Sugar Cookies 

5 cups flour 5 beaten eggs 

2| cups sugar 2\ teaspoons cream tartar 

i^ cups butter i\ teaspoons soda 

Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs, then flour 
mixed and sifted with soda and cream of tartar. Roll 
quite thin, cut in small rounds, and bake in moderate oven. 

Jelly Jumbles 

2| cups butter 2| teaspoons soda 

5 cups sugar if cups sour milk 

5 eggs i^ teaspoons salt 

Cream butter and sugar together, add well-beaten eggs, 
salt, sour milk in which soda has been dissolved, and flour 



210 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to make as soft a dough as can be handled. Chill, roll 
one-fourth inch thick, cut in rounds three inches in 
diameter. Put a teaspoonful jam or jelly on one-half the 
rounds, and cut three small holes in center of remaining 
pieces. Put pieces together, press the edges slightly, and 
bake in moderate oven. 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 

i cup vegetole or crisco 2 cups flour 

f cup butter 2 teaspoons soda 

2 cups brown sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

4 eggs i teaspoon cinnamon 

i cup milk i teaspoon nutmeg 

4 cups rolled oats J teaspoon cloves 

2 cups raisins 2 cups chopped nuts 

Sift dry ingredients together. Cream butter, vegetole, 
and sugar together, add well-beaten eggs, milk, flour, fruit, 
and rolled oats. Drop by the teaspoonful, about two inches 
apart, on well-greased pans. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

1} cups sugar 3^ teaspoons soda 

2I cups molasses 2^ teaspoons salt 

2^ cups vegetole, crisco, 4 teaspoons ginger 

or chicken fat 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

l^ cups sour milk Flour 

Heat molasses, melt shortening in it, and add sugar. 
Cool, add sour milk, and one quart flour which has been 
sifted with other dry ingredients, then flour to roll as soft 
as can be handled. If chilled for an hour or so, dough 
is more easily handled. Roll about one-third inch thick ; 
bake in moderate oven. The cookies are crisp when fresh. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 211 

Boston Cookies 

i-l cups butter 5 cups flour 

2^ cups sugar $ teaspoon salt 

4 . eggs i^ teaspoons cinnamon 

1 1 teaspoons soda i cup seeded and chopped 
3 tablespoons hot water raisins 

i^ cups walnut meats 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and well-beaten eggs. 
Add soda dissolved in hot water, flour mixed and sifted 
with salt and cinnamon, chopped nuts and raisins. Drop 
by spoonfuls one inch apart on greased sheets or dripping 
pans, and bake in moderate oven. 

Sponge Drops 

12 egg whites i^ cups flour 
li cups powdered sugar | teaspoon salt 

8 egg yolks i teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff and dry, add sugar grad- 
ually, and continue beating. Add flavoring, and yolks of 
eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored. ' Cut and fold 
in flour mixed with salt. Drop from tip of spoon on un- 
buttered paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and bake 
eight minutes in moderate oven. This recipe makes one 
hundred. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 

Cream Filling 
2^ cups sugar 6 eggs 

1 cup flour i^ quarts milk 

f teaspoon salt i teaspoon vanilla 

Mix dry ingredients, add eggs slightly beaten, and 
gradually the scalded milk. Cook fifteen minutes in double 
boiler, stirring constantly until thickened, then occasion- 
ally. Cool and flavor. 

Chocolate Cream Filling 

Melt four ounces chocolate over hot water. Add to 
Cream Filling, using one-half cup more sugar. 

Plain Frosting 

8 cups confectioners' or f cup or more boiling water 
powdered sugar Flavoring 

Add boiling water gradually to sifted sugar, until of 
right consistency to spread, then add flavoring. 

Orange Frosting 

2 yellow oranges Confectioners' or powdered sugar 

Grate rind from oranges, add to it the juice, of which 
there should be about one cup. Let stand for an hour or 
more, strain, and add sifted sugar to make of consistency 
to spread. The yolk of an egg or orange coloring may be 
added to supply lack of color. 

212 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 213 

White Frosting 

8 cups powdered sugar 3 tablespoons lemon 

S egg whites juice 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and lemon juice, and beat 
five minutes, or until mixture begins to thicken. One 
tablespoon vanilla and two tablespoons water may be used 
in place of lemon juice. 

Mocha Frosting 

2 cups butter i cup strong boiled or 

8 cups confectioners' sugar filtered coffee 

Wash butter, work until creamy, add sugar gradually, 
beating constantly. As mixture thickens, add coffee, a 
few drops at a time, keeping mixture always of a creamy 
consistency, and using more coffee if needed. 

Cocoa Frosting 

Mix three- fourths cup cocoa and one cup hot milk until 
smooth, bring to boiling point. Follow directions for 
Mocha Frosting, substituting cocoa mixture for coffee, 
and using enough to make frosting of right consistency 
to spread. 

White Mountain Cream 

8 cups granulated sugar 8 egg whites 

2i cups hot water 2 tablespoons vanilla 

Put sugar and water in saucepan, stir until dissolved, 
boil without stirring to 238° F., or soft ball stage. Pour 
syrup gradually on stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, beating 
constantly, and continue beating until frosting is of right 



214 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY J 

consistency to spread ; add flavoring and spread on cake 
at once. If not beaten long enough, frosting will run; 
if beaten too long, it will be rough. 

Caramel Frosting 

6 cups brown sugar ^ cup butter 

2 cups thin cream 4 teaspoons vanilla 

Use light brown sugar, or there will be danger of 
curdling. Boil first three ingpredients together until waxy 
when dropped in cold water. Add vanilla, set saucepan 
in pan of cold water until frosting is of a consistency to 
spread, beating or not as desired. If frosting is beaten, 
it will be creamy in appearance ; if not beaten, it will be 
transparent. 

Chocolate Frosting 

6 cup$ sugar 6 squares Baker's chocolate 

3 cups hot water 6 egg yolks beaten thick 
6 teaspoons vanilla and lemon-colored 

Cook sugar, chocolate, and water to soft ball stage, 
then add gradually to beaten yolks, beating constantly. 
Add vanilla and beat until stiff enough to spread. 



MENUS 

The following menus are taken from the dietary of the 
School of Domestic Science, and are given as suggestive 
of what may be done in the way of variety and simplicity 
at a moderate cost. 

It is our aim to gfive a simple dietary of varied, nutri- 
tious, and appetizing meals, at a moderate rather than at the 
lowest cost ; and this is made possible by wholesale buying 
in connection with the Young Women's Christian Asso- 
ciation, and by serving on the home table the products of 
the laboratory-practice cookery. Monotony is prevented 
by serving a variety of dishes during a series of days 
rather than at one meal, and by usually avoiding the repe- 
titk)n of the same dish on the same day of the week. 

The students carry on the work of the home in addition 
to laboratory and classroom requirements, as a part of their 
training, and this often necessitates simplicity of service 
as well as of meals. Hence, soup is never served for 
dinner, coffee seldom, and salad never served as a separate 
course. If fruit is served at breakfast, the cereal is usually 
omitted. 

Butter is served at all meals. One quart of heavy cream 
a day is used, sometimes for breakfast with the cereal, at 
other times for dinner. 



"5 



AUTUMN MONTHS 
Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Concord Qrapee 
Boston Baked Beans Apple Catsup 

^ Toast Boston Brown Bread 

Milk Cocoa Coffee 

DINNER 

Hot Boiled Ham Mustard Pickle BAashed Turnip 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes Oatmeal and White Bread 

Chocolate Cream 

LUNCHEON 

Sliced Peaches Bread Cheese Crackers 

Cocoa Tea . Milk 

Boston Cookies 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Cracked Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Baked Apples with Bacon Com Bread 

LUNCHEON 

Creamed Eggs (sliced) Cold Sliced Ham 

Bread Spice Cake 

Cocoa Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Beefetsak Roll Broiled Potatoes Bechamel Carrots 

Oatmoal and White Broad 
Graham Pudding Sterling Sauce 

216 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 217 

Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Rolled Oats Cream and Sugar 

Cream of Salt Pork Baked Potatoes Bran Cakes 

Cocoa Milk Cofifee 

LUNCHEON 
Com Soup Crackers 

Salmon Salad II Bread 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 

DINNER 

Broiled Beefeteak Baked Potatoes Sliced Tomatoes 

Graham and White Bread 
Scalloped Apples Hard Sauce 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Cream of Wheat Cream and Sugar 

Toast Meat Cakes Chili Sauce German Coffee Bread 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Scalloped Cheese Grape Jelly Graham and White Bread 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

Cream Cake 

^NNER 

Roast Leg of Lamb Spanish SauCe Peas Austrian Potatoes 

Bread 
Norwegian Prune Pudding with Cream 



2l8 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Shndded WhMt Malt BrMik£ut Food BiUlk and Sugar 

Sausage with Glazed Apples Toast Cereal Muffins 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 



LUNCHEON 



Bean Stew 



Cucumber Pickles 
Cocoa Tea 

Baked Apple Pudding 



Potato Rolls 
Milk 
Nutmeg Sauce 



DINNER 



Braised Beef 



Brown Oravy 
Baked Winter Squash 
Chocolate Bread Pudding 



Mashed Potatoee 
Bread 
Hard Sauce 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Cream Omelet 

Coffee 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Scotch Oatmeal Cream and Sugar 

Toast Cinnamon Rolls 

Milk Cocoa 



Curried Vegetables 
Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Date Patty Cakes 
Tea 



Nut and White Bread 



um^ 



DINNER 

Boiled Salmon Egg Sauce Mock Potato Puff 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad French Dressing Bread 

Caramel Custard with Caramel Sauce 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 219 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Hominy Cream and Sugar 

Hashed Brown Potatoes Toast Batter Bread 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Meat Pie Tomato Relish 

Baked Pears Plain Cake 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Veal Roast Brown Gravy Barberry Jelly 

Steamed Potatoes Spinach Bread 

Baked Apples with Cream 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Apples, Pears and Grapes 

Boston Baked Beans Toast Brown Bread Grape Catsup 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Chicken with Stuffing and Gravy Spiced Apple Jelly 

Mashed Potatoes Creamed Celery Bread 

Apricot Charlotte with Whipped Cream 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken Sandwiches Stewed Crab Apples 

White Cake with Chocolate Frosting 



220 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shndded Wheat Biscuit with Sliced Bananas Milk and Sugar 

R^chaufliS of Veal on Toast Toast Pop-overs 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Lyonnaise Tripe Potato Cakes 

Cocoanut Cake 
Cocoa imilk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Stew with Dumplings Steamed Potatoes Buttered Onions 

Oatmeal and White Bread 
Peach Shortcake 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Pettijohn Cream and Sugar 

Broiled Ham Mustard Sauce Toast Baking Powder Biscuit 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Italian Macaroni Oatmeal and White Bread 

Cottage Pudding with Orape Sauce 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Roast Mushroom Sauce Franconia Potatoes 

Cabbage Salad with Boiled Dressing Bread 

Bellevue Pudding Creamy Sauce 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 221 





Wednesday 






BREAKFAST 




Shredded Wheat 


Rolled Oats 


Cream and Sugar 


Bacon 


Toast 


Com Cakes 


Coflee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 



Cold Roast Beef Chili Sauce Creamed Potatoes 

White and Entire Wheat Bread 

Dutch Apple Cake Vanilla Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Corned Beef with Vegetables Mustard Sauce Steamed Potatoes 

Bread 
Spiced Pudding with Whipped Cream 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Steamed Rice Bfiilk and Sugar 

Broiled Frankfurters with Sliced Tomatoes 

Toast Rye Muffins 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Corned Beef Hash Sliced Cucumbers Brown and White Bread 

Damson Preserves Plain Cake 

DINNER 

tAmb Fricassee with Triangles of Toast Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Beets Bread 

Molasses Cake with Whipped Cream 



222 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Ralston Breakfast Food Milk and Sugar 

Creamed Dried Beef Toast Buns 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Potato Chowder Crackers Bread 

Sponge Cake Apple Sauce 

Cocoa Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Broiled Bluefish Delmonico Potatoes Tomato Salad Bread 

Washington Pie 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Cream of Wheat Cream and Sugar 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato Toast Graham Mufiins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Creamed Fish Baked Potatoes Bread 

Plain Cookies Pear Marmalade 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Tongue Piquante Sauce Potato Puff Buttered Cauliflower 

Rye and White Bread 
Apple Pie Cheese 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 223 



WINTER MONTHS 
Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Apples and Bananas 
Boston Baked Beans Cider Apple Sauce Toast 

Boston Brown Bread 
Coifee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Turkey Mashed Potato Celery Cranberry Sauce Bread 

Nut Pudding Sunshine Sauce 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Turkey Bread and Butter Sandwiches Grape Butter 

Plain Cake with Caramel Frosting 

Milk Tea 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Puffed Rice Shredded Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Poached Eggs with Minced Tongue Drop Biscuit 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese Cream Toast with Bacon Entire Wheat Bread 

Bread Cake 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Loaf Brown Sauce Turnips New York Style 

Scalloped Potatoes Bread 

Caramel Bread Pudding 



224 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Wheat Germ Milk and Sugar 

Codfish Balls Toast Com Bread 

CoffiM Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

ft 

Meat Croquettes with Brown Sauce Peas Bread 

Gingerbread 
Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Pork Baked Potatoes Spiced Apples 

Bread 
Plane Whip with Soft Custard Sauce 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Wheatena with Dates Cream and Sugar 

Tripe in Batter Toast Raised Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Lima Bean Soup Crackers Bread 

Doughnuts Coffee 

DINNER 

Stuffod Shoulder of Lamb Maltre d'Hdtel Potatoes Baked Bananas 

Bread 
Ginger Ice Cream WafiBrs 



i 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 22$ 

Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Old Grist MUl Milk and Sugar 

Scrapple Toast Entire Wheat Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Mexican Chili Crackers Cucumber Pickles Bread 

Baked Blackberry Pudding 

DINNER 

Braised Liver Lyonnaise String Beans Hongroise Potatoes 

Oatmeal and White Bread 
Pumpkin Pie 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Force Cream and Sugar 

Spanish Omelet Toast Blueberry Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

BAashed Potato Baked Sausage Rye Bread 

Molasses Cookies Hot Apple Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Haddock with Mattre dUdtel Butter Macaroni and Cheese 
Apple and Celery Salad with Cream Dressing Bread 

Lemon Pie 



226 RECIPESiAND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat with Canned Peaches and Cream 

Prinled Dried Beef Toast Cereal Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Pressed Corned Beef Lyonnaise Potatoes Mustard Bread 

Rye Drop Cakes Caramel Syrup 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Baked Ham Steamed Sweet Potatoes Creamed White Turnips 
Graham and White Bread 

Peach Shortcake with Cream 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Boston Baked Beans Catsup Boston Brown Bread 

Toast Doughnuts 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Chicken k la Jardiniere Boiled Rice Cranberry Jelly 

Com Oysters Bread 

Pineapple Delicious After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster Stew Crackers 

Graham Cake Canned Peaches 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 



227 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Stewed Prunes Cream 

Pried Oatmeal Mush with Bacon German Coffee Bread 

Coffee Milk « Cocoa 



Com Chowder 



Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Crackers 
Blueberry Shortcake 
Milk 



Bread 



Tea 



DINNER 

Beef Roast Brown Gravy Franconia Potatoes 

Bread 
Cieamed Carrots and Turnips 
Orange Marmalade Padding 



Apple Chutney 



Shredded Wheat 
Creamed Ham and Eggs 
Coffee 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Farina 

Toast 

Milk 



Cream and Sugar 

Graham Gems 
Cocoa 



Cold Roast Beef 



Tea 



LUNCHEON 

Creamed Rice or Carrots and Turnips 
Jelly Jumbles 

Milk Cocoa 



Bread 



DINNER 



Spanish Stew Riced Potato 

Chocolate Cream Cake 



Sauted Parsnips 
After-Dinner Coffee 



Bread 



228 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Force with Stewed Figs and Cream 

Milk Toast Orange Marmalade Bran Cakes 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters and Celery on Toast Jelly Graham and White Bread 

Cranberry Tarts 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Beefeteak Fried Onions Spanish Potatoes Bread 

Alaskan Combination 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Toasted Com Flakes Cream and Sugar 

Creamed Finnan Haddie Toast Plain Maffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Liver Loaf Tomato Sauce White and Oatmeal Bread 

Apple Ginger Baronet Biscuit 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Lamb Chops Potato Puff Lima Beans with Cream Jelly 

Bread 
Stewed Figs with Cream 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 229 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Corn Meal Mush Milk and Sugar 

Minced Meat on Toaat Chili Sauce Rocks 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Creole Spaghetti Bread 

Canned Pears Spanish Cake 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Boiled Cod Drawn Butter Sauce . Spanish Rice Peas 

Bread 
Mince Pie 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Malt Breakfast Food Cream and Sugar 

Apples Baked with Sausage Toast Pop-overs 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Fish Chowder Crackers Bread 

Molasses Cake 
Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Leg of Lamh Creamed Potatoes Mint Sherbet 

Peach Custard 



230 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 

Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Grapefiniit 
PdftclMd Eggs with CrMun Toast Paiker Hoase Rolls 

Cothe NOXk 

DINNER 

Mock Birds Battered Asparagus Mock Potato Puif Bread 
Pmne Jelly Whipped Cream After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese and Date Salad Crackers Bread 

Chocolate Cake Grape Preserve 

Tea Milk 






Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Toasted Corn Flakes with Sliced Bananas and Milk 
Com Oysters with Bacon Toast Com Cakes 

Coflee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Vegeteble Soop Crackers Bread . 

Blueberry Shortcake 

DINNER 

Braised Beef with Vegetebles as Garnish Spinach Steamed Potatoes 

Coffee Jelly with Cream and Sugar 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 23I 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Cream of Wheat Shredded Wheat BAflk and Sugar 

Meat SoafiB6 Stewed Rhubarb Toast 

Colfoe Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Potato Salad Peanut Sandwiches 

Cocoanut Cake 
Tea Milk Cocoa (if a cold day) 

DINNER 

Barbecued Ham Hongroise Potatoes Buttered Scullions on Toast 
Vanilla Ice Cream with Chocolate Sauce 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Dates imilk and Sugar 

Boiled Eggs Toast Rolls 

Coffee imilk 

LUNCHEON 

Cream of Tomato Toast Bread 

Baking Powder Biscuit with Maple Syrup 

Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Broiled Steak French Fried Potatoes Dandelion Greens Bread 

Strawberry Shortcake 



232 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Rhubarb and Pigs 

Lamb Chops Toast Plain Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 
Cold Sliced Ham Creamed Asparagfas 

Tea Milk 

Marshmallow Gingerbread 

DINNER 

Roast Veal Mashed Potatoes Pineapple and Cheese Salad Bread 
Scalloped Rhubarb Hard Sauce 



Friday 



BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat with Canned Peaches and Cream 
Kippered Herring Toast Raised Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Egg and Peas Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing Ham Sandwiches 

Cottage Pudding Strawberry Sauce 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Broiled Mackerel Creamed Rice Cucumber Salad Bread 

Baked Custard 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 233 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Cream of Wheat Molded with Dates Cream and Sugar 

Baked Eggs Toast Graham Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Mexican RagoAt Potato Cakes Bread 

Rusks Pear Marmalade Coffee 

DINNER 

Corned Beef Maltre dlldtel Cabbage Delmonico Potatoes Bread 

Fruit Sherbet Wafers 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Strawberries with Powdered Sugar 
Boston Baked Beans Chili Sauce Boston Brown Bread with Raisins 

Coffee Toast Milk 

DINNER 

Chicken Ragoftt Boiled Rice Buttered Asparagus on Toast 

Pineapple Jelly After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Canned Red Cherry and Cheese Salad with French Dressing 
Crackers Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Mocha Nut Cake 
Cocoa Tea Milk 



234 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Bilalt Breakfiut Pood Milk and Sugar 

Broiled Ham Plain Toast German Toast with Maple Syrup 

Coflee Milk • 

LUNCHEON 

Creamed Corned Beef Radishes 

Raspberries Plain Cookies 

Tea BAilk 

DINNER 

Beef Roast with Yorkshire Podding Boiled Potatoes Spinach 

Snowballs with Cherry Sance 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Pettijohn's Break&st Food Cream and Sugar 

Creamed Chicken on Toast Jelly Toast Rolls 

Coffee BAilk 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Roast Beef Horseradish Sauce Boiled New Potatoes 

Iced Tea Cake with Cocoa Frosting Milk 

DINNER 

Beef Tongue with Tomato Sauce Buttered Potatoes New Carrots 

Raspberry Shortcake 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 235 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Puffed Rice Cream and Sugar 

Boiled Bgg8 I Toast Cereal Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Com Soap Crackers Bread 

Banana Salad with Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Sandwiches Coffee 

DINNER 

Staffed Shoulder of Lamb Mint Sauce Boiled New Potatoes 

New Peas 
Vanilla Ice Cream with Maple Sauce 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupe 

Cracked Wheat Milk and Sugar 

BaooQ Toast Cinnamon Rolls Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Veal or Meat Loaf New Potatoes Creamed Bread 

Raspberries and Cream 
Iced Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Steak New Potatoes Boiled and Sauted in Pork Pat 

Beet Greens with Garnish of New Beets 

Blueberry Pie 



A 



236 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Gooseberries 

CreiLin of Cora on ToASt with Bacon Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Baked Mince with Eggs Rye Bread 

Spice Cake 
Iced Tea BAilk 

DINNER 

Broiled Cod or Haddock Samp with Cheese 

Cucumber and Radish Salad 

Caramel Custard with Caramel Sauce 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Blueberries Cream and Sugar 

Poached Eggs with Bacon Toast 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Meat Croquettes with Cream Sauce and Peas Bread 

Sponge Cake Berries or Strawberry Jam 

Iced Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Veal Roast Buttered New Potatoes Spinach with Hard-cooked Eggs 

Cantaloupe or Watermelon 



Bibliography 



The Boston Cooldng School 
Cook Book 

A New Book of Cookery 

What to Have for Dixiner 

Home Science Cook Book 

The Boston Cook Book 

Institution Recipes 

Lowney's Cook Book 

The Complete Cook Book 

The New Hostess of Today 

The Century Cook Book 

Practical Cooking and Serving 

New Cook Book 

The Pireless Cook Book 



Fannie Merritt Parmer 

Fannie Merritt Parmer 

Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Maiy J. Lincoln and Anna Barrows 

Mary J. Lincoln 

Emma Smedley 

Bflaria Willett Howard 

Marion Harland 

Linda Hull Lamed 

Mary Ronald 

Janet McKenzie Hill 

Sarah T. Rorer 

BAargaret J. Mitchell 



237 



INDEX 



Alaskan Combination, 199 
Apple Catsup, 9 

Charlotte, 1S2 

Compote, 2 

Dumplings, 177 

Fritters, 33 

Marmalade, 8 

Sauce I, X 

Sauce II, X 
Cider, a 
Green, 2 

Tapioca, 17a 
Apples, Baked, x 

Fried, 4 

Glazed, 3 

Scalloped, i8a 

Spiced, 3 
Apricot Charlotte, 196 

Sherbet, aoo 
Apricots, Stewed, 4 
Asparagus, Boiled, 134 

Creamed, 135 

Bacon, 103 
Baked Mince, zao 
Baking Powder, to make, 22 
Bananas, Baked, 4 

Sliced, 5 
Bean Stew, 69 
Beans, Boston Baked, 135 
Spanish, 137 
Stewed Lima, 136 
with Cream, 136 
with Tomato, 136 
String, Buttered, 137 
Canned, 137 
i la Lyonnaise, 138 



Beef, Braised, 86 

Corned, 87 

Creamed Corned, 113 

Creamed Dried, 114 

Frizzled Dried, 114 

Hash, 120 

Loaf, 90 

i la Paysanne, 9X 

Pressed, 87 

Roast, 85 

SoufB6, 118 

Stew, 89 

Steak, Broiled, 83 
with Onions, 83 
Roll, 84 
Beets, Boiled, 138 

Savory, 138 
Beverages, 49 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 29 

Drop, 29 

Entire Wheat, 30 

Squash, 18 
Blanc Mange, Chocolate, 190 

Plain, 190 
Boiled Dinner, 87 
Bran Cakes, 25 
Bread, iz 

General Directions for, za 

Batter, 26 

Boston Brown, 28 

Com, 26 

Date, 15 

Entire Wheat, 15 

German Coffee, 20 

Graham, 14 

Oatmeal, z6 

Potato, 14 



«39 



240 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Bread, Quick Nut, 27 

Rye. IS 

to make with Mixer, 13 

White, 13 
Brussels Sprouts, 139 
Buns, 19 

Hot Cross, 20 



Cabbage, Maitre d'Hdtel, 139 

Salad, 163 

Scalloped, 139 
Cake, General Directions for, 202 

Bread, 206 

Chocolate I, 207 

Chocolate II, 208 

Chocolate Cream, 204 

Cream, 203 

Graham, 206 

Molasses, 207 

Plain, 203 

Spanish, 204 

Spice, 208 

Sponge, 205 

Walnut Mocha, 204 

White, 204 

White Nut, 205 
Cake Fillings, Cream, 212 

Chocolate Cream, 212 
Cakes, Plain Drop, 209 
Carrots, B6chamel, 141 

Boiled, 1 40 

Creamed with Turnips, 140 

German, 141 
Cauliflower, Buttered, 142 

Creamed, 142 
Celery, Creamed, 142 
Cereals, Methods of Cooking, 38 

Methods of Serving, 39 

Table for Cooking, 39 
Cheese, Cream Toast, 157 

Fondue, 156 

Scalloped, 156 
Chicken, Broiled, 108 

Creamed, 114 



Chicken, Creole, no 

Croquettes, 123 

Fricassee, no 

Fried, 108 

a la Jardiniere, X09 

Pie, III 

Ragout, 116 

Roast, 106 

Smothered, 108 

Souffle, 117 

Stew, 109 
Chocolate Cream, 192 

Reception, 51 
Chops, Baked Lamb, 94 

Broiled, 93 

Pah-Broiled, 94 

Pork, 10 1 
Chowder, Clam, 68 

Com, 67 

Fish, 68 

Potato, 67 
Cider Apple Sauce, 2 
Clam Chowder, 68 
Clams, Scalloped, 78 

Steamed, 78 
Cocoa, Breakfast, 50 

Reception, 51 
Coffee, After-Dinner, 49 

Breakfast, 49 
Cold Slaw, 140 
Cookies, Boston, 211 

Oatmeal Drop, 210 

Soft Molasses, 210 

Sugar, 209 
Com Cakes, Golden, 27 
Corn Qiowder, 67 

on Cob, 142 

Oysters, 143 

Pudding, 143 

Scalloped, 143 
Comed Beef Hash, 1x9 
Cottage Pie, 118 

Pudding, 179 
Crab Apple, Spiced Jelly, 10 
Crabs, 79 



INDEX 



241 



Cranberry Frapp6, 198 

Jelly. 5 

Sauce, 5 

Tart Filling, 171 
Cream Puffs, 205 
Cream Tapioca, 194 
Creole Spaghetti, 48 
Croquettes, 122 

Chicken, 123 

Sweet Potato, 155 

Veal, 123 
Croutons, 34 
Crumbs, 34 

Buttered, 34 
Cucumbers, 142 
Custard, Baked, 189 

Caramel, 189 

Peach, 192 



Date Patty Cakes, 208 

Dates, 5 

Doughnuts, Raised, 21 
with Sour Milk, 31 
with Sweet Milk, 31 

Dried Apples with Peaches, 4 

Duck, Roast, 11 1 

Dumplings, 89 ' 
Apple, 177 

Dutch Apple Cake, 178 



Eggplant, 144 
Egg Roll, 177 
Eggs, Baked, 54 
Creamed, 57 
Curried, 57 
Fried, 54 
Poached, 53 

with Cream Toast, 55 
with Minced Tongue, 54 
Scalloped with Peas, 58 
Scrambled, 57 

with Tomato, 56 
Soft-Cooked, 53 



Fig Tapioca, 193 
Figs and Rhubarb, 6 

Stewed, 6 
Finnan Haddie, Buttered, 76 

Creamed, 124 
Fish, 71 

Baked with Stuffing, 73 
without Stuffing, 74 

Boiled, 72 

Broiled, 73 

Chowder, 68 

to Clean, 71 

Cooking and Serving, 72 ^ 

Creamed Salt Cod, 125 

Croquettes, 124 

Fried, 75 

Hash, 125 

Scalloped, 124 

to Skin, 71 

Steamed, 72 

Stuffing for, 74 
Oyster, 74 

Time-table for Cooking, 8j 

when in Season, 71 
Flageolets, 137 
Flour, Bread and Pastry, 11 
Frankfurters, 104 
Frappe, Cranberry, 198 

Grape, 199 
Fritter Batter, 32 
Fritters, Apple, 32 

Hominy, 33 

Rice, 32 
Frosting, Caramel, 214 

Chocolate, 214 

Cocoa, 213 

Mocha, 213 

Orange, 212 

Plain, 212 

White, 213 

White Mountain Cream, 213 
Fruit Jelly, 194 

Puffs, 178 

Punch, 52 

Salad, 165 



242 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Gingerbread, 206 
Sour Milk, 207 

Gnocchi, 42 

Goose, Roast, 11 x 

Gooseberries, Stewed, 6 

Graham Gems, 25 

Grape Catsup, 9 

Grapes, Spiced, 8 

Gravy, Brown, 85 
Chicken, 108 

Green Apple Sauce^ a 

Greens, 144 

Griddle Cakes, Rice, 23 
with Sour Milk, ?3 
with Sweet Milk, 23 

Halibut i la Creole, 75 
Ham, Baked, 102 

Barbecued, 102 

Boiled, Z02 

Broiled, 103 

Fried, X03 

Hash, 122 
Hamburg Steak, 84 
Hash, Beef, 120 

Corned Beef, Z19 

Fish, 125 

Ham, 122 

Vegetable, 120 
Hominy, Baked, 42 

Fritters, 33 

Ice Cream, Caramel, 20X 

Chocolate, 201 

Ginger, 200 

Vanilla, 200 
Ices, Lemon, 197 

Orange, 198 

Strawberry, 198 
Irish Stew, 96 

Jelly, Coffee, 195 
Fruit, 194 
Lemon, 194 



Jelly, Orange, 194 

Pineapple, 195 

Prune, 195 

Spiced Crab Apple, zo 
Jelly Jumbles, 209 

Kippered Herring, 76 

Lamb, Fricassee of, 97 

Roast, 94 

Shoulder, 95 

Stew, 96 
Lamb Chops, Baked, 94 

Broiled, 93 

Pan-Broiled, 94 
Lemonade, 51 
Liver with Bacon, 91 

Braised, 92 

Loaf, 91 
Lobster, Creamed, 79 

Deviled, 79 

Scalloped, 79 

Macaroni, Boiled, 43 

with Cheese, 44 

with Chicken, 46 

Creamed, 43 

with Eggs, 47 

Italian, 45 

i la Milanaise, 46 

with Peanut Butter, 44 

with Tomato Saoce, 46 
Meat Cakes, lax 

Casserole of Rice aa^ 117 

Croquettes, 123 

Left-overs, 113 

Minced, 121 
w^Pie. 118 

R^auif^ of, X15 
Meats, 81 

Time-table for Cooktoi^ 8a 
Mexican Chili, 69 

Ragout, 1x6 
Mince Meat, Z7x 



I 



INDEX 



HZ 



Mock Birds, 99^ 
Muffins, Bhteberry, 27 

Cereal, 24 

English, 18 

Entire Wheat, 35 

Graham, 25 

Plain, 24 

Raised, x8 

Rye, 2$ 
Mushes, Fried, 39 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 94 

Braised Leg of, 95 

i la Creole, X15 

Curry, 1x5 

Noodles, 48 

with Qieese, 47 

Omelet, Bread, 55 

Cream, 55 

Rice, 56 

Spanish, 56 
Onions, Boiled, 144 

Creamed, 145 

Sauted, 145 

Scalloped, 145 
Orange Ice, 198 

Jelly, 194 

Marmalade, 8 
Oyster Stew, 66 
Oysters, Creamed, 77 

Fried, 77 

Panned, 77 

to Parboil, 76 

Raw, 76 

Scalloped, 78 

Parsnip Stew, 70 
Parsnips, with Drawn Butter 
Sauce, X45 
Saut6d, 146 
Paste, Plain, 168 
Peach Custard, 192 
Pears, Baked, 7 



Peas, Canned, 146 
Peppers, Stuffed, 146 
Philadelphia Relish, X3» 
Pie, Apple, 168 

Blackberry, X70 

Blueberry, 170 

Custard, 170 

Lemon, 169 

Mince, 171 

Mock Cherry, 170 

Pumpkin, 169 

Raspberry, 170 

Washington, 204 
Pineapple DeKciooi, 194 
Pop-overs, 22 
Potato Chowder, 67 
Potatoes, Austrian, 151 

Baked, 151 

with Bacon, 153 

Broiled, 154 

Cakes, 151 

Creamed, X49 
with Eggs, 150 

Delmonico, 151 

Franconia, 153 

Hashed Brown, 150 

Hongroise, 152 

Lyonnaise, 150 

Maitre d'Hotel, 154 

Mashed, 152 

Mock Puff, 153 

Scalloped, 153 
Pork Chops, lox 
Pork, Cream of Salt. X04 

Crisp Salt, 105 

Roast, 102 
Poultry, to Clean, X05 

to Select, 105 

to Stuff, X06 
Prune Whip, 175 
Prunes, Stewed, 7 
Pudding, Baked Apple, 178 

Baked Chocolate, 176 

Bellevue, i8x 

Caramel Bread, 174 



244 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Pudding, Caramel, 191 
Chocolate Bread, 175 
Cottage, 179 
Cracker, 173 
Cream of Rice, 173 
English Plum, x8i 
Graham, 180 
Honeycomb, 176 
Indian, 173 
Norwegian, 191 
Nut, 181 

Orange Marmalade, 174 
Prune, 172 

Ribbon Cornstarch, 190 
Snow, 196 
Spiced, 175 
Steamed, 179 
Soet, 180 

Rabbit Stew, 112 
Raisins, Stewed, 8 
Rhubarb, Baked, 7 

Scalloped, 182 

Stewed, 7 
Rice, Boiled, 40 

with Cheese, 41 

Creamed, 40 

Curried, 41 

Fritters, 32 

Spanish, 40 

with Tomato, 41 
Rocks, 29 
Rolls, Cinnamon, 30 

Parker House, 17 

Plain, 16 

Potato, 19 

Squash, 18 

Swedish, 20 
Rusks, 17 
Rye Drop Cakes, 32 

Salads, Apple and Celery, 162 
Apple and Banana, 162 
Banana and Nut, 162 



Salads, Cabbage, 163 

Cabbage and Celery, 163 

Cheese, 163 

Cheese and Pineapple, 164 

Chicken, 164 

Cucumber, 162 

Daisy, 164 

£gg, 165 

Fruit, 165 

Macedoine, 165 

Potato, 166 

Salmon, I, II, 167 

Tomato, 165 

Uplands, 163 
Salad Dressing, Boiled, 159 

Cream, 159 

French, 160 
Cream, 160 
Creole, 160 

Mayonnaise, 161 
Cream, 161 

Sour Cream, 159 
Sally Lunn, 28 
Salmon Loaf, 125 

Surprise, 126 
Samp, Baltimore, 43 
Sauces for Meat, Bechamel, 130 

Brown, 128 

Cucumber, 13Z 

Currant Jelly, 130 

Drawn Butter, 128 

Egg, 128 

Horseradish, 131 

Maitre d'Hotel, 131 

Mint, 132 

Mushroom, 128 

Mustard, 132 

Philadelphia Relish, 130 

Pickle, 128 

Piquante, 129 

Spanish, 129 

Tartare, 131 

Tomato, 129 

Highly Seasoned, 129 

White, I, II, III, 127 



INDEX 



245 



Sauces for Pudding, Apricot, 184 

Caramel, 185 

docolate I, II, 184 

Cream, 185 

Creamy, 185 

Foamy, 185 

Fruit, 186 

Grape, 186 

Hard, x86 

Lemon, 186 

Nutmeg, 187 

Orange, 187 

Soft Custard, x88 

Sterling, 188 

Strawberry, 187 

Sunshine, 187 

Vanilla, 187 
Sausages, 103 
Scallops, Deviled, 80 

Fried, 80 

Scalloped, 80 
Scrapple, X04 
Sherbet, Apricot, 200 

Fruit, 199 

Milk, 199 

Mint, 198 

Tapioca, 192 
Shortcake, Peach, x8o 

Strawberry, 179 
Shrimps, 79 
Soup, Baked Bean, 65 

Bouillon, 60 

Celery, 62 

Chicken, 60 

to Clear, 60 

Com, 63 

Cream of Cabbage, 63 
Cheese, 65 
Green Pea, 63 
Tomato, 66 

Lima Bean, 64 

Potato, 62 

Split Pea, 64 

Stock, 59, 60 

Tomato, 65 



Soup, Ttu-kcy, 60 

Vegetable, 61 
Spaghetti, Creole, 45 
Spanish Stew, 90 
Sponge Drops, 211 
Squash, Winter, 147 
String Beans, Buttered, 137 

Canned, 137 

k la Lyonnaise, 138 
Stuffing for Duck, 1x2 

for Goose, x 1 1 

Oyster, X07 

Plain, 107 

for Veal, 98 
Succotash, 147 
Sweet Potatoes, Croquettes, 155 

Glazed, 154 



Tapioca, Apple, 172 
Cream, 193 
Fig, 193 
Sherbet, X92 

Tea, so 

Iced, 50 
Tiine-table for Cooking Meats 
and Fish, 82 

for Cooking Vegetables, 134 

Toast, Brown, 33 

Cinnamon, 37 

Cream, 35 

Dry, 33 

French, 35 

German, 35 

Hygienic, 33 

Milk, 35 

Oyster and Celery, 36 

Savory, 37 

Tomato, 36 
Tomato Relish, 9 
Tomatoes, Baked, 36 

Scalloped, X48 
Tongue, Boiled, 88 

Braised, 88 



246 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Tripe in Batter, 92 

k la Creole, 93 

Lyonnaise, 93 
Turkey, Roast, 106 
Turkish Pilaf. 42 
Turnips, New York Style, 148 

Scalloped, 148 

Veal, Braised Shoulder of, 98 
Croquettes, laa 
Fricassee of, 98 
Fricassee with Tomato, 99 
Hearts, too 



Veal, Loaf I, II, 100 

Roast Shoulder of, 97 

Souffle, 117 

Stew, 99 
Vegetables, Curried, 149 

General Directions for, 133 

Hash, 120 

Macedoine of, X49 

Waffles, 23 

Yeast, Liquid, 13 
Yorkshire Pudding, U 



(^ -HjCT 



YC 18147 



/* 





417273 



.+ v^ 






<r\-'''~v'v^v 



UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA LIBRARY 




Connecticut 

Class No. ^ ^ 
Cost 



-02:: 



Please 

handle this volume 

with care. 

The University of Connecticut 
Libraries, Storrs 



^ » »<» 




^V/ 



J^ 



-^ ^ 



/ 3/i^y 



Tl s Book may be kept out 

TIVO fFEEKS 



ATI 





PLEASE NOTE 



It has been necessary to replace some of the original 
pages in this book with photocopy reproductions 
because of damage or mistreatment by a previous user. 

Replacement of damaged materials is both expensive 
and time-consuming. Please handle this volume with 
care so that information will not be lost to future readers. 



Thank you for helping to preserve the University's 
research collections. 



Recipes and Menus for Fifty 

as used in 

The School of Domestic Science 

of 

The Boston Young Women's 
Christian Association 



Prepared by 
FRANCES LOWE SMITH 



/_p 



(9 *" . 




WHITCOMB & BARROWS 

BOSTON 191 3 



Copyright 191 3 
By Whitcomb & Barrows 



/3M8 



PREFACE 

The object in publishing this collection of recipes and 
menus is twofold — to put them in a convenient and 
accessible form for our own graduates, who find them 
invaluable in their various fields of work, and for others 
who need tried and definite recipes for use in small 
institutions. 

This is not a complete cook book, although it furnishes 
material for a sufficiently varied menu. The recipes are 
those used by students in the preparation of meals in the 
school-home kitchen, as distinct from the laboratory; 
and have been collected and adapted, during a period of 
eleven years, from various sources — from personal experi- 
ments, from the school laboratory recipes, from student- 
matrons, and from numerous cook books. 

The recipes are given just as used in the kitchen of the 
School of Domestic Science, but a word of explanation 
is necessary. Our students are women, living an indoor, 
semi-sedentary life, and are comparatively light eaters. 
The conditions also are such that it is possible to plan more 
closely as to quantities than is usually practicable else- 
where. For these reasons, the quantities given will some- 
times be insufficient for families of the same size ; and 
again will be just right for smaller numbers — as, for 
instance, summer camps, boys' schools, or college halls. 

It is a pleasure to me to express my thanks for the hearty 
cooperation of principal and students in this undertaking, 
and for the invaluable help, inspiration, and encourage- 

iii 



IV PREFACE 

ment of those whose teachings and writings have made 
the work possible — to Miss Harriet Folger, my instructor 
in the School of Domestic Science; to Miss Mary Mac- 
Dermaid, the present instructor in cookery; and to Miss 
Anna Barrows and Miss Fannie Merritt Farmer, authors 
and lecture-demonstrators. F. L. s. 



FOREWORD 

As I begin to write this brief foreword, several memory 
pictures come before me. 

I see the bending shoulders and anxious forehead of a 
student, who, having a few spare minutes, grudgingly 
spends them in the drudgery of copying recipes. But the 
recipes may be her future stock in trade, so there is no 
alternative. 

I am showing a visitor through the school. She is the 
able manager of a large restaurant and practiced efficiency 
engineering long before the term became common. We 
pass through the home kitchen and instantly her keen eye 
and quick hand are upon the open recipe box being used 
by some student. "Oh, splendid!" she exclaims; "how I 
wish these specific and complete directions could be in the 
hands of the many who need them !" 

I am sitting in my office. A recent graduate has come 
back to the school and is telling me of her first experi- 
ences. Engaged to teach in the high school of a small city, 
what was her surprise to be told upon arrival that she 
was also to superintend and to be responsible for the mid- 
day meal in the outdoor school of fifty anaemic children. 
"But I was equal to the situation. Miss Forehand," she 
said; "I had copied the home recipes." 

So the book is published, that tired students may 
escape copying, that those who can use the recipes and 
menus may find them accessible, and that the tool wielded 
so many years by Miss Smith for the school's success may 
be put in permanent form. 

A. Josephine Forehand, Principal, 



CONTENTS 

Weights and Measures ix 

Fruits i 

Bread . . ' ii 

Quick Doughs 22 

Cereals 38 

Beverages 49 

Eggs 53 

Soups 59 

Fish 71 

Meats 81 

Sauces for Meats and Fish .... 127 

Vegetables 133 

Cheese Dishes 156 

Salads and Salad Dressings . . . .158 

Pastry 168 

Hot Desserts 172 

Pudding Sauces 184 

Cold Desserts .189 

Frozen Desserts 197 

Cake and Cookies 202 

Cake Fillings and Frostings . . . .212 

Menus 215 

Bibliography 237 

Index 239 



vu 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Correct measurements are absolutely essential to suc- 
cessful cookery, and these are possible to inexperienced 
cooks only by following certain definite rules. 

All measures in this book are level. Half-pint measur- 
ing cups, pint and quart measures, and teaspoons and 
tablespoons of regulation size are used. 

Flour is sifted before measuring, then sifted again with 
other dry ingredients except sugar. To measure dry in- 
gredients, fill measure rounding full with a spoon or scoop, 
withoitt shaking, and level with a knife. To measure butter 
and similar ingredients, pack spoon, cup, or other measure 
solidly, and level with a knife. 

Weights are more accurate, and in some cases more 
convenient, than measures, and there should be in every 
kitchen a dial scale of several pounds capacity, and in 
institutional kitchens a platform scale for meats and bulky 
provisions. 

Table of Weights and Measures 

= I tablespoon 

^ I cup 

=: I quart 

^ I gallon 

= I peck 

= I bushel 

= I pound 
ix 



3 


teaspoons 


i6 


tablespoons 


4 


cups 


4 


quarts 


8 


quarts 


4 


pecks 


i6 


ounces 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



2 


tablespoons butter 


— 


I ounce 


2 


cups butter or lard 


=■ 


I pound 


2 


tablespoons sugar 


— 


I ounce 


2 


cups granulated sugar 


= 


I pound 


2| 


cups powdered sugar 


— 


I pound 


2| 


cups brown sugar 


— 


I pound 


4 


tablespoons flour 


= 


I ounce 


4 


cups flour 


— 


I pound 


5i 


cups coffee 


— 


I pound 


2 


quarts tea 


— 


I pound 


8 


egg whites 


— 


I cup 


i6 


egg yolks 


r— 


I cup 


10 


medium eggs without shell 


^ 


I pound 


2 


cups chopped meat 


— 


I pound 


4 


cups cocoa 


— 


I pound 


3 


cups currants or raisins 


= 


I pound 


6o 


pounds potatoes 


— 


I bushel 


52 


pounds onions 


= 


I bushel 


24 


pounds string beans 


— 


I bushel 


56 


pounds tomatoes 


— 


I bushel 


55 


pounds turnips 


— 


I bushel 


54 


pounds sweet potatoes 


^=^ 


I bushel 


45 


pounds parsnips 


"=■ 


I bushel 


50 


pounds carrots 


: — 


I bushel 


60 


pounds beets 


zzz 


I bushel 


60 


pounds beans 


z=z 


I bushel 


48 


pounds apples 


z=z 


I bushel 


196 


pounds 


= 


I barrel 



FRUITS 

Baked Apples 

50 medium sized apples ij teaspoons cinnamon or 
I J quarts sugar -J cup butter if desired 

Wash and core apples, and, if skins are tough, pare 
upper half. Place in agate dripping pans, skin down, and 
fill cores with sugar. Cinnamon should be mixed with 
sugar. If butter is used, put bits on top of sugar. Put 
hot water in bottom of pans to depth of about one inch. 
Bake in moderately hot oven until quite soft. It is better 
that they should lose their shape than be underdone. The 
length of time depends wholly upon kind of apple, but 
allow an hour or more. Serve hot or cold, with or with- 
out cream. If apples are very tart, or if they are to be 
used for dessert, more sugar will be required. 

Apple Sauce I 

16 pounds (i J pecks) tart, 2 quarts water 
juicy apples i teaspoon salt 

2 quarts sugar Spice or lemon if desired 

Wash, pare, and core apples ; add water and cook until 
soft. Put through puree strainer, add salt and sugar, and 
serve hot or cold. 

Apple Sauce II 

12 pounds tart, red, 2 quarts water 

juicy apples i teaspoon salt 

I J quarts sugar ij teaspoons cinnamon 



2 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Wash, quarter, and core apples ; add water and cook 
until soft. Put through puree strainer, add salt, sugar, 
and cinnamon. Serve with pork. 

Apple Compote 

i8 pounds tart apples i teaspoon cloves 
3 quarts sugar i teaspoon salt 

I J quarts water I large lemon 

Wash, pare, and core apples ; cut in halves or quarters. 
Cut lemon in slices and each slice in quarters. Bring sugar 
and water to boiling point, add lemon, salt, and cloves, 
then turn in prepared apples. Bring to boiling point and 
cook in fireless cooker six or eight hours. They should 
be red and unbroken. Lift out carefully the pieces of 
apple and pour over them the juice, which should jelly 
slightly. If necessary, juice can be cooked down more 
before pouring over apples. Serve very cold for dessert, 
with or without cream. 

Cider Apple Sauce 

l6 pounds tart apples i quart boiled cider 

2 quarts sugar i quart water 

Pare, quarter, and core apples; add cider, water, and 
sugar. Cover and cook slowly four or five hours. As 
amount of sugar varies with kind of apple used, it is well 
not to put in all the sugar at first. The sauce should be 
thick, mahogany red, and a little tart. Serve with meat. 
Cinnamon is sometimes added. 

Green Apple Sauce 

i6 pounds green apples 2 quarts water 
2 quarts sugar 6 tablespoons butter 

I teaspoon salt Almond extract 



FRUITS 3 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core green apples. Add water 
and cook until soft, stirring often to prevent burning. 
Add more water if needed, as amount required varies. ,^ith 
kind and age of apple. Rub through puree strainer, add 
salt, butter, and sugar, using more sugar if desired. Flavor 
sparingly with almond extract. 

Spiced Apples 

12 pounds tart apples 2-| teaspoons cinnamon 
I quart water i teaspoon ground cloves 

5 cups sugar i teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons butter 
Wash, halve, core, and quarter or cut crosswise in one- 
fourth inch slices Baldwin or other tart red apples. Put 
apples, and sugar mixed with seasonings, in fireless cooker 
kettle in layers, dot with butter, pour over hot water, bring 
to boiling point on range, and cook four or five hours in 
cooker. Or put into stone jars or baking dishes, and cook 
slowly three or four hours in oven. The apples should be 
mahogany red in color. Serve with roast pork or mutton. 

Glazed Apples 

2 quarts sugar i peck Baldwin or other 

2 quarts water tart red apples 

Make syrup of sugar and water. Wash and core apples 
and cut crosswise in one-half inch slices. Cook in syrup 
until tender and transparent, but not broken. Do not put 
in so many at a time as to break or crush them. Drain 
and keep hot until ready to serve. More water and sugar 
may be added to syrup at anytime if necessary. The syrup 
that is left may be used in making apple sauce. Serve with 
sausage, bacon, or pork. 



i 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Fried Apples 

i6 pounds tart apples i J cups bacon, sausage, or 
2 cups sugar pork fat, or butter 

I tablespoon salt i teaspoon paprika 

Wash, quarter, core, and slice apples. Melt butter or fat 
in frying pans, put in apples, sprinkle with salt, sugar, and 
papiika. Cover closely, and cook until apples are soft 
and slightly browned, stirring occasionally. Serve with 
bacon, sausage, or pork chops. 

Dried Apple and Peach Sauce 

Take equal quantities of dried apples and peaches. 
Wash thoroughly, add water to barely cover, let soak over 
night, bring to boiling point, and cook two hours, or until 
soft, in fireless cooker or on back of range. Rub through 
strainer, add sugar and cinnamon to taste. Serve cold. 

Stewed Apricots 

4 pounds dried apricots 3-J cups sugar 

Wash apricots thoroughly. Cover with cold water, soak 
over night, and cook slowly in same water, in double 
boiler, until soft but not broken. When nearly done, 
sprinkle sugar over top, but do not stir. 

Baked Bananas 

3 cups sugar 9 tablespoons cornstarch 

I J teaspoons salt ij quarts boiling water 

f cup lemon juice 36 bananas 

Mix dry ingredients, add water, and boil one minute, 
stirring constantly, then add lemon juice. Butter baking 



FRUITS 5 

dishes. Remove skins from bananas, cut in halves length- 
wise, then each half crosswise. Put in baking dishes a 
layer of bananas, then a layer of sauce, until all are used. 
Cover with buttered crumbs, using three cups soft, stale 
crumbs, and three-fourths cup butter. Bake until crumbs 
are brown. 

Sliced Bananas 

4 dozen large, firm, 2 cups powdered sugar 

ripe bananas J cup lemon juice 

Peel and slice bananas, arrange in serving dishes in 
layers, alternating with sugar and lemon juice. 

Cranberry Sauce 

" 6 quarts cranberries 3 quarts sugar 

i^ quarts cold water 

Pick over berries, wash in cold water, put into sauce- 
pan, add sugar and water. Cover, heat slowly without 
stirring. Boil slowly fifteen minutes, or until skins are 
tender and juice jellies. Skim if necessary. Serve cold. 

Cranberry Jelly 

4 quarts cranberries 2 quarts sugar 

I quart water 

Pick over and wash berries, add boiling water, and boil 
twenty minutes. Rub through puree strainer, add sugar, 
boil five minutes. Turn into jelly glasses. 

Dates 

Wash and stone eight pounds dates, steam until tender, 
chill, and serve with thin cream for dessert. 



6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Stewed Figs 

6 pounds pulled figs 2 lemons 

1 quart sugar Water to cover figs 

Wash figs thoroughly, cover with fresh water, and let 
soak several hours. Sprinkle sugar over top and cook in 
double boiler until figs are tender, adding lemon juice 
w^hen nearly done. Do not stir them at all, as that crushes 
them, and they should be unbroken. Strain off the liquid 
and boil until thick as syrup. Serve cold with whipped 
cream for dessert. 

Stewed Figs and Rhubarb 

6 pounds rhubarb ij quarts sugar 

2 pounds figs Water to cover figs 

Wash figs thoroughly, add hot water to barely cover^ 
and soak until plump. Wash rhubarb and cut in inch 
pieces without peeling. Put rhubarb, figs, and sugar inta 
double boiler or fireless cooker kettle in layers, pouring 
over them the water in which figs were soaked. Bring to 
boiling point and cook until fruit is tender. Serve cold 
for breakfast or luncheon. 

Stewed Gooseberries 

6 quarts gooseberries 2 quarts sugar 

2 quarts water 

Remove tops and stems and wash berries. Dissolve 
sugar in water, bring to boiling point, add berries, and 
simmer gently until tender. More water may be added 
if desired. 



FRUITS 



Baked Pears 



if pecks pears 2 quarts sugar 

if quarts water f teaspoon cloves 

Wash, halve, and core pears. Add sugar, water, and 
cloves, cover closely, and bake slowly several hours, or 
until tender. 

Stewed Prunes 

5 pounds prunes 5 cups sugar 

Wash prunes thoroughly, cover with cold water, and 
soak over night or longer. Cook in same water in double 
boiler until prunes are soft, adding more water if neces- 
sary. Sprinkle sugar over top, but do not stir. Serve 
cold. Less sugar may be used if for breakfast. 

Stewed Rhubarb 

10 pounds rhubarb 3 cups water 

2j quarts sugar 

Wash rhubarb, cut off imperfect or tough skin, and cut 
in one-inch pieces. Put in kettle with sugar and water, 
bring to boiling point, and cook slowly on range or in 
fireless cooker until tender. One hour or more will be 
required in cooker. 

Baked Rhubarb 

10 pounds rhubarb 3 quarts sugar 

Wash rhubarb and cut in inch pieces, removing tough 
or imperfect skin. Put in kettle with sugar, let stand an 
hour or so, then cook slowly in oven two or three hours. 



S RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Stewed Raisins 
Wash six pounds raisins, cover with cold water, soak 
several hours, or over night, and stew gently until plump 
and tender. No sugar is needed. 

Orange Marmalade 
I dozen oranges 6 lemons 

8 quarts water Sugar 

Wash fruit and cut crosswise in very thin slices, remov- 
ing seeds. Add water and let stand twenty- four hours. 
Boil fifteen minutes and let stand another twenty-four 
hours. To every quart of mixture add one quart gran- 
ulated sugar, boil thirty minutes, or until juice jellies 
slightly. Put in sterilized jars and seal, or cover with 
paraffine. 

Apple Marmalade 
6 pounds finely-chopped I -J ozs. preserved ginger 

apple 6 pounds sugar 

6 lemons — rind and juice 3 cups water 
Pare and core tart, juicy apples before weighing. Boil 
sugar and water together three minutes, add grated rind 
and juice of lemons, chopped ginger and apple, and cook 
slowly two hours, or until fruit is clear. This may be 
-cooked in fireless cooker. 

Spiced Grapes 

8 pounds Concord grapes 4 teaspoons each cloves, 
8 pounds sugar cinnamon, nutmeg, 

I J quarts vinegar and allspice 

Wash and stem grapes before weighing. Cook grapes 
and vinegar together until skins are tender, add sugar and 
spices, and cook until thick. V 



FRUITS ^ 

Tomato Relish 

1 peck ripe tomatoes 2 teaspoons ground mace 

2 cups chopped celery 2 teaspoons cloves 

2 cups chopped onions 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

4 chopped red peppers 2 teaspoons black pepper 

3 cups sugar J pound celery seed 
I cup salt 3 pints vinegar 

Chop tomatoes finely, drain, and throw away juice. 
Mix ingredients well, and seal in sterilized jars. Keep in 
cold place, and relish will keep for months without cooking. 

Grape Catsup 

6 quarts Concord grapes 4 tablespoons allspice 

4 pounds brown sugar 4 tablespoons cinnamon 
I quart vinegar 4 tablespoons salt 

4 tablespoons cloves J tablespoon cayenne 

Wash grapes and pick from stems before measuring. 
Cook until soft, rub through puree strainer, add other 
ingredients, and boil until of consistency of tomato catsup. 
Seal while hot. 

Apple Catsup 

10 pounds prepared apples 4 teaspoons mustard 

3 quarts water 3 tablespoons cinnamon 

I J quarts sugar 4 tablespoons salt 

3 teaspoons paprika 2 small grated onions 

4 teaspoons cloves 2 quarts cider vinegar 

Wash, quarter, and core sour apples. Add water, cook 
until soft and nearly dry, then rub through puree strainer. 
Add other ingredients and cook very slowly for three or 
four hours, or until mahogany red in color. Seal while- 
hot. 



.10 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Spiced Crab Apple Jelly 

I peck crab apples 3 quarts vinegar 

3 tablespoons cloves i quart water 

4 tablespoons stick Sugar 

cinnamon 

If vinegar is very strong, use two quarts vinegar and 
two quarts water. Tie spices separately in strong bags. 
Cook apples, vinegar, water, and spices together until soft, 
strain. Add an equal amount of sugar, boil until it jellies. 



BREAD 

Bread Is a term applied to a great variety of batter and 
dough mixtures, but wheat, in one form or another, is used 
in them all. There are many varieties of wheat, of which 
the housekeeper should be familiar with the two, winter 
wheat and spring wheat. The former is sown in the fall, 
remains in the ground all winter, and is harvested the fol- 
lowing summer, producing a grain which is poor in gluten 
and rich in starch. The latter, or spring wheat, is sown 
in the spring and harvested at about the same time as the 
former, but the grain is just the reverse of that of winter 
wheat, being rich in gluten and poor in starch. Bread flour 
is wholly or largely from spring v/heats ; pastry flour is 
from winter wheat and is sometimes called St. Louis flour. 

Bread flour is creamy in color and slightly granular in 
texture, so that it does not pack when squeezed in the 
hand, but falls apart readily when the pressure is removed. 
Pastry flour is whiter in color, smoother to the touch, and 
is easily pressed into shape in the hand by pressure. As 
the amount of gluten in flour determines its price, bread 
flour is more expensive than pastry, but it is cheaper in 
the end, because a given weight of flour produces a greater 
quantity of bread. 

Bread flour is always used with yeast ; pastry flour for 
all other batters and doughs, unless otherwise specified in 
recipe. If, for any reason, it is necessary to use bread flour 
instead of pastry, use two tablespoons less flour to each 
cup, or two ounces less to each pound. In other words, 
seven-eighths of a measure of bread flour is equivalent to 
a whole measure of pastry. 

II 



12 recipes and menus for fifty 

General Directions 

Sift all flour before measuring. For shortening use 
vegetole, cottolene, cotosuet, or crisco, instead of butter 
or lard, because they are cheaper. Both sugar and short- 
ening may be omitted and still have a sweet, wholesome 
bread, but sugar hastens fermentation and shortening 
makes a more tender bread, which is desirable if it is to 
be used for toast. At night, after the bread is kneaded, 
brush with melted fat, to prevent crust from forming. In 
the morning cut down the dough thoroughly with a knife, 
or by turning the bread machine, then shape into loaves 
without using any flour. If the dough is sticky, dip the 
fingers in melted fat. It sometimes happens that rye or 
other dark breads are too sticky to mold without flour. 
In that case it is better to put the dough into pans with- 
out molding or shaping at all. Brush with melted butter 
when first put into the pans, to prevent formation of crust 
while dough rises, and to give tenderness and flavor to 
crust. 

All yeast breads should double in bulk before baking. 
The oven should be 360° F. when bread is put in the oven 
and cooled to 300° after about twenty minutes. The oven 
may be tested without a thermometer as follows : Put a 
little flour on bottom of oven, close door, and if flour 
browns slowly while counting forty, the oven is just right 
for bread. Bake sixty minutes for pound loaves. The 
loaves should be of a uniform golden brown all over when 
done. Remove at once from pans and place on a wire 
cooler or on a bread board, with one end of each loaf 
raised so as to allow air to circulate around it. Keep in 
tightly-closed tin receptacles. 



BREAD 13 

To Make Bread with Mixer 
Put into the bread mixer the sugar, salt, shortening, 
etc., then add hot Hquid. When cool add dissolved yeast 
and the flour, which should be measured very accurately, 
or weighed, using exactly six quarts or six pounds to two 
quarts of liquid. Turn mixer for five minutes or longer. 
In the morning, or when light, turn for five minutes. 
Shape into loaves, brush with melted butter, let rise again, 
bake sixty minutes or till done. 

Liquid Yeast 

4 medium-sized potatoes | cake dry yeast dissolved 
2 tablespoons salt in 

4 tablespoons sugar J cup lukewarm water 

2 quarts water 

Boil potatoes and mash fine ; add salt, sugar, and water 
in which potatoes were cooked, adding more water, if 
necessary, to make two quarts. When cool, add dissolved 
yeast. Keep in warm place till light, then in a cold place, 
if it is not to be used at once. Use this yeast in place of 
other liquid, in making bread. Bread made in this way 
rises quickly and is very tender and moist, although it 
becomes moldy more quickly in hot weather than that 
made with dry yeast. 

White Bread 

'i quart milk 4 tablespoons sugar 

I quart water 2 tablespoons salt 

I yeast cake dissolved in ^ cup shortening 
J cup lukewarm water Si to 6 quarts flour 
Scald milk, add sugar, salt, shortening, and hot water, 
cool till lukewarm. Add dissolved yeast and flour gradu- 



14 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ally, beating hard at first. When stiff enough, take out on 
well-floured board and knead till smooth and springy. Put 
back into well-greased mixing pan, brush with melted 
shortening, let rise over night. In the morning shape into 
loaves, but do not put any flour on board. Brush with 
melted butter, let rise till double in bulk, bake sixty minutes 
in moderately hot oven. This quantity makes six large 
loaves. 

Potato Bread 

2 quarts boiling water i quart mashed potato 

2 tablespoons salt i yeast cake dissolved in 

4 tablespoons sugar J cup lukewarm water 

4 tablespoons shortening 5-I to 6 quarts flour 

Mash hot boiled potato, or use cold mashed potato, put- 
ting it through the potato ricer if lumpy. Add boiling 
water, salt, sugar, and shortening. When lukewarm, add 
yeast and flour, beating well until stiff enough to knead. 
Let rise over night, put into well-greased tins, brush with 
melted butter, let rise till double in bulk, bake sixty minutes 
in moderately hot oven. 

Graham Bread 
I quart hot milk i yeast cake dissolved in 

J quart hot water J cup lukewarm water 

I cup molasses 3 quarts flour 

I -J tablespoons salt Graham flour to knead 

Sift Graham flour, but mix bran with it again before 
measuring. Put molasses and salt into mixing pan, add 
liquid. When cool add dissolved yeast and flour to knead. 
Let rise over night, shape into loaves, brush generously 
with melted butter. When risen to double its bulk, bake 
about sixty minutes in moderate oven. 



BREAD 15 

Entire Wheat Bread 

I quart scalded milk f cup sugar 

1 quart hot water i yeast cake dissolved in 

2 tablespoons salt J cup lukewarm water 
J cup shortening I quart white flour 

5 quarts entire wheat flour 

Put sugar, salt, and shortening into mixing pan, add 
hot liquid and cool. Add yeast, white flour, and entire 
wheat flour. When smooth and elastic to touch, put into 
greased mixing pan, let rise over night. In morning shape 
into loaves, brush with melted butter, let rise to double its 
bulk, bake from fifty to sixty minutes in moderately hot 
oven. If dough is too soft to handle in morning, cut down 
well with knife and turn into bread tins without taking 
on to the bread board. 

Rye Bread 

I quart hot milk 4 tablespoons shortening 

1 quart hot water i yeast cake 

2 tablespoons salt 3 quarts white flour 
I -J cups brown sugar 3 quarts rye flour 

Dissolve yeast cake in one-fourth cup lukewarm water. 
Prepare and bake as for Entire Wheat Bread. 

Date Bread 

2 quarts warm wheat i yeast cake dissolved in 

mush J cup lukewarm water 

2 cups brown sugar 5 cups English walnut 
4 teaspoons salt meats 

J cup melted shortening 5 cups stoned dates 



l6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut nuts and dates in pieces. Mix the first four ingredi- 
ents, add dissolved yeast and flour to knead. In the morn- 
ing, or after the first rising, knead the nuts and dates into 
the dough ; shape into loaves, let rise, bake from fifty to 
sixty minutes. 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 quarts boiling water 6 quarts flour 

I quart rolled oats i yeast cake 

I cup molasses 2 tablespoons salt 

Dissolve yeast in one-fourth cup cool water. Pour boil- 
ing water on rolled oats and let stand half an hour or 
longer. When lukewarm add molasses, salt, dissolved 
yeast, and flour. When smooth and elastic to touch, put 
to rise over night. In morning shape into loaves, or if very 
sticky, cut down well with knife and put into tins without 
taking on to the board. Brush with melted butter, let rise 
to double in bulk, bake sixty minutes or till done. 

Plain Rolls 

I-J pints scalded milk 3 tablespoons sugar 

I J pints hot water 3 tablespoons shortening 

I -J yeast cakes dissolved in i tablespoon salt 

J cup cool water 4 to 4^ quarts flour 

Put salt, sugar, and shortening into mixing pan, add hot 
liquids. When cool, add yeast and flour to knead as soft 
as can be handled. Let rise over night. In morning, if 
wanted for breakfast, shape at once, but if for luncheon, 
cut down dough and let rise again before shaping. Shape 
into small biscuits or finger rolls, place closely in greased 
pans, brush with melted butter, let rise till very light, bake 
from twelve to twenty minutes in hot oven. This quantity 
makes about one hundred medium-sized rolls. 



BREAD 17 

Parker House Rolls 

I J quarts scalded milk i tablespoon salt 

} cup shortening i^ yeast cakes 

J cup sugar 4 to 4J quarts flour 

Add sugar, salt, and shortening to milk. When luke- 
warm, add yeast which has been dissolved in one-fourth 
cup lukewarm water, and flour to knead as soft as can be 
handled. Let rise over night. In morning cut down and 
let rise again before shaping. If dough is Hght before it 
is time to shape rolls, it can be put in the refrigerator till 
wanted. Roll out one-third inch thick on an unfloured 
board, shape with biscuit cutter first dipped in flour. Dip 
handle of case knife in flour, and with it make crease 
through middle of each piece. Brush over one-half the 
piece with melted butter, fold edges together, pressing 
them tightly. Place in greased pan one inch apart, let rise 
till double in bulk, bake twelve to fifteen minutes in hot 
oven. Brush with melted butter before putting in to bake 
or when partly done. 

This same mixture may be shaped into biscuits, finger 
rolls, or clover leaf rolls. This quantity makes about one 
hundred rolls. 

Rusks 

ij quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

ij cups shortening I yeast cake dissolved in 

ij cups sugar J cup lukewarm water 

6 eggs Flour to knead 

Add shortening, salt, and sugar to hot milk. When 
lukewarm, add beaten egg, yeast, and flour to make soft 
batter. Beat hard, add enough flour to knead, and let rise 
over night. In morning make into small biscuits, place 



l8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

in pan so that they will touch each other, and let rise again. 
Before baking, make three parallel creases in top of each 
biscuit, brush with milk, sprinkle with sugar, bake in hot 
oven from twelve to twenty minutes, according to size. 

Raised Muffins 
J quart scalded milk 6 tablespoons shortening 

f quart water i tablespoon salt 

3 eggs I yeast cake 

f cup sugar 3 quarts flour 

Cool milk and water, dissolve yeast in it, add beaten 
yolks, salt, sugar, and flour ; let rise over night. In morn- 
ing add melted shortening and stiflly-beaten whites. Fill 
muflin pans two-thirds full, let rise in warm place until 
full, and bake from thirty to forty-five minutes in hot oven. 
The muflins should be brown and crisp all over. This 
quantity makes about six dozen. 

English Muffins 

Use recipe for Raised Muffins. When mixture is light 
add melted shortening and whites beaten stiff. Put well- 
greased muffin rings on hot griddle, fill half full, cook 
slowly until well risen and slightly browned underneath, 
turn with pancake turner, and cook on other side. When 
cold, pull them apart and toast to a golden brown. Butter 
generously on the toasted side, reheat, and serve with 
Orange or Grapefruit Marmalade. 

Squash Rolls 

1 1 quarts scalded milk i| quarts sifted squash 

f cup shortening i-J yeast cakes dissolved in 

f cup sugar J cup cold water 

3 teaspoons salt 4 to 4J quarts flour 



BREAD 19 

Add salt, sugar, and shortening to hot milk ; when cool, 
add squash, yeast, and flour to make as soft a dough as 
can be handled. Knead till smooth, let rise over night, 
shape like ordinary rolls, let rise till double in bulk, and 
bake in hot oven. 

Potato Rolls 

4 to 4I quarts flour | cup sugar 

1 4 quarts scalded milk ij quarts mashed potato 

I -J cups shortening i^ yeast cakes dissolved in 

3 teaspoons salt J cup lukewarm water 

Add shortening, salt, potato, and sugar to hot milk. 
When cool, add yeast and flour to make batter. Beat well, 
then add flour to knead. In morning shape into small 
biscuits, place close together in well-greased pan, let rise 
till double in bulk, brush with melted butter, and bake 
twelve to twenty minutes in hot oven. These rolls may 
also be shaped like Parker House or Clover Leaf Rolls. 

Buns 

4 to 4i quarts flour i tablespoon cinnamon 
I -J quarts scalded milk 6 well-beaten eggs 

I J cups shortening i J yeast cakes dissolved in 

3 teaspoons salt J cup lukewarm water 

i-J cups sugar 3 cups currants or raisins 

Add shortening, salt, and sugar to scalded milk. When 
lukewarm, add yeast, eggs, fruit, and flour which has been 
sifted with cinnamon. Knead well, let rise over night. 
In morning shape into small biscuits, place one inch apart 
in well-greased pans, let rise to double in size, and bake in 
hot oven from twelve to twenty minutes. Brush with 
mixture of sugar and milk and put back in oven to dry. 



20 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Hot Cross Buns 

Make same as Buns. When cool, make cross with frost- 
ing on top of each bun. 

Swedish Rolls 

i-J quarts scalded milk ij yeast cakes dissolved in 

f cup shortening J cup water 

■J cup sugar i-J cups sugar 

3 teaspoons salt 3 teaspoons cinnamon 

4 to 4^ quarts flour 2 cups chopped raisins 

Mix first four ingredients, cool, then add yeast and flour 
to knead as soft as can be handled. In morning, or after 
first rising, roll to one-fourth inch thickness, spread gen- 
erously with melted butter. Mix sugar, cinnamon, and 
raisins, and spread evenly over dough; roll up like jelly 
roll and cut in three-fourths inch pieces. Place pieces close 
together in pan, flat side down, let rise till double in bulk, 
and bake in hot oven. When done, brush with white of 
egg, slightly beaten and diluted with one tablespoon water, 
and return to oven to dry egg. 

German Coffee Bread 

I J quarts scalded milk 3 eggs 

I J cups shortening i yeast cake dissolved in 

I cup sugar J cup lukewarm water 

2j teaspoons salt 3J quarts bread flour 

Add shortening, sugar, and salt to milk; when luke- 
warm, add dissolved yeast cake, well-beaten eggs, and 
flour. Beat well, cover, let rise over night. In morning, 
pour into well-greased, shallow pans to depth of one-half 
inch, let rise one hour in warm place. Before baking, brush 



BREAD 2L 

with beaten egg and cover with following mixture : Melt 
one cup butter, add one and one-half cups sugar and five 
teaspoons cinnamon; when sugar is partly melted, add 
one-fourth cup flour. Bake thirty minutes, or till done, 
in rather hot oven. To serve, cut through crust, thea 
break in squares, or pull apart with fork. 

Raised Doughnuts 

2 J quarts flour ij cups sugar 

2j cups scalded milk f cup melted butter 

5 eggs I J teaspoons salt 

I J teaspoons mace f yeast cake 

Dissolve yeast in scalded and cooled milk, stir in one 
quart bread flour, beat well, and let rise over night. In 
morning add beaten eggs, sugar, salt, mace, butter, and 
flour to knead as soft as can be handled — about one and 
one-half quarts. Let rise until double in bulk, which will 
require two or three hours. Take part of dough on floured 
board, pat and roll to three-fourths inch thickness. Cut 
in strips three-fourths inch wide. Twist and lengthen 
these, then shape into figure eight. Repeat, until all the 
dough is used. Let stand on board, closely covered, until 
Hght throughout. Fry in deep fat, drain, cool, and roll 
in powdered sugar. This makes seventy-five doughnuts of 
medium size. 



QUICK DOUGHS 

Baking Powder 

Sift together, seven times or more, the following in- 
gredients : five and five-eighths pounds cream of tartar, 
two and one-half pounds soda, and one and one-fourth 
pounds cornstarch. If ingredients are purchased in large 
quantities, it is much cheaper to make than to buy baking 
powder. 

Pop-overs 

3 quarts milk 12 eggs 

I tablespoon salt 3 quarts flour 

Mix salt with flour, add milk gradually, that mixture 
may not become lumpy. Add eggs which have been beaten 
until light, then beat mixture two minutes with Dover 
&gg beater. Fill hot, well-greased muflin pans three- 
fourths full, bake forty-five minutes or more in a moder- 
ately hot oven. Each pop-over should be double in size, 
and crisp and golden brown all over. If not cooked enough, 
they will not keep their shape, and will be soft and moist 
instead of dry and crisp. If the oven is too hot, they will 
"burn on top before the sides are well crusted. This recipe 
makes six dozen large pop-overs. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts flour i tablespoon salt 

2j quarts sour milk 6 eggs 

4^ teaspoons soda 
22 



QUICK DOUGHS 23 

Sift soda, salt, and flour together. Stir milk into well- 
beaten yolks and add gradually to flour, then fold in beaten 
whites. If wanted thinner, add a little sweet milk. If the 
milk is very thick and sour, it is well to dilute it slightly 
with sweet milk. This amount of batter makes about one 
hundred cakes, allowing one and one-half tablespoons 
batter to each cake. Cook on hot griddle and serve at once. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 

3 quarts flour J cup shortening 
6 tablespoons baking i cup sugar 

powder 2 quarts milk 

4 teaspoons salt 4 eggs 

4 tablespoons molasses 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; beat eggs, add milk and 
molasses, and pour slowly on first mixture. Beat well, add 
shortening, cook at once on hot, well-greased griddle. 
Serve with maple, caramel, or brown sugar syrup. 

Rice Griddle Cakes 

Add two or three cups cooked rice to Sweet or Sour 
Milk Griddle Cake mixture. Serve with syrup or shaved 
maple sugar. 

Waffles 

2 quarts thin, sweet cream 12 to 16 eggs 
8 tablespoons baking 4 teaspoons salt 

powder 4 quarts flour 

Mix dry ingredients. Beat yolks of eggs, add cream 
.and dry ingredients, and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. 
Heat one side of waffle iron, turn, heat other side, and 



24 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

grease both sides thoroughly. Put tablespoonful of mix- 
ture in each compartment near center of iron, cover, and 
turn ahnost as soon as covered, cooking on the other 
side until brown. This quantity makes about twenty-five 
waffles. 

Plain Muffins 

2-J quarts flour 5 eggs 

I cup shortening | cup sugar 

5 teaspoons salt ij quarts milk 

6J tablespoons baking powder 

Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add gradually milk, well- 
beaten eggs, and shortening. Put into well-greased muffin 
pans, filling them two-thirds full, or more. Bake thirty 
minutes, or till done, in moderate oven. This quantity 
makes fifty-five large muffins. 

Cereal Muffins 



2j quarts flour 




3 cups cooked cereal 


ij quarts milk 




6J tablespoons baking 


5 eggs 




powder 


J cup shortening 




5 teaspoons salt 




i 


cup sugar 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Beat eggs, add cereal, 
and beat hard in order to get rid of lumps. Add milk 
slowly, then dry ingredients and melted shortening. Bake 
thirty minutes, or till done, in a moderate oven. 

The cereal may be put through a coarse sieve, or the 
potato ricer, before using. This quantity makes fifty-five 
large muffins. 



QUICK DOUGHS 2^ 

Graham or Entire Wheat Muffins 

2^ pints Graham flour 2J pints milk 
2^ pints white flour 5 eggs 

5 teaspoons salt 6J tablespoons baking 

I cup sugar ' powder 

5 tablespoons shortening 

Sift flour, saving bran from Graham to use in Bran 
Cakes. Mix and sift dry ingredients together; add milk 
gradually, then well-beaten eggs and melted shortening. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, or till done. This 
recipe makes fifty-five large muflins. 

Rye Muflins are made in same way, except that rye flour 
is substituted for Graham. 

Bran Cakes 

1 quart flour 4 teaspoons soda 

2 quarts bran ij quarts milk 

3 teaspoons salt 2 cups molasses 

Sift flour, salt, ,and soda together, add bran and mix 
thoroughly, then add molasses and milk. Beat well and 
bake in muflin pans in moderate oven thirty minutes, or 
till done. This recipe makes about fifty large ones. 

Graham Gems 

2.\ pints Graham flour 5 tablespoons shortening 
24 pints white flour 5 tablespoons baking 

5 teaspoons salt powder 

I cup sugar 2\ pints sour milk sHghtly 

2\ teaspoons soda thickened 

5 eggs 



26 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

If sour milk is very thick and sour, dilute with a little 
sweet milk before using. Sift Graham flour, then mix the 
bran with it again before measuring; or bran can be saved 
to use for Bran Cakes. Mix and sift dry ingredients, add 
milk gradually, well-beaten eggs, and melted shortening. 
Fill gem pans half full, bake twenty minutes, or till done, 
in moderate oven. 

Batter Bread 

I J quarts white corn meal i J quarts cooked rice, 
I J quarts boiling water hominy,or other cereal 

2^ teaspoons salt 3J tablespoons baking 
if quarts milk powder 

12 to 15 eggs 

Pour boiling water on corn meal, add cereal, well-beaten 
eggs, baking powder mixed with salt, and milk. Bake in 
enamel-lined or earthen dishes, in moderate oven, forty- 
five minutes, or until firm like custard. Serve in dishes 
in which it is baked. 

Corn Bread 



I J quarts yellow corn meal 8 tablespoons baking 

ij quarts white flour powder 

I J cups sugar i-J quarts milk 

I tablespoon salt 6 eggs 

6 tablespoons shortening 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; a-dd milk, well-beaten 
eggs, and melted shortening. Pour into well-greased 
shallow pans to depth of one inch, bake thirty minutes, or 
till done, in moderately hot oven. 

Cold corn bread is very nice split, toasted, buttered, and 
served very hot. 



QUICK DOUGHS 2^ 

Golden Corn Cakes 

\ cup shortening 2 cups sugar 

I J tablespoons salt i quart milk 

I J tablespoons soda i quart yellow corn meal 

2f tablespoons cream of i-J quarts flour 

tartar 8 eggs 

Mix as for Corn Bread. Fill well-greased muffin pans 
half full, bake in moderately hot oven twenty minutes, or 
till done. 

Quick Nut Bread 

i\ quarts corn meal 2\ cups brown sugar 

2j quarts Graham flour 3;^ tablespoons soda 
I J quarts pastry flour 4 teaspoons salt 

2\ cups molasses 2\ cups chopped walnuts 

i^ quarts milk ^Otir 

Mix dry ingredients, add molasses and milk, beat well, 
add nuts, bake in shallow loaves, in moderate oven, forty- 
five minutes, or till done. 

Blueberry Muffins 

I cup shortening 5 tablespoons baking 

I J cups sugar powder 

4 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

2f quarts flour 4 cups milk 

4 cups berries 

Cream shortening and sugar together, add well-beaten 
eggs and milk. Mix one cup flour with berries. Sift re- 
mainder of flour with salt and baking powder and add to 
first mixture. Beat well, then stir in berries. Canned 



28 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

berries may be used by straining off liquid before mixing 
with flour. Bake thirty minutes, or till done, in moder- 
ately hot oven. This recipe makes fifty-five muffins of 
medium size. 

Boston Brown Bread 

I quart corn meal 2 cups molasses 

I quart Graham flour 4 teaspoons salt 

I quart entire wheat or rye 2 quarts sour milk 
2 tablespoons soda 

If sweet milk is used, add two and two-thirds table- 
spoons cream of tartar. Mix and sift dry ingredients 
together; add milk and molasses, beat thoroughly. Fill 
well-greased molds two-thirds full, cover and steam three 
and one-half hours. If not used the same day, steam an 
hour before using. Send to table in covered dishes or 
wrapped in napkins. Raisins may be added if desired. 



2i 


Sally 

quarts flour 


Lunn 

li taps milk 


5 
5 


teaspoons salt 
tablespoons baking 
powder 


10 eggs 

5 tablespoons melted 
shortening 




I cup 


sugar 



Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add beaten yolks, short- 
ening, and milk. Beat well, cut and fold in stiffly-beaten 
whites. Pour into shallow cake pans to depth of one inch, 
bake in moderate oven forty minutes, or till done. 

To serve, cut through crust into squares, then break 
apart. 



QUICK DOUGHS 29 

Drop Biscuit 

3 quarts flour f cup shortening 

4J to 5 cups milk or 8 tablespoons baking 

milk and water powder 

2 tablespoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Work in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add liquid gradually, mixing with knife 
to soft dough that' can be dropped from spoon without 
spreading. Drop by spoonfuls on well-greased pans, one- 
half inch apart. Bake eight minutes in hot oven. 

Rocks 

Use recipe for Drop Biscuit. Before baking, brush with 
milk, thjen sprinkle generously with granulated sugar and 
cinnamon. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 

4J cups milk or milk 8 tablespoons baking 

and water powder 

I cup shortening 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together, then cut 
or rub in shortening. Add milk gradually, mixing with 
knife to as soft a dough as can be handled. Flour center 
of board generously, drop dough on it, pat it with well- 
floured hands until it is floured all over, then pat or roll 
to three- fourths inch thickness. Cut in rounds, place close 
together in well-greased pans, bake from fifteen to twenty 
minutes in hot oven. Time of baking depends upon size 
and thickness. All ingredients should be cold. Handle as 
little and as lightly as possible, and avoid working in more 
flour. 



30 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Entire Wheat Biscuit (Sour Milk) 



3 quarts entire wheat 


4i cups sour milk 


flour 


4 tablespoons baking 


I cup shortening 


powder 


2 tablespoons salt 


2l teaspoons soda 


1 cup 


sugar 



The milk should be slightly thickened, but if very thick 
and sour, dilute with a little water or sweet milk. Mix 
and sift dry ingredients together, rub in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add milk, mixingwith knife to soft dough. 
It should be as soft as can be handled ; if too stiff, add a 
little sweet milk. Roll out from one-half to one inch in 
thickness, according to taste, cut in rounds, place close 
together in well-greased pans, bake in hot oven from ten 
to twenty minutes. 

Entire Wheat Biscuit (Sweet Milk) 

Use recipe for Entire Wheat Biscuit with sour milk, 
using sweet milk instead of sour, omitting soda, and using 
eight tablespoons baking powder. 

Cinnamon Rolls 

3 quarts flour 2 tablespoons salt 

4-J cups milk or milk and 8 tablespoons baking 
water mixed powder 

f cup shortening 

Mix as for baking powder biscuit. Roll to one-fourth 
inch thickness, brush generously with melted butter, spread 
with three cups brown sugar mixed with three tablespoons 
cinnamon. Roll up like jelly roll, cut in three- fourths inch 



QUICK DOUGHS 3 1 

pieces, place pieces close together in well-greased pans, 
flat side down. Bake fifteen to twenty minutes in hot 
oven. 

Doughnuts (Sweet Milk) 

2 cups sugar 4 teaspoons cream of tartar 

5 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons soda 

4 eggs -J teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups milk ^ teaspoon nutmeg 

3 teaspoons salt Flour to roll 

Beat eggs, add sugar, melted butter, milk, and four 
cups flour which has been sifted with dry ingredients, 
then enough more flour to handle, keeping dough as soft 
as possible. Roll only a small part at a time, and be care- 
ful not to work in more flour. Do not knead dough more 
than absolutely necessary. Roll about three-fourths inch 
thick, cut, fry in deep fat, drain on brown paper. Roll 
in granulated or powdered sugar while still warm. 



Doughnuts (Sour Milk) 

2 cups sugar 3 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons butter i teaspoon soda 

4 eggs 2 tablespoons baking 

■| teaspoon nutmeg powder 

•J teaspoon cinnamon 2 cups sour milk 

Flour to roll 

Mix and fry as Doughnuts with sweet milk. These 
recipes make about seventy-five doughnuts of medium 
size. 



32 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Rye Drop Cakes 

3 eggs 3 teaspoons soda 

I cup sugar 3 cups rye flour 

3 cups sour milk 3 cups flour 

i^ teaspoons salt 

Sift dry ingredients together; add milk and well-beaten 
eggs, and beat well. Drop by teaspoonfuls into hot fat, 
fry to a golden brown, drain on brown paper. Serve with 
maple syrup. 

Fritter Batter 

5^ cups flour I teaspoon salt 

2| tablespoons baking 2| cups milk 

powder 4 eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk gradually and 
eggs well beaten. 

Apple Fritters 

Pare, core, and cut eight tart apples in eighths, then cut 
eighths in slices, and stir into Fritter Batter. Drop by 
spoonfuls into hot fat, fry until brown, drain, and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Serve hot. 

Fresh peaches or pears may be used in same way. 
Canned fruits may be used after draining off syrup. 

Rice Fritters 

3 cups cooked rice 6 eggs 

I -J quarts flour 3 tablespoons baking 

3 cups milk powder 

3 teaspoons salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add cereal, milk, and eggs 
well beaten. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat, fry till 



QUICK DOUGHS 33 

brown, and drain on brown paper. Serve with meats or 
with sweet sauce for dessert. 



Hominy Fritters 

I -J quarts cooked hominy 6 eggs 
I J quarts flour 2 tablespoons baking 

3 cups milk powder 

3 teaspoons salt 

Mix hominy with milk until smooth, adding milk a little 
at a time. Then add flour which has been sifted with dry 
ingredients and well-beaten eggs. Drop by small spoon- 
fuls into hot fat, fry till brown. If batter is too soft, 
add a little more flour. Serve with meats, or dust with 
powdered sugar and serve with liquid sauce for dessert. 

Hygienic or Dry Toast 

Cut stale bread in half slices, as thin as can be handled 
without breaking. Toast quickly to a uniform golden 
brown on each side, in broiler or over coals. It must be 
watched very closely to prevent burning, and any burned 
parts should be scraped off with a sharp knife. Put in 
warm (not hot) oven until well dried throughout. The 
Aladdin oven is best for this purpose. If gas oven is used, 
heat oven moderately, then turn off gas. Toast may be 
buttered, if desired, before sending to table. Keep hot. 

Brown Toast 

Cut stale Graham or oatmeal bread in thin half slices ; 
place on edge, in rows, in dripping pans, put in warm 
(not hot) oven until well dried. The more slowly it dries, 



34 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

the better it is. This toast is not buttered before sending 
to table. Moist or close-grained bread is not suitable for 
this toast. 

Crumbs 

Crusts and broken pieces of bread not suitable for 
croutons should be dried. With sharp knife cut off any 
dark brown or burned parts, then cut or break into small 
pieces and dry without browning. These dried pieces may 
be used for bread puddings, scalloped cheese, stuffing, etc., 
allowing one cup of small dried pieces as the equivalent 
of one cup of stale crumbs. To dry these pieces, place in 
dripping pan and put into slow oven that will dry with- 
out browning them, or keep in warming oven until dry. 
When perfectly dry, they can be put through meat chopper, 
if fine crumbs are wanted. 

Keep crumbs in one receptacle and small pieces in 
another. Use fine dried crumbs for croquettes, coarse 
crumbs for stuffing. 

Buttered Crumbs 

Melt one-half cup butter over hot water, add one quart 
stale, undried crumbs, and stir until well mixed. Use 
instead of dried crumbs for scalloped dishes. 



Croutons 

Use stale bread, utilizing broken slices, ends of loaves, 
etc., for this purpose. Cut into half-inch dice, toast in 
moderate oven until a uniform golden brown. Serve with 
soup. 



QUICK DOUGHS 35 

German or French Toast 

12 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

4 cups milk -J cup sugar 

Beat eggs, add salt, sugar, and milk. Soak slices of 
stale bread in mixture until soft. Cook on hot, well- 
buttered griddle; brown one side, turn and brown other 
side. Be very careful not to burn toast. This quantity is 
sufficient for fifty or sixty large half slices. Serve for 
breakfast or luncheon with marmalade, jelly, or syrup. 

Cream Toast 

Make four quarts of White Sauce II. Make one hun- 
dred half slices of toast. The bread should be well browned 
and quite dry, but never burned. If it is burned, scrape 
off that part with sharp knife. Dip toast in hot water, 
arrange on hot platters, pour White Sauce over it, being 
careful to have each slice well covered. 

If there is time, a better way is to dip toast in cold water,, 
then reheat in oven before arranging on platters. Cold 
water prevents the slight sogginess which hot water gives. 
If bread is very tender and flaky, dipping in water may 
be omitted entirely. 

Serve with Orange Marmalade, Baked Bananas, or 
Baked Apples. 

Milk Toast 

Heat five quarts milk in double boiler, season with one 
cup butter, four teaspoons or more salt. Make one hun- 
dred half slices of nicely browned and well-dried toast. 
Arrange in deep dishes, pour hot milk over toast, cover, 
and send to table at once. The butter and one pint of milk 
may be omitted and a pint of heavy cream used instead. 
Serve with Grape Jelly. 



36 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Tomato Cream Toast 

4 quarts stewed tomatoes -J cup sugar 

if cups butter i tablespoon salt 

i|- cups flour I teaspoon paprika 

Put tomatoes through strainer; heat to boiling point. 
Melt butter in inner part of large double boiler ; when hot, 
stir in flour. When smooth, add hot tomato, stir well, and 
let cook from twenty to thirty minutes in double boiler. 
Season ; serve on well-toasted bread which has been dipped 
in water. If desired, one- fourth additional cup of flour 
may be used for thickening, and just before serving a pint 
of thick cream added. This quantity of sauce is sufficient 
for fifty slices or one hundred half slices toast. 

Baked Tomato Toast 

Make sauce and toast as above. Arrange layers of toast 
in buttered enamel or earthen baking dishes, alternating 
with tomato sauce. Pour remainder of sauce over top, 
cover dishes, and put in oven for ten minutes. Send to 
tables in dishes. 

Oysters and Celery on Toast 

3 quarts oysters 2 quarts or more milk 

3 quarts celery 2 cups butter 

2 quarts water 2 cups flour 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut celery in inch pieces, add water and cook one hour, 
or until soft; drain well. 

Melt butter, add flour, stir till smooth ; add water in 
which celery was cooked, and enough milk to make four 



QUICK DOUGHS 37 

quarts liquid; stir till smooth, add celery, cook thirty 
minutes in double boiler. Season to taste. 

Pick over oysters, removing any bits of shell ; wash and 
drain. Add to sauce and cook until oysters are plump 
and gills curled. Serve on well-toasted bread which has 
been dipped in salted water. 

Cinnamon Toast 

Toast half slices of stale white bread to a uniform 
golden brown ; sprinkle with mixture of granulated sugar 
and cinnamon, reheat, and serve at once. 

Savory Toast 

5 or 6 cans tomato soup 2j tablespoons salt 
2 quarts water 4 tablespoons butter 

I cup chopped onion 8 eggs 

5 tablespoons flour 3 tablespoons French 

I teaspoon cayenne mustard 

I pound cheese 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft and yellow, add 
flour mixed with salt and cayenne, and stir until smooth. 
Add hot tomato and water, French mustard, and grated 
cheese, and cook in double boiler until smooth and thick- 
ened slightly, then add to well-beaten eggs, stirring con- 
stantly, and cook in double boiler until thickened. Serve 
on moistened half slices of toast. 



CEREALS 

Methods of Cooking 
In double boiler: 

Have the outside of the double boiler a little more than 
half full of boiling water. Put into the inside part the 
required amount of boiling water and the salt. Place the 
inside of double boiler directly on the stove, and as soon 
as the water boils hard stir in the cereal slowly, trying 
not to stop the boiling of the water. Boil five minutes, or 
less, if the cereal thickens so much that there is danger 
of its sticking to the bottom of the boiler. If a flaked 
cereal, stir with a fork to avoid breaking flakes. If a 
granulated cereal, use a wooden or heavy iron spoon. 
When it has boiled sufficiently, put the boiler into outside 
part for the remainder of the required time. 
In fireless cooker: 

Measure the required amount of water into the fireless 
cooker kettle. When boiling, add salt, stir in the cereal 
slowly, boil one minute, or until slightly thickened ; cover, 
place in the cooker, using one radiator. If cereal is for 
breakfast, prepare the night before and leave in cooker all 
night. The coarse cereals should always be cooked at least 
four hours. 

To heat the radiator : Place on stove or range, with the 
gas turned low at first, so as to heat gradually. As soon 
as hissing hot, place in proper compartment, put in the 
tightly-covered kettle, and fasten down cover. 

38 



CEREALS 



39 



Table for Cooking Cereals 



Kind Q 


UANTITY 


Water 


Salt 


Time 




Quarts 


Quarts 


Tablespoons 




Rolled Oats 


2i 


5 


3 


I hour 


Quaker Rolled Oats 


2i 


5 


3 


I hour 


Pettijohn's 


3i 


5 


4 


45 minutes 


Wheatena 










Wheat Meal 










Farina 


>i4 


6 


2 


I hour 


Cream of Wheat 










Malt Breakfast Food 










Rice 


2 


6 


2 


45 minutes 


Hominy- 


14 


6 


2 


2 hours 


Cracked Wheat ^ 










Corn Meal I 


14 


6 


2 


3 to 4 hours 


Scotch Oatmeal 











Methods of Serving 

Serve plain with sugar and cream or milk. In hot 
weather, cereal may be molded and served cold. 

Serve with fruit, such as baked apples, sliced bananas, 
fresh or stewed peaches ; stewed prunes, raisins, or figs ; 
or dates, washed, stoned, and cut in pieces. 

Serve with chopped English walnuts sprinkled over the 
top of each serving. 



Fried Mushes 

Corn meal, oatmeal, hominy, or other mushes left from 
breakfast, may be packed in greased pans of any desired 
shape, to mold for frying. If cooked expressly to fry, use 
less water in cooking. 



40 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut molded cereal in one-third inch slices, dip them in 
flour, and saute. Be very careful not to burn them. If 
less water is used in cooking, it is not necessary to dip 
slices in flour. Serve with maple or caramel syrup. 

Boiled Rice 

2 quarts rice 14 quarts water 

6 tablespoons salt 

Pick over and wash rice thoroughly. Add it gradually 
to boiling salted water, boil thirty minutes, or until soft, 
but be sure not to overcook. Drain rice in coarse strainer, 
rinse with hot water, turn lightly and carefully into dishes 
as fast as drained. Cover with cheesecloth and keep hot 
on stove or in oven. Save rice water for soup making. 

Creeimed Rice 

I J quarts rice 2 quarts milk 

f cup butter 2 teaspoons salt 

f cup flour -J teaspoon paprika 

Cook as for Boiled Rice. Melt butter, add flour, stir 
until smooth, add hot milk, stirring hard until free from 
lumps. Cook thirty minutes in double boiler, stirring 
occasionally ; add salt and pepper, stir in rice carefully, 
serve as soon as well heated. Cold boiled rice may be 
utilized in this way. Serve as vegetable or luncheon dish. 

Spanish Rice 

5 cups rice I sweet red pepper 

I J pounds salt pork 2 small green peppers 

2 medium onions 2 quarts strained tomato. 

Salt to taste or part stock 



CEREALS - 41 

Wash rice in cold water, rubbing grains between the 
hands until water is clear. Add rice slowly to ten quarts 
boiling water, parboil ten minutes, drain. 

Chop salt pork, cook in oven in frying pan until fat is 
tried out, but do not let it get brown. Add chopped onion 
and seeded and chopped peppers, and fry for a few 
minutes, or till slightly yellowed. Put all ingredients into 
double boiler, add strained tomato, and cook thirty minutes, 
or until rice is soft, but not mushy. 

Curried Rice 

I J quarts rice 2 tablespoons curry powder 

i^ cups butter 2 tablespoons or more salt 

I J cups finely-chopped 2 quarts boiling water 

onion 2| quarts hot milk 

Heat milk in large double boiler. Cook onion in butter 
until soft and light yellow, add well-washed rice, and stir 
until butter is absorbed ; add curry, salt, and boiling water. 
Cook over fire for five minutes, then turn into double 
boiler with hot milk and cook thirty minutes, or until rice 
is soft, but not broken. Serve in border, with green peas 
in center. This is a good luncheon dish. 

Rice with Tomato 

To six quarts Boiled Rice add two quarts Plain Tomato 
Sauce. Mix lightly with a fork, so as not to mash the 
grains. Serve as a vegetable. 

Rice with Cheese 

Mix Boiled Rice lightly with grated cheese, pile in dish, 
sp'inkle with grated cheese. Serve as a vegetable. 



42 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Turkish Pilaf 

3 quarts tomato ij quarts rice 

4 onions 2j tablespoons salt 
8 sprigs parsley 2 cups butter 

12 peppercorns J teaspoon pepper 

1 6 cloves I quart stock or water 

Cook first five ingredients together five minutes, strain ; 
there should be three quarts. Wash rice, parboil five 
minutes, drain. Put into double boiler, add tomato, stock, 
salt, pepper, and butter in small bits. Cook forty-five 
minutes, or until rice is soft. Do not stir. Serve as a 
border for Curry of Mutton. 

Gnocchi 

4 quarts milk i pound or more of 

2 cups butter English dairy cheese 

2 cups flour Cold cereal 

Make a White Sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, 
following directions for White Sauces. Season with four 
teaspoons salt and add to it part of the grated cheese. 
Mold cereal in very small individual molds, or cut it in 
small pieces ; arrange in earthen or enamel baking dishes ; 
they should not be more than half full. Pour sauce over 
cereal, sprinkle with cheese, bake about twenty minutes. 
Serve for luncheon. 

Baked Hominy 

I quart hominy 5 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts milk 8 eggs 

Heat milk in double boiler; when scalding hot add 
hominy, having washed it in several waters. Stir for a 



CEREALS 43 

few minutes, then let it cook for one or two hours. When 
lukewarm, add well-beaten eggs and salt. Beat vigorously, 
turn into buttered baking dishes, and bake twenty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. Serve as a vegetable or as a 
luncheon dish. 

Baltimore Samp 

I -J quarts samp 2 J quarts milk 

I cup butter 2-J teaspoons salt 

I cup flour 4 or 5 cups grated cheese 

Wash samp well, soak all night in six quarts water, then 
bring to boiling point and cook six or eight hours in fire- 
less cooker. The samp should be quite thick when done. 
Make white sauce of butter, flour, milk, and salt, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Add cheese, stirring 
sauce until cheese is melted, then add samp. Serve as a 
vesretable or as a luncheon dish. 



'fc> 



Boiled Macaroni 

Break macaroni in inch pieces. For two quarts of 
macaroni have ten quarts or more boiling water, to which 
five tablespoons salt have been added. Put in macaroni 
and boil for thirty minutes, or until soft ; drain in colander, 
pour over it cold water to prevent pieces adhering, drain, 
and it is ready for use in any of the following recipes. 
Macaroni is much cheaper when purchased in twenty-five 
or fifty-pound boxes, instead of in pound packages. 

Creamed Macaroni 

2 quarts macaroni 4 teaspoons salt 

i^ cups butter -J teaspoon paprika 

I-J cups flour 4 quarts milk 



44 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Boil macaroni as above. Make a white sauce of the 
butter, flour, milk, and seasonings, following directions 
for White Sauces. Reheat macaroni in sauce, keeping it 
over hot water while it heats. Serve as a vegetable or as 
a luncheon dish. 

Macaroni with Cheese 

2 quarts macaroni 4 teaspoons salt 

broken in pieces i teaspoon paprika 

I J cups butter ^ 4 quarts milk 

I -J cups flour 6 cups chopped cheese ^ 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Make a white sauce of 
the butter, flour, milk, and seasonings, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Dissolve chopped or grated cheese 
in sauce. Put macaroni in baking dishes, pour over the 
sauce, lifting macaroni with fork to distribute it evenly. 
Cover with thin layer of buttered crumbs, using three cups 
stale crumbs and one-half cup butter. Do not use dried 
crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



Macaroni with Peanut Butter 

2 quarts macaroni 2-J cups peanut butter or 

4 quarts White Sauce I 2 one-and-one-half lb. jars 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Dissolve peanut butter 
in sauce while cooking in double boiler. Put macaroni in 
baking dishes, pour over the sauce, lifting macaroni with 
fork, in order to distribute it evenly. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake until crumbs are brown. See Buttered 
Crumbs. 



CEREALS 45 

Italian Macaroni 

2 quarts macaroni 2 cups chopped mild green 

4 tablespoons salt pepper 

I J cups bacon fat 2-| cups chopped onion 

I J cups flour 4 quarts strained tomato 

I pound cheese, if desired 

Cook as for Boiled Macaroni. Cook onion and pepper 
in bacon fat until soft, but not brown. Add flour, stir until 
smooth, add hot tomato, and stir until it boils. Add salt 
and macaroni, reheat over hot water to prevent burning, 
and serve at once. 

Or put macaroni into earthen or enamel baking dishes, 
sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake until cheese is melted 
and slightly browned. 



Creole Spaghetti 

I -J quarts spaghetti I tablespoon salt 

3 quarts canned tomato l^ cups butter 

3 cups chopped onion f cup flour 

6 pounds Hamburg steak 3 cups grated cheese 

Cook spaghetti as for Boiled Macaroni. Strain tomato 
and bring to boiling point. Slightly brown onion in butter, 
add flour and hot tomato, stirring constantly until smooth 
and boiled; or turn into double boiler and cook thirty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir steak in hot frying 
pan until slightly brown, then turn into sauce, add spa- 
ghetti and cheese. The cheese may be omitted. 



46 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Macaroni k la Milanaise 

2 quarts macaroni broken . 5 bay leaves 

in inch pieces 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts corned beef or 2 quarts brown stock 

ham in small pieces ij cups butter 

2 quarts strained tomato I onion chopped fine 

3 teaspoons peppercorns i-J cups flour 

Cook macaroni as in Boiled Macaroni. Cook tomatoes, 
peppercorns, bay leaves, and sugar together ten minutes ; 
strain. Melt butter, add onion, cook until soft, then stir 
in flour. Add stock and tomato, stirring all the time until 
it boils. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Water may 
be used instead of stock by dissolving in it enough beef 
extract to flavor it delicately. Put meat and macaroni 
into baking dishes, pour over the sauce, and bake twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauoe 

Reheat Boiled Macaroni in Plain or Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce, allowing one quart sauce to three quarts 
cooked macaroni. 

Macaroni with Chicken 

4 quarts chicken stock 2 quarts macaroni 

i^ cups butter i quart cold chicken or 

i^ cups flour veal 

Salt to taste Grated cheese 

J teaspoon pepper 

Cook macaroni as for Boiled Macaroni. Cut chicken in 
small dice. Melt butter, add flour, stir ; add hot stock, stir 



CEREALS 47 

until smooth and thickened. Add macaroni and chicken, 
turn into baking dishes, cover with buttered crumbs, and 
bake twenty minutes, or until brown. The proportion of 
macaroni and chicken may be varied to suit taste or con- 
venience. Pass grated cheese with it if desired. 



Macaroni w^ith Eggs 

24 hard-cooked eggs i J cups butter 

I J quarts macaroni ij cups flour 

3 cups grated cheese 4 teaspoons salt 

4 quarts milk Paprika to taste 

Cook macaroni as for Boiled Macaroni. Make a white 
sauce of the butter, flour, milk, and seasonings. Cut eggs 
in slices. Put layer of macaroni in bottom of buttered 
baking dishes, then sliced eggs, then another layer of 
macaroni, and over the whole pour white sauce in which 
cheese has been dissolved. Cover with buttered crumbs, 
using three cups soft, stale crumbs and one-half cup butter. 



Noodles v^^ith Cheese 

4 quarts noodles Salt to taste 

I or more pounds cheese -J teaspoon pepper 

f cup butter i teaspoon paprika 

Cook noodles in plenty of salted water until soft, drain. 
Melt butter, add noodles, grated cheese, and seasonings. 
Cook slowly on back of range, or with gas turned low, 
until cheese is melted and butter absorbed. Serve as a 
Tegetable or luncheon dish. Noodles may be purchased 
ready for use, or made as follows : 



48 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Noodles 

Beat four eggs slightly, add two teaspoons salt, and 
flour to make a stiff dough. Knead on slightly-floured 
board, roll as thin as paper, cover with towel, and let stand 
for twenty minutes. Cut in fancy shapes ; or roll the sheet 
of dough like jelly roll, and cut in thin slices, then unroll. 
Dry, and it is ready for use. 



BEVERAGES 

General Directions 

Wash and scald coffee and tea bags in clear water, dry- 
in the open air if possible. They should be renewed often. 

Scald coffee and tea pots, and cheesecloth squares or 
bags, before using. Boil pots with sal soda water once 
in two weeks or oftener. 

Wash eggs before using and save the shells for settling 
coffee. 

Breakfast Coffee 

Put four cups coffee in cheesecloth square or bag, and 
tie so as to leave plenty of room for coffee to swell. Put 
coffee, twelve or more crushed egg shells, and nine quarts 
cold water in coffee boiler ; let stand over night. In morn- 
ing bring slowly to a boil, boil from three to five minutes, 
turn in one cup cold water, and let stand until clear. 
Strain into coffee pots and bring again to boiling point 
before serving. Serve with cream or hot, rich milk. 

After-Dinner Coffee 

4j cups coffee 2 cups cold water 

3 eggs 4^ quarts boiling water 

Mix slightly beaten egg, crushed shell, and cold water 
with coffee, turn into coffee boiler, add boiling water, and 
stir thoroughly. Boil three to five minutes. Pour some 
into a cup to remove grounds from spout ; repeat if neces- 
sary. Add remaining cold water, let stand on back of 

49 



A 



50 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

range until perfectly clear. Strain into coffee pots, bring 
again to boiling .point, and serve at once. Serve in after- 
dinner coffee cups, with or without cut sugar. 

If very strong coffee is desired, use six cups coffee and 
four eggs. 

Tea I 

Put two tablespoons tea in scalded pot, pour on two 
quarts boiling water. Steep three to five minutes, strain, 
and serve. 

Tea II 

f cup tea 9 quarts boiling water 

Put tea in a square or bag of cheesecloth, tied so as to 
leave room for tea to swell. Put into scalded urn or pot, 
add boiling water, steep five or six minutes, remove bag. 
Or have water boiling in pot, immerse bag in boiling water, 
and let steep on back of range, as above. 

Iced Tea 

I J cups tea 6 quarts boiling water 

8 quarts cold water Ice 

Follow recipe for Tea II, letting tea steep six to eight 
minutes. Cool, add cold water, and serve from pitchers 
half full of ice. Serve with lemon. 

Breakfast Cocoa 

I cup cocoa si quarts boiling water 

I pint lukewarm water 4 quarts hot milk 
Mix cocoa and lukewarm water until smooth, pour on 
boiling water, boil five minutes. Add to hot milk in double 
boiler, beat with Dover egg beater until foamy, to prevent 
scum forming, cook twenty to thirty minutes. 



BEVERAGES 5 I 

Left-over cocoa may be used in place of fresh liquid. 
Reheat it in double boiler with milk, and for each pint use 
one tablespoon less cocoa. 



^ Reception Cocoa 

Xi'V i| cups cocoa J teaspoon salt .> , -^f, 

^ {> 2 cups sugar i quart boiling water ' 

»( ^ I pint lukewarm water 8 quarts hot milk \ ^ "'i^-^ 

Scald milk. Mix cocoa, sugar, salt, and lukewarm 
water ; add boiling water and boil five minutes. Pour into 
hot milk, beat until foam/, keep hot in double boiler until 
ready to serve. Serve with whipped cream, using one 
quart heavy cream diluted with one cup milk, and flavored 
with one tablespoon sugar and three-fourths teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Reception Chocolate 

1 pound chocolate ij pounds sugar 

2 quarts boiling water 8 quarts hot milk 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add boiling water, stir 
until smooth. Boil ten minutes, or cook one hour in double 
boiler, add sugar and one-fourth teaspoon salt. Turn into 
hot milk, beat until foamy, and serve with whipped cream. 

Lemonade 

30 to 36 lemons or 2 pounds sugar 

I J quarts lemon juice 9 quarts water 

Mix sugar and lemon juice, add cold water, and stir 
until dissolved. Put in a large piece of ice, and let stand 
thirty or forty minutes before serving. 



52 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fruit Punch 

1 pint grated pineapple i pint strawberry juice 

2 pounds sugar 8 lemons 

3 cups boiling water 6 oranges 

I pint hot tea 7 quarts cold water 

'Cook pineapple, sugar, and boiling water together fifteen 
minutes, add tea and strain. When cold add fruit juice 
and cold water, adding ice a short time before serving. 
Maraschino or candied cherries, strawberries, or mint 
leaves may be used as garnish. This recipe makes about 
ten quarts. 



IMl 



EGGS 

Soft-Cooked Eggs 

Have a large kettle of boiling water: three quarts for 
each dozen eggs and one extra quart for the kettle. Put 
eggs into an egg basket, let basket down into boiling water, 
cover closely, and turn off gas, or remove to back of range 
to prevent boiling, but keep water at a temperature of 
175° if possible. Cook from six to eight minutes if liked 
soft, forty to forty-five minutes if wanted hard. If several 
dozen eggs are to be cooked at once, it is sometimes neces- 
sary to use two smaller kettles and baskets, instead of one 
large one. If both hard and soft eggs are wanted at same 
time, it is easier to cook them in separate utensils. Hard- 
cooked eggs which are to be used in preparing other dishes 
should be plunged at once into cold water, when done, to 
prevent discoloration. 

Poached Eggs 

Have a large, shallow pan two-thirds full of boiling 
salted water, allowing one tablespoon salt to two quarts 
water. Break eggs into shallow dish and slip carefully 
into water, which should not be allowed to boil while eggs 
are cooking. The eggs should be covered with water. 
Cook until white is firm and there is a film over top ; 
remove with skimmer to pieces of buttered toast. One or 
two tablespoons of vinegar in the water helps to prevent 
the spreading of the whites. Egg poachers may be used 
instead of the shallow pans. 

53 



54 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Baked Eggs 

Butter egg shirrers or ramekins. Break an egg into 
each, season with salt and pepper, and bake in moderate 
oven until whites are firm. The dishes may be lined with 
grated cheese or chopped ham before putting in eggs. Or 
a spoonful of hot tomato sauce may be put over each egg 
before serving. 

Fried Eggs 

Put enough melted bacon or ham fat in frying pans to 
cover bottom to depth of half an inch or more. Break 
eggs into saucer or other shallow dish, slip into hot fat, 
dipping it over them until white is firm and there is a 
film over top. Keep fat at as low a temperature as possible. 
Remove with skimmer to platter. Serve alone or with, 
bacon or ham. 



Poached Eggs with Minced Tongue 

3 quarts soup stock J cup minced onion 

I J cups butter 4 tablespoons tomato 
I J cups flour catsup 

2 or 3 quarts minced Salt and pepper to taste 

tongue Poached eggs 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft, turn in flour, and 
stir till smooth ; add stock and seasonings and stir until 
thickened. If stock is not very rich, add a little kitchen 
bouquet. Reheat minced tongue in this sauce. Arrange 
slices of toast on hot platters, pour over these the hot 
mixture, put a poached egg on each piece of toast, and 
serve at once. 



EGGS 55 

Poached Eggs with Cream Toast 

3 quarts rich milk 3 teaspoons salt 

I J cups butter Poached eggs 

ij cups flour Toast 

Make a sauce of first four ingredients, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Arrange moistened toast on hot 
platters, pour over it the sauce, place poached egg on each 
piece of toast. Serve at once. 

Cream Omelet 

2 cups butter 5 teaspoons salt 

2 cups flour J teaspoon pepper 

3 quarts milk 24 eggs 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. When cool, add salt 
and well-beaten yolks, then fold in the whites, which have 
been beaten until stiff. Put into six earthen or enamel 
baking dishes and cook about forty-five minutes in moder- 
ate oven. The omelet should be firm throughout and 
golden brown on top. Serve at once in the baking dishes. 

Bread Omelet 

48 eggs 6 teaspoons salt 

5 cups milk I teaspoon pepper 

5 cups stale bread crumbs J cup butter 

Use broken pieces and crusts of stale bread, cutting off 
any brown or burned parts of crusts. Soak over night in 
milk. In morning add beaten yolks and seasonings ; cut 
and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. Cook and serve as Cream 
Omelet. 



56 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Spanish Omelet 

Make Cream, Bread, or Plain Omelet, and serve with 
it Spanish Sauce. Spanish Sauce: Cook together, very 
slowly, one cup finely-chopped bacon, three-fourths cup 
each of finely-chopped onion and mild green pepper, until 
onion is soft and yellow. Add two quarts tomatoes and 
cook until moisture has nearly evaporated. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper. If desired, five tablespoons sHced 
mushrooms may also be added. 

Rice Omelet 

3 quarts cooked rice 3 tablespoons salt 

3 quarts warm milk ^ teaspoon pepper 
f cup melted butter 4 dozen eggs 

Add melted butter, seasonings, and warm milk to rice ; 
mix well and add well-beaten eggs. Cook and serve as 
Cream Omelet. 

Eggs Scrambled with Tomato 

4 dozen eggs i teaspoon paprika 
3 quarts strained tomato 2 cups butter 

5 tablespoons sugar -J cup minced onion 

4 teaspoons salt 

Fry butter and onion three minutes, add tomatoes and 
sugar, and simmer five minutes. Put slightly-beaten eggs 
in double boiler, add tomato. Cook over hot water until 
of creamy consistency, stirring and scraping from bottom 
of kettle as it thickens. It will probably require from thirty 
to thirty-five minutes. If ready too soon, keep over water 
which is below boiling point. 



EGGS 57 

Scrambled Eggs 

2 quarts milk i cup butter 

4 dozen eggs 2| tablespoons salt 

Heat milk and butter in double boiler. When hot, add 
well-beaten eggs and salt, and cook until it thickens, stir- 
ring and scraping the thickened mixture from the bottom 
and sides as fast as it forms. It requires from twenty-five 
to thirty minutes for it to thicken to a creamy consistency. 
If cooked too long, it will whey. Minced ham, shredded 
dried beef, or minced parsley may be added just before 
serving. 

Creamed Eggs 

4 quarts milk 4 teaspoons salt 

2 cups butter 48 hard-cooked eggs 

2 cups flour J teaspoon pepper 

Make a white sauce of the first three ingredients, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. Add salt and chopped 
whites to the sauce. Toast half slices of white bread, dip 
in salted water, put on platter, and cover with sauce. 
Strain yolks over the top, using a coarse strainer or a 
potato ricer. Put toast in oven a few minutes to reheat. 
Chopped ham may be added to sauce if desired. 

Curried Eggs 

4 quarts milk ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 cups butter 5 or more teaspoons curry 

2 cups flour 48 hard-cooked eggs cut 
4 teaspoons salt in slices 

Make a white sauce of the first three ingredients. Mix 
salt, pepper, and curry together and add to sauce. Pile 



58 RECIPES AXD MENUS FOR FIFTY 

sliced eggs in center of platters, put a border of boiled or 
steamed rice around outside, and pour sauce over eggs. 
Unless very hot, put in oven two or three minutes to re- 
heat. If desired, triangles of toasted bread, instead of 
rice, may be served around the eggs. 

Eggs Scalloped with Peas 

4 quarts milk J teaspoon pepper 

ij cups butter 36 hard-cooked eggs 
I J cups flour 4 quarts canned peas 

3 teaspoons salt 4 cups buttered crumbs 

Make a white sauce of the first five ingredients, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Drain peas and season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and sugar. Put a layer of peas 
in baking dishes, then a layer of sliced eggs, pour over the 
sauce, and cover with a thin layer of buttered crumbs. 
Bake twenty minutes. 



. SOUPS 

Clear soups contain chiefly the flavoring constituents; 
of the meat from which they are obtained. They are of 
very Httle nutritive value, but the extractives and gelatine 
which they contain promote the flow of gastric juice and 
so aid digestion. A "thick" or cream soup contains more 
nutriment ; therefore, choose a clear soup if a substantial 
meal is to follow, but if soup is to be the main dish, it 
should be a thick one. 

To Prepare Stock 

Allow two-thirds lean meat to one-third bone and fat,, 
wipe the meat with a cloth wrung out of cold water. Cut 
lean meat into one-inch pieces. Put the fat, bone, and 
two-thirds of the lean meat into a kettle, add cold water,, 
allowing one pint to each pound of meat, bone and fat. 
Let stand thirty to sixty minutes. Heat a frying pan hiss- 
ing hot, put in a little marrow or suet, to prevent sticking,, 
brown one-third of the meat, stirring often, that all parts 
of the surface may be seared. Add this brown meat to the 
first, rinsing out frying pan with a little water from the 
kettle. Heat gradually to the boiling point, and cook six 
or seven hours at a low temperature. 

Vegetables, spices, and salt should be added the last 
hour. Strain and cool quickly. The cake of fat which 
forms on the top of the stock should not be removed till 
the stock is used, as it excludes all air. To remove fat 
which forms, run a knife around the edge of the bowl^ 

59 



6o RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

then lift it out. The particles of fat remaining should be 
removed by passing a cloth wrung out of hot water around 
the edge of the receptacle and over top of the stock. 

How to Clear Soup Stock 

Remove fat from stock and put the quantity to be cleared 
in stew pan, allowing white and shell of one egg to two 
quarts of stock. Beat eggs slightly, break shell into small 
pieces, mix with one cup cold water, and add to stock. 
Place on front of range and stir constantly until boiling 
point is reached ; boil two minutes. Set back where it may 
simmer twenty minutes, remove scum and strain through 
double thickness of cheesecloth placed over a fine strainer. 

Soup Stock 

Take a five-pound soup bone and ten pounds or more 
of bones, trimmings, and pieces of meat from cooked 
roasts, steaks, chops, etc. Wash soup bone, cut burned 
parts from cooked meats, put into soup kettle with twelve 
quarts water, simmer six hours. Strain, cool, remove fat, 
and use as foundation for Vegetable, Noodle, or other 
soups requiring stock. 

Bouillon 

Make Soup Stock, using five pounds raw meat in addi- 
tion to that on soup bone. Simmer slowly six hours, add 
four teaspoons peppercorns, four tablespoons salt, one and 
one-half cups each of diced carrot, turnip, celery, and 
onion. Cook one hour, strain, cool, remove fat, and clarify. 

Turkey or Chicken Soup 

After serving roast turkey or chicken, remove any 
stuffing or pieces of white meat, break bones, and put into 



SOUPS 6 1 

stock kettle with leaves, roots, and outside pieces of celery 
and uncooked ends of wings or pieces of necks. For three 
or four large turkeys add three gallons cold water, cover, 
and simmer slowly two to four hours. If allowed to boil, 
the soup will be clouded and less delicate in flavor. 

Strain, remove fat, season with salt, pepper, and onion 
juice. Add white meat cut in half -inch pieces and three 
cups boiled rice. 

Vegetable Soup with Stock 

lo quarts stock " J teaspoon pepper 

1 cup each carrots, J tablespoon celery salt 

turnips, parsnips, | cup rice cooked in 

and cabbage i quart water 

J cup onion i quart stewed and strained 

2 quarts boiling water tomato 

Wash, pare, and chop vegetables, or put them through 
meat grinder ; cook in boiling water until soft. Wash and 
boil rice, then add rice and vegetables, with water in which 
they were cooked, to stock. Add tomato and seasonings ; 
serve very hot. 

Vegetable Soup without Stock 

I quart carrot 12 quarts water 
I quart turnip 3 cups butter 

ij quarts celery 6 tablespoons finely- 

4^ quarts potato chopped parsley 

6 onions Salt and pepper 

Wash and pare carrots and turnips ; cut in strips one 
inch long and one-fourth inch wide, or put through meat 
grinder. Wash, pare, and cut potatoes in small pieces. 



62 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cut onion in thin slices and celery in quarter-inch pieces. 
Measure vegetables after cutting ; mix all except potatoes, 
and cook ten minutes in butter, stirring constantly. Turn 
into soup kettle, add potatoes and water; cook one hour. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper, add parsley, and 
serve at once, boiling hot. 

Potato Soup 

8 pounds potatoes 6 tablespoons salt 

10 quarts hot milk 3 teaspoons celery salt 

2 quarts water or stock ij teaspoons pepper 

4 medium onions 2 cups butter 

4 tablespoons chopped i-J cups flour 

parsley -J teaspoon cayenne 

Cook potatoes and sliced onion in water or stock until 
•soft, then put through strainer without draining. Make 
a white sauce of the milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauces. Add sauce to potato and 
seasonings, bring to boiling point, sprinkle with parsley, 
serve. 

Celery Soup 

8 quarts celery 2 chopped onions 

5J quarts boiling water 2 cups butter 

7 quarts scalded milk 2| cups flour 

Salt to taste i teaspoon pepper 

Wash, scrape, and cut celery in half-inch pieces, cook 
with onion in boiling water until quite soft, rub through 
sieve. Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter, add flour, 
and when smooth stir into milk and let cook thirty minutes, 
stirring occasionally until perfectly smooth. Have celery 
mixture boiling, add milk, season, and serve with crackers 
or croutons. 



SOUPS 63 

Cream of Cabbage Soup 
6 pounds cabbage ij cups butter 

6 quarts boiling water ij cups flour 

6 quarts milk 5 or more tablespoons salt 

I teaspoon pepper 
Chop cabbage fine, add water and salt, cook until soft. 
Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauce. Just before serving, turn 
the two mixtures together, add pepper, more salt, if needed, 
and one-half cup butter. If water cooks away very much 
in boiling, add a little more. Serve with croutons or 
crackers. 







Corn 


Soup 






8 cans corn 




14 


cups 


butter 




3 quarts 


boiling 


water 


14 


cups 


flour 




7 quarts 


milk 




5 


or more tablespoons 


salt 


2 small onions 




I 


teaspoon pepper 





Chop onion fine, add water and corn, simmer twenty 
minutes, stirring often. Make a white sauce of the milk, 
flour, and butter, following directions for White Sauces. 
Just before serving, turn the two mixtures together, bring 
to boil, add seasonings, and serve. 

A Cream of Corn Soup may be made of this by rubbing 
corn mixture through sieve before adding it to the white 
sauce. Serve with a spoonful of popcorn or of whipped 
cream on top of each dish of soup. 

Cream of Green Pea Soup 
2 gallon cans peas 2 onions sliced 

7 tablespoons sugar ij cups butter 

5 quarts cold water ij cups flour 

5 quarts milk 3 or more tablespoons salt 

I teaspoon pepper 



64 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Drain peas, add sugar and cold water, and simmer until 
peas are very soft ; if water evaporates, add more. Rub 
through sieve, reheat, and thicken with butter and flour 
cooked together. Scald milk with onion, remove onion, 
and add milk to pea mixture. Season to taste, serve very- 
hot. 



Split Pea 


Soup 


2 quarts split, dried peas 


3 onions 


7 quarts cold water 


I cup butter 


3 quarts ham or corned 


I cup flour 


beef stock 


2 quarts hot milk 



Salt and pepper to taste 

Pick over peas, soak over night, drain. Cook water, 
stock, onion, and peas together slowly three or four hours, 
or imtil peas are very soft. Rub through sieve and thicken 
with flour and butter which have been rubbed together. 
Bring to boiling point, add seasonings and hot milk. 
Beans may be used in place of split peas. 





Lima B( 


san Soup 


if 


quarts dried Lima 


if cups butter 




beans 


I cup flour 


I 


cup chopped onion 


5 quarts milk 


6 


sprigs parsley 


Salt and paprika to taste 


6 


stalks celery 


4 or more teaspoons 


I 


cup chopped carrot 


Worcestershire sauce 


7 


quarts cold water 


I teaspoon pepper 



Soak beans over night, drain. Add water, onion, celery, 
parsley, and carrot, and cook slowly three or four hours ; 
rub through sieve. Melt butter, add flour and milk, and 
cook thirty minutes in double boiler. Add seasonings, 



SOUPS 65 

combine mixtures, bring to boiling point, serve. Pea beans, 
instead of Lima beans, may be used for this soup. 

Baked Bean Soup 

4 quarts cold Boston 2 quarts stewed and 

baked beans strained tomato 

9 quarts cold water f cup butter 

I cup sliced onion f cup flour 

12 stalks celery Salt and pepper to taste 

Cook beans, water, onion, and celery together slowly 
thirty minutes. Rub through a sieve, add strained tomato, 
thicken with butter and flour cooked together; season to 
taste with salt and pepper. 

Cream of Cheese Soup 

6 quarts chicken stock 6 cups grated cheese 
6 quarts milk f teaspoon soda 

i| cups butter i teaspoon paprika 

i^ cups flour Salt to taste 

Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, following 
directions for White Sauces. Add hot stock, soda, cheese, 
and seasonings. Serve as soon as cheese is melted. 



Tomato 


Soup 


2 gallon cans tomato 


6 tablespoons sugar 


6 quarts water 


I teaspoon soda 


2 teaspoons peppercorns 


I cup butter 


6 small bay leaves 


I J cups flour 


I teaspoon cloves 


Salt 


2 onions 


Pepper 



Cook together the first seven ingredients twenty minutes, 
strain, and add soda. Thicken with butter and flour 



(^ RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

cooked together, and season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Serve boiling hot. 



Cream o£ Tomato Soup 

6 quarts canned tomato 3 teaspoons soda 

I teaspoon peppercorns 6 quarts milk 

3 bay leaves i-J cups butter 

3 sprigs parsley i\ cups flour 

I large onion Salt 

6 tablespoons sugar Pepper 

Stew first six ingredients together for thirty minutes, 
strain, and add soda. Make a white sauce of milk, butter, 
and flour, cooking it thirty minutes in double boiler. Add 
hot strained tomato and seasonings, and serve at once. 

Oyster Stew 

8 quarts milk 2 cups butter 

6 to 8 quarts oysters i teaspoon pepper 

3J tablespoons salt Crackers 

Pick over oysters carefully, removing any bits of shell ; 
place in colander, pour over cold water, using six cups 
in all. Reserve oyster liquor, heat to boiling point, and 
strain through double cheesecloth. Heat milk in double 
boiler to scalding point, add oysters, and cook until oysters 
are plump and gills curled; add seasonings and oyster 
liquor, and pour at once into tureens. If desired, split 
crackers may be placed in bottom of tureens before turn- 
ing in stew. The oysters may be cooked in oyster liquor 
and added to milk just before serving, if preferred. 



SOUPS 67 

Potato Chowder 

5 quarts diced potatoes 3 quarts water 
I cup flour 2 pounds bacon 

I cup bacon fat . 2 cups chopped onion 

8 quarts milk 4 tablespoons chopped 

5 tablespoons salt parsley 

I teaspoon pepper 

Pare and cut potatoes in small pieces or half-inch dice. 
Cut bacon in half-inch cubes, and cook slowly until crisp 
and Hght brown. Skim out bacon and stir flour into one 
and one-fourth cups of the fat. Put potatoes, bacon, 
onion, water, salt, and pepper into large stew kettle, cover, 
and simmer twenty minutes, or until potatoes are soft. 
Make a white sauce of the milk, flour, and bacon fat, fol- 
lowing directions for White Sauces. Combine mixtures, 
add more seasonings if needed, put into tureens with split 
crackers in bottom, sprinkle parsley over top. Serve very 
hot. 

Corn Chowder 

5 quarts diced potatoes 5 cans corn 

5 slices salt pork -J cup flour 

5 medium-sized onions 6 tablespoons salt 

3 quarts boiling water i teaspoon pepper 

7 quarts milk f cup butter 

Cut pork in half -inch cubes, and cook slowly until light 
brown and crisp ; add onion and cook slowly five minutes. 
Put potatoes, pork cubes, onion, and boiling water into 
kettle, and cook until potatoes are soft. Stir flour into the 
fat which was tried out from pork, then add to milk which 
has been heated in double boiler ; cook twenty minutes. 
Add corn to potatoes, cook a few minutes, add milk, 
seasonings, and split crackers. 



68 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fish Chowder 

12 or more pounds cod 5 tablespoons salt 

or other white fish i teaspoon pepper 

5 quarts diced potatoes i cup butter 

5 sliced onions 5 quarts scalded milk 

5 slices salt pork 2J quarts boiling water 

2-J quarts cold water Crackers 

Have fish skinned, but head and tail left on. Cut off 
head and tail and remove fish from backbone. Cut fish 
in two-inch pieces. Put head, tail, and backbone broken in 
pieces into kettle with cold water, bring- slowly to boiling 
point, and simmer twenty minutes. Cut salt pork in half- 
inch cubes, cook slowly until yellow, add onion, and cook 
five minutes with gas turned low. Put potatoes, pork, 
onion, drippings, and boiling water into large kettle, boil 
five minutes, add fish and fish stock, and cook ten minutes. 
Add hot milk, salt to taste, pepper, butter, and crackers 
which have been soaked in cold milk or water. If cooked 
fish is used for chowder, do not put pieces of fish in until 
a few minutes before serving, for they will only need 
reheating. 

Clam Chowder 



4 


or 5 quarts clams 


I 


cup flour 


5 


quarts diced potatoes 


5 


tablespoons salt 


5 


slices fat salt pork 


li 


cups butter 


3 


cups chopped onion 


6 


quarts scalded milk 


3i 


quarts water 


I 


teaspoon pepper 



Wash and pick over clams, drain. Chop finely hard 
part of clams. Cut potatoes in three-fourths inch cubes. 
Cut pork in half -inch cubes and cook slowly with onion 
ten minutes. Cook potatoes, onion, pork, chopped clams, 



SOUPS 69 

salt, pepper, and water fifteen minutes ; add soft part of 
clams, cook three minutes. Make a white sauce of milk, 
butter, and flour. Combine mixtures and add crackers 
soaked in cold milk. If clam liquor is used, it should be 
heated, strained, and added just before serving. 

Bean Stew 

2 quarts kidney beans 4 quarts water 

I gallon tomatoes i cup butter 

1 quart celery 4 quarts diced potatoes 

2 cups onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Soak beans over night, drain. Cut celery in half-inch 
pieces, chop onion, strain tomatoes. Put first five ingredi- 
ents together into large stew kettle, bring to boiling point, 
then simmer slowly five or more hours. If stew is to be 
used for the midday meal, it would be well to let cook all 
night in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven. About forty- 
five minutes before serving, add potatoes, butter, and 
seasonings. 

Mexican Chili 

2 quarts red kidney beans i quart tomatoes 

4 pounds Hamburg steak 3 large chopped onions 

^ pound suet Salt and Chili powder 
8 or more quarts water to taste 

"Wash and soak beans for several hours, drain. Add five 
quarts water and cook slowly until soft. They may be 
cooked all night in fireless cooker or Aladdin oven. Cut 
suet in very small pieces, add steak and three quarts or 
more water, cook slowly three hours. When half done, 
add strained tomatoes and onion. Half an hour before 
serving add beans and seasonings. Serve with crackers 
and cucumber pickles. 



yO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Parsnip Stew 

3 or 4 pounds fresh raw lo quarts water 

or roast pork i8 medium-size parsnips 

^ pound salt pork 8 pounds potatoes 

6 medium onions Salt and pepper to taste 

Remove any burned parts from roast pork, add water, 
and cook slowly one hour, or until meat is tender ; strain 
liquor into large kettle, cut meat in small pieces. Cut salt 
pork in half-inch dice, add sliced onion, and cook slowly 
until pork is crisp and onion is yellow. Wash, peel, and 
cut parsnips in slices. If slices are very large, quarter 
them. Turn salt pork, onion, and parsnips into kettle with 
pork stock ; cook thirty minutes, add potatoes cut in small 
slices or pieces ; cook thirty minutes longer, or until vege- 
tables are quite soft. Mix three-fourths cup flour with 
cold water until free from lumps, stir into stew, boil three 
minutes. Add meat, and salt and pepper to taste. 



FISH 

Fish must be perfectly fresh ; the flesh should be firm, 
the gills red, and the eyes bright. Frozen fish may be 
kept a long time, but must be used at once when thawed, 
as it spoils more quickly than fresh fish. Do not keep fish 
in refrigerator with milk, butter, and such foods, on ac- 
count of the odor. Have an ice box or cold storage room 
for fish, meat, etc. In case there is no provision made for 
such foods, put fish in a tightly-covered tin receptacle 
before placing in refrigerator. 

Although fish are cleaned at market, additional clean- 
ing is usually necessary. Remove any scales by scraping 
slowly from tail toward head, holding knife nearly flat 
on fish. Rinse knife often in cold water. Remove with a 
sharp knife any clots of blood. Wipe fish thoroughly inside 
and out with a cloth wrung out of cold salted water. Do 
not put fish into water. 

To skin a fish: With a sharp knife cut off a narrow strip 
of skin the whole length of back, removing also the fins 
along the back. Insert a sharp-pointed knife under the 
skin near the gills, and loosen the skin carefully by work- 
ing the knife down toward the tail on one side, then turn 
fish and remove skin from other side. 

When fish are in season: Cod, haddock, halibut, floun- 
ders, bass, pickerel, lobster, and clams are in season at all 
times ; salmon and mackerel. May to September ; shad, 
January to June ; bluefish, May to October ; perch, pike, 
sturgeon, and crabs, all summer; whitefish and cusk in 
winter; swordfish, July to September; turbot, January 

71 



y2 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to March ; smelts, September to March ; oysters, Septem- 
ber to May. 

Cooking and serving of fish: Fish is sufficiently cooked 
when the flesh begins to separate from the bones. Over- 
boiling makes it soft and watery. Salt and vinegar or 
lemon juice are often added to the water in which fish 
is boiled ; the former improves the flavor, the latter keeps 
the flesh white. Fish should always be served with some- 
thing acid. This may be in a sauce, such as Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter or Hollandaise Sauce, or in a garnish of lemon or 
pickle, or in a vegetable accompanying the fish, as fresh 
cucumbers or a salad. Of the many garnishes for fish, the 
following are easily prepared : parsley, watercress, shreds 
of red or green pepper ; slices of lemon, plain or sprinkled 
with finely-chopped parsley ; hard-cooked eggs, tomatoes, 
cucumbers, stuffed olives, or sliced pickles. 

Boiled Fish 
Clean fish as directed. Place on rack of fish kettle, or 
tie in cheesecloth and drop in a large kettle half full of 
boiling water. Cover kettle and simmer gently the re- 
quired time, which varies with size and thickness of fish. 
See Time-table. Small cod, haddock, bass, cusk, and 
salmon are cooked whole; large fish, such as halibut, are 
cut in thick pieces. When done, place on platters, remove 
dark skin, garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and 
serve with Egg Sauce ; or garnish with parsley and eggs, 
and serve with Pickle Sauce. 

Steamed Fish 
Wrap fish in pieces of cheesecloth. Lay on plates in 
steamer, and cook until flesh separates from bone. Serve 
as Boiled Fish. 



FISH 73 

Broiled Fish 

Clean fish as directed, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and put in well-greased wire broiler. Slices of fish should 
be turned often while cooking ; whole fish should be first 
broiled on flesh side, then turned, and cooked on skin side 
long enough to brown and crisp the skin. Loosen fish on 
both sides, slip from broiler to hot platter. Spread white 
fish with Maitre d'Hotel Butter ; oily fish with plain butter 
and more salt if needed. Garnish as desired. 

Cod, haddock, bluefish, shad, cusk, or mackerel are split 
down the back and broiled whole, with or without the head 
and tail. Salmon, swordfish, and halibut are cut in inch 
slices for broiling. Smelts and other small fish are left 
whole. Cod and haddock are usually scrodded for broil- 
ing — that is, split down the back and boned. 

To Broil with Gas 

Clean six four-pound fish as directed, brush skin side 
of fish generously with pork drippings, sprinkle flesh 
side with salt and pepper. Grease thoroughly rack in 
broiling oven, lay fish on rack with skin side down. Cook 
twenty to thirty minutes, or until flakes begin to separate 
and flesh is delicately browned. Do not turn. When done, 
loosen fish from rack, place on platters, spread with 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, if a white fish ; or with plain butter, 
if a dark or oily fish. Slices of fish may be laid on a well- 
greased shallow pan, instead of on the rack, if desired. 

Baked Fish with Stuffing 

Cod, haddock, cusk, bluefish, mackerel, etc., may be 
cooked in this way. Clean six four-pound fish, sprinkle 



74 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

inside and out with salt, stuff and sew. If white fish, cut 
gashes on each side of backbone and insert strips of fat 
salt pork. Shape in form of letter S, fastening with 
skewers and twine. Or the head, tail, and backbone may- 
be removed, the fish stuffed, and laid flat in pan. Place 
on greased fish-sheet or on bottom of dripping pans. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush with melted butter 
or pork drippings, dredge with flour, and place around 
fish small pieces of fat salt pork. Baste often while 
baking. See Time-table on page 82. Serve with Drawn 
Butter, Egg, or Hollandaise Sauce. 

Plain Stuffing 

6 cups cracker or bread i-J teaspoons salt 

crumbs f teaspoon pepper 

I J cups melted butter ij cups hot water 

Mix ingredients in order given. This stuffing may be 
varied by adding six teaspoons each of parsley, capers, 
and pickles, and a little onion juice. This quantity is 
sufficient for six four-pound fish. 

Oyster Stuffing 

6 cups cracker crumbs 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
i-J cups melted butter 3 tablespoons finely- 

2j teaspoons salt chopped parsley 

f teaspoon pepper 4 cups oysters 

Clean and drain oysters, mix with crumbs and season- 
ings, moisten with melted butter and a little oyster liquor, 
if needed. 

Baked Fish without Stuffing 
Spread pork drippings, or thin slices of salt pork, in the 
"bottom of agate dripping pans. Lay on this slices of large 



FISH 75 

fish, or smaller fish which have been split open and boned. 
Spread with melted butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Bake in a hot oven until the flakes begin to separate. 
Remove to hot platters, spread with plain or Maitre d'Hotel 
Butter, garnish, and serve. 

Or bake until nearly done, then pour over fish rich milk 
or thin cream, allowing one cup to a fish; finish baking 
and serve. 

Halibut a la Creole 

i8 pounds halibut 3 tablespoons sugar 

2 quarts tomatoes I cup butter 

I quart water I cup flour 

6 slices onion i tablespoon salt 

6 tablespoons mild pepper ^ teaspoon paprika 

Cook tomato, water, onion, pepper, and sugar together 
twenty minutes. Melt butter, add flour, stir into hot mix- 
ture. Add salt and paprika, cook ten minutes, and strain. 
Cut fish into six pieces, clean, put into baking dishes, pour 
over it the sauce, cover, bake thirty-five minutes. Remove 
to platters, pouring sauce over fish. If halibut is cooked 
whole, a longer time should be allowed for baking. 

Fried Fish 

Small fish are cooked whole ; large fish are divided into 
sections or slices of any desired size. Clean, wipe dry, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in flour, then in egg and 
crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain. 

Or roll in flour or cornmeal, and saute in salt pork drip- 
pings in frying pan. 



76 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Kippered Herrings 

Remove fish from eight cans of kippered herrings. Lay- 
in shallow agate pans or on platters that can be put in 
oven. Sprinkle with pepper and lemon juice, pour over 
the liquor from cans, put in oven until well heated, and 
garnish with parsley and lemon slices. 

Buttered Finnan Haddie 

Put six four-pound fish in large pan, cover with cold 
water, bring to boiling point, and simmer slowly twenty- 
five minutes ; drain. Put on platters, spread generously 
v^ith butter, put in oven until butter is melted. 



SHELLFISH 

To Parboil Oysters 

Clean oysters by putting into a colander or strainer, 
pouring a small amount of cold water through them and 
removing any pieces of shell. 

Put one quart oysters at a time in saucepan, add one- 
half teaspoon salt, and shake over fire until gills are curled 
and oysters plump. 

Raw Oysters 

Use small, plump oysters, allowing six to each person. 
Clean shells thoroughly and serve oysters on deep halves. 
Arrange on plates of crushed ice, with valve end of shells 
toward center of plate, and with a slice of lemon in the 
center. 



FISH yj 



Fried Oysters 

Clean one and one-half gallons oysters, dry on a towel ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper ; dip in flour or fine crumbs, 
^%^, and crumbs again. Fry in hot fat, drain, and serve 
at once. Or saute in butter or bacon fat in a frying pan. 



Panned Oysters 

Clean and drain two gallons oysters. Melt two table- 
spoons butter in a hot frying pan, add one pint oysters, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring constantly, 
until edges curl. Turn into double boiler to keep hot, but 
keep water in lower part just below boiling point, or 
oysters will be cooked too much. Continue until all the 
oysters are cooked. Serve on toast, moistening with oyster 
liquor. 

Creamed Oysters 

4 quarts milk and oyster 4 quarts oysters 

liquor i teaspoon celery salt or 

2 cups butter 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

2\ cups flour I cup chopped mush- 

4 teaspoons salt rooms if desired 

\ teaspoon pepper 

Parboil oysters, drain ; add enough rich milk to strained 
oyster liquor to make four quarts. Make a white sauce of 
the first four ingredients, following directions for White 
Sauce. Add pepper, celery salt or lemon juice, and oysters. 
When very hot, serve on well-toasted bread which has been 
moistened in hot salted water. 



78 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Oysters 

6 quarts oysters 6 cups cracker crumbs 

i^ cups oyster liquor 3 cups melted butter 

f cup milk or cream Salt 

3 cups stale bread crumbs Pepper 

Mix bread and cracker crumbs and stir in butter. Put 
a thin layer in bottom of buttered baking dishes, cover 
with cleaned oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper ; repeat. 
Dip oyster liquor and cream over top, cover with remain- 
ing" crumbs. Bake thirty minutes in hot oven. A little 
finely-chopped celery is an improvement. There should 
never be more than two layers to a diah for scalloped 
oysters. 

Steamed Clams 

Wash and scrub clam shells, changing the water several 
times. Put into large kettle, allowing one cup hot water 
to one peck clams. Cover closely and cook until shells 
open, remove at once from fire or clams will be overcooked. 
Serve hot with melted butter. 

Scalloped Clams 

6 quarts clams i cup melted butter 

6 quarts cracker crumbs Paprika to taste 

Salt to taste 18 well-beaten eggs 

Drain the liquor from clams and set aside. Chop clams 
fine. Moisten cracker crumbs with equal parts of clam 
liquor and milk. Season with paprika and salt to taste, 
add melted butter, well-beaten eggs, and clams. Mix 
thoroughly and put into well-greased baking dishes. Bake 
until brown. 



FISH 79 

Lobster 

To open a lobster: Wipe it, break off the claws, separate 
tail from body by twisting and pulling at same time. 
Remove meat from body; save the liver and coral, but 
discard stomach and lungs. Break the large claws, or if 
shell is soft, cut with scissors, and remove meat whole. 
Crush the tail shell and remove meat in one piece ; cut the 
meat open lengthwise and remove intestinal canal. 

Lobster should be cooked only long enough to heat it 
through, or it will be tough. 

Creamed Lobster 

Remove meat from shell and cut in cubes or small pieces. 
Make Whit^ Sauce II, allowing one quart sauce for each 
quart meat. Season with salt, paprika, chopped parsley, 
and lemon juice. Add lobster meat, reheat, and serve on 
toast or in patty shells. 

Scalloped Lobster 

Prepare as for Creamed Lobster, using White Sauce I ; 
put in baking dishes, ramekins, or scallop shells, cover with 
buttered crumbs, bake until crumbs are delicately browned. 

Deviled Lobster 
Prepare as for Creamed Lobster, with the addition of 
two teaspoons each of onion juice, Worcestershire Sauce, 
and mustard, a few grains cayenne, and a few drops 
Tabasco, for each quart of sauce. 

Shrimps and Crabs 

Shrimps and crabs maybe creamed, scalloped, or deviled, 
like lobster. 



80 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Scallops 

Cover six or eight quarts scallops with boiling water, 
let stand three minutes, drain, and dry with cheesecloth. 
Season with salt and pepper, dip in crumbs, egg, and 
crumbs again. Fry in deep fat, or saute in butter in fry- 
ing pan. Serve with Sauce Tartare. 

Deviled Scallops 

8 quarts scallops 8 tablespoons tomato catsup 

I cup butter 8 teaspoons mustard 

8 tablespoons Worcester- Juice 4 lemons 
shire Sauce 4 teaspoons salt 

4 teaspoons paprika 

Parboil scallops two minutes, drain. Melt butter, add 
Worcestershire Sauce and other seasonings, bring to boil- 
ing point, serve. 

Scalloped Scallops 

6 quarts scallops 2 cups butter 

3 or more cups chopped i-| cups flour 

mushrooms 2^ quarts rich milk 

I J cups chopped onion -| quart scallop liquor 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Parboil scallops two minutes. Drain and chop or cut 
in slices. Melt butter, add onion and mushrooms, cook 
slowly five minutes. Add flour, stir well, and add hot milk 
and liquor, stirring all the time. When smooth and thick- 
ened, add scallops, put in buttered baking dishes, and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



MEATS 

Good beef is firm and fine-grained in texture, bright 
red in color, and well mottled with fat, which should be 
firm and yellowish white. 

Meat should be removed from wrapping paper as soon 
as it comes from the market, as the paper will absorb 
some of the juices. 

Keep meat in a cool place, but never put it in the ice 
compartment of a refrigerator, because the excessive 
moisture hastens decay. In case of insufficient refrigerator 
space, a large order may be given at one time, the butcher 
delivering it as required. 

Tender meats, such as the rump, the loin, or the ribs, 
should be broiled, pan-broiled, or roasted; but tough 
meats, like the flank, the round, or the brisket, should be 
cooked in water very slowly for several hours. But what- 
ever the method of cookery, the meat should first be sub- 
jected to a high temperature long enough to sear the 
outside, thus preventing the escape of the meat juices. 

As a rule, the palatability and digestibility of dark meats 
are greater when served rare, but of white meats when 
thoroughly cooked. 

Meats must be weighed, trimmed, and wiped with a 
cloth wrung out of cold water, but must never be put into 
water, as that draws out the meat juices. 



82 recipes and menus for fifty 

Time-table for Cookery of Meats and Fish 

Boiling 

Beef Range Aladdin Oven 

Braised or pot roast 4 to 5 hrs. 5 to 6 hrs. 

Stew 3 to 4 hrs. 4 to 5 hrs. 

Corned 4 to 5 hrs. 5 to 6 hrs. 

Cod (see Haddock) 

Fowl 2 to 3 hrs. 3 to 4 hrs. 

Haddock (3 to 5 Ib.pieces) 20 to 30 min. 
HaHbut (3 lb. pieces) 30 min. 

Ham (15 lbs.) 4 to 5 hrs. 5 to 6 hrs. 

Mutton, leg or shoulder 2 to 3 hrs. 3 to 4 hrs. 

Stew 2 to 3 hrs. 2 to 3 hrs. 

Veal stew 3 to 4 hrs. 4 hrs. 

Baking 

Beef, rump or sirloin, rare 10 min. to lb. 15-20 min. to lb. 

Chicken 2 hrs. 3 hrs. 

Fish (3 to 4 lbs. each) i hr. 2 hrs. 

Lamb 2 hrs. 3 hrs. 

Yearling 2^ to 3 hrs. 4 to 5 hrs. 

Chops i hr. 

Turkey 3 hrs. 4 hrs. 

Veal, leg or shoulder 4 to 5 hrs. 6 to 7 hrs. 



MEATS 83 

BEEF 

Broiled Steak 

Trim off superfluous or tainted fat from fifteen to twenty- 
pounds sirloin or rump steak, and wipe with cloth wrung 
out of cold water. Grease wire broiler with some of the 
fat, put meat in broiler, and broil over clear fire, turning 
almost constantly until surface is well seared, then occa- 
sionally until done. Steak cut one inch thick will require 
five minutes if liked rare, six minutes if medium, and ten 
minutes or so if well done. Remove to hot platters, spread 
with butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 

To Broil with Gas. Trim off fat and wipe steak. Light 
gas in broiling oven five to ten minutes before using. 
Grease rack in broiling pan with piece of fat. Lay steak 
on rack, and when broiler is hot, place pan on highest 
notch, so as to be as near flame as possible. As soon as 
steak is seared on one side, turn and sear other side. In 
turning, put the fork into steak as near edge as possible, 
in order to prevent escape of juices. When well seared, 
lower pan about six inches and cook slowly three to five 
minutes, then turn steak andcook from three tofiveminutes 
on that side. The time depends upon thickness of steak. 
Remove to platters, season with salt, pepper, butter, and 
drippings from broiling pan. 

Broiled steak may be served with Maitre d'Hotel Butter 
or Mushroom Sauce. 

Steak with Onions 

Slice one peck onions, cover with boiling water, cook 
slowly twenty minutes, drain. When well drained, put 
in saucepan or aluminum kettle, and let simmer until a 



84 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

portion of the water has evaporated. Add one-half cup 
or more butter and salt to taste. Stir onions often until 
soft and slightly browned. When steak is broiled and 
seasoned, cover with onions and send at once to table. 

Hamburg Steak 

10 pounds finely-chopped i teaspoon pepper 
raw beef 3-J tablespoons or more 

f cup minced onion salt 

f cup minced green peppers 
Chop onion very fine. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 
Shape in form of steaks one inch in thickness, or in small, 
flat cakes. Broil or pan-broil, spread with butter or Maitre 
d'Hotel Butter, or serve with Brown, Mushroom, or 
Tomato Sauce. The peppers may be omitted. 

Beefsteak Roll 

Take large, thin slices of steak from the round: there 
should be about ten pounds. Wipe meat and lay out flat. 
Prepare stuffing as for roast chicken. Spread it evenly 
over slices of steak, roll up tightly, and tie with string, 
securing ends well. Saute rolls in iron frying pan in salt 
pork drippings, turning them so as to be well browned on 
all sides. Put rolls in covered roasting pans, pour over 
drippings and enough boiling water to cover bottom of 
pans. Cover and cook slowly two or three hours, turning 
meat once, and adding more water if needed. Take meat 
out on platters, remove strings, and keep hot while gravy 
is made. Make gravy from liquid in pans, allowing eight 
tablespoons flour to each quart of liquid. Mix flour with 
water to pour easily. Season with salt, pepper, and kitchen 
bouquet. Serve in gravy boats. Carve steak by cutting 
crosswise through beef and stuffing. 



MEATS 8: 



Roast Beef 



There should be from fifteen to twenty pounds, and it 
may be left in one large piece or cut in two. Wipe, trim- 
ming off any fat or skin which may be discolored or 
tainted. Put on rack in dripping pans, skin side down, 
rub over with salt, dredge with flour. Place in hot oven, 
in order to sear surface quickly. As soon as flour in 
bottom of pan is browned, reduce heat and cook the re- 
quired time, basting often. See Time-Table for Cooking. 
If meat is quite lean, put two or three tablespoons drip- 
pings in pans. When meat is about half done, turn, dredge 
other side with flour, and finish roasting. 

To Roast in Aladdin Oven. Trim and wipe meat as 
above. Saute in hot greased frying pan, turning so as to 
brown all sides. Lay on rack in dripping pans. Unless 
there is plenty of fat on roasts, put two or three table- 
spoons drippings in pans. Light oven one hour before 
using. Put in meat, allowing fifteen to twenty minutes 
to the pound for roasting. Turn meat and change pans 
around when half done, in order that meat may be uni- 
formly cooked. Serve Brown Gravy or Mushroom Sauce 
with roast beef. 

Brown Gravy 

i-| cups drippings 2j quarts water 

i-J cups flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Pour off clear fat, reserving one and one-half cups of 
brown drippings in bottom of pans. Turn this into large 
saucepan, stir in browned flour. When smooth, add hot 
water, stirring constantly until smooth and thickened. 
Boil five minutes, season to taste. The gravy should be 
of a rich brown color, but if it is not, add kitchen bouquet 



S6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

as needed. Strain if lumpy. Brown the flour in frying" 
pan, stirring constantly until a uniform yellowish brown 
color. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

I J quarts milk i^ teaspoons salt 

1 1 quarts flour 6 eggs 

Mix salt with flour, add milk gradually, that mixture 
may not become lumpy. Add beaten eggs, then beat mix- 
ture two minutes with Dover egg beater. Cover bottom 
of hot pans with hot beef drippings ; pour in batter to 
depth of one-half inch. Bake thirty minutes, or until 
brown all over, basting, when well risen, with hot beef 
drippings. Cut in squares and serve around roast. 

Braised Beef 

12 to 15 pounds beef ij quarts diced turnips 

from lower part of i| cups onion 

round 2 teaspoons peppercorns 

ij quarts diced carrots ij cups celery 

2j quarts boiling water 2 cups diced salt pork 

Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, and brown entire surface in beef or pork drippings 
in frying pan. Put beef into kettle with closely fitting 
cover, add vegetables, pork, seasonings, and boiling water. 
Bring to boil, put into oven, and cook slowly four or five 
hours. When meat is tender, strain off two and one-half 
quarts liquor, thicken with one cup flour mixed to a smooth 
paste with cold water, season to taste with salt, pepper, 
and kitchen bouquet, and serve in gravy boats. Serve 
vegetables as a garnish for the meat. 



MEATS 87 

Pressed Beef 

12 plounds beef from flank, 2 cups onion 

brisket, or round 2 cups carrot 

I tablespoon salt i teaspoon peppercorns 

Sv/eet herbs to taste J cup vinegar 

Wipe and trim meat, cover with boiling water, bring to 
boiling point, simmer until meat is in shreds. Add vege- 
tables and seasonings one hour before it is done. Remove 
meat and pack in long, narrow pans. Reduce liquor to 
three cups, strain and pour over meat. Cover and press- 
with a heavy weight. Serve cold in thin slices. 

Corned Beef 

Wash corned beef, put in kettle, cover with cold water,. 
bring slowly to boiling point. Boil five minutes, remove 
scum, and cook slowly until tender. If it is to be pressed, 
cook until it falls to pieces, and let it stand in water until 
partially cooled. Pack it in brick-shaped pans, laying the 
long fibers lengthwise, and mixing in the fat so that it will 
be well marbled. Press until cold. Fifteen pounds is 
sufficient for one meal, but from twenty to twenty-five 
pounds will be needed if it is desired to have enough left 
over for hash. 

Boiled Dinner 

Prepare and cook corned beef as above, being careful 
that it does not cook to pieces. Two hours before dinner 
remove meat and a part of the liquor to another kettle, 
and replace in Aladdin oven or on back of range to keep 
hot, or to cook more if necessary. Have small cabbages 
cut in eighths, carrots and turnips in any desired shape, 
small potatoes left whole. Skim off fat from corned beef 



<88 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

liquor, put in carrots and cook thirty minutes, add cabbage 
and turnips and cook from thirty to forty-five minutes, 
then add potatoes and cook until all are done. If there is 
not sufficient liquor, add boiHng water. Serve cabbage 
in separate dishes, the other vegetables on platters with 
beef. Serve mustard or mustard pickles with corned beef. 

Boiled Tongue 

Wash twelve pounds corned tongues, cover with cold 
water, bring slowly to a boil, boil five minutes, removing 
the scum as it rises. Simmer three or four hours, or until 
tender. Remove skin and roots, and serve hot with 
Piquante or Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce. Or let cool 
in liquor in which they are cooked, and peel just before 
serving. Arrange slices overlapping each other around 
platters, with watercress piled in center. Serve with 
Tartare Sauce. 

Fresh tongues may be used instead of corned, but 
should be put directly into boiling water. 

Braised Tongue 

3 fresh beef tongues i cup diced carrot 

I cup onion i cup diced celery 

Wash tongues, put in kettle, cover with boiling water, 
and cook slowly two hours. Remove skin and roots, put 
tongues in deep pan, surround with vegetables, and pour 
over the sauce. Cover closely and cook two hours in slow 
oven, turning meat once. Slice, arrange on platters, pour 
the hot sauce over meat, and serve at once. 

Sauce. Melt one cup butter, add one cup flour, and stir 
until smooth and well browned. Add two quarts water 
in which tongue was cooked. Season with three teaspoons 
Worcestershire Sauce, salt, and pepper. 



MEATS 89 

Beef Stew 

I cup beef drippings 6 bay leaves 

12 pounds beef 6 sprigs parsley 

4 tablespoons salt 2 quarts diced turnip 

I teaspoon peppercorns 2 quarts diced carrot 

12 cloves 6 small sliced onions 

Pepper Coarse stalks celery 

Use any of the less expensive cuts of meat; left-over 
roast or steak may be used, in which case it is not necessary 
to brown it again. 

Cut beef in one-inch cubes. Dredge two-thirds of the 
meat with flour and brown it in the drippings. Put in a 
large kettle with remaining meat, add three quarts boiling 
water, and cook slowly four or more hours. Add vege- 
tables and seasonings two hours before serving. If it is 
desired to have potatoes in stew, cut them in slices and 
add half an hour before taking from fire. Thicken with 
two cups flour mixed with enough water to pour easily. 
Watch carefully while thickening, lest it burn on the 
bottom. Gravy left from roast beef should be added to 
the stew. Serve very hot with dumplings or baking powder 
biscuit. 

Dumplings 

2 quarts flour 5J tablespoons baking 
4 teaspoons salt powder 

3 tablespoons shortening 3 cups milk 

Sift dry ingredients together, rub in shortening with 
tips of fingers. Add milk gradually, using a knife for 
mixing. Take on floured board, pat and roll out to one- 
half inch thickness. Shape with a small biscuit cutter. 



90 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Place close together in buttered steamer, cover closely, 
steam twelve minutes. Serve at once. 



Spanish Stew 

12 pounds beef i or 2 sweet green peppers 

2 quarts tomatoes 3 large onions 

I quart water Salt to taste 

Cut beef in one-inch cubes. Dredge two-thirds of the 
meat with flour and brown in beef drippings. Seed and 
chop peppers, slice onions, strain tomatoes. Put all in- 
gredients into large kettle, bring to boiling point, and 
simmer four hours, or until meat is tender. Before serv- 
ing, thicken with two cups flour mixed with enough water 
to pour easily. Stir almost constantly until it thickens and 
"boils, in order to prevent its sticking and burning on 
bottom. 



Beef Loaf 

10 pounds raw beef 8 eggs 

2 pounds fat salt pork 3 or more tablespoons salt 

6 cups dry bread crumbs 5 teaspoons mixed herbs 
4 cups water or stock — 5 tablespoons minced 
more or less as needed onion 

I teaspoon pepper 

Chop meat and onion very fine. If bread is hard and 
dry, dip for a moment in cold water, then wring dry in 
cloth before crumbling. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, 
pack in brick-shaped pans, bake two and one-half hours 
in Aladdin oven, or in range with slow heat. Baste occa- 
sionally. Serve hot or cold. 



MEATS 91 

Beef a la ra44sanne 

10 pounds finely-chopped 3 tablespoons salt 
raw beef i teaspoon pepper 

4 pint cans tomato soup 3 cups buttered crumbs 

Mix beef thoroughly with salt and pepper. Rinse out 
cans with half as much water as there is soup. Put a layer 
of meat in bottom of casserole or baking dishes, then a 
layer of soup, another layer of meat, and so on until all 
the beef and soup are used. Cover with a thin layer of 
buttered crumbs. Bake two hours in Aladdin or other 
slow oven. Serve from the dishes in which it is cooked. 

Liver with Bacon 

Have six or more pounds beef liver cut in slices one- 
half inch in thickness. Pour boiling water over liver, let 
stand five minutes, drain. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour, and cook slowly in plenty of bacon fat 
until well cooked and browned slightly on both sides. 
Arrange on platters with crisp bacon. See directions for 
cooking bacon. 

Liver Loaf 

10 pounds sliced liver 3 teaspoons poultry season- 

2 tablespoons onion ing 

2 tablespoons salt 6 tablespoons vinegar or 

8 eggs well beaten juice of 2 lemons 

6 cups stale bread crumbs 

Cook liver in boiling salted water five minutes, drain, 
and chop fine. Mince onion very fine. Soak bread in cold 
water and wring dry in a cloth. Mix ingredients thor- 
oughly. Line brick-shaped pans with thin slices bacon, 



92 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

pack tightly with Hver mixture, cover with bacon, and 
bake two hours or more in moderate oven. Turn from 
molds and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

Braised Liver 

12 pounds beef liver 2 cups diced turnip 

2 cups diced carrot i pound salt pork 

2 cups diced onion 2 teaspoons peppercorns 

2 cups diced celery 2 teaspoons whole cloves 

3 bay leaves 

Pour boiling water over liver, let stand five minutes, 
then saute on all sides in hot pork or bacon drippings. 
Put meat in kettle, add vegetables and seasonings, lay thin 
slices pork or bacon over meat, add two quarts water or 
stock, cover closely, and cook three or more hours in slow 
oven. Remove meat, strain liquor, and thicken, using 
eight tablespoons flour to one quart liquid. Season to 
taste with salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet ; serve in gravy 
boats. Arrange sliced liver on platters, garnish with the 
vegetables, and serve with it fresh or pickled cucumbers, 
or tomato catsup. 

Tripe in Batter 

Wash eight pounds pickled honeycomb tripe, cover with 
boiling water, and simmer gently thirty minutes, or till 
tender. Drain, wipe as dry as possible, and cut in pieces 
for serving. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in batter, 
cook in frying pans in a small quantity of hot fat until 
well browned on both sides. Drain on brown paper. 

Batter. Mix and sift five cups flour, one and one-fourth 
teaspoons salt, and seven teaspoons baking powder. Add 
one and two-thirds cups milk and five well-beaten eggs. 



MEATS 93 

Lyonnaise Tripe 

10 pounds honeycomb tripe 2 J cups chopped onion 
2 cups butter 6 tablespoons minced 

Salt to taste parsley 

I teaspoon paprika 

Cook tripe in plenty of boiling water until very tender. 
Drain, cut in two-inch squares or strips. Cook onion 
slowly in butter until soft, turn in tripe, and toss about 
until butter is absorbed and tripe slightly browned. 
Sprinkle with salt, paprika, and parsley. If tripe is not 
pickled, add lemon juice or vinegar to taste. Serve very 
hot in covered dishes. 

Tripe a la Creole 

10 pounds tripe i| cups chopped onion 

1 1 cups flour I cup chopped green 

i^ cups butter pepper 

3 quarts strained tomato 

Melt butter, add pepper and onion, and cook until onion 
is soft and yellowish in color. Add flour, stir until smooth, 
then add tomato, stirring constantly until smooth and 
thickened. Season to taste with salt. Boil tripe until 
tender, cut in two-inch pieces, add to sauce, and simmer 
ten minutes. 

MUTTON AND LAMB 

Broiled Chops 

Wipe fifteen pounds chops, trim off superfluous fat, and 
broil, following directions for Broiled Steak, and allow- 
ing from six to eight minutes if liked rare, and from eight 



94 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to ten if liked well done. Arrange chops in circle on hot 
platters, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and spread with 
butter if desired. 

Pan-Broiled Chops 

Prepare as for Broiled Chops. Put in hissing-hot fry- 
ing pans, sear, turn, and sear other side. Turn often, but 
do not pierce chops with fork, or juices will escape. Cook 
about six minutes if liked rare, eight to ten minutes if 
liked well done. If much fat collects in pan, pour it off. 
Turn chops on edge long enough to brown fat. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, spread with butter if desired, and 
serve very hot. 

Baked Chops 

Wipe and trim chops, arrange on rack in dripping pans, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook in hot oven thirty 
minutes, turning them when about half done. Remove to 
hot platters and serve at once. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

Remove caul from two twelve-pound legs of mutton, 
wipe meat, put in kettle. Cover with boiling water, bring 
to boiling point, and boil five minutes, removing scum as 
it rises. Simmer until meat is tender, allowing fifteen 
minutes to the pound. When half done, add three table- 
spoons salt. Serve with Caper Sauce. 

Roast Lamb 

Three eight-pound legs of yearlings will be -sufficient^ 
Remove caul and outer skin, wipe, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, dredge with flour, place on rack in dripping pans. 
If cooked in range or gas oven, allow fifteen minutes to-*" 
the pound, basting often. If cooked in Aladdin oven, 



MEATS 95 

allow twenty-five or thirty minutes to the pound, turning 
meat and changing pans around when half done. Serve 
with Brown Gravy made as for Beef Roast, or with Mint 
Sauce. 

Braised Leg of Mutton 

Have two twelve-pound legs of mutton boned. Wipe, 
roll, and tie securely in shape. Melt one-half cup pork fat, 
add one cup each diced onion, turnip, and carrot, two bay 
leaves, and two sprigs parsley. Cook five minutes, add 
two quarts boiling water, one tablespoon salt, and one- 
half teaspoon peppercorns ; pour over the mutton. Cover 
closely and cook slowly three hours. Remove from pan 
and keep hot while making sauce. Melt one and one- 
fourth cups butter or drippings, add one and one-fourth 
cups flour, stir till well browned,' then add strained liquor 
from pan. There should be two quarts. 

Roast Shoulder of Lamb 

Have three shoulders of yearlings boned at market. 
Wipe with damp cloth, sprinkle with salt, stuff, roll, and 
tie securely. The stuffing may be omitted if preferred. 
Put into boiling salted water to nearly cover, boil five 
minutes, removing scum as it rises. Cook gently in Aladdin 
oven or over simmerer two hours, or until tender. Then 
remove from water, drain, put in dripping pans, dredge 
with flour, salt, and pepper, and cook in hot oven forty- 
five minutes, or until brown and crisp on surface. Baste 
with some of the liquor in which meat was cooked. Make 
Brown Gravy with drippings and stock, following direc- 
tions given with Beef Roast. H gravy is colorless or 
insipid, add kitchen bouquet. Stuffing may be made as for 
Roast Shoulder of Veal, omitting lemon juice. 



g6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Irish Stew 

1 6 pounds mutton i quart diced carrot 

6 quarts potatoes i quart diced turnip 

6 large onions Salt and pepper to taste 

Wipe and cut in small pieces about sixteen pounds from 
forequarter of mutton. Saute half of it in beef or pork 
drippings until well browned. Put all the meat into kettle, 
add three quarts boiling water, bring to boiling point, and 
cook slowly in Aladdin oven or on back of range three 
hours. At end of first hour, add sliced onions, turnip, and 
carrot. An hour later add potatoes cut in one-third inch 
slices, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Before 
serving, thicken with tw^o cups flour stirred to a smooth 
paste with cold water. Boil two minutes or more, stirring 
carefully to prevent burning. Serve with Dumplings or 
small Baking Powder Biscuit. 

Lamb Stew 

i6 pounds lamb from 4 small cans peas 

the forequarter 2 quarts stock or water 

4 onions sliced 2 quarts strained tomato 

I cup drippings Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut meat into one-inch cubes. Fry onions in drippings 
till slightly colored, then skim into kettle. Dredge meat 
with flour and brown in drippings. Put meat and stock 
in kettle with onion, cover, cook slowly in Aladdin oven, 
or on range two hours, or until lamb is tender. Soak 
pieces of toast in the hot seasoned tomato and arrange on 
platters. Skim out meat, put on toast, and keep hot. Add 
remainder of tomato to stock, and thicken with one and 
one-half cups flour mixed to a paste with cold water. Boil 



MEATS 97 

till thickened , add peas, season, heat thoroughly, and pour 
over meat and toast. Mutton may be used instead of lamb. 

Fricassee of Lamb 

12 to 1 6 pounds meat 3 quarts water 

from the forequarter i onion sliced 
Bacon fat Salt and pepper to taste 

Have lamb boned and cut in pieces for serving. Wipe, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and 
brown in bacon fat. Put in kettle, add boiling water, 
boil five minutes, removing scum as it rises. Simmer in 
Aladdin oven, or on range, two hours for lamb, three 
hours for mutton. Remove from kettle and keep hot while 
sauce is made. Melt one cup bacon fat, cook onion in it 
slowly five minutes. Remove onion, add one and one- 
fourth cups flour, stir till smooth, add three quarts of the 
stock in which meat has been cooked, and from which all 
fat has been skimmed. Cook until thickened, season with 
salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet. Arrange meat on 
platters and pour over it the sauce. 

VEAL 

Roast Shoulder o£ Veal 

Have two medium-sized forequarters of veal boned at 
market. Trim off tainted or discolored skin or fat, and 
wipe with cloth wrung out of cold water. Sprinkle with 
salt, fill cavity with stuffing, make into rolls, and tie 
securely. Dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
lay on rack in dripping pans. Cover top with slices of fat 
salt pork and cook six hours in Aladdin oven, or four hours 
in range. Remove meat and keep hot while making gravy. 



98 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Pour off some of the clear fat, leaving one and one-half 
cups brown drippings, add one and one-half cups flour, 
stir until well browned,add two and one-haif quarts water, 
stir until smooth and thickened. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper. The thick part of leg or loin may be boned 
and roasted in the same manner. 

Stuffing 

I quart dry bread crumbs 4 tablespoons chopped 
4 teaspoons salt onion 

3 tablespoons lemon juice i cup melted drippings 
I tablespoon mixed herbs i cup chopped salt pork 

Water to moisten if needed 

If bread is hard and dry, dip in cold water and wring dry 
in cloth before crumbling. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 

Braised Shoulder of Veal 

Bone, wipe, and tie securely ; then cook same as Braised 
Beef. 

Veal Fricassee 

Cut sixteen pounds veal from forequarter in pieces for 
serving. Wipe, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in salt pork fat. Put in kettle wdth 
three quarts boiling water and cook slowly three hours, 
or until meat is tender. Melt two cups pork fat, add two 
cups flour, and stir until well browned, then add three 
quarts of water in which veal was cooked, stirring con- 
stantly until smooth and thickened. Season with salt, 
pepper, onion juice, and lemon juice. Serve veal in center 
of platter, garnish with parsley, and surround with hot 
sauce. 



MEATS 99 

Veal Fricassee with Tomato 

Have sixteen pounds veal from the forequarter boned 
and cut in pieces for serving. Wipe, roll in egg and 
crumbs, and saute in pork or beef drippings. Put into 
kettle, add three quarts Tomato Sauce, cover closely, and 
cook slowly three or four hours. 

Veal Stew 

Have two shoulders of veal boned and cut in pieces for 
serving. Put in kettle, add two quarts boiling water, boil 
five minutes, then cook slowly in Aladdin oven or on range 
four hours, or until tender, adding salt when half done. 
Add milk to make three quarts liquid, thicken with one and 
one- fourth cups each flour and butter creamed together. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Arrange meat on 
pieces of toast and pour over them the hot sauce. 

Mock Birds 

Have from eight to ten pounds veal cut from leg or 
loin, in slices half an inch thick. Remove bone, fat, and 
skin, and pound until fiber is broken. Cut in pieces five 
inches long and three wide. IMake a forcemeat as follows : 
Put veal trimmings and six slices fat salt pork through 
meat grinder ; add one-half their measure of fine cracker 
crumbs. Season highly with salt, pepper, lemon juice, 
paprika, onion juice, and poultry seasoning. Moisten with 
beaten egg and hot water. Cover each piece of veal nearly 
to the edge with this forcemeat, roll, and fasten with 
wooden toothpicks. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour, 
and brown in pork drippings. Put in stew pan, add three 
quarts rich milk, and simmer twenty minutes, or until 
meat is tender, watching carefully that it does not burn. 



lOO RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Remove birds to pieces of toast ; thicken milk with one cup 
flour creamed with one cup butter, season to taste, and 
pour it over birds and toast. 

Veal Loaf I 

10 pounds veal from 6 tablespoons lemon juice 

the forequarter 3 tablespoons salt 

i-J pounds fat salt pork i teaspoon pepper 

18 common crackers 2 tablespoons minced onion 

f cup thin cream 2 tablespoons sage 

Put veal and pork through meat grinder, roll crackers, 
and mix all ingredients thoroughly. Pack in brick-shaped 
pans, bake slowly three hours, basting with pork fat. 
Serve cold, cut in thin slices. 

Veal Loaf II 

10 pounds veal from i teaspoon pepper 

forequarter Salt to taste 

I pound bacon 3 or 4 onions 

Cook veal and onions in boiling water to barely cover, 
until tender; remove meat and let get cold. Left-over 
roast veal may be substituted for a part of the meat, in 
which case it would be ready for use without boiling. Put 
veal and bacon through meat grinder, season well, and 
moisten with enough stock to pack. Put in brick-shaped 
pans, set pans in larger ones containing water, and cook 
one hour or longer in a moderate oven. Let loaves get 
perfectly cold before removing from pans. 

Veal Hearts 

Wash twelve veal hearts, but do not let them soak. 
With a pair of scissors cut out veins and arteries. Fill 



MEATS lOI 

cavities with stuffing and sew edges of opening together. 
Saute the hearts in salt pork fat; then put in kettle with 
two quarts boiling water. Cover closely and cook three 
hours in Aladdin oven, or in range with slow heat. Re- 
move hearts to platters. Thicken liquid in pan with one 
cup flour mixed till smooth with cold water ; season to taste 
with salt, pepper, and kitchen bouquet. If sauce is too 
thick, add a little hot water. Serve in gravy boats. Serve 
with the hearts onions which have been boiled until very 
soft, then browned slightly in butter. 

Stuffing 

I quart small, dry pieces 4 tablespoons finely- 

of bread chopped onion 

4 teaspoons thyme 3 eggs well beaten 

I tablespoon salt i cup melted drippings 

I teaspoon marjoram -J teaspoon sage 

■J teaspoon pepper Water if needed 

Put dry bread into cold water, then wring dry in a cloth 
before crumbling. Mix ingredients thoroughly. 

PORK 
Pork Chops 

Wipe fifteen to twenty pounds chops, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, put in hot frying pans, and cook slowly until 
well browned on each side. 

Baked Pork Chops 

Wipe chops, sprinkle with salt and pepper, put on racks 
in dripping pans, and cook forty-five minutes, or until 
done, in a hot oven, turning when half cooked. 



102 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Roast Pork 

Wipe fifteen to twenty pounds pork, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, put on rack in dripping pans, cook from three 
to four hours in range, or from five to six hours in Aladdin 
oven. If desired, gravy may be made as for other roasts. 

Barbecued Fresh Ham 

Wipe a large, fresh ham and score rind with sharp 
knife. Mix one tablespoon of mustard seed, half a tea- 
spoon each of celery seed and peppercorns with one cup 
sugar, one cup of vinegar, and two cups water ; let stand 
ten or fifteen minutes. Pour this pickle over ham, letting 
it stand several hours, or over night, and turning it several 
times. Put into dripping pan, fat side down, and cook in 
Aladdin oven six hours; or put in covered roaster and 
cook in range four hours. Strain the pickle and keep it 
hot, basting occasionally with it until all is used. Serve 
hot or cold. 

Boiled or Baked Ham 

Soak over night two well-scrubbed nine-pound hams. 
Put into cold water with one tablespoon pickling spice, 
six slices carrot, six slices onion, two stalks celery, one 
teaspoon celery salt, three sprigs parsley, and one-half cup 
strong vinegar. Bring to boil and cook slowly five or 
more hours, or until tender. Do not overcook, or it will 
be difficult to carve nicely. If it is to be served cold, let it 
cool in the water in which it was cooked. 

For baked ham, remove skin and cover with following 
paste: one cup brown sugar, one cup soft, fine bread 
crumbs, one teaspoon mustard, and enough vinegar to hold 
the paste together. Stick ham with cloves and make in- 



MEATS 103 

cisions over entire surface. Bake one hour, basting with 
one cup water mixed witli one-fourth cup vinegar and 
two tablespoons brown sugar. Serve hot or cold. 

Broiled Ham 

Have eight pounds or more ham cut in thin slices. 
Soak one hour in lukewarm water, drain, wipe, and broil 
three minutes. 

Fried Ham 

Have ham cut in thicker slices than for broiling. Wipe, 
remove rind, and soak in lukewarm water for an hour. 
Drain, dry on cheesecloth. Put into hissing-hot frying 
pans and brown quickly, first on one side, then on the 
other. Do not cook too long, or the ham will be hard and 
dry. Serve with eggs fried in the ham fat, or with the 
following sauce poured over ham just before serving: 
Pour off any clear fat in frying pan, then add one and 
one-half cups vinegar, four tablespoons prepared mustard, 
four tablespoons sugar, and one teaspoon paprika, and 
bring to boiling point. 

Bacon 

Have bacon cut in very thin slices. Put in dripping 
pans, crowding slices closely together. Cook in hot oven 
until a golden brown, removing the pieces with skimmer 
or fork as soon as done. They will not be crisp until lifted 
out of the fat. Keep in warm place until ready to serve. 

Sausages 

Cut apart ten pounds link sausages and wipe with a wet 
cloth. Pierce each one in several places with a fork. Lay 
sausages close together on rack in dripping pans, and cook 



104 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

in hot oven until brown and crisp. If overcooked they will 
be dry and tasteless. Serve with Fried or Glazed Apples, 
or mashed potato. 

Frankfurters 

Wipe, cover with boiling water, and cook slowly until 
they rise to the surface of water. Drain, garnish with 
parsley, and serve with mustard pickles and rye bread. 

Frankfurters may also be sauted in salt pork drippings 
or butter, in frying pans. They should be thoroughly 
cooked, and brown and crisp on the surface. 

Scrapple 

Boil six or eight pounds fresh pork in four quarts water 
until so tender that it falls to pieces. Any of the cheaper 
•<:uts of meat or left-over roast may be used. Strain the 
liquor into fireless cooker kettle. Chop meat finely, remov- 
ing any bones or gristle, and return to liquor. Bring to 
boiling point and thicken with one quart corn meal. Boil 
five minutes, put in cooker, and cook several hours. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Turn into shallow oblong 
pans to mold. Cut in half -inch slices and cook on griddle 
until brown and crisp on both sides. 

Creamed Salt Pork 

I pound fat salt pork ij cups flour 

3 quarts milk Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut pork in half-inch dice, fry until golden brown, 
then add flour, stir until smooth, and remove from fire. 
Heat milk in double boiler, add to above mixture, stirring 
constantly until smooth, and return to double boiler. Cook 
thirty minutes, stirring once or twice. Serve with baked 
potatoes. 



MEATS 105. 

Crisp Salt Pork 

Cut fat salt pork in very thin slices, soak thirty minutes 
in lukewarm water, drain. Dip each piece in flour so that 
each side is well coated, but shaking off any loose flour. 
Put in hot frying pans, and cook until crisp and golden 
brown on each side. Drain, put on hot platters, and serve 
with baked potatoes and cream sauce made as follows : 
Pour off clear fat, reserving one and one-fourth cups of 
the brown drippings in bottom of pans, to use in place 
of pork, and proceed as in Creamed Salt Pork. 



POULTRY AND GAME 
To Select Poultry and Game 

A chicken has soft feet, smooth skin, many pinfeathers, 
and soft cartilage at end of breastbone. A fowl has long 
hairs, thick yellow skin, hard scaly feet, and a breast- 
bone which is hard and bony to the very tip. Fowl are 
preferable for stewing, because of the larger amount of 
meat in proportion to bone. A good turkey also will 
have soft, pliable breastbone. Good geese have many pin- 
feathers. Small birds should be plump, with soft feet, 
and pliable bills. 

To Dress and Clean Poultry 

Singe, to remove hairs, by holding bird over a flame 
from gas or burning paper, turning so as to expose all 
parts of surface to blaze. Take out pinfeathers, using a 
small, sharp-pointed knife. Cut off head, turn back skin, 
and cut off neck close to body. Cut through skin around 
leg one inch below leg joint, being careful not to cut 



I06 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

tendons. Place leg at this cut over edge of table, and 
press downward to break bone, then take foot in right 
hand, holding bird in left, and pull off foot, drawing out 
with it the tendons. In old birds tendons must be drawn 
separately, using a skewer. 

Make incision in skin below breastbone large enough 
to admit hand. Remove entrails, gizzard, heart, and liver. 
Care must be taken not to break gall bladder, which lies 
tinder liver. Remove lungs and kidneys from hollows each 
side of backbone. Insert two fingers under skin close to 
neck, and draw out windpipe and crop. Remove oil bag. 
Wash bird by letting cold water run through it. Be sure 
that everything has been removed, and that bird is clean, 
then wipe dry inside and out. A disagreeable odor may 
sometimes be removed by washing thoroughly in soda 
water. 

To Stuff and Truss Poultry 

Put enough stuffing in neck end to fill skin moderately 
full ; put remainder in body. Take a few stitches wherever 
necessary to hold cut edges together. Fasten neck skin 
to back with small skewer or stitches. Cross drumsticks, 
tie securely with string, and fasten to tail. Place wings 
close to body, keeping them in place by inserting skewer 
through both wings and body. 

Roast Chicken or Turkey 

Allow twenty-five pounds dressed, whether chicken, 
fowl, or turkey. 

Dress, clean, stuff, and truss as directed. Rub entire 
surface with salt, and spread breast and legs with butter, 
using one and one- fourth cups. If crusted surface is 



POULTRY AND GAME 10/ 

desired, dredge with flour, or cream butter with one cup 
flour before spreading. Place birds on rack in dripping 
pans and cook required time, turning occasionally so as 
to brown all parts uniformly. Roast turkeys three hours 
or more, chickens from one and one-half to two hours. 
Old birds may be steamed until tender, then roasted. 
Baste often, using one and one-half cups butter melted 
in one quart water. Remove string and skewers before 
serving. 

Plain Stuffing 

4 quarts crumbs -J teaspoon pepper 

I tablespoon salt i tablespoon poultry 

I cup melted butter seasoning 

Water to moisten 

Crumble stale bread after cutting off any dark crusts. 
If dried bread is used, it should be in small pieces instead 
of crumbs. Put into cold water long enough to soften, 
wring dry in cloth, then crumble. Mix all ingredients 
thoroughly. If crumbly stuffing is wanted, use more 
butter and no water. 

Oyster Stuffing 

4 quarts crumbs -J teaspoon pepper 

I tablespoon salt 6 tablespoons finely- 
I cup melted butter chopped celery 

4 tablespoons minced I or more quarts 
onion oysters 

Prepare crumbs as for Plain Stuffing; add butter, 
seasonings, and oysters which have been cleaned and 
drained. 



I08 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Gravy 

I -J cups drippings 3 quarts water or stock 

I -J cups flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Pour off some of the clear fat, reserving enough of the 
rich brown drippings in bottom of pans for the gravy. 
Turn drippings into large saucepan, add flour, stir until 
smooth, add stock in which giblets, necks, and tips of 
wings have been cooked. Boil five minutes, season, and 
strain. For giblet gravy add to above the finely-chopped 
giblets. 

Broiled Chicken 

Wash chickens which have been dressed and split down 
back for broiling, and wipe dry. Place in dripping pans, 
skin side down, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot over 
with butter, and bake twenty minutes or longer in hot 
oven. Remove to broiler and finish cooking over coals 
or in gas broiler. 

Fried Chicken 

Clean young chickens, singe, and cut in pieces for serv- 
ing. Plunge in cold water, drain, but do not wipe. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Put 
salt pork or other drippings into frying pans to depth of 
one inch ; cook chicken in fat until tender and well browned. 
Remove to platters. Pour off drippings, reserving one 
cup ; add one cup flour, stir well, add two and one-half 
quarts rich milk. Stir until smooth and well cooked, strain. 
add two tablespoons finely-chopped parsley, and serve in 
gravy boats. 

Smothered Chicken 

Clean and split young chickens suitable for frying. 
Place in dripping pans, skin side down, sprinkle with salt 



POULTRY AND GAME IO9 

and pepper, cover with slices of bacon, dredge with flour. 
Bake in a hot oven forty-five minutes, or until tender, 
basting often. Serve with the following sauce : Pour off 
all but one cup of the drippings in pans, add one cup flour 
and two and one-half quarts thin cream, or half cream 
and half chicken stock. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and cook until thickened. 

Chicken Stew 

Cut up and wash twenty-five pounds dressed fowl. 
Put into kettle, cover with boiling water, and cook slowly 
until tender, adding salt when half cooked. Remove meat 
and thicken stock with flour mixed to smooth, thin paste 
with cold water, allowing one-half cup of flour to one 
quart of liquid. Season to taste with salt and pepper, pour 
over the meat, and serve with Dumplings or small Baking 
Powder Biscuit. 

Chicken a la Jardinidre 

20 pounds dressed fowl 2 quarts canned peas 

4 quarts boiling water 2 cups flour 

2 quarts small onions 2 cups butter or chicken fat 

2 quarts diced carrot Salt and pepper to taste 

Stew fowls in four quarts water until tender, adding salt 
and onions the last hour. Remove fowls from water and 
skim out the onions. When cold, skim fat from liquid 
and remove meat carefully from bones, keeping it as much 
as possible in large pieces. 

Melt two cups butter or chicken fat, stir in flour and 
four quarts of liquor in which fowls were cooked. It 
saves time to have this reheated before adding to sauce. 
Boil five minutes, stirring constantly ; season to taste and 
add meat. 



no RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Boil carrots in salted water until tender. Heat in double 
boiler canned peas which have been well drained, adding 
salt to taste. Saute the onions slightly in butter. 

Pile meat in center of platters, surrounding with 
vegetables arranged in mounds ; pour sauce over the whole 
and serve with Boiled Rice. 

Chicken Fricassee 

Wash and cut up twenty-five pounds dressed fowl. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and 
brown in pork drippings. Put into kettle, add boiling 
water to nearly cover, and cook slowly three hours or until 
tender. Add enough butter to frying pan in which meat 
was browned to make one and one-fourth cups in all, 
add one and one-fourth cups flour, and three quarts water 
in which fowl was cooked. Boil five minutes, season to 
taste with salt and pepper, strain, and pour it over the 
meat. 

Creole Chicken 

Cut twenty-five pounds dressed fowl in pieces for serv- 
ing, wash, and dry. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in salt pork or bacon drippings. 
Put into kettle with two quarts water and two quarts 
strained tomato ; add two cups sliced onion, three mild red 
or green peppers, finely chopped, three cups diced celery, 
salt and pepper to taste. Simmer three hours, or until 
fowl is tender. Remove to platters and keep hot while 
making sauce. Add butter to frying pan in which fowl 
was browned to make one cup, add one and one- fourth 
cups flour and three quarts of liquor in which fowl was 
cooked. Boil five minutes, season, pour around meat, and 
serve with Boiled Macaroni. 



POULTRY AND GAME III 

Chicken Pie 

Prepare and cook twenty pounds dressed fowl or chicken 
as for Chicken Stew. Remove chicken, skim off fat, and 
thicken four quarts liquor with one and one-half cups flour 
mixed with cold water to pour easily. Place a small cup 
in center of each baking dish, remove some of the large 
bones from chicken, then arrange it in baking dishes, add 
gravy to come almost to top, cool. Make baking powder 
crust as for Meat Pie, cut in small rounds with biscuit 
cutter, place close together on top of chicken, bake thirty 
minutes, or until done, in hot oven. Serve extra gravy in 
boats. 

Roast Goose 

Singe, remove pin feathers, wash and scrub geese in hot 
soapsuds or soda water. Remove internal organs as from 
fowl, wash in clear water, and wipe dry. Stuff, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, lay thin slices fat salt pork over 
breast. Place on rack in dripping pans, bake two or more 
hours, removing pork the last half hour. Garnish with 
watercress, serve with Giblet Sauce made as for Roast 
Chicken. 

Stuffing 

2 cups hot mashed potato J cup butter 

ij cups soft, stale crumbs i egg 

J cup chopped salt pork i J teaspoons salt 

J cup chopped onion i teaspoon sage 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. This quantity is sufficient 
for one goose. 

Roast Wild Duck 

Singe, draw, and remove pinfeathers. Wash inside and 
out and wipe dry. Stuff, place on rack in dripping pans, 



112 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover breast with thin 
slices salt pork. Bake from thirty to forty-five minutes 
in hot oven. Domestic ducks should be cooked about twice 
the time allowed for wild ones. Serve with Olive Sauce 
and currant jelly. 

Stuffing 

f cup boiled chopped i tablespoon melted butter 

onions f cup bread crumbs 

f cup chopped sour f teaspoon sage 

apples Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix ingredients thoroughly. This amount is enough 
for one duck. Instead of stuffing to be eaten, ducks may 
be stuffed with sour apples, pared, cored, and quartered ; 
or two or three onions may be substituted for the apples. 

Stewed Rabbits 

Skin, clean, and cut up rabbits, cutting each joint and 
halving the backs. Saute sliced onions in salt pork drip- 
pings, allowing two onions to each rabbit. Skim out the 
onions and saute rabbit, which has been sprinkled with 
salt and pepper and dredged with flour. Pack meat in 
kettle, add onion, salt, and pepper, sweet herbs, and water 
to nearly cover. Cover closely and simmer two hours, or 
until tender. Drain liquor into another saucepan, keeping 
the meat hot over hot water or in Aladdin oven ; thicken 
with six tablespoons flour creamed with six tablespoons 
butter to each quart Hquid. Season with salt, pepper, 
tomato catsup, and Worcestershire Sauce; add meat, 
simmer five minutes, and serve. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II3 



General Directions for Using Left-over Meats 

AND Fish 

Remove all gristle, bones, and skin from both meat and 
fish before using in warmed over dishes. Roast beef or 
steak should be stewed until tender in a small amount 
of water before using for meat pies, ragouts, hash, cro- 
quettes, or other made dishes. Roast beef gravy may be 
poured boiling hot over cold sliced roast beef and served 
at once, but it should not cook in it, or meat will be tough- 
ened, unless it has first been cooked in water several hours. 

Water may be used in place of stock by adding beef 
extract or bouillon cubes to flavor. Kitchen bouquet may 
also be used. Colorless or tasteless sauces may be improved 
by adding kitchen bouquet. 

Salt codfish should soak over night, or for several hours, 
before using. 



Creamed Corned Beef 



8 or more quarts 


cold 


2 small sliced onions 


corned beef cut 


in 


I teaspoon celery salt 


dice 






I teaspoon paprika 


4 quarts milk 






■J cup lemon juice 


2 cups butter 






6 tablespoons chopped 


2 cups flour 






parsley 



Scald onion in milk, then skim out. Cook flour in butter, 
remove from fire, add hot milk, stirring constantly until 
smooth, then cook in double boiler thirty minutes. Add 
seasonings and meat, salt to taste, heat thoroughly, and 
sprinkle with parsley before sending to table. 



114 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Creamed Chicken 

8 or more quarts cold 4 quarts White Sauce II 
chicken or veal cut 2 teaspoons celery salt 
in dice J teaspoon pepper 

Reheat chicken in sauce, adding celery salt and more 
salt and pepper if needed. Creamed Chicken maybe served 
on toast ; or in border of boiled rice or mashed potato ; or 
with crisp bacon ; or there may be added to sauce sliced 
mushrooms, or cleaned and drained oysters. 

Creamed Dried Beef 

2 or more pounds smoked 4 quarts White Sauce II 
dried beef Salt and pepper to taste 

Shred beef, cover with hot water, let stand ten minutes, 
drain. Add to sauce, heat thoroughly, and season to taste. 

Frizzled Dried Beef 

2 or more pounds smoked 2 cups butter 

dried beef 2 cups flour 

4 quarts hot milk or water Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt butter in large saucepan, add shredded dried beef 
which has been soaked ten minutes in hot water and 
drained. Cook slowly until butter is golden brown, then 
add flour and stir until well mixed with beef. Add hot 
water, stirring until smooth and thoroughly cooked. 
Season to taste. If milk is used, heat it in double boiler, 
and cook the mixture in boiler thirty minutes, as in making 
white sauce. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II5 

R6chauff6 of Meat 

^ cup drippings 4 quarts brown stock 

1 cup butter 8 quarts diced meat 
6 tablespoons minced i teaspoon pepper 

onion Salt to taste 

2 cups flour I tablespoon mixed herbs 

I quart dried mushrooms 
Cook onion in butter until slightly browned ; add flour 
and stir until browned. Add stock and stir until smooth 
and well cooked. Stir into this sauce the meat and the 
mushrooms, which have been soaked and chopped ; season 
and serve. 

Mutton a la Creole 

f cup chopped green 2^ quarts brown stock 

pepper ij quarts strained tomato 

■J cup minced onion 6 quarts diced mutton 

1 1 cups butter 2 quarts cooked macaroni 

2 cups flour 3 tablespoons lemon juice 

Salt to taste 

Cook pepper and onion in butter three minutes ; add 
flour, stir until smooth, then add stock and tomato. Simmer 
a few minutes, stirring constantly; add seasonings and 
meat. Heat well and pour it over the cooked macaroni. 

Curry of Mutton 
8 quarts cold mutton or 2 cups butter 

veal 2 cups flour 

4 large chopped onions 3 tablespoons salt 

2 tablespoons curry i teaspoon pepper 

4 quarts stock or water 

Cut meat in one-inch squares. Fry onion in butter until 
soft, add flour mixed with seasonings, and stock. Boil 



Il6 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

three minutes, put in meat, simmer fifteen minutes. Serve 
on platter with border of Boiled Rice or Turkish Pilaf. 

Mexican Ragout 

8 or more quarts cold 2 teaspoons celery salt 

beef, lamb, or veal f cup chopped onion 

diced I cup chopped green pepper 

3 quarts strained tomato 4 teaspoons Worcestershire 

1 quart stock Sauce 

2 cups butter i teaspoon paprika 
2 cups flour Salt to taste 

Cook onion and pepper slowly in butter until soft, stir- 
ring often; add flour, stir until smooth; add stock and 
tomato, cook until smooth and thickened. Put in. meat, 
heat thoroughly, season to taste, and serve. 

Ragout of Chicken 

25 pounds chicken or fowl 4 bay leaves 
roasted or boiled 6 peppercorns 

J pound diced bacon 4 sprigs parsley 

■J cup bacon drippings 3 quarts Consomme or 

2 sliced carrots stock 

I J cups flour 

Remove skin and bone from cold cooked chicken. The 
meat need not be in pieces of the same size, but should 
not be broken or crumbled. Cook together bacon and 
seasonings for fifteen minutes, being careful not to let 
them get very brown. Add flour, cook until light brown, 
then stir in the stock. Put in all the trimmings from 
chicken, and cook in Aladdin oven or on back of range 
one hour; strain. Put in carefully the pieces of chicken; 
simmer forty-five minutes. Garnish with triangles of 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II7 

toast. Cooked veal may be substituted for part of the 
chicken. 

Casserole o£ Rice and Meat 

2 quarts uncooked rice 3 tablespoons chopped 



4i 


quarts cold meat 


parsley 




chopped finely 


3 tablespoons chopped 


4 


or 5 teaspoons salt 


onion 


4 


eggs 


2 teaspoons thyme 


I 


teaspoon celery salt 


I cup cracker or bread 


I 


teaspoon pepper 


crumbs 



I teaspoon marjoram 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Cook rice as for Boiled Rice. Add seasonings, egg, and 
crumbs to meat. Mix well and moisten with stock or 
water enough to pack easily. 

Butter molds, line bottom and sides with rice, pack in 
the meat, cover closely with rice, steam forty minutes. 
Turn out on hot platters. Serve with Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce poured around casseroles, or put in sauce 
boats. 

Chicken or Veal Souffle 

3 quarts scalded milk 3 cups soft, stale bread 

f cup butter crumbs 

f cup flour 3 quarts cold, cooked, finely- 

2 tablespoons salt chopped chicken or veal 

I teaspoon pepper 18 eggs 

6 tablespoons chopped parsley 

Make sauce of the first five ingredients, following direc- 
tions for White Sauces. Add bread crumbs five minutes 
before removing from double boiler. Add chicken, yolks 
of eggs, and parsley. Fold in stiffly-beaten whites, put in 



Il8 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

buttered baking dishes, bake thirty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Serve with Mushroom Sauce. 

Beef Souffl6 

Make same as Chicken Souffle, using beef stock instead 
of milk, and beef instead of chicken. Serve with Mush- 
room or Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce. 

Cottage Pie 

Cut remnants of beef roast or steak in small pieces, add 
boiling water and two or three sliced onions, and simmer 
until tender. Season highly with salt and pepper, and 
thicken liquid with flour mixed to a smooth, thin paste 
with cold water. Add gravy left from roasts. Put a layer 
of hot mashed potato in bottom of greased baking dishes, 
then a thick layer of prepared meat, and cover with a 
layer of potato. Bake in hot oven until potato is slightly 
browned. 

Meat Pie 

Cut cold beef roast or steak in one-inch cubes; there 
should be nine quarts or more. Put in kettle, add three 
sliced onions and four quarts boiling water. Simmer 
slowly two hours or until tender. Skim out meat and put 
into baking dishes. Mix one and one-half cups flour with 
cold water to pour, stir into hot liquid, bring to boiling 
point, and season to taste. Cover meat with a layer of cold 
sliced potatoes, or those which have been peeled, sliced, 
and parboiled until nearly done. Pour in gravy to moisten 
well, but not to come quite to top. Cover with the follow- 
ing crust, bake thirty minutes, or until done, in hot oven. 
Serve remainder of gravy in boats. Potatoes may be 
omitted and more meat used. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS II9 

Baking Powder Crust 

2j quarts flour 5 teaspoons salt 

3f cups milk or milk 6| tablespoons baking 

and water powder 

I J cups shortening 

Sift dry ingredients together, and cut or rub in shorten- 
ing. Add liquid gradually, mixing with knife to as soft 
a dough as can be handled. Roll and cut as for Baking 
Powder Biscuit. Cut in small rounds, place close together 
on top of meat mixture, bake about twenty minutes in hot 
oven. Or roll out in a sheet that will just fit baking dish, 
cut a hole an inch in diameter in center, place on meat, 
and bake thirty minutes, or till done, in hot oven. Still 
another method is to mix dough to a stiff drop batter, and 
drop by spoonfuls on top of meat. 

Corned Beef Hash 

Mix thoroughly finely-chopped corned beef and chopped 
or mashed potato. Do not cut off all the fat, as it improves 
the flavor of hash. Moisten with stock in which meat was 
cooked, and season to taste with salt and pepper. The 
proportions of meat and potato may vary from equal parts 
of each to two-thirds potato, according to taste or materials 
at hand, but there should be from ten to twelve quarts of 
the mixture. 

Melt beef drippings to barely cover bottom of frying" 
pans, put in hash, packing it in well, cook in oven until 
bottom and sides are brown and crisp. About an hour will 
be required with an oven full of pans, which require more 
or less changing around, in order that hash be uniformly 
browned. Fold like an omelet, or turn out on round 



120 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

platters with brown crust uppermost. Garnish with pars- 
ley. Serve with it ChiH sauce, tomato catsup, or cucumber 
pickles. 

Vegetable Hash 

Prepare, cook, and serve as Corned Beef Hash, substi- 
tuting vegetables for all or a portion of the potato. 
Chopped beets, turnips, carrots, onion, and cabbage may 
be used, in any convenient proportion and combination, 
allowing one-third meat to two-thirds vegetables, if 
possible. 

Beef Hash 

Prepare, cook, and serve as Corned Beef Hash. Use 
any remnants of cooked lamb, veal, pork, or beef, first 
stewing roast or steak in a small amount of water until 
tender. Cook one cup each minced onion and mild green 
pepper in two cups pork, bacon, or beef drippings until 
soft, then add to hash. Season with salt, pepper, celery 
salt, or finely-minced celery, and half a cup minced parsley. 

Baked Mince with Eggs '^ 

4 quarts cooked veal, lamb, i teaspoon pepper 

or chicken -J cup chopped onion 

2 quarts cooked ham 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 quarts soft bread crumbs parsley 

Salt to taste 

Remove skin, gristle, and bones from meat, and chop 
fine before measuring. Mix ingredients thoroughly, and 
moisten well with stock or water. Put in greased baking 
dishes, cover and cook thirty minutes in moderately hot 
oven. Break required number of eggs on top of mince. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS 121 

Sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover again, and cook until 
whites are set. Send to table in baking dishes. 

Meat Cakes 

7 quarts finely-chopped i teaspoon paprika 

cooked meat 3 tablespoons mixed herbs 

3 quarts soft crumbs I cup drippings 

f cup minced onion Stock or water to moisten 

Chop meat fine. Crumble soft, stale crumbs ; or soak 
pieces of dried bread in cold water, then wring dry in 
cloth before crumbling. Cook onion in drippings until 
soft, and add to mince. Mix all ingredients thoroughly,, 
moistening enough to shape easily. Ten or twelve beaten 
eggs may be added, in which case less stock will be needed. 
Season to taste with salt. Shape in cakes, and brown in 
pork or bacon fat to barely cover bottom of frying pans. 

The above mixture may be packed in well-greased bread 
pans and baked one hour in moderate oven. Turn out on 
platters, garnish with parsley, or parsley and sliced toma- 
toes, and serve with Mushroom or Tomato Sauce. 

Minced Meat on Toast 

6 or more quarts minced Salt and pepper to taste 

meat i-| tablespoons Worcester- 

3 or more quarts brown shire Sauce or 

gravy -J cup tomato catsup 

Gravy left from beef, lamb, veal, or chicken roast may 
be used. Bring gravy to boiling point, add minced meat 
and seasonings. Toast half slices of bread until nicely 
browned and dried, dip in salted water, arrange on platters^ 
pour meat over toast, and serve. 



122 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Ham Hash 

7 quarts chopped potato Salt to taste 

3-J quarts chopped ham f cup flour 

•J teaspoon pepper 6 cups milk 

Chop ham and potato rather coarsely, mix well, and 
season. Put into baking dishes or frying pans, sprinkle 
with the flour, and add the milk. Cook in oven or on 
back of range until it is thoroughly heated and the milk 
is absorbed. 

Croquettes 

Croquettes may be made from meat, fish, vegetables, 
-and cereals, alone or in any desired combination. Meat 
and fish are usually mixed with a thick sauce, but cold 
cooked cereal may be substituted for the sauce. 

With a sauce the croquette mixture must be $pread in 
shallow pans and allowed to stand several hours or over 
night to stiffen. 

Croquettes made with cold cereal instead of sauce, or of 
vegetables mixed with tgg, may be shaped at once. 

Croquettes should be soft and creamy inside, and 
shapely, crisp, and brown outside. If the mixture proves 
to be too soft to handle, a little fine cracker dust may be 
added. It is better to roll croquettes in bread rather than 
■cracker crumbs. The bread should be dried without brown- 
ing, rolled and sifted. 

Croquettes are cooked in deep fat, and should brown 
in one minute. To test the fat, put in some white bread 
•crumbs ; they should brown in one-half minute. 



LEFT-OVER MEATS 1 23 

Meat Croquettes with Sauce 

2j cups butter -J teaspoon pepper 

3 cups flour 2 teaspoons celery salt 

2 J quarts stock' Onion juice to taste 

3 teaspoons salt 5 quarts cooked meat 

Use any remnants of cooked meat. Trim off gristle, 
fat, and skin, and chop finely before measuring. Melt 
butter, add flour, and when smooth, stir in hot stock, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth and cooked. Season, add 
meat, and more seasonings if needed. Cool, shape, roll in 
crumbs, tgg, and crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain on brown 
paper. Serve with or without sauce. This quantity makes 
about one hundred, allowing two rounded tablespoon fuls 
of mixture for each, or two hundred of the usual size. 

Meat Croquettes without Sauce 

5 quarts cold meat I cup finely-chopped 
2-J quarts cold cereal celery 

■J cup chopped green i cup minced onion 

pepper Salt and pepper to taste 

Use any remnants of cold meat, and chop fine before 
measuring. Put meat, cereal, onion, and pepper through 
meat grinder. Chop celery very fine. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly, shape, roll in crumbs, egg, and crumbs again. 
Fry in deep fat, drain. Serve with Tomato, Brown, or 
Olive Sauce. This makes one hundred large croquettes, 
or two hundred of the usual size. 

Chicken or Veal Croquettes 

Make as for Meat Croquettes with or without Sauce, 
using all chicken or veal for the meat, substituting milk 



124 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

for the stock in sauce, and adding three tablespoons 
chopped parsley. If cereal is used, it should be light in 
color. 

Fish Croquettes 

Make as for Meat Croquettes with or without Sauce, 
using any cooked fresh fish in place of meat, substituting 
milk for stock in sauce, and adding three tablespoons 
lemon juice. If cereal is used, it should be farina, hominy, 
cream of wheat, or some other light-colored cereal. 

Creamed Finnan Haddie 

12 pounds finnan haddie 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Lay fish in large pan, cover with cold water, bring 
slowly to boiling point, simmer twenty-five minutes, drain. 
Separate carefully into flakes, add to white sauce, reheat, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, serve. Left-over fish may 
be used. 

Scalloped Fish 



3 quarts milk 


i^ cups butter 


6 bay leaves 


i^ cups flour 


6 sprigs parsley 


■J teaspoon pepper 


6 slices onion 


4 quarts cold flaked fish 


4 teaspoons salt 


3 cups stale crumbs 



Make a white sauce of milk, butter, and flour, first re- 
moving the parsley, bay leaves, and onion which have been 
scalded in milk. Carefully flake, or cut into inch pieces, 
cold cod, haddock, halibut, salmon, or other fish. Arrange 
half the fish in bottom of buttered baking dishes, being 
careful not to break flakes ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
pour over half the sauce; repeat. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, bake in hot oven fifteen minutes, or until crumbs 



LEFT-OVER FISH I25 

are brown. Canned salmon may be used, eight pint cans 
being equivalent to four quarts of fresh fish. 

Creamed Salt Codfish 

4 quarts milk Salt to taste 

2 cups butter 3 pounds codfish 

2 cups flour I teaspoon pepper 

Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, follow- 
ing directions for White Sauces. Put codfish into four 
quarts cold water, bring slowly to simmering point, simmer 
forty-five minutes, or until soft ; drain. Lay fish on board, 
and with a fork shred very fine, add to sauce, and season 
to taste. 

Serve alone, with baked potatoes, or in a border of 
mashed potatoes. 

Fish Hash 

5 quarts cold boiled potato i teaspoon pepper 

5 quarts cold fish Salt pork or bacon 
Salt to taste drippings 

Chop potatoes very fine, mix with minced fish and salt 
and pepper. Melt fat in pans, add fish mixture, stirring 
until well moistened, then cook slowly until well browned. 
Fold like omelet, serve with crisp bacon. 

Salmon Loaf 

6 pint cans salmon 3 cups or more milk or 
4I quarts dried bread water 

in small pieces Salt and pepper to taste 

12 eggs 

Soften bread in milk. Pick out skin and bones from 
salmon, but leave liquor. Mix all ingredients together 



126 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

very thoroughly, pack in brick-shaped pans, set in larger 
pans containing water, bake from forty-five to sixty 
minutes. Turn out on platters, garnish with parsley. 
Serve with Egg or Pickle Sauce. 

Salmon Surprise 

I J quarts rice Salt 

6 pint cans salmon Pepper 

Cook rice as given under Table for Cookery of Cereals. 
Remove bones and skin from canned or fresh boiled 
salmon. Line bread tins with the warm steamed rice, fill 
centers with salmon, sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover 
with rice. Steam one hour, remove to platters, serve with 
Egg Sauce. This quantity is sufficient to fill six tins nine 
and one-half inches long by four and one-fourth wide. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH 

White Sauce I 

f cup butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

f cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter in large sauce- 
pan, add flour, stir until smooth, and remove from fire. 
Add hot milk, stirring constantly until smooth ; return to 
double boiler and cook thirty minutes, beating hard two 
or three times. If not smooth,, beat with Dover egg beater. 
Add salt just before serving. By following these direc- 
tions there is no possible danger of scorching milk or 
sauce. This sauce is used for scalloped dishes. 

White Sauce II 

I cup butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Make same as White Sauce I. This sauce is used for 
creamed dishes. 

White Sauce III 

2j cups butter 2 quarts scalded milk 

2-J cups flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Make same as White Sauce I. This sauce is used for 
croquettes. 

127 



128 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

I J cups butter 2 quarts hot water 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

J teaspoon pepper 

Melt one cup butter, stir in flour mixed with seasonings, 
and when smooth add boiling water, stirring constantly 
until it boils. Boil five minutes, stir in remaining butter. 
Serve with boiled or baked fish, or boiled parsnips. 

Egg Sauce 

To Drawn Butter Sauce add ten hard-cooked eggs, 
sliced or chopped. Serve with baked or boiled fish. 

Pickle Sauce 

To Drawn Butter Sauce add one teaspoon paprika and 
two cups sour cucumber pickles, chopped or sliced, and 
drained. Serve with boiled or baked fish, or boiled mutton. 



Brown 


Sauce 


I J cups butter 


6 sprigs parsley 


2 small sliced onions 


I J cups flour 


8 slices carrot 


2 quarts brown stock 


4 bay leaves 


2 teaspoons salt 



J teaspoon pepper 

Cook first five ingredients together until browned but 
not burned, add flour. Stir until browned and add hot 
stock, stirring constantly until it boils. Boil three minutes, 
strain, and season. If a plainer sauce is desired, omit 
carrot, parsley, and bay leaves. 

Mushroom Sauce 

To Brown Sauce add two cans mushrooms, drained, 
rinsed, and sliced. Or use dried mushrooms, soaked and 
sliced. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH 129 

Piquante Sauce 

Make Brown Sauce. Before serving, add one-half cup 
vinegar, one teaspoon paprika, and one-half cup each 
chopped sour cucumber pickles and capers, and heat to 
boiling point. 

Spanish Sauce 

I scant cup bacon fat ij quarts stock 

I cup chopped onion ^ teaspoon pepper 

I cup chopped pepper 2 teaspoons salt 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons kitchen 

1 pint strained tomato bouquet 

I can chopped mushrooms 

Cook onion and pepper slowly in bacon fat until soft, 
add flour, and cook two minutes. Add stock and tomato, 
stirring until it boils. Boil five minutes, season, and serve. 
The mushrooms may be omitted. Serve with roast beef, 
beefsteak, lamb chops, or veal roast. 

Plain Tomato Sauce 

Make same as White Sauce I or White Sauce II, sub- 
stituting strained tomato for milk. 

Highly Seasoned Tomato Sauce 

2 quarts strained tomato 4 sprigs parsley 
I cup butter 8 cloves 

4 slices onion -J teaspoon pepper 

4 slices carrot 2 teaspoons salt 

4 bay leaves i cup flour 

Melt butter ; when it bubbles, put in onion, carrot, pars- 
ley, bay leaves, and cloves, cook until slightly browned; 
remove seasonings. Add flour, stir until smooth, then add 
hot strained tomato, bring to boiling point, and serve. 



130 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Bechamel Sauce 

I quart white stock 2 medium-sized onions 

I quart scalded milk i teaspoon thyme 

I cup butter 6 bay leaves 

I cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

■J teaspoon pepper 

Cook onion, thyme, and bay leaves slowly in butter ten 
minutes. Stir in flour, and when smooth add hot milk 
and stock, stirring constantly until thickened and boiled ; 
strain. The seasonings may be cooked in stock instead of 
in butter, but be sure there is a full quart of liquid after 
straining. The sauce itself need not be strained, in that 
case. A yellow sauce may be made by stirring the sauce 
into the beaten yolks of eight eggs. 



Currant Jelly Sauce 

Make one and one-half quarts Brown Gravy. Add two 
half -pint jars currant jelly, stirring until dissolved. Serve 
with roast lamb. 

Philadelphia Relish 

4 quarts chopped cabbage ij teaspoons mustard 

6 mild green peppers seed 

6 mild red peppers 3 teaspoons salt 



14 



quarts chopped celery 3 cups brown sugar 

tablespoons celery seed 2 cups vinegar 



Chop fine the first four ingredients, mix, and set in 
cool place until ready to serve, then add seasonings, 
vinegar, and sugar. Serve with roast meat or fried oysters. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH I3I 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

I J cups butter 3 tablespoons finely- 

I tablespoon salt chopped parsley 

f teaspoon pepper J cup lemon juice 

Cream butter, add salt, pepper, and parsley, and lemon 
juice very slowly. 

Tartare Sauce 

1 quart Mayonnaise J cup chopped pickles 

dressing 2 tablespoons chopped onion 

J cup capers 2 tablespoons chopped 

J cup stoned olives parsley 

Chop very fine the capers, olives, pickles, onion, and 
parsley, and add to Mayonnaise just before serving. Serve 
with fried cod, haddock, halibut, or smelts. 

Horseradish Sauce 

To one and one-half cups well-drained, prepared horse- 
radish add two cups thick cream beaten until quite creamy, 
but not stiff. Season with paprika and salt. Serve with 
cold sliced tongue or roast beef. 

Cucumber Sauce 

4 large cucumbers J teaspoon paprika 

2 teaspoons salt J cup vinegar 

J teaspoon pepper i cup thick cream 

Peel cucumbers, of which there should be more than 
four, if they are not quite large. Cut in quarters length- 
wise and remove any large seeds. Chop fine and drain, 
or squeeze dry through cheesecloth. Add seasonings, 



132 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

vinegar, and cream which should be beaten until quite 
stiff. Serve with broiled fish. 

Mustard Sauce 

4 tablespoons butter i cup sugar 

■J cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons mustard i quart vinegar 

1 tablespoon turmeric J teaspoon pepper 

If vinegar is very strong, use one cup water and three 
cups vinegar. Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar slowly, 
stirring until perfectly smooth. Boil until thick and 
smooth, stirring constantly ; add butter and remove from 
fire. Serve cold with ham or corned beef. 

Mint Sauce I 

2 bunches or 2 cups | cup sugar 

chopped mint 3 cups vinegar 

If vinegar is very strong, dilute with water. Wash mint 
thoroughly, remove stems and old leaves, drain, and chop. 
Mix with sugar, let stand from thirty to sixty minutes. 
Add vinegar and let stand one or more hours. 

Mint Sauce II 

6 half -pint jars currant 2 tablespoons finely- 
or barberry jelly chopped mint leaves 

Separate jelly in pieces and sprinkle chopped mint over 
top. Serve with roast lamb. 



VEGETABLES 

All vegetables should be thoroughly washed in cold 
water ; and roots and vegetables should be scrubbed with 
a small brush kept for that purpose. Wilted vegetables 
may be somewhat freshened by soaking an hour or so in 
cold water. 

Put all fresh vegetables into boiling water to cook, and 
drain as soon as tender. Soak dried vegetables several 
hours in cold water. Cook spinach, corn, and similar 
vegetables in the water in which they are soaked; but 
drain beans and add fresh water before cooking. In either 
case the water should be brought slowly to boiling point, 
and vegetables simmered until done. 

Canned beans, peas, and similar vegetables should be 
turned carefully into a colander and rinsed thoroughly in 
cold water, then left an hour or so to aerate before using. 

For the sake of greater accuracy, quantities are often 
given by weight instead of measure. 

Use one and one-half tablespoons salt to one gallon 
water for boiling fresh vegetables, adding it when vege- 
tables are about half done. 

Allow from twenty to thirty minutes for vegetables to 
come to boiling point after boiling water is added. The 
time given below is that required after boiling point is 
reached. It is impossible to give the exact time for 
cooking, as so much depends upon the age and size of 
vegetables. 

Buttered crumbs for scalloped dishes should always be 
soft, stale crumbs, never dried ones. If light in color, the 

^33 



134 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

crusts may be used by grating them. Crumble the bread 
in the fingers, or rub together two pieces of bread. Use 
one-half cup butter to one quart crumbs. 

Time-Table for Boiling Vegetables 



Vegetables 


Hours 


Minutes 


Asparagus 




30 to 50 


Beets, young 


I to 2 




Beets, old 


3 to 5 




Cabbage 


1 to li 




Carrots 


I to 2 




Cauliflower 




30 to 60 


Dandelions 


I to 2 




Onions 


/ 
t 


60 to 90 


Parsnips 




45 to 90 


Peas 




20 to 40 


Potatoes 




30 


Squash, summer 




30 to 60 


Spinach and other greens 




20 to 60 


Sweet potatoes 




30 to 60 


String beans 


I to 2\ 




Shell beans 


I to 2 




Turnips, white 




40 to 60 


Turnips, yellow 


l\ to 2 





Boiled Asparagus 

8 or more large bunches 3 teaspoons salt 

asparagus i or more cups butter 

\ teaspoon pepper 

Cut off tough part of stalks, wash, tie again in bunches, 
place upright in deep kettle of boiling salted water to 



VEGETABLES 135 

nearly cover. Cook twenty to thirty minutes, drain. 
Arrange in dishes, and moisten with melted butter which 
has been mixed with salt and pepper. Or toast half slices 
of bread until nicely browned and well dried ; moisten with 
asparagus water, and place on platters. Arrange aspar- 
agus on toast and pour over it the melted butter. 



Creamed Asparagus 
6 large bunches asparagus 4 quarts White Sauce II 

Cut off tough ends of stalks, wash, and cut in inch pieces. 
Boil in salted water twenty minutes, or until tender, add- 
ing tips when half done. Drain, add to sauce, and serve 
on toast prepared as for Boiled Asparagus. This is a nice 
luncheon dish, served with or without cold meat, broiled 
ham, or crisp bacon. 

Boston Baked Beans 

3 quarts pea beans J cup brown sugar 

4 tablespoons salt i tablespoon mustard 
I cup molasses i teaspoon pepper 

J cup vinegar 2 pounds fat salt pork 

Pick over beans, cover with cold water, and soak over 
night. Drain, cover with cold water, add one teaspoon 
soda, bring to boiling point, and parboil fifteen minutes, 
or until skins burst when exposed to air ; drain. 

Scrape and scald pork rind, cut pork in two pieces, and 
cut through rind every half inch to the depth of one inch. 

Mix salt, sugar, mustard, and pepper, and dilute with 
molasses and vinegar. Put an equal quantity of beans 
and seasonings into each of two bean pots, bury pork in 



136 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

beans, fill pots with boiling water, cover, and cook slowly 
six or eight hours, or more, adding more water if needed. 
The Aladdin oven is excellent for this purpose. 

Stewed Lima Beans 

Soak two and one-half or three quarts dried Lima 
beans in cold water over night, drain. Add five quarts 
cold water, bring to boiling point, and cook slowly two 
hours, or until done, adding salt to taste when half done. 
The beans should be soft but not broken, and the liquid 
quite creamy. More water should be added if they get 
dry. Season with one cup butter, one-half teaspoon 
pepper, and salt to taste. Pea beans may be prepared in 
the same manner. 

Lima Beans with Cream 

Soak three quarts Lima beans in cold water over night 
or for several hours, drain. Cook slowly in plenty of boil- 
ing water until soft but not broken, adding salt when half 
done. Drain, add one quart thin cream or White Sauce I, 
salt and pepper to taste, and let simmer very slowly fifteen 
or twenty minutes on back of range, or over hot water. 

Lima Beans with Tomato 

Soak and cook as for Lima Beans with Cream. Be sure 
that they keep their shape perfectly. Melt one cup butter, 
add drained beans, shaking and stirring carefully until 
butter is absorbed. Add two quarts Highly Seasoned 
Tomato Sauce, mix carefully, then put in oven until well 
heated through. 



VEGETABLES 137 

Flageolets 

Flageolets are similar in shape to Lima beans, but 
greenish in color and much smaller. Cook the same as 
Stewed Lima Beans. If they are to be used for salad, cook 
in a larger quantity of water, and drain as soon as soft. 
They should be whole and glossy. 

Spanish Beans 

3 quarts red kidney beans i teaspoon soda 

1 pound fat salt pork 6 chopped onions 

2 quarts strained tomato 4 to 6 chopped peppers 
5 tablespoons salt i teaspoon paprika 

Soak beans over night, drain, cover with water, add 
soda, boil fifteen minutes, drain. Add diced pork, stewed 
and strained tomato, seasonings, and water to barely cover. 
Simmer gently from eight to ten hours. 

Buttered String Beans 

Remove strings from eight pounds string beans, cut in 
inch pieces, and wash. Cook in boiling salted water from 
one to two and one-half hours, drain. Season with one 
cup butter, one-half teaspoon pepper, and more salt if ^7, 
needed. Be careful not to break beans. 



Canned String Beans 

2 No. 10 cans beans i tablespoon salt 

I cup butter i teaspoon pepper 

Turn beans carefully into colander and rinse thoroughly 
with cold water; put in double boiler, add melted butter 
mixed with seasonings, and heat for one hour. 






b 
^1^ 



\^ 



138 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

String Beans a la Lyonnaise 

2 gallon cans or 4 teaspoons salt 

8 small cans beans J teaspoon pepper 

3 small onions 3 tablespoons chopped 
2 cups butter parsley 

■| cup lemon juice 

Saute sliced onions in one cup butter until soft and 
yellow. Turn beans carefully into colander and rinse 
with cold water. Turn carefully into double boiler, add 
onion mixture and seasonings, and heat for one hour. 
Cream the other cup of butter, add parsley and lemon 
juice, and add to beans a few minutes before serving. 

Boiled Beets 

15 pounds (i peck) beets | cup sugar 
I cup butter * i cup vinegar 

■J teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons salt 

Scrub beets well, but do not cut skin or cut stems close 
to beet, as much of the sweetness and color escape with 
the juices. Cook in boiling water until soft; about one 
hour for young beets, three to five hours for old ones. 
If gas is used for cooking, it is cheaper to use canned beets. 
Six No. 3 cans will be required. When tender, put into 
cold water and rub ofif skins. Slice, put in double boiler, 
add seasonings, and reheat. 

Savory Beets 

15 pounds (i peck) beets | cup sugar 
I J cups butter i cup strong vinegar 

I -J cups flour 2 tablespoons salt 

6 cups beet water -J teaspoon pepper 

Prepare and cook as for Boiled Beets and cut in half- 
inch cubes. Cream together butter, flour, sugar, salt, and 



VEGETABLES 139 

pepper, add six cups boiling water in which beets were 
cooked, stirring constantly until smooth and well cooked. 
Reheat beets in this sauce, using double boiler. The sauce 
is quite thick and merely coats them. 

Brussels Sprouts 

Pick over six quarts Brussels sprouts, removing wilted 
leaves, and soak in cold water thirty minutes or longer. 
Cook 4n boiling salted water until tender, drain, and add 
to three quarts White Sauce II. 

Maitre d'Hotel Cabbage 

12 to 15 pounds cabbage i teaspoon paprika 
I-J cups butter 4 tablespoons chopped 

I tablespoon salt parsley 

5 tablespoons lemon juice 

Take off outside leaves, cut in quarters, and remove 
tough stalk. Soak in cold water for an hour or so, then 
cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain, chop 
rather coarsely, and reheat with the following sauce: 
Cream butter, add salt and pepper, then lemon juice very 
slowly. Vinegar may be used in place of lemon juice. 
Sprinkle parsley over cabbage after it is put in serving 
dishes. 

Scalloped Cabbage 

10 pounds cabbage 3 quarts White Sauce I 

Cut in quarters, remove outside leaves and stalk, soak 
in cold water thirty minutes or more. Cook in boiling 
salted water until tender. Drain, cut each quarter in 
several pieces, put into six baking dishes, add the white 
sauce, lifting cabbage with fork, that sauce may penetrate. 



140 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Cover with buttered crumbs, bake fifteen minutes, or until 
brown. Grated cheese may be added if desired. 

Cold Slaw 

8 pounds trimmed cabbage 2 tablespoons salt 
2 cups strong vinegar -J teaspoon pepper 

2 cups sugar i teaspoon paprika 

Cut off stalk 'and outside leaves and weigh. Soak in 
cold water for an hour or so ; drain very dry, chop fine. 
Mix ingredients just before serving. Only crisp, tender 
cabbage should be used for slaw. 

Cream Slaw 

Prepare as for Cold Slaw, let stand in refrigerator 
fifteen minutes. Drain off most of vinegar and fold in 
one quart of thick cream which has been beaten until stiff. 

Creamed Carrots and Turnips 

6i pounds carrots 3 quarts White Sauce II 

6| pounds white turnips J teaspoon pepper 

Cut carrots and turnips in half-inch cubes and cook 
separately in salted water until soft. Drain and add to 
white sauce. 

Boiled Carrots 

12J pounds (i peck) J teaspoon pepper 

young carrots i cup butter or 

2 tablespoons salt ij pints thin cream 

Wash, scrape, and cut carrots in one- fourth inch slices. 
Boil thirty minutes, or until soft, in a small amount of 
salted water. Let water nearly all evaporate instead of 



VEGETABLES I4I 

draining it off, if possible to do so without burning the 
carrots. Add butter, pepper, and salt to taste. Old carrots 
may be cooked in the same manner, but lack the sweetness 
and delicacy of flavor of new ones. 

German Carrots 

12 J pounds carrots i cup butter 

2| tablespoons salt i cup flour 

I teaspoon pepper 6 tablespoons chopped 

J cup sugar parsley 

J teaspoon grated nutmeg 

Wash, scrape or peel, and cut carrots in half-inch cubes. 
Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Cream butter 
and flour together, add two quarts boiling water in which 
carrots were cooked, stirring constantly. Boil five minutes, 
add seasonings and carrots; let simmer fifteen minutes, 
and serve, sprinkled with parsley. 

B6chamel Carrots 



12 J pounds carrots cut in 


I 


cup butter 


one-fourth inch slices 


H 


cups flour 


3 peppers 


6 


tablespoons sugar 


2 quarts stock 


2 


tablespoons salt or 


I quart or less cream or 




more 


milk 


4 


teaspoon pepper 



Wash carrots, scrape or pare very thin, and slice. Put 
into kettle with stock and seeded peppers, and simmer 
until soft, then remove peppers. Cream together butter, 
flour, and seasonings, and stir into carrot mixture, diluting 
with rich milk or thin cream to make consistency of 
White Sauce 11. Bring to boiling point and serve. 



142 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Buttered Cauliflower 

6 large or 9 medium- ij or 2 cups butter 
sized cauliflowers J teaspoon pepper 

Remove leaves and stalks, separate into flowerets, and 
soak in cold salt water thirty minutes or more. Cook in 
salted water until tender but not broken. Drain and turn 
into serving dishes. Add pepper to melted butter and 
pour it over the cauliflower. 

Creamed Cauliflower 

Prepare and cook as for Buttered Cauliflower. Drain 
and add to three quarts White Sauce II. Grated cheese 
may be added. 

Creamed Celery 

8 quarts celery in pieces 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Wash celery, cut in inch pieces, and cook in salted water 
until tender. Drain and add to white sauce. The coarse 
outside stalks may be utilized in this way. 

Cucumbers 

Wash and pare twelve or more large cucumbers. The 
paring should be thick enough to remove all the green 
coloring. Cut in thin slices and keep in cold water until 
ready to serve. Drain and serve with vinegar, salt, and 
pepper. 

Corn on the Cob 

Remove husks and silky fibers. Boil ten minutes in 
water to cover, remove to platters, cover with napkins. 
Serve at once with salt and butter. 



VEGETABLES 143 

Corn Pudding 

6 No. 2 cans corn 12 eggs beaten slightly 

6 tablespoons sugar 3 quarts stale crumbs 

2 tablespoons salt -J cup butter 

3 quarts milk i teaspoon pepper 

Stale or dry bread should be used, but it must be broken 
or crumbled, not ground or rolled. Mix ingredients 
thoroughly. Put into six buttered baking dishes, set pans 
in hot water, or put asbestos mats underneath. Bake in 
slow oven one hour, or until a knife comes out clean. 
Serve at once. 

Corn Oysters 

2-J quarts corn pulp or 2J cups flour 

canned corn i j tablespoons salt 

10 well-beaten eggs J teaspoon pepper 

Mix ingredients thoroughly and cook on hot, well- 
greased griddle, using bacon or pork fat. This makes one 
hundred or more, allowing a rounded tablespoonful of 
the mixture to each oyster. Very nice served with crisp 
bacon. 

Scalloped Corn 

7 No. 2 cans corn 2| tablespoons salt 
I cup butter J teaspoon pepper 

3 cups milk 2 quarts stale crumbs 

Use stale, not dried, crumbs, and mix them with melted 
butter. Add milk and seasonings to corn. Put corn into 
six baking dishes, cover with buttered crumbs, bake in 
moderate oven thirty minutes, or until crumbs are golden 
brown. 



144 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fried Eggplant 

Pare six large eggplants and cut in one-third inch 
slices, sprinkle with salt, let stand an hour or more, and 
press out the juice. Drain, dip in crumbs, egg, and crumbs 
again, and saute in hot fat. 



Greens 

5 or 6 pecks greens 2 or more tablespoons salt 

I cup butter J teaspoon pepper 

Spinach, beet tops, dandelions, Swiss chard, or cowslips 
may be used. If beet greens are used, the little beets may 
be left on or cooked separately and used as garnish. Wash 
greens very thoroughly, picking off wilted leaves and re- 
moving roots. Cook in boiling salted water until tender, 
drain, chop, and reheat with seasonings in double boiler. 
Garnish with hard-cooked eggs and serve with vinegar. 



Boiled Onions 

i^ pecks onions -J teaspoon pepper 

2 cups butter Salt to taste 

Peel onions, keeping them under water as much as 
possible while doing so. Put in kettle with plenty of boil- 
ing water and one-half teaspoon soda, boil two minutes, 
drain. Add boiling water to cover, boil five minutes, 
drain. Add more water and two tablespoons salt, boil 
until perfectly tender. It is better that they should lose 
their shape than that they should be underdone. Drain, 
add seasonings, heat thoroughly, and serve. 



VEGETABLES 145 

Creamed Onions 

I peck onions 3 quarts White Sauce II 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions, drain, and add to 
white sauce. 

Scalloped Onions 

I peck onions 3 quarts White Sauce I 

J teaspoon pepper i quart buttered crumbs 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions. If onions are large, 
cut them in quarters after boiling. Put into six buttered 
baking dishes, adding white sauce, pepper, and more salt 
if needed, cover with crumbs, and bake until crumbs are 
slightly browned. 

Sauted Onions 
I peck onions or more -J teaspoon pepper 
i^ cups butter Salt if needed 

Prepare and cook as Boiled Onions, but be careful that 
they keep their shape. Melt one-half cup butter in frying 
pan, turn in one-third of the onions, sprinkle with pepper, 
and salt if needed, cook until slightly browned, then put 
in serving dishes. Repeat until all the onions are browned. 
Fewer onions may be browned at a time if necessary. 

Parsnips with Drawn Butter Sauce 

14 pounds parsnips $ quarts water 

I J cups butter 3 teaspoons salt 

i^ cups flour -J teaspoon pepper 

Wash and scrape parsnips, and cut in one-half inch 
slices lengthwise, then cut slices crosswise in three-inch 
lengths, or thereabouts. Cook in salted water until tender, 



146 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

but not broken. If preferred, the parsnips may be cut 
after boiling. Melt butter, add flour, stir until smooth, 
then add boiling water. Boil five minutes, season, and 
pour over parsnips. 

Sauted Parsnips 

Wash and scrape parsnips, cook in salted water, and 
drain. They should be slightly underdone. Cut in slices 
lengthwise and brown in pork fat or butter. 

Canned Peas 

2 No. 10 cans peas 2 tablespoons salt 

I cup butter 4 tablespoons sugar 

J teaspoon pepper 

Turn peas carefully into colander, rinse well with cold 
water, and put into double boiler. Melt butter and mix 
well with seasonings, pour over peas. Cook one hour or 
until very hot. Do not stir peas, or they will be crushed 
and unattractive in appearance ; shake kettle two or three 
times instead. 

Stuffed Peppers 

25 large green peppers 2-| quarts minced veal, 
2-J quarts crumbs chicken, or chopped 

■J cup chopped onion nuts 

Salt to taste 

Choose mild peppers of uniform size, cut in two length- 
wise, remove seeds and tough white portions. Wash and 
cook in boiling water five minutes. Cook onion in butter 
until soft. Crumble stale, not dried, bread, and mix with 
butter and onion. Add chopped meat or nuts, salt to taste, 



VEGETABLES 147 

and stock to moisten so that it will pack. Fill peppers 
rounding full, sprinkle with buttered crumbs, place in drip- 
ping pans with water or stock to cover bottom of pans. 
Bake in moderate oven thirty minutes, or until done^ 
Serve with Plain Tomato or Brown Sauce. 



Succotash 

4 quarts canned or boiled 4 quarts green beans or 

sweet corn 2 quarts dried Lima beans 

3 tablespoons salt J teaspoon pepper 

I cup butter 

Cut hot or cold boiled sweet corn from cob, or use 
canned corn. If dried beans are used, soak them over 
night, drain, and cook slowly in water to barely cover 
until soft. The beans should be soft and whole, and the 
water cooked down to a creamy consistency. If there is 
a great deal of liquid, drain off some of it. Mix beans 
and corn, add seasonings, and let simmer five minutes 
before serving. 

Winter Squash 

30 or more pounds squash Salt to taste 
I cup butter Sugar if needed 

Cut squash in halves, remove seeds and stringy portions,, 
place in dripping pans, cover, and bake from two to two 
and one-half hours in moderate oven. Remove from shell 
with iron spoon, mash, and season to taste. 

Squash may be cut in pieces, freed from seeds and 
stringy parts, pared, and steamed until soft, then mashed 
and seasoned as above. 



148 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

6 quarts canned tomatoes 3 quarts stale crumbs 

2 cups melted butter i cup sugar 

3 tablespoons salt i teaspoon pepper 

The bread should not be dried, but any stale crumbs or 
crusts that can be grated or crumbled with fingers may 
be used; mix with melted butter. Put one cup prepared 
crumbs in bottom of each of six baking dishes. Mix 
seasonings with tomato, then turn into dishes. Cover with 
remaining crumbs. Bake about an hour in moderate oven, 
being careful not to let crumbs burn. 

Scalloped Turnip 

13! pounds white turnip 3 quarts White Sauce I 

Wash turnips, remove a thick paring, cut in half-inch 
cubes, and cook in salted water until soft. Drain, put into 
six baking dishes, pour over the white sauce, cover with 
buttered crumbs, using one quart in all. Bake long enough 
to brown crumbs. 

Turnips New York Style 

12 to 14 pounds yellow 3 cups butter melted 

turnip I teaspoon pepper 

6 tablespoons finely- Salt if needed 
chopped parsley 

Pare turnips, removing a thick paring, cut in half -inch 
cubes, and boil one and one-half hours, or until soft. 
Drain, put into serving dishes, pour over butter mixed 
with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with parsley. 



VEGETABLES 149 

Curried Vegetables 

2 quarts diced potatoes i-J cups butter 
2 quarts diced carrots ij cups flour 
2 quarts diced turnips 2 diced onions 
2 small cans peas i teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons minced ij tablespoons salt 
parsley ij tablespoons curry 

3 quarts milk 
Cook carrots, white turnips, and potatoes separately in 
salted water until soft. 

Cook onion slowly in butter until soft and yellow, add 
flour mixed with seasonings, stir until smooth, add hot 
milk, stirring constantly until smooth. Cook in double 
boiler thirty minutes. Add vegetables, heat well, turn into 
serving dishes, and sprinkle with parsley. 

Macedoine o£ Vegetables 

2 quarts diced carrots i quart string beans 

I quart diced white turnips 2 quarts diced potatoes 
I quart green peas 3 quarts Bechamel or 

I quart flageolet beans White Sauce II 

Cut carrots, turnips, and potatoes in half-inch dice, 
string beans in half -inch pieces. The vegetables should 
be cooked separately in boiling water and drained before 
adding to sauce. Add more seasonings if needed. Mix 
lightly and carefully to prevent breaking vegetables. 

Creamed Potatoes 

6 or 8 quarts cold diced 3 or 4 quarts White 

potatoes Sauce II 

J teaspoon pepper Chopped parsley 

Cut cold boiled or baked potatoes in half -inch cubes. 

Reheat in white sauce, add pepper, and sprinkle with 

chopped parsley if desired. 



.150 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

8 quarts diced potatoes 3 tablespoons salt 

J cup chopped onion -J teaspoon pepper 

2| cups bacon fat or 8 tablespoons chopped 
butter parsley 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in half-inch cubes or in slices. 
Cook onion slowly in bacon fat or butter until soft, but 
not brown. Add potatoes and seasonings, and cook until 
fat is absorbed and potatoes well heated and slightly 
browned. Sprinkle with parsley just before serving. Use 
two or three frying pans, and do not put potatoes on to 
cook until about fifteen or twenty minutes before they are 
to be served. 

Hashed Brow^n Potatoes 

8 quarts chopped cold i teaspoon pepper 

cooked potatoes 2 tablespoons salt, or more 

2^ cups salt pork fat if needed 

Mix finely-chopped potatoes, melted pork fat, pepper, 
and salt to taste. Spread in shallow frying or baking pans 
.and cook on range or in oven until brown underneath. 
Fold like omelet. 



Creamed Potatoes with Eggs 

5 quarts cold diced 3 quarts White Sauce I 

potatoes 24 hard-cooked eggs 

•J teaspoon pepper 

Add diced potatoes and chopped whites to sauce and 
reheat. Turn into serving dishes and strain yolks over top. 



VEGETABLES 15 I 

Potato Cakes 

Shape cold mashed potatoes in round, flat cakes, dredge 
with flour or not as preferred, and saute in a very small 
amount of pork or bacon fat in frying pans or on griddle. 

Delmonico Potatoes 

6 quarts cold diced 3 quarts White Sauce I 

potatoes or 3 cups grated cheese 

9 pounds peeled raw ones i quart buttered crumbs 
I teaspoon paprika 

Cook potatoes in salted water until soft, but not broken. 
When perfectly cold, cut in half-inch cubes. Grate cheese, 
sprinkle with paprika, and dissolve in sauce. Put potatoes 
in six baking dishes, pour over the sauce, lifting potatoes 
carefully with fork until sauce is well distributed. Cover 
with crumbs and brown delicately in moderate oven. 

Baked Potatoes 

Scrub thoroughly one and one-half pecks potatoes of 
uniform size. Trim off any imperfections, put into drip- 
ping pans, and bake in moderately hot oven from one and 
one-half to two hours, for potatoes of medium size. 

Austrian Potatoes 

15 pounds (i peck) -J cup lemon juice 

potatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

3 cups melted butter i teaspoon paprika 

^ teaspoon pepper 

Wash, pare, and cut potatoes in one-eighth inch slices. 
Parboil two minutes in salted water. Drain, put in drip- 



152 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ping pans to depth of about two inches. Bake one hour, 
or until potatoes are soft, basting with butter which has 
been mixed with seasonings. 

Hongroise Potatoes 

10 pounds potatoes cut 6 tablespoons chopped 

in half -inch cubes parsley 

i-J cups butter 4 teaspoons salt 

I J cups flour I teaspoon paprika 

J teaspoon onion juice 3 quarts milk 
6 egg yolks 

Weigh potatoes after peeling. Cook in salted water 
until soft, but not broken. Melt butter, add onion juice 
and flour, and stir until smooth. Add hot milk, stirring 
until smooth, then cook thirty minutes in double boiler. 
Add very gradually to beaten yolks about a quart of hot 
sauce, then return to double boiler, stirring hard until 
smooth. Turn potatoes into serving dishes, pour over 
them the sauce, to which salt and paprika have been added, 
and sprinkle with parsley. 

Mashed Potatoes 

15 pounds (i peck) i quart milk or more 

potatoes I cup butter 

5 tablespoons salt 

Pare potatoes and put into cold water until time for 
cooking. If uneven in size, cut large ones in two. Cook 
in boiling salted water until soft, drain, put through ricer, 
add seasonings, and hot milk in which butter has been 
melted. Beat until creamy, and add more salt or milk 
if needed. 



VEGETABLES 153 

Mock Potato Puff 

Add enough hot milk to Mashed Potatoes to make them 
a Httle too moist to serve as mashed potatoes, pile lightly 
and unevenly in baking dishes, and put in hot oven long 
enough to brown slightly. Serve in same dishes. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

10 pounds (6 quarts) ij cups butter 

sliced potatoes 3 tablespoons salt 

2 quarts hot milk i teaspoon pepper 

■J cup flour 

Peel potatoes before weighing; peel and slice before 
measuring. If potatoes are very large, cut them in two 
lengthwise before slicing. Parboil two minutes to remove 
strong flavor, drain. Put into six baking dishes a layer 
of potato, then a slight dredging of flour; repeat until 
potatoes are used. Dissolve salt, pepper, and butter in hot 
milk, pour over potatoes, cover, and cook in slow oven 
one and one-half hours, or until done. Remove covers 
long enough to brown potatoes delicately. 

Potatoes Baked with Bacon 

Pare one peck potatoes, remove centers lengthwise with 
apple corer. Slice bacon very thin and put a piece in each 
cavity. Place potatoes in dripping pans and bake one and 
one-half hours, or until done, basting occasionally with 
bacon fat. The centers may be used for mashed potatoes. 

Franconia Potatoes 

Pare one peck potatoes of uniform size; if very large, 
cut them in two. Parboil ten minutes, drain, put in drip- 



154 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

ping pans. Pour over them melted beef drippings, and 
bake about one and one-half hours, basting several times 
vi^ith fat in pan. The potatoes should be golden brown all 
over. Serve with roast meat. 

Maitre d'Hotel Potatoes 

15 pounds small potatoes i teaspoon pepper 
3 cups butter 6 tablespoons chopped 

2 tablespoons salt parsley 

4 cup lemon juice 

Choose quite small, uniform potatoes, old or new ; peel 
and cook in salted water until soft, but not broken. Drain, 
put in serving dishes, add sauce, and put dishes in oven 
long enough to melt butter. To make sauce, cream butter, 
add seasonings, and lemon juice very slowly. 

Broiled Potatoes 

15 pounds potatoes 2 tablespoons salt 

2 cups butter or pork fat i teaspoon pepper 

Peel potatoes and cook in salted water until nearly, but 
not quite, done. Cut in two or three slices lengthwise, 
lay in dripping pans, dot over with butter, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cook in broiler until done and slightly 
browned on both sides. Use more butter if needed. 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 

20 pounds (ij pecks) 3 cups sugar 
sweet potatoes i J cups water 

6 tablespoons butter 

Wash and pare potatoes. Cook ten minutes in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, put in 



VEGETABLES 155 

shallow pans. Cook sugar and water together two minutes, 
add butter, and brush potatoes. Bake about forty-five 
minutes, basting with remaining syrup. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

6 quarts mashed potatoes -J teaspoon pepper 
ij cups butter 4 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons salt 12 eggs or 24 yolks 

Mix ingredients thoroughly, cool, shape, roll in crumbs, 
egg, and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. This makes about one 
hundred large croquettes. 



/# 



CHEESE DISHES 

Scalloped Cheese 



5 quarts milk 

4 quarts dried or stale 

bread in pieces 
I or more pounds cheese 



5 tablespoons butter 
3 tablespoons salt 
I teaspoon paprika 
12 to i6 eggs 



Heat milk and pour over bread, which should be quite 
stale, or even dried. Add grated or chopped cheese, cool. 
Add salt, pepper, melted butter, and well-beaten eggs. 
Mix well, pour into buttered baking dishes, and bake 
slowly one and one-half hours, or until done. Serve grape 
jelly with it. 



Cheese Fondue 



2 quarts scalded milk 
2 quarts soft, stale bread 

crumbs 
2 pounds mild American 

cheese 



•J cup butter 
4 teaspoons mustard 
4 teaspoons salt 
I teaspoon paprika 
24 eggs 



Grate or chop cheese. Mix first six ingredients together, 
add well-beaten yolks, cut and fold in stiffly-beaten whites. 
Pour into six buttered baking dishes and bake thirty 
minutes in moderate oven. 



156 



CHEESE DISHES 157 

Cheese Cream Toast 

' 2 cups butter 4 quarts milk 

2-J cups flour I pound or more cheese 

4 teaspoons salt -J teaspoon paprika 

Make a sauce of the first four ingredients, following 
directions for making White Sauces. Add grated or 
chopped cheese, stir till smooth. Serve on carefully 
browned toast which has been dipped in hot water. Very 
nice served with crisp bacon as a garnish. 



■ x 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

A DINNER salad should be of lettuce, chiccory, Romaine, 
watercress, cucumbers, tomatoes, or other light vegetables, 
served with French Dressing. 

Luncheon salads should be of meat, fish, eggs, or the 
more nutritious vegetables, especially if served as the main 
course. 

All salad plants should be thoroughly washed, and kept 
on ice or in a cold place until served. Shake and wipe dry 
with cheesecloth. The dressing may be added just before 
sending to table or served at table. Green vegetables wilt 
very quickly after the dressing is added. 

Meats or vegetables should be cut in one-half inch cubes, 
and marinated separately with French Dressing for an 
hour or so before using. Drain off any dressing not 
absorbed before mixing with other dressing. Fish should 
be flaked, or cut in cubes or uniform pieces. 

There are many simple and suitable garnishes for 
salads, but care should be taken that harmonious colors 
as well as flavors are combined in a salad. 

Hard-cooked eggs, radishes, and stuft'ed olives sliced 
crosswise ; canned Spanish peppers, carrots, and beets cut 
in cubes or fancy shapes ; olives, capers, and shredded 
green peppers — all are attractive garnishes, if used 
judiciously. 



158 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 159 

Boiled Dressing 

2 tablespoons salt 4 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons mustard 6 well-beaten eggs 

1 cup sugar -J cup melted butter 
J teaspoon pepper 4 cups hot milk 

J teaspoon paprika ij cups hot vinegar 

Mix dry ingredients, add beaten eggs, pour on hot milk, 
stirring constantly. Return to double boiler and cook until 
mixture thickens, adding butter when nearly done. Re- 
move from fire and add hot vinegar. Be careful not to 
overcook dressing, or it will curdle. If it does curdle, 
remove from hot water and beat hard with Dover egg 
beater, as that will sometimes restore smoothness. 

Cream Dressing 

2 tablespoons salt 4 eggs or 8 yolks 
i^ tablespoons mustard 4 tablespoons butter 
5 tablespoons sugar 3-J cups milk 

5 tablespoons flour f cup vinegar' 

•J teaspoon pepper ij cups heavy cream 

Make as Boiled Dressing. When cold, fold in cream 
which has been beaten until stiff. If dressing is to be 
used with fruit, lemon juice instead of vinegar is an 
improvement. 

Sour Cream Dressing 

2j tablespoons salt 4 well-beaten eggs 

2 tablespoons mustard i quart sour cream 

6 tablespoons sugar i teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons flour i cup vinegar 

Mix cream and beaten eggs ; mix dry ingredients thor- 
oughly, add vinegar, combine mixtures, and cook in double 
boiler until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. 



l6o RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

French Dressing 

I J tablespoons salt -J teaspooH pepper 

I teaspoon mustard i cup vinegar or lemon 

1 teaspoon paprika juice 

2 cups olive oil 

Rub bottom of wide-mouthed pitcher with onion. Put 
all ingredients into pitcher and beat until creamy with 
Dover egg beater. Serve at once. 

Creole French Dressing 

2 cups olive oil ^ cup finely-chopped 



I J cups vinegar 


parsley 


2 teaspoons powdered 


I tablespoon chopped 


sugar 


red pepper 


J cup finely-chopped 


2 tablespoons chopped 


onion 


green pepper 


4 teaspoons 


salt 



Mix ingredients in order given, let stand one hour, then 
beat vigorously five minutes. Serve at once. 



Cream French Dressing 

4 teaspoons salt i cup lemon juice or 

■J teaspoon pepper vinegar 

I teaspoon paprika 2 cups olive oil 

1 4 cups heavy cream 

Mix ingredients in a wide-mouthed pitcher and beat 
with Dover egg beater until creamy. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS l6r 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

I teaspoon mustard i pint olive oil 

1 teaspoon powdered sugar i tablespoon vinegar 

2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons lemon 
•J teaspoon paprika juice 

I teaspoon pepper 2 egg yolks 

2 egg whites 

Mix dry ingredients, stir in yolks of eggs, then beat in,, 
drop by drop, a little oil, using Mayonnaise mixer or an 
egg beater. When mixture begins to thicken, add a few 
drops acid, then more oil, and so continue alternating until 
oil is all used. If oil is added too rapidly, mixture will 
curdle. A smooth consistency may be restored by adding 
curdled mixture slowly to yolk of another egg. Stir in 
stiffly-beaten whites. A good quality of cottonseed salad 
oil may be used in place of olive oil, with very satisfactory 
results and at a low cost. This oil is wholesome and cheap, 
and should be used freely in its undisguised form, instead 
of paying for so-called olive oil which is often adulterated 
with cottonseed oil. If the dressing is not to be used at 
once, keep tightly covered in cold place. Before using, 
remove any drops of oil that have collected on top of 
dressing, or on sides of dish, to prevent curdling. 

Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Add to Mayonnaise Dressing, in place of whites of eggs, 
one cup thick cream beaten until stiff. This should be used 
the day it is made. 



l62 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Apple and Celery Salad 

4 quarts apples Cream or Cream Mayon- 

2 quarts celery naise Dressing 

I cup lemon juice 

Cut apples in one-half inch cubes, and celery in pieces 
of the same size, before measuring. Marinate apples with 
lemon juice or French Dressing, as fast as cut, to prevent 
discoloration. Just before serving mix apple, celery, and 
Cream or Cream Mayonnaise Dressing. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves and put a spoonful of dressing on top of 
each serving. One cup of English walnut meats, broken 
in pieces, may be added, if desired. 

Apple and Banana Salad 

4 quarts apples Cream or Cream Mayon- 

8 large bananas naise 

■J cup lemon juice 

Cut apples in quarters, then in one-fourth inch slices ; 
cut bananas in slices. Mix and serve as Apple and Celery 
Salad. French Dressing may be used instead of lemon 
juice for marinating fruit. 

Banana and Nut Salad 

Cut bananas in two lengthwise, lay each piece on a bed 
of lettuce leaves, mask with Cream or Cream Mayonnaise 
Dressing, and sprinkle with chopped nuts — English wal- 
nuts, pecans, or peanuts. 

Cucumber Salad 

Peel and slice eight large or twelve small crisp cucum- 
bers, pile on lettuce leaves, and serve with French or 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 163 

Creole Dressing. This salad may be varied by combining 
with sliced radishes, shredded green peppers, or shredded 
Bermuda onions. 

Cabbage Salad 

8 pounds cabbage Boiled Dressing 

Remove outside leaves and stalks from solid, heavy 
heads of cabbage. Cut in quarters, soak for an hour or 
so in cold water. Drain, wipe dry, shred or chop fine, 
mix with Boiled or Sour Cream Dressing, and serve in 
salad bowls or cabbage shells. 

Cabbage and Celery Salad 

4 pounds cabbage Boiled, Sour Cream, or 

4 quarts celery Cream Dressing 

Shred cabbage fine and cut celery stalks in thin slices 
crosswise. Mix and serve as Cabbage Salad. 

Cheese Salad 

Cut Neufchatel cheese in small cubes and serve on 
lettuce leaves or watercress, with French, Creole, or Cream 
French Dressing. 

Or mix cheese with very finely-chopped parsley, lettuce,. 
or watercress, or with paprika, and shape in small balls. 

Uplands Salad 

12 Neufchatel cheeses f cup chopped nuts 

f cup chopped olives i teaspoon salt 

f cup chopped green i teaspoon paprika 
peppers 

Chop olives, mild peppers, and English walnuts very 
fine. Mix all ingredients thoroughly, pack in oblong 



1> 



164 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

form, let stand two hours or more. Cut in one-half inch 
slices and break or cut each slice in cubes, serve on lettuce 
leaves with French or Cream French Dressing. Cottage 
cheese may be used instead of Neufchatel. 

Cheese and Pineapple Salad 

6 Neufchatel cheeses French or 

2 No. 3 cans pineapple Cream French Dressing 

Cut cheese and pineapple in one-half inch cubes, arrange 
on lettuce leaves, and serve with French or Cream French 
Dressing. 

Chicken Salad 

5 quarts chicken or 5 quarts celery 

chicken and veal I cup French Dressing 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Cut cold boiled or roasted chicken in one-half inch cubes 
or pieces and marinate with French Dressing. Cut celery 
in half-inch pieces. Just before serving, mix chicken and 
celery, pile on lettuce leaves, and put a tablespoonful 
dressing on top of each serving. Garnish with hard-cooked 
«ggs. 

Daisy Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in two crosswise, remove yolks 
without breaking whites, and rub through strainer. Cut 
-each half of whites in eight sections lengthwise. Arrange 
lettuce for individual servings, put a spoonful of Mayon- 
naise, Boiled, or Sour Cream Dressing in center of each. 
Place around dressing the white segments, to form petals, 
and sprinkle over dressing the yolks, which have been 
mixed with salt and pepper and rubbed through a strainer. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 165 

Egg Salad 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in slices, place on lettuce leaves, 
and put a spoonful of Mayonnaise or Boiled Dressing on 
top of each serving. 

Fruit Salad 

2 dozen oranges 2 No. 3 cans pineapple 

2 dozen bananas 6 heads lettuce 

Peel bananas and cut in one-fourth inch slices. Peel 
oranges and separate pulp from each section. Drain pine- 
apple and cut in one-half inch cubes. Malaga grapes may 
be used in place of part of the oranges and bananas. Com- 
bine fruits, mix with French Dressing, and serve on lettuce 
leaves. 

Macedoine Salad 

2 quarts string beans 2 quarts carrots or beets 

2 quarts peas or flageolets 6 heads lettuce 

Any left-over vegetables, in any proportion, may be used 
instead of those given. Cut string beans in inch pieces, 
carrots and beets in one-half inch cubes. Marinate each 
vegetable separately with French Dressing. Arrange 
lettuce for individual servings, put a small mound of peas 
or flageolets in center, surround with string beans, and 
scatter over top a spoonful of carrot or beet cubes. Serve 
with French or Creole Dressing. 

Tomato Salad 

Tomatoes for salad should be ripe and firm. About 
one peck will be required. Plunge into boiling water for 
a few seconds, peel, cut out stem, and chill. Just before 



l66 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

using, cut in halves, or in half -inch slices crosswise, or 
in six sections lengthwise. Place on lettuce leaves and 
serve with French, Creole, or Cream French Dressing. 
Mayonnaise Dressing is also used sometimes. 

Tomato Salad may be varied in many ways, of which 
a few are suggested below. 

Tomato and Pepper. Wash four large, mild green 
peppers, remove seeds and white membranes, cut cross- 
wise in thin shreds or slices, and use as garnish. 

Tomato and Cucumber. Pare six cucumbers, cut in 
dice, and put a spoonful over tomatoes. 

Tomato and Cheese. Cut tomatoes in halves and place 
each on a bed of lettuce leaves. Put on top a few small 
cubes or balls of Neufchatel cheese. Shredded pepper may 
be added if desired. 



Potato Salad 

9 quarts potato cubes 2i cups olive oil or 

1 quart celery melted butter 
5 tablespoons salt I J cups vinegar 

2 teaspoons pepper J cup chopped green 
I teaspoon paprika peppers 

2 onions finely minced 

Sour cucumber pickles cut in one-half inch cubes may 
be used in place of a part of the vinegar, and celery salt 
in place of the celery. Mix ingredients thoroughly but 
carefully, let stand thirty minutes or so to chill. Serve in 
salad bowl. Garnish with watercress or parsley ; and with 
hard-cooked eggs, chopped pimientos, or stuffed olives cut 
in thin slices. Boiled or Mayonnaise Dressing may be 
served with this salad if desired. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 167 

Salmon Salad I 

6 pint cans salmon 6 cups cucumber pickles 

3 quarts coarsely-chopped cut in pieces 

cabbage 6 tablespoons vinegar 

1 tablespoon celery salt I teaspoon paprika 

2 tablespoons salt 24 hard-cooked eggs 

Remove bones and skin from salmon and break in 
pieces. Cut pickles and eggs in pieces. Mix all ingredi- 
ents together. Garnish with watercress or celery tops. 
Serve in salad bowls or on platters. 

Salmon Salad II 

8 pint cans salmon or 6 heads lettuce 

4 quarts flaked fresh fish Mayonnaise Dressing 

Drain salmon, remove bones and skin, and break in 
pieces. If fresh fish is used, remove bones and skin and 
flake carefully, or cut neatly in pieces. Pile salmon on 
lettuce leaves and put over each serving a spoonful of 
dressing. 



PASTRY 

Plain Paste 

3 quarts flour 2| cups lard 

4 teaspoons salt Cold water 

Mix flour and salt. Add lard, and chop or cut or rub 
with tips of fingers until well mixed. Moisten to a stiff 
dough with cold water, being careful not to use too much. 
No matter how much shortening is used, if too much 
moisture is added, the crust will be hard and tough. The 
dough should be so dry that it is really difficult to roll. 
If pies are to have an upper crust, reserve two tablespoons 
lard and dot over upper crusts just before putting in oven. 
This gives pies a flaky appearance. 

In making pies with two crusts, the upper crust should 
always be perforated to allow escape of steam. The lower 
crust should be moistened with water around edge before 
pressing together the two edges, in order to prevent 
separation. This quantity of paste makes enough for eight 
or nine pies with two crusts. 

Always bake pies on bottom of range oven or on lower 
grate of gas oven, never on upper grate of oven, or lower 
crust will be underdone. 

Apple Pie 

4i cups iM i gar CUo|o)ft- I teaspoon butter 

J teaspoon nutmeg or -J teaspoon salt 

cinnamon i cup sugar 

Line plates with paste. Pare, core, and cut apples in 
eighths. Mix sugar, salt, and spice; put part of sugar 

i68 



PASTRY 169 

in bottom of plates, fill with apples, cover with remaining 
sugar. Dot over top with bits of butter. Moisten edges 
of lower crusts, put on upper crusts, and press edges firmly 
together. Use above proportions for each pie. 

Pumpkin Pie 

2 quarts milk 4J cups sugar 

12 eggs 6 tablespoons molasses 

3 cans or 3 quarts 2 tablespoons salt 

pumpkin 2 tablespoons ginger 

2 tablespoons cinnamon 

Steam pumpkin and rub through sieve, or use canned. 
Mix sugar, salt, and spices, add pumpkin, beaten eggs, 
milk, and molasses. Bake slowly forty to fifty minutes, 
or until knife comes out clean. This quantity makes eight 
or nine pies. 

Lemon Pie 

7 scant cups sugar if cups lemon juice o \- y 

7 cups boiling water 3 tablespoons butter 

if cups cornstarch 9 lemons 

18 egg yolks i cup powdered sugar 

■J teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Mix cornstarch, sale, and sugar, add boiling water, 
stirring constantly. Cook five minutes and add gradually 
to egg yolks. Add butter, grated rind and juice of lemons. 
Line eight or nine plates with paste, turn in cooled mix- 
ture, bake until pastry is done. Cool slightly, cover with 
meringue made as follows : 

Meringue. Beat egg whites until stiff, add powdered 
sugar gradually, and continue beating, then add flavoring. 
Pile lightly on pies, leaving surface uneven ; bake fifteen 
minutes in slow oven. 



1^0 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

« 

Custard Pie 

24 eggs I teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar 4 quarts milk 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt, and milk. Line 
plates with crust, building up fluted rims, and fill with 
mixture. Grate nutmeg over top. Place in hot oven at 
first to set crust. Decrease heat quickly. Bake in slow 
oven until custard is firm in center. This quantity makes 
eight deep pies. 

Blueberry Pie 

6 quarts berries 4 teaspoons vinegar 

2 quarts sugar i teaspoon salt 

Line eight or nine plates with crust. Mix sugar, salt, 
and one cup of flour. Fill crusts with berries, add sugar 
and vinegar, cover with crust, and bake until berries are 
done and crust slightly browned. 

Blackberry or Raspberry Pie 

Use recipe for Blueberry Pie, omitting vinegar and one- 
half the flour. 

Mock Cherry Pie 

4 quarts cranberries 2| quarts sugar 

I J quarts stoned raisins 2 J cups water 

•J cup flour 4 tablespoons butter 

Put cranberries and raisins through meat chopper, mix 
with sugar, flour, and water. Line plates with crust, put 
in filling, dot over with butter, cover with crust, and bake 
in moderate oven. 



PASTRY 171 

Cranberry Tart Filling 

6 cups cranberries 6 cups sugar 

3 cups stoned raisins 3 cups water 

Put berries and raisins through meat chopper. Cook all 
ingredients together until of consistency of jam, add six 
teaspoons vanilla. Cool, and use as filling for tarts. 

Mince Meat 

I J quarts chopped meat 2 tablespoons cinnamon 



2j quarts chopped apple 


14 


teaspoons mace 


I quart brown sugar 


li 


teaspoons cloves 


j quart granulated sugar 


3 
4 


cup vinegar 


2 cups raisins 


3 


oranges 


2 cups currants 


3 


lemons 


3 cups molasses 


1 


pound citron chopped 


3 cups meat liquor 


I 


tablespoon lemon 


Salt to taste 




extract 



I teaspoon almond extract 

Mix ingredients except oranges, lemons, and flavoring, 
and cook slowly two hours, or until done. Add grated rind 
and juice of lemons and oranges, and extract. 



HOT DESSERTS 

Apple Tapioca 

3 cups minute tapioca 2 teaspoons salt 

3 quarts boiling water 2 cups sugar 

f peck apples 

Add salt and boiling water to tapioca and cook in double 
boiler until transparent. Pare, quarter, and core tart 
apples, put into buttered baking dishes, add sugar and 
tapioca. Bake an hour or more in moderate oven. The 
apples should be quite soft. Serve warm with sugar and 
cream. 

Prune Pudding 

4 quarts milk 2 cups sugar 

I J cups cornstarch 4 teaspoons vanilla 
18 egg yolks 3 pounds prunes 

3 teaspoons salt 18 egg whites 

Soak prunes twenty-four hours or more in water to 
barely cover them. Cook in same water in double boiler 
until soft ; remove stones. Mix cornstarch, salt, and sugar,, 
add hot milk, and cook in double boiler thirty minutes, 
stirring often. Add mixture to beaten yolks, stirring until 
smooth. Put prunes into buttered baking dishes, pour 
over them the custard, bake twenty-five minutes in slow 
oven. Make meringue of egg whites and one cup of sugar 
beaten until stiff, pile lightly on prune mixture, bake in 
very slow oven until slightly browned. Serve warm or 
cold. 

172 



HOT DESSERTS 175 

Cream of Rice Pudding 

f cup rice | cup sugar 

2 quarts milk J teaspoon salt 

J teaspoon cinnamon 

Prepare above proportions for each one of three baking 
dishes. Wash rice, mix ingredients, put into buttered 
baking dishes, and bake slowly from four to five hours, 
or until of a creamy consistency. During first hour stir 
occasionally with a fork. If cooked too fast it will curdle. 
Serve quite warm or very cold. 



Indian Pudding 

4-J quarts scalded milk 2 cups molasses 

i^ cups Indian meal 4 teaspoons salt 

4 teaspoons ginger 

Add milk slowly to corn meal, cook twenty minutes in 
double boiler, add molasses, salt, and ginger. Pour into 
buttered baking dishes and bake three or four hours in 
slow oven. It will not whey if baked too rapidly. Serve 
with cream. 

Cracker Pudding 

I J pounds crackers J cup butter 

5 quarts scalded milk 5 teaspoons salt 
10 eggs 5 teaspoons cinnamon 

5 cups brown sugar 2 teaspoons nutmeg 
3 cups plumped raisins 

Split crackers, spread with butter, add hot milk, and 
let stand an hour or more. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar 



174 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

mixed with spices, and turn into cracker mixture; add 
raisins. Put into buttered baking dishes, bake slowly one 
hour, or until knife comes out clean. The deeper the bak- 
ing dish the longer the. time required for baking. Stir 
occasionally during first half hour. Serve with Vanilla 
Sauce. 

Orange Marmalade Pudding 

4 quarts fine bread 4 quarts milk 

crumbs 18 eggs 

I quart sugar f cup butter 

4 cups orange marmalade 

Cream butter and sugar together, add beaten yolks, 
milk, bread crumbs, and whites beaten to a froth. Put a 
layer in bottom of buttered baking dishes, spread with 
marmalade, then another layer of the custard mixture, 
then one of marmalade, and finish with the custard. Serve 
with sweetened cream or custard sauce. 

Caramel Bread Pudding 

2j cups sugar 10 well-beaten eggs 

f cup water 3 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts hot milk 5 pints dry bread in small 
•| cup melted butter pieces 

Caramelize sugar, add water, and stir until dissolved, 
then add to hot milk^ Turn milk over bread, add salt and 
butter. When lukewarm, add eggs, turn into shallow 
baking dishes, and bake slowly forty-five minutes, or until 
knife comes out clean. Serve with whipped cream and 
caramel sauce made as follows: Caramelize three cups 
sugar until light brown, add three cups water, and simmer 
fifteen minutes, or to a thick syrup. 



HOT DESSERTS 175 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

2 J quarts stale bread lo ounces chocolate 
t) crumbs or dry bread 3 cups sugar 

in small pieces 10 eggs well beaten 
5 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

5 teaspoons vanilla 

Soak bread in hot milk until soft. Melt chocolate in 
saucepan over hot water, add one-half the sugar, and milk 
enough (from the bread and milk) to pour. Mix all in- 
gredients, turn into shallow baking dishes, and bake slowly- 
one hour, or until knife comes out clean. Serve with 
Hard or Sunshine Sauce, or with whipped cream. 

Spiced Pudding 

2-J quarts dried bread in 2 cups sugar 

small pieces 3 teaspoons salt 

5 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons mixed spice 
2 cups molasses (cinnamon, cloves, all- 

2 cups raisins spice, nutmeg) 

Soak bread in milk until soft, add other ingredients, and 
mix well. Put into shallow baking dishes and bake slowly 
one hour, or until knife comes out clean. Stir two or three 
times during first fifteen minutes. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Prune Whip 

4 pounds prunes 24 egg whites 

2 pounds sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Soak prunes over night in water to barely cover, cook 
in double boiler until soft, stone, and rub through puree 



176 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Strainer. The mixture should be quite thick. Add sugar, 
and fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs and lemon juice. 
Put into baking dishes and bake about twenty minutes in 
slow oven. Serve hot or cold, with Soft Custard Sauce 
or sweetened whipped cream. 

Other fruits may be used instead of prunes. 



Baked Chocolate Pudding 

ij cups butter 6 cups flour 

6 cups sugar 3 tablespoons baking 

6 eggs powder 

6 cups milk ij pounds chocolate 

Cream butter, add sugar, and mix well, then stir in 
well-beaten eggs. Dissolve chocolate over hot water, add 
milk, combine the two mixtures, and add flour which has 
been sifted with baking powder. If put into six baking 
dishes, it will require about forty minutes in moderate 
oven for baking. Serve at once, as it falls as soon as it 
begins to cool. Serve with Sunshine Sauce. 

Honeycomb Pudding 

5 cups sugar 2j cups butter 

5 cups flour 2j cups lukewarm milk 

5 cups molasses 5 teaspoons soda 

20 well-beaten eggs 

Mix sugar and flour and add molasses. Melt butter in 
milk and add soda. Combine mixtures and add eggs. 
Turn into well-greased oblong pans and bake in moderate 
oven. Ser\e at once with Cream Sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS 177 

Apple Dumplings 

3 quarts flour i-| cups shortening 

2 tablespoons baking 2 tablespoons salt 

powder 3 cups sugar 

3 cups water 50 apples 

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together ; work in 
shortening and add water to moisten enough to roll out. 
Cut paste in rounds one- fourth inch in thickness, place 
an apple in center of each, fill cavity with sugar and cinna- 
mon or nutmeg, draw paste around apple, folding and 
pinching edges together, place in pan rough side down. 
Bake forty-five to sixty minutes. When about half done, 
pour boiling water around apples to depth of one-half inch. 
The apples should be quite soft; they may be tested by 
pricking with fork. 

Serve with Vanilla, Lemon, or Nutmeg Sauce, or with 
sugar and cream. 

Egg Roll 

3 quarts flour 3 cups milk or milk and 

6 eggs water 

4 J teaspoons salt ij cups shortening 

6 tablespoons baking powder 

Sift dry ingredients together, cut or rub in shortening, 
add milk gradually, mixing to as soft a dough as can be 
handled. Sometimes a little more or less milk must be 
used to make it of the right consistency. This is nice for 
shortcake and puddings. Brush over top of crust with 
milk or white of egg and sprinkle with sugar. Bake in hot 
oven. 



178 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Baked Apple Pudding 

I peck apples 3 teaspoons cinnamon or 

I^ quarts sugar nutmeg 

Egg Roll 

Peel, quarter, and core apples. Fill baking dishes half 
full, add sugar, spice, and water to come half way to top. 
Cover and bake until about half done. Roll Egg Roll 
mixture to one-half inch in thickness and of a size to fit 
baking dishes, make an opening in center, cover apple, and 
bake thirty minutes, or until done, in hot oven. Serve with 
Vanilla or Nutmeg Sauce, or with cream and maple syrup. 
Canned or fresh peaches or berries may be used in the 
same way. Serve with the fruit on top. 



Dutch 


Apple Cake 


2 quarts flour 4 eggs 
2 teaspoons salt i cup shortening 
6 tablespoons baking 3! cups milk 
powder i cup sugar 
■J peck apples 



Mix dry ingredients ; beat eggs, add milk, and mix with 
dry ingredients, then add melted shortening. Pour into 
well-greased shallow cake pans. Cut apples into sixteenths, 
lay them in parallel rows in the dough, pressing the edges 
lightly into it. Brush top with melted butter, sprinkle with 
one cup sugar mixed with two teaspoons cinnamon. Serve 
with Vanilla or Nutmeg Sauce, or with sugar and cream. 

Fruit Puffs 

Make Egg Roll mixture, using only whites of eggs, 
and milk to make a drop dough. Put a spoonful of canned 



HOT DESSERTS 179 

or preserved peaches or other fruit in bottom of well- 
buttered cups or individual molds, fill cups half full of 
dough, and steam thirty-five minutes. Serve with fruit 

juice sweetened to taste. 

■ 

Cottage Pudding 

' ' 5 ^g^s J 7J2J quarts flour 

5 cups sugar .p '5 teaspoons vanilla 

I f cup melted butter / 3 tablespoons baking 
r- 3J cups milk powder 

I teaspoon salt 

Sift dry ingredients together, add sugar and milk mixed 
with beaten egg yolks, then melted butter. Fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites of eggs, turn into well-greased shallow pans, 
bake about forty-five minutes in moderate oven. Serve 
with Vanilla, Strawberry, Orange, or Chocolate Sauce I. 

Steamed Pudding 

I J cups butter 4 J tablespoons baking 
2 cups sugar powder 

2| quarts flour i teaspoon salt 

I quart milk 4 eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients and rub in butter with tips 
of fingers. Beat eggs, add milk, and combine mixtures. 
Put in buttered molds, cover, and steam two hours. Serve 
with hot apple sauce and Hard Sauce. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

Egg Roll 8 boxes strawberries 

Hull strawberries and cut in pieces. Add sugar to taste 
and let stand for a short time where they will warm 



l8o RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

slightly. Pat and roll Egg Roll mixture to one-half inch 
thickness, and bake in hot oven in pie tins or in small 
rounds like biscuit. Split and spread with butter, put 
berries between layers and on top. Serve with the fruit 
juice, and cream if desired. 

Fresh or canned peaches, apricots, raspberries, or other 
fruit may be used in place of strawberries. 



Graham Pudding 

2f cups molasses 2j teaspoons soda 

if cups shortening 2 quarts sifted Graham 

2f cups milk flour 

5 eggs I quart raisins 

5 teaspoons salt 

Melt shortening, add molasses, milk, well-beaten eggs, 
dry ingredients mixed and sifted, and raisins. Steam 
four hours. Serve with Creamy or Sterling Sauce. 



Suet Pudding 

3 cups finely-chopped 3 teaspoons soda 
suet 4 teaspoons salt 

3 cups molasses 2 teaspoons ginger 

3 cups milk 2 teaspoons nutmeg 

2j quarts flour i teaspoon cloves 

I tablespoon cinnamon 
» 
Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk 

to suet; combine mixtures. Turn into greased molds, 
cover, and steam three hours. Serve with Sterling Sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS l8l 

Bellevue Pudding 

I quart molasses i quart sweet milk 

1 cup shortening 4 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 quarts bread flour 4 teaspoons cloves 

4 teaspoons soda 

Dissolve soda in milk. Melt shortening, add molasses, 
milk, and dry ingredients, turn into greased molds, steam 
two and one-half hours. Serve with Creamy Sauce. 

Nut Pudding 

3 cups molasses 3 cups chopped suet 
3 cups sweet milk 3 cups seeded raisins 
7-J cups flour 3 cups English walnuts 

3 teaspoons soda | pound chopped figs 
I teaspoon salt 2 small nutmegs 

Sift dry ingredients together. Mix fruit and suet and 
add molasses ; then add milk and flour alternately. Steam 
three and one-half hours. Serve with Foamy Sauce. 

English Plum Pudding 

I pound chopped beef suet i pound chopped raisins 

1 pound flour I pound currants 

4 teaspoons baking powder i pound brown sugar 

2 teaspoons cinnamon i pound citron cut fine 
I teaspoon cloves J pound candied orange 
I teaspoon mace peel 

I teaspoon salt i cup sweet milk 

4 well-beaten eggs 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add finely-chopped suet 
and fruit, and then milk and eggs. Steam six hours. This 
makes enough for two two-quart molds. 



182 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Scalloped Apples 

6 quarts sliced apples 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

6 quarts soft bread crumbs ij cups butter 

4 cups sugar 3 cups or more water 

Mix melted butter and crumbs, and put a layer in 
bottom of baking dishes. Cover with a layer of apple, 
sprinkle with sugar mixed with cinnamon. Continue in 
this way until there are three layers of bread and two of 
apple. Add water and bake in moderate oven one and 
one-half hours, or until apples are cooked to pieces. Keep 
dishes covered part of the time. The crumbs should be 
delicately browned on top. Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Apple Chsurlotte 

16 pounds apples ij cups melted butter 

2 quarts sugar I tablespoon cinnamon 

Pare, quarter, and core apples, and stew until tender ; 
add sugar and cinnamon. Cut bread one- fourth inch thick, 
removing crusts. Brush slices with melted butter and line 
sides of baking dishes. Put in apple sauce, cover with 
bread having buttered side up, sprinkle with sugar, and 
bake forty-five minutes, or until bread is golden brown. 
Serve with Hard Sauce. 

Scalloped Rhubarb 

5 quarts soft bread 8 pounds rhubarb cut in 

crumbs inch pieces 

I J cups melted butter 2 quarts sugar 

mixed with crumbs 

Butter baking dishes, put in a layer of crumbs, then 
rhubarb and sugar, and so continue until ingredients are 



\ 



HOT DESSERTS 1 83 

used. The top layer should be crumbs. Bake one hour, 
or until rhubarb is soft and crumbs are slightly brown on 
top. A little water may be added if necessary. Serve 
warm with Hard Sauce. 



PUDDING SAUCES 

Apricot Sauce 

2, quarts apricot pulp i quart heavy cream 

Sugar to taste 

Soak dried apricots several hours or over night in water 
to barely cover. Cook slowly in the same water until soft ; 
rub through a strainer. Canned apricots may be used if 
preferred. Beat cream until stiff, add to apricot pulp, 
and sweeten to taste. 

Chocolate Sauce I 



U I "^L 3 quarts sugar ^ 12 ounces chocolate 

y^ \\ quarts boiling water 4 tablespoons vanilla 

Cook sugar, chocolate, and water until it threads. Beat 
thoroughly with Dover ^%% beater, add vanilla, and serve. 



Chocolate Sauce II 



5 ounces cocoa 


\ cup cold water 


2\ cups lukewarm water 


\ teaspoon salt 


2.1 cups sugar 


I quart boiling water 


J cup cornstarch 


f tablespoon vanilla 



Mix cocoa with lukewarm water, add boiling water, 
stirring constantly until it boils. Mix cornstarch with cold 
water and add to hot mixture. Bring to boiling point, 
add sugar and salt. Cook in double boiler one hour, add 
vanilla, and serve hot or cold with puddings or ice cream. 

1S4 



PUDDING SAUCES 1 85 

Caramel Sauce 

2 quarts sugar 2 quarts water 

Put sugar in an iron frying pan, and stir until melted 
and golden brown in color. Add water and simmer fifteen 
minutes. 

Creamy Sauce 

5 cups powdered sugar 5 well-beaten eggs 
2j cups butter | cup boiling water 

5 teaspoons vanilla 

Rub sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs, and beat 
well. Just before serving add boiling water and vanilla. 

Cream Sauce 

5 eggs 3 cups heavy cream 

3f cups powdered sugar ^ teaspoon salt 

Beat whites until stiff, add powdered sugar, beating all 
the time ; add beaten yolks and fold in cream, which has 
been whipped until stiff. 

Foamy Sauce 

3 cups powdered sugar 3 cups cream 
I J cups butter 6 egg whites 

Cream sugar and butter together. Beat into this cream 
and slightly-beaten egg whites. Put into double boiler 
and beat until smooth and creamy. Cook until it thickens 
and serve at once. 



1 86 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Fruit Sauce 

2 quarts fruit syrup 4 tablespoons cornstarch 

Sugar to taste 

Drain off syrup from canned fruit and bring to boiling 
point. Mix cornstarch with sugar, or with a little cold 
syrup, add boiling syrup, and boil ten or fifteen minutes, 
stirring often. Serve with any dessert in which the fruit 
itself has been used. 

Grape Sauce 

Make same as Strawberry Sauce. 

Use stewed or canned Concord grapes. If they are very 
sweet, use only half the required amount of sugar. 

Hard Sauce 

2 cups butter J cup boiling water 

6 cups powdered sugar 2 teaspoons lemon extract 

Pour boiling water over butter, stir until creamy, then 
add gradually the sugar and lemon. 

Lemon Sauce 

1 quart sugar -J cup butter 

2 quarts boiling water -J cup lemon juice 

■J cup cornstarch or i teaspoon lemon extract 

f cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add water, stirring constantly 
until smooth. Boil five minutes, remove from fire, and 
add butter and flavorings. 



PUDDING SAUCES 1 8/ 

Nutmeg Sauce 

Make same as Lemon Sauce, using four teaspoons lemon 
extract and four teaspoons nutmeg in place of lemon juice. 

Orange Sauce 

6 tablespoons cornstarch Grated rind of one-half 
if cups sugar lemon 

if quarts boiling water i tablespoon lemon juice 

Grated rind of one orange -J cup orange juice 
f cup butter 

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add boiling water, stirring 
until it thickens. Boil fifteen minutes, or cook one hour 
in double boiler. Add butter and fruit juice. Serve hot. 

Strawberry Sauce 

1 4 cups butter 4 cups powdered 

3 cups strawberry pulp sugar 

and juice 4 egg whites 

Cream butter and sugar together, add stiffly-beaten 
whites and strained strawberries. Beat well before 
serving. 

Sunshine Sauce 
6 egg yolks 3 cups thick cream 

3 cups sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 

Stir beaten yolks and sugar together, add cream which 
has been whipped until stiff, and vanilla. 

Vanilla Sauce 

Make like Lemon Sauce, using two tablespoons vanilla 
in place of nutmeg and lemon. 



1 88 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Sterling Sauce 

3 cups butter 6 teaspoons vanilla 

6 cups brown sugar ij cups cream or milk 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and milk and flavor- 
ing very slowly, to prevent separation. 

Soft Custard Sauce 

I J quarts milk g tablespoons sugar 

9 ^SS yolks or 2j teaspoons vanilla 

5 small eggs f teaspoon salt 

Beat yolks slightly (if whole eggs are used beat them 
thoroughly) ; add sugar and salt, then pour hot milk 
slowly into them. Return to double boiler and cook until 
mixture thickens; add vanilla. If cooked too much, cus- 
tard will curdle. In that case, set saucepan in cold water 
.and beat custard with Dover egg beater until smooth. 



COLD DESSERTS 

' Baked Custard 

6 quarts scalded milk 3 cups sugar 

18 to 36 eggs 2 teaspoons salt 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt, and slowly the 
scalded milk. Turn into buttered baking dishes placed 
in larger pans containing hot water. Sprinkle with nut- 
meg and bake slowly until custard is firm. When a silver 
knife comes out clean, the custard is done. The smaller 
number of eggs makes a delicious custard, but not one 
which keeps its shape as perfectly as with the larger 
number. 

Caramel Custard 

6 quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

18 to 36 eggs 3 cups sugar 

2 tablespoons vanilla 

Put sugar into an iron frying pan, stir constantly until 
melted and light brown in color. Add milk gradually, 
being careful that it does not bubble over when added to 
hot syrup. As soon as sugar is dissolved in milk, add 
to slightly-beaten eggs. Add salt and vanilla, pour into 
buttered baking dishes which have been placed in larger 
pans containing hot water, and bake slowly until custard 
is firm. The custard is done when a knife comes out clean. 
If cooked too long or too fast, custard will whey. The 
larger the number of eggs used, the firmer the custard 
will be. Serve with Caramel Sauce. 

189 



190 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Plain Blanc Mange 

4J quarts scalded milk 3 teaspoons salt 

2j cups cornstarch 5 teaspoons vanilla if 

3 cups cold milk desired 

ij cups sugar 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt together, and mix to a 
smooth paste with cold milk. Add to scalded milk, stir- 
ring constantly until smooth, and cook forty-five minutes 
in double boiler, stirring occasionally. Serve warm or cold 
with cream and sugar and sweet jelly. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 

4f quarts scalded milk 10 ounces chocolate 
2f cups cornstarch ij cups sugar 

3 cups cold milk ij cups boiling water 

2 teaspoons salt 5 teaspoons vanilla 

Mix cornstarch with cold milk until smooth, add slowly 
to hot milk, and cook in double boiler forty-five minutes, 
stirring often to prevent lumps. 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add sugar and boiling 
water, stir, until smooth, and add to above mixture, stir- 
ring until thoroughly mixed. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Ribbon Cornstarch Pudding 

3-J quarts scalded milk 12 eggs 

2 cups cornstarch 4 teaspoons vanilla 

2 cups cold milk 3 ounces chocolate 

2 cups sugar 3 or 4 cups prunes 

2 teaspoons salt 6 tablespoons sugar 

Mix cornstarch, sugar, and salt, moisten with cold milk» 
add to hot milk, and cook forty-five minutes in double 



COLD DESSERTS IQI 

boiler, stirring often. Stir hot mixture into beaten egg 
yolks, add vanilla, and cool slightly, then fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites. Turn one-third of mixture into saucepan, 
mix with it melted chocolate, sugar, and prunes which 
have been stoned and cut in pieces. Cook one minute. 
Put into an oblong mold one-half the white mixture, make 
a smooth, even surface, spread over it the chocolate mix- 
ture, and finish with a layer of white on top. Chill and 
serve with thin cream. 

Caramel Pudding 

6 cups brown sugar 2 cups cold water 

2 cups butter 2 teaspoons salt 

4J quarts boiling water 2 tablespoons vanilla 

21 ^mgjgjs cornstarch 3 cups English walnuts 

Cook sugar and butter together until a rich golden 
brown. Add water and thicken with cornstarch mixed 
to paste with cold water. Stir until smooth and cook 
forty-five minutes in double boiler, stirring often. Add 
salt, vanilla, and nuts. Chill and serve with plain cream. 



Norwegian Prune Pudding 

2j pounds prunes 5 inch-pieces cinnamon 

2 J quarts cold water ij quarts boiling water 

5 cups sugar if cups cornstarch 

I teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons lemon juice 

Wash prunes, add cold water, and soak over night. 
Cook in same water in double boiler until soft, remove 
stones, and crack them to obtain meats. Dilute cornstarch 
with enough cold water to pour. Mix prunes, prune juice, 
meats, sugar, cinnamon, and boiling water, and bring to 



192 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

boiling point. Add cornstarch and cook forty-five minutes 
in double boiler. Remove cinnamon, add lemon juice, 
chill, and serve with cream. 

Chocolate Cream 

3i quarts scalded milk 9 ounces chocolate 

3J cups sugar 7 eggs 

ij cups cornstarch 7 teaspoons vanilla 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add milk slowly, and 
beat to scalding point. Mix cornstarch, sugar, and two 
teaspoons salt ; add hot milk mixture to it, return to double 
boiler, and cook forty-five minutes, stirring often. Add 
this mixture to beaten yolks, stirring all the time. Cool 
slightly and fold in stiffiy-beaten whites. Add vanilla. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Peach Custard 

Drain syrup from six No. 3 or two No. 10 cans of 
peaches, reserving syrup for fruit sherbet. Cut peaches 
in slices and cover with Soft Custard Sauce. Chill before 
serving. 

Bananas sprinkled with a little lemon juice may be used 
in the same way. 

Tapioca Sherbet 

3 cups minute tapioca Juice of 12 lemons 

6 cups sugar 13 egg whites 

3 quarts boiling water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook tapioca, sugar, salt, and water together in double 
boiler until clear, stirring often. Add juice of lemons 
about six minutes before removing from fire. Put mix- 



COLD DESSERTS I93 

ture Into platter or shallow agate pan to cool. As soon 
as it begins to jelly at the edges, stir into it quite briskly 
the well-beaten whites of eggs. Beat until very light. A 
little lemon extract may be added. Serve in sherbet glasses 
with whipped cream piled on top. 



Fig Tapioca 

I J cups minute tapioca 6 cups sugar 

3 quarts hot water 2 lemons (juice and grated 

3 tablespoons butter rind) 

3 cups chopped figs 3 teaspoons vanilla 

3 pints cold water 2 teaspoons salt 

Cook tapioca, hot water, salt, and butter together in 
double boiler until tapioca is clear, stirring often. Mix 
figs, lemon juice and grated rind, sugar, and cold water, 
and cook until smooth and thick, stirring constantly to 
prevent burning. Combine mixtures, add vanilla, chill, 
and serve with whipped cream. 



Tapioca Cream 

I -J cups pearl tapioca 2 cups sugar 

3 quarts scalded milk 12 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt 6 teaspoons vanilla 

Soak tapioca one hour in cold water to cover, drain, 
add to hot milk, and cook until clear. Mix sugar, salt, and 
slightly-beaten egg yolks, and add hot mixture, stirring 
constantly. Return to double boiler and cook until it 
thickens. Remove from fire and fold in the stiffly-beaten 
whites of eggs. Flavor and chill. 



194 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Pineapple Delicious 

2 pounds marshmallows 3 or 4 No. 3 cans of sliced 
I quart heavy cream pineapple 

Cut marshmallows in four pieces each, and pineapple 
in one-half inch cubes. Mix marshmallows, pineapple, 
and a little pineapple juice, and chill thoroughly. Just 
before serving, drain off juice, and fold in cream which 
has been whipped until stiff. 

Lemon Jelly 

f cup granulated gelatine 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water 3} quarts boiling water 

3 cups lemon juice 

Soak gelatine in cold water twenty minutes, dissolve in 
boiling water, strain through cheesecloth wrung out of 
hot water. Add to sugar and lemon juice, cool, and put 
in refrigerator or other cold place to stiffen. 

Orange Jelly 

f cup granulated gelatine 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water 2 J quarts orange juice 

2 J quarts boiling water I cup lemon juice 

Make same as Lemon Jelly. Serve with whipped cream. 

Fruit Jelly 

Make Lemon Jelly, cool, cover bottom of shallow agate 
oblong pans, or any desired molds. When jelly begins to 
stiffen, put in a layer of any desired fruit, then another 
layer of gelatine, and so on until all ingredients are used. 



COLD DESSERTS IQS 

Sliced bananas, sections of orange freed from skin and 
membrane, steamed figs and dates cut in pieces, canned 
peaches and pineapple drained and cut in pieces, candied 
cherries, nuts, and other fruits may be used in any at- 
tractive and palatable combination. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

Coffee Jelly 

f cup granulated gelatine ij quarts boiling water 
3 cups cold water 3 cups sugar 

3 quarts boiled coffee 

Make same as Lemon Jelly. Serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Pineapple Jelly 

10 tablespoons granulated 3 No. 3 cans pineapple 
gelatine 5 lemons 

7J cups boiling water 7J cups sugar 

Soak gelatine in boiling water until dissolved. Drain 
pineapple and cut in one-half inch cubes. Add to syrup 
sugar, juice of lemons, and grated rind of three of them. 
Boil two minutes, add strained gelatine, and boil seven 
minutes. Add pineapple cubes, chill, and serve with plain 
cream. 

Prune Jelly 

2 pounds prunes 15 tablespoons granulated 

3 quarts cold water gelatine 
Boiling water 6 cups sugar 

3 cups cold water i| cups lemon juice 

Wash prunes and soak over night in cold water, cook 
in same water until soft. Stone prunes and cut in halves. 
Add to prune water enough boiling water to make three 
quarts. Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in hot liquid, 



196 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

add sugar and lemon juice, then strain. Add prunes and 
chill, stirring twice to prevent prunes from settling. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Snow Pudding 

8J tablespoons granulated 8J cups boiling water 

gelatine 4J cups sugar 

2 cups cold water 2 cups lemon juice 

17 egg whites 

Soak gelatine in cold water twenty minutes, dissolve in 
boiling water, strain, and add to sugar and lemon juice. 
Cool, and when it begins to thicken, add beaten whites of 
eggs, and beat until stiff enough to hold its shape. Chill 
and serve with Soft Custard Sauce. 

Apricot Charlotte 

6 tablespoons granulated 2 cups cold water 

gelatine 6 cups strained apricots 

6 cups sugar 2 cups boiling water 

18 egg whites Juice 3 lemons 

Soak two pounds dried apricots over night in cold water 
to cover, and cook in same water until soft, then rub 
through puree strainer. There should be one and one-half 
quarts when strained. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water, sugar, 
and lemon juice. Strain and add apricot juice and pulp. 
When jelly begins to thicken, beat until light, add beaten 
whites, and beat until stiff enough to keep its shape. Chill 
and serve with whipped cream. Canned apricots may be 
used instead of dried ones. 

Oranges, peaches, strawberries, and other fruits may 
be used in place of apricots. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

Directions for Freezing 

Use finely crushed ice. A wooden mallet and burlap bag 
are useful for crushing ice. 

Use coarse rock salt in the proportion of three parts ice 
to one of salt. 

Place the can of the freezer in position in the pail ; put 
in the dasher ; pour in the mixture to be frozen ; cover, 
and adjust the handle so that it turns freely. Surround 
the can with alternate layers of ice and salt in the propor- 
tions given, beginning with ice. Pack solidly to the top 
of can. 

The freezer can should never be more than three- fourths 
full. 

In freezing ice cream, turn the crank slowly and steadily 
until frozen to a mush, then more rapidly. Add more ice 
and salt as needed. Never draw off water until mixture 
is frozen, unless there is possibility of its getting into can. 

When mixture is frozen, draw off water, remove dasher, 
and pack cream solidly. Put cork in opening, put on cover, 
repack freezer, using four parts ice to one of salt, cover 
with newspapers, then with heavy cloth. Let stand an 
hour or more to ripen. 

Lemon Ice 

4j quarts water 2j quarts sugar 

3f cups lemon juice 

Boil sugar and water together twenty minutes; add 
lemon juice, cool, strain, and freeze. 

197 



198 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Orange Ice 

3 J quarts water 7 cups orange juice 

7 cups sugar J cup lemon juice 

Grated rind of 6 oranges 

Make syrup as for Lemon Ice ; add fruit juice and grated 
rind, cool, strain, and freeze. 



Strawberry Ice 

3I quarts water 7 cups strawberry juice 

5 J cups sugar 4 tablespoons lemon juice 

Make syrup as for Lemon Ice ; cool, add berries which 
have been mashed and strained through double cheese- 
cloth, and lemon juice; freeze. 

Raspberry Ice may be made in the same way. 

Mint Sherbet 

2^ quarts sugar 2 cups chopped mint 

5 quarts boiling water 3 J cups lemon juice 

Pick over, wash, and chop two large bunches mint. 
Bring sugar and water to boiling point and pour over 
mint. Let stand an hour or two, add lemon juice, strain, 
color delicately with leaf green, and freeze. 

Cranberry Frappe 

4-J quarts cranberries 2J quarts sugar 

3 quarts water i-| cups lemon juice 

Cook berries and water ten minutes, put through puree 
strainer, add sugar and lemon juice. Freeze to mush, 
using equal parts ice and salt. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 199 

Grape Frapp6 

7 cups sugar if cups lemon juice 
3-| quarts water 7 cups grape juice 

Boil sugar and water five minutes, add other ingredi- 
ents, and freeze to mush. 

Alaskan Combination 

2 quarts water ij cups lemon juice 

1 quart orange juice 8 large bananas 

2 quarts canned peaches 2 quarts sugar 

Fresh peaches may be used in place of canned ones.. 
Mash peaches and bananas through strainer, add lemon 
and orange juice, sugar, and water. Freeze. 

Milk Sherbet 

2 cups lemon juice 2 quarts sugar 

4J quarts milk 

Strain lemon juice, add sugar, and mix thoroughly. 
Add milk slowly, stirring constantly. Turn at once inta 
packed freezer. Turn slowly at first, but more rapidly 
when it begins to stiffen. Let stand two hours to ripen. 

Fruit Sherbet 

4 quarts rich milk 4 lemons 

2 quarts sugar I pint finely-shredded 

8 oranges pineapple 

Scald milk, chill; add fruit juice, pineapple, and sugar^ 
Freeze and let ripen two hours. 



200 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Apricot Sherbet 



2j quarts strained 


I J quarts or more sugar 


apricots 


2j quarts water or 


6 tablespoons lemon 


juice 


juice 


4 egg whites 



Dried apricots which have been soaked, and stewed 
until soft, may be used. Boil sugar and water together 
five minutes, add strained apricots and lemon juice, chill. 
When half frozen, add stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, to 
which four tablespoons powdered sugar have been added. 
Finish freezing and let stand an hour or so to ripen. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 

3J quarts milk f teaspoon salt 

3 cups sugar 6 eggs 

f cup flour 3 tablespoons vanilla 

I quart heavy cream 

Scald milk; mix sugar, salt, and flour together, add 
milk gradually, and return to double boiler. Cook twenty 
minutes, stirring constantly until smooth. Add to slightly- 
beaten eggs, cook three minutes, and cool. Add flavoring 
and cream, and freeze. 



Ginger Ice Cream 

Make Vanilla Ice Cream, using one-half the vanilla, 
one-half cup ginger syrup, and one and one-half cups 
preserved ginger cut in small pieces. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 201 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

Melt six ounces unsweetened chocolate over hot water. 
Use Vanilla Ice Cream recipe, adding hot custard to 
melted chocolate, then cool and proceed as above. 

Caramel Ice Cream 

3J quarts milk f teaspoon salt 

I quart sugar 4 eggs 

J cup flour 2 tablespoons vanilla 

I quart heavy cream 

Prepare same as Vanilla Ice Cream, using one-half the 
sugar in the custard. Caramelize the remaining sugar 
and add to hot custard. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 

General Directions 

Prepare pans first. They may be greased, then floured, 
shaking out all the loose flour; or bottom of pans lined 
with paper, then paper and sides of pans greased. 

Always use pastry flour if possible, as it makes a more 
tender cake. If bread flour must be used, allow two table- 
spoons less for each cup, or two ounces less for each pound 
of flour called for in recipe. 

Sift flour before measuring, then mix and sift together, 
two or more times, the flour and all dry ingredients except 
sugar. 

If butter is very hard, warm bowl or mixing pan by 
rinsing with boiling water. Wipe dry, put in butter or 
other shortening, and stir until creamy. In many of the 
following recipes, vegetole, crisco, cotosuet, or other 
shortening is used wholly or partly in place of butter, but 
all butter may be used if preferred. 

Add sugar gradually to creamed butter, then add beaten 
yolks. Measure milk into bowl in which yolks were beaten, 
then add alternately with flour to the butter mixture. Beat 
well, then add fruit or nuts if required, and fold in stiffly- 
beaten whites of eggs and flavoring. 

Fruit should be washed, dried, chopped, and mixed 
with a little of the required amount of flour before adding 
to mixture. 

If coal or wood is used as fuel, the fire should be 
attended to before mixing cake. If gas is used, the oven 

202 



CAKE AND COOKIES 203 

should not be lighted until the cake is partly prepared, or 
it will be too hot. The time required depends wholly on 
size and make of oven. 

Tests: A piece of white paper indicates that the oven is 
of the right temperature (300° F.) for butter loaf cakes 
if it turns golden brown in five minutes; for layer cake 
if it turns in four minutes; and for angel and sponge 
cake if it turns in seven minutes. (250° F. increasing to 
280° F.) 

Cake may be looked at often provided there is no jar 
when the door is opened and shut. It should not be moved 
until firm enough to prevent falling. Cake is done when 
it shrinks from the sides of pan. Let it remain in pans 
for a few minutes after taking from oven. 

Angel and sponge cakes should be broken, not cut. With 
a sharp knife cut through the crust, then break apart. 

Plain Cake 

I cup butter 3 cups milk 

■J cup other shortening 2J quarts flour 
4-J cups sugar 4 tablespoons baking 

12 eggs powder 

3 teaspoons vanilla 

Mix according to general directions. Bake in square 
or oblong shallow pans, in moderate oven, about forty- 
five minutes; in layer cake pans about fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; or in mufiin pans about thirty minutes. Spread 
with any desired frosting. 

Cream Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans. Put Cream Filling between layers and powdered 

sugar on top. 



204 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Chocolate Cream Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans, and spread Chocolate Cream Filling between layers 
and on top. 

Washington Pie 

Use recipe for Plain Cake. Bake in round layer cake 
pans, spread jam or jelly between layers, and sprinkle 
powdered sugar over top. 

White Cake 

I J cups butter or butter 4 tablespoons baking 

and other shortening powder 

6 cups sugar I tablespoon vanilla 

3 cups milk 12 egg whites 

2j quarts flour 

Mix according to general directions. Bake in shallow 
square or oblong pans, or in layer cake pans. Spread with 
any desired frosting. 

Spanish Cake 

Use recipe for Plain Cake, using five teaspoons cinna- 
mon in place of vanilla. Spread with White Mountain 
Cream in which a stick of cinnamon was boiled with the 
sugar and water ; or with Caramel Frosting. 

Walnut Mocha Cake 

Follow recipe for White Cake, using boiled coffee in 
place of milk, and adding two or more cups coarsely- 
chopped walnut meats. Bake in shallow pans. Spread 
with Mocha or Caramel Frosting. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 205 

White Nut Cake 

Add three cups walnut or hickory nut meats, chopped 
or cut in pieces, to White Cake mixture. Bake in shallow 
pans. 

Sponge Cake 
10 eggs 3 teaspoons vanilla or 

5 cups sugar 2j teaspoons lemon extract 

if cups boiling water 5 teaspoons baking 
J teaspoon salt powder 

5 cups flour 

Sift sugar two or three times ; also flour. Beat yolks 
well, add sugar, then boiling water, then flour which has 
been sifted with salt and baking powder. Beat well, and 
then fold in whites which have been beaten until stiff 
and dry. Bake about forty minutes in slow oven. 

Cream Puffs 
2 cup^ butter 16 eggs 

I quart boiling water i quart flour 

Put butter and water in saucepan over fire. When butter 
is melted, put flour in all at once, beating vigorously until 
mixture is thoroughly blended and leaves sides of pan. 
Remove from fire, partly cool, add eggs one at a time, 
beating each for some time before adding next. Beat until 
batter is no longer stringy, drop by the spoonful on 
buttered sheets, one and one-half inches apart. Shape 
with handle of spoon as nearly circular as possible, and 
slightly heaped in center. Bake thirty minutes in moderate 
oven. With a sharp knife make a slit in each, and fill with 
Cream or Chocolate Cream Filling, or with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored. 



206 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Graham Cake 

3 cups sugar i tablespoon cinnamon 

i-J cups molasses i teaspoon allspice or 
3 cups milk nutmeg 

4 J cups sifted Graham i teaspoon lemon extract 

flour I teaspoon vanilla 

3 cups flour 3 cups raisins 

I J teaspoons soda 3 cups currants 

I teaspoon cloves Citron and nuts if desired 

Sift dry ingredients together. Mix the fruit with some 
of the flour and add after thoroughly mixing the other 
ingredients. Bake in loaves in moderate oven. Keep 
several days before using. 

Bread Cake 

3 pounds light bread dough 2 teaspoons soda 

1 cup butter 5 cups sugar 

J cup other shortening i teaspoon nutmeg 

6 eggs I teaspoon cloves 

2 cups chopped raisins i teaspoon cinnamon 

Dissolve soda in water. Put all ingredients together in 
mixing pan, mix very thoroughly, using knife or hands. 
Put into long, narrow cake pans, let rise one hour, and 
bake in moderate oven one hour, or until done. 

Gingerbread 

4 cups molasses 4 teaspoons soda 

2 cups boiling water 4 teaspoons ginger 

2j quarts flour 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

I cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons salt 

Add water to molasses. Mix and sift dry ingredients, 
combine mixtures, add shortening, and beat vigorously. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 20/ 

Bake in well-greased shallow pans in moderate oven forty 
minutes, or until done. 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 

I quart molasses 2^ tablespoons soda 

I quart sour milk 2 tablespoons ginger 

2j quarts flour 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons salt 

Mix soda with sour milk and add to molasses. Sift 
together remaining dry ingredients, combine mixtures, 
add shortening, and beat vigorously. Bake in shallow pans 
in moderate oven forty minutes, or until done. 

Molasses Cake 

3 cups molasses 3 teaspoons salt 

3 cups sugar i teaspoon cloves 

2 cups shortening 6 eggs 

3 tablespoons ginger 3 cups boiling water 
2 tablespoons cinnamon 2J quarts flour 

2 tablespoons soda 

Soften shortening with boiling water, add molasses and 
sugar. Mix and sift dry ingredients and add to mixture. 
Stir in beaten eggs and beat vigorously until smooth. Bake 
in shallow pans in moderate oven forty minutes, or until 
done. 

Chocolate Cake I 

Add six ounces melted chocolate, or one and one-half 
cups cocoa, to creamed butter and sugar of Plain Cake. 
Bake in shallow pans in moderate oven, and spread with 
White Mountain Cream or Plain Frosting. 



208 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Chocolate Cake II 

I cup butter 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 cup other shortening ^ 2 teaspoons soda 

6 cups sugar 4 teaspoons cream tartar 

2 quarts flour ^^^^ ^^^^ 

; 2 cups milk ' f cup boiling water 

*2 to 1 6 ounces chocolate 

Melt chocolate over hot water, add one cup of sugar, 
and boiling water gradually. Mix and sift dry ingredi- 
ents. Cream butter and remaining sugar, add beaten yolks, 
hot chocolate mixture and vanilla, and flour and milk 
alternately. Fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Pour 
into shallow oblong pans to depth of one inch. Spread 
White Mountain Cream on top. 

Spice Cake 



2 cups shortening 


2J 


\ quarts flour 


4 cups sugar 


2 


cups currants 


8 eggs 


2 


cups raisins 


I cup sour milk 


4 


teaspoons cinnamon 


2 teaspoons soda 


2 


teaspoons cloves 


I cup molasses 


2 


teaspoons allspice 


Mix according to general directions, adding molasses 


with milk. Bake in shallow oblong pans, or in muffin pans. 


in moderate oven. 






Date 


Patty 


Cakes 


\\ cups shortening 




I teaspoon nutmeg 


8 eggs 




5 tablespoons baking 


2 cups milk 




powder 


if quarts flour 




2 pounds dates stoned 


5 cups brown sugar 




and cut in pieces 



3 teaspoons cinnamon 



CAKE AND COOKIES 209 

When butter and sugar are partly mixed, add eggs and 
beat until very light. Add milk, flour which has been 
sifted with other ingredients, and dates. Beat hard two 
minutes. Fill muffin pans half full and bake thirty minutes, 
or until done, in moderate oven. 

Plain Drop Cakes 

2 cups sugar 6 scant cups flour 

1 cup melted shortening 2 teaspoons soda 

2 eggs I teaspoon cream of tartar 
2 cups sour milk 2 teaspoons vanilla or 

J teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons mace 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Mix sugar and melted 
shortening, add beaten eggs, and flour and milk alter- 
nately^; Drop by the teaspoonful on greased tins, and 
place raisin on top of each. 

Sugar Cookies 

5 cups flour 5 beaten eggs 

2-i cups sugar 2| teaspoons cream tartar 

I J cups butter ij teaspoons soda 

Cream butter and sugar together, add eggs, then flour 
mixed and sifted with soda and cream of tartar. Roll 
quite thin, cut in small rounds, and bake in moderate oven. 

Jelly Jumbles 

2^ cups butter 2J teaspoons soda 

5 cups sugar if cups sour milk 

5 eggs i^ teaspoons salt 

Cream butter and sugar together, add well-beaten eggs, 
salt, sour milk in which soda has been dissolved, and flour 



210 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

to make as soft a dough as can be handled. Chill, roll 
one- fourth inch thick, cut in rounds three inches in 
diameter. Put a teaspoonful jam or jelly on one-half the 
rounds, and cut three small holes in center of remaining 
pieces. Put pieces together, press the edges slightly, and 
bake in moderate oven. 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 

-J cup vegetole or crisco 2 cups flour 

f cup butter 2 teaspoons soda 

2 cups brown sugar J teaspoon salt 

4 eggs -J teaspoon cinnamon 

-J cup milk "I teaspoon nutmeg 

4 cups rolled oats -J teaspoon saaiammg cloves 

2 cups raisins 2 cups chopped nuts 

Sift dry ingredients together. Cream butter, vegetole, 
and sugar together, add well-beaten eggs, milk, flour, fruit, 
and rolled oats. Drop by the teaspoonful, about two inches 
apart, on well-greased pans. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

ij cups sugar 3-| teaspoons soda 

2j cups molasses 2j teaspoons salt 

2j cups vegetole, crisco, 4 teaspoons ginger 

or chicken fat 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

i^ cups sour milk Flour 

Heat molasses, melt shortening in it, and add sugar. 
Cool, add sour milk, and one quart flour which has been 
sifted with other dry ingredients, then flour to roll as soft 
as can be handled. If chilled for an hour or so, dough 
is more easily handled. Roll about one-third inch thick; 
bake in moderate oven. The cookies are crisp when fresh. 



CAKE AND COOKIES 211 

Boston Cookies 

I J cups butter 5 cups flour 

2j cups sugar J teaspoon salt 

4 eggs I J teaspoons cinnamon 

I-J teaspoons soda i cup seeded and chopped 

3 tablespoons hot water raisins 

1 4 cups walnut meats 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and well-beaten eggs. 
Add soda dissolved in hot water, flour mixed and sifted 
with salt and cinnamon, chopped nuts and raisins. Drop 
by spoonfuls one inch apart on greased sheets or dripping 
pans, and bake in moderate oven. 

Spongie Drops 

12 egg whites I J cups flour 

I J cups powdered sugar J teaspoon salt 
8 egg yolks i teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff and dry, add sugar grad- 
ually, and continue beating. Add flavoring, and yolks of 
eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored. Cut and fold 
in flour mixed with salt. Drop from tip of spoon on un- 
buttered paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and bake 
eight minutes in moderate oven. This recipe makes one 
hundred. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 

Cream Filling 

2j cups sugar 6 eggs 

1 cup flour I J quarts milk 

f teaspoon salt i teaspoon vanilla 

Mix dry ingredients, add eggs slightly beaten, and 
gradually the scalded milk. Cook fifteen minutes in double 
boiler, stirring constantly until thickened, then occasion- 
ally. Cool and flavor. 

Chocolate Cream Filling 

Melt four ounces chocolate over hot water. Add to 
Cream Filling, using one-half cup more sugar. 

Plain Frosting 

8 cups confectioners' or f cup or more boiling water 
powdered sugar Flavoring 

Add boiling water gradually to sifted sugar, until of 
right consistency to spread, then add flavoring. 

Orange Frosting 

2 yellow oranges Confectioners' or powdered sugar 

Grate rind from oranges, add to it the juice, of which 
there should be about one cup. Let stand for an hour or 
more, strain, and add sifted sugar to make of consistency 
to spread. The yolk of an tgg or orange coloring may be 
added to supply lack of color. 

212 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 2I3. 

White Frosting 

8 cups powdered sugar 3 tablespoons lemon 

8 Qgg whites juice 

Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and lemon juice, and beat 
five minutes, or until mixture begins to thicken. One 
tablespoon vanilla and two tablespoons water may be used 
in place of lemon juice. 

Mocha Frosting 

2 cups butter J cup strong boiled or 

8 cups confectioners' sugar filtered coffee 

Wash butter, work until creamy, add sugar gradually, 
beating constantly. As mixture thickens, add coffee, a 
few drops at a time, keeping mixture always of a creamy 
consistency, and using more coffee if needed. 

Cocoa Frosting 

Mix three- fourths cup cocoa and one cup hot milk until 
smooth, bring to boiling point. Follow directions for 
Mocha Frosting, substituting cocoa mixture for coffee, 
and using enough to make frosting of right consistency 
to spread. 

White Mountain Cream 

8 cups granulated sugar 8 egg whites 

2^ cups hot water 2 tablespoons vanilla 

Put sugar and water in saucepan, stir until dissolved, 
boil without stirring to 238° P., or soft ball stage. Pour 
syrup gradually on stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, beating 
constantly, and continue beating until frosting is of right 



214 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

consistency to spread ; add flavoring and spread on cake 
at once. If not beaten long enough, frosting will run; 
if beaten too long, it will be rough. 

Caramel Frosting 

6 cups brown sugar ^ cup butter 

2 cups thin cream 4 teaspoons vanilla 

Use light brown sugar, or there will be danger of 
curdling. Boil first three ingredients together until waxy 
when dropped in cold water. Add vanilla, set saucepan 
in pan of cold water until frosting is of a consistency to 
spread, beating or not as desired. If frosting is beaten, 
it will be creamy in appearance ; if not beaten, it will be 
transparent. 

Chocolate Frosting 

6 cups sugar 6 squares Baker's chocolate 

3 cups hot water 6 egg yolks beaten thick 
6 teaspoons vanilla and lemon-colored 

Cook sugar, chocolate, and water to soft ball stage, 
then add gradually to beaten yolks, beating constantly. 
Add vanilla and beat until stiff enough to spread. 



MENUS 

The following menus are taken from the dietary of the 
School of Domestic Science, and are given as suggestive 
of what may be done in the way of variety and simplicity 
at a moderate cost. 

It is our aim to give a simple dietary of varied, nutri- 
tious, and appetizing meals, at a moderate rather than at the 
lowest cost ; and this is made possible by wholesale buying 
in connection with the Young Women's Christian Asso- 
ciation, and by serving on the home table the products of 
the laboratory-practice cookery. Monotony is prevented 
by serving a variety of dishes during a series of days 
rather than at one meal, and by usually avoiding the repe- 
tition of the same dish on the same day of the week. 

The students carry on the work of the home in addition 
to laboratory and classroom requirements, as a part of their 
training, and this often necessitates simplicity of service 
as well as of meals. Hence, soup is never served for 
dinner, coffee seldom, and salad never served as a separate 
course. If fruit is served at breakfast, the cereal is usually 
omitted. 

Butter is served at all meals. One quart of heavy cream 
a day is used, sometimes for breakfast with the cereal, at 
other times for dinner. 



215 



AUTUMN MONTHS 

Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Concord Grapes 

Boston Baked Beans Apple Catsup 

Toast Boston Brown Bread 

Milk Cocoa Coffee 

DINNER 

Hot Boiled Ham Mustard Pickle Mashed Turnip 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes Oatmeal and White Bread 

Chocolate Cream 

LUNCHEON 

Sliced Peaches Bread Cheese Crackers 

Cocoa Tea Milk 

Boston Cookies 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Cracked Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Baked Apples with Bacon Corn Bread 

LUNCHEON 

Creamed Eggs (sliced) Cold Sliced Ham 

Bread Spice Cake 

Cocoa Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Beefsteak Roll Broiled Potatoes Bechamel Carrots 

Oatmeal and White Bread 

Graham Pudding Sterling Sauce 

216 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 



217 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit 
Cream of Salt Pork 
Cocoa 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Rolled Oats 
Baked Potatoes 
Milk 



Cream and Sugar 
Bran Cakes 
Coffee 



LUNCHEON 

Corn Soup Crackers 

Salmon Salad II Bread 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

Oatmeal Drop Cookies 



DINNER 



Broiled Beefsteak Baked Potatoes 

Graham and White Bread 
Scalloped Apples Hard Sauce 



Sliced Tomatoes 



'Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Cream of Wheat Cream and Sugar 

Toast Meat Cakes Chili Sauce German Coffee Bread 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 



Scalloped Cheese 
Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Grape Jelly 
Milk 
Cream Cake 



Graham and White Bread 
Tea 



DINNER 



Roast Leg of Lamb Spanish Sauce Peas 

Bread 
Norwegian Prune Pudding with Cream 



Austrian Potatoes 



2l8 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Malt Breakfast Food Milk and Sugar 

Sausage with Glazed Apples Toast Cereal Muffins 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 



LUNCHEON 

Bean Stew Cucumber Pickles 

Cocoa Tea 

Baked Apple Pudding 



Potato Rolls 
Milk 
Nutmeg Sauce 



DINNER 

Braised Beef Brown Gravy 

Baked Winter Squash 
Chocolate Bread Pudding 



Mashed Potatoes 
Bread 
Hard Sauce 



Friday 





BREAKFAST 




Shredded Wheat Biscuit 


Scotch Oatmeal 


Cream and Sugar 


Cream Omelet 


Toast 


Cinnamon Rolls 


Coffee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 


Curried Vegetables 


Date Patty Cakes 


Nut and White Bread 


Cocoa 


Tea 

DINNER 


Milk 



Boiled Salmon Egg Sauce Mock Potato Puff 

Lettuce and Tomato Salad French Dressing Bread 

Caramel Custard with Caramel Sauce 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 



219 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Hominy 

Hashed Brown Potatoes Toast 

Cocoa Milk 



Cream and Sugar 
Batter Bread 
Coffee 



Meat Pie 
Baked Pears 

Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Tomato Relish 

Milk 



Plain Cake 
Tea 



DINNER 

Veal Roast Brown Gravy 

Steamed Potatoes Spinach 

Baked Apples with Cream 



Barberry Jelly 
Bread 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Apples, Pears and Grapes 

Boston Baked Beans Toast Brown Bread Grape Catsup 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Chicken with Stuffing and Gravy Spiced Apple Jelly 

Mashed Potatoes Creamed Celery Bread 

Apricot Charlotte with Whipped Cream 



LUNCHEON 

Chicken Sandwiches Stewed Crab Apples 

White Cake with Chocolate Frosting 



220 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Sliced Bananas Milk and Sugar 

R6chauff6 of Veal on Toast Toast Pop-overs 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Lyonnaise Tripe Potato Cakes 

Cocoanut Cake 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Stew with Dumplings Steamed Potatoes Buttered Onions 

Oatmeal and White Bread 

Peach Shortcake 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Pettijohn Cream and Sugar 

Broiled Ham Mustard Sauce Toast Baking Powder Biscuit 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Italian Macaroni Oatmeal and White Bread 

Cottage Pudding with Grape Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Roast Mushroom Sauce Franconia Potatoes 

Cabbage Salad with Boiled Dressing Bread 

Bellevue Pudding Creamy Sauce 



MENUS FOR AUTUMN MONTHS 221 





Wednesday 






BREAKFAST 




Shredded Wheat 


Rolled Oats 


Cream and Sugar 


Bacon 


Toast 


Corn Cakes 


CofiFee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 



Cold Roast Beef Chili Sauce Creamed Potatoes 

White and Entire Wheat Bread 

Dutch Apple Cake Vanilla Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Corned Beef with Vegetables Mustard Sauce Steamed Potatoes 

Bread 
Spiced Pudding with Whipped Cream 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Steamed Rice Milk and Sugar 

Broiled Frankfurters with Sliced Tomatoes 

Toast Rye Muffins 

Cocoa Milk Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Corned Beef Hash Sliced Cucumbers Brown and W^hite Bread 
Damson Preserves Plain Cake 

DINNER 

Lamb Fricassee with Triangles of Toast Mashed Potatoes 

Boiled Beets Bread 

Molasses Cake with Whipped Cream 



222 



RECIPES \ND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Ralston Breakfast Food Milk and Sugar 

Creamed Dried Beef Toast Buns 

Cofifee Milk Cocoa 



Potato Chowder 

Sponge Cake 
Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Crackers 



Bread 



Tea 



Apple Sauce 
Milk 



Broiled Bluefish 



DINNER 

Delmonico Potatoes 

Washington Pie 



Tomato Salad Bread 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Cream of Wheat Cream and Sugar 

Scrambled Eggs with Tomato Toast Graham MuflBns 

CoflFee Milk Cocoa 



Creamed Fish 

Plain Cookies 
Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Baked Potatoes 

Pear Marmalade 
Milk Tea 



Bread 



DINNER 

Beef Tongue Piquante Sauce Potato Puff Buttered Cauliflower 

Rye and White Bread 

Apple Pie Cheese 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 22^ 

WINTER MONTHS 

Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Apples and Bananas 

Boston Baked Beans Cider Apple Sauce Toast 

Boston Brown Bread 

CofiFee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Turkey Mashed Potato Celery Cranberry Sauce Bread 
Nut Pudding Sunshine Sauce 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Turkey Bread and Butter Sandwiches Grape Butter 

Plain Cake with Caramel Frosting 

Cocoa Milk Tea 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Puffed Rice Shredded Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Poached Eggs with Minced Tongue Drop Biscuit 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese Cream Toast with Bacon Entire Wheat Bread 

Bread Cake 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Beef Loaf Brown Sauce Turnips New York Style 

Scalloped Potatoes Bread 

Caramel Bread Pudding 



224 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 





Tuesday 






BREAKFAST 




Shredded Wheat 


\Arheat Germ 


Milk and Sugar 


Codfish Balls 


Toast 


Corn Bread 


Coffee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 



Meat Croquettes with Brown Sauce 

Gingerbread 
Tea Milk 



Peas 



Bread 



Cocoa 



DINNER 

Roast Pork Baked Potatoes 

Bread 
Prune Whip with Soft Custard Sauce 



Spiced Apples 



"Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Wheatena with Dates Cream and Sugar 

Tripe in Batter Toast Raised Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 



Lima Bean Soup 

Doughnuts 



Crackers 

Coffee 



Bread 



DINNER 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb Maitre d'H6tel Potatoes Baked Bananas 

Bread 
Ginger Ice Cream Wafers 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 225 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Old Grist Mill Milk and Sugar 

Scrapple Toast Entire Wheat Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Mexican Chili Crackers Cucumber Pickles Bread 

Baked Blackberry Pudding 

DINNER 

Braised Liver Lyonnaise String Beans Hongroise Potatoes 

Oatmeal and White Bread 

Pumpkin Pie 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit 


Force 


Cream and Sugar 


Spanish Omelet 


Toast 


Blueberry Muffins 


Coffee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 



Mashed Potato Baked Sausage Rye Bread 

Molasses Cookies Hot Apple Sauce 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Haddock with Maitre d'Hotel Butter Macaroni and Cheese 
Apple and Celery Salad with Cream Dressing Bread 

Lemon Pie 



226 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat with Canned Peaches and Cream 

Frizzled Dried Beef Toast Cereal Mufi&ns 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Pressed Corned Beef Lyonnaise Potatoes Mustard Bread 

Rye Drop Cakes Caramel Syrup 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Baked Ham Steamed Sweet Potatoes Creamed "White Turnips 
Graham and White Bread 

Peach Shortcake with Cream 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Boston Baked Beans Catsup Boston Brown Bread 

Toast Doughnuts 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Chicken k la Jardiniere Boiled Rice Cranberry Jelly 

Corn Oysters Bread 

Pineapple Delicious After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster Stew Crackers 

Graham Cake Canned Peaches 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 



227 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Stewed Prunes Cream 

Fried Oatmeal Mush with Bacon German Coffee Bread 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 



Corn Chowder 



Cocoa 



LUNCHEON 

Crackers 
Blueberry Shortcake 
Milk 



Bread 



Tea 



DINNER 

Beef Roast Brown Gravy Franconia Potatoes 

Bread 
Creamed Carrots and Turnips 
Orange Marmalade Pudding 



Apple Chutney 





BREAKFAST 




Shredded Wheat 


Farina 


Cream and Sugar 


Creamed Ham and Eggs 


Toast 


Graham Gems 


Coffee 


Milk 
LUNCHEON 


Cocoa 



Cold Roast Beef 
Tea 



Creamed Rice or Carrots and Turnips 
Jelly Jumbles 

Milk Cocoa 



Bread 



DINNER 



Spanish Stew Riced Potato 

Chocolate Cream Cake 



Saut6d Parsnips 
After-Dinner Coffee 



Bread 



228 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Force with Stewed Figs and Cream 

Milk Toast Orange Marmalade Bran Cakes 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters and Celery on Toast Jelly Graham and White Bread 

Cranberry Tarts 
Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Beefsteak Fried Onions Spanish Potatoes Bread 

Alaskan Combination 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Toasted Corn Flakes Cream and Sugar 

Creamed Finnan Haddie Toast Plain Muffins 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Liver Loaf Tomato Sauce White and Oatmeal Bread 

Apple Ginger Baronet Biscuit 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Lamb Chops Potato Puff Lima Beans with Cream Jelly 

Bread 
Stewed Figs with Cream 



MENUS FOR WINTER MONTHS 229 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded W^heat Corn Meal Mush Milk and Sugar 

Minced Meat on Toast Chili Sauce Rocks 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Creole Spaghetti Bread 

Canned Pears Spanish Cake 

Cocoa Milk Tea 

DINNER 

Boiled Cod Drawn Butter Sauce Spanish Rice Peas 

Bread 
Mince Pie 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit Malt Breakfast Food Cream and Sugar 

Apples Baked with Sausage Toast Pop-overs 

Coffee Milk Cocoa 

LUNCHEON 

Fish Chowder Crackers Bread 

Molasses Cake 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Roast Leg of Lamb Creamed Potatoes Mint Sherbet 

Peach Custard 



230 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 

SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 
Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Grapefruit 

Poached Eggs with Cream Toast Parker House Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

DINNER 

Mock Birds Buttered Asparagus Mock Potato Puff Bread 

Prune Jelly Whipped Cream After-Dinner CofiFee 

LUNCHEON 

Cheese and Date Salad Crackers Bread 

Chocolate Cake Grape Preserve 

Tea Milk 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Toasted Corn Flakes with Sliced Bananas and Milk 

Corn Oysters with Bacon Toast Corn Cakes 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Vegetable Soup Crackers Bread 

Blueberry Shortcake 

DINNER 

Braised Beef with Vegetables as Garnish Spinach Steamed Potatoes 
Coffee Jelly with Cream and Sugar 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 23I 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Cream of Wheat Shredded "Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Meat Souffl6 Stewed Rhubarb Toast 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Potato Salad Peanut Sandwiches 

Cocoanut Cake 

Tea Milk Cocoa (if a cold day) 

DINNER 

Barbecued Ham Hongroise Potatoes Buttered Scullions on Toast 
Vanilla Ice Cream with Chocolate Sauce 



Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit with Dates Milk and Sugar 

Boiled Eggs Toast Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cream of Tomato Toast Bread 

Baking Powder Biscuit with Maple Syrup 

Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Broiled Steak French Fried Potatoes Dandelion Greens Bread 
Strawberry Shortcake 



232 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Rhubarb and Figs 

Lamb Chops Toast Plain Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Sliced Ham Creamed Asparagus 

Tea Milk 

Marshmallow Gingerbread 

DINNER 

Roast Veal Mashed Potatoes Pineapple and Cheese Salad Bread 
Scalloped Rhubarb Hard Sauce 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded "Wheat with Canned Peaches and Cream 
Kippered Herring Toast Raised Muifins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Egg and Peas Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing Ham Sandwiches 

Cottage Pudding Strawberry Sauce 

Tea Milk Cocoa 

DINNER 

Broiled Mackerel Creamed Rice Cucumber Salad Bread 

Baked Custard 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 233 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Cream of Wheat Molded with Dates Cream and Sugar 

Baked Eggs Toast Graham MuflEins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Mexican Ragoiit Potato Cakes Bread 

Rusks Pear Marmalade Coffee 

DINNER 

Corned Beef Maitre d*H6tel Cabbage Delmonico Potatoes Bread 
Fruit Sherbet Wafers 



Sunday 

BREAKFAST 

Strawberries with Powdered Sugar 

Boston Baked Beans Chili Sauce Boston Brown Bread with Raisins 

Coffee Toast Milk 

DINNER 

Chicken Ragofit Boiled Rice Buttered Asparagus on Toast 

Pineapple Jelly After-Dinner Coffee 

LUNCHEON 

Canned Red Cherry and Cheese Salad with French Dressing 

Crackers Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Mocha Nut Cake 

Cocoa Tea Milk 



234 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Monday 

BREAKFAST 

Malt Breakfast Food Milk and Sugar 

Broiled Ham Plain Toast German Toast with Maple Syrup 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Creamed Corned Beef Radishes 

Raspberries Plain Cookies 

Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Beef Roast with Yorkshire Pudding Boiled Potatoes Spinach 

Snowballs with Cherry Sauce 



Tuesday 

BREAKFAST 

Pettijohn's Breakfast Food Cream and Sugar 

Creamed Chicken on Toast Jelly Toast Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Roast Beef Horseradish Sauce Boiled New Potatoes 

Iced Tea Cake with Cocoa Frosting Milk 

DINNER 

Beef Tongue with Tomato Sauce Buttered Potatoes New Carrots 

Raspberry Shortcake 



MENUS FOR SPRING AND SUMMER MONTHS 235 



"Wednesday 

BREAKFAST 

PufiFed Rice Cream and Sugar 

Boiled Eggs Toast Cereal Muffins 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Corn Soup Crackers Bread 

Banana Salad with Cream Mayonnaise Dressing 

Sandwiches Coffee 

DINNER 

Stuffed Shoulder of Lamb Mint Sauce Boiled New Potatoes 

New Peas 
Vanilla Ice Cream with Maple Sauce 



Thursday 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupe 

Cracked Wheat Milk and Sugar 

Bacon Toast Cinnamon Rolls Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Cold Veal or Meat Loaf New Potatoes Creamed Bread 

Raspberries and Cream 

Iced Tea 

DINNER 

Broiled Steak New Potatoes Boiled and Saut6d in Pork Fat 

Beet Greens with Garnish of New Beets 

Blueberry Pie 



236 RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Friday 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Gooseberries 

Cream of Corn on Toast with Bacon Rolls 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Baked Mince with Eggs Rye Bread 

Spice Cake 

Iced Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Broiled Cod or Haddock Samp with Cheese 

Cucumber and Radish Salad 

Caramel Custard with Caramel Sauce 



Saturday 

BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Blueberries Cream and Sugar 

Poached Eggs with Bacon Toast 

Coffee Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Meat Croquettes with Cream Sauce and Peas Bread 

Sponge Cake Berries or Strawberry Jam 

Iced Tea Milk 

DINNER 

Veal Roast Buttered New Potatoes Spinach with Hard-cooked Eggs 
Cantaloupe or Watermelon 



Bibliography 



The Boston Cooking School 

Cook Book 
A New Book of Cookery 
W^hat to Have for Dinner 
Home Science Cook Book 
The Boston Cook Book 
Institution Recipes 
Lowney's Cook Book 
The Complete Cook Book 
The New Hostess of Today 
The Century Cook Book 
Practical Cooking and Serving 
New Cook Book 
The Fireless Cook Book 



Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Fannie Merritt Farmer 

Mary J. Lincoln and Anna Barrows 

Mary J. Lincoln 

Emma Smedley 

Maria Willett Howard 

Marion Harland 

Linda Hull Larned 

Mary Ronald 

Janet McKenzie Hill 

Sarah T. Rorer 

Margaret J. Mitchell 



237 



INDEX 



Alaskan Combination, 199 
Apple Catsup, 9 

Charlotte, 182 

Compote, 2 

Dumplings, 177 

Fritters, 32 

Marmalade, 8 

Sauce I, I 

Sauce II, I 
Cider, 2 
Green, 2 

Tapioca, 172 
Apples, Baked, i 

Fried, 4 

Glazed, 3 

Scalloped, 182 

Spiced, 3 
Apricot Charlotte, 196 

Sherbet, 200 
Apricots, Stewed, 4 
Asparagus, Boiled, 134 

Creamed, 135 

Bacon, 103 

Baked Mince, 120 

Baking Powder, to make, 22 

Bananas, Baked, 4 

Sliced, 5 
Bean Stew, 69 
Beans, Boston Baked, 135 
Spanish, 137 
Stewed Lima, 136 
with Cream, 136 
with Tomato, 136 
String, Buttered, 137 
Canned, 137 
a la Lyonnaise, 138 



Beef, Braised, 86 

Corned, 87 

Creamed Corned, 113 

Creamed Dried, 114 

Frizzled Dried, 114 

Hash, 120 

Loaf, 90 

a la Paysanne, 91 

Pressed, 87 

Roast, 85 

Souffle, 118 

Stew, 89 

Steak, Broiled, 83 
with Onions, 83 
Roll, 84 
Beets, Boiled, 138 

Savory, 138 
Beverages, 49 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 29 

Drop, 29 

Entire Wheat, 30 

Squash, 18 
Blanc Mange, Chocolate, 190 

Plain, 190 
Boiled Dinner, 87 
Bran Cakes, 25 
Bread, 11 

General Directions for, 12 

Batter, 2^ 

Boston Brown, 28 

Corn, 2(i 

Date, IS 

Entire Wheat, 15 

German Coffee, 20 

Graham, 14 

Oatmeal, 16 

Potato, 14 



239 



240 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Bread, Quick Nut, 27 

Rye, 15 

to make with Mixer, 13 

White, 13 
Brussels Sprouts, 139 
Buns, 19 

Hot Cross, 20 



Cabbage, Maitre d'Hotel, 139 

Salad, 163 

Scalloped, 139 
Cake, General Directions for, 202 

Bread, 206 

Chocolate I, 207 

Chocolate II, 208 

Chocolate Cream, 204 

Cream, 203 

Graham, 206 

Molasses, 207 

Plain, 203 

Spanish, 204 

Spice, 208 

Sponge, 20s 

Walnut Mocha, 204 

White, 204 

White Nut, 205 
Cake Fillings, Cream, 212 

Chocolate Cream, 212 
Cakes, Plain Drop, 209 
Carrots, Bechamel, 141 

Boiled, 140 

Creamed with Turnips, 140 

German, 141 
Cauliflower, Buttered, 142 

Creamed, 142 
Celery, Creamed, 142 
Cereals, Methods of Cooking, 38 

Methods of Serving, 39 

Table for Cooking, 39 
Cheese, Cream Toast, 157 

Fondue, 156 

Scalloped, 156 
Chicken, Broiled, 108 

Creamed, 114 



Chicken, Creole, no 
Croquettes, 123 
Fricassee, no 
Fried, 108 
a la Jardiniere, 109 
Pie, III 
Ragout, 116 
Roast, 106 
Smothered, 108 
Souffle, 117 
Stew, 109 
Chocolate Cream, 192 

Reception, 51 
Chops, Baked Lamb, 94 
Broiled, 93 
Pan-Broiled, 94 
Pork, loi 
Chowder, Clam, 68 
Corn, 67 
Fish, 68 
Potato, 67 
Cider Apple Sauce, 2 
Clam Chowder, 68 
Clams, Scalloped, 78 

Steamed, 78 
Cocoa, Breakfast, 50 

Reception, 51 
Coffee, After-Dinner, 49 

Breakfast, 49 
Cold Slaw, 140 
Cookies, Boston, 211 
Oatmeal Drop, 210 
Soft Molasses, 210 
Sugar, 209 
Corn Cakes, Golden, 27 
Corn Chowder, 67 
on Cob, 142 
Oysters, 143 
Pudding, 143 
Scalloped, 143 
Corned Beef Hash, 119 
Cottage Pie, 118 
Pudding, 179 
Crab Apple, Spiced Jelly, lo 
Crabs, 79 



INDEX 



241 



Cranberry Frappe, 198 

Jelly. 5 

Sauce, 5 

Tart Filling, 171 
Cream Puffs, 205 
Cream Tapioca, 194 
Creole Spaghetti, 48 
Croquettes, 122 

Chicken, 123 

Sweet Potato, 155 

Veal, 123 
Croutons, 34 
Crumbs, 34 

Buttered, 34 
Cucumbers, 142 
Custard, Baked, 189 

Caramel, 189 

Peach, 192 . 



Date Patty Cakes, 208 

Dates, 5 

Doughnuts, Raised, 21 
with Sour Milk, 31 
with Sweet Milk, 31 

Dried Apples with Peaches, 4 

Duck, Roast, iii 

Dumplings, 89 
Apple, 177 

Dutch Apple Cake, 178 



Eggplant, 144 
Egg Roll, 177 
Eggs, Baked, 54 
Creamed, 57 
Curried, 57 
Fried, 54 
Poached, 53 
, with Cream Toast, 55 
with Minced Tongue, 54 
Scalloped with Peas, 58 
Scrambled, 57 

with Tomato, 56 
Soft-Cooked, 53 



Fig Tapioca, 193 
Figs and Rhubarb, 6 

Stewed, 6 
Finnan Haddie, Buttered, 76 

Creamed, 124 
Fish, 71 

Baked with Stuffing, 73 
without Stuffing, 74 

Boiled, 72 

Broiled, 73 

Chowder, 68 

to Clean, 71 

Cooking and Serving, 72 

Creamed Salt Cod, 125 

Croquettes, 124 

Fried, 75 

Hash, 125 

Scalloped, 124 

to Skin, 71 

Steamed, 72 

Stuffing for, 74 
Oyster, 74 

Time-table for Cooking, 82: 

when in Season, 71 
Flageolets, 137 
Flour, Bread and Pastry, 11 
Frankfurters, 104 
Frappe, Cranberry, 198 

Grape, 199 
Fritter Batter, 32 
Fritters, Apple, 32 

Hominy, 33 

Rice, 32 
Frosting, Caramel, 214 

Chocolate, 214 

Cocoa, 213 

Mocha, 213 

Orange, 212 

Plain, 212 

White, 213 

White Mountain Cream, 21$, 
Fruit Jelly, 194 

Puffs, 178 

Punch, 52 

Salad, 165 



242 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Gingerbread, 206 
Sour Milk, 207 

Gnocchi, 42 

Goose, Roast, 11 1 

Gooseberries, Stewed, 6 

Graham Gems, 25 

Grape Catsup, 9 

Grapes, Spiced, 8 

Gravy, Brown, 85 
Chicken, 108 

Green Apple Sauce, 2 

Greens, 144 

Griddle Cakes, Rice, 23 
with Sour Milk, ra 
with Sweet Milk, 23 

Halibut a la Creole, 75 
Ham, Baked, 102 

Barbecued, 102 

Boiled, 102 

Broiled, 103 

Fried, 103 

Hash, 122 
Hamburg Steak, 84 
Hash, Beef, 120 

Corned Beef, 119 

Fish, 125 

Ham, 122 

Vegetable, 120 
Hominy, Baked, 42 

Fritters, 33 

Ice Cream, Caramel, 201 

Chocolate, 201 

Ginger, 200 

Vanilla, 200 
Ices, Lemon, 197 

Orange, 198 

Strawberry, 198 
Irish Stew, 96 

Jelly, Coffee, 195 
Fruit, 194 
Lemon, 194 



Jelly, Orange, 194 

Pineapple, 195 

Prune, 195 

Spiced Crab Apple, 10 
Jelly Jumbles, 209 

Kippered Herring, yS 

Lamb, Fricassee of, 97 

Roast, 94 

Shoulder, 95 

Stew, 96 
Lamb Chops, Baked, 94 

Broiled, 93 

Pan-Broiled, 94 
Lemonade, 51 
Liver with Bacon, 91 

Braised, 92 

Loaf, 91 
Lobster, Creamed, 79 

Deviled, 79 

Scalloped, 79 

Macaroni, Boiled, 43 

with Cheese, 44 

with Chicken, 46 

Creamed, 43 

with Eggs, 47 

Italian, 45 

a la Milanaise, 46 

with Peanut Butter, 44 

with Tomato Sauce, 46 
Meat Cakes, 121 

Casserole of Rice and, 117 

Croquettes, 123 

Left-overs, 113 

Minced, 121 

Pie, 118 

Rechauffe of, 115 
Meats, 81 

Time-table for Cooking, 82 
Mexican Chili, 69 

Ragout, 116 
Mince Meat, 171 



INDEX 



243^ 



Mock Birds, 99 
Muffins, Blueberry, 27 

Cereal, 24 

English, 18 

Entire Wheat, 25 

Graham, 25 

Plain, 24 

Raised, 18 

Rye, 25 
Mushes, Fried, 39 
Mutton, Boiled Leg of, 94 

Braised Leg of, 95 

a la Creole, 115 

Curry, 115 

Noodles, 48 

with Cheese, 47 

Omelet, Bread, 55 

Cream, 55 

Rice, 56 

Spanish, 56 
Onions, Boiled, 144 

Creamed, 145 

Sauted, 145 

Scalloped, 145 
Orange Ice, 198 

Jelly, 194 

Marmalade, 8 
Oyster Stew, 66 
Oysters, Creamed, "jj 

Fried, tj 

Panned, tj 

to Parboil, jS 

Raw, 76 

Scalloped, 78 

Parsnip Stew, 70 
Parsnips, with Drawn Butter 
Sauce, 14s 
Sauted, 146 
Paste, Plain, 168 
Peach Custard, 192 
Pears, Baked, 7 



Peas, Canned, 146 
Peppers, Stuffed, 146 
Philadelphia Relish, 130 
Pie, Apple, 168 

Blackberry, 170 

Blueberrj', 170 

Custard, 170 

Lemon, 169 

Mince, 171 

Mock Cherry, 170 

Pumpkin, 169 

Raspberry, 170 

Washington, 204 
Pineapple Delicious, 194 
Pop-overs, 22 
Potato Chowder, (ty 
Potatoes, Austrian, 151 

Baked, 151 

with Bacon, 153 

Broiled, 154 

Cakes, 151 

Creamed, 149 

with Eggs, 150 

Delmonico, 151 

Franconia, 153 

Hashed Brown, 150 

Hongroise, 152 

Lyonnaise, 150 

Maitre d'Hotel, 154 

Mashed, 152 

Mock Puff, 153 

Scalloped, 153 
Pork Chops, loi 
Pork, Cream of Salt, 104 

Crisp Salt, 105 

Roast, 102 
.Poultry, to Clean, 105 

to Select, 105 

to Stuff, 106 
Prune Whip, 175 
Prunes, Stewed, 7 
Pudding, Baked Apple, 178 

Baked Chocolate, 176 

Bellevue, 181 

Caramel Bread, 174 



244 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Pudding, Caramel, 191 
Chocolate Bread, 175 
Cottage, 179 
Cracker, 173 
Cream of Rice, 173 
English Plum, 181 
Graham, 180 
Honeycomb, 176 
Indian, 173 
Norwegian, 191 
Nut, 181 

Orange Marmalade, 174 
Prune, 172 

Ribbon Cornstarch, 190 
Snow, 196 
Spiced, 175 
Steamed, 179 
Suet, 180 

Pabbit Stew, 112 
Raisins, Stewed, 8 
Rhubarb, Baked, 7 

Scalloped, 182 

Stewed, 7 
]Rice, Boiled, 40 

with Cheese, 41 

Creamed, 40 

Curried, 41 

Fritters, 32 

Spanish, 40 

with Tomato, 41 
Rocks, 29 
Rolls, Cinnamon, 30 

Parker House, 17 

Plain, 16 

Potato, 19 

Squash, 18 

Swedish, 20 
Rusks, 17 
Rye Drop Cakes, 32 

"Salads, Apple and Celery, 162 
Apple and Banana, 162 
Banana and Nut, 162 



Salads, Cabbage, 163 

Cabbage and Celery, 163 

Cheese, 163 

Cheese and Pineapple, 164 

Chicken, 164 

Cucumber, 162 ^. 

Daisy, 164 

Egg, 165 

Fruit, 165 

Macedoine, 165 

Potato, 166 

Salmon, I, H, 167 

Tomato, 165 

Uplands, 163 
Salad Dressing, Boiled, 159 

Cream, 159 

French, 160 
Cream, 160 
Creole, 160 

Mayonnaise, 161 
Cream, 161 

Sour Cream, 159 
Sally Lunn, 28 
Salmon Loaf, 125 

Surprise, 126 
Samp, Baltimore, 43 
Sauces for Meat, Bechamel, 130 

Brown, 128 

Cucumber, 131 

Currant Jelly, 130 

Drawn Butter, 128 

Egg, 128 

Horseradish, 131 

Maitre d'Hotel, 131 

Mint, 132 

Mushroom, 128 

Mustard, 132 

Philadelphia Relish, 130 

Pickle, 128 

Piquante, 129 

Spanish, 129 

Tartare, 131 

Tomato, 129 

Highly Seasoned, 129 

White, I, n, HI, 127 



INDEX 



245 



Sauces for Pudding, Apricot, 184 

Caramel, 185 

Chocolate I, II, 184 

Cream, 185 

Creamy, 185 

Foamy, 185 

Fruit, 186 

Grape, 186 

Hard, 186 

Lemon, 186 

Nutmeg, 187 

Orange, 187 

Soft Custard, 188 

Sterling, 188 

Strawberry, 187 

Sunshine, 187 

Vanilla, 187 
Sausages, 103 
Scallops, Deviled, 80 

Fried, 80 

Scalloped, 80 
Scrapple, 104 
Sherbet, Apricot, 200 

Fruit, 199 

Milk, 199 

Mint, 198 

Tapioca, 192 
Shortcake, Peach, 180 

Strawberry, 179 
Shrimps, 79 
Soup, Baked Bean, 65 

Bouillon, 60 

Celery, 62 

Chicken, 60 

to Clear, 60 

Corn, 63 

Cream of Cabbage, 63 
Cheese, 65 
Green Pea, 63 
Tomato, 66 

Lima Bean, 64 

Potato, 62 

Split Pea, 64 
Stock, 59, 60 

Tomato, 65 



Soup, Turkey, 60 

Vegetable, 61 
Spaghetti, Creole, 45 
Spanish Stew, 90 
Sponge Drops, 211 
Squash, Winter, 147 
String Beans, Buttered, 137 

Canned, 137 

a la Lyonnaise, 138 
Stuffing for Duck, 112 

for Goose, iii 

Oyster, 107 

Plain, 107 

for Veal, 98 
Succotash, 147 
Sweet Potatoes, Croquettes, 155 

Glazed, 154 



Tapioca, Apple, 172 

Cream, 193 

Fig, 193 

Sherbet, 192 
Tea, so 

Iced, 50 
Time-table for Cooking Meats 
and Fish, 82 

for Cooking Vegetables, 134 
Toast, Brown, 33 

Cinnamon, 37 

Cream, 35 

Dry, 33 

French, 35 

German, 35 

Hygienic, 33 

Milk, 35 

Oyster and Celery, 36 

Savory, 37 

Tomato, 36 
Tomato Relish, 9 
Tomatoes, Baked, 36 

Scalloped, 148 
Tongue, Boiled, 88 

Braised, 88 



246 



RECIPES AND MENUS FOR FIFTY 



Tripe in Batter, 92 

a la Creole, 93 

Lyonnaise, 93 
Turkey, Roast, 106 
Turkish Pilaf, 42 
Turnips, New York Style, 148 

Scalloped, 148 

Veal, Braised Shoulder of, 98 
Croquettes, 123 
Fricassee of, 98 
Fricassee with Tomato, 99 
Hearts, 100 



Veal, Loaf I, II, 100 

Roast Shoulder of, 97 

Souffle, 117 

Stew, 99 
Vegetables, Curried, 149 

General Directions for, 133 

Hash, 120 

Macedoine of, 149 

Waffles, 23 

Yeast, Liquid, 13 
Yorkshire Pudding, 86 



