
Class _J7JjVL2 
Book__:JZIr7 



Copyright N°. 



/ 



COPYRiGHT DEPOSIT. 



■ =11 

Central Conijregational Cburcb 

Cook lloofe 




A Collection of 1 ne v ery Best Receipts 

used by tne \Vomen of Central Congregational Cnurcn 

Compilea by Division No. 2 



PRESS OF 

THE TRAPP PRINT-SHOP 

TOPEKA, KANSAS 



-\-7 



Copyrighted, 1913 
By the Women of the 
Central Congregational Church 
Topeka, Kansas 



0Ci.A3 61O8 2 



tije ttuo tried anb true toomen 
jHrjcJ. Mov 13, (Built} 

anil 

smv^. €l)avm ^, ^l)ClDon 

Ujf)o Jjnije IjelpeD to niafte our 

Cljurel) a ^ucce^ef^ 

tf):^ booh i^ Detiicoteti 




MRS. ROY B. GUILD 




MRS. CHARLES M. SHELDON 



How^ to Eat a Good Dinner 

First, make sure you have such a dinner, which means, be sure 
this cook book is in your home. Be industrious, so that your credit 
will permit the wife to purchase the things essential to the use of 
these recipes. Still better, have the cash in the family purse as 
anxiety about the coming bills may spoil your digestion, or that of 
the groceryman. 

Second, make sure that you need a good dinner. The knowl- 
edge of honest work well done, and useful work awaiting you is a 
wonderful help to the enjoyment of a meal. Captain John Smith 
ruled according to the laws of health as well as to the laws of 
economy when he declared that the man who did not work, should 
not eat. 

Third, leave your troubles out doors, and, for the dinner, thank 
your heavenly Father who provided, and the wife, or mother, or 
whoever it was who prepared. What more beautiful custom than 
to ask God's blessing at the beginning of the meal and to return 
thanks at the close. 

Fourth, eat in such a way as to get the most real enjoyment 
possible out of the dinner. Some have reduced this to an art, while 
others are terribly artless. The latter should be kept in solitary 
confinement at meal time. God gave us taste that w^e might enjoy 
the delicate flavors He has given to our cooks. What is finer than 
the taste of good bread thoroly masticated? The addition of con- 
diments reduces all foods to a level. The best seasoning is interest- 
ing conversation, which compels leisure. Often the best way to 
secure this seasoning is to have present as a guest one who must 
perforce eat most of his or her meals alone. 

Eat regularl}', eat what is good and is good for you, stop eat- 
ing when your needs are supplied. Thus you will do justice to the 
Good Dinner and go forth to so live as to deserve another. 






10 




REV. ROY B. GUILD, D.D. 

PASTOR 



11 



The Moral Factor in Good Cooking 

The world has never found out exactly the relation between good 
food and goodness; but that there is such a relation seems to be 
firmly established. Soggy bread, underdone potatoes, tough meat, 
uudigestible pastry put into an individual certainly must affect the 
feelings other than his digestive apparatus. Seriously, it is said that 
bad cooking sends many men to drink. The craving for something 
more or better is no doubt responsible for much of the drunken- 
ness of the world. A man whose stomach is satisfied with nourish- 
ing and palatable food ought not to drift into a saloon or crave a 
drink of bitters. Someone has recently said that people had no 
right to enjoy their victuals, but should simply take food as coal is 
shoveled into the fire to keep it going. Most people do not believe 
that, and besides it is not true. Good food was made to be enjoyed, 
and it may be one of the first principles in a home to keep husband 
and children good natured and happy, to set good things on the 
table, well prepared, nourishing, and appetizing, so that those who 
eat may rise satisfied. Along with good cookery should also go the 
knowledge of how to eat what has been prepared. The best food 
may be spoiled in the eating as well as in the making. 

I hope none of the things described in this book will cause 
indigestion, irritation, bad temper, or dissipation, but that 
every person rising from the gastronomic pleasures attendant on 
all these dishes will kiss his wife good-bye as he leaves the house 
and speak kindly words to the dog when he comes back. 



12 




REV. CHARLES M. SHELDON 

MINISTER AT LARGE 





Illustrations 


1 


Central Congregational Church 


^2 


Mrs. Roy B. Guild 


'3 


Mrs. Charles M. Sheldon 


4 


Dr. Guild with signature 


-5 


Dr. Sheldon with signature 


6 


Division No. 2 with officers 


7 


Correct Way to Set a Table 


8 


Parsonage 


9 


Division No. 1 


10 


Preparing a Church Luncheon 


11 


Thank-Offering Supper 


12 


Church Dining Room 


13 


Division No. 3 


•14 


Dr. Sheldon's House and Study 


15 


Division No. 4 


17 


Division No. 2 at Work 


16 


Division No. 5 



'She can bake, she can boil, she can fry. 
Ne'er a cake does she spoil, nor a pie. 

She's perfectly neat, 

Her temper is sweet. 
And this book is the reason why. " 



Xke Central Congregational Church 

COOK BOOK 



RECEIPTS 



BREADS, SANDWICHES, ETC. 

Salt Rising Bread. 

Scald Y2 cupful corn meal with sweet milk and set in a warm 
place over night. In the morning fill a quart vessel 1/3 full of 
warm salted water and thicken with flour until the batter will drop 
from the spoon; add the lightened cornmeal and set in a warm 
place. AVhen the mixture has risen to the top of the vessel scald 
2 quarts of flour with 1 pint of boiling water and add enough cold 
water to make a batter, to which add the "rising" and 1 table- 
spoonful of salt. 

When light add sufficient flour to mould into loaves, knead well, 
put into pans and when light, bake 35 to 40 minutes in a moderate 
oven. It is important that the heat from the beginning to the 
end be as nearly uniform as possible. 

Mrs. 0. H. White. 



Short Process Bread. 

1 cupful liquid lukewarm. 1 tablespoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 compressed yeast cake dissolved in i/4 cupful lukewarm water. 
Add salt, sugar and butter to liquid, which may be either milk or 
water or half of each. Add flour to make a smooth batter; then 
add yeast and more flour to make a dough that can be kneaded. 
Knead 20 minutes, put in a greased bowl to rise to double its size, 
about 1% to 2 hours. Knead 20 minutes and shape into loaves. 
Let rise again and bake. 

Ruth Hughes. 



18 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Raisin Bread. 

2 cupfuls graham flour. 4 heaping teaspoonfuls baking 

2 cupfuls Avhite flour. powder. 

% or 2-3 cupful sugar. 3 cupfuls sweet milk. 

1 egg. 1 cupful raisins or nuts. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Let rise 20 minutes and bake in moderate oven. 

Harriet Booth. 



Graham Bread. 

3 cups gra'ham flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 cup brown sugar. 

Sift these thoroughly, then stir in bran left in sieve. 

Add two cups sour milk. Stir into milk one teaspoon soda 
before adding to dry ingredients. If not quite thick enough add 
little more flour. This makes one quite large loaf. 

Mrs. M. G. Dean. 



Delicate Graham Bread. 

pint graham flour. 2 tablespoonfuls baking powder, 

pint white flour. 11/2 pint milk, 

tablespoonful sugar or 1 tablespoonful salt. 

molasses. 
Bake 25 minutes. Cover with paper 10 minutes. 

Mrs. L. J. Kenney. 



1 cup flour. 
1% cups corn meal. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 



Johnny Cake. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 egg. 

1 cup sweet milk. 

1 tablspoon Cottolene. 

Margaret E. Whittemore. 



BREAD 



19 



Corn Bread. 

1 egg well beaten. 1 scant teaspoonful soda. 

1 pt. sour milk (buttermilk i/o cupful flour with an even 

preferred). teaspoonful baking powder 

2 tablespoonfuls shortening. stirred in it. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 2 cupfuls cornmeal. 

1 small teaspoonful salt. 

Put shortening into the pan to heat, then stir most of it into 
the bread leaving some to grease the pan. Bake in a hot oven. 

Mrs. C. M. Lowe. 



cupfuls of pure bran, 
cupfuls of whiteflour. 
cupful of sugar, 
cupfuls of sweet milk. 
Bake 45 minutes in a slow oven. 



Bran Bread. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 



This makes 2 loaves, 

Caroline Prentis. 



Oatmeal Bread. 

2 cupfuls rolled oats. 7 cupfuls white flour. 

4 cupfuls boiling water. 1 cake compressed yeast. 

1 cupful molasses. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Pour boiling water over oatmeal, add salt. When cool enough 
add compressed yeast, molasses and white flour, stir well and let 
stand over night. In the morning stir down and fill coffee cans half 
full. Let rise until 2/3 full and bake in a slow oven 2 hours with 
covers on the cans. 

Mrs. Charles M. Sheldon. 



1 cupful sugar. 

1 ess- 

1 cupful milk. 

1 scant teaspoonful salt. 



Nut Bread. 

3 heaping teaspoonfuls baking 

powder. 
Flour to m'ake like cake, about 

IY2 cupfuls. 



1 cupful chopped walnut meats. 

Put in greased pan, let stand 20 minutes, bake in slow oven 
about 45 minutes. 

Miss Luella Miller. 



20 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Nut Bread. 

1 egg. 4 lieaping teaspoonfuls baking 

1 1-3 cupfuls milk. powder. 

Mi cupful sugar. 1 heaping cupful nuts, broken up. 

4 cupfuls flour. Salt. 

Let stand M.' hour before baking. Bake I/2 to % hour. 

Ethel Traver. 



Nut Bread. 

1 cupful graham, unsifted. 1 tea spoonful salt. 

2 cupfuls flour. 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
1 cupful white sugar. 2I/2 cupfuls sweet milk. 

1 cupful nuts. 1 egg. 

Let rise 10 min. and bake % of an hour. 

Mrs. C. E. Joss. 



Nut Bread. 

2 cupfuls white flour. 1 tablespoonful salt. 

2 cupfuls graham flour. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 cupfuls sweet milk. 4 rounding teaspoonfuls baking 

1 cupful coarse ground nut powder. 

meats. 

Let rise 20 minutes and bake slowly 1 hour. Makes splendid 
sandwiches. 

Mrs. E. A. Fredenhagen. 



Nut Loaf. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 4 rounded teaspoonfuls of baking 

1 cupful of sugar. powder. 

2 cupfuls of milk. 1 cupful of English walnuts, 
2 cupfuls of white flour. chopped. 

2 cupfuls of graham flour. Salt. 

Stir up quickl}^ and let stand 20 minutes in buttered pan to rise. 
Lake slowly 40 or 45 minutes. 

Helen Cornelia Rosen. 



BREAD 



21 



1 eupful white flour. 
% cupful graham flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls baking powder 
1/2 cupful sugar. 
^ teaspoomful salt. 

Mix dry ingredients. 



Nut Bread. 

Yo egg, well beaten. 

1 cupful milk. 

14 cupful English walnuts. 

1/^ cupful raisins. 



Add 



milk slowly, then egg and beat 
thoroughly. Put in a buttered bread pan and bake in a moderate 
oven 45 min. 

Catherine Stanley 



Indian Loaf. 



2 cups corn meal. 

2 cups white flour. 

1 teaspoon (level) salt. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 



14 cup sugar. 



Must be thinner than cake. 



1/2 cup molasses. 
2 teaspoons cinnamon. 
1/^ nut meg. 
1 or 2 eggs. 
Wet with milk. 
Steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. Wm. M. Shaver. 



Brown Bread. 



2 eggs. 

2 cupfuls sweet milk. 
4 cupfuls graham flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Steam 2 hours or bake in slow oven 1 



% cupful light brown sugar 
% cupful molasses. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 



hr. 



Cora M. Johnson. 



Boston Brown Bread. 

Yo cupful molasses. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 great spoonful salt. 



qt. meal (white). 
cupfuls flour, 
qt. sweeit milk. 
cupful sour milk. 
Steam in buttered tins 3 hours. 

I learned to make this brown bread in Maine and like it best 
of any receipt I have ever seen. I always use white corn meal. 

Mrs. Edwin A. Austin. 



22 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

Iscant pt. of yellow corn meal. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 scant pt. of flour. 1 pint butter milk. 
% cupful sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls New Orleans 

Molasses, 
Steam 2 hours and do not uncover. Dry off in oven. 

Mrs. L. H. Bracy. 



Brown Bread. 

2 cupfuls corn meal. 2-3 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cupfuls flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cupful molasses. 1 cupful milk, sour preferred. 

Steam 3 hours in double boiler. This tastes better than it sounds. 

Mrs. Etta W. Gilmore. 



Raisin Brown Bread. 

1 egg. 1 cupful white flour. 

2-3 cupful brown sugar. 1 cupful graham flour. 

1 cupful sour milk. 1 cupful seeded raisins. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Sprinkle top with sugar, bake an hour. 

Mrs. Carrie Johnston. 



Boston Brown Bread. 

Yo cupful white flour. 1^/4 teaspoonfuls soda. 

1/2 cupful corn meal. 1 cupful sour milk. 

1/2 cupful graham flour. 5 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix dry ingredients thoroughly, stir sour milk and molasses 
together, stir in dry ingredients. Turn into well buttered can, 
cover tightly and steam 11/2 to 2 hours. Remove cover and dry 
in over 15 minutes. 

Mrs. H. J. Wingart. 



BREAD 23 

Biscuit. 

2 cupfuls of flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 level teaspoonful of salt. 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder together; mix with these a 
piece of lard the size of an egg. Mix with your fingers until very 
smooth, then add sweet milk enough to moisten all of it, stir a 
minute with a spoon, then turn out on a well floured board. Roll 
out gently about 1/2 an inch thick, cut with a small biscuit cutter, 
place in a shallow pan and bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. Geo, C. Beach. 



Parker House Rolls. 

Rub 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 of lard into 11/2 quarts 
flour, add a little salt and V2 cupful sugar. Boil a good pint of 
milk and let it cool, if wanted for tea put together the night before. 
Make a well in the flour and turn a dissolved yeast cake, sugar and 
milk into the well, but do not stir until morning, then stir and 
knead and let rise until tea time. To mould roll out and cut witli 
a cake cutter; spread a little butter on one side and turn tlie other 
half over it. 

Mrs. M. E. Currier. 



Rolls. 

Scald 3 cupfuls of new milk at night. When cool or lukewarm 
add y<2, cupful sugar, the yeast and enough flour to make a batter 
like bread. In the morning add V2 cupful melted butter and the 
whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then mix up. When light 
roll out and cut in small cakes and let risf again. Just before 
baking rub over with white of ^^^ and a little sugar. 

Mrs. H. M. Wolcott. 



Curried Bread Rolls. 

Cut bread about % in. thickness and as fresh as can be cut. Mix 
% cupful of grated cheese with enough cream to make a smooth 
paste. Season with curry powder, pepper and salt. Spread the 
bread with this mixture, roll and bake in oven till "crispy brown*'. 
Serve hot. 

Louise Pontius. 



24 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Graham Gems (An Old Receipt.) 

1 pint of sweet milk. 1 egg. 

1 pint of graham flour. Small pinch of salt. 

Heat very thoroughly and have gem pans and oven very hot, in 
order to have the gems light. 

Mrs. Geo. T. Holyoke. 



Health Gems. 
1 cupful bran. 1 cupful sour milk. 

Yi cupful flour. 1 level teaspoonful soda. 

1/4 cupful nuts. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

14 cupful raisins. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Mrs. G. Greenwood. 



Corn Dodgers. 

1 cupful white corn meal, scald A pinch of salt. 

with boiling water. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Beat well the whites of 2 eggs and mix lightly. Drop by spoon- 
fuls on a buttered pan and bake in a quick oven. 

C. M. Leavitt. 



Corn Meal Gems. 
1 cupful corn meal. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

M> cupful flour. 2 teaspoonsful baking powder. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Sift together into mixing bowl. Break 1 egg into cup and fill 
cup with sweet milk. Beat all together. Add 1 tablespoonful melted 
butter. Bake in gem pans in moderate oven 10 or 15 minutes. 

Mrs. J. C. "Wolcott. 



Graham Muffins. 

One cupful of graham flour; one teaspoonful of salt; one cupful 
of white flour; a quarter of a cupful of sugar; one cupful of milk; 
one egg; three teaspoonfuls of baking powder; one tablespoonful 
of melted butter. Mix and sift ingredients, add gradually the egg 
well beaten with the milk and the melted butter. Bake in hot but- 
tered gem pans twenty-five minutes. 

Ada MeCray. 



BREAD 25 

Bran Muffins. 

2 cupfuls bran, 1 level teaspoonful soda. 

1 cupful flour. 11/4 cupfuls sweet milk. 

5 tablespoonfuls molasses. y^ cupful raisins. 



Bake in a slow oven. 



Mrs. Eunice Bair. 



White Mountain Muffins. 

14 cup butter. Vo teaspoon salt. 

1/4 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

2 cups flour. % cup milk, 

1 egg. 

Beat butter, sugar and egg to a cream, sift together flour, salt 
and baking powder, then add milk. Beat all together and bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. Have pans hot when batter is put in. 

Mrs. J. F, Simonds, 



Raised Waffles. 

Stir into 1 quart luke warm milk, enough flour to make a stiff 
batter. Sift the flour in gradually to prevent it being lumpy, ^/^ 
cupful yeast, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, i/> teaspoonful soda 
sifted in flour, 1 teaspoonful salt. Stir these ingredients in with 
the flour, adding butter last, set to raise over night and in the morn- 
ing bake. 

Mrs. Rad M. Lee. 



Waffles. 

1 cupful flour. 2 eggs. 

i/> teaspoon salt. 1 cupful milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Sift together flour, salt and baking powder. Add the yolks of 
the eggs and milk, beating w^ell so as to make a smooth batter. Stir 
in the melted butter and at the last moment put in the stiffly beaten 
whites of the eggs. Bake in hot, well greased waffle irons. 

Mrs. A. P. Bishop. 



26 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Russian Sandwiches. 

Spread thin slices of Boston brown bread, lightly buttered with 
Neufehatel or any cream cheese. Spread also an equal number of 
slices, buttered with fine chopped olives and pimentos mixed with 
mayonnaise dressing. Press together in pairs with a crisp heart leaf 
of lettuce between each pair. Serve while the lettuce is fresh. 

Emma Pontious 



Almond Celery Sandwich. 
A delicious sandwich filling is made from 1 part chopped al- 
monds and 2 parts shredded or grated celery, pinch of salt. Moisten 
the mixture with mayonnaise and spread between the crustless slices 
of brown bread. 

Mrs. J. B. Heck. 



The following are very good and healthful lunches for children 
at kindergarten or school and are convenient and appreciated by 
the teacher, as time and trouble often taken for wiping the mouth 
and fingers can be dispensed with. 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches, cheese sandwiches, nuts ground 
with salad dressing sandwiches, ground cucumber sandwiches, pea- 
nut butter sandwiches, bread and butter sandwiches with lettuce 
leaf, crackers with peanut butter, picked out nuts, cookies, apples, 
pears and bananas. 

June R. Chapman. 



Peanut butter for sandwiches is much improved by mixing milk 
or water with it until it is about the consistency of thick cream. 
It is usually necessary to add salt also. 

Helen T. Capps. 



Sandwiches. 

Date filling for sandwiches with bread. 

1 lb. seeded dates. i/'o cupful sugar. 

% cupful water. ■■ 

Cook in a double boiler. 

Kequa Rioner 



BREAD 27 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Melt to a creamy consistency one fourth pound cheese and one 
teaspoon butter. Add the mixture of one teaspoon flour, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one-quarter teaspoon mustard, and a dash of cayenne. 
Add one egg, well beaten, stirring rapidly the while to keep from 
forming lumps. Lastly add one cup hot milk. Cook until smooth. 
After cooling add a small amount of chopped Pimento or chopped 
stuffed olives if desired. Spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread with a crisp lettuce leaf. 

Mary E. Hoover. 



28 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

SALADS 

Vegetable Salad. 

This is good in Winter when vegetables are scarce. 
1 bunch hot-house lettuce. 1 stalk celery. 

4 hard boiled eggs. Vs lb. of nuts. 

Part of one pimento. 1 cup of salad dressing. 

Cut with shears the lettuce, celery and pimento into rather small 
pieces, and chop the nut-meats and eggs. Place about 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of lettuce on a salad plate, on this about 2 tablespoonfuls of 
the celery, in the center of this the egg (allowing about one-half of 
an egg to a plate), on this one spoonful of the salad dressing, it 
should be rather stiff so it will not run and smear the salad, then 
sprinkle a few pieces of the nuts over the mixture and the pieces 
of the pimento on the dressing. This will make you a bright, pretty 
salad as well as inexpensive and wholesome. 

Mrs. D. 0. Coe. 



Tomato Jelly Salad. 

1 can tomatoes. i/^ cup chopped celery. 

1 slice of onion. Salt and pepper. 

Bring to boiling point. Strain and add half a box of gelatine 
that has been soaked for half an hour in half a cupful of cold water. 
Add juice of a lemon and turn into small molds. Serve with may- 
onnaise dressing. 

Mrs. W. G. Magaw. 

Potato Salad. 

4 medium sized potatoes. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Butter size of an egg. 1 teaspoonful celery seed. 

1 small onion. 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. 

4 hard boiled eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

V2 cupful salad dressing. 

When the potatoes are just done, put in a chopping bowl and add 
butter, sugar, salt, vinegar and celery seed. Chop and mix. Add 
onion sliced very fine and salad dressing. Mix again. Chop the eggs 
through it, not too fine. 

Mrs. F. M. Spencer. 



SALADS 29 

Salmon Salad. 

1 can salmon. 1 cupful coarse cracker crumbs. 

3 hard boiled eggs. 3 medium sized sour pickles. 

Shred salmon, removing larger bones, cut pickles fine, mince the 
eggs, add crackers and mix together lightly with a fork. Pour over 
enough of the following dressing to make moist, but do not stir 
only enough to mix. 

Salad Dressing. 

3 eggs. 1 tablespoon mustard. 

1 cup cream. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 cup vinegar. 1 tablespoon flour. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon melted butter. 

Mix dry ingredients, add eggs, beaten separately if you wish 
the dressing very light and creamy, in that case reserve the whites 
until the last thing. Add the cream slowly, beating all the time, 
then the vinegar, still beating the mixture. Cook till thick, add 
butter and the egg whites, if you have reserved them, after taking 
from the stove. 

This recipe may be varied omitting one or even two eggs, using 
milk instead of cream. 

Mira A. Neal. 



Oyster Salad. 

1 can cove oysters or equal Sweet pickles, few. 

quantity of fresh. English walnuts, few. 

3 crackers. 

Chop oysters, pickles and nuts fine. Crush crackers. 

Dressing. 

V2 cupful vinegar. 1/0 cupful sugar. 

3 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

V4. teaspoonful salt. 

Cook until it thickens, add % cupful cream just before taking 
from fire. When cool mix with the salad. 

Elsie Hobson. 



30 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Easy Apple Salad. 

Six medium sized apples, chopped fine, four bananas sliced, juice 
of one lemon, one-third of a cup of sugar, one-third cup nut meats. 
Any fruit juice if added will add to the excellency of the flavor. 

Ella M. Pixley. 



Fruit Salad with Nuts. 
1 orange sliced. 1 cupful grape fruit or pineapple. 

1 cupful tart apples. % cupful sliced nuts (any kind 

1 banana sliced. of nut). 

Serve with following dressing. 

2 eggs. 14 cupful orange juice. 
1/4 cupful sugar. i/4 cupful lemon juice. 

To the slightly beaten eggs, add the fruit juices and sugar. 
Moisten a teaspoonful of cornstarch with cold water and add to 
the juices. Cook in double boiler until thickened. 

Mrs. J. T. Danley. 



Fruit Salad. 

2 oranges. 6 apples. 

1 lb. white grapes. 1 can pineapple. 

1/2 lb. English walnuts May add few stalks celery. 

6 bananas. 

Dressing. 

1 tablespoonful water. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Butter size of a walnut. 1/2 teaspoonful mustard. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. Pinch of salt. 

Juice of 1 lemon. 

Cook and when cool add 1 cupful whipped cream. Pour over the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 

Mrs. Cora Rinner. 



Cocoanut Salad. 

Mix 1 cupful shredded cocoanut with 1 banana. sliced, % cupful 
chopped celery and juice of one lemon. Arrange on lettuce leaves 
and over all pour a French dressing. 

Mrs. F. T, Lyman. 



SALADS 31 

Chicken Salad. 

Use two-thirds of celery to one-third of chicken. Cut up coarsely 
the celery and cold chicken. If the chicken is dry, add a little of 
the liquor in which it was cooked. When ready to serve, mix the 
celery and chicken together and pour over it a mayonnaise dress- 
ing, mixing it thoroughly with the salad. 

Serve on lettuce leaves. This salad will be greatly improved if 
a few chopped olives and a dessert spoonful of capers are added. 
Then garnish with a slice of cold hard boiled egg, a whole olive, a 
split radish and a long three-cornered slice of lemon. 

Mrs. Catherine C. Turner. 



Chicken Salad. 

Cut cold boiled chicken in cubes, add equal parts celery cut in 
small pieces, a few stuffed olives, nuts and hard boiled eggs. Serve 
in bowl with french dressing. 

Dressing. 

^4 teaspoonful salt. ^4 teaspoonful pepper. 

2 teaspoonfuls vinegar. 3 or 4 teaspoonfuls olive oil. 

Mrs. E. L. O'Niel. 



Marguerite Salad. 

Boil eggs hard, allowing one egg to a person. Cut eggs in halves 
lengthwise. Remove yolks. Mash yolks fine with fork, seasoning 
with salt and pepper. Cut whites lengthwise into 8 strips as petals 
on water cress or shredded lettuce. Fill in center with mashed 
yolks, thus giving the appearance of a marguerite. 

Hermione Van Laer. 



Tomato Salad. 

Slice a number of chilled tomatoes and arrange on plate. 
Moisten a cupful of deviled ham with mayonnaise dressing and 
form into small balls. 

Place 1 on each slice of tomato. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. Hand. 



32 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 







Division No. 


1. 




Chairman, Mrs. J. 


P. Wahle. 


Mrs. 


Chas. Adams. 


Miss Martha McCoy. 


Mrs. 


W. H. Bowlby. 


Miss 


Annie McKee. 


Mrs. 


Oscar Booth. 


Mrs. 


S. C. Kersey. 


Miss Harriet Booth. 


Mrs. 


K. B. Moore. 


Mrs. 


Elizabeth Bailey. 


Miss 


Harriet Munday. 


Mrs. 


J. N. Beasley. 


Mrs. 


E. L. O'Neil. 


:\Irs. 


W. A. Callahan. 


Mrs. 


H. E. Peers. 


Mrs. 


J. P. Clawsey. 


Mrs. 


W. J. V. Deacon. 


Mvs. 


J. A. Crabb. 


Mrs. 


D. R. Pelton. 


Mrs. 


John Currier. 


Mrs. 


Jno. Sargent. 


Mrs. 


J. J. Everhard. 


Mrs. 


F. K. Sanders. 


Mrs. 


Aliec J. Gillespie. 


Mrs. 


B. L. Seeley. 


Mrs. 


Jennie Grant. 


Mrs. 


E. S. Shaler. 


Miss 


Jessie Guild. 


Miss 


Stella Simonds. 


Mrs. 


M. S. Harrington. 


Miss 


E. A. Smith. 


Mrs. 


J. B. Heck. 


Mrs. 


E. F. Stanley. 


Mrs. 


E.H. Hogueland. 


Mrs. 


E. R. Taylor. 


Mrs. 


A. S. Huling. 


Mrs. 


Ella Tucker. 


Mrs. 


C. A. Kline. 


Mrs. 


J. Sidney Gould. 


]\rrs. 


Alice Kingman. 


Mrs. 


R. B. Guild. 


Mrs. 


Dewitt Lee. 


Mrs. 


H. M. Washburn 


Mrs. 


F. L. Lee. 


Mrs. 


H. M. White. 


Mrs. 


Paul Lovewell. 


Mrs. 


H. J. Wingert. 


Mrs. 


E. L. McGuire. 


Mrs. 


J. A. Worcester. 



< 
w 
o 

•z 

o 




SALAD DRESSING 33 



Apricot Salad. 

1 lb. Apricots. 12 marshmallows. 

V2 cupful pecan nuts. 

Soak and stew apricots. Chop marshmallows and nuts. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

% teaspoonful salt. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1/2 teaspoonful dry mustard. 1 teaspoonful butter. 

1 teaspoonful cornstarch. Few grains of cayenne pepper. 

. Cook and when cold add 1 cupful whipped cream, nuts and 
marshmallows. Place several apricots on a lettuce leaf, and cover 
with dressing. 

Lottie A. Case. 



Marshmallow Salad. 

Equal parts of seeded white grapes, bananas, sliced pineapple and 
English walnuts and Mi lb. marshmallows broken in small pieces. 

Dressing- for Same. 

1 cupful Avhipped cream. 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise. 

1 cupful pulverized sugar. 

Serve on lettuce leaves and decorate with candied cherries. 

Mrs. W. A. Johnson, 

Downs, Kansas. 



Cream Slaw. 

1 gallon cabbage. % cupful sugar. 

1 pt. sour cream. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful flour. Butter size of a walnui. 

1 pt. vinegar. 

Put vinegar, sugar and butter in a sauce pan and let boil. Stir 
eggs, cream and flour well mixed into the vinegar, boil thoroughly 
and throw over cabbage springled with salt and pepper. 

Mrs. Hodge. 



34 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Bean Salad. 

1 cupful of l)aked beans. 2 tablespoons chopped onion, 
3 hard boiled eggs. 2 tablespoons chopped pickle 

2 cups of chopped cabbage. 

Mix and pour over Salad Dressing. 

Mrs. W. E. Brehm. 



Hot Slaw. 

JShred a small head of cabbage very fine. Put a tablespoonful of 
l/utter in the bottom of a kettle and add the cabbage with a very 
little water. Cook about thirty minutes, then put in one pint of 
thick sour cream and boil about five minutes. Add a teacupful of 
sour vinegar into which have been put pepper, sugar, salt and a 
pinch of mustard. Let come to a boil, then take up immediately. 

Helen B. Shaver. 



Cabbage Salad. 

Five tablespoonsful of rich cream, five tablespoonsful of sugar, 
and three of vinegar. A teaspoonful of white mustard, a teaspoonful 
of butter and bring these to the boiling point. Sprinkle a little salt 
over one quart of finely chopped cabbage and pour the boiling dress- 
ing over it. 

Edna Clark. 



Salad Dressing-. 
1 egg. 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. Pinch of salt. 

y^ teaspoonful mustard. A little warm water. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

First stir together the salt, sugar and mustard, then the butter 
and add egg, next the vinegar and warm water, if a larger amount 
is desired you can double this receipt. After thoroughly mixing 
these ingredients, cook in a double boiler about five min. 

Julia S. Smith, 



SALAD DRESSING 35 



Salad Dressing (inexpensive). 

1 cupful vinegar. 1 tablespoonful flour (heaping). 

1 cupful buttermilk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 can (small) condensed milk. i/o teaspoonful white pepper. 

3 eggs. 1/4 cupful sugar. 

1 tablespoonful mustard. 

Put vinegar, sugar, salt and pepper in a sauce pan and let boil 
thoroughly, beat the flour and mustard smooth with a little milk, 
then add the beaten eggs and milk, pour this into the boiling vine- 
gar and stir constantly until it boils. For fruit salad dilute this 
dressing with whipped cream 1/3 dressing 2/3 cream. 

Mrs. H. E. Peers. 



Mayonnaise Salad Dressing. 

The secret of making good salad dressing is to have everything, 
materials and utensils ice-cold. (Not necessarily the person making 
it, however.) 

Materials — 
1 teaspoonful salt. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 1% cupfuls olive oil. 

1 teaspoonful powdered sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 
A few grains, more or less, of 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
cayenne pepper. 

As above stated have everything ice cold; the olive oil, eggs, 
eggbeater, bowls, etc. Should have been on the ice sometime pre- 
vious, olive oil should always be kept on the ice. Mix together 
the pepper, salt, mustard and powdered sugar, then add the yolks 
and beat thoroughly with Dover egg-beater. The bowl in which 
this is made should stand in a larger bowl in which are pieces of 
ice, so that the mixture may be kept ice cold while being mixed. 
Then add a teaspoonful of vinegar, then begin adding very slowly 
drop by drop the olive oil, alternating the lemon juice and vinegar 
and the olive oil, beating constantly with the egg-beater. If the 
oil is not added slowly or if the ingredients are not kept ice cold, 
the entire mixture may curdle. If this should happen, take another 
yolk and add the curdled mixture slowly beating constantly. If 
properly made this dressing is smooth and delicious. 

Mary Harrison. 



36 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Sandwich, Salad or Meat Dressing. 
Yolks of 5 eggs, beaten until 1 cupful vinegar. 

light. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

1 small cupful of cream. A pinch of salt. 

Beat all the ingredients together and pour into the boiling vine- 
gar, stirring rapidly, cooking until it has the consistency of cream. 
This will keep nicely for a long time. 

Vivian Bracy. 



Fruit Salad Dressing. 
1 cupful sugar. 1 teaspoonful mustard. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Mix together. Add 1 cupful weak vinegar, when cooked set on 
back of stove. In about 5 minutes beat up one egg and stir in. 
Dilute with half thick cream when using. Keeps indefinitely. 

Louise Wolcott. 



Cream Salad Dressing. 

1 tablespoonful butter (heap- 1 tablespoonful mustard. 

ing). 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 tablespoonful flour (heaping). 1/2 cupful vinegar (scant). 
1 cupful milk. 1 or 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Melt butter and mix in the flour, then add slowly the cup of 
milk and cook, then add the other ingredients to the beaten eggs 
and mix all together. Cook until creamed. This may be varied 
by using less vinegar and mustard and adding more sugar and 
whipped cream. 

Bessie M. Forbes. 



Fruit Salad Dressing. 
2 egg yolks. 3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

Juice of 1 lemon. A little salt. 

Beat egg yolks until light colored, add sugar and beat again, when 
creamy add lemon juice and salt, arrange fruit in layers, pour dress- 
ing over each layer and serve very cold. 

Mira A. Neal. 



SALAD DRESSING 37 



Salad Dressing. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 1 egg beaten. 

1 tablespoonful dry mustard. 5 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1^ cupful sweet milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. % cupful vinegar. 
Mix the above and add 

Cook in double boiler until thickens. Makes 1 pt. 

Mrs. Grice. 



Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Mix the yolk of an egg with four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 
beating it well with a fork. Add a little honey, salt and the juice 
of 1 lemon. Add the white of the egg well beaten. 

Lida M. Hardy. 



Cream Fluff Dressing. 

1 cupful milk or cream. Two-thirds cupful sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, dis- Pinch of salt. 

solved in Vanilla and lemon flavoring. 

4 tablespoonfuls milk. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Put together the milk, sugar, salt and flavoring and let come 
to a boil; then stir in cornstarch till it thickens. Have egg whites 
stiffly beaten and fold mixture into them very gently while it is 
boiling hot. Put aside to chill. This dressing will serve as a filling 
or finish for many desserts. Can be used with cut fruits; fruit 
tapioca puddings; also gelatines and sliced cake with chopped nuts. 

Marion Peers. 



38 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



FISH 

Baked Fish. 

Channel eat or white fish is best for this. Clean thoroughly; 
wipe off with a damp cloth ; salt inside ; fill cavity with dressing 
and sew up. Cover fish with paste made from 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour and 1 tablespoonful of butter rubbed together. Lay in bak- 
ing pan ; place a couple of slices of bacon on top ; pour boiling water 
over this until the bottom of pan is covered ; baste often and bake 
fifteen minutes to the pound. 

Annie Laurie McKee. 



Italian Codfish. 

1/4 lb. macaroni in small pieces. 1 tablespoonful butter. 
One-third as much fish. 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 

Boil macaroni until tender in boiling salted water; drain; stir in 
the butter and cheese ; add a third as much fresh or freshened cod 
as you have macaroni, and put into a buttered baking dish. Add 
a little milk and scatter buttered bread crumbs on top. Bake cov- 
ered yo hr. and then brown. 

Sarah Philena Sheldon. 



Escalloped Tuna. 

1 can tuna. % slice onion. 

1 cupful milk. Salt and pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 2 hard cooked eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. % cupful buttered crumbs. 

Sprig of parsley. Bay leaf. 

Make white sauce of butter, flour and milk, in which bay, pars- 
ley and onion have been scalded. Cover bottom of buttered baking 
dish or ramekins with a layer of fish, seasoned with salt and pep- 
per. Add a layer of sliced egg and pour over half of the white 
sauce. Repeat and over the white sauce sprinkle the buttered 
crumbs. A grating of Parmesan cheese adds to the flavor and ap- 
pearance. Bake in a hot oven until crumbs are nicely brown. 

Edith Ingham. 



FISH 39 

Scalloped Salmon. 
1 can salmon, 1 cupful cracker crumbs. 

1 cupful butter. Salt and pepper to suit your taste. 

3 eggs. 

Remove bones and mince the salmon fine ; then add the eggs well 
beaten, butter and part of the cracker crumbs and the seasoning. 
Put in a baking dish and scatter the remaining crackers over the 
top. Bake twenty minutes. 

Mrs. J. Jay Henderson. 



Salmon Loaf. 

1 can salmon minced with juice of one lemon. Add one table- 
spoon butter, salt and pepper. Use several crumbled crackers and 
two eggs beaten together. Bake in loaf. 

Mrs. Lyndon F. Day. 



Creamed Salmon. 
1 pt. milk. Salt and pepper. 

Butter size of an egg. Put on to heat. 

When this comes to a boil, stir in 1 cupful of flour, mixed with 
water. When thoroughly cooked and cooled, stir in 2 well beatun 
eggs. 

Yy can salmon broken fine. 

Then butter your baking dish, put 1 layer cream, 1 salmon, 1 
cracker crumbs, a little butter and salt and pepper. Repeat until 
all is used and finish with cream on top; put in hot oven; bake V2 
hour and serve in same dish. 

Florence Langstaff. 



Oyster Blanketed Steak. 
Trim a thin sirloin steak. Broil on hot coals about 7 minutes. 
E^emove from the fire and dust with salt and pepper. Spread with 
oysters, dust them with salt, pepper and bits of butter. Place in a 
hot oven and cook until the edges of the oysters curl. Remove from 
oven and garnish with celery and slices of lemon. 

Mrs. M. W. Baker. 



40 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK " , 

Oysters and Macaroni. 
% pound macaroni. 2 eggs, or it is very good with- 

in pint oysters. out any. 

1% cupfuls sweet milk. 1 cupful cracker dust. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 
Break the macaroni into inch pieces. Put it into boiling water 
and boil 20 minutes. Skim it out, and put a thick layer of it in 
the bottom of a buttered pudding dish. Put the oysters and liquor 
on this, with bits of butter, pepper and salt. Add the remainder of 
the macaroni; beat the eggs well; mix with milk, pour over and 
spread the cracker crumbs over the top. Bake 30 minutes, or less, 
if the oven is very hot. See that it is brown on top. 

Ethel McKibben. 



Scalloped Oysters. 

Crush and roll several handfuls of crackers; put a layer in the 
bottom of a buttered pudding dish ; wet this with a mixture of the 
oyster liquor and milk, slightly warmed; next have a layer of 
oysters; sprinkle with salt and pepper and lay small bits of butter 
upon them ; then another layer of moistened crumbs and so on until 
the dish is full. Let the top layer be of crumbs thicker than the 
rest and beat an egg into the milk you pour over them. Stick bits 
of butter thickly over it ; cover the dish and bake Mi an hour in a 
moderate oven ; remove the lid and brown. 

Mrs. Nannie J. Thomas. 



CHICKEN 41 



CHICKEN 

Chicken Fricassee. 

Dress, clean and cut up a fowl. Put in kettle, nearly cover with 
boiling water, cook slowly until tender, adding salt to water when 
chicken is about half done. Remove from water, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, dredge with flour and saute brown in butter or pork 
fat. Arrange chicken on warm platter, having wings and second 
joints opposite each other, breast in center of platter and drum- 
sticks cross just below second joints. Pour around this a brown 
sauce made by browning butter and flour and adding the chicken 
broth and season with salt and pepper. 

Fowls which must be made tender by long cooking may be 
treated this way. If young chickens are used, they should be sauted 
without previous boiling. 

Mrs. Obrecht. 



Jellied Chicken. 

Boil one chicken until the meat slips easily from the bones, re- 
ducing the water to 1 quart in boiling; pick off the meat in good 
sized pieces, taking out all the fat and bones; skim the fat from 
the liquor, add a little butter, pepper and salt to taste and l^ ounce 
of gelatine; when this dissolves pour it hot over the chicken. Sea- 
son the liquor highly, as the chicken absorbs much of the flavor; 
mold and slice when cold, putting a spoonful of creamy mayonnaise 
on each slice. 

Mrs. R. E. Mayhew. 

Maryland Chicken. 
2 chickens. 2 eggs. 

1/3 cupful butter. Salt and pepper. 

2 cupfuls cream, or white sauce. Flour and bread crumbs. 

Dress, clean and cut up chickens, sprinkle with salt and pepper; 
dip in beaten egg, flour and bread crumbs; place in a well greased 
dripping pan and bake about 1 hr. in a hot oven ; basting after the 
first 5 minutes of cooking with the melted butter. Arrange on 
platter and pour over it the cream or white sauce. 

Mrs. L. C, Hughea. 



/^2 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Chicken Croquettes. 

1/2 lb. finely chopped chicken, A few drops onion juice or a 
i/o teaspoonful salt. particle of chopped onion. 

1/2 teaspoonful celery salt. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

1/2 salt-spoonful white pepper. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 
Mix with white sauce as follows: 

1 cupful cream or milk. 1 salt spoon salt. 

2 even tablespoonfuls butter. y^ salt spoonful celery salt. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour. A few grains of cayenne pepper. 
Form in cubes or any desired shapes. Roll in egg and crumbs 
and fry in hot fat. 

Mrs. Helwig. 



Creamed Chicken. 

1 chicken (4i/2 lbs.) 1 can mushrooms. 

4 sweet breads. 

Boil the chicken and sweet breads and when cold cut up as for 
salad. 

In sauce pan put 1 quart of cream; in another 4 tablespoonsful 
butter and 5 even ones of flour; stir well until melted then pour 
in the hot cream and stir until thickens; flavor with a small grated 
onion and a little nutmeg, black and red pepper and salt. Put the 
chicken, mushrooms, sweet breads and cream together in a baking 
dish, cover with bread crumbs and pieces of butter and bake 20 
minutes. Will serve about 20. 

Miss Simonds. 



Smothered Chicken. 

Dress and salt, roll in flour, have ready a roaster or pan that 
can be covered ; put in meat fryings, then lay chicken in with bits 
of butter over it. Keep a little water over it, just enough to keep 
it from getting dry; then cover and smother for II/2 hours. For 
the ones that like onions, slice a small onion very thin and lay in 
with chicken. 

Mrs. G. B. Camp. 



CHICKEN 43 



Chicken Mousse. 

Scald 1 cupful milk or strong chicken stock; add this to the 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs and add also a teaspoonful of salt and a 
teaspoonful of celery salt and a dash of paprika. Cook this as a 
boiled custard. Remove from the fire and add 1/4 of a package of 
gelatine, which has been softened in i/4 of a cupful chicken stock. 
Stir into this i/o cupful cooked chicken, chopped and pounded in 
a mortar. Stir over ice water until the mixture is perfectly smooth 
and begins to set, then fold into it 1 cupful whipped cream. Turn 
into small cups and place upon ice until thoroughly moulded. Turn 
out on a slice of chilled tomato resting upon a lettuce leaf. Garnish 
both the tomato and the mousse with mayonnaise dressing. 

Anna Harrison Nelson. 



Chicken on Toast. 

Chop cold chicken fine ; season with salt, pepper, mustard and 
small piece of butter, a little milk and just enough water to cover. 
Let simmer 15 minutes. 

Serve on toast. 

Madge A. Goudy. 



Spanish Chicken. 

Into a covered baker put Yo cup olive oil. Cut chicken as for 
frying, roll in flour and brown in oil. Remove chicken, thicken 
oil with two tablespoonsful flour and let it brown. Then stir one 
large can of strained tomatoes. Put through grinder three medium 
sized onions and six dried red peppers. Add to mixture two sections 
of garlic and 1 pt. green olives. Add chicken, cover tight and cook 
slowly in oven until chicken is tender. 

Ethel M. Aldrich. 



44 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

EGGS AND OMELETS 

Cheese Fondue. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

1 cupful milk or cream. 1 cupful grated cheese. 

1 small teaspoonful salt. Pinch of pepper. 

4 eggs. 

Put the butter and flour into a sauce pan and stir until they 
bubble. Add the milk or cream. When smooth stir in the cheese, 
salt and pepper; remove from the fire and stir in the eggs, yolks 
and whites beaten separately. Butter a granite or earthen dish ; 
bake about fifteen minutes and serve at once. 

Esther Peers. 



Chinese Rabbit, 

1 cupful boiled or steamed rice. 1 cupful grated or shaved cheese. 
3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. Sauce. 

Saute the rice in a little butter; add the milk and cheese and 
cook slowly until cheese is melted. Add the beaten eggs and Wor- 
cestershire sauce and cook sloAvly until thickened. Serve on toast. 
The cheese may be omitted, making a simpler dish. 

A most excellent and nutritious dish for luncheon. 

Bertha C. Hyde. 

Cheese Balls. 
Chop half a pound of good American cheese. Add to it one 
pint of soft bread crumbs, a dash of pepper, a teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix, and add two eggs, unbeaten. Form into balls the size of an 
English walnut. Dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs, and fry in 
smoking hot fat. 

Mrs. Emery Stanley. 

Omelet. 

6 eggs beaten separately. 1 pinch salt. 

1 cupful fine bread crumbs. 1 pinch baking powder. 

1 cupful milk. 

Beat together and add beaten whites last. Fry in one skillet 
and turn into another. 

Mabel F. R. Adams. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 45 



Perfection Omelet. 

6 eggs. l^ pint milk, 

6 teaspoonfuls cornstarch. 1 pinch salt. 

] tablespoonful baking powder. 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of the eggs. Mix the corn- 
starch and baking powder. To the milk add the yolks of eggs and 
cornstarch with the salt. Lastly add the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. Cook in a buttered baking dish i/o hour in a tireless cooker. 

Martha Whittemore. 



"My Favorite Omelet." 

6 eggs. 1 cupful cold milk. 

1 tablespoonful butter. % teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

Put the butter in a granite sauce pan, and when it melts, add 
the flour. Mix well, then add the cold milk and stir until smooth. 
Set aside to cool. Add salt. Separate the eggs, beating yolks until 
very light and whites until very stiff. Fold first the yolks, then 
the whites into the sauce very carefully. Then put all into a gran- 
ite baking dish and bake in moderate oven 15 minutes. Serve im- 
mediately in the dish in which it was baked. 

Hazel G. Worley. 



Omelet. 

5 eggs. Separate whites from yolks and 

5 large mixing spoonfuls milk. beat to a stiff froth. 

Salt to taste. Mix yolks, salt and milk. 

Mix this and the beaten whites folding over lightly. 

Pour into a well buttered spider, which is hot, and cover with a 
hot cover. When done loosen with a knife run around the edge and 
roll out upon a platter. 

Ground meat may be added if desired. 

Mrs. Markham. 



46 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Omelet for One. 

1 egg, beaten separately. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful milk. Speck of salt. 

Separate the egg and beat the white stifif. Add the milk to the 
slightly beaten egg yolk and fold in the white. Have the butter 
slightly browning in an omelet pan; pour in the mixture and allow 
it to become brown and putfy. Set in the oven to stiffen, or cover 
the pan with a lid, fold over, using the spatula knife and serve at 
once. 

This is just enough for one person. 

Emma Crabb. 



Baked Eggs. 

Grease muffin tins. Put a layer of bread crumbs on bottom, then 
break desired number of eggs, salt and sprinkle with more crumbs 
and cheese and lastly place pieces of butter on top. Bake until 
slightly brown and the eggs are set. 

Mrs. S. J. Butts. 



Creamed Eggs On Toast. 

Boil hard the eggs. Cool, peel and cut lengthwise in halves. 
Toast slices of bread ; butter and place on platter. Put the eggs 
on the toast, make a white sauce and pour over and serve hot. 

Mrs. Cowgill. 



Goldenrod Eggs. 

2 hard boiled eggs. 4 slices toast. 

2 cups white sauce. 

Prepare white sauce, add white of eggs chopped fine and pour 
over toast. Rub yolks through sieve and use as a garnish on top 
of sauce. Serve hot. 



White Sauce. 
2 cups milk. 2 tablespoons flour. 

2 tablespoons butter. 1 level teaspoon salt. 

Scald milk in double boiler. Rub butter, flour and salt to paste 
and stir into hot milk. Cook twenty minutes. 

Susan Dick. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 47 



A Nice Way to Cook Eggs. 

Beat as many eggs as required, whites and yolks together, until 
creamy. Add 1 spoonful of cream or rich milk for each egg. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt. Place in custard cups and bake in pan of 
water. Turn out and surround with macaroni, cooked either with 
tomatoes or cream and cheese. Creamed chipped beef or codfish 
is also nice served around the eggs. This makes a decorative and 
tasty dish and a change in the every day way of cooking eggs. 

Miss A. L. Waite. 



Poached Eggs. 
Drop perfect eggs in a sufficient amount of boiling water to 
cover, do not allow them to boil ; but let them steam until the white 
is jellj'-like and the yolk entirely covered. Serve on toast. 

Helen Beasley. 



Eggs au Gratin. 

Arrange dropped (poached) eggs on a shallow buttered dish. 
Sprinkle with grated cheese, cover each egg with cream gravy, then 
cover with bread crumbs and sprinkle with grated cheese. Brown 
in oven. 

Mrs. M. S. Harrington. 



48 BEVERAGES 



BEVERAGES 

11/2 doz. oranges. 1 can grated pineapple. 

IM; doz. lemons. 1 box strawberries. 

Make 25 cents worth of sugar into a syrup. Extract juice 
and boil rinds of oranges, and add water they were boiled in to 
the juice. Add juice of lemons, also the fruit. Sweeten with the 
syrup; then add water enough to make 3 gal. 

Mrs. Wellhouse. 



Fruit Punch. 
Make a quart of strong tea as a foundation. Strain and let 
cool. Add the juice of six oranges and six lemons, one quart can 
of pineapples, one quart can of strawberries, and one gallon of 
water. Sweeten to taste, as the amount of sugar depends on the 
acidity of the juices. 

Mrs. E. C. Wise. 



How to Make Good Coffee. 

To each cupful of cold water, add 1 teaspoonful of coffee. TheH 
let it come to a boil and remove from fire, 

Mrs. S. A. Crane, 



Iced Lemonade. 

1 pound sugar. Juice of 4 lemons, 

1 quart of water. 

Stir the sugar and water together, add the lemon juice, and 
freeze to the consistency of soft snow. Serve in lemonade glasses, 

Dorothy Bradbury. 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



©antral Congregational CUjnrcIf 






December 11, 1888 



-•*'^ October 24, 1909 




25tl| ^nnt6«r0arg |Vf» 




Central congregational church cook book 





Division No. 3. 




Chairman, 


Mi-s. C. B. Van Horn. 


Mrs, 


M. C. Aekerman. 


Mrs. Francis Lyman. 


Mrs. 


Edwin Austin. 


Mrs. D. L. McEachron. 


Mrs. 


Ohas. Bennett. 


Mrs. H. L. Markham. 


Mrs. 


S. J. Butts. 


Miss Luella Miller. 


Mrs. 


Edwin Brookins. 


Miss Martha Moyer. 


Mrs. 


Lucia 0. Case. 


Mrs. C. H. Nettles. 


Mrs. 


A. G. Clark. 


Mrs. Edward Parsons. 


Mrs. 


J. E. Cope. 


Mrs. Emma Pontious. 


Mrs. 


Mary E. Cravens. 


Mrs. Wm. Eiekenbacker. 


Mrs. 


Albert Darling. 


Mrs. Ada Russell. 


Miss Gertrude Dick. 


Mrs. E. D. Schoen'berger, 


Mrs. 


Lutie Embleton. 


Mrs. C. M. Sheldon. 


Mrs. 


J. J. Fuller. 


Mrs. W. A. Sloo. 


Mrs. 


A. A. Goddard. 


Miss Thora Spaulding. 


Mrs. 


E. L. Gertz. 


Mrs. H. L. Strohm. 


Mrs. 


Geo. Grice. 


Mrs. Emery Trull. 


Mrs. 


D. C. HarTjough. 


Mrs. C. L. Traver. 


Mrs. 


Minnie B. Hathaway. 


Mrs. Frank Warren. 


Mrs. 


Harry Hobson. 


Mrs. H. H. Welty. 


Mrs. 


C. L. Hughes. 


Mrs. Louisa Watson. 


Mrs. 


Carrie Johnson. 


Mrs. Alice Wheeler. 


Mrs. 


L. J. Kenney. 


Mrs. L. D. Whittemore. 


Mrs. 


Edgar Langstaff. 


Mrs. Anna Wood. 


Mrs. 


Aline Loper. 





< 

XJl 

o 

p 

CO 





o 
o 
P5 

o 
o 

X 
o 
oi 

K 
o 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



The Central Congregational Church 

Grew out of a colony from the First Congregational Church of 
Topeka. Fifty-four members voluntarily withdrew from the First 
Church to form the Central Church, which was formally recog- 
nized by the Church Council December 11, 1888. 

By unanimous vote the Rev. Charles M. Sheldon was called 
December 8, 1888, to serve as pastor for one year. At the first 
annual meeting of the church Mr. Sheldon was called to be per- 
manent pastor. Preaching services were first held in a hall near 
the corner of Huntoon and Lincoln streets, until June 23, 1889, 
when the first church building, erected at the corner of Huntoon 
and Buchanan streets, was occupied. 

The Bowman Memorial Addition, the gift of Mrs. Eliza W. 
Bowman, in memory of her husband, Mr. T. B. Bowman, was 
dedicated November 21, 1897. 

The church was remodeled and rededicated October 24, 1909. 

Dr. Sheldon resigned as pastor of the church at the annual 
meeting in January, 1912, to go into effect June 1. On March 28 
Rev. Roy B. Guild was unanimously called to be pastor. The 
first day of his ministry, Sunday, June 2, was the last day of Dr. 
Sheldon's, thus uniting the two pastorates, Dr. Sheldon to con- 
tinue in the honorary position of minister-at-large. 

On December 11, 1913. the church celebrated its Twenty-fifth 
Anniversary with appropriate ceremonies, the membership hav- 
ing grown from 54 to over 850. 



Correct Way to Set a Table 



Laying a Cover 

The space, never less than twenty inches, and the necessary 
silver, glass and china for each guest, makes up a cover. 

The silver should be placed one-half inch from, and at right 
angles to, the edge of the table. 

Knives, forks and spoons are placed in order of their use, 
those first used on the outside, except the dinner knife and fork, 
mark the cover. 

Knives at right, with cutting edge inward. 

Spoons at the right of knives. Forks are placed at the left. 

Butter-spreader in front of plate or on bread-butter plate. 

If much silver is used, that for the salad and dessert courses 
may be placed on the serving dishes or placed at the covers before 
each course. 

The Glass 

Place at the tip of the knife, or to the right. 

The Kutter Plate, or Bread-aml-Kutter Plate 

Usually omitted at formal dinners. When used is placed at 
the tip of the fork. 

The Napkin 

May be placed at the left of the plate with loose edges parallel 
to the edge of table, and to the forks. On the service plate. 

The Service Plate 

Used on formal occasions, is a large plate plate placed at each 
cover, on which the oyster and soup plates are set. Later it is 
exchanged for the plate on which the first hot course is served. 

Sal* and Peppers 

One pair should be allowed for each two covers. Otherwise 
place them at the corners. 

Place Cards 

If used, are placed on the napkins. 

Chairs 

Should be placed so that the front edge of the chair touches 
the edge of the cloth. 



VEGETABLES 49 



VEGETABLES 

Chili. 

2^ lbs. round steak. 5 large Japanese peppers. 

1 cupful chopped suet. Garlic, about 1 inch in diameter. 

2 cans solid packed tomatoes. 1 teaspoonful camena seed. 
5 large chili peppers. 

Fry out the suet and put in steak ground fine; cook it through, 
but do not brown it. Strain tomatoes and add to the steak; salt 
well and let it simmer. Have the peppers cleaned of seeds and 
thoroughly dried in a warm oven, with the camena seed, and ground 
as fine as can be, which add to the steak and tomatoes; chop the 
garlic fine and add to the steak. Mix 2 or 3 tablspoonfuls of flour 
with a little water and add to the steak and tomatoes to make a 
stiff paste; set this aside in an earthen jar and keep cool and it is 
ready to serve at any time. 

Have chili pink beans cooked tender; salted and set aside. To 
serve, for each plate take 1 tablespoonful of beans, 1 of paste and 
% cupful of water and heat. One can vary the amount of beans, 
paste and water to suit the taste. 

Maud Spaulding. 



Rice Pillau. 

Take % cupful of rice to 2 level tablespoonfuls of butter. Cook 
the rice in the butter for 10 minutes ; then add water or beef or 
chicken broth and cook until the kernels are soft in a double boiler. 

Mary White Maynard, 

Bitlis, Turkey. 



Stuffed Peppers. 
Cut a slice from stem end of each pepper; remove seeds and 
parboil peppers 15 minutes. Pare and mince 3 large ripe tomatoes ; 
add 1 cupful stale bread crumbs, 1 cupful cold minced chicken or 
ham, 1 small onion finely chopped, and salt to taste. If mixture 
is too stiff add a little water. This should fill 6 large peppers. 
Place peppers in pan of water and bake 15 minutes. 

Anna M. O'Meara. 



50 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Phy Laph. — A Southern Dish. 
Wash I cupful of rice. Put in a vessel a small piece of butter, 
heat it until it begins to brown; put in the rice and stir until it 
browns evenly. Add 1 qt. of tomatoes and cook slowly until the 
rice begins to swell, then add a little paprika or a piece of red pep- 
per, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 small onion cut fine, 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, 1 tablespoonful of sugar iind if desired a cupful of chopped 
meat of any kind to suit the taste. Cook slowly and add water if 
needed to bring the rice out perfectly about 1 hour. Other season- 
ing can be used. 

Mrs. E. B. Merriam. 



Okra Sauted. 

Place in a granite sauce pan 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, a medium 
sized onion, a medium sized green pepper, both minced fine, and stir 
over the fire until a golden brown ; then add 3 large tomatoes, peeled 
and cut into pieces, 3 tablespoonfuls of Spanish or some other pepper 
sauce ; salt to taste and add 1 quart of young tender okra cut in 
slices. Cover the sauce pan and simmer gently for Vo hour. Turn 
out on a hot dish and serve. 

Mary E. Grubbs. 



Potatoes Au Gratin. 

1 pt. cold boiled potatoes cut in dice. Make cream sauce with 2 
level tablespoonfuls butter, 2 level tablespoonfuls flour and 1 cupful 
milk and salt and pepper. Add 14 to % cupful of yellow cheese, 
grated, and stir over hot water until cheese is dissolved. Put al- 
ternate layers of potatoes and sauce in baking dish and cover the 
top layer of sauce with buttered bread crumbs. Brown in quick 
oven. 

Mrs. Beasley. 



Baked Cabbag^e. 

Boil a firm white cabbage 15 minutes ; change the water and 
continue boiling until tender; strain and set aside until cold; then 
chop fine, add 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
cream, pepper and salt. Stir all together and bake in a buttered 
dish until brown. 

Mrs. J. B. Steele. 



VEGETABLES 51 



Asparagus on Toast with Butter Sauce. 
Place asparagus in a pan of boiling water with some salt and a 
tiny bit of soda. While it is cooking toast desired amount of bread 
and prepare the following : 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 1 cupful of hot milk. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. Salt and pepper. 

Cook until smooth and creamy. When asparagus is done dip 
toast in boiling water ; place on hot dish and arrange asparagus over 
it and pour over sauce. Serve at once. 

Lulu McKee. 



To Cook String Beans. 
1 quart beans thoroughly washed and broken in short pieces. 
Put in sauce pan piece of butter the size of an egg. Heat very hot ; 
pour in beans; sprinkle with salt and cover down very tightly. 
Watch carefully, adding a very little water now and then to keep 
from burning. When very tender, add 2 cupf uls of cream or milk ; 
let come to a boil and set on back of the stove to keep hot until 
time to serve. Beans will cook in this way in half the time usually 
required, and have a more delicate flavor than when cooked with 
meat. 

Miss A. L. Waite. 



Caulifower a la Parmesan. 
Place hot cooked cauliflower in a baking dish. Pour over it 1 
cupful of cream sauce. Then sprinkle grated cheese and bread 
crumbs over the top. Place in the oven till the bread crumbs are 
browned and the cheese melted. 

Ruth Kaster. 



Egg Baked in Tomato. 

Cut a slice from the stem end of tomatoes. Scrape out pulp and 
slip egg into the cavity; sprinkle with salt and pepper ;replace cover; 
place in ramekin and bake until egg is firm. 

Anna Main. 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Scalloped Cabbage. 

Cut one-half medium-sized cabbage into small pieces, and boil 
in uncovered kettle until tender, changing water frequently. Drain, 
and add white sauce. Place in baking dish, and cover with buttered 
bread crumbs. Brown in moderate oven. 

White sauce for the above : 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. IMi cups milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. Salt to taste. 

Melt butter, add flour and salt, mix thoroughly, then add all the 
milk at once. Place on fire, stirring constantly. Cook until thick 
and smooth. 

Helen Ruth Coe. 



Stuffed Tomaties. 
Have ready buttered a small granite or aluminum pan. Scoop 
the centers from eight medium sized tomatoes into a chopping bowl, 
add any remnants of cold meat, enough to fill a teacup when chopped. 
Chicken and ham make the most delicious combination — but any 
meat will do, only you must have a little bit of ham for flavor. 
Chop with the tomato. Make about a quart of sauce, the founda- 
tion may be part water with the addition of any kind of stock. 
Thicken and flavor carefully (everything depends on the care you 
exercise in making your sauce) with "Kitchen Bouquet" salt and 
pepper. In the spring the addition of a few cooked string beans 
or asparagus tips, carefully softened and mixed with the sauce, is 
a great improvement. While this is on the stove add the contents 
of chopping bowl, cook a few moments, then fill the tomatoes al- 
ready placed in the buttered pan, and pour the rest of the sauce 
around them. Cook about half an hour in a slow oven, or on the 
top of the stove fifteen minutes by covering and watching care- 
fully to avoid burning. Bread crumbs may be placed on the top 
nnd the Avhole browned. This makes a very satisfactory meat 
course for a family of six. 

Mrs. Ralph H. Gaw. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Stuff tomatoes with shredded salmon and bread crumbs well 
seasoned and bake. 

Eleanor E. Hand. 



VEGETABLES 53 



Corn Oysters. 

1 can corn. Salt and pepper to taste. 

2 eggs. 

Beat eggs and mix with corn; add seasoning; drop by spoonfuls 
on slightly greased griddle and bake until brown. 

Edna McCray. 



Corn Chowder. 

Four medium sized potatoes, peeled and diced and boil until 
done with 1 onion. Leave about 1 pt. of water on potatoes. While 
they are cooking fry 4 or 5 slices of smoked bacon. Add meat and 
bacon grease to the potatoes, also 1 can of corn and season with salt 
and pepper. Let the corn heat through and serve hot. 

Mildred Joss. 



Scalloped Egg Plant. 
Peel a large sized egg plant and cut into slices. Cook in boiling 
salted wated until tender — at least half an hour. Drain off the 
liquid, place in a bowl, add three large teaspoonfuls of butter, salt 
and pepper; beat with a spoon till all is a smooth paste. Have 
ready a buttered granite pan and bread crumbs, proceed as for 
scalloped oysters, a layer of crumbs, a thin layer of egg plant, sea- 
soning and repeat until all the egg plant is used. Pour over a cup 
or more — according to the amount of scallop now prepared, o£ good 
stock. Bake slowly half an hour, then brown top. Makes enough 
for six, and if carefully prepared is aai almost perfect substitute 
for scalloped oysters. 

Gladys Gaw. 



Sweet Potato Pone. 

4 cups hot mashed sweet potato. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 

1 cup of milk. 1 orange, juice and rind. (You 

^ cup of rich sweet cream or can use a lemon instead by 

1/2 cup butter. adding more sugar. 

1 scant cup granulated sugar. i/i teaspoonful salt. 

Beat all together hard and until perfectly mixed. Place in but- 
tered pudding dish and bake slowly one hour. 

Frances Gaw. 



54 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Corn Fritters. 

11/2 pints buttermilk. l^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 cupful cooked rice, or iy2 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder in 

cans corn. flour enough to make a stiff 

2 eggs. batter. 
iy2 teaspoonfuls soda. 

Drop by spoonfuls in hot fat and fry. 

Mrs. A. C. MeCray. 



Corn Fritters. 

1 can of sweet corn. 1 cupful sweet milk. 

10 tablespoonfuls flour. 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of baking pow- 1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
der. Salt to taste. 

Stir smooth and fry in hot lard by the spoonful. 

Louise Burt. 



Stuffed Onions. 

8 Spanish onions. Tliird cupful melted butter. 

1 cupful bread crumbs. 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley. 

1/2 teaspoonful salt. 1 beaten egg or 2 yolks. 

1 cupful nuts. 1 cupful white sauce (2 to 1). 

Speck of pepper. 

Peel onions and let cook in boiling water about an hour. Re- 
move and when cool, remove center, leaving outside layer intact. 
Chop the portion removed and the nuts fine ; mix with bread crumbs, 
butter, salt, pepper, parsley and egg. Sprinkle inside of case with 
salt and fill with mixture. Set in souffle dish and bake i/i hour; 
basting often Avith butter. Serve with cream sauce. 

Nealie Harbaugh Stoltz. 



Pie Crust. 
1 cupful flour. Small pinch of baking powder. 

1 heaping tablespoonful lard. Moisten with water. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Crust enough for 1 pie. This never fails. 

Mrs. Charles Adams. 



VEGETABLES 55 



Spaghetti. 

1 lb. round steak. Grind — 

Small piece of suet. Add — 

1 good sized onion. 1 can of tomatoes 

1 good sized carrot. Salt and pepper. 

Boil slowly one and one-half hours. Cook one package of spag- 
hetti in salt water, drain and mix. Cheese if desired. 

Elizabeth F. Rees. 



Casserole of Rice and Meat. 

1 cupful ric. Few drops onion juice. 

2 eupfuls cooked meat. 1 teaspoonful chopped green 
14 cupful crumbs. peppers. 

1 eggs. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 

1 teaspoonful salt. About V^ cupful tomato juice, 

^ teaspoonful pepper. sauce, stock or water to 

Spect of cayenne pepper. moisten. 

^ teaspoonful celery salt. 

Cook rice, chop meat fine and add all other ingredients, mixing 
well. Line a casserole with rice 1 inch thick and fill the the center 
with the meat mixture. Cover well with rice. Steam or bake from 

3 Oto 45 min. Serve hot with tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Make a 2 to 1 sauce, using for liquid 14 strained tomato juice 
and 1/2 hot water. Season well. 

Ruth Harbaugh. 



Potato Puff. 

Take 2 eupfuls of cold mashed potato and stir into it 2 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, beating to white cream before adding 
anything else; then put with this 2 eggs whipped very light and a 
teacup of cream or milk, salting to taste. Beat all well, pour into a 
deep dish and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. If puop- 
erly mixed it will come out of oven light and puffy. 

Elsie Burt. 



56 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Baked Beans with Tomatoes. 
1 qt. navy beans, soaked over % lb. can beef. 

night. 1 large onion. 

1 qt. tomatoes. Salt, pepper and a small amount 

y^ lb. salt pork. of syrup or molasses. 

^ lb. pork chops. 

Boil beans until skin crocks, pour off water, strain tomatoes. 
Put in bean pot or baking dish % the beans; then add meats with 
onion in center (leave it whole and remove before serving). Sea- 
son ; pour the strained tomato with enough water to cover ; start 
to boiling; then bake in slow oven several hours. 

Mrs. J. E. Kirkpatrick. 



Potatoes. O'Brien. 
1 quart chopped cooked potatoes. 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped 
1 tablespoonful finely chopped pimento. . 

onion. Salt and pepper. 

1 tablespoonful finely chopped 
parsley. 

Melt 3 tablespoonfuls butter ; mix with potatoes and cook for 15 
minutes, stirring occasionally. 

Mrs. Traver. 



PIES 



57 



PIES 



Third teaspoonful baking powder. 
Third teaspoonful salt. 



Hot Water Pie Crust, 

Use level measures : 
1 cupful flour. 
6 tablespoonfuls lard. 
3 tablespoonfuls boiling water. 

Sift baking powder and salt with flour, then mix lard in thor- 
oughly. Stir water in and set away to cool before rolling out. No 
care has to be taken to have things cold and the crust is always 
tender and short. 

Corinne Peers. 



Crust. 

1 cupful of flour, a little salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of shortening (I 
use lard), and mix with cold water. Don't handle much after rolled 
out, pick the crust well and bake separately. After baked put in 
filling and cover with the beaten whites of eggs sweetened with 
one tablespoonful of sugar. Put in the oven to brown. 



3 bowls of meat 
5 bowls of apples 
1 
2 



Mince Meat. 

2 tablespoonfuls each of cinna- 
mon, nutmeg and cloves. 
1 tablespoonful each of salt and 
black pepper, 
lemons, grate in the outside and 

squeeze in juice. 
; lb. citron cut very thin. 



bowl of molasses, 
bowls of vinegar, slightly re- 
duced if very strong. 

1 bowl of suet or butter. 

2 bowls of raisins. 
5 bowls of sugar. 

Add all but meat and spices and boil until raisins are tender, 
then add spices and meat. If suet is used scald it. This makes a 
large quantity, but it is very nice and keeps well. Fruit juice adds 
to the flavor. 

Mrs. G. M. Blair. 



58 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Lemon Pie Filling. 

1 lemon. 1 cupful of hot water. 

1 cupful of sugar. 2 heaping tablespoonfuls flour. 

2 eggs. A small piece of butter. 

Mix the grated rind and juice of lemon, sugar and flour to- 
gether. Add the yolks of eggs beaten, butter and hot water. Put 
in a double boiler and cook until it thickens. 

Mrs. S. C. Kersey. 



Lemon Pie. 

Mix together 1 heaping tablespoonful flour with % cupful of 
sugar, gradually stir into this mixture 1 cupful water. Beat yolk 
of 1 egg in a cup, then add water until cup is full. Stir all together, 
add a pinch of salt and boil for several minutes, stirring all the 
time. Add juice of 1 lemon just as you take it from the fire. Fill 
the baked crust with this filling, which should be rather thin, and 
frost with a meringue made of the white of the egg and sugar. 
Season meringue slightly with lemon extract. 

Elma A. Burkett. 



Chocolate Pie. 

2 tablespoonfuls of grated 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

chocolate. 1 cupful of sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 2 eggs 

y^ teaspoonful of salt. 2 pints water. 

Mix flour, sugar and chocolate together, then add the water with 
the other ingredients. Boil until thick. Save whites of eggs for 
frosting. 

Jessie M. Smith. 



Chocolate Pie. 

1 cupful of milk. 4 eggs. 

1 cupful of sugar. V2 square of chocolate. 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Mix and cook in a custard kettle until thick. Line 2 pie tins 
with crust and when baked fill with the custard, add the beaten 
whites of eggs, sweeten to taste and spread on top of pies. Put in 
the oven until a golden brown. 

Mrs. Clark Berry. 



PIES 59 

Denver Exposition Pumpkin Pie. 

1 pt. stewed pumpkin. 2 cupfuls sugar. 

3 eggs beaten separately. 1 pt. of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

11/2 teaspoonfuls of ginger. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 14 of grated nutmeg. 

Add whites of egg, well beaten the last thing. This makes 2 
pies. 

Mrs. Kate Ott. 



Caramel Pie. 

Put two-thirds of a cupful of brown sugar and 1 tablespoonful 
of butter on back of stove, or on a slow gas burner over asbestos 
mat. Mix yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch and II/2 cup- 
fuls milk and pour into sugar and butter when melted. Cook until 
it thickens and then pour into a baked crust and frost with whites 
of eggs. 

Anna Heartburg. 



Caramel Pie. 

2 cupfuls of milk. II/2 cupfuls of butter. 

IVij cupfuls of sugar. 5 eggs, 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Brown half of the sugar, have milk hot and stir in the browned 
sugar. Add the butter and flour, beaten yolks of eggs and the re- 
mainder of sugar. Cook until thick. Use whites of eggs for mer- 
ingue. This makes 2 pies. 

Mrs. M. A. Sargent. 



r. 

Sour Cream Pie. 

1 cupful of sour cream. y^ cupful of chopped raisins. 

1 cupful of sugar. 14 teaspoonful ofcloves. 

3 eggs (leaving out whites of 2). % teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Bake with an under crust only. Beat the whites of eggs and add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread over the top of the pie and 
return to the oven to brown. 

Mrs. J. P. Clawsey. 



60 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Cream Pie. 

1 pint new milk. Folks of 2 eggs. 

% cupful sugar. Pinch of salt. 

1 heaping tablespoonful corn- 1 teaspoonful lemon extract, 
starch. 
Mix cornstarch in a little cold milk; add sugar, salt and beaten 
egg. Put the remainder of milk in stove and when boiling hot stir 
in the other ingredients and boil together until it thickens. Add the 
flavor after taking from the stove. Have 2 crusts baked and put in 
the cream as soon as it is done. 



Frosting. 

Beat whites of 2 eggs, add tablespoonful of sugar, spread on pie 
and brown in oven 2 or 3 minutes. 

Mrs. Martha A. Collins. 



Cream Pie. 

1 pt. of milk. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 1 egg and yolk of another. 

Beat eggs, sugar and flour together. Let milk get boiling hot, 
then pour in the beaten parts and stir until thick. When partly cool 
flavor as you wish, pour in a baked crust and spread the beaten 
white on top and brown. 

Mrs. J. N. Porter. 



Custard Pie. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful of flour. 

1/2 cupful of sugar. Nutmeg and vanilla to taste. 

1 pt. of milk. 

Dissolve flour in a little cold milk; add to the heated milk and 
stir until it thickens. Add sugar and eggs thoroughly whipped and 
stir into the milk. Pour the mixture into a deep shell and bake 
slowly until the custard can be cut with a silver knife. The stifi'ly 
beaten whites of 2 eggs sweetened with 1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Spread over the top and brown in the oven, 

Mrs. J. R. Sargent. 



PIES 61 

Cream Filling. 

For pie or puffs. 

1 pt. milk. 1 tablespoonful corn starch dis- 

2 eggs. solved in a little water. 
V2 cupful sugar. 

Place milk in double boiler, add sugar; when it reaches boiling 
point add cornstarch. Cook until clear, add beaten eggs ; stir a 
few minutes and remove from fire. 

Annie Laurie McKee. 



Grape Pie. 

1 full cup of grapes seeded. 1 heaping tablespoonful flour. 

1 egg well beaten. A small piece of butter. 

1 cupful sugar. 

Mix like cake batter and add grapes last and bake with two 
crusts. 

Mrs. H. H. Welty. 



Cocoanut Pie. 

Yolks of 3 eggs and white of 1, beaten with 1 cupful sugar. Mix 
1 tablespoonful of flour with a little water and add to beaten eggs 
and sugar. Add % cupful of cocoanut (grated) and 1 large cup- 
ful of boiling water and boil thoroughly. Put this in a previously 
baked pie shell. Beat the whites of 2 eggs and add to them 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls cocoanut. Spread on top of 
pie and brown in the oven. Serve cold. 

E. V. Godard. 



Quick Cream Cookies. 

1 cupful sour cream. 1 level teaspoonful soda. 

1 cupful sugar. 1 level teaspoonful salt. 

1 egg. Flavoring. 

21/4 cupfuls flour. 

Drop with teaspoon on well buttered pans, pat down and sprinkle 
sugar on each. Also half nut meat on each. 

Allison B. Shaver. 



62 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Mock Cherry Pie. 
2 cups of cranberries, chopped. 1 cup of water. 

1 cup of raisins, chopped. 2 tablespoons of Hour. 

2 cups of sugar. 2 teaspoons of vanilla. 

Stir all together and bake in short crusts. Will make two pies. 

Viola Brehm. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



63 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



Coffee 

1 cupful New Orleans molasses. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1/2 cupful lard. 

1/2 cupful coffee or water. 

1 level teaspoonful ginger. 

Cream lard and sugar. Add 
baking powder into flour. Stir 
the batter, alternating flour and 
out; bake in quick oven. 



Cookies. 

2 level teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 

1 level tablesponful soda. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

molasses and spices and salt. Sift 
soda into the coffee, and add to 
water. Add sufficient flour to roll 

Mrs. P. B. Lee. 



Nut Cookies. 

11/^ cupfuls sugar. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1/2 cupful of butter. 1 coffee cupful of seedless 

2 eggs. raisins, chopped. 

% cupful of boiling water. ] coffee cupful of English 

3 cupfuls flour, sifted with 1 walnuts, chopped. 

teaspoonful of soda. 

Drop on buttered pans by the teaspoonfuls, about an inch apart. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Grant. 



1 cupful brown sugar. 
V2 cupful butter. 

2 eggs. 

2 cupfuls oatflake. 
11/2 cupfuls flour. 



Oatmeal Cookies. 

6 tablespoonfuls milk or more. 

1/2 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup raisins and nuts if desired. 



Drop small spoonfuls of thick batter in buttered pans and bake 
slowly. 

Mrs. A. E. True. 



64 



CENTRAL, CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Ginger Cookies. 



1 cupful New Orleans molasses. 

1 cupful sugar. 

2 eggs. 

1 cupful butter (scant). 



1 tablespoonful ginger. 
1 tablespoonful soda dissolved 
in 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 
6 cupfuls flour. 

Winifred Traver. 



1 cupful molasses. 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful lard or butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls soda. 
1 cup hot w^ater. 



Cookies. 

2 teaspoonfuls soda. 
1 cup hot water. 
1 egg. 

1 teaspoonful ginger, cinnamon 
and cloves. 

Mrs. W. S. Glover. 



Rocks. 

1% cupfuls brown sugar. 1 cupful nuts chopped. 

1 cupful butter. Pinch of salt. 

3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

iy2 cupfuls chopped raisins 1% teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

dusted with flour. 2i/2 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful milk. 

Drop teaspoonful on greased pan. Bake in moderate oven. 

May Reynolds. 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 

Whites of 3 eggs beaten very 2 large tablespoonfuls flour. 

stiff. 1 ten cent package of cocoanut. 

1 cupful granulated sugar. 

Stir well, drop from teaspoon on bottom of well greased drip- 
ping pan. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. W. C. Loucks. 



Oraham Crackers. 
1 quart graham flour. % cupful sweet milk. 

1 teaspoon soda. Two-thirds cupful butter, or part 

11/2 cupfuls sugar. butter and part lard. 

Roll thin and bake in a hot oven. 

Florence R. White. 




13 




14 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 





Division No. 4, 


Chairmau, Mrs. H. L. Adams. 


Mrs. Geo. Beach. 


Mrs. C. S. McGuire. 


Mrs. F. 0. Boyd. 


Miss Lulu McKee. 


Mrs. W. F. Brehm. 


Mrs. A. C. Merritt. 


Mrs. Gr. B. Camp. 


Mrs. C. H. Morrison. 


Mrs. S. A. Crane. 


Mrs. E. B. Merriam. 


Miss Tauncy Capps. 


Miss Gertrude Mooney. 


Mrs. Frank Daniels. 


Mrs. J. W. Nelson. 


Mrs. M. O. Dean. 


Miss Vina Ott. 


Mrs. C. A. Ferrin. 


Mrs. Frank Phipps. 


Mrs. Walter Glover. 


Mrs. G. G. Reinger. 


Mrs. Daniel Greenstreet. 


Mrs. D. C. Romine. 


Mrs. Linden Day. 


Mrs. Arthur Schapley. 


Mrs. A. S. Goudy. 


Mrs. Noble Prentis. 


Mrs. M. F. Hand. 


Mrs. R. A. Shankle. 


Miss Mary Harriison. 


Mrs. Ella Sirois. 


Mrs. Ida Herron. 


Mrs. B. B. Smythe. 


Mrs. H. H. Hug^ins. 


Mrs. F. M. Stahl. 


Mrs. Cora Johnson. 


Mrs. Nannie Thomas. 


Mrs. C. W. Joss. 


Miss Mildred Taliaferro, 


Mrs. A. G. Kittel. 


Miss Emma Wallace. 


Mrs. J. E. Kirkpatrick. 


Mrs. Fannie Wellhouse. 


Mrs. P. B. Lee. 


Mrs. 0. H. White. 


Mrs. C. W. Lowe. 


Mrs. J. C. Wolcott. 


Miss Alice McCoy. 


, 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Division No, 


, 2. 


Chairman, 


Mrs. F. M. Spencer. 


Miss Ethel Aldrich. 


Mrs. 


A. C. McCray. 


Mrs. N. W. Baker. 


Mrs. 


W. G. Magaw. 


Mrs. C. E. Bair. 


Mrs. 


James Meyer. 


Mrs. G. M. Blair. 


Miss Elmora McKay. 


Mrs. Lottie Case. 


Miss 


Ida Moyer. 


Mrs. D. 0. Coe. 


Mrs. 


Kate Ott. 


Mrs. J. W. Crane. 


Mrs. 


H. R. Nelson. 


Mrs. J. P. Danley. 


Mrs. 


G. M. Pierce. 


Miss Susan Dick. 


Mrs. 


T. W. Reynolds. 


Mrs. P. H. Forbes. 


Mrs. 


James Robertson. 


Mrs. Etta Gilmore. 


Mrs. 


G. A. Root. 


Mrs. S. A. Greenwood. 


Mrs. 


Mary Sargent. 


Miss Hattie Halbert. 


Mrs. 


William Shaver. 


Mrs. W. A. Harshbarger. 


Mrs. 


Marie Shumate. 


Mrs. J. J. Henderson. 


Mrs. 


J. F. Simonds. 


Mrs. C. F.Hardy. 


Mrs. 


H. D. Smith. 


Mrs. Geo. T. Holyoke. 


Mrs. 


H. A. Spaulding. 


Mrs. G. B. Howe. 


Mrs. 


Jennie Steel. 


Mrs. J. E. Ing<ham. 


Mrs. 


L. W. Timberlake 


Mrs. Silas T. Joy. 


Mrs. 


Katherine Turner. 


Mrs. L. M. Jones. 


Mrs. 


Wm. Weir. 


Mrs. Rad Lee. 


Mrs. 


L. F. White. 


Mrs. J. T. Lovewell. 


Mrs. 


E. C. Wise. 


Mrs. John Lyman. 


Miss Jessie Dean. 



2 

p 

to 

H 

o 
o 

H 

to 
o 

H 

:^ 

o 

> 




CAKES AND COOKIES 65 



Children's Cup Cake. 
1 cupful sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

11/^ cupfuls flour, sifted with 

Break 2 eggs in a cup aud fill cup with milk, beat well and mix 
with first part, beat all together five minutes. This makes fifteen 
cakes, baked in gem pans. 

Mrs. W. J. Rickenbacker. 



Date Wafers. 

1 lb. dates. V2 cup water. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
11/2 cups water. a little water. 

Cook to a paste. 1 cupful butter. 

21/0 cups oatmeal. 1 cupful light brown sugar. 

21/^ cups flour. 

Cream butter and add sugar. Add soda and water; then add 
flour and oatmeal and beat thoroughly. Roll out thin and spread 
one-half with date paste. Cover with remaining dough aud cut in 
strips three inches long and one and one-half inches wide. Bake in 
a hot oven. 

Dorothy Heartburg. 

Barnacles. 

2 cupfuls raisins. % cupful sugar. 
1 lemon. 

Roll crust thin and cut with a good sized coffee can lid. Put 
one teaspoonful of filling to one side of circle. Fold other half back 
and pinch edges together well. These are excellent for lunches. 

Faye Hathaway. 

Fruit Snaps. 
1^ cupful butter. 1 cupful chopped raisins. 

11/2 cupfuls sugar. i/^ cupful chopped nut meats. 

1/2 cupful molasses. 1 teaspoonful each of soda, 

3 eggs. cinnamon, cloves and ginger. 

Stir in a scant quart of flour; make dough in balls size of wal- 
nut ; place two inches apart in pan. Do not bake too quickly. May 
add three tablespoonfuls strong coffee. 

Mrs. J. H. Johnston. 



66 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Whites of 16 eggs. 
1 lb. sugar. 
12 oz. flour. 



Brides Cake. 

8 oz. butter. 

Beat the eggs and add with flour. 

Flavor with lemon. 

Mrs. Frank Eckert. 



White Cake. 
% cupful cottolene. 1 cupful cornstarch. 

Scant 2 cupfuls sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

2 cupfuls flour. "Whites of 8 eggs. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 

Cream cottolene and sugar until it is white and frothy. Add 
corn starch, flour and baking powder together and sift thoroughly 
and add alternately with the milk. Add flavoring and whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in layers or in a loaf. 

Mrs. C. A. Sproul. 



White Fruit Cake. 

% cupful butter. 1 lb. raisins. 

11/2 cupfuls sugar. 1 lb. currants. 

3 eggs. 1 cupful mixed candied peel. 

21^ cupfuls flour. One-third of a grated nutmeg. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 1 cupful chopped walnuts. 

Vo cupful milk. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream and add beaten yolks of eggs. 
then fruit, milk, flour and baking powder. Lastly fold in stiffened 
beaten whites of eggs and bake in a moderate oven % of an hour. 

E. A. Smith. 



Plain White Cake. 

11/2 cupfuls sugar. 2 cupfuls flour. 

Two-thirds cupful butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 cupful milk. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Cream butter and sugar; add milk, then flour and ])aking powder. 
Lastly eggs well beaten, flavor. Use any filling. 

Maude Green. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 67 

White Feather Cake. 
1/4 cupful butter. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

1 cupful sugar. 1^^ cupfuls flour. 

Beaten together to a cream. ly^ teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Add beaten yolks of 2 eggs and Lastly beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
% cupful milk. 



Mix and bake. 



Mrs. H. L. Strohm. 



Angel Food Cake (Original). 

Whites of 11 large or 12 small 2 heaping tablespoonfuls corn- 
eggs, starch. 
IMi cupfuls sugar. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
Four-fifths cupful flour. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

1 pinch of salt. 
Get cake pan, two papers and all ingredients on table before 
commencing, as there should be no stopping work after beginning 
the cake. First sift sugar 5 times and put it in a dish, then sift 
flour, cornstarch and cream of tartar 5 times, put it in the sieve. 
Take a wire spoon egg whip, and beat the eggs with salt added 
until they begin to turn white, do not beat them until stiff by any 
means. Have a lot of large bubbles in the eggs. Now sprinkle in 
sugar slowly beating rapidly while putting it in. Add vanilla and 
then add the flour from the sieve by shaking it just hard enough 
to make a show of flour on the eggs. Now instead of beating, 
gently fold in the flour by bringing the egg whip up through the 
eggs and over them, letting the whip turn in the hand. Do this just 
as slowly as you can always having a film of flour before each fold. 
This is what makes the grain of the cake. The slower the flour is 
added the better the cake, but no stop must be made. Pour in 
pan and bake in slow oven 45 to 50 minutes. Invert to cool. 

Mrs. Charles Joss. 



One "Egg Cake. 
1 egg. 2 cups flour. 

1 cupful sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 tablespoonful butter. Flavor to taste. 

Two-thirds cupful sweet milk 

Carrie B. Sherman. 



68 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

A Good Eggless Cake. 
1/2 cupful molasses. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

l^ cupful sugar. I/2 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Shortening size of an egg. V^ teaspoonful cloves. 

2 cupfuls flour. 1 cupful raisins. 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
two-thirds cup of cold coffee. 
If too thin add a little flour. 

Mrs. Edgar Langstaff. 



Mock Angel Food. 

Set one cupful of milk into a dipper of boiling water and heat 
to boiling point. Into a sifter put 1 cupful of flour (no more), 1 
cupful of sugar, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, pinch of salt; 
sift together 4 times; into this pour the cupful of boiling milk and 
stir smooth. Then put in the well beaten whites of 2 eggs. Do not 
stir or beat eggs into mixture. Fold them in carefully, drawing 
the spoon through mixture toward you, then shoving it back with 
the back of the spoon. Repeat this until the whites are evenly 
folded into batter. Do not grease tin nor flavor. Ice with sugar 
flavored with lemon or orange. 

Gertrude Dick. 



Cocoanut Cake. 

Whites of 7 eggs. 2^2 cupfuls flour. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1/4 cupful butter. 1 cupful coeoanut soaked in sweet 

1 cupful sweet milk. milk 2 hours. 

% cupful corn starch. 

Drain milk from coeoanut and use in cake. 

Mrs. L. W. Timberlake. 



Gold Cake. 

1 cupful butter. 4 eggs. 

1% cupfuls sugar. 1 level teaspoonful of baking 

V2 cupful milk. powder. 

2 cupfuls flour. Flavor to taste. 

Mrs. B. L. Seeley. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 69 



Burnt Sugar Cake. 
Beat 1/2 cupful butter to a cream. Add gradually 11/2 cupfuls 
sugar, the yolks of 2 eggs and 1 cupful water. Add 2 cupfuls flour 
and beat continuously for about 5 minutes, then add 3 teaspoonfuls 
burnt sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla and another 1/2 cupful flour. Beat 
again thoroughly and then sift in carefully 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder and the well beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in 2 layers 
in a moderately quick oven. 

Burnt Sugar Syrup. 

Put y-z cupful granulated sugar into an iron or granite sauce 
pan. Stir continuously over the fire until the sugar first softens, 
then melts and finally becomes liquid and throws off an intense 
smoke, it really must burn. Have ready V2 cupful boiling water. 
Remove the sauce-pan a moment from the fire ; throw in the water ; 
stir rapidly and allow it to boil until you have a molasses like 
syrup. Bottle and put away for use. This is sufficient for 3 cakes. 

Filling. 

11/2 cupfuls sugar. Mj cupful water. 

Place over the fire and stir until the sugar is dissolved and then 
boil quickly without stirring, until the syrup will spin a thread 
from the tine of a fork. Have ready beaten to a stiff froth the 
whites of 2 eggs, stir in gradually the boiling syrup and beat con- 
tinuously until the icing is cool, then add i/o teaspoonful vanilla 
and 2 teaspoonfuls burnt sugar. 

Jessie Guild. 



Burnt Sugar Cake. 

2V2 cupfuls flour. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

11/2 cupfuls white sugar. 1 cupful cold water. 

2 rounded teaspoonfuls baking 2 tablespoonfuls burnt sugar. 

powder. Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff. 
1/2 cupful butter. 

Make a boiled frosting in which you put 2 tablespoonfuls of 
burnt sugar. 

Burnt Sugar. 
1 cupful brown sugar. 

Stir sugar until melted into a foam. Set on back of stove and 
add 1 cupful of water, cook until a syrup. 

Mrs. Oscar Booth. 



70 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Burnt Sugar Cake. 

1^2 cups sugar. 1 cup water. 

V2 cup butter. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

21/^ cups flour. 2 level teaspoons baking powder. 

2 eggs. 3 teaspoons burnt sugar. 

Cream the sugar and butter, add yolks of the eggs, and one 
cup of water, then two cups of flour and beat five minutes. 

Add burnt sugar and vanilla and beat again, then add the bak- 
ing powder mixed in Vo cup flour still beating. Then fold in the 
whites of two eggs. Bake in very slow oven. 

Filling for Burnt Sugar Cake. 
11/2 cups sugar. 2 whites of eggs. 

1^ cup water. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

3 teaspoons burnt sugar. 

Boil until it threads. Whip whites of eggs, and pour the syrup 
over the beaten whites, beating until cool. Then add vanilla and 
burnt sugar. 

To Burn Sugar. 

Put % cup granulated sugar in a pan and stir over fire until 
sugar softens, then melts and smokes. It really must burn. Remove 
pan from fire, add i/^ cup boiling water, stir rapidly. Put over 
fire and boil until the syrup is like molasses. 

Mrs. H. M. Washburn. 



Receipt for Prize Winning Cake. 

Whites of 5 eggs. One-third cupful cottolene. 

11/2 cupfuls fine granulated 1 teaspoonful vanilla and lemon 

sugar. mixed. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 3 cupfuls Swansdown cake flour; 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. measure after sifting 5 times. 

Cream cottolene, add sugar and salt and l>eat until very light. 
Add flavoring, then two tablespoonfuls of milk and 2 of flour and 
beat until all flour and milk are used. Beat in the stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Light the gas when the cake is placed in oven. 
Rather low temperature first half of baking, with increased heat 
toward last. This receipt makes a delicious loaf or layer cake. 

Mrs. Chas. A. Kline. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 71 



Burnt Sugar Cake. 

Beat Mi cupful butter to a cream. Add gradually l^/lj cupfuls 
sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cupful water, 2 cupfuls flour. Beat for 
five minutes ; add 3 teaspoonfuls burnt sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls vanilla 
and 1/2 cupful flour. Beat again, then add 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. 

Burnt Sugfar. 

Put 1/^ cupful sugar on fire until it becomes a liquid, and throws 
off an intense smoke. Remove from fire and add i/^ cupful boiling 
water, let boil until it becomes a syrup, then bottle and use to 
flavor icing. 

Mary M. Reynolds. 



Potato Caramel Cake. 

Two-thirds cupful butter. Sift flour and baking powder to- 

2 cupfuls granulated sugar. gether three or four times 

Cream together. to mix thoroughly. 

4 eggs (whites and yolks beaten 1 cupful grated chocolate or 2 

separately). squares melted. 

I/O cupful sweet milk. 1 cupful English walnuts. 

2 cupfuls flour. 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, cin- 

2 teaspoonsful baking powder. namon and nutmeg. 

1 cupful mashel potatoes, hot, 
unseasoned. 
Bake in 2 or 3 layers and frost with boiled frosting. 

Mrs. Frank Phipps. 



Pork Cake. 

One pound of fat salt pork, every particle of lean removed, 
chopped or ground so fine as to seem like lard; one pint of boiling 
water, poured over the pork and well stirred^ one pound of raisins, 
whole or chopped, as one prefers ; one half pound of citron, finely 
sliced ; one and one-half cups of sugar ; one cup of molasses, one tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, cloves and alspice; one grated nutmeg; one 
teaspoonful of soda, and two of baking powder. Flour to make a 
stiff batter, bake in a moderate oven, till done. 

Lucia 0. Case. ' 



72 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

English Walnut Cake. 
11/2 cupfuls sugar. ^4 lb. grated chocolate. 

1 cupful fine cracker crumbs. 8 eggs. 
1/2 cupful citron. Vanilla flavoring. 

1/2 cupful English walnuts 
(chopped rather fine). 
Mix yolks and sugar very light by thorough beating; add the 
melted chocolate and other ingredients and lastly the beaten whites. 
Do not bake too long as the eggs are all there is to cook. Use 
white icing. 

Sallie Jeannie Peers. 



Sponge Cake. 

4 eggs. i-i eui)ful boiling water. 

2 cupfuls flour. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

2 cupfuls sugar. Salt. 

Rind of lemon. 

Separate egg and beat white to a stiff froth. Divide and add 
1 cupful sugar to one half. Beat yolks with other cup sugar until 
very light. Add grated rind then boiling water. Next 1 cupful 
flour with baking powder. Then add white of egg, which has been 
mixed with sugar, other cup of flour, and lastly remaining egg 
white. Bake in moderate oven 30 minutes. 

Clara Merle Beeman. 



Mexican Cake. 

Yolks of 9 eggs. 3 ounces flour. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 3 ounces corn starch. 

i/i> pound sugar. 3 ounces butter. 

Vanilla extract. 

Beat yolks, sugar and flavor together. Beat up whites of eggs 
as for icing; then add to the above batter. Add flour, starch and but- 
ter (melted). Bake in 3 layers, in a medium oven for 15 minutes. 

Icing. 

1/2 lb. butter. i{. lb. powdered sugar. 

Cook it and spread on cake while warm. This is a very fine cake. 

Mrs. E. L. Gertz. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 73 



Sultana Cake. 
1/4 lb. butter. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

14 lb. sugar. i/4 lbs. sultanas. 

3 eggs. Peel of 2 oranges. 

1/2 lb. flour. Essence of lemon. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat in eggs one at a time. Clean 
and pick the sultanas and shred the peel, mix together the flour 
and baking powder, add the flour and fruit alternately to the mix- 
ture stirring them in lightly. Add flavoring and mix well. Bake 1 
hour in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Harry Hobson. 



Orange Cake. 

% cup sugar. 1 cup flour. 

3 egg yolks. II/2 teaspoons baking powder 

1/4 cup butter. (level). 

14 cup milk. Rind of orange. 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat yolks, add rind of orange and 
some juice. Mix two together. Then add milk and flour. 

Mrs. F. E. Sherman. 



Dutch Apple Cake. 
2 eupfuls pastry flour. 5 apples pared and cut into 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. eighths. 

1/4 cupful butter. 14 cupful sugar. 

1 egg. 1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

% cupful milk. 1/4 cupful currants. 

Sift together three times the flour, salt and baking powder. 
With the tips of the fingers work the butter into the flour mixture. 
Beat the eggs, add the milk and stir into dry ingredients. Spread 
the dough in a well buttered shallow pan. Press the sharp edges 
of the pieces of apple into the dough in parallel rows ; sprinkle the 
whole with the currants, sugar and cinnamon mixed together. Bake 
in moderate oven. Serve hot with butter, as bread for supper, or 
with hard sauce as pudding. 

Mrs. E. S. Sirois. 



74 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Orange Cake. 

2 eggs beaten light. % cupful flour with 1 teaspoon- 

1 cupful sugar. ful baking powder. 

1/2 cupful sifted flour. 1 spoonful flavoring. 

1/2 cupful boiling water. 
Stir quickly. Two layers. 

Icing". 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar, 1 grated orange peel, juice enough 
to make the right thickness. 

Harriet H. Reynolds. 



General Directions for Spice Cakes. 

Use sour milk when possible. V2 teaspoonful soda for each cup- 
ful of sour milk used, for shortening use butter, drippings of lard 
half and half. 

Mixing — Blend and warm molasses, sugar and shortening. Dis- 
solve the soda and salt in a little of the milk or water. When much 
butter is used omit the salt. Sift the flour several times with the 
spices. Now beat the eggs very light and mix all together quickly. 
Get into the oven with all possible speed. Bake in sheets, loaves 
or cups. 

Mrs. Geo. C. Beach. 



Dutch Apple Pie. 

1 pint flour. % cup butter. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 scant cup milk. 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoons sugar. 4 tart apples. 

Mix dry ingredients together. Rub in the butter. Beat eggs 
light and add them to milk. Stir eggs and milk into the dry in- 
gredients. Spread the dough about one-half inch thick in a flat pan. 
Core, pare and cut the apples into eighths. Lay them on top of 
the batter thin edge down. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 
Bake about thirty minutes. Serve with cream. Good hot or cold. 

Mrs. L. D. Whittemore. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



75 





Coffee Cake. 


1 cupful coffee. 


!/> nutmeg. 


1 cupful butter. 


1/2 teaspoonful cloves. 


1 cupful sugar. 


1/2 teaspoonful cinnamon. 


1 cupful molasses. 


1 lb. raisins. 


3 cupfuls flour. 


1 tablespoon soda. 


1 egg. 






Mrs. J. C. Holman. 



German Coffee Cake. 

% cake yeast foam soaked in 1 i/o cupful sugar. Beat well, 
pint of warm potato water. 

Set over night in a warm place. In the morning add 1 pint of 
flour, beat well, keep warm until light, then add 1 cupful sugar, % 
cupful of any kind of shortening, 1 level teaspoonful of nutmeg, 
1 level tablespoonful salt and 1 or 2 eggs. Then add ^2 cupful 
seeded raisins and beat well. Add flour enough to make stiff as for 
light rolls. Keep warm till light. Roll out 1 inch thick, let rise 
in well greased pans until light, cover top with butter or cream, 
sugar and cinnamon. Bake 10 min. 

Mrs. Henrietta Rickenbacker. 



Coffee Cake. 

1 pt. lukewarm milk. 14 teaspoonful salt. 

2 cupfuls flour. 1 cake compressed yeast. 

Put flour in bowl, add salt and yeast dissolved in i/^ cupful 
warm water, beat a little, add milk, beat longer and cover bowl 
and let stand for one hour. Then add IV2 cupfuls or 2 cupfuls 
sugar, 4 eggs well beaten, 1 tablespoonful melted butter, 2 cupfuls 
seeded raisins and 4 scant cupfuls flour. Stir all well and long 
and leave to rise 4 hours or all night. Then spread the batter very 
thinly on the bottom of buttered pans, painting the tops with 
melted butter, sugar, cinnamon and finely ground nuts. Let your 
pans stand covered for 2 hours before baking l^ hour in slow oven. 

Mrs. C. B. Van Horn. 



76 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Coffee Cake (American). 



V2 cupful butter (scant) 



Salt. 

2 cupfuls tlour. 

2 rounded teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. 



1 cupful sugar. 

2 eggs (beaten together). 
1 cupful clear, cold coffee, or 

milk. 
Mix in order given and bake about % hour. 

Mrs. F. K. Sanders 



Apple Sauce Cake. 



1 cupful sugar. 

114 cupfuls apple sauce. 
1/2 cupful lard. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

% package raisins. 
V2 package currants. 



Vi nutmeg. 

% teaspoonful of different spices. 

1/4 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

% teaspoonful baking powder. 



Mrs. D. C. Harbaugh. 



Whites of 6 eggs. 
1 cupful milk. 
11/2 cupfuls sugar. 
21/^ cupfuls flour. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 



Pine Apple Cake. 

1/2 cupful butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Flavoring. 

Icing. 

1 can grated pineapple. 
Spread on cake. 

Mrs. Helena Hobson. 



Chocolate Cake. 



1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls shortening. 
1 egg. 

1 cupful sour milk or butter- 
milk. 



2 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
i/i> teaspoonful soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls cocoa or choco- 

late. 

Mrs. P. H. Forbes. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 



77 



Ginger Bread. 



1 egg. 

% cupful shortening, fill cup 
with boiling water. 

% cupful New Orleans molas- 
ses, fill with granulated 
sugar. 
Bake in slow oven. 



1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 

I/O teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 

cloves and alspice. 
About 2i/> cupfuls flour. 



Mrs. E. R. Corbin. 



Feather Gingerbread. 



Large tablespoonful butter. 
1/2 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful sorghum molasses. 
1 teaspoonful each of ginger, 
cloves and cinnamon. 



2 level teaspoonfuls of soda dis- 
solved in 1 cupful boiling 
water. 

21/) cupfuls flour. 

2 well beaten eggs. 

Mrs. A. L. Goudy. 



Gingerbread. 
1 cupful sugar. i/o cupful butter. 

1/2 cupful molasses. 

Sift together one teaspoonful each of ginger, cloves, cinnamon 
and two teaspoonfuls soda with 2% cupfuls flour. Pour 1 cupful 
of boiling water on the sugar, molasses and butter, then add dry 
ingredients, lastlj^ beat in 2 eggs and 1 cupful of chopped and 
floured raisins. 

Mrs. Frank 0. Boyd. 



Spice Cake. 



2 cupfuls sugar. 

94 cupful butter. 

1 cupful butter-milk. 

4 eggs, whites of 2 to be used 

for frosting. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 



1/2 teaspoonful cloves. 

1/2 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

A little ginger and nutmeg. 

1 cupful raisins. 
3 cupfuls flour. 

Mary C. Ackerman. 



78 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Graham Cake. 

"If any reader of the Congregational Church should like a 

graham cake, 

I give you here a recipe, which I quite often make : 

First take one cup of sugar white, and butter one-half cup, 

Together mix, then add an egg and lightly beat it up. 

Then take one cup of fine sweet milk, and well dissolve therein 

A teaspoonful of soda, so its trace cannot be seen. 

Then scatter in a little salt and flavor it with spice, 

A little nutmeg if you please or lemon peel is nice. 

And then of flour, you may put in three even teacupfuls, 

And when you've stirred it well around, then quickly pour the 

whole 

Into your buttered pan, my dear, which ready stands the while; 
Then if you give it a good bake, 'twill be so nice you'll smile." 

Mrs. H. A. Sparkling. 



Chocolate Cake. 

Two ounces of chocolate, 

And one of flour, 
One half cup of milk, 

Be careful — not sour. 
One teaspoon vanilla, 

Four eggs, fresh and new. 
One teaspoon of powder, 

Not old — strictly new. 
One cup of nice butter 

Of sugar two — white, 
Will make a cake lovely, 

A perfect delight. 

Mrs. G. G. Reiniger. 



Boiled Raisin Cake. 

This recipe is over one hundred years old. 1% cups sugar, i/o 
cup butter, cream together. 2 eggs, 3 cups flour, 3 cups raisins 
(boiled twenty minutes in uncovered vessel), and one cup of water 
the raisins were cooked in. One teaspoon nutmeg, 2 teaspoonfuls 
cinnamon, 2 teaspoons of soda (level) sifted through flour. One 
teaspoon of baking powder may be added. 

Mrs. 0. E. Hulet. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 79 



Chocolate Cream Cake. 
Cream Part. 
^1 cup grated chocolate. 
1/2 cupful sweet milk. Yolk or all of one egg. 

Beat all together, cook until like custard and set to cool. 

Cake Part. 

1 cup dark brown sugar. Y^ cup sweet milk. 
% cup butter. 2 eggs. 

2 cups sifted flour. 

Mix sugar and butter together; add the eggs, then the milk, 
and flour. After the cake part is mixed stir the cream part, then 
add 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm water. Flavor with 
vanilla if desired. Bake in layers and put together with white 
frosting made of about 1 cup of pulverized sugar moistened with 
cream, use very little cream. 

Mrs. S. S. Wilbur. 



Chocolate Loaf Cake. 

1 cup sugar. 2 squares melted chocolate. 

1/4 cup butter. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

1 egg. IVi cups flour. 

14 cup sour milk. i/4 cup English walnuts. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Beat up well and add Y2 cup of boiling water. 

Chocolate Frosting for Same. 
4 tablespoons cholocate. 1 tablespoon water. 

4 tablespoons milk. 1 spoon butter. 

4 tablespoons sugar. 
Cook until thick. 

Esther A. Huling. 

Frosting for Cake. 

2 teacupfuls powdered sugar. Break over it the white of one 
egg, stir together. If not stiff enough to spread well add a little 
more sugar. If too stiff add a teaspoonful of cream or milk. Melt 
and add chocolate to this for chocolate icing. 

Arid burnt sugar for Caramel icing. Try this and you will not 
go back to boiled icing. 



80 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



% cupful butter. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 egg. 

% cup water. 
% cupful milk. 



Brown Cake. 

2 squares melted chocolate. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
ly^ teaspooufuls baking powder. 
y-z teaspoonful baking powder. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 



11/2 cupfuls flour. 

Cream butter and sugar. Beat in egg thoroughly. Dissolve soda 
in cup of milk and water. Add to the first mixture. Then add flour 
and melted chocolate. Last the baking powder. Bake either in 
loaf or two layers. 

Mrs. Ida Herron. 



Mahogany Cake, 

Cook together until thick and smooth — 



1/2 cupful grated chocolate 

(1/4 cake) 
% cupful sweet milk. 
Let stand until cool. 
Take li/o cupfuls sugar. 
y<z cupful butter. 
Cream sugar and butter. 

Bake in layers or dripping pan, and cut in squares. 

Esther McArthur. 



% cupful sweet milk. 
1 small teaspoonful soda. 
3 eggs. 
Add cooled chocolate. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

2 cups flour. 



Spice Cake. 



1 cupful sugar, 
% cupful butter. 

1 cupful cool coffee. 

2 eggs used separately. 

As much flour as necessary. 
Vi teaspoonful soda dissolved in 

coffee. 
1 heaping teaspoonful baking 

powder sifted with flour. 



% teaspoonful 

eluding mace. 
A little vanilla. 
1 large cup of raisins 

rants mixed. 
Last the beaten whites. 



of alspice in- 



and 



cur- 



Mrs. C. E. Heartburg. 



o 

»— I 

;< 
W 

o 
p 

to 

> 

H 

:^ 
O 




mmiMn. 




6 
z 

o 

> 

Q 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 







Division No. 


5. 




Chairman, Mrs. C. 


J. Evans. 


Dr. Harriet Adams. 


Mrs. 


Wm. McArthur. 


Miss 


Maude Babst. 


Miss Anna O'Meara. 


Mrs. 


A. P. Bishop. 


Miss 


Norma McEaehron. 


Mrs. 


R. C. Burke. 


Miss 


Mary Martin. 


Mrs. 


June Chapman. 


Mrs. 


Frank Mitchell. 


Mrs. 


E. B. Cowg-ill. 


Mrs. 


L. M. Nash. 


Mrs. 


Ernest Corbin. 


Mrs. 


R. C. Obrecht. 


Mrs. 


Mary Currier. 


Mrs. 


T. W. Peers. 


Mrs. 


Helen Cuttel. 


Mrs. 


Myra Neal. 


Mrs. 


J. A. Davidson. 


Mrs. 


S. A. Porter. 


Mrs. 


Frank Eckert. 


Mrs. 


W. J. Riekenbaeher. 


Mrs. 


R. H. Gaw. 


Mrs. 


F. A. Salmon. 


Mrs. 


J. D. Gosset. 


Mrs. 


Edvtrard Sechrest. 


Mrs. 


Geo. Joss. 


Mrs. 


F. L. Sherman. 


Mrs. 


Lewis Harbough. 


Mrs. 


Clara Smith. 


Mrs. 


J. F. Billings. 


Mrs. 


C. A. Sproul. 


Miss 


Bertha Hj^de. 


Miss Maude Spauldiug. 


Mrs. 


C. E. Heartburg. 


Mrs. 


E. L. Tague. 


Mrs. 


Helen Hobson. 


Mrs. 


A. E. True. 


Mrs. 


C. E. Hulett. 


Mrs. 


W. S. Warriner. 


Mrs. 


R. H. Johnston. 


Mrs. 


N. C. Wheeler. 


Mrs. 


R. C. Mayhew. 


Mrs. 


W. J. Whitson. 


Miss 


Charlotte Leavitt. 


Mrs. 


Arthur Wood. 


Mrs. 


W. C. Loucks. 







CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



To Feed Fifty 

The ladies of Central Church have found that it is required to 
serve fifty people: 

9 doz. baker's rolls or 5 loaves 10-cent bread, 

3 lbs. butter, 
10 lbs. pressed meat, 

15 lbs. ground meat for loaf, with 3 lbs. crackers, 
20 lbs. beef roast, 
20 lbs. chicken for pies, 

6 qts. oysters for stews or scallops, 

1 peck white potatoes (creamed) , 

5 lbs. lima beans (creamed) 
10 qts. baked beans, 

2 qts. sweet pickles, 

1 doz. heads celery, 

6 qts. cabbage salad, 

8 qts. potato salad, 

7 qts. fruit salad, 

3 pts. whipping cream for salads or desserts, 
3 medium cakes, 

5 doz. doughnuts or cookies, 

9 ten-inch pies, 

2 lbs. cheese, 

7 qts. brick ice cream, 
2i gals, bulk ice cream, 
3^ gals, lemonade, 

i lb. tea, 

1 lb. coffee, with 3 lbs. loaf sugar and 2 qts. coffee cream. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 81 



Mahogany Cake. 
Part 1. Part 2. 

1 cupful brown sugar. 1 cup grated chocolate. 

i/o cupful butter. 1/2 cupful sweet milk (heat). 

¥2 cupful sweet milk. 

2 cupfuls flour. 
2 eggs. 

Mix the 2 parts well and add one teaspoonful soda dissolved 

in hot water. 

Filling, 
2 cupfuls brown sugar. 1/2 cupful cream (boil). 

1/2 cupful butter. 

Marian Kennedy. 



Shortcake, 
2 cupfuls ^lour. 2 teasponfuls baking powder. 

i'2 teaspoonful salt. 4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Alberta Rosen. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 cupful milk. 

Sift together all the dry ingredients. Rub in the butter, then 
wet with milk to a soft dough. Drop it on a floured baking board 
and handling it just as little as possible roll and pat into 2 round 
cakes, which will fill a deep pie plate. Drop in 1 cake of the dough, 
brush with melted butter and lay the other one on top of it. Bake 
until crisp, brown and pufFy. Split and between the cake and on 
top, spread any fruit wiiich is in season. 

Mrs. E. L. Tague. 



Strawberry Short Cake. 
2 cupfuls of flour (should 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of 

measure 1 pt.) baking powder. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
A little salt. 1 egg in cup. 

Fill cup with milk and beat very light. Mix and spread in 

2 pans without rolling. Bake in a quick oven and serve 
warm with crushed berries between layers and whole berries on 
top. Garnish with strawberry leaves. 



82 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Fruit Shortcake. 

Mix 1 cupful flour aud butter 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 
size of walnut. Speck of salt. 

Beat 1 egg in cup and partly fill with milk, adding to above and 
mix with fork. Add sufficient milk to make batter like cake. Turn 
into greased pan. Bake in hot oven till a delicate brown. Requires 
about 20 miu. Cut with biscuit cutter and use any desired fruit 
between and on top. Also whipped cream, if desired. 

Mrs. Chas. S. Dietrich. 



Strawberry Short Cake. 

1 box of strawberries mashed with 1 cupful of sugar ; 

Cream 1 tablespoonful of butter with 2 of sugar and add 1 .well 
beaten egg, 4 tablespoonfuls of milk and 1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder and flour enough to make a soft dough. Turn out on the 
kneading board and shape into 2 cakes that will fit in your pie 
tin. Put one on top of the other, with bits of butter and a little 
flour between. Bake in a slow oven and when done run a knife 
around the edge and the cakes will easily divide. Put the mashed 
berries between the layers and over the cake, reserving a few whole 
ones for the top. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Righter. 

Shortcake. 

1 pint flour. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. i/o teaspoonful salt. 
1 cupful milk. 1 egg beaten. 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder. Rub butter in flour. Mix soft 
as you can handle. 

Mrs. C. L. Harbaugh. 



Fried Cakes. 
1 cupful of sugar. 2 eggs. 

A little shortening. 1 pint of sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. A little salt. 

Flour to mix very soft. Roll % inch thick; cut with doughnut 
cutter. Fry in hot fat. 

Mrs. Watson. 



CAKES AND COOKIES 83 



Doughnuts. 
Beat well together 2 eggs and 2 cups sugar. Add a pint of milk 
and quart of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of Calumet Baking Powder, a 
teaspoonful of spice. Beat all together well, add a little more flour 
to make a soft dough and cut in rings. This will make about four 
dozen medium size. 

Mrs. A. E. Schapley. 



Potato Doughnuts. 

1 pt. hot mashed potatoes. 3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 6 cupfuls flour. 

1 cup sweet milk. 5 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

Mabel C. Ackerman. 



General Directions for Cake Making. 

Good cake depends quite as much upon the way of putting it 
together as it does upon the quantity and quality of the ingredients 
used. 

Mixing — Warm the bowl and always cream the butter and sugar 
with the hands, add the sugar gradually enough to keep the mix- 
ture very soft ; beat the whites and yolks separately ; mix the yolks 
with the butter and sugar, using a slatted spoon. Add the milk; 
sift the baking powder several times with the flour, and stir in a 
little at a time, then the whites of the eggs, lastly the flavoring. 

Mrs. Geo. C. Beach. 



84 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

Plum Pudding. 



1 egg. 

1 nutmeg. 

3 1/2 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 



1 cupful suet chopped fine. 
1 cupful raisins. 
1 cupful rich milk. 

1 cupful cooking molasses. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 

Put in pudding molds and set in hot water. Cook 31/2 hours. 

Mrs. L. M. Jones. 

Amherst Pudding. 
1 cupful of molasses. 1 cupful of sweet milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved 1 cupful each of raisins and 

in molasses. currants. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. A little salt. 

1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon Flour to make a stiff batter, 
and cloves. 
Put in a pudding bag and keep it boiling 3 hours, or it may be 
cooked in a double boiler. Serve with hard sauce. 

Mrs. W. A. Harshbarger. 



Suet Pudding. 



1 cupful molasses. 
1 cupful chopped suet. 
1 cupful sweet milk. 
21/2 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful seeded raisins. 
Mix and steam 2l^ hours. 



1 lb. of English walnuts. 
1/4 lb. of figs. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful of cinnamon or 
nutmeg. 



Pudding Sauce. 

] cupful boiling water. 1 cupful powdered sugar. 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 1 egg. 

1/4 cupful butter. 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Wet the cornstarch in cold water and stir into the boiling water, 
boil 10 min. Rub butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually, then 
the egg well beaten. When the cornstarch has cooked 10 min., add 
vanilla and pour the whole into the butter, sugar and egg. 

Frances A. Lyman. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 85 



Suet Pudding. 

1 cupful of suet chopped fine. 3 cupfuls of flour 
1 cupful of syrup. 1 egg. 

1 cupful sour milk. 1/2 teaspoonful of cloves. 

1 teaspoonful of soda in milk. 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
1 cupful of chopped raisins. Pinch of salt. 

Steam 3 hours, serve with sauce preferred, 

Mrs. D. C. Roraaine. 



English Plum Pudding. 

One cup chopped raisins, one cup molasses, one cup chopped 
suet, one cup sour milk, one cup fine cracker crumbs, two cups 
flour, one rounding tablespoonful sugar, one heaping teaspoonful 
soda (beaten half in the milk and half in the molasses), one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, one-half teaaspoonful cloves, one-half teaspoon- 
ful allspice. Nutmeg, nuts and citron to suit the taste. Mix well 
and steam 3 hours. 

Mrs. W. L. Quail. 

Suet Pudding. 

1 cupful chopped suet. 1 cupful raisins and currants. 

1 cupful molasses. 4 cupfuls flour. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 cupful warm water. 
Steam three hours. 

Mrs. Edward Parson. 



Queen of Puddings. 

1 qt. of milk. 1 cupful of sugar. 

1 pt. of bread crumbs. 4 eggs. 

1 lemon. Butter the size of an egg. 

Soak the bread in the milk until soft. Beat the yolks of eggs 
light, then add the sugar and butter and the grated rind and juice 
of lemon. Bake about % of an hour or until it shrinks from the 
side of the baking dish. Beat the whites of eggs; sweeten with 
sugar and when the pudding is done spread with fresh fruit, jelly 
or jam; then the white of egg; return to oven and brown. To be 
eaten cold with cream. 

Mrs. 0. D. Crawford. 



86 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Chocolate Bread Pudding. 

1 cup soft bread crumbs, % cup i/^ egg. 

scalded milk — soak 1 hr. Speck salt. 
1/2 sq. Baker's chocolate. Vanilla. 

2y2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Scald bread and soak one hour. Melt chocolate in hot water. 
Add half of sugar and enough milk from bread and milk to make 
of consistency to pour. Add to mixture with remaining sugar, va- 
nilla and egg slightly beaten. Pour into buttered baking dishes. 
Bake in moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce. 



Hard Sauce. 

1 tablespoonful butter. Lemon or vanilla. 

6 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and then add flavoring. This 
is enough for three small dishes. 

Grace G. Wolcott. 



Peach Cottage Pudding. 
Make a batter with 
Yo cupful of sugar. 2 cupfuls flour sifter, and 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. lYz teaspoonfuls baking powder 
1 beaten egg. and a little salt. 

1 cupful milk. 

Stir in 2 cups sliced peaches and bake in loaf. Serve with whip- 
ped cream or clear sauce. 

Mrs. G. B. Howe. 



Chocolate Pudding. 

1 pt. milk. 1 cupful sugar. 

6 tablespoonfuls grated choco- 2 heaping tablespoonfuls corn 
late, melted. starch. 

Mix all dry ingredients and when milk comes to boiling point 
stir all in quickly one minute. 

Miriam E. Hand. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 87 

Pineapple Pudding. 

2% cupfuls scalded milk, i/4 teaspoonful salt. 

Vi cupful cold milk. V2 cupful grated pineapple. 

Third cupful corn starch. Whites of 3 eggs. 

1/4 cupful sugar. 

Mix the cornstarch, sugar and salt, dilute with cold milk. Add 
to scalded milk, stirring constantly until mixture thickens. Steam 
over hot water from 10 to 15 minutes. Cut and fold in the whites, 
beaten stiff, add the pineapple, fill individual molds, previously 
dipped in cold water. Serve plain or with cream. 

Olive White. 



Raspberry, Orange or Banana Pudding. 

Place the fruit in a bowl and cover with 1/0 cupful sugar; pour 
over this a custard, using 

1 pt. milk. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. i/^ cupful sugar. 

Heat milk in double boiler, add well beaten yolks of eggs and 
cornstarch, smoothed in a little cold milk. Cook together 5 minutes 
and then add 1 teaspoonful vanilla, set off and pour over fruit. Beat 
whites to a stiff froth, add 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, spread over top 
for frosting and set in oven and brown. Rat cold. 

C. M. Ruling. 



Steamed Pudding. 

1 cupful butter. 1 cup half filled with molasses 

1 qt. of flour. and the rest with sugar. 

IV2 cupful chopped raisins. 2 cupfuls of milk. 

1 cupful currants. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Mix and steam 3 hours. 

Foamy Sauce. 

Cream together 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 cupful of powdered 
sugar and a whole egg; when smooth add a speck of salt, 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla, and when ready to serve add 1 cupful of whipped cream. 

Miss A. M. Bair. 



88 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Baked Caramel Custard. 
% cup sugar, caramelized. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

2 eggs. Vk cup sugar. 

2 cups milk. ^ teaspoon salt. 

Caramelize three-fourths cup sugar; when a delicate brown color 
pour into a well buttered mold and set away to cool. Mix eggs, one- 
fourth cup sugar and salt ; add milk, strain into mold on cold cara- 
mel, add seasoning and bake. 

Jessie Dean. 



Raspberry Roll. 
Roll a rich baking powder biscuit dough to thickness of % inch ; 
spread with raspberry jam and fold into a roll. Slice and lay the 
slices in a buttered dish. Sprinkle 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of flour 
over all and add a liberal allowance of sugar, a piece of butter on 
each slice and one for the dish, nutmeg and salt. Just before put- 
ting in the oven, pour boiling water over all. The oven needs to 
be hot, so that the pudding will begin boiling immediately. If de- 
sired, this can be made 2 or 3 hours before meal time and set in 
the ice box. 

Mrs. W. A. Sloo. 

Fig- Pudding. 
1 cupful dark molasses. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 cupful chopped suet. 1 cupful milk. 

1 cupful chopped figs. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 2^ cupfuls flour. 

% teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Mix together molasses, suet, figs and spice, add soda and milk; 
then stir beaten egg mixture and add flour gradually. Beat all 
thoroughly, fill well oiled mould % full and steam 2 hours. Serve 
with Sterling sauce. 

Sterling Sauce. 
% cupful butter. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

1 cupful light brown sugar. 4 tablespoonfuls cream. 

Cream butter and add gradually the cream and flavoring drop 
by drop to prevent separation; heat slightly and beat well before 
serving. 

Mrs. Tucker. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 89 

Steamed Pudding. 

1 cupful molasses. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 cupful milk. % teaspoonful cloves. 
Third cupful butter. ^2 teaspoonful allspice. 
3 cupfuls flour. 1/2 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 1 cupful dates or raisins. 

Melt the butter and add to molasses and milk. Sift dry ingredi- 
ents together, add to moist ingredients and raisins. Steam for 2^2 
hours and serve with any desired sauce. 

Mildred V. Davidson. 



Cocoanut Sponge. 
Thicken a pint of milk with 2 tablespoonfuls (just level) of corn- 
starch, add 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar and a little salt, cook 10 min- 
utes and when partially cool beat in the stiffly beaten whites of 3 
eggs and a cupful of grated cocoanut. Serve with whipped cream 
or a sauce made with the yellows of the eggs. 

R. H. Cowgill. 



Blackberry 


Jam Pudding. 


% cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 


3 eggs. 


beaten light. 


3 tablespoons sour cream. 


lYz cups flour. 


1 teaspoon soda. 


1 cup blackberry jam. 


1 nutmeg. 


Bake and serve with sauce. 





Sauce for Blackberry Jam Pudding. 

tablespoon flour and 2 table- 1 cup boiling water. 

spoons butter, creamed. 4 tablespoons boiled cider (or 

cup brown sugar. juice of 1 lemon). 

Simmer together, stirring constantly. Serve hot. 

Hattie M. Halbert. 



Date Pudding. 

Cook 1 pound of chopped dates and 1 pint of milk in double 
boiler until thick. When cold mix chopped nuts. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Berniee M, Goudy. 



90 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Date Pudding. 
1 lb. dates. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

1 cupful English walnuts. ^2 cupful milk. 

1 cupful flour. 2 eggs. 

1 cupful sugar. 

Wash and seed dates and cut in rather small pieces; roll nut 
meats fine and add beaten eggs. Mix flour, baking powder and 
sugar together ; add to dates and nuts ; stir in the milk and steam 2^2 
hours with tight cover. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. S. F. Joy. 



Fruit Dumplings. 

Pinch of salt. % teaspoonful of soda. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Flour enough to make stiff batter. 

i/> cupful of milk, either sweet 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, 
or sour is used. 1 egg. 

If milk is skimmed add 1 teaspoonful of butter. Have any kind 
of fruit sauce boiling hot and drop dumplings in; cover and boil 
5 minutes. 

Mrs. Geo. A. Root. 



Sailor Duff. 
1 egg. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

% cupful molasses. 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 1% cupfuls of flour. 

% cupful of boiling water. 

Beat eggs and sugar together, add molasses and beat again, add 
the butter and soda and beat again, then add the flour and water 
and steam 1 hour. 

Sauce for Sailor Duff. 

1 cupful powdered sugar. 1/2 cupful of butter. 

1 egg. 3 tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 

Vanilla. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the egg, well beaten, last the 
hot water and vanilla. 

Mrs. J. A. Worcester. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 91 

Fig Tapioca Pudding. 

3 tablespoonfuls minute tapioca. 1 cupful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of butter. % pound of figs. 

2 cupfuls of water. 

Cook until clear the tapioca in 2 cupfuls of water, with the 
butter, stir often. Cook about 15 minutes. Chop the figs fine, add 
1 cupful water and the sugar, cook until smooth and thick. Take 
both from the stove and mix them together, flavor with 1 teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Serve cold with cream. 

Stella Wolcott. 



Snow Pudding. 

1/2 box of Knox's gelatine. 2 cupfuls of sugar. 

3 eggs. 1 pint of hot water. 

1 lemon. 

Dissolve gelatine in water, add lemon juice and sugar, mix well 
and strain, put in a large bowl and when it begins to thicken stir 
in the whites of the eggs. Beat until thick, light and white, then 
pour into moulds. Turn out of moulds when ready to serve and 
serve with the following sauce. 



Sauce. 

1 pt. of milk. Pinch of salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. A little grated lemon rind. 



Yolks of 3 eggs. Cook. 



Mrs. L. W. Timberlake. 



Apple Snow. 

3 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch to 1 qt. of milk. Dissolve the 
starch in a little of the milk and add the yolks of 2 eggs and 4 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth, add 4 grated apples, a few drops lemon juice and I/2 cupful 
of sugar. Use as a dressing for the pudding. 

Dorothy Bair. 



92 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Cranberry Stars. 
1 qt. of firm cranberries. 14 pint water. 

Boil slowly 10 minutes. Press through colander and add 1 qt. 
sugar. Heat till almost boiling; pour into low pan and set on ice, 
when hardened cut with star shaped cookie cutter. 

Ethel Grant. 



Stewed Cranberries. 
1 lb. cranberries washed and 1 lb. granulated sugar, 

picked over one by one. y^. pint water. 

Place water and sugar on range to boil stirring constantly, when 
boiling hot throw in the berries. They will soon begin to burst, 
stir continually till well cooked, about 10 min. after all begin 
to boil. Put in molds dipped in cold water and not dried and set 
until the following day. If paper is pasted over the molds it will 
keep for weeks. It will turn out like jelly, but is nicer to eat 
with turkey as you have the whole berry. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Whitney. 

Rose Apples. 

Make a syrup of a cupful of sugar and a pint of boiling water. 
You can color it pink with the coloring tablet from a packet of 
gelatine. In it let simmer six or eight pared and cored apples, turn- 
ing them often to keep the shape. When tender throughout and 
tinted rose color, remove to a serving dish ; boil the syrup quite thick 
and pour around the apples. Serve with a pitcher of cream. 

Helen M. Ingham. 



MEATS 93 



MEATS 

Parsonage Scalloped Beef. 

2 ciipfiils chopped cooked beef. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
2 cupfuls tomato juice. Pepper and salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Rub 2 tablespoonfuls of flour into 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in 
skillet. Pour in 2 cupfuls of tomato juice, pepper and salt and cook 
to a sauce. Butter a baking dish. Put in a layer of chopped beef 
(either boiled or roasted) with pepper and salt. Cover with tomato 
sauce. Put on another layer of beef, then of tomato sauce and cover 
with cracker crumbs and bake 20 minutes. 

Mrs. R. B. Guild. 



Spanish Hash. 

Chop together 4 cold boiled potatoes, 2 small onions and 1 green 
pepper. Then add 1 cupful chopped cold roast meat and 1 cupful 
tomatoes. Season with pepper, salt and paprika and add 1 egg. 
Bake in small patty pans and serve with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. C. S. Loper. 



Baked Ham. 

Select nice slices of ham. Sprinkle with mustard, about a level 
teaspoonful to each slice. Put into a stew pan and just cover with 
milk or cream. Bake in a moderate oven until tender and brown. 
This is a delicious way of cooking ham. 

Mary Gleed Coe. 



Beef Loaf. 

2 lbs. round steak, ground. 1 cupful sweet milk. 
Yo lb. fat fresh pork, ground. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

3 large crackers rolled fine. Salt and pepper to taste. 
1 egg. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

Mix all together, put in a pan and bake. 

Mrs. G. S. Burt. 



94 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Swiss Steak. 
2 lbs. round steak. Tomatoes. 

Onions. Salt and pepper. 

Lay the steak on a board and with the edge of a thick plate 
work or pound into it 1 cupful flour, using % cupful to each side. 
Brown in a greased pan. When browned, cover with boiling water, 
onions and tomatoes, salt and pepper, and let simmer for 3 hrs. 
Enough for 6. 

Mrs. Wahle. 



Pork Chops with Tomato Dressing, 

6 pork chops. 1/2 cupful flour. 

3 cupfuls tomatoes. Salt, pepper and butter. 

6 medium potatoes. 

1 onion. 

Lay pork chops in bottom of roasting pan and season them. Over 
the chops place the seasoned tomatoes and sliced onion. Sprinkle 
with flour and a piece of butter. Cover with potato sliced a quarter 
of an inch thick and put in enough water to cook. Baste frequently. 
Cook in the oven one hour, 

Mrs. Nora Spencer Adams. 



Veal Birds. 

1^4 veal steak. 1 pt. dressing such as used for 

roast turkey, etc. 
Cut veal in about 3 inch squares, spread on dressing roll and 
fasten together with tooth picks. Put in frying pan, which already 
has grease hot. Fry brown as for chicken. Just before removing 
pour in i/> cupful boiling water, covering and letting steam a few 
minutes. 

Mrs. Irwin W. Cook, 

. Moscow, Idaho, 



Ham and Tomato. 

1 thick slice of ham. Juice of 1 quart of tomatoes. 

Place ham in skillet, pour tomato juice over it and bake in slow 
oven one hour. 

Ellen Heartburg. 



MEATS 95 

Veal Birds. 

Cut thin slices of veal steak into pieces 3-4 inches. Make a 
dressing of bread crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, butter and a 
little onion. Put a teaspoonful of the dressing on each piece of 
meat. Roll and fasten together with round tooth picks. Dredge 
with salt, pepper and flour and fry very slowly in hot butter and 
lard until a golden brown. Now half cover with milk or cream 
and simmer 20 minutes or more. 

Serve on toast with the cream sauce poured over them. 

Mrs. T. W. Peers. 



Savory Roast. 

Make according to these proportions: One cup bean or peas 
pulp, one egg, one-half cup bread crumbs, one small minced onion, 
one-half teaspoonful sage, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half cup 
tomato juice, one-eighth cup browned flour, two tablespoonfuls 
cream, one-half teaspoonful celery salt, or two stalks of celery 
ground up. Mix in the order given and bake in moderate oven 
about thirty minutes. 

Verna Wise. 



Breaded Chops. 

Dip the chops in cold water, then in dried bread crumbs. Fry 
in a little fat until a light brown. Add a little hot water, cover 
closely and cook slowly for one-half hour. Salt and pepper them 
just before taking out of the pan. 

Lutie J. Embleton. 



Meat Souffle. 
1 cupful scalded milk. 3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

1 cupful ground meat. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. Whites of 3 eggs. 

Make white sauce of milk, butter and flour, cool slightly and 
stir in yolks of eggs and ground meat. Season with salt and pep- 
per and fold in stiffly beaten whites. Place in buttered ramekins. 
Bake in water. 

Anna B. Ingham. 



96 CENTRAL CONGKEGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Mutton Balls. 

Mutton, 1 pt. I/O cupful soft bread crumbs. 

1/2 salt spoon pepper. Whites of one or two eggs. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Chop cold cooked mutton, add the above ingredients and make 
into balls size of English walnuts. 

Strain % can tomato, put in a sauce pan and add a slice of onion. 
Boil until reduced one half. Add mutton balls, cover and keep 
just at boiling point for ten minutes. Lift balls carefully and add 
butter to tomatoes, pour over balls, garnish with triangular pieces 
of toast. 

Ella S. McEaehron. 



Cold Meat. 

Boil a neck piece of beef in as little water as possible, with bay 
leaf. Cook until very tender, then pick it apart or cut with meat 
chopper. Season well with salt, pepper and celery salt. To the 
stock add cream of wheat and cook until it thickens. Add meat 
and 1 can of chopped pimentos. Turn into a mould to press and 
harden. 

Emma M. Wallace. 



A Pot Roast. 

Take three pounds of neck boil, cut out part of the fat, try out 
in skillet and sear the meat thoroughly in it. Place the meat in a 
covered earthen or aluminum baking dish. Add one cup of flour 
to the grease in which the meat Avas seared (be sure there is plenty) 
and stir till flour is evenly brown. Scatter it into the baking dish 
around meat, pour in a can of tomatoes, place two onions, four 
cloves, one cayenne pepper, one bay leaf and salt as usual. Cover 
tightly, place over tiny flame and cook gently until the meat falls 
apart. 

Mrs. Lumina C. R. Smyth. 



I— I 

> 
o 

c: 

so 

o 
r 

o 

H 
O 
2; 




MEATS 97 

Dressing for Fowls. 
For au eight or ten pound turkey, cut the brown crust from 
slices or pieces of stale bread until you have as much as the inside 
of a pound loaf, put it into a suitable dish and i^our tepid water 
(not warm for that makes it hurry) over it ; let it stand one min- 
ute as it soaks very quickly. Now take up a handful at a time and 
squeeze hard and dry. When all is pressed dry, toss it up lightly 
with your fingers, and add half cup of butter, a teaspoonful of 
summer savorj^, the same amount of sage, salt and pepper, and a 
beaten egg; half can of slightly chopped oysters may be added if 
desired, and for geese and ducks add a few slices of onion chopped 
fine. 

Mrs. H. C. Robertson. 



Oyster Dressing for Turkey. 
Cracker crumbs according to size of turkey, moistened with milk, 
and the liquor from fifteen cents worth of oysters. 

Chop the heart and liver, add salt and pepper. Chop two 
stalks of celery. Add to the cracker, also the oysters cut in two, 
and a tablespoonful of butter, cut up in small pieces. 

Mrs. L. F. White. 



Meat Left Overs. 

In these days of high priced meat even the scraps must be put 
to use and the question which troubles us all is how to be econom- 
ical, and at the same time avoid monotony. A teacupful of cold 
meat scraps from a soup bone, or the end of a steak, or a bit of pot 
roast will make a good 



Hash. 

Run meat through grinder, or chop rather fine, mix with twice 
as much potatoes coarsely chopped. Fry a little onion in dripping 
and put in mixed meat and potato. Add water enough to be seen 
at the sides and let cook, stirring as little as possible until there 
is a nice crust formed at the bottom, salt and pepper and turn 
over to cook the other side a little, but without waiting to brown. 
It shoould neither be dry nor dripping. Cold corned beef makes the 
best hash. 



98 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CnURCH COOK BOOK 

Meat on Toast. 

A cupful of finely chopped meat, warmed up in a little milk or 
water and thickened a trifle may be put by spoonfuls on slices of 
nicely browned toast. It makes a dainty supper dish. 

Cold fish sprinkled over toast and with a white sauce poured 
over all is very good. 



Croquettes. 

A cup of meat can be chopped fine with a half cupful of cracker 
crumbs, moistened with white sauce, seasoned, made in balls, fried 
and served with a tomato or mushroom sauce. Veal is especially 
good this way. 

Cold meat may be chopped, seasoned and moistened with stock 
or water, put in the bottom of an earthenware baking dish and 
covered with a layer of mashed potatoes dressed with milk, butter, 
salt and pepper and with the beaten white of an egg stirred in. Set 
in oven and brown. 



CANNING 99 



CANNING 
Canning Berries. 

Put jars to be used in pan of water, set on stove till water boils. 
In the meantime make your syrup of water and sugar, let come to a 
boil ; put in berries, boil slowly five minutes. Put fruit in boiling hot 
jars and seal at once. Now immerse, top down in melted parowax, 
about a half inch below where cap and jar meet. This fruit will be 
just as nice and fresh in twelve months as the day you sealed it. 



Sunshine Strawberries. 
Place equal weight of fruit and sugar in layers in earthen, gran- 
ite or aluminum dish. Let stand over night. In the morning pour 
juice into cooking vessel, boil and skim well. Now jiour in fruit, 
boil rapidly five minutes, pour out on platters and let stand in 
strong sunlight two days, or until the juice is quite thick. Then seal 
cold. Cherries prepared in same manner are also most delicious. 

Mrs. Hostetler. 



Canned Raspberries. 
A good way to keep raspberries whole. 

Fill jars with berries, put on caps without the rubbers, place 
them in a wash boiler or kettle. Boil about twenty minutes. Then 
take out jars, fill them up with a syrup already prepared, allowing 
three-fourths cup sugar to each qt. jar. Then seal. Place thin 
boards in bottom of boiler to keep jars from breaking. 

Mrs. S. H. Hoover. 



Preserved Strawberries. 

1 lb. sugar to each lb. of berries. Make a syrup, using very little 
water. When syrup boils, put in the strawberries. Do not cook 
them, merely heat. Then turn out berries and syrup in platters or 
shallow granite pans. Let stand in sun two days; then put into 
glass jars. Do not heat them again. Cherries also are very nice 
preserved in this way. 

Alberta Davis. 



100 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Jam. 

Most recipes call for making a heavy syrup for jam. I take any 
kind of fruit commonly used for jam; select and wash; put in a 
preserving kettle and the water that drains from it will start the 
sugar to melt; put the sugar on top of the fruit, about pound for 
pound; start it over a slow fire, stand by it, stir it slowly and it 
will soon be melted. 20 to 30 minutes cooking after it starts to 
boil usually finishes it. It varies with the amount of juice in the 
fruit. 



Strawberry Preserves. 

,Small berries are fully as good as larger ones for preserving, a 
pint of granulated sugar to each pint of fruit. Make a syrup of the 
sugar and put in the fruit and cook until thick and waxy looking 
when dropped from spoon. Have ready a quantity of nice large 
berries which now add to the hot preserves, about a quart of large 
berries to two quarts of the cooked fruit. Now cook about 10 or 
15 minutes longer, stirring all the time, then seal in pint glass jars. 
The whole berries will retain their bright red color. 

Bessie T. Waite. 



Conserve. 

1 basket plums. 1 lb. raisins. 

3 oranges. 1 lb. nut meats. 

2 lemons. 5 lbs. sugar. 

Cook 30 minutes, add nuts and cook a few minutes longer. Ex- 
cellent. 

N. V. G. Everhard. 



Orange Marmalade. 
1 doz. oranges, wash and prick with a fork, cover with water, 
cook until soft to prick with a fork, remove from water. Cut 
oranges in halves and remove hard part or seeds. Squeeze slightly 
and grind in meat grinder, save all juice. To every measure of 
pulp and juice, add IV2 measure of sugar. Boil 45 minutes, stirring 
constantly. Do not use water oranges were boiled in. 

Mrs. J. P. Kaster. 



CANNING 101 



Pickled Pears. 
8 pounds fruit. 1 pint water. 

31/^ lbs. sugar. 2 tablespoons whole cloves. 

1 pint vinegar. 2 tablespoons ground cinnamon. 

Put spices in bag to prevent darkening fruit. Peel and halve 
large pears; use small ones whole. Let boil slowly until clear and 
tender. Will keep without sealing. 

Mrs. L. M. Darling. 



Spiced Pears. 

Peel and cut in small pieces a peck of Bartlett pears, not over 
ripe ; arrange in layers in a white porcelain kettle, sprinkling with 
five pounds of sugar. Allow them to remain covered over night 
and in the morning place over a slow fire, adding a pound and a 
half of crystalized ginger, 3 sliced lemons with the seeds removed, 
1 small cupful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a table- 
spoonful of powdered cinnamon and half a dozen whole cloves. 
Cook until reduced i/4 and seal when cold in small jelly tumblers. 

Cora Currier. 



Salted Cherries. 

Prick large perfect cherries, leaving the stem on (may be clipped 
rather short). Wash and put into quart jars. Put a rounding 
tablespoonful of salt on top of each jar. Fill up with cold cider 
vinegar not too strong. Seal ready for use in 6 weeks. 

Helen M. Ingham. 



Canned String Beans. 

Boil and cool several quarts of water; remove porcelain from 
lids ; snap the beans as for cooking ; wash thoroughly, using steril- 
ized water for the last washing; pack closely in jars and place 
rubbers on, filling with sterilized water and put on lids very loosely. 
Place strips of wood in bottom of boiler; set in the jars, with cold 
water surrounding them a little more than half way up and cook 
2 hours after cooking begins, with lide on; after this screw down 
the lids on the jars. Use golden wax beans. 

Mrs. H. W. Higgins, 



102 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL. CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Cherry Olives. 
Pick cherries carefully, leaving stems on and in clusters as much 
as possible. Wash and place in fruit jar. To each quart of cher- 
ries add 1 tablespoonful salt and cold vinegar to cover fruit and 
seal. 

Mrs. Geo. E. Joss. 



Com Relish. 

10 cupfuls corn cut off cob. 4 tablespoonfuls mustard seed. 

10 cupfuls chopped cabbage. 2 tablespoonfuls celery seed. 

5 red peppers, chopped. 3 tablespoonfuls salt. 

3 cupfuls granulated sugar. I/2 gal. of vinegar. 

Mix ingredients together and boil a half liour, and seal. 

Mrs. Frank M. Warren. 



Cucmnber Relish. 

12 full grown cucumbers, pare. 6 green peppers. 
4 onions. 

Chop all together; add I/2 cupful salt and drain over night. 
2 tablespoonfuls white mustard 1 cupful sugar. 

seed. 1 teaspoonful celery seed. 

1 cupful grated horseradish. 

Cover with cold vinegar, or add vinegar; bring to a boil and 
seal. 

Helen Curry. 



Dill Pickles. 

Soak medium sized cucumbers in salt water that will float an 
egg, from 12 to 24 hours; remove from brine and pack in mason 
jars, alternating with a layer of dill and a layer of white mustard 
seed. Care should be taken not to allow pickles to lay against the 
side of the jar, as this forms an air chamber and causes pickles 
to spoil. Just fill full enough to allow them to shake loosely in 
jar. Heat to boiling very weak vinegar, about 1/3 vinegar 2/3 
water, adding 1 cupful sugar to 2 gal. of vinegar, pour over pickles 
and seal. These will keep indefinitely. 

Mrs. Bowlby. 



CANNING 103 



Pimento Relish. 
cupfuls of ground cabbage not 1 teaspoonful of celery seed. 

too coarse. 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

doz. ground sweet or sour l^ cupful of vinegar. 

pickles. A little salt and pepper. 

15-cent can of pimentos. 

Mrs. C. L. McGuire. 



Cucumber Pickles. 

To 100 cucumbers add 1 pint fine salt dissolved in boiling water 
and pour on them hot, let stand 24 hours; turn off and rinse, then 
dissolve in boiling water a piece of alum, the size of an egg; pour 
on hot, let stand 6 hours, pour off and rinse and then scald cider 
vinegar, enough to cover the pickles; add ^A oz. each of cloves, 
cinnamon and white mustard seeds with 1 cupful sugar and pour 
over cucumbers boiling hot. 

Lovina J. Callaham. 



Plain Pickles. 

1 cupful of salt to 1 gallon of good cider vinegar. After dis- 
solving pour over the cucumbers and cover well with horseradish 
leaves, weight down with a plate to keep them under the vinegar. 
Will keep for a year. 

Mrs. H. D. Smith. 



Chopped Pickle. 

% bu. green tomatoes. 2 doz. large apples. 

2 large heads of cabbage. 1 doz, onions. 

2 doz. cucumbers. 3 or 4 peppers. 

Grind all through coarse meat chopper; sprinkle salt over cab- 
bage and tomatoes; let stand over night; drain and press dry; put 
in a large pan and add i/4 lb. black mustard seed, % lb. white 
mustard seed, 1 oz. celery seed, or 1 large head celery, 8 cupfuls 
brown sugar, 2 cupfuls grated horse radish, 2 gal. good vinegar, not 
too strong, 1 tablespoonful each of cinnamon and allspice; let boil 
iy2 hours. 1/4 lb. ground mustard blended with a little cold watei 
added just as you take from fire. This pickle will keep in open 
jar. Very nice. 

Mrs. Wm. McArthur. 



104 CENTRAL, CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Chopped Pickle. 

25 red peppers. 6 cupfuls of sugar. 

25 green peppers. 4 tablespoonfuls salt. 

3 qts. of white onions. 2 qts. of good cider vinegar. 

Take out all the seeds from peppers; chop the peppers and 
onions together; pour boiling water over to cover; let stand 10 
minutes, then drain and cover again with boiling water; stand 10 
minutes ; drain well ; dissolve the sugar and salt in the vinegar 
and pour over the mixture of peppers and onions. Cook 15 min- 
utes and put up in mason jars. Chop the mixture fine, but not 
too fine. 

Mrs. S. A. Lyman 



Chopped Pickle, 

One peck of green tomatoes, two quarts of onions and two of 
peppers. Chop all fine, separately, and mix, adding three cupfuls 
of salt. Let them stand over night, and in the morning drain well. 
Add half a pound of mustard seed, two tablespoonfuls of ground 
allspice, two of ground cloves and one cupful of grated horseradish. 
Pour over it three quarts of boiling vinegar. 

Mrs. A. G. Clark. 



Mustard Pickle. 

To 1 gl. of vianegar add 1 large cupful sugar. 

% Ih. ground mustard. 2 tablespoonfuls tumeric. 

1 cupful mustard seed. 1 tablespoonful celery seed. 

If vinegar is not thick enough add a little flour; heat vinegar 
hot ; mix all spices together with a little cold vinegar and boil 5 
minutes and stir well. 

Small onions. Green tomatoes sliced. 

Small cucumbers. Large cucumbers, 1^/2 in-, sliced. 

Cauliflower. Green peppers. 

Cook all in diluted vinegar till slightly tender; cook few at a 
time to keep in shape. Pour dressing over and mix thoroughly. 

Mabel Huggins, North China. 



CANNING 105 



Ripe Tomato Pickle. 

3 pints chopped ripe tomatoes. 6 tablespoonfuls mustard seed. 

4 tablespoonfuls chopped onions. 6 tablespoonfuls sugar, 

4 tablespoonfuls red peppers. 1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 
4 tablespoonfuls salt. 2 cupfuls vinegar. 

Mix together in the order named and heat. This will keep with- 
out sealing. Drain the juice from tomatoes before adding to vine- 
gar. 

Mrs. J. W. Crane. 



Piccallilli. 

2 gal. cabbage chopped fine. 6 tablespoonfuls mustard seed, 

1 gal. green tomatoes. white. 

1 qt. onions. 4 tablespoonfuls celery seed. 

1 doz. green peppers. Cloves and allspice to taste. 

4 lbs. sugar. 1 gal. vinegar. 

4 tablespoonfuls salt. 
Boil 25 minutes. 

Mrs. T. W. Reynolds. 



Chili Sauce. 
12 large ripe tomatoes or 1 qt. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

2 onions chopped fine. 1% cupfuls vinegar. 

3 tablespoonfuls brown sugar, 4 ripe or 3 green peppers, 
1 tablespoonful salt. 

Boil 3 hours and seal in bottles or cans. 

Mrs. H. 0. Belden. 



Tomato Relish for Cold Meat. 

3 ripe tomatoes. % teaspoonful of celery seed. 

1 small onion. 1 teaspoonful of sugar. 

1/2 teaspoonful of salt. 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

1/4 teaspoonful of ground 
mustard. 

Prepare tomatoes and onion, put them through the grinder or 
chop, mix dry ingredients, then mix all together. Ready for im- 
mediate use. 



106 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Grape Catsup. 



2 oz. mixed spices. 
A little salt. 



5 lbs. solid ripe grapes. 
21/2 lbs. sugar. 
1 pt. vinegar. 

Boil until it thickens. Bottle when cold. 

Mrs. Elizabeth E. Bailey. 



ChUi Sauce. 

12 large ripe tomatoes. 2 large onions. 

4 large green peppers. 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

2 cupfuls of vinegar. 1 tablespoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. % teaspoonful of cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls of celery seed. 

Chop ingredients fine and place all in a preserving kettle and 
simmer about 3 hours. Seal in jars. 

Mrs. Wm. Weir. 



Pepper Hash. 

12 green mango peppers. 3 tablespoonfuls salt. 

12 red mango peppers. 3 pints cider vinegar. 

15 large white onions. IM2 cupfuls sugar. 

Chop the peppers and onions fine ; drain ; boil vinegar and sugar 
and pour over all. Delicious. 

Clara L. Couron. 



SOUPS 107 



SOUPS 

Oyster Soup. 
1 pint oysters. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 quart rich milk. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Drain oysters; heat milk in a double boiler and thicken with 1 
tablespoonful flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. Add oysters 
and butter; let oysters heat through, but do not boil. 

Gertrude Brockett. 



Tomato Soup. 

1 qt. water. 1 pt. tomatoes. 

1 pt. sweet milk. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 tablespoonful butter. Salt and pepper. 

Put water, tomatoes and soda on first; let boil up well before 
adding to milk. 

Mrs. M. G. Hathaway. 



Clam Soup. 

Cook 2 quarts of clams 10 minutes in their liquor. Add salt 
and pepper and 3 pints of milk; 2 tablespoonfuls flour mixed with 
butter the size of an egg; let come to a boil and strain. 

Mrs. J. A. Crabb. 



Potato Soup. 

Cut in cubes 4 good sized potatoes; boil until tender; drain off 
water, all but 1 pint. Add 1 pint of milk, 1 small chopped onion, 
pepper and celery salt and 1 heaping tablespoonful butter. 

Mrs. J. J. Puller. 



Vegetable Soup. 

Peel and slice six potatoes, and two medium sized onions. Add 
one cup of tomato juice and one and one-half quarts of water. 
Season with salt, one bay leaf, and a suspicion of cayenne, and cook 
one-half hour. Serve with crackers. 

Genevieve Wise. 



108 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



SOUFFLES 

Rice Souffle. 

Heat a cupful of milk in a double boiler and when it is scald- 
ing hot, stir into it a roux made by heating together in a frying 
pan a tablespoonful of flour with a heaping tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Rub smooth in the pan before it goes into the milk. Pour 
into a bowl and let it get cold. Then beat into it a cupful of cold 
boiled rice, the whipped yolks and frothed whites of 4 eggs, adding 
the stiffened whites last and quickly. Turn at once into a buttered 
pudding dish and set in a brick oven. Bake until the souffle puffs 
high in the middle and the eggs are set. Serve immediately with 
cream and sugar. 

Marie Mayhew. 



Salmon Souffle. 

Pour the oil off of the can of salmon and remove the bones and 
skin. Mix the salmon with 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, salt 
and pepper and bake 20 minutes, setting the pan in water. 

Sauce. 

Add enough milk to the oil to make a pint. Melt a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and a tablespoonful of flour, and then add the liquid, 
salt and pepper. Boil until done. 

Ella Lee Cowgill. 



Cheese Souffle. 

1 cupful milk. 4 egg yolks. 

1 cupful grated cheese. 4 egg whites. 

4 tablespoonfuls flour. , A little salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Make milk, butter, flour and salt into thick white sauce. Add 
cheese and stir until melted. Cool slightly and add egg yolk. Beat 
whites stiff and fold into mixture. Turn into 2 buttered baking 
dishes and set in a pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven until 
firm. Serve at once. 

Ethel L. Warren. 



DESSERTS 109 



DESSERTS 

Strawberry Bavarian. 
1 cupful heavy cream. 3 teaspoonfuls gelatine. 

8 tablespooufuls sugar. 4 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

1 cupful crushed strawberries. 8 whole strawberries. 

Swell gelatine in cold water ; dissolve over hot water ; add sugar 
and gelatine to crushed berries; set mixture in crushed ice; allow 
to thicken to syrup, stirring occasionally. Whip cream stiff; add 
to berry mixture ; pour into wet mold, which has been decorated 
with berries. Chill on ice, unmold and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. C. J. Evans. 



Baked Alaska. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 2 qts. of brick ice cream. 

1 cupful powdered sugar. Thin sheet of sponge cake. 

Make a meringue of wliites of eggs and powdered sugar. Cover 
a board with paper; place on this the sponge cake; turn ice cream 
on the cake (which should extend V2 inch beyond cream) ; cover 
with meringue and spread smoothly ; place on oven grate and brown 
quickly in hot oven ; slip from paper on ice cream platter. Serve 
at table, cutting slices % inch thick through ice cream and cake. 

Fidelia Benton. 



Pineapple Sponge. 

% package gelatine. i/^ cupful cold water. 

1 cupful sugar. 1 cupful water. 

1 cupful shredded pineapple. 1 cupful whipped cream. 

Dissolve gelatine in cold water; boil sugar and water together 
until a syrup ; add this to the gelatine ; add to this the shredded 
pineapple ; when about ready to set, add whipped cream, mix it 
well together and set aside to mold. 

Mrs. Ernest Hogueland. 



110 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Apricot Ice. 

1 lb. dried apricots. 2 lemons. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 

Boil the apricots until soft and ran through a colander. To 
this pulp add the 3 cupfuls sugar and cook until sugar and apri- 
cots are well mixed. Cool and add the juice of 2 lemons and 
enough water to fill the freezer about % full. Freeze. This receipt 
makes 1^2 gal. 

Vivian Herron. 



Raspberry Whip. 

% cupful red raspberries. \i> cupful powdered sugar. 

1/2 egg white. 

Put ingredients in bowl and beat with wire whisk until stiff 
enough to hold in shape, about 30 minutes will be required for beat- 
ing. Chill; pile high; serve with lady fingers. Other fresh fruit 
may be used in same manner. 

Mona M. Thomas. 



CANDIES 111 



CANDIES 

Chocolate Divinity Fudge. 

3 cups granulated sugar. % cup milk. 

2 squares chocolate. % teaspoon vanilla. 

V2 cup white corn syrup. 2 egg whites beaten stiff. 

14 iteaspoon salt. % cup chopped nut meats. 

Put sugar, chocolate, syrup, salt, and milk into porcelain lined 
pan and boil gently to 113°C or until a little of the mixture will 
form a soft ball in very cold water. Remove from fire, add vanilla, 
and cool. Then slowly add to the egg whites, beating constantly. 
Continue to beat until creamy. Add nuts and pour onto buttered 
plate or form into molds. 

Mahle Coe. 



Foundation Candy. 

2 cupfuls sugar. Cream of tartar one-third size 

yn cupful water. of cherry seed. 

Mix thoroughly before placing on fire. Keep covered and cook 
until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Set aside 
and cool until it can be dented without sticking. Then beat briskly 
till creamy, turn out and mark into any desired shapes, any color 
or flavoring may be used or any kind of nuts whole or ground may 
be used in this foundation with delightful results. 



Cocoanut Candy. 

1 pt. sugar. Vi pt. milk. 

% pt. cocoanult. 

Cook 5 minutes. Remove from fire and set pan in a dish of cold 
water. Stir briskly until creamy. Turn into buttered dish and 
knead while warm. 



Butter Scotch. 

1 eupfuF molasses. % cupful butter. 

1 cupful sugar. 

Cook together until it hardens when dropped in cold water. 
Turn into buttered pan and cut into squares. 



112 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Divinity. 

To 1/2 cupful syrup, 3 cupfuls brown sugar and 2/3 cupful water, 
add one ounce cliolocate melted over hot water, and set to boil. 
When it will make a soft ball when tested in cold water, pour 
slowly over the whites of 2 eggs, which have been beaten together 
with I/O teaspoonful salt to a stiff dry froth, beating continually. 
When very thick, add 1 cupful nut meats and turn out in buttered 
tins to cool. Cut in squares. The chocolate is not actually required. 

Miss Anna Crane. 



Sea Foam. 

Cook 3 cupfuls light brown sugar, 1 cupful water, 1 tablespoon- 
ful vinegar until the syrup forms a hard ball when dropped into 
cold water. Pour it slowly over the stiffly beaten whites of 2 eggs, 
beating continually until candy is stiff enough to hold its shape. 
Then work in % cupful chopped nuts and ^/^ teaspoonful vanilla. 
Drop by tablespoonfuls on waxed paper. 

Helen Case. 



Nut Candy. 

2 cupfuls sugar. Butter size of walnut. 

V2 cupful cream. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

2 squares of chocolate. 

Let it boil until it forms a soft ball when dropped into cold water. 
Then take it from the fire quickly. Let it cool a minute, then beat 
it hard until it begins to stiffen. Add nuts then beat again until 
it gets pretty stiff, then pour into a buttered pan and cut into 
squares. Do not stir while cooking. 

Myrtle Timberlake. 

Cream Divinity. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 2 cupfuls English walnuts 
1 cupful very light syrup. chopped rather fine. 
1% cupfuls creaan. 

Boil sugar, syrup and cream until it forms a ball in cold water. 
Take off stove. Let cool without stirring. Then add nuts and 
stir until cold. Put in buttered pan. 

Guenn P. Godard. 



H 
> 

O 
»^ 
*^ 
H 

S 

a 

c 

O 
O 

O 
W 

CD 



CD 
h- ' 
CO 




CANDIES 113 



Marshmallows. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 14 tablespoonfuls water. 

Dissolve 1 pkg. Knox gelatine in 12 tablespoonfuls water. Cook 
syrup until it drops ; then add gelatine and beat. Pour off on plate 
with cover of cornstarch and pulverized sugar. 

Mary A. Grant. 



Chocolate Creams. 

Take 2 cupfuls granulated sugar or pulverized sugar and l^ 
cup cream. Mix well and let boil for five minutes. Then take from 
the stove and stir briskly until it is stiff. Flavor it with vanilla, 
then drop from a spoon on a buttered plae. If you take pains 
these drops may easily be of respectable shape. In the meantime 
have your chocolate broken in little bits in a bowl. Have some 
water boiling and set the bowl over it. The chocolate will soon 
melt. Remove from heat and with a fork roll the drops in the 
melted chocolate and put back on plate to harden. 

Esther Joss. 



Wellesley Marshmallow Fudge. 
Heat 2 cupfuls granulated sugar and 1 cupful rich milk (cream 
is better). Add 2 squares of Baker's Premium No. 1 chocolate, and 
boil until it hardens in cold water. Just before it is done add a 
small piece of butter. Then begin to stir in marshmallows, crushing 
and beating them with a spoon. Continue to stir in marshmallows 
after the fudge has been taken from the fire, until half a pound 
has been stirred into the fudge. Cool in sheets % of an inch thick 
and cut in cubes. 

Clara B. Eeynolds. 



Pudge. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls chocolate. 

1 cupful milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Boil 15 minutes. Flavor and beat until almost cold. Pour in 
buttered dish. 

Helen J. Hand. 



114 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Candy — Best Ever. 

2 cupfuls white sugar. Va cupful water. 

% cupful white corn syrup. V2 cupful English walnuts. 

Boil until hard in water (form a medium hard ball when dropped 
in water), stir into the beaten whites of two eggs, and beat until 
it begins to thicken. Stir in the nuts and flavor. Pour on a but- 
tered platter and when cool cut in squares. 

Ella Mildred Quail. 



Peanut Brittle. 
1 cupful granulated sugar. % cupful unshelled peanuts. 

V2 cupful hot water. 

Shell peanuts, cut or break into small pieces. Sprinkle on well 
buttered pan. INIelt sugar in water and cook without stirring until 
it turns brown. Then pour over nuts. 

Marion McArthur. 



Panoche. 

■1 cupfuls brown sugar. 2 cupfuls chopped walnuts or 

1 cupfuls cream or rich milk. mixed nuts. 

Butter size of an egg. 

Boil sugar and cream until it makes a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water, then add butter, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, and the 
chopped nuts, and beat until creamy. Spread on buttered plate and 
when cool mark in squares. A little soda added to the milk will 
prevent its curdling. 

Anna Harrington. 



Candied Orange Peel. 

Rind of 3 good-si/ed oranges. Peel loose white from rind. Slice 
rind into narrow strips; soak over nisrht in cold water; drain. Cover 
with fresh water and boil until tender. Drain. Add 1 cupful gran- 
ulated sugar; simmer until sugar is absorbed. Rind will be trans- 
parent. Remove from fire. Roll at once in granulated sugar, % 
cupful. This receipt will make one pint orange peel. 

Emily Coe. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTE 115 



MEAT SUBSTITUTE 

Nut Loaf or Meat Substitute. 

2 cups of whole wheat well 1 egg. 

cooked. A little salt, sage and onion to 

1 cup of bread crumbs. taste. 

1 cup of ground nuts. 

Mix all together and form in a loaf, bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve with tomato dressing. 

Tomato Dressing. 
A little onion browned in one tablespoonful of butter. Add a 
cup and a half of strained tomato juice; thicken with flour and 
serve. 

Lida H. Hardy. 



116 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Weights and Measures. 

4 cupfuls of liquid, 1 qt. 3 eupfuls of meal, 1 lb. 

4 cupfuls of flour, 1 lb. 1 scant qt. of flour, 1 lb. 

2 cupfuls of solid butter, 1 lb. 1 generous pt. of liquid, 1 lb. 

2 cupfuls of granulated sugar, 2 rounded tablespoonfuls powd- 

1 lb. ered sugar, 1 oz. 

2% cupfuls of powdered sugar, 1 heaping tablespoonful of granu- 

1 lb. lated sugar, 1 oz. 



HELPFUL HINTS 

How to V/ash Windows. 
Purchase a large chamois skin, the 10 cent size at the 10 cent 
store will answer the purpose, and soak it in luke warm water till 
soft. Have the water luke warm, using no soap or powder, and 
wash the windows. Wring the chamois skin as dry as possible and 
wipe glass. 

Mrs. W. L. Warriner. 



To Restore Window Glass. 

To restore the transparency of window glass that has become 
dingy by exposure to the elements, rub with dilute muriatic acid, 1 
part of acid to 10 parts of water, and polish with a moist cloth 
dipped in whiting. 

If the juice of a lemon or any acid fruit has taken the color 
from gown or apron, it may be restored by touching the spot with 
household ammonia. If soda or the like has caused the same trouble, 
touch with vinegar. 



Carpet Cleaning Receipt. 

4 oz. borax. 2 oz. powdered alum. 

8 oz. sal soda. 1 cake white soap. 

Dissolve in % gal. of water for yo hr. Add 3^2 gal. hot water; 
stand until cool and thick and rub on with small brush and scrape 
off with thin board, after which wipe off with cloth wrung out of 
warm water. 



A fine pudding sauce can be made of a glass of jelly melted and 
thickened with a little cornstarch; add a small piece of melted but- 
ter if liked. 



HELPFUL HINTS 117 



Solution for Washday. 

For an easy washday without the trouble of running a washing 
machine, bending over a wash-board or the expense of compounds, 
try the following : 

6 heaping teaspoonfuls of lye. II/2 of salt peter. 
3 of powdered borax. 

Dissolve in 3 gallons of soft water. For an ordinary washing 
use from 1 to 1^/2 pints of the solution. 

Mrs. J. A. Davidson. 



Some Small Economies. 

Put your stale bread crumbs through the meat chopper, place 
in a glass jar, tie a thin cloth over the top so as not to entirely 
exclude the air. Crumbs are more easily used than flour in thick- 
ening vegetables or other dishes where only a little thickening is 
required. In very juicy pies also the crumbs have an advantage 
over flour; sprinkle crumbs lightly just before the sugar is added, 
then add small bits of butter and place the upper crust. 

Thoroughly wash left over celery leaves, dry, place in a paper 
bag for use in soups, etc. ; or, rubbed through a sieve, they make a 
desirable flavor for pressed meats, croquettes, etc. 

When preparing pressed chicken do not throw away the bones, 
skin and cartilage, put these back into the kettle, cover well with 
cold water, boil an hour or more, strain, salt and set away for the 
foundation of tomorrow's vegetable soup. 

In these days of high priced meats, it is desirable to utilize the 
left overs. Take the bits of meat left from dinner, be it beef, pork 
or fowl ; put through the chopper, place in a cooking dish, add cold 
water in quantity according to the amount of meat, add any gravy 
and bits of dressing you may have, and if meat is lacking in fat, add 
butter to give desired richness. Sprinkle in some bread crumbs, 
place on stove and boil long enough to mix and thicken sufficiently, 
(not too thick,) stirring the while. If desired, flavor with sage or 
celery. Pour into mould. Let stand until cold. When you wish 
to serve, turn out, cut in slices and you have an appetizing dish of 
pressed meat. You will be surprised at the quantity which a few 
bits of meat will thus produce. 

(Above are some personal deductions.) 

Mrs. Hostutter. 



118 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Table linen that has become yellow, may be whitened by placing 
in cold water with a sliced lemon, then bring to a boil. If one 
lemon is not sufficient add more and continue to boil -until white. 

To mend china, make a very thick solution of gumarabic and 
water, stir into it plaster of paris until it becomes a paste. Apply 
with a brush to the broken edges and stick them together. In 
three days the article cannot be broken in the same place. The 
whiteness of this cement makes it doubly valuable. 



To remove mildcAV from cloth let lay in sour milk and salt. 

To take ink out of linen, dip the ink spot in pure melted tallow ; 
then wash out the tallow and the ink will come out with it. 

To preserve bouquets, put a little salt-peter in the water you 
use for bouquets and the flowers will live for a fortnight. 

When ink has been spilled on the carpet, rub the spot with lemon 
cut in two. Follow with a cloth wrung out of warm water. It 
never fails to remove spot. 



To prevent the juice from boiling out of pies, place a strip of 
wet muslin about an inch wide around the edge of the pie, half 
over and half under. 

In stitching thin goods, place a piece of paper underneath to 
prevent puckering. 

To keep embroidery on underwear from fraying before worn 
out, stitch on the machine close to the edge. It is easily done, not 
noticeable, and prevents scallops looking ragged until the garments 
are worn out. 



To clean and polish varnished wood surface, rub with a cloth 
which has beea dipped in a solution made of equal parts of cider 
vinegar and turpentine and wrung dry. 

When boiling eggs wet the shell thoroughly in cold water be- 
fore you put them in the boiling water and they will not crack. 

To remove the odor from cooking utensils which have been used 
for cooking cabbage, onions or other strong vegetables, place them 
bottom side up over salt placed on a hot stove. In a few minutes 
the pans will be sweet. 



HELPFUL HINTS 119 



To clean spots from carpet, rub thoroughly with bread crumbs. 

Camphor gum put in drawers will keep away rats and mice. 

When baking potatoes, put a small pan of water in the oven and 
they will bake much more quickly with less waste to the potatoes. 

Salt in the oven under baking tins will prevent bread or cake 
from burning. 

A quick way to gather on the machine is to lengthen the stitches, 
run a straight seam across the goods, then draw up the straight 
thread until you have the desired fulness. 

To remove grass stains from clothing, rub thoroughly with mo- 
lasses and let stand an hour or so before washing. 

Mrs. W. L. Quail. 



Many think the use of vinegar on raw tomatoes unnecessary. 
Any one dispensing with it for a time will find the natural acid so 
fine in flavor, that the acid of vinegar seems crude by comparison. 

A small dish of charcoal placed in the refrigerator will help to 
keep articles of food sweet and wholesome, as charcoal is a good 
disinfectant. 

Do not allow the cogs of a Dover or rotary egg beater to be put 
in the dish pan. Wash the lower part carefully and dry before 
putting away. If the cogs are allowed to get wet the grease will 
come off on the hands and drying towel and the beater will wear 
out in half the usual time. 

Soak New Brooms in strong hot salt water before using; this 
toughens the bristles and makes the broom last longer. 

To remove ink stains from white goods, use hydrogen peroxide. 

Most stains in white goods, even of ink, can be removed by 
wetting in kerosene before the article is put in water. 



DEC 9 1913 



120 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



Tke Flour tkat Las always carried a "Money-Back 'Guarantee 



PERFECTION 

FLODR 




There is more tnan a 
name to 

"PERFECTION" 
FLOUR 

and its constantly-in- 
creasing sales attest 
that tne -women or To- 
peka have round it out 



AT YOUR GROCERS 



Manufactured and Guaranteed by 

THE KAW MILLING CO. 

TOPEKA, KANSAS 



, 1 



ADVERTISING SECTION 121 



Not Just ''Hams \ But 

BANQUET 
HAMS 

Careful Selection and 
Skilrul Curing nave made 

BANQUET HAMS 

popular on tke Breakfast 
Table. Tkey are like 

O.K. LARD 

a Pure-Food Product from 

The Cleanest Packing-House 
m America 

Ckas. Wolff Packing Co. 



TOPEKA, KANSAS 



121 



CENTRAL, CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 




COLLEGE HILL BREAD 

Is another style of loaf we make, 
the well-known quality of which 
has made College Hill the most 
popular bakery in Topeka. The 
Sun-Lit Bakery on College Hill. 



Xhe Bread 

\\^itnout 

A Fault! 

It's as clean and pure 
as the morning dew 

Always wrapped in a 
dainty waxed wrapper at 
the bakery, which is as 
clean as a Dutch Kitchen 

We cordially invite you 
to visit our bakery and 
see how this bread is 
made. 

The place is known as 
the most sanitary and the 

Sunlit Bakery on 
College Hill 




We neartily indorse every receipt in tnis book BUT 
YOU don t need a receipt for BREAD, -wnen you can buy 
"College Hiir' or "Kleen Maid" Bread. 

Tke College Hill Bakery 

G. L. JORDAN, Proprietor 



ADVERTISING SECTION 



123 



«) •> 



"ToPEKA Mai 

COFFEE 

Packed m Parafmed Bags to save tne cost 
or cans ana you get tne airrerence m corree 

18 Ounces For the Price or a Pound 

A Hig'n-Graae Xopeka Pi'oauct 



AT ALL GROCERS 



TOPEKA 



Roasted and Packed by 

DAVIS MERCANTILE CO. 



KANSAS 




No Matter How Good the 
Receipt 

or how good the flour, if you 
haven't a good oven, your 
baking is not perfect. 



has the 

lost Perfect Oven Made 

We are the exclusive agents 
for this range in Topeka. 

We also have a full line of 

WEAREVER ALUMINUM WARE 

which adds to the pleasure of 
cooking. 



TOPEKA HARD^VARE CO. 

706 Kansas Avenue 706 



124 



CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



^UVCr L6&I ORKSSING 

has won thousands of friends 

through it purity, its rich creamy 

texture, and its peculiar, satisfying zest. 



Order it to-morrow. 




Ask your Grocer 



The Dressing 
without 
Olive Oil 



Smile a little^ 
Help a little. 
Push a little. 

The world needs YOU. 

Work a little, 
Wait a little, 
Hope a little. 
And don^t get blue. 



INDEX 125 



INDEX 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

Frontispiece .... Central Congregational Church 

Portrait Mrs. Roy B. Guild 

Portrait Mrs. Charles M. Sheldon 

Portrait Rev. Roy B. Guild, D.D., Pastor 

with talk, "How to Eat a Good Dinner" 

Portrait Rev. Charles M. Sheldon 

with talk, "Moral Factor in Good Cooking" 

Group Division No. 1 with names 

Illustration The Parsonage 

Group Division No. 3 with names 

Illustration The Church Dining Room 

Illustration "Correct Way to Set a Table" 

with talk by Miss Caroline Morton 
Illustration . . Dr. Sheldon's Residence and Study 

Group Division No. 4 with names 

Group, Division No. 2 with officers Woman Society 

Group Division No. 2 at Work 

Group .Division No. 5 

Illustration Preparing a Church Luncheon 

Illustration Thank-Off ering Supper 

Index continued on Page 126 



CHC 9 1913 



126 CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH COOK BOOK 



RECEIPTS 

Page 

Breads, Sandwiches, Etc 17 to 27 

Salads and Salad Dressings 28 to 37 

Fish 38 to 40 

Chicken 41 to 43 

Eggs and Omelets 44 to 47 

Beverages 48 

Vegetables 49 to 56 

Pies 57 to 62 

Cakes and Cookies 63 to 83 

Puddings and Sauces 84 to 92 

Meats 93 to 98 

Canning 99-106 

Soups 107 

Souffles 108 

Desserts 109-110 

Candies 111-114 

Meat Substitute 115 

Helpful Hints 116-120 

ADVERTISEMENTS 

Perfection Flour— Kaw Milling Co 120 

Wolff Pack'g Co. -Banquet Hams-O.K. Lard 121 
College Hill Bakery- Kleen Maid Bread ... 122 

Davis Merc. Co.-Topeka Maid Coffee 123 

Topeka Hardware Co.— South Bend Ranges 123 
Kuehne Preserving Co.— Silver Leaf Pickles 124 



