 



W Si 



CtTTg^'' 









UNIVERSITY @F 
ILLINOIS UiRARY 

AT URBANA CHAMPAIGN 

OAK STRUT 

LIBRARY fA6JUf Y 



CORNER BOOK SHOP 

102 FOURTH AVENUE 
HEW TOOK 3, H.I. 



Grayville 



Cook Book 



1912-1913 




Published by 

The Ladies of the M. £. Church 

GRAYVILLE. ILLINOIS 






The old Anglo Saxon idea of the lady or the loaf giver still holds 
good, though conditions have changed; there is no higher avocation than 
being priestess of the home, looking to the health and happiness of the 
family. The quotation "Whom God hath joined in matrimony, ill-cooked 
joints and ill-cooked potatoes have very often put asunder," is very apt. 

In giving this book to the public we, the members of this committee, 
have endeavored to assemble tried and tested recipes that would meet all 
the needs of the most discriminating housewife. We desire to express our 
gratitude to the friends who have contributed to the success of this work by 
responding so promptly to our requests for recipes. 

Mrs. George Mathews 
Mrs. J. B. Jolly 
Mrs. S. P. Ronalds 
Mrs. Charles Melrose. 



"See that your kitchen fire be bright, 

And your hands be neat and skilled, 
For the love of man oft takes its flight 
If his stomach be not well filled." 



Index 



Beef (Roast) 19-24 

Biscuit 49-50 

Bread 44-51 

Bouillon 12 

Cakes 53-66 

Candies 104-106 

Canned Fruit 98-99 

Cheese. 95-97 

Chicken 26-29 

Cocktail 15 

Cookies 67-71 

Doughnuts 71-72 

Fish 13-14 

Fruit as Remedies 107-108 

Frozen Desserts 93-95 

Game 25-29 

Ginger Bread 72-73 

Ham 21-24 

Hints on Serving 9-10 

Hot Cross-buns % 46 

Miscellaneous 107-109 

Oysters. 15-17 

Parker House Rolls 46 

Pickles 99-104 

Pies 74-82 

Pork (Roast) 19 

Puddings 83-92 

Roasts : 18-24 

Salads 30-38 

Salmon 13-14 

Sandwiches 97-98 

Short Cake 81-82 

Soup 11-12 

Steak 18-21 

Turkey (Roast) 25 

Vegetable 39-43 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 9 



Hints on Serving 

We have come to know that the pleasure of eating any article of 
food is enhanced by the manner in which it is served; thus, that it is 
that we are interested in the best approved ways of laying the table 
and serving meals. 

Be the meal what it may, the table is laid in two ways, i. e., either 
for serving the food from the table, or from the side table. Serving a 
meal from the side table calls for the assistance of at least one capable 
waitress. In either case the laying of the table, as far as the " cover" 
is concerned is the same. 

The term "cover" includes a plate, tumbler, napkin, and such 
silver as is needed by one person, in partaking of the various dishes of 
the meal, laid in suitable space. The plate occupies the center of this 
space ; at the right of the plate the knives are disposed in order of use, 
the one farthest from the place being the first used. Beyond the knives 
are disposed the soup spoon (bowl upward) and fork for oysters, when 
these articles are included in the menu. At the point of the knife the 
tumbler is placed, and on the plate, the napkin, neatly folded. When 
the plate holds oysters, melon, fruit, cocktail etc., the napkin is laid 
beyond the forks. At the left of the plate the forks, tines upwards, are 
disposed in the order of use, the one farthest from the plate being the 
one first needed. For other meals than dinner, a butter plate, or a 
bread and butter plate with " spreader" across one side, may be used; 
this plate stands above the forks and a little to the right of them. 

When the meal is served from the side table, the space within the 
covers is reserved for flowers with possibly a dish or two of bonbons, 
which serve as part of the decoration. After jellies, pickles, olives, 
rolls, wafers, etc., have been passed, they are returned to their respective 
place on the sideboard, as no food other than that on individual plates, 
appears upon the table. The waitress keeps an eye upon the plates 
and is quick to note and supply the needs of any one. 

When the meal is served from the side table, a plate should always 
occupy the center of the cover space until the table is cleared for des- 
sert. When the meal is served from the table, less space is given to 
floral decoration; the dishes, as roast, fish, salad or main dish of the 
dessert, are set between the "cover" of host or hostess, and the decora- 
tions, that the portions may be made ready and put in place on indi- 
vidual plates by the host or hostess. Jellies, olives, bread, butter and 
water may be given a place on the table, but all articles belonging to one 
course, as cucumbers served with fish, must be removed from the table 
before the next course is put in place. That is, no articles should be 
upon the table save those pertaining to the course in progress. 



10 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

SERVING MEALS. 

The guest of honor sits at the right hand of the person who sits at 
the head of the table (the seat farthest from the entrance to the dining 
room). It is quite customary to serve each course to the guest of honor 
first, but it is preferable to serve first, alternately, the guest of honor 
and the guest at the left of the person who sits at the foot of the table. 

SIDE AT WHICH DISHES ARE SET DOWN, PRESENTED AND 

REMOVED. 

All china and silver are set down -and removed from the right of 
the individual served. Dishes from which one is to help himself, (as 
bread, olives, bonbons, etc.), are presented at the left hand. When 
the meal is served from the side table, the cover or service plate is not 
removed with the oyster or soup plate, which in turn is set down upon 
it, but is left in place until after the entree, when both service and 
entree plates are replaced by the plate for the roast. 

When the meal is served from the table, the maid brings a plate in 
each hand and sets one down before the dish which is to be served. The 
host or hostess puts a portion of food upon the plate, and the maid 
takes it up, sets down the other plate, and carries the first to the one 
for whom it is prepared. She then brings another plate to be set down 
when the second has been made ready. Piles of plates are considered 
a breach of good service and should not appear upon the table. 

After a course has been finished the silver is first taken up on a 
tray, then the plates are removed, one at a time, or one in each hand 
of the waitress. The same order holds good when removing carvers 
and platters. In removing dishes and silver, begin with the one first 
served. 



E. A. GREEN 

Physician and Surgeon 
GRAYVILLE, ILL. Both Phones 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 11 



Soups 



One morning in the garden bed 
The onion and the carrot said, 

Unto the parsley group: 
"Oh, when shall we three meet again, 

In thunder, lightning, hail or rain?" 
"Alas!" replied in tones of pain, 

The parsley, "In the soup." 

TOMArO SOUP. 

One pint ripe tomatoes, a pinch of soda, butter the size of an egg, 
one quart rich sweet milk. Put the tomatoes in a saucepan, cook, and 
then rub through a sieve, return to the fire, add the soda, skim off the 
yellow scum, then add the butter, salt and pepper to taste; then turn 
into this the milk, which has been previously heated, let all boil up once; 
serve immediately. — Mrs. Addie Melrose. 

TOMATO CREAM SOUP. 

One quart tomatoes run through a flour sifter, one quart water, 
one saltspoon salt, one-half cup rice. Boil together until rice is done 
(about one hour) add one teaspoon soda, then skim. Then add one 
pint milk and let boil; add half cup butter in which two tablespoons 
flour have been creamed. — Mary Melrose. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Three eggs, three tablespoons new milk, and flour to make stiff 
dough; roll as thin as possible, put where it will dry one hour 
or more, then roll up and cut as thin as possible; drop in a few at a 
time. After all are in broth, let cook twenty minutes. — Mrs. E. Hun- 
singer. 

NOODLES. 

Five eggs, salt, flour until very stiff; roll out thin and cut very 
thin.— Mrs. E. E. St. John. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Rub two tablespoons flour and butter together and heat a pint of 
milk; stir in gradually, then add celery stock. Season with salt and 



12 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

pepper, a little cayenne pepper. Cut celery into inch lengths and 
cover with one and one-half pints cold water and cook about three 
hours or longer, then strain through a cheesecloth. This stock may be 
kept indefinitely. Season with onion if desired. (For six persons.) 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Make a good stock of beef and ham bones. Soak a pint of split 
peas over night, add to stock, a bunch of celery leaves and parsley, a 
little onion chopped fine, and boil until peas are dissolved. This makes 
a good thick soup. — Mrs. E. J. Briswalter. 

BOUILLON. 

Boil beef with one-quarter cup of carrots, celery, sweet pepper, 
Spanish onion and two tomatoes, eight cloves, salt and pepper to 
taste. Strain stock through three layers of cheesecloth. Cool and 
remove all fat. Strain again. Serve cold or hot. If cold, with cracked 
ice. 

CHICKEN CONSOMME. 

In eight cups of chicken stock, without fat, simmer one -quarter 
cup each of celery and onion, season highly. Strain, add sprigs of 
parsley. Serve. 



J. A. HOELZLE 

Saddles and Harness 

Grayville. - Illinois 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 13 



Fish 



Master; I marvel how the fishes live in the sea! 

Why, as men do a'land; the great ones eat up the little ones. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

One teacup of grated codfish, add two cups of mashed potatoes 
seasoned; make into balls the size of an egg; roll in flour, then brown 
them in hot butter or lard and keep hot until ready to serve. — Mrs. 
Cora Vincent. 

BAKED MACKEREL. 

One or more mackerel, wash well and soak twelve hours, then wash 
again and roll in flour, pepper it lightly, then lay in pan, and to each 
mackerel add one teaspoon butter, one pint water, and put in hot oven 
and bake about twenty minutes, then serve on slices of bread toasted 
a light brown and buttered. 

TO COOK MACKEREL WELL. 

Select medium or small mackerel; wash well, cover with one and 
one-half or two quarts cold water, let come to boiling point, then pour 
all the water off and refill pan with hot water, set on one side of stove 
until everything is ready for breakfast, place 'fish on platter, add a few 
pieces of butter and pepper lightly. Serve with poached eggs on 
toast. — Mrs. J. S. Lindsay. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

Mash the yolks of six hard boiled eggs with one teaspoon salt, 
one-fourth teaspoon dry mustard, a pinch of red pepper, tablespoon 
butter, one tablespoon flour, one cup milk with one-half cup cream. 
Put in double boiler and cook until thick, add lobster and chopped 
whites of eggs. Let this cook up good. Pour in one-half glass of 
sherry wine just before serving. — Besse Vincent. 

SALMON CROQUETTES. 

Drain the liquor from a small can of salmon, remove the bones 
and chop very fine. Boil a cup of milk and stir in a tablespoonful of 
flour rubbed smooth in two tablespoonfuls of butter, add chopped 
salmon and boil one minute. Stir in two well-beaten eggs and remove 
from the fire. When cold make into croquettes, dip in beaten egg, 
roll in bread crumbs and fry. — Mrs. Madden. 



14 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon, remove the oil and pinch up fine, one-half cup 
fine bread crumbs, yolks of four eggs, well beaten; four tablespoons 
melted butter, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one level teaspoon poultry- 
dressing, one level teaspoon finely chopped parsley, whites of four eggs, 
well beaten; mix in the order given, and steam in a mold one hour. 
Serve hot or cold. — Mrs. E. M. Jennings. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon, one-half cup cracker crumbs, or stale bread 
crumbs and crackers mixed, three eggs, well beaten; two tablespoons 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mix all well together and steam one 
hour in a buttered bowl or dish, keeping well covered. When cold, 
turn out of bowl. Slice thin and garnish with parsley or thinly sliced 
lemon. — Mrs. J. C. Harmon. 

SALMON LOAF. 

One can salmon, eight crackers, four eggs, one medium-sized onion, 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Sauce. — Two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, one coffee 
cup milk, salt and pepper. Drain and pick salmon to pieces and roll 
crackers, grind onion, and egg unbeaten. Pack in buttered mold and 
boil one hour. For the sauce, blend the melted butter and flour thor- 
oughly; add milk, stirring constantly until thickened. Turn salmon on 
plate, garnish with parsley and hard boiled eggs. With each slice of 
the salmon serve a spoonful of sauce. — Mrs. Sam Blair. 

CREAMED SALMON. 

One-half pound can salmon, one-half cup sweet milk, one-fourth 
teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon butter, one-fourth teaspoon salt; mix 
well and serve with sliced lemons. Serve while warm. — Mrs. M. 
Eastwood. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can salmon free from bone and oil, three stalks celery chopped 
fine, whites of three hard boiled eggs chopped, mix all together. Use 
mayonnaise dressing. 

BAKED SALMON. 

Remove carefully one can of salmon, free from oil ; put in buttered 
pan, pour in dressing made of one tablespoon of flour, one of butter and 
one cup of boiling water. Place in oven for twenty to thirty minutes. 
Remove with cake turner to platter; serve with two hard boiled eggs, 
and one lemon thinly sliced. — Mrs. J. B. Jolly. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 15 



Oysters 



Why, then, the world's mine oyster 
Which I with sword will open. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Place five or six oysters into each glass. For twelve cocktails 
allow seven teaspoons each of prepared horse-radish, tomato catsup 
and vinegar, ten teaspoons of lemon juice and one of tabasco sauce. 
Thoroughly mix this dressing and put an equal quantity into each 
glass. Both oysters and dressing should be very cold. — Mrs. R. S. 
P runty. 

OYSTER PIE. 

One pint oysters makes two pies. Line two pie tins with pie 
crust, put in layer of oysters to cover crust, salt, pepper and lumps of 
butter, then over this two finely chopped hard boiled eggs to each 
pie. Bake with top crust. — Mrs. N. E. Roberts. 

MOCK FRIED OYSTERS. 

Chop half pound round steak and cove oysters from one can, mix 
with one egg, well beaten; season with salt and pepper, add half cup 
of liquor from oysters, thicken with rolled cracker crumbs, make into 
cakes the size of fresh oysters, roll in beaten egg and cracker crumbs, 
then fry in hot lard a delicate brown. — Flora E. Reed. 

CHAFING DISH OYSTERS. 

Stew a bunch of celery until tender. Drain liquor from can of 
mushrooms and add them to the celery and let them cook a few min- 
utes, put in generous piece of butter, then add a quart of oysters; season 
with cayenne or black pepper and salt. Thicken with cracker crumbs 
and lastly add a little cream. Serve very hot. — Mrs. Pearl W. Henkle. 

FILLING FOR OYSTER PATTIES. 

Rub together until smooth, one raw egg and two tablespoons of 
flour, gradually add one pint of cold sweet cream. Cook in double 
vessel until thick, stirring constantly before removing from the stove. 



16 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

Add large lump of butter and the oysters which have been heated first, 
enough to ruffle the edges, a small quantity of the heated liquor may 
be added also. Fill pat tie shells and serve at once. — Mrs. George 
Hodson, Evansville, Indiana. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain oysters well, and dry them with a napkin. Have a griddle 
hot and well buttered, season the oysters, lay them on the griddle and 
brown on both sides. Serve them on a hot plate with plenty of but- 
ter. — Mrs. S. P. Ronalds. 

SCRAMBLED OYSTERS. 

One quart oysters, two cups rolled crackers, three eggs, beaten, 
one cup good cream, pepper and salt. Put two tablespoons butter in 
a skillet and let simmer, then put in the oyster batter and do as with 
scrambled eggs. Serve at once very hot. — Edith Martin. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Roll large oysters in cracker crumbs. Make a mixture of one 
beaten egg, two tablespoons of milk, salt and pepper. Dip the oysters 
in this and then again in cracker crumbs. Wrap each oyster in a thin 
slice of bacon, fastening it with a toothpick. Put in a hot oven and 
bake until the bacon is brown. — Edith Martin. 

OYSTER PIE. 

One quart oysters, one pint cracker crumbs, one cup milk, butter, 
salt and pepper. Bake twenty minutes in two crusts. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain one quart of large oysters ; roll one pound of water crackers ; 
beat light three eggs, and add to the eggs one-half cup sweet milk. In 
a separate dish put your rolled crackers, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
and about two teaspoons yeast powder. Mix thoroughly; dip the 
oysters, one by one, first in the crackers, then in egg, and again in 
crackers, place on a dish ready for cooking. (Fix everything before 
beginning to fry.) Have ready enough lard in frying-pan, a quantity 
such that your oysters will not touch bottom, and hot enough to cook 
them quickly. In a few minutes they will be as plump as doughnuts, 
and ready to serve. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take nice fresh oysters, drain, roll in meal and fry in hot lard and 
butter, half and half, until a golden brown. — Mrs. A. L. Patterson. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 17 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Choose the extra selects, as they are large and plump. For one 
and one-half dozen oysters, two eggs, one-fourth teaspoon pepper, a 
tablespoon salt and one pint rolled cracker crumbs will be required. 
Use one-half the salt and pepper in the cracker crumbs and the other 
half to season the oysters. The eggs should be well beaten, and the 
oysters should be spread on a towel and drained well. Fry in equal 
quantities butter and lard, which should be deep enough to prevent 
the oyster from touching bottom; and very hot. Dip the seasoned 
oysters in the eggs, then in the cracker crumbs, then in the eggs and 
again in the cracker crumbs. Now drop into the hot fat and handle 
with a spoon, not probing with a fork. Serve at once, as they lose 
their flavor by standing. — Mrs. Charles Melrose. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter an earthen dish, fill with alternate layers of crushed crackers 
and oysters. Moisten with milk and a little of the liquor. Season 
with salt, pepper and butter. Use crackers for the bottom and top 
layers. Pour a cup of rich milk and pour over all. Use about one 
quart of oysters. Bake one hour. 



AUTOMOBILE SUPPLIES 

TIRES, GREASES and ACCESSORIES 
AUTO TRIPS MADE 

LOUIS FRICK, Jr. Main St. Garage 

M. L. Whitney and Co. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

Concrete Blocks, Brick and Fence Posts 

Independent Tel. 73-1 Cumberland Tel. 137 

GRAYVILLE, ILLINOIS 



18 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 



Meats 



No life worth living ever comes to good 
If always nourished on the self same food. 

MEAT FOR SABBATH DINNER. 

Pie made Saturday. Cut two pounds round steak in fine pieces, 
stew well, add thinly sliced potatoes and two onions, season well. Put 
on an upper crust of pastry. Bake partly on Saturday and warm over 
on Sunday. — Mrs. Wm. Tilroe. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE AND MEAT. 

Steam one cup of rice in three cups boiling water with one tea- 
spoon salt, one cup steamed rice, two cups cold meat, salt, pepper, 
celery salt, a little chopped onion, two tablespoons cracker crumbs, 
one egg, one cup hot water or soup stock. Line the bottom of the 
casserole with rice, then the meat; add the rest of the rice as a top layer. 

SIMPLIFIED. 

Place alternately layers of cold rice and meat in a buttered pan 
and bake. 

BAKED VEAL. 

A slice of veal from the round, four large-sized tomatoes, or one 
cup canned tomatoes, one onion, one tablespoon parsley, one teaspoon 
salt and a sprinkle of pepper. Sprinkle bottom of baking dish with 
some sliced onions; place veal and spread over with melted butter, then 
put a little more onion, then tomatoes, cut in small pieces. Bake one 
and one-half hours; thicken sauce, if not quite thick enough. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

Make a rich crust as for dumplings ; roll thin and cut in squares ; then 
cut your steak, previously pounded and salted, into pieces smaller than 
the squares of crust and enclose each piece of meat in crust, a square 
above and one below (pie fashion) . Put in a baking pan and pour over 
it boiling gravy, made of milk (or water) and flour, and bake one hour 
and a half. If your meat is already cooked, half an hour is sufficient. 
If the meat has little fat, a lump of butter added to the gravy improves 
it. — Mary Cadwell Barnett. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 19 

ROAST PORK AND RICE. 

Put a tablespoon of butter in a covered roaster and brown meat 
all over, on top of stove; then season well with salt and pepper, and 
flour well. For a four-pound roast, put one and one-half or two teacups 
of washed rice. Pour boiling water over all, and place in oven. Cook 
until tender. — Mrs. J. B. Jolly. 

POT ROAST. 

Place a kettle over the fire, put into it a piece of suet as large as 
your hand, and let it render well, don't let scorch ; take out the cracklin 
and put in two or three pounds of porterhouse roast, turn often until a 
nice brown, then set the pot on top of the stove and cook slowly for 
three hours, by adding one pint of water at a time, when needed. Keep 
covered well. One-half hour before serving, add a small onion chopped 
fine, or one large ripe tomato. Season to taste, and add flour to make 
the gravy a little thick. Have from one to one and one-half pints of 
gravy when done. — Mrs. Cora Vincent. 

SWISS STEAK. 

Take four or five pounds of thick round steak. Pound into this 
as much flour as it will take; brown well both sides in skillet in half 
lard and half butter. Slice over this two small or one large onion, one 
large tomato, four tablespoons of canned tomatoes. Pour into this as 
much water as the skillet will hold. Let simmer slowly for two hours. 
Keep closely covered. One hour before done sprinkle with pepper and 
salt. Add water to gravy, if needed. 

SWISS STEAK. 

One pound round steak, salt and pepper; dredge well with flour 
and beat, fold together and beat again, dredging with flour each time 
folded. Fry brown in a small amount of fat; when brown add one pint 
boiling water; cover and cook thirty minutes, adding more water as 
needed. — Nancy Huebner. 

STEAK AND MUSHROOMS. 

Take a beef tenderloin; have a skillet smoking hot, place steak in 
skillet; when about done pour over this about one dozen mushrooms 
that have been sliced and soaked in salt water and taken out and rolled 
in flour; then season meat with butter and lard, salt and pepper to taste. 
When done, make a brown gravy and serve while hot. 



20 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

SPANISH BEEFSTEAK. 

Four pounds of steak (round), cut two inches thick, stick a few 
cloves in the top, sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour, and place in 
oven, after pouring enough boiling water in pan to baste from time to 
time. Let cook about one hour, then slice onions (one-half inch thick) 
all over steak, seasoning and basting. When onions are tender pour 
on a can of tomatoes. Do not use all the liquor of tomatoes. When 
done and meat is tender, slice cheese thin over top and put in oven 
until cheese melts. Remove meat to platter, and make gravy by thick- 
ening with flour. — Alleen Wilson. 

HASH. 

Cold roast or steak shredded, free from gristle and skin. Cook a 
finely chopped onion in water. When done put in your meat and 
thicken with a little flour and butter, rubbed together. A little cold 
gravy or soup stock helps. Season; serve with croutons or on slices of 
toast. — Mrs. J. B. Jolly. 

BREADED CHOPS. 

Salt and pepper chops; dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs 
and fry in hot lard or butter. Garnish with parsley. — Mary Crawford. 

BRAISED TONGUE. 

Boil and salt a tongue till tender (two or three hours) skin and remove 
fat. Cream two tablespoons of flour, two tablespoons butter, then 
stir in two quarts of the stock. Cut the following vegetables into dice 
and add one carrot, one onion, one potato, one turnip, one stock of 
celery, five cents worth of fresh parsley; add two bay leaves, one table- 
spoon of catsup, one tablespoon Worcester sauce, pepper and salt to 
taste. Stir all of this until it boils. Put the tongue in baking dish and 
pour stock around it and bake two hours, basting often. — John Martin. 

MINT SAUCE FOR ROAST LAMB. 

Six teaspoons chopped mint, three teaspoons granulated sugar 
and one-half pint vinegar (if vinegar is strong, make one-half water). 
Place the freshly chopped mint in a bowl; heat the vinegar and sugar 
together to the boiling point, and pour it over a well beaten egg; beat 
constantly until it begins to thicken. Season with salt and pepper 
and pour this over the mint. — Mrs. Charles Melrose. 

ENGLISH MINT SAUCE. 

Chop or mince fine a handful or more of fresh mint leaves. Place 
in bowl and cover with sugar, let stand over night. In morning add 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 21 

good vinegar (not too strong) and let stand all day, and it is ready for 
use. I do not strain the vinegar from it, but you can if you prefer. 
Will keep a long time in bottles. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

One pint of cream or milk, one tablespoon butter, if cream is 
used, two if you use milk, two tablespoons flour, one-half teaspoon salt 
and one-half saltspoon of pepper. Heat the cream in double boiler. 
Melt the butter in cup until it bubbles. Add the dry flour and beat 
smooth, add pepper and salt. Stir into boiling cream, cook five min- 
utes, add grated cheese just before serving. 

NUT DRESSING. 

One and one-half cups of bread crumbs, two tablespoons butter, 
melt butter, add water and throw over crumbs, salt and pepper to 
taste. Add an onion cut finely, a little sage and a cup of chopped 
peanuts. Place dressing on top of roast to give flavor. Especially 
fine for beef or pork. — Edith Martin. 

BROILED HAM AND POACHED EGGS. 

Cut slices of boiled ham of equal size; broil on a gridiron over a 
clear fire. Lay on hot dish; on each lay a poached egg, neatly trimmed, 
and serve. 

STEAK ROLLS. 

Take very thin slices of round steak and cut them in strips two 
inches wide and four inches long. Scatter over them a little salt, some 
chili, parsley and onion chopped fine; roll the strips tightly and fasten 
with toothpicks. Dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs, and fry 
in a pan containing plenty of hot fat. 

MEAT BALLS. 

This is a good way to use up cold meat which has been left over. 
Chop the meat very fine, and to every three cups add one egg, well 
beaten, a small onion, salt and pepper to taste, also a little sage. Mix 
all together and make into small cakes, roll in flour and fry in hot lard. 

CHIPPED BEEF. 

Shredded beef, parboiled, if any salt. Boil a few minutes in milk, 
thicken with a little flour and butter rubbed together. Add pepper 
and butter. Serve with scrambled eggs on the platter. — Mata Newton. 



22 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

CREAMED CHIPPED BEEF. 

Put a tablespoon of butter in a hot frying pan; put in the chipped 
beef and brown. Add one cup of hot water, cover and let simmer, 
while you mix the thickening (one tablespoon flour in a cup of rich 
milk). Add this to the beef and let it come to boil, stirring constantly. — 
Mrs. Charles Melrose. 

MEAT CAKES. 

Two cups chopped cooked meat, three tablespoons cracker crumbs, 
two eggs, two tablespoons butter, one small onion (chopped), salt and 
pepper to taste. Beat eggs light, without separating, melt butter, 
add crumbs, mix with eggs, butter and meat. Make in flat cakes and 
fry in butter or drippings. 

ROLADEN. 

(A German Dish). 

For six, take two or two and one-half pounds round steak; cut into 
pieces about five inches long and three inches wide. Place on each 
piece a thin slice of bacon and of onion, salt and pepper. Roll tightly 
and tie with a cord, roll in flour, and fry quite brown in butter. When 
done, place the rolls of meat in another kettle, just cover with water, 
and let it come to a boil. Boil about ten minutes and then let simmer 
from one and one-half to two hours. Remove the meat and cut cord. 
Make gravy with the flour left in kettle, and strain before using. — 
Mary Melrose. 

HAMBURG BEEF LOAF. 

Two and one-half pounds of beef, one and one-half pounds of pork' 
chopped fine, or ground, two eggs, one cup crackers or bread crumbs' 
one cup sweet milk, salt, pepper. Mix thoroughly and make into 
loaf; place in pan and put one pint of hot water over and bake in the 
oven an hour. Baste often. — Mrs. W. G. Wheatcroft. 

MEAT LOAF. 

Two and one-half pounds meat (ground), some fat, three well 
beaten eggs, one medium-sized onion, one-half cup flour, pepper and 
salt to suit taste; mix well; put in greased pan with one pint of water 
and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. — Mrs. I. N. Price, Little 
Rock, Ark. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 23 

NUT LOAF. 

(Substitute for Cold Meat). 

Put through food chopper one cup of English walnuts and one 
and one-half cups Brazil nuts. Mix with two well beaten eggs, two 
cups boiled rice and one cup milk. Season with salt. Pack firmly 
and bake in a well buttered pan in hot oven. — Mrs. Pearl W. Henkle. 

BOILED AND BAKED HAM. 

A twelve pound ham, one cup vinegar, one dozen cloves, one-half 
cup molasses, two bay leaves and one-half cup brown sugar. Soak 
over night in enough cold water to cover the ham. Wash and trim off 
the hard skin near the bone, put into a kettle, cover with cold water, 
add the vinegar and molasses, let it come to a boil and cook slowly 
until tender. About one-half hour to a pound should be allowed for 
boiling. When about half done add the cloves and the bay leaves. 
When done set the kettle off the stove and let the ham cool in the 
brine. When cold take it out of the water, remove the skin; put in a 
pan and sprinkle with the brown sugar and bake in a hot oven until 
it is browned. Serve in thin slices. 

SOUFFLES. 

One cup cold chopped meat. Make a cupful of white sauce cooked, 
a little minced onion, parsley, salt and pepper, two beaten egg yolks, 
cook this about three minutes. Take from fire, then fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites. Put in a buttered baking dish and bake half an' hour, 
and serve at once while it is nice and fluffy. — Mrs. E. L. Slocumb. 

HAM TOAST. 

One cup of ground or chopped ham, some fat improves the flavor. 
Blend a tablespoon of butter and one of flour, together. Add one and 
one-third cups of sweet milk, cook a little, then add ham, and whites 
of two hard boiled eggs which have been mashed with a fork. Pour 
on round slices of toast. Grate yolks of eggs over top. Garnish with 
parsley. 

FRIED BACON. 

Keep on ice, slice very thin; sear in piping hot skillet. Let every 
bit of grease drop off before putting on platter. — Mrs. J. B. Jolly. 

TO SUGAR-CURE MEAT. 

To 1000 pounds meat (pork), take sixteen quarts salt, three 
pounds brown sugar, one pound cayenne pepper, and one-quarter 



24 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

pounds saltpetre. Mix well and salt in the usual way, in a box, so 
that the brine can run off; leave just six weeks, take up and wash well 
with hot water, hang up and when perfectly dry, smoke to suit taste. 
Be sure to cover the box well to exclude air. Let meat get perfectly 
cool before salting. — George Huebner. 

CURING HAMS. 

For each hundred pounds of meat, use ten pounds salt, one-fourth 
gallon molasses, or two pounds ground sugar, five ounces saltpetre, 
four ounces black pepper (ground) one tablespoon soda. Put the 
whole into an iron kettle and boil; skin and lift out into a wooden 
vessel to cool. Having packed your hams in barrel and weighted down, 
pour on your brine. Leave them in brine from four to five weeks, 
according to size. Have them as near one size as possible, so they can all 
cure alike. It requires about four gallons of water to the hundred 
pounds. Add pepper after it has been boiled and skinned. Smoke 
with hickory wood, with a little sulphur to prevent fly. — Miss Lanter- 
tnan. 

BEEF ROAST. 

Wash and wipe dry. Place in very hot oven till seared, on both 
sides. Take from oven; salt, pepper, dredge with flour, place small 
lumps of butter on top. Pour pint of boning water in pan, cover and 
roast slowly for three hours. — Mrs. George Mathews. 



LLOYD ROTRAMMEL 

GRAYVILLE, ILLINOIS 



Agent McCabe Sanitary Drinking Fountains 
Plumbing and Heating a Specialty 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 25 



Poultry 



How blessed, how envied were our life. 
Could we but 'scape the poulterer's knife! 
But man, cursed man, on turkeys preys, 
And Christmas shortens all our days; 
Sometimes with oysters we combine, 
Sometimes assists the savory clime 
From the low peasant to the lord, 
The turkey smokes on every board. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

Dress and wash the fowl inside and out in two or three waters, 
salt and pepper the inside, fill the body and crop with dressing, dredge 
the outside with pepper and salt and thickly with flour, baste frequently. 

Stew the giblets in sauce-pan, when cooked, chop fine and add to 
the gravy. 

DRESSING. 

Four well beaten eggs, two quarts bread crumbs, one cup of melted 
butter, season to taste with pepper, salt, nutmeg and a little sage, 
moisten bread crumbs with a little boiling water. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Wash fowl inside and out with vinegar. Chop four to six large 
onions fine, add salt, pepper and a pinch of sage to onions. Fill the 
body with dressing given above at least 12 hours before baking. Just 
before putting into the oven dredge fowl with pepper, salt and flour. 
Place in the bake pan with one cup hot water. Cook in slow oven 
three and one-half or four hours. Baste frequently. — Mrs. J. W. 
Harris. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING FOR FOWL. 

If you have never tried the chestnut dressing for the turkey you 
have a new delicacy to taste. The following is a tried recipe which 
the writer has used for years with success. 

Select a quart of large chestnuts, cut a gash in one side of each 
and shake them in a pan of hot butter for a minute or two, then set 
them in a hot oven to bake for five minutes. Remove the shells and 



26 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

the inner skin and cook in boiling salted water, drain and pass them 
through a ricer, add one-fourth cup of butter, one teaspoon salt, a 
dash of pepper, two cups of bread crumbs moistened with a little hot 
water and a drop or two of onion juice. 

SOUR RABBIT. 

Cut rabbit and place in crock. Add two sliced onions and a few 
whole cloves, salt well. Cover with vinegar and let stand thirty-six 
hours, then fry in grease, and serve with brown gravy. — Mrs. M. East- 
wood. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

Stuff as for baking; put in a steamer over a pot of water and steam 
from two to five hours. When done, put the chicken in a baking 
pan, pour the gravy over it and put it in the oven to brown. — Mrs. W. 
G. W heater oft. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut up and let stand awhile until cool, salt, pepper and flour; put 
in hot lard, cover tightly; cook about one-half hour, not too fast. Serve 
with spoonfuls of rice on the platter. 

Gravy. — Put a tablespoon of flour in the skillet, let brown and 
pour in a cupful of cold water and milk (or cream) stir and boil until 
it thickens. — Mrs. J. B. Jolly. 

NASI PULAU. 

Boil about one or one and one-half cups rice, cooking it very 
slowly with not too much water, so that the grains stand apart. Take 
a few almonds, chop them just slightly, and fry in a small amount of 
lard or butter, one small onion, sliced very thin, a half cup bread cut in 
small cubes, a few raisins, a few cloves or whole spice, if wanted, each 
fried separately, then mix with the rice and fry all together. Do not 
fry until brown, just heated thoroughly. Have a whole chicken which 
has been boiled until half done, then baked and carved up ready for 
serving. Put on a platter and cover completely with the rice, prepared 
as above. — Miss Ethel Jackson (Malaysia). 

CHICKEN FRIED IN OVEN. 

Have chicken cut up, floured and salted. Put lard in pan and 
heat; before it is hot enough to burn fingers, turn chicken over in it 
and place in moderate oven until a delicate brown. — Mrs. Geo. Mussett. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 27 

DUMPLINGS FOR FRICASSE. 

One and one-half cups flour, two eggs, one teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, one heaping tablespoon butter, and one-half cup sweet milk. — 
Mrs. N. M. 

DROP DUMPLINGS. 

One egg, beaten, one-half cup milk, pinch of salt, butter the size 
of a hickory nut, flour to make a good stiff batter, and a good teaspoon 
of Royal Baking Powder. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Two cups chopped cooked chicken, two tablespoons butter, one 
cup milk, yolk of one egg, two tablespoons flour, one cup cream, one 
tablespoon chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Melt the butter 
and stir until smooth; add the milk and cream, stir until it begins to 
thicken, turn into a double cooker and add the chicken. When thor- 
oughly heated, add the yolks of the egg and the parsley. Mix, season 
to taste, and serve on toast, or in a potato border. 

CREAM CHICKEN. 

Boil one chicken, weighing four and one-half pounds, and one 
pound sweetbreads. Cut both up with can of mushrooms. 

Dressing. — Mix five tablespoons flour with butter, and add to a 
quart of cream that has come to a boil, season with salt, red pepper 
and a little nutmeg. Mix with bread crumbs and butter, and bake 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. — Mrs. S. P. Ronalds. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cover chicken with cold water, let simmer gently until two-thirds 
done, then salt the broth around the chicken to taste and cook until 
the meat is ready to fall from the bone. Remove the larger bones and 
lay the chicken in the bottom of the baking dish, then prepare a sauce. 

Sauce. — Three tablespoons butter, melted, to which add three 
tablespoons flour, a little pepper; mix well, to this add five cups of 
warm broth and one cup of milk or cream. Let this cook to a bubbling 
and pour over chicken in baking dish. Reserve some for gravy boat. 
Place dish in oven to keep to cooking point while you prepare a crust. 

Crust. — Two cups flour in the mixing bowl, two scant teaspoons 
Baking Powder, one-half teaspoon salt, two tablespoons shortening, 
rubbed through the flour; beat one egg lightly, to it add one cup milk, 
then add this to flour mixture, stirring to a batter. Lay over chicken 
and bake. — Mrs. S. P. Ronalds. 



\ 



28 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

CHICKEN PIE. 

(Delicious). 

Cook one chicken until meat drops from bones, add three heaping 
tablespoons butter in which cook three tablespoons flour, add to this 
three cups of the stock and one cup cream (milk will do) pour over 
chicken. 

Crust. — One cup flour, teaspoon salt, two teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, one-half cup butter; rub all together. Beat one egg, add one 
cup milk. Bake a rich, nice brown. — Chloe Melrose. 

' CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up one chicken as if to fry, then stew it, when done season and 
thicken with flour and cream. Make a crust of one pint flour and one 
half teaspoon salt, one tablespoonful of lard, heaping teaspoonful of 
Royal Baking Powder. Put stewed chicken in dish and crust on top. 
Bake until brown. — Elizabeth Newman. 

WILD DUCK WITH PEAS. 

Cold duck; ham; two tablespoonfuls of butter, one pint of stock, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one pint of peas, salt and pepper. Put the 
remains of a cold duck and one slice of ham in a saucepan with the 
butter. Fry until they are slightly browned. Then dredge in the 
flour and pour the stock in gradually. When it boils up, season with 
one teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Have the peas ready, put them in the center of the dish, arrange the 
duck around them and pour the sauce over it. 

DUMPLINGS. 

One cup flour, nearly two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, a 
little salt; sift all together, then add one egg and sweet milk to make 
rather stiff batter, and drop in spoonsfuls into boiling soup and boil 
twenty minutes. Do not lift the lid or the dumplings will not be light. — 
Mrs. A. D. Nash. 

AUNT SARAH PUNTNEY'S DUMPLINGS. 

One quart bread crumbs, one quart sour milk, one teaspoon Baking 
Soda, one teaspoon salt, one -half teaspoon pepper, five eggs, well beaten. 
Mix and pour in buttered pan; bake separately from fowl or meat, and 
baste often with the broth. — Mrs. Edward Hunsinger. 

CHICKEN PIE WITH OYSTERS. 

Prepare and disjoint a nice fat chicken, put in a vessel, cover with 
water, season. Stew until tender; line the sides of a deep baking dish 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 29 

with a nice crust. After removing the bones lay the chicken in layers, 
dredge with flour, then a layer of oysters with salt and pepper, and bits 
of butter and so on until all are used. Pour in half the gravy and some 
oyster liquor. Cover with top crust and bake one hour. — Mrs. Wm. 
Tilroe. 

BAKED SQUAB. 

Clean and split squabs down back, place in roasting pan, salt, 
pepper, and dredge with flour, place large pieces of butter on each squab, 
pour one cup of hot water over all, place cover on roaster, let steam on 
top of stove for two hours, then put in oven without lid until a nice 
brown. — Mrs. S. P. Ronalds. 

QUAIL. 

Season with salt and pepper, roll in flour and place in roasting 
pan in which is half a cup of hot butter or lard. Place on top pieces of 
butter. Add a little boiling water, cover closely and cook for one hour. 
— Mrs. George Mathews. 

TO COOK GUINEA IN "OVERCOATS." 

As the guinea is a dry meat, split down the back, spread out in 
roaster, salt, pepper and cover with a thick coating made in the fol- 
lowing proportion. One cup of butter and two cups of flour, creamed 
together (sometimes this amount of flour does not rub in well, less can 
be used if necessary), but cover the birds with it and cook thoroughly, 
basting as for turkey. This dressing should stay on and brown it, it is 
delicious. — Mrs. J. F. Jolly. 



A BUCK STOVE 

For Every Room in the House 



Sold Exclusively by 

ROBINSON &. SCOTT 

GRAYVILLE, ILLINOIS 



30 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 



Salads 



" To make a perfect salad, there should be a spendthrift for oil, a miser 
for vinegar, a wise man for salt and a madcap to stir the ingredients up 
and mix them well together." — Spanish. 

PECAN SALAD. 

One cup pecans, chopped fine, one -half cup olives, pitted, one- 
half red pepper, chopped fine, and mayonnaise dressing. Mix the 
ingredients and serve cold on lettuce leaves or in pepper cases. 

CHEESE BALLS FOR SALAD. 

Roll cream cheese into small balls. Press half an English walnut 
in center and cover with chopped pimentos. — Mrs. Charles Melrose. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of two eggs, four level tablespoons sugar, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one -half teaspoon mustard (dry), one teaspoon flour and a dash 
of paprika. 

Whip all together to a cream, add lump butter the size of small 
egg and three-fourths cup vinegar (dilute if too strong). Stir well 
until all is blended and cook, stirring constantly until it thickens. 

SALMAGUNDI SALAD. 

Six good sized potatoes, boiled and sliced, one good sized cucum- 
ber, chopped fine, one cup peas, two apples, chopped fine, one-half 
teaspoon celery seed, three hard boiled eggs, one sweet mango pepper. 
Chop lettuce fine and lay over top of salad. Mix all together and pour 
mayonnaise dressing over all. — Mrs. E. M. Jennings. 

BANANA SALAD. 

Cut bananas in halves and leave in skins. Chop peanuts fine and 
spread on top of bananas. Mix a mayonnaise dressing, using lemon 
juice instead of vinegar, and pour over bananas. — Besse Vincent. 

MAYONNAISE. 

One tablespoon butter melted, yolks of eight eggs, beat together 
well. Add one-third cup sugar, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon white 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 31 

pepper and one-half teaspoon mustard. Beat together. Add one- 
half cup vinegar. Cook in double boiler until thick, but do not let 
curdle; let cool. 

PERFECTION SALAD. 

Dissolve one package of Knox's Gelatine (plain) in water enough 
to take it up, add white wine vinegar (weakened and sweetened to 
taste), also salt and pepper. Have ready shredded white cabbage, 
celery, cut up fine, green sweet peppers, pimentos (canned variety) 
and onion, all cut up. There should be enough of the liquor to make 
the amount of cabbage used a little juicy. If the gelatine and vinegar 
are heated in order to dissolve well, allow it to cool off before putting 
over the cabbage, stir a little and pour all into small molds. Serve 
with the following dressing: 

Whip thick, sweet cream until stiff, add a little "French's Cream 
Mustard Dressing," and a little lemon juice and sugar. This makes a 
fine dressing and should stand up stiff in the mayonnaise bowl. — Mrs. 
J. F. Jolly. 

FILLED TOMATOES. 

For twelve medium sized tomatoes: Two cups of ground cabbage, 
one-half cup celery, one cup chopped nut meats, three hard boiled 
eggs. Moisten with following dressing: Two eggs well beaten, two 
spoons (tea) sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon of mustard, 
one-third cup of cream, one-half cup of vinegar, cook until it thickens, 
stirring all the time. Put in hollow tomatoes, after chilling. — Mrs. 
George Mathews. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Beat three eggs, season well with salt, pepper and dry mustard, 
add lump of butter size of egg, two-thirds cup of vinegar, one-half cup 
of liquor from one can of cove oysters. Let heat, thicken with rolled 
cracker crumbs, and cook five minutes, stirring constantly. Put in 
dish alternate layers of dressing and oysters, and garnish with lettuce 
leaves and sliced hard boiled eggs. — Flora E. Rees. 

SALMAGUNDI SALAD. 

Three good sized potatoes, boiled and sliced thin, two small cucum- 
bers, chopped fine, one small cup French peas, two medium sized 
apples, chopped fine, one cup celery, chopped fine, three hard boiled 
eggs. Mix all together, then cover with finely shredded lettuce and 
pour mayonnaise dressing over all. — Mrs. J. S. Lindsay. 



32 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

MANHATTAN SALAD. 

One cup beef or veal, one cup apples, one cup celery, one-half cup 
of almonds, one-half cup pecans, yolks of six hard boiled eggs. Chop 
all coarsely, except meat, chop it fine. Everything must be kept cold 
and separate until just before serving, when all must be tossed up 
lightly with a silver fork and mixed to proper consistency with mayon- 
naise dressing. Serve on lettuce, garnish with bits of orange. — Chloe 
Melrose. 

RUSSIAN SALAD. 

A Russian salad is a mixture of cold, chopped meats, and may be 
varied at will to suit the taste, or the exigencies of the situation. Beef, 
ham, tongue, chicken, lamb, mutton, veal, rabbit, squirrel, liver, pork 
or any other cold meat, chopped and mixed with any or all of following, 
celery, cabbage, lettuce, raw carrots, onions, young green beans, aspara- 
gus tips, or mushrooms, hard boiled eggs and mayonnaise dressing 
makes a fine salad. — Mrs. E. J. Br isw alter. 

BANANA AND APPLE SALAD. 

One cup apples, one cup bananas, one cup nuts, serve with whipped 
cream. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Three well beaten eggs, one-half cup vinegar, one teaspoon mustard, 
one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon pepper, six soda crackers, rolled fine, 
one can oysters. Put eggs, vinegar, mustard, salt, pepper and liquor 
off of oysters in kettle, and when it boils, add crackers. Cook about 
five minutes, take off the stove, add the oysters, and serve cold. 

PERFECTION SALAD. 

One-half box of gelatine, dissolved in one-half cup cold water, add 
one-half cup of vinegar, juice of one lemon, one pint of boiling water, 
one-fourth cup of sugar, teaspoon of salt, two cups of chopped celery, 
one cup chopped cabbage, one can shredded pimentos, one can French 
peas. Mold in cups and serve. — Chloe Melrose. 

PRUNE SALAD. 

Select large prunes, cook until tender, cool, cut open on one side, 
remove the stone and put a marshmallow in each, roll in salad dressing 
and chopped nuts. Put a little of the salad dressing on each, and serve 
on lettuce leaf. — Mrs. Chas. Melrose. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 33 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Pare two medium sized cucumbers, slice thin and let stand in ice- 
water for an hour. Arrange in a shallow dish, place half an English 
walnut meat on each slice. Sprinkle with chopped nuts and serve 
with French dressing. Garnish with parsley. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Cook asparagus until tender, also peas. Serve on lettuce leaf and 
use mayonnaise. Excellent. — Mrs. E. E. St. John. 

PERFECTION SALAD. 

One envelope Knox Sparkling Gelatine. One-half cup cold water, 
one-half cup mild vinegar, one pint boiling water, one teaspoonful salt, 
one cup finely shredded cabbage, juice of one lemon, one-half cup sugar, 
two cups celery, cut in small pieces, one-fourth can sweet red peppers, 
finely cut. Soak the gelatine in cold water five minutes; add vinegar, 
lemon juice, boiling water, sugar and salt. Strain and when beginning 
to set add remaining ingredients. Turn into a mold and chill. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing, or cut in dice and serve 
in cases made of red or green peppers, or the mixture may be shaped 
in molds lined with pimentos. A delicious accompaniment to cold 
sliced chicken or veal. 

MARSHMALLOW SALAD. 

Use a ten-cent can of marshmallows ; cut each with scissors into 
five or six pieces; one-half cup of English walnut meats, one-half pound 
of white grapes, cut in halves and seeded; in a separate dish put one small 
pineapple shredded (canned may be used) and an orange shredded; 
when ready to serve arrange the latter on leaves of head lettuce that 
have been sprinkled with salt; cover over with the marshmallows, 
grapes and nuts, and crown the top with mayonnaise dressing that has 
been mixed with a little whipped cream; any citrus fruit may be used. 

PRUNE SALAD. 

Wash and soak one pound of large prunes for three hours, cook 
until tender and when cool pit them and stuff with English walnuts. 
Shred one -half pound of lettuce. Make a nest of lettuce and on this 
put three or four of the stuffed prunes. Cover with a mayonnaise 
dressing and serve. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Three oranges, one-third can of pineapple (or three bananas), three 
tart apples and a few white grapes. 



34 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

Golden Salad Dressing for any kind of fruit salad: To two eggs, 
add one-fourth cup each, sugar, lemon juice and orange (or pineapple 
juice) . Cook until thickened in a double boiler. — Mrs. L. Ronalds. 

FROZEN FRUIT SALAD. 

One can pineapple, chunk, one can white cherries. Use the juices, 
two pounds Malaga grapes, six oranges (pulled into bits), two dozen 
Maraschino cherries, one-half box Cox's gelatine (more if necessary, 
but do not get too stiff). Pack in ice and salt in pound baking powder 
cans for six or eight hours. This quantity makes four cans, enough 
for twenty-four or more, according to thickness when sliced. Serve on 
lettuce leaf with mayonnaise and whipped cream. — Mrs. S. P. Ronalds. 

DELICIOUS SALAD DRESSING. 

One egg thoroughly beaten, one-fourth cup sour cream, three level 
tablespoons granulated sugar, one tablespoon of butter, one of flour, 
one -half teaspoon of celery salt, one -half teaspoon of prepared mustard, 
one -fourth teaspoon of dry mustard, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, one 
teaspoon of pure sweet olive oil and the juice of half a lemon, added 
after the dressing has been removed from the stove and slightly cooled. — 
Mrs. Wm. Thorn. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

Boil three-fourths can of tomatoes for twenty minutes ; add a little 
piece of onion, small teaspoon sugar, one teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 
pepper, salt, saltspoon of mustard. Strain through fine sieve or cloth. 
Add one and one-half tablespoons gelatine, which has been soaked in a 
little cold water. Strain again and pour into molds. Serve on let- 
tuce leaf with mayonnaise. — Mrs. Amaryn Gilbert. 

CUCUMBER STICKS. 

Take fresh medium size cucumbers and let remain on ice until 
just before serving; then peel and remove the bitter end, then slice two 
or three times lengthwise and re-slice the full length. Serve on crisp 
lettuce with salt and pepper (and vinegar if desired) or mayonnaise. 
Very refreshing. 

Cucumbers should be eaten the day they are picked and as soon 
as salted, if not, they become wilted and tough, losing their sweet, 
crisp flavor. — Mrs. John S. Lindsay. 

EGG AND CHEESE SALAD. 

One-half pound grated cheese, three or four hard boiled eggs; cut 
fine, one bottle stuffed olives, sliced thin across. Mix together and 
garnish; then pour mayonnaise dressing over all. — Alleen Wilson. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 35 

POTATO SALAD. 

Peel and slice two good sized cucumbers; let stand in salt water 
for one-half hour. Dice four cold boiled potatoes; drain the water 
from the cucumbers, and add to the potatoes and some chopped pimen- 
tos. Mix with any good salad dressing. — Mrs. Charles Melrose. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Three eggs, yolks (not cooked), one teaspoon mustard, one tea- 
spoon of salt, one tablespoon flour, one-fourth of a saltspoon of red 
pepper, two tablespoons of sugar, two tablespoons of melted butter, 
three-fourths cup of water (hot) , one-half cup of vinegar (hot) . Cook 
this and pour over the beaten yolks. — Mrs. Sam. Ronalds. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Cut into dice four large cold boiled potatoes; mix with these 
one-half can small peas, add one-half onion and one-half stalk celery, 
chopped together. Use any salad dressing to which has been added a 
little whipped cream. — Mary Melrose. 

EGG SALAD. 

Six hard boiled eggs, cut in small pieces; add one small bunch of 
celery, chopped very fine, and cover all with mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. 

PECAN SALAD. 

One cup pecans, chopped fine, one-half cup olives, pitted, one- 
half red pepper chopped fine and mayonnaise dressing. Mix the ingre- 
dients and serve cold on lettuce leaves or in pepper cases. 

SALMAGUNDI SALAD. 

Six good sized potatoes, boiled and sliced, one good sized cucum- 
ber chopped fine, one cup peas, two apples chopped fine, one-half tea- 
spoon celery seed, three hard boiled eggs, one sweet mango pepper; 
chop lettuce fine and lay over top of salad. Mix all together, and pour 
mayonnaise over all. — Mrs. E. M. Jennings. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of two eggs, four level tablespoons sugar, one-half teaspoon 
salt, one-half teaspoon mustard (dry), one teaspoon flour, and a dash 
of paprika. Whip all together to a cream; add lump of butter size of 
small egg, and three-fourths cup vinegar (dilute if too strong). Stir 
well until all is blended and cook, stirring constantly until it thickens. 



36 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Dates, figs, nuts, cherries, white grapes, pineapple, oranges, 
bananas. 

Dressing. — Two egg yolks, one-third cup of butter, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one cup of sugar, cream these together and add two 
cups of boiling water. In double cooker, when cool add one tablespoon 
vinegar, one teaspoon lemon extract. — Mrs. Geo. Mathews. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

One can of grated pineapple, three chopped oranges, three chopped 
bananas, one-fourth pound candied cherries, one-half box gelatine, 
dissolved in half pint of cold water. To one and one-half pints of hot 
water, add one pint of sugar and the juice of two lemons, strain and 
pour into the dissolved gelatine. When cool pour over fruit and set 
in cold place to congeal. Make day before using. Serve with whipped 
cream. — Mrs. E. J. Briswalter. 

CREAM SLAW. 

Chop cabbage fine, yolks of two eggs, one-half cup sugar, beat 
together, add half cup of vinegar, boil three minutes, remove and let 
stand about two minutes, then add half cup of cream or rich sweet 
milk, butter size of walnut, salt to taste, add dash of cayenne pepper, 
let come to boil and pour over cabbage. — Mary Crawford. 

CABBAGE SLAW. 

Chop fine one-half gal. cabbage, two eggs beaten well, one-half cup 
of cream, butter size of an egg, one-half cup of sugar, one cup of vine- 
gar, one-half cup of water. Boil and pour over cabbage. 

CARROT SALAD. 

Pare and grind with the coarsest knife of your grinder, two cups 
of raw carrots. Chip one cup each of celery and nuts. English wal- 
nuts preferred. Pour over a cream dressing and garnish with boiled 
egg and parsley. — Mrs. Sam Blair. 

EGG SLAW. 

Chop fine about two pints cabbage, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
place on the stove one small cup vinegar, one tablespoonful sugar, 
pinch mustard, butter one-half size of egg. Let boil, then add one egg, 
well beaten. Cook a few seconds. Pour over cabbage. — Mrs. Dozier. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 37 

COLD SLAW. 

Chop fine one-half medium sized head of cabbage, salt and pepper 
to taste. Boil together one-half cup vinegar, one-half cup sugar, 
tablespoonful butter, two well beaten eggs until it thickens, then pour 
over the seasoned cabbage and serve cold. — Mrs. Chester Melrose. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Boil one-half cup vinegar with two teaspoons sugar, one-half 
teaspoon each of salt, mustard, cayenne. Beat one-fourth cup butter 
to a cream, with one teaspoon flour, stir into the boiling vinegar. 
Cook five minutes, then pour it over one well beaten egg. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Three egg yolks, not cooked, one teaspoon dry mustard, one tea- 
spoon salt, one tablespoon flour, one-fourth salt spoon paprika, 
two tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons melted butter, three-fourths 
cup hot water, one -half cup hot vinegar, cook and pour over the beaten 
yolks. Add sweet or sour cream. — Mrs. Sam Ronalds. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING. 

Mix three teaspoons of sugar, one-half teaspoon of mustard, one 
teaspoon salt, one teaspoon corn starch. Beat the ingredients into the 
yolks of two eggs. Add three tablespoons of cream, one-half cup 
vinegar and the beaten whites of two eggs. Cook until it thickens, 
and stir constantly. Remove and add one and one-half tablespoons 
olive oil. — Mary Crawford. 

SLAW DRESSING. 

One tablespoon butter, half -cup vinegar, beat one egg with three 
teaspoons sugar, a little flour, one-half teaspoon ground mustard and 
one-hale cup milk or cream. Boil rather thick. Let cool then pour 
over cabbage. Put salt and pepper on cabbage. — Mrs. Nash. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of four eggs, two tablespoons corn starch, one-half teaspoon 
mustard, one teaspoon of sugar, one teaspoon table salt, dash of cay- 
enne pepper, juice of one lemon; cut one onion in half, and scrape the 
juice. One-fourth cup of vinegar. Mix the dry ingredients with the 
eggs and vinegar. Add one quart of cream, sweet or sour, cooking 
until thickened. Add two tablespoons of olive oil. 



38 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

PORK SALAD. 

Two pounds of well cooked fresh lean pork, one and one-half 
cups chopped celery, one-half cup cabbage, pepper and salt to suit 
taste, and mix with mayonnaise dressing. — Mrs. I. N. Price. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of eight eggs, one and one-half cups butter, one-third cup 
sugar, two teaspoons dry mustard, one teaspoon salt, pinch red pepper, 
one tablespoon flour. Mix the above well; heat a pint of vinegar; 
when boiling add the above mixture and let this cook until it thickens, 
when cool pour into a glass jar and keep in a cool place. — May me Vin- 
cent. 



GEO. D. MATHEWS 

GROCER 

The best of everything in the Grocery line at 
Reasonable Prices 

Pure Food Bread 

"OFTEN BUTTERED 

NEVER BETTERED" 

T. H. MURPHY, Grayville 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 39 



Vegetables 



What we eat today walks and talks tomorrow; therefore, if we would 
walk well and talk well, we must eat well. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Slice potatoes almost as thin as paper, soak in ice water until crisp ; 
wipe dry with dry cloth. Fry in hot lard, drain and sprinkle with salt. 
Will keep fresh in covered granite kettle for days. — Mrs. E. J . Bris- 
walter. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

One pint mashed potatoes, one tablespoon butter, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-half teaspoon celery seed, one -half teaspoon chopped 
onion, one-half teaspoon chopped parsley. Mold to shape, and roll 
in cracker or bread crumbs and yelk of egg and fry in kettle of hot 
lard. 

POTATOES IN THE HALF SHELL. 

Wash well and bake six large potatoes. When done cut in halves, 
scoop out the inside, mash, add three tablespoons of butter and as 
much cream as the potatoes will take up, add salt and pepper, and the 
whites of two eggs, well beaten. Beat until light and creamy. Refill 
the shells with this mixture, sprinkle grated cheese over the top and 
bake about ten minutes in a hot oven. — Mrs. Charles Melrose. 

BAKED POTATOES, STUFFED. 

Bake medium-sized potatoes until done. Cut open, take the 
inside out, put in hot milk, butter, salt, pepper and one cup grated 
cheese. Put back in shells and sprinkle top with cheese and brown in 
the oven. — Mrs. W. H. Robinson. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash, scrape and split lengthwise. Steam or boil until nearly 
done. Drain and place in a baking dish, placing over them lumps of 
butter, pepper, salt and sprinkle thickly with sugar, and bake in the 
oven to a nice brown. 

Hubbard squash is nice cooked in the same manner. 



40 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Pare and slice potatoes very thin, soak in cold water one hour; 
drain and wipe dry on cloth. Fry crispy by dropping a few at a time 
in a kettle of hot fat. Dry on paper, sprinkle with salt and set in 
oven a moment. — Miss Huebner. 

CHEESE POTATOES. 

Stew potatoes until done (salt). Cut in chunks and spread a 
layer in bottom of a baking dish; next add a layer of cheese, butter, 
pepper and cream, another layer of potatoes on this, etc. Bake 
until cheese is soft. — Besse Vincent. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Take three or four medium-sized Irish potatoes and slice thin. 
Take buttered baking pan, put layer of potatoes, pepper, salt and but- 
ter, and layer of cracker crumbs, alternately, with cracker crumbs on 
top until dish is almost full; cover with sweet milk. Bake in moderate 
oven until potatoes are soft. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Place a layer of tomatoes in baking dish, season well, then a layer 
of bread or cracker crumbs; alternate until dish is full, with butter on 
top. Bake until brown. 

DAISY FILLED TOMATOES. 

Skin and take out center of medium-sized tomatoes. Fill with the 
following salad: Chop fine, hard boiled eggs, celery and cabbage, add 
plenty of broken nut meats and mix with thick mayonnaise dressing. 
Place each tomato on a bed of finely shredded lettuce leaves, put spoon- 
ful of mayonnaise on top, letting a little run down the sides. Now 
cut some boiled eggs into halves, putting yolks through potato ricer, 
and sprinkle on top of each tomato to form center of daisy. Use the 
whites cut in strips to form the petals around the tomato, letting them 
rest on the lettuce. — Mrs. E. J. Briswalter. 

BAKED RICE AND TOMATOES. 

One cup of cold rice and two good-sized tomatoes. Alternate 
layers, well-seasoned, with cracker crumbs on top. Bake. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

One pint tomatoes, one scant pint cracker crumbs, three table- 
spoons butter, one teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon pepper. Put 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 41 

layer of tomatoes in baking dish; dredge with salt and pepper and dot 
with butter. Now put in a layer of crumbs; continue this till all are 
used, having crumbs and butter for last layer. Bake thirty minutes. — 
Miss Huebner. 

STUFFED TOMATOES WITH MACARONI. 

Select a number of ripe tomatoes that are smooth and firm, scoop 
out the seeds and fill cavities with cooked macaroni; add salt, pepper, 
a bit of butter, a little grated cheese, and bake thirty minutes in a hot 
oven. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut in halves and dust each surface with salt, pepper and enough 
very fine bread crumbs to dry them. Have some hot butter in the 
frying pan and brown the tomatoes on both sides. Drop bits of but- 
ter between and stand over a moderate fire to cook very slowly. When 
tender take up very carefully and serve on heated platter. 

They are sometimes finished with a cream gravy as follows: Pour 
over them enough cream to nearly cover them, let come to a boil and 
simmer five minutes, baste carefully and thicken gravy with two eggs 
(yolks) beaten with a little cold cream. — Ida Butler. 

BAKED EGGS WITH TOMATOES. 

Select large smooth tomatoes, cut a slice from smooth ends and 
scoop out seeds and soft pulp. Sprinkle inside with salt, pepper, 
butter and toasted bread crumbs. Break an egg into each tomato, 
add more seasoning and toasted crumbs and bake in oven twenty-five 
or thirty minutes. — Mrs. Sam Helck. 

FRIED RIPE TOMATOES. 

Take half ripe tomatoes, slice one-fourth inch thick; dredge with 
flour, sprinkle with salt, pepper. Fry in half butter and half lard 
until tender. Make a sauce by pouring milk in the juice left, until it 
boils. 

BAKED PEPPERS. 

Remove seeds from peppers. To one cup of bread crumbs, add 
one cup of cheese, some cold meat, chopped fine, also a half red pepper, 
chopped. Mix these ingredients, put in pepper cases and bake in 
buttered pan. 



42 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

PARSNIPS FRIED IN BACON. 

Boil your parsnips until tender, in salt water. Drain and put 
them in a frying pan in which the slices of bacon are partly fried, and 
brown them nicely. Serve with the slices of bacon as a garnish. — 
Mrs. Maude White. 

SALSIFY. 

Scrape and put in fresh water. Put on to boil in hot water, when 
done mash and season. Make into cakes and dip in beaten egg and fine 
bread crumbs. Fry in hot lard. 

BAKED PUMPKIN OR SQUASH. 

Cut the pumpkin first in halves, then in quarters. Remove the 
seeds, but not the rind. Place in a baking pan with the rind down- 
ward, and bake in a slow oven until tender. Season with salt, pepper 
and butter. When done, serve in the rind. Serve it by spoonfuls as 
you would mashed potatoes. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Take one good-sized egg plant and cut in half, crosswise. Remove 
the inside and place shells in salt water. 

For Filling. — Boil ten cents worth of veal until tender; grind and 
save stock. Also boil the inside of egg plant and one small onion. 
When thoroughly cooked, mix with meat and stock, season highly with 
salt and pepper, and thicken with cracker crumbs. Fill the shells, 
place in pan with a little water and bake until filling is brown. — Mrs. 
W. H. Robinson. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare three cucumbers, cut them in slices about one-sixteenth of 
an inch thick; dredge with salt and pepper and let them lay fifteen 
minutes, then beat one egg until light, add to it one-half pint of milk, 
a little salt, a dash of black pepper, one and one-half cups flour until 
smooth. Dip the pieces of cucumbers into batter and fry in smoking 
hot fat. When done take out, being careful not to pierce them with a 
fork or they will fall. — Mrs. Fred Schoeneman. 

CREAMED CAULIFLOWER. 

Take one head of cauliflower and boil until tender; then make the 
following sauce and add: One pint milk or cream, one tablespoon of 
butter, if cream is used (or two if you use milk), two tablespoons flour, 
one-half teaspoon salt and one-half salt spoon pepper. Heat cream 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 43 

in double boiler, melt the butter in cup until it bubbles. Add dry 
flour and beat smooth, add pepper and salt. Stir in boiling cream. 
Cook five minutes and add grated cheese just before serving. — Mrs. 
W. H. Robinson. 

PEAS IN BEET CUPS. 

Boil small beets in salted water until tender, skin and scoop out 
centers to form cups, then fill with creamed French peas. Serve hot. 

SPANISH BEANS. 

Cook a cup of white beans. When nearly done add one pint can 
of tomatoes, then fry two or three slices of bacon and three onions 
together. Salt to suit taste. Put in just enough thickening to make 
them a little thick. Bake one-half hour. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak one pound of beans over night. In the morning pour off 
the water, put beans in a pan, add several slices of bacon, then salt, 
pepper and half cup of sugar. Fill the pan with boiling water, put in 
oven and bake five hours. Add water to beans as needed. — Mrs. Seil. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Cut as for coarse slaw, and stew in a covered sauce pan until 
tender. Drain and return to saucepan. Add cream, butter, salt and 
pepper. Let simmer two or three minutes, then serve. 

ESCALLOPED CABBAGE. 

Cut cabbage fine. Put layer of cabbage in baking dish, sprinkle 
with salt, then layer of cracker crumbs, layer of cabbage, until you have 
as much as you want; then cover with sweet milk and butter the size 
of an egg. 

CHAS. B. TILLMAN 

Hot Air Heating and Ventilating 

All Kinds of Metal Work and Roofing 

Cheapest Rubber Roofing on the Market and Guaranteed for 20 Years 

Sheet Metal Worker in Grayville for 30 Years 



44 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 



Bread 



She looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread 
of idleness. Give her the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise 
her in the gates. 

LIGHT BREAD YEAST. 

One pint dry yeast, three large potatoes, a handful of peach leaves, 
catnip or hops, either will do, one-half teacup of sugar, one-half gallon 
of corn meal; soak yeast in a little cold water, boil potatoes; when 
done mash, put the leaves in a cloth and boil, then add one-half cup 
of this juice to the potatoes and the water they were cooked in; scald 
the meal with this; let cool, then add the yeast and sugar. Knead 
well together, then mold and let dry in the shade. — Mrs. Fred Kivett. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

For Making Three to Four Loaves. 

Scald one-half pirn of sweet milk into which stir enough corn meal 
to make a thin mush. Set in a warm place over night. In winter 
this should be done about noon of the day previous to baking. In the 
morning take a pint of lukewarm water, add one teaspoon of salt, 
one-half teaspoon of soda, and enough flour to make a thick batter. 
Now stir in the mush, which should be well fermented, and set in a 
warm place. This sponge should rise in two or three hours to twice 
its own size, then add three quarts of sifted flour Make a hole in the 
center and put in a level tablespoon of salt, three rounded tablespoons 
of sugar and lard the size of an egg. Pour in one pint of lukewarm 
water and the sponge. Make rather a stiff dough and knead well for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, then make into loaves which will about 
half fill the pans, and set in a warm place to rise until it fills the pan. 
Bake in a tolerably hot oven about forty or fifty minutes. — Mrs. Wm. 
Martin. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

Two good-sized raw potatoes, pared and sliced, one teaspoon salt, 
two tablespoons corn meal, mix at noon with one quart boiling water; 
let stand until foamy, then pour off water and thicken with warm 
flour; let stand in pan of warm water until light. When ready to mix, 
use warm flour and add one tablespoon lard, two tablespoons sugar. 
Mix very soft, put into pans, let rise until light and bake thirty min- 
utes. — Mrs. Batson. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 45 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

Into a quart tin, put one pint warm water, one tablespoon meal, 
one teaspoon sugar, one-half teaspoon salt. Flour to make stiff. Put 
tin in kettle of warm water, covering tin and kettle; when light take 
one-half pint of potato water, scald flour, adding two large potatoes, 
mashed, lard size of an egg. Mix, let rise, and mold into loaves and 
let rise and bake. — Mrs. Wm. Tibial. 

EASY RAISIN BREAD. 

One yeast cake dissolved in cold water, one quart warm water, 
with one teaspoon of lard, one cup of sugar, one cup of raisins, one tea- 
spoon of salt and two beaten eggs ; stir in flour, all you can by stirring, 
don't knead. Do this at noon; at night run a knife around the sides 
and through the dough several times. In the morning flour the hands 
and pinch out enough for each loaf; put in separate pans, let rise and 
bake. This makes four loaves. Splendid. — Mrs. A. L. Patterson. 

MILK BREAD. 

One cake Fleishmann's Yeast, one quart milk, scalded and cooled, 
two tablespoonfuls sugar, three quarts sifted flour, two tablespoonfuls 
lard or butter, melted, one tablespoonful salt. Dissolve yeast and 
sugar in lukewarm milk, add one and one-half quarts of sifted flour. 
Beat until smooth. Cover and set to rise in warm place, free from 
draft, about one and one-half hours. When light, add lard or butter, 
remainder of flour, or enough to make dough that can be handled, and 
salt. Knead until smooth and elastic. Place in well-greased bowl. 
Cover, let rise again until double in bulk, about two hours. Mold into 
loaves. Place in well-greased bread pans, filling them half full. Cover 
and let rise again until double in bulk, about one hour. Bake forty to 
fifty minutes. This makes three one and one-half pound loaves. 

WHITE BREAD. 

(Quick Method.) 

One cake Fleischmann's Yeast, one quart lukewarm water, two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls lard or butter, melted, three 
quarts sifted flour, one tablespoonful salt. Dissolve yeast and sugar in 
lukewarm water. Do not allow it to stand more than ten minutes. 
Add lard or butter, and half the flour. Beat until smooth, then add 
balance of the flour, or enough to make dough that can be handled, 
and the salt. Knead until smooth and elastic. Place in greased 
bowl, cover and set aside in a moderately warm place, free from draft, 
until light — about two hours. Mold into loaves. Place in well- 



46 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

greased bread pans, filling them half full. Cover and let rise one 
hour, or until double in bulk. Bake forty to fifty minutes. 

NOTE. — Two cakes of yeast may be used in this recipe with ad- 
vantage to the bread and a saving of time. 

HOT CROSS BUNS. 

One cake Fleischmann's Yeast, one cup milk, scalded and cooled, 
one tablespoonful sugar, three and one-fourth cups sifted flour, one- 
fourth cup butter, one-third cup sugar, one egg, one-fourth cup raisins 
or currants, one-fourth teaspoonful salt. Dissolve yeast and one 
tablespoonful sugar in lukewarm milk. Add one and one-half cups 
flour, to make sponge. Beat until smooth, cover and let rise until 
light, in warm place, free from draft, about one hour. Add butter and 
sugar creamed, egg well-beaten, raisins or currants, which have been 
floured, rest of flour, or enough to make a moderately soft dough, and 
salt. Turn on board, knead lightly, place in greased bowl. Cover 
and set aside in warm place, until double in bulk, which should be in 
about two hours. Shape with hands into medium-sized round buns, 
place in well-greased, shallow pans about two inches apart. Cover 
and let rise again, about one hour, or until light. Glaze with egg 
diluted with water. With sharp knife cut a cross on top of each. 
Bake twenty minutes. Just before removing from oven, brush with 
sugar moistened with water. While hot, fill cross with plain frosting. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One cake Fleischmann's Yeast, one pint milk, scalded and cooled, 
two tablespoonfuls sugar, four tablespoonfuls lard or butter, melted, 
three pints sifted flour, one teaspoonful salt. Dissolve yeast and sugar 
in lukewarm milk, add lard or butter and one and one-half pints of 
flour. Beat until perfectly smooth. Cover and let rise in a warm 
place one hour, or until light. Then add remainder of flour, or enough 
to make a dough, and the salt. Knead well. Place in greased bowl. 
Cover and let rise in a warm place for about one and one-half hours, or 
until double in bulk. Roll out one-fourth inch thick. Brush over 
lightly with butter, cut with two-inch biscuit cutter, crease through 
center heavily with dull edge of knife, and fold over in pocket book shape. 
Place in well-greased, shallow pans, one inch apart. Cover and let 
rise until light, about three-quarters of an hour. Bake ten minutes in 
hot oven. 

WALNUT BREAD. 

^ ne e gg> two cups milk, four cups flour, four teaspoons (not heap- 
ing) Royal Baking Powder, two teaspoons salt, one cup English wal- 
nuts, one-half cup sugar. Pour into pan and let stand twenty minutes. 
Bake one hour. — Mrs. W. E. Brown. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 47 

NUT BREAD. 

One well beaten egg, three-fourths cup granulated sugar, beaten 
well together, three-fourths cup sweet milk, with two heaping teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder; two cups sifted flour, one heaping cup chopped 
nuts. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. — Mrs. I. N. Price, Little 
Rock, Ark, 

NUT BREAD. 

One egg, two cups of milk, four cups of flour, four teaspoons of 
Royal Baking Powder, one teaspoon of salt, one-half cup of sugar, one 
cup of chopped nuts. Let stand twenty minutes and bake forty-five 
minutes. — Mrs. H. C. Mitchell. 

NUT BREAD. 

One pint of milk, one-third cup of molasses, two and three-fourths 
cups of white flour, three and three-fourths cups of entire wheat flour, 
one cup of nuts, one cake of yeast, one and one-half teaspoons of salt, 
scald milk, add yeast softened in one-fourth cup of lukewarm water; 
add flour and knead. Let rise until double its bulk. Add nuts broken 
in small pieces. Shape into loaves and bake in fifty minutes. — Mrs. H. 
C. Mitchell. 

NUT BREAD. 

(Fine). 

Mix together two cups graham flour, one cup white flour, one-half 
teaspoon salt, one tablespoon brown sugar, one-half cup broken nut 
meats, one-half cup raisins, cut in small pieces. When well mixed, 
add two tablespoons molasses, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in one 
tablespoon hot water and one and one-half cups of sour milk. Bake 
three-fourths of an hour. Part dates can be used with raisins if desired. 

NUT BREAD. 

One egg, three-fourths cup sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one and 
one-half cups milk, four cups flour, into which sift four teaspoons of 
Baking Powder, one and one-half cups chopped nuts. Set to raise one- 
half hour in warm place. Bake in slow oven. — Mrs. S. H. Melrose. 

COFFEE CAEE. 

One cup of sugar, piece of butter or lard, one egg, one cup of milk 
(warm), one cup of yeast, salt; enough flour to thicken. — Minnie Shaw 



48 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Set sponge over night with one quart warm water, one-half yeast 
cake, one tablespoon salt. In the morning add one cup sugar, one 
egg, one teaspoon cinnamon, lard size of a walnut. Mix stiff and let 
rise. Roll out, put in pans, sprinkle with melted butter, sugar and 
cinnamon. When light, bake. — Mrs. Fred Schoeneman. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two-thirds cup Orleans molasses, one cup sweet milk, one cup 
sour milk, three teaspoons soda (or soda and Baking Powder), one cup 
flour, one cup corn meal, one cup Graham flour and pinch of salt. 
Steam three hours. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One and one-half cups bread flour (sifted), one and one-half cups 
of Graham flour (not sifted). Put into these a pinch of salt, then add 
one-half of a cup of white granulated sugar, or two-thirds cup of molas- 
ses, and one and one-half cups of sour milk, in which one teaspoon of 
soda has been dissolved. Bake one and one-half hours in slow oven. — 
Mrs. H. L. Ronalds. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Rub one tablespoon of lard into two quarts of flour. Moisten 
one cake of dry yeast. Scald one pint of milk, and when cool, but not 
cold, add to the flour. Beat well, add one teaspoon of salt, one-half 
cup of sugar and the softened yeast. Let rise. At second kneading, 
roll thin, spread with melted butter, brown sugar, cinnamon, currants 
and finely shaved citron. Roll and cut off pieces an inch thick. Stand 
these on end, allow to rise and bake. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

One pint milk (or water), one cake compressed yeast, one table- 
spoon sugar, one tablespoon butter (or lard), one and one-half pints 
sifted GOLD MEDAL FLOUR. Dissolve yeast and sugar in the 
milk. Work the butter into the sifted flour, then add to the liquid 
and mix well. Cover with a bread towel and allow to stand until very 
light; about two or three hours, according to the temperature. Work 
down gently and allow to rise again from one-half to three-quarter 
hours. Dust the board with flour and roll out the dough ten inches 
wide and one-fourth inch thick. Spread over the dough butter, brown 
sugar, cinnamon and currants, using these freely. Roll up similar to 
a jelly roll and cut into pieces one and one-half inches long and set on 
end in pans. Prepare the pans by spreading over the bottom both 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 49 

butter and brown sugar about one-fourth inches deep. Allow to rise 
and bake as you would rolls. When taken out of the oven turn upside 
down on a paper and allow to stand a minute before removing from the 
pan. 

PRUNTY AND HELM'S. 

USE GOLD MEDAL FLOUR. 

BISCUIT. 

Sift two cups Bowman's Royal flour in bowl. Place in center 
piece of lard or butter size of egg. On top of this put two teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder. Mix while gradually pouring sweet milk on 
lard and baking powder, to consistency for rolling and cutting out. 
Bake in hot oven. — Mrs. George Mathews. 

BISCUIT FOR TWO. 

One cup flour, one teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, one-half tea- 
spoon salt (little sugar if desired), lard size of a walnut. Mix well; 
add milk enough to make stick together; put on board and pat with 
hand until one-half inch thick. Cut out and bake in hot oven. — Mrs. 
Chas. Emmerson. 

POTATO SPLIT BISCUIT. 

Bake two large potatoes ; while hot wash through a strainer into a 
stone jar. Into the hot potatoes stir a cupful of lard and butter mixed, 
salt and two well beaten eggs. Add to this a cupful of milk in which 
has been dissolved one-half cake of compressed yeast and a tablespoon 
of sugar; stir in one quart of sifted flour. Mix this at eight o'clock in 
the morning, cover and leave anywhere in the kitchen in winter. At 
eleven o'clock add to the dough one pint of sifted flour, set away for a 
second using, at four o'clock turn out on the biscuit board and with 
just sufficient flour to handle it, roll out and cut with biscuit cutter, 
placing in a baking pan, one on top of the other, with a little butter 
between. Cover with towel and let rise two hours. Bake in quick 
oven for six o'clock dinner. — Mrs. Amaryn Gilbert. 

BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, after sifted, two heaping teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, one-half teaspoon salt, sift all together; add lump of 
lard the size of an egg, and work together thoroughly, then add sweet 
milk to make a soft dough; beat well and add just enough flour to roll. 
Bake in a moderate oven. — Nancy Huebner. 



50 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

SOUTHERN BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Four cups flour, one heaping iron spoon of lard, one teaspoonsalt, 
enough water and milk mixed for stiff dough. Use three cups of flour 
at first, work the fourth cup in gradually, work and beat until it blisters 
good; take very small piece and work in hand until round, flatten out 
the size of a biscuit; prick with fork and bake in moderate oven until 
a nice brown. — Mrs. H. L. Ronalds. 

BRAN GEMS. 

Bran one pint, flour one pint, molasses one large teaspoon, soda 
one small teaspoon, salt; milk to mix moderately stiff. Drop in gem 
tins and bake in quick oven. Add nuts or raisins chopped fine, if 
desired. — Florence Melrose. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mix together two teacupfuls of sour milk, two tablespoons brown 
sugar, one large teaspoon salaratus, and the same of salt. Mix into a 
stiff batter with Graham flour. Have gem irons hot and bake twenty 
minutes in hot oven. — Carro Melrose. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Two tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons butter or fresh lard, one 
teaspoon salt, one cup sweet milk, one egg, well beaten, two cups 
flour (one-third white flour and two-thirds Graham flour) and one 
heaping teaspoon Baking Powder. — Ida Butler, 

TEA GEMS. 

One cup sugar, one egg, one-half cup sweet milk, two cups flour, 
one-third cup butter, one teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, flavor with 
lemon. Bake in gem pans. — Carro Melrose. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

One cup of boiled rice, one cup of sweet milk, two eggs, well beaten, 
five tablespoons of melted butter, one-half teaspoon of salt, one table- 
spoon of sugar, three teaspoons Baking Powder, and one and one- 
half cups of flour. Mix into a soft batter which will drop from a 
spoon. Stir after all the ingredients are in, lightly, but thoroughly 
and drop the batter into hot buttered muffin rings. — Alleen Wilson. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 51 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

One egg, one-fourth cup sugar, one cup sour milk, one and one- 
half cups Graham flour, half sifted, one cup white flour, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, butter size of walnut, and a little salt. — Mrs. Batson. 

MUFFINS. 

One tablespoon butter, one of sugar, one egg, one teaspoon of salt, 
four cups of sifted flour (Graham may be used if desired). Four round- 
ing teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder, two cups of milk. Have 
muffin pans very hot and well greased. Bake in quick oven. This 
makes twenty-five muffins. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

One cup corn meal, one-half teaspoon salt, one-half cup flour, one 
egg, one and one-half spoonfuls Royal Baking Powder, one tablespoon 
sugar, one tablespoon melted butter, one and one-half cups sweet milk. 
Beat the egg until light, add milk, butter and sugar. Sift flour, meal, 
Baking Powder and salt; stir into milk and egg. This makes six nice 
muffins. — Mrs. Amaryn Gilbert. 

GERMAN PANCAKES. 

Take five eggs, separating the yolks. Beat yolks until very light, 
add three tablespoons flour, stirring well. Beat whites, adding as 
much salt as the tip of a knife will hold. Add one-half cup of milk to 
the flour and yolks, lastly stir in whites. Have griddle hot, pour on 
enough batter to nearly cover the griddle. When done, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, squeezing lemon juice over the sugar. This will make 
five large pancakes. Serve individually. — Mrs. Lou Ronalds. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One cake Fleischmann's Yeast, two cups lukewarm water, one cup 
milk, scalded and cooled, two tablespoonfuls light brown sugar, two 
cups buckwheat flour, one cup sifted white flour, one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls salt. Dissolve yeast and sugar in lukewarm liquid, add 
buckwheat and white flour gradually, and salt. Beat until smooth. 
Cover and set aside in warm place, free from draft, to rise, about one 
hour. When light, stir well and bake on hot griddle. 

If wanted for over night, use one-fourth cake of yeast and an extra 
half teaspoonful of salt. Cover and keep in a cool place. 



52 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 



IN all receipts in this book calling for bak- 
ing powder use " Royal." Better and 
finer food will be the result, and you will 
safeguard it against alum. 

In receipts calling for one teaspoonful of 
soda and two of cream of tartar, use two 
spoonfuls of Royal, and leave the cream of 
tartar and soda out. You get the better food 
and save much trouble and guess work. 

Look out for alum baking powders. Do 
not permit them to come into your house 
under any consideration. They add an in- 
jurious substance to your food, destroying in 
part its digestibility. All doctors will tell 
you this, and it is unquestionable. The use 
of alum in whiskey is absolutely prohibited ; 
why not equally protect the food of our 
women and children ? 

Alum baking powders may be known by 
their price. Baking powders at a cent an 
ounce or ten or twenty-five cents a pound are 
made from alum. Avoid them. Use no 
baking powder unless the label shows it is 
made from cream of tartar. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 53 



Cakes 



"It is written" — in the Scriptures — 

"That man liveth not by bread alone. 1 ' 

Now it is ordained that cake is a fair coadjutor, but — 

Give not the child too much cake, 

As it may give it the stomach ache. 

CAKE MAKING. 

General Rules. 

Sift flour, measure, sift again with baking powder. 

Have your butter soft, cream alone. 

Use fine granulated sugar and sift. 

Too much butter makes the cake coarse and heavy. 

Loaf cake must be a little stiffer than layer. 

Use Royal Baking Powder. 

PORK CAKE. 

One pound fresh ground pork (fat), one pint boiling coffee, three 
and one-half cups brown sugar, one tablespoonful allspice, one table- 
spoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful cloves, one tablespoonful soda, 
six cups flour, with tablespoon of Royal Baking Powder, one pound 
seedless raisins, one pound currants, ten cents worth of citron, one cup 
nut kernels. Roll fruit in one cup of flour. Pour the boiling coffee on 
the pork, then add the sugar, and spices, next the soda, dissolved in a 
tablespoon of hot water, then flour into which the baking powder has 
been sifted. Lastly add the fruit. Bake slowly. — Mrs. J. G. Harmon. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound butter, one and one-half pounds brown sugar, one and 
one-half pounds flour, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one- 
half pound citron, one cup molasses, nine whole eggs, whites and yolks, 
beaten separately, one cup sour milk, one heaping teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in a little warm water, then add to the milk, one tablespoon 
lemon extract, one teacup strong cold coffee, one tablespoon cinnamon, 
two teaspoons nutmeg, two teaspoons allspice, two teaspoons cloves, 
two teaspoons ginger, soda and milk added lastly. Bake four hours. — 
Mrs. Chester Melrose. 



54 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Three pounds dry flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, three 
pounds seeded raisins, two pounds currants, three-fourths pound 
blanched almonds, one pound citron, one dozen eggs, one tablespoon of 
allspice, one teaspoon of cloves, two tablespoons cinnamon, two nut- 
megs, one wineglass of lemon juice, one wineglass of grape juice, one 
coffee-cup of molasses, with the spices in it; steep gently twenty or 
thirty minutes, not boiling hot; beat the eggs very light, put the fruit 
in last, stirring it gradually, also a teaspoon of soda dissolved in a table- 
spoon of water. The fruit should be well floured ; if necessary add flour 
after the fruit is in; butter a sheet of paper and lay it in the pan. Lay 
in some slices of citron, then a layer of the mixture, then layer of the 
citron until the pan is nearly full. Bake three or four hours, according 
to the thickness of the loaves, in a tolerably hot oven and with steady 
heat. Let it cool in the oven gradually. Ice when cold. It improves 
this cake very much to add three teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder. — 
Mrs. Sam Blair. 

EGGLESS FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound chopped salt pork, one pound Sultana raisins, one 
pound currants, one pound English walnuts, one pint hot water, two 
cups sugar, one cup molasses, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon 
allspice, one teaspoon soda, one -half teaspoon baking powder. 

Pour hot water over pork and let stand till nearly cold, add soda, 
molasses, sugar, fruit, nuts, spices, Royal Baking Powder, and enough 
flour to make it very stiff. Bake for one and one-half hours in moderate 
oven. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

One cupful of sour cream, one cupful of brown sugar, one-half cup- 
ful of molasses, three cupfuls of flour, one cupful of raisins, one cupful 
of chopped walnuts, spice to taste, one teaspoonful of soda in table- 
spoonful of hot water, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and one egg. — Mrs. 
T. H. Enderson. 

PORK CAKE. 

One full pound of salt pork chopped fine or ground. Pour over 
this one pint of boiling water. To this add two cups brown sugar, 
one cup molasses, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cinnamon, one- 
half teaspoon ground cloves, one-half teaspoon allspice, one nutmeg, 
one cup of chopped raisins, six cups of flour. Bake in ordinary bread 
pans in slow oven, one hour. — Dr. J. D. Merrill. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 



55 



Has no 
Equal 

for 
Cream 
Puffs, 
Short 
Cakes, 

Pie 
Crust, 

Etc. 



SWANS DOWN 
SB CAKE FLOUR 




Also Manufacturers of the famous 

SWANS DOWN PURE WHEAT (Entire Wheat) FLOUR 

The Muffin Flour 

SWANS DOWN CRACKED WHEAT 

For Mush or Porridge 

and 

PERFECT BISCUIT FLOUR (Self Rising) 
For Dainty White Biscuits 



IGLEHEART BROTHERS 

EVANSVILLE, IND., U. S. A. 



56 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

CHOCOLATE NUT CAKE. 

One pound of English walnuts, reserve forty-two unbroken halves, 
and chop fine the remainder. Beat to a cream one cup of granulated 
sugar and one-half cup of butter. Add two eggs (one at a time), and 
beat well. Stir in alternately one-half cup milk, one and one-half 
cups flour, adding one teaspoon Royal Baking Powder to the last half 
cup of flour. Bake in two layers. Butter a granite kettle, add two 
ounces of grated chocolate, three-fourths cup of light brown sugar and 
one-half cup of milk. Cook to the soft ball stage, add small piece of 
butter; remove from the fire and flavor with vanilla. To one-third of 
this add the chopped nut meats ; stir until cool enough to spread between 
the layers. Cover top and sides, and on top arrange unbroken nut 
meats. Keep icing soft by placing pan in hot water. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

First Part. — One cup sugar, one-half cup sour milk, one-half cup 
butter, one teaspoon soda, two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon 
vanilla, two eggs. 

Second Part. — Two-thirds cup sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, one 
cup chocolate, yolks of two eggs, saving the whites for icing. Cook 
this part and stir when cool in the first part. — Mrs.Wm. Sell. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

Cream. — Three-fourths cup grated chocolate (two squares Baker's 
Chocolate), one-half cup sweet milk, two-thirds cup dark brown sugar, 
and the yolk of one egg. Boil together until like custard and set 
away to cool. 

Cake. — One cup dark brown sugar, one-half cup butter, two cups 
sifted flour, one-half cup sweet milk, two eggs, and flavor with vanilla. 
Beat the cake until light and then add the cream, then add one tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a little warm water. 

Icing. — Take the juice of one lemon and stiffen to the proper con- 
sistency with powdered sugar. — Mary Melrose. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of grated chocolate dissolved in one-half cup of hot coffee, one- 
half cup of sour milk with level teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in it. 
Three eggs beaten separately, three cups of flour. — Mrs. Fred Kivett. 



COFFEE CAKE. 

Two eggs, two cups brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
sour milk, one-half cup strong coffee, three cups flour, scant ; one tea- 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 57 

spoon soda, one teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoon cloves, one-half teaspoon spice, one teaspoon 
chocolate. — Mrs. S. A. Blood. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Cream one-half cup butter and one and one-half cups sugar. To 
this add the yolks of three eggs, three tablespoons of cocoa, one cup of 
water, two cups of flour. Then add the whites of three eggs which 
have been beaten for ten minutes. Flavor with vanilla, and mix in 
two teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder just before placing in oven. 
Two squares of chocolate may be used instead of the cocoa if preferred. 

Filling. — One cup water, one-half cup sugar, two teaspoons corn- 
starch, two teaspoons cocoa. Flavor with vanilla. Cook and put 
between the layers, and ice the cake with plain white icing. — Mary 
Melrose. 



A RHYMING RECIPE. 

If fruit cake good you wish to make, 

The rule below you safely take ; 

And following the same with care — 

You may with confidence compare 

With any that your friends may make. 

Now for the formula of the cake : 

One cup of butter scant you take, 

In a good-sized dish the cake to make; 

One pint of sugar brown and sweet, 

Four eggs now add, be sure to beat; 

One whole nutmeg after you grate, 

One tablespoonful of cassia take, 

Also of cloves three-fourths the same, 

Now one cup of sour milk I must name, 

Four cups of flour, sift several times ; 

This stiffens all and well combines; 

Of currants and raisins take 

One pound of each to make this cake; 

One-quarter pound of citron sliced 

Like shavings — thin and fine as dice, 

The fruit add last, well floured white, 

And then the cake will be all right. 

A dessert spoon of soda add dry; 

Remember not to heap it high. 

Do not neglect to beat all well, 

For in the eating this will tell, 

And now I'm sure you know your lesson, 

But, I will add, eat with discretion. — G. J. Partelow. 



58 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, two eggs, one-half cup of 
milk, one and one-half teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder, two squares 
of unsweetened chocolate, one-half teaspoon vanilla. Bake in two 
layers. 

Filling. — One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of milk, 
two tablespoons butter. Make like fudge and spread between the 
layers, but do not ice top of cake. — 

WHITE AND BROWN RIBBON CAKE. 

White and Brown. — Two cups of granulated sugar, three-fourths 
cup of butter, whites of six eggs, one cup of sweet milk, three and one- 
half cups of flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, 
mix sugar and butter together, then add eggs well beaten, then milk 
and last the flour with baking powder, sifted several times in it, then 
take one-third of this mixture, and add enough cocoa to make dark as 
desired, flavor dark part with vanilla and light part with lemon. Bake 
in two square pans, putting light part on the bottom of pan and dark 
on the top. — Mrs. Fred Kivett. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

Cake Part. — One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup sweet 
milk, three cups flour, whites of five eggs, two teaspoons of Royal Baking 
Powder. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in two good sized cake pans. 

Marshmallow Part. — Two tablespoons gelatin, dissolved in four 
tablespoons of boiling water. Let stand a few moments then add two 
cups pulverized sugar. Beat thirty minutes or until quite stiff. Flavor 
with vanilla and pour in buttered cake tin to mold. Use tin like cake 
is baked in. 

Better make marshmallow day before, so it will be firm. When 
putting cake together, cake part must be cool. Use marshmallow for 
middle layer and frost as if it were cake. 

Frosting Part. — Two cups granulated sugar, a little water; boil 
till it threads. Pour on the well-beaten whites of two eggs. Flavor 
with vanilla and color with fruit coloring if desired. — Mary Crawford. 

ANGEL FILLED CAKES. 

Whites of nine eggs, one and one-fourth cups granulated sugar, 
one cup flour, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, pinch of salt added to 
eggs before whipping. Flavor to taste, bake fifteen minutes. With 
fork remove center of cake and fill with following : One cup rich cream, 
beaten stiff, dissolve one tablespoon gelatin in a little water, one-half 
cup sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, chopped nuts may be added if desired. 
Will make fifteen cakes, in two and one-half inch rings. — Mrs. John 
Harris. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 59 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

Work one cup of butter until very creamy, using a wooden cake 
spoon. Add gradually while stirring and beating constantly, two cups 
of fine granulated sugar. Then add one cup of milk alternately with 
three and one-half cups of pastry flour mixed and sifted with two tea- 
spoons of Royal Baking Powder. Add one teaspoon vanilla and fold 
in the whites of six eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Bake in three 
layers and put between and on top fruit and nut filling. The juice of 
one lemon may be added to mixture of butter and sugar and milk after 
they are creamed together before flour is added. 

Fruit and Nut Filling. — Three cups of granulated sugar, add one 
cup boiling water. Bring to boiling point and let boil until syrup will 
thread when dropped from top of spoon. Pour gradually onto the 
beaten whites of three eggs and beat until nearly of the right con- 
sistency to spread. Add one cup of raisins seeded and one cup of 
chopped pecan nut meats and five figs cut in strips, soak figs in warm 
water, then dry and cut, continue beating until right to spread. — Mrs. 
Mathews. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Whites of twelve eggs, beaten stiff, one cup of flour, one and one- 
third cups of sugar, sift both five or six times. When the eggs are 
almost beaten enough, put in a level spoonful cream of tartar. Beat 
five or ten minutes. Bake about one hour. — Mrs. Arthur Baldwin. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE. 

The whites of ten eggs, a pinch of salt, when about half beaten add 
one level teaspoon of cream of tartar, sift one level cup of flour, one 
and one-fourth cups of sugar together several times and add to the 
eggs. Flavoring. Bake in an ungreased pan in a moderate oven 
from thirty-five to forty minutes or until it shrinks from pan. — Mrs. 
Allen Epworth. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-fourth glass of sugar, one glass 
flour, one scant teaspoon cream tartar; sift sugar and flour five or six 
times. Whip eggs very stiff, add sugar and then flour with cream of 
tartar, sifted with it, and lastly one teaspoon vanilla. — Mrs. Seil. 

ANGEL ROLLS. 

Bake an angel food cake in a pan about twelve by six by three 
inches. Let cool, cut in slices as thin as possible, trim off brown edges. 
Spread each slice with icing, sprinkle with chopped nuts, roll it up, 



60 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

stick through with a toothpick and stand on end. When all are done 
in this way, begin with the first ones and ice outside, rolling in chopped 
nuts. A drop of icing and half a nut make a nice finish for top of roll. 
When icing is set take out sticks. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Six whites of eggs, beaten well, one scant cup of butter, two cups 
of sugar, cream butter and sugar, one cup milk, three cups flour, after 
it is sifted, two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder; flavor to taste. Beat 
well and bake in layers, two or three, as you like. — Mrs. Malcotn East- 
wood. 

MARGARET'S CAKE. 

One and three-fourths cups of granulated sugar, three-fourths cup 
of butter, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour after sifted, two 
slightly heaping teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, whites of eight 
eggs, one teaspoonful each of lemon and vanilla. — Minnie Shaw. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, three of flour, 
whites of five eggs, two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. (Makes a 
nice layer cake). — Mrs. Chester Melrose. 

LEMON CAKE FILLING. 

One whole egg, one cup sugar, grated rind and juice of one lemont 
one tablespoon of butter, cook in double boiler until thick. — Mrs. W. H- 
Robinson. 

WHITE CAKE WITH FILLING. 

Whites of five eggs, beaten stiff, two cups sugar, one scant cup of 
butter; cream sugar and butter together, one cup new milk, three and 
one-half cups flour, sifted well with two teaspoons (Royal Baking Pow- 
der, and flavor to suit taste. 

For Filling. — Take whites of two eggs; beat very stiff; then boil 
one cup of sugar in one-half cup of boiling water until it will thread, 
then pour over the beaten eggs and whip it into a smooth creamy puff; 
add to this one-half can of grated pineapple. After layers cool, spread 
the filling between the three layers. — Mrs. Elmer A. Reese. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup water, one cup corn starch, 
two cups flour, whites of eight eggs, two teaspoons baking powder; 
flavor with almond. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 61 

BLACK CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup sweet milk, one cup butter, three 
cups flour, two eggs, one cup seeded raisins, one teaspoon soda, two of 
cinnamon, one of cloves and allspice and one nutmeg. 

CRANBERRY CAKE. 

Cream one-half cup butter and one and one-half cups sugar to- 
gether; add four tablespoons of sour milk, one teaspoon soda and same 
of Royal Baking Powder, two cups of flour, one and one-half cups of 
cranberry jelly or jam, one teaspoon cinnamon, cloves, allspice and a 
whole nutmeg (ground). Bake in two layers, using a white filling. 
Put cranberries in last. — Mrs. James Vincent. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Three eggs (whites only) ; beat very stiff, one whole egg^ one scant 
cup butter, creamed well into two cups of sugar, one cup milk, three 
and one-fourth cups flour, two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder sifted 
into flour well. Mix and bake in three layers. I always flavor with 
vanilla. 

Filling for above Cake. — One grated rind of lemon with juice, one 
cup of sugar, butter size of an egg; cook in double boiler until like cus- 
tard; let cool and spread on layers as deep as you like, or use all. If 
lemon is small, use two instead of one. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 

Whites of twelve eggs, three cups of sugar, small cup of butter, 
one cup of sweet milk, four cups of flour, half cup of corn starch and two 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Flavor with lemon or rose. 

MRS. SHUMARD'S ANGEL FOOD. 

Put a heaping tablespoon of cornstarch in bottom of horseshoe 
tumbler, then fill with flour, one and one-half scant glasses of sugar, 
one full teaspoon of cream of tartar; put all into sifter together and 
sift five times. Add to whites of eleven eggs, well beaten, one teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake from forty minutes to one hour. Do not open oven 
the first twenty minutes. 

BELVIDERE CREAM CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, one 
and three-fourths cups of flour, two eggs, one-half teaspoon soda and 
one teaspoon cream of tartar. For the cream take one cup milk, one- 



62 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

fourth cup flour, one-half cup sugar, one egg, pinch of salt. Mix egg, 
flour and sugar with part of the milk and stir into the other part of 
the milk hot. Flavor. 

SNOW CAKE. 

One-half teacup butter, one cup sugar, one and one-half cup of 
flour, one-half cup of sweet milk, whites of four eggs, one teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder. Delicious. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two-thirds cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk and water, 
whites of seven eggs, three and one-half cups flour, three teaspoonfuls 
Royal Baking Powder. Beat hard for five minutes after it is mixed. 

Icing. — Boil two cups sugar in one cup water till it threads, pour 
over beaten whites of two eggs. — Mrs. J. B. Jolly. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
one-half teaspoon vanilla, three rounding teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, three cups flour, whites of eight eggs. Cream butter and sugar 
until very light, then add the milk, sift flour and baking powder three 
times, and add alternately with whites of eggs which have been beaten 
very stiff. Add vanilla and bake in moderate oven. — Elsie Crawford. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Dark Part. — One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
sour milk, one-half teaspoon soda, yolks of four eggs, two and one- 
half cups flour, cinnamon, cloves and allspice. 

White Part. — One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup sweet milk, whites of four eggs, two and one-half cups 
flour, one heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, vanilla flavoring. 

CRUMB CAKE. 

Rub one-half cupful butter into one cupful flour, to which has 
been added one cupful of sugar, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-fourth 
teaspoonful grated nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful salt, set aside one- 
half cupful of the mixture for top and bottom. To the remainder add 
one cupful flour, one-half cupful sour milk and a teaspoon of soda, 
bake in slow oven. — Miss Lanterman. 

ONE EGG CAKE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cup sugar, one egg, two cups 
flour, three teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, one large cup of milk. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 63 

Mix butter to a cream. Add sugar and egg (unbeaten). Beat mix- 
ture well. Next add flour and baking powder, stir in milk and beat 
all together. — Mrs. A. L. Patterson. 

EGGLESS CAKE. 

One cup each of sugar, sour milk and raisins, two cups of flour, 
one-half cup of butter, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoon 
cloves, one-half grated nutmeg, cream butter and sugar, add raisins, 
spices, milk and flour into which one level teaspoon of soda has been 
sifted. — Flora Reese. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, creamed, one cup sugar, one egg beaten light, 
one cup milk, two cups of flour, one and one-half teaspoons Royal Bak- 
ing Powder, mixed in order given. 

Icing. — Three cups of sugar, three-fourths cup of cold water, let 
stand until dissolved. Boil slowly until it threads from spoon. Then 
beat stiff the whites of three eggs and pour mixture into whites, stirring 
all the time, until well mixed. — Chloe Melrose. 

JAM CAKE. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup of butter or lard, one and one- 
half cups sweet milk, two eggs, one cup jam, one tablespoon chocolate, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, three 
cups sifted flour. Can be either layer or loaf. — Mrs. Dozier. 

GLENDALE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One small cup butter, two cups coffee A sugar, one-half cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, one cake sweet chocolate, grated, four eggs (both 
yolks and whites), one teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Flavor with 
lemon. Bake in two layers. 

Filling. — Three cups coffee A sugar, one cup of water, boil until 
brittle, or hairs, then pour over whites of three well beaten eggs, and 
stir until cold. — Mary Melrose. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two cups flour, one- 
half cup sour milk and one teaspoon soda. Cook until begins to 
thicken, two-thirds cup L. B. sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, two- 
thirds cup chocolate, yolks of two eggs, and when cool stir in part one. 
Use the two whites for icing. — Mrs. Seil. 



64 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sour apple sauce, one 
teaspoon of soda, dissolved and stirred into sauce. One level teaspoon 
cloves, one level teaspoon cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoon nutmeg, 
one-fourth teaspoon salt, one cup of raisins, two cups of flour. — Mrs. W. 
H. Robinson. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, two and one-half cups flour, three rounded 
tablespoons butter, one level teaspoon salt, two teaspoons cocoa, two 
teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one cup raisins, two cups 
unsweetened apple sauce, stewed dry, two level teaspoons soda in 
sauce. Stir all together. — Mrs. E. E. St. John. 

CHOCOLATE FRUIT CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups 
sugar, two cups flour (heaping tablespoon extra), two large teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, four eggs, four ounces chocolate, dissolved in 
five teaspoons of water, one cup fruit and one cup nuts. — Mrs. Elmer 
Reese. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Light Part. — Whites of four eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sugar, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder, and flavoring. 

Dark Part. — Yolks of four eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sorghum molasses, one-half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one 
teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, flavor with mixed spices. — Besse Vin- 
cent. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one teaspoon of 
soda, dissolved in one-half cup sour milk, three-fourths cup chocolate, 
grated and dissolved in one-half cup boiling water, three cups of flour 
and two eggs. Ice with chocolate or white icing. — Mrs. Evert Adams. 

SIX MINUTE CAKE. 

Break the whites of two eggs in a cup, fill to one-half with soft 
butter, fill to top with sweet milk. Sift together three times one cup 
sugar, one and one-half cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons of baking 
powder. Put all together and stir six minutes. Bake carefully. — 
Mrs. W. H. Robinson. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 65 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, whites of five eggs, three 
cups flour, one cup milk, one cup nuts, three teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder and cream butter and sugar, add milk, flour and baking powder 
and eggs well beaten; add nuts last. Bake in layers and put together 
with nuts and caramel. 

COCOA NUT CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, creamed, yolks of three 
eggs, one cup of milk, three cups flour, two teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, beaten whites of the eggs, one-half teaspoon vanilla. — Mrs. 
Schoeneman. 

MOCHA CAKE. 

Two eggs, beaten light; one cup sugar beaten slowly into the eggs. 
Put one teaspoon cream of tartar and one-half teaspoon soda into one- 
half cup flour. Sift together several times. Add one-half cup boiling 
milk, into which has been melted one tablespoonful of butter. Add a 
pinch of salt and flavoring. 

Filling. — One-fourth cup butter, creamed with one heaping cupful 
of powdered sugar. Two teaspoons strong coffee, two teaspoons of 
cocoa. One teaspoon vanilla. Beat thoroughly and spread. — Mrs. F. 
H. Enderson, Chicago. 

NUT CAKE. 

A cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one sweet milk, whites 
of seven and yolks of two eggs, a teaspoon soda, two of cream of tartar, 
one pint nut meats, rolled and sprinkled with flour. Beat the whites 
to a stiff froth. 

PLUM CAKE. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, two and one-half cups flour, one 
cup raisins, one egg f one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful each soda, cin- 
namon, cloves, nutmeg, and extract of lemon. — Mrs. A. D. Nash. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, three-fourths cup hot water, two cups 
flour, one teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Cream yolks of eggs and 
sugar, gradually add water and flour, then whites of eggs, beaten stiff. 
Flavor with vanilla. Bake in moderate oven. — Mrs. W. H. Robinson. 



66 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, one teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, if too thick, thin with a little sweet milk. Bake in 
dripping pan and spread with jelly and roll. — Mrs. Fred Kivett. 

TWO EGG CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, whites of two eggs, one-half cup 
butter, two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, one cup of milk or water, 
one teaspoon of vanilla. Butter and sugar creamed together, whip 
eggs, put powder in flour, add milk, and enough flour to make stiff. 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

Kings, chapter IV, verse 22, four and a half cups; Judges, chapter 
V, verse 25, one cup; Judges, chapter IV, verse 19, one-half cup; 
Jeremiah, chapter VI, verse 20, two cups; Nahum, chapter III, verse 12, 
two cups; Numbers, chapter XVII, verse 8, two cups; First Samuel, 
chapter XXX, verse 12, two cups; First Samuel, chapter XIV, verse 25, 
two tablespoonf uls ; Amos, chapter IV, verse 5, two teaspoonf uls ; 
Jeremiah, chapter XVII, verse 11, six teaspoonf uls ; a pinch of Leviticus, 
chapter 11, verse 13; season to taste with 11 Chronicles, chapter IX, 
verse 19. 



DAINTIEST MENUS 

ARE NOW BEING PREPARED "ELECTRIC 



We are demonstrating the following: 

Electric Coffee Percolator Electric Cooking and Heating 

Electric Bread Toaster Stoves 

Electric Hot Plates (all sizes) Electric Fireless Cooker 

Electric Chafing Dish 
Electric Radiant Grill which will BOIL, BROIL, FRY, TOAST. 

Just the things for a hasty meal, or the unexpected guest. 

We also carry a complete stock of electrical fixtures and do 
wiring. 



A. L. SWAN SON CO.. 

316 U. SECOND BT. EVANSVILLE, IND. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 67 



Cookies 



If Hwere done when His done, 
Then Hwere well Hwere done quickly. 

FRUIT COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, three eggs, one cup butter, one tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one cup of 
raisins, chopped fine and flour to make a stiff dough. — Mrs. N. Lichner. 

ORANGE COOKIES. 

Two cups granulated sugar, one cup sour milk, and one of butter 
or lard, one teaspoon soda, one-fourth teaspoon salt, one egg and the 
juice and grated rind of one orange. Stir the ingredients well together 
and add enough flour to make a soft dough. Cut and bake in a quick 
oven. — Mary Crawford. 

COOKIES WITH RAISIN FILLING. 

Beat to a cream one cup sugar, one-half cup shortening, add one- 
half cup sweet milk, one beaten egg, three and one-half cups flour, 
sifted with three teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. 

For Filling. — Mix three-fourths cup sugar and one tablespoon flour, 
add one cup of chopped raisins; cook all together until thickened.Roll 
cookies very thin, put teaspoonful of raisins on each and another 
cookie on top. 

WHITE HOUSE COOKIES. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs, two teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, two tablespoons cream, two teaspoons vanilla, and 
flour enough to roll. Reserve whites of eggs, beat until stiff and brush 
over dough and sprinkle sugar over before cutting. — Mrs. J. M. Mit- 
chell, Mi. Carmely III. 

COCOANUT DAINTIES. 

Beat whites of two eggs very light, add one-half cup granulated 
sugar, beating all the while, flavor to suit taste. Place about one tea- 
spoonful on cracker, sprinkle with cocoanut, bake in moderate oven 
until browned slightly. — Mrs. C. L. Naney. 



68 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

BROWN SUGAR COOKIES. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon Royal Baking Powder and flour to make 
stiff. — Vera Johns. 

MOCK MACAROONS. 

Four whole eggs, one and one-half cups granulated sugar. Stir 
this together and put on stove in pan of hot water until it steams when 
stirred, then remove and let cool a little, then add two teaspoons cin- 
namon, one-half level teaspoon cloves, a pinch of ginger, two cups 
chopped nuts, two cups flour, two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. 
Drop with teaspoon in baking pan, not close, as they spread in baking. — 
Mrs. Sam Helck. 

COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup lard, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one-half cup sour milk, one egg, two level tea- 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, pinch of soda and lemon extract. — Mrs. 
Evert Adams. 

ENGLISH COOKIES. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup butter and lard, one cup cold 
coffee, two eggs, one level teaspoon soda, one heaping teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, sifted in three cups flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon nutmeg and two cups seeded raisins. — Miss Corrina Batson. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs (one more yolk is 
an improvement), four tablespoons sour milk, three-fourths teaspoon 
soda, two cups flour, one cup raisins, two cups dry rolled oats. Spread 
about three-fourths inch thick in large pan. When done cut in squares. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

One cup cocoanut, one cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one egg, 
three tablespoons milk, one and one-half teaspoons Royal Baking Pow- 
der, pinch of salt and enough flour to roll. — Mrs. S. H. Melrose. 

ALMOND TARTE. 

One pound almonds, grated; one pound sugar, twelve eggs, rind 
of lemon, pinch of salt, one-fourth teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. 
Beat one hour. Bake in slow oven one hour. — Mrs. N. M. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 69 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Three-fourths cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, three-fourths 
cup sour milk, three-fourths teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt, 
two cups flour, three cups flaked oatmeal, one cup raisins, chopped, 
and one-half cup nuts. Bake in moderate oven. — Mrs. James Vin- 
cent. 

SHAVINGS. 

Two eggs, two tablespoons of sugar, two tablespoons of cream, a 
little salt, flour to roll out as thin as noodles, cut them a half inch wide; 
twist into all kinds of shapes and fry in deep lard to a light brown, 
flavor with vanilla. Sprinkle with fine sugar as soon as they come out 
of lard— Mrs. N. M . 

ROCK COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups light brown sugar, one cup melted butter, 
three eggs, well beaten separately, one teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in hot water, one pinch salt, two and one-half 
cups flour, one pound chopped English walnuts, three-fourths pound 
chopped raisins. Drop off spoon and bake slowly. 

HERMITS. 

(Small Cakes Similar to Rocks.) 

One cup of sour cream, two cups brown sugar, one cup chopped 
raisins, two-thirds cup butter, two beaten eggs, one teaspoon each, soda, 
cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg; flour to make as stiff as can be stirred. 
Drop by tablespoonfuls on well buttered pan, leaving plenty of room 
for them to spread. — Mrs. T. H. Enderson, Chicago. 

ROCKS. 

Three eggs, well beaten; one cup butter, one and one-half cups 
brown sugar, three-quarters pound raisins, one quarter pound English 
walnuts, in fine pieces, two cups flour, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
hot water. Drop teaspoonful on a buttered pan and bake slowly. — 
Mrs. T. H. Enderson, Chicago. 

ROCKS. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, one and one-half 
cups raisins (chopped fine), three and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one teaspoon soda, dissolved in little hot water, two table- 
spoons sweet milk, one pound walnuts (chopped). Turn dripping pan 
bottom side up, drop spoonful and bake. Something really nice. — 
Besse Vincent. 



70 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

ROCKS. 

Scant cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, three eggs, not sepa- 
rated, one and one half cups raisins, one-half pound nuts, three cups 
flour, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon soda, dissolved 
in two tablespoons of watei. Grease pans first time; drop off end of 
knife. Bake until a rich brown. — Mrs. F. C. Naney. 

PECAN WAFERS. 

Beat two eggs without separating, beat in one cup sifted brown 
sugar, one teaspoon vaniUa and three level tablespoons flour sifted 
with one-fourth teaspoon each of salt and Royal Baking Powder. 
Lastly beat in a cup of pecan meats. Spread the mixture on buttered 
baking sheets, put whole nuts on top, bake in moderate oven five or 
ten minutes. — Mrs. W. H. Robinson. 

GEM CAKES. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, two eggs, four tablespoons 
grated chocolate, dissolved in two tablespoons of boiling water, one and 
one-half cups of flour, one heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 
pinch of salt, one-half cup of water. Bake in gem pans. 

DAINTY CAKES. 

Three tablespoons of thick cream, two tablespoons butter, one 
tablespoon lard, one-half teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, a few drops 
vanilla or lemon and flour enough to make quite stiff. Roll as thin as 
possible in sugar and cut in any desired shape. 

FIG DROP CAKES. 

Two eggs, two cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup chopped figs, 
one-half cup butter, one-fourth cup milk, three-fourths teaspoon vanilla; 
cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks, which have been beaten for 
several minutes. Pour in milk, sift in flour and beat all smooth; add 
figs and vanilla, fold in the stiffly beaten whites and the Royal Baking 
Powder, two teaspoons; drop from teaspoon, leaving room to spread. 
Bake for eight minutes. 

Alternate layers of chopped cabbage and cracker crumbs seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter. Cover with sweet milk and bake. 

OATMEAL CAKES. 

One cup butter, or one-half cup lard and one-half cup butter, one 
cup sugar, one teaspoon cinnamon, one cup sour milk, one level tea- 
spoon soda, one egg, one cup raisins and currants mixed, two cups 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 71 

cracked oats, two cups flour. Drop on pans, size of a walnut, one inch 
apart. If sweet milk is used, use two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. 
These have a nut flavor. — Florence Melrose. 

OATMEAL WAFERS. 

Twelve ounces light brown sugar, three-fourths cup lard and 
butter, two eggs, two cups sifted flour, one-half teaspoon salt, three- 
fourths teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half pound raisins, 
three and one-half cups oatmeal. Take silver fork and mix well to- 
gether. Pat in cakes and bake as cookies. In a covered receptacle 
these will keep indefinitely. — Mrs. A. S. Toops. 

COCOANUT BALLS. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-third cup boiling water, one- 
fourth pound shredded cocoanut, white of one egg and lemon flavoring. 
Boil water and sugar without stirring until the syrup threads; pour 
over the well beaten white of egg and beat until nearly stiff, flavor; 
mix with the cocoanut quickly and shape into balls. — Besse Vincent. 

LEMON CRACKERS. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, one cup lard, one pint sweet milk, 
two eggs, five cents worth oil of lemon and five cents worth baker's 
ammonia, dissolved in one-half cup warm water about one hour before 
mixing with flour very stiff. Pound one-half hour. Roll very thin; 
bake in hot oven. — Mrs. A. L. Patterson. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons of melted butter, one- 
half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoons of cream of tartar, one teaspoon 
of soda, pinch of salt, little nutmeg and cinnamon. — Mrs. Byron Craw- 
ford. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sugar, one cup milk, one cup potatoes, mashed; two and 
one-half teaspoons baking powder, spices and two tablespoons melted 
lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Sift together one quart flour, two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
one cup sugar, one egg, one tablespoon melted butter, one-third tea- 
spoon salt, teaspoon lemon or vanilla, add sweet milk to make soft 
dough, roll, cut out and fry in hot fat, when cooked roll in sugar. — 
Elsie Crawford. 



72 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, one 
teaspoon butter, two teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, flavor with 
lemon or nutmeg. — Mary Melrose. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sugar, three eggs, one cup sour milk, pinch salt, teaspoon 
cinnamon, enough flour to make stiff dough, teaspoon soda. When 
done roll in sugar. — Mrs. Dozier. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Boil and mash five medium-sized potatoes, one and one-half cups 
of sugar, two eggs, one scant cup of milk, three teaspoons of melted 
butter, four teaspoons baking powder, a pinch of salt and nutmeg. 
Fry in hot lard. — Mrs. S. T. Spring. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sugar, one cup sour milk, one egg, one teaspoon soda, one 
tablespoon butter, one pinch salt, nutmeg and cinnamon. Mix soft, 
add teaspoon vinegar to prevent them taking grease. — Mrs. C. H. 
Wright. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Three large potatoes boiled and mashed with lump of butter size 
of an egg, beat until smooth, three eggs, beaten separately, one and 
one-half cups sugar, pinch of salt, nutmeg to taste, two teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, three cups of flour; stir in and add enough more 
to roll out. Fry in deep lard, smoking hot; drain on paper, roll in pow- 
dered sugar. — Mrs. Mathews. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One cup each of molasses, butter, sugar and sour cream or milk. 
One tablespoon each of soda and ginger, four cups flour. Cream the 
butter and sugar, add three lightly beaten eggs, then the other ingre- 
dients. Bake in a slow oven. 

GOOD GINGERBREAD. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup sour 
milk, two and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons soda, two teaspoons 
ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon allspice and four eggs. — 
Mrs. Seil. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 73 

GINGERBREAD. 

One-half cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of lard, one cup of molas- 
ses, two eggs, two teaspoons of ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, one cup 
boiling water, two level teaspoons of soda and two and one-half cups 
flour. Bake in moderate oven. Line bottom of pans with thin, greased 
paper to prevent burning and sticking. Put layers together with icing. 
— Flora Evelyn Reese. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD WITH SOUR MILK. 

One cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one cup sugar, 
two and one-half cups flour, before sifted, four eggs, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, one teaspoon ginger, two teaspoons soda. Make just as cake, 
cream butter and sugar, sift flour several times, etc. Bake in a deep 
pan. Leave in pan until cold. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Three cups flour, one-half cup milk, one-half cup lard, one and one- 
half cups molasses (New Orleans or sorghum), one teaspoon soda, two 
eggs, one tablespoon of ginger. Beat the yolks of eggs and the lard 
together, then add milk, soda and molasses; add ginger and flour. 
Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add them carefully. Bake in a moderate 
oven three-fourths of an hour. — Mrs. Sam Blair. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One cup sugar, one of butter, one of New Orleans molasses, one of 
sour milk, two eggs, one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
and one of soda, dissolved in hot water. Take four or five cups of 
flour; don't make it too thick; stir the spices, sugar, butter and molasses 
together, keeping the mixture slightly warmed, then add the milk, then 
the eggs, beaten very light, then the soda and lastly the flour. Beat 
it long and well, and bake in large buttered pan. If you desire, add 
raisins or currants or both. — Mrs. J. G. Harmon. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Five cups flour, one-half cup granulated sugar, one and one-half 
cups molasses, one-half cup of lard, two level teaspoons of soda, dis- 
solved in one-eighth cup of hot water, one and one-half tablespoons 
ginger, two teaspoons cinnamon and one teaspoon cloves. Bake in 
hot oven. — Mrs. Fred Kivett. 



74 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 



Pies 

BANANA PIE. 

Make a custard as follows: Mix together the yolks of two eggs, 
beaten till light, and one tablespoon cornstarch. Add this to half a 
pint of boiling milk (or water) sweetened to taste; stir till cooked and 
let cool. Slice two medium-sized bananas, mix in the custard and 
place in a previously baked crust. Ice with the whites of the eggs. — 
Mary Cadwell Barnett. 

GRAPE PIE. 

Two cups seeded grapes, two cups sugar, yolks of four eggs, two 
tablespoons flour; cover with whites of four eggs. Make a rich crust, 
and don't roll too thin. This makes two pies. — Mrs. Maud Johnson, 
Harrisburg, III. 

BANANA CREAM PIE. 

Yolks of two eggs, one-half cup sugar, a small piece butter, one 
teaspoon cornstarch, one pint milk (put milk on to scald, add rest and 
cook until thick). Put layer of cream in crust, then layer of bananas, 
then cream, and frost with whites of two eggs. — Mrs. E. C. Bradshaw, 
Albion, III. 

CREAM PIE. 

Yolks of two eggs, one pint sweet milk, one-half cup sugar, one 
tablespoon flour, one teaspoon butter, and flavor with vanilla. Bake 
the shell first and then add the cream. — Mary Melrose. 

RHUBARB MERINGUE PIE. 

Mix together one and one-half cups sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
flour, and a pinch of salt. Add the slightly beaten yolks of two eggs 
and three cups of finely chopped rhubarb. Stir well, turn into a pie 
plate lined with rich paste, and bake in moderate oven. When done, 
beat the whites to a stiff froth with two tablespoons sugar, spread 
roughly over pie and brown slightly. — Mrs. A. L. Patterson. 

GRAPE CUSTARD PIE. 

Two eggs, saving white of one for top, one tablespoon flour, one 
tablespoon butter, one cup sugar, one cup grapes, whole or mashed. 
Beat eggs, flour, butter, and sugar together, then stir in the grapes. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 75 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One cup grated cocoanut, two teaspoons flour. Mix with one cup 
milk or water, place on stove, stir until thickens, add one tablespoon 
butter, while warm. When cool, add a little salt, yolks of two eggs, 
one small cup of sugar, add the cocoanut, beating all together. Fill 
the crust and bake. Beat whites with three tablespoons powdered 
sugar, spread on the top, return to oven and brown slightly. — Bertha 
Hardy. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One or two eggs, one cup of old fashioned brown sugar, one cup of 
pumpkin, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon of ginger, 
one -half teaspoon of salt, milk as thin as desired. Bake in moderate 
oven. When nearly done lift to the upper shelf to make rich brown. — 
Mrs. B. F. Batson. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Two large tablespoons of Baker's chocolate or cocoa, one pint of 
water, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons cornstarch, six tablespoons 
of sugar. Boil until thick. One teaspoon vanilla. Pour in a baked 
crust. Put beaten whites on top and brown. — Mrs. A. L. Patterson. 

CHEESE CAKE PIE. 

Three cups curd, one-half box currants, two cups sugar, five eggs, 
saving the whites of four for tops, two pints sweet milk, lump of butter 
size of an egg. Flavor with lemon. Enough for three pies. — Mrs. C. 
H. Wright. 

BANANA PIE. 

Bake the crust first: Slice two bananas in this crust, make a filling 
as follows, and pour over the bananas: Put one-half cup sugar in cup of 
boiling milk, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoons flour, mix to a paste, 
and put in the boiling milk. Let cook until it thickens. Use the 
whites for the top. — Mrs. Addie Melrose. 

PATTIE SHELLS. 

Two cups flour, one cup shortening (one-half butter and one-half 
lard), one cup water, mix and bake. 

CREAM PIE. 

A scant cup of sugar, yolks of two eggs, three tablespoons flour, 
three cups milk for two pies, teaspoonful butter. Bake crust first. — 
Mrs. C. H. Wright. 



76 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

DELICIOUS LEMON PIE. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup sugar, the yolks 
of two eggs, three tablespoons flour, one cup milk. Line the plate with 
paste; pour in the custard, bake until done. Beat the whites of two 
eggs and add four tablespoons sugar; spread this over the pie and let 
it brown in the oven. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Grate one cocoanut, add one pint milk, three eggs, one cup sugar 
and little salt. Add the cocoanut milk. 

CREAM PIE. 

Cake Part. — One-fourth cup water with three-fourths cup sugar; 
add the beaten yolk of one egg, one cup flour in which has been mixed 
one teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, add beaten white of egg, flavor 
with vanilla, or almond and bake in one tin. 

Custard for Filling. — Put one scant pint of milk in double boiler, 
when warm add the beaten yolks of two eggs, one-half cup sugar, table- 
spoon butter and thicken with two tablespoons flour. When ready to 
remove from fire, pour the custard over the well-beaten whites of two 
eggs, flavor with vanilla. Split the cake part, when cold fill with, cus- 
tard, replace the upper half sprinkle top with powdered sugar. This 
is better the second day. 

CHESS PIE. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, butter size of an egg, flavor with nutmeg. 
Enough for one pie. — Mrs. Evert Adams. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Two eggs, one cup milk, pumpkin enough to thicken, sweeten to 
taste and flavor with mixed spices. — Mrs. Evert Adams. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One cup boiling water, one-half cup butter, one cup flour. Stir 
the butter and flour into the boiling water, set aside to cool, then add 
three whole eggs. Mix together well. Drop in greased pan about one 
tablespoonful for each puff. Bake in moderate oven from thirty to 
forty minutes. 

Filling. — One egg, one cup sweet milk, one-half cup sugar. Cook 
and thicken with flour. Flavor to taste. — Mrs. A . S. Toops. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 77 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE. 

Two cups brown sugar, two tablespoons butter, let boil, one cup 
milk, one cup water, two tablespoons cornstarch, yolks of three eggs, 
beat all, cook until thick. Put whites on top and brown in oven. This 
makes two pies. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE. 

One cupful of brown sugar, three tablespoons of water, butter 
size of an egg. Yolks of two eggs, three tablespoons of flour, one cup of 
milk, flavor with vanilla. Cook until it thickens, so it will not burn. 
Beat the whites of the two eggs, sweeten and spread on pie and 
brown slightly. — Alleen Wilson. 

AMBER PIE. 

One cup jam (or any kind of fruit butter), one cup sour cream, 
one-half cup sugar, butter size of an egg, yolks of three eggs, teaspoon 
vanilla, tablespoon cornstarch, or flour. Boil until like jelly. Pour 
in baked crusts and put beaten whites on top and brown. Use apple 
butter instead of jam: one and one-half cups apple butter sweetened to 
taste and a little more flour or cornstarch. This makes three pies. — 
Selected. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE. 

Melt one heaping tablespoon of butter and one cup brown sugar 
together. Have ready one cup of milk, yolks of two eggs, one-half 
cup of flour, pinch of salt, beaten together; stir in butter and sugar and 
cook till thick; when cool pour into baked crust, cover top with meringue 
made with the whites of the two eggs. — Mrs. W. G. W heater oft. 

CREAM PIE. 

One pint milk, yolks of three eggs, three-fourths cup sugar, three 
tablespoons flour, one tablespoon butter, pinch salt; boil until it thickens, 
flavor and put into a crust already baked. Put the whites on top. — 
Mrs. W. G. Wheatcroft. 

WHIPPED CREAM PIE. 

Sweeten one teacup very thick cream; make as cold as possible 
without freezing. Flavor to taste. Beat until light and keep cool. 
Make moderately rich crust, prick well with fork to prevent blistering 
and bake. Spread on the cream with bits of jelly on top. This makes 
two pies. 



78 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

VINEGAR PIE. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, one tablespoon flour, a little nutmeg. 
Beat well. Add one cup of water and one tablespoon vinegar. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Boil two good-sized potatoes until nearly done. Have pie tin 
lined with crust, slice over it the potatoes, and add bits of butter, 
half cup sugar; dust with ground cinnamon. Finish with upper crust. 
To be eaten hot. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

One-half cup melted butter, one cup hot water; boil together in 
double kettle. While boiling stir in cup flour, take off and let cool, 
then stir two eggs in, alternately, then drop in buttered tins. Bake in 
hot oven. Flavor to taste. 

Filling. — Cook one cup milk, one egg and one-half cup sugar. 
Thicken with cornstarch or flour. — Mrs. M. Eastwood. 

GREEN TOMATO MINCEMEAT. 

Chop fine, four quarts green tomatoes, drain off juice, cover with 
cold water, boil thirty minutes, drain; par-boil three times. Add two 
pounds brown sugar, one pound raisins, one-half pound citron, one cup 
suet, one tablespoon salt, one-half cup strong vinegar. Mix and cook 
till thick. When cold, add one teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and 
nutmeg, to suit taste. 

LEMON PIE. 

Yolks of two eggs, two heaping tablespoons flour. Mix to a 
paste with cold water, then put on the stove and add about one -half 
pint boiling water. To this paste add one scant cup granulated sugar, 
juice and grated rind of one-half of a lemon, pinch of salt, small lump 
of butter. Mix all well together. Have pie pan lined with pastry, 
put mixture in while hot and bake in moderate oven. Beat the whites 
to a stiff froth and sweeten. When the pie is done, cover with frosting 
and brown. This makes one pie. — Mrs. A . S. Toops. 

LEMON PIE. 

Four eggs, juice of one and one-half lemons, one-half cup sugar, (a 
little more sugar, if you don't like it tart). Separate the whites and 
yolks, add sugar and lemon to the yolks; boil until thick, stir con- 
stantly. Whip whites to a stiff froth and pour and stir over mixture 
when done, then pour into crusts, which have been baked. Set in 
oven just long enough to brown. This makes one large pie. — Mrs. T. 
H. Land. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 79 

LEMON PIE. 

One large lemon, one cup sugar, five eggs, (whites of three saved 
for tops,) two tablespoons flour wet in cold water, two cups boiling 
water. Enough for two pies. — Mrs. Jolly. 

LEMON PIE. 

Stir one tablespoon of cornstarch in a little cold water, add a cup 
of boiling water, let boil, then add seven tablespoons of sugar, the well 
beaten yolks of four eggs, the grated rind and juice of two lemons, put 
in crust and bake. Beat whites of four eggs, one heaping tablespoon 
of pulverized sugar to a stiff froth, put on top of pie and return to oven 
and bake a delicate brown. — Mrs. G. D. Mathews. 

AMBER PIE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups sour milk, two 
tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, two teaspoons vinegar, 
one-fourth teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, yolks of four 
eggs, one teacup ground raisins. Then put meringue on top. This 
quantity makes two pies. — Mrs. A. Blood. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

One cup cranberries, cut in two. Put in a bowl of cold water to 
wash out seeds. One tablespoon of flour, one-half cup seeded raisins, 
one cup sugar. Mix flour and sugar, remove berries, add one-half cup 
hot water, a little salt and one teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in two 
crusts. — Mrs. W. H. Robinson. 

GREEN TOMATO MINCEMEAT. 

Chop a peck of green tomatoes fine and drain an hour in a col- 
ander. Put them into a preserving kettle, with five pounds of brown 
sugar, two cups of boiled cider and half cup of vinegar. Cook until 
the tomatoes are done and clear. Then add two pounds of raisins, 
stoned and halved; two tablespoons of cinnamon, one each of allspice, 
cloves and nutmeg. Finally, stir in a dash of salt. Bring all to a 
boil; pour into small jars boiling hot, and seal. In the winter when 
you go to make your pies, add the liquor from sweet pickles or from any 
kind of preserved fruit. Chopped apples will improve it greatly. — Mrs. 
Wm. Martin. 

RAISIN PIE. 

One cup raisins, one cup sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons vinegar, 
one cup of sour cream, bake in two crusts for two pies. — Mrs. Dozier. 



80 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

BOSTON CREAM PIE. 

Take any good pastry and bake shells. 

Filling for two pies: One pint sweet milk, two-thirds cup sugar, 
three tablespoons flour, pinch of salt, lump of butter the size of an egg 
and the well beaten yolks of three eggs. Cook well and add to shells 
and cover with the beaten whites. — Mrs. Huebner. 

CREAM PIE. 

Take two-thirds cup sugar, two eggs, a rounding tablespoon flour 
and beat all together until creamy. Melt a lump of butter the size of 
an egg, add and beat again. Add two-thirds pint of rich milk, flavor 
with lemon or vanilla and bake in one crust in a moderate oven. 

PRUNE CUSTARD PIE. 

Cook prunes without sugar until they leave the seed easily. Line 
a pie plate with rich pastry and put in a good thick layer of seeded 
prunes. Make a custard with one-half cup sugar, yolks of two eggs 
and one pint milk; pour over and bake until custard is set. Have the 
whites of eggs beaten stiff with one tablespoon sugar and one teaspoon 
vanilla extract. Spread on pie and put back in oven to brown. — Mrs. 
Sam Helck. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

One cup of brown sugar, yolks of two eggs, one tablespoon flour, 
one tablespoon butter, one teaspoon vanilla, one cup sour cream. 
Bake in slow oven. When baked take beaten whites of two eggs, one 
tablespoon of sugar. Spread on top, put back in oven and brown. — 
Bertrude Potter, Harrisburg, Illinois. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Bake two shells in deep pie pan, and fill with following mixture: 
Two cups milk, three-fourths cup sugar, one box cocoanut. Let come 
to a boil and add two tablespoons (heaping) flour and enough water to 
make thin batter. Add this to milk, sugar and cocoanut, and let cook 
till it thickens. Add the beaten whites of two eggs after you take off 
stove. Fill shells and ice. — Mrs. George Mussett. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One pint pumpkin, one pint milk, one cup sugar, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one-half teaspoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cinnamon and 
two eggs. — Irene Batson. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 81 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One or two eggs, one cup of old fashioned brown sugar, one cup 
of pumpkin, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon ginger and 
one-half teaspoon salt. Milk as thin, as desired. Bake in moderate 
oven. When nearly done lift to the upper shelf to make a rich brown. — 
Mrs. B. F. Batson. 

CREAM PIE. 

Two cups of milk, heaping tablespoon flour, two eggs, two table- 
spoons sugar and flavoring. Bake crust separate. — Mrs. B. F. Batson. 

LEMON PIE. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup lemon juice, one tablespoon 
flour, one tablespoon butter, one cup hot water. Use whites of eggs 
for icing. Bake crust separate. — Mrs. B. F. Batson. 

LEMON PIE. 

One tablespoon butter, creamed with one cup of sugar, the grated 
rind of one lemon, three eggs, reserving whites of two for meringue. 

Three tablespoons cream, mix well, then add juice of one lemon, 
strained. Bake in rich paste in slow oven. — Mrs. Hattie Staley Craig, 
Dallas, Texas. 

BANANA PIE. 

Mix sugar and flour in bottom of crust, add one tablespoon vinegar 
to one cup water, tablespoon butter. Let bake, then slice bananas in 
pie and put meringue on top and let brown slightly. — Mrs. Wm. Tilroe. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

One quart flour, two heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
two tablespoons white sugar, a little salt, mix while dry. Then add 
three tablespoons butter. To one large cup of sweet milk add one 
egg. Bake in three layers. — Mrs. A. Blood. 

INDIVIDUAL SHORT CAKE. 

Make baking powder biscuit and sweeten slightly. Roll out an 
inch thick, cut in diamonds, squares or circles and bake in a hot oven. 
When done break open, never cut, butter them and put mashed and 
sweetened berries with one or two large berries cut in halves, sprinkled 
with powdered sugar on top, and the mashed berries between, and if 
wished, crown each with a spoonful of whipped cream. — Daisy Nash. 



82 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter (not melted), pinch salt, 
one egg, one cupful sweet milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, filling may be any kind of fruit. — Mrs. Chester Melrose. 

SHORT CAKE. 

One pint flour, two teaspoons Roya 1 Baking Powder, one-fourth 
teaspoon of salt, two tablespoons sugar, three tablespoons butter, mix 
dry ingredients and sift. Rub in butter and add enough milk to make a 
batter that will spread easily. Bake in hot oven in two tins. Use 
any fruit between, and white of an egg beaten stiff with one tablespoon 
of sugar on top, brown in oven. — Sallie Jennings. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE. 

Two cups brown sugar, and three tablespoons of flour, stirred in 
sugar, yolks of three eggs, with whites reserved for top. Butter size of 
an egg, and two cups of hot water. Cook until thick and put into a 
baked crust, put whites on top and set in oven until brown. — Mrs. 
Lajjerty. 

BUTTER SCOTCH PIE. 

Stir together four tablespoons of flour and two cups of brown 
sugar, add two cupfuls of sweet milk, yolks of three eggs, well beaten; 
two neaping tablespoons of butter, teaspoon of vani la. Cook in 
double boiler until thickened. Have ready two under crusts baked. 
Fill with mixture. Whip whites of eggs for top, add two level spoons 
of sugar, spread and set in oven to brown. — Flora Reese. 

SUGAR TARTS. 

Line gem pans with pie paste. Filling: One egg, one cup sugar, 
one teaspoon extract, two tablespoons milk. Bake in slow oven. — Ida 
M. Ellis. 

LEMON PIE. 

One large lemon, one cup sugar, five eggs (whites of three saved 
for top) , two tablespoons flour, wet in cold water, and two cups boiling 
water. Enough for two pies. 

CURRANT PIE. 

Soak two cups dried currants which have been washed in boiling 
water and drained. Add one cup sugar, three tablespoons of flour, 
two eggs, well beaten and a little butter. Bake with two crusts. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 83 



Puddings 

PERSIMMON PUDDING. 

One pint persimmons, rubbed through colander, 2 tablespoons 
suet, chopped fine, two teaspoons baking powder, two eggs, beaten; 
pinch of salt, one cup milk (sweet). Enough flour to make stiff batter. 
Tie in swiss bag and drop in boiling water. Boil three hours. Serve 
with hard sauce. — Mrs. C. 0. Ellis. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup of finely chopped suet, one cup of molasses, one cup sour 
milk, one cup chopped seeded raisins, three cups of flour, cloves and 
cinnamon as desired, mix all together and allow to stand two or three 
hours, add one teaspoon soda stirring well, and steam two hours and a 
half. 

Sauce. — One cup of sugar and one-half cup of butter creamed, then 
stir in one-half cup of cream and flavor with any desired flavoring. — 
Mrs. S. P. Ronalds. 

WEDDING PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, one cup 
seeded raisins, one cup chopped suet, one teaspoon ground cloves, one 
teaspoon soda, steam three hours. Serve with sauce. — Mrs. J. H. 
Miner. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound beef suet, chopped fine, one pound bread crumbs, 
chopped fine; one pound brown sugar, three pounds seeded raisins, 
three pounds dried currants, nine eggs, beaten separately; one-half 
pint sour milk, wine glass fruit juice; one-half cup New Orleans molas- 
ses, one-half pound citron, lemon and orange peel, chopped fine; one 
teaspoon spices, one nutmeg, flour to make stiff batter, pour in greased 
mold. Tie white cloth over it and then plunge into boiling water and 
boil six hours or longer. This makes two good sized puddings. — Mrs. 
Foster Boggis. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup molasses or brown sugar, one cup sweet milk, one cup 
suet or one-half cup melted butter, one cup raisins, one cup currants, 
two and one-half cups flour, one-half teaspoon soda, two eggs, salt and 
spice to taste. Steam two and one-half hours. — Mrs. W. H. Robinson. 



84 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of chopped 
suet, one cup of raisins, one cup of currants, two and one-half cups 
flour, two eggs, one-half teaspoon soda, a little salt, one teaspoon all- 
spice, one of cloves, one of cinnamon. Steam three hours. — Mrs. J. F. 
Jolly. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Two boxes of raisins, one box of currants, two cups chopped suet, 
five eggs, one -half cup of sour milk, one heaping teaspoon of soda, 
four cups of sugar, two tablespoons of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon 
allspice, one-third teaspoon cloves, one tablespoon molasses, four 
tablespoons of extract of lemon, one cup of bread crumbs, enough flour 
to make so stiff you can hardly stir it. Put in a greased cloth that is 
about two feet square and tie, leaving loose enough to have room to 
rise. Let boil six hours. — Mrs. Fred Kivett. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

One cup grated carrot, one cup grated raw potato, one cup of 
light brown sugar, one-half cup each, currants and raisins, one-half 
cup butter or finely chopped suet, one-half teaspoon each, of cinnamon, 
cloves, nutmeg, one teaspoon soda and pinch of salt. Stir soda and 
salt in potato, mix all together throughly, put in a buttered pan, cov- 
ering with cloth, and let steam three hours. Serve with sauce. — Mrs. 
A. L. Patterson. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One teacup sugar, one teacup butter, four eggs, one teacup bread 
crumbs, one pint sweet milk, a little molasses, one apple chopped fine, 
one teaspoon all kinds spices, one teaspoon soda, one -half teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, one pint currants, one pint raisins, flour enough 
to make stiff. Cook four hours. — Mrs. S. A. Blood. 

ICE CREAM PUDDING. 

Three heaping tablespoons cornstarch, a small pinch of salt, and 
one tablespoon sugar, stir until smooth with as little cold water as 
possible, then add one and one-half pints boiling water and stir until 
it is thoroughly cooked, then stir in the well beaten whites of three 
eggs and pour into cups or molds to cook. The dressing: To one cup 
sweet milk (boiling hot), add one cup sugar, half a cup of butter, yolks 
of three eggs and one tablespoon of vanilla; stir over the fire for a 
minute only. When white part is cold, remove from the mold and 
pour the dressing over. Eat cold. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 85 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Three heaping cups dry bread crumbs, one and one-half cups 
sour milk over crumbs, level teaspoonful soda in sour milk and bread, 
two eggs, one-fourth cup butter, two cups dark brown sugar, one cup 
raisins, one teaspoon cinnamon. Bake half hour. Serve with hard 
sauce. — Mrs. E. E. St. John. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Beat a level tablespoon of butter, add four level tablespoons of 
sugar and one egg, beat five minutes, add a quarter of a cupful of milk, 
and three-quarters of a cupful of flour that has been sifted with a level 
teaspoon of Royal Baking Powder. Bake in a pint pudding mold. 
Serve with liquid sauce. 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

One tablespoon of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, one 
tablespoon of flour. Mix flour, sugar and butter and let brown, stirring 
while over the fire. When brown, add one cup of water, and let boil 
about twenty or thirty minutes. Flavor with nutmeg if desired. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

Beat the whites of three eggs till stiff and dry. Add gradually one 
cup of powdered sugar and continue to beat, then add rind and juice 
of two oranges and rind of one lemon. — Minnie Shaw. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, one cup grated bread crumbs, one cup sugar, 
yolks of three eggs, one tablespoon butter and grated rind of one lemon. 
Bake half an hour. When done, add layer of jelly, then the beaten 
whites of the three eggs with one cup of sugar and juice of lemon. Brown. 
—Mrs. U. S. Staley. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

One-half cup cold water, dissolve one heaping tablespoon of gela- 
tin on back of stove. Whites of four eggs, beaten very stiff, add one 
cup of sugar and one-half cup cold water. Beat until stiff, then add 
one-half cup or more of nuts and small amount of fruit. Serve with 
whipped cream. — Mrs. U. S. Staley. 



86 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

One tablespoon of butter, one and one-half cups of sugar, one 
tablespoon flour. Mix flour, sugar and butter, and let brown, stirring 
while over the fire. When brown add one cup of water, and let boil 
about twenty or thirty minutes. Flavor with nutmeg, if liked. — 
Minnie Shaw. 

WOODFORD PUDDING. 

Beat yolks of three eggs well, add cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
flour, one cup of jam or preserves, one salt spoon of cinnamon and 
whites of three eggs, beaten stiff; one teaspoon soda dissolved in three 
teaspoons of sour milk, bake slowly in buttered pudding dish, from 
thirty to forty minutes. Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. S. P. 
Ronalds. 

STEAMED BATTER PUDDING. 

One cup flour, one teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, one tablespoon 
sugar, a little salt sifted together. Use enough sweet milk to make 
stiff as for cake. Beat well. Drop in buttered pudding cups, with 
one tablespoon of cherries on top of each. Steam thirty minutes and 
serve with hot sauce. This makes five cups. — Mrs. J. B. Jolly. 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

Three-fourths cup butter, one cup sugar, creamed together. Add 
one cup of blackberry jam, three eggs, one and one-half cups flour, 
and three tablespoons of sweet milk, in which one level teaspoon of 
soda has been dissolved. Bake in a well buttered cake pan and serve 
with sauce. 

NUT PUDDING. 

One cup of butter, one cup of molasses, one cup buttermilk (sour 
milk will do), one cup raisins, one cup nuts, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
one of Royal Baking Powder, one-half teaspoon soda in flour, of which 
use enough to make a stiff batter. Steam three hours and serve with 
the following sauce: One cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one 
tablespoon vinegar, one tablespoon vanilla, one egg. Cream butter 
and sugar, add the egg, vanilla and vinegar and beat twenty minutes. — 
Mrs. Sam Helck. 

NUT PUDDING. 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar. Beat 
into this one-half cup chopped nuts. Beat yolks of two eggs light 



I 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 87 



and add to the mixture. Then add one-half cup of milk. Sift two cups 
of flour, two teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder, beat thoroughly. Add 
the beaten whites lastly, steam half an hour in greased cup. Serve 
with chocolate sauce. 

Sauce. — Cream one-fourth cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, 
two tablespoons of cornstarch, add two squares of melted chocolate, 
one pint of boiling water. Flavor with a little cinnamon. Let boil 
for ten minutes, strain and serve. — Chloe Melrose. 

HINGHAM PUDDING. 

One-half cup brown sugar, two-thirds cup Orleans molasses, one 
piece butter size of egg, one cup sour milk, with one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in it, one spoon Royal Baking Powder, three cups flour, one 
pinch salt, one cup raisins or dried currants. Steam two and one-half 
hours. 

BREAD PUDDING. ^ 

One and one -half cups white sugar, two of fine bread crumbs, five 
eggs, two tablespoons butter, two of rosewater or lemon flavoring, one 
quart rich milk and a cup of jelly or jam. Stir butter and sugar to a 
cream, beat the yolks very light, mix with butter and sugar, the bread 
crumbs with one-half teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, soaked in milk. 
Beat. 

STUFFED APPLES. 

Select as many apples as required, uniform size. With a slender 
knife take out the core. Prepare a filling of grated bread crumbs, a 
small lump of butter, sugar to taste, and a little cinnamon or nut* ^g. 
Rub all well together, fill the hollow in the apples with it, set them u a 
hot oven and bake. — Dr. J. D. Merrill. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One and one-half cups chopped figs, two cups stale bread crumbs, 
one cup sugar, one cup chopped suet, one cup Graham flour, two eggs, 
one teaspoon soda, dissolved in enough buttermilk or sour milk to 
moisten (about one cup), one cup pecan nuts. Steam three hours. — 
Mrs. L. Ronalds. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

One pint milk, one cup grated bread crumbs, one cup sugar, yolks 
of three eggs, one tablespoon butter, grated rind of one lemon. Bake 
half hour. When done, add layer of jelly, then the beaten whites of 
the three eggs, with one cup of sugar and juice of lemon. Brown. — 
Mrs. U. S. Staley. 



88 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint bread crumbs, one quart milk, one cup of sugar, yolks of 
four eggs, one tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon lemon extract. Bake. 
Spread with a layer of fruit jelly. Whip the whites of the eggs to a 
froth with one-fourth cup of sugar and the juice of one lemon and 
spread on the jelly. Return to oven to brown. — Daisy Nash. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

Take two dozen marshmallows and put them in the bottom of a 
baking dish. Pour over them a rich cocoa, made as for breakfast, 
except for a thickening of cornstarch; bake in the oven one-half hour, 
then add a meringue and brown, serve cold. The cooking melts the 
marshmallows which gives the cocoa pudding a most delicate taste. — 
Mrs. Charles Melrose. 

COTTAGE PUDDING WITH COCOA SAUCE. 

Cream one-fourth cup butter, one-half cup sugar and yolk of one 
egg; when light add one-half cup milk, one cup sifted flour, rounded 
teaspoon of Royal Baking Powder, one-eighth teaspoon salt. Beat 
white of egg to stiff froth. Bake in muffin tins. 

Cocoa Sauce. — Three tablespoons melted butter, two tablespoons 
flour, four teaspoons cocoa, one cup boiling water, four tablespoons 
sugar, one teaspoon vanilla. Mix flour and cocoa. Stir in butter, add 
water gradually. Before serving, add sugar and vanilla. — Mrs. S. H. 
Melrose. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

One cup sugar (light brown), two eggs, one-half cup butter, two 
and one-half cups flour, one cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one cup stewed prunes, cut and pitted, one-half cup nuts, vanilla flavor- 
ing. Bake as cake. Serve with hard sauce, made as follows: Beat 
one cup sugar and one-half cup butter to a cream, add white of an egg 
and beat again, flavor with vanilla and put on ice until ready to serve. — 
Mrs. T. H. Land. 

NUT PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one cup suet, grated; two 
and one half cups flour, nutmeg, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, one-half teaspoon salt, one pound English walnuts, 
chopped; one-fourth chopped figs. Steam two and half hours. — Mary 
Crawford. 



S 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 89 

GRAPE NUT PUDDING. 

One cup of grape nuts, three tablespoons of light brown sugar, one 
cup of seeded raisins, one cup of sweet milk, two eggs, beaten separately; 
one cup of pecans, one-third teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves, ginger, 
and nutmeg. Steam one hour. This is delicious when served with a 
good pudding sauce. — Mrs. R. T. Bacon, St. Louis, Mo. 

PINEAPPLE DESSERT. 

Cut one fresh pineapple into small pieces, put on sugar and let 
stand an hour. Cut up five cents' worth of marshmallows, ten cents' 
worth of pecan meats and add to the pineapple. Mix with whipped 
cream and serve. — Mrs. E. L. Slocumb. 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

Three-fourths cup butter, one cup sugar creamed together. Add 
one cup of blackberry jam, three eggs, one and one-half cups flour and 
three tablespoons sweet milk, in which one teaspoon (level) of soda has 
been dissolved. Bake in a well buttered cake pan, and serve with 
sauce. 

JELLIED APPLES. 

Peel and core six uniform sized apples, boil in syrup until you can 
pierce them with a straw, remove from syrup, being careful not to 
break them, place in a dish; fill center of each apple with raisins. Dis- 
solve one envelope of unflavored minute gelatin in one pint of syrup in 
which apples were boiled, add a little lemon juice and pour around the 
apples. Set in cool place until gelatin becomes set. Serve with cream 
or boiled custard sauce. — Mrs. Amaryn Gilbert. 

STRAWBERRY PUFFS. 

Have a deep pan with a cover to fit, half filled with boiling water. 
Half fill as many cups as you have people to serve with strawberries, a 
small piece of butter, sugar to taste, and one tablespoon of water. Put 
the cups in the boiling water and put on the cover to keep the steam in. 
While the fruit cooks, prepare a batter thus: Sift together three-quarters 
of a cup of flour, one tablespoon of granulated sugar; rub into this one 
tablespoon butter; beat very light one egg, add to the egg one-half cup 
of sweet milk, pour it over the dry ingredients. Then beat it hard for 
one minute. Remove the lid of the pan and drop the batter by spoon- 
fuls in the cups on the fruit. Replace the lid and cook undisturbed 
twenty minutes; it will then be light and flaky. Turn out into indi- 
vidual dishes. Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. Chas. Melrose. 



90 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

FLOAT. 

One quart milk, four eggs, four tablespoons sugar. Put milk in 
double boiler, when hot, pour over beaten eggs (save out one white for 
"big float") and sugar. Pour back in boiler, stir constantly till it 
begins to thicken. Strain, add vanilla and the beaten white. — Mrs. 
J. B. Jolly. 

MARSHMALLOW WHIP. 

One pint rich cream, one and one-half cups marshmallows, one 
cup blanched almonds, one-third teaspoon of almond extract; sweeten 
to taste. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, add the flavoring, then the 
marshmallows cut in quarters, and the almonds, cut lengthwise in 
small pieces. Set on ice until thoroughly chilled and serve with cherry 
on top of each sherbet glass. — Mrs. Nat March. 

CRANBERRY JELLY WITH PINEAPPLE. 

To one pint berries take one cup sugar and one cup water. Boil 
berries in water until soft enough to press through a sieve. Add sugar 
and boil ten minutes. Cut a small can of pineapple in cubes and place 
in bottom of flat pan or dish, pour the jelly over this and set to harden. 
Cut in squares. — Mrs. Nat March. 

BANANA PUDDING. 

Cut sponge cake in slices, put into a glass dish, a layer of cake and 
one of sliced bananas, alternately. Make a nice soft custard, flavoring 
to taste and using yolks of eggs only, and pour over the cake and 
bananas. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and heap over the 
whole. — Mrs. A. L. Patterson. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-half box of Knox's gelatin, dissolved in cool water, add one 
and one-half tablespoons of sugar into gelatin. When this is dis- 
solved, put in two cups of boiling water and stir well. When cool, 
put in flavoring. Let stand until thick enough to beat, and then 
thoroughly whip with an egg beater until it is like snow. Beat the 
whites of two eggs separately and add to the above mixture and 
beat all together thoroughly. 

Sauce. — Make a thin custard of the yolks of the eggs, one pint of 
milk, sugar enough to sweeten, one dessert spoonful of cornstarch, pinch 
of salt and flavor to taste. — Dr. J. D. Merrill, Chicago. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 91 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

One tablespoon of Knox's gelatin. Pour over this enough water to 
dissolve it. Add boiling water enough to make one-half teacup in all. 
Whites of six eggs beaten stiff, add one teacup of sugar, beat stiff. 
Add gelatin to this. Divide in three parts, color one part pink, put a 
layer of white. Sprinkle mashed nuts on this, then add the pink, more 
nuts, then the white. Use whipped cream on top. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Peel and core the desired number of apples. Place in pan and fill 
center cavity of each with sugar, and place a piece of butter on top. 
Bake till tender, remove from oven. Pile meringue made of white of 
egg and sugar on each and return to oven till a delicate brown. Serve 
with cream. — Mrs. Amaryn Gilbert. 

GRAPE JUICE SPONGE. 

Soften one tablespoon gelatin in one-fourth cup of cold water and 
dissolve by setting cup containing gelatin in dish of hot water. Add 
one cup grape juice, juice of half a lemon, and a generous half cup of 
sugar. Stir until sugar is dissolved, then set in ice water to become 
chilled. Beat the whites of two eggs until dry, and beat into the 
chilled gelatin. Beat with egg beater till mixture will hold its shape. 
Turn into glasses, lined with lady fingers, or thin narrow slices of sponge 
cake. Finish with whipped cream, candied violets and strips of an- 
gelica. Put cream on with star tube. — Mrs. Amaryn Gilbert. 

MERINGUE. 

White of an egg, beaten stiff ; scant one-fourth cup of sugar. Grease 
paper, draw circle on it. Drop meringue on paper with tablespoon. 
Bake in moderate oven until brown. When cool, cut tops off, fill with 
cherries, strawberries or cream. Put tops on. — Harriet Melrose. 

DUCHESS CREAM. 

One cup tapioca soaked over night. Drain off in the morning and 
cover with boiling water, let simmer until clear. Add juice of two 
lemons, one can grated pineapple, two cups sugar and the beaten 
whites of two eggs. Thoroughly chill and serve with whipped cream. — 
Mrs. W. H. Robinson. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs very light; two-thirds of a cup of 
sugar, one tablespoon of cornstarch, and flavor to taste; stir into a 



92 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

quart of boiling milk, cook until it thickens. When cool pour into a 
low glass dish. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and lay 
them in spoonfuls upon the custard far enough apart, so that the little 
white islands will not touch each other. A pleasing effect will be pro- 
duced by dropping little specks of bright jelly upon each island. — Daisy 
Nash. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Take four tablespoons of sugar and add two of gelatin, soften in 
a half cup of water and add enough boiling water to dissolve well. 
Have chilled on ice, a pint of rich thick cream and when the gelatin is 
cool, pour into the cream slowly, and whip with the egg beater until it 
begins to thicken. Pour into molds and serve very cold. It may be 
flavored to suit the taste and the molds may be lined with thin strips 
of sponge cake if desired. 

MARSHMALLOW DELIGHT. 

Ten cents worth of marshmallows, one-third pound of nuts, chop- 
ped; mix with whites of two eggs, beaten stiff; one can cherries, one can 
pineapple, cut marshmallows in quarters, mix with egg and nuts. Put 
layer of mixture, then cherries, then mixture, then pineapple, and so on, 
until all are used. Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. B. Batson. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

One pint milk, one-third box Knox's gelatin, one cup granulated 
sugar, four eggs, one teaspoon extract, dissolve gelatin in milk thor- 
oughly, place on stove, heat to boiling point, stirring constantly. 
Then set aside while stirring in the yolks and sugar, which have been 
beaten to a cream. Then reheat to boiling point, remove from fire, 
fold in the well beaten whites and flavor, mold and serve with whipped 
cream. — Mrs. Louie Fitzgerrell, Poseyville, Ind. 



HON & CRAWFORD 

GRAYVILLE, ILLINOIS 

SUCCESSORS TO CHARLES F. SPECK 

DEALERS IN 

HARDWARE, TINWARE, CUTLERY, STOVES AND 

AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS 

A Majestic Range will Suit 

Your Wife, we Sell Them Your Patronage Solicited 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 93 



Frozen Desserts 

" The smile of the hostess 
Is the cream of the feast.* 1 

CRANBERRY FRAPPE. 

Pick over and wash one quart of cranberries ; put over fire in agate 
saucepan, with one quart of cold water. Boil ten minutes (or until 
soft), add two cups of sugar; boil three minutes; then wash through a 
wire strainer, and set aside to cool. Add the juice of two lemons and 
whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, and then freeze, using two parts ice to 
one of salt. — Mrs. H. L. Ronalds. 

FROZEN MAPLE PUDDING. 

Beat yolks of five eggs until light; add slowly, one and one-half 
cups maple syrup. Cook in double boiler until like custard. When 
cool, add the beaten whites of the eggs. Pour one quart of whipped 
cream in freezer, then cooked ingredients, and lastly one cup of chopped 
nuts. Freeze. — Mrs. W. H. Robinson. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

One quart milk, one-half pound sugar, one tablespoon cornstarch, 
three eggs, one teaspoon vanilla. Place milk and sugar in double 
boiler. Mix cornstarch with a little cold milk, put in beaten yolks. 
Pour hot milk over this and put back in boiler. Stir, and when a little 
thick, strain. Lastly, add beaten whites and freeze; one pint of cream, 
if you have it — Jolly. 

FROZEN MAPLE PUDDING. 

Six eggs, one and one-half cups maple syrup, one quart whipped 
cream, one cup of English walnuts, chopped. Beat yolks, add slowly 
to them the syrup, cooked on a double boiler until like custard (stirring 
constantly). Beat whites stiff, and add to it while hot. Cool. Stir 
in lightly the cream, and lastly the nuts. Freeze. — Mrs. Adella Mit- 
chell, Carbondale. 

LEMON SHERBERT. 

One half gallon of water, one quart of sugar, boiled; juice of ten 
lemons, and two oranges; one teaspoon of gelatin, dissolved. — Mrs. Sam 
Ronalds. 



94 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

FRUIT MOUSSE. 

Sprinkle strawberries or raspberries with sugar, and let stand until 
the sugar is dissolved and the juice drawn out. Use enough berries to 
make a pint of juice. Mash them and strain through fine cheese cloth. 
Or prepare a pint of pineapple or orange juice and sweeten to taste. 
Soak a quarter of a box of gelatin in a quarter of a cup of cold water 
twenty minutes. Pack the mold or freezer can, minus the beaters, in 
ice and salt. Chill a pint of cream, then whip it. Dissolve the soaked 
gelatin in a quarter of a cup of boiling water, and strain it into the 
fruit juice. Set the pan in a pan of ice, and stir constantly, and as it 
begins to thicken, stir in the whipped cream. When well mixed, pour 
it into the mold. Cover and let it stand three hours. — Mary Melrose. 

GRAPE SHERBERT. 

Make a syrup of three-fourths pint of sugar and one pint of water. 
When cool, add one pint of grape juice and a tablespoon of lemon or 
orange juice. When partly frozen, add the beaten whites of two eggs. — 
Mrs. Pearl Winter; Mute Henkle. 

SHERBERT. 

Three pints of sugar and just a little water, juice of six oranges, 
juice of six lemons, juice off a can of pineapple, and juice off can of Mar- 
aschino cherries, and water; one grape fruit, mashed. When partly 
frozen, add whites of two eggs. 

LEMON ICE. 

Four lemons, one pint of sugar, three pints of boiling water, and 
white of an egg. Shave off peeling from two lemons (being careful not 
to get any of the white under oil cells) . Put parings in bowl and pour 
one quart of boiling water over them, cover and let stand until cold; 
then strain, squeezing to get all lemon oil out of parings, and add juice 
of the four lemons. Pour one pint of boiling water over the sugar and 
set on stove until all sugar is dissolved; add to the lemon water, and 
when ready to freeze, fold in the beaten white of one egg. This quan- 
tity is for one-half gallon freezer. — Mrs. Amaryn Gilbert. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBERT. 

One quart of water, three cups of sugar. Let boil about ten min- 
utes; then add the juice of two lemons and one can of grated pineapple. 
When cold, freeze the same as ice cream. When nearly frozen, add the 
whites of ten eggs, well beaten. — Minnie V. C. Shaw. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 95 

FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Cut into small pieces oranges, pineapple, nuts and figs. Add Maras- 
chino cherries (whole), some of the liquid from the cherries and lemon 
juice. Sweeten to taste. Set on ice until thoroughly chilled. Serve 
in small glasses with a marshmallow on top. — Mrs. Charles Melrose. 

LEMON SHERBERT. 

Two quarts of boiling water, eight lemons, one egg (white), one 
quart sugar. Spread part of the sugar on a shallow plate or board, and 
after wiping the lemons with a damp cloth, roll them in the sugar to 
extract the oil; then cut in halves, remove the seeds and squeeze out 
the juice. Boil all the sugar and water until clear. Remove the scum 
as it rises. Add the lemon juice to the syrup, strain it, and pour it 
gradually into the beaten egg. Then freeze as usual. — Mary Melrose. 

APRICOT ICE. 

One can apricots, five oranges, two lemons, whites of four eggs, 
one quart and one cup sugar, one quart water and one quart cream. 
Press fruit through a sieve, then boil sugar and water to a syrup and 
cool. Mix fruit and syrup and add whites of eggs. After this starts to 
freeze add the cream and freeze until almost solid. Makes one gallon. — 
Mrs. T. H. Land. 



Cheese 

WELSH RAREBIT. 

Two cups grated cheese, two eggs (yolks), one-half cup sweet 
milk, salt and cayenne to taste. Put milk in chafing-dish and let come 
to boiling point, then add cheese and eggs, thinned with a little milk; 
boil until thick. If the rarebit is stringy or tough , it is the fault of the 
cheese not being rich enough to melt. — Mrs. E. J. Briswalter. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Cook one pint of macaroni, broken in small pieces, in salted water 
until done. Drain in colander and pour water through it until it looks 
clean. Place in buttered pan in alternate layers, the macaroni and 
grated cheese with butter over the top. Pour enough milk over all 
until you can just see it in the pan. A little cracker crumbs may be 
used on top. Bake until brown. 



96 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

MACARONI. 

Boil macaroni until tender; drain and place in dish, alternate 
layers of macaroni and cheese (allowing plenty of the latter), season 
with salt; prepare a custard as for custard pie, omitting the sugar, pour 
this over the macaroni. Bake in a slow oven. Mrs. Ruth Naney. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

One-half pound cheese, grated; add to this one pint cracker crumbs, 
a dash of pepper and teaspoon of salt. Mix and add two eggs. Form 
into balls the size of a walnut; dip in beaten egg, then in crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard, turning to keep them round. 

RICE AND CHEESE. 

One pint cold boiled rice, one cup grated cheese. Put layer of 
rice in buttered baking dish, then layer of cheese and green peppers, if 
desired. When dish is full, put thin layer of cracker crumbs on top 
and bits of butter. Over this, pour following mixture: One cup milk, 
one egg, well beaten; saltspoon of salt, pinch of dry mustard, dash of 
cayenne. Bake half an hour in rather hot oven. 

RICE BALLS. 

One cup cold boiled rice, one cup sweet milk, scant one-fourth tea- 
spoon Royal Baking Powder, flour to make a stiff batter; drop in small 
balls into hot fat, which has been salted. Fry crisp and brown. — Mrs. 
Huebner. 

BOILED RICE. 

One cup rice, two quarts boiling water, one tablespoon salt. Wash 
the rice in several waters. Cook rapidly for thirty minutes. Drain in 
a strainer and pour boiling water over it. Shake slightly and season 
with butter. Serve hot. — Mrs. Claude Hall, Minneapolis. 

SPAGHETTI A LA ITALIENE. 

One pound spaghetti, two pounds round beefsteak, one can toma- 
toes (strained and cooked to a paste), two cans mushrooms, two cloves, 
garlic, ground chili pepper and salt to taste. Roman cheese (ground). 
Cut beefsteak in small dice. Have a skillet smoking hot, throw in 
meat and stir carefully until the meat is browned on all sides; add one 
cup boiling water, pepper, use cayenne (if you can't get the chili) , garlic 
and tomato paste, cover closely and push to back of range where it 
should cook slowly for three or four hours. Have a kettle of boiling 
salted water, at least one-half hour before serving time; put in spa- 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 97 

ghetti (without breaking) and boil tender. On a large platter arrange 
a layer of spaghetti, pour over the meat and sauce to which the mush- 
rooms have been added, just in time to be heated thoroughly, sprinkle 
with cheese to taste, then another layer of spaghetti, sauce and cheese 
until all have been used. 

As I have given the recipe I have modified to suit American taste, 
the original having more garlic and chili (or use two onions in place of 
garlic.) — Mrs. Sam Blair. 

DEVILLED CHEESE. 

One-half pound cheese, one cup English walnuts, one tablespoon 
of prepared mustard. Grate cheese, add chopped nut meats, mix with 
mustard; adding a little vinegar to make thin enough to spread. This 
is an excellent rilling for sandwiches. — Mrs. Amaryn Gilbert, St. Louis, 
Missouri. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Three tablespoons of flour, three tablespoons of rich cheese grated, 
one tablespoon of melted butter, one tablespoon milk, one egg (yolk 
only), one saltspoon salt, one-half saltspoon of red pepper and same 
quantity of nutmeg. Mix dry ingredients, add milk, egg and butter; 
stir with spoon and add enough flour to roll. Roll very thin and cut 
into sticks three or four inches long. Bake in a slow oven until light 
brown. — Mrs. Madden. 



Sandwiches 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES. 

Pare a good-sized cucumber and place in salt water for a short 
time, then slice very thin; mix with a little mayonnaise dressing and 
place between slices of bread. — Miss Ethel Jackson. 

SANDWICHES. 

Take equal quantities of ground raisins, dates, figs and nuts; mix 
with whipped cream. — Mary Melrose. 

MARSHMALLOW WAFERS. 

Melt a tablespoon of butter in chafing-dish; place ten or twelve 
marshmallows in this butter and brown on both sides. Place these 
fried marshmallows between crackers and serve while hot. — Mary Mel- 
rose. 



98 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Grind boiled ham, also peanuts. Mix together with salad dress- 
ing or use pepper and mustard with a little vinegar. Butter the bread 
and spread meat between. — Mrs. Charles. 

PIMENTO SANDWICHES. 

Grate one cup of cheese, add one cup of chopped pimentoes with 
oil, that comes in a can, a little lemon juice and salt. Spread with 
mayonnaise on bread. Cut in any desired shape. — Mrs. Chester Mel- 
rose. 



Canned Fruits 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Six oranges, three lemons, sliced thin; cover with four quarts of 
cold water and let stand twenty-four hours; then boil one hour, and 
let stand twenty-four; then measure equal quantity sugar, and boil 
thirty or forty minutes. — Mrs. Sell. 

CRAB APPLE RELISH. 

Two quarts of crab apples, sliced; two oranges, chopped fine. 
Grated rind of one orange. Weigh and take equal amount of sugar. 
Boil until jelly is formed. — Harriet Melrose. 

SPICED APPLES. 

Three quarts of sweet apples, one quart of good cider vinegar r 
one quart of sugar, two tablespoons of ground cloves, two tablespoons 
of ground cinnamon, two tablespoons allspice. Tie the spices up and 
put them in pan with the vinegar and sugar. Place on fire and let 
come to a boil; then add the apples, and let cool until tender. Can 
while hot. — Mrs. Maude White. 

CHERRY RELISH. 

Seeded cherries, covered with cider vinegar for twenty-four hours; 
pour off vinegar. Measure equal amount of vinegar as you have 
cherries; pour over cherries. Set away in open jars for four days, stir 
several times during this time, then put in glass jars and seal. — Mrs. 
Batson. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 99 

CHERRY LEAF JELLY. 

Drop two or three cherry leaves in apple or plum jelly while boil- 
ing. Take out before pouring jelly in glasses. — Mrs. George Mathews. 

APPLE BUTTER WITH GRAPE JUICE. 

Cook apples and run through colander. Cook grapes and strain 
as for jelly. To one gallon apples, add three pints grape juice. Cook 
together about one-half hour, then add four pounds white sugar. Boil 
one and one-half or two hours. Just before taking off the stove, add 
one and one-half teaspoons each of allspice and cinnamon. — Mrs. F. C. 
Naney. 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Eight large quinces ; peel and grate ; five pints of sugar and water 
to make a thick syrup when boiled, two tablespoons of good vinegar. 
Take sugar and water, boil until a thick syrup; put in quinces and vine- 
gar, and boil twenty minutes after quinces are added, stirring all the 
time. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Pulp of ten oranges, three oranges sliced very thin, three lemons, 
one diced pineapple. To each pound of fruit use one pound of sugar. 
Stand with sugar twelve hours. Pour off juice. Boil to thick syrup, 
add fruit; boil until tender and thick. Put in jelly glasses and cover 
with paraffine. Be careful not to burn. — Mrs. Geo. Mathews. 

PRESERVES. 

Take equal parts of fruit; cherry, blackberry or raspberry, and 
sugar. Allow to melt, then boil briskly for fifteen minutes. The next 
morning seal up cold. — Mata Newton. 



Pickles 

CHOW CHOW. 

One-half peck green tomatoes, two large heads of cabbage, fifteen 
large onions, twelve green peppers, one-half pound white mustard seed, 
one ounce celery seed. Cut onions, tomatoes, cabbage and peppers, 
and salt down over night. In morning drain and put them to soak in 
thin vinegar. Let remain a day or two, then drain and mix in the 



100 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

spices. Boil one and one-half gallons of vinegar and five pounds of 
brown sugar together and pour over ingredients hot. Do this three 
mornings; the third morning mix in one pound English mustard and 
one-half pint of olive oil. Put away in jars. — Mrs. Amaryn Gilbert, 
St. Louis. 

SWEET PEACH PICKLE. 

Boil one quart of vinegar, four pounds sugar, one ounce cloves, 
cinnamon bark and a few blades of mace for ten minutes; add eight 
pounds peaches, cook until tender; take peaches and place in jars, boil 
syrup until thick and pour over the peaches and seal tight. — Sallie Jen- 
nings. 

PRESERVED GREEN TOMArOES. 

Take one peck of green tomatoes, slice six fresh lemons without 
removing the skins, taking out all seeds; add six pounds of sugar (white 
if possible), until juice is a nice thick syrup. For flavoring, add a 
small piece of ginger root. — Mrs. Angie Reese, Evansville, Ind. 

SPICED BEANS. 

Cook string beans in slightly salted water until nearly tender; 
sweeten and spice to taste. Enough vinegar to cover the beans, when 
put in cans. Let vinegar come to a boil; fill jars with beans, pour hot 
vinegar over them until jars are full, and seal up tight. 

OIL PICKLE. 

Three hundred small cucumbers, sliced fine, three pints small 
white onions, sliced; mix one cup salt with sliced cucumbers; let stand 
one hour, put onions in cold water three hours, add a small piece of 
alum, dissolved in hot water to keep them firm and green. Two ounces 
white ground pepper, three ounces mustard, three ounces celery seed, 
two cups olive oil. Mix all together with hands, add enough cold 
cider vinegar, so that there will be plenty of liquid. Pack in glass jars 
as fruit. — Mrs. U. D. Staley. 

MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Two quarts small cucumbers, one to two quarts small onions, one 
to two quarts green tomatoes, four heads of cauliflower, six large green 
peppers, seeded. Let stand over night in salt and water. Set on stove 
in the morning in same water and let scald until tender, not too tender, 
about twenty minutes. Drain off water. One gallon cider vinegar 
one ounce of tumeric, twelve tablespoons of mustard. — Mrs. Chester 
Melrose. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 101 

HEALTH PICCALILLI. 

One peck green tomatoes, twelve green peppers, one head of cab- 
bage, one-half dozen ripe cucumbers, one-half dozen green cucumbers, six 
large onions, two heads of celery all chopped 'fine, and mixed with one 
teacup of coarse salt. Let stand twelve hours. Drain perfectly dry, 
and scald thoroughly in two quarts of vinegar. Drain and pack in 
jars. When cold pour over two quarts of vinegar to which has been 
added one-half cup of grated horse radish, one tablespoon of ground 
mace, one each of ground cinnamon, allspice, mustard and cayenne 
pepper, ore-half ounce each of celery seed and mustard seed. Cover 
with plate to keep under vinegar, and cover the top closely with thick 
cloth. 

SPANISH PICKLE. 

One dozen cucumbers, soaked in salt water strong enough to hold 
up an egg, one peck of green tomatoes, one dozen onions, medium size; 
three ounces white mustard seed, one ounce celery seed, one ounce 
tumeric, one box of Coleman's mustard, two and one-half pounds of 
brown sugar, one-half pint salt to the peck. Slice tomatoes and onions 
thin. Mix well. Cook twenty minutes in one-half gallon good vinegar, 
then put up in jars. — Mrs. Malcom Eastwood. 

STUFFED MANGOES. 

One-fourth peck green peppers, one pint green tomatoes, one head 
cabbage, one tablespoon pepper seeds, one quart onions, one-half tea- 
spoon salad oil, one-fourth cup mustard seed, one-fourth cup grated 
horse radish, one teaspoon sugar, twelve peppers, one-half teaspoon 
prepared mustard. Chop peppers, tomatoes, cabbage and onions 
separately; put in crocks and salt down over night. Extract seeds 
from peppers and cover with brine over night; drain and rinse next 
morning. Drain brine from chopped ingredients and mix well, adding 
named articles; fill peppers and wrap with strings. Cover with boiling 
vinegar, to which one cup of sugar (brown) has been added. — Mrs. 
Amaryn Gilbert. 

CHICAGO HOT. 

One-half peck ripe tomatoes, chopped fine and drain, one and one- 
half cups celery, chopped very fine, one cup of onions, chopped fine; 
one-half cup of mustard seed, one cup sugar, four or five green peppers, 
chopped fine ; one-fourth cup salt, one tablespoon mixed spice (cinnamon, 
cloves and allspice). About three cups of good vinegar. No cooking. 
Mix well and put in glass cans and seal. Good as soon as made and 
better in six years. — Mrs. Marsine Martin. 



102 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

SWEET CORN RELISH. 

One dozen ears of corn, cut from cob, one small head of cabbage, 
four medium onions, three red peppers. Put this all through food 
chopper; add one quart vinegar, two tablespoons of salt, one cup sugar, 
one tablespoon flour, one tablespoon mustard and one teaspoon of 
tumeric. Boil all one-half hour and seal in glass jars. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Three quarts of tomatoes, three good-sized green peppers, two- 
thirds of a cup of onions, one cup of sugar, one-third cup of salt, one 
pint of vinegar, one red pepper, one level teaspoon of each, cloves, cin- 
namon; one-half level teaspoon each of ginger and nutmeg. Chop 
tomatoes, peppers and onions very fine. Cook until good and tender. 
Bottle and seal. — Mrs. Irene Batson. 

TOMATO CREAM. 

Two dozen tomatoes, one dozen apples, one dozen onions (cook 
the onions separately). One tablespoon each of ginger, allspice and 
cinnamon and one teaspoon of cloves. Boil and strain through a sieve. 
Boil again and add one pint vinegar and one pound of sugar. Bottle 
while hot. — Mrs. Wm. Martin. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Eighteen large tomatoes, four onions (if small more), four red pep- 
pers, one green pepper, three cups vinegar, two tablespoons sugar, two 
tablespoons cinnamon, two tablespoons cloves. Boil one hour. — Mrs. 
Evert Adams. 

UNCOOKED CHILI SAUCE. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes. Peel, remove seeds, chop fine and 
let drip one-half hour. Add nine sweet peppers, chopped fine; three 
bunches of celery, cut in small cubes, one-half cup ground mustard, 
eight cups vinegar, sugar and salt to taste. Seal. — Ida M. Ellis. 

RUMMAGE. 

Two quarts of green tomatoes, one quart red tomatoes, two bunches 
of celery, three large onions, three red sweet peppers, three green sweet 
peppers, one small head of cabbage; one-half coffee-cup of salt. Chop 
vegetables, cover with salt and let stand over night. Drain well in 
morning, add three pints of vinegar, two pounds dark brown sugar, one 
teaspoon mustard, one teaspoon pepper. Cook about one hour. — Mrs. 
Willard Kirk. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 103 

CHOPPED PICKLE. 

One gallon cabbage, one-half gallon tomatoes, one quart of onions, 
one pint mangoes, two pounds brown sugar, one-half gallon vinegar, 
two tablespoons of salt, four tablespoons ground mustard, two table- 
spoons ginger, one tablespoon cloves, one ounce of celery seed, one 
ounce of tumeric. Boil twenty minutes. — Mrs. Charlotte Fieber. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLE. 

Fifteen pounds of sliced green tomatoes; let stand over night 
with a little salt sprinkled over; drain. Five pounds sugar, one quart 
best vinegar, one ounce cloves, two ounces cinnamon. Boil fifteen or 
twenty minutes; skim out and boil syrup until thicker, if preferred, but 
it is not necessary. (Best I ever ate.) 

PLUM CATSUP. 

Three pounds plums; boil and squeeze out pulp, then add one and 
one-half pounds sugar, two tablespoons cinnamon, one tablespoon 
allspice, one tablespoon pepper and one quart vinegar. — Mrs. Chester 
Melrose. 

DILL PICKLES. 

Take large cucumbers and pack in a jar with alternate layers of 
grape leaves, having top layer of leaves and dill. Pour over this, 
brine strong enough to carry an egg. Weight on top. — Mrs. Fred Schoe- 
neman. 

FRENCH PICKLE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, one peck of sweet peppers, one peck 
of onions. Slice all as thin as paper. Put one teacupful of salt on 
each and drain in separate cheese cloth bags. Next day squeeze very 
dry. Put on to boil one gallon of best white wine vinegar (no other 
will do), six pounds of brown sugar, five cents worth cinnamon bark, 
not quite so much cloves; tie spices in a bag. Pour boiling hot over 
mixture and cook until heated through. — Mrs. W. H. Weed. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One peck of tomatoes, six large onions; boil and strain through 
strainer. Add one quart of vinegar, three cups of sugar, one-third cup 
of salt, one-half teaspoon ginger, one-half teaspoon nutmeg, one tea- 
spoon mustard, three cents worth whole cloves, three cents worth cin- 
namon bark, and red pepper to taste. Tie cloves and cinnamon in 
little sack. Boil until thick; bottle and seal. — Mrs. E. J. Briswalter. 



104 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Take beets of uniform size ; cook until tender. If small, leave whole, 
if medium size, quarter. Place in jars. Boil together one pint of good 
vinegar, one cup of sugar, a few cloves and stick of cinnamon. Fill up 
the jar and seal. — Mrs. J. B. Jolly. 



Candies 

FONDANT FOR CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Put in a granite pan, two cups granulated sugar, one cup of water, 
and one-half saltspoon (scant) of cream of tartar. Stir until the sugar 
is dissolved, but not a minute longer. As it boils crystals will form 
around the edge of pan, and these must be frequently removed or the 
whole mass will become granulated. Boil until a little dropped into 
cold water, can be rolled in a soft ball. Have large platter rubbed with 
butter, pour syrup out on this, and let cool, until pressing it with your 
finger leaves a dent on the surface. If stirred while too warm it will 
grain. When it will dent, work it with a spoon until it becomes a very 
smooth, fine, creamy white paste, which is soft and not brittle, and can 
be worked in the hands. Let stand for a day, then melt chocolate in a 
dish, set over boiling water, and in this, dip the cream, molded into 
little balls or cone-shaped pieces. Use a hat pin to put them in and 
take them out of the chocolate, and lay them on waxed paper to dry. 
Pitted dates and figs can be stuffed with fondant, which is the founda- 
tion of all cream candies, then dipped in chocolate. A delicious rich 
confection is thus made. — Besse Vincent. 

SEAFOAM CANDY. 

Dissolve two cups light brown sugar in one-half cup hot water; 
then add one-half cup Karo syrup. Boil until a little dropped in cold 
water will harden. Have whites of two eggs beaten very stiff; pour 
candy, a little at a time, over these, beating all the time; add one 
cup of nut meats (minced very fine), and one teaspoon vanilla. 
Beat until a little dropped on plate will stand up in shape, then 
drop, by teaspoonfuls, on waxed paper. — Mrs. Lou Ronalds. 

PEANUT BRITTLE. 

Put two cupfuls of granulated sugar in a saucepan; stir until it 
melts and turns a little brown; add one cupful of peanuts, that have 
been ground or crushed fine; turn out on a bread board and roll as thin 
as possible. Work quickly, after adding the nuts, and remove from the 
board while warm. — Eunice Shelby. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 105 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Two cups of brown sugar (or white), one cup of milk, one-half 
cup of molasses, one-fourth cup of butter, and one-fourth cake of 
Baker's chocolate. 

NUT CANDY. 

Three cups of coffee A sugar, one cup milk (sweet), butter the size 
of a small egg, and one cup nuts, cut in small pieces. Boil until it will 
make a soft ball in cold water. When lukewarm, add nuts and beat 
until creamy. Put in buttered tins and cut in squares when cold. — Mrs. 
Sam Blair. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Two and one -half cups sugar, one -half cup water; boil till same 
will ball up in fingers, when put in cold water. Dissolve one-half box 
gelatin in one-half cup lukewarm water. Pour syrup in dissolved gela- 
tin and beat half an hour, then pour into a square pan with bottom 
covered with powdered sugar, into which a little cornstarch has been 
mixed and sifted. — Ida Butler. 

DATE FUDGE. 

Take two cups light brown sugar, put in a kettle on the rear of the 
stove and let scorch slightly. Then add half pint of water, but do not 
stir. Let it cook very s 1 owty, until it threads when dropped from a 
spoon; add a lump of butter the size of a smaU egg, and beat until it 
begins to harden, then stir in quickly one pound of seeded dates. — 
Mary C. Barnett. 

WHITE TAFFY. 

Two cups of white sugar, one and one-half cups water. Boil until 
it begins to get stringy, then put in one-half teaspoon of butter, and 
tablespoon of vinegar. 

FUDGE. 

Two cups granulated sugar, two tablespoons cocoa, one cup water, 
one tablespoon butter. Cook to 236 degrees Fahr., or until it forms a 
soft ball in cold water. Let cool for ten or fifteen minutes, then flavor 
with vanilla and beat. Pour into a buttered tin before it hardens and 
cut into squares. — M. Madden. 

MARBLE CANDY. 

Roll out white and chocolate fondant; place one on top of the 
other, roll together as for jelly roll, and slice. — Grace St. John. 



106 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

FRENCH CANDY. 

Fondant. — Three cups sugar, two and one-half cups water. Stir 
until sugar dissolves. Use little butter. Cook until candy forms soft 
ball in water. Let cool. Stir fast and hard. Knead on marble slab. 
If candy seems hard, work in a little warm water. Flavor and color 
to suit taste. A variety may be made from this fondant, according to 
ability. — Grace St. John. 

CLOVE CANDY. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one-half cup of vinegar, one-fourth 
cup of water, one teaspoon of butter, five drops of oil of cloves, and 
little red fruit coloring. — Dorothy Briswalter. 

ORANGE CANDY. 

Two and one-half cups brown sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, 
juice of one orange and grated peel of one orange, one cup nuts, chopped 
fine. Cook sugar and milk until it rolls up like a ball when put in cold 
water, stirring constantly, then add juice and cook again until it rolls 
up like a ball in cold water, then add orange peel and nut meats; beat 
until cool. — Ida Butler. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

White fondant, roll out, spread with peanut butter; roll and slice. 

WHITE GRAPES. 

White grapes rolled in the fondant make a nice variety. — Grace 
St. John. 

PECAN CANDY. 

Mix together, one cup each of light and dark brown sugar and 
one-half cup of water. Cook until the syrup will thread slightly when 
dropped from a spoon. Remove from the stove and let cool some before 
pouring into the beaten white of one egg. Beat this mixture until it 
will mold nicely, then add one cup of pecans and drop from a teaspoon 
onto a cold platter. — Nora P. Sexton. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 107 



Miscellaneous 



1. Cereals keep more crisp in a dry glass jar tightly screwed. 

2. Salt will remove fresh ink stain. 

3. To keep ants away, wipe the shelves with water, hot with 
cayenne pepper, but best of all keep them immaculately clean. 

4. Pure lemon juice is a capital remedy for biliousness and sick 
headache. 

5. Pineapple is valuable in throat affections. The juice is the 
finest thing in the world for cutting the fungus-like membrane in 
diphtheria. 

A TESTED COUGH REMEDY. 

Boil three large lemons in water ten minutes, drain off the water, 
slice the lemons as thin as possible. Put in an earthen bowl on stove 
until the mixture is at boiling point, then draw to back of stove, let 
simmer three hours. Remove from fire, and when it has stood one-half 
hour, add a tablespoon of oil of sweet almonds. To be used warm. 
Stir and take in teaspoonful doses as often as needed. — Mrs. Mathews. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Bake a lemon twenty minutes and squeeze the juice upon one- 
half cup of sugar. Excellent for hoarseness, and will break up a cold. — 
Mrs. A. D. Nash. 

FRUITS AS REMEDIES. 

A physician says, that all ripe and fresh fruits possess valuable tonic 
properties. He says the peach, grape, strawberry, apple and orange 
rank the highest, and that over-ripe or under-ripe and fibrous fruits 
must not be chosen. The portions of the fruit next the skin possess 
the highest amount of mineral qualities. Oranges and other citrus 
fruits are excellent for purifying the system. The banana is good food 
when the intestines are in an irritated condition, for its fatty and oily 
qualities act as an emollient. The pineapple is the best remedy for a 
weak stomach, as it is a wonderful aid to digestion. Apples, either baked 



108 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

or raw, are good for a sluggish liver and for gout, and the juices when 
unsweetened will correct acidity of the stomach. The carrot contains 
pectic acid, which is valuable help to aid the other foods in digesting. 
Onion and garlic are unequaled for their purgative and anti-scorbutic 
tendencies. They are the cleaners of the system. Asparagus is a good 
diuretic. Beans and peas are highly nutritious if properly masticated 
and assimilated. 

TO WASH BLANKETS. 

Make a suds of white soap and cold water, using one spoonful of 
borax to each pail of water. Soak over night. Next morning wash 
in fresh suds and rinse. Do not rub soap on, it leaves spots. — Mrs. J. 
D. Martin. 

TO KEEP CHERRIES RED AFTER THEY ARE CANNED. 

One way is to wrap the jars in paper before storing them in the 
dark preserve closet. Another way is to add a few drops of red fruit 
color to the cherries when you are cooking them.  You can make 
delicious jelly with any juice you have left when canning cherries by 
taking one-third currant juice to two-thirds cherry juice, with as much 
sugar as you have of both. Boil twenty minutes. 

TO CLEAN FRUIT CAN LIDS. 

Put a few at a time on the stove in a granite kettle and cover with 
vinegar. After scalding a little while take out, adding more. Cleanse 
well in water until clear, then scald in water containing borax, and they 
will look like new. By following this method I have never lost a can of 
fruit. Heat all lids in boiling water before placing on cans. Never 
put cold lids on hot cans. If your rubber rings start to draw up under 
lid, run two or three pins straight down about half their length through 
the edge of rubber and screw lid on tightly. 

When the zinc tops for fruit jars become dingy from age, I find 
that they can be made to look like new ones by standing them in butter- 
milk for twenty-four hours. When taken out and washed in warm 
soap-suds, the result will be found satisfactory to anyone who cares to 
try this plan. 

TO MAKE A JELLY BAG. 

Gather the hem over an embroidery hoop, sew tape securely to the 
hoop and hang it on a stick over a large bowl or preserving-kettle to 
drain. In this way the fruit can be poured in the bag without spilling 
it or burning your hands, and there is no danger of the bag slipping. 
A jelly bag should be made with a sharp angle to insure the maximum 
of pressing. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 109 

PRESERVING SMALL FRUITS. 

Try preserving cherries this way: After pitting, cover with vine- 
gar and let them stand forty-eight hours. Drain and pack in stone 
jars, allowing a cupful of sugar to each cupful of cherries. Stir every 
day until sugar is dissolved. They are delicious with cold meat, or 
can be used in puddings. 

To keep cherries solid or whole when canned, pit them in the even- 
ing; have in readiness any vessel large enough to hold them. Measure 
the sugar, and put first a layer of cherries, then a layer of sugar, until all 
are used. Let stand until morning, and then can or preserve them. 
When opened for use they will be as solid as when picked. 

A TABLE OF MEASURES. 

Young housekeepers and all others who believe in exact measure- 
ments may like a table of measures. Paste it on the wall over the mix- 
ing table. It may come in handy some day. 

Sixty drops make a tablespoon. 

Three teaspoons equal one tablespoon. 

Eight rounded tablespoons of dry material equal one cupful. 

Sixteen tablespoons of liquid equal one cupful. 

One cup of liquid is half a pint. 

One heaping tablespoon sugar is one ounce. 

One heaping tablespoon butter is two ounces. 

One cup butter or sugar is half a pound. 

Two cups of flour is a pound. 

One cup of rice is half a pound. 

One cup of Indian meal is six ounces. 

One cup bread crumbs is two ounces. 

One pint of ordinary liquid is one pound. 



City Meat Market 

Headquarters for Best Grades of 

FRESH AND CURED MEATS 
E. M. JOHNSON 

Three Doors East of P. O. Both Phones 



110 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 




ood cooks all over 
the country use 

Karo 

for cooking, candy 

making and all table 

uses. 

It gives a fine flavor. 



Use it in all dishes where sweetening is needed — in ginger- 
bread, ginger cakes and cookies ; in sauces, preserves, pastry, 
puddings and other desserts, and in sweetening vegetables. 
Karo Cook Book — fifty pages, including thirty perfect recipes 
for home candy making — free. Send yonr name on a post 
card, to-day. 



Corn Products Refining Company 



P. O. Box 161 



New York 



Apple, Quince, Peach and Plum 
Butter 



Fruit Sugar 

1 lb. % lb. 



'Karo Water Time 

Va, lb. to cover % to 1 hr. 



Cover fruit with water and cook till soft. 
Rub through a coarse strainer. Add sugar 
and Karo and cook till thick, adding spices to 
taste. 



DIVINITY 

2-3 cup Karo 2 cups sugar 

1-3 cup hot water 2 ounces chopped nuts 
2 eggs (whites only) 2 ounces chopped raisins 
1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil sugar, Karo and water together till it forms a 
hard mass in cold water. Beat whites of eggs very 
stiff, and beat in the nuts and raisins. Pour on the 
hot syrup, beating all the time. When mixture will 
stand alone, drop from teaspoon onto buttered plates. 



Those dainty " old home " cus- 
tards and puddings are so 
good when you make them with 

Kingsford's Corn Starch 

Why do you risk failure with ordinary 
corn starches ? The cook who knows 

uses Kingsford's — that's 
the reason she gets results 
that so many cooks miss. 
Insist on getting Kings- 
ford's — your grocer has it. 

Send a post card today for Kings- 
ford's COOK BOOK— recipes for 
■68 of the best dishes you ever ate. 

T. KINOSPORD ft SON 

Oswego, N. Y. 

National Starch Co., Successors 




GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 111 



WALDEN 



Does only the Highest Grade of 



Photograph: 



3103^ Upper Third Street 

EVANSVILLE, IND. 



Dr. M. Ravdin 

EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT 

223 Main Street 

EVANSVILLE, INDIANA 

Phone 654 



112 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

THRIFTY WOMEN 

Very frequently the women are the money savers of the family. To 
encourage these thrifty women, this bank grants them every privilege for 
their benefit and convenience. We will be glad to assist ladies who may 
desire to open a bank account, make out deposits, checks, or give out in- 
formation that may be desired in reference to our banking departments. 
Write us or call in and see us. One dollar opens an account. 

The FIRST NATIONAL BANK, of Grayville, 111. 



MISS EMILY BUTLER 

MILLINERY 

Grayville :-: Illinois 



DONTWAIT! 

UNTIL BAKING DAY 
TO ORDER 

Royal or Sunflour 

EVERY SACK GUARANTEED 

Geo. P. Bowman & Sons 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 113 

Millinery That is Charming, Distinctive and Reasonable 

New trimmed hat styles for fall and winter have never been 
displayed to better advantage than they are now in our Millinery 
Department. But the prices are just about half of what you would 
pay elsewhere for hats of like beauty, because these charming re- 
productions of original conceptions are trimmed in our own depart- 
ment and priced in our own reasonable way. 

THE MISSES LA MAR 



THE GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

WAS PRINTED AND BOUND 
BY THE 

KELLER-CRESCENT CO. 

PRINTERS, ENGRAVERS, STATIONERS, 
LITHOGRAPHERS AND BLANK BOOK MAKERS 

2 I 6, 2 I 8, 220 LOCUST STREET 
EVANSVILLE, INDIANA 



FOR BEST RESULTS 

In Cooking Use Our Flavoring Extracts and 

SYMOND'S INN SPICES 

The finest, purest, spiciest spices sold. A pinch does as much flavoring as 
££ a teaspoonful of ordinary spice. Cloves, Allspice, Jamaica Ginger, 
Cayenne, Cream Tartar, Black and White Pepper. 

MADDENS DRUG STORE 



114 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

H. B. MARTIN, M. D. 

Physician and Surgeon 



Special Attention Given to Diseases of 

WOMEN and CHILDREN 
BOTH PHONES GRAYVILLE, ILLINOIS 



CLIFFORD SHOPBELL & COMPANY 

ARCHITECTS 

No. 707 Furniture Building 

EVANSVILLE -:- INDIANA 

TELEPHONE No. 45 



Licensed Architects State of Illinois 

GRAYVILLE INDEPENDENT LEADS 

OTHERS FOLLOW 

When you are looking for THE BEST in job printing, 
either m style or workmanship, visit The Grayville In- 
dependent Office. Samples submitted for your in- 
spection. :::::: : : : 

INDEPENDENT PRINTING COMPANY 

PHONE 22-R GRAYVILLE, ILLINOIS 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 115 

Mosber^er & Murray 

Painters, Paperhangers, Signwriters 
and Decorators 



WE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION ON ALL OUR WORK 



We sell Wall Paper at Wholesale Prices. For inspection of our Work 
Visit the New M. E. Church and the New Carnegie Library 

at Grayville, Illinois 



Estimates Cheerfully Given on all Work 

Cumberland Phone 36-W GRAYVILLE, ILL. Independent Phone 
LET US FIGURE ON YOUR WORK 



FOR A GOOD CUP TRY 

Chase & Sanborn's Coffees and Teas 

CHOICE PRIVATE GROWTHS 

RECOGNIZED BY THE MOST 
DISCRIMINATING AS THE 



"FINEST GROWN" 

Sold in Grayville at 

HALL'S ONE PRICE CASH STORE 



116 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 



Smith's Produce and Poultry Company 

they say, 
For poultry and eggs highest prices pay, 
They buy also nuts and butter and hides 
And all your old junk they take besides, 
For all of which their price is fair, 
And all their patrons are treated square. 



PLAYER PIANOS 

PIANOS 

SHEET MUSIC, BOOKS AND 
EVERYTHING MUSICAL 

Largest Stock, Lowest Prices, Easiest Terms 
OLD INSTRUMENTS EXCHANGED 

HARDING & MILLER MUSIC CO. 

404 MAIN ST. EVANSVILLE, IND. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 117 



WITH the intention of supplying the most exacting 
consumer with a line of food goods of Highest 
Quality and Complete Variety, we have for 
years employed only skilled experts and ap- 
plied the most scientific knowledge and experience in the 
preparation of Richelieu, Ferndell and Batavia Brands of 
Food Products. 

During that time, ever mindful of the fact that the best 
was none too good, we have striven for that maximum of 
excellence which discriminating housekeepers appreciate. 

There is no surer way to provide the best for the 
table than to serve the foods to be found under these 
brands and no surer way to have your every meal a 
delicious repast. 

HIGHEST QUALITY, SKILL, CLEANLINESS— 

a combination which has made these brands of Food Pro- 
ducts the best to be had. 

These brands comprise Coffees, Teas, Canned Fruits 
and Vegetables of all varieties, Sea Foods, Preserves* 
Jams, Jellies, Mince Meat, Olives, Catsup, Salad Dressing, 
Condiments, Relishes, etc., etc. 



Sprague, Warner Company, 
CHICAGO 



118 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

Jacoby Art Glass Co. 



2700 St. Vincent Avenue 
ST. LOUIS, MO. 



Designers and Makers of CHURCH WINDOWS 



OUR RECORD FOR 10 YEARS 

1901 TO 1911 

We Furnished Art Glass and Memorial Windows for 786 Churches 

in 29 States 



DR. WILLIAM HILL FIELD 

U6 First Street 
EVANSVILLE, IND. 



Practice Limited to Eye, Ear, 
Nose and Throat 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 



119 



aAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 

I THOROUGHLY RELIABLE | 

X THE BEST RESULTS ARE OBTAINED X 
w BY USING x 



Baker's 
Chocolate 

(Blue Wrapper* Yellow Label) 

In making Cakes, Pies, Puddings, 
Frosting, Ice Cream, Sauces, 
Fudges, Hot and Cold Drinks 

For more than 132 years this 
chocolate has been the standard 
for purity, delicacy of flavor 
and uniform quality. 

53 Highest Awards in Europe and America 

The trade-mark, "La Belle Chocolatiere," 
on every genuine package. A beautifully 
illustrated booklet of new recipes for 
Home Made Candies and Dainty Dishes 
sent free. Drop a Postal to 

Walter Baker & Co. Ltd. 




X 
X 
X 
X 

X 

X 
X 
X 



Registered 
U. S. Tat. Office 



Established 1780 



DORCHESTER, MASS. 



XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 



120 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

HARRY DALBY 

DEALER IN 

Hardware, Stoves, Tinware, 
and Graniteware 

Iron and Copperware, Iron and Tin Roofing and Spouting 

Grayville, Illinois 



Edw. F. Sonntag Mantel & Tile Co. 



Wood Mantels and Tiles 
Electrical Fixtures 



316-31 8-320 Up. 6th St. Evansville, Ind. 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 121 

J.M.BLOOD&BROS. 

Lumber and Building Material 

Saw and Planing Mill 

Oak and Gum Framing and Finishing 
Lumber a Specialty 

PHONE 30 GRAYVILLE, ILL. 



DR. C. S. KEAGY 

GRAYVILLE. ILLINOIS 



J. H. NASH & CO. 

Exclusive Furniture Dealer 



FUNERAL DIRECTOR AND 
EMBALMER 



GRAYVILLE :-: ILLINOIS 



122 GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 

Ronalds and Ronalds 

DEPARTMENT STORES 

GRAYVILLE -:- ILLINOIS 



CLOTHING GROCERIES DRY GOODS 
SHOES FURNITURE 

The Home of Hart, Schaffner and Marx Clothes 

Pingree Shoe for Women Hanan & Crossett Shoe for Men 



IVERS8PQNDHAN0S 




A Lifetime 
Of Musical Enjoyment 

AWAITS THE PURCHASER OF AN 

IVERS & POND PIANO 

Its rich powerful tone will more than satisfy the 
most critical taste. 

A visit to our store will surprise and please you. 





Oldendorfs Music House, Mt. Carmel, III. 

<Z &3k 



GRAYVILLE COOK BOOK 



123 




£Sa8S : :%¥S8>B8: 



J. L. PORTER, PRINCIPAL 



Draughon's Practical Business College* 



Day and Night Sessions 



Telephone 1199 



