A TEXT -BOOK OF 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

MATILDA G CAMPBELL 



A TEXTBOOK OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK BOSTON CHICAGO DALLAS 
ATLANTA SAN FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., LIMITED 

LONDON BOMBAY CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

TORONTO 



A TEXTBOOK OF 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



FOR HIGH SCHOOLS 



BY 



MATILDA G. CAMPBELL 

INSTRUCTOR IN HOME ECONOMICS, JESUP W. SCOTT HIGH SCHOOL, TOLEDO 

OHIO, LECTURER ON HOME ECONOMICS, UNIVERSITY OF 

CALIFORNIA, SUMMER SCHOOL, 1911 



gorfc 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 
1913 

All rights reserved 



COPYBIGHT, 1913, 

BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY. 



Set up and electrotyped. Published November, 1913. 



J. S. Cashing Co. Berwick & Smith Co. 
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

THIS textbook has been compiled in response to an ever 
increasing demand from instructors of Domestic Science for a 
book which can be placed in the hands of the student to use 
as a laboratory manual in the school, and as a practical cook- 
book in the home. 

To this end facts already being taught in well-established 
schools of Domestic Science have here been arranged in a 
concise manner, but much has been omitted that the instruc- 
tor will necessarily supply according to the needs of her school 
and locality. Sanitation, chemistry of cleaning, shelter, and 
many other subjects included under the term Domestic Sci- 
ence have not been considered here, as a proper treatment of 
them would produce sufficient material for another textbook. 

The contents of this book are confined largely to the sub- 
jects of food and nutrition and the application of heat to 
foods. Although the study of the natural sciences should be 
correlated with a course in Domestic Science, the text has not 
presupposed much knowledge of chemistry, physics, etc., on 
the part of the student. 

In view of the varying conditions that prevail in domestic 
science courses it has not been thought best to introduce any 
discussion of methods of instruction, but the arrangement and 
presentation of lessons has been left to the discretion of the 
instructor. 

It is earnestly hoped that the text will prove of genuine 
assistance to classes which are now overburdened with note- 
taking in gathering the fundamental principles of the science 
of food and nutrition. 

The author wishes to acknowledge a debt of gratitude to 
various standard authorities, freely quoted in the text. 



304743 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. THE RELATION OF FOOD TO THE BODY ... 1 

II. AIR AND COMBUSTION 7 

III. CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS CARBOHYDRATES . . 18 

IV. VEGETABLES 30 

V. SUGAR AND FRUITS ....... 43 

VI. FOOD PRESERVATION 50 

VII. SOUPS 59 

VIII. PROTEIN EGGS 68 

IX. PROTEIN COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEAT 77 

X. PROTEIN POULTRY AND FISH 100 

XI. PROTEIN MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS . . 108 

XII. WATER AND BEVERAGES ...... 115 

XIII. LEAVENING BATTERS AND DOUGHS . . . 123 

XIV. LEAVENING BREADS . 132 

XV. FATS FRYING AND PASTRY 143 

XVI. CAKES AND PUDDINGS . . . . . . 156 

XVII. MINERAL FOODS SALADS 168 

XVIII. GELATINE AND FROZEN DESSERTS .... 177 

XIX. INVALID COOKERY 184 

XX. TABLE SERVICE 191 

XXI. DIET AND NUTRITION . .... 196 



vii 



TEXTBOOK OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

CHAPTER I 
THE RELATION OF FOOD TO THE BODY 

FOODS are substances which, when taken into the body, 
provide it with heat and other forms of energy, and furnish 
it with material for growth and repair. In the case of a 
grown person, foods supply the fuel necessary for various 
bodily activities for walking, for mounting stairs, for lift- 
ing weights; and they keep the bodily machinery in repair. 
In the case of a growing person, they also supply materials 
for building up the bodily machinery. 

In order to understand how food can serve the body in 
the ways mentioned, it is necessary to know something about 
the composition of the body and also about the composition 
of food. Both, however, are exceedingly complex, and even 
those who are devoting their lives to the study of foods in 
their relation to the body have still much to discover upon 
the subject. The science of nutrition is a growing science, 
about which we hope in time to know much more than we 
do at present. 

As we study the substances found in nature we find that 
they are composed of elements which combine to form 
many compounds. An element may be defined as a sub- 
stance which has never been divided into anything simpler 
than itself. A compound is a substance which is composed 
of two or more elements. In all nature chemists have as 
B 1 



2 ' 'DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

yet discovered only about eighty elements and of these all 
compounds are made up. 

In the body there are known to be fifteen elements, which 
are combined to form over one hundred compounds. 

ELEMENTS PRESENT IN THE HUMAN BODY (H. C. SHERMAN) 

1. Oxygen 6. Phosphorus 11. Magnesium 

2. Carbon 7. Potassium 12. Iron 

3. Hydrogen 8. Sulphur 13. Iodine 

4. Nitrogen 9. Sodium 14. Fluorine 

5. Calcium 10. Chlorine 15. Silicon 

The body is constantly undergoing changes by which 
complex compounds are broken down, and new, simpler 
compounds are formed and are given off through the lungs 
and skin, from the kidneys, and otherwise. The result of 
this is that new material, containing the same elements as 
the compounds constantly excreted, must be supplied to the 
body in the form of food. A well-known chemist has re- 
ferred to the material which the body can use for repair and 
building of tissues as its " building stones." These " build- 
ing stones " must not only contain the elements of which 
the body is composed, but they must also be in a form in 
which the body can utilize them. 

In order to prepare the " building stones " to repair the 
body and to furnish it with fuel, many of them must first 
be changed by heat in the process of cooking, and they are 
all acted upon by the digestive juices after being taken into 
the body. 

All changes of matter are of two kinds, physical and chemi- 
cal. A physical change is one that does not cause a change 
in the composition of a substance, as the dissolving of sugar 



THE RELATION OF FOOD TO THE BODY 3 

in water, for the water being evaporated, the sugar will re- 
tain its physical properties. 

NOTE. Student make a list of physical changes. 

A chemical change is one that causes a change in the com- 
position of a substance, as, for example, the burning of sugar, 
when it loses all its physical properties. 

NOTE. Student make a list of chemical changes. 

The science of chemistry has to do with chemical changes. 
The science of physics has to do with physical changes. 

In the preparation of food, and in its digestion, assimi- 
lation, and excretion from the body, a series of very com- 
plex chemical and physical changes occurs. 

Among the most important and most abundant of the 
elements found in the body are oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, 
nitrogen, phosphorus, and sulphur. 

Oxygen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless gas and is the 
great supporter of life and combustion. It forms one-fifth 
of the volume of air and eight-ninths of the weight of water. 
It is a very active element, uniting with all other elements 
but one. It is more abundantly distributed in nature than 
any other element and forms about 66 per cent of the 
human body. 

NOTE. Teacher prepare oxygen and perform some simple ex- 
periments to illustrate its properties, using any standard Chemistry 
as a guide. 

Carbon is an odorless and tasteless solid. It is found in 
nature in a nearly pure state in several different forms. The 
diamond, hard coal, and graphite, while having vastly dif- 
ferent physical properties, are almost pure carbon. All 
living organisms, both animal and vegetable, contain carbon, 
and over one hundred thousand carbon compounds have 



4 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

been artificially prepared in the laboratory. Under certain 
circumstances carbon unites chemically with oxygen, form- 
ing carbon monoxide (CO) or carbon dioxide (CO 2 ). Heat 
is given off during this change. Carbon and its compounds 
form the larger part of fuels and of fuel- or heat-giving foods. 
Hydrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless gas and is the 
lightest substance known. It burns easily, or unites chemi- 
cally with oxygen, forming water (H 2 O), heat being given 
off during this change. Hydrogen burns in the body, but 
the heat is not intense. Hydrogen, as well as carbon, is 
found in fuels and in fuel foods ; in general, the higher the 
percentage of hydrogen in a food, the greater the amount 
of heat it yields when it burns. 

NOTE. Teacher prepare hydrogen and perform some simple 
experiments to illustrate its properties, using a standard Chemistry 
as a guide. 

Nitrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless gas. It forms 
about four-fifths of the atmosphere. It is an inert gas and 
forms compounds which easily decompose, a process which, 
as we shall see later, is due to the action of tiny living organ- 
isms called bacteria. Nitrogen is present in the protoplasm, 
the jelly like content of cells of plants and animals, and 
is an essential constituent of all living organisms. The 
human body contains about 2.4 per cent of nitrogen, which 
is obtained from certain foods that furnish nitrogen in a form 
that the body can digest and assimilate. Prominent among 
these foods are meat, eggs, fish, milk, etc. ; without a cer- 
tain amount of such foods the body would undergo nitrogen 
starvation. 

Sulphur is a yellow, combustible solid. It is always 
present in cell protoplasm in combination with the nitrogen 
compounds, and is essential for the body. Plants absorb 



THE RELATION OF FOOD TO THE BODY 5 

sulphur compounds, or sulphates from the soil, and animals 
obtain the sulphates which they require from vegetable 
foods and from meat, milk, eggs, etc. When foods that 
contain sulphur decompose under the action of bacteria, 
the sulphur unites with some of the hydrogen present, form- 
ing hydrogen sulphide (H 2 S), the disagreeable odor of which 
is known in spoiled eggs. 

Phosphorus is a highly combustible solid and in the pure 
state it is exceedingly poisonous. In combination in the form 
of phosphates, it is essential to every living cell in the body 
and must be supplied to the body by such foods as contain 
the phosphates in a form in which the body can assimilate 
them. Among these foods are meat, milk, egg yolk, wheat, 
grains, and the legumes. 

Organic and Inorganic Matter. All matter may be 
classified as organic or inorganic. All organic substances 
contain carbon. All substances that are formed during the 
processes of life are organic and, as before stated, great num- 
bers of carbon compounds have been artificially prepared. 

NOTE. Student make a list of eight organic substances. 
NOTE. Student make a list of eight inorganic substances. 

Chemical Symbols. In writing the names of elements it 
is often inconvenient to write the full name, hence the ele- 
ments are designated by their initial letters, or by those of 
their Latin names. These abbreviations are called symbols 
and represent one atom of the element and its combining 
weight. 

SYMBOLS OF THE ELEMENTS FOUND IN THE HUMAN BODY 

1. Oxygen . . . . O 5. Calcium Ca 

2. Carbon . . . . C 6. Phosphorus . . . . P 

3. Hydrogen . . . . H 7. Potassium . . . . K 

4. Nitrogen . . . . N 8. Sulphur S 



6 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

9. Sodium . . . . Na 13. Iodine I 

10. Chlorine . . . Cl 14. Fluorine F 

11. Magnesium . . Mg 15. Silicon Si 

12. Iron ...... Fe 

Chemical Formulas and Equations. The combination of 
symbols which represents the elements found in a molecule 
of a compound is called a chemical formula. H 2 is the 
formula for a molecule of water, water being composed of 
two parts by volume of hydrogen and one part of oxygen. 
C02 is the formula for carbon dioxide, which is composed of 
one part by volume of carbon and two parts of oxygen. 

When a substance undergoes a chemical change, or when 
two or more elements or compounds unite chemically, these 
changes may be represented by means of symbols or formulas 
in the form of an equation : 

H 2 + = H 2 
C + 2 = C0 2 
C +0 = CO (Carbon Monoxide) 



CHAPTER II 
AIR AND COMBUSTION 

Air. Air is necessary for the support of life and combus- 
tion. It is a mixture, not a compound; that is, the sub- 
stances of which it is composed are not chemically combined. 

It has definite weight. At the sea level the atmosphere 
exerts a pressure of fifteen pounds on every square inch of 
surface, but as the pressure is equal in every direction, we 
are not crushed by this weight. 

Air is composed of about one-fifth oxygen and four-fifths 
nitrogen. There are present also varying amounts of car- 
bon dioxide (C0 2 ), watery vapor, ammonia, dust, bacteria, 
etc. The nitrogen is not in a form in which it can be util- 
ized by either plants or animals. Upon the roots of certain 
plants, as clover, peas, beans, etc., are found nodules contain- 
ing bacteria which have the power of taking nitrogen from 
the air and changing it to such compounds of nitrogen as 
can be utilized by the plant. From these compounds the 
plant builds complex nitrogenous compounds which it stores 
in its cells as protein. 

The oxygen in the air supports combustion. 

EXPERIMENT 1. Light a splint and insert it in a dry, empty 
test tube. Is the flame extinguished ? Why ? 

EXPERIMENT 2. Put a lamp chimney over a lighted candle. 
Admit air from the bottom. Does the candle burn freely? 

Hold a strip of tissue paper near the bottom of the chimney, 
and also above the chimney. Explain the cause of movement of 
the paper. Cover the chimney on top and also exclude air from the 
bottom. Does the candle continue to burn ? Give reason. 

7 



8 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

EXPERIMENT 3. (To be performed by the instructor.) Float 
a cork with a small piece of phosphorus on it in a pan of water. 
Ignite the phosphorus and cover it quickly with a bell jar. (A 
fruit jar may be used.) 

With what does the phosphorus unite in burning to form the 
dense white fume ? 

What becomes of this fume as it disappears ? 

What part of the jar is filled with water? 

What component of the air has been burned out ? What com- 
ponent of the air remains in the jar, preventing the water from filling 
the entire jar? 

What proportion of the air is oxygen ? nitrogen ? 

EXPERIMENT 4. To examine air for dust, bacteria, etc. 

Put a drop of glycerine on a clean glass microscope slide. Ex- 
pose to the dust of the room until the next lesson. Cover the 
glycerine with a cover glass and examine under a microscope, first 
with a low power and then with a high power. Make a drawing 
of what you see. 

Oxidation and Combustion. Oxidation, or combustion, is 
the union of oxygen with any other substance. The process 
may be slow or rapid, but in either case heat is given off, 
even though not rapidly enough to be perceptible. Example : 
the rusting of iron is really the burning of iron, but the 
process is so slow that we do not detect the heat given off. 

Fuels are composed largely of carbon and hydrogen which, 
in burning, unite with oxygen of the air giving off heat. 

Products of Combustion. 

EXPERIMENT 5. Hold a saucer in a candle flame. Note the 
black deposit that forms on it. What element is present in the 
candle? What is smoke? Do we get the maximum heat from 
fuel when smoke is given off during combustion ? 

Identification Test for Carbon Dioxide. Put some filtered lime- 
water in a glass beaker or tumbler. Breathe through a glass tube 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 9 

into the limewater, which will become cloudy from the carbon 
dioxide present in the breath exhaled from the lungs. This test is 
used to identify carbon dioxide, which always causes limewater to 
become cloudy. An excess of C0 2 causes the cloudiness to disappear. 

EXPERIMENT 6. Hold a bell jar over a burning candle for a 
short time, collecting any gases which may be given off during com- 
bustion. Invert the bell jar, pour into it some filtered limewater, 
cover the jar, and shake well. Does the limewater become cloudy ? 
What gas was given off during the burning of the candle ? 

EXPERIMENT 7. Cover a burning candle with a dry bell jar. 
Note the formation of water on the sides of the jar. Is the water a 
product of combustion ? Write the equation for the forming of H 2 0. 

Summary of products of combustion : 

C + = CO, carbon monoxide, a poisonous gas given off in com- 
bustion when the supply of oxygen is deficient. 
The blue flame on the surface of a coal fire is 
burning CO. All stoves should have perfect 
chimney connections to carry off this poisonous 
gas. 

C + 2 = C0 2 , carbon dioxide. 

H 2 + = H 2 0, water. 

Unconsumed carbon = smoke. 

Mineral matter = ash. 

Flame. When two substances unite chemically, and 
both are gases or vapors at the temperature of combustion, 
the act of union is accompanied by a flame. When one of 
the substances remains solid at the temperature of combus- 
tion, heat and light are given off, but there is no flame. 
Many substances which are solids or liquids at ordinary 
temperatures vaporize slowly when at the temperature of 
burning and hence burn with a flame. The light given by 
the flame is caused by the glowing, or incandescence, of the 
solid carbon particles. At a higher temperature the carbon 



10 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

is quickly and completely burned and gives no light, but 
burns with a blue flame. 

When gas is used as a fuel it is mixed with air before 
burning, in order that it may be diluted, when there will be 
a more perfect combustion. A gas used as fuel should burn 
with a blue flame ; a yellow or a smoky flame indicates that 
the carbon is not being completely consumed and there is an 
attendant loss of heat. 

NOTE. Students examine carefully a Bunsen or other gas burner, 
increasing and decreasing the supply of oxygen by opening and 
closing the mixer. Note the varying color of the flame and the 
seeming increase or loss of heat. 

Kindling Point. Every combustible solid must be raised 
to a certain temperature, or kindling point, before it will 
unite rapidly enough with oxygen to produce light. This 
temperature varies with different substances, but is always 
the same for the same substance. The kindling point of 
phosphorus is very low. Ordinary parlor matches are tipped 
with phosphorus, potassium chlorate, and glue. The heat 
produced by the friction of striking the match is sufficient 
to raise the phosphorus to its burning point. The heat 
produced by the burning of the phosphorus raises the wood 
of the match to its kindling point, and the match ignites. 

NOTE. Student explain the steps in fire building by which 
hard coal may be raised to its kindling point. 

Flash Point. The temperature to which a fat or oil must 
be raised before an inflammable vapor is given off is called 
the flash point. This is a valuable indication of the safety 
of an oil. 

Fuels. A fuel is a combustible substance usually com- 
posed of carbon and hydrogen. 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 11 

NOTE. Student prepare a list of fuels 

SOLIDS LIQUIDS GASES 



NOTE. Students inspect specimens of hard and soft woods ; 
charcoal ; peat ; bituminous, anthracite, and cannel coal ; various 
fuel oils ; alcohols. 

Students write paper on the "Story of Coal." 

Students procure the current market price of the various fuels 
listed above. From the cost of a basket of coal or "bundle of 
wood," estimate the price paid for a ton of coal and a cord of wood 
when purchased in small quantities. 

Heat. Heat is molecular motion. 
Sources of heat : 

1. Mechanical energy. 

Produced by friction or by collision. 

2. Chemical energy. 

Produced by combustion or by chemical union of dif- 
ferent compounds or elements. 

3. Electrical energy. 

As produced by an electric toaster, etc., or by the 

sun's rays. 

Heat is transferred from one body to another or to dif- 
ferent parts of the same body by conduction, convection, 
and radiation. 

Conduction : 

EXPERIMENT 8. Place rods of wood, metal, and glass on an 
asbestos mat over a gas burner with the ends of the rods extending 
beyond the mat. The metal rod will soon become hot, while the 
other two will not be appreciably heated. Metals are good con- 



12 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

ductors of heat and cold, glass and wood are poor conductors. Air 
is a very poor conductor. 

The conduction of heat consists of the transfer of motion from 
molecule to molecule. 

NOTE. Students make a list of good conductors ; of poor con- 
ductors. 

Why are wooden handles placed upon teakettles, flat-irons, 
etc. ? Why is the handle of a kettle sometimes made in the form 
of a spiral ? Why is the outer portion of an ice cream freezer made 
of wood ? Why is the inner can made of metal ? What is the prin- 
ciple upon which a fireless cooker is constructed? a thermos 
bottle ? How should the oven of a stove be constructed ? 

Convection: 

EXPERIMENT 9. Partly fill a glass beaker with water, add one 
half teaspoon of sawdust, and heat slowly. A movement will be 
seen in the sawdust, indicating that the heat sets up currents in 
the water which have an upward direction immediately over the 
flame. The water nearest the flame becomes heated and expands ; 
this makes it lighter and it rises, while the cold water of the top 
takes its place, thus causing the currents noted. This method of 
heat transference, which takes place in liquids and in gases, is 
called convection. There are convection currents in the atmosphere, 
caused by the unequal heating of the earth by the sun. The air 
over a heated portion of the earth rises, and the cool air rushes in 
to take its place. 

NOTE. What is the principle of heating a building with a hot- 
water system ? How should a room be ventilated ? 

Radiation : 

EXPERIMENT 10. When you hold your hand in front of a fire, 
heat travels directly from the fire to the hand. This method of 
heat transference, in which heat travels in straight lines, or radiates 
through the atmosphere, is known as radiation. 

NOTE. How is heat transferred in making toast ? in broiling ? 
Is there loss of heat from radiation in the ordinary cook stove ? 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 13 

NOTE. Students examine the stoves and ranges in use in the 
domestic science laboratory. Make drawings of them, showing the 
principle of heat conveyance and the system of dampers used for 
admitting oxygen to the fire and for controlling the heat currents. 
Bring a detailed drawing of the stove used at home. Test various 
parts of the school oven with paper or flour, showing in what part 
of the oven the heat is the most intense. Examine also and make 
drawings of 

1. Gas burners and their mixers. 

2. Fireless cookers. 

3. Electric stoves. 

4. Kerosene stoves. 

5. Gasoline stoves. 

Discuss the evolution of the cook stove. Catalogues showing 
modern stoves, including gas stoves, electric stoves, etc., should be 
shown to students or be collected by them. 

The construction of cook stoves is at present in a transition 
stage and drawings are not given in this text, as it is hoped 
soon that the construction of stoves will be materially 
changed. The loss of heat and the attendant waste of fuel 
in heating an ordinary oven is very great. It is said that 
only about seven per cent of the heat is utilized. Modern 
stoves are now being constructed with non-conducting sub- 
stances around the air chambers which surround the ovens 
so that the waste of heat is much reduced. An oven ther- 
mometer should be placed on every oven to substitute a scien- 
tific means of regulation for the old-fashioned dependence on 
" luck " when baking. With gas and electric stoves a ther- 
mostat should shut off heat when a certain temperature has 
been attained, the baking being then completed by the re- 
tained heat of the oven. 

Cooking is the art of preparing food for the nourishment 
of the human body by the aid of heat. We cook food to 
make it more palatable, more digestible, and to destroy any 
harmful bacteria which it may contain. 



14 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The processes of cooking may be classed as : 

1. Boiling. 

a. Cooking directly in water. 
6. Steaming. 

(1) Moist, cooking in a steamer. 

(2) Dry, cooking in double boiler. 

2. Roasting. 

a. Roasting in front of open fire. 

b. Roasting in hot oven. 

3. Broiling. 

a. Broiling over red-hot coals or gas flame. 
6. Pan-broiling in very hot pan (without fat). 

4. Frying. 

a. Deep frying. 

6. Sauteing, or frying in small amount of fat. 

Boiling : 

EXPERIMENT 11. Put cold water in glass beaker or stewpan. 
Heat. With thermometer note temperature at which small bub- 
bles form on the bottom and sides of the beaker and rise to the 
surface. What are these bubbles ? Where do they break ? Note 
temperature at which larger bubbles rise ; and also note tempera- 
ture when the surface of the water is completely agitated. What 
are these large bubbles ? Where do they break ? What is the tem- 
perature of simmering water ? of boiling water ? How is the heat 
of the fire conveyed to the water? How is the heat conveyed 
through the water? Note the deposit left on the pan after the 
water has boiled away; what is this deposit? Give two reasons 
why boiled water tastes flat. Why should water be freshly boiled 
for tea and coffee? How can you improve the taste of water 
which has been boiled ? 

EXPERIMENT 12. Let water boil gently. Note temperature. 
Let it boil rapidly. Note temperature. Does water get hotter 
than its boiling point in an ordinary kettle ? What becomes of the 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 15 

excess heat? What important point in the economy of fuel in 
cooking does this emphasize ? 

EXPERIMENT 13. A. Put equal amounts of water in two 
beakers of the same size. Let the water in one beaker boil gently 
for about five minutes ; in the other let it boil rapidly. Compare 
the rate of evaporation of the water in the two beakers. 

B. Put equal amounts of water in two vessels of equal capacity, 
having one vessel shallow and broad and the other deep and narrow. 
Boil the water in them for an equal length of time and compare 
the rate of evaporation in the two vessels. Does the shape of the 
pan used and the rapidity of boiling have any bearing on practical 
cookery ? 

EXPERIMENT 14. Mix \ cup of sugar and \ cup of water ; 
boil and note temperature, with confectioner's or laboratory ther- 
mometer; compare boiling point of the mixture with that of boil- 
ing water. Continue the boiling, noting any change of temperature. 

Stages in Sugar Boiling : 

Soft Ball. At 237 F. drop some of the sugar mixture 
into ice water. Form it into a ball between the thumb and 
finger, keeping under the water. 

Hard Ball. At 256 F. drop some of the mixture into 
ice water. Form it into a ball and compare with the soft 
ball. 

Soft Crack. At 290 F. drop some of mixture into ice 
water. This cracks, but if put between the teeth, will 
stick. 

Hard Crack. At 310 F. drop some of mixture into ice 
water. This cracks, but does not stick to the teeth. 

Continue boiling the syrup until it is a light brown color, 
or caramel. Pour into a tin pan and let cool. 

Under what condition does the boiling point of a liquid 
vary? Explain the value of a thermometer in candy 
making. 



16 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Boiling Point. The boiling point of water at sea level is 
212 Fahrenheit or 100 centigrade. The boiling points of 
liquids vary both with their composition and with the atmos- 
pheric pressure. It is necessary for water to overcome the 
atmospheric pressure before it can be changed to steam. 
If the altitude increases, as in ascending a mountain, the 
atmospheric pressure is lessened, hence less heat is required 
to overcome it, and water boils at a lower temperature. 
The boiling point of water is decreased 1 F. for each increase 
of 479 feet in altitude. What is the temperature of boiling 
water on Mt. Blanc? 

TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS 

Ts. Teaspoonful Qt. Quart 

Tb. Tablespoonful Lb. Pound 

C. Cupful Oz. Ounce 

Ssp. Saltspoonful M. Minute 

Pt. Pint H. Hour 

Measurements. All measurements in this book are 
level. Accurate measuring is necessary to insure uniform 
success in cookery and to eliminate the element of " luck." 

The standard measuring cup is one holding one-half 
pint. 

The standard tablespoon is one holding one-sixteenth of a 
cupful. 

One-half spoonful is measured by dividing the spoonful in 
two lengthwise. 

Flour is measured after being sifted once, and is placed 
in the cup with a spoon that it may not be packed. The 
flour should be rounded slightly in the cup and then be 
leveled off with a knife. 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 17 

EQUIVALENT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

To be verified by class or by individual experiment. 

4 ssp.= 1 ts. 8 or 9 eggs= 1 Ib. 

2 ts.= 1 tb. 4 c. flour = 1 Ib. 

16 tb.= 1 c. 2 c. butter = 1 Ib. 

2 gills = 1 c. 2 c. gran, sugar = 1 Ib. 

2 c.= 1 pt. 2i c. pow. sugar = 1 Ib. 

2 pt. = 1 qt. 2f c. corn meal= 1 Ib. 

4 qt.= 1 gal. 2 c. raisins = 1 Ib. 

8 qt. = 1 peck 2 c. chopped meat = 1 Ib. 

4 pk.= 1 bu. 1 tb. butter = \ oz. 

1 tb. sugar = \ oz. 



CHAPTER III 
CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS CARBOHYDRATES 

Classification of Foods and their General Uses in the Body : 

A. ORGANIC FOODS. 
1. Carbohydrates. 

Composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 
Examples. 1. Starch in cereals, etc. 

2. Sugar. 

3. Cellulose. 

Uses in body. 1. To supply heat and energy. 
2. To form fat. 

2. Fats. 

Composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 
Examples. 1. Fat of meats. 

2. Cream. 

3. Butter. 

4. Olive oil, etc. 

Uses in body. 1. To supply heat and energy. 
2. To form fat. 

3. Protein. 

Composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, 

sulphur, and sometimes phosphorus. 
Examples. 1. Albumen of egg. 

2. Casein of milk. 

3. Fibrin of meat. 

4. Gluten of wheat. 

5. Legumen of peas and beans, etc. 
Uses in body. 1. To form tissue. 

2. To supply heat and energy. 

3. To form fat. 
18 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 19 

B. INORGANIC FOODS. 

1. Water. 

Composed of hydrogen and oxygen, H 2 0. 

Uses in body. 1. Forms two-thirds of body 

weight. 

2. Carrier of nutritive material 
and of waste products. 

2. Mineral Matter. 

Examples. 1. Sodium chloride. 

2. Phosphate of lime. 

3. Compounds of potassium, iron, 

magnesium, etc. 

Uses in body. 1. -Aid in forming bone, teeth, 
etc. 

2. Assist in digestion. 

3. Necessary for tissues, blood, 

etc. 

C. FOOD ADJUNCTS AND ACCESSORIES. 

1. Condiments and Spices. 

Examples. 1. Mustard. 

2. Pepper. 

3. Spices. 

Uses in body. 1. Stimulate the appetite. 

2. Increase flow of digestive 
fluids. 

2. Vegetable Adds. 

Examples. 1. Citric acid in lemons and oranges. 

2. Malic acid in apples. 

3. Oxalic acid in rhubarb. 

4. Tartaric acid in grapes. 

3. Caffeine in tea and coffee. 
Theobromine in cocoa. 



20 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

CARBOHYDRATES 

A carbohydrate is a compound composed of carbon, hydro- 
gen, and oxygen. Hydrogen and oxygen are always present 
in the same proportion as they are in water 2 : 1 (H 2 O). 

Chemical Formula : 

Cellulose cC 6 Hio0 5 ). 
Starch (C6Hi 6 ). 
Glucose (C 6 Hi 2 6 ). 
Cane Sugar (Ci 2 H 22 On). 

The carbohydrates include starches, sugars, and plant 
fibers, or cellulose. 

Carbohydrates are found 

1. In plants as starches, sugars, and cellulose. 

2. In milk as lactose or milk sugar. 

3. In the liver of animals as glycogen or animal starch. 

4. In body tissues as inosite or muscle sugar. 

Starch is formed by the chlorophyll of the plant cell, 
under the action of the sun's rays, from the carbon dioxide 
of the air and the water drawn from the soil. The process 
is a complex one, but the net result may be shown by the 
following equation : 

carbon dioxide + water = starch + oxygen 
6 C0 2 +5 H 2 = C 6 H 10 5 + 6 2 

or Glucose 

6 C0 2 + 6 H 2 = C 6 Hi 2 6 + 6 2 

Starch. Starch is the most abundantly distributed in 
nature of any of the carbohydrates, for it is the chief form 
in which plants store their carbohydrate. It is found in 
fruits, seeds, roots, tubers, bulbs, stems, and leaves of various 
plants. In the United States the starch of commerce is 
obtained chiefly from corn. 



CARBOHYDRATES 21 

Starch exists in the form of minute granules which are 
formed in the plant during its growth. The granules are 
composed of alternate layers of starch and cellulose, those 
of different plants having characteristic shapes which can 
be recognized by examination with a microscope. Owing 
to its wide distribution, and to the fact that it may be easily 
stored because it does not decompose readily, starch is the 
cheapest form of food and is often used to excess in the diet. 

Structure of the Starch Granule. Examine under the 
microscope and make drawings of starch granules from corn, 
potato, wheat. 

Identification Test for Starch. Mix a little starch and cold 
water, boil, and cool. Add a drop of iodine. The blue color which 
results is characteristic of starch. With raw starch, iodine gives a 
purple color. 

EXPERIMENT 15. Test various foods with iodine to ascertain 
whether they contain starch. Tabulate results. 

Solubility of Starch. 

EXPERIMENT 16. Mix | tsp. starch in I c. cold water. Filter 
through filter paper. Test the nitrate and also the residue on the 
paper with iodine for starch. Did the starch pass through the 
filter ? Is starch soluble in cold water ? 

EXPERIMENT 17. Mix \ ts. starch in \ c. cold water. Heat 
to boiling. Filter. Test as above. Did any of the starch pass 
through the filter? Is starch at least partly soluble in boiling 
water ? Examine some of the cooked starch under the microscope. 
Has any change taken place in the form of the granule ? 

EXPERIMENT 18. Pour boiling water directly upon dry starch. 
Examine lumps. What caused them to form ? 

EXPERIMENT 19. Mix starch with cold water and stir into 
boiling water. Did lumps form in the mixture ? Give one method 
by which lumps may be avoided when starch is used to thicken a 
mixture. 



22 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Dextrin. Before starch can be absorbed into the blood, 
to be utilized in giving heat and energy to the body or to be 
stored as fat, it must first be changed to a soluble carbohy- 
drate or form of sugar. Before the final change to sugar 
takes place an intermediate product is formed called dextrin. 
This has the same chemical formula as starch (CeHioOs),,, 
but possesses different properties. 

Dextrin may be formed (1) by the application of heat to 
dry starch, as in t>r&wning of flour ; (2) it is the first change 
that occurs when the enzymes, ptyalin of saliva, amylopsin 
of the pancreatic juice, or diastase of sprouting grains, con- 
vert starch into sugar. 

Identification Test for Dextrin. Brown some flour without burn- 
ing it, add water ; shake well. Add a drop of iodine. The reddish 
brown color which results is a characteristic test for dextrin. 

EXPERIMENT 20. Mix some browned flour or well-browned 
toast with water. Let stand awhile. Filter. Test filtrate for 
dextrin. 

Is dextrin soluble in cold water? Does it differ from starch in 
this respect ? 

EXPERIMENT 21. Test the brown crust of bread, and also the 
white crumb of the center of the loaf, for dextrin. 

Which is the more soluble, hence the more digestible, the crust 
or the crumb of bread ? 

Cellulose. Cellulose forms the basis of the cell structure 
of plants. Cotton and linen fiber are nearly pure cellulose. 
Paper consists largely of cellulose. Cellulose, as a rule, is 
hard and dense and resists the action of the digestive juices, 
so that when taken as a food, it is excreted without having 
been changed by the digestive juices. The cellulose of 
young and tender plants may be in part digested. Cooking 
tends to soften cellulose, thus making vegetables, cereals, 



CARBOHYDRATES 23 

and fruits more digestible ; and it also disintegrates the 
starch granule, making the starch available as food. 

While having but little nutritive value, cellulose is very 
beneficial in the diet, as it is a mechanical stimulus to the 
action of the large intestine, thus tending to prevent consti- 
pation. It also absorbs and dilutes the waste products 
formed during digestion. Uncooked cellulose should not be 
given in large amounts to young childrem ( 

METHODS OF USING STARCH AS A THICKENING AGENT 

EXPERIMENT 22. Method 1. a. Mix 1 tb. flour with 1 tb. water. 

b. Mix 1 tb. flour with 2 tb. water. 

c. Mix 1 tb. flour with 3 tb. water. 

Stir each mixture until it is smooth, noting the time required to 
obtain results. State the proportion of water to be used with 
flour to form a smooth paste. 

Boil \ c. water, add some of the boiling water to part (a), stirring 
constantly. Pour this slowly into the rest of the boiling water, 
stirring until it thickens and is smooth. 

Deduce a rule for using starch in the form of a powder, as a 
thickening agent. Let mixture cool and note how it forms a starch 
jelly. 

EXPERIMENT 23. Method 2. Rub to a smooth paste 1 tb. 
butter and 1 tb. flour. Boil | c. water, pour part of it on the butter 
and flour mixture to thin it. Pour this slowly into the rest of the 
boiling water, stirring until it thickens and is smooth. 

Deduce a rule for using starch as a thickening agent when some 
fat is used. 

EXPERIMENT 24. Method 3. Melt 1 tb. butter, add 1 tb. flour ; 
when well mixed, add \ c. milk or water, stirring until it thickens 
and is smooth. 

Deduce a second rule for thickening with starch when fat is 
used. Compare results with those of the two previous methods. 
Which mixture has the smoothest and richest texture? 



24 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

EXPERIMENT 25. Brown 1 tb. butter, add l tb. flour, and then 
brown them together ; add | c. water or soup stock, and cook until 
smooth. 

Deduce method of making a brown sauce. How would you 
make a brown gravy for meats ? Compare thickness of liquid with 
the previous experiments. Is more browned flour required for 
thickening ? Why ? 

Meat and Vegetable Sauces are of two general varieties, 
white and brown, and from these many sauces may be pre- 
pared by varying the ingredients and the seasonings. 

General Method of Making Sauces. Melt the butter in 
a stewpan or double boiler, add the flour, and when well 
mixed, add the liquid. If the liquid is hot, add it one-third 
at a time, cooking each portion till thick and smooth. If the 
liquid is cold, it may all be added at once, stirring constantly 
until it thickens and is free from lumps. Add seasoning. 

This method gives the finest quality of sauce, but methods 
of thickening 1 or 2 may be used when the liquid is already 
combined with the meat or vegetable. 

PROPORTION OF FLOUR FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES 

1 tb. flour (\ to 1 tb. butter) to 1 c. liquid for cream soups. 

2 tb. flour (2 tb. butter) to 1 c. liquid for ordinary white 

sauce. 

3 tb. flour (2 to 3 tb. butter) to 1 c. liquid for white sauce 

for creamed oysters, etc. 

4 tb. flour (2 to 4 tb. butter) to 1 c. liquid for white sauce 

for croquettes, etc. 

When flour is browned (dextrinized) for brown sauce, the 
amount used must be increased J tb. for every cup liquid, 
as browning causes flour to lose some of its thickening 
power. 



CARBOHYDRATES 25 



Cornstarch Pudding 

Use method 1 of thickening with starch 
5 tb. cornstarch 1 pt. scalded milk 

| c. sugar | ts. salt 

c. cold milk ts. vanilla 



Scald milk in double boiler. Mix dry ingredients with the cold 
milk and stir this into remainder of hot milk. Cook fifteen minutes. 
Add vanilla. Pour into a mold wet in cold water; let stand till 
cold. Serve with sweetened and flavored cream, with boiled cus- 
tard, or with cooked fruit. One half square melted chocolate may 
be added during the cooking. 

At the end of five minutes remove 1 ts. of mixture, again at end 
of ten minutes, and at end of fifteen minutes. Compare the taste 
of the three samples. How long should cornstarch mixtures be 
cooked ? Why does the pudding thicken as it cools ? 

CEREALS 

The grains used chiefly in the United States for breakfast 
foods are corn, oats, wheat, and rice. 

Corn is a native American grain and is the most abundant 
food product grown in the United States. It furnishes more 
nourishment for the money expended than most of our 
other foods and, if well cooked, can be made into many 
palatable dishes. 

From corn are prepared cornstarch, corn meal, corn flour, 
hominy, samp, hulled corn, and some " ready-to-eat " 
cereals, such as corn flakes. 

Oats are grown in northern regions and are used exten- 
sively for porridge and, in Scotland, for oat cakes. The 
old-fashioned oatmeal, which was sold in uncooked form and 
had much of the husk left on it, had to be cooked several 
hours; the modern preparations, such as rolled oats, for 
example, are steamed and while still moist the grains are 



26 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



passed between hot rollers ; they are, therefore, partially 
cooked and require less cooking in the home. Oats are rich 
in fat, and therefore make a good food for winter. 

Wheat, when finely ground, is the most important of 
bread stuffs, but it is also used extensively as a breakfast 
food. Cracked wheat is the crushed grain with part of the 
bran left on it and should be cooked for several hours. 
Special parts of the wheat grain are used in preparing va- 
rious breakfast foods. Some breakfast foods are prepared 
from a dough made of wheat flour, baked, then dried and 
toasted. 

From wheat are prepared graham, entire wheat, and white 
flour of various grades, many breakfast foods, macaroni, 
spaghetti, etc. 

Rice is a grass native to India. It is the staple food in 
all tropical and semi-tropical regions, and is much used else- 
where. It is said to form the main food of one-third of 
the human race. Being deficient in fat and protein, it 
usually is supplemented with foods rich in these two food 
principles. 

TABLE OF COMPOSITION OF CEREALS (ATWATER) 





WATER 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES 


ASH 




Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Entire wheat flour 


11.4 


13.8 


k9 


71.9 


1.0 


Graham flour . . . 


11.3 


13.3 


2.2 


71.4 


1.8 


White flour (medium) 


12.0 


11.4 


1.0 


75.1 


0.5 


Wheat breakfast food 


9.6 


12.1 


1.8 


75.2 


1.3 


Corn meal .... 


12.5 


9.2 


1.9 


75.4 


1.0 


Oat breakfast food 


7.7 


16.7 


7.3 


66.2 


2.1 


Rice 


12.3 


8.0 


0.3 


79.0 


0.4 


Rye flour . . . . . 


12.9 


6.8 


0.9 


78.7 


0.7 


Macaroni . . . . 


10.3 


13.4 


0.9 


74.1 


1.3 



CARBOHYDRATES 



27 



Cooking of Cereals. The chief purposes of cooking cereals 
are : 

(1) To sterilize them. 

(2) To improve flavor and appearance. 

(3) To hydrate the starch and cellulose and rupture the 
tissues, in order to make them more easily digestible. 

As cereals contain from 66 to 79 per cent of starch and 
but 7 to 12 per cent of water, they must be cooked in several 
times their volume of water. Add J ts. salt for every pint 
of water used. 

TABLE FOR COOKING CEREALS 





AMOUNT DRY 
CEREAL 


AMOUNT 
WATER 


TIME OF 
COOKING 


Rolled Oats . . . 


1 C. 


2 C. 


\ to I h. 


Rice 


1 C. 


2 to 2 c. 


1 h. 


Cream of wheat 


C. 


4 c. 


f h. 


Corn meal 
Coarse oatmeal 


f c - 
1 C. 


4c. 
4c. 


It 

3h. 



General Method of Cooking Cereals. In the upper part 
of a double boiler put the required amount of water and 
salt. When the water boils, add the cereal slowly, stirring 
constantly. Cook for five minutes directly over the fire. 
Place the upper boiler in the lower part of double boiler 
containing boiling water, cover and cook the required time 
without stirring. All cereals must be thoroughly cooked. 

Corn Meal Mush 

Moisten the corn meal with \ c. of cold water before stirring it 
into the boiling water, to avoid having the mixture lumpy. Serve 
the mush hot, or put into square molds, or baking powder cans, 
and, when cold, remove from molds, slice, roll in flour, and sauter 
in hot fat. 



28 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



To wash Rice. Always wash rice before using it, by put- 
ting it into a strainer and putting the strainer in a bowl of 
cold water, changing the water often until it is clear; this 
removes the loose starch and prevents the rice from becom- 
ing pasty in cooking. 

Baked Rice 

Steam 1 c. rice, \ ts. salt in 2| c. stock or water, 1 h. ; add 1 c. 
tomato, 2 tb. butter, \ ts. paprika, or a little chopped green pepper, 
\ ts. curry powder. Cook fifteen minutes. Put into buttered bak- 
ing dish, cover top with buttered crumbs, and bake till brown, about 
twenty minutes. Curry powder may be omitted and grated cheese 
to taste added in its place. 

Home-made " Ready-to-eat " Cereals. Heat white, rye, 
or entire-wheat bread slowly in the oven until thoroughly dry 
and a golden brown in color ; cool and crush with a rolling 
pin. This is equal in flavor and digestibility to many of 
the breakfast foods on the market and may be prepared at 
much less cost. Serve with milk or cream. 



AMOUNT OF CEREAL OBTAINED FOR TEN CENTS 
(To be prepared by student) 









TOTAL AMOUNTS 


CEREAL, 


PRICE 

PER LB. 


NO. LB. FOR 

10 CENTS 




Protein 


Fats 


Carbo- 
hydrates 








% of Ib. 


% of Ib. 


% of Ib. 


1. Cornmeal . . 


.02 


5 


46 


9.5 


377.0 


2. 












3. 












4. 












5. 













Weigh " ready-to-eat " breakfast foods and compute 



CARBOHYDRATES 29 

the cost per pound paid for the cereal when so prepared for 
the market. 

To serve Cereals. As cereals are about three-fourths 
starch, it is not necessary to add sugar, which is but another 
form of carbohydrate, except as a flavor. As they are defi- 
cient in fat, cream is a valuable addition. Milk increases 
both the amount of fat and protein. If fruits are served 
with cereals, they supply organic acids, in which the cereals 
are deficient, as well as mineral matter and sugar. 

Fruits to serve with cereals : 

1. Baked apples 5. Peaches 

2. Stewed prunes 6. Figs or dates, cut in pieces, 

3. Berries may be stirred into the 

4. Sliced bananas cereal before it is taken 

from the fire 

NOTE. Put grains of corn, oats, rye, in wet cotton ; place them 
where they will get sunshine and keep them well moistened until the 
grains sprout. Note carefully any changes in the grains and in 
the consistency of their starch content. Why does nature store the 
various food principles in the grains ? What part of the plant is 
the grain ? Plant some of the grains in earth in flower pots and let 
them grow to maturity. 



CHAPTER IV 
VEGETABLES 

COMPOSITION OF VEGETABLES (ATWATER) 





REFUSE 

% 


WATER 

% 


PROTEIN 

% 


FAT 

% 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES 

% 


ASH 

% 


Beans, dried . . . 




12.6 


22.5 


1.8 


59.6 


3.5 


Beans, lima, fresh- 
shelled .... 




68.5 


7.1 


.7 


22.0 


1.7 


Beans, string 


7.0 


83.0 


2.1 


.3 


6.9 


.7 


Beets . . . . . 


20.0 


70.0 


1.3 


.1 


7.7 


.9 


Cabbage .... 


15.0 


77.7 


1.4 


.2 


4.8 


.9 


Celery .... 


20.0 


75.6 


.9 


.1 


2.6 


.8 


Corn, green edible 














portion . . . 




75.4 


3.1 


1.1 


19.7 


.7 


Cucumbers . . . 


15.0 


81.8 


.7 


.2 


2.6 


.4 


Lettuce . ... 


15.0 


80.5 


1.0 


.2 


2.5 


.8 


Mushrooms . 




88.1 


3.5 


.4 


6.8 


1.2 


Onions 


10.0 


78.9 


1.4 


.3 


8.9 


.5 


Parsnips .... 


20.0 


66.4 


1.3 


.4 


10.8 


1.1 


Peas, dried . . . 




9.5 


24.6 


1.0 


62.0 


2.9 


Peas, fresh-shelled 




74.6 


7.0 


.5 


16.9 


1.0 


Potatoes .... 


20.0 


62.6 


1.8 


.1 


14.7 


.8 


Rhubarb .... 


40.0 


56.6 


.4 


.4 


2.2 


.4 


Sweet potatoes . . 


20.0 


55.2 


1.4 


.6 


21.9 


.9 


Spinach .... 




92.3 


2.1 


.3 


3.2 


2.1 


Squash . . . . 


50.0 


44.2 


.7 


.2 


4.5 


.4 


Tomatoes . . . 




94.3 


.9 


.4 


3.9 


.5 


Turnips .... 


30.0 


62.7 


.9 


.1 


5.7 


.6 


Vegetables, canned . 














Baked beans 




68.9 


6.9 


2.5 


19.6 


2.1 


Peas, green . . . 




85.3 


3.6 


.2 


9.8 


1.1 


Corn, green . . . 




76.1 


2.8 


1.2 


19.0 


.9 


Succotash . . . 




75.9 


3.6 


1.0 


18.6 


.9 


Tomatoes 




94.0 


1.2 


4 .2 


4.0 


.6 



30 



VEGETABLES 



31 



AMOUNT OF NUTRIENTS OBTAINED FOR TEN CENTS 
(To be prepared by student) 



PRICE VEGETABLE 
perlb. 


No. OF LBS. 
for 10 cts. 


TOTAL AMOUNTS 


PROTEIN 
% of Ib. 


FATS 
% of Ib. 


CARBOHYDRATES 
% of Ib. 













General Composition of Vegetables. Vegetable foods, 
with the exception of cereals, legumes, and nuts, contain a 
large amount of water, hence a small amount of solid nu- 
trients. Young, fresh vegetables contain a sufficient amount 
of water to hydrate the starch and cellulose content, and so 
may be cooked without the addition of water. Vegetables 
contain but a small amount of protein, their principal solid 
being a carbohydrate, either in the form of starch, sugar, 
pectin, or cellulose. They contain mineral matter which is 
highly important in the diet. 

PARTS OF PLANTS USED FOR FOOD 

Seeds Peas, beans. 

Roots Beets, carrots, turnips, parsnips, radishes, sweet potatoes, 

salsify. 

Tubers White potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes. 
Bulbs Onions, garlic, shallots. 
Stems Asparagus, celery, chives, rhubarb. 
Leaves Cabbage, lettuce, Brussels sprouts, beet greens, water 

cress, spinach. 
Flowers Cauliflower. 
Fruit Wheat and the grains, cucumbers, tomatoes, egg plant, 

squash. 
Fungi Mushrooms, puff balls. 



32 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

To prepare Vegetables for Cooking. Vegetables should 
be thoroughly cleaned before being cooked. A small scrub- 
bing brush will help to clean potatoes thoroughly and 
quickly. If vegetables are wilted, they should be soaked in 
cold water before cooking. Vegetables that are to be eaten 
raw, as lettuce and celery, must be cleaned with great care, 
as the dirt which adheres to them may contain disease-pro- 
ducing bacteria. Radishes and other small vegetables may 
be dipped quickly into boiling water to destroy bacteria and 
then into ice water to make them crisp. Cabbages, cauli- 
flower, Brussels sprouts should be soaked, heads down, in 
cold water containing salt or a little vinegar, which will 
drive out insects that may be present in them. 

General Method of Cooking Vegetables. Most of the 
fresh vegetables should be put into boiling salted water to 
cook, the amount of water used varying with the amount 
present in the vegetable to be cooked. Tomatoes do not 
require the addition of any water, and spinach may be 
cooked with the water left on the leaves after washing. 
Green vegetables should boil rapidly during the cooking, 
but for potatoes the boiling should be gentle, that the 
vegetable may not be broken. To prevent them from being 
watery, the boiling should be uninterrupted. All vegetables 
should be well cooked, but they should remain firm, except 
for soups. They should be thoroughly drained, and such 
vegetables as spinach, cabbage, and turnips should be pressed 
lightly to remove part of the water. Peas and beans cannot 
be cooked tender in hard water, hence the salt should be added 
during the last part of the cooking. A very small amount of 
soda may be added to the water in which the beans and 
peas are cooked to soften the water. Vegetables are cooked 
to soften the cellulose, to cause the starch granules to swell 
and burst, to coagulate the protein, and to develop flavor. 



VEGETABLES 33 

Potatoes. Potatoes are native to South America and 
were brought from there to North America. They were 
introduced into Europe by the Spaniards in the sixteenth 
century, into Ireland by Sir John Hawkins in 1565, and into 
England by Sir Walter Raleigh in 1586. 

Potatoes belong botanically to the same family as the 
tobacco and deadly nightshade. They contain a bitter 
juice called solanine, which lies in and near the skin. This 
is drawn out into the water when they are boiled or is given 
off in the steam when they are baked. For this reason 
the custom of using for bread making the water in which 
potatoes have been boiled is not desirable. If potatoes 
have to stand after being baked, they should be pierced with 
a fork to allow the steam to escape. 

As potatoes are deficient both in protein and in fat, they 
are usually eaten with milk, eggs, etc., and with some form 
of fat. The protein of potatoes is largely in the form of 
albumen which, with the mineral matter, is dissolved in the 
moisture or juice. As albumen is soluble in cold water, 
there is an appreciable loss of it when the potatoes are peeled, 
cut in pieces, and soaked in cold water. When potatoes 
are placed in boiling water, the starch granules swell and 
burst and absorb the juice, the albumen coagulates, or is 
absorbed by the starch, and the mineral matter also is 
retained. 

Potatoe's should be kept in a dry, cool place, and any 
sprouts which may appear should be removed. 

Boiled Potatoes 

Wash and peel potatoes, put them into boiling salted water, 
using 1 ts. salt to every quart of water. Cook about thirty minutes 
or until tender. Drain well. Put the kettle, uncovered, on the 
back of the stove and shake it gently to allow the steam to escape 

D 



34 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

and make the potatoes mealy. Cover the kettle with a towel, 
which will keep them hot and absorb the steam. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Mash potatoes in the kettle in which they were boiled, beating 
until light with a wire potato masher, and moistening with hot 
milk. Add 1 or 2 tb. butter, ^ ts. salt, and a speck of pepper to 
every pint of potatoes. When beaten until white, creamy, and 
free from lumps, pile them lightly in a warm vegetable dish. Serve 
very hot. 

Baked Potatoes 

Select smooth potatoes of uniform size. Wash and scrub them 
well. Place in a hot oven and bake until soft, about forty-five 
minutes. Serve at once in an uncovered dish. If they must stand, 
pierce with a fork, or break the skin, to let the steam escape. 

Potatoes are more digestible when baked than when cooked in 
any other way, as the intense heat changes some of the starch to 
dextrin, and all the mineral matter and other constituents are 
retained. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Wash, peel, and slice raw potatoes. Put in layers in a baking 
dish, sprinkling each layer with salt, pepper, flour, and bits of 
butter ; add milk to nearly cover. Cover the dish and bake 1^ h. 
or till the potato is soft. Uncover the baking dish during the last 
half hour of baking to brown the potatoes well. 

Warmed-over Potatoes (Boiled) 
Lyonnaise Potatoes 

1 pt. cold boiled potatoes, cut into 2 tb. minced onions 

quarter inch cubes 2 tb. drippings or lard 

% ts. salt 1 tb. chopped parsley 

ssp. pepper 

Sprinkle the potatoes with the salt and pepper. Fry the onion 



VEGETABLES 35 

till a light brown in the drippings, add the potatoes; stir with a 
fork until they are brown; add the parsley and serve. 1 tb. 
vinegar may be added. 

Stewed Potatoes 

1 pt. cold boiled potatoes, diced 1 or 2 tb. butter 

\ c. milk \ ts. salt 

\ ssp. pepper 1 ts. chopped parsley 

Heat the milk, add the butter and seasoning and the potatoes. 
Simmer gently until the milk is absorbed. Sprinkle with parsley 
and serve. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cut one scant pint potatoes into one-fourth inch dice, sprinkle 
them with \ ts. salt, \ ssp. pepper ; add them to 1 c. white sauce, 
and when well heated, sprinkle with 1 tb. chopped parsley and 
serve. 

Potatoes au Gratin 

Slice 3 c. potatoes, sprinkle with 1 ts. salt and 1 ssp. pepper. 
Make 1 pt. white sauce. Put potatoes and sauce in alternate layers 
in a baking dish, having sauce for the top layer. Cover with but- 
tered crumbs. Bake twenty-five minutes or until brown. Grated 
cheese, chopped green pepper, sliced hard-boiled eggs, or 1 tb. 
minced onion may be added to the layers. 

To butter crumbs. To 1 tb. melted butter, add f c. fine bread 
crumbs. Mix well. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Chop 1 pt. cold boiled potatoes, season highly with salt and 
pepper, moisten them with c. white sauce. Put 1 ts. lard and 
butter mixed in a thick iron frying pan; when hot, put in the 
potatoes and flatten into a cake. Cook slowly, without stirring, 
keeping the pan covered until a brown crust forms, about twenty 
minutes. Fold once and turn on to a hot platter. 



36 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Warmed-over Potatoes (Mashed) 

Shape cold mashed potatoes into small round cakes about one- 
half inch thick. Brush with milk or egg beaten with a little milk, 
and bake in a hot oven until brown. Or, roll the cakes in flour 
and sauter in hot fat, browning both sides. 

Potato Puff 

To 1 pt. mashed potatoes, add c. milk, 2 tb. butter, more salt 
and pepper if needed, 1 tb. chopped parsley, | ts. onion juice, 
cayenne, or paprika to taste, and 1 beaten egg. Pile lightly in a 
baking dish and bake in a hot oven until brown, about twenty 
minutes. Serve in the dish in which it is baked. 

To chop parsley. Wash parsley, remove the leaves, and dry in 
a towel or absorbent paper. Place on a board, gather the leaves 
closely between thumb and finger, and cut through. If the point 
of the knife is held firmly on the board, a circular and also a chop- 
ping motion can be given to it at the same time. 

To mince onions. Remove the brown outer covering of the 
onion about halfway down; score the top of the onion in gashes 
about one-eighth of an inch apart; score again at a right angle, 
then slice across the onion. 

EXPERIMENT 26. Test turnip with iodine for starch. Is the 
carbohydrate present in the form of starch ? 

Turnips. Turnips are at their best in the fall and early 
winter; toward spring they become tough and fibrous and 
are only good for flavoring and for stews. The flat purple- 
topped turnip, the rutabaga, a large yellow turnip, and the 
large French turnip are the best varieties. Turnips should 
not be overcooked, or they will become dark in color and 
strong in flavor. The summer turnip, when sliced, can 
be cooked in thirty minutes, the winter turnip in from 
forty-five to sixty minutes. 



VEGETABLES 37 

To prepare turnips. Wash and pare the turnips, and if they are 
to be boiled and mashed, slice them. 

To boil and mash turnips. Prepare as above and cook in boil- 
ing salted water until tender. Drain well. Mash with a wooden 
masher and season with salt, pepper, and butter. Serve at once. 

Creamed Turnips 

After washing and peeling, cut the turnips into one-fourth inch 
dice; cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain well. To 
every pint of turnips, add one cup of white sauce. Reheat and 
serve. 

Turnip Cups with Creamed Pea Filling 

Select small, round turnips. Wash, pare, and cut a slice from 
the large end, so they will stand. Scoop out the inside, forming 
.cups with walls about one-fourth inch thick. Cook in boiling 
salted water until tender, about thirty minutes. Drain well and 
fill each cup with peas, heated in a seasoned white sauce. Sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and serve hot. 

EXPERIMENT 27. Test carrot with iodine for starch. Is the 
carbohydrate present in the form of starch ? 

Carrots. When carrots are boiled in water, large amounts 
of their carbohydrate, in the form of sugar, and of their 
protein, in the form of albumen, are lost in the water. They 
are of value as a food because of their flavor and because of 
their cellulose, which aids in the process of digestion. 

To prepare carrots. Carrots need not be peeled ; after being 
well scrubbed they should be scraped with a knife ; young car- 
rots may not need even to be scraped. 

Carrots in Bechamel Sauce 

Prepare carrots and cut in one-fourth inch dice, or in thin strips 
about the size of a match and one inch long. Cook in boiling salted 



38 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

water until tender; drain, and reheat in one-half their bulk of 
Bechamel Sauce. 

Bechamel Sauce 

Melt 2 tb. butter, add 2 tb. flour ; stir in 1 c. milk, as in white 
sauce ; add f ts. salt, ^ ssp. pepper. When it has thickened, add 
the beaten yolks of 1 or 2 eggs. 

To add yolk of egg to a hot liquid. Beat the yolks slightly, add 
some of the hot liquid to them until thin enough to pour ; stir 
into the remainder of the hot liquid and cook until the egg thickens 
the mixture slightly, but do not let the mixture boil, or the sauce 
will separate. 

Tomatoes. The tomato is probably a native of Mexico 
or Peru. There are several varieties, some having red and 
others having yellow fruit. While the tomato is largely water 
and hence has a low nutritive value, it forms one of our 
most useful vegetables. When overcooked, the tomato be- 
comes dark in color and the flavor is impaired. 

To prepare tomatoes. Pour boiling water over them and remove 
the skins. If they are to be served raw, do not pour the hot water 
on them, but rub the skin with the back of a knife, when it will 
come off easily. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Peel tomatoes, slice, and cook until they are tender, which will 
be about twenty minutes. About five minutes before the cooking 
is finished, season, using 1 ts. salt, 1 ts. sugar, 1 tb. butter, and | 
ssp. pepper for every quart tomatoes. Small pieces of bread may 
be added if desired. 

Creamed Tomatoes 

Peel and slice two tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
sauter in 2 tb. hot butter ; when soft, put the slices on a serving 
dish and keep warm. Put 1 c. milk in the pan in which the toma- 



VEGETABLES 39 

toes were cooked, thicken with 2 tb. flour according to Method 1 
for thickening. Season and pour over the tomatoes. Serve hot. 
1 pt. milk and 4 tb. flour may be used if more sauce is desired. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Wipe and remove slices from the stem ends of six medium-sized 
tomatoes. Remove seeds and pulp, salt the insides of the tomatoes 
well, invert them, and let stand while the other ingredients are being 
prepared. Cook 1 tb. minced onion and 3 tb. chopped bacon five 
minutes, add 1^ c. bread crumbs, | c. chopped meat, and the tomato 
pulp and cook five minutes. Season with salt and pepper. One 
egg slightly beaten may be added. Fill the tomatoes with the 
mixture, sprinkle with buttered crumbs (and a little sugar, if de- 
sired), and bake until brown, about twenty minutes. The chopped 
meat may be omitted. 

Stuffed Green Peppers 

Remove the stem end from the peppers and take out all the 
seeds and partitions. Remove small slices from the blossom ends 
so that they will stand. Cover peppers with boiling water, allow 
to stand five minutes and drain. Use the same stuffing as for 
tomatoes. Bake one-half hour in moderate oven, basting with a 
little hot water or stock. Boiled rice may be used in place of 
bread crumbs. 

EXPERIMENT 28. Test onion with iodine for starch; with 
Fehling solution for sugar. In what form is the carbohydrate 
found in onions ? 

Onions. The onion is a native of the Himalaya Moun- 
tains. It contains an essential, volatile oil which gives it 
the characteristic odor and flavor; when eaten, this oil is 
absorbed by the blood and brought to the lungs, so the odor 
will remain for some time on the breath. The onion is con- 
sidered a wholesome, if not a highly nutritious vegetable and 



40 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

is of value because of its stimulating action upon the diges- 
tive tract. 

Boiled Onions 

Peel the onions under cold water. Put them into a sauce pan 
of boiling water, boil five minutes, drain ; cover again with boiling 
water, cook ten minutes, drain ; re-cover with boiling water, add 

1 ts. salt to every quart water and cook until tender, about forty- 
five minutes. Drain, add milk in desired amount, and thicken with 

2 tb. butter and 2 tb. flour (Method 2 for thickening) for every 
cup milk. Season and serve. 

Boiled Cabbage 

Remove outer leaves, cut cabbage in quarters and soak one-half 
hour in cold water with 1 tb. salt. Put into a large kettle nearly 
filled with rapidly boiling water, add j ts. soda. Cook twenty 
minutes uncovered ; drain, cover again with boiling water, add 1 ts. 
salt to every quart water. Cook twenty minutes or until tender, 
but do not overcook. Drain and serve as desired. A white sauce 
may be poured over it, or salt, pepper, and butter may be added. 

Escalloped Cabbage 

Put alternate layers of chopped boiled cabbage, white sauce, 
and grated cheese in a baking dish. Cover with buttered crumbs 
and bake twenty minutes, or until brown. 

Beans. Beans and peas being richer in protein than any 
other vegetable food are often used as substitutes for meat ; 
being deficient in fat, salt pork or some other fat may be 
added in the cooking. Dried beans are more easily digested 
if the skin is removed. Beans and peas, as before stated, 
do not cook tender in hard water and a little soda added to 
the water in which they are first boiled will help soften 
them. 



VEGETABLES 41 

Baked Beans 

Soak 1 qt. pea beans over night. Drain, cover with fresh water, 
add 1 ssp. soda, and boil about twenty minutes. Drain. Boil 
Ib. salt pork twenty minutes. In the bottom of a bean pot put 
1 whole onion, the salt pork, then the beans. Mix ^ ts. mustard, 
3 ts. salt in \ c. molasses and pour over the beans. Cover beans 
with the wate^Lin which the pork has boiled. Cover the crock 
closely and bake in a very slow oven from four to six hours. Add 
water as needed, keeping them nearly covered with water until 
the last hour of baking. 

Succotash 

1 pt. fresh lima beans 2 tb. butter or 2 oz. salt pork 

1 pt. corn cut from cob salt and pepper 

1 c. milk 

Cook beans and pork in boiling water thirty minutes, add \ ts. 
soda, boil one minute, and drain. 

Remove corn from cob by scoring down the center of each row 
of kernels, pressing out pulp with the back of the knife, leaving 
the skins on the cob. Add the corn to the beans, and the milk 
(and butter if used), and cook fifteen minutes ; add salt and pepper 
and cook five minutes longer. Serve. 

Succotash may also be made from dried corn and beans, soaked 
over night and cooked several hours with a piece of salt pork. 

Corn Fritters 

1 pint corn, grated or removed from cob as above, or if canned, 
chopped fine. Canned Kornlet is ready to use for fritters. Add 
to the corn 6 tb. flour, 1 ts. salt, \ ssp. pepper, beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 
If canned corn is used, it may be necessary to add 2 tb. milk. Fold 
in beaten whites of 2 eggs. Sauter by dropping by tablespoonful 
into hot lard, browning on both sides. Serve on a warm platter, 
but do not pile them one on another. One-half ts. baking powder 
may be substituted for 1 egg. 

Macaroni. Macaroni is served as a vegetable. It is 



42 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

made from a wheat flour rich in gluten. When cooked with 
cheese and milk, it forms a highly nutritious food. It is the 
staple food of the Italians. As a preliminary to any of the 
many methods of preparation, macaroni should be cooked 
until tender in boiling salted water, which will require about 
thirty minutes. 

Baked Macaroni and Cheese 

Put in a baking dish alternate layers of boiled macaroni, white 
sauce, and grated cheese. Season the sauce with salt, cayenne, and 
mustard. Put buttered crumbs over the top and bake about thirty 
minutes, or till well browned. 

Macaroni and Tomato Sauce 

Reheat boiled macaroni in tomato sauce. Variety can be se- 
cured by sprinkling the macaroni with grated cheese; or all may 
be put into a baking dish, covered with buttered crumbs, and baked 
till brown. 

Tomato Sauce 

1 pt. stewed tomatoes i bay leaf 

1 slice onion 1 sprig parsley 

Cook ten minutes; strain. Make a sauce, using 2 tb. butter, 

2 tb. flour, and the strained tomato. Season with \ ts. salt and \ 

ssp. pepper. 



CHAPTER V 
SUGAR AND FRUITS 

PLANTS store their carbohydrates in part in the form of 
sugar. Cane sugar, or sucrose (C^H^On), was formerly 
obtained almost entirely from the sugar cane, but now the 
largest amount of sugar on the market comes from the sugar 
beet. Chemically, cane sugar and beet sugar have the same 
properties and cannot be distinguished. In the refining of 
sugar the juices of the cane or beet are extracted by crush- 
ing and pressure, and then go through a process of purifica- 
tion ; the resulting liquid is boiled down to a state of crystal- 
lization. As all the sugar will not crystallize, this liquid is 
drained off and constitutes molasses. When heated, cane 
sugar melts and forms barley sugar, and at a still higher 
temperature, caramel is formed ; this latter has a brown 
color and distinctive flavor and is used for coloring and 
flavoring in cookery. Sugar loses part of its sweetness by 
this process. 

Maple sugar (CaHsgOu) is obtained by boiling down the 
sap of the maple tree. 

Lactose or milk sugar (C^H^On) is present in the milk of 
all mammals. It is the form of carbohydrate that is best 
for a young child until it is a year old. Lactose is obtained 
commercially from the whey left as a residue in cheese 
making. It is not as sweet as cane sugar. When milk is 
modified for infant feeding, lactose is the form of sugar 
which should be added. 

Glucose or grape sugar (C 6 Hi 2 6 ) is widely distributed in 

43 



44 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

nature and is found in fruits and plant juices, and in small 
amount in the blood of animals. It is not as sweet as cane 
sugar and does not crystallize as readily. It is usually sold 
in the form of a clear, heavy syrup. 

Glucose is obtained commercially by treating starch with 
an acid, which causes the following change to take place : 

C 6 H 10 5 + H 2 = C 6 H 12 6 

Cane sugar is inverted, or changed to glucose, when boiled 
with an acid. Acid fruits which are cooked for some time 
with sugar are, therefore, not as sweet as when the same 
amount of sugar is added after cooking. Glucose will fer- 
ment with the action of yeast, but cane sugar must first' be 
changed to glucose by the enzyme of yeast before fermenta- 
tion will take place. 

NOTE. Show samples of cane sugar, beet sugar, milk sugar, 
glucose. 

EXPERIMENT 29. Put | c. sugar in an omelet pan and stir 
over a moderate fire until it melts. Remove a portion of the syrup, 
which is barley sugar. Continue the heating until the mixture 
browns slightly. Pour all but a small amount of this on an un- 
greased tin to cool. This is caramel. Continue heating a small 
amount of the sugar until it burns or carbonizes. 

EXPERIMENT 30. Pour sulphuric acid (H 2 S0 4 ) on a small 
amount of dry sugar. The acid will remove the water (H 2 0). 
What other element is present in sugar ? Repeat experiment with 
glucose. 

Fehling Solution. Five cubic centimeters of copper sulphate 
solution, 5 cubic centimeters of alkaline Rochelle salts, 20 cubic cen- 
timeters of water. 

Boil all together for two minutes. 

Identification Test for Glucose. Fehling solution will change 
from a blue color to a copper brown when boiled with glu- 
cose; it will not so change when boiled with sucrose or cane 
sugar. 



SUGAR AND FRUITS 45 

EXPERIMENT 31. Mix a little glucose and water. Add a small 
amount of Fehling solution and boil. 

EXPERIMENT 32. Mix a little cane sugar and water. Add a 
small amount of Fehling solution and boil. There will be no change 
of color if the sugar is pure and the Fehling solution has been 
freshly mixed. 

EXPERIMENT 33. Test the juices of various fruits or small 
pieces of vegetables boiled in water with Fehling solution. In 
what form of sugar do many of the plants store part of their car- 
bohydrates ? 

Candy Making. See experiments with boiling sugar under 
" Boiling/' page 15. 

Fondant 

Mix 2 c. sugar and f c. water. Put in a stewpan and heat. 
As it begins to boil, wipe down the sides of the kettle with a wet 
cloth. Sprinkle on \ ts. cream of tartar and let it boil in, but do 
not stir the syrup. Cover the kettle for a minute or two or until 
the steam comes out around the cover. Remove cover and cook 
syrup to 238 F. or until it forms a soft ball when tested in ice water. 
Pour syrup on a slightly dampened platter and let stand without 
disturbing until all the heat has left it. Work back and forth 
with a wooden paddle or knife until the mixture creams. Knead 
into a smooth ball. Put into a closely covered fruit jar until 
ready to use. The quality of the fondant improves upon stand- 
ing, but it must be kept in a cool, dry place and be closely 
covered. 

To shape. Add desired flavoring, nuts, etc., to fondant and 
knead until mixed. Shape as desired, putting candies as formed 
on white table oilcloth or on paraffine paper. 

To coat with chocolate. Melt unsweetened chocolate over hot 
water, adding a few shavings of paraffine ; remove from water and 
let cool a little. Dip fondant balls into it, using a fork ; drain off 
as much chocolate as possible and put candies on white oilcloth 
or marble slab. Let stand until firm. 



46 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Cream Mints 

Melt fondant over hot water, stirring constantly; flavor with 
peppermint or wintergreen to taste, and add desired coloring. Drop 
from the tip of a spoon on to oilcloth or paraffine paper. If the 
mixture becomes too thick, add a few drops of boiling water. 

NOTE. Weigh candies and compute their cost. 



FRUITS 

COMPOSITION OF FRUITS (OLSEN) 





WATER 


SUGAR 


PROTEIN 


ACID 


ASH 


Apples 


854 


11 27 


064 


7 


027 , 


Bananas 


73 8 


21 7 


1 17 


03 


05 


Blackberries 


863 


109 


1 3 


077 


05 


Cranberries 


88.9 


9.9 


0.4 


2.34 


02 


Grapes 


80.12 


16.5 


1.26 


0.59 


0.5 


Huckleberries .... 
Lemons 
Oranges 
Peaches 


81.9 

88.0 
86.0 
880 


16.5 
0.37 
5.65 
10 8 


0.6 

07 


5.39 
1.35 
56 


0.3 

7 


Pineapples 
Plums 


85.19 

784 


12.22 
13 25 


0.48 
04 


0.77 
1.0 


0.42 
052 


Strawberries 


90.0 


7.0 


0.9 


1.1 


0.6 


Raspberries .... 


84.0 


12.6 


1.7 


1.48 


0.6 



Fruits are composed largely of water ; their solids consist 
of carbohydrates, a small amount of protein, and some 
mineral matter. Although their food value is low, fruits form 
a very valuable addition to the diet, for they contain mineral 
matter in an organic form in which it can be readily absorbed 
by the system. Their organic acids have medicinal proper- 
ties and can also be oxidized in the human system to provide 
heat and other forms of energy. Fruits differ from vege- 
tables in that their carbohydrates are largely in the form of 
sugar, hence they can be eaten without cooking; cooking, 



SUGAR AND FRUITS 47 

however, softens the cellulose, thus making the fruit more 
digestible. 

Care and Preparation of Fruits. The decay of fruits is 
due to the action of bacteria, their wilting to the loss of 
water; they should, therefore, be kept in a cool, dry place. 
Large fruits, as pears and peaches, should be wrapped sepa- 
rately in paper, that they may not be bruised. Fruits may 
be kept in good condition for some months by being placed 
in cold storage. As there is danger of harmful bacteria 
clinging to fruits, especially to those that have been trans- 
ported long distances or that have been exposed to the 
dust of the streets, all fruit that is to be eaten raw should 
be first carefully washed. 

Dried fruits regain their original bulk and, in part, their 
flavor, when soaked in water, and they form a relatively 
cheap source of fruit supply during the winter months. Pre- 
served fruits, jams, and jellies also form a valuable addition 
to the winter diet. 

Pectin. Another constituent of fruits is pectin, which 
causes the juices to form a jelly when boiled with sugar. 
Pectin is a carbohydrate and is at its best when fruit is just 
ripe, or a little before it ripens. If fruit is overripe, or if 
the juice ferments, or if it is boiled too long with the sugar 
in making jelly, the pectin undergoes a chemical change and 
loses its power of jellying. Pectin will produce jelly only 
in the presence of a definite amount of organic acid, one- 
half per cent of acid being about the amount required to 
make a good jelly; hence, fruits which contain but little 
acid must be made into jelly before they are ripe, or be 
cooked with acid fruits, or some lemon juice or cream of 
tartar be added to them. 

Identification Test for Pectin. Mash the fruit, warm, and strain 
through a cheesecloth. Put a small amount of juice in a test tube 



48 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

and add an equal volume of alcohol ; shake well and let stand. The 
pectin will settle out in a gelatinous precipitate. 

EXPERIMENT 34. Test various fruits, noting the amount and 
quality of the precipitate. 

Apples. The apple is a native of Asia, the crab apple 
being the original or wild apple. The Romans used apples 
centuries ago. The apple is one of our most wholesome 
fruits, eaten either raw or cooked. Some of the best known 
varieties are named here. 

Cooking apples: Greening, Northern Spy, Baldwin, Maiden 
Blush. 

Eating apples: Snow, Bellflower, Rambo, etc. 

Apple Sauce 

Pare and slice 6 tart apples into a granite stewpan; add 1 c. 
water. Cover kettle and cook until apples are soft, add sugar 
and nutmeg to taste. Mash, or put through a colander as desired. 
% ts. butter may be added for flavor. 

Dried Apple Sauce 

Pick over and wash the dried apples and soak in cold water over 
night. Cook until soft in the water in which they were soaked. 
Mash, sweeten to taste, and flavor with lemon juice. 

Baked Apples, No. i 

Select apples of uniform size ; wash and core. Put into baking 
dish, cover bottom of dish with water. Bake for about thirty 
minutes, basting occasionally. They may be served with breakfast 
foods. 

Baked Apples, No. 2 

Core and pare apples; put in a baking dish, fill the centers of 
the apples with sugar, add a small piece of butter ; cover the bottom 



SUGAR AND FRUITS 49 

of the pan with water. Bake until tender, basting often. After 
taking from oven, sprinkle lightly with cinnamon and granulated 
sugar, or put red jelly in the centers. 

Apple Compdte 

Pare and quarter four apples. Make a syrup with 1^ c. sugar 
and 1 c. water. Boil five minutes. Cook the apples in the syrup 
until tender, but do not let the pieces break. Remove the apples 
and put in a mold. Soak \ box gelatine in ^ c. cold water, add to 
the hot syrup, and stir till dissolved. Add the juice and grated rind 
of \ lemon, pour mixture over the apples, and let stand until firm. 
Remove from mold and serve with cream sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla. 

Cranberries. Cranberries are the fruit of a sraall shrub 
which grows in marshy ground. They ripen in October and 
are valuable because of their excellent keeping qualities. 
Some of the best varieties are grown on Cape Cod and in 
New Jersey. Cranberry bogs are also found in Michigan 
and other parts of the country. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Wash and look over 1 pt. cranberries. Put them in a stewpan 
with 1 c. sugar and f c. water; cover the pan and let th^m boil 
ten minutes without stirring ; remove the scum and let them cool. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Wash and look over 1 qt. cranberries. Cook with 2 c. water 
twenty minutes; strain; add 2 c. sugar and boil five-^nutes or 
until it jellies. Pour into a mold and let stand until it is firm. 



CHAPTER VI 
FOOD PRESERVATION 

Classification of Plants. 1. Green plants contain chloro- 
phyll grains in their leaves, which give them the power of 
converting the carbon dioxide of the air and water from the 
ground into carbohydrates. They feed upon inorganic sub- 
stances in the soil in which they grow. 

2. Colorless plants or fungi do not contain chlorophyll 
grains. They feed upon organic substances in presence of 
warmth and moisture. 

Classification of Fungi. 1. Higher fungi include mush- 
rooms, toadstools, wood fungi, etc. 

2. Molds consist of a dense mass of fibers. They produce 
spores or reproductive bodies which sometimes float in the 
air, settle upon organic substances and, if kept warm and 
moist and out of the sunshine, will grow and produce mold 
over the surface of the substance upon which they have 
settled. 

3. Yeasts are visible only under the microscope. They are 
single-celled organisms, oval in shape. They reproduce by 
budding, producing a change in certain organic substances 
called alcoholic fermentation, by which alcohol and carbon 
dioxide are formed. 

4. Bacteria are visible only under the microscope. They 
are much smaller than yeast plants. They are single-celled 
organisms, round, rod-shape, or spiral. They reproduce by 
fission, that is, by dividing in the middle, producing two 

50 



FOOD PRESERVATION 51 

individuals, or by spore formation. Bacteria are very 
abundant, being found everywhere. Some are disease- 
producing; many are non-disease-producing. 

Most organic foods are injured or in time destroyed by the 
presence in them and growth of molds, yeast, and bacteria. 
To preserve food the growth of these organisms must be pre- 
vented. Fresh air and sunshine are nature's disinfectants 
and they check the growth of germs or even destroy them ; 
hence the necessity of fresh air and sunshine in all parts of a 
house. 

Molds, yeast, and bacteria are destroyed by heat and by 
certain chemicals. Their growth is checked by low tem- 
perature, by the removal of water, by the aromatic oils of 
spices, by an excess of sugar or salt, by the presence of 
smoke, and by certain acids. While such chemicals as for- 
maldehyde, salicylic acid, benzoate of soda, will preserve 
foods indefinitely by destroying or checking the growth of 
germs, their presence even in very small amounts is harmful 
to the body, hence their use as food preservatives should be 
forbidden by the Pure Food Laws. 



Harmless Methods of Food Preservation 

1. Canning destruction of germs by heat and the sub- 
sequent exclusion of germs. 

2. Preserving destruction of germs by heat and the 
preventing of their growth by thick sugar syrup. 

3. Pickling prevention of growth of germs by acid and 
spices. 

4. Smoking prevention of growth of germs by smoke. 

5. Salting prevention of growth of germs by presence of 
salt. 



52 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

6. Cold Storage prevention of growth of germs by tem- 
perature of 37 F. 

7. Drying prevention of growth of germs by removing 
water. 

Harmful Methods of Food Preservation 

Use of formaldehyde, salicylic acid, borax, boric acid, ben- 
zoate of soda, " canning compounds," and alcohol. 

Sterilization and Pasteurization. Sterilization is the com- 
plete destruction of bacteria. When a thing is free from 
bacteria and other forms of life, it is sterile, no matter how 
the condition is brought about. 

The purpose of pasteurization is to sterilize sufficiently to 
make a food safe without injuring its flavor or digestibility. 
Few bacteria can live in a temperature above 157 F. Some 
bacteria have the power of reproducing by the forming of 
spores which will resist such heat as may destroy the bacteria 
themselves. Dry heat destroys bacteria with certainty only 
at a temperature of 284 F. 

Pasteurization is the raising of a substance to a tempera- 
ture of from 155 F. to 170 F. and the maintaining of this 
temperature for twenty minutes, when the substance should 
be cooled rapidly ; by this process most of the harmful germs 
are supposed to be destroyed. 

Canning and Preserving. The purpose of canning is to 
destroy by heat germs already present in the food and to 
exclude the entrance of other germs. The purpose of pre- 
serving is to destroy by heat germs already present and to 
protect the food by means of a thick sugar syrup. 

The factors most essential in the processes of canning and 
preserving are (1) the complete sterilization of the food to be 



FOOD PRESERVATION 53 

preserved, (2) the complete sterilization of the cans or jars 
into which the food is to be placed, (3) the complete sealing 
of the jars to prevent the entrance of germs. Vegetables 
contain more spore-forming bacteria than do fruits, hence 
are more difficult to preserve. 

Methods of Fruit Preserving: 

1. Prepare fruit, place in jars, fill the jars with syrup, 
put on the cover lightly. Set the jars in a steamer and 
cook till the fruit looks clear and is tender. Fill the jars 
to overflowing with the contents of one of the jars and seal 
securely. 

2. Make a syrup with desired amount of sugar and 
water, according to the fruit. Cook the fruit in the syrup 
until tender; put into sterilized jars, filling the jars to over- 
flowing with the syrup. Seal securely. 

Juicy fruits require little or no water. Strawberries are 
better when no water is added, or when they are cooked in a 
very heavy syrup. Large hard fruits, such as pears, quinces, 
etc., require longer cooking ; before being placed in the thick 
syrup, they should be cooked in a thin syrup or steamed until 
nearly tender. 

To Sterilize Jars : 

Method 1. Place the jars or glasses in a kettle of cold 
water, having a folded cloth or layers of paper in the bottom 
of the kettle to prevent the jars from coming in direct con- 
tact with the bottom of the kettle. Heat the water slowly 
to the boiling point. Remove the jars and fill immediately 
with fruit and syrup. 

Method 2. Set the jars in a steamer and steam about 
fifteen minutes. A large steamer may be improvised by 
placing a rack in the bottom of a wash boiler and setting the 



54 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



jars on the rack. Do not wipe the inside of the jars with a 
towel as germs may be introduced into the jars by this 
means. Dip rubber rings into boiling water. 



COST OF PRESERVED FRUITS, ETC. 



COST OP 
FRUIT USED 


COST OF 
SUGAR USED 


TOTAL 
COST 


No. CANS 

FILLED 


COST PER 
CAN 


MARKET PRICE 
OF SIMILAR CAN 















Syrup for Canning and Preserving 

One-third to 1 pound of sugar for every pound of fruit. 
For small fruits add 1 to 1 cups water for every pound of sugar. 
For large fruits add 2 to 2^ cups water for every pound of sugar. 
Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes before adding 
the fruit. 



Canned Tomatoes 

Cover tomatoes with boiling water, remove skins and hard 
stem end; slice and cook twenty minutes or until soft. Skim 
during the cooking. Fill sterilized glass jars to overflowing and 
seal securely. 

Canned Tomatoes for Soup 

Wash tomatoes, remove stem ends, but do not peel; slice and 
cook until soft. Rub through a wire strainer to remove seeds and 
skin. Boil the juice and pulp again. Fill sterilized jars and seal 
securely. 



FOOD PRESERVATION 55 

Preserved Peaches 

The skins may be removed more easily from ripe peaches if boil- 
ing water is poured over them, allowing them to stand a few minutes 
and then placing them in cold water. Make a syrup as directed 
and either cook the peaches in it, a few at a time, or place peaches 
in jars and pour the syrup over them, finishing process according to 
directions given. The flavor of the peaches will be improved if a 
few of the peach stones are added to the syrup. 

Pears, plums, etc., may be preserved in the same way. Peel 
the pears with a silver knife. Do not remove the skins from plums, 
but prick them with a large needle or fork to prevent skins from 
bursting. 

Grape Juice (to be used as a beverage) 

8 Ib. perfect Concord grapes, wash and stem. Add 1 qt. 
water and boil twenty minutes. Strain through a double cheese- 
cloth. To every quart of juice add | c. sugar. Boil ten minutes, 
skim; pour into sterilized jars or bottles, and seal securely. 

Jelly. Only those fruit juices which contain at least 
one-half per cent of acid and one per cent of pectin will form 
a jelly when cooked with sugar. Almost all fruits contain 
the requisite amount of pectin, but sweet fruits, such as 
peaches, pears, blackberries, contain too little acid ; for this 
reason, acid must be added in order to make them jelly ; an 
acid fruit, lemon juice, or tartaric acid may be used for this 
purpose. As before stated, the pectin is in the best condi- 
tion for jelly making when the fruits are underripe or just 
ripe. 

Fruits should not be overripe ; the more perfect the fruit, 
the clearer will be the jelly. Berries, currants, and grapes 
require no water. Apples and quinces must be cooked in 
water before straining. 



56 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

General Directions for Jelly Making. Use a porcelain- 
lined or granite kettle. Drain the fruit juice through a jelly 
bag made of cotton flannel or double thickness of cheese- 
cloth. Do not squeeze the bag, but let the juice drip for 
several hours or over night. Measure equal quantities of 
juice and sugar. Boil the juice ten to twenty minutes ; add 
the heated sugar and boil five minutes or until it forms a 
jelly. Pour into sterilized glasses; let stand twenty-four 
hours and cover with melted paraffine. Put tin covers on 
the glasses or cover them with wrapping paper to keep out 
the dust. 

Crab Apple Jelly 

Wash apples, cut in pieces, but do not pare nor remove the seeds. 
Cover with cold water. Boil until soft. Strain as directed, boil 
juice twenty minutes, add an equal volume of heated sugar, boil 
five minutes or until it jellies. Finish as in directions for jelly 
making. 

Grape Jelly 

Select grapes that are not fully ripe, wash, and remove from 
stems. Put into a kettle, mash well, and cook about thirty minutes. 
Strain. Add f c. hot sugar to every c. juice, and proceed .as in 
directions for jelly making. 

MARMALADE, ETC. 
Plum Conserve 

4 qt. plums 3 oranges and 1 lemon chopped 

1 Ib. sugar 1 Ib. raisins 

Ib. nuts coarsely chopped 

Remove stones from the plums, add the other ingredients with 
the exception of the nuts. Cook until it becomes thick ; add the 
nuts and cook a few minutes longer. Put in glasses and seal as 
directed. 



FOOD PRESERVATION 57 

Pear Ginger 

8 Ib. pears 4 Ib. sugar 

25 cent jar preserved ginger cut fine 
Peel the pears and cut them fine; add a little water and cook 

until they soften; add the sugar and the ginger with the juice. 

Cook until thick like a marmalade. Put in glasses and seal as 

directed. 

Grape Jam 

Wash grapes, remove from stems; squeeze the pulp into a 
stewpan. Cook pulp and rub through a strainer to remove seeds. 
Add the grape skins to pulp and Ib. sugar to every pound of 
fruit. Cook slowly until it thickens. Put in glasses and seal as 
directed. 

Spiced Grapes 

Wash grapes and remove seeds as above. To every 7 Ib. 
grapes (pulp and skins) add 3 Ib. sugar, 1 pt. vinegar, ground 
spices to taste. Boil until the skins are tender and the mixture 
thickens. Put in glasses, sealing as directed. 

Peach Marmalade 

Peel peaches and slice fine. Add 1 pt. sugar to every quart of 
peaches. Let stand three or four hours ; cook quickly twenty-five 
minutes. Put in glasses and seal as directed. 

PICKLES 
Sweet Pickles 

7 Ib. fruit 3 c. vinegar 

3 Ib. brown sugar f c. spice (whole cinnamon, cassia 

buds, cloves, and allspice) 

Tie spices in a cheesecloth bag, boil with the sugar and vinegar 
ten minutes. Add the fruit and cook until fruit is tender. Put in 
jars, fill with the syrup, and seal. 



58 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Small Cucumber Pickles 

Scrub 2 qt. small cucumbers. Put in a bowl with \ c. salt; 
cover with boiling water, and let stand over night. Drain. Put 
in a kettle with \ pt. small onions, \ sweet green pepper with seeds 
removed, 1 c. sugar, and \ c. whole spices tied in a bag ; cover with 
vinegar, let come to boiling point, but do not boil. Seal while hot. 

Chili Sauce 

1 doz. ripe tomatoes peeled and f c. brown sugar 

cut up 2 tb. salt 

4 good-sized onions chopped fine 1 pt. cider vinegar 

3 cucumbers chopped fine 1 tb. mixed ground spices 

2 green peppers chopped fine 

Boil all together slowly for two hours. Put into jars and seal 
while hot. 



CHAPTER VII 
SOUPS 

THERE are in general two types of soup, those made 
with meat or fish stocks and those made with milk or cream ; 
some soups, however, contain both kinds of liquid. 

CREAM SOUPS 

Cream soups are prepared like a thin white sauce, to 
which the vegetable, etc., is added after being mashed 
and strained. Soups are thickened both to improve the con- 
sistency and to keep the vegetable from separating from the 
liquid. 

To bind or thicken soups. Melt the required butter, add the 
flour, and cook until bubbling ceases. Let this mixture cool, add 
some of the hot soup to make it thin enough to pour, then stir 
this into the remainder of the hot soup and cook until it thickens 
and is smooth. 

Cream Tomato Soup or Mock Bisque 

Scald 1 qt. milk in double boiler. Bind with 4 tb. butter, 6 tb. 
flour. Cook 10 minutes. Add 2 ts. salt, ts. pepper. Cook 1 pt. 
tomatoes until soft. Strain. Reheat and add | ts. soda. Add to 
thickened milk and serve immediately. 

NOTE FOR STUDENTS. Why is soda added to the tomato ? 
Why do you not cook the white sauce and tomato together? 

59 



60 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cream of Celery Soup 

3 c. chopped celery 
1 slice onion 

Cook together in 1 pt. water three quarters to one hour. Rub 
through a puree strainer. Add water, as it cooks away, to make 
one pint. Add 3 c. milk. Bind with 4 tb. butter, 5 tb. flour. 
Cook 10 minutes. Season with If ts. salt, | ts. pepper. 

Add ts. beef extract, or cook the celery in water in which 
chicken or veal has been cooked. 

Cream of Potato Soup 

3 small potatoes, boil and mash. Cook the potatoes until a 
little overdone and the soup will not be grainy. Scald 1 qt. milk 
with 2 slices of onion ; add to the mashed potatoes and strain into 
the upper part double boiler. Bind with 3 tb. butter, 2 tb. flour. 
Cook 10 minutes. Add If ts. salt, ts. celery salt, ts. pepper, 
few grains cayenne, 1 ts. chopped parsley. 

NOTE TO STUDENT. Why is the amount of flour less than that 
used in other cream soups ? 

Clear Tomato Soup 

1 qt. tomatoes bay leaf 

1 pt. stock or water 4 peppercorns 

1 small onion 2 cloves 

Sprig of parsley 

Cook together ten minutes or till tomatoes are soft. Strain. 
Bind with 

3 tb. butter Add 2 ts. salt 

3 tb. cornstarch Cook ten minutes 



SOUPS 61 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Trim roots and wilted leaves from 2 qt. spinach. Wash spinach 
well and cook thirty minutes in 2 c. water with 2 slices onion. 
Rub through puree sieve. Add 3 c. milk. Bind with 4 tb. 
butter and 5 tb. flour. Season with 1 ts. salt and a speck of cay- 
enne pepper. 

Baked Bean Soup 

2 c. baked beans 2 c. water 

2 slices onion 2 c. tomatoes 

Cook all ten minutes, press through a strainer. Bind with 2 tb. 
butter, 3 tb. flour. Season with salt, pepper, celery salt, and paprika. 

All cream soups are improved if a little whipped cream is 
added just before tjjey are served, being sure that soup is 
very hot. 

SOUPS WITH STOCK 

Stock is the liquid extract of meat and bone. 
Proteins present in meat : 

1. Albumen. Soluble in fresh and slightly salted cold 
water. Coagulates with heat. Builds body tissues. 

2. Globulin. Soluble in slightly salted cold water. 
Coagulates with heat. Builds body tissues. 

3. Extractives. Give flavor to the meat. Soluble in hot 
and cold water. Do not coagulate with heat. Do not build 
body tissues. 

4. Collagen of connective tissues. Forms gelatin when 
boiled with water. Jellies when cold. Does not build body 
tissues, but is a " protein sparer." 

EXPERIMENT 35. a. Cut meat in small pieces and soak in 
cold, slightly salted water. What color does the water become? 



62 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

What has been withdrawn from the meat into the water? What 
effect has cold water upon meat ? How should meat be washed ? 

6. Remove meat from water and heat the water. Note tem- 
perature at which flakes form. Boil. What is the scum which 
forms? Why has it formed? What is the cooking temperature 
for soups? Should the scum which forms in the early stages of 
soup making be removed in making (a) a highly nutritious soup, 
(6) a clear soup ? Are clear soups nutritious ? Why ? 

EXPERIMENT 36. Pour boiling water on meat. Let stand a 
few minutes. Cut meat. What effect did the boiling water have 
upon the surface of the meat? What is the color of the water? 
Does boiling water draw out the juices of meat ? 

EXPERIMENT 37. Hold a piece of meat directly over a hot 
fire, as in broiling. Turn often. Place meat on a dish. Cut it. 
What effect did high temperature of fire have upon the meat ? Com- 
pare the flavor and color of the meat with boiled meat. What 
effect does high-temperature cooking have upon the flavor of meat ? 

Meat is cooked in water : 

a. In making soup; all of the nourishment of the meat 
should be drawn out into the water. 

b. In stews ; part of the nourishment should be left in the 
meat. 

c. For serving meats whole ; all of the nourishment should 
be retained in the meat. 

For (a) the meat should be cut in small pieces, put on the 
stove in cold, slightly salted water, and simmered gently for 
five or six hours. 

For (b) the meat should be cut' in pieces suitable for 
serving, covered with boiling water, and then simmered 
gently for two or three hours, the salt being added when 
meat is about half cooked. 

For (c) the meat should be left whole, be plunged into 
boiling water, allowed to boil five minutes to coagulate the 



SOUPS 63 

protein on the surface, then simmered gently until tender, 
the salt being added when it is about half cooked. 

Soup Stock. The cheapest and toughest cuts of meat 
may be used in making soups. The hind shin of beef or 
the rump bone, the knuckle of veal, the neck of mutton, 
may be used. Left-overs of meats and vegetables may 
be saved and added to the stock, and the trimmings of 
meat and bone sent from the butcher's may be used for the 
same purpose. The soup kettle should be of granite or, 
if of iron, it should be very smooth or porcelain-lined. 
The cover of the kettle should fit closely to retain the 
steam. 

The scum which rises on the soup consists of the albumen 
and globulin of the meat and should not be removed. The 
long-continued action of hot water upon the collagen of the 
connective tissues will change it to gelatine and the fibers 
and bones will alone be removed upon straining. The stock 
should simmer gently for five or six hours, be strained through 
a colander, and allowed to cool, so that the fat may come to 
the surface and form a cake, which should be removed before 
the stock is used. In clear soups, every particle of fat must 
be removed. 

A brown stock may be made by browning about one 
third of the meat and vegetables before adding them to the 
stock kettle. 

About two thirds of the meat used should be lean, the 
other third, bone and fat. 

Do not wash meat by putting it into water to soak, but 
wipe thoroughly with a damp cloth before cutting. 

A general rule for stock : To every pound of meat and 
bone allow 1 qt. cold water, 1 ts. salt, 4 peppercorns, 4 cloves, 
\ ts. mixed herbs, 1 tb. each vegetable cut fine. 



64 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Stock 

2 Ib. shin of beef 2 ts. salt 

2 qt. cold wate,r 4 allspice 

6 cloves 1 sprig parsley 

8 peppercorns 1 small onion 

^ ssp. celery seed \ small carrot 

\ ts. mixed herbs (whole) \ small turnip 

Wipe, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put into the cold 
water with the vegetables and seasoning, and soak \ h. before 
heating ; heat gradually and let simmer 5 or 6 h. Strain and cool 
quickly. When ready for use, remove all fat ; heat, and season to 
taste. 

Brown Soup Stock 

4 Ib. shin of beef 6 cloves 

\ ts. peppercorns \ c. each, turnip, carrot, 

\ bay leaf onion, and celery cut 

4 ts. salt in dice 

4 qt. cold water 2 sprigs parsley 

Wipe beef. Cut lean meat into inch cubes. Brown one third 
of meat in hot frying pan in the marrow from bone. Put remainder 
of meat and bone in soup kettle with water and let stand f h. 
Add browned meat, the vegetables, and seasoning, and heat gradu- 
ally. Cook slowly 5 or 6 h., keeping just below the boiling point; 
strain and cool ; remove fat. 

Tomato Soup 

1 pt. stewed and strained 1 pt. stock 

tomatoes Salt and pepper to taste 

\ ts. sugar 

Add tomatoes to boiling stock; season, and serve with crou- 
tons. 



SOUPS 65 

Vegetable Soup 

1 qt. stock | c. onion 

1 pt. boiling water c. peas 

carrot c. celery 

^ turnip c. tomato 

\ potato 1 tbsp. rice 

Cut vegetables into uniform pieces or chop fine. Boil carrot 
and turnip, celery, onions, and rice in water 20 m. ; add other vege- 
tables and cook till tender. Add stock, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Boil 10 minutes and serve. 



Bouillon 

5 Ib. lean beef 1-3 c. each carrot, turnip, 

2 Ib. bone onion, celery 

4 qt. cold water \ ts. peppercorns 

1 tb. salt 

Wipe, and cut meat into inch cubes. Put two thirds of meat in 
soup kettle with bone and water, and soak \ h. Brown remainder 
of meat in marrow from bone, put into the soup kettle, heat slowly 
and simmer 5 h. Add seasoning and vegetables. Cook 1 h., 
strain and cool. Remove every particle of fat and clear. Serve 
in cups with a slice of lemon. 



To clear Soup 

Allow the white and shell of 1 egg to every quart of stock, season 
with \ ssp. celery seed, salt to taste, and add the thinly shaved rind 
of ^ lemon. 

Crush the shell, beat the white slightly, and add all to cold 
stock. Stir constantly till boiling point is reached. Boil 2 m. 
Set back where it may simmer 20 m. Strain through double thick- 
ness of cheesecloth. Reheat and serve. 



66 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

White Soup Stock 

3 Ib. knuckle veal 1 large stalk of celery 

1 Ib. lean beef ^ ts. peppercorns 

3 qt. water j bay leaf 

1 onion 2 sprigs thyme 

6 slices carrot 2 cloves 

Wipe, and cut meat into small pieces. Break the bone in several 
places. Put into a soup kettle and cover with cold water. Sim- 
mer gently for 4 h. Add vegetables and seasoning and simmer 1 h. 
longer. Strain; when cool, remove fat. 



Corn Soup 

1 pt. grated corn or kornlet 4 tb. flour 

1 qt. white stock or water 1 ts. chopped onion 

1 pt. milk . Salt and pepper 

3 tb. butter Beaten yolks 1 or 2 eggs 

Cook the corn and onion in stock or water 20 m. Rub through 
a sieve and add milk. When boiling, bind with the flour and butter. 
Add seasoning. Just before serving add the beaten yolks and serve 
immediately. 

Cauliflower Soup 

4 c. hot white stock | bay leaf 

cauliflower c. flour 

3 tb. butter 2 c. milk 

1 slice onion Salt 

1 stalk celery Pepper 

Soak cauliflower, head down, 1 h. in cold water. Cook in boiling 
salted water 20 m. Reserve a quarter of the flowerets, and rub 
remaining cauliflower through sieve. Cook onion, celery, bay leaf, 
in butter 5 m., but do not brown. Remove bay leaf, add flour, and 
stir into hot stock ; add cauliflower and milk. Season, strain, add 
flowerets, and reheat. 



SOUPS 67 

Force Meat Balls (to serve with stock soups) 

Chop cold cooked meat fine; season highly with salt, pepper, 
sweet herb, onion, etc. ; moisten with yolk of egg and a little stock 
or water. Mold into small balls, roll in flour, and brown in hot 
fat. Serve with soup ; or make larger balls and serve with a tomato 
sauce as a meat dish. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread in f inch slices and remove the crusts. Butter 
the slices lightly and cut them into inch cubes; bake them till 
they are a delicate brown. 

Toast Sticks or Rounds 

Cut bread into sticks or rounds, spread these with butter, and 
sprinkle with grated cheese ; bake until the cheese is melted. Serve 
very hot. 

Crackers 

Spread lightly with butter and cook in the oven until they are 
crisp. 

NOTE. Student write recipes for other cream soups, compar- 
ing them with those found in standard cook books. 



CHAPTER VIII 
PROTEIN EGGS 

PROTEIN holds an important place among the food principles, 
for it is the only one which supplies the nitrogenous materials 
necessary for the building and repair of the tissues of the 
body. As the tissues of the body contain nitrogen, foods 
must be supplied which contain nitrogen in a form in which 
the body can use it. Protein forms the basis of all living 
cells, being an essential part of the protoplasm, a jellylike 
content of the cell. Sugars and starches contain no ftitrogen 
and for this reason obviously cannot serve the important 
purpose which protein does. Without protein foods the 
body will weaken and undergo nitrogen starvation, or a 
breaking down of the tissues. 

The protein molecules are very complex, containing prob- 
ably many atoms each of the various elements of which 
they are composed. While something is known of the ar- 
rangement of these atoms, much is still to be learned and 
their chemical formulae have not been determined. Besides 
their important functions as tissue builders, the proteins 
serve also as heat-giving foods, as they contain carbon and 
hydrogen. Some of the substances into which they are 
changed during digestion are capable of forming fat in the 
body. To depend chiefly on protein, however, for fuel and 
for body fat is undesirable for many reasons, one of which 
is that foods rich in protein are almost always high priced. 
Fortunately, carbohydrates and fats seem to act to some 

68 



PRO TEIN EGGS 69 

extent as protein sparers, and when they are used in suffi- 
cient quantity, they prevent undue destruction of protein 
for the production of heat. 

Identification Test for Protein. Put raw white of egg in a 
saucer. Cut with a pair of scissors until you can take up a spoon- 
ful. Put | ts. of it in a test tube with a little water, add a few drops 
of nitric acid (HNOs). A white precipitate forms which when 
boiled turns yellow. This yellow color is characteristic of protein. 
When the mixture is cool, add a few drops of ammonia (NH 4 OH). 
An orange-brown color will result. 

EXPERIMENT 38. Test various foods to detect the presence of 
protein. Tabulate results. 

EXPERIMENT 39. Part 1. Prepare raw white of egg by cutting 
with scissors, and add to a small part of it ten volumes of water; 
filter through filter paper. Test the filtrate for protein. Is pro- 
tein soluble in cold water ? 

Part 2. Repeat, using boiling water with white of egg. Is albu- 
men soluble in boiling water? In cooking meats in water, when 
should they be placed in cold water ? in boiling water ? 

EXPERIMENT 40. Remove the residue of egg white left in the 
filter paper of Part 1 of the previous experiment, and put it in a 
test tube. Add a weak salt solution; mix well; filter. Test 
filtrate for protein. 

Is globulin soluble in weak salt solution? When should you 
add salt to water in cooking meats ? 

EXPERIMENT 41. Effect of heat upon albumen and globulin. 

Put half the white of an egg in a test tube. Put a thermometer 
in the tube and place it in a pan of cold water, having water deep 
enough to surround the egg; heat the water gradually. Note 
temperature when the first signs of coagulation are seen in the egg. 
At 180 F. remove some of the albumen ; continue heating to 212 
F. Compare the consistency of albumen cooked at 180 F. and 212 
F. What is the correct temperature for "soft-cooked" eggs? 

EXPERIMENT 42. (a) Boil 1 pt. water, place two eggs in it, 



70 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

remove from fire, keeping kettle closely covered to retain heat. At 
end of six minutes, remove one egg ; remove the other at the end 
of ten minutes. 

(6) Put an egg in boiling water and let boil three and one-half 
minutes. 

Compare the consistency of the three eggs. Is there any dif- 
ference ? What is the best method for cooking eggs soft ? 

EXPERIMENT 43. (a) Cook an egg in boiling water for seven or 
eight minutes. 

(6) Cook an egg in water just below the boiling point for twenty 
minutes or longer. 

Compare (a) and (&). Note difference in consistency of yolks 
and whites. What is the best method of cooking eggs hard? 
What effect does the temperature of 212 F. have upon pro- 
tein? 

Classification of Proteins. All proteins contain nitrogen, 
carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, sulphur; some contain also 
phosphorus and iron. However, there are many forms of 
protein, all possessing widely varied chemical and physical 
properties. By such experiments as those that have been 
performed and others much more complicated and extended, 
scientists have learned enough about these substances to 
classify them as follows : 

I. Simple Proteins : 

A. Albumen, found in egg, blood, milk, etc. 
Properties : (1) Coagulates with heat 

(2) Soluble in water 

(3) Soluble in weak salt solution 

(4) Insoluble in strong salt solution 

B. Globulin, found in egg, muscle, blood, milk, etc. 
Properties : (1) Coagulates with heat 

(2) Insoluble in water 

(3) Soluble in weak salt solution 

(4) Insoluble in strong salt solution 



PRO TEIN EGGS 7 1 

C. Alcohol-Soluble Proteins 

(1) Glutenin and gliadin, found in wheat, which, 

when mixed with water, unite to form 
gluten 

(2) Legumen of peas and beans 

D. Albuminoids or proteins found in skeleton and framework. 

Principal form is collagen, which is found in the white fibers 
of connective tissue and which, when boiled with water, 
forms gelatin 

Properties : (1) Dissolve in hot water 
(2) Form a jelly when cold 

E. Extractives 

In the animal body proteins are constantly breaking down 
into simpler substances, some of which contain nitrogen. 
At the time of killing, some of these nitrogenous sub- 
stances are in the tissues; they can be extracted with 
water and for this reason the name " Extractives " has 
been given them. As a human food they serve as mild 
stimulants and also as flavoring materials. It is not 
thought, however, that they can be used as building 
stones. If an animal is fed on a diet in which extractives 
are the only nitrogenous substances, it dies of what is 
called nitrogen starvation. 

The extractives are not coagulated by heat ; they will, there- 
fore, remain in solution when meat juice is heated. Not 
so, however, the albumen and globulin of meat juices; 
they are coagulated at a certain temperature and rise to 
the surface and form a scum. A beef broth, therefore, in 
which the proteins have been coagulated and removed by 
skimming or straining is wholly lacking in tissue-forming 
substances ; it is mildly stimulating, however, i.e. it spurs 
on the various processes of the body and may be the 
means of supplying water in a very acceptable form. 

II. Conjugated Proteins. Proteins which contain some other 
molecule united to the protein molecule 



72 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



A. Phospho-proteins. Are compounds of protein with a phos- 

phorus-containing substance. They are especially 
adapted to furnish the material for tissue growth. 
They are present in the casein of milk and vitellin of 
egg yolk. 

B. For other forms of protein see "Chemistry of Food and 

Nutrition," H. C. Sherman. 



EGGS 



,- Embryo orqerm -from 
I which chicken develops 



Twisted white cords 
upon which the 




White 
6hell"^ 

SECTION OF A HEN'S EGG 



'Air spctce 



-Skin //M/ 
the shell 



Composition of Edible Portion of Eggs (H. C. Sherman) 
Water, 73.7%; Fat, 10.5%; Protein, 14.8%; Ash, 1.0%. 

Composition of Yolk of Egg 
Water, 50.9%; Fat, 31.75%; Protein, 16.2%; Ash, 1.09%. 

Composition of White of Egg (Hutchinsori) 
Water, 85.7%; Fat, 0.25%; Protein, 12.6%; Ash, 0.59%. 

Eggs contain all the elements necessary for the growth of 
the body, as from the egg the young chick is formed. They 
are lacking, however, in carbohydrates, so it is better to eat 
them with bread, rice, potato, or other starchy foods. The 



PRO TEIN EGGS 73 

yolk of the egg forms a valuable source of iron and phos- 
phorus for the body. 

The edible portion of newly laid eggs almost fills the shell, 
but as the shells are porous the water evaporates, and air, 
containing decomposing bacteria, takes its place. As it is the 
presence of these bacteria which causes the egg to spoil, the 
principle of egg preservation is to prevent the evaporation 
of water by filling the pores of the shell. This is accomplished 
by placing the eggs in a solution of water glass. A fresh egg, 
containing more water than a stale one, will sink in water. 

To preserve eggs in water glass (sodium silicate). Boil ten to 
twelve quarts of water, rain water if possible. When cold, add one 
quart of water glass. Place clean, strictly fresh eggs in crocks, small 
ends down, and cover them with the water glass mixture. As the 
eggs will keep fresh for months, they may be preserved when the 
price is lowest. 

Price of eggs : . . . . January .... September 

. . . . April .... November 

When eggs are beaten, the tenacity of the albumen causes 
them to entangle air, thus increasing their bulk many times. 
In a cake or other mixture subjected to the heat of the oven, 
the air expands and lightens the mixture. If the egg is to 
be used to make mixtures light, we beat the egg well. For 
other purposes, to enrich or thicken mixtures, for example, 
there is no object in beating it more than enough to break it 
up and to insure its even distribution. 

The loss of weight when eggs are boiled is due to elimina- 
tion of water. The coagulation is a rearrangement of the 
atoms of the molecule, but there is no change in composition. 

When eggs are brought into the house, they should be 
washed and then put into a cool, dark place. They will keep 
better if perfectly clean, and it is a convenience to have the 
shells ready for use in clearing coffee. 



74 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Soft-cooked Eggs 

Put eggs into boiling water to well cover them. Remove kettle 
from stove and place where it will keep warm. Leave the eggs in 
the water from six to eight minutes. 

Hard-cooked Eggs 

Cook eggs in water just below the boiling point for twenty 
minutes. The yolks will then be dry and mealy and will be easily 
digested. 

Creamed Eggs 

Cut four hard-cooked eggs in halves or quarters and pour over 
them one cup white sauce. 

Egg Toast 

Add the chopped whites of 3 hard-cooked eggs to 1 c. thin white 
sauce and pour over three slices of toast. Rub the yolks through a 
strainer over the whole. Reheat in the oven, if necessary. Garnish 
with parsley and serve. 

Poached Eggs 

Have a shallow pan nearly full of boiling salted water. Reduce 
heat until the water is motionless. Break the eggs into a saucer, 
one by one, and slip into the hot water. When a film has formed 
over the yolks and the white is firm, take up with a skimmer and 
place on pieces of toast of uniform shape and size. 

Baked Custard 

2 c. milk | c. sugar 

2 or 3 eggs Pinch of salt 

Nutmeg 

Beat eggs slightly, and add to them the sugar and salt. Pour 
on them the milk. Strain into a buttered mold, add nutmeg. 



PRO TEIN EGGS 75 

Set mold in a pan of hot water. Bake in a slow oven till firm and 
until a knife inserted will come out clean. Do not allow the water 
around the custard to boil, as egg and milk combinations must cook 
at a low temperature or they will separate and become watery. 
Allow 2 eggs for cup custards and 3 if baked in a large mold. 

General Rules for Omelets. The pan for an omelet should 
be very clean and smooth. Allow one tablespoonful of 
water or milk to each egg used. For creamy omelets, beat 
the eggs slightly; for beaten omelets, beat the yolks and 
whites separately until very light. Chopped meat, chicken, 
vegetables, cheese, etc., may be spread over an omelet just 
before folding. 

Creamy Omelet 

4 eggs 2 ts. salt 

4 tb. milk or water \ ssp. pepper 

Beat eggs slightly, add other ingredients, mix well, and pour 
into a hot, buttered omelet pan. Lift gently with a fork as it begins 
to cook, letting the uncooked egg run under. When of a creamy 
consistency, roll and turn out. 

Ham Omelet 

Make the same as creamy omelet, and as soon as it begins to 
thicken, spread with 3 tb. finely minced ham. Roll and serve. 
Veal and chicken may be used the same way. 

Beaten Omelet 

Beat yolks of two eggs till lemon-colored and thick, add 2 tb. 
milk, 1 ssp. salt, \ ssp. pepper, fold in the beaten whites. Pour 
immediately into hot, buttered omelet pan, let brown on one side 
slightly, set in the oven to dry on top a little, fold, and turn on 
to hot platter. 



76 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Potato Omelet 

Chop 2 boiled potatoes fine, brown in 1 tb. hot butter, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Keep warm while you 
make a creamy omelet. When the omelet is partly set, spread 
potatoes over it, roll, and serve. 

Spanish Omelet 

3 tb. chopped bacon 

1 tb. chopped onions 

2 tb. chopped green pepper 

5 button mushrooms, chopped 
1 c. tomatoes 

Fry bacon, add onion and pepper, and cook till light brown. 
Add tomatoes and cook till of consistency of white sauce. Add 
mushrooms and salt to taste. 

Make a creamy omelet and just before folding spread with this 
mixture, or pour around a beaten omelet after it is on the platter. 



CHAPTER IX 
COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF MEATS 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 142, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture 





REFUSE 


WATER 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES 


ASH 


Beef: 


Per ct. 
19 7 


Per ct. 

KO A 


Per ct. 

1Q 1 


Per ct. 
17 Q 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 
S 


Porterhouse steak . 


19 Q 


K.A fl 


IfJ C 


i i 




Q 


Sirloin steak . 
Ribs 


20.8 


438 


13.9 


21.2 




0.7 




7 2 


60 7 


190 


12 8 




1.0 


Rump 


207 


45 


138 


202 




0.7 


Flank 


102 


540 


170 


190 




0.7 


Veal: 

Lpor 


142 


60 1 


15 5 


7 9 




0.9 


Breast 


21 3 


520 


15.4 


11.0 




0.8 




O A 


AC ^ 


90 1 


7 c 




i n 


Leg cutlets 
Mutton : 

T tier Viivirl 


0.4 

tO A 


Oo.o 
r-i o 


-4U.1 
1 r 1 


U7 




n s 


.Leg, nina .... 
Loin chops . . . 
Flank 


lo.' 
16.0 
99 


42.0 
390 


13.5 
13.8 


28.3 
36.9 




0.7 
0.6 


Lamb : 
Breast 


19 1 


45 5 


15.4 


19.1 




0.8 


Leg, hind .... 
Pork: 
Ham (fresh) . . . 
Loin chops 
Shoulder .... 
Ham (smoked) . . 

Qolf -r-vpjv.V 


17.4 

10.7 
19.7 
12.4 
13.6 


52.9 

48.0 
41.8 
44.9 
34.8 
7 Q 


15.9 

13.5 
13.4 
12.0 
14.2 
1 Q 


13.6 

25.9 
24.2 
29.8 
33.4 

QA 




0.9 

0.8 
0.8 
0.7 
4.2 
1 Q 


Bacon . 


7.7 


17.4 


9.1 


62.2 




4.1 



77 



78 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Structure of Meat. EXPERIMENT 44. Pick apart with 
needles some of the fibers of uncooked meat. Examine fibers under 
a microscope. Make drawings, noting the stripes (stria?) on fibers. 
Describe fibers of meat. 

The fibers or tubes are held together in bundles by means 
of connective tissues; these connective tissues consist of 
collagen, which is converted into gelatine by boiling in water. 
Thus, in cooking, the connective tissues are changed and the 
meat becomes more tender. The harder and tougher the 
connective tissues of the meat, the longer the time which 
will be required in cooking to change them to gelatine. In 
tender meats the collagen is changed by the steam formed 
from the juices of the meat in the processes of boiling and 
baking, but a large amount of water must be added to very 
tough meats to bring about this conversion. Hence tough 
meats must be cooked for a long time in a liberal amount of 
water and the temperature be kept just below the boiling 
point, in order that the protein may not be toughened. 

Tender Meat. Muscles which are least used by the ani- 
mal are the most tender, as those of the tenderloin, loin, and 
ribs. These command the highest market prices. The tube 
walls of the muscles are thin and delicate and there is little 
connective tissue. The tougher cuts of meat are equally 
nutritious and are much cheaper, and may be made into very 
palatable dishes. 

Beef. The best beef is obtained from steers, four to six 
years old, which are raised in the West and shipped alive to 
Chicago or some other packing center. After slaughtering, 
the animal is dressed and divided into quarters, which are 
placed at once in cold storage in order that they may cool 
quickly, for this improves their quality. From the cold 
storage rooms the beef is shipped in refrigerator cars to 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 79 

different parts of the country. Beef should hang from two 
to four weeks that it may become tender, but is often kept 
a much longer time without deterioration. 



BEEF 

DIAGRAM SHOWING BONES AND THE VARIOUS MARKET CUTS (Williams and Fisher) 




NAMES OF Curs 
1. Sirloin. 



2. Porterhouse. 



3. Rump. 

4. Round. 

5. Top sirloin. 

6. First prime ribs. 

7. Second cut ribs. 

8. Chuck ribs. 

9. Neck. 

10. Brisket. 

11. Cross rib. 

12. Plate. 

13. Navel. 

14. Flank. 

15. Shoulder. 

16. Shin. 



FOOD USES 
Steaks. 

(a) Hip bone sirloin, best sirloin steak. 

(b) Flat bone sirloin, second best sirloin. 

(c) Round bone sirloin, poorest sirloin. 
Steaks. 

(d) Club steak. 

(e) Tenderloin. 
Corning. 

(f) Best corning piece. 
Steaks and made dishes. 
Pot roast and steaks. 
Best roasts. 

Roasts. 

Poorer roasts and steaks. 

Beef tea, stews, or boiling. 

Corning. 

Pot roast. 

Corning. 

Corning. 

Stews or boiling. 

Soup. 

Soup. 



80 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
Points to Note in Judging Beef 



1. It should be a bright red color after it has been cut a 
short time. 

2. It should be well marbled with yellowish fat. 

3. It should have a thick layer of fat overlying the muscles. 

4. It should be firm to the touch. 

5. It should be free from disagreeable odor. 



MARKET CUTS OF BEEF 

Photographs used by permission of Teachers College, Columbia University 




First cut Prime Ribs 



Second cut Prime Ribs 




Chuck Ribs 



Blade Ribs 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 81 




Porterhouse Steak 



Small Porterhouse and Club Steak 




1. Chuck Steak 
Q 



2. Skirt Steak 



3. Flank Steak 



82 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




Round 



Round bone Sirloin 



VEAL 
DIAGRAM SHOWING BONES AND THE VARIOUS MARKET CUTS (Williams and Fisher) 




/ V v^ 

' m; 



NAMES OF CUTS 



1. Loin. 



2. Leg. 

3. Knuckle. 

4. Ribs. 

5. Shoulder. 

6. Neck. 

7. Breast. 

8. Sweetbreads. 

(a) Thymus gland in throat. 

(b) Pancreas. 



FOOD USES ' 
Roast and Chops. 

(a) Best Chops. 

(b) Poorer Chops. 
Roast and Steaks. 
Soup. 

Chops. 

Stuffed and Roasted. 

Stew. 

Roast, Stew. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 83 



Veal. Veal is the meat obtained from the calf. The 
flesh should be pink, and the fat white. If the flesh is white, 
the animal has been bled before being killed, or is too young 
to be fit for food. Veal may be obtained throughout the 
year, but is in season in the spring. 

SIDE OF VEAL 



1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 



3. Shoulder. 

4. Fore Shank. 




5. Breast. 

6. Ribs. 



9. Leg. 
10. Hind Shank. 



Farmers' Bulletin No. 34, U. S. Dept. Agriculture 

Veal should be thoroughly cooked and highly seasoned. 
Being deficient in fat, pork or butter should be used in the 
cooking. Veal is divided into fore and hind quarters. The 
fore quarter is divided into the breast, shoulder, ribs, and 
neck ; the hind quarter into the loin, leg, and knuckle. Cut- 
lets and fillets are taken from the thick part of the leg, cor- 
responding to the round of beef. 



84 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Mutton and Lamb. Mutton is the name applied to the 
meat of sheep. The best mutton comes from a heavy animal 
about three years old. The flesh should be of a bright red, 

MUTTON AND LAMB 
DIAGRAM SHOWING BONES AND VARIOUS MARKET Curs (Williams and Fisher) 




NAMES OF CUTS 



1. Loin. 

2. Leg. 

3. Ribs. 

4. Shoulder. 

5. Breast. 



FOOD USES 
Chops, (a) Best chops. 

(b) Poorer chops. 
Roast or boiled whole and steaks. 
Chops, (c) Best chops. 

(d) Poorer chops. 
Stuffed and roasted. 
Stew. 



and the fat hard and white. The meat should hang from 
two to three weeks to be in the best condition. The strong 
flavor of mutton may be lessened by removing the pink 
skin and trimming off the superfluous fat. Mutton ranks 
with beef in nutritive qualities. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 85 

Lamb is the name applied to the meat of lambs. When 
killed from six weeks to three months old, it is known as 
spring lamb, and may be procured as early as February, but 

SIDE OF MUTTON 




1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Shoulder. 



4. Breaat. 

5. Loin and Ribs. 

6. Leg. 



Farmers' Bulletin No. 34, U. S. Dept. Agriculture 


is scarce till March. Lamb may be eaten soon after the 
animal is killed and dressed. The bones of lamb are pink, 
while those of mutton are white. Lamb is preferred well 
done ; mutton is often eaten rare. 



86 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lamb and mutton are divided into two parts by cutting 
through the backbone, then subdivided into the hind and 
fore quarter. The ribs and loins are used for chops and 
roasts. The leg is sold whole for boiling or roasting. The 
breast is generally used for stews and the neck for broth. 

MARKET CUTS OF LAMB AND MUTTON 




1 and 2. Rib chops, Frenched. 5 and 6. Rib chops. 

3 and 4. Loin chops. 7. Blade shoulder chop. 

8. Round-bone shoulder chop. 

Pork. Pork is the meat of the hog. It contains more 
fat than that of any other animal. The lean should be fine- 
grained and of a pale red color, the fat white, and the skin 
clear and smooth. Reject the meat if the fat is a yellowish 
white and full of small kernels, and the flesh soft. The hind 
legs are salted and smoked and are called ham. Sugar-cured 
hams are the best. The shoulders are also salted and 
smoked and sold cheaper as " picnic hams." The ribs and 
loin are used for chops and roasts. The flank, which lies 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 87 



just below the ribs, is salted and smoked and called bacon. 
The best salt pork comes from the back on either side of 
the backbone. The solid fat which lies inside the flank is 
known as leaf lard. 

PORK 

DIAGRAM SHOWING BONES AND VARIOUS MARKET Curs (Williams and Fisher) 




NAMES OF Curs 

1. Loin. 

2. Ribs. 

3. Ham. 

4. Shoulder or picnic ham. 

5. Breast. 

6. Clear back fat. 

7. Jowl. 

8. Pigs feet. 



FOOD USES 

Chops or roast. 

Chops or roast. 

Boiled or sliced and broiled, etc. 

Poorer cut of ham. 

Salt pork or bacon. 

Salt pork. 

Head cheese, etc. 

Pickled. 



The tenderloins, of which there are two, lie under the 
backbone and extend from the ribs under the loin. Pork 
should be thoroughly cooked to be wholesome. It should 
not be eaten except in cold weather and never by children 
or people of weak digestion. 

NOTE. Students obtain prices of the various cuts of meat and 
tabulate them to show, 

(1) Prices procured by self, from "family" butcher. 

(2) Highest prices procured by any member of class. 

(3) Lowest prices procured by any member of class. 

Each class should visit a local meat market to inspect meat. 



88 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



General Methods of Cooking Meats : 1. Application of 
intense heat to keep in the juices and develop flavor. This 
is suitable for tender meats only. Broiling, roasting. 



SIDE OF PORK 




1. Head. 

2. Shoulder or Picnic ham. 

3. Back fat. 

4. Middle cut. 



5. Breast. 

6. Ham. 

7. Ribs. 

8. Loin. 



2. Cooking in water at low temperature. This is suitable 
for tough meats, bone, gristle, etc. Soups, stews. 

3. Browning or searing the meat with high temperature 
to develop flavor, and then cooking slowly in water to soften 
the fibers. This is suitable for meats that are neither tender 
nor very tough. Pot roasts, braising, casserole, etc. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 89 

Stewing. Stewing is a form of boiling or cooking for a 
long time, in a small amount of water, at a low temperature. 
The long-continued action of gentle heat will soften the 
coarsest fibers and connective tissue of meats, and thus the 
cheapest cuts of meat may be made palatable. 

Remnants of meat may be seasoned in various ways, 
and thus be made savory and attractive. 

Stews are called by various names, according to the nature 
of the ingredients, such as ragout, haricot, salmi, chowder, 
etc. 

Braising is a form of stewing in a covered pan in an oven. 

Beef Stew 

2 Ib. beef 4 small potatoes 

1 onion 2 ts. salt 

c. carrot and turnip 1 ssp. pepper 

diced Hot water to cover 

Wipe the meat, remove from bone, and cut in 2-inch pieces. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Melt some 
of the fat in a frying pan, add meat and the onion sliced, stir con- 
stantly that the surface may be quickly seared. Put into a 
kettle ; rinse the frying pan with hot water that none of the goodness 
may be lost. Add remaining bone and fat, cover with boiling water 
and boil 5m., then simmer until the meat is tender, about 3 
hours. Add carrot and turnip the last hour. Parboil potatoes 
and add to stew 20 m. before it is done. Remove large bones and 
fat, and thicken the stew with 2 tb. flour wet in cold water. Dump- 
lings may be added 10 m. before the stew is finished. Serve on a 
warm platter. 

Dumplings 

1 pt. flour 4 ts. baking powder 

| ts. salt About 1 scant c. milk 

Sift the dry ingredients, stir in the milk slowly, mixing with a 
knife till a soft dough is formed. Dip a spoon into the boiling stew, 



90 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

then take up a spoonful of dumpling and drop into the stew, letting 
it rest on the meat and potatoes. Cover closely and steam 10 m. 
without uncovering. Do not let the stew stop boiling after the 
dumplings are added. Serve immediately. 

Veal Stew 

The breast, neck, and knuckle of veal may be used for stew. Cut 
2 Ib. of veal in small pieces, remove all fine bone. Cover meat 
with boiling water, skim as it begins to boil. Add 2 small onions, 
2 ts. salt, 1 ssp. pepper. Simmer till tender, about 3 hours. Cut 
4 small potatoes in halves, parboil them 5 m., add to the stew. 
Thicken with 2 tb. flour wet in cold water, add 1 c. cream or milk, 
and more seasoning if necessary. 

Dumplings may be added. 

Irish Stew 

3 Ib. neck of mutton 4 potatoes, cut in dice 

4 onions 3 pt. hot water 

Salt and pepper 

Cut meat into pieces about 1 in. square, cover with the boiling 
water, add sliced onions, 2 ts. salt, and simmer gently 3 h. About 15 
m. before the stew is done add potatoes. Season, and serve when 
potatoes are tender. Dumplings may be added. 

Braising, Pot Roasts, etc. Braising is a form of stewing 
in the oven. Pot roasting is cooking in a kettle on top of 
the stove, using only a small amount of water. The less 
tender cuts of meat may be cooked by either method. The 
meat is browned first to improve the flavor and is then 
cooked slowly in a small amount of water, in a closely covered 
kettle or pan, until tender. 

Braised Beef 

Sprinkle c. each salt pork, carrot, onion, and celery, cut in 
dice, in a covered dripping pan, and place 5 Ib. beef round, rump, or 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 91 

shoulder, on them. Add 1 pt. stock or water, ^ bay leaf, piece of 
red pepper or 6 peppercorns, 3 cloves. Dredge meat with flour. 
Let brown in hot oven. Spread a few more of the vegetable cubes on 
top, add 2 ts. salt. Cover closely and cook in oven very slowly 4 or 5 
hours. Put meat on a platter, thicken the gravy, and serve with the 
meat. 1 cup tomato may be added when meat is half done. 



Pot Roast 

Four to six Ib. from the rump, round, or shoulder of beef. 
Brown the cut sides in a hot kettle in some fat from the beef, add 
1 c. hot water, season with salt and pepper, and place on the stove, 
where it will keep just below the boiling point. Do not let the 
water cook entirely away, but add only enough to keep the meat 
from burning. Cover closely and cook till very tender, but do not 
let it break. Serve hot or cold. When cold it may be cut in quarter 
inch slices and sauteed in hot butter. 

Roasting. Roasting is the process of cooking by the 
radiant heat of an open fire. It is seldom used now as a 
method of cookery, as few kitchens are supplied with the 
necessary apparatus. Roasting has been superseded by 
baking in an oven, although we still retain the name. Tender 
meats are most suitable for roasting. The larger the piece 
of meat, the less the surface in proportion to the weight; 
consequently, evaporation goes on less rapidly in a large 
piece, and it is more likely to remain juicy than a small one. 

The meat should be placed in the oven without adding 
any water. As it begins to brown, baste it with the hot fat 
that has melted out of the roast into the pan. Add enough 
boiling water from time to time to just cover the bottom of 
the pan to assist in basting and to prevent burning. The 
salt and pepper should be added when the surface is well 
seared over by heat. 



92 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

TIME-TABLE FOR ROASTING 

Beef Allow 15 minutes to each Ib. 

Mutton Allow 20 minutes to each Ib. 

Veal Allow 30 minutes to each Ib. 

Pork Allow 30 minutes to each Ib. 

4 Ib. chicken Requires ^bout 2 hours. 

2 to 3 Ib. fish . . Requires about 1 hour. 

Roast Beef 

Wipe meat with wet cloth, place in a dripping pan just large 
enough to hold it easily. Roast as in directions given. 

Roast Beef Gravy (Brown Sauce) 

Pour off all the fat from the dripping pan in which beef has 
been roasted, with the exception of about 4 tb. Add 5 tb. flour 
and stir till brown. Add 2 c. hot water. Cook five minutes or 
till thick and smooth. Season with salt and pepper. 

Yorkshire Pudding 
1 c. milk 1 or 2 eggs 

1 c. flour \ ts. salt 

Mix salt and flour. Add milk gradually to form a smooth paste. 
Then add eggs beaten very light. Cover bottom of a dripping pan 
with some of the beef fat from the roast. Pour in the mi. iur-e 
one half inch deep. When well risen, baste with the fat from the 
roast. Bake 30 minutes. Cut in squares for serving. It may be 
baked in hissing-hot gem pans. 

Roast Veal 

The leg, the thickest part of the leg or round, the loin, and ribs 
are used for roasting. When the leg is used, have it boned at the 
market. Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, stuff, and tie 
into shape. Place in dripping pan, dredge with flour and place 
strips of salt pork around it. Bake 30 minutes to ,the pound, bast- 
ing every 15 minutes with the fat in the pan, and boiling water. 
Serve with brown gravy made as for roast beef. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 93 

Roast Mutton 

Trim off pink skin and superfluous fat. Wipe the meat, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour. Put in a hot oven and 
baste often, using a little hot water. Roast 20 minutes to the 
pound. Make a gravy in the pan, as for roast beef. 

Broiling. Broiling is derived from the French word 
" bruler," meaning to burn. It is cooking directly over a 
fire, and is the hottest form of cooking. Only the most 
tender portions of meat and fish are suitable for broiling. 
The intense heat sears or coagulates the albumen on the 
outside of the meat and forms a coating which retains the 
juices of the meat. The secret of success in broiling is fre- 
quent turning, for by this means the meat is prevented from 
losing its juices, and also from burning. The free action of 
the air around the article cooking, combined with the intense 
heat, gives a flavor that cannot otherwise be obtained. 

If the fire is not suitable for broiling, the next best process 
is pan broiling or cooking in a hissing hot frying pan, with- 
out fat. Lay the meat on the hot pan, sear quickly on one 
side, turn (without sticking a knife or fork into it, thereby 
causing the juices to escape) and brown the other side. 
Turn often during the cooking. This is not frying if properly 
done, the frying pan, as commonly used, being the abomi- 
nation of the American kitchen. 



TIME-TABLE FOR BROILING 

Steak, one inch thick 4 to 6 m. 

Steak, one and one half inch thick 6 to 10 m. 

Small, thin fish 5 to 8 m. 

Thick fish 12 to 15 m. 

Chicken . . ' . 20 m. 



94 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The best cuts for broiling are porterhouse, sirloin, cross 
cut of rump steak, and second and third cuts from top of 
round, of tender meat. The flank end of porterhouse may 
be removed before broiling and used in the soup kettle to 
prevent waste in broiling. 

Broiled Steak 

Wipe the meat carefully with a cloth wet in cold water and trim 
off superfluous fat. Rub the wires of the broiler with the fat and 
lay the steak in the broiler, having the thickest part in the center 
and the fat near the handle. Broil over a clear fire, having the 
chimney damper open, turning every ten seconds for the first min- 
ute, or until it is well seared. Hold the broiler farther from the fire 
and turn occasionally until it is cooked. Place on a warm platter, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and bits of butter ; set in the oven a 
moment to melt the butter. Or, omit seasoning and butter, and 
spread with lemon butter, or pour a brown mushroom sauce around 
it. 

To broil with gas. Heat the broiling oven. Lay the 
meat on the rack and put near the flame at first. Brown 
both sides, then lower the gas flame, or put the pan farther 
away from the flame, thus cooking more slowly until meat 
is done. Turn three or four times during the cooking. Put 
on a warm platter and season as above. 

To pan broil. Heat a heavy iron pan until a drop of 
water will rebound in balls from it. Lay the steak or chops 
directly on the pan without fat. Turn often. Reduce heat 
and continue cooking until done. Place on a warm platter. 
A little hot water, butter, salt, and pepper may be added to 
the pan and then be poured over the meat, for a gravy ; or 
season as a broiled steak. 

To cook chops. Lamb and mutton chops may be broiled 
in the same manner as beefsteak. Veal chops must be more 
thoroughly cooked than is possible in broiling, so they must 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 95 

be rolled in some form of fat-proof coating and cooked in 
hot fat. Pork chops also require long cooking, but they 
contain enough fat in themselves to finish the cooking if 
they are placed directly on hot pan. 

Pork Chops 

Wipe chops, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and place in a hot 
frying pan ; reduce heat, cover, cook slowly until tender and well- 
browned on both sides, about twenty minutes. 

Veal Chops 

Trim and wipe the chops or slices from the thick part of the leg. 
Season with salt and pepper, roll in bread crumbs, then in egg 
beaten with 1 tb. water, and again in crumbs. Sauter in hot salt 
pork fat or lard till well browned on both sides. Arrange in a circle 
about the dish, and fill the center with mashed potatoes, peas, 
tomato sauce, or boiled and seasoned string beans. The chops may 
also be rolled in flour and cooked as above. 



Ham 

Wipe ham, remove the rind. Place ham in a hot frying pan and 
cook ten minutes or till brown on both sides. Put on a platter 
and keep warm. Make a gravy by adding 2 tb. flour to the fat 
in the pan and gradually stirring in 1 c. milk. Or fry eggs in the 
fat left in the pan and serve with the ham. 

If cooked too long, ham will become hard and dry. 

Bacon 

Remove rind from thin slices of bacon. Put bacon in a fine 
wire broiler, place over a dripping pan and bake in a hot oven until 
bacon is crisp and brown, turning once. The fat which has dripped 
into the pan may be used for frying. 



96 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lemon Butter 

2 tb. butter | tb. lemon juice 

\ ts. salt \ tb. minced parsley 

\ ssp. pepper 

Mix well and spread on hot broiled steak, chops, or fish, after 
placing them on the platter. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

4 tb. butter 1 pt. hot stock 

5 tb. flour Salt and pepper 

| can mushrooms 

Brown the butter, add flour and brown, but be careful not to 
burn. Let cool a little and add the stock gradually. Cook till 
smooth. Season, add mushrooms, and cook five minutes. 

1 tb. Worcestershire sauce or catsup may be added. 

Baked Breaded Veal and Tomato Sauce 

One cup bread crumbs, 3 tb. chopped salt pork, salt, and pepper. 
Wipe veal chops or steak and spread with the dressing, after putting 
in the pan. Bake 30 m. and serve with a sauce. Lamb chops 
may be prepared in the same way. If the crumbs are too brown 
before sufficiently baked, baste with a little hot water. Put 
tomato sauce in the center of the platter and arrange the chops 
around the edge. 

Hamburg Steak 

Chop the round of beef fine and season with salt and pepper, 
and if desired, a little onion. Make into cakes. Put in a greased 
broiler and broil over clear coals. Spread with butter. 

Veal Loaf 

2 Ib. lean veal chopped with \ Ib. salt pork. Add 4 butter 
crackers, rolled, 2 beaten eggs, 2 ts. salt, 1 ssp. pepper, 1 ssp. 
nutmeg. Pack into a small bread pan and bake slowly 2 hr. It 
may be served hot with a tomato sauce, or be served cold. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 97 

Dried Beef and Cream 

Ib. dried beef, thinly sliced 1 c. milk 

2 tb. butter 2 tb. flour 

Remove the skin and separate meat in pieces. Cover with hot 
water and let stand 10 m. Drain and fry in the hot butter. Add 
the milk and when boiling stir in the flour wet in a little cold milk 
or water. Cook till smooth. 

Warmed-over Meats. To prepare meats for warming 
over, remove all bone, skin, gristle, and excess of fat from 
meat. The bone, skin, and gristle may be put in the soup 
kettle in making stock, and the fat may be tried out for drip- 
pings. Cook quickly all tender meat, for if kept at boiling 
point for any length of time, the protein will become tough. 
Make the tough portions of meat tender by letting them 
simmer in water. Rice, macaroni, bread crumbs, tomatoes, 
onions, etc., may be used in combination with different 
meats, making many palatable dishes. Meat pies may be 
made, using baking powder biscuit dough or pastry for an 
upper crust. 

Hash 

Chop cooked meat, using a small amount of fat. Add an equal 
amount of chopped cold boiled potatoes. Season with salt and 
pepper and a little chopped onion. Put 2 or 3 tb. hot water in an 
iron frying pan and 1 tb. drippings. Put in the mixture, cover the 
pan and let simmer slowly till a brown crust is formed ; about 20 
minutes. Do not stir. Fold over, turn out on a warm platter, 
and garnish with parsley. 

Cottage Pie 

Chop cold meat fine. To every cupful add 1 ssp. salt, \ ssp. 
pepper, a pinch of summer savory or thyme, f c. gravy or stock. 
Put into a baking dish and cover with a crust of mashed potatoes. 

H 



98 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Brush with milk and bake in the oven till a golden brown, about 
twenty minutes. Omit the herb and add 1 ts. finely chopped onion, 
if liked. 

Meat Rechauffe 

Make a wall of mashed potatoes around a baking dish and fill 
the center with cooked meat cut in cubes. Pour over the meat 
a gravy, tomato, or white sauce. Bake till a delicate brown. Gar- 
nish with parsley. 

Minced Mutton 

Chop meat. Put into a frying pan, season with salt, pepper and 
celery salt. Dredge well with flour, stir, and add enough stock, or 
hot water, to make a gravy. Cook about 5 minutes. Pour over 
slices of toast. 

Meat Souffle 

Make 1 c. white sauce, season with a little onion and parsley, 
add 1 c. finely chopped meat (veal or chicken preferred). Add 
yolks of two eggs well beaten. Cook 1 m. When cool fold in the 
beaten whites. Bake in a buttered baking dish about 20 m. 
in slow oven. Serve immediately. If for lunch, serve with mush- 
room sauce. 

White Mushroom Sauce 

Melt 2 tb. butter, add 2 tb. flour. When bubbling, add slowly 
f c. milk and c. mushroom liquor. Season with salt and pepper. 
Add | can of mushrooms, cut fine. When heated, serve. 

Scalloped Chicken 

Put a layer of chicken cut into small pieces into a baking dish, 
then a layer of white sauce; repeat, having white sauce for top 
layer. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake till brown. 



Forcemeat Balls 
See p. 67. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 99 

Croquettes 
See p. 148. 

Pressed Chicken 

Chop cold boiled chicken fine, keeping the light and dark meats 
separate. Season with salt, celery salt, cayenne. Boil down the 
liquor in which the chicken was cooked and add to boiling liquid 
\ box of gelatine which has been soaked in c. cold water, and 
moisten the meat with it. Put a layer of dark meat in a square 
mold, then strips of tongue or ham, a layer of white meat, whole 
hard-boiled eggs, white meat, tongue, and dark meat as a last 
layer. Put a heavy weight on top and let stand for several hours. 
Remove from mold and cut in slices. 



CHAPTER X 
POULTRY AND FISH 

COMPOSITION OF POULTRY (ATWATER) 





REFUSE 


WATER 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


ASH 


Chicken, broiler . . 
Fowls 


Per ct. 
41.6 
25.9 


Per ct. 

43.7 

47 1 


Per ct. 
12.8 

13 7 


Per ct. 

1.4 
123 


Per ct. 

.7 
7 


Goose 


17.6 


38 5 


13 4 


298 


7 


Turkey 


22 5 


424 


16 1 


184 


8 















To select Poultry. Soft yellow feet, smooth skin, soft 
cartilage at end of breastbone, pinfeathers, tender skin 
under the wing which is easily broken by bending back the 
wing, indicate tender poultry. 

Long hairs, long thin necks, flesh of purplish tinge, hard 
feet with sharp scales, indicate tough poultry. 

Cost of Chicken 

(Students compile following facts from the weight of chicken 
used in lesson :) 

Cost of chicken as purchased * . . 

Weight of chicken as purchased 

Cost per pound as purchased 

Weight after dressing 

Weight of bones 

(obtained after chicken has been cooked) 
Weight of edible meat 

(difference between dressed meat and weight of bones) 

Cost per pound of edible meat 

100 



POULTRY W'WtSB 101 

To prepare Poultry for Cooking. Remove pinfeathers, 
singe to remove hairs, over a tb. alcohol burning in a saucer 
or over a blaze. Cut off head ; cut the skin down the back 
of the neck, remove windpipe and crop. Cut neck off close 
to the body, leaving the skin long that it may be folded over 
on the back of thg chicken in cooking. Cut through the 
skin below the leg joint without cutting the tendons. Place 
leg at end of board and break the joint ; hold the fowl firmly 
in left hand and pull off the foot with tendons. In old birds, 
the tendons must be taken out one at a time, using a steel 
skewer. Make an incision below the breastbone and with 
the hand remove the entrails, gizzard, heart, and liver. The 
last three are called giblets. Do not break the gall bladder, 
which lies on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. 
Remove carefully the lungs and kidneys, which lie in the 
hollow near the backbone. Remove the oil bag and wash 
the fowl by letting cold water run through it, but do not let 
it soak in cold water. Clean the giblets carefully. 

To cut up a Chicken. Singe, and remove the pinfeathers. 
Cut off the legs and wings at the joints. Cut from near the 
vent, through the membrane lying between the end of the 
breastbone and the tail, down to the backbone, on either 
side. Then remove the entrails. Break off the backbone 
just below the ribs. Cut through the cartilage dividing the 
ribs, and separate the collar bone from the breast. 

Methods of Cooking Chickens 
Young chickens. 

(1) Broiled, (2) fried, (3) roasted. 
Old chickens. 

(1) Roasted, (2) boiled, (3) fricassee, (4) stew, (5) cas- 
serole. 



102 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Roast Chicken 

Clean and stuff a chicken. Sew up the incisions. Rub all over 
with salt. Tie it into a compact shape, fastening the legs and wings 
close to the body ; dredge with flour. Lay strips of salt pork over 
chicken. Place in a hot oven, and when the flour browns baste 
with boiling water every 10 m., using more water, if necessary, 
to prevent burning. Turn the chicken that it may brown evenly. 
When the breast meat is tender, the chicken is sufficiently 
cooked. Cook the giblets in water until tender. 

Stuffing 

Two c. crumbs, 2 tb. butter, or small piece salt pork chopped, 
salt, pepper, marjoram, summer savory, or thyme to taste, ^ c. boil- 
ing water. Melt the butter in the water and pour over the crumbs 
to which seasoning has been added. 

Chicken Gravy 

Pour off all but about 4 tb. of fat from the pan in which chicken 
has been roasted. Add 5 tb. flour; when brown, add 2 c. of the 
water in which giblets have been boiled. Cook 5 minutes, season 
with salt and pepper, and if liked, add the giblets finely chopped. 

Stewed Chicken 

Dress, clean, and cut up a chicken. Put into a kettle with a few 
slices of salt pork and barely cover with boiling water. Boil 5 m., 
then simmer until tender. When about half done add 1 ts. salt. 
Cook a young chicken about 1^ h., an old one 2 to 2^ h. When 
done wet 4 tb. flour in cold water to form a smooth paste and stir 
into the boiling mixture. Season. Add 1 c. cream or milk and 
2 tb. butter. When hot serve. Dumplings may be added. 

Creamed Chicken 

1| c. cold chicken, diced 1 c. white sauce 

| ts. celery salt I c. mushrooms, sliced 

Heat the chicken and mushrooms in the sauce over hot water. 
Serve on toast, in toast boxes, or patty shells. 



POULTRY AND FISH 



103 



FISH 

COMPOSITION OF VARIOUS FISH (ATWATER.) 





REFUSE 


PROTEID 


FAT 


MINERAL 
MATTER 


WATER 


Black Bass .... 
Bluefish 


54.8 
55 7 


9.3 

83 


.8 

5 


.5 
5 


34.6 


Fresh Cod . . . 


52 5 


8 


2 


6 




Salt Cod boneless 
Mackerel 
Salmon 
Trout 


44.6 
39.2 
48 1 


22.2 
10 
12.4 

98 


.3 
4.3 

8.1 
1 1 


23.1 

.7 
.9 
6 


40 4 


Whitefish 


53 5 


10 3 


3 


7 


32 5 


Lobster 


61 7 


59 


7 


8 


30 7 















Fish should be fresh and be used in season. When fresh, 
the fish is firm, the eyes bright. White-blooded fish have 
fat secreted in the liver. Examples : whitefish, cod, had- 
dock, perch, etc. Red-blooded fish have fat distributed 
throughout the flesh. Examples : salmon, mackerel, blue- 
fish, herring. Broiling, boiling, baking, are the most whole- 
some methods of cooking fish. 



Broiled Fish 

Bone the fish, removing the head and tail. Wipe and dry, and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place in greased broiler and broil 
the flesh side first; then turn and broil the skin side till brown 
and crisp. Loosen the fish from both sides of the broiler and slip 
on to a hot platter, flesh side up. Season with salt and pepper and 
butter, or spread with lemon butter. Garnish with parsley and 
lemon. 

Planked Fish 

Bone a fish. Lay it on a hot hardwood plank, flesh side up. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and bits of butter. Bake on upper 



104 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

shelf in oven or under a gas broiler, about 30 m. or till brown. Ten 
minutes before it is done put a border of mashed potatoes around 
the fish, using a pastry bag and tube. 

Put plank on a platter and garnish with parsley, shredded lettuce, 
radishes, lemon fans, etc. 

Baked Fish 

Clean, wash, and dry the fish. Do not remove the head or tail. 
Rub all over with salt, stuff, and sew up. Put two strips of cotton 
cloth in pan (if you have not a fish sheet), to help remove the fish 
when baked. Lay the fish in the pan and skewer into the shape of 
a letter S. Cut gashes on top and lay strips of salt pork in them 
and around the pan. Sprinkle the fish with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Put in a hot oven. When the flour begins 
to brown, baste with the fat in the pan and boiling water. The 
fish is done when the flesh separates easily from the bone. Bake 
about 1 hour. 

Lift carefully on a hot platter, draw out skewers or strings, and 
serve with drawn butter or egg sauce. 

Boiled Fish 

Add the juice of \ lemon or \ c. vinegar to the water in which the 
fish is to be boiled. Put fish on a plate and tie all in a piece of 
cheesecloth. Put fish in boiling water and let simmer until the 
flesh separates easily from the bones. Add 1 tb. salt to water when 
fish is nearly cooked. Remove from plate and put on a folded 
napkin on a platter. Serve a sauce separately. Or, omit napkin 
and pour sauce over and around the fish. 

Drawn Butter 

1 pt. hot water or stock 4 tb. flour 

6 tb. butter \ ts. salt 

\ ssp. pepper 

Put 4 tb. butter in the pan; when bubbling, but not brown, 
add the flour. Add hot water a little at a time. When thick and 



POULTRY AND FISH 105 

perfectly smooth add seasoning and remainder of the butter. Stir 
till the latter is absorbed. Chopped hard-boiled eggs may be 
added. 

Fried Fish 

Clean fish and wipe as dry as possible. Roll in seasoned crumbs, 
dip in egg slightly beaten with 1 tb. water, and roll again in crumbs ; 
or if preferred, dip in corn meal. Cook in a frying pan, in hot fat, 
till brown on both sides. 

Large fish should be boned and cut in pieces for serving. To fry 
in deep fat see page 145. 

Turbot 

Steam a whitefish till tender. Remove bones and skin, and flake 
the fish. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Make a white sauce with 
1 pt. milk, 6 tb. flour and 4 tb. butter. Season with salt and pepper. 
When cool add 1 or 2 beaten eggs, 1 tb. each minced onion and par- 
sley. Put layers of fish and sauce in a baking dish. Sprinkle top 
with buttered crumbs and bake till brown. 

Creamed Codfish 

Pick salt codfish in small pieces, cover with cold water, heat, 
and let simmer till tender. Drain and cover with milk. When 
boiling thicken with flour and butter rubbed together in the pro- 
portion of 2 tb. of each to every cup of milk. Just before serving 
add 1 beaten yolk of egg. Cook 1 m. 

Fish Balls 

1 c. raw salt fish 1 egg well beaten 

1 pt. potatoes \ ssp. pepper 

1 ts. butter More salt if needed 

Shred the fish. Pare and quarter potatoes. Put fish and pota- 
toes in stewpan and cover with boiling water. Boil 25 m. or 
till potatoes are soft. Do not boil too long or they will be soggy. 



106 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Drain well. Mash and beat till very light. Add butter and 
pepper, and when slightly cool, the beaten egg. Shape in a tb. and 
drop in a kettle of smoking hot fat. Fry only a few at a time, or 
they will cool the fat. Drain on brown paper. Or, shape into 
flat cakes, roll in flour, and sauter in hot fat. 

Salmon in Mold 

1 can salmon 4 tb. melted butter 

3 eggs, beaten light | c. fine bread crumbs 

Salt, cayenne, parsley 

Remove oil, bones and skin from fish. Mince fish fine. Rub 
in the butter till smooth. Add crumbs to beaten egg. Season the 
fish, Add eggs and crumbs. Put into a buttered mold, cover the 
mold, and steam 1 h. Serve with sauce. 

Sauce for Salmon 

Make a sauce with 1 c. boiling milk, 1 tb. flour, and 2 tb. butter. 
Add liquor from the salmon. Season with salt, cayenne, 1 ts. 
tomato catsup. Just before taking from fire add 1 beaten egg. 

Sardines on Toast 

Drain sardines. Cook in a chafing-dish till heated, turning often. 
Place on small oblong pieces of toast and serve with lemon butter. 
Or, lay sardines on toast and heat in a moderate oven. 

Lobster Farci 

1 pt. can lobster 4 tb. butter 

1 pt. milk 6 tb. flour 

Salt and cayenne 

Melt the butter, add flour, and when bubbling add milk gradu- 
ally. When thick and smooth add lobster, which has been picked 
fine. Season. Put in buttered shells. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake till brown. 



POULTRY AND FISH 107 

Escalloped Oysters 

1 pt. oysters 1 c. crumbs 

4 tb. oyster liquor f c. butter melted 

6 tb. milk or cream Salt and pepper 

Stir the melted butter into the crumbs. Put a thin layer in 
bottom of a buttered baking dish, cover with oysters, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, add part of the milk and oyster liquor. Re- 
peat, and cover the top with crumbs. Bake 40 m. in hot oven. 
Two layers of oysters are sufficient ; if more be used, the center layer 
will be underdone. 

Creamed Oysters 

Wash, by pouring over them | c. water, and look over 1 c. oysters. 
Parboil them in the oyster liquor and the water in which they 
were washed, until the edges curl and the oysters are plump. Drain. 
Make a white sauce with 

3 tb. butter | c. oyster liquor 

3 tb. flour \ ts. salt 

f c. milk \ ssp. pepper 

Add the parboiled oysters and cook till hot. Serve on toast, 
in toast boxes, or patty shells,. 

Toast Boxes 

Cut stale bread into 2 inch cubes, trim the crust, take out the 
center, leaving the bread in the form of a box. Brush with melted 
butter and bake in a quick oven until a light brown. 

Fill with any creamed mixture. 



CHAPTER XI 
MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 

AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF MILK (SNYDER) 



WATER 


FAT 


CASEIN 


ALBUMEN 


LACTOSE 


ASH 


87.0% 


3.5% 


3.25% 


0.5% 


5.0% 


0.75% 



Milk is the food of the young animal, and hence contains all 
the nutrients necessary for the support of the body. Owing 
to the large per cent of water in its composition, milk is a 
bulky food, and being deficient in starch, is not a satisfactory 
food for the healthy adult. 

Milk is a white, opaque liquid. It consists of a bluish 
white liquid, called serum, in which float globules of fat, 
which give the milk the appearance of a white liquid. These 
fat globules are suspended through the milk in the form of 
an emulsion, fresh milk being the most perfect example of 
an emulsion. Upon standing, however, the emulsion is 
broken and the fat rises to the surface in the form of cream. 

Butter is made by separating the fat from cream by 
churning, thus completely breaking down the emulsion of 
fat. Skimmed milk contains practically all the ingredients 
of whole milk with the exception of the fat, and forms a 
cheap supply of protein. The protein of the milk is largely 
in the form of casein, which contains both sulphur and 
phosphorus. 

108 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 109 

Casein coagulates when an acid is added to it, or when 
an acid is formed in the milk during the process of lactic 
fermentation. /It forms a clot in the stomach by the action 
of the enzyme rennin, which is secreted by the stomach, and 
it then digests as a solid food. In cheese making and in the 
making of junket, a commercial form of rennin obtained 
from the second stomach of the calf is added to the milk, 
thus causing it to clot. The addition of limewater, or some 
cereal water, as barley water, tends to make the casein form 
a lighter and more digestible clot, hence they are often 
added to baby foods. \ 

The albumen of milk, or lact-albumen, coagulates with 
heat and forms the scum of boiled milk. 

Lactose, or milk sugar, is less soluble than cane sugar and 
does not taste as sweet. It is the sugar which is used in 
baby foods. It is obtained from the whey left from cheese 
making after the casein and fat have been removed. 

The souring of milk is caused by the action of lactic bacilli 
present in the milk. The bacilli feed upon the lactose 
changing it to lactic acid, which acid reacts upon the casein, 
causing it to coagulate, or form a curd. In the large in- 
testine of the human body are found great numbers of bac- 
teria which feed upon the food residue present there, forming 
injurious compounds which are absorbed by the blood, with 
harmful results. The growth of some of these putrefactive 
bacteria is thought to be checked by the presence of lactic 
acid and by the action of lactic bacilli ; hence, sour milk is 
considered a healthful, as well as a nutritious food. 

The mineral matter in milk consists largely of the phos- 
phates and chlorides of soda, lime, and potash. 

Milk contains large numbers of bacteria. Few bacteria 
are normally present in fresh milk, but they enter the milk 
on account of the unsanitary conditions attendant upon 



110 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

milking and the subsequent care of milk. They reproduce 
very rapidly if the milk is not cooled. Typhoid fever, chil- 
dren's summer diseases of the intestines, tuberculosis, and 
other diseases are often traced to the milk supply ; con- 
sequently, the most cleanly conditions should be insisted 
upon by the health authorities, in the stable, the care of 
the cow, cleanliness of the milkers and of all utensils which 
hold the milk. Milk should be sold only in bottles which 
are filled and sealed at the dairy, the seal to be broken by 
the consumer only. 

EXPERIMENT 45. Put a drop of cream on filter paper ; when 
dry, note the characteristic grease spot. This is a test for fat. 

EXPERIMENT 46. Fill a tall cylinder with milk, and determine 
the specific gravity with a lactometer. 

EXPERIMENT 47. Examine a drop of milk under microscope. 
Explain appearance and make a drawing of the fat globules seen. 

EXPERIMENT 48. To \ c. milk warmed to 100 F. add \ of a 
rennet tablet dissolved in \ ts. water. Mix quickly. Let stand in 
a warm place until the milk clots. Break the clot lightly and put 
into a filter paper. Test the curd or casein for protein. (See pro- 
tein test, page 69.) 

EXPERIMENT 49. Test the filtrate from above experiment 
with Fehling solution for sugar. 

BUTTER 

Butter is made by separating the fat globules of cream by 
churning, after the cream has soured from the action of bac- 
teria. 

COMPOSITION OF BUTTER (J. C. Olsen) 



FAT 


WATER 


SALT 


SUGAR 


84% 


12.8 % 


2% 


0.4% 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 111 

Butter fat is one of the most palatable, easily digested, 
and easily assimilated forms of fat. Its flavor is due to 
bacterial action. In the modern creamery all conditions are 
most sanitary ; bacteria which give a disagreeable odor and 
taste to butter are not present. Butter is artificially colored, 
but the coloring is harmless. 

Renovated butter is butter which has become rancid and 
is then subjected to a process of renovation, by which the 
disagreeable odors and flavors are removed. It is not an 
unwholesome product, but should not be sold at butter 
prices. Most states require that it be plainly marked 
" renovated " or " process " butter. 

Oleomargarine or Butterine. The manufacture of these 
butter substitutes is carried on under government inspection, 
and the products are clean and wholesome, lacking, however, 
the delicate flavor of butter. They are manufactured from 
a high grade of lard, cottonseed oil, and milk, and a small 
amount of butter is generally added for flavor. There is no 
objection to their use in cookery, and when they are sold 
under their true names and at a reasonable price, they are 
good substitutes for butter in cooking. 

EXPERIMENT 50. Foam test to distinguish butter from oleo- 
margarine. Melt in separate dishes butter, oleomargarine, and 
renovated butter. The butter boils quietly and produces consider- 
able foam, while the other two sputter and crackle violently, pro- 
ducing but little foam. 

EXPERIMENT 51. Beat one pint of ripened cream with an egg- 
beater or whip churn until the butter fat separates. Collect these 
lumps and form into a mass. Wash in cold water to remove any 
milk ; drain off the water. Add salt to taste. Weigh the butter 
and estimate the cost. How much cream would be required to 
make one pound of butter? What is the composition of butter- 
milk? 



112 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



CHEESE 
AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF CHEESE (ATWATER) 



WATER 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


.CARBOHYDRATES 


ASH 


34.2% 


25.2 % 


33.7% 


2.4% 


3.8% 



Cheese is made from whole milk, from milk plus cream, 
from cream, and from skim milk. The casein is precipitated 
by the action of rennet, forming a curd to which most of 
the fat attaches itself. The curd is then broken up and the 
whole heated to about 108 F. The whey is drained off, 
carrying with it most of the lactose and albumen. The 
curd is salted and pressed. It is then kept for several weeks 
or longer to develop flavor, or ripen by the action of bacteria. 
The texture of the cheese also changes in ripening. 

As a food, cheese is used in small amounts as a flavor, 
and in large amounts as a highly nutritive protein food. 
The lower-priced cheeses are an important source of protein 
and fat in the diet and make good meat substitutes. It has 
been shown that cheese is not difficult of digestion for the 
majority of persons. 

EXPERIMENT 52. (a) Heat a small piece of cheese in a pan 
directly over the fire until it melts.- Let boil and note results. 

(6) Melt a similar piece of cheese in a pan over hot water, 
removing from water as soon as it melts. 

Compare the texture of results of (a) and (6). Should cheese 
be cooked at a high or low temperature ? What food principle must 
be considered in cooking cheese? 

The Care of Cheese. Wrap the cheese in a slightly 
dampened cloth or in paraffin paper and then in a heavier 
paper. Cheese molds more readily when it is put in a covered 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 113 

dish with the air excluded. Cheese contains a large per 
cent of protein, so should not be raised to a high tempera- 
ture in cooking. Many palatable dishes can be prepared 
from cheese but since it is deficient in starch, some starchy 
food is usually added to it, as macaroni, rice, bread, etc. 

Cottage Cheese 

Set a dish of thick sour milk in a pan of lukewarm water (100). 
When the curd is well set, strain off the whey through a cheese 
cloth. Work the curd with a fork or potato masher until fine- 
grained. Season with salt and moisten with cream. Shape into 
small cakes suitable for serving. Chopped parsley, pimentos, or 
olives may be added to vary the flavor. 

Welsh Rarebit No. i 

\ Ib. rich cream cheese 1 egg 

| c. milk or cream 4 slices of toast or wafers 

| ts. mustard Speck of cayenne 

Cut the cheese in small pieces and melt over hot water, in chafing 
dish or double boiler. Add milk and stir rapidly. Add the season- 
ing to the beaten egg, stir in slowly and cook till it thickens a little, 
but do not let it curdle. Pour over the toast or wafers. 

Welsh Rarebit No. 2 

Melt cream cheese in double boiler or chafing dish. Add milk 
or cream slowly to thin. Season with cayenne and mustard and 
stir in a beaten egg. When smooth pour over toast or wafers. 
Do not overcook the cheese. 

American Rarebit 

Soak 1 c. grated bread crumbs in 1 c. milk fifteen minutes. Melt 
2 tb. butter in chafing-dish, add 1 c. grated or broken cheese. 
When cheese is melted, add the bread and milk, 1 egg well beaten, 
salt and cayenne to taste. Stir rapidly, and when smooth serve 
on toast or crackers. 
i 



114 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cheese Fondue 

1 c. scalded milk 1 tb. butter 

1 c. soft stale bread crumbs ts. salt 

i Ib. mild cheese cut fine j ts. mustard 

or grated Few grains cayenne 

Add above ingredients to hot milk. When well mixed, remove 

from fire and add 2 beaten yolks of eggs. Fold in 2 beaten whites. 

Put into a buttered earthen baking dish, and bake twenty minutes 

in a moderate oven. Serve immediately, as it will fall if it stands. 



CHAPTER XII 
WATER AND BEVERAGES 

WATER is composed of hydrogen and oxygen, its chemical 
formula being H 2 0. Water is very widely distributed in 
nature ; it covers three-fourths of the earth's surface, and is 
present in the soil and rocks and in all animal and vegetable 
organisms. The human body is composed of about 70 per 
cent water. The body obtains its water supply from foods 
and beverages, and a small amount of water is formed 
chemically in the body by the oxidation of the hydrogen of 
foods. 

Water is a very important solvent, dissolving many sub- 
stances. It also holds many organic substances in suspen- 
sion. Water which is chemically pure contains no foreign 
substance of any kind. Distilled water or condensed steam 
is the only chemically pure water. Water that is hygieni- 
cally pure contains no substance which is injurious to the 
health of those drinking it. 

Harmful or disease-producing bacteria and decaying ani- 
mal and vegetable matter are the chief sources of water con- 
tamination, although the presence of many chemicals makes 
it unfit for drinking. The disease-producing bacteria most 
commonly found in drinking water are the typhoid bacilli. 
Many cases of typhoid fever may be traced to the water 
supply or to milk which has been diluted with impure water. 
The common house fly has been found to be a carrier of the 
typhoid bacillus and should never be allowed to settle on 
food or on utensils which hold it. 

115 



116 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Sources of Water. 1. Rainwater. 2. Springs. 3. Rivers and 
lakes. 4. Surface wells. 5. Deep or artesian wells. 

Rain water takes up the dust and gases from the air, and 
organic matter from the roofs over which it is collected. 
The long storing in a cistern gives bacteria opportunity to 
grow in large numbers, causing the water to be unsafe for 
drinking purposes. 

Springs are a source of pure water supply if they are not 
contaminated by passing through soil which is polluted. 

Rivers and lakes are a common source of water supply, 
but they may be made very unfit for drinking if the surface 
water and sewage from towns and cities is allowed to drain 
into them. 

Surface wells are a very unsafe source of drinking water 
supply, and the water should never be used when there are 
cesspools, drains, barnyards, or any other sources of contam- 
ination within a radius of 200 feet of them. 

Deep artesian wells furnish pure water as a rule, unless the 
piping is not tightly jointed, when impure water from a 
subsoil stream near the surface may enter the pipes. 

Methods of Purification of Water. 1. Boiling. 2. Filtration. 
3. Distillation. 

Boiling is a certain method of destroying bacteria. If 
there is the slightest doubt as to the purity of the water, it 
should be boiled for twenty minutes and then be quickly 
cooled. It should be put into perfectly clean bottles, tightly 
stopped, and be placed on or near the ice. 

Filtration. The modern filter contains a hollow tube of 
unglazed porcelain, which is porous and through which the 
water percolates slowly. All mechanical impurities of the 
water are deposited on the surface of the tube. These im- 
purities usually carry the bacteria, which are thus removed. 



WATER AND BEVERAGES 117 

The tubes should be washed often, and occasionally be re- 
moved from the filter to be baked or steamed. 

Charcoal is used in many filters, as it removes all color, 
odor, and taste from the water by holding back the organic 
matter ; but the charcoal may soon become a source of con- 
tamination, as bacteria will grow rapidly in the organic 
matter present. 

Many cities purify the water supply by precipitating the 
organic matter present by the addition of iron sulphate, 
alum, or calcium hydrate. The bacteria are entangled in the 
precipitate, which is then filtered out by mechanical filtra- 
tiqn through sand and gravel. 

Distillation is the process of condensing steam. The 
water thus obtained is the only chemically pure water. 

Ice. Freezing has little effect upon bacteria except to 
lessen temporarily their vitality. When the ice melts, the 
bacteria may again become active. Ice made by artificial 
means from distilled water is the only pure ice. For cooling 
drinking water, the water should be placed on the ice and 
the ice should not be put into the water. 

Hard and Soft Water. Soft water is water in which no 
mineral matter is dissolved. Hard water is water in which 
such minerals as lime, magnesium, and iron are dissolved. 
Boiling precipitates some of the mineral matter, thus tend- 
ing to soften the water. This mineral deposit may be seen 
on the inside of a teakettle. Hard water that is to be used 
for cleansing purposes may be softened by the addition of 
washing soda, borax, ammonia, potash, or soda lye. 

BEVERAGES 

Pure water ranks as the first and most important of 
beverages. An adult should drink about three pints of 
water a day. Tea and coffee are stimulants, furnishing 



118 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

no real nutriment to the body, as they give neither heat 
nor energy, nor do they build tissue. If taken in excess, 
tea and coffee tend to produce nervousness, insomnia, pal- 
pitation of the heart, etc. 

The stimulating property of coffee and tea is due to 
caffeine. They also contain tannin, an astringent, which is 
drawn out by boiling and which is injurious to the digestive 
organs. Tea and coffee should not be given to children. 
Cocoa and chocolate contain protein, fat, and starch, hence 
have a food value in addition to the milk added in 
making a beverage. They form a valuable hot beverage 
for children. Cocoa also contains theobromine, which is of 
like nature to caffeine, but is a milder and less harmful 
stimulant. 

EXPERIMENT 53. (a) Pour 1 c. cold water on ts. tea. Let 
stand one-half hour. Strain and heat. 

(6) Pour 1 c. boiling water on ts. tea. Let stand three minutes 
in warm place. 

(c) Pour 1 c. boiling water on ts. tea and boil five minutes. 

(d) Put ts. tea in fine strainer (tea ball) and pour 1 c. boiling 
water through it. 

Compare results as to strength, flavor, color. Reserve part of 
each for the next test. 

EXPERIMENT 54. Fill four test tubes i full of each of the above 
solutions, add slowly to each a saturated solution of cupric 
acetate until the liquid is a light green. Boil. Allow the precipi- 
tates to settle and compare amounts. This will indicate the relative 
amounts of tannin present. Which of the above methods should 
be used in making tea ? Which avoided ? 

EXPERIMENT 55. (a) Pour c. boiling water through 1 tb. 
fine coffee placed in a fine strainer, or in cheesecloth. 

(6) Boil 1 tb. coffee and c. water ten minutes. 

Compare results as to flavor and strength. Test results of (a) and 
(6) as in Experiment 54 for tannin. 



WATER AND BEVERAGES 119 

EXPERIMENT 56. (a) Pour ^ c. boiling water on \ ts. tea. 

(6) Pour \ c. hot water on \ ts. tea. 

Let both stand five minutes. Compare strength, color, flavor. 
Which is the best solvent for tea, hot or boiling water ? Are there 
tea leaves floating on the surface when the hot water is used ? When 
boiling water is used? 

NOTE. Students bring cost price of several leading brands of 
tea, coffee, chocolate, and cocoa. 

Cost of Tea. Weigh \ Ib. tea. Measure the number of 
teaspoonfuls it contains. Estimate the number of cups of 
tea that may be prepared from 1 Ib. Estimate cost per cup 
of teas of different prices. 

Cost of Coffee. Weigh out \ Ib. coffee. Measure the 
number of tablespoonfuls in it. Estimate the number of 
cups of coffee that may be prepared from 1 Ib. Estimate 
cost per cup of different priced coffees. 

Coffee. The coffee tree is native to Abyssinia, but is 
now grown in all tropical countries. The coffee bean is the 
seed of the tree and is found in the cherry like fruit. When 
the fruit begins to shrivel on the trees, it is shaken to the 
ground, is then dried, and the seeds separated by wooden 
rollers. The green coffee berry has but little flavor, but 
when roasted a characteristic flavor and odor are developed. 

Care of Coffeepot. Never put the coffee or tea pot in 
the water in which other dishes have been washed. Have 
a small mop kept especially for the coffeepot. After using, 
empty the pot, and with clear hot water thoroughly wash 
the pot and spout, with the aid of the mop. Twice a week 
fill the pot with cold water, add 1 tb. washing soda, and boil 
about ten minutes. Rinse well. Never let the brown sedi- 
ment accumulate in a coffeepot, or the flavor of the finest 
coffee will be ruined. 



120 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Boiled Coffee 

c. coffee | egg 

| c. cold water 3 c. boiling water 

Scald a granite ware coffeepot. Wash egg, break, and beat 
slightly. Add the egg and shell and half the cold water to the coffee. 
Put into the coffeepot, pour on the boiling water. Place on front 
of range and boil slowly three to five minutes. Pour some of the cof- 
fee into a cup to free the spout from grounds, return to the coffee- 
pot, and repeat. Add remaining cold water, which being heavier 
than hot water sinks to the bottom carrying the grounds with it, 
and completes the process of clearing. Place on the back of the 
range, where it will not boil, for ten minutes. Three eggshells 
may be used in place of 1 egg. For after-dinner coffee use twice the 
amount of coffee given in this recipe. 

Filtered Coffee 

Use a French coffeepot. Scald it with hot water. Put 2 round- 
ing tb. powdered coffee in the bag and pour over it 1 pt. freshly 
boiling water. Keep the pot hot until the water has filtered through ; 
pour it off and turn back through the filter again. Less tannin 
is extracted by this method than by boiling. 

Tea. Black tea comes from China, India, and Ceylon. 
Some of the familiar brands are Oolong, English Breakfast, 
Formosa, and Orange Pekoe. Black tea is made from the 
leaves which have been allowed to ferment by exposure to 
the air before curing. 

The best green tea comes from Japan. Some of the familiar 
brands are Gunpowder, Hyson, and Japan. Green tea is 
made from young leaves of the tea plant, dried quickly by 
artificial heat. Both black and green tea may be made 
from the same plant, according to the method of curing. 

Tea leaves are rich in protein, but when taken as an in- 
fusion act as a stimulant rather than a nutrient. The tannic 



WATER AND BEVERAGES 121 

acid developed from the tannin by infusion injures the coat- 
ing of the stomach. Tea should never be boiled nor steeped 
for any length of time, as the tannic acid will be extracted 
in greater amount. Freshly boiling water should always be 
used to pour on the tea. 

Tea 

Scald an earthen or china teapot. Put in 1 ts. tea and pour over 
it 1 pt. freshly boiling water. Let stand five minutes in a warm 
place. Serve immediately. 

Russian Tea 

Serve a slice of lemon in each cup of tea with sugar to taste. In 
Russia a preserved strawberry is added to each cup. A clove and 
a cherry may be put in each cup for afternoon tea. 

Cocoa and Chocolate. The cocoa tree is a native of Mex- 
ico ; it also grows in Central and South America and the West 
Indies. Cocoa and chocolate are both prepared from the 
seeds of the cocoa bean. The fruit is shaped like a large, thick 
cucumber, and contains from twenty to forty seeds. These 
are roasted like coffee. The husks or shells are taken off 
and used in that form as cocoa shells. The various prepara- 
tions of cocoa are made from the ground beans, from which 
the fat or oil has been extracted. Chocolate contains a 
larger proportion of fat, it is mixed with starch and pressed 
into cakes. 

Chocolate 

li sq. Baker's chocolate 1 c. water 

4 tb. sugar 3 c. milk 

Add water to the chocolate and stir over the fire till it boils ; 
add sugar and milk. Bring to the boiling point, boil five minutes, 
whipping with an egg-beater. Serve. 



122 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cocoa 

3 tb. prepared cocoa 2 c. boiling water 

4 tb. sugar 2 c. milk 

Mix sugar and cocoa, and add | c. of the boiling water to make a 
smooth paste. Add remaining water and let boil five minutes. 
Add the milk and when this is scalded, beat with an egg-beater 
for a few minutes and serve. 

NOTE. Interesting exhibits of cocoa and chocolate may be 
obtained from chocolate manufacturers. 

Cost of Cocoa. Measure the number of teaspoonfuls of 
cocoa in a box. Estimate the number of cups of cocoa it 
will make and the cost per cup, including the milk used. 
Estimate the cost per cup of chocolate. 



CHAPTER XIII 

LEAVENING BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Methods of Making Mixtures Light. 1. Incorporation of Air. 
Physical change. Air expands when heated. 
Methods: (a) By beating mixture. 

(b) By adding beaten eggs. 

2. Steam. 

Physical change. Steam occupies 1600 times more space than 

the water which produced it. 
Methods: (a) Moisture, as in pop-overs. 
(6) Snow pancakes. 

3. Fermentation. 

Chemical change. C0 2 liberated. 
Methods: (a) Yeast. 

(b) Salt-rising bread. 

4. Acid and Alkali. 

Chemical change. C0 2 liberated. 
Methods: (a) Baking powder. 

(6) Soda and an acid, as cream of tartar, sour 
milk, molasses. 

EXPERIMENT 57. Make a solution of \ ts. soda and \ c. water. 
Taste. Test with litmus paper. 

Name some of the properties of an alkali. Test various washing 
powders with litmus paper. Are they alkalies ? 

EXPERIMENT 58. Make a solution of 1 slightly rounding ts. 
of cream of tartar and \ c. water. Taste. Test with litmus paper. 
Name some of the properties of an acid. Test lemon, vinegar, 
molasses, etc., with litmus paper. Are they acids or alkalies? 

123 



124 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

EXPERIMENT 59. Put solutions of experiments 57 and 58 
together. What causes the effervescence ? Taste. Test with lit- 
mus paper. What effect have the acid and alkali had on each other ? 
Is the result acid or alkaline? What causes the salty taste? 
What is formed by the union of an acid and alkali? 

EXPERIMENT 60. Make a solution of alum and water. Taste. 
Test with litmus paper. Has the alum an acid or alkaline reaction ? 
Is it substituted for the cream of tartar or for the soda in baking 
powder? Add soda to the alum solution; what is the result? 
What effect did it have upon the tongue? Is alum a healthful 
ingredient in baking powder? 

EXPERIMENT 61. Test sour milk with litmus paper. Is it 
acid or alkaline ? Add a little soda ; what is the result ? Repeat 
with molasses, brown sugar, chocolate. 

EXPERIMENT 62. Mix baking powder with water; what is 
the result? Warm gently. Is the chemical action increased by 
heat? Test with litmus paper. Is the reaction either acid or 
alkaline? Taste. What has been formed by the union of soda 
and the acid ? 

EXPERIMENT 63. Pass the gas given off when soda and cream 
of tartar solutions are put together through limewater ; what gas 
is formed ? Test the gas given off when baking powder is moistened 
with water. What gas is generated when an acid is added to bicar- 
bonate of soda ? 

Baking Powders. Baking powder is composed of bi- 
carbonate of sodium, NaHCO 2 , which has in its composi- 
tion carbon dioxide and some acid. When the mixture is 
wet, the acid serves to liberate the carbon dioxide from 
the sodium bicarbonate. In order to keep those materials 
dry and to prevent chemical action from taking place before 
they are used, starch is added arid is called a " filler." 
In cheap baking powders the starch is added in very 
large amounts. The value of a baking powder depends 
upon the amount of gas it gives off. Its healthfulness 



LEAVENING BATTERS AND DOUGHS 125 

depends upon its freedom from injurious residue left in 
the food. 

There are three classes of baking powder upon the market : 

1. Cream of Tartar. 

2. Phosphate. 

3. Alum. 

Cream of tartar is potassium acid tartrate, KHC 4 H 4 6 . 
It is prepared from the argols which collect on the inside of 
wine casks. These are then refined and purified and known 
as cream of tartar. 

The chemical reaction of cream of tartar baking powder 
is as follows : 

potassium acid + bicarbonate = Rochelle + carbon + water 
tartrate of sodium salt dioxide 

HKH 4 C 4 6' 6 + NaHC0 3 = KNaC 4 H 4 6 + C0 2 + H 2 

There is left as a residue in a loaf of bread made from 
baking powder more Rochelle salt than is found in a Seidlitz 
powder ; but the amount eaten at any one time is so small 
as to have very little physiological effect. 

Cream of tartar is expensive, so cheaper forms of acid are 
often used in baking powders. 

Phosphate Baking Powders. The acid used is phosphoric 
acid, which is obtained by the action of sulphuric acid on 
ground bone. The phosphate probably has little power to 
furnish phosphate to the body, not being in a form in which 
the body can assimilate it. 

Alum Baking Powders. These are the most objection- 
able forms of baking powders, as their residue has an irri- 
tating effect upon the mucous membranes of the digestive 
organs. They are very cheap powders, so, unfortunately, 
they are extensively used. 



126 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Bicarbonate of sodium is obtained from common salt, is 
a very cheap product, and, therefore, is not adulterated. 

Proportions of acid and alkalies to be used in cooking : 

1 ts. soda and 2 slightly rounding ts. of cream of tartar for 1 qt. 

flour. 

2 ts. baking powder for each c. flour. 
1 ts. soda for 1 pt. thick sour milk. 

1 ts. soda to 1 c. molasses for batters. 

^ ts. soda to 1 c. molasses for a stiff dough. 

Baking powder may be substituted for cream of tartar 
and soda, in the proportion of 2 level ts. for each c. flour or 
meal. 

Reduce the amount of baking powder by \ ts. for each 
egg added to the mixture. 

Batters and Doughs. A batter is a mixture of flour and 
some liquid. 

A thin batter is made in the proportion of 1 scant measure 
of liquid to 1 full measure of flour. 

A drop batter or muffin mixture is in proportion of 1 scant 
measure of liquid to 2 full measures of flour. 

A dough is 1 measure of liquid to 3 scant measures of 
flour. 

A sponge is a drop batter to which yeast is added. 

Construction rule for baking powder mixtures: 

2 c. flour or 1 c. white and 1 c. rye, graham, etc. 

4 ts. baking powder ; reduce | ts. for each egg added. 

^ ts. salt. 

1 to 4 tb. shortening. 

1 scant c. milk. 

1 or 2 eggs, if desired. 

1 to 4 tb. sugar. 



LEAVENING BATTERS AND DOUGHS 127 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

2 c. flour 2 tb. lard or butter 

4 ts. baking powder 1 scant c. milk 

| ts. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Work in lard with tips of fingers ; 
add the milk gradually to form a soft dough, mixing with a knife. 
Toss on a floured board, roll lightly to f inch thickness. Cut in 
rounds. Bake in a very hot oven 12 to 15 minutes. 
For shortcake use 4 tb. shortening. 

Scones 

Make as baking powder biscuit, using 4 tb. shortening, and add- 
ing 1 beaten egg to the milk. Roll dough thin, cut, brush the top 
of each scone with a little melted butter, and sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon. Put a piece of citron or candied orange peel in 
center, and bake. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

2 c. flour I c. butter 

^ ts. salt 1 egg 

3^ ts. baking powder 1 scant c. milk 

2 sour apples 

Mix dry ingredients, rub in the butter, add milk and beaten 
egg. Spread ^ inch thick on a shallow pan. Pare and cut apples 
in sections lengthwise; lay in rows on the dough with the sharp 
edge pressed lightly into the dough. Sprinkle the top with 2 tb. 
sugar and j ts. cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven 25 to 30 minutes. 
Serve hot, with lemon sauce or with butter. 

Lemon Sauce 

2 c. hot water Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

1 c. sugar 2 tb. butter 

3 tb. cornstarch 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar. Stir slowly into the boiling 
water. Cook 10 minutes. Add the lemon and butter. Serve. 



128 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Pin-wheel Biscuit 

2 c. flour 2 tb. lard 

4 ts. baking powder | c. stoned raisins 

ts. salt 2 tb. chopped citron 

2 tb. sugar ts. cinnamon 

Mix as a baking powder biscuit dough. Roll \ inch thick. 
Brush with melted butter, sprinkle with the raisins cut fine, citron, 
sugar, and cinnamon. Roll like a jelly roll. Cut in slices 1 inch 
thick. Bake in a hot oven 15 minutes. Currants may be used in 
place of raisins and citron. 

Orange Shortcake 

Make a baking powder biscuit dough. Roll into a cake f inch 
thick and bake in a quick oven. Split carefully. Spread with 
butter. Spread with oranges cut in small pieces and sweetened. 
Put another layer of oranges on top of the cake or sprinkle top with 
powdered sugar. 

Corn Bread 

1 c. corn meal \ c. sugar 

1 c. flour 1 egg 

3| ts. baking powder 1 c. milk 

ts. salt 2 tb. melted butter 

Mix the dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg, and butter. 
Beat well. Bake in a shallow pan in a quick oven twenty minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Corn Meal Muffins 
Mix as corn bread, baking in muffin pans 25 minutes. 

Graham Gems 

1 c. graham flour 2 tb. butter, melted 

1 c. flour i c. molasses 

1 c. sour milk f ts. soda 

^ ts. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk to molasses, combine 
mixtures, and bake in hot muffin pans 25 to 30 minutes. 



LEAVENING BATTERS AND DOUGHS 129 

Rice Muffins 

3 c. flour 2 tb. sugar 
ts. salt 1 pt. milk 

5 ts. baking powder c. cooked rice 

2 eggs 2 tb. butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk to beaten eggs; stir 
into the mixture, beat well, and bake in hot, greased muffin pans 
25 minutes. 

Nut Bread 

4 c. flour 1 ts. salt 

7 ts. baking powder f c. brown sugar 

Mix well together and add 1 c. milk, to which has been added 
1 well-beaten egg. Add 1 c. chopped nut meats. Bake in a greased 
brick loaf pan f hour. 

Brown Nut Bread 

^ c. molasses 1 ts. salt 

1 ts. soda 1 ts. cream of tartar 

2 c. milk | c. sugar 

2 c. graham flour 1 c. nuts, chopped 

1% c. white flour 

Add the soda to the molasses and beat until it foams. Add 
milk, then the dry ingredients mixed together. Add the nuts. 
Fill pound baking powder cans, greased, one half full, cover, let 
rise one half hour ; bake f hour in a moderate oven. 

Boston Brown Bread 

1 c. rye meal 2 c. sour milk 

1 c. corn meal 2 ts. soda 

1 c. graham flour 1 ts. salt 

f c. molasses 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses and milk, beat well, 
put into well-buttered molds, and steam 4 or 5 hours. The cover 
should be buttered. Never fill the mold more than two thirds 
full. Baking powder cans or lard pails may be used for molds. 
Bake hour after taking from steamer. 



130 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Pop-overs 

1 c. flour 1 ssp. salt 

1 c. milk (scant) 1 egg 

Add milk slowly to salt and flour till a smooth paste is formed. 
Add remainder of milk and the egg. Beat the mixture well and 
bake in hot gem pans, filling them two thirds full. Bake 30 minutes. 
Have the oven very hot at first and then reduce temperature. If 
removed from the oven before they are thoroughly baked, they 
will fall. 

Gingerbread 

^ c. lard 3 c. flour 

Yolks of 1 or 2 eggs 1 ts. soda 

\ c. milk 2 ts. ginger 

\\ c. molasses \ ts. salt 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Mix in the order given, sifting the dry ingredients together, and 
folding in the beaten whites last. Bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes. Mixtures which contain molasses burn easily, so should 
be baked in a moderate oven. 

Griddle Cakes 

The griddle for baking cakes should be perfectly clean and 
smooth. If 1 or 2 tb. of melted shortening is added to the batter, 
the cakes may be cooked without using grease of any kind on the 
griddle. If grease is used, take a piece of salt pork, or tie a cloth 
on a short stick or fork, and grease with drippings or lard. Never 
leave pools of fat on the edge of the griddle to burn. Wipe off the 
griddle with a cloth after each baking. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 
2| c. flour 2 c. sour milk 

\ ts. salt 1 egg 

1 ts. soda 

Sift dry ingredients ; add sour milk and well-beaten egg. Drop 
by spoonfuls on a hot greased griddle. When full of bubbles, turn 
and bake the other side. 



LEAVENING BATTERS AND DOUGHS 131 

Bread Griddle Cakes 

1 pt. stale bread crumbs 1 pt. milk, scalded 

2 tb. butter 

Pour the hot milk over the crumbs and butter and soak till soft. 
Add 1 beaten egg, 1 c. flour, ^ ts. salt, 2 ts. baking powder. Cold 
milk to thin if necessary. Bake on a hot griddle. 

Waffles 

1 pt. flour 2 eggs 

3 ts. baking powder 1^ c. milk 

\ ts. salt 2 tb. butter, melted 

Mix in order given, adding milk with the beaten yolks, then 
butter, and last fold in the beaten whites. Bake in hot waffle pans. 

Caramel Syrup 

Melt 1 c. granulated sugar till a light brown, but do not let it 
burn. Add 1 c. boiling water and simmer 10 minutes. Serve with 
waffles or hot cakes. 

Sugar Syrup 

1 c. sugar f c. water 

Boil together slowly for 10 minutes and serve with hot cakes. 
One tb. lemon juice may be added. 



CHAPTER XIV 

BREADS 

NOTE. Student write a paper giving the history of bread 
making; varieties of bread used by different nations; primitive 
and modern methods of milling ; commercial importance of wheat, 
of flour, and of the different cereals used for bread making ; world's 
production of wheat. 

SECTION OF GRAIN OP WHEAT 




(a) Skins and testa (bran). (d) Endosperm. 

(fe) Membrane (bran). (e) Cerealin or aleurone layer. 

(c) Embryo. (/) Scutellum. 

Wheat. The wheat plant belongs to the grass family. 
The part that is used for food is the fruit or seed. This 
consists of three parts : 

(1) The germ, or embryo, which is the part of the seed 
that reproduces. It is composed of cellulose, protein, 
sugar, and a large proportion of fat. 

(2) The kernel, or endosperm, which is the central part of 
the grain. It consists of a cellular structure, which holds 
the starch granules, some protein, and sugar. 

132 



BREADS 133 

(3) The bran or outer covering, which is composed largely 
of cellulose and mineral matter, and contains a pigment or 
coloring matter. The bran forms a protective covering for 
the wheat grain and is made up of six layers. The five outer 
layers contain little but cellulose and mineral matter, but 
the innermost layer consists of rectangular cells filled with a 
protein called cerealin, or aleurone, and is the part of the 
grain which is richest in protein. 

In the early methods of milling, this layer was removed 
with the bran, but the modern methods make it possible to 
separate the outer bran layer, retaining the aleurone layer, 
thus making what is known as entire wheat flour. 

Graham flour is made by grinding all of the wheat with 
the exception of the embryo. It thus contains the bran. 
It is useful when coarse food is needed to stimulate the action 
of the large intestine to prevent constipation. The bran 
itself may be made into cookies, etc., and eaten for this 
purpose. 

Protein in Wheat. Wheat is the most important grain 
used for bread making on account of the physical properties 
of two of its proteins, called gliadin and glutenin. When 
mixed with water, these substances unite to form gluten. 
Gluten has the power of absorbing nearly three times its 
weight of water and forming a tough, sticky, elastic mass. 
When carbon dioxide is produced in dough, it seeks to 
escape, but is retained by the expansion of the elastic gluten, 
thus causing the dough to rise. 

Wheat is known as spring wheat and winter wheat. The 
spring wheat is planted in the spring and ripens or matures 
in the late summer. It is grown mainly in the northwestern 
parts of the United States and in the Canadian Northwest. 
The flour made from spring wheat is the best for bread 
making and for all forms of yeast mixtures. 



134 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Winter wheat is planted in the fall and it ripens in the 
early summer. It is grown in the sections of the country 
where the winters are less severe than in the Northwest, 
in Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, etc., and in more southern lati- 
tudes. It is a softer wheat than spring wheat and makes a 
whiter flour, which is used for cakes, pastry, etc. 

NOTE. (a) Plant wheat in wet cotton, keeping it moist until 
the wheat plant grows. Note changes from time to time in the 
appearance of the wheat. Student write description of the sprout- 
ing of the wheat grain, using any standard botany for reference. 

(6) Examine a section of wheat under the microscope, noting 
bran coats, aleurone layer, endosperm, and embryo. Stain a sec- 
tion of the wheat with iodine, which will turn the starch purple 
and the protein yellow. Make drawing of a section of wheat. 
Why has nature stored so many food principles in this little grain 
of wheat ? 

(c) Examine winter wheat and spring wheat flour, whole wheat 
flour, graham flour. Sift and examine the residue, if any, in the 
sieve. Compare color, texture, cohesion (press in hand). 

To determine the composition of wheat flour. 

EXPERIMENT 64. Make a small amount of flour into a stiff 
dough. Put into a piece of fine cheesecloth and knead in a bowl 
of cold water until only a sticky mass is left in the cloth. Collect 
this. Note its physical properties. Work with the fingers for 
some minutes. Does the gluten become more elastic with knead- 
ing? Give one reason for kneading bread dough. Form part 
of the gluten into a ball and bake. What is the effect of heat 
upon it? 

EXPERIMENT 65. Test some of the gluten from the above ex- 
periment to see if it is protein ? starch ? sugar ? See identification 
test for protein, page 69 ; for starch, page 21 ; for sugar, page 44. 

EXPERIMENT 66. Boil some of the water in which the flour 
from experiment 64 was washed. Cool and test for starch. 

EXPERIMENT 67. Let starch settle to bottom of the bowl in 
cup. Remove some of the clear top liquid and test for sugar. 



BREADS 



135 



EXPERIMENT 68. (To be performed by the teacher.) Mix 
a little dry flour with ether, chloroform, or benzine. Filter, let- 
ting the filtrate drop on clean glass. Let the liquid evaporate. 
What is left on the glass ? 

CAUTION. The fumes of chloroform, ether, and benzine are very 
inflammable. Do not use with fire or light burning in the room. 

EXPERIMENT 69. Burn a little flour in a porcelain crucible for 
several hours, or until only a white ash is left. What part of the 
flour is this ? 

Yeast. (Review plant classification, page 50.) 




Yeast Plant (magnified), showing method of reproduction. 

Yeast is a single-celled plant that grows by budding, 
and requires sugar, some protein, and mineral matter for its 
nourishment. It is found floating in the air and settles on 
substances rich in sugar, where it grows and causes a chemi- 
cal change in the substance upon which it is feeding, called 
fermentation. This is the change which takes place when 



136 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

grape juice is changed to wine, when cider becomes " hard," 
or when " salt rising " bread is made. 

Yeast is obtained in a pure form for commercial purposes 
from distilleries or breweries. The top yeast which floats 
on the surface of the fermenting liquid, or wort, is skimmed 
off and its impurities removed. It is then mixed with some 
starch, pressed, cut into cakes, wrapped in tin foil, and sold 
as " compressed " yeast. When mixed with corn meal and 
dried, it is sold as " dry yeast." The- yeast cells of dry yeast 
are not as active as those of compressed yeast and take longer 
to raise bread. 

Fermentation is a chemical change in an organic substance, 
caused by the growth within that substance of some ferment, 
as yeast. There are different varieties of ferments, each of 
which causes a different form of fermentation to take place. 

Alcoholic fermentation is caused by the growing of the 
yeast plant, which feeds upon sugar, changing it to alcohol 
and carbon dioxide. This is the fermentation that takes 
place in bread making. 

Acetic fermentation is caused by a ferment which changes 
the alcohol formed during alcoholic fermentation into 
acetic acid. 

It occurs when alcoholic fermentation is allowed to go on 
for too great a length of time, or when the mixture is raised 
to a temperature above 90 F., as when hard cider turns to 
vinegar or bread dough sours. 

Lactic fermentation is the change that takes place when 
milk sours. The lactic bacillus feeds upon the sugar of the 
milk and changes it to lactic acid ; this acid causes the casein 
to coagulate and the milk is " sour." 

When milk is used for bread dough, it should be scalded 
to destroy the lactic bacilli, thus preventing souring of the 
milk during the rising, which might cause sour bread. 



BREADS 137 

Chemical reactions in bread making : 

dextrose 

starch water or sugar 

C 6 Hio0 5 + a ferment + H 2 = C 6 Hi 2 6 

carbon 

Alcoholic fermentation: alcohol dioxide 

C 6 H 12 6 + yeast = 2 C 2 H 5 OH + 2 C0 2 

Acetic fermentation : 

alcohol oxygen acetic acid water 

2 C 2 H 5 OH + 4 + a ferment = 2 CH 3 COOH + 2 H 2 

Experiments with yeast. 

EXPERIMENT 70. Mix a small amount of yeast with water. 

(a) Put a drop on a glass slide, cover with a glass, and examine 
under the microscope, first with a low power and then with a high 
power. Make a drawing. 

(6) Stain the slide with a little iodine and examine again. What 
color do the yeast cells become when they are stained with 
iodine ? The starch cells ? What kind of starch was used in the 
yeast cake ? 

EXPERIMENT 71. Make a solution of glucose and water, or 
molasses and water. Add some yeast. Let stand an hour or two 
in a warm place. Examine a drop under the microscope. How 
does the yeast cell reproduce ? 

EXPERIMENT 72. Make a solution of glucose and water. 
Add some yeast. Put equal amounts in three test tubes. 

(a) Boil the contents of one tube. 

(6) Put one tube in a cold place or on ice. 

(c) Keep one tube at temperature of 80 F. At the end of an 
hour or two, examine the contents of the tubes, noting any fermen- 
tation that may have occurred. Draw conclusions as to the best 
temperature for the growing of the yeast plant. 

Warm (6) to a temperature of 80 F. and let stand for an hour 
or two. Does cold destroy the life of the yeast? Does boiling 
destroy it? 



138 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

EXPERIMENT 73. Put a solution of glucose, water, and yeast 
in a flask. Keep it warm until it ferments. Pass the gas through 
limewater. What change occurs in the limewater ? What gas is 
given off during alcoholic fermentation ? 

Proportion of ingredients in bread making. 

To every quart of wetting (milk and water) use : 

1 cake yeast dissolved in f c. lukewarm water, 
or 1 c. liquid yeast. 

2 ts. salt. 

2 tb. or more of sugar. 

In white bread use just enough sugar to replace the sugar of the 
flour lost during alcoholic fermentation ; in other breads use sugar 
as desired for a flavor. 

Two tb. shortening (lard or butter). 

The amount of shortening may be increased for rolls or when 
a rich fancy dough is desired. For simple breads shortening 
may be omitted entirely. 

Flour to form a soft dough. 

If spring wheat flour is used, a smaller quantity will be required 
than would be needed of winter wheat. From two and a half 
to three times as much flour as liquid should be used, which in- 
cludes the flour used on the board in kneading. With dark- 
colored flour, use about one-third white flour and the remainder 
dark flour. Doughs made with graham or entire wheat flour, 
which contain a large amount of gluten, are not made stiff 
enough to knead, but are well beaten with a spoon before being 
put to rise. 

Kneading. Bread is kneaded twice, the first time to 
incorporate the ingredients thoroughly, thus insuring an 
even texture, and also to make the gluten elastic so as to 
retain the carbon dioxide formed during fermentation. It 
should be kneaded until smooth and elastic, and until little 



BREADS 139 

blisters may be seen on the surface of the dough. After the 
bread has risen until it is about double in size, it is kneaded 
again, but very lightly, the object being to break the large 
bubbles of C0 2 present, in order that the loaf may be fine- 
grained and to form the dough into the desired shape with- 
out losing its lightness. It is then placed in the pan to rise 
until light enough to bake. 

Baking of Bread. Bread is baked 

(1) To kill the yeast plant. 

(2) To hydrolize the starch granules. 

(3) To soften the cellulose. 

(4) To drive off the alcohol, CO 2 , and excess of moisture. 

(5) To dextrinize the starch, thus forming a crust of sweet, 
agreeable flavor. 

All bread should be thoroughly baked. If there is any 
doubt as to its being done, let it continue baking, as long 
baking makes it wholesome. The oven should be hot 
enough to turn a piece of paper a light brown in five minutes. 
After placing the loaf in the oven, increase the heat gradually 
for ten minutes, then decrease slowly until the end of the 
baking. The oven should turn a piece of paper a dark 
brown in five minutes when rolls are to be baked. 

Raw Potato Yeast 

i c. flour 1 to 2 qts. boiling water 

I c. sugar 1 cake compressed yeast 

1 tb. salt or 1 c. liquid yeast 

3 raw potatoes 

Pare potatoes and keep in cold water. Mix flour, sugar, and 
salt in a large bowl, and grate the potato in as quickly as possible. 
Mix at once with wooden spoon. Pour the boiling water directly 
from the teakettle, stirring constantly and adding enough water 
to make the mixture the consistency of thin starch. If it does 



140 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

not thicken, bring the mixture to the boiling point. Strain, and let 
cool. When lukewarm add yeast; if compressed, dissolve in 1 c. 
water. Keep mixture in warm (not hot) place till light. Beat 
well several times. At the end of 24 hours, put in earthen or glass 
jars, cover tightly, and put in a cool place. This will keep two 
weeks. Save the last cupful to start fresh yeast. 

White Bread 

1 pt. milk 2 tb. sugar 

2 tb. lard 2 ts. salt 

Put into a bowl and pour on them 1 pt. boiling water. When 
lukewarm, add 1 cake yeast dissolved in f c. lukewarm water, or 1 
c. liquid yeast. Add flour to make a soft dough. Knead on a 
floured board. Put into a greased bowl to rise, greasing the top 
of the dough to prevent a crust forming. Cover closely and let 
rise until it doubles in size, keeping the dough at a temperature of 
from 80 to 85 F. Knead again and shape into loaves. Let rise 
in the pan from ^ to f hours. It should not quite double in size. 
Bake 50 or 60 minutes, or until the loaf is a rich brown and emits 
a hollow sound when tapped on the bottom. Brush the loaf with 
milk. Let stand exposed to the air on all sides to allow the steam 
to escape. Put it into a freshly scalded bread jar, cover, but do 
not wrap in a cloth. 

Parker House Rolls 

1 pt. milk scalded 2 tb. sugar 

2 tb. butter 1 ts. salt 

When lukewarm, add cake yeast dissolved in \ c. water. Add 
flour to make a batter. Beat well. Add 1 beaten egg, and flour 
to make a dough. Knead and let rise till light. Shape into rolls, 
handling the dough as little as possible. Let rise in the pan about 
1 hour or until very light. Bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. 
Brush with milk or butter. The egg may be omitted. 

Rolls may also be made from bread dough. They take their 
name from the different forms in which they are shaped. 



BREADS 141 

Entire Wheat Bread 

1 pt. milk scalded \ c. sugar 

1 ts. salt or c. molasses 

When lukewarm, add cake yeast dissolved in c. water. 
Add 4f c. entire wheat flour or enough to make a soft dough. 
Beat well, cover, and let rise until it doubles in size. Beat down 
and pour into greased bread pans. Let rise till light and bake 1 
hour in a moderate oven. It should not quite double in bulk during 
the last rising. 

Graham Bread 

1 pt. milk scalded | cake yeast dissolved in c. 

4 tb. sugar water 

1 ts. salt 2 c. white flour 

3 to 3| c. sifted Graham flour 

Mix in the order given into a dough a little softer than for white 
bread. Beat well, let rise till light or till it doubles in size. Stir 
down. Pour into greased pans, let rise hour, and bake a little 
longer and in a more moderate oven than for white bread. Whole 
wheat may be used in place of Graham flour. 

Rye Bread 

1 pt. scalded milk \ cake compressed yeast dis- 

2 tb. butter solved in \ c. water 
2 tb. sugar 2 c. white flour 

1 ts. salt Rye flour till stiff enough to 

knead 

Mix in the order given, knead, let rise till light, and double in 
size, knead lightly, shape into loaves. Let rise in the pan till light, 
bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 c. oatmeal J- c. sugar 

3 c. boiling water 1 cake compressed yeast dis- 
1 tb. lard solved in 1 c. water 

\\ ts. salt Flour to make dough 



142 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Scald oatmeal with boiling water, add lard, sugar, and salt, and 
when lukewarm the dissolved yeast. Add flour to make a dough 
stiff enough so that the spoon will stand upright in it. Beat well 
as the flour is added. Let rise 2 to 3 hours or until it doubles in 
size. Beat down, put into greased bread pans, let rise about \ 
hour or until light. Bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

To Ascertain the Cost of Bread : 

Price of pastry flour (winter wheat) 

Price of bread flour (spring wheat) 

Price of bread flour per pound 

Number of pounds required to make recipe for white bread 

Cost of other ingredients 

Total cost 

Number of loaves made 

Cost per loaf 

Weight of loaf 

Cost per loaf of baker's bread 

Weight of loaf of baker's bread 



CHAPTER XV 
FATS FRYING, AND PASTRY 

Sources of fat. 

1. Adipose tissue of animals, as beef fat, suet, etc. 

2. Bone marrow. 

3. Milk. Fat globules are held in suspension in the milk serum. 
(See Milk, page 108.) 

4. Some vegetables. Some vegetables contain a small amount 
of fat, but they do not form an important source of fat in the 
diet. 

5. Some fruits and seeds. The olive is an important source of 
fat, furnishing olive oil. The seed of the cotton plant furnishes an 
important commercial oil, cottonseed oil. 

6. Nuts. Nuts contain a large amount of fat. The oil of 
peanuts and cocoanuts furnish important commercial forms of oil. 

Fats are composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 
They contain a larger amount of carbon and hydrogen than 
do carbohydrates, hence have a greater fuel value. 





CARBON 


HYDROGEN 


OXYGEN 


Carbohydrates .... 
Fats 


44.4% 
765% 


6.2% 
11 9% 


49.4% 
11.5% 











One pound of fat yields approximately two and one 
fourth times as much heat and energy as one pound of car- 
bohydrates, hence forms a valuable food in cold climates. 

143 



144 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Fats are composed of fatty acids and glycerine. Among 
the fatty acids are : 

1. Stearic acid of stearin. 

2. Palmatic acid of palmatin. 

3. Oleic acid of olein. 

One or more of these acids are found in all fats in combina- 
tion with glycerine. The fatty acid which predominates 
gives the characteristic to the fat. 

Fats may be split up into fatty acids and glycerine by 

(1) Being heated in very hot steam. 

stearin glycerine stearic acid 

(C 17 H 35 2 )3C 3 H5 + 3H 2 = C 3 H 5 (OH) 3 + 3C 17 H 35 COOH 

(2) Bacterial action, as when fats become rancid. 

(3) Action of fat-splitting enzymes of the digestive fluids. 

(4) Action of strong alkalies, as in soap making. 

(5) Action of high temperature, as in frying. 

Fats are insoluble in water, but are soluble in ether, 
chloroform, gasoline, etc. To remove grease spots from 
clothing, moisten the spot with any of the above solvents 
and rub lightly until dry. The solvent will dissolve the 
grease and thus free the dust which may have adhered to it. 
This cleaning process should always be carried on in the open 
air and away from any flame, as the fumes of gasoline, etc., 
are very inflammable when mixed with air and ignite easily, 
often causing serious accidents. 

Emulsion. When fat is divided into minute globules 
which are held in suspension in a liquid, it is said to be 
in emulsion. This is a physical state and is readily broken 
down. The most perfect example of an emulsion is the 
suspension of the fat globules in fresh milk. The emulsion 
is but temporary and the fat rises to the surface in the form 
of cream. 



FATS FRYING, AND PASTRY 145 

Saponification. When fat is heated with a strong alkali, 
it is split up into fatty acid and glycerine, the alkali uniting 
with the acid and forming a soap, and the glycerine being 
set free. This reaction is called saponification and may be 
expressed by the following formula : 

sodium sodium 

palmatin + hydrate = palmitate + glycerine 
3i0 2 )3 + 3NaOH = 3NaCi 6 H 3 i0 2 + C 3 H 5 (OH) 3 



The soap is soluble in water. This reaction is made use 
of in household cleaning when a strong alkali as soda, lye, 
borax, etc., is added to " cut the grease." 

An excellent soap may be made in the household from 
fats left in cooking combined with a strong alkali, such as 
concentrated lye. All fats or drippings left from cooking 
should, therefore, be saved for soap making. Full directions 
for making soap are given with the lye purchased for soap 
making. 

FRYING 

Frying is cooking by rmmersion in hot fat at a tempera- 
ture of from 350 to 400 F. Lard, olive oil, beef suet, beef 
drippings, or some commercial forms of fat may be used. 
The fat should be so hot that it will instantly coagulate the 
albumen on the outside of the article, forming a coating to 
keep the fat from soaking in. All articles which do not 
contain egg in sufficient quantity must be rolled in fat-proof 
coating. Lard boils at 585 F., so for cooking purposes fat 
does not boil. The ebullition which takes place is due to 
water in the article fried being converted into steam. Too 
many articles should not be placed in the fat at one time, 
as they will cool the fat. The articles should not be too 
cold, as that will also cool the fat. All fried food should be 
perfectly drained by holding over the kettle of fat and 



146 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

shaking gently, and then laid on brown paper. Raw potato 
absorbs the unpleasant odors or gases of fat, and collects 
some of the sediment, so a few slices should be put in 
both before and after frying. After using fat, allow it to 
cool slightly, then pour it through a cheesecloth put over 
a strainer. It may thus be used several times. When 
several articles are to be fried, fry them in the follow- 
ing order : potatoes, batter mixtures, breaded articles, fish. 

Objections to Frying as a Method of Cooking. 

1. Articles may be grease-soaked. 

2. High temperature necessary for frying splits fat up into fatty 
acid and glycerine. Fatty acid is irritating to organs of digestion. 
Glycerine is farther split up by heat into acrolein, which gives the 
disagreeable odor to hot fat and which is also very irritating to the 
mucous membranes of the digestive organs. 

Burning Point. The higher the burning point of a 
fat, the more valuable is the fat for frying purposes, as it 
will retain a greater amount of heat before it carbonizes. 
Butter has a low burning point, hence carbonizes easily and 
is a poor fat to use for frying. 

EXPERIMENT 74. Take temperature of fat when it begins to 
heat with a laboratory thermometer that will register 450 F. 
Note temperature of fat when it bubbles. What is the cause of 
the bubbling? Heat until it stops bubbling and begins to smoke. 
Note temperature. Drop in a slice of potato. What causes the 
bubbling in the fat? What is the temperature of fat when it is 
hot enough for frying ? Note odor of acrolein. 

EXPERIMENT 75. Heat in separate pans small amounts of 
butter, lard, cottolene, and other commercial fats. Which burns 
most easily? Which has the highest burning point? 

Cost of Fat for Frying. When making doughnuts put a 
definite weight of lard and any fats used locally for frying, 
in kettles of the same size. Fry an equal number of dough- 



FATS FRYING, AND PASTRY 147 

nuts in each. Weigh the lard and the other fats which are 
left after frying, computing the amount and cost of the 
fats used. Estimate the cost of frying a dozen doughnuts 
in each kind of fat. 

Rule for testing fat. When the fat begins to smoke, drop 
in an inch cube of bread from the soft part of the loaf. If it 
browns in forty seconds the temperature is right for frying 
any cooked mixture, as croquettes; if it browns in sixty 
seconds it is right for uncooked mixtures, as doughnuts. 

Fried Potatoes 

Wash and pare potatoes. Slice thinly on a vegetable slicer into 
a bowl of ice water. Let stand an hour, drain, and dry between 
towels. Fry in hot fat, stirring while frying to make them brown 
evenly. When a light brown put into a colander. Sprinkle lightly 
with salt. 

French Fried Potatoes 

Select small potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare, and cut into 
eighths lengthwise. Soak 1 hour in cold water. Dry well and fry 
in hot fat until the center of the potato is cooked. Drain well in a 
colander or on brown paper. Sprinkle with salt, and serve. 

Doughnuts 

Yolks of 4 eggs or 2 whole eggs \ ts. salt 

1 c. sugar \ ts. each cinnamon and nutmeg 

3 tb. melted butter Flour to make a dough just 
\ c. milk and \ c. water stiff enough to handle, about 

4 ts. baking powder 4 c. 

To the beaten eggs add sugar and butter. Beat well, add water 
and milk, then 2 c. flour sifted with the baking powder, salt, and 
spices. Add more flour till of the right consistency. Toss one 
third of the mixture on a floured board. Knead lightly. Roll to \ 
inch or more in thickness. Cut with a doughnut cutter and fry in 
deep fat. Drain well. 



148 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Doughnuts should come quickly to the top of the fat, brown 
slightly on one side, then be turned to brown on the other. If the 
fat is not hot enough, they will absorb fat ; if too hot, they will 
brown before sufficiently risen. When they are slightly cool, put 
them in a paper bag, one at a time, with 3 or 4 tb. powdered sugar, 
and shake gently to coat them with sugar. 

Crullers 

I c. butter 4 c. .flour, or enough to 

1 c. sugar make dough 

2 eggs, beaten separately 4 ts. baking powder 
1 c. milk \ ts. nutmeg 

Powdered sugar and cinnamon 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, beaten yolks and beaten 
whites. Mix dry ingredients, add alternately with the milk. Put 
on floured board, roll thin, and cut in pieces two by three inches. 
Cut 3 or 4 parallel incisions, run finger in and out of them, and 
drop into deep fat. Fry the same as doughnuts, and roll in 
powdered sugar and cinnamon. 

Potato Croquettes 

1 pt. hot mashed potatoes ^ ts. celery salt 

2 tb. butter ^ tb. grated onion 

^ ts. salt 1 tb. minced parsley 

Cayenne and black pepper Yolks of 1 or 2 eggs 

to taste 

Mix all but the egg and beat till very light. When slightly cool 
add beaten egg. Shape into balls. Roll in fat-proof coating and 
fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper. Serve hot. 

Veal Croquettes 

Chop cold veal fine. Season highly with salt, celery salt, 
cayenne, lemon juice and parsley. Moisten 1| c. of the veal with 
1 c. thick cream sauce. (Page 24.) Spread out the mixture on a 



FATS FRYING, AND PASTRY 149 

plate and allow it to become perfectly cold. Shape into cylinders, or 
pear shaped mounds, roll in fat-proof coating, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain and serve hot. 

Chicken, salmon, lobster, sweetbread, or any meat croquettes 
are prepared in same manner. 

Fat-proof Coating 

Roll the article to be fried in fine sifted bread crumbs, then dip 
in egg slightly beaten with 1 tb. water, roll again in crumbs. If 
not perfectly coated the article may crack in frying. 

To prepare Crumbs 

Dry pieces of bread in the oven without browning, roll or put 
them through the meat chopper and sift. Put into fruit jars to be 
ready for use. 

Bread crumbs make a richer brown than cracker crumbs. 

Fritter Batter 

1 c. flour Whites of 2 eggs 

I ts. salt Yolks of 2 eggs 

| c. milk or water 1 tb. melted butter or olive oil 

Mix salt and flour. Add milk gradually, yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick, butter, and beaten whites of the eggs. If intended for 
fruit, add 1 ts. sugar ; if for oysters or tripe, add 1 tb. lemon juice. 

Banana Fritters 
4 bananas Powdered sugar 

1 tb. lemon juice 

Remove skins from bananas, cut in halves lengthwise and then 
across. Sprinkle with sugar and lemon and let stand. Dip in 
fritter batter, fry in deep fat, drain, and serve hot with lemon sauce. 

Fried Fish 

Clean and dry the fish, and bone it. Rub with salt and pepper. 
Cut into pieces suitable for serving, roll in fat-proof coating and fry 
in deep fat 5 to 7 m. Drain and serve with tomato, tartar, or any 
acid sauce. 



150 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cheese Croquettes 

Whites of 3 eggs 1 ssp. mustard 

1 c. grated cheese Speck of cayenne 

Beat the whites very stiff, stir in the cheese and seasoning. 
Let stand in a cold place till stiff enough to mold. Make into small 
balls the size of a hickory nut and fry in hot fat. Serve with salad. 

PASTRY 

While the materials which are used in making pastry are 
wholesome and nutritious, they are combined in a form 
which makes them somewhat difficult to digest, so pastry 
should be used sparingly in the diet. 

The requisites for good pastry are that it shall be tender, 
flaky, and light. The first quality will depend upon the 
amount and the kind of fat used, upon the manner in which 
the pastry is handled in mixing and rolling, and upon the 
amount of water used in making the dough. If but little 
water is used, the gliadin and glutinin of the flour do not 
unite to form as tough a gluten, and the pastry is more 
tender. It was noted in bread making that working the 
dough made the gluten elastic, and as this is not desired in 
pastry making, the dough should be handled as little and as 
lightly as possible. 

The flaky quality of the pastry will depend upon the num- 
ber of layers of flour and fat that are formed in the dough 
by the methods of rolling and folding. The shortening used 
should be very cold and firm, so that it will not soften and 
mix with the flour. All pastry is improved if the dough is 
placed in a napkin and put near the ice for some time before 
being rolled into shape for baking. 

The lightness of the pastry will depend upon the amount 
of air incorporated in the dough in folding, and its expan- 



FATS FRYING, AND PASTRY 151 

sion in baking. A small amount of baking powder is some- 
times added to the flour before making it into dough. 

Winter wheat flour should be used, as it contains less gluten 
than spring wheat flour and makes a more tender crust. 

Shortening for Pastry 

1. Butter. This makes a crisp, brown, somewhat hara 
crust. It is used in making puff paste and may be mixed 
with other fats for ordinary pastry. 

2. Lard. This makes a soft, white, and tender crust. 

3. Beef suet. When properly tried out, this is a good 
and an inexpensive form of fat. 

4. Many commercial forms of fat mixtures may be used. 

To render fat. Cut beef suet or leaf fat from pork into 
small pieces. Soak in cold salted water for several hours. 
Drain off water and heat fat slowly until the fat separates 
out and the connective tissue browns slightly. Drain 
through a cheese cloth placed over a colander. Press to 
remove all fat. 

NOTE TO STUDENT. Why is the fat soaked in salted water ? 
Weigh fat and estimate cost per pound. Compare cost with cur- 
rent market price of lard. 

AMOUNT OF SHORTENING FOR PASTRY 

Flour Shortening 

Puff Paste 2 c. 1 c. butter 

Pastry 2 c. c. shortening 

Plain Pastry 2 c. J c. shortening 

Use | ts. salt to 2 c. flour. 

i ts. baking powder may be added to flour. 

1^ c. flour makes one large pie with a double crust. 



152 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Pastry 

1| c. flour ts. salt 

^ c. shortening Ice water to make stiff dough 

Sift the salt with the flour, add one half the shortening, and with 
a knife cut it into pieces about the size of a pea. Add the ice water 
gradually, lifting with a knife that portion which was moistened 
first and put it on a floured board, or push to one side of the bowl. 
Wet another portion, and so continue until all is moistened, using 
just enough water to hold it together. Dredge the dough on the 
board with flour, roll lightly from you into a long strip. Put the 
remainder of the shortening cut in small pieces over the top of the 
strip, sprinkle lightly with flour and fold it up toward the center. 
Roll again into a long strip and roll this up like a jelly roll. Cut 
from the roll enough paste for a crust, roll to fit the pan, place on 
the ungreased pie tin, fulling it slightly as pastry shrinks in baking. 
Trim the edges with a knife as far over the outside edge of the pan 
as possible. Put in the filling, rounding it a little in the center. 

Roll the upper crust.' While it is still on the board, make 
perforations to let the steam escape during the baking. Lay the 
upper crust on the pie by lifting it on the rolling pin, fold back 
one half, wet the edge of the lower crust, put the upper half 
back on it. Trim the upper crust, pressing the edges lightly 
together. 

Pies baked without an upper crust should have a double rim. 
Roll paste into long pieces, and cut strips about one inch and a 
quarter wide ; fit neatly on the rim of under crust before filling the 
pie. Perforated tins may be used for baking pies, thus insuring 
a well-baked under crust. Pastry should be thoroughly cooked and 
well browned. Pies require from thirty to forty-five minutes for 
baking. Do not grease the tin. When slightly cool, slip the pie 
on to an earthen plate. 

Apple Pie 

4 or 5 sour apples 1 ts. lemon juice 

f c. sugar | ts. salt 

| ts. nutmeg \ ts. butter 



FATS FRYING, AND PASTRY 153 

Line a pie plate with paste. Pare and slice apples. Put a row 
around the plate one half inch from the edge, fill the center of the 
plate, then pile on the remaining apples. Mix sugar, salt, nutmeg 
and lemon juice and sprinkle on the apples. Dot with butter and 
sprinkle with flour. Add a little water. Put on the upper crust, 
bake 40 to 45 m. in a moderate oven. 

Evaporated apples may be soaked overnight and used in place 
of fresh ones. 

Pumpkin Pie 

1| c. steamed and strained ts. each cinnamon, gin- 
pumpkin ger, nutmeg 
c. sugar 1 egg 
\ ts. salt | c. milk 

Add sugar, salt, spice to pumpkin ; add the milk, scalded, and 
when cool, the egg slightly beaten. 

Pour into a crust with a double rim. Bake in a quick oven at 
first to set rim; decrease the heat afterward, as milk and egg in 
combination must be cooked at a low temperature. 

If richer pie is desired, use 1 c. pumpkin, \ c. milk, \ c. cream, 
and an additional egg yolk. 

Custard Pie 

2 eggs \ ts. salt 

\ c. sugar 1^ c. milk 

Nutmeg 

Beat egg slightly, add sugar, salt, and milk. Strain into a pie 
plate lined with crust with a double rim. Bake in a quick oven 
at first to set the rim ; decrease the heat afterward, as the custard 
will separate if cooked too quickly. When a knife inserted into 
the custard comes out clean, the pie is baked. 

Do not allow the custard to boil during the baking. 



154 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Mince Meat 

1 chopped apple 1 tb. boiled cider 

\ c. raisins, seeded and 1 c. sugar 

chopped 1 ts. cinnamon 

\ c. currants \ ts. cloves 

| c. butter or suet \ grated nutmeg 

1 tb. molasses \ ts. mace 

1 ts. salt 

Add enough stock in which the meat was cooked to moisten; 
heat gradually and simmer 10 m. Then add 1 c. chopped meat, 
1 tb. currant jelly. Cook 15 m. 

Lemon Pie 

>! 

| c. sugar Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 c. water Grated rind and juice 

3 tb. corn starch of one lemon 

1 ts. butter 

Mix corn starch and sugar, add boiling water, stirring constantly ; 
cook 2m., add butter, beaten yolks, and lemon. Pour into a pan 
lined with a crust with a double rim. Bake till pastry is brown. 
Cool slightly and cover with a meringue. 

Meringue 

Whites of 2 eggs A few drops of lemon 

4 tb. powdered sugar juice or vanilla 

Beat the whites till stiff, add sugar gradually, continue beating,' 
add flavoring, and spread on the pie. Bake in a slow oven 10 to 
12 m. If cooked quickly and too long, meringue is tough. 

Cranberry Pie 

Line a pie dish with paste and fill with uncooked cranberries. 
Add \ c. molasses, 4 tb. sugar. Cover with an upper crust and 
bake in a quick oven 30 m. 



FATS FRYING, AND PASTRY 155 

Cranberry Tart 

Line a pan with paste, fill with stewed and sweetened cran- 
berries. Lay strips of crust over the top, log cabin fashion, and 
bake. 

Tarts 

Roll paste T 3 f inch thick. Cut with a biscuit cutter. Cut as 
many more pieces with a doughnut cutter. Brush the circles with 
water and lay the rims on them. Chill thoroughly and bake 15 m. 
in a hot oven. Cool and fill with jelly. By placing 3 or 4 rings on 
the tart, shells may be made for creamed oysters or chicken. 

Cheese Straws 

Roll paste ^ inch thick. Sprinkle one half with grated cheese 
to which has been added a few grains of salt and cayenne. Fold, 
press edges together, fold again, roll out j inch thick. Sprinkle 
with cheese and proceed as before ; repeat twice. Cut in strips 5 
inches long, | inch wide ; dust with salt. Bake 8 m. in hot oven. 



CHAPTER XVI 
CAKES AND PUDDINGS 

CAKES may be classified under two heads : 

1. Cakes without butter, or sponge cakes. 

2. Cakes with butter. 

Powdered sugar makes a fine-grained cake. Coarse granu- 
lated sugar makes a coarse-grained, sticky cake.. Winter 
wheat flour should be used, as it makes a light, tender cake. 

To mix Sponge Cake. Separate the yolks from the 
whites. Beat the yolks till lemon-colored and thick. Add 
the sugar gradually and continue beating. Add flavoring. 
Fold in the whites beaten stiff. Sift in the flour carefully, 
and do not beat after adding the flour, or the air bubbles 
will be broken and the cake will be close grained and tough. 

Do not grease the pan for sponge cakes. Line the bottom 
of the pan with ungreased paper cut to fit it. 

To mix Butter Cakes. Use an earthen bowl and a wooden 
spoon. Have all the ingredients measured and ready, the 
pans greased before beginning to mix the cake. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar gradually, and beat till very light. 
Add the beaten yolks, flavoring, then the milk, and flour in 
which the baking powder has been sifted, alternately. Beat 
well, as cake is made fine-grained only by long beating; 
then fold in the beaten whites. Never stir the cake after 
the final beating. 

For butter cakes, grease the pan with lard (do not use 
butter, as it burns), sprinkle with flour, shake out all the 

156 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 157 

flour that does not adhere to the grease. Fill the pans about 
two thirds full, having the mixture come well into the corners. 
Leave a slight depression in the middle, so that the cakes 
will be level when baked. 

Baking. The baking is the most critical part of cake 
making. Test the oven with a piece of white paper. If it 
turns a light yellow in 5 minutes, it is ready for sponge cakes ; 
if a dark yellow in 5 minutes, it is ready for butter cakes. 

The time of baking should be divided into quarters; 
during the first quarter the mixture should begin to rise; 
during the second quarter it should continue to rise and 
begin to brown; in the third quarter, continue browning; 
in the last quarter, finish baking and shrink from the edge 
of the pan. Cake should not be moved until it has risen 
its full height. When it feels firm to the touch, shrinks 
from the pan, stops crackling, and a straw inserted comes 
out clean, the cake is done. Small and layer cakes require 
a hotter oven than sponge and loaf cakes. 

Sponge cakes are of two general kinds : 

1. Those in which the eggs and sugar are the only liquids 
used. 

2. Those in which water is added for part of the liquid. 
Sponge cake is nutritious and is easily digested. It is 

the best form of cake to give to children. 

NOTE. Estimate the cost of a sponge cake made without water, 
and a sponge cake made with water, and compare with the cost 
of butter cakes. Compute the relative cost of sponge and butter 
cakes at different seasons of the year. 

Sponge Cake (v/ithout water) 

5 eggs ^ lemon (grated rind and juice) 

1 c. fine granulated sugar 1 c. flour 
ts. salt 



158 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Mix as in directions for sponge cake. The mixture should 
be stiff and spongy. Bake in a loaf in a deep pan nearly 1 hour, 
in a shallow pan about 40 minutes. 

Berwick Sponge Cake (with water) 

Yolks 3 eggs 2 c. flour 

If c. sugar 2 ts. baking powder 

^ c. water Whites 3 eggs 

| ts. lemon extract, or grated rind and juice | lemon 
Beat the yolks 5 minutes, add sugar and beat 3 minutes, then 

the water, lemon, flour and baking powder, and last fold in the 

beaten whites. Bake in a loaf. 

Washington Pie 

Bake Berwick Sponge cake in round, shallow tins. When cool, 
split and fill with cream. Sprinkle top with powdered sugar. 

Cream Filling for Washington Pie. Scald 1 pt. milk. Mix 5 tb. 
flour, c. sugar with a little cold milk. Stir into scalding milk. 
Cook 5 m. Add 1 beaten egg, f ts. salt. Cook till thick. When 
cool, flavor with f ts. vanilla. 

Angel Food 

Whites of 11 eggs, 1 c. flour measured after one sifting, then 
sifted four times, 1 c. fine granulated sugar sifted three times. 
Beat the whites till stiff, on a platter with 1 ts. cream of tartar, 
add the sugar gradually, and 1 ts. vanilla or almond. Sift in the 
flour quickly and lightly. Pour into an ungreased pan and bake 
in a slow oven 45 or 50 minutes. Invert the pan till slightly cool. 

NOTE. Estimate the cost of an angel food with eggs at various 
prices. Compare with cost of butter cakes. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

1 c. molasses c. butter or lard softened 

If ts. soda 1 ts. ginger 

1 ts. salt 1 ts. mixed spice 

1 c. sour milk Flour 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 159 

Add soda to molasses and beat well, add milk, shortening, 
spice, salt and flour enough to roll. Put on a floured board and 
roll j inch thick. Cut and bake. 

Sponge Drops 

4 eggs 1 ts. flavoring 

c. powdered sugar f c. pastry flour 

\ ssp. salt 

Mix as for sponge cake. Drop by spoonfuls on an ungreased pan, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake 12 to 16 minutes in a slow 
oven. 

Cookies 

\ c. butter \ ts. nutmeg 

1 c. sugar 4 ts. baking powder 

1 or 2 eggs 2 c. flour, or enough to roll 
\ c. milk out thin 

Mix in the order given, following directions for mixing cup 
cakes. Roll out, cut, sprinkle the top with sugar. Bake about 
10 m. 

Sour Cream Cookies 

\ c. butter \ c. sour cream 

1^ c. sugar 1 ts. soda 

2 eggs Flour to roll 

Mix as above. 

Hermits 

| c. butter \ c. raisins stoned and chopped 

f c. sugar \ ts. cinnamon 

1 egg \ ts. cloves 
4 tb. milk \ ts. mace 

2 c. flour \ ts. nutmeg 

2 ts. baking powder 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, raisins, beaten egg and 
milk. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add. Roll a little 
thicker than plain cookies. Cut and bake. 



160 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Jumbles 

^ Ib. butter 2 eggs 

\ Ib. powdered sugar f Ib. flour 

Nutmeg 

Save out 3 tb. of the sugar to roll them in. Cream the butter, 
add sugar, beaten eggs, flour and nutmeg. Roll, cut with a dough- 
nut cutter, and bake a light brown. 

Sand Tarts 

\ Ib. butter 3 eggs 

1 Ib. brown sugar 1 Ib. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, beaten eggs, leaving out the 
white of one, and the flour. Roll thin, cut into 3-inch squares. 
Brush with the white of an egg and sprinkle with granulated sugar 
and cinnamon. Put an almond or raisin in the center of each and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 c. molasses \ ts. soda 

\ c. shortening 1 ts. salt 

1 tb. ginger 3 c. flour 

Heat the molasses to boiling point and pour over the short- 
ening. Add dry ingredients mixed and sifted. Chill thoroughly. 
Roll as thin as possible, cut and bake. Keep the dough cool or 
you will have to add more flour, which will make the cookies hard. 
Place cookies far enough apart on the baking pans so that 
they will not run together. Roll only a part of the dough at a 
time, gather up the trimmings, and add to the dough. Knead 
lightly till mixed. 

Soft Ginger Cookies 

f c. shortening (butter and lard) 

1 c. sugar 1 ts. each cinnamon, ginger, 

1 c. molasses and salt 

\ c. hot water, in which dis- \ ts. cloves 

solve \\ ts. soda Flour to make a soft dough 

Mix in order given ; roll and bake. 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 161 

NOTE. Estimate the cost per dozen of the various small cake 
and cookies. 

NOTE. Student study recipes of butter cakes as obtained from 
various cook books and family recipes and tabulate them as to 
the proportions of ingredients used. Also estimate cost. Ar- 
range the proportions on the basis of 3 c. flour used in the cake. 

NAME AND SOURCE OF RECIPE 
BUTTER SUGAR 

MILK EGGS 

FLOUR BAKING POWDER 

TOTAL COST OF RECIPE 

Ohe Egg Cake 

f c. butter creamed 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 2j c. flour 

1 egg beaten light 3 ts. baking powder 

\ ts. vanilla 

Mix in the order given, following directions for butter cake. 
Bake in a shallow pan in a moderate oven for 20 to 30 minutes. 

White Cake 

\ c. butter 3 c. flour 

\\ c. sugar 4 ts. baking powder 

1 c. water Whites 4 eggs 

1 ts. flavoring 
Follow directions for mixing butter cakes. 

Park Street Cake 

\ c. butter 4 eggs 

1| c. sugar 4 ts. baking powder 

1 c. milk 1 ts. flavoring 

3 c. flour 1 ssp. mace 

Cream the butter, add 1 c. sugar. Add the remaining cup of 
sugar to the beaten yolks, beat well together and proceed as in 
directions for butter cakes. Bake in 2 loaves in a moderate oven, 
or in layers. 

M 



162 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Spice Cake 

\ c. butter 2 eggs 

c - sugar 21 c. flour 

\ c. raisins seeded and cut in 3 ts. baking powder 

pieces 

\ c. molasses 1 ts. salt 

f c. boiled coffee 1 ts. cinnamon 

| ts. nutmeg grated i ts. allspice 
Follow directions for mixing butter cakes. Bake in a loaf 
in a moderate oven, or in layers. 

Devil's Food 

Part 1. i c. butter i c . sweet milk 

1 c. brown sugar 1 ts. soda 

1 whole egg and 2 yolks 2| c. flour 
Mix as any cake. 

Part 2. 3 squares chocolate \ c. sweet milk 

1 c. brown sugar 

Heat over hot water till smooth; add to Part 1 with \ ts. 
vanilla. Bake in two layers and frost with white frosting. 

Plain Frosting 

White of 1 egg i ts. vanilla or 

2 ts. cold water i tb. lemon juice 

f c. confectioner's sugar 

Beat egg stiff. Add water and sugar and beat well. Add 
flavoring and more sugar if needed. Spread with a broad knife. 



Boiled Frosting 

1 c. granulated sugar \ c. water 

i ts. cream of tartar 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 163 

Mix together, and boil, without stirring, until the syrup will 
thread when dropped from a fork. Pour gradually on the beaten 
white of 1 egg, beating constantly, and continue beating until thick 
enough to spread. Flavor with ts. vanilla. If not beaten long 
enough it will run when spreading; if beaten too long it will not 
spread smoothly. In the latter case a few drops of boiling water 
may be added. 

One square of melted chocolate may be added when the syrup 
is poured on the egg. 

Sugar for frosting is boiled to thread stage or soft ball, and at 
this stage the sugar thermometer registers 238 F. 

Marshmallow Frosting 

1 c. granulated sugar f c. water 

Boil together without stirring till of the consistency of honey; 
then dip 3 tb. of it and pour on the beaten white of 1 egg. Boil 
rest of syrup until it threads, then pour slowly on the egg. Add 
6 or 8 marshmallows which have been heated over hot water till 
soft. Flavor and beat till thick enough to spread. 

Beaten Frosting 

To the unbeaten whites of 2 eggs add 3 times their measure in 
bulk of XXXX confectioners' sugar. Beat until stiff enough 
to spread on the cake. Flavor to taste. This frosting thickens 
from the beating and will require beating from 20 to 30 minutes. 
It may then be used for ornamental decoration on a cake. 

Chocolate Frosting 

2 squares of Baker's ^ ts. vanilla 
chocolate 1 c. powdered sugar 

\ c. milk Yolk of an egg 

Melt the chocolate in the double boiler, add | the sugar and the 
milk; add the remaining sugar and the beaten yolk. Cook till 
it thickens, stirring constantly at first. Cool slightly, flavor, and 
spread. 



164 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

PUDDINGS 

Puddings are more wholesome than pastry and should be 
more frequently served. They may be divided into three 
general classes boiled, baked, and steamed puddings. 

Cottage Pudding 

2 heaping c. flour 1 egg 

3 ts. baking powder f c. sugar 

| ts. salt 3 tb. melted butter 

1 c. milk 

Mix the salt and baking powder with the flour. Add the sugar, 
butter, and milk to the beaten egg and stir into the flour. Bake 
in a shallow pan in a quick oven from 20 to 25 m. Serve hot with 
sauce. 

Rice Pudding 

c. rice ts. salt 

c. sugar 1 qt. milk 

Wash rice, mix ingredients, pour into a pudding dish. Bake 

from 2 to 3 h. in a very slow oven at first, then let it brown slightly. 

Serve hot or cold. 

Bread Pudding 

3 c. stale bread crumbs soaked 1 h. in 1 qt. milk. Add to 2 
beaten eggs, ^ c. sugar, ^ ts. salt, | ts. spice and 2 tb. softened 
butter. Stir into the milk. Bake 1 h. in a slow oven. Remove 
from oven, spread with jelly or jam, and cover with a meringue 
made of the beaten whites of 2 eggs and 4 tb. powdered sugar. 
Bake in a slow oven 10 m. until a delicate brown. 

Grated rind and juice of f lemon may be added to the pudding. 

Scalloped Apples 

Put a layer of bread crumbs in a baking dish, then a layer of 
sliced apple, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and grated lemon 
rind, dot with bits of butter. Repeat layers, having crumbs on 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 165 

top with bits of butter to make them brown. Moisten with water. 
Bake 40 m. in moderate oven. Cover at first to prevent crumbs 
from browning too rapidly. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Indian Pudding 

5 c. scalded milk c. molasses 

s c. Indian meal 1 ts. salt 

\ ts. ginger, if liked 

Pour the milk slowly on meal, cook in double boiler 20 m. Add 
molasses, salt, and ginger. Pour into a buttered pudding dish 
and bake 2 hours in a very slow oven. Serve with cream. If 
baked too rapidly it will separate. This may be cooked success- 
fully in a tireless cooker. 

Suet Pudding 

2 c. flour 1 c. chopped suet, 

1 ts. soda or \ c. butter 

\ ts. salt 1 c. raisins or currants, 

1 ts. cinnamon chopped 

\ ts. nutmeg 1 c. water or milk 

1 c. molasses 

Sift salt, soda, spice with flour, rub in the suet and add raisins. 
Mix milk with molasses and stir it into the dry mixture. Steam 
in a buttered pudding mold 3 h. Serve with sauce. 

Graham Pudding 

\ c. butter 1^ c. graham flour 

\ c. molasses \ ts. soda 

\ c. milk 1 c. raisins seeded and 

1 egg cut in pieces 

1 ts. salt 

Melt butter, add milk, molasses, well beaten egg, the dry ingre- 
dients mixed and sifted, and raisins; put into buttered mold, 
cover, and steam 2| hours. Serve with sauce. 



166 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Prune Whip 

Wash | Ib. prunes. Soak. Cook in a little water till soft. 
Remove stones and rub through a colander. Add f c. sugar. Beat 
the whites of 4 eggs stiff. Add the prunes, a spoonful at a time. 
Bake in a slow oven till a light brown, about 20 m. Serve with 
whipped cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla, or with soft 
custard. 

Tapioca Cream 

2 tb. pearl tapioca 2 eggs beaten separately 
1 pt. milk | ts. salt 

I c. sugar ts. vanilla 

Soak tapioca in hot water to cover for 1 h. or more ; add the 
milk and cook in a double boiler till the tapioca is transparent. 
To beaten yolks add sugar and salt. Pour the hot mixture over 
them, return to double boiler, and cook 2 or 3 m. Remove from 
fire, add beaten whites. When cool, flavor. 

Sponge Pudding 

1 tb. butter | ts. baking powder 

c. flour 3 eggs beaten 

I c. sugar separately 

1 pt. milk 

Mix the sugar and flour, wet in a little cold milk and stir into 
a pint of boiling milk. Cook till thick and smooth, add butter and 
beaten yolks. When cool add baking powder and fold in beaten 
whites. Bake in a pudding dish set in a pan of hot water 25 to 
30 m. Serve with creamy sauce. 

Caramel Custard 

4 c. scalded milk 1 ts. vanilla 

3 or 4 eggs c. sugar 

1 ssp. salt 

Put sugar in an omelet-pan and stir over the fire until it forms 
a light brown syrup. Add slowly to the milk. Cook in a double 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 167 

boiler till the sugar dissolves, pour slowly over the slightly beaten 
eggs. Flavor. Strain into a buttered pudding dish. Set in a 
pan of hot water and bake till a knife inserted will come out clean. 
Egg and milk in combination must be cooked at a low temperature 
or they will separate. 

Add more sugar before baking if not sweet enough. 

Lemon Sauce 
See page 127. 

Vanilla Sauce 

1 c. sugar 1 or 2 tb. butter 

1 c. water 1 egg 

Boil water and sugar together 5 m. Add butter, and when 

melted pour over the egg well beaten. Stir over the fire till it 
thickens slightly. Add ts. vanilla. If egg is cooked too long, 
it will separate. 

Foamy Sauce 

| c. butter 1 egg 

1 c. powdered sugar ts. vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, the well-beaten egg and 

vanilla ; beat while heating over hot water till smooth, but do not 

melt the butter. 

Creamy Sauce 

| c. butter 4 tb. cream 

f c. powdered sugar 1 ts. vanilla 

Cream the butter. Add sugar gradually and the cream, drop 
by drop. Set over hot water and beat till smooth and creamy, 
but do not melt the butter. Flavor. 

Yellow Sauce 

Beat 1 egg until very thick. Add gradually f c. powdered 
sugar and beat well with a silver fork. Add 1 tb. melted butter. 
Beat over hot water for about 10 m. Add f ts. vanilla. Serve hot. 



CHAPTER XVII 
MINERAL FOODS SALADS 

USE of mineral matter in body : 

1. Form bone. 

2. Essential part of protoplasm. 

3. Necessary for body fluids, etc. 

An average man excretes between twenty and thirty grams 
of mineral matter per day. This amount must be supplied 
to the body by food and beverages. The only mineral matter 
which is added directly to our food is common salt, sodium 
chloride (NaCl), all the others required being found in suffi- 
cient quantity in a well-balanced dietary. We probably 
consume much more common salt than is needed by the 
body, but it has a decided value as a condiment, improving 
the flavor of foods and hence making them digest more 
easily. . Mineral matter, as a rule, is found abundantly in 
fresh fruits and vegetables. 

Two of the most important minerals required by the 
body are lime (calcium, Ca) and iron (Fe). The other 
minerals are also of much importance, but are usually sup- 
plied by our foods in sufficient quantity for the needs of the 
body. 

Lime. Three fourths of the mineral matter of the body 
is calcium phosphate, which is found in the bones, soft tis- 
sues, and in solution in the body fluids. Blood will not clot 
without lime salts, and they are necessary for the beating of 
the heart. 

168 



MINERAL FOODS SALADS 169 

Both organic and inorganic forms of lime may be assimi- 
lated by the body, even those which are insoluble in water. 
Animals that eat bones probably assimilate some of the 
lime; however, organic lime has greater food value than 
inorganic lime. 

A child must have a sufficient quantity of lime in its food 
or the bones will not grow properly, and general develop- 
ment of the body will be arrested. 

Milk is very rich in lime. Lime water is added to milk 
in infant feeding, not to increase the amount of lime, but 
to soften the casein curd so that it may digest more easily. 
Milk is richer in lime than lime water. 

Foods Rich in Lime Foods Poor in Lime 

Milk Meats 

Egg yolk Fish 

Peas, beans, turnips, oranges, Bread 

carrots, parsnips, spinach Polished rice 

Most cereals New process corn meal 

Iron. Iron is found in the body chiefly in the red color- 
ing or hemoglobin of the blood. In this form it acts as an 
oxygen carrier, carrying oxygen from the lungs to all parts 
of the body. A deficiency of iron in the diet brings on 
anemia and other diseases of deficient oxidation. Chloro- 
phyll grains in plants cannot be produced without iron. If 
plants are grown in solutions free from iron, the leaves are 
colorless, but become green when iron salts are added. 

Iron is found as a constituent part of protein. Milk con- 
tains less iron than any other food, as the young animal is 
born with about three times more iron than is needed for 
its immediate use. Children kept too long on a milk diet 
become anemic. 



170 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The iron in cereals lies in and near the outer coats or 
bran. Entire wheat flour is thus much richer in iron than 
is fine white flour. The human body readily assimilates 
organic iron or that found in plant foods and meats, but the 
value of medicinal iron tonics is doubtful, as inorganic iron 
does not assimilate readily, if at all. The iron in eggs and 
vegetables is probably assimilated to better advantage than 
that in meats. Herbivorous animals are less liable to anemia 
than are carnivorous animals. 



IRON IN TYPICAL FOOD MATERIALS (H. C. SHERMAN) 

AMOUNT OP IRON 

FOOD IN 100 GRAMS 

FRESH SUBSTANCE 

Beefsteak, all lean 3.85 mm. 

Beefsteak, medium fat 2.2 

Eggs 3.0 

Milk, whole 0.24 

Milk, skimmed 0.25 

Cream (18.5% fat) 0.20 

Cornmeal 1.15 

Oatmeal 3.7 

Rice, polished 0.7 

Wheat flour 1.5 

Wheat entire grain 5.2 

Beans, lima, dried 7.2 

Beans, navy, dried 6.7 

Beans, string, fresh 1.6 

Cabbage 0.9 

Corn, sweet 0.8 

Peas, dried .5.6 

Potatoes 1.2 

Spinach 3.8 

Turnips 0.6 

Apples 0.3 

Prunes 2.9 

Raisins 3.6 



MINERAL FOODS SALADS 171 

SALADS 

Salads are mixtures of fish, fruits, vegetables or meats, 
with a salad green and some form of salad dressing. The 
food value of salad greens is not high, as they are composed 
largely of water, but they form a valuable part of the diet, 
because of their richness in mineral salts. 

A salad is more or less nutritious according to the ingredi- 
ents used in it. The butter, oil, cream or eggs used in salad 
dressing give it a high heat and energy value. During the 
spring and summer months a salad of fresh green vegetables 
should appear upon the table every day. All salads should 
be served cold and crisp and the dressing should be added 
just before serving. 

The salad served with a dinner of several courses should 
be made of vegetables or fruits and be mixed with a French 
dressing. When the salad forms a main dish of a luncheon 
or supper, it may be made of various combinations of meats, 
vegetables, etc., mixed with a mayonnaise, a cooked, or a 
cream dressing. 

Meat for salad should be freed from skin, gristle, and fat 
and be cut into small cubes. Fish should be freed from 
bones and skin, and the flesh flaked. Vegetables, as a rule, 
should be cut into quarter inch cubes. 

Lettuce. Lettuce should be carefully washed to remove 
any dirt and bacteria which may cling to it and also small 
green insects which are sometimes found on the under side 
of the leaves. Wash each leaf separately, changing the 
water often. Shake the leaf gently to remove water, then 
place on a clean towel and dry carefully with another towel 
until perfectly dry, but not wilted. 

To freshen lettuce. Place in a bowl of ice water to which 
has been added 1 tb. vinegar and let stand \ hour. 



172 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

To keep lettuce. After washing, put lettuce in a pail, 
stem end down, cover closely and set in a cold place. 

To mix salad. Put alternate layers of salad ingredients 
and dressing in a bowl. Lift from the bottom with a fork 
and spoon and toss lightly until well mixed. 

To marinate a salad. Cut materials for a salad into 
cubes and pour over them a French dressing. Let stand an 
hour. Drain ; mix salad with any desired dressing as usual. 

MATERIALS THAT MAY BE USED IN SALAD 
Meats Fruits Greens and Garnishes 

Chicken Oranges Lettuce 

Veal Grapefruit Celery 

Roast pork Pineapple Endive 

Sweetbreads Bananas Chickery 

Calves' brains Malaga grapes Water cress 

Fish Cherries Romaine 

Salmon Apples Escarole 

Lobster Dates Radishes 

Shrimp Miscellaneous Pimentos 

Sardines Eggs Sweet peppers 

Oysters Nuts Olives 

White fish Cheeses Parsley 
Marshmallows 
(with fruit) 

Vegetables 

Potatoes Beets 

Cabbage (raw) Green peas 

Spinach Cucumbers (raw) 

Tomatoes (raw) Carrots 

String beans Asparagus 

Salad dressings are of many varieties, but may be classed 
under the following heads : 

1. Cooked salad dressing. 3. French dressing. 

2. Mayonnaise. 4. Cream dressing. 



MINERAL FOODS SALADS 173 

All dressings, with the exception of French dressing, should 
be just thick enough to coat the particles of food with which 
they are mixed ; if too thin they will settle in the bottom of 
the dish ; if too thick, they will not mix well. They should 
be thinned with either sweet or sour cream to the right 
consistency just before serving. Dressings are seasoned with 
salt, cayenne, and paprika, but mustard should be used spar- 
ingly, if at all. A small amount of sugar may be added for 
fruit salads, but a dressing for a fish or meat salad should not 
be sweetened. 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

Yolks 4 eggs or 2 whole eggs beaten until very light. Add 2 
tb. vinegar and 2 tb. milk or cream. Set the bowl in a saucepan 
of hot water and cook, stirring continuously until the mixture is 
of the consistency of soft butter. Do not let the water boil around 
it, as the high temperature hardens the albumen on the sides of the 
bowl and tends to make the dressing lumpy. Remove from fire 
and add 3 or 4 tb. butter, 1 ts. salt, and few grains of cayenne. 
When ready to use, thin with cream. 

Mayonnaise 

Put yolks of 1 or 2 eggs on a plate and rub smooth with a silver 
fork. Add olive oil, drop by drop, stirring till well mixed. When 
it thickens, add a few drops of vinegar to thin ; repeat process till 
required amount is made. Season. Lemon juice may be used in 
place of vinegar. 

If the dressing separates in mixing, add the mixture, drop by 
drop, to another yolk of egg. If the dressing is to be made in 
quantity, put the yolks of egg in a bowl and beat in the oil with a 
Dover egg beater. Use yolks of 2 eggs for ^ pt. oil. When ready 
to use, thin with whipped cream. 



174 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

French Dressing 

^ ts. salt 3 tb. olive oil 

| ts. pepper 1 tb. vinegar 

Add oil to the salt and pepper ; stir till seasoning is dissolved ; 
add vinegar and stir till well mixed. 

Whipped Cream Dressing 

\ c. whipping cream f ts. salt 

1 tb. vinegar Few grains cayenne or 

1 tb. lemon juice paprika 

Beat cream until thick ; add the other ingredients slowly. Use 
at once. 

Dressed Lettuce 

Wash and dry lettuce. Serve with French dressing to which 
Roquefort cheese has been added, if desired; or garnish with balls 
made of cream cheese. Any of the salad dressings may be served 
with lettuce. 

Potato Salad 

Cut cold potatoes into one-fourth inch cubes, sprinkle lightly 
with salt and, if liked, marinate with French dressing. Add chopped 
onion, celery, cucumbers cut in cubes, chopped parsley, pimento, 
etc., to taste. Mix with salad dressing; garnish with radishes, 
shredded lettuce, hard-boiled eggs, etc. 

The dressing for potato salad should be rather thin, as the potato 
absorbs it. 

Cabbage Salad 

Cut the cabbage in halves, slice very thin ; let soak \ hour in 
ice water. Drain well, mix with a salad dressing. Serve at once. 

Egg Salad 

Cook eggs twenty minutes in water just below the boiling 
point. Put in cold water. Remove shells and cut eggs in any 
desired shape. Put on lettuce leaves. Add a spoonful of salad 
dressing. Garnish. 



MINERAL FOODS SALADS 175 

Fish Salad 

Prepare fish. Add an equal amount of celery cut in small 
pieces. Mix with a salad dressing and place on lettuce leaves. 
Serve at once. 

Chicken or Any Meat Salad 

Cut chicken or meat in ^-inch cubes. Add an equal amount 
of celery cut in small pieces. Marinate if desired. Mix with salad 
dressing and put on lettuce leaves or shredded lettuce. Serve at 
once. 

Sandwiches. The bread for sandwiches should have a 
fine, even texture and should be twenty-four hours old. 
The loaf should be of a size to cut the sandwiches with as 
little waste as possible. All crusts trimmed from the bread 
should be saved for bread crumbs. If a large number of 
sandwiches is to be made, remove all crust from loaf and 
trim it into shape before slicing. Very thin slices of buttered 
bread may be prepared by softening the butter and spread- 
ing on the loaf before slicing. Sandwiches may be kept 
fresh for several hours by wrapping them in slightly damp- 
ened napkins. If for a lunch box, each sandwich should be 
wrapped in paraffin paper. The lunch box should be lined 
with paraffin paper and be divided into compartments with 
pieces of cardboard to hold the different kinds of food. 

Lettuce Sandwiches 

Prepare bread for sandwiches. Spread with salad dressing and 
lay shredded lettuce (which has been washed carefully and dried) 
between the slices. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop hard-boiled eggs fine and mix with salad dressing. Spread 
between thin slices of bread. 



176 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Mix cream cheese with mayonnaise and spread between slices 
of bread. Chopped pimentos, olives, nuts, etc., may be added. 

Cheese Filling 

2 tb. butter \ ts. salt % 

3 tb. corn starch Speck cayenne 
1 c. milk 

Make as a white sauce. Cook 10 minutes. Add 1 beaten egg, 
1 c. grated cheese. Cook till cheese is melted. Cool. Spread in 
center of finger rolls and heat rolls in oven just before serving. 
Or spread mixture on rounds of bread, and heat in oven till cheese 
is melted. 

Ham Sandwiches 

Mince ham fine. Season with cayenne and mustard. Moisten 
with cream or melted butter and spread between slices of bread. 

Cheese Wafers 

Sprinkle wafers with grated cheese mixed with a little mustard 
and cayenne. Bake till the cheese melts. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
GELATINE AND FROZEN DESSERTS 

GELATINE is a protein and is classed as an albuminoid. It 
is derived from the collagen of connective tissue, cartilage, 
and bone, which is converted into gelatine by boiling with 
water. Unlike albumen and globulin, gelatine is soluble in 
hot water and forms a jelly when cold. 

Although classed as a true protein, gelatine cannot sustain 
life, if it is the only form of protein supplied to the body. 
When gelatine is added to the diet, however, a smaller 
amount of other forms of protein is required to maintain a 
protein equilibrium in the body. 

Commercial gelatine is extracted from the tendons and 
sinews of calves' feet and from the bones, tendons, and clip- 
pings of skin of older animals. It is sold in the form of sheets, 
or is shredded, granulated, or powdered, and put in boxes. 
A box of gelatine usually contains two ounces and will 
stiffen two quarts of jelly. More gelatine should be used 
when fruits are molded in the jelly. Uncooked pineapple 
should not be added to jelly, as it contains an enzyme 
which will liquefy the gelatine; cooking destroys the 
enzyme. 

Gelatine should be first soaked in cold water until soft, 
using 1 c. water to 2 oz. gelatine, and then be dissolved in a 
boiling liquid and allowed to stand without disturbing until 
it jellies. 

x 177 



178 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lemon Jelly 

1 oz. gelatine (| box) c. lemon juice 

\ c. cold water 2 c. boiling water 

1 c. sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water till soft; add the sugar, lemon 
juice, and the boiling water ; stir until gelatine is dissolved. Strain 
through a cheesecloth wrung out of hot water. Put in mold 
wet in cold water and set in a cold place till firm. 

To Unmold Jelly. Set the mold in a pan of lukewarm water, 
having the water come as high as the jelly. Do not let the jelly 
melt. Place the dish in which the jelly is to be served over the 
mold and invert them both. Shake gently until the jelly drops 
from the mold. 

Gelatine has a very low melting point, so the water should not 
be hot, nor the mold left in it too long. 



Jellied Prunes 

| Ib. prunes 1 c. sugar 

\ box gelatine soaked in \ c. lemon juice 

\ c. cold water 

Wash prunes and soak for several hours in 2 c. cold water, cook 
in same water till soft ; remove prunes, stone, and cut in quarters. 
To prune water add enough boiling water to make 2 c. Add soaked 
gelatine to boiling mixture, also the sugar and lemon juice, strain, 
add prunes, and pour into mold. Let harden. Stir twice while 
cooling to prevent prunes from settling. Serve with sweetened 
cream. Dried apricots or peaches may be used in the same 
way. 

Apple Compote 
See page 49. 



GELATINE AND FROZEN DESSERTS 179 

Neapolitan Pudding 

Soak | box gelatine in 1 c. cold water, dissolve in 1 pt. boiling 
water, add \ c. sugar, the juice of 1 lemon and 1 orange, and strain 
into 1 pt. preserved strawberries. Pour off part of the clear juice 
and let it begin to stiffen, then add the beaten whites of 2 eggs and 
beat like snow pudding. Put the rest of the mixture into a mold 
and pour the beaten mixture on top. Let stand till hard. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Snow Pudding 

\ box gelatine \\ c. sugar 

1 c. cold water Juice of 3 lemons 

1 pt. boiling water Whites of 3 eggs 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, add the sugar and lemon juice, 
and pour over them the boiling water. Stir till gelatine and sugar 
are dissolved. Strain. Set in a pan of ice water. When the 
mixture begins to stiffen, beat till smooth, and add the beaten whites. 
Beat till white and foamy all through like a drop batter. Pour 
into a mold wet in cold water. Let stand several hours. Serve 
with soft custard. 

Soft Custard 

1 pt. milk \ c. sugar 

Yolks 3 eggs \ ssp. salt 

\ ts. vanilla 

Scald the milk and pour it slowly over the beaten yolks and sugar. 
Return to double boiler and cook 2 or 3 m. or till it coats the spoon. 
When cool, flavor. If it separates, set in cold water and beat till 
smooth with a Dover egg beater. 

Bavarian Cream 

1 c. milk \ c. sugar 

2 yolks of eggs Pinch of salt 

Cook as a soft custard in a double boiler. While hot, add 
\ c. gelatine which has been soaked in \ c. cold water. Stir until 



180 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

gelatine is dissolved. Strain through a wire sieve. Let stand 
until the mixture begins to stiffen, then beat it smooth, add 1 ts. 
vanilla and 1 c. cream beaten stiff. Stir slowly until well mixed. 
Pour into mold wet in cold water. Let stand until firm. Various 
flavorings may be added. 

Spanish Cream 

Make as Bavarian Cream, adding the 2 beaten whites of eggs 
in place of the whipped cream. 

Charlotte Russe 

J box gelatine 1 ts. vanilla 

c. cold water Lady fingers or 

i c. boiling water sponge cake 

| c. powdered sugar 1 pt. cream 

Soak the gelatine in cold water. Chill the cream and whip 
it, skimming off the froth into a bowl set in ice water. Sift the 
sugar over the whipped cream and flavor. Dissolve the gelatine 
in the boiling water and let stand until cool, but do not let it stiffen ; 
strain over the cream. Stir slowly till the mixture is nearly a 
drop batter. If it feels lumpy, remove from ice water and stir till 
smooth. Pour into a mold lined with lady fingers. Keep on ice 
till ready to serve. 

Freezing. The freezing point of water is 32 F. or C. 
The freezing point of a mixture of salt, ice, and water is 
lower than that of water. When salt and ice are placed in 
the space between the wooden tub of an ice cream freezer 
and the metal can, their freezing point being lower than 
that of the ice alone, the ice melts and draws the heat 
(latent heat) from the cream in the inner can, thus causing 
the cream to freeze. The larger the quantity of salt used, 
the more quickly the mixture will freeze, but too rapid 
freezing makes a coarse-grained ice cream. The mixture 
will freeze more rapidly if the ice is chopped fine. 



GELATINE AND FROZEN DESSERTS 181 

EXPERIMENT 76. Make a mixture of 1 part salt to 3 parts 
ice. Make a mixture of 1 part salt to 2 parts ice. Take tempera- 
ture. Place a test tube containing water in each of the above 
mixtures ; note time required to freeze the water. 



ICES AND SHERBETS 

Ices and Sherbets are prepared from various fruit juices, 
crushed fruits, or other flavorings which are dissolved in 
water. The frozen mixture will have a smoother texture if 
the sugar used is cooked to a syrup with part of the liquid 
before adding to the fruit. A white, creamy sherbet may 
be made by adding the beaten whites of 1 or 2 eggs to the 
partly frozen mixture. A mixture will lose sweetness and 
flavor when frozen and should be made a little sweeter and 
be more highly flavored than desired, before freezing. 
Suggestions for sherbets : 

Lemon Strawberry 

Orange Raspberry 

Pineapple Juice of cooked cranberries 

Grape juice Mint steeped in water 

Bananas Apricots 

Oranges and lemons Peach 

Fruits should be mashed or grated, or only the juice used. 
If large pieces of fruit are to be used, add when the mixture 
is nearly frozen. 

How to freeze Ice Cream and Ices. Crush ice fine by 
putting it in a burlap bag and pounding with a wooden 
mallet or hatchet. Put the mixture to be frozen in the can, 
put into the wooden tub and adjust the top, making sure it 
fits perfectly. Put in the ice, allowing three measures of 
ice to one of rock salt. Pound down with a small board. 
Repeat till ice comes nearly to the top of the can. 



182 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The mixture increases in bulk during freezing, so the can 
should be only three fourths full. Turn the crank slowly 
and steadily at first, more rapidly toward the last. Never 
draw off the salt water till the mixture is frozen. When 
freezing is accomplished, remove dasher and with spoon 
pack solidly. Draw off the water, repack freezer, using 
four parts of ice to one of salt. Cover freezer and let stand 
from one to three hours to ripen. 

Pineapple Ice 

1 pt grated or chopped. 1 pt. sugar 

pineapple 3 c. water 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Boil water and sugar 10 m. Cool, add pineapple. Freeze 
according to directions. When frozen to a mush, add the beaten 
whites and finish freezing. Juice and grated rind of 1 or 2 lemons 
may be added to mixture before freezing. 

Lemon Ice 

1 qt. water Grated rind of 2 lemons 

2 c. sugar f c. lemon juice 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Boil the water and sugar 10 m. Add lemon rind and juice. 
Cool and strain. Freeze. When nearly stiff, add the beaten 
whites and finish freezing. 

ICE CREAM 

Ice cream may be prepared from : 

1. Pure cream. 

2. Cream plus milk. 

3. Soft custard plus cream. 

4. Soft custard. 



GELATINE AND FROZEN DESSERTS 183 

Any desired flavoring may be added. 

The sugar used should be heated till dissolved with part 
of the liquid. If part of the cream is whipped, it will im- 
prove the texture. The custard may be thickened with 
corn starch, arrowroot, or flour and yolks of eggs, or with 
egg yolks alone. Cook corn starch 15 minutes. 

Custard Foundation for Ice Cream 

Thicken 2 c. milk scalded in double boiler, with 2 tb. flour 
wet in cold milk. Add 1 c. sugar, ts. salt. Cook 5 minutes, 
add beaten yolks 2 eggs, cook 1 minute, cool. When cool, add 
3 c. cream and any desired flavor. Freeze. 

Flavorings which may be added : 
2 tb. vanilla. 

2 sq. melted chocolate and 1 tb. vanilla. 
Sweetened and crushed fruits. 
Chopped candied fruits, 1 tb. vanilla. 
Dried and pounded macaroons, 1 tb. vanilla, etc. 

Cream Foundation for Ice Cream 
1 qt. cream f c. sugar 

Scald sugar with 1 c. of the cream ; cool, add remainder of cream 
and flavoring. Freeze. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

To above rule, add 3 pts. berries rubbed through a colander and 
mixed with 1 c. sugar. 



CHAPTER XIX 

INVALID COOKERY 

Liquid Diet 

1. Milk. 5. Gruels. 

2. Broths, beef tea. 6. Cream soups. 

3. Albumen drinks. 7. Beverages, etc. 

4. Eggnog. 

Light or Soft Diet 

1. Cream soups. 6. Junket. 

2. Soft-cooked eggs. 7. Creamed sweetbreads. 

3. Milk toast. 8. Creamed chicken. 

4. Cereals. 9. Light puddings. 

5. Soft custards. 10. Gelatine desserts, etc. 

Convalescent Diet 

1. Soups. 6. Cooked fruits. 

2. Broiled tender meats and 7. Baked custards. 

fish. 8. Light desserts. 

3. Baked, creamed potatoes. 9. Any simple easily digested 

4. Some light vegetables. ' foods. 

5. Simple salads. 

Foods to Avoid for Invalids and Children 

1. Pastry. 7. Any fried food. 

2. Rich cakes. 8. Hot breads. 

3. Veal. 9. Baked beans. 

4. Pork. 10. Tea and coffee (for chil- 

5. Sausage. dren). 

6. Lobster. 11. Alcoholic beverages. 

184 



INVALID COOKERY 185 

12. Any highly seasoned or stimulating food or beverage. 

13. All foods difficult of digestion. 

To set an Invalid's Tray. The tray should be of a size 
to hold easily any dishes placed upon it. Cover it with a 
clean linen doily. In cases of contagious diseases paper 
doilies may be used in serving and afterwards be burned; 
and all dishes should be sterilized in boiling water. Arrange 
the tray in the same relative position as the cover in setting 
a table. Use the daintiest dishes to be obtained. Place a 
single blossom on the tray. 

In serving children a slightly fantastic arrangement of 
foods which will appeal to the imagination will often be the 
means of causing children to take the necessary nourish- 
ment. Never serve large portions of food, or the sight of it 
may take away the appetite. 



LIQUID DIET 

Milk. As milk forms a clot by the action of the enzyme, 
rennin, as soon as it reaches the stomach, it should be regarded 
as a solid food and not a beverage. When taken, it should be 
sipped slowly that the clots formed may be small and hence 
more easily digested. The digestibility of milk may be in- 
creased by the addition of lime water or a starch gruel. 
(See milk, page 108.) 

Infants have no starch-digesting enzymes present in the 
saliva or pancreatic juice until they are about one year old, 
hence cannot digest starchy foods. Any starch given to 
them should be dextrinized with heat or by the action of the 
enzyme diastase present in malt. Starch gruels should be 
dextrinized by the addition of some commercial malt extract 
before being added to milk to be given to children under 
one year of age. 



186 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Milk for invalids may be clotted by the addition of rennin 
in the form of junket tablets. Bacteria grow very rapidly 
in milk, so care should be taken to obtain the purest milk 
possible. If there is the slightest doubt as to the purity of 
the supply, the milk should be sterilized or Pasteurized before 
it is used. 

Sterilized Milk 

Fill ^ pt. bottle with milk to within 1 inches of the top ; cork 
with sterile cotton. Stand in a steamer of cold water, having 
the water surround bottles to three-fourths their height. Heat 
water gradually until it nearly reaches the boiling point and keep 
at this temperature for ten minutes or longer. Remove from water 
and cool quickly. 

If the milk is to be Pasteurized, raise the temperature of the 
water to 167 F. and keep at that point for twenty minutes. 

Albumenized Milk 

White of 1 egg 1 c. milk 

Place egg and milk in a covered glass jar. Shake till they 
are thoroughly blended. It may be sweetened and flavored. 
Serve immediately. 

Junket 

1 c. milk | ts. salt 

2 tb. sugar junket tablet dissolved 

in 1 ts. water 

Heat milk until lukewarm, 100 F., add sugar and salt, stir 
in the junket quickly. Pour into the dish in which it is to be 
served. Let stand in a warm place until set, then chill and serve 
with cream. 

Meat Broths. Broths may be made from beef, mutton, 
or chicken. As ordinarily made the food value of broths is 
very low, the albumen and globulin of the meat being coagu- 



INVALID COOKERY 187 

lated by heat and removed by straining, the extractives 
alone remaining in the broth. To prepare meat for broths 
wash it carefully with a wet cloth and remove all fat. 

Beef Tea, No. i 

1 Ib. beef from round 1 pt. cold water 

| ts. salt 

Prepare meat as given in directions for broths and cut in small 
cubes. Put in a fruit jar with the water and salt, and let stand 
\ hour. Place in a pan of cold water on a trivet, having the water 
in the pan as high as the contents of the jar. Heat gradually in 
the oven or on top of the stove, not letting the water become hotter 
than 180 F. Keep at this temperature for two hours, strain and 
season. In reheating care should be taken not to coagulate the 
juices. 

Beef Tea, No. 2 

Remove all fat from 1 Ib. round steak. Chop meat fine. Add 
1 pt. cold water and \ ts. salt, and let stand in ice box from 1 to 
3 hours. Heat very gently, stirring all the time until it just changes 
color. Pour into wire strainer and press the meat. Season liquid 
with salt and reheat very carefully, not to coagulate the juices. 
Do not remove the brown flakes if they form. 

Mutton Broth 

2 Ib. mutton or lamb cut 1 tb. boiled rice 

from forequarter or leg f ts. salt 

2 pts. water 

Prepare meat as for broths. Cut in small pieces. Add water 
and salt. Cook slowly until meat is tender and bones clean. Strain, 
cool, remove every particle of fat. Reheat and add boiled rice. 

Gruels. Gruels are a liquid preparation of some cereal 
and water or milk. They must be cooked thoroughly that 
the starch may be well hydrated, and then be strained to 



188 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

remove any cellulose. Milk should be added just before 
serving and the gruel then be reheated. Flour, barley, and 
cracker gruels act as astringents. 

Flour Gruel 
2 c. milk 2 tb. flour 

1 ts. salt 

Scald milk; thicken with flour wet in cold milk. Cook over 
hot water 30 minutes. Add salt. Serve. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

1 c. oatmeal i ts. salt 
3 c. boiling water Milk 

Add oatmeal to boiling water and salt. Cook in double boiler 
2 hours. Strain. Add milk or cream and reheat. 

Cracker Gruel 

2 butter crackers 1 c. milk 

| ts. salt 

Roll crackers and add to scalded milk. Cook 5 minutes in 
double boiler. Add salt and serve. 

Albumen Drinks. Add the white of egg, beaten only 
enough to break the fiber slightly, to any liquid, as milk, 
water, fruit juices, adding sugar to taste. 

Eggnog 

1 egg beaten separately f c. milk 

1 tb. sugar | ts. vanilla or a little 

Few grains salt nutmeg 

Add sugar, salt, milk, flavoring, to beaten yolk. Strain, add 
the beaten white. Stir well before serving. 

Apple Water 

1 large sour apple 2 ts. sugar 

1 c. boiling water Lemon to taste 



INVALID COOKERY 189 

Wipe and core apple. Put sugar in center and bake till tender ; 
mash. Pour on the water, let stand ^ hour, and strain. Add 
lemon juice. Used as a cooling drink for fever patients. 

Lemonade 

^ lemon f glass water 2 tb. sugar 

Add sugar and water to the lemon. Soda water, Apollinaris, 

or Seltzer water may be used. 

All fruit drinks are improved if sweetened with syrup instead 

of sugar. 

Syrup for Fruit Beverages 

Boil 1 c. sugar and 1 c. water for 10 minutes. Cool, bottle, and 
use as desired. 

Flaxseed Lemonade 

2 tb. whole flaxseed Lemon juice 

1 pt. boiling water Sugar 

Pick over and wash flaxseed, add water, and cook one hour, 
keeping just below the boiling point. Strain, add lemon and sugar 
to taste. Add more water if too thick. 

Good in kidney troubles and also soothing to the throat in 
bronchial affections. 

LIGHT DIET 

Toast. Bread for toast should be at least 24 hours old. It 
is toasted to extract moisture, to dextrinize the starch, and to 
make it more palatable and digestible. The slices should be 
cut thin and toasted with a steady, even heat to evaporate 
the moisture and brown the slice without burning it. Serve 
at once. 

Water Toast 

Toast 2 slices of bread until very dry and a light brown. Have 
1 pt. boiling water in a shallow pan, add 1 ts. salt. Dip the toast 
quickly into the water, remove to a hot dish, spread with butter, 
and serve very hot. 



190 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Milk Toast 

Toast 2 slices of bread. Scald f c. milk, add f tb. butter, 
I ts. salt, pour over the toast. Serve very hot. 

Cream Toast 

Thicken f c. milk with 1 tb. flour wet in cold milk. Cook 
over hot water 20 minutes, add | tb. butter and ts. salt. Pour 
over 2 or 3 slices of toast. Serve very hot. 

Broiled Beef Cakes 

Scrape round steak fine. Season with salt and pepper. Make 
into small flat cakes and broil over a clear fire; or heat a frying 
pan very hot, rub it over with butter, and cook the cakes two or 
three minutes, browning on both sides. 

Lemon Cream 

2 eggs 2 tb. sugar 

Juice and grated rind of | lemon 

Beat the yolks very light, add sugar and lemon, and place the 
bowl in a dish of boiling water on the fire. Stir till the mixture 
begins to stiffen, then add the beaten whites and stir two minutes 
longer, or till the whole resembles very thick cream ; remove from 
the fire and let cool. Serve in small glass dishes. 

Orange Cream 

Prepare as above, using orange juice in place of lemon. 
For other recipes for Invalid Cookery see recipes under various 
headings. 



CHAPTER XX 
TABLE SERVICE 

IN setting the table, arrange all dishes with system; 
never place them carelessly upon the table. An asbestos 
covering may be placed on the table to prevent warm dishes 
from injuring its polish. Cover the table with a felt or 
covering of canton flannel, or even with an old but clean 
tablecloth; over this, place the tablecloth, having the 
creases straight. Put a centerpiece of linen on the table- 
cloth, and in the center of this place a vase of flowers or a 
small growing plant. 

See that the vinegar and oil cruets, salt and pepper bottles 
are filled and wiped clean. Plan for all the dishes and silver 
that will be required during the meal, putting them in their 
proper places, thus avoiding confusion in serving. 

Lay a " service " plate for each person. Do not allow 
the " cover " (space in front of each person) to be without a 
plate until just before the dessert. At the right of the plate, 
place the knives, soup spoon, and oyster fork. Place the 
glass above the knives, a little to right. At the left of the 
plate, place the forks, small spoons, and napkin. Above the 
forks, place the bread and butter plate with a butter spreader 
lying across it. Place carving knife and fork and table 
spoons to the right of person who is to serve. 

All dishes that are to be heated should be placed in a 
warming oven. On a side table, place all other dishes that 
will be needed during the meal. 

191 



192 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



For breakfast, arrange the coffeepot, sugar, creamer, cups, 
and saucers in a semicircle in front of the hostess, placing 
each cup in its saucer on the table at the left. The cereal 
dishes should be placed at the left of the one who is to serve 
the cereal. 

TABLE SETTING 
INDIVIDUAL COVER 
GS TO 3O Iffcrf&s 




1. " Service " or "place " plate. 3. Soup spoon. 

2. Knife. 4. Tea spoons. 

5. Cup and saucer (to be placed here during meal). 

6. Tumbler. 8. Forks. 

7. Bread and butter plate. 9. Napkin. 



In serving, the waitress should keep in her hand a large 
folded napkin for handling all dishes, using a tray only for 
carrying small dishes. Put a linen doily on all trays and 
on dishes to hold all breadstuffs and cakes, and on the 
plates under the finger bowls. 

When the meal is ready, put the butter on the table and 
fill the glasses with cold water. Announce the meal by say- 
ing, " Dinner (or whatever meal it is) is served." 



TABLE SERVICE 193 

Stand at the left of the person who is serving and take 
with the napkin each plate as it is served, carrying to the 
person for whom it is intended. If it is a soup plate, set it 
down upon the service plate. If it is the plate of the meat 
course, remove the service plate and set the other plate in 
its place. Set dishes down and remove them from the right 
of the person whom you are serving ; pass to the left any dish 
from which they are to serve themselves, holding the dish 
low and firmly. 

See that each person is kept supplied with bread, and that 
the glasses are filled. When each course is finished, remove 
the plates, one at a time, and then the platter, the large 
dishes, and all other dishes not needed for the following 
courses. Do not pile the dishes upon each other in removing 
them. 

Before the dessert is served, brush the crumbs from the 
table using a crumb scraper, or brush the crumbs with a folded 
napkin to a plate. After the last course, remove the plates 
and place a finger bowl in front of each person. Set the 
finger bowl on a plate with a doily and fill one-third full of 
fresh water. Put a half slice of lemon in the bowl. 

Do not let the table become disordered during a meal. 
Move quietly and be alert to anticipate every need of the 
guests. 

When you are hostess, as well as cook and waitress, leave 
the table quietly when necessary, removing dishes and bring- 
ing others as needed. Special care must be taken that all 
is in readiness before sitting down at the table. 

When the meal is over, set the chairs in place and brush 
up all crumbs from the floor before removing dishes. Re- 
move table dishes to pantry or kitchen. Put away any 
food that remains, on dishes kept for that purpose. Scrape 
all dishes well, using a scraper with a rubber edge, or a crust 
o 



194 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

of bread. Pile dishes neatly in place, putting those of a 
size together. 

Brush crumbs from tablecloth, fold in its creases, and put 
away. Put the dining room in order before washing the 
dishes. 

Wash the dishes with hot soapy water, rinse with hot 
water, and wipe with dry towels until perfectly dry. Put 
the dishes on a tray and carry to their proper places. 

Breakfast is usually a simple meal and is served in a man- 
ner to suit the needs of the individual family, but if a course 
breakfast is desired, serve it in the following order : 

1. Fruit. 

2. Cereal with cream or top milk. 

3. Simple meat or egg dish. 
Rolls, toast, etc. 
Coffee or some beverage. 

4. Griddle cakes or waffles and syrup. 

NOTE. Students make list of dishes that may be served for 
breakfast or "breakfast possibilities." Write breakfast menus for 
different seasons of the year, estimating cost. Cook and serve a 
breakfast. 

Order of Courses for a Formal Dinner. 1. Canape's. 

2. Raw oysters or clams, served on the half shell on 

crushed ice with lemon and grated horseradish. 
Wafers. 

3. Soup. Crackers, croutons, or toast sticks. 

4. Fish. Potatoes (boiled, mashed, or fried). Sliced cu- 

cumbers. Brown bread. 

5. Meat Course. Roast, two vegetables, rolls or bread, 

jelly, pickles, etc. 

6. Frozen water ice. 

7. Salad. Crackers, or toasted cheese rounds, cheese 

balls, etc. 



TABLE SERVICE 195 

8. Dessert. 

9. Crackers and cheese. 
10. Coffee. 

Order of Courses for a Family Dinner. 

1. Soup. 

2. Meat, etc. 

3. Salad. 

4. Dessert. 

A formal dinner is not often served in the ordinary house- 
hold, but if a dinner of fewer courses is served, they are ar- 
ranged in the same relative order as in a formal dinner. 

NOTE. Students write list of "dinner possibilities," arranging 
them under "soup," "fish," etc. Write dinner menus for family 
dinners for different seasons of the year, estimating cost. Cook and 
serve a dinner. 

Luncheon. A luncheon menu is similar to a dinner menu, 
with the exception that a fruit is often served first, and a 
lighter meat dish is served in place of a roast. 

For a family luncheon or supper some one hot nutritious 
dish is served with a light salad, fruit, etc. 

NOTE. Each class is to serve in turn a breakfast, luncheon, 
and dinner, planning menus and estimating cost. 



CHAPTER XXI 
DIET AND NUTRITION 

THE amount of food required by an individual will neces- 
sarily vary with the age, occupation, and temperament of 
the individual, and the climate in which he lives. However, 
by many series of experiments and studies of diets, certain 
definite standards of the amount of food needed under vari- 
ous conditions have been established and form a guide which 
may be profitably followed. The total food requirement for 
a given time is spoken of as a dietary. 

The food must furnish the requisite amount of heat and 
energy needed by the body under various conditions, and 
also furnish material for growth of new cells and repair for 
those that are constantly breaking down. 

Heat and Energy Requirement. Foods which contain 
carbon and hydrogen in a form in which they can be oxidized 
by the body yield heat and other forms of energy to the 
body. The fuel value of a food is estimated by the amount 
of heat it will give when oxidized, and is measured by a heat 
unit called a calorie. 

A calorie is the amount of heat required to raise 1 pound 
of water 4 F., or 1 kilogram of water 1 C. 

The body will require varying amounts of heat and energy 
under different conditions. 

Man sleeping requires 65 calories per hour 

Man sitting at rest requires .... 100 calories per hour 
Man at light muscular work requires 170 calories per hour 

196 



DIET AND NUTRITION 197 

Man at active muscular work requires 290 calories per hour 
Man at severe muscular work requires 450 calories per hour 
Man at very severe muscular work 

requires 600 calories per hour 

(Atwater and Benedict) 

FOOD REQUIREMENT AS MODIFIED BY AGE AND SEX 

A woman requires . . .8 amount of food needed by a man 

Boy 14 to 17 years . .8 amount of food needed by a man 

Children 10 to 13 years .6 amount of food needed by a man 

Children 6 to 9 years .5 amount of food needed by a man 

Children 2 to 5 years .4 amount of food needed by a man 

Less than 2 years . . .3 amount of food needed by a man 

APPROXIMATE FOOD REQUIREMENT FOR ONE DAY 
(H. C. SHERMAN) 

Man doing light muscular work . . 3000 to 3500 calories 

Woman doing light muscular work . 2700 calories 

Boy 14 to 17 years 2500 to 3000 calories 

Girl 14 to 17 years 2200 to 2600 calories 

Children 10 to 13 years 1800 to 2200 calories 

Children 6 to 9 years 1400 to 2000 calories 

Children 2 to 5 years 1200 to 1500 calories 

Children 1 to 2 years 900 to 1200 calories 

Protein Requirement. The cells of the body are con- 
stantly breaking down and in the growing body new cells 
are forming, hence food must furnish material for growth 
and repair. 

As the cells contain nitrogen, a food which contains nitro- 
gen in a form in which the body can assimilate it must be 
furnished. Protein foods contain 16 per cent nitrogen and 
are the only foods which do contain it, so they are absolutely 
necessary for the body. 



198 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The carbon and hydrogen of protein are first split off by 
the body and oxidized, yielding heat and energy before the 
nitrogen is available for tissue building. The broken-down 
protein of the cells leaves the body in the form of urea and 
other compounds excreted by the kidneys. The amount of 
protein thus lost to the body each day must be replaced by 
protein foods in order that the body may maintain a protein 
equilibrium. The amount required is variously estimated 
by different authorities. However, as a general estimate, 
about 10 to 12 per cent of the total energy requirement should 
be furnished by protein foods. Thus in a dietary requiring 
3000 calories per day, from 300 to 360 calories should be 
furnished by protein foods. As each gram of protein fur- 
nishes 4 calories, the total amount required would be from 
75 to 90 grams. 

The average American dietary is very high in protein 
content, furnishing about 125 grams (about 4 ounces) of 
protein per day. Protein foods not required for cell growth 
and repair are not stored in the body, but are eliminated by 
the kidneys; hence an increased protein diet means in- 
creased protein elimination. 

NOTE. Students compute food value of amount of common 
foodstuffs obtained for ten cents. Compute dietaries of amount 
of food required by persons of various ages and occupations, by 
the Percentage Composition Method, estimating cost. 



DIET AND NUTRITION 



199 



PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION METHOD 

Dietary for Man doing Light Muscular Work 

Calorie Requirement, 3000 to 3500 calories. 
Protein Requirement, 300 to 420 calories. 



FOOD 


AMOUNT 


PROTEIN 
PER CENT 
OF LB. 


FATS 
PER CENT 
OP LB. 


CARBOHY- 
DRATES 
PER CENT 
OP LB. 


CALORIES 
FURNISHED 


Breakfast 
Banana .... 
Oatmeal .... 
Milk 


|lb. 

1 oz. 
Ib 


0.2 
1.0 
1 1 


0.1 
0.4 

1 3 


3.5 
4.1 
1 6 


65.0 
112.5 
1033+ 


Eggs 


lib. 


3.2 


2.3 




158.7+ 


Ham 


1 oz 


08 


20 




102.1+ 


Bread 


i Ib 


07 


1 


4.4 


100.0 


Butter 
Coffee 


\ oz. 
1 cup 




2.6 




106.5 


Sugar 
Dinner 
Beef, round . . . 
Cabbage .... 
Corn 


1 oz. 

2 oz. 

4 oz. 

2 oz 


2.3 
0.3 
3 


1.6 
1 


6.2 

1.2 
2 4 


109.3 

111.2+ 

28.7+ 
55 


Potatoes .... 
Bread 


8 oz. 
i lb 


0.9 
1 5 


0.05 
02 


7.3 

88 


147.5 
200.0 


Butter 


| iu. 
f OZ 




2 6 




106.5 


Sugar 
Dessert, as cake 
Walnuts .... 
Supper 
Cream Celery Soup 
Cream Crackers 
Bread 


1 OZ. 

2 oz. 
^lb. 

8 oz. 
1 oz. 

i lb 


0.7 
0.5 

1.0 
0.6 
1 5 


1.1 
2.2 

1.4 
0.7 

2 


6.2 
7.9 
0.5 

2.5 
4.3 

88 


109.3 
203.7 
104.1 

117.5 
120.3 
2000 


Butter .... 


6 LU - 

i oz 




2 6 




106.5 


Cheese .... 
Buttermilk . . . 
Apples 


1 oz. 
8 oz. 
12 oz 


1.5 
1.5 

2 


2.1 
0.2 
2 


0.1 
2.4 

8 1 


117.8- 
80.0 
142.5 


Cake 


2 oz. 


0.7 


1.1 


7.9 


203.7 


Total .... 




20.5 


25.15 


88.2 


3002.7 



200 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF FOODS 

PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION 
Bulletin 142, U. S. Dept. Agriculture. 



FOOD MATERIALS AS 
PURCHASED 


REFUSE 


WATER 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES 


ASH 


No. OF 
CALORIES 
PER LB. 


Animal Food 
Beef 


PerCt. 


PerCt. 


Per Ct. 


Per 
Ct. 


Per Ct. 


Per 
Ct. 




Porterhouse steak 


12.7 


52.4 


19.1 


17.9 





0.8 


1100 


Loin .... 


13.3 


52.5 


16.1 


17.5 





0.9 


1025 


Ribs .... 


20.8 


43.8 


13.9 


21.2 





0.7 


1135 


Flank .... 


10.2 


54.0 


17.0 


19.0 





0.7 


1105 


Round .... 


7.2 


60.7 


19.0 


12.8 





1.0 


890 


Veal 
















Breast .... 


21.3 


52.0 


15.4 


11.0 





0.8 


745 


Lee 


14.2 


60.1 


15.5 


7.9 





0.9 


625 


Mutton 
















Leg, hind . . . 


18.4 


51.2 


15.1 


14.7 





0.8 


890 


Loin chops . . 


16.0 


42.0 


13.5 


28.3 





0.7 


1415 


Flank .... 


9.9 


39.0 


13.8 


36.9 





0.6 


1770 


Lamb 
















Breast .... 


19.1 


45.5 


15.4 


19.1 





0.8 


1075 


Leg, hind . 


17.4 


52.9 


15.9 


13.6 





0.9 


860 


Pork, fresh 
















Ham, hind leg . 


10.7 


48.0 


13.5 


25.9 





0.8 


1320 


Loin chops . . 


19.7 


41.8 


13.4 


24.2 





0.8 


1245 


Ham, smoked 


13.6 


34.8 


14.2 


33.4 





4.2 


1635 


Salt pork . . . 





7.9 


1.9 


86.2 





3.9 


3555 


Bacon .... 


7.7 


17.4 


9.1 


62.2 





4.1 


2715 


Chicken, fowls . 


25.9 


47.1 


13.7 


12.3 





0.7 


765 


Turkey . . . 


22.7 


42.4 


16.1 


18.4 





0.8 


1060 


Fish 
















Cod, fresh, dressed 


29.9 


58.5 


11.1 


0.2 





0.8 


220 


Perch, dressed . 


35.1 


50.7 


12.8 


0.7 





0.9 


275 


Cod, salt . . . 


24.9 


40.2 


16.0 


0.4 





18.5 


325 


Salmon, canned . 





63.5 


21.8 


12.1 





2.6 


915 


Sardines . . . 


5.0 


53.6 


23.7 


12.1 





5.3 


950 


Oysters, solids . 





88.3 


6.0 










Eggs .... 


11.2 


65.5 


13.1 


9.3 





0.9 


635 


Butter .... 





11.0 


1.0 


85.0 





3.0 


3410 


Milk, whole . 





87.0 


3.3 


4.0 


5.0 


0.7 


310 


Milk, skim . . 





90.5 


3.4 


0.3 


5.1 


0.7 


165 


Buttermilk . . 





91.0 


3.0 


0.5 


4.8 


0.7 


160 


Cream .... 





74.0 


2.5 


18.5 


4.5 


0.5 


865 


Cheese .... 





34.2 


25.9 


33.7 


2.4 


3.8 


1885 



DIET AND NUTRITION 



201 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF FOODS Continued 



FOOD MATERIALS AS 
PURCHASED 


REFUSE 


WATER 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES 


Asa 


No. OF 
CALORIES 
PER LB. 




PerCt. 


Per Ct. 


Per Ct. 


Per 

r* 


Per Ct. 


Per 




Vegetable Foods 








Ut. 




Ct. 




Entire wheat flour 





11.4 


13.8 


1.9 


71.9 


1.0 


1650 


Graham flour 





11.3 


13.3 


2.2 


71.4 


1.8 


1645 


Wheat flour, high 
















grade and me- 
















dium .... 





12.0 


11.4 


1.0 


75.1 


0.5 


1635 


Macaroni . . . 





10.3 


13.4 


0.9 


74.1 


1.3 


1645 


Corn meal . . . 





12.5 


9.2 


1.9 


75.4 


1.0 


1635 


Oat breakfast 
















food .... 





7.7 


16.7 


7.3 


66.2 


2.1 


1800 


Rice .... 





12.3 


8.0 


0.3 


79.0 


0.4 


1620 


White bread . . 





35.3 


9.2 


1.3 


53.1 


1.1 


1200 


Graham bread . 





35.7 


8.9 


1.8 


52.1 


1.5 


1195 


Cake .... 





19.9 


6.3 


9.0 


63.3 


1.5 


1630 


Cream crackers . 





6.8 


9.7 


12.1 


69.7 


1.7 


1925 


Sugars, etc. 
















Molasses . 














70.0 





1225 


Candy .... 










96.0 




1680 


Honey .... 










81.0 




1420 


Sugar, granulated 










100.0 




1750 


Maple syrup . 










71.4 




1250 


Vegetables 
















Beans, dried . . 





12.6 


22.5 


1.8 


59.6 


3.5 


1520 


Beans, string 
















fresh .... 


7.0 


83.0 


2.1 


0.3 


6.9 


0.7 


170 


Beets .... 


20.0 


70.0 


1.3 


0.1 


7.7 


0.9 


160 


Cabbage . 


15.0 


77.7 


1.4 


0.2 


4.8 


0.9 


115 


Celery .... 


20.0 


75.6 


0.9 


0.1 


2.6 


0.8 


65 


Corn, green, edible 
















portion . . . 





75.4 


3.1 


1.1 


19.7 


0.7 


440 


Cucumbers 


15.0 


81.0 


0.7 


0.2 


2.6 


0.4 


65 


Lettuce . . . 


15.0 


80.5 


1.0 


0.2 


2.5 


0.8 


65 


Onions .... 


10.0 


78.9 


1.4 


0.3 


8.9 


0.5 


190 


Mushrooms . 





88.1 


3.5 


0.4 


6.8 


1.2 


185 


Peas, dried 





9.5 


24.6 


1.0 


62.0 


2.9 


1565 


Peas, fresh, 
















shelled . . . 





74.6 


7.0 


0.5 


16.9 


1.0 


440 


Potatoes . . . 


20.0 


62.6 


1.8 


0.1 


14.7 


0.8 


295 


Spinach 





92.3 


2.1 


0.3 


3.2 


2.1 


95 


Tomatoes . . . 





94.3 


0.9 


0.4 


3.9 


0.5 


100 


Turnips . . . 


30.0 


62.7 


0.9 


0.1 


5.7 


0.6 


120 



202 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF FOODS Continued 



FOOD MATERIALS AS 
PURCHASED 


REFUSE 


WATER 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES 


ASH 


No. OF 
CALORIES 
PER LB. 




Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per 


Per ct. 


Per 




Canned Vegetables 








ct. 




ct. 




Baked beans . . 





68.9 


6.9 


2.5 


19.6 


2.1 


555 


Peas, green . . 





85.3 


3.6 


0.2 


9.8 


1.1 


235 


Corn, green . . 





76.1 


2.8 


1.2 


19.0 


0.9 


430 


Fruits, etc., fresh 
















Apples .... 


25.0 


63.3 


0.3 


0.3 


10.8 


0.3 


190 


Bananas . . . 


35.0 


48.9 


0.8 


0.4 


14.3 


0.6 


260 


Grapes .... 


25.0 


58.0 


1.0 


1.2 


14.4 


0.4 


295 


Oranges . . . 


27.0 


63.4 


0.6 


0.1 


8.5 


0.4 


150 


Strawberries . 


5.0 


85.9 


0.9 


0.6 


7.0 


0.6 


150 


Watermelon . 


59.4 


37.5 


0.2 


0.1 


2.7. 


0.1 


50 


Fruits, dried 
















Apples .... 




28.1 












Dates .... 


10.0 


13.8 


1.9 


2.5 


70.6 


1.2 


1275 


Figs .... 





18.8 


4.3 


0.3 


74.2 


2.4 


1280 


Nuts 
















Almonds . . . 


45.0 


2.7 


11.5 


30.2 


95 


1.1 


1515 


Cocoanuts 


48.8 


7.2 


2.9 


25.9 


14.3 


0.9 


1295 


Hickory nuts 


62.2 


1.4 


5.8 


25. 


4.3 


0.8 


1145 


Peanuts . . . 


24.5 


6.9 


19.5 


29.1 


18.5 


1.5 


1775 


Miscellaneous 
















Chocolate . . . 





5.9 


12.9 


48.7 


30.3 


2:2 


5625 


Cocoa, powdered 





4.6 


21.6 


28.9 


37.7 


7.2 


2160 



THE "100 CALORIE PORTION" METHOD 

To make the methods of determining food value more 
graphic and more easily ascertained in everyday life, tables 
have been prepared stating the weight of various foods re- 
quired to furnish " 100 calories," also stating their approxi- 
mate bulk; these are called " standard" or " 100 calorie" 
portions. 



DIET AND NUTRITION 203 

EXAMPLES : Small glass of whole milk furnishes 100 cal- 
ories. 

1 large egg furnishes 100 calories. 
1 ordinary pat of butter furnishes 100 calories. 
This method makes it possible to determine roughly the 
amount of heat and other forms of energy furnished in the 
daily diet. 

NOTE. Student weigh out 100 calorie portions of various foods 
to train the eye to estimate quickly the approximate values of foods. 
(See table of 100 calorie portions.) 

TO FIND "100 CALORIE PORTIONS" FROM PERCENT- 
AGE COMPOSITION TABLE (H. C. SHERMAN) 

The number of ounces in a pound (16 oz.) is to the num- 
ber of calories in any given food as x is to 100 (calorie 
portion). 

EXAMPLE : (Milk 325 calories to 1 pound) 

16 (oz.):325::z:100 = 4.9 
Hence 4.9 oz. of milk will yield upon oxidation 100 calories. 

NOTE. Students compute 100 calorie portions of various foods 
from "Percentage Composition of Food," comparing results with 
table of "100 Calorie Portions." Compute dietaries of amount 
of food required by persons of various ages and occupations, by 100 
Calorie Portion Method, estimating cost. Cook and serve a dinner 
or luncheon, serving the food in 100 calorie portions . 



204 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



100-CALORIE PORTION METHOD 

Dietary for Man doing Light Muscular Work 

Total calorie requirement 3000 to 3500 calories. 

Protein requirement, 12% total calories 360 to 420 calories. 



FOOD 


AMOUNT 


PROTEIN 
CALORIES 


FATS 
CALORIES 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES 
CALORIES 


TOTAL 
CALORIES 


Breakfast 












Prunes . . 


3 


3 





97 


100 


Oat meal 


If large 












serving 


18 





75 


100 


Milk . . . 


Small glass 


19 


52 


29 


100 


Eggs 


2 large 


64 


136 





200 


Ham, cooked 


Small serv- 












ing 


14 


86 





100 


Bread . . 


1 slice 


13 


6 


81 


100 


Butter . . 


1 pat 


0.5 


99.5 





100 


Coffee . . 
















Sugar . . 


3 teaspoons 








100 


100 


Dinner 












Beef, round 


1 serving 


90 


10 





100 


Cabbage 


3f oz. 


10 


4 


36 


50 


Corn . . . 


1 side dish 


13 


10 


77 


100 


Potatoes, 












mashed . 


1 serving 


10 


25 


65 


100 


Bread . . 


2 slices 


26 


12 


162 


200 


Butter . . 


1 pat 


0.5 


99.5 





100 


Pickles . . 


1.4 oz. 


1.8 


1.5 


6.7 


10 


Tea . . . 
















Sugar . . 


3 teaspoons 








100 


100 


Apple pis . 
Walnuts 


1 piece 
6 


15 

10 


96 

83 


189 

7 


300 
100 


Supper 
Bean soup . 


1 large plate 


20 


20 


60 


100 


Crackers 


3 Uneeda 


9.4 


20 


70.6 


100 


Cheese . 


If -in. cube 


25 


73 


2 


100 


Bread . . 


2 slices 


26 


12 


162 


200 


Butter . . 


1 pat 


0.5 


99.5 





100 


Buttermilk 


If glass 


34 


12 


54 


100 


Baked apples 


3.3 oz. 


2 


5 


93 


100 


Gingerbread 


1 square 


12 


46 


142 


200 


Total . . 




436.7 


1015 


1608.3 


3060 



DIET AND NUTRITION 



205 



TABLE OF 100-CALORIE PORTIONS 

FOOD VALUES 

"Food and Dietetics," Norton, Published by American School of 
Home Economics, Chicago 



FOOD 


PORTION CON- 
TAINING 100 
CALORIES (APP.) 


GRAMS 


OUNCES 


PRO- 
TEIN 


FAT 


CAR- 
BOHY- 
DRATES 


Cooked Meals 














Beef, round, boiled, fat 


Small serving 


36 


1.3 


40 


60 





Beef, round, boiled, 














lean 


Large serving 


62 


2.2 


90 


10 





Lamb chops, boiled 


1 small chop 


27 


0.96 


24 


76 





Lamb, leg, roasted 


Ordinary serving 


50 


1.8 


40 


60 





Ham, boiled, fat 


Small serving 


20.5 


0.73 


14 


86 





Veal, leg, boiled . . 


Small serving 


67.5 


2.4 


73 


27 





Uncooked Meats, Edible 














Portion 














Beef loin, lean . . 


Ordinary serving 


50 


1.8 


40 


60 





Porterhouse steak . 


Small serving 


36 


1.3 


32 


68 





Sirloin steak . . . 


Small serving 


40 


1.4- 


31 


69 





Beef ribs .... 


Ordinary serving 


52 


1.8 


42 


58 





Beef, round . . . 


Ordinary serving 


63 


2.2 


54 


46 





Chicken, broilers 


Large serving 


90 


3.2 


79 


21 





Liver, veal . . . 


2 small servings 


79 


2.8 


61 


39 





Mutton, leg . . . 


Ordinary serving 


50 


1.8 


41 


59 





Pork chops, loin 


Very small serving 


27 


0.97 


18 


82 





Turkey 


2 small servings 


33 


1.2 


29 


71 





Vegetables 














Asparagus, cooked . 




206 


7.19 


18 


63 


19 


Baked beans, canned 


Small side dish 


75 


2.66 


21 


18 


61 


Beans, string, cooked 


5 servings 


480 


16.66 


15 


48 


37 


Beets, cooked . . 


3 servings 


245 


8.7 


2 


23 


75 


Cabbage .... 




310 


11.0 


20 


8 


72 


Carrots, fresh . . 




215 


7.6 


10 


8 


82 


Cauliflower (as pur- 














chased) .... 




312 


11.0 


23 


15 


62 


Celery (edible portion) 




540 


19.0 


24 


5 


71 


Corn, cooked . . . 


One side dish 


99 


3.5 


13 


10 


77 


Cucumbers (edible 














portion) .... 




565 


20.0 


18 


10 


72 


Lettuce (edible por- 














tion) 




505 


18.0 


25 


14 


61 


Mushrooms (as pur- 














chased) .... 




215 


7.6 


31 


8 


61 


Onions, cooked . . 


2 large servings 


240 


8.4 


12 


40 


48 


Parsnips, cooked 




163 


5.84 


10 


34 


56 


Peas, green, cooked 


One serving 


85 


3.0 


23 


27 


50 


Potatoes, baked . . 


One good-sized 


86 


3.05 


11 


1 


88 



206 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



TABLE OF 100-CALORIE PORTIONS Continued 



FOOD 


PORTION CON- 
TAINING 100 
CALORIES (APP.) 


GRAMS 


OUNCES 


PRO- 
TEIN 


FAT 


CAR- 
BOHY- 
DRATES 


Potatoes, mashed 


One serving 


89 


3.14 


10 


25 


65 


Radishes (as pur- 














chased) .... 




480 


17.0 


18 


23 


79 


Rhubarb (edible part) 




430 


15.0 


10 


27 


63 


Spinach, cooked . . 


2 ordinary servings 


174 


6.1 


15 


66 


19 


Tomatoes, canned . 




431 


15.2 


21 


7 


72 


Turnips (edible part) 


2 large servings 


246 


8.7 


13 


4 


83 


Fruits, dried 














Apples 




34 


1.2 


3 


7 


90 


Dates (edible part) . 


3 large servings 


28 


0.99 


2 


7 


91 


Figs (edible part) 


1 large serving 


31 


1.1 


5 





95 


Prunes (as purchased) 


3 


38 


1.35 


3 





97 


Raisins 


25 


28 


1.0 


3 


9 


88 


Fruits, fresh or cooked 














Apples (as purchased) 


2 


206 


7.3 


3 


7 


90 


Apples, baked . . 




94 


3,3 


2 


5 


93 


Bananas (edible part) 


1 large 


100 


3.5 


5 


5 


90 


Cantaloupe . . . 




243 


8.6 


6 





94 


Grapes (as purchased) 




136 


4.8 


5 


15 


80 


Oranges (as pur- 














chased) .... 


1 large 


270 


9.4 


6 


3 


91 


Peaches (as pur- 














chased) .... 


3 ordinary 


290 


10.0 


7 


2 


91 


Strawberries . 


2 servings 


260 


9.1 


10 


15 


75 


Watermelon . . 




760 


27.0 


6 


6 


88 


Dairy Products 














Butter 


Ordinary pat 


12.5 


0.44 


0.5 


99.5 





Buttermilk . . . 


H glass 


275 


9.7 


34 


12 


54 


Cheese, American . 


1 cubic inch 


22 


0.77 


25 


73 


2 


Cream 


J ordinary glass 


49 


1.7 


5 


86 


9 


Milk, skimmed . 


U glass 


255 


9.4 


37 


7 


56 


Milk, whole . . 


Small glass 


140 


4.9 


19 


52 


29 


Cakes, Pastries, etc. 














Cake, chocolate layer 


J ordinary piece 


28 


0.98 


7 


22 


71 


Cake, gingerbread . 


5 ordinary piece 


27 


0.96 


6 


23 


71 


Custard .... 


Ordinary cup 


122 


4.29 


26 


56 


18 


Doughnuts . . . 


1 doughnut 


23 


0.8 


6 


45 


49 


Pie, apple .... 


| piece 


38 


1.3 


5 


32 


63 


Pudding, cream rice 


Small serving 


75 


2.65 


8 


13 


79 


Tapioca, cooked . . 


Ordinary serving 


108 


3.85 


1 


1 


98 


Sweets and Pickles 














Honey 


4 teaspoons 


30 


1.05 


10 


3 


87 


Molasses .... 




35 


1.2 


0.5 





99.5 


Olives, green (edible 














portion) .... 


7 


32 


1.1 


1 


84 


15 



DIET AND NUTRITION 



207 



TABLE OF 100-CALORIE PORTIONS Continued 



FOOD 


PORTION CON- 
TAINING 100 
CALORIES (APP.) 


GRAMS 


OUNCES 


PRO- 
TEIN 


FAT 


CARBO- 
HY- 
DRATES 


Pickles, mixed . . 




415 


14.6 


18 


15 


67 


Sugar, granulated . 


3 teaspoons or 1| 














lumps 


24 


0.86 








100 


Syrup, maple . . . 


4 teaspoons 


35 


1.2 








100 


Nuts, Edible Portion 














Almonds .... 


8 to 15 


15 


0.53 


13 


77 


10 


Cocoanut .... 




16 


0.57 


4 


77 


19 


Hickory nuts . . 




13 


0.47 


9 


85 


6 


Peanuts .... 


13 double 


18 


0.62 


20 


63 


17 


Walnuts, California 


About 6 


14 


0.48 


10 


83 


7 


Cereals and Breadstuffs 














Soda crackers . . 


3| Uneeda biscuit 




0.83 


9.4 


20 


70.6 


Bread, brown . . 


Ordinary thick slice 


43 


1.5 


9 


7 


84 


Bread, white, home 














made 


Ordinary thick slice 


38 


1.3 


13 


6 


81 


Corn flakes . . . 


Ordinary cereal 














dish full 


27 


0.97 


11 


1 


88 


Corn meal .... 




27 


0.96 


10 


5 


85 


Crackers, Graham . 


2 


23 


0.82 


9 


20 


71 


Hominy, cooked 


Large serving 


120 


4.2 


11 


2 


87 


Macaroni, cooked . 


Ordinary serving 


110 


3.85 


14 


15 


71 


Oatmeal, cooked 


li serving 


159 


5.6 


18 


7 


75 


Rice, cooked . . 


Ordinary cereal 














dish 


87 


3.1 


10 


1 


89 


Shredded wheat . . 


1 biscuit 


27 


0.94 


13 


4.5 


82.5 


Miscellaneous 














Eggs 


1 large 


59 


2.1 


32 


68 





Soup, beef .... 




380 


13.0 


69 


14 


17 


Soup, bean . . . 


Very large plate 


150 


5.4 


20 


20 


60 


Soup, cream celery . 


2 plates 


180 


6.3 


16 


47 


37 


Consomme . . . 




830 


29.0 


85 





15 


Chocolate, bitter 


square 


16 


0.56 


8 


72 


20 


Ice cream .... 




45 


1.6 


5 


62 


38 


Boiled salad dressing 






1.4 


10.2 


88.6 


1.2 


Chocolate, beverage 


f of ordinary cup 


84 


3 


8.8 


45.7 


44.5 



REFERENCE BOOKS 



Physiological and Pathological Chemistry 
Chemistry of Food and Nutrition . 
Practical Dietetics ..... 
Elementary Study of Chemistry 

Human Foods 

Physiological Chemistry .... 

Pure Foods 

Foods 

Bacteria, Yeast, and Molds 

Story of Bacteria 

Boston Cook Book 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book 
12 volumes of the Library of Home 
Economics ..... 

Bulletins of the U. S. Department of 

Agriculture 
Elements of the Theory and Practice of 

Cookery 



G. Bunge 

Henry C. Sherman, Ph.D. 

Robert Hutchinson 

McPherson and Henderson 

Harry Snyder 

W. B. Halliburton 

John C. Olsen 

A. H. Church 

H. W. Conn 

T. Mitchell Prudden 

Mrs. Mary A. Lincoln 

Fannie M. Farmer 

American School of Home 
Economics, Chicago 



Williams and Fisher 



208 



INDEX 



Abbreviations, table of, 16. 
Acetic fermentation, 136-137. 
Acids and alkalies : 

experiments with, 123, 124. 
proportion to use in cooking, 126. 
Air, experiments with, 7, 8. 
Albumen, experiments with, 69. 
Albumen drinks, 188. 
Albuminized milk, 186. 
Albuminoids, 71. 
Alcoholic fermentation, 136, 137. 
Alkalies, experiments with, 123, 124. 
Alum baking powders, 126. 
Angel food, 158. 
Apples : 

composition of, 46. 
recipes for 

apple compote, 49. 

apple pie, 152. 

apple sauce, 48. 

apple water, 188. 

baked apples, No. 1, 48. 

baked apples, No. 2, 48. 

dried apple sauce, 48. 

Dutch apple cake, 127. 

escalloped apples, 164. 
varieties of, 48. 

Bacon, 95. 

Bacteria, 50-51. 

Baking powder biscuit, 127. 

Baking powder mixtures, 

construction rule for, 126. 
Baking powders, 124. 
Banana fritters, 149. 
Batters and doughs, 126. 
Bavarian cream, 179. 
Beans : 

baked, 40. 

baked bean soup, 61. 



Beans Cont. 
salad, 172. 
succotash, 41. 
Beaten frosting, 163. 
Bechamel sauce, 38. 
Beef: 

diagram and food uses of, 79. 
market cuts, illustrated, 80-82. 
recipes for 

braised beef, 90. 
broiled beef cakes, 190. 
cottage pie, 97. 
dried beef, creamed, 97. 
Hamburg steak, 96. 
pot roast, 91. 
roast beef, 92. 
roast beef gravy, 94. 
steak, broiled, 94. 
steak, pan broiled, 94. 
stew, 89, 

tea, beef, No. 1, 187. 
tea, beef, No. 2, 187. 
to judge, 80. 
Beet sugar, 43. 
Berwick sponge cake, 158. 
Beverages, 117. 
Biscuit, baking powder, 127. 
Boiled frosting, 162. 
Boiling, experiments, 14, 15. 
Boiling point, 16. 
Boston brown bread, 129. 
Bouillon, 65. 
Braised beef, 90. 
Braising, 90. 
Bread: 

baking of, 139. 

cost of, 142. 

proportion of ingredients, 138. 

recipes for 

Boston brown, 149. 



209 



210 



INDEX 



Bread, recipes for Cont. 
entire wheat, 149. 
graham, 141. 
oatmeal, 141. 
rye, 141. 
white, 140. 

Bread crumbs, to prepare, 149. 
Breaded veal, 96. 
Bread griddle cakes, 131. 
Bread pudding, 164. 
Breakfast, 

menu, 194. 

possibilities, 194. 
Broiled beef cakes, 190. 
Broiled steak and chops, 94. 
Broiling : 

general method, 93. 

pan broiling, 94. 

time table f^f, 93. 

to broil with gas, 94. 
Broths : 

general discussion, 186. 

mutton, 188. 

Brown mushroom sauce, 96. 
Brown sauce, 24. 
Brown soup stock, 64. 
Burning point, experiments, 146. 
Butter : 

composition of, 110. 

renovated, 111. 
Butter cakes, 156. 
Buttered crumbs, 35. 
Butterine, 111. 

Cabbage : 
boiled, 40. 
escalloped, 40. 
salad, 174. 
Caffeine, 19, 118. 
Cakes : 

baking of, 157. 

cost of, 161. 

general classification, 156. 

recipes for 

angel food, 158. 

Berwick sponge, 158. 

devil's food, 162. 

Dutch apple, 127. 

one egg, 161. 



Cakes, recipes for Cont. 
Park Street, 161. 
spice, 162. 
sponge, 157. 
white, 161. 
See cookies. 
Calcium, 2, 168. 
Calorie : 

definition, 196. [203. 

one-hundred-calorie portions, 202, 

table of, 205. 
Candy making : 
cost of, 46. 
recipes for 

cream mints, 46. 
fondant, 45. 

Canning and preserving : 
cost of preserved fruit, 54. 
general method, 52. 
methods of, 53. 
recipes for 

Chili sauce, 58. 
grape juice, 55. 
peaches, 55. 
pears, 55. 
plums, 55. 
syrup for fruit, 54. 
tomatoes, 54. 
tomatoes for soup, 54. 
Caramel : 
recipes for 
custard, 166. 
syrup, 131. 
Carbohydrates, 20. 
Carbon, 2, 3. 

Carbon dioxide, test for, 8. 
Carrots : 

in Bechamel sauce, 37. 
to prepare, 37. 
Cauliflower soup, 66. 
Celery soup, 60. 
Cellulose, 22. 
Cereals : 

amount for ten cents, 28. 
cooking of, 27. 
general discussion, 25. 
table of composition, 26. 
time table for cooking, 27. 
to serve, 29. 



INDEX 



211 



Charlotte Russe, 180. 
Cheese : 

care of, 112. 
composition of, 112. 
experiments with, 112. 
recipes for 

American rarebit, 113. 
cottage, 113. 
croquettes, 150. 
filling for sandwiches, 176. 
fondue, 114. 
sandwiches, 176. 
Welsh rarebit, No. 1, 113. 
Welsh rarebit, No. 2, 113. 
Chemical changes, 3. 
Chemical formulas and equations, 66. 
Chemical reactions in bread making, 
Chemical symbols, 5. [137. 

Chemistry, science of, 3. 
Chicken : 
cost of, 100. 
recipes for 
creamed, 102. 
escalloped, 98. 
pressed, 99. 
roast, 102. 

gravy for, 102. 
stuffing for, 102. 
salad, 175. 
stewed, 102. 
Chili sauce, 58. 
Chlorine, 2. 
Chops : 
lamb, 94. 
pork, 95. 

Classification of foods, 18. 
Cocoa and chocolate : 
beverage, 121. 
chocolate frosting, 163. 
cocoa, 122. 
cost of, 122. 
general discussion, 121. 
Codfish : 
recipes for, 
balls, 105. 
creamed, 105. 
Coffee : 

boiled, 120. 
cost of, 119. 



Coffee Cont. 

experiments with, 118. 
filtered, 120. 
general discussion, 119. 
Collagen, 6. 
Combustion : 

products of, 8, 9. 
Composition : 
of body, 2. 
of foods, 200. 
Compounds, 1. 
Conduction, experiment illustrating, 

11, 12. 
Construction rule for baking powder 

mixtures, 126. 
Convection, experiment illustrating, 

12. 

Cookies : 
recipes for 

cookies, plain, 159. 
ginger snaps, 160. 
hermits, 159. 
jumbles, 160. 
sand tarts, 160. 
soft ginger, 160. 
soft molasses, 158. 
sour cream, 159. 
sponge drops, 159. 
Cooking, processes of, 14. 
Corn : 

general discussion, 25. 
recipe for 
bread, 128. 
fritters, 41. 
muffins, 128. 
mush, 27. 
soup, 66. 

Cornstarch pudding, 25. 
Cottage pie, 97. 
Cottage pudding, 164. 
Cracker gruel, 188. 
Crackers, for soup, 67. 
Cranberries : 

general discussion, 49. 
recipe for 
jelly, 49. 
pie, 154. 
sauce, 49. 
tart, 155. 



212 



INDEX 



Cream of tartar baking powder, 125. 
Cream toast, 190. 
Creamy sauce, 167. 
Croquettes : 
recipes for 

cheese, 150. 

potato, 148. 

veal, etc., 148. 
Croutons, 67. 
Crullers, 148. 
Custards : 
recipe for 

baked, 74. 

caramel, 166. 

pie, 153. 

soft, 179. 

Devil's food cake, 162. 
Dextrin : 

experiments with, 22. 

identification test for, 22. 
Diet and Nutrition, 196. 
Dietary : 

average American, 198. 

one-hundred-calorie-portion 
method, 202. 

percentage composition method, 
Dinner menus : [199. 

family, 195. 

formal, 194. 
Doughnuts, 147. 
Dried beef, creamed, 97. 
Dumplings, 89. 
Dutch apple cake, 127. 

Eggs: 

composition of, 72. 
prices of, 72. 
recipes for 

creamed, 74. 

eggnog, 188. 

egg toast, 74. 

hard cooked, 74. 

omelets (see omelets). 

poached, 74. 

salad, 174. 

sandwiches, 175. 

soft cooked, 74. 
section of hen's, 72. 



Cont. 

to add as thickening, 38. 

to preserve, 72. 
Elements : 

definition of, 1. 

present in human body, 2. 
Emulsion, 144. 
Equations, chemical, 6. 
Equivalent weights and measures, 17. 
Extractives, 61-71. 

Fat proof coating, 149. 
Fats: 

composition of, 143, 144. 
cost of, 146. 
emulsion of, 144. 
saponification of, 145. 
sources of, 143. 
to render, 151. 
Fehling solution, 44. 
Fermentation, 136. 
Fish: 

composition of, 103. 
recipes for 
baked, 104. 
boiled, 104. 
broiled, 103. 
codfish balls, 105. 
codfish, creamed, 105. 
fried, 105, 149. 
lobster farci, 106. 
oysters, creamed, 107. 
oysters, escalloped, 107. 
planked, 103. 
salad, 175. 
salmon mold, 106. 

sauce for, 106. 
sardines on toast, 106. 
turbot, 105. 

tests for freshness of, 103. 
Flame, 9. 
Flash point, 10. 
Fluorine, 2. 
Foamy sauce, 167. 
Fondant, 45. 
Foods : 

classification of, 18. 
preservation of, 50. 
requirements, 196, 197. 



INDEX 



213 



Force meat balls, 67. 
French fried potatoes, 147. 
Fried food, objections to, 146. 
Fried potatoes, 147. 
Fritter batter, 149. 

banana fritters, 149. 

corn fritters, 41. 
Frostings for cake : 

beaten, 163. 

boiled, 162. 

chocolate, 163. 

marshmallow, 163. 

plain, 162. 
Fruits : 

care and preparation of, 47. 

composition of, 46. 

methods of preserving, 53. 
Frying : 

cost of fats, 146. 

general method, 145. 

rules for testing, 147. 
Fuels, 10. 
Fungi, classification of, 50. 

Gas, 10. 

Gelatine, 71, 177. 
Gelatine desserts : 
recipes for 

apple compote, 49. 

Bavarian cream, 179. 

Charlotte Russe, 180. 

jellied prunes, 178. 

lemon jelly, 178. 

Neapolitan pudding, 179. 

snow pudding, 179. 

Spanish cream, 180. 
Gingerbread, 130. 
Ginger cookies, 160. 
Ginger snaps, 160. 
Gliadin, 71. 
Globulin, 61, 69, 70. 
Glucose, 43. 
Glutenin, 71. 
Graham bread, 141. 
Graham gems, 128. 
Graham pudding, 165. 
Grape jam, 57. 
Grape jelly, 56. 
Grape juice, 55. 



Grapes, spiced, 57. 
Gravy : 
recipes for 
chicken, 102. 
roast beef, 92. 
Griddle cakes : 
general rule, 130. 
recipes for 
bread, 131. 
sour milk, 130. 
waffles, 131. 
Gruels : 

general discussion, 187. 
recipes for 
cracker, 188. 
flour, 188. 
oatmeal, 188. 

Ham: 

broiled, 95. 

sandwiches, 76. 
Hamburg steak, 96. 
Hash, 97. 

Hashed browned potatoes, 35. 
Heat, sources of, 11. 
Heat and energy : 

requirement, 196. 

tables for, 196, 197. 
Hermits, 159. [28. 

Home made "ready to eat" cereals, 
Hydrogen, 2, 4. 
Hydrogen sulphide, 5. 

Ice, 117. 
Ice cream : 
flavoring, 183. 
general rule, 182. 
recipes for 

cream foundation, 183. 

custard foundation, 183. 

strawberry, 183. 
to freeze, 181. 
Ices: 

general discussion, 181. 
recipes for 

lemon, 182. 

pineapple, 182. 
suggestions for, 183. 
to freeze, 181. 



214 



INDEX 



Identification tests : 

dextrin, 22. 

fat, 165. 

pectin, 47. 

protein, 69. 

starch, 21. 

sugar, glucose, 44. 
Indian pudding, 165. 
Inorganic matter, 5. 
Invalid cookery : 

diet for convalescent, 184. 

light, 184, 189. 

liquid, 184, 185. 

to set tray, 185. 
Iodine, 2. 
Irish stew, 90. 
Iron : 

general discussion, 169. 

table of iron in foods, 170. 

Jelly: 

due to pectin, 47. 
general directions for, 56. 
general discussion, 55. 
recipes for 

crab apple, 56. 

cranberry, 49. 

grape, 56. 

lemon, 178. 
Jumbles, 160. 
Junket, 187. 

Kindling point, 10. 

Lactic fermentation, 136. 
Lactose, 43, 109. 
Lamb : 

chops, 94. 

diagram and food uses of, 84. 

market cuts (illustrations), 

side of, 85. 

Leavening, methods of, 123. 
Lemonade : 

recipes for 
flaxseed, 189. 
plain, 189. 
Lemon butter, 96. 
Lemon cream, 190. 
Lemon ice, 182. 



Lemon jelly, 178. 
Lemon pie, 154. 
Lemon sauce, 127. 
Lettuce : 

to freshen, 171. 

to keep, 172. 
Lettuce salad, 174. 
Lettuce sandwiches, 175. 
Lime : 

foods poor in, 169. 

foods rich in, 169. 
Lobster farci, 106. 
Luncheon, order of courses for, 194. 

Macaroni : 

general discussion, 41. 
recipes for 

baked with cheese, 42. 
with tomato sauce, 42. 
Magnesium, 2. 
Maple sugar, 43. 
Marmalades : 
recipes for 

grape jam, 57. 
peach, 57. 
pear ginger, 57. 
plum conserve, 56. 
spiced grapes, 57. 
Marshmallow frosting, 163. 
Measurements, table of, 16. 
Meat and vegetable sauces', 24. 
Meats : 

general methods of cooking, 88. 
methods of cooking in water, 

62. 

proteins present, 61. 
structure of fiber, 78. 
table of composition of, 77. 
See beef, mutton, pork, veal, 

warmed-over meats, 97. 
recipes for 

cottage pie, 97. 
escalloped chicken, 98. 
hash, 97. 

minced mutton, 98. 
meat rechauffe, 98. 
meat souffle, 98. 
pressed chicken, 99. 
See croquettes. 



INDEX 



215 



Menus : 

breakfast, 194. 

dinner, 194. 

lunch, 195. 
Meringue, 154. 
Milk: 

albuminized, 186. 

composition of, 108. 

experiments with, 110. 

general discussion, 108. 

in invalid diet, 185. 

milk products, see butter, cheese. 

milk toast, 190. 

pasteurized, 186. 

sterilized, 186. 
Mince pie, 154. 
Mineral foods : 

uses in body, 168. 
Molasses cookies, 158. 
Molds, 50. 
Mushroom sauce : 

brown, 96. 

white, 98. 
Mutton : 

diagram and food uses of, 84. 

market cuts, illustrated, 86. 

side of, 85. 

recipes for 

chops, broiled, 94. 
Irish stew, 90. 
minced, 98. 
roast, 93. 

Nitrogen, 2, 4. 
Nitrogenous foods, 4. 

See protein. 
Nut bread : 

brown, 129. 

white, 129. 

Oatmeal, 25. 

Oatmeal gruel, 188. 

Oats, 25. 

Oleomargarine, tests for, 111. 

Omelets : 

general rules for, 75. 
recipes for, 
beaten, 75. 
creamy, 75. 



Omelets, recipes for Cont. 
ham, 75. 
potato, 76. 
Spanish, 76. 
One egg cake, 161. 
One-hundred-calorie portions : 

dietary, example of, 204. 

explanation of, 202. 

table of, 205. 

to compute, 203. 
Onions : 

boiled, 40. 

general discussion, 39. 

to mince, 36. 
Orange cream, 190. 
Orange shortcake, 128. 
Organic matter, 5. 
Oxidation, 8. 
Oxygen : 

description of, 3. 

element, 2. 

experiments with, 7. 
Oysters, 

creamed, 107. 

escalloped, 107.. 

Parkerhouse rolls, 140. 
Park Street cake, 161 
Parsley, to chop, 36. 
Pasteurization, 52. 
Pasteurized milk, 186. 
Pastry : 

recipe for, 152 

requisites for good, 150. 

shortening for, 151. 

See pie. 

Peach marmalade, 57. 
Peach preserves, 55. 
Pear ginger, 57. 
Pear preserves, 55. 
Pectin, indentification test for, 47. 
Peppers, stuffed green, 39. 
Phosphate baking powders, 125. 
Phosphorus, 2-5. 
Physical change, 2. 
Physics, science of, 3. 
Pickles, 

cucumber, 58. 

sweet, 57. 



216 



INDEX 



Pie: 

recipes for 
apple, 152. 
cranberry, 154. 
custard, 153. 
lemon, 154. 
mince, 154. 
pumpkin, 153. 
Pineapple ice, 182. 
Pinwheel biscuit, 128. 
Plants, classification of, 50. 
Plum conserve, 56. 
Plum preserves, 55. 
Pop-overs, 130. 
Pork: 

diagram and food uses of, 87. 
general discussion, 86. 
recipes for 
bacon, 95. 
chops, 95. 
ham, broiled, 95. 
side of, 88. 
Potassium, 2. 
Potatoes : 

general discussion, 33. 
recipes for 
au gratin, 35. 
baked, 34. 
boiled, 33. 
cakes, 36. 
creamed, 35. 
croquettes, 148. 
escalloped, 34. 
French fried, 147. 
fried, 147. 

hashed browned, 35. 
Lyonnaise, 34. 
mashed, 34. 
puff, 36. 
salad, 174. 
soup, cream of, 60. 
stewed, 35. 
Pot roast, 91. 
Protein : 

alcohol-soluble, 71. 
classification of, 70. 
conjugated, 71. 
experiments with, 69, 70. 
general discussion, 68. 



Protein Cont. 

identification test for, 69. 
in meat, 61. 
in wheat, 133. 
other forms of, 71. 
phospho-protein, 71. 
requirement by body, 191. 
Puddings : 
recipes for 
bread, 164. 
corn starch, 25. 
cottage, 164. 
custard : 
baked, 74. 
caramel, 166. 
soft, 179. 

escalloped apple, 164. 
graham, 165. 
Indian, 165. 
prune whip, 166. 
rice, 164. 
sponge, 166. 
suet, 165. 

tapioca cream, 166. 
See gelatine desserts. 
Pudding sauces : 
See sauces. 

Radiation, experiments illustrating, 

12. 
Rarebit, . 

American, 113. 
Welsh, No. 1, 113. 
Welsh, No. 2, 113. 
Relation of food to the body, 1. 
Rice: 

general discussion, 26. 
recipes for 
baked, 28. 
muffins, 129. 
pudding, 164. 
to wash, 28. 
Roasting : 

general method, 91. 
time table for meats, 92. 
recipes for 
beef, 92. 
chicken, 102. 
mutton, 93. 



INDEX 



217 



Roasting, recipes for Cont. 

veal, 92. 
Rolls, Parkerhouse, 140. 

Salads : 

food value, 171. 
recipes for 

cabbage, 174. 

chicken, 174. 

egg, 174. 

fish, 175. 

lettuce, 174. 

potato, 174. 
suggestions for, 172. 
to marinate, 172. 
to mix, 172. 
Salad dressings : 
recipes for 

cooked, 173. 

French, 174. 

mayonnaise, 173. 

whipped cream, 174. 
Sand tarts, 160. 
Sandwiches : 
recipes for 

cheese, 176. 

cheese filling, 176. 

egg, 176. 

ham, 176. 

lettuce, 175. 
Saponification, 145. 
Sauces, meat and vegetable : 
methods of making, 24. 
proportion of flour for, 24. 
recipes for 

bechamel, 38. 

brown, 24. 

brown mushroom, 96. 

drawn butter, 104. 

lemon butter, 96. 

salmon, 106. 

thick white (for croquettes), 24. 

tomato, 42. 

white, 24. 

white mushroom, 98. 
Sauces, pudding : 
recipes for 

caramel syrup, 131. 

creamy, 167. 



Sauces, recipes for Cont. 
foamy, 167. 
lemon, 127. 
vanilla, 167. 
yellow, 167. 
Scones, 127. 

Sherbets, suggestions for, 181. 
Silicon, 2. 

Snow pudding, 179. 
Soap making, 145. 
Sodium, 2. 

Sodium bicarbonate, 124. 
Soups : 

cream soups, 59. 
recipes for 

baked bean, 61. 
cauliflower, 66. 
celery, 60. 
clear tomato, 60. 
corn, 66. 
potato, 60. 
spinach, 61. 
tomato, 59. 
to bind or thicken, 59. 
made with stock, 59, 61, 63. 
recipes for 
bouillon, 64. 
stock, 64. 

stock, brown, 63, 64. 
stock, white, 66. 
tomato, 64. 
vegetable, 64. 
to clear soup, 64. 
Sour cream cookies, 159. 
Sour milk griddle cakes, 130. 
Spanish cream, 180. 
Spice cake, 162. 
Sponge cake (without water), 157. 

Berwick (with water), 158. 
Sponge drops, 159. 
Sponge pudding, 160. 
Stages in sugar boiling, 15. 
Starch : 

experiments with, 21. 
identification test for, 21. 
methods of thickening with, 23- 

24. 

Sterilization, 52. 
Sterilized milk, 186. 



218 



INDEX 



Stewing : 

general method, 89. 

recipes for 
beef stew, 89. 
Irish stew, 90. 
veal stew, 90. 
Stoves and ranges, 13. 
Strawberry ice cream, 183. 
Succotash, 40. 
Suet pudding, 165. 
Sugar : 

cane, 43. 

experiments with, 43. 

general discussion, 43. 

glucose, 44. . 

lactose, 43. 

maple, 43. 

stages in boiling, 15. 

test for, 44. 
Sulphur, 2, 4. 
Symbols of elements in body, 5. 

Table service, 191. 
Table setting, 192. 
Tannin, tests for, 118. 
Tapioca cream, 166. 
Tarts : 

cranberry, 155. 
general rule, 155. 
Tea: 

cost of, 119. 
experiments with, 118. 
general discussion, 120. 
recipe for 

Russian, 121. 
stimulant, 117. 
Toast : 

boxes, 107. ' 

directions for making, 189. 
recipes for 
cream, 190. 
milk, 190. 
sticks, 67. 
water, 189. 
Tomatoes : 

general discussion, 38. 
recipes for 
creamed, 38. 
sauce, 42. 



Tomatoes, recipes for Cont. 
stewed, 38. 
stuffed, 39. 
to can, 54. 
to can for soup, 54. 
to prepare, 38. 
Tomato soups: 
clear, 60. 
cream, 50. 
stock, 64. 
Turbot, 105. 
Turnips : 

general discussion, 36. 
recipes for 
creamed, 37. 
cups with pea filling, 37. 
to boil and mash, 37. 
to prepare, 37. 

Vanilla sauce, 167. 
Veal: 

diagram and food uses of, 82. 
general discussion, 83. 
recipes for " 

breaded, baked, 96. 
chops, 95. 
croquettes, 148. 
loaf, 96. 
roast, 92. 
souffle, 98. 
stew, 90. 
side of, 83. 
Vegetables : 

amount nutrition for ten cents, 31. 
general composition of, 31. 
general methods of cooking, 32. 
table of composition, 30. 
to prepare, 32. 
Vegetable soup, 65. 

Waffles, 131. 
Warmed-over meats, 97. 
Washington pie, 158. 
Water : 

composition of, 115. 

distilled, 115. 

hard and soft, 117. 

purification of, 116. 

sources of, 116. 



INDEX 



219 



Water toast, 189. 
Wheat : 

composition of, 132. 

experiments with, 134. 

proteins in, 133. 

section of grain of, 132. 
White bread, 140. 
White cake, 161. 
White mushroom sauce, 98. 
White soup stock, 66. 



Yeast : 

a fungus, 50. 

drawing of, 135. 

experiments with, 137. 

growth of, 135. 

raw potato, recipe for, 139. 
Yellow sauce, 167. 



T 



HE following pages contain advertisements of 
a few of the Macmillan books on kindred subjects 



Practical Physics for Secondary Schools 

By N. HENRY BLACK of the Roxbury Latin School 
Boston, and Professor HARVEY N. DAVIS of Harvard 
University. 

Cloth, I2mo, illustrated, 488 pages. T.ist price, 



" In preparing this book," say the authors in the Preface, " we have tried to 
select only those topics which are of vital interest to young people, whether or 
not they intend to continue the study of physics in a college course. 

" In particular, we believe that the chief value of the informational side of 
such a course lies in its applications to the machinery of daily life. Everybody 
needs to know something about the working of electrical machinery, optical 
instruments, ships, automobiles, and all those labor-saving devices, such as 
vacuum cleaners, fireless cookers, pressure cookers, and electric irpns, which 
are found in many American homes. We have, therefore, drawn as much of 
our illustrative material as possible from the common devices in modern life. 
We see no reason why this should detract in the least from the educational 
value of the study of physics, for one can learn to think straight just as well by 
thinking about an electrical generator, as by thinking about a Geissler tube. . . . 

" To understand any machine clearly, the student must have clearly in mind 
the fundamental principles involved. Therefore, although we have tried to 
begin each new topic, however short, with some concrete illustration familiar 
to young people, we have proceeded, as rapidly as seemed wise, to a deduction 
of the general principle. Then, to show how to make use of this principle, we 
nave discussed other practical applications. We have tried to emphasize still 
further the value of principles, that is, generalizations, in science, by summariz- 
ing at the end of each chapter the principles discussed in that chapter. In 
these summaries we have aimed to make the phrasing brief and vivid so that 
it may be easily remembered and easily used." 

The new and noteworthy features of the book are the admirable 
selection of familiar material used to develop and apply the principles 
of physical science, the exceptionally clear and forceful exposition, 
showing the hand of the master teacher, the practical, interesting, 
thought-provoking problems, and the superior illustrations. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 Fifth Avenue 

Chicago New York City Dallas 

Boston Atlanta San Francisco 



Human Behavior: 

A First Book in Psychology for Teachers 

BY STEPHEN S. COLVIN 

Professor of Educational Psychology in Brown University, and 

WILLIAM CHANDLER BAGLEY 

Director of the School of Education in the University of Illinois 

Cloth, ismo, 336 pages, $1.00 

" I shall be surprised if this book does not attract attention at 
once," writes Mr. H. B. Wilson, Superintendent of Schools, 
Decatur, 111. " I like the topics it takes up, the organization of 
these topics, and the point of view it maintains. The sum- 
maries and the exercises and questions at the conclusions of the 
various chapters adapt it well for class instruction. I believe 
we have in this book a text which will enable a good many high 
schools to offer a course for intending teachers such as they 
have not been able to organize for want of a suitable text." 

The purpose of the authors in writing the book, as stated in 
the preface, has undoubtedly been attained and their plan suc- 
cessfully carried out. " It is hoped that the book may prove 
useful to the large numbers of young men and young women 
who each year enter the service of the public schools. It has, 
indeed, been written with a distinct recognition of the immatu- 
rity and inexperience which these beginning teachers represent. 
Every effort has been made (i) to select the topics that are 
most closely related to the work of teaching ; (2) to treat these 
topics concretely, enforcing each principle with a wealth of 
illustration drawn partly from class-room practice and partly 
from the affairs of everyday life ; and (3) to simplify the ter- 
minology, without, at the same time, sacrificing accuracy of state- 
ment." 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



Shelter and Clothing: 

A TEXTBOOK OF THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS 

By HELEN KINNE, Professor of Household Arts Educa- 
tion, and ANNA M. COOLEY, Assistant Professor of House- 
hold Arts Education, Teachers College, Columbia University. 
Cloth, I2mo, illustrated, 377 pages. $1.10 

This book and the volume, Foods and Household Management, that follows 
it, make up a full course in domestic matters not confined to details of cooking 
and sewing. The books treat fully, but with careful balance, every phase of 
home-making. The authors hold that Harmony will be the keynote of the 
home in proportion as the makers of the home regard the plan, the sanitation, 
the decoration of the house itself, and as they exercise economy and wisdom in 
the provision of food and clothing. 

" Home Economics stands for the utilization of the resources of modern 
science to improve home life," and to this end homemakers should be con- 
versant with modern scientific thought on matters domestic. The best schemes 
of heating and lighting, modern arrangements for the disposal of waste, the 
sanitary efficiency of tinted walls, of bare floors, of furniture built on simple 
lines, these are some ways in which modern science instructs the intelligent 
homemaker. In the selection of textiles for clothing and domestic use, a 
housekeeper to be efficient must be able to distinguish between fabrics of dif- 
ferent fibers and to choose durable weaves, she must be able to detect adultera- 
tion and the deceptive " finishing " processes. In buying ready-made garments 
she must know how to protect herself and her family from the danger of gar- 
ments infected by diseased operators in sweatshops. The up-to-date book on 
home economy treats such topics and relates them to common experience. 

The plan of the book is flexible. Parts may be omitted or shifted to meet 
the necessity or the convenience of different schools. The chapter headings 
in some measure disclose the breadth, the variety, and the practicability of the 
book : 

The Home. Its plan and construction ; heating, ventilating, lighting, 
water supply, and the disposal of waste ; decoration ; furnishing. Textiles. 
Materials and how they are made. Garment-making. Patterns ; cutting and 
making garments; embroidery. Dress. History of costume; hygiene of 
clothing ; economics of dress ; care and repair of clothing ; millinery. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 Fifth Avenue 

Chicago New York City Dallas 

Boston Atlanta San Fraucisco 



Chemistry and its Relations to Daily Life 

BY LOUIS KAHLENBERG AND EDWIN B. HART 

Professors of Chemistry in the University of Wisconsin 

Cloth, I2mo, illustrated, 393 pages. List price, 



If the contributions of chemical science to modern civilization 
were suddenly swept away, what a blank there would be ! If, on 
the other hand, every person were acquainted with the elements of 
chemistry and its bearing upon our daily life, what an uplift human 
efficiency would receive ! It is to further this latter end that this 
book has been prepared. Designed particularly for use by students 
of agriculture and home economics in secondary schools, its use will 
do much to increase the efficiency of the farm and the home. In 
the language of modern educational philosophy, it "functions in the 
life of the pupil." 

Useful facts rather than mere theory have been emphasized, 
although the theory has not been neglected. The practical char- 
acter of the work is indicated by the following selected chapter 
headings : 

IL The Composition and Uses of Water. 

IV* The Air, Nitrogen, Nitric Acid, and Ammonia, 

IX. Carbon and Its Compounds. 

XII. Paints, Oils, and Varnishes. 

XIIL Leather, Silk, Wool, Cotton, and Rubber* 

XV. Commercial Fertilizers, 

XVI. Farm Manure. 

XX. Milk and Its Products. 

XXL Poisons for Farm and Orchard Pests. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 FIFTH AVENUE 

BOSTON NEW YORK CITY DALLAS 

CHICAGO ATLANTA SAN FRANCISCO 



THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE 
STAMPED BELOW 



AN INITIAL FINE OF 25 CENTS 

WILL BE ASSESSED FOR FAILURE TO RETURN 
THIS BOOK ON THE DATE DUE. THE PENALTY 
WILL INCREASE TO SO CENTS ON THE FOURTH 
DAY AND TO $t.OO ON THE SEVENTH DAY 
OVERDUE. 



MAY 31 

2 Dec 2 






FEB 9 1937 



rtOM 



1 1931 



OCT 9 1940M 

AUG 8 1944 



28lf\ 



5tf>? 



-&* 



P&P 



LD 21-50m-l,'33 



o 



304743 

L 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 




Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



A TEXTBOOK OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK  BOSTON  CHICAGO  DALLAS 
ATLANTA  SAN FRANaSCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., Limited 

LONDON  BOMBAY  CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd. 

TORONTO 



A TEXTBOOK OF 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



FOR HIGH SCHOOLS 



BY 

MATILDA G. Q^MPBELL 

INSTRUCTOR IN HOME ECONOMICS, JBSUP W. SCOTT HIGH SCHOOL, TOLEDO 

OHIO, LECTURER ON HOME ECONOMICS, UNIVERSITY OF 

CALIFORNIA, SUMMER SCHOOL, 1911 



DEPASTIiIEi^T Ox EDUCATION 
EELAHD STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

1913 

AU righta resented 



624649 

GOPTBIOHT, 1918, 

By the MACMILLAN COMPANY. 



Set up and electrotyped. Published November, 19x3. 



Narioaoli IPress 

J. S. Gushing Go.  Berwick & Smith Go. 

Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



PREFACE 

This textbook has been compiled in response to an ever 
increasing demand from instructors of Domestic Science for a 
book which can be placed in the hands of the student to use 
as a laboratory manual in the school, and as a practical cook- 
book in the home. 

To this end facts already being taught in well-established 
schools of Domestic Science have here been arranged in a 
concise manner, but much has been omitted that the instruc- 
tor will necessarily supply according to the needs of her school 
and locality. Sanitation, chemistry of cleaning, shelter, and 
many other subjects included under the term Domestic Sci- 
ence have not been considered here, as a proper treatment of 
them would produce sufficient material for another textbook. 

The contents of this book are confined largely to the sub- 
jects of food and nutrition and the application of heat to 
foods. Although the study of the natural sciences should be 
correlated with a course in Domestic Science, the text has not 
presupposed much knowledge of chemistry, physics, etc., on 
the part of the student. 

In view of the varying conditions that prevail in domestic 
science courses it has not been thought best to introduce any 
discussion of methods of instruction, but the arrangement and 
presentation of lessons has been left to the discretion of the 
instructor. 

It is earnestly hoped that the text will prove of genuine 
assistance to classes which are now overburdened with note- 
taking in gathering the fundamental principles of the science 
of food and nutrition. 

The author wishes to acknowledge a debt of gratitude to 
various standard authorities, freely quoted in the text. 

V 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

OHAFTSK PAOS 

I. The Relation of Food to the Body ... 1 

II. Air and Combustion 7 

III. Classification of Foods  Carbohydrates . 18 

rV. Vegetables 30 

V. Sugar and Fruits 43 

VI. Food Preservation 50 

VII. Soups 59 

Vni. Protein Eggs 68 

IX. Protein  Composition and Preparation of Meat 77 

X. Protein  Poultry and Fish XOO 

XI. Protein  Milk and Milk Products 108 

XII. Water and Beverages 115 

XIII. Leavening  Batters and Doughs . . 123 

XIV. Leavening  Breads 132 

XV. Fats  Frying and Pastry 143 

XVI. Cakes and Puddings 156 

XVII. Mineral Foods  Salads 168 

XVIIL Gelatine and Frozen Desserts .... 177 

XIX. Invalid Cookery 184 

XX. Table Service 191 

XXI. Diet and Nutrition 196 



vii 



TEXTBOOK OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

CHAPTER I 

THE RELATION OF FOOD TO THE BODY 

Foods are substances which, when taken into the body, 
provide it with heat and other forms of energy, and furnish 
it with material for growth and repair. In the case of a 
grown person, foods supply the fuel necessary for various 
bodily activities  for walking, for mounting stairs, for lift- 
ing weights ; and they keep the bodily machinery in repair. 
In the case of a growing person, they also supply materials 
for building up the bodily machinery. 

In order to understand how food can serve the body in 
the ways mentioned, it is necessary to know something about 
the composition of the body and also about the composition 
of food. Both, however, are exceedingly complex, and even 
those who are devoting their lives to the study of foods in 
their relation to the body have still much to discover upon 
the subject. The science of nutrition is a growing science, 
about which we hope in time to know much more than we 
do at present. 

As we study the substances found in nature we find that 
they are composed of elements which combine to form 
many compounds. An element may be defined as a sub- 
stance which has never been divided into anything simpler 
than itself. A compound is a substance which is composed 
of two or more elements. In all nature chemists have as 

B 1 



2 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

yet discovered only about eighty elements and of these all 
compounds are made up. 

In the body there are known to be fifteen elements, which 
are combined to form over one hundred compounds. 

ELEMENTS PRESENT IN THE HUMAN BODY (H. C. SHERMAN) 

1. Oxygen 6. Phosphorus 11. Magnesium 

2. Carbon 7. Potassium 12. Iron 

3. Hydrogen 8. Sulphur 13. Iodine 

4. Nitrogen 9. Sodium 14. Fluorine 

5. Calcium 10. Chlorine 15. Silicon 

The body is constantly undergoing changes by which 
complex compounds are broken down, and new, simpler 
compounds are formed and are given off through the lungs 
and skin, from the kidneys, and otherwise. The result of 
this is that new material, containing the same elements as 
the compounds constantly excreted, must be supplied to the 
body in the form of food. A well-known chemist has re- 
ferred to the material which the body can use for repair and 
building of tissues as its " building stones." These " build- 
ing stones " must not only contain the elements of which 
the body is composed, but they must also be in a form in 
which the body can utilize them. 

In order to prepare the " building stones " to repair the 
body and to furnish it with fuel, many of them must first 
be changed by heat in the process of cooking, and they are 
all acted upon by the digestive juices after being taken into 
the body. 

All changes of matter are of two kinds, physical and chemi- 
cal. A physical change is one that does not cause a change 
in the composition of a substance, as the dissolving of sugar 



THE RELATION OF FOOD TO THE BODY 3 

in water, for the water being evaporated, the sugar will re- 
tain its physical properties. 

Note.  Student make a list of physical changes. 

A chemical change is one that causes a change in the com- 
position of a substance, as, for example, the burning of sugar, 
when it loses all its physical properties. 

Note.  Student make a list of chemical changes. 

The science of chemistry has to do with chemical changes. 
The science of physics has to do with physical changes. 

In the preparation of food, and in its digestion, assimi- 
lation, and excretion from the body, a series of very com- 
plex chemical and physical changes occurs. 

Among the most important and most abundant of the 
elements found in the body are oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, 
nitrogen, phosphorus, and sulphur. 

Oxygen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless gas and is the 
great supporter of life and combustion. It forms one-fifth 
of the volume of air and eight-ninths of the weight of water. 
It is a very active element, uniting with all other elements 
but one. It is more abundantly distributed in nature than 
any other element and forms about 66 per cent of the 
human body. 

Note.  Teacher prepare oxygen and perform some simple ex- 
periments to illustrate its properties, using any standard Chemistry 
as a guide. 

Carbon is an odorless and tasteless solid. It is found in 
nature in a nearly pure state in several different forms. The 
diamond, hard coal, and graphite, while having vastly dif- 
ferent physical properties, are almost pure carbon. All 
living organisms, both animal and vegetable, contain carbon, 
and over one hundred thousand carbon compounds have 



4 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

been artificially prepared in the laboratory. Under certain 
circumstances carbon unites chemically with oxygen, form- 
ing carbon monoxide (CO) or carbon dioxide (CO2). Heat 
is given off during this change. Carbon and its compounds 
form the larger part of fuels and of fuel- or heat-giving foods. 
Hydrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless gas and is the 
lightest substance known. It burns easily, or unites chemi- 
cally with oxygen, forming water (H2O), heat being given 
off during this change. Hydrogen burns in the body, but 
the heat is not intense. Hydrogen, as well as carbon, is 
found in fuels and in fuel foods ; in general, the higher the 
percentage of hydrogen in a food, the greater the amount 
of heat it yields when it burns. 

Note.  Teacher prepare hydrogen and perform some simple 
experiments to illustrate its properties, using a standard Chemistry 
as a guide. 

Nitrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless gas. It forms 
about four-fifths of the atmosphere. It is an inert gas and 
forms compounds which easily decompose, a process which, 
as we shall see later, is due to the action of tiny living organ- 
isms called bacteria. Nitrogen is present in the protoplasm, 
the jelly like content of cells of plants and animals, and 
is an essential constituent of all living organisms. The 
human body contains about 2.4 per cent of nitrogen, which 
is obtained from certain foods that furnish nitrogen in a form 
that the body can digest and assimilate. Prominent among 
these foods are meat, eggs, fish, milk, etc. ; without a cer- 
tain amount of such foods the body would undergo nitrogen 
starvation. 

Sulphur is a yellow, combustible solid. It is always 
present in cell protoplasm in combination with the nitrogen 
compounds, and is essential for the body. Plants absorb 



THE RELATION OP POOD TO THE BODY 6 

sulphur compounds, or sulphates from the soil, and ammals 
obtam the sulphates which they require from vegetable 
foods and from meat, milk, eggs, etc. When foods that 
contain sulphur decompose under the action of bacteria, 
the sulphur unites with some of the hydrogen present, form- 
ing hydrogen sulphide (H2S), the disagreeable odor of which 
is known in spoiled eggs. 

Phosphorus is a highly combustible soUd and in the pure 
state it is exceedingly poisonous. In combination in the form 
of phosphates, it is essential to every living cell in the body 
and must be suppUed to the body by such foods as contain 
the phosphates in a form in which the body can assimilate 
them. Among these foods are meat, milk, egg yolk, wheat, 
grams, and the legumes. 

Organic and Inorganic Matter.  All matter may be 
classified as organic or inorganic. All organic substances 
contain carbon. All substances that are formed during the 
processes of life are organic and, as before stated, great num- 
bers of carbon compounds have been artificially prepared. 

Note.  Student make a list of eight organic substances. 
Note.  Student make a list of eight inorganic substances. 

Chemical Symbols.  In writing the names of elements it 
is often inconvenient to write the full name, hence the ele- 
ments are designated by their initial letters, or by those of 
their Latin names. These abbreviations are called symbols 
and represent one atom of the element and its combining 
weight. 

SYMBOLS OF THE ELEMENTS FOUND IN THE HUMAN BODY 

1. Oxygen . . . . O 5. Calcium Ca 

2. Carbon . . . . C 6. Phosphorus . . . . P 

3. Hydrogen. . . . H 7. Potassium . . . . K 

4. Nitrogen . . . . N 8. Sulphur S 



6 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

9. Sodium . . . . Na 13. Iodine I 

10. Chlorine ... CI 14. Fluorine F 

11. Magnesium . . Mg 15. Silicon Si 

12. Iron Fe 

Chemical Formulas and Equations.  The combination of 
symbols which represents the elements found in a molecule 
of a compound is called a chemical formula. H2O is the 
formula for a molecule of water, water being composed of 
two parts by volume of hydrogen and one part of oxygen. 
CO2 is the formula for carbon dioxide, which is composed of 
one part by volume of carbon and two parts of oxygen. 

When a substance undergoes a chemical change, or when 
two or more elements or compounds unite chemically, these 
changes may be represented by means of symbols or formulas 
in the form of an equation : 

H2 + O = H2O 

0+02=002 

C + O = 00 (Oarbon Monoxide) 



CHAPTER II 

AIR AND COMBUSTION 

Air.  Air is necessary for the support of life and combus- 
tion. It is a mixture, not a compound; that is, the sub- 
stances of which it is composed are not chemically combined. 

It has definite weight. At the sea level the atmosphere 
exerts a pressure of fifteen poimds on every square inch of 
surface, but as the pressure is equal in every direction, we 
are not crushed by this weight. 

Air is composed of about one-fifth oxygen and four-fifths 
nitrogen. There are present also varying amounts of car- 
bon dioxide (CO2), watery vapor, anunonia, dust, bacteria, 
etc. The nitrogen is not in a form in which it can be util- 
ized by either plants or animals. Upon the roots of certain 
plants, as clover, peas, beans, etc., are found nodules contain- 
ing bacteria which have the power of taking nitrogen from 
the air and changing it to such compounds of nitrogen as 
can be utilized by the plant. From these compounds the 
plant builds complex nitrogenous compounds which it stores 
in its cells as protein. 

The oxygen in the air supports combustion. 

Experiment 1.  Light a splint and insert it in a dry, empty 
test tube. Is the flame extinguished ? Why ? 

Experiment 2.  Put a lamp chimney over a lighted candle. 
Admit air from the bottom. Does the candle bum freely ? 

Hold a strip of tissue paper near the bottom of the chimney, 
and also above the chimney. Explain the cause of movement of 
the paper. Cover the chimney on top and also exclude air from the 
bottom. Does the candle continue to bum? Give reason. 

7 



8 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Experiment 3.  (To be performed by the instructor.) Float 
a cork with a small piece of phosphorus on it in a pan of water. 
Ignite the phosphorus and cover it quickly with a bell jar. (A 
fruit jar may be used.) 

With what does the phosphorus unite in burning to form the 
dense white fume ? 

What becomes of this fume as it disappears ? 

What part of the jar is filled with water ? 

What component of the air has been burned out ? What com- 
ponent of the air remains in the jar, preventing the water from filling 
the entire jar? 

What proportion of the air is oxygen ? nitrogen ? 

Experiment 4.  To examine air for dust, bacteria, etc. 

Put a drop of glycerine on a clean glass microscope slide. Ex- 
pose to the dust of the room until the next lesson. Cover the 
glycerine with a cover glass and examine under a microscope, first 
with a low power and then with a high power. Make a drawing 
of what you see. 

Oxidation and Combustion.  Oxidation, or combustion, is 
the union of oxygen with any other substance. The process 
may be slow or rapid, but in either case heat is given off, 
even though not rapidly enough to be perceptible. Example : 
the rusting of iron is really the burning of iron, but the 
process is so slow that we do not detect the heat given ofiF. 

Fuels are composed largely of carbon and hydrogen which, 
in burning, unite with oxygen of the air giving off heat. 

Products of Combustion, 

Experiment 5.  Hold a saucer in a candle flame. Note the 
black deposit that forms on it. What element is present in the 
candle? What is smoke? Do we get the maximum heat from 
fuel when smoke is given off during combustion ? 

Identification Test for Carbon Dioxide.  Put some filtered lime- 
water in a glass beaker or tumbler. Breathe through a glass tube 



ft 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 9 

) j]g into the limewater, which will become cloudy from the carbon 

if ^iz dioxide present in the breath exhaled from the lungs. This test is 

ja; , used to identify carbon dioxide, which always causes limewater to 

become cloudy. An excess of COj causes the cloudiness to disappear. 

m i Experiment 6.  Hold a bell jar over a burning candle for a 

short time, collecting any gases which may be given oflf during com- 
bustion. Invert the bell jar, pour into it some filtered limewater, 
cover the jar, and shake well. Does the limewater become cloudy ? 

What gas was given oflf during the burning of the candle ? 

Experiment 7.  Cover a burning candle with a dry bell jar. 
Note the formation of water on the sides of the jar. Is the water a 
product of combustion ? Write the equation for the forming of H2O. 

Summary of products of combustion : 

0+0 = CO, carbon monoxide, a poisonous gas given oflf in com- 
bustion when the supply of oxygen is deficient. 
The blue flame on the surface of a coal fire is 
burning CO. All stoves should have perfect 
chimney connections to carry oflf this poisonous 
is gas. 

,^ C + O2 = CO2, carbon dioxide. 

H2 + O = H2O, water. 

Unconsumed carbon = smoke. 

Mineral matter = ash. 

Flame.  When two substances unite chemically, and 
both are gases or vapors at the temperature of combustion, 
the act of union is accompanied by a flame. When one of 
the substances remains solid at the temperature of combus- 
tion, heat and light are given off, but there is no flame. 
Many substances which are solids or liquids at ordinary 
temperatures vaporize slowly when at the temperature of 
burning and hence burn with a flame. The light given by 
the flame is caused by the glowing, or incandescence, of the 
solid carbon particles. At a higher temperature the carbon 






I 



10 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

is quickly and completely burned and gives no light, but 
bums with a blue flame. 

When gas is used as a fuel it is mixed with air before 
burning, in order that it may be diluted, when there will be 
a more perfect combustion. A gas used as fuel should bum 
with a blue flame ; a yellow or a smoky flame indicates that 
the carbon is not being completely consumed and there is an 
attendant loss of heat. 

Note.  Students examine carefully a Bunsen or other gas burner, 
increasing and decreasing the supply of oxygen by opening and 
closing the mixer. Note the varying color of the flame and the 
seeming increase or loss of heat. 

Kindling Point.  Every combustible solid must be raised 
to a certain temperature, or kindling point, before it will 
unite rapidly enough with oxygen to produce light. This 
temperature varies with different substances, but is always 
the same for the same substance. The kindling point of 
phosphorus is very low. Ordinary parlor matches are tipped 
with phosphorus, potassium chlorate, and glue. The heat 
produced by the friction of striking the match is sufficient 
to raise the phosphorus to its burning point. The heat 
produced by the burning of the phosphorus raises the wood 
of the match to its kindling point, and the match ignites. 

Note.  Student explain the steps in fire building by which 
hard coal may be raised to its kindling point. 

Flash Point.  The temperature to which a fat or oil must 
be raised before an inflammable vapor is given off is called 
the flash point. This is a valuable indication of the safety 
of an oil. 

Fuels.  A fuel is a combustible substance usually com- 
posed of carbon and hydrogen. 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 11 

Note.  Student prepare a list of fuels  

Solids Liquids Gasu 



Note.  Students inspect specimens of hard and soft woods; 
charcoal ; peat ; bituminous, anthracite, and cannel coal ; various 
fuel oils ; alcohols. 

Students write paper on the "Story of Coal." 

Students procure the current market price of the various fuels 
listed above. From the cost of a basket of coal or ''bundle of 
wood/' estimate the price paid for a ton of coal and a cord of wood 
when purchased in small quantities. 

Heat.  Heat is molecular motion. 
Sources of heat : 

1. Mechanical energy. 

Produced by friction or by collision. 

2. Chemical energy. 

Produced by combustion or by chemical union of dif- 
ferent compounds or elements. 

3. Electrical energy. 

As produced by an electric toaster, etc., or by the 
sun's rays. 
Heat is transferred from one body to another or to dif- 
ferent parts of the same body by conduction, convection, 
and radiation. 

Conduction : 

Experiment 8.  Place rods of wood, metal, and glass on an 
asbestos mat over a gas burner with the ends of the rods extending 
beyond the mat. The metal rod will soon become hot, while the 
other two will not be appreciably heated. Metals are good con- 



12 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

ductors of heat and cold, glass and wood are poor conductors. Air 
is a very poor conductor. 

The conduction of heat consists of the transfer of motion from 
molecule to molecule. 

Note.  Students make a list of good conductors ; of poor con- 
ductors. 

Why are wooden handles placed upon teakettles, flat-irons, 
etc. ? Why is the handle of a kettle sometimes made in the form 
of a spiral ? Why is the outer portion of an ice cream freezer made 
of wood ? Why is the inner can made of metal ? What is the prin- 
ciple upon which a fireless cooker is constructed? a thermos 
bottle ? How should the oven of a stove be constructed ? 

Convection: 

Experiment 9.  Partly fill a glass beaker with water, add one 
half teaspoon of sawdust, and heat slowly. A movement will be 
seen in the sawdust, indicating that the heat sets up currents in 
the water which have an upward direction inunediately over the 
flame. The water nearest the flame becomes heated and expands; 
this makes it lighter and it rises, while the cold water of the top 
takes its place, thus causing the currents noted. This method of 
heat transference, which takes place in liquids and in gases, is 
called convection. There are convection currents in the atmosphere, 
caused by the unequal heating of the earth by the sun. The air 
over a heated portion of the earth rises, and the cool air rushes in 
to take its place. 

Note.  What is the principle of heating a building with a hot- 
water system ? How should a room be ventilated ? 

Radiation : 

Experiment 10.  When you hold your hand in front of a fire, 
heat travels directly from the fire to the hand. This method of 
heat transference, in which heat travels in straight lines, or radiates 
through the atmosphere, is known as radiation. 

Note.  How is heat transferred in making toast ? in broiling ? 
Is there loss of heat from radiation in the ordinary cook stove ? 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 13 

Note.  Students examine the stoves and ranges in use in the 
domestic science laboratory. Make drawings of them, showing the 
principle of heat conveyance and the system of dampers used for 
admitting oxygen to the fire and for controlling the heat currents. 
Bring a detailed drawing of the stove used at home. Test various 
parts of the school oven with paper or flour, showing in what part 
of the oven the heat is the most intense. Examine also and make 
drawings of 

1. Gas burners and their mixers. 

2. Fireless cookers. 

3. Electric stoves. 

4. Kerosene stoves. 

5. Gasoline stoves. 

Discuss the evolution of the cook stove. Catalogues showing 
modem stoves, including gas stoves, electric stoves, etc., should be 
shown to students or be collected by them. 

The construction of cook stoves is at present in a transition 
stage and drawings are not given in this text, as it is hoped 
soon that the construction of stoves will be materially 
changed. The loss of heat and the attendant waste of fuel 
in heating an ordinary oven is very great. It is said that 
only about seven per cent of the heat is utilized. Modem 
stoves are now being constructed with non-conducting sub- 
stances around the air chambers which surround the ovens 
so that the waste of heat is much reduced. An oven ther- 
mometer should be placed on every oven to substitute a scien- 
tific means of regulation for the old-fashioned dependence on 
" luck " when baking. With gas and electric stoves a ther- 
mostat should shut off heat when a certain temperature has 
been attained, the baking being then completed by the re- 
tained heat of the oven. 

Cooking is the art of preparing food for the nourishment 
of the human body by the aid of heat. We cook food to 
make it more palatable, more digestible, and to destroy any 
harmful bacteria which it may contain. 



14 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The processes of cooking may be classed as : 

1. Boiling. 

a. Cooking directly in water. 
6. Steaming. 

(1) Moist, cooking in a steamer. 

(2) Dry, cooking in double boiler. 

2. Roasting. 

a. Roasting in front of open fire. 
6. Roasting in hot oven. 

3. Broiling. 

a. Broiling over red-hot coals or gas flame. 
6. Pan-broiling in very hot pan (without fat). 

4. Frying. 

a. Deep frying. 

b. Saut^ing, or frying in small amount of fat. 

Boiling : 

Experiment 11.  Put cold water ^n glass beaker orstewpan. 
Heat. With thermometer note temperature at which small bub- 
bles form on the bottom and sides of the beaker and rise to the 
surface. What are these bubbles ? Where do they break ? Note 
temperature at which larger bubbles rise ; and also note tempera- 
tuire when the surface of the water is completely agitated. What 
are these large bubbles ? Where do they break ? What is the tem- 
perature of simmering water ? of boiUng water ? How is the heat 
of the fire conveyed to the water? How is the heat conveyed 
through the water? Note the deposit left on the pan after the 
water has boiled away; what is this deposit? Give two reasons 
why boiled water tastes flat. Why should water be freshly boiled 
for tea and coffee? How can you improve the taste of water 
which has been boiled ? 

Experiment 12.  Let water boil gently. Note temperature. 
Let it boil rapidly. Note temperature. Does water get hotter 
than its boiling point in an ordinary kettle ? What becomes of the 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 15 

excess heat? What important point in the economy of fuel in 
cooking does this emphasize ? 

Experiment 13.  A. Put equal amounts of water in two 
beakers of the same size. Let the water in one beaker boil gently 
for about five minutes ; in the other let it boil rapidly. Compare 
the rate of evaporation of the water in the two beakers. 

B, Put equal amounts of water in two vessels of equal capacity, 
having one vessel shallow and broad and the other deep and narrow. 
Boil the water in them for an equal length of time and compare 
the rate of evaporation in the two vessels. Does the shape of the 
pan used and the rapidity of boiling have any bearing on practical 
cookery ? 

Experiment 14.  Mix } cup of sugar and J cup of water; 
boil and note temperature, with confectioner's or laboratory ther- 
mometer ; compare boiling point of the mixture with that of boil- 
ing water. Continue the boihng, noting any change of temperature. 

Stages in Sugar Boiling : 

Soft Ball.  At 237 F. drop some of the sugar mixture 
into ice water. Form it into a ball between the thumb and 
finger, keeping imder the water. 

Hard Ball.  At 256 F. drop some of the mixture into 
ice water. Form it into a ball and compare with the soft 
ball. 

Soft Crack.  At 290 F. drop some of mixture into ice 
water. This cracks, but if put between the teeth, will 
stick. 

Hard Crack.  At 310 F. drop some of mixture into ice 
water. This cracks, but does not stick to the teeth. 

Continue boiling the syrup until it is a light brown color, 
or caramel. Pour into a tin pan and let cool. 

Under what condition does the boiling point of a liquid 
vary? Explain the value of a thermometer in candy 
making. 



16 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Boiling Point.  The boiling point of water at sea level is 
212 Fahrenheit or 100 centigrade. The boiling points of 
liquids vary both with their composition and with the atmos- 
pheric pressure. It is necessary for water to overcome the 
atmospheric pressure before it can be changed to steam. 
If the altitude increases, as in ascending a mountain, the 
atmospheric pressure is lessened, hence less heat is required 
to overcome it, and water boils at a lower temperature. 
The boiling point of water is decreased 1 F. for each increase 
of 479 feet in altitude. What is the temperature of boiling 
water on Mt. Blanc? 

TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS 

Ts.  Teaspoonful Qt.  Quart 

Tb. -^ Tablespoonful Lb.  Pound 

C.  Cupful Oz.  Ounce . 

Ssp.  Saltspoonful M.  Minute 

Pt.  Pmt H.  Hour 

Measurements.  All measurements in this book are 
level. Accurate measuring is necessary to insure uniform 
success in cookery and to eliminate the element of " luck." 

The standard measuring cup is one holding one-half 
pint. 

The standard tablespoon is one holding one-sixteenth of a 
cupful. 

One-half spoonful is measured by dividing the spoonful in 
two lengthwise. 

Flour is measured after being sifted once, and is placed 
in the cup with a spoon that it may not be packed. The 
flour should be rounded slightly in the cup and then be 
leveled off with a knife. 



AIR AND COMBUSTION 



17 



EQUIVALENT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 
To be verified by class or by individual experiment. 



4 ssp.= 


Its. 


2t8.= 


Itb. 


16tb.= 


Ic. 


2 gills = 


Ic. 


2c.= 


Ipt. 


2pt.= 


1 qt. 


4qt.= 


Igal. 


8qt.= 


1 peck 


4pk.= 


Ibu. 



8 or 9 egg8= 


lib. 


4 c. flour = 


lib. 


2 c. butter = 


lib. 


2 c. gran, sugar = 


lib. 


2J c. pow. sugar = 


lib. 


2J c. com meal = 


lib. 


2 c. raisins = 


lib. 


c. chopped meat = 


lib. 


1 tb. butter = 


\ oz. 


1 tb. sugar = 


J oz. 



CHAPTER III 

CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS  CARBOHYDRATES 

Classification of Foods and their General Uses in the Body : 

A. Organic Foods. 

1. Carbohydrates, 

Composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 
Examples.  1. Starch in cereals, etc. 

2. Sugar. 

3. Cellulose. 

Uses in body.  1. To supply heat and energy. 

2. To form fat. 

2. Fats. 

Composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 
Examples.  1. Fat of meats. 

2. Cream. 

3. Butter. 

4. Olive oil, etc. 

Uses in body.  1. To supply heat and energy. 

2. To form fat. 

3. Protein. 

Composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, 
sulphur, and sometimes phosphorus. 
Examples.  1. Albumen of egg. 

2. Casein of milk. 

3. Fibrin of meat. 

4. Gluten of wheat. 

5. Legumen of peas and beans, etc. 
Uses in body.  ^^ 1. To form tissue. 

2. To supply heat and energy. 

3. To form fat. 
18 



CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS 19 

B. Inorganic Foods. 

1. Water. 

Composed of hydrogen and oxygen, H2O. 
Uses in body.  1. Fonns two-thirds of body 

weight. 
2. Carrier of nutritive material 
and of waste products. 

2. Mineral Matter. 

Examples.  1. Sodium chloride. 

2. Phosphate of lime. 

3. Compounds of potassium, iron, 

magnesium, etc. 
Uses in body.  1. Aid in forming bone, teeth, 

etc. 

2. Assist in digestion. 

3. Necessary for tissues, blood, 

etc. 

C. Food Adjuncts and Accessories. 

1. Condiments and Spices. 

Examples.  1. Mustard. 

2. Pepper. 

3. Spices. 

Uses in body.  1. Stimulate the appetite. 

2. Increase flow of digestive 
fluids. 

2. Vegetable Adds. 

Examples.  1 . Citric acid in lemons and oranges. 

2. Malic acid in apples. 

3. Oxalic acid in rhubarb. 

4. Tartaric acid in grapes. 

3. Caffeine in tea and coffee. 
Theobromine in cocoa. 



20 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

CARBOHYDRATES 

A carbohydrate is a compound composed of carbon, hydro- 
gen, and oxygen. Hydrogen and oxygen are always present 
in the same proportion as they are in water  2: 1 (H2O). 

Chemical Formula: 

Cellulose (C6Hio06). 
Starch (CeHioOs)*. 

Glucose (CeHiaOe). 
Cane Sugar (C12H22O11). 

The carbohydrates include starches, sugars, and plant 
fibers, or cellulose. 
Carbohydrates are found 

1. In plants as starches, sugars, and cellulose. 

2. In milk as lactose or milk sugar. 

3. In the liver of animals as glycogen or animal starch. 

4. In body tissues as inosite or muscle sugar. 

Starch is formed by the chlorophyll of the plant cell, 
under the action of the sun's rays, from the carbon dioxide 
of the air and the water drawn from the soil. The process 
is a complex one, but the net result may be shown by the 
following equation : 

carbon dioxide + water = starch + oxygen 
6 CO2 +5 H2O = CeHioOfi + 6 O2 

or Glucose 

6 CO2 + 6 H2O = CeHiaOe + 6 O2 

Starch.  Starch is the most abundantly distributed in 
nature of any of the carbohydrates, for it is the chief form 
in which plants store their carbohydrate. It is found in 
fruits, seeds, roots, tubers, bulbs, stems, and leaves of various 
plants. In the United States the starch of commerce is 
obtained chiefly from com. 



CARBOHYDRATES 21 

Starch exists in the form of minute granules which are 
formed in the plant during its growth. The granules are 
composed of alternate layers of starch and cellulose, those 
of diflferent plants having characteristic shapes which can 
be recognized by examination with a microscope. Owing 
to its wide distribution, and to the fact that it may be easily 
stored because it does not decompose readily, starch is the 
cheapest form.of food and is often used to excess in the diet. 

Structure of the Starch Granule.  Examine under the 
microscope and make drawings of starch granules from com, 
potato, wheat. 

Identification Test for Starch.  Mix a little starch and cold 
water, boil, and cool. Add a drop of iodine. The blue color which 
results is characteristic of starch. With raw starch, iodine gives a 
purple color. 

Experiment 15.  Test various foods with iodine to ascertain 
whether they contain starch. Tabulate results. 

SoluMlity of Starch. 

Experiment 16.  Mix J tsp. starch in J c. cold water. Filter 
through filter paper. Test the filtrate and also the residue on the 
paper with iodine for starch. Did the starch pass through the 
filter? Is starch soluble in cold water? 

Experiment 17.  Mix J ts. starch in i c. cold water. Heat 
to boiling. Filter. Test as above. Did any of the starch pass 
through the filter? Is starch at least partly soluble in boiling 
water ? Examine some of the cooked starch under the microscope. 
Has any change taken place in the form of the granule ? 

Experiment 18.  Pour boiling water directly upon dry starch. 
Examine lumps. What caused them to form? 

Experiment 19.  Mix starch with cold water and stir into 
boiling water. Did lumps form in the mixture ? Give one method 
by which lumps may be avoided when starch is used to thicken a 
mixtiure. 



22 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Dextrin.  Before starch can be absorbed into the blood, 
to be utilized in giving heat and energy to the body or to be 
stored as fat, it must first be changed to a soluble carbohy- 
drate or form of sugar. Before the final change to sugar 
takes place an intermediate product is formed called dextrin. 
This has the same chemical formula as starch (C6Hio06)n, 
but possesses different properties. 

Dextrin may be formed (1) by the application of heat to 
dry starch, as in browning of flour ; (2) it is the first change 
that occurs when the enzymes, ptyalin of saliva, amylopsin 
of the pancreatic juice, or diastase of sprouting grains, con- 
vert starch into sugar. 

Identification Test for Dextrin.  Brown some flour without burn- 
ing it, add water ; shake well. Add a drop of iodine. The reddish 
brown color which results is a characteristic test for dextrin. 

Experiment 20.  Mix some browned flour or well-browned 
toast with water. Let stand awhile. Filter. Test filtrate for 
dextrin. 

Is dextrin soluble in cold water ? Does it differ from starch in 
this respect ? 

Experiment 21.  Test the brown crust of bread, and also the 
white crumb of the center of the loaf, for dextrin. 

Which is the more soluble, hence the more digestible, the crust 
or the crumb of bread ? 

Cellulose.  Cellulose forms the basis of the cell structure 
of plants. Cotton and linen fiber are nearly pure cellulose. 
Paper consists largely of cellulose. Cellulose, as a rule, is 
hard and dense and resists the action of the digestive juices, 
so that when taken as a food, it is excreted without having 
been changed by the digestive juices. The cellulose of 
young and tender plants may be in part digested. Cooking 
tends to soften cellulose, thus making vegetables, cereals, 



CARBOHYDRATES 23 

and fruits more digestible; and it also disintegrates the 
starch granule, making the starch available as food. 

While having but little nutritive value, cellulose is very 
beneficial in the diet, as it is a mechanical stimulus to the 
action of the large intestine, thus tending to prevent consti- 
pation. It also absorbs and dilutes the waste products 
formed during digestion. Uncooked cellulose should not be 
given in large amounts to young children. 

METHODS OF USING STARCH AS A THICKENING AGENT 

Experiment 22.  Method 1. a. Mix 1 tb. flour with 1 tb. water. 

h. Mix 1 tb. flour with 2 tb. water, 
c. Mix 1 tb. flour with 3 tb. water. 

Stir each mixture until it is smooth, noting the time required to 
obtain results. State the proportion of water to be used with 
flour to form a smooth paste. 

Boil i c. water, add some of the boiling water to part (a), stirring 
constantly. Pour this slowly into the rest of the boiling water, 
stirring until it thickens and is smooth. 

Deduce a rule for using starch in the form of a powder, as a 
thickening agent. Let mixture cool and note how it forms a starch 
jeUy. 

Experiment 23.  Method 2. Rub to a smooth paste 1 tb. 
butter and 1 tb. floiu*. Boil J c. water, pour part of it on the butter 
and flour mixtiu'e to thin it. Pom* this slowly into the rest of the 
boiling water, stirring until it thickens and is smooth. 

Deduce a rule for using starch as a thickening agent when some 
fat is used. 

Experiment 24.  Method 3. Melt 1 tb. butter, add 1 tb. flour ; 
when well mixed, add | c. milk or water, stirring until it thickens 
and is smooth. 

Deduce a second rule for thickening with starch when fat is 
used. Compare results with those of the two previous methods. 
Which mixture has the smoothest and richest textm-e? 



24 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Experiment 25.  Brown 1 tb. butter, add 1 J tb. flour, and then 
brown them together ; add  c. water or soup stock, and cook until 
smooth. 

Deduce method of making a brown sauce. How would you 
make a brown gravy for meats ? Compare thickness of Hquid with 
the previous experiments. Is more browned flour required for 
thickening ? Why ? 

Meat and Vegetable Sauces are of two general varieties^ 
white and brown, and from these many sauces may be pre- 
pared by varying the ingredients and the seasonings. 

General Method of Making Sauces.  Melt the butter in 
a stewpan or double boiler, add the flour, and when well 
mixed, add the liquid. If the liquid is hot, add it one-third 
at a time, cooking each portion till thick and smooth. If the 
liquid is cold, it may all be added at once, stirring constantly 
until it thickens and is free from lumps. Add seasoning. 

This method gives the finest quality of sauce, but methods 
of thickening 1 or 2 may be used when the liquid is already 
combined with the meat or vegetable. 

PROPORTION OF FLOUR FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES 

1 tb. flour (J to 1 tb. butter) to 1 c. liquid for cream soups. 

2 tb. flour (2 tb. butter) to 1 c. liquid for ordinary white 

sauce. 

3 tb. flour (2 to 3 tb. butter) to 1 c. liquid for white sauce 

for creamed oysters, etc. 

4 tb. flour (2 to 4 tb. butter) to 1 c. liquid for white sauce 

for croquettes, etc. 

When flour is browned (dextrinized) for brown sauce, the 
amount used must be increased J tb. for every cup liquid, 
as browning causes flour to lose some of its thickening 
power. 



; . 



CARBOHYDRATES 26 

Cornstarch Pudding 

Use method 1 of thickening with starch 

5 tb. cornstarch 1 pt. scalded milk 

i c. sugar i ts. salt 

i c. cold milk  ts. vanilla 

Scald milk in double boiler. Mix dry ingredients with the cold 
milk and stir this into remainder of hot milk. Cook fifteen minutes. 
Add vanilla. Pour into a mold wet in cold water; let stand till 
cold. Serve with sweetened and flavored cream, with boiled cus- 
tard, or with cooked fruit. One half square melted chocolate may 
be added during the cooking. 

At the end of five minutes remove 1 ts. of mixture, again at end 
of ten minutes, and at end of fifteen minutes. Compare the taste 
of the three samples. How long should cornstarch mixtures be 
cooked ? Why does the pudding thicken as it cools ? 

CEREALS 

The grains used chiefly in the United States for breakfast 
foods are com, oats, wheat, and rice. 

Corn is a native American grain and is the most abundant 
food product grown in the United States. It furnishes more 
nourishment for the money expended than most of our 
other foods and, if well cooked, can be made into many 
palatable dishes. 

From com are prepared cornstarch, corn meal, com flour, 
hominy, samp, hulled com, and some *' ready-to-eat " 
cereals, such as com flakes. 

Oats are grown in northern regions and are used exten- 
sively for porridge and, in Scotland, for oat cakes. The 
old-fashioned oatmeal, which was sold in uncooked form and 
had much of the husk left on it, had to be cooked several 
hours; the modern preparations, such as rolled oats, for 
example, are steamed and while still moist the grains are 



26 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



passed between hot rollers; they are, therefore, partially 
cooked and require less cooking in the home. Oats are rich 
in fat, and therefore make a good food for winter. 

Wheat, when finely ground, is the most important of 
bread stuifs, but it is also used extensively as a breakfast 
food. Cracked wheat is the crushed grain with part of the 
bran left on it and should be cooked for several hours. 
Special parts of the wheat grain are used in preparing va- 
rious breakfast foods. Some breakfast foods are prepared 
from a dough made of wheat flour, baked, then dried and 
toasted. 

From wheat are prepared graham, entire wheat, and white 
flour of various grades, many breakfast foods, macaroni, 
spaghetti, etc. 

Rice is a grass native to India. It is the staple food in 
all tropical and semi-tropical regions, and is much used else- 
where. It is said to form the main food of one-third of 
the human race. Being deficient in fat and protein, it 
usually is supplemented with foods rich in these two food 
principles. 



TABLE OF COMPOSITION OF CEREAM (ATWATER) 





Watbb 


Pbotein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
htdbates 


Ash 




Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Entire wheat flour 


11.4 


13.8 


1.9 


71.9 


1.0 


Graham flour . . . 


11.3 


13.3 


2.2 


71.4 


1.8 


White flour (medium) 


12.0 


11.4 


1.0 


75.1 


0.5 


Wheat breakfast food 


9.6 


12.1 


1.8 


75.2 


1.3 


Com meal .... 


12.5 


9.2 


1.9 


75.4 


1.0 


Oat breakfast food 


7.7 


16.7 


7.3 


66.2 


2.1 


Rice 


12.3 


8.0 


0.3 


79.0 


0.4 


Rye flour 


12.9 


6.8 


0.9 


78.7 


0.7 


Macaroni .... 


10.3 


13.4 


0.9 


74.1 


1.3 



CARBOHYDRATES 



27 



Cooking of Cereals.  The chief purposes of cooking cereals 
are: 

(1) To sterilize them. 

(2) To improve flavor and appearance. 

(3) To hydrate the starch and cellulose and rupture the 
tissues, in order to make them more easily digestible. 

As cereals contain from 66 to 79 per cent of starch and 
but 7 to 12 per cent of water, they must be cooked in several 
times their volume of water. Add i ts. salt for every pint 
of water used. 

TABLE FOR COOKING CEREALS 



Rolled Oats . . 
Rice . . . . 
Cream of wheat 
Ck)m meal . . 
Coarse oatmeal 



Amount Dbt 
Cebkal 



1 C. 
1 C. 

ic 

Ic. 



Amount 
Water 



2c. 
2 to 2} 0. 
4o. 
4 c. 
4o. 



TiMB or 
Cooking 



} tofh. 
Ih. 

ih. 

2h. 
3h. 



General Method of Cooking Cereals.  In the upper part 
of a double boiler put the required amount of water and 
salt. When the water boils, add the cereal slowly, stirring 
constantly. Cook for five minutes directly over the fire. 
Place the upper boiler in the lower part of double boiler 
containing boiling water, cover and cook the required time 
without stirring. All cereals must be thoroughly cooked. 

Com Meal Mush 

Moisten the com meal with J c. of cold water before stirring it 
into the boiling water, to avoid having the mixture lumpy. Serve 
the mush hot, or put into square molds, or baking powder cans, 
and, when cold, remove from molds, slice, roll in flour, and sauter 
in hot fat. 



28 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



To wash Rice.  Always wash rice before using it, by put- 
ting it into a strainer and putting the strainer in a bowl of 
cold water, changing the water often until it is clear; this 
removes the loose starch and prevents the rice from becom- 
ing pasty in cooking. 

Baked Rice 

Steam 1 c. rice, J ts. salt in 2i c. stock or water, 1 h. ; add 1 c. 
tomato, 2 tb. butter, } ts. paprika, or a little chopped green pepper, 
J ts. curry powder. Cook fifteen minutes. Put into buttered bak- 
ing dish, cover top with buttered crumbs, and bake till brown, about 
twenty minutes. Curry powder may be omitted and grated cheese 
to taste added in its place. 

Home-made " Ready-to-eat " Cereals.  Heat white, rye, 
or entire-wheat bread slowly in the oven until thoroughly dry 
and a golden brown in color ; cool and crush with a rolling 
pin. This is equal in flavor and digestibility to many of 
the breakfast foods on the market and may be prepared at 
much less cost. Serve with milk or cream. 



AMOUNT OF CEREAL OBTAINED FOR TEN CENTS 
(To he prepared by student) 



 




Price 

PER LB. 


No. LB. roR 

10 Cents 


Total Amounts 


Cereal 


Protein 


Fats 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


1. Commeal . . 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 


.02 


5 


% of lb. 

46 


% of lb. 

9.5 


% of lb. 

377.0 



Weigh " ready-to-eat " breakfast foods and compute 



CARBOHYDRATES 29 

the cost per pound paid for the cereal when so prepared for 
the market. 

To serve Cereals.  As cereals are about three-fourths 
starch, it is not necessary to add sugar, which is but another 
form of carbohydrate, except as a flavor. As they are defi- 
cient in fat, cream is a valuable addition. Milk increases 
both the amount of fat and protein. If fruits are served 
with cereals, they supply organic acids, in which the cereals 
are deficient, as well as mineral matter and sugar. 

Fruits to serve with cereals : 

1. Baked apples 5. Peaches 

2. Stewed prunes 6. Figs or dates, cut in pieces, 

3. Berries may be stirred into the 

4. Sliced bananas cereal before it is taken 

from the fire 

Note.  Put grains of com, oats, rye, in wet cotton ; place them 
where they will get sunshine and keep them well moistened until the 
Strains sprout. Note carefully any changes in the grains and in 
the consistency of their starch content. Why does nature store the 
various food principles in the grains ? What part of the plant is 
the grain ? Plant some of the grains in earth in flower pots and let 
them grow to maturity. 



CHAPTER IV 



VEGETABLES 



COMPOSITION OF VEGETABLES (ATWATER) 





RXFUSB 


Water 


Pbotsin 


Fat 


Cabbo- 


Ash 




% 


% 


% 


% 


HTDBATBB 

% 


% 


Beans, dried . . . 


 


12.6 


22.5 


1.8 


59.6 


3.5 


Beans, lima, fresh- 














shelled .... 




68.5 


7.1 


.7 


22.0 


1.7 


Beans, string . . 


7.0 


83.0 


2.1 


.3 


6.9 


.7 


Beets 


20.0 


70.0 


1.3 


.1 


7.7 


.9 


Cabbage .... 


15.0 


77.7 


1.4 


.2 


4.8 


.9 


Celery . , . . 


20.0 


75.6 


.9 


.1 


2.6 


.8 


Com, green edible 




 










portion . . . 




75.4 


3.1 


1.1 


19.7 


.7 


Cucumbers . . . 


15.0 


81.8 


.7 


.2 


2.6 


.4 


Lettuce .... 


15.0 


80.5 


1.0 


.2 


2.5 


.8 


Mushrooms . . . 




88.1 


3.5 


.4 


6.8 


1.2 


Onions 


10.0 


78.9 


1.4 


.3 


8.9 


.5 


Parsnips . . . . 


20.0 


66.4 


1.3 


.4 


10.8 


1.1 


Peas, dried . . . 




9.5 


24.6 


1.0 


62.0 


2.9 


Peas, fresh-shelled 




74.6 


7.0 


.5 


16.9 


1.0 


Potatoes .... 


20.0 


62.6 


1.8 


.1 


14.7 


.8 


Rhubarb .... 


40.0 


56.6 


.4 


.4 


2.2 


.4 


Sweet potatoes . . 
Spinach .... 


20.0 


55.2 


1.4 


.6 


21.9 


.9 




92.3 


2.1 


.3 


3.2 


2.1 


Squash .... 


50.0 


44.2 


.7 


.2 


4.5 


.4 


Tomatoes . . . 




94.3 


.9 


.4 


3.9 


.5 


Turnips . . . . 


30.0 


62.7 


.9 


.1 


5.7 


.6 


Vegetables f canned . 














Baked beans . . 




68.9 


6.9 


2.5 


19.6 


2.1 


Peas, green . . . 




85.3 


3.6 


.2 


9.8 


1.1 


Com, green . . . 




76.1 


2.8 


1.2 


19.0 


.9 


Succotash . . . 




75.9 


3.6 


1.0 


18.6 


.9 


Tomatoes . . . 




94.0 


1.2 


* .2 


4.0 


.6 



30 



VEGETABLES 

AMOUNT OF NUTRIENTS OBTAINED FOR TEN CENTS 

{To he prepared by student) 



31 







No. or Lbs. 
for 10 Ota. 


Total Amounts 


Pbxcb Vbgstablb 
per lb. 


Pbotbin 

% of lb. 


Fats 
% of lb. 


Cabbohtdbatbs 
% of lb. 















General Composition of Vegetables.  Vegetable foods, 
with the exception of cereals, legumes, and nuts, contain a 
large amount of water, hence a small amount of solid nu- 
trients. Young, fresh vegetables contain a sufficient amount 
of water to hydrate the starch and cellulose content, and so 
may be cooked without the addition of water. Vegetables 
contain but a small amount of protein, their principal solid 
being a carbohydrate, either in the form of starch, sugar, 
pectin, or cellulose. They contain mineral matter which is 
highly important in the diet. 

PARTS OF PLANTS USED FOR FOOD 

Seeds  Peas, beans. 

Roots  Beets, carrots, turnips, parsnips, radishes, sweet potatoes, 

salsify. 
Tvbers  White potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes. 
Bvlbs  Onions, garlic, shallots. 
Stems  Asparagus, celery, chives, rhubarb. 
Leaoes  Cabbage, lettuce, Brussels sprouts, beet greens, water 

cress, spinach. 
Flowers  Cauliflower. 
Fruit  Wheat and the grains, cucumbers, tomatoes, egg plant, 

squash. 
Fungi  Mushrooms, puff balls. 



32 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

To prepare Vegetables for Cooking.  Vegetables should 
be thoroughly cleaned before being cooked. A small scrub- 
bing brush will help to clean potatoes thoroughly and 
quickly. If vegetables are wilted, they should be soaked in 
cold water before cooking. Vegetables that are to be eaten 
raw, as lettuce and celery, must be cleaned with great care, 
as the dirt which adheres to them may contain disease-pro- 
ducing bacteria. Radishes and other small vegetables may 
be dipped quickly into boiling water to destroy bacteria and 
then into ice water to make them crisp. Cabbages, cauli- 
flower, Brussels sprouts should be soaked, heads down, in 
cold water containing salt or a little vinegar, which will 
drive out insects that may be present in them. 

General Method of Cooking Vegetables.  Most of the 
fresh vegetables should be put into boiling salted water to 
cook, the amount of water used varying with the amount 
present in the vegetable to be cooked. Tomatoes do not 
require the addition of any water, and spinach may be 
cooked with the water left on the leaves after washing. 
Green vegetables should boil rapidly during the cooking, 
but for potatoes the boiling should be gentle, that the 
vegetable may not be broken. To prevent them from being 
watery, the boiling should be uninterrupted. All vegetables 
should be well cooked, but they should remain firm, except 
for soups. They should be thoroughly drained, and such 
vegetables as spinach, cabbage, and turnips should be pressed 
lightly to remove part of the water. Peas and beans cannot 
be cooked tender in hard water, hence the salt should be added 
during the last part of the cooking. A very small amount of 
soda may be added to the water in which the beans and 
peas are cooked to soften the water. Vegetables are cooked 
to soften the cellulose, to cause the starch granules to swell 
and burst, to coagulate the protein, and to develop flavor. 



VEGETABLES 33 

Potatoes.  Potatoes are native to South America and 
were brought from there to North America. They were 
introduced into Europe by the Spaniards in the sixteenth 
century, into Ireland by Sir John Hawkins in 1565, and into 
England by Sir Walter Raleigh in 1586. 

Potatoes belong botanically to the same family as the 
tobacco and deadly nightshade. They contain a bitter 
juice called solanine, which lies in and nar the skin. This 
is drawn out into the water when they are boiled or is given 
off in the steam when they are baked. For this reason 
the custom of using for bread making the water in which 
potatoes have been boiled is not desirable. If potatoes 
have to stand after being baked, they should be pierced with 
a fork to allow the steam to escape. 

As potatoes are deficient both in protein and in fat, they 
are usually eaten with milk, eggs, etc., and with some form 
of fat. The protein of potatoes is largely in the form of 
albumen which, with the mineral matter, is dissolved in the 
moisture or juice. As albumen is soluble in cold water, 
there is an appreciable loss of it when the potatoes are peeled, 
cut in pieces, and soaked in cold water. When potatoes 
are placed in boiling water, the starch granules swell and 
burst and absorb the juice, the albumen coagulates, or is 
absorbed by the starch, and the mineral matter also is 
retained. 

Potatoes should be kept in a dry, cool place, and any 
sprouts which may appear should be removed. 

Boiled Potatoes 

Wash and peel potatoes, put them into boiling salted water, 
using 1 ts. salt to every quart of water. Cook about thirty minutes 
or until tender. Drain well. Put the kettle, uncovered, on the 
back of the stove and shake it gently to allow the steam to escape 



34 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

and make the potatoes mealy. Cover the kettle with a towel, 
which will keep them hot and absorb the steam. 

Mashed Potatoes 

Mash potatoes in the kettle in which they were boiled, beating 
until light with a wire potato masher, and moistening with hot 
milk. Add 1 or 2 tb. butter, J ts. salt, and a speck of pepper to 
every pint of potatoes. When beaten until white, creamy, and 
free from lumps, pile them lightly in a warm vegetable dish. Serve 
very hot. 

Baked Potatoes 

Select smooth potatoes of uniform size. Wash and scrub them 
well. Place in a hot oven and bake until soft, about forty-five 
minutes. Serve at once in an uncovered dish. If they must stand, 
pierce with a fork, or break the skin, to let the steam escape. 

Potatoes are more digestible when baked than when cooked in 
any other way, as the intense heat changes some of the starch to 
dextrin, and all the mineral matter and other constituents are 
retained. 

Escalloped Potatoes 

Wash, peel, and slice raw potatoes. Put in layers in a baking 
dish, sprinkling each layer with salt, pepper, flour, and bits of 
butter ; add milk to nearly cover. Cover the dish and bake 1 J h. 
or till the potato is soft. Uncover the baking dish during the last 
half hour of baking to brown the potatoes well. 

Warmed-over Potatoes (Boiled) 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

1 pt. cold boiled potatoes, cut into 2 tb. minced onions 

quarter inch cubes 2 tb. drippings or lard 

 ts. salt 1 tb. chopped parsley 

J ssp. pepper 

Sprinkle the potatoes with the salt and pepper. Fry the onion 



VEGETABLES 36 

till a light brown in the drippings, add the potatoes; stir with a 
fork until they are brown; add the parsley and serve. 1 tb. 
vinegar may be added. 

Stewed Potatoes 

1 pt. cold boiled potatoes, diced 1 or 2 tb. butter 

i c. milk i ts. salt 

i ssp. pepper 1 ts. chopped parsley 

Heat the milk, add the butter and seasoning and the potatoes. 
Simmer gently until the milk is absorbed. Sprinkle with parsley 
and serve. 

Creamed Potatoes 

Cut one scant pint potatoes into one-fourth inch dice, sprinkle 
them with i ts. salt, i ssp. pepper ; add them to 1 c. white sauce, 
and when well heated, sprinkle with 1 tb. chopped parsley and 
serve. 

Potatoes au Gratin 

Slice 3 c. potatoes, sprinkle with 1 ts. salt and 1 ssp. pepper. 
Make 1 pt. white sauce. Put potatoes and sauce in alternate layers 
in a baking dish, having sauce for the top layer. Cover with but- 
tered crumbs. Bake twenty-five minutes or until brown. Grated 
cheese, chopped green pepper, sliced hard-boiled eggs, or 1 tb. 
minced onion may be added to the layers. 

To butter crumbs,  To 1 tb. melted butter, add } c. fine bread 
crumbs. Mix well. 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 

Chop 1 pt. cold boiled potatoes, season highly with salt and 
pepper, moisten them with J c. white sauce. Put 1 ts. lard and 
butter mixed in a thick iron frying pan; when hot, put in the 
potatoes and flatten into a cake. Cook slowly, without stirring, 
keeping the pan covered until a brown crust forms, about twenty 
minutes. * Fold once and turn on to a hot platter. 



36 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Warmed-over Potatoes (Mashed) 

Shape cold mashed potatoes into small round cakes about one- 
half inch thick. Brush with milk or egg beaten with a Httle milk, 
and bake in a hot oven until brown. Or, roll the cakes in flour 
and 9auter in hot fat, browning both sides. 

Potato Puff 

To 1 pt. mashed potatoes, add i c. milk, 2 tb. butter, more salt 
and pepper if needed, 1 tb. chopped parsley, J ts. onion juice, 
cayenne, or paprika to taste, and 1 beaten egg. Pile lightly in a 
baking dish and bake in a hot oven until brown, about twenty 
minutes. Serve in the dish in which it is baked. 

To chop parsley.  Wash parsley, remove the leaves, and dry in 
a towel or absorbent paper. Place on a board, gather the leaves 
closely between thumb and finger, and cut through. If the point 
of the knife is held firmly on the board, a circular and also a chop- 
ping motion can be given to it at the same time. 

To mince onions.  Remove the brown outer covering of the 
onion about halfway down ; score the top of the onion in gashes 
about one-eighth of an inch apart; score again at a right angle, 
then shce across the onion. 

Experiment 26.  Test turnip with iodine for starch. Is the 
carbohydrate present in the form of starch ? 

Turnips.  Turnips are at their best in the fall and early 
winter; toward spring they become tough and fibrous and 
are only good for flavoring and for stews. The flat purple- 
topped turnip, the rutabaga, a large yellow turnip, and the 
large French turnip are the best varieties. Turnips should 
not be overcooked, or they will become dark in color and 
strong in flavor. The summer turnip, when sliced, can 
be cooked in thirty minutes, the winter turnip in from 
forty-five to sixty minutes. 



VEGETABLES 37 

To prepare turnips,  Wash and pare the turnips, and if they are 
to be boiled and mashed, slice them. 

To hail and mash turnips,  Prepare as above and cook in boil- 
ing salted water until tender. Drain well. Mash with a wooden 
masher and season with salt, pepper, and butter. Serve at once. 

Creamed Turnips 

After washing and peehng, cut the turnips into one-fourth inch 
dice ; cook in boihng salted water until tender. Drain well. To 
every pint of turnips, add one cup of white sauce. Reheat and 
serve. 

Turnip Cups with Creamed Pea Filling 

Select small, round turnips. Wash, pare, and cut a slice from 
the large end, so they will stand. Scoop out the inside, forming 
cups with walls about one-fourth inch thick. Cook in boihng 
salted water until tender, about thirty minutes. Drain well and 
fill each cup with peas, heated in a seasoned white sauce. Sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and serve hot. 

Experiment 27.  Test carrot with iodine for starch. Is the 
carbohydrate present in the form of starch ? 

Carrots.  When carrots are boiled in water, large amounts 
of their carbohydrate, in the form of sugar, and of their 
protein, in the form of albumen, are lost in the water. They 
are of value as a food because of their flavor and because of 
their cellulose, which aids in the process of digestion. 

To prepare carrots.  Carrots need not be peeled ; after being 
well scrubbed they should be scraped with a knife ; young car- 
rots may not need even to be scraped. 

Carrots in Bechamel Sauce 

Prepare carrots and cut in one-fourth inch dice, or in thin strips 
about the size of a match and one inch long. Cook in boihng salted 






38 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

water until tender; drain, and reheat in one-half their bulk of 
Bechamel Sauce. 

Bechamel Sauce 

Melt 2 tb. butter, add 2 tb. flour ; stir in 1^ c. milk, as in white 
sauce ; add | ts. salt, i ssp. pepper. When it has thickened, add 
the beaten yolks of 1 or 2 eggs. 

To add yolk of egg to a hot liquid.  Beat the yolks slightly, add 
some of the hot liquid to them until thin enough to pour ; stir 
into the remainder of the hot liquid and cook until the egg thickens 
the mixture shghtly, but do not let the mixture boil, or the sauce 
will separate. 

Tomatoes.  The tomato is probably a native of Mexico 
or Peru. There are several varieties, some having red and 
others having yellow fruit. While the tomato is largely water 
and hence has a low nutritive value, it forms one of our 
most useful vegetables. When overcooked, the tomato be- 
comes dark in color and the flavor is impaired. 

To prepare tomatoes,  Pour boiling water over them and remove 
the skins. If they are to be served raw, do not pour the hot water 
on them, but rub the skin with the back of a knife, when it will 
come off easily. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Peel tomatoes, slice, and cook until they are tender, which will 
be about twenty minutes. About five minutes before the cooking 
is finished, season, using 1 ts. salt, 1 ts. sugar, 1 tb. butter, and i 
ssp. pepper for every quart tomatoes. Small pieces of' bread may 
be added if desired. 

Creamed Tomatoes 

Peel and slice two tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
sauter in 2 tb. hot butter; when soft, put the slices on a serving 
dish and keep warm. Put 1 c. milk in the pan in which the toma- 



VEGETABLES 39 

t 

toes were cooked, thicken with 2 tb. flour according to Method 1 
for thickening. Season and pour over the tomatoes. Serve hot. 
1 pt. milk and 4 tb. flour may be used if more saiice is desired. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

 

Wipe and remove slices from the stem ends of six medium-sized 
tomatoes. Remove seeds and pulp, salt the insides of the tomatoes 
well, invert them, and let stand while the other ingredients are being 
prepared. Cook 1 tb. minced onion and 3 tb. chopped bacon five 
minutes, add IJ c. bread crumbs, \ c. chopped meat, and the tomato 
pulp and cook five minutes. Season with salt and pepper. One 
egg slightly beaten may be added. Fill the tomatoes with the 
mixture, sprinkle with buttered crumbs (and a little sugar, if de- 
sired), and bake until brown, about twenty minutes. The chopped 
meat may be omitted. 

Stuffed Green Peppers 

Remove the stem end from the peppers and take out aU the 
seeds and partitions. Remove small slices from the blossom ends 
so that they will stand. Cover peppers with boiling water, allow 
to stand five minutes and drain. Use the same stufling as for 
tomatoes. Bake one-half hour in moderate oven, basting with a 
little hot water or stock. Boiled rice may be used in place of 
bread crumbs. 

Experiment 28.  Test onion with iodine for starch; with 
Fehling solution for sugar. In what form is the carbohydrate 
found in onions ? 

Onions.  The onion is a native of the Himalaya Moun- 
tains. It contains an essential, volatile oil which gives it 
the characteristic odor and flavor; when eaten, this oil is 
absorbed by the blood and brought to the lungs, so the odor 
will remain for some time on the breath. The onion is con- 
sidered a wholesome, if not a highly nutritious vegetable and 



40 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

is of value because of its stimulating action upon the diges* 
tive tract. 

Boiled Onions 

Peel the onions under cold water. Put them into a sauce pan 
of boiling water, boU five minutes, drain ; cover again with boiUng 
water, cook ten minutes, drain ; re-cover with boiling water', add 

1 ts. salt to every quart water and cook until tender, about forty- 
five minutes. Drain, add milk in desired amount, and thicken with 

2 tb. butter and 2 tb. flour (Method 2 for thickening) for every 
cup milk. Season and serve. 

Boiled Cabbage 

Remove outer leaves, cut cabbage in quarters and soak one-half 
hour in cold water with 1 tb. salt. Put into a large kettle nearly 
filled with rapidly boiling water, add i ts. soda. Cook twenty 
minutes uncovered ; drain, cover again with boiling water, add 1 ts. 
salt to every quart water. Cook twenty minutes or until tender, 
but do not overcook. Drain and serve as desired. A white sauce 
may be poured over it, or salt, pepper, and butter may be added. 

Escalloped Cabbage 

Put alternate layers of chopped boiled cabbage, white sauce, 
and grated cheese in a baking dish. Cover with buttered crumbs 
and bake twenty minutes, or until brown. 

Beans.  Beans and peas being richer in protein than any 
other vegetable food are often used as substitutes for meat ; 
being deficient in fat, salt pork or some other fat may be 
added in the cooking. Dried beans are more easily digested 
if the skin is removed. Beans and peas, as before stated, 
do not cook tender in hard water and a little soda added to 
the water in which they are first boiled will help soften 
them. 



VEGETABLES 41 

Baked Beans 

Soak 1 qt. pea beans over night. Drain, cover with fresh water, 
add 1 ssp. soda, and boU about twenty minutes. Drain. Boil \ 
lb. salt pork twenty minutes. In the bottom of a bean pot put 
1 whole onion, the salt pork, then the beans. Mix \ ts. mustard, 
3 ts. salt in \ c. molasses and pour over the beans. Cover beans 
with the water in which the pork has boiled. Cover the crock 
closely and bake in a very slow oven from four to six hours. Add 
water as needed, keeping them nearly covered with water until 
the last hour of baking. 

Succotash 

1 pt. fresh Uma beans 2 tb. butter or 2 oz. salt pork 

1 pt. com cut from cob salt and pepper 

1 c. milk 

Cook beans and pork in boiling water thirty minutes, add J ts. 
soda, boU one minute, and drain. 

Remove com from cob by scoring down the center of each row 
of kernels, pressing out pulp with the back of the knife, leaving 
the skins on the cob. Add the corn to the beans, and the milk 
(and butter if used), and cook fifteen minutes ; add salt and pepper 
and cook five minutes longer. Serve. 

Succotash may also be made from dried com and beans, soaked 
over night and cooked several hours with a piece of salt pork. 

Corn Fritters 

1 pint com, grated or removed from cob as above, or if canned, 
chopped fine. Canned Komlet is ready to use for fritters. Add 
to the com 6 tb. flour, 1 ts. salt, \ ssp. pepper, beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 
If canned com is used, it may be necessary to add 2 tb. milk. Fold 
in beaten whites of 2 eggs. Sauter by dropping by tablespoonful 
into hot lard, browning on both sides. Serve on a warm platter, 
but do not pile them one on another. One-half ts. baking powder 
may be substituted for 1 egg. 

Macaroni.  Macaroni is served as a vegetable. It is 



42 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

made from a wheat flour rich in gluten. When cooked with 
cheese and milk, it forms a highly nutritious food. It is the 
staple food of the Italians. As a preliminary to any of the 
many methods of preparation, macaroni should be cooked 
until tender in boiling salted water, which will require about 
thirty minutes. 

Baked Macaroni and Cheese 

Put in a baking dish alternate layers of boiled macaroni, white 
sauce, and grated cheese. Season the sauce with salt, cayenne, and 
mustard. Put buttered crumbs over the top and bake about thirty 
minutes, or till well browned. 

Macaroni and Tomato Sauce 

Reheat boiled macaroni in tomato sauce. Variety can be se- 
cured by sprinkling the macaroni with grated cheese; or all may 
be put into a baking dish, covered with buttered crumbs, and baked 
till brown. 

Tomato Sauce 

1 pt. stewed tomatoes J bay leaf 

1 slice onion 1 sprig parsley 

Cook ten minutes; strain. Make a sauce, using 2 tb. butter, 

2 tb. flour, and the strained tomato. Season with i ts. salt and i 

ssp. pepper. 



CHAPTER V 
SUGAR AND FRUITS 

Plants store their carbohydrates in part in the form of 
sugar. Cane sugar, or sucrose (C12H22O11), was formerly 
obtained ahnost entirely from the sugar cane, but now the 
largest amount of sugar on the market comes from the sugar 
beet. Chemically, cane sugar and beet sugar have the same 
properties and cannot be distinguished. In the refining of 
sugar the juices of the cane or beet are extracted by crush- 
ing and pressure, and then go through a process of purifica- 
tion ; the resulting liquid is boiled down to a state of crystal- 
lization. As all the sugar will not crystallize, this liquid is 
drained off and constitutes molasses. When heated, cane 
sugar melts and forms barley sugar, and at a still higher 
temperature, caramel is formed; this latter has a brown 
color and distinctive flavor and is used for coloring and 
flavoring in cookery. Sugar loses part of its sweetness by 
this process. 

Maple sugar (C12H22O11) is obtained by boiling down the 
sap of the maple tree. 

Lactose or milk sugar (C12H22O11) is present in the milk of 

all manmials. It is the form of carbohydrate that is best 

for a young child until it is a year old. Lactose is obtained 

commercially from the whey left as a residue in cheese 

making. It is not as sweet as cane sugar. When milk is 

modified for infant feeding, lactose is the form of sugar 

which should be added. 

Glucose or grape sugar (C6H12O6) is widely distributed in 

43 



44 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

nature and is found in fruits and plant juices, and in small 
amount in the blood of animals. It is not as sweet as cane 
sugar and does not crystallize as readily. It is usually sold 
in the form of a clear, heavy syrup. 

Glucose is obtained commercially by treating starch with 
an acid, which causes the following change to take place : 

CeHioOs + H2O = C6H12O6 
Cane sugar is inverted, or changed to glucose, when boiled 
with an acid. Acid fruits which are cooked for some time 
with sugar are, therefore, not as sweet as when the same 
amount of sugar is added after cooking. Glucose will fer- 
ment with the action of yeast, but cane sugar must first be 
changed to glucose by the enzyme of yeast before fermenta- 
tion will take place. 

Note.  Show samples of cane sugar, be^ sugar, milk sugar, 
glucose. 

Experiment 29.  Put i c. sugar in an omelet pan and stir 
over a moderate fire until it melts. Remove a portion of the syrup, 
which is barley sugar. Continue the heating until the mixture 
browns slightly. Pour all but a small amount of this on an un- 
greased tin to cool. This is caramel. Continue heating a small 
amount of the sugar until it burns or carbonizes. 

Experiment 30.  Pour sulphuric acid (H2SO4) on a small 
amount of dry sugar. The acid will remove the water (H2O). 
What other element is present in sugar ? Repeat experiment with 
glucose. 

Fehling Solution.  Five cubic centimeters of copper sulphate 
solution, 5 cubic centimeters of alkaline Rochelle salts, 20 cubic cen- 
timeters of water. 

Boil all together for two minutes. 

Identification Test for Glucose,  Fehling solution will change 
from a blue color to a copper brown when boiled with glu- 
cose; it will not so change when boiled with sucrose or cane 
sugar. 



SUGAR AND FRUITS 45 

Experiment 31.  Mix a little glucose and water. Add a small 
amount of Fehling solution and boil. 

Experiment 32.  Mix a little cane sugar and water. Add a 
small amount of Fehling solution and boil. There will be no change 
of color if the sugar is pure and the Fehling solution has been 
freshly mixed. 

Experiment 33.  Test the juices of various fruits or small 
pieces of vegetables boiled in water with Fehling solution. In 
what form of sugar do many of the plants store part of their car- 
bohydrates ? 

Candy Making.  See experiments with boiling sugar under 
*' Boiling," page 15. 

Fondant 

Mix 2 c. sugar and | c. water. Put in a stewpan and heat. 
As it begins to boil, wipe down the sides of the kettle with a wet 
cloth. Sprinkle on J ts. cream of tartar and let it boil in, but do 
not stir the syrup. Cover the kettle for a minute or two or until 
the steam comes out around the cover. Remove cover and cook 
syrup to 238 F. or until it forms a soft ball when tested in ice water. 
Pour syrup on a slightly dampened platter and let stand without 
disturbing until all the heat has left it. Work back and forth 
with a wooden paddle or knife until the mixture creams. Knead 
into a smooth ball. Put into a closely covered fruit jar until 
ready to use. The quality of the fondant improves upon stand- 
ing, but it must be kept in a cool, dry place and be closely 
covered. 

To shape.  Add desired flavoring, nuts, etc., to fondant and 
knead until mixed. Shape as desired, putting candies as formed 
on white table oilcloth or on paraffine paper. 

To coat with chocolate.  Melt unsweetened chocolate over hot 
water, adding a few shavings of paraffine ; remove from water and 
let cool a little. Dip fondant balls into it, using a fork ; drain off 
as much chocolate as possible and put candies on white oilcloth 
or marble slab. Let stand until firm. 



46 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



Cream Mints 

Melt fondant over hot water, stirring constantly; flavor with 
peppermint or wintergreen to taste, and add desired coloring. Drop 
from the tip of a spoon on to oilcloth or paraffine paper. If the 
mixture becomes too thick, add a few drops of boihng water. 

Note.  Weigh candies and compute their cost. 



FRUITS 





COMPOSITION OF ] 


FRUITS ( 


:OT-flEN) 




 




Watbb 


SUGAB 


Protein 


AUID 


Abh 




% 


% 


% 


% 


% 


Apples 


85.4 


11.27 


0.64 


0.7 


0.27 


Bananas . . 








73.8 


21.7 


1.17 


0.3 


0.5 


Blackberries . 








86.3 


10.9 


1.3 


0.77 


0.5 


Cranberries . 








88.9 


9.9 


0.4 


2.34 


0.2 


Grapes . . . 








80.12 


16.5 


1.26 


0.59 


0.5 


Huckleberries 








81.9 


16.5 


0.6 




0.3 


Lemons . . . 








88.0 


0.37 




5.39 




Oranges . . . 








86.0 


5.65 




1.35 




Peaches . . . 








88.0 


10.8 


0.7 


0.56 


0.7 


Pineapples . 








85.19 


12.22 


0.48 


0.77 


0.42 


Plums 








78.4 


13.25 


0.4 


1.0 


0.52 


Strawberries . 




 


t 


90.0 


7.0 


0.9 


1.1 


0.6 


Raspberries . . 








84.0 


12.6 


1.7 


1.48 


0.6 



Fruits are composed largely of water ; their solids consist 
of carbohydrates, a small amount of protein, and some 
mineral matter. Although their food value is low, fruits form 
a very valuable addition to the diet, for they contain mineral 
matter in an organic form in which it can be readily absorbed 
by the system. Their organic acids have medicinal proper- 
ties and can also be oxidized in the human system to provide 
heat and other forms of energy. Fruits differ from vege- 
tables in that their carbohydrates are largely in the form of 
sugar, hence they can be eaten without cooking; cooking, 



SUGAR AND FRUITS 47 

however, softens the cellulose, thus making the fruit more 
digestible. 

Care and Preparation of Fruits.  The decay of fruits is 
due to the action of bacteria, their wilting to the loss of 
water ; they should, therefore, be kept in a cool, dry place. 
Large fruits, as pears and peaches, should be wrapped sepa- 
rately in paper, that they may not be bruised. Fruits may 
be kept in good condition for some months by being placed 
in cold storage. As there is danger of harmful bacteria 
clinging to fruits, especially to those that have been trans- 
ported long distances or that have been exposed to the 
dust of the streets, all fruit that is to be eaten raw should 
be first carefully washed. 

Dried fruits regain their origmal bulk and, m part, their 
flavor, when soaked in water, and they form a relatively 
cheap source of fruit supply during the winter months. Pre- 
served fruits, jams, and jellies also form a valuable addition 
to the winter diet. 

Pectin.  Another constituent of fruits is pectin, which 
causes the juices to form a jelly when boiled with sugar. 
Pectin is a carbohydrate and is at its best when fruit is just 
ripe, or a little before it ripens. If fruit is overripe, or if 
the juice ferments, or if it is boiled too long with the sugar 
in making jelly, the pectin undergoes a chemical change and 
loses its power of jellying. Pectin will produce jelly only 
in the presence of a definite amount of organic acid, one- 
half per cent of acid being about the amount required to 
make a good jelly; hence, fruits which contain but little 
acid must be made into jelly before they are ripe, or be 
cooked with acid fruits, or some lemon juice or cream of 
tartar be added to them. 

Identification Test for Pectin.  Mash the fruit, warm, and strain 
through a cheesecloth. Put a small amount of juice in a test tube 



48 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

and add an equal volume of alcohol ; shake well and let stand. The 
pectin will settle out in a gelatinous precipitate. 

Experiment 34.  Test various fruits, noting the amount and 
quality of the precipitate. 

Apples.  The apple is a native of Asia, the crab apple 
being the original or wild apple. The Romans used apples 
centuries ago. The apple is one of our most wholesome 
fruits, eaten either raw or cooked. Some of the best known 
varieties are named here. 

Cooking apples: Greening, Northern Spy, Baldwin, Maiden 
Blush. 

Eating apples: Snow, Bellflower, Rambo, etc. 

Apple Sauce 

Pare and slice 6 tart apples into a granite stewpan; add 1 c. 
water. Cover kettle and cook until apples are soft, add sugar 
and nutmeg to taste. Mash, or put through a colander as desired. 
J ts. butter may be added for flavor. 

Dried Apple Sauce 

Pick over and wash the dried apples and soak in cold water over 
night. Cook until soft in the water in which they were soaked. 
Mash, sweeten to taste, and flavor with lemon juice. 

Baked Apples, No. i 

Select apples of uniform size ; wash and core. Put into baking 
dish, cover bottom of dish with water. Bake for about thirty 
minutes, basting occasionally. They may be served with breakfast 
foods. 

Baked Apples, No. 2 

Core and pare apples; put in a baking dish, fill the centers of 
the apples with sugar, add a small piece of butter ; cover the bottom 



SUGAR AND FRUITS 49 

of the pan with water. Bake until tender, basting often. After 
taking from oven, sprinkle Hghtly with cinnamon and granulated 
sugar, or put red jelly in the centers. 

Apple Compdte 

 

Pare and quarter four apples. Make a syrup with 1} c. sugar 
and li c. water. Boil five minutes. Cook the apples in the syrup 
until tender, but do not let the pieces break. Remove the apples 
and put in a mold. Soak i box gelatine in } c. cold water, add to 
the hot syrup, and stir till dissolved. Add the juice and grated rind 
of J lemon, pour mixture over the apples, and let stand imtil firm. 
Remove from mold and serve with cream sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla. 

Cranberries.  Cranberries are the fruit of a small shrub 
which grows in marshy ground. They ripen in October and 
are valuable because of their excellent keeping qualities. 
Some of the best varieties are grown on Cape Cod and in 
New Jersey. Cranberry bogs are also found in Michigan 
and other parts of the country. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Wash and look over 1 pt. cranberries. Put them in a stewpan 
with 1 c. sugar and J c. water; cover the pan and let them boil 
ten minutes without stirring ; remove the scmn and let them cool. 

Cranberry Jelly 

Wash and look over 1 qt. cranberries. Cook with 2 c. water 
twenty minutes; strain; add 2 c. sugar and boil five minutes or 
until it jellies. Pour into a mold and let stand until it is firm. 



E 



CHAPTER VI 

FOOD PRESERVATION 

Classification of Plants.  1. Green plants contain chloro- 
phyll grains in their leaves, which give them the power of 
converting the carbon dioxide of the air and water from the 
ground into carbohydrates. They feed upon inorganic sub- 
stances in the soil in which they grow. 

2. Colorless plants or fungi do not contain chlorophyll 
grains. They feed upon organic substances in presence of 
warmth and moisture. 

Classification of Fungi.  1. Higher fungi include mush- 
rooms, toadstools, wood fungi, etc. 

2. Molds consist of a dense mass of fibers. They produce 
spores or reproductive bodies which sometimes float in the 
air, settle upon organic substances and, if kept warm and 
moist and out of the simshine, will grow and produce mold 
over the surface of the substance upon which they have 
settled. 

3. Yeasts are visible only under the microscope. They are 
single-celled organisms, oval in shape. They reproduce by 
budding, producing a change in certain organic substances 
called alcoholic fermentation, by which alcohol and carbon 
dioxide are formed. 

4. Bacteria are visible only under the microscope. They 

are much smaller than yeast plants. They are single-celled 

organisms, round, rod-shape, or spiral. They reproduce by 

fission, that is, by dividing in the middle, producing two 

50 



FOOD PRESERVATION 61 

individuals, or by spore formation. Bacteria are very 
abundant, being found everywhere. Some are disease- 
producing; many are non-disease-producing. 

Most organic foods are injured or in time destroyed by the 
presence in them and growth of molds, yeast, and bacteria. 
To preserve food the growth of these organisms must be pre- 
vented. Fresh air and simshine are nature's disinfectants 
and they check the growth of germs or even destroy them ; 
hence the necessity of fresh air and sunshine in all parts of a 
house. 

Molds, yeast, and bacteria are destroyed by heat and by 
certain chemicals. Their growth is checked by low tem- 
perature, by the removal of water, by the aromatic oils of 
spices, by an excess of sugar or salt, by the presence of 
smoke, and by certain acids. While such chemicals as for- 
maldehyde, salicylic acid, benzoate of soda, will preserve 
foods indefinitely by destroying or checking the growth of 
germs, their presence even in very small amounts is harmful 
to the body, hence their use as food preservatives should be 
forbidden by the Pure Food Laws. 

Harmless Methods of Food Preservation 

1. Canning  destruction of germs by heat and the sub- 
sequent exclusion of germs. 

2. Preserving  destruction of germs by heat and the 
preventing of their growth by thick sugar syrup. 

3. Pickling  prevention of growth of germs by acid and 
spices. 

4. Smoking  prevention of growth of germs by smoke. 
6. Sailing  prevention of growth of germs by presence of 

salt. 



62 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

6. Cold Storage  prevention of growth of germs by tem- 
perature of 37 F. 

7. Drying  prevention of growth of germs by removing 
water. 

Harmful Methods of Food Preservation 

Use of formaldehyde, salicylic acid, borax, boric acid, ben- 
zoate of soda, " canning compounds," and alcohol. 

Sterilization and Pasteurization.  Sterilization is the com- 
plete destruction of bacteria. When a thing is free from 
bacteria and other forms of life, it is sterile, no matter how 
the condition is brought about. 

The purpose of pasteurization is to sterilize suflSciently to 
make a food safe without injuring its flavor or digestibility. 
Few bacteria can live in a temperature above 157 F. Some 
bacteria have the power of reproducing by the forming of 
spores which will resist such heat as may destroy the bacteria 
themselves. Dry heat destroys bacteria with certainty only 
at a temperature of 284 F. 

Pasteurization is the raising of a substance to a tempera- 
ture of from 155 F. to 170 F. and the maintaining of this 
temperature for twenty minutes, when the substance should 
be cooled rapidly ; by this process most of the harmful germs 
are supposed to be destroyed. 

Canning and Preserving.  The purpose of canning is to 
destroy by heat germs already present in the food and to 
exclude the entrance of other germs. The purpose of pre- 
serving is to destroy by heat germs already present and to 
protect the food by means of a thick sugar syrup. 

The factors most essential in the processes of canning and 
preserving are (1) the complete sterilization of the food to be 



FOOD PRESERVATION 53 

preserved, (2) the complete sterilization of the cans or jars 
into which the food is to be placed, (3) the complete sealing 
of the jars to prevent the entrance of germs. Vegetables 
contain more spore-forming bacteria than do fruits, hence 
are more diflScult to preserve. 

Methods of Fruit Preserving : 

1.  Prepare fruit, place in jars, fill the jars with syrup, 
put on the cover lightly. Set the jars in a steamer and 
cook till the fruit looks clear and is tender. Fill the jars 
to overflowing with the contents of one of the jars and seal 
securely. 

2.  Make a syrup with desired amount of sugar and 
water, according to the fruit. Cook the fruit in the syrup 
until tender ; put into sterilized jars, filling the jars to over- 
flowing with the syrup. Seal securely. 

Juicy fruits require little or no water. Strawberries are 
better when no water is added, or when they are cooked in a 
very heavy sjrrup. Large hard fruits, such as pears, quinces, 
etc., require longer cooking ; before being placed in the thick 
sjrrup, they should be cooked in a thin syrup or steamed until 
nearly tender. 

To Sterilize Jars: 

Method 1.  Place the jars or glasses in a kettle of cold 
water, having a folded cloth or layers of paper in the bottom 
of the kettle to prevent the jars from coming in direct con- 
tact with the bottom of the kettle. Heat the water slowly 
to the boiling point. Remove the jars and fill immediately 
with fruit and syrup. 

Method 2.  Set the jars in a steamer and steam about 
fifteen minutes. A large steamer may be improvised by 
placing a rack in the bottom of a wash boiler and setting the 



54 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



jaxB on the rack. Do not wipe the inside of the jars with a 
towel as germs may be introduced into the jars by this 
means. Dip rubber rings into boiling water. 



COST OF PRESERVED FRUITS. ETC. 



COBT OF 

Fbuit used 



Cost of 
suoab used 



Total 
Cost 



No. Cans 

FILLED 



Cost per 
Can 



Mabkbt Price 
OF Similar Oak 



Syrup for Canning and Preserving 

One-third to 1 pound of sugar for every pound of fruit. 
For small fruits add 1 to 1} cups water for every pound of sugar. 
For large fruits add 2 to 2} cups water for every pound of sugar. 
Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes before adding 
the fruit. 

Canned Tomatoes 

Cover tomatoes with boiling water, remove skins and hard 
stem end; slice and cook twenty minutes or until soft. Skim 
during the cooking. Fill sterihzed glass jars to overflowing and 
seal securely. 



Canned Tomatoes for Soup 

Wash tomatoes, remove stem ends, but do not peel; slice and 
cook until soft. Rub through a wire strainer to remove seeds and 
skin. Boil the juice and pulp again. Fill sterilized jars and seal 
securely. 



FOOD PRESERVATION 66 

Preserved Peaches 

The skins may be removed more easily from ripe peaches if boil- 
ing water is poured over them, allowing them to stand a few minutes 
and then placing them in cold water. Make a syrup as directed 
and either cook the peaches in it, a few at a time, or place peaches 
in jars and pour the syrup over them, finishing process according to 
directions given. The flavor of the peaches will be improved if a 
few of the peach stones are added to the syrup. 

Pears, plums, etc., may be preserved in the same way. Peel 
the pears with a silver knife. Do not remove the skins from plums, 
but prick them with a large needle or fork to prevent skins from 
bursting. 

Grape Juice (to be used as a beverage) 

8 lb. perfect Concord grapes,  wash and stem. Add 1} qt. 
water and boil twenty minutes. Strain through a double cheese- 
cloth. To every quart of juice add } c. sugar. Boil ten minutes, 
skim; pour into sterihzed jars or bottles, and seal securely. 

Jelly.  Only those fruit juices which contain at least 
one-half per cent of acid and one per cent of pectin will form 
a jelly when cooked with sugar. Almost all fruits contain 
the requisite amount of pectin, but sweet fruits, such as 
peaches, pears, blackberries, contain too little acid ; for this 
reason, acid must be added in order to make them jelly ; an 
acid fruit, lemon juice, or tartaric acid may be used for this 
purpose. As before stated, the pectin is in the best condi- 
tion for jelly making when the fruits are underripe or just 
ripe. 

Fruits should not be overripe ; the more perfect the fruit, 
the clearer will be the jelly. Berries, currants, and grapes 
require no water. Apples and quinces must be cooked in 
water before straining. 



56 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

General Directions for Jelly Making.  Use a porcelain- 
lined or granite kettle. Drain the fruit juice through a jelly 
bag made of cotton flannel or double thickness of cheese- 
cloth. Do not squeeze the bag, but let the juice drip for 
several hours or over night. Measure equal quantities of 
juice and sugar. Boil the juice ten to twenty minutes ; add 
the heated sugar and boil five minutes or until it forms a 
jelly. Pour into sterilized glasses; let stand twenty-four 
hours and cover with melted paraffine. Put tin covers on 
the glasses or cover them with wrapping paper to keep out 
the dust. 

Crab Apple Jelly 

Wash apples, cut in pieces, but do not pare nor remove the seeds. 
Cover with cold water. Boil until soft. Strain as directed, boil 
juice twenty minutes, add an equal volume of heated sugar, boil 
five minutes or until it jellies. Finish as in directions for jelly 
making. 

Grape Jelly 

Select grapes that are not fully ripe, wash, and remove from 
stems. Put into a kettle, mash well, and cook about thirty minutes. 
Strain. Add f c. hot sugar to every c. juice, and proceed as in. 
directions for jelly making. 

Marmalade, Etc. 

Plum Conserve 

4 qt. plums 3 oranges and 1 lemon chopped 

IJ lb. sugar 1 lb. raisins 

 lb. nuts coarsely chopped 

Remove stones from the plums, add the other ingredients with 
the exception of the nuts. Cook until it becomes thick ; add the 
nuts and cook a few minutes longer. Put in glasses and seal as 
directed. 



FOOD PRESERVATION 67 

Pear Ginger 

8 lb. pears 4 lb. sugar 

25 cent jar preserved ginger cut fine 

Peel the pears and cut them fine; add a Uttle water and cook 
until they soften; add the sugar and the ^nger with the juice. 
Cook until thick like a marmalade. Put in glasses and seal as 
directed. 

Grape Jam 

Wash grapes, remove from stems; squeeze the pulp into a 
stewpan. Cook pulp and rub through a strainer to remove seeds. 
Add the grape skins to pulp and J lb. sugar to every pound of 
fruit. Cook slowly until it thickens. Put in glasses and seal as 
directed. 

Spiced Grapes 

Wash grapes and remove seeds as above. To every 7 lb. 
grapes (pulp and skins) add 3 lb. sugar, 1 pt. vinegar, ground 
spices to taste. Boil until the skins are tender and the mixture 
thickens. Put in glasses, sealing as directed. 

Peach Marmalade 

Peel peaches and slice fine. Add 1 pt. sugar to every quart of 
peaches. Let stand three or four hours ; cook quickly twenty-five 
minutes. Put in glasses and seal as directed. 

Pickles 
Sweet Pickles 

7 lb. fruit 3 c. vinegar 

3 lb. brown sugar f c. spice (whole cinnamon, cassia 

buds, cloves, and allspice) 

Tie spices in a cheesecloth bag, boil with the sugar and vinegar 
ten minutes. Add the fruit and cook until fruit is tender. Put in 
jars, fill with the syrup, and seal. 



58 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Small Cucumber Pickles 

Scrub 2 qt. small cucumbers. Put in a bowl with J c. salt; 
cover with boiling water, and let stand over night. Drain. Put 
in a kettle with } pt. small onions, } sweet green pepper with seeds 
removed, 1 c. sugar, and i c. whole spices tied in a bag ; cover with 
vinegar, let come to boiling point, but do not boil. Seal while hot. 

Chili Sauce 

1 doz. ripe tomatoes peeled and f c. brown sugar 

cut up 2 tb. salt 

4 good-sized onions chopped fine 1 pt. cider vinegar 

3 cuciunbers chopped fine 1 tb. mixed ground spices 

2 green peppers chopped fine 

Boil all together slowly for two hours. Put into jars and seal 
while hot. 



CHAPTER VII 

SOUPS 

There are in general two types of soup,  those made 
^th meat or fish stocks and those made with milk or cream ; 
some soups, however, contain both kinds of liquid. 

CREAM SOUPS 

Cream soups are prepared like a thin white sauce, to 
which the vegetable, etc., is added after being mashed 
and strained. Soups are thickened both to improve the con- 
sistency and to keep the vegetable from separating from the 
liquid. 

To hind or thicken soups,  Melt the required butter, add the 
flour, and cook until bubbling ceases. Let this mixture cool, add 
some of the hot soup to make it thin enough to pour, then stir 
this into the remainder of the hot soup and cook until it thickens 
and is smooth. 

Cream Tomato Soup or Mock Bisque 

Scald 1 qt. milk in double boiler. Bind with 4 tb. butter, 6 tb. 
flour. Cook 10 minutes. Add 2 ts. salt, J ts. pepper. Cook 1 pt. 
tomatoes until soft. Strain. Reheat and add ,} ts. soda. Add to 
thickened milk and serve immediately. 

Note for Students.  Why is soda added to the tomato ? 
Why do you not cook the white sauce and tomato together? 

59 



60 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cream of Celery Soup 

3 c. chopped celery 
1 slice onion 

Cook together in 1 pt. water three quarters to one hour. Rub 
through a pur^e strainer. Add water, as it cooks away, to maJce 
one pint. Add 3 c. milk. Bind with 4 tb. butter, 5 tb. flour. 
Cook 10 minutes. Season with 1} ts. salt, } ts. pepper. 

Add J ts. beef extract, or cook the celery in water in which 
chicken or veal has been cooked. 

Cream of Potato Soup 

3 small potatoes, boil and mash. Cook the potatoes until a 
Httle overdone and the soup will not be grainy. Scald 1 qt. miiy 
with 2 slices of onion ; add to the mashed potatoes and strain into 
the upper part double boiler. Bind with 3 tb. butter, 2 tb. floiu*. 
Cook 10 minutes. Add 1} ts. salt, J ts. celery salt, J ts. pepper, 
few grains cayenne, 1 ts. chopped parsley. 

Note to Student.  Why is the amount of flour less than that 
used in other cream soups ? 

Clear Tomato Soup 

1 qt. tomatoes i bay leaf 

1 pt. stock or water 4 peppercorns 

1 small onion 2 cloves 

Sprig of parsley 

Cook together ten minutes or till tomatoes are soft. Strain. 
Bind with 

3 tb. butter Add 2 ts. salt 

3 tb. cornstarch Cook ten minutes 



SOUPS 61 

Cream of Spinach Soup 

Trim roots and wilted leaves from 2 qt. spinach. Wash spinach 
well and cook thirty minutes in 2 c. water with 2 shces onion. 
Rub through pur6e sieve. Add 3 c. milk. Bind with 4 tb. 
butter and 5 tb. flour. Season with 1 ts. salt and a speck of cay- 
enne pepper. 

Baked Bean Soup 

2 c. baked beans 2 c. water 

2 slices onion 2 c. tomatoes 

Cook all ten minutes, press through a strainer. Bind with 2 tb. 
butter, 3 tb. flour. Season with salt, pepper, celery salt, and paprika. 

All cream soups are improved if a little whipped cream is 
added just before they are served, being sure that soup is 
verv hot. 

SOUPS WITH STOCK 

Stock is the liquid extract of meat and bone. 
Proteins present in meat : 

1. Albumen.  Soluble in fresh and slightly salted cold 
water. Coagulates with heat. Builds body tissues. 

2. Globulin.  Soluble in slightly salted cold water. 
Coagulates with heat. Builds body tissues. 

3. Extractives.  Give flavor to the meat. Soluble in hot 
and cold water. Do not coagulate with heat. Do not build 
body tissues. 

4. Collagen of connective tissues.  Forms gelatin when 
boiled with water. Jellies when cold. Does not build body 
tissues, but is a " protein sparer." 

Experiment 35.  a. Cut meat in small pieces and soak in 
cold, sUghtly salted water. What color does the water become? 



62 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

What has been withdrawn from the meat into the water ? What 
effect has cold water upon meat ? How should meat be washed ? 

6. Remove meat from water and heat the water. Note tem- 
perature at which flakes form. Boil. What is the scum which 
forms? Why has it formed? What is the cooking temperature 
for soups? Should the scum which forms in the early stages of 
soup making be removed in making (a) a highly nutritious soup, 
(b) a clear soup ? Are clear soups nutritious ? Why ? 

Experiment 36.  Pour boiling water on meat. Let stand a 
few minutes. Cut meat. What effect did the boiling water have 
upon the surface of the meat? What is the color of the water? 
Does boiling water draw out the juices of meat ? 

Experiment 37.  Hold a piece of meat directly over a hot 
fire, as in broiling. Turn often. Place meat on a dish. Cut it. 
What effect did high temperature of fire have upon the meat ? Com- 
pare the flavor and color of the meat with boiled meat. What 
effect does high-temperature cooking have upon the flavor of meat ? 

Meat is cooked in water : 

a. In making soup; all of the nourishment of the meat 
should be drawn out into the water. 

b. In stews ; part of the nourishment should be left in the 
meat. 

c. For serving meats whole ; all of the nourishment should 
be retained in the meat. 

For (a) the meat should be cut in small pieces, put on the 
stove in cold, slightly salted water, and simmered gently for 
five or six hours. 

For (6) the meat should be cut in pieces suitable for 
serving, covered with boiling water, and then simmered 
gently for two or three hours, the salt being added when 
meat is about half cooked. 

For (c) the meat should be left whole, be plunged into 
boiling water, allowed to boil five minutes to coagulate the 



SOUPS 63 

protein on the surface, then sunmered gently imtil tender, 
the salt bemg added when it is about half cooked. 

Soup Stock.  The cheapest and toughest cuts of meat 
may be used in making soups. The hind shin of beef or 
the rump bone, the knuckle of veal, the neck of mutton, 
may be used. Left-overs of meats and vegetables may 
be saved and added to the stock, and the trimmings of 
meat and bone sent from the butcher's may be used for the 
same purpose. The soup kettle should be of granite or, 
if of iron, it should be very smooth or porcelain-lined. 
The cover of the kettle should fit closely to retain the 
steam. 

The scum which rises on the soup consists of the albumen 
and globulin of the meat and should not be removed. The 
long-continued action of hot water upon the collagen of the 
connective tissues will change it to gelatine and the fibers 
and bones will alone be removed upon straining. The stock 
should simmer gently for five or six hours, be strained through 
a colander, and allowed to cool, so that the fat may come to 
the surface and form a cake, which should be removed before 
the stock is used. In clear soups, every particle of fat must 
be removed. 

A brown stock may be made by browning about one 
third of the meat and vegetables before adding them to the 
stock kettle. 

About two thirds of the meat used should be lean, the 
other third, bone and fat. 

Do not wash meat by putting it into water to soak, but 
wipe thoroughly with a damp cloth before cutting. 

A general rule for stock: To every pound of meat and 
bone allow 1 qt. cold water, 1 ts. salt, 4 peppercorns, 4 cloves, 
J ts. mixed herbs, 1 tb. each vegetable cut fine. 



64 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Stock 

2 lb. shin of beef 2 ts. salt 

2 qt. cold water 4 allspice 

6 cloves 1 sprig parsley 

8 peppercorns 1 small onion 

i ssp. celery seed J small carrot 

J ts. mixed herbs (whole)  small turnip 

Wipe, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put into the cold 
water with the vegetables and seasoning, and soak J h. before 
heating ; heat gradually and let sinmier 5 or 6 h. Strain and cool 
quickly. When ready for use, remove all fat ; heat, and season to 
taste. 

Brown Soup Stock 

4 lb. shin of beef 6 cloves 

i ts. peppercorns i c. each, turnip, carrot, 

J bay leaf onion, and celery cut 

4 ts. salt in dice 

4 qt. cold water 2 sprigs parsley 

Wipe 'beef. Cut lean meat into inch cubes. Brown one third 
of meat in hot frying pan in the marrow from bone. Put remainder 
of meat and bone in soup kettle with water and let stand i h. 
Add browned meat, the vegetables, and seasoning, and heat gradu- 
ally. Cook slowly 5 or 6 h., keeping just below the boiling point ; 
strain and cool ; remove fat. 

Tomato Soup 

1 pt. stewed and strained 1 pt. stock 

tomatoes Salt and pepper to taste 

J ts. sugar 

Add tomatoes to boiling stock; season, and serve with crou- 
tons. 



SOUPS . 65 

Vegetable Soup 

1 qt. stock i c. onion 

1 pt. boiling water  c. peas 

 carrot  c. celery 

i turnip  c. tomato 

i potato 1 tbsp. rice 

Cut vegetables into uniform pieces or chop fine. Boil carrot 
and turnip, celery, onions, and rice in water 20 m. ; add other vege- 
tables and cook till tender. Add stock, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Boil 10 minutes and serve. 



Bouillon 

5 lb. lean beef 1-3 c. each carrot, turnip, 

2 lb. bone onion, celery 

4 qt. cold water J ts. peppercorns 

1 tb. salt 

Wipe, and cut meat into inch cubes. Put two thirds of meat in 
soup kettle with bone and water, and soak J h. Brown remainder 
of meat in marrow from bone, put into the soup kettle, heat slowly 
and sinuner 5 h. Add seasoning and vegetables. Cook 1 h., 
strain and cool. Remove every particle of fat and clear. Serve 
in cups with a slice of lemon. 



To clear Soup 

Allow the white and shell of 1 egg to every quart of stock, season 
with  ssp. celery seed, salt to taste, and add the thinly shaved rind 
of J lemon. 

Crush the shell, beat the white slightly, and add all to cold 
stock. Stir constantly till boiling point is reached. Boil 2 m. 
Set back where it may simmer 20 m. Strain through double thick- 
ness of cheesecloth. Reheat and serve. 



66 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

White Soup Stock 

3 lb. knuckle veal 1 large staJk of celery 

1 lb. lean beef J ts. peppercorns 

3 qt. water J bay leaf 

1 onion 2 sprigs tli3mGie 

6 slices carrot 2 cloves 

"Wipe, and cut meat into small pieces. Break the bone in several 
places. Put into a soup kettle and cover with cold water. Sim- 
mer gently for 4 h. Add vegetables and seasoning and simmer 1 h. 
longer. Strain; when cool, remove fat. 



Corn Soup 

1 pt. grated com or komlet 4 tb. flour 

1 qt. white stock or water 1 ts. chopped onion 

1 pt. milk Salt and pepper 

3 tb. butter Beaten yolks 1 or 2 egg3 

Cook the com and onion in stock or water 20 m. Rub through 
a sieve and add milk. When boihng, bind with the flour and butter. 
Add seasoning. Just before serving add the beaten yolks and serve 
immediately. 

Cauliflower Soup 



4 c. hot white stock 


1 bay leaf 


i cauliflower 


i c. flour 


3 tb. butter 


2 c. milk 


1 sUce onion 


Salt 


1 stalk celery 


Pepper 



Soak cauhflower, head down, 1 h. in cold water. Cook in boiling 
salted water 20 m. Reserve a quarter of the flowerets, and rub 
remaining cauhflower through sieve. Cook onion, celery, bay leaf, 
in butter 5 m., but do not brown. Remove bay leaf, add flour, and 
stir into hot stock ; add cauliflower and milk. Season, strain, add 
flowerets, and reheat. 



SOUPS 67 

Force Meat Balls (to serve* with stock soups) 

Chop cold cooked meat fine; season highly with salt, pepper, 
sweet herb, onion, etc. ; moisten with yolk of egg and a little stock 
or water. Mold into small balls, roll in flour, and brown in hot 
fat. Serve with soup ; or make larger balls and serve with a tomato 
sauce as a meat dish. 

Croutons 

Cut stale bread in i inch slices and remove the crusts. Butter 
the slices lightly and cut them into ) inch cubes ; bake them till 
they are a delicate brown. 

Toast Sticks or Rounds 

Cut bread into sticks or rounds, spread these with butter, and 
sprinkle with grated cheese ; bake until the cheese is melted. Serve 
very hot. 

Crackers 

Spread lightly with butter and cook in the oven until they are 
crisp. 

Note.  Student write recipes for other cream soups, compar- 
ing them with those found in standard cook books. 



CHAPTER VIII 

PROTEIN EGGS 

Protein holds an important place among the food principles, 
for it is the only one which supplies the nitrogenous materials 
necessary for the building and repair of the tissues of the 
body. As the tissues of the body contain nitrogen, foods 
must be supplied which contain nitrogen in a form in which 
the body can use it. Protein forms the basis of all living 
cells, being an essential part of the protoplasm, a jellylike 
content of the cell. Sugars and starches contain no nitrogen 
and for this reason obviously cannot serve the important 
purpose which protein does. Without protein foods the 
body will weaken and undergo nitrogen starvation, or a 
breaking down of the tissues. 

The protein molecules are very complex, containing prob- 
ably many atoms each of the various elements of which 
they are composed. While something is known of the ar- 
rangement of these atoms, much is still to be learned and 
their chemical formulae have not been determined. Besides 
their important functions as tissue builders, the proteins 
serve also as heat-giving foods, as they contain carbon and 
hydrogen. Some of the substances into which they are 
changed during digestion are capable of forming fat in the 
body. To depend chiefly on protein, however, for fuel and 
for body fat is undesirable for many reasons, one of which 
is that foods rich in protein are almost always high priced. 
Fortunately, carbohydrates and fats seem to act to some 

68 



PROTEIN  EGGS 69 

extent as protein sparers, and when they are used in suffi- 
cient quantity, they prevent undue destruction of protein 
for the production of heat. 

Identification Test for Protein,  Put raw white of egg in a 
saucer. Cut with a pair of scissors until you can take up a spoon- 
ful. Put i ts. of it in a test tube with a little water, add a few drops 
of nitric acid (HNOj). A white precipitate forms which when 
boiled turns yellow. This yellow color is characteristic of protein. 
When the mixture is cool, add a few drops of ammonia (NH4OH). 
An orange-brown color wiU result. 

ExpEBiMENT 38.  Test various foods to detect the presence of 
protein. Tabulate results. 

Experiment 39.  Part 1. Prepare raw white of egg by cutting 
with scissors, and add to a small part of it ten volumes of water ; 
filter through filter paper. Test the filtrate for protein. Is pro- 
tein soluble in cold water ? 

Part 2. Repeat, using boiling water with white of egg. Is albu- 
men soluble in boiUng water ? In cooking meats in water, when 
should they be placed in cold water ? in boiling water ? 

Experiment 40.  Remove the residue of egg white left in the 
filter paper of Part 1 of the previous experiment, and put it in a 
test tube. Add a weak salt solution; mix well; filter. Test 
filtrate for protein. 

Is globulin soluble in weak salt solution? When should you 
add salt to water in cooking meats ? 

Experiment 41.  Effect of heat upon albumen and globuhn. 

Put half the white of an egg in a test tube. Put a thermometer 
in the tube and place it in a pan of cold water, having water deep 
enough to surround the egg; heat the water gradually. Note 
temperature when the first signs of coagulation are seen in the egg. 
At 180 F. remove some of the albumen ; continue heating to 212 
F. Compare the consistency of albumen cooked at 180 F. and 212 
F. What is the correct temperature for " soft-cooked " eggs ? 

^ Experiment 42.  (a) Boil 1 pt. water, place two eggs in it, 



70 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

remove from fire, keeping kettle closely covered to retain heat. At 
end of six minutes, remove one egg ; remove the other at the end 
of ten minutes. 

(6) Put an egg in boiling water and let boil three and one-half 
minutes. 

Compare the consistency of the three eggs. Is there any dif- 
ference ? What is the best method for cooking eggs soft ? 

Experiment 43.  (a) Cook an egg in boiling water for seven or 
eight minutes. 

(6) Cook an egg in water just below the boiling point for twenty 
minutes or longer. 

Compare (a) and (&). Note difference in consistency of yolks 
and whites. What is the best method of cooking eggs hard? 
What effect does the temperature of 212 F. have upon pro- 
tein? 

Classification of Proteins.  All proteins contain nitrogen, 
carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, sulphur; some contain also 
phosphorus and iron. However, there are many forms of 
protein, all possessing widely varied chemical and physical 
properties. By such experiments as those that have been 
performed and others much more complicated and extended, 
scientists have learned enough about these substances to 
classify them as follows : 

I. Simple Proteins : 

A. Albumen, found in egg, blood, milk, etc. 
Properties : (1) Coagulates with heat 

(2) Soluble in water 

(3) Soluble in weak salt solution 

(4) Insoluble in strong salt solution 

B, Globulin, found in egg, muscle, blood, milk, etc. 
Properties : (1) Coagulates with heat 

(2) Insoluble in water 

(3) Soluble in weak salt solution 

(4) Insoluble in strong salt solution 



PROTEIN  EGGS 71 

C. Alcohol-Soluble Proteins 

(1) Glutenin and gliadin, found in wheat, which, 

when mixed with water, unite to form 
gluten 

(2) Legumen of peas and beans 

2>. Albuminoids or proteins found in skeleton and framework. 
Principal form is coUagen, which is found in the white fibers 
of connective tissue and which, when boiled with water, 
forms gelatin 
Properties : (1) Dissolve in hot water 
(2) Form a jelly when cold 

E. Extractives 

In the animal body proteins are constantly breaking down 
into simpler substances, some of which contain nitrogen. 
At the time of killing, some of these nitrogenous sub- 
stances are in the tissues; they can be extracted with 
water and for this reason the name "Extractives" has 
been given them. As a human food they serve as mild 
stimulants and also as flavoring materials. It is not 
thought, however, that they can be used as building 
stones. If an animal is fed on a diet in which extractives 
are the only nitrogenous substances, it dies of what is 
called nitrogen starvation. 

The extractives are not coagulated by heat ; they will, there- 
fore, remain in solution when meat juice is heated. Not 
so, however, the albumen and globulin of meat juices; 
they are coagulated at a certain temperature and rise to 
the surface and form a scum. A beef broth, therefore, in 
which the proteins have been coagulated and removed by 
skinmiing or straining is wholly lacking in tissue-forming 
substances ; it is mildly stimulating, however, i.e. it spurs 
on the various processes of the body and may be the 
means of suppljdng water in a very acceptable form. 

II. Conjugated Proteins.  Proteins which contain some other 

molecule united to the protein molecule 



72 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



A. Phospho-proteins.  Are compounds of protein with a phos- 

phorus-containing substance. They are especially 
adapted to furnish the material for tissue growth. 
They are present in the casein of milk and vitellin of 
egg yolk. 

B, For other forms of protein see "Chemistry of Food and 

NutritioD," H, C, Sherman, 



EGGS 



,' Embryo or germ from 
/ which chicken ohvelops 



TWistsd white cords 
upon which the 
yoik reyoivtz  




j\'Air space 



6hell-"^ 



-^ixin tiaing 
fho 9helf 



Sbction of a Hen's Eqo 



Composition of Edible Portion of Eggs  (H. C. Sherman) 
Water, 73.7%; Fat, 10.5%; Protein, 14.8%; Ash, 1.0%. 

Composition of Yolk of Egg 
Water, 50.9%; Fat, 31.75%; Protein, 16.2%; Ash, 1.09%. 

Composition of White of Egg  {Hutchinson) 
Water, 85.7%; Fat, 0.25%; Protein, 12.6%; Ash, 0.59%. 

Eggs contain all the elements necessary for the growth of 
the body, as from the egg the yoimg chick is formed. They 
are lacking, however, in carbohydrates, so it is better to eat 
them with bread, rice, potato, or other starchy foods. The 



PROTEIN  EGGS 73 

yolk of the egg forms a valuable source of iron and phos- 
phorus for the body. 

The edible portion of newly laid eggs almost fills the shell, 
but as the shells are porous the water evaporates, and air, 
containing decomposing bacteria, takes its place. As it is the 
presence of these bacteria which causes the egg to spoil, the 
principle of egg preservation is to prevent the evaporation 
of water by filling the pores of the shell. This is accomplished 
by placing the eggs in a solution of water glass. A fresh egg, 
containing more water than a stale one, will sink in water. 

To preserve eggs in water glass (sodium silicate),  Boil ten to 
twelve quarts of water, rain water if possible. When cold, add one 
quart of water glass. Place clean, strictly fresh eggs in crocks, small 
ends down, and cover them with the water glass mixture. As the 
eggs will keep fresh for months, they may be preserved when the 
price is lowest. 

Price of eggs : . . . . January .... September 

. . . . April .... November 

When eggs are beaten, the tenacity of the albumen causes 
them to entangle air, thus increasing their bulk many times. 
In a cake or other mixture subjected to the heat of the oven, 
the air expands and lightens the mixture. If the egg is to 
be used to make mixtures light, we beat the egg well. For 
other purposes, to enrich or thicken mixtures, for example, 
there is no object in beating it more than enough to break it 
up and to insure its even distribution. 

The loss of weight when eggs are boiled is due to elimina- 
tion of water. The coagulation is a rearrangement of the 
atoms of the molecule, but there is no change in composition. 

When eggs are brought into the house, they should be 
washed and then put into a cool, dark place. They will keep 
better if perfectly clean, and it is a convenience to have the 
shells ready for use in clearing cofiFee. 



74 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Soft-cooked Eggs 

Put eggs into boiling water to well cover them. Remove kettle 
from stove and place where it will keep warm. Leave the eggs in 
the water from six to eight minutes. 

Hard-cooked Eggs 

Cook eggs in water just below the boiling point for twenty 
minutes. The yolks will then be dry and mealy and will be easily 
digested. 

Creamed Eggs 

Cut four hard-cooked eggs in halves or quarters and pour over 
them one cup white sauce. 

Egg Toast 

Add the chopped whites of 3 hard-cooked eggs to 1 c. thin white 
sauce and pour over three slices of toast. Rub the yolks through a 
strainer over the whole. Reheat in the oven, if necessary. Garnish 
with parsley and serve. 

Poached Eggs 

Have a shallow pan nearly full of boiling salted water. Reduce 
heat until the water is motionless. Break the eggs into a saucer, 
one by one, and slip into the hot water. When a film has formed 
over the yolks and the white is firm, take up with a skimmer and 
place on pieces of toast of uniform shape and size. 

Baked Custard 

2 c. milk \ c. sugar 

2 or 3 eggs Pinch of salt 

Nutmeg 

Beat eggs slightly, and add to them the sugar and salt. Pour 
on them the milk. Strain into a buttered mold, add nutmeg. 



PROTEIN  EGGS 76 

Set mold in a pan of hot water. Bake in a slow oven till firm and 
until a knife inserted will come out clean. Do not allow the water 
around the custard to boil, as egg and milk combinations must cook 
at a low temperature or they wiU separate and become watery. 
Allow 2 eggs for cup custards and 3 if baked in a large mold. 

General Rules for Omelets.  The pan for an omelet should 
be very clean and smooth. Allow one tablespoonful of 
water or milk to each egg used. For creamy omelets, beat 
the eggs slightly; for beaten omelets, beat the yolks and 
whites separately imtil very light. Chopped meat, chicken, 
vegetables, cheese, etc., may be spread over an omelet just 
before folding. 

Creamy Omelet 

4 eggs ) ts. salt 

4 tb. milk or water  ssp. pepper 

Beat eggs slightly, add other ingredients, mix well, and pour 
into a hot, buttered omelet pan. Lift gently with a fork as it begins 
to cook, letting the uncooked egg run under. When of a creamy 
consistency, roll and turn out. 

Ham Omelet 

Make the same as creamy omelet, and as soon as it begins to 
thicken, spread with 3 tb. finely minced ham. Roll and serve. 
Veal and chicken may be used the saine way. 

Beaten Omelet 

Beat yolks of two eggs till lemon-colored and thick, add 2 tb. 
milk, 1 ssp. salt, i ssp. pepper, fold in the beaten whites. Pour 
immediately into hot, buttered omelet pan, let brown on one side 
slightly, set in the oven to dry on top a little, fold, and turn on 
to hot platter. 



76 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Potato Omelet 

Chop 2 boiled potatoes fine, brown in 1 tb. hot butter, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. ' Keep warm while you 
make a creamy omelet. When the omelet is partly set, spread 
potatoes over it, roll, and serve. 

Spanish Omelet 

3 tb. chopped bacon 

1 tb. chopped onions 

2 tb. chopped green pepper 

5 button mushrooms, chopped 
1 c. tomatoes 

Fry bacon, add onion and pepper, and cook till light brown. 
Add tomatoes and cook till of consistency of white sauce. Add 
mushrooms and salt to taste. 

Make a creamy omelet and just before folding spread with this 
mixture, or pour around a beaten omelet after it is on the platter. 



CHAPTER IX 
COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF MEATS 



Farmers' Bulletin No. 142, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture 



Beef: 

Porterhouse steak 

Sirloin steak . 

Ribs . . . 

Round . . . 

Rump . . . 

Flank . . . 
Veal: 

Leg .... 

Breast . . . 

Leg cutlets . 
Mutton : 

Leg, hind . . 

Loin chops . 

Flank . . . 
Lamb : 

Breast . . . 

Leg, hind . . 
Pork: 

Ham (fresh) . 

Loin chops . 

Shoulder . . 

Ham (smoked) 

Salt pork . . 

Bacon . . . 



Rbfuse 



Per ct. 

12.7 
12.8 

20.8 

7.2 

20.7 

10.2 

14.2 

21.3 

3.4 

18.4 

16.0 

9.9 

19.1 
17.4 

10.7 
19.7 
12.4 
13.6 

7.7 



Water Pbotein 



Per ct. 

52.4 
54.0 
43.8 
60.7 
45.0 
54.0 

60.1 
52.0 
68.3 

51.2 
42.0 
39.0 

45.5 
52.9 

48.0 
41.8 
44.9 
34.8 
7.9 
17.4 



Fat 



Carbo- 
hydrates 



Per ct. 
19.1 

16.5 
13.9 
19.0 
13.8 
17.0 

15.5 
15.4 
20.1 

15.1 
13.5 
13.8 

15.4 
15.9 

13.5 
13.4 
12.0 
14.2 
1.9 
9.1 



Per ct. 

17.9 
16.1 
21.2 
12.8 
20.2 
19.0 

7.9 

11.0 

7.5 

14.7 
28.3 
36.9 

19.1 
13.6 

25.9 
24.2 
29.8 
33.4 
86.2 
62.2 



Per ct. 



Ash 
Per ct. 

0.8 
0.9 
0.7 
1.0 
0.7 
0.7 

0.9 
0.8 
1.0 

0.8 
0.7 
0.6 

0.8 
0.9 

0.8 
0.8 
0.7 
4.2 
3.9 
4.1 



77 



78 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Structure of Meat.  Experiment 44.  Pick apart with 
needles some of the fibers of uncooked meat. Examine fibers under 
a microscope. Make drawings, noting the stripes (strise) on fibers. 
Describe fibers of meat. 

The fibers or tubes are held together in bundles by means 
of eoimective tissues; these connective tissues consist of 
collagen, which is converted into gelatine by boiling in water. 
Thus, in cooking, the connective tissues are changed and the 
meat becomes more tender. The harder and tougher the 
connective tissues of the meat, the longer the time which 
will be required in cooking to change them to gelatine. In 
tender meats the collagen is changed by the steam formed 
from the juices of the meat in the processes of boiling and 
baking, but a large amount of water must be added to very 
tough meats to bring about this conversion. Hence tough 
meats must be cooked for a long time in a liberal amount of 
water and the temperature be kept just below the boiling 
point, in order that the protein may not be toughened. 

Tender Meat.  Muscles which are least used by the ani- 
mal are the most tender, as those of the tenderloin, loin, and 
ribs. These command the highest market prices. The tube 
walls of the muscles are thin and delicate and there is little 
connective tissue. The tougher cuts of meat are equally 
nutritious and are much cheaper, and may be made into very 
palatable dishes. 

Beef.  The best beef is obtained from steers, four to six 
years old, which are raised in the West and shipped alive to 
Chicago or some other packing center. After slaughtermg, 
the animal is dressed and divided into quarters, which are 
placed at once in cold storage in order that they may cool 
quickly, for this improves their quality. From the cold 
storage rooms the beef is shipped in refrigerator cars to 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 79 

different parts of the country. Beef should hang from two 
to four weeks that it may become tender, but is often kept 
a much longer time without deterioration. 



DuoHAH SemriHa Bonu ins ini Viuotra Muurr Ctirs CWDliim* ftod Figh) 



Nahib of Can 



2. PorterbouM. 



80 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Points to Note in Jvdging Beef 

1. It should be a bright red color after it has been cut a 
short time. 

2. It should be well marbled with yellowish fat, 

3. It should have a thick layer of fat overlying the muscles. 

4. It should be firm to the touch, 

5. It should be free from disagreeable odor. 



MARKET CUTS OF BEEF 
p>unoffTapt:9 nted Dv pftmiitloa of TeatJiert College, Celuf 



Sg^^ond cut Prime Rib 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 81 



1. Chuck 8te*k 2. Skirt Stesk 3. Flank Stesk 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 




(a) Beat Chc^. 

(b) Poorer Chops. 
RoB.-t and SteakH. 



Bed End Raaated. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 83 

Veal.  Veal is the meat obtained from the calf. The 
flesh should be pink, and the fat white. If the flesh is white, 
the animal has been bled before being killed, or is too young 
to be fit for food. Veal may be obtained throughout the 
year, but is in season in the spring. 

Side or Vkal 




1. Nedc. 3. Shoulder. 5. Breast. 7. Loin. 9. Leg. 

2. Chuok. 4. Fore Shank. 6. Ribe. 8. Flank. 10. Hind Shank. 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 34, U. S. Dept. Agriculture 

Veal should be thoroughly cooked and highly seasoned. 
Being deficient in fat, pork or butter should be used in the 
cooking. Veal is divided into fore and hind quarters. The 
fore quarter is divided into the breast, shoulder, ribs, and 
neck ; the hind quarter into the loin, leg, and knuckle. Cut- 
lets and fillets are taken from the thick part of the leg, cor- 
responding to the round of beef. 



84 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Mutton and Lamb.  Mutton is the name applied to the 
meat of sheep. The best mutton comes from a heavy animal 
about three years old. The flesh should be of a bright red, 

MUTTON AND LAMB 
DuQKAH Sbowikq Bohib and ViBiODH MiAxeT Cma (Williuns and Fiabet) 



Names or Cdtb Food Ubeb 

1. Loin. Chops, (h) Beet vbopa- 

Cb) Poorer cbopa. 

2. Lei. Rout or boiled whole Kod slaaks. 

3. Ribs. Chops, (c) Beet cbopa. 

(d) Poorer chofw. 

4. Shouldst. Stuffed ami roaslsd. 
fi. Breast. etew. 

and the fat hard and white. The meat should hang from 
two to three weeks to be in the best condition. The strong 
flavor of mutton may be lessened by removing the pink 
skin and trimming off the superfluous fat. Mutton ranks 
with beef in nutritive qualities. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 85 

Lamb is the name applied to the meat of lambs. When 
killed from six weeks to three months old, it is known as 
spring lamb, and may be procured as early as February, but 

Side or Mutton 




1. Neck. 

2. Chuck. 

3. Shoulder. 



4. Breast. 

5. Loin and Ribs. 

6. Leg. 



Farmers' Bulletin No. 34, U. S. Dept. Agriculture 



is scarce till March. Lamb may be eaten soon after the 
animal is killed and dressed. The bones of lamb are pink, 
while those of mutton are white. Lamb is preferred well 
done; mutton is often eaten rare. 



86 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lamb and mutton are divided into two parts by cuttii^ 
through the backbone, then subdivided into the hind and 
fore quarter. The ribs and loins are used for chops and 
roasts. The leg is sold whole for boilii^ or roasting. The 
breast is generally used for stews and the neck for broth. 



a<IZ 


Rib 


Choi*. FrancbBd. 




5 wide. RihcboiMi. 


id4 


Lohi 








7. Bliule shoulder chop 








B. Round-b 


oe 





Pork.  Pork is the meat of the hog. It contains more 
fat than that of any other animal. The lean should be fine- 
grained and of a pale red color, the fat white, and the skin 
clear and smooth. Reject the meat if the fat is a yellowish 
white and full of small kernels, and the flesh soft. The hind 
legs are salted and smoked and are called ham. Sugar-cured 
hams are the best. The shoulders are also salted and 
smoked and sold cheaper as "picnic hams." The ribs and 
loin are used for chops and roasts. The flank, which lies 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 87 

just below the ribs, is salted and smoked and called bacon. 
The best salt pork comes from the back on either side of 
the backbone. The solid fat which lies inside the flank is 
known as leaf lard. 

PORE 
DusSAji Saowma BoHie im VASiora Mabevt Cuts (Willitmu nod Fiiher) 



NamibotCdm 


FoodUb 


Loitu 


Chops or rot. 


Rite. 


ChopsorroMt. 




Boiled or iliced and broi 


Shoulder or piooichsm. 


Poorer cut of hiun. 


Breaat, 




Cleu tttck fat. 


Salt pork. 


Jowl. 


Hwd cbeew, etc 


Pigifeet. 


Picttod. 



The tenderloins, of which there are two, lie under the 
backbone and extend from the ribs under the loin. Pork 
should be thoroughly cooked to be wholesome. It should 
not be eaten except in cold weather and never by children 
or people of weak digestion. 

Note.  Students obtain prices of the various cuts of meat and 
tabulate them to show, 

(1) Prices procured by self, from " family " butcher. 

(2) Highest prices procured by any member of class. 

(3) Lowest prices procured by any member ot class. 

Each class should visit a local meat market to inspect meat. 



88 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



General Methods of Cooking Meats : 1. Application of 
intense heat to keep in the juices and develop flavor. This 
is suitable for tender meats only. Broiling, roasting. 



SiDB OF POBX 




1. Head. 


5. Breast 


2. Shoulder or Picnic ham. 




3. Back fat. 


7. Ribe. 


4. Middle cut. 


8. Loin. 



2. Cooking in water at low temperature. This is suitable 
for tough meats, bone, gristle, etc. Soups, stews. 

3. Browning or searing the meat with high temperature 
to develop flavor, and then cooking slowly in water to soften 
the fibers. This is suitable for meats that are neither tender 
nor very tough. Pot roasts, braising, casserole, etc. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 89 

 

Stewing.  Stewing is a form of boiling or cooking for a 
long time, in a small amount of water, at a low temperature. 
The long-continued action of gentle heat will soften the 
coarsest fibers and connective tissue of meats, and thus the 
cheapest cuts of meat may be made palatable. 

Remnants of meat may be seasoned in various ways, 
and thus be made savory and attractive. 

Stews are called by various names, according to the nature 
of the ingredients, such as ragout, haricot, salmi, chowder, 
etc. 

Braising is a form of stewmg in a covered pan in an oven. 

Beef Stew 

2 lb. beef 4 small potatoes 

1 onion 2 ts. salt 

J c. carrot and turnip 1 ssp. pepper 

diced Hot water to cover 

Wipe the meat, remove from bone, and cut in 2-inch pieces. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dredge with flour. Melt some 
of the fat in a fr3dng pan, add meat and the onion shced, stir con- 
stantly that the surface may be quickly seared. Put into a 
kettle ; rinse the frying pan with hot water that none of the goodness 
may be lost. Add remaining bone and fat, cover with boiling water 
and boil 5 m., then simmer until the meat is tender, about 3 
hours. Add carrot and turnip the last hour. Parboil potatoes 
and add to stew 20 m. before it is done. Remove large bones and 
fat, and thicken the stew with 2 tb. flour wet In cold water. Dmnp- 
lings may be added 10 m. before the stew is finished. Serve on a 
warm platter. 

Dumplings 

1 pt. flour 4 ts. baking powder 

} ts. salt About 1 scant c. milk 

Sift the dry ingredients, stir in the milk slowly, mixing with a 
knife till a soft dough is formed. Dip a spoon into the boiling stew, 



90 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

then take up a spoonful of dumpling and drop into the stew, letting 
it rest on the meat and potatoes. Cover closely and steam 10 m. 
without uncovering. Do not let the stew stop boiling after the 
diunplings are added. Serve immediately. 

Veal Stew 

The breast, neck, and knuckle of veal may be used for stew. Cut 
2 lb. of veal in small pieces, remove all fine bone. Cover meat 
with boiling water, skim as it begins to boil. Add 2 small onions, 
2 ts. salt, 1 ssp. pepper. Simmer till tender, about 3 hours. Cut 
4 small potatoes in halves, parboil them 5 m., add to the stew. 
Thicken with 2 tb. flour wet in cold water, add 1 c. cream or milk, 
and more seasoning if necessary. 

Dumplings may be added. 

Irish Stew 

3 lb. neck of mutton 4 potatoes, cut in dice 

4 onions 3 pt. hot water 

Salt and pepper 

Cut meat into pieces about 1 in. square, cover with the boiling 
water, add sliced onions, 2 ts. salt, and simmer gently 3 h. About 15 
m. before the stew is done add potatoes. Season, and serve when 
potatoes are tender. Dumplings may be added. 

Braising, Pot Roasts, etc.  Braising is a form of stewing 
in the oven. Pot roasting is cooking in a kettle on top of 
the stove, using only a small amount of water. The less 
tender cuts of meat may be cooked by either method. The 
meat is browned first to improve the flavor and is then 
cooked slowly in a small amount of water, in a closely covered 
kettle or pan, until tender. 

Braised Beef 

Sprinkle ^ c. each salt pork, carrot, onion, and celery, cut in 
dice, in a covered dripping pan, and place 5 lb. beef round, rump, or 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 91 

shoulder, on them. Add 1 pt. stock or water, ^ bay leaf, piece of 
red pepper or 6 peppercorns, 3 cloves. Dredge meat with flour. 
Let brown in hot oven. Spread a few more of the vegetable cubes on 
top, add 2 ts. salt. Cover closely and cook in oven very slowly 4 or 5 
hours. Put meat on a platter, thicken the gravy, and serve with the 
meat. 1 cup tomato may be added when meat is half done. 

Pot Roast 

Four to six lb. from the rump, round, or shoulder of beef. 
Brown the cut sides in a hot kettle in some fat from the beef, add 
1 c. hot water, season with salt and pepper, and place on the stove, 
where it will keep just below the boiling point. Do not let the 
water cook entirely away, but add only enough to keep the meat 
from burning. Cover closely and cook till very tender, but do not 
let it break. Serve hot or cold. When cold it may be cut in quarter 
inch slices and saut^ed in hot butter. 

Roasting.  Roasting is the process of cooking by the 
radiant heat of an open fire. It is seldom used now as a 
method of cookery, as few kitchens are supplied with the 
necessary apparatus. Roasting has been superseded by 
baking in an oven, although we still retain the name. Tender 
meats are most suitable for roasting. The larger the piece 
of meat, the less the surface in proportion to the weight; 
consequently, evaporation goes on less rapidly in a large 
piece, and it is more likely to remain juicy than a small one. 

The meat should be placed in the oven without adding 
any water. As it begins to brown, baste it with the hot fat 
that has melted out of the roast into the pan. Add enough 
boiling water from time to time to just cover the bottom of 
the pan to assist in basting and to prevent burning. The 
salt and pepper should be added when the surface is well 
seared over by heat. 



92 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Time-Table for Roasting 

Beef Allow 15 minutes to each lb. 

Mutton Allow 20 minutes to each lb. 

Veal Allow 30 minutes to each lb. 

Pork Allow 30 minutes to each lb. 

4 lb. chicken Requires about 2 hours. 

2) to 3 lb. fish . . Requires about 1 hour. 

Roast Beef 

Wipe meat with wet cloth, place in a dripping pan just large 
enough to hold it easily. Roast as in directions given. 

Roast Beef Gravy (Brown Sauce) 

Pour off all the fat from the dripping pan in which beef has 
been roasted, with the exception of about 4 tb. Add 5 tb. flour 
and stir till brown. Add 2 c. hot water. Cook five minutes or 
till thick and smooth. Season with salt and pepper. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

1 c. milk 1 or 2 eggs 

1 c. flour i ts. salt 

Mix salt and flour. Add milk gradually to form a smooth paste. 
Then add eggs beaten very light. Cover bottom of a dripping pan 
with some of the beef fat from the roast. Pour in the mixture 
one half inch deep. When well risen, baste with the fat from the 
roast. Bake 30 minutes. Cut in squares for serving. It may be 
baked in hissing-hot gem pans. 

Roast Veal 

The leg, the thickest part of the leg or round, the loin, and ribs 
are used for roasting. When the leg is used, have it boned at the 
market. Wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, stuff, and tie 
into shape. Place in dripping pan, dredge with flour and place 
strips of salt pork around it. Bake 30 minutes to the pound, bast- 
ing every 15 minutes with the fat in the pan, and boiUng water. 
Serve with brown gravy made as for roast beef. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 93 

Roast Mutton 

Trim off pink skin and superfluous fat. Wipe the meat, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour. Put in a hot oven and 
baste often, using a little hot water. Roast 20 minutes to the 
pound. Make a gravy in the pan, as for roast beef. 

Broiling.  Broiling is derived from the French word 
" brAler," meaning to bum. It is cooking directly over a 
fire, and is the hottest form of cooking. Only the most 
tender portions of meat and fish are suitable for broiling. 
The intense heat sears or coagulates the albumen on the 
outside of the meat and forms a coating which retains the 
juices of the meat. The secret of success in broiling is fre- 
quent turning, for by this means the meat is prevented from 
losing its juices, and also from burning. The free action of 
the air around the article cooking, combined with the intense 
heat, gives a flavor that cannot otherwise be obtained. 

If the fire is not suitable for broiling, the next best process 
is pan broiling or cooking m a hissing hot frying pan, with- 
out fat. Lay the meat on the hot pan, sear quickly on one 
side, turn (without sticking a knife or fork into it, thereby 
causing the juices to escape) and brown the other side. 
Turn often during the cooking. This is not frying if properly 
done, the frying pan, as commonly used, being the abomi- 
nation of the American kitchen. 



Time-Tab LE for Broiling 

Steak, one inch thick 4 to 6 m. 

Steak, one and one half inch thick 6 to 10 m. 

Small, thin fish 5 to 8 m. 

Thick fish 12 to 15 m. 

Chicken 20 m. 



94 DOMES TIC SCIENCE 

The best cuts for broiling are porterhouse, sirloin, cross 
cut of rump steak, and second and third cuts from top of 
round, of tender meat. The flank end of porterhouse may 
be removed before broiling and used in the soup kettle to 
prevent waste in broiling. 

Broiled Steak 

Wipe the meat carefully with a cloth wet in cold water and trim 
off superfluous fat. Rub the wires of the broiler with the fat and 
lay the steak in the broiler, having the thickest part in the center 
and the fat near the handle. Broil over a clear Are, having the 
chimney damper open, turning every ten seconds for the first min- 
ute, or until it is well seared. Hold the broiler farther from the fire 
and turn occasionally until it is cooked. Place on a warm platter, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and bits of butter ; set in the oven a 
moment to melt the butter. Or, omit seasoning and butter, and 
spread with lemon butter, or pour a brown mushroom sauce around 
it. 

To broil with gas.  Heat the broiling oven. Lay the 
meat on the rack and put near the flame at first. Brown 
both sides, then lower the gas flame, or put the pan farther 
away from the flame, thus cooking more slowly until meat 
is done. Turn three or four times during the cooking. Put 
on a warm platter and season as above. 

To pan broil,  Heat a heavy iron pan until a drop of 
water will rebound in balls from it. Lay the steak or chops 
directly on the pan without fat. Turn often. Reduce heat 
and continue cooking until done. Place on a warm platter. 
A little hot water, butter, salt, and pepper may be added to 
the pan and then be poured over the meat, for a gravy ; or 
season as a broiled steak. 

To cook chops,  Lamb and mutton chops may be broiled 
in the same manner as beefsteak. Veal chops must be more 
thoroughly cooked than is possible in broiling, so they must 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 95 

be rolled in some form of fat-proof coating and cooked in 
hot fat. Pork chops also require long cooking, but they 
contain enough fat in themselves to finish the cooking if 
they are placed directly on hot pan. 

Pork Chops 

Wipe chops, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and place in a hot 
frying pan ; reduce heat, cover, cook slowly until tender and well- 
browned on both sides, about twenty minutes. 

Veal Chops 

Trim and wipe the chops or slices from the thick part of the leg. 
Season with salt and pepper, roll in bread crumbs, then in egg 
beaten with 1 tb. water, and again in crumbs. Sauter in hot salt 
pork fat or lard till well browned on both sides. Arrange in a circle 
about the dish, and fill the center with mashed potatoes, peas, 
tomato sauce, or boiled and seasoned string beans. The chops may 
also be rolled in flour and cooked as above. 

Ham 

Wipe ham, remove the rind. Place ham in a hot frying pan and 
cook ten minutes or till brown on both sides. Put on a platter 
and keep warm. Make a gravy by adding 2 tb. flour to the fat 
in the pan and gradually stirring in 1 c. milk. Or fry eggs in the 
fat left in the pan and serve with the ham. 

If cooked too long, ham will become hard and dry. 

Bacon 

Remove rind from thin slices of bacon. Put bacon in a fine 
wire broiler, place over a dripping pan and bake in a hot oven until 
bacon is crisp and brown, turning once. The fat which has dripped 
into the jRin may be used for frying. 



96 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lemon Butter 

2 tb. butter i tb. lemon juice 

i ts. salt i tb. minced parsley 

} ssp. pepper 
Mix well and spread on hot broiled steak, chops, or fish, after 
placing them on the platter. 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 

4 tb. butter 1 pt. hot stock 

5 tb. flour Salt and pepper 

I can mushrooms 

Brown the butter, add flour and brown, but be careful not to 
bum. Let cool a little and add the stock gradually. Cook till 
smooth. Season, add mushrooms, and cook five minutes. 

1 tb. Worcestershire sauce or catsup may be added. 

Baked Breaded Veal and Tomato Sauce 

One cup bread crumbs, 3 tb. chopped salt pork, salt, and pepper. 
Wipe veal chops or steak and spread with the dressing, after putting 
in the pan. Bake 30 m. and serve with a sauce. Lamb chops 
may be prepared in the same way. If the crumbs are too brown 
before sufficiently baked, baste with a Uttle hot water. Put 
tomato sauce in the center of the platter and arrange the chops 
around the edge. 

Hamburg Stejak 

Chop the round of beef fine and season with salt and pepper, 
and if desired, a little onion. Make into cakes. Put in a greased 
broiler and broil over clear coals. Spread with butter. 

Veal Loaf 

2 lb. lean veal chopped with J lb. salt pork. Add 4 butter 
crackers, rolled, 2 beaten eggs, 2 ts. salt, 1 ssp. pepper, 1 ssp. 
nutmeg. Pack into a small bread pan and bake slowly 2 hr. It 
may be served hot with a tomato sauce, or be served cold. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 97 

Dried Beef and Cream 

i lb. dried beef, thinly sliced 1 c. milk 

2 tb. butter 2 tb. flour 

Remove the skin and separate meat in pieces. Cover with hot 
water and let stand 10 m. Drain and fry in the hot butter. Add 
the milk and when boiling stir in the flour wet in a little cold milk 
or water. Cook till smooth. 

Warmed-over Meats.  To prepare meats for warming 
over, remove all bone, skin, gristle, and excess of fat from 
meat. The bone, skin, and gristle may be put in the soup 
kettle in making stock, and the fat may be tried out for drip- 
pings. Cook quickly all tender meat, for if kept at boiling 
point for any length of time, the protein will become tough. 
Make the tough portions of meat tender by letting them 
sinamer in water. Rice, macaroni, bread crumbs, tomatoes, 
onions, etc., may be used in combination with different 
meats, miaking many palatable dishes. Meat pies may be 
made, using baking powder biscuit dough or pastry for an 
upper crust. 

Hash 

Chop cooked meat, using a small amount of fat. Add an equal 
amoimt of chopped cold boiled potatoes. Season with salt and 
pepper and a little chopped onion. Put 2 or 3 tb. hot water in an 
iron frjdng pan and 1 tb. drippings. Put in the mixture, cover the 
pan and let simmer slowly till a brown crust is formed ; about 20 
minutes. Do not stir. Fold over, turn out on a warm platter, 
and garnish with parsley. 

Cottage Pie 

Chop cold meat fine. To every cupful add 1 ssp. salt, J ssp. 
pepper, a pinch of siramier savory or thyme, } c. gravy or stock. 
Put into a baking dish and cover with a crust of mashed potatoes. 



98 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Brush with milk and bake in the oven till a golden brown, about 
twenty minutes. Omit the herb and add 1 ts. finely chopped onion, 
if liked. 

Meat R6chauff6 

Make a wall of mashed potatoes around a baking dish and fill 
the center with cooked meat cut in cubes. Pour over the meat 
a gravy, tomato, or white sauce. Bake till a delicate brown. Gar- 
nish with parsley. 

Minced Mutton 

Chop meat. Put into a frying pan, season with salt, pepper and 
celery salt. Dredge well with flour, stir, and add enough stock, or 
hot water, to make a gravy. Cook about 5 minutes. Pour over 
slices of toast. 

Meat Souffl6 

Make 1 c. white sauce, season with a little onion and parsley, 
add 1 c. finely chopped meat (veal or chicken preferred). Add 
yolks of two eggs well beaten. Cook 1 m. When cool fold in the 
beaten whites. Bake in a buttered baking dish about 20 m. 
in slow oven. Serve immediately. If for lunch, serve with mush- 
room sauce. 

White Mushroom Sauce 

Melt 2 tb. butter, add 2 tb. flour. When bubbling, add slowly 
f c. milk and } c. mushroom liquor. Season with salt and pepper. 
Add i can of mushrooms, cut fine. When heated, serve. 

Scalloped Chicken 

Put a layer of chicken cut into small pieces into a baking dish, 
then a layer of white sauce; repeat, having white sauce for top 
layer. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake till brown. 

Forcemeat Balls 
See p. 67. 



COMPOSITION AND PREPARATION OF MEATS 99 

Croquettes 
See p. 148. 

Pressed Chicken 

Chop cold boiled chicken fine, keeping the hght and dark meats 
separate. Season with salt, celery salt, cayenne. Boil down the 
liquor in which the chicken was cooked and add to boiling hquid 
i box of gelatine which has been soaked in } c. cold water, and 
moisten the meat with it. Put a layer of dark meat in a square 
mold, then strips of tongue or ham, a layer of white meat, whole 
hard-boiled eggs, white meat, tongue, and dark meat as a last 
layer. Put a heavy weight on top and let stand for several hours. 
Remove from mold and cut in shces. 



CHAPTER X 



POULTRY AND FISH 



COMPOSITION OF POULTRY (ATWATER) 



Chicken, broiler 
Fowls . . . 
Goose . . . 
Turkey . . . 



RxruBB 


Watbr 


Pbotbin 


Fat 


Perct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Perct. 


41.6 


43.7 


12.8 


1.4 


25.9 


47.1 


13.7 


12.3 


17.6 


38.5 


13.4 


29.8 


22.5 


42.4 


16.1 


18.4 



Ash 



Per ct. 

.7 
.7 
.7 
.8 



To select Poultry.  Soft yellow feet, smooth skin, soft 
cartilage at end of breastbone, pinfeathers, tender skin 
under the wing which is easily broken by bending back the 
wing,  indicate tender poultry. 

Long hairs, long thin necks, flesh of purplish tinge, hard 
feet with sharp scales,  indicate tough poultry. 

Cost of Chicken 

(Students compile following facts from the weight of chicken 
used in lesson :) 

Cost of chicken as purchased 

Weight of chicken as 'purchased 

Cost per pound as purchased 

Weight after dressing 

Weight of bones 

(obtained after chicken has been cooked) 
Weight of edible meat 

(difference between dressed meat and weight of bones) 

Cost per pound of edible meat 

100 



POULTRY AND FISH 101 

To prepare Poultry for Cooking.  Remove pinfeathers, 
singe to remove hairs, over a tb. alcohol burning in a saucer 
or over a blaze. Cut oflF head ; cut the skin down the back 
of the neck, remove windpipe and crop. Cut neck off close 
to the body, leaving the skin long that it may be folded over 
on the back of the chicken in cooking. Cut through the 
skin below the leg joint without cutting the tendons. Place 
leg at end of board and break the joint ; hold the fowl firmly 
in left hand and pull oflF the foot with tendons. In old birds, 
the tendons must be taken out one at a time, using a steel 
skewer. Make an incision below the breastbone and with 
the hand remove the entrails, gizzard, heart, and liver. The 
last three are called giblets. Do not break the gall bladder, 
which lies on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. 
Remove carefully the lungs and kidneys, which lie in the 
hollow near the backbone. Remove the oil bag and wash 
the fowl by letting cold water nm through it, but do not let 
it soak in cold water. Clean the giblets carefully. 

To cut up a Chicken.  Singe, and remove the pinfeathers. 
Cut off the legs and wings at the joints. Cut from near the 
vent, through the membrane lying between the end of the 
breastbone and the tail, down to the backbone, on either 
side. Then remove the entrails. Break off the backbone 
just below the ribs. Cut through the cartilage dividing the 
ribs, and separate the collar bone from the breast. 

Methods of Cooking Chickens 

Young chickens. 

(1) Broiled, (2) fried, (3) roasted. 
Old chickens. 

(1) Roasted, (2) boiled, (3) fricassee, (4) stew, (6) cas- 
serole. 



102 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Roast Chicken 

Clean and stuff a chicken. Sew up the incisions. Rub all over 
with salt. Tie it into a compact shape, fastening the legs and wings 
close to the body ; dredge with flour. Lay strips of salt pork over 
chicken. Place in a hot oven, and when the flour browns baste 
with boUing water every 10 m., using more water, if necessary, 
to prevent burning. Turn the chicken that it may brown evenly. 
When the breast meat is tender, the chicken is sufficiently 
cooked. Cook the giblets in water until tender. 

Stuffing 

Two c. crumbs, 2 tb. butter, or small piece salt pork chopped, 
salt, pepper, marjoram, summer savory, or thyme to taste, J c. boil- 
ing water. Melt the butter in the water and pour over the crumbs 
to which seasoning has been added. 

Chicken Gravy 

Pour off all but about 4 tb. of fat from the pan in which chicken 
has been roasted. Add 5 tb. flour ; when brown, add 2 c. of the 
water in which giblets have been boiled. Cook 5 minutes, season 
with salt and pepper, and if liked, add the giblets finely chopped. 

Stewed Chicken 

Dress, clean, and cut up a chicken. Put into a kettle with a few 
slices of salt pork and barely cover with boiling water. Boil 5 m., 
then simmer until tender. When about half done add 1 ts. salt. 
Cook a young chicken about 1^ h., an old one 2 to 2 J h. When 
done wet 4 tb. flour in cold water to form a smooth paste and stir 
into the boiling mixture. Season. Add 1 c. cream or milk and 
2 tb. butter. When hot serve. Dumplings may be added. 

Creamed Chicken 

IJ c. cold chicken, diced 1 c. white sauce 

i ts. celery salt } c. mushrooms, sliced 

Heat the chicken and mushrooms in the sauce over hot water. 
Serve on toast, in toast boxes, or patty shells. 



POULTRY AND FISH 



103 



FISH 



Composition op Various Fish (Atwater.) 



Black Bass . . . 
Bluefish . . . . 
Fresh Cod . . . . 
Salt Cod  boneless 
Mackerel . . . . 

Salmon 

Trout 

Whitefish . . . . 
Lobster . . . . 



Refuse 


Pboteid 


Fat 


Mineral 
Matteb 


54.8 


9.3 


.8 


.5 


55.7 


8.3 


.5 


.5 


52.5 


8 


.2 


.6 


    


22.2 


.3 


23.1 


44.6 


10 


4.3 


.7 


39.2 


12.4 


8.1 


.9 


48.1 


9.8 


1.1 


.6 


53.5 


10.3 


3. 


.7 


61.7 


5.9 


.7 


.8 



Water 



34.6 



40.4 
32.5 
30.7 



Fish should be fresh and be used in season. When fresh, 
the fish is firm, the eyes bright. White-blooded fish have 
fat secreted in the liver. Examples: whitefish, cod, had- 
dock, perch, etc. Red-blooded fish have fat distributed 
throughout the flesh. Examples: salmon, mackerel, blue- 
fish, herring. Broiling, boiling, baking, are the most whole- 
some methods of cooking fish. 



Broiled Fish 

Bone the fish, removing the head and tail. Wipe and dry, and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place in greased broiler and broil 
the flesh side first; then turn and broil the skin side till brown 
and crisp. Loosen the fish from both sides of the broiler and slip 
on to a hot platter, flesh side up. Season with salt and pepper and 
butter, or spread with lemon butter. Garnish with parsley and 
lemon. 

Planked Fish 

Bone a fish. Lay it on a hot hardwood plank, flesh side up. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and bits of butter. Bake on upper 



104 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

shelf in oven or under a gas broiler, about 30 m. or till brown. Ten 
minutes before it is done put a border of mashed potatoes around 
the fish, using a pastry bag and tube. 

Put plank on a platter and garnish with parsley, shredded lettuce, 
radishes, lemon fans, etc. 

Baked Fish 

Clean, wash, and dry the fish. Do not remove the head or tail. 
Rub all over with salt, stuff, and sew up. Put two strips of cotton 
cloth in pan (if you have not a fish sheet), to help remove the fish 
when baked. Lay the fish in the pan and skewer into the shape of 
a letter S. Cut gashes on top and lay strips of salt pork in them 
and around the pan. Sprinkle the fiish with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Put in a hot oven. When the flour begins 
to brown, baste with the fat in the pan and boiling water. The 
fish is done when the flesh separates easily from the bone. Bake 
about 1 hour. 

Lift carefully on a hot platter, draw out skewers or strings, and 
serve with drawn butter or egg sauce. 

Boiled Fish 

Add the juice of i lemon or J c. vinegar to the water in which the 
fish is to be boiled. Put fish on a plate and tie all in a piece of 
cheesecloth. Put fish in boiling water and let simmer until the 
flesh separates easily from the bones. Add 1 tb. salt to water when 
fish is nearly cooked. Remove from plate and put on a folded 
napkin on a platter. Serve a sauce separately. Or, omit napkin 
and pour sauce over and around the fiish. 

Drawn Butter 

1 pt. hot water or stock 4 tb. flour 

6 tb. butter J ts. salt 

J ssp. pepper 

Put 4 tb. butter in the pan; when bubbling, but not brown, 
add the flour. Add hot water a little at a time. When thick and 



POULTRY AND FISH 105 

perfectly smooth add seasoning and remainder of the butter. Stir 
till the latter is absorbed. Chopped hard-boiled eggs may be 
added. * 

Fried Fish 

Clean fish and wipe as dry as possible. Roll in seasoned crumbs, 
dip in egg slightly beaten with 1 tb. water, and roll again in crumbs ; 
or if preferred, dip in com meal. Cook in a frying pan, in hot fat, 
till brown on both sides. 

Large fish should be boned and cut in pieces for serving. To fry 
in deep fat see page 145. 

Turbot 

Steam a whitefiish till tender. Remove bones and skin, and flake 
the fiish. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Make a white sauce with 
1 pt. milk, 6 tb. flour and 4 tb. butter. Season with salt and pepper. 
When cool add 1 or 2 beaten eggs, 1 tb. each minced onion and par- 
sley. Put layers of fish and sauce in a baking dish. Sprinkle top 
with buttered crumbs and bake till brown. 

Creamed Codfish 

Pick salt codfish in small pieces, cover with cold water, heat, 
and let simmer till tender. Drain and cover with milk. When 
boiling thicken with flour and butter rubbed together in the pro- 
portion of 2 tb. of each to every cup of milk. Just before serving 
add 1 beaten yolk of egg. Cook 1 m. 

Fish Balls 

1 c. raw salt fish 1 egg well beaten 

1 pt. potatoes i ssp. pepper 

1 ts. butter More salt if needed 

Shred the fiish. Pare and quarter potatoes. Put fish and pota- 
toes in stewpan and cover with boiling water. Boil 25 m. or 
till potatoes are soft. Do not boil too long or they will be soggy. 



106 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Drain well. Mash and beat till very light. Add butter and 
pepper, and when slightly cool, the beaten egg. Shape in a tb. and 
drop in a kettle of smoking hot fat. Fry only a few at a time, or 
they will cool the fat. Drain on brown paper. Or, shape into 
flat cakes, roll in flour, and sauter in hot fat. 

Salmon in Mold 

1 can salmon 4 tb. melted butter 

3 eggs, beaten light i c. fine bread crumbs 

Salt, cayenne, parsley 

Remove oil, bones and skin from fish. Mince fish fine. Rub 
in the butter till smooth. Add crumbs to beaten egg. Season the 
fish. Add eggs and crumbs. Put into a buttered mold, cover the 
mold, and steam 1 h. Serve with sauce. 

Sauce for Salmon 

Make a sauce with 1 c. boiling milk, 1 tb. flour, and 2 tb. butter. 
Add liquor from the salmon. Season with salt, cayenne, 1 ts. 
tomato catsup. Just before taking from fire add 1 beaten egg. 

Sardines on Toast 

Drain sardines. Cook in a chafing-dish till heated, turning often. 
Place on small oblong pieces of toast and serve with lemon butter. 
Or, lay sardines on toast and heat in a moderate oven. 

Lobster Farci 

1 pt. can lobster 4 tb. butter 

1 pt. milk 6 tb. flour 

Salt and cayenne 

Melt the butter, add flour, and when bubbling add milk gradu- 
ally. When thick and smooth add lobster, which has been picked 
fine. Season. Put in buttered shells. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and bake till brown. 



POULTRY AND FISH 107 

Escalloped Oysters 

1 pt. oysters IJ c. crumbs 

4 tb. oyster liquor i c. butter melted 

6 tb. milk or cream Salt and pepper 

Stir the melted butter into the crumbs. Put a thin layer in 
bottom of a buttered baking dish, cover with oysters, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, add part of the milk and oyster hquor. Re- 
peat, and cover the top with crumbs. Bake 40 m. in hot oven. 
Two layers of oysters are sufficient ; if more be used, the center layer 
will be imderdone. 

Creamed Oysters 

Wash, by pouring over them } c. water, and look over 1 c. oysters. 
Parboil them in the oyster liquor and the water in which they 
were washed, until the edges curl and the oysters are plump. Drain. 
Make a white sauce with 

3 tb. butter J c. oyster liquor 

3 tb. flour i ts. salt 

i c. milk I ssp. pepper 

Add the parboiled oysters and cook till hot. Serve on toast, 
in toast boxes, or patty shells. 

Toast Boxes 

Cut stale bread into 2 inch cubes, trim the crust, take out the 
center, leaving the bread in the form of a box. Brush with melted 
butter and bake in a quick oven until a light brown. 

Fill with any creamed mixture. 



CHAPTER XI 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF MILK (SNYDER) 



Water 


Fat 


Cabbin 


Albxtmbn 


Lactosb 


Ash 


87.0 % 


3.5% 


3.25 % 


0.5% 


5.0% 


0.75% 



Milk is the food of the young animal, and hence contains all 
the nutrients necessary for the support of the body. Owing 
to the large per cent of water in its composition, milk is a 
bulky food, and being deficient in starch, is not a satisfactory 
food for the healthy adult. 

Milk is a white, opaque liquid. It consists of a bluish 
white liquid, called serum, in which float globules of fat, 
which give the milk the appearance of a white liquid. These 
fat globules are suspended through the milk in the form of 
an emulsion, fresh milk being the most perfect example of 
an emulsion. Upon standing, however, the emulsion is 
broken and the fat rises to the surface in the form of cream. 

Butter is made by separating the fat from cream by 
churning, thus completely breaking down the emulsion of 
fat. Skimmed milk contains practically all the ingredients 
of whole milk with the exception of the fat, and forms a 
cheap supply of protein. The protein of the milk is largely 
in the form of casein, which contains both sulphur and 
phosphorus. 

108 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 109 

Casein coagulates when an acid is added to it, or when 
an acid is formed in the milk during the process of lactic 
fermentation. It forms a clot in the stomach by the action 
of the enzyme rennin, which is secreted by the stomach, and 
it then digests as a solid food. In cheese making and in the 
making of junket, a commercial form of rennin obtained 
from the second stomach of the calf is added to the milk, 
thus causing it to clot. The addition of limewater, or some 
cereal water, as barley water, tends to make the casein form 
a lighter and more digestible clot, hence they are often 
added to baby foods. 

The albumen of milk, or lact-albumen, coagulates with 
heat and forms the scum of boiled milk. 

Lactose, or milk sugar, is less soluble than cane sugar and 
does not taste as sweet. It is the sugar which is used in 
baby foods. It is obtained from the whey left from cheese 
making after the casein and fat have been removed. 

The souring of milk is caused by the action of lactic bacilli 
present in the milk. The bacilli feed upon the lactose 
changing it to lactic acid, which acid reacts upon the casein, 
causing it to coagulate, or form a curd. In the large in- 
testine of the human body are found great numbers of bac- 
teria which feed upon the food residue present there, forming 
injurious compounds which are absorbed by the blood, with 
harmful results. The growth of some of these putrefactive 
bacteria is thought to be checked by the presence of lactic 
acid and by the action of lactic bacilli ; hence, sour milk is 
considered a healthful, as well as a nutritious food. 

The mineral matter in milk consists largely of the phos- 
phates and chlorides of soda, lime, and potash. 

Milk contains large numbers of bacteria. Few bacteria 
are normally present in fresh milk, but they enter the milk 
on account of the unsanitary conditions attendant upon 



110 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

milking and the subsequent care of milk. They reproduce 
very rapidly if the milk is not cooled. Typhoid fever, chil- 
dren's summer diseases of the intestines, tuberculosis, and 
other diseases are often traced to the milk supply; con- 
sequently, the most cleanly conditions should be insisted 
up)on by the health authorities, in the stable, the care of 
the cow, cleanliness of the milkers and of all utensils which 
hold the milk. Milk should be sold only in bottles which 
are filled and sealed at the dairy, the seal to be broken by 
the consumer only. 

Experiment 45.  Put a drop of cream on filter paper ; when 
dry, note the characteristic grease spot. This is a test for fat. 

Experiment 46.  Fill a tall cylinder with milk, and determine 
the specific gravity with a lactometer. 

Experiment 47.  Examine a drop of milk under microscope. 
Explain appearance and make a drawing of the fat globules seen. 

Experiment 48.  To i c. milk warmed to 100** F. add i of a 
rennet tablet dissolved in J ts. water. Mix quickly. Let stand in 
a warm place until the milk clots. Break the clot lightly and put 
into a filter paper. Test the curd or casein for protein. (See pro- 
tein test, page 69.) 

Experiment 49.  Test the filtrate from above experiment 
with Fehling solution for sugar. 

BUTTER 

Butter is made by separating the fat globules of cream by 
churning, after the cream has soured from the action of bac- 
teria. 

Composition of Butter (J. C. Olsen) 



Fat 


Water 


Salt 


SUGAB 


84% 


12.8 % 


2% 


0.4% 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 111 

Butter fat is one of the most palatable, easily digested, 
and easily assimilated forms of fat. Its flavor is due to 
bacterial action. In the modem creamery all conditions are 
most sanitary ; bacteria which give a disagreeable odor and 
taste to butter are not present. Butter is artificially colored, 
but the coloring is harmless. 

Renovated butter is butter which has become rancid and 
is then subjected to a process of renovation, by which the 
disagreeable odors and flavors are removed. It is not an 
unwholesome product, but should not be sold at butter 
prices. Most states require that it be plainly marked 
"renovated" or "process" butter. 

Oleomargarine or Butterine.  The manufacture of these 
butter substitutes is carried on under government inspection, 
and the products are clean and wholesome, lacking, however, 
the delicate flavor of butter. They are manufactured from 
a high grade of lard, cottonseed oil, and milk, and a small 
amount of butter is generally added for flavor. There is no 
objection to their use in cookery, and when they are sold 
under their true names and at a reasonable price, they are 
good substitutes for butter in cooking. 

Experiment 50.  Foam test to distinguish bvUer from oleo- 
m>argarine. Melt in separate dishes butter, oleomargarine, and 
renovated butter. The butter boils quietly and produces consider- 
able foam, while the other two sputter and crackle violently, pro- 
ducing but little foam. 

Experiment 51.  Beat one pint of ripened cream with an egg- 
beater or whip chum until the butter fat separates. Collect these 
lumps and form into a mass. Wash in cofd water to remove any 
milk ; drain off the water. Add salt to taste. Weigh the butter 
and estimate the cost. How much cream would be required to 
make one pound of butter? What is the composition of butter- 
milk? 



112 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



CHEESE 
Average Composition of Cheese (Atwateb) 



Watbb 


Protkin 


Fat 


.CaBBOU ITDBATES 


Ash 


34.2% 


25.2 % 


33.7 % 


2.4% 


3.8% 



Cheese is made from whole milk, from milk plus cream, 
from cream, and from skim milk. The casein is precipitated 
by the action of rennet, forming a curd to which most of 
the fat attaches itself. The curd is then broken up and the 
whole heated to about 108** F. The whey is drained off, 
carrying with it most of the lactose and albumen. The 
curd is salted and pressed. It is then kept for several weeks 
or longer to develop flavor, or ripen by the action of bacteria. 
The texture of the cheese also changes in ripening. 

As a food, cheese is used in small amounts as a fl\,vor, 
and in large amounts as a highly nutritive protein food. 
The lower-priced cheeses are an important source of protein 
and fat in the diet and make good meat substitutes. It has 
been shown that cheese is not difficult of digestion for the 
majority of persons. 

Experiment 52.  (a) Heat a small piece of cheese in a pan 
directly over the fire until it melts. Let boil and note results. 

(6) Melt a similar piece of cheese in a pan over hot water, 
removing from water "as soon as it melts. 

Compare the texture of results of (a) and (6). Should cheese 
be cooked at a high or low temperature ? What food principle must 
be considered in cooking cheese? 

The Care of Cheese.  Wrap the cheese in a slightly 
dampened cloth or in paraffin paper and then in a heavier 
paper. Cheese molds more readily when it is put in a covered 



MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS 113 

dish with the air excluded. Cheese contains a large per 
cent of protein, so should not be raised to a high tempera- 
ture in cooking. Many palatable dishes can be prepared 
from cheese but since it is deficient in starch, some starchy 
food is usually added to it, as macaroni, rice, bread, etc. 

Cottage Cheese 

Set a dish of thick sour milk in a pan of lukewarm water (100^). 
When the curd is well set, strain off the whey through a cheese 
cloth. Work the curd with a fork or potato masher until fine- 
grained. Season with salt and moisten with cream. Shape into 
small cakes suitable for serving. Chopped parsley, pimentos, or 
oUves may be added to vary the flavor. 

Welsh Rarebit No. z 

i lb. rich cream cheese 1 egg 

i c. milk or cream 4 slices of toast or wafers 

i ts. mustard Speck of cayenne 

Cut the cheese in small pieces and melt over hot water, in chafing 
dish or double boiler. Add milk and stir rapidly. Add the season- 
ing to the beaten egg, stir in slowly and cook till it thickens a little, 
but do not let it curdle. Pour over the toast or wafers. 

Welsh Rarebit No. 2 

Melt cream cheese in double boiler or chafing dish. Add milk 
or cream slowly to thin. Season with cayenne and mustard and 
stir in a beaten egg. When smooth pour over toast or wafers. 
Do not overcook the cheese. 

American Rarebit 

Soak 1 c. grated bread crumbs in 1 c. milk fifteen minutes. Melt 
2 tb. butter in chafing-dish, add 1 c. grated or broken cheese. 
When cheese is melted, add the bread and milk, 1 egg well beaten, 
salt and cayenne to taste. Stir rapidly, and when smooth serve 
on toast or crackers. 



114 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cheese Fondue 

1 c. scalded milk 1 tb. butter 

1 c. soft stale bread crumbs i ts. salt 

i lb. mild cheese cut fine i ts. mustard 

or grated Few grains cayenne 

Add above ingredients to hot milk. When well mixed, remove 
from fire and add 2 beaten yolks of eggs. Fold in 2 beaten whites. 
Put into a buttered earthen baking dish, and bake twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven. Serve immediately, as it will fall if it stands. 



CHAPTER XII 

WATER AND BEVERAGES 

Water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen, its chemical 
formula being H2O. Water is very widely distributed in 
nature ; it covers three-fourths of the earth's surface, and is 
present in the soil and rocks and in all animal and vegetable 
organisms. The human body is composed of about 70 per 
cent water. The body obtains its water supply from foods 
and beverages, and a small amount of water is formed 
chemically in the body by the oxidation of the hydrogen of 
foods. 

Water is a very important solvent, dissolving many sub- 
stances. It also holds many organic substances in suspen- 
sion. Water which is chemically pure contains no foreign 
substance of any kind. Distilled water or condensed steam 
is the only chemically pure water. Water that is hygieni- 
cally pure contains no substance which is injurious to the 
health of those drinking it. 

Harmful or disease-producing bacteria and decajdng ani- 
mal and vegetable matter are the chief sources of water con- 
tamination, although the presence of many chemicals makes 
it unfit for drinking. The disease-producing bacteria most 
commonly found in drinking water are the typhoid bacilli. 
Many cases of typhoid fever may be traced to the water 
supply or to milk which has been diluted with impure water. 
The conmion house fly has been found to be a carrier of the 
typhoid bacillus and should never be allowed to settle on 

food or on utensils which hold it. 

115 



116 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Soi)rces of Water.  1. Rainwater. 2. Springs. 3. Rivers and 
lakes. 4. Surface wells. 5. Deep or artesian wells. 

Rain water takes up the dust and gases from the air, and 
organic matter from the roofs over which it is collected. 
The long storing in a cistern gives bacteria opportimity to 
grow in large numbers, causing the water to be unsafe for 
drinking purposes. 

Springs are a source of pure water supply if they are not 
contaminated by passing through soil which is polluted. 

Rivers and lakes are a common source of water supply, 
but they may be made very unfit for drinking if the surface 
water and sewage from towns and cities is allowed to drain 
into them. 

Surface wells are a very unsafe source of drinking water 
supply, and the water should never be used when there are 
cesspools, drains, barnyards, or any other sources of contam- 
ination within a radius of 200 feet of them. 

Deep artesian wells furnish pure water ias a rule, unless the 
piping is not tightly jointed, when impure water from a 
subsoil stream near the surface may enter the pipes. 

Methods of Purification of Water.  1. Boiling. 2. Filtration. 
3. Distillation. 

Boiling is a certain method of destroying bacteria. If 
there is the shghtest doubt as to the purity of the water, it 
should be boiled for twenty minutes and then be quickly 
cooled. It should be put into perfectly clean bottles, tightly 
stopped, and be placed on or near the ice. 

Filtration,  The modern filter contains a hollow tube of 
unglazed porcelain, which is porous and through which the 
water percolates slowly. All mechanical impurities of the 
water are deposited on the surface of the tube. These im- 
purities usually carry the bacteria, which are thus removed. 



WATER AND BEVERAGES 117 

The tubes should be washed often, aiKi occasionally be re- 
moved from the filter to be baked or steamed. 

Charcoal is used in many filters, as it removes all color, 
odor, and taste from the water by holding back the organic 
matter ; but the charcoal may soon become a source of con- 
tamination, as bacteria will grow rapidly in the organic 
matter present. 

Many cities purify the water supply by precipitating the 
organic matter present by the addition of iron sulphate, 
alum, or calcium hydrate. The bacteria are entangled in the 
precipitate, which is then filtered out by mechanical filtra- 
tion through sand and ^avel. 

Distillation is the process of condensing steam. The 
water thus obtained is the only chemically pure water. 

Ice.  Freezing has little effect upon bacteria except to 
lessen temporarily their vitality. When the ice melts, the 
bacteria may again become active. Ice made by artificial 
means from distilled water is the only pure ice. For cooling 
drinking water, the water should be placed on the ice and 
the ice should not be put into the water. 

Hard and Soft Water.  Soft water is water in which no 
mineral matter is dissolved. Hard water is water in which 
such minerals as lime, magnesium, and iron are dissolved. 
Boiling precipitates some of the mineral matter, thus tend- 
ing to soften the water. This mineral deposit may be seen 
on the inside of a teakettle. Hard water that is to be used 
for cleansing purposes may be softened by the addition of 
washing soda, borax, ammonia, potash, or soda lye. 

BEVERAGES 

Pure water ranks as the first and most important of 
beverages. An adult should drink about three pints of 
water a day. Tea and coffee are stimulants, furnishing 



118 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

no real nutriment to the body, as they give neither heat 
nor energy, nor do they build tissue. If taken in excess, 
tea and coffee tend to produce nervousness, insomnia, pal- 
pitation of the heart, etc. 

The stimulating property of coffee and tea is due to 
caffeine. They also contain tannin, an astringent, which is 
drawn out by boiling and which is injurious to the digestive 
organs. Tea and coffee should not be given to children. 
Cocoa and chocolate contain protein, fat, and starch, hence 
have a food value in addition to the milk added in 
making a beverage. They form a valuable hot beverage 
for children. Cocoa also contain^ theobromine, which is of 
like nature to caffeine, but is a milder and less harmful 
stimulant. 

 

Experiment 53.  (a) Pour 1 c. cold water on i ts. tea. Let 
stand one-half hour. Strain and heat. 

(6) Pour 1 c. boiling water on J ts. tea. Let stand three minutes 
in warm place. 

(c) Pour 1 c. boiling water on J ts. tea and boil five minutes. 

(d) Put i ts. tea in fine strainer (tea ball) and pour 1 c. boiling 
water through it. 

Compare results as to strength, flavor, color. Reserve part of 
each for the next test. 

Experiment 54.  Fill four test tubes i full of each of the above 
solutions, add slowly to each a saturated solution of cupric 
acetate until the liquid is a light green. Boil. Allow the precipi- 
tates to settle and compare amounts. This will indicate the relative 
amoimts of tannin present. Which of the above methods should 
be used in making tea ? Which avoided ? 

Experiment 55.  (a) Pour i c. boiling water through 1 tb. 
fine coffee placed in a fine strainer, or in cheesecloth. 

(6) Boil 1 tb. coffee and i c. water ten minutes. 

Compare results as to flavor and strength. Test results of (a) and 
(6) as in Experiment 54 for tannin. 



WATER AND BEVERAGES 119 

Experiment 56.  (a) Pour J c. boiling water on J ts. tea. 

(6) Pour J c. hot water on i ts. tea. 

Let both stand five minutes. Compare strength, color, flavor. 
Which is the best solvent for tea, hot or boiling water ? Are there 
tea leaves floating on the surface when the hot water is used ? When 
boiling water is used? 

Note.  Students bring cost price of several leading brands of 
tea, coffee, chocolate, and cocoa. 

Cost of Tea.  Weigh J lb. tea. Measure the number of 
teaspoonfuls it contains. Estimate the number of cups of 
tea that may be prepared from 1 lb. Estimate cost per cup 
of teas of different prices. 

Cost of Coffee.  Weigh out J lb. coffee. Measure the 
number of tablesp>oonfuls in it. Estimate the number of 
cups of coffee that may be prepared from 1 lb. Estimate 
cost per cup of different priced coffees. 

Coffee.  The coffee tree is native to Abyssinia, but is 
now grown in all tropical countries. The coffee bean is the 
seed of the tree and is found in the cherrylike fruit. When 
the fruit begins to shrivel on the trees, it is shaken to the 
ground, is then dried, and the seeds separated by wooden 
rollers. The green coffee berry has but little flavor, but 
when roasted a characteristic flavor and odor are developed. 

Care of Coffeepot,  Never put the coffee or tea pot in 
the water in which other dishes have been washed. Have 
a small mop kept especially for the coffeepot. After using, 
empty the pot, and with clear hot water thoroughly wash 
the pot and spout, with the aid of the mop. Twice a week 
fill the pot with cold water, add 1 tb. washing soda, and boil 
about ten minutes. Rinse well. Never let the brown sedi- 
ment accumulate in a coffeepot, or the flavor of the finest 
coffee will be ruined. 



120 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Boiled Coffee 

J c. coffee J egg 

J c. cold water 3J c. boiling water 

Scald a granite ware coffeepot. Wash egg, break, and beat 
slightly. Add the egg and shell and half the cold water to the coffee. 
Put into the coffeepot, pour on the boiling water. Place on front 
of range and boil slowly three to five minutes. Pour some of the cof- 
fee into a cup to free the spout from grounds, return to the coffee- 
pot, and repeat. Add remaining cold water, which being heavier 
than hot water sinks to the bottom carrying the groimds with it, 
and completes the process of clearing. Place on the back of the 
range, where it will not boil, for ten minutes. Three eggshells 
may be used in place of 1 egg. For after-dinner coffee use twice the 
amount of coffee given in this recipe. 

Filtered Coffee 

Use a French coffeepot. Scald it with hot water. Put 2 round- 
ing tb. powdered coffee in the bag and pour over it 1 pt. freshly 
boiling water. Keep the pot hot imtil the water has filtered through ; 
pour it off and turn back through the filter again. Less tannin 
is extracted by this method than by boiling. 

Tea.  Black tea comes from China, India, and Ceylon. 
Some of the familiar brands are Oolong, English Breakfast, 
Formosa, and Orange Pekoe. Black tea is made from the 
leaves which have been allowed to ferment by exposure to 
the air before curing. 

The best green tea comes from Japan. Some of the familiar 
brands are Gunpowder, Hyson, and Japan. Green tea is 
made from young leaves of the tea plant, dried quickly by 
artificial heat. Both black and green tea may be made 
from the same plant, according to the method of curing. 

Tea leaves are rich in protein, but when taken as an in- 
fusion act as a stimulant rather than a nutrient. The taimic 



WATER AND BEVERAGES 121 

acid developed from the tannin by infusion injures the coat- 
ing of the stomach. Tea should never be boiled nor steeped 
for any length of time, as the tannic acid will be extracted 
in greater amount. Freshly boiling water should always be 
used to pour on the tea. 

Tea 

Scald an earthen or china teapot. Put in 1 ts. tea and pour over 
it 1 pt. freshly boiling water. Let stand five minutes in a warm 
place. Serve immediately. 

Russian Tea 

Serve a slice of lemon in each cup of tea with sugar to taste. In 
Russia a preserved strawberry is added to each cup. A clove and 
a cherry may be put in each cup for afternoon tea. 

Cocoa and Chocolate.  The cocoa tree is a native of Mex- 
ico ; it also grows in Central and South America and the West 
Indies. Cocoa and chocolate are both prepared from the 
seeds of the cocoa bean. The fruit is shaped like a large, thick 
cucumber, and contains from twenty to forty seeds. These 
are roasted like cofifee. The husks or shells are taken ofif 
and used in that form as cocoa shells. The various prepara- 
tions of cocoa are made from the ground beans, from which 
the fat or oil has been extracted. Chocolate contains a 
larger proportion of fat, it is mixed with starch and pressed 
into cakes. 

Chocolate 

li sq. Baker's chocolate 1 c. water 

4 tb. sugar 3 c. milk 

Add water to the chocolate and stir over the fire till it boils ; 
add sugar and milk. Bring to the boiling point, boil five minutes, 
whipping with an egg-beater. Serve. 



122 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cocoa 

3 tb. prepared cocoa 2 c. boiling water 

4 tb. sugar 2 c. milk 

Mix sugar and cocoa, and add ^ c. of the boiling water to make a 
smooth paste. Add remaining water and let boil five minutes. 
Add the milk and when this is scalded, beat with an egg-beater 
for a few minutes and serve. 

Note.  Interesting exhibits of cocoa and chocolate may be 
obtained from chocolate manufacturers. 

Cost of Cocoa.  Measure the number of teaspoonfuls of 
cocoa in a box. Estimate the number of cups of cocoa it 
will make and the cost per cup, including the milk used. 
Estimate the cost per cup of chocolate. 



CHAPTER XIII 

LEAVENING BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

Methods of Making Mixtures Light.  L Incorporation of Air. 
Physical change.  Air expands when heated. 
Methods: (a) By beating mixture. 

(6) By adding beaten eggs. 

2. Steam. 

Physical change.  Steam occupies 1600 times more space than 

the water which produced it. 
Methods: (a) Moisture, as in pop-overs. 
(6) Snow pancakes. 

3. Fermentation. 

Chemical change.  CO2 liberated. 
Methods: (a) Yeast. 

(6) Salt-rising bread. 

4. Acid and Alkali. 

Chemical change.  CO2 liberated. 
Methods: (a) Baking powder. 

(6) Soda and an acid, as cream of tartar, sour 
milk, molasses. 

Experiment 57.  Make a solution of J ts. soda and J c. water. 
Tast^. Test with litmus paper. 

Name some of the properties of an alkali. Test various washing 
powders with htmus paper. Are they alkalies ? 

Experiment 58.  Make a solution of 1 slightly rounding ts. 
of cream of tartar and } c. water. Taste. Test with litmus paper. 
Name some of the properties of an acid. Test lemon, vinegar, 
molasses, etc., with litmus paper. Are they acids or alkalies ? 

123 



124 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

ExFEBiMENT 59.  Pot sc^ti<Hi8 iji experiments 57 and 58 
togeiher. What causes the effervescence? Taste. Test with lit- 
mus paper. What effect have the add and alkali had on each other ? 
Is the result acid or alkaline? What causes the salty taste? 
What is formed by the union id an acid and alkaU? 

Experiment 60.  Make a solution of alum and water. Taste. 
Test with litmus paper. Has the alum an acid or alkaline reaction ? 
Is it substituted for the cream of tartar or for the soda in baking 
powder? Add soda to the alum solution; what is the result? 
What effect did it have upon the tongue? Is almn a healthful 
ingredient in baking powder? 

Experiment 61.  Test sour milk with litmus paper. Is it 
acid or alkaline ? Add a little soda ; what is the result ? Eepeat 
with molasses, brown sugar, chocolate. 

Experiment 62.  Mix baking powder with water; what is 

the result? Warm gently. Is the chemical action increased by 

^ heat ? Test with litmus paper. Is the reaction either acid or 

alkaline? Taste. What has been formed by the union of soda 

and the acid ? 

Experiment 63.  Pass the gas given off when soda and cream 
of tartar solutions are put together through limewater ; what gas 
is formed ? Test the gas given off when baking powder is moistened 
with water. What gas is generated when an acid is added to bicar- 
bonate of soda ? 

Baking Powders.  Baking powder is composed of bi- 
carbonate of sodium, NaHC02, which has in its composi- 
tion carbon dioxide and some acid. When the mixture is 
wet, the acid serves to liberate the carbon dioxide from 
the sodium bicarbonate. In order to keep those materials 
dry and to prevent chemical action from taking place before 
they are used, starch is added and is called a " filler." 
In cheap baking powders the stanch is added in very 
large amounts. The value of a baking powder depends 
upon the amount of gas it gives off. Its healthfulness 



LEAVENING  BATTERS AND DOUGHS 125 

depends upon its freedom from injurious residue left in 
the food. 

There are three classes of baking powder upon the market : 

1. Cream of Tartar. 

2. Phosphate. 

3. Alum. 

Cream of tartar is potassium acid tartrate, KHC4H4O6. 
It is prepared from the argols which collect on the inside of 
wine casks. These are then refined and purified and known 
as cream of tartar. 

The chemical reaction of cream of tartar baking powder 
is as follows : 

potassium acid -h bicarbonate = Rochelle + carbon -f water 
tartrate of sodium salt dioxide 

HKH4C4O6 + NaHCO, = KNaC4H406 + CO, + H2O 

There is left as a residue in a loaf of bread made from 
baking powder more Rochelle salt than is found in a Seidlitz 
powder ; but the amount eaten at any one time is so small 
as to have very little physiological effect. 

Cream of tartar is expensive, so cheaper forms of acid are 
often used in baking powders. 

Phosphate Baking Powders,  The acid used is phosphoric 
acid, which is obtained by the action of sulphuric acid on 
ground bone. The phosphate probably has little power to 
furnish phosphate to the body, not being in a form in which 
the body can assimilate it. 

Alum Baking Powders.  These are the most objection- 
able forms of baking powders, as their residue has an irri- 
tating effect upon the mucous membranes of the digestive 
organs. They are very cheap powders, so, unfortunately, 
they are extensively used. 



126 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Bicarbonate of sodium is obtained from common salt, is 
a very cheap product, and, therefore, is not adulterated. 

Proportions of add and -alkalies to be used in cooking : 

1 ts. soda and 2 slightly rounding ts. of cream of tartar for 1 qt. 

flour. 

2 ts. baking powder for each c. flour. 
1 ts. soda for 1 pt. thick sour milk. 

1 ts. soda to 1 c. molasses for batters. 

i ts. soda to 1 c. molasses for a stiff dough. 

Baking powder may be substituted for cream of tartar 
and soda, in the proportion of 2 level ts. for each c. flour or 
meal. 

Reduce the amount of baking powder by | ts. for each 
egg added to the mixture. 

Batters and Doughs.  A batter is a mixture of flour and 
some liquid. 

A thin batter is made in the proportion of 1 scant measure 
of liquid to 1 full measure of flour. 

A drop batter or muflSn mixture is in proportion of 1 scant 
measure of liquid to 2 full measures of flour. 

A dough is 1 measure of liquid to 3 scant nieasures of 
flour. 

A sponge is a drop batter to which yeast is added. 

Construction rule for baking powder mixtures: 

2 c. flour or 1 c. white and 1 c. rye, graham, etc. 

4 ts. baking powder ; reduce \ ts. for each egg added. 

2 vS. salt/. 

1 to 4 tb. shortening. 

1 scant c. milk. 

1 or 2 eggs, if desired. 

1 to 4 tb. sugar. 



LEAVENING^ BATTERS AND DOUGHS 127 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

2 c. flour 2 tb. lard or butter 

4 ts. baking powder 1 scant c. milk 

i ts. salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Work in lard with tips of fingers ; 
add the milk gradually to form a soft dough, mixing with a knife. 
Toss on a floured board, roll lightly to | inch thickness. Cut in 
rounds. Bake in a very hot oven 12 to 15 minutes. 

For shortcake use 4 tb. shortening. 

Scones 

Make as baking powder biscuit, using 4 tb. shortening, and add- 
ing 1 beaten egg to the milk. Roll dough thin, cut, brush the top 
of each scone with a little melted butter, and sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon. Put a piece of citron or candied orange peel in 
center, and bake. 

Dutch Apple Cake 

2 c. flour i c. butter 

^ ts. salt 1 egg 

3^ ts. baking powder 1 scant c. milk 

2 sour apples 

Mix dry ingredients, rub in the butter, add milk and beaten 
egg- Spread  inch thick on a shallow pan. Pare and cut apples 
in sections lengthwise; lay in rows on the dough with the sharp 
edge pressed lightly into the dough. Sprinkle the top with 2 tb. 
sugar and i ts. cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven 25 to 30 minutes. 
Serve hot, with lemon sauce or with butter. 

Lemon Sauce 

2 c. hot water Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

1 c. sugar 2 tb. butter 

3 tb. cornstarch 

Mix the cornstarch and sugar. Stir slowly into the boiling 
water. Cook 10 minutes. Add the lemon and butter. Serve. 



128 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Pin-wheel Biscuit 

2 c. flour 2 tb. lard 

4 ts. baking powder | c. stoned raisins 

i ts. salt 2 tb. chopped citron 

2 tb. sugar | ts. cinnamon 

Mix as a baking powder biscuit dough. Roll i inch thick. 
Brush with melted butter, sprinkle with the raisins cut fine, citron, 
sugar, and cinnamon. Roll like a jelly roll. Cut in sHces 1 inch 
thick. Bake in a hot oven 15 minutes. Currants may be used in 
place of raisins and citron. 

Orange Shortcake 

Make a baking powder biscuit dough. Roll into a cake f inch 
thick and bake in a quick oven. Split carefully. Spread with 
butter. Spread with oranges cut in small pieces and sweetened. 
Put another layer of oranges on top of the cake or sprinkle top with 
powdered sugar. 

Corn Bread 

1 c. com meal i c. sugar 

1 c. flour 1 egg 

3} ts. baking powder 1 c. milk 

i ts. salt 2 tb. melted butter 

Mix the dry ingredients, add milk, beaten egg, and butter. 
Beat well. Bake in a shallow pan in a quick oven twenty minutes. 
Serve hot. 

Corn Meal Muffins 

Mix as com bread, baking in muffin pans 25 minutes. 

Graham Gems 

1 c. graham flour 2 tb. butter, melted 

1 c. flour 1 c. molasses 

1 c. sour milk i ts. soda 

. i ts. salt 
Mix and sift dry ingredients; add milk to molasses, combine 
mixtures, and bake in hot muffin pans 25 to 30 minutes. 



LEAVENING ^BATTERS AND DOUGHS 129 

Rice Muffins 

3 c. flour 2 tb. sugar 
i ts. salt 1 pt. milk 

5 ts. baking powder i c. cooked rice 

2 eggs 2 tb. .butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk to beaten eggs; stir 
into the mixture, beat well, and bake in hot, greased mufiSn pans 
25 minutes. 

Nut Bread 

4 c. flour 1 ts. salt 

7 ts. baking powder f c. brown sugar 

Mix well together and add 1} c. milk, to which has been added 
1 well-beaten egg. Add 1 c. chopped nut meats. Bake in a greased 
brick loaf pan } hour. 

Brown Nut Bread 

i c. molasses 1 ts. salt 

1 ts. soda 1 ts. cream of tartar 

2 c. milk i c. sugar 

2 c. graham flour 1 c. nuts, chopped 

IJ c. white flour 
Add the soda to the molasses and beat until it foams. Add 
milk, then the dry ingredients mixed together. Add the nuts. 
Fill pound baking powder cans, greased, one half full, cover, let 
rise one half hour ; bake } hour in a moderate oven. 

Boston Brown Bread 

1 c. rye meal 2 c. sour milk 

1 c. com meal 2 ts. soda 

1 c. graham flour 1 ts. salt 

f c. molasses 
Mix and sift dry ingredients, add molasses and milk, beat well, 
put into well-buttered molds, and steam 4 or 5 hours. The cover 
should be buttered. Never fill the mold more than two thirds 
full. Baking powder cans or lard pails may be used for molds. 
Bake i hour after taking from steamer. 



130 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Pop-overs 

1 c. flour 1 ssp. salt 

1 c. milk (scant) 1 egg 

Add milk slowly to salt and flour till a smooth paste is formed. 
Add remainder of milk and the egg. Beat the mixture well and 
bake in hot gem pans, filling them two thirds full. Bake 30 minutes. 
Have the oven very hot at first and then reduce temperature. If 
removed from the oven before they are thoroughly baked, they 
wiU fall. 

Gingerbread 

i c. lard 3 c. flour 

Yolks of 1 or 2 eggs 1 ts. soda 

i c. milk 2 ts. ginger 

1} c. molasses i ts. salt 

Whites of 2 eggs 
Mix in the order given, sifting the dry ingredients tc^ther, and 
folding in the beaten whites last. Bake in a moderate oven 45 
minutes. Mixtures which contain molasses bum easily, so should 
be baked in a moderate oven. 

Griddle Cakes 

The griddle for baking cakes should be perfectly clean and 
smooth. If 1 or 2 tb. of melted shortening is added to the batter, 
the cakes may be cooked without using grease of any kind on the 
griddle. If grease is used, take a piece of salt pork, or tie a cloth 
on a short stick or fork, and grease with drippings or lard. Never 
leave pools of fat on the edge of the griddle to bum. Wipe pff the 
griddle with a cloth after each baking. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

2} c. flour 2 c. sour milk 

i ts. salt 1 egg 

1 ts. soda 
Sift dry ingredients ; add sour milk and well-beaten egg. Drop 
by spoonfuls on a hot greased griddle. When full of bubbles, turn 
and bake the other side. 



LEAVENING^BATTERS AND DOUGHS 131 

Bread Griddle Cakes 

1 pt. stale bread crumbs 1 pt. milk, scalded 

2 tb. butter 

Pour the hot milk over the crumbs and butter and soak till soft. 
Add 1 beaten egg, 1 c. flour, J ts. salt, 2 ts. baking powder. Cold 
milk to thin if necessary. Bake on a hot griddle. 

Waffles 

1 pt. flour 2 eggs 

3 ts. baking powder 1} c. milk 

i ts. salt 2 tb. butter, melted 

Mix in order given, adding milk with the beaten yolks, then 
butter, and last fold in the beaten whites. Bake in hot waffle pans. 

Caramel Syrup 

Melt 1 c. granulated sugar till a light brown, but do not let it 
bum. Add 1 c. boiling water and sinuner 10 minutes. Serve with 
waffles or hot cakes. 

Sugar Ssrrup 

1 c. sugar J c. water 

Boil together slowly for 10 minutes and serve with hot cakes. 
One tb. lemon juice may be added. 



CHAPTER XIV 
BREADS 

Note.  Studeat write a paper giving; the biatory of bread 
making; varieties of bread used by different nations; primitive 
and modem methods of milling ; commercial importance of wheat, 
of flour, and of the different eereala used for bread maldng ; world's 
production of wheat. 

BacTOiw or Qbaih of Whiat 



(a) Sking sad twtn (brsn), 

lb) Membrane (brui). 

(0 Embiyo. (/) Bcutellum. 

Wheat.  The wheat plant belonga to the grass family. 
The part that is used for food is the fruit or seed. This 
consists of three parts : 

(1) The germ, or embryo, which is the part of the seed 
that reproduces. It is composed of cellulose, protein, 
sugar, and a large proportion of fat. 

(2) The kernel, or endosperm, which is the central part of 
the grain. It consists of a cellular structure, which holds 
the starch granules, some protein, and sugar. 

1^ 



BREADS 133 

(3) The bran or outer covering, which is composed largely 
of cellulose and mineral matter, and contains a pigment or 
coloring matter. The bran forms a protective covering for 
the wheat grain and is made up of six layers. The five outer 
layers contain little but cellulose and mineral matter, but 
the innermost layer consists of rectangular cells filled with a 
protein called cerealin, or aleurone, and is the part of the 
grain which is richest in protein. 

In the early methods of milling, this layer was removed 
with the bran, but the modem methods make it possible to 
separate the outer bran layer, retaining the aleurone layer, 
thus making what is known as entire wheat fiour. 

Graham flour is made by grinding all of the wheat with 
the exception of the embryo. It thus contains the bran. 
It is useful when coarse food is needed to stimulate the action 
of the large intestine to prevent constipation. The bran 
itself may be made into cookies, etc., and eaten for this 
purpose. 

Protein in Wheat.  Wheat is the most important grain 
used for bread making on account of the physical properties 
of two of its proteins, called gliadin and glutenin. When 
mixed with water, these substances unite to form gluten. 
Gluten has the power of absorbing nearly three times its 
weight of water and forming a tough, sticky, elastic mass. 
When carbon dioxide is produced in dough, it seeks to 
escape, but is retained by the expansion of the elastic gluten, 
thus causing the dough to rise. 

Wheat is known as spring wheat and winter wheat. The 
spring wheat is planted in the spring and ripens or matured 
in the late summer. It is grown mainly in the northwestern 
parts of the United States and in the Canadian Northwest. 
The flour made from spring wheat is the best for bread 
making and for all forms of yeast mixtures. 



134 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Winter wheat is planted in the fall and it ripens in the 
early siunmer. It is grown in the sections of the country 
where the winters are less severe than in the Northwest,  
in Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, etc., and in more southern lati- 
tudes. It is a softer wheat than spring wheat and makes a 
whiter flour, which is used for cakes, pastry, etc. 

Note.  (o) Plant wheat in wet cotton, keeping it moist until 
the wheat plant grows. Note changes from time to time in the 
appearance of the wheat. Student write description of the sprout- 
ing of the wheat grain, using any standard botany for reference. 

(6) Examine a section of wheat under the microscope, noting: 
bran coats, aleurone layer, endosperm, and embryo. Stain a sec- 
tion of the wheat with iodine, which will turn the starch purple 
and the protein yellow. Make drawing of a section of wheat. 
Why has nature stored so many food principles in this little grain 
of wheat ? 

(c) Examine winter wheat and spring wheat flour, whole wheat 
flour, graham flour. Sift and examine the residue, if any, in the 
sieve. Compare color, texture, cohesion (press in hand). 

To determine the composition of wheat flxmr. 

Experiment 64.  Make a small amoimt of flour into a stiff 
dough. Put into a piece of fine cheesecloth and knead in a bowl 
of cold water until only a sticky mass is left in the cloth. Collect 
this. Note its physical properties. Work with the fingers for 
some minutes. Does the gluten become more elastic with knead- 
ing? Give one reason for kneading bread dough. Form part 
of the gluten into a ball and bake. What is the effect of heat 
upon it? 

Experiment 65.  Test some of the gluten from the above ex- 
periment to see if it is protein ? starch ? sugar ? See identification 
test for protein, page 69 ; for starch, page 21 ; for sugar, page 44. 

Experiment 66.  Boil some of the water in which the flour 
from experiment 64 was washed. Cool and test for starch. 

Experiment 67.  Let starch settle to bottom of the bowl in 
cup. Remove some of the clear top liquid and test for sugar. 



BREADS 



135 



Experiment 68.  (To be performed by the teacher.) Mix 
a little dry flour with ether, chloroform, or benzine. Filter, let- 
ting the filtrate drop on clean glass. Let the Uquid evaporate. 
What is left on the glass ? 

Caution.  The fumes of chloroform, ether, and benzine are very 
inflammable. Do not use with fire or light burning in the room. 

Experiment 69.  Bum a Httle flour in a porcelain crucible for 
several hours, or until only a white ash is left. What part of the 
flour is this ? 

Yeast.  (Review plant classification, page 50.) 




Yeast Plant (magnified), showing method of reproduction. 

Yeast is a single-celled plant that grows by budding, 
and requires sugar, some protein, and mineral matter for its 
nourishment. It is found floating in the air and settles on 
substances rich in sugar, where it grows and causes a chemi- 
cal change in the substance upon which it is feeding, called 
fermentation. This is the change which takes place when 



136 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

grape juice is changed to wine, when cider becomes " hard," 
or when " salt rising " bread is made. 

Yeast is obtained in a pure form for commercial purposes 
from distilleries or breweries. The top yeast which floats 
on the surface of the fermenting liquid, or wort, is skimmed 
oflf and its impurities removed. It is then mixed with some 
starch, pressed, cut into cakes, wrapped in tin foil, and sold 
as " compressed " yeast. When mixed with corn meal and 
dried, it is sold as " dry yeast." The yeast cells of dry yeast 
are not as active as those of compressed yeast and take longer 
to raise bread. 

Fermentation is a chemical change in an organic substance, 
caused by the growth within that substance of some ferment, 
as yeast. There are different varieties of ferments, each of 
which causes a different form of fermentation to take place. 

Alcoholic fermentation is caused by the growing of the 
yeast plant, which feeds upon sugar, changing it to alcohol 
and carbon dioxide. This is the fermentation that takes 
place in bread making. 

Acetic fermentation is caused by a ferment which changes 
the alcohol formed during alcoholic fermentation into 
acetic acid. 

It occurs when alcoholic fermentation is allowed to go on 
for too great a length of time, or when the mixture is raised 
to a temperature above 90 F., as when hard cider turns to 
vinegar or bread dough sours. 

Lactic fermentation is the change that takes place when 
milk sours. The lactic bacillus feeds upon the sugar of the 
milk and changes it to lactic acid ; this acid causes the casein 
to coagulate and the milk is " sour." 

When milk is used for bread dough, it should be scalded 
to destroy the lactic bacilli, thus preventing souring of the 
milk during the rising, which might cause sour bread. 



BREADS 137 

Chemical reactions in bread making : 

dextrose 
starch water or sugar 

CeHioOs + a ferment + HjO = CeH^Oe 

carbon 

Ala^uflic fermentation: alcohol dioxidc 

CeHijOe + yeast = 2 CiHjOH + 2 COj 

Aeetic fermentation : 

alcohol oxygen acetic acid water 

2 CjHbOH + 4 + a ferment = 2 CH,COO^ + 2 H,0 

Experiments with yeast. 

Experiment 70.  Mix a small amomit of yeast with water. 

(a) Put a drop on a glass slide, cover with a glass, and examine 
under the microscope, first with a low power and then with a high 
power. Make a drawing. 

(6) Stain the slide with a little iodine and examine again. What 
color do the yeast cells become when they are stained with 
iodine ? The starch cells ? What kind of starch was used in the 
yeast cake ? 

Experiment 71.  Make a solution of glucose and water, or 
molasses and water. Add some yeast. Let stand an hour or two 
in a warm place. Examine a drop under the microscope. How 
does the yeast cell reproduce ? 

Experiment 72.  Make a solution of glucose and water. 
Add some yeast. Put equal amoimts in three test tubes. 

(a) Boil the contents of one tube. 

(6) Put one tube in a cold place or on ice. 

(c) Keep one tube at temperature of 80 F. At the end of an 
hour or two, examine the contents of the tubes, noting any fermen- 
tation that may have occurred. Draw conclusions as to the best 
temperature for the growing of the yeast plant. 

Warm (6) to a temperature of 80 F. and let stand for an hour 
or two. Does cold destroy the life of the yeast? Does boiling 
destroy it? 



138 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Experiment 73.  Put a solution of glucose, water, and yeast 
in a flask. Keep it warm until it ferments. Pass the gas through 
limewater. What change occurs in the Umewater ? What gas is 
given off during alcoholic fermentation ? 

Proportion of ingredients in bread making. 

To every quart of wetting (milk and water) use : 

1 cake yeast dissolved in | e. lukewarm water, 
or 1 c. liquid yeast. 

2 ts. salt. 

2 tb. or more of sugar. 

In white bread use just enough sugar to replace the sugar of the 
flour lost during alcohoUc fermentation ; in other breads use sugar 
as desired for a flavor. 

Two tb. shortening (lard or butter). 

The amount of shortening may be increased for rolls or when 
a rich fancy dough is desired. For simple breads shortening 
may be omitted entirely. 

Flour to form a soft dough. 

If spring wheat flour is used, a smaller quantity will be required 
than would be needed of winter wheat. From two and a half 
to three times as much flour as Uquid should be used, which in- 
cludes the flour used on the board in kneading. With dark- 
colored flour, use about one-third white flour and the remainder 
dark flour. Doughs made with graham or entire wheat flour, 
which contain a large amount of gluten, are not made stiff 
enough to knead, but are well beaten with a spoon before being 
put to rise. 

Kneading.  Bread is kneaded twice, the first time to 
incorporate the ingredients thoroughly, thus insuring an 
even texture, and also to make the gluten elastic so as to 
retain the carbon dioxide formed during fermentation. It 
should be kneaded until smooth and elastic, and until little 



BREADS 139 

blisters may be seen on the surface of the dough. After the 
bread has risen until it is about double in size, it is kneaded 
again, but very lightly, the object being to break the large 
bubbles of CO2 present, in order that the loaf may be fine- 
grained and to form the dough into the desired shape with- 
out losing its lightness. It is then placed in the pan to rise 
until light enough to bake. 

Baking of Bread.  Bread is baked 

(1) To kill the yeast plant. 

(2) To hydrolize the starch granules. 

(3) To soften the cellulose. 

(4) To drive off the aleohol, CO2, and excess of moisture. 

(5) To dextrinize the starch, thus forming a crust of sweet, 
agreeable flavor. 

All bread should be thoroughly baked. If there is any 
doubt as to its being done, let it continue baking, as long 
baking makes it wholesome. The oven should be hot 
enough to turn a piece of paper a light brown in five minutes. 
After placing the loaf in the oven, increase the heat gradually 
for ten minutes, then decrease slowly until the end of the 
baking. The oven should turn a piece of paper a dark 
brown in five minutes when rolls are to be baked. 

Raw Potato Yeast 

J c. flour 1 to 2 qts. boiling water 

i c. sugar 1 cake compressed yeast 

1 tb. salt or 1 c. liquid yeast 
3 raw potatoes 

Pare potatoes and keep in cold water. Mix flour, sugar, and 
salt in a large bowl, and grate the potato in as quickly as possible. 
Mix at once with wooden spoon. Pour the boiling water directly 
from the teakettle, stirring constantly and adding enough water 
to make the mixture the consistency of thin starch. If it does 



140 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

not thicken, bring the mixture to the boiling point. Strain, and let 
cool. When lukewarm add yeast; if compressed, dissolve in 1 c. 
water. Keep mixture in warm (not hot) place till light. Beat 
well several times. At the end of 24 hours, put in earthen or glass 
jars, cover tightly, and put in a cool place. This will keep two 
weeks. Save the last cupful to start fresh yeast. 

White Bread 

1 pt. milk 2 tb. sugar 

2 tb. lard 2 ts. salt 

Put into a bowl and pour on them 1 pt. boiling water. When 
lukewarm, add 1 cake yeast dissolved in J c. lukewarm water, or 1 
c. liquid yeast. Add flour to make a soft dough. Knead on a 
floured board. Put into a greased bowl to rise, greasing the top 
of the dough to prevent a crust forming. Cover closely and let 
rise until it doubles in size, keeping the dough at a temperature of 
from 80 to 85 F. Knead again and shape into loaves. Let rise 
in the pan from ^ to f hours. It should not quite double in size. 
Bake 50 or 60 minutes, or until the loaf is a rich brown and emits 
a hollow sound when tapped on the bottom. Brush the loaf with 
milk. Let stand exposed to the air on all sides to allow the steam 
to escape. Put it into a freshly scalded bread jar, cover, but do 
not wrap in a cloth. 

Parker House Rolls 

1 pt. milk scalded 2 tb. sugar 

2 tb. butter 1 ts. salt 

When lukewarm, add J cake yeast dissolved in J c. water. Add 
flour to make a batter. Beat well. Add 1 beaten egg, and flour 
to make a dough. Knead and let rise till light. Shape into rolls, 
handling the dough as little as possible. Let rise in the pan about 
1 hour or until very light. Bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. 
Brush with milk or butter. The egg may be omitted. 

Rolls may also be made from bread dough. They take their 
name from the different forms in which they are shaped. 



BREADS 141 

Entire Wheat Bread 

1 pt. milk scalded i c. sugar 

1 ts. salt or } c. molasses 

When lukewarm, add i cake yeast dissolved in ^ c. water. 
Add 4} c. entire wheat flour or enough to make a soft dough. 
Beat well, cover, and let rise until it doubles in size. Beat down 
and pour into greased bread pans. Let rise till light and bake 1 
hour in a moderate oven. It should not quite double in bulk during 
the last rising. 

Graham Bread 

1 pt. milk scalded i cake yeast dissolved in } c. 

4 tb. sugar water 

1 ts. salt 2 c. white flour 

3 to 3^ c. sifted Graham flour 
Mix in the order given into a dough a little softer than for white 
bread. Beat well, let rise till light or till it doubles in size. Stir 
down. Pour into greased pans, let rise f hour, and bake a little 
longer and in a more moderate oven than for white bread. Whole 
wheat may be used in place of Graham flour. 

Rye Bread 

1 pt. scalded milk i cake compressed yeast dis- 

2 tb. butter solved in  c. water 
2 tb. sugar 2 c. white flour 

1 ts. salt Rye flour till stiff enough to 

knead 
Mix in the order given, knead, let rise till light, and double in 
size, knead lightly, shape into loaves. Let rise in the pan till light, 
bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 c. oatmeal i c. sugar 

3 c. boiling water 1 cake compressed yeast dis- 
1 tb. lard solved in 1 c. water 

li ts. salt Flour to make dough 



142 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Scald oatmeal with boiling water, add lard, sugar, and salt, and 
when lukewarm the dissolved yeast. Add flour to make a dough 
stiff enough so that the spoon will stand upright in it. Beat well 
as the flour is added. Let rise 2 to 3 hours or until it doubles in 
size. Beat down, put into greased bread pans, let rise about i 
hour or until light. Bake 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

To Ascertain the Cost of Bread : 

Price of pastry flour (winter wheat) 

Price of bread flour (spring wheat) 

Price of bread flour per pound 

Number of pounds required to make recipe for white bread 

Cost of other ingredients 

Total cost 

Number of loaves made 

Cost per loaf 

Weight of loaf 

Cost per loaf of baker's bread 

Weight of loaf of baker's bread 



CHAPTER XV 

FATS  FRYING, AND PASTRY 

Sources of fat. 

1. Adipose tissue of animals, as beef fat, suet, etc. 

2. Bone marrow. 

3. Milk. Fat globules are held in suspension in the milk serum. 
(See Milk, page 108.) 

4. Some vegetables. Some vegetables contain a small amount 
of fat, but they do not form an important source of fat in the 
diet. 

5. Some fruits and seeds. The olive is an important source of 
fat, furnishing olive oil. The seed of the cotton plant furnishes an 
important commercial oil, cottonseed oil. 

6. Nuts. Nuts contain a large amount of fat. The oil of 
peanuts and cocoanuts furnish important commercial forms of oil. 

Fats are composed of co-rbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. 
They contain a larger amount of carbon and hydrogen than 
do carbohydrates, hence have a greater fuel value. 





Carbon 


Htdbooen 


OXTGEN 


Carbohydrates .... 
Fats 


44.4% 
76.5 % 


6.2% 
11.9% 


49.4 % 
11.5% 



One pound of fat yields approximately two and one 
fourth times as much heat and energy as one pound of car- 
bohydrates, hence forms a valuable food in cold climates. 

143 



144 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Fats are composed of fatty acids and glycerine. Among 
the fatty acids are : 

1. Stearic acid of stearin. 

2. Palmatic acid of palmatin. 

3. Oleic acid of olein. 

One or more of these acids are found in all fats in combina- 
tion with glycerine. The fatty acid which predominates 
gives the characteristic to the fat. 

Fats may be split up into fatty acids and glycerine by 

(1) Being heated. in very hot steam. 

stearin glycerine stearic acid 

(Ci7Ha602)8C3H6 4- 3H2O = C8H5(OH)8 4- SCnHsfiCGGH 

(2) Bacterial action, as when fats become rancid. 

(3) Action of fat-splitting enzymes of the digestive fluids. 

(4) Action of strong alkalies, as in soap making. 

(5) Action of high temperature, as in frying. 

Fats are insoluble in water, but are soluble in ether, 
chloroform, gasoline, etc. To remove grease spots from 
clothing, moisten the spot with any of the above solvents 
and rub lightly until dry. The solvent will dissolve the 
grease and thus free the dust which may have adhered to it. 
This cleaning process should always be carried on in the open 
air and away from any flame, as the fumes of gasoline, etc., 
are very inflammable when mixed with air and ignite easily, 
often causing serious accidents. 

Emulsion.  When fat is divided into minute globules 
which are held in suspension in a liquid, it is said to be 
in emulsion. This is a physical state and is readily broken 
down. The most perfect example of an emulsion is the 
suspension of the fat globules in fresh milk. The emulsion 
is but temporary and the fat rises to the surface in the form 
of cream. 



FATS  FRYING, AND PASTRY 145 

Saponification.  When fat is heated with a strong alkali, 
it is split up into fatty acid and glycerine, the alkali uniting 
with the acid and forming a soap, and the glycerine being 
set free. This reaction is called saponification and may be 
expressed by the following formula : 

sodium sodium 

palmatin -h hydrate = palmitate -h glycerine 
CaHfiCCieHaiO,), + 3NaOH = SNaCieHuOj + CHjCOH), 

The soap is soluble in water. This reaction is made use 
of in household cleaning when a strong alkali as soda, lye, 
borax, etc., is added to " cut the grease." 

An excellent soap may be made in the household from 
fats left in cooking combined with a strong alkali, such as 
concentrated lye. All fats or drippings left from cooking 
should, therefore, be saved for soap making. Full directions 
for making soap are given with the lye purchased for soap 
making. 

FRYING 

Frying is cooking by immersion in hot fat at a tempera- 
ture of from 350 to 400 F. Lard, olive oil, beef suet, beef 
drippings, or some commercial forms of fat may be used. 
The fat should be so hot that it will instantly coagulate the 
albumen on the outside of the article, forming a coating to 
keep the fat from soaking in. All articles which do not 
contain egg in sufficient quantity must be rolled in fat-proof 
coating. Lard boils at 585 F., so for cooking purposes fat 
does not boil. The ebullition which takes place is due to 
water in the article fried being converted into steam. Too 
many articles should not be placed in the fat at one time, 
as they will cool the fat. The articles should not be too 
cold, as that will also cool the fat. All fried food should be 
perfectly drained by holding over the kettle of fat and 



146 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

shaking gently, and then laid on brown paper. Raw potato 
absorbs the unpleasant odors or gases of fat, and collects 
some of the sediment, so a few slices should be put in 
both before and after frjdng. After using fat, allow it to 
cool slightly, then pour it through a cheesecloth put over 
a strainer. It may thus be used several times. When 
several articles are to be fried, fry them in the follow- 
ing order : potatoes, batter mixtures, breaded articles, fish. 

Objections to Frying as a Method of Cooking, 

1. Articles may be grease-soaked. 

2. High temperature necessary for frying splits fat up into fatty 
acid and glycerine. Fatty acid is irritating to organs of digestion. 
Glycerine is farther split up by heat into acrolein, which gives the 
disagreeable odor to hot fat and which is also very irritating to the 
mucous membranes of the digestive organs. 

Burning Point.  The higher the burning point of a 
fat, the more valuable is the fat for frying purposes, as it 
will retain a greater amount of heat before it carbonizes. 
Butter has a low burning point, hence carbonizes easily and 
is a poor fat to use for frying. 

Experiment 74.  Take temperature of fat when it begins to 
heat with a laboratory thermometer that will register 450 F. 
Note temperature of fat when it bubbles. What is the cause of 
the bubbling ? Heat until it stops bubbling and begins to smoke. 
Note temperature. Drop in a slice of potato. What causes the 
bubbling in the fat? What is the temperature of fat when it is 
hot enough for frying? Note odor of acrolein. 

Experiment 75.  Heat in separate pans small amounts of 
butter, lard, cottolene, and other commercial fats. Which biuns 
most easily? Which has the highest burning point? 

Cost of Fat for Frying.  When making doughnuts put a 
definite weight of lard and any fats used locally for frying, 
in kettles of the same size. Fry an equal number of dough- 



FATS  FRYING, AND PASTRY 147 

nuts in each. Weigh the lard and the other fats which are 
left after frying, computing the amount and cost of the 
fats used. Estimate the cost of frying a dozen doughnuts 
in each kind of fat. 

Rule for testing fat.  When the fat begins to smoke, drop 
in an inch cube of bread from the soft part of the loaf. If it 
browns in forty seconds the temperature is right for frying 
any cooked mixture, as croquettes; if it browns in sixty 
seconds it is right for uncooked mixtures, as doughnuts. 

Fried Potatoes 

Wash and pare potatoes. Slice thinly on a vegetable slicer into 
a bowl of ice water. Let stand an hour, drain, and dry between 
towels. Fry in hot fat, stirring while frjdng to make them brown 
evenly. When a light brown put into a colander. Sprinkle lightly 
with salt. 

French Fried Potatoes 

Select small potatoes of uniform size. Wash, pare, and cut into 
eighths lengthwise. Soak 1 hour in cold water. Dry well and fry 
in hot fat until the center of the potato is cooked. Drain well in a 
colander or on brown paper. Sprinkle with salt, and serve. 

Doughnuts 

Yolks of 4 eggs or 2 whole eggs  ts. salt 

1 c. sugar i ts. each cinnamon and nutmeg 

3 tb. melted butter Flour to make a dough just 
J c. milk and J c. water stiff enough to handle, about 

4 ts. baking powder 4 c. 

To the beaten eggs add sugar and butter. Beat well, add water 
and milk, then 2 c. flour sifted with the baking powder, salt, and 
spices. Add more flour till of the right consistency. Toss one 
third of the mixture on a floured board. Knead lightly. Roll to J 
inch or more in thickness. Cut with a doughnut cutter and fry in 
deep fat. Drain well. 



148 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Doughnuts should come quickly to the top of the fat, brown 
slightly on one side, then be turned to brown on the other. If the 
fat is not hot enough, they will absorb fat ; if too hot, they will 
brown before sufficiently risen. When they are slightly cool, put 
them in a paper bag, one at a time, with 3 or 4 tb. powdered sugar, 
and shake gently to coat them with sugar. 

Crullers 

i c. butter 4 c. flour, or enough to 

1 c. sugar make dough 

2 eggs, beaten separately 4 ts. baking powder 
1 c. milk i ts. nutmeg 

Powdered sugar and cinnamon 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, beaten yolks and beaten 
whites. Mix dry ingredients, add alternately with the milk. Put 
on floured board, roU thin, and cut in pieces two by three mches. 
Cut 3 or 4 parallel incisions, run finger in and out of them, and 
drop into deep fat. Fry the same as doughnuts, and roll in 
powdered sugar and cinnamAn. 

Potato Croquettes 

1 pt. hot mashed potatoes | ts. celery salt 

2 tb. butter i tb. grated onion 

J ts. salt 1 tb. minced parsley 

Cayenne and black pepper Yolks of 1 or 2 eggs 

to taste 

Mix all but the egg and beat till very light. When slightly cool 
add beaten egg. Shape into balls. Roll in fat-proof coating and 
fry in deep fat. Drain on brown paper. Serve hot. 

Veal Croquettes 

Chop cold veal fine. Season highly with salt, celery salt, 
cayenne, lemon juice and parsley. Moisten IJ c. of the veal with 
1 c. thick cream sauce. (Page 24.) Spread out the mixture on a 



FATS  FRYING, AND PASTRY 149 

plate and allow it to become perfectly cold. Shape into cylinders, or 
pear shaped mounds, roll in fat-proof coating, and fry in deep 
fat. Drain and serve hot. 

Chicken, salmon, lobster, sweetbread, or any meat croquettes 
are prepared. in same manner. 

Fat-proof Coating 

Roll the article to be fried in fine sifted bread crumbs, then dip 
in egg slightly beaten with 1 tb. water, roll again in crumbs. If 
not perfectly coated the article may crack in frying. 

To prepare Crumbs 

Dry pieces of bread in the oven without browning, roll or put 
them through the meat chopper and sift. Put into fruit jars to be 
ready for use. 

Bread criunbs make a richer brown than cracker crumbs. 

Fritter Batter 

1 c. flour Whites of 2 eggs 

i ts. salt Yolks of 2 eggs 

J c. milk or water 1 tb. melted butter or olive oil 

Mix salt and flour. Add milk gradually, yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick, butter, and beaten whites of the eggs. If intended for 
fruit, add 1 ts. sugar ; if for oysters or tripe, add 1 tb. lemon juice. 

Banana Fritters 

4 bananas Powdered sugar 

1 tb. lemon juice 
Remove skins from bananas, cut in halves lengthwise and then 
across. Sprinkle with sugar and lemon and let stand. Dip in 
fritter batter, fry m deep fat, drain, and serve hot with lemon sauce. 

Fried Fish 

Clean and dry the fish, and bone it. Rub with salt and pepper. 
Cut into pieces suitable for serving, roll in fat-proof coating and fry 
in deep fat 5 to 7 m. Drain and serve with tomato, tartar, or any 
acid sauce. 



150 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cheese Croquettes 

Whites of 3 eggs 1 ssp. mustard 

1 c. grated cheese Speck of cayenne 

Beat the whites very stiff, stir in the cheese and seasoning. 
Let stand in a cold place till stiff enough to mold. Make into small 
balls the size of a hickory nut and fry in hot fat. Serve with salad. 

PASTRY 

While the materials which are used in making pastry are 
wholesome and nutritious, they are combined in a form 
which makes them somewhat difficult to digest, so pastry 
should be used sparingly in the diet. 

The requisites for good pastry are that it shall be tender, 
flaky, and light. The first quality will depend upon the 
amount and the kind of fat used, upon the manner in which 
the pastry is handled in mixing and rolling, and upon the 
amount of water used in making the dough. If but little 
water is used, the gliadin and glutinin of the flour do not 
unite to form as tough a gluten, and the pastry is more 
tender. It was noted in bread making that working the 
dough made the gluten elastic, and as this is not desired in 
pastry making, the dough should be handled as little and as 
lightly as possible. 

The flaky quality of the pastry will depend upon the num- 
ber of layers of flour and fat that are formed in the dough 
by the methods of rolling and folding. The shortening used 
should be very cold and firm, so that it will not soften and 
mix with the flour. All pastry is improved if the dough is 
placed in a napkin and put near the ice for some time before 
being rolled into shape for baking. 

The lightness of the pastry will depend upon the amount 
of air incorporated in the dough in folding, and its expan- 



FATS  FRYING, AND PASTRY 151 

sion in baking. A small amount of baking powder is some- 
times added to the flour before making it into dough. 

Winter wheat flour should be used, as it contains less gluten 
.than spring wheat flour and makes a more tender crust. 

Shortening for Pastry 

1. BvJtter. This makes a crisp, brown, somewhat hard 
crust. It is used in making puf paste and may be mixed 
with other fats for ordinary pastry. 

2. Lard. This makes a soft, white, and tender crust. 

3. Beef suet. When properly tried out, this is a good 
and an inexpensive form of fat. 

4. Many commercial forms of fat mixtures may be used. 

To render fat  Cut beef suet or leaf fat from pork into 
small pieces. Soak in cold salted water for several hours. 
Drain off water and heat fat slowly until the fat separates 
out and the connective tissue browns slightly. Drain 
through a cheese cloth placed over a colander. Press to 
remove all fat. 

Note to Student.  Why is the fat soaked in salted water ? 
Weigh fat and estimate cost per pound. Compare cost with cur- 
rent market price of lard. 

AMOUNT OF SHORTENING FOR PASTRY 

Flour Shortening 

Puff Paste 2 c. 1 c. butter 

Pastry 2 c. f c. shortening 

Plain Pastry 2 c.  c. shortening 

Use i ts. salt to 2 c. flour. 

i ts. baking powder may be added to flour. 

1 c. flour makes one large pie with a double crust. 



152 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Pastry 

1} c. flour 7 ts. salt 

\ c. shortening Ice water to make stiff dough 

Sift the salt with the flour, add one half the shortening, and with 
a knife cut it into pieces about the size of a pea. Add the ice water 
gradually, lifting with a knife that portion which was moistened 
first and put it on a floured board, or push to one side of the bowl. 
Wet another portion, and so continue until all is moistened, using 
just enough water to hold it together. Dredge the dough on the 
board with flour, roll lightly from you into a long strip. Put the 
remainder of the shortening cut in small pieces over the top of the 
strip, sprinkle lightly with flour and fold it up toward the center. 
Roll again into a long strip and roll this up like a jelly roll. Cut 
from the roll enough paste for a crust, roll to fit the pan, place on 
the ungreased pie tin, fulling it slightly as pastry shrinks in baking. 
Trim the edges with a knife as far over the outside edge of the pan 
as possible. Put in the filling, rounding it a little in the center. 

Roll the upper crust. While it is still on the board, make 
perforations to let the steam escape during the baking. Lay the 
upper crust on the pie by lifting it on the rolling pin, fold back 
one half, wet the edge of the lower crust, put the upper half 
back on it. Trim the upper crust, pressing the edges lightly 
together. 

Pies baked without an upper crust should have a double rim. 
Roll paste into long pieces, and cut strips about one inch and a 
quarter wide ; fit neatly on the rim of under crust before filling the 
pie. Perforated tins may be used for baking pies, thus insuring 
a well-baked under crust. Pastry should be thoroughly cooked and 
well browned. Pies require from thirty to forty-five minutes for 
baking. Do not grease the tin. When slightly cool, slip the pie 
on to an earthen plate. 

Apple Pie 

4 or 5 sour apples 1 ts. lemon juice 

f c. sugar I ts. salt 

i ts. nutmeg J ts. butter 



FATS  FRYING, AND PASTRY 153 

Line a pie plate with paste. Pare and slice apples. Put a row 
around the plate one half inch from the edge, fill the center of the 
plate, then pile on the remaining apples. Mix sugar, salt, nutmeg 
and lemon juice and sprinkle on the apples. Dot with butter and 
sprinkle with flour. Add a little water. Put on the upper crust, 
bake 40 to 45 m. in a moderate oven. 

Evaporated apples may be soaked overnight and used in place 
of fresh ones. 

Pumpkin Pie 

IJ c. steamed and strained J ts. each cinnamon, gin- 
pumpkin ger, nutmeg 
i c. sugar 1 egg 
i ts. salt J c. milk 

Add sugar, salt, spice to pumpkin ; add the milk, scalded, and 
when cool, the egg slightly beaten. 

Pour into a crust with* a double rim. Bake in a quick oven at 
first to set rim; decrease the heat afterward, as milk and egg in 
combination must be cooked at a low temperature. 

If richer pie is desired, use 1 c. pimipkin,  c. milk, J c. cream, 
and an additional egg yolk. 

Custard Pie 

2 eggs i ts. salt 

J c. sugar IJ c. milk 

Nutmeg 

Beat egg slightly, add sugar, salt, and milk. Strain into a pie 
plate lined with crust with a double rim. Bake in a quick oven 
at first to set the rim ; decrease the heat afterward, as the custard 
will separate if cooked too quickly. When a knife inserted into 
the custard comes out clean, the pie is baked. 

Do not allow the custard to boil during the baking. 



154 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Mince Meat 

1 chopped apple 1 tb. boiled cider 

i c. raisins, seeded and 1 c. sugar 

chopped 1 ts. cinnamon 

i c. currants i ts. cloves 

I c. butter or suet i grated nutmeg 

1 tb. molasses i ts. mace 

1 ts. salt 

Add enough stock in which the meat was cooked to moisten; 
heat gradually and sinuner 10 m. Then add 1 c. chopped meat, 
1 tb. currant jelly. Cook 15 m. 

Lemon Pie 

I c. sugar Yolks of 2 eggs 

1 c. water Grated rind and juice 

3 tb. com starch of one lemon 

1 ts. butter 

Mix com starch and sugar, add boiling water, stirring constantly ; 
cook 2 m., add butter, beaten yolks, and lemon. Pour into a pan 
lined with a crust with a double rim. Bake till pastry is brown. 
Cool slightly and cover with a meringue. 

Meringue 

Whites of 2 eggs A few drops of lemon 

4 tb. powdered sugar juice or vanilla 

Beat the whites till stiff, add sugar gradually, continue beating, 
add flavoring, and spread on the pie. Bake in a slow oven 10 to 
12 m. If cooked quickly and too long, meringue is tough. 

Cranberry Pie 

Line a pie dish with paste and fill with uncooked cranberries. 
Add i c. molasses, 4 tb. sugar. Cover with an upper crust and 
bake in a quick oven 30 m. 



FATS  FRYING, AND PASTRY 155 

Cranberry Tart 

Line a pan with paste, fill with stewed and sweetened cran- 
berries. Lay strips of crust over the top, log cabin fashion, and 
bake. 

Tarts 

Roll paste ^g inch thick. Cut with a biscuit cutter. Cut as 
many more pieces with a doughnut cutter. Brush the circles with 
water and lay the rims on them. Chill thoroughly and bake 15 m. 
in a hot oven. Cool and fill with jelly. By placing 3 or 4 rings on 
the tart, shells may be made for creamed 03rsters or chicken. 

Cheese Straws 

Roll paste } inch thick. Sprinkle one half with grated cheese 
to which has been added a few grains of salt and cayenne. Fold, 
press edges together, fold again, roll out i inch thick. Sprinkle 
with cheese and proceed as before ; repeat twice. Cut in strips 5 
inches long, i inch wide ; dust with salt. Bake 8 m. in hot oven. 



CHAPTER XVI 

CAKES AND PUDDINGS 

Cakes may be classified under two heads : 

1. Cakes without butter, or sponge cakes. 

2. Cakes with butter. 

Powdered sugar makes a fine-grained cake. Coarse granu- 
lated sugar makes a coarse-grained, sticky cake. Winter 
wheat flour should be used, as it makes a light, tender cake. 

To mix Sponge Cake,  Separate the yolks from the 
whites. Beat the yolks till lemon-colored and thick. Add 
the sugar gradually and continue beating. Add flavoring. 
Fold in the whites beaten stiflf. Sift in the flour carefully, 
and do not beat after adding the flour, or the air bubbles 
will be broken and the cake will be close grained and tough. 

Do not grease the pan for sponge cakes. Line the bottom 
of the pan with ungreased paper cut to fit it. 

To mix Butter Cakes,  Use an earthen bowl and a wooden 
spoon. Have all the ingredients measured and ready, the 
pans greased before beginning to mix the cake. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar gradually, and beat till very light. 
Add the beaten yolks, flavoring, then the milk, and flour in 
which the baking powder has been sifted, alternately. Beat 
well, as cake is made fine-grained only by long beating; 
then fold in the beaten whites. Never stir the cake after 
the final beating. 

For butter cakes, grease the pan with lard (do not use 

butter, as it bums), sprinkle with flour, shake out all the 

156 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 157 

flour that does not adhere to the grease. Fill the pans about 
two thirds full, having the mixture come well into the comers. 
Leave a slight depression in the middle, so that the cakes 
will be level when baked. 

Baking.  The baking is the most critical part of cake 
making. Test the oven with a piece of white paper. If it 
turns a light yellow in 5 minutes, it is ready for sponge cakes ; 
if a dark yellow in 5 minutes, it is ready for butter cakes. 

The time of baking should be divided into quarters; 
during the first quarter the mixture should begin to rise; 
during the second quarter it should continue to rise and 
begin to brown ; in the third quarter, contmue browning ; 
in the last quarter, finish baking and shrink from the edge 
of the pan. Cake should not be moved until it has risen 
its full height. When it feels firm to the touch, shrinks 
from the pan, stops crackling, and a straw inserted comes 
out clean, the cake is done. Small and layer cakes require 
a hotter oven than sponge and loaf cakes. 

Sponge cakes are of two general kinds : 

1. Those in which the eggs and sugar are the only liquids 
used. 

2. Those in which water is added for part of the liquid. 
Sponge cake is nutritious and is easily digested. It is 

the best form of cake to give to children. 

Note.  Estimate the cost of a sponge cake made without water, 
and a sponge cake made with water, and compare with the cost 
of butter cakes. Compute the relative cost of sponge and butter 
cakes at different seasons of the year. 

Sponge Cake (without water) 

5 eggs J lemon (grated rind and juice) 

1 c. fine granulated sugar 1 c. flour 

"s xiSm saiu 



158 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Mix as in directions for sponge cake. The mixture should 
be stiff and spongy. Bake in a loaf in a deep pan nearly 1 hour, 
in a shallow pan about 40 minutes. 

Berwick Sponge Cake (with water) 

Yolks 3 eggs 2 c. flour 

1| c. sugar 2 ts. baking powder 

i c. water Whites 3 eggs 

7 ts. lemon extract, or grated rind and juice  lemon 
Beat the yolks 5 minutes, add sugar and beat 3 minutes, then 

the water, lemon, flour and baking powder, and last fold in the 

beaten whites. Bake in a loaf. 

Washington Pie 

Bake Berwick Sponge cake in round, shallow tins. When cool, 
split and fill with cream. Sprinkle top with powdered sugar. 

Cream Filling for Washington Pie.  Scald 1 pt. milk. Mix 5 tb. 
flour, J c. sugar with a little cold milk. Stir into scalding milk. 
Cook 5 m. Add 1 beaten egg, J ts. salt. Cook till thick. When 
cool, flavor with J ts. vanilla. 

Angel Food 

Whites of 11 eggs, 1 c. flour measured after one sifting, then 
sifted four times. If c. fine granulated sugar sifted three times. 
Beat the whites till stiff, on a platter with 1 ts. cream of tartar, 
add the sugar gradually, and 1 ts. vanilla or almond. Sift in the 
flour quickly and lightly. Pour into an ungreased pan and bake 
in a slow oven 45 or 50 minutes. Invert the pan till slightly cool. 

Note.  Estimate the cost of an angel food with eggs at various 
prices. Compare with cost of butter cakes. 

Soft Molasses Cookies 

1 c. molasses | c. butter or lard softened 

1} ts. soda 1 ts. ginger 

1 ts. salt 1 ts. mixed spice 

1 c. sour milk Flour 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 159 

Add soda to molasses and beat well, add milk, shortening, 
spicef salt and flour enough to roll. Put on a floured board and 
roll i inch thick. Cut and bake. 

Sponge Drops 

4 eggs 1 ts. flavoring 

i c. powdered sugar | c. pastry flour 

i asp. salt 
Mix as for sponge cake. Drop by spoonfuls on an ungreased pan, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar and bake 12 to 16 minutes in a slow 
oven. 

Cookies 

J c. butter { ts. nutmeg 

1 c. sugar 4 ts. baking powder 

1 or 2 eggs 2} c. flour, or enough to roll 
i c. milk out thin 

Mix in the order given, following directions for mixing cup 
cakes. Roll out, cut, sprinkle the top with sugar. Bake about 
10 m. 

Sour Cream Cookies 

J c. butter J c. sour cream 

1^ c. sugar 1 ts. soda 

2 eggs Flour to roll 

Mix as above. 

Hermits 

I c. butter i c. raisins stoned and chopped 

} c. sugar i ts. cinnamon 

1 egg i ts. cloves 
4 tb. milk i ts. mace 

2 c. flour } ts. nutmeg 

2 ts. baking powder 
Cream butter, add sugar gradually, raisins, beaten egg and 
milk. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add. Roll a little 
thicker than plain cookies. Cut and bake. 



160 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Jumbles 

i lb. butter 2 eggs 

i lb. powdered sugar | lb. flour 

Nutmeg 

Save out 3 tb. of the sugar to roll them in. Cream the butter, 
add sugar, beaten eggs, flour and nutmeg. Roll, cut with a dough- 
nut cutter, and bake a light brown. 

Sand Tarts 

i lb. butter 3 eggs 

1 lb. brown sugar 1 lb. flour 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, beaten eggs, leaving out the 
white of one, and the flour. Roll thin, cut into 3-ipch squares. 
Brush with the white of an egg and sprinkle with granulated sugar 
and cinnamon. ' Put an almond or raisin in the center of each and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Ginger Snaps 

1 c. molasses i ts. soda 

i c. shortening 1 ts. salt 

1 tb. ginger 3i c. flour 

Heat the molasses to boiling point and pour over the short- 
ening. Add dry ingredients mixed and sifted. Chill thoroughly. 
Roll as thin as possible, cut and bake. Keep the dough cool or 
you will have to add more flour, which will make the cookies hard. 

Place cookies far enough apart on the baking pans so that 
they will not run together. Roll only a part of the dough at a 
time, gather up the trimmings, and add to the dough. Knead 
lightly till mixed. 

Soft Ginger Cookies 

} c. shortening (butter and lard) 
1 c. sugar 1 ts. each cinnamon, ^ger, 

1 c. molasses and salt 

J c. hot water, in which dis- J ts. cloves 

solve li ts. soda Flour to make a soft dough 

Mix in order given ; roll and bake. 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 161 

Note.  Estimate the cost per dozen of the various small cake 
and cookies. 

Note.  Student study recipes of butter cakes as obtained from 
various cook books and family recipes and tabulate them as to 
the proportions of ingredients used. Also estimate cost. Ar- 
range the proportions on the basis of 3 c. flour used in the cake. 

Name and Source of Recipe 
BuTTEB Sugar 

Milk Egos 

Flour Baking Powdbb 

Total Cost of Recipe 

One Egg Cake 

i c. butter creamed 1 c. milk 

1 c. sugar 2i c. flour 

1 egg beaten light 3? ts. baking powder 

7 ts. vanilla 

Mix in the order given, following directions for butter cake. 
Bake in a shallow pan in a moderate oven for 20 to 30 minutes. 

White Cake 

i c. butter 3 c. flour 

I7 c. sugar 4 ts. baking powder 

1 c. water Whites 4 eggs 

1 ts. flavoring 
Follow directions for mixing butter cakes. 

Park Street Cake 

i c. butter 4 eggs 

1^ c. sugar 4 ts. baking powder 

1 c. milk 1 ts. flavoring 

3 c. flour 1 ssp. mace 

Cream the butter, add 1 c. sugar. Add the remaining cup of 
sugar to the beaten yolks, beat well together and proceed as in 
directions for butter cakes. Bake in 2 loaves in a moderate oven, 
or in layers. 

M 



162 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Spice Cake 

i c. butter 2 eggs 

i c. sugar 2} c. flour 

i c. raisins seeded and cut in 3 ts. baking powder 

pieces 

i c. molasses i ts. salt 

f c. boiled coffee J ts. cinnamon 

i ts. nutmeg grated i ts. allspice 
Follow directions for mixing butter cakes. Bake in a loaf 
in a moderate oven, or in layers. 

Devil's Food 

Part 1. i c. butter J c. sweet milk 

1 c. brown sugar 1 ts. soda 

1 whole egg and 2 yolks 2| c. flour 
Mix as any cake. 

Part 2. 3 squares chocolate J c. sweet milk 

1 c. brown sugar 
Heat over hot water till smooth; add to Part 1 with J ts. 
vanilla. Bake in two layers and frost with white frosting. 

Plain Frosting 

White of 1 egg J ts. vanilla or 

2 ts. cold water J tb. lemon juice 

f c. confectioner's sugar 
Beat egg stiff. Add water and sugar and beat well. Add 
flavoring and more sugar if needed. Spread with a broad knife. 



Boiled Frosting 

1 c. granulated sugar } c. water 

J ts. cream of tartar 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 163 

Mix together, and boil, without stirring, until the syrup will 
thread when dropped from a fork. Pour gradually on the beaten 
white of 1 egg, beating constantly, and continue beating until thick 
enough to spread. Flavor with i ts. vanilla. K not beaten long 
enough it will run when spreading; if beaten too long it will not 
spread smoothly. In the latter case a few drops of boiling water 
may be added. 

One square of melted chocolate may be added when the syrup 
is poured on the egg. 

Sugar for frosting is boiled to thread stage or soft ball, and at 
this stage the sugar thermometer registers 238^ F. 

Marshmallow Frosting 

1 c. granulated sugar } c. water 

Boil together without stirring till of the consistency of honey; 
then dip 3 tb. of it and pour on the beaten white of 1 egg. Boil 
rest of syrup until it threads, then pour slowly on the egg. Add 
6 or 8 marshmallows which have been heated over hot water till 
soft. Flavor and beat till thick enough to spread. 

Beaten Frosting 

To the unbeaten whites of 2 eggs add 3 times their measure in 
bulk of XXXX confectioners' sugar. Beat until stiff enough 
to spread on the cake. Flavor to taste. This frosting thickens 
from the beating and will require beating from 20 to 30 minutes. 
It may then be used for ornamental decoration on a cake. 

Chocolate Frosting 

2 squares of Baker's ^ ts. vanilla 
chocolate 1 c. powdered sugar 

J c. milk Yolk of an egg 

Melt the chocolate in the double boiler, add ^ the sugar and the 
milk; add the remaining sugar and the beaten yolk. Cook till 
it thickens, stirring constantly at first. Cool slightly, flavor, and 
spread. 



164 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

PUDDINGS 

Puddings are more wholesome than pastry and should be 
more frequently served. They may be divided into three 
general classes  boiled, baked, and steamed puddings. 

Cottage Pudding 

2 heaping c. flour 1 egg 

3} ts. baking powder } c. sugar 

i ts. salt 3 tb. melted butter 

1 c. milk 

Mix the salt and baking powder with the flour. Add the sugar, 
butter, and milk to the beaten egg and stir into the floiu*. Bake 
in a shallow pan in a quick oven from 20 to 25 m. Serve hot with 
sauce. 

Rice Pudding 

J c. rice i ts. salt 

i c. sugar 1 qt. milk 

Wash rice, mix ingredients, pour into a pudding dish. Bake 
from 2 to 3 h. in a very slow oven at first, then let it brown slightly. 
Serve hot or cold. 

Bread Pudding 

3 c. stale bread crumbs soaked 1 h. in 1 qt. milk. Add to 2 
beaten eggs, 7 c. sugar, ^ ts. salt, i ts. spice and 2 tb. softened 
butter. Stir into the milk. Bake 1 h. in a slow oven. Remove 
from oven, spread with jelly or jam, and cover with a meringue 
made of the beaten whites of 2 eggs and 4 tb. powdered sugar. 
Bake in a slow oven 10 m. until a delicate brown. 

Grated rind and juice of i lemon may be added to the pudding. 

Scalloped Apples 

Put a layer of bread crumbs in a baking dish, then a layer of 
sliced apple, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and grated lemon 
rind, dot with bits of butter. Repeat layers, having crumbs on 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 165 

top with bits of butter to make them brown. Moisten with water. 
Bake 40 m. in moderate oven. Cover at first to prevent crumbs 
from browning too rapidly. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Indian Pudding 

5 c. scalded milk i c. molasses 

I c. Indian meal 1 ts. salt 

i ts. ginger, if liked 

Pour the milk slowly on meal, cook in double boiler 20 m. Add 
molasses, salt, and ginger. Pour into a buttered pudding dish 
and bake 2 hours in a very slow oven. Serve with cream. If 
baked too rapidly it will separate. This may be cooked success- 
fully in a fireless cooker. 

Suet Pudding 

2^ c. flour 1 c. chopped suet, 

1 ts. soda or i c. butter 

i ts. salt 1 c. raisins or currants, 
1 ts. cinnamon chopped 

i ts. nutmeg 1 c. water or milk 

1 c. molasses 

Sift salt, soda, spice with flour, rub in the suet and add raisins. 
Mix milk with molasses and stir it into the dry mixture. Steam 
in a buttered pudding mold 3 h. Serve with sauce. 

Graham Pudding 

i c. butter 1^ c. graham flour 

I c. molasses 7 ts. soda 

i c. milk 1 c. raisins seeded and 
1 egg cut in pieces 

1 ts. salt 

Melt butter, add milk, molasses, well beaten egg, the dry ingre- 
dients mixed and sifted, and raisins; put into buttered mold, 
cover, and steam 2| hours. Serve with sauce. 



166 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Prune Whip 

Wash J lb. prunes. Soak. Cook in a little water till soft. 
Remove stones and rub through a colander. Add f c. sugar. Beat 
the whites of 4 eggs stiff. Add the prunes, a spoonful at a timp. 
Bake in a slow oven till a light brown, about 20 m. Serve with 
whipped cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla, or with soft 
custard. 

Tapioca Cream 

2 tb. pearl tapioca 2 eggs beaten separately 
1 pt. milk i ts. salt 

i c. sugar | ts. vanilla 

Soak tapioca in hot water to cover for 1 h. or more ; add the 
milk and cook in a double boiler till the tapioca is transparent. 
To beaten yolks add sugar and salt. Pour the hot mixture over 
them, return to double boiler, and cook 2 or 3 m. Remove from 
fire, add beaten whites. When cool, flavor. 

Sponge Pudding 

1 tb. butter J ts. baking powder 

i c. flour 3 eggs beaten 

i c. sugar separately 

1 pt. milk 

Mix the sugar and flour, wet in a Uttle cold milk and stir into 
a pint of boihng milk. Cook till thick and smooth, add butter and 
beaten yolks. When cool add baking powder and fold in beaten 
whites. Bake in a pudding dish set in a pan of hot water 25 to 
30 m. Serve with creamy sauce. 

Caramel Custard 

4 c. scalded milk 1 ts. vanilla 

3 or 4 eggs ^ c. sugar 

1 ssp. salt 

Put sugar in an omelet-pan and stir over the fire until it forms 
a light brown S3rrup. Add slowly to the milk. Cook in a double 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS 167 

boiler till the sugar dissolves, pour slowly over the slightly beaten 
eggs. Flavor. Strain into a buttered pudding dish. Set in a 
pan of hot water and bake till a knife inserted will come out clean. 
Egg and milk in combination must be cooked at a low temperature 
or they will separate. 

Add more sugar before baking if not sweet enough. 



Lemon Sauce 



See page 127. 



Vanilla Sauce 

1 c. sugar 1 or 2 tb. butter 

1 c. water 1 egg 

Boil water and sugar together 5 m. Add butter, and when 
melted pour over the egg well beaten. Stir over the fire till it 
thickens slightly. Add i ts. vanilla. If egg is cooked too long, 
it will separate. 

Foamy Sauce 

f c. butter 1 egg 

1 c. powdered sugar J ts. vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, the well-beaten egg and 

vanilla ; beat while heating over hot water till smooth, but do not 

melt the butter. 

Creamy Sauce 

} c. butter 4 tb. cream 

i c. powdered sugar 1 ts. vanilla 

Cream the butter. Add sugar gradually and the cream, drop 

by drop. Set over hot water and beat till smooth and creamy, 

but do not melt the butter. Flavor. 

Yellow Sauce 

Beat 1 egg until very thick. Add gradually J c. powdered 
sugar and beat well with a silver fork. Add 1 tb. melted butter. 
Beat over hot water for about 10 m. Add i ts. vanilla. Serve hot. 



CHAPTER XVII 

MINERAL FOODS  SALADS 

Use of mineral matter in body : 

1. Form bone. 

2. Essential part of protoplasm. 

3. Necessary for body fluids, etc. 

An average man excretes between twenty and thirty grams 
of mineral matter per day. This amount must be supplied 
to the body by food and beverages. The only mineral matter 
which is added directly to our food is common salt, sodimn 
chloride (NaCl), all the others required being found in suffi- 
cient quantity in a well-balanced dietary. We probably 
consume much more common salt than is needed by the 
body, but it has a decided value as a condiment, improving 
the flavor of foods and hence making them digest more 
easily. Mineral matter, as a rule, is found abundantly in 
fresh fruits and vegetables. 

Two of the most important minerals required by the 
body are lime (calcium, Ca) and iron (Fe). The other 
minerals are also of much importance, but are usually sup- 
plied by our foods in sufficient quantity for the needs of the 
body. 

Lime.  Three fourths of the mineral matter of the body 
is calcium phosphate, which is found in the bones, soft tis- 
sues, and in solution in the body fluids. Blood will not clot 
without lime salts, and they are necessary for the beating of 

the heart. 

168 



MINERAL POODS  SALADS 169 

Both organic and inorganic fonns of lime may be assimi- 
lated by the body, even those which are insoluble in water. 
Animals that eat bones probably assimilate some of the 
lime; however, organic lime has greater food value than 
inorganic lime. 

A child must have a sufficient quantity of lime in its food 
or the bones will not grow properly, and general developn 
ment of the body will be arrested. 

Milk is very rich in lime. Lime water is added to milk 
in infant feeding, not to increase the amount of lime, but 
to soften the casein curd so that it may digest more easily. 
Milk is richer in lime than lime water. 

Foods Rich in Lime Foods Poor in Lime 

Milk Meats 

Egg yolk Fish 

Peas, beans, turnips, oranges. Bread 

carrots, parsnips, spinach Polished rice 

Most cereals New process com meal 

Iron.  Iron is found in the body chiefly in the red color- 
ing or hemoglobin of the blood. In this form it acts as an 
oxygen carrier, carrjring oxygen from the lungs to all parts 
of the body. A deficiency of iron in the diet brings on 
anemia and other diseases of deficient oxidation. Chloro- 
phyll grains in plants cannot be produced without iron. If 
plants are grown in solutions free from iron, the leaves are 
colorless, but become green when iron salts are added. 

Iron is found as a constituent part of protein. Milk con- 
tains less iron than any other food, as the young animal is 
bom with about three times more iron than is needed for 
its immediate use. Children kept too long on a milk diet 
become anemic. 



170 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The iron in cereals lies in and near the outer coats or 
bran. Entire wheat flour is thus much richer in iron than 
is fine white flour. The human body readily assimilates 
organic iron or that found in plant foods and meats, but the 
value of medicinal iron tonics is doubtful, as inorganic iron 
does not assimilate readily, if at all. The iron in eggs and 
vegetables is probably assimilated to better advantage than 
that in meats. Herbivorous animals are less liable to anemia 
than are carnivorous animals. 



IRON IN TYPICAL FOOD MATERIALS (H. C. SHERMAN) 

Amotjvt of Iron 

Food in 100 Grams 

Frbsh Substancb 

Beefsteak, all lean 3.85 mm. 

Beefsteak, medium fat 2.2 

Eggs 3.0 

Milk, whole 0.24 

Milk, skimmed 0.25 

Cream (18.5% fat) 0.20 

Commeal 1.15 

Oatmeal 3.7 

Rice, polished 0.7 

Wheat flour 1.5 

Wheat entire grain 5.2 

Beans, lima, dried 7.2 

Beans, navy, dried 6.7 

Beans, string, fresh . 1.6 

Cabbage 0.9 

Com, sweet 0.8 

Peas, dried 5.6 

Potatoes 1.2 

Spinach 3.8 

Turnips 0.6 

Apples 0.3 

Prunes 2.9 

Raisins 3.6 



MINERAL FOODS SALADS 171 

SALADS 

Salads are mixtures of fish, fruits, vegetables or meats, 
with a salad green and some form of salad dressing. The 
food value of salad greens is not high, as they are composed 
largely of water, but they form a valuable part of the diet, 
because of their richness in mineral salts. 

A salad is more or less nutritious according to the ingredi- 
ents used in it. The butter, oil, cream or eggs used in salad 
dressing give it a high heat and energy value. During the 
spring and summer months a salad of fresh green vegetables 
should appear upon the table every day. All salads should 
be served cold and crisp and the dressing should be added 
just before serving. 

The salad served with a dinner of several courses should 
be made of vegetables or fruits and be mixed with a French 
dressing. When the salad forms a main dish of a luncheon 
or supper, it may be made of various combinations of meats, 
vegetables, etc., mixed with a mayonnaise, a cooked, or a 
cream dressing. 

Meat for salad should be freed from skin, gristle, and fat 
and be cut into small cubes. Fish should be freed from 
bones and skin, and the flesh flaked. Vegetables, as a rule, 
should be cut into quarter inch cubes. 

Lettuce.  Lettuce should be carefully washed to remove 
any dirt and bacteria which may cling to it and also small 
green insects which are sometimes found on the under side 
of the leaves. Wash each leaf separately, changing the 
water often. Shake the leaf gently to remove water, then 
place on a clean towel and dry carefully with another towel 
until perfectly dry, but not wilted. 

To freshen lettuce,  Place in a bowl of ice water to which 
has been added 1 tb. vinegar and let stand \ hoiu*. 



172 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



To keep lettuce,  After washing, put lettuce in a pail, 
stem end down, cover closely and set in a cold place. 

To mix salad,  Put alternate layers of salad ingredients 
and dressing in a bowl. Lift from the bottom with a fork 
and spoon and toss lightly until well mixed. 

To marinate a salad,  Cut materials for a salad into 
cubes and pour over them a French dressing. Let stand an 
hour. Drain ; mix salad with any desired dressing as usual. 



MATERIALS THAT MAY BE USED IN SALAD 



Meats 



Fruits 



Greens and Garnishes 



Chioken 




Oranges 




Lettuce 


Veal 




Grapefruit 




Celery 


Roast pork 


Pineapple 




Endive 


Sweetbreads 


Bananas 




Chickery 


Calves* brains 


Malaga grapes 




Water cress 


Fish 




Cherries 




Romaine 


Salmon 




Apples 




Escarole 


Lobster 




Dates 




Radishes 


Shrimp 




Miscellaneous 




Pimentos 


Sardines 




Eggs 




Sweet peppers 


Oysters 




Nuts 




Olives 


White fish 




Cheeses 
Marshmallows 
(with fruit) 




Parsley 






Vegetables 






Potatoes 




Beets 






Cabbage 


(raw) 


Green peas 




Spinach 




Cucumbers (raw) 




Tomatoes (raw) 


Carrots 






String beans 


Asparagus 



Salad dressings are of many varieties, but may be classed 
under the following heads : 

1. Cooked salad dressing. 3. French dressing. 

2. Mayonnaise. 4. Cream dressing. 



MINERAL FOODS ^SALADS 173 

All dressings, with the exception of French dressing, should 
be just thick enough to coat the particles of food with which 
they are mixed ; if too thin they will settle in the bottom of 
the dish ; if too thick, they will not mix well. They should 
be thinned with either sweet or sour cream to the right 
consistency just before serving. Dressings are seasoned witfi 
salt, cayenne, and paprika, but mustard should be used spar- 
ingly, if at all. A small amount of sugar may be added for 
fruit salads, but a dressing for a fish or meat salad should not 
be sweetened. 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

Yolks 4 eggs or 2 whole eggs beaten until very light. Add 2 
tb. vinegar and 2 tb. milk or cream. Set the bowl in a saucepan 
of hot water and cook, stirring continuously until the mixture is 
of the consistency of soft butter. Do not let the water boil around 
it, as the high temperature hardens the albumen on the sides of the 
bowl and tends to make the dressing lumpy. Remove from fire 
and add 3 or 4 tb. butter, 1 ts. salt, and few grains of cayenne. 
When ready to use, thin with cream. 

Mayonnaise 

Put yolks of 1 or 2 eggs on a plate and rub smooth with a silver 
fork. Add olive oil, drop by drop, stirring till well mixed. When 
it thickens, add a few drops of vinegar to thin ; repeat process till 
required amount is made. Season. Lemon juice may be used in 
place of vinegar. 

If the dressing separates in mixing, add the mixture, drop by 
drop, to another yolk of egg. If the dressing is to be made in 
quantity, put the yolks of egg in a bowl and beat in the oil with a 
Dover egg beater. Use yolks of 2 eggs for i pt. oil. When ready 
to use, thin with whipped cream. 



174 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

French Dressing 

I ts. salt 3 tb. olive oil 

J ts. pepper 1 tb. vinegar 

Add oil to the salt and pepper ; stir till seasoning is dissolved ; 
add vinegar and stir till well mixed. 

Whipped Cream Dressing 

i c. whipping cream } ts. salt 

1 tb. vinegar Few grains cayenne or 

1 tb. lemon juice paprika 

Beat cream imtil thick ; add the other ingredients slow;ly. Use 
at once. 

Dressed Lettuce 

Wash and dry lettuce. Serve with French dressing to which 
Roquefort cheese has been added, if desired ; or garnish with balls 
made of cream cheese. Any of the salad dressings may be served 
with lettuce. 

Potato Salad 

Cut cold potatoes into one-fourth inch cubes, sprinkle lightly 
with salt and, if liked, marinate with French dressing. Add chopped 
onion, celery, cucumbers cut in cubes, chopped parsley, pimento, 
etc., to taste. Mix with salad dressing; garnish with radishes, 
shredded lettuce, hard-boiled eggs, etc. 

The dressing for potato salad should be rather thin, as the potato 
absorbs it. 

Cabbage Salad 

Cut the cabbdge in halves, slice very thin ; let soak | hour in 
ice water. Drain well, mix with a salad dressing. Serve at once. 

Egg Salad 

Cook eggs twenty minutes in water just below the boiling 
point. Put in cold water. Remove shells and cut eggs in any 
desired shape. Put on lettuce leaves. Add a spoonful of salad 
dressing. Garnish. 



MINERAL FOODS ^SALADS 175 

Fish Salad 

Prepare fish. Add an equal amount of celery cut in small 
pieces. Mix with a salad dressing and place on lettuce leaves. 
Serve at once. 

Chicken or Any Meat Salad 

Cut chicken or meat in }-inch cubes. Add an equal amoimt 
of celery cut in small pieces. Marinate if desired. Mix with salad 
dressing and put on lettuce leaves or shredded lettuce. Serve at 
once. 

Sandwiches.  The bread for sandwiches should have a 
fine, even texture and should be twenty-four hours old. 
The loaf should be of a size to cut the sandwiches with as 
little waste as possible. All crusts trimmed from the bread 
should be saved for bread crumbs. If a large number of 
sandwiches is to be made, remove all crust from loaf and 
trim it into shape before slicing. Very thin slices of buttered 
bread may be prepared by softening the butter and spread- 
ing on the loaf before slicing. Sandwiches may be kept 
fresh for several hours by wrapping them in slightly damp- 
ened napkins. If for a lunch box, each sandwich should be 
wrapped in paraffin paper. The lunch box should be lined 
with paraffin paper and be divided into compartments with 
pieces of cardboard to hold the different kinds of food. 

Lettuce Sandwiches 

Prepare bread for sandwiches. Spread with salad dressing and 
lay shredded lettuce (which has been washed carefully and dried) 
between the shces. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Chop hard-boiled eggs fine and mix with salad dressing. Spread 
between thin slices of bread. 



176 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Mix cream cheese with mayonnaise and spread between slices 
of bread. Chopped pimentos, olives, nuts, etc., may be added. 

Cheese Filling 

2 tb. butter i ts. salt 

3 tb. com starch Speck cayenne 
1 c. milk 

Make as a white sauce. Cook 10 minutes. Add 1 beaten egg, 
1 c. grated cheese. Cook till cheese is melted. Cool. Spread in 
center of finger rolls and heat rolls in oven just before serving. 
Or spread mixture on roimds of bread, and heat in oven till cheese 
is melted. 

Ham Sandwiches 

Mince ham fine. Season with cayenne and mustard. Moisten 
with cream or melted butter and spread between slices of bread. 

Cheese Wafers 

Sprinkle wafers with grated cheese mixed with a little mustard 
and cayenne. Bake till the cheese melts. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

GELATINE AND FROZEN DESSERTS 

Gelatine is a protein and is classed as an albuminoid. It 
is derived from the collagen of connective tissue, cartilage, 
and bone, which is conyerted into gelatine by boiling with 
water. Unlike albumen and globulin, gelatine is soluble in 
hot water and forms a jelly when cold. 

Although classed as a true protein, gelatine cannot sustain 
life, if it is the only form of protein supplied to the body. 
When gelatine is added to the diet, however, a smaller 
amount of other forms of protein is required to maintain a 
protein equilibrium in the body. 

Commercial gelatine is extracted from the tendons and 
sinews of calves' feet and from the bones, tendons, and clip- 
pings of skin of older animals. It is sold in the form of sheets, 
or is shredded, granulated, or powdered, and put in boxes. 
A box of gelatine usually contains two ounces and will 
stiffen two quarts of jelly. More gelatine should be used 
when fruits are molded in the jelly. Uncooked pineapple 
should not be added to jelly, as it contains an enzyme 
which will liquefy the gelatine; cooking destroys the 
enzyme. 

Gelatine should be first soaked in cold water until soft, 

using 1 c. water to 2 oz. gelatine, and then be dissolved in a 

boiling liquid and allowed to stand without disturbing imtil 

it jellies. 

N 177 



178 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Lemon Jelly 

1 oz. gelatine (} box) } c. lemon juice 

i c. cold water 2J c. boiling water 

1 c. sugar 

Soak gelatine in cold water till soft; add the sugar, lemon 
juice, and the boiling water ; stir until gelatine is dissolved. Strain 
through a cheesecloth wrung out of hot water. Put in mold 
wet in cold water and set in a cold place till firm. 

To Unmold Jelly. Set the mold in a pan of lukewarm water, 
having the water come as high as the jelly. Do not let the jelly 
melt. Place the dish in which the jelly is to be served over the 
mold and invert them both. Shake gently imtil the jelly drops 
from the mold. 

Gelatine has a very low melting point, so the water should not 
be hot, nor the mold left in it too long. 



Jellied Prunes 

} lb. prunes 1 c. sugar 

i box gelatine soaked in i c. lemon juice 

i c. cold water 

Wash prunes and soak for several hours in 2 c. cold water, cook 
in same water till soft ; remove prunes, stone, and cut in quarters. 
To prune water add enough boiling water to make 2 c. Add soaked 
gelatine to boiling mixture, also the sugar and lemon juice, strain, 
add prunes, and pour into mold. Let harden. Stir twice while 
cooling to prevent prunes from settling. Serve with sweetened 
cream. Dried apricots or peaches may be used in the same 
way. 

Apple Compdte 
See page 49. 



GELATINE AND FROZEN DESSERTS 179 

Neapolitan Pudding 

Soak I box gelatine in 1 c. cold water, dissolve in 1 pt. boiling 
water, add  c. sugar, the juice of 1 lemon and 1 orange, and strain 
into 1 pt. preserved strawberries. Pour off part of the clear juice 
and let it begin to stiffen, then add the beaten whites of 2 eggs and 
beat like snow pudding. Put the rest of the mixture into a mold 
and pour the beaten mixture on top. Let stand till hard. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

Snow Pudding 

I box gelatine 1^ c. sugar 

1 c. cold water Juice of 3 lemons 

1 pt. boiling water Whites of 3 eggs 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, add the sugar and lemon juice, 
and pour over them the boiling water. Stir till gelatine and sugar 
are dissolved. Strain. Set in a pan of ice water. When the 
mixture begins to stiffen, beat till smooth, and add the beaten whites. 
Beat till white and foamy all through like a drop batter. Pour 
into a mold wet in cold water. Let stand several hours. Serve 
with soft custard. 

Soft Custard 

1 pt. milk i' c. sugar 

Yolks 3 eggs  ssp. salt 

i ts. vanilla 

Scald the milk and pour it slowly over the beaten yolks and sugar. 
Return to double boiler and cook 2 or 3 m. or till it coats the spoon. 
When cool, flavor. If it separates, set in cold water and beat till 
smooth with a Dover egg beater. 

Bavarian Cream 

1 c. milk i c. sugar 

2 yolks of eggs Pinch of salt 

Cook as a soft custard in a double boiler. While hot, add 
J c. gelatine which has been soaked in  c. cold water. Stir until 



180 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

gelatine is dissolved. Strain through a wire sieve. Let stand 
until the mixture begins to stiffen, then beat it smooth, add 1 ts. 
vanilla and 1 c. cream beaten stiff. Stir slowly until well mixed. 
Pour into mold wet in cold water. Let stand until firm. Various 
flavorings may be added. 

Spanish Cream 

Make as Bavarian Cream, adding the 2 beaten whites of eggs 
in place of the whipped cream. 

Charlotte Russe 

i box gelatine 1 ts. vanilla 

J c. cold water Lady fingers or 
J c. boiling water sponge cake 

i c. powdered sugar 1 pt. cream 

Soak the gelatine in cold water. Chill the cream and whip 
it, skimming off the froth into a bowl set in ice water. Sift the 
sugar over the whipped cream and flavor. Dissolve the gelatine 
in the boiling water and let stand until cool, but do not let it stiffen ; 
strain over the cream. Stir slowly till the mixture is nearly a 
drop batter. If it feels lumpy, remove from ice water and stir till 
smooth. Pour into a mold fined with lady fingers. Keep on ice 
till ready to serve. 

Freezing.  The freezing point of water is 32 F. or 0 C. 
The freezing point of a mixture of salt, ice, and water is 
lower than that of water. When salt and ice are placed in 
the space between the wooden tub of an ice cream freezer 
and the metal can, their freezing point being lower than 
that of the ice alone, the ice melts and draws the heat 
(latent heat) from the cream in the inner can, thus causing 
the cream to freeze. The larger the quantity of salt used, 
the more quickly the mixture will freeze, but too rapid 
freezing makes a coarse-grained ice cream. The mixture 
will freeze more rapidly if the ice is chopped fine. 



GELATINE AND FROZEN DESSERTS 181 

Experiment 76.  Make a mixture of 1 part salt to 3 parts 
ice. Make a mixture of 1 part salt to 2 parts ice. Take temp^era- 
ture. Place a test tube containing water in each of the above 
mixtures ; note time required to freeze the water. 



ICES AND SHERBETS 

Ices and Sherbets are prepared from various fruit juices, 
crushed fruits, or other flavorings which are dissolved in 
water. The frozen mixture will have a smoother texture if 
the sugar used is cooked to a syrup with part of the liquid 
before adding to the fruit. A white, creamy sherbet may 
be made by adding the beaten whites of 1 or 2 eggs to the 
partly frozen mixture. A mixture will lose sweetness and 
flavor when frozen and should be made a little sweeter and 
be more highly flavored than desired, before freezing. 

Suggestions for sherbets : 

Lemon Strawberry 

Orange Raspberry 

Pineapple Juice of cooked cranberries 

Grape juice Mint steeped in water 

Bananas Apricots 

Oranges and lemons Peach 

Fruits should be mashed or grated, or only the juice used. 
If large pieces of fruit are to be used, add when the mixture 
is nearly frozen. 

How to freeze Ice Cream and Ices.  Crush ice fine by 
putting it in a burlap bag and pounding with a wooden 
mallet or hatchet. Put the mixture to be frozen in the can, 
put into the wooden tub and adjust the top, making sure it 
fits perfectly. Put in the ice, allowing three measures of 
ice to one of rock salt. Pound down with a small board. 
Repeat till ice comes nearly to the top of the can. 



182 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The mixture increases in bulk during freezing, so the can 
should be only three fourths full. Turn the crank slowly 
and steadily at first, more rapidly toward the last. Never 
draw off the salt water till the mixture is frozen. When 
freezing is accomplished, remove dasher and with spoon 
pack solidly. Draw off the water, repack freezer, using 
four parts of ice to one of salt. Cover freezer and let stand 
from one to three hours to ripen. 

Pineapple Ice 

1 pt grated or chopped. 1 pt. sugar 

pineapple 3 c. water 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Boil water and sugar 10 m. Cool, add pineapple. Freeze 
according to directions. When frozen to a mush, add the beaten 
whites and finish freezing. Juice and grated rind of 1 or 2 lemons 
may be added to mixture before freezing. 

Lemon Ice 

1 qt. water Grated rind of 2 lemons 

2 c. sugar } c. lemon juice 

Whites of 2 eggs 

Boil the water and sugar 10 m. Add lemon rind and juice. 
Cool and strain. Freeze. When nearly stiff, add the beaten 
whites and finish freezing. 

ICE CREAM 

Ice cream may be prepared from : 

1. Pure cream. 

2. Cream plus milk. 

3. Soft custard plus cream. 

4. Soft custard. 



GELATINE AND FROZEN DESSERTS 183 

Any desired flavoring may be added. 

The sugar used should be heated till dissolved with part 
of the liquid. If part of the cream is whipped, it will im- 
prove the texture. The custard may be thickened with 
com starch, arrowroot, or flour and yolks of eggs, or with 
egg yolks alone. Cook com starch 15 minutes. 

Custard Foundation for Ice Cream 

Thicken 2 c. milk scalded in double boiler, with 2 tb. flour 
wet in cold milk. Add 1 c. sugar, J ts. salt. Cook 5 minutes, 
add beaten yolks 2 eggs, cook 1 minute, cool. When cool, add 
3 c. cream and any desired flavor. Freeze. 

Flavorings which may be added : 

2 tb. vaniUa. 

2 sq. melted chocolate and 1 tb. vanilla. 

Sweetened and crushed fruits. 

Chopped candied fruits, 1 tb. vanilla. 

Dried and pounded macaroons, 1 tb. vanilla, etc. 

Cream Foundation for Ice Cream 

1 qt. cream f c. sugar 

Scald sugar with 1 c. of the cream ; cool, add remainder of cream 
and flavoring. Freeze. 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

To above rule, add 3 pts. berries rubbed through a colander and 
mixed with 1^ c. sugar. 



CHAPTER XIX 

INVALID COOKERY 

Liquid Diet 

1. Milk. 5. Gruels. 

2. Broths, beef tea. 6. Cream soups. 

3. Albumen drinks. 7. Beverages, etc. 

4. Eggnog. 

Light or Soft Diet 

1. Cream soups. 6. Junket. 

2. Soft-cooked eggs. 7. Creamed sweetbreads. 

3. Milk toast. 8. Creamed chicken. 

4. Cereals. 9. Light puddings. 

5. Soft custards. 10. Gelatine desserts, etc. 

Convalescent Diet 

1. Soups. 6. Cooked fruits. 

2. Broiled tender meats and 7. Baked custards. 

fish. 8. Light desserts. 

3. Baked, creamed potatoes. 9. Any simple easily digested 

4. Some light vegetables. ' foods. 

5. Simple salads. 

Foods to Avoid for Invalids and Children 

1. Pastry. 7. Any fried food. 

2. Rich cakes. 8. Hot breads. 

3. Veal. 9. Baked beans.. 

4. Pork. 10. Tea and coffee (for chil- 

5. Sausage. dren). 

6. Lobster. 11. Alcoholic beverages. 

184 



INVALID COOKERY 185 

12. Any highly seasoned or stimulating food or beverage. 

13. All foods difficult of digestion. 

To set an Invalid's Tray.  The tray should be of a size 
to hold easily any dishes placed upon it. Cover it with a 
clean linen doily. In cases of contagious diseases paper 
doilies may be used in serving and afterwards be burned; 
and all dishes should be sterilized in boiling water. Arrange 
the tray in the same relative position as the cover in setting 
a table. Use the daintiest dishes to be obtained. Place a 
single blossom on the tray. 

In serving children a slightly fantastic arrangement of 
foods which will appeal to the imagination will often be the 
means of causing children to take the necessary nourish- 
ment. Never serve large portions of food, or the sight of it 
may take away the appetite. 

LIQUID DIET 

Milk.  As milk forms a clot by the action of the enzyme, 
rennin, as soon as it reaches the stomach, it should be regarded 
as a solid food and not a beverage. When taken, it should be 
sipped slowly that the clots formed may be small and hence 
more easily digested. The digestibility of milk may be in- 
creased by the addition of limewater or a starch gruel. 
(See milk, page 108.) 

Infants have no starch-digesting enz3rmes present in the 
saliva or pancreatic juice until they are about one year old, 
hence cannot digest starchy foods. Any starch given to 
them should be dextrinized with heat or by the action of the 
enzyme diastase present in malt. Starch gruels should be 
dextrinized by the addition of some commercial malt extract 
before being added to milk to be given to children under 
one year of age. 



186 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Milk for invalids may be clotted by the addition of rennin 
in the form of junket tablets. Bacteria grow very rapidly 
in milk, so care should be taken to obtain the purest milk 
possible. If there is the slightest doubt as to the purity of 
the supply, the milk should be sterilized or Pasteurized before 
it is used. 

SteriUzed Milk 

Fill i pt. bottle With milk to within 1} inches of the top ; cork 
with sterile cotton. Stand in a steamer of cold water, having 
the water surround bottles to three-fourths their height. Heat 
water gradually until it nearly reaches the boiling point and keep 
at this temperature for ten minutes or longer. Remove from water 
and cool quickly. 

If the milk is to be Pasteurized, raise the temperature of the 
water to 167 F. and keep at that point for twenty minutes. 

Albumenized Milk 

White of 1 egg 1 c. milk 

Place egg and milk in a covered glass jar. Shake till they 
are thoroughly blended. It may be sweetened and flavored. 
Serve immediately. 

Junket 

1 c. milk i ts. salt 

2 tb. sugar i jimket tablet dissolved 

in 1 ts. water 

Heat milk until lukewarm, 100 F., add sugar and salt, stir 
in the junket quickly. Pour into the dish in which it is to be 
served. Let stand in a warm place until set, then chill and serve 
with cream. 

Meat Broths.  Broths may be made from beef, mutton, 
or chicken. As ordinarily made the food value of broths is 
very low, the albumen and globulin of the meat being coagu- 



INVALID COOKERY 187 

lated by heat and removed by straining, the extractives 
alone remaining in the broth. To prepare meat for broths 
wash it carefully with a wet cloth and remove all fat. 

Beef Tea, No. z 

1 lb. beef from round 1 pt. cold water 

\ ts. salt 

Prepare meat as given in directions for broths and cut in small 
cubes. Put in a fruit jar with the water and salt, and let stand 
J hour. Place in a pan of cold water on a trivet, having the water 
in the pan as high as the contents of the jar. Heat gradually in 
the oven or on top of the stove, not letting the water become hotter 
than 180** F. Keep at this temperature for two hours, strain and 
season. In reheating care should be taken not to coagulate the 
juices. 

Beef Tea, No. 2 

Remove all fat from 1 lb. round steak. Chop meat fine. Add 
1 pt. cold water and \ ts. salt, and let stand in ice box from 1 to 
3 hours. Heat very gently, stirring all the time until it just changes 
color. Pour into wire strainer and press the meat. Season hquid 
with salt and reheat very carefully, not to coagulate the juices. 
Do not remove the brown flakes if they form. 

Mutton Broth 

2 lb. mutton or lamb cut 1 tb. boiled rice 

from forequarter or leg f ts. salt 

2 pts. water 

Prepare meat as for broths. Cut in small pieces. Add water 
and salt. Cook slowly until meat is tender and bones clean. Strain, 
cool, remove every particle of fat. Reheat and add boiled rice. 

Gruels.  Gruels are a liquid preparation of some cereal 
and water or milk. They must be cooked thoroughly that 
the starch may be well hydrated, and then be strained to 



188 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

remove any cellulose. Milk should be added just before 
serving and the gruel then be reheated. Flour, barley, and 
cracker gruels act as astringents; 

Flour Gruel 

2 c. milk 2 tb. flour 

i ts. salt 
Scald milk; thicken with flour wet in cold milk. Cook over 
hot water 30 minutes. Add salt. Serve. 

Oatmeal Gruel 

i c. oatmeal i ts. salt 

3 c. boiling water Milk 

Add oatmeal to boiling water and salt. Cook in double boiler 
2 hours. Strain. Add milk or cream and reheat. 

Cracker Gruel 

2 butter crackers 1 c. milk 

g' uS. saiu 
Roll crackers and add to scalded milk. Cook 5 minutes in 
double boiler. Add salt and serve. 

Albumen Drinks.  Add the white of egg, beaten only 
enough to break the fiber slightly, to any liquid, as milk, 
water, fruit juices, adding sugar to taste. 

Eggnog 

1 egg beaten separately f c. milk 

1 tb. sugar J ts. vanilla or a little 

Few grains salt nutmeg 

Add sugar, salt, milk, flavoring, to beaten yolk. Strain, add 
the beaten white. Stir well before serving. 

Apple Water 

1 large sour apple 2 ts. sugar 

1 c. boiling water Lemon to taste 



INVALID COOKERY 189 

Wipe and core apple. Put sugar in center and bake till tender ; 
mash. Pour on the water, let stand  hour, and strain. Add 
lemon juice. Used as a cooling drink for fever patients. 

Lemonade 

i lemon. | glass water 2 tb. sugar 

Add sugar and water to the lemon. Soda water, Apollinaris, 
or Seltzer water may be used. 

All fruit drinks are' improved if sweetened with syrup instead 
of sugar. 

Syrup for Fruit Beverages 

Boil 1 c. sugar and 1 c. water for 10 minutes. Cool, bottle, and 
use as desired. 

Flaxseed Lemonade 

2 tb. whole flaxseed Lemon juice 

1 pt. boiling water Sugar 

Pick over and wash flaxseed, add water, and cook one hour, 
keeping just below the boiling point. Strain, add lemon and sugar 
to taste. Add more water if too thick. 

Good in kidney troubles and also soothing to the throat in 
bronchial affections. 

LIGHT DIET 

Toast.  Bread for toast should be at least 24 hours old. It 
is toasted to extract moisture, to dextrinize the starch, and to 
make it more palatable and digestible. The slices should be 
cut thin and toasted with a steady, even heat to evaporate 
the moisture and brown the slice without burning it. Serve 
at once. 

Water Toast 

Toast 2 slices of bread until very dry and a light brown. Have 
1 pt. boiling water in a shallow pan, add 1 ts. salt. Dip the toast 
quickly into the water, remove to a hot dish, spread with butter, 
and serve very hot. 



190 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

Milk Toast 

Toast 2 slices of bread. Scald i c. milk, add J tb. butter, 
i ts. salt, pour over the toast. Serve very hot. 

Cream Toast 

Thicken J c. milk with 1 tb. flour wet in cold milk. Cook 
over hot water 20 minutes, add i tb. butter and J ts. salt. Pour 
over 2 or 3 slices of toast. Serve very hot. 

Broiled Beef Cakes 

Scrape round steak fine. Season with salt and pepper. Make 
into small flat cakes and broil over a clear Are; or heat a frying 
pan very hot, rub it over with butter, and cook the cakes two or 
three minutes, browning on both sides. 

Lemon Cream 

2 eggs 2 tb. sugar 

Juice and grated rind of } lemon 

Beat the yolks very light, add sugar and lemon, and place the 
bowl in a dish of boiling water on the fire. Stir till the mixture 
begins to stiffen, then add the beaten whites and stir two minutes 
longer, or till the whole resembles very thick cream ; remove from 
the fire and let cool. Serve in small glass dishes. 

Orange Cream 

Prepare as above, using orange juice in place of lemon. 
For other recipes for Invalid Cookery see recipes under various 
headings. 



CHAPTER XX 

TABLE SERVICE 

In setting the table, arrange all dishes with system; 
never place them carelessly upon the table. An asbestos 
covering may be placed on the table to prevent warm dishes 
from injuring its polish. Cover the table with a felt or 
covering of canton flannel, or even with an old but clean 
tablecloth; over this, place the tablecloth, having the 
creases straight. Put a centerpiece of linen on the table- 
cloth, and in the center of this place a vase of flowers or a 
small growing plant. 

See that the vinegar and oil cruets, salt and pepper bottles 
are filled and wiped clean. Plan for all the dishes and silver 
thajb will be required during the meal, putting them in their 
proper places, thus avoiding confusion in serving. 

Lay a *' service " plate for each person. Do not allow 
the " cover " (space in front of each person) to be without a 
plate until just before the dessert. At the right of the plate, 
place the knives, soup spoon, and oyster fork. Place the 
glass above the knives, a little to right. At the left of the 
plate, place the forks, small spoons, and napkin. Above the 
forks, place the bread and butter plate with a butter spreader 
lying across it. Place carving knife and fork and table 
spoons to the right of person who is to serve. 

All dishes that are to be heated should be placed in a 
warming oven. On a side table, place all other dishes that 
will be needed during the meal. 

191 



192 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



For breakfast, arrange the coffeepot, sugar, creamer, cups, 
and saucers in a semicircle in front of the hostess, placing 
each cup in its saucer on the table at the left. The cereal 
dishes should be placed at the left of the one who is to serve 
the cereal. 

TABLE SETTING 
Individual Cover 




1. * Service " or " place " plate. 3. Soup spoon. 

2. Knife. 4. Tea spoons. 

5. Cup and saucer (to be placed here during meal). 

6. Tumbler. 8. Forks. 

7. Bread and butter plate. 9. Napkin. 



In serving, the waitress should keep in her hand a large 
folded napkin for handling all dishes, using a tray only for 
carrying small dishes. Put a linen doily on all trays and 
on dishes to hold all breadstuffs and cakes, and on the 
plates under the finger bowls. 

When the meal is ready, put the butter on the table and 
fill the glasses with cold water. Announce the meal by say- 
ing, '* Dinner (or whatever meal it is) is served." 



TABLE SERVICE 193 

Stand at the left of the person who is serving and take 
with the napkin each plate as it is served, carrying to the 
person for whom it is intended. If it is a soup plate, set it 
down upon the service plate. If it is the plate of the meat 
course, remove the service plate and set the other plate in 
its place. Set dishes down and remove them from the right 
of the person whom you are serving ; pass to the left any dish 
from which they are to serve themselves, holding the dish 
low and firmly. 

See that each person is kept supplied with bread, and that 
the glasses are filled. When each course is finished, remove 
the plates, one at a time, and then the platter, the large 
dishes, and all other dishes not needed for the following 
courses. Do not pile the dishes upon each other in removing 
them. 

Before the dessert is served, brush the crumbs from the 
table using a crumb scraper, or brush the crumbs with a folded 
napkin to a plate. After the last course, remove the plates 
and place a finger bowl in front of each person. Set the 
finger bowl on a plate with a doily and fill one-third full of 
fresh water. Put a half slice of lemon in the bowl. 

Do not let the table become disordered during a meal. 
Move quietly and be alert to anticipate every need of the 
guests. 

When you are hostess, as well as cook and waitress, leave 
the table quietly when necessary, removing dishes and bring- 
ing others as needed. Special care must be taken that all 
is in readiness before sitting down at the table. 

When the meal is over, set the chairs in place and brush 
up all crumbs from the floor before removing dishes. Re- 
move table dishes to pantry or kitchen. Put away any 
food that remains, on dishes kept for that purpose. Scrape 
all dishes well, using a scraper with a rubber edge, or a crust 



194 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

of bread. Pile dishes neatly in place, putting those of a 
size together. 

Brush crumbs from tablecloth, fold in its creases, and put 
away. Put the dining room in order before washing the 
dishes. 

Wash the dishes with hot soapy water, rinse with hot 
water, and wipe with dry towels until perfectly dry. Put 
the dishes on a tray and carry to their proper places. 

Breakfast is usually a simple meal and is served in a man- 
ner to suit the needs of the individual family, but if a course 
breakfast is desired, serve it in the following order : 

1. Fruit. 

2. Cereal with cream or top milk. 

3. Simple meat or egg dish. 
Rolls, toast, etc. 
CoflFee or some beverage. 

4. Griddle cakes or waffles and syrup. 

Note.  Students make list of dishes that may be served for 
breakfast or "breakfast possibilities." Write breakfast menus for 
different seasons of the year, estimating cost. Cook and serve a 
breakfast. 

Order of Courses for a Formal Dinner.  1. Canapes. 

2. Raw oysters or clams, served on the half shell on 

crushed ice with lemon and grated horseradish. 
Wafers. 

3. Soup. Crackers, croutons, or toast sticks. 

4. Fish. Potatoes (boiled, mashed, or fried). Sliced cu- 

cmnbers. Brown bread. 

5. Meat Course. Roast, two vegetables, rolls or bread, 

jelly, pickles, etc. 

6. Frozen water ice. 

7. Salad. Crackers, or toasted cheese rounds, cheese 

balls, etc. 



TABLE SERVICE . 195 

8. Dessert. 

9. Crackers and cheese. 
10. CoflFee. 

Order of Courses for a Family Dinner. 

1. Soup. 

2. Meat, etc. 

3. Salad. 

4. Dessert. 

A formal dinner is not often served in the ordinary house- 
hold, but if a dinner of fewer courses is served, they are ar- 
ranged in the same relative order as in a formal dinner, 

Note.  Students write list of "dinner possibilities/' arranging 
them under "soup," "fish," etc. Write dinner menus for family 
dinners for different seasons of the year, estimating cost. Cook and 
serve a dinner. 

Luncheon.  A luncheon menu is similar to a dinner menu, 
with the exception that a fruit is often served first, and a 
lighter meat dish is served in place of a roast. 

For a family luncheon or supper some one hot nutritious 
dish is served with a light salad, fruit, etc. 

Note.  Each class is to serve in turn a breakfast, luncheon, 
and dinner, planning menus and estimating cost. 



CHAPTER XXI 

DIET AND NUTRITION 

The amount of food required by an individual will neces- 
sarily vary with the age, occupation, and temperament of 
the individual, and the climate in which he lives. However, 
by many series of experiments and studies of diets, certain 
definite standards of the amount of food needed under vari- 
ous conditions have been established and form a guide which 
may be profitably followed. The total food requirement for 
a given time is spoken of as a dietary. 

The food must furnish the requisite amount of heat and 
energy needed by the body under various conditions, and 
also furnish material for growth of new cells and repair for 
those that are constantly breaking down. 

Heat and Energy Requirement.  Foods which contain 
carbon and hydrogen in a form in which they can be oxidized 
by the body yield heat and other forms of energy to the 
body. The fuel value of a food is estimated by the amount 
of heat it will give when oxidized, and is measured by a heat 
unit called a calorie. 

A calorie is the amount of heat required to raise 1 pound 
of water 4 F., or 1 kilogram of water 1 C. 

The body will require varying amounts of heat and energy 
under diflferent conditions. 

Man sleeping requires 65 calories per hour 

Man sitting at rest requires .... 100 calories per hour 
Man at light muscular work requires 170 calories per hour 

196 



DIET AND NUTRITION 197 

Man at active muscular work requires 290 calories per hour 
Man at severe muscular work requires 450 calories per hour 
Man at very severe muscular work 

requires 600 calories per hour 

(Atwater and Benedict) 

FOOD REQUIREMENT AS MODIFIED BY AGE AND SEX 

A woman requires . . .8 amoimt of food needed by a man 

Boy 14 to 17 years . .8 amount of food needed by a man 

Children 10 to 13 years .6 amoimt of food needed by a man 

Children 6 to 9 years .5 amount of food needed by a man 

Children 2 to 5 years .4 amoimt of food needed by a man 

Less than 2 years . . .3 amount of food needed by a man 

APPROXIMATE FOOD REQUIREMENT FOR ONE DAY 

(H. C. SHERMAN) 

Man doing light muscular work . . 3000 to 3500 calories 

Woman doing light muscular work . 2700 calories 

Boy 14 to 17 years 2500 to 3000 calories 

Giri 14 to 17 years 2200 to 2600 calories 

Children 10 to 13 years 1800 to 2200 calories 

Children 6 to 9 years 1400 to 2000 calories 

Children 2 to 5 years 1200 to 1500 calories 

Children 1 to 2 years 900 to 1200 calories 

Protein Requirement.  The cells of the body are con- 
stantly breaking down and in the growing body new cells 
are forming, hence food must furnish material for growth 
and repair. 

As the cells contain nitrogen, a food which contains nitro- 
gen in a form in which the body can assimilate it must be 
furnished. Protein foods contain 16 per cent nitrogen and 
are the only foods which do contain it, so they are absolutely 
necessary for the body. 



198 DOMESTIC SCIENCE 

The carbon and hydrogen of protem are first split oflf by 
the body and oxidized, yielding heat and energy before the 
nitrogen is available for tissue building. The broken-down, 
protein of the cells leaves the body in the form of urea and 
other compounds excreted by the kidneys. The amount of 
protein thus lost to the body each day must be replaced by 
protein foods in order that the body may maintain a protein 
equilibrimn. The amount required is variously estimated 
by diflferent authorities. However, as a general estimate, 
about 10 to 12 per cent of the total energy requirement should 
be furnished by protein foods. Thus in a dietary requiring 
3000 calories per day, from 300 to 360 calories should be 
furnished by protein foods. As each gram of protein fur- 
nishes 4 calories, the total amount required would be from 
75 to 90 grams. 

The average American dietary is very high in protein 
content, furnishing about 125 grams (about 4 ounces) of 
protein per day. Protein foods not required for cell growth 
and repair are not stored in the body, but are eliminated by 
the kidneys; hence an increased protein diet means in- 
creased protein elimination. 

Note.  Students compute food value of amount of common 
foodstuffs obtained for ten cents. Compute dietaries of amount 
of food required by persons of various ages and occupations, by 
the Percentage Composition Method, estimating cost. 



DIET AND NUTRITION 



199 



PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION METHOD 

Dietary for Man doing Light Muscular Work 

Calorie Requirement, 3000 to 3500 calories. 
Protein Requirement, 300 to 420 calories. 



Food 



Breakfast 

Banana 

Oatmeal 

Milk . 

Eggs . 

Ham 

Bread . 

Butter . 

Coffee . 

Sugar . 
Dinner 

Beef, round 

Cabbage 

Com 

Potatoes 

Bread . 

Butter . 

Sugar . 

Dessert, as cake 

Walnuts . . 
Supper 

Cream Celery Soup 

Cream Crackers 

Bread . 

Butter . 

Cheese 

Buttermilk 

Apples . 

Cake . 

Total 





Protbin 


Fats 


Carboht- 


Amount 


Per Cent 
OF Lb. 


Feb Cent 
OF Lb. 


DBATES 

Per Cent 
OF Lb. 


ilb. 


0.2 


0.1 


3.5 


1 oz. 


1.0 


0.4 


4.1 


Jib. 


1.1 


1.3 


1.6 


ilb. 


3.2 


2.3 




1 oz. 


0.8 


2.0 




Alb. 


0.7 


0.1 


4.4 


J oz. 




2.6 




1 cup 


 






1 oz. 






6.2 


2 oz. 


2.3 


1.6 




4 oz. 


0.3 




1.2 


2 oz. 


0.3 


0.1 


2.4 


8 oz. 


0.9 


0.05 


7.3 


ilb. 


1.5 


0.2 


8.8 


i oz. 




2.6 




1 oz. 






6.2 . 


2 oz. 


0.7 


1.1 


7.9 


Alb. 


0.5 


2.2 


0.5 


8 oz. 


1.0 


1.4. 


2.5 


loz. 


0.6 


0.7 


4.3 


ilb. 


1.5 


0.2 


8.8 


i oz. 




2.6 


 


1 oz. 


1.5 


2.1 


0.1 


8 oz. 


1.5 


0.2 


2.4 


12 oz. 


0.2 


0.2 


8.1 


2 oz. 


0.7 


1.1 


7.9 




20.5 


25.15 


88.2 



Calories 
Furnishei> 



65.0 
112.5 
103.3+ 
158.7+ 
102.1+ 
100.0 
106.5 

109.3 

111.2+ 
28.7+ 
55.0 
147.5 
200.0 
106.5 
109.3 
203.7 
104.1 

117.5 
120.3 
200.0 
106.5 
117.8- 
80.0 
142.5 
203.7 

3002.7 



200 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF FOODS 

Percentage Composition 

Bulletin 142, U. S. Dept. Agriculture. 



Food Matebialb as 
pubchasxd 


Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 

Per 
Ct 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 

Per 
Ct 


No. OF 
Calories 
per T^b. 


Animal Food 


PerCt. 


PerCt. 


Per Ct. 


Per Ct. 




Porterhouse steak 








V-/ v 




V/v* 




12.7 


52.4 


19.1 


17.9 




0.8 


1100 


Loin .... 


13.3 


52.5 


16.1 


17.5 




0.9 


1025 


Ribs .... 


20.8 


43.8 


13.9 


21.2 




0.7 


1135 


1^'lank .... 


10.2 


54.0 


17.0 


19.0 




0.7 


1105 


Round .... 


7.2 


60.7 


19.0 


12.8 




1.0 


890 


Veal 
















Breast .... 


21.3 


52.0 


15.4 


11.0 




0.8 


745 


Leg 


14.2 


60.1 


15.5 


7.9 




0.9 


625 


Mutton 
















Leg, hind . . . 


18.4 


51.2 


15.1 


14.7 




0.8 


890 


Loin chops . . 


16.0 


42.0 


13.5 


28.3 




0.7 


1415 


Flank .... 


9.9 


39.0 


13.8 


36.9 




0.6 


1770 


Lamb 
















Breast .... 


19.1 


45.5 


15.4 


19.1 




0.8 


1075 


Leg, hind . . . 


17.4 


52.9 


15.9 


13.6 




0.9 


860 


Pork, fresh 
















Ham, hind leg . 


10.7 


48.0 


13.5 


25.9 




0.8 


1320 


Loin chops . . 


19.7 


41.8 


13.4 


24.2 




0.8 


1245 


Ham, smoked 


13.6 


34.8 


14.2 


33.4 




4.2 


1635 


Salt pork . . . 




7.9 


1.9 


86.2 




3.9 


3555 


Bacon .... 


7.7 


17.4 


9.1 


62.2 




4.1 


2715 


Chicken, fowls . 


25.9 


47.1 


13.7 


12.3 




0.7 


765 


Turkey . . . 


22.7 


42.4 


16.1 


18.4 




0.8 


1060 


Fish 
















Cod, fresh, dressed 


29.9 


58.5 


11.1 


0.2 




0.8 


220 


Perch, dressed . 


35.1 


50.7 


12.8 


0.7 




0.9 


275 


Cod, salt . . . 


24.9 


40.2 


16.0 


0.4 




18.5 


325 


Salmon, canned . 




63.5 


21.8 


12.1 




2.6 


915 


Sardines . . . 


5.0 


53.6 


23.7 


12.1 




5.3 


950 


Oysters, solids . 


 


88.3 


6.0 










Eggs .... 


11.2 


65.5 


13.1 


9.3 




0.9 


635 


Butter .... 




11.0 


1.0 


85.0 




3.0 


3410 


Milk, whole . . 




87.0 


3.3 


4.0 


5.0 


0.7 


310 


Milk, skim . . 




90.5 


3.4 


0.3 


5.1 


0.7 


165 


Buttermilk . . 




91.0 


3.0 


0.5 


4.8 


0.7 


160 


Cream .... 




74.0 


2.5 


18.5 


4.5 


0.5 


865 


Cheese .... 




34.2 


25.9 


33.7 


2.4 


3.8 


1885 



DIET AND NUTRITION 



201 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF FOODS  Continued 



Food Matebialb as 
pubchabbd 


Rbfubb 


Water 


Pbotbin 


Fat 

Per 
Ct. 


Cabbo- 
htdbatxb 


Abh 

Per 
Ct. 


No. OF 
Calobieb 

PEB TiB. 




PerCt. 


PerCt. 


Per Ct. 


Per Ct. 




Vegetable Foods 












Entire wheat flour 




11.4 


13.8 


1.9 


71.9 


1.0 


1650 


Graham flour 




11.3 


13.3 


2.2 


71.4 


1.8 


1645 


Wheat flour, high 
















grade and me- 
















dium .... 




12.0 


11.4 


1.0 


75.1 


0.5 


1635 


Macaroni . . . 




10.3 


13.4 


0.9 


74.1 


1.3 


1645 


Corn meal . . . 




12.5 


9.2 


1.9 


75.4 


1.0 


1635 


Oat breakfast 
















food .... 


 


7.7 


16.7 


7.3 


66.2 


2.1 


1800 


Rice .... 




12.3 


8.0 


0.3 


79.0 


0.4 


1620 


White bread . . 




35.3 


9.2 


1.3 


53.1 


1.1 


1200 


Graham bread . 




35.7 


8.9 


1.8 


52.1 


1.5 


1195 


Cake .... 




19.9 


6.3 


9.0 


63.3 


1.5 


1630 


Cream crackers . 




6.8 


9.7 


12.1 


69.7 


1.7 


1925 


StigarSf etc. 
















Molasses . . . 










70.0 




1225 


Candy .... 










96.0 




1680 


Honey .... 










81.0 




1420 


Sugar, granulated 










100.0 




1750 


Maple syrup . .. 










71.4 




1250 


Vegetables 
















Beans, dried . . 




12.6 


22.5 


1.8 


59.6 


3.5 


1520 


Beans, strin**, 
















fresh .... 


7.0 


83.0 


2.1 


0.3 


6.9 


0.7 


170 


Beets .... 


20.0 


70.0 


1.3 


0.1 


7.7 


0.9 


160 


Cabbage . . . 


15.0 


77.7 


1.4 


0.2 


4.8 


0.9 


115 


Celery . . . . 


20.0 


75.6 


0.9 


0.1 


2.6 


0.8 


65 


Com, green, edible 
















portion . . . 




75.4 


3.1 


1.1 


19.7 


0.7 


440 


Cucumbers . . 


15.0 


81.0 


0.7 


0.2 


2.6 


0.4 


65 


Lettuce . . . 


15.0 


80.5 


1.0 


0.2 


2.5 


0.8 


65 


Onions .... 


10.0 


78.9 


1.4 


0.3 


8.9 


0.5 


190 


Mushrooms . . 




88.1 


3.5 


0.4 


6.8 


1.2 


185 


Peas, dried . . 




9.5 


24.6 


1.0 


62.0 


2.9 


1565 


Peas, fresh. 
















shelled . . . 




74.6 


7.0 


0.5 


16.9 


1.0 


440 


Potatoes . . . 


20.0 


62.6 


1.8 


0.1 


14.7 


0.8 


295 


Spinach . . . 




92.3 


2.1 


0.3 


3.2 


2.1 


95 


Tomatoes . . . 




94.3 


0.9 


0.4 


3.9 


0.5 


100 


Turnips . . . 


30.0 


62.7 


0.9 


0.1 


5.7 


0.6 


120 



202 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



AVERAGE COMPOSITION OF POODS Continued 



Food Matbrials as 

PUBCHABED 


Refuse 


Water 


Protein 


Fat 

Per 
ct. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 


Ash 

Per 
ct. 


No. op 

Calories 

per Lb. 




Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Per ct. 


Perct. 




Canned Vegetables 












Baked beans . . 




68.9 


6.9 


2.5 


19.6 


2.1 


555 


Peas, green . . 




85.3 


3.6 


0.2 


9.8 


1.1 


235 


Corn, green . . 




76.1 


2.8 


1.2 


19.0 


0.9 


430 


Fruits f etc., fresh 
















Apples .... 


25.0 


63.3 


0.3 


0.3 


10.8 


0.3 


190 


Bananas . . . 


35.0 


48.9 


0.8 


0.4 


14.3 


0.6 


260 


Grapes .... 


25.0 


58.0 


1.0 


1.2 


14.4 


0.4 


295 


Oranges . . . 


27.0 


63.4 


0.6 


0.1 


8.5 


0.4 


150 


Strawberries . . 


5.0 


85.9 


0.9 


0.6 


7.0 


0.6 


150 


Watermelon . . 


59.4 


37.5 


0.2 


0.1 


2.7 


0.1 


50 


Fruits, dried 
















Apples .... 




28.1 












Dates .... 


10.0 


13.8 


1.9 


2.5 


70.6 


1.2 


1275 


Figs .... 




18.8 


4.3 


0.3 


74.2 


2.4 


1280 


Nuts 
















Almonds . . . 


45.0 


2.7 


11.5 


30.2 


95 


1.1 


1515 


Cocoanuts . . 


48.8 


7.2 


2.9 


25.9 


14.3 


0.9 


1295 


Hickory nuts 


62.2 


1.4 


5.8 


25. 


4.3 


0.8 


1145 


Peanuts . . . 


24.5 


6.9 


19.5 


29.1 


18.5 


1.5 


1775 


Miscellaneous 
















Chocolate . . . 




5.9 


12.9 


48.7 


30.3 


2.2 


5625 


Cocoa, powdered 

 




4.6 


21.6 


28.9 


37.7 


7.2 


2160 



THE *'100 CALORIE PORTION" METHOD 

To make the methods of determining food value more 
graphic and more easily ascertained in everyday life, tables 
have been prepared stating the weight of various foods re- 
quired to furnish " 100 calories," also stating their approxi- 
mate bulk; these are called '^ standard" or "100 calorie" 
portions. 



DIET AND NUTRITION 203 

Examples :  Small glass of whole milk furnishes 100 cal- 
ories. 
1 large egg furnishes 100 calories. 
1 ordinary pat of butter furnishes 100 calories. 

This method makes it possible to determine roughly the 
amoimt of heat and other forms of energy furnished in the 
daily diet. 

Note.  Student weigh out 100 calorie portions of various foods 
to train the eye to estimate quickly the approximate values of foods. 
(See table of 100 calorie portions.) 

TO FIND "100 CALORIE PORTIONS" FROM PERCENT- 
AGE COMPOSITION TABLE (H. C. SHERMAN) 

The number of oxmces in a pound (16 oz.) is lo the num- 
ber of calories in any given food as x is to 100 (calorie 
portion). 

Example ;  (Milk 325 caloric to 1 poimd) 

16 (oz.):325::x: 100 = 4.9 
Hence 4.9 oz. of milk will yield upon oxidation 100 calories. 

Note.  Students compute 100 calorie portions of various foods 
from "Percentage Composition of Food," comparing results with 
table of " 100 Calorie Portions." Compute dietaries of amount 
of food required by persons of various ages and occupations, by 100 
Calorie Portion Method, estimating cost. Cook and serve a dinner 
or luncheon, serving the food in 100 calorie portions. 



204 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



100-CALORIE PORTION METHOD 

Dietary for Man doing Light Muscular Work 

Total calorie requirement 3000 to 3500 calories. 

Protein requirement, 12% total calories 360 to 420 calories. 



Food 



Breakfast 
Prunes . . 
Oat meal 

MUk . . . 
Eggs . . . 
Ham, cooked 

Bread . . 

Butter . . 

Coffee . . 

Sugar . . 
Dinner 

Beef, round 

Cabbage 

Com . . 

Potatoes, 
mashed 

Bread 

Butter 

Pickles 

Tea . 

Sugar 

Apple pis 

Walnuts 
Suvver 

Bean soup 

Crackers 

Cheese . 

Bread 

Butter 

Buttermilk 

Baked apples 

Gingerbread 

Total . . 



Amount 



1} large 

serving 
Small glass 

2 large 
Small serv- 
ing 

1 slice 
1 pat 

3 teaspoons 

1 serving 

3} oz. 

1 side dish 

1 serving 

2 slices 
1 pat 
1.4 oz. 

3 teaspoons 
1 piece 

6 

1 large plate 
3 Uneeda 
li-in. cube 

2 slices 
1 pat 
1} glass 
3.3 oz. 

1 square 



Pbotbin 


Fatb 


Carbo- 


Calories 


Calories 


hydrates 
Calories 


3 





97 


18 





75 


19 


52 


29 


64 


136 


 


14 


86 


^__ 


13 


6 


81 


0.5 


99.5 




















100 


90 


10 




10 


4 


36 


13 


10 


77 


10 


25 


65 


26 


12 


162 


0.5 


99.5 





1.8 


1.5 


6.7 

















100 


15 


96 


189 


10 


83 


7 


20 


20 


60 


9.4 


20 


70.6 


25 


73 


2 


26 


12 


162 


0.5 


99.5 





34 


12 


54 


2 


5 


93 


12 


46 


142 


436.7 


1015 


1608.3 



Total 
Calories 



100 

100 
100 
200 

100 
100 
100 

100 

100 

50 

100 

100 
200 
100 
10 

100 
300 
100 

100 
100 
100 
200 
100 
100 
100 
200 

3060 



DIET AND NUTRITION 



205 



TABLE OF 100-CALORIE PORTIONS 

Food Values 

"Food and Dietetics," Norton^ Published by American School of 

Home Economics, Chicago 





Portion Con- 






Pro- 




Car- 


Food 


taining 100 
Calories (app.) 


Grams 


Ounces 


TEIN 


Fat 


bohy- 
drates 


Cooked Meats 














Beef, round, boiled, fat 


Small serving 


36 


1.3 


40 


60 





Beef, roimd, boiled. 














lean 


Large serving 


62 


2.2 


90 


10 





Lamb chops, boiled 


1 small chop 


27 


0.96 


24 


76 





Lamb, leg, roasted 


Ordinary serving 


50 


1.8 


40 


60 





Ham, boiled, fat 


Small serving 


20.5 


0.73 


14 


86 





Veal, leg, boiled . . 


Small serving 


67.5 


2.4 


73 


27 





Uncooked Meats, Edible 














Portion 














Beef loin, lean . . 


Ordinary serving 


50 


1.8 


40 


60 





Porterhouse steak 


Small serving 


36 


1.3 


32 


68 





Sirloin steak . . . 


Small serving 


40 


1.4 


31 


69 





Beef ribs .... 


Ordinary serving 


52 


1.8 


42 


58 





Beef, roimd . . . 


Ordinary serving 


63 


2.2 


54 


46 





Chicken, broilers 


Large serving 


90 


3.2 


79 


21 





Liver, veal . . . 


2 small servings 


79 


2.8 


61 


39 





Mutton, leg . . . 


Ordinary serving 


50 


1.8 


41 


59 





Pork chops, loin 


Very small serving 


27 


0.97 


18 


82 





Turkey 


2 small servings  


33 


1.2 


29 


71 





Vegetables 














Asparagiis, cooked . 




206 


7.19 


18 


63 


19 


Baked beans, canned 


Small side dish 


75 


2.66 


21 


18 


61 


Beans, string, cooked 


5 servings 


480 


16.66 


15 


48 


37 


Beets, cooked . . 


3 servings 


245 


8.7 


2 


23 


75 


Cabbage .... 




310 


11.0 


20 


8 


72 


Carrots, fresh . . 




215 


7.6 


10 


8 


82 


Cauliflower (as pur- 














chased) .... 




312 


11.0 


23 


15 


62 


Celery (edible portion) 




540 


19.0 


24 


5 


71 


Corn, cooked . . . 


One side dish 


99 


3.5 


13 


10 


77 


Cucumbers (edible 














portion) .... 




565 


20.0 


18 


10 


72 


Lettuce (edible por- 














tion) 




505 


18.0 


25 


14 


61 


Mushrooms (as pur- 














chased) .... 




215 


7.6 


31 


8 


61 


Onions, cooked . . 


2 large servings 


240 


8.4 


12 


40 


48 


Parsnips, cooked 




163 


5.84 


10 


34 


56 


Peas, green, cooked 


One serving 


85 


3.0 


23 


27 


50 


Potatoes, baked . . 


One good-sized 


86 


3.05 


11 


1 


88 



206 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE 



TABLE OP 100-CALORIE PORTIONS  Contint*ed 





PoBTiON Con- 






Pro- 




Car- 


Food 


taining 100 


Grams 


Ounces 


Fat 


bohy- 




Calobies (app.) 






TBIN 




drates 


Potstoee, mashed 


One serving 


89 


3.14 


10 


25 


65 


Radishes (as pur- 














chased) .... 




480 


17.0 


18 


23 


79 


Rhubarb (edible part) 




430 


15.0 


10 


27 


63 


Spinach, cooked . . 


2 ordinary servings 


174 


6.1 


15 


66 


19 


Tomatoes, canned . 




431 


15.2 


21 


7 


72 


Turnips (edible part) 


2 large servings 


246 


8.7 


13 


4 


83 


Fruita, dried 














Apples 




34 


1.2 


3 


7 


90 


Dates (edible part) . 


3 large servings 


28 


0.99 


2 


7 


91 


Figs (edible part) . 


1 large serving 


31 


1.1 


5 





95 


Prunes (as purchased) 


3 


38 


1.35 


3 





97 


Raisins 


25 


28 


1.0 


3 


9 


88 


Fruitt, fresh or cooked 














Apples (as purchased) 


2 


206 


7.3 


3 


7 


90 


Apples, baked . . 




94 


3,3 


2 


5 


93 


Bananas (edible part) 


1 large 


100 


3.5 


5 


5 


90 


Cantaloupe . . . 




243 


8.6 


6 





94 


Grapes (as purchased) 




136 


4.8 


5 


15 


80 


Oranges (as pur- 


 












chased) .... 


1 large 


270 


9.4 


6 


3 


91 


Peaches (as pur- 














chased) .... 


3 ordinary 


290 


10.0 


7 


2 


91 


Strawberries . . . 


2 servings 


260 


9.1 


10 


15 


75 


Watermelon . . . 




760 


27.0 


6 


6 


88 


Dairy Prodiicts 














Butter 


Ordinary pat 


12.5 


0.44 


0.5 


99.5 





Buttermilk . . . 


li glass 


275 


9.7 


34 


12 


54 


Cheese, American . 


1) cubic inch 


22 


0.77 


25 


73 


2 


Cream 


i ordinary glass 


49 


1.7 


5 


86 


9 


Milk, skimmed . . 


li glass 


255 


9.4 


37 


7 


56 


Milk, whole . . . 


Small glass 


140 


4.9 


19 


52 


29 


Cakes, Pastries, etc. 














Cake, chocolate layer 


i ordinary piece 


28 


0.98 


7 


22 


71 


Cake, gingerbread . 


i ordinary piece 


27 


0.96 


6 


23 


71 


Custard .... 


Ordinary cup 


122 


4.29 


26 


56 


18 


Doughnuts . . . 


i doughnut 


23 


0.8 


6 


45 


49 


Pie, apple .... 


i piece 


38 


1.3 


5 


32 


63 


Pudding, cream rice 


Small serving 


75 


2.65 


8 


13 


79 


Tapioca, cooked . . 


Ordinary serving 


108 


3.85 


1 


1 


98 


Sweets and Pickles 














Honey 


4 teaspoons 


30 


1.05 


10 


3 


87 


Molasses .... 




35 


1.2 


0.5 





99.5 


Olives, green (edible 














portion) .... 


7 


32 


1.1 


1 


84 


15 



DIET AND NUTRITION 



207 



TABLE OF 100-CALORIE PORTIONS  Continued 





POBTION CON- 






Pro- 




Carbo- 


Food 


TAIMINQ 100 


Grams 


Ounces 


Fat 


HT- 




Calories (app.) 






tein 




DRATES 


Pickles, mixed . . 




415 


14.6 


18 


15 


67 


Su^ar, granulated 


3 teaspoons or 1) 














lumps 


24 


0.86 








100 


Syrup, maple . . . 


4 teaspoons 


35 


1.2 








100 


Nuts, Edible Portion 














AlmondH .... 


8 to 15 


15 


0.53 


13 


77 


10 


Cocoanut .... 




16 


0.57 


4 


77 


19 


Hickory nuts . . 




13 


0.47 


9 


85 


6 


Peanuts .... 


13 double 


18 


0.62 


20 


63 


17 


Walnuts, California 


About 6 


14 


0.48 


10 


83 


7 


Cereals and Breadstuffs 














Soda crackers . . 


3i Uneeda biscuit 




0.83 


9.4 


20 


70.6 


Bread, brown . . 


Ordinary thick slice 


43 


1.5 


9 


7 


84 


Bread, white, home 














made 


Ordinary thick slice 


38 


1.3 


13 


6 


81 


Com flakes . . . 


Ordinary cereal 














dish full 


27 


0.97 


11 


1 


88 


Corn meal .... 




27 


0.96 


10 


5 


85 


Crackers, Graham . 


2 


23 


0.82 


9 


20 


71 


Hominy, cooked 


Large serving 


120 


4.2 


11 


2 


87 


Macaroni, cooked . 


Ordinary serving 


110 


3.85 


14 


15 


71 


Oatmeal, cooked 


li serving 


159 


5.6 


18 


7 


75 


Rice, cooked . . . 


Ordinary cereal 














dish 


87 


3.1 


10 


1 


89 


Shredded wheat . . 


1 biscuit 


27 


0.94 


13 


4.5 


82.5 


Miscellaneous 














Eggs 


1 large 


59 


2.1 


32 


68 





Soup, beef .... 




380 


13.0 


69 


14 


17 


Soup, bean . . . 


Very large plate 


150 


5.4 


20 


20 


60 


Soup, cream celery . 


2 plates 


180 


6.3 


16 


47 


37 


Consomm6 . . . 




830 


29.0 


85 





15 


Chocolate, bitter 


i square 


16 


0.56 


8 


72 


20 


Ice cream .... 




45 


1.6 


5 


62 


38 


Boiled salad dressing 






1.4 


10.2 


88.6 


1.2 


Chocolate, beverage 


1 of ordinary cup 


84 


3 


8.8 


45.7 


44.5 



REFERENCE BOOKS 



Physiological and Pathological Chemistry G. Bunge 

Chemistry of Food and Nutrition . . Henry C. Sherman, Ph.D. 

Practical Dietetics Robert Hutchinson 

Elementary Study of Chemistry . . McPherson and Henderson 

Human Foods Harry Snyder 

Physiological Chemistry . . . . W. B. Halliburton 

Pure Foods John C. Olsen 

Foods A. H. Church 

Bacteria, Yeast, and Molds . . . H. W. Conn 

Story of Bacteria T. Mitchell Prudden 

Boston Cook Book Mrs. Mary A. Lincoln 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book . Fannie M. Farmer 

12 volumes of the Library of Home 

Economics American School of Home 

Economics, Chicago 
Bulletins of the U. S. Department of 

Agriculture 
Elements of the Theory and Practice of 

Cookery Williams and Fisher 



208 



INDEX 



Abbreviations, table of, 16. 
Acetic fermentation, 136-137. 
Acids and alkalies : 

experiments with, 123, 124. 
proportion to use in cooking, 126. 
Air, experiments with, 7, 8. 
Albumen, experiments with, 69. 
Albumen drinks, 188. 
Albuminized milk, 186. 
Albuminoids, 71. 
Alcoholic fermentation, 136, 137. 
Alkalies, experiments with, 123, 124. 
Alum baking powders, 126. 
Angel food, 158. 
Apples : 

composition of, 46. 
recipes for 

apple comp6te, 49. 

apple pie, 152. 

apple sauce, 48. 

apple water, 188. 

baked apples. No. 1, 48. 

baked apples. No. 2, 48. 

dried apple sauce, 48. 

Dutch apple cake, 127. 

escalloped apples, 164. 
varieties of, 48. 

Bacon, 95. 

Bacteria, 50-51. 

Baking jpowder biscuit, 127. 

Baking powder mixtures, 

construction rule for, 126. 
Baking powders, 124. 
Banana fritters, 149. 
Batters and doughs, 126. 
Bavarian cream, 179. 
Beans : 

baked, 40. 

baked bean soup, 61. 



Beans  Corit, 
salad, 172. 
succotash, 41. 
Beaten frosting, 163. 
Bechamel sauce, 38. 
Beef: 

diagram and food uses of, 79. 
market cuts, illustrated, 80-82. 
recipes for 

braised beef, 90. 
broiled beef cakes, 190. 
cottage pie, 97. 
dried beef, creamed, 97. 
Hamburg steak, 96. 
pot roast, 91. 
roast beef, 92. 
roast beef gravy, 94. 
steak, broiled, 94. 
steak, pan broiled, 94. 
stew, 89, 

tea, beef. No. 1, 187. 
tea, beef, No. 2, 187. 
to judge, 80. 
Beet sugar, 43. 
Berwick sponge cake, 158. 
Beverages, 117. 
Biscuit, baking powder, 127. 
Boiled frosting, 162. 
Boiling, experiments, 14, 15. 
Boiling point, 16. 
Boston brown bread, 129. . 
Bouillon, 65. 
Braised beef, 90. 
Braising, 90. 
Bread: 

baking of, 139. 

cost of, 142. 

proportion of ingredients, 138. 

recipes for 

Boston brown, 149. 



209 



210 



INDEX 



Bread, recipes for  CorU. 
entire wheat, 140. 
graham, 141. 
oatmeal, 141. 
rye, 141. 
white, 140. 
Bread crumbs, to prepare, 149. 
Breaded veal, 96. 
Bread griddle cakes, 131. 
Bread pudding, 164. 
Breakfast, 

menu, 194. 

possibilities, 194. 
Broiled beef cakes, 190. 
Broiled steak and chops, 94. 
Broiling : 

general method, 93. 

pan broiling, 94. 

time table for, 93. 

to broil with gas, 94. 
Broths : 

general discussion, 186. 

mutton, 188. 
Brown mushroom sauce, 96. 
Brown sauce, 24. 
Brown soup stock, 64. 
Burning point, experiments, 146. 
Butter : 

composition of, 110. 

renovated, 111. 
Butter cakes, 156. 
Buttered crumbs, 35. 
Butterine, 111. 

Cabbage : 
boiled, 40. 
escalloped, 40. 
salad, 174. 
Caffeine, 19, 118. 
Cakes : 

baking of, 157. 

cost of, 161. 

general classification, 156. 

recipes for 

angel food, 158. 

Berwick sponge, 158. 

devil's food, 162. 

Dutch apple, 127. 

one egg, 161. 



Cakes, recipes for  Cont. 
Park Street, 161. 
spice, 162. 
siponge, 157. 
white, 161. 
See cookies. 
Calcium. 2, 168. 
Calorie : 

definition, 196. [203. 

one-hundred-calorie portions, 202, 
table of, 205. 
Candy making: 
cost of, 46. 
recipes for 

cream mints, 46. 
fondant, 45. * 

Canning and preserving : 
cost of preserved fruit, 54. 
general method, 52. 
methods of, 53. 
recipes for 

Chili sauce, 58. 
grape juice, 55. 
peaches, 55. 
pears, 55.- 
plums, 55. 
sjnrup for fruit, 54. 
tomatoes, 54. 
tomatoes for soup, 54. 
Caramel : 
recipes for 
custard, 166. 
sjrrup, 131. 
Carbohydrates, 20. 
Carbon, 2, 3. 

Carbon dioxide, test for, 8. 
Carrots : 
in Bechamel sauce, 37. 
to prepare, 37. 
Cauliflower soup, 66. 
Celery soup, 60. 
Cellulose, 22. 
Cereals : 

amount for ten cents, 28. 
cooking of, 27. 
general discussion, 25. 
table of composition, 26. 
time table for cooking, 27. 
to serve, 29. 



INDEX 



211 



Charlotte Russe, 180. 
Cheese: 

care of, 112. 
composition of, 112. 
experiments with, 112. 
recipes for 

American rarebit, 113. 
cottage, 113. 
croquettes, 150. 
filling for sandwiches, 176. 
fondue, 114. 
sandwiches, 176. 
Welsh rarebit. No. 1, 113. 
Welsh rarebit. No. 2, 113. 
Chemical changes, 3. 
Chemical formulas and equations, 66. 
Chemical reactions in bread making, 
Chemical symbols, 5. [137. 

Chemistry, science of, 3. 
Chicken : 
cost of, 100. 
recipes for 
creamed, 102. 
escalloped, 98. 
pressed, 99. 
roast, 102. 

gravy for, 102. 
stuffing for. 102. 
salad, 175. 
stewed, 102. 
Chili sauce, 58. 
Chlorine, 2. 
Chops : 
lamb, 94. 
pork, 95. 
Classification of foods, 18. 
Cocoa and chocolate : 
beverage, 121. 
chocolate frosting, 163. 
cocoa, 122. 
cost of, 122. 
general discussion, 121. 
Codfish : 
recipes for, 
balls, 105. 
creamed, 105. 
Coffee: 
boiled, 120. 
cost of, 119. 



Coffee  Cont. 
experiments with, 118. 
filtered, 120. 
general discussion, 119. 
Collagen, 6. 
Combustion : 

products of, 8, 9. 
Composition : 
of body, 2. 
of foods, 200. 
Compounds, 1. 
Conduction, experiment illustrating, 

11, 12. 
Construction rule for baking powder 

mixtures, 126. 
Convection, experiment illustrating, 

12. 
Cookies: 
recipes for 

cookies, plain, 159. 
ginger snaps, 160. 
hermits, 159. 
jumbles, 160. 
sand tarts, 160. 
soft ginger, 160. 
soft molasses, 158. 
sour cream, 159. 
sponge drops, 159. 
Cooking, processes of, 14. 
Com: 

general discussion, 25. 
recipe for 
bread, 128. 
fritters, 41. 
muffins, 128. 
mush, 27. 
soup, 66. 
Cornstarch pudding, 25. 
Cottage pie, 97. 
Cottage pudding, 164. 
Cracker gruel, 188. 
Crackers, for soup, 67. 
Cranberries : 

general discussion, 49. 
recipe for 
jelly, 49. 
pie, 154. 
sauce, 49. 
tart, 155. 



212 



INDEX 



Cream of tartar baking powder, 125. 
Cream toast, 190. 
Creamy sauce, 167. 
Croquettes : 
recipes for 

cheese, 160. 

potato, 148. 

veal, etc., 148. 
Croutons, 67. 
Crullers, 148. 
Custards: 
recipe for 

baked, 74. 

caramel, 166. 

pie, 153. 

soft, 179. 

Devil's food cake, 162. 
Dextrin : 

experiments with, 22. 

identification test for, 22. 
Diet and Nutrition, 196. 
Dietary : 

average American, 198. 

one-hundred-calorie-portion 
method, 202. 

percentage composition method. 
Dinner menus : [199. 

family, 195. 

formal, 194. 
Doughnuts, 147. 
Dried beef, creamed, 97. 
Dumplings, 89. 
Dutch apple cake, 127. 

Eggs: 

composition of, 72. 
prices of, 72. 
recipes for 

creamed, 74. 

eggnog, 188. 

egg toast, 74. 

hard cooked, 74. 

omelets (see omelets). 

poached, 74. 

salad, 174. 

sandwiches, 175. 

soft cooked, 74. 
section of hen's, 72. 



Eggs  Corit. 

to add as thickening, 38. 

to preserve, 72. 
Elements : 

definition of, 1. 

present in human body, 2. 
Eknulsion, 144. 
Bkiuations, chemical, 6. 
Bkiuivalent weights and measures, 17. 
Extractives, 61-71. 

Fat proof coating, 149. 
Fats: 

composition of, 143, 144. 
cost of, 146. 
emulsion of, 144. 
saponification of, 145. 
sources of, 143. 
to render, 151. 
Fehling solution, 44. 
Fermentation, 136. 
Fish: 

composition of, 103. 
recipes for 
baked, 104. 
boUed, 104. 
broiled, 103. 
codfish balls, 105. 
codfish, creamed, 105. 
fried, 105, 149. 
lobster farci, 106. 
oysters, creamed, 107. 
oysters, escalloped, 107. 
planked, 103. 
salad, 175. 
salmon mold, 106. 

sauce for, 106. 
sardines on toast, 106. 
turbot, 105. 
tests for freshness of, 103. 
Flame, 9. 
Flash point, 10. 
Fluorine, 2. 
Foamy sauce, 167. 
Fondant, 45. 
Foods: 
classification of, 18. 
preservation of, 50. 
requirements, 196, 197. 



INDEX 



213 



Force meat balls, 67. 
French fried potatoes, 147. 
Fried food, objections to, 146. 
Fried potatoes, 147. 
Fritter batter, 149. 

banana fritters, 149. 

com fritters, 41. 
Frostings for cake : 

beaten, 163. 

boUed, 162. 

chocolate, 163. 

marshmallow, 163. 

plain, 162. 
Fruits: 

care and preparation of, 47. 

composition of, 46. 

methods of preserving, 53. 
Frying: 

cost of fats, 146. 

general method, 145. 

rules for testing, 147. 
Fuels, 10. 
Fungi, claBsification of, 50. 

Gas, 10. 

Gelatine, 71, 177. 
Gelatine desserts : 
recipes for 

apple compote, 49. 

Bavarian cream, 179. 

Charlotte Russe, 180. 

jellied prunes, 178. 

lemon jelly, 178. 

Neapolitan pudding, 179. 

snow pudding, 179. 

Spanish cream, 180. 
Gingerbread, 130. 
Ginger cookies, 160. 
Ginger snaps, 160. 
Gliadin, 71. 
GlobuUn, 61, 69, 70. 
Glucose, 43. 
Glutenin, 71. 
Graham bread, 141. 
Graham gems, 128. 
Graham pudding, 165. 
Grape jam, 57. 
Grape jelly, 56. 
Grape juice, 55. 



Grapes, spiced, 57. 
Gravy: 
recipes for 
chicken, 102. 
roast beef, 92. 
Griddle cakes : 
general rule, 130. 
recipes for 
bread, 131. 
sour milk, 130. 
waffles, 131. 
Gruels : 

general discussion, 187. 
recipes for 
cracker, 188. 
flour, 188. 
oatmeal, 188. 

Ham: 

broiled, 95. 

sandwiches, 76. 
Hamburg steak, 96. 
Hash, 97. 

Hashed browned potatoes, 35. 
Heat, sources of, 11. 
Heat and energy : 

requirement, 196. 

tables for, 196, 197. 
Hermits, 159. [28. 

Home made *' ready to eat" cereals, 
Hydrogen, 2, 4. 
Hydrogen sulphide, 5. 

Ice, 117. 
Ice cream : 
flavoring, 183. 
general rule, 182. 
recipes for 

cream foundation, 183. 

custard foundation, 183. 

strawberry, 183. 
to freeze, 181. 
Ices: 

general discussion, 181. 
recipes for 

lemon, 182. 

pineapple, 182. 
suggestions for, 183. 
to freeze, 181. 



214 



INDEX 



Identification tests : 

dextrin, 22. 

fat, 165. 

pectin, 47. 

protein, 69. 

starch, 21. 

sugar, glucose, 44. 
Indian pudding, 165. 
Inorganic matter, 5. 
Invalid cookery : 

diet for convalescent, 184. 

Ught, 184, 189. 

liquid, 184, 185. 

to set tray, 185. 
Iodine, 2. 
Irish stew, 90. 
Iron: 

general discussion, 169. 

table of iron in foods, 170. 

JeUy: 

due to pectin, 47. 
general directions for, 56. 
general discussion, 55. 
recipes for 

crab apple, 56. 
cranberry, 49. 
grape, 56. 
lemon, 178. 
Jumbles, 160. 
Junket, 187. 

Kindling point, 10. 

Lactic fermentation, 136. 
Lactose, 43, 109. 
Lamb : 

chops, 94. 

diagram and food uses of, 84. 

market cuts (illustrations), 86. 

side of, 85. 
Leavening, methods of, 123. 
Lemonade : 

recipes for 
flaxseed, 189. 
plain, 189. 
Lemon butter, 96. 
Lemon cream, 190. 
Lemon ice, 182. 



Lemon jelly, 178. 
Lemon pie, 154. 
Lemon sauce, 127. 
Lettuce : 

to freshen, 171. 

to keep, 172. 
Lettuce salad, 174. 
Lettuce sandwiches, 175. 
Lime: 

foods poor in, 169. 

foods rich in, 169. 
Lobster farci, 106. 
Luncheon, order of courses for, 194. 

Macaroni : 

general discussion, 41. 
recipes for 

baked with cheese, 42. 
with tomato sauce, 42. 
Magnesium, 2. 
Maple sugar, 43. 
Marmalades : 
recipes for 
grape jam, 57. 
peach, 57. 
pear ginger, 57. 
plum conserve, 56. 
spiced grapes, 57. 
Marshmallow frosting, 163. 
Measurements, table of, 16. 
Meat and vegetable sauces, 24. 
Meats : 

general methods of cooking, 88. 
methods of cooking in water, 

62. 
proteins present, 61. 
structure of fiber, 78. 
table of composition of, 77. 
See beef, mutton, pork, veal, 

warmed-over meats, 97. 
recipes for 

cottage pie, 97. 
escalloped chicken, 98. 
hash, 97. 

minced mutton, 98. 
meat r6chauff6, 98. 
meat soufii6, 98. 
pressed chicken, 99. 
See croquettes. 



INDEX 



216 



Menus : 

breakfast, 194. 

dinner, 194. 

lunch, 195. 
Meringue, 154. 
Milk; 

albuminized, 186. 

composition of, 108. 

experiments with, 110. 

general discussion, 108. 

in invalid diet, 185. 

milk products, see butter, cheese. 

milk toast, 190. 

pasteurized, 186. 

sterilized, 186. 
Mince pie, 154. 
Mineral foods : 

uses in body, 168. 
Molasses cookies, 158. 
Molds, 50. 
Mushroom sauce : 

brown, 96, 

white, 98. 
Mutton : 

diagram and food uses of, 84. 

market cuts, illustrated, 86. 

side of, 85. 

recipes for 

chops, broiled, 94. 
Irish stew, 90. 
minced, 98. 
roast, 93. 

Nitrogen, 2, 4. 
Nitrogenous foods, 4. 

See protein. 
Nut bread : . 

brown, 129. 

white, 129. 

Oatmeal, 25. 

Oatmeal gruel, 188. 

Oats, 25. 

Oleomargarine, tests for. 111. 

Omelets : 

general rules for, 75. 
recipes for, 
beaten, 75. 
creamy, 75. 



Omelets, recipes for  Cont. 
ham, 75. 
potato, 76. 
Spanish, 76. 
One egg cake, 161. 
One-hundred-calorie portions : 

dietary, example of, 204. 

explanation of, 202. 

table of, 205. 

to compute, 203. 
Onions: 

boiled, 40. 

general discussion, 39. 

to mince, 36. 
Orange cream, 190. 
Orange shortcake, 128. 
Organic matter, 5. 
Oxidation, 8. 
Oxygen : 

description of, 3. 

element, 2. 

experiments with, 7. 
Oysters, 

creamed, 107. 

escalloped, 107. 

Parkerhouse rolls, 140. 
Park Street cake, 161 
Parsley, to chop, 36. 
Pasteurization, 52. 
Pasteurized milk, 186. 
Pastry : 

recipe for, 152 

requisites for good, 160. 

shortening for, 151. 

See pie. 
Peach marmalade, 57. 
Peach preserves, 55. 
Pear ginger, 57. 
Pear preserves, 55. 
Pectin, indentification test for, 47. 
Peppers, stuffed green, 39. 
Phosphate baking powders, 125. 
Phosphorus, 2-5. 
Physical change, 2. 
Physics, science of, 3. 
Pickles, 

cucumber, 58. 

sweet, 67. 



216 



INDEX 



Pie: 

recipes for 
apple, 152. 
cranberry, 154. 
custard, 153. 
lemon, 154. 
mince, 154. 
pumpkin, 153. 
Pineapple ice, 182. 
Pinwheel biscuit, 128. 
Plants, classification of, 50. 
Plum conserve, 56. 
Plum preserves, 55. 
Pop-overs, 130. 
Pork: 

diagram and food uses of, 87. 
general discussion, 86. 
recipes for 
bacon, 95. 
chops, 95. 
ham, broiled, 95. 
side of, 88. 
Potassium, 2. 
Potatoes : 

general discussion, 33. 
recipes for 
au gratin, 35. 
baked, 34. 
boiled, 33. 
cakes, 36. 
creamed, 35. 
croquettes, 148. 
escailoped, 34. 
French fried, 147. 
fried, 147. 

hashed browned, 35. 
Lyonnaise, 34. 
mashed, 34. 
puff, 36. 
salad, 174. 
soup, cream of, 60. 
stewed, 35. 
Pot roast, 91. 
Protein : 

alcohol-soluble, 71. 
classification of, 70. 
conjugated, 71. 
experiments with, 69, 70. 
general discussion, 68. 



Protein  Cont. 

identification test for, 69. 
in meat, 61. 
in wheat, 133. 
other forms of, 71. 
phospho-protein, 71. 
requirement by body, 191. 
Puddings : 
recipes for 
bread, 164. 
com starch, 25. 
cottage, 164. 
custard : 
baked, 74. 
caramel, 166. 
soft, 179. 
escailoped apple, 164. 
graham, 165. 
Indian, 165. 
prune whip, 166. 
rice, 164. 
sponge, 166. 
suet, 165. 

tapioca cream, 166. 
See gelatine desserts. 
Pudding sauces : 
See sauces. 

Radiation, experiments illustrating, 

12. 
Rarebit, 

American, 113. 
Welsh, No. 1, 113. 
Welsh, No. 2, 113. 
Relation of food to the body, 1. 
Rice: 

general discussion, 26. 
recipes for 
baked, 28. 
muffins, 129. 
pudding, 164. 
to wash, 28. 
Roasting : 

general method, 91. 
time table for meats, 92. 
recipes for 
beef, 92. 
chicken, 102. 
mutton, 93. 



INDEX 



217 



Roasting, recipes for  Cont, 

veal, 92. 
Rolls, Parkerhouse, 140. 

Salads : 

food value, 171. 
recipes for 
cabbage, 174. 
chicken, 174. 
egg, 174. 
fish, 175. 
lettuce, 174. 
];)otato, 174. 
suggestions for, 172. 
to marinate, 172. 
to mix, 172. 
Salad dressings : 
recipes for 
cooked, 173. 
French, 174. 
mayonnaise, 173. 
whipped cream, 174. 
Sand tarts, 160. 
Sandwiches : 
recipes for 
cheese, 176. 
cheese filling, 176. 
egg, 176. 
ham, 176. 
lettuce, 175. 
Saponification, 145. 
Sauces, meat and vegetable : 
methods of making, 24. 
proportion of flour for, 24. 
recipes for 
 bechamel, 38. 
brown, 24. 

brown mushroom, 96. 
drawn butter, 104. 
lemon butter, 96. 
salmon, 106. 

thick white (for croquettes), 24. 
tomato, 42. 
white, 24. 

white mushroom, 98. 
Sauces, pudding : 
recipes for 

caramel syrup, 131. 
creamy, 167. 



Sauces, recipes for  Cont. 
foamy, 167. 
lemon, 127. 
vamlla, 167. 
yellow, 167. 
Scones, 127. 

Sherbets, suggestions for, 181. 
Silicon, 2. 

Snow pudding, 179. 
Soap making, 145. 
Sodium, 2. 

Sodium bicarbonate, 124. 
Soups : 

cream soups, 59. 
recipes for 

baked bean, 61. 
cauliflower, 66. 
celery, 60. 
clear tomato, 60. 
com, 66. 
potato, 60. 
spinach, 61. 
tomato, 59. 
to bind or thicken, 59. 
made with stock, 59, 61, 63. 
recipes for 
bouillon, 64. 
stock, 64. 

stock, brown, 63, 64. 
stock, white, 66. 
tomato, 64. 
vegetable, 64. 
to clear soup, 64. 
Sour cream cookies, 159. 
Sour milk griddle cakes, 130. 
Spanish cream, 180. 
Spice cake, 162. 
Sponge cake (without water), 157. 

Berwick (with water), 158. 
Sponge drops, 159. 
Sponge pudding, 160. 
Stages in sugar boiling, 15. 
Starch : 

experiments with, 21. 
identification test for, 21. 
methods of thickening with, 23- 
24. 
Sterilization, 52. 
SteriUzed milk, 186. 



218 



INDEX 



Stewing : 

general method, 89. 

recipes for 
beef stew, 89. 
Irish stew, 90. 
veal stew, 90. 
Stoves and ranges, 13. 
Strawberry ice cream, 183. 
Succotash, 40. 
Suet pudding, 165. 
Sugar : 

cane, 43. 

experiments with, 43. 

general discussion, 43. 

glucose, 44 . . 

lactose, 43. 

maple, 43. 

stages in boiling, 15. 

test for, 44. 
Sulphur, 2, 4. 
Symbols of elements in body, 5. 

Table service, 191. 
Table setting, 192. 
Tannin, tests for, 118. 
Tapioca cream, 166. 
Tarts : 

cranberry, 155. 
general rule, 155. 
Tea: 

cost of, 119. 
experiments with, 118. 
general discussion, 120. 
recipe for 

Russian, 121. 
stimulant, 117. 
Toast : 

boxes, 107. 

directions for making, 189. 
recipes for 
cream, 190. 
milk, 190. 
sticks, 67. 
water, 189. 
Tomatoes : 

general discussion, 38. 
recipes for 
creamed, 38. 
sauce, 42. 



Tomatoes, recipes for  CorU. 
stewed, 38. 
stuffed, 39. 
to can, 54. 
to can for soup, 54. 
to prepare, 38. 
Tomato soups : 
clear, 60. 
cream, 50. 
stock, 64. 
Turbot, 105. 
Turnips : 

general discussion, 36. 
recipes for 
creamed, 37. 
cups with pea filling, 37. 
to boil and mash, 37. 
to prepare, 37. 

Vanilla sauce, 167. 
Veal: 

diagram and food uses of, 82. 
general discussion, 83. 
recipes for 

breaded, baked, 96. 

chops, 95. 

croquettes, 148, 

loaf, 96. 

roast, 92. 

souffl6, 98. 

stew, 90. 
side of, 83. 
Vegetables : 

amoimt nutrition for ten cents, 31. 
general composition of, 31. 
general methods of cooking, 32. 
table of composition, 30. 
to prepare, 32. 
Vegetable soup, 66. 

Waffles, 131. 
Warmed-over meats, 97. 
Washington pie, 158. 
Water : 

composition of, 116. 

distilled, 115. 

hard and soft, 117. 

purification of, 116. 

sources of, 116. 



INDEX 



219 



Water toast, 189. 
Wheat : 

composition of, 132. 

experiments with, 134. 

proteins in, 133. 

section of grain of, 132. 
White bread, 140. 
White cake, 161. 
White mushroom sauce, 98. 
White soup stock, 66. 



Yeast: 

a fungus, 50. 

drawing of, 135. 

experiments with, 137. 

growth of, 135. 

raw potato, recipe for, 139. 
Yellow sauce, 167. 



T 



HE following pages contain advertisements of 
a few of the Macmillan books on kindred subjects 



Practical Physics for Secondary Schools 

By N. HENRY BLACK of the Roxbury Latin School 
Boston, and Professor HARVEY N. DAVIS of Harvard 
University. 

Clothe I2m0y illustrated^ 488 pages. List price, %t,2S 

" In preparing this book," say the authors in the Preface, " we have tried to 
select only those topics which are of vital interest to young people, whether or 
not they intend to continue the study of physics in a college course. 

"In particular, we believe that the chief value of the informational side of 
such a course lies in its applications to the machinery of daily life. Everybody 
needs to know something about the working of electrical machinery, optical 
instruments, ships, automobiles, and all those labor-saving devices, such as 
vacuum cleaners, fireless cookers, pressure cookers, and electric irons, which 
are found in many American homes. We have, therefore, drawn as much of 
our illustrative material as possible from the common devices in modern life. 
We see no reason why this should detract in the least from the educational 
value of the study of physics, for one can learn to think straight just as well by 
thinking about an electrical generator, as by thinking about a Geissler tube. . . . 

" To understand any machine clearly, the student must have clearly in mind 
the fundamental principles involved. Therefore, although we have tried to 
begin each new topic, however short, with some concrete illustration familiar 
to young people, we have proceeded, as rapidly as seemed wise, to a deduction 
of the general principle. Then, to show how to make use of this principle, we 
have discussed other practical applications. We have tried to emphasize still 
further the value of principles, that is, generalizations, in science, by simimariz- 
ing at the end of each chapter the principles discussed in that chapter. In 
these summaries we have aimed to make the phrasing brief and vivid so that 
it may be easily remembered and easily used." 

The new and noteworthy features of the book are the admirable 
selection of familiar material used to develop and apply the principles 
of physical science, the exceptionally clear and forceful exposition, 
showing the hand of the master teacher, the practical, interesting, 
thought-provoking problems, and the superior illustrations. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-^6 Fifth Avenue 

Chicago New Tork City Dallas 

Boston Atlanta San Francisco 



Human Behavior: 

A First Book in Psychology for Teachers 

By STEPHEN S. COLVIN 

Professor of Educational Psychology in Brown University, and 

WILLIAM CHANDLER BAGLEY 

Director of the School of Education in the University of Illinois 

Clothe i2mo, 336 pageSf $1.00 

" I shall be surprised if this book does not attract attention at 
once," writes Mr. H. B. Wilson, Superintendent of Schools, 
Decatur, 111. "I like the topics it takes up, the organization of 
these topics, and the point of view it maintains. The sum- 
maries and the exercises and questions at the conclusions of the 
various chapters adapt it well for class instruction. I believe 
we have in this book a text which will enable a good many high 
schools to offer a course ^for intending teachers such as they 
have not been able to organize for want of a suitable text." 

The purpose of the authors in writing the book, as stated in 
the preface, has undoubtedly been attained and their plan suc- 
cessfully carried out. "It is hoped that the book may prove 
useful to the large numbers of young men and young women 
who each year enter the service of the public schools. It has, 
indeed, been written with a distinct recognition of the immatu- 
rity and inexperience which these beginning teachers represent. 
Every effort has been made (i) to select the topics that are 
most closely related to the work of teaching ; (2) to treat these 
topics concretely, enforcing each principle with a wealth of 
illustration drawn partly from class-room practice and partly 
from the affairs of everyday life ; and (3) to simplify the ter- 
minology, without, at the same time, sacrificing accuracy of state- 
ment." 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New Tork 



Shelter and Clothing: 

A TEXTBOOK OF THE HOUSEHOLD ARTS 

By HELEN KINNE, Professor of Household Arts Educa- 
tion, and ANNA M. COOLEY, Assistant Professor of House- 
hold Arts Education, Teachers College, Columbia University. 

Cloth, i2mo, illustrated, j/y pages, $i./o 

This book and the volume, Foods and Household Management, that follows 
it, make up a full course in domestic matters not confined to details of cooking 
and sewing. The books treat fully, but with careful balance, every phase of 
home-making. The authors hold that Harmony will be the keynote of the 
home in proportion as the makers of the home regard the plan, the sanitation, 
the decoration of the house itself, and as they exercise economy and wisdom in 
the provision of food and clothing. 

" Home Economics stands for the utilization of the resources of modem 
science to improve home life," and to this end homemakers should be con- 
versant with modem scientific thought on matters domestic. The best schemes 
of heating and lighting, modem arrangements for the disposal of waste, the 
sanitary efficiency of tinted walls, of bare floors, of furniture built on simple 
lines, these are some ways in which modern science instructs the intelligent 
homemaker. In the selection of textiles for clothing and domestic use, a 
housekeeper to be efficient must be able to distinguish between fabrics of dif- 
ferent fibers and to choose durable weaves, she must be able to detect adultera- 
tion and the deceptive " finishing " processes. In buying ready-made garments 
she must know how to protect herself and her family from the danger of gar- 
ments infected by diseased operators in sweatshops. The up-to-date book on 
home economy treats such topics and relates them to common experience. 

The plan of the book is flexible. Parts may be omitted or shifted to meet 
the necessity or the convenience of different schools. The chapter headings 
in some measure disclose the breadth, the variety, and the practicability of the 
book : 

The Home.  Its plan and construction ; heating, ventilating, lighting, 
water supply, and the disposal of waste ; decoration ; furnishing. Textiles.  
Materials and how they are made. Garment-making.  Patterns ; cutting and 
making garments; embroidery. Dress.  History of costume; hygiene of 
clothing ; economics of dress ; care and repair of clothing ; millinery. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 Fifth Avenue 

Chicago New York City Dallas 

Boston Atlanta San Francisco 



Chemistry and its Relations to Daily Life 

By LOUIS KAHLENBERG and EDWIN B. HART 

Professors of Chemistry in the University of Wisconsin 

Cloth f ismOf illustrated, JQJ pages. List price , Si. 2$ 



If the contributions of chemical science to modern civilization 
were suddenly swept away, what a blank there would be ! If, on 
the other hand, every person were acquainted with the elements of 
chemistry and its bearing upon our daily life, what an uplift human 
efficiency would receive ! It is to further this latter end that this 
book has been prepared. Designed particularly for use by students 
of agriculture and home economics in secondary schools, its use will 
do much to increase the efficiency of the farm and the home. In 
the language of modern educational philosophy, it " functions in the 
life of the pupil." 

Useful facts rather than mere theory have been emphasized, 
although the theory has not been neglected. The practical char- 
acter of the work is indicated by the following selected chapter 
headings : 

IL The G)mposftion and Uses of Water* . 

IV* The Air, Nitrogfen, Nitric Acid^ and Ammonia* 

CL Carbon and Its Compounds* 

Xn* Paints^ Oils^ and Varnishes* 

XIII* Leather^ Silk^ Wool^ Cotton^ and Rubber* 

XV* Commercial Fertilizers* 

XVL Farm Manure* 

XX* Milk and Its Products* 

XXL Poisons for Farm and Orchard Pests* 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

64-66 FIFTH AVENUE 

BOSTON NEW YORK CITY DALLAS 

CHICAGO ATLANTA SAN FRANCISCO 



