(Tornell IDlnivetsit^ 



Xibrari? 

OF THE 

IRew l?orf? State College of agriculture 

a^.-aj?^ : / iolVDl?... 

3778 



The kitchen garden and the cook :an alph 




3 1924 000 677 256 



Date Due 




RETURN TO 
ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 



ITHACA, N. Y. 



Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000677256 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND 
THE COOK 



The Kitchen Garden 
and the Cook 

An Alphabetical Guide to the Cultivation 

of Vegetables 

With Recipes for Cooking Them 



COLLECTED AND ARRANGED BY 

CECILIA MARIA PEARSE 

AUTHOR OF "THE ROMANCE OF A GREAT SINGER" 



LONDON 

SMITH, ELDER ^ CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE 

1913 

[All rights reserved] 
t.t. 






Kq.USI 



Printed by Ballantyne, Hanson &' Co. 
at the Ballantyne Press, Edinburgh 



FOREWORD. 

My thanks are due to all those who have allowed 
me to quote from them in compiling this book. For 
permission to use some of their recipes I am indebted 
to Mrs. C. W. Earle ; George Savage & Sons, The 
Garden City, Letchworth ; Dr. Josiah Oldfield's 
Fruitarian Diet; Olive Green's How to Cook Vege- 
tables ; Mr. C. Herman Senn's How to Cook Vegetables ; 
Mrs. Ross's Tuscan Kitchen ; and Mr. Sydney Beard's 
Order of the Golden Age; while the extracts from the 
lecture by Mr. W. F. Giles are given by permission 
of Messrs. Sutton & Sons. 

Most of all, however, I owe thanks to Mr. A. C. 
Curtis, author of The Small Garden Beautiful and The 
Small Garden Useful, for cultural directions and for 
his great help in general revision of the whole book. 

CECILIA MARIA PEARSE. 
November 1913. 



CONTENTS 



The Kitchen Garden and the Cook — Culture 

AND Recipes 

Salad Plants and Salads 

Miscellaneous Sauces 

Miscellaneous Soups .... 

Miscellaneous Dishes .... 

Cheese Dishes ...... 

Cakes and Puddings without Eggs 
Cool Drinks 

SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING IN SmaLL GaRDENS 

Little Known Vegetables 

Hints on Vegetable Cooking in Bags . 



I 

189 

207 

213 

225 

248 

249 

255 

259 
274 

284 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN 
AND THE COOK 



In preparing vegetables care should be given to 
cleanse them by washing them in cold salted water, 
but they should not be made sodden by long im- 
mersion. Fresh vegetables should be cooked the 
day of gathering, and one cannot be too careful 
about all tinned vegetables, especially tomatoes, mush- 
rooms, and lentils. All green vegetables should be 
removed from the water as soon as cooked, and well 
drained. To avoid any offensive smell caused by 
cabbage or other greens, put a piece of bread or 
toast with them while cooking ; this will absorb the 
odour. All vegetables should be served very hot. 

GLOBE ARTICHOKE {Cynara Scolynius. Compositce). 

This is a perennial plant, but is apt to deteriorate 
under cultivation ; therefore, if possible, a third of the 
plantation should be renewed yearly. It does not 
always stand our cold and damp winters, though it 
may be considered hardy in the south of England. 

The Globe Artichoke does not always come true to 
seed, so that it is better to renew or start a planta- 
tion by means of rooted suckers, which the plant 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

freely throws off. If seed be selected it should be 
sown in a mild hotbed in March and planted in its 
permanent bed in May. 

A light, rich loam is preferred, heavy soils holding 
too much damp for this somewhat delicate plant, 
which requires perfect drainage yet plenty of water 
during the growing season. A sunny position should 
be chosen for the bed, the ground should be trenched 
and well manured, and the plants be put out in April 
about three feet apart according to the variety. 

Keep the soil stirred with the hoe, and give plenty 
of water during drought, with occasional doses of 
weak liquid manure. In giving manure water to this, 
as to all other subjects, it should be extremely dilute, 
and should be applied during showery weather, or, 
if in dry weather, should be preceded and followed 
by copious watering with plain water. 

In the autumn the plants must be trimmed up, and 
winter protection given in the shape of straw or fern 
covering. 

The crop comes in over a longish period, beginning 
in late June with the older plants and going on into 
the Autumn with the plants put out in the spring. 
The flowering heads should be gathered when they 
are about three-parts grown, and well before they open. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE {Helianthus tuberosus. 
Composite^). 

This perennial sunflower gives, perhaps, the heaviest 
yield per square yard of any garden crop. It is of 



ARTICHOKE 

the easiest culture, and may be grown in the same 
plot of ground year after year, an advantage in its 
case, as once in the ground it is very difficult to get 
rid of it. The ground should be prepared in late 
winter by trenching in a moderate quantity of manure. 
The tubers may be planted any open day in February 
or March in rows three feet apart, the sets eighteen 
inches in the rows. The rest of the culture simply 
consists in hoeing up weeds ; the crop may be left 
in the ground and dug as required from September 
onwards, but it should be all cleared up before the 
tubers start to grow in March. 

CHINESE ARTICHOKE {Stachys tuberiferd). 

These require exactly similar treatment to Jeru- 
salem Artichokes, except that the plants need be only 
a foot to fifteen inches apart. They withstand frost 
well, and may stay in the ground and be dug as 
wanted. 

DISHES. 

Boiled Artichoke (Jerusalem). — Wash well, as many 
artichokes as will be required, then put them in 
plenty of fresh clean water to cover and peel them 
rapidly, keeping them under water during the process, 
and then plunging them in a bowl of cold water till 
all are finished. 

This is very important, as artichokes turn black if 
exposed to the air without their skins, even after they 
are cooked. Every one knows the disgusting appear- 

3 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

ance a dish of black artichokes floating in their milk 
and water presents. This can be avoided by care- 
fully following these directions. 

Put them in a saucepan of cold water, sufficient to 
cover them well, add one tablespoonful of salt, allow 
twenty minutes to half an hour after they reach 
boiling point. Drain, and arrange on a drainer in 
a very hot vegetable dish, pour over a good white 
sauce (see White Sauce) immediately, being careful to 
mask each artichoke with the sauce, thus protecting it 
from the air. If properly cooked the sauce will cling 
to the vegetable and not drop to the bottom of the 
dish. If the artichokes have to wait, draw the sauce- 
pan to one side and keep them in the water till 
wanted. 

Purde of Jerusalem Artichokes. — Melt a heaped 
tablespoonful of butter, add a sliced onion, one bay 
leaf, three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes washed, 
pared, and cut into slices. Cook slowly for ten 
minutes, add gradually one cupful of milk. When 
the vegetables are thoroughly cooked, add another 
cupful of milk, salt and pepper to season. Serve on 
toast or boil until tender in milk to cover, drain and 
press through a colander, and reheat, seasoning with 
salt and pepper. 

Baked Artichokes. — Peel and trim one dozen arti- 
chokes, and season with salt and pepper. Put into a 
buttered baking-dish and bake for half an hour. 
Baste frequently with butter, and serve in the same 
dish. 

Another Method. — Wash and pare the artichokes, 

4 



ARTICHOKE 

put into cold water, with one tablespoonful of salt, 
boil till tender, cut into slices and put into a baking- 
dish. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese. Cover 
with white or cream sauce, sprinkle with crumbs, dot 
with butter, and bake until the crumbs are brown. 

Braised Artichokes. — Peel, wash, and parboil the 
artichokes. Drain and put into a baking-dish with 
enough water to moisten, add a small bunch of 
parsley, a few slices of carrot, and a small onion. 
Cover and bake slowly for an hour, add a little more 
liquid if required, remove the carrot, onion, and 
parsley, and serve in a vegetable dish with the 
strained liquid thickened, seasoned, and poured 
over. 

Mashed Artichokes. — Wash and peel fifteen arti- 
chokes, cover with cold, salted water, bring to the 
boil, and cook until tender, drain, rub through a 
sieve, season with salt and pepper, add a piece of 
butter, and serve very hot. Brown sauce may be 
added if liked. 

Brown Sauce. — Two onions, one tablespoonful of 
flour, three-quarters of a pint of salted water ; season- 
ing, one ounce of butter or a tablespoonful of oil ; 
chop the onion, fry brown in the butter, add the flour, 
which must be browned, pour in the water and stir 
until the mixture thickens, then season it to taste. 
Any kind of vegetable stock is preferable to water. 

Another Method. — One onion, half a carrot, half a 
turnip, parsley, herbs, one bay leaf, one ounce of 
butter, one pint of water, one dessertspoonful of 
vinegar, one lump of sugar, spice, one tablespoonful 

5 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

of ketchup or other condiment sauce. Fry the 
chopped vegetables in the butter until they are a good 
brown, add the flour, stir well, and add the water and 
stir until the mixture boils, then put in the parsley, 
herbs, vinegar, sugar, spice, and seasoning to taste, 
simmer by the side of the fire for about one hour, 
strain, and add the ketchup. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with Brown Sauce.— Peel the 
artichokes, cut into dice, cook them till tender in 
salted water. Drain and reheat in brown sauce. 

Artichokes ^ la Oreme. — Prepare according to 
directions given for above recipe. Sprinkle with 
crumbs and grated cheese. Dot with butter, and 
brown in the oven, using the dish in which it is to 
be served. 

Jerusalem Artichoke Balls. — Take eight boiled arti- 
chokes, rub through a sieve, and put into a saucepan 
with a little milk, one ounce butter, and one ounce 
Parmesan cheese. Stir over the fire until smooth, 
then add pepper and salt to taste, and the yolks of 
two eggs. Mix well and let it cool. Make balls of 
equal size, brush over with the white of egg, dip in 
bread crumbs, and fry in hot nuttage or butter. 
Serve in pyramids with fried parsley scattered 
over. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with HoUandaise Sauce. — 
Take twelve artichokes, trim them to the shape of 
pears, boil in water till tender, then drain well, and 
arrange them in the shape of a pyramid, pour over 
them some sauce HoUandaise, and serve. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with White Sauce and Par- 

6 



ARTICHOKE 

mesan Cheese. — They must have been previously 
cooked and cut up in small pieces. 

Fried Chinese Artichokes. — Boil the artichokes 
until tender, drain them, egg and bread crumb them, 
fry until crisp, and serve with parsley sauce and slices 
of lemons. 

Artichokes a la Provengale. — Clean and cut two 
dozen Jerusalem artichokes in pieces about half an 
inch in length. Wash and put them into a stewpan 
with half an ounce of fresh butter and half an ounce 
of white castor sugar. Put them on a slow fire for 
a few minutes, add four tablespoonfuls of white sauce, 
eight tablespoonfuls of milk, and simmer until the 
artichokes are soft, then skim. Mix the yolk of an 
egg with two tablespoonfuls of milk, pour it into the 
stewpan and stir quickly, and serve hot. Jerusalem 
artichokes must be well cooked, but not reduced to 
a pulp. 

Artichoke Pur^e. — Wash well and peel twelve 
artichokes, boil them in three pints of water and one 
tablespoonful of salt ; when soft take them up, pro- 
bably in twenty minutes. Meanwhile cook slowly in 
a stewpan one sliced onion, a little celery, one turnip, 
two ounces of butter, one bay leaf, and a little grated 
nutmeg. Stir and add one tablespoonful of flour and 
one pint or less of milk to form a proper thickness. 
Put in the artichokes. When boiled pass through a 
fine hair sieve and serve hot. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of cream or two yolks of eggs in the tureen and stir 
while adding the pur^e. 

Boiled Globe Artichokes.— Cut off the tips of the 

7 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

leaves and round off the bottoms. Remove the stalks 
and trim away the outer leaves. Soak for half an 
hour in salt water, washing thoroughly. Boil until 
tender in a large quantity of salted water, put into 
a serving dish, dot with butter, and heat till the butter 
is melted, and serve. Hollandaise sauce can be 
served with them. 

Boiled Italian Artichokes. — Cut off the stems and 
boil till tender in salted water. Cut in half from top 
to bottom and serve to each person. Pass with them 
Hollandaise sauce. The scales must be stripped off 
and the soft end dipped into the sauce and eaten. 
The fuzzy part should be scraped off and the bottom 
eaten with a fork. 

Artichokes a la Babette. — Put green artichokes into 
water and remove the choke. Trim the leaves neatly, 
parboil five minutes in salt water, and drain. Put 
into a buttered casserole, season with salt and pepper, 
and add a little butter. Cover and cook in a moderate 
oven for twenty-five minutes. This can be served 
with Hollandaise sauce. 

Fried Artichokes. — Cut off the leaves and trim 
away the choke part. ■ Chill on ice. Make a batter 
of half a cupful of flour, a pinch of salt, and baking 
powder, mix with a cupful of milk and a beaten 
egg. Cut each artichoke into pieces, season with salt 
and pepper, dip in the batter, and fry in deep fat, 
drain, and serve with any kind of sauce. 

Stuffed Artichokes.— Clean and trim the artichokes, 
boil in salted water until tender, drain, scoop out 
the soft part with a spoon, season with a cupful of 



ARTICHOKE 

chopped nuts, salt, pepper, melted butter, and lemon 
juice. Put the artichokes into a buttered baking 
dish, fill with nuts, tie into shape with string, add 
two cupfuls of stewed and drained tomatoes, a sliced 
onion, a pinch of salt, and a tablespoonful of butter. 
Bake slowly for an hour, basting frequently with the 
liquid. Take off the strings and strain the sauce, and 
serve. 

Stuffed Fonds of Artichokes. — Cook eight artichoke 
bottoms in boiling water, drain, season with salt and 
pepper, fill with nuts, sprinkle with crumbs, dot with 
butter, and bake for ten minutes, basting with butter, 
and serve in the same dish. 

Artichokes a la CrSme. — Trim the artichokes and 
soak for half an hour in cold water and a little vinegar 
water to cover, rinse in fresh water and cook in salted 
water until tender. Drain and reheat in a cream 
sauce. An egg beaten and the juice of a lemon or 
a few drops of vinegar may be added. 

Artichokes a la Mode. — Prepare and trim four or 
more artichokes, put into a saucepan with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, the juice of a lemon, a pinch 
each of salt and pepper. Simmer until tender, drain,, 
and brown in the oven. Put into the pan in which 
they were cooked two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
heaped tablespoonful of flour, stir well, add half a 
cupful of milk, and half a cupful of water. Let it 
boil four minutes, stirring continually. Add one 
wineglassful of white wine, and serve in a sauce- 
boat. 

Artichokes a I'ltalien. — Wash, quarter, and trim 

9 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the artichokes, and boil in salt water until tender. 
Drain, remove and discard the chokes, arrange the 
artichokes on a dish with the leaves outwards, pour 
over a white sauce flavoured with mushrooms, and 
garnish with watercress. 

Artichokes a la Lyonnaise.— Prepare and clean the 
artichokes, boil till tender in salt water, drain, wipe 
dry, fry in equal parts of butter and oil, when 
brown add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir well, 
then half a cupful of water, and boil for three 
minutes, season with salt, pepper, minced parsley, 
and lemon juice, and serve. 

Second Method. — Pull off the leaves and cut the 
artichokes into quarters, parboil in salt water for 
five minutes, drain and arrange in a thickly buttered 
baking-dish, sprinkle with sugar, salt, and white 
pepper, add one wineglassful of white wine and one 
tablespoonful of water. Simmer slowly for three 
quarters of an hour. Add one tablespoonful of butter 
and a little lemon juice poured over the artichokes 
before serving. 

Artichokes a la Pompadour. — Cover eight artichoke 
bottoms with cream sauce, lay on each one a large 
floweret of boiled cauliflower previously boiled for a 
quarter of an hour, cover with more of the sauce, 
sprinkle with crumbs and grated cheese, dot with 
butter. Bake brown in a buttered pan, basting with 
the sauce as needed. 

Artichokes a la Provence. — Peel the artichokes 
and boil in salt water until tender. Drain and serve 
with a cupful of brown butter sauce to which has 

10 



ARTICHOKE 

been added the yolks of two eggs well beaten, with a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. The sauce must not be 
allowed to boil after the eggs are added. 

Artichokes k la Tartare.— Cut the artichoke stalks 
close, cut the sharp points from the leaves, removing 
not more than half an inch from each. Wash in cold 
water to which a little vinegar has been added. Drain 
and cook gently in salt water, drain upside down 
until dry, fill the hollow left by the choke with Tartare 
sauce or with a sauce made as follows : — Beat to- 
gether half a cupful of melted butter, one table- 
spoonful each of lemon juice and olive oil, a little salt, 
finely chopped parsley, French mustard, and grated 
onion to season. Bring to the boil, take from the 
fire and pour it very slowly upon one beaten egg, 
stirring all the time. Pour over the artichokes and 
serve. 

(French mustard is mustard mixed with vinegar 
instead of water.) 

Pur^e of Artichokes. — Clean some artichoke bot- 
toms and cook in salted water. Drain, rinse, and cut 
into small pieces. Reheat in a saucepan with an 
equal quantity of Bechamel sauce, and cook until 
slightly reduced. Rub through a fine sieve, season, 
add butter and cream, and serve. 

Another Method. — Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and two tablespoonfuls of flour in a saucepan and 
stir for five minutes. Pour one and a half pints of 
boiling milk in gradually, beat well with a wooden 
spoon and flavour with herbs, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg, twelve peppercorns, a 

1 1 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

pinch of salt, and three ounces of chopped mush- 
rooms. Cook for a quarter of an hour and rub 
through a fine sieve. 

Italian Dishes. — Clean and cut the under leaves of 
three large globe artichokes. Boil them sufficiently 
to be able to pick out the chokes and put them in 
cold water for five minutes. Drain thoroughly, then 
fill the hole in the artichoke with a forcemeat made 
of two shallots well chopped, six mushrooms minced, 
a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little butter and 
grated nutmeg, mix well together, tie up the artichokes 
with string. Heat three tablespoonfuls of good olive 
oil in a pan, and brown them well on both sides and 
then place the artichokes in a fireproof dish and put 
a bit of butter on the top of each, bake for forty 
minutes in the oven, and serve. Pour any kind of 
sauce over them. 

Artichokes and Eggs. — Cut off the sharp tops of 
young artichokes and slice them into four pieces, 
flour them and put them into a fireproof dish with 
boiling, pure olive oil. Beat up two or three eggs 
with some salt, pour over the artichokes, and cook till 
the eggs are set. Serve hot in the dish in which they 
were cooked. 

Fried Artichokes. — Cut off the sharp ends of the 
leaves of quite young artichokes and any hard leaves 
off the stalks, which must be peeled. Cut the 
artichokes into four pieces, put them in a saucepan 
with butter, salt and pepper. Shake the saucepan 
occasionally, and when they have absorbed all the 
butter pour over them a cup of water to finish the 

12 



ASPARAGUS 

cooking. Take them out, dry them, and put into a 
saucepan some chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of 
finely grated bread, and the juice of a lemon. Boil 
the sauce for a few minutes, then take it off the fire 
and add a little more water, heat again over the fire, 
pour over the artichokes, and serve hot. 



ASPARAGUS {Asparagus officinalis, Liliacece). 

As asparagus is a perennial plant of long life it is 
of great importance that the bed in which it is to 
spend fifteen years or more should be well prepared 
and suitable for it. A light sandy loam is the very 
best of soil for this purpose. If, however, the 
gardener has only heavy soil at his command, he 
can still grow good asparagus by providing ample 
drainage and by raising his asparagus beds a few 
inches above the level of the surrounding garden. 

Ground should be prepared for asparagus in the 
early winter, when it must be thoroughly trenched, 
and left in a rough condition for the winter frosts 
to pulverise and open it. A good dressing of manure 
should be dug into the second spit. 

Asparagus is generally planted far too closely, with 
the result that only very second-rate sticks are grown. 
Now a mature asparagus plant will be from three to 
four feet across the roots if properly grown, and this 
definitely points to the fact that the plants should be 
at least three feet apart. There is no doubt whatever 
that plants four feet apart will give the finest heads, 
and the ideal width for the beds would be three feet, 

13 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

with two-foot alleys between, the plants being put 
four feet apart down the middle of the beds. Un- 
fortunately few gardeners (except nurserymen grow- 
ing for the market) will afford this ample space, 
therefore we lay down as the absolute minimum 
distances two and a half feet between the rows, the 
plants the same distance in the row. By placing the 
plants alternately and not opposite each other in the 
adjoining row a little more distance apart is given. 

No asparagus bed should contain more than three 
rows — two are plenty — as it injures the heads if the 
gardeners are tramping about over them gathering 
the crop. The edge of the bed should be at least 
eighteen inches distant from the nearest row of plants, 
and between the beds eighteen-inch alleyways should 
be left for traffic and cultural purposes. 

Since asparagus is four years coming to bearing 
size from seed, many people prefer to start a planta- 
tion with two or three year old plants, but it is 
difficult to transplant safely, and certainly the best 
plantations come from seed. This should be sown 
in March or April. At each point where it is wished 
to establish a crown three seeds should be planted 
an inch apart and two inches deep. When the 
seedhngs are well up the strongest should be left 
and the two others pulled away. 

If, however, plants are to be put out the utmost 
care is necessary. In the first place it is no use 
planting in autumn or winter. The only safe time 
is just when the plants are beginning to make their 
spring growth. If moved when they are dormant 

14 



ASPARAGUS 

the plants will lie quietly rotting in the ground, and 
the gardener will be lucky if ten per cent, of autumn- 
moved plants survive. 

March and April are the months in which to plant ; 
February is generally too early and May is sometimes 
too late, though we have this year made a small 
plantation at the end of April every plant of which 
has survived. The ground is prepared for the plants 
by opening it out to a depth of four inches, and by 
means of the garden line and a rake or hoe ridges 
should be formed along the line the plants are to 
be placed. When the plants arrive from the nursery 
they should be at once unpacked, a few at a time, 
and planted forthwith, as drying winds are most 
injurious to the roots. The roots should be laid on 
and over the ridges and earth at once drawn over 
them. Repeat the operation, half a dozen plants at 
a time, until the whole is finished. Earth should 
be returned from the alleys till the beds stand some 
four inches above them, and all raked level and tidy. 
The crowns should not be more than four inches 
beneath the surface of the finished bed. 

The after culture of asparagus is not difficult. 
The beds should be kept weeded ; the hand fork and 
hand weeding are preferable to using a hoe to cut 
the plants as well as the weeds. In the autumn the 
beds should be cleaned up and the stems cut down 
to within six inches of the soil, the top two inches 
of earth should be removed to the alleys, and a good 
mulch of fat manure spread over the bed. 

In February the long straw and debris of this 

15 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

mulch should be raked off, and the earth returned 
from the alleys ; at the same time a top dressing of 
two ounces superphosphate of lime and of four 
ounces of kainit per square yard should be applied. 
About mid-March give a top-dressing of half an ounce 
of nitrate of soda per square yard, and repeat this dose 
every fortnight till the end of May, always selecting 
showery days, or if these are not to be found, 
give a thorough watering with the hose after the 
application. 

The bed should not be cut from for two seasons ; 
thereafter it may be cut until mid-June. It is .better 
not to allow the plants to develop seed, as it will 
weaken the plants, and it is important not to disturb 
the earth in the alleyways too deeply, as the plants 
will send their roots right out into them. For the 
first two years radishes, lettuce, or even spinach may 
be grown in them, but for the first two years only. 

Forcing Asparagus. — Where there is sufficient 
space and labour it is not difficult to obtain a winter 
supply of this delicious vegetable. But as the plants 
can only be forced once, and then must be thrown 
away, it is necessary to devote a special bed to 
growing forcing plants. A quarter of the area of 
the bed must be sown yearly, thus providing for one, 
two, three, and four year old plants. Seed should 
be sown in early April, in rows two feet apart, and 
the plants should be left two feet in the rows. The 
general treatment is much as given above, except 
that the spring top-dressing of nitrate of soda must be 
limited to two applications, one in April, one in May. 

i6 



ASPARAGUS 

Beginning in November, prepare a hotbed as for 
cucumbers with about three feet of fermenting 
material ; when the heat is mild and even, spread 
three inches of light soil on top, lift the four-year- 
old plants, a few at a time, very carefully, and pack 
them into the frame as close as possible. Cover with 
four inches of light soil, and give a good watering 
with tepid water. Admit some air on mild days by 
lifting the back of the light ; if there be frost, cover 
with mats. Do not over-water the frame, but do not 
let it get really dry. If the heat dies away too soon, 
line with hot manure round the frame. Extra care 
will have to be exercised in cutting the heads ; in fact 
the best way is to remove the soil and break them 
off with the fingers. A frame so treated will yield 
asparagus for about four weeks, and when the 
asparagus is out of the way will grow early radishes, 
lettuce, and carrots. 

ITALIAN DISHES. 

Plain Asparagus. — Take a bundle of asparagus, 
scrape the white of each stalk lightly, put them in 
cold water. Then tie them in bundles of twenty-five, 
or, if very large, of twelve or fifteen, keep the heads 
together, and keep the ends of one length. Cook them 
quickly for fifteen minutes in two quarts of boiling 
water, in which one ounce of salt has been put. 
Dish up on a piece of toast and serve very hot with 
oiled fresh butter (not sauce) or Dutch sauce. 

Dutch Sauce. — Rub four ounces of butter to a cream 

17 B 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

in a saucepan or bowl, add four yolks of eggs, beat 
well together and put in half a teaspoonful of salt, the 
juice of half a lemon, a pinch of Cayenne, and a cup- 
ful of hot water, poured in by degrees, mix well, and put 
in a " bain-marie." Stir until the sauce becomes of the 
consistency of thick cream. Be careful it does not 
boil, or it will curdle. Take it off the fire and stir 
for some minutes. Dutch sauce ought to be quite 
smooth and creamy. Half these quantities of butter 
and eggs would make an excellent dish. 

Asparagus a I'EspagnoUe. — Cut off the green heads 
of a bunch of asparagus and wash well, boil for 
fifteen minutes in salted boiling water, strain carefully. 
Put in a saucepan two ounces of butter, stir in one 
good tablespoonful of flour, add half a pint of cream 
or milk, and a little pepper and salt. Stir carefully, 
let it boil for three minutes, add the asparagus heads 
and serve very hot. 

Asparagus a la Supreme. — Choose asparagus of 
about the same size, break off the tenderest part with 
your finger and cut into small bits, cooking the tips 
last. Put them into salted boiling water, boil for 
fifteen minutes, then drain, and place in a baking-pan 
with a little melted fresh butter. Put on the fire for 
a few minutes, add some salt and lemon juice. Serve 
hot. 

Asparagus k la Pompadour. — Cut cleaned asparagus 
into two-inch lengths, boil until tender in salted water, 
and drain. Bring to the boil two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar and one tablespoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper to season. When boiling, take from the fire, 

l8 



ASPARAGUS 

add the well-beaten yolk of an egg, pour over the 
asparagus, and serve. 

Asparagus Souffle. — Take some asparagus (previ- 
ously boiled) and rub it through a sieve. Add the yolks 
of three well-beaten eggs and three tablespoonfuls of 
milk, with pepper and salt to taste. Beat the whites to 
a stiff froth, mix in, add the asparagus pur6e, and put 
in buttered souffld dishes and bake for ten minutes. 
This makes a tasty course for a luncheon or dinner. 

Asparagus Omelette. — Beat six eggs, whites and yolks 
separately, add three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, 
cut the green part of thirty-six heads of asparagus 
(which have been previously boiled) in small pieces, 
mix with the eggs, add a spoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese, pepper, and cook in an omelette pan in which 
an ounce of butter has been dissolved. Serve very 
hot. 

Asparagus Omelette (2). — Break four eggs into a 
bowl and beat until Hght and foamy without separating 
whites and yolks. Add four tablespoonfuls of cream 
or rich milk, a saltspoonful of salt, and a dash of 
pepper. Have a smooth, clean omelette pan ready, 
and melt a tablespoonful of butter or vegetable oil in 
it, tilting it so that it will run all over the pan to 
grease the sides as well as the bottom. When hissing 
hot pour in the egg mixture. As it cools, prick in 
several places with a fork until the whole is of a 
creamy consistency. Have in readiness several 
spoonfuls of cooked asparagus points, mixed with a 
little melted butter, a few drops of lemon juice, 
and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Slip the 

19 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

omelette on to a sheet of kitchen paper on a hot 
dish, put on one-half the asparagus tips, fold over, 
and slip off the paper on to a hot dish and send 
to table quickly ; nothing spoils so quickly as an 
omelette. Three minutes waste of time makes it as 
tough as leather. If liked, the edges of the omelette 
may be garnished with more asparagus tips. 

Asparagus Mould. — Well butter a pudding mould, 
put in a layer of the tender part of cooked asparagus 
cut up small, next a layer of cooked green peas, then 
two hard boiled eggs cut in slices, another layer of 
asparagus, and lastly of peas. Beat up three eggs, 
stir in two ounces of flour rolled in one ounce of 
butter, add a cupful of milk, stirring all the time, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Pour the mixture into the 
mould, cover with buttered paper, steam for two hours, 
turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with white sauce 
round it. 

Asp^rge a la Mousseline. — Place cooked and well- 
drained asparagus on square or diamond slices of 
toast; keep hot. Prepare a sauce beforehand by heating 
two ounces of butter with the yolks of four eggs, and 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, salt and pepper to 
taste. Cook in a double pan until it thickens, then 
add two tablespoonfuls of butter in small pieces, and 
two tablespoonfuls of cream or a little more. Pour 
very hot over the asparagus and toast. Serve im- 
mediately. 

Baked Asparagus.— Cook the asparagus in boiling 
salted water until tender, drain, and put into a 
buttered baking-dish with a little grated Parmesan 

20 



ASPARAGUS 

cheese between the layers. Chop a small onion finely 
and fry in butter, and spread over the asparagus, and 
sprinkle with cheese and crumbs, and brown in a hot 
oven. 

Asparagus Baked with Cheese. — Prepare according 
to directions given for boiled asparagus. Make a 
sauce of three tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, 
one cupful of water and half a cupful of cream or 
milk, let it boil for three minutes, add the yolks of 
two eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 
Heat thoroughly but do not boil. Lay the asparagus 
full length into an oval buttered baking-dish, cover 
with the sauce, and sprinkle with cheese. Repeat 
until the dish is full, having sauce on the top. 
Sprinkle with crumbs and cheese, dot with butter, 
and bake for half an hour. 

Asparagus Tips k, la Polonaise. — Clean and cut 
some asparagus three or four inches long, season 
with salt and pepper, and put them in a buttered 
paper bag with a teaspoonful of fried breadcrumbs 
and a little melted butter. Close the bag and cook 
in a moderate oven for half an hour. — Newark 
News. 

Asparagus "Alia Oasalinga." — Take fifty heads of 
asparagus and cook the green part in boiling salted 
water, then drain and put the asparagus into a baking- 
dish with four ounces of butter (or two ounces would 
suffice). Sprinkle with grated cheese, salt and pepper 
to taste, brown slightly, garnish with eggs fried in 
butter. Serve hot. — Mrs. Ross, Leaves from a Tuscan 
Kitchen. 

21 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Asparagus "Alia Orema." — Take the heads only 
of the asparagus, as many as are required ; put them 
into boiling water with a little salt ; boil for fifteen 
minutes. Prepare meanwhile some thick squares of 
roll or white bread without the crust, scoop out the 
centre of each piece without breaking through, and 
put in a piece of butter, then fry or bake until the 
bread turns a golden-yellow colour. After draining 
the heads of the asparagus, place them in the holes 
in the bread. Take care to keep them hot. Then 
heat half a pint of milk and two or three yolks of 
eggs, and stir until it thickens to a smooth custard, 
but it must not boil. Take off the fire, and add a 
little butter and a sprinkling of salt and pepper. 
Pour over the asparagus and croutons, and serve 
very hot. — Mrs. Ross, Leaves from a Tuscan Kitchen. 

Baked Asparagus with Eggs. — Cut the tender 
parts of the asparagus into half-inch lengths, boil 
until tender in salted water. Drain, and mix with a 
drawn butter sauce, seasoning with salt and pepper, 
and pour into a buttered baking-dish. Break five 
or six eggs carefully on the surface, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and put into the oven until the 
eggs have set. 

Asparagus Tips Saut^. — Boil the tips until cooked, 
about fifteen minutes, in salted water, then drain them 
thoroughly. Saut6 in melted butter, season with salt 
and pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little sugar. 

Creamed Asparagus.— Boil the green parts of the 
asparagus until tender in salted water with a tiny bit 
of soda, drain and chop. Reheat in cream sauce. 

22 



ASPARAGUS 

Season with salt and pepper, and cool ; stir into it 
three eggs, well beaten, with two tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Pour into a buttered baking-dish, cover, and 
bake for twenty minutes, but do not let it boil ; then 
uncover and brown, 

CrSme Asparagus. — Cut the heads of the asparagus 
into two-inch lengths. Parboil for ten minutes in 
salted water and drain. Put a heaped tablespoonful 
of butter in a saucepan, when hot sprinkle with a 
tablespoonful of flour, add a cupful of boiling milk, 
salt and pepper to season ; cook until thick, stirring 
all the time. 

Asparagus with Egg Sauce. — Cook three cupfuls 
of aspaiagus tips until tender, and drain. Reheat 
one cupful of cream sauce, put the rest into a well- 
buttered baking-dish, pour over the asparagus, and 
set the dish in a pan of boiling water, and put into 
the oven for fifteen minutes. Sprinkle with parsley, 
and serve with egg sauce. 

Escalloped Asparagus. — Wash and cut up a bunch 
of asparagus, discarding the tough ends. Boil in 
salted water about twenty minutes until tender, and 
drain. Boil three eggs hard, throw into cold water, 
remove the shells, and chop finely. Butter a shallow 
baking-dish, and put in a layer of asparagus, covered 
with chopped eggs, sprinkle with grated cheese, 
repeat until the dish is full, having asparagus on the 
top. Pour over four tablespoonfuls of drawn butter 
or half a pint of cream sauce, cover with crumbs, 
dot with butter, sprinkle with grated cheese, and 
bake until brown. 

23 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Asparagus Fricassee.— Clean and cut up twenty- 
five stalks of asparagus, discarding the tough ends, 
drain and chop one head of lettuce, half a head of 
endive, and a small onion. Put a heaped table- 
spoonful of butter into a saucepan and cook in it a 
tablespoonful of flour, add one cupful of milk or 
water, and stir until it thickens. Stir constantly, 
add the chopped vegetables, with salt and pepper to 
season ; simmer over a slow fire for half an hour, 
and serve very hot. 

Ragout of Asparagus. — Chop finely a little parsley, 
two or three young onions, and a few leaves of 
lettuce, fry them brown in butter, dredge with flour, 
add a cupful of water, and salt and pepper to season. 
Reheat the cooked asparagus in this sauce, sprinkle 
with grated nutmeg, and serve very hot. 

Asparagus {American Recipe). — Take thick slices 
of bread about two inches thick, and stamp them 
out into neat rounds with a biscuit cutter ; with a 
smaller cutter mark a circle in the centre of each, 
round and scoop out the crumbs to the depth of an 
inch, taking care to leave the sides and bottom quite 
firm ; arrange these in a shallow dish and pour over 
them half a pint of milk to which a beaten egg has 
been added. Then take up carefully and fry in 
a frying-basket in a pan of boiling fat. They will 
brown immediately, and must be removed when a 
pale golden brown ; drain on kitchen paper. Cut the 
tender part of the asparagus into pieces of an equal 
size, rejecting that which is woody. Wash, and 
simmer in salted water until tender, and drain. Put 

24 



BASIL 

a heaped tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan 
with a heaped tablespoonful of flour, then add a 
quarter of a pint of the water in which the asparagus 
was cooked; let it come to the boil and add the 
asparagus, the juice of a lemon, and one teaspoonful 
of finely-chopped parsley. Fill the canapes with this 
mixture and arrange on a dish and garnish with cress 
or parsley and sliced lemon. 

Asparagus a la Tartare. — Cool cooked asparagus 
on ice, and serve very cold with mayonnaise or 
Tartare sauce. 

Tartare Sauce. — Mix six tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 
two of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of French mustard, 
salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch of sugar. Bring 
to the boil and pour hot over boiled and drained 
asparagus. Cover, stand on ice, and serve very cold. 

Asparagus k la Tyson. — Boil the asparagus in salted 
water, drain, cut the strings, and arrange on buttered 
toast. Cook together a tablespoonful each of butter 
and flour, add a cupful of the water in which the 
asparagus was boiled, and cook until thick, stirring 
constantly. Season with salt, red and black pepper, 
and pour over the asparagus and serve. 

BASIL [Ocymum Basilicum. Labiates). 

Sow in pans in a hotbed in April. Transplant 
in May into a light, rich border, setting the plants 
nine inches apart. The flower stems should be cut 
as soon as ready and dried for winter use, in the 
way of lavender. They are used for seasoning, as 

25 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

also are the young leaves, which the plants will con- 
tinue to grow until the frosts. 



BROAD BEAN ( Vida Faba. Leguminosm). 

Broad beans may be grown in any good garden 
soil, but they prefer a rich, well-drained loam. A 
sandy loam will produce early and mid-season crops, 
but will be found to be too hot for late crops ; while 
a heavy soil is more suited to mid-season and late 
crops than to early ones. 

The ground for beans should be prepared early in the 
autumn, and in light soils plenty of manure trenched 
in will keep the plants growing through a dry season. 
In a light soil a sowing may be made during open 
weather in mid-December, This early sowing gives 
the beans time to get their roots well down, out 
of the reach of drought, and will yield in June, but 
about once in five years frost and damp will destroy 
the whole sowing. 

In normal soils February is perhaps early enough 
to make the first sowing, and in heavier ground, 
March. Where there is plenty of space, if late beans 
are in great request, sowings may be made till mid- 
June in heavy soils, but in moderately light ground 
it is not worth while to sow after April. March and 
April are the best months, however, in the generality 
of gardens for successional sowings. 

Where an extra early supply is needed, sow in 
boxes in gentle heat, early in February ; grow on 
in cold frames as soon as up ; harden off and plant 

26 



BROAD BEANS 

out early in March. A sheltered and warm border 
must be chosen for this planting, and the plants 
should be set in rows two feet apart, the plants six 
inches in the row. This procedure should provide 
broad beans about the 14th of June, 

Some gardeners plant beans with a dibber, but 
it is much better practice to open out a trench six 
inches wide with the hoe, and place the beans in this 
trench in two rows, the beans nine inches apart in 
the row, and set W fashion. This method ensures 
the seed being planted at an even depth, and obviates 
any poaching of the soil by the dibber, which always 
tends to leave a cylindrical hole with compressed 
sides. The double rows of beans should be thirty 
inches apart. 

In June, when the beans are well in flower, they 
are too often attacked by the black aphis. This may 
be washed off and killed by syringing with an emul- 
sion of soft soap and paraffin. It is good practice 
to break off the infected tops and burn them. Top- 
ping the plants will be no detriment, but will throw 
the strength back into the pods already forming. 
Finally, gather the beans as soon as they are at all 
large enough to cook ; old beans are good, but young 
beans are far better. 

DISHES. 

Boiled Broad Beans are best when gathered young, 
about two-thirds grown ; the flavour is then very 
delicate. Some consider this plan wasteful, but it is 
not so, really, as if one waits for the crop to attain 

27 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

its full size, an enormous quantity of beans are ready 
at once. By beginning early one can keep pace with 
nature. 

Shell the beans, and put them into boiling water 
with one tablespoonful of salt and a very small piece 
of soda. Boil for ten minutes if very young, increas- 
ing the length of time as they grow older. Drain 
and heap up on a drainer, pour over parsley sauce, 
and serve very hot. 

Parsley Sauce. — Pick and wash some fresh parsley, 
dip into boiling water for a minute, place in the 
corner of a towel, and wring out. This process 
eliminates some of the bitter flavour, and saves the 
trouble of boiling the parsley. Chop with a 
Lightning Mince Cutter. Make a good white sauce 
{see Sauces), put in the chopped parsley, stir well, 
and pour over the beans. 

Polenta Beans. — Boil two cupfuls of haricot or 
butter beans, which have soaked overnight, until soft, 
drain, add two tablespoonfuls of molasses, a tea- 
spoonful each of salt, mustard, and olive oil, pepper 
to taste, and a little vinegar. Cook in a baking- 
dish in the oven for twenty minutes and serve very 
hot. 

Cream Beans. — Soak one pint of haricot or butter 
beans overnight in cold water, drain and boil until 
soft in salted water. Haricots will take two or three 
hours, butter beans about one and a half hours. Press 
through a sieve, and mix with a sufficient quantity 
of cream sauce to make very soft, season with salt 
and pepper, add two eggs well beaten, turn into a 

28 



BROAD BEANS 

buttered baking-dish, sprinkle with crumbs, dot with 
butter, and bake brown. 

Broad Bean Puddingy. — When broad beans get too 
old for eating plain, boil them and rub them through 
a sieve, pound smoothly with a little pepper and salt, 
some cream, and the yolk of one egg, boil one hour 
in a buttered basin that will just hold the mixture, 
and serve with parsley sauce. 

French Bean Curry. — Cook your beans and drain, 
and when cold add other cold vegetables that may 
be left over, carrots, peas, &c., mix them with butter 
and onions, previously cooked together, add a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder and a little flour, let them 
simmer a long time, adding a little stock as the 
moisture dries up, then serve as a curry, with well- 
boiled rice separately. 

Haricot Beans. — Soak twelve hours, boil three 
hours, and serve with " piquante " sauce. 

Broad Beans {South American Dish). — Take one pint 

of shelled beans, and put them into boiling water. 

Boil rapidly for six or seven minutes, then drain 

and skin them. Put into a stewpan one ounce of 

butter and a small onion finely chopped, let them 

sweat for five minutes. Add six button mushrooms 

finely chopped and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 

stir in an ounce of flour and a little salt and pepper, 

a teaspoonful of lemon juice and a teacupful of boiling 

water; add the beans, and simmer gently for fifteen 

minutes ; just before serving add a wineglassful of 

sherry. 

Bean Souffle {Haricot). — Soak two cupfuls of dry 
29 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

haricot beans overnight, and boil until soft in water 
to cover, about three hours, changing the water once. 
Drain, press through a sieve, season with salt and 
pepper, add a little butter, and four tablespoonfuls 
of hot milk, and mix well. Fold-in the stiffly-beaten 
whites of two eggs, turn into a buttered baking-dish, 
bake for twenty minutes. 

Bean Croquettes {Haricot). — Boil two cupfuls of 
butter or haricot beans until soft, two or three hours, 
drain, press through a sieve, season with salt and red 
pepper, and add one tablespoonful each of molasses 
and vinegar, mix thoroughly, cool and shape into 
croquettes, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, fry in butter, 
and serve with tomato sauce. 



FRENCH BEANS {Phaseolus vulgaris. Leguminosce). 

French or kidney beans may be sown in April if 
an early sort be chosen and a sunny bed selected. 
The rows should be thirty inches apart, and the 
plants thinned to nine inches in the rows ; as they 
will transplant well, gaps can be made up where there 
have been failures. For later sorts the plants should 
be at least a foot apart. The main sowings should 
be made from about the 20th of April till the end 
of May in light soils, in heavy ground they may be 
sown right through June ; for later sowings choose 
quick-growing, forcing varieties. If climbing varieties 
be used the rows must be four or five feet apart, and 
sticks provided for the plants to climb over. Catch 
crops of early lettuce may be planted between the 

30 



SCARLET RUNNER BEAN 
rows at the time of sowing (or the beans may be 
set between rows of established lettuce plants). 
Radishes and mustard and cress are other crops 
which may be grown between rows of kidney beans 
with advantage. 

Flageolet and Haricot Beans need the same treat- 
ment as kidney beans. All these subjects are tender 
and will not stand frost. 

Forcing Kidney Beans. — The dwarf forcing varieties 
may be sown on hotbeds, with six inches of good 
Soil on top, beginning in February. They must have 
plenty of air on mild days, and not be over-watered; 
at the same time they must not be allowed to dry 
out ; the plants may stand a foot apart. Gathering 
should begin in such a frame about the end of April. 

If there be an orchard-house available the beans 
may be sown in heat in boxes in February, and 
transplanted to the orchard-house. Or beans sown 
in this way in March may be transplanted to a 
warm border sheltered from slight frosts, with the 
possibility of giving ample protection from sharp 
frost by means of mats or litter overhead. But after 
all, forcing kidney beans is a job that requires a good 
deal of time or of labour, and is hardly for the single- 
handed gardener. 



SCARLET RUNNER BEAN {Phaseolus multiflorus. 

Leguminosce) . 

This noble bean gives the most reliable crop of 
late summer and early autumn vegetables. It is easy 

31 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

to grow, and cottage and hall alike enjoy its succulent 
fruit. There are many new and improved varieties, 
and it is now possible to grow beans a foot long, an 
inch deep, and as tender as possible. 

The best runners are grown in soil trenched and 
manured some months in advance, but where space 
is a consideration we find that they follow spring 
cabbage well. By clearing the middle row of three 
in a bed of cabbage, room will be found to open a 
trench fifteen inches wide and two spits deep ; this 
should be done late in April. Into the bottom of 
this trench a heavy dressing of very old, buttery 
manure (such as comes from the heart of an exhausted 
hotbed) should be dug deeply. The soil should 
then be returned and trodden firm, until the trench 
is four inches deep ; rake the surface level and place 
the beans on it in two rows, the beans nine inches 
apart in the row, or even a foot will be none too far 
apart. Then return most of the rest of the earth, 
leaving a trench one inch below the general level 
of the garden. This leaves a useful depression for 
watering. 

By the time the beans are well up and are ready 
for staking, the cabbage will be mostly cleared away, 
and will have taken no harm from their neighbours ; 
indeed there need be no hurry to clear the last of 
the cabbages, which may prove useful to the end 
of June. A long, strong stake should be placed by 
each bean, and thrust a good foot into the ground. 
These stakes should incline inwards from each side 
of the double row, and be tied together at their inter- 

32 



SCARLET RUNNER BEAN 

section. These ties should be at a uniform height, 
and in the V-shaped crossing of the stakes other 
stakes should be laid lengthways, and also tied to 
the uprights. By these means a rigid hedge is pro- 
vided, which will carry the great weight of haulm in 
safety. A second sowing may be made about the 
end of May, but if the beans are kept rigorously 
picked the plants will go on bearing right up to the 
early frosts. As the haulm reaches the tops of the 
stakes it must be pinched, in order to make it break 
from joints lower down. Weeds should be pulled 
up, and in dry weather a good soaking of water 
every three days will be a great help in promoting 
the setting of the beans. 

Make a practice of gathering all the beans as fast as 
they come to perfection ; it is important that none 
should be allowed to mature seed ; one pod with ripe 
seed on a plant will certainly check the further growth 
of fresh beans. 

DISHES. 

French Beans en Fricass^. — Cut off the ends and 
strings of some young French beans. Cook them in 
salted water, then drain them well. Put them into a 
saucepan with two ounces butter and chopped onion, 
or if liked, garhc and parsley chopped very fine, with a 
little salt. Be careful to add some sauce if the beans 
dry up before they are completely cooked. Toss them 
in the pan for a few minutes, and before taking them 
off the fire add the yolks of one or two eggs (accord- 
ing to the quantity of beans) well beaten up, with a 

33 C 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

little water, the juice of a lemon, and some grated 
Parmesan cheese. Stir from time to time, never 
allowing them to boil, or the eggs will set. To keep 
the beans a good colour, put a pinch of salt, with a 
pinch of soda, in the water when boiling them. 

French Beans al Pomodoro. — Take your French 
beans, cut off the ends and string. Wash in cold 
water, boil till tender, and drain. While still wet, put 
them into a baking-dish with some good olive oil, 
some chopped onion and parsley, salt and pepper to 
taste. Put the dish on the fire with the cover on, 
and cook slowly. As the beans dry add the juice 
of some tomatoes or some good tomato conserve. 
Take care they do not burn. 

Beans with Cream. — Cut off the ends, remove the 
strings, and cut into two or three pieces. Wash in 
cold water, drain, and boil until tender in salted 
water. Beat the yolks of three eggs, add half a 
cupful of cream, and a tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Heat thoroughly and add gradually a table- 
spoonful of vinegar ; when smooth and thick pour 
over the beans, keep hot a few minutes, and serve. 

Beans with Parsley. — String the beans, cut in 
strips, and cook until tender, then put them in 
melted butter. Sprinkle with minced parsley, keep 
warm for ten minutes, and serve. 

Beans k la Bretonne. — Prepare according to 
directions given for beans with cream, using one 
quart of beans, drain and re-heat with a table- 
spoonful each of butter and chopped onion ; brown 
slightly. Season with minced parsley, pepper, and 

34 



BEETROOT 

salt, add the juice of a lemon and a cupful of white 
stock or hot milk. Serve immediately. 

How to Preserve French Beans. — The strings 
should be pulled off. Wash them, then cook them 
for ten minutes in boiling water. Take them out, 
and pour cold water over them, dry them, and put 
them into jars, and fill to the brim with salted water ; 
cover, and tie up the tops, put the jars into hot 
water for an hour and a half without ever letting 
them actually boil or the jars might be cracked. 
They should be placed in a deep enough pan, so as 
to cover the jars to the necks. 

French Beans Boiled. — String, and cut in cross- 
way slices two pounds of French beans, put into 
abundance of boiling water, to which one table- 
spoonful of salt and a piece of soda the size of a 
pea have been added ; this preserves the fresh 
green. If there is not plenty of water the beans will 
not cook properly. Boil for twenty minutes to half 
an hour. Drain through a colander and serve on 
a drainer. 

French Beans Saut6. — Boil as above ; after draining, 
return to the saucepan. Add a sprinkle of pepper 
and a tablespoonful of butter ; shake well for three 
minutes and serve very hot. 

BEETROOT {Beta vulgaris. Chenopodiacea). 

As with all root crops, a soil fairly free from 
stones is preferred ; a stony ground will produce 
malformed roots. A light sandy loam will grow the 

35 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

best beet, but any good garden soil will answer 
excellently. There should be no recent manure in 
the two upper spits, but a slight dressing of old 
manure beneath the second spit will work wonders. 

A giant beet is far from desirable for cooking, as 
it requires such a monstrous great pan, since, if the 
taproot be broken, the beet will bleed and lose all its 
colour, and the cook will send anaemic-looking slabs 
of garnishing on the salads. Probably th6re is no 
better beet for private growing than Nutting's dwarf 
red. The turnip-rooted beets are compact, it is true, 
but we do not think they can compare with this for 
flavour or tender texture. 

Sow beet during April in shallow drills a foot 
apart, single the seedlings in May, and thin out 
three weeks later to eight inches distance. Keep the 
ground free from weeds by means of frequent use 
of the Dutch hoe. The roots may be used as soon 
as large enough, and the whole crop must be lifted 
in September, or early October. Choosing a bright 
dry day, lift them with a long fined fork most care- 
fully, trim the leaves off two inches from the crown, 
and store in sand in a cool, frost-proof cellar. The 
utmost care must be taken not to bruise or break 
the roots. 

Swiss Chard or Leaf Beet. — Three hundred years 
ago, before the introduction of beetroot, beets were 
grown for their foliage only, and Gerarde, who wrote 
in 1597, tells us that "the leaves were eaten as salad 
with oil and vinegar. " 

The cultivation is much the same as for root beet, 

36 



BEETROOT 

except that it can stand naore manure, as it is the 
foliage which is required, and the ground does not 
need much preparation. At the end of the summer 
the leaves can be gathered, and, with a little protection 
from frost, the plants will bear for a long time. 

The leaves can be eaten for salad or cooked like 
spinach with a Httle sorrel, and the midribs are 
treated as sea kale or cardoons. It will thus be 
seen it is a very useful plant. — W. F. Giles, Sutton 
and Sons, Reading. 

ITALIAN DISHES. 

Beet Leaves Boiled. — Take the young leaves of 
white beetroot, tie them in bunches, and put them 
into salted boihng water. They can be cooked in 
butter like Spinach, or served on buttered toast with 
Sauce Hollandaise. 

Beet " Gnocchi." — Wash well and remove the mid- 
ribs of a bundle of beet leaves, boil, and then throw 
them into cold water, dry, and mince them very finely, 
put them into an earthenware pot with four ounces 
of freshly grated cheese, four fresh eggs, four ounces 
of curds or fresh milk cheese, a little grated nutmeg, 
and some salt. When thick, put it on a well-floured 
table and make a long roll the size of a finger, cut 
into pieces about two inches long, flour them well, 
and throw them into an earthen pot of boiling water. 

As they come to the surface take them out, drain 
well, season with butter, a little grated nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, and cheese. These must be cooked over a hot 
fire. — Leaves from a Tuscan Kitchen. 

37 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Boiled Beetroot. — Select small, smooth beets and 
clean without cutting or scraping them. Boil for an 
hour or two, and cool. Remove the skins, cut them 
into slices, and serve either cold, or reheat in melted 
butter with salt, pepper, vinegar, chopped parsley and 
a little chopped, boiled onion added to season it. 

Stewed Beetroot. — Prepare according to the direc- 
tion given for boiled beets, and cut into thin slices. 
Cook together a tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour, add a cupful of water and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar. Cook until thick, stirring constantly. Season 
with salt and pepper, heat the beets in the sauce, and 
serve with small button onions parboiled, and fried 
brown in butter and sugar. 

Another method. — Prepare according to directions 
given for boiled beets. When peeled and sliced re- 
heat, with salt, pepper and vinegar to taste, a boiled 
onion chopped fine, and a little minced parsley ; add 
a little flour cooked in butter and simmer slowly for 
fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. 

Cream Beets. — Cook small white beets in salted 
water until tender. Rinse in cold water, rub off 
the skins, and re-heat in cream sauce, or cut boiled 
beet into dice and mix with the sauce, adding more 
butter. 

Oreme Sauce. — A mixture of Bechamel Sauce. (See 
Sauce, p. 208.) Let it cool and then add two table- 
spoonfuls of cream and the yolk of one egg. 

Baked Beets. — Wash without peeling, and bake 
slowly until done. Remove the skin, cut into slices, 
and season with melted butter, salt, and pepper. 

38 



BEETROOT 

Serve very hot, with a little vinegar or sugar added 
to the seasoning, or serve whole with seasoned, melted 
butter. 

Beets with Sour Sauce. — Prepare according to 
directions given for boiled beets, blend a heaped 
teaspoonful of cornflour with a little cold water, mix 
with a scant cupful of vinegar, bring to the boil, 
and cook till thick, stirring constantly. Add a tea- 
spoonful each of butter and sugar to the sauce, and 
season with salt and pepper. Pour over the beets, 
and serve very hot in a covered dish. Less vinegar 
may be used, adding water as needed, and the sugar 
can be omitted also. 

Pickled Beets. — (i) Wash small beets, but do not 
cut or scrape them. Cover with boiling water and boil 
until tender. Drain, rinse in cold water. Rub off 
the peel with your fingers, cut into slices, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, cover with vinegar and let them 
stand for several hours before using. Serve cold. 

(2) Boil two cupfuls of vinegar with a few 
cloves and peppercorns, a blade of mace, a tiny 
bit of ginger root. Take from the fire and add 
two cupfuls more of vinegar, and cool. Two table- 
spoonfuls of grated horse-radish and sugar to taste 
may be added. Prepare the beets according to direc- 
tions given for boiled beets, and when peeled and 
sliced cover with the spiced vinegar. Let these stand 
for several hours before using. 

Beets with Pink Sauce. — Prepare according to 
directions given for boiled beets. Peel and cut into 
dice, saving the juice. Make a drawn-butter sauce, 

39 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

seasoning with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Re- 
heat the beets in the sauce until the sauce is coloured. 

Beet Saut6. — Prepare according to directions given 
for boiled beets. When peeled and sliced fry in 
butter, seasoning with pepper and sugar, serve hot. 

Beets Green. — Use young beets, no larger than a 
walnut. Don't cut off the tops. Wash thoroughly in 
several waters, using salt water first. Cook quickly 
in salted water until tender, drain, cut off the tops, 
and skin the beets by plunging into cold water and 
rubbing off the skins. Drain the greens, cut them 
up, and mix with the beets, season with salt and 
pepper, add melted butter and vinegar or lemon juice. 
Garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve cold. 

Beets k la Barbette. — Wash the beets and cook 
in boiling salted water until tender, leaving on a 
portion of the stalk. Rub off the peel, slice, season 
with salt, pepper, and brown sugar, and a little cara- 
way seed. Pour over vinegar to taste, and let them 
stand several hours before using. For a relish beets 
may be chopped fine and mixed with an equal 
quantity of grated horse-radish. 

Beets k la Bechamel. — Prepare according to direc- 
tions given for boiled beets, and reheat in Bechamel 
sauce. 

Beets a la Chartreuse. — Prepare according to direc- 
tions for boiled beets. Cut a very thin slice of 
onion for every two slices of beet, and sandwich a 
slice of onion between each two, pressing together 
gently. Season with salt, pepper^ and vinegar, dip 
in butter, and fry slowly in deep fat, or butter, or oil. 

40 



BORAGE 

Beets k la St. Laurence. — Previously prepare ac- 
cording to boiled beets. Fry a chopped onion in 
butter, dredge with flour, add two cupfuls of vege- 
table stock or milk, and cook until thick, stirring con- 
stantly. Add the beets, salt and pepper to taste, 
and cook for ten minutes ; add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and one of vinegar, bring to the boil, and 
serve. 

Beet-greens or Tops k I'Anglaise. — Wash thor- 
oughly and pick apart tender young beet tops. Cook 
until tender in a covered saucepan, using only enough 
melted butter to keep from burning. When tender, 
season with pepper and salt, add melted butter. 
Garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

BORAGE {Boraginace(s). 

Sow in March and April in any ordinary garden 
soil in shallow drills a foot apart. Thin out the 
seedlings to a foot apart and keep the ground hoed 
between. The young leaves are used for claret, 
champagne, ginger ale cups, and as flavouring and 
garnishing for salads. 

Borecole or Kale. — For culture see under Cabbage. 

Broccoli. — For culture see under Cabbage. 

BROCCOLI DISHES. 

Boiled Broccoli. — To each half gallon of water 
allow one tablespoonful of salt and a tiny bit of 
soda ; strip off the outside leaves, cut ofif the inside 
ones level with the flower ; cut off the stalks close to 

41 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the bottoms, and put the broccoli into cold salted 
water or vinegar and water, heads downwards, let 
them remain for about three-quarters of an hour, then 
put them into a saucepan of boiling water salted in 
the above proportion, and keep them boiling gently 
with the stalks upwards and the saucepan uncovered. 
Take up with a slice the moment they are done, 
drain well, and serve with a tureen of melted butter, 
a little of which should be poured over the broccoli. 
If left in the water after it is done the broccoli will 
break, its colour, will be spoilt, and its crispness lost. 
If boiled too fast it will break. 

Note. — It is a good plan to place a small piece of 
toast or bread in the saucepan in which green vege- 
tables are boiled, as this absorbs the unpleasant odour 
generated during the cooking. 

Broccoli au Gratin. — Boil the broccoli according to 
directions, put in a tureen, and sprinkle over a little 
pepper and quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan 
cheese, put in the oven for five minutes until the 
cheese is melted. 

Mould of Broccoli. — Butter a mould, and put in 
the parboiled flower broken in smallish pieces, pour 
in a good white sauce in which two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese have been dissolved, a squeeze of 
lemon juice, and two hard-boiled eggs chopped up ; 
the eggs should be placed among the broccoli ; pour 
in the sauce, cover with buttered paper, and steam 
for one hour or bake for half an hour. 

Brussels Sprouts. — For culture, see under Cabbage. 



42 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS DISHES. 

Boiled Brussels Sprouts. — Wash and pick over the 
sprouts and boil until tender (about twenty minutes to 
half an hour), in water to which a little salt and a pinch 
of soda have been added. Drain, and reheat with an 
ounce of butter with a little salt and pepper, but do 
not fry them. 

Brussels Sprouts with Cream Sauce. — Trim off the 
loose leaves and soak for half an hour in cold salted 
water. Boil in sufficient water to cover them, add 
a little salt and a piece of soda the size of a pea, season 
with pepper, and pour over a cupful of cream sauce. 
Simmer for five or ten minutes and serve, or reheat 
in Bechamel sauce, or in melted butter. 

Brussels Sprouts Saut6. — (i) Boil the cleaned sprouts 
for twenty minutes in salted water with a pinch of 
soda, drain, fry in butter. Season with minced parsley 
and pepper, and serve. Grated nutmeg may be 
added or one or two spoonfuls of white wine vinegar. 

(2) Clean and trim one quart of sprouts and soak in 
cold water for half an hour. Then cook for half an 
hour in salted boiling water with a little soda ; drain, 
and add three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Sprinkle with 
pepper, and shake the pan over the fire until they are 
slightly coloured. Serve at once. 

Brussels Sprouts with Cream.— Prepare the sprouts 
according to directions given for boiled sprouts, 
drain and reheat with a little Bechamel sauce, 
season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; heat 
thoroughly, add a little cream, bring slowly to the 
boil, and serve. 

43 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Brussels Sprouts au Gratin. — Prepare according 
to directions given for Brussels sprouts with cream 
sauce. Put in a buttered baking-dish. Sprinkle with 
crumbs, dot with butter, and brown in the oven. 

Brussels Sprouts alia Parmesan. — Boil the sprouts 
until tender in salted water, and drain. Arrange in 
a baking-dish with alternate layers of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Season with salt, pepper, and melted butter, 
and serve very hot. 

Brussels Sprouts alia Ohipolata.— Wash and trim 
one quart of Brussels sprouts, cook for five minutes 
in boiling salted water with a pinch of soda. Drain 
and rinse in cold water. Drain and recook in 
boiling water to cover. Cook for twelve minutes and 
drain very dry. Serve with melted butter poured over. 

CABBAGE {Brassica Oleracea. Crucifera). 

It seems better to deal with the culture of the gene- 
rality of Brassicas together, and to first speak of the 
conditions under which all flourish, noting any special 
requirement of a subject under its own heading. 

Cabbage-kind without any exception are greedy 
feeders, they like holding soil ; stiffish loam, even if 
it verges on clay, will suit them all. Waterlogged 
ground of course will not do for them ; heavy soil 
must be well drained to be of use. But they are none 
of them over particular ; given space, nourishment, and 
firm ground they will do well in any good garden soil. 

It is unwise to crop ground continuously with 
Brassicas, in which class turnips are included, as the 
disease called clubroot is apt to infest cabbage-stale 

44 



CABBAGE 

soil, and is difficult to overcome. Dressings of lime 
are a preventive of this, and in many soils should be 
applied every third winter, four pounds to a rod 
of land. Lime, indeed, is a most valuable aid to 
culture ; it sets free the nitrogenous constituents of 
the earth, and almost every kitchen crop is the better 
for its generous use. 

Speaking generally, ground should be prepared for 
cabbages by trenching in a good supply of fairly 
fresh manure some two or three months before 
planting, as the earth should have time to settle and 
consolidate, since a light open condition of the soil 
tends to produce lank, long-jointed greens, while firm 
ground will grow compact and well-shaped cabbage 
or sprout. 

Cabbage-kind is in season for every month of the 
year, though in July and August it is apt to be 
infested with green caterpillars, offspring of the 
common white butterfly, yet in these months there 
is such an abundance of other vegetables that then 
it is in least request. 

COMMON CABBAGE {Brassica olerata capitatd). 

There are two chief sowing months for cabbage, 
April and August, but the latter is far the most 
important from the point of view of the cook, as it pro- 
vides those exquisite spring cabbage, which, properly 
served, are among the very best of vegetables. 

At the end of March or the beginning of April, sow 
in the open a good compact variety of medium-sized 
cabbage. When the plants are large enough to 

45 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

handle, prick them out six inches apart in nursery 
beds, and plant in their permanent quarters in June 
and July. They should stand eighteen inches to two 
feet apart, according to the vigour of the variety 
selected. This comparatively early sowing will give 
early autumn cabbage. A late April sowing will 
provide plants which will heart in November and 
December. Cabbage follows peas or broad beans well, 
but we think that in the small garden it is wasteful to 
give too much room to autumn cabbage and so stint 
space for Brussels sprouts and autumn broccoli. 

In cold soils and in the north of England a sowing 
of Flower of Spring cabbage should be made about 
the twentieth of July, in southern England the seventh 
of August is a better date. These cabbage should be 
pricked out as soon as large enough, and planted in 
their permanent quarters in September, though even 
November is sometimes not too late. It is good 
practice to put these spring cabbage in rows fifteen 
inches apart in light soil, eighteen inches in heavier 
ground, and to crowd them in the row even as near as 
six inches apart. In this case two out of every three 
plants can be drawn to serve as winter greens, leaving 
the rest spaced eighteen inches 'distant to heart in 
April, May, and even June. 

After cutting cabbage, if there is no immediate need 
to pull up the stumps, a second crop of very delicious 
sprouts will in open weather quickly appear. 

Red Pickling Cabbage should be sown in April 
and treated as ordinary autumn cabbage. They must 
be put out quite thirty inches apart. 

46 



BROCCOLI 

Chow-Ohow or Chinese Cabbage.— It is cultivated in 
the same way as turnips. It succeeds best when sown 
about August in drills, with a space from twelve to 
eighteen inches between the rows, and the drills 
thinned out to about nine inches or one foot apart. 
The leaves can be eaten boiled like ordinary borecole, 
or the midribs can be sent to table like asparagus or 
chard or seakale beet. 



BROCCOLI {Brassica olerata Botrytis). 

This valuable subject is, in its hearting varieties, 
almost indistinguishable from cauliflower, from which 
it is probably derived, but it has the great added merit 
of hardiness. It requires similar soil and treatment to 
the rest of the cabbages, but a few special points 
about its culture should be noted. 

The first sowing of autumn and winter cropping 
varieties should be made in March in a cold frame. 
The plants must be pricked out and hardened off, and 
finally be planted in May in their permanent quarters. 
We find it good practice, in a small garden, to set 
them between the rows of early potatoes on the 
day they are finally earthed up. For this purpose the 
potato rows should be thirty inches apart, and the 
broccoli should be two feet apart in the row. When 
the potatoes are dug in July the earth is laid level 
round the stems of the broccoli, an ounce to the 
square yard of nitrate of soda is sprinkled round the 
plants, and the earth trodden firm. From this plant- 

47 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

ing fine heads may be cut in late September and 
sometimes on to December. 

The main sowing of Broccoli is made out of doors 
in April, when early and late spring flowering sorts 
should be sown, as well as purple sprouting broccoli. 
As soon as large enough rather more than sufficient 
plants should be pricked out into a nursery bed six 
inches apart, and these will follow green peas, or 
broad beans about mid-July, without any digging of 
the ground beyond a slight surface forking and 
levelling. They should be put out two feet apart in 
every way and be well watered in. Dwarf cabbage 
lettuce may be put out between at the same time ; they 
will be quickly cleared away. 

When the plants are starting growth in the spring, 
a sprinkling of nitrate of soda will help in the pro- 
duction of fine heads. It is also a good thing to give 
them a mulch of manure in early February. 

Cauliflower does not differ botanically from broc- 
coli, but it is more tender and diiScult. The heads 
have, perhaps, a more delicate quality, but we confess 
that in the small garden we now only grow the 
Autumn Giant Cauliflower, which comes in earlier 
than the broccoli, and we depend on the latter for the 
rest of the year. 

Cauliflower that are to be cut in the following 

summer should be sown about mid- August ; they 

must be well watered and weeded, and cold frames 

must be made ready for them, by placing six inches 

of good light soil over a layer of rubble or ash. In 

October, or early in November, set the plants four 

48 



BROCCOLI 

inches apart in these frames, and give a good water- 
ing ; if necessary keep shaded from excessive sun for 
a few days. Admit plenty of air, and do not let them 
dry out, but be sparing with the water-pot after the 
plants are once estabhshed. On fine warm days take 
the lights off altogether, keep closed during frost, and 
do not let fog have too free an entry ; pick any yellow 
leaves as they show. If frost is severe, cover with 
mats. Plant out at the end of March, two feet apart, 
in really rich soil in a warm border ; keep watered if 
necessary, and after they are well settled in give a 
dose of nitrate, half an ounce to the square yard, and 
repeat this a fortnight later during a shower if possible. 

For autumn use sow Autumn Giant in a frame 
and treat as prescribed for Brussels sprouts. A 
sowing of a quick variety in heat in February will 
give heads in summer ; they need to be kept growing 
all the time, and never to be checked by drought or 
cold or allowed to flag for want of water. 

Brussels Sprouts. — In the judgment of many this is 
the finest all round winter vegetable, and it is worth 
while going to considerable trouble to grow it well. 
It needs good soil, plenty of nourishment, and a long 
growing season to bring it to perfection. Ground 
which has been trenched and heavily manured in the 
late winter will grow the best sprouts, and in large 
gardens it is well worth while to reserve a plot for 
them, off which possibly spinach, or some quick crop 
such as lettuce or radishes, may be gathered before 
May. But well consolidated rich soil is necessary to 
the growth of sprouts. 

49 D 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Where there is space and it is desired to have 
Brussels sprouts as early as September, a sowing 
should be made in mild heat at the end of January. 
The plants should be pricked out in a cold frame 
early in March and planted in their permanent position 
by the end of the month, choosing a well sheltered 
sunny bed. 

There is no doubt, however, that Brussels sprouts 
should have a frost on them before they are really fit 
to eat, and the vegetable cannot, normally, be had in 
perfection before the middle of October. For this 
crop and the main crop generally sow in a frame 
about the second week of March, prick out four 
inches apart into boxes which have an inch layer of 
old manure at bottom and three or four inches of 
light rich compost on top. Harden these off gradu- 
ally, keep them growing on in the open, never letting 
them get dry, and plant out at the end of April or 
the beginning of May, thirty inches apart in every 
direction. Beyond keeping them free from weeds, 
nothing more is needed, and this sowing will keep the 
gardener going until February, for short- jointed, well- 
ripened Brussels sprout plants are among the very 
hardiest of our winter vegetables. - 

If late sprouts are required, a sowing out of doors 
early in April will give the necessary plants for a late 
succession, but it is a crop that cannot be hurried or 
forced ; Brussels sprouts must have a long growing 
season. 

In the small garden the March sowing will be 
sufficient; and the plants may be put out between the 

5° 



BORECOLE 

rows of early potatoes. With care, we find this 
extremely good practice, especially if the potato 
ground has had a good preparation with kainit as 
well as manure. If the potato haulm gets too 
vigorous and shows signs of smothering the sprouts 
we lay it by hand along the ridge tops, and when the 
potatoes are lifted we give a dose of nitrate and 
tread the ground as recommended for broccoli. A 
further sprinkle of nitrate is given during showers in 
August. 

BORECOLE or KALE [Brassica oleracea acephald). 

This is a section of extremely hardy cabbages well 
calculated to withstand the hardest weather, and to 
provide winter greens in abundance, as well as the 
most delicious sprouts in spring. Indeed the side 
shoots which sprout forth in March are perhaps the 
most precious part of the yield of these subjects. 

Cottagers, Scotch and Dwarf-curled Kale are per- 
haps the most useful varieties. The first two are 
taller and require more space than the last. The 
sowing time for all is in April ; they should be sown 
out of doors, pricked out in a nursery-bed as soon as 
large enough, and planted out as ground comes 
vacant from summer crops. The taller sorts should 
be put thirty inches apart, the dwarfer kinds may be 
in rows two feet apart and the plants twenty inches in 
the row, but in strong soils two feet should be a 
minimum distance. 

The cabbage tops of the kale can be gathered at 

51 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

any time during the winter, and if the stumps are left 
in the ground many dishes of side shoots will be 
gathered in March. 

Oouve Tronchuda or Portugal Cabbage. — This is a 
most delicious variety, and should be sown in early 
April, and planted in rich soil as soon as large 
enough ; the plants should stand at least two feet 
apart. Much depends on continuous growth ; the 
plants do not come to great perfection if they suffer 
an undue check. In the autumn the head makes a 
first-rate cabbage, and the thick midribs of the 
larger leaves make an unusual and excellent dish if 
thoroughly cooked (an hour at least) and served with 
white sauce in the manner of seakale. This subject 
does not stand frost well and should be cleared off the 
ground by Christmas. 

SAVOY CABBAGE {Brassica olerata bullatd). 

Savoys should be sown out of doors in April and 
treated as autumn cabbage. They are nearly allied to 
the Brussels sprouts arid require some frost to bring 
them to perfection ; they may be considered early 
winter cabbage. 

CABBAGE DISHES. 

Baked Cabbage. — (i) Boil cabbage till tender in 
two waters. Drain and set aside until cool, then 
chop finely. Mix together two beaten eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, a saltspoonful of salt, and a 
dash of paprika. Stir this into the chopped cabbage 

52 



CABBAGE DISHES 

and put it into a buttered pudding-dish, sprinkle 
bread crumbs over the top, and bake until brown. 

(2) Boil the cabbage until tender, changing the 
water once, drain, cut it finely, season with salt and 
pepper. Butter a baking-dish, put in a layer of 
cabbage, and cover with cream or tomato sauce. 
Sprinkle with crumbs on the top, and bake for half 
an hour. 

(3) Trim and quarter a head of cabbage, boil until 
tender in salted water to cover. Drain thoroughly, 
and put into a baking-dish. Pour over a cupful of 
cream, a tablespoonful of butter. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Make a hollow in the centre and break 
an egg into it. Bake in the oven until the cabbage is 
brown and the egg set. 

Steamed Cabbage. — Wash and chop up a cabbage, 
put it in the boilerette with salt, pepper, and an 
ounce of nutter. Steam for two hours. 

Fricass6 of Cabbage. — Boil and chop, as in the last 
recipe, and keep hot while you cook together in a 
saucepan a tablespoonful of butter and a tablespoonful 
of flour, stir in a cupful of hot milk, stir to a smooth 
sauce, when it bubbles turn into this the chopped 
cabbage, cook for a minute, season and serve. 

Shredded Cabbage. — Cut a cabbage into shreds and 
put it into boiling salted water until tender, drain, and 
stand in a heated colander on the side of the range. 
Cook together two tablespoonfuls of butter and two 
heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, season with salt and 
pepper, and stir in three heaped tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese, and cook, stirring constantly for just 

S3 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

one minute. Turn the cabbage into a deep vegetable- 
dish and pour the cheese sauce over it. 

Cabbage Cream Salad. — Prepare as in the preced- 
ing recipe ; after boiUng cut the shreds into lengths 
before dropping them into cold water. Beat half a pint 
of cream very stiff, drain the cabbage, sprinkle lightly 
with salt, and stir it into the whipped cream, turning 
and tossing until it is thoroughly coated with the 
white foam. Serve at once with crackers. The 
cabbage should be tender and crisp for this dish. 

Cabbage Soup. — Take a small onion and a little 
parsley and a sprig of rosemary, chop all very fine 
and put in a saucepan to brown, with one ounce of 
butter. Have ready a cabbage washed and cut finely, 
put the cabbage into a saucepan, add three pints of 
water or vegetable stock, and season with pepper and 
salt, and let all stew together for an hour. Boil for 
a quarter of an hour before serving, add one ounce of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Serve with croutons of bread. 

Hot Cabbage Slaw. — (i) Chop half a cabbage finely ; 
after boiling pour over a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, and put into the oven. Beat together one 
teaspoonful of mustard and one tablespoonful of olive 
oil, one tablespoonful of sugar and one egg well beaten 
with three-quarters of a cupful of cream. Bring to 
the boil, season with salt and pepper, pour over the 
hot cabbage, and serve. 

(2) Bring a cupful of vinegar to the boil, add a 
teaspoonful each of butter and sugar, half a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, salt and black pepper 
to taste. Pour over the cabbage which has been 

54 



CABBAGE DISHES 

shredded very finely after being boiled; heat 
thoroughly, and serve. 

(3) Boil a shredded cabbage until tender in salted 
water to cover. Drain thoroughly, pressing out all 
the liquid. Bring to the boil half a cupful of vinegar, 
half a tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper 
to season highly. Pour over the cabbage, mix 
thoroughly, and serve. 

(4) Mix together the beaten yolk of an egg, a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, a cupful of cream, a table- 
spoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of mustard, and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice. Heat thoroughly, 
and when smooth and thick heat the shredded 
cabbage in the sauce, and serve. 

Cold Slaw. — (i) Shred a white cabbage fine, and 
soak in ice water. Make a dressing of the whites of 
two hard-boiled eggs, one yolk of egg well beaten, 
half a cupful of olive oil, the juice of a lemon, and 
mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Drain the 
cabbage thoroughly, mix with the dressing, and serve 
very cold. 

(2) Mix together one saltspoonful of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard, one tablespoonful sugar, one 
yolk of egg lightly beaten, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, and three cupfuls of cream. Cook 
over boiling water, add gradually a quarter of a 
cupful of vinegar, stirring constantly, then put it by 
to cool. Soak the shredded cabbage in cold water 
until crisp, drain, dry thoroughly, mix with the dress- 
ing, and serve very cold. 

(3) Soak a quart of shredded cabbage in cold water 

55 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

for an hour. Cook a tablespoonful each of chopped 
onion and celery in four tablespoonfuls of vinegar for 
fifteen minutes. Thicken half a cupful of boiling 
milk with six tablespoonfuls of cornflour, rubbed 
smooth in a little cold milk. Take from the fire, 
add the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Strain the 
vinegar into the sauce, add a tablespoonful of butter 
broken into small bits, and cool. Drain the cabbage 
thoroughly, mix with the dressing, and serve. 

(4) Shred a small cabbage, cover with cold water, 
and soak for an hour. Beat together two eggs and 
half a cupful of sour cream, add two tablespoonfuls 
of boiling vinegar, one tablespoonful of butter, and 
cook until thick. Take from the fire, season with salt 
and pepper, mix the drained cabbage, cool, and serve. 

Cold Slaw k la Irving. — Shred a cabbage very fine. 
Beat three eggs, and add half a cupful of cream and 
milk, and a tablespoonful of melted butter. Bring to 
the boil four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, with half a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, salt and pepper to taste. 
Add the egg mixture very slowly, stir constantly, pour 
over the cabbage, and serve very cold. 

Cabbage Balls. — Make a stuffing of one cupful each 
of cooked rice, and lentils, and chopped boiled onion, 
and half a cupful of chopped nuts (peacons preferred), 
add salt and pepper to taste. Cover the shredded 
cabbage with boiling water and let stand until the 
leaves are soft. Cut out the midribs, and roll 
portions of the stuffing into the large soft pieces of 
the leaves. Put the rolls carefully into a buttered 
saucepan, add the juice of a lemon and a clove of 

56 



CABBAGE DISHES 

garlic. Cook slowly for thirty minutes, drain care- 
fully, and strain the liquid. Thicken one and a half 
cupfuls of the liquid with a tablespoonful each of 
butter and flour, the butter to be made into a ball 
with the flour; take from the fire ; add the well-beaten 
yolks of four eggs, and cook over hot water until 
thick and smooth. Season with salt and tarragon 
vinegar, strain over the rolls, and serve hot. 

Cabbage Pudding. — Cut a cabbage very fine and 
put it into a baking-dish with alternate layers of bread 
crumbs. Season with salt and pepper. Fill the pan 
with milk, and bake slowly until done, forty minutes 
to one hour, serve in the baking-dish. 

Dutch Cabbage. — Shred a white cabbage and cook 
it slowly for three or four hours with enough water to 
keep from burning. Half an hour before serving 
season with salt and black pepper, add a cupful of 
sour cream, cook slowly until the liquid is nearly 
absorbed, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, and serve. 

Swedish Cream Cabbage. — Cook shredded cabbage 
for fifteen minutes in boiling water to cover. Drain, 
cover with milk, and add a pinch of ground mace, 
season with salt and pepper. Cook until the milk is 
boiled away, so that it barely moistens the cabbage, 
add a lump of butter, and serve. 

Cabbage a la Flamande. — Shave fine a large red or 
purple cabbage. Cook slowly for fifteen minutes in 
boiling water, drain, and chop fine. Reheat with 
a tablespoonful of butter, and chopped onion. Add 
salt and pepper to season, a dash of powdered cloves 
and a tablespoonful of butter, and serve hot at once. 

57 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Cabbage a la Frangaise. — Chop cold boiled white 
cabbage finely and drain, pressing out the water. 
Season with salt, pepper, and melted butter. Moisten 
with cream and two well-beaten eggs. Turn into a 
buttered frying-pan and cook slowly until brown on 
the under side, place on a hot dish, and turn out. 

Cabbage a la Frankfort. — Shred a cabbage, cook 
until soft in a little butter, add an onion stuck with 
cloves. Cover with boiling water and simmer for an 
hour. Remove the onion, add a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, and serve. 

Cabbage a la Mackenzie. — Shred a cabbage, fine 
soak in ice water and drain thoroughly, and mix with 
cream whipped solid. Season with salt only. Sur- 
round with crackers and toasted cheese. 

Cabbage a la Russe. — Slice a firm cabbage very 
thin, soak for half an hour in cold water, and drain, 
pressing out all the liquid ; cover with boiling water 
and cook uncovered for fifteen minutes. Drain 
thoroughly and reheat for ten minutes with a cupful 
of cream, salt and pepper to season, then add a table- 
spoonful of butter, and serve. 

Sweet and Sour Cabbage. — Shred finely, enough 
cabbage to fill a quart measure, and add two sour 
apples peeled, cored, and sliced ; put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter into a saucepan, and when it is hissing 
hot add the cabbage and apples. Pour over boiling 
water to cover, and cook until tender. Sprinkle two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, season with salt and pepper, 
add four tablespoonfuls of brown sugar and two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. If red cabbage is used, soak 

58 



CABBAGE DISHES 

it in boiling water for half an hour, changing the 
water two or three times. 

Cabbage Hearts and Peas. — Chop finely two cabbage 
hearts, and cook until tender. Cook separately an 
equal quantity of shelled peas, add a teaspoonful of 
chopped mint. Drain, season with salt and black 
pepper, and serve the cabbage piled in the middle of 
the dish, with a border of peas. 

Chouxbrais6 {Mrs. C. W. Earles' Recipe). — Take a 
nice spring cabbage, split it, and wash in salt and 
water ; put it in a saucepan of boiling water for ten 
minutes. Take it up, drain well on a sieve, put it into 
a casserole for one hour to braise, with a little butter 
and pepper and salt, but no stock or water. 

Cabbage k la Bourgeoise. — Clean and cut up a 
cabbage. Fry a tablespoonful of onion in butter, 
add the cabbage with salt and pepper and grated 
nutmeg. Cook over a slow fire, turning frequently 
to prevent burning. 

Savoy Cabbage may be treated in the same way as 
the common cabbage. 



OOUVE TRONCHUDA, OR PORTUGAL 
CABBAGE. 

(For culture, see under Cabbage.) 

This cabbage has a delicious flavour quite distinct 
from that of other cabbages. 

Two dishes may be made from it: the. first day, 
boil the heart and the outer leaves, after removing 

59 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the thick white midrib, which must be reserved. 
Cook as any other cabbage. 

Midrib of Portugal Cabbage. — Take the midribs, 
wash in salted water, and boil for an hour in abun- 
dance of boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt 
and a tiny piece of soda. Serve as you would salad 
fry, with rich white sauce poured over. 



CARDOON {Cynara Cardunculus. Composites). 

This is a subject requiring plenty of room, and 
unless particularly desired is not suited to the small 
garden. It is not often grown in this country, being 
susceptible to frost, and the taste for it being rather 
an acquired one. 

Cardoons are best grown in the way of celery, 
trenches being opened in May, four or five feet 
distant from each other. Old manure should be dug 
into the bottom of the trench. The seeds may either 
be sown in gentle heat in pots, and the plants put out 
in the trenches, care being taken not to break the ball 
of earth, or seeds may be sown in the trenches. In 
the latter case they should be sown in groups of three 
or four, and when they are well up thinned to a 
single plant. On the whole we have found it better 
to raise the plants in a frame, but many growers 
prefer the other method. The plants should stand 
three feet apart in the trenches. 

Watering must be attended to as carefully as with 
celery, and weeds must be kept down. Lettuces or 
other quick crops may be taken off the ground 

60 



CARDOON DISHES 

between the trenches, but before the summer is over 
the great handsome leaves will hang over a wide area. 
In September blanching may begin. It is wise not 
to blanch too many plants at a time, as they quickly 
rot after they have been tied up for four or five weeks. 
Therefore tie and earth up a few plants weekly until 
the end of October. The plants are prickly, and the 
gardener will do well to wear gloves while handling 
them. First draw the leaves together and tie them 
with string lightly. Then swathe straw or haybands 
round them and make all fast with string or bast, 
next earth them up at one operation in the way of 
celery. In four weeks the plants will be ready for 
use. On the approach of winter lift the entire crop 
and store in a cool, dark, frost-free house. 

CARDOON DISHES. 

Plain Gardoons. — Clean and pare two or three 
pounds of cardoons, cut them lengthwise, and 
blanche them with boiling water, then throw them 
into cold water to make them retain their whiteness, 
and dry them on a clean cloth. Cut an onion and a 
carrot into slices, put them into a saucepan with two 
ounces of fresh butter, take out the carrot and onion. 
Mix a tablespoonful of flour into the butter, add some 
water to prevent it burning. As soon as the water is 
boihng throw in the cardoons. When done serve 
up hot. 

Cardoons with Cheese and Sauce. — Prepare the 
cardoons as above, then put them one by one in a 

6i 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

saucepan with one ounce of fresh butter. Salt them 
a little and add about three-quarters of an ounce of 
parsley, and a little Bechamel sauce, lastly add an 
ounce of grated cheese. Cook them thoroughly, and 
serve hot. 

Gardoons with Oil. — Wash and string the cardoons, 
half boil in salted water, then plunge them into cold 
water. Cut them into pieces about two inches long, 
flour well, and put them in a saucepan with boiling 
pure olive oil ; salt and pepper to taste. Beat up two 
or more eggs according to the quantity of cardoons. 
When they are slightly brown on both sides drain 
and dish them, and pour the eggs over them. Put 
in the oven for a few minutes till the eggs are set. 
Serve hot. 



CARROT (Daucus Carota. Umbelliferce). 

The earliest carrots should be sown in frames on 
a good hotbed early in November. At least four 
inches of a good, light, sandy compost should be 
placed over the surface of the bed. Many sow broad- 
cast, thinning the plants to half an inch distance when 
well up. We prefer to sow in rows four inches apart, 
and to sow forcing radishes between, but very thinly. 
The radishes will be a most welcome crop, and will 
come in and be cleared away long before the carrots. 
Plenty of air and plenty of moisture must be given ; 
on warm days the lights may be quite off the frames 
for an hour or two, but frost must be excluded. 
Thin rigorously to half an inch or rather more, and 

62 



CARROT DISHES 

a delicious crop of young carrots will be harvested in 
February and March. 

A second hotbed started in January will carry the 
cook on until the early outdoor varieties come in. 

The first outdoor sowing should be of such a variety 
as French Horn on a warm well-drained border in 
February. The main crop sowings are made in April 
and May. The carrot does best in a sandy loam, 
with no recent manure in the top spit, but some good 
old stuff in the bottom of the trench is desirable. 
Sow in drills a foot apart ; thin first to one inch, then 
draw the next lot just as they are, as thick as a finger ; 
they will never be better ; leave the rest four to six 
inches apart. Keep the Dutch hoe going between 
the rows and harvest in August or September. There 
is no object in keeping carrots in the ground after 
the tops have died down ; in fact, if showery weather 
sets in the roots are likely to start into growth again 
and split and spoil. Store for winter use in sand in 
a cool cellar. 

CARROT DISHES. 

Carrot Pudding. — One pound of boiled carrots, 
half their bulk in bread crumbs, two eggs, pepper 
and salt, two ounces of butter, and some white sauce. 
Boil the carrots till soft, chop them small, rub them 
through a sieve, add the bread crumbs and butter 
and eggs sufficient to bind the whole together, with 
seasoning to taste. If eggs are not used, a couple of 
teaspoonfuls of flour and a little milk should be put 
in. Butter a pudding basin, put in the mixture, 

63 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

steam for two hours according to size. Turn out the 
pudding, and serve with white sauce poured round it. 
Carrot Souffle. — Take a quarter of a pound of 
boiled carrots, rub through a sieve, add a table- 
spoonful of Parmesan cheese, two tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce, and some butter and seasoning, and 
mix well together. Place in souffle dishes, sprinkle 
with butter and breadcrumbs and brown in the 
oven. 

Carrots saut6 a la Fran§aise. — Scrape and wash 
a dozen young carrots, cover with cold salted water, 
and boil until tender. Drain and fry brown in 
butter, adding a pinch of sugar. Season with salt 
and pepper, sprinkle with minced parsley and lemon- 
juice if desired, and serve very hot. 

Spring Carrots. — Trim and scrape two bunches of 
spring carrots. Parboil for ten minutes in salted 
water to cover. Drain and rinse in cold water. 
Put into a deep baking-dish, with two tablespoonfuls 
each of butter and sugar, and two cupfuls of milk 
or vegetable stock. Cover and cook slowly, until 
tender. Drain, reduce the liquid by rapid boiling, 
and thicken with a little flour, and season ; pour over 
the carrots, and serve. 

Carrot Soup. — Put eight or ten finely sliced carrots, 
one onion, two heads of celery sliced, five ounces of 
fresh white haricot beans, four ounces of butter, and 
salt and pepper to taste, in a saucepan. Cook over 
a slow fire for one hour, and stir from time to time. 
Then add about three pints of good stock, boil one 
and a half hours, and rub through a sieve. Add 

64 



CARROT DISHES 

half an ounce of sugar, and serve with croutons (fried 
bread). If too thick, add a little stock at intervals. 

Boiled Carrots. — Cook peeled and sliced carrots in 
salted boiling water to cover, for one hour and a half 
or less, according to age and size of the carrots. 
Drain, and serve with melted butter. 

Stewed Carrots. — (i) Cook a quart of very young 
carrots, cut into dice, in boiling salted water until 
tender, and drain. Thicken the cooking liquid with 
flour rolled in butter. Season with pepper and 
sugar, reheat the carrots in the sauce, and serve. 

(2) Parboil a bunch of carrots, drain, and cut into 
dice. Put into a saucepan with two small onions 
chopped, pepper, salt, and minced parsley to season, 
and enough drawn-butter to moisten. Simmer for 
half an hour, and serve. 

(3) Wash and scrape whole carrots, and soak them 
for half an hour in cold water. Drain and cook for 
forty-five minutes in salted water to cover. Drain, 
cut into thin slices or dice, and cook for half an hour 
in stock to cover, season with pepper and salt. Add 
four tablespoonfuls of cream or milk and a table- 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Bring to the boil 
and serve. Water may be used instead of stock if 
another tablespoonful of butter is added. 

Carrots Stewed in Cream. — Wash and slice enough 

carrots to make two cupfuls. Simmer until nearly 

tender in stock to cover. Add a cupful of cream, 

thicken with a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour, 

season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

Carrots Saut^. — Cut scraped spring carrots into 

65 E 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

thin slices, and cook until tender in water to cover. 
Drain and reheat in butter, seasoning with sugar, 
pepper, and salt. Do not allow the carrots to fry. 
Sprinkle with minced parsley and powdered chervil 
before serving. The chervil may be omitted. 

Barley Soup and Carrots. — Take half a cup of 
pearl barley, three tomatoes, three small carrots, 
three small onions, one potato, one teaspoonful of 
brown sugar. Put three pints of water into a sauce- 
pan, add the barley, the sugar, and the tomatoes 
peeled and cut into small pieces. Stew gently for 
four hours, adding more water if necessary. Cut into 
small dice the three small carrots and the three small 
onions, fry with darlene or other vegetable fat to a 
golden brown, add to the soup one large potato cut 
into dice about half an hour before serving, also the 
fried vegetables. 

Carrot Croquettes. — Boil some carrots till tender in 
two waters. Mash them smooth, add a beaten egg, 
a large spoonful of melted butter, pepper and salt to 
taste, and set the paste aside to become cool enough 
to handle. Form into croquettes with the hands ; egg, 
and roll into fine crumbs, let them stand in a cool 
place half an hour, and fry in deep fat to a good 
brown. 

Carrots and Peas. — Cook separately until tender, 
diced young carrots and green peas. Drain, mix, 
and season with salt and pepper, reheat in white. 
Bechamel, or cream sauce, or melted butter. 

Compdte of Young Carrots and Green Peas. — Clean 
and cut into dice just enough carrots to make two 

66 



CARROT DISHES 

cupfuls. Cook until tender in salted water, drain, and 
reserve half a cupful of the carrot liquid ; mix the 
carrots with an equal quantity of cooked green peas, 
sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of flour, add two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper and sugar 
to season, add half a cupful of carrot liquid and half 
a cupful of stock, or use a cupful of either. Cook 
until smooth and thick, stirring constantly. Sprinkle 
with minced parsley, and serve. Carrots and peas 
may also be served with a sweet or sour sauce. 

Carrots and Asparagus. — Reheat in milk, or white 
stock, equal quantities of sliced cooked carrot, and 
cooked asparagus cut into small pieces. Thicken 
with flour, and add the yolk of an egg well beaten. 
Season with salt, pepper, butter, and minced parsley. 

Carrot Timbales. — Cook four peeled and sliced 
carrots until tender in stock to cover. Drain and 
mash, add two eggs well-beaten, salt, pepper, and 
grated onion to season, and a tablespoonful of 
cream ; mix thoroughly. Put into small buttered 
timbale moulds, stand them in a, baking-pan half 
full of boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake for twenty minutes, and turn out carefully, 
and surround the border with cooked peas, and 
serve. 

Stewed Carrots. — Take two dozen small carrots, 
wash and scrape them, and put into a saucepan 
with one ounce of loaf sugar, two onions, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, and a bay leaf, add a few spoonfuls of 
vegetable broth, and stew until the carrots are tender. 
Remove the carrots, strain the stock over them, add 

67 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

two tablespoonfuls of cream, make it hot, and pour 
this over the carrots, and serve. 

Carrots a la Flamande. — Trim a bunch of young 
carrots, cover with boiling water, and let them stand 
for five minutes. Drain, rub off the skins with a 
coarse cloth, cut them into thin slices, and cook 
until tender in a cupful of water, with a tablespoonful 
of butter, salt and pepper to season. Take from the 
fire and add the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, with 
a cupful of cream and a tablespoonful of minced 
parsley. Heat gradually until smooth and thick, 
stirring constantly, but do not let it boil. Serve as 
soon as the sauce is smooth. A little sugar and 
grated nutmeg may be added, and half a cupful of 
cream and milk used. 

Carrots a la Lilloise. — Peel, and cut into very thin 
slices two bunches of spring carrots, put into a sauce- 
pan with salted boiling water to cover. Add a tea- 
spoonful or more of sugar and a tablespoonful of 
butter, cover, and cook for half an hour. Add the 
yolks of three eggs beaten with half a cupful of 
cream, a tablespoonful of butter broken into small 
pieces, and heat slowly until the sauce is smooth and 
thick. Sprinkle with minced pargley before serving. 

Carrots a la Majestic. — Cut, peel, and trim some 

carrots into fancy shapes with French vegetable 

cutters. Cook in butter without burning. Moisten 

from time to time with water seasoned with pepper 

and salt and powdered sugar. Before serving add 

a little melted butter and sprinkle with minced 

parsley. 

68 



CAULIFLOWER DISHES 

Carrots in White Sauce. — Boil one dozen small 
French carrots in salted water until tender. Drain, 
cut into thin slices and saut6 in butter, and heat in 
white sauce ; season with mace and add a cupful of 
cooked green peas, and serve very hot. 



CAULIFLOWER DISHES. 

(For culture, see under Cabbage.) 

Cauliflower Boiled. — Cauliflowers should be cut just 
before using, so that they may be quite crisp. All the 
leaves but the small ones close to the flower should 
be discarded, as the flavour of the coarser leaves would 
taint the delicacy of the flower. 

Let them stand, head downwards, in strong salted 
water for half an hour before boiling ; by this means 
caterpillars will be cleared out. Have a large sauce- 
pan of boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt and 
a piece of soda the size of a pea. Put the cauli- 
flowers in, and when the water boils up, draw to 
one side and partially remove the lid to let the 
fumes escape, otherwise the flavour will not be so 
delicate. Time required, twenty minutes to half an 
hour, according to the size of the cauliflower. 

Lift out by thrusting a fork through the thick part 
of the stalk and place carefully on a hot drainer in 
a hot dish. The flower should be unbroken. Pour 
over a rich white sauce, and serve. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. — Prepare and boil as above, 
then put the cauUflower in a hot baking-dish and 

69 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

cover with grated Parmesan cheese, put in the oven 
for a few minutes till the cheese is melted. 

Cauliflower Salad. — Boil a cauliflower (having first 
removed the outside leaves), in salt water and let it 
get cold. Cut in pieces with a silver knife and place in 
a salad-bowl. Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 
mix with salt and pepper to taste, and smooth with 
a wooden spoon, then add three tablespoonfuls of oil 
and three of vinegar, drop by drop, beating with 
the back of the spoon all the time. Mix well, and 
pour over the cauliflower. This salad requires more 
vinegar than others. 

Baked Cauliflower. — (i) Take two cauliflowers, trim 
off the outer leaves, and wash throughly and boil in 
milk and water for twenty minutes, then drain. Mix 
two ounces of Parmesan cheese with two eggs and 
some bread crumbs. Season well with pepper and 
salt, cut the cauliflower into four pieces, dip each 
piece into well-beaten egg and roll in the mixture 
of cheese and bread crumbs, bake in a warm oven 
for ten minutes ; a little white sauce may be poured 
over. Serve very hot. 

Baked Cauliflower a la Bechamel. — Boil a cauli- 
flower in salted water for half an hour. Drain and 
break into bits. Put a layer of cauliflower into a pie 
dish and cover with Bdchamel or alia Panna sauce. 
Sprinkle with some grated cheese. Fill the dish with 
alternate layers of cauliflower and sauce, and cover the 
top with bread crumbs. Spread with grated cheese 
and bits of butter. Bake in a moderate oven for half 
an hour. Serve hot. 

70 



CAULIFLOWER DISHES 

Timb§,le of Cauliflower. — After removing all the 
leaves, boil a large cauliflower in salted water to cover, 
adding a tablespoonful of salt to the water. Cook 
until soft, drain, and press through a sieve. Soak 
two cupfuls of fresh bread crumbs in milk, squeeze 
dry, press the cauliflower through a sieve. Mix the 
crumbs with the cauliflower, add the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten, a tablespoonful of butter melted, 
salt and pepper to season, and the stiffly beaten whites 
of the eggs. Butter a mould, pour the pur6e into 
it, cover, and cook in boiling water nearly to the 
height of the mould for forty-five minutes. Turn 
out carefully on a serving-dish, pour over it a rich 
cream sauce, and serve. 

Mashed Cauliflower. — (i) Separate a cauliflower into 
florets and cook in boiling salted water until tender 
— not more than ten minutes. Drain, press through 
a sieve, season with salt, pepper, and butter, and a 
little cream or milk, reheat, and serve. 

(2) Boil and separate two heads of cauliflower. 
Fry a teaspoonful of chopped onion in butter and 
press through a sieve with the cauliflower. Moisten 
with cream sauce, season with salt and sugar, and 
reheat, adding a little cream if it is too thick. 

Cauliflower a la Hongroise. — Prepare according to 
directions given for Boiled Cauliflower (i). Drain, 
separate into florets, and arrange in a buttered 
baking-dish. Chop a small onion finely and fry it 
in butter with four tablespoonfuls of stale bread 
crumbs. Cook until brown, spread over the cauli- 
flower, and serve immediately. 

71 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Cauliflower k la Parisienne. — Boil a large cauli- 
flower until tender, drain, chop, and press hard into 
a buttered mould. Turn out on to a dish that will 
stand the heat of the oven. Cook together a table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour, add two cupfuls 
of stewed and strained tomatoes, and cook until thick, 
stirring constantly. Season with salt, pepper, and 
grated onion. Add enough cracker-crumbs to make 
the sauce very thick. Spread over the cauliflower, 
put it into a hot oven for ten minutes, and serve. 

Escalloped Oauliflower.^Boil until tender, sepa- 
rate into small pieces and pack stems downward in 
a buttered baking-dish, or use the cauliflower un- 
broken. Mix with a cupful of bread crumbs, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and enough cream 
or milk to moisten, pepper and salt to season, and 
one egg well beaten. Spread over the cauliflower, 
cover, and bake for six minutes, then uncover and 
brown. Serve in the same dish. 

Cauliflower in Cheese Shell. — Use an Edam cheese 
shell from which the cheese has been scooped out. 
Fill with creamed cauliflower, sprinkle with cheese, 
and bake on a tin until thoroughly hot. Buttered 
crumbs may be spread over the top if desired. 

Cauliflower in Crusts. — Cut the tops from stale rolls, 
scoop out the crumbs, and toast or fry the shells 
thus made. Fill with creamed cauliflower, and serve 
hot. 

Baked Cauliflower. — (2) Boil a cauliflower, drain 

it, and put it in a baking-pan. Put two ounces of 

butter and one ounce of flour into a saucepan, boil it, 

72 



CELERY 

add three-quarters of a pint of milk, stir it continually, 
add a bay leaf, a little chopped parsley, salt, and 
pepper, and stand it in a bain-marie for ten minutes; 
take out the bay leaf, pour the sauce over the cauli- 
flower, sprinkle it with bread crumbs, add some bits 
of fresh butter, and bake it in a very hot oven for 
a quarter of an hour. 

Cauliflower with Mushroom Sauce. — Cook cauli- 
flower (see Boiled Cauliflower) and dish on slices of 
toast. Have ready the following sauce : Six mush- 
rooms finely chopped, a little pepper and salt. Put 
two ounces of butter in a saucepan, put in the 
mushrooms, draw to one side, and simmer slowly 
for ten minutes or till quite tender, stir in one table- 
spoonful of flour, add half a pint of milk or vegetable 
stock. Stir till smooth and until it bubbles free from 
the side of the pan, then if liked one tablespoonful 
of cream or one yolk of egg may be added, after 
the saucepan is off the fire. Pour over the cauli- 
flower, and serve. 

CELERY {Apium graveolens. Umbelliferce). 

Celery is a subject worth much care and attention. 
We prefer the smaller, better-flavoured varieties such 
as Sulham prize pink or Clayworth prize pink. These 
are both excellent sorts ; the second is rather larger 
and does not stand the winter quite so well, but 
they are both infinitely superior to the great gross 
sticks grown for the market. Further, we are of 
opinion that early celery is scarcely worth eating, 

73 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the plant needing the effect of frost to develop its 
clean crispness to the uttermost. 

Nevertheless, as folk will have early celery the 
gardener must sow an early variety in heat in 
February, The seedHngs need tender handling, and 
must be pricked into rich compost four inches distant 
as soon as they are large enough to handle. Move 
them into a cold frame and keep them growing on 
with plenty of air and moisture, and gradually harden 
them off, plant them in their trenches early as possible 
in May, keep them well watered, begin to earth up in 
July and complete the operation about the middle of 
August, and dig in September as required. 

The main crop should be sown in the frame late in 
March, the plants put out and hardened off as above, 
and planted in the trenches in June and July. The 
latest crop of all may be sown in April, treated in the 
same way, and pricked out in the open six inches 
apart on a rich, not too sunny bed, and finally trans- 
ferred to the trench quite late in July. 

For large varieties the trenches should be quite five 
feet from centre to centre ; for smaller sorts four feet 
is a minimum distance. The trench should be 
eighteen inches wide at the top and about fifteen at 
the bottom. In a trench this width there will be two 
rows of plants a foot apart in the row, the plants 
being placed W fashion. Many prefer a single row, 
in which case the trench need be but a foot wide 
at the bottom. For the main crop the trenches 
should be two spades deep, for the smaller early sorts 
and for the late varieties half this depth will be better ; 

74 



CELERY 

in the latter case the roots will stand well above the 
level between the trenches after earthing up, an 
important consideration, as dryness is thereby pro- 
moted and the plants will better withstand winter 
damp and frost. A liberal supply (quite three inches) 
of manure should be dug deeply into the bottom of 
the trench before planting ; it should be well trodden, 
and a top dressing of soot applied. The celery plants 
must be carefully lifted with a trowel, a few at a time, 
so as to avoid a check, any side-shoots must be 
trimmed off, and any blotched leaves, and they must 
be carefully and firmly planted in the trench. A 
thorough soaking of water must be given immediately 
after planting, whether it is raining or not. 

Celery must be kept well watered through dry 
weather, and water in which soot has been soaking 
must be sprinkled through a rose at least once a 
week, in order to check the celery fly. The attack 
of the celery fly will cause leaves to blister and turn 
brown in blotches ; these blisters contain a maggot 
and must be picked of and burned. 

The first earthing up of main crop celery is done in 
dry weather, late in August. The plants should be 
lightly tied together with bast ; any side shoots must 
be removed and the trench weeded. With the spade 
chop down the sides of the trench and draw the earth 
up to the celery to the height of about six inches. 
This earthing up must be repeated two or three times 
at intervals of about ten days ; the bast should be cut 
away as it will interfere with the growth of the plant 
if left tied. Great care must be exercised to prevent 

75 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

any grains of earth trickling down into the heart of 
the plant. 

When finished, the earth should come well up to 
the neck of the plant and the ridge be neatly finished 
off with rather sloping top in order to throw off the 
winter wet. During frost a covering of dry fern laid 
along the top of the ridge will very greatly help to 
prevent the plants from rotting. 

CELERY DISHES. 

Waldorf Salad. — Equal parts of apple and celery 
cubed, served on lettuce with walnuts peeled, and 
sliced cold hard-boiled eggs, with dressing poured 
over it. 

Stewed Celery. — Cut into inch -lengths enough 
celery to make a quart. Cover with boiling salted 
water and cook slowly for half an hour. Drain the 
celery and strain the cooking liquid. Thicken one 
cupful of the liquid with a tablespoonful each of 
butter and flour cooked together, season with salt 
and pepper, reheat the drained celery in the sauce, 
and serve. Add a little cream to the sauce if desired. 

Celery Sandwiches. — Very finely shredded celery. 
Cream, salt and pepper, thin slices of buttered white 
bread. 

Moisten the celery slightly with the cream, season 

to taste. Place a thin layer between the slices of 

bread and butter, decorate with sprigs of parsley and 

serve. 

Celery with Bread Sauce. — Boil four heads of 
76 



CELERY 

celery until tender, in salted water to cover, and 
drain. Boil a sliced onion until tender, in a pint of 
milk, strain the milk and cook in it enough soft bread 
crumbs to make a smooth sauce. Cut the celery into 
short lengths and reheat in the sauce, seasoning with 
salt, pepper, and a heaped teaspoonful of butter. 

Celery Fritters. — Make a batter of two eggs, one 
cupful of milk, a tablespoonful of melted butter, one 
cupful of flour, and a pinch of salt. Boil until tender 
in salted water stalks of celery cut into four-inch 
lengths, drain, cool, and dry. Dip in batter, fry 
in deep fat, drain, and serve with Hollandaise 
sauce. 

Celery with Cream. — Cut some celery into small 
pieces about two inches long, wash them and dry 
them on a napkin, blanch them and drain. Stir two 
ounces of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of flour, and 
half a pint of good vegetable stock ; add the celery 
and simmer for twenty minutes, beat up two yolks of 
eggs with half a teacupful of cream, and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg ; stir this into the celery, being careful 
not to let it boil again ; serve very hot with croiitons. 

To Fry Celery. — Prepare the celery as above, boil 
in salted boiling water for a quarter of an hour, then 
dry on a napkin ; beat a fresh egg, stir into it one 
tablespoonful of flour and one cupful of hot vege- 
table stock, add salt and pepper, put the pieces of 
celery into the latter, and then roll them in bread 
crumbs and fry in butter. 

Celery with Parmesan Cheese. — Cook some whole 
heads of celery as above, when drained lay them in a 

77 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

dish, sprinkle with finely grated Parmesan cheese, 
pour melted fresh butter over them, put them into the 
oven till they have taken a good colour, add a little 
gravy, and serve. 

Escalloped Celery. — Chop celery very fine, or cut 
in half-inch lengths, and cook until tender in 
boiling salted water to cover. Drain and reheat in 
in a cream or white sauce. Put into a buttered 
baking-dish in layers, sprinkling each layer with 
grated cheese or crumbs, or both crumbs and grated 
cheese. Have crumbs and cheese on the top, dot 
with butter, and brown in the oven. 

Puree of Celery. — Cut into small pieces four heads 
of celery, and put into a saucepan with a sliced 
onion and half a cupful of butter, simmer slowly until 
tender, then add half a cupful of flour, made smooth 
with a little cold milk, and cook until smooth and 
thick, add two cupfuls of milk, stirring constantly. 
Press through a sieve, season with salt, pepper, a 
very little sugar, and butter, and moisten to the 
proper consistency with cream. 

Celery Slaw. — Mix two cupfuls of finely-cut celery 
with the beaten yolk of an egg, a tablespoonful each 
of butter, cream, and vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Mix thoroughly, cover 
tightly, and keep hot, without cooking for twenty 
minutes. Serve either hot or cold. 

CELERIAC. 

Celeriac, or turnip-rooted celery, is an admirable 
vegetable not nearly enough grown in this country. 

78 



TURNIP-ROOTED CHERVIL 

It requires exactly the same treatment as main- 
crop celery, except that it is planted on the flat 
two feet apart in every way. The ground should 
be richly prepared, and should be kept weeded by 
means of the Dutch hoe; the action of this admir- 
able tool results in a most excellent friable state of 
the surface soil, admitting air and preventing evapora- 
tion ; indeed a good Dutch hoeing is equivalent to a 
thorough soaking of water. The celery fly will attack 
the celeriac in exactly the same way as it does celery 
proper, and the same precautions must be used 
against it. Celeriac stands frost well, and may be 
dug as required through the autumn and winter. 



CHERVIL [Scandix Cerefolium. UmbellifercB). 

Sow in shallow drills a foot apart and thin to a 
foot in the row. Early spring is a good time to 
sow ; the seed will germinate all the year round ; 
probably a couple of sowings four months apart will 
provide sufficient. The leaves are used rather spar- 
ingly in salads, and for various flavouring purposes. 



TURNIP-ROOTED CHERVIL (Chmrophyllum 
bulbosum. Umbellifenz). 

This is one of the subjects whose seed must be 
sown as soon as ripe. There are expedients for 
keeping it unspoilt until spring, but it is better to 
sow in August, in drills a foot apart. Thin the plants 

79 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

to three inches, and later thin again to nine inches 
apart. 

The roots are perfectly hardy, and will be ready 
to use from September onwards the year after the 
seed is sown. 

The roots are eaten boiled in the way of parsnips. 



DISHES. 

Herb Soup. — Sorrel, eschalot, chervil, a little mint 
and parsley. Boil all for a few minutes in a pint of 
milk. Add a good piece of butter and salt to season. 
Boil all together for a minute, then pour it over some 
crusts of bread in a soup-tureen. 

Vegetable and Cream Soup. — Boil three lettuce 
heads, four heads of celery, two onions, a handful of 
chervil, a little sorrel, tarragon, and thyme, in one 
quart of water till well stewed. Strain off the heads 
half an hour before dinner ; let the soup cool, and 
add one pint of fresh cream, or quarter of a pint 
of cream and make up to a pint with milk, with the 
yolks of three eggs ; stir well, put it on the fire to 
heat, and do not let it boil. 

Chervil Summer Salad. — (i) Take two large 
cucumbers and one head of celery ; peal and slice, 
add a bunch of red radishes, six cold boiled, young 
globe artichokes, cut into quarters, sprinkle with 
finely-chopped chervil, mix, and pour mayonnaise 
sauce over just before serving. 

(2) Take three heads of fresh lettuces, one of 
celery, a little chopped tarragon and chervil, and one 

80 



CHICORY 

or two carrots. Dress with five tablespoonfuls of 
pure olive oil, two of white wine vinegar, one small 
teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Stir well before serving. Cold boiled haricot beans 
or green peas are a good addition. 

Freshly chopped chervil can be added to any salad 
with advantage. It is especially good with small 
boiled potatoes cut in slices, served with either oil 
and vinegar or mayonnaise sauce. 

CHICORY [Cichorium Intybus. Compositce). 

The seeds are sown in June in shallow drills in 
pretty rich ground. The drills should be nine inches 
apart, and the plants thinned to three inches. When 
wanted in winter the roots are lifted, the leaves 
trimmed off an inch from the crown, and the roots 
stacked in dry earth or sand in a dark cellar or frost- 
free pit. A sprinkle of water will start them into 
growth, and with no other trouble the blanched 
leaves may be gathered in about four weeks' time. 

Witloef, or Brussels chicory, is grown in much the 
same way, except that the plants should stand six 
inches apart in the rows as they grow. From 
November onwards witloef may be blanched, and 
the blanching is done in the following fashion : A 
deep trench is got out as for celery, though no 
manure is put in it, the plants are lifted and trimmed 
to within an inch of the crowns, and are then re- 
planted in this trench about two inches apart, and 
the crowns eight inches from the level of the garden. 

81 F 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

The earth is then returned, filling the trench in level ; 
over the trench a heap of hot manure three feet deep 
is piled, and the heads will be ready to dig in about 
three weeks, or rather longer. 

Puree of Chicory. — Cut off the outside leaves and 
trim three or four heads of chicory, wash the inside 
of the leaves well, drain, cook them in boiling salted 
water, put them on a sieve and pour cold water on 
them. Press out all the water and then chop them 
finely. Season one and a half ounces of butter with 
salt and pepper and a little grated nutmeg. Stir the 
chicory and butter over a quick fire with a wooden 
spoon, until they are reduced to a pur6e. Add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of cream sauce and a little castor 
sugar. Any good sauce can be added to this after it 
has been dished up with fried bread. Chicory is good 
in salads with lettuce and other vegetables. 

CHIVES {Allium Sckcenoprasum. Liliacea). 

This perennial plant is best propagated by dividing 
old roots in spring, the plants may be put a foot 
apart, or may form a continuous edging to a kitchen 
garden path. 

The leaves are used as flavouring for soups, or 
instead of onions in salads. 

CLARY {Salvia Sclarea. LabiatcB). 

This is best treated as a biennial. Sow in April 
in drills eighteen inches apart, and thin to the same 

82 



CRESS 

distance in the rows. Keep the Dutch hoe going 
through dry weather, and do not let the plants flag 
for want of water. 

The leaves are used as a flavouring for soups, &c. 
They should be gathered in August, dried, rubbed 
through a sieve, and stored in bottles for use. 

CORIANDER {Coriandrum sativum. Umbelliferce). 

A sunny position should be selected, and the seed 
sown during April in shallow drills twelve inches 
apart ; thin the plants out to six inches. 

The seeds are harvested in August, dried, and stored 
in bottles. They are used as flavouring. 

CORN SALAD ( Valerianella olitoria. Valerianaccz). 

This native plant is well worth growing as a basis 
for winter salads. It may be sown in any odd corner 
during August, the plants thinned to four inches, and 
used as wanted from November to March. 

COUVE TRONCHUDA (see Cabbage). 

CRESS {Lepidum sativum. CrucifercB). 

As soon as there is a mild hotbed available, or 
a corner in a house, from January onwards, make 
successive sowings of this about every ten days. 
Spread the seed on a garden mat, water well, and 
cut in ten days ; this avoids grittiness. If sown on 

83 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

soil do not cover it, but simply press it down with 
the back of a dry spade. From March onwards it 
may be sown in -the open as often as desired. In 
October again resort to cold frames, and later to 
heat. 



AMERICAN CRESS {Erysimum prcecox. Cruciferce). 

This biennial plant may be sown from March to 
September, and the plants thinned to six inches. It 
is easier in ordinary gardens than water-cress, but 
greatly inferior to it in quality — being much coarser 
and hotter in flavour. 



WATER-CRESS [Nasturtium officinale. Cruciferce). 

Not worth growing unless there be a natural supply 
of water available. If this be the case beds should 
be trenched and manured, and cuttings (or seedling 
plants) put out six inches apart, and water allowed 
to flow over the bed. Or the plants may be set by 
the margin of a stream or pond. 

To raise from seed sow in a shallow trench. Keep 
watered, and admit water gradually as the plants 
grow. 

It is used in salads, and as a garnishing with poultry 
and game. 

Cress Salad. — Wash carefully any kind of cress 

or lettuce, and dry without bruising ; put them in 

a salad bowl with a whole raw onion; shake over 

them a little very finely chopped chervil. Then put 

84 



CUCUMBER 

a pinch of salt and pepper in a tablespoon, fill the 
spoon with olive oil, stir very carefully with a fork till 
the salt and pepper are melted, pour over the cress, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of good salad oil, stir 
thoroughly, and add one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
remove the onion, and serve. 

CUCUMBER {Cucumis sativus. Ord. Cucurbitacea). 

Though needing daily attention, the cucumber is 
well worth growing in the small garden if the gar- 
dener can give the necessary few minutes to its care 
morning and night. 

Seed, both of a frame variety, such as " Telegraph," 
and of a ridge variety suited to outdoor culture, 
should be sown in the hotbed in March. The seed 
should be sown in 3-inch pots, a single seed to a 
pot, well watered, and a sheet of glass laid over to 
keep the moisture in. 

As the plants grow, they will soon need to be 
shifted into larger pots ; they must be kept growing ; 
warmth and moisture are essential. About the be- 
ginning of May the cucumbers must be planted out 
in the frame, one plant under each light. About four 
inches of earth should be laid on the surface of the 
hotbed, and the plants put out. 

It is good practice to stop the top of the shoots 
when they are about eight inches long to induce 
the plants to throw back. Water should be given 
in abundance, and air must be admitted for some 
hours during the heat of the day. If the heat dies 

85 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

out of the hotbed too soon, the frame must be 
protected from cold by mats at night, until the spring 
sunshine is sufficiently strong to fill the frame with 
a store of warmth to last the night. 

It is as well to set the earlier fruit with a camel's- 
hair brush, conveying by its means the pollen to the 
fruit-bearing flowers ; later in the season this can 
be left to Nature and the bees. The whole history 
of successful cucumber growing Hes in the three 
words, water, warmth, and air ; by their aid first- 
rate fruit may be grown in a frame. The frames 
should not have the lights drawn off or even pushed 
back ; this latter practice is one that gardeners are 
fond of pursuing, but it is fatally productive of cold 
draughts. Pieces of board should be prepared with 
step-like indentations, and by means of these the 
lights may be propped up to varying heights accord- 
ing to the weather. 

Never should the frames be watered less than four 
times a week, and in hot weather water should be 
given both evening and morning. It is a good plan 
to keep a pot full of water in the frame in order to 
ensure that ,the water should be warmed to the 
exactly right temperature, as it is a most unscientific 
proceeding to throw cold water over these warmth- 
loving plants. 

Ridge cucumbers will thrive under precisely the 
same treatment as above described, but they may 
need a second shift into larger pots. They must be 
kept in the frame, growing on, until the end of May, 
when they can be planted out in the open, in richly 

86 



CUCUMBER 

made-up ground. It is a usual thing to provide 
southward sloping ridges to grow them on, but this 
is unnecessary if the gardener select some warm and 
sheltered spot, where full sunlight falls most of the 
day. They will need daily watering, and will throw, 
in a favourable season, an astonishing quantity of 
small, well-flavoured fruit. 



DISHES. 

Cucumber TimbUles. — Mix one cupful of cooked 
cucumber pulp, and half a cupful of bread crumbs 
with half a cupful of very thick cream sauce, a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, the yolks of two eggs beaten 
thoroughly, and a few drops of onion juice. Fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, fill small buttered 
timbale-moulds, and bake until firm in a pan of hot 
water. 

Mashed Cucumbers. — Peel and cut up old cucum- 
bers, and boil until soft in salted water to cover. 
Drain, mash, and season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Devilled Cucumbers. — Make a sauce of one cupful 
of stewed and strained tomato, half a teaspoonful 
each of salt and made mustard, a teaspoonful of 
sugar, cayenne, and grated onion to season, a table- 
spoonful of olive oil, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Bring to the boil, pour over fried cucumbers, and 
serve. 

Cucumbers on Toast. — Peel and cut two or three 
large cucumbers into half-inch slices. Cover with 

87 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

hot water and stew until tender but not broken. Bring 
a cupful of cream to the boil, add a tablespoonful 
of butter, and salt and pepper to season. Drain the 
cucumber, reheat in the cream, and serve on toast. 

Ragout of Cucumbers and Onions. — Peel and slice 
three cucumbers and two onions. Fry brown in 
butter, dredging with a little flour, add enough water 
to cover, and cook for half an hour. Thicken with 
a teaspoonful each of butter and flour cooked to- 
gether, add salt and pepper to season, and half a 
cupful of stewed and strained tomatoes. Heat 
thoroughly, and serve. 

Stewed Cucumber. — Peel and quarter six cucum- 
bers, remove the seeds, and fry in butter with a 
chopped onion. Take up the cucumbers and cook 
a tablespoonful of flour in the fat remaining in the 
pan. Add one cupful of stock or water and cook 
until thick, stirring constantly. Season to taste with 
salt or pepper and cook the cucumbers in the sauce 
for twenty minutes. Serve on small squares of 
buttered toast. 

Stuffed Cucumbers. — Peel and split four cucumbers 
and scoop out the seeds. Make a stuffing of one 
cupful of stale bread crumbs, half a cupful of 
chopped nuts, one boiled onion chopped, a table- 
spoonful each of minced parsley and Chutney sauce, 
and salt to season. Stuff the cucumbers, put the 
halves together, and tie into shape with strings. 
Brown in olive oil, add half a cupful of water, and 
bake for an hour and a half, basting frequently. 
Remove the strings and serve. 

88 



CUCUMBER 

Cucumber Fritters. — Make some batter with an 
egg, a cupful of milk, and enough sifted flour to 
thicken it — about a tablespoonful — put some slices 
of peeled cucumbers into sufficient boiling water 
to cover them, let them stand for fifteen minutes, 
drain and wipe them dry, season the slices with 
salt and pepper, dip them into the batter, and fry in 
deep fat. 

Escalloped Cucumbers. — Peel and cut into dice six 
large cucumbers. Butter a baking dish and put in 
a layer of the dice. Season with grated onion and 
lemon juice. Cover with crumbs, dot with butter, 
and season with paprika and celery salt. Repeat 
until the dish is full, having crumbs and butter on 
the top. Cover and bake for an hour, then remove 
the cover and brown. Serve with sauce piquante. 

Cucumber Sliced. — Cut off the pointed end and 
discard, then peel as much as you are likely to 
require — probably half — but do not cut it off. Thinly 
slice with a cucumber knife as far as you have peeled. 
Put the piece that remains in a two-pound jam pot 
with two inches of water in the bottom. Let the 
stalk end be in the water, and the cucumber will 
keep crisp for two days, but the ideal thing is to use 
it as soon as it is severed from the tine. Take the 
thin slices of cucumber and lay them on a flat dish, 
sprinkle with a little salt, and put another plate over 
and leave in a cool place for half an hour. Then 
drain off the brine, and slip the slices on to a glass 
dish, pepper them, and pour a httle brown vinegar 

over them, and if liked, half a tablespoonful of olive 

89 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

oil. Serve immediately. Treated in this way cucum- 
ber is more digestible. 

Cucumber and Onion. — Peel and slice the cucum- 
ber, and put in a glass dish ; add a few thin slices of 
raw onion, pepper, and vinegar ; oil if liked. 

Cucumbers are much used to decorate salads. 



DANDELION [Leontodum Taraxacutn. Composit(B). 

Sow during March or April in shallow drills 
fifteen inches apart. Thin the plants to the same 
distance in the rows. When the plants are large 
enough to use they should be blanched by covering 
with flower-pots inserted over them with a piece of 
slate on top to exclude the light. 

The young leaves, either green or blanched, are 
excellent for salads, generally in addition to lettuce 
or chicory. 

DISHES. 

Dandelions can be cooked in the same manner as 
chicory and spinach. 

Dandelion Greens. — Boil until tender in salted water. 
Drain, chop and season with salt, pepper, butter, and 
vinegar, or lemon juice. 

Dandelion Mixture. — -Wash the dandelion leaves 
thoroughly, and put in salted water until tender, 
strain through a colander, pressing with a weight to 
extract all the moisture. Put into a saucepan with 
a little cream, the yolks of two eggs, salt and pepper 
as well as any other seasoning of herbs desired. 

90 



EGG PLANT 

Heat through, spread the mixture on slices of stale 
bread, and fry quickly in hot butter or dripping. 
Garnish with chopped hard-boiled eggs. Season with 
oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and finely chopped parsley. 

Dandelion as a Vegetable. — Cut off the outer leaves 
and wash well, let them stand in cold water for an 
hour to crisp ; drain and throw into a saucepan of 
boiling water which has been salted, and simmer for 
twenty minutes, or half an hour if full grown. Strain 
through a colander to extract the liquor, then chop. 
Place a good tablespoonful of butter in a stewpan, 
and when melted add a tablespoonful of flour. Add 
the greens, toss a little with a wooden spoon, and 
season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and moisten 
suitably with stock. Toss for ten minutes longer. 
Add, if you like, a tablespoonful of cream, sweet or 
sour, and serve hot with a garnish of toast cut into 
points, or croutons. Other greens may be treated in 
the same way. 

DILL {Anethum graveolens. Umbelliferd). 

Sow during April in rows twelve inches apart, and 
thin the seedlings to nine inches in the row. Harvest, 
dry, and store the seeds when ripe. 

The green leaves as well as the dried seeds may be 
used as seasoning. 

EGG PLANT {Solatium Melongena. Solanacece). 

The egg plant, or Aubergine, is very little cultivated 
in this country. Even under glass it is not raised 

91 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

very successfully. It might be worth while trying it 
on the lines of vegetable marrow culture, or rather on 
that of outdoor tomatoes. In this case the seed 
should be sown in heat in March, the seedlings 
potted up in 48-sized pots and kept growing in the 
hotbed ; as soon as the pots are full of roots repot 
into larger, and so on until the end of May, when the 
plants should be gradually hardened off and finally 
planted in rich soil in a sunny, sheltered position 
about 14th June. Copious watering must be given, 
the fruits thinned, and the plant should be pinched 
back in the way of tomatoes when sufficient are set. 

The fruit is ready to gather when of a fair size, and 
the flavour is more delicious if gathered before too 
old. Generally speaking, the fruit is ready to use 
from August onwards. The French scoop out the 
seeds and stuff the interior with minced herbs, bread- 
crumbs, raw eggs, and lemon juice ; then serve with 
butter. The white kind generally grown for ornament 
is not so well flavoured as the purple, known as the 
Aubergine. 

DISHES. 

Escalloped Egg Plant. — Boil a large egg plant 
until tender, peel and mash, season with butter, 
pepper, and salt ; add two hard-boiled eggs chopped 
finely, and half an onion grated. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of cream ; serve on crodtons very hot. 

Caponata (A Sicilian Dish). — Peel eight aubergines, 
cut them into little pieces ; sprinkle these pieces with 
salt to get rid of the bitterness, and fry them. Cut up 

92 



EGG PLANT 

an onion, fry it lightly in oil, and when it is yellow- 
brown add to it a head of celery well cleaned, and 
also cut in pieces. When all this has cooked about 
three minutes, add capers and olives stoned and cut 
up in quarters. Then add the purde you have pre- 
pared from two pounds of tomatoes, with a little 
vinegar and a little sugar, enough to make an acid- 
sweet sauce, cook it all together for a short time, then 
add the fried egg plant to the mixture, and serve up 
on a hot dish. 

Egg Plant Stuffed with Nuts. — Boil an egg plant 
fruit until tender. Split and scoop out the pulp. 
Add a cupful of chopped nuts to one tablespoonful 
each of butter and bread crumbs, salt and pepper to 
season. Mix with two eggs well beaten, fill the shells, 
and bake for an hour. 

Egg Plant Baked with Tomato Sauce. — Cut a 
slice from the top of an egg plant fruit and scoop 
out the pulp. Remove the seeds, and soak the 
pulp in salted water for half an hour. Squeeze dry, 
chop three boiled onions finely, and cook for twenty 
minutes with half the contents of a can of tomatoes, 
adding a bay leaf, a clove, and two sprigs of parsley, 
and a teaspoonful of sugar. Rub through a fine 
sieve. Soak a cupful of bread crumbs in milk, 
squeeze dry, and mix with the egg plant pulp, and 
half of the tomato sauce. Add the yolks of two eggs, 
a tablespoonful of butter, and salt and pepper to 
season. Mix thoroughly, fill the shell of the egg 
plant, sprinkle with crumbs and bake for forty 
minutes, basting with olive oil. Reheat the re- 

93 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

mainder of the pur^e ; season with salt and pepper, 
and add a little butter, then serve separately as a 
sauce. 

Egg Plant k la Provence. — Slice and soak two 
small egg plant fruits, drain, and dip in oil, and broil. 
Put them into a saucepan which has been rubbed with 
garlic, add a chopped onion, a tablespoonful of butter 
or oil, a teaspoonful each of minced parsley and 
anchovy paste, a cupful of stewed strained tomatoes, 
salt and pepper to season. Cook until tender, and 
serve on toast or with macaroni. 

Stuffed Egg Plant. — Boil an egg plant fruit till 
tender ; remove from the hull, being careful to save as 
many pieces of hull as you wish to serve. Mix with 
the pulp one or two tomatoes, chopped nuts, toasted 
rolled dry biscuit crumbs. Season with chopped 
onions, red and black pepper, and salt. Fry in hot 
butter, fill the pieces of hull with this mixture ; 
sprinkle with dry biscuit crumbs and bits of butter, 
and bake brown. 

Stuffed with Tomatoes. — Parboil an egg plant fruit 
for ten minutes, drain, cool, cut in two lengthwise. 
Scoop out the pulp and mix with a cupful of chopped 
tomatoes, and minced green pepper free from seeds, 
also a cupful of bread crumbs. Season with salt, 
pepper, and melted butter. Fill the shells, bind them 
together with tape, and bake, basting frequently with 
melted butter and hot water. Take up on a hot 
plate ; remove the strings, and pour a hot tomato 
sauce around the egg plant. 



94 



ENDIVE 



ENDIVE {Cichorium Endivia. Ord. Compo sites). 

Though with care this excellent salad may be grown 
for a large part of the year, yet we find that it has 
an incurable tendency to bolt in hot weather, and, 
after all, if one has lettuce one can do without 
endive ; therefore in the small garden we prefer to 
grow it as an autumn and winter crop, and it is this 
very lateness that makes endive so useful. 

Endive should be sown in mid-July ; this sowing 
may be followed by a second about the 7th of August. 
As soon as the plants are large enough to handle they 
must be pricked out nine inches apart, in a patch 
of well-prepared ground, well watered in, and kept 
watered through dry weather until rain shall have 
settled them in. 

To be properly enjoyed, endive must be blanched 
for use ; this is effected by either tying the leaves 
together, as certain lettuces are still treated, or flower- 
pots may be inverted over the plants, a piece of slate 
or other covering ensuring perfect darkness. As soon 
as blanched, endive must be used, as it soon rots after 
the process is complete ; therefore but few plants 
should be tied at a time, and tying should be done 
weekly. 

The first sowing may well be of curled endive, but 
the second should certainly be of the Batavian or 
broad-leaved kind ; this is hardier, and stands winter 
cold and damp better. 

In September, say about the 7th, the frame should 
95 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

be filled with broad-leaved endive. The lights should 
be kept off as long as frosts will allow, and the plants 
kept perfectly hardy. When the lights go on the 
plants should be kept almost dry, little or no water 
being given. The plants in the frame may easily 
be blanched by shaking clean straw or hay over that 
part of the frame that is to be blanched. With this 
treatment endive should certainly be in use at the 
turn of the year. 

Baked Endives. — After trimming and washing some 
heads of endive put them in salted water, with a few 
drops of lemon juice. Drain them, pour a little white 
sauce into a buttered fireproof dish, then add the 
endives with a little vegetable stock ; the white sauce 
should be sufficient to cover the endive. Then add 
grated Gruy^re and Parmesan cheese, bake, and serve. 

FENNEL {Fmniculum Officinale. Umbelliferce). 

Usually propagated by division of old plants in 
March. Plants should stand in rows fifteen inches 
apart, the plants one foot in the row. Any good rich 
garden soil will suit fennel, which is a perennial and 
long-lived subject. The flowering heads should be 
removed as they appear. Gather the youngest and 
freshest leaves for use as required. 

It is a most delightful vegetable, very little known 

in this country. It can be had at Italian greengrocers 

if not procurable elsewhere. It can be cooked in 

stock, like celery and chicory, and served with any 

rich sauce. 

96 



GOURDS 

Fennel Sauce.— Pick the leaves from the stalks, 
wash them well, then put them into boiling water, 
and boil until tender about three-quarters of an hour, 
drain off the water, and chop them finely. Stir them 
into half a pint of boiling white sauce, and simmer for 
ten minutes slowly. 

GOOD KING HENRY {Chenopodium Bonus-Henricus. 

Chenopodiacece) . 

This is a perennial plant of easy culture. Sow in a 
seed bed early in April, and as soon as large enough 
prick the seedlings out six inches apart. When well 
grown plant out in permanent bed fifteen inches 
apart. The leaves are used in the same way as 
spinach. 

GOURDS {Cucurbita. Cucurbitacem). 

Sow in hotbed early in April, and keep on growing 
in pots until the end of May, when the plants may be 
hardened off and planted out in sunny positions. It 
is well to take out a hole two feet square and fill it 
with a rich compost for the roots to run in. The 
fruit should be thinned if good examples are required, 
and the plants must have plenty of water. Gourds 
may be trained over trellis or arbour. 

DISHES. 

Pumpkins with Cheese. — Cut twelve young pump- 
kins about the size of a small egg into four pieces, 

97 G 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and remove the seeds and pulp. Put them into a 
saucepan (earthenware for choice), add butter and 
salt, and cook over a hot fire, shaking from time to 
time. Place them in a dish and sprinkle v^ith grated 
Parmesan cheese. Add a tablespoonful of stock to 
some tomato sauce. Pour it over the pumpkins, and 
serve hot. 

Fried Pumpkin. — Dip pieces of squash into batter, 
and fry in deep fat, or mix two cupfuls of mashed, 
cooked squash with three well-beaten eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful of melted 
butter, and flour enough to make a smooth batter. 
Fry by spoonfuls on a griddle or in a frying pan. 

Pumpkins: and Eggs. — Cut a small young pumpkin 
into rather thin slices, and fry in pure olive oil in a 
fireproof pan. Beat up two or three eggs, and pour 
them over the pumpkin. When the eggs are set serve 
in the pan. 

Italian Dish of Pumpkins. — Cut twelve or more 
young pumpkins, about the size of an egg, into 
slices, removing the seeds and the pulp. Place 
them in an earthenware baking dish, and add some 
pure olive oil. Cook well over a brisk fire ; add salt 
and pepper to taste, and some grated cheese, and 
serve hot. 

Pumpkin Croquettes. — Mix one pint of mashed 
pumpkin or squash, half a cupful of bread-crumbs, 
one tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper to 
season. Heat thoroughly, shape into croquettes, 
dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Pumpkin Cake. — Boil, mash and cool two pumpkins, 

98 



GOURDS 

season with salt and pepper. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, two cupfuls of milk, two eggs well 
beaten, and enough flour sifted, with one table- 
spoonful of baking-powder, to make a smooth 
batter. Fry by spoonfuls on a small griddle, and 
serve hot with white sauce. 

Baked Squash or Pumpkins. — Cut into two-inch 
pieces, remove the seeds and strings, put into a 
baking-pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and bake, 
basting with molasses and melted butter. Keep 
covered during the first half hour. Serve in the 
shells, or cut in halves and bake, covered, for two 
hours, remove from the shell, mash, and season with 
salt and pepper. 

Pumpkin Custard. — Boil and mash a squash, 
season with salt, pepper and butter, and add two 
beaten eggs with half a cupful of milk. Mix 
thoroughly, put into a buttered baking-dish, and 
bake in a moderate oven until puffed and brown ; 
it must not boil, or the custard will crack and be 
watery. 

Escalloped Pumpkin. — Cut crook-neck squashes 
into slices ; peel and boil in salted water for fifteen 
minutes ; drain and put into a buttered baking-dish 
in layers, seasoning each layer with sugar, grated 
nutmeg, and bits of butter. Pour over half a cupful 
water and bake for one hour. Serve in a baking-dish. 

Baked Pumpkins. — Peel, boil and mash, two 
small squashes. Cool, add two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, two eggs well-beaten, half a cupful 
of cream or milk, salt and pepper to season. Turn 

99 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

into a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle with crumbs, 
dot with butter, and bake for half an hour. Three 
squashes may be used, if a cupful of milk is added. 

Stuffed Pumpkins. — Simmer two small summer 
squashes for ten minutes in boiling water to cover. 
Cut in halves, scrape out the pulp, remove the seeds, 
and press dry. Chop an onion finely, and add two 
cupfuls of shelled shrimps ; fry in lard, with a 
chopped tomato, a bit of bay leaf and thyme, 
parsley and garlic to season. Add a cupful of 
crumbs, the squash-pulp, salt and pepper to season, 
and one egg well beaten. Mix to a smooth paste, fill 
the shells, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until 
brown. Lobster may be used instead of the shrimps. 



HORSE-RADISH {Cocklearia Armoracia. Ord. 
Cruciferce). 

Once in the ground, there is no doubt about 
having this relish to the roast beef of old England. 
Indeed horse-radish is so much of a weed that, as 
with Jerusalem artichokes, it had better be grown in 
some otherwise waste corner of the garden where it 
will not interfere with other crops. 

Slips of the roots should be planted in February 
or March in rows twenty inches apart, the plants 
eighteen inches in the row. The ground should be 
deeply dug and well manured. The plants will stand 
through two seasons without deterioration. 



100 



KOHL.RABI 



DISHES. 

Scraped Horse-Radish. — Wash and scrape the root 
as you would a carrot, then with a sharp knife cut 
thin curHng strips lengthwise from the thick end 
down to the point of the root. These are used as a 
decoration and adjunct of roast beef, served in heaps 
round the dish. 

Horse-Radish Sauce.— Wash and scrape the horse- 
radish, then grate as much as is required, standing in 
a strong draught if possible that the pungent aroma 
may be drawn away, or the tears will flow freely. 
To two tablespoonfuls of grated horse-radish add an 
equal quantity of cream, a little pepper and salt, a 
teaspoonful of sugar, and one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
added slowly, lest it curdle. 

If required with hot beef, the sauce may be made 
hot in a double saucepan, or in a bain-marie, but it 
must not boil. 

KALE (see under Cabbage). 



KOHL-RABI {Brassica Caulo-rapa. Cruciferce). 

This may either be sown where it is to stand, in 
rows fifteen inches apart, or better, in a seed-bed in 
April and transplanted in May or June to its final 
home. Besides providing a turnip-like swelling of 
the stem, the greens treated in late winter, like 
turnip tops, are quite delicious. 

Kohl-rabi is prepared and cooked in the same 

lOI 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

way as turnips and carrots, and the recipes given for 
these may be adapted for the cooking of this 
vegetable. 

DISHES. 

Italian Dish. — Take four kohl-rabis, one head of 
white cabbage, one head of kail, and some beetroot 
leaves, cutting away the stalks and the ribs. Cut the 
kohl-rabi into small pieces, and tear the leaves into 
bits. Wash well and put them into a saucepanful of 
water, with a little minced parsley, and salt to taste. 
Boil for one hour, then pour away nearly all the 
water, leaving just enough to cover the vegetables. 
Add one pint of milk— cream is of course better — and 
boil for fifteen minutes. Meanwhile pound twenty 
leaves of basil and one clove of garlic in a mortar ; 
mix with two ounces of grated cheese and three or 
four tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil. Put one half 
of this into the soup when it has boiled for fifteen 
minutes, and the rest just before serving. 

Cream Kohl-Eabi. — Peel a kohl-rabi ; slice and soak 
in cold water for half an hour. Drain, cover with 
cold water, and cook until tender. Drain, and pour 
over sauce to which has been added the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg 

Kohl-Rabi h TEspagnol. — Trim and quarter a small 
kohl-rabi, and cook until tender in salted water to 
cover, adding a little butter. Drain, and reheat in a 
well-buttered espagnol sauce. 

Stewed Kohl-Rabi. — (i) Put the tops in cold water. 
Peel and quarter the roots. Cover with cold salted 

I02 



LEEK 

water and boil until tender. Chop the greens fine, 
fry in butter, and add the roots cut into dice. Season 
with salt and pepper, add a cupful of stock, and 
thicken with flour which has been browned in butter. 
(2) Wash, peel, and cut into dice a quart of kohl- 
rabis, and cook in salted water until tender. Cook 
the tops in another pan of boiling water until tender. 
Drain and chop very finely. Cook two tablespoonfuls 
of flour in butter, add one cupful of soup or stock, 
and the chopped greens. When smooth and thick, 
add the cooked dice, reheat and serve. 

LEEK [Allium Porrum. LiliacecB). 

The leek is useful in almost any size ; even the 
smallest go well in soup ; but to be enjoyed it should 
be well grown. A long growing season is indispens- 
able to make good roots, and it is also of great im- 
portance that the leeks should be kept growing 
through dry weather, or they may prove tough and 
indigestible. 

Sow, then, leeks in a box in the hotbed early in 
March, or they may be sown out of doors in a 
shallow drill as early in spring as genial weather 
gives opportunity, even in February, but we prefer 
the hotbed as being more certain. The plants are 
somewhat slow in their growth, but as soon as they 
are a moderate size they must go into the cold frame 
for a few nights to harden off, and in April they 
should be pricked out in rows, the rows four inches 

apart, and the plants two inches in the rows. 

103 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

In May, ■when the late peas are sown, it is a good 
practice to put the rows at least four feet apart, even 
for peas of moderate height as "Continuity," and 
between these rows to prepare a strip of ground for 
the leeks. This is done by digging in an eighteen- 
inch strip a heavy dressing of really fat manure. 
Down this strip draw two deep furrows with the hoe, 
nine inches apart, and in these furrows dib out the 
leeks, as deeply as their first leaf, nine inches apart in 
the row. These furrows are an aid to watering, and 
in September, say the fourteenth, the earth can be 
hoed over, levelling and filling in the furrows, and 
thus blanching a few further inches of the leeks. 

This is a crop that may remain in the ground all 
the winter and be dug as needed. In showery 
weather it is advantageous to give dressings of 
nitrate, or waterings of weak liquid manure during 
the growing season. 

LEEK DISHES. 

To Boil Leeks. — Prepare the leeks by cutting off 
the roots, the green ends, and the outer leaves, cut 
the stalks into six-inch lengths, put a tablespoonful of 
vinegar and one desertspoonful of salt into a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, tie the leeks into bundles and 
boil them gently till they are perfectly tender— three- 
quarters of an hour or longer if they are very large — 
drain them well, and serve on toast with white sauce 
poured over them. 

Leeks with Parmesan Cheese. — ^Take fifteen leeks, 
104 



LENTILS 

cut them into two-inch lengths, and put them into 
cold water, boil them in boiling salted water, when 
cooked put them into cold water again, drain and 
dry them, fry in butter over a hot fire, add five table- 
spoonfuls of white or cream sauce, sprinkle with Par- 
mesan cheese and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Mix 
well together, and put into a baking-dish, brown them 
in the oven, and serve hot. 

Leek Omelette. — Make a cheese omelette in the 
usual way, and when ready to roll, put in two leeks 
previously trimmed, and cut up and stewed in brown 
sauce. 



LENTILS {Ervum Lens. Leguminoscs). 

Though lentils are not grown in England I give a 
few dishes, as every grocer can supply them at a 
reasonable price. 

To Boil Lentils. — Soak a breakfast-cupful of lentils 
over-night ; pick out and throw away those that float, 
put into two quarts of boiling salted water, and 
simmer slowly for an hour and a half. Drain and 
serve on toast, putting a little butter on the top of the 
lentils. The water in which the lentils were boiled 
can be used as stock with the addition of onions, 
carrots, parsley, and celery. 

Baked Lentils with Nuts. — Mix a cupful of boiled 
lentils with half a cupful of Brazil nuts chopped 
finely. Season with salt and grated onion. 

Put into a buttered baking-dish with half a cupful 
of water. Make a pastry of two cupfuls flour, and 

105 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

two tablespoonfuls of peanut butter. Moisten with ice 
water and roll out into a crust to cover the baking-dish. 

Cover and bake for one hour. Serve in the same 
dish with cream sauce, drawn butter or tomato sauce. 

Curried Lentils. — (i) Chop finely three large 
onions, three green peppers, one clove of garlic. 
Brown half a pound of washed lentils in butter ; 
add the chopped mixture and cold salted water to 
cover; boil until tender. Drain and add two sliced 
onions fried brown, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and 
one tablespoonful of curry powder. Serve with a 
border of boiled rice. 

Potted Lentil Savoury. — Take a half pint of cooked 
lentils, three ounces of mashed potatoes, two ounces 
of bread crumbs, one beaten egg, a little chopped 
parsley, a little onion juice, salt and pepper, and one 
ounce of butter. 

Put all in a pan, and mix well together, with two 
ounces of grated cheese, stirring all the time. When 
cooked turn into a mortar, pound well, and put into 
potting dishes, covering the tops with melted butter. 
This makes excellent sandwiches with a little mustard 
spread on. 

Lentil Gruel. — A useful and highly nutritious food 
for invalids is lentil gruel or broth. 

To make the gruel, take a desertspoonful of lentil 

flour, mix smooth with some cold milk, and add 

nearly one pint of milk which has been brought to 

the boil. Boil for fifteen minutes and flavour with 

a little cinnamon or vanilla. Serve with toast, and 

sugar to taste. 

io6 



LENTILS 

Lentil flour costs threepence a pound and is 
similar to Revalenta Arabica. 

Lentil Porridge. — Put three ounces of lentil flour, 
a little salt and pepper, into half a pint of cold water, 
stir, and add another half pint of boiling water, put 
it on the fire, and boil for twenty minutes, stir in an 
ounce of butter before serving, some may like a little 
barley meal ; it is better for invalids. 

Lentil Croquettes. — Soak over-night three cupfuls 
of lentils ; drain, and cook slowly for an hour in 
boiling water to cover, drain, press through a 
sieve, season with salt and pepper, add a spoonful 
of minced parsley, two spoonfuls of cream, a tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, and a dash of grated nutmeg, 
cool, shape into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat ; serve with tomato sauce. 

Lentil a I'Egyptien. — Soak two cupfuls of lentils 
over-night, drain and cook until soft in boiling water 
to cover, boil an equal quantity of rice. Cook to- 
gether a can of tomatoes, a chopped onion, a bay 
leaf, and a blade of mace, simmer slowly until it has 
the consistency of a thick sauce, drain the lentils, 
mix with the rice and one or two pounded cardamom 
seeds. Press the tomatoes through a sieve, add a 
heaped tablespoonful of butter, pour over the lentils, 
and serve. 

Lentil Omelette. — Make an omelette in the usual 
way ; put on a tablespoonful of cooked and drained 
lentils, which have been tossed in butter ; fold the 
omelette over ; serve with tomato sauce. 

An Italian Dish. — Soak a pint of lentils in cold 
107 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

water for twelve hours, strain them, put them into 
hot water, bring to the boiling-point quickly, then 
simmer slowly for an hour ; after draining, cook 
them in boiling water till quite soft, pass them 
through a sieve, add two ounces of butter, a very 
little onion juice, salt and pepper, and stir the whole 
for a quarter of an hour over the fire, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of cream before serving. 

Lentil Toast. — Thoroughly rinse five ounces of 
lentils, put into a small saucepan with enough water to 
well cover them, cook slowly till tender and the 
water is all absorbed — ten to twenty minutes — add 
butter, pepper, salt, spread the mixture thickly on hot 
buttered toast, and serve with mint sauce ; suitable as 
a supper or breakfast dish. — Mrs. C. W. Earless 
recipe. 

Lentil Soup. — Put a quarter of a pound of brown 
German lentils to soak in cold water the day before 
they are wanted ; boil them over a hot fire, being 
careful to cover them, and only put enough water 
to soak them, draw to one side and simmer slowly, 
keep adding a little water, removing from the surface 
any scum or skins, fry an onion until brown in butter, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, and pour into the lentil 
soup gradually, stirring well all the time ; add hot 
water if necessary and salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve with crusts of fried bread. — Mrs. C. W. Earle's 
recipe. 



io8 



LETTUCE 



LETTUCE {Lactuca sativa. Ord. Cotnpositai). 

The first sowing should be made early in March, 
some such early cabbage variety as " Tom Thumb " 
or "Commodore Nutt" being selected. This sowing 
should be made in a box in the hotbed, and at the 
same time a sowing both of early and later sorts 
may go into the cold frame or warm border for 
succession. As soon as the seedlings are up the 
box must go into the cold frame to harden the plants 
off, and early in April they may be pricked out in 
a warm bed, six inches apart. Any surplus seedlings 
here or in the cold frame should go into the salad 
bowl. Indeed these lettuce thinnings are so useful, 
that it is almost worth while to grow them like 
mustard and cress for cutting when the leaves are 
but three inches long. 

Towards the middle of March sowings may be 
made out of doors of both cos and cabbage varieties. 
These sowings should be repeated about every three 
weeks through the spring and summer. As the plants 
come on they should be pricked out a foot apart 
in between other crops and in any odd corner. If 
lettuces be put out about May 14 between the 
third and fourth sowing of peas, it is a good way 
of ensuring succession to put out a main crop lettuce 
a foot apart and dib in the intervals a "Tom Thumb." 
The latter will come to maturity and be off the ground 
well out of the way of the larger sort. 

In hot, dry soils we find that the cos lettuce is very 
109 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

apt to run to seed without forming heart. On this 
account some such sort of cabbage lettuce as " Stand- 
well" is preferred for these soils. In a good garden 
soil the White Paris cos cannot be beaten for general 
use. 

About mid-July it is well to sow a row of cabbage 
lettuce on the ridge between celery trenches. This 
sowing should be made very thinly indeed. When 
the plants are nicely up they may be thinned to nine 
inches, and the thinnings transplanted if there be 
room for them. It will be found that the plants 
grown from first to last in the same place will stand 
summer heat better than those that are transplanted, 
and will also come in before them. 

Early in August a last outdoor sowing of "Tom 
Thumb " should give plants that will, some of them, 
provide outdoor salad in October, and some, put into 
a cold frame, will last well into November or even 
to Christmas. 

Lettuces require an open, rich soil and plenty of 
moisture to grow them in perfection. A slight dress- 
ing of nitrate in showery weather, as soon as they 
are well established from planting out, will push them 
forward rapidly, and is specially important for autumn 
lettuces. During dry weather water must be freely 
given ; in order to facilitate the application of water 
it is well to prick out the later plants into shallow 
trenches or drills. 



no 



MAIZE 

DISHES. 

Lettuce forms the foundation of most salads. 

Cream of Lettuce Soup.— Separate four heads of 
lettuce, wash thoroughly, and place in boiling salted 
water. Boil, and cover for ten minutes. Drain, and 
throw into a dish of cold water ; allow them to re- 
main for a few minutes, then drain. Chop finely, 
then rub through a sieve. Have ready one quart 
of hot milk. Rub one tablespoonful of butter and 
flour to a paste ; add to the hot milk, and stir until 
it is thickened ; mix a half spoonful of this with the 
lettuce pulp ; stir until well blended, then add to the 
soup. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Let it 
simmer for about five minutes, and serve with toast 
cut in dice. 

An Italian Dish. — Cut off the roots, and wash clean, 
five or six lettuce heads. Put them into boiling salted 
water for five minutes. Take out, and fill the inside 
with meat of walnuts. Tie the tops together and put 
them in a saucepan. Add one quarter pint of Marsala 
wine, and some good vegetable broth ; salt and pepper 
to taste. Cover the dish with buttered paper, and cook 
in the oven for fifteen minutes. Place the lettuces 
on a hot dish, having untied them, pour the sauce 
over and serve hot. 

MAIZE or INDIAN CORN {Zea Mays. Graminece). 

Though this may be sown in the open in May, it 
is better practice to raise it in pots in the hotbed, 

III 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

sowing in April. The plants should be gradually 
hardened off and put out about the end of May or 
beginning of June in rows thirty inches apart. The 
plants eighteen inches in the row. 



DISHES. 

Corn Omelette. — Two eggs, a tin of sweet corn, 
pepper and salt, one ounce of butter. Beat the yolks 
of two eggs, add pepper and salt, and two table- 
spoonfuls of sweet corn. Beat the whites into a very 
stiff froth, and add to the yolks, and stir together. 
Put one ounce of butter in the omelette pan ; when 
very hot- put in the omelette. Stir round a few times 
until it begins to set. When brown at the bottom 
place under a grill or in front of a clear fire to 
brown the top. Sprinkle over some parsley which has 
been chopped ; fold over in half, and serve quickly. 

Corn Wafers. — Sift one pint of flour with a heaped 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Add one teaspoonful 
of salt, two well-beaten eggs, and one large cupful 
of milk. Beat the batter very lightly, then stir in 
one can of corn, and bake in waffle irons. Serve 
hot. 

Boiled Corn Bread. — Mix together two cupfuls of 
corn meal, a cup of flour, two cups of sour milk, 
one cup of warm water, a tablespoonful of lard or 
butter, a tablespoonful of molasses, a teaspoonful of 
bicarbonate of soda, and one of salt. Dissolve the 
soda in warm water, and add it to the milk. Beat 
all together and turn into a well greased brown bread 

112 



MAIZE 

mould, with a tightly fitting top. Set this in a pan 
of boiling water and cook steadily for two hours, 
filling up the pan from the kettle as the water boils 
away. At the end of the time, take the mould from 
the water, turn out the bread, dip the tin for a 
moment in cold water if the bread is inclined to 
stick, and put in the oven for five minutes, so that 
the surface may be dry and a little crisp. 

Raised Corn Bread. — Heat one pint of milk almost 
to boiHng, and pour it on one and a half cupfuls of 
green meal. Let it stand until cool, then stir in half a 
yeast cake dissolved in half a cupful of warm water, with 
a tablespoonful of sugar, and half a cup of white flour. 
Let this rise overnight in a corner which is not too 
warm, for five or six hours in a kitchen, of an ordinary 
temperature. It should rise to double its first size. 
Then stir, add one teaspoonful of salt and two 
beaten eggs, beat hard ; turn into muffin tins, and 
set in a warm place to rise for fifteen minutes before 
baking. It will require about twenty minutes in a 
steady oven. To be eaten hot. 

Corn Cakes. — Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and put with it three well-beaten eggs, beat lightly, 
add to this a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoonful of boiling water, and stirred 
in two cupfuls of sour milk. Sift two cups of corn 
meal with a teaspoonful of salt, and mix with the 
liquid ingredients. Beat all together and put into a 
shallow tin ; bake in a steady oven. This should be 
a thin sheet when done, and rather crisp. 

Plain Corn Muffins. — Two cupfuls of white corn 
113 H 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

meal, one cup of white flour, two cupfuls of milk, three 
eggs, a tablespoonful each of melted butter and white 
sugar, a small teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. 

Cream together the butter and sugar ; mix in the 
eggs, milk, flour, meal, baking powder, and salt sifted 
with the meal and flour, and bake in muffin tins. 
This can also be baked in a loaf if preferred, as can 
also sweet corn muffins. 

Boiled Corn. — Remove all the husks, except the 
inner layer. Strip the inner layer back far enough 
to remove the silk ; then replace, and tie at the upper 
end. Boil steadily for fifteen or twenty minutes in 
boiling water to cover, or in equal parts of milk and 
water. Drain, remove the strings, and serve immedi- 
ately in the husks. 

Escalloped Corn. — Rub a can of corn through a 
sieve. Season it with salt, pepper, and sugar. 
Twelve tablespoonfuls of flour, blended with three 
tablespoonfuls of cream, and half a cupful of the 
liquid drained from the corn. 

Put into a buttered baking dish ; cover with crumbs, 
dot with butter, and bake for twenty minutes. 

Broiled Corn. — Split the cobs, brush with melted 
butter and broil carefully, seasoning with salt and 
pepper, and serve. 

Baked Corn. — Fill a baking dish with husked ears, 
pour over one pint of milk, sprinkle lightly with 
sugar ; add water to cover, and bake for forty-five 
minutes. 

Baked Canned Corn. — Put a can of corn into a 
114 



MAIZE 

buttered baking dish, season with salt and pepper. 
Add one cupful of boiling milk, or half a cupful of 
cream, and dot with two tablespoonfuls of butter 
broken into small bits. Cook for forty-five minutes 
in a hot oven, and serve in the same dish. 

Cream Corn.— Remove the husks, and score each 
row of kernels deeply with a sharp knife. Press out 
the pulp with the back of a knife. Cook for twenty 
minutes in a double boiler. Season with salt and 
pepper, add butter and cream, or use cooked corn 
mashed. A little sugar may be added to the 
seasoning. 

Escalloped Corn. — Butter a baking dish, and put in 
a layer of cracker crumbs, then a layer of canned 
corn. Season with salt and bits of butter. Cover 
with sweet corn, and repeat until the dish is full, 
having crumbs on the top. Pour in enough milk to 
fill the dish, and bake for forty-five minutes. 

Corn Souffle. — Score each row of kernels deeply 
and press out the pulp with the back of a knife, using 
enough corn to make one cupful of pulp. Add one 
cupful of cream or hot milk, one tablespoonful of 
butter, pepper and salt to season, and three yolks 
of eggs well beaten. Cook in a double boiler until 
smooth and creamy. Keep stirring constantly. Take 
from the fire, cool, fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of 
four eggs, turn into a baking dish, and bake in a hot 
oven for twenty minutes. 

Succotash. — Cut the corn from six cobs, string, and 
cut into short lengths two cupfuls of kidney beans ; 
cook for half an hour in boiling salted water to cover. 

115 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Drain off nearly all the boiling water, and add one 
cupful of milk. Simmer for twenty minutes, stirring 
frequently. Season with pepper and salt. Add one 
tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour, and cook for 
ten minutes longer. 

Creole Corn Chowder. — Slice three onions, and fry 
brown in butter. Add three peeled sliced tomatoes, 
three green peppers, seeded and chopped, and the 
corn cut from seven cobs. Cook for an hour, adding 
water as needed. Season with salt, sugar, and black 
pepper. 

Corn Omelette. — Grate the corn from four ears, and 
cook in a boiler till tender, moistening as little as 
possible. Beat four eggs thoroughly, add three table- 
spoonfuls of cream, and bake in an omelette pan. 
When ready to fold, add the seasoned corn and turn 
out on a hot dish. 



MARIGOLD {Calendula officinalis. CompositcB). 

Sow in drills fifteen inches apart, early in April. 
Thin the plants out to a foot distant. The flowers 
of the pot marigold are gathered and dried and used 
as flavouring for soups, &c. 

MARJORAM {Origanum Vulgare. Labiata). 

A perennial plant of easy culture. Sow almost 

anywhere during spring or summer, as an edging 

to a garden path. The leaves are used for flavouring 

various dishes. 

ii6 



MINT 



MINT {Mentha viridis. Labiates). 

Mint prefers cool, deep soil, and does not object 
to partial shade. It revels in moisture. The old 
stems should be cut down every autumn and a mulch 
of old hotbed laid on will improve the quality of the 
next season's growth. It may be raised from seed 
sown in April, but is better propagated by division of 
old roots at the end of March. 



DISHES. 

Mint Jelly. — This can be made with the young, 
fresh leaves. Soak one ounce of gelatine in a pint 
of salted water until soft, when the water is discarded. 
Add one and a half cupfuls of granulated sugar. 
Crush one pint of green mint, and pour one quart of 
boiling water over it. Let it stand whilst you are 
doing the other things, then strain through a jelly-bag, 
and bring to the boil. Pour over the gelatine and 
sugar, and stir for a minute. Turn into jelly glasses, 
and when firm keep in a cold place. If sealed, these 
will keep some time, or they may be served as soon 
as cold. 

Mint Sandwiches. — Put into a basin a tablespoonful 
of fresh mint leaves cut fine, and pour over them a 
tablespoonful of hot water, and let it infuse for ten 
minutes. Strain, add two cupfuls of heavy whipped 
cream, salt and pepper to season, and one table- 
spoonful of gelatine, softened in a little cold water ; 

117 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

dissolve over hot water. Turn into a square mould 
to cool. Cut in slices, and place between thin slices 
of brown bread. 

Mint Sherbet. — Pour two cupfuls of boiling water 
over a bunch of bruised, fresh spearmint leaves. 
Cover, and let it stand on the back of the stove to 
infuse, then add one cupful of sugar. When the 
sugar is dissolved, strain, cool, add two-thirds of a 
cupful of grape juice, and one quarter of a cupful 
of lemon juice. Freeze to a much-hked consistency. 
Serve in sherbet glasses ; ornament the top of each 
glass with crystallised jelly and a sprig of mint. 

Mint Sauce. — Chop finely some mint — two or three 
tablespoonfuls ; add to this an equal quantity of 
brown sugar ; let it stand two hours, and just before 
using pour some brown vinegar over it, and dilute 
with a little cold water. This method will not affect 
people who suffer from indigestion. 

MUSHROOM {Agaricus Campestris. Fungi). 

For the growth of mushrooms it is almost indispen- 
sable that some pit or house protected from frost be 
available, though it is possible to make up successful 
beds out of doors during summer and early autumn. 
But an even temperature is necessary, and that never 
below 50°. It is not unusual to grow mushrooms 
under the staging of hothouses. 

Fresh horse manure in quantity is the first requisite 
of a mushroom bed. This should be as free from 
straw as possible, and should be stacked in a heap 

118 



MUSHROOM 

about three feet high, and be turned and restacked 
twice at weekly intervals, to take the fire out of it. 

Mix the manure well with about one-fourth its bulk 
of earth, and make up the bed about eighteen inches 
deep, leaving ail tidy and neat. The mixture should be 
homogeneous and well mingled, and the whole well 
trodden and compact. When the temperature is 
about 75° insert the spawn in pieces about 4x3x2 
inches in size, a foot apart all over the bed, including 
the sides. The spawn should be put in by hand, 
two inches deep. 

When the spawn has thoroughly permeated the bed 
the original pieces should be withdrawn, and all care- 
fully made smooth again. An inch of soil should now 
be laid over the whole bed, and watered moderately 
with tepid water. 

Watering in moderation must be attended to, and 
when the mushrooms appear they should be gathered, 
stem and all, as it is important not to leave the old 
stems rotting in the bed. 

For an outdoor bed the same procedure is carried 
out, and the bed is protected by a six-inch layer of 
hay or stray. A sheltered position should be chosen — 
much the sort of spot where one usually places the 
garden frames. Indeed, it is by no means bad prac- 
tice to make the bed in such a frame and cover the 
glass with mats. 

DISHES. 

Mushroom Croquettes. — Peel and trim half a 
pound of mushrooms, chop the stalks and trimmings 

119 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

fine and rinse them in water. Simmer the chopped 
trimmings for twenty minutes in milk to cover. 
Strain and reserve the hquor ; add cream or milk to 
make two cupfuls in all ; season with salt and pepper. 
Cut the caps into small pieces, and fry in butter. 
Add two chopped hard - boiled eggs and a table- 
spoonful of the sauce. Heat thoroughly, take from 
the fire, and add the yolks of two raw eggs ; cool, and 
shape into croquettes. Dip in the whites of two eggs 
and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Serve with the sauce. 

Stewed Mushrooms. — Pound in a mortar a few bits 
of onion. Put in a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of oil. Brown to a 
light colour, then add twelve mushrooms cut in slices. 
Stew slowly for one hour ; add a little salt and pepper 
and a good teaspoonful of flour mixed smooth with 
water ; boil for three minutes, and serve very hot. 

Mushroom Pie. — Take half a pound of butter-beans, 
a quarter of a pound of mushrooms, one pound of 
chestnuts, two onions, one hard-boiled egg, one tea- 
cupful of tapioca (soaked overnight), some short crust 
pastry. 

Fill a dish with alternate layers of the above 
ingredients ; add seasoning to taste. The onions and 
mushrooms to be fried, the chestnuts boiled and 
pealed, the butter-beans cooked the day before until 
quite soft, and the egg cut into slices. Cover with 
the pastry made as follows : 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of nut butter, 
mix with cold water. Brush over with beaten egg, 
and bake. 

I20 



MUSHROOM 

Gravy with the Pie. — Melt one ounce of butter in 
a saucepan, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and cook 
till a rich dark brown, stirring all the time. Add 
half a pint of vegetable stock, and bring to the boil. 
Before serving, add half a teaspoonful of marmite. 
Marmite is a pure vegetable extract, to be had 
from the Marmite Extract Company, 59 Eastcheap, 
London, E.G. 

Mushroom Patties. — Dried or fresh mushrooms, 
light pastry, milk, seasoning, flour, and butter. 

Put the mushrooms (if dried, they must be soaked 
overnight) with two ounces of butter into a saucepan ; 
simmer slowly till they shrink and give out their 
juice ; stir in an ounce of flour, add a cup of milk, stir 
gently for five minutes, let it remain for half an 
hour, and season with pepper and salt. Line patty- 
pans with pastry, fill with the mushroom mixture, 
and bake. 

Mushrooms ^ la Provengale. — Slice off that part 
of the tomato that adheres to the stalk ; scoop out 
the seeds without breaking the sides of the fruit, and 
place them in a circular order in a saut6-pan con- 
taining about a gill of salad oil ; next chop up half 
a bottle of mushrooms, a little parsley, and four 
shallots ; put these into a stewpan, season with 
pepper and salt, and add a little chopped thyme ; 
fry these for about five minutes, then mix in three 
yolks of eggs ; fill the tomatoes with this prepara- 
tion ; shake some light-coloured raspings of bread 
over them, and place them over a brisk fire, holding a 
red-hot salamander over them for about ten minutes, 

121 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

by which time they will be done ; dish them up ; pour 
some brown sauce round the base, and serve. 

Cream Mushrooms. — ^Peel one pound of fresh 
mushrooms, cut off the stalks. Beat up two ounces 
of butter in a sautd-pan or a stewpan ; put in the 
mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, and cook 
over a moderate fire for ten minutes, then add half 
a pint of cream or milk and cream. Bake for about 
five minutes, and thicken with one ounce of butter 
kneaded with half an ounce of flour. Dish up, and 
serve hot. 

Mushroom Omelette. — Take three large mushrooms 
chopped finely, fry lightly in three ounces of butter. 
Add three eggs, well beaten, yolks and whites sepa- 
rately, and two tablespoonfuls of milk ; season with 
pepper and salt. Pour into the pan, and fry in hot 
butter. Fry well both sides. 

Stuffed Mushrooms. — Wash and chop finely the trim- 
mings and stalks of sixteen large fresh mushrooms, fry 
the trimmings in oil, and add half a cupful of tomato 
sauce, with salt and red pepper to season. Add equal 
parts of fresh bread crumbs and grated Parmesan 
cheese until a smooth, thick paste is formed. Season 
with minced parsley. Fill the mushroom caps, and 
arrange on a baking dish. Sprinkle with crumbs 
and grated cheese, moisten with olive oil, and bake 
for fifteen minutes. Sprinkle with lemon juice and 
serve. 

Mushroom Rolls. — Scoop out the crumb from 
small dinner rolls, cut in half, and fill the cavity 
with mushroom mixture as follows : 

122 



MUSHROOM 

Clean a quarter of a pound of button mushrooms, 
cut them small, stew them in a small stewpan with 
one ounce of butter ; season with pepper and salt, 
and when the mushrooms are tender, stir in one 
ounce of flour mixed to a smooth paste with a gill 
of cream or milk. Bring the mixture to the boil for a 
minute or two, and use it just before it is cold. 

Curried Mushrooms. — Fry a small chopped onion 
in butter, with a teaspoonful each of flour and curry 
powder, add a cupful of stock, and cook until thick, 
stirring constantly. Take from the fire, season with 
salt and pepper and lemon juice, and strain over fried 
mushrooms arranged on a buttered dish. 

Broiled Mushrooms. — (i) Peel some large mush- 
rooms. Broil on a buttered gridiron, inside up. 
Season and serve on buttered toast. Melted butter, 
mixed with minced parsley and chives, and seasoned 
with salt and pepper, may be served separately if 
desired, or melted butter and lemon juice. 

(2) Fry separately in melted butter large fresh 
mushrooms whole, and fresh mushrooms chopped. 
Add cream or milk to the minced mushrooms, using 
enough to cover, and simmer for ten minutes. Spread 
the minced mixture on buttered toast, and lay a large 
broiled mushroom on each piece. Season with salt 
and pepper, and if desired, a little grated nutmeg or 
lemon juice. 

Baked Mushrooms. — Peel a dozen large mush- 
rooms, put into a buttered dripping-pan, inside up, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot with butter, and 
pour over two-thirds of a cupful of cream. Bake 

123 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

for ten minutes in a hot oven and serve on toast, 
with some gravy poured over. The cream may be 
omitted and two tablespoonfuls of butter used instead. 
Scalloped Mushroom. — Mince some mushrooms 
rather finely, peel and chop a shallot, melt an ounce 
of butter and fry it ; then add half a gill of tomato 
sauce, two tablespoonfuls of cream, some bread- 
crumbs and chopped parsley, and a tablespoonful of 
sherry, with seasoning to taste. Butter some shells, 
when the mixture is thoroughly hot pour it into the 
shells, cover with bread crumbs and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley ; divide about an ounce and a half 
of butter into little bits, and put them on to the tops 
of the filled shells ; bake in a very hot oven, so as to 
brown the surface ; dish up in the shells.^ — Mrs. B. C. 
Stephenson' s receipe. 

MUSTARD {Sinapis alba. Ord. CrucifercB). 

Exactly the same treatment is required for this as 
for cress. Mustard germinates more quickly than the 
latter, therefore sow it three days after the accom- 
panying cress. 

ONION {Allium cepa. Ord. Liliacece). 

There is no vegetable, except the potato, more 

continually in demand in the kitchen than this 

admirable bulb. It is indispensable in soups, stews, 

sauces, salads, stuffing, while in its native simplicity, 

braised, boiled, or fried, it delights many a heart on 

a cold winter's day. 

124 



ONION 

The ground that is to carry onions must be deeply 
trenched and richly manured. This should be done 
?is early in the winter as possible, as the onion must 
be sown early in the year, and the ground is all the 
better for being mellowed by frost. A moderate 
dressing of kainit may be dug into the top spit at 
the same time that the good stuff from the stable 
goes into the bottom of the trench. 

The ground should be levelled down and a dressing 
of soot sprinkled over the surface and raked in, and in 
February or March, as early, indeed, as the season 
permits, the seed must go in. Choose a dry day 
when the soil is almost dusty, tread the ground firm, 
and draw shallow drills across it, a foot apart. The 
seed must be sown very thinly and evenly, and the 
drills covered over by means of the rake. This being 
done the gardener should perform a sort of step 
dance over the entire bed, treading the ground as 
firm as possible ; indeed, some pass the garden roller 
over it, but this is an unsafe practice, as if the ground 
be the least bit damp, earth will stick to the roller, 
and with it the precious seeds. The bed should be 
lightly finished with the rake, and left as tidy and 
smooth as a billiard table. 

With the growth of the onions will come an in- 
numerable crop of weeds. In theory these should be 
hand-weeded, but there is no objection to using the 
Dutch hoe, once. The hoe must be carefully used, 
and must not drive deeply into the soil, for the onions 
must not be loosened. All subsequent weeding must 
be done by hand. 

125 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

As soon as the onions are well up, a sprinkling of 
soot should be administered every two or three weeks. 
This not only serves as an invaluable manure, but 
helps to keep the onion grub at bay. One cannot 
blame the grub for being fond of onions, but one 
does not desire his presence, as he may easily ruin 
the entire crop. In showery weather occasional 
slight top-dressings of nitrate may be given with 
advantage, say about once a month. 

The onions will need to be thinned in May and 
again during June, and very useful these thinnings 
are in the salad bowl. The second thinning need not 
be done all at once, but the bed may be systemati- 
cally used from as onions are required; be this as it 
may, by the first week in July there should be a good 
four inches between each bulb. 

About the beginning of September knock the stems 
down with a rake handle, to induce the bulbs to ripen 
off, and harvest them in a perfectly dry condition a 
fortnight later. They should lie on the tool-shed 
floor, spread out to thoroughly dry ofi, for a couple 
of days before being bunched and stored. 

There are many good sorts of onions ; for the 
spring sowing a sound, good-keeping bulb is required ; 
Rousham Park Hero, Ailsa Craig, or James's Long- 
keeping are all good sorts, but on the whole we prefer 
the first for the small garden ; it yields a sound bulb 
of good size and quality. 

At the same time as the main crop is sown in early 
spring, a small breadth of the onion bed may usefully 
be devoted to pickling onions. For this purpose 

126 



ONION 

choose such a variety as Silverskin. The seed must 
be sown thickly and broadcast ; the little bulbs should 
stand cheek by jowl. Hand-weeding alone should 
be their portion, and they will be ready to harvest 
in July. 

In order to obtain early bulbs of large size, a 
sowing of a special variety of onion may be made 
in the open early in August. For this purpose the 
Tripoli onion or its like is preferred. There is none 
better than the Trebons onion ; it is a most excellent, 
mild-flavoured bulb, and will keep far into the winter. 

The bed chosen for this sowing should be open, 
dry, and exposed to air and sun. The plants will 
stand in it through an ordinary English winter, and 
in early March they should be planted with the trowel 
in the onion bed, in rows a foot apart, and six inches 
between each plant. Nitrate and soot should be their 
portion as for the spring-sown onions, and in July 
they will give a fine harvest. 

If the autumn-sown onions are a failure, as some- 
times happens, it is worth the gardener's while to sow 
a box of seed of Trebons or of a main crop variety in 
the hotbed in March, or earlier if possible. These 
plants will be put out in April, as advised above, 
and should give an abundant reward to the careful 
gardener. 

ONION DISHES. 

Boiled Onions. — Peel as many onions as are re- 
quired, standing while doing them in a draught of 
air, or close to the fire, so that the acrid smell may 

127 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

get away. The large Spanish onions are generally 
used for boiling, as their flavour is milder than that 
of the English onion. Boil in salted water for two 
hours or less. Serve on a drainer, with a little fresh 
butter put on, at the last minute, or cover with 
white sauce. 

Baked Onions. — Proceed as for boiled onions, but 
boil for one hour, and then put them whole into a 
buttered baking dish, and bake for an hour, basting 
them occasionally with a little butter. They may 
have a brown sauce poured over when served. 

Piccalilli {American Dish). — One peck of green 
tomatoes, one cupful of salt, six onions, four green 
peppers, allspice, clove, mustard seed, and vinegar. 
Wipe the fruit clean, cut into small pieces, sprinkle over 
them a cupful of salt, and let them stand overnight. In 
the morning drain off the liquor, add six onions, four 
green peppers sliced thin, one ounce each of allspice, 
cloves, and white mustard seed. Tie the spices in 
a muslin bag, cover with vinegar ; cook slowly in 
an Agate kettle for an hour or more until very tender. 
The mixture should be sealed in glass jars. 

Stuffed Onions. — Peel five white onions, boil them 
in salted water for one hour, changing the water 
once. Drain and scoop out the centre and fill with 
bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated 
cheese, and ketchup. Mash a little of the onion with 
the stuffing, and moisten with cream or milk. Wrap 
the onions in buttered paper, twist the ends ; put into 
a buttered pan and bake for an hour. Remove the 

paper, pour over melted butter, and serve. 

128 



ONION 

Onions and Cheese. — Peel four large onions, cut 
into half-inch slices and put them into a large flat 
buttered baking dish in one layer. Season with pepper 
and salt, cover the dish, and bake until tender, then 
sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, and return to the 
oven until the cheese is dissolved. Take up carefully, 
and serve with mustard. 

German Onion Pie. — Slice six onions, and fry until 
soft in a little butter or nutter. Add half a cupful 
of milk or cream, and thicken with a tablespoonful 
of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. Take 
from the fire, and add the yolk of an egg well beaten. 
Line a small deep baking dish with good pastry, fill 
with the onion mixture, and bake brown. Serve in 
the same dish. 

Onion Custard. — Cook six or eight onions until 
tender in boiling salted water, changing the water 
once. Drain and arrange them in a baking dish. 
Thicken a pint of hot milk with a tablespoonful of 
cornflour rubbed into two teaspoonfuls of butter, 
and gradually pour the sauce on two eggs well beaten. 
Season with salt and pepper ; pour over the onions, 
and bake until the custard is set. 

Onions with Eggs. — Peel and slice the onions, and 
fry until tender in butter, season with salt and pepper. 
Drain thoroughly, and put on a draining dish. 
Squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and serve with 
poached eggs arranged round. 

Onion Souffle. — Peel six or eight onions and boil 
until tender, changing the water once. Chop finely 
with a sprig of parsley, add salt and cayenne pepper 

129 I 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

to season, and a tablespoonful each of butter and 
cream, and add one cupful of very thick cream sauce, 
the yolk of one egg well beaten, and enough soft 
bread-crumbs to make a smooth thick paste. Fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites of two or three eggs, and 
bake in a buttered souffle dish. Serve with tomato 
or cream sauce. 

Escalloped Onions. — Put a layer of thinly sliced 
onions in a buttered baking dish ; salt, pepper, and 
butter to season. Cover with crumbs, and repeat 
until the dish is full, having crumbs on the top. 
Moisten with milk, and bake until brown, an hour or 
more. 

Stuffed Onions. — Take the centres out of some large 
onions which have been boiled for an hour, peel off 
the outside of the onions, make a stuffing of grated 
bread, melted butter, a tablespoonful of cream, salt 
and pepper, make it into a paste, and fill the onions 
with it. Place in a baking dish, and cover them with 
melted butter and grated bread, and bake in an oven. 

To Fry Onions. — Peel, and cut them up, dip them in 
flour and fry them for eight or ten minutes in very 
hot fat, strain them, and serve dry, with fried parsley. 

Onion Soup. See Soups. 

Frittelle (« Palermo Recipe). — Cut into small slices 
six onions, fry them lightly in oil, and when they are 
a golden brown add to them ten artichokes well 
cleaned, and cut into little pieces ; add two pounds 
of green peas and four pounds of beans which have 
been previously cooked. Add salt and fry lightly, 
adding to them two tablespoonfuls of oil. When the 

130 



PARSLEY 

vegetables are cooked, sugar them, and add some 
vinegar to make a savoury, bitter-sweet mixture. 
Serve in a covered dish. 



PARSLEY {Apium Petroselinum. UmbellifercB). 

Parsley once acquired a bad name, from the mis- 
use of a wild Sardinian kind. The Sardinians believed 
that they had absolutely no poisonous native plant, 
but this proved the exception to the rule, and the 
trusting natives who ate it died in such horrible 
fashion that the phrase " sardonic grin " arose from the 
contortions its effects produced upon their faces. 

Seed of our ordinary variety, however, may be 
sown at any time in spring or summer, but for 
summer use it is generally sown in March. Good 
garden soil will grow parsley. As the seed is slow and 
rather uncertain in germinating, it may be sown rather 
thicker than is usual for some seeds. As soon as the 
plants are in their second leaf single them in the 
row, a fortnight later thin out to nine inches apart. 
Parsley is generally used as an edging to the kitchen 
garden. 

A June sowing in a sheltered bed will provide 
plants for the winter, and the gardener must be 
prepared to give some protection of mats during 
severe weather if he wishes to always satisfy the 
cook. An August sowing will provide plants which 
in well-drained soil will usually stand the winter and 
carry the gardener well through the spring. 

Dried parsley intended for winter use should be 
131 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

gathered before it loses its tender shade of green. 
It is first blanched in boiling water for one minute, 
then put into the oven, which must not be too hot, 
and when dry rubbed through a sieve and stored in 
bottles for use. 

Fried Parsley. — Wash some sprigs of fresh parsley 
in cold water, then dry them carefully; put the 
parsley into a wire basket, and fry in butter, oil, or 
lard for about a minute, when it ought to be crisp. 

Chopped Parsley. — This is used to decorate new 
potatoes. Parsley is also used to flavour soups and 
sauces, and in sprigs to decorate savoury dishes. 

Dried Parsley. — Gather the parsley, and spread out 
to dry in front of the fire or in the oven if not too 
hot. When dry the leaves should be reduced to a 
fine powder by rubbing through a hair sieve. Store 
in well-corked bottles or air-tight tins. 

As parsley has a strong flavour, if used too freely it 
will spoil a soup or stuffing. It should be remem- 
bered that in use, dried parsley swells to twice its 
bulk. 



PARSNIP (Pastinaca sativa. Umbelliferce). 

To grow this useful root is a simple matter. 
Poorish, or partially exhausted, soil is no drawback, 
as there should be no recent manure in the top spit. 
But the ground should be deeply trenched and a 
slight dressing of manure buried deeply. The seed 
must be sown veiy thinly in March, in drills a foot 
apart. As soon as the plants are well in their second 

132 



PARSNIP 

leaf they should be singled, and a fortnight later 
thinned to six inches distance. A smallish root of 
good quality is " the Student " parsnip, suited in every 
way for the small garden. The crop will be ready 
for use in September, but it may remain in the 
ground and be dug throughout the winter as 
required. 

PARSNIP DISHES. 

To Boil Parsnips. — Wash and scrape the roots, put 
them in salted, boiling water to cover, and boil 
steadily for an hour to an hour and a half, or even 
longer if they are very large. They may be served 
plain, or covered with good white sauce. If very 
large, cut them in two or four lengthwise before 
boihng. 

Parsnips Saut§. — Boil and mash six or seven 
parsnips, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and stir in 
one tablespoonful of flour and one egg. Make 
them into round, small cakes, and fry in dripping 
or nutter, turning occasionally until brown on both 
sides. 

Baked Parsnips. — ^Boil until tender, peel, split, and 
put into a baking pan, flat side down ; sprinkle with 
sugar and bake until brown, basting with melted 
butter and syrup. 

Buttered Parsnips. — Scrape off the skins and boil 
the parsnips until tender, and cut lengthwise in thin 
slices. Put into a saucepan, with three or four table- 
spoonfuls of butter, pepper and salt and minced 
parsley to season. Shake over the fire until the 

133 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

mixture boils, and serve with white sauce poured 
over. A Httle cream may be added to the sauce. 
Sprinkle the parsnips with minced parsley before 
serving. 

Parsnip Balls. — Boil six large parsnips, cool, peel 
and grate ; add two eggs well beaten, and enough 
flour to bind the mixture together ; season to taste. 
Mould into small flat cakes and saut6 in butter, or 
shape into balls, first rubbing the hands with flour, 
and fry in a deep. fat. 

Parsnip Cakes. — Peel and cut up three or four 
parsnips ; cook until soft in salted water ; drain, 
chop finely, rub through a sieve. Season with salt 
and pepper, and add the yolks of three eggs well 
beaten. Heat thoroughly, adding a little flour, and 
cook to a stiff paste. Cool, shape into small flat 
cakes, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry brown in fat 
to cover. 

Escalloped Parsnips. — (i) Prepare three parsnips 
according to directions previously given, cutting the 
parsnips into dice. Put into a buttered baking dish 
in layers, sprinkling each layer with chopped onion. 
Cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and bake for half 
an hour. 

(2) Mash enough boiled parsnips to make a pint, 
and add two tablespoonfuls each of butter and cream, 
one egg well beaten, and a pinch each of salt and 
pepper. Put into a buttered baking dish alternate 
layers of parsnip and crumbs, having crumbs on the 
top. Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a quarter of 
a cupful of milk. Season with salt and pepper, and 

134 



GARDEN PEA 

pour over the parsnips. Bake until brown, and serve 
in a baking dish. The layers of crumbs and the milk 
may be omitted if liked. 

Fried Parsnips. — (i) Peel the parsnips, and boil 
until tender in salted water. Drain, and cut into 
half-inch slices lengthwise, or small strips. Season 
with salt, and cool. Dip in hot molasses, and fry 
in butter until brown, or dip in egg and crumbs and 
fry. Sprinkle with brown sugar, and put into the 
oven for ten minutes. 

(2) Boil parsnips, peel and cut into strips ; saut6 
in butter, and season with pepper, salt, and minced 
parsley and serve, or dip the strips in a batter, made of 
half a cupful of flour, two eggs, one tablespoonful of 
olive oil, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to season, 
and enough milk to make the batter of the proper 
consistency. Fry in deep fat. 

GARDEN PEA {Pisum sativum. Ord. Legummosce.) 

As known to the gardener there are two main 
divisions of the green pea, the rouiid-seeded and the 
wrinkled, the field pea and the marrow-fat. The first 
is hardier and earlier, may be sown in November, and 
with luck and a good situation may be gathered at the 
end of May. But the produce is distinctly second 
rate, and the small garden has room for the best 
alone. 

The wrinkled or marrow-fat pea, while not quite 
so hardy as its humbler sister, is of a flavour that 
places it quite apart, and with equal soil and chances 

135 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

it will probably be not more than ten days later than 
the round-seeded variety. 

The soil whatever its nature must be richly treated, 
and well dug. In a light soil deep trenching and 
well matured manure at the bottom of the trench will 
enable the roots to go well down, and give them 
welcome moisture and coolness in the heats of 
summer. It is this mechanical effect of manure that 
gardeners with rich, deep loam to deal with forget, 
when they recommend peas to be grown by use of 
artificial manures alone. If lime be wanting in the 
soil a dressing should be occasionally dug in, not as a 
yearly practice, as lime stays a long while about, but 
say once every three years. Basic slag and kainit are 
the chemical manures generally recommended for 
incorporating with the earth at the time of trenching, 
though we think that good garden soil can dispense 
with their frequent use. Certainly a slight sprinkling 
of nitrate when the plants first appear is invaluable in 
starting them into vigorous growth, and a fortnight or 
three weeks later a sprinkling of superphosphate helps 
to produce a first-rate crop. 

It is impossible to lay down any hard-and-fast rule 
for the times of sowing, soil, situation, climate, and 
season are all factors that decide the matter, and as 
the last is a varying one, no gardener can say that 
every year his first sowing of peas shall go in on 
a certain day, or even in a particular month. 

In a sandy Surrey loam marrow-fat peas are gener- 
ally sown with good results about mid-February, 
giving good dishes about the loth of June. But there 

136 



GARDEN PEA 

are seasons when it is impossible to hope for a sowing 
before March. One consolation the gardener has, 
the March sowing is not far behind the earlier; 
having more genial conditions from the very begin- 
ning, it grows right away, and will not be more than 
a week later than the earlier peas. Among the York- 
shire hills, where the subsoil is a cold clay, the 
gardener will not waste time and seed by sowing 
before the third week of March, and even then may 
prefer to begin with a hardy, round-seeded sort. 
These may be considered the extreme variations, and 
it must be a matter of yearly judgment when to begin 
sowing, and what variety to sow. 

For hot soils the selection of sorts is more difficult 
than for rich, deep moisture-holding loams. The 
three varieties we have found best in Surrey, in a 
gravelly loam, are Sutton's Little Marvel, Abundance, 
and Satisfaction. The Sherwood pea has also proved 
itself to be a most excellent second early variety, but 
it will be found even better where the soil is rather 
more retentive of moisture. In such a soil, it is 
a typical small garden pea, dwarf, an abundant 
cropper, and of excellent marrow-fat flavour. But 
when the gardener is not restricted to short varieties 
from reasons of space there are many splended taller 
kinds, such as " Duke of Albany," and best of all peas 
grown, " Ne plus ultra." 

The great object of the small gardener is to main- 
tain a succession of peas over as long a period as 
possible, and for this purpose dwarf peas are to be 
preferred, as they take up much less room on the 

137 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

ground, and enable the gardener to make many 
sowings for succession in his restricted space. The 
gardener is recommended to make a careful study 
from year to year of the varieties best suited to his 
special conditions, always bearing in mind the in- 
fluence of the different seasons on his experiments. 
Thus a rainy summer will give excellent results 
with a seed to which a dry summer would prove 
fatal. 

As far as experience goes, of all our garden produce 
the pea varies in its constitution more than any other, 
except perhaps the potato. Therefore a gardener 
beginning the study of vegetables in fresh ground 
and new conditions is recommended to sow quite 
small quantities of many sorts of pea from different 
growers, and to keep a note-book ; flavour, abund- 
ance, and liability to mildew being points to be con- 
sidered, as well as comparative earliness or lateness of 
cropping. 

The first sowing of peas, in mid-February, should 
be of an early dwarf variety, and made on a sunny, 
well-protected border ; the peas should be rolled 
in ■ paraffin and red-lead as a matter of routine, 
in order to protect them from birds and mice, and 
sown in drills three inches deep, the drills as wide 
apart as the height the peas will grow to, but never 
less than two feet distant. The drills should be about 
four inches wide, and the peas set in double rows 
down each drill one and a half to three inches 
between each seed, according to the variety. Two 
strands of black cotton should be stretched an inch 

138 



GARDEN PEA 

or so above the rows of seed as a discouragement to 
the birds. 

Gardeners habitually sow all seeds far too thickly, 
and peas especially so. The earliest sowings should 
be sown more thickly than the later, but two-thirds of 
a pint of seed should amply suffice for a row forty feet 
long. Soot occasionally dusted over the growing 
leaves as they push up will discourage the sparrows 
from utilising them as salad, and will also disappoint 
the slugs. If the garden holds many of the latter 
pests, soot should be thickly spread along each side of 
the rows. 

Successive sowings are to be made ; when the last 
sowing of seed shows above ground, it is time to put 
in the next. With the third sowing of earlies, a first 
sowing of second early peas should be made ; the 
latter take a week longer to come into bearing, and so 
the succession is maintained. In hot soil it is not 
much use sowing after the second week in May, and 
for this late sowing the ground must be dug very 
deeply and an extra special dose of old manure buried. 
In favourable districts and soil, peas sown at the end 
of the month and well into June will give good results 
as late as September ; a mildew-resisting variety 
should be chosen, and the rows spaced widely 
apart, to ensure full circulation of air round the 
plants. 

Rows of peas should never be sown closer than the 
height they are expected to attain. Catch crops of 
lettuce, spinach, radish, and so forth may be grown 
between them, and even leeks may be put out between 

139 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the taller and more widely spaced sorts with advan- 
tage. Pea sticks are an irritating little expense, and 
it will be found an economy to grow peas up wire- 
netting stretched along the centre of the row. This 
will last many years, and soon repay the extra first 
cost. We are decidedly of opinion that all peas, 
dwarf as well as tall varieties, should have the support 
of sticks or wire-netting, preferably the latter. Peas 
grown on such supports do not lie about on the 
ground, but gain all the sunshine and air available; 
they will fruit earlier and more abundantly than if 
left to flop about on damp earth. Wire-netting can 
be purchased in fifty-yard rolls ; a roll of three feet 
width costs about seven shillings, and one of half that 
width, quite tall enough for dwarf peas, about three 
and sixpence. 

PEA DISHES. 

To Boil Peas {Green Peas). — The one way to cook 
an English marrow-fat pea in perfect condition is 
to boil it. Take one peck of peas, shell them, and 
without loss of time put them into a saucepan of 
boiling water with one tablespoonful of salt, a piece 
of soda no larger than a pea, and a sprig of mint, 
as soon as the water comes to the boiling point again, 
draw the pan back, so that the peas may not cook too 
fast or they will jump out of their jackets ; this they 
will do if there is too much soda in the water. 

Boil for twenty minutes to half an hour, pour into 
a hot colander, heap up on a drainer, put a piece 
of fresh butter on the top, cover the dish, and send 

140 



GARDEN PEA 

them to table perfect. This is if the peas are grown 
in your own garden. 

If the peas are bought, and probably field grown, 
put two lumps of sugar in the water — this will im- 
prove their flavour ; they will also require boiling a 
little longer. 

Pease Pudding {Split Peas). — Soak half a pint of 
split peas, wash, and sort them over. Dip a pudding- 
cloth in boiling water, flour it well, put in the peas, 
and tie up loosely, allowing room for them to swell, 
and boil for three hours. Serve with piquant sauce. 

Green Pea Salad. — Drain a small can of peas, or 
one pint fresh-boiled green peas ; add a little pepper 
and salt, and one and a half cups of broken walnut 
meats, moisten with Mayonnaise dressing, and serve 
on a bed of lettuce leaves. 

Mashed Split Peas. — Soak a pint of split peas over- 
night, drain, cover with cold water, add a pinch of 
soda, and cook slowly for three hours or more. Strain 
and press the peas through a sieve, season with salt 
and pepper, moisten with boiling milk, and beat until 
smooth. Turn into a buttered baking dish and bake 
for one hour ; serve in the same dish. 

Pea Chowder. — Prepare according to the directions 
given for baked mashed peas. Add to the peas a 
can of corn, a cupful of milk, salt and pepper to 
season ; cover, and cook slowly for thirty minutes, 
and then add a tablespoonful of butter, and serve. 

Pur^e of Green Peas. — Shell four pounds of fresh 
green peas when they are getting old; put them 
in an earthenware pot, cover them with cold water, 

141 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and boil for half an hour or longer with a sprig of 
mint. Take out one cupful of peas, rub the rest 
through a sieve, and mix in an earthen pot, with one 
quart of milk, four ounces of butter, and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Stir until the soup is thick. Add 
a pinch of salt and grated nutmeg, and lastly the 
whole peas, and serve hot. 

Peas en Croustades. — Boil a quart of green peas 
with a sprig of mint until tender twenty minutes 
to half an hour. Make a sauce of one cupful of milk, 
one tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of three eggs, 
well beaten, salt and pepper to season. Mix with the 
peas and fill timbale shells or croustades. These are 
made by cutting stale bread in blocks, hollowing out 
the centres, and toasting or frying the shells thus 
made. Half a cupful of boiled carrots cut into dice, 
fried in butter, and seasoned with a few drops of 
lemon juice may be added to the peas. 

Pea Cakes {Dried Peas). — Boil three cupfuls of peas 
in salted water until tender, and put through a sieve, 
seasoning with salt, pepper, and butter. Make a 
batter of one cupful of milk, two beaten eggs, and 
half a cupful of flour sifted with half a teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Stir the pulp into the batter, mixing 
thoroughly, and fry by spoonfuls in deep fat. 

Curry of Green Peas and Potatoes. — Two or more 
parboiled potatoes, cut into dice, a pint of boiled green 
peas, an onion chopped very finely, an apple peeled 
and chopped in small dice, a teaspoonful of curry 
powder, a tablespoonful of mixed pickles chopped, 
and a tablespoonful of chutney. Put two ounces of 

142 



GARDEN PEA 

butter in a saucepan, add the chopped onion and 
curry powder, cook slowly, stirring frequently till 
the onion is quite tender ; stir in a tablespoonful of 
flour, add a breakfast cupful of vegetable stock, or 
water and milk in equal parts. Let all simmer to- 
gether for five minutes, add the peas, potatoes, apples, 
pickles, and chutney, draw to one side, and simmer 
slowly for twenty minutes or longer. Serve on a 
very hot dish with a border of boiled rice. 

Saut6 Green Peas. — Boil a pint of shelled peas in 
a stewpan in a quart of boiling water ; add a very 
little green mint, a teaspoonful of salt and a pinch 
of moist sugar, when the peas are tender, about twenty 
minutes, drain the water from them and add half an 
ounce of fresh butter, and a pinch of caster sugar and 
a little pepper, toss them over the fire for a few 
minutes and serve. 

Petits Pois [Bottled Peas). — Put the peas into a 
saucepan, with a lump of butter and a little salt. 
Place on the fire, and stir with a wooden spoon; 
add ten or twelve very tiny onions and the small 
heart of a lettuce. Simmer for an hour without 
water, add a little sugar and more butter, and serve. 

Boiled Dried Peas. — ^Wash the peas, and soak them 
in water for twelve hours ; then drain off the water 
and put them into boiling water with a little salt 
and a pinch of soda ; keep the pan on the side of 
the fire, and simmer for two hours ; drain them, and 
put them in a clean saucepan, with one ounce of 
butter, and a little pepper and salt, scatter some 
finely chopped parsley over them, and serve very hot. 

143 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Green Pea Omelette. — Make an omelette in the 
usual way, adding two or three tablespoonfuls of milk 
and two or three drops of onion juice ; put two table- 
spoonfuls of young boiled peas into the middle of 
the omelette when finished and fold over on a very 
hot dish garnished with young boiled peas. 

Bottle Peas. — Fill large-mouthed glass bottles with 
young, freshly gathered shelled peas ; add a good tea- 
spoonful of salt and half a gill of water, cold ; screw 
on the metal tops tightly, and tie a wisp of straw 
round each bottle to prevent them cracking each 
other before putting them in a stock pot filled up with 
hot water ; boil fast for half an hour, then take them 
off the fire. When the bottles are cold, test them 
whether any of them leak ; keep the bottles in a 
dry, cool place. 

POTATO {Solanum tuberosum. Solanacece). 

In the small garden the early potato is the only 
one worth finding room for. As a rule the main 
crop potato can be bought as cheaply as it can be 
grown, and as good. But a newly dug young 
potato from one's own patch is incomparably better 
than the product of the Channel Islands as it reaches 
the table. 

Good, wholesome, light, rich soil will grow a good 
early potato. Last year's celery bed will make good 
ground for either peas or potatoes, but to grow 
potatoes well, the ground needs plenty of manure. 
We give it rather an extra dose in the small garden, 

144 



POTATO 

because our economy of space makes it necessary to 
grow the Brussels sprouts between the potato rows. 

The gardener will learn by experiment what variety 
suits his soil best, but one with dwarf, compact haulm 
is to be preferred on account of the sprouts, which 
will have to fight for their share of light and air for a 
good month. Myatt's Early Ashleaf is such a variety ; 
but whatever the kind chosen, the tubers should be 
placed, early in February, in a light place exposed to 
full sun, but protected from frost. This will induce 
them to start into growth, and push up dark green 
or purple shoots that are plump and sturdy. A 
sprinkling with tepid water hastens the process, but 
they must not be kept watered. On no account 
must they be allowed to shoot forth in the dark, or 
lank anaemic growth will result that will be perfectly 
useless. 

As Brussels sprouts may have to grow among the 
potatoes, the rows must be thirty inches asunder. 
Do not plant with a dibber — it results in uneven 
growth — but open trenches with the hoe across the 
ground. These should be four inches deep. The 
seed potatoes should be cut, the larger tubers making 
into two or more sets, each with a good shoot on it, 
or at least a plump and promising "eye," but even the 
small ones should have a piece cut away in order to 
promote the rapid decay of the substance of the 
tuber, and its sending its goodness into root and top. 
The sets should be placed a foot apart in the trenches 
and the earth returned, either with the hoe, or merely 
scuffled in with the feet. 

145 K 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

As soon as the green shoots show sufficiently above 
the ground to indicate the rows clearly, earth should 
be drawn up to them from either side, ridging up the 
rows, and covering the green shoots about an inch. 
No time is to be lost in performing this operation, as 
by this means the tender shoots will be protected from 
the spring frosts. A week or ten days later this will 
have to be repeated, and early in May, say about the 
loth, it must be done a third and final time. 

Nothing now remains but to wait for cropping 
time, and to hope no late frost may cut the tops 
down. The first dish of young potatoes should be 
dug in the second week of June, and by the loth of 
July the crop should be ready for lifting. Do not 
wait for the haulm to die down before doing this, but 
as soon as the tubers have come to their full growth 
choose a fine, hot, dry day, and dig the whole crop 
up. Shake the potatoes free from adhering soil, and 
clear away the haulm, and leave them lying on the 
sun-baked ground for several hours for the tender 
skins to harden before removing them to the tool- 
shed floor, where they may lie not more than a 
couple of days, secure from dew or rain, to ripen 
off before storing. 

The haulm should at once be burned with other 
rubbish, as we do not want it to He about and rot, 
and form excellent harbourage for germs of the 
potato disease, which may linger in the ground for 
years. 

Main crop potatoes are planted in the same way 
as early ones, the rows should never be less than 

146 



POTATO 

thirty inches apart, and the sets should be fifteen to 
eighteen inches in the row ; when the stems are well 
up they should be earthed up, and this operation may 
be repeated. The crop will be ready for hfting in 
September or October, according to the variety. 
The potato disease, which has destroyed so many 
thousands of tons of tubers, can be almost certainly 
guarded against. The potato tops should be sprayed 
with Bordeaux mixture in mid-June, and again six 
weeks later, whether the disease has manifested itself 
or not. This is practically a specific, and in some of 
our colonies a farmer who neglected this precaution, 
and so allowed his crop to become infected and 
infectious, would have an exceedingly poor time 
when he met his brother growers ; it ought to be so 
in England. 

POTATO DISHES. 

To Boil Potatoes. — Winter potatoes differ so much 
in quality and habit that different varieties require 
different treatment. If they turn black when cooked, 
or fall away outside before the heart is tender, try 
them steamed in their jackets, or steamed without. 

In England boiling the peeled potato is the 
universal custom, but in Ireland they are wiser, and 
cook the tuber in the skin. 

Wash the potatoes thoroughly, put into clean 
water, and peel with a sharp knife ; let the peel be 
as thin as possible, as the best part of a potato lies 
near the outside; turn the tuber while peeling, this 
greatly facilitates the process; cut out the eyes with^ 

147 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

a pointed knife ; plunge into abundance of cold water 
to cover. Put into a saucepan of boiling water, a 
teaspoonful of salt to half a gallon of water, cook for 
half an hour or a little less ; drain off the water, 
put on one side of the stove for five minutes, shaking 
constantly, dish very hot, and serve. If it is neces- 
sary to keep them hot for some time, do not let them 
remain in the water, but after draining draw to one 
side, and put a clean towel, folded up in the pan, so 
as to absorb the steam. 

Steamed Potatoes. — Prepare as for boiling, steam 
for three-quarters of an hour ; ten minutes before they 
are done, sprinkle a little salt over them. Arrange 
neatly on the dish, and send to table very hot. 

Steamed Potatoes in their Jackets. — Wash 
thoroughly, and leave them to dry for a short time ; 
then with a sharp knife make an incision round the 
middle, steam for three-quarters of an hour, and 
before sending to table remove the skins ; these 
readily strip off in two parts. Be careful to keep 
the potatoes hot. 

Baked Potatoes. — Wash thoroughly, and leave 
them to dry for an hour ; then prick them and bake 
for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. A longer 
time may be required if the potatoes are very large. 
Choose tubers of equal size, and rather large. Up-to- 
Dates are the best bakers. Send to table, with a 
napkin folded in the dish, but on no account put 
a cover on ; this would make them limp and dull. 

Brown Potatoes. — Wash, peel, and dry the potatoes ; 
cut to an equal size. Put them in a dripping-tin, con- 

148 



POTATO 

taining about an inch of melted butter, or nutter ; let 
it boil before the potatoes are put in, baste occasion- 
ally, and when they have been in half an hour turn 
them over and brown the other side ; they will take 
an hour or more, according to their size. Drain on 
kitchen paper, and serve in a hot tureen. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil, and dry the potatoes 
according to directions above ; then draw the sauce- 
pan to one side and beat the potatoes with a fork, 
or put them through a masher. Add half a cupful of 
hot milk, with a piece of butter dissolved in it, and a 
little white pepper. More or less milk may be used 
according to the quantity of potatoes ; they should 
be smooth and creamy, but not sticky. 

Browned Potatoes. — Proceed as for mashed pota- 
toes ; heap them up in the centre of a hot vegetable 
tureen, roughen them with a fork drawn across and 
across. Then put in the oven to brown for a quarter 
of an hour or ten minutes, or they may be browned 
in front of the fire or with a salamander. 

New Potatoes. — Wash in two or three waters to 
remove the sand ; then if they are freshly dug, the skin 
may be rubbed off with a gentle movement of your 
thumb. The eyes will need to be removed after- 
wards, but this method prepares the potatoes quickly, 
and with no waste ; it also preserves their shape. 
Drop them into a bowl of cold water as they are 
finished. All potatoes turn brown if exposed to the 
air without their skin when raw. 

Allow half an hour to cook them, and see that they 
are all of the same size as nearly as may be. Put 

149 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

them in cold water, enough to quite cover, add a 
pinch of salt and a sprig of mint, and bring to the 
boiling point. When tender pour off the water and 
drain for a minute, then dish very hot, with a piece 
of fresh butter. Sometimes a sprinkling of chopped 
parsley is added, but this interferes with the delicate 
flavour of the potatoes, though it dresses the dish. 

Cold New Potatoes. — (i) These may be used in 
various ways — none should ever be wasted ; they make 
a charming addition to a salad, cut in slices, and put 
in the bottom of the bowl ; cover with lettuce torn into 
shreds, dress with a tiny pinch of salt, a good table- 
spoonful of oil, toss well, then add half a teaspoonful 
of sugar, half a tablespoonful of vinegar ; mix 
thoroughly, decorate with sliced tomatoes and hard- 
boiled eggs, cucumber, cold boiled peas, or young 
cold, boiled carrots. 

Cold Boiled New Potatoes. — (2) They may also be 
sliced and fried in butter or nutter, with a sprinkle 
of pepper and salt, and a little chopped parsley 
sprinkled over them. 

Children's Pudding. — Beat two ounces of sugar 
and two ounces of butter together until smooth ; beat 
two eggs together well, then stir into the butter, 
adding a little juice and the grated rind of a lemon, 
a little salt, and a little milk; pour this on to six 
tablespoonfuls of mashed potatoes. Mix the whole 
thoroughly well together ; pour it into a greased pie- 
dish, and bake for about half an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Potato Omelette.— Press out the floury part of a 
150 



POTATO 

large baked potato ; pass through a fine sieve ; mix 
with it the yolks of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of milk, a few drops of lemon juice, a pinch of nutmeg, 
a little salt and pepper ; whisk the whites stiff, stir 
them lightly in, and fry the omelette in one ounce of 
hot butter, cook very lightly, and roll up very quickly. 

Potato Pie. — Peel and slice two pounds of potatoes 
and one stick of celery, shred an onion, and fry it in 
butter ; put the whole into a pie-dish, season with 
pepper and salt, add a little milk or water, cover with 
short-crust paste, and bake in a quick oven for an 
hour. 

Potato Niidelan. — Make your niidelans as the 
Italian gnocchi (see Miscellaneous Dishes) ; only in- 
stead of flour make them with mashed potatoes. Boil 
them for six minutes, and sprinkle them with more 
grated Gruy^re or Parmesan cheese, and pour over 
some brown melted butter flavoured with onion. 

French Potato Pudding. — Cook and mash some 
floury potatoes, rub them through a sieve into a 
large dish, make into a paste by adding two ounces of 
fresh butter and half a tumbler of cream or milk ; beat 
it into a smooth paste, season with salt and pepper, 
then add three well-beaten yolks of eggs ; butter a 
mould, and pour in the potato mixture ; make 
a hole in the centre, into which put some cooked 
and seasoned mushrooms ; cover the top with a piece 
of the paste, and cook in the oven ; when finished 
turn it into a dish, and serve hot. 

Potato Rissoles. — Wash, peel, and boil ten potatoes, 
drain and rub them through a wire sieve. Place 

151 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

them in a basin with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, 
and add two yolks of eggs, one tablespoonful of 
cream, and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Beat up till smooth, make up into rissole shapes, 
egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Drain 
on kitchen paper, and dish up on a folded napkin or 
paper. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — (i) Cut the tops from each of 
six potatoes, boiled or baked in their jackets. Scoop 
out the pulp, and mash to a smooth paste with three 
tablespoonfuls of butter ; add cream, and salt and 
pepper to season, and a quarter of a cupful of grated 
cheese, and cook to a smooth paste. Take from the 
fire, and stir in one well-beaten egg. Fill the skins, 
and bake. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — (2) Peel some large potatoes, take 
out the inside, and put in each one a stuffing made 
as follows : — One cup of bread-crumbs, one cup of 
ground nuts, and a little chopped thyme and parsley. 
Put the potatoes, with two ounces of butter, in a baking 
tin to bake in a hot oven for an hour and a half. Baste 
frequently. 

Italian Potato Omelette. — Mince up two cold 
boiled potatoes, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and 
put them into a frying-pan in which two ounces 
of butter have been melted. Spread the potato one- 
third of an inch deep in the pan, and cook slowly 
over a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour, then 
turn over, as you would any other omelette, and cook 
the other side. Serve hot. 

Stewed Potatoes in a Paper Bag.— Wash and peel 
152 



POTATO 

as many potatoes as are wanted. Cut each into 
four thick slices and put into a greased bag, with a 
finely chopped peeled onion, one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, half a cupful of dripping, salt and 
pepper to taste, and half a cupful of water. Bake in 
the oven for forty minutes or an hour. Turn out on 
to a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Nut and Potato Croquettes. — Two cupfuls of hot 
mashed potatoes and three tablespoonfuls of cream, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth of a teaspoonful 
of pepper, a few grains of cayenne, and a few drops of 
onion juice. Beat thoroughly, and add the yolk of an 
egg. Mix with a quarter of a cupful of cream until of 
the consistency of a thick paste ; then add another 
yolk of an egg, and leave it to cool. Make' a mixture 
of ground nuts and a little cream, with the well- 
beaten white of an egg, and seasoning. Shape the 
potato mixture into small nests, fill the nests with 
nut mixture, cover with potato mixture, and roll into 
balls. Dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat, 
and drain on kitchen paper. 

Potato Puff. — (i) Beat to a cream two cupfuls of cold 
mashed potatoes and two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter. Add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 
a cupful of cream or milk ; salt and pepper to season. 
Fold in the stiffly beaten white of the eggs and pour 
into a buttered baking dish, and bake until well puffed 
and brown, about three-quarters of an hour. 

Potato Puff. — (2) Beat with a fork three cold 
boiled potatoes; add a pinch of salt, half a cupful 
of milk, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, two eggs 

153 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

well beaten, and enough flour to make a batter that 
will drop from a spoon ; sift in half a teaspoonful of 
baking powder with the flour. Drop by spoonfuls 
into deep fat, and fry brown. 

Escalloped Potatoes and Eggs.— Slice finely four 
cold boiled potatoes and six hard-boiled eggs. Put 
a layer of potatoes into a buttered baking dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with a layer of 
boiled eggs, and repeat until the dish is full, having 
potatoes on the top. Pour over two cupfuls of thin 
cream and some white sauce. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, and sprinkle with grated cheese if desired. 
Bake until the crumbs are brown, half to three- 
quarters of an hour. Freshly boiled potatoes may be 
used in the same way. 

Potato Timbales. — Cook, drain, and rub through 
a sieve enough boiled potatoes to make one pound. 
Put into a bowl with three ounces of butter melted, two 
whole eggs and the yolks of two. Season with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix thoroughly. 
Butter some plain timbale moulds, sprinkle with 
crumbs over the inside, fill with the potato mixture. 
Sprinkle with crumbs and dot with butter, and bake 
for one hour. Let the moulds stand for a few minutes 
before turning out. 

Potato with Cheese Sauce. — Boil and mash one 
dozen peeled potatoes. Season with salt and pepper 
and melted butter ; add enough milk to make very 
soft, and beat until very light. Heap into the centre 
of a baking dish and make a hole in the centre. 
Brush with the beaten white of egg, and brown in 

154 



PURSLANE 

the oven. Melt a cupful of butter, and stir in gradually 
five heaped tablespoonfuls of grated cheese and the 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Season with salt and 
cayenne. Stir until thick and smooth, and fill the 
hole in the potato mixture. Sprinkle with crumbs, 
and put into the oven for five minutes longer. 

Deviled Stuffed Potatoes. — Split lengthways, re- 
move the pulp from six baked potatoes. Mash 
smoothly, and add one hard-boiled egg chopped 
finely. Salt, cayenne, and onion juice to season, 
and a little made mustard. Fill the shells with the 
mixture, and brown in the oven. 



PURSLANE {Portulacea oleracea. Portulacace<z). 

A light soil and a sunny border are best for this 
plant, which is a half-hardy annual. Successional 
sowings may be made from May to the beginning of 
August, in shallow drills ; the plants should stand 
six inches apart. Frequent waterings are necessary 
during dry weather. 

The leaves are gathered as required, and either 
cooked or used in salads. 

The season of this subject may be prolonged by 
means of successional sowings made in frames. 

Salad. — Purslane is a kitchen-garden annual which 
has antiscorbutic properties. There are several varie- 
ties of it, the best known being the golden purs- 
lane, which, properly dressed, makes a tasty and 
much appreciated salad. It is prepared like an 
ordinary salad, with the addition of pimpernel, 

15S 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

chervil, and tarragon. The stalks of purslane can 
be pickled in vinegar, like gherkins. 



RADISH {Raphanus sativus. CrucifercR). 

The earliest radishes may be sown in a frame in 
January. A light, mellow soil is desirable, and if the 
slight bottom-heat of a nearly exhausted hotbed be 
available, the radishes will be all the earlier. For 
anything in the nature of forcing or framework it is 
important to select a quick-growing, forcing variety 
with a strong tendency to the formation of root 
rather than top, such as Early French Breakfast or 
Wood's frame varieties. Plenty of moisture and 
plenty of air during non-frosty days are the secrets 
of growing radishes in a frame. 

Later sowings of radish, beginning in March, may 
be made periodically, according to the demand, as 
catch crops beneath a warm wall or fence, then 
among early peas and in similar situations, and in 
summer in a cool spot, with plenty of moisture 
available. 

A radish must grow quickly and evenly, or it will 
be worthless. Therefore they must have plenty of 
moisture, and not be crowded ; half an inch apart 
is quite near enough to grow them, whether sown 
broadcast or in shallow drills. 

Winter radishes may be sown in July or August in 
drills six inches apart, the plants thinned to three inches 
in the rows. These form a pleasant addition to winter 
salads, and are pulled as wanted, peeled and sliced, 

156 



RHUBARB 

much in the manner of cucumbers. The best variety 
for winter salads is perhaps Large White Winter 
Spanish ; we have also grown the Chinese Rose 
Radish with success. Winter radishes are apt to be 
rather strong and pungent, and it is largely on account 
of its flavour we prefer the first named. 

RAMPION [Campanula Rapunculus. Campanulacecs). 

This biennial native plant is not much used in the 
kitchen. Two sowings may be made of it, one in 
May, the other six weeks later. Seed should be 
sown very thinly in drills nine inches apart, and the 
plants thinned to three inches distance in the rows. 
Rampion requires a plentiful supply of water, and a 
fairly rich soil. 

The roots will stand in the ground all the winter, 
and may be dug for use as needed from October 
onwards. 

The roots and leaves are used either raw in salads, 
or the roots may be boiled and used after the manner 
of beetroots, or cooked and served as a vegetable, like 
parsnips. 

RHUBARB {Rheum. Pofygonacece). 

As this is a permanent crop the ground should be 
deeply trenched and well manured for its reception. 
It prefers moist, cool soil, and is extremely hardy. 
It is best propagated by division of the root, a good 
crown bud with each root division. 

157 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

February is the best month to plant, just before 
the roots in the open would be naturally starting into 
growth. The distance between the plants will depend 
both upon the variety selected and the nature of the 
soil ; they can be advantageously planted more closely 
in a dry, thin soil than in a deep, cool loam, where 
they will naturally attain a much larger size. For 
the small garden a small early red variety is recom- 
mended, as this is a garden product well worth 
growing for an early crop of well-flavoured produce : 
eighteen to thirty inches distance should be allowed be- 
tween the plants, according to circumstances. A shady 
situation among fruit-trees will do well for rhubarb. 

The plants must not be pulled from the first year, 
and should have a mulch given towards the end of 
May to tide them over the summer. Late in January, 
or in February, boxes or pots should be placed over 
some of the crowns ; or a tripod of stakes may be 
placed over the crowns, and loose litter shaken over. 
We dislike rhubarb forced by means of hot manure, 
and think this method completely ruins the flavour. 

Through the summer the plants will be none the 
worse for a very occasional watering with weak liquid 
manure during showery weather. As the leaves die 
down during autumn they should be cleared away, 
and all made tidy for the winter. 

RHUBARB DISHES. 

Rhubarb Jam. — Peel the sticks of rhubarb, cut 
into short lengths, and weigh one pound of preserving 

158 



RHUBARB 

sugar ; put the rhubarb in a bowl and spread the sugar 
over, let it stand all night. Next day strain off the 
juice and put in the preserving pan with half a tea- 
spoonful of ground ginger to each pound of rhubarb, 
adding the finely grated rind and juice of three lemons ; 
put the pan by the side of the fire, stir as it comes to 
the boiling point, and then add the rhubarb. It should 
boil from thirty to forty minutes. Fill jam pots, and 
paper over while hot. 

Rhubarb Fool is made like gooseberry fool, and 
tarts also are treated in the same way. 

Rhubarb Wine. — Wipe twenty to twenty-five pounds 
of rhubarb with a damp cloth, but do not skin it ; 
cut it into lengths, and crush it well in a wooden or 
earthenware vessel ; pour over it three to five gallons 
of cold water, to each gallon of liquid add three 
ounces of good preserving sugar, and the finely peeled 
rind, and juice of a lemon. Let it remain for ten 
days covered, but stirring it a little every day. At 
the end of ten days strain the liquid into another 
vessel, stirring till all its contents are dissolved ; then 
put it into a small cask, adding one ounce of isinglass 
dissolved previously in a little warm water, cover well 
the hole, and leave it for ten days ; then cork it well, 
and do not disturb the cask for about a year, when 
it will be ready to bottle. 

Stewed Rhubarb. — Take a dozen sticks of early red 
rhubarb, wash it and trim the ends ; cut it with a 
sharp knife into two-inch or three-inch lengths ; put 
it into a stew jar in which there is already a syrup made 
from a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and half a pint 

159 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

of water ; let this syrup cook for a quarter of an hour, 
then drop the pieces of rhubarb into the boiUng syrup, 
and cook slowly until tender, basting it, and being 
careful the pieces do not break; less sugar may be 
needed. A piece of thin lemon rind and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice may be cooked with it. Serve in 
a glass dish, with whipped cream over, or Devonshire 
cream in a bowl, or custard in cups. 

SAGE {Salvia officinalis. Laiiatce). 

Sow in spring or early autumn in any good garden 
soil, either in the herb bed or as an edging to a 
pathway. 

The leaves may be used fresh or dried as a 
seasoning. 

SALSIFY {Tragopogon pcerifolius. Composites). 

Sometimes called "The Vegetable Oyster," sal- 
sify is a delicacy not too often seen in English 
gardens, yet it is easy to grow, very hardy, and a 
welcome addition to our winter list of vegetables. It 
should be sown in April, in ground without a trace 
of manure in the top spit, but with some well-matured 
stuff buried deeply. The drills should be a foot apart, 
and the seed sown thinly, yet, as it sometimes comes 
up rather irregularly, not so thinly as for some root 
crops — parsnips, for instance. Early in May the plants 
may be singled in the rows, and three weeks later 

thinned to four inches distance. Through the summer 

i6o 



SALSIFY 

the Dutch hoe should be kept at work between the 
rows to kill weeds and prevent evaporation. 

The roots may stay in the ground through the 
winter in a well-drained soil, and be dug as wanted. 

Very early in spring the flowering shoots push up, 
and may be gathered and cooked in the way of 
asparagus ; gloves should be used for gathering these 
shoots, as they exude a juice that stains. In the 
small garden, however, it is hardly worth while to 
sacrifice roots and space for this extra crop. It is 
said that, like raw tomatoes, the taste for salsify is an 
acquired one. It is worth acquiring. 

DISHES. 

Boiled Salsify. — Wash the salsify, put in clean water 
and scrape it, being very careful to keep it under 
water or it will be a bad colour, and immediately 
put into cold water to which two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar have been added, this will blanch it ; be sure 
the salsify is covered by the water. Put into a sauce- 
pan of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt for 
one hour, more or less, according to the size of the 
roots. Place neatly on a drainer, and cover with 
good white sauce (see Sauces). Or it may be served 
with maitre d'hotel, Hollandaise, onion or Italian 
sauce. Be careful not to leave the salsify exposed to 
the air or it will blacken. 

Stewed Salsify. — Scrape about twenty heads of 
salsify, and cut them into pieces about two inches 
long. Sprinkle them with salt, and steep in water and 

i6i L 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

milk. Cut a small onion, half a carrot, half a turnip, 
and half a head of celery into small pieces ; put these 
in a stewpan, cook for twenty minutes. Mix one 
ounce of flour with a little milk and stir in, fill up 
with one quart of water, stir and bring to boil. Put 
in the salsify, and let it simmer gently until tender. 
Add one tablespoonful of cream, one of chopped 
parsley, and a little lemon juice. Season with pepper, 
grated nutmeg, and caster sugar. Reheat and ar- 
range the salsify neatly on a dish. Garnish with 
fried button mushrooms, pour over the sauce, and 
serve hot. 

Escalloped Salsify. — Press boiled salsify through a 
sieve, season with salt, cayenne, butter, and celery 
salt, and moisten with milk. Put into a buttered 
baking dish, cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and 
bake, standing the dish in a pan of hot water until 
the salsify is brown, or use sliced, boiled salsify 
alternately with cream, or drawn butter sauce and 
seasoning, and buttered crumbs ; have sauce on the 
top. Cover with crumbs wetted with cream, and bake 
brown. 

Escalloped Salsify and Celery. — Put slices of cooked 
salsify in layers into a buttered baking dish, season 
each layer with chopped celery and cover with white 
sauce. Cover with butter and crumbs, and bake for 
twenty minutes. 

Fried Salsify. — Prepare according to directions 
given for boiled salsify. Drain, press through a 
sieve, and add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, 
and salt and pepper to season. Drop by spoonfuls 

162 



SALSIFY 

on a buttered griddle, fry brown, and serve with 
tomato sauce, or ketchup. 

Filleted Salsify. — Cook some salsify until tender, 
slice it into quarters, lengthways, and cut it into 
three-inch lengths. Dip in egg and bread-crumbs, 
and fry crisp. Serve with parsley sauce and garnish 
with slices of lemon and parsley. — Sidney H. Beard, 
Guide-book of The Golden Age. 

Salsify Cakes. — Prepare according to directions 
given for boiled salsify ; drain and mash, shape into 
small flat cakes, and fry brown in butter or dripping. 

Salsify Fritters. — Make a batter of two eggs, 
half a cupful of milk, a pinch of salt, and enough 
sifted flour to make it of a proper consistency. Grate 
the roots of a bunch of salsify into the batter, and 
fry by spoonfuls in deep fat, or mix mashed, cooked 
salsify with milk, and add one or two beaten eggs ; 
add flour if necessary to make a stiff paste, and shape 
into small flat cakes. Fry brown in fat to cover. 

Salsify Saut^. — Prepare a bunch of salsify according 
to directions given for boiled salsify. Drain, cut into 
small pieces and saut6 in butter, with one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped mushrooms. Season with salt, pepper, 
and minced chives, parsley, and a few drops of vinegar. 

Salsify i la Poulette. — Prepare according to direc- 
tions given for boiled salsify, adding one table- 
spoonful each of salt and vinegar to the water. Cook 
until tender. Drain, serve with poulette sauce. 
Bechamel sauce may be used instead, or saucette 
cream mixed with melted butter. 

Savoy Cabbage. See under Cabbage. 
163 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 



SCORZONERA {Scorzonero hispanica. Composites). 

The culture of this vegetable is exactly the same 
as salsify; it has perhaps the advantage of being 
rather hardier than the latter, but it is not of such 
a fine flavour. Where one is grown the other is 
scarcely required, and we ourselves now only grow 
salsify. It might perhaps be used in Northern 
England if salsify does not do well. 

Scorzonera is a Spanish variety of salsify, and the 
recipes under the heading of Salsify apply equally 
to it. 



SEAKALE [Crambe maritima. Crucifera). 

This is a most valuable permanent crop, and in the 
opinion of some ranks equal with asparagus on the 
table. In addition its magnificent foliage makes it an 
object of beauty through the summer, and a plantation 
of seakale may well mark the transition of the flower 
garden to the vegetable ground. 

Seakale may be grown from seed, but it is more 
expeditious to obtain two-year-old plants from a 
nurseryman, or else early in March to propagate 
plants by means of root cuttings. By the latter 
method pieces of root four inches long are cut with 
a sharp knife. It is usual to cut the top end level, 
and the lower end slanting, to obviate the incon- 
venience of planting upside down. The root cuttings 
are then planted where they are to stand, and will 

164 



SEAKALE 

give a slight crop of kale the following spring, as the 
first, or flowering, shoots must be removed in any 
case. 

The ground can hardly be too deeply dug or richly 
prepared for this fine permanent crop. In March the 
plants should be put out either in rows three feet 
apart, the plants six inches distant in the rows, or else 
in clumps of five plants, a plant at each corner of 
a nine-inch square, and one in the centre ; the 
clumps should be thirty inches to two feet apart. 
By "doubling" them, that is, arranging the clumps 
W fashion, the rows thirty inches apart, and the 
clumps three feet in the rows, ground will be 
economised. These are the best arrangements for 
the small garden ; but they are in the nature of a 
compromise, as eighteen inches distance between 
the crowns will give much heavier individual heads 
of seakale. 

The after cultivation consists in keeping the ground 
clear of weeds, giving a mulch in summer, and occa- 
sional dressings of salt or nitrate in showery weather, 
say salt once, and nitrate three times in the summer, 
and salt again in November and nitrate early in the 
year, when the crowns are set to blanch. In the 
autumn the ground should be cleared up, and all 
rotten leaves removed. 

If it be desired to bring on seakale quickly, manure 
may be used to force it into growth. This method 
does not improve the flavour, but it is not such utter 
ruin as in the case of rhubarb. Boxes or pots are 
laid over the crowns to be forced, and hot manure 

165 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

heaped around and over to the depth of a good foot. 
But the cleanest and best way to blanch seakale is 
to cover the crowns with clean dry ash from the 
grates — not ash, be it understood, which has a care- 
less cook's admixture of all sorts of rotting fish bones 
and other filth. A large body of ashes will be 
required, so their accumulation must be set about 
a long time previously. At first the depth of ash must 
be slight, say six inches; then as the buds show signs 
of growth, it may be gradually increased to fifteen 
inches at least. Seakale grown in rows should be 
blanched in this way, or with a layer of ash six inches 
deep ; then when this is beginning to crack with the 
growing shoots, earth laid on after the manner of 
earthing up celery. Whatever the method pursued, 
seakale must be blanched in absolute darkness, or it 
will be bitter and worthless for the table. 

When the crop has been cut, a sprinkling of loose 
litter should be shaken over the stems, which should 
be cut level with the ground, in order to protect them 
from a too sudden acquaintance with our genial 
English spring. Conical, flower-bearing buds must 
be removed from the stocks, as the plants must not 
be allowed to flower. In May the shoots must be 
thinned, one or at the most two stout shoots left on 
each stem, all the rest rubbed out. This method will 
leave good fat buds in autumn, whence will come 
correspondingly stout growth to be cut for use next 
year. 



1 66 



SHALLOT 



DISHES. 



Boiled Seakale. — Boil in salted water and vinegar 
for twenty minutes to half an hour, drain, and arrange 
neatly, lengthwise, on a drainer ; pour over a good 
white sauce, and serve very hot. 

Another Method of boiling Seakale. — Soak for half an 
hour in cold water, and cook for twenty-five minutes 
in boiling water. Drain, press out the liquid, chop 
finely, and reheat. Season with salt and pepper, and 
pour over good melted butter. 

Cooked seakale can also be served as a salad. 
Cut it into short pieces, season with salt, pepper, oil, 
and vinegar, or lemon juice. Mix carefully. Dish up, 
garnish to taste, and serve. 

Creamed Seakale. — Tie some seakale up in bundles, 
and put them in boiling salted water ; boil till quite 
tender, about thirty minutes, drain well, take the 
string off. Put some slices of toast in a dish, arrange 
the seakale on them, and pour over a good Bechamel 
sauce, made with a little double cream. 

For other ways of cooking seakale, adapt those 
recipes dealing with celery and asparagus. 

SHALLOT {Allium Ascalonicum. Liliacea). 

Shallots enjoy a rich soil, somewhat similar to that 
given to onions ; they follow celery well, the old 
manure and well-broken-up ground being exactly 

what they like. They are propagated by division of 

167 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the offsets. Tfiese cloves, as they are usually called, 
are planted in rows nine inches to a foot apart, the 
cloves four inches asunder in the row. Any good 
day in February these may be planted, and they 
should not be too deeply buried. 

Keep the rows weeded with the Dutch hoe, and 
when the leaves wilt and give indications of ripening 
in July or August, pull the crop, let it dry for a couple 
of days, and store the bulbs for use in a dry place. 

Shallots may also be raised from seed sown in March. 

Shallots have a strong onion flavour, and are largely 
used for seasoning, and they make excellent pickle. 



SORREL {Rumex Acetosa. Polygonacece). 

Sow seed in spring, and thin out to six inches, or 
propagate by division of established plants in March 
or the beginning of April. 

These perennial plants last for several years, and 
the leaves should be gathered singly. There are 
several varieties, and probably the Broad-leaved 
French Sorrel is as good as any. Sorrel is not 
sufficiently appreciated in this country. A few leaves 
make an excellent addition to a spring salad. We 
find it better to strip the leaves from the mid-rib and 
use the fragments for salads, discarding the mid-rib. 

DISHES. 

Pur^e of Sorrel. — Pick over and wash the sorrel 
several times, add a good handful of chervil, squeeze 

i68 



SPINACH 

out any water, cook them for a moment in boiling 
water, take them out, and put them into cold water ; 
drain again, then mince them up ; put a piece of 
butter into a casserole with the sorrel, a good pinch 
of flour, salt, and pepper, pour over a little milk, 
and work in two or three eggs, well beaten, into the 
mixture little by little ; put it in a dish, and garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs. 

Stewed Sorrel. — After washing and cleaning some 
sorrel, boil till tender, then rub through a sieve, 
and put into a stewpan ; add two tablespoonfuls of 
B6chamel sauce, with a little salt and sugar, and 
stew for a few minutes with one ounce of fresh 
butter, and serve. 

Sorrel Salad. — Take the young leaves of sorrel, 
and after washing them, dry them, and treat them 
as other vegetables for salads. 

Sorrel and Vermicelli Soups. See Soups. 

SPINACH {Spinacia oleracea. Chenopodiacea). 

In the small garden, spinach is chiefly of value as a 
late spring crop, coming in between the late broccoli 
and the early peas, and it may be treated as a catch- 
crop, sown from mid-February onwards till late 
March between successive rows of peas, or in similar 
situations. Sown at the same time as the peas, it 
will be well out of their way before they are in pod, 
or even full blossom. 

For spring use, the round seeded variety is usually 
sown, but its incurable habit of bolting into flower 

169 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

in hot soil or season induces many good gardeners 
to grow the sturdier prickly seeded sort both for 
spring and winter use. The seed should go into 
shallow drills, and the plants be thinned to nine 
inches in the rows. Thin sowing is recommended. 

As a winter crop, prickly seeded spinach may be 
sown from mid-July to the end of August. The rows 
should be in the open, and fifteen inches apart, the 
plants thinned to six inches in the row. The earlier 
July sowings will give spinach during the autumn ; 
the later, early in the spring or late in winter. As 
a rule, unless there be special liking for this crop, 
the small garden will hardly accommodate it except 
to the exclusion of more profitable and worthy 
subjects. 

Spinach beet is a plant which will give many dishes 
of green stuff through the winter, if the gardener 
care to find room for it. Sown in April or March, 
where it is to stand, it should be in rows fifteen 
inches apart, the plants thinned to three inches. The 
larger leaves are gathered as required throughout 
winter and early spring, a succession of leaves 
coming on to replace those removed. Here, again, 
is a subject we scarce care to trouble to grow, but 
it has the merit of yielding well over a long period, 
and may come in usefully if the winter frosts have 
cut our brassicas about too cruelly. 

General Directions for Cooking Spinach. — Spinach 
is apt to be gritty, so that great care is needed in 
preparing it. The leaves should be lifted out of 
the water and piled in a colander; in this way 

170 



SPINACH 

the sand is left at the bottom of the bowl. Repeat 
the process in several waters. Spinach shrinks very 
much in cooking, so that its bulk when cooked is 
very small compared to what it was when raw. 

Spinach contains so much water that none should 
be used in cooking it. Take a gallon saucepan, and 
nearly fill it with well-washed spinach ; put it at the 
side of the range, and stir very frequently with a 
wooden spoon. Soon the leaves will shrink, and 
enough liquid will have flowed from them to cover 
the greens. Add a small teaspoonful of salt and a 
piece of soda the size of a pea. Put on the lid, and 
let it simmer slowly for half an hour. Drain and 
press well before serving. It may be returned to the 
pan with a piece of butter and a sprinkle of pepper 
and well shaken for a minute. 

Spinach Puff. — Chop some cooked spinach very 
fine, or rub it through a sieve, add a tablespoonful 
of butter melted, a little salt and pepper to taste, 
and to a pint of vegetable use a cupful of cream, 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, and the stiffly beaten 
whites of three eggs ; mix in the latter carefully after 
all the other ingredients. Turn into a buttered dish, 
bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve in the 
dish in which it is cooked. 

Creamy Spinach. — Cook the spinach, press it in a 
strainer, and then rub it through a wire sieve ; put it 
into a saucepan, with a small piece of butter, one table- 
spoonful of milk, or preferably cream, stir while warm- 
ing it up, add a little salt and pepper, and garnish with 
fried croutons. Poached eggs may be served with it. 

171 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Sweet Spinach. — Clean your spinach and wash it 
several times ; put in a good handful of chervil and 
a sprinkle of white pepper ; let them drain dry, cook 
them for a few minutes in boiling water ; take them out, 
and put them into cold water ; drain them again dry, 
and chop them finely, and simmer in a casserole with 
a good piece of butter for a quarter of an hour. Add 
a very little salt and grated nutmeg and a little sugar, 
moisten with cream, stir. Serve very hot on a dish 
with fried croutons and slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

Spinach Fritters. — Chop finely or pass through a 
sieve one pound of cooked spinach, season with salt 
and pepper, and add the yolk of one egg, and sufficient 
bread-crumbs to make the mixture stiff. Form into 
flat round cakes, dip into frying batter, and cook in 
boiling fat. Serve with a garnish of scrambled eggs, 
or poached eggs. 

Spinach Souffle. — (i) Cook some spinach, rub it 
through a sieve, and add two or three well-beaten 
eggs, and a small quantity of milk with butter and 
salt. Mix it thoroughly, put it in a well-buttered 
souffle dish, and bake for ten minutes. This makes 
a simple, yet tasty entree. 

(2) Mix a cupful of cooked chopped spinach with 
the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and stir over the fire 
until the egg is set. Cool, then fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of three eggs. Fill a buttered baking 
dish, or individual soufifl6 dishes, and bake for a 
quarter of an hour. Serve immediately. 

(3) Mix two tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked 
spinach with the beaten yolks of two eggs, a table- 

172 



TOMATO 

spoonful of melted butter, and salt and pepper to 
season. Cool, mix with two or three tablespoonfuls 
of cream and the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish and bake im- 
mediately. The cream may be omitted, and milk used 
instead. 

(4) Cook and chop a peck of spinach, add a well- 
beaten egg, a tablespoonful of butter, salt, sugar, and 
pepper to season. Cool, add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Mix thoroughly, and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs. Put in a buttered baking dish, 
sprinkle with sugar, cover for ten minutes, then un- 
cover for five minutes, and serve immediately. 

STACHYS TUBERIFERA. See Artichoke. 



TOMATO {Solanum Lycopersicutn. SolanacecB). 

The tomato, or love apple, is to be considered, for 
the small garden, mainly an outdoor subject. It is 
useless to attempt to grow it without glass in cold 
and backward districts, as it requires plenty of full 
sunshine to bring it to perfection. Even in such a 
district, however, a few plants put out by a south 
wall or fence may yield a good return ; it may also 
be fruited well, trained under the lights of a cold 
frame. 

It is important to have well-grown and forward 
plants of an early variety, ready to go out early in 
June. This is not difficult with the aid of a hot-bed 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and couple of frames ; better still, add to these re- 
quirements a cool house or glass-roofed tool-shed. 

Select then such a variety as Sutton's Earliest of 
All, and sow in pots or pans, early in March, in the 
hot-bed. Warmth and moisture will soon bring the 
young plants up, and as soon as they are in their 
second leaf, they must be potted off, into " sixty-four " 
size pots, with an inch of last year's hot-bed at the 
bottom of the pots, and a nice compost on top. The 
frame must be kept closed, or nearly so, until the 
plants have taken hold. It may be found well to 
spread a newspaper over the glass, to protect them 
from the effects of the full sun for a couple of days. 
Thereafter the ordinary frame management will suit 
them all right. In an astonishingly short time the 
pots will become full of roots, and late in April it 
will be necessary to give them a second shift. 
Without disturbing the roots, they must now go 
into four-inch pots at least. Again some good stuff 
must be put in the bottom of the pots, but the roots 
should not be placed directly upon it. They will 
scarcely feel that they have been moved if it be 
skilfully done, and they must be grown on with 
daily watering, as close to the glass as possible. 
A third move is advised, about the twentieth of May, 
into six-inch pots, and this time a slender stick must 
be placed to each plant, and tied with bast. At this 
time those plants for which room can be found in 
the greenhouse must go into the boxes they are to fruit 
in. These boxes should be about a foot deep, a good 
layer of old manure should be mixed in with the 

174 



TOMATO 

lower layer of soil, and the boxes two-thirds filled with 
nice compost. As the season advances, this leaves 
room for fresh earth to be added, with perhaps a 
touch of guano, thus feeding the plants from above, 
and giving them fresh soil into which they will root 
freely. 

At the time of the last repotting the plants will 
be some fifteen inches high, showing bud, and in 
many cases flower. They must still be kept warm o' 
nights, grown near the glass, and kept well watered. 
Many gardeners put them out at the end of May 
without this third repotting, but we are convinced 
that far less check, and far better results follow, if 
the plants are kept growing on, until the loth or 14th 
of June, when the nights have become warm and 
genial, and the plants have a bunch of fruit set. 

When planting time comes, each plant should go 
out alongside fence or wall, or along the paths, 
dodged in among the other crops. To those in the 
open, where wall or fence does not afford support, 
stout five-foot stakes must be provided. There must 
be no mistake about this ; the stakes are to be driven 
a good foot into the ground, as, if the tomatoes go 
on well, they will have to support many pounds' 
weight of fruit. The tomatoes must be watered for 
a week or so after planting out, and until rain has 
reheved the gardener from this duty, and the plants 
have settled in. 

As they grow the plants must be tied to the stakes, 
and the side shoots be rubbed out twice a week. 
The aim is to keep the plants to one stem carrying 

175 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

three good bunches of fruit. To facilitate watering 
in dry weather, the plants should have been set in 
little cup-shaped depressions in the ground. Be 
careful only to remove the axillary side shoots, and 
not the flowering bunches, which are not axillary to 
a leaf. This dis-budding is a pleasant enough job, 
except that the tomato juice stains the fingers a deep 
orange ; provide against this with gloves or abundant 
soap and water. 

At the beginning of August, when three good 
trusses of fruit are set on each plant, nip out the 
top of the leader, and do not allow the plants to grow 
any more or throw more flower. Force them to 
concentrate their attention upon perfecting the fruit 
already set. Remove with caution any leaves that 
overhang the fruit, and so intercept the full sunlight, 
but do not by any means strip the leaves. It is 
unnecessary to allow the fruit to completely ripen 
on the plants, but as soon as they show colour they 
may be gathered and laid out in dryness and cleanli- 
ness, under the lights of a frame or near the glass 
roof of the tool-shed. This will save the plants a 
certain effort, and will promote the interests of the 
fruit still coming towards maturity. When the 
shorter days of September come in, and the sun 
perceptibly loses his power, the remaining fruit may 
be gathered and hung up in bunches on the stalks 
on which it grew, to come to what ripeness it may. 
At any rate these bunches will provide good store 
of tomatoes to fry with the morning bacon far into 

October, 

176 



TOMATO 

If heat be available, seed sown in January and 
carried on in moderate heat will give fruit in May. 
The autumn crop may also be prolonged, but sun 
is needed to produce really ripe fruit, and it is 
questionable whether the amateur is well advised in 
striving to grow tomatoes after November has set in. 

DISHES. 

Broiled Tomatoes. — Cut the tomatoes in two, and 
leave the skins on. Place in a well-buttered frying 
pan, with the skin side down, dust with salt and 
pepper, and broil, without turning, over a moderate fire 
for ten minutes, or till tender. Lay them on a hot 
dish, and spread each piece over with melted butter. 
Or the tomatoes may be cut in thick slices, covered 
with olive oil, and then broiled, turning frequently. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. — Season with salt and pepper 
some ripe tomatoes, that have been skinned and sliced. 
Put a layer of fine bread-crumbs in the bottom of a 
buttered pudding dish, then put a layer of the sliced 
tomatoes ; sprinkle over them a little sugar and a few 
drops of onion juice, then a layer of bread-crumbs, 
and continue until the dish is full, having the last 
layer of bread-crumbs ; put small pieces of butter here 
and there on the top, and bake in a hot oven for 
twenty minutes. Serve hot in the same dish. 

Tomato Sandwiches. — (i) Cut slices of thin bread 
and butter, and spread them with tomato pulp, 
seasoning with a little mustard, pepper, and salt, put 
another slice of bread and butter on the top, press 

177 M 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the sandwich together, remove the crust, cut into 
neat fingers, and serve on a d'oyley, decorated with 
parsley. 

(2) Slices of skinned ripe tomatoes, seasoned with 
a little vinegar, salt, and pepper, introduced instead 
of tomato pulp, make very good sandwiches. 

Tomato Fritters. — (i) Cut peeled tomatoes into 
slices, season with pepper and salt. For the batter, 
beat up one egg, add a cupful of milk, a pinch of 
salt, one tablespoonful of olive oil, then sift in half 
a cupful of flour. Mix well till smooth and glossy. 
Allow to stand in a cool place for one hour ; then add 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. Dip the slices 
of tomato into the batter, and place them gently in 
a frying basket, and fry in smoking-hot fat to a golden 
colour. Drain on white paper, dish, and garnish 
with fried parsley. Serve hot. 

(2) Peel some fresh tomatoes — if they are very 
large, one for each person will be sufficient. Divide 
each tomato into thirds or quarters, and fry them 
slowly in butter, turning them as they brown. When 
nearly done, dust with salt and pepper, and sift a little 
flour over them — a trifle more than a heaped table- 
spoonful to four tomatoes. Finally, add a cupful of 
cream or rich milk, and simmer until the gravy 
thickens. Serve on slices of toasted bread. 

Baked Tomatoes stuffed with Macaroni. — This 
dish is prepared from left-over macaroni, which has 
been baked with cheese in a white sauce. Remove 
the pulp from five large smooth tomatoes, chop finely, 
and mix with one cupful of macaroni. Season 

178 



TOMATO 

well with salt and pepper. Fill the tomato cases, 
cover with buttered bread-crumbs and grated cheese, 
and bake until browned. 

Tomato Omelette. — One cupful of bread-crumbs, 
with milk enough to barely cover ; let them stand 
for half an hour. Brown a small onion and two 
cloves of garlic ; when done, add half a pint of canned 
tomatoes, cook until smooth, seasoning with salt, 
pepper, and cayenne. Put a good - sized lump of 
butter in a large frying pan when hot, pour in five 
or six eggs, well beaten, and the soaked bread-crumbs, 
well beaten together and seasoned with pepper and 
salt. Cook until set, sprinkle with grated cheese, lay 
the tomato pur6e on the omelette, fold, and put in a 
quick oven for a minute. Serve at once. 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes. — • Remove the insides 
from six tomatoes, mince, and add some chopped 
parsley, half a pint of grated nuts, two ounces of 
bread-crumbs, pepper and salt to taste, and one egg. 
Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, and bake for half 
an hour, first placing a small piece of butter on each 
tomato. 

Tomatoes k la Noisette (Mrs. B. C. Stephenson's 
Recipe), — Scald six ripe tomatoes in boiling water, 
skin them, and bake them in a buttered saut6 pan ; 
then pass them through a wire sieve ; chop two 
shallots up finely, and fry them in an ounce of butter ; 
add two ounces of peeled and chopped walnuts, a 
dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, an ounce of 
bread-crumbs, and an ounce of grated cheese, and the 
tomato pur^e. Stir this over a quick fire, season with 

179 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

salt, pepper, and cayenne, beat two eggs well into the 
mixture, and keep stirring until set. Spread this on 
a round of hot buttered toast, cover with grated 
cheese, and serve hot. 

Tomato Sauce. See Sauces. 

Tomato Soup. See Soups. 

Tomato Salads. See Salads. 

Tomatoes au Gratin. — Blanch the tomatoes, skin 
them, and place in a well - buttered fire-proof dish. 
Mix one cupful of tomato sauce with one dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder or paste and one heaped 
tablespoonful of red currant jelly. Boil it up for 
eight minutes, season the tomatoes, and pour the 
prepared sauce over them. Sprinkle with grated 
cheese and fine bread-crumbs and a little melted 
butter, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 
Serve in a ring of plain boiled rice. 

Panned Tomatoes. — To pan tomatoes, cut the 
tomatoes into halves, place them in a baking pan, skin 
side down, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, and 
put in the centre of each a tiny bit of butter. Bake 
slowly until soft. Take up, and add to the liquor in 
the pan one pint of milk. Moisten two level table- 
spoonfuls of flour with a little cold milk, add it to the 
pan, and stir constantly until boiling ; add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of pepper, and pour it 
over the tomatoes. Garnish with squares of toast, 
and serve. 

Tomato Rarebit. — Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
into the chafing dish, and, when melted, add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir until well blended ; 

i8o 



TOMATO 

then pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, 
three-fourths of a cupful of cream, and as soon as the 
mixture begins to thicken, add three-fourths of a 
cupful of stewed and strained tomatoes, mixed with 
one-eighth of a teaspoonful of soda ; then add two 
cupfuls of soft mild cheese, cut in small pieces, and 
two eggs, slightly beaten. Season to taste. 

Tomato Aspic Salad. — To one pint of strained 
tomatoes add one scant teaspoonful of salt, a few 
grains of cayenne pepper, half a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, and half an ounce of gelatine. Let it stand for 
half an hour, then bring to the boiling point ; put into 
small moulds to harden. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
a spoonful of mayonnaise. This will serve six persons. 

Creole Tomato Eggs. — Cook a can of tomatoes with 
one green pepper and a little salt until the tomatoes 
are reduced by half ; then pour the tomatoes on to 
five rounds of buttered toast, and place on each of 
these one poached egg, and keep hot. Meanwhile 
melt a heaped tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan 
over the fire, and allow it to get brown ; then add one 
tablespoonful of either lemon juice or vinegar. Let 
it just come to the boil, and pour it over the eggs, 
seasoning them with salt and pepper. 

Tomato Relish. — To one peck of tomatoes, rather 
finely chopped, four cupfuls of chopped celery, eight 
onions, chopped rather finely, eight small peppers, cut 
into thin slices, two pounds of brown sugar, one cupful 
of salt, two ounces of white mustard-seed, two quarts 
of vinegar, and one tablespoonful of grated horse- 
radish. Cook all together, and drain some of the 

i8i 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

juice from the tomatoes. Mix thoroughly, and boil 
for a quarter of an hour ; put in glass jars, and keep 
in a cool dark place. 



TURNIP (Brassica rapa. Cruciferm). 

For the small garden, this may be looked upon 
as one of the minor vegetables, for which there is 
no great demand. The smaller, quickly growing 
sorts are the varieties to select, as they occupy the 
ground for a shorter time, and are more tender and 
less coarse in flavour than the grosser kinds. 

A sowing may be made in April of such turnip as 
Early Six Weeks in a drill alongside a row of peas 
or broad beans. The seed must be thinly sown, and 
black cotton must be stretched above to provide 
against the attentions of the chaffinch. As soon as 
the plants are in the second leaf they must be singled, 
and later thinned to four inches in the row. 

The autumn sowing of maincrop turnips may be 
made about mid- July ; also a quick-growing kind may 
be sown again. The gardener must be prepared to 
repeat this sowing if the turnip fly play havoc with 
his crop during dry weather, and on this account 
it is not well to thin too drastically until the plants 
have really started to grow. A second sowing about 
the 12th of August will give a good chance of parti- 
ally grown plants to stand through the winter, and 
give in early spring a few dishes of that dehcious 
green, turnip-tops. 



182 



TURNIP 



TURNIP DISHES. 

To Boil Turnips {Garden, White).— Wd^sh thoroughly, 
put into clean water, peel, and throw into cold water. 
Put into a saucepan of boiling salted water for half 
an hour ; if tender, drain and dish them on a drainer, 
pour over white sauce, or B6chamel sauce. 

To Boil Turnips {Swedes, Field Grown).— Prepare 
as above, then cut in quarter and halve these, making 
the size uniform, boil in salted water for half an hour, 
drain, and mash them with a little butter and a very 
little hot milk, pepper, and salt. Pile up, and serve 
hot. 

Turnip Entremets. — Having peeled your turnips, 
fry them in butter, and when they are coloured, add 
a good tablespoonful of flour, stir well, and then add 
some stock, and a very little sugar ; cook them over 
a slow fire, dish them up, and cover them with the 
sauce. 

Boiled Turnip Tops. — Wash the greens thoroughly, 
and boil for half an hour in salted water with a 
tiny piece of soda, drain, and season with salt and 
pepper, add a little butter ; or, after draining, rub 
through a sieve and mix with a little brown sauce. 

Baked Turnips. — Peel, parboil, and cut into slices, 
put into a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with seasoned 
crumbs, moisten with milk or stock, and bake until 
brown. 

Cream Turnips. — Cut boiled turnips into dice, re- 
heat in a cream or white sauce, season with salt, 

183 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

pepper, and sugar, and serve on toast. Add a little 
grated nutmeg if desired. Brown sauce may be used 
instead of white. 

Turnip Charlotte.— Boil white turnips until tender, 
drain and rub them through a sieve. To one cupful 
of pulp add a quarter of a cupful of thick cream, 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to season, and the 
stiffly-beaten whites of three eggs. Turn into a 
buttered mould, and bake in a pan of hot water, until 
the centre is firm. Turn out and serve with white 
or Bechamel sauce. 

Turnip Croquettes.— Wash, peel, and slice turnips, 
boil them in salted water until very soft. Drain, press 
out the liquid, and wring dry in a cloth. Season with 
salt and pepper, mix to a smooth paste with the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Cool, shape into croquettes, 
dip in egg and then in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Turnips with Sweet Potatoes. — Boil and mash 
separately two yellow turnips and four large sweet 
potatoes, season with salt, pepper, and butter, mix, 
and beat until very light, put into a buttered baking 
dish with melted butter, and bake for twenty minutes. 

Glazed Turnips. — (i) Boil small peeled turnips in 
rich stock to cover, for half an hour, add a pinch 
of sugar, drain, reduce the stock by rapid boiling. 
Brown the turnips in the oven, basting with the stock, 
and serve very hot. 

(2) Peel small turnips, and boil for ten minutes 
in salted water to cover. Drain and saut6 in butter, 
sprinkle with sugar, add a little stock and cook until 
tender. Season with salt, pepper, and a little cinna- 

184 



VEGETABLE MARROW 

mon and nutmeg (if liked). Thicken the gravy with 
flour browned with butter. 

Pur^e of Turnips. — Peel, slice, and boil until soft 
in salted water, rub through a sieve, season with 
pepper and salt, and thicken with a tablespoonful 
of flour cooked in butter. Add half a cupful of hot 
cream, in which a bit of soda has been dissolved, 
bring to the boil, take from the fire and add a well 
beaten egg. Season with a little onion juice if de- 
sired. 

Stuffed Turnips. — Boil five turnips until soft. Drain, 
cut a slice from the top of each and scoop out the 
pulp. Mash the pulp smoothly, season with salt, 
pepper, and butter, sprinkle with flour, moisten with 
cream and add the well beaten yolk of an egg. Fill 
the shells, and put on the tops. Brush with beaten 
egg, and brown in the oven. 

Turnips au Gratin. — Prepare according to direc- 
tions given for Cauliflower au gratin. 

WITLOEF {see Chicory). 

VEGETABLE MARROW {Cucurbita ovifera. 
Ord. Cucurbitacece). 

In its early stages the cultivation of marrows pro- 
ceeds on the same lines as that of cucumbers. There 
are several varieties to select from, but the long green 
marrow is probably the best in flavour, and gives a 
large return. 

The seed should be sown in pots in March or April, 
185 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and must be grown in the hot-bed. The plants must 
be kept well watered and warm, and in May they 
should be put out on richly prepared ground under 
cold frames. Every precaution should be taken to 
protect them from late frosts. 

The vegetable marrow is hardier than the cucumber, 
and in June, plants not put out earlier may be planted 
in well-prepared ground in the open. Water must 
be given freely during dry weather, both to the plants 
in frames and to those outside. 

As the vines grow, the tops should be pinched out 
to induce them to break back. And this pinching 
out should be continued, the shoot being pinched 
above each set fruit. This results in short- jointed 
plants well crowded with fruit. The lights from the 
frames may be removed about the 14th of June. 

It is a mistake to let the fruit attain its full size 
before cutting. Small half-grown marrows are more 
tender and of far better flavour than large, hard fruit, 
which are only suitable for pickling. 

DISHES. 

Boiled Vegetable Marrow. — Peel some marrows, 
quarter them, and remove the seeds, put them in 
boiling salted water for one hour, or even longer, 
and boil them till tender, serve with white buttered 
sauce. It is not easy to over-cook a marrow, they 
are often under-cooked, and are then very indiges- 
tible. 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow.— Peel a medium-sized 
186 



VEGETABLE MARROW 

marrow, and remove the seeds, keeping the marrow 
whole. Prepare the following stuffing : 

Two or three chopped and fried onions, six ounces 
blanched nuts or almonds (these should be ground, 
and also fried with the onions), six ounces of bread- 
crumbs, pepper and salt, one chopped hard boiled 
egg, and one raw egg to bind the whole. Fill the 
marrow with this mixture, and steam for half an 
hour, to partly cook the marrow. Now place in a 
baking tin, cover with bread-crumbs, place some small 
pieces of butter on the top, and bake for another 
half hour, until the marrow is quite soft, and a nice 
rich brown. Serve with brown gravy. 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow No. 2. — Cut a marrow 
in half. Scoop out the pith and pips. Stuff with the 
following mixture : 

One cupful of bread-crumbs, any ground nuts, a 
little sage, an ounce of boiled onions well chopped, 
one ounce of nutter, seasoned and mixed with a well- 
beaten egg. Tie the two halves with string, and 
bake for forty minutes in a well greased tin. Baste 
frequently with nutter, and serve with brown gravy. 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow No. 3. — Having peeled 
the marrow, cut it in half, lengthways, and remove the 
seeds, fry some mushrooms lightly in butter, add 
bread-crumbs and seasoning to taste, fill the marrow 
with this force meat, tie the two halves together 
with a string, and steam them gently for about two 
hours over boiling water, and serve with white 
sauce. 

Vegetable Marrow Fillets. — Cut the marrow into 
187 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

fillets. Peel, cook, and allow to get quite cold. Dip 
into frying batter, and cook in boiling fat. Serve 
-with any cheese dish. 

Pur^e of Vegetable Marrow. — Take six small vege- 
table marrows, and peel, cut in slices and put in a 
stewpan, with two ounces of butter. Set over a 
quick fire for half an hour, stirring constantly. Add 
two and a half pints of stock, season with pepper 
and salt, and boil for twenty minutes. Pass through 
a sieve, return to the saucepan, add three tablespoon- 
fuls of cream. Boil for a few minutes, and serve 
with croutons. 

Mashed Vegetable Marrow. — After boiling the 
marrows in salted water, rub them through a fine 
sieve, pour the puree into a stewpan, in which there 
is a little melted butter, add a little cream and a little 
pepper, stir it over the fire for five or six minutes, 
dredging in a little flour to thicken it slightly. It 
takes half an hour to cook. 

Vegetable Marrow with Cheese. — Peel some green 
marrows, and cut them in quarters (after taking out 
the seeds), put them in a sautd pan, with an ounce of 
butter, pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, put the 
pan on the fire for a quarter of an hour, shaking it 
from time to time, pour a little cream over them, and 
a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, put the 
marrow into an oblong dish, cover with bread-crumbs 
and grated Parmesan cheese, put it for a few minutes 
into a hot oven, and serve with piquant sauce. 



i88 



SALAD PLANTS 

SALAD PLANTS— BRITISH AND CONTINENTAL. 

By W. F. Giles {of Messrs. Sutton & Sons, Reading). 

Salads just now are recommended by the medical 
profession, besides being a popular dish, and so I 
cannot do better than give Mr. Giles's list of plants 
for this purpose, though practically nearly every 
vegetable grown can be used for cooked or uncooked 
salads, the composition of which depends on the taste 
of the consumer. 

Australian or Golden Cress. — Belongs to the same 
class as the garden cress, but the leaves are broad 
and almost yellow in colour, and is cultivated in 
exactly the same way. 

Belle Isle or American Land Cress. — It resembles 
somewhat the water cress ; in flavour, however, it is 
more pungent, but it is a useful plant as a component 
of salads. 

Cabbage Lettuce. — Often seen in many gardens in 
the spring. 

Celeriac — Turnip-rooted Celery. — Is not much in 
request in this country, although in France and 
America it is largely grown. It is chiefly used for 
soup flavouring and served cooked, although it can 
of course be included in salad. There are white, 
golden, and green forms. 

Chives — Chenopodium Amaranticolor. — This is a 

plant which has only recently been heard of in 

' Pngland. It grows to a height of five or six feet, and 

189 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

produces a large quantity of succulent leaves, which 
are green in colour but marked with purple. In 
habit of growth it resembles the Orache or mountain 
spinach, but continues in use for a longer period. 
The seed can be sown in pots in the spring and 
transplanted, and the plants will continue to bear 
young leaves all through the summer and well into 
the autumn. A little of it can be added to the salad 
bowl, but it should be used sparingly. 

Lettuce. — One of the most useful salad plants. 

Mercury or Good King Henry. — Although usually 
cooked like spinach, it can be eaten in a mixed salad. 

Orache or Mountain Spinach, of which there are the 
white and red varieties. — The leaves, which are large, 
can be used either boiled as spinach, or mixed with 
other ingredients as a salad. 

Pimpinella or Salad Burnet. — Burnet is an old- 
fashioned herb, and is called by the French and 
Italians " Pimpinella." In Italy it is so highly prized 
that they have a proverb which says : 

" That salad is neither good or fair, 
If Pimpinella be not there." 

It has a very distinct flavour, and is quite easily 
grown. The plant is perennial, very hardy, and will 
grow almost anywhere. It will, in fact, continue 
green during the greater part of the year, and may 
be used in the winter when little other salad is to be 
had. Seed is usually sown in spring and summer, 
and the leaves, which are produced in great abund- 
ance, are tender, and used as salad. 

190 



SALAD PLANTS 

Poir^e, Swiss Chard, or Leaf Beet. — I have now 
enumerated most of the cultivated plants which are 
used for salad purposes either in this country or on 
the Continent, but still the list is not complete. 
There are various wild ones which are sometimes 
used ; in fact it is said that the poorer French and 
Italians gather almost anything green and tender and 
use them as salads. Such things as the tops of 
nettles, the leaves of the wood sorrel, sweet cicely, 
and of the cuckooflower or ladies' smock, of scurvy 
grass, nasturtiums, and of salad rocket or wild 
cress, besides shoots of hops, of vines, and asparagus, 
are all used to a greater or lesser extent in the great 
salad-eating countries. In addition, the foliage of 
salsify, tansy, borage, and caraway, the shoots of 
sage, and the leaves of balm, and even the pods of 
young peas, are sometimes brought into use ; in fact, 
there almost seems no end to the supply of tender 
material which can be eaten dressed with salt, vinegar, 
and oil, as a good salad should be. 

The great art of preparing a salad from these lesser- 
known plants is to so judiciously mix them that the 
taste of one may not overpower the remainder. The 
more popular subjects, such as lettuce or endive, are 
used as a basis, and with the addition of a little of one 
or more of the other plants I have mentioned, an 
agreeable mixture may be obtained to suit all palates. 
One special point, however, which is often overlooked 
in this country, is the fact that a salad should always 
be served freshly made. It is a common experience 
in Continental hotels or restaurants to see the waiter 

191 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

mixing the oil and vinegar and adding them to the 
salad immediately before placing it on the table. 
There are one or two points which are not seen to 
in this country. First, supposing the salad is to have 
lettuce for the foundation. The leaves should be torn, 
and not cut. If not very dirty they are simply wiped, 
but should it be necessary to wash them, they must be 
afterwards drained and tossed lightly on a soft cloth 
to get rid of every drop of water. In this country 
salading is often put to soak, thus making the leaves 
sodden, and being imperfectly dried, a good deal of 
the water goes into the salad bowl, which, according 
to the Continental idea, immediately spoils the mix- 
ture. Next the leaves are selected and put into the 
salad bowl whole, and not shredded up, as is usually 
done here. No steel knife should be allowed to touch 
them. They should then be turned about with a 
wooden fork whilst being sprinkled with good salad 
oil. Only sufficient oil should be added to moisten 
every leaf well. Vinegar must be added in very small 
quantities, the object being to give merely an appetis- 
ing flavour, and not to make an acid mixture. The 
thing to avoid is too much dressing ; if any liquid 
stands at the bottom of the bowl, it will cause the 
leaves to become sodden and discoloured. Any 
additional flavouring required can be obtained by 
adding to the lettuce small quantities of such things 
as finely chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, burnet, 
shallot, or almost any of the plants I have referred 
to, and a little salt and pepper to taste completes the 

salad. 

192 



SALAD PLANTS 

Purslane— Tarragon— Curled Chervil.— Known as 
a herb rather than a salad plant, but is useful for the 
latter purpose. 

Radishes — Winter Radishes — Tomatoes — Cucum- 
bers— Celery— Beet— Endive— Onions— Mustard and 
Cress — Watercress— Chicory (or Barbe de capucin) — 
Witloef— Blanched Dandelion — Finnochio (or Florence 
Fennel) — Corn Salad or Mache — Rampion (rampions 
are eaten raw like radishes, or boiled and cut up into 
salads). 

SALAD DISHES. 

Canadian Potato Salad. — Slice some cold boiled 
potatoes, add a few almonds blanched and quartered, 
and a very small quantity of chopped onions. Pour 
over this any good salad dressing, and garnish with 
chopped parsley, beetroot, and slices of lemon. 

Celery and Nut Salad. — Take two heads of celery, 
salad dressing (two parts of oil and one of vinegar, 
salt and pepper), eighteen to twenty walnuts, one 
tablespoonful of cream, mayonnaise dressing, and 
paprika pepper. 

Trim and wash the celery clean, cut into two- 
inch slices, and shred finely, or if preferred, cut 
into dice. Put the cut celery into a bowl, and 
pour over enough salad dressing to season it well. 
Cover over, and let it stand for one or two hours. 
Shell and skin the walnuts ; cut them into shreds, or 
julienne strips. Now add the cream and mayonnaise 
dressing to the celery. Mix the walnuts with this, and 

193 N 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

dress neatly in a salad bowl. Sprinkle a little paprika 
over the surface, garnish to taste, and serve. 

Cheese Salad. — For a small luncheon dish, cheese 
salad can be quickly made by putting thinly sliced 
or grated cheese in the middle of a dish, surrounding 
it with lettuce, endive, or cress, and covering all with 
a good salad dressing. — Helpful Hints, by Mrs. C. W. 
Earle. 

Cherry and Banana Salad. — Take equal portions of 
bananas and double that quantity of strawberries. 
Mix a pint of strawberries when hulled with a tea- 
cupful of caster sugar, mash them well. Pick the 
cherries and stone them with a silver knife, slice 
the bananas, arrange them over the mashed straw- 
berries and sprinkle with sugar. Let all stand together 
for an hour on ice if convenient. 

Cherry and Strawberry Salad. — Stone half a pound 
of cherries and put them in a salad bowl with two 
ounces of caster sugar over them, put the same quantity 
of hulled strawberries over them, and another two 
ounces of sugar ; squeeze the juice of half a lemon 
over all. Stand on ice for an hour before serving. 

Cherry Salad. — Stone a quarter of a pound of 
cherries with a pointed silver knife, as steel would 
spoil their colour. Arrange crisp lettuce leaves, 
lightly turn with the fingers in a salad bowl, keeping 
the heart of the lettuce for the centre, where it will 
stand up with a cherry in the middle. Place the 
cherries at regular intervals among the leaves, add 
a few quarters of peeled tomatoes, pour over a good 
mayonnaise dressing, and serve at once. 

194 



SALAD PLANTS 

Cleopatra Salad. — Take any cooked vegetables. 
Lima beans, corn, peas, beetroot, being especially 
eligible ; have all the ingredients very cold. Cut 
into neat pieces, and dish on lettuce leaves, either 
the crimped or brown edge being decorative. Serve 
with a French dressing. 

Cleveland. Salad. — Four cupfuls of boiling water, 
three lemons, one ounce of gelatine, four cucumbers, 
one quarter of a can of red peppers, salt to taste, and 
paprika as desired. 

Make a hot and sweet lemonade ; add a pinch of 
salt and paprika. Dissolve the gelatine in a cupful of 
water. When it is dissolved mix it with the lemonade. 
Slice the cucumbers very thin, and add the peppers. 
Put both in a large mould, and pour the lemon 
gelatine over all. Set in the refrigerator overnight. 
Serve with mayonnaise on a bed of lettuce. 

Clover-leaf Salad. — Cook one cupful of English 
walnut meat for ten minutes, with a sliced onion, 
three peppercorns, and a blade of mace, in slightly 
salted water. Drain and pour cold water through, 
then take off the thin skin. Cut enough celery into 
thin crossway slices to fill one cup, using the crisp 
white stalk. Mix the celery and nuts, and put a 
spoonful into the centre of three crisp lettuce leaves, 
put a spoonful of Mayonnaise on the top, and serve. 

Cold Potato Salad. — Cut four cold steamed 
potatoes into slices. Shred finely the tender parts 
of some celery. Chop very finely four sprigs of parsley 
and shallot ; mix, and place in the salad bowl. 
Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and serve with dressing. 

195 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Cranberry and Nut Salad. — Pick over and wash one 
pint of cranberries, and cook them with one cupful 
of sugar and one cupful of water till tender ; remove 
from the fire ; press the juice through the sieve ; soften 
one tablespoonful of leaf gelatine in one-fourth of 
a cupful of cold water, add the hot cranberry juice, 
and stir until the gelatine is dissolved. Pour a layer 
into a dish wet with cold water ; add a layer of diced 
celery and chopped nut meats as soon as the jelly 
becomes firm enough to hold them, repeat, having the 
last layer of jelly. When cold, cut in squares, and 
serve with mayonnaise, garnishingwith sprigs of parsley 
or with white celery tops. — Pictorial Review, 

Cucumber Salad. — One cucumber, half a table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, vinegar, salad 
oil, salt and pepper. 

Peel the cucumber finely, cut it into very thin 
slices, and place them in a salad bowl or dish. Mix 
two parts of salad oil with one part of vinegar, add 
the parsley, with salt and pepper to taste. Stir well, 
and pour over the cucumber. 

Egg Salad. — Boil six eggs for twelve minutes, put 
them in cold water at once to cool, then shell 
them and chop finely. Add two small boiled 
potatoes chopped equally fine, mix and sprinkle with 
Worcestershire sauce, toss them so that the sauce 
will get all through the mixture. Wash a head of 
lettuce, and arrange a few crisp leaves on separate 
plates. Divide the chopped mixture into six parts, 
and place them in the centre of separate plates. 
Make the French dressing by mixing six tablespoon- 

196 



SALAD PLANTS 

fuls of olive oil, three of vinegar, one saltspoonful 
of salt, and half a saltspoonful pepper, and serve 
with rye-bread sandwiches. 

Green apples, uncooked, cut into thin slices may 
be served with a leaf or two of lettuce, or as a sub- 
stitute for lettuce. They contain a large proportion 
of potash salts, and make a palatable salad. 

Endive Salad. — Endive, cress, shredded celery, 
boiled beetroot, and salad dressing. Separate the 
endive into tufts. Toss these in the salad dressing, 
pile them high in a salad bowl, and garnish with 
celery, cress, and beetroot. 

Everyman's Salad. — Thoroughly wash and pick 
over the tender leaves of young spinach, dandelion, 
sorrel, nasturtium, wild thyme, oxalis, shepherd's 
purse, &c., chop or shred ; mix in a bowl with a 
dressing made by whisking up a little olive oil with 
the fresh juice of oranges, lemons, limes, or grape 
fruit ; add a little chopped celery ; decorate with 
flowers of nasturtium. To give proteid value, add 
flaked walnuts, or ground hazelnuts, or home-made 
curd cheese. 

Florida Salad. — Cut slices from the stem ends of 
green peppers, and remove the seeds. Refill with 
grape-fruit, peeled and cut into cubes ; add the ten- 
derest stalks of celery cut into small pieces, and finely 
chopped nut meats, allowing twice as much grape- 
fruit as celery and one-third as many nut meats as 
grape-fruit. Arrange in nests of endive, and serve 
with mayonnaise dressing. — Buffalo Commercial. 

French Salad. — (i) Put the tender leaves of lettuce 
197 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

into cold water and wash them carefully, wipe them 
dry, and stand them in a circle in a salad bowl. 
Sprinkle with half a teaspoonful of tarragon, the same 
of chervil, of parsley, and of chives, and pour the 
following sauce over them : 

Mix in a cup, a tablespoonful of pure olive oil, one 
very small teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of 
pepper, and stir well. Add tyio more tablespoonfuls 
of oil, and one of vinegar ; if liked, add two drops of 
onion juice. The salad must not be mixed until 
wanted ; it can be garnished with small radishes, or 
nasturtium flowers. 

(2) Take equal parts of lettuce, shred celery, water- 
cress, small salad, beetroot, and spring radishes. 
Thoroughly wash them for a few minutes, and when 
drained in a cloth gather up the four corners into the 
right hand, and shake out all the water. Next, put 
the salad in a bowl, season with equal proportions of 
oil and vinegar, two or three chopped green onions, 
pepper and salt ; mix and serve. 

(3) Cut two or three ripe tomatoes in slices, break 
in small pieces three heads of lettuce, and dish them 
up, in a circular row, in a salad bowl or dish ; fill the 
centre with either small Windsor beans, French beans, 
garbangas or Spanish peas, pickled button onions, 
large green peas, or haricot beans ; all or any of 
these, to suit the convenience and taste, should be 
gently mixed with some mayonnaise sauce. 

Frozen Salad (Tomatoes). — Cook tomatoes in just 
enough water to cover the bottom of a pan, then 
press the vegetables through a sieve ; add to the hot 

198 



SALAD PLANTS 

pulp a little extract of onion or grated onion, half a 
teaspoonful of minced parsley, a teaspoonful of butter 
and celery-salt, and paprika to taste ; cool, then 
freeze as for ice-cream. Add a cupful of whipped 
cream to the mixture, then continue freezing. Spoon 
into lettuce cups, turning a tablespoonful of French 
dressing over each service. On each dish place 
wafers, and a ball of cheese rolled in salted nuts. 

Fruit Salad. — Half a tin of pine-apple chunks, four 
oranges, four bananas, the rind of two lemons, 
the juice of one small one, some crystallised cherries, 
almonds, and desiccated cocoanut. Cut up all the 
fruit into small dice, add the rind and juice of the 
lemon and chopped almonds, and three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, or more ; allow this to stand for an 
hour or two, for the flavours to amalgamate. Before 
serving, sprinkle over it the cocoanut, and garnish 
with cherries, and discard the lemon peal. 

N.B. — Any sort of fruit that is in season may be 
used, but tinned pine-apple always improves this 
salad. — Dr. JOSIAH Oldfield, Fruitarian Diet 
Recipes. 

Green Salad.— Take two heads of lettuce, one 
pennyworth of cress, half a cucumber (finely sliced), 
one quarter of a Spanish onion (sliced), two hard- 
boiled eggs (chopped or sliced), vinegar, salt, pepper, 
sugar, salad dressing as recipe mentioned below. 
Wash, dry, and cut up lettuce and cress, add 
onion, and mix all thoroughly, then add seasoning ; 
pour a little dressing at the bottom of the dish, and 
pile the salad high up in the centre ; garnish with 

199 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the sliced egg and sliced cucumber, then pour the 
dressing over. 

Hot Potato Salad. — Cut boiled potatoes in very 
thin slices. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with 
potatoes, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle with 
finely chopped celery, then with finely chopped 
parsley. Mix four tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, 
and four tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Add a slice 
of lemon cut one-third of an inch thick. Bring to 
the boiling point, pour over the potatoes, cover, 
and let it stand in a moderate oven till thoroughly 
heated. If possible, serve in the same dish in 
which the salad is heated. 

Lettuce Salad. — Use only the tender leaves ; wash 
well in cold water, wipe them dry, then break with 
the fingers into small pieces. Take two or three 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs beaten up with one table- 
spoonful of pure olive oil, salt and pepper to taste. 
Two more tablespoonfuls of oil must be added 
gradually, and one of white wine vinegar. Mix well, 
and garnish the salad bowl with nasturtium flowers. 

Lettuce Salad (2). — Take the hearts of two lettuces, 
wash well, and dry in a cloth. Place in a salad bowl 
with two hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters ; salt and 
pepper to taste. Pour over two tablespoonfuls of oil 
and one of vinegar, mix well. The vinegar must 
never be put over the lettuce until it is wanted. 
It will spoil the salad if left standing, before it is 
used. 

Mexican Salad. — Chop finely the meat of one 
dozen English walnuts. Wash, and place lettuce 

200 



SALAD PLANTS 

leaves round the salad bowl, and over these in the 
bottom of the bowl arrange two peeled bananas cut 
into thin slices. Mix the chopped walnuts with 
mayonnaise dressing, and spread over the bananas 
with a few bits of the half leaves of lettuce. Make 
another layer of bananas and dressing. Serve a 
spoonful of the salad on two nice leaves of lettuce ; 
put a dash of paprika over the whole. 

Mixed Salad. — Take one small cooked cauliflower, 
one cooked beetroot, one small cucumber, two or 
three firm cooked potatoes, two ripe tomatoes, one 
crisp lettuce, half a pint mayonnaise sauce or salad 
dressing. Divide the cauliflower into small sprays, 
cut the beetroot and potatoes into fine strips, slice the 
cucumber and tomatoes. Place all these ingredients 
in layers in a salad bowl, piling somewhat high in the 
centre, and season each layer with salt and pepper. 
Pour over the salad dressing, and garnish with a 
border of lettuce previously well washed and dried. 

Neufchatel Cheese Salad. — Line a bowl with lettuce, 
and if you like the flavour of onion rub each leaf with a 
cut onion ; put the cheese through a fruit-press or wire- 
strainer over the lettuce. When ready to serve, pour 
over one half cup of French dressing. If you have 
a few pieces of red beet, it is very attractive to gar- 
nish the edge of the dish with beets. This makes a 
very tasty salad. — Philadelphia, North American. 

Normandy Salad Stew gently in their own liquor 

a small can of French peas. Season with a little salt 
and pepper, and add a pinch of sugar. When the peas 
have absorbed all the liquor allow them to cool. Chop 

201 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

half a pound of English walnuts, and mix with the 
peas. Pour over them half a cup of mayonnaise. 
Serve with lettuce. 

Orange and Lettuce Salad.— Two oranges peeled 
and freed from pith and pips and sliced in rounds to 
every three heads of well-washed lettuce (the latter 
should be torn, not cut into pieces of suitable size) ; 
allow half a small teaspoonful of finely minced shallot 
for every three heads of lettuce, and add a dressing 
composed of two tablespoonfuls of salad oil to one of 
tarragon or chilli vinegar ; then add pepper and salt 
to taste, and serve. 

Russian Orange and Cucumber Salad.— Allow a 
thinly sliced orange to each large cucumber, slice 
the latter ; then mix, and use the dressing indicated 
in the foregoing recipe. 

Orange and Pear Salad. — Take six sweet oranges 
and six pears, peel the oranges, free them from pith, 
quarter them, take out the pips without wasting the 
juice, and reserve any juice which has escaped ; place 
them in a deep bowl ; peel the pears thinly, cut each 
pear into six lengthwise pieces, core them, add them 
to the oranges ; add the orange juice and a small 
sherry glassful of brandy, and leave in a cool place 
for an hour ; then pour over them the contents of 
a sixpenny jar of orange syrup ; cover the whole with 
whipped cream, but do not sweeten it ; sprinkle the 
top thickly with chopped blanched almonds and 
pistachio-nuts, and serve at once. When pears are 
not to hand, grapes, or very ripe apples make a good 
substitute, but pears undoubtedly give the best result. 

202 



SALAD PLANTS 

When not to be served immediately this salad should 
be placed upon ice, or, failing this, stand it in a bowl 
of cold water until it is required. 

Picnic Salad. — Another popular combination for 
salads consists of oranges and bananas, apples and 
celery, cut in slices and dressed. 

Pilgrim Salad.— Peel and cut tomatoes in half-inch 
slices, cut out rounds from the centre of each with 
a sharp-pointed knife, and insert four or five cooked 
asparagus tips. Lay them on crisp lettuce leaves. 
Cut the centres of the tomatoes into cubes, and put 
these with several stoned olives on one side of each 
plate. Put half a cupful of olive oil into a pitcher, 
the strained juice of half a lemon, the strained juice 
of half an orange, one teaspoonful of grated onion 
pulp, a quarter of a teaspoonful of paprika, one 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of mustard, and one teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley. Shake until thick and creamy, 
and pour over the portions of salad. 

Pine-apple and Grape-fruit Salad.— Mix a cupful of 
chopped pine-apple with a shredded grape-fruit, and 
half a cupful of nuts blanched and chopped, or celery. 
Add some preserved cherries, and serve on lettuce, 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

Plum Salad. — Pare and stone some small plums, 
and fill the cavity in each with chopped nuts ; arrange 
on a serving dish in circles of sliced bananas and 
on the top of each plum, and on each of the banana 
slices put a little whipped egg dressing. Serve im- 
mediately with a garnish of crisp cress. 

203 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Salad k la Monte Carlo. — Four ripe firm tomatoes, 
two truffles, half a pint of cooked asparagus points, 
six small artichoke bottoms cooked, two lettuces, 
mayonnaise dressing, krona pepper. Blanch and 
peel the tomatoes, and cut them into slices ; cut the 
truffles into thin slices, and the artichoke bottoms into 
shreds ; wash and trim the lettuces ; mix all in- 
gredients together in a basin, season with pepper and 
salt, and a very little vinegar and oil ; dress the whole 
in a pyramidal form on a deep dish, or in a shallow 
salad bowl ; garnish round the base with groups of 
asparagus points. Pour a little mayonnaise sauce 
seasoned with krona pepper over the whole, and 
serve a sauce-boat of this dressing with the salad. 

Salad h la Princesse. — Make with green vegetables 
such as peas, asparagus tops, French beans, capers, 
and gherkins. The vegetables are mixed and seasoned 
with salt, pepper, oil, tarragon vinegar and chopped 
chervil, and served with a border of apple jelly, or 
of hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. It can also 
be served in a salad bowl without any garnish. — 
C. Herman Seen, How to Cook Vegetables. 

Salad Dressing. — Put the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs into a basin, add one teaspoonful of caster 
sugar, one teaspoonful of mustard, one quarter of a 
teaspoonful of salt and pepper ; mix well, and add 
(slowly stirring all the time) one quarter of a pint 
of cream and one tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Salads that Cost Nothing, made of dandelions, 
sorrel, and nettles. The latter are very pleasant to 
the taste, and if the young shoots are steamed or 

204 



SALAD PLANTS 

boiled, can hardly be distinguished from spinach, 
also they have valuable medicinal qualities. 

Then the young shoots of brambles form another 
constituent for a salad, as well as their fruit for jams 
and jellies, and with a small outlay of one penny and 
a little trouble you can grow a crop of nasturtiums. 
Not only will the flowers be useful for decorating 
your table, but you have an excellent vegetable. 
Nasturtium leaves will add a piquancy to your 
summer salads, and in the autumn you can pick 
some of the seeds and make a tasty pickle with them. 
Put them in salt and water for twenty-four hours, 
dry them, place them in a bottle, boil a teaspoonful 
of peppercorns in half a pint of vinegar, strain, and 
when cold pour on to the seeds and seal the bottle. 
The rest of the seeds you can leave to ripen in order 
to provide yourself with next year's crop. 

A salad bag is a good thing to keep lettuce crisp 
and fresh. Remove the outer leaves, spread the inner 
leaves and wash carefully, and hang to drip dry in 
a square of cheese-cloth or white mosquito netting 
knotted together by its four corners. Suspend this 
from its own nail above a sink, or in the lower part 
of the refrigerator if preferred, though this adds little 
if anything to the crispness of the lettuce dried in 
a bag. 

Sheldon Salad. — One can of pine -apple, four oranges, 
two bananas, half a pound of Malaga grapes, and a 
quarter of a pound of candied cherries. Cut the pine- 
apples into small squares, seed the oranges, and cut 

them up finely, seed the grapes, and cut them and 

205 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the cherries in halves ; slice the bananas very thin. 
Serve on lettuce leaves, and pour over the following 
sauce — the juice of the pineapple, one cup of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of cornflour, one cup of walnuts 
cut up finely, and a cup and a half of water. Mix 
the cornflour with a little of the water, and add 
the pineapple juice, sugar, and the remainder of the 
water. Boil until thick, and after it is cold add the 
nuts and glac6 cherries. This salad may be put 
together and frozen. 

Stuffed Prunes, with Lettuce. — Let choice prunes 
soak overnight in cold water. Steam until tender. 
Slit down one side, and remove the stone from each ; 
grate cheese ; add a little finely chopped red pepper 
or a dash of paprika, and enough mayonnaise dressing 
to mix the cheese to a soft smooth consistency. Fill 
the open space in the centre of each prune with the 
cheese mixture. Serve with toasted crackers and 
lettuce salad, over which French dressing has been 
poured. 

Tomato Salad. — Cut six good ripe tomatoes into 
rather thick slices, place them in a salad bowl with 
finely chopped parsley, and chervil sprinkled over 
them ; put two saltspoonfuls of salt into a tablespoon, 
cover well over with white pepper, pour in sufficient 
tarragon vinegar, to fill the spoon. Stir carefully with 
the fork until the salt and pepper are dissolved, and 
sprinkle carefully over the tomatoes ; then add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of the best salad oil. 

Welsh Onion Salad. — Peel and slice two large 
Welsh onions, and two cucumbers ; put them on ice 

206 



MISCELLANEOUS SAUCES 

for twenty minutes, then drain and dry them on a 
cloth. Arrange the slices of onion and cucumber 
alternately on a dish, pour some mayonnaise over 
them, and serve. 

Cucumbers should, if possible, always be kept on 
ice, and never be put into salted water. 

Winter Salad. — Cut up three boiled potatoes, one 
head of celery, one boiled beetroot, add a few leaves 
of blanched chicory and one spoonful of chopped 
parsley. Prepare the following sauce and pour over 
it, mix well before serving : — 

Take four tablespoonfuls of cream, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a little pepper, one teaspoonful 
of salt ; stir all these ingredients well, and pour over 
the salad. The vinegar must be added drop by drop, 
or it will curdle the cream. 



MISCELLANEOUS SAUCES. 

A Good White Sauce for serving over Vegetables. — 
Take one ounce of butter, two ounces of flour, a 
little pepper and salt, half a pint of milk, or milk mixed 
with water (not so good). 

Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the 
flour and the seasoning, then the liquid, stirring care- 
fully all the time, allow it to boil for three minutes 
to thoroughly cook the flour ; it should bubble with 
a thick sound, and break away from the side of the 
pan. When properly cooked this sauce will be as 
thick as rich cream, and will cling to the spoon. 

Time, ten minutes. 

207 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

A little lemon juice may be added, if it is wanted 
to be slightly acid, or finely chopped parsley may be 
added, for serving with broad beans. 

Sauce Bechamel Maigre. — Put in a small saucepan 
one pint of water and three eschalots, a carrot cut 
in slices, a little grated nutmeg, four whole pepper- 
corns, bruised, a bunch of herbs, and a few mush- 
rooms. Let them simmer for an hour or more. Put 
through a sieve. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream and one of butter, 
add a pint of boiling milk, put into a casserole, and 
stir carefully, adding the stock, previously prepared, 
and stirring all the time. 

It may be kept hot in a bain-marie. 

Note. — If there be no bain-marie, put the preparation 
in a jam-pot inside a saucepan full of boiling water. 

Caper Sauce. — Take a tablespoonful of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, one cup and a half of 
hot water, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and half a cupful of capers. Melt the butter, stir in 
the flour, and pour on the hot water gradually and 
season. Boil five minutes, and add the capers last 
of all. 

Celery Sauce. — Wash the white part only of a head 

of celery, cut it up into rather large pieces ; put it into 

a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover it, and 

simmer for thirty minutes, stir it occasionally, rub 

through a sieve ; add three-quarters of a pint of 

melted butter, with pepper and salt ; stir until it boils, 

and serve. Time, about an hour. 

208 



MISCELLANEOUS SAUCES 

Cold Horse-radish Sauce. — Grate (but not scrape) 
the horse-radish ; place it in a pickle bottle, with salt, 
pepper, and vinegar, and some thick cream, and a 
teaspoonful of sugar. 

Cranberry Cream. — One pint of cream, one pound 
of sugar, one pint of water. Pick one pound of cran- 
berries carefully, put them into a stewpan with the 
water and sugar, and cook slowly for about one hour 
until reduced nearly to a pulp. Stir from time to time 
during the process, and when sufficiently cooked turn 
into a dish to cool. Whip up the cream and mix with 
it, or heap on the top. 

Green Sauce for Summer. — Chop up a few fine 
leaves of purslane, parsley, chive tops, a good deal of 
tarragon and borage. Prepare a white sauce which 
has been passed through a fine sieve ; put the herbs in, 
and mix just before serving. It ought to look quite 
green when served. 

(Both are recipes from Mrs. C. W. Earle and Mrs. 
H, Bryan, Diet Difficulties^ 

Hammerfield Sauce (Lord Ronald Sutherland 
Gower's Recipe). — Melt one dessertspoonful of red- 
currant jelly in a basin, and add a tablespoon- 
ful of grated horse-radish, a little dry mustard, and 
the juice and the grated rind of one orange. Mix 
together thoroughly. If too hot, put less mustard. 

HoUandaise Sauce (Dutch Sauce). — Beat half a 
cupful of butter to a cream, and add gradually the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs, the juice of half a 
lemon, and pepper and salt to season ; cook over 
boiling water until it begins to thicken, beating with 

209 O 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

an egg-beater. Add a cupful of hot water very care- 
fully. Serve as soon as it is of the proper consistency. 

Hot Horse-radish Sauce. — Peel a stick of horse- 
radish, grate (not scrape it), make a thickening of 
equal parts of butter and flour, one ounce. Moisten 
with stock sufficient to make a smooth sauce, not 
too thick. Directly it boils add two tablespoonfuls 
of grated horse-radish ; let it cook for three minutes. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. — Put the yolk of one egg (quite 
free from any white), half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
pinch of cayenne, into a bowl standing in ice. Stir 
constantly, and add one cupful of pure olive oil, drop 
by drop. The goodness of the sauce depends upon 
adding the oil slowly, and beating well with a wooden 
spoon. When it begins to get thick, alternate a few 
drops of vinegar with the oil till you have put in three 
and a half tablespoonfuls of vinegar (lemon juice may 
be used instead). In the summer it is a good plan to 
mix the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with the raw one ; 
the sauce is made more quickly and is less likely to 
curdle. A little tarragon vinegar may be used, but 
many people dislike it. The sauce when made should 
be as thick as rich cream. 

Omnibus Sauce. — Take a pint of good vegetable 
stock, add a small glass of white wine, a bay leaf, 
salt and pepper, the rind of a lemon cut very fine, 
and a very little of the juice ; let it simmer together 
for six minutes. This sauce is good for almost any 
kind of dish. 

Paprika Sauce. — Peel four onions and cut them up ; 
put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, add the 

210 



MISCELLANEOUS SAUCES 

onions, and stew ,them until a bright golden colour. 
Rub them through a fine sieve, with half a pint of 
sour cream, a little salt, and half a teaspoonful of 
paprika (to be bought at any good London grocer's). 
Heat again. This sauce is good with any dish. 

Piquante Sauce. — Take one pound of ripe tomatoes, 
pass them through a sieve, rub with a wooden spoon ; 
add two ounces of butter, a small shallot, the juice of 
two lemons, one teaspoonful of sugar, one dessert- 
spoonful of Worcester sauce, salt, and cayenne. Add 
a tablespoonful of flour mixed to a smooth paste with 
a little water ; stir well over a gentle fire, and boil for 
ten minutes. Remove the shallot before serving. 

Poor Man's Sauce. — This sauce is made with five 
or six shallots, a little chopped parsley, some good 
vegetable stock, a small spoonful of vinegar, salt and 
pepper ; boil the whole till the shallots are cooked. 

Quick B^arnaise Sauce. — Beat the yolks of four 
eggs with four tablespoonfuls of oil, and four of 
water ; add a cupful of boiling water, and cook slowly 
until thick and smooth. Take from the fire, and add 
minced onions, capers, olives, pickles, and parsley, 
and a little tarragon vinegar. 

Thickening for Sauces. — When the thickening is 
made each time it is wanted a small piece of butter 
is melted in a stewpan, not boiled ; then add the same 
quantity of flour, stir over a slow fire until it is a 
golden colour (if it is intended for a white sauce, 
it is stirred for an instant, but is not allowed to take 
colour) ; if the yolks of eggs are used in white sauces 
they must never be thrown suddenly into hot sauce 

211 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

or gravy, but a little of the latter must be added by 
degrees to the basin containing the beaten yolks, 
whisking all the time ; then throw all back into the 
saucepan to get hot, still stirring, but the sauce must 
not boil after the eggs have been added. 

Tomato Sauce. — (i) Take one and a half tablespoon- 
f uls each of chopped celery, onion, and carrots. Cook 
in a quarter of a cup of butter till well browned, add a 
quarter of a cup of flour, and stir till well blended ; 
then pour on gradually, while stirring, one and a half 
cups of water, season with salt and pepper ; two or 
three cups of cut, stewed, and strained tomatoes, 
in which one-quarter of a teaspoonful of soda has 
been dissolved, add a sprig each of parsley and 
thyme ; cook for twenty minutes. Rub through a 
sieve. 

Tomato Sauce. — (2) Brown a tablespoonful of flour 
in butter, add a cupful of stewed tomatoes, and salt, 
pepper, grated onion, a very little powdered cloves, 
and mace to season; cook until smooth and thick, 
stirring constantly ; rub through a sieve, and serve. 

Tomato Sauce a L'EspagnoUes. — Take three chopped 
shallots, put them into a stewpan with a tablespoonful 
of finest oil, salt and pepper, ground ginger, ground 
nutmeg (very little of the two latter). Let the 
shallots take a good colour, without burning, add five 
or six tomatoes skinned, and all the pips squeezed 
out. Let them cook very gently until all moisture 
has disappeared ; they should take the consistency of 
jam. Naturally they will lose their bright colour, 

but the taste will be none the less excellent ; they 

212 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

should not be strained, but sent to table in a sauce- 
boat. This sauce is equally good hot or cold. 

Note. — To skin tomatoes easily, place them for a 
few moments in the oven or on the stove, or plunge 
them into boiling water. 

Walnut Gravy. — Melt one ounce of butter in a pan, 
and add three tablespoonfuls of ground walnuts, one 
onion sliced, and fry a dark brown ; stir in slowly one 
tablespoonful of flour, then add one cup of hot water, 
a little gravy essence, pepper, and salt, and let it boil 
up ; take off, strain, and serve. 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS. 

A Good Vegetable Soup. — For a vegetable soup 
scrape and cut into dice a root of salsify, a turnip, 
and a carrot ; mince enough cabbage very finely to 
make a tablespoonful, slice very thin two parboiled 
potatoes ; cut two stalks of celery into small pieces ; 
rub a cupful of canned tomatoes through a sieve, 
slice one onion in thin slices ; measure out a half- 
cupful of canned green peas, and the same quantity 
of canned Lima beans ; chop fine, enough parsley 
to make two teaspoonfuls. Into a pot put the carrot, 
salsify, turnip, and cabbage, and cover with salted 
boiling water ; bring again to the boil, add the beans 
and the peas, and cook slowly for half an hour. 
Drain the vegetables and set to one side. In the 
bottom of the soup-pot fry the sliced onion in three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, and when the onion is a 
light-brown colour, stir all the other vegetables 

213 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and cover with a quart of cold water, or, if you have 
it, a quart of weak soup stock. Cover closely, and 
simmer for an hour steadily. At the end of an hour 
add the parsley and celery, pepper and salt to taste. 
Rub a large spoonful of butter into two tablespoonfuls 
of brown flour, and stir into the soup. Cook, stirring 
steadily, until smooth and thick, then serve. 

Almond Soup. — Three ounces of ground almonds, 
one pint of new milk, three ounces of milk powder, one 
tablespoonful of flour, one onion, a good stick of 
celery, one ounce of butter, pepper, salt, and mace. 

Place the milk in a pan, and when ready to boil, 
put in the milk powder, almonds, onion, and 
celery. Boil for one hour ; then take out the onion 
and celery, mix in flour and butter, add seasoning, 
then let all come to the boil again, and serve with 
toast. 

An Excellent Vegetable Soup {Mrs. C. W. Earle.) — 
Take two carrots, two onions, two turnips, a little 
spinach, lettuce, endive, and sorrel. Tie up a sprig of 
every sort of herb you have in the garden. Boil all 
in water. When the hard vegetables are cooked take 
out the sweet herbs, rub the whole through a fine 
sieve, make it not too thick by adding the water the 
vegetables were boiled in ; add a little butter, pepper 
and salt, and serve hot. 

Bouillon aux Herbes, for Invalids.— Take a good 
handful of chervil, add a lettuce and some sorrel. 
Chop up the whole, and boil it in a pint of water, add 
a piece of butter and a very little salt. 

Bouillon Maigre. — Put in a saucepan ten carrots 
214 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

and as many turnips and onions cut into squares, two 
lettuces, two heads of celery, a handful of chervil, half 
a cabbage and a parsnip cut into thin slices, add to 
the vegetables three ounces of butter and a pint of 
water, simmer slowly, stirring frequently until all the 
liquid is absorbed, then fill it up with water and add a 
quart of peas (green peas, if not in season dried peas) 
previously soaked, two cloves, salt and pepper. Let 
it boil for three or four hours, then pass it through a 
sieve. 

Brazil Nut Soup (Mrs. C. W. Earle's " Third Pot- 
Pourri" Recipe). — One pound of ground nuts stewed 
for twelve hours in two quarts of water ; flavour with 
celery and a few fried onions, add one quart of boil- 
ing milk. Pass through a strainer, season, and serve 
with fried bread dice. 

Celery Soup {Mrs. C. W. Earle's Recipe). — One head 
of celery, three potatoes, one tablespoonful of butter, 
or nutter, two tablespoonfuls of cornflour, one quart of 
water, one pint of milk. Boil the celery and potatoes 
(cut into pieces) in the water till soft, then add the 
milk, butter, and seasoning. Stir thoroughly. Mix 
the cornflour in a little water, stir it in ; boil about 
twenty or thirty minutes, and serve. All soups should 
be eaten with bread or toast. Bread cut in slices and 
put in the oven to bake a pale brown is very good ; 
odd pieces may be used in this way, and served 
broken up on a dish. 

Cherry Soup. — Stem and wash one quart of morella 
cherries. Simmer slowly in a quart of water until 
tender. Rub through a sieve and return to the fire, 

215 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

sweeten with half a cupful of sugar. When boiled, 
thicken slightly with a tablespoonful of arrowroot 
rubbed to a paste with a little cold water. As soon 
as the soup looks perfectly clear take it off the fire, 
add one tablespoonful of lemon juice, and put aside 
to cool. Serve in sherbet glasses. 

Chestnut Soup. — Take one pound chestnuts, one 
or two onions, half a pint of vegetable stock, and one 
ounce of nut butter. 

Boil the chestnuts for fifteen minutes, and peel 
them. Put these with the onions (sliced) into a 
roomy stewpan with the butter, and fry briskly for 
five minutes. Now add the stock, with seasoning to 
taste, and bring to the boil, simmer gently until the 
onions and chestnuts are quite soft. Pass through 
a hair sieve, dilute with milk until it is of the con- 
sistency of a thin cream. Serve with croutons. 

Chicory Soup. — Prepare the chicory as for a pur^e, 
bring a pint of vegetable stock up to boiling point, 
add the pur^e, and boil for about twenty minutes, 
then rub it through a sieve, heat it again, skim, and 
add some cream, a little salt, and a pinch of white 
sugar. 

Fruit Soup {A Danish Recipe). — One cupful of pearl 
tapioca, half a pound of prunes (stoned), half a pound 
of stoned raisins, three large apples, chop three slices 
of lemon, add sugar, cinnamon, and whole cloves to 
taste. 

Soak the tapioca until soft, mix all the other in- 
gredients with this, and boil slowly in water enough 
to make it, when cooked, of the consistency of a thick 

216 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

soup. This will require the addition of water from 
time to time. When the tapioca is thoroughly dis- 
solved and the fruit is cooked, add the desired amount 
of sugar, and half a pint of water. This soup may be 
eaten hot or cold ; if the latter, whipped cream is 
an agreeable addition in respect of both flavour and 
appearance. 

Gruyere Cheese Soup. — To begin with, have ready 
your vegetable broth, half a pound of Gruyere cheese, 
grate half of it and the other half cut in very thin 
slices. Put at the bottom of the saucepan a little 
butter, then a thin layer of the grated cheese, cover 
this with more very thin slices of bread. Over this 
again put the thin slices of cheese, then another layer 
of bread, then again the grated cheese so that each 
layer is alternate bread and cheese, till you have used 
up the latter. The top layer should be of the slices 
of cheese, on which place some little pieces of butter, 
pour over a little of the broth and simmer until all 
is absorbed, then add the remainder of the broth 
very hot, and serve. This soup should be rather 
thick. 

Leek and Potato Soup. — Cut in little pieces eight 
good leeks, put them in water in a casserole with 
some salt, pepper, and some potatoes cut in pieces, 
let them boil till well cooked, and the potatoes can 
easily be mashed ; add a good piece of butter, mix 
all well, and pour the whole on some small slices 
of bread placed in a tureen. 

Milk Soup [Another of Mrs. C. W. Earle's Recipes). — 
Cut one onion into small pieces, put into a saucepan 

217 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

with some butter, let it fry till it is chestnut colour, 
then add a pint of milk ; let it boil for some minutes, 
then pass it through a strainer, season, and serve. 
Fry well in butter small pieces of bread, and serve 
separately. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — Fry six good-sized onions in 
one ounce of butter till nicely browned, add two 
breakfast cups of German lentils, a good handful of 
spinach leaves, a few capers, about six chillis, and 
three pints of water. Let this simmer for two or three 
hours, then strain off. Return the soup to the pan 
and add two tablespoonfuls of small tapioca which 
has been soaked for an hour or two. Boil till per- 
fectly clear, half an hour to three-quarters. When 
ready for serving add salt to taste, and one teaspoonful 
of "Odin." Some small custard quenelles should be 
put in a tureen. These are made by beating one egg, 
adding two ounces of flour and half a pint of milk and 
a pinch of salt. Bake until firm, and cut into dice or 
circles. — Sidney Beards Guide Book, " Order of the 
Golden Age!' 

Nettle Soup. — An excellent and nourishing soup can 
be made from young nettles by boiling them, putting 
them through a sieve, and adding a little grated cheese 
and milk or cream and salt and pepper to taste. 

Onion and Potato Soup. — Slice two or three large 
onions. Fry them in a tablespoonful of butter, or 
nutter, until they are soft. Then add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and stir until it is absorbed in the 
onion juice. To this, add slowly a pint of boiling 
water, stirring all the time so that it will be smooth. 

218 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

Boil and mash three good-sized potatoes. Add to 
them slowly a quart of scalded milk, stirring well. 
Add the potato mixture to the onion mixture. Season 
with salt and pepper. Let it get very hot and strain 
into a hot tureen. Sprinkle parsley over the top and 
serve with croutons. 

Onion Soup Maigre {French Recipe).— Take a dozen 
middle-sized onions, cut in slices, cook them over the 
fire with a good piece of butter, keep turning them 
till they are cooked and well coloured, add a table- 
spoonful of flour, let it boil up, add some slices of 
bread and one pint or more of water, let it simmer a 
little, and serve. Some may prefer to strain off the 
onions. A cupful of milk and a little cream added 
last thing would soften the flavour. 

Onions with Rice. — Prepare your onions as above, 
add boiling water, pass your onions through a sieve, 
and then add some rice instead of the bread and let 
it boil for an hour or longer. 

Peanut Soup. — One leek, half a teaspoonful of salt 
and pepper, two teaspoonfuls of flour, cold water to 
make a smooth paste, two teaspoonfuls of peanut 
butter. Scald the water in a double boiler, and add 
the peanut butter. Blend thoroughly, put seasoning 
with flour and water, mix, and add to the leek and 
peanut mixture. Stir until well cooked, about two 
hours, 

Potage k la Cr6cy. — Choose good red carrots and 
make a pur^e with a few turnips, a leek, and an onion, 
a little salt and ten peppercorns, moistened with broth, 
pass them through a sieve and stir on the fire without 

219 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

letting it boil. Skim and pour on to some bread 
fried in butter, which must be placed in the soup 
tureen. 

Potage a la pur^e de Marrons. — Take a quarter of 
a pound of blanched chestnuts, and place them in 
water hot enough to enable you to peel the second 
skin easily. When peeled, place them with a piece of 
crumb of bread dipped in broth in a mortar. Dilute 
this paste with some hot bouillon maigre and pound 
well. When done, pass the whole through a tin 
strainer and with care add as much broth as is 
necessary to make a smooth pur^e, then boil about 
thirty minutes, season well, and pour over croAtons 
fried in butter. 

Potage aux Herbes. — Take some chervil, white beet 
(poir^e), lettuce, purslane, and sorrel, in equal quan- 
tities, wash them, cut them into moderate-sized pieces, 
then dip them in butter. When well soaked, add the 
water and a little salt, and boil for twenty minutes, then 
thicken it with four yolks of eggs (it must not boil 
after) and pour it over minced bread in the soup 
tureen, some may like to add more chervil. If pre- 
ferred, the eggs can be omitted. 

Potage Panada (^French Recipe). — Put in a casserole 
some slices of bread very thinly cut, with some water, 
some salt and pepper. Cook on a slow fire without 
stirring, till the bread is well soaked, then add a good 
piece of fresh butter, and mix the whole well, serve 
without replacing on the fire. You can add, if pre- 
ferred, two yolks of eggs, some cream or milk, at the 
same time as the butter. Some may dislike the crust 

220 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

of bread, but the potage panada is more wholesome 
made with the crusts than only with crumbs. 

Potage Printanier.^ — After having washed an equal 
quantity of white carrots, turnips, onions and leeks, 
cook them in good broth with white haricot, haricot 
verts, green peas, small beans, cucumber, lettuce, cos 
lettuce, the tips of asparagus, sorrel, and chervil. Add 
a very Httle sugar, let the whole be boiled down ; add 
a pur^e of peas liquefied with vegetable stock, season 
with salt and pepper. 

Potato Soup. — Cut two pounds of floury potatoes, 
put them in a saucepan with two ounces of butter, 
cook them for ten minutes, do not let them brown, 
then add a pint of milk and a quart of water, boil 
until the potatoes are soft enough to pass through 
a fine sieve, add a handful of sorrel cooked in butter. 
Boil up again, and add more milk if necessary. When 
finished boiling stir in a cupful of cream, serve with 
fried croAtons. A leek can be added if desired. 

Instead of the sorrel, green peas or blanched beans 
can be added to this soup ; if so, it is better to add the 
yolks of two eggs. 

Prune Soup. — For this soup, soak a pound of prunes 
in water over night, and add a pint of water in the 
morning, and let them gradually approach simmering 
point. Stir in a pinch of salt and cinnamon, three 
tablespoonfuls of fine sago, and let the whole gently 
simmer till the fruit is quite tender, and the sago 
clear, then add a wineglassful of claret, boil up, and 
serve immediately with small squares of toast. 

Pumpkin Soup. — Take half a pumpkin, peel off the 

221 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

skin and remove the pips, cut it in pieces the size 
of a nut, and put it in a saucepan on the fire with 
some water. When reduced to a pulp, about two 
hours is required, add a good lump of butter and 
a little salt, add also some vegetable broth. Have 
ready a pint, or a pint and a half of hot milk, adding 
to it some sugar, or a little salt if you prefer it, and 
mix it with the pur6e of the pumpkin. Put some 
bread-crumbs in the soup tureen, and pour into it 
the mixture of pumpkin and milk, with a small tea- 
spoonful of orange-flower water. 

Sorrel and Potato Soup. — Cook in some butter a 
good handful of sorrel, then add some bread and 
mealy potatoes cut in pieces, add salt and pepper, 
also, if you Hke, some small pieces of bread and some 
vegetable broth. Cook slowly for an hour or more 
and season well. 

Sorrel Soup. — Wash and drain two bunches of 
sorrel. Chop it finely and cook with two ounces of 
butter until it becomes a pulp. Stir in one table- 
spoonful of flour, salt, and pepper to taste and one 
cupful of water. When it boils add two or more 
yolks of eggs and a cupful of creaip. The soup must 
not be allowed to boil after the yolks of eggs are 
added. Serve with fried bread. 

Soup aux Ghoux. — Put some dried cabbage in a 
saucepan of boiling water, with an onion stuck with 
three cloves, turnips, leeks, carrots, celery, some peeled 
potatoes, salt and pepper. Half and half of milk and 
water would make this a good milk soup. Simmer 
slowly for four hours, skimming carefully. 

222 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

Soup with little White Onions.— Take a plate of 
small white onions, remove the outer skin, and put 
them in hot water for a few minutes, then saut6 them 
with butter and a little sugar in a casserole, and some 
fried croutons of bread, and pour the onion stock over 
it (the onion soup previously mentioned). You may 
add when serving, some grated Gruy^re or Parmesan 
cheese which is served separately, or slices of Gruyere 
cheese on thin slices of toasted bread, browned in the 
oven, can be put in the soup. 

Tomato Soup (^French Recipe). — Cut up a dozen 
good tomatoes (unpeeled), put them in a stewpan 
with a sliced Spanish onion and a tablespoonful 
of the best olive oil. Cook gently until well re- 
duced, pass through a wire sieve, add some good 
stock until of the proper consistency, return to the 
pan and reheat. At the moment of serving, flavour 
with lemon juice and cayenne pepper and salt. 

Turnip and Potatoes. — Fry brown two onions, add 
enough water, and an equal number of turnips and 
potatoes, and some small slices of bread. When all 
is cooked, pass it through a sieve, and add to it some 
good vegetable broth, and thicken with a little flour 
or arrowroot mixed smoothly; and last thing, add 
half a cup of cream and a little milk, but do not let 
the soup boil after that. The yolks of eggs may be 
substituted for the cream. 

Vegetable Clear Stock (^One of Mrs. C. W. Earle's 
Recipes). — ^Two onions, two carrots, two turnips, one 
bunch of sweet herbs, a few outer stalks of celery, 
peeling and leaves of any vegetable except potatoes 

223 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and cabbage. Cut it all up fine, and put it into three 
quarts of cold water. Let it boil gently for from six 
to eight hours, skimming now and then ; it should 
boil down to one quart. Strain through a fine strainer. 
If the stock is too pale in colour (it should be the 
colour of pale sherry) a little burnt onion may be 
added. The stock-pot should be put on the fire every 
day, and any scraps of vegetables put in, but it must 
be cleared out, and the cooked vegetables thrown 
away every evening. Water, that vegetables (except 
the cabbage family) have been cooked in, may be used. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup. — ^Take six small marrows, 
or one large one, peel, and remove the seeds (if 
formed), cut into slices, and put into a saucepan with 
two ounces of butter and two onions finely chopped ; 
let it simmer for a few minutes at the side of the 
stove, but do not let it boil. Stir in one tablespoonful 
of flour to absorb the butter, add one pint of vegetable 
stock or water, four peppercorns, and three cloves, 
a small teaspoonful of salt, and a sprig of parsley. 
A few celery leaves are a great addition. Simmer 
slowly for two hours ; remove the celery leaves and 
parsley. Rub all through a sieve, return to the sauce- 
pan, add two tablespoonfuls of fine sago, and half 
a pint of milk. Simmer for twenty minutes, stirring 
frequently ; taste to see if more seasoning is needed. 
Stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve ; or two 
yolks of eggs may be put into the tureen and the 
soup poured on slowly, stirring all the time. 

It should be smooth and bland. A little cayenne 
may be approved. 

224 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

Green Marrow Soup. — Make as above, with the 
addition of one pound of spinach to the marrow ; or 
vegetable green colouring may be purchased and 
added to the soup just before serving. 

Or it may be coloured pink by cooking one peeled 
beetroot with the stock, removing the beet after the 
colour is extracted, and omitting the spinach. 

Vegetable Pot-au-Feu {Mrs. C. W. Earle's Recipes in 
"Helpful Hints"). — Cut up into small pieces as many 
vegetables as you have — carrots, celery, turnips, cauli- 
flowers, onions, or any other vegetables. Fry them 
in butter till browned. Put in a saucepan with water, 
add a handful of tapioca, and let it simmer gently all 
day. Skim occasionally, season, strain, and serve 
with sippets of toast. 

Vermicelli or Tagliatelle Soup with Sorrel. — Cook 
six sliced potatoes in three pints of stock, then 
rub them through a fine sieve. Cook an ounce 
of vermicelli or tagliatelle in hot water, drain it, 
wash and shred finely half a pound of sorrel, put 
it into the stewpan with two ounces of butter and fry 
for a few minutes, then add the soup to this, boil the 
whole up and stir in six eggs well beaten and a gill of 
cream, salt and pepper ; add the cooked vermicelli or 
tagliatelle just before serving. 

MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 

A Substitute for Cream. — Boil down a quart of 
milk nearly to a pint. Then mix smoothly a dessert- 
spoonful of the finest rice flour with a httle milk ; 

225 P 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

add by degrees a few spoonfuls of the hot milk 
to it. Put into a saucepan with one or two lumps 
of sugar ; continue boiling till the flour is completely 
cooked and thick enough. A small quantity of yolk 
of egg, or saffron, may be added to give it a colour ; 
stir until quite cold to prevent it skinning. This 
cream can be used for table, or put into tea or coffee, 
or substituted in dishes where cream is mentioned. 

Banana and Almond Custard. — Blanch and pound 
finely two ounces of almonds, with one teaspoonful 
of rosewater ; sweeten to taste. Cut up some bananas 
in thin round slices, beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix 
almonds, bananas, and eggs, with half a pint of cream. 
Put them in a saucepan over a slow fire, stirring one 
way until thick ; pour this mixture into buttered china 
moulds, bake in a slow oven. It would be better to 
place them in a tin of hot water to prevent them curd- 
ling ; cook about ten to twenty minutes. Decorate the 
moulds with two whites of eggs, whipped to a firm 
froth, and put in the oven for a minute to set them. 

Banana Fluff. — Red bananas should be selected for 
this, as they have a richer flavour than those with 
yellow skins. 

Peel and cut them into dice ; squeeze over a little 
lemon juice, and cover with a small cupful of ginger 
syrup that has been drained from a jar of preserved 
ginger. Allow the fruit to remain covered for at least 
two hours, then mash to a paste with a wooden spoon ; 
gradually fold in, half a pint of cream beaten solid, 
two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar, and the stiffly 
whipped white of one egg. Serve immediately. 

226 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

Heap in wide-rimmed glasses that have been lined 
with macaroons. 

Fried Bananas. — Peel the bananas, slice length- 
ways, season with salt, dredge with flour and fry in 
oil or butter; or dip in egg and crumbs, or cut in 
two, crossways, dip in egg and seasoned crumbs. 
Put on ice for two hours and fry in deep fat. 
Sprinkle with lemon juice if desired. 

Banana Fritters. — Make a batter of two cupfuls of 
milk, three well-beaten eggs and enough flour sifted, 
with a teaspoonful of baking powder to make a stiff 
batter. Dip the peeled and quartered bananas in the 
batter, and fry brown in deep nutter. Drain and serve 
with any sauce preferred. 

Banana Omelette. — Peel four not over-ripe bananas, 
cut them into round slices, not too thin ; melt one 
ounce of butter in an omelette pan. When hot put 
in the bananas and toss them over the fire for a few 
minutes. Then sweeten with caster sugar. Break 
four fresh eggs into a basin and beat well ; add a 
tablespoonful of milk and a teaspoonful of sugar. 
Melt one ounce of butter in an omelette pan ; pour 
in the egg mixture, and stir over a quick fire until the 
eggs begin to set, then shape into an omelette. Put 
the prepared bananas into the centre, fill in the sides 
of the omelette and let it take colour, and turn out on 
to a hot dish. Dredge with sugar, glaze, and serve. 

Bean Relish. — Have ready a pint of cooked Lima 
beans. Mix together three or four tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of grated onion, half a teaspoonful of salt, 

227 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

half a teaspoonful of paprika. Mix, and toss the beans 
in it. Arrange on a serving-dish, outline with chopped 
pimento, and decorate with parsley. {Newark News.) 

Bread Soufla^. — Soak two breakfastcupfuls of stale 
bread-crumbs in one pint of hot milk, add six ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese, and beat thoroughly with 
the back of a wooden spoon. Beat three eggs until 
light, and add seasoning to taste. Put one ounce of 
butter in the pan and cook half of the mixture at a 
time, as this quantity will make two omelettes. Cook 
more slowly than for a plain omelette. When it is set, 
it will be as light as a souffle ; fold over the edges and 
serve immediately, or it may be baked in a well- 
buttered pie dish. 

Buttermilk Bread. — Sift four cups of flour into a 
basin ; add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one small teaspoonful of bi- 
carbonate of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar 
(or one tablespoonful of baking powder instead of the 
two ingredients), one well beaten egg, and enough 
buttermilk to make a soft dough ; knead lightly, lay 
on a buttered tin, and bake in a hot oven thirty- 
five minutes. This is sufficient for one loaf. {San 
Francisco Call.) 

Buttermilk Cake. — Into one pound of flour rub 
five ounces of dripping (or half butter and half lard) ; 
add a pinch of salt, five ounces of moist sugar ; flavour 
with a teaspoonful of caraway seeds, three ounces of 
sultanas, or three ounces of currants, and a teaspoon- 
ful of mixed spice, as liked. Mix all the ingredients 
thoroughly. Take half a pint of buttermilk into 

228 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

which a small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has 
been stirred, and mix into a light dough. Put into a 
buttered cake tin, and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. Sour milk will do as well as buttermilk, or 
milk can be curdled by the addition of a teaspoonful 
of vinegar. 

Chestnut Souffle. — Boil one pound of chestnuts 
until they are quite soft, remove the skins and pass 
through a nut mill, moisten with a quart of milk 
and half an ounce of butter melted, add pepper and 
salt, and the yolks of three eggs, and lastly the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a greased soufH6 
dish and bake quickly. 

Cocoanut Curry with Kidney Beans. — Cook in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two big peppers drained 
from a can, a cupful each of grated cocoanut and 
nut meats, and two cupfuls of strained tomatoes, for 
about three minutes. Then add a cupful of kidney 
beans that have been cooked until tender, and season 
with a teaspoonful of salt, and as much curry powder. 
Cook the mixture over hot water for about half an 
hour, and serve it in the centre of a border of hot 
boiled rice. 

Dahl and Rice (An Indian Breakfast- Dish). — Soak 
a cup of Egyptian lentils for twelve hours in cold 
water, then add to them an equal quantity of rice 
previously washed, and boil all together till tender 
(about twenty-five minutes), shred an onion very 
fine, and fry it in butter, and mix this butter with 
the dahl and rice, adding a small spoonful of curry 
powder. Serve hot with the fried onions as garnish. 

229 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Date and Nut Sandwich. — Take one cup of dates, 
one cup of English walnut meat, half a cup of cream, 
and wheat bread. 

Wash the dates and remove the inside white lining. 
Chop them very finely, and add the walnut meat 
chopped very finely. Mix to a paste with the cream, 
and spread between thin slices of bread and butter 
(Franklin's entire wheat bread). Remove the crust, 
and cut into fancy shapes. 

Date Buns. — Roll light bread dough. Cut thin, 
spread it with soft butter and then chopped dates. 
Roll the bread up and cut it with a sharp knife into 
pieces half an inch thick ; lay them in a buttered tin. 
Allow it to rise until double its bulk, and bake in a 
hot oven. 

Date MuflBns. — Two cups of pure white wheat flour, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one cup of milk, two eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, three-quarters of a cup of dates 
(stoned and cut in small pieces). 

Sift together the flour, baking-powder, and salt ; add 
the milk gradually, then the egg yolks beaten lightly, 
and the melted butter ; mix in the dates and add the 
egg whites beaten stiffly. Beat well, and bake for 
twenty-five minutes in buttered gem pans. 

Egg Curry. — Make the mixture as for a vegetable 
curry (see p. 246), and put into it some hard-boiled eggs 
cut in slices or chopped, and serve with boiled rice. 

Galantine alia Bolognese. — Stew half a pint of rice 
previously soaked, and soak half a pint of bread-crumbs 
in cold water, fry six mushrooms and six small 

230 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

onions separately. Strain the water from the bread- 
crumbs and put all through a sausage mill, add two 
well-beaten eggs, and pepper and salt. Put the 
mixture into a buttered paper, and shape it like a 
bolster, fastening the ends with white of egg, tie in 
a cloth and boil for one and a half hours. Take off 
the fire, and leave it in the water for half an hour, 
then take it out, and put it between two plates with 
a weight on the top. Before serving take off the 
paper and glaze with aspic jelly. This is a good cold 
luncheon dish and can be served with tender lettuce, 
and salad dressing. — Sidney Beard's Guide Book, " Order 
of the Golden Age." 

Graham Nut Bread. — Two cups of Graham flour, 
one cup of white flour, one cup of milk, one cup of 
broken walnuts or peanuts, one scant cup of molasses, 
one teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Mix the dry 
ingredients together, then add the molasses and milk. 
Bake in a shallow pan, so that it can be cut in slices 
about one and a half inches in thickness. 

Green Pea Galantine. — Pass one pint of green peas 
(cooked) through a sieve, add one small onion grated, 
some chopped mint, a quarter of a pound pine kernel 
nutmeat (first passing it through a mill), 2 ounces 
tapioca, which has been soaked overnight in cold 
water, pepper and salt, and a quarter of a pound 
of bread-crumbs. Mix well, and add one raw egg. 
Put into a greased mould or pie-dish, and bake in a 
slow oven three-quarters of an hour. Turn out when 
cold, and serve with salad. 

Home-made Macaroni. — Take one pound best white 
231 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

flour, put in a basin, and make a hole in the middle of 
the flour, in which put four whites of eggs and half a gill 
of cold water, and a pinch of salt. Beat the eggs with 
a fork, mix the flour gradually. When well mixed put 
the paste on a board and knead well, roll the paste into 
very thin sheets, place it on a clean cloth and dry. 
When rolling the paste for cutting (in long strips or 
any shape desired), sprinkle the sheets of paste with 
semolina, or better still with maize flour. 

Hominy and Cheese. — Cook the hominy as for a 
breakfast cereal, season with salt and pepper, and a 
tablespoonful of butter. Pour it when tender into 
a buttered shallow baking-dish. Spread thickly 
over the top stewed, seasoned tomatoes, and over 
these lay thinly sliced cheese. Bake until brown in 
a hot oven. 

How to Boil Rice. — Wash the rice in cold water, 
boil it until tender in abundance of sahed boiling 
water for twenty minutes, pour the water off, fold a 
clean cloth eight times, and put it on to the top of the 
rice ; keep the saucepan sufficiently hot to draw the 
moisture up, without burning the rice. This method 
ought to make the rice dry and light. 

One teacupful of rice will swell to a good half pint, 
when cooked — in fact it more than doubles its bulk. 

Italian mixed Dish (Fried).— Cut one or two young 
green pumpkins into thin slices about as long as a 
finger, and half as wide, and lay them on a plate 
with a little salt. Mix three ounces of butter and 
three tablespoonfuls of flour in a saucepan and boil 
for two minutes. Add half a tumbler of cream, half 

232 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

a tumbler of good stock. Boil until it is a stiff 
Bechamel. Then moisten a small truffle or some 
mushrooms (with which one large yellow pumpkin 
and potatoes may be sliced), mix with the Bechamel 
and roll into small balls, dip in egg and grated bread- 
crumbs, and put aside until wanted. Take the 
skin of pumpkin, flour some young artichokes, pro- 
perly prepare and cut into squares (if not cut young 
and tender, they must be boiled first) some cauli- 
flower and bits of cardoon. Dip them in egg and 
toss them with flour. Fry all together in pure olive 
oil, season with a sprinkling of salt and serve very 
hot. 

Swiss Roll. — Four ounces of butter, four ounces of 
flour, two large eggs, a saltspoonful of baking powder, 
and three ounces of sugar. Beat the butter and sugar 
until light and creamy, then add the well-beaten eggs, 
and afterwards the sifted flour gradually, and the 
baking powder. Spread the batter on to a buttered 
tin and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes ; turn 
carefully, trim the rough edges, and spread a little 
greengage or raspberry jam ; roll, and sprinkle with 
sugar. 

Lemon Swiss Roll. — Make a mixture as directed for 
Swiss roll, but add to the ingredients the finely grated 
rind of half a lemon. When baked, spread with a 
lemon filling, made as follows : one ounce of butter, 
ten lumps of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, two 
eggs. Rub off the yellow parts of the lemon rind 
with the lumps of sugar, crush them in a mortar. 
Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the sugar, and 

233 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

stir occasionally over a gentle heat until it is dissolved. 
Take it off the fire, and see that it is not boiling. Add 
very gradually to the beaten eggs, and stir over the 
stove until it is quite as thick as custard. When cool 
spread over the Swiss mixture and roll it carefully. 
[San Diego Union.) 

Macaroni Alia Napolitana. — Put one pound of 
macaroni into a saucepan, half full of good broth and 
water. Boil fast for twenty minutes, then add two or 
more cups of broth, and a glass of sherry. Boil gently 
for twenty minutes ; stir occasionally to prevent its 
sticking to the pan. Allow the broth to evaporate 
before serving. Pour over some grated Parmesan 
cheese and tomato sauce. 

(2) Take as much macaroni or spagahetti as you 
require. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and 
cook for forty minutes. Strain, and serve with any 
good gravy you may have, and grated Parmesan cheese. 

Macedoine of Vegetables. — (i) Cook together a 
carrot and two turnips, cut into dice, strain ; mix with 
one can each, of peas and stringed beans. Reheat, 
mix with brown sauce, and serve hot. 

(2) Cook separately a carrot, a turnip, well chopped, 
and half a cupful each of peas and stringed beans ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of cooked butter beans, and 
a few pieces of cooked cauliflower. Reheat in 
Bechamel sauce, season with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg. 

(3) Use six or eight different sorts of vegetables, 
and cook them separately in salted water. Drain, 
rinse in cold water, and reheat with white or 

234 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

Bechamel sauce. Carrots, turnips, stringed beans, 
green peas, cauliflower, asparagus, may all be used. 

(4) Mix together one cupful each of cooked cauli- 
flower and diced cooked carrots, and half a can of 
French beans. Reheat in B6chamel or cream sauce. 
Season with salt, pepper, sugar, grated onion, a bit 
of bay leaf, or a heaped can of mixed vegetables, with 
a tablespoonful of good stock, a teaspoonful each of 
salt and sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a 
cupful water, and pepper to season. 

Margaret Plum Pudding {as used at the Lady 
Margaret Fruitarian Hospital). — One pound of grated 
bread-crumbs, one pound of stoned raisins, one pound 
of sultanas, half a pound of candied peel, half a 
pound of sweet almonds, a few bitter almonds, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of pine 
kernels, a quarter of a pound of shelled Brazil nuts, 
half a pound of brown sugar, the grated rind of three 
lemons, six eggs. Finely cut up the peel and blanch 
all the nuts, except the pine kernels, pass through the 
nut mill ; the latter are to be simply chopped. Rub 
the butter into the bread-crumbs ; add the fruit, sugar, 
grated lemons, and lemon peel ; then the eggs, well 
beaten and mixed together. Put into a basin and boil 
in the usual way for six hours. The eggs may be re- 
placed by a cupful of milk, half a cup of syrup, and a 
teaspoon of baking powder. (Dr. Josiah Oldfield, 
Fruitarian Diet.) 

Minestra of Vegetables {Spanish Recipe). — Pre- 
pare and cut up coarsely the following : — Two carrots, 
two turnips, two leeks, two onions, four small pump- 

235 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

kins, half a tin of tomatoes, two sweet Spanish 
allspice, or a little cayenne pepper. Put ten table- 
spoonfuls of oil in a saucepan, add the onions and 
leeks, and let them simmer for ten minutes ; add 
the other vegetables. Cut up and add a handful of 
Haricot Verts, and peel a handful of white Haricots, 
and the same amount of "petit pois." Mix the 
whole together ; cover with good white gravy or 
one pint of water, and cook for an hour on a slow 
fire till the liquid is reduced ; season with salt, and 
serve hot. It is an improvement if two tablespoonfuls 
of rice or the same quantity of broken macaroni is 
added and cooked with the vegetables. This makes 
a very nourishing dish. 

Nettle Soup. — Take quite young nettles, well washed, 
and treat them like spinach. Boil them ; keep a 
little of the water in which they were boiled, and mix 
with it milk and a little cream. Season to taste, and 
thicken with a little corn-flour mixed smooth in cold 
water. 

Norwegian Bread. — One pint of barley meal, one 
half pint of Graham flour, one half pint of flour, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one pint of milk. Bake in a moderate oven 
for forty minutes or longer. 

Nut Bread. — Two cups of flour, one half teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one cup of 
finely chopped peanuts, one cup of milk, one half cup 
of sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful of butter. Sift the 
baking powder, flour and salt and sugar into a bowl, 
add the peanuts, which have been put through a meat 

236 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

chopper. Beat the eggs, add the milk and stir into 
the flour, and mix well. Put in an earthenware dish, 
or a flat cake tin that has been brushed with melted 
butter ; bake in a moderate oven thirty to thirty-five 
minutes. This is best when a day old, cut in thin 
slices. It makes very good sandwiches. {Philadelphia 
North American.') 

Nut Omelette. — One egg, a tablespoonful of milk, 
a dessertspoonful of grated or flaked pine kernels or 
walnuts ; heat the egg, add milk and nuts ; put a 
piece of nutter lard, or butter made with nuts, into 
the omelette pan (or frying pan), and when the fat 
boils, pour the mixture in, and keep shaking until set. 
Roll up with a fish slice, and serve on a hot dish 
immediately. — Nu-Era Recipes, George Savage and 
Sons. 

Nut Sandwiches. — Beat a quarter of a pound of 
butter to a cream with the back of a wooden spoon ; 
add two ounces of caster sugar, three yolks of eggs, 
three ounces of blanched and grated nuts of any 
kind, and the well beaten whites of three eggs. Mix 
all thoroughly, and bake in a sandwich tin for twenty 
minutes. 

Oat Cream. — Heat a pint of milk until nearly boil- 
ing, sift into it half a pint of rolled oats, keeping it 
well stirred ; simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain. 
The oat cream should be sucked through straws. {Dr. 
Oldfields Recipe^ 

(Eufs a la Folignac. — Butter some cups well, next 
put in at the bottom of the cups a mince of finely- 
chopped herbs, add a finely-chopped shallot if hked. 

237 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Break one egg into each cup, add a little seasoning ; 
steam till set, but not too hard. Be very careful 
not to break the eggs when turning them out on 
fried croutons. Serve with savoury sauce round and 
under the crusts ; tomato sauce is very good for this. 

Orange Omelette. — Peel and slice in long strips 
three oranges, and dust a little sugar over them ; beat 
the yolks of three eggs, and stir into them two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, the same of orange juice, and the 
grated rind of two oranges ; add to this mixture the 
well-whipped whites of the eggs, and place quickly 
in a hot buttered omelette pan. When the omelette 
is set and commencing to brown, lay the slices of 
orange on the top, fold over, and serve at once with 
caster sugar sprinkled over. 

Pillau with Koftas {Indian Dish). — For the Pillau, 
a pound of rice boiled in three pints of water with 
two ounces of butter, one small onion, two heads 
of garlic, twelve cloves, and eight cardamom seeds, 
which give a spicy flavour ; the rice is boiled until 
soft. Mix with the koftas two cupfuls of chopped 
onion, a head of garlic, and half a teaspoonful 
of mixed spices. The mixture is then formed into 
cutlets, dipped in bread-crumbs, and fried a golden 
brown. Sliced onions fried a pale brown, fried sul- 
tanas, fried almonds, and hard-boiled eggs cut into 
rings, are used to garnish this dish. 

Potato Oake {French Recipe). — VvX in a casserole 
a pound of mealy potatoes, peeled and cooked, add a 
little salt, some grated rind of lemon, a piece of fresh 
butter, a little cream, and three ounces of powdered 

238 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

sugar, stirring continually, and beating the potatoes 
smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Let it 
cool, put in a little orange-flower water, the whole 
of eight eggs well-beaten to a froth ; mix all well, and 
form into a cake, cook it in a well buttered pie-dish in 
a baking oven. The time depends on the heat of the 
oven, from half to three-quarters of an hour. 

President's Brownies. — One cupful of sugar, half a 
cupful of butter beaten to a cream, two eggs well 
beaten, half a cupful of walnuts chopped, two squares 
of chocolate grated, half a cupful of flour. Mix the 
butter and sugar in a bowl, add the eggs ; sift in the 
flour, mixing carefully ; add the walnuts and choco- 
late. Bake in a shallow tin, garnishing the top with 
the walnuts. 

Prune Bread. — One heaped cupful of prunes, one 
quart of whole wheat flour, one pint of Graham flour 
(or self-raising flour), one teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one compressed yeast cake, or 
one ounce of yeast ; of lukewarm milk and lukewarm 
water, about half a pint. Wash the prunes, and soak 
them overnight in water to cover. In the morning 
stone and chop finely. Mix flour, salt and sugar 
together in a basin. Add the yeast cake dissolved 
in a little lukewarm water. Allow to sponge for 
ten minutes in a warm place, out of a draught. 
Pour in the milk and mix quickly ; knead for five 
minutes, and set it to rise for half an hour. Add 
the chopped prunes and make up into one large, 
or two small loaves ; set them to rise again and 
bake in a moderate oven until done — one hour for a 

239 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

large loaf, thi-ee-quarters if made into small loaves — 
probably ; but this depends on the heat of the oven. 

Pumpkin Brown Bread. — Two cups of pumpkin 
juice, three cups of yellow cornmeal, three cups of 
ryemeal, half a cupful of molasses, one teaspoonful 
of salt, two cupfuls of milk, and one teaspoonful of 
baking soda. Mix these ingredients together, beat 
well, and turn into a buttered tin. Cover with 
buttered paper and steam for five hours. {San 
Francisco Call.) 

Pur^e of Vegetables. — Cook potatoes, carrots, 
onions, and turnips together in stock to cover ; 
season with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs. 
Press through a sieve, thicken with butter and flour. 
Cook together. Take from the fire, and add the 
yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little milk added. 

Radish Salad. — A good radish salad calls for three 
bunches of round red radishes. Put them in cold 
water in a refrigerator for an hour. Ten minutes 
before serving wipe them dry, and cut them in fine 
slices. Slice also two small onions. Put them in 
layers in a salad bowl with minced parsley, and dress 
them with oil and vinegar. {Chicago Journal^ 

Raspberry Omelette. — Beat the yolks of five eggs 
lightly with one teaspoonful of fine sugar ; put in two 
teaspoonfuls of corn-starch mixed with four table- 
spoonfuls of cream. Then add the whites of the 
eggs whipped stiffly. Cook in a frying-pan until set ; 
spread with raspberry jam. Finally sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and serve hot as a dessert. 

RavioUes Milanaises.— Make a good nouille paste 
240 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

with two ounces of flour and the yolks of four or 
five eggs and salt. Let it stand a little, and then 
roll out very thin. Chop up some mushrooms and 
fry slightly in butter ; thicken with spinach or brown 
sauce only. When cold put the mixture in Httle heaps 
on half of the rolled-out paste, wet the paste with a 
brush between the heaps ; double the paste over and 
press it to make it stick together ; then cut out with 
a pastry cutter, cutting along the lines between the 
heaps into squares. Cook these in boiling water and 
then leave them to drain ; add a good sauce — half 
brown, half tomato — and grated cheese. Serve. 

Red Pottage {Danish Recipe). — Well boil the fruit 
(red currants, raspberries, plums, or rhubarb), sweeten 
it, and add a Httle grated lemon rind. Pour through 
a colander to obtain the juice only. Put back the 
juice into the pan, and directly it boils stir in corn- 
flour previously dissolved in a little of the juice 
(one heaped dessertspoon of cornflour to half a pint 
of juice). Pour into a glass dish, lay on the top some 
blanched almonds cut into thin strips, and serve cold, 
with plenty of cream. 

Rice with Tomatoes. — Boil one cupful of rice in 
boiling salted water for twenty minutes, shake now 
and then, but do not stir it. Drain, and add a little 
milk, in which a beaten egg has been mixed, one tea- 
spoonful of butter, and a little pepper and salt. 
Simmer for five minutes, and if the rice has not 
absorbed all the milk, drain it again. Put the rice 
round a dish, smooth it into a wall, wash it over with 
the yolk of a beaten-up egg, and put it into the oven 

241 Q 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

till firm. Take half a bottle of tomato conserve, or 
the strained juice and pulp of seven tomatoes, season 
with a little salt and pepper, sugar, and half a chopped 
onion, stew for twenty minutes, then stir in one table- 
spoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of fine 
grated bread-crumbs. Stew for a few minutes to 
thicken, then pour the tomatoes into the dish in the 
middle of the rice, and serve very hot. 

Risotto alia Milanese. — Put a small chopped onion 
into a saucepan, with four ounces of butter, and a 
little pulp of white bread. Fry a light brown, remove 
the onions, and add two cupfuls of cooked rice. Stir 
for five minutes, add a glass of white wine, and by 
degrees a little broth, and a tea spoonful of saffron. 
Boil for forty minutes, adding broth from time to 
time. Before serving mix with it three ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Remove from the fire, stir 
well, and cover for a few minutes. Serve very hot. 

Savoury Eggs with Spinach. — Lay a thick layer of 
well-cooked spinach in the bottom of a shallow 
buttered dish, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
on this lay a sprinkling of grated cheese, and place 
upon the top a few small pieces of butter. On this 
put a thick layer of hard-boiled eggs cut in slices ; 
the eggs may be pounded instead of sliced. Place 
on this a few pieces of butter, and sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, finish with a thick coating of grated 
cheese, and more butter. Bake till it is a crisp 
brown, about fifteen minutes. 

Strawberry and Tomato Salad. — Select about half 
a pound of medium ripe, freshly-gathered, firm straw- 

242 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

berries, not too ripe. Remove the stems, and cut each 
in four. Keep on ice till required. Steep in boiling 
water three or four medium-sized ripe tomatoes, for 
a few minutes, and skin them quickly. Cut each 
tomato into half, remove the seeds, and squeeze out 
carefully some of the pulp, then cut the tomatoes into 
fine strips, and season with a very little salt, paprika, 
and lemon juice. About five minutes before the salad 
is required mix the strawberries carefully with the 
tomatoes, put them neatly into the salad bowl, sprinkle 
over them a little freshly ground pepper, and pour 
over just enough mayonnaise to barely cover the fruit. 
Place a crisp lettuce heart in the centre, and garnish 
the base with thinly-cut slices of cucumber. 

Toasted Marshmallows. — One tablespoonful of 
granulated gelatine, one cup of boiling water, one 
cup of sugar, the whites of three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and some macaroons. Dissolve 
the gelatine in boiling water, add the sugar, and, 
as soon as dissolved, set the bowl containing the 
mixture in a pan of ice- water ; then add whites 
of eggs and vanilla, and beat until the mixture 
thickens. Turn into a shallow pan, first dipped in 
cold water, and let it stand until thoroughly chilled ; 
remove from the pan, and cut into pieces of the size 
and shape of marshmallows, then roll in macaroons 
which have been dried and rolled. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 

"Tout Ensemble" Salad — Cream cheese, cherries 
(stoned), peanuts, currants, served on lettuce hearts 
with mayonnaise or French dressing. 

243 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Two Loaves of Bread. — Put three and a half pounds 
of flour (half a quartern) into an earthenware bowl, 
add half an ounce of salt ; mix well with the flour. 
Make a hole in the middle, and set it in a warm 
place (if it is cold weather). 

Take one ounce of yeast and one teaspoonful of 
sugar, and mix them in a small basin. If the yeast is 
good, it will soon become moist after the sugar is 
added. Put in two tablespoonfuls of flour, and mix 
to a smooth batter, with one quarter of a pint of 
warm water. Set it in a warm place, in front of the 
fire to rise ; it will take about five minutes. 

When risen, put it into the hole in the flour, and 
pour in one pint of milk, warmed by the addition of 
half a pint of hot water — it must be only new-milk 
warm ; test it with your finger. If it is too hot, it will 
kill the ferment in the yeast. Stir with a knife or a 
wooden spoon. Then flour your hands and knead 
it for ten minutes till all the flour is absorbed, and 
the dough is smooth and elastic, and not sticky ; some 
people prefer to knead it on a board. Cut three slashes 
across, and set the bowl in front of the fire on a 
stool, out of any draught. Cover it with a cloth, and 
let it rise till it has nearly doubled in bulk. Take 
the dough out of the bowl, scraping every bit off the 
sides, and cut it in half. Shape into loaves on the 
board, and put into greased loaf tins. The dough 
should half fill the tins, and touch the sides all round. 
Set them to rise in front of the fire for half an hour 
or three-quarters — the weather, and the temperature 

of the kitchen make such a difference, that there 

244 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

cannot be a fixed time, but the dough should be 
nearly level with the top of the tins when they are 
ready for baking. 

The oven should be of moderate heat ; not so hot 
as for pastry, but by no means slack. If the loaves 
are small, they may be done in fifty minutes, but an 
hour is the usual time. Sometimes a little longer may 
be necessary, so much depends on the temperature 
of the oven and the size of the loaves. Only experi- 
ence can teach the learner. Tap the loaf all round, 
and if the sound is sharp and clear, the loaf is done ; 
but if it be dull and thick, put it back for a few 
minutes. 

If the bread smells sour, when baking, the oven is 
not hot enough ; it should have a sweet wholesome 
smell. 

When the loaves are out of the oven, they should 
remain in a warm airy kitchen for five or six hours, 
till they are quite cool, before being put into the 
bread pan. 

Uufermented Brown Bread. — One cupful of rye 
meal, two cupfuls of corn meal, one cupful of white 
flour, half a teacupful of molasses, or sugar, and a 
teaspoonful of salt. Stir all these thoroughly together, 
and mix with about half a pint of sour milk ; in which 
a level teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been 
dissolved. Stir the batter as stiff as it can be worked 
with a spoon, and bake in a well-greased pan. Sweet 
milk and baking-powder may be used instead of 
buttermilk and soda. {Commoner.) 

Vegetable au Gratin. — Cook separately in salted 
245 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

water, shredded cabbage, green peas, asparagus, etc. 
Drain, season to taste, and arrange in alternate layers 
in a buttered baking-dish, season each layer with bits 
of butter and grated cheese. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, and bake for about an hour. 

Vegetable Ourry (i). — Mix one cupful each, of 
cooked carrots and turnips cut into dice, half a 
can of peas, one cupful of cooked Lima or kidney 
beans, reheat in brown sauce, season with minced 
onion, curry powder, a pinch of sugar and a little 
vinegar. Add a cupful and a half of cooked potatoes, 
cut into dice, simmer for twenty minutes and serve 
in a border of boiled rice. 

(2) Chop an onion finely, and peel and slice a sour 
apple. Cook for two minutes in butter, then add a 
pint each of carrot, turnips, celery cut finely, a heaped 
tablespoonful of curry powder, and a sauce made 
of two tablespoonfuls of flour, cooked in butter ; mix 
with a pint of milk, and cook until thick. Simmer 
for an hour and serve in a border of rice. 

Vegetable Galantine. — Slice finely two carrots, one 
small turnip, one medium-sized onion, and stew in 
just sufficient stock until tender. Then add half a 
pint of cooked green peas, two ounces of fine bread- 
crumbs, some pepper and salt, a pinch of cayenne, 
and a little ketchup or Gaffer sauce. Mix three ounces 
of semolina with a little milk, and when cooked 
add this, and mix well and press on to a dish in a 
shape, leaving a hole in the centre. Leave it to cool, 
then improve the shape, brush over with a glaze made 
from a teaspoonful of liquid aspic jelly, add two tea- 

246 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

spoonfuls of Gaffer sauce to darken it. Garnish with 
cold aspic, or the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, rubbed 
through a sieve, and the white chopped up with some 
parsley. Serve with lettuce and salad dressing. — 
Sidney Beard's Guide Book, " Order of the Golden Age." 

Vegetable Hash. — Chop coarsely, cold cooked cab- 
bage, parsnips and potatoes, and fry in butter, then 
moisten with hot water, and cook covered for five 
or ten minutes. Add salt and pepper. 

Very Light Buns. — Take a quarter of a peck of the 
finest flour, rub lightly into it three-quarters of a 
pound of fresh butter till it is like grated bread, a 
little more than half a pound of sugar, half a nutmeg 
grated, a small quantity of ground ginger, three yolks 
of eggs, and the whites beaten separately. Add to the 
eggs half a pint of thick ale yeast, a little brandy, 
or red wine. Make a hole in the flour, pour in the 
yeast and eggs, and as much warm milk as will make 
it into a light dough. Set it before the fire to rise 
for half an hour. Grease some patty-pans, fill with 
the mixture ; brush over the top of each wig \nth 
beaten egg. Put them into a quick oven for about 
thirty minutes. 

Walnut Croquettes. — Take one pound of cold 
mashed potatoes, three-quarters of a pound of cold 
carrots, half a pound of cold mashed haricots, half a 
pound of ground walnuts, some chopped parsley, 
one egg, pepper and salt if liked. Mix potatoes, 
haricots, and carrots well ; add one or two table- 
spoonfuls of water or good vegetable stock. Then 
add ground nuts and parsley. Bind with egg, form 

247 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

into croquettes, and fry in nutter (the mixture holds 
together pretty well without the egg). This recipe is 
very good for using up any cold vegetables in order 
to make a savoury breakfast or dinner the following 
day. — Nu-Era Recipes. 



CHEESE DISHES. 

Cheese and Oatmeal. — Two cupfuls of oatmeal, one 
cupful of grated cheese, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one teaspoonful of salt, and pepper. Cook the 
oatmeal as usual ; shortly before serving stir in the 
butter, and add the cheese, and stir until the cheese is 
melted and thoroughly blended with the cereal. The 
cheese should be mild in flavour and soft in texture. 
The proportion of cheese used may be increased if 
a more pronounced flavour is desired. 

Cheese Balls. — One and a half cupfuls of grated 
cheese, one tablespoonful of flour, the whites of three 
eggs, salt, and pepper, and cracker dust. Beat the 
whites of the eggs and the other ingredients. Make 
into balls and roll in cracker dust. If the amount of 
flour is doubled the mixture may be dropped from 
a spoon, and fried without being rolled in crumbs. 

Cheese Croquettes. — Three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
half a cupful of flour, two cupfuls of milk, the 
yolks of two eggs, one cupful of grated cheese, and 
salt and pepper. Make some white sauce, using the 
flour, butter and milk ; add the unbeaten yolks, and 
stir until well mixed, then add the grated cheese. As 
soon as the cheese melts remove from the fire, fold 

248 



CHEESE DISHES 

in pieces of cheese, and add seasoning. Spread in 
a shallow pan and cool. Cut into squares or strips, 
cover with an egg and crumb mixture, and fry in 
deep butter. 

Gnocchi Alia Romana. — Mix in a saucepan five eggs 
with three tablespoonfuls of flour, the rind of a lemon 
and two ounces of Parmesan cheese ; and by degrees 
one pint of milk. Season with salt, and place the sauce- 
pan on the fire. Mix until the paste is cooked, then 
spread the paste on a dish which has been rubbed 
with butter. Let it cool, and then cut it into small 
squares. Boil them up in a French fireproof dish ; 
spread a little butter and grated Parmesan cheese 
between each layer. Place in the oven for ten 
minutes and serve in the same dish. — Mrs. Ross, 
Leaves from a Tuscan Kitchen. 

Another Gnocchi. — Melt a quarter of a cupful of 
butter, add a quarter of a cupful each of flour and 
corn-starch, a pinch of salt, two cupfuls of boiling 
milk. Cook until smooth and thick. Take from the 
fire. Add the yolks of two eggs and half a cupful 
of grated cheese. Pour into a buttered shallow 
pan. Cool, cut in strips, roll in grated cheese, 
and brown in the oven. 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS WITHOUT EGGS. 

Apple Fruit Cake. — Take one cupful of sugar, 
half a cup of shortening, half a cup of raisins and 
dates, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, a quarter tea- 

249 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

spoonful of cloves, half a nutmeg, one and three 
quarter cups of flour, one cup of apple sauce, with 
one tablespoonful of nutter. Stir in the sauce the last 
thing and bake. 

Another Cake. — Take one cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of milk, two cupfuls of flour, five tablespoonfuls of 
nutter or butter, one heaped teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; sift into the flour, and one tablespoonful of 
boiling water. Flavour to taste with sultanas, caraway 
seeds or currants, and bake about three-quarters of 
an hour. 

Baked Bananas. — Peel and quarter four bananas, 
and put into a buttered baking dish with eight table- 
spoonfuls of water, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, four 
teaspoonfuls each of melted butter and lemon juice, 
and a sprinkling of salt. Bake slowly for half an 
hour or less, basting frequently. The lemon juice 
may be omitted. 

Another Recipe. — Remove half the peel from each 
banana, cover and bake half an hour, open side up. 
Remove the rest of the skin and serve with melted 
butter, to which a little hot cream may be added, or 
serve in the skins. 

Escalloped Bananas. — Peel and slice the bananas, 
and put into a buttered baking-dish in layers. Season 
each layer with salt, pepper, butter, and a little 
nutmeg. Cover with buttered crumbs, moisten with 
cream and bake, covered for half an hour, then 
uncover and brown. 

Chestnut Cream Sandwiches. — Peel, boil, drain, and 
mash some large French chestnuts ; rub them through 

250 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS WITHOUT EGGS 

a sieve and mix thoroughly with sweet cream, and a 
touch of salt or sugar, as is liked, and spread the paste 
on thin slices of fresh white bread, freed from crust 
and cut in round disks; then cover with another 
round. Use a biscuit cutter for shaping after the 
slices are cut. 

Curd Cheese. — Take two pints of new milk, curdle 
it either by slow heat, or by rennet, lemon juice, fig 
juice, or bruised nettles. Turn the curd into a cheese 
cloth or butter muslin (coarse canvas will do) pre- 
viously scalded, tie loosely and hang up to drain. 
After three or four hours tie again tighter. In twelve 
hours it is fit to eat, but if preferred it can be pressed 
and turned every day till as firm as ordinary cheese. 
— Mrs. C. W. Earle's Recipe. 

Curried Corn {Green). — (i) Open a tin of green 
corn, and drain off the liquid, and stand aside. Fry 
two large onions cut in rings in a pan with two ounces 
of butter. When nicely browned, add a dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder and a pinch of salt. Fry, 
stirring all the time, for five minutes ; then sprinkle 
in a dessertspoonful of flour, and fry for another 
five minutes. Great care must be taken not to burn 
the contents of the pan ; add the corn, coarsely 
chopped, and the juice of a large lemon, and cook 
for ten minutes longer. Serve with boiled rice, 
heaped around the dish, or separately, as Hked. 

Dood Park (Indian). — Rice, milk, sultanas, blanched 
almonds, cinnamon. Cook the rice in a saucepan 
with the milk to the consistency of thin porridge, add 
the sultanas (previously soaked for some hours) and 

251 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

almonds (chopped finely) and pieces of cinnamon ten 
minutes before serving. 

Doughnuts without Eggs. — Take one and a quarter 
cups of sugar, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful 
of bicarbonate of soda, two teaspoonfuls of melted 
butter, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ginger, nutmeg to 
taste, and flour to make as soft as can be handled. 
Don't make them too stiff ; fry in boiling nutter in a 
frying basket, and dip each one in a basin of boiling 
water which you can keep boiling on a stove con- 
veniently near. Prepare to dip it quickly just as soon 
as it is lifted from the hot nutter. It will not scale, 
and will keep moist much longer. 

Gnocchi of Semolina. — Bring half a pint of milk to 
the boil, sprinkle in two ounces of semolina (coarse) ; 
when it is off the boil add an egg and a little cheese 
(the egg may be omitted). Spread it on a dish to 
get cold. Then cut it into rounds with a cutter or 
a wine glass ; put the rounds into a fireproof dish 
with a little cream and some more grated cheese, and 
put a little butter on the top. Put in a hot oven for 
about five minutes, and serve immediately. 

Both recipes are from Mrs. C. W. Earle, Diet 
Difficulties and Helpful Hints. 

Good Plain Cake. — A cup of butter, a cup of molasses, 
a cup of brown sugar, a cup of sour milk, and a tea- 
spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, a teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, a teaspoonful each of nutmeg and cloves, 
half a pound each of raisins and currants, a quart flour, 
and half a teaspoonful of salt. Bake irt a slow oven. 

Green Corn Savoury. — (2) Boil two ounces of 
252 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS WITHOUT EGGS 

macaroni in salted water. Chop coarsely the con- 
tents of a tin of green corn, and toss it in a pan 
with an ounce of butter ; care must be taken not to 
burn it ; flavour very highly with cayenne pepper 
and salt. Place a layer of cooked macaroni in a deep 
dish that may be taken to table, and lay some of the 
corn on it ; repeat the macaroni and corn. Make 
a good white sauce by frying an ounce of flour in 
the same quantity of butter, and pour over it a pint 
of milk with which two tablespoonfuls of cream have 
been mixed and salt and pepper. Stir in two ounces 
of grated cheese, and pour over the macaroni and 
corn in the dish. Grate a layer of brown bread-crumbs 
over the whole, finally stewing the whole with grated 
cheese. Bake in a good oven until a delicate brown. 
Serve very hot. The macaroni may be omitted if not 
liked, and a double quantity of corn used instead. In 
this case the white sauce should be made a little 
thicker. — i and 2, Garden City Health Food Stores 
Recipes, Letchworth. 

Ice Cream without Eggs. — Take one quart of new 
milk, set it in a kettle of hot water, and when it comes 
to the boiling point, add two large tablespoonfuls of 
arrow-root, smoothly mixed with cold milk, and two 
teacupfuls of caster sugar. Stir until smooth and thick. 
When cool add one pint of rich cream, and flavour 
to taste. Put in a freezer and churn rapidly. 

Light "Wigs." — Make into a dough one pound and 
a half of flour, with half a pint of milk made lukewarm, 
mixed with a quarter of a pint of good yeast ; cover 
it up, and let it stay by the fire for half an hour. 

253 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Then add half a pound of sugar, half a pound of 
butter ; work this into the dough. Grease some small 
patty-pans and half fill them with the mixture. Use 
as little flour as possible in making up, and set to 
rise in front of the fire for half an hour. The 
oven must be hot ; the cakes will then rise very 
quickly to double their size. 

Nut Meat Mould {practically no cooking required). 
— Take a quarter of a pound of ground hazel kernels, 
a quarter of a pound of ground walnuts, half a pound 
of bread-crumbs, one ounce of onion, three-quarters of 
an ounce of nutter, and a quarter of a pint of tomato 
sauce. Melt the nut butter in a stewpan, add the 
onion and fry for five minutes (if fresh tomatoes 
are in season, chop up a small tomato and fry with 
the onion), then add tomato sauce to fried onion ; 
put in ground nuts and bread-crumbs, mix well ; turn 
into a mould, and leave till cold. Serve with salad, — 
Nu-Era Recipes. 

Plum Pudding without Eggs. — Take half a pound 
of raisins, half a pound of butter or nutter, half a pound 
of flour, two ounces of citron, or mixed peel finely 
chopped, two ounces of bread-crumbs, spice to taste ; 
a teaspoonful of baking powder if liked. Mix with 
milk, and boil for six hours. 

Stuffed Figs. — Remove the inside of steamed, or 
fresh figs, and mix the parts removed with chopped 
nuts moistened with a syrup of sugar and lemon juice, 
and stuff the figs with the mixture. 

The Simplest Nut Roast. — One pound of pine 
kernels (ground), two medium-sized tomatoes. Skin 

254 



COOL DRINKS 

the tomatoes, pouring boiling water over them, which 
makes it easy to peel them ; mash them, and thoroughly 
mix with the ground nuts. Put the mixture in a 
well-buttered pie dish, and bake in a rather hot oven 
until nicely browned. Turn out on to a hot dish, 
and serve with brown sauce or tomato sauce (a little 
sage or thyme may be included in the mixture). — 
Nu-Era Recipes. 

Vegetables en Casserole.— Mix one half cupful each 
of cooked peas, carrots, button mushrooms, and 
very small white onions, with enough white sauce 
to moisten them. Line a buttered mould with boiled 
rice. Fill the centre with the vegetable mixture ; 
cover with rice, and place in a steamer over hot water 
until heated through. Turn out on to a dish; pour 
over white sauce to which has been added some 
grated cheese and a pimento cut in small pieces. 



COOL DRINKS. 

Recipes from " The Providence Journal" U.S.A. 

Currant Shrub. — Extract the juice from two quarts 
of well-ripened red currants. Add one cup of granu- 
lated sugar to each pint of juice. Beat the mixture 
well, then dilute the juice with twice as much crushed 
ice and water as there is of currant juice. Grate a 
small amount of nutmeg into each glass. 

Egg Lemonade. — Beat one egg well, and add to it 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one of crushed ice, 
three of ice water, and sweeten to taste. Shake well, 

255 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

pour into glasses, fill with ice water, and sprinkle on 
the top nutmeg, or ground cinnamon. 

Ginger Spice Punch. — Stick about two dozen cloves 
into each of four oranges. Let them remain for two 
hours, then remove the cloves. Rub the yellow part 
of the rind from three lemons (after having washed 
them clean) with several lumps of sugar, then extract 
the juice from the fruit. Put the lumps of sugar into 
the juice, and add one tablespoonful of strained 
honey, half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
half a grated nutmeg, a pinch of ground allspice, 
and one cupful of flaked pineapple. Keep on ice 
until ready to serve, then turn into a punch bowl, 
or glass pitcher, adding the juice from the spiced 
oranges, a pint of ice water, and a pint and a half 
of ginger ale. While it is still effervescing, serve 
in small punch cups with straws. 

Grape Punch. — Prepare one pint of strong lemon- 
ade, add two chopped oranges, four tablespoonfuls 
of cold tea, a bunch of fresh mint, and a quart of 
grape juice ; mix thoroughly and place in the ice 
box until cooled ; pour in, just previous to serving, 
a pint of finely chopped ice ; serve from a large cut- 
glass pitcher into wide-rimmed glasses, decorating 
with tiny clusters of fresh grapes that have been 
dipped into a boiled fondant frosting. 

Lime Sherbet. — Squeeze the juice from four limes, 
strain, and add a cupful of fruit vinegar, two cups 
of sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinnamon. Cover, 
and place on ice for two hours, then pour in gradu- 
ally a cupful of iced tea. Add two sliced oranges 

256 



COOL DRINKS 

and the stiffly whipped whites of two eggs. Prepare 
a lime syrup, by boiling two quarts of water with 
one pound of sugar for fifteen minutes, adding the 
juice and grated rind of four limes. Remove from 
the stove and add to the other ingredients, pouring 
slowly over a block of ice that has been placed in 
a crystal punch bowl, and add small fruits. 

Linseed Drink. — A delicious hot weather drink. 
It is best made in a double pan, for the beverage is 
one requiring long and slow cooking. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of whole linseed, and put 
it into the cooker, with a quart of boiling water. Set 
it on the stove, and let it come to the boil. Then 
let it cook in the double pan for two to three hours, 
strain, and add to the liquid a quarter of a cupful of 
lemon juice, half a cupful of sugar, and a httle grated 
lemon rind. Serve very cold. If drunk while hot 
it is an excellent remedy for a cold. — A recipe from 
the Chicago Journal. 

Milk Flummery. — Break one egg into a large glass, 
beat well, add one tablespoonful of crushed ice, sugar 
to taste, and one-third of a pint of fresh milk. Whisk 
well (if you have no whisk, beat with a rotary egg- 
beater before putting in the ice), pour into small 
glasses, sprinkle with nutmeg, and serve. 

Nut Fudge. — Mix four cupfuls of brown sugar with 
three-fourths of a cup of rich milk, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and three ounces of unsweetened 
chocolate broken in small pieces. Set back on the 
stove until the chocolate is melted, then boil until 
it begins to thicken. 

257 R 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Take from the fire, beat until rather stiff, add two 
cupfuls of English walnut meat, or butternuts, and 
pour into a buttered shallow pan. When nearly cold 
mark into squares. 

A cupful of chopped figs may be substituted for 
nut meats if desired. ( Washington Herald^ 

Pineapple Frapp^. — Flake thoroughly with a silver 
fork a fine ripe pineapple. Sprinkle liberally with 
powdered sugar, and add one cucumber sliced very 
thin. Cut into small dice two limes or lemons and 
two large bananas, add half a pint of sweet cider ; 
mix thoroughly and set in the refrigerator. When 
ready to serve, add the whites of two eggs stiffly 
beaten, and two quarts of ApoUinaris water. Serve 
in glasses half-filled with shaved ice. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Put twelve quarts of juicy, 
ripe raspberries or Logan berries into a large stone 
jar, and pour over them enough pure cider vinegar 
(dilute if too strong) to barely cover the berries. 
Soak for thirty-six hours. Mash the berries a little, 
and strain off the liquid through a cheesecloth. To 
every pint of the liquid add a pound of loaf sugar, 
and boil for ten minutes. Then bottle and seal. 
Use two tablespoonfuls of the syrup to each glass 
of water, and put in two tablespoonfuls of crushed 
ice. This syrup can be used as the basis of a number 
of cooling drinks which the clever housewife may 
devise. 



258 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 



SUCGESSIONAL CROPPING IN SMALL 
GARDENS. 

By ^. C. Curtis. 

Comparatively few realise the continuity and quan- 
tity of good green vegetables that can be raised 
from a small plot of garden ground, therefore it seems 
well that a few pages should be devoted to a simple 
description of successional cropping, which is the 
basis of success for the small garden. 

First the gardener must remember that if he pro- 
pose to take crops continuously out of the earth 
that earth must be continuously supplied with soluble 
plant food. Therefore heavy dressings of fat, well 
matured stable manure, must be dug in as often as 
possible, and lime must be applied freely every third 
year. 

Lime is best given, after the ground has been 
trenched, at the rate of as much as half a pound to 
the square yard. It may either be in the form of 
ground chalk, or, better, slaked lime. We prefer to 
buy quicklime in sacks, and to make heaps of it over 
the ground, about a bushel of lime to a heap. Earth 
is turned over these heaps, and they are left to slake 
for a fortnight. At the end of that time the heaps 
are scattered evenly over the bed, and it is all forked 
in. A fortnight later it will be quite safe to sow. 

Lime applied in this way destroys all sorts of insect 
and fungoid pests, including club. It acts chemically 

259 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

on the constituents of the soil, releasing valuable 
plant food in a soluble form, and itself, though very 
slowly soluble, is invaluable for many crops, especi- 
ally peas and beans. 

Deep digging at every possible opportunity is abso- 
lutely essential to success where heavy cropping is 
pursued. And in dry weather the steady use of the 
Dutch hoe where possible is invaluable both in keep- 
ing weeds down and in preserving a friable moisture 
holding top to the soil. 

In making his plans for the year's work the gardener 
will at first consider what vegetables are desired by 
his household, and in what probable quantities; he 
will not strive for unduly early, or late crops, especi- 
ally if he employ but one man a day or two a' week, 
but he will try to have a useable amount of vegetables 
in hand, the year round, not wasting his ground 
either by excess or undue thrift of any one crop. 

Taking a small plot of ground of about one-tenth 
of an acre as our text, it will be the simplest way to 
describe one form of successional cropping which 
should freely supply a household of at least six people 
with vegetables the year through. But not with main 
crop potatoes, these are better and cheaper field- 
grown, and it is a waste of ground and labour to 
grow them. 

Plan I describes itself, and it will be seen to be 

divided into three main plots for successional cropping, 

each forty-one by twenty-two feet, and lettered A, B, 

and C. The cropping of these plots should be so 

arranged that year by year the scheme for one plot 

260 









1 


























^— . 












1 


~~' 


"^^ 














































TOOl fiHpn 
























































































































































A 
































































































































































































































FK 


A IV 


ES 










































































































































































































































































































































B 




























































































































t 




3 
















































.M 


' 


































































FRu'lT 


cordoIns 




























<-( 






























RU 




































RH 


UB 


AR 


3 
















SE 


AK 


AL 


i 


































































































































/ 


SP 


AR 


AG 


JS 






































































BG 


RD 


rV- 
ER 












































































































































































































































































































































HO 


FiSE 


RA 


3ISH 




















c 




























































































































Af 


ITIC 


HO 


<ES 

















































































































































Plan I. — A small Kitchbn Garden of about ^ Acre 

{From " The Small Garden Useful") 

Scale. — The ground divided into 2-foot squares 
261 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

may be moved forward to the next, ensuring a dif- 
ferent class of subject being grown on the ground 
in successive seasons, resulting in the least exhaustion 
of the ground. Of course in a garden of this size 
this is rather a counsel of perfection, difficult to 
reach, yet where the rule has to be broken, deep 
digging, manure and lime are used to minimise the 
evil. 
This succession may be expressed in a formula : 



First year 


. A 


B 


C 


Second year 


. C 


A 


B 


Third year . 


. B 


C 


A 



Supposing that our scheme of successional cropping 
has already been in operation, it must be remembered 
that the ground at the beginning of the year will be 
pretty fully occupied, and we shall point out the 
crops already in possession of the various plots as 
we discuss them month by month. Taking then 
Plan I as the text, we will proceed to briefly dis- 
cuss the year's routine, beginning with New Year's 
day. 

January 

Plot A. — Contains kale, spring broccoli, and leeks, 
a six-foot breadth of ground where savoys and couve 
tronchuda stood must be cleared and trenched and 
heavily manured as early in the month as possible, as 
onions are to come here, a good dressing of lime and 
soot forked into the top spit will do good. Nothing 

262 









A 30 X 19 FEET 


>■ 

i 

z 


TOOL 
SHED 

WITH 
GLASS 

ROOF 


HERBS 


SEED 
BED 


B 30 X 19 FEET 


FRAMES 


C 30 X 19 FEET 


8 RHUBARB 
10 SEAKALE 



Plan II.— Small Kitchen Garden of about ^ Acre 

(57 X 40 feet) 
263 



TABLE OF SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 
Each plot 22 X 41 feet. The rows of plants.= 4i feet. 







S 


TJ 




g 


■0 








XI a 




Followed 


■0 g 


u 


Followed 


Plot 


Crop 


sen 


Xl 


by 




1 


Next Season 






1 


Crop 


§"3 





by 


A 


Onions . . 
(6 rows) 


2-3 


8-9 


Spring Cab- 
bage 


8-9 


4-7 


Runner 
Beans 




Parsnip 


3 


ia-3 


(4 rows) 










{i row) 
















Salsify . , 


4 


10-3 








Early 




(i row) 












Potatoes 




Carrots 


4 


8-g 


Endive and 


8-9 


ri 






(2 rows) 






Chicory 




1 1-2 






Beet . . 


4 


8-9 












(2 rows) 
















Celery . . 


6 


10-3 












(2 double 
















rows) 
















Lettuce 
















(between) 














B 


Broad Beans 
{2 double 


12-3 


6-7 


Turnip 


7 


8-9 


Onions 




rows) 






Couve 


7 


ii-i 






Dwarf Peas 


2-3 


6-7 


Tronchuda 










and 
















Spinach 






Savoys 


7 


11-12 


Parsnip 




(between) 












Salsify 




2 rows 






Broccoli . 


7 


3-4 


Carrots 




Kidney 


4 


7 








Beet 




Beans and 






Chicory . 


7-8 


1 1-2 






Lettuce 
















(i row) 






Late Spring 


7 


4-S 


Celery 




Dwarf Peas 


4 


7 


Broccoli 










and 
















Lettuce 






Endive 


8 


lO-II 






(2 rows) 
















Peas(2rows) 


S 


7-8 


Leeks . . 


S 


10-3 






Leeks be- 
















tween 






Lettuce . 


8 


9 




C 


Runner 
Beans 
(i row) 


4 


7-10 








Broad Beans 




Early Pota- 


3 


6^ 


Cauliflower 


5 


9 






toes 






(i row) 










(7 rows) 






Broccoli . 
(i row) 

Brussels 
Sprouts 
(5 rows) 


S 
5 


g-io 
10-2 


Peas 



264 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

more can be done in this plot during the month, 
beyond blanching chicory which still stands in it. 

Plot B. — Contains Brussels sprouts ; if not already 
done during December, the ground from which 
runner beans and cauliflower and broccoli came 
last autumn, must now be trenched and manured, 
and a dressing of superphosphate of lime, two ounces 
to the square yard, should be forked into the top spit. 
If the weather be propitious two double rows of broad 
beans may be sown across this ground now. 

Plot 0. — Contains spring cabbage, parsnips, salsify, 
and celery, probably a row or two of chicory also, 
and may be conveniently left for a month or six weeks 
until all but the first are cleared away. 

Permanent Crops. — Seakale and rhubarb should 
have a few crowns of each covered up with fern or 
clean straw for blanching and to induce early growth. 

February 

Plot A. — If the onion bed was made last month, 
no further digging can be done here, but the onion 
ground must be prepared now, if the weather was 
impossible in January. 

Plot B. — This is a good month to plant broad beans 
if they are not already in, but if the weather is bad 
leave them till March, there is no sense in setting 
beans to rot in sodden soil. The Brussels sprouts 
must now go, and as they and the early potatoes have 
pretty well exhausted the ground, and have well paid 

for their manure, trench the ground well, and give 

265 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

a good dose of manure and lime also ; either as super- 
phosphate, two ounces to the yard, or as lime pure 
and simple if it has not been given for a couple of 
years. 

About the end of the month a sowing of dwarf peas 
may be made, if the weather be open. They should 
go thirty inches from the broad beans, and we know 
no better sort than the Little Marvel. Place eighteen 
inch wire netting along the row at the time of sowing, 
and run a row of spinach fifteen inches on the hither 
side of the peas. Continue to blanch chicory. 

Plot C. — By the middle of the month the crops still 
in this ground must be cleared away. The few roots 
of salsify and parsnip left should be stored in sand in 
a dry place, and the celery lafd in in the open, where 
the cook can easily get to it. Immediately this is done 
the ground must be trenched and heavily manured, as 
it is to bear two exhausting crops without any further 
help. In addition we like to fork kainit into the top 
spit, an ounce to every square yard, and find that if 
done in February, this does not interfere with the 
early growth of the potatoes, but helps them and the 
Brussels sprouts very mightily later on. 

Frames. — Make up the hot-bed about the middle of 
the month. 

Seed Bed. — Sow a little early lettuce, radishes, and 
if there be good conditions it may be worth while to 
sow early peas in the early border, besides spinach, 
at the beginning of the month. 

Permanent Crops. — Cover more seakale, and finish 
putting pots or boxes over the rhubarb. Tidy up the 

266 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

asparagus, and give a top dressing of five pounds kainit 
and fifteen pounds of superphosphate to a bed the 
size of that in the plan. 



March 

Plot A. — Plant or sow the onions in rows a foot 
apart as early in the month as possible. As the kale 
and early spring broccoli are used clear them quickly 
off the ground, and trench a six-foot breadth of ground 
next the onions, one and a half spits deep only, being 
most careful not to bring any old manure up to the 
top spit. At the bottom of the trench put a small 
dressing of manure and a dusting of kainit, and fork 
it in before returning the earth. Towards the end of 
the month sow one row of parsnips next the onions ; 
as parsnips are not in very great demand, this should 
be sufficient. Before sowing in this, and all, newly 
trenched ground, tread it well to consolidate it and 
make it firm, choosing a dry day for the purpose. 

Plot B. — Two rows of early peas may be sown this 
month, one row sown as soon as the next earlier 
peeps through. The rows should be of Little Marvel 
or some similar dwarf and early kind, placed thirty 
inches asunder, and spinach should be sown between 
the rows. 

If the broad beans are not in sow them at once. 

Plot 0. — Keep the ground hoed between the spring 
cabbage, and give them a slight sprinkle of nitrate of 
soda in showery weather. 

Plant seven rows of early potatoes (such as May 
267 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Queen) about the 20th, the rows should be about 
thirty inches apart, the potatoes a foot in the row. 

Permanent Crops. — Earth up the rest of the seakale. 
Dig a slight dressing of old manure into the artichoke 
ground and replant. 

Frames. — Sow tomatoes, leeks, Brussels sprouts. 
Autumn Giant cauliflower, autumn broccoli, lettuce 
(both dwarf and main crop), cucumber, vegetable 
marrow, mustard and cress, and if there is a frame 
to spare, sow forcing carrot, radish, and a sprinkle of 
forcing lettuce. 

April 

Plot A. — Sow salsify, one row, and two rows each 
of beet and carrots ; more can be sown of the last two 
if desired ; these should all be a foot apart. 

Plot B. — Sow one row of kidney beans about the 
middle of the month, sow dwarf second early peas 
(such as dwarf Marrow-fat) as soon as the previous 
sowing shows up, prick out lettuce between the rows, 
about thirty of a sort at a time. 

Plot B. — Earth up the potatoes as they require it. 
Clear up the two middle rows of spring cabbage, 
and open out a trench in the way of a celery trench, 
fork in a handsome dressing of old manure and re- 
turn the earth to within five inches of the level of the 
ground, in preparation for the Scarlet Runner beans. 

Frames. — Sow celery early in the month. Sprouts, 
cauliflower, broccoli, and leeks should be pricked out 
into boxes and gradually hardened off. Plant out 
lettuce from the frames. Pot up tomatoes. Towards 

268 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

the end of the month plant a couple of cucumber 
plants out, one under each light of the frame. Repot 
vegetable marrows. 

Seed Bed. — Sow winter and spring brassicas about 
the 7th. Make successional sowings of lettuce and 
radishes. 

May 

Plot A. — Keep weeded ; thin the parsnips to six 
inches, the other roots to single plants. 

Plot B. — Sow the two last rows of peas (such 
varieties as "Ne plus ultra" or Continuity) five feet 
apart, about ten days between the sowings, plant 
leeks out, between these rows in a shallow trench, 
with some old manure forked in at the bottom. Plant 
out more lettuce. 

Plot 0. — Earth up the potatoes early in the month 
for the last time, and the same day put out one row 
each of cauliflower and autumn broccoli between the 
rows, and five rows of Brussels sprouts, the plants 
should be thirty inches apart. 

Frames. — Prick out and harden off celery. Repot 
tomatoes and vegetable marrows. The tomatoes 
should be now moved to the glass-roofed tool-shed, 
keep them near the glass, and put the strongest out 
in large pots or boxes to remain there. 

Seed Bed. — Prick out the winter and spring bras- 
sicas, just a few plants more than will be required. 
Sow radish and lettuce. 

Permanent Crops. — Thin out the seakale shoots. 

269 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 



June 

Plot A.^^Finally thin carrots, salsify, and beet. The 
late Queen broccoli will now be done with, clear it off, 
and make two celery trenches eighteen inches wide 
at the top, and four feet apart, plant out double rows 
of celery in them and set lettuce between. 

Plot B. — Clear spinach and lettuce away as they are 
done with. 

Plot 0. — Set stakes to the runner beans. 

Frames. — Plant vegetable marrows out early in the 
month. Put the tomatoes out along fences or the 
edges of sunny paths about the 14th. 

Seed Bed. — Sow chicory, lettuce, radish, and a pinch 
of endive. 

July 

Plot A. — Keep weeded, water celery, and look out 
for celery fly. 

Plot B. — Clear off broad beans and early peas the 
moment they are done. Sow two rows of turnip, 
and put out couve tronchuda, savoy, kale, purple 
sprouting broccoli, early and late spring broccoli, as 
soon as room can be made for them. A row of 
chicory can either be sown or pricked out in this plot 
this month. 

Plot 0. — Dig the whole crop of potatoes without 
waiting for the haulm to die down, somewhere 
between the 10th and 20th, store the potatoes and 
tread the ground round the brassicas. 

270 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

Seed Bed. — Plant out lettuce and sow more. Sow 
endive and chicory, and about the 24th sow flower of 
spring cabbage. 

August 

Plot A. — Towards the end of the month the onions 
may be ready to harvest ; if so, get them up, also the 
carrots and beet, though the last may have to wait till 
September. Follow the onions with spring cabbage, 
and the carrots with chicory, planted out, and endive. 
The celery will probably be ready for a first slight 
earthing up. 

Plot B. — Clear the latest peas away, and immedi- 
ately follow them with endive, chicory, and lettuce 
from the seed bed. As soon as established give 
the lettuce a slight dressing of nitrate of soda, it 
makes all the difference to the quality of autumn 
lettuce ; the endive also will be improved by similar 
treatment. If desired a sowing of turnips may be 
made here at this time. 

Plot 0. — Keep this plot and the rest of the groundr 
clear of weeds ; use the Dutch hoe. 

Seed Bed. — Sow more spring cabbage, endive, and 
Tripoli onions. 

September 

Plot A. — Harvest onions, carrots, and beet, if not 
already done. Follow the onions with spring cab- 
bage, the roots with endive and chicory. Continue 
to earth up the celery, in many seasons the final 
earthing may be done by the end of this month. 

271 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Plot B. — Earth up the leeks with the hoe. 
Plot 0. — Keep this and the other plots well weeded. 
Frames. — Fill one frame with lettuce and endive. 
Seed Bed. — Prick out a few more dwarf lettuce and 
a few endive. Blanch endive, a few at a time. 



October 

Plot A. — Finish earthing up all celery. 
Plot B. — Keep weeded ; blanch endive. 
Plot 0. — Keep weeded. 
Frames.— Fill a second frame with endives. 



November 

Culture has now ceased for the growing crops, 
beyond keeping them weeded. Endive must be 
blanched, and the frames kept open as far as the 
weather will permit. Begin to blanch chicory, clean 
up rhubarb, seakale, and asparagus, and mulch the 
plants. 

December 

Plot B. — The turnips will be off the ground, so will 
the couve tronchuda and savoys before the end of the 
month, if possible trench the onion bed for next 
season. Clean up all weedy corners. Continue to 
blanch chicory and endive. 

This, or a slightly modified scheme, will be found 
to hold good for a smaller plot of ground, even in 
such a small plot as is sketched in Plan 11 the same 

272 J 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

methods will obtain. In this plan the asparagus has 
been sacrificed, so have artichokes, but the latter 
could be substituted for seakale, if desired. Beyond 
some cramping of the ground the plots will carry 
nearly as many, though shorter, rows as in the larger 
scheme. Possibly in Plot A the same number of 
rows could be grown by slightly contracting the space 
between the celery trenches, and by allowing only 
nine inches between the rows of root crops. This 
is perfectly sound practice if only care is taken to thin 
the plants so that those in adjacent rows do not come 
opposite each other, but opposite the centre of the 
intervals between their neighbours. 

In Plot B one row of peas would have to be 
sacrificed, and in Plot C one row of potatoes and 
one of Brussels sprouts must go, but there will be 
plenty of vegetables for a family of four, and prob- 
ably enough potatoes to last till Christmas. 

This scheme of successive cropping will be found 
to be sound roughly south of the Trent, but for 
northern and colder districts it would have to be 
modified. With some modification as to the time 
of sowing, Plots A and C would broadly stand as 
arranged, but Plot B would have its times of sowing 
much later, the peas would have to be at least three 
feet six inches apart, to make room for the winter and 
spring greens, which would have to go out between 
the rows before the peas were off the ground, and 
it is probable that all brassicas for winter and early 
spring would be better sown in a cold frame. 

But when all is said, this is only one of several 
273 5 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

possible schemes, and every gardener as he learns 
his subject will be able to adapt it to his special soil, 
climate, and household needs. 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES. 

Extracts from a Lecture by W. F. Giles {of Messrs. 
Sutton & Sons, Reading). 

Although the English gardener could grow these 
vegetables as well as the French and German, many 
English cooks have probably never heard of some 
of these, for the simple reason that they are so 
seldom asked for, and therefore there is little oppor- 
tunity of learning about them. Of course the first 
question usually asked is, " Can such be grown in 
England ? " And we assure inquirers there is no 
difficulty at all in the cultivation. Many can be 
grown entirely in the open air, whilst those which 
require shelter do not need much heat. Vegetables 
now play a very important part in our everyday life, 
and during the past generation or two have been so 
much improved, that there is now a varied assortment 
at our disposal at all seasons of the year. It is some- 
what remarkable however, that, considering the large 
number of different types which are suitable for 
cultivation in countries with a temperate climate, only 
a small proportion are commonly grown in all, some 
of the remainder being perhaps largely grown in one 
country, and practically unknown in another. Even 
in the commoner kinds of vegetables different nations 

274 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

have their peculiar fancies. For instance, take 
potatoes. In this country we prefer white-fleshed 
sorts, which will cook floury, whilst in France yellow- 
fleshed kinds, which have a close, waxy texture, 
are more generally liked. Again, practically every 
Englishman prefers the delicious marrow-fat peas 
with wrinkled seeds, but on the Continent the small 
rounded sorts are still very largely grown for the 
" Petits Pois," although where the marrow-fats have 
been introduced they are much appreciated. In this 
country also scarlet runner beans are very much 
liked, but they are seldom, if ever, used in France, 
although acres of dwarf beans are grown, the small 
pods of which are served up whole. Then in cab- 
bages, whilst we most appreciate the tender, conical- 
headed kinds, in America the coarser Drumhead or 
fiat-headed types are almost exclusively grown in 
some parts, and on the Continent it is rarely served 
up at all as a vegetable. The American specially 
enjoys sweet corn or maize, squashes, and wax-pod 
beans ; the German, kohl-rabi and celeriac ; the Italian, 
his finocchio or Florence fennel ; the Spaniard, his 
capsicums ; whilst in France large quantities of globe 
artichokes, aubergine or egg plant, chicory, salsify, and 
other varieties are used, which are, however, not 
generally popular in the other countries referred to. 
Even amongst what are usually looked upon as 
English vegetables there are many types which are 
almost unknown to the public in general, although of 
course they are familiar to the majority of gardeners. 
Such as yellow tomatoes, custard marrows, asparagus 

275 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

kale, white sprouting broccoli, couve tronchuda, mer- 
cury (Good King Henry), spinach-beet, are a few 
examples, and I shall hope to include some of them 
in my remarks. 

Aubergine or Egg Plant. — There are several types 
of fruit of the aubergine ; some are quite white, and of 
the shape of an egg, but they are mostly only used 
for decoration or garnishing. The round and long 
fruited dark purple are those used for culinary pur- 
poses, and they may be cooked in several ways ; the 
fruit may be stuffed with chopped meat, egg, mush- 
room, &c., and herbs, and baked. 

Bush Marrows (Tender and True). — Generally speak- 
ing the majority of marrows are of a trailing habit, 
but there are several which are known as " Bush " 
marrows, and these throw out no runners at all. 
Where space is limited these Bush- varieties are very 
useful, but naturally they will not keep up a supply 
like the trailing types, which produce fruit all along the 
vines. In some parts of Bedfordshire the long white 
and long green fruited Bush marrows are grown for 
market purposes, but the round fruited kind (Tender 
and True) are a newer introduction. This is a very 
prolific sort, producing several fruits at a joint, and if 
cut when young they make a very nice dish. 

Capsicum. — This plant is closely alHed to the chilli, 
and is grown in much the same way as the egg plant. 
There are various types of capsicums and chillis ; the 
pods of some large kinds which are fleshy are used as 
vegetables in some countries, especially Spain and 
America. In the former country it is largely in 

276 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

demand, and although it was introduced into Naples 
by the Spaniards in the sixteenth century, its use in 
Italy has not spread very much farther. When the 
fruits are used as a vegetable they are picked green, 
and after the seeds have been taken out they are filled 
with a stuffing made of meat, herbs, bread and 
crumbs, and are then baked. They can also be 
partly boiled, and afterwards baked. The long 
narrow fruits which one often sees in pickles are 
forms of chilli, and sometimes the dried pods are 
ground for cayenne pepper. The real cayenne 
pepper, however, appears to be made from Capsicum 
baccatum or bird pepper. 

Celeriac is a form of celery in which the root has 
been developed instead of the leaf-stalk. It has been 
largely grown in Germany for a long time, and is 
there used both as salad and a cooked vegetable. 
It is grown in much the same way as celery, except 
it does not require to be put into trenches or 
earthed up. In the autumn the roots are ready 
for use ; and abroad it is often the practice during 
growth to break off the lower leaves, which is 
supposed to induce better growth and size in the 
roots. To cook them the roots are peeled and 
quartered, and boiled till tender, and served up in 
the same way as beetroot, or they may be sliced raw, 
and fried in butter till nearly brown. 

Chicory when blanched is largely used for salad, 
and is very wholesome ; it is also cooked as a vege- 
table, in a similar manner to seakale. 

Chow-Ohow or Chinese Cabbage.— It has the ap- 
277 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

pearance of the Cos lettuce. This vegetable is in 
season in the autumn or early winter. It requires 
no heat. 

Climbing French Beans. — This type of plant grows 
almost or quite as late as the ordinary scarlet 
runner, but it has foliage like that of the dwarf 
French bean, and with the same kind of smooth pod, 
They can supply tender pods after the dwarf beans 
are over. There are several varieties of this class ; one 
called the Earliest of AH can be gathered as early as 
July, but probably Tender and True is the most 
useful if only one is grown, as this bears so abun- 
dantly. The pods should be cooked in the same way 
as dwarf beans. 

Couve Tronchuda or Portugal Cabbage belongs to 
the Cabbage tribe, and is a plant in which the large 
midribs have been much developed. It is a delicious 
vegetable, quite easy to cultivate, and comes into use 
in the autumn and early winter ; this plant has been 
highly praised by those who have tried it. 

Drumhead Kale. — This is another type of kale not 
much known ; instead of producing leafage or shoots 
like most kales, this forms a head, and it has large 
midribs, which are delicious when boiled ; it 
partakes of the flavour of seakale. The cultivation 
is the same as for ordinary kales ; this variety comes 
into use late in the autumn. 

FinoccMo or Florence Fennel is one of the favourite 
dishes of the Italians, and around Naples it is grown 
by the acre. Generally speaking, the plant has a 
slight resemblance to celery, and is used in much 

278 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

the same way ; the flavour, however, is sweeter than 
celery ; in fact it has a little taste of aniseed about it. 
This finocchio differs from the fennel largely used for 
fish sauce, &c., and is eaten raw as a salad, or cooked 
and served in the same way as is usual with celery. 

Garden Swedes. — There are two forms, known as 
the white-fleshed garden swede and the yellow-fleshed 
garden swede, which are much superior for table 
purposes. They do not grow to so large a size as the 
field types, have no coarse neck at the top of the root, 
and the flavour is less strong. To those who like 
swedes I would strongly recommend these. They can 
be sown from April onwards, and should be grown in 
much the same way as turnips. 

Globe Artichokes are grown plentifully in Italy, and 
can, with care, be grown in England. As I have noted 
in the following chapters, they can be blanched in the 
same way as the cardbon, which is closely allied to 
the artichoke ; the stalks are blanched from October to 
March somewhat in the manner of celery, and when 
well cooked it makes an excellent dish. Abroad the 
cardoon is much in demand, and is served in a variety 
of ways. 

Eohl-rabi belongs to the Cabbage family, in which 
the stem has been induced to form a bulb. For many 
years large coarse types have been grown in this 
country for cattle food, but the tender and fine leaved 
forms have, until recent times, been little cultivated 
on this side of the Channel. The bulbs should be 
used when they are about the size of an orange. 

Mercury or Good King Henry is very well known 
279 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

in some parts of England, especially in the Lincoln- 
shire district, where it is sometimes called Lincoln- 
shire asparagus. It is a perennial, and proves itself 
to be a very useful plant. 

Orache or Mountain Spinach is another plant which 
produces much leaf, and which is used in the same 
way as the ordinary spinach. There are white and 
red leaved varieties, and these reach a height of several 
feet. The plant is easily cultivated. 

Poir^e or Swiss Chard. — This would be in season 
from late summer until the early frosts cut it down, or 
the season may be extended by lifting the plants and 
storing them. 

Petits Pois. — The small -podded, round -seeded 
sorts such as Earliest Blue are those used, although 
there is no reason why the small seeds of almost any 
kind should not do equally well. The pods, however, 
of the fine English marrow-fats would have to be 
gathered very young indeed, or the seeds would 
be too large. There are several ways of preparing 
" Petits Pois " according to the flavour desired. (See 
Recipes.) 

I am sure when these vegetables are more known, 
they will be as much liked as those with which we are 
more familiar, and we are much indebted to Messrs. 
Sutton & Sons for not only the information about 
them, but the fact that the plants have been fully 
tested by them as amenable to cultivation in England, 
and that the seeds can be obtained from this firm. 

Salsify, or, as it is sometimes called, the vegetable 
oyster, is a plant producing a long fleshy taproot, 

280 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

which is entirely buried in the ground. Salsify is 
cooked in various ways. 

Scorzonera is a plant somewhat resembling salsify 
in character, but differs from it in the leaf and the 
colour of the skin, which is nearly or quite black. The 
cultivation and soil is the same for it as for salsify, 
and the roots should be cooked in the same way. 

Spinach-Beet, another member of the beet family, 
is known as the " perpetual " or spinach-beet. It is a 
very useful plant, and if sown in the spring and 
summer, much in the same way as beet, continues 
to send up young foliage all through the autumn and 
winter. The foliage is used exactly like spinach, and 
can be had when ordinary spinach is not procurable. 
It is not necessary to deeply dig the ground, as it is 
only the foliage which is used. Those who are fond 
of spinach would do well to grow this for winter and 
spring supplies. 

Stachys Tuberifera is a curious little vegetable, and 
has only been introduced into Europe from China or 
Japan during the past few years ; its common name is 
Chinese artichoke ; the tubers are used either boiled 
or fried, and they have a nutty flavour. 

Sugar Corn or Maize. — This plant, a form of maize, 

is very easy to grow in this country ; it makes a 

delicious dish, and I am surprised it is not more 

often used. Even when we have short, or poor, 

summers the earliest varieties seem to do very well 

here, and reach the stage at which they should be 

cooked, although they would not often ripen their 

seeds here, but they will not stand frost at all. 

281 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Sugar Peas (Mangetout). — These are cultivated in 
precisely the same way as the ordinary type. They 
have no tough membrane inside, consequently they 
are what is usually termed " stringless," and as such 
are cooked whole. The pods of the best varieties are 
usually constricted, instead of being smooth and flat, 
and show the seeds through. The plants grow to 
various heights, but those attaining six feet or so give 
the best pods. The pods should be gathered when 
fairly young — that is before the seeds are much deve- 
loped — boiled whole, and served up with melted 
butter. 

Wax-pod Bean is another type of bean, known as 
Butter bean. The pods are usually yellow or whitish, 
and are tender, without strings, and if gathered fairly 
small and cooked whole are very nice. Should the 
pods be too large to cook whole, they should be 
broken across in two or three pieces — not slit with 
a knife. The culture is the same as for dwarf and 
runner beans. 

White Sprouting Broccoli. — Although the purple 
sprouting broccoli is known to all, the white sprout- 
ing is not so familiar. It is cultivated in the same 
way, and during March produces a large quantity of 
small and tender white sprouts. The plant is hardy 
in most seasons, and the young sprouts have a very 
agreeable, mild flavour. 

Winter Radish is a very useful plant. The ordi- 
nary kind of radish is of little use after it is full 
grown, but the class now referred to remains in 
condition for a long time. Probably the best type is 

282 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

that known as the Chinese rose colour. The seeds 
are sown about August, and although the roots will be 
ready by October, they can be left in the ground till 
wanted, or dug up and stored in sand. They grow 
larger than the ordinary radishes, and are entirely 
buried in the ground, and even when full grown 
remain solid and juicy. 

Witloef is largely grown around Brussels, and is 
preferred for cooking to chicory, although the smaller- 
leaved kinds do equally well for salading ; this can be 
had in season from October to the following spring. 
It is this plant which is often served in Paris 
restaurants under the name of "endive," but it is of 
course different from endive as we know it. 



283 



HINTS ON VEGETABLE COOKING 
IN BAGS 

The following vegetables can be cooked with ad- 
vantage in paper bags by those who like this mode 
of cooking : 

Jerusalem artichokes, broad beans, sprouts, carrots, 
cauliflower, celeriac, celery, cucumber, endive, chicory, 
French beans, seakale, mushrooms, parsnips, potatoes, 
tomatoes, vegetable marrow. 

These must in each case be washed, trimmed, and 
prepared in the same way as for ordinary cooking, 
duly seasoned and placed with a little water, and in 
some cases butter as well, in a grease-proof paper bag 
(sealed up), and put in a moderately-heated oven on 
an iron or wire grid, not a solid shelf, such as is usually 
found in coal-heated ovens. The heat thus reaches 
the contents of the bag from all sides and the top and 
bottom. From fifteen to thirty minutes should be 
allowed to cook any kind of vegetables ; some will 
take even less time, and some take more. When 
paper bags are not available, use pure white paper, 
brush over with oiled butter on one side and wrap 
the vegetables in the paper, buttered side inwards. 
Care must be taken to see that the ends of the paper 
are carefully sealed up ; for this reason, paper bags 
are more convenient, being easier to seal up. — C. 
Herman Senn, How to Cook Vegetables. 



Printed by Ballantvne, Hanson ^ Co. 
at Paul's Work, Edinburgh 



/u 



<; i 



GARDENING. 



WORKS BY A. C. CURTIS. 

Large post 8vo. 3s. 6d. net each. 
With a Coloured Frontispiece, i6 Illustrations, and several Plans. 

The Small Garden Beautiful. 

Standard. — " No better Uttle book could be desired by the amateur 
gardener, be he interested in vegetables or flowers." 

With 4 Illustrations and 2 Plans. 

The Small Garden Useful. 

Field. — " There arc scores of books which treat on tbe management of a 
kitcben garden, but we do not know of one that is more likely to prove a real 
help to the amateur who wants to know or to the professional who requires to 
be reminded than this ... a safe and sympathetic guide." 

With 1 06 Illustrations. Large post Svo. 6s. net. 

Common Weeds of the Farm and Garden. 

By Harold C. Long, B.Sc. (Edin.), and John Percival, M.A,, F.L.S. 

Mark Lane Express.—" A comprehensive book dealing with the 
damage done by weeds, their distribution, prevention, and eradication . . . 
the book possesses great interest for all connected with the land in any 
capacity." 

3rd Edition. Small demy Svo. 3s. 8cl. net. 

Hardy Ornamental Flowering Trees and Shrubs. 

By A. D. Webster. 

Author of " Practical Forestry," " Hardy Coniferous Trees," &c. 

Journal of Horticulture.—" We commend the book on its 
undoubted merits as a reference work and guide." 



Crown Svo. 6s. net. 

The Book of Flowers. 

By Katharine Tynan and Frances Maitland. 

•»• An attractive gift-book for all who love flowers and flower-lore. The 
flower names— old and new— are grouped under the four seasons, and with 
each are given descriptions of the flowers and their supposed properties, and 
the legends connected with them, illustrated from poets and prose writers. 



London: SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



COUNTRY LIFE. 



By RICHARD JEFFERIES. 
The Gamekeeper at Home ; or, sketch^ of Natural History 

and Rural Life. 
Witli Illustrations. Crown 8yo. 3s. fid. Also Pocket Edition. Fcp. 8vo. I9.net. 

Round about a Great Estate. crown svo. 8». 

Wild Life in a Southern County. Crown svo. e*. 

The Amateur Poacher. crown svo. ss. ea. 

Edited by J. A. OWEN. 

Woodland, Moor and Stream : Being the Notes of a Naturalist 

3rd Edition. Crown Svo. 68. Also Pocket Edition. Fcp. Svo. 18. 
Forest Tithes : and other studies from Nature. Crown Svo. Ss. 

All the Year with Nature. By p. anderson graham. 

Crown Svo. 58. 

A Year in the Fields. selections from the writings of 

With Illustrations. Crown Svo. 6s. JOHN BURROUGHS. 

By Mrs. C. W. EARLE. Small demy Svo. 78. 6cl. each. 

Pot-Pourri from a Surrey Garden. 

With an Appendix by Lady CONSTANCE LYTTON. agth Edition. 

More Pot-Pourri from a Surrey Garden. Impression. 
A Third Pot-Pourri. 2nd Edition. 

Letters to Young and Old. Smaii demy svo. 7s. eci. net. 
Memoirs and Memories. with 4 Portraits 

Large demy Svo. 10a. 6cl. net. 

By JOHN HALSHAM. Crown Svo. ss. net each. 
LoneWOod Corner : a countryman's Horlions. 
IdlehurSt : a journal kept in the Country, and. Edition. 

By HORACE G. HUTCHINSON. 

Nature's Moods and Tenses. with 32 illustrations. 

Small demy Svo. 7s. 6d. net. 
AcADBHV. — " A charming fireside companion. Nature lovers will find every 
phase of country life touched upon." 

When Life was New. Large post svo. es. net 

*^* These studies and sketches are vividly reminiscent of the author's own 
boyhood, and his outdoor life, when he laid the foundation of his intimate 
acquaintance with nature. 

London : SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



The Waterloo Library. 



Crown 8yo. 3s. 6cI. each Volume. 

The Brass Bottle. 

By F. Anstey. With a Frontispiece. 

The Major's Niece. 

By George A. Birmingham. 

Notes and Jottings from Animal Life. 

By Frank Buckland. 

The Cruise or the " Cachalot." 

By Frank T. Bdllen. With 8 FuU-p^e Illustrationj and 
a Chart. 

The Log of a Sea- Waif. 

By Frank T. Bullen. With 8 Full-page Illustrations. 

Peter's Mother. 1„ „ „ 

T-v u 1- r --n J> ^y **"• Henry de la 

Deborah or 1 od s. ^ pasture 

Adam Grigson. J (^ady cli.kord). 

Jess. 

By H. Rider Haggard. With 12 Full-page Illustrations. 

Brazenhead the Great. 

By Maurice Hewlett. 

The Gamekeeper at Home. 

By Richard Jefferies. With numerous Illustrations. 

The Amateur Poacher. 

By Richard Jefferies. 

The Four Feathers. 

By A. E. W. Mason. 

The Broken Road. 

By A. E. W. Mason. 

The Voyage of the " Discovery," 

By Captain Robert F. Scott, C.V.O., R.N. 2 Volumes, with 
Illustrations. 

Early Victorian : a Village Chronicle. 

By S. G. Tallentyre. 

*f* Other Volumes to follow. 

London : SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



At all Booksellers and Bookstalls. 

Smith, Elder & Co/s 
New Is. Net Series. 

1. Deeds that Won the Empire. 

Dr. W. H. Fitchett. 

2. The Cruise of the " Cachalot " Round the 

World after Sperm Whales. Frank T. BuUen. 

3. Fights for the Flag. Dr. W. H. Fitchett. 

4. The Log of a Sea Waif. Frank T. Bullen. 

5. The Gamekeeper at Home, Richard jefferies. 

6. A Londoner's Log Book. 

Rt. Hon. G. W. E. Russell. 

7. The Sowers. H. S. Merriman. 

8. Jess. H. Rider Haggard. 

9. Vice Versi. F. Anstey. 

10. Woodland, Moor, and Stream. j, a. Owen. 

11. The Tale of the Great Mutiny, 

Dr. W. H. Fitchett. 

12. Sixty Years in the Wilderness. Sir Henry W.Lucy. 

13. A Vision of India. Sidney Low. 

14. The Defence of Plevna. Capt. F. w. von Herbert 

with an Introduction by General Six Jokk Fkehch, k.cu.g., k.cb., etc 

15. The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes. 

A. Conan Doyle. 

16. Nelson and His Captains. Dr. w. h. Fitchett 

1 7. With Edged Tools. Henry Seton Merriman. 

18. The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes. 

A. Conan Doyle. 

19. The Exploits of Brigadier Gerard. 

A. Conan Doyle. 

20. Wellington's Men. Dr. W. H. Fitchett. 

London: SMITH, ELDER & CO., IJ Waterloo Place, S.W. 



COMivRVATlON 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000677249 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND 
THE COOK 



The Kitchen Garden 
and the Cook 

An Alphabetical Guide to the Cultivation 

of Vegetables 

With Recipes for Cooking Them 



COLLECTED AND ARRANGED BY 

CECILIA MARIA PEARSE 

AUTHOR OF "THE ROMANCE OF A GREAT SINGER" 



LONDON 
SMITH, ELDER to" CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE 

[All rights leserved] 



-due 
TX 



Xtx 



Printed by Ballantvne, Hanson 6* Co. 
at the Ballantyne Press, Edinburgh 



FOREWORD. 

My thanks are due to all those who have allowed 
me to quote from them in compiling this book. For 
permission to use some of their recipes I am indebted 
to Mrs. C. W. Earle ; George Savage & Sons, The 
Garden City, Letchworth ; Dr. Josiah Oldfield's 
Fruitarian Diet; Olive Green's How to Cook Vege- 
tables ; Mr. C. Herman Senn's How to Cook Vegetables ; 
Mrs. Ross's Tuscan Kitchen ; and Mr. Sydney Beard's 
Order of the Golden Age ; while the extracts from the 
lecture by Mr. W. F. Giles are given by permission 
of Messrs. Sutton & Sons. 

Most of all, however, I owe thanks to Mr. A. C. 
Curtis, author of The Small Garden Beautiful and The 
Small Garden Useful, for cultural directions and for 
his great help in general revision of the whole book. 

CECILIA MARIA PEARSE. 
November 1913. 



CONTENTS 



The Kitchen Garden and the Cook — Culture 

AND Recipes 

Salad Plants and Salads 
Miscellaneous Sauces .... 
Miscellaneous Soups .... 
Miscellaneous Dishes .... 

Cheese Dishes 

Cakes and Puddings without Eggs 

Cool Drinks 

Successional Cropping in Small Gardens 

Little Known Vegetables 

Hints on Vegetable Cooking in Bags . 



I 
189 
207 
213 
225 
248 
249 

255 

259 

274 

284 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN 
AND THE COOK 

In preparing vegetables care should be given to 
cleanse them by washing them in cold salted water, 
but they should not be made sodden by long im- 
mersion. Fresh vegetables should be cooked the 
day of gathering, and one cannot be too careful 
about all tinned vegetables, especially tomatoes, mush- 
rooms, and lentils. All green vegetables should be 
removed from the water as soon as cooked, and well 
drained. To avoid any offensive smell caused by 
cabbage or other greens, put a piece of bread or 
toast with them while cooking ; this will absorb the 
odour. All vegetables should be served very hot. 

GLOBE ARTICHOKE {Cynara Scolymus. Composites). 

This is a perennial plant, but is apt to deteriorate 
under cultivation ; therefore, if possible, a third of the 
plantation should be renewed yearly. It does not 
always stand our cold and damp winters, though it 
may be considered hardy in the south of England. 

The Globe Artichoke does not always come true to 
seed, so that it is better to renew or start a planta- 
tion by means of rooted suckers, which the plant 

I A 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

freely throws off. If seed be selected it should be 
sown in a mild hotbed in March and planted in its 
permanent bed in May. 

A light, rich loam is preferred, heavy soils holding 
too much damp for this somewhat delicate plant, 
which requires perfect drainage yet plenty of water 
during the growing season. A sunny position should 
be chosen for the bed, the ground should be trenched 
and well manured, and the plants be put out in April 
about three feet apart according to the variety. 

Keep the soil stirred with the hoe, and give plenty 
of water during drought, with occasional doses of 
weak liquid manure. In giving manure water to this, 
as to all other subjects, it should be extremely dilute, 
and should be applied during showery weather, or, 
if in dry weather, should be preceded and followed 
by copious watering with plain water. 

In the autumn the plants must be trimmed up, and 
winter protection given in the shape of straw or fern 
covering. 

The crop comes in over a longish period, beginning 
in late June with the older plants and going on into 
the Autumn with the plants put out in the spring. 
The flowering heads should be gathered when they 
are about three-parts grown, and well before they open. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE {Helianthus tuberosus. 
Compositce). 

This perennial sunflower gives, perhaps, the heaviest 
yield per square yard of any garden crop. It is of 

2 



ARTICHOKE 

the easiest culture, and may be grown in the same 
plot of ground year after year, an advantage in its 
case, as once in the ground it is very difficult to get 
rid of it. The ground should be prepared in late 
winter by trenching in a moderate quantity of manure. 
The tubers may be planted any open day in February 
or March in rows three feet apart, the sets eighteen 
inches in the rows. The rest of the culture simply 
consists in hoeing up weeds; the crop may be left 
in the ground and dug as required from September 
onwards, but it should be all cleared up before the 
tubers start to grow in March. 

CHINESE ARTICHOKE {Stackys tuberiferd). 

These require exactly similar treatment to Jeru- 
salem Artichokes, except that the plants need be only 
a foot to fifteen inches apart. They withstand frost 
well, and may stay in the ground and be dug as 
wanted. 

DISHES. 

Boiled Artichoke (Jerusalem). — Wash well, as many 
artichokes as will be required,, then put them in 
plenty of fresh clean water to cover and peel them 
rapidly, keeping them under water during the process, 
and then plunging them in a bowl of cold water till 
all are finished. 

This is very important, as artichokes turn black if 
exposed to the air without their skins, even after they 
are cooked. Every one knows the disgusting appear- 

3 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

ance a dish of black artichokes floating in their milk 
and water presents. This can be avoided by care- 
fully following these directions. 

Put them in a saucepan of cold water, sufficient to 
cover them well, add one tablespoonful of salt, allow 
twenty minutes to half an hour after they reach 
boiling point. Drain, and arrange on a drainer in 
a very hot vegetable dish, pour over a good white 
sauce {see White Sauce) immediately, being careful to 
mask each artichoke with the sauce, thus protecting it 
from the air. If properly cooked the sauce will cling 
to the vegetable and not drop to the bottom of the 
dish. If the artichokes have to wait, draw the sauce- 
pan to one side and keep them in the water till 
wanted. 

Pur^e of Jerusalem Artichokes. — Melt a heaped 
tablespoonful of butter, add a sliced onion, one bay 
leaf, three pounds of Jerusalem artichokes washed, 
pared, and cut into slices. Cook slowly for ten 
minutes, add gradually one cupful of milk. When 
the vegetables are thoroughly cooked, add another 
cupful of milk, salt and pepper to season. Serve on 
toast or boil until tender in milk to cover, drain and 
press through a colander, and reheat, seasoning with 
salt and pepper. 

Baked Artichokes. — Peel and trim one dozen arti- 
chokes, and season with salt and pepper. Put into a 
buttered baking-dish and bake for half an hour. 
Baste frequently with butter, and serve in the same 
dish. 

Another Method. — Wash and pare the artichokes, 

4 



ARTICHOKE 

put into cold water, with one tablespoonful of salt, 
boil till tender, cut into slices and put into a baking- 
dish. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese. Cover 
with white or cream sauce, sprinkle with crumbs, dot 
with butter, and bake until the crumbs are brown. 

Braised Artichokes. — Peel, wash, and parboil the 
artichokes. Drain and put into a baking-dish with 
enough water to moisten, add a small bunch of 
parsley, a few slices of carrot, and a small onion. 
Cover and bake slowly for an hour, add a little more 
liquid if required, remove the carrot, onion, and 
parsley, and serve in a vegetable dish with the 
strained liquid thickened, seasoned, and poured 
over. 

Mashed Artichokes.;— Wash and peel fifteen arti- 
chokes, cover with cold, salted water, bring to the 
boil, and cook until tender, drain, rub through a 
sieve, season with salt and pepper, add a piece of 
butter, and serve very hot. Brown sauce may be 
added if liked. 

Brown Sauce. — Two onions, one tablespoonful of 
flour, three-quarters of a pint of salted water ; season- 
ing, one ounce of butter or a tablespoonful of oil ; 
chop the onion, fry brown in the butter, add the flour, 
which must be browned, pour in the water and stir 
until the mixture thickens, then season it to taste. 
Any kind of vegetable stock is preferable to water. 

Another Method. — One onion, half a carrot, half a 
turnip, parsley, herbs, one bay leaf, one ounce of 
butter, one pint of water, one dessertspoonful of 
vinegar, one lump of sugar, spice, one tablespoonful 

S 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

of ketchup or other condiment sauce. Fry the 
chopped vegetables in the butter until they are a good 
brown, add the flour, stir well, and add the water and 
stir until the mixture boils, then put in the parsley, 
herbs, vinegar, sugar, spice, and seasoning to taste, 
simmer by the side of the fire for about one hour, 
strain, and add the ketchup. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with Brown Sauce. — Peel the 
artichokes, cut into dice, cook them till tender in 
salted water. Drain and reheat in brown sauce. 

Artichokes k la Crime. — Prepare according to 
directions given for above recipe. Sprinkle with 
crumbs and grated cheese. Dot with butter, and 
brown in the oven, using the dish in which it is to 
be served. 

Jerusalem Artichoke Balls. — Take eight boiled arti- 
chokes, rub through a sieve, and put into a saucepan 
with a little milk, one ounce butter, and one ounce 
Parmesan cheese. Stir over the fire until smooth, 
then add pepper and salt to taste, and the yolks of 
two eggs. Mix well and let it cool. Make balls of 
equal size, brush over with the white of egg, dip in 
bread crumbs, and fry in hot nuttage or butter. 
Serve in pyramids with fried parsley scattered 
over. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with HoUandaise Sauce. — 

Take twelve artichokes, trim them to the shape of 

pears, boil in water till tender, then drain well, and 

arrange them in the shape of a pyramid, pour over 

them some sauce HoUandaise, and serve. 

Jerusalem Artichokes with White Sauce and Par- 

6 



ARTICHOKE 

mesan Cheese. — They must have been previously 
cooked and cut up in small pieces. 

Pried Chinese Artichokes. — Boil the artichokes 
until tender, drain them, egg and bread crumb them, 
fry until crisp, and serve with parsley sauce and slices 
of lemons. 

Artichokes k la Provengale.— Clean and cut two 
dozen Jerusalem artichokes in pieces about half an 
inch in length. Wash and put them into a stewpan 
with half an ounce of fresh butter and half an ounce 
of white castor sugar. Put them on a slow fire for 
a few minutes, add four tablespoonfuls of white sauce, 
eight tablespoonfuls of milk, and simmer until the 
artichokes are soft, then skim. Mix the yolk of an 
egg with two tablespoonfuls of milk, pour it into the 
stewpan and stir quickly, and serve hot. Jerusalem 
artichokes must be well cooked, but not reduced to 
a pulp. 

Artichoke Puree. — Wash well and peel twelve 
artichokes, boil them in three pints of water and one 
tablespoonful of salt ; when soft take them up, pro- 
bably in twenty minutes. Meanwhile cook slowly in 
a stewpan one sliced onion, a little celery, one turnip, 
two ounces of butter, one bay leaf, and a little grated 
nutmeg. Stir and add one tablespoonful of flour and 
one pint or less of milk to form a proper thickness. 
Put in the artichokes. When boiled pass through a 
fine hair sieve and serve hot. Put two tablespoonfuls 
of cream or two yolks of eggs in the tureen and stir 
while adding the pur^e. 

Boiled Globe Artichokes. — Cut off the tips of the 

7 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

leaves and round off the bottoms. Remove the stalks 
and trim away the outer leaves. Soak for half an 
hour in salt water, washing thoroughly. Boil until 
tender in a large quantity of salted water, put into 
a serving dish, dot with butter, and heat till the butter 
is melted, and serve. Hollandaise sauce can be 
served with them. 

Boiled Italian Artichokes. — Cut off the stems and 
boil till tender in salted water. Cut in half from top 
to bottom and serve to each person. Pass with them 
Hollandaise sauce. The scales must be stripped off 
and the soft end dipped into the sauce and eaten. 
The fuzzy part should be scraped off and the bottom 
eaten with a fork. 

Artichokes k la Babette. — Put green artichokes into 
water and remove the choke. Trim the leaves neatly, 
parboil five minutes in salt water, and drain. Put 
into a buttered casserole, season with salt and pepper, 
and add a little butter. Cover and cook in a moderate 
oven for twenty-five minutes. This can be served 
with Hollandaise sauce. 

Pried Artichokes. — Cut off the leaves and trim 
away the choke part. Chill on ice. Make a batter 
of half a cupful of flour, a pinch of salt, and baking 
powder, mix with a cupful of milk and a beaten 
egg. Cut each artichoke into pieces, season with salt 
and pepper, dip in the batter, and fry in deep fat, 
drain, and serve with any kind of sauce. 

Stuffed Artichokes.— Clean and trim the artichokes, 
boil in salted water until tender, drain, scoop out 
the soft part with a spoon, season with a cupful of 

8 



ARTICHOKE 

chopped nuts, salt, pepper, melted butter, and lemon 
juice. Put the artichokes into a buttered baking 
dish, fill with nuts, tie into shape with string, add 
two cupfuls of stewed and drained tomatoes, a sliced 
onion, a pinch of salt, and a tablespoonful of butter. 
Bake slowly for an hour, basting frequently with the 
liquid. Take off the strings and strain the sauce, and 
serve. 

Stuffed Fonds of Artichokes. — Cook eight artichoke 
bottoms in boiling water, drain, season with salt and 
pepper, fill with nuts, sprinkle with crumbs, dot with 
butter, and bake for ten minutes, basting with butter, 
and serve in the same dish. 

Artichokes a la GrSme. — Trim the artichokes and 
soak for half an hour in cold water and a little vinegar 
water to cover, rinse in fresh water and cook in salted 
water until tender. Drain and reheat in a cream 
sauce. An egg beaten and the juice of a lemon or 
a few drops of vinegar may be added. 

Artichokes k la Mode. — Prepare and trim four or 
more artichokes, put into a saucepan with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, the juice of a lemon, a pinch 
each of salt and pepper. Simmer until tender, drain, 
and brown in the oven. Put into the pan in which 
they were cooked two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
heaped tablespoonful of flour, stir well, add half a 
cupful of milk, and half a cupful of water. Let it 
boil four minutes, stirring corltinually. Add one 
wineglassful of white wine, and serve in a sauce- 
boat. 

Artichokes a I'ltalien. — Wash, quarter, and trim 

9 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the artichokes, and boil in salt water until tender. 
Drain, remove and discard the chokes, arrange the 
artichokes on a dish with the leaves outwards, pour 
over a white sauce flavoured with mushrooms, and 
garnish with watercress. 

Artichokes k la Lyjjnnaise. — Prepare and clean the 
artichokes, boil till tender in salt water, drain, wipe 
dry, fry in equal parts of butter and oil, when 
brown add two tablespoonfuls of flour, sjir well, 
then half a cupful of water, and boil for three 
minutes, season with salt, pepper, minced parsley, 
and lemon juice, and serve. 

Second Method, — Pull off the leaves and cut the 
artichokes into quarters, parboil in salt water for 
five minutes, drain and arrange in a thickly buttered 
baking-dish, sprinkle with sugar, salt, and white 
pepper, add one wineglassful of white wine and one 
tablespoonful of water. Simmer slowly for three 
quarters of an hour. Add one tablespoonful of butter 
and a little lemon juice poured over the artichokes 
before serving. 

Artichokes h, la Pompadour. — Cover eight artichoke 
bottoms with cream sauce, lay on each one a large 
floweret of boiled cauliflower previously boiled for a 
quarter of an hour, cover with more of the sauce, 
sprinkle with crumbs and grated cheese, dot with 
butter. Bake brown in a buttered pan, basting with 
the sauce as needed. 

Artichokes k la Provence.— Peel the artichokes 
and boil in salt water until tender. Drain and serve 
with a cupful of brown butter sauce to which has 

ID 



ARTICHOKE 

been added the yolks of two eggs well beaten, with a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. The sauce must not be 
allowed to boil after the eggs are added. 

Artichokes k la Tartare. — Cut the artichoke stalks 
close, cut the sharp points from the leaves, removing 
not more than half an inch from each. Wash in cold 
water to which a Httle vinegar has been added. Drain 
and cook gently in salt water, drain upside down 
until dry, fill the hollow left by the choke with Tartare 
sauce or with a sauce made as follows ; — Beat to- 
gether half a cupful of melted butter, one table- 
spoonful each of lemon juice and olive oil, a little salt, 
finely chopped parsley, French mustard, and grated 
onion to season. Bring to the boil, take from the 
fire and pour it very slowly upon one beaten egg, 
stirring all the time. Pour over the artichokes and 
serve. 

(French mustard is mustard mixed with vinegar 
instead of water.) 

Pur^e of Artichokes. — Clean some artichoke bot- 
toms and cook in salted water. Drain, rinse, and cut 
into small pieces. Reheat in a saucepan with an 
equal quantity of Bechamel sauce, and cook until 
slightly reduced. Rub through a fine sieve, season, 
add butter and cream, and serve. 

Another Method. — Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and two tablespoonfuls of .flour in a saucepan and 
stir for five minutes. Pour one and a half pints of 
boiling milk in gradually, beat well with a wooden 
spoon and flavour with herbs, a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg, twelve peppercorns, a 

1 1 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

pinch of salt, and three ounces of chopped mush- 
rooms. Cook for a quarter of an hour and rub 
through a fine sieve. 

Italian Dishes. — Clean and cut the under leaves of 
three large globe artichokes. Boil them sufficiently 
to be able to pick out the chokes and put them in 
cold water for five minutes. Drain thoroughly, then 
fill the hole in the artichoke with a forcemeat made 
of two shallots well chopped, six mushrooms minced, 
a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little butter and 
grated nutmeg, mix well together, tie up the artichokes 
with string. Heat three tablespoonfuls of good olive 
oil in a pan, and brown them well on both sides and 
then place the artichokes in a fireproof dish and put 
a bit of butter on the top of each, bake for forty 
minutes in the oven, and serve. Pour any kind of 
sauce over them. 

Artichokes and Eggs. — Cut off the sharp tops of 
young artichokes and slice them into four pieces, 
flour them and put them into a fireproof dish with 
boiling, pure olive oil. Beat up two or three eggs 
with some salt, pour over the artichokes, and cook till 
the eggs are set. Serve hot in the dish in which they 
were cooked. 

Fried Artichokes.— Cut off the sharp ends of the 
leaves of quite young artichokes and any hard leaves 
off the stalks, which must be peeled. Cut the 
artichokes into four pieces, put them in a saucepan 
with butter, salt and pepper. Shake the saucepan 
occasionally, and when they have absorbed all the 
butter pour over them a cup of water to finish the 

12 



ASPARAGUS 

cooking. Take them out, dry them, and put into a 
saucepan some chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of 
finely grated bread, and the juice of a lemon. Boil 
the sauce for a few minutes, then take it off the fire 
and add a little more water, heat again over the fire, 
pour over the artichokes, and serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS [Asparagus officinalis. Liliacece). 

As asparagus is a perennial plant of long life it is 
of great importance that the bed in which it is to 
spend fifteen years or more should be well prepared 
and suitable for it. A light sandy loam is the very 
best of soil for this purpose. If, however, the 
gardener has only heavy soil at his command, he 
can still grow good asparagus by providing ample 
drainage and by raising his asparagus beds a few 
inches above the level of the surrounding garden. 

Ground should be prepared for asparagus in the 
early winter, when it must be thoroughly trenched, 
and left in a rough condition for the winter frosts 
to pulverise and open it. A good dressing of manure 
should be dug into the second spit. 

Asparagus is generally planted far too closely, with 
the result that only very second-rate sticks are grown. 
Now a mature asparagus plant will be from three to 
four feet across the roots if properly grown, and this 
definitely points to the fact that the plants should be 
at least three feet apart. There is no doubt whatever 
that plants four feet apart will give the finest heads, 
and the ideal width for the beds would be three feet, 

^3 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

with two-foot alleys between, the plants being put 
four feet apart down the middle of the beds. Un- 
fortunately few gardeners (except nurserymen grow- 
ing for the market) will afford this ample space, 
therefore we lay down as the absolute minimum 
distances two and a half feet between the rows, the 
plants the same distance in the row. By placing the 
plants alternately and not opposite each other in the 
adjoining row a little more distance apart is given. 

No asparagus bed should contain more than three 
rows — two are plenty — as it injures the heads if the 
gardeners are tramping about over them gathering 
the crop. The edge of the bed should be at least 
eighteen inches distant from the nearest row of plants, 
and between the beds eighteen-inch alleyways should 
be left for traffic and cultural purposes. 

Since asparagus is four years coming to bearing 
size from seed, many people prefer to start a planta- 
tion with two or three year old plants, but it is 
difficult to transplant safely, and certainly the best 
plantations come from seed. This should be sown 
in March or April. At each point where it is wished 
to establish a crown three seeds should be planted 
an inch apart and two inches deep. When the 
seedlings are well up the strongest should be left 
and the two others pulled away. 

If, however, plants are to be put out the utmost 
care is necessary. In the first place it is no use 
planting in autumn or winter. The only safe time 
is just when the plants are beginning to make their 
spring growth. If moved when they are dormant 

14 



ASPARAGUS 

the plants will lie quietly rotting in the ground, and 
the gardener will be lucky if ten per cent, of autumn- 
moved plants survive. 

March and April are the months in which to plant ; 
February is generally too early and May is sometimes 
too late, though we have this year made a small 
plantation at the end of April every plant of which 
has survived. The ground is prepared for the plants 
by opening it out to a depth of four inches, and by 
means of the garden line and a rake or hoe ridges 
should be formed along the line the plants are to 
be placed. When the plants arrive from the nursery 
they should be at once unpacked, a few at a time, 
and planted forthwith, as drying winds are most 
injurious to the roots. The roots should be laid on 
and over the ridges and earth at once drawn over 
them. Repeat the operation, half a dozen plants at 
a time, until the whole is finished. Earth should 
be returned from the alleys till the beds stand some 
four inches above them, and all raked level and tidy. 
The crowns should not be more than four inches 
beneath the surface of the finished bed. 

The after culture of asparagus is not difficult. 
The beds should be kept weeded ; the hand fork and 
hand weeding are preferable to using a hoe to cut 
the plants as well as the weeds. In the autumn the 
beds should be cleaned up and the stems cut down 
to within six inches of the soil, the top two inches 
of earth should be removed to the alleys, and a good 
mulch of fat manure spread over the bed. 

In February the long straw and debris of this 

15 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

mulch should be raked off, and the earth returned 
from the alleys ; at the same time a top dressing of 
two ounces superphosphate of lime and of four 
ounces of kainit per square yard should be applied. 
About mid-March give a top-dressing of half an ounce 
of nitrate of soda per square yard, and repeat this dose 
every fortnight till the end of May, always selecting 
showery days, or if these are not to be found, 
give a thorough watering with the hose after the 
application. 

The bed should not be cut from for two seasons ; 
thereafter it may be cut until mid-June. It is ibetter 
not to allow the plants to develop seed, as it will 
weaken the plants, and it is important not to disturb 
the earth in the alleyways too deeply, as the plants 
will send their roots right out into them. For the 
first two years radishes, lettuce, or even spinach may 
be grown in them, but for the first two years only. 

Forcing Asparagus. — Where there is sufficient 
space and labour it is not difficult to obtain a winter 
supply of this delicious vegetable. But as the plants 
can only be forced once, and then must be thrown 
away, it is necessary to devote a special bed to 
growing forcing plants. A quarter of the area of 
the bed must be sown yearly, thus providing for one, 
two, three, and four year old plants. Seed should 
be sown in early April, in rows two feet apart, and 
the plants should be left two feet in the rows. The 
general treatment is much as given above, except 
that the spring top-dressing of nitrate of soda must be 
limited to two applications, one in April, one in May. 

i6 



ASPARAGUS 

Beginning in November, prepare a hotbed as for 
cucumbers with about three feet of fermenting 
material ; when the heat is mild and even, spread 
three inches of light soil on top, lift the four-year- 
old plants, a few at a time, very carefully, and pack 
them into the frame as close as possible. Cover with 
four inches of light soil, and give a good watering 
with tepid water. Admit some air on mild days by 
lifting the back of the light ; if there be frost, cover 
with mats. Do not over-water the frame, but do not 
let it get really dry. If the heat dies away too soon, 
line with hot manure round the frame. Extra care 
will have to be exercised in cutting the heads ; in fact 
the best way is to remove the soil and break them 
off with the fingers. A frame so treated will yield 
asparagus for about four weeks, and when the 
asparagus is out of the way will grow early radishes, 
lettuce, and carrots. 

ITALIAN DISHES. 

Plain Asparagus. — Take a bundle of asparagus, 
scrape the white of each stalk lightly, put them in 
cold water. Then tie them in bundles of twenty-five, 
or, if very large, of twelve or fifteen, keep the heads 
together, and keep the ends of one length. Cook them 
quickly for fifteen minutes in two quarts of boiling 
water, in which one ounce of salt has been put. 
Dish up on a piece of toast and serve very hot with 
oiled fresh butter (not sauce) or Dutch sauce. 

Dutch Sauce. — Rub four ounces of butter to a cream 

17. B 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

in a saucepan or bowl, add four yolks of eggs, beat 
weU together and put in half a teaspoonful of salt, the 
jui^ of half a lemon, a pinch of Cayenne, and a cup- 
ful of hot water, poured in by degrees, mix well, and put 
in a " bain-marie," Stir until the sauce becomes of the 
consistency of thick cream. Be careful it does not 
boil, or it will curdle. Take it off the fire and stir 
for some minutes. Dutch sauce ought to be quite 
smooth and creamy. Half these quantities of butter 
and eggs would make an excellent dish. 

Asparagus ^ I'EspagnoUe. — Cut off the green heads 
of a bunch of asparagus and wash well, boil for 
fifteen minutes in salted boiling water, strain carefully. 
Put in a saucepan two ounces of butter, stir in one 
good tablespoonful of flour, add half a pint of cream 
or milk, and a little pepper and salt. Stir carefully, 
let it boil for three minutes, add the asparagus heads 
and serve very hot. 

Asparagus k la Supreme. — Choose asparagus of 
about the same size, break off the tenderest part with 
your finger and cut into small bits, cooking the tips 
last. Put them into salted boiling water, boil for 
fifteen minutes, then drain, and place in a baking-pan 
with a little melted fresh butter. Put on the fire for 
a few minutes, add some salt and lemon juice. Serve 
hot. 

Asparagus h la Pompadour.— Cut cleaned asparagus 
into two-inch lengths, boil until tender in salted water, 
and drain. Bring to the boil two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar and one tablespoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper to season. When boiling, take from the fire, 

i8 



ASPARAGUS 



add the well-beaten yolk of an egg, pour over the 
asparagus, and serve. -jf 

Asparagus Souffle. — Take some asparagus (previ- 
ously boiled) and rub it through a sieve. Add the yolks 
of three well-beaten eggs and three tablespoonfuls of 
milk, with pepper and salt to taste. Beat the whites to 
a stiff froth, mix in, add the asparagus pur6e, and put 
in buttered souffl6 dishes and bake for ten minutes. 
This makes a tasty course for a luncheon or dinner. 

Asparagus Omelette. — Beat six eggs, whites and yolks 
separately, add three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, 
cut the green part of thirty-six heads of asparagus 
(which have been previously boiled) in small pieces, 
mix with the eggs, add a spoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese, pepper, and cook in an omelette pan in which 
an ounce of butter has been dissolved. Serve very 
hot. 

Asparagus Omelette (2). — Break four eggs into a 
bowl and beat until light and foamy without separating 
whites and yolks. Add four tablespoonfuls of cream 
or rich milk, a saltspoonful of salt, and a dash of 
pepper. Have a smooth, clean omelette pan ready, 
and melt a tablespoonful of butter or vegetable oil in 
it, tilting it so that it will run all over the pan to 
grease the sides as well as the bottom. When hissing 
hot pour in the egg mixture. As it cools, prick in 
several places with a fork until the whole is of a 
creamy consistency. Have in readiness several 
spoonfuls of cooked asparagus points, mixed with a 
little melted butter, a few drops of lemon juice, 
and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Slip the 

19 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

omelette on to a sheet of kitchen paper on a hot 
dish, put on one-half the asparagus tips, fold over, 
and slip off the paper on to a hot dish and send 
to table quickly; nothing spoils so quickly as an 
omelette. Three minutes waste of time makes it as 
tough as leather. If liked, the edges of the omelette 
may be garnished with more asparagus tips. 

Asparagus Mould. — Well butter a pudding mould, 
put in a layer of the tender part of cooked asparagus 
cut up small, next a layer of cooked green peas, then 
two hard boiled eggs cut in slices, another layer of 
asparagus, and lastly of peas. Beat up three eggs, 
stir in two ounces of flour rolled in one ounce of 
butter, add a cupful of milk, stirring all the time, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Pour the mixture into the 
mould, cover with buttered paper, steam for two hours, 
turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with white sauce 
round it. 

Asp^rge k la Mousseline. — Place cooked and well- 
drained asparagus on square or diamond slices of 
toast; keep hot. Prepare a sauce beforehand by heating 
two ounces of butter with the yolks of four eggs, and 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, salt and pepper to 
taste. Cook in a double pan until it thickens, then 
add two tablespoonfuls of butter in small pieces, and 
two tablespoonfuls of cream or a little more. Pour 
very hot over the asparagus and toast. Serve im- 
mediately. 

Baked Asparagus.— Cook the asparagus in boiling 
salted water until tender, drain, and put into a 
buttered baking-dish with a little grated Parmesan 

20 



ASPARAGUS 

cheese between the layers. Chop a small onion finely 
and fry in butter, and spread over the asparagus, and 
sprinkle with cheese and crumbs, and brown in a hot 
oven. 

Asparagus Baked with Cheese. — Prepare according 
to directions given for boiled asparagus. Make a 
sauce of three tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, 
one cupful of water and half a cupful of cream or 
milk, let it boil for three minutes, add the yolks of 
two eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 
Heat thoroughly but do not boil. Lay the asparagus 
full length into an oval buttered baking-dish, cover 
with the sauce, and sprinkle with cheese. Repeat 
until the dish is full, having sauce on the top. 
Sprinkle with crumbs and cheese, dot with butter, 
and bake for half an hour. 

Asparagus Tips k la Polonaise. — Clean and cut 
some asparagus three or four inches long, season 
with salt and pepper, and put them in a buttered 
paper bag with a teaspoonful of fried breadcrumbs 
and a little melted butter. Close the bag and cook 
in a moderate oven for half an hour. — Newark 
News. 

Asparagus "Alia Oasalinga." — Take fifty heads of 
asparagus and cook the green part in boiling salted 
water, then drain and put the asparagus into a baking- 
dish with four ounces of butter (or two ounces would 
suffice). Sprinkle with grated cheese, salt and pepper 
to taste, brown slightly, garnish with eggs fried in 
butter. Serve hot. — Mrs, Ross, Leaves from a Tuscan 
Kitchen. 

21 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Asparagus "Alia Crema." — Take the heads only 
of the asparagus, as many as are required j put them 
into boiling water with a little salt; boil for fifteen 
minutes. Prepare meanwhile some thick squares of 
roll or white bread without the crust, scoop out the 
centre of each piece without breaking through, and 
put in a piece of butter, then fry or bake until the 
bread turns a golden-yellow colour. After draining 
the heads of the asparagus, place them in the holes 
in the bread. Take care to keep them hot. Then 
heat half a pint of milk and two or three yolks of 
eggs, and stir until it thickens to a smooth custard, 
but it must not boil. Take off the fire, and add a 
little butter and a sprinkling of salt and pepper. 
Pour over the asparagus and crofitons, and serve 
very hot. — Mrs. Ross, Leaves from a Tuscan Kitchen. 

Baked Asparagus with Eggs.— Cut the tender 
parts of the asparagus into half-inch lengths, boil 
until tender in salted water. Drain, and mix with a 
drawn butter sauce, seasoning with salt and pepper, 
and pour into a buttered baking-dish. Break five 
or six eggs carefully on the surface, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and put into the oven until the 
eggs have set. 

Asparagus Tips Saut6.— Boil the tips until cooked, 
about fifteen minutes, in salted water, then drain them 
thoroughly. Saut6 in melted butter, season with salt 
and pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little sugar. 

Creamed Asparagus.— Boil the green parts of the 
asparagus until tender in salted water with a tiny bit 
of soda, drain and chop. Reheat in cream sauce. 

22 



ASPARAGUS 

Season with salt and pepper, and cool; stir into it 
three eggs, well beaten, with two tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Pour into a buttered baking-dish, cover, and 
bake for twenty minutes, but do not let it boil ; then 
uncover and brown. 

Creme Asparagus. — Cut the heads of the asparagus 
into two-inch lengths. Parboil for ten minutes in 
salted water and drain. Put a heaped tablespoonful 
of butter in a saucepan, when hot sprinkle with a 
tablespoonful of flour, add a cupful of boiling milk, 
salt and pepper to season ; cook until thick, stirring 
all the time. 

Asparagus with Egg Sauce. — Cook three cupfuls 
of asparagus tips until tender, and drain. Reheat 
one cupful of cream sauce, put the rest into a well- 
buttered baking-dish, pour over the asparagus, and 
set the dish in a pan of boiling water, and put into 
the oven for fifteen minutes. Sprinkle with parsley, 
and serve with egg sauce. 

Escalloped Asparagus. — Wash and cut up a bunch 
of asparagus, discarding the tough ends. Boil in 
salted water about twenty minutes until tender, and 
drain. Boil three eggs hard, throw into cold water, 
remove the shells, and chop finely. Butter a shallow 
baking-dish, and put in a layer of asparagus, covered 
with chopped eggs, sprinkle with grated cheese, 
repeat until the dish is full, having asparagus on the 
top. Pour over four tablespoonfuls of drawn butter 
or half a pint of cream sauce, cover with crumbs, 
dot with butter, sprinkle with grated cheese, and 
bake until brown. 

23 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Asparagus Pricassde. — Clean and cut up twenty- 
five stalks of asparagus, discarding the tough ends, 
drain and chop one head of lettuce, half a head of 
endive, and a small onion. Put a heaped table- 
spoonful of butter into a saucepan and cook in it a 
tablespoonful of flour, add one cupful of milk or 
water, and stir until it thickens. Stir constantly, 
add the chopped vegetables, with salt and pepper to 
season ; simmer over a slow fire for half an hour, 
and serve very hot. 

Ragout of Asparagus. — Chop finely a little parsley, 
two or three young onions, and a few leaves of 
lettuce, fry them brown in butter, dredge with flour, 
add a cupful of water, and salt and pepper to season. 
Reheat the cooked asparagus in this sauce, sprinkle 
with grated nutmeg, and serve very hot. 

Asparagus {American Recipe). — Take thick slices 
of bread about two inches thick, and stamp them 
out into neat rounds with a biscuit cutter ; with a 
smaller cutter mark a circle in the centre of each, 
round and scoop out the crumbs to the depth of an 
inch, taking care to leave the sides and bottom quite 
firm ; arrange these in a shallow dish and pour over 
them half a. pint of milk to which a beaten egg has 
been added. Then take up carefully and fry in 
a frying-basket in a pan of boiling fat. They will 
brown immediately, and must be removed when a 
pale golden brown ; drain on kitchen paper. Cut the 
tender part of the asparagus into pieces of an equal 
size, rejecting that which is woody. Wash, and 
simmer in salted water until tender, and drain. Put 

24 



BASIL 

a heaped tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan 
with a heaped tablespoonful of flour, then add a 
quarter of a pint of the water in which the asparagus 
was cooked ; let it come to the boil and add the 
asparagus, the juice of a lemon, and one teaspoonful 
of finely-chopped parsley. Fill the canapes with this 
mixture and arrange on a dish and garnish with cress 
or parsley and sliced lemon. 

Asparagus k la Tartare. — Cool cooked asparagus 
on ice, and serve very cold with mayonnaise or 
Tartare sauce. 

Tartare Sauce. — Mix six tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 
two of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of French mustard, 
salt and pepper to taste, and a pinch of sugar. Bring 
to the boil and pour hot over boiled and drained 
asparagus. Cover, stand on ice, and serve very cold. 

Asparagus k la Tyson. — Boil the asparagus in salted 
water, drain, cut the strings, and arrange on buttered 
toast. Cook together a tablespoonful each of butter 
and flour, add a cupful of the water in which the 
asparagus was boiled, and cook until thick, stirring 
constantly. Season with salt, red and black pepper, 
and pour over the asparagus and serve. 



BASIL {Ocymum Basilicum. Labiatce). 

Sow in pans in a hotbed in April. Transplant 
in May into a light, rich border, setting the plants 
nine inches apart. The flower stems should be cut 
as soon as ready and dried for winter use, in the 
way of lavender. They are used for seasoning, as 

25 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

also are the young leaves, which the plants will con- 
tinue to grow until the frosts. 



BROAD BEAN ( Vt'a'a Faba. Leguminosce). 

Broad beans may be grown in any good garden 
soil, but they prefer a rich, well-drained loam. A 
sandy loam will produce early and mid-season crops, 
but will be found to be too hot for late crops ; while 
a heavy soil is more suited to mid-season and late 
crops than to early ones. 

The ground for beans should be prepared early in the 
autumn, and in light soils plenty of manure trenched 
in will keep the plants growing through a dry season. 
In a light soil a sowing may be made during open 
weather in mid-December. This early sowing gives 
the beans time to get their roots well down, out 
of the reach of drought, and will yield in June, but 
about once in five years frost and damp will destroy 
the whole sowing. 

In normal soils February is perhaps early enough 
to make the first sowing, and in heavier ground, 
March. Where there is plenty of space, if late beans 
are in great request, sowings may be made till mid- 
June in heavy soils, but in moderately light ground 
it is not worth while to sow after April. March and 
April are the best months, however, in the generality 
of gardens for successional sowings. 

Where an extra early supply is needed, sow in 
boxes in gentle heat, early in February ; grow on 
in cold frames as soon as up ; harden off and plant 

26 



BROAD BEANS 

out early in March. A sheltered and warm border 
must be chosen for this planting, and the plants 
should be set in rows two feet apart, the plants six 
inches in the row. This procedure should provide 
broad beans about the 14th of June. 

Some gardeners plant beans with a dibber, but 
it is much better practice to open out a trench six 
inches wide with the hoe, and place the beans in this 
trench in two rows, the beans nine inches apart in 
the row, and set W fashion. This method ensures 
the seed being planted at an even depth, and obviates 
any poaching of the soil by the dibber, which always 
tends to leave a cylindrical hole with compressed 
sides. The double rows of beans should be thirty 
inches apart. 

In June, when the beans are well in flower, they 
are too often attacked by the black aphis. This may 
be washed off and killed by syringing with an emul- 
sion of soft soap and paraffin. It is good practice 
to break off the infected tops and burn them. Top- 
ping the plants will be no detriment, but will throw 
the strength back into the pods already forming. 
Finally, gather the beans as soon as they are at all 
large enough to cook ; old beans are good, but young 
beans are far better. 

DISHES. 

Boiled Broad Beans are best when gathered young, 
about two-thirds grown ; the flavour is then very 
delicate. Some consider this plan wasteful, but it is 
not so, really, as if one waits for the crop to attain 

27 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

its full size, an enormous quantity of beans are ready 
at once. By beginning early one can keep pace with 
nature. 

Shell the beans, and put them into boiling water 
with one tablespoonful of salt and a very small piece 
of soda. Boil for ten minutes if very young, increas- 
ing the length of time as they grow older. Drain 
and heap up on a drainer, pour over parsley sauce, 
and serve very hot. 

Parsley Sauce. — Pick and wash some fresh parsley, 
dip into boiling water for a minute, place in the 
corner of a towel, and wring out. This process 
eliminates some of the bitter flavour, and saves the 
trouble of boiling the parsley. Chop with a 
Lightning Mince Cutter. Make a good white sauce 
{see Sauces), put in the chopped parsley, stir well, 
and pour over the beans. 

Polenta Beans. — Boil two cupfuls of haricot or 
butter beans, which have soaked overnight, until soft, 
drain, add two tablespoonfuls of molasses, a tea- 
spoonful each of salt, mustard, and olive oil, pepper 
to taste, and a little vinegar. Cook in a baking- 
dish in the oven for twenty minutes and serve very 
hot. 

Cream Beans. — Soak one pint of haricot or butter 
beans overnight in cold water, drain and boil until 
soft in salted water. Haricots will take two or three 
hours, butter beans about one and a half hours. Press 
through a sieve, and mix with a sufficient quantity 
of cream sauce to make very soft, season with salt 
and pepper, add two eggs well beaten, turn into a 

28 



BROAD BEANS 

buttered baking-dish, sprinkle with crumbs, dot with 
butter, and bake brown. 

Broad Bean Pudding — When broad beans get too 
old for eating plain, boil them and rub them through 
a sieve, pound smoothly with a little pepper and salt, 
some cream, and the yolk of one egg, boil one hour 
in a buttered basin that will just hold the mixture, 
and serve with parsley sauce. 

French Bean Curry. — Cook your beans and drain, 
and when cold add other cold vegetables that may 
be left over, carrots, peas, &c., mix them with butter 
and onions, previously cooked together, add a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder and a little flour, let them 
simmer a long time, adding a little stock as the 
moisture dries up, then serve as a curry, with well- 
boiled rice separately. 

Haricot Beans. — Soak twelve hours, boil three 
hours, and serve with "piquante" sauce. 

Broad Beans {South American Disk). — Take one pint 
of shelled beans, and put them into boiling water. 
Boil rapidly for six or seven minutes, then drain 
and skin them. Put into a stewpan one ounce of 
butter and a small onion finely chopped, let them 
sweat for five minutes. Add six button mushrooms 
finely chopped and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
stir in an ounce of flour and a little salt and pepper, 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice and a teacupful of boiling 
water ; add the beans, and simmer gently for fifteen 
minutes; just before serving add a wineglassful of 
sherry. 

Bean Souffle {Haricot). — Soak two cupfuls of dry 

29 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

haricot beans overnight, and boil until soft in water 
to cover, about three hours, changing the water once. 
Drain, press through a sieve, season with salt and 
pepper, add a little butter, and four tablespoonfuls 
of hot milk, and mix well. Fold-in the stiffly-beaten 
whites of two eggs, turn into a buttered baking-dish, 
bake for twenty minutes. 

Bean Croquettes [^Haricot). — Boil two cupfuls of 
butter or haricot beans until soft, two or three hours, 
drain, press through a sieve, season with salt and red 
pepper, and add one tablespoonful each of molasses 
and vinegar, mix thoroughly, cool and shape into 
croquettes, dip in egg and breadcrumbs, fry in butter, 
and serve with tomato sauce. 



FRENCH BEANS (Phaseolus vulgaris. Leguminosce). 

French or kidney beans may be sown in April if 
an early sort be chosen and a sunny bed selected. 
The rows should be thirty inches apart, and the 
plants thinned to nine inches in the rows ; as they 
will transplant well, gaps can be made up where there 
have been failures. For later sorts the plants should 
be at least a foot apart. The main sowings should 
be made from about the 20th of April till the end 
of May in light soils, in heavy ground they may be 
sown right through June; for later sowings choose 
quick-growing, forcing varieties. If climbing varieties 
be used the rows must be four or five feet apart, and 
sticks provided for the plants to climb over. Catch 
crops of early lettuce may be planted between the 

30 



SCARLET RUNNER BEAN 
rows at the time of sowing (or the beans may be 
set between rows of established lettuce plants). 
Radishes and mustard and cress are other crops 
which may be grown between rows of kidney beans 
with advantage. 

Flageolet and Haricot Beans need the same treat- 
ment as kidney beans. All these subjects are tender 
and will not stand frost. 

Forcing Kidney Beans. — The dwarf forcing varieties 
may be sown on hotbeds, with six inches of good 
soil on top, beginning in February. They must have 
plenty of air on mild days, and not be over-watered'; 
at the same time they must not be allowed to dry 
out ; the plants may stand a foot apart. Gathering 
should begin in such a frame about the end of April. 

If there be an orchard-house available the beans 
may be sown in heat in boxes in February, and 
transplanted to the orchard-house. Or beans sown 
in this way in March may be transplanted to a 
warm border sheltered from slight frosts, with the 
possibility of giving ample protection from sharp 
frost by means of mats or litter overhead. But after 
all, forcing kidney beans is a job that requires a good 
deal of time or of labour, and is hardly for the single- 
handed gardener. 



SCARLET RUNNER BEAN [Phaseolus multiflorus. 
Leguminosce). 

This noble bean gives the most reliable crop of 
late summer and early autumn vegetables. It is easy 

31 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

to grow, and cottage and hall alike enjoy its succulent 
fruit. There are many new and improved varieties, 
and it is now possible to grow beans a foot long, an 
inch deep, and as tender as possible. 

The best runners are grown in soil trenched and 
manured some months in advance, but where space 
is a consideration we find that they follow spring 
cabbage well. By clearing the middle row of three 
in a bed of cabbage, room will be found to open a 
trench fifteen inches wide and two spits deep ; this 
should be done late in April. Into the bottom of 
this trench a heavy dressing of very old, buttery 
manure (such as comes from the heart of an exhausted 
hotbed) should be dug deeply. The soil should 
then be returned and trodden firm, until the trench 
is four inches deep ; rake the surface level and place 
the beans on it in two rows, the beans nine inches 
apart in the row, or even a foot will be none too far 
apart. Then return most of the rest of the earth, 
leaving a trench one inch below the general level 
of the garden. This leaves a useful depression for 
watering. 

By the time the beans are well up and are ready 
for staking, the cabbage will be mostly cleared away, 
and will have taken no harm from their neighbours ; 
indeed there need be no hurry to clear the last of 
the cabbages, which may prove useful to the end 
of June. A long, strong stake should be placed by 
each bean, and thrust a good foot into the ground. 
These stakes should incline inwards from each side 
of the double row, and be tied together at their inter- 

32 



SCARLET RUNNER BEAN 

section. These ties should be at a uniform height, 
and in the V-shaped crossing of the stakes other 
stakes should be laid lengthways, and also tied to 
the uprights. By these means a rigid hedge is pro- 
vided, which will carry the great weight of haulm in 
safety. A second sowing may be made about the 
end of May, but if the beans are kept rigorously 
picked the plants will go on bearing right up to the 
early frosts. As the haulm reaches the tops of the 
stakes it must be pinched, in order to make it break 
from joints lower down. Weeds should be pulled 
up, and in dry weather a good soaking of water 
every three days will be a great help in promoting 
the setting of the beans. 

Make a practice of gathering all the beans as fast as 
they come to perfection ; it is important that none 
should be allowed to mature seed ; one pod with ripe 
seed on a plant will certainly check the further growth 
of fresh beans. 

DISHES. 

French Beans en Fricass^. — Cut off the ends and 
strings of some young French beans. Cook them in 
salted water, then drain them well. Put them into a 
saucepan with two ounces butter and chopped onion, 
or if liked, garlic and parsley chopped very fine, with a 
little salt. Be careful to add some .'^.auce if the beans 
dry up before they are completely cooked. Toss them 
in the pan for a few minutes, and before taking them 
off the fire add the yolks of one or two eggs (accord- 
ing to the quantity of beans) well beaten up, with a 

33 C 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

little water, the juice of a lemon, and some grated 
Parmesan cheese. Stir from time to time, never 
allowing them to boil, or the eggs will set. To keep 
the beans a good colour, put a pinch of salt, with a 
pinch of soda, in the water when boiling them. 

French Beans al Fomodoro. — Take your French 
beans, cut off the ends and string. Wash in cold 
water, boil till tender, and drain. While still wet, put 
them into a baking-dish with some good olive oil, 
some chopped onion and parsley, salt and pepper to 
taste. Put the dish on the fire with the cover on, 
and cook slowly. As the beans dry add the juice 
of some tomatoes or some good tomato conserve. 
Tak^ care they do not burn. 

Beans with Cream. — Cut off the ends, remove the 
strings, and cut into two or three pieces. Wash in 
cold, water, drain, and boil until tender in salted 
water. Beat the yolks of three eggs, add half a 
cupful of cream, and a tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Heat thoroughly and add gradually a table- 
spoonful of vinegar ; when smooth and thick pour 
over the beans, keep hot a few minutes, and serve. 

Beans with Parsley.— Strirfg the beans, cut in 
strips, and cook until tender, then put them in 
melted butter. Sprinkle with minced parsley, keep 
warm for ten minutes, and serve. 

Beans k la Bretonne. — Prepare according to 
directions given for beans with cream, using one 
quart of beans, drain and re-heat with a table- 
spoonful each of butter and chopped onion ; brown 
slightly. Season with minced parsley, pepper, and 

34 



BEETROOT 

salt, add the juice of a lemon and a cupful of white 
stock or hot milk. Serve imthediately. 

How to Preserve French Beans.— The strings 
should be pulled off. Wash them, then cook them 
for ten minutes in boiling water. Take them' out, 
and pour cold water over them, dry them, and put 
them into jars, and fill to the brim with salted water ; 
cover, and tie up the tops, put the jars into hot 
water for an hour and a half without ever letting 
them actually boil or the jars might be cracked. 
They should be fslaced in a deep enough pan, so as 
to cover the jars to the necks. 

French Beans Boiled. — String, and cut in cross- 
way slices two pounds of French beans, put into 
abundance of boiling water, to which one table- 
spoonful of salt and a piece of soda the size of a 
pea have been added ; this preserves the fresh- 
green. If there is not plenty of water the beans will 
not cook properly. Boil for twenty minutes to half 
an hour. Drain through a colander and serve on 
a drainer. 

French Beans Saat^. — Boil as above ; after draining, 
return to the saucepan. Add a sprinkle of pepper 
and a tablespoonful of butter; shake well for three 
minutes and serve very hot. 

BEETROOT {Beta vulgaris, Chenopodiacecz). 

As with all root crops, a soil fairly free from 
stones is preferred ; a stony ground will produce 
malformed roots. A light sandy loam will grow the 

35 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

best beet, but any good garden soil will answer 
excellently. There should be no recent manure in 
the two upper spits, but a slight dressing of old 
manure beneath the second spit will work wonders. 

A giant beet is far from desirable for cooking, as 
it requires such a monstrous great pan, since, if the 
taproot be broken, the beet will bleed and lose all its 
colour, and the cook will send anaemic-looking slabs 
of garnishing on the salads. Probably theJre is no 
better beet for private growing than Nutting's dwarf 
red. The turnip-rooted beets are compact, it is true, 
but we do not think they can compare with this for 
flavour or tender texture. 

Sow beet during April in shallow drills a foot 
apart, single the seedlings in May, and thin out 
three weeks later to eight inches distance. Keep the 
ground free from weeds by means of frequent use 
of the Dutch hoe. The roots may be used as soon 
as large enough, and the whole crop must be lifted 
in September, or early October. Choosing a bright 
dry day, lift them with a long tined fork most care- 
fully, trim the leaves off two inches from the crown, 
and store in sand in a cool, frost-proof cellar. The 
utmost care must be taken not to bruise or break 
the roots. 

Swiss Chard or Leaf Beet.— Three hundred years 
ago, before the introduction of beetroot, beets were 
grown for their foliage only, and Gerarde, who wrote 
in 1597, tells us that "the leaves were eaten as salad 
with oil and vinegar. " 

The cultivation is much the same as for root beet, 

36 



BEETROOT 

except that it can stand more manure, as it is the 
foliage which is required, and the ground does not 
need much preparation. At the end of the summer 
the leaves can be gathered, and, with a little protection 
from frost, the plants will bear for a long time. 

The leaves can be eaten for salad or cooked like 
spinach with a little sorrel, and the midribs are 
treated as sea kale or cardoons. It will thus be 
seen it is a very useful plant. — W. F. Giles, Sutton 
and Sons, Reading. 

ITALIAN DISHES. 

Beet Leaves Boiled. — Take the young leaves of 
white beetroot, tie them in bunches, and put them 
into salted boiling water. They can be cooked in 
butter like Spinach, or served on buttered toast with 
Sauce Hollandaise. 

Beet " Gnocchi." — Wash well and remove the mid- 
ribs of a bundle of beet leaves, boil, and then throw 
them into cold water, dry, and mince them very finely, 
put them into an earthenware pot with four ounces 
of freshly grated cheese, four fresh eggs, four ounces 
of curds or fresh milk cheese, a little grated nutmeg, 
and some salt. When thick, put it on a well-floured 
table and make a long roll the size of a finger, cut 
into pieces about two inches long, flour them well, 
and throw them into an earthen pot of boiling water. 

As they come to the surface take them out, drain 
well, season with butter, a little grated nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, and cheese. These must be cooked over a hot 
fire. — Leaves from a Tuscan Kitchen. 

37 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Boiled Beetroot. — Select small, smooth beets and 
clean without cutting or scraping them. Boil for an 
hour or two, and cool. Remove the skins, cut them 
into sHces, and serve either cold, or reheat in melted 
butter with salt, pepper, vinegar, chopped parsley and 
a little chopped, boiled onion added to season it. 

Stewed Beetroot. — Prepare according to the direc- 
tion given for boiled beets, and cut into thin slices. 
Cook together a tablespoonful each of butter and 
flour, add a cupful of water and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar. Cook until thick, stirring constantly. Season 
with salt and pepper, heat the beets in the sauce, and 
serve with small button onions parboiled, and fried 
brown in butter and sugar. 

Another method. — Prepare according to directions 
given for boiled beets. When peeled and sliced re- 
heat, with salt, pepper and vinegar to taste, a boiled 
onion chopped fine, and a little minced parsley ; add 
a little flour cooked in butter and simmer slowly for 
fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. 

Cream Beets.— Cook small white beets in salted 
water until tender. Rinse in cold water, rub off 
the skins, and re-heat in cream sauce, or cut boiled 
beet into dice and mix with the sauce, adding more 
butter. 

Oreme Sauce.— A mixture of Bechamel Sauce. (See 
Sauce, p. 208.) Let it cool and then add two table- 
spoonfuls of cream and the yolk of one egg. 

Baked Beets. — Wash without peeling, and bake 
slowly until done. Remove the skin, cut into slices, 
and season with melted butter, salt, and pepper. 

38 



BEETROOT 

Serve very hot, with a little vinegar or sugar added 
to the seasoning, or serve whole with seasoned, melted 
butter. 

Beets with Sour Sauce. — Prepare according to 
directions given for boiled beets, blend a heaped 
teaspoonful of cornflour with a little cold water, mix 
with a scant cupful of vinegar, bring to the boil, 
and cook till thick, stirring constantly. Add a tea- 
spoonful each of butter and sugar to the sauce, and 
season with salt and pepper. Pour over the beets, 
and serve very hot in a covered dish. Less vinegar 
may be used, adding water as needed, and the sugar 
can be omitted also. 

Pickled Beets. — (i) Wash small beets, but do not 
cut or scrape them. Cover with boiling water and boil 
until tender. Drain, rinse in cold water. Rub off 
the peel with your fingers, cut into slices, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, cover with vinegar and let them 
stand for several hours before using. Serve cold. 

(2) Boil two cupfuls of vinegar with a few 
cloves and peppercorns, a blade of mace, a tiny 
bit of ginger root. Take from the fire and add 
two cupfuls more of vinegar, and cool. Two table- 
spoonfuls of grated horse-radish and sugar to taste 
may be added. Prepare the beets according to direc- 
tions given for boiled beets, and when peeled and 
sliced cover with the spiced vinegar. Let these stand 
for several hours before using. 

Beets with Pink Sauce. — Prepare according to 
directions given for boiled beets. Peel and cut into 
dice, saving the juice. Make a drawn-butter sauce, 

39 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

seasoning with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Re- 
heat the beets in the sauce until the sauce is coloured. 

Beet Saut^. — Prepare according to directions given 
for boiled beets. When peeled and sHced fry in 
butter, seasoning with pepper and sugar, serve hot. 

Beets Green. — Use young beets, no larger than a 
walnut. Don't cut off the tops. Wash thoroughly in 
several waters, using salt water first. Cook quickly 
in salted water until tender, drain, cut off the tops, 
and skin the beets by plunging into cold water and 
rubbing off the skins. Drain the greens, cut them 
up, and mix with the beets, season with salt and 
pepper, add melted butter and vinegar or lemon juice. 
Garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Serve cold. 

Beets a la Barbette. — Wash the beets and cook 
in boiling salted water until tender, leaving on a 
portion of the stalk. Rub off the peel, slice, season 
with salt, pepper, and brown sugar, and a little cara- 
way seed. Pour over vinegar to taste, and let them 
stand several hours before using. For a relish beets 
may be chopped fine and mixed with an equal 
quantity of grated horse-radish. 

Beets k la Bechamel. — Prepare according to direc- 
tions given for boiled beets, and reheat in Bdchamel 
sauce. 

Beets a la Chartreuse. — Prepare according to direc- 
tions for boiled beets. Cut a very thin slice of 
onion for every two slices of beet, and sandwich a 
slice of onion between each two, pressing together 
gently. Season with salt, pepper and vinegar, dip 
in butter, and fry slowly in deep fat, or butter, or oil. 

40 



BORAGE 

Beets k la St. Laurence. — Previously prepare ac- 
cording to boiled beets. Fry a chopped onion in 
butter, dredge with flour, add two cupfuls of vege- 
table stock or milk, and cook until thick, stirring con- 
stantly. Add the beets, salt and pepper to taste, 
and cook for ten minutes; add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and one of vinegar, bring to the boil, and 
serve. 

Beet-greens or Tops k I'Anglaise. — ^Wash thor- 
oughly and pick apart tender young beet tops. Cook 
until tender in a covered saucepan, using only enough 
melted butter to keep from burning. When tender, 
season with pepper and salt, add melted butter. 
Garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

BORAGE {Boraginacece). 

Sow in March and April in any ordinary garden 
soil in shallow drills a foot apart. Thin out the 
seedlings to a foot apart and keep the ground hoed 
between. The young leaves are used for claret, 
champagne, ginger ale cups, and as flavouring and 
garnishing for salads. 

Borecole or Kale. — For culture see under Cabbage. 

Broccoli. — For culture see under Cabbage. 

BROCCOLI DISHES. 

Boiled Broccoli. — To each half gallon of water 
allow one tablespoonful of salt and a tiny bit of 
soda ; strip off the outside leaves, cut off the inside 
ones level with the flower ; cut off the stalks close to 

41 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the bottoms, and put the broccoli into cold salted 
water or vinegar and water, heads downwards, let 
them remain for about three-quarters of an hour, then 
put them into a saucepan of boiling water salted in 
the above proportion, and keep them boiling gently 
with the stalks upwards and the saucepan uncovered. 
Take up with a slice the moment they are done, 
drain well, and serve with a tureen of melted butter, 
a little of which should be poured over the broccoli. 
If left in the water after it is done the broccoU will 
break, its colour will be spoilt, and its crispness lost. 
If boiled too fast it will break. 

Note. — It is a good plan to place a small piece of 
toast or bread in the saucepan in which green vege- 
tables are boiled, as this absorbs the unpleasant odour 
generated during the cooking. 

Broccoli au Gratin. — Boil the broccoli according to 
directions, put in a tureen, and sprinkle over a little 
pepper and quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan 
cheese, put in the oven for five minutes until the 
cheese is melted. 

Mould of Broccoli. — Butter a mould, and put in 
the parboiled flower broken in smallish pieces, pour 
in a good white sauce in which two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese have been dissolved, a squeeze of 
lemon juice, and two hard-boiled eggs chopped up ; 
the eggs should be placed among the broccoli ; pour 
in the sauce, cover with buttered paper, and steam 
for one hour or bake for half an hour. 

Brussels Sprouts.^-For culture, see under Cabbage. 



42 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS DISHES. 

Boiled Brussels Sprouts.— Wash and pick over the 
sprouts and boil until tender (about twenty minutes to 
half an hour), in water to which a little salt and a pinch 
of soda have been added. Drain, and reheat with an 
ounce of butter with a little salt and pepper, but do 
not fry them. 

Brussels Sprouts with Cream Sauce.— Trim off the 
loose leaves and soak for half an hour in cold salted 
water. Boil in sufficient water to cover them, add 
a little salt and a piece of soda the size of a pea, season 
with pepper, and pour over a cupful of cream sauce. 
Simmer for five or ten minutes and serve, or reheat 
in Bechamel sauce, or in melted butter. 

Brussels Sprouts Saut6.— (i) Boil the cleaned sprouts 
for twenty minutes in salted water with a pinch of 
soda, drain, fry in butter. Season with minced parsley 
and pepper, and serve. Grated nutmeg may be 
added or one or two spoonfuls of white wine vinegar. 

(2) Clean and trim one quart of sprouts and soak in 
cold water for half an hour. Then cook for half an 
hour in salted boiling water with a little soda ; drain, 
and add three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Sprinkle with 
pepper, and shake the pan over the fire until they are 
slightly coloured. Serve at once. 

Brussels Sprouts with Cream. — Prepare the sprouts 
according to directions given for boiled sprouts, 
drain and reheat with a little Bechamel sauce, 
season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; heat 
thoroughly, add a little cream, bring slowly to the 
boil, and serve. 

43 



- THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Brussels Sprouts au Gratin. — Prepare according 
to directions given for Brussels sprouts with cream 
sauce. Put in a buttered baking-dish. Sprinkle with 
crumbs, dot with butter, and brown in the oven. 

Brussels Sprouts alia Parmesan. — Boil the sprouts 
until tender in salted water, and drain. Arrange in 
a baking-dish with alternate layers of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Season with salt, pepper, and melted butter, 
and serve very hot. 

Brussels Sprouts alia Chlpolata. — Wash and trim 
one quart of Brussels sprouts, cook for five minutes 
in boiling salted water with a pinch of soda. Drain 
and rinse in cold water. Drain and recook in 
boiling water to cover. Cook for twelve minutes and 
drain very dry. Serve with melted butter poured over. 

CABBAGE {Brassica Oleracea. Cruciferce). 

It seems better to deal with the culture of the gene- 
raUty of Brassicas together, and to first speak of the 
conditions under which all flourish, noting any special 
requirement of a subject under its own heading. 

Cabbage-kind without any exception are greedy 
feeders, they like holding soil ; stiffish loam, even if 
it verges on clay, will suit them all. Waterlogged 
ground of course will not do for them ; heavy soil 
must be well drained to be of use. But they are none 
of them over particular; given space, nourishment, and 
firm ground they will do well in any good garden soil. 

It is unwise to crop ground continuously with 
Brassicas, in which class turnips are included, as the 
disease called clubroot is apt to infest cabbage-stale 

44 



CABBAGE 

soil, and is difficult to overcome. Dressings of lime 
are a preventive of this, and in many soils should be 
applied every third winter, four pounds to a rod 
of land. Lime, indeed, is a most valuable aid to 
culture ; it sets free the nitrogenous constituents of 
the earth, and almost every kitchen crop is the better 
for its generous use. 

Speaking generally, ground should be prepared for 
cabbages by trenching in a good supply of fairly 
fresh manure some two or three months before 
planting, as the earth should have time to settle and 
consolidate, since a light open condition of the soil 
tends to produce lank, long-jointed greens, while firm 
ground will grow compact and well-shaped cabbage 
or sprout. 

Cabbage-kind is in season for every month of the 
year, though in July and August it is apt to be 
infested with green caterpillars, offspring of the 
common white butterfly, yet in these months there 
is such an abundance of other vegetables that then 
it is in least request. 

COMMON CABBAGE {Brassica olerata capitata). 

There are two chief sowing months for cabbage, 
April and August, but the latter is far the most 
important from the point of view of the cook, as it pro- 
vides those exquisite spring cabbage, which, properly 
served, are among the very best of vegetables. 

At the end of March or the beginning of April, sow 
in the open a good compact variety of medium-sized 
cabbage. When the plants are large enough to 

45 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

handle, prick them out six inches apart in nursery 
beds, and plant in their permanent quarters in June 
and July. They should stand eighteen inches to two 
feet apart, according to the vigour of the variety 
selected. This comparatively early sowing will give 
early autumn cabbage. A late April sowing will 
provide plants which will heart in November and 
December. Cabbage follows peas or broad beans well, 
but we think'that in the small garden it is wasteful to 
give too much room to autumn cabbage and so stint 
space for Brussels sprouts and autumn broccoli. 

In cold soils and in the north of England a sowing 
of Flower of Spring cabbage should be made about 
the twentieth of July, in southern England the seventh 
of August is a better date. These cabbage should be 
pricked out as soon as large enough, and planted in 
their permanent quarters in September, though even 
November is sometimes not too late. It is good 
practice to put these spring cabbage in rows fifteen 
inches apart in light soil, eighteen inches in heavier 
ground, and to crowd them in the row even as near as 
six inches apart. In this case two out of every three 
plants can be drawn to serve as winter greens, leaving 
the rest spaced eighteen inches i distant to heart in 
April, May, and even June. 

After cutting cabbage, if there is no immediate need 
to pull up the stumps, a second crop of very delicious 
sprouts will in open weather quickly appear. 

Red Pickling Cabbage should be sown in April 
and treated as ordinary autumn cabbage. They must 
be put out quite thirty inches apart. 

46 



BROCCOLI 

Ohow-Chow or Chinese Cabbage.— It is cultivated in 
the same way as turnips. It succeeds best when sown 
about August in drills, with a space from twelve to 
eighteen inches between the rows, and the drills 
thinned out to about nine inches or one foot apart. 
The leaves can be eaten boiled like ordinary borecole, 
or the midribs can be sent to table like asparagus or 
chard or seakale beet. 



BROCCOLI {Brassica olerata Botrytis). 

This valuable subject is, in its hearting varieties, 
almost indistinguishable from cauliflower, from which 
it is probably derived, but it has the great added merit 
of hardiness. It requires similar soil and treatment to 
the rest of the cabbages, but a few special points 
about its culture should be noted. 

The first sowing of autumn and winter cropping 
varieties should be made in March in a cold frame. 
The plants must be pricked out and hardened off, and 
finally be planted in May in their permanent quarters. 
We find it good practice, in a small garden, to set 
them between the rows of early potatoes on the 
day they are finally earthed up. For this purpose the 
potato rows should be thirty inches apart, and the 
broccoli should be two feet apart in the row. When 
the potatoes are dug in July the earth is laid level 
round the stems of the broccoli, an ounce to the 
square yard of nitrate of soda is sprinkled round the 
plants, and the earth trodden firm. From this plant- 

47 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

ing fine heads may be cut in late September and 
sometimes on to December. 

The main sowing of Broccoli is made out of doors 
in April, when early and late spring flowering sorts 
should be sown, as well as purple sprouting broccoli. 
As soon as large enough rather more than sufficient 
plants should be pricked out into a nursery bed six 
inches apart, and these will follow green peas, or 
broad beans about mid-July, without any digging of 
the ground beyond a slight surface forking and 
levelling. They should be put out two feet apart in 
every way and be well watered in. Dwarf cabbage 
lettuce may be put out between at the same time ; they 
will be quickly cleared away. 

When the plants are starting growth in the spring, 
a sprinkling of nitrate of soda will help in the pro- 
duction of fine heads. It is also a good thing to give 
them a mulch of manure in early February. 

Cauliflower does not differ botanically from broc- 
coli, but it is more tender and difficult. The heads 
have, perhaps, a more delicate quality, but we confess 
that in the small garden we now only grow the 
Autumn Giant Cauliflower, which comes in earlier 
than the broccoli, and we depend on the latter for the 
rest of the year. 

Cauliflower that are to be cut in the following 
summer should be sown about mid- August; they 
must be well watered and weeded, and cold frames 
must be made ready for them, by placing six inches 
of good light soil over a layer of rubble or ash. In 
October, or early in November, set the plants four 

48 



BROCCOLI 

inches apart in these frames, and give a good water- 
ing ; if necessary keep shaded from excessive sun for 
a few days. Admit plenty of air, and do not let them 
dry out, but be sparing with the water-pot after the 
plants are once established. On fine warm days take 
the lights off altogether, keep closed during frost, and 
do not let fog have too free an entry ; pick any yellow 
leaves as they show. If frost is severe, cover with 
mats. Plant out at the end of March, two feet apart, 
in really rich soil in a warm border ; keep watered if 
necessary, and after they are well settled in give a 
dose of nitrate, half an ounce to the square yard, and 
repeat this a fortnight later during a shower if possible. 

For autumn use sow Autumn Giant in a frame 
and treat as prescribed for Brussels sprouts. A 
sowing of a quick variety in heat in February will 
give heads in summer ; they need to be kept growing 
all the time, and never to be checked by drought or 
cold or allowed to flag for want of water. 

Brussels Sprouts. — In the judgment of many this is 
the finest all round winter vegetable, and it is worth 
while going to considerable trouble to grow it well. 
It needs good soil, plenty of nourishment, and a long 
growing season to bring it to perfection. Ground 
which has been trenched and heavily manured in the 
late winter will grow the best sprouts, and in large 
gardens it is well worth while to reserve a plot for 
them, off which possibly spinach, or some quick crop 
such as lettuce or radishes, may be gathered before 
May, But well consolidated rich soil is necessary to 
the growth of sprouts. 

49 D 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Where there is space and it is desired to have 
Brussels sprouts as early as September, a sowing 
should be made in mild heat at the end of January. 
The plants should be pricked out in a cold frame 
early in March and planted in their permanent position 
by the end of the month, choosing a well sheltered 
sunny bed. 

There is no doubt, however, that Brussels sprouts 
should have a frost on them before they are really fit 
to eat, and the vegetable cannot, normally, be had in 
perfection before the middle of October. For this 
crop and the main crop generally sow in a frame 
about the second week of March, prick out four 
inches apart into boxes which have an inch layer of 
old manure at bottom and three or four inches of 
light rich compost on top. Harden these off gradu- 
ally, keep them growing on in the open, never letting 
them get dry, and plant out at the end of April or 
the beginning of May, thirty inches apart in every 
direction. Beyond keeping them free from weeds, 
nothing more is needed, and this sowing will keep the 
gardener going until February, for short-jointed, well- 
ripened Brussels sprout plants are among the very 
hardiest of our winter vegetables. 

If late sprouts are required, a sowing out of doors 
early in April will give the necessary plants for a late 
succession, but it is a crop that cannot be hurried or 
forced ; Brussels sprouts must have a long growing 
season. 

In the small garden the March sowing will be 
sufficient, and the plants may be put out between the 

5° 



BORECOLE 

rows of early potatoes. With care, we find this 
extremely good practice, especially if the potato 
ground has had a good preparation with kainit as 
well as manure. If the potato haulm gets too 
vigorous and shows signs of smothering the sprouts 
we lay it by hand along the ridge tops, and when the 
potatoes are lifted we give a dose of nitrate and 
tread the ground as recommended for broccoli. A 
further sprinkle of nitrate is given during showers in 
August. 

BORECOLE or KALE {Brassica oleracea acepkala). 

This is a section of extremely hardy cabbages well 
calculated to withstand the hardest weather, and to 
provide winter greens in abundance, as well as the 
most delicious sprouts in spring. Indeed the side 
shoots which sprout forth in March are perhaps the 
most precious part of the yield of these subjects. 

Cottagers, Scotch and Dwarf-curled Kale are per- 
haps the most useful varieties. The first two are 
taller and require more space than the last. The 
sowing time for all is in April ; they should be sown 
out of doors, pricked out in a nursery-bed as soon as 
large enough, and planted out as ground comes 
vacant from summer crops. The taller sorts should 
be put thirty inches apart, the dwarfer kinds may be 
in rows two feet apart and the plants twenty inches in 
the row, but in strong soils two feet should be a 
minimum distance. 

The cabbage tops of the kale can be gathered at 

51 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

any time during the winter, and if the stumps are left 
in the ground many dishes of side shoots will be 
gathered in March, 

Oouve Tronchuda or Portugal Cabbage. — This is a 
most delicious variety, and should be sown in early 
April, and planted in rich soil as soon as large 
enough ; the plants should stand at least two feet 
apart. Much depends on continuous growth ; the 
plants do not come to great perfection if they suffer 
an undue check. In the autumn the head makes a 
first-rate cabbage, and the thick midribs of the 
larger leaves make an unusual and excellent dish if 
thoroughly cooked (an hour at least) and served with 
white sauce in the manner of seakale. This subject 
does not stand frost well and should be cleared off the 
ground by Christmas. 

SAVOY CABBAGE {Brassica olerata bullata). 

Savoys should be sown out of doors in April and 
treated as autumn cabbage. They are nearly allied to 
the Brussels sprouts and require some frost to bring 
them to perfection ; they may be considered early 
winter cabbage. 

CABBAGE DISHES. 

Baked Cabbage.— (i) Boil cabbage till tender in 
two waters. Drain and set aside until cool, then 
chop finely. Mix together two beaten eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, a saltspoonful of salt, and a 
dash of paprika. Stir this into the chopped cabbage 

52 



CABBAGE DISHES 

and put it into a buttered pudding-dish, sprinkle 
bread crumbs over the top, and bake until brown. 

(2) Boil the cabbage until tender, changing the 
water once, drain, cut it finely, season with salt and 
pepper. Butter a baking-dish, put in a layer of 
cabbage, and cover with cream or tomato sauce. 
Sprinkle with crumbs on the top, and bake for half 
an hour. 

(3) Trim and quarter a head of cabbage, boil until 
tender in salted water to cover. Drain thoroughly, 
and put into a baking-dish. Pour over a cupful of 
cream, a tablespoonful of butter. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Make a hollow in the centre and break 
an egg into it. Bake in the oven until the cabbage is 
brown and the egg set. 

Steamed Cabbagfe. — Wash and chop up a cabbage, 
put it in the boilerette with salt, pepper, and an 
ounce of nutter. Steam for two hours. 
. Fricass6 of Cabbage. — Boil and chop, as in the last 
recipe, and keep hot while you cook together in a 
saucepan a tablespoonful of butter and a tablespoonful 
of flour, stir in a cupful of hot milk, stir to a smooth 
sauce, when it bubbles turn into this the chopped 
cabbage, cook for a minute, season and serve. 

Shredded Cabbage, — Cut a cabbage into shreds and 
put it into boiling salted water until tender, drain, and 
stand in a heated colander on the side of the range. 
Cook together two tablespoonfuls of butter and two 
heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, season with salt and 
pepper, and stir in three heaped tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese, and cook, stirring constantly for just 

S3 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

one minute. Turn the cabbage into a deep vegetable- 
dish and pour the cheese sauce over it. 

Cabbage Cream Salad — Prepare as in the preced- 
ing recipe ; after boiling cut the shreds into lengths 
before dropping them into cold water. Beat half a pint 
of cream very stiff, drain the cabbage, sprinkle lightly 
with salt, and stir it into the whipped cream, turning 
and tossing until it is thoroughly coated with the 
white foam. Serve at once with crackers. The 
cabbage should be tender and crisp for this dish. 

Cabbage Soup. — Take a small onion and a little 
parsley and a sprig of rosemary, chop all very fine 
and put in a saucepan to brown, with one ounce of 
butter. Have ready a cabbage washed and cut finely, 
put the cabbage into a saucepan, add three pints of 
water or vegetable stock, and season with pepper and 
salt, and let all stew together for an hour. Boil for 
a quarter of an hour before serving, add one ounce of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Serve with croutons of bread. 

Hot Cabbage Slaw.— (i) Chop half a cabbage finely; 
after boiling pour over a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, and put into the oven. Beat together one 
teaspoonful of mustard and one tablespoonful of olive 
oil, one tablespoonful of sugar and one egg well beaten 
with three-quarters of a cupful of cream. Bring to 
the boil, season with salt and pepper, pour over the 
hot cabbage, and serve. 

(2) Bring a cupful of vinegar to the boil, add a 
teaspoonful each of butter and sugar, half a tea- 
spoonful of made mustard, salt and black pepper 
to taste. Pour over the cabbage which has been 

54 



CABBAGE DISHES 

shredded very finely after being boiled; heat 
thoroughly, and serve. 

(3) Boil a shredded cabbage until tender in salted 
water to cover. Drain thoroughly, pressing out all 
the liquid. Bring to the boil half a cupful of vinegar, 
half a tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper 
to season highly. Pour over the cabbage, mix 
thoroughly, and serve. 

(4) Mix together the beaten yolk of an egg, a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, a cupful of cream, a table- 
spoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of mustard, and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice. Heat thoroughly, 
and when smooth and thick heat the shredded 
cabbage in the sauce, and serve. 

Cold Slaw. — (i) Shred a white cabbage fine, and 
soak in ice water. Make a dressing of the whites of 
two hard-boiled eggs, one yolk of egg well beaten, 
half a cupful of olive oil, the juice of a lemon, and 
mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Drain the 
cabbage thoroughly, mix with the dressing, and serve 
very cold. 

(2) Mix together one saltspoonful of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard, one tablespoonful sugar, one 
yolk of egg lightly beaten, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, and three cupfuls of cream. Cook 
over boiling water, add gradually a quarter of a 
cupful of vinegar, stirring constantly, then put it by 
to cool. Soak the shredded cabbage in cold water 
until crisp, drain, dry thoroughly, mix with the dress- 
ing, and serve very cold. 

(3) Soak a quart of shredded cabbage in cold water 

55 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

for an hour. Cook a tablespoonful each of chopped 
onion and celery in four tablespoonfuls of vinegar for 
fifteen minutes. Thicken half a cupful of boiling 
milk with six tablespoonfuls of cornflour, rubbed 
smooth in a little cold milk. Take from the fire, 
add the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Strain the 
vinegar into the sauce, add a tablespoonful of butter 
broken into small bits, and cool. Drain the cabbage 
thoroughly, mix with the dressing, and serve. 

(4) Shred a small cabbage, cover with cold water, 
and soak for an hour. Beat together two eggs and 
half a cupful of sour cream, add two tablespoonfuls 
of boiling vinegar, one tablespoonful of butter, and 
cook until thick. Take from the fire, season with salt 
and pepper, mix the drained cabbage, cool, and serve. 

Cold Slaw k la Irving. — Shred a cabbage very fine. 
Beat three eggs, and add half a cupful of cream and 
milk, and a tablespoonful of melted butter. Bring to 
the boil four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, with half a 
teaspoonful of dry mustard, salt and pepper to taste. 
Add the egg mixture very slowly, stir constantly, pour 
over the cabbage, and serve very cold. 

Cabbage Balls. — Make a stuffing of one cupful each 
of cooked rice, and lentils, and chopped boiled onion, 
and half a cupful of chopped nuts (peacons preferred), 
add salt and pepper to taste. Cover the shredded 
cabbage with boiling water and let stand until the 
leaves are soft. Cut out the midribs, and roll 
portions of the stuffing into the large soft pieces of 
the leaves. Put the rolls carefully into a buttered 
saucepan, add the juice of a lemon and a clove of 

56 



CABBAGE DISHES 

garlic. Cook slowly for thirty minutes, drain care- 
fully, and strain the liquid. Thicken one and a half 
cupfuls of the liquid with a tablespoonful each of 
butter and flour, the butter to be made into a ball 
with the flour J take from the fire ; add the well-beaten 
yolks of four eggs, and cook over hot water until 
thick and smooth. Season with salt and tarragon 
vinegar, strain over the rolls, and serve hot. 

Oabbage Pudding. — Cut a cabbage very fine and 
put it into a baking-dish with alternate layers of bread 
crumbs. Season with salt and pepper. Fill the pan 
with milk, and bake slowly until done, forty minutes 
to one hour, serve in the baking-dish. 

Dutch Cabbage. — Shred a white cabbage and cook 
it slowly for three or four hours with enough water to 
keep from burning. Half an hour before serving 
season with salt and black pepper, add a cupful of 
sour cream, cook slowly until the liquid is nearly 
absorbed, add a tablespoonful of vinegai', and serve. 

Swedish Cream Cabbage.— Cook shredded cabbage 
for fifteen minutes in boiling water to cover. Drain, 
cover with milk, and add a pinch of ground mace, 
season with salt and pepper. Cook until the milk is 
boiled away, so that it barely moistens the cabbage, 
add a lump of butter, and serve. 

Oabbage k la Flamande. — Shave fine a large red or 
purple cabbage. Cook slowly for fifteen minutes in 
boiling water, drain, and chop fine. Reheat with 
a tablespoonful of butter, and chopped onion. Add 
salt and pepper to season, a dash of powdered cloves 
and a tablespoonful of butter, and serve hot at once. 

57 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Cabbage a la Frangaise. — Chop cold boiled white 
cabbage finely and drain, pressing out the water. 
Season with salt, pepper, and melted butter. Moisten 
with cream and two well-beaten eggs. Turn into a 
buttered frying-pan and cook slowly until brown on 
the under side, place on a hot dish, and turn out. 

Cabbage 3, la Frankfort, — Shred a cabbage, cook 
until soft in a little butter, add an onion stuck with 
cloves. Cover with boiling water and simmer for an 
hour. Remove the onion, add a tablespoon ful of 
vinegar, and serve. 

Cabbage k la Mackenzie. — Shred a cabbage, fine 
soak in ice water and drain thoroughly, and mix with 
cream whipped solid. Season with salt only. Sur- 
round with crackers and toasted cheese. 

Cabbage k la Russe. — Slice a firm cabbage very 
thin, soak for half an hour in cold water, and drain, 
pressing out all the liquid ; cover with boiling water 
and cook uncovered for fifteen minutes. Drain 
thoroughly and reheat for ten minutes with a cupful 
of cream, salt and pepper to season, then add a table- 
spoonful of butter, and serve. 

Sweet and Sour Cabbage, — Shred finely, enough 
cabbage to fill a quart measure, and add two sour 
apples peeled, cored, and sliced ; put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter into a saucepan, and when it is hissing 
hot add the cabbage and apples. Pour over boiling 
water to cover, and cook until tender. Sprinkle two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, season with salt and pepper, 
add four tablespoonfuls of brown sugar and two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. If red cabbage is used, soak 

58 



CABBAGE DISHES 

it in boiling water for half an hour, changing the 
water two or three times. 

Cabbage Hearts and Peas. — Chop finely two cabbage 
hearts, and cook until tender. Cook separately an 
equal quantity of shelled peas, add a teaspoonful of 
chopped mint. Drain, season with salt and black 
pepper, and serve the cabbage piled in the middle of 
the dish, with a border of peas. 

Ohouxbrais^ {Mrs. C. W. Barks' Recipe). — Take a 
nice spring cabbage, split it, and wash in salt and 
water ; put it in a saucepan of boiling water for ten 
minutes. Take it up, drain well on a sieve, put it into 
a casserole for one hour to braise, with a Httle butter 
and pepper and salt, but no stock or water. 

Cabbage k la Bourgeoise. — Clean and cut up a 
cabbage. Fry a tablespoonful of onion in butter, 
add the cabbage with salt and pepper and grated 
nutmeg. Cook over a slow fire, turning frequently 
to prevent burning. 

Savoy Cabbage may be treated in the same way as 
the common cabbage. 



COUVE TRONCHUDA, OR PORTUGAL 
CABBAGE. 

(For culture, see under Cabbage.) 

This cabbage has a delicious flavour quite distinct 
from that of other cabbages. 

Two dishes may be made from it : the . first day, 
boil the heart and the outer leaves, after removing 

59 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the thick white midrib, which must be reserved. 
Cook as any other cabbage. 

Midrib of Portugal Cabbage.— Take the midribs, 
wash in salted water, and boil for an hour in abun- 
dance of boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt 
and a tiny piece of soda. Serve as you would salad 
fry, with rich white sauce poured over. 

CARDOON {Cynara Cardunculus. Compositce). 

This is a subject requiring plenty of room, and 
unless particularly desired is not suited to the small 
garden. It is not often grown in this country, being 
susceptible to frost, and the taste for it being rather 
an acquired one. 

Cardoons are best grown in the way of celery, 
trenches being opened in May, four or five feet 
distant from each other. Old manure should be dug 
into the bottom of the trench. The seeds may either 
be sown in gentle heat in pots, and the plants put out 
in the trenches, care being taken not to break the ball 
of earth, or seeds may be sown in the trenches. In 
the latter case they should be sown in groups of three 
or four, and when they are well up thinned to a 
single plant. On the whole we have found it better 
to raise the plants in a frame, but many growers 
prefer the other method. The plants should stand 
three feet apart in the trenches. 

Watering must be attended to as carefully as with 
celery, and weeds must be kept down. Lettuces or 
other quick crops may be taken off the ground 

60 



CARDOON DISHES 

between the trenches, but before the summer is over 
the great handsome leaves will hang over a wide area. 
In September blanching may begin. It is wise not 
to blanch too many plants at a time, as they quickly 
rot after they have been tied up for four or five weeks. 
Therefore tie and earth up a few plants weekly until 
the end of October. The plants are prickly, and the 
gardener will do well to wear gloves while handling 
them. First draw the leaves together and tie them 
with string lightly. Then swathe straw or haybands 
round them and make all fast with string or bast, 
next earth them up at one operation in the way of 
celery. In four weeks the plants will be ready for 
use. On the approach of winter lift the entire crop 
and store in a cool, dark, frost-free house. 

CARDOON DISHES. 

Plain Cardoons. — Clean and pare two or three 
pounds of cardoons, cut them lengthwise, and 
blanche them with boiling water, then throw them 
into cold water to make them retain their whiteness, 
and dry them on a clean cloth. Cut an onion and a 
carrot into slices, put them into a saucepan with two 
ounces of fresh butter, take out the carrot and onion. 
Mix a tablespoonful of flour into the butter, add some 
water to prevent it burning. As soon as the water is 
boiling throw in the cardoons. When done serve 
up hot. 

Cardoons with Cheese and Sauce. — Prepare the 
cardoons as above, then put them one by one in a 

6i 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

saucepan with one ounce of fresh butter. Salt them 
a little and add about three-quarters of an ounce of 
parsley, and a little Bechamel sauce, lastly add an 
ounce of grated cheese. Cook them thoroughly, and 
serve hot. 

Cardoons with Oil. — Wash and string the cardoons, 
half boil in salted water, then plunge them into cold 
water. Cut them into pieces about two inches long, 
flour well, and put them in a saucepan with boiling 
pure olive oil ; salt and pepper to taste. Beat up two 
or more eggs according to the quantity of cardoons. 
When they are slightly brown on both sides drain 
and dish them, and pour the eggs over them. Put 
in the oven for a few minutes till the eggs are set. 
Serve hot. 



CARROT {Daucus Carota. Umbelliferce). 

The earliest carrots should be sown in frames on 
a good hotbed early in November. At least four 
inches of a good, light, sandy compost should be 
placed over the surface of the bed. Many sow broad- 
cast, thinning the plants to half an inch distance when 
well up. We prefer to sow in rows four inches apart, 
and to sow forcing radishes between, but very thinly. 
The radishes will be a most welcome crop, and will 
come in and be cleared away long before the carrots. 
Plenty of air and plenty of moisture must be given ; 
on warm days the lights may be quite off the frames 
for an hour or two, but frost must be excluded. 
Thin rigorously to half an inch or rather more, and 

62 



CARROT DISHES 

a delicious crop of young carrots will be harvested in 
February and March. 

A second hotbed started in January will carry the 
cook on until the early outdoor varieties come in. 

The first outdoor sowing should be of such a variety 
as French Horn on a warm well-drained border in 
February. The main crop sowings are made in April 
and May. The carrot does best in a sandy loam, 
with no recent manure in the top spit, but some good 
old stuff in the bottom of the trench is desirable. 
Sow in drills a foot apart ; thin first to one inch, then 
draw the next lot just as they are, as thick as a finger ; 
they will never be better ; leave the rest four to six 
inches apart. Keep the Dutch hoe going between 
the rows and harvest in August or September. There 
is no object in keeping carrots in the ground after 
the tops have died down ; in fact, if showery weather 
sets in the roots are likely to start into growth again 
and split and spoil. Store for winter use in sand in 
a cool cellar. 

CARROT DISHES. 

Carrot Pudding. — One pound of boiled carrots, 
half their bulk in bread crumbs, two eggs, pepper 
and salt, two ounces of butter, and some white sauce. 
Boil the carrots till soft, chop them small, rub them 
through a sieve, add the bread crumbs and butter 
and eggs sufficient to bind the whole together, with 
seasoning to taste. If eggs are not used, a couple of 
teaspoonfuls of flour and a little milk should be put 
in. Butter a pudding basin, put in the mixture, 

63 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

steam for two hours according to size. Turn out the 
pudding, and serve with white sauce poured round it. 

Carrot Souffle. — Take a quarter of a pound of 
boiled carrots, rub through a sieve, add a table- 
spoonful of Parmesan cheese, two tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce, and some butter and seasoning, and 
mix well together. Place in souffle dishes, sprinkle 
with butter and breadcrumbs and brown in the 
oven. 

Carrots saut^ a la Frangaise. — Scrape and wash 
a dozen young carrots, cover with cold salted water, 
and boil until tender. Drain and fry brown in 
butter, adding a pinch of sugar. Season with salt 
and pepper, sprinkle with minced parsley and lemon- 
juice if desired, and serve very hot. 

Spring Carrots. — ^Trim and scrape two bunches of 
spring carrots. Parboil for ten minutes in salted 
water to cover. Drain and rinse in cold water. 
Put into a deep baking-dish, with two tablespoonfuls 
each of butter and sugai-, and two cupfuls of milk 
or vegetable stock. Cover and cook slowly, until 
tender. Drain, reduce the liquid by rapid boiling, 
and thicken with a little flour, and season ; pour over 
the carrots, and serve. 

Carrot Soup. — Put eight or ten finely sliced carrots, 
one onion, two heads of celery sliced, five ounces of 
fresh white haricot beans, four ounces of butter, and 
salt and pepper to taste, in a saucepan. Cook over 
a slow fire for one hour, and stir from time to time. 
Then add about three pints of good stock, boil one 
and a half hours, and rub through a sieve. Add 

64 



CARROT DISHES 

half an ounce of sugar, and serve with cro6tons (fried 
bread). If too thick, add a little stock at intervals. 

Boiled Carrots. — Cook peeled and sliced carrots in 
salted boiling water to cover, for one hour and a half 
or less, according to age and size of the carrots. 
Drain, and serve with melted butter. 

Stewed Carrots. — -(i) Cook a quart of very young 
carrots, cut into dice, in boiling salted water until 
tender, and drain. Thicken the cooking liquid with 
flour rolled in butter. Season with pepper and 
sugar, reheat the carrots in the sauce, and serve. 

(2) Parboil a bunch of carrots, drain, and cut into 
dice. Put into a saucepan with two small onions 
chopped, pepper, salt, and minced parsley to season, 
and enough drawn-butter to moisten. Simmer for 
half an hour, and serve. 

(3) Wash and scrape whole, carrots, and soak them 
for half an hour in cold water. Drain and cook for 
forty-five minutes in salted water to cover. Drain, 
cut into thin slices or dice, and cook for half an hour 
in stock to cover, season with pepper and salt. Add 
four tablespoonfuls of cream or milk and a table- 
spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Bring to the boil 
and serve. Water may be used instead of stock if 
another tablespoonful of butter is added. 

Carrots Stewed in Cream. — Wash and slice enough 

carrots to make two cupfuls. Simmer until nearly 

tender in stock to cover. Add a cupful of cream, 

thicken with a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour, 

season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

Carrots Saut^. — Cut scraped spring carrots into 

65 E 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

thin slices, and cook until tender in water to cover. 
Drain and reheat in butter, seasoning with sugar, 
pepper, and salt. Do not allow the carrots to fry. 
Sprinkle with minced parsley and powdered chervil 
before serving. The chervil may be omitted. 

Barley Soup and Carrots.— Take half a cup of 
pearl barley, three tomatoes, three small carrots, 
three small onions, one potato, one teaspoonful of 
brown sugar, Put three pints of water into a sauce- 
pan, add the barley, the sugar, and the tomatoes 
peeled and cut into small pieces. Stew gently for 
four hours, adding more water if necessary, Cut into 
small dice the three small carrots and the three small 
onions, fry with darlene or other vegetable fat to a 
golden brown, add to the soup one large potato cut 
into dice about half an hour before serving, also the 
fried vegetables. 

Carrot Croquettes. — Boil some carrots till tender in 
two waters. Mash them smooth, add a beaten egg, 
a large spoonful of melted butter, pepper and salt to 
taste, and set the paste aside to become cool enough 
to handle. Form into croquettes with the hands ; egg, 
and roll into fine crumbs, let them stand in a cool 
place half an hour, and fry in deep fat to a good 
brown. 

Carrots and Peas.— Cook separately until tender, 
diced young carrots and green peas. Drain, mix, 
and season with salt and pepper, reheat in white, 
Bdchamel, or cream sauce, or melted butter. 

Compdte of Young Carrots and Green Peas.— Clean 
and cut into dice just enough carrots to make two 

66 



CARROT DISHES 

cupfuls. Cook until tender in salted water, drain, and 
reserve half a cupful of the carrot liquid ; mix the 
carrots with an equa| quantity of cooked green peas, 
sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of flour, add two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper and sugar 
to season, add half a cupful of carrot liquid and half 
a cupful of stock, or use a cupful of either. Cook 
until smooth and thick, stirring constantly. Sprinkle 
with minced parsley, and serve. Carrots and peas 
may also be served with a sweet or sour sauce. 

Carrots and Asparagus. — Reheat in milk, or white 
stock, equal quantities of sliced cooked carrot, and 
cooked asparagus cut into small pieces. Thicken 
with flour, and add the yolk of an egg well beaten. 
Season with salt, pepper, butter, and minced parsley. 

Carrot Timbiiles. — Cook four peeled and sliced 
carrots until tender in stock to cover. Drain and 
mash, add two eggs well-beaten, salt, pepper, and 
grated onion to season, and a tablespoonful of 
cream ; mix thoroughly. Put into small buttered 
timbale moulds, stand them in a baking-pan half 
full of boiling water, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake for twenty minutes, and turn out carefully, 
and surround the border with cooked peas, and 
serve. 

Stewed Carrots. — Take two dozen small carrots, 

wash and scrape them, and put into a saucepan 

with one ounce of loaf sugar, two onions, a bunch 

of sweet herbs, and a bay leaf, add a few spoonfuls of 

vegetable broth, and stew until the carrots are tender. 

Remove the carrots, strain the stock over them, add 

67 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

two tablespoonfuls of cream, make it hot, and pour 
this over the carrots, and serve. 

Carrots k la Flamande. — Trim a bunch of young 
carrots, cover with boiling water, and let them stand 
for live minutes. Drain, rub off the skins with a 
coarse cloth, cut them into thin slices, and cook 
until tender in a cupful of water, with a tablespoonful 
of butter, salt and pepper to season. Take from the 
fire and add the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, with 
a cupful of cream and a tablespoonful of minced 
parsley. Heat gradually until smooth and thick, 
stirring constantly, but do not let it boil. Serve as 
soon as the sauce is smooth. A little sugar and 
grated nutmeg may be added, and half a cupful of 
cream and milk used. 

Carrots k la Lilloise. — Peel, and cut into very thin 
slices two bunches of spring carrots, put into a sauce- 
pan with salted boiling water to cover. Add a tea- 
spoonful or more of sugar and a tablespoonful of 
butter, cover, and cook for half an hour. Add the 
yolks of three eggs beaten with half a cupful of 
cream, a tablespoonful of butter broken into small 
pieces, and heat slowly until the sauce is smooth and 
thick. Sprinkle with minced parsley before serving. 

Carrots k la Majestic. — Cut, peel, and trim some 
carrots into fancy shapes with French vegetable 
cutters. Cook in butter without burning. Moisten 
from time to time with water seasoned with pepper 
and salt and powdered sugar. Before serving add 
a Httle melted butter and sprinkle with minced 
parsley. 

68 



CAULIFLOWER DISHES 

Carrots in White Sauce.^Boil one dozen small 
French carrots in salted water until tender. Drain, 
cut into thin slices and saut6 in butter, and heat in 
white sauce ; season with mace and add a cupful of 
cooked green peas, and serve very hot. 



CAULIFLOWER DISHES. 

(For culture, see under Cabbage.) 

Cauliflower Boiled. — Cauliflowers should be cut just 
before using, so that they may be quite crisp. All the 
leaves but the small ones close to the flower should 
be discarded, as the flavour of the coarser leaves would 
taint the delicacy of the flower. 

Let them stand, head downwards, in strong salted 
water for half an hour before boiling ; by this means 
caterpillars will be cleared out. Have a large sauce- 
pan of boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt and 
a piece of soda the size of a pea. Put the cauli- 
flowers in, and when the water boils up, draw to 
one side and partially remove the lid to let the 
fumes escape, otherwise the flavour will not be so 
deHcate. Time required, twenty minutes to half an 
hour, according to the size of the cauliflower. 

Lift out by thrusting a fork through the thick part 
of the stalk and place carefully on a hot drainer in 
a hot dish. The flower should be unbroken. Pour 
over a rich white sauce, and serve. 

Cauliflower au Gratin. — Prepare and boil as above, 
then put the cauliflower in a hot baking-dish and 

69 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

cover with grated Parmesan cheese, put in the oven 
for a few minutes till the cheese is melted. 

Cauliflower Salad. — Boil a cauliflower (having first 
removed the outside leaves), in salt water and let it 
get cold. Cut in pieces with a silver knife and place in 
a salad-bowl. Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 
mix with salt and pepper to taste, and smooth with 
a wooden spoon, then add three tablespoonfuls of oil 
and three of vinegar, drop by drop, beating with 
the back of the spoon all the time. Mix well, and 
pour over the cauliflower. This salad requires more 
vinegar than others. 

Baked Cauliflower. — (i) Take two cauliflowers, trim 
off the outer leaves, and wash throughly and boil in 
milk and water for twenty minutes, then drain. Mix 
two ounces of Parmesan cheese with two eggs and 
some bread crumbs. Season well with pepper and 
salt, cut the cauliflower into four pieces, dip each 
piece into well-beaten egg and roll in the mixture 
of cheese and bread crumbs, bake in a warm oven 
for ten minutes ; a little white sauce may be poured 
over. Serve very hot. 

Baked Cauliflower ^ la Bechamel. — Boil a cauli- 
flower in salted water for half an hour. Drain and 
break into bits. Put a layer of cauliflower into a pie 
dish and cover with B6chamel or alia Panna sauce. 
Sprinkle with some grated cheese. Fill the dish with 
alternate layers of cauHflower and sauce, and cover the 
top with bread crumbs. Spread with grated cheese 
and bits of butter. Bake in a moderate oven for half 
an hour. Serve hot. 

70 



CAULIFLOWER DISHES 

TimbS,le of Cauliflower.— After removing all the 
leaves, boil a large cauliflower in salted water to cover, 
adding a tablespoonful of salt to the water. Cook 
until soft, drain, and press through a sieve. Soak 
two cupfuls of fresh bread crumbs in milk, squeeze 
dry, press the cauliflower through a sieve. Mix the 
crumbs with the cauliflower, add the yolks of three 
eggs well beaten, a tablespoonful of butter melted, 
salt and pepper to season, and the stiffly beaten whites 
of the eggs. Butter a mould, pour the pur6e into 
it, cover, and cook in boiling water nearly to the 
height of the mould for forty-five minutes. Turn 
out carefully on a serving-dish, pour over it a rich 
cream sauce, and serve. 

Mashed Cauliflower. — (i) Separate a cauliflower into 
florets and cook in boiling salted water until tender 
— not more than ten minutes. Drain, press through 
a sieve, season with salt, pepper, and butter, and a 
little cream or milk, reheat, and serve. 

(2) Boil and separate two heads of cauliflower. 
Fry a teaspoonful of chopped onion in butter and 
press through a sieve with the cauliflower. Moisten 
with cream sauce, season with salt and sugar, and 
reheat, adding a little cream if it is too thick. 

Cauliflower k la Hongroise. — Prepare according to 
directions given for Boiled Cauliflower (i). Drain, 
separate into florets, and arrange in a buttered 
baking-dish. Chop a small onion finely and fry it 
in butter with four tablespoonfuls of stale bread 
crumbs. Cook until brown, spread over the cauli- 
flower, and serve immediately. 

71 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Cauliflower k la Parisienne. — Boil a large cauli- 
flower until tender, drain, chop, and press hard into 
a buttered mould. Turn out on to a dish that will 
stand the heat of the oven. Cook together a table- 
spoonful each of butter and flour, add two cupfuls 
of stewed and strained tomatoes, and cook until thick, 
stirring constantly. Season with salt, pepper, and 
grated onion. Add enough cracker-crumbs to make 
the sauce very thick. Spread over the cauliflower, 
put it into a hot oven for ten minutes, and serve. 

Escalloped Cauliflower. — Boil until tender, sepa- 
rate into small pieces and pack stems downward in 
a buttered baking-dish, or use the cauliflower un- 
broken. Mix with a cupful of bread crumbs, two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and enough cream 
or milk to moisten, pepper and salt to season, and 
one egg well beaten. Spread over the cauliflower, 
cover, and bake for six minutes, then uncover and 
brown. Serve in the same dish. 

Cauliflower in Cheese Shell. — Use an Edam cheese 
shell from which the cheese has been scooped out. 
Fill with creamed cauliflower, sprinkle with cheese, 
and bake on a tin until thoroughly hot. Buttered 
crumbs may be spread over the top if desired. 

Cauliflower in Crusts.— Cut the tops from stale rolls, 
scoop out the crumbs, and toast or fry the shells 
thus made. Fill with creamed cauliflower, and serve 
hot. 

Baked Cauliflower.— (2) Boil a cauliflower, drain 
it, and put it in a baking-pan. Put two ounces of 
butter and one ounce of flpvii into a saucepan, boil it, 

72 



CELERY 

add three-quarters of a pint of milk, stir it continually, 
add a bay leaf, a little chopped parsley, salt, and 
pepper, and stand it in a bain-marie for ten minutes ; 
take out the bay leaf, pour the sauce over the cauli- 
flower, sprinkle it with bread crumbs, add some bits 
of fresh butter, and bake it in a very hot oven for 
a quarter of an hour. 

Cauliflower with Mushroom Sauce. — Cook cauli- 
flower (see Boiled Cauliflower) and dish on slices of 
toast. Have ready the following sauce : Six mush- 
rooms finely chopped, a little pepper and salt. Put 
two ounces of butter in a saucepan, put in the 
mushrooms, draw to one side, and simmer slowly 
for ten minutes or till quite tender, stir in one table- 
spoonful of flour, add half a pint of milk or vegetable 
stock. Stir till smooth and until it bubbles free from 
the side of the pan, then if liked one tablespoonful 
of cream or one yolk of egg may be added, after 
the saucepan is off the fire. Pour over the cauli- 
flower, and serve. 

CELERY {Apium graveolens. Umbelliferce). 

Celery is a subject worth much care and attention. 
We prefer the smaller, better-flavoured varieties such 
as Sulham prize pink or Claywortfi prize pink. These 
are both excellent sorts ; the second is rather larger 
and does not stand the winter quite so well, but 
they are both infinitely superior to the great gross 
sticks grown for the market. Further, we are of 
opinion that early celery is scarcely worth eating, 

73 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the plant needing the effect of frost to develop its 
clean crispness to the uttermost. 

Nevertheless, as folk will have early celery the 
gardener must sow an early variety in heat in 
February. The seedlings need tender handling, and 
must be pricked into rich compost four inches distant 
as soon as they are large enough to handle. Move 
them into a cold frame and keep them growing on 
with plenty of air and moisture, and gradually harden 
them off, plant them in their trenches early as possible 
in May, keep them well watered, begin to earth up in 
July and complete the operation about the middle of 
August, and dig in September as required. 

The main crop should be sown in the frame late in 
March, the plants put out and hardened off as above, 
and planted in the trenches in June and July. The 
latest crop of all may be sown in April, treated in the 
same way, and pricked out in the open six inches 
apart on a rich, not too sunny bed, and finally trans- 
ferred to the trench quite late in July. 

For large varieties the trenches should be quite five 
feet from centre to centre ; for smaller sorts four feet 
is a minimum distance. The trench should be 
eighteen inches wide at the top and about fifteen at 
the bottom. In a trench this width there will be two 
rows of plants a foot apart in the row, the plants 
being placed W fashion. Many prefer a single row, 
in which case the trench need be but a foot wide 
at the bottom. For the main crop the trenches 
should be two spades deep, for the smaller early sorts 
and for the late varieties half this depth will be better ; 

74 



CELERY 

in the latter case the roots will stand well above the 
level between the trenches after earthing up, an 
important consideration, as dryness is thereby pro- 
moted and the plants will better withstand winter 
damp and frost. A liberal supply (quite three inches) 
of manure should be dug deeply into the bottom of 
the trench before planting ; it should be well trodden, 
and a top dressing of soot applied. The celery plants 
must be carefully lifted with a trowel, a few at a time, 
so as to avoid a check, any side-shoots must be 
trimmed off, and any blotched leaves, and they must 
be carefully and firmly planted in the trench. A 
thorough soaking of water must be given immediately 
after planting, whether it is raining or not. 

Celery must be kept well watered through dry 
weather, and water in which soot has been soaking 
must be sprinkled through a rose at least once a 
week, in order to check the celery fly. The attack 
of the celery fly will cause leaves to blister and turn 
brown in blotches ; these blisters contain a maggot 
and must be picked of and burned. 

The first earthing up of main crop celery is done in 
dry weather, late in August. The plants should be 
lightly tied together with bast ; any side shoots must 
be removed and the trench weeded. With the spade 
chop down the sides of the trench and draw the earth 
up to the celery to the height of about six inches. 
This earthing up must be repeated two or three times 
at intervals of about ten days ; the bast should be cut 
away as it will interfere with the growth of the plant 
if left tied. Great care must be exercised to prevent 

75 • 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

any grains of earth trickling down into the heart of 
the plant. 

When finished, the earth should come well up to 
the neck of the plant and the ridge be neatly finished 
off with rather sloping top in order to throw off the 
winter wet. During frost a covering of dry fern laid 
along the top of the ridge will very greatly help to 
prevent the plants from rotting. 

CELERY DISHES. 

Waldorf Salad.— Equal parts of apple and celery 
cubed, served on lettuce with walnuts peeled, and 
sliced cold hard-boiled eggs, with dressing poured 
over it. 

Stewed Celery. — Cut into inch -lengths enough 
celery to make a quart. Cover with boiling salted 
water and cook slowly for half an hour. , Drain the 
celery and strain the cooking liquid. Thicken one 
cupful of the liquid with a tablespoonful each of 
butter and flour cooked together, season with salt 
and pepper, reheat the drained celery in the sauce, 
and serve. Add a little cream to the sauce if desired. 

Celery Sandwiches. — Very finely shredded celery. 
Cream, salt and pepper, thin slices of buttered white 
bread. 

Moisten the celery slightly with the cream, season 
to taste. Place a thin layer between the slices of 
bread and butter, decorate with sprigs of parsley and 
serve. 

Celery with Bread Sauce.— Boil four heads of 

76 



CELERY 

celery until tender, in salted water to cover, and 
drain. Boil a sliced onion until tender, in a pint of 
milk, strain the milk and cook in it enough soft bread 
crumbs to make a smooth sauce. Cut the celery into 
short lengths and reheat in the sauce, seasoning with 
salt, pepper, and a heaped teaspoonful of butter. 

Celery Fritters. — Make a batter of two eggs, one 
cupful of milk, a tablespoonful of melted butter, one 
cupful of flour, and a pinch of salt. Boil until tender 
in salted water stalks of celery cut into four-inch 
lengths, drain, cool, and dry. Dip in batter, fry 
in deep fat, drain, and serve with HoUandaise 
sauce. 

Celery with Cream. — Cut some celery into small 
pieces about two inches long, wash them and dry 
them on a napkin, blanch them and drain. Stir two 
ounces of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of flour, and 
half a pint of good vegetable stock ; add the celery 
and simmer for twenty minutes, beat up two yolks of 
eggs with half a teacupful of cream, and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg ; stir this into the celery, being careful 
not to let it boil again ; serve very hot with cro{itons. 

To Fry Celery. — Prepare the celery as above, boil 
in salted boiling water for a quarter of an hour, then 
dry on a napkin ; beat a fresh egg, stir into it one 
tablespoonful of flour and one cupful of hot vege- 
table stock, add salt and pepper, put the pieces of 
celery into the latter, and then roll them in bread 
crumbs and fry in butter. 

Celery with Parmesan Cheese. — Cook some whole 
heads of celery as above, when drained lay them in a 

77 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

dish, sprinkle with finely grated Parmesan cheese, 
pour melted fresh butter over them, put them into the 
oven till they have taken a good colour, add a little 
gravy, and serve. 

Escalloped Celery. — Chop celery very fine, or cut 
in half-inch lengths, and cook until tender in 
boiling salted water to cover. Drain and reheat in 
in a cream or white sauce. Put into a buttered 
baking-dish in layers, sprinkling each layer with 
grated cheese or crumbs, or both crumbs and grated 
cheese. Have crumbs and cheese on the top, dot 
with butter, and brown in the oven. 

Pur^e of Celery. — Cut into small pieces four heads 
of celery, and put into a saucepan with a sliced 
onion and half a cupful of butter, simmer slowly until 
tender, then add half a cupful of flour, made smooth 
with a little cold milk, and cook until smooth and 
thick, add two cupfuls of milk, stirring constantly. 
Press through a sieve, season with salt, pepper, a 
very little sugar, and butter, and moisten to the 
proper consistency with cream. 

Celery Slaw. — Mix two cupfuls of finely-cut celery 
with the beaten yolk of an egg, a tablespoonful each 
of butter, cream, and vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Mix thoroughly, cover 
tightly, and keep hot, without cooking for twenty 
minutes. Serve either hot or cold. 

CELERIAC. 

Celeriac, or turnip-rooted celery, is an admirable 
vegetable not nearly enough grown in this country. 

78 



TURNIP-ROOTED CHERVIL 

It requires exactly the same treatment as main- 
crop celery, except that it is planted on the flat 
two feet apart in every way. The ground should 
be richly prepared, and should be kept weeded by 
means of the Dutch hoe; the action of this admir- 
able tool results in a most excellent friable state of 
the surface soil, admitting air and preventing evapora- 
tion ; indeed a good Dutch hoeing is equivalent to a 
thorough soaking of water. The celery fly will attack 
the celeriac in exactly the same way as it does celery 
proper, and the same precautions must be used 
against it. Celeriac stands frost well, and may be 
dug as required through the autumn and winter, 



CHERVIL {Scandix Cerefolium. Umbellifercz). 

Sow in shallow drills a foot apart and thin to a 
foot in the row. Early spring is a good time to 
sow ; the seed will germinate all the year round ; 
probably a couple of sowings four months apart will 
provide sufficient. The leaves are used rather spar- 
ingly in salads, and for various flavouring purposes. 



TURNIP-ROOTED CHERVIL {Chcerophyllum 
bulbosum. Umbelliferce). 

This is one of the subjects whose seed must be 
sown as soon as ripe. There are expedients for 
keeping it unspoilt until spring, but it is better to 
sow in August, in drills a foot apart. Thin the plants 

79 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

to three inches, and later thin again to nine inches 
apart. 

The roots are perfectly hardy, and will be ready 
to use from September onwards the year after the 
seed is sown. 

The roots are eaten boiled in the way of parsnips. 



DISHES. 

Herb Soup. — Sorrel, eschalot, chervil, a little mint 
and parsley. Boil all for a few minutes in a pint of 
milk. Add a good piece of butter and salt to season. 
Boil all together for a minute, then pour it over some 
crusts of bread in a soup-tureen. 

Vegetable and Cream Soup.— Boil three lettuce 
heads, four heads of celery, two onions, a handful of 
chervil, a little sorrel, tarragon, and thyme, in one 
quart of water till well stewed. Strain off the heads 
half an hour before dinner ; let the soup cool, and 
add one pint of fresh cream, or quarter of a pint 
of cream and make up to a pint with milk, with the 
yolks of three eggs; stir well, put it on the fire to 
heat, and do not let it boil. 

Chervil Summer Salad. — (i) Take two large 
cucumbers and one head of celery; peal and slice, 
add a bunch of red radishes, six cold boiled, young 
globe artichokes, cut into quarters, sprinkle with 
finely-chopped chervil, mix, and pour mayonnaise 
sauce over just before serving. 

(2) Take three heads of fresh lettuces, one of 
celery, a little chopped tarragon and chervil, and one 

80 



CHICORY 

or two carrots. Dress with five tablespoonfuls of 
pure olive oil, two of white wine vinegar, one small 
teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Stir well before serving. Cold boiled haricot beans 
or green peas are a good addition. 

Freshly chopped chervil can be added to any salad 
with advantage. It is especially good with small 
boiled potatoes cut in slices, served with either oil 
and vinegar or mayonnaise sauce. 

CHICORY {Cichorium Intybus. Compositce). 

The seeds are sown in June in shallow drills in 
pretty rich ground. The drills should be nine inches 
apart, and the plants thinned to three inches. When 
wanted in winter the roots are Hfted, the leaves 
trimmed off an inch from the crown, and the roots 
stacked in dry earth or sand in a dark cellar or frost- 
free pit. A sprinkle of water will start them into 
growth, and with no other trouble the blanched 
leaves may be gathered in about four weeks' time. 

Witloef, or Brussels chicory, is grown in much the 
same way, except that the plants should stand six 
inches apart in the rows as they grow. From 
November onwards witloef may be blanched, and 
the blanching is done in the following fashion : A 
deep trench is got out as for celery, though no 
manure is put in it, the plants are lifted and trimmed 
to within an inch of the crowns, and are then re- 
planted in this trench about two inches apart, and 
the crowns eight inches from the level of the garden. 

8i F 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

The earth is then returned, fiUing the trench in level ; 
over the trench a heap of hot manure three feet deep 
is piled, and the heads will be ready to dig in about 
three weeks, or rather longer. 

Puree of Chicory. — Cut off the outside leaves and 
trim three or four heads of chicory, wash the inside 
of the leaves well, drain, cook them in boiling salted 
water, put them on a sieve and pour cold water on 
them. Press out all the water and then chop them 
finely. Season one and a half ounces of butter with 
salt and pepper and a little grated nutmeg. Stir the 
chicory and butter over a quick fire with a wooden 
spoon, until they are reduced to a pur6e. Add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of cream sauce and a little castor 
sugar. Any good sauce can be added to this after it 
has been dished up with fried bread. Chicory is good 
in salads with lettuce and other vegetables. 

CHIVES {Allium Sckoenoprasum. LiliacecB). 

This perennial plant is best propagated by dividing 
old roots in spring, the plants may be put a foot 
apart, or may form a continuous edging to a kitchen 
garden path. 

The leaves are used as flavouring for soups, or 
instead of onions in salads. 



CLART {Salvia Sclarea, Labiatee). 

This is best treated as a biennial. Sow in April 
in drills eighteen inches apart, and thin to the same 

82 



CRESS 

distance in the rows. Keep the Dutch hoe going 
through dry weather, and do not let the plants flag 
for want of water. 

The leaves are used as a flavouring for soups, &c. 
They should be gathered in August, dried, rubbed 
through a sieve, and stored in bottles for use. 

CORIANDER [Coriandrum sativum. Umbelliferce). 

A sunny position should be selected, and the seed 
sown during April in shallow drills twelve inches 
apart ; thin the plants out to six inches. 

The seeds are harvested in August, dried, and stored 
in bottles. They are used as flavouring. 

CORN SALAD ( Valerianella olitoria. Valerianacce). 

This native plant is well worth growing as a basis 
for winter salads. It may be sown in any odd corner 
during August, the plants thinned to four inches, and 
used as wanted from November to March. 

COUVE TRONCHUDA (see Cabbage). 

CRESS {Lepidum sativum. Cruciferce). 

As soon as there is a mild hotbed available, or 
a corner in a house, from January onwards, make 
successive sowings of this about every ten days. 
Spread the seed on a garden mat, water well, and 
cut in ten days ; this avoids grittiness. If sown on 

83 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

soil do not cover it, but simply press it down with 
the back of a dry spade. From March onwards it 
may be sown in the open as often as desired. In 
October again resort to cold frames, and later to 
heat. 



AMERICAN ORESS (Erysimum prcecox. Crucifer(B). 

This biennial plant may be sown from March to 
September, and the plants thinned to six inches. It 
is easier in ordinary gardens than water-cress, but 
greatly inferior to it in quality — being much coarser 
and hotter in flavour. 



WATER-CRESS [Nasturtium officinale. Cruciferee). 

Not worth growing unless there be a natural supply 
of water available. If this be the case beds should 
be trenched and manured, and cuttings (or seedling 
plants) put out six inches apart, and water allowed 
to flow over the bed. Or the plants may be set by 
the margin of a stream or pond. 

To raise from seed sow in a shallow trench. Keep 
watered, and admit water gradually as the plants 
grow. 

It is used in salads, and as a garnishing with poultry 
and game. 

Cress Salad. — Wash carefully any kind of cress 
or lettuce, and dry without bruising ; put them in 
a salad bowl with a whole raw onion; shake over 
them a little very finely chopped chervil. Then put 

84 



CUCUMBER 

a pinch of salt and pepper in a tablespoon, fill the 
spoon with olive oil, stir very carefully with a fork till 
the salt and pepper are melted, pour over the cress, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of good salad oil, stir 
thoroughly, and add one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
remove the onion, and serve. 

CUCUMBER {Cucumis sativus. Ord. Cucurbitacem). 

Though needing daily attention, the cucumber is 
well worth growing in the small garden if the gar- 
dener can give the necessary few minutes to its care 
morning and night. 

Seed, both of a frame variety, such as " Telegraph," 
and of a ridge variety suited to outdoor culture, 
should be sown in the hotbed in March. The seed 
should be sown in 3-inch pots, a single seed to a 
pot, well watered, and a sheet of glass laid over to 
keep the moisture in. 

As the plants grow, they will soon need to be 
shifted into larger pots ; they must be kept growing ; 
warmth and moisture are essential. About the be- 
■ginning of May the cucumbers must be planted out 
in the frame, one plant under each light. About four 
inches of earth should be laid on the surface of the 
hotbed, and the plants put out. 

It is good practice to stop the top of the shoots 
when they are about eight inches long to induce 
the plants to throw back. Water should be given 
in abundance, and air must be admitted for some 
hours during the heat of the day. If the heat dies 

85 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

out of the hotbed too soon, the frame must be 
protected from cold by mats at night, until the spring 
sunshine is sufficiently strong to fill the frame with 
a store of warmth to last the night. 

It is as well to set the earlier fruit with a camel's- 
hair brush, conveying by its means the pollen to the 
fruit-bearing flowers; later in the season this can 
be left to Nature and the bees. The whole history 
of successful cucumber growing lies in the three 
words, water, warmth, and air ; by their aid first- 
rate fruit may be grown in a frame. The frames 
should not have the lights drawn off or even pushed 
back ; this latter practice is one that gardeners are 
fond of pursuing, but it is fatally productive of cold 
draughts. Pieces of board should be prepared with 
step-like indentations, and by means of these the 
lights may be propped up to varying heights accord- 
ing to the weather. 

Never should the frames be watered less than four 
times a week, and in hot weather water should be 
given both evening and morning. It is a good plan 
to keep a pot full of water in the frame in order to 
ensure that the water should be warmed to the' 
exactly right temperature, as it is a most unscientific 
proceeding to throw cold water over these warmth- 
loving plants. 

Ridge cucumbers will thrive under precisely the 
same treatment as above described, but they may 
need a second shift into larger pots. They must be 
kept in the frame, growing on, until the end of May, 
when they can be planted out in the open, in richly 

86 



CUCUMBER 

made-up ground. It is a usual thing to provide 
southward sloping ridges to grow them on, but this 
is unnecessary if the gardener select some warm and 
sheltered spot, where full sunlight falls most of the 
day. They will need daily watering, and will throw, 
in a favourable season, an astonishing quantity of 
small, well-flavoured fruit. 

DISHES. 

Cucumber Timb3>les. — Mix one cupful of cooked 
cucumber pulp, and half a cupful of bread crumbs 
with half a cupful of very thick cream sauce, a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice, the yolks of two eggs beaten 
thoroughly, and a few drops of onion juice. Fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, fill small buttered 
timbale-moulds, and bake until firm in a pan of hot 
water. 

Mashed Cucumbers. — Peel and cut up old cucum- 
bers, and boil until soft in salted water to cover. 
Drain, mash, and season with butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Devilled Cucumbers. — Make a sauce of one cupful 
of stewed and strained tomato, half a teaspoonful 
each of salt and made mustard, a teaspoonful of 
sugar, cayenne, and grated onion to season, a table- 
spoonful of olive oil, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Bring to the boil, pour over fried cucumbers, and 
serve. 

Cucumbers on Toast. — Peel and cut two or three 
large cucumbers into half-inch slices. Cover with 

87 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

hot water and stew until tender but not broken. Bring 
a cupful of cream to the boil, add a tablespoonful 
of butter, and salt and pepper to season. Drain the 
cucumber, reheat in the cream, and serve on toast. 

Ragout of Cucumbers and Onions. — Peel and slice 
three cucumbers and two onions. Fry brown in 
butter, dredging with a little flour, add enough water 
to cover, and cook for half an hour. Thicken with 
a teaspoonful each of butter and flour cooked to- 
gether, add salt and pepper to season, and half a 
cupful of stewed and strained tomatoes. Heat 
thoroughly, and serve. 

Stewed Cucumber. — Peel and quarter six cucum- 
bers, remove the seeds, and fry in butter with a 
chopped onion. Take up the cucumbers and cook 
a tablespoonful of flour in the fat remaining in the 
pan. Add one cupful of stock or water and cook 
until thick, stirring constantly. Season to taste with 
salt or pepper and cook the cucumbers in the sauce 
for twenty minutes.' Serve on small squares of 
buttered toast. 

Stuffed Cucumbers.— Peel and split four cucumbers 
and scoop out the seeds. Make a stuffing of one 
cupful of stale bread crumbs, half a cupful of 
chopped nuts, one boiled onion chopped, a table- 
spoonful each of minced parsley and Chutney sauce, 
and salt to season. Stuff the cucumbers, put the 
halves together, and tie into shape with strings. 
Brown in olive oil, add half a cupful of water, and 
bake for an hour and a half, basting frequently. 
Remove the strings and serve. 

88 



CUCUMBER 

Cucumber Fritters. — Make some batter with an 
egg, a cupful of milk, and enough sifted flour to 
thicken it — about a tablespoonful — put some slices 
of peeled cucumbers into sufficient boiling water 
to cover them, let them stand for fifteen minutes, 
drain and wipe them dry, season the slices with 
salt and pepper, dip them into the batter, and fry in 
deep fat. 

Escalloped Cucumbers. — Peel and cut into dice six 
large cucumbers. Butter a baking dish and put in 
a layer of the dice. Season with grated onion and 
lemon juice. Cover with crumbs, dot with butter, 
and season with paprika and celery salt. Repeat 
until the dish is full, having crumbs and butter on 
the top. Cover and bake for an hour, then remove 
the cover and brown. Serve with sauce piquante. 

Cucumber Sliced. — Cut off the pointed end and 
discard, then peel as much as you are likely to 
require — probably half — but do not cut it off. Thinly 
slice with a cucumber knife as far as you have peeled. 
Put the piece that remains in a two-pound jam pot 
with two inches of water in the bottom. Let the 
stalk end be in the water, and the cucumber will 
keep crisp for two days, but the ideal thing is to use 
it as soon as it is severed from the tine. Take the 
thin shces of cucumber and lay them on a flat dish, 
sprinkle with a little salt, and put another plate over 
and leave in a cool place for half an hour. Then 
drain off the brine, and slip the slices on to a glass 
dish, pepper them, and pour a little brown vinegar 
over them, and if liked, half a tablespoonful of olive 

89 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

oil. Serve immediately. Treated in this way cucum- 
ber is more digestible. 

Cucumber and Onion. — Peel and slice the cucum- 
ber, and put in a glass dish ; add a few thin slices of 
raw onion, pepper, and vinegar ; oil if liked. 

Cucumbers are much used to decorate salads. 



DANDELION {Leontodum Taraxacum. Compositce). 

Sow during March or April in shallow drills 
fifteen inches apart. Thin the plants to the same 
distance in the rows. When the plants are large 
enough to use they should be blanched by covering 
with flower-pots inserted over them with a piece of 
slate on top to exclude the light. 

The young leaves, either green or blanched, are 
excellent for salads, generally in addition to lettuce 
or chicory. 

DISHES. 

Dandelions can be cooked in the same manner as 
chicory and spinach. 

Dandelion Greens. — Boil until tender in salted water. 
Drain, chop and season with salt, pepper, butter, and 
vinegar, or lemon juice. 

Dandelion Mixture.— Wash the dandelion leaves 
thoroughly, and put in salted water until tender, 
strain through a colander, pressing with a weight to 
extract all the moisture. Put into a saucepan with 
a little cream, the yolks of two eggs, salt and pepper 
as well as any other seasoning of herbs desired. 

9P 



EGG PLANT 

Heat through, spread the mixture on slices of stale 
bread, and fry quickly in hot butter or dripping. 
Garnish with chopped hard-boiled eggs. Season with 
oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and finely chopped parsley. 

Dandelion as a Vegetable. — Cut off the outer leaves 
and wash well, let them stand in cold water for an 
hour to crisp ; drain and throw into a saucepan of 
boiling water which has been salted, and simmer for 
twenty minutes, or half an hour if full grown. Strain 
through a colander to extract the liquor, then chop. 
Place a good tablespoonful of butter in a stewpan,- 
and when melted add a tablespoonful of flour. Add 
the greens, toss a little with a wooden spoon, and 
season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and moisten 
suitably with stock. Toss for ten minutes longer. 
Add, if you like, a tablespoonful of cream, sweet or 
sour, and serve hot with a garnish of toast cut into 
points, or croutons. Other greens may be treated in 
the same way. 

DILL {Anethum graveolens. Umbelliferd). 

Sow during April in rows twelve inches apart, and 
thin the seedlings to nine inches in the row. Harvest, 
dry, and store the seeds when ripe. 

The green leaves as well as the dried seeds may be 
used as seasoning. 

EGG PLANT {Solanum Melongena. Solanacem)^ 

The egg plant, or Aubergine, is very little cultivated 
in this country. Even under glass it is not raised 

91 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

very successfully. It might be worth while trying it 
on the lines of vegetable marrow culture, or rather on 
that of outdoor tomatoes. In this case the seed 
should be sown in heat in March, the seedlings 
potted up in 48-sized pots and kept growing in the 
hotbed ; as soon as the pots are full of roots repot 
into larger, and so on until the end of May, when the 
plants should be gradually hardened off and finally 
planted in rich soil in a sunny, sheltered position 
about 14th June. Copious watering must be given, 
the fruits thinned, and the plant should be pinched 
back in the way of tomatoes when sufficient are set. 

The fruit is ready to gather when of a fair size, and 
the flavour is more delicious if gathered before too 
old. Generally speaking, the fruit is ready to use 
from August onwards. The French scoop out the 
seeds and stuff the interior with minced herbs, bread- 
crumbs, raw eggs, and lemon juice ; then serve with 
butter. The white kind generally grown for ornament 
is not so well flavoured as the purple, known as the 
Aubergine. 

DISHES. 

Escalloped Egg Plant. — Boil a large egg plant 
until tender, peel and mash, season with butter, 
pepper, and salt ; add two hard-boiled eggs chopped 
finely, and half an onion grated. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of cream ; serve on crodtons very hot. 

Caponata (A Sicilian Dish). — Peel eight aubergines, 
cut them into little pieces ; sprinkle these pieces with 
salt to get rid of the bitterness, and fry them. Cut up 

92 



EGG PLANT 

an onion, fry it lightly in oil, and when it is yellow- 
brown add to it a head of celery well cleaned, and 
also cut in pieces. When all this has cooked about 
three minutes, add capers and olives stoned and cut 
up in quarters. Then add the pur^e you have pre- 
pared from two pounds of tomatoes, with a little 
vinegar and a little sugar, enough to make an acid- 
sweet sauce, cook it all together for a short time, then 
add the fried egg plant to the mixture, and serve up 
on a hot dish. 

Egg Plant Stuffed with Nuts. — Boil an egg plant 
fruit until tender. Split and scoop out the pulp. 
Add a cupful of chopped nuts to one tablespoonful 
each of butter and bread crumbs, salt and pepper to 
season. Mix with two eggs well beaten, fill the shells, 
and bake for an hour. 

Egg Plant Baked with Tomato Sauce. — Cut a 
slice from the top of an egg plant fruit and scoop 
out the pulp. Remove the seeds, and soak the 
pulp in salted water for half an hour. Squeeze dry, 
chop three boiled onions finely, and cook for twenty 
minutes with half the contents of a can of tomatoes, 
adding a bay leaf, a clove, and two sprigs of parsley, 
and a teaspoonful of sugar. Rub through a fine 
sieve. Soak a cupful of bread crumbs in milk, 
squeeze dry, and mix with the egg plant pulp, and 
half of the tomato sauce. Add the yolks of two eggs, 
a tablespoonful of butter, and salt and pepper to 
season. Mix thoroughly, fill the shell of the egg 
plant, sprinkle with crumbs and bake for forty 
minutes, basting with olive oil. Reheat the re- 

93 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

mainder of the pur6e ; season with salt and pepper, 
and add a little butter, then serve separately as a 
sauce. 

Egg Plant k la Provence. — Slice and soak two 
small egg plant fruits, drain, and dip in oil, and broil. 
Put them into a saucepan which has been rubbed with 
garlic, add a chopped onion, a tablespoonful of butter 
or oil, a teaspoonful each of minced parsley and 
anchovy paste, a cupful of stewed strained tomatoes, 
salt and pepper to season. Cook until tender,. and 
serve on toast or with macaroni. 

Stuffed Egg Plant. — Boil an egg plant fruit till 
tender ; remove from the hull, being careful to save as 
many pieces of hull as you wish to serve. Mix with 
the pulp one or two tomatoes, chopped nuts, toasted 
rolled dry biscuit crumbs. Season with chopped 
onions, red and black pepper, and salt. Fry in hot 
butter, fill the pieces of hull with this mixture ; 
sprinkle with dry biscuit crumbs and bits of butter, 
and bake brown. 

Stuffed with Tomatoes. — Parboil an egg plant fruit 
for ten minutes, drain, cool, cut in two lengthwise. 
Scoop out the pulp and mix with a cupful of chopped 
tomatoes, and minced green pepper free from seeds, 
also a cupful of bread crumbs. Season with salt, 
pepper, and melted butter. Fill the shells, bind them 
together with tape, and bake, basting frequently with 
melted butter and hot water. Take up on a hot 
plate; remove the strings, and pour a hot tomato 
sauce around the egg plant. 



94 



ENDIVE 



ENDIVE {Cichorium Endivia. Ord. Compositce). 

Though with care this excellent salad may be grown 
for a large part of the year, yet we find that it has 
an incurable tendency to bolt in hot weather, and, 
after all, if one has lettuce one can do without 
endive; therefore in the small garden we prefer to 
grow it as an autumn and winter crop, and it is this 
very lateness that makes endive so useful. 

Endive should be sown in mid- July; this sowing 
may be followed by a second about the 7th of August. 
As soon as the plants are large enough to handle they 
must be pricked out nine inches apart, in a patch 
of well-prepared ground, well watered in, and kept 
watered through dry weather until rain shall have 
settled them in. 

To be properly enjoyed, endive must be blanched 
for use ; this is effected by either tying the leaves 
together, as certain lettuces are still treated, or flower- 
pots may be inverted over the plants, a piece of, slate 
or other covering ensuring perfect darkness. As soon 
as blanched, endive must be used, as it soon rots after 
the process is complete ; therefore but few plants 
should be tied at a time, and tying should be done 
weekly. 

The first sowing may well be of curled endive, but 
the second should certainly be of the Batavian or 
broad-leaved kind ; this is hardier, and stands winter 
cold and damp better. 

In September, say about the 7th, the frame should 

95 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

be filled with broad-leaved endive. The lights should 
be kept off as long as frosts will allow, and the plants 
kept perfectly hardy. When the lights go on the 
plants should be kept almost dry, little or no water 
being given. The plants in the frame may easily 
be blanched by shaking clean straw or hay over that 
part of the frame that is to be blanched. With this 
treatment endive should certainly be in use at the 
turn of the year. 

Baked Endives. — After trimming and washing some 
heads of endive put them in salted water, with a few 
drops of lemon juice. Drain them, pour a little white 
sauce into a buttered fireproof dish, then add the 
endives with a little vegetable stock ; the white sauce 
should be sufficient to cover the endive. Then add 
grated Gruy^re and Parmesan cheese, bake, and serve. 

FENNEL {Fwniculum Officinale. Umbelliferce). 

Usually propagated by division of old plants in 
March. Plants should stand in rows fifteen inches 
apart, the plants one foot in the row. Any good rich 
garden soil will suit fennel, which is a perennial and 
long-lived subject. The flowering heads should be 
removed as they appear. Gather the youngest and 
freshest leaves for use as required. 

It is a most delightful vegetable, very little known 
in this country. It can be had at Italian greengrocers 
if not procurable elsewhere. It can be cooked in 
stock, like celery and chicory, and served with any 
rich sauce. 

96 



GOURDS 

Fennel Sauce. — Pick the leaves from the stalks, 
wash them well, then put them into boiling water, 
and boil until tender about three-quarters of an hour, 
drain off the water, and chop them finely. Stir them 
into half a pint of boiling white sauce, and simmer for 
ten minutes slowly. 

GOOD EINGr HENRY {Chenopodium Bonus-Henricus. 
ChenopodiacecB). 

This is a perennial plant of easy culture. Sow in a 
seed bed early in April, and as soon as large enough 
prick the seedlings out six inches apart. When well 
grown plant out in permanent bed fifteen inches 
apart. The leaves are used in the same way as 
spinach. 

GOURDS (Cucurbita. Cucurbitacece). 

Sow in hotbed early in April, and keep on growing 
in pots until the end of May, when the plants may be 
hardened off and planted out in sunny positions. It 
is well to take out a hole two feet square and fill it 
with a rich compost for the roots to run in. The 
fruit should be thinned if good examples are required, 
and the plants must have plenty of water. Gourds 
may be trained over trellis or arbour. 

DISHES. 

Pumpkins with Cheese. — Cut twelve young pump- 
kins about the size of a small egg into four pieces, 

97 G 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and remove the seeds and pulp. Put them into a 
saucepan (earthenware for choice), add butter and 
salt, and cook over a hot fire, shaking from time to 
time. Place them in a dish and sprinkle v?ith grated 
Parmesan cheese. Add a tablespoonful of stock to 
some tomato sauce. Pour it over the pumpkins, and 
serve hot. 

Fried Pumpkin. — Dip pieces of squash into batter, 
and fry in deep fat, or mix two cupfuls of mashed, 
cooked squash with three well-beaten eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful of melted 
butter, and flour enough to make a smooth batter. 
Fry by spoonfuls on a griddle or in a frying pan. 

Pumpkinsrand Eggs. — Cut a small young pumpkin 
into rather thin slices, and fry in pure olive oil in a 
fireproof pan. Beat up two or three eggs, and pour 
them over the pumpkin. When the eggs are set serve 
in the pan. 

Italian Dish of Pumpkins.— Cut twelve or more 
young pumpkins, about the size of an egg, into 
slices, removing the seeds and the pulp. Place 
them in an earthenware baking dish, and add some 
pure olive oil. Cook well over a brisk fire ; add salt 
and pepper to taste, and some grated cheese, and 
serve hot. 

Pumpkin Croquettes. — Mix one pint of mashed 

pumpkin or squash, half a cupful of bread-crumbs, 

one tablespoonful of butter, salt and pepper to 

season. Heat thoroughly, shape into croquettes, 

dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Pumpkin Cake. — Boil, mash and cool two pumpkins, 

98 



GOURDS 

season with salt and pepper. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, two* cupf uls of milk, two eggs well 
beaten, and enough flour sifted, with one table- 
spoonful of baking-powder, to make a smooth 
batter. Fry by spoonfuls on a small griddle, and 
serve hot with white sauce. 

Baked Squash or Pumpkins. — Cut into two-inch 
pieces, remove the seeds and strings, put into a 
baking-pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and bake, 
basting with molasses and melted butter. Keep 
covered during the first half hour. Serve in the 
shells, or cut in halves and bake, covered, for two 
hours, remove from the shell, mash, and season with 
salt and pepper. 

Pumpkin Custard. — Boil and mash a squash, 
season with salt, pepper and butter, and add two 
beaten eggs with half a cupful of milk. Mix 
thoroughly, put into a buttered baking-dish, and 
bake in a moderate oven until puffed and brown ; 
it must not boil, or the custard will crack and be 
watery. 

EscaUoped Pumpkin. — Cut crook-neck squashes 
into slices ; peel and boil in salted water for fifteen 
minutes ; drain and put into a buttered baking-dish 
in layers, seasoning each layer with sugar, grated 
nutmeg, and bits of butter. Pour over half a cupful 
water and bake for one hour. Serve in a baking-dish. 

Baked Pumpkins. — Peel, boil and mash, two 
small squashes. Cool, add two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, two eggs well-beaten, half a cupful 
of cream or milk, salt and pepper to season. Turn 

99 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

into a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle with crumbs, 
dot with butter, and bake for fialf an hour. Three 
squashes may be used, if a cupful of milk is added. 

Stuffed Pumpkins. — Simmer two small summer 
squashes for ten minutes in boiling water to cover. 
Cut in halves, scrape out the pulp, remove the seeds, 
and press dry. Chop an onion finely, and add two 
cupfuls of shelled shrimps ; fry in lard, with a 
chopped tomato, a bit of bay leaf and thyme, 
parsley and garlic to season. Add a cupful of 
crumbs, the squash-pulp, salt and pepper to season, 
and one egg well beaten. Mix to a smooth paste, fill 
the shells, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until 
brown. Lobster may be used instead of the shrimps. 



HORSE-RADISH [Cochlearia Armoracta. Ord. 
Crucifer<s). 

Once in the ground, there is no doubt about 
having this relish to the roast beef of old England. 
Indeed horse-radish is so much of a weed that, as 
with Jerusalem artichokes, it had better be grown in 
some otherwise waste corner of the garden where it 
will not interfere with other crops. 

Slips of the roots should be planted in February 
or March in rows twenty inches apart, the plants 
eighteen inches in the row. The ground should be 
deeply dug and well manured. The plants will stand 
through two seasons without deterioration. 



loo 



KOHL-RABI 



DISHES. 

Scraped Horse-Radish. — Wash and scrape the root 
as you would a carrot, then with a sharp knife cut 
thin curling strips lengthwise from the thick end 
down to the point of the root. These are used as a 
decoration and adjunct of roast beef, served in heaps 
round the dish. 

Horse-Radish Sauce. — Wash and scrape the horse- 
radish, then grate as much as is required, standing in 
a strong draught if possible that the pungent aroma 
may be drawn away, or the tears will flow freely. 
To two tablespoonfuls of grated horse-radish add an 
equal quantity of cream, a little pepper and salt, a 
teaspoonful of sugar, and one tablespoonful of vinegar, 
added slowly, lest it curdle. 

If required with hot beef, the sauce may be made 
hot in a double saucepan, or in a bain-marie, but it 
must not boil. 

KALE (see under Cabbage). 



KOHL-RABI {Brassica Caulo-rapa. Cruciferce). 

This may either.be sown where it is to stand, in 
rows fifteen inches apart, or better, in a seed-bed in 
April and transplanted in May or June to its final 
home. Besides providing a turnip-like swelling of 
the stem, the greens treated in late winter, like 
turnip tops, are quite delicious. 

Kohl-rabi is prepared and cooked in the same 
loi 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

way as turnips and carrots, and the recipes given for 
these may be adapted for the cooking of this 
vegetable. 

DISHES. 

Italian Dish. — Take four kohl-rabis, one head of 
white cabbage, one head of kail, and some beetroot 
leaves, cutting away the stalks and the ribs. Cut the 
kohl-rabi into small pieces, and tear the leaves into 
bits. Wash well and put them into a saucepanful of 
water, with a little minced parsley, and salt to taste. 
Boil for one hour, then pour away nearly all the 
water, leaving just enough to cover the vegetables. 
Add one pint of milk — cream is of course better — and 
boil for fifteen minutes. Meanwhile pound twenty 
leaves of basil and one clove of garlic in a mortar ; 
mix with two ounces of grated cheese and three or 
four tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil. Put one half 
of this into the soup when it has boiled for fifteen 
minutes, and the rest just before serving. 

Cream Eohl-Rabi. — Peel a kohl-rabi ; slice and soak 
in cold water for half an hour. Drain, cover with 
cold water, and cook until tender. Drain, and pour 
over sauce to which has been added the well-beaten 
yolk of an egg 

Kohl-Rabi k I'Espagnol.— Trim and quarter a small 
kohl-rabi, and cook until tender in salted water to 
cover, adding a little butter. Drain, and reheat in a 
well-buttered espagnol sauce. 

Stewed Kohl-Rabi.— (i) Put the tops in cold water. 
Peel and quarter the roots. Cover with cold salted 

I02 



LEEK 

water and boil until tender. Chop the greens fine, 
fry in butter, and add the roots cut into dice. Season 
with salt and pepper, add a cupful of stock, and 
thicken with flour which has been browned in butter. 
(2) Wash, peel, and cut into dice a quart of kohl- 
rabis, and cook in salted water until tender. Cook 
the tops in another pan of boiling water until tender. 
Drain and chop very finely. Cook two tablespoonfuls 
of flour in butter, add one cupful of soup or stock, 
and the chopped greens. When smooth and thick, 
add the cooked dice, reheat and serve. 

LEEK {Allium Porrum. Liliacece). 

The leek is useful in almost any size ; even the 
smallest go well in soup ; but to be enjoyed it should 
be well grown. A long growing season is indispens- 
able to make good roots, and it is also of great im- 
portance that the leeks should be kept growing 
through dry weather, or they may prove tough and 
indigestible. 

Sow, then, leeks in a box in the hotbed early in 

March, or they may be sown out of doors in a 

shallow drill as early in spring as genial weather 

gives opportunity, even in February, but we prefer 

the hotbed as being more certain. The plants are 

somewhat slow in their growth, but as soon as they 

are a moderate size they must go into the cold frame 

for a few nights to harden off, and in April they 

should be pricked out in rows, the rows four inches 

apart, and the plants two inches in the rows. 

103 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

In May, when the late peas are sown, it is a good 
practice to put the rows at least four feet apart, even 
for peas of moderate height as "Continuity," and 
between these rows to prepare a strip of ground for 
the leeks. This is done by digging in an eighteen- 
inch strip a heavy dressing of really fat manure. 
Down this strip draw two deep furrows with the hoe, 
nine inches apart, and in these furrows dib out the 
leeks, as deeply as their first leaf, nine inches apart in 
the row. These furrows are an aid to watering, and 
in September, say the fourteenth, the earth can be 
hoed over, levelling and filling in the furrows, and 
thus blanching a few further inches of the leeks. 

This is a crop that may remain in the ground all 
the winter and be dug as needed. In showery 
weather it is advantageous to give dressings of 
nitrate, or waterings of weak liquid manure during 
the growing season. 

LEEK DISHES. 

To Boil Leeks.— Prepare the leeks by cutting off 
the roots, the green ends, and the outer leaves, cut 
the stalks into six-inch lengths, put a tablespoonful of 
vinegar and one desertspoonful of salt into a sauce- 
pan of boiling water, tie the leeks into bundles and 
boil them gently till they are perfectly tender— three- 
quarters of an hour or longer if they are very large — 
drain them well, and serve on toast with white sauce 
poured over them. 

Leeks with Parmesan Cheese.- Take fifteen leeks, 
104 



LENTILS 

cut them into two-inch lengths, and put them into 
cold water, boil them in boiling salted water, when 
cooked put them into cold water again, drain and 
dry them, fry in butter over a hot fire, add five table- 
spoonfuls of white or cream sauce, sprinkle with Par- 
mesan cheese and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Mix 
well together, and put into a baking-dish, brown them 
in the oven, and serve hot. 

Leek Omelette. — Make a cheese omelette in the 
usual way, and when ready to roll, put in two leeks 
previously trimmed, and cut up and stewed in brown 
sauce. 



LENTILS (Ervum Lens. Leguminosce). 

Though lentils are not grown in England I give a 
few dishes, as every grocer Can supply them at a 
reasonable price. 

To Boil Lentils. — Soak a breakfast-cupful of lentils 
over-night ; pick out and throw away those that float, 
put into two quarts of boiling salted water, and 
simmer slowly for an hour and a half. Drain and 
serve on toast, putting a little butter on the top of the 
lentils. The water in which the lentils were boiled 
can be used as stock with the addition of onions, 
carrots, parsley, and celery. 

Baked Lentils with Nuts. — Mix a cupful of boiled 
lentils with half a cupful of Brazil nuts chopped 
finely. Season with salt and grated onion. 

Put into a buttered baking-dish with half a cupful 
of water. Make a pastry of two cupfuls flour, and 

105 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

two tablespoonfuls of peanut butter. Moisten with ice 
water and roll out into a crust to cover the baking-dish. 

Cover and bake for one hour. Serve in the same 
dish with cream sauce, drawn butter or tomato sauce. 

Curried Lentils. — (i) Chop finely three large 
onions, three green peppers, one clove of garlic. 
Brown half a pound of washed lentils in butter ; 
add the chopped mixture and cold salted water to 
cover; boil until tender. Drain and add two sliced 
onions fried brown, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and 
one tablespoonful of curry powder. Serve with a 
border of boiled rice. 

Potted Lentil Savoury. — Take a half pint of cooked 
lentils, three ounces of mashed potatoes, two ounces 
of bread crumbs, one beaten egg, a little chopped 
parsley, a little onion juice, salt and pepper, and one 
ounce of butter. 

Put all in a pan, and mix well together, with two 
ounces of grated cheese, stirring all the time. When 
cooked turn into a mortar, pound well, and put into 
potting dishes, covering the tops with melted butter. 
This makes excellent sandwiches with a little mustard 
spread on. 

Lentil Gruel. — A useful and highly nutritious food 
for invalids is lentil gruel or broth. 

To make the gruel, take a desertspoonful of lentil 

flour, mix smooth with some cold milk, and add 

nearly one pint of milk which has been brought to 

the boil. Boil for fifteen minutes and flavour with 

a little cinnamon or vanilla. Serve with toast, and 

sugar to taste. 

io6 



LENTILS 

Lentil flour costs threepence a pound and is 
similar to Revalenta Arabica. 

Lentil Porridge. — Put three ounces of lentil flour, 
a little salt and pepper, into half a pint of cold water, 
stir, and add another half pint of boiling water, put 
it on the fire, and boil for twenty minutes, stir in an 
ounce of butter before serving, some may like a little 
barley meal ; it is better for invalids. 

Lentil Croquettes. — Soak over-night three cupfuls 
of lentils ; drain, and cook slowly for an hour in 
boiling water to cover, drain, press through a 
sieve, season with salt and pepper, add a spoonful 
of minced parsley, two spoonfuls of cream, a tea- 
spoonful of onion juice, and a dash of grated nutmeg, 
cool, shape into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat ; serve with tomato sauce. 

Lentil k I'Egyptien. — Soak two cupfuls of lentils 
over-night, drain and cook until soft in boiling water 
to cover, boil an equal quantity of rice. Cook to- 
gether a can of tomatoes, a chopped onion, a bay 
leaf, and a blade of mace, simmer slowly until it has 
the consistency of a thick sauce, drain the lentils, 
mix with the rice and one or two pounded cardamom 
seeds. Press the tomatoes through a sieve, add a 
heaped tablespoonful of butter, pour over the lentils, 
and serve. 

Lentil Omelette. — Make an omelette in the usual 
way ; put on a tablespoonful of cooked and drained 
lentils, which have been tossed in butter ; fold the 
omelette over ; serve with tomato sauce. 

An Italian Dish. — Soak a pint of lentils in cold 
107 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

water for twelve hours, strain them, put them into 
hot water, bring to the boiling-point quickly, then 
simmer slowly for an hour ; after draining, cook 
them in boiling water till quite soft, pass, them 
through a sieve, add two ounces of butter, a very 
little onion juice, salt and pepper, and stir the whole 
for a quarter of an hour over the fire, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of cream before serving. 

Lentil Toast. — Thoroughly rinse five ounces of 
lentils, put into a small saucepan with enough water to 
well cover them, cook slowly till tender and the 
water is all absorbed — ten to twenty minutes — add 
butter, pepper, salt, spread the mixture thickly on hot 
buttered toast, and serve with mint sauce ; suitable as 
a supper or breakfast dish. — Mrs. C. W. EarUs 
recipe. 

Lentil Soup. — Put a quarter of a pound of brown 
German lentils to soak in cold water the day before 
they are wanted ; boil them over a hot fire, being 
careful to cover them, and only put enough water 
to soak them, draw to one side and simmer slowly, 
keep adding a little water, removing from the surface 
any scum or skins, fry an onion until brown in butter, 
add a tablespoonful of flour, and pour into the lentil 
soup gradually, stirring well all the time ; add hot 
water if necessary and salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve with crusts of fried bread. — Mrs. C. W. Earle's 
recipe. 



io8 



LETTUCE 



LETTUCE {Lactuca sativa. Ord. Compositce). 

The first sowing should be made early in March, 
some such early cabbage variety as " Tom Thumb " 
or " Commodore Nutt " being selected. This sowing 
should be made in a box in the hotbed, and at the 
same time a sowing both of early and later sorts 
may go into the cold frame or warm border for 
succession. As soon as the seedlings are up the 
box must go into the cold frame to harden the plants 
off, and early in April they may be pricked out in 
a warm bed, six inches apart. Any surplus seedlings 
here or in the cold frame should go into the salad 
bowl. Indeed these lettuce thinnings are so useful, 
that it is almost worth while to grow them like 
mustard and cress for cutting when the leaves are 
but three inches long. 

Towards the middle of March sowings may be 
made out of doors of both cos and cabbage varieties. 
These sowings should be repeated about every three 
weeks through the spring and summer. As the plants 
come on they should be pricked out a foot apart 
in between other crops and in any odd corner. If 
lettuces be put out about May 14 between the 
third and fourth sowing of peas, it is a good way 
of ensuring succession to put out a main crop lettuce 
a foot apart and dib in the intervals a " Tom Thumb." 
The latter will come to maturity and be off the ground 
well out of the way of the larger sort. 

In hot, dry soils we find that the cos lettuce is very 
109 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

apt to run to seed without forming heart. On this 
account some such sort of cabbage lettuce as " Stand- 
well" is preferred for these soils. In a good garden 
soil the White Paris cos cannot be beaten for general 
use. 

About mid-July it is well to sow a row of cabbage 
lettuce on the ridge between celery trenches. This 
sowing should be made very thinly indeed. When 
the plants are nicely up they may be thinned to nine 
inches, and the thinnings transplanted if there be 
room for them. It will be found that the plants 
grown from first to last in the same place will stand 
summer heat better than those that are transplanted, 
and will also come in before them. 

Early in August a last outdoor sowing of "Tom 
Thumb " should give plants that will, some of them, 
provide outdoor salad in October, and some, put into 
a cold frame, will last well into November or even 
to Christmas. 

Lettuces require an open, rich soil and plenty of 
moisture to grow them in perfection. A slight dress- 
ing of nitrate in showery weather, as soon as they 
are well established from planting out, will push them 
forward rapidly, and is specially important for autumn 
lettuces. During dry weather water must be freely 
given ; in order to facilitate the application of water 
it is well to prick out the later plants into shallow 
trenches or drills. 



no 



MAIZE 

DISHES. 

Lettuce forms the foundation of most salads. 

Cream of Lettuce Soup. — Separate four heads of 
lettuce, wash thoroughly, and place in boiling salted 
water. Boil, and cover for ten minutes. Drain, and 
throw into a dish of cold water ; allow them to re- 
main for a few minutes, then drain. Chop finely, 
then rub through a sieve. Have ready one quart 
of hot milk. Rub one tablespoonful of butter and 
flour to a paste ; add to the hot milk, and stir until 
it is thickened ; mix a half spoonful of this with the 
lettuce pulp ; stir until well blended, then add to the 
soup. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Let it 
simmer for about five minutes, and serve with toast 
cut in dice. 

An Italian Dish. — Cut off the roots, and wash clean, 
five or six lettuce heads. Put them into boiling salted 
water for five minutes. Take out, and fill the inside 
with meat of walnuts. Tie the tops together and put 
them in a saucepan. Add one quarter pint of Marsala 
wine, and some good vegetable broth ; salt and pepper 
to taste. Cover the dish with buttered paper, and cook 
in the oven for fifteen minutes. Place the lettuces 
on a hot dish, having untied them, pour the sauce 
over and serve hot. 

MAIZE or INDIAN CORN (Zea Mays. Graminece). 

Though this may be sown in the open in May, it 
is better practice to raise it in pots in the hotbed, 

III 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

sowing in April. The plants should be gradually 
hardened off and put out about the end of May or 
beginning of June in rows thirty inches apart. The 
plants eighteen inches in the row. 



DISHES. 

Com Omelette. — Two eggs, a tin of sweet corn, 
pepper and salt, one ounce of butter. Beat the yolks 
of two eggs, add pepper and salt, and two table- 
spoonfuls of sweet corn. Beat the whites into a very 
stiff froth, and add to the yolks, and stir together. 
Put one ounce of butter in the omelette pan ; when 
very hot put in the omelette. Stir round a few times 
until it begins to set. When brown at the bottom 
place under a grill or in front of a clear fire to 
brown the top. Sprinkle over some parsley which has 
been chopped ; fold over in half, and serve quickly. 

Corn Wafers. — Sift one pint of flour with a heaped 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Add one teaspoonful 
of salt, two well-beaten eggs, and one large cupful 
of milk. Beat the batter very lightly, then stir in 
one can of corn, and bake in waffle irons. Serve 
hot. 

Boiled Corn Bread. — Mix together two cupfuls of 
corn meal, a cup of flour, two cups of sour milk, 
one cup of warm water, a tablespoonful of lard or 
butter, a tablespoonful of molasses, a teaspoonful of 
bicarbonate of soda, and one of salt. Dissolve the 
soda in warm water, and add it to the milk. Beat 
all together and turn into a well greased brown bread 

112 



MAIZE 

mould, with a tightly fitting top. Set this in a pan 
of boiling water and cook steadily for two hours, 
filling up the pan from the kettle as the water boils 
away. At the end of the time, take the mould from 
the water, turn out the bread, dip the tin for a 
pioment in cold water if the bread is inclined to 
stick, and put in the oven for five minutes, so that 
the surface may be dry and a little crisp. 

Raised Corn Bread. — Heat one pint of milk almost 
to boiling, and pour it on one and a half cupfuls of 
green meal. Let it stand until cool, then stir in half a 
yeast cake dissolved in half a cupful of warm water, with 
a tablespoonful of sugar, and half a cup of white flour. 
Let this rise overnight in a corner which is not too 
warm, for five or six hours in a kitchen, of an ordinary 
tem.perature. It should rise to double its first size. 
Then stir, add one teaspoonful of salt and two 
beaten eggs, beat hard ; turn into muffin tins, and 
set in a warm place to rise for fifteen minutes before 
baking. It will require about twenty minutes in a 
steady oven. To be eaten hot. 

Corn Cakes. — Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and put with it three well-beaten eggs, beat lightly, 
add to this a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoonful of boiling water, and stirred 
in two cupfuls of sour milk. Sift two cups of corn 
meal with a teaspoonful of salt, and mix with the 
liquid ingredients. Beat all together and put into a 
shallow tin ; bake in a steady oven. This should be 
a thin sheet when done, and rather crisp. 

Plain Corn Muffins. — Two cupfuls of white corn 
113 H 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

meal, one cup of white flour, two cupfuls of milk, three 
eggs, a tablespoonful each of melted butter and white 
sugar, a small teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. 

Cream together the butter and sugar; mix in the 
eggs, milk, flour, meal, baking powder, and salt sifted 
with the meal and flour, and bake in muffin tins. 
This can also be baked in a loaf if preferred, as can 
also sweet corn muffins. 

Boiled Com. — Remove all the husks, except the 
inner layer. Strip the inner layer back far enough 
to remove the silk ; then replace, and tie at the upper 
end. Boil steadily for fifteen or twenty minutes in 
boiling water to cover, or in equal parts of milk and 
water. Drain, remove the strings, and serve immedi- 
ately in the husks. 

Escalloped Corn. — Rub a can of corn through a 
sieve. Season it with salt, pepper, and sugar. 
Twelve tablespoonfuls of flour, blended with three 
tablespoonfuls of cream, and half a cupful of the 
liquid drained from the corn. 

Put into a buttered baking dish ; cover with crumbs, 
dot with butter, and bake for twenty minutes. 

Broiled Corn.— Split the cobs, brush with melted 
butter and broil carefully, seasoning with salt and 
pepper, and serve. 

Baked Com. — Fill a baking dish with husked ears, 
pour over one pint of milk, sprinkle lightly with 
sugar; add water to cover, and bake for forty-five 
minutes. 

Baked Canned Com. — Put a can of corn into a 
114 



MAIZE 

buttered baking dish, season with salt and pepper. 
Add one cupful of boiling milk, or half a cupful of 
cream, and dot with two tablespoonfuls of butter 
broken into small bits. Cook for forty-five minutes 
in a hot oven, and serve in the same dish. 

Cream Corn. — Remove the husks, and score each 
row of kernels deeply with a sharp knife. Press out 
the pulp with the back of a knife. Cook for twenty 
minutes in a double boiler. Season with salt and 
pepper, add butter and cream, or use cooked corn 
mashed. A little sugar may be added to the 
seasoning. 

Escalloped Com. — Butter a baking dish, and put in 
a layer of cracker crumbs, then a layer of canned 
corn. Season with salt and bits of butter. Cover 
with sweet corn, and repeat until the dish is full, 
having crumbs on the top. Pour in enough milk to 
fill the dish, and bake for forty-five minutes. 

Corn Souffle. — Score each row of kernels deeply 
and press out the pulp with the back of a knife, using 
enough corn to make one cupful of pulp. Add one 
cupful of cream or hot milk, one tablespoonful of 
butter, pepper and salt to season, and three yolks 
of eggs well beaten. Cook in a double boiler until 
smooth and creamy. Keep stirring constantly. Take 
from the fire, cool, fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of 
four eggs, turn into a baking dish, and bake in a hot 
oven for twenty minutes. 

Succotash. — Cut the corn from six cobs, string, and 
cut into short lengths two cupfuls of kidney beans ; 
cook for half an hour in boiling salted water to cover. 

"5 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Drain off nearly all the boiling water, and add one 
cupful of milk. Simmer for twenty minutes, stirring 
frequently. Season with pepper and salt. Add one 
tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour, and cook for 
ten minutes longer. 

Creole Com Chowder. — Slice three onions, and fry 
brown in butter. Add three peeled sliced tomatoes, 
three green peppers, seeded and chopped, and the 
corn cut from seven cobs. Cook for an hour, adding 
water as needed. Season with salt, sugar, and black 
pepper. 

Corn Omelette. — Grate the corn from four ears, and 
cook in a boiler till tender, moistening as little as 
possible. Beat four eggs thoroughly, add three table- 
spoonfuls of cream, and bake in an omelette pan. 
When ready to fold, add the seasoned corn and turn 
out on a hot dish. 



MARIGOLD (Calendula officinalis. Compositce). 

Sow in drills fifteen inches apart, early in April., 
Thin the plants out to a foot distant. The flowers 
of the pot marigold are gathered and dried and used 
as flavouring for soups, &c. 



MARJORAM {Origanum Vulgare. Labiata). 

A perennial plant of easy culture. Sow almost 
anywhere during spring or summer, as an edging 
to a garden path. The leaves are used for flavouring 
various dishes. 

ii6 



MINT 



MINT {^Mentha viridis. Labiatee). 

Mint prefers cool, deep soil, and does not object 
to partial shade. It revels in moisture. The old 
stems should be cut down every autumn and a mulch 
of old hotbed laid on will improve the quality of the 
next season's growth. It may be raised from seed 
sown in April, but is better propagated by division of 
old roots at the end of March. 



DISHES. 

Mint Jelly. — This can be made with the young, 
fresh leaves. Soak one ounce of gelatine in a pint 
of salted water until soft, when the water is discarded. 
Add one and a half cupfuls of granulated sugar. 
Crush one pint of green mint, and pour one quart of 
boiling water over it. Let it stand whilst you are 
doing the other things, then strain through a jelly-bag, 
and bring to the boil. Pour over the gelatine and 
sugar, and stir for a minute. Turn into jelly glasses, 
and when firm keep in a cold place. If sealed, these 
will keep some time, or they may be served as soon 
as cold. 

Mint Sandwiches. — Put into a basin a tablespoonful 
of fresh mint leaves cut fine, and pour over them a 
tablespoonful of hot water, and let it infuse for ten 
minutes. Strain, add two cupfuls of heavy whipped 
cream, salt and pepper to season, and one table- 
spoonful of gelatine, softened in a little cold water ; 

117 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

dissolve over hot water. Turn into a square mould 
to cool. Cut in slices, and place between thin slices 
of brown bread. 

Mint Sherbet. — Pour two cupfuls of boiling water 
over a bunch of bruised, fresh spearmint leaves. 
Cover, and let it stand on the back of the stove to 
infuse, then add one cupful of sugar. When the 
sugar is dissolved, strain, cool, add two-thirds of a 
cupful of grape juice, and one quarter of a cupful 
of lemon juice. Freeze to a much-liked consistency. 
Serve in sherbet glasses ; ornament the top of each 
glass with crystallised jelly and a sprig of mint. 

Mint Sauce. — Chop finely some mint — two or three 
tablespoonfuls ; add to this an equal quantity of 
brown sugar ; let it stand two hours, and just before 
using pour some brown vinegar over it, and dilute 
with a little cold water. This method will not affect 
people who suffer from indigestion. 

MUSHROOM {Agaricus Campestris, Fungi). 

For the growth of mushrooms it is almost indispen- 
sable that some pit or house protected from frost be 
available, though it is possible to make up successful 
beds out of doors during summer and early autumn. 
But an even temperature is necessary, and that never 
below 50°. It is not unusual to grow mushrooms 
under the staging of hothouses. 

Fresh horse manure in quantity is the first requisite 
of a mushroom bed. This should be as free from 
straw as possible, and should be stacked in a heap 

118 



MUSHROOM 

about three feet high, and be turned and restacked 
twice at weekly intervals, to take the fire out of it. 

Mix the manure well with about one-fourth its bulk 
of earth, and make up the bed about eighteen inches 
deep, leaving all tidy and neat. The mixture should be 
homogeneous and well mingled, and the whole well 
trodden and compact. When the temperature is 
about 75° insert the spawn in pieces about 4x3x2 
inches in size, a foot apart all over the bed, including 
the sides. The spawn should be put in by hand, 
two inches deep. 

When the spawn has thoroughly permeated the bed 
the original pieces should be withdrawn, and all care- 
fully made smooth again. An inch of soil should now 
be laid over the whole bed, and watered moderately 
with tepid water. 

Watering in moderation must be attended to, and 
when the mushrooms appear they should be gathered, 
stem and all, as it is important not to leave the old 
stems rotting in the bed. 

For an outdoor bed the same procedure is carried 
out, and the bed is protected by a six-inch layer of 
hay or stray. A sheltered position should be chosen — 
much the sort of spot where one usually places the 
garden frames. Indeed, it is by no means bad prac- 
tice to make the -bed in such a frame and cover the 
glass with mats. 

DISHES. 

Mushroom Croquettes. — Peel and trim half a 
pound of mushrooms, chop the stalks and trimmings 

119 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

fine and rinse them in water. Simmer the chopped 
trimmings for twenty minutes in milk to cover. 
Strain and reserve the liquor ; add cream or milk to 
make two cupfuls in all ; season with salt and pepper. 
Cut the caps into small pieces, and fry in butter. 
Add two chopped hard - boiled eggs and a table- 
spoonful of the sauce. Heat thoroughly, take from 
the fire, and add the yolks of two raw eggs ; cool, and 
shape into croquettes. Dip in the whites of two eggs 
and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Serve with the sauce. 

Stewed Mushrooms. — Pound in a mortar a few bits 
of onion. Put in a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of oil. Brown to a 
light colour, then add twelve mushrooms cut in slices. 
Stew slowly for one hour ; add a little salt and pepper 
and a good teaspoonful of flour mixed smooth with 
water ; boil for three minutes, and serve very hot. 

Mushroom Pie. — Take half a pound of butter-beans, 
a quarter of a pound of mushrooms, one pound of 
chestnuts, two onions, one hard-boiled egg, one tea- 
cupful of tapioca (soaked overnight), some short crust 
pastry. 

Fill a dish with alternate layers of the above 
ingredients ; add seasoning to taste. The onions and 
mushrooms to be fried, the chestnuts boiled and 
pealed, the butter-beans cooked the day before until 
quite soft, and the egg cut into slices,, Cover with 
the pastry made as follows : 

Half a pound of flour, half a pound of nut butter, 
mix with cold water. Brush over with beaten egg, 
and bake. 

I20 



MUSHROOM 

Gravy with the />«V.— Melt one ounce of butter in 
a saucepan, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and cook 
till a rich dark brown, stirring all the time. Add 
half a pint of vegetable stock, and bring to the boil. 
Before serving, add half a teaspoonful of marmite. 
Marmite is a pure vegetable extract, to be had 
from the Marmite Extract Company, 59 Eastcheap, 
London, E.G. 

Mushroom Patties. — Dried or fresh mushrooms, 
light pastry, milk, seasoning, flour, and butter. 

Put the mushrooms (if dried, they must be soaked 
overnight) with two ounces of butter into a saucepan ; 
simmer slowly till they shrink and give out their 
juice ; stir in an ounce of flour, add a cup of milk, stir 
gently for five minutes, let it remain for half an 
hour, and season with pepper and salt. Line patty- 
pans with pastry, fill with the mushroom mixture, 
and bake. 

Mushrooms d. la Proven9ale. — Slice off that part 
of the tomato that adheres to the stalk ; scoop out 
the seeds without breaking the sides of the fruit, and 
place them in a circular order in a saut6-pan con- 
taining about a gill of salad oil ; next chop up half 
a bottle of mushrooms, a little parsley, and four 
shallots ; put these into a stewpan, season with 
pepper and salt, and add a little chopped thyme ; 
fry these for about five minutes, then mix in three 
yolks of eggs ; fill the tomatoes with this prepara- 
tion ; shake some light-coloured raspings of bread 
over them, and place them over a brisk fire, holding a 
red-hot salamander over them for about ten minutes, 

121 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

by which time they will be done ; dish them up ; pour 
some brown sauce round the base, and serve. 

Cream Mushrooms. — Peel one pound of fresh 
mushrooms, cut off the stalks. Beat up two ounces 
of butter in a saut6-pan or a stewpan ; put in the 
mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, and cook 
over a moderate fire for ten minutes, then add half 
a pint of cream or milk and cream. Bake for about 
five minutes, and thicken with one ounce of butter 
kneaded with half an ounce of flour. Dish up, and 
serve hot. 

Mushroom Omelette. — Take three large mushrooms 
chopped finely, fry lightly in three ounces of butter. 
Add three eggs, well beaten, yolks and whites sepa- 
rately, and two tablespoonfuls of milk ; season with 
pepper and salt. Pour into the pan, and fry in hot 
butter. Fry well both sides. 

Stuffed Mushrooms. — Wash and chop finely the trim- 
mings and stalks of sixteen large fresh mushrooms, fry 
the trimmings in oil, and add half a cupful of tomato 
sauce, with salt and red pepper to season. Add equal 
parts of fresh bread crumbs and grated Parmesan 
cheese until a smooth, thick paste is formed. Season 
with minced parsley. Fill the mushroom caps, and 
arrange on a baking dish. Sprinkle with crumbs 
and grated cheese, moisten with olive oil, and bake 
for fifteen minutes. Sprinkle with lemon juice and 
serve. 

Mushroom Rolls. — Scoop out the crumb from 
small dinner rolls, cut in half, and fill the cavity 
with mushroom mixture as follows : 

122 



MUSHROOM 

Clean a quarter of a pound of button mushrooms, 
cut them small, stew them in a small stewpan with 
one ounce of butter; season with pepper and salt, 
and when the mushrooms are tender, stir in one 
ounce of flour mixed to a smooth paste with a gill 
of cream or milk. Bring the mixture to the boil for a 
minute or two, and use it just before it is cold. 

Curried Mushrooms. — Fry a small chopped onion 
in butter, with a teaspoonful each of flour and curry 
powder, add a cupful of stock, and cook until thick, 
stirring constantly. Take from the fire, season with 
salt and pepper and lemon juice, and strain over fried 
mushrooms arranged on a buttered dish. 

Broiled Mushrooms. — (i) Peel some large mush- 
rooms. Broil on a buttered gridiron, inside up. 
Season and serve on buttered toast. Melted butter, 
mixed with minced parsley and chives, and seasoned 
with salt and pepper, may be served separately if 
desired, or melted butter and lemon juice. 

(2) Fry separately in melted butter large fresh 
mushrooms whole, and fresh mushrooms chopped. 
Add cream or milk to the minced mushrooms, using 
enough to cover, and simmer for ten minutes. Spread 
the minced mixture on buttered toast, and lay a large 
broiled mushroom on each piece. Season with salt 
and pepper, and if desired, a little grated nutmeg or 
lemon juice. 

Baked Mushrooms. — Peel a dozen large mush- 
rooms, put into a buttered dripping-pan, inside up, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot with butter, and 
pour over two-thirds of a cupful of cream. Bake 

123 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

for ten minutes in a hot oven and serve on toast, 
with some gravy poured over. The cream may be 
omitted and two tablespoonfuls of butter used instead. 
Scalloped Mushroom. — Mince some mushrooms 
rather finely, peel and chop a shallot, melt an ounce 
of butter and fry it ; then add half a gill of tomato 
sauce, two tablespoonfuls of cream, some bread- 
crumbs and chopped parsley, and a tablespoonful of 
sherry, with seasoning to taste. Butter some shells, 
when the mixture is thoroughly hot pour it into the 
shells, cover with bread crumbs and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley; divide about an ounce and a half 
of butter into little bits, and put them on to the tops 
of the filled shells ; bake in a very hot oven, so as to 
brown the surface ; dish up in the shells. — Mrs. B. C, 
Stephenson's receipe. 

MUSTARD {Sinapis alba. Ord. CrucifercB). 

Exactly the same treatment is required for this as 
for cress. Mustard germinates more quickly than the 
latter, therefore sow it three days after the accom- 
panying cress. 

ONION {Allium cepa. Ord. LiliacecB). 

There is no vegetable, except the potato, more 
continually in demand in the kitchen than this 
admirable bulb. It is indispensable in soups, stews, 
sauces, salads, stuffing, while in its native simplicity, 
braised, boiled, or fried, it delights many a heart on 
a cold winter's day. 

124 



ONION 

The ground that is to carry onions must be deeply 
trenched and richly manured. This should be done 
as early in the winter as possible, as the onion must 
be sown early in the year, and the ground is all the 
better for being mellowed by frost. A moderate 
dressing of kainit may be dug into the top spit at 
the same time that the good stuff from the stable 
goes into the bottom of the trench. 

The ground should be levelled down and a dressing 
of soot sprinkled over the surface and raked in, and in 
February or March, as early, indeed, as the season 
permits, the seed must go in. Choose a dry day 
when the soil is almost dusty, tread the ground firm, 
and draw shajlow drills across it, a foot apart. The 
seed must be sown very thinly and evenly, and the 
drills covered over by means of the rake. This being 
done the gardener should perform a sort of step 
dance over the entire bed, treading the ground as 
firm as possible ; indeed, some pass the garden roller 
over it, but this is an unsafe practice, as if the ground 
be the least bit damp, earth will stick to the roller, 
and with it the precious seeds. The bed should be 
lightly finished with the rake, and left as tidy and 
smooth as a billiard table. 

With the growth of the onions will come an in- 
numerable crop of weeds. In theory these should be 
hand-weeded, but there is no objection to using the 
Dutch hoe, once. The hoe must be carefully used, 
and must not drive deeply into the soil, for the onions 
must not be loosened^. All subsequent weeding must 
be done by hand. 

125 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

As soon as the onions are well up, a sprinkling of 
soot should be administered every two or three weeks. 
This not only serves as an invaluable manure, but 
helps to keep the onion grub at bay. One cannot 
blame the grub for being fond of onions, but one 
does not desire his presence, as he may easily ruin 
the entire crop. In showery weather occasional 
slight top-dressings of nitrate may be given with 
advantage, say about once a month. 

The onions will need to be thinned in May and 
again during June, and very useful these thinnings 
are in the salad bowl. The second thinning need not 
be done all at once, but the bed may be systemati- 
cally used from as onions are required; be this as it 
may, by the first week in July there should be a good 
four inches between each bulb. 

About the beginning of September knock the stems 
down with a rake handle, to induce the bulbs to ripen 
off, and harvest them in a perfectly dry condition a 
fortnight later. They should lie on the tool-shed 
floor, spread out to thoroughly dry off, for a couple 
of days before being bunched and stored. 

There are many good sorts of onions; for the 
spring sowing a sound, good-keeping bulb is required ; 
Rousham Park Hero, Ailsa Craig, or James's Long- 
keeping are all good sorts, but on the whole we prefer 
the first for the small garden ; it yields a sound bulb 
of good size and quality. 

At the same time as the main crop is sown in early 
spring, a small breadth of the onion bed may usefully 
be devoted to pickling onions. For this purpose 

126 



ONION 

choose such a variety as Silverskin. The seed must 
be sown thickly and broadcast ; the little bulbs should 
stand cheek by jowl. Hand-weeding alone should 
be their portion, and they will be ready to harvest 
in July. 

In order to obtain early bulbs of large size, a 
sowing of a special variety of onion may be made 
in the open early in August. For this purpose the 
Tripoli onion or its like is preferred. There is none 
better than the Trebons onion ; it is a most excellent, 
mild-fiavoured bulb, and will keep far into the winter. 

The bed chosen for this sowing should be open, 
dry, and exposed to air and sun. The plants will 
stand in it through an ordinary English winter, and 
in early March they should be planted with the trowel 
in the onion bed, in rows a foot apart, and six inches 
between each plant. Nitrate and soot should be their 
portion as for the spring-sown onions, and in July 
they will give a fine harvest. 

If the autumn-sown onions are a failure, as some- 
times happens, it is worth the gardener's while to sow 
a box of seed of Trebons or of a main crop variety in 
the hotbed in March, or earlier if possible. These 
plants will be put out in April, as advised above, 
and should give an abundant reward to the careful 
gardener, 

ONION DISHES. 

Boiled Onions. — Peel as many onions as are re- 
quired, standing while doing them in a draught of 
air, or close to the fire, so that the acrid smell may 

127 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

get away. The large Spanish onions are generally 
used for boiling, as their flavour is milder than that 
of the English onion. Boil in salted water for two 
hours or less. Serve on a drainer, with a little fresh 
butter put on, at the last minute, or cover with 
white sauce. 

Baked Onions. — Proceed as for boiled onions, but 
boil for one hour, and then put them whole into a 
buttered baking dish, and bake for an hour, basting 
them occasionally with a little butter. They may 
have a brown sauce poured over when served. 

Piccalilli [American Disk). — One peck of green 
tomatoes, one cupful of salt, six onions, four green 
peppers, allspice, clove, mustard seed, and vinegar. 
Wipe the fruit clean, cut into small pieces, sprinkle over 
them a cupful of salt, and let them stand overnight. In 
the morning drain off the liquor, add six onions, four 
green peppers sliced thin, one ounce each of allspice, 
cloves, and white mustard seed. Tie the spices in 
a muslin bag, cover with vinegar ; cook slowly in 
an Agate kettle for an hour or more until very tender. 
The mixture should be sealed in glass jars. 

Stuffed Onions. — Peel five white onions, boil them 
in salted water for one hour, changing the water 
once. Drain and scoop out the centre and fill with 
bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated 
cheese, and ketchup. Mash a little of the onion with 
the stuffing, and moisten with cream or milk. Wrap 
the onions in buttered paper, twist the ends ; put into 
a buttered pan and bake for an hour. Remove the 
paper, pour over melted butter, and serve. 

128 



ONION 

Onions and Cheese. — Peel four large onions, cut 
into half-inch slices and put them into a large flat 
buttered baking dish in one layer. Season with pepper 
and salt, cover the dish, and bake until tender, then 
sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, and return to the 
oven until the cheese is dissolved. Take up carefully, 
and serve with mustard. 

Qerman Onion Pie. — Slice six onions, and fry until 
soft in a little butter or nutter. Add half a cupful 
of milk or cream, and thicken with a tablespoonful 
of flour rubbed smooth in a little cold milk. Take 
from the fire, and add the yolk of an egg well beaten. 
Line a small deep baking dish with good pastry, fill 
with the onion mixture, and bake brown. Serve in 
the same dish. 

Onion Custard. — Cook six or eight onions until 
tender in boiling salted water, changing the water 
once. Drain and arrange them in a baking dish. 
Thicken a pint of hot milk with a tablespoonful of 
cornflour rubbed into two teaspoonfuls of butter, 
and gradually pour the sauce on two eggs well beaten. 
Season with salt and pepper; pour over the onions, 
and bake until the custard is set. 

Onions with Eggs. — Peel and slice the onions, and 
fry until tender in butter, season with salt and pepper. 
Drain thoroughly, and put on a draining dish. 
Squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and serve with 
poached eggs arranged round. 

Onion Souffle. — Peel six or eight onions and boil 
until tender, changing the water once. Chop finely 
with a sprig of parsley, add salt and cayenne pepper 

129 I 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

to season, and a tablespoonful each of butter and 
cream, and add one cupful of very thick cream sauce, 
the yolk of one egg well beaten, and enough soft 
bread-crumbs to make a smooth thick paste. Fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites of two or three eggs, and 
bake in a buttered souffle dish. Serve with tomato 
or cream sauce. 

Escalloped Onions. — Put a layer of thinly sliced 
onions in a buttered baking dish ; salt, pepper, and 
butter to season. Cover with crumbs, and repeat 
until the dish is full, having crumbs on the top. 
Moisten with milk, and bake until brown, an hour or 
more. 

Stuffed Onions. — ^Take the centres out of some large 
onions which have been boiled for an hour, peel off 
the outside of the onions, make a stuffing of grated 
bread, melted butter, a tablespoonful of cream, salt 
and pepper, make it into a paste, and fill the onions 
with it. Place in a baking dish, and cover them with 
melted butter and grated bread, and bake in an oven. 

To Fry Onions. — Peel, and cut them up, dip them in 
flour and fry them for eight or ten minutes in very 
hot fat, strain them, and serve dry, with fried parsley. 

Onion Soup. See Soups. 

Frittelle [a Palermo Recipe). — Cut into small slices 
six onions, fry them lightly in oil, and when they are 
a golden brown add to them ten artichokes well 
cleaned, and cut into little pieces ; add two pounds 
of green peas and four pounds of beans which have 
been previously cooked. Add salt and fry lightly, 
adding to them two tablespoonfuls of oil. When the 

130 



PARSLEY 

vegetables are cooked, sugar them, and add some 
vinegar to make a savoury, bitter-sweet mixture. 
Serve in a covered dish. 



PARSLEY {Apium Petroselinum. Umbelliferce). 

Parsley once acquired a bad name, from the mis- 
use of a wild Sardinian kind. The Sardinians believed 
that they had absolutely no poisonous native plant, 
but this proved the exception to the rule, and the 
trusting natives who ate it died in such horrible 
fashion that the phrase " sardonic grin " arose from the 
contortions its effects produced upon their faces. 

Seed of our ordinary variety, however, may be 
sown at any time in spring or summer, but for 
summer use it is generally sown in March. Good 
garden soil will grow parsley. As the seed is slow and 
rather uncertain in germinating, it may be sown rather 
thicker than is usual for some seeds. As soon as the 
plants are in their second leaf single them in the 
row, a fortnight later thin out to nine inches apart. 
Parsley is generally used as an edging to the kitchen 
garden. 

A June sowing in a sheltered bed will provide 
plants for the winter, and the gardener must be 
prepared to give some protection of mats during 
severe weather if he wishes to always satisfy the 
cook. An August sowing will provide plants which 
in well-drained soil will usually stand the winter and 
carry the gardener well through the spring. 

Dried parsley intended for winter use should be 
131 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

gathered before it loses its tender shade of green. 
It is first blanched in boiling water for one minute, 
then put into the oven, which must not be too hot, 
and when dry rubbed through a sieve and stored in 
bottles for use. 

Fried Parsley. — Wash some sprigs of fresh parsley 
in cold water, then dry them carefully ; put the 
parsley into a wire basket, and fry in butter, oil, or 
lard for about a minute, when it ought to be crisp. 

Chopped Parsley. — This is used to decorate new 
potatoes. Parsley is also used to flavour soups and 
sauces, and in sprigs to decorate savoury dishes. 

Dried Parsley. — Gather the parsley, and spread out 
to dry in front of the fire or in the oven if not too 
hot. When dry the leaves should be reduced to a 
fine powder by rubbing through a hair sieve. Store 
in well-corked bottles or air-tight tins. 

As parsley has a strong flavour, if used too freely it 
will spoil a soup or stuffing. It should be remem- 
bered that in use, dried parsley swells to twice its 
bulk. 

PARSNIP {Pastinaca sativa. UmbellifereB). 

To grow this useful root is a simple matter. 
Poorish, or partially exhausted, soil is no drawback, 
as there should be no recent manure in the top spit. 
But the ground should be deeply trenched and a 
slight dressing of manure buried deeply. The seed 
must be sown veiy thinly in March, in drills a foot 
apart. As soon as the plants are well in their second 

132 



PARSNIP 

leaf they should be singled, and a fortnight later 
thinned to six inches distance. A smallish root of 
good quality is " the Student " parsnip, suited in every 
way for the small garden. The crop will be ready 
for use in September, but it may remain in the 
ground and be dug throughout the winter as 
required. 

PARSNIP DISHES. 

To Boil Parsnips. — Wash and scrape the roots, put 
them in salted, boiling water to cover, and boil 
steadily for an hour to an hour and a half, or even 
longer if they are very large. They may be served 
plain, or covered with good white sauce. If very 
large, cut them in two or four lengthwise before 
boiling. 

Parsnips Saut^. — Boil and mash six or seven 
parsnips, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and stir in 
one tablespoonful of flour and one egg. Make 
them into round, small cakes, and fry in dripping 
or nutter, turning occasionally until brown on both 
sides. 

Baked Parsnips. — Boil until tender, peel, split, and 
put into a baking pan, flat side down ; sprinkle with 
sugar and bake until brown, basting with melted 
butter and syrup. 

Buttered Parsnips. — Scrape off the skins and boil 
the parsnips until tender, and cut lengthwise in thin 
slices. Put into a saucepan, with three or four table- 
spoonfuls of butter, pepper and salt and minced 
parsley to season. Shake over the fire until the 

133 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

mixture boils, and serve with white sauce poured 
over. A little cream may be added to the sauce. 
Sprinkle the parsnips with minced parsley before 
serving. 

Parsnip Balls. — Boil six large parsnips, cool, peel 
and grate ; add two eggs well beaten, and enough 
flour to bind the mixture together ; season to taste. 
Mould into small flat cakes and saut6 in butter, or 
shape into balls, first rubbing the hands with flour, 
and fry in a deep fat. 

Parsnip Cakes. — Peel and cut up three or four 
parsnips; cook until soft in salted water; drain, 
chop finely, rub through a sieve. Season with salt 
and pepper, and add the yolks of three eggs well 
beaten. Heat thoroughly, adding a little flour, and 
cook to a stiff paste. Cool, shape into small flat 
cakes, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry brown in fat 
to cover. 

Escalloped Parsnips. — (i) Prepare three parsnips 
according to directions previously given, cutting the 
parsnips into dice. Put into a buttered baking dish 
in layers, sprinkling each layer with chopped onion. 
Cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and bake for half 
an hour. 

(2) Mash enough boiled parsnips to make a pint, 
and add two tablespoonfuls each of butter and cream, 
one egg well beaten, and a pinch each of salt and 
pepper. Put into a buttered baking dish alternate 
layers of parsnip and crumbs, having crumbs on the 
top. Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a quarter of 
a cupful of milk. Season with salt and pepper, and 

134 



GARDEN PEA 

pour over the parsnips. Bake until brown, and serve 
in a baking dish. The layers of crumbs and the milk 
may be omitted if liked. 

Fried Parsnips. — (i) Peel the parsnips, and boil 
until tender in salted water. Drain, and cut into 
half-inch slices lengthwise, or small strips. Season 
with salt, and cool. Dip in hot molasses, and fry 
in butter until brown, or dip in egg and crumbs and 
fry. Sprinkle with brown sugar, and put into the 
oven for ten minutes. 

(2) Boil parsnips, peel and cut into strips ; saut6 
in butter, and season with pepper, salt, and minced 
parsley and serve, or dip the strips in a batter, made of 
half a cupful of flour, two eggs, one tablespoonful of 
olive oil, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to season, 
and enough milk to make the batter of the proper 
consistency. Fry in deep fat. 

GARDEN PEA {Ft'sum sativum. Ord. Leguminosce.) 

As known to the gardener there are two main 
divisions of the green pea, the round-seeded and the 
wrinkled, the field pea and the marrow-fat. The first 
is hardier and earlier, may be sown in November, and 
with luck and a good situation may be gathered at the 
end of May. But the produce is distinctly second 
rate, and the small garden has room for the best 
alone. 

The wrinkled or marrow-fat pea, while not quite 
so hardy as its humbler sister, is of a flavour that 
places it quite apart, and with equal soil and chances 

135 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

it will probably be not more than ten days later than 
the round- seeded variety. 

The soil whatever its nature must be richly treated, 
and well dug. In a light soil deep trenching and 
well matured manure at the bottom of the trench will 
enable the roots to go well down, and give them 
welcome moisture and coolness in the heats of 
summer. It is this mechanical effect of manure that 
gardeners with rich, deep loam to deal with forget, 
when they recommend peas to be grown by use of 
artificial manures alone. If lime be wanting in the 
soil a dressing should be occasionally dug in, not as a 
yearly practice, as lime stays a long while about, but 
say once every three years. Basic slag and kainit are 
the chemical manures generally recommended for 
incorporating with the earth at the time of trenching, 
though we think that good garden soil can dispense 
with their frequent use. Certainly a slight sprinkling 
of nitrate when the plants first appear is invaluable in 
starting them into vigorous growth, and a fortnight or 
three weeks later a sprinkling of superphosphate helps 
to produce a first-rate crop. 

It is impossible to lay down any hard-and-fast rule 
for the times of sowing, soil, situation, climate, and 
season are all factors that decide the matter, and as 
the last is a varying one, no gardener can say that 
every year his first sowing of peas shall go in on 
a certain day, or even in a particular month. 

In a sandy Surrey loam marrow-fat peas are gener- 
ally sown with good results about mid-February, 
giving good dishes about the loth of June. But there 

136 



GARDEN PEA 

are seasons when it is impossible to hope for a sowing 
before March. One consolation the gardener has, 
the March sowing is not far behind the earlier; 
having more genial conditions from the very begin- 
ning, it grows right away, and will not be more than 
a week later than the earlier peas. Among the York- 
shire hills, where the subsoil is a cold clay, the 
gardener will not waste time and seed by sowing 
before the third week of March, and even then may 
prefer to begin with a hardy, round-seeded sort. 
These may be considered the extreme variations, and 
it must be a matter of yearly judgment when to begin 
sowing, and what variety to sow. 

For hot soils the selection of sorts is more difificult 
than for rich, deep moisture-holding loams. The 
three varieties we have found best itl Surrey, in a 
gravelly loam, are Sutton's Little Marvel, Abundance, 
and Satisfaction. The Sherwood pea has also proved 
itself to be a most excellent second early variety, but 
it will be found even better where the soil is rather 
more retentive of moisture. In such a soil, it is 
a typical small garden pea, dwarf, an abundant 
cropper, and of excellent marrow-fat flavour. But 
when the gardener is not restricted to short varieties 
from reasons of space there are many splended taller 
kinds, such as " Duke of Albany," and best of all peas 
grown, " Ne plus ultra." 

The great object of the small gardener is to main- 
tain a succession of peas over as long a period as 
possible, and for this purpose dwarf peas are to be 
preferred, as they take up much less room on the 

137 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

ground, and enable the gardener to make many 
sowings for succession in his restricted space. The 
gardener is recommended to make a careful study 
from year to year of the varieties best suited to his 
special conditions, always bearing in mind the in- 
fluence of the different seasons on his experiments. 
Thus a rainy summer will give excellent results 
with a seed to which a dry summer would prove 
fatal. 

As far as experience goes, of all our garden produce 
the pea varies in its constitution more than any other, 
except perhaps the potato. Therefore a gardener 
beginning the study of vegetables in fresh ground 
and new conditions is recommended to sow quite 
small quantities of many sorts of pea from different 
growers, and to keep a note-book ; flavour, abund- 
ance, and liability to mildew being points to be con- 
sidered, as well as comparative earliness or lateness of 
cropping. 

The first sowing of peas, in mid-February, should 
be of an early dwarf variety, and made on a sunny, 
well-protected border ; the peas should be rolled 
in paraffin and red-lead as a matter of routine, 
in order to protect them from birds and mice, and 
sown in drills three inches deep, the drills as wide 
apart as the height the peas will grow to, but never 
less than two feet distant. The drills should be about 
four inches wide, and the peas set in double rows 
down each drill one and a half to three inches 
between each seed, according to the variety. Two 
strands of black cotton should be stretched an inch 

138 



GARDEN PEA 

or so above the rows of seed as a discouragement to 
the birds. 

Gardeners habitually sow all seeds far too thickly, 
and peas especially so. The earliest sowings should 
be sown more thickly than the later, but two-thirds of 
a pint of seed should amply suffice for a row forty feet 
long. Soot occasionally dusted over the growing 
leaves as they push up will discourage the sparrows 
from utilising them as salad, and will also disappoint 
the slugs. If the garden holds many of the latter 
pests, soot should be thickly spread along each side of 
the rows. 

Successive sowings are to be made; when the last 
sowing of seed shows above ground, it is time to put 
in the next. With the third sowing of earlies, a first 
sowing of second early peas should be made ; the 
latter take a week longer to come into bearing, and so 
the succession is maintained. In hot soil it is not 
much use sowing after the second week in May, and 
for this late sowing the ground must be dug very 
deeply and an extra special dose of old manure buried. 
In favourable districts and soil, peas sown at the end 
of the month and well into June will give good results 
as late as September ; a mildew-resisting variety 
should be chosen, and the rows spaced widely 
apart, to ensure full circulation of air round the 
plants. 

Rows of peas should never be sown closer than the 
height they are expected to attain. Catch crops of 
lettuce, spinach, radish, and so forth may be grown 
between them, and even leeks may be put out between 

139 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the taller and more widely spaced sorts with advan- 
tage. Pea sticks are an irritating little expense, and 
it will be found an economy to grow peas up wire- 
netting stretched along the centre of the row. This 
will last many years, and soon repay the extra first 
cost. We are decidedly of opinion that all peas, 
dwarf as well as tall varieties, should have the support 
of sticks or wire-netting, preferably the latter. Peas 
grown on such supports do not lie about on the 
ground, but gain all the sunshine and air available; 
they will fruit earlier and more abundantly than if 
left to flop about on damp earth. Wire-netting can 
be purchased in fifty-yard rolls ; a roll of three feet 
width costs about seven shillings, and one of half that 
width, quite tall enough for dwarf peas, about three 
and sixpence. 

PEA DISHES. 

To Boil Peas {Green Peas). — The one way to cook 
an English marrow-fat pea in perfect condition is 
to boil it. Take one peck of peas, shell them, and 
without loss of time put them into a saucepan of 
boiling water with- one tablespoonful of salt, a piece 
of soda no larger than a pea, and a sprig of mint, 
as soon as the water comes to the boiling point again, 
draw the pan back, so that the peas may not cook too 
fast or they will jump out of their jackets ; this they 
will do if there is too much soda in the water. 

Boil for twenty minutes to half an hour, pour into 
a hot colander, heap up on a drainer, put a piece 
of fresh butter on the top, cover the dish, and send 

140 



GARDEN PEA 

them to table perfect. This is if the peas are grown 
in your own garden. 

If the peas are bought, and probably field grown, 
put two lumps of sugar in the water — this will im- 
prove their flavour ; they will also require boiling a 
little longer. 

Pease Pudding {Split Peas). — Soak half a pint of 
split peas, wash, and sort them over. Dip a pudding- 
cloth in boiling water, flour it well, put in the peas, 
and tie up loosely, allowing room for them to swell, 
and boil for three hours. Serve with piquant sauce. 

Green Pea Salad. — Drain a small can of peas, or 
one pint fresh-boiled green peas ; add a little pepper 
and salt, and one and a half cups of broken walnut 
meats, moisten with Mayonnaise dressing, and serve 
on a bed of lettuce leaves. 

Mashed Split Peas. — Soak a pint of split peas over- 
night, drain, cover with cold water, add a pinch of 
soda, and cook slowly for three hours or more. Strain 
and press the peas through a sieve, season with salt 
and pepper, moisten with boiling milk, and beat until 
smooth. Turn into a buttered baking dish and bake 
■for one hour ; serve in the same dish. 

Pea Chowder. — Prepare according to the directions 
given for baked mashed peas. Add to the peas a 
can of corn, a cupful of milk, salt and pepper to 
season; cover, and cook slowly for thirty minutes, 
and then add a tablespoonful of butter, and serve. 

Pur^e of Green Peas. — Shell four pounds of fresh 
green peas when they are getting old; put them 
in an earthenware pot, cover them with cold water, 

141 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and boil for half an hour or longer with a sprig of 
mint. Take out one cupful of peas, rub the rest 
.through a sieve, and mix in an earthen pot, with one 
quart of milk, four ounces of butter, and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. Stir until the soup is thick. Add 
a pinch of salt and grated nutmeg, and lastly the 
whole peas, and serve hot. 

Peas en Croust§,des. — Boil a quart of green peas 
with a sprig of mint until tender twenty minutes 
to half an hour. Make a sauce of one cupful of milk, 
one tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of three eggs, 
well beaten, salt and pepper to season. Mix with the 
peas and fill timbale shells or croustades. These are 
made by cutting stale bread in blocks, hollowing out 
the centres, and toasting or frying the shells thus 
made. Half a cupful of boiled carrots cut into dice, 
fried in butter, and seasoned with a few drops of 
lemon juice may be added to the peas. 

Pea Cakes {Dried Peas). — Boil three cupf uls of peas 
in salted water until tender, and put through a sieve, 
seasoning with salt, pepper, and butter. Make a 
batter of one cupful of milk, two beaten eggs, and 
half a cupful of flour sifted with half a teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Stir the pulp into the batter, mixing 
thoroughly, and fry by spoonfuls in deep fat. 

Curry of Green Peas and Potatoes. — Two or more 
parboiled potatoes, cut into dice, a pint of boiled green 
peas, an onion chopped very finely, an apple peeled 
and chopped in small dice, a teaspoonful of curry 
powder, a tablespoonful of mixed pickles chopped, 
and a tablespoonful of chutney. Put two ounces of 

142 



GARDEN PEA 

butter in a saucepan, add the chopped onion and 
curry powder, cook slowly, stirring frequently till 
the onion is quite tender; stir in a tablespoonful of 
flour, add a breakfast cupful of vegetable stock, or 
water and milk in equal parts. Let all simmer to- 
gether for five minutes, add the peas, potatoes, apples, 
pickles, and chutney, draw to one side, and simmer 
slowly for twenty minutes or longer. Serve on a 
very hot dish with a border of boiled rice. 

Sautd Green Peas. — Boil a pint of shelled peas in 
a stewpan in a quart of boiling water ; add a very 
little green mint, a teaspoonful of salt and a pinch 
of moist sugar, when the peas are tender, about twenty 
minutes, drain the water from them and add half an 
ounce of fresh butter, and a pinch of caster sugar and 
a little pepper, toss them over the fire for a few 
minutes and serve. 

Petits Pois {Bottled Peas). — Put the peas into a 
saucepan, with a lump of butter and a little salt. 
Place on the fire, and stir with a wooden spoon; 
add ten or twelve very tiny onions and the small 
heart of a lettuce. Simmer for an hour without 
water, add a little sugar and more butter, and serve. 

Boiled Dried Peas. — Wash the peas, and soak them 
in water for twelve hours; then drain off the water 
and put them into boiling water with a little salt 
and a pinch of soda ; keep the pan on the side of 
the fire, and simmer for two hours ; drain them, and 
put them in a clean saucepan, with one ounce of 
butter, and a httle pepper and salt, scatter some 
finely chopped parsley over them, and serve very hot. 

143 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Green Pea Omelette. — Make an omelette in the 
usual way, adding two or three tablespoonfuls of milk 
and two or three drops of onion juice ; put two table- 
spoonfuls of young boiled peas into the middle of 
the omelette when finished and fold over on a very 
hot dish garnished with young boiled peas. 

Bottle Peas. — Fill large-mouthed glass bottles with 
young, freshly gathered shelled peas ; add a good tea- 
spoonful of salt and half a gill of water, cold ; screw 
on the metal tops tightly, and tie a wisp of straw 
round each bottle to prevent them cracking each 
other before putting them in a stock pot filled up with 
hot water ; boil fast for half an hour, then take them 
off the fire. When the bottles are cold, test them 
whether any of them leak; keep the bottles in a 
dry, cool place. 

POTATO {Solatium tuberosum. Solanacece). 

In the small garden the early potato is the only 
one worth finding room for. As a rule the main 
crop potato can be bought as cheaply as it can be 
grown, and as good. But a newly dug young 
potato from one's own patch is incomparably better 
than the product of the Channel Islands as it reaches 
the table. 

Good, wholesome, light, rich soil will grow a good 
early potato. Last year's celery bed will make good 
ground for either peas or potatoes, but to grow 
potatoes well, the ground needs plenty of manure. 
We give it rather an extra dose in the small garden, 

144 



POTATO 

because our economy of space makes it necessary to 
grow the Brussels sprouts between the potato rows. 

The gardener will learn by experiment what variety 
suits his soil best, but one with dwarf, compact haulm 
is to be preferred on account of the sprouts, which 
will have to fight for their share of light and air for a 
good month. Myatt's Early Ashleaf is such a variety ; 
but whatever the kind chosen, the tubers should be 
placed, early in February, in a light place exposed to 
full sun, but protected from frost. This will induce 
them to start into growth, and push up dark green 
or purple shoots that are plump and sturdy. A 
sprinkling with tepid water hastens the process, but 
they must not be kept watered. On no account 
must they be allowed to shoot forth in the dark, or 
lank anaemic growth will result that will be perfectly 
useless. 

As Brussels sprouts may have to grow among the 
potatoes, the rows must be thirty inches asunder. 
Do not plant with a dibber — it results in uneven 
growth — but open trenches with the hoe across the 
ground. These should be four inches deep. The 
seed potatoes should be cut, the larger tubers making 
into two or more sets, each with a good shoot on it, 
or at least a plump and promising " eye," but even the 
small ones should have a piece cut away in order to 
promote the rapid decay of the substance of the 
tuber, and its sending its goodness into root and top. 
The sets should be placed a foot apart in the trenches 
and the earth returned, either with the hoe, or merely 
scuffled in with the feet. 

145 K 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

As soon as the green shoots show sufficiently above 
t he ground to indicate the rows clearly, earth should 
be drawn up to them from either side, ridging up the 
rows, and covering the green shoots about an inch. 
No time is to be lost in performing this operation, as 
by this means the tender shoots will be protected from 
the spring frosts. A week or ten days later this will 
have to be repeated, and early in May, say about the 
loth, it must be done a third and final time. 

Nothing now remains but to wait for cropping 
time, and to hope no late frost may cut the tops 
down. The first dish of young potatoes should be 
dug in the second week of June, and by the loth of 
July the crop should be ready for lifting. Do not 
wait for the haulm to die down before doing this, but 
as soon as the tubers have come to their full growth 
choose a fine, hot, dry day, and dig the whole crop 
up. Shake the potatoes free from adhering soil, and 
clear away the haulm, and leave them lying on the 
sun-baked ground for several hours for the tender 
skins to harden before removing them to the tool- 
shed floor, where they may lie not more than a 
couple of days, secure from dew or rain, to ripen 
off before storing. 

The haulm should at once be burned with other 
rubbish, as we do not want it to He about and rot, 
and form excellent harbourage for germs of the 
potato disease, which may linger in the ground for 
years. 

Main crop potatoes are planted in the same way 
as early ones, the rows should never be less than 

146 



POTATO 

thirty inches apart, and the sets should be fifteen to 
eighteen inches in the row ; when the stems are well 
up they should be earthed up, and this operation may 
be repeated. The crop will be ready for lifting in 
September or October, according to the variety. 
The potato disease, which has destroyed so many 
thousands of tons of tubers, can be almost certainly 
guarded against. The potato tops should be sprayed 
with Bordeaux mixture in mid-June, and again six 
weeks later, whether the disease has manifested itself 
or not. This is practically a specific, and in some of 
our colonies a farmer who neglected this precaution, 
and so allowed his crop to become infected and 
infectious, would have an exceedingly poor time 
when he met his brother growers ; it ought to be so 
in England. 

POTATO DISHES. 

To Boil Potatoes. — Winter potatoes differ so much 
in quality and habit that different varieties require 
different treatment. If they turn black when cooked, 
or fall away outside before the heart is tender, try 
them steamed in their jackets, or steamed without. 

In England boiling the peeled potato is the 
universal custom, but in Ireland they are wiser, and 
cook the tuber in the skin. 

Wash the potatoes thoroughly, put into clean 
water, and peel with a sharp knife ; let the peel be 
as thin as possible, as the best part of a potato lies 
near the outside; turn the tuber while peeling, this 
greatly facilitates the process ; cut out the eyes with 

147 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

a pointed knife ; plunge into abundance of cold water 
to cover. Put into a saucepan of boiling water, a 
teaspoonful of salt to half a gallon of water, cook for 
half an hour or a little less ; drain off the water, 
put on one side of the stove for five minutes, shaking 
constantly, dish very hot, and serve. If it is neces- 
sary to keep them hot for some time, do not let them 
remain in the water, but after draining draw to one 
side, and put a clean towel, folded up in the pan, so 
as to absorb the steam. 

Steamed Potatoes. — Prepare as for boiling, steam 
for three-quarters of an hour ; ten minutes before they 
are done, sprinkle a little salt over them. Arrange 
neatly on the dish, and send to table very hot. 

Steamed Potatoes in their Jackets. — Wash 
thoroughly, and leave them to dry for a short time ; 
then with a sharp knife make an incision round the 
middle, steam for three-quarters of an hour, and 
before sending to table remove the skins ; these 
readily strip off in two parts. Be careful to keep 
the potatoes hot. 

Baked Potatoes. — Wash thoroughly, and leave 
them to dry for an hour ; then prick them and bake 
for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. A longer 
time may be required if the potatoes are very large. 
Choose tubers of equal size, and rather large. Up-to- 
Dates are the best bakers. Send to table, with a 
napkin folded in the dish, but on no account put 
a cover on ; this would make them limp and dull. 

Brown Potatoes. — Wash, peel, and dry the potatoes ; 
cut to an equal size. Put them in a dripping-tin, con- 

148 



POTATO 

taining about an inch of melted butter, or nutter ; let 
it boil before the potatoes are put in, baste occasion- 
ally, and when they have been in half an hour turn 
them over and brown the other side ; they will take 
an hour or more, according to their size. Drain on 
kitchen paper, and serve in a hot tureen. 

Mashed Potatoes. — Boil, and dry the potatoes 
according to directions above ; then draw the sauce- 
pan to one side and beat the potatoes with a fork, 
or put them through a masher. Add half a cupful of 
hot milk, with a piece of butter dissolved in it, and a 
little white pepper. More or less milk may be used 
according to the quantity of potatoes ; they should 
be smooth and creamy, but not sticky. 

Browned Potatoes. — Proceed as for mashed pota- 
toes ; heap them up in the centre of a hot vegetable 
tureen, roughen them with a fork drawn across and 
across. Then put in the oven to brown for a quarter 
of an hour or ten minutes, or they may be browned 
in front of the fire or with a salamander. 

New Potatoes. — Wash in two or three waters to 
remove the sand ; then if they are freshly dug, the skin 
may be rubbed off with a gentle movement of your 
thumb. The eyes will need to be removed after- 
wards, but this method prepares the potatoes quickly, 
and with no waste ; it also preserves their shape. 
Drop them into a bowl of cold water as they are 
finished. AH potatoes turn brown if exposed to the 
air without their skin when raw. 

Allow half an hour to cook them, and see that they 

are all of the same size as nearly as may be. Put 

149 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

them in cold water, enough to quite cover, add a 
pinch of salt and a sprig of mint, and bring to the 
boiling point. When tender pour off the water and 
drain for a minute, then dish very hot, with a piece 
of fresh butter. Sometimes a sprinkling of chopped 
parsley is added, but this interferes with the delicate 
flavour of the potatoes, though it dresses the dish. 

Cold New Potatoes. — (i) These may be used in 
various ways — none should ever be wasted ; they make 
a charming addition to a salad, cut in slices, and put 
in the bottom of the bowl ; cover with lettuce torn into 
shreds, dress with a tiny pinch of salt, a good table- 
spoonful of oil, toss well, then add half a teaspoonful 
of sugar, half a tablespoonful of vinegar; ^mix 
thoroughly, decorate with sliced tomatoes and hard- 
boiled eggs, cucumber, cold boiled peas, or young 
cold, boiled carrots. 

Cold Boiled New Potatoes. — (2) They may also be 
sliced and fried in butter or nutter, with a sprinkle 
of pepper and salt, and a little chopped parsley 
sprinkled over them. 

Children's Pudding. — Beat two ounces of sugar 
and two ounces of butter together until smooth ; beat 
two eggs together well, then stir into the butter, 
adding a little juice and the grated rind of a lemon, 
a little salt, and a little milk; pour this on to six 
tablespoonfuls of mashed potatoes. Mix the whole 
thoroughly well together ; pour it into a greased pie- 
dish, and bake for about half an hour in a moderate 
oven. 

Potato Omelette. — Press out the floury part of a 
150 



POTATO 

large baked potato ; pass through a fine sieve ; mix 
with it the yolks of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of milk, a few drops of lemon juice, a pinch of nutmeg, 
a little salt and pepper; whisk the whites stiff, stir 
them lightly in, and fry the omelette in one ounce of 
hot butter, cook very lightly, and roll up very quickly. 

Potato Pie. — Peel and slice two pounds of potatoes 
and one stick of celery, shred an onion, and fry it in 
butter ; put the whole into a pie-dish, season with 
pepper and salt, add a little milk or water, cover with 
short-crust paste, and bake in a quick oven for an 
hour. 

Potato Niidelan. — Make your nudelans as the 
Italian gnocchi (see Miscellaneous Dishes) ; only in- 
stead of flour make them with mashed potatoes. Boil 
them for six minutes, and sprinkle them with more 
grated Gruy^re or Parmesan cheese, and pour over 
some brown melted butter flavoured with onion. 

French Potato Pudding. — Cook and mash some 
floury potatoes, rub them through a sieve into a 
large dish, make into a paste by adding two ounces of 
fresh butter and half a tumbler of cream or milk ; beat 
it into a smooth paste, season with salt and pepper, 
then add three well-beaten yolks of eggs; butter a 
mould, and pour in the potato mixture ; make 
a hole in the centre, into which put some cooked 
and seasoned mushrooms ; cover the top with a piece 
of the paste, and cook in the oven ; when finished 
turn it into a dish, and serve hot. 

Potato Rissoles. — Wash, peel, and boil ten potatoes, 
drain and rub them through a wire sieve. Place 

151 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

them in a basin with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, 
and add two yolks of eggs, one tablespoonful of 
cream, and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Beat up till smooth, make up into rissole shapes, 
egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat. Drain 
on kitchen paper, and dish up on a folded napkin or 
paper. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — (i) Cut the tops from each of 
six potatoes, boiled or baked in their jackets. Scoop 
out the pulp, and mash to a smooth paste with three 
tablespoonfuls of butter; add cream, and salt and 
pepper to season, and a quarter of a cupful of grated 
cheese, and cook to a smooth paste. Take from the 
fire, and stir in one well-beaten egg. Fill the skins, 
and bake. 

Stuffed Potatoes. — (2) Peel some large potatoes, take 
out the inside, and put in each one a stuffing made 
as follows : — One cup of bread-crumbs, one cup of 
ground nuts, and a little chopped thyme and parsley. 
Put the potatoes, with two ounces of butter, in a baking 
tin to bake in a hot oven for an hour and a half. Baste 
frequently. 

Italian Potato Omelette. — Mince up two cold 
boiled potatoes, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and 
put them into a frying-pan in which two ounces 
of butter have been melted. Spread the potato one- 
third of an inch deep in the pan, and cook slowly 
over a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour, then 
turn over, as you would any other omelette, and cook 
the other side. Serve hot. 

Stewed Potatoes in a Paper Bag. — Wash and peel 
152 



POTATO 

as many potatoes as are wanted. Cut each into 
four thick slices and put into a greased bag, with a 
finely chopped peeled onion, one tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, half a cupful of dripping, salt and 
pepper to taste, and half a cupful of water. Bake in 
the oven for forty minutes or an hour. Turn out on 
to a hot dish, and serve at once. 

Nut and Potato Croquettes. — Two cupfuls of hot 
mashed potatoes and three tablespoonfuls of cream, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth of a teaspoonful 
of pepper, a few grains of cayenne, and a few drops of 
onion juice. Beat thoroughly, and add the yolk of an 
egg. Mix with a quarter of a cupful of cream until of 
the consistency of a thick paste ; then add another 
yolk of an egg, and leave it to cool. Make a mixture 
of ground nuts and a little cream, with the well- 
beaten white of an egg, and seasoning. Shape the 
potato mixture into small nests, fill the nests with 
nut mixture, cover with potato mixture, and roll into 
balls. Dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat, 
and drain on kitchen paper. 

Potato PufiF. — (i) Beat to a cream two cupfuls of cold 
mashed potatoes and two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter. Add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 
a cupful of cream or milk ; salt and pepper to season. 
Fold in the stiffly beaten white of the eggs and pour 
into a buttered baking dish, and bake until well puffed 
and brown, about three-quarters of an hour. 

Potato Puff. — (2) Beat with a fork three cold 
boiled potatoes ; add a pinch of salt, half a cupful 
of milk, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, two eggs 

153 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

well beaten, and enough flour to make a batter that 
will drop from a spoon ; sift in half a teaspoonful of 
baking powder with the flour. Drop by spoonfuls 
into deep fat, and fry brown. 

Escalloped Potatoes and Eggs. — Slice finely four 
cold boiled potatoes and six hard-boiled eggs. Put 
a layer of potatoes into a buttered baking dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover with a layer of 
boiled eggs, and repeat until the dish is full, having 
potatoes on the top. Pour over two cupfuls of thin 
cream and some white sauce. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, and sprinkle with grated cheese if desired. 
Bake until the crumbs are brown, half to three- 
quarters of an hour. Freshly boiled potatoes may be 
used in the same way. 

Potato Timbales. — Cook, drain, and rub through 
a sieve enough boiled potatoes to make one pound. 
Put irito a bowl with three ounces of butter melted, two 
whole eggs and the yolks of two. Season with salt, 
pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix thoroughly. 
Butter some plain timbale moulds, sprinkle with 
crumbs over the inside, fill with the potato mixture. 
Sprinkle with crumbs and dot with butter, and bake 
for one hour. Let the moulds stand for a few minutes 
before turning out. 

Potato with Cheese Sauce. — Boil and mash one 
dozen peeled potatoes. Season with salt and pepper 
and melted butter ; add enough milk to make very 
soft, and beat until very light. Heap into the centre 
of a baking dish and make a hole in the centre. 
Brush with the beaten white of egg, and brown in 

154 



PURSLANE 

the oven. Melt a cupfiil of bqtter, and stir in gradually 
five heaped tablespoonfuls of grated cheese and the 
beaten yolks of two eggs. Season with salt and 
cayenne. Stir until thick and smooth, and fill the 
hole in the potato mixture. Sprinkle with crumbs, 
and put into the oven for five minutes longer. 

Deviled Stuffed Potatoes. — Split lengthways, re- 
move the pulp from six baked potatoes. Mash 
smoothly, and add one hard-boiled egg chopped 
finely. Salt, cayenne, and onion juice to season, 
and a little made mustard. Fill the shells with the 
mixture, and brown in the oven. 



PURSLANE {Portulacea oleracea. Portulacacece). 

A light soil and a sunny border are best for this 
plant, which is a half-hardy annual. Successional 
sowings may be made from May to the beginning of 
August, in shallow drills ; the plants should stand 
six inches apart. Frequent waterings are necessary 
during dry weather. 

The leaves are gathered as required, and either 
cooked or used in salads. 

The season of this subject may be prolonged by 
means of successional sowings made in frames. 

Salad. — Purslane is a kitchen-garden annual which 
has antiscorbutic properties. There are several varie- 
ties of it, the best known being the golden purs- 
lane, which, properly dressed, makes a tasty and 
much appreciated salad. It is prepared like an 
ordinary salad, with the addition of pimpernel, 

155 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

chervil, and tarragon. The stalks of purslane can 
be pickled in vinegar, like gherkins. 

RADISH {Raphanus sativus. Cruciferce). 

The earliest radishes may be sown in a frame in 
January. A light, mellow soil is desirable, and if the 
slight bottom-heat of a nearly exhausted hotbed be 
available, the radishes will be all the earlier. For 
anything in the nature of forcing or framework it is 
important to select a quick-growing, forcing variety 
with a strong tendency to the formation of root 
rather than top, such as Early French Breakfast or 
Wood's frame varieties. Plenty of moisture and 
plenty of air during non-frosty days are the secrets 
of growing radishes in a frame. 

Later sowings of radish, beginning in March, may 
be made periodically, according to the demand, as 
catch crops beneath a warm wall or fence, then 
among early peas and in similar situations, and in 
summer in a cool spot, with plenty of moisture 
available. 

A radish must grow quickly and evenly, or it will 
be worthless. Therefore they must have plenty of 
moisture, and not be crowded ; half an inch apart 
is quite near enough to grow them, whether sown 
broadcast or in shallow drills- 
Winter radishes may be sown in July or August in 
drills six inches apart, the plants thinned to three inches 
in the rows. These form a pleasant addition to winter 
salads, and are pulled as wanted, peeled and sliced, 

156 



RHUBARB 

much in the manner of cucumbers. The best variety 
for winter salads is perhaps Large White Winter 
Spanish ; we have also grown the Chinese Rose 
Radish with success. Winter radishes are apt to be 
rather strong and pungent, and it is largely on account 
of its flavour we prefer the first named. 

RAMPION {Campanula Rapunculus. Cam-panulacece). 

This biennial native plant is not much used in the 
kitchen. Two sowings may be made of it, one in 
May, the other six weeks later. Seed should be 
sown very thinly in drills nine inches apart, and the 
plants thinned to three inches distance in the rows. 
Rampion requires a plentiful supply of water, and a 
fairly rich soil. 

The roots will stand in the ground all the winter, 
and may be dug for use as needed from October 
onwards. 

The roots and leaves are used either raw in salads, 
or the roots may be boiled and used after the manner 
of beetroots, or cooked and served as a vegetable, like 
parsnips. 

RHUBARB {Rheum. Polygonacece). 

As this is a permanent crop the ground should be 
deeply trenched and well manured for its reception. 
It prefers moist, cool soil, and is extremely hardy. 
It is best propagated by division of the root, a good 
crown bud with each root division. 

157 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

February is the best month to plant, just before 
the roots in the open would be naturally starting into 
growth. The distance between the plants will depend 
both upon the variety selected and the nature of the 
soil ; they can be advantageously planted more closely 
in a dry, thin soil than in a deep, cool loam, where 
they will naturally attain a much larger size. For 
the small garden a small early red variety is recom- 
mended, as this is a garden product well worth 
growing for an early crop of well-flavoured produce : 
eighteen to thirty inches distance should be allowed be- 
tween the plants, according to circumstances. A shady 
situation among fruit-trees will do well for rhubarb. 

The plants must not be pulled from the first year, 
and should have a mulch given towards the end of 
May to tide them over the summer. Late in January, 
or in February, boxes or pots should be placed over 
some of the crowns ; or a tripod of stakes may be 
placed over the crowns, and loose litter shaken over. 
We dislike rhubarb forced by means of hot manure, 
and think this method completely ruins the flavour. 

Through the summer the plants will be none the 
worse for a very occasional watering with weak liquid 
manure during showery weather. As the leaves die 
down during autumn they should be cleared away, 
and all made tidy for the winter. 

RHUBARB DISHES. 

Rhubarb Jam.— Peel the sticks of rhubarb, cut 
into short lengths, and weigh one pound of preserving 

158 



RHUBARB 

sugar ; put the rhubarb in a bowl and spread the sugar 
over, let it stand all night. Next day strain off the 
juice and put in the preserving pan with half a tea- 
spoonful of ground ginger to each pound of rhubarb, 
adding the finely grated rind and juice of three lemons ; 
put the pan by the side of the fire, stir as it comes to 
the boiling point, and then add the rhubarb. It should 
boil from thirty to forty minutes. Fill jam pots, and 
paper over while hot. 

Rhubarb Fool is made like gooseberry fool, and 
tarts also are treated in the same way. 

Rhubarb Wine. — Wipe twenty to twenty-five pounds 
of rhubarb with a damp cloth, but do not skin it; 
cut it into lengths, and crush it well in a wooden or 
earthenware vessel ; pour over it three to five gallons 
of cold water, to each gallon of liquid add three 
ounces of good preserving sugar, and the finely peeled 
rind, and juice of a lemon. Let it remain for ten 
days covered, but stirring it a little every day. At 
the end of ten days strain the liquid into another 
vessel, stirring till all its contents are dissolved ; then 
put it into a small cask, adding one ounce of isinglass 
dissolved previously in a little warm water, cover well 
the hole, and leave it for ten days ; then cork it well, 
and do not disturb the cask for about a year, when 
it will be ready to bottle. 

Stewed Rhubarb. — Take a dozen sticks of early red 
rhubarb, wash it and trim the ends; cut it with a 
sharp knife into two-inch or three-inch lengths ; put 
it into a stew jar in which there is already a syrup made 
from a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and half a pint 

159 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

of water ; let this syrup cook for a quarter of an hour, 
then drop the pieces of rhubarb into the boiling syrup, 
and cook slowly until tender, basting it, and being 
careful the pieces do not break ; less sugar may be 
needed. A piece of thin lemon rind and a teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice may be cooked with it. Serve in 
a glass dish, with whipped cream over, or Devonshire 
cream in a bowl, or custard in cups. 

SAGE {^Salvia officinalis. Labiate^. 

Sow in spring or early autumn in any good garden 
soil, either in the herb bed or as an edging to a 
pathway. 

The leaves may be used fresh or dried as a 
seasoning. 

SALSIFY ( Tragopogon parif alius. Composites) . 

Sometimes called "The Vegetable Oyster," sal- 
sify is a delicacy not too often seen in English 
gardens, yet it is easy to grow, very hardy, and a 
welcome addition to our winter list of vegetables. It 
should be sown in April, in ground without a trace 
of manure in the top spit, but with some well-matured 
stuff buried deeply. The drills should be a foot apart, 
and the seed sown thinly, yet, as it sometimes comes 
up rather irregularly, not so thinly as for some root 
crops — parsnips, for instance. Early in May the plants 
may be singled in the rows, and three weeks later 
thinned to four inches distance. Through the summer 

i6o 



SALSIFY 

the Dutch hoe should be kept at work between the 
rows to kill weeds and prevent evaporation. 

The roots may stay in the ground through the 
winter in a well-drained soil, and be dug as wanted. 

Very early in spring the flowering shoots push up, 
and may be gathered and cooked in the way of 
asparagus ; gloves should be used for gathering these 
shoots, as they exude a juice that stains. In the 
small garden, however, it is hardly worth while to 
sacrifice roots and space for this extra crop. It is 
said that, like raw tomatoes, the taste for salsify is an 
acquired one. It is worth acquiring. 

DISHES. 

Boiled Salsify. — Wash the salsify, put in clean water 
and scrape it, being very careful to keep it under 
water or it will be a bad colour, and immediately 
put into cold water to which two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar have been added, this will blanch it ; be sure 
the salsify is covered by the water. Put into a sauce- 
pan of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt for 
one hour, more or less, according to the size of the 
roots. Place neatly on a drainer, and cover with 
good white sauce (see Sauces). Or it may be served 
with maitre d'hotel, HoUandaise, onion or Italian 
sauce. Be careful not to leave the salsify exposed to 
the air or it will blacken. 

Stewed Salsify. — Scrape about twenty heads of 
salsify, and cut them into pieces about two inches 
long. Sprinkle them with salt, and steep in water and 

i6i L 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

milk. Cut a small onion, half a carrot, half a turnip, 
and half a head of celery into small pieces ; put these 
in a stewpan, cook for twenty minutes. Mix one 
ounce of flour with a little milk and stir in, fill up 
with one quart of water, stir and bring to boil. Put 
in the salsify, and let it simmer gently until tender. 
Add one tablespoonful of cream, one of chopped 
parsley, and a little lemon juice. Season with pepper, 
grated nutmeg, and caster sugar. Reheat and ar- 
range the salsify neatly on a dish. Garnish with 
fried button mushrooms, pour over the sauce, and 
serve hot. 

Escalloped Salsify. — Press boiled salsify through a 
sieve, season with salt, cayenne, butter, and celery 
salt, and moisten with milk. Put into a buttered 
baking dish, cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and 
bake, standing the dish in a pan of hot water until 
the salsify is brown, or use sliced, boiled salsify 
alternately with cream, or drawn butter sauce and 
seasoning, and buttered crumbs ; have sauce on the 
top. Cover with crumbs wetted with cream, and bake 
brown. 

Escalloped Salsify and Celery.— Put slices of cooked 
salsify in layers into a buttered baking dish, season 
each layer with chopped celery and cover with white 
sauce. Cover with butter and crumbs, and bake for 
twenty minutes. 

Fried Salsify.— Prepare according to directions 
given for boiled salsify. Drain, press through a 
sieve, and add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, 
and salt and pepper to season. Drop by spoonfuls 

162 



SALSIFY 

on a buttered griddle, fry brown, and serve with 
tomato sauce, or ketchup. 

Filleted Salsify.— Cook some salsify until tender, 
slice it into quarters, lengthways, and cut it into 
three-inch lengths. Dip in egg and bread-crumbs, 
and fry crisp. Serve with parsley sauce and garnish 
with slices of lemon and parsley. — Sidney H. Beard, 
Guide-book of The Golden Age. 

Salsify Cakes. — Prepare according to directions 
given for boiled salsify ; drain and mash, shape into 
small flat cakes, and fry brown in butter or dripping. 

Salsify Fritters. — Make a batter of two eggs, 
half a cupful of milk, a pinch of salt, and enough 
sifted flour to make it of a proper consistency. Grate 
the roots of a bunch of salsify into the batter, and 
fry by spoonfuls in deep fat, or mix mashed, cooked 
salsify with milk, and add one or two beaten eggs; 
add flour if necessary to make a stiff paste, and shape 
into small flat cakes. Fry brown in fat to cover. 

Salsify Saut6. — Prepare a bunch of salsify according 
to directions given for boiled salsify. Drain, cut into 
small pieces and saut6 in butter, with one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped mushrooms. Season with salt, pepper, 
and minced chives, parsley, and a few drops of vinegar. 

Salsify a la Poulette. — Prepare according to direc- 
tions given for boiled salsify, adding one table- 
spoonful each of salt and vinegar to the water. Cook 
until tender. Drain, serve with poulette sauce. 
Bechamel sauce may be used instead, or saucette 
cream mixed with melted butter. 

Savoy Cabbage. See under Q,2i!d'oz,g&. 
163 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

SCORZONERA (Scorzonero hispanica. Compositce). 

The culture of this vegetable is exactly the same 
as salsify ; it has perhaps the advantage of being 
rather hardier than the latter, but it is not of such 
a fine flavour. Where one is grown the other is 
scarcely required, and we ourselves now only grow 
salsify. It might perhaps be used in Northern 
England if salsify does not do well. 

Scorzonera is a Spanish variety of salsify, and the 
recipes under the heading of Salsify apply equally 
to it. 

SEAEALE {Crambe maritima. CrucifercB). 

This is a most valuable permanent crop, and in the 
opinion of some ranks equal with asparagus on the 
table. In addition its magnificent foliage makes it an 
object of beauty through the summer, and a plantation 
of seakale may well mark the transition of the flower 
garden to the vegetable ground. 

Seakale may be grown from seed, but it is more 
expeditious to obtain two-year-old plants from a 
nurseryman, or else early in March to propagate 
plants by means of root cuttings. By the latter 
method pieces of root four inches long are cut with 
a sharp knife. It is usual to cut the top end level, 
and the lower end slanting, to obviate the incon- 
venience of planting upside down. The root cuttings 
are then planted where they are to stand, and will 

164 



SEAKALE 

give a slight crop of kale the following spring, as the 
first, or flowering, shoots must be removed in any 
case. 

The ground can hardly be too deeply dug or richly 
prepared for this fine permanent crop. In March the 
plants should be put out either in rows three feet 
apart, the plants six inches distant in the rows, or else 
in clumps of five plants, a plant at each corner of 
a nine-inch square, and one in the centre ; the 
clumps should be thirty inches to two feet apart. 
By "doubling" them, that is, arranging the clumps 
W fashion, the rows thirty inches apart, and the 
clumps three feet in the rows, ground will be 
economised. These are the best arrangements for 
the small garden ; but they are in the nature of a 
compromise, as eighteen inches distance between 
the crowns will give much heavier individual heads 
of seakale. 

The after cultivation consists in keeping the ground 
clear of weeds, giving a mulch in summer, and occa- 
sional dressings of salt or nitrate in showery weather, 
say salt once, and nitrate three times in the summer, 
and salt again in November and nitrate early in the 
year, when the crowns are set to blanch. In the 
autumn the ground should be cleared up, and all 
rotten leaves removed. 

If it be desired to bring on seakale quickly, manure 
may be used to force it into growth. This method 
does not improve the flavour, but it is not such utter 
ruin as in the case of rhubarb. Boxes or pots are 
laid over the crowns to be forced, and hot manure 

165 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

heaped around and over to the depth of a good foot. 
But the cleanest and best way to blanch seakale is 
to cover the crowns with clean dry ash from the 
grates — not ash, be it understood, which has a care- 
less cook's admixture of all sorts of rotting fish bones 
and other filth. A large body of ashes will be 
required, so their accumulation must be set about 
a long time previously. At first the depth of ash must 
be slight, say six inches ; then as the buds show signs 
of growth, it may be gradually increased to fifteen 
inches at least. Seakale grown in rows should be 
blanched in this way, or with a layer of ash six inches 
deep ; then when this is beginning to crack with the 
growing shoots, earth laid on after the manner of 
earthing up celery. Whatever the method pursued, 
seakale must be blanched in absolute darkness, or it 
will be bitter and worthless for the table. 

When the crop has been cut, a sprinkling of loose 
litter should be shaken over the stems, which should 
be cut level with the ground, in order to protect them 
from a too sudden acquaintance with our genial 
Enghsh spring. Conical, flower-bearing buds must 
be removed from the stocks, as the plants must not 
be allowed to flower. In May the shoots must be 
thinned, one or at the itiost two stout shoots left on 
each stem, all the rest rubbed out. This method will 
leave good fat buds in autumn, whence will come 
correspondingly stout growth to be cut for use next 
year. 



i66 



SHALLOT 



DISHES. 



Boiled Seakale. — Boil in salted water and vinegar 
for twenty minutes to half an hour, drain, and arrange 
neatly, lengthwise, on a drainer ; pour over a good 
white sauce, and serve very hot. 

Another Method of boiling Seakale. — Soak for half an 
hour in cold water, and cook for twenty-five minutes 
in boiling water. Drain, press out the liquid, chop 
finely, and reheat. Season with salt and pepper, and 
pour over good melted butter. 

Cooked seakale can also be served as a salad. 
Cut it into short pieces, season with salt, pepper, oil, 
and vinegar, or lemon juice. Mix carefully. Dish up, 
garnish to taste, and serve. 

Creamed Seakale. — Tie some seakale up in bundles, 
and put them in boiling salted water ; boil till quite 
tender, about thirty minutes, drain well, take the 
s^ng off. Put some slices of toast in a dish, arrange 
the^eakale on them, and pour over a good Bechamel 
sairce, made with a little double cream. 
/For other ways of cooking seakale, adapt those 
recipes dealing with celery and asparagus. 

SHALLOT {Allium Ascalonicum. Liliacece). 

Shallots enjoy a rich soil, somewhat similar to that 

given to onions ; they follow celery well, the old 

manure and well-broken-up ground being exactly 

what they like. They are propagated by division of 

167 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the offsets. These cloves, as they are usually called, 
are planted in rows nine inches to a foot apart, the 
cloves four inches asunder in the row. Any good 
day in February these may be planted, and they 
should not be too deeply buried. 

Keep the rows weeded with the Dutch hoe, and 
when the leaves wilt and give indications of ripening 
in July or August, pull the crop, let it dry for a couple 
of days, and store the bulbs for use in a dry place. 

Shallots may also be raised from seed sown in March. 

Shallots have a strong onion flavour, and are largely 
used for seasoning, and they make excellent pickle. 

SORREL {Rumex Acetosa. Polygonacem). 

Sow seed in spring, and thin out to six inches, or 
propagate by division of established plants in March 
or the beginning of April. 

These perennial plants last for several years, and 
the leaves should be gathered singly. There are 
several varieties, and probably the Broad-leaved 
French Sorrel is as good as any. Sorrel is not 
sufficiently appreciated in this country. A few leaves 
make an excellent addition to a spring salad. We 
find it better to strip the leaves from the mid-rib and 
use the fragments for salads, discarding the mid-rib. 

DISHES. 

Pur^e of Sorrel. — Pick over and wash the sorrel 
several times, add a good handful of chervil, squeeze 

i68 



SPINACH 

out any water, cook them for a moment in boiling 
water, take them out, and put them into cold water ; 
drain again, then mince them up ; put a piece of 
butter into a casserole with the sorrel, a good pinch 
of flour, salt, and pepper, pour over a little milk, 
and work in two or three eggs, well beaten, into the 
mixture little by little ; put it in a dish, and garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs. 

Stewed Sorrel. — After washing and cleaning some 
sorrel, boil till tender, then rub through a sieve, 
and put into a stewpan ; add two tablespoonfuls of 
Bechamel sauce, with a little salt and sugar, and 
stew for a few minutes with one ounce of fresh 
butter, and serve. 

Sorrel Salad. — Take the young leaves of sorrel, 
and after washing them, dry them, and treat them 
as other vegetables for salads. 

Sorrel and Vermicelli Soups. See Soups. 

SPINACH {Sptnacia oleracea. Chenopodiacece). 

In the small garden, spinach is chiefly of value as a 
late spring crop, coming in between the late broccoli 
and the early peas, and it may be treated as a catch- 
crop, sown from mid-February onwards till late 
March between successive rows of peas, or in similar 
situations. Sown at the same time as the peas, it 
will be well out of their way before they are in pod, 
or even full blossom. 

For spring use, the round seeded variety is usually 

sown, but its incurable habit of bolting into flower 

169 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

in hot soil or season induces many good gardeners 
to grow the sturdier prickly seeded sort both for 
spring and winter use. The seed should go into 
shallow drills, and the plants be thinned to nine 
inches in the rows. Thin sowing is recommended. 

As a winter crop, prickly seeded spinach may be 
sown from mid-July to the end of August. The rows 
should be in the open, and fifteen inches apart, the 
plants thinned to six inches in the row. The earlier 
July sowings will give spinach during the autumn ; 
the later, early in the spring or late in winter. As 
a rule, unless there be special liking for this crop, 
the small garden will hardly accommodate it except 
to the exclusion of more profitable and worthy 
subjects. 

Spinach beet is a plant which will give many dishes 
of green stuff through the winter, if the gardener 
care to find room for it. Sown in April or March, 
where it is to stand, it should be in rows fifteen 
inches apart, the plants thinned to three inches. The 
larger leaves are gathered as required throughout 
winter and early spring, a succession of leaves 
coming on to replace those removed. Here, again, 
is a subject we scarce care to trouble to grow, but 
it has the merit of yielding well over a long period, 
and may come in usefully if the winter frosts have 
cut our brassicas about too cruelly. 

General Directions for Cooking Spinach. — Spinach 
is apt to be gritty, so that great care is needed in 
preparing it. The leaves should be lifted out of 
the water and piled in a colander ; in this way 

170 



SPINACH 

the sand is left at the bottom of the bowl. Repeat 
the process in several waters. Spinach shrinks very 
much in cooking, so that its bulk when cooked is 
very small compared to what it was when raw. 

Spinach contains so much water that none should 
be used in cooking it. Take a gallon saucepan, and 
nearly fill it with well-washed spinach ; put it at the 
side of the range, and stir very frequently with a 
wooden spoon. Soon the leaves will shrink, and 
enough liquid will have flowed from them to cover 
the greens. Add a small teaspoonful of salt and a 
piece of soda the size of a pea. Put on the lid, and 
let it simmer slowly for half an hour. Drain and 
press well before serving. It may be returned to the 
pan with a piece of butter and a sprinkle of pepper 
and well shaken for a minute. 

Spinach Puflf. — Chop some cooked spinach very 
fine, or rub it through a sieve, add a tablespoonful 
of butter melted, a little salt and pepper to taste, 
and to a pint of vegetable use a cupful of cream, 
the beaten yolks of two eggs, and the stiffly beaten 
whites of three eggs ; mix in the latter carefully after 
all the other ingredients. Turn into a buttered dish, 
bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven. Serve in the 
dish in which it is cooked. 

Creamy Spinach. — Cook the spinach, press it in a 
strainer, and then rub it through a wire sieve ; put it 
into a saucepan, with a small piece of butter, one table- 
spoonful of milk, or preferably cream, stir while warm- 
ing it up, add a little salt and pepper, and garnish with 
fried croutons. Poached eggs may be served with it. 

171 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Sweet Spinach. — Clean your spinach and wash it 
several times ; put in a good handful of chervil and 
a sprinkle of white pepper ; let them drain dry, cook 
them for a few minutes in boiling water ; take them out, 
and put them into cold water ; drain them again dry, 
and chop them finely, and simmer in a casserole with 
a good piece of butter for a quarter of an hour. Add 
a very little salt and grated nutmeg and a little sugar, 
moisten with cream, stir. Serve very hot on a dish 
with fried croutons and slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

Spinach Fritters. — Chop finely or pass through a 
sieve one pound of cooked spinach, season with salt 
and pepper, and add the yolk of one egg, and sufficient 
bread-crumbs to make the mixture stiff. Form into 
flat round cakes, dip into frying batter, and cook in 
boiling fat. Serve with a garnish of scrambled eggs, 
or poached eggs. 

Spinach Souffle. — (i) Cook some spinach, rub it 
through a sieve, and add two or three well-beaten 
eggs, and a small quantity of milk with butter and 
salt. Mix it thoroughly, put it in a well-buttered 
sou£fl6 dish, and bake for ten minutes. This makes 
a simple, yet tasty entree. 

(2) Mix a cupful of cooked chopped spinach with 
the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and stir over the fire 
until the egg is set. Cool, then fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites of three eggs. Fill a buttered baking 
dish, or individual soufH6 dishes, and bake for a 
quarter of an hour. Serve immediately. 

(3) Mix two tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked 
spinach with the beaten yolks of two eggs, a table- 

172 



TOMATO 

spoonful of melted butter, a,nd salt and pepper to 
season. Cool, mix with two or three tablespoonfuls 
of cream and the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. 
Turn into a buttered baking dish and bake im- 
mediately. The cream may be omitted, and milk used 
instead. 

(4) Cook and chop a peck of spinach, add a well- 
beaten egg, a tablespoonful of butter, salt, sugar, and 
pepper to season. - Cool, add two tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Mix thoroughly, and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites of two eggs. Put in a buttered baking dish, 
sprinkle with sugar, cover for ten minutes, then un- 
cover for five minutes, and serve immediately. 

STACHYS TUBERIPERA. See Artichoke. 



TOMATO {Solanum Lycopersicum. Solanacece). 

The tomato, or love apple, is to be considered, for 
the small garden, mainly an outdoor subject. It is 
useless to attempt to grow it without glass in cold 
and backward districts, as it requires plenty of full 
sunshine to bring it to perfection. Even in such a 
district, however, a few plants put out by a south 
wall or fence may yield a good return ; it may also 
be fruited well, trained under the lights of a cold 
frame. 

It is important to have well-grown and forward 
plants of an early variety, ready to go out early in 
June. This is not difficult with the aid of a hot-bed 

^11 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and couple of frames ; better still, add to these re- 
quirements a cool house or glass-roofed tool-shed. 

Select then such a variety as Sutton's Earliest of 
All, and sow in pots or pans, early in March, in the 
hot-bed. Warmth and moisture will soon bring the 
young plants up, and as soon as they are in their 
second leaf, they must be potted off, into " sixty-four " 
size pots, with an inch of last year's hot-bed at the 
bottom of the pots, and a nice compost on top. The 
frame must be kept closed, or nearly so, until the 
plants have taken hold. It may be found well to 
spread a newspaper over the glass, to protect them 
from the effects of the full sun for a couple of days. 
Thereafter the ordinary frame management will suit 
them all right. In an astonishingly short time the 
pots will become full of roots, and late in April it 
will be necessary to give them a second shift. 
Without disturbing the roots, they must now go 
into four-inch pots at least. Again some good stuff 
must be put in the bottom of the pots, but the roots 
should not be placed directly upon it. They will 
scarcely feel that they have been moved if it be 
skilfully done, and they must be grown on with 
daily watering, as close to the glass as possible. 
A third move is advised, about the twentieth of May, 
into six-inch pots, and this time a slender stick must 
be placed to each plant, and tied with bast. At this 
time those plants for which room can be found in 
the greenhouse must go into the boxes they are to fruit 
in. These boxes should be about a foot deep, a good 
layer of old manure should be mixed in with the 

174 



TOMATO 

lower layer of soil, and the boxes two-thirds filled with 
nice compost. As the season advances, this leaves 
room for fresh earth to be added, with perhaps a 
touch of guano, thus feeding the plants from above, 
and giving them fresh soil into which they will root 
freely. 

At the time of the last repotting the plants will 
be some fifteen inches high, showing bud, and in 
many cases flower. They must still be kept warm o' 
nights, grown near the glass, and kept well watered. 
Many gardeners put them out at the end of May 
without this third repotting, but we are convinced 
that far less check, and far better results follow, if 
the plants are kept growing on, until the loth or 14th 
of June, when the nights have become warm and 
genial, and the plants have a bunch of fruit set. 

When planting time comes, each plant should go 
out alongside fence or wall, or along the paths, 
dodged in among the other crops. To those in the 
open, where wall or fence does not afford support, 
stout five-foot stakes must be provided. There must 
be no mistake about this ; the stakes are to be driven 
a good foot into the ground, as, if the tomatoes go 
on well, they will have to support many pounds' 
weight of fruit. The tomatoes must be watered for 
a week or so after planting out, and until rain has 
relieved the gardener from this duty, and the plants 
have settled in. 

As they grow the plants must be tied to the stakes, 
and the side shoots be rubbed out twice a week. 
The aim is to keep the plants to one stem carrying 

175 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

three good bunches of fruit. To facilitate watering 
in dry weather, the plants should have been set in 
little cup-shaped depressions in the ground. Be 
careful only to remove the axillary side shoots, and 
not the flowering bunches, which are not axillary to 
a leaf. This dis-budding is a pleasant enough job, 
except that the tomato juice stains the fingers a deep 
orange ; provide against this with gloves or abundant 
soap and water. 

At the beginning of August, when three good 
trusses of fruit are set on each plant, nip out the 
top of the leader, and do not allow the plants to grow 
any more or throw more flower. Force them to 
concentrate their attention upon perfecting the fruit 
already set. Remove with caution any leaves that 
overhang the fruit, and so intercept the full sunlight, 
but do not by any means strip the leaves. It is 
unnecessary to allow the fruit to completely ripen 
on the plants, but as soon as they show colour they 
may be gathered and laid out in dryness and cleanli- 
ness, under the lights of a frame or near the glass 
roof of the tool-shed. This will save the plants a 
certain effort, and will promote the interests of the 
fruit still coming towards maturity. When the 
shorter days of September come in, and the sun 
perceptibly loses his power, the remaining fruit may 
be gathered and hung up in bunches on the stalks 
on which it grew, to come to what ripeness it may. 
At any rate these bunches will provide good store 
of tomatoes to fry with the morning bacon far into 
October. 

176 



TOMATO 

If heat be available, seed sown in January and 
carried on in moderate heat will give fruit in May. 
The autumn crop may also be prolonged, but sun 
is needed to produce really ripe fruit, and it is 
questionable whether the amateur is well advised in 
striving to grow tomatoes after November has set in. 

DISHES. 

Broiled Tomatoes. — Cut the tomatoes in two, and 
leave the skins on. Place in a well-buttered frying 
pan, with the skin side down, dust with salt and 
pepper, and broil, without turning, over a moderate fire 
for ten minutes, or till tender. Lay them on a hot 
dish, and spread each piece over with melted butter. 
Or the tomatoes may be cut in thick slices, covered 
with olive oil, and then broiled, turning frequently. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. — Season with salt and pepper 
some ripe tomatoes, that have been skinned and sliced. 
Put a layer of fine bread-crumbs in the bottom of a 
buttered pudding dish, then put a layer of the sliced 
tomatoes ; sprinkle over them a little sugar and a few 
drops of onion juice, then a layer of bread-crumbs, 
and continue until the dish is full, having the last 
layer of bread-crumbs ; put small pieces of butter here 
and there on the top, and bake in a hot oven for 
twenty minutes. Serve hot in the same dish. 

Tomato Sandwiches. — (i) Cut slices of thin bread 
and butter, and spread them with tomato pulp, 
seasoning with a little mustard, pepper, and salt, put 
another slice of bread and butter on the top, press 

177 M 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the sandwich together, remove the crust, cut into 
neat fingers, and serve on a d'oyley, decorated with 
parsley. 

(2) Slices of skinned ripe tomatoes, seasoned with 
a little vinegar, salt, and pepper, introduced instead 
of tomato pulp, make very good sandwiches. 

Tomato Fritters. — (i) Cut peeled tomatoes into 
slices, season with pepper and salt. For the batter, 
beat up one egg, add a cupful of milk, a pinch of 
salt, one tablespoonful of olive oil, then sift in half 
a cupful of flour. Mix well till smooth and glossy. 
Allow to stand in a cool place for one hour ; then add 
one teaspoonful of baking powder. Dip the slices 
of tomato into the batter, and place them gently in 
a frying basket, and fry in smoking-hot fat to a golden 
colour. Drain on white paper, dish, and garnish 
with fried parsley. Serve hot. 

(2) Peel some fresh tomatoes — if they are very 
large, one for each person will be sufficient. Divide 
each tomato into thirds or quarters, and fry them 
slowly in butter, turning them as they brown. When 
nearly done, dust with salt and pepper, and sift a little 
flour over them — a trifle more than a heaped table- 
spoonful to four tomatoes. Finally, add a cupful of 
cream or rich milk, and simmer until the gravy 
thickens. Serve on slices of toasted bread. 

Baked Tomatoes stu£fed with Macaroni. — This 

dish is prepared from left-over macaroni, which has 

been baked with cheese in a white sauce. Remove 

the pulp from five large smooth tomatoes, chop finely, 

and mix with one cupful of macaroni. Season 

178 



TOMATO 

well with salt and pepper. Fill the tomato cases, 
cover with buttered bread-crumbs and grated cheese, 
and bake until browned. 

Tomato Omelette. — One cupful of bread-crumbs, 
with milk enough to barely cover ; let them stand 
for half an hour. Brown a small onion and two 
cloves of garlic ; when done, add half a pint of canned 
tomatoes, cook until smooth, seasoning with salt, 
pepper, and cayenne. Put a good -sized lump of 
butter in a large frying pan when hot, pour in five 
or six eggs, well beaten, and the soaked bread-crumbs, 
well beaten together and seasoned with pepper and 
salt. Cook until set, sprinkle with grated cheese, lay 
the tomato pur6e on the omelette, fold, and put in a 
quick oven for a minute. Serve at once. 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes — Remove the insides 
from six tomatoes, mince, and add some chopped 
parsley, half a pint of grated nuts, two ounces of 
bread-crumbs, pepper and salt to taste, and one egg. 
Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, and bake for half 
an hour, first placing a small piece of butter on each 
tomato. 

Tomatoes k la Noisette {Mrs. B. C. Stephenson' s 
Recipe). — Scald six ripe tomatoes in boiling water, 
skin them, and bake them in a buttered saut6 pan ; 
then pass them through a wire sieve ; chop two 
shallots up finely, and fry them in an ounce of butter ; 
add two ounces of peeled and chopped walnuts, a 
dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, an ounce of 
bread-crumbs, and an ounce of grated cheese, and the 
tomato pur6e. Stir this over a quick fire, season with 

179 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

salt, pepper, and cayenne, beat two eggs well into the 
mixture, and keep stirring until set. Spread this on 
a round of hot buttered toast, cover with grated 
cheese, and serve hot. 

Tomato Sauce. See Sauces. 

Tomato Soup. See Soups. 

Tomato Salads. See Salads. 

Tomatoes au Gratin. — Blanch the tomatoes, skin 
them, and place in a well - buttered fire-proof dish. 
Mix one cupful of tomato sauce with one dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder or paste and one heaped 
tablespoonful of red currant jelly. Boil it up for 
eight minutes, season the tomatoes, and pour the 
prepared sauce over them. Sprinkle with grated 
cheese and fine bread-crumbs and a little melted 
butter, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 
Serve in a ring of plain boiled rice. 

Panned Tomatoes. — To pan tomatoes, cut the 
tomatoes into halves, place them in a baking pan, skin 
side down, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, and 
put in the centre of each a tiny bit of butter. Bake 
slowly until soft. Take up, and add to the liquor in 
the pan one pint of milk. Moisten two level table- 
spoonfuls of flour with a little cold milk, add it to the 
pan, and stir constantly until boiling ; add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of pepper, and pour it 
over the tomatoes. Garnish with squares of toast, 
and serve. 

Tomato Rarebit. — Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
into the chafing dish, and, when melted, add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir until well blended ; 

i8o 



TOMATO 

then pour on gradually, while stirring constantly, 
three-fourths of a cupful of cream, and as soon as the 
mixture begins to thicken, add three-fourths of a 
cupful of stewed and strained tomatoes, mixed with 
one-eighth of a teaspoonful of soda ; then add two 
cupfuls of soft mild cheese, cut in small pieces, and 
two eggs, slightly beaten. Season to taste. 

Tomato Aspic Salad. — To one pint of strained 
tomatoes add one scant teaspoonful of salt, a few 
grains of cayenne pepper, half a teaspoonful of onion 
juice, and half an ounce of gelatine. Let it stand for 
half an hour, then bring to the boiling point ; put into 
small moulds to harden. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
a spoonful of mayonnaise. This will serve six persons. 

Creole Tomato Eggs. — Cook a can of tomatoes with 
one green pepper and a little salt until the tomatoes 
are reduced by half; then pour the tomatoes on to 
five rounds of buttered toast, and place on each of 
these one poached egg, and keep hot. Meanwhile 
melt a heaped tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan 
over the fire, and allow it to get brown ; then add one 
tablespoonful of either lemon juice or vinegar. Let 
it just come to the boil, and pour it over the eggs, 
seasoning them with salt and pepper. 

Tomato Relish. — To one peck of tomatoes, rather 
finely chopped, four cupfuls of chopped celery, eight 
onions, chopped rather finely, eight small peppers, cut 
into thin slices, two pounds of brown sugar, one cupful 
of salt, two ounces of white mustard-seed, two quarts 
of vinegar, and one tablespoonful of grated horse- 
radish. Cook all together, and drain some of the 

i8i 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

juice from the tomatoes. Mix thoroughly, and boil 
for a quarter of an hour ; put in glass jars, and keep 
in a cool dark place. 



TURNIP (Brassica rapa. Cruciferm). 

For the small garden, this may be looked upon 
as one of the minor vegetables, for which there is 
no great demand. The smaller, quickly growing 
sorts are the varieties to select, as they occupy the 
ground for a shorter time, and are more tender and 
less coarse in flavour than the grosser kinds. 

A sowing may be made in April of such turnip as 
Early Six Weeks in a drill alongside a row of peas 
or broad beans. The seed must be thinly sown, and 
black cotton must be stretched above to provide 
against the attentions of the chaffinch. As soon as 
the plants are in the second leaf they must be singled, 
and later thinned to four inches in the row. 

The autumn sowing of maincrop turnips may be 
made about mid-July ; also a quick-growing kind may 
be sown again. The gardener must be prepared to 
repeat this sowing if the turnip fly play havoc with 
his crop during dry weather, and on this account 
it is not well to thin too drastically until the plants 
have really started to grow. A second sowing about 
the i2th of August will give a good chance of parti- 
ally grown plants to stand through the winter, and 
give in early spring a few dishes of that delicious 
green, turnip-tops. 

182 



TURNIP 



TURNIP DISHES. 

To Boil Turnips {Garden, White).— ^2t&\i thoroughly, 
put into clean water, peel, and throw into cold water. 
Put into a saucepan of boiling salted water for half 
an hour ; if tender, drain and dish them on a drainer, 
pour over white sauce, or Bechamel sauce. 

To Boil Turnips {Swedes, Field Grown).— Prepare 
as above, then cut in quarter and halve these, making 
the size uniform, boil in salted water for half an hour, 
drain, and mash them with a little butter and a very 
little hot milk, pepper, and salt. Pile up, and serve 
hot. 

Turnip Entremets. — Having peeled your turnips, 
fry them in butter, and when they are coloured, add 
a good tablespoonful of flour, stir well, and then add 
some stock, and a very little sugar ; cook them over 
a slow fire, dish them up, and cover them with the 
sauce. 

Boiled Turnip Tops. — Wash the greens thoroughly, 
and boil for half an hour in salted water with a 
tiny piece of soda, drain, and season with salt and 
pepper, add a little butter; or, after draining, rub 
through a sieve and mix with a little brown sauce. 

Baked Turnips.^ — Peel, parboil, and cut into slices, 
put into a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with seasoned 
crumbs, moisten with milk or stock, and bake until 
brown. 

Cream Turnips. — Cut boiled turnips into dice, re- 
heat in a cream or white sauce, season with salt, 

183 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

pepper, and sugar, and serve on toast. Add a little 
grated nutmeg if desired. Brown sauce may be used 
instead of white. 

Turnip Charlotte. — Boil white turnips until tender, 
drain and rub them through a sieve. To one cupful 
of pulp add a quarter of a cupful of thick cream, 
salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to season, and the 
stififly-beaten whites of three eggs. Turn into a 
buttered mould, and bake in a pan of hot water, until 
the centre is firm. Turn out and serve with white 
or Bechamel sauce. 

Turnip Croquettes. — Wash, peel, and slice turnips, 
boil them in salted water until very soft. Drain, press 
out the liquid, and wring dry in a cloth. Season with 
salt and pepper, mix to a smooth paste with the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Cool, shape into croquettes, 
dip in egg and then in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 

Turnips with Sweet Potatoes. — Boil and mash 
separately two yellow turnips and four large sweet 
potatoes, season with salt, pepper, and butter, mix, 
and beat until very light, put into a buttered baking 
dish with melted butter, and bake for twenty minutes. 

Glazed Turnips. — (i) Boil small peeled turnips in 
rich stock to cover, for half an hour, add a pinch 
of sugar, drain, reduce the stock by rapid boiling. 
Brown the turnips in the oven, basting with the stock, 
and serve very hot. 

(2) Peel small turnips, and boil for ten minutes 
in salted water to cover. Drain and saut6 in butter, 
sprinkle with sugar, add a little stock and cook until 
tender. Season with salt, pepper, and a little cinna- 

184 



VEGETABLE MARROW 

mon and nutmeg (if liked). Thicken the gravy with 
flour browned with butter. 

Pur^e of Turnips. — Peel, slice, and boil until soft 
in salted water, rub through a sieve, season with 
pepper and salt, and thicken with a tablespoonful 
of flour cooked in butter. Add half a cupful of hot 
cream, in which a bit of soda has been dissolved, 
bring to the boil, take from the iire and add a well 
beaten egg. Season with a little onion juice if de- 
sired. 

Stuffed Turnips. — Boil five turnips until soft. Drain, 
cut a slice from the top of each and scoop out the 
pulp. Mash the pulp smoothly, season with salt, 
pepper, and butter, sprinkle with flour, moisten with 
cream and add the well beaten yolk of an egg. Fill 
the shells, and put on the tops. Brush with beaten 
egg, and brown in the oven. 

Turnips au Gratin. — Prepare according to direc- 
tions given for Cauliflower au gratin. 

WITLOEP (see Chicory). 



VEGETABLE MARROW {Cucurbita ovifera. 
Ord. Cucurbitacece). 

In its early stages the cultivation of marrows pro- 
ceeds on the same lines as that of cucumbers. There 
are several varieties to select from, but the long green 
marrow is probably the best in flavour, and gives a 
large return. 

The seed should be sown in pots in March or April, 
185 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and must be grown in the hot-bed. The plants must 
be kept well watered and warm, and in May they 
should be put out on richly prepared ground under 
cold frames. Every precaution should be taken to 
protect them from late frosts. 

The vegetable marrow is hardier than the cucumber, 
and in June, plants not put out earlier may be planted 
in well-prepared ground in the open. Water must 
be given freely during dry weather, both to the plants 
in frames and to those outside. 

As the vines grow, the tops should be pinched out 
to induce them to break back. And this pinching 
out should be continued, the shoot being pinched 
above each set fruit. This results in short-jointed 
plants well crowded with fruit. The lights from the 
frames may be removed about the 14th of June. 

It is a mistake to let the fruit attain its full size 
before cutting. Small half-grown marrows are more 
tender and of far better flavour than large, hard fruit, 
which are only suitable for pickling. 

DISHES. 

Boiled Vegetable Marrow. — Peel some marrows, 
quarter them, and remove the seeds, put them in 
boiling salted water for one hour, or even longer, 
and boil them till tender, serve with white buttered 
sauce. It is not easy to over-cook a marrow, they 
are often under-cooked, and are then very indiges- 
tible. 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow. — Peel a medium-sized 
i86 



VEGETABLE MARROW 

marrow, and remove the seeds, keeping the marrow 
whole. Prepare the following stuffing : 

Two or three chopped and fried onions, six ounces 
blanched nuts or almonds (these should be ground, 
and also fried with the onions), six ounces of bread- 
crumbs, pepper and salt, one chopped hard boiled 
egg, and one raw egg to bind the whole. Fill the 
marrow with this mixture, and steam for half an 
hour, to partly cook the marrow. Now place in a 
baking tin, cover with bread-crumbs, place some small 
pieces of butter on the top, and bake for another 
half hour, until the marrow is quite soft, and a nice 
rich brown. Serve with brown gravy. 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow No. 2. — Cut a marrow 
in half. Scoop out the pith and pips. Stuff with the 
following mixture : 

One cupful of bread-crumbs, any ground nuts, a 
little sage, an ounce of boiled onions well chopped, 
one ounce of nutter, seasoned and mixed with a well- 
beaten egg. Tie the two halves with string, and 
bake for forty minutes in a well greased tin. Baste 
frequently with nutter, and serve with brown gravy. 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow No. 3. — Having peeled 
the marrow, cut it in half, lengthways, and remove the 
seeds, fry some mushrooms lightly in butter, add 
bread-crumbs and seasoning to taste, fill the marrow 
with this force meat, tie the two halves together 
with a string, and steam them gently for about two 
hours over boiling water, and serve with white 
sauce. 

Vegetable Marrow Fillets. — Cut the marrow into 
187 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

fillets. Peel, cook, and allow to get quite cold. Dip 
into frying batter, and cook in boiling fat. Serve 
with any cheese dish. 

Pur6e of Vegetable Marrow. — ^Take six small vege- 
table marrows, and peel, cut in slices and put in a 
stewpan, with two ounces of butter. Set over a 
quick fire for half an hour, stirring constantly. Add 
two and a half pints of stock, season with pepper 
and salt, and boil for twenty minutes. Pass through 
a sieve, return to the saucepan, add three tablespoon- 
fuls of cream. Boil for a few minutes, and serve 
with croutons. 

Mashed Vegetable Marrow. — After boiling the 
marrows in salted water, rub them through a fine 
sieve, pour the puree into a stewpan, in which there 
is a little melted butter, add a little cream and a little 
pepper, stir it over the fire for five or six minutes, 
dredging in a little flour to thicken it slightly. It 
takes half an hour to cook. 

Vegetable Marrow with Cheese. — Peel some green 
marrows, and cut them in quarters (after taking out 
the seeds), put them in a saut6 pan, with an ounce of 
butter, pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, put the 
pan on the fire for a quarter of an hour, shaking it 
from time to time, pour a little cream over them, and 
a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, put the 
marrow into an oblong dish, cover with bread-crumbs 
and grated Parmesan cheese, put it for a few minutes 
into a hot oven, and serve with piquant sauce. 



i88 



SALAD PLANTS 

SALAD PLANTS— BRITISH AND CONTINENTAL. 

By W, F. Giles [of Messrs. Sutton & Sons, Reading. 

Salads just now are recommended by the medical 
profession, besides being a popular dish, and so I 
cannot do better than give Mr. Giles's list of plants 
for this purpose, though practically nearly every 
vegetable grown can be used for cooked or uncooked 
salads, the composition of which depends on the taste 
of the consumer. 

Australian or Golden Cress. — Belongs to the same 
class as the garden cress, but the leaves are broad 
and almost yellow in colour, and is cultivated in 
exactly the same way. 

Belle Isle or American Land Cress. — It resembles 
somewhat the water cress ; in flavour, however, it is 
more pungent, but it is a useful plant as a component 
of salads. 

Cabbage Lettuce. — Often seen in many gardens in 
the spring. 

Celeriac — Turnip-rooted Celery. — Is not much in 
request in this country, although in France and 
America it is largely grown. It is chiefly used for 
soup flavouring and served cooked, although it can 
of course be included in salad. There are white, 
golden, and green forms. 

Chives — Chenopodium Amaranticolor. — This is a 

plant which has only recently been heard of in 

England. It grows to a height otfive or six feet, and 

189 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

produces a large quantity of succulent leaves, which 
are green in colour but marked with purple. In 
habit of growth it resembles the Orache or mountain 
spinach, but continues in use for a longer period. 
The seed can be sown in pots in the spring and 
transplanted, and the plants will continue to bear 
young leaves all through the summer and well into 
the autumn. A little of it can be added to the salad 
bowl, but it should be used sparingly. 

Lettuce. — One of the most useful salad plants. 

Mercury or Good King Henry. — Although usually 
cooked like spinach, it can be eaten in a mixed salad. 

Orache or Mountain Spinach, of which there are the 
white and red varieties. — The leaves, which are large, 
can be used either boiled as spinach, or mixed with 
other ingredients as a salad. 

Fimpinella or Salad Burnet. — Burnet is an old- 
fashioned herb, and is called by the French and 
Italians " Pimpinella." In Italy it is so highly prized 
that they have a proverb which says : 

" That salad is neither good or fair, 
If Pimpinella be not there." 

It has a very distinct flavour, and is quite easily 
grown. The plant is perennial, very hardy, and will 
grow almost anywhere. It will, in fact, continue 
green during the greater part of the year, and may 
be used in the winter when little other salad is to be 
had. Seed is usually sown in spring and summer, 
and the leaves, which are produced in great abund- 
ance, are tender, and used as salad. 

190 



- f SALAD PLANTS 

Poir^e, Swiss Chard, or Leaf Beet. — I have now 
enumerated most of the cultivated plants which are 
used for salad purposes either in this country or on 
the Continent, but still the list is not complete. 
There are various wild ones which are sometimes 
used ; in fact it is said that the poorer French and 
Italians gather almost anything green and tender and 
use them as salads. Such things as the tops of 
nettles, the leaves of the wood sorrel, sweet cicely, 
and of the cuckooflower or ladies' smock, of scurvy 
grass, nasturtiums, and of salad rocket or wild 
cress, besides shoots of hops, of vines, and asparagus, 
are all used to a greater or lesser extent in the great 
salad-eating countries. In addition, the foliage of 
salsify, tansy, borage, and caraway, the shoots of 
sage, and the leaves of balm, and even the pods of 
young peas, are sometimes brought into use ; in fact, 
there almost seems no end to the supply of tender 
material which can be eaten dressed with salt, vinegar, 
and oil, as a good salad should be. 

The great art of preparing a salad from these lesser- 
known plants is to so judiciously mix them that the 
taste of one may not overpower the remainder. The 
more popular subjects, such as lettuce or endive, are 
used as a basis, and with the addition of a little of one 
or more of the other plants I have mentioned, an 
agreeable rnixture may be obtained to suit all palates. 
One special point, however, which is often overlooked 
in this country, is the fact that a salad should always 
be served freshly made. It is a common experience 
in Continental hotels or restaurants to see the waiter 

191 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

mixing the oil and vinegar and adding them to the 
salad immediately before placing it on the table. 
There are one or two points which are not seen to 
in this country. First, supposing the salad is to have 
lettuce for the foundation. The leaves should be torn, 
and not cut. If not very dirty they are simply wiped, 
but should it be necessary to wash them, they must be 
afterwards drained and tossed lightly on a soft cloth 
to get rid of every drop of water. In this country 
salading is often put to soak, thus making the leaves 
sodden, and being imperfectly dried, a good deal of 
the water goes into the salad bowl, which, according 
to the Continental idea, immediately spoils the mix- 
ture. Next the leaves are selected and put into the 
salad bowl whole, and not shredded up, as is usually 
done here. No steel knife should be allowed to touch 
them. They should then be turned about with a 
wooden fork whilst being sprinkled with good salad 
oil. Only sufficient oil should be added to moisten 
every leaf well. Vinegar must be added in very small 
quantities, the object being to give merely an appetis- 
ing flavour, and not to make an acid mixture. The 
thing to avoid is too much dressing ; if any liquid 
stands at the bottom of the bowl, it will cause the 
leaves to become sodden and discoloured. Any 
additional flavouring required can be obtained by 
adding to the lettuce small quantities of such things 
as finely chopped chives, tarragon, chervil, burnet, 
shallot, or almost any of the plants I have referred 
to, and a little salt and pepper to taste completes the 
salad. 

192 



SALAD PLANTS 

Purslane — Tarragon— Curled Chervil. — Known as 
a herb rather than a salad plant, but is useful for the 
latter purpose. 

Radishes — Winter Radishes — Tomatoes — Cucum- 
bers— Celery— Beet— Endive— Onions— Mustard and 
Cress — Watercress— Chicory (or Barbe de capucin) — 
Witloef— Blanched Dandelion — Pinnochio (or Florence 
Fennel) — Corn Salad or Mache — Rampion (rampions 
are eaten raw like radishes, or boiled and cut up into 
salads). 

SALAD DISHES. 

Canadian Potato Salad. — Slice some cold boiled 
potatoes, add a few almonds blanched and quartered, 
and a very small quantity of chopped onions. Pour 
over this any good salad dressing, and garnish with 
chopped parsley, beetroot, and slices of lemon. 

Celery and Nut Salad. — Take two heads of celery, 
salad dressing (two parts of oil and one of vinegar, 
salt and pepper), eighteen to twenty walnuts, one 
tablespoonful of cream, mayonnaise dressing, and 
paprika pepper. 

Trim and wash the celery clean, cut into two- 
inch slices, and shred finely, or if preferred, cut 
into dice. Put the cut celery into a bowl, and 
pour over enough salad dressing to season it well. 
Cover over, and let it stand for one or two hours. 
Shell and skin the walnuts ; cut them into shreds, or 
julienne strips. Now add the cream and mayonnaise 
dressing to the celery. Mix the walnuts with this, and 

193 N 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

dress neatly in a salad bowl. Sprinkle a little paprika 
over the surface, garnish to taste, and serve. 

Cheese Salad. — For a small luncheon dish, cheese 
salad can be quickly made by putting thinly sliced 
or grated cheese in the middle of a dish, surrounding 
it with lettuce, endive, or cress, and covering all with 
a good salad dressing. — Helpful Hints, by Mrs. C. W. 
Earle. 

Cherry and Banana Salad. — Take equal portions of 
bananas and double that quantity of strawberries. 
Mix a pint of strawberries when hulled with a tea- 
cupful of caster sugar, mash them well. Pick the 
cherries and stone them with a silver knife, slice 
the bananas, arrange them over the mashed straw- 
berries and sprinkle with sugar. Let all stand together 
for an hour on ice if convenient. 

Cherry and Strawberry Salad. — Stone half a pound 
of cherries and put them in a salad bowl with two 
ounces of caster sugar over them, put the same quantity 
of hulled strawberries over them, and another two 
ounces of sugar ; squeeze the juice of half a lemon 
over all. Stand on ice for an hour before serving. 

Cherry Salad. — Stone a quarter of a pound of 
cherries with a pointed silver knife, as steel would 
spoil their colour. Arrange crisp lettuce leaves, 
lightly turn with the fingers in a salad bowl, keeping 
the heart of the lettuce for the centre, where it will 
stand up with a cherry in the middle. Place the 
cherries at regular intervals among the leaves, add 
a few quarters of peeled tomatoes, pour over a good 
mayonnaise dressing, and serve at once. 

194 



SALAD PLANTS 

Cleopatra Salad. — Take any cooked vegetables. 
Lima beans, corn, peas, beetroot, being especially 
eligible ; have all the ingredients very cold. Cut 
into neat pieces, and dish on lettuce leaves, either 
the crimped or brown edge being decorative. Serve 
with a French dressing. 

Cleveland Salad. — Four cupfuls of boiling water, 
three lemons, one ounce of gelatine, four cucumbers, 
one quarter of a can of red peppers, salt to taste, and 
paprika as desired. 

Make a hot and sweet lemonade ; add a pinch of 
salt and paprika. Dissolve the gelatine in a cupful of 
water. When it is dissolved mix it with the lemonade. 
Slice the cucumbers very thin, and add the peppers. 
Put both in a large mould, and pour the lemon 
gelatine over all. Set in the refrigerator overnight. 
Serve with mayonnaise on a bed of lettuce. 

Clover-leaf Salad. — Cook one cupful of English 
walnut meat for ten minutes, with a sliced onion, 
three peppercorns, and a blade of mace, in slightly 
salted water. Drain and pour cold water through, 
then take off the thin skin. Cut enough celery into 
thin crossway slices to fill one cup, using the crisp 
white stalk. Mix the celery and nuts, and put a 
spoonful into the centre of three crisp lettuce leaves, 
put a spoonful of Mayonnaise on the top, and serve. 

Cold Potato Salad. — Cut four cold steamed 
potatoes into slices. Shred finely the tender parts 
of some celery. Chop very finely four sprigs of parsley 
and shallot ; mix, and place in the salad bowl. 
Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and serve with dressing, 

195 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Cranberry and Nut Salad. — Pick over and wash one 
pint of cranberries, and cook them with one cupful 
of sugar and one cupful of water till tender ; remove 
from the fire ; press the juice through the sieve ; soften 
one tablespoonful of leaf gelatine in one-fourth of 
a cupful of cold water, add the hot cranberry juice, 
and stir until the gelatine is dissolved. Pour a layer 
into a dish wet with cold water ; add a layer of diced 
celery and chopped nut meats as soon as the jelly 
becomes firm enough to hold them, repeat, having the 
last layer of jelly. When cold, cut in squares, and 
serve with mayonnaise, garnishingwith sprigs of parsley 
or with white celery tops. — Pictorial Review. 

Cucumber Salad. — One cucumber, half a table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, vinegar, salad 
oil, salt and pepper. 

Peel the cucumber finely, cut it into very thin 
slices, and place them in a salad bowl or dish. Mix 
two parts of salad oil with one part of vinegar, add 
the parsley, with salt and pepper to taste. Stir well, 
and pour over the cucumber. 

Egg Salad. — Boil six eggs for twelve minutes, put 
them in cold water at once to cool, then shell 
them and chop finely. Add two small boiled 
potatoes chopped equally fine, mix and sprinkle with 
Worcestershire sauce, toss them so that the sauce 
will get all through the mixture. Wash a head of 
lettuce, and arrange a few crisp leaves on separate 
plates. Divide the chopped mixture into six parts, 
and place them in the centre of separate plates. 
Make the French dressing by mixing six tablespoon- 

196 



SALAD PLANTS 

fuls of olive oil, three of vinegar, one saltspoonful 
of salt, and half a saltspoonful pepper, and serve 
with rye-bread sandwiches. 

Green apples, uncooked, cut into thin slices may 
be served with a leaf or two of lettuce, or as a sub- 
stitute for lettuce. They contain a large proportion 
of potash salts, and make a palatable salad. 

Endive Salad. — Endive, cress, shredded celery, 
boiled beetroot, and salad dressing. Separate the 
endive into tufts. Toss these in the salad dressing, 
pile them high in a salad bowl, and garnish with 
celery, cress, and beetroot. 

Everyman's Salad. — Thoroughly wash and pick 
over the tender leaves of young spinach, dandelion, 
sorrel, nasturtium, wild thyme, oxalis, shepherd's 
purse, &c., chop or shred ; mix in a bowl with a 
dressing made by whisking up a little olive oil with 
the fresh juice of oranges, lemons, limes, or grape 
fruit ; add a little chopped celery ; decorate with 
flowers of nasturtium. To give proteid value, add 
flaked walnuts, or ground hazelnuts, or home-made 
curd cheese. 

Florida Salad. — Cut slices from the stem ends of 
green peppers, and remove the seeds. Refill with 
grape-fruit, peeled and cut into cubes ; add the ten- 
derest stalks of celery cut into small pieces, and finely 
chopped nut meats, allowing twice as much grape- 
fruit as celery and one-third as many nut meats as 
grape-fruit. Arrange in nests of endive,, and serve 
with mayonnaise dressing. — Buffalo Commercial. 

French Salad. — (i) Put the tender leaves of lettuce 
197 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

into cold water and wash them carefully, wipe them 
dry, and stand them in a circle in a salad bowl. 
Sprinkle with half a teaspoonful of tarragon, the same 
of chervil, of parsley, and of chives, and pour the 
following sauce over them : 

Mix in a cup, a tablespoonful of pure olive oil, one 
very small teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of 
pepper, and stir well. Add two more tablespoonfuls 
of oil, and one of vinegar ; if liked, add two drops of 
onion juice. The salad must not be mixed until 
wanted ; it can be garnished with small radishes, or 
nasturtium flowers. 

(2) Take equal parts of lettuce, shred celery, water- 
cress, small salad, beetroot, and spring radishes. 
Thoroughly wash them for a few minutes, and when 
drained in a cloth gather up the four corners into the 
right hand, and shake out all the water. Next, put 
the salad in a bowl, season with equal proportions of 
oil and vinegar, two or three chopped green onions, 
pepper and salt ; mix and serve. 

(3) Cut two or three ripe tomatoes in slices, break 
in small pieces three heads of lettuce, and dish them 
up, in a circular row, in a salad bowl or dish ; fill the 
centre with either small Windsor beans, French beans, 
garbangas or Spanish peas, pickled button onions, 
large green peas, or haricot beans ; all or any of 
these, to suit the convenience and taste, should be 
gently mixed with some mayonnaise sauce. 

Frozen Salad (Tomatoes). — Cook tomatoes in just 
enough water to cover the bottom of a pan, then 
press the vegetables through a sieve ; add to the hot 

198 



SALAD PLANTS 

pulp a little extract of onion or grated onion, half a 
teaspoonful of minced parsley, a teaspoonful of butter 
and celery-salt, and paprika to taste ; cool, then 
freeze as for ice-cream. Add a cupful of whipped 
cream to the mixture, then continue freezing. Spoon 
into lettuce cups, turning a tablespoonful of French 
dressing over each service. On each dish place 
wafers, and a ball of cheese rolled in salted nuts. 

Fruit Salad. — Half a tin of pine-apple chunks, four 
oranges, four bananas, the rind of two lemons, 
the juice of one small one, some crystallised cherries, 
almonds, and desiccated cocoanut. Cut up all the 
fruit into small dice, add the rind and juice of the 
lemon and chopped almonds, and three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, or more ; allow this to stand for an 
hour or two, for the flavours to amalgamate. Before 
serving, sprinkle over it the cocoanut, and garnish 
with cherries, and discard the lemon peal. 

N.B. — Any sort of fruit that is in season may be 
used, but tinned pine-apple always improves this 
salad. — Dr. JOSIAH Oldfield, Fruitarian Diet 
Recipes. 

Green Salad. — Take two heads of lettuce, one 
pennyworth of cress, half a cucumber (finely sliced), 
one quarter of a Spanish onion (sliced), two hard- 
boiled eggs (chopped or sliced), vinegar, salt, pepper, 
sugar, salad dressing as recipe mentioned below. 
Wash, dry, and cut up lettuce and cress, add 
onion, and mix all thoroughly, then add seasoning ; 
pour a little dressing at the bottom of the dish, and 

pile the salad high up in the centre ; garnish with 

199 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the sliced egg and sliced cucumber, then pour the 
dressing over. 

Hot Potato Salad. — Cut boiled potatoes in very 
thin slices. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with 
potatoes, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle with 
finely chopped celery, then with finely chopped 
parsley. Mix four tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, 
and four tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Add a slice 
of lemon cut one-third of an inch thick. Bring to 
the boiling point, pour over the potatoes, cover, 
and let it stand in a moderate oven till thoroughly 
heated. If possible, serve in the same dish in 
which the salad is heated. 

Lettuce Salad. — Use only the tender leaves ; wash 
well in cold water, wipe them dry, then break with 
the fingers into small pieces. Take two or three 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs beaten up with one table- 
spoonful of pure olive oil, salt and pepper to taste. 
Two more tablespoonfuls of oil must be added 
gradually, and one of white wine vinegar. Mix well, 
and garnish the salad bowl with nasturtium flowers. 

Lettuce Salad (2). — Take the hearts of two lettuces, 
wash well, and dry in a cloth. Place in a salad bowl 
with two hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters ; salt and 
pepper to taste. Pour over two tablespoonfuls of oil 
and one of vinegar, mix well. The vinegar must 
never be put over the lettuce until it is wanted. 
It will spoil the salad if left standing, before it is 
used. 

Mexican Salad. — Chop finely the meat of one 
dozen English walnuts. Wash, and place lettuce 

200 



SALAD PLANTS 

leaves round the salad bowl, and over these in the 
bottom of the bowl arrange two peeled bananas cut 
into thin slices. Mix the chopped walnuts with 
mayonnaise dressing, and spread over the bananas 
with a few bits of the half leaves of lettuce^ Make 
another layer of bananas and dressing. Serve a 
spoonful of the salad on two nice leaves of lettuce ; 
put a dash of paprika over the whole. 

Mixed Salad. — Take one small cooked cauliflower, 
one cooked beetroot, one small cucumber, two or 
three firm cooked potatoes, two ripe tomatoes, one 
crisp lettuce, half a pint mayonnaise sauce or salad 
dressing. Divide the cauliflower into small sprays, 
cut the beetroot and potatoes into fine strips, slice the 
cucumber and tomatoes. Place all these ingredients 
in layers in a salad bowl, piling somewhat high in the 
centre, and season each layer with salt and pepper. 
Pour over the salad dressing, and garnish with a 
border of lettuce previously well washed and dried. 

Neufchatel Cheese Salad. — Line a bowl with lettuce, 
and if you like the flavour of onion rub each leaf with a 
cut onion ; put the cheese through a fruit-press or wire- 
strainer over the lettuce. When ready to serve, pour 
over one half cup of French dressing. If you have 
a few pieces of red beet, it is very attractive to gar- 
nish the edge of the dish with beets. This makes a 
very tasty salad. — Philadelphia, North American. 

Normandy Salad Stew gently in their own liquor 

a small can of French peas. Season with a little salt 
and pepper, and add a pinch of sugar. When the peas 
have absorbed all the liquor allow them to cool. Chop 

20I 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

half a pound of English walnuts, and mix with the 
peas. Pour over them half a cup of mayonnaise. 
Serve with lettuce. 

Orange and Lettuce Salad. — Two oranges peeled 
and freed from pith and pips and sliced in rounds to 
every three heads of well-washed lettuce (the latter 
should be torn, not cut into pieces of suitable size) ; 
allow half a small teaspoonful of finely minced shallot 
for every three" heads of lettuce, and add a dressing 
composed of two tablespoonfuls of salad oil to one of 
tarragon or chilli vinegar ; then add pepper and salt 
to taste, and serve. 

Russian Orange and Cucumber Salad. — Allow a 
thinly sliced orange to each large cucumber, slice 
the latter ; then mix, and use the dressing indicated 
in the foregoing recipe. 

Orange and Pear Salad. — Take six sweet oranges 
and six pears, peel the oranges, free them from pith, 
quarter them, take out the pips without wasting the 
juice, and reserve any juice which has escaped ; place 
them in a deep bowl ; peel the pears thinly, cut each 
pear into six lengthwise pieces, core them, add them 
to the oranges ; add the orange juice and a small 
sherry glassful of brandy, and leave in a cool place 
for an hour ; then pour over them the contents of 
a sixpenny jar of orange syrup ; cover the whole with 
whipped cream, but do not sweeten it ; sprinkle the 
top thickly with chopped blanched almonds and 
pistachio-nuts, and serve at once. When pears are 
not to hand, grapes, or very ripe apples make a good 
substitute, but pears undoubtedly give the best result. 

202 



SALAD PLANTS 

When not to be served immediately this salad should 
be placed upon ice, or, failing this, stand it in a bowl 
of cold water until it is required. 

Picnic Salad. — Another popular combination for 
salads consists of oranges and bananas, apples and 
celery, cut in slices and dressed. 

Pilgrim Salad. — Peel and cut tomatoes in half-inch 
slices, cut out rounds from the centre of each with 
a sharp-pointed knife, and insert four or five cooked 
asparagus tips. Lay them on crisp lettuce leaves. 
Cut the centres of the tomatoes into cubes, and put 
these with several stoned olives on one side of each 
plate. Put half a cupful of olive oil into a pitcher, 
the strained juice of half a lemon, the strained juice 
of half an orange, one teaspoonful of grated onion 
pulp, a quarter of a teaspoonful of paprika, one 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of mustard, and one teaspoonful of 
finely chopped parsley. Shake until thick and creamy, 
and pour over the portions of salad. 

Pine-apple and Grape-fruit Salad. — Mix a cupful of 
chopped pine-apple with a shredded grape-fruit, and 
half a cupful of nuts blanched and chopped, or celery. 
Add some preserved cherries, and serve on lettuce, 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

Plum Salad. — Pare and stone some small plums, 
and fill the cavity in each with chopped nuts ; arrange 
on a serving dish in circles of sliced bananas and 
on the top of each plum, and on each of the banana 
slices put a little whipped egg dressing. Serve im- 
mediately with a garnish of crisp cress. 

203 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Salad k la Monte Carlo. — Four ripe firm tomatoes, 
two truffles, half a pint of cooked asparagus points, 
six small artichoke bottoms cooked, two lettuces, 
mayonnaise dressing, krona pepper. Blanch and 
peel the tomatoes, and cut them into slices ; cut the 
truffles into thin slices, and the artichoke bottoms into 
shreds ; wash and trim the lettuces ; mix all in- 
gredients together in a basin, season with pepper and 
salt, and a very little vinegar and oil ; dress the whole 
in a pyramidal form on a deep dish, or in a shallow 
salad bowl ; garnish round the base with groups of 
asparagus points. Pour a little mayonnaise sauce 
seasoned with krona pepper over the whole, and 
serve a sauce-boat of this dressing with the salad. 

Salad k la Princesse. — Make with green vegetables 
such as peas, asparagus tops, French beans, capers, 
and gherkins. The vegetables are mixed and seasoned 
with salt, pepper, oil, tarragon vinegar and chopped 
chervil, and served with a border of apple jelly, or 
of hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. It can also 
be served in a salad bowl without any garnish. — 
C. Herman Seen, How to Cook Vegetables. 

Salad Dressing. — Put the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs into a basin, add one teaspoonful of caster 
sugar, one tea,spoonful of mustard, one quarter of a 
teaspoonful of salt and pepper ; mix well, and add 
(slowly stirring all the time) one quarter of a pint 
of cream and one tablespoonful of vinegar. 

Salads that Cost Nothing, made of dandelions, 
sorrel, and nettles. The latter are very pleasant to 
the taste, and if the young shoots are steamed or 

204 



SALAD PLANTS 

boiled, can hardly be distinguished from spinach, 
also they have valuable medicinal qualities. 

Then the young shoots of brambles form another 
constituent for a salad, as well as their fruit for jams 
and jellies, and with a small outlay of one penny and 
a little trouble you can grow a crop of nasturtiums. 
Not only will the flowers be useful for decorating 
your table, but you have an exe^ilent vegetable. 
Nasturtium leaves will add a piquancy to your 
summer salads, and in the autumn you can pick 
some of the seeds and make a tasty pickle with them. 
Put them in salt and water for twenty-four hours, 
dry them, place them in a bottle, boil a teaspoonful 
of peppercorns in half a pint of vinegar, strain, and 
when cold pour on to the seeds and seal the bottle. 
The rest of the seeds you can Jeave to ripen in order 
to provide yourself with next year's crop. 

A salad bag is a good thing to keep lettuce crisp 
and fresh. Remove the outer leaves, spread the inner 
leaves and wash carefully, and hang to drip dry in 
a square of cheese-cloth or white mosquito netting 
knotted together by its four corners. Suspend this 
from its own nail above a sink, or in the lower part 
of the refrigerator if preferred, though this adds little 
if anything to the crispness of the lettuce dried in 
a bag. 

Sheldon Salad. — One can of pine-apple, four oranges, 
two bananas, hajf a pound of Malaga grapes, and a 
quarter of a pound of candied cherries. Cut the pine- 
apples into small squares, seed the oranges, and cut 

them up finely, seed the grapes, and cut them and 

205 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

the cherries in halves ; slice the bananas very thin. 
Serve on lettuce leaves, and pour over the following 
sauce — the 'juice of the pineapple, one cup of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of cornflour, one cup of walnuts 
cut up finely, and a cup and a half of water. Mix 
the cornflour with a little of the water, and add 
the pineapple juice, sugar, and the remainder of the 
water. Boil until thick, and after it is cold add the 
nuts and glac6 cherries. This salad may be put 
together and frozen. 

Stuffed Prunes, with Lettuce. — Let choice prunes 
soak overnight in cold water. Steam until tender. 
Slit down one side, and remove the stone from each ; 
grate cheese ; add a little finely chopped red pepper 
or a dash of paprika, and enough mayonnaise dressing 
to mix the cheese to a soft smooth consistency. Fill 
the open space in the centre of each prune with the 
cheese mixture. Serve with toasted crackers and 
lettuce salad, over which French dressing has been 
poured. 

Tomato Salad. — Cut six good ripe tomatoes into 
rather thick slices, place them in a salad bowl with 
finely chopped parsley, and chervil sprinkled over 
them ; put two saltspoonfuls of salt into a tablespoon, 
cover well over with white pepper, pour in sufficient 
tarragon vinegar, to fill the spoon. Stir carefully with 
the fork until the salt and pepper are dissolved, and 
sprinkle carefully over the tomatoes ; then add two or 
three tablespoonfuls of the best salad oil. 

Welsh Onion Salad. — Peel and slice two large 
Welsh onions, and two cucumbers ; put them on ice 

206 



MISCELLANEOUS SAUCES 

for twenty minutes, then drain and dry them on a 
cloth. Arrange the slices of onion and cucumber 
alternately on a dish, pour some mayonnaise over 
them, and serve. 

Cucumbers should, if possible, always be kept on 
ice, and never be put into salted water. 

Winter Salad. — Cut up three boiled potatoes, one 
head of celery, one boiled beetroot, add a few leaves 
of blanched chicory and one spoonful of chopped 
parsley. Prepare the following sauce and pour over 
it, mix well before serving : — 

Take four tablespoonfuls of cream, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a little pepper, one teaspoonful 
of salt ; stir all these ingredients well, and pour over 
the salad. The vinegar must be added drop by drop, 
or it will curdle the cream. 



MISCELLANEOUS SAUCES. 

A Good White Sauce for serving over Vegetables. — 

Take one ounce of butter, two ounces of flour, a 
little pepper and salt, half a pint of milk, or milk mixed 
with water (not so good). 

Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the 
flour and the seasoning, then the liquid, stirring care- 
fully all the time, allow it to boil for three minutes 
to thoroughly cook the flour ; it should bubble with 
a thick sound, and break away from the side of the 
pan. When properly cooked this sauce will be as 
thick as rich cream, and will cling to- the spoon. 

Time, ten minutes. 

207 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

A little lemon juice may be added, if it is wanted 
to be slightly acid, or finely chopped parsley may be 
added, for serving with broad beans. 

Sauce Bechamel Maigre. — Put in a small saucepan 
one pint of water and three eschalots, a carrot cut 
in slices, a little grated nutmeg, four whole pepper- 
corns, bruised, a bunch of herbs, and a few mush- 
rooms. Let them simmer for an hour or more. Put 
through a sieve. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream and one of butter, 
add a pint of boiling milk, put into a casserole, and 
stir carefully, adding the stock, previously prepared, 
and stirring all the time. 

It may be kept hot in a bain-marie. 

Note. — If there be no bain-marie, put the preparation 
in a jam-pot inside a saucepan full of boiling water. 

Gaper Sauce. — Take a tablespoonful of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, one cup and a half of 
hot water, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and half a cupful of capers. Melt the butter, stir in 
the flour, and pour on the hot water gradually and 
season. Boil five minutes, and add the capers last 
of all. 

Celery Sauce. — Wash the white part only of a head 
of celery, cut it up into rather large pieces ; put it into 
a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover it, and 
simmer for thirty minutes, stir it occasionally, rub 
through a sieve ; add three-quarters of a pint of 
melted butter, with pepper and salt ; stir until it boils, 
and serve. Time, about an hour. 

208 



MISCELLANEOUS SAUCES 

Cold Horse-radish Sauce.— Grate (but not scrape) 
the horse-radish ; place it in a pickle bottle, with salt, 
pepper, and vinegar, and some thick cream, and a 
teaspoonful of sugar. 

Cranberry Cream. — One pint of cream, one pound 
of sugar, one pint of water. Pick one pound of cran- 
berries carefully, put them into a stewpan with the 
water and sugar, and cook slowly for about one hour 
until reduced nearly to a pulp. Stir from time to time 
during the process, and when sufficiently cooked turn 
into a dish to cool. Whip up the cream and mix with 
it, or heap on the top. 

Green Sauce for Summer. — Chop up a few fine 
leaves of purslane, parsley, chive tops, a good deal of 
tarragon and borage. Prepare a white sauce which 
has been passed through a fine sieve ; put the herbs in, 
and mix just before serving. It ought to look quite 
green when served. 

(Both are recipes from Mrs. C. W. Earle and Mrs. 
H. Bryan, Diet Difficulties^ 

Hammerfield Sauce {Lord Ronald Sutherland 
Gower's Recipe). — Melt one dessertspoonful of red- 
currant jelly in a basin, and add a tablespoon- 
ful of grated horse-radish, a little dry mustard, and 
the juice and the grated rind of one orange. Mix 
together thoroughly. If too hot, put less mustard. 

HoUandaise Sauce (Dutch Sauce). — Beat half a 
cupful of butter to a cream, and add gradually the 
well-beaten yolks of two eggs, the juice of half a 
lemon, and pepper and salt to season ; cook over 
boiling water until it begins to thicken, beating with 

209 o 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

an egg-beater. Add a cupful of hot water very care- 
fully. Serve as soon as it is of the proper consistency. 

Hot Horse-radish Sauce. — Peel a stick of horse- 
radish, grate (not scrape it), make a thickening of 
equal parts of butter and flour, one ounce. Moisten 
with stock sufficient to make a smooth sauce, not 
too thick. Directly it boils add two tablespoonfuls 
of grated horse-radish ; let it cook for three minutes. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. — Put the yolk of one egg (quite 
free from any white), half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
pinch of cayenne, into a bowl standing in ice. Stir 
constantly, and add one cupful of pure olive oil, drop 
by drop. The goodness of the sauce depends upon 
adding the oil slowly, and beating well with a wooden 
spoon. When it begins to get thick, alternate a few 
drops of vinegar with the oil till you have put in three 
and a half tablespoonfuls of vinegar (lemon juice may 
be used instead). In the summer it is a good plan to 
mix the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with the raw one ; 
the sauce is made more quickly and is less likely to 
curdle. A little tarragon vinegar may be used, but 
many people dislike it. The sauce when made should 
be as thick as rich cream. 

Omnibus Sauce. — Take a pint of good vegetable 
stock, add a small glass of white wine, a bay leaf, 
salt and pepper; the rind of a lemon cut very fine, 
and a very little of the juice ; let it simmer together 
for six minutes. This sauce is good for almost any 
kind of dish. 

Paprika Sauce. — Peel four onions and cut th«m up ; 
put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, add the 

2IO 



MISCELLANEOUS SAUCES 

onions, and stew .them until a bright golden colour. 
Rub them through a fine sieve, with half a pint of 
sour cream, a little salt, and half a teaspoonful of 
paprika (to be bought at any good London grocer's). 
Heat again. This sauce is good with any dish. 

Fiquante Sauce. — Take one pound of ripe tomatoes, 
pass them through a sieve, rub with a wooden spoon j 
add two ounces of butter, a small shallot, the juice of 
two lemons, one teaspoonful of sugar, one dessert- 
spoonful of Worcester sauce, salt, and cayenne. Add 
a tablespoonful of flour mixed to a smooth paste with 
a little water ; stir well over a gentle fire, and boil for 
ten minutes. Remove the shallot before serving. 

Poor Man's Sauce. — This sauce is made with five 
or six shallots, a little chopped parsley, some good 
vegetable stock, a small spoonful of vinegar, salt and 
pepper ; boil the whole till the shallots are cooked. 

Quick B^arnaise Sauce. — Beat the yolks of four 
eggs with four tablespoonfuls of oil, and four of 
water ; add a cupful of boiling water, and cook slowly 
until thick and smooth. Take from the fire, and add 
minced onions, capers, olives, pickles, and parsley, 
and a little tarragon vinegar. 

Thickening for Sauces. — When the thickening is 
made each time it is wanted a small piece of butter 
is melted in a stewpan, not boiled ; then add the same 
quantity of flour, stir over a slow fire until it is a 
golden colour (if it is intended for a white sauce, 
it is stirred for an instant, but is not allowed to take 
colour) ; if the yolks of eggs are used in white sauces 
they must never be thrown suddenly into hot sauce 

211 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

or gravy, but a little of the latter must be added by 
degrees to the basin containing the beaten yolks, 
whisking all the time ; then throw all back into the 
saucepan to get hot, still stirring, but the sauce must 
not boil after the eggs have been added. 

Tomato Sauce. — (i) Take one and a half tablespoon- 
f uls each of chopped celery, onion, and carrots. Cook 
in a quarter of a cup of butter till well browned, add a 
quarter of a cup of flour, and stir till well blended ; 
then pour on gradually, while stirring, one and a half 
cups of water, season with salt and pepper ; two or 
three cups of cut, stewed, and strained tomatoes, 
in which one-quarter of a teaspoonful of soda has 
been dissolved, add a sprig each of parsley and 
thyme ; cook for twenty minutes. Rub through a 
sieve. 

Tomato Sauce. — (2) Brown a tablespoonful of flour 
in butter, add a cupful of stewed tomatoes, and salt, 
pepper, grated onion, a very little powdered cloves, 
and mace to season; cook until smooth and thick, 
stirring constantly ; rub through a sieve, and serve. 

Tomato Sauce k L'EspagnoUes. — Take three chopped 
shallots, put them into a stewpan with a tablespoonful 
of finest oil, salt and pepper, ground ginger, ground 
nutmeg (very little of the two latter). Let the 
shallots take a good colour, without burning, add five 
or six tomatoes skinned, and all the pips squeezed 
out. Let them cook very gently until all moisture 
has disappeared ; they should take the consistency of 
jam. Naturally they will lose their bright colour, 
but the taste will be none the less excellent; they 

212 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

should not be strained, but sent to table in a sauce- 
boat. This sauce is equally good hot or cold. 

Note. — To skin tomatoes easily, place them for a 
few moments in the oven or on the stove, or plunge 
them into boiling water. 

Walnut Gravy. — Melt one ounce of butter in a pan, 
and add three tablespoonfuls of ground walnuts, one 
onion sliced, and fry a dark brown ; stir in slowly one 
tablespoonf ul of flour, then add one cup of hot water, 
a Httle gravy essence, pepper, and salt, and let it boil 
up ; take off, strain, and serve. 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS. 

A Good Vegetable Soup. — For a vegetable soup 
scrape and cut into dice a root of salsify, a turnip, 
and a carrot ; mince enough cabbage very finely to 
make a tablespoonful, slice very thin two parboiled 
potatoes ; cut two stalks of celery into small pieces ; 
rub a cupful of canned tomatoes through a sieve, 
slice one onion in thin slices ; measure out a half- 
cupful of canned green peas, and the same quantity 
of canned Lima beans ; chop fine, enough parsley 
to make two teaspoonfuls. Into a pot put the carrot, 
salsify, turnip, and cabbage, and cover with salted 
boiling water ; bring again to the boil, add the beans 
and the peas, and cook slowly for half an hour. 
Drain the vegetables and set to one side. In the 
bottom of the soup-pot fry the sliced onion in three 
tablespoonfuls of butter, and when the onion is a 
light-brown colour, stir all the other vegetables 

213 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and cover with a quart of cold water, or, if you have 
it, a quart of weak soup stock. Cover closely, and 
simmer for an hour steadily. At the end of an hour 
add the parsley and celery, pepper and salt to taste. 
Rub a large spoonful of butter into two tablespoonfuls 
of brown flour, and stir into the soup. Cook, stirring 
steadily, until smooth and thick, then serve. 

Almond Soup. — Three ounces of ground almonds, 
one pint of new milk, three ounces of milk powder, one 
tablespoonful of flour, one onion, a good stick of 
celery, one ounce of butter, pepper, salt, and mace. 

Place the milk in a pan, and when ready to boil, 
put in the milk powder, almonds, onion, and 
celery. Boil for one hour ; then take out the onion 
and celery, mix in flour and butter, add seasoning, 
then let all come to the boil again, and serve with 
toast. 

An Excellent Vegetable Soup {Mrs. C. W. Earle.) — 
Take two carrots, two onions, two turnips, a little 
spinach, lettuce, endive, and sorrel. Tie up a sprig of 
every sort of herb you have in the garden. Boil all 
in water. When the hard vegetables are cooked take 
out the sweet herbs, rub the whole through a fine 
sieve, make it not too thick by adding the water the 
vegetables were boiled in ; add a little butter, pepper 
and salt, and serve hot. 

Bouillon auz Herbes, for Invalids. — Take a good 

handful of chervil, add a lettuce and some sorrel. 

Chop up the whole, and boil it in a pint of water, add 

a piece of butter and a very little salt. 

Bouillon Maigre. — Put in a saucepan ten carrots 
214 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

and as many turnips and onions cut into squares, two 
lettuces, two heads of celery, a handful of chervil, half 
a cabbage and a parsnip cut into thin slices, add to 
the vegetables three ounces of butter and a pint of 
water, simmer slowly, stirring frequently until all the 
liquid is absorbed, then fill it up with water and add a 
quart of peas (green peas, if not in season dried peas) 
previously soaked, two cloves, salt and pepper. Let 
it boil for three or four hours, then pass it through a 
sieve. 

Brazil Nut Soup {Mrs^ C. W. Earle's " Third Pot- 
Pourri" Recipe). — One pound of ground nuts stewed 
for twelve hours in two quarts of water ; flavour with 
celery and a few fried onions, add one quart of boil- 
ing milk. Pass through a strainer, season, and serve 
with fried bread dice. 

Celery Soup {Mrs. C. W. Earle's Recipe). — One head 
of celery, three potatoes, one tablespoonful of butter, 
or nutter, two tablespoonfuls of cornflour, one quart of 
water, one pint of milk. Boil the celery and potatoes 
(cut into pieces) in the water till soft, then add the 
milk, butter, and seasoning. Stir thoroughly. Mix 
the cornflour in a little water, stir it in ; boil about 
twenty or thirty minutes, and serve. All soups should 
be eaten with bread or toast. Bread cut in slices and 
put in the oven to bake a pale brown is very good ; 
odd pieces may be used in this way, and served 
broken up on a dish. 

Cherry Soup. — Stem and wash one quart of morella 
cherries. Simmer slowly in a quart of water until 
tender. Rub through a sieve and return to the fire, 

215 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

sweeten with half a cupful of sugar. When boiled, 
thicken slightly with a tablespoonful of arrowroot 
rubbed to a paste with a little cold water. As soon 
as the soup looks perfectly clear take it off the fire, 
add one tablespoonful of lemon juice, and put aside 
to cool. Serve in sherbet glasses. 

Chestnut Soup. — Take one pound chestnuts, one 
or two onions, half a pint of vegetable stock, and one 
ounce of nut butter. 

Boil the chestnuts for fifteen minutes, and peel 
them. Put these with the onions (sliced) into a 
roomy stewpan with the butter, and fry briskly for 
five minutes. Now add the stock, with seasoning to 
taste, and bring to the boil, simmer gently until the 
onions and chestnuts are quite soft. Pass through 
a hair sieve, dilute with milk until it is of the con- 
sistency of a thin cream. Serve with croAtons. 

Chicory Soup. — Prepare the chicory as for a pur^e, 
bring a pint of vegetable stock up to boiling point, 
add the pur6e, and boil for about twenty minutes, 
then rub it through a sieve, heat it again, skim, and 
add some cream, a little salt, and a pinch of white 
sugar. 

Fruit Soup {A Danish Recipe). — One cupful of pearl 
tapioca, half a pound of prunes (stoned), half a pound 
of stoned raisins, three large apples, chop three slices 
of lemon, add sugar, cinnamon, and whole cloves to 
taste. 

Soak the tapioca until soft, mix all the other in- 
gredients with this, and boil slowly in water enough 
to make it, when cooked, of the consistency of a thick 

216 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

soup. This will require the addition of water from 
time to time. When the tapioca is thoroughly dis- 
solved and the fruit is cooked, add the desired amount 
of sugar, and half a pint of water. This soup may be 
eaten hot or cold ; if the latter, whipped cream is 
an agreeable addition in respect of both flavour and 
appearance. 

Gruyfere Cheese Soup. — To begin with, have ready 
your vegetable broth, half a pound of Gruyfere cheese, 
grate half of it and the other half cut in very thin 
slices. Put at the bottom of the saucepan a little 
butter, then a thin layer of the grated cheese, cover 
this with more very thin slices of bread. Over this 
again put the thin slices of cheese, then another layer 
of bread, then -again the grated cheese so that each 
layer is alternate bread and cheese, till you have used 
up the latter. The top layer should be of the slices 
of cheese, on which place some little pieces of butter, 
pour over a little of the broth and simmer until all 
is absorbed, then add the remainder of the broth 
very hot, and serve. This soup should be rather 
thick. 

Leek and Potato Soup. — Cut in little pieces eight 
good leeks, put them in water in a casserole with 
some salt, pepper, and some potatoes cut in pieces, 
let them boil till well cooked, and the potatoes can 
easily be mashed; add a good piece of butter, mix 
all well, and pour the whole on some small slices 
of bread placed in a tureen. 

Milk Soup {Another of Mrs. C. W. Earle's Recipes). — 
Cut one onion into small pieces, put into a saucepan 

217 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

with some butter, let it fry till it is chestnut colour, 
then add a pint of milk ; let it boil for some minutes, 
then pass it through a strainer, season, and serve. 
Fry well in butter small pieces of bread, and serve 
separately. 

Mock Turtle Soup. — Fry six good-sized onions in 
one ounce of butter till nicely browned, add two 
breakfast cups of German lentils, a good handful of 
spinach leaves, a few capers, about six chillis, and 
three pints of water. Let this simmer for two or three 
hours, then strain off. Return the soup to the pan 
and add two tablespoonfuls of small tapioca which 
has been soaked for an hour or two. Boil till per- 
fectly clear, half an hour to three-quarters. When 
ready for serving add salt to taste, and one teaspoonful 
of "Odin." Some small custard quenelles should be 
put in a tureen. These are made by beating one egg, 
adding two ounces of flour and half a pint of milk and 
a pinch of salt. Bake until firm, and cut into dice or 
circles. — Sidney Beards Guide Book, " Order of the 
Golden Age." 

Nettle Soup. — An excellent and nourishing soup can 
be made from young nettles by boiling them, putting 
them through a sieve, and adding a littlftc ' ited cheese 
and milk or cream and salt and pepp^rto taste. 

Onion and Potato Soup. — Slice two or three large 
onions. Fry them in a tablespoonful of butter, or 
nutter, until they are soft. Then add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and stir until it is absorbed in the 
onion juice. To this, add slowly a pint of boiling 
water, stirring all the time so that it will be smooth. 

218 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

Boil and mash three good-sized potatoes. Add to 
them slowly a quart of scalded milk, stirring well. 
Add the potato mixture to the onion mixture. Season 
with salt and pepper. Let it get very hot and strain 
into a hot tureen. Sprinkle parsley over the top and 
serve with croutons. 

Onion Soup Maigre {French Recipe). — Take a dozen 
middle-sized onions, cut in slices, cook them over the 
fire with a good piece of butter, keep turning them 
till they are cooked and well coloured, add a table- 
spoonful of flour, let it boil up, add some slices of 
bread and one pint or more of water, let it simmer a 
little, and serve. Some may prefer to strain off the 
onions. A cupful of milk and a little cream added 
last thing would soften the flavour. 

Onions with Rice. — Prepare your onions as above, 
add boiling water, pass your onions through a sieve, 
and then add some rice instead of the bread and let 
it boil for an hour or longer. 

Peanut Soup. — One leek, half a teaspoonful of salt 
and pepper, two teaspoonfuls of flour, cold water to 
make a smooth paste, two teaspoonfuls of peanut 
butter. Scald the water in a double boiler, and add 
the peanui -Her. Blend thoroughly, put seasoning 
with flour ana water, mix, and add to the leek and 
peanut mixture. Stir until well cooked, about two 
hours. 

Potage k la Or^cy. — Choose good red carrots and 

make a pur^e with a few turnips, a leek, and an onion, 

a little salt and ten peppercorns, moistened with broth, 

pass them through a sieve and stir on the fire without 

219 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

letting it boil. Skim and pour on to some bread 
fried in butter, which must be placed in the soup 
tureen. 

Potage k la pur^e de Marrons. — Take a quarter of 
a pound of blanched chestnuts, and place them in 
water hot enough to enable you to peel the second 
skin easily. When peeled, place them with a piece of 
crumb of bread dipped in broth in a mortar. Dilute 
this paste with some hot bouillon maigre and pound 
well. When done, pass the whole through a tin 
strainer and with care add as much broth as is 
necessary to make a smooth pur^e, then boil about 
thirty minutes, season well, and pour over crofltons 
fried in butter. 

Potage aux Herbes.— Take some chervil, white beet 
(poir6e), lettuce, purslane, and sorrel, in equal quan- 
tities, wash them, cut them into moderate-sized pieces, 
then dip them in butter. When well soaked, add the 
water and a little salt, and boil for twenty minutes, then 
thicken it with four yolks of eggs (it must not boil 
after) and pour it over minced bread in the soup 
tureen, some may like to add more chervil. If pre- 
ferred, the eggs can be omitted. 

Potage Panada {French Recipe). — Put in a casserole 
some slices of bread very thinly cut, with some water, 
some salt and pepper. Cook on a slow fire without 
stirring, till the bread is well soaked, then add a good 
piece of fresh butter, and mix the whole well, serve 
without replacing on the fire. You can add, if pre- 
ferred, two yolks of eggs, some cream or milk, at the 
same time as the butter. Some may dislike the crust 

220 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

of bread, but the potage panada is more wholesome 
made with the crusts than only with crumbs. 

Potage Printanier. — After having washed an equal 
quantity of white carrots, turnips, onions and leeks, 
cook them in good broth with white haricot, haricot 
verts, green peas, small beans, cucumber, lettuce, cos 
lettuce, the tips of asparagus, sorrel, and chervil. Add 
a very little sugar, let the whole be boiled down ; add 
a pur^e of peas liquefied with vegetable stock, season 
with salt and pepper. 

Potato Soup. — Cut two pounds of floury potatoes, 
put them in a saucepan with two ounces of butter, 
cook them for ten minutes, do not let them brown, 
then add a pint of milk and a quart of water, boil 
until the potatoes are soft enough to pass through 
a fine sieve, add a handful of sorrel cooked in butter. 
Boil up again, and add more milk if necessary. When 
finished boiling stir in a cupful of cream, serve with 
fried croAtons. A leek can be added if desired. 

Instead of the sorrel, green peas or blanched beans 
can be added to this soup ; if so, it is better to add the 
yolks of two eggs. 

Prune Soup. — For this soup, soak a pound of prunes 
in water over night, and add a pint of water in the 
morning, and let them gradually approach simmering 
point. Stir in a pinch of salt and cinnamon, three 
tablespoonfuls of fine sago, and let the whole gently 
simmer till the fruit is quite tender, and the sago 
clear, then add a wineglassful of claret, boil up, and 
serve immediately with small squares of toast. 

Pumpkin Soup. — Take half a pumpkin, peel off the 

221 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

skin and remove the pips, cut it in pieces the size 
of a nut, and put it in a saucepan on the fire with 
some water. When reduced to a pulp, about two 
hours is required, add a good lump of butter and 
a little salt, add also some vegetable broth. Have 
ready a pint, or a pint and a half of hot milk, adding 
to it some sugar, or a little salt if you prefer it, and 
mix it with the pur^e of the pumpkin. Put some 
bread-crumbs in the soufT tureen, and pour into it 
the mixture of pumpkin and milk, with a small tea- 
spoonful of orange-flower water. 

Sorrel and Potato Soup. — Cook in some butter a 
good handful of sorrel, then add some bread and 
mealy potatoes cut in pieces, add salt and pepper, 
also, if you like, some small pieces of bread and some 
vegetable broth. Cook slowly for an hour or more 
and season well. 

Sorrel Soup. — Wash and drain two bunches of 
sorrel. Chop it finely and cook with two ounces of 
butter until it becomes a pulp. Stir in one table- 
spoonful of flour, salt, and pepper to taste and one 
cupful of water. When it boils add two or more 
yolks of eggs and a cupful of cream. The soup must 
not be allowed to boil after the yolks of eggs are 
added. Serve with fried bread. 

Soup aux Choux. — Put some dried cabbage in a 
saucepan of boiling water, with an onion stuck with 
three cloves, turnips, leeks, carrots, celery, some peeled 
potatoes, salt and pepper. Half and half of milk and 
water would make this a good milk soup. Simmer 
slowly for four hours, skimming carefully. 

222 



MISCELLANEOUS SOUPS 

Soup with little White Onions.— Take a plate of 
small white onions, remove the outer skin, and put 
them in hot water for a few minutes, then saut6 them 
with butter and a little sugar in a casserole, and some 
fried crofitons of bread, and pour the onion stock over 
it (the onion soup previously mentioned). You may 
add when serving, some grated Gruy^re or Parmesan 
cheese which is served separately, or slices of Gruyere 
cheese on thin slices of toasted bread, browned in the 
oven, can be put in the soup. 

Tomato Soup {French Recipe). — ^Cut up a dozen 
good tomatoes (unpeeled), put them in a stewpan 
with a sliced Spanish onion and a tablespoonful 
of the best olive oil. Cook gently until well re- 
duced, pass through a wire sieve, add some good 
stock until of the proper consistency, return to the 
pan and reheat. At the moment of serving, flavour 
with lemon juice and cayenne pepper and salt. 

Turnip and Potatoes. — Fry brown two onions, add 
enough water, and an equal number of turnips and 
potatoes, and some small slices of bread. When all 
is cooked, pass it through a sieve, and add to it some 
good vegetable broth, and thicken with a little flour 
or arrowroot mixed smoothly; and last thing, add 
half a cup of cream and a little milk, but do not let 
the soup boil after that. The yolks of eggs may be 
substituted for the cream. 

Vegetable Clear Stock (One of Mrs. C. W. Earless 
Recipes). — Two onions, two carrots, two turnips, one 
bunch of sweet herbs, a few outer stalks of celery, 
peeling and leaves of any vegetable except potatoes 

223 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

and cabbage. Cut it all up fine, and put it into three 
quarts of cold water. Let it boil gently for from six 
to eight hours, skimming now and then ; it should 
boil down to one quart. Strain through a fine strainer. 
If the stock is too pale in colour (it should be the 
colour of pale sherry) a little burnt onion may be 
added. The stock-pot should be put on the fire every 
day, and any scraps of vegetables put in, but it must 
be cleared out, and the cooked vegetables thrown 
away every evening. Water, that vegetables (except 
the cabbage family) have been cooked in, may be used. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup. — ^Take six small marrows, 
or one large one, peel, and remove the seeds (if 
formed), cut into slices, and put into a saucepan with 
two ounces of butter and two onions finely chopped ; 
let it simmer for a few minutes at the side of the 
stove, but do not let it boil. Stir in one tablespoonful 
of flour to absorb the butter, add one pint of vegetable 
stock or water, four peppercorns, and three cloves, 
a small teaspoonful of salt, and a sprig of parsley. 
A few celery leaves are a great addition. Simmer 
slowly for two hours ; remove the celery leaves and 
parsley. Rub all through a sieve, return to the sauce- 
pan, add two tablespoonfuls of fine sago, and half 
a pint of milk. Simmer for twenty minutes, stirring 
frequently ; taste to see if more seasoning is needed. 
Stir in two tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve ; or two 
yolks of eggs may be put into the tureen and the 
soup poured on slowly, stirring all the time. 

It should be smooth and bland. A little cayenne 
may be approved. 

224 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

Green Marrow Soup. — Make as above, with the 
addition of one pound of spinach to the marrow ; or 
vegetable green colouring may be purchased and 
added to the soup just before serving. 

Or it may be coloured pink by cooking one peeled 
beetroot with the stock, removing the beet after the 
colour is extracted, and omitting the spinach. 

Vegetable Pot-au-Feu {Mrs. C. W. Earle's Recipes in 
"Helpful Hints"). — Cut up into small pieces as many 
vegetables as you have — carrots, celery, turnips, cauli- 
flowers, onions, or any other vegetables. Fry them 
in butter till browned. Put in a saucepan with water, 
add a handful of tapioca, and let it simmer gently all 
day. Skim occasionally, season, strain, and serve 
with sippets of toast. 

Vermicelli or Tagliatelle Soup with Sorrel. — Cook 
six sliced potatoes in three pints of stock, then 
rub them through a fine sieve. Cook an ounce 
of vermicelli or tagliatelle in hot water, drain it, 
wash and shred finely half a pound of sorrel, put 
it into the stewpan with two ounces of butter and fry 
for a few minutes, then add the soup to this, boil the 
whole up and stir in six eggs well beaten and a gill of 
cream, salt and pepper ; add the cooked vermicelli or 
tagliatelle just before serving. 

MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 

A Substitute for Cream. — Boil down a quart of 
milk nearly to a pint. Then mix smoothly a dessert- 
spoonful of the finest rice flour with a little milk; 

225 P 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

add by degrees a few spoonfuls of the hot milk 
to it. Put into a saucepan with one or two lumps 
of sugar ; continue boiling till the flour is completely 
cooked and thick enough, A small quantity of yolk 
of egg, or saffron, may be added to give it a colour ; 
stir until quite cold to prevent it skinning. This 
cream can be used for table, or put into tea or coffee, 
or substituted in dishes where cream is mentioned. 

Banana and Almond Custard. — Blanch and pound 
finely two ounces of almonds, with one teaspoonful 
of rosewater ; sweeten to taste. Cut up some bananas 
in thin round slices, beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix 
almonds, bananas, and eggs, with half a pint of cream. 
Put them in a saucepan over a slow fire, stirring one 
way until thick ; pour this mixture into buttered china 
moulds, bake in a slow oven. It would be better to 
place them in a tin of hot water to prevent them curd- 
ling ; cook about ten to twenty minutes. Decorate the 
moulds with two whites of eggs, whipped to a firm 
froth, and put in the oven for a minute to set them. 

Banana Flu£f. — Red bananas should be selected for 
this, as they have a richer flavour than those with 
yellow skins. 

Peel and cut them into dice ; squeeze over a little 
lemon juice, and cover with a small cupful of ginger 
syrup that has been drained from a jar of preserved 
ginger. Allow the fruit to remain covered for at least 
two hours, then mash to a paste with a wooden spoon ; 
gradually fold in, half a pint of cream beaten solid, 
two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar, and the stiffly 
whipped white of one egg. Serve immediately. 

226 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

Heap in wide-rimmed glasses that have been lined 
with macaroons. 

Fried Bananas. — Peel the bananas, slice length- 
ways, season with salt, dredge with flour and fry in 
oil or butter; or dip in egg and crumbs, or cut in 
two, crossways, dip in egg and seasoned crumbs. 
Put on ice for two hours and fry in deep fat. 
Sprinkle with lemon juice if desired. 

Banana Fritters. — Make a batter of two cupfuls of 
milk, three well-beaten eggs and enough flour sifted, 
with a teaspoonful of baking powder to make a stiff 
batter. Dip the peeled and quartered bananas in the 
batter, and fry brown in deep nutter. Drain and serve 
with any sauce preferred. 

Banana Omelette. — Peel four not over-ripe bananas, 
cut them into round slices, not too thin ; melt one 
ounce of butter in an omelette pan. When hot put 
in the bananas and toss them over the fire for a few 
minutes. Then sweeten with caster sugar. Break 
four fresh eggs into a basin and beat well ; add a 
tablespoonful of milk and a teaspoonful of sugar. 
Melt one ounce of butter in an omelette pan ; pour 
in the egg mixture, and stir over a quick fire until the 
eggs begin to set, then shape into an omelette. Put 
the prepared bananas into the centre, fill in the sides 
of the omelette and let it take colour, and turn out on 
to a hot dish. Dredge with sugar, glaze, and serve. 

Bean Relish. — Have ready a pint of cooked Lima 
beans. Mix together three or four tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of grated onion, half a teaspoonful of salt, 

227 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

half a teaspoonful of paprika. Mix, and toss the beans 
in it. Arrange on a serving-dish, outline with chopped 
pimento, and decorate with parsley. {Newark News.) 

Bread Souffle. — Soak two breakfastcupfuls of stale 
bread-crumbs in one pint of hot milk, add six ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese, and beat thoroughly with 
the back of a wooden spoon. Beat three eggs until 
light, and add seasoning to taste. Put one ounce of 
butter in the pan and cook half of the mixture at a 
time, as this quantity will make two omelettes. Cook 
more slowly than for a plain omelette. When it is set, 
it will be as light as a souftld ; fold over the edges and 
serve immediately, or it may be baked in a well- 
buttered pie dish. 

Buttermilk Bread. — Sift four cups of flour into a 
basin ; add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one small teaspoonful of bi- 
carbonate of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar 
(or one tablespoonful of baking powder instead of the 
two ingredients), one well beaten egg, and enough 
buttermilk to make a soft dough ; knead lightly, lay 
on a buttered tin, and bake in a hot oven thirty- 
five minutes. This is sufficient for one loaf. {San 
Francisco Call.) 

Buttermilk Cake. — Into one pound of flour rub 
five ounces of dripping (or half butter and half lard) ; 
add a pinch of salt, five ounces of moist sugar ; flavour 
with a teaspoonful of caraway seeds, three ounces of 
sultanas, or three ounces of currants, and a teaspoon- 
ful of mixed spice, as liked. Mix all the ingredients 

thoroughly. Take half a pint of- buttermilk into 

228 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

which a small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has 
been stirred, and mix into a light dough. Put into a 
buttered cake tin, and bake one hour in a moderate 
oven. Sour milk will do as well as buttermilk, or 
milk can be curdled by the addition of a teaspoonful 
of vinegar. 

Chestnut Souffle. — Boil one pound of chestnuts 
until they are quite soft, remove the skins and pass 
through a nut mill, moisten with a quart of milk 
and half an ounce of butter melted, add pepper and 
salt, and the yolks of three eggs, and lastly the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a greased sou£fl6 
dish and bake quickly. 

Cocoanut Curry with Kidney Beans. — Cook in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, two big peppers drained 
from a can, a cupful each of grated cocoanut and 
nut meats, and two cupfuls of strained tomatoes, for 
about three minutes. Then add a cupful of kidney 
beans that have been cooked until tender, and season 
with a teaspoonful of salt, and as much curry powder. 
Cook the mixture over hot water for about half an 
hour, and serve it in the centre of a border of hot 
boiled rice. 

Oahl and Rice {An Indian Breakfast Disk). — Soak 
a cup of Egyptian lentils for twelve hours in cold 
water, then add to them an equal quantity of rice 
previously washed, and boil all together till tender 
(about twenty-five minutes), shred an onion very 
fine, and fry it in butter, and mix this butter with 
the dahl and rice, adding a small spoonful of curry 
powder. Serve hot with the fried onions as garnish. 

229 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Date and Nut Sandwich. — ^Take one cup of dates, 
one cup of English walnut meat, half a cup of cream, 
and wheat bread. 

Wash the dates and remove the inside white lining. 
Chop them very finely, and add the walnut meat 
chopped very finely. Mix to a paste with the cream, 
and spread between thin slices of bread and butter 
(Franklin's entire wheat bread). Remove the crust, 
and cut into fancy shapes. 

Date Buns. — Roll light bread dough. Cut thin, 
spread it with soft butter and then chopped dates. 
Roll the bread up and cut it with a sharp knife into 
pieces half an inch thick ; lay them in a buttered tin. 
Allow it to rise until double its bulk, and bake in a 
hot oven. 

Date MufSns. — Two cups of pure white wheat flour, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one cup of milk, two eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, threfc^'quarters of a cup of dates 
(stoned and cut in smal ^"pieces). 

Sift together the flour, ^nljing-powder, and salt ; add 
the milk gradually, then fiie egg yolks beaten lightly, 
and the melted butter ; mix in the dates and add the 
egg whites beaten stiffly. ^'Beat well, and bake for 
twenty-five minutes in buttered gem pans. 

Egg Curry. — Make the mixture as for a vegetable 
curry (see p. 246), and put into it some hard-boiled eggs 
cut in slices or chopped, and serve with boiled rice. 

Galantine alia Bolognese. — Stew half a pint of rice 
previously soaked, and soak half a pint of bread-crumbs 
in cold water, fry six mushrooms and six small 

230 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

onions separately. Strain the. water from the bread- 
crumbs and put all through a sausage mill, add two 
well-beaten eggs, and pepper and salt. Put the 
mixture into a buttered paper, and shape it like a 
bolster, fastening the ends with white of egg, tie in 
a cloth and boil for one and a half hours. Take off 
the fire, and leave it in the water for half an hour, 
then take it out, and put it between two plates with 
a weight on the top. Before serving take off the 
paper and glaze with aspic jelly. This is a good cold 
luncheon dish and can be served with tender lettuce, 
and salad dressing. — Sidney Beards Guide Book, " Order 
of the Golden Age." 

Graham Nut Bread. — Two cups of Graham flour, 
one cup of white flour, one cup of milk, one cup of 
broken walnuts or peanuts, one scant cup of molasses, 
one teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Mix the dry 
ingredients together, then add the molasses and milk. 
Bake in a shallow pan, so t' at it can be cut in sHces 
about one and a half inchf in thickness. 

Green Pea Galantine.- ^'ass one pint of green peas 
(cooked) through a sieve, add one small onion grated, 
some chopped mint, a quarter of a pound pine kernel 
nutmeat (first passing through a mill), 2 ounces 
tapioca, which has been soaked overnight in cold 
water, pepper and salt, and a quarter of a pound 
of bread-crumbs. Mix well, and add one raw egg. 
Put into a greased mould or pie-dish, and bake in a 
slow oven three-quarters of an hour. Turn out when 
cold, and serve with salad. 

Home-made Macaroni. — Take one pound best white 
231 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

flour, put in a basin, and make a hole in the middle of 
the flour, in which put four whites of eggs and half a gill 
of cold water, and a pinch of salt. Beat the eggs with 
a fork, mix the flour gradually. When well mixed put 
the paste on a board and knead well, roll the paste into 
very thin sheets, place it on a clean cloth and dry. 
When rolling the paste for cutting (in long strips or 
any shape desired), sprinkle the sheets of paste with 
semolina, or better still with maize flour. 

Hominy and Cheese. — Cook the hominy as for a 
breakfast cereal, season with salt and pepper, and a 
tablespoonful of butter. Pour it when tender into 
a buttered shallow baking-dish. Spread thickly 
over the top stewed, seasoned tomatoes, and over 
these lay thinly sliced cheese. Bake until brown in 
a hot oven. 

How to Boil Rice. — Wash the rice in cold water, 
boil it until tender in abundance of salted boiling 
water for twenty minutes, pour the water off, fold a 
clean cloth eight times, and put it on to the top of the 
rice ; keep the saucepan sufficiently hot to draw the 
moisture up, without burning the rice. This method 
ought to make the rice dry and light. 

One teacupful of rice will swell to a good half pint, 
when cooked — in fact it more than doubles its bulk. 

Italian mixed Dish (Fried). — Cut one or two young 
green pumpkins into thin slices about as long as a 
finger, and half as wide, and lay them on a plate 
with a little salt. Mix three ounces of butter and 
three tablespoonfuls of flour in a saucepan and boil 
for two minutes. Add half a tumbler of cream, half 

232 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

a tumbler of good stock. Boil until it is a stiff 
Bechamel. Then moisten a small truffle or some 
mushrooms (with which one large yellow pumpkin 
and potatoes may be sliced), mix with the Bechamel 
and roll into small balls, dip in egg and grated bread- 
crumbs, and put aside until wanted. Take the 
skin of pumpkin, flour some young artichokes, pro- 
perly prepare and cut into squares (if not cut young 
and tender, they must be boiled first) some cauli- 
flower and bits of cardoon. Dip them in egg and 
toss them with flour. Fry all together in pure olive 
oil, season with a sprinkling of salt and serve very 
hot. 

Swiss Roll. — Four ounces of butter, four ounces of 
flour, two large eggs, a saltspoonful of baking powder, 
and three ounces of sugar. Beat the butter and sugar 
until light and creamy, then add the well-beaten eggs, 
and afterwards the sifted flour gradually, and the 
baking powder. Spread the batter on to a buttered 
tin and bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes ; turn 
carefully, trim the rough edges, and spread a little 
greengage or raspberry jam ; roll, and sprinkle with 
sugar. 

Lemon Swiss Roll. — Make a mixture as directed for 
Swiss roll, but add to the ingredients the finely grated 
rind of half a lemon. When baked, spread with a 
lemon filling, made as follows : one ounce of butter, 
ten lumps of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, two 
eggs. Rub off the yellow parts of the lemon rind 
with the lumps of sugar, crush them in a mortar. 
Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the sugar, and 

233 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

stir occasionally over a gentle heat until it is dissolved. 
Take it off the fire, and see that it is not boiling. Add 
very gradually to the beaten eggs, and stir over the 
stove until it is quite as thick as custard. When cool 
spread over the Swiss mixture and roll it carefully. 
{San Diego Union.) 

Macaroni Alia Napolitaua. — Put one pound of 
macaroni into a saucepan, half full of good broth and 
water. Boil fast for twenty minutes, then add two or 
more cups of broth, and a glass of sherry. Boil gently 
for twenty minutes ; stir occasionally to prevent its 
sticking to the pan. Allow the broth to evaporate 
before serving. Pour over some grated Parmesan 
cheese and tomato sauce. 

(2) Take as much macaroni or spagahetti as you 
require. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and 
cook for forty minutes. Strain, and serve with any 
good gravy you may have, and grated Parmesan cheese. 

Macedoine of Vegetables. — (i) Cook together a 
carrot and two turnips, cut into dice, strain ; mix with 
one can each, of peas and stringed beans. Reheat, 
mix with brown sauce, and serve hot. 

(2) Cook separately a carrot, a turnip, well chopped, 
and half a cupful each of peas and stringed beans ; 
add two tablespoonfuls of cooked butter beans, and 
a few pieces of cooked cauliflower. Reheat in 
Bechamel sauce, season with salt, pepper, and grated 
nutmeg. 

(3) Use six or eight different sorts of vegetables, 
and cook them separately in salted water. Drain, 
rinse in cold water, and reheat with white or 

234 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

Bechamel sauce. Carrots, turnips, stringed beans, 
green peas, cauliflower, asparagus, may all be used. 

(4) Mix together one cupful each of cooked cauli- 
flower and diced cooked carrots, and half a can of 
French beans. Reheat in Bdchamel or cream sauce. 
Season with salt, pepper, sugar, grated onion, a bit 
of bay leaf, or a heaped can of mixed vegetables, with 
a tablespoonful of good stock, a teaspoonful each of 
salt and sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, half a 
cupful water, and pepper to season. 

Margaret Plum Pudding {as used at the Lady 
Margaret Fruitarian Hospital) . — One pound of grated 
bread-crumbs, one pound of stoned raisins, one pound 
of sultanas, half a pound of candied peel, half a 
pound of sweet almonds, a few bitter almonds, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of pine 
kernels, a quarter of a pound of shelled Brazil nuts, 
half a pound of brown sugar, the grated rind of three 
lemons, six eggs. Finely cut up the peel and blanch 
all the nuts, except the pine kernels, pass through the 
nut mill ; the latter are to be simply chopped. Rub 
the butter into the bread-crumbs ; add the fruit, sugar, 
grated lemons, and lemon peel ; then the eggs, well 
beaten and mixed together. Put into a basin and boil 
in the usual way for six hours. The eggs may be re- 
placed by a cupful of milk, half a cup of syrup, and a 
teaspoon of baking powder. (Dr. Josiah Oldfield, 
Fruitarian Diet.) 

Minestra of Vegetables {Spanish Recipe). — Pre- 
pare and cut up coarsely the following : — Two carrots, 
two turnips, two leeks, two onions, four small pump- 

235 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

kins, half a tin of tomatoes, two sweet Spanish 
allspice, or a little cayenne pepper. Put ten table- 
spoonfuls of oil in a saucepan, add the onions and 
leeks, and let them simmer for ten minutes; add 
the other vegetables. Cut up and add a handful of 
Haricot Verts, and peel a handful of white Haricots, 
and the same amount of "petit pois." Mix the 
whole together ; cover with good white gravy or 
one pint of water, and cook for an hour oh a slow 
fire till the liquid is reduced ; season with salt, and 
serve hot. It is an improvement if two tablespoonfuls 
of rice or the same quantity of broken macaroni is 
added and cooked with the vegetables. This makes 
a very nourishing dish. 

Nettle Soup. — Take quite young nettles, well washed, 
and treat them like spinach. Boil them ; keep a 
little of the water in which they were boiled, and mix 
with it milk and a little cream. Season to taste, and 
thicken with a little corn-flour mixed smooth in cold 
water. 

Norwegian Bread. — One pint of barley meal, one 
half pint of Graham flour, one half pint of flour, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one pint of milk. Bake in a moderate oven 
for forty minutes or longer. 

Nut Bread. — Two cups of flour, one half teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one cup of 
finely chopped peanuts, one cup of milk, one half cup 
of sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful of butter. Sift the 
baking powder, flour and salt and sugar into, a bowl, 
add the peanuts, which have been put through a meat 

236 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

chopper. Beat the eggs, add the milk and stir into' 
the flour, and mix well. Put in an earthenware dish, 
or a flat cake tin that has been brushed with melted 
butter ; bake in a moderate oven thirty to thirty-five 
minutes. This is best when a day old, cut in thin 
slices. It makes very good sandwiches. [Philadelphia 
North American^ 

Nut Omelette. — One egg, a tablespoonful of milk, 
a dessertspoonful of grated or flaked pine kernels or 
walnuts; heat the egg, add milk and nuts; put a 
piece of nutter lard, or butter made with nuts, into 
the omelette pan (or frying pan), and when the fat 
boils, pour the mixture in, and keep shaking until set. 
Roll up with a fish slice, and serve on a hot dish 
immediately. — Nu-Era Recipes, George Savage and 
Sons. 

' Nut Sandwiches. — Beat a quarter of a pound of 
butter to a cream with the back of a wooden spoon ; 
add two ounces of caster sugar, three yolks of eggs, 
three ounces of blanched and grated nuts of any 
kind, and the well beaten whites of three eggs. Mix 
all thoroughly, and bake in a sandwich tin for twenty 
minutes. 

Oat Cream. — Heat a pint of milk until nearly boil- 
ing, sift into it half a pint of rolled oats, keeping it 
well stirred ; simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain. 
The oat cream should be sucked through straws. (J^r. 
Oldfields Recipe!) 

(Eufs ^ la Polignac. — Butter some cups well, next 
put in at the bottom of the cups a mince of finely- 
chopped herbs, add a finely-chopped shallot if liked. 

237 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Break one egg into each cup, add a little seasoning ; 
steam till set, but not too hard. Be very careful 
not to break the eggs when turning them out on 
fried croutons. Serve with savoury sauce round and 
under the crusts ; tomato sauce is veryf good for this. 

Orange Omelette. — Peel and slice in long strips 
three oranges, and dust a little sugar over them ; beat 
the yolks of three eggs, and stir into them two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, the same of orange juice, and the 
grated rind of two oranges ; add to this mixture the 
well-whipped whites of the eggs, and place quickly 
in a hot buttered omelette pan. When the omelette 
is set and commencing to brown, lay the slices of 
orange on the top, fold over, and serve at once with 
caster sugar sprinkled over. 

Pillau with Koftas (Indian Disk). — For the Pillau, 
a pound of rice boiled in three pints of water with 
two ounces of butter, one small onion, two heads 
of garlic, twelve cloves, and eight cardamom seeds, 
which give a spicy flavour ; the rice is boiled until 
soft. Mix with the koftas two cupfuls of chopped 
onion, a head of garlic, and half a teaspoonful 
of mixed spices. The mixture is then formed into 
cutlets, dipped in bread-crumbs, and fried a golden 
brown. Sliced onions fried a pale brown, fried sul- 
tanas, fried almonds, and hard-boiled eggs cut into 
rings, are used to garnish this dish. 

Potato Cake {French Recipe). — Put in a casserole 
a pound of mealy potatoes, peeled and cooked, add a 
little salt, some grated rind of lemon, a piece of fresh 
butter, a little cream, and three ounces of powdered 

238 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

sjigar, stirring continually, and beating the potatoes 
smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Let it 
cfeol, put in a little orange-flower water, the whole 
of eight eggs well-beaten to a froth ; mix all well, and 
form into a cake, cook it in a well buttered pie-dish in 
a baking oven. The time depends on the heat of the 
oven, from half to three-quarters of an hour. 

President's Brownies. — One cupful of sugar, half a 
cupful of butter beaten to a cream, two eggs well 
beaten, half a cupful of walnuts chopped, two squares 
of chocolate grated, half a cupful of flour. Mix the 
butter and sugar in a bowl, add the eggs ; sift in the 
flour, mixing carefully ; add the walnuts and choco- 
late. Bake in a shallow tin, garnishing the top with 
the walnuts. 

Prune Bread. — One heaped cupful of prunes, one 
quart of whole wheat flour, one pint of Graham flour 
(or self-raising flour), one teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one compressed yeast cake, or 
one ounce of yeast ; of lukewarm milk and lukewarm 
water, about half a pint. Wash the prunes, and soak 
them overnight in water to cover. In the morning 
stone and chop finely. Mix flour, salt and sugar 
together in a basin. Add the yeast cake dissolved 
in a little lukewarm water. Allow to sponge for 
ten minutes in a warm place, out of a draught. 
Pour in the milk and mix quickly ; knead for five 
minutes, and set it to rise for half an hour. Add 
the chopped prunes and make up into one large, « 
or two small loaves ; set them to rise again and 
bake in a moderate oven until done — one hour for a 

239 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

large loaf, thiee-quarters if made into small loaves — 
probably ; but this depends on the heat of the oven. 

Pumpkin Brown Bread. — ^Two cups of pumpkin 
juice, three cups of yellow cornmeal, three cups of 
ryemeal, half a cupful of molasses, one teaspoonful 
of salt, two cupfuls of milk, and one teaspoonful of 
baking soda. Mix these ingredients together, beat 
well, and turn into a buttered tin. Cover with 
buttered paper and steam for five hours. {San 
Francisco Call.) 

Furde of Vegetables. — Cook potatoes, carrots, 
onions, and turnips together in stock to cover ; 
season with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs. 
Press through a sieve, thicken with butter and flour. 
Cook together. Take from the fire, and add the 
yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little milk added. 

Radish Salad. — A good radish salad calls for three 
bunches of round red radishes. Put them in cold 
water in a refrigerator for an hour. Ten minutes 
before serving wipe them dry, and cut them in fine 
slices. Slice also two small onions. Put them in 
layers in a salad bowl with minced parsley, and dress 
them with oil and vinegar. {Chicago Journal.) 

Raspberry Omelette. — Beat the yolks of five eggs 
lightly with one teaspoonful of fine sugar ; put in two 
teaspoonfuls of corn-starch mixed with four table- 
spoonfuls of cream. Then add the whites of the 
eggs whipped stiffly. Cook in a frying-pan until set ; 
spread with raspberry jam. Finally sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and serve hot as a dessert. 

RavioUes Milauaises. — Make a good nouille paste 
240 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

with two ounces of flour and the yolks of four or 
five eggs and salt. Let it stand a little, and then 
roll out very thin. Chop up some mushrooms and 
fry slightly in butter ; thicken with spinach or brown 
sauce only. When cold put the mixture in little heaps 
on half of the rolled-out paste, wet the paste with a 
brush between the heaps ; double the paste over and 
press it to make it stick together ; then cut out with 
a pastry cutter, cutting along the lines between the 
heaps into squares. Cook these in boiling water and 
then leave them to drain ; add a good sauce — half 
brown, half tomato — and grated cheese. Serve. 

Red Pottage {Danish Recipe). — Well boil the fruit 
(red currants, raspberries, plums, or rhubarb), sweeten 
it, and add a little grated lemon rind. Pour through 
a colander to obtain the juice only. Put back the 
juice into the pan, and directly it boils stir in corn- 
flour previously dissolved in a little of the juice 
(one heaped dessertspoon of cornflour to half a pint 
of juice). Pour into a glass dish, lay on the top some 
blanched almonds cut into thin strips, and serve cold, 
with plenty of cream. 

Rice with Tomatoes. — Boil one cupful of rice in 
boiling salted water for twenty minutes, shake now 
and then, but do not stir it. Drain, and add a little 
milk, in which a beaten egg has been mixed, one tea- 
spoonful of butter, and a little pepper and salt. 
Simmer for five minutes, and if the rice has not 
absorbed all the milk, drain it again. Put the rice 
round a dish, smooth it into a wall, wash it over with 
the yolk of a beaten-up egg, and put it into the oven 

241 Q 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

till firm. Take half a bottle of tomato conserve, or 
the strained juice and pulp of seven tomatoes, season 
with a little salt and pepper, sugar, and half a chopped 
onion, stew for twenty minutes, then stir in one table- 
spoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of fine 
grated bread-crumbs. Stew for a few minutes to 
thicken, then pour the tomatoes into the dish in the 
middle of the rice, and serve very hot. 

Risotto alia Milanese. — Put a small chopped onion 
into a saucepan, with four ounces of butter, and a 
little pulp of white bread. Fry a light brown, remove 
the onions, and add two cupfuls of cooked rice. Stir 
for five minutes, add a glass of white wine, and by 
degrees a little broth, and a tea spoonful of saffron. 
Boil for forty minutes, adding broth from time to 
time. Before serving mix with it three ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Remove from the fire, stir 
well, and cover for a few minutes. Serve very hot. 

Savoury Eggs with Spinach. — Lay a thick layer of 
well-cooked spinach in the bottom of a shallow 
buttered dish, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
on this lay a sprinkling of grated cheese, and place 
upon the top a few small pieces of butter. On this 
put a thick layer of hard-boiled eggs cut in slices; 
the eggs may be pounded instead of sliced. Place 
on this a few pieces of butter, and sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, finish with a thick coating of grated 
cheese, and more butter. Bake till it is a crisp 
brown, about fifteen minutes. 

Strawberry and Tomato Salad.— Select about half 
a pound of medium ripe, freshly-gathered, firm straw- 

242 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

berries, not too ripe. Remove the stems, and cut each 
in four. Keep on ice till required. Steep in boiling 
water three or four medium-sized ripe tomatoes, for 
a few minutes, and skin them quickly. Cut each 
tomato into half, remove the seeds, and squeeze out 
carefully some of the pulp, then cut the tomatoes into 
fine strips, and season with a very little salt, paprika, 
and lemon juice. About five minutes before the salad 
is required mix the strawberries carefully with the 
tomatoes, put them neatly into the salad bowl, sprinkle 
over them a little freshly ground pepper, and pour 
over just enough mayonnaise to barely cover the fruit. 
Place a crisp lettuce heart in the centre, and garnish 
the base with thinly-cut slices of cucumber. 

Toasted Marshmallows. — One tablespoonful of 
granulated gelatine, one cup of boiling water, one 
cup of sugar, the whites of three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and some macaroons. Dissolve 
the gelatine in boiling water, add the sugar, and, 
as soon as dissolved, set the bowl containing the 
mixture in a pan of ice- water ; then add whites 
of eggs and vanilla, and beat until the mixture 
thickens. Turn into a shallow pan, first dipped in 
cold water, and let it stand until thoroughly chilled ; 
remove from the pan, and cut into pieces of the size 
and shape of marshmallows, then roll in macaroons 
which have been dried and rolled. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 

"Tout Ensemble" Salad.— Cream cheese, cherries 
(stoned), peanuts, currants, served on lettuce hearts 
with mayonnaise or French dressing. 

243 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Two Loaves of Bread. — Put three and a half pounds 
of flour (half a quartern) into an earthenware bowl, 
add half an ounce of salt ; mix well with the flour. 
Make a hole in the middle, and set it in a warm 
place (if it is cold weather). 

Take one ounce of yeast and one teaspoonful of 
sugar, and mix them in a small basin. If the yeast is 
good, it will soon become moist after the sugar is 
added. Put in two tablespoonfuls of flour, and mix 
to a smooth batter, with one quarter of a pint of 
warm water. Set it in a warm place, in front of the 
fire to rise ; it will take about five minutes. 

When risen, put it into the hole in the. flour, and 
pour in one pint of milk, warmed by the addition of 
half a pint of hot water — it must be only new-milk 
warm ; test it with your finger. If it is too hot, it will 
kill the ferment in the yeast. Stir with a knife or a 
wooden spoon. Then flour your hands and knead 
it for ten minutes till all the flour is absorbed, and 
the dough is smooth and elastic, and not sticky ; some 
people prefer to knead it on a board. Cut three slashes 
across, and set the bowl in front of the fire on a 
stool, out of any draught. Cover it with a cloth, 3"'^ 
let it rise till it has nearly doubled in bulk: Take 
the dough out of the bowl, scraping every bit off the 
sides, and cut it in half. Shape into loaves on the 
board, and put into greased loaf tins. The dough 
should half fill the tins, and touch the sides all rdund. 
Set them to rise in front of the fire for half an hour 
or three-quarters — the weather, and the temperature 
of the kitchen make such a difference, that there 

244 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

cannot be a fixed time, but. the dough should be 
nearly level with the top of the tins when they are 
ready for baking. 

The oven should be of moderate heat ; not so hot 
as for pastry, but by no means slack. If the loaves 
are small, they may be done in fifty minutes, but an 
hour is the usual time. Sometimes a little longer may 
be necessary, so much depends on the temperature 
of the oven and the size of the loaves. Only experi- 
ence can teach the learner. Tap the loaf all round, 
and if the sound is sharp and clear, the loaf is done ; 
but if it be dull and thick, put it back for a few 
minutes. 

If the bread smells sour, when baking, the oven is 
not hot enough ; it should have a sweet wholesome 
smell. 

When the loaves are out of the oven, they should 
remain in a warm airy kitchen for five or six hours, 
till they are quite cool, before being put into the 
bread pan. 

Unfermented Brown Bread. — One cupful of rye 
meal, two cupfuls of corn meal, one cupful of white 
fluar, half a teacupful of molasses, or sugar, and a 
teaspoonful of salt. Stir all these thoroughly together, 
and mix with about half a pint of sour milk ; in which 
a level teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been 
dissolved. Stir the batter as stiff as it can be worked 
with a spoon, and bake in a well-greased pan. Sweet 
milk and baking-powder may be used instead of 
buttermilk and soda. (Commoner.) 

Vegetable au Gratiu. — Cook separately in salted 
245 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

water, shredded cabbage, green peas, asparagus, etc. 
Drain, season to taste, and arrange in alternate layers 
in a buttered baking-dish, season each layer with bits 
of butter and grated cheese. Cover with buttered 
crumbs, and bake for about an hour. 

Vegetable Curry (i). — Mix one cupful each, of 
cooked carrots and turnips cut into dice, half a 
can of peas, one cupful of cooked Lima or kidney 
beans, reheat in brown sauce, season with minced 
onion, curry powder, a pinch of sugar and a little 
vinegar. Add a cupful and a half of cooked potatoes, 
cut into dice, simmer for twenty minutes and serve 
in a border of boiled rice. 

(2) Chop an onion finely, and peel and slice a sour 
apple. Cook for two minutes in butter, then add a 
pint each of carrot, turnips, celery cut finely, a heaped 
tablespoonful of curry powder, and a sauce made 
of two tablespoonfuls of flour, cooked in butter ; mix 
with a pint of milk, and cook until thick. Simmer 
for an hour and serve in a border of rice. 

Vegetable Galantine. — Slice finely two carrots, one 
small turnip, one medium-sized onion, and stew in 
just sufficient stock until tender. Then add half a 
pint of cooked green peas, two ounces of fine bread- 
crumbs, some pepper and salt, a pinch of cayenne, 
and a little ketchup or Gaffer sauce. Mix three ounces 
of semolina with a little milk, and when cooked 
add this, and mix well and press on to a dish in a 
shape, leaving a hole in the centre. Leave it to cool, 
then improve the shape, brush over with a glaze made 
from a teaspoonful of liquid aspic jelly, add two tea- 

246 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

spoonfuls of Gaffer sauce to darken it. Garnish with 
cold aspic, or the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, rubbed 
through a sieve, and the white chopped up with some 
parsley. Serve with lettuce and salad dressing. — 
Sidney Beards Guide Book, " Order of the Golden Age." 

Vegetable Hash. — Chop coarsely, cold cooked cab- 
bage, parsnips and potatoes, and fry in butter, then 
moisten with hot water, and cook covered for five 
or ten minutes. Add salt and pepper. 

Very Light Buns. — Take a quarter of a peck of the 
finest flour, rub lightly into it three-quarters of a 
pound of fresh butter till it is like grated bread, a 
little more than half a pound of sugar, half a nutmeg 
grated, a small quantity of ground ginger, three yolks 
of eggs, and the whites beaten separately. Add to the 
eggs half a pint of thick ale yeast, a little brandy, 
or red wine. Make a hole in the flour, pour in the 
yeast and eggs, and as much warm milk as will make 
it into a light dough. Set it before the fire to rise 
for half an hour. Grease some patty-pans, fill with 
the mixture ; brush over the top of each wig \nih 
beaten egg. Put them into a quick oven for about 
thirty minutes. 

Walnut Croquettes. — Take one pound of cold 
mashed potatoes, three-quarters of a pound of cold 
carrots, half a pound of cold mashed haricots, half a 
pound of ground walnuts, some chopped parsley, 
one egg, pepper and salt if liked. Mix potatoes, 
haricots, and carrots well ; add one or two table- 
spoonfuls of water or good vegetable stock. Then 
add ground nuts and parsley. Bind with egg, form 

247 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

into croquettes, and fry in nutter (the mixture holds 
together pretty well without the egg). This recipe is 
very good for using up any cold vegetables in order 
to make a savoury breakfast or dinner the following 
day. — Nu-Era Recipes. 

CHEESE DISHES. 

Cheese and Oatmeal. — Two cupfuls of oatmeal, one 
cupful of grated cheese, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one teaspoonful of salt, and pepper. Cook the 
oatmeal as usual ; shortly before serving stir in the 
butter, and add the cheese, and stir until the cheese is 
melted and thoroughly blended with the cereal. The 
cheese should be mild in flavour and soft in texture. 
The proportion of cheese used may be increased if 
a more pronounced flavour is desired. 

Cheese Balls. — One and a half cupfuls of grated 
cheese, one tablespoonful of flour, the whites of three 
eggs, salt, and pepper, and cracker dust. Beat the 
whites of the eggs and the other ingredients. Make 
into balls and roll in cracker dust. If the amount of 
flour is doubled the mixtui-e may be dropped from 
a spoon, and fried without being rolled in crumbs. 

Cheese Croquettes. — Three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
half a cupful of flour, two cupfuls of milk, the 
yolks of two eggs, one cupful of grated cheese, and 
salt and pepper. Make some white sauce, using the 
flour, butter and milk; add the unbeaten yolks, and 
stir until well mixed, then add the grated cheese. As 
soon as the cheese melts remove from the fire, fold 

248 



CHEESE DISHES 

in pieces of cheese, and add seasoning. Spread in 
a shallow pan and cool. Cut into squares or strips, 
cover with an egg and crumb mixture, and fry in 
deep butter. 

Gnocchi Alia Romana. — Mix in a saucepan five eggs 
with three tablespoonfuls of flour, the rind of a lemon 
and two ounces of Parmesan cheese ; and by degrees 
one pint of milk. Season with salt, and place the sauce- 
pan on the fire. Mix until the paste is cooked, then 
spread the paste on a dish which has been rubbed 
with butter. Let it cool, and then cut it into small 
squares. Boil them up in a French fireproof dish ; 
spread a little butter and grated Parmesan cheese 
between each layer. Place in the oven for ten 
minutes and serve in the same dish. — Mrs. Ross, 
Leaves from a Tuscan Kitchen. 

Another GnoccM. — Melt a quarter of a cupful of 
butter, add a quarter of a cupful each of flour and 
corn-starch, a pinch of salt, two cupfuls of boiling 
milk. Cook until smooth and thick. Take from the 
fire. Add the yolks of two eggs and half a cupful 
of grated cheese. Pour into a buttered shallow 
pan. Cool, cut in strips, roll in grated cheese, 
and brown in the oven. 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS WITHOUT EGGS. 

Apple Fruit Cake. — Take one cupful of sugar, 
half a cup of shortening, half a cup of raisins and 
dates, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon, a quarter tea- 

249 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

spoonful of cloves, half a nutmeg, one and three 
quarter cups of flour, one cup of apple sauce, with 
one tablespoonful of nutter. Stir in the sauce the last 
thing and bake. 

Another Cake. — Take one cupful of sugar, one cupful 
of milk, two cupfuls of flour, five tablespoonfuls of 
nutter or butter, one heaped teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; sift into the flour, and one tablespoonful of 
boiling water. Flavour to taste with sultanas, caraway 
seeds or currants, and bake about three-quarters of 
an hour. 

Baked Bananas. — Peel and quarter four bananas, 
and put into a buttered baking dish with eight table- 
spoonfuls of water, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, four 
teaspoonfuls each of melted butter and lemon juice, 
and a sprinkling of salt. Bake slowly for half an 
hour or less, basting frequently. The lemon juice 
may be omitted. 

Another Recipe. — Remove half the peel from each 
banana, cover and bake half an hour, open side up. 
Remove the rest of the skin and serve with melted 
butter, to which a little hot cream may be added, or 
serve in the skins, 

Escalloped Bananas. — Peel and slice the bananas, 
and put into a buttered baking-dish in layers. Season 
each layer with salt, pepper, butter, and a little 
nutmeg. Cover with buttered crumbs, moisten with 
cream and bake, covered for half an hour, then 
uncover and brown. 

Chestnut Cream Sandwiches. — Peel, boil, drain, and 
mash some large French chestnuts ; rub them through 

250 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS WITHOUT EGGS 

a sieve and mix thoroughly with sweet cream, and a 
touch of salt or sugar, as is liked, and spread the paste 
on thin slices of fresh white bread, freed from crust 
and cut in round disks; then cover with another 
round. Use a biscuit cutter for shaping after the 
slices are cut. 

Curd Cheese. — Take two pints of new milk, curdle 
it either by slow heat, or by rennet, lemon juice, fig 
juice, or bruised nettles. Turn the curd into a cheese 
cloth or butter muslin (coarse canvas will do) pre- 
viously scalded, tie loosely and hang up to drain. 
After three or four hours tie again tighter. In twelve 
hours it is fit to eat, but if preferred it can be pressed 
and turned every day till as firm as ordinary cheese. 
— Mrs. C. W. Earle's Recipe. 

Curried Corn {Green). — (i) Open a tin of green 
corn, and drain off the liquid, and stand aside. Fry 
two large onions cut in rings in a pan with two ounces 
of butter. When nicely browned, add a dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder and a pinch of salt. Fry, 
stirring all the time, for five minutes ; then sprinkle 
in a dessertspoonful of flour, and fry for another 
five minutes. Great care must be taken not to burn 
the contents of the pan ; add the corn, coarsely 
chopped, and the juice of a large lemon, and cook 
for ten minutes longer. Serve with boiled rice, 
heaped around the dish, or separately, as liked. 

Dood Park (Indian). — Rice, milk, sultanas, blanched 
almonds, cinnamon. Cook the rice in a saucepan 
with the milk to the consistency of thin porridge, add 
the sultanas (previously soaked for some hours) and 

251 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

almonds (chopped finely) and pieces of cinnamon ten 
minutes before serving. 

Doughnuts without Eggs.— Take one and a quarter 
cups of sugar, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful 
of bicarbonate of soda, two teaspoonfuls of melted 
butter, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ginger, nutmeg to 
taste, and flour to make as soft as can be handled. 
Don't make them too stiff ; fry in boiling nutter in a 
frying basket, and dip each one in a basin of boiling 
water which you can keep boiling on a stove con- 
veniently near. Prepare to dip it quickly just as soon 
as it is lifted from the hot nutter. It will not scale, 
and will keep moist much longer. 

Gnocchi of Semolina. — Bring half a pint of milk to 
the boil, sprinkle in two ounces of semolina (coarse) ; 
when it is off the boil add an egg and a little cheese 
(the egg may be omitted). Spread it on a dish to 
get cold. Then cut it into rounds with a cutter or 
a wine glass ; put the rounds into a fireproof dish 
with a little cream and some more grated cheese, and 
put a little butter on the top. Put in a hot oven for 
about five minutes, and serve immediately. 

Both recipes are from Mrs. C. W. Earle, Diet 
Difficulties and Helpful Hints. 

Good Plain Cake. — A cup of butter, a cup of molasses, 
a cup of brown sugar, a cup of sour milk, and a tea- 
spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, a teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, a teaspoonful each of nutmeg and cloves, 
half a pound each of raisins and currants, a quart flour, 
and half a teaspoonful of salt. Bake ih a slow oven. 

Green Com Savoury.— (2) Boil two ounces of 
252 



CAKES AND PUDDINGS WITHOUT EGGS 

macaroni in salted water. Chop coarsely the con- 
tents of a tin of green corn, and toss it in a pan 
with an ounce of butter ; care must be taken not to 
burn it ; flavour very highly with cayenne pepper 
and salt. Place a layer of cooked macaroni in a deep 
dish that may be taken to table, and lay some of the 
corn on it ; repeat the macaroni and corn. Make 
a good white sauce by frying an ounce of flour in 
the same quantity of butter, and pour over it a pint 
of milk with which two tablespoonfuls of cream have 
been mixed and salt and pepper. Stir in two ounces 
of grated cheese, and pour over the macaroni and 
corn in the dish. Grate a layer of brown bread-crumbs 
over the whole, finally stewing the whole with grated 
cheese. Bake in a good oven until a delicate brown. 
Serve very hot. The macaroni may be omitted if not 
liked, and a double quantity of corn used instead. In 
this case the white sauce should be made a little 
thicker. — i and 2, Garden City Health Food Stores 
Recipes, Letchworth. 

Ice Cream without Eggs. — Take one quart of new 
milk, set it in a kettle of hot water, and when it comes 
to the boiling point, add two large tablespoonfuls of 
arrow-root, smoothly mixed with cold milk, and two 
teacupfuls of caster sugar. Stir until smooth and thick. 
When cool add one pint of rich cream, and flavour 
to taste. Put in a freezer and churn rapidly. 

Light "Wigs." — Make into a dough one pound and 
a half of flour, with half a pint of milk made lukewarm, 
mixed with a quarter of a pint of good yeast ; cover 
it up, and let it stay by the fire for half an hour. 

253 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Then add half a pound of sugar, half a pound of 
butter ; work this into the dough. Grease some small 
patty-pans and half, fill them with the mixture. Use 
as little flour as possible in making up, and set to 
rise in front of the fire for half an hour. The 
oven must be hot ; the cakes will then rise very 
quickly to double their size. 

Nut Meat Mould {practically no cooking required). 
— Take a quarter of a pound of ground hazel kernels, 
a quarter of a pound of ground walnuts, half a pound 
of bread-crumbs, one ounce of onion, three-quarters of 
an ounce of nutter, and a quarter of a pint of tomato 
sauce. Melt the nut butter in a stewpan, add the 
onion and fry for five minutes (if fresh tomatoes 
are in season, chop up a small tomato and fry with 
the onion), then add tomato sauce to fried onion ; 
put in ground nuts and bread-crumbs, mix well ; turn 
into a mould, and leave till cold. Serve with salad. — 
Nu-Era Recipes. 

Plum Pudding without Eggs. — Take half a pound 
of raisins, half a pound of butter or nutter, half a pound 
of flour, two ounces of citron, or mixed peel finely 
chopped, two ounces of bread-crumbs, spice to taste j 
a teaspoonful of baking powder if liked. Mix with 
milk, and boil for six hours. 

Stuffed Pigs. — Remove the inside of steamed, or 
fresh figp, and mix the parts removed with chopped 
nuts moistened with a syrup of sugar and lemon juice, 
and stuff the figs with the mixture. 

The Simplest Nut Roast. — One pound of pine 
kernels (ground), two medium-sized tomatoes. Skin 

254 



COOL DRINKS 

the tomatoes, pouring boiling water over them, which 
makes it easy to peel them ; mash them, and thoroughly 
mix with the ground nuts. Put the mixture in a 
well-buttered pie dish, and bake in a rather hot oven 
until nicely browned. Turn out on to a hot dish, 
and serve with brown sauce or tomato sauce (a little 
sage or thyme may be included in the mixture). — 
Nu-Era Recipes. 

Vegfetables en Casserole. — Mix one half cupful each 
of cooked peas, carrots, button mushrooms, and 
very small white onions, with enough white sauce 
to moisten them. Line a buttered mould with boiled 
rice. Fill the centre with the vegetable mixture ; 
cover with rice, and place in a steamer over hot water 
until heated through. Turn out on to a dish; pour 
over white sauce to which has been added some 
grated cheese and a pimento cut in small pieces. 



COOL DRINKS. 

Recipes from " The Providence Journal" U.S.A. 

Currant Shrub. — Extract the juice from two quarts 
of well-ripened red currants. Add one cup of granu- 
lated sugar to each pint of juice. Beat the mixture 
well, then dilute the juice with twice as much crushed 
ice and water as there is of currant juice. .Grate a 
small amount of nutmeg into each glass. 

Egg Lemonade. — Beat one egg well, and add to it 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one of crushed ice, 
three of ice water, and sweeten to taste. Shake well, 

255 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

pour into glasses, fill with ice water, and sprinkle on 
the top nutmeg, or ground cinnamon. 

Ginger Spice Punch. — Stick about two dozen cloves 
into each of four oranges. Let them remain for two 
hours, then remove the cloves. Rub the yellow part 
of the rind from three lemons (after having washed 
them clean) with several lumps of sugar, then extract 
the juice from the fruit. Put the lumps of sugar into 
the juice, and add one tablespoonful of strained 
honey, half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 
half a grated nutmeg, a pinch of ground allspice, 
and one cupful of flaked pineapple. Keep on ice 
until ready to serve, then turn into a punch bowl, 
or glass pitcher, adding the juice from the spiced 
oranges, a pint of ice water, and a pint and a half 
of ginger ale. While it is still effervescing, serve 
in small punch cups with straws. 

Grape Punch. — Prepare one pint of strong lemon- 
ade, add two chopped oranges, four tablespoonfuls 
of cold tea, a bunch of fresh mint, and a quart of 
grape juice ; mix thoroughly and place in the ice 
box until cooled ; pour in, just previous to serving, 
a pint of finely chopped ice ; serve from a large cut- 
glass pitcher into wide-rimmed glasses, decorating 
with tiny clusters of fresh grapes that have been 
dipped into a boiled fondant frosting. 

Lime Sherbet. — Squeeze the juice from four limes, 
strain, and add a cupful of fruit vinegar, two cups 
of sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinnamon. Cover, 
and place on ice for two hours, then pour in gradu- 
ally a cupful of iced tea. Add two sliced oranges 

256 



COOL DRINKS 

and the stifHy whipped whites of two eggs. Prepare 
a lime syrup, by boiling two quarts of water with 
one pound of sugar for fifteen minutes, adding the 
juice and grated rind of four limes. Remove from 
the stove and add to the other ingredients, pouring 
slowly over a block of ice that has been placed in 
a crystal punch bowl, and add small fruits. 

Linseed Drink. — A delicious hot weather drink. 
It is best made in a double pan, for the beverage is 
one requiring long and slow cooking. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of whole linseed, and put 
it into the cooker, with a quart of boiling water. Set 
it on the stove, and let it come to the boil. Then 
let it cook in the double paii for two to three hours, 
strain, and add to the liquid a quarter of a cupful of 
lemon juice, half a cupful of sugar, and a little grated 
lemon rind. Serve very cold. If drunk while hot 
it is an excellent remedy for a cold. — A recipe from 
the Chicago Journal. 

Milk Flummery. — Break one egg into a large glass, 
beat well, add one tablespoonful of crushed ice, sugar 
to taste, and one-third of a pint of fresh milk. Whisk 
well (if you have no whisk, beat with a rotary egg- 
beater before putting in the ice), pour into small 
glasses, sprinkle with nutmeg, and serve. 

Nut Fudge. — Mix four cupfuls of brown sugar with 
three-fourths of a cup of rich milk, add two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and three ounces of unsweetened 
chocolate broken in small pieces. Set back on the 
stove until the chocolate is melted, then boil until 
it begins to thicken. 

257 R 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Take from the fire, beat until rather stiff, add two 
cupfuls of English walnut meat, or butternuts, and 
pour into a buttered shallow pan. When nearly cold 
mark into squares. 

A cupful of chopped figs may be substituted for 
nut meats if desired. ( Washington Herald.") 

Pineapple Prapp^. — Flake thoroughly with a silver 
fork a fine ripe pineapple. Sprinkle liberally with 
powdered sugar, and add one cucumber sliced very 
thin. Cut into small dice two limes or lemons and 
two large bananas, add half a pint of sweet cider; 
mix thoroughly and set in the refrigerator. When 
ready to serve, add the whites of two eggs stiffly 
beaten, and two quarts of Apollinaris water. Serve 
in glasses half-filled with shaved ice. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Put twelve quarts of juicy, 
ripe raspberries or Logan berries into a large stone 
jar, and pour over them enough pure cider vinegar 
(dilute if too strong) to barely cover the berries. 
Soak for thirty-six hours. Mash the berries a little, 
and strain off the liquid through a cheesecloth. To 
every pint of the liquid add a pound of loaf sugar, 
and boil for ten minutes. Then bottle and seal. 
Use two tablespoonfuls of the syrup to each glass 
of water, and put in two tablespoonfuls of crushed 
ice. This syrup can be used as the basis of a number 
of cooling drinks which the clever housewife may 
devise. 



258 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING IN SMALL 
GARDENS. 

By A. C. Curtis. 

Comparatively few realise the continuity and quan- 
tity of good green vegetables that can be raised 
from a small plot of garden ground, therefore it seems 
well that a few pages should be devoted to a simple 
description of successional cropping, which is the 
basis of success for the small garden. 

First the gardener must remember that if he pro- 
pose to take crops continuously out of the earth 
that earth must be continuously supplied with soluble 
plant food. Therefore heavy dressings of fat, well 
matured stable manure, must be dug in as often as 
possible, and lime must be applied freely every third 
year. 

Lime is best given, after the ground has been 
trenched, at the rate of as much as half a pound to 
the square yard. It may either be in the form of 
ground chalk, or, better, slaked lime. We prefer to 
buy quicklime in sacks, and to make heaps of it over 
the ground, about a bushel of lime to a heap. Earth 
is turned over these heaps, and they are left to slake 
for a fortnight. At the end of that time the heaps 
are scattered evenly over the bed, and it is all forked 
in. A fortnight later it will be quite safe to sow. 

Lime applied in this way destroys all sorts of insect 
and fungoid pests, including club. It acts chemically 

259 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

on the constituents of the soil, releasing valuable 
plant food in a soluble form, and itself, though very 
slowly soluble, is invaluable for many crops, especi- 
ally peas and beans. 

Deep digging at every possible opportunity is abso- 
lutely essential to success where heavy cropping is 
pursued. And in dry weather the steady use of the 
Dutch hoe where possible is invaluable both in keep- 
ing weeds down and in preserving a friable moisture 
holding top to the soil. 

In making his plans for the year's work the gardener 
will at first consider what vegetables are desired by 
his household, and in what probable quantities; he 
will not strive for unduly early, or late crops, especi- 
ally if he employ but one man a day or two a week, 
but he will try to have a useable amount of vegetables 
in hand, the year round, not wasting his ground 
either by excess or undue thrift of any one crop. 

Taking a small plot of ground of about one-tenth 
of an acre as our text, it will be the simplest way to 
describe one form of successional cropping which 
should freely supply a household of at least six people 
with vegetables the year through. But not with main 
crop potatoes, these are better and cheaper field- 
grown, and it is a waste of ground and labour to 
grow them. 

Plan I describes itself, and it will be seen to be 
divided into three main plots for successional cropping, 
each forty-one by twenty-two feet, and lettered A, B, 
and C. The cropping -of these plots should be so 
arranged that year by year the scheme for one plot 

260 

























1 — 














~ 
















^■^ 


TOOL SHED 






































































































































































































A 


































































































































































































































F-K 


AW 


ES 










































































































































































































































































































































B 




























































































































SEE 




















































































































FRu'lT 


doRDO 


NS 




























.,-1 






























P 


RIIlT 




nr 
































Rh 


UB 


AR 


3 


















SE 


AK 


AL 


r 


































































































































> 


SP 


AR 


^G 


JS 










































































rY- 
ER 




















• 
































































































































































































































































































































HO 


SSI 


RA 


JISIjl 






















C 




































































































































At 


TIC 


HO 


:es 





























































































































































Plan I.— A small Kitchen Garden of about ^ Acre 

{From " The Small Garden Useful") 

Scale. — The ground divided into 2-foot squares 
261 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

may be moved forward to the next, ensuring a dif- 
ferent class of subject being grown on the ground 
in successive seasons, resulting in the least exhaustion 
of the ground. Of course in a garden of this size 
this is rather a counsel of perfection, difficult to 
reach, yet where the rule has to be broken, deep 
digging, manure and lime, are used to minimise the 
evil. 
This succession may be expressed in a formula : 



First year 


. A 


B 


C 


Second year 


. C 


A 


B 


Third year . 


. B 


C 


A 



Supposing that our scheme of successional cropping 
has already been in operation, it must be remembered 
that the ground at the beginning of the year will be 
pretty fully occupied, ano xe shall point out the 
crops already in possession of the various plots as 
we discuss them month by onth. Taking then 
Plan I as the text, we will proceed to briefly dis- 
cuss the year's routine, beginning with New Year's 
day. 

January 

Plot A. — Contains kale, spring broccoli, and leeK. 
a six-foot breadth of ground where savoys and couve 
tronchuda stood must be cleared and trenched and 
heavily manured as early in the month as possible, as 
onions are to come here, a good dressing of lime and 
soot forked into the top spit will do good. Nothing 

262 









A 30 X 19 FEET 


> 

1 

X 


TOOL 
SHEO 

WITH 
GLASS 

ROOF 


HERBS 


SEED 
BED 


B 30 >t l-^ FEET 


FRAMES 


C 30 X 19 FEET 


8 RHUBARB 
10 SEAKALE 



Plan H. — Small Kitchen Garden of about ^ Acre 

(57 X 40 feet) 
263 



TABLE OF SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 
Each plot 22 X 41 feet. The rows of plants = 4l feet. 







g 


■a 




& 


•a 








■0 


S 


Followed 


■a g 


£ 


Followed 


Plot 


Crop 


si 




by 


si 


,S 


Next Season 








1 


Crop 


r 


1 


by 


A 


Onions . . 
(6 rows) 


2-3 


8-9 


Spring Cab- 
bage 


8-9 


4-7 


Runner 
Beans 




Parsnip 


3 


10-3 


(4 rows) 










(i row) 
















Salsify . . 


4 


10-3 








Early 




(i row) 












Potatoes 




Carrots 


4 


8-9 


Endive and 


8-9 


II 






(2 rows) 






Chicory 




1 1-2 






Beet • . . 


4 


8-9 












(2 rows) 
















Celery . . 


6 


10-3 












(2 double 
















rows) 
















Lettuce . 
















(between) 














B 


Broad Beans 
(2 double 


ia-3 


6-7 


Turnip . 


7 


8-9 


Onions 




rows) 






Couve 


7 


ii-i 






Dwarf Peas 


2-3 


6-7 


Tronchuda 










and 
















Spinach 
(between) 






Savoys 


7 


11-12 


Parsnip 














Salsify 




2 rows 






Broccoli . 


7 


3-4 


Carrots 




Kidney 


4 


7 








Beet 




Beans and 






Chicory . 


7-8 


11-2 






Lettuce 
















(i row) 






Late Spring 


7 


4-S 


Celery 




Dwarf Peas 


4 


7 


Broccoli 










and 
















Lettuce 






Endive 


8 


lO-II 






(2 rows) 
















Peas (2 rows) 


5 


7-8 


Leeks . . 


S 


10-3 






Leeks be- 
















tween 






Lettuce . 


8 


9 




C 


Runner 
Beans 
(i row) 


4 


7-10 








Broad Beans 




Early Pota- 


3 


6^ 


Cauliflower 


S 


9 






toes 






(i row) 










(7 rows) 






Broccoli . 
(i row) 

Brussels 
Sprouts 
(5 rows) 


s 
s 


9-10 
10-2 


Peas 



264 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

more can be done in this plot during the month, 
beyond blanching chicory which still stands in it. 

Plot B. — Contains Brussels sprouts ; if not already 
done during December, the ground from which 
runner beans and cauliflower and broccoli came 
last autumn, must now be trenched and manured, 
and a dressing of superphosphate of lime, two ounces 
to the square yard, should be forked into the top spit. 
If the weather be propitious two double rows of broad 
beans may be sown across this ground now. 

Plot 0. — Contains spring cabbage, parsnips, salsify, 
and celery, probably a row or two of chicory also, 
and may be conveniently left for a month or six weeks 
until all but the first are cleared away. 

Permanent Crops. — Seakale and rhubarb should 
have a few crowns of each covered up with fern or 
clean straw for blanching and to induce early growth. 

February 

Plot A. — If the onion bed was made last month, 
no further digging can be done here, but the onion 
ground must be prepared now, if the weather was 
impossible in January. 

Plot B. — This is a good month to plant broad beans 
if they are not already in, but if the weather is bad 
leave them till March, there is no sense in setting 
beans to rot in sodden soil. The Brussels sprouts 
must now go, and as they and the early potatoes have 
pretty well exhausted the ground, and have well paid 
for their manure, trench the ground well, and give 

265 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

a good dose of manure and lime also ; either as super- 
phosphate, two ounces to the yard, or as lime pure 
and simple if it has not been given for a couple of 
years. 

About the end of the month a sowing of dwarf peas 
may be made, if the weather be open. They should 
go thirty inches from the broad beans, and we know 
no better sort than the Little Marvel. Place eighteen 
inch wire netting along the row at the time of sowing, 
and run a row of spinach fifteen inches on the hither 
side of the peas. Continue to blanch chicory. 

Plot 0. — By the middle of the month the crops still 
in this ground must be cleared away. The few roots 
of salsify and parsnip left should be stored in sand in 
a dry place, and the celery laid in in the open, where 
the cook can easily get to it. Immediately this is done 
the ground must be trenched and heavily manured, as 
it is to bear two exhausting crops without any further 
help. In addition we like to fork kainit into the top 
spit, an ounce to every square yard, and find that if 
done in February, this does not interfere with the 
early growth of the potatoes, but helps them and the 
Brussels sprouts very mightily later on. 

Frames. — Make up the hot-bed about the middle of 
the month. 

Seed Bed. — Sow a little early lettuce, radishes, and 
if there be good conditions it may be worth while to 
sow early peas in the early border, besides spinach, 
at the beginning of the month. 

Permanent Crops. — Cover more seakale, and finish 
putting pots or boxes over the rhubarb. Tidy up the 

266 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

asparagus, and give a top dressing of five pounds kainit 
and fifteen pounds of superphosphate to a bed the 
size of that in the plan. 



March 

Plot A. — Plant or sow the onions in rows a foot 
apart as early in the month as possible. As the kale 
and early spring broccoli are used clear them quickly 
off the ground, and trench a six-foot breadth of ground 
next the onions, one and a half spits deep only, being 
most careful not to bring any old manure up to the 
top spit. At the bottom of the trench put a small 
dressing of manure and a dusting of kainit, and fork 
it in before returning the earth. Towards the end of 
the month sow one row of parsnips next the onions ; 
as parsnips are not in very great demand, this should 
be sufficient. Before sowing in this, and all, newly 
trenched ground, tread it well to consolidate it and 
make it firm, choosing a dry day for the purpose. 

Plot B. — Two rows of early peas may be sown this 
month, one row sown as soon as the next earlier 
peeps through. The rows should be of Little Marvel 
or some similar dwarf and early kind, placed thirty 
inches asunder, and spinach should be sown between 
the rows. 

If the broad beans are not in sow them at once. 

Plot 0. — Keep the ground hoed between the spring 

cabbage, and give them a slight sprinkle of nitrate of 

soda in showery weather.' 

Plant seven rows of early potatoes (such as May 
267 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Queen) about the 20th, the rows should be about 
thirty inches apart, the potatoes a foot in the row. 

Permanent Crops. — Earth up the rest of the seakale. 
Dig a slight dressing of old manure into the artichoke 
ground and replant. 

Frames. — Sow tomatoes, leeks, Brussels sprouts, 
Autumn Giant cauliflower, autumn broccoli, lettuce 
(both dwarf and main crop), cucumber, vegetable 
marrow, mustard and cress, and if there is a frame 
to spare, sow forcing carrot, radish, and a sprinkle of 
forcing lettuce. 

April 

Plot A. — Sow salsify, one row, and two rows each 
of beet and carrots ; more can be sown of the last two 
if desired ; these should all be a foot apart. 

Plot B. — Sow one row of kidney beans about the 
middle of the month, sow dwarf second early peas 
(such as dwarf Marrow-fat) as soon as the previous 
sowing shows up, prick out lettuce between the rows, 
about thirty of a sort at a time. 

Plot B. — Earth up the potatoes as they require it. 
Clear up the two middle rows of spring cabbage, 
and open out a trench in the way of a celery trench, 
fork in a handsome dressing of old manure and re- 
turn the earth to within five inches of the level of the 
ground, in preparation for the Scarlet Runner beans. 

Frames. — Sow celery early in the month. Sprouts, 
cauliflower, broccoli, and leeks should be pricked out 
into boxes and gradually hardened off. Plant out 
lettuce from the frames. Pot up tomatoes. Towards 

268 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

the end of the month plant a couple of cucumber 
plants out, one under each light of the frame. Repot 
vegetable marrows. 

Seed Bed. — Sow winter and spring brassicas about 
the 7th. Make successional sowings of lettuce and 
radishes. 

May 

Plot A. — Keep weeded ; thin the parsnips to six 
inches, the other roots to single plants. 

Plot B. — Sow the two last rows of peas (such 
varieties as "Ne plus ultra" or Continuity) five feet 
apart, about ten days between the sowings, plant 
leeks out, between these rows in a shallow trench, 
with some old manure forked in at the bottom. Plant 
out more lettuce. 

Plot 0. — Earth up the potatoes early in the month 
for the last time, and the same day put out one row 
each of cauliflower and autumn broccoli between the 
rows, and live rows of Brussels sprouts, the plants 
should be thirty inches apart. 

Frames. — Prick out and harden off celery. Repot 
tomatoes and vegetable marrows. The tomatoes 
should be now moved to the glass-roofed tool-shed, 
keep them near the glass, and put the strongest out 
in large pots or boxes to remain there. 

Seed Bed. — Prick out the winter and spring bras- 
sicas, just a few plants more than will be required. 
Sow radish and lettuce. 

Permanent Crops. — Thin out the seakale shoots. 

269 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 



June 

Plot A. — Finally thin carrots, salsify, and beet. The 
late Queen broccoli will now be done with, clear it off, 
and make two celery trenches eighteen inches wide 
at the top, and four feet apart, plant out double rows 
of celery in them and set lettuce between. 

Plot B. — Clear spinach and lettuce away as they are 
done with. 

Plot 0. — Set stakes to the runner beans. 

Frames. — Plant vegetable marrows out early in the 
month. Put the tomatoes out along fences or the 
edges of sunny paths about the 14th. 

Seed Bed. — Sow chicory, lettuce, radish, and a pinch 
of endive, 

July 

Plot A. — Keep weeded, water celery, and look out 
for celery fly. 

Plot B. — Clear off broad beans and early peas the 
moment they are done. Sow two rows of turnip, 
and put out couve tronchuda, savoy, kale, purple 
sprouting broccoli, early and late spring broccoli, as 
soon as room can be made for them. A row of 
chicory can either be sown or pricked out in this plot 
this month. 

Plot 0. — Dig the whole crop of potatoes without 
waiting for the haulm to die down, somewhere 
between the 10th and 20th, store the potatoes and 
tread the ground round the brassicas. 

270 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

Seed Bed. — Plant out lettuce and sow more. Sow 
endive and chicory, and about the 24th sow flower of 
spring cabbage. 

August 

Plot A. — Towards the end of the month the onions 
may be ready to harvest ; if so, get them up, also the 
carrots and beet, though the last may have to wait till 
September. Follow the onions with spring cabbage, 
and the carrots with chicory, planted out, and endive. 
The celery will probably be ready for a first slight 
earthing up. 

Plot B. — Clear the latest peas away, and immedi- 
ately follow them with endive, chicory, and lettuce 
from the seed bed. As soon as established give 
the lettuce a slight dressing of nitrate of soda, it 
makes all the difference to the quality of autumn 
lettuce ; the endive also will be improved by similar 
treatment. If desired a sowing of turnips may be 
made here at this time. 

Plot C. — Keep this plot and the rest of the ground 
clear of weeds ; use the Dutch hoe. 

Seed Bed. — Sow more spring cabbage, endive, and 
Tripoli onions. 

September 

Plot A. — Harvest onions, carrots, and beet, if not 
already done. Follow the onions with spring cab- 
bage, the roots with endive and chicory. Continue 
to earth up the celery, in many seasons the final 
earthing may be done by the end of this month. 

271 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Plot B. — Earth up the leeks with the hoe. 
Plot 0. — Keep this and the other plots well weeded. 
Frames. — Fill one frame with lettuce and endive. 
Seed Bed. — Prick out a few more dwarf lettuce and 
a few endive. Blanch endive, a few at a time. 



October 

Plot A. — Finish earthing up all celery. 
Plot B. — Keep weeded ; blanch endive. 
Plot 0. — Keep weeded. 
Frames. — Fill a second frame with endives. 



November 

Culture has now ceased for the growing crops, 
beyond keeping them weeded. Endive must be 
blanched, and the frames kept open as far as the 
weather will permit. Begin to blanch chicory, clean 
up rhubarb, seakale, and asparagus, and mulch the 
plants. 

December 

Plot B. — The turnips will be off the ground, so will 
the couve tronchuda and savoys before the end of the 
month, if possible trench the onion bed for next 
season. Clean up all weedy corners. Continue to 
blanch chicory and endive. 

This, or a slightly modified scheme, will be found 
to hold good for a smaller plot of ground, even in 
such a small plot as is sketched in Plan II the same 

272 



SUCCESSIONAL CROPPING 

methods will obtain. In this plan the asparagus has 
been sacrificed, so have artichokes, but the latter 
could be substituted for seakale, if desired. Beyond 
some cramping of the ground the plots will carry 
nearly as many, though shorter, rows as in the larger 
scheme. Possibly in Plot A the same number of 
rows could be grown by slightly contracting the space 
between the celery trenches, and by allowing only 
nine inches between the rows of root crops. This 
is perfectly sound practice if only care is taken to thin 
the plants so that those in adjacent rows do not come 
opposite each other, but opposite the centre of the 
intervals between their neighbours. 

In Plot B one row of peas would have to be 
sacrificed, and in Plot C one row of potatoes and 
one of Brussels sprouts must go, but there will be 
plenty of vegetables for a family of four, and prob- 
ably enough potatoes to last till Christmas. 

This scheme of successive cropping will be found 
to be sound roughly south of the Trent, but for 
northern and colder districts it would have to be 
modified. With some modification as to the time 
of sowing, Plots A and C would broadly stand as 
arranged, but Plot B would have its times of sowing 
much later, the peas would have to be at least three 
feet six inches apart, to make room for the winter and 
spring greens, which would have to go out between 
the rows before the peas were off the ground, and 
it is probable that all brassicas for winter and early 
spring would be better sown in a cold frame. 

But when all is said, this is only one of several 
273 s 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

possible schemes, and every gardener as he learns 
his subject will be able to adapt it to his special. soil, 
climate, and household needs. 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES. 

Extracts from a Lecture by W. F. Giles (of Messrs. 
Sutton & Sons, Reading). 

Although the English gardener could grow these 
vegetables as well as the French and German, many 
English cooks have probably never heard of some 
of these, for the simple reason that they are so 
seldom asked for, and therefore there is little oppor- 
tunity of learning about them. Of course the first 
question usually asked is, " Can such be grown in 
England ? " And we assure inquirers there is no 
difficulty at all in the cultivation. Many can be 
grown entirely in the open air, whilst those which 
require shelter do not need much heat. Vegetables 
now play a very important part in our everyday life, 
and during the past generation or two have been so 
much improved, that there is now a varied assortment 
at our disposal at all seasons of the year. It is some- 
what remarkable however, that, considering the large 
number of different types which are suitable for 
cultivation in countries with a temperate climate, only 
a small proportion are commonly grown in all, some 
of the remainder being perhaps largely grown in one 
country, and practically unknown in another. Even 

in the commoner kinds of vegetables different nations 

274 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

have their peculiar fancies. For instance, take 
potatoes. In this country we prefer white-fleshed 
sorts, which will cook floury, whilst in France yellow- 
fleshed kinds, which have a close, waxy texture, 
are more generally liked. Again, practically every 
Englishman prefers the delicious marrow-fat peas 
with wrinkled seeds, but on the Continent the small 
rounded sorts are still very largely grown for the 
"Petits Pois," although where the marrow-fats have 
been introduced they are much appreciated. In this 
country also scarlet runner beans are very much 
liked, but they are seldom, if ever, used in France, 
although acres of dwarf beans are grown, the small 
pods of which are served up whole. Then in cab- 
bages, whilst we most appreciate the tender, conical- 
headed kinds, in America the coarser Drumhead or 
flat-headed types are almost exclusively grown in 
some parts, and on the Continent it is rarely served 
up at all as a vegetable. The American specially 
enjoys sweet corn or maize, squashes, and wax-pod 
beans ; the German, kohl-rabi and celeriac ; the Italian, 
his finocchio or Florence fennel ; the Spaniard, his 
capsicums ; whilst in France large quantities of globe 
artichokes, aubergine or egg plant, chicory, salsify, and 
other varieties are used, which are, however, not 
generally popular in the other countries referred to. 
Even amongst what are usually looked upon as 
English vegetables there are many types which are 
almost unknown to the public in general, although of 
course they are familiar to the majority of gardeners. 
Such as yellow tomatoes, custard marrows, asparagus 

275 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

kale, white sprouting broccoli, couve tronchuda, mer- 
cury (Good King Henry), spinach-beet, are a few 
examples, and I shall hope to include some of them 
in my remarks. 

Aubergine or Egg Plant. — ^There are several types 
of fruit of the aubergine ; some are quite white, and of 
the shape of an egg, but they are mostly only used 
for decoration or garnishing. The round and long 
fruited dark purple are those used for culinary pur- 
poses, and they may be cooked in several ways ; the 
fruit may be stuffed with chopped meat, egg, mush- 
room, &c., and herbs, and baked. 

Bush Marrows (Tender and True). — Generally speak- 
ing the majority of marrows are of a trailing habit, 
but there are several which are known as " Bush " 
marrows, and these throw out no runners ait all. 
Where space is limited these Bush varieties are very 
useful, but naturally they will not keep up a supply 
like the trailing types, which produce fruit all along the 
vines. In some parts of Bedfordshire the long white 
and long green fruited Bush marrows are grown for 
market purposes, but the round fruited kind (Tender 
and True) are a newer introduction. This is a very 
prolific sort, producing several fruits at a joint, and if 
cut when young they make a very nice dish. 

Capsicum. — This plant is closely allied to the chilli, 
and is grown in much the same way as the egg plant. 
There are various types of capsicums and chillis ; the 
pods of some large kinds which are fleshy are used as 
vegetables in some countries, especially Spain and 
America. In the former country it is largely in 

276 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

demand, and although it was introduced into Naples 
by the Spaniards in the sixteenth century, its use in 
Italy has not spread very much farther. When the 
fruits are used as a vegetable they are picked green, 
and after the seeds have been taken out they are filled 
with a stuffing made of meat, herbs, bread and 
crumbs, and are then baked. They can also be 
partly boiled, and afterwards baked. The long 
narrow fruits which one often sees in pickles are 
forms of chilli, and sometimes the dried pods are 
ground for cayenne pepper. The real cayenne 
pepper, however, appears to be made from Capsicum 
baccatum or bird pepper. 

Celeriac is a form of celery in which the root has 
been developed instead of the leaf-stalk. It has been 
largely grown in Germany for a long time, and is 
there used both as salad and a cooked vegetable. 
It is grown in much the same way as celery, except 
it does not require to be put into trenches or 
earthed up. In the autumn the roots are ready 
for use ; and abroad it is often the practice during 
growth to break off the lower leaves, which is 
supposed to induce better growth and size in the 
roots. To cook them the roots are peeled and 
quartered, and boiled till tender, and served up in 
the same way as beetroot, or they may be sliced raw, 
and fried in butter till nearly brown. 

Chicory when blanched is largely used for salad, 
and is very wholesome ; it is also cooked as a vege- 
table, in a similar manner to seakale. 

Chow-Chow or Chinese Cabbage. — It has the ap- 
277 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

pearance of the Cos lettuce. This vegetable is in 
season in the autumn or early winter. It requires 
no heat. 

Climbing French Beans. — This type of plant grows 
almost or quite as late as the ordinary scarlet 
runner, but it has foliage like that of the dwarf 
French bean, and with the same kind of smooth pod. 
They can supply tender pods after the dwarf beans 
are over. There are several varieties of this class ; one 
called the Earliest of All can be gathered as early as 
July, but probably Tender and True is the most 
useful if only one is grown, as this bears so abun- 
dantly. The pods should be cooked in the same way 
as dwarf beans, 

Couve Tronchuda or Portugal Cabbage belongs to 
the Cabbage tribe, and is a plant in which the large 
midribs have been much developed. It is a delicious 
vegetable, quite easy to cultivate, and comes into use 
in the autumn and early winter ; this plant has been 
highly praised by those who have tried it. 

Drumhead Kale. — This is another type of kale not 
much known ; instead of producing leafage or shoots 
like most kales, this forms a head, and it has large 
midribs, which are delicious when boiled ; it 
partakes of the flavour of seakale. The cultivation 
is the same as for ordinary kales ; this variety comes 
into use late in the autumn. 

Finocchio or Florence Fennel is one of the favourite 
dishes of the Italians, and around Naples it is grown 
by the acre. Generally speaking, the plant has a 
slight resemblance to celery, and is used in much 

278 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

the same way ; the flavour, however, is sweeter than 
celery ; in fact it has a Uttle taste of aniseed about it. 
This finocchio differs from the fennel largely used for 
fish sauce, &c., and is eaten raw as a salad, or cooked 
and served in the same way as is usual with celery. 

Garden Swedes. — There are two forms, known as 
the white-fleshed garden swede and the yellow-fleshed 
garden swede, which are much superior for table 
purposes. They do not grow to so large a size as the 
field types, have no coarse neck at the top of the root, 
and the flavour is less strong. To those who like 
swedes I would strongly recommend these. They can 
be sown from April onwards, and should be grown in 
much the same way as turnips. 

Globe Artichokes are grown plentifully in Italy, and 
can, with care, be grown in England. As I have noted 
in the following chapters, they can be blanched in the 
same way as the cardoon, which is closely allied to 
the artichoke ; the stalks are blanched from October to 
March somewhat in the manner of celery, and when 
well cooked it makes an excellent dish. Abroad the 
cardoon is much in demand, and is served in a variety 
of ways. 

Eohl-rabi belongs to the Cabbage family, in which 
the stem has been induced to form a bulb. For many 
years large coarse types have been grown in this 
country for cattle food, but the tender and fine leaved 
forms have, until recent times, been little cultivated 
on this side of "the Channel. The bulbs should be 
used when they are about the size of an orange. 

Mercury or Good King Henry is very well known 
279 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

in some parts of England, especially in the Lincoln- 
shire district, where it is sometimes called Lincoln- 
shire asparagus. It is a perennial, and proves itself 
to be a very useful plant. 

Orache or Mountain Spinach is another plant which 
produces much leaf, and which is used in the same 
way as the ordinary spinach. There are white and 
red leaved varieties, and these reach a height of several 
feet. The plant is easily cultivated. 

Poir^e or Swiss Chard. — This would be in season 
from late summer until the early frosts cut it down, or 
the season may be extended by lifting the plants and 
storing them. 

Petits Pois. — The small - podded, round -seeded 
sorts such as Earliest Blue are those used, although 
there is no reason why the small seeds of almost any 
kind should not do equally well. The pods, however, 
of the fine English marrow-fats would have to be 
gathered very young indeed, or the seeds would 
be too large. There are several ways of preparing 
" Petits Pois " according to the flavour desired. {See 
Recipes.) 

I am sure when these vegetables are more known, 
they will be as much liked as those with which we are 
more familiar, and we are much indebted to Messrs. 
Sutton & Sons for not only the information about 
them, but the fact that the plants have been fully 
tested by them as amenable to cultivation in England, 
and that the seeds can be obtained from this firm. 

Salsify, or, as it is sometimes called, the vegetable 
oyster, is a plant producing a long fleshy taproot, 

280 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

which is entirely buried in the ground. Salsify is 
cooked in various ways. 

Scorzonera is a plant somewhat resembling salsify 
in character, but differs from it in the leaf and the 
colour of the skin, which is nearly or quite black. The 
cultivation and soil is the same for it as for salsify, 
and the roots should be cooked in the same way. 

Spinach-Beet, another member of the beet family, 
is known as the " perpetual " or spinach-beet. It is a 
very useful plant, and if sown in the spring and 
summer, much in the same way as beet, continues 
to send up young foliage all through the autumn and 
winter. The foliage is used exactly like spinach, and 
can be had when ordinary spinach is not procurable. 
It is not necessary to deeply dig the ground, as it is 
only the foliage which is used. Those who are fond 
of spinach would do well to grow this for winter and 
spring supplies. 

Stachys Tuberifera is a curious little vegetable, and 
has only been introduced into Europe from China or 
Japan during the past few years ; its common name is 
Chinese artichoke ; the tubers are used either boiled 
or fried, and they have a nutty flavour. 

Sugar Corn or Maize. — This plant, a form of maize, 

is very easy to grow in this country ; it makes a 

delicious dish, and I am surprised it is not more 

often used. Even when we have short, or poor, 

summers the earliest varieties seem to do -very well 

here, and reach the stage at which they should be 

cooked, although they would not often ripen their 

seeds here, but they will not stand frost at all. 

281 



THE KITCHEN GARDEN AND THE COOK 

Sugar Peas (Mangetout). — These are cultivated in 
precisely the same way as the ordinary type. They 
have no tough membrane inside, consequently they 
are what is usually termed " stringless," and as such 
are cooked whole. The pods of the best varieties are 
usually constricted, instead of being smooth and flat, 
and show the seeds through. The plants grow to 
various heights, but those attaining six feet or so give 
the best pods. The pods should be gathered when 
fairly young — that is before the seeds are much deve- 
loped — boiled whole, and served up with melted 
butter. 

Wax-pod Bean is another type of bean, known as 
Butter bean. The pods are usually yellow or whitish, 
and are tender, without strings, and if gathered fairly 
small and cooked whole are very nice. Should the 
pods be too large to cook whole, they should be 
broken across in two or three pieces — not slit with 
a knife. The culture is the same as for dwarf and 
runner beans. 

White Sprouting Broccoli. — Although the purple 
sprouting broccoli is known to all, the white sprout- 
ing is not so familiar. It is cultivated in the same 
way, and during March produces a large quantity of 
small and tender white sprouts. The plant is hardy 
in most seasons, and the young sprouts have a very 
agreeable, mild flavour. 

Winter Radish is a very useful plant. The ordi- 
nary kind of radish is of little use after it is full 
grown, but the class now referred to remains in 
condition for a long time. Probably the best type is 

282 



LITTLE KNOWN VEGETABLES 

that known as the Chinese rose colour. The seeds 
are sown about August, and although the roots will be 
ready by October, they can be left in the ground till 
wanted, or dug up and stored in sand. They grow 
larger than the ordinary radishes, and are entirely 
buried in the ground, and even when full grown 
remain solid and juicy. 

Witloef is largely grown around Brussels, and is 
preferred for cooking to chicory, although the smaller- 
leaved kinds do equally well for salading ; this can be 
had in season from October to the following spring. 
It is this plant which is often served in Paris 
restauraiits under the name of "endive," but it is of 
course different from endive as we know it. 



283 



HINTS ON VEGETABLE COOKING 
IN BAGS- 

The following vegetables can be cooked with ad- 
vantage in paper bags by those who like this mode 
of cooking : 

Jerusalem artichokes, broad beans, sprouts, carrots, 
cauliflower, celeriac, celery, cucumber, endive, chicory, 
French beans, seakale, mushrooms, parsnips, potatoes, 
tomatoes, vegetable marrow. 

These must in each case be washed, trimmed, and 
prepared in the same way as for ordinary cooking, 
duly seasoned and placed with a little water, and in 
some cases butter as well, in a grease-proof paper bag 
(sealed up), and put in a moderately-heated 6ven on 
an iron or wire grid, not a solid shelf, such as is usually 
found in coal-heated ovens. The heat thus reaches 
the contents of the bag from all sides and the top and 
bottom. From fifteen to thirty minutes should be 
allowed to cook any kind of vegetables ; some will 
take even less time, and some take more. When 
paper bags are not available, use pure white paper, 
brush over with oiled butter on one side and wrap 
the vegetables in the paper, buttered side inwards. 
Care must be taken to see that the ends of the paper 
are carefully sealed up ; for this reason, paper bags 
are more convenient, being easier to seal up. — C. 
Herman Senn, How to Cook Vegetables. 



Printed by Ballantvne, Hanson &* Co. 
at Paul's Work, Edinburgh 



GARDENING. 



WORKS BY A. C. CURTIS. 

Large post 8vo. 3s. 6cl. net each. 

With a Coloured Frontispiece, i6 Illustrations, and several Flans. 

The Small Garden Beautiful. 

Standard.— " No better little book could be desired by tbe amateur 
gardener, be he interested in vegetables or flowers." 

With 4 Illustrations and 2 Flans. 

The Small Garden Useful. 

FiBLD. — " There are scores of books which treat on the management of a 
kitchen garden, but we do not know of one that is more likely to prove a real 
help to the amateur who wants to know or to the professional who requires to 
be reminded than this ... a safe and sympathetic guide." 

With lo6 Illustrations. Large post 8vo. 6S> net. 

Common Weeds of the Farm and Garden. 

By Harold C. Long, B.Sc. (Edin.), and John Fercival, M.A., FX.S. 

Mark Lanb Express.—" A comprehensive book dealing with the 
damage done by weeds, their distribution, prevention, and eradication . . . 
the book possesses great interest for all connected with the land in any 
capacity." 

3rd Edition. Small demy 8vo. 3s> 6ci. net. 

Hardy Ornamental Flowering Trees and Shrubs. 

By A. D. Webster, 

Author of " Practical Forestry," " Hardy Coniferous Trees,'' &c. 

Journal of Horticulture. — "We commend the book on its 
undoubted merits as a reference work and guide." 



Crown 8vo. 6s. net. 

The Book of Flowers. 

By Katharine Tynan and Frances Maitlahd. 

• • An attractive gift-book for all who love Sowers and flower-lore. The 
flower names — old and .new— are grouped under ^the four seasons, and with 
each are given descriptions of the flowers and their supposed properties, and 
the legends connected with them, illustrated from poets and prose writers. 



London: SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



COUNTRY LIFE. 



By RICHARD JEFFERIES. 

The Gamekeeper at Home ; Or, sketches of Natural History 

and Rural Life. 
With Illustrations. Crown Sto. 8s. 6d. Also Pocket Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 1s.net. 

Round about a Great Estate, ciown svo. s*. 

Wild Life in a Southern County. crown svo. es. 

The Amateur Poacher. crown svo. as. en. 

Edited by J. A. OWEN. 

Woodland, Moor and Stream : Being the Notes of a Naturalist. 

3rd Edition. Crown Svo. 6s. Also Pocket Edition. Fcp. Svo. la. 

Forest Tithes ; and other Studies from Nature. Crown Svo. 6s. 

All the Year with Nature, b, p. anderson graham. 

Crown Sva 58. 
A Year in the Fields. Selections from the Writings of 

With Illustrations. Crown Svo. 6s. JOHN BU RROUGHS. 

By Mrs. C. W. EARLE. Small demy Svo. 78. 6d. each. 

Pot-Pourri from a Surrey Garden. 

With an Appendix by Lady CONSTANCE LYTTON. 39th Edition. 

More Pot-Pourri from a Surrey Garden. i*p,e„ion. 
A Third Pot-Pourri, >nd Edition. 

Letters to Young and Old. smaii demy svo. 7s. en. net. 
Memoirs and Memories . with 4 Tottnitt. 

Large demy Svo. 10s. Gd. net. 

By JOHN HALSHAM. CrownSvo. 68.net each. 
LoneWOOd Corner : a countryman's Horizons. 
IdlehurSt ', a journal kept in the Country, and. Edition, 

By HORACE G. HUTCHINSON. 
Nature's Moods and Tenses. with 32 luustrauons. 

Small demy Svo. 7a. 6d. net, 
AcADBHT. — "A charming fireside companion. Nature lovers will find every 
phase of country life touched upon." 

When Life was New. Large post svo. 6s. net 

«^« These studies and sketches are vividly reminiscent of the author's own 
boyhoodi and his outdoor lifei when he laid the foundation of his intimate 
■cquaintance with nature. 



London : SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



The Waterloo Library. 



Crown 8vo. 3s. Bd. each Volume. 

The Brass Bottle. 

By F. Anstby. With a Frontispiece. 

The Major's Niece. 

By Gbokgb a. Birmingham. 

Notes and Jottings from Animal Life. 

By Fkank Bdckland. 

The Cruise ot the "Cachalot." 

By Frank T. Bollbn. With 8 Full-page lUustratiom and 
a Chart. 

The Log of a Sea- Waif. 

By Frank T. Bullbn. With 8 Full-page Illustrations. 

Peter's Mother. 



By Mrs. Hbnry db 
Pasthrb 
(Lady Clifford). 



Deborah of Tod's. 
Adam Grigson. 
Jess. 

By H. RiDBR Haggard. With 12 Full-page Illustrations. 

Brazenhead the Great. 

By Mauricb Hbwlstt. 

The Gamekeeper at Home. 

By Richard Jeffbkibs. With numerous niustrations. 

The Amateur Poacher. 

By Richard Jeffbries. 

The Four Feathers. 

By A. E. W. Mason. 

The Broken Road. 

By A. E. W. Mason. 

The Voyage of the " Discovery." 

By Captain Robert F. Scott, C.V.O., R.N. 2 Volumes, with 
Illustrations. 

Early Victorian : a Village Chronicle. 

By S. G. Tallbntyre. 

*^* Other Volumes to follow. 

London: SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



At all Booksellers and Bookstalls. 

Smith, Elder & Co.'s 
New Is. Net Series. 

1. Deeds that Won the Empire. 

Dr. W. H. Fitchett 

2. The Cruise of the "Cachalot" Round the 

World after Sperm Whales. Frank t. BuUen. 

3. Fights for the Flag. Dr. W. H. Fitchett 

4. The Log of a Sea Waif. Frank T. Bullen. 

5. The Gamekeeper at Home. Richard jeffenei. 

6. A Londoner's Log Book. 

Rt. Hon. G. W. E. Russell. 

7. The Sowers. H. S. Merriman. 

8. Jess. H. Rider Haggard. 

9. Vice Versft. F. Anstey. 

10. Woodland, Moor, and Stream. j. a. Owen. 

11. The Tale of the Great Mutiny. 

Dr. W. H. Fitchett 

12. Sixty Years in the Wilderness. Sir Henry w. Lucy. 

13. A Vision of India. Sidney Uw. 

14. The Defence of Plevna. Capt. f. w. von Herbert 

With an Intraduction hj General Sir Jomh Fxbnch, k.c.h.g., K.C.I., etc. 

15. The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes. 

A. Conan Doyle. 

16. Nelson and His Captains. Dr. w. H. Fitchett 

1 7. With Edged Tools. Henry Seton Merriman. 

18. The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes. 

A. Conan Doyle. 

19. The Exploits of Brigadier Gerard. 

A. Conan Doyle. 

20. Wellington's Men. Dr. w. a. Fitchett. 

London : SMITH, ELDER 4 CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



