


NEW YORK,U. S. A. 






I N all baking and cooking receipts calling 
for baking powder use “ Royal.” Better 
and finer food will be the result, and you 
will safeguard it against alum. 

In receipts calling for one teaspoonful of 
soda and two of cream of tartar, use two 
spoonfuls of Royal, and leave the cream of 
tartar and soda out. You get the better food 
and save rr 11 J “^ss work. 

Look c University of Illinois powders. Do 
not permi Library at to your house 

under any Urbana-Champaign P y add an in- 
Bookstacks 

jurious subs UUJVW y uui ivru d, destroying in 
part its digestibility. All doctors will tell 
you this, and it is unquestionable. The use 
of alum in whiskey is absolutely prohibited; 
why not equally protect the food of our 
women and children ? 

Alum baking powders may be known by 
their price. Baking powders at a cent an 
ounce or ten or twenty-five cents a pound are 
made from alum. Avoid them. Use no 
baking powder unless the label shows it is 
made from cream of tartar. 


Copyright, 1913, by Royal Baking Powder Co. 



THE ROYAL BAKER 

Index to 


Baked Beans. 35 

Batter, Frying. 7 

Beef. 34 

Beef Tea. 42 

Beverages. 42 

Biscuit, Breakfast.4, 5 

Biscuit, Egg. 5 

Biscuit, Royal Hot. 4 

Biscuit, Sandwich. 5 

Bread, Brown. . 2 

Bread, Corn. 3 

Bread, Graham. . . 2 

Bread, Royal Baking Powder. 2 

Bread, Rye. 3 

Bread & Rolls.1, 2, 3 

Broiling,. 33 

Broth. 31 

Buns ... . 20 

Buns, Hot Cross.. 6 

Cake.10 to 20 

Cake Fillings,.13, 18, 19 

Cake Icings.18, 19 

Cakes, Plain.19, 20 

Cakes, Royal Buckwheat. 9 

Cakes, Royal Wheat. 9 

Cakes with more than 4 eggs, 

10, 11, 12, 13, 14 

Cakes with 4 eggs or less.15, 16, 17 

Candies & Confectionery. 43 

Canning & Preserving*... 30 

Charlotte Russe. 28 

Chickens.36, 37 

Chicken Pie. 37 

Chowder. 32 

Coffee. 42 

Cookery for Sick. 42 

Cookies and Small Cakes with more 

than 4 eggs.14, 15 

Cookies and Small Cakes with 4 eggs 

or less.17, 18 

Cooking Directions, General.. 1 

Corn Bread. 3 

Crullers.21, 22 

Crumpets. . 6 

Custards. 28 

Desserts.26, 27, 28, 29 

Desserts, Frozen. 29 

Doughnuts.21, 22 

Dumplings, Fruit. 22 

Dumplings for Soups, Stews, &c.22, 23 

Eggs. 39 

Fillings for Cakes.18, 19 

Fish.31,32 

Fish Balls. 32 

Fish, Shell.32, 33 

French Rolls. 2 

Fritters.7, 8 

Frozen Desserts. 29 

Fruit, Canned. 30 

Fruit Ices. 29 

Fruit Short Cakes.20, 21 

Fruit Rolls. 3 

F rying. 33 

Fudge. 43 

Gems. 6 

Gingerbread. 16 


AND PASTRY COOK 


Receipts 


Glossary of Cookery Terms... 

Griddle Cakes.. 

Ham, to boil.. 

Hot Biscuit. 

Hot Cross Buns. 

Ice Cream. 

Ices, Water... 

Icings for Cakes. 

Invalids, Cookery for. 

Irish Stew. 

Jams & Jellies.. 

Jumbles. 

Macaroni. 

Measures. 

Meats. 

Meat Sauces.. 

Meat Stuffings. 

Mince Meat. 

Mock Duck. 

Muffins. 

Mutton and Lamb. 

Omelets. 

Oysters. 

Pancakes. 

Paste for Pies... . 

Pastry Cream. 

Peculiars. 

Pickles. 

Pies & Pie Paste. 

Pork. 

Pork and Beans. 

Pot Pie . 

Poultry.. 

Preserves... . 

Puddings. 

Roasting. 

Rolls.. 

Royal Cookies. 

Royal Wheat Cakes. 

Rusks. 

Salads. 

Sally Lunns. 

Sauces for Fish. 

Sauces for Meats. 

Sauces for Puddings. 

Sausage. . 

Scones. 

Scotch Woodcock. 

Shell Fish. 

Sherbets. 

Souffl6, Fruit.. 

Soups. 

Soup Stock. 

Stews. 

Stuffings, Meat & Poultry.. . 

Sweetbreads. 

Tarts, Fruit. 

Tea. 

Veal. 

Vegetables. 

Vegetables, Time of Cooking. 

Waffles. 

Water Ices. 

Weights & Measures. 

Welsh Rarebit. 


. 44 

.8, 9, 10 

. 34 

.4, 5 

. 6 

. 29 

. 29 

.18, 19 

. 42 

. 35 

. 30 

. 17 

. 41 

. 30 

33, 34, 35, 36 

.37, 38 

. 36 

. 28 

. 37 

.4, 5, 6 

. 34 

. 39 

.32, 33 

. 10 

. 26 

. 11 

. 7 

.41, 42 

_26, 27, 28 

. 35 

. 35 

.27, 37 

.36, 37 

. 30 

.23, 24, 25, 34 

. 34 

.2, 3 

. 14 

. 9 

. 7 

.38, 39 

. 7 

. 37 

.37, 38 

.25, 26 

. 35 

. 6 

. 39 

.32, 33 

. 29 

. 25 

.30, 31 

. 30 

. 35 

. 36 

. 35 

. 27 

. 42 

. 36 

. 39 

. 39 

.7, 8 

. 29 

. 11 

. 39 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 

































































































































Royal Baking Powder 

Is a superior preparation for raising or leavening biscuit, 
cake, griddle-cakes, rolls, muffins, crusts, puddings, 
doughnuts, hotbreads and other similar flour foods. 

Royal Baking Powder 

Is absolutely pure and wholesome. Royal is the only 
baking powder made from Royal grape cream of tartar, 
a derivative of rich, ripe grapes, and chemically pure 
baking soda. It perfectly aerates and leavens the batter 
or dough, and makes the food finer in appearance, more 
delicious to the taste, and more healthful. 

It possesses the greatest practicable leavening strength, 
never varies in quality, and will keep fresh and perfect 
in all climates until used. 

Royal Baking Powder 

Is specially useful in making fine cake. For this purpose, 
with highest class bakers in America and Great Britain, 
it has generally superseded other leavening agents. 

Royal Baking Powder 

Is recommended by expert bakers and pastry cooks be¬ 
cause it makes the preparation of good food easier. Ex¬ 
perienced housekeepers find that it makes the food of 
finer and better quality. Physicians are unanimous in 
commending it because it improves the healthfulness of 
the food. 

Royal Baking Powder 

Is used by the prominent pastry chefs in America, in¬ 
cluding those of the White House, Delmonico’s and 
Sherry’s famous restaurants, the Waldorf-Astoria, the 
Belmont, the Plaza, the Astor, and other hotels in New 
York. It is used upon the great transatlantic steamships 
and generally in the leading hotels, public institutions, 
and private families throughout the world. 


FOR MAKING THE FINEST AND MOST HEALTHFUL FOOD. ROYAL 
BAKING POWDER IS INDISPENSABLE 







GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

MUST BE CAREFULLY READ BY EVERYONE USING THIS BOOK 

H INTS ON BAKING.—To achieve perfect success, the cook must use discrimination 
and care. Some flour requires more water, or milk, than others; so that the quan¬ 
tity may require to be varied for dough of a proper consistency. Different 
bakings will vary as to time and heat required, and should, therefore, be examined 
occasionally. To ascertain whether the bread is sufficiently done in the center of the 
loaf or cake, thrust a clean straw or long thin splinter into it. If done, there will be no 
dough on it when drawn out. Measure the flour, and be careful to mix with it the baking 
powder in a dry state, and before sifting. You can always substitute water for milk, or 
milk for water; butter for lard, or lard for butter. The number of eggs may be increased 
or diminished, or, in plainer cake, etc., dispensed with entirely. Where fewer eggs are 
used than directed, always use a little more baking powder. Never use sour milk. When 
flour and liquid are to be mixed, always stir liquid gradually into the flour—to add 
flour to liquid usually means lumps, especially for an inexperienced cook. 

When about to cut new bread or cake, heat the knife very hot; this will prevent its 
crumbling. 

CAKE BAKING.—For a plain cake made with one pound of flour, Royal Baking 
Powder, etc., the time to be allowed in baking would be from 40 to 50 minutes; at the 
outside not more than one hour. Very rich cakes, in which butter and eggs predominate, 
take, of course, very much longer time to bake, a pound cake taking from 1^ to 2 hours, 
and a bride’s cake 3J^. On no account should an oven be too hot when the cake is put 
in—that is, hot enough to brown at once; if so, in 5 minutes the whole outside will be 
burned and the interior will stand little chance of being baked. The old plan of feeling 
the handle of the oven door to test the heat is not always successful; it is better to 
sprinkle a little flour inside and shut the door for about three minutes; if at the end of that 
time it is of a rich light brown, the cake may be put in, but if burned the heat must be 
lessened. 

In baking loaf cake, remember that unless you place a piece of paper over for protec¬ 
tion at first, a top crust will be formed at once that prevents the raising. When cake is 
well raised, remove the paper for browning on top. 

ADVICE TO THE COOK.—Great cleanliness, as well as care and attention, is 
required from a cook. Keep your hands very clean; try to prevent your nails from get¬ 
ting black or discolored; don’t ** scatter” in your kitchen; clean up as you go; put cold 
water into each saucepan or stewpan as you finish using it. Dry your saucepans before 
you put them on the shelf. Scour tins with good mineral soap and rinse thoroughly in 
hot water. In cleaning a frying-pan, scour the outside as well as the inside. In cleaning 
greasy utensils, such as the soup-pot and frying-pan, wipe off the worst of the grease 
with soft paper (which can be burned), then soak in warm water to which soap-powder 
or a little ammonia has been added, finishing with mineral soap. Wash your pudding- 
cloths, scald, and hang them to dry directly after using them; air them before you put 
them away, or they will be musty; keep in dry place. Be careful not to use a knife 
that has cut onions till it has been cleaned. Keep sink and sink-brush very clean; be 
careful never to throw anything but water down sink. Do not throw cabbage water 
down it; throw it away out of doors; its smell is very bad. Never have sticky plates 
or dishes; use very hot water for washing them; when greasy, change it. Take care 
that you look at the meat the butcher brings, to see that it is good. Let there be no 
waste in the kitchen. 


Bread and Rolls 


healthful, economical, and convenient of all 
leavening or lightening agents. 

B READ was first made without leaven, Yeast is a living plant. Mixed with the 
heavy and solid. Then yeast was dis- dough it causes fermentation and destruction 
covered, and yeast-risen bread came of a part of the flour, and this produces car- 
into use throughout the civilized world, bonic-acid gas. The bubbles of this gas 
Finally baking powder was devised, the most become entangled in the dough, swelling it up 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


2 THE ROYAL BAKER 

and making it spongy. In this process, how¬ 
ever, a part of the most nutritions elements 
of the flour (estimated at ten per cent.) is 
destroyed in producing the leavening gas; 
there is always danger of sour dough, and 
there is a delay of many hours for the sponge 
to rise. 

Perfect bread is that in which wheat is 
transposed into an available food without 
loss of any of its valuable properties. 

Royal Baking Powder is now largely used 
in place of yeast to leaven bread. It does pre¬ 
cisely the same work—that is, swells up the 
dough and makes it porous and spongy. But 
the process is not destructive: the baking 
powder by itself produces the leavening gas. 
No part of the flour is decomposed or de¬ 
stroyed. Moreover, there is no mixing or 
kneading with the hands, no setting of sponge 
overnight, as the loaf is mixed and ready for 
the oven at once. Bread thus made cannot 
sour, but will retain its moisture and freshness, 
and may be eaten while hot or fresh without 
distress even by persons of delicate digestion. 

The ease with which Royal Baking Powder 
bread is made, its cleanliness and healthful¬ 
ness, have caused it to supersede yeast bread 
with many of the best pastry cooks. 

In making this bread the materials and 
utensils should be brought together before the 
mixing of the dough is begun. The fire must 
be looked to so as to secure a steady, moderate 
heat. Remember to mix the flour and Royal 
Baking Powder together before sifting, and 
sift thoroughly before wetting. 

Royal Baking Powder Bread.—1 quart 
flour, 1 teaspoon salt, y teaspoon sugar, 2 
heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, y 
medium-sized cold well-boiled potato, and 
water, milk or equal quantities of each. Sift 
thoroughly together flour, salt, sugar, and 
baking powder; rub in the potato; add 
sufficient liquid to mix rapidly and smoothly 
into a stiff batter or soft dough. This will 
require about one pint of liquid. Turn at once 
into greased loaf-pan, smooth the top with 
knife dipped _ in melted butter and bake 
immediately in moderate oven about one 
hour. When done take from the pan, moisten 
with the hand dipped in cold water, wrap in 
bread cloth until cold. 

Boston Brown Bread .—y pint flour, 1 
pint Indian corn meal, y pint rye flour, 2 po¬ 
tatoes, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon brown 
sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, y 2 
pint water. Sift flour, corn meal, rye flour, 
sugar, salt, and baking powder together thor¬ 
oughly. Peel, wash, and boil well 2 mealy po¬ 
tatoes, rub them through a sieve, diluting 
with water. When this is quite cold use it to 
mix flour, etc., into a batter. Pour into well- 
greased mold having a cover. Place it in 
saucepan half full of boiling water, where the 
loaf will simmer 1 hour, without water getting 
into it. Remove it then, take off cover, finish 
by baking in fairly hot oven about 30minutes. 


AND PASTRY COOK 

Boston Brown Bread, 2.—2 cups yellow 
Indian corn meal, 1 cup rye meal, 1 cup flour, 

2 cups milk, 1 cup molasses, y 2 teaspoon salt, 

3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mix well 
together, pour into greased brown-bread 
mold, steam 4 hours. Dry off 10 minutes in 
moderate oven. 

Graham Unfermented Bread. —1 y 2 pints 
Graham flour, y 2 pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 
1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, iy pints milk, or equal parts milk 
and water. Sift together Graham flour, 
flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add the milk, 
or milk and water; mix rapidly into soft 
dough, which put into greased tin. Bake in 
rather hot oven about 40 minutes. Protect 
loaf with paper first 15 minutes. 

Graham Bread with Eggs. —Mix together 
3 cups Graham flour, 1 cup wheat flour, 2 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon 
salt; rub in 1 tablespoon butter or other 
shortening. Beat 3 eggs; add 1 cup milk and 
1 tablespoon molasses; stir into dry mixture. 
Add more milk if needed to make a drop bat¬ 
ter. Put into a greased loaf-pan, smooth 
with knife dipped in cold water. Bake about 
1 hour in moderate oven. 

Graham Lunch Bread. — ly pints Graham 
flour, y pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 
teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, % pint milk. Sift together Graham 
flour, flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add the 
milk; mix into smooth dough that can be 
easily handled. Flour the board, turn out 
dough, give it a quick, vigorous additional 
kneading to complete its smoothness; then 
divide into four large pieces, which form into 
long loaves, lay them just touching in a 
square shallow cake-pan, wash them over 
with milk. Bake in rather hot oven 30 min¬ 
utes. When removing from oven rub them 
over with a little butter on a clean piece of 
linen. 

Delicate Graham Bread (for Invalids).— 

1 pint Graham flour, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 1 of salt, 2 of Royal Baking Powder. 
Sift all well together, rejecting coarse bran 
left in sieve; add 1 y pints milk. Mix quickly 
into smooth, soft dough. Bake in 2 small 
greased tins 25 minutes. Protect with paper 
10 minutes. 

Graham Rolls. —1 pint Graham flour, 1 
pint wheat flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or 
lard, % pint milk. Sift together Graham 
flour, flour, salt, and powder; rub in the 
shortening; add milk, and mix the whole 
into smooth dough that can be handled— 
not too soft; flour board, turn it out, and 
form into rolls shape and size of large fingers. 
Lay them on baking-sheet so that they will 
not touch. Wash their surfaces with soft 
brush dipped in milk to glaze them. Bake 
in hot oven from 10 to 12 minutes. 

French Rolls.—Make dough as for lunch 
rolls. Knead on board. Divide into pieces 
size of an egg. Form each into a short, thick, 
tapering roll. Put together by twos, side by 
side, pinching ends together a little. Place 
on flat greased pans Brush with milk. Bake 
in very hot oven. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 



THE ROYAL BAKER 

Rice and Indian Bread. —Beat 3 eggs very- 
light; add 1 pint milk, 2 cups white Indian 
com meal, 1 cup cold boiled rice, 2 table¬ 
spoons melted butter, A teaspoon salt, 2 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, A cup more 
milk. Beat hard, bake in shallow greased 
pan in hot oven. 

Norwegian Bread ' (for Dyspeptics).—1 

pint barley meal, X A pint Graham flour, V 2 
pint flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 pint milk. Sift together 
barley meal, Graham flour, flour, salt, and 
powder; mix into firm batter with the milk; 
pour into greased tin, bake in moderate oven 
about 40 minutes. Cover with paper 20 
minutes. 

Oatmeal Bread. — X A pint oatmeal, \ X A pints 
flour, A teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, % pint milk. Boil oatmeal in 1A 
pints salted water 1 hour; add milk; set 
aside nn t.il cold. Then place in bowl, sift to¬ 
gether flour, salt, and powder, and add. Mix 
smoothly and deftly. Bake in greased tin 
about 45 minutes, protected with paper 
20 minutes. 

Com Bread (New Orleans). — 1 A, pints In¬ 
dian com meal, X A pint flour, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or 
lard, 1 X A pints milk, 2 eggs. Sift together 
com meal, flour, sugar, salt, and powder; rub 
in the shortening, add eggs (beaten) and the 
milk; mix into a moderately stiff batter; 
pour from bowl into shallow cake-pan. Bake 
m rather hot oven 30 minutes. 

St. Charles Corn Bread. —1 pint Indian 
corn meal, 1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon 
melted butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder; sift baking powder 
and salt with the com meal; mix milk, 
melted butter and beaten eggs together, stir 
into the meal and beat hard for 2 minutes; 
pour into greased pan, bake about 30 min¬ 
utes in hot oven. 

Nonpareil Com Bread. —2 heaping cups 
Indian com meal, 1 cup flour, 2 X A cups milk, 1 
tablespoon lard, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt. 
Beat 2 eggs, whites and yolks separately. 
Sift together dry ingredients, melt lard. Mix 
all together, beat hard 1 minute, turn into 
greased shallow pan, and bake about X A hour 
in hot oven. 

Spider Com Bread. —Beat 2 eggs with 2 
tablespoons sugar. Add 1 pint milk, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 1 X A cup Indian corn meal, X A cup 
flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. In a 
spider melt 2 tablespoons butter; turn so as 
to grease sides. Pour in batter, add 1 cup 
milk, but do not stir. Bake about 30 minutes 
in hot oven. When done it should have a 
streak of custard through the middle. 

Hominy Bread. —Mix together 1 pint soft- 
boiled hominy, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 4 beaten eggs, 2 cups milk. 
Mix together 1 cup flour, 2 teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder; add to batter, with more 
flour if needed to mix to a drop batter. Beat 
hard, bake in a shallow pan in very hot oven. 


AND PASTRY COOK 3 

Entire Wheat Bread. —1 quart entire 
wheat flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 

2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Sift all 
well together; add sufficient liquid (water, 
milk, or equal quantities of each) to mix to a 
very thick batter or soft dough. Turn at once 
into a greased loaf-pan, smooth with knife 
dipped in cold water, and bake about 1 hour 
in moderate oven. 

Rye Bread. — 1 pint rye flour, A pint Indian 
corn meal, A pint wheat flour, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter or lard, 
% pint milk. Sift together rye flour, corn 
meal, flour, sugar, salt, and powder; rub in 
the shortening; add milk. Mix into smooth 
batter. Pour into well-greased tin, bake in 
moderate oven about 45 minutes. Protect 
loaf with paper first 20 minutes. 

Mush Bread. — 1 pint milk cooked in a 
double boiler, with sufficient Indian corn 
meal to make a thick mush. Cook 1 hour; 
add 1 tablespoon butter; stir, let cool; add 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
1 cup flour, X A teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder. Turn into shallow greased 
pan, bake 40 minutes in moderate oven. 

Lunch Rolls. — 1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 
tablespoon butter, 1 pint milk. Sift together 
flour, salt and baking powder. Melt butter 
and add to milk; stir this into flour, etc. 
With spoon mix to a smooth dough easily 
handled. Flour molding board, turn out 
dough, give 1 or 2 quick kneadings to give it 
smoothness. Roll out about X A inch thick, 
cut out with round cutter not too large; lay 
them in greased baking tin in even rows just 
touching; smooth over with clean muslin 
dipped in milk; bake in fairly hot oven 25 
minutes or less; or, divide kneaded dough 
into pieces size of an egg, form each by hand 
into short, thick, tapering roll. Put together 
in twos, side by side, pinching ends together 
a little. Place on flat greased pans. Brush 
with milk. Bake in very hot oven. 

Parker House Rolls. —Prepare firm dough 
as for lunch rolls. Knead and roll out A 
inch thick. Cut into 3-inch circles. Press 
pencil down across middle of each; rub edges 
with soft butter. Double each, lay 1 inch 
apart on flat greased pans. Brush with milk, 
and bake in hot oven. If sweetening is liked 
sprinkle granulated sugar over rolls before 
folding. 

Fruit Rolls. —Mix together 1 quart flour, 1 
teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder; rub in 2 table¬ 
spoons butter. Cut fine X A pound citron, seed 
and halve A pound raisins. Mix fruit evenly 
with dry ingredients, make to a firm dough 
with milk. Knead on board for a moment, 
divide into pieces size of egg, make into long 
rolls, lay 1 inch apart on flat greased pans, 
brush with milk. Bake in a very hot oven. 


By baking at home with Royal 
Baking Powder instead of buying 
ready-made, you save money and 
get better and cleaner food. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 



4 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Hot Biscuits, Cakes, and 
Muffins 

XPERIENCED housekeepers agree that 
breakfast is difficult to cater for. Even 
the appetite ordinarily easy to satisfy is 
likely to be captious when approaching the 
first meal of the day. Every article of food 
upon the breakfast-table, therefore, should be 
perfect—the coffee as clear as amber, the 
bacon white and crisp, the biscuits flaky, ten¬ 
der, delicious. 

As a nation we approve of hot-breads, and 
most of all at the breakfast-table. And while 
we eat and enjoy them, we have the satisfac¬ 
tion of knowing that American methods and 
American cookery have made them healthful 
as well as appetizing and nutritious. 

And of all the breakfast foods, nothing is 
so appetizing, so appetite-whetting, so always 
dependable, so satisfying, as the light, flaky, 
hot biscuit, with a crisp, brown crust, just 
from the oven, broken apart without use of 
knife, and spread with butter; or, to top off 
the meal, with honey, jam, or marmalade. 

The very simplicity of the methods of mak¬ 
ing and the familiar, every-day use of this 
little hot bread-morsel have, however, some¬ 
times led to lack of care in its preparation, so 
that we too seldom find it in perfection upon 
our tables. 

With a basis of flour, salt, and Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, we can add other ingredients to 
vary and enrich the cakes and biscuits gen¬ 
erally known to the housewife, and produce in 
almost endless variety breakfast and lunch¬ 
eon foods that shall be dainty and delicious 
or substantial and hearty. 

If eggs are scarce and high, if too much 
shortening disagrees with some member of the 
family, Royal Baking Powder permits the 
lessening of both or either of these ingredients, 
without impairing the delicacy or digestibility 
of the finished biscuit. 

Royal Baking Powder is pure and health¬ 
ful, and its use in excess can produce no 
harm; yet for cooking results it is best to be 
guided by the quantity specified in the re¬ 
ceipts. Baking powder could be added until 
a dry, powdery biscuit resulted. 

The mixing of the baking powder, flour, 
and other dry ingredients should be thorough 
and the liquid always added gradually. This 
is imperative if a delicate, evenly leavened 
biscuit is wanted. The other ingredients 
can then be added, following the special direc¬ 
tions as given in each receipt. 

In using shortening for biscuits, especially 
through the winter season, with some limita¬ 
tion, good, sweet home-made lard may take 
the place of butter. Butter will give a light 
cream coior; lard whitens the biscuits. This 

ROYAL BAKING POWDE 


substitution will not do when considerable 
shortening is called for, as in cake; but in 
receipts where the quantity does not exceed 
2 ounces or tablespoons to the quart of flour, 
butter may, in the majority of cases, be re¬ 
placed by lard without impairing the taste. 

Biscuits are mixed toe. soft dough, which is 
turned out, patted down or rolled to a proper 
thickness, and then cut out and baked. From 
long experience it has been found that the re¬ 
sult is much better and the food more digest¬ 
ible when the finished biscuit is small and not 
too thick. The scientific reason for this is 
that the oven heat necessary for biscuit, if 
they are made very large, will brown the 
outside before the center is as thoroughly 
baked as it ought to be. The dough should 
be rolled out until l A inch thick; the biscuits 
should be of medium size,—2 inches or less 
across,—and placed slightly apart in the 
pans. A favorite cutter of expert biscuit- 
makers is the open end (not the cover) of a 
14-pound Royal Baking Powder can. A good 
oven heat will bake the biscuits perfectly in 
from 15 to 20 minutes, and even a dyspeptic 
can eat them without fear of consequences. 
The biscuits may, of course, be made thicker 
or thinner, as more or less of the soft inside 
part may be preferred, but the time of baking 
must be regulated accordingly. 

The same directions will apply to hot bak¬ 
ing powder breads made with a batter. If 
baked in a sheet the batter should rarely be 
more than an inch deep in the pan, some¬ 
times less; if in cups or molds they should 
not be more than % full. This allows the 
heat to penetrate the mixture quickly; the 
moisture and heat start the baking powder 
into life; each tiny grain of the powder acts on 
the materials surrounding it; the dough or 
batter expands, then is stiffened by the heat, 
and all the starch grains are thoroughly and 
evenly cooked. 

Royal Hot Biscuit. — 1 quart flour, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
1 tablespoon lard or butter, 1 pint sweet milk, 
cold (never use sour milk); use cold w'ater 
when milk cannot be obtained. Sift together 
flour, salt, and powder. Melt lard or butter, 
add to cold milk and stir into flour, etc., with 
spoon, mixing thoroughly to smooth con¬ 
sistent dough. Flour the board, turn out 
dough, roll out to thickness of inch, cut 
with small round cutter, lay them close to- 
ether on greased baking-tin; bake in good 
ot oven. Old biscuits can be made fresh by 
moistening and placing in oven until heated 
through. 

Breakfast Biscuit. —Take 1 quart sweet 
milk, Vi cup melted butter, a little salt, 2 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, flour enough to 
make a stiff batter; do not knead into dough, 
but drop into buttered tins from a spoon; bake 
in a hot oven—unless it is hot they will not 
be light and tender. 

Et IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 



THE ROYAL BAKER 

Emergency Biscuit. —2 cups flour, y tea¬ 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder; 
mix and sift; rub in 1 tablespoon butter. Mix 
to a thick batter with milk, drop by small 
spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in quick 
oven. 

Egg Biscuit. —Mix and sift well together 1 
pint flour, y teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 
1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat 1 egg, 
add y cup milk, stir into dry mixture, adding 
more milk if necessary to mix to soft dough. 
Turn out on board, knead for a moment, cut 
into circles, place 1 inch apart on greased pans. 
Brush with little beaten egg, and bake in very 
hot oven. 

Sandwich Biscuit. —Sift together 1 pint 
flour, y teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder. Rub in 1 heaping tablespoon but¬ 
ter. Mix to a soft dough with milk. Roll out 
% inch thick. Cut into rounds. On V 2 of the 
rounds spread a little soft butter, add a thick 
layer of finely chopped and seasoned cold 
meat; cover with remaining rounds and press 
together. Brush tops with milk, place 1 inch 
apart on greased pans, and bake in hot oven. 

Nut Biscuit. —Sift together 2 cups flour, y 2 
teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder. Rub in 1 heaping tablespoon 
butter, add 1 cup ground or very finely chop¬ 
ped nuts—English walnuts, hickory-nuts, or 
almonds—and 2 tablespoons sugar; mix to a 
soft dough with milk. Mold with the hands 
into small balls, place well apart on greased 
pans, brush each with milk, put a pinch of 
chopped nuts on top, and bake in hot oven. 

Royal Muffins. —Beat 3 eggs, add 1 pint 
milk, y teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, and 
sufficient flour to make a drop batter—about 
3 cups—into which has been thoroughly 
sifted 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. 
Beat hard for 1 minute, fill greased muffin- 
cups or -pans % full, bake in hot oven about 
20 minutes. 

Boston Muffins.— ly pints flour, l^pint 
Indian com meal, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs, and 1 pint (full 
measure) milk, 1 teaspoon extract cinnamon 
(which may be omitted without detriment). 
Sift together flour, corn meal, sugar, salt, and 
powder; rub in butter or lard; add eggs, 
beaten, milk, and extract cinnamon. Mix 
into batter a little stiffer than ordinary 
griddle-cake batter. Have griddle heated 
regularly all over; grease it, lay on it muffin- 
rings, also greased; half fill them with batter. 
As soon as risen to tops of rings, turn them 
over gently with cake-turner; bake nice 
brown on either side. They should bake in 
7 or 8 minutes. 

French Muffins. —ly pints flour, 1 cup 
honey, y teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, 
and little over y pint milk or thin cream. 
Sift together flour, salt, and powder; rub in 
butter, cold; add beaten eggs, milk or thin 
cream, and honey. Mix smoothly into batter 
as for pound cake; about y fill sponge-cake 
tins, cold and fully greased, and bake in good 
steady oven 7 or 8 minutes. 


AND PASTRY COOK 5 

Rice Muffins.—2 cups cold boiled rice, 1 
pint flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 
1 y teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, y pint 
milk, 3 eggs. Dilute rice, made free from 
lumps, with milk and beaten eggs; sift to¬ 
gether flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add to 
rice preparation, mix into smooth, rather firm 
batter; muffin-pans to be cold and well 
greased, then fill %; bake in hot oven 15 
minutes. 1 cup cold boiled hominy may be 
substituted for rice. 

Rye Muffins. — 1 pint rye flour, y. pint com 
meal, y pint flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
1 tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift 
together rye flour, corn meal, flour, sugar, 
salt, and powder; rub in butter; add beaten 
eggs, and milk; mix into smooth, rather firm, 
batter; muffin-pans to be cold and well 
greased, then fill %. Bake in hot oven 15 
minutes. 

Royal Corn Muffins. —1 pint Indian com 
meal, 1 pint flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
1 tablespoon butter or lard, 2 eggs, 1 pint 
milk. Sift together com meal, flour, sugar, 
salt, and powder; rub in the shortening, add 
eggs, beaten, and milk; mix into batter of 
consistence of cup cake; muffin-pans to be 
cold and well greased, then fill %. Bake in 
hot oven 15 minutes. 

English Muffins. —1 quart flour, y tea¬ 
spoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 large teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, ly pints milk. Sift 
together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add 
milk, and mix into smooth batter trifle stiffer 
than for griddle cakes. Have griddle heated 
regularly all over, grease it, and lay on muffin- 
rings; half fill them, and when risen well up 
to top of rings, turn over gently with cake- 
turner. They should not be too brown—just 
a buff color. When all cooked, pull each open 
in half, toast delicately, butter well, serve on 
folded napkin, piled high and very hot. 

Mountain Muffins. —Pour ly cups scalding 
milk on 1 cup white Indian com meal; cover; 
let stand 10 minutes; add 1 cup cold boiled 
rice; mix; add 1 cup flour mixed with 3 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 table¬ 
spoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 well-beaten 
eggs, 2 tablespoons melted butter. Beat 
hard; bake in greased muffin-pans in hot 
oven. 

Blueberry Muffins. —1 pint flour, y tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 tablepoons melted butter, y cup 
sugar, 2 small teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 1 cup berries. 
Mix as for plain muffins; add berries last, 
dusting them with a little flour. Bake in 
muffin-pans in hot oven. 

Royal Egg Muffins. —1 quart flour, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 large 
tablespoon butter, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, 3 eggs, ly pints milk. Sift together 
flour, sugar, salt, and powder; mb in the 
butter; add the beaten eggs and milk; mix 
quickly into a smooth batter, a little firmer 
than for griddle cakes; % fill cold, carefully 
greased muffin-pans; bake in hot oven 15 
minutes. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 



6 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Graham Muffins. —1 quart Graham flour, 
1 tablespoon brown sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, 1 
pint milk. Sift together Graham flour, sugar, 
salt, and powder; add beaten egg and milk; 
mix into batter like pound cake; muffin- 
pans, well greased, % full; bake in hot oven 
15 minutes. 

Oatmeal Muffins. —1 cup oatmeal, 134 pints 
flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon lard, 2 eggs, 1 
pint milk. Sift together oatmeal, flour, salt, 
and powder; rub in lard cold, add beaten 
eggs and milk; mix smoothly into batter 
rather thinner than cup cake; fill muffin-pans 
% full; bake in good hot oven 15 minutes. 

Potato Muffins. —Boil and mash 3 pota¬ 
toes; add 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
butter; beat well. Add 2 beaten eggs, 34 cup 
milk, flour to make a drop batter, and 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder. Bake on hot 
greased griddle in greased rings. 

Sweet Muffins. — 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 
tablespoon melted butter, 1 pint sweet milk, 
3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients; add milk and beaten egg and 
butter. Beat hard, bake in greased muffin- 
pans. 

Butter Cakes. —Mix 1 quart flour, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. 
Rub in 3 tablespoons butter. Mix to a soft 
dough with milk, roll out 24 inch thick, cut in 
round cakes. Lay on a moderately hot 
greased griddle, and when pale brown turn 
and brown on other side. Tear open, butter 
liberally, and send to table. 

Gems. — 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, 34 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 3 teaspoons melted butter, 1 cup milk, 
3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
Mix as for muffins, adding beaten whites 
last; bake in hot, well-greased iron gem- 
pans. 

Royal Graham Gems. —134 pints Graham 
flour, 34 pint Indian com meal, 1 teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1% 
pints milk. Sift together Graham flour, corn 
meal, salt, and powder. Add the milk, and 
mix into a moderately stiff batter. 34 fill 
cold gem-pans well greased. Bake in a hot 
oven 10 to 12 minutes. 

Rice Gems. — 1 egg, 1 cup milk, 1 cup cold 
boiled rice, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak¬ 
ing powder, 34 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
melted butter. Mix as for plain gems, and 
bake in hot oven in gem-pans. 

Apple Gems. —Chop fine 4 sour apples, add 

1 beaten egg, 2 tablespoons molasses, 134 cups 
Indian corn meal, 134 cups flour, 34 teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. 
Add sufficient milk to make thick drop batter, 
and bake in hot greased gem-pans. 

Rice Crumpets. —3 eggs, 134 cups milk, 1 
cup cold boiled rice, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, 1 cup Indian corn meal, 34 cup flour, 

2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 34 tea¬ 
spoon salt. Mix in order named, and bake 
in crumpet-rings on hot greased griddle. 


Crumpets. —Melt 1 heaping tablespoon 
lard; add 2 beaten eggs and 134 cups milk 
Beat well, add 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons 
sugar, 3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder 
sifted with 234 cups flour. Crumpet-rings are 
larger than muffin-rings. Put greased rings 
on hot greased griddle; fill % full with batter. 
Turn when half done. 

London Crumpets. —134 pints flour, 34 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, nearly a pint 
milk and cream in equal parts, 1 teaspoon 
extract cinnamon. Sift together flour, salt, 
sugar, and powder; add beaten egg, milk, 
cream, and extract; mix into rather firm 
batter; half fill large greased muffin-rings on 
hot, well-greased griddle. Bake on one side 
of them only. Serve hot with cottage cheese. 

Hominy Crumpets.—1 scant cup boiled 
hominy, 2 cups milk, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 tablespoons melted butter, 
enough flour to make thin drop batter, with 2 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder sifted into 
the first cup. Bake as directed for plain crum¬ 
pets. 

Bannocks. —Scald 2 cups Indian corn meal 
with just enough boiling water to' moisten. 
Cover; let stand 30 minutes; add 4 beaten 
eggs, 2 cups milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 table¬ 
spoons melted butter, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder. Bake in greased 
shallow pans in hot oven. 

Slappers. —Put 2 cups Indian corn meal in 
bowl with 34 teaspoon salt and 2 tablespoons 
butter. Pour on slowly sufficient boiling 
water to thoroughly moisten without being 
sloppy. Cover; let stand for some hours or 
overnight. Add 3 well-beaten eggs, 1 cup 
milk, and 1 cup wheat flour, the first half¬ 
cupful of flour being mixed with 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, to make a very thick 
drop batter. Drop by spoonfuls on a hot 
greased griddle, cook slowly till brown, turn 
and brown other side. 

Scotch Scones. —1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 34 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 large tablespoon lard, 2 
eggs, nearly 1 pint milk. Sift together flour, 
sugar, salt, and powder; rub in lard cold; add 
beaten eggs and milk; mix into dough smooth 
and just consistent enough to handle. Flour 
the board, turn out dough, give it one or two 
quick kneadings to complete its smoothness; 
roll it out with rolling-pin to 34 inch in thick¬ 
ness, cut with sharp knife into squares larger 
than soda crackers, fold each in half to form 
three-cornered pieces. Bake on hot griddle 
8 or 10 minutes; brown on both sides. 

Hot Cross Buns. —Sift together 1 quart 
flour, 34 teaspoon salt, 1 cup sugar, 3 scant 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub in Y 
cup butter, then add 34 pound cleaned cur¬ 
rants, 34 teaspoon nutmeg, 34 pound cut 
citron, 34 pound seeded raisins, J 4 teaspoon 
allspice. Beat 2 eggs, add 34 cup milk, and 
stir into the dry mixture, adding enough 
more milk to mix to a firm dough. Mold into 
round buns, lay 2 inches’ apart on greased 
pans, brush with milk Cut cross on each, 
sprinkle cut with granulated sugar, bake in 
hot oven. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


7 


German Coffee Cake.—Sift together 3 cups 
flour, Y teaspoon salt, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 
scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub 
in 2 heaping tablespoons butter. Beat 2 eggs, 
add % cup milk, stir into dry mixture, adding 
more milk if necessary to mix to very stiff 
batter. Spread % inch thick in well-buttered 
shallow pan. Mix together 2 tablespoons 
flour, 4 tablespoons granulated sugar, 1 heap¬ 
ing tablespoon cinnamon. Rub in 2 table¬ 
spoons butter until it is crumbly. Spread 
thickly over top of dough, bake about Y hour 
in moderate oven. 

Drop Cakes.—1 pint flour, Y teaspoon salt, 

Y teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder sif ted together. Rub in Y tablespoon 
lard. Mix with milk to a thick batter. Drop 
by spoonfuls on greased pans, and bake in a 
very hot oven. 

Yorkshire Breakfast Cake. —Sift together 
3 cups flour, Yl teaspoon salt, 3 level teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 1 heaping 
tablespoon butter. Mix to a soft dough with 
milk. Roll out Y inch thick. Place without 
cutting on hot greased griddle, and cover. 
Place on moderate fire, cook about 10 minutes. 
Slip off on board, turn without breaking, re¬ 
turn to griddle and cook 10 minutes longer. 
Break into pieces and serve with butter. 

Royal Sally Limns.—Sift together 1 pint 
flour, 1Y teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, Y 
teaspoon salt. Stir in the beaten yolks of 2 
eggs mixed with Y cup milk and Yi cup melted 
butter. Beat hard, add the whites whipped 
to a stiff froth. Bake in well-greased muffin- 
pans in a hot oven. 

Rusks.— 1Y pints flour, Y teaspoon salt, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, 1 tea¬ 
spoon each extract nutmeg and cinnamon, Y 
pint milk. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, 
and powder; rub in butter; add milk, beaten 
eggs, and extracts. Mix into dough soft 
enough to handle; flour the board, turn out 
dough, give it quick turn or two to complete 
its smoothness. Roll under the hands into 
round balls size of a small egg; lay them on 
greased shallow cake-pan, put very close to¬ 
gether, sprinkle a little sugar over, bake in 
moderately heated oven about 30 minutes. 

Yankee Puffs. —Mix together 1J4 cups flour, 

Y teaspoon salt, scant teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 tablespoon sugar. Cream 1 table¬ 
spoon butter, add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, 
then alternately the dry mixture and 1cups 
milk, Y teaspoon vanilla, whipped whites of 

2 eggs. Bake in hot greased muffin-pans in a 
hot oven. 

German Puffs. —1 pint flour, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 1Y teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 

3 tablespoons butter, 4 eggs, 1 cup cream. 
Cream butter and sugar; add beaten eggs, 
then, alternately, the cream and dry ingre¬ 
dients sifted together. Bake in well-greased 
cups in hot oven. 

Peculiars. —1 pint flour, sifted with 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder and a little salt; 
add 1 egg; mix with 1 pint sweet milk, beat 
well to a batter, and bake quickly in buttered 
gem-pans already hot. 


Fritters and Waffles 

F RITTERS are served as a vegetable or a 
sweet, for a lunch, dinner, or supper, 
according to the ingredients used in 
making them. Whether sweet or plain, the 
foundation batter is much the same, and, with 
some additions, the first receipt given in this 
chapter can be used for many kinds of fritters. 
By the use of Royal Baking Powder a fine 
fritter batter may be stirred up in a moment, 
and a meal which it may be thought necessary 
to extend, perhaps because of unexpected 
guests, can be embellished by the addition of 
a delicate and tasty dish. 

A fritter batter which is to be used as a 
medium for whole or sliced fruit should be 
quite thin, as it is to serve as a cover for the 
fruit. When chopped fruits or vegetables are 
stirred in, or the batter is to be used plain, it 
should be thick enough to retain its shape 
when dropped by spoonfuls into the frying- 
kettle. The fat should be deep enough to 
cover the fritters, and it should be smoking 
hot when used. Each fritter will at first sink 
to the bottom of the kettle; then, as the heat 
starts the baking powder into action and the 
dough begins to swell, it will rise to the sur¬ 
face, and should be gently turned, the turning 
to be repeated until the fritter is finely colored. 
Most fritters are done within five minutes, 
the time needed to cook them being deter¬ 
mined by one which should be cooked as a 
tester. 

The very word “waffles" brings to our 
minds a host of pleasant recollections. The 
only drawback, in the old days, was that they 
must be started so long before they were 
ready for the irons, for home-made yeast took 
time to raise the batter to the requisite degree 
of lightness. Now, by the use of Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, they can be prepared in five min¬ 
utes. They are better than of old, too, for 
there is no yeasty taste to them; they are 
light, tender, and toothsome, and, what is 
most important, entirely digestible and 
wholesome. 

Plain Fritter Batter. —1 cup flour, Y tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder, Y teaspoon salt, 
2 eggs, 1 cup milk. Sift dry ingredients to¬ 
gether; add beaten eggs and milk; beat till 
smooth. 

Fruit Fritters. —Any kind of fruit may be 
made into fritters, as directed for apple fritters. 
Whole canned fruits, drained from syrup, 
may also be used. Apples and other fruits 
may also be prepared, coarsely chopped, 
stirred into a plain fritter batter, and dropped 
by small spoonfuls into smoking hot fat, 
finishing as already directed. 

Banana Fritters. —Peel bananas, cut in 
lengthwise slices. Let them steep an hour 
with sugar and lemon juice, dip in fritter bat¬ 
ter, and fry as directed for apple fritters. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


8 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Apple Fritters. — 4 large sound apples, 
peeled, cored, and cut each into 4 slices, )4 
gill wine, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon 
extract nutmeg. Place slices of apples in 
bowl with sugar, wine, and extract; cover 
with plate; set aside to steep two hours, then 
dip each slice in plain fritter batter, fry to 
light brown in plenty of lard made hot for the 
purpose; serve with sugar. 

Com Fritters. —To 1 pint scraped com add 
34 cup milk, 34 cup flour, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, 2 beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, 34 tea¬ 
spoon pepper, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der. Beat well, and fry in small spoonfuls as 
directed. 


Clam Fritters. —Wash and dry 25 good- 
sized clams or 2 strings soft-shell clams, dis¬ 
carding black part. Chop fine. Make a plain 
fritter batter, using the clam liquor (or that 
and milk) in place of milk. Stir in the chopped 
clams, season well with salt and pepper, and 
fry as directed. 

j Oyster Fritters. —Substitute oysters for 
clams as in above receipt. 


Pineapple Fritters. —Sprinkle half-inch 


let stand 1 hour. Dip each into plain fritter 
batter, drop into deep kettle of smoking hot 
fat, fry brown. Drain on paper and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. 


Meat Fritters.—Cut cold cooked meat in 
slices or fingers and dip in batter; or chop and 
stir into the batter, seasoned with salt, pepper 
and herbs or chopped onion, as desired. Fry 
as directed. 


Rice Fritters. — 1 cup rice, 1 pint milk, 3 
eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons butter. 
Boil rice in milk until soft and all the milk is 
absorbed, then remove, add yolks of eggs, 
sugar, and butter; when cold add whites, 
whipped to dry froth; drop in spoonfuls in 
plenty of lard, made hot for the purpose; fry 
them deep buff color. Serve with cream, wine 
or lemon sauce. 


Hominy Fritters.—To 1 pint hot boiled 
hominy add 2 beaten eggs, 34 teaspoon salt, 
dash of pepper, 34 cup milk. When cool add 
flour to make a thin drop batter, and 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat and drop 
in hot fat by small spoonfuls. 

Waffles.—Sift together 1 quart flour, 34 
teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder. Rub in 34 cup butter. 
Add 3 eggs,whites and yolks beaten separately, 
and sufficient milk to make a thin batter. 
Cook in hot greased waffle-irons. 

German Waffles.—1 quart flour, 34 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 large tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons 
lard, rind of 1 lemon, grated, 1 teaspoon ex¬ 
tract cinnamon, 4 eggs, and 1 pint thin cream. 
Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; 
rub in lard cold; add beaten eggs, lemon rind, 
extract, and milk. Mix into smooth, rather 
thick batter. Bake in hot waffle-iron, serve 
with sugar flavored with extract of lemon. 

Rice Waffles.—Into a batter as directed 
for soft waffles stir 1 cup of rice, free from 
lumps; cook as directed in same receipt. 


Soft Waffles.—1 quart flour, 34 teaspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon sugar, 2 teaspoons Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, 1 large tablespoon butter, 2 eggs, 
134 pints milk. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, 
and powder; rub in butter cold; add beaten 
eggs and milk; mix into smooth, consistent 
batter that will run easily and limpid from 
mouth of pitcher. Have waffle-iron hot and 
carefully greased each time; fill 34 , close it up; 
when brown turn over. Sift sugar on them, 
serve hot. 

Virginia Waffles.—Cook 34 cup white 
Indian com meal in 134 cups boiling water 30 
minutes, adding 1)4 teaspoons salt. Add 1)4 
cups milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 2 cups flour mixed with 2 heap¬ 
ing teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and 2 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
Cook in hot, well-greased waffle-iron. 

Jolly-boys.—Mix and sift together 3 cups 
rye meal, 1 cup flour, 34 cup Indian corn meal, 
34 teaspoon powdered cinnamon, 34 teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and 
2 tablespoons sugar. Add 1 beaten egg, 2 
tablespoons molasses, and sufficient cold wa¬ 
ter to make a thick batter. Drop by small 
spoonfuls in a kettle of smoking-hot fat, and 
cook till brown ^ 

Griddle Cakes, Etc. 

rTlHE griddle cake as made to-day with 
J. Roj Baking Powder is another arti¬ 
cle 01 . ’'od which has taken high rank 
upon the American table. The heavy, sour, 
grease-soaked, indigestible griddle cake of old 
is, where modern methods are employed, a 
thing of the past. The properly made griddle 
cake is a delicious food, healthful, appetizing, 
and nutritious. 

Raising the griddle cake with yeast is alto¬ 
gether obsolete with expert cooks. Mixtures 
of soda, saleratus, sour milk, buttermilk, etc., 
are likewise not permissible. Royal Baking 
Powder has altogether redeemed the griddle 
cake. It makes the cake light, tender, digest¬ 
ible, and its preparation and baking are the 
work of a moment only. 

Royal Baking Powder, plain, sweet milk, 
flour, and a little salt make a food fit for a 
feast. Eggs add to richness of griddle cakes 
but are really non-essential. 

The batter must be thin, the cakes made 
small and not too thick,—about a good 34 
inch thick when baked,—browned, and neatly 
turned. The griddle must be merely rubbed 
with grease, not grease-soaked. This is highly 
important. Take a thick piece of salt pork 
on a fork, or a lump of suet in a piece of 
cheese-cloth, and rub lightly over the hot 
griddle and pour the batter on immediately. 

Remember that buckwheat is one of the 
most difficult flours to lighten. Where it en¬ 
ters into combination with other materials 
this fact must be recognized and a some* 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


9 


what larger proportion of Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der allowed. Made in the manner directed in 
these receipts buckwheat cakes can be safely 
and profusely eaten by every one. 

Royal Wheat Cakes. —This is the best plain 
hot griddle cake without eggs. The cakes will 
be light, tender, and healthful. 1 quart flour, 

3 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, y 2 tea¬ 
spoon salt. Sift well together and add sweet 
milk to make into a soft batter. Bake imme¬ 
diately on hot griddle. Should be full % inch 
thick when baked. Smother with butter and 
maple syrup or honey. 

Griddle Cakes with Eggs.— 3 cups flour, 2 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon 
salt. Mix well together, add 2 well-beaten 
eggs and sufficient sweet milk to make a thin 
drop batter. Bake at once on a hot, well- 
greased griddle. Make them thin. 

Graham Griddle Cakes. — 1 pint Graham 
flour, y 2 pint Indian com meal, y pint flour, 
1 heaping teaspoon brown sugar, y 2 teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, 
y pint each of milk and water. Sift together 
Graham flour, corn meal, flour, sugar, salt, 
and powder. Add beaten egg, milk, and 
water. Mix together into a smooth batter. 
Heat griddle hot, pour batter into cakes as 
large as a tea saucer. Bake brown on one side, 
carefully turn and brown other side. Pile one 
on the other, serve very hot, with sugar, milk, 
cream, or maple syrup. 

Cereal Griddle Cakes. —1 cup any cold 
cooked cereal, mash fine to free from lumps, 
add 1 beaten egg, yolk and white separate, y 
teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, beat thor¬ 
oughly. Drop by spoonfuls on hot griddle 
and serve when brown with syrup. 

Geneva Griddle Cakes. — ly pints flour, 

4 tablespoons sugar, y teaspoon salt, ly tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 4 eggs, nearly y pint milk. Rub but¬ 
ter and sugar to white, light cream; add yolks 
of eggs, 1 at a time. Sift flour, salt, and pow¬ 
der together; add to butter, etc., with milk 
and egg whites whipped to dry froth; mix 
together into a smooth batter. Bake in small 
cakes; as soon as brown, turn and brown the 
other side. Have buttered baking-tin; fast 
as browned, lay them on it, and spread rasp¬ 
berry jam over them; then bake more, which 
lay on others already done. Repeat this until 
you have used jam twice, then bake another 
batch, which use to cover them. Sift sugar 
plentifully over them, place in a moderate 
oven to finish cooking. 

Three-egg Griddle Cakes. —3 cups milk, 2 
heaping cups flour, y teaspoon salt, 3 eggs, 2 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Mix as for 
plain griddle cakes, adding whites and yolks 
of eggs beaten separately. 

Indian Griddle Cakes. —% quart corn meal, 
y quart flour, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, y tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift together 
com meal, flour, salt, sugar, and powder, add 
beaten eggs and milk, mix into a smooth bat¬ 
ter. Bake on very hot griddle to a nice brown. 
Serve with molasses or maple syrup. 


Rice Griddle Cakes.—2 cups cold boiled 
rice, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon sugar, y tea¬ 
spoon salt, 13^ teaspoons Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, 1 egg, little more than y pint milk. Sift 
together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; add 
rice free from lumps, diluted with beaten egg 
and milk; mix into smooth batter. Have 
griddle well heated, bake nice brown, not too 
thick; serve with maple syrup. 1 cup of cold 
boiled hominy may be substituted for rice. 

Crushed Wheat Griddle Cakes. —1 cup 

crushed wheat, 1 y pints flour, 1 teaspoon 
brown sugar, y teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 egg, 1 pint milk. 
Boil 1 cup crushed wheat in % pint of water 
1 hour, then dilute with beaten egg and milk. 
Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and powder; 
add to crushed wheat preparation when quite 
cold; mix into smooth batter. Bake on hot 
griddle; brown delicately on both sides; serve 
with hygienic cream sauce. 

Com Meal Griddle Cakes. —2 cups corn 
meal, 1 cup flour, y teaspoon salt, 1 table¬ 
spoon molasses, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, milk or milk and water to mix to 
thin batter. Bake as already directed. 

Royal Buckwheats. —This is the most de¬ 
licious of all the griddle cakes. The old- 
fashioned buckwheat cakes made with yeast 
or raised overnight by means of batter from 
revious day were apt to be either sour or 
eavy and disagreeable effects naturally 
followed their eating. Now by the use of 
Royal Baking Powder to raise the batter, 
these objections have been entirely overcome, 
and buckwheat cakes are made a most deli¬ 
cious and perfectly wholesome food that can 
be eaten by any one without the slightest 
digestive inconvenience. 2 cups pure buck¬ 
wheat (do not use the so-called “ prepared ” 
or “self-raising” flours), 1 cup wheat flour, 2 
tablespoons Royal Baking Powder, y tea¬ 
spoon salt, all sifted well together. Mix with 
sweet milk into thin batter, and bake at once 
on a hot griddle. 

Buckwheat Cakes. —To 1 y pints pure 
buckwheat flour (never use prepared or self- 
raising flour) add % pint each wheat flour 
and Indian meal, 3 heaping teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
brown sugar or molasses. Sift well together, 
in dry state, buckwheat, Indian meal, wheat 
flour, and baking powder, then add remainder; 
when ready to bake add 1 pint water or suffi¬ 
cient to form smooth batter that will run in a 
stream (not too thin) from pitcher; make 
griddle hot and cakes as large as a saucer. 
When surface is covered with air-holes it is 
time to turn cakes over; take off when suffi¬ 
ciently browned. 

Bread Cakes. — y 2 pound bread, 1 pint flour, 
1 teaspoon brown sugar, y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 y 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, % pint milk, 
1 egg. Put bread, free from crust, to steep in 
warm water. When thoroughly soaked, 
wring dry in a towel; dilute with beaten egg 
and milk. Sift together flour, sugar, salt, and 
powder, add to prepared bread, mix together 
into a smooth batter. Bake on well-heated 
griddle. Serve with sugar and cream. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


10 THE ROYAL BAKER 

Wheat (or Flannel) Cakes. — 1^ pints flour, 
1 tablespoon brown sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 
heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 2 
eggs, V/i pints milk. Sift together flour, 
sugar, salt, and powder; add beaten eggs and 
milk, mix into smooth batter that will run 
in rather continuous stream from pitcher. 
Bake on good hot griddle rich brown color, in 
cakes large as tea saucers. Serve with maple 
syrup. 

Pancakes. — 1 pint flour, 6 eggs, 1 saltspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, and 
milk to make a thin batter. Add the baking 
powder to the flour, beat the whites and yolks 
of eggs separately ; add the yolks, salt, 2 cups 
milk, then the whites and the flour alternately 
with milk, until the batter is of right consis¬ 
tency. Run 1 teaspoon lard over the bottom 
of a hot frying-pan, pour in a large ladleful of 
batter, and fry quickly. Roll pancake up like 
a sheet of paper, lay upon a hot dish, put in 
more lard, and fry another pancake. Keep 
hot over boiling water. Send )4 dozen to]table 
at a time. Serve with sauce, jelly, or pre¬ 
serves. 

English Pancakes. — 1 pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup cream, pinch 
salt. Sift flour, salt, and powder together; 
add to it eggs beaten with sugar and diluted 
with milk and cream; mix into thin batter. 
Have small round frying-pan; melt little 
butter in it; pour about y 2 cup batter in it, 
turn pan round, that batter may cover the 
pan, put on hot fire; turn it and brown other 
side. Butter each and roll it up; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. 

French Pancakes. —Proceed as directed for 
English pancakes; when all are done, spread 
each with any kind of preserves, roll up, sift 
over plenty sugar, glaze with red-hot poker. 

V* 

Cakes 

Flour 

ANCY-CAKE makers and confectioners 
prefer to use “pastry” flour for the 
making of cakes and pastry, which is a 
flour of different grade from that used for 
bread and general baking purposes. Bread 
flour contains a large proportion of gluten, the 
nitrogenous property of the wheat grain, 
which gives bone and muscle, and makes 
bread a nutritious food. When bread flour 
is used for cake and pie crust the result is not 
quite as flaky and light as it should be, be¬ 
cause of the gluten in the flour. A special 
sack of pastry flour for use in making fine 
cakes and pastry will be advantageous. In ap¬ 
pearance pastry flour is whiter than bread 
flour. When rubbed between the fingers it 
feels as soft and fine as com-starch; if squeezed 
in the hand it forms a firm ball. Because of 
this tendency to “pack” it should always be 
sifted very thoroughly. 

Generally speaking, Royal Baking Powder 


AND PASTRY COOK 

used with any good flour will make satis¬ 
factory cake which will be creditable to any 
housekeeper. 

Royal Baking Powder 

In no department of cookery is Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder of greater use and importance 
than in making fine cake. Eggs are too 
expensive nowadays to be used as lavishly 
as they were a generation ago—ten or more to 
a cake. Not as a substitute wholly, but as an 
accessory,—as an aid toward producing the 
lightness and digestibility of the food,—we 
use the Royal Baking Powder. We thereby 
obtain uniformly good results and do a large 
amount of work at a minimum expense. The 
quantity called for by the receipt should be 
thoroughly mixed with the flour before the 
latter is sifted. 

The Royal Baking Powder has worked a 
revolution in cake-making. It is now no 
trouble to make at home the finest cakes in 
almost endless variety, which shall rival the 
productions of the confectioner. If you follow 
these directions there will be no spoiled or 
heavy cakes, no wasted materials through 
failures in mixing or baking. 

To Mix Cakes Containing Butter 

Cream the butter, beating till light. Gradu¬ 
ally add the sugar, beating till light and 
creamy. Add the yolks of eggs beaten till 
light, then the flavoring. Beat in alternately 
the liquid and flour, the latter mixed with 
salt and baking powder. Lastly, add the 
beaten whites, and fruit, if used. 

To Mix Cakes Containing No Butter 

Beat the egg yolks until very light and 
thick. Add the sugar gradually, beating 
till very light and spongy. Add the flavor¬ 
ing and liquid, if used. Have the whites of 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Add them 
alternately with the sifted flour (mixed with 
baking powder), and cut both in very lightly 
and quickly. 

To Bake Cakes 

Thin cakes need a hotter oven than loaf 
cakes. Cakes without butter (sponge cakes) 
should have a more moderate, longer baking 
than cakes of same size containing butter. 
The process of baking may be divided into 
four periods or quarters of time: in first quar¬ 
ter the cake begins to rise; in second quarter 
it is still rising and begins to color; in third 
quarter it browns all over; in last quarter it 
shrinks from sides of pan. 

To test, insert a clean broom-straw into the 
middle of the cake; if it comes out clean, the 
cake is done. Hold the pan to the ear; it 
should scarcely “sing." 

Line loaf-cake pans with buttered paper; 
fruit cakes need several thicknesses of the 
same. 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


11 


Do not use sour milk buttermilk, or any of 
the so-called prepared or self-raising flours. 

Weights and Measures 

1 cup, medium size . . A pint or A pound 

4 cups, medium size, of flour weigh 1 pound. 
1 pint flour weighs ... 

1 pint white sugar weighs . 

2 tablespoons of liquid weigh 
8 teaspoons of liquid weigh 
1 gill of liquid weighs . 

1 pint of liquid weighs . 


A pound. 
. 1 pound. 
. 1 ounce. 
. 1 ounce. 
. 4 ounces. 
. 16 ounces. 


Cakes Requiring More Than 
Four Eggs 

A NGEL FOOD CAKE. —Whites ll eggs, 
VA cups fine granulated sugar, 1 cup 
flour sifted four times with 1 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Whip the whites to a firm, stiff froth. Cut 
in lightly the sugar, then the flour mixed with 
the bakmg powder, lastly the vanilla. Pour 
into an ungreased pan and bake 40 minutes 
in moderate oven. When baked invert pan 
on 2 cups; let stand till cold. 

Bride’s Cake. —1 scant cup butter, 3 cups 
sugar, 1 cup milk, whites 12 eggs, 3 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup corn-starch, 3 
cups flour, A teaspoon salt. Cream butter and 
sugar. Mix flour, baking powder, and corn¬ 
starch, and add alternately with milk and 
whipped whites. Flavor with vanilla or 
almond extract and bake in loaf-tin lined 
with 4 thicknesses of paper; have oven 
moderate. 

Chocolate Cream Cake. —VA pounds each 
butter, sugar, and flour, 14 eggs. Beat the 
yolks separate with sugar and butter. Beat 
the whites separately, and add to above. 
To Vi of the dough mix A pound chocolate, 
and bake of each part (the dark and light) 
6 cakes. For filling take A pint cream, yolks 
8 eggs. Sugar to taste; flavor with extract 
vanilla, put on fire and stir until it thickens, 
then put between the cakes. 

Centennial Cake. —A pound butter, VA 
pounds brown sugar, 6 eggs, 2 cups milk, 1 A 
pounds flour, A teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, A pound cleaned cur¬ 
rants, A pound seeded raisins, A pound 
sliced citron, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 glass wine. 
Dredge fruit well with a little of the flour. 
Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream 
butter and sugar. Add beaten yolks, nutmeg, 
and wine. Beat in alternately the milk and 
flour, add whipped whites, and beat hard. 
Stir in prepared fruit. Line 2 loaf-pans with 
3 thicknesses of paper. Divide the batter 
between the pans and bake about 1 A hours 
in moderate oven. 

Cocoanut Loaf Cake. — A, cup butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 5 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 2 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, A teaspoon 
salt, 2 cups freshly grated cocoanut. Put 
together same as chocolate loaf cake, and 
bake in loaf-pan in moderate oven. 


Cocoanut Layer Cake. — A cup butter, 13^ 
cups sugar, whites 8 eggs, 2 A cups flour, A 
teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix flour, salt, 
and baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. 
Add vanilla, then, alternately, the flour and 
whipped whites. Beat hard; "bake in 3 layer- 
cake pans. When cold put together with 
cocoanut filling, No. 2 (see Fillings). 

Citron Cake. — VA cups butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, 1 pint flour, 1 cup citron cut in thin, 
large slices, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub 
the butter and sugar to a smooth, light cream, 
add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes 
after each addition. Sift the flour and powder 
together, which add to the butter, etc., with 
the citron and extract nutmeg. Mix into a 
firm batter, and bake carefully in paper-lined 
shallow, flat cake-pan, in a moderate oven, 
50 minutes. 

Cream Cakes (Eclaires & la Creme). —10 

eggs, A cup butter, A pound flour, 1 pint 
water. Set the water on the fire in a stew pan 
with the butter; as soon as it boils, stir in the 
sifted flour with a wooden spoon; stir vigor¬ 
ously until it leaves the bottom and sides of 
pan; remove from fire, beat in the eggs, 1 at 
a time. Place this batter in a pointed canvas 
bag having a nozzle at small end, press out 
the batter, in shape of fingers, on a greased 
tin, a little distance apart. Bake in steady 
oven 20 minutes. When cold, cut the sides 
and fill with following: 

PASTRY CREAM 

2 cups sugar, 1 y 2 pints milk, 3 large table¬ 
spoons corn-starch, yolks of 5 eggs, 1 table¬ 
spoon good butter, 2 teaspoons extract 
vanilla. Bring the milk to a boil; with the 
sugar add the starch dissolved in a little cold 
water; as soon as it reboils, take from the fire. 
Beat in the egg yolks. Return to the fire 2 
minutes to set the eggs. Add the extract and 
butter. Spread tops, when cold, with choco¬ 
late or vanilla icing. 

Cream Cake. — A cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 

1 A pints flour, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 cup milk. Rub the butter 
and sugar to a white, light cream. Add the 
eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after 
each addition Sift the flour with the powder, 
which add to the butter, etc., and the milk. 
Mix into rather thin batter, and bake in jelly- 
cake tins, well greased, in hot oven 15 minutes. 
When cold spread pastry cream between the 
layers, and ice the top with clear icing. (See 
Pastry Cream, above.) 

Currant Cake (English). — VA cups butter, 

2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, A cup citron, in small, thin slices, the 
rind of an orange, peeled very thin and cut 
in shreds, 2 cups currants, washed and picked, 
lA pints flour, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. 
Rub the butter and sugar to a white, light 
cream. Add the eggs. 2 at a time, beating 5 
minutes after each addition. Sift the flour 
and powder together. Add it to the butter, 
etc., with the citron, orange peel, currants, 
and the extract. Bake in a thickly paper- 
lined tin 1 hour and 25 minutes, in a moder¬ 
ate oven. 


ROYAL BAKING TOWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 



12 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Continental Fruit Cake. —1 pound butter, 
X pound sugar, 134 pounds flour, 1 cup cream, 
1 wine-glass each brandy and wine, 1 grated 
nutmeg, 1 teaspoon each mace and cloves, 2 
teaspoons cinnamon, 34 teaspoon salt, 8 eggs, 
% pound each raisins and currants, 34 pound 
shred citron. Put together as for centennial 
cake, and bake in 2 loaves in moderate oven, 
lining pans with 3 thicknesses of paper. 

Duchesse Cake. —I 34 cups butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon extract cin¬ 
namon. Rug the butter and sugar to a light 
cream. Add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 10 
minutes after each addition. Sift together 
flour and powder, add to the butter, etc., with 
the extract. Mix into a medium thick batter, 
and bake in small, shallow, square pans, 
lined with thin white paper, in a steady oven 
30 minutes. When they are taken from the 
oven, ice them. 

Dark Fruit Cake. —2 cups butter, 2 cups 
Sugar, 12 eggs, 4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, 34 teaspoon salt, 1 pound 
.currants, 1 pound sliced citron, 3 pounds 
Seeded raisins, 1 pound chopped figs, 34 cup 
.any kind of wine, 2 tablespoons strained lem¬ 
on juice, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 34 teaspoon 
each cloves and mace, 54 teaspoon each all¬ 
spice and nutmeg. Sift together flour, salt, 
baking powder, and spices. Dredge fruit 
thoroughly. Cream butter and sugar, add 
beaten yolks and lemon juice. Alternate 
flour and wine, add whipped whites, and beat 
for 10 minutes. Stir in prepared fruit. Line 
loaf-pans with 4 thicknesses paper; pour in 
batter. Bake in slow oven from 3 to 5 hours, 
covering pans with paper until % baked. 

Delicate Fruit Cake. —34 cup butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 1 cup milk, 234 cups flour, 34 teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
whites 5 eggs, 1 tablespoon grated lemon rind. 
Cream butter and sugar and mix dry ingre¬ 
dients. Add whipped whites, flour, and milk, 
and beat hard. To 5 tablespoons of this 
batter add spices to taste, and 1 cup raisins 
and J 4 cup sliced citron, and bake in 1 layer. 
Bake remainder of batter in 2 layer-pans. 
When cold put together with boiled icing 
having dark layer in center. 

Fig Cake. —134 cups sugar, 34 cup butter, 34 
cup sweet milk, 134 cups flour, 34 teaspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 34 cup 
corn-starch, whites 6 eggs. Put together as 
for corn-starch cake, and bake in 2 shallow 
oblong pans in a quick oven. Put together 
with fig filling (see Cake Fillings). 

Harrison Cake. —134 cup® sugar, 134 cups 
butter, 1 cup thick molasses mixed with 34 
teaspoon soda, 34 cup milk, 1 teaspoon each 
cinnamon and cloves. 5 eggs, 2 cups stoned 
raisins, 5 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder. Mix flour, spices, and baking 
powder. Cream butter and sugar Add mo¬ 
lasses, then beat in 34 of flour. Add milk and 
beaten yolks, add remainder of flour, then 
egg whites whipped stiff. Beat hard, and 
bake in a loaf-pan in moderate oven about 134 
hours. 


French Cake. —134 cups butter, 2 cup® 
sugar, 12 eggs, 1 quart flour, 34 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 gill each of cream, 
wine, and brandy, 20 drops each extract 
bitter almonds and nutmeg, 134 cups raisins, 
stoned, 34 cup almonds, blanched, 1 cup 
chopped citron. Rub butter and sugar to a 
white, light cream; add the eggs, 2 at a time, 
beating 10 minutes between the first 3 addi¬ 
tions, and 5 minutes between the rest; add 
the flour, sifted with the powder, raisins, al¬ 
monds, citron, extracts, cream, wine, and 
brandy. Mix into a smooth, consistent bat¬ 
ter; bake in a thickly paper-lined cake-pan 
in a steady oven, 2 hours. 

Gold Cake.—J4 cup butter, 1 cup su¬ 
gar, yolks 6 eggs, 2 cups flour, 34 teaspoon 
salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, grated rind and strained juice 1 large 
orange. Mix the dry ingredients. Cream the 
butter and sugar, add well-beaten yolks, or¬ 
ange rind and juice, and flour. Bake in shal¬ 
low pan in moderate oven, and ice with 
orange-water icing. Make silver cake at 
same time. 

Ice-cream Cake. —1 cup butter, 2 cup® 
sugar, 1 cup milk, 334 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, whites 8 eggs, 34 tea¬ 
spoon salt. Mix dry ingredients. Cream but¬ 
ter and sugar, add milk, then flour, and beat. 
Add whipped whites and beat again. Flavor 
with almond extract. Bake in three jelly-tins 
in hot oven, and when cold put together with 
boiled icing flavored with almond extract. 

Imperial Cake.—1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
5 eggs, 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind, 1 table¬ 
spoon lemon juice, 34 pound seeded raisins, 34 
cup sliced blanched almonds, 34 pound flour, 
34 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder. Mix dry ingredients. Cream butter 
and sugar. Add 1 whole egg and beat hard 
until incorporated. Stir in some of the flour. 
Alternate eggs and flour in same way until all 
the eggs are added, then beat hard lOminutes. 
Add lemon juice, almonds, and dredged 
raisins. Line loaf-pan with 3 thicknesses pa¬ 
per. Bake in moderate oven about 134 hours. 

Lady Cake.—134 cups butter, 3 cups sugar, 
whites 8 eggs, 1 pint flour, 34 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 cup milk, 20 drops extract 
bitter almonds. Rub the butter and sugar to 
a cream; add the flour sifted with the pow¬ 
der, milk, and extract; mix into a smooth 
batter; then gently mix the 8 egg whites, 
whipped to a dry froth; W T hen thoroughly 
mixed, put into a shallow cake-pan, papered, 
and bake carefully in steady oven 40 minutes. 
When cool, ice the bottom and sides with 
white icing. 

Lunch Cake (Boston). —2 cups butter, 2 
cups sugar, 134 pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, 6 eggs, 1 gill wine, 1 tea¬ 
spoon each extract rose, cinnamon, and nut¬ 
meg. Rub the butter and sugar to a very 
light cream; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beat¬ 
ing 5 minutes after each addition; add the 
flour sifted with the powder, wine, extracts; 
mix into a smooth batter, put into a thickly 
papered shallow cake-pan. and bake in mod¬ 
erate oven 134 hours. When cold, ice the 
bottom and sides with white icing. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


13 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Lemon Cake. —1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
7 eggs, 134 pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Rub 
to a light cream the butter and sugar; add the 
eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after 
each addition; add the flour, sifted with the 
powder, and the extract; mix into a medium 
batter; bake in paper-lined tin, in a moderate 
oven, 40 minutes. 

Lady Baltimore Cake. —Cream 34 pound of 
butter and 1 pound of sugar. Add the beaten 
yolks of 8 eggs and 34 pint of milk; then add 
1 pound of flour into which has been sifted 

4 teaspoons of Royal Baking Powder. Lastly 
add the beaten whites. Flavor with almond or 
vanilla extract, and bake in layers in a quick 
oven. 

FILLING FOR CAKE 

Boil 3 cups of powdered sugar and 34 cup 
of water until it spins a thread. Stir the 
boiling syrup into 4 whole eggs beaten to¬ 
gether. Mix with two cups of chopped 
raisins and 2 cups of chopped blanched 
almonds. Flavor with vanilla and spread 
between the layers. Finally make a white 
frosting and spread over the whole cake. 
Half of this receipt makes a fair sized cake. 

Orange Cake. —34 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 

5 eggs, 1 pint flour, 134 teaspoons Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, 1 teaspoon extract orange, 1 cup 
milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream; 
add the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes 
after each addition; add the flour sifted with 
the powder, the milk and extract; mix into 
a smooth, fine batter, put in a paper-lined 
cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven 30 
minutes. When cool, cover the top with the 
following preparation: Whip the whites of 3 
eggs to a dry froth; then carefully mix in 
4 cups sugar, the juice, grated rind, and soft 
pulp, free of white pith and seeds, of 2 sour 
oranges. 

Pound Cake. —134 cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 
7 eggs, 134 pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. Rub 
the butter and sugar to a white, light cream; 
add 3 of the eggs, 1 at a time, and the rest, 2 
at a time, beating 5 minutes after each addi¬ 
tion; add the flour, sifted with the powder; 
add the extract; mix into a smooth, medium 
batter, and bake in a paper-lined cake-tin, 
in a steady oven, 50 minutes. 

Pond-lily Cake. —1 cup butter, 1 y 2 cups 
sugar, whites 5 eggs, 1 )4 pints flour, 1)4 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk; 
flavor with extract peach and a few drops ex¬ 
tract rose. Bake in 2 cakes, in very deep 
jelly- or sponge-tins, and when done put to¬ 
gether with freshly grated cocoanut and pul¬ 
verized sugar between and on top of the cakes, 
and ice with clear icing. 

Silver Cake. —Whites 6 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 
cups sugar, % cup butter, 4 cups flour, tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
1 teaspoon almond extract. Cream butter 
and sugar; add alternately the milk and flour 
mixed with salt and baking powder; then the 
extract and the whipped whites. Beat well, 
and bake in loaf-pan in moderate oven. 


Queen Cake. —2 cups butter, 234 cups su¬ 
gar, 1 y 2 pints flour, 8 eggs, 34 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 wine-glass each wine, 
brandy, and cream, y teaspoon each extract 
nutmeg, rose, and lemon, 1 cup dried currants, 
washed and picked, 1 cup raisins, stoned and 
cut in two, 1 cup citron, cut in small, thin 
slices. Rub the butter and sugar to a very 
light cream; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beat¬ 
ing 5 minutes after each addition; add the 
flour, sifted with the powder, the raisins, 
currants, wine, brandy, cream, citron, and 
extracts; mix into a batter, and bake care¬ 
fully in a papered cake-tin, in a moderately 
steady oven, 1)4 hours. 

Sponge Cake. —2 cups sugar, 7 eggs, 1 cup 
flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pinch 
salt, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. Whip sugar 
and eggs together until thick and white; add 
flour, sifted with powder and salt, and the ex¬ 
tract; mix together quickly; bake in tin 
lined with buttered paper, in hot oven, 35 
minutes. 

Sponge Cake (Almond). —1 34 cups sugar, 8 
eggs, 134 cups flour, 34 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 teaspoon extract bitter almonds. 
Boil sugar in 134 gills water until, taking 
some up on end of spoon-handle and cooling 
in water, it breaks brittle, when at once pour 
it on the eggs, previously whipped 10 min¬ 
utes; continue the whipping 20 minutes 
longer; add flour, sifted with powder and 
extract; bake in well-buttered cake-mold, in 
quick oven, 30 minutes. 

Cream Sponge Cake. —6 eggs, their weight 
in powdered sugar, and 34 their weight in 
flour, 34 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 
pinch salt, grated rind 1 orange. Beat egg 
yolks and sugar till thick. Sift in the mixed 
flour, salt, and baking powder. Mix lightly, 
add orange rind and stiffly whipped whites. 
Cut them in lightly, and bake in 2 shallow 
pans in moderate oven. Put together with 
cream filling flavored with orange. 

Snow Cake. —1 pound arrowroot, 34 pound 
sugar, 1 cup butter, whites 6 eggs, 34 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon almond 
extract. Cream butter and sugar. Add 
whipped whites and 34 teaspoon salt, then the 
arrowroot mixed with baking powder. Beat 
well for 10 minutes; add extract, and bake in 
loaf-pan lined with 3 thicknesses paper. Have 
oven moderate, bake 134 hours, and cover pan 
with paper for first hour. 

Scotch Cake. —134 cups butter, 234 cups 
sugar, 8 eggs, 134 pints flour, 34 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, 3 cups raisins, stoned, 
1 tablespoon extract lemon. Rub butter and 
sugar to light, white cream; add eggs, 2 at a 
time, beating 5 minutes after each addition ; 
add flour sifted with powder, raisins, and ex¬ 
tract; mix into smooth batter; put into 
paper-lined square, shallow cake-pan; bake in 
moderate oven 1 hour. 

Wedding Fruit Cake. —1 pound flour, 1 
pound sugar, 1 pound butter, 2 pounds cur¬ 
rants, 1 pound raisins, 34 pound citron, 1 
ounce mace, 1 ounce cinnamon, 4 nutmegs, 1 
ounce cloves, 8 eggs, wine-glass brandy, 34 
ounce extract rose. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


14 THE ROYAL BAKER 

Washington Cake (St. Louis, 1780).—2 

cups butter, 3 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 2 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, 5 eggs, 1 cup 
milk, 1 cup stoned raisins, A cup washed and 
picked currants, A cup chopped citron, 1 tea¬ 
spoon each extract nutmeg and cinnamon. 
Rub butter and sugar to light, white cream; 
add beaten eggs gradually, the flour sifted 
with powder, milk, raisins, currants, citron, 
and extracts; mix into smooth, medium bat¬ 
ter; bake in shallow square cake-pan, in 
rather quick, steady oven, \A hours; when 
cold ice with white icing. 

Vanilla Cake. — IA cups butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 6 yolks eggs, 1 pint flour, IA tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup cream, 1 
teaspoon extract vanilla. Rub butter and 
sugar until very light and creamy; add egg 
yolks and cream, flour, sifted with powder, 
and extract; mix into smooth, rather firm 
batter; bake in shallow square pan, in fairly 
hot oven, 35 minutes. 

Wedding (or Bride) Cake. —4 cups butter, 
4 cups sugar, 10 eggs, 4 pints flour, 6 cups 
currants, washed, dried, and picked, 3 cups 
sultana raisins, 3 cups citron, A cup candied 
lemon peel, 2 cups almonds, blanched and 
cut in shreds, X A pint brandy, 2 teaspoons 
each nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, table¬ 
spoon each cloves and allspice. Prepare all 
these ingredients in following manner: Place 
butter and sugar in large bowl; break eggs 
into quart measure or pitcher; cover small 
waiter with clean sheet of paper; on it lay 
sifted flour, fruit, citron and lemon peel cut 
into shreds, the almonds and spices, with 
brandy measured at hand; also get ready 
large cake-tin by papering it inside with 
white paper and outside and bottom with 4 
or 5 thicknesses of coarse wrapping-paper, 
which can be tied on. Having thus prepared 
everything, and banked up fire to last, with 
addition from time to time of a shovel of coal, 
by which means you will not reduce oven 
heat, proceed to beat to very light cream the 
butter and sugar, adding eggs, 2 at a time, 
beating a little after each addition, until all 
are used; then put in contents of waiter all 
at once, with brandy; mix very thoroughly 
and smooth, put into prepared cake-tin, 
smooth over the top, put plenty of paper on 
to protect it; bake 8 hours, keeping oven 
steadily up to clear, moderate heat; watch 
carefully and you will produce a cake worthy 
of the occasion; remove.from oven very 
carefully, and suffer it to stay on tin until 
quite cold; next day ice it with thin coat of 
white icing, both top and sides; place in cool 
oven to dry the icing. Now spread a second 
coat of icing, which will prevent any crumbs 
or fruit being mixed up with the icing when 
you are icing to finish; now with broad 
knife proceed, when first coat is dry, to ice 
sides, then pour icing on center of cake, in 
quantity sufficient to reach the edges, wdien 
stop; decorate with vase of white, made 
flowers, etc., to taste. 

White Mountain Cake. — 1 cup butter, 3 
cups sugar, 1 pint flour, \ X A teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, whites 6 eggs, 1 cup milk, 20 
drops extract bitter almonds. Rub butter, 


AND PASTRY COOK 

and sugar to light, white cream; add the 6 
whites whipped to dry froth, the flour sifted 
with the powder, the milk, and extract; 
mix together thoroughly, but carefully, and 
bake in jelly-cake tins in a quick oven 15 
minutes; then arrange in layers with white 
icing and grated cocoanut mixed, in the 
proportion of 2 cups of former to 1 of latter. 

Wild Rose Cake. —Make the dough after 
the receipt given for pond-lily cake, flavoring 
with rose and strawberry instead of peach. 
Bake in 2-inch-deep jelly-tins, and sandwich 
with pink icing, and the same on top. (Made 
by substituting finely pulverized pink sugar 
for white.) When you have put the last 
layer of pink icing on top, sift very lightly 
over with granulated white sugar 

Cookies and Small Cakes 
Requiring More Than 
Four Eggs 

OYAL COOKIES. —1 cup butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 5 eggs, l A pints flour, A teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup milk. 
Mix butter, sugar, and eggs smooth; add 
flour sifted with powder, and milk; mix into 
dough, soft enough to handle conveniently; 
flour the board, roll out dough, thin; cut out 
with biscuit-cutter; lay on greased baking- 
tin, bake in hot oven 5 or 6 minutes. 

Anise-seed Cakes. —8 eggs, 1 pound sugar, 
1 scant pound flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, pinch salt, 1 tablespoon anise-seed. 
Beat eggs and sugar together 30 minutes, 
then add anise, flour mixed with powder, and 
roll out thin. Cut in fancy shapes and bake 
on flat tins in quick oven. 

Albert Cakes. —Yolks 6 eggs, white 1 egg, 

5 ounces sugar, 5A ounces blanched and 
chopped almonds, 3 ounces flour, A teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 ounce chopped can¬ 
died orange peel, A teaspoon extract cinna¬ 
mon, pinch cloves, grated rind A. lemon. Bake 
in small patty-pans in moderate oven. 

Buttercups. —2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup 
sugar, yolks 9 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, A cup 
milk, 3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder. Bake in patty-pans, ice with boiled 
icing, tinted yellow. 

Little Spice Cakes.—1 cup butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 5 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 tablespoon 
black coffee, A teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons 
cocoa, 1 teaspoon extract cinnamon, 1 tea¬ 
spoon extract nutmeg, 2 ounces corn-starch, 

1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der. Mix as for cakes with butter, and bake 
in patty-pans in a hot oven. 

Spencer Cakes. — 2 cups sugar, 8 eggs, 1 A 
pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 

2 tablespoons coriander-seed, 1 teaspoon ex¬ 
tract lemon.* Beat eggs and sugar together, 
until they get thick and white; add flour 
sifted with pow'der, the seed, and extract; 
mix into rather thick sponge; drop in spoon¬ 
fuls on greased tin, bake in hot oven 5 or 

6 minutes. 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


15 


Peanut Jumbles. — 1A cups butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 6 eggs, 1 A pints flour, A cup corn¬ 
starch, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 
teaspoon extract lemon, A cup chopped pea¬ 
nuts, mixed with A cup granulated sugar. 
Rub the butter and sugar smooth; add the 
beaten eggs, the flour, corn-starch, and pow¬ 
der, sifted together, and the extract; flour 
the board, roll out the dough rather thin, cut 
out with biscuit-cutter, roll in the chopped 
peanuts and sugar, lay on greased baking- 
tin; bake in rather hot oven 8 to 10 minutes. 

V» 

Cakes Requiring Four Eggs 
or Less 

DELAIDE CAKE.—1 cup butter, IA 
cups sugar, 4 eggs, 1 pint flour, 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup 
dried, stoned cherries, A cup cream, 1 tea¬ 
spoon extract vanilla. Rub butter and sugar 
to white, light cream; add eggs, 2 at a time, 
beating 5 minutes after each addition. Sift 
flour and powder together, add to butter, 
etc., with cherries, cream, and extract va¬ 
nilla. Mix smoothly and gently into rather 
firm batter. Bake in paper-lined cake-tin 40 
minutes in moderate, steady oven. Watch 
carefully; if getting too brown, protect with 
paper. 

Almond Cake. —A cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
4 eggs, l A cup almonds blanched—by pouring 
water on them until skins easily slip off—and 
cut in fine shreds, A teaspoon extract bitter 
almonds, 1 pint flour, l A teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 glass brandy, A, cup milk. 
Rub butter and sugar to smooth white cream; 
add eggs, 1 at a time, beating 3 or 4 minutes 
after each. Sift flour and powder together, 
add to butter, etc., with almonds, extract of 
bitter almonds, brandy, and milk; mix into 
smooth, medium batter, bake carefully in 
rather hot oven 20 minutes in a fluted mold. 

Apple Jelly Cake. —1 cup butter, 2 cups su¬ 
gar, 4 eggs, 3 cups flour, 1 A teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 cup milk, 6 apples, 6 ounces 
sugar, 1 teaspoon butter. Rub together but¬ 
ter and sugar to fine, light, white cream, add 
eggs 2 at a time, beating 10 minutes after each 
addition. Sift flour and Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der together, add to butter, etc., with milk, 
and mix into rather thin batter. Bake in 
jelly-cake tins carefully greased. Meanwhile 
have apples peeled and sliced, put on fire with 
sugar; when tender remove, rub through fine 
sieve, and add butter. When cold use to 
spread between layers. Cover cake plenti¬ 
fully with sugar sifted over top. 

Banana Cake.—H cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
A cup milk, 2 scant cups flour, 1 A teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, whites 4 eggs, A tea¬ 
spoon vanilla. Mix flour and baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar, add milk and flour 
alternately, then vanilla and beaten whites. 
Bake in 3 layer-tins in hot oven. To receipt 
for boiled icing (see Cake Fillings) add H cup 
mashed banana and use as filling. Dust top 
with powdered sugar. 


Chocolate Layer Cake. —2 eggs, 2 cups 
powdered sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 
scant teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, A tea¬ 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix flour, salt, 
and baking powder. Beat egg yolks till thick. 
Gradually add and beat in the sugar. Add 
vanilla and milk, whites whipped stiff, and 
flour. Bake in 3 layer-cake pans in hot oven. 
Put together with chocolate filling, No. 2 (see 
Cake Fillings). 

Chocolate Loaf Cake. — A cup butter, 1 A 
cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, A teaspoon salt, Yi cup milk, 
4 eggs, 4 ounces chocolate dissolved in 5 table¬ 
spoons boiling water, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix 
flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream butter 
and sugar, add egg yolks, vanilla, and dis¬ 
solved chocolate. Alternate the milk and 
flour and beat hard, then add whipped whites, 
turn into buttered loaf-pan lined with 3 
thicknesses of paper. Bake in moderate oven. 

Cinnamon Chocolate Cake. — A. cup butter, 
1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, A cup milk, 1A cups 
flour, 1A teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, A 
teaspoon salt, 3 teaspoons powdered cinna¬ 
mon. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. 
Cream butter and sugar. Add cinnamon and 
beaten yolks, then alternate milk and flour. 
Add whipped whites, beat hard, and bake in 
3 layer-pans in quick oven. When cold put 
together with boiled icing containing melted 
chocolate. 

Coffee Cake. — 1 cup very strong coffee, 1 
cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 eggs, \A pints 
flour, 13^ teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 
cup stoned raisins, cut in two, A cup chopped 
citron, 10 drops each extract allspice and nut¬ 
meg, and A cup milk. Rub the butter and 
sugar to a white cream; add the eggs, 1 at 
a time, beating 3 or 4 minutes after each. 
Sift together flour and powder, which add to 
the butter, etc., with the coffee, rasins, citron, 
milk, and extracts. Mix into a smooth batter. 
Bake in paper-lined cake-tin, in a hot oven, 
50 minutes. 

Coffee Cake, No. 2. — 1 cup brown sugar, 
1 cup butter, 2 eggs, H cup molasses, 1 cup 
strong coffee, A teaspoon soda dissolved in 
the molasses, 2 teaspoons powdered cinna¬ 
mon, 1 teaspoon cloves, A teaspoon salt, 1 
cup chopped raisins, 5 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder. Sift together the 
flour, salt, balang powder, and spices. Dredge 
raisins with some of the flour. Cream butter 
and sugar. Add beaten yolks and molasses, 
then alternate the coffee and flour; lastly 
beat in whipped whites. Divide into 2 loaves 
and bake in moderate oven. 

Light Fruit Cake. — A. cup butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 'A cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 A teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, whites 4 eggs, A cup 
seeded raisins, A cup sliced citron, A cup 
chopped blanched almonds, A teaspoon salt. 
Mix flour, baking powder, and salt. Dredge 
fruit with flour. Cream butter and sugar, 
add beaten whites, and beat hard; add flour 
and milk and beat again; stir in the prepared 
fruit. Line a loaf-pan with 3 thicknesses of 
paper, and bake cake 1 A hours in moderate 
oven, covering with paper for first hour. 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


16 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Cup Cake. —1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 
eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 3 
cups flour, 20 drops extract bittec almonds. 
Rub the butter and sugar to a cream. Add 
the eggs, 2 at a time, beating 5 minutes after 
each addition. Sift together the flour and 
powder, which add to the butter, etc., with 
the extract. Mix into a smooth, medium 
batter. Bake in well-greased cups or muffin- 
pans in a rather hot oven, 20 minutes. 

Currant Cake .—y cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 

3 eggs, K cup milk, 2 cups flour, y tea¬ 
spoon salt, iy teaspoons Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, 1 cup cleaned currants, 1 teaspoon va¬ 
nilla. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder, 
dredge the currants. Cream butter and 
sugar. Add beaten yolks and vanilla. Beat 
in flour and milk; add whipped whites and 
currants, and beat hard. Bake in shallow pan 
in moderately hot oven. 

Soft Gingerbread. — y cup butter, 2 cups 
molasses, 1 cup sugar, 4 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 

4 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 
ginger and cloves to taste. 

Geranium Cake. —y cup butter, 1 cup 
sugar, y z cup water, % teaspoon salt, 2 cups 
flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 
whites 4 eggs. Mix flour, salt, and baking 
powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add 
alternately the water and flour, then whites 
of eggs, and whip hard for 5 minutes. Line 
loaf-pan with buttered paper, then with rose- 
geranium leaves. Bake in a moderate oven. 
The leaves can be pulled off with the paper. 

Ginger Cake. —H cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
4 eggs, 1 y teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
1 y pints flour, 1 cup milk, 1 tablespoon ex¬ 
tract ginger. Rub the butter and sugar to a 
light cream; add the eggs, 2 at a time, beat¬ 
ing 5 minutes between; add the flour, sifted 
with the powder, the milk and extract; mix 
into a smooth batter; bake in a cake-tin, in 
rather hot oven, 40 minutes. 

Gingerbread. — 1 cup brown sugar and 3 
tablespoons butter, stirred to a cream; add 1 
cup New Orleans molasses, 2 eggs; mix well; 
stir dry 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder in 
2y cups flour, put in ginger or spice to taste, 
bake in 1 loaf 1 hour. 

Hazelnut Cake. —9 ounces flour, 4 ounces 
butter, 4 ounces sugar, 4 ounces chopped 
hazelnuts, 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, y tea¬ 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. 
Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream 
butter and sugar, add vanilla, chopped nuts, 
and beaten yolks. Add flour, then whipped 
whites, and beat well. Bake in shallow pan 
in medium oven, and when cold ice with 
boiled icing. 

Jelly Cake. —Beat 3 eggs well, whites and 
yolks separately; take a cup of fine white 
sugar and beat in well with yolks, and 1 cup 
sifted flour, stirred in gently; then stir in the 
whites a little at a time, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, and 1 tablespoon milk; pour 
into 3 jelly-cake plates and bake from 5 to 10 
minutes in a well-heated oven; when cold 
spread with currant jelly, place each layer on 
top of the other, and sift powdered sugar on 
top. 


Ginger Sponge Cake. —2 cups brown sugar, 

4 eggs, 1 pint flour, y cup water, 1 y tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon 
extract ginger, 1 teaspoon extract lemon. 
Beat the eggs and sugar together for 10 min¬ 
utes; add the water, the flour sifted with the 
powder, and the extracts; mix into a smooth 
sponge, and bake in quick oven 30 minutes. 

Honey Cake. —y cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
1 cup honey, 1 pint flour, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon caraway 
seeds. Mix the honey with the sugar; add 
the butter melted, the eggs slightly beaten, 
the flour, sifted with the powder, and the 
seeds; mix into a smooth batter of the con¬ 
sistency of sponge cake, and bake in a fairly 
hot oven 35 minutes. 

Rolled Jelly Cake. —4 eggs, % cup powdered 
sugar, y z cup pastry flour, y teaspoon salt, y 
teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Beat egg 
yolks and sugar till light. Add mixed dry in¬ 
gredients; then stiffly beaten whites. Mix 
lightly together. Bake in thin sheet in quick 
oven. As soon as done turn quickly on a 
towel wrung out of water, spread with jelly, 
roll up, and dust with powdered sugar. 

Lightning Cake. — 1 cup butter, 1 cup gran¬ 
ulated sugar, 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, y teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, grated rind 1 lemon. 
Mix flour and baking powder. Cream butter 
and sugar, add lemon and beaten eggs, add 
flour, and beat well. Spread 1 inch thick on 
flat buttered pans, sprinkle with a mixture of 
granulated sugar, powdered cinnamon, and 
few chopped almonds. Bake pale brown in 
hot oven, and when cold cut in squares. 

Marshmallow Cake. —1 egg, IK cups sugar, 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 
y teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder. Mix flour, salt, and baking powder. 
Cream butter, add y of sugar, and beat. Add 
beaten egg and remainder of sugar, and beat 4 
minutes. Add alternately flour and milk, 
beating well. Add vanilla and bake in layer- 
cake pans in quick oven. Cut fine K pound 
marshmallows. Spread them between cake 
layers, and stand in open oven till they melt. 

Peach-blossom Cake. — 1 cup pulverized 
sugar, y cup butter, stirred together until 
like thick cream, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, y cup sweet milk; beat the whites 
of 3 eggs, and add to a cup of flour, mixed 
with the baking powder; stir and add y tea¬ 
spoon corn-starch. Flavor strongly with ex¬ 
tract peach. Bake in 2 square sponge-tins 
in moderately quick oven, and when done 
sandwich with finely grated cocoanut and 
pink sugar. Frost with clear icing, and 
sprinkle this with pulverized pink sugar. 

Wine Cake. —1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 

2 cups flour, K teaspoon Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, 1 gill wine, 3 eggs. Rub butter and sugar 
to light cream, add eggs, 1 at a time, beating 

5 minutes after each addition; add flour 
sifted with powder, and wine; mix into 
medium, firm batter; bake in shallow square 
cake-pan, in moderate oven, 40 minutes; 
when taken from oven carefully ice with 
transparent icing. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


17 


Marbled Cake.— This is made in separate 
batters, a dark and a light one. For the dark 
one, take X A cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 
2A cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, yolks of 4 eggs, A cup milk, 1 teaspoon 
each extract cinnamon, cloves, and allspice. 
For the light one take A cup butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 2A cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, whites of 4 eggs, X A cup milk, 1 
teaspoon extract lemon. Both batters are 
made by rubbing the butter and sugar to a 
cream, adding the eggs, beating a few minutes, 
then adding the flour, sifted with the powder, 
the extracts and milk, and mixing into 
smooth batter, rather firm. Have a paper- 
lined tin: with a spoon drop the two batters 
alternately into it, and bake in a rather quick 
oven 35 minutes. 

Minnehaha Cake. —A cup butter, 1A cups 
sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2A cups flour, 2 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon va¬ 
nilla. Mix dry ingredients. Cream butter 
and sugar, add beaten yolks and vanilla, then, 
alternately, the milk and flour. Beat well, 
and bake in 3 layers in quick oven. Put to¬ 
gether with fruit filling (see Cake Fillings). 

Nut Cake. — A cup butter, 1 A cups sugar, 3 
eggs, 2 A cups flour, 1 A teaspoons Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, A cup milk, 1 cup of any meats 
of nuts preferred or at hand. Rub the butter 
and sugar to a light, white cream; add the 
eggs, beaten a little, then the flour, sifted with 
the powder; mix with the milk and nuts into 
a rather firm batter, and bake in a paper- 
lined tin, in a steady oven, 35 minutes. 

Molasses Cake. —1 cup butter, 1 cup 
brown sugar, A cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 1 A 
pints flour, 1 A teaspoons Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, 1 egg. Rub smooth the butter and sugar; 
add the milk, egg, and molasses; stir in flour, 
sifted with the powder; mix into a consis¬ 
tent batter, and bake in cake-tin 40 minutes. 

Spice Cake. —1 cup butter, 1 cup brown 
sugar, 1 pint flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 teaspoon each caraway and corian¬ 
der seeds, 1 teaspoon each extract nutmeg, 
cinnamon, and ginger, 1 cup milk. Sift flour, 
sugar, and powder together; rub in butter; 
add milk, seeds, and extracts; mix smooth 
into batter of medium thickness; fill greased 
patty-pans A full; bake in hot oven 8 or 10 
minutes. 

Delicate Spice Cake. —A cup melted but¬ 
ter, A cup sugar, 2 A cups flour, 1 egg, A cup 
molasses, 1 cup milk, 2 scant teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 table¬ 
spoon mixed ground spice, pinch salt. Beat 
egg, add milk. Add mixed, flour, baking pow¬ 
der and salt, spice, sugar, melted butter, 
molasses, and vinegar. Bake in two shallow 
pans in quick oven. 

Shrewsbury Cake. —1 cup butter, 3 cups 
sugar, 1 A pints flour, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon ex¬ 
tract rose. Rub butter and sugar to smooth, 
white cream; add eggs, 1 at a time, beating 5 
minutes after each; add flour, sifted with pow¬ 
der, and extract; mix into medium batter; 
bake in cake-mold, well and carefully greased, 
in quick oven, 40 minutes. 


Plain Sponge Cake. — 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 

1 cup flour, A teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 
pinch of salt. Beat yolks of eggs and mix A 
cup of sugar with them, beating together 
thoroughly. Beat whites until very stiff, 
add remaining half cup of sugar. When well 
mixed add the beaten yolks and sugar and 
tablespoon of lemon juice. Then lightly fold 
in the flour which has been thoroughly sifted 
with powder and salt. Bake in high pan, 
lined with buttered paper, in moderate oven, 
about 35 minutes. Do not open oven door 
for 5 minutes after putting in. 

Webster Cake. —1 cup butter, 3 cups sugar, 

2 eggs, 5 cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, 2 cups raisins, seeded, 1 teaspoon 
each extract bitter almonds and vanilla, 1 A 
cups milk. Rub butter, sugar, and eggs 
smooth; add flour sifted with powder, raisins, 
milk, and extracts; mix into medium batter; 
bake in cake-mold, in quick, steady oven, 45 
minutes. 

V* 

Cookies and Small Cakes 
Requiring Four Eggs 
or Less 

OFT COOKIES. —1 cup butter, 1 A cups 
sugar, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons milk, 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder, just enough 
flour to rollout to a soft dough. Sprinkle 
with sugar before rolling, cut in rounds, 
bake in quick oven. 

Cocoanut Cookies. — 1 cup butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup grated cocoanut, 1 tea¬ 
spoon vanilla, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, flour to roll out. Bake pale brown. 

Plain Cookies. — A cup butter, l A cups 
sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup water, 1 teaspoon 
grated nutmeg, 1 cup flour sifted with 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder, sufficient flour 
added to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut 
into cookies, and bake pale brown in moder¬ 
ate oven. 

Jumbles. — 1 cup butter, I cup sugar, 4 
eggs, 2 cups flour, A teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder. Rub together the butter and sugar; 
add the beaten eggs, and flour sifted with the 
powder; flour the board, roll out the dough 
rather thin, cut with jumble-cutter, or any 
you may have; roll in sugar, lay out on 
greased tin; bake in fairly hot oven 10 min¬ 
utes. 

Little Chocolate Cakes. —2 tablespoons 
butter, 1 cup sugar, A cup water, 1 A cups 
flour, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons grated choco¬ 
late melted over hot water, 1 teaspoon ex¬ 
tract vanilla. Put together as for cake with 
butter; bake in patty-pans in moderate oven. 

Oatmeal Cookies. — 1 egg, A cup sugar, A 
cup sweet cream, A cup milk, H cup fine oat¬ 
meal, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 teaspoon salt. Beat egg until light, 
add sugar, cream and milk, then these to oat¬ 
meal, flour, powder and salt mixed and sifted. 
Toss on a floured board, roll thin, cut in 
shape, bake in moderate oven. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


18 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Rice Cakes. — A cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 
eggs, l A cups rice flour, 1 A cups flour, 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder, A cup cream, 1 
teaspoon extract lemon. Beat the eggs and 
sugar together 10 minutes; add the butter, 
melted; sift together flour, rice flour, and the 
powder, which add to the eggs, etc., with the 
cream and the extract; mix into a thin batter, 
and bake in patty-pans, well greased, in a hot 
oven, 10 minutes. 

Cinnamon Cakes. —Whites 4 eggs, A cup 
sugar, 1 cup flour, A teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, 2 tablespoons cream, 1 teaspoon ex¬ 
tract cinnamon. Mix as for cakes without 
butter, and bake in patty-pans in a quick 
oven. Ice with water icing flavored with 
cinnamon extract. 

Drop Cakes. —1 cup butter, A cup sugar, 2 
eggs, 1 small teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 
1 pint flour, 1 cup washed and picked currants, 
1 teaspoon each extract nutmeg and lemon, A 
cup milk. Rub the butter and sugar to a 
white, light cream; add the eggs, beat 10 min¬ 
utes; add the flour and powder sifted to¬ 
gether, the milk .and extracts. Mix into a 
rather firm batter, and drop with a spoon on a 
greased baking-tin; bake in a quick oven 10 
minutes. 

Scotch Cakes. —1 pound flour, A pound 
butter, A teaspoon Roval Baking Powder, A 
cup granulated sugar, 1 teaspoon extract va¬ 
nilla. Mix flour and baking powder. Rub in 
butter as for biscuits, i Work in the sugar and 
flavoring. This gives a rather crumbly 
dough. Work with hands to make it adhere, 
pat out in cakes, sprinkle with caraway-seed. 
Bake in moderate oven. Very rich. 

Ginger Snaps. — A cup lard, A cup butter, 
1 large cup brown sugar, 1 cup water, 1 table¬ 
spoon extract ginger, 1 teaspoon each extract 
cinnamon and cloves, 1 quart flour, 1 A tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder. Rub to a 
smooth paste the lard, butter, and sugar; 
then rub it into the flour and powder sifted 
together. Mix into a firm dough with the 
water and extracts. Roll out the dough thin 
on a floured board, cut out with a round 
biscuit-cutter, and bake on greased pan, in a 
hot, steady oven, 8 minutes. 

Soft Gingerbread.—1 cup molasses, A cup 
sugar, A cup butter, H cup milk, 2 eggs, 1 
tablespoon ginger, 1 teaspoon allspice, 2 cups 
flour, 1 A teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. 
Bake in shallow pans or gem-pans in moder¬ 
ate oven. 

Delicious Little Cakes can be made by 
making a rich jumble-paste—rolling out in 
any desired shape; cut some paste in thick, 
narrow strips and lay around your cakes so as 
to form a deep, cup-like edge; place on a 
well-buttered tin and bake. When done, 
fill with iced fruit, prepared as follows: Take 
rich, ripe peaches (canned ones will do if fine 
and well drainedjrom all juice), cut in halves; 
plums, strawberries, pineapples cut in squares 
or small triangles, or any other available 
fruit, and dip in the white of an egg that has 
been very slightly beaten, and then in pul¬ 
verized sugar, and lay in the center of your 
cakes. 


Edenkobers.—2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, A pound 
almonds, pounded to paste, A pound chopped 
citron, A pound chopped candied lemon peel, 

2 tablespoons drained honey, 2 cups flour, A 
teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix to a 
paste, roll out, and cut in small cakes. Bake 
in moderate oven. 

Hermits. —3 eggs, 1 cup butter, 1 At cups 
sugar, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 tablespoons 
chopped citron, 1 teaspoon each extract 
cloves, allspice, and cinnamon, pinch of salt, 
1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, flour to 
roll out. Cut in rounds, bake in moderate 
oven. 

Spice Drop Cakes. —Yolks 3 eggs, A cup 
butter, 1 cup molasses, A cup milk, 3 cups 
flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
pinch of salt, spice to taste. Drop on buttered 
paper on tins, and bake in hot oven. 

Sand Tarts. —1 cup butter, 1 A cups sugar, 

3 eggs, 1 tablespoon water, A teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, flour to roll out. Cut in 
squares, sprinkle with granulated sugar and 
powdered cinnamon before baking in hot oven. 

Walnut Wafers. — }V 2 pound brown sugar, 
A pound broken walnut meats, 2 level table- 

r ons flour, A teaspoon Royal Baking Pow- 
, A teaspoon salt, 2 eggs. Drop small 
spoonfuls on buttered pans, bake in quick 
oven. 


Fillings and Icings for 
Cakes 

C USTARD.— 2 cups sugar, 3 cups milk, 
3 heaping tablespoons corn-starch, 
yolks 5 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tea¬ 
spoons extract vanilla. Scald milk in double 
boiler, add corn-starch dissolved in little cold 
milk, stir till smooth. Add sugar, cook 10 
minutes. Add egg yolks, cook 4 minutes, 
take off and add vanilla. 

Cream Filling, 1.—2 cups milk, 2 eggs, 3 
tablespoons corn-starch, 1 cup sugar, flavor¬ 
ing. Cook as above. 

Cream Filling, 2.—1 cup thick cream 
whipped to a solid froth, H cup powdered 
sugar, 1 teaspoon extract vanilla. Mix lightly 
together and use at once. 

Fig Filling .—A pound chopped figs, 2 
tablespoons sugar, 3 tablespoons boiling 
water, 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Cook in 
double boiler till thick enough. 

Orange Filling.—As lemon filling, using 
but X A cup sugar and oranges instead of lem¬ 
ons. 

Lemon Filling.—Grated rind 2 lemons, 
their strained juice, 2 cups sugar, whites 2 
eggs, 1 cup boiling water, 2 tablespoons flour 
mixed with cold water, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter. Cook together in double boiler, add¬ 
ing beaten whites last. 

Chocolate Filling .—A cake chocolate, 
grated, A. cup milk, yolk 1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 
teaspoon extract vanilla. Boil sugar, choco¬ 
late, and milk till thickened, add egg yolk, 
cook 2 minutes, take from fire, add vanilla. 


ROf Al BAKING powder is absolutely pure 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 19 


Chocolate Cream Filling .—y cake choco¬ 
late, grated, H cup milk, y cup sugar, 1 table¬ 
spoon butter, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon extract 
vanilla. Boil gently till thick. 

Cocoanut Filling. —To custard filling, add 
2 cups freshly grated cocoanut. 

Fruit Filling.—4 tablespoons finely chopped 
citron, same of chopped seeded raisins, y 2 
cup chopped blanched almonds, y pound 
chopped figs, whipped whites 3 eggs, V 2 cup 
sugar. Whip whites with sugar, add fruits, 
and beat well. 

Prune and Nut Filling. —Soak y pound 
large prunes over night. Steam until plump 
and soft. Remove pits. When cold add y 
cup chopped blanched almonds and stir into 
this whites 3 eggs, beaten stiff, with y cup 
powdered sugar. 

Almond Icing. —Whites 3 eggs, 1 pound 
Jordan (sweet) almonds, 3 cups sugar, 10 
drops extract rose. Pound to fine paste al¬ 
monds, with a little sugar; then add whites 
of eggs, lest of sugar, and extract; pound few 
minutes to thoroughly mix. Take up in bowl 
and use as directed. 

Clear Icing, for Cake. —Put 1 cup sugar 
in a bowl with a tablespoon lemon juice and 
whites of 2 eggs. Mix together smooth and 
pour over the cake; if the cake is not hot 
enough to dry it, place it in the mouth of a 
moderately warm oven. 

Transparent Icing. —Place 1 pound pulver¬ 
ized white sugar in saucepan with y pint 
water. Boil to consistency of mucilage, then 
rub sugar with wooden spatula against sides 
of pan until it assumes white, milky appear¬ 
ance. Stir in 2 tablespoons extract vanilla; 
mix well together. Pour this while hot over 
top of cake so as to completely cover it. 

Chocolate Transparent Icing. —Melt 3 
ounces fine chocolate with small quantity 
water in pan over fire (stirring constantly) 
until it becomes soft. Dilute this with y gill 
of syrup; work until perfectly smooth. Then 
add to boiled sugar as above. 

White Icing. —The whites of 4 eggs, 1 y 

{ rounds white sugar dust, the juice of y 
emon, y ounce extract rose. Place the whites 
and the sugar in a bowl with the juice and ex¬ 
tract. Beat with a wooden spoon until, let¬ 
ting some run from the spoon, it maintains 
the thread-like appearance for several min¬ 
utes, when use as directed. 

Bakers’ Soft Icing. —Boil 2 cups granulated 
sugar with 1 cup water without stirring till it 
ropes when dropped from fork. Take quickly 
from fire, let stand untouched till blood-warm. 
Beat till thick as soft dough, take in hands 
and knead till soft, smooth, and creamy. 
Pack in’covered glass and keep in cold place. 
To use, put some in bowl, set in hot water, 
stir constantly till soft enough to spread. 
Flavor and use. Will keep indefinitely. 

Boiled Icing. —Boil 1 cup granulated sugar 
with y cup water till it ropes when dropped 
from fork. Pour gradually over stiffly 
whipped whites of 2 eggs, beating hard. Add 
flavoring and use at once. 


Chocolate Water Icing. —Melt 3 ounces 
fine chocolate in a few spoons water until 
creamy. Boil 2 cup3 granulated sugar with 1 
cup water without stirring till it can be rolled 
in soft ball between fingers in cold water. 
Take from fire, stir for a moment till it be¬ 
comes slightly cloudy. Add chocolate and 
use at once on cake. 

Plain Icing. —Whip white 1 egg till frothy. 
Add 1 teaspoon cold water, then 1 tablespoon 
at a time, sufficient sifted confectioners’ sugar 
to make stiff enough to spread. Flavor as 
desired. 

Royal Icing. —Put whites 2 eggs in a bowl, 
add 1 tablespoon sifted confectioners’ sugar, 
beat 3 minutes. Add another tablespoon su¬ 
gar, beat again, continue till icing is very stiff 
and glossy, adding 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 
Spread on cake, let stand till dry. 

Water Icing. —To 2 tablespoons boiling 
water add enough confectioners’ sugar to 
make thick enough to spread. Add any 
flavoring desired. 

Maple Sugar Frosting. —Boil y 2 pound 
broken maple sugar with 3 tablespoons water 
till dissolved and thick enough to rope when 
dropped from fork. Pour gradually on 
whipped whites of 2 eggs. Beat till thick 
enough to spread. 

Marshmallow Frosting. —Heat 2 table¬ 
spoons milk and 6 tablespoons sugar over fire; 
boil 6 minutes without stirring. In double 
boiler heat y pound cut marshmallows. When 
very soft add 2 tablespoons boiling water, 
cook till smooth. Beat in hot sugar; keep 
beating till partly cool, add y teaspoon ex¬ 
tract vanilla. Use at once. 

Note.—A pinch of Royal Baking Powder 
added to sugar before boiling makes boiled 
frosting for cakes delicious and creamy. 

» V* 

Plain Cakes 

G erman apple cake.— i pint flour, 

ly teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, y 
teaspoon salt, mixed and sifted. Rub 
in 2 tablespoons butter, add 1 beaten egg, and 
milk to make very thick batter. Spread 1 
inch deep in greased shallow tin; have ready 
several pared, cored, and quartered apples. 
Press points into dough, sprinkle thickly with 
sugar mixed with little cinnamon. Bake in 
hot oven. 

Dutch Peach Cake. —Make a soft biscuit- 
dough with 1 quart flour, 2 tablespoons but¬ 
ter, y teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder, and sufficient cold milk to mix. 
Roll out % inch thick, lay on flat greased 
pans. Have ready some peaches pared and 
quartered. Press these into the top of the 
dough in rows. Sprinkle with granulated su¬ 
gar and bake in a quick oven. Cut in squares 
while hot. Apples may be used in same way. 

Triangles.—Prepare dough as for cinna¬ 
mon buns. Roll out, cut in strips, then in 3- 
comered pieces. Brush each with white of 
egg, press in center y lump sugar, surround 
with seeded raisins, and bake in hot oven. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


20 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Coffee Cake. —Mix through sieve 1 pint 
flour, A teaspoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, 2 tablespoons sugar. 
Rub in 2 tablespoons butter. Beat 2 eggs, 
add A cup milk, add more milk if necessary 
to mix to soft dough. Roll out 1 inch thick, 
sprinkle with 1 cup chopped dates, almonds, 
figs, mixed together. Roll little thinner, 
sprinkle with granulated sugar. Lay on 
greased shallow pan, bake in hot oven. 
Break in squares, serve hot. 

Tea Cakes.—3 cups flour, 1A teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, A teaspoon salt, % 
cup sugar, 3 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon 
caraway-seeds, milk to mix to soft biscuit- 
dough. Roll out A inch thick, cut in circles, 
and bake in flat pan in hot oven. 

Strudel Cakes.—Mix 1 quart flour, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Ba king Powder. Rub in 4 tablespoons 
butter, mix to soft dough with milk, roll out 
A inch thick. Have ready mixed 1 cup 
chopped almonds, A pound seedless raisins, 
A cup grated maple sugar. Cut dough in 2 
pieces. On 1 piece spread nut mixture, cover 
with other piece, roll together with pin. Cut 
in 4-inch squares, brush tops with milk, 
sprinkle with maple sugar, bake in quick oven. 

Bath Buns. —Mix and sift 1 quart flour, 2 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, y 2 teaspoon 
salt, A cup sugar, 1 teaspoon powdered cinna¬ 
mon. Add grated rind 1 lemon, A cup 
chopped citron. Rub in Yi cup butter. Beat 
6 egg yolks, add % cup milk, and mix all to 
soft dough, adding more milk if needed. 
Mold with the hands in round buns. Place 
1 inch apart on greased pans. Brush with 
milk, sprinkle with chopped citron, and bake 
in quick oven. 

Cinnamon Buns. —Sift together 1 pint 
flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, A teaspoon salt, 1 
heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. 
Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, mix with milk 
to soft dough. Roll out A inch thick, spread 
with soft butter, granulated sugar, and pow¬ 
dered cinnamon. Roll up like jelly roll, cut 
in inch slices, lay close together in greased 
pan, and bake in quick oven. 

Buchtels. —Prepare dough as for cinnamon 
buns, but take double quantity butter. Roll 
out A inch thick, cut in 4-inch squares with 
jagging-iron. In center of each place 2 
stewed and pitted prunes and pinch of grated 
lemon rind. Draw comers of dough together, 

inch Place close together in greased pan, 

rush with white of egg, sprinkle with granu¬ 
lated sugar, and bake in hot oven. 

Fruit Wheels. —Sift together 2 cups flour, 
1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, A 
teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar. Rub in 2 
large tablespoons butter. Mix to soft dough 
with milk; roll out A inch thick. Spread 
thickly with soft butter, dust with 1 teaspoon 
flour, 4 tablespoons granulated sugar, 1 tea¬ 
spoon cinnamon; sprinkle over A cup each of 
seeded and cut raisins, chopped citron, and 
cleaned currants. Roll up, cut in 1-inch 
slices, put 1 inch apart on greased flat pans, 
and bake in hot oven. 


Eccles Biscuit. —Sift together 1 pint flour, 
A teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder. Rub in 2 scant tablespoons butter. 
Mix to a soft dough with milk; roll out A 
inch thick. Have ready a mixture of A cup 
each chopped seeded raisins, citron, cleaned 
currants, finely chopped almonds or other 
nuts, 2 tablespoons granulated sugar, A tea¬ 
spoon cinnamon, A teaspoon allspice, pinch 
cloves, and just enough good sherry or brandy 
to moisten. Cut the dough in ovals. On each 
put a spoonful of the filling; brush edges 
with white of egg; fold over to make pointed 
oval cakes. Turn plain side up, press lightly 
to flatten. With sharp scissors make 3 short 
cuts across top. Sift over little powdered 
sugar, place well apart on greased pans, and 
bake in quick oven till pale brown. Good for 
lunch. 

Currant Loaf. —3 cups flour, A cup butter, 
A cup sugar, y 2 teaspoon salt, 1 cup cleaned 
currants, grated rind 1 lemon, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder. Mix dry ingredients, 
rub in butter, add currants and lemon rind, 
mix to a very thick drop batter with cold 
milk. Turn into well-greased loaf-pan, bake 
1 hour in moderate oven. 

Fruit Short Cakes 

T HE old-fashioned fruit short cakes were 
generally made with flour, soda, sour 
milk, and shortening, and were restricted 
to the strawberry season. We now use Royal 
Baking Powder for lightening them, and em¬ 
ploy all the fruits of the various seasons. The 
short cake made with Royal Baking Powder 
and sweet milk is incomparably better, surer, 
and more healthful than the old-fashioned 
concoction. Too much skill was required in 
combining soda and sour milk. The milk had 
to be at just the right stage of sourness; not a 
grain more of soda could be used than was 
sufficient to neutralize the acid in the milk 
or the cake would be yellow, with a disagree¬ 
able odor and soapy taste; if too little, the 
cake was heavy. But even the young or 
inexperienced housekeeper will find that with 
Royal Baking Powder a perfect short cake is 
an easy and agreeable task. The baking pow¬ 
der only needs to be thoroughly sifted with 
the flour, so that it may evenly lighten the 
cake. Use sweet milk always. For the best 
short cake no eggs are needed, the dough be¬ 
ing put together in the same way as for bak¬ 
ing powder biscuit. 

Throughout the summer fresh fruit of all 
kinds can be used. With cold weather substi¬ 
tutes are found in tropical fruits such as 
bananas and oranges, stewed fruits such as 
prunes, dried, and all varieties of canned 
fruits; but it is better to keep the fruit short 
cake for those seasons when ripe, fresh fruits 
are obtainable. 

The cake part for a fruit short cake may be 
made from any one of the following receipts: 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


21 


Short Cake. —1 quart flour, 1 teaspoon 
Balt, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 pint milk. Sift 
the flour, salt and powder together, rub in the 
butter cold, add the milk and mix into a 
smooth dough, just soft enough to handle ; or 
mix as directed in “Royal Hot Biscuit/’ 
Divide in half, roll out 34 inch thick to size of 
breakfast plates. Brush first layer with 
melted butter and lay them on greased baking 
tin. Bake in hot oven 20 minutes; separate 
the cakes without cutting. Bake in separate 
tins if liked more crusty. 

Short Cake, 2.—Cream 34 cup butter and 

1 cup sugar. Add 2 well-beaten eggs, 34 tea¬ 
spoon salt; then, alternately, 34 cup milk and 

2 cups flour in which is sifted 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder. Bake in layer-cake 
tins and use when cold. 

Apple Short Cake. —Pare, core, and cut 8 
sour apples into eighths. Put in earthen dish 
with 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon lemon 
juice, 34 cup sugar, and a pinch of cinnamon 
or nutmeg. Cover and bake in moderate oven 
till dark red and tender. When cold spread 
between layers of short cake and serve with 
plain or whipped cream or a cold boiled cus¬ 
tard. 

Blackberry Short Cake. —Wash and drain 
1 quart berries. Sweeten, spread between 
layers of short cake, and serve with cream 
or a cold custard. 

Strawberry or Raspberry Short Cake.— 

Pick, hull, wash, and drain berries. Sweeten, 
spread between layers of short cake. Garnish 
top layer with large whole berries, dust with 
sugar, and serve with cream or custard. 

Cherry Short Cake. —Make as for straw¬ 
berry short cake, using pitted sweet or tart 
cherries. 

Peach Short Cake. —Pare and slice peaches. 
Finish as for strawberry short cake. 

Banana Short Cake. —Peel and slice ba¬ 
nanas. Finish as for strawberry short cake. 

Canned Fruit Short Cake. —Any canned 
fruit, drained from syrup, may be used in 
place of fresh fruit, finishing as for other short 
cakes. 

Huckleberry Short Cake. —2 cups sugar, 
34 cup butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 pint milk, 2 
heaping teaspoons Royal Baking Powder 
sifted into 3 cups flour, 1 quart washed and 
well-drained huckleberries, more flour to 
make a very thick batter. Bake in greased 
dripping-pan, break in squares, serve hot 
with butter. 


Doughnuts and Crullers 

T HESE old-fashioned “fried cakes,” as 
they used to be called, need the addition 
of Royal Baking Powder to make them 
light. By its use less shortening is necessary 
and the cakes are more tender and far more 
digestible. After it is mixed with the flour 
the other ingredients are added and the dough 
quickly rolled out, cut, and at once cooked. 


The fat should be in a deep pot (to obviate 
any danger of boiling over), and should be of 
sufficient depth to cover the dough when first 
dropped in. It should be smoking hot, or the 
dough will absorb grease and be soggy. Not 
more than half a dozen should be dropped in 
at one time, or the fat will be unduly cooled 
and some of the cakes submerged during the 
entire cooking; in which case the cakes when 
cooked will be greasy and not light. One 
or two pieces of dough should be cooked first 
as testers. When done the cakes should be 
drained on unglazed paper, then rolled in pow¬ 
dered sugar. 

Doughnuts. —Beat well together 2 eggs and 
2 cups granulated sugar. Add 1 pint milk and 

1 quart flour in which are mixed and sifted 3 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon 
salt, and 1 grated nutmeg. Beat well, then 
add more flour to make a soft dough. Roll 
out 34 inch thick, cut in rings or small balls, 
and fry brown in a deep kettle of smoking-hot 
fat. 

Doughnuts, 2. —34 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
134 pints flour, 134 teaspoons Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 egg, 134 cups milk, 1 teaspoon ex¬ 
tract nutmeg. Rub the butter, sugar, and 
egg together smooth. Sift the flour and pow¬ 
der together, add it to the butter, the milk, 
etc. Mix into a soft dough; well flour the 
board, roll out the dough to 34 inch in thick¬ 
ness, cut out with large biscuit-cutter, and 
fry to a light brown in plenty of lard made 
hot for the purpose. Serve with sifted sugar 
over them. 

German Doughnuts. —Scald 1 pint milk, 
pour hot over 1 pint flour, and beat till 
smooth; add 34 teaspoon salt, and let cool. 
Add beaten yolks 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon melted 
butter, 1 teaspoon flavoring, 34 cup sugar, 
beaten whites of eggs, 1 cup flour mixed with 

2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and more 
flour to make a soft dough. Roll, cut, and 
fry. 

Puffball Doughnuts. —3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 
1 pint milk, 34 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon ex¬ 
tract vanilla, 2 heaping teaspoons Royal Bak¬ 
ing Powder sifted with 2 cups flour, more 
flour to make a thick batter in which spoon 
will stand upright. Drop by small spoonfuls 
in kettle of smoking-hot fat and fry brown. 

Crullers. —134 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 
eggs, 2 tablespoons butter, melted, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, 1 teaspoon powdered cinnamon, 34 
teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der mixed with 2 cups flour, more flour to 
make a soft dough. Roll out, cut in squares, 
cut slits in each with jagging-iron, and braid 
together. Fry in smoking-hot fat. 

Crullers, 2. — 1 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons 
butter, 1 cup cream, 3 cups flour mixed with 2 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, and 34 tea¬ 
spoon salt, adding enough flour to make soft 
dough. Roll out, cut in 2-inch squares, and 
slash with jagging-iron. Fry, drain, and roll 
in sugar. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


22 


Dutch Crullers. —2 eggs, 1 teaspoon grated 
nu tmeg, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cream, M teaspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, suffi¬ 
cient flour to mix to a soft dough. Roll out, 
cut in squares, cut several times in center 
with jagging-iron; fry brown in kettle of deep 
smoking-hot fat. 

Rye Drop Cakes. —1 heaping cup rye meal, 

1 heaping cup flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 table¬ 
spoons molasses, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs, 2)4 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder. Sift dry ma¬ 
terials together. Add milk, molasses, and 
beaten eggs. Drop by spoonf uls in deep smok¬ 
ing-hot fat. When brown drain on paper. 

Fried Cakes. — 2)4 cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, )4 cup milk, 14 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 eggs, 1 scant tablespoon melted 
butter, 5 tablespoons sugar. Sift dry ma¬ 
terials together. Add beaten eggs, milk, and 
melted butter. Drop by small spoonfuls in 
deep smoking-hot fat, fry brown, drain on 
unglazed paper. 

Wonders. —3 eggs, 3 tablespoons melted 
shortening, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder mixed with 1 cup flour. 
Add more flour to make stiff dough, roll very 
thin. Cut in 3-inch squares; in each cut sev¬ 
eral slits; run finger through and separate, 
then dent them. Fry and roll in sugar. 

Dumplings 

PPLE DUMPLINGS, ROYAL.—1 quart 
flour, thoroughly mix with it 3 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder and a 
small teaspoon salt; rub in a piece of butter 
or lard the size of an egg, and then add 1 
medium potato, grated in the flour; after the 
butter is well mixed, stir in milk and knead 
to the consistency of soft biscuit-dough; 
break off pieces of dough large enough to 
close over 4 quarters of an apple (or other 
fruit as desired) without rolling, lay in an 
earthen dish and steam until the fruit is ten¬ 
der. Serve with brandy sauce. 

Peach Dumplings.—Bring 1 cup water, 

2 tablespoons butter, to boiling point; turn in 
quickly 1 cup dry flour; stir till mixture 
draws away from sides of pan. Take from fire 
and cool. Work in 4 eggs, % cup flour mixed 
with )4 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, more 
flour if necessary to make a soft dough. Pat 
out in a cake, cut in rounds with a saucer. 
On each place a pared, unpitted peach. Draw 
dough round to cover the fruit. Place in 
greased pan, brush with milk, and bake 30 
minutes in moderate oven. Serve with clear 
sauce. 

Farina Dumplings. —1 quart milk, 10 

ounces farina, 3 eggs, 1)4 teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder, a tablespoon fresh butter, )4 
pound flour. Bring milk to a boil, stir in 
farina, and boil till well done, continually 
stirring. After cooling, stir in the melted 
butter and eggs previously beaten up, and 
last add flour sifted with baking powder and 
salt. Drop with tablespoon into lx>iling water, 
well salted; boil about 15 minutes till they 
rise; take out with skimmer and serve with 
fruit sauce. 


Berry Dumplings. —Use berries of any 
kind carefully picked, hulled or prepared, and 
make as for apple dumplings, putting 1 or 
2 tablespoons of berries in each dumpling. 

English Dumplings. —1 pint flour, 1 cup 
finely chopped suet, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder. Mix and sift 
flour, salt, and baking powder. Add suet; 
mix to firm dough with ice-water. Knead 
for 2 minutes; roll out )4 inch thick. Put a 
floured cloth over a bowl; on it spread the 
crust. Fill with sliced apples mixed with su¬ 
gar and a little powdered cinnamon. Draw 
up crust and cloth so as to completely cover 
apples; tie cloth, allowing a little room to 
swell. Drop in kettle of rapidly boiling water, 
with tnvet at bottom to prevent scorching. 
Keep at a rapid boil for 2 hours. If water 
stops boiling the dumpling will be heavy. 
Or place in steamer and steam 3 hours. Serve 
hot with cream and sugar or a liquid sauce. 

Receipts for making dumplings for a stew 
or fricassee frequently call for shortening. 
This is a mistake, and usually results in heavy, 
s °ggy dumplings. Heaviness may also be 
caused by a removal of the lid of pot or 
steamer before the dumplings are done. Flour, 
salt, Royal Baking Powder, and sweet milk 
are all that are needed to make tender, fluffy 
dumplings of this kind. The dry ingredients 
should be sifted carefully together, then 
quickly mixed with the milk. During the 
cooking the liquid in pot or steamer should be 
kept at a steady boil. No more batter or 
dough should be dropped in at one time than 
will cover the surface of the liquid or rest on 
top of the meat, for if too many dumplings are 
dropped in at once, those underneath are sure 
to be soggy. The cover should not be lifted 
until the dumplings are done. 

Dumplings for Soup.—1 cup flour, tea¬ 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 
sifted together. Add H cup finely chopped 
suet, and enough milk to make stiff dough. 
Make into dumplings size of marbles, drop 
into soup, cover, and boil 10 minutes. 

Suet Dumplings (Danish). —1 cup suet, 
chopped fine, 1 cup grated English muffins or 
bread, 1 cup flour, )4 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, )4 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk, large 
pinch salt. Sift together powder and flour, 
add beaten eggs, grated muffins, sugar, suet, 
end milk; form into smooth batter, which 
drop by tablespoons into pint boiling milk, 
three or four at a time; when done, dish and 
pour over them milk they were boiled in. 

Potato Dumplings.—1 dozen large pota¬ 
toes, 6 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs, 
salt, and nutmeg. Grate potatoes, which 
have been boiled and skinned the day before; 
mix with the flour, previously sifted together 
with baking powder, add the melted butter, 
and eggs one by one, and salt and nutmeg to 
taste; form into balls about size of a small 
apple, put into boiling water, which has been 
well salted, boil 15 minutes; take out with 
skimmer, and serve with any kind of fricassee 
or pot-roast. 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


Please Read the Following 


WHICH ARE FACTS 

Of Interest to Every Housekeeper 


T^ESIRING, as you do, the best and most healthful food, you will 
^ be interested in the following facts, which show why Royal is 
the best baking powder, why it makes the best and most wholesome 
food, and why its use has become almost universal — its sale greater 
in this country than the sale of all other cream of tartar baking 
powders combined. 

Royal Baking Powder NEVER fails in perfect work. 

It is absolutely pure and wholesome. 

It is combined from the most approved and healthful ingredients. 

It makes the finest flavored, light, tender, delicious and health¬ 
ful food. 

It has greater practical leavening strength than any other 
baking powder, and is therefore the most economical. 

It does not lose its strength, but will keep fresh and of full 
leavening power until used. 

It acts slowly in the dough, so that none of its strength is lost 
before the baking is completed. 

It makes food that will keep sweet, moist, and fresh longer, or 
that may be eaten hot and fresh without distressing results. 

IT ACTUALLY ADDS TO THE DIGESTIBILITY AND WHOLE¬ 
SOMENESS OF ALL FOODS INTO WHICH IT ENTERS. 

The reasons why Royal Baking Powder is superior to all others in 
these respects are easily, stated. One is because it is made from 
chemically pure materials; it is the only baking powder made from 
Royal Grape Cream of Tartar; it is made with greater care and 
accuracy. It is always uniform in composition and leavening power. 
All the knowledge and skill attained by more than a third of a century's 
experience is available in its present preparation. The consumer 
is not experimented upon by amateur manufacturers or unscientific 
mixtures of unknown strength and doubtful ingredients. Royal 
Baking Powder is always certain and equal in its work; a teaspoon¬ 
ful does the same perfect work to-dav that it did yesterday, or last 
week or month, or last year. 

While the last teaspoonful in a can of Royal is as good as the first, 
other powders lose their strength after being made a short time, and 
particularly after the can is opened. No baking powder except 

Be sure to demand ROYAL Baking Powder, made by the 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO., New York, U. S. A. 






Royal has its gas so fixed that its leavening power will be retained 
in all climates, dry or moist, hot or cold. 

The cream of tartar employed in Royal Baking Powder is abso¬ 
lutely without impurity or adulterant. Experiments that cost many 
hundred thousand dollars were made by the Royal Baking Powder 
Company to secure for its use chemically pure ingredients, and to 
devise methods and formulas that would make a perfect baking 
powder. 

These ingredients are refined in the mammoth works of the 
Company (erected at a cost of over half a million dollars) by special 
patented processes, by which means there are secured to Royal 
Baking Powder exclusively ingredients chemically pure. 

While there is no secret as to the ingredients used, the methods of 
their preparation, their relative proportions and the manufacturing 
details which are indispensable to produce a powder so perfect in all 
respects as Royal are unknown to or, because too expensive, un¬ 
employed by other manufacturers. 

The exactness with which the active principle of each ingredient 
prior to mixing is ascertained by expert chemists; the actual pro¬ 
hibition enforced against the receipt into the works of an impure 
ingredient; the care with which the materials are dried, coated, and 
prepared before their combination, and the precision in packing the 
powder so that it shall be delivered to the consumer in the perfect 
condition in which it leaves the factory, are some of the details never 
overlooked in its manufacture. 

Are not the same means employed by other manufacturers? They 
are not. Many have tried to imitate Royal Baking Powder, but have 
never equaled it. Pure materials are not employed by other manu¬ 
facturers, care is not taken in their preparation and combination, 
while in the great majority of baking powders alum is added to give 
them strength, while cheapening their cost. 

No alum, ammonia, phosphates, or unwholesome or doubtful 
substances are used in Royal, while the superior purity and fineness 
of its ingredients are shown by the fact that it costs more to manu¬ 
facture than any other brand. 

The great popularity and general use of the Royal Baking Powder 
attest its superiority. 

Scores of brands of baking powders have been placed upon the 
market since Royal was introduced. Most of these are forgotten; 
none has achieved a general success, while the Royal has increased 
in popularity until its use is general in every city, town, and hamlet 
in the country. It is likewise employed exclusively upon the great 
ocean steamships, and has come to be the leading baking powder 
in Great Britain, France, Germany, South Africa, and other foreign 
countries. Nothing but the great usefulness and superior qualities 
of Royal Baking Powder could have effected this. 

Be sure to demand ROYAL Baking Powder, made by the 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO., New York, U. S. A. 


Corroborative of the foregoing are the official tests. These have 
been made without prejudice, by absolutely unbiased officers, have 
been elaborate, exhaustive, and should be conclusive. Prof. Tucker, 
State chemist of New York, whose thorough and scientific work in 
examining articles of food for the State Board of Health is well 
known, says the Royal is a “ baking powder unequaled for purity, 
strength, and wholesomeness. ” The State chemists of Massachusetts, 
Ohio, Michigan, Iowa, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, California, etc., 
etc., indorse Royal as superior to all other similar preparations, while 
the United States Government investigation, made under the 
authority of Congress, shows the Royal to be a cream of tartar 
baking powder superior to all others in purity, wholesomeness, 
and leavening strength. 

The day has come for a rigid discrimination in the purchase of 
baking powders by the housekeepers. 

Health and economy demand the use of that brand ascertained 
absolutely pure and wholesome and of greatest efficiency. 

Those who have tested thoroughly the powders of the market, 
use Royal only. 

No other Article of Human Food has ever received such emphatic 
commendation for purity, strength, and wholesomeness, from the 
most eminent authorities, as the Royal Baking Powder. 


All Expert Cooks Use Royal Baking Powder 

Perfect and uniform success in making finest food is more certain 
with Royal Baking Powder than with any other. Use it in every 
receipt calling for a baking powder, or for cream of tartar and soda, 
or soda and sour milk, and the best results in pure, wholesome, 
appetizing food are assured. Experts use it because it adds to their 
success. Physicians and Health Officers recommend it because it 
adds to the wholesomeness of the food. 

Marion Harland: “I regard the Royal Baking Powder as the best in the market. 
It is an act of simple justice, and also a pleasure, to recommend it unqualifiedly to Amer¬ 
ican housewives.” 

Miss Maria Parloa: “It seems to me that the Royal Baking Powder is as good as 
any can be. I have used it a great deal and always with satisfaction.” 

Mrs. Baker, Principal of Washington, D. C., School of Cookery:, “I say to you, 
without hesitation, use the Royal. I have tried all, but the Royal is the most satis¬ 
factory.” 

A. Fortin, Chef, White House, for Presidents Arthur and Cleveland: “ I have tested 
many baking powders, but for finest food can use none but Roj'al.” 

Gustav Ferand, Chef of former Fifth Avenue Hotel, New York: “I use the Royal 
Baking Powder and find it superior.” 

F. Fere, Chef, Astor House, New York: “I have never found any equal to Royal 
Baking Powder. This is also the opinion of the principal chefs of the country.” 

P. Dedier, Chef, Arlington Hotel, Washington, D C: “I have long used Royal 
Baking Powder, always obtaining the best results.” 

A. Benzelin, Chef, Queen City Club, Cincinnati, O.: “I find nothing superior to Royal 
Baking Powder. It is without doubt the best.” 

L. Campagnon, Chef, Union League Club^Chicago, Ill.: “ Royal Baking Powder has 
been used here many years, all others havingbeen discarded.” 

G. Nauvel, Chef, Union Club, New York: “Royal Baking Powder is superior to all 
that I have tried.” 

Be sure to demand ROYAL Baking Powder, made by the 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO., New York, U. S. A. 



Louis Du Verdier, Chef, Leland’s Hotel, Chicago, Ill.: “We use exclusively Royal 
Baking Powder. I have tried many, but always return to the Royal.” 

Hotel Bellevue, Philadelphia: “ Royal Baking Powder is the best we have ever used. 
We have tested many brands, old and new, and this is our firm belief.’’ 

Alex. Muir, Chief Baker, Cunard Str. Lucania: “I have used Royal Baking Powder 
for twelve years. It is better than any other.” 

H. Beattie, Chief Baker, Am. Line Str. St. Louis: “ An experience of many years 
warrants me in saying there is no baking powder so good as Royal for use on shipboard. 
It keeps its strength and gives excellent results.” 

M. Hopkins, Chief Baker, White Star Str. Germanic: “Have used Royal Baking 
Powder (American made) for fifteen years. It is always reliable, keeps in perfect con¬ 
dition, and is the best of which I know.” 

W. Sutton, Chief Baker, American Line Steamship New York: “I have used many 
baking powders, afloat and ashore, for 25 years, but can find none equal to Royal. It 
is in front of everything ” 

United Cooks’ and Pastry Cooks’ Association of the United States: “ We recommend 
the Royal Baking Powder as superior to all others.” 


Do Not Use Alum Baking Powders 

The unanimous opinion of physicians, hygienists and chemists, 
who are disinterested, is that alum in food is deleterious. It adds 
unhealthful qualities to the food. It is conclusively proven that in 
food made with alum baking powders a part of the alum is carried to 
the stomach, where it acts injuriously or retards the digestion of the 
food. Alum powders may generally be distinguished by the price at 
which they are sold—10c., 20c., 25c. a pound, or lc. an ounce. They 
cost 2c. a lb. to make. In many States it is compulsory to state upon 
the labels of such baking powders that they contain alum. 

In selecting baking powder read the label and stubbornly 
refuse any brand whose label does not show the baking powder 
to be made from cream of tartar. 

Of the hundreds of opinions as to the deleterious character of alum 
baking powders, only a few can be given: 

Prof. Johnson, Yale University: “Alum in food must therefore act as a poison.” 

Prof. C. F. Chandler, Columbia University: “I am entirely opposed to the use of alum 
in baking powders and nothing would induce me to have it in my family. ” 

Edw. S.Wood, M. D., Prof, of Chemistry, Harvard Medical School: “I am very strongly 
of the opinion that the use of alum and salts of alumina in food should be prohibited.” 

Prof. R. F. Ruttan, M. D., McGill University, Montreal: “I am fully convinced that 
the products of the decomposition of alum in baking powders are injurious to health.” 

Prof. Geo. F. Barker, University of Pennsylvania: “I consider the use of alum 
baking powder highly injurious to health.” 

Prof. Prescott, University of Michigan: “The use of alum in baking powder should 
be prohibited by law.” 

Geo. M. Sternberg, Surgeon Gen., U. S. Army: “No alum powder is furnished to 
the Army by the Subsistence Department.” 

Charles Harrington, M. D., Prof, of Hygiene, Harvard Medical School: “It must be 
said that the result of scientific evidence is decidedly against the employment of alum in 
the making of bread.” 

John C. Wise, M. D., Medical Inspector, U. S. Navy: “ Alum baking powders produce 
a more indigestible bread. The injurious effect of alum on the stomach is positive and 
beyond dispute ” _ . 

Prof. Schweitzer, State University, Mo.: “Alum in baking powder is dangerous and 
should be restricted.” 

Prof. Tucker, State Chemist, New York: “The employment of alum in bread making 
is decidedly injurious.” 

M. K. Van Reypen, Surgeon Gen., U. S. Navy: “There can be no question that the 
alums entering into the composition of alum baking powders are seriously injurious to 
the system.” . 

Report of U. S. Congressional Investigation Committee on Food Adulteration: ‘ The 
committee, in view of the overwhelming mass of evidence antagonistic to the use of 
alum, recommends that its use in food products and baking powders be prohibited by 
law.” 

Be sure to demand ROYAL Baking Powder, made by the 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO., New York, U. S. A. 




23 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Egg Dumplings for Soup. —Beat 2 eggs, 
add y teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons milk. 
Sift 1 cup flour with 1 scant teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, add egg mixture, and more 
flour if necessary to make thick batter. Drop 
by half teaspoonfuls in boiling soup; cover, 
cook 10 minutes. 

Dumplings for Stews. —Mix and sift 1 pint 
flour, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, y 
teaspoon salt. Mix to soft dough with milk. 
Turn on board, roll out 1 inch thick, cut in 
small circles. Roll each in flour, drop on top 
simmering stew. Cover, cook 20 minutes 
without opening pot. 

Suet Dumplings. — 1 cup bread crumbs, 2 
tablespoons finely chopped beef suet, whites 
and yolks 2 eggs beaten separately, y tea¬ 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder 
sifted with 1 cup flour, sufficient milk to mix 
to stiff paste. Flour hands and make into 
balls. Wring small cloths in hot water, dust 
with flour, lay ball in each and tie, leaving 
room to swell. Cook in rapidly boiling water 
45 minutes, and serve with liquid sauce (see 
Sauces''. 

Puddings 

A PPLE AMBER. —Cover bottom of bak¬ 
ing dish with water about y inch deep; 
pare and slice rather tart apples quite 
thin, lay slices in dish with sugar sprinkled 
between layers, filling dish to within an inch 
of top, finishing by a sprinkling of sugar and 
bits of butter dotted over. Bake in moderate 
oven till apples can be pierced with broom 
straw. Leave in dish and serve cold with 
whipped cream or boiled custard. This is 
much more delicate than the usual apple 
sauce. 

Apple Pudding. —12 or 14 apples, peeled, 
cored and sliced, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg, 
1 y cups sugar. Pack apples in deep earthen¬ 
ware dish, add sugar, y cup water with ex¬ 
tract. Cover with paste made from Short 
Cake No. 1 receipt. Pinch closely to edge 
of dish with thumb or pastry iron. Bake In 
a moderate oven; serve with rich cream. 

Batter Pudding (with Fruit). —1 cup 
flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, pint 
milk, 4 eggs, 2 cups any kind of fruit pre¬ 
pared as usual, ly cups sugar. Sift flour, 
sugar, and powder together, add eggs, beaten, 
milk, and fruit; pour into well-buttered 
pudding-dish, bake in quick oven 40 min¬ 
utes; serve with wine sauce. 

Batter Pudding (Boiled). — ly cups flour, 
1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, y tea¬ 
spoon salt, 1 tablespoon butter, 10 drops ex¬ 
tract nutmeg, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Sift flour, 
salt, and powder together; rub in butter 
cold; add eggs, beaten, and milk; mix into 
batter as for muffins; pour into well-buttered 
mold; set in saucepan with boiling water H 
up sides of mold; steam one hour, and serve 
with spice sauce. 

Blackberry or Cherry Pudding. —Proceed 
as for Batter Pudding (boiled) and serve with 
hard or foaming sauce. 


Apple Tapioca Pudding. —Pare and core 
enough apples to fill dish; put into each ap¬ 
ple bit of lemon peel. Soak y pint tapioca 
in 1 quart lukewarm water 1 hour, add a lit¬ 
tle salt; flavor with lemon; pour over apples. 
Bake until apples are tender. Serve cold 
with cream and sugar. 

Boston Baked Plum Pudding.— ly cups 
beef suet, freed of skin, chopped very fine, 
ly cups raisins, stoned, ly cups currants, 
washed and picked, 1 cup brown sugar, 2 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 
4 eggs, 1 cup milk, y cup citron, chopped, 
pinch salt, 1 tablespoon extract nutmeg, 1 
glass brandy. Put all these ingredients in a 
bowl, eggs as they drop from the shell, flour 
sifted with powder and brandy; mix into 
rather short batter; pour into well-buttered 
clean cake-tin, bake in steady oven 2 hours; 
serve with vanilla sauce. 

Bread Pudding.—1 pint milk, 1 cup fine 
bread crumbs always stale and dry, 2 eggs, 
1 tablespoon melted butter, nutmeg to taste, 
1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder. Soak 
bread crumbs in milk till soft, beat yolks 
very light, and add, stirring well together; 
add butter and seasoning with baking pow¬ 
der well stirred in, lastly add the beaten 
whites. Bake at once to a fine brown and 
eat hot with any desired sweet sauce. This 
is a delicious form of the much abused bread 
pudding. 

Cabinet Pudding.— y pound stale sponge 
cake, y cup raisins, y can peaches, 4 eggs, 
1 y pints milk. Butter plain oval mold; lay 
in some stale cake, y of the raisins, stoned, 
y of peaches; make two layers of remainder 
of cake, raisins, and peaches; cover with 
very thin slice of bread; then pour over milk 
beaten with eggs and sugar; set in saucepan 
with boiling water to reach % up sides of 
mold, steam it % hour, turn out carefully on 
dish, and serve with peach sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. —1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
milk, 1 egg, lump butter size of egg, 1 pint 
flour, salt, 1 heaping teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder. Sauce. —1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 tea¬ 
spoon flour, small piece of butter, mixed. 
Add boiling water, let come to boil, flavor 
with extract vanilla. 

Chocolate Pudding. — 1 quart milk, 
scalded; iy squares chocolate, grated; wet 
with cold milk, and stir into scalded milk. 
When chocolate is dissolved, pour into pud¬ 
ding-dish; add yolks of 6 eggs, well beaten, 
and 6 tablespoons sugar. Bake about M 
hour. Beat whites of eggs to stiff froth; add 
6 tablespoons sugar. Spread the frosting 
over top; set again in oven until a light 
brown. 

Graham Pudding. — y pint molasses, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 1 egg, a little salt, 2 cups 
Graham flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup seeded raisins 
or other dry fruit—chopped dates are good. 
Sift flour, salt and powder together, mix 
beaten egg and molasses with milk; then stir 
the two together, adding fruit last, beating 
thoroughly. Steam 2,y hours; serve hot with 
good rich wine sauce. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


24 


Cherry Pudding.— 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, A 
teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
1A cups flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Pow¬ 
der, pinch salt. Mix in order given, turn into 
shallow greased pan. Over top put 2 pounds 
cherries, press into the batter, sprinkle with 
3 tablespoons granulated sugar. Bake 30 
minutes in moderate oven, serve hot with 
cream and sugar. 

Fig Pudding.— y 2 pound good dried figs, 
washed, wiped, and minced; 2 cups fine dry 
bread crumbs, 3 eggs, A. cup beef suet, pow¬ 
dered; 2 scant cups sweet milk, y 2 cup white 
sugar, in which 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder has been mixed, little salt. Soak the 
crumbs in milk, add eggs, beaten light with 
sugar, salt, suet, and figs. Beat 3 minutes; put 
in buttered mold with tight top, set in boiling 
water with weight on cover to prevent mold 
from upsetting, and boil 3 hours. Eat hot 
with hard sauce made of butter, powdered 
sugar, 1 teaspoon extract nutmeg. 

Fruit Pudding (for Fresh, Small Fruits).— 
1 pint flour, \y 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Pow- 
der, A teaspoon salt; sift together flour, salt 
and powder; mix with it enough milk, or milk 
and water, to make dough soft enough to 
drop from spoon. Have ready well-buttered 
earthen baking cups ; fill about A full of blue¬ 
berries, pitted cherries or other small fruit; 
fill cup within one inch of brim with dough; 
set in steamer over boiling water, cover tight¬ 
ly and cook 20 minutes, keeping water in pot 
boiling constantly. Serve hot with hard or 
foaming sauce. 

Indian Pudding. —1 quart scalded milk, A 
cup com meal, 1 teaspoon salt, y 2 cup chopped 
suet, 1 tablespoon ginger (ginger may be 
omitted if not liked), A cup molasses—not 
syrup. Pour milk slowly on meal, stirring 
constantly to avoid lumps; add molasses, salt, 
and ginge r. Cook in double boiler 20 minutes. 
When cold add suet; beat well to mix ingre¬ 
dients. Pour into buttered pudding-dish and 
bake two hours in slow oven. If baked too 
rapidly it will not “whey,” which is the dis¬ 
tinction of the genuine old-fashioned Indian 
nd ding . Cover for first hour of baking, 
erve with cream. 

Raisin Pudding.—1 cup finely chopped 
suet, y 2 cup sugar, 2 eggs, y 2 cup milk, 1 cup 
entire wheat flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 cup floured raisins. Steam 3 hours. 
Serve with liquid sauce. 

Lemon Pudding. —1 cup sugar, 4 eggs, 2 
tablespoons corn-starch, 2 lemons, juice of 
both, grated rind of one, 1 pint milk, 1 table¬ 
spoon butter. Heat the milk to boiling, stir 
in com-starch, wet with few spoonfuls of cold 
water. Boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. 
While hot mix in the butter and set away to 
cool. Beat the yolks light, add the sugar, 
mixing very thoroughly before putting in the 
lemon juice and grated rind. Beat this to a 
stiff cream and add gradually to the com- 
starch milk when latter is cold. Stir all 
smooth, put in buttered pudding-dish and 
bake until firm. Cover when done with 
meringue of whites of eggs. To be eaten 
cold. Serve with wafers. 


Lemon Suet Pudding. —3 cups stale bread, 
1 cup suet, y 2 cup sugar, mixed with 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder, 4 eggs, 1 table¬ 
spoon extract lemon, 1A pints milk, pinch 
salt. Grate bread, chop suet, freed of skin, 
very fine, put them in bowl; add sugar, eggs, 
beaten, salt, and extract; pour over boiling 
milk, stirring it the while; let it stand 30 min¬ 
utes, covered, then pour into well-buttered 
pudding-dish; bake in moderate oven 40 min¬ 
utes; serve with sugar sauce. 

Peach Cottage Pudding. —Make a batter 
with y 2 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons melted but¬ 
ter, 1 beaten egg, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, l A 
teaspoons Royal Baking Powder. Stir in 2 
cups sliced peaches, bake in a loaf and serv e 
with hard sauce. 

Fine Peach Pudding. —Fill pudding-dish 
with whole peeled peaches, pour over 1 pint 
water, cover, and bake till peaches are tender. 
Drain off juice and let cool. Add to it 2 cups 
milk, 4 beaten eggs, 1 scant cup flour mixed 
with 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 tablespoon melted butter, pinch salt. 
Beat hard 4 minutes, pour over peaches in 
dish, bake to rich brown and serve with cream. 

Suet Pudding. —2 eggs, 1 cup milk, A cup 
molasses, y 2 cup finely chopped suet, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, 2 teaspoons Royal Baking Powder, 
3 scant cups flour, spices to taste, and 1 cup 
mixed chopped fruit—raisins, citron, cur¬ 
rants, or almonds. Steam 2 hours and serve 
with a soft sauce. 

“Poor Man’s Pudding.” — y 2 cup suet, 
chopped, A cup seeded raisins, y 2 cup cur¬ 
rants, washed and picked, 1 A cups grated 
bread, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, A cup brown sugar, 1 pint milk. Mix 
all well together, put into well-greased mold, 
set in saucepan with boiling water to reach 
A up sides of mold; steam 2 hours; turnout 
on dish carefully; serve with butter and 
sugar. 

Princess Pudding. —A cup butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 large cup flour, 3 eggs, y 2 teaspoon 
Royal Baking Powder, small glass brandy. 
Rub to smooth cream butter and sugar; add 
eggs, 1 at a time, beating few minutes after 
each addition; add flour sifted with powder, 
and brandy; put into mold well buttered, set 
in saucepan with boiling water to reach A up 
its sides; steam thus 1A hours; turn out on 
dish carefully; serve with lemon sauce. 

Plum Pudding (Royal Christmas). —2 cups 
raisins, 2 cups currants, 2 cups suet, y 2 cup 
almonds, blanched, 2 cups flour, 2 cups grated 
bread, A cup each citron, orange, and lemon 
peels, 8 eggs, 1 cup sugar, A cup cream, 1 gill 
each wine and brandy, large pinch salt, 1 ta¬ 
blespoon extract nutmeg, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder. Put in large bowl raisins, 
seeded, currants, washed and picked, suet, 
chopped very fine, almonds, cut fine, citron, 
orange, and lemon peels, chopped, sugar, wine, 
brandy, and cream; lastly, add flour, siftea 
with powder; mix all well together, put in 
large, well-buttered mold; set in saucepan 
with boiling water to reach A up sides of 
mold, steam thus 5 hours; turn out on dish 
carefully; serve with Royal wine sauce. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


25 


Plum Pudding, 2.—134 cups each grated 
bread, very finely chopped suet, raisins, 
seeded, currants, washed and picked, and 
coffee sugar, 34 cup each citron, milk, and 
orange marmalade, 4 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon each 
extract cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. Mix 
all these ingredients well together in large 
bowl, put in well-buttered mold, set in sauce¬ 
pan with boiling water to reach 34 up its sides; 
steam thus 3)4 hours; turn out carefully on 
dish, and serve with Royal wine sauce. 

Raisin Roly Poly. —2 cups flour, 34 teaspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, sifted 
together. Rub in 2 tablespoons butter, mix 
with milk to soft dough, roll out 34 inch thick. 
Spread with a little soft butter. Sprinkle 
thickly with seeded raisins, then with 2 table¬ 
spoons granulated sugar. Roll up, pinch ends 
together, lay on buttered pie-plate, and steam 
30 minutes. Dry off in oven 10 minutes. 
Serve with creamy or liquid sauce. 

Rice Pudding. —34 cup rice, 134 pints milk, 
34 cup sugar, large pinch salt, 1 tablespoon 
lemon rind chopped fine. Put rice, washed 
and picked, sugar, salt, and milk in quart 
pudding-dish; bake in moderate oven 2 hours, 
stirring frequently first 134 hours, then permit 
it to finish cooking with light-colored crust, 
disturbing it no more. Eat cold with cream. 

Rice Pudding, 2. —34 cup rice, M pint milk, 
4 apples, peeled, cored, and stewed, 34 cup 
sugar, 4 eggs. Boil rice in milk until reduced 
to pulp; beat well with apple sauce and 
sugar for 10 minutes, then set aside to cool; 
then carefully mix in whites of eggs, whipped 
to stiff froth, butter the mold, pour in pud¬ 
ding, set in saucepan with boiling water to 
reach 34 up its sides; steam slowly for 25 min¬ 
utes; permit it to stand 3 minutes before 
turning out; serve with custard sauce. 

Sago Pudding. —1 quart milk, 4 table¬ 
spoons sago boiled in the milk till soft; set 
dish in kettle of hot water, and let sago swell 
gradually. Beat up 3 eggs, and stir into 
cooked milk and sago; salt and sugar to 
taste. Then put in oven and bake very 
lightly. Serve with creamy sauce. 

Tapioca Pudding. — 1 small cup tapioca, 1 
quart milk, 1 teaspoon butter, 3 tablespoons 
sugar. Soak tapioca in water 4 or 5 hours, 
then add the milk; flavor with extract lemon, 
or anything else you prefer. Bake slowly 1 
hour. To be made day before it is wanted, 
and eaten cold with cream or milk and sugar. 
Some prefer the pudding made with 3 pints 
milk and no water. 

Tapioca and Cocoanut Pudding. — 1 cup 

tapioca soaked overnight, 1 quart milk, yolks 
4 eggs, whites of 2,1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons 
grated cocoanut; bake 34 hour. Make frost¬ 
ing of whites 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 
tablespoons grated cocoanut; spread over 
pudding when baked. Set in oven until a 
light brown. 

Souffld of Different Fruits. —With fruits 
of a soft and juicy nature, such as peaches, 
plums, apricots, bananas, etc., proceed in this 
manner: Remove the kernels and press the 


fruit through a sieve; put what you have 
thus obtained in a bowl, adding 34 pound pow¬ 
dered sugar and the whites of 3 eggs ; beat 
well with an egg-beater for 5 or 6 minutes. 
Then take the whites of 6 or 7 eggs and beat 
them into a stiff froth; mix well together. 
Put this on a dish in a well-heated oven 0 or 6 
minutes before serving. Sprinkle powdered 
sugar on top. For hard fruits, such as apples, 
pears, etc., cook them first and then press 
through a sieve. The treatment is exactly 
the same as for the others. 

V* 

Sauces for Puddings, Etc. 

ANNED FRUIT SAUCE.— Take the 
syrup from any canned fruit, add suffi¬ 
cient sugar to sweeten, and an equal 
quantity of boiling water. Measure, and for 
1 pint thicken with 1 tablespoon arrowroot 
blended in a little water. Boil 10 minutes; 
add 1 tablespoon butter and stir till melted. 

Currant Jelly Sauce. —Melt 1 cup red- 
currant jelly, add 1 glass white wine, and 

1 teaspoon extract raspberry. 

Currant Jelly Sauce, 2.—Cream 2 table¬ 
spoons butter; add gradually % cup stiff cur¬ 
rant jelly slightly softened by standing in 
warm room. Beat well and serve very cold. 

Cream Sauce. —Bring % pint cream slowly 
to boil; set in stewpan boiling water; when it 
reaches boiling point add sugar, then pour 
slowly on whipped whites of 2 eggs in bowl; 
add 1 teaspoon extract vanilla and use. 

Creamy Sauce. —Cream 2 tablespoons but¬ 
ter; beat in by degrees 34 cup powdered sugar, 

2 tablespoons each of thick cream and sherry. 
Beat long and hard. Just before serving 
stand bowl over hot water and beat till sauce 
looks creamy but is not hot enough to melt 
the butter. 

Custard Sauce. — 1 pint milk, yolks 4 eggs, 
34 cup sugar. Set over fire and stir until thick. 

Duchesse Sauce. —Boil 2 ounces grated 
chocolate in 34 pint milk 5 minutes; strain 
on 2 yolks of eggs beaten with 34 gill cream 
and 34 cup sugar; strain, return to fire, stir 
until thick as honey; remove and add 1 tea¬ 
spoon extract vanilla. 

Foaming Sauce. —Whip white 1 egg and 34 
cup powdered sugar to a stiff froth. Whip 
separately 1 cup thick cream to a solid froth. 
Mix lightly together, flavor with 1 tablespoon 
sherry. 

Hard Sauce. —Beat 1 cup sugar and 34 cup 
butter to white cream; add whites 2 eggs; 
beat few minutes longer; add tablespoon 
brandy and teaspoon extract nutmeg; put on 
ice until needed. 

Golden Sauce. —Make hard sauce as above 
without egg whites or flavoring. Beat in 
gradually the yolks of 2 raw eggs and add 
flavoring to suit. The color may be accentu¬ 
ated by the addition of a little yellow color- 
paste. 

Orange Sauce. —To golden sauce made as 
above add the grated yellow rind and 1 table¬ 
spoon of the juice of an orange. 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


26 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Hygienic Cream Sauce.— A. pint milk, y 
pint cream, yolk 1 egg, 1 tablespoon buck¬ 
wheat dissolved in little milk, large pinch salt. 
Bring milk and cream to boil in thick, well- 
lined saucepan; add to it buckwheat dis¬ 
solved in milk, stirring rapidly to prevent 
lumping; allow it to boil 5 minutes; remove 
from fire, beat in the yolk of egg diluted with 
a tablespoon milk. 

Lemon Sauce.—Boil 1 cup sugar and 1 cup 
water together 15 minutes, then remove; 
when cooled a little, add A teaspoon extract 
lemon and 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

Molasses Sauce.—Boil together 10 min¬ 
utes 1 cup molasses, 1 tablespoon vinegar, 1 
tablespoon butter, pinch salt. For apple 
puddings. 

Rexford Sauce.—Dissolve 1 teaspoon corn¬ 
starch in little water; add it to 1 cup boiling 
water, with % cup brown sugar; boil 10 min¬ 
utes; remove from fire; add A cup cider, 
scalding hot, 1 large tablespoon good butter, 
and yolks 2 eggs. 

Royal Wine Sauce.—Bring slowly to boil¬ 
ing point A pint wine; then add yolks of 4 
eggs and 1 cup sugar; whip it on fire until in 
state of high froth and a little thick; remove 
and use as directed. 

Vanilla Sauce.—Put A pint milk in small 
saucepan over fire; when scalding hot, add 
yolks 3 eggs; stir until thick as boiled custard; 
add, when taken from the fire and cooled, 1 
tablespoon extract vanilla and whites of eggs 
whipped stiff. 

Wine Sauce .—A pint water, 1 cup sugar, 
1 small teaspoon corn-starch, 1 teaspoon each 
extract lemon and cinnamon, y 2 gill wine. 
Boil water, add corn-starch dissolved in little 
cold water, and the sugar; boil 15 minutes, 
strain; when about to serve, add extracts and 
wine. 

Wine Sauce, 2 .—A pint water, 1 cup sugar, 
A teaspoon corn-starch, 1 teaspoon each ex¬ 
tract bitter almonds and vanilla, A cup white 
wine. Stir 2 tablespoons of sugar on the fire 
in thick saucepan, with 1 tablespoon water, 
until very dark, but not burned; add water 
boiling, rest of sugar, the com-starch dis¬ 
solved; boil 10 minutes; when about to 
serve, strain, add extracts and wine, or brandy 
if preferred. 

Pies 

HE richest pastry for pies is called puff 
paste, and much skill and practice 
are required to make it flaky, tender, 
and very light. First-class puff paste will rise 
in baking to double its thickness and be in 
light, flaky layers and without greasiness. 
The novice must learn to handle it lightly 
and as little as possible in rolling and turning. 
It should be put in the ice-box as soon as 
made and stand at least twelve hours before 
being used. 

Pastry flour should always be used for pie 
crust. It is whiter than bread flour and when 


rubbed between the fingers it feels very 
smooth and soft, like corn-starch. Carefully 
sift before using. 

Where it is desired to have a plainer pastry, 
or one less troublesome to make and more 
economical, the use of a small quantity of 
Royal Baking Powder will give a light and 
tender crust. As in other cases, the baking 
powder must be mixed and sifted with the 
flour before the shortening is added. Sweet 
home-made lard may be used in place of but¬ 
ter, either wholly or in part, giving a less ex¬ 
pensive but equally good and light paste. 
Never use sour milk or so-called prepared or 
self-raising flours. 

A pinch of salt and a little Royal Baking 
Powder make pie crust light and flaky and 
more digestible. 

Paste for Pies.—3 cups sifted flour, A tea¬ 
spoon Royal Baking Powder, large pinch salt, 

1 cup cream, A cup butter. Sift flour, salt, 
and powder together; add the cream; mix 
into smooth, rather firm paste; flour the 
board, roll it out thin; spread the butter on it 
evenly, fold in three; roll out thin, and fold 
in three; repeat twice more and use. 

Paste, 2.—3 cups flour, A teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, A pound beef suet, freed" of 
skin and chopped very fine, 1 cup water. 
Place the flour, sifted with the powder, in 
bowl; add suet and water; mix into smooth, 
rather firm dough. 

Paste, 3.—3 cups sifted flour, A cup lard, 
1 A cups butter, A teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder, 1 cup water. Cut lard into flour, 
sifted with powder; mix into smooth, firm 
paste with the water; place it to cool for 15 
minutes; meanwhile press milk and salt from 
butter by pressing in clean, wet towel, and 
flour it. Roll out dough on well-floured 
board; place butter on it; fold dough over it, 
completely covering butter; roll it out 
lightly to A inch in thickness, turn it over, 
fold each end to middle, flour it, roll out again; 
fold ends to middle, and turn it; repeat this 
3 times more, and use. If this paste is made 
in summer, put on ice after each operation of 
folding and rolling. 

Paste, 4.—5 cups flour, 1 cup butter, 1 cup 
lard, 1 cup water, A teaspoon Royal Baking 
Powder. Sift flour with powder; rub in lard 
and butter cold; add the water; mix into a 
smooth, lithe dough. 

Paste, 6 (Puff Paste).—3 cups sifted flour, 

2 cups butter, 1 egg yolk, a little salt. This is 
difficult to make. The essentials are: A cool 
place to make it in, ice broken up in 2 shallow 
cake-pans, good flour, and butter, firm, with 
salt and buttermilk worked out. Sift flour on 
pastry slab, form it in a ring with back of 
your hand. Place in center the egg yolk and 
salt; add a little ice-water, and from inside of 
ring gradually take flour, adding a little at a 
time, as you require it, more ice-water, about 
a cup altogether, until you have smooth, fine 
paste, very tenacious and lithe. Place in ice¬ 
box 15 minutes, then roll out to size of a din¬ 
ner-plate ; lay on it butter, and wrap over it 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 



27 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


edges of dough, carefully covering it; turn it 
upside down, roll out very thin; then turn 
face down—the face is side of paste next to 
rolling-pin—folding it in three, squarely; re¬ 
peat this three times more, placing it in thin 
tin on the broken ice, and other tin containing 
ice on it, after each turn or operation of fold¬ 
ing and rolling. By this method this diffi¬ 
cult puff paste may be made successfully in 
hottest weather. 

Paste, 6.—3 cups sifted flour, 1 large cup 
butter, A teaspoon Royal Baking Powder, 3 
tablespoons sugar, A cup milk. Sift flour 
with powder and sugar, rub in butter, add 
milk; mix into a smooth dough of medium 
stiffness. 

Apple Pot Pie.—14 apples, peeled, cored, 
and sliced, 1A pints flour, 1 teaspoon Royal 
Baking Powder, 1 cup sugar, cup butter, 1 
cup milk, large pinch salt. Sift flour with 
powder and salt, rub in butter cold, add milk, 
mix into dough as for tea biscuits; with it line 
shallow stewpan to within 2 inches of bottom; 
pour in 1A cups water, apples, and sugar; 
wet edges and cover with rest of dough; put 
cover on, set it to boil 20 minutes, then place 
in moderate oven until apples are cooked; 
then remove from oven, cut top crust in four 
equal parts; dish apples, lay on them pieces 
of side crust cut in diamonds, and pieces of 
top crust on a plate; serve with cream. 

Apple Pie. —5 or 6 apples, 1 cup sugar, A 
cup water, 1 teaspoon extract lemon, paste, 
No. 4. Peel, quarter, and core apples, put in 
stewpan with sugar and water; when tender, 
remove; when cold, add extract and fill pic- 
plate, lined with paste; wet the edges, cover 
with paste rolled out thin, and wash with 
milk; bake in steady, moderate oven 20 min¬ 
utes. 

Apple Pie, 2.—3 tart apples, A cup sugar, 
A lemon rind grated, paste, No. 4. Peel, core, 
and slice apples very thin; line pie-plate with 
paste; put in apples, sugar, and little water; 
wet the edges, cover with paste rolled out 
very thin; wash with milk; bake in steady, 
moderate oven 25 minutes—or till apples are 
cooked. 

Banbury Tarts. —Chop 1 cup seeded raisins, 
add A cup cleaned currants, 1 cup sugar, 2 
tablespoons cracker dust, 1 beaten egg, juice 
and grated rind 1 lemon. Roll pie crust, No. 
5, very thin, cut in circles. Lay on each a 
tablespoonful of filling; wet edges of paste; 
fold each side over the middle to form 
pointed ovals, dust with granulated sugar, 
and bake 20 minutes in slow oven. 

Cranberry Pie. —Paste, No. 4,3 cups cran¬ 
berries, stewed with IA cups sugar, and 
strained. Line pie-plate with paste; put in 
cranberry jam; wash the edges, lay 3 narrow 
bars across; fasten at edge, then 3 more 
across, forming diamond-shaped spaces. Lay 
rim of paste, No. 5, or of same; wash with 
egg wash; bake in quick oven until paste is 
cooked. 

Gooseberry Pie. —Paste, No. 5, 3 cups 
gooseberries, stewed with 1A cups sugar 15 
minutes, and strained. Proceed as directed 
for cranberry pie. 


Fruit Pies of all Kinds. —Use about 3 cups 
prepared fruit for each pie. Heap fruit in 
center. Sprinkle with sugar to sweeten; if 
juicy, add 1 teaspoon or more of flour with 
sugar. Use pie crust, No. 4 or 6. 

Cocoanut Pie. —Proceed as for custard pie, 
adding 1A cups grated cocoanut, and leaving 
out Yl pint milk. 

Custard Pie. —2 eggs, 3 tablespoons sugar, 
H teaspoon salt, 1A cups milk, a little grated 
nutmeg. Beat eggs slightly, add sugar, salt, 
and milk. Line pie-plate with any desired 
crust, making edge high and thicker than in 
center. Strain in the mixture slowly, adding 
few gratings of nutmeg. Bake in quick oven 
at first till edge of paste is set, then decrease 
heat. Bake till custard is just set. 

Lemon Cream Pie. —Paste, No. 5, 1A pints 
milk, 3 tablespoons corn-starch, 1 cup sugar, 
2 tablespoons butter, grated rind and juice 
of 2 lemons, yolks 4 eggs. Boil milk, add corn¬ 
starch dissolved in a little cold milk; when it 
reboils, take off, beat in yolks, butter, lemon 
juice, and rind; pour at once into pie-plates 
lined with paste, having high rim—as de¬ 
scribed in custard pie; bake in hot oven 
until paste is cooked—about 20 minutes, or, if 
meringue is desired, whip whites of 4 eggs to 
dry froth; slowly incorporate 1 cup sugar; 
spread over top of pie; when baked, dust with 
powdered sugar; return to oven to set fawn 
color. 

Note.—One teaspoon of Royal Baking 
Powder in one-half cup granulated sugar 
added to the white of one egg stiffly beaten 
makes a fluffy meringue for lemon pies. 

Lovers of Chocolate, in any and every 
form, can make this addition to a common 
custard pie. Beat 1 egg to a stiff froth, then 
add pulverized sugar and grated chocolate 
with A teaspoon extract vanilla; spread this 
on the top of the pie and let it harden for a 
moment in the oven. Or you may prepare it 
in still another way. Put the chocolate in a 
basin on the back of the stove, and let it melt 
(do not put a drop of water with it); when 
melted beat 1 egg and some sugar in with it. 
In the latter case it will be a regular chocolate 
brown in color, and in the other a sort of gray. 

Peach Tart. —For each large peach allow 
1 tablespoon sugar and 1 tablespoon water. 
Fill baking-dish with sliced peaches, add 
sugar and water. Cover with pie crust, No. 6, 
bake in moderate oven about 30 minutes. 
Serve hot with cream. 

Pumpkin or Squash Pie. —Mix 3 cups thick 
stewed and sieved pumpkin or squash, 2 cups 
milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 eggs, A 
teaspoon cinnamon, pinch cloves. Line 2 pie- 
plates as for custard pio; bake in moderate 
oven. 

Rhubarb Pie. — l A bunches rhubarb, 1A 
cups sugar. Cut fruit in small pieces after 
stripping off skin, cook it very fast in shallow 
stewpan, with sugar. Line pie-plate with 
aste; wet rim; add rhubarb, cold; lay 3 
ars paste across, fastening ends; lay 3 more 
across, forming diamond-shaped spaces; lay 
round a rim, wash over with egg, and bake 
in quick oven 15 minutes. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


28 THE ROYAL BAEER 

Mince-meat.—7 pounds currants, 334 
pounds peeled and cored apples, 3)4 pounds 
beef, pounds suet, 34 pound each citron, 
lemon, and orange peel, 2)4 pounds coffee 
sugar, 2 pounds raisins, 4 nutmegs, 1 ounce 
cinnamon, )4 ounce each cloves and mace, 1 
pint brandy, and 1 pint white wine. Wash 
currants, dry, pick them; stone the raisins; 
remove skin and sinews from beef and suet. 
Chop each ingredient, separately, very fine; 
put mto large pan as they are finished, finally 
adding spices, brand}', and wine; thoroughly 
mix together; pack in jars; store in cold, dry 
place. This mince-meat will keep from 12 to 
18 months. The fruit should never be floured 
in making mince pie. 

Tartlets.—Time to bake, M hour. Line 
some patty-pans with puff paste, fill them 
with any jam or preserve, and bake lightly. 

Open Jam Tart.—Time to bake, until paste 
loosens from the dish. Line shallow tin dish 
with puff paste, put in the jam, roll out some 
of paste, wet it lightly with yolk of an egg 
beaten with a little milk and a tablespoon of 
powdered sugar; cut it in very narrow strips, 
then lay them across the tart; lay another 
strip round the edge, trim off outside, and 
bake in quick oven. 

Other Desserts 

B AKED CUSTARDS. —For each quart 
milk allow 4 large or 5 small eggs and 
3 tablespoons sugar. Warm milk; pour 
over eggs and sugar beaten together, add 
flavoring to suit. Fill small earthen cups or 
pudding-dish. Stand in pan of warm water; 
bake in moderate oven till firm in center. For 
chocolate custards melt chocolate with sugar. 

Boiled Custard. —1 quart milk, 4 or 5 eggs, 
pinch salt, 3 tablespoons sugar. Scald milk, 
mix part of it with eggs beaten with sugar, 
turn back into the rest of milk, cook until it 
thickens which will be when foam disappears 
from top; cover and cool, then add flavoring. 
Or whites of eggs may be reserved, beaten 
to a foam and added to custard after straining; 
must be stirred in thoroughly. 

Corn-starch Custard. —Scald 1 quart milk. 
Dissolve 2 level teaspoons corn-starch in little 
cold milk. Turn quickly into hot milk; stir 
till thickened, then cover and cook 10 minutes. 
Beat 2 eggs with 3 tablespoons sugar, add to 
custard, stir a moment longer, strain. Add 
flavoring when partly cooled. 

Tapioca Custard.—Put 2 tablespoons fine 
tapioca in double boiler with 1 pint milk, cook 
and stir till tapioca is transparent. Add yolks 
2 eggs beaten with 3 tablespoons sugar, and 
pinch salt; stir till thickened. Add whites 
whipped to stiff froth, stir lightly 3 minutes; 
take from fire; add flavoring when cooled. If 
pearl or lump tapioca is used, it must be 
soaked in cola water for several hours before 
cooking. 

Snow Eggs.—To whites 5 eggs add pinch 
salt, and whip to very stiff froth; gradually 
add 1 tablespoon powdered sugar and few 
drops flavoring. Scald 1 quart milk in large 
pan. Shape whites in tablespoon, drop a few 
at a time in hot milk. Turn until cooked. 


AND PASTRY COOK 

Lift out with skimmer, lay on glass dish. 
When all are cooked make custard with egg 
yolks, milk, and 3 tablespoons sugar, and 
serve with eggs. 

Apple Snow. —Core, quarter, and steam 3 
large, sour apples. Rub through sieve, cool; 
whip whites 3 eggs to very stiff froth with 34 
cup powdered sugar, gradually add apple, and 
whip long time till white and stiff. Pile in 
dish, garnish with dots currant jelly. 

Charlotte Russe. —Mix 1 pint rich cream, 
A cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Have very cold and whip to stiff froth, turn¬ 
ing under cream when it first rises. Line dish 
with sponge cake or ladyfingers, fill with 
whipped cream. 

Chocolate Blanc-mange. —Quart milk, A 
box gelatine soaked in 1 cup water, 4 table¬ 
spoons grated chocolate rubbed smooth in a 
little milk, 3 eggs, extract vanilla to taste. 
Heat milk until boiling, then add other ingre¬ 
dients; boil 5 minutes. Pour into mold. 
Serve cold with sugar and cream, or custard. 

Iced Fruits for Desserts. —Any desirable 
fruit may be easily iced by dipping first in the 
beaten white of an egg, then in sugar finely 
pulverized, and again in egg, and so on until 
you have the icing of the desired thickness. 
For this purpose oranges or lemons should be 
carefully pared, and all the white inner skin 
removed that is possible, to prevent bitter¬ 
ness; then cut either in thin horizontal slices 
if lemons, or in quarters if oranges. For 
cherries, strawberries, currants, etc., choose 
the largest and finest, leaving stems out. 
Peaches should be pared and cut in halves, 
and sweet, juicy pears may be treated in the 
same way, or look nice when pared, leaving 
on the stems, and iced. Pineapples should be 
cut in thin slices, and these again divided into 
quarters. 

Floating Island.—1 quart milk, 4 eggs, 
yolks and whites beaten separately, 4 table¬ 
spoons sugar, 2 teaspoons extract vanilla or 
bitter almonds, )4 cup currant jelly. Heat 
milk to scalding, but not boiling. Beat the 
yolks; stir into them the sugar, and pour up¬ 
on them gradually, -nixing well, a cup of the 
hot milk. Put into saucepan and boil until it 
begins to thicken. When cool, flavor and 
pour into a glass dish. Heap upon top me¬ 
ringue of whites whipped until you can cut it, 
into which you have beaten the jelly, a tea¬ 
spoon at a time; or drop whipped whites 
by tablespoon on top of custard and put small 
piece of jelly in center of each “island.” 

Prune Puff. —Whip the whites of 3 or 4 
eggs to a stiff froth, add slowly M cup of pow¬ 
dered sugar, beating all the time. Add 1 cup 
of cooked prunes, stoned, chopped and beaten 
until very light. Put into pudding-dish and 
bake about ten minutes. Serve with soft 
custard made from yolks of eggs. Other soft 
fruits may be used in the same way and the 
puffs may be served hot without sauce or 
with whipped cream. 


Never buy baking powder unless the 
label shows the powder is made from 
Cream of Tartar. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 




THE ROYAL BAKER 

Frozen Desserts 

H OW TO FREEZE. —Pound ice to bits 
size of hickory nut. Use salt in lumps 
Yi size of a pea. Allow 1 part salt to 3 
parts ice. Mix together in pail. In bottom of 
freezer put 1-inch layer of mixture, and pack. 
Arrange and fasten can in freezer. Fill up 
space between with the mixture, packing hard. 
Turn can occasionally to make sure it will 
run freely. When ice is within 1 inch of top 
of can open and fill can, replace and fasten 
top. Turn slowly at first. Increase speed, 
adding more ice and salt as mixture sinks. 
When cream is very firm open can, draw out 
dasher, work cream down in can with wooden 
spoon, cover top with paper, then with can 
cover, add more ice and salt, heaping it over 
top of can. Cover with heavy blanket, set 
away in cold place for 2 hours. All mixtures 
for ice cream expand while freezing, so the 
can should never be more than % full or 
cream will be coarse grained. Water ices 
should be frozen without rapid motion. Jun¬ 
ket tablets are sometimes used to thicken 
milk for milk sherbets, Y to 1 tablet dis¬ 
solved in each quart of milk. If milk is ice 
cold any fruit juice may be added without 
milk curdling the sherbet. 

Plain Ice Cream. —Scald 1 pint milk; mix 
1 cup sugar with 2 tablespoons flour, pinch 
salt, and 2 beaten eggs. Add to hot milk, 
stir over fire till thick and smooth, cover and 
cook 20 minutes. Strain and cool. Add 1 
pint cream, flavoring desired, and freeze. 
One can condensed milk and 1 cup milk may 
be mixed and added in place of cream. Very 
good ice cream may be made without the 
addition of any cream. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream. —Scald 1 pint 
cream. Add 1 cup sugar and stir till dissolved. 
Take from fire and add 1 pint chilled cream. 
Freeze when cold. 

Delmonico Ice Cream. —Make a cooked 
custard with 1 pint milk, 5 eggs, 1 cup sugar; 
strain and cool. Add 1 pint rich cream, 2 
tablespoons flavoring, and freeze. 

To this as well as to any cream may be 
added at will 1 cup fresh fruit or berries 
rubbed through sieve, H cup cake crumbs, or 
any variety flavorings and colorings desired. 

Water Ices. —Boil 1 quart water and 1 pint 
sugar 5 minutes. Add % box gelatine soaked 
in cold water, stir till dissolved and chill. 
Add 1 cup lemon juice and freeze. 

All water ices are made in this way, vary 
ing the proportion of sugar according to the 
acidity of the fruit used. Canned fruit syrups 
may be substituted for fresh fruit juice. 

Biscuit Glac6. —pints cream, 12 ounces 
sugar, yolks of 8 eggs, and 1 tablespoon ex¬ 
tract vanilla. Take 6 ounces crisp macaroons, 
pound in mortar to dust. Mix cream, sugar, 
eggs, and extract. Place on fire, and stir 
composition until it begins to thicken. Strain 
and rub through hair-sieve into basin. Put 


AND PASTRY COOK 29 

into freezer; when nearly frozen, mix in 
macaroon dust, another tablespoon extract 
vanilla, and finish freezing. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. —3 pints best cream, 
12 ounces pulverized white sugar, 4 whole 
eggs, 1 tablespoon extract vanilla, 1 pint rich 
cream whipped, 6 ounces chocolate. Dissolve 
chocolate in small quantity of milk to smooth 
paste. Now mix with cream, sugar, eggs, and 
extract. Place all on fire, stir until it begins 
to thicken. Strain through hair-sieve. Place 
in freezer; when nearly frozen, stir in lightly 
the whipped cream, and 1 tablespoon extract 
vanilla, and finish freezing. 

Crushed Strawberry Ice Cream. —3 pints 
best cream, 12 ounces pulverized white sugar, 

2 whole eggs. Mix all in porcelain-lined ba¬ 
sin; place on fire; stir constantly to boiling 
point. Remove and strain through hair-sieve. 
Place in freezer and freeze. Take 1 quart ripe 
strawberries, select, hull, and put in a china 
bowl. Add 6 ounces pulverized white sugar, 
crush all down to pulp. Add this pulp to 
frozen cream, with 2 tablespoons extract 
vanilla; mix in well. Now give freezer few 
additional turns to harden. 

Grape Sherbet.—Warm Y pint of grape 
jelly or 1 pint of pure rich grape juice, dis¬ 
solve in it 1 cup sugar, mix thoroughly with 1 
quart of rich milk ice cold, freeze at once. 
This makes a lilac-colored sherbet. 

Lemon Sherbet. —1 quart milk, 1Y cups 
sugar, juice of 3 lemons. Mix juice and sugar, 
stirring constantly while slowly adding milk 
very cold. If added too rapidly mixture 
will curdle, which affects the looks but not 
the quality. Freeze and serve. 

Orange Water Ice. —Juice 6 oranges, 2 tea¬ 
spoons extract orange, juice 1 lemon, 1 quart 
water, 1 pound powdered sugar, 1 gill rich, 
sweet cream; add all together and strain. 
Freeze same as ice cream. 

Peach Ice Cream. —One dozen of best and 
ripest red-cheeked peaches; peel and stone; 
place in china basin, crush with 6 ounces pul¬ 
verized sugar. Now take 1 quart best cream, 
8 ounces pulverized white sugar, 2 whole eggs. 
Place all on fire until it reaches boiling point; 
now remove and strain; place in freezer and 
freeze. When nearly frozen stir in peach pulp, 
with teaspoon extract almonds; give few 
more turns of freezer to harden. 

Raspberry Water Ice. —Press sufficient 
raspberries through hair-sieve to give 3 pints 
juice. Add 1 pound pulverized white sugar 
and juice of 1 lemon, with 1 teaspoon extract 
raspberry. Place in freezer and freeze. 

Strawberry Mouss6. — 1 quart cream, 1 
box strawberries, 1 cup sugar, scant box 
gelatine, 2 tablespoons cold water, 3 table¬ 
spoons hot water. Wash and hull berries, 
sprinkle with the sugar and let stand 1 hour; 
mash and rub through fine sieve, add gelatine 
which has previously been soaked in cold 
water and dissolved in the hot water. Set in 
pan of ice water and stir until it begins to 
thicken; then fold in whipped cream, put in 
mold, cover, pack in salt and ice, 1 part salt, 

3 of ice. Let stand 4 hours. Raspberries may 
be used instead of strawberries. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


30 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Canning and Preserving 

C ANNING. —The important points to be 
observed in canning are, to use only 
sound, ripe fruit; to have hot syrup 
and air-tight jars; to fill jars to overflowing 
and seal immediately. Jars should be scalded 
and tested before using. Patent canners 
greatly simplify the work. 

Pick over the fruit, stem, pare, cut, wash, 
etc., and pack in jars. Make syrup by adding 
l A pint boiling water to 1 pound sugar. When 
clear, bring to boiling point and carefully fill 
the jars. Stand in canner or on board in 
wash-boiler containing water up to shoulders 
of jars. Cover and cook according to direc¬ 
tions or till tender. Take from canner or 
boiler, add more syrup till overflowing, cover 
and seal immediately. 

Amount of Sugar per Quart Jar 


Canned Preserved 

Cherries.4 oz.8 oz. 

Strawberries . . . 8 “ . ... 12 “ 

Raspberries ... 4 “ .... G “ 

Blackberries . . . 6 “ .... 9 “ 

Quinces.8 “ .... 12 " 

Pears.4 “ .... 8 “ 

Grapes.4 “ .... 8 “ 

Peaches.4 “ .... 8 “ 

Pineapples .... 8 ^ .... 12 “ 

Crab-apples . . . . 6 “ .... 10 “ 

Plums.6 “ .... 9 “ 

Rhubarb.8 “ .... 12 “ 

Sour apples . . . . G “ .... 9 “ 

Currants.8 “ .... 12 “ 

Cranberries .... 8 “ .... 12 u 


Preserving. —Preserves require from % to 
1 pound of sugar to each pound of fruit, and 
Yi cup water to each pound sugar. The fruit 
should be simmered in the syrup until tender 
a little at a time; skimmed out into the jars; 
when all are done the syrup should be brought 
to boiling point, jars filled and sealed. Hard 
fruits like quinces should be first steamed or 
cooked in boiling water till tender. 

Jams. —Jams are usually made with small 
fruits or with chopped large fruits; they are 
cooked with an equal weight of sugar till rich 
and thick, then put into tumblers or small 
jars and sealed. 

Jellies. —Use equal parts of sugar and 
drained fruit juice. Mash and heat berries 
till juice runs readily, then turn into bags of 
unbleached muslin or 2 thicknesses of cheese¬ 
cloth and let drip. Measure juice and sugar. 
Boil juice 20 minutes. Have sugar in shallow 
pan, heat through in open oven. Add to boil¬ 
ing juice, boil up once, take off fire and pour 
into tumblers. Fruit like apples and quinces 
should be chopped and covered with water, 
then simmered till tender before turning into 
jelly-bags. 

Spiced Fruits. —These are also called sweet 
piekled fruits. For 4 pounds prepared fruit 
allow 1 pint vinegar, 2 pounds brown sugar, 
Yi cup whole spices—cloves, allspice, stick cin¬ 
namon, and cassia-buds. Tie spices in thin 


muslin bag, boil 10 minutes with vinegar and 
sugar. Skim, add fruit, cook till tender. Boil 
down syrup, pour over fruit in jars, and seal. 
If put in stone pots, boil syrup 3 successive 
mornings and pour over fruit. Currants, 
peaches, grapes, pears, and berries may be 
prepared in this way, also ripe cucumbers, 
muskmelons, and watermelon rind. 

V 

Soups 

S OUP STOCK is made from cheap, tough 
cuts. The meat should be cut in small 
pieces and soaked in cold water for 
half an hour to draw out the juices. Bone is 
added for the sake of the gelatine which it 
contains, and which will give body to the 
soup. A good proportion is 2 pounds each of 
meat and 1 of bone to each quart of water. 
Use a kettle with a very tight cover and sim¬ 
mer slowly for a number of hours. Stock is 
better when made the day before .it is to 
used. 

Soup Stock. —1 pound lean beef, 1 pound 
bone (or 2 pounds of shin), 1 quart cold water, 
1 teaspoon salt, Yi teaspoon peppercorns, 2 
cloves, 2 allspice berries, 1 sprig parsley, 1 tea¬ 
spoon mixed herbs, 1 tablespoon each kind 
chopped vegetable. Prepare meat as above, 
soak in water Y hour, heat slowly and simmer 
3 hours, add vegetables and seasonings, sim¬ 
mer 1 hour longer, and strain. Next day 
remove cake of fat. 

To clear stock beat white 1 egg till frothy, 
add with broken shell to above stock when 
cold (after fat is removed); heat slowly and 
stir constantly. Boil 10 minutes without 
stirring; set aside 10 minutes; strain through 
2 thicknesses cheese-cloth dipped in cold 
water. 

Soups with Pastes or Vegetables. —Pre¬ 
pare and clear stock as above. In salted 
water boil macaroni, vermicelli, barley, rice, 
tapioca, or other vegetables or dry material 
until done; drain and add to the clear soup 
and simmer together 10 minutes. Proportion, 
Yt cup cooked material to 1 quart stock. 
Vegetables should be boiled in salted water, 
cut in shapes, and added to stock in same 
proportion. 

Consomml. —1 chicken, 3 pounds lean 
beef, 1 onion, 1 turnip, 2 carrots, bunch 
sweet herbs, 7 quarts cold water, Yi cup sago 
soaked in cold water, pepper and salt. Cut 
beef in strips and disjoint chicken, slice 
vegetables, chop herbs, put all on with water 
to cook slowly for 6 hours. Take out chicken 
and beef; salt and pepper and put into jar. 
Strain soup, pulping vegetables through a* 
sieve. Season and divide it, pouring Y on 
meat in jar, and setting in pot of hot water to 
cook, covered, 2 hours more. Heat the rest 
and skim; put in sago, simmer for J4 hour, 
then pour out. When 2 hours have passed, 
pour out stock in bowl; when cold put on ice. 

Tomato Soup with Stock. — 1 quart stock, 

1 can tomatoes, salt, pepper, and sugar to 
taste. Stew and strain tomatoes; add to 
boiling stock, season, and simmer 10 minutes. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 
















THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


SI 


Tomato Soup without Stock. —Stew to¬ 
gether for 10 minutes 1 can tomatoes, 1 pint 
water, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 5 
cloves, V 2 teaspoon peppercorns, 1 tablespoon 
chopped onion, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 
Rub through sieve, return to fire, and thicken 
with 1 tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon 
flour rubbed together and stirred in. 

Cream Soups. —Boil 1 quart of milk, sea¬ 
soning with 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 saltspoon 
white pepper. Thicken with two tablespoons 
flour and 1 of butter rubbed to a cream with 
a cup of boiling water; add thickening to 
boiling milk and boil two minutes. This is 
the foundation for many fish and vegetable 
cream soups. 

A pint of green peas, boiled, mashed, and 
added, or spinach or asparagus can be used— 
salmon, about 1 pound, is good. For cream of 
celery, boil 1 pint of cut celery till tender, add 
to boiling milk and rub through the sieve 
before adding thickening. For potato soup 
use 6 large or 10 medium potatoes, boiled and 
mashed fine, then stirred into the milk and 
strained, a large tablespoon of chopped 
parsley lightly stirred in. For corn soup use 
milk without straining, adding a can of corn 
(chopped) or com cut from 6 ears boiled 
fresh com, an even tablespoon sugar and boil 
10 minutes. Salsify can also be used and 
combinations are numberless. 

Mock Bisque Soup. —A can tomatoes, 1 V 2 
tablespoons butter, 1A tablespoons flour, 1 
quart milk, salt and pepper. Stew and strain 
tomatoes; scald milk in double boiler and 
thicken with the flour and butter; season to¬ 
matoes well and reheat. Take both from fire 
and mix together; if tomatoes are acid add 
pinch of soda. If mixed on fire soup is apt to 
curdle. 

Scotch Broth. —Soak A cup pearl barley 
overnight. Cut 2 pounds neck of mutton in 
bits, add 2 quarts water, soak 1 hour. Heat 
slowly, skim, add barley, skim again; simmer 
1 hour, add A cup each diced onion, carrot, 
turnip, celery fried for 5 minutes in 1 table¬ 
spoon dripping. Simmer 3 hours. Season 
well, thicken a little with flour, add 1 table¬ 
spoon chopped parsley, and serve. 

Family Soup. —Time, 6 hours; 3 or 4 
quarts pot liquor, t.e., the water in which 
mutton or salt beef has been boiled. Any bones 
from dressed meat, trimmings of poultry, 
scraps of meat or 1 pound gravy beef, 2 large 
onions, 1 turnip, 2 carrots, a little celery seed 
tied in a piece muslin, bunch savory herbs, 1 
sprig parsley, 5 cloves, 2 blades mace, a few 
peppercorns, pepper and salt to taste. Put 
all your meat-trimmings, meat-bones, etc., 
into stewpan. Stick onions with cloves, add 
them with other vegetables to meat; pour 
over all the pot liquor; set over slow fire and 
let simmer gently, removing all scum as it 
rises. Strain through fine hair-sieve. 

Clam Soup. —Boil juice of clams, make a 
little drawn butter and mix with the juice; 
stir till it boils, chop up clams and put them 
in; season to taste with pepper, salt, and 
little lemon juice; cream or milk is to be 
added. Boil over slow fire 1 hour. 


Bean Soup. —Soak quart white beans over¬ 
night; in morning pour off water; add fresh, 
and set over fire until skins will easily slip off; 
throw them into cold water, rub well, and 
skins will rise to top, where they may be re¬ 
moved. Boil beans till perfectly soft, allow¬ 
ing 2 quarts water to 1 quart beans," mash 
beans, add flour and butter rubbed together, 
also salt and pepper. Cut cold bread into 
small pieces, toast in oven, and drop on soup 
when you serve. 

Soups of Dried Peas or Beans. —Pick and 
soak split peas, dried green peas, or black or 
white beans overnight. Drain, measure, add 
4 times as much cold water; to each quart of 
water, A onion. Simmer slowly till soft. 
Rub through sieve. Return to fire, season 
with salt and pepper; for each quart thicken 
with 1 teaspoon each butter and flour. Boil 
up again for a few minutes. Black bean soup 
should also have a pinch of mustard and a 
little lemon juice added, and slices of hard- 
boiled egg. 

Croutons. —Trim crust from stale bread 
and cut in A -inch dice. Fry golden brown in 
a little butter or in a kettle of smoking-hot 
fat. Drain and serve hot with soups. In¬ 
stead of frying they may be browned in the 
oven. 

Ox-tail Soup. —1 ox-tail, 2 pounds lean 
beef, 4 carrots, 3 onions, thyme and parsley, 
pepper and salt to taste, 4 quarts cold waiter. 
Cut tail into joints, fry brown, in good drip¬ 
ping. Slice onions and 2 carrots and fry in 
the same, when you have taken out the pieces 
of tail. When done tie the thyme and parsley 
in lace bag, and drop into the soup-pot. Put 
in the tail, then the beef cut into strips. Grate 
over them 2 whole carrots, pour over all the 
water, and boil slowly 4 hours; strain and 
season; thicken with brown flour wet with 
cold water; boil 15 minutes longer and serve. 

Fish 

D irections for preparing.— 

Clean fish carefully, slit it low enough so 
as not to have any hlood on the back¬ 
bone, but do not make too large a cut so as to 
spoil look of fish; wash thoroughly in cold 
water. Great care must be taken not to 
break gall, for it would make fish bitter. Use 
good dripping or lard for frying. 

To Broil Fish. —Clean, wash, and w ipe dry. 
Split so that when laid flat the backbone will 
be in the middle, or take the backbone out. 
Sprinkle with salt and lay, inside down, upon 
a buttered gridiron over a clear fire until it is 
nicely colored, then turn. When done, put 
upon a hot dish, butter plentifully, and pepper. 
Put a hot cover over it and send to table. 

Boiled Bass, or other Fish. —Put sufficient 
water in pot to enable fish, if alive, to swim 
easily. Add A cup vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 onion, 1 dozen whole black peppers, 1 blade 
mace. Sew up fish in piece of clean net or 
muslin, fitted to shape. Heat slowly for first 
A hour; then boil 8 minutes, at least, to 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


32 THE ROYAL BAKER 

pound, quite fast. Unwrap, and pour over it 
cup of drawn butter, based upon the liquor in 
which fish was boiled, with juice of y z lemon 
stirred into it. 

Creamed Fish. —Steam 2 pounds codfish, 
break in flakes, removing bones and skin. 
Make 1 pint white sauce (see Meat and Fish 
Sauces). Grease a baking-dish, fill with alter¬ 
nate layers of fish and sauce, seasoning with 
salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and lemon 
juice or a few drops of vinegar. Mix together 
1 cup dry bread crumbs and 3 tablespoons 
melted butter; spread over top and brown in 
quick oven. 

This may be varied by using tomato, 
bechamel, curry, or any other sauce, or by 
adding grated cheese or sliced hard-boiled 
eggs to the white sauce; by baking in shells 
or patty-pans in place of the deep dish, or by 
covering with mashed potato or biscuit crust 
instead of crumbs. 

Broiled Salt Mackerel. —Freshen by soak¬ 
ing it overnight in water, taking care that the 
skin lies uppermost. In the morning dry it 
without breaking, cut off the head and tip of 
the tail, place it between the bars of a but¬ 
tered fish-gridiron, and broil to a light brown; 
lay it on a hot dish, and dress with a little 
butter, pepper, and lemon juice, vinegar, or 
chopped pickle. 

Broiled Halibut. —Slices of halibut, salt, 
pepper, butter. Cut the slices of fish about an 
inch thick, season with pepper and salt, and 
lay them in melted butter H hour, allowing 3 
tablespoons of butter to a pound of fish, then 
roll them in flour, and broil about 20 minutes. 
Serve very hot. 

Fish Chowder. —Cut 2 or 3 slices of salt 
pork into dice pieces; fry to crisp, and turn 
the whole into chowder-kettle. Pare 6 
medium-sized potatoes and cut them in two. 
Peel small onion and chop fine. Put potatoes 
into kettle with part of onion. Cut fish 
(which should be fresh cod or haddock) into 
convenient pieces, and lay over potatoes; 
sprinkle over it rest of the onion. Season 
well with salt and pepper, add just enough 
water to come to top of fish. Pour over the 
whole quart can tomatoes; cover closely and 
allow to cook about as long as takes to boil 
potatoes; then add 2 quarts milk, and let it 
scald up again. Season with tomato catsup, 
and more salt and pepper if required. 

Codfish Balls. — 1 pint of raw salt fish 
picked very fine, two heaping pints of pared 
and sliced potatoes. Put the potatoes in the 
saucepan, the fish on top, and cover with boil¬ 
ing water; boil half an hour, drain off the 
water and mash fish and potatoes together 
until fine and light, add butter size of an egg, 
pepper and two well beaten eggs. Have a 
deep kettle of rapidly boiling fat; dip a 
tablespoon into it and then into the mixture; 
shape and drop into the boiling fat. The fat 
should be hot enough to brown a piece of 
bread while you count 40. Do not crowd the 
balls, drain when done, and dish on napkin 
on hot dish 


AND PASTRY COOK 

Codfish Balls, 2.—Put fish in cold water, 
set on back of stove; when water gets hot, 
pour off and put on cold again until fish is 
fresh enough; then pick it apart. Boil pota¬ 
toes and mash them; mix fish and potatoes 
together while potatoes are hot, taking % 
potatoes and M fish. Put in plenty of butter; 
make into balls and fry in plenty of lard. 
Have lard hot before putting in balls. 

Variation may be had by rolling each ball 
in beaten egg, then in dry bread crumbs be¬ 
fore frying. 

Fried Blue Fish, and other Bands. —Clean, 
wipe dry, inside and out. Sprinkle with flour, 
and season with salt. Fry in hot butter or 
sweet lard. y lard and y butter make a good 
mixture for frying fish. The moment fish are 
done to good brown, take them from fat and 
drain in hot strainer; garnish with parsley. 

To Fry Brook Trout or any other Small 
Fish.—Clean fish, and let them lie few min¬ 
utes wrapped singly, in clean dry towel; sea¬ 
son with pepper and salt; roll in com meal, 
fry in y butter and % lard; drain on sieve, 
and serve hot. 

V* 

Shell Fish 

LAM CHOWDER. —25 clams cut up, y 
pound salt pork chopped fine, 6 pota¬ 
toes sliced thin, 4 onions sliced thin. 
Put pork in kettle; after cooking a short time 
add potatoes, onions, and juice of clams. 
Cook 2 y hours, then add clams; 15 minutes 
before serving add 2 quarts milk. 

Fried Oysters. —Select largest and finest 
oysters. Drain and wipe them by spreading 
upon cloth, laying another over them, press¬ 
ing lightly. Roll each in beaten egg, then in 
cracker crumbs with which has been mixed 
a very little pepper. Fry in mixture of equal 
parts of lard and butter. 

Oysters Roasted in the Shell —Wash and 
scrub the shells. Cook in hot oven, on top of 
stove, over red-hot coals, or in steamer until 
shells open. Always place them round shell 
down to retain juice. Serve melted butter 
and vinegar or lemons with them. 

Panned Oysters. —Pick over the opened 
oysters to remove bits of shell. Wash quickly 
in cold water and drain on sieve. Put into 
saucepan with 1 tablespoon butter for 25 
oysters and a dash of salt and pepper. Cover 
and shake over a hot fire until edges ruffle 
and oysters are plump. May be served on 
toast. 

Scalloped Oysters. —Pick, wash, and drain 
1 solid quart oysters. Put in layers in baking- 
dish, alternating with dry bread or cracker 
crumbs and seasoning. When dish is filled 
add strained oyster liquor and sufficient milk 
to moisten. Cover with crumbs, add 1 table¬ 
spoon butter in bits, and bake y hour in hot 
oven. 

Broiled Oysters. —Pick, wash, and drain 
large oysters. Dip each in melted butter, roll 
in fine crumbs, and broil in fine wire broiler 
over a clear, hot fire. Serve on toast with 
sliced lemons. 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


33 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Stewed Oysters. —Pick over and wash 1 
quart oysters. Scald 1 pint milk. Strain, 
boil, and skim oyster liquor; when clear add 
oysters. Cook till oysters are plump and well 
ruffled; take from fire, add hot milk, salt, and 
pepper. 

If desired thicker, rub together 1 table¬ 
spoon each of butter and flour; add to milk 
and stir until smooth. This may be varied 
by addition of a little chopped celery or onion. 

Creamed Oysters. —Prepare 1 cup thick 
cream sauce (see Sauces). Pan 1 pint cleaned 
oysters; drain and add to sauce. Season with 
salt, pepper, pinch of mace, and few drops 
lemon juice. 

Pickled Oysters. —2 gallons large oysters, 
drain and rinse them; put 1 pint oyster juice 
in 1 quart vinegar over fire; scald and skim 
until clear; add 1 tablespoon whole pepper, 1 
tablespoon cloves, 1 tablespoon mace, 1 even 
tablespoon salt; scald a minute, then throw 
in oysters; let them just come to a boil. The 
oysters should be pickled day before being 
wanted, as they grow tough after standing a 
few days in vinegar. 

Oyster Cocktail. —Serve in small glasses, 5 
small oysters to a glass. Cover with tomato 
catsup, add 1 drop of tabasco sauce to each 
glass, also a little horse radish, and a few drops 
of lemon juice. Prepare mixture and let 
oysters stand in it for at least 3 hours before 
serving. 

Oyster PatSs. — 1 quart oysters, minced 
fine with a sharp knife; 1 cup rich drawn 
butter based upon milk; cayenne and black 
pepper to taste. Stir minced oysters in drawn 
butter and cook 5 minutes. Have ready 
some shapes of pastry, baked in pit6-pans, 
then slipped out. Fill these with the mixture; 
set in oven 2 minutes to heat, and send to 
table. 

Oyster Pie. — 1 quart oysters, drained; 
pepper, salt, and butter to taste. 1 quart 
flour, 2 tablespoons lard, 1 tablespoon salt, 
mix with water for pie crust. Butter plate, 
then line pie plate with crust; fill with oysters, 
seasoned; put over a crust and bake. 

Scallops in Batter. —Wash and dry large 
scallops. Dip each in fritter batter (see Frit¬ 
ters) and fry golden brown in smoking-hot fat. 

Deviled Crabs. —1 cup crab meat, picked 
from shells of well-boiled crabs, 2 tablespoons 
fine bread crumbs or rolled cracker, yolks two 
hard-boiled eggs chopped, juice of a lemon, y 2 
teaspoon mustard, a little cayenne pepper 
and salt, 1 cup good drawn butter. Mix 1 
spoon crumbs with chopped crab meat, yolks, 
seasoning, drawn butter. Fill scallop shells— 
large clam shells will do—or small pat6-pans 
—with the mixture; sift crumbs over top, 
heat to slight browning in quick oven. 

Lobster Newburg.— Season 1 pint diced 
lobster with y 2 teaspoon salt, dash cayenne, 
pinch nutmeg. Put in saucepan with 2 
tablespoons butter, heat slowly. Add 2 
tablespoons sherry; cook 5 minutes; add y 2 
cup cream beaten with yolks 2 eggs, stir till 
thickened. Take quickly from fire. 


To Boil Lobsters or Crabs. —The lobster is 
in good season from April to December, and 
should be purchased alive and plunged into 
boiling water in which a good proportion of 
salt has been mixed. Continue to boil accord¬ 
ing to size about 20 minutes. Crabs should be 
boiled in the same manner, but a little more 
than half the time is necessary. 

Soft Shell Crabs. —Fry in butter or lard. 

To Open a Boiled Lobster. —Wipe off shell, 
break off large claws; separate tail from body; 
take body from shell, leaving “ lady,” or 
stomach, on shell. Put aside green fat and 
coral; remove small claws; remove woolly 
gills from body, break latter through middle, 
and pick out meat from joints. Crush or cut 
under side of tail, draw meat from shell. 
Draw back flesh on upper end and pull off 
intestinal cord. Break edge of large claws 
and remove meat. 

Meats 

Broiling 

HE rules for roasting meat apply to broil¬ 
ing, except that instead of cooking it in 
the oven it is to be quickly browned, 
first on one side and then on the other, over a 
hot fire, and removed a little from the fire to 
finish cooking. Meat an inch thick will broil 
in about 4 minutes. It should be seasoned 
after it is cooked. 

Frying 

There are two distinct methods of frying: 
One with very little fat in the pan, to practise 
which successfully the pan and the fat must 
be hot before the article to be fried is put into 
it. For instance, in frying chops, if the pan 
is hot, and only fat enough is used to keep the 
chops from sticking to it, the heat being main¬ 
tained so that the chops cook quickly, they 
will be nearly as nice as if they were broiled. 
Frying by the other method consists in en¬ 
tirely immersing the article to be cooked in 
sufficient smoking-hot fat to cover it, and 
keeping the fat at that degree of heat until 
the food is brown. It should then be taken up 
with a skimmer and laid upon brown paper 
for a moment to free it from grease. 

Boiling and Stewing 

Fresh meat for boiling should be put into 
boiling water and boiled very gently about 20 
minutes for each pound. A little salt, spice, 
or vegetables may be boiled in the water with 
the meat for seasoning. A little vinegar put 
in the water with tough meat makes it tender. 
The broth of boiled meat should always be 
saved to use in soups, stews, and gravies. 
Stewing and simmering meats means to place 
them near enough to the fire to keep the water 
on them bubbling moderately, constantly, 
and slowly. Salt meats should be put over 
the fire in cold water, which as soon as it boils 
should be replaced by fresh cold water, the 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


34 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


water to be changed until it remains fresh 
enough to give the meat a palatable flavor 
when done. Salted and smoked meats require 
about 30 minutes’ very slow boiling, from 
the time the water boils, to each pound. 
Vegetables and herbs may be boiled with 
them to flavor them. When they are cooked 
the vessel containing them should be set 
where they will keep hot without boiling until 
required, if they are to be served hot; if they 
are to be served cold, they should be allowed 
to cool in the pot liquor in which they were 
boiled. Very salt meats, or those much dried 
in smoking, should be soaked overnight in 
cold water before boiling. 

Roasting 

Wipe meat with damp cloth. Trim and tie 
into shape if necessary. In the bottom of pan 
put some pieces of fat from meat. Arrange 
meat on rack in pan. Dredge with salt, pep¬ 
per, and flour. Ilave ovea very hot at first; 
when meat is half done reduce heat. Baste 
every 10 or 15 minutes. If there is danger 
of fat in pan being scorched add a few spoons 
of boiling water. Allow from 10 to 20 min¬ 
utes per pound of meat, according as it is 
desired rare or well done. When done remove 
to hot platter. Thicken gravy in pan with 
browned flour adding more water as necessary 
and add seasoning. 

Yorkshire Pudding. —% pint flour, 3 eggs, 
1 \'2 pints milk, pinch salt, l l A teaspoons Royal 
Baking Powder. Sift flour and powder to¬ 
gether, add eggs, beaten with milk, stir 
quickly into rather thinner batter than for 
griddle cakes, pour into dripping-pan, plenti¬ 
fully greased with beef-dripping, bake in hot 
oven 25 minutes; serve with roast beef. 

Braised Beef. —Wipe and trim 6 pounds 
round or rump of beef without bone. Sear 
brown on all sides in very hot frying-pan over 
hot fire. In braising-pan or iron kettle put 
layers of sliced onions, turnips, and carrots; 
add bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoon salt, X A 
teaspoon pepper; on this lay meat. Add 1 
pint boiling water (or water and stewed 
tomatoes). Cover closely and cook 4 hours 
in moderate oven. If water evaporates 
rapidly add more. Transfer meat to hot 
platter. Strain, thicken, and season gravy. 
The vegetables may be served separately if 
desired. 

Braised Veal Shoulder. —Have shoulder 
boned. Fill with stuffing (see Stuffings). 
Prepare bed of vegetables as for braised beef. 
Lay veal on it, add 1 pint boiling water, 1 pint 
stewed tomatoes, X A teaspoon salt, M teaspoon 
pepper. Cover and cook 4 hours in moderate 
oven. Uncover and brown. Serve strained 
gravy separately. 

Beefsteak Pie (French style). —Take a 
nice piece of beef, rump or sirloin, cut in small 
slices; slice also a little raw ham; put both in 
a frying-pan, with some butter and small 
quantity chopped onions; let them simmer 
together a short time on the fire or in the 


oven; add a little flour and enough stock to 
make sauce; salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 
and a little Worcestershire sauce as seasoning; 
add also a few sliced potatoes, and cook to¬ 
gether for about 20 minutes; put this into a 
pie-dish, with a few slices of hard-boiled eggs 
on the top, and cover with a layer of Royal 
biscuit dough. Bake from 15 to 20 minutes 
in a well-heated oven. All dark-meat pies 
can be treated precisely in the same way. 
If poultry, leave the potatoes out. 

Broiled Steak. —Trim and wipe steak, 
which should be at least 1 inch thick. Rub 
broiler with fat, arrange steak with thickest 
part in center of broiler. Have fire clear and 
very hot, but without blaze. Hold steak close 
to fire. Turn every A minute, that it may sear 
quickly. When A done season with salt and 
pepper. Steak 1 inch thick will broil in 4 min¬ 
utes. 

Panned Steak or Chops. —Trim and wipe 
steak. Heat frying-pan until it smokes all 
over. Rub bottom with a bit of fat. Lay in 
steak and turn every 10 seconds. Keep pan 
very hot. Season when X A done. 

Mutton and pork chops, ham and bacon, 
may be panned in same way. 

If hot platter for steak is rubbed with a cut 
onion it will give a delightful flavor to the 
meat. 

Pork Chops with Tomato Gravy. —Trim 
off skin and fat; rub the chops over with a 
mixture of powdered sage and onion; put 
small piece butter into a frying-pan; put in 
the chops and cook slowly, as they should be 
well done. Lay chops on hot dish; add a 
little hot water to gravy in pan, 1 large spoon 
butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, and sugar, 
and X A cup juice drained from can tomatoes. 
The tomatoes themselves can be used for a 
tomato omelet. Stew 5 minutes and pour over 
the chops and serve. 

To Boil a Ham. —A blade of mace, a few 
cloves, a sprig of thyme, and 2 bay-leaves. 
Well soak ham in large quantity of water for 
24 hours, then trim and scrape very clean; 
put into large stewpan, with more than suffi¬ 
cient water to co\ r er it; put in mace, cloves, 
thyme, and bay-leaves. Boil 4 or 5 hours, 
according to weight; when done, let it be¬ 
come cold in liquor in which it was boiled. 
Then remove rind carefully, without injuring 
the fat; press cloth over it to absorb as much 
of the grease as possible. It is always im¬ 
proved by setting in the oven for nearly an 
hour, till much of the fat dries out, and it also 
makes it more tender. Shake some bread 
raspings over the fat. Serve cold garnished 
with parsley. 

Boiled Mutton or Lamb. —Trim and wipe 
the meat. Have ready kettle of rapidly boil¬ 
ing salted water. Immerse meat, boil hard 5 
minutes, then reduce to gentle simmer. 
Allow 12 to 15 minutes per pound. Lamb 
should always be well done; mutton may be 
rare. A little rice may be added to water to 
keep meat white; if a few vegetables are also 
added the pot liquor will make a good thick 
soup. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


35 


Boiled Corned Beef and Turnips. —Select a 
piece not too salt. The brisket is a good cut 
for family use when not too fat. Cook beef in 
plenty cold water. Bring slowly to boil. 
Cook 18 minutes to the pound after it begins 
to simmer. When fully A done put in a 
dozen turnips, peeled and quartered. When 
both beef and turnips are thoroughly done 
dish out the beef, and lay the turnips, un¬ 
mashed, about it. Serve with drawn butter, 
having as a base the pot liquor. Remaining 
liquor will make a good soup for next day’s 
dinner. 

Broiled Ham and Poached Eggs. —Cut 

slices of boiled ham of equal size; broil on a 
gridiron over a clear fire; lay on a hot dish. 
Lay on each a poached egg, neatly trimmed, 
and serve. 

Sausages. —Have A lean and A fat pork 
chopped very fine, 1 pound salt, A pound 
pepper, and teacup sage to every 40 pounds 
meat. Warm the meat, that you can mix it 
well with your hands, do up a part in small 
patties mixed with a little flour, the rest pack 
in jars. When to be used, do it up in small 
cakes, flour the outside, fry in butter or alone. 
They should not be covered while frying, or 
they will fall to pieces. They should be kept 
where it is cool, but not damp. To prevent 
sausages from bursting when cooking, never 
make a hole in them with a fork while turning 
them. 

Boston Baked Beans. —Soak 1 quart of 
peabeans overnight in cold water. In the 
morning drain, cover with fresh water, heat 
slowly and simmer until they burst slightly 
on removing a few of them in a spoon and 
blowing on them, those tested to be thrown 
away; A teaspoon of soda is often put in the 
water when beans are parboiled. Turn the 
beans into a colander and drain thoroughly. 
Place in a small top earthen bean pot. Scald 
rind of A pound of fat salt pork, scrape, 
remove A -inch slice and cut remaining rind 1 
inch deep in H-inch strips. Bury pork in 
beans, leaving only rind exposed. Mix 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon molasses and 
3 tablespoons sugar. Add 1 cup of boiling 
water and pour over beans, then add more, if 
necessary, to cover them. Cover bean pot, 
put in oven, bake slowly, adding water as 
needed, from 8 to 12 hours, uncovering the 
last hour of cooking that rind may become 
brown and crisp. A teaspoon dry mustard 
added to seasonings is said to make the beans 
more digestible. 

Liver and Bacon. —Cut liver in H-inch 
slices, soak in cold water 20 minutes, drain, 
dry, and roll in flour. Have pan very hot. 
Put in bacon thinly sliced, turn until brown, 
transfer to hot platter. Fry liver quickly in 
the hot fat, turning often. When done pour 
off all but 1 or 2 tablespoons fat, dredge in 
flour until it is absorbed, and stir till brown. 
Add hot water gradually to make smooth 
gravy, season and boil 1 minute. Serve 
separately. 

Few people know that lamb’s liver is as 
tender and well flavored as calf’s liver; it is 
much less expensive. 


Fried Salt Pork. —Cut fat salt pork in thin 
slices and soak in milk for a few hours. Pour 
boiling water over, drain, and fry until crisp. 
When partly fried they may be dipped into 
batter (see Fritters), then finished in the 
same pan, turning several times. 

Baked Liver. — 1A pounds liver cut in one 
piece; wipe and trim. Slit on top and put in 
strips of salt pork with larding needle. Bake 
in hot oven for A hour, basting frequently; 
make brown gravy and pour over before 
serving. 

Scotch Collops. —2 cups raw chopped beef, 
1 cup cold water, 2 teaspoons chopped onion, 
pepper, salt and butter, cook 5 minutes, 
thicken with 2 teaspoons browned flour. 
Serve on toast. 

Stew, Irish. —Time, about 2 hours. 2 A 
pounds chops, 8 potatoes, 4 turnips, 4 small 
onions, nearly a quart of water. Take some 
chops from loin of mutton, place them in a 
stewpan in alternate layers of sliced potatoes 
and chops; add turnips and onions cut into 
pieces, pour in nearly quart cold water; cover 
stewpan closely, let stew gently till vegetables 
are ready to mash and greater part of gravy is 
absorbed; then place in a dish; serve it up 
hot. 

Brown Beef Stew. —Cut 2 pounds beef in 
small pieces. Melt some of the fat in a pan, 
brown in it A the meat. Put rest of meat in 
kettle with 1 pint cold water, let stand 20 min¬ 
utes, then heat slowly. Transfer browned 
meat to kettle; thicken fat with two table¬ 
spoons browned flour, add 1 pint boiling 
water and stir; when thick strain into kettle. 
Add 1 cup diced carrot, cover, and simmer. 
When half done add 1 pint diced potatoes. 
Season well with salt and pepper. 

Mutton Haricot. —Cut 2 pounds breast 
mutton in pieces, roll in flour, and brown in 
drippings. Transfer to a stewpan, add 2 
sliced onions, cover with boiling water, and 
simmer until very tender. Add 1 pint par¬ 
boiled potatoes or 1 pint boiled macaroni and 
1 pint shelled peas; season, simmer till 
vegetables are done. 

Brown Kidney Stew. —From a beef kidney 
cut off the outside meat in bits, rejecting 
tubes and purplish cores. Cover with cold 
water; heat slowly till steaming, drain, add 
cold water, and heat a second and again a 
third time. To the drained kidneys, add 1 
cup brown sauce (see Sauces), season very 
highly with Worcestershire and catsup, and 
stand over hot water for 10 minutes. 

To Roast a Leg of Pork. —Choose a small 
leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the 
knuckle with a sharp knife, and fill the space 
with sage, and onions chopped, and a little 
pepper and salt. When half done score the 
skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the 
outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should 
be served to eat with it. 

Sweetbreads. —Scald in salted water; re¬ 
move stringy parts; put in cold water 5 or 10 
minutes; drain in towel; dip in egg and bread 
or cracker crumbs, fry in butter, or broil them 
plain. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


36 


Veal Cutlets, Breaded. —Trim and flatten 
the cutlets, pepper and salt, and roll in beaten 
egg, then in pounded cracker. Fry rather 
slowly in good dripping, turning when the 
lower side is brown. Drain off the fat, 
squeeze a little lemon juice upon each, and 
serve in a hot flat dish. 


Stuffings 

V TEAL STUFFING.— 3 cups stale bread 
V crumbs, 3 onions chopped fine, 1 tea¬ 
spoon salt, A teaspoon white pepper, 2 
tablespoons chopped parsley, A cup melted 
butter or suet. 

Poultry Stuffing. — 1 quart stale bread 
crumbs, salt, pepper, and dried thyme to 
season highly, X A cup melted butter. 

Chestnut Stuffing for Poultry. —1 pint fine 
bread crumbs, 1 pint shelled and boiled 
French chestnuts chopped fine, salt, pepper, 
and chopped parsely to season, A cup melted 
butter. Small raw oysters or finely cut cel¬ 
ery may be substituted for the chestnuts, 
omitting the parsley. 

Stuffing for Pork. —3 large onions par¬ 
boiled and chopped, 2 cups fine bread crumbs, 
2 tablespoons powdered sage, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter or pork fat, salt and pepper to 
taste. 

Stuffing for Geese and Ducks. —2 chopped 
onions, 2 cups mashed potato, 1 cup bread 
crumbs, salt, pepper, and powdered sage to 
taste. 

Stuffing for Tomatoes, Green Peppers, 
etc. —1 cup dry bread crumbs, A teaspoon 
salt, A teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon onion 
juice, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 2 table¬ 
spoons melted butter. Hominy, rice, or other 
cooked cereal may take the place of crumbs. 


Poultry 

T O CLEAN POULTRY.— Put 2 table¬ 
spoons alcohol in saucer, ignite, and 
( over this singe the fowl. Cut off head 
just below bill. Untie feet, break bone, and 
loosen sinews just below the joint; pull out 
sinews and cut off feet. Cut out oil-sac. Lay 
breast down, slit skin down backbone toward 
head; loosen windpipe and crop and pull 
them out. Cut off neck close to body. Make 
small slit below end of breast-bone, put in 
the fingers, loosen intestines from backbone, 
take firm grasp of gizzard and draw all out. 
Cut round the vent so that the intestines are 
unbroken. Remove heart and lungs. Re¬ 
move kidneys. See that inside looks clean, 
then wipe out with wet cloth. Wipe off skin 
with cloth. 

To Truss Poultry. —Fill inside with stuf¬ 
fing (see Stuffings). Have at least 1 yard fine 
twine in trussing-needle. Turn wings across 
back so that pinions touch. Run needle 
through thick part of wing under bone, 
through body and wing on other side; return 
in same way, but passing needle in over bone. 


tie firmly, leave several inches of twine. 
Press legs up against body, run needle 
through thigh, body, and second thigh, and 
return, going round bone in same way; tie 
firmly. Run needle through ends of legs, 
return, passing needle through rump; if 
opening is badly torn, 1 or 2 stitches may be 
needed, otherwise not. 

To Roast Poultry. —Rub all over with soft 
butter and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Place on rack in roasting-pan and put in very 
hot oven. Make basting-mixture with A cup 
each of butter and water; keep hot and baste 
every 10 or 15 minutes. Roast 3 hours for 
8-pound turkey, 1 to 1 A hours for fowls. 
Keep oven very hot. If fowl is very large 
and heavy, cover breast and legs with several 
thicknesses paper to keep from burning. 

Poultry Gravy. —Pour off excess of fat in 
pan. Set pan on stove and sprinkle in suffi¬ 
cient flour to absorb fat. Stir until well 
browned. Gradually add hot water, or the 
chopped giblets with water in which they 
were cooked; stir till smoothly thickened. 
Season, simmer for few minutes, and serve. 

Broiled Chicken. —Singe, split down back¬ 
bone, and clean. Grease broiler, arrange 
chicken on it, crossing legs and turning wings. 
Rub inside and out with soft butter, and sea¬ 
son. Have fire clear and hot. Cook flesh side 
first, holding up well that it may not brown 
too quickly. Should cook in about 20 or 25 
minutes, then turn and brown skin side. 

Fried Spring Chicken. —Clean and disjoint, 
then soak in salt water for 2 hours. Put in 
frying-pan equal parts of lard and butter— 
in all enough to cover chicken. Roll each 
piece in flour, dip in beaten egg, then roll in 
cracker crumbs, and drop into the boiling fat. 
Fry until browned on both sides. Serve on 
flat platter garnished with sprigs of parsley. 
Pour most of fat from frying-pan, thicken the 
remainder with browned, flour, add to it cup of 
boiling water or milk. Serve in gravy-boat. 

Chicken Fricassee. —Clean and disjoint 
chicken. Wipe each piece. Put in pot, cover 
with boiling water and simmer till tender. To 
the liquor add 1 cup or more hot milk, and 
thicken with flour dissolved in cold water. 
Season well, boil up for a few minutes. Serve 
with dumplings or Royal biscuit. 

Chicken Pat£s. —Chop meat of cold 
chicken coarsely and season well. Make large 
cup rich drawn butter, and while on fire stir in 
2 eggs, boiled hard, minced very fine, also a 
little chopped parsley, then chicken meat. 
Let almost boil. Have ready some pat6-pans 
of good paste, baked quickly to light brown. 
Slip from pans while not, fill with mixture 
and set in oven to heat. Arrange upon dish 
and serve hot. 

Boned Chicken. —Boil a chicken in little 
water as possible until meat will fall from 
bones; remove all skin, chop together light 
and dark parts; season with pepper and salt. 
Boil down liquid in which chicken was boiled, 
then pour it on meat; place in tin, wrap 
tightly in cloth, press with heavy weight 
several hours. Serve cold, cut in thin slices. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


37 


Brown Fricassee of Chicken. —Clean and 
disjoint. Brown in a few spoons hot butter 
or pork fat. Transfer to a kettle. To fat in 
pan add sufficient flour to absorb, stir and 
brown. Gradually add 1 pint hot water, stir 
till thickened, strain over chicken. Cover and 
simmer gently till tender. 

Chicken Pot-pie. —2 large chickens dis¬ 
jointed and boiled in 2 quarts water; add a 
few slices salt pork; season. When nearly 
cooked, add crust made of 1 quart flour, 4 tea¬ 
spoons Royal Baking Powder, 1 saltspoon 
salt; stir in stiff batter with water; drop into 
kettle while boiling; cover close and cook 25 
minutes. 

Chicken Pot-pie, 2. —Disjoint 2 fowls and 
cook in 2 quarts water till very tender. Slip 
out bones and season. Line sides of clean 
kettle with rich biscuit crust (see Biscuits). 
Add chicken and thickened liquor. Stand on 
moderately hot fire. Build fire of dry cobs 
or small sticks round kettle, and keep burning 
till crust is well browned. Put chicken on 
platter and lay crust on it. Old-fashioned 
receipt. 

Make thick dumpling batter (see Dump¬ 
lings). Drop by spoonfuls into thickened 
boiling liquor, cover closely for 20 minutes. 

Chicken Pie.—Take 2 full-grown chickens, 
or more if small, disjoint them, cut backbone, 
etc., small as convenient. Boil them with few 
slices of salt pork in water enough to cover 
them, let boil quite tender, then take out 
breast-bone. After they boil and scum is 
taken off, put in a little onion cut very fine— 
not enough to taste distinctly, just enough to 
flavor a little; rub some parsley very fine 
when dry, or cut fine when green—this gives 
pleasant flavor. Season well with pepper and 
salt, and few ounces good fresh butter. When 
all is cooked well, have liquid enough to cover 
chicken, then beat 2 eggs and stir in some 
sweet cream. Line 5-quart pan with crust 
made like Royal Baking Powder biscuit, only 
more shortening, put in chicken and liquid, 
cover with crust same as lining. Bake till 
crust is done, and you will have a good 
chicken pie. Or bake without bottom crust. 
When done remove top crust to platter, 
pour over it chicken and gravy, serving before 
crust becomes soaked. 

Creamed Chicken. —Make 1 cup cream 
sauce (see Sauces). Prepare 2 cups diced 
cooked chicken. Add to sauce, season well, 
simmer 10 minutes. 

Mock Duck.—3 pounds of round steak cut 
in a single piece. Make a deep slit in the 
middle from the side—fill with a potato and 
onion dressing as for duck; put strips of salt 
pork on top. Bake 3 hours slowly, basting 
often. Make a brown gravy and pour over 
meat when served. 


The great advantage in using Royal 
Baking Powder is in finer, more health¬ 
ful food, more easily made. Royal 
assures good work in the hands of the 
novice, or when haste is imperative. 
The more accurately the receipts are 
followed the surer the result. 


Meat and Fish Sauces 

T TT TTUTE SAUCE.—1 level tablespoon of 
YY butter, same of flour, and 1 cup of 
liquid, either milk and water or milk, 
spoon salt, few grains of pepper. Melt the 
butter in smooth saucepan, stir in the dry 
flour, cook and stir until frothy all over, then 
draw to a cooler part of stove and stir while 
adding the liquid, hot or cold. Cook until 
thick, stirring till smooth. 

Thick White or Cream Sauce. —Make as 
above, but use double quantities of flour and 
butter. 

Bechamel Sauce.—1 tablespoon each of 
flour and butter, % cup each thin cream and 
white stock—chicken or veal—salt and pep¬ 
per to taste. Prepare same manner as white 
sauce. 

Allemande Sauce. —Same as white sauce, 
with addition of 2 raw egg yolks added as 
taken from fire. 

Egg Sauce (for Fish).— 1 cup white sauce, 
2 chopped hard-boiled eggs, 1 tablespoon 
chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon lemon juice or 
vinegar. Add parsley after taking from fire. 

Caper Sauce. —2 tablespoons butter, 1 
tablespoon flour; mix well; pour on boiling 
water till it thickens; add 1 hard-boiled egg 
chopped fine, and 2 tablespoons capers. 

Curry Sauce. —Slowly cook 1 tablespoon 
chopped onion in 1 tablespoon butter 5 min¬ 
utes without coloring. Add 1 teaspoon curry 
powder, cook 2 minutes, add 1 cup white 
sauce, cook 2 minutes longer. 

Soubise Sauce. —Peel 3 large white onions; 
boil very soft in salted water. Drain, rub 
through sieve, add 1 cup white sauce. 

Bread Sauce. —Cook in double boiler for 15 
minutes 1 pint milk, 2 tablespoons chopped 
onion; add 1 tablespoon butter, teaspoon 
salt, % teaspoon pepper, and rub through 
sieve. Brown H cup coarse dry bread crumbs 
in 1 tablespoon butter in frying-pan. Add 
these to sauce as it goes to table. 

Brown Sauce. —In saucepan brown 1 table¬ 
spoon butter until dark, but not burned. 
Add 1 tablespoon flour, stir and brown again. 
Add gradually 1 cup good stock (beef is best) 
or hot water and stir until smooth and thick. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Simmer 
5 minutes. 

Sauce Piquante. —To 1 cup brown sauce 
add 1 tablespoon each of chopped capers and 
pickles and simmer 5 minutes. 

Cranberry Jelly for Poultry.—1 quart 
berries, 1 pint sugar. Pick over berries care¬ 
fully and wash. Put them in granite or 
earthen saucepan with 1 cup of water. Stew 
until easily mashed. Have sugar heating in 
oven. Strain juice from cooked berries, add 
heated sugar. Let all boil up once together, 
then turn into glasses or molds which have 
been wet in cold water. Serve with chicken 
or turkey. 

Spanish Sauce. —Boil 1 quart strong stock 
down one half. Make as directed for brown 
sauce, and add 2 tablespoons sherry. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 




38 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Drawn Butter. — A cup butter, 2 table¬ 
spoons flour; rub thoroughly together, then 
stir into pint boiling water; little salt; pars¬ 
ley if wished. 

Sharp Brown Sauce. — 1 tablespoon butter, 
1 tablespoon flour, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 1 
tablespoon tomato catsup, A cup stock. 
Make same way as brown sauce, add salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Currant Jelly Sauce. —Melt A glass cur¬ 
rant jelly over slow fire. Add 1 cup hot brown 
sauce; stir well and simmer 1 minute. 

Tomato Sauce. —Simmer A can tomatoes, 
1 chopped onion, A teaspoon salt, A teaspoon 
pepper, 1 clove together 10 minutes. Rub 
through sieve. Cook together 1 tablespoon 
each of flour and butter 1 minute, add tomato 
gradually, stir till smooth, and simmer 5 
minutes. 

Hollandaise Sauce. —Cream A cup butter; 
add gradually 2 beaten egg yolks; stir well. 
Add 1 tablespoon lemon juice, dash each of 
salt and cayenne. Add A cup boiling water, 
and stir over boiling water till thick as boiled 
custard. Serve immediately. 

Sauce Tartare. —Make 1 cup mayonnaise 
(see Salads). Chop very fine 1 tablespoon 
each of capers, olives, green cucumber pickle, 
and parsley. Press in a cloth till quite dry. 
Blend gradually with the mayonnaise. For 
fried or broiled fish. 

Maitre d’Hotel Butter. —Cream 2 table¬ 
spoons butter, add gradually X A teaspoon salt, 
H teaspoon white pepper, 1 tablespoon each 
of lemon juice and chopped parsley. Keep 
very cold. Serve with fried fish or broiled 
steak. 

Horse-radish Sauce. —Cream 2 tablespoons 
butter; add 2 tablespoons fresh grated horse¬ 
radish, 1 tablespoon very thick cream, A tea¬ 
spoon lemon juice. Keep very cold. Good 
with corned beef. 

Mint Sauce. — 1 cup chopped green mint 
leaves, A cup vinegar, A cup powdered sugar. 
Mix 1 hour before serving with lamb. 

Salads and Cheese 

AYONNAISE. —Have dishes and in¬ 
gredients very cold. If summer, set 
dish in pan of pounded ice. In soup- 
plate or shallow bowl put yolk 1 raw egg, add 
A teaspoon salt and dash cayenne, a few 
drops of tabasco and a teaspoon Worcester¬ 
shire sauce, stir with fork till very thick. 
Add few drops olive oil and stir; add more 
oil, few drops at a time, until mixture balls on 
fork. Thin with few drops lemon juice or 
vinegar, then add more oil. Alternate in this 
way until 1 cup olive oil is used and dressing 
is thick and glossy, like a jelly. . About 3 
tablespoons lemon juice or 2 of vinegar will 
be needed, according to its acidity. Always 
stir in the same direction. Keep covered and 
on ice until needed. 

French Dressing. —Mix A teaspoon salt, 
dash white pepper, and 3 tablespoons olive oil. 
Stir for few minutes, then gradually add 1 


tablespoon vinegar, stirring rapidly until mix¬ 
ture is slightly thickened and vinegar cannot 
be noticed. Mixture will separate after about 
20 minutes. * 

Boiled Dressing.—3 beaten eggs, 1 cup 
rich milk, % teaspoon dry mustard, 2 tea¬ 
spoons salt, 2 dashes cayenne, 2 tablespoons 
olive oil or melted butter, A cup vinegar. 
Cook in double boiler till thick as custard. 
Strain and keep in cold place. 

Cream Dressing. — 1 cup cream, 1 table¬ 
spoon flour, 3 tablespoons vinegar, 2 table¬ 
spoons butter, A teaspoon powdered sugar, 1 
teaspoon salt, A teaspoon pepper, V 2 teaspoon 
dry mustard, whites 2 eggs. Cook in double 
boiler, stirring constantly, and adding 
whipped whites just before taking from fire. 

Celery Salad.—2 bunches celery, 1 table¬ 
spoon salad oil, 4 tablespoons vinegar, 1 small 
teaspoon fine sugar, pepper and salt to taste. 
Wash and scrape celery; lay in ice-cold water 
until dinner-time. Then cut into inch 
lengths, add above seasoning. Stir well to¬ 
gether with fork and serve in salad-bowl. 

Chicken Salad. —Cut cold roast or boiled 
chicken in small dice, add A as much 
blanched celery cut fine, season with salt and 
pepper. Mix with French dressing and set 
away for an hour or more. Just before serv¬ 
ing stir in some mayonnaise slightly thinned 
with lemon juice or French dressing, arrange 
on lettuce leaves and cover with thick mayon¬ 
naise. 

Cream Cheese and Pimento Salad. —Add 

to Philadelphia cream cheese (or fine cottage 
cheese will answer) as many chopped pimen¬ 
tos as will give decided flavor, roll into balls 
about size of walnut and place 3 or 4 on let¬ 
tuce leaves for individual plates. Pour over 
all either French dressing or thin mayonnaise. 
The mixture is also excellent for sandwiches. 
The pimentos, or sweet Spanish peppers, 
may be bought put up in oil in small cans. 

Lobster Salad. —Tear the meat of lobster 
into shreds with two forks, and let it get cold. 
Mix with blanched celery cut in small pieces— 
A celery, A lobster. Mix with mayonnaise. 
Make cups of small blanched leaves of lettuce, 
fill with salad, garnish with mayonnaise, 
capers, and lobster coral. Keep on ice until 
served. 

Salmon Salad. —Remove bones and skin 
from can salmon. Drain off liquid. Mix 
with French dressing or thin mayonnaise; set 
aside for a while. Finish same as lobster 
salad. Other fish salads may be prepared in 
same manner. 

Potato and Egg Salad. —Hard boil 3 eggs 
30 minutes, shell and cut fine with silver 
knife. Boil 3 or 4 potatoes. Dice while hot, 
mix with cut eggs and add French dressing. 
Let stand till cold. Serve on bed of water¬ 
cress with more French dressing or boiled 
dressing thinned with vinegar. 

Cold Slaw. —Prepare A quantity boiled 
dressing. While hot pour over 1 quart shaved 
cabbage, cover closely; set away till cold. 
Red cabbage may also be used. 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


39 


Tomato Salad. —Pare with sharp knife. 
Slice and lay in salad-bowl. Make dressing as 
follows: Work up saltspoon each of salt, pep¬ 
per, and fresh made mustard with 2 table¬ 
spoons of salad oil, adding only a few drops at 
a time, and, when thoroughly mixed, whip in 
with an egg, beaten, 4 tablespoons vinegar; 
toss up with fork. 

Cucumber and Onion Salad. —Pare cucum¬ 
bers and lay in ice-water 1 hour; do same 
with onions in another bowl. Then slice 
them in proportion of 1 onion to 3 large cu¬ 
cumbers; arrange in salad-bowl, and season 
with vinegar, pepper, and salt. 

Potato Salad; —Make V 2 amount of boiled 
dressing given; when cold, thin with vinegar 
or lemon juice, and add 2 tablespoons onion 
juice. Pour over diced boiled potatoes while 
hot. When cold serve with watercress or 
field salad, garnishing with diced pickled 
beets and sliced hard boiled egg. 

Cheese Straws. —Roll out pie crust, No. 5, 
very thin. Sprinkle with grated sharp cheese 
and a dust of cayenne, fold in three, roll out, 
and dust a second time with cheese. Fold, 
roll out quite thin, cut in fine strips or straws 
with jagging-iron, lay on flat pans and bake 
in very moderate oven. 

Welsh Rarebit. —Select richest and best 
American cheese, the milder the better, as 
melting brings out strength. To make 5 rare¬ 
bits, take 1 pound cheese, grate and put in tin 
or porcelain-lined saucepan; add ale (old is 
best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, 
say about a wine-glass to each rarebit. Place 
over fire, stir until it is melted. Have slice of 
toast ready for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); 
put a slice on each plate, and pour cheese 
enough over each piece to cover it. Serve 
while hot. 

V* 

Eggs 

OFT AND HARD BOILED EGGS.— For 

soft boiled drop into boiling water and 
boil 3 to 3H minutes. A better way is 
to have water boiling in a saucepan. Take 
from fire, add eggs quickly, cover, and let 
stand off fire away from drafts from 8 to 10 
minutes, according to freshness of eggs. 

Hard boiled eggs should be simmered at 
least 20 minutes. This gives mealy yolks, 
which digest more readily than sodden ones. 

Poached Eggs. —Toast small slice of bread 
for each egg; trim and lay on hot platter. 
Have frying-pan partly filled with salted 
water. When simmering, carefully break in 1 
egg at a time. Baste with the water until 
white is firm, take up with ski mm er, trim 
edge of white and slip on toast. 

Scrambled Eggs. —Beat number of eggs 
required, add 1 tablespoon of milk or cream 
for each egg, add salt and pepper. Melt 
small piece of butter in hot shallow pan, turn 
in beaten eggs, etc., and stir till set. Serve on 
toast if liked. Chopped boiled ham is a good 
addition before cooking. 


Omelet.—Break 3 eggs in bowl; add 1 tea¬ 
spoon cold water. Beat with fork till mixed. 
Add A teaspoon salt. Turn into very hot 
buttered pan, shake and stir till eggs begin to 
set. Let form, fold and turn out on hot 
platter. 

Fancy Omelets.—Finely chopped cooked 
meats, vegetables cut fine, chopped parsley, 
etc., may be added to plain omelet and dish 
named according to what is added, as ham 
omelet, omelet with peas, etc. 

Omelet Souffle.—Break 6 eggs into sep¬ 
arate cups; beat 4 of the yolks, mix with 
them teaspoon flour, 3 tablespoons powdered 
sugar, very little salt; flavor with extract 
lemon or any other flavors that may be pre¬ 
ferred. Whisk the whites of the 6 eggs to firm 
froth; mix them lightly with yolks; pour the 
mixture into a greased pan or dish; bake in 
quick- oven. When well risen and lightly 
browned on the top it is done; roll out in 
dish, sift pulverized sugar over and send to 
table. You can also pour some rum over it 
and set it on fire, as for an omelet au rhum. 

Plain and Fancy Baked Eggs.—Butter 
small stoneware dishes. Carefully break egg 
in each. Add salt, pepper, and bit of butter. 
Bake in oven till white is set. 

May be varied by buttering dish and add¬ 
ing chopped parsley or ham, soaked bread 
crumbs, chopped onions, or a little stewed 
tomato. 

Scotch Woodcock.—Make a white sauce 
of 1 tablespoon of flour and 1 of butter 
blended with a cup of milk and a little salt. 
When smooth add 6 hard boiled eggs chopped 
fine, a dash of cayenne, a little mustard, and 
three tablespoons of bloater paste, deviled 
ham or minced ham. 

Vegetables 

INTS ON COOKING VEGETABLES.— 

First—Have them fresh as possible. 
Summer vegetables should be cooked 
on same day they are gathered. Second— 
Look them over and wash well, cutting out 
all decayed or unripe parts. Third—Lay 
them, when peeled, in cold water, for some 
time before using. Fourth—Always let 

water boil before putting them in, and con¬ 
tinue to boil until done. 

Turnips —Should be peeled, and boiled 
from 40 minutes to an hour. 

Beets. —Boil from 1 to 2 hours; then put in 
cold water and slip skin off. 

Spinach. —Boil 20 minutes. 

Parsnips. —Boil from 20 to 30 minutes. 

Onions. —Best boiled in 2 or 3 waters, add¬ 
ing milk the last time. 

String Beans. —Should be boiled \ X A hours. 

Shell Beans. —Require an hour. 

Green Corn. —Steam covered 10 or 15 min¬ 
utes. 

Green Peas —Should be boiled in little 
water as possible; boil 20 minutes. 



ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


40 THE ROYAL BAKER 

Asparagus .—Same as peas; serve on toast 
with cream gravy. 

Winter Squash .—Cut in pieces and boil 20 
to 40 minutes in small quantity of water; 
when done, press water out, mash smooth, 
season with butter, pepper, and salt. 

Cabbage .—Should be boiled from 1 to 2 
hours in plenty of water; salt while boiling. 

Asparagus on Toast. —Have stalks of equal 
length; scrape lower ends; tie in small 
bunches with tape. Cook 20 to 30 minutes, 
according to size. Dip 6 or 8 slices dry toast 
in asparagus liquor, lay on hot platter, place 
asparagus on them, and cover with a white or 
drawn butter sauce; in making sauce use 
asparagus liquor and water or milk in equal 
quantities. 

String Beans. —Top and tail the beans, and 
strip off all strings carefully; break into short 
lengths and wash. Boil in salted water until 
tender—from 1A to 3 hours. Drain, season 
with butter, salt, and pepper. 

Kidney Beans, Brown Sauce. —Cook 1 pint 
fresh shelled beans in salted water till tender. 
Drain; shake in saucepan with 1 teaspoon 
butter 3 minutes. Add 1 cup brown sauce 
(see Sauces), and simmer 5 minutes. 

Beets, Cream Sauce. —Wash and boil beets 
till tender. Rub off skins and slice or dice. 
To 1 pint add 1 cup white sauce (see Sauces); 
simmer 5 minutes. Other root vegetables 
may be finished same way. 

Boiled Cabbage. —Strip off outer leaves, 
cut in quarters, cut out stalk. Soak in salted 
water 1 hour. Drain. Have kettle of rapidly 
boiling water. Add A teaspoon baking soda 
and cabbage. Cover and keep at galloping 
boil. Unless very old, cabbage will be done 
in 1 hour. Press out all water; season well; 
put in hot dish. 

Cabbage a la Cauliflower. —Cut cabbage in 
quarters or smaller sections, rejecting hard 
inner core, and freshen in cold water. Cook 
uncovered in boiling, well salted water about 
30 minutes, or until tender. The addition of 
a bit of soda reduces odor and softens cabbage. 
Keep at a galloping boil. Press out all water 
by draining through colander, chop fine with 
large knife. Return to fire, add enough milk 
to not quite cover, a generous piece of butter, 
a very little pepper and dredge lightly with 
flour. Cook until flour is well done, stirring 
often to prevent milk from burning. Any 
left over is excellent with addition of 1 or 2 
beaten eggs, put in buttered earthen dish, 
sprinkled on top with stale bread crumbs and 
baked in a moderate oven until egg is set. 

Com Pudding. —To 1 can com chopped 
fine or 1 pint com pulp cut from the cob add 
2 beaten eggs, V 2 cup milk, V 2 teaspoon salt, 
a speck of pepper. Bake in a buttered pud¬ 
ding-dish, moderate oven, 20 or 30 minutes 
or until set like custard. Serve hot with 
meat. 

Fried Egg Plant. —Wipe the egg plant, cut 
in 1^-inch slices, soak in salted cold water 1 
hour. Dip each slice in beaten egg and fry 
in butter until inside is very soft, outside 
brown. 


AND PASTRY COOK 

Carrots and other Root Vegetables.— 

Scrape or pare carrots, parsnips, turnips. 
Dice and cook gently in unsalted water till 
tender. Drain and reheat in seasoned butter, 

1 tablespoon to 1 pint, or in a drawn butter or 
white sauce. In early summer, when roots 
are small, water should be salted. Onions 
should also be boiled in salted water, then 
finished as here directed. 

Stewed Cora. —Husk com. Draw sharp 
knife down center of each row of grains; press 
out pulp with back of knife. To 1 pint add A 
teaspoon salt, A teaspoon sugar, dash pepper, 
A cup cream or rich milk. Heat and s imm er 
10 minutes. 

Fried Onions. —Peel (holding onions and 
hands under water to prevent tears), wash 
and cut crosswise so as to form undivided 
rings. Flour them, fry 5 or 6 minutes. Drain, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve with 
beefsteak. 

Fried Potatoes. —Pare raw potatoes; cut 
thin as wafers with sharp knife or patent 
slicer. Soak 20 minutes in cold water; dry 
on towel. Throw a handful at a time in 
kettle of smoking-hot fat; skim out fast as 
browned and drain on unglazed paper. 
Sprinkle with salt. 

Fried Potatoes, 2.— Cut cold boiled pota¬ 
toes in thick slices, season and saut6 in a little 
hot fat in a frying-pan. 

Mashed Potatoes. —Boil potatoes in salted 
water; while hot put through ricer or mash 
with fork till smooth. Season with salt and 
pepper; to 1 pint add 1 tablespoon butter and 

2 tablespoons hot milk. Beat till light, heap 
in hot dish. 

Baked Potatoes. —Scrub potatoes of same 
size. Bake in very hot oven until tender. 
Press till skin breaks slightly, serve hot with 
butter. 

Potato Croquettes. —Mix together 1 pint 
hot mashed potato, 1 teaspoon salt, A tea¬ 
spoon pepper, 1 teaspoon onion juice, 1 table¬ 
spoon butter, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 
yolks 2 beaten eggs. Stir over fire till mixture 
leaves sides of saucepan. When cool, shape 
into croquettes, dip each in beaten egg, roll 
in crumbs, and fry brown in deep kettle of 
smoking-hot fat. 

Potato Puff. —Press boiled potatoes 
through vegetable press. For each cupful 
add 1 tablespoon of butter, A cup milk or 
cream, 1 egg, yolk and white beaten sepa¬ 
rately. Season with salt and pepper. Mix 
thoroughly, fold in beaten whites last. 
Bake in 1 dish, or individual dishes, long 
enough to cook the egg, and serve at once. 

Scalloped Potatoes. —Butter a baking- 
dish, pare potatoes and slice thin, put in dish 
a layer of potatoes and sprinkle with salt, 
pepper and a little butter; then another layer 
of'potatoes, etc., until dish is nearly full. 
Then fill with milk or cream. Bake 1 A. hours. 

Stewed Squash. —Pare small squash, re¬ 
move seeds, boil in salted water till tender. 
Drain, mash, season, and stir over slow fire 
till quite dry. Add butter and seasoning to 
taste. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 



THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


41 


Lyonnaise Potatoes.s-Heat 1 tablespoon 
butter in frying-pan. Add 1 tablespoon 
chopped onion. When pale brown add 1 pint 
diced boiled potatoes, seasoned. Shake till 
butter is absorbed; potatoes should not color. 
Add 1 tablespoon chopped parsley and take 
up. 

Creamed Potatoes. —To 3 cups diced 
boiled potatoes add 1 pint cream sauce (see 
Sauces), more seasoning if necessary, and 
simmer 10 minutes. Or, season cold sliced 
potatoes, cover with milk, and stew till milk is 
reduced one half, then add a little butter. 

Stewed Tomatoes. —Scald and skin toma¬ 
toes, remove hard ends and cut up. Stew in 
agate saucepan till tender, add salt, pepper, 
and sugar to taste, also 1 teaspoon butter to 
each pint. If liked, thicken with fine crumbs 
or with a little flour dissolved in cold water. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. —Choose large toma¬ 
toes; cut off stem ends and take out centers. 
Fill with stuffing (see Stuffings), lay on but¬ 
tered baking-pan, and bake in hot oven 30 
minutes. Peppers, summer squash, large ripe 
cucumbers, onions, and egg plant may be pre¬ 
pared in same way. 

Panned Tomatoes. —Cut firm tomatoes in 
halves. For 4, heat 1 tablespoon butter in 
frying-pan. Dip tomatoes in flour, put cut 
side down in pan, cover, and cook over hot 
fire until browned. Transfer to hot dish, 
sprinkle 1 tablespoon flour in pan, stir, add 1 
cup milk; stir till thickened, season, boil 1 
minute, and pour round tomatoes. 

Mashed Turnips. —Pare and dice turnips, 
boil in unsalted water till tender. Mash, add¬ 
ing salt, pepper, and butter to taste. If cut 
small they will cook in less time and be less 
odorous. 

Ragout of Vegetables. —Parboil 1 carrot, 
1 turnip, 2 potatoes, 2 ears of corn, 1 cup of 
lima beans, and the same of peas, 1 onion, and 
with them Vi pound of fat salt pork. Drain 
off the water and lay aside the pork. Slice 
carrots, turnips, potatoes, and onion. Put 
into a saucepan with a cup of some good meat 
soup before it has been thickened. Season 
well; cut the com from the cob and add with 
the peas, beans, and a sliced tomato as soon 
as the rest are hot. Stew all together hour. 
Stir in a great lump of butter rolled in flour^ 
Stew 5 minutes, and serve in a deep dish. 

Dried Sweet Com.—Soak 1 pint overnight. 
Drain, add fresh cold water, and cook slowly. 
When tender drain, add V 2 cup rich milk, 1 
tablespoon butter, salt and pepper to taste, 
simmer 10 minutes. 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese.—Break in 2- 
inch pieces Vi package of macaroni, which 
will be about a cupful; cook until tender in 
rapidly boiling salted water as directed above. 
Have ready one cup rich, stale, grated cheese 
and 1 pint white sauce. In a buttered baking- 
dish place layer of macaroni, cover with 
sauce, add layer of cheese. Repeat till all is 
used, having top layer of cheese. Sift over 
top fine stale bread crumbs, dot with bits 
of butter, bake till cheese is melted and 
top slightly brown. 


Boiled Rice. —Wash 1 cup rice through 
several waters till water runs off clear. Have 
at least 4 quarts rapidly boiling water in 
kettle. Add rice and 1 tablespoon salt Boil 
at a gallop until rice is tender—this takes 12 
to 20 minutes according to kind and age of 
rice. Drain, set colander over boiling water 
for 10 minutes or more to steam. Each grain 
will be distinct yet tender. 

Macaroni. —Have a large kettle nearly full 
of rapidly boiling salted water. Break maca¬ 
roni into 2- or 3-inch lengths, drop into the 
water, and boil as directed for rice until ten¬ 
der, which will take from 30 to 45 minutes. 
Drain in colander, then pour cold water in 
colander to remove pastiness. Reheat in a 
little butter, or in a white, brown, or tomato 
sauce. Before sending to table, sprinkle 
thickly with grated cheese or stir the cheese 
through it. 

Spaghetti, vermicelli, or any of the forms of 
paste may be prepared in the same way. 

Pickles, Etc, 

U SE glass bottles for pickles, also wooden 
knives and forks in preparation of 
them. Fill bottles 3 parts full with 
articles to be pickled, then fill bottle with 
vinegar. Use saucepans lined with earthen¬ 
ware, or stone pipkins, to boil vinegar in. 

Chow Chow. —1 quart large cucumbers, 1 
quart small cucumbers, 2 quarts onions, 4 
heads cauliflower, 6 green peppers, 1 quart 
green tomatoes, 1 gallon vinegar, 1 pound 
mustard, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 ounce 
turmeric. Put all in salt and water one night; 
cook all the vegetables in brine until tender, 
except large cucumbers. Pour over vinegar 
and spices. 

Pickling Cauliflowers. —Take whitest and 
closest cauliflowers in bunches; spread on 
earthen dish, cover them with salt, and let 
stand 3 days to draw out all the water. Then 
put in jars, pour boiling salt and water over 
them, let stand overnight; then drain with a 
hair-sieve, and put in glass jars; fill up jars 
with vinegar; cover tight. 

Piccalilly. —1 peck green tomatoes, sliced; 
Y peck onions, sliced; 1 cauliflower, 1 peck 
small cucumbers. Leave in salt and water 24 
hours; then put in kettle with handful scraped 
horse-radish, 1 ounce turmeric, 1 ounce cloves 
(whole), Y pound pepper (whole), 1 ounce 
cassia-buds or cinnamon, 1 pound white mus¬ 
tard seed, 1 pound English mustard. Place in 
kettle in layers, and cover with cold vinegar. 
Boil 15 minutes, constantly stirring. 

Pickled Red Cabbage.—Slice it into a col¬ 
ander, sprinkle each layer with salt; let it 
drain 2 days, then put into a jar, pour boiling 
vinegar enough to cover, put in a few slices of 
red beet-root. Choose purple red cabbage. 
Those who like flavor of spice will boil it with 
the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in bunches, and 
thrown in after being salted, will look red and 
beautiful. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 



42 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Tomato Catsup. —1 gallon tomatoes 
(strained), 6 tablespoons salt, 3 tablespoons 
black pepper, 1 tablespoon cloves, 2 table¬ 
spoons cinnamon, 2 tablespoons allspice, 134 
pints vinegar; boil down one half. 1 peck 
tomatoes will make 1 gallon strained. 

Walnut Catsup. —Take green walnuts be¬ 
fore the shell is formed (usually in a proper 
state early in August). Grind them or pound 
them in an earthen or marble mortar. Squeeze 
out the juice through a coarse cloth, and add 
to every gallon of juice, 1 pound of ancho¬ 
vies, 1 pound salt, 4 ounces cayenne pepper, 2 
ounces black pepper, 1 ounce each ginger 
cloves, and mace, and the root of one horse¬ 
radish. Boil all together till reduced to half 
the quantity. Pour off, and when cold bottle 
tight. Use in 3 months. 


Beverages 

OILED COFFEE. —For 4 heaping table¬ 
spoons ground coffee allow 1 quart 
freshly boiling water and 34 white 1 raw 
egg. Mix the egg white with 3 tablespoons 
cold water, beating with fork. Add coffee and 
stir till well wet. Scald coffee-pot, put in pre¬ 
pared coffee. Pour in boiling water, cover 
spout, and boil 5 minutes. Pour in quickly 
34 cup cold water, let stand 3 minutes to 
settle. Strain into hot pot or have strainer 
on table. 

Coffee for Six Persons. —Take 1 full cup 

ground coffee, 1 egg, a little cold water; stir 
together, add 1 pint boiling water, boil up; 
then add another pint boiling water, and set 
back to settle before serving. 

French Coffee. — 1 quart water to 1 cup 
very fine ground coffee. Put coffee grounds 
in bowl; pour over about 34 pint cold water 
and let stand for 15 minutes; bring remain¬ 
ing water to a boil. Take coffee in bowl, 
strain through fine sieve, then take French 
coffee-pot, put coffee grounds in strainer at 
top of French pot, leaving water in bowl. 
Then take boiling water and pour over coffee 
very slowly. Then set coffee-pot on stove 5 
minutes; must not boil. Take off and pour 
in cold water from bowl that coffee was first 
soaked in, to settle. Serve in another pot. 
The French, who have the reputation of mak¬ 
ing the best coffee, use 3 parts Java, 1 part 
Mocha. 

Vienna Coffee. —Equal parts Mocha and 
Java coffee; allow 1 heaping tablespoon of 
coffee to each person, and 2 extra to make 
good strength. Mix 1 egg with grounds, pour 
on coffee 34 as much boiling water as will be 
needed, let coffee froth, then stir down 
grounds and let boil 5 minutes; then let coffee 
stand where it will keep hot, but not boil, for 
5 or 10 minutes, and add rest of water. To 1 
pint cream add white of an egg, well beaten; 
this is to be put in cups with sugar, and hot 
coffee added. 

Cocoa. —The usual rule is 1 teaspoon cocoa 
to each cup. Mix dry cocoa with little cold 
water, add scalded milk or boiling water, and 
boil 1 minute. 


Tea. —Water for tea should be freshly 
heated and just boiling. Teas are of differing 
strengths, but a safe rule is 1 teaspoon dry tea 
to 34 pint boiling water. Scald tea-pot; put 
in dry tea and cover for 1 minute. Add boil¬ 
ing water, cover closely. Let stand 3 to 6 
minutes, strain off into second hot pot. A 
wadded cozy will keep tea hot for a long time 
off the fire. 

Chocolate.—1 square unsweetened choco¬ 
late, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons hot 
water. Grate chocolate, boil all together till 
smooth, add gradually 1 pint scalded milk, 
cook in double boiler 5 minutes. Some like 
to add 1 teaspoon vanilla. It can be made 
stronger by using more chocolate. 

Cookery for the Sick 

A LWAYS prepare food for the sick in the 
neatest and most careful manner. In 
sickness the senses are unusually acute, 
and far more susceptible to carelessness, neg¬ 
ligence, and mistakes in the preparation and 
serving of food than when in health. 

Com Meal Gruel. —Mix 1 tablespoon corn 
meal, 34 teaspoon salt, and 2 tablespoons cold 
water. Add 1 pint boiling water, simmer 
slowly 1 hour. In serving bowl put 2 table¬ 
spoons cream, 1 lump sugar, strain in gruel, 
stir for a moment, and serve. 

Flour and arrowroot gruel is made in the 
same way, but cooked only 10 minutes. 

Farina gruel is made with milk and cooked 
1 hour in double boiler. 

Boil oatmeal gruel 1 hour and strain. 
Barley Water. —Wash 2 tablespoons pearl 
barley, scald with boiling water, boil 5 min¬ 
utes, strain. Add 2 quarts cold water, simmer 
till reduced 34- Strain, add lemon juice to 
taste. Good in fevers. 

Wine Whey. —Scald 1 cup milk, add 1 cup 
wine, cook gently till it wheys. Strain 
through cheese-cloth. 

Beef Tea. —Chop very fine 1 pound lean 
beef round. Cover with 34 pint cold water. 
Stand in cold place 1 hour. Set over hot 
water, stir till liquid begins to turn color. 
Strain, add pinch salt. To reheat, set cup in 
pan of hot water. 

Restorative Jelly.—Put in glass jar 34 box 
granulated gelatine, 1 tablespoon granulated 
gum arabic, 2 cloves, 3 tablespoons sugar, 2 
tablespoons lemon juice, 1 cup port wine. 
Stand in kettle cold w r ater, heat till all is dis¬ 
solved. Strain into shallow dish. Chill. Cut 
in 34-inch squares. 

Sunshine Orange.—Soak an orange in hot 
water for half an hour, or so until it is heated 
to the core. The skin will loosen and come 
off like a glove, and the pulp will be sweet 
with the sweetness that comes, not from 
sugar, but the sun. 


Royal Baking Powder adds to the 
quality and healthfulness of the food. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 




43 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Candies 


G RANULATED sugar is preferable. 
Candy should not be stirred while boil¬ 
ing. Cream tartar should not be added 
until syrup begins to boil. Butter should be 
put in when candy is almost done. Flavors 
are more delicate when not boiled in candy 
but added afterward. 

Butter Scotch. —2 cups sugar, 2 table¬ 
spoons water, piece butter size of an egg. 
Boil without stirring until it hardens on a 
spoon. Pour out on buttered plates to cool. 

Cream Candy. —1 pound white sugar, 3 
tablespoons vinegar, 1 teaspoon extract 
lemon, 1 teaspoon cream tartar. Add little 
water to moisten sugar, boil until brittle. 
Put in extract, then turn quickly out on 
buttered plates. When cool, pull until white, 
and cut in squares. 

Cream Walnuts. —2 cups sugar, % cup 
water. Boil without stirring until it will 
spin a thread; flavor with extract vanilla. 
Set off into dish with cold water in; when at 
blood heat stir briskly until white and 
creamy, then knead and work with the 
hands for several minutes. Have walnuts 
shelled; make cream into small round 
cakes with your fingers; press half a walnut 
on either side, and drop into sifted granu¬ 
lated sugar. For cream dates, take fresh 
dates, remove stones, and fill center of dates 
with this same cream. Drop into sugar. 

Creamed Nuts.—Mix 1 pound confec¬ 
tioners’ sugar, white 1 unbeaten egg, 1 tea¬ 
spoon vanilla, and 2 teaspoons cold water to 
a stiff paste. Shape in little balls, press be¬ 
tween halved walnut or other nut meats. 
Stoned dates and large raisins may be filled 
with this cream, or it may be mixed with 
chopped nuts, shaped in bars, and cut in 
squares. 

Butter Taffy.—Boil 3 cups brown sugar, A 
cup molasses, A cup each hot water and vin¬ 
egar. When it crisps in cold water, add 2 
tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla, cook 
3 minutes, cool on buttered pans. 

Hickory Nut Candy. — 1 cup hickory nuts 
(meats), 2 cups sugar, A cup water. Boil 
sugar and water, without stirring, until thick 
enough to spin a thread; flavor with extract 
lemon or vanilla. Set off into cold water; 
stir quickly until white; then stir in nuts; 
turn into flat tin; when cold cut into small 
squares. 


Candied Popcorn. —Put into an iron kettle 
1 tablespoon butter, 3 tablespoons water, 1 
tea-cup white pulverized sugar. Boil until 
ready to candy, then throw in 3 quarts nicely 
popped corn. Stir briskly till candy is evenly 
distributed over corn. Take kettle from fire, 
stir until it is cooled a little and you have 
each grain separate and crystallized with 
sugar, taking care that corn does not bum. 
Nuts of any kind may be prepared in same 
way. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy. — 1 cocoanut, 1A 
pounds granulated sugar. Put sugar and 
milk of cocoanut together, heat slowly until 
sugar is melted; then boil 5 minutes; add 
cocoanut (finely grated), boil 10 minutes 
longer, stir constantly to keep from burning. 
Pour on buttered plates, cut in squares. Will 
take about 2 days to harden. Use prepared 
cocoanut when other cannot be had. 

Chocolate Caramels.—2 cups molasses, 1 
cup brown sugar, 1 cup cream or milk, A 
pound chocolate, piece of butter size of an 
egg. Beat all together; boil until it thickens 
in water; turn into large flat tins, well but¬ 
tered. When nearly cold, cut into small 
squares. 

Ice Cream Candy. —3 cups sugar, crushed 
or cut loaf, a little less than A cup vinegar, 1 A 
cups cold water, piece of butter size of a wal¬ 
nut, flavor with extract vanilla. Boil until it 
hardens, then pull until white. 

Molasses Candy.—3 cups yellow coffee 
sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup water, A tea¬ 
spoon cream tartar, butter size of a walnut. 
Follow directions for cream candy 

Velvet Molasses Candy.—Put l A pounds 
sugar, X A pint molasses, A pint water, A cup 
vinegar, in agate kettle. Heat; when boiling 
add A teaspoon cream tartar, boil till it crisps 
in cold water. Stir; when almost done add A 
pound butter, A teaspoon soda. Cool in but¬ 
tered pan and pull. 

Peanut Brittle. —Shell and chop roasted 
nuts to measure 1 pint. Put 2 pounds granu¬ 
lated sugar in clean frying-pan. Stir over 
slow fire. It will lump, then gradually melt. 
When pale coffee color and clear add nuts and 
pour quickly on buttered tin sheet. Roll thin 
as possible. When cold break up. 

Fudge. —Cook 3 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 
and 1 tablespoon butter. When sugar is 
melted add 4 or 5 tablespoons cocoa. Stir and 
boil 15 minutes. Take from fire, add 1 tea¬ 
spoon vanilla, stir till creamy, pour on but¬ 
tered plates, cut in squares. 


ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 

A unique manual of cookery; contains nearly one thousand practical receipts, with full 
directions for preparing every kind of food necessary for the family. Embraces rich, medium 
and plain dishes in ample variety. This book contains more numerous and elaborate receipts 
than the average two or three dollar cook book. The Royal Baking Powder Company desires 
that every user of Royal Powder may have a copy. Write us the name of any friend you think 
would like it. Sent free upon request. 

“MY FAVORITE RECEIPT" 

A collection of 3000 valuable receipts, contributed by our lady patrons from their own 
"favorite” receipts for cooking and methods of making their choicest table substantial and 
delicacies. Each receipt has attached the name and address of its contributor. The book 
embodies undoubtedly the cookery wisdom of the country. Handsomely printed and bound, 
and mailed postage free to any address on receipt of price, fifty cents, in money or stamps. 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO., New York, U. S. A. 

ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 



44 


THE ROYAL BAKER AND PASTRY COOK 


Glossary of Terms Used 
in Cookery 

A LA. A la mode de, after the style or 
fashion of. 

Anglaise (4 1’). English style. Some¬ 
thing plain roasted or plain boiled. 

Aspic. Savory jelly. 

Au Gratin. Covered with sauce, bread¬ 
crumbs, etc., and browned in the oven 
or under a salamander. 

Beamaise. A word much used in cookery 
for a rich white herb sauce. 

Bechamel. French white sauce. Recog¬ 
nized as one of the four foundation 
sauces. The name of this sauce is sup¬ 
posed to come from the Marquis de 
Bechamel. 

Bisque. Name given to certain soups 
usually made with shellfish. 
Blanc-Mange. A white sweet food. A 
sweet cream set in a mould. 

Bouch€es. Small puff-paste patties (petit 
pat4s), small enough to be a traditional 
mouthful only. 

Bouillon. A plain, clear soup. Unclarified 
beef broth. 

Brais6 or Braising. A slow cooking proc¬ 
ess. Meat cooked in a closely covered 
stewpan (braising pan or braisifere) to 
prevent evaporation, so that the meat 
thus cooked retains not only its ®wn 
juices, but also those of the articles added 
for flavoring. 

Caramel. Burnt sugar. A substance made 
by boiling sugar to a dark brown. 
Charlotte. Name of a hot or cold sweet 
dish. 

Compote. Usually applied to a delicately 
prepared dish of stewed fruit, or fruits 
and jelly. 

Consommig. Clear, strong gravy soup. 
The clarified liquor in which meat or 
poultry has been boiled. 

Croquettes and Rissoles. Names of small, 
light entries (prepared with minced 
meat, etc.) 

Croustades. Shapes of bread fried, or 
baked paste crusts, used for serving 
game, minces, or meats in or upon. 
Croutons. Thin slices of bread cut into 
shapes and fried, used for garnishing 
dishes and in soups. 

Dessert. The remains of a meal. Now in¬ 
dicating fruits and sweetmeats served 
„ after dinner. 

Eclair. A French pastry filled with cream. 
Emincg. Finely sliced or shred. 

Entree. A course of dishes, or comer dish 
for the first course. 

Escalope. Thin, round steaks of veal, 
called “collops.” 

Espagnole. A rich brown sauce; the foun¬ 
dation of nearly all brown sauces. 

Filet. The under cut of a loin of beef, mut¬ 
ton, veal, pork, and game. 

Foie Gras. Fat goose liver. 

Forcemeat. Meat for stuffing. 

Fricassee. A white stew of chicken or veal. 


Fritter, Beignets. Anything dipped in bat¬ 
ter, crumbed, or egged, and fried. 

Gateau. A round, flat cake, generally 
decorated. 

Glace. Frozen, iced. 

Gumbo. The American term for okra soup 
or other preparations from okra. 

Hors-d’oeuvre. Appetizers. Dainty rel¬ 
ishes, served cold before the soup. 

Liaison. The mixture of yolk of eggs, 
cream, etc., used for thickening or bind¬ 
ing white soups and sauces. 

Macedoine. A mixture of various kinds of 
vegetables or fruits, cut in even-shaped 
discs. 

Maitre d’Hotel (4 la). Hotel steward’s 
fashion. Also the name of a flavoring 
butter, mixed with chopped parsley and 
seasoned with lemon-juice, pepper and 
salt. 

Mayonnaise. A cold salad sauce, or dress¬ 
ing. 

Menu. The bill of fare. Literally the word 
means minute detail of courses. 

Meringue. Light pastry, made of white of 
eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. 

Nougat. Almond rock candy. 

Paprika. Hungarian red pepper; less pun¬ 
gent than the Spanish pepper. 

Pat€. A pie; pastry; a savory meat pas¬ 
try, or a raised pie. 

Potage, Soup. Broth or liquor; the first 
course of a dinner. 

Potpourri. A stew of various kinds of 
meats and spices. 

Pur6e. A smooth pulp; mashed vege¬ 
tables; thick soups. 

Ragofit. A rich stew of meat, highly sea¬ 
soned. 

Releve. A course of a dinner, consisting 
of large joints of meat, game, etc. 

Remoulade. A cold sauce, flavored with 
savory herbs and mustard, used as salad 
dressing, etc. 

Rdti. The course of a meal which is served 
before the entremets. 

Roux. A preparation of butter and flour, 
used for thickening soups and sauces. 

Salmi or Salmis. A compote of game set to 
finish cooking when half roasted. 

Sauter (6e). To toss over the fire, in a 
saut4 or frying pan, in little butter or fat; 
anything that requires a sharp fire and 
quick cooking. 

Sorbet. An iced Turkish drink; also a 
partly set water ice. 

Souffle. Literally “puffed up.” A very 
light baked or steamed pudding, an 
omelet. 

Souffle Glace. A very light, sweet cream 
mixture, iced and served in cases. 

Tartare. A cold sauce, made of yolks of 
eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, etc., 
served with fried fish or cold meats. 

Timbale. A kind of crusted hash baked in 
a mould. 

Tutti-Frutti. A mixture of various kinds 
of fruits or cooked vegetables. 

Vol-au-vent. A light, round puff-paste 
crust, filled with delicately flavored 
ragofits of chicken, sweetbread, etc. 


ROYAL BAKING POWDER IS ABSOLUTELY PURE 


OnVA I BAKING 

KUlAL POWDER 

Absolutely Pure 

THE ONLY BAKING POWDER 
Made From Royal Grape Cream of Tartar 

The tests made by the Government chemists show that Royal 
Baking Powder is of the highest efficiency and usefulness as a leaven¬ 
ing agent; that it does not contain alum, ammonia, or lime, and is 
absolutely pure. The official tests by the various State Food 
Commissions, Boards of Health, and official analysts show no other 
baking powder so pure, strong, and healthful. 

More ill health and physical discomfort result from unwholesome 
food than from any other one cause, and chief among unwholesome 
foods are the alum and other cheaply made baking powders. 

There are numerous brands of these low-grade powders, mostly 
made from burnt alum and lime phosphates. They can be distin¬ 
guished generally by their low price. The sale of alum powders is 
urged by some dealers because they are bought cheap (they cost 
less than 3 cts. a pound to make) and yield a huge profit. 

Consumers should ask for Royal and take no substitute. 

There is no other baking powder or preparation that will render 
the food so wholesome, so excellent in every quality. 

The old-fashioned way of buying at the shops cream of tartar 
and soda separately and mixing them in the flour, or of using soda 
and sour milk, has been discarded by most housekeepers, because 
it is impossible to buy these articles in a pure state or to mix them 
accurately. The many official investigations of food articles have 
found the cream of tartar in the shops adulterated with clay or alum. 
The Royal Baking Powder Company prepare the ingredients used 
in their own mammoth refineries, rendering them chemically pure. 
Royal Baking Powder is thus more convenient, economical and 
healthful. 

Royal Baking Powder is sold only in securely labeled tin cans. 

REMEMBER, in all old receipts where cream of tartar and 
soda or saleratus are called for, you can use Royal Baking Powder 
and get better results. 

The usual proportions, old way, are;: 2 teaspoonfuls cream of 
tartar to 1 of soda or saleratus; 

Instead of which use 2 teaspoonfuls of Royal Baking Powder, 
and mix it with the flour while dry. This powder is so pure and 
perfectly combined that one-third less will do better work. 

Never use so-called prepared or self-raising flours. They mostly 
contain alum, lime phosphates, or some injurious ingredient. 


THE OFFICIAL TESTS 

Show Royal Baking Powder Superior to All Others 


The United States Government, after elaborate tests, shows Royal Baking Powder 
a pure cream of tartar powder of greater leavening strength than any other. 

Bulletin 13, U. S. Ag. Dep., p. 599. 

The Canadian official tests, recently made, show Royal Baking Powder highest of all 
in leavening strength. Bulletin 10, Inland Rev. Dep., p. 16. 

Royal Baking Powder is superior to any other powder which I have examined; a 
baking powder unequaled for purity, strength, and wholesomeness, 

Willis G. Tucker, M.D., Ph.D., New York State Analyst. 

As the excellence of a baking powder is dependent upon the yield of leavening gas, and 
upon the wholesomeness and purity of its ingredients, the Royal is unquestionably the 
best. Massachusetts State Analyst. 

The best baking powder made is, as shown by analysis, the Royal. 

Cyrus Edson, M.D., Late Com’r of Health, New York City. 

I find Royal Baking Powder superior to all the others in every respect. It is purest 
and strongest. Walter S. Haines, M.D., Consulting Chemist, 

Chicago Board of Health. 

Our test shows that Royal Baking Powder has greater leavening power than any other 
of which we have knowledge. W. B. Rising, State Chemist, California. 

I have from time to time analyzed Royal Baking Powder, and have uniformly found 
it to be high in leavening power and to be composed of pure ingredients. 

H. A. Weber, State Analyst, Ohio. 

My tests show Royal Baking Powder of very superior leavening power; a cream of 
tartar powder of the highest purity, containing no alum, lime, ammonia, or any un¬ 
wholesome material. R. C. Kedzie, late State Analyst, Michigan. 

Royal Baking Powder is composed of the best and purest ingredients. It is absolutely 
pure, with perfect keeping qualities, and as strong as such a powder can be made. Royal 
makes the food much finer, besides assuring its perfect healthfulness. 

G. H. Failyer, Kansas State Chemist. 

I have submitted Royal Baking Powder to careful chemical tests, and find it to be 
.perfectly free from any substance in any way deleterious or injurious. 

H. A. Huston, Indiana State Chemist. 

Royal Baking Powder is free from alum and every adulteration, and it has a larger 
amount of leavening gas than any of the others analyzed. M. A. Scovell, 

Director Kentucky Agl. Exp. Station. 

I have made a large number of analyses of Royal Baking Powder, and have found it to 
be an absolutely pure cream of tartar powder, entirely free from alum, ammonia, and all 
adulterations and impurities. In leavening power it is of the very highest. 

Charles W. Drew, late State Chemist, Minnesota. 

In this market I find but one powder besides Royal made from cream of tartar. Royal 
is the strongest, purest, most economical. 

H. H. Nicholson, Nebraska State Chemist. 

I find Royal to be absolutely pure and highest in leavening power. 

Albert Menke, Arkansas State Chemist. 

From actual analysis made by me, I pronounce Royal Baking Powder to be the 
strongest and purest Baking Powder before the public. W. T. Wenzell, 

Analyst San Francisco Board of Health. 

Royal Baking Powder is superior in regard to purity, leavening power, and keeping 
qualities. Geo. S. Cox, State Chemist, Wisconsin. 

I allow no baking powder other than Royal to be used in my kitchen, for I know it to 
be absolutely pure and all that is claimed for it. 

Wm. T. Cutter, Connecticut State Chemist. 

Royal was found the highest in leavening strength, and the best powder analyzed. 

George F. Payne, State Chemist, Georgia. 

There is no baking powder known to us equal to Royal. We confidently recommend 
it for purity and wholesomeness. W. Q. Webb, M.D., 

President Board of Health, Spokane, Washington. 

Royal Baking Powder has been found by every examination — official or competitive 
— to be the greatest of ALL in leavening power, and of absolute purity and whole¬ 
someness. 




Commended by Highest Authorities 

Royal Baking Powder Perfect in Ingredients, 
Purity, Healthfulness, and Leavening 
Efficiency 


[Extracts from reports on the baking powder manufactured by the 
Royal Baking Powder Co., New York, U. S. A.] 

All chemical tests to which I have submitted it have proved the Royal Baking 
Powder perfectly healthful and free from every deleterious substance. 

It is purest in quality and highest in strength of any Baking Powder of which I 
have knowledge. 

BJl, PtA. 

Late Chemist-in-Chief U. S. Dep’t of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 


The strength of the Royal is shown to be 23 per cent, greater than any other. 
As a result of my investigations I find the Royal Baking Powder far superior to 
the others. It is pure, contains none but wholesome ingredients, is of greater 
strength, and should be used in every household in preference to any other. 

Public Analyst , Ontario, Dominion of Canada. 



The materials which enter into the composition of the Royal Baking Powder 
(manufactured by the Royal Baking Powder Co.. of New York) have been proved by 
long and universal experience to be the most efficient for oven purposes, and at the 
same time quite unobjectionable, from a medical point of view, . . .the ingredients 
used being, in fact, chemically pure. 

The Royal Baking Powder, when employed in the usual manner, yields a very 
large volume of carbonic (or leavening) gas, amounting to no less than 157 cubic 
inches for each ounce of powder. 

It is evident that the Royal Baking Powder is very carefully prepared and its 
various ingredients so adjusted as to give the maximum possible yield of leavening 
gas; moreover, it is of uniform composition, the various samples I have examined 
being identical in the proportion of their ingredients. 

Royal Baking Powder may be safely and economically used in the preparation 
of bread and other food without imparting to it anything which could prove dele¬ 
terious to the most delicate stomach. 


Feb. 28, 1890. 


AA 



Medical Officer of Health and Public Analyst for the City of London, Eng. 









UNIVERSuY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA 


3 0112 078505556 


The only Baking Powder 

made from 

Royal Grape Cream of Tartar 

COMPLIMENTS OF 

MAGOON GROCERY CO. 

LITTLETON, N. H. 
















































