:f 



FOR THE 

Domestic Science Department 

OF THE 

Altoona Hi^h School 




Copyright, 1913 

By 

^ITELLA WERTZ 






FOREWORD 



All measurements called for in the following recipes are 
level. Good results depend on accuracy in measuring. 

TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS. 

t.=teaspoonful Ib.=-pound 

tb.=-tab!espoonful f. g.=few grains 

c.=cupful sq.=square 

pt.=pint min.=minute 

qt.=quart hr.=hour 
()z.=^ounce 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

3 t. = 1 tb. 
16 tb. rdry) = 1 c 
12 tb. (liquid) = 1 c. 

2 c. =1 pt. 

2 pt. =1 qt. 

4 qt. = 1 gal. 

4 c. flour = 1 lb. 
2 c. sugar = 1 lb. 
2 c. butter = 1 lb. 
2 tb. butter = 1 oz. 

5 medium eggs = 1 c. 
8 large egg whites = 1 c. 



v^ .;.' r- 



€;C1.A35 7 20 



CEREALS. 

Cereals need thorough cooking. Several hours are required 
for the coarsely ground forms of wheat, corn, and oats, if they 
are to be digested; rice cooks in less time. Breakfast cereals 
can be prepared, in part, the night before they are to be used, 
and the process completed during the preparation of breakfast.- 



CREAM OF WHEAT. 

^ c. Cream of Wheat 4 c. boiling water 

1 t. salt 

Put the boiling water into the top part of the double boiler. 

Pour the cereal in slowly and stir constantly to avoid lumping. 

Cook until thick directly over the fire, place over hot water, cover, 

and cook at least 2 hours. 



CORN MEAL MUSH. 

1 c. corn meal 4^/^ c. boiling water 

lA t. salt 
Cook like Cream of Wheat, allowing 4 hours for the process. 
If cooking mush to fry, use only 4 c. of water to 1 c. of corn 
meal. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Pack boiled mush into greased molds, cover, and cool. Turn 
out, clit into slices, and fry brown in very hot lard or fryings. 
Serve with a syrup made by boiling 2 c. of sugar with 1 c. of 
water. 

HOMINY, 

Cook like Corn IVfeal Mush, using the same proportions. 



OAT MEAL MUSH. 

Cook like Corn Meal Mush using the same proportions. 



CEREALS. 



ROLLED OR CRUSHED OATS. 



1 c. rolled oats 2 c. boiling water 

Yi t. salt 
Cook like Cream of Wheat. Since this form of cereal is 
partially cooked, only 1 Yz hours is required to complete the 
]jrocess. 



BOILED RICE. 

1 c. rice 6 c. boiling water 

Y2 t. salt 

Wash the rice thoroughly. Put the salt into the boiling water, 

add the rice, and cook rapidly for a few minutes. Reduce the 

temperature and cook until tender; about 45 minutes is recjuired. 

Do not stir. 



CEREALS. 



EGGS. 

SOFT COOKED EGGS. 

Put the eggs into a pan of boiling water, having enough to 
cover them to twice their depth. Cover the pan and remove 
from tlie fire. The eggs will be soft cooked in 6 min. 

HARD COOKED EGGS. 

Cook as for Soft Cooked Eggs, allowing the eggs to remain 
in the water just below t^he boiling point for 30 min. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

4 eggs Yi t. salt 

3/3 c. milk f. g. pepper 

1 tb. butter 
Beat the eggs slightly and add the milk, salt, and pepper. 
Melt die butter in a frying pan and pour in the &gg mixture. 
Cook over a slow fire until creamy, stirring from the bottom of 
the pan as the eggs thicken. Serve with hot buttered toast. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Put about 2 inches of boiling water into a shallow pan, add- 
ing 2 t. of salt for each quart of water. Reduce the heat to stop 
the boiling, break the eggs one at a time into a saucer, and slip 
carefully into the fiot water. Cover the pan. When the white is 
firm remove the eggs carefully with a skimmer. ]ilace on pieces 
of hot buttered toast, and serve immediately. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

3 hard-cooked eggs 1 c, milk 

1 t1). butter 3% t. salt 

1 tb. flour f. g. pepper 

Chop the eggs and mix witli White Sauce (pg. 31) made from 
the remaining ingredients. vServe hot on slices of hot buttered 
toast. The yolks of the eggs may be chopped or put through a 
ricer separately and sprinkled over the creamed mixture after it 
is put on the toast. 



EGGS. . 7 

FRIED EGGS. 

Heat the fat from bacon or ham in a frying pan. Creak the 
eggs into a shallow dish, being careful not to break the yolks, and 
slip them carefully into the frying pan. adding to them i tb. of 
iiot water. Gwer closeh'. When the whites become firm the 
eggs are ready to serve. 



DEVILED EGGS. 

6 hard-cooked eggs ^ c. vinegar 

1 t. mixed mustard f. g. pepper 
Yz t. salt 
Cut the eggs iii half lengthwise. Remove the yolks, mash, 
mix with mustard, salt, vinegar, and pepper, and beat until light. 
Heap each half white neatly w^ith the mixture. If the eggs are to 
be packed for a picnic lunch, fill the half xdiites level fidl only, 
and fold together in pairs. 



EGGS PICKLED WITH RED BEETS. 

6 hard-cooked eggs XV^ t. salt 

6 red beets ]\ t. pepper 

\'inegar 
Cook and skin the beets and put them into an earthen or glass 
jar along with the eggs. Add the salt and pepper and pour over 
enough vinegar to cover. Let stand 12 hrs. before using. 



PLAIN OMELET. 

4 eggs 14 t. salt 

2 tb. water f. g. pepper 

1 tb. butter 
Beat the eggs slightly and add the water, salt, and i)epper. 
Melt the butter in a frying pan over a low fire and put in the egg 
mixture. As it thickens lift the edges to allow the uncooked part 
to run under. When the top becomes creamy and the bottom is 
brown the omelet is done. Serve at once on a hot platter. 



EGGS. 



FOAMY OMELET. 



4 eggs 2 t. salt 

4 tb. water f. g. pepper 

1 tb. butter 
Separate tbe yolks of the eggs from the whites. Beat the 
yolks until thick and add the salt, pepper, and water. Beat the 
vv'hites very stifif and fold the first mixture into them. Melt tlie 
!)Utter in a hot pan, reduce the temperature and put in the omelet, 
spreading it evenly over the pan. When it is light, and well 
browned on the bottom set into the oven to become dry and hrm 
on to]x Fold and serve at once on a hot platter. 



BAKED OMELET. 

1 c. scalded milk >^ t. salt 

1 tb. fiour f. g. pepper 

1 tb. butter 3 eggs 

Make White Sauce (pg. 31) of the first 5 ingredients. Add 
the beaten yolks and fold the mixture carefully into the stiffly 
beaten whites. Turn into a greased pan and bake 10 to 15 min. 
in a cool oven. 



EGG TOAST, 

3 eggs 1 tb. sugar 

3^ t. salt 1 c. milk 

6 slices stale bread 
Beat the eggs and mix with them the salt, sugar, and milk. 
Soak the bread in the mixture and brown on both sides on a hot, 
well oiled griddle. 



EGGS. 



10 

MILK AND CHEESE. 

VANILLA JUNKET. 

1 junket tablet ;4 ^^ sugar 

1 tb. cold water 1 qt. milk 

1 t. vanilla 
Dissolve the junket tablet in the cold water. Heat the milk 
over hot water until luke warm. Dissolve the sugar in the milk, 
add the vanilla and the dissolved junket, and turn the mixture out 
into molds. Allow the molds to stand in a warm place until the 
mixture begins to thicken. Sprinkle with cinnamon, jf desired, 
and without jarring transfer to a cool place to chill. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 

Condensed, sterilized, or scalded milk is not affected by 
junket. 



CREAM TOAST. 

Dry and brown the toast thoroughly, spread lightly with 
butter, and season with a very little salt and pepper. Add 
enough boiling water to moisten the toast, dress with cream and 
serve. 



COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Put fresh buttermilk into a large earthen-ware or porcelain 
bowl, having the bowl not more than half full. Have ready an 
equal qtiantity of boiling water. While stirring the buttermilk, 
pour the hot water slowly into it until the whey separates, tising 
only enough water to bring about this result. Allow the mix- 
ture to stand until the curd settles. Pour off as much of the 
whey and water as possible without losing any of the curd, pour 
the remaining material into a draining bag and drain until dry. 
Mix the dry curd with cream, salt, and pej^per, as desired. 

Cottage cheese may be made in the same manner from thick, 
freshly soured milk, but the curd is coarser and tougher than 
the curd from buttermilk. 



MILK AND CHEESE. 11 



SWEET MILK CHEESE. 



Thicken the milk as for Vanilla Junket, 1 tal)let to a quart 
of milk, and proceed as for Cottage Cheese. 



CHEESE BALLS. 

Use a mild cheese. Grate, or if soft enough, rub through, a 
coarse sieve. Season with caj^enne, take up by tablespoonfuls 
and make into balls. Roll each ball in finely chopped parsley of 
nuts. vServe with salad. 

DUTCH CHEESE BALLS. 

Mix 1 c. of dry curd from buttermilk or sour milk with 
enough cream or milk to keep it together. Season with 3 tb. 
of grated onion, and salt and pepper to taste. Make into small 
balls and roll each ball in finely chopped parsley. Serve with 
lettuce salad. 

CHEESE FONDUE. 

1 c. scalded milk ^ t. salt 

1 c. soft stale crumbs f. g. pepper 

1 tb. butter 3 eggs 

34 lb. finely chopped cheese 
Separate the yolks of the eggs from the whites. Beat the 
yolks and mix with them all the ingredients except the whites. 
Beat the whites very stiff and fold carefully into the mixture. 
Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake 20 minutes in a mod- 
crate oven. Serve at once. 

CHEESE AND MACARONI. 

iy2 c. milk y, t. salt 

1 y tb. butter f . g. pepper 

ly tb. flour 3 c. Hoiled Macaroni (pg. 31) 

y c. grated cheese 
Make A\'hite Sauce (pg. 31), from the milk, flour, butter, sail, 
and pepper. Put alternate layers of macaroni and cheese into 
a buttered baking dish and pour over them the sauce. Buttered 
crumbs may be spread over the top if desired. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven for 20 minutes, oi" until the crumbs are brown. 



12 MILK AND CHEESE. 



CHEESE AND RICE. 



Put alternate layers of Boiled Rice (\)g. 4) and grated 

cheese into a buttered baking dish, add milk to half cover, 

sprinkle with buttered crumbs and a few grains of pepper, and 
brown in the oven. 



WELSH RAREBIT. 

1 c. milk M? t. salt 

1 tb. l)Utter f. g. cayenne 

1 tb. flour '4 t mustard 

}2 lb. soft mild cheese 
Cut the cheese into small dice. Make White Sauce (pg. 31) 
from the remaining ingredients and stir into it the cheese. When 
the cheese is melted serve on crackers or soft toast. 



TOMATO RAREBiT. 

Make like Welsh Rarebit, omitting the mustard, and substi- 
tuting llj c. of tomato pulp and juice for the milk. 



CHEESE WAFERS. 

Sprinkle cris]) crackers with a thin layer of grated cheese 
seasoned with a f. g. of cayenne. Bake in the oven until the 
cheese melts. 



CHEESE BISCUITS. 

Make a dough as for Baking Powder Biscuit ( pg. 51). Roll 
out to ^ incli in thickness and cut into small rounds ; brush 
lightly with milk and sprinkle with a thin layer of grated cheese. 
Lay the rounds together in threes, one on top of the other and 
bake in a hot o\en 12 to 15 minutes. vServe with salad. 



MILK AND CHEESE. 



13 



14 

SOUPS. 

SOUP STOCK. 

2 lbs. meat and bone 2 t: salt 

3 qts. cold water f. g. pepper 

Have tbe bone sawed into small pieces. Wipe the meat, trim 
off the fat, and cut into inch cubes. Put the fat into the bottom 
of the soup kettle. When hot put in half the meat cubes and 
brown them with the fat. Put in the remaining meat and the 
bone and cover with the cold water. vSoak for jA hour, then 
cook just below the boiling point for 4 hours. Skim oft" the fat, 
strain out the meat and bone, and add the salt and pepper. 

Any desired vegetable or combination of vegetables may be 
cooked in the stock. 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Cut up and add to smi]) stock any desired combination of 
vegetables. The vegetal)les should be put into the broth in the 
order of the time required to cook them ; or they may be cooked 
separately and added jA hr. before serving. 

( )utside stalks of celery or bits of left over vegetable of any 
kind can be used to advantage. If no potatoes are used,. a small 
quantity of rice cooked with the soup gives body to the broth; 
Careful seasoning with salt and pepper is required. 



BEAN SOUP. 

I small ham bone 2 c. beans 

3 quarts cold water 
Pick over and wash the beans, and soak for 3 or 4 hours. 
Drain, put over a slow hre in cold water, and simmer until soft; 
3 or 4 hours are rcfjuired. Wash the ham-bone carefully, put it 
into the soup kettle and add the cold water. Cover and cook just 
below the boiling point for 3 hours. Add the beans to the meat 
stock 15 minutes before serving. 



ISO UPS. 15 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 

Make like Bean Soup, substituting split peas for the beans. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

1 qt, meat stock 1 onion 

1 qt. stewed tomatoes Salt and pepper 

Grate the onion and add, with the tomatoes and the season- 
ing, to the stock. Boil 15 minutes, strain and serve; or serve 
without straining. 

CELERY SOUP. 

1 qt. meat stock 1 egg yolk 

1 bunch celery }4 c. cream 

3/2 onion Salt and pepper 

Chop the onion. Wash the celery and cut into inch pieces, 
using the bleach'ed leaves as well as the stems. Add the celery 
and onion to the stock and cook until tender. Strain through a 
colander, rubbing through as much of the pulp as possible. Re- 
heat the broth. Beat the egg yolk, add the cream and stir the 
mixture into the hot stock. Season and serve with croutons. 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

1 qt. tomatoes 1 qt. milk 

1 onion 4 tb. flour 

2 t. salt 4 tb. butter 
% t. soda ys t. pepper 

Cook the tomatoes with the onion and the salt for 5 minutes ; 
add the soda and when the mixture ceases to froth strain and add 
to the White Sauce (pg. 31) made from the remaining ingred- 
ients. Serve at once. 



16 SOUPS. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

1 bunch celery 2 tb. floiir 
"1 slice onion 2 tb. butter 
3 c. l)oiling water 1 t. salt 

2 c. milk f. g. pepper 

Wash the celery and cut into small i)ieces, using the white 
leaves as well as the stems. Cook with the onit»n in the boiling 
water until tender. Strain through a colander, rubbing through 
as much of the pulp as possible. Add the juice and the pulp to 
the White Sauce (pg. 31) made fromthe remaining ingredients. 
Heat thoroughly and serve. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP. 

1 can corn 2 tb. butter 

2 c. boiling water 2 tl). flour 

2 c. milk 1 t. salt 

f. g. pepper 
Chop the corn and cook with the water for 10 minutes. Rub 
through a colander and proceed as for Cream of Celery Soup. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

Made like Cream of Corn Soup, using the same proportions. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP. 

3 potatoes 1 tb. ilour 

2 tb. grated onion 1 t. salt 

1 qt. scalded milk f. g. pepper 

3 tb. butter 1 t. chopped parsley 
Cook the potato with the onion in l)oiling salted water until 

soft, using as little water as possible ; mash and add to the scald- 
ed milk. Cream the Initter with the flour, salt and pepper, and 
stir the mixture into the boiling soup. Cook 2 min., sprinkle 
with parsley, and serve. 

CROUTONS. 

Cut stale bread into ^ in. slices and remove the crusts. Cut 
slices into ^ in. cubes and brown in the oven, turning to brown 
all sides. Serve with soup. 



SOUPS 



17 



1-8 

VEGETABLES. • 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Choose potatoes of uniform size, wash, and remove the 
dark spots. If cooking the potatoes to brown or to make into 
salad it is best to cook them in their skins. In paring potatoes 
take as thin i)arings as possible. Rinse the potatoes in cold 
water, transfer to boiling salted water, and cook until tender ; 
about 30 min. is required. Drain at once. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

6 medium sized potatoes 1 t. salt 
2 tb. butter f . g. pepper 

Hot milk 
Cook as for Boiled Potatoes. Mash, or put through a ricer. 
Season with salt, pepper, and butter, and beat in with a fork 
enough hot milk to make the potatoes creamy and light. Serve 
at once or place over boiling water to keep hot. 

BROWNED MASHED POTATOES. 

Butter a hot shallow baking dish and heap it lightly wdth hot 
Mashed Potatoes. Leave the surface of the potatoes rougli, 
put into a hot oven and brown the rough edges. Serve in the 
baking dish. vStiffly beaten white of egg may be folded into the 
potatoes if desired. Use 1 egg white for 8 medium sized pota- 
toes. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Choose smooth potatoes, imiform in size. Wash carefully 
and bake on the rack in a hot o\cn until soft ; 40 min. to 1 hr. is 
required. Prick each potato with a fork, remove from the oven, 
and serve at once. 

STUFFED BAKED POTATOES. 

Cut hot Baked Potatoes in halves lengthwise. Remove the 
insides, mash and season as for Mashed Potatoes, folding in the 
stiffly beaten white of 1 egg for each 6 potatoes, if desired. Put 
back into the half-shells lightly, leaving the surface rough. Re- 
turn to a hot oven and brown the rough edges. 



VEGETABLES. 19 



ROASTED BROWN POTATOES. 

Wash and pare potatoes of uniform size. Cook in boiling 
salted water for 15 min., drain and put into the pan with roast- 
ing meat. Baste the potatoes with the broth from the meat and 
turn once to brown both sides. 30 to 45 min. is required for 
roasting the potatoes. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Wash small new potatoes, scrape off the skin, and cook as 
for Boiled Potatoes (pg. 18). Drain and put into a warm serv- 
ing dish. Pour over them melted butter or hot White Sauce 
(pg. 31), sprinkle with pepper or finely chopped parsley, and 
serve. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Wash small potatoes and cook, without paring, in boiling 
salted water, until tender. Drain and peel. Put several tbs. of 
lard in a hot frying pan ; when hot add Y^ as much butter, and 
enough potatoes to cover the bottom of the pan. Cook over a 
moderate fire until brown, turning to brown all sides. 



SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Wash, pare and slice the potatoes and put into a hot baking 
dish in layers, seasoning each layer with salt, pepper, and bits 
of butter. Dredge the top layer lightly with flour and add hot 
milk until it can be seen on top. Cover and bake in a moderate 
oven until soft; remove the cover and brown. 1 hr. or more is 
required. 

PAN COOKED POTATOES. 

6 medium sized potatoes 1 tb. butter 
4 tb. lard or fryings 1 t. salt 

f. g. pepper 
Wash, pare, and slice the potatoes. Heat the lard in a skil- 
let, add the butter and the potatoes. Season with the salt and 
pepper, cover closely, and cook until tender over a moderate 
flame. Turn the potatoes several times to prevent burning. 



20 VEGETABLES. 



CREAMED POTATOES. 

5 iiK'diuiii sized potatoes 2 c. White Sauce ( pg. 31) 
1 t. salt 1 tl). clio])i)e(l parsley 

Wash and jxare the ])otatoes and cut into dice. Cook in boil- 
ing water to which tlie salt lias 1)een added, using as little water 
as possible in order to have the potatoes dry when soft. Wdien 
soft combine with the sauce, put into a warm dish, sprinkle with 
the parsley, and serve. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Wash and \y.ivc the i)otatoes and cut into verv thin slices. 
J^oak initil crisp in cold water, drv on a clean clotli, and fry 
brown in deep, hot fat. Drain on unglazed paper, sprinkle 
lightly with salt, and serve. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

W^asli and pare small potatoes, and cut into eightiis length- 
wise. Soak until crisp in cold water and drv on a clean cloth. 
Fry until l)rown and tender in deep, hot fat; drain on unglazed 
paper ; sprinkle lightly with salt, and serxe. 

POTATO PANCAKES. 

3 c. grated raw potato ^ c. flour 

3 eggs 1 t. salt 

Lard 
Mix the flour and the salt with the ])otato, and add the 
beaten eggs. TTeat enough lard in a frying pan to cover the bot- 
tom. Put in the mixture in small spoonfuls, spreading them 
slightly with the spoon and cooking as many at a time as the pan 
will hold. Keep the fat hot, adding more as needed. Brown the 
cakes thoroughly, turning to l)rown both sides. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

6 cold boiled potatoes J/ tl). butter 

2 tb. lard Salt and pepper 

Cut the potatoes into small dice. Meat the lard in a frying 

])an, add the Initter and jnit in the potatoes and the seasoning. 

Put over a moderate fire and cook until l)rown, turning to brown 

them all through. 



VEGETABLES. 21 



HASHED BROWN POTATOES. 

3 cold boiled potatoes 1 tb. butter 

^ onion 2 tb. flour 

3 tl). lard or fryir;gs Vj c. cream or milk 

Salt and pepper 
Cut the potatoes into very small dice. Heat the lard in a 
frying pan, put in the sliced onion and cook until light Ijrown. 
Add the butter and when melted put in the potatoes. 1 *ress them 
down lightly, sift o\er them the seasoning and flour, and pour 
over them the cream. Tlace over a hot fire for a few minutes, 
turn the flame very low and cook for 15 or 20 min. Fold and 
turn out on a hot serving plate. 



POTATO CAKES, I. 

Shape cold Mashed Potatoes into small cakes ; roll in flour 
and jjrown in hot lard or fryings, to which a little butter has 
been added. 



POTATO CAKES, II. 

2 c. cold Mashed Potatoes y^ t. salt 

1 egg f. g. pepper 

Fat 
Beat the egg and mix with it the potato and seasoning. 
Make into cakes and proceed as for Potato Cakes I. 



BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Proceed as for Baked I'otatoes (pg. 18). 

STUFFED BAKED SWEET POTATOES. 

Proceed as for Stuffed Baked Potatoes ( pg. IS). 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash the potatoes and cook tender in boiling salted water. 
Drain, peel, cut in halves lengthwise, and brown in ])utter on a 
hot frying pan. 



22 VEGETABLES. 



GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 

6 medium sized potatoes 2 tb. butter 
y2 c. brown sugar Yj, c. boiling water 

Wasb and pare tbe potatoes and cook 10 min. in boiling 
salted water. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and put into a 
buttered baking dish. Dissolve the sugar in the water, bring to 
the boiling point, and stir in the butter. Brush the potatoes with 
this mixture, put them in the oven and bake until tender, basting 
at intervals with the remaining syru}). 



PAN-GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 

6 small potatoes ^ c. sugar 

2 tb. lard y^. c. water 

2 tb. butter f. g. salt 

Wash and pare the potatoes and cut into halves lengthwise. 
Heat the lard in a frying pan, melt with it the butter and put in 
the potatoes. Sprinkle them with the salt and the sugar, add the 
Vvater and cover the pan closely. Cook until the potatoes are 
tender, remove the lid and turn the potatoes to brown both sides. 
About 25 min. is required for the process. 



BROILED TOMATOES. 



Wash half-ripe tomatoes and cut in thick slices. Season 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour, and Im^owu in a little hot fat 
in a frying pan. Serve at once. 



BAKED TOMATOES. 



Wash the tomatoes and place stem end down in a buttered 
baking dish, making criss-cross cuts through the skin on the top 
of each tomato. Rake in a moderate oven. Season each tomato 
with salt. ]X'pper, and a bit of butter, just before serving. 



VEGETABLES. 23 



STUFFED TOMATOES. 



6 firm tomatoes Yz c. cooked, chopped meat or 

1 c. soft stale crumbs ^ c. boiled rice 

1 tb.melted butter 1 t. salt 

2 tb. grated onion j/^ t. pepper 

Yi c. dry buttered crumbs 
Wash the tomatoes and cut a thin slice from the top. Scoop 
out the pulp and seeds and mix with them all the remaining in- 
gredients except the dry buttered crumbs. Heat the mixture and 
fill the tomatoes with it. Cover the tomatoes with the dry but- 
tered crumbs, put into a baking dish, and bake in a hot oven until 
well browned on the top. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

1 qt. stewed tomatoes 1 tb. grated onion 

1 t. salt 2 c. soft stale crumbs 

f . g pepper 2 tb. butter 

Melt the butter and add the crumbs. Mix half the buttered 
crumbs with the other ingredients, pour into a hot buttered bak- 
ing dish and cover with the remaining crumbs. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven until brown ; about 40 nun. is required. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

1 c. tomato juice 2 tb. flour 

2 tb. butter >4 t. salt 

f. g. pepper 
Mix the salt and pepper with the flour. Melt the butter, add 
the dry ingredients, and stir until smooth. Add the tomato juice 
and stir until the mixture boils. Cook 3 min. 1 t. grated onion 
may be added with the tomato juice if desired. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

Sterilize the jars and lids by covering with cold water, 
bringing to the boiling point, and boiling at least 10 min. 

Wash the -tomatoes, cover wath boiling water, let stand 5 
min., drain and peel. Cut into quarters, place over the fire, and 
boil 5 min. 

1'ake the jars one at a time from the boiling water, dip a 
new rubber into boiling water and fit it on the jar ; fill to over- 
flowing with the tomatoes, being careful to eject all air Inibbles 
Cover and seal. 



24 VEGETABLES. 



CORN ON THE COB. 

Husk the corn as soon as received and keep cokl until ready 
to use. When about to cook carefuhy removed all silky threads, 
])Ut into boiling" salted water to cover, and ])oil (S niin. 

STEWED CORN. 

Cut off the corn, being careful to scrape all the pulp from 
the cob. Add a small cj[uantity of water and cook 10 min., or 
cook without water in a double Ijoiler for 30 min. vSeason with 
.salt, pepper, butter, and milk if desired. Bring to the boiling 
point and serve. Canned corn may be prepared in the same way. 

SCALLOPED CORN. 

1 can corn 2 tb. butter 

yjC. soft stale crumbs 1 t. salt 

1 c. milk f. g. pepper 

2 tb. flour ^2 c. buttered dry crumbs 
Mix the corn with the soft crumbs. Make White Sauce 

(pg. 31) of the flour, butter, milk and seas(Miing. Combine the 
two mixtures, put into a buttered baking dish and cover with the 
buttered crumbs. Bake in ia moderate over until the crumbs are 
brown. About 20 min. is required. 

CORN PUDDING. 

1 can corn 1 t. salt 

2 c. crumbs f. g. pepper 

1 c. milk 3 eggs 

Beat the volks of the eggs and mix with iheiu the milk, 
crumbs, corn, and seasoning. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites, 
turn into a buttered baking dish, and bake 30 min. in a moderate 
oven. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

2 c. chopped corn y^ t. salt 

2 eggs f. g. pepper 

y. c. flour 
Beat the eggs, add the corn and seasoning, and stir in the 
flour. Cook l)y spoonfuls on a hot oiled griddle. 



VEQETABLES. 25 



BOILED CABBAGE. 



Take off the outside leaves from the cahhage, cut it into 
quarters, remove the tough stalk, and soak in cold water until 
crisp. Cook without a cover in hoiling salted water until ten- 
der. Drain, put into a warm serving dish, season wth salt, pep- 
per, melted hutter and a few drops of vinegar, if desired. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE. 

Make like Scalloj^ed Corn (pg. 24), suhstituting chopped 
hoiled cahbage for the corn and omitting the soft stale crumbs. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

1 small cabbage 2 tb. flour 

2 t. salt 1 c. slightly soured cream 
2 tb. butter 1 tb. vinegar 

Remove the outer leaves from the cabbage. Shred with a 
knife or a slaw cutter and soak in cold water until crisj). Heat 
the butter in a deep frying pan, put in the drained cabbage, 
sprinkle with salt, cover closely and cook over a moderate Are 
until tender. About 25 min. is required. Beat the cream until 
frothy and add the vinegar. Dredge the cabbage with the flour, 
pour over it the cream mixture, Ijring to the boiling point and 
cook 5 min. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Remove the leaves and stem from the cauliflower. Cut the 
flowerets apart and soak them in cold water. Drain, and cook 
until tender in boiling salted water. About 25 min. is required. 
Drain, put into a warm serving dish, season with salt, pepper, 
and melted butter, or dress with hot White .Sauce ( pg. 31 ). 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Peel the onions under water, drain, and scald with l)oiling 
water. Drain again and cook uncovered in l)oiling salted water 
until tender. About 1 hr. is required. Drain and season with 
salt, pepper, and melted butter ; or dress with milk thickened with 
flour that has been creamed with an equal proportion of butter. 
Season with salt and pepper, cook 3 min. and serve. 



26 VEGETABLES. 



SCALLOPED ONIONS. 



Make like Scalloped Corn (pg. 24), substituting 2 c. of chop- 
ped boiled onions for the corn and omitting the soft stale crumbs. 



STUFFED ONIONS. 

6 Boiled Onions ^^ t. salt 

^ c. soft stale crumbs f. g. pep])er 

y. c. cooked chopped meat ! c White vSauce (pg. 31) 

1 tb. melted butter Yi c. buttered dry cnmibs 

Be careful not to overcook the onions, they must not be 

broken. Remove the inner sections, chop fine, and mix with the 

soft crumbs, meat, melted butter, salt, and ])epper. Refill the 

onions with the mixture, place close together in the bottom of a 

small buttered baking dish, pour over them the sauce, sprinkle 

with the buttered crumbs and bake .30 min. in a moderat oven. 



FRIED ONIONS. 

Peel the onions and slice under cold water. Drain and dry 
on a clean cloth. Cook tender and brown in a frying pan in hot 
lard to which ^/:s <is much butter has been added. Turn with a 
fork, being careful not to burn. Season with salt just l)cfore 
lifting. 



ASPARAGUS. 

Open the bundles and wash the asparagus carefully to get 
rid of any sand in the tips. Trim ott any tough ends, tie in 
small bundles again, and drop into boiling water. Cook until 
tender, keeping the tips out of the water for the first 5 min. 
Drain, lay in a warm serving dish with the ti])s one way and re- 
move the strings. vSeason with salt, pepper, and melted butler, 
or pour White Sauce (pg. 31) over the tij) ends. 



VEGETABLES. 27 



SPINACH. 

Yy pk. spinach 1 t. salt 

4 tb. flour f. g. pepper 

4 tb. bacon fat or butter 2 c. cold water 

Pick over the spinach, separating all the leaves and remov- 
ing the roots. Soak until crisp in plenty of cold water and lift, 
a leaf at a time, into fresh water. Repeat the process several 
times to free the spinach of sand. Lift from the last water, 
shake well and put into a granite kettle. Cover closely, and cook 
until tender over a slow fire. Very old spinach should be cooked 
in boiling water and drained when tender. Melt the fat in a 
frying pan, add the flour,' salt, and pepper, and stir until smooth 
and well browned. Put in the cold water and stir until the 
mixture boils. Cook 3 min., mix with the spinach, and serve. 
A tb. of vinegar may be added if desired. 

RED BEET TOPS. 

Follow directions in the recipe for Spinach. 

NEW PEAS. 

Remove the peas from the pods as soon as received and keep 
cold until ready to cook. Wash in cold water, discarding the 
immature peas. Drain, and cook closely covered in as little water 
as possible, over a slow fire, until tender. Season with salt, 
pepper, and melted butter, and serve. 

NEW PEAS AND POTATOES, 

1 c. finely diced new potatoes I c. White Sauce (pg. 31) 

1 c new peas M t. salt 

Cook the peas as directed in the preceding recipe. Cook 
the potatoes with the salt in a covered pan, using as little water 
as possible. When both vegetables are soft, combine with the 
sauce, heat thoroughly, and serve. 

CARROTS. 

Wash the carrots and scrape oft the thin outer skin Cut 
into thin slices or small dice and cook closely covered in as little 
v.ater as possible. Use ^/\ t. salt for each cup of carrots. When 
soft turn into a warm serving dish and season with pepper and 
melted butter or dress with White Sauce (pg. 31). 



28 VEGETABLES. 



CARROTS AND PEAS. 

1 c. peas 2 tb. butter 

1 c. tinely diced carrots Yz t. salt 

f. g. pej)per 
Cook the carrots and the peas separately, following direc- 
tions in the preceding recipes. When both are tender, combine, 
heat thoroughly, dress with salt, pe])pcr, and Ijutter, and serve. 
Canned peas may be substituted for the new peas. They 
need not be cooked, but should be drained and thoroughly heated 
])ef(,)re mixin<j \\-ith ihe carrots. 



STRING BEANS. 

Wash the ])eans, remove the ends of the pods, and pull off 
die strings. Break into inch pieces and cook in boiling water 
until tender ; from 1 to 2 hours is required. Add Yi t. salt for 
each qt. of ])cans j _. hr. before serving. Drain, season with salt, 
pepper, and butter, or dress with White ,Sauce (])g. .il). 



SHELL BEANS. 

I\emove the beans from the pods, wash, and soak for 10 
miiuites in cold water. Cook covered over a slow hre in as little 
water as ])Ossi])le until tender; from 1 to 2 hours is required. 
Add }I> t. of salt for each pint of beans Y^ hour before lifting. 
When soft season with jjcpper and melted butter or dress with 
White Sauce ( pg. 31). 



NEW LIMA BEANS. 
Cook like Shell Beans. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Mixed Boiled Corn cut from the cob {\>g. 24) with an equal 
fiuantity of cooked Shell Beans or new Lima Beans. Heat over 
hot water and aild salt, pe])])er, and l)Utter, to season. 



VEGETABLES. 29 



DRIED BEANS. 

Wash the l)eans and soak in i:)lenty of cold water over niglit. 
Drain and cook covered in as little water as possible until ten- 
der. Add 34 t. salt for each cup of beans ]A hour l)efore the 
beans are done. Season with salt, pepper and butter, or dress 
with White Sauce (pg. 31). 



BAKED BEANS. 

4 c. dried l)eans 1 lb. fat l)acon 

Trim oft' the rind and cut the bacon into inch slices. Wash 
the beans and soak over night in ])lent5' of cold water. Drain, 
cover with fresh cold water, place over the fire and boil 5 min. 
Drain again, put into a shallow baking dish, lay the bacon on 
the toj), cover with cold water, and bake in a moderate oven 
until the beans are soft ; 4 or 5 hours are required. Stir the 
beans every half hour and add water if they become too dry. 



BAKED BEANS WITH TOMATOES. 

Prepare as directed in the j^receding recipe, adding 1 qt. to- 
matoes, 1 t. salt and 2 tb. sugar before putting in the bacon. 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

1 qt. dried beans 2 tb. molasses 

^4 11). fat salt pork 2 tb. sugar 

1 tb. salt 
. Scald and scrape the pork rind and make deep gashes in it 
1 in. apart. Wash the beans and soak over night. Drain, cov- 
er with cold water, and cook until the skin begins to burst. Cut 
a slice from the pork and })lace in the bottom of a bean pot or a 
deep baking disii, put in the drained beans and the remaining 
pork, having the rind level with the top of the beans. Mix the 
sugar, molasses, and salt with a little hot water and when dis- 
solved pour o\er the beans. Fill to the top of the beans with 
boiling water, cover, and bake in a moderate oven 7 to 8 hours, 
removing the lid the last hour. 



30 VEGETABLES. 



TURNIPS. 

W'asli and pare the turnips and cut into small dice. Cook 
in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and season with but- 
ter, pepper, and salt, or serve with White Sauce (pg. 31). 

RED BEETS. 

Wash the beets and cut off the tops one inch from the beet. 
Cook in boiling salted water to cover, until tender. Young beets 
will cook in 1 hr., old beets require 3 to 4 hrs. Drain, rub off 
the skins, and cut into quarters. Reheat in the top of a double 
l)oiler and season with salt, pe])per, butter, and a little vinegar, 
if desired. 

PICKLED BEETS. 

Cook as in the preceding recipe, and j^ack while hot in an 
earthen or porcelain jar. vSeason with salt and pepper and cover 
with vinegar. Let stand 24 hours before serving. 

HORSE-RADISH. 

Wash the root and scra|)e olt the outer skin. Crate Ihie, 
season with salt and pepper, and cover with vinegar. Put in 
tightly closed glass jars and use as needed. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

6 green peppers 2 tl). grated onion 

lyi c. chopped cooked meat P{> t. salt 

lyj c. soft, stale crumbs 1 Vj c. meat dressing 

' 2 c. dry buttered crumbs 

Wash the i)eppcrs, cut in halves crosswise, remove the seeds 
raid stems and cook 10 min. in boiling salted water. Mix all the 
remaining ingredients Init the buttered crumbs. Drain the 
peppers, fill each half with the mixture, and cover with the but- 
tered crumbs. Stand in a shallow baking dish containing ) j c. 
boiling water, and bake in a hot oxen Ij hr. 

BROWNED PARSNIPS. 

Wash and i)arc the ])arsniiis and cook in boiling salt water 
until tender. Drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and brown in 
btitter in a hot frying pan. 



VEGETABLES. 31 



EGGPLANT. 

Wash, pare, and cut the eggplant in '4-in. slices. Sprinkle 
each slice with salt and stand aside for 1 hr. Drain off the 
extracted water, dip each slice in flour, and hrown in hot fryings 
or lard. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Prepare like Eggplant. 

HUBBARD SQUASH. 

Split the squash into pieces, remove the seeds and stringy 
inside part, and pare. Suspend in a strainer over hoiling water, 
cover, and cook until tender ; about 30 min. is required. Mash 
and season like Mashed Potatoes (pg. 18). The squash may 
be cooked in the steamer if desired; it is likely to be watery if 
boiled. 

BOILED MACARONL 

Wasii the macaroni and break into inch pieces. Cook in 
boiling w^ater until tender ; about 30 min. is required. Add salt 
when the macaroni lias been cooking 20 min. When soft drain, 
and rinse in cold water. Reheat in Tomato Sauce (pg. 23), or 
\Miite Sauce. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

1 c. milk 2 tb. butter 

2 tb. flour yi t. salt 

f. g. pepper 
When the milk is cold : — 

Melt the butter and remove from the fire. Adfl the dry 
ingredients and stir smooth. Add the milk, return to the fire, 
and cook 3 min.. stirring constantly. 
When the milk is hot : — 

I. Cream the butter with the dry ingredients. Blend the 
mixture with a little hot milk, stir into the remaining hot milk 
and boil 3 min., stirring constantly; or 

II. Mix enough cold milk with the dry ingredients to make 
a thin smooth batter. Add to the hot milk and boil 3 min., 
stirring constantly. Remove from the fire and stir in the butter. 



32 



VEGETABLES. 



33 



MEATS. 

BROILED STEAK OR CHOPS. 

Only tender meat can be prepared successfully by this 
method. Wipe and trim the steak or. chops, cutting through the 
tough tissue around the edges at intervals. Place on an oiled 
broiling rack and put into a very hot broiling oven. Sear the 
meat on both sides, turning often to prevent scorching. About 
10 min. is required for cooking a steak 1 in. thick. Season with 
salt and pepper, and serve. 



PAN-BROILED STEAK OR CHOPS. 

Wipe and trim the meat, being careful to cut through the 
tough tissue around the edges at intervals. Put the fat trim- 
mings into a hot frying ])an ; when the oil is extracted and has 
become very hot, put in the steak or chops and sear thoroughly 
on both sides. Cook a steak 1 in. thick about 15 min., turning 
frequently to prevent scorching. Season with salt and pepper 
iust before serving. 



HAMBURG STEAK. 

Trim the fat from a ])iece of beef. Chop or grind the meat 
fine, chopping with it a piece of onion if desired. Season with 
salt and pepper, })at out into a round 1 in. thick, and Ijroil like 
regular steak. 

The meat, after it is ground and seasoned, may be made into 
small cakes and broiled in that form if desired. 



STEAK DRESSING. 

If there is not enough fat in the pan for dressing when the 
steak is removed, add a little butter or fryings. Put in as much 
fiour as the pan contains fat, set over a hot fire and stir until 
smooth and well browned. Add 1 c. of cold water for each 2 tb. 
of flour; stir, and boil 2 min. Season with salt and pepper, and 
serve with the meat. 



34 MEATS. 

SMOTHERED STEAK. 

Meat from the round, or any steak too tough to broil, can be 
made tender l)y this method. Have the meat cut rather thick. 
Wipe and trim it, reserving the fat and cutting through the tough 
tissue on the edges. Lay on a well-floured board and dredge 
with flour. Pound well over the entire surface on both sides, 
using the edge of a porcelain plate. Keep the meat well floured 
during th'e pounding, and press it in from the edges occasionally 
to keep it from becoming thin. Season with salt and pepper 
Fry out the fat in a hot pan, using .a little lard if necessary. 
When the fat is very hot put in the steak. Brown well on both 
.sides, pour off the excess fat, add '4 c. of water and cover 
closely. Cook at least '-2 hr. over a very low flame or in a slow 
even. Add water if the pan becomes dry. 



ROAST BEEF. 

Meat from the ribs or the loin is best for roasting. Wipe 
and trim the meat and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place in a 
roasting pan and lay several thin slices of onion on top; dredge 
with floui, and i)Ut into a \ery hot oven. When the meat is 
thorouglily seared, reduce the heat and baste Avith ^4 ^"up of hot 
water. Cook about 20 min. for each lb. 'i'urn the meat to 
brown the bottom, and baste frequently with the juice in the pan 
or more hot water, if necessary. 



ROAST BEEF DRESSING. 



When the roast is removed, skim the excess fat from the 
liquid in the pan and place the pan over the Are. For each cup of 
liquid take 2 tb. of flour, mix to a smooth paste with water, and 
stir into the dressing, as soon as it boils. Boil 1 min., season with, 
salt and pepper, and serve with the roast. 



ME ATS. 35 

POT ROAST. 

Pieces from the round, the rump, or the chuck, make the best 
pot-roasts. Use an iron or a heavy granite kettle. Wipe and 
trim the meat, reserving the fat. Dredge with flour. Put the fat 
into the bottom of the kettle over a hot fire. When well drawn 
out and very hot put in the meat, with several slices of onion, if 
desired. Sear well on all sides. Add boiling water to almost 
cover the meat, boil rapidly for 5 min. ; cover, and reduce the 
iieat. Simmer until the meat is tender. Season with salt and 
pepper Yz hr. before serving. Thicken the dressing by mixing 
with it a smooth paste of flour and water. Boil 2 min. Season, 
and serve with the meat. 

BEEF LOAF. 

2 lb. beef 1 to 3 c. soft, stale crumbs 

J/2 lb. salt pork 1 &gg to eacb c. of crumbs 

^ onion 2 t. salt 

1 tb. lemon juice f. g. pepper 

Milk or dressing to moisten 
Beat the eggs. Wipe and trim the meat and chop or grind 
with the onion. Mix with it the crumbs, eggs, and seasoning, 
and add enough liquid to make it hold together well. Shape into 
a loaf, dredge with flour, and put into a hot oven. When well 
l>rowned reduce the heat. Bake a1)out 1 hr. 

BEEF STEW. 

1^ lbs. beef 3 tb. lard or fryings 

4 potatoes Seasoning 

1 onion Flour 

Wipe and trim the meat and cut into inch cubes. Dredge 
with flour. Put the lard into a stew pan ; when very hot put in 
the meat cubes and the sliced onion, and brown well. Cover with 
boiling water and boil 5 min. Reduce the heat and cook below 
the boling point for 2 hrs. Cut the potatoes into dice and add, 
with the seasonings, a half-hour before serving. Thicken with 
flour mixed smooth with cold water, boil 2 min. and serve. 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF. 

Yj, lb. dried beef 2 c. White Sauce (pg. 31) 

Shred the beef, cover with cold water, and heat to the boiling 
point. Drain and add to the hot sauce. Serve with toast. 



36 MEATS^ 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 

1 lb. corned beef 2 tb. lard 

2 c. cdokcd potato Yi c. milk 

Grind or cho[) the meat and potatoes very line. Mix, and 
add to tlie lar 1, which has been heated in a frying pan. Pour 
over the milk, pat down with a spoon, and cook over a slow fire 
until brown on the bottom. Fold and serve. 

BAKED HASH. 

XYi c. chopped cooked meat ;4 c- chopped onion 
1]'2 c. chopped cooked potato Salt and pepper 
Water to moisten Buttered crumbs 

Mix all the ingredients except the crumbs. Put into a but- 
tered baking dish, cover with the crumbs, and bake in a moderate 
oven until the cruml)S are brown. 

MEAT PIE. 

1 Y^ c. chopped cooked meat Salt and pepper 
1^2 c. chopped cooked potato Oravy to pour 

J4 c. chopped onion Biscuit Dough (pg. 51) 

Line a greased leaking dish with the Biscuit Dough, reserv- 
ing enough for the cover. Mix the other ingredients and put 
into the pie. Moisten the edges of the pie and cover with dough, 
being sure to perforate the cover. Bake in a rather hot oven. 

MEAT SOUFFLE. 

2 tl). butter 1 c. soft stale crumbs 

2 tl). flour 2 c. chopped cooked meat 

2 c. milk 1 tb. chopped ])arsley, or 

1 t. salt 1 t. grated onion 

f.g. pepper 3 eggs 

Make White Sauce (pg. 31) of the first 5 ingredients, add 
the bread crumbs, the beaten yolks, and the parsley or the onion. 
P>eat the whites ^•ery stiff and fold carefully into the mixture 
Turn into a Ijuttered baking dish and l)ake about 35 min. in a 
slow oven. 

MINCED MEAT ON TOAST. 

Mix finely chopped left over meat with ef(ual proi)ortions 
of soft stale bread crumbs. Heat in well seasoned gravv or 
White Sauce (pg. 31). Serve on toast. 



MEATS. 37_ 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Wipe and trim the meat and cut into pieces suitable for 
serving. Dip tirst into flour, then into beaten egg with which 
1 tb. of water has been mixed, and finally into fine, dry, crumbs. 
Fry in hot lard to which a little butter has ben addeil. When 
well browaied drain off most of the fat, add 1 tb. of water, cover 
closely, and cook tender over a slow fire. 

VEAL POT-PIE. 

Cook the meat with the potatoes as for Beef Stew (pg. 35) 
adding several tbs. of minced parsley. Roll Biscuit Dough 
(pg. 57) to % in. in thickness and cut into 2 in. squares. Put al- 
ternate layers of stew and dough squares into a baking dish, hav- 
ing the dough on top. Add the broth from the stew and 
steam 1 hr. 



VEAL LOAF. 

Follow the recipe for Beef Loaf (pg. 35), substituting veal 
for the beef. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

Cut the liver in half-inch slices, cover with boiling water 
and let stand for 5 min. Drain, wipe, and remove the outside 
skin and tough veins. Season with salt and pepper and roll in 
flour. Cook until brown and tender in hot bacon fat or lard. 
Serve with Broiled Bacon or Fried Onions (pg. 26). 

BROILED BACON. 

Remove the rind, and slice the bacon as thin as possible. 
Lay the slices in a hot frying pan and cook until crisp, turn- 
ing once, and draining oft' the excess fat as it collects. 

FRIED HAM. 

Cut the ham into thin slices suitable for serving. Trim oft' 
the outside edges carefully. Cut oft' the excess fat and put it 
into a hot frying pan. Put in the ham and cook until tender and 
brown. 

Eggs mav be fried in the pan when the ham is removed. 



MEATS. 



SMOTHERED PORK CHOPS. 



4 tomatoes. 6 chops. 

4 little green onions. Flour. 

1 t. salt. Seasoning. 

^^'ash, scald, and peel, the tomatoes. Cut into quarters and 
})ut in a stewpan with the tinely chopped onion and the salt. 
Cook 20 min. 

Trim the excess fat from the chops and melt in a hot fry- 
ing pan. Roll the chops in flour, season with salt and pepper, 
and brown quickly in the hot fat. Add ^4 ^'- water, cover close- 
ly and })lace in a moderate oven for 15 min. Lift the chops, 
put the tomatoes in the f ryingpan and cook 3 minutes ; pour 
over the chops and serve. 



STEWED CHICKEN. 

Dress, clean, and cut up the chicken. Put into a stew pan 
and cover with boiling water. Cover and boil rapidly for a few 
minutes ; reduce the temperature and cook below the boiling 
point until tender, but not falling from the bone ; 1-3-2 hrs. is 
required for a year-old fowl, 3 hrs. or longer for old ones. One- 
half hour before serving season with 1 tb. salt and f. g. pepper. 
When the chicken is tender drain from the pan and stir into the 
broth a thickening of flour mixed smooth with milk or cream. 
Cook 5 min. Dumplings or noodles may be cooked in the 
dressing. 



FRIED CHICKEN. 

Proceed as for stewed chicken, using as little water as pos- 
sible. Cook the meat until tender, but be careful not to over- 
cook. Drain from the broth, season with salt and jjepper, roll 
each piece in flour, and fry brown in hot lard to which a small 
amount of butter has been added. The broth in the stewpan 
may be thickened for dressing or used as stock for soup. 



M EATS. 39 

BAKED FISH. 

Remove the scales and clean the fish carefully. Take off 
the head and cut out the fins. Remove the backbcme and ribs, if 
desired, by cutting inside along the backbone to the tail, sli])- 
ping the fingers under the bone at the tail end on the inside, 
and drawing them out to the ends of the ribs. Put in the stuff- 
ing and sew up. Skewer in the shape of a letter S to keep the 
fish upright, place in a baking pan, season with salt and pepper, 
and dredge lightly with flour. Bake until the flesh can be easi- 
ly separated with a fork. Abont 1 hr. is required. If the fish 
is very dry lay a few thin strips of bacon across the back before 
adding the flour. 

STUFFING. 

2 c. soft stale crumbs f . g. pepper 

2 tb. melted butter J^ t. salt 

1 tb. grated onion Water 

Mix the ingredients, using only enough water to moisten 
slightly. 

FRIED FISH. 

Scale, clean, and dry the fish ; bone as for baked fish, and 
season with salt and pepper. Cut into pieces suitable for serv- 
ing and roll each piece in flour. Fry in hot lard until brown 
and tender. 

FRIED SALT MACKEREL. 

Soak the fish with the skin side up in plenty of water for 
24 hours. Dry, flour well, and fry in hot lard until well 
browned. 

CREAMED FISH. 

2 c. cooked fish 4 tb. butter 
2 c. milk y. salt 

4 tb. flour f. g. pepper 

Flake the fish with a fork, discarding bones and pieces of 

skin. Make White Sauce (pg. 31) of the remaining ingredients 

and add to it the flaked fish. Heat thoroughly and serve on 

toast. 

If codfish is used, it must first be picked a])art and soaked 

soft in warm water. Omit the salt from the sauce if salt fish 

is used. 



-to MEATS. 

SALMON LOAF. 

1 lb. salmon 3 eggs 

2 tb. oil It. lemon juice 
•'-J. c. milk 1 tb. grated onion 

2 c- soft stale crumbs -4 t. salt 

t. g. pepper 
Flake the salmon and remove skin, bones _. and all but 2 tb. of 
the otL Soak the crumbs in the milk mixed with the beaten 
eggs ; add all the remaining ingredients and make into a loat. 
Dretrlge lightly with tiour and bake until well browned in a mod- 
erate oven. 

The mixture may be put into a buttered mold and steamed if 
desired. I hr. is required for steaming. 

OYSTER STEW. 

I qt. oysters 1 tb. fiour 

1 qL milk 5- t salt 

1 tb. butter f . g. pepper 

Scald the miUc. Cream the butter with the fiour and blend 
with a litde hot milk; stir into the rest (jf the milk and boil 2 
min. Season with salt and pepper. Strain the oyster liquor into 
a sauce pan over the tire. Wash the oysters in a litde water, 
inspecting them carefu':' ' ■ ' "s of shelL When the liquor b<:)ils 
add the oysters and cc :he eiiges curl: combine with the 

milk mixture and serve. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 
I pt. oysters 1 - a c. milk 

3 tb. butter 5^ t- salt 

3 tb. uour f . g. pepper 

Make White Sauce ( pg. 31 ) of the butter, tiour, milk, salt 
and pepper. Cook the oysters as for stew, combine \vith the 
sauce and serv'e on toast or crackers or in Patty Shells ( pg. 61). 

FRIED OYSTERS. 
Examine the oysters carefully for bits of shell. Wash in 
a small amount of water and drain. Roll in fiour. then in beaten 
egg, to which add 1 tb. of water and a little seasoning has been 
added, and finally in fine, drv crumbs. Fn.- until brown in hot- 
lard. 



MEATS. 41 



42 



SALADS. 

COOKED DRESSING. 

2 tb. butter f . g. pepper 

3 tb. flour 1 c. milk 
13^ t. salt 2 egg yolks 

1 t. mustard Yi c vinegar 

Make White Sauce ( pg. 31) of the butter, flour, salt, mus- 
tard, pepper, and milk. Beat the ^gg yolks and mix with the 
vinegar. Stand the sauce over boiling water and add the ^gg 
and vinegar, stirring until the mixture thickens. Cool quickly. 
If not needed for immediate use, put into a scalded glass jar, 
pour a few drops of vinegar over the top, cover closely, and 
keep in a cool })lace. If too thick when ready for use thin with 
cream or milk. 



MAYONNAISE. 

1 tgg yolk 1 c. oil 

Vi t. salt 4 tb. lemon juice or vinegar 

f. g. pepper 

Have the ingredients and the utensils cold. Put the yolk in 
a rather small shallow dish, add the salt and pepper, and beat 
with a silver fork or a small wisk beater until well mixed. Beat 
in the oil, a few drops at a time, until the mi.xture thickens, being 
careful that each addition is well blended before adding more. 
Now alternate the oil with lemon juice, beating thoroughly each 
time. If free oil comes in contact with free lemon juice or vine 
gar, the mixture will separate. The addition of too much oil at 
once will have the same result. When all the ingredients are in, 
beat for a few minutes to make light, chill, and keep cool imtil 
ready to serve. 

If the dressing should sei)arate, begin with a new ^gg yolk, 
beating tlie separated mixture, a little at a time, into it. 



SALADS. 43 



QUICK MAYONNAISE. 



Mix like Mayonnaise, thoroughly hlending the yolk of one 
hard-cooked egg with the raw egg hefore adding the other ingre- 
dients. The oil and vinegar or lemon juice may then he put in 
very rapidly without danger of curdling. 



FRENCH DRESSING. 

^ t. salt 4 tl). olive oil 

f. g. pepper 2 tl). vinegar or lemon juice 

Combine the ingredients in the order given and beat with a 
silver fork until well mixed. Serve at once. }{> t. of gratecf 
onion may be added if desired. 



CHEESE DRESSING. 

Make like French dressing, beating y^ c. crumbed Roquefort 
cheese, or grated cream cheese, with the oil before mixing with 
the other ingredients. 



SOUR CREAM DRESSING. 

1 c. sour cream f . g. pepper 

1 t. salt 3 tl). mild \inegar 

Beat the cream until frothy, add the salt, pepper, and vine- 
gar, and beat again. Serve with cucumbers and onions sliced 
together or with young lettuce. 



POTATO SALAD. 

6 cold Boiled Potatoes ( pg. LS) 1 cucumber or 

1 small onion 3 hard-cooked eggs 

1 t. celery seed 2 Cv thinned salad dressing 

Cut the potatoes and the cucumbers or the egg whites, into 
small dice ; grate the onion and mix these ingredients and the 
cellery seed witli the dressing, being careful not to mash the 
potatoes. Let stand in a cold place at least 1 hr. l>efore ser\ing. 
If eggs are used, rub the yolks through a sieve and sprinkle 
over the salad just Ijcfore serving. 



44 SALADS. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Wash and scald small firm tomatoes and remove the skins. 
Chill, and cut them nearly through into quarters or sixths. Ar- 
range on lettuce, press the sections apart at the top, put 1 tl). 
of salad dressing on each, and serve. 



TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Wash and scald firm, medium-sized tomatoes and remove 
the skins. Cut ofi" the stem ends and scoop out the pulp. Mix 
with salad dressing and finely diced cucumber and refill the to- 
matoes with the mixture. Place on lettuce leaves, add a little 
thick dressing, and serve. If desired, the cucumbers and toma- 
toes may be diced or sliced, and the dressing put on after it is 
arranged. 



CUCUMBER AND ONION SALAD. 

Pare the cucumbers and slice thin. Mix with finely sliced 
new onions and dress with Sour Cream Dressing. French Dress- 
ing, or Cheese Dressing. 



HEAD LETTUCE. 

Separate the leaves, wash each one carefully, and soak until 
crisp. Dry and arrange on salad plates or in a salad bowl. Dress 
with French, Cheese, or Sour Cream Dressing, or ser\e with 
Cooked. Dressing or Mayonnaise. 



DUTCH LETTUCE. 

Wash the lettuce and soak until cris]). Cut thinlv sliced 
bacon into small bits and l)rown in a hot frying pan. Add 1 tb. 
mild vinegar for each 2 tb. of bacon fat and pour the mixture 
over the thoroughly drained lettuce. 



SALADS. 45 



COLE SLAW. 



I 



1 small llrm cabbage ^4 c. Ainegar 

2 egg yolks 1 tb. butter 
14 c. cold water y> t. salt 

Trim the cabbage, cut into halves and soak in cold water' 
intil crisp. Drain thoroughl}' and cut into tine shreds with a 
knife or a slaw cutter. Beat the ^gg yolks and add the water an.d 
the vinegar. Stir over water just below the boiling point until 
thick, add the butter and the salt, and use hot or cold as a dress- 
ing for the slaw. If preferred, the cabbage may be dressed with 
Cooked or French Dressing: or with Cheese Dressing. 



CABBAGE SALAD. 

Cut the cabbage as for Cole Slaw. Mix with Cooked Dress- 
ing, arrange on lettuce leaves and sprinkle 1 tb. of chopped green 
pepper over each salad. The pepper may be shredded with the 
cabbage and served with French or Cheese Dressing. 



COLE SLAW WITH CREAM. 

Cut a small, iirm head of cabbage into eighths, remove the 
heart and chop the cabbage fine. Sprinkle lightly with salt and 
a very little sugar. Pound in a wooden Ijowl with a jjotato 
masher until soft, an.d drain ofif the water. Dress with whipped 
cream seasoned with \inegar and pepper. 



SPRING SALAD. 

Cut red radishes in thin slices without paring. Mix with 
equal parts of ])ared sliced or diced cucumber and Y^ as nuich 
very thinly sliced new onions. Heap on lettuce leaves, endive 
leaves or water cress. Serve with French or Cheese Dressingf. 



TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

Make like Perfection vSalad ( pg. 46). omitting the vege- 
tables and substituting 2 c. of hot stewed tomato for the boiling 
water. If desired clear, the tomato should be strained. Finely 
diced cucumber or radish may be mixed with the gelatin when 
it is partly stiffened, 



46 SALADS. 



PERFECTION SALAD. 



2>4 tb. gelatin 1 t. salt 

3 tb. cold water 2 c. chopped celery 

2 c. boiling water 1 c. chopped cabbage 
J/2 c. vinegar ^4 ^'- chopped pimento 

3 tb. sugar Vi c. chopped nuts or olives if desired 
Soak the gelatin in the cold water, add the boiling water 

and the salt and sugar and stir until all are dissolved. Mix the 
celery, cabbage, pimento, and nuts, pack lightly into individual 
molds, and till the molds carefully with the cooled gelatin. 
Stand on ice or in ice water until the gelatin stittens. Dip the 
molds quickly into hot water and turn out the contents on crisp 
lettuce leaves. Ser\-e with Cooked Dressing. 



FRUIT SALAD. 

2 c. Malaga grapes 2 c. pineapple 

3-2 c. ^Maraschino cherries 
\\'a<h the grai)es, cut in halves and remove the seeds. Cut 
the pineapple in dice and chop the cherries. Mix all the ingredi- 
ents, arrange neatlv on lettuce leaves, and serve with sweetened 
whipped cream or with mayonnaise. 



WALDORF SALAD. 

3 c. diced apple Yz c. chopped nuts 

2 c. diced celer\- 1 c. Mayonnaise 

Cut the ap])les and mix at once with half the dressing to 
])revent discoloration. Add the celery and nuts, chill, and heap 
on crisp lettuce leaves. Put the remaining dressing neatly on 
top when ready to serve. 



BANANA SALAD. 

Peel firm ripe Ijananas, scrape, cut in haves across, and 
then in quarters lengthwise. Roll the pieces in finely chopped 
peanuts, arrange on crisp lettuce leaves, and serve with Cooked 
Dressing. 



SALADS. 47 



I 



48 

DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 

Doughs containing- yeast must be kept warm if they arc to 
rise. Extreme heat will kill the yeast and prevent rising. 

Dough that rises too much will be coarse and is likely to 
sour. Work the loaf down when it has doubled its bulk and let 
it rise again if for any reason it cannot l)e i)ut into the oven whci 
ready the first time. 

]n making a large quantity of bread, it is wise to warm the 
flour ; it must not become hot. 

The box in which the bread is kept should be scalded fre- 
quently. 

WHITE BREAD. 

P4 c. lukewarm water 1 t. salt 

1 tb. l)utter ',/. cake compressed yeast or 

1 tb. sugar J4 c. liquid yeast 

3 to 4 c. sifted flour 
Mix the yeast smooth with a little of the warm water and 
add to the rest of the water with which the butter, sugar, and 
salt, have been mixed. \Vhen the butter is melted beat in about 
2 c. of flour. Beat until the mixture becomes very elastic. 
C^ontinue adding flour until the dough can be lifted out on the 
board. Knead until no longer sticky, being careful not to work 
in so much flour as to make the dough hard. Orease the inside 
of the mixing pan and ])ut in the dough, turning it once to oil 
the top. Cover and ])ut over lukewarm water or stand in a warm 
])lace and let rise to doulile its bulk. Turn out, work lightly, and 
make into a loaf. Put into a greased bread i)an, brush with fat, 
and return to a warm ])lace to rise again. When it has doubled 
in bulk bake in a moderate oven at least 45 min. 

5 hrs. arc required to make bread with the above proportion 
of yeast. If the sponge is to stand o\er night use only one-half 
as much. 

MILK BREAD. 

T^roceed as in the above recipe, substituting scalded milk 
for the water. Re ^'ery careful to cool the milk to a lukewarm 
temperature before adding the yeast. 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 49 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

1 c. lukenann water ^ cake compressed yeast or 

1 tb. butter or lard ^4 c. liquid yeast 

1 tb. sugar 1 c. sifted white flour 

1 t. salt 2 to 3 c. sifted Graham flour 

Make like White Bread, stirring the white flour into the 
liquid first and beating thoroughly before adding Graham. The 
bran sifted from the Graham flour may be mixed in again if 
desired. 

FINGER ROLLS. 

1 c. scalded milk ^ cake compressed yeast or 

Yi t. salt J4 c. liquid yeast 

1 tb. sugar 2 tb. butter 

v3 to 3^ c. sifted flour 
Mix like Milk Bread. When the dough has risen to double 
its bulk pat out, on a lightly floured board, to 1 inch in thickness. 
Cut in strips 4 in. long and 1 in. wide. Roll each strip lightly 
between the palms, roll on a well greased pan and place 5-4 in- 
apart on a buttered baking pan. Let rise to double their bulk and 
bake 30 min. in a moderate oven. 

LIGHT ROLLS. 

1J4 c. lukewarm water ^ cake compressed yeast or 

2 tb. butter J4 c. liquid yeast 

^ c. sugar 3 to 3^-2 c. sifted flour 

1 1. salt 1 ^gg 

Mix like White Bread, beating in the ^g'g, after 1 c. flour has 
been added, and using only enough flour to make a soft dough. 
When risen to double its bulk, make into small rolls, stand 2 in. 
apart on a greased pan, brush with melted butter or milk, cover 
and keep warm until double in bulk. Bake about 40 min. in a 
moderate oven. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

Mix like Light Rolls. Butter shallow baking tins. When the 
dough has doubled its bulk turn out on a floured board, work 
lightly, divide into pieces and pat to fit the tins, having the dough 
Yi in. thick. Let rise to double bulk, brush with cream or milk, 
sprinkle each cake with 3 tb. of sugar mixed with y^ t. cinnamon 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



50 DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 



CURRANT BREAD. 

Mix and let rise like Light Rolls, adding 1 c. currants after 
the egg has l)een heaten in. Mold, let rise, and bake in a loaf. 



CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Mix like Light Roils. When the dough has doubled its 
bulk turn out on a lightly floured board, roll to 3^' in. in thickness, 
brush with butter or milk, sprinkle with sugar mixed with a little 
cinnamon and roll up. Cut the roll in 1 in. slices, lay the slices 
in a buttered baking tin, brush with butter, cover and keep warm 
until doubled in size. Bake 30 to 40 min. in a moderate oven. 



STEAMED DUMPLINGS. 

1 c. lukewarm water Ij cake compressed yeast or 

3 tb. butter % c. liquid yeast 

1 tb sugar 2>2 to 3>< c. sifted flour 

1 t. salt 1 egg 

Mix like White Bread (pg. 4<S) beating in the egg after 1 c. 
!l()ur has been added, and using only enough flour to make a soft 
dough. When the dough has risen to double its bulk, make into 
small rolls and place in the greased top of the steamer 3 in apart. 
Let them rise t(i dnnblc their size and steam 40 min. 



FRESHENED BREAD. 

Dip the stale Ijread or rolls quickly into cold water, i^lace on 
the rack in a moderate oven, and bake Vj hr. for bread, and 15 
min. for rolls. 

The bread may be moistened I)y steaming, until hot through, 
if desired. 

CRUMBS FOR CROQUETTES, ETC. 

Pieces of stale bread that cannot l)e otherwise used should 
be dried, without browning, in the oven. \A''hen dry, roll fine or 
put through a grinder and ])ut away in closed glass jars for use 
in making cro(|uettes and scalloped dishes, or for fried oysters or 
cutlets. 

Bread crumljs are superior to cracker crumbs, as they brown 
more readilv and have a better flavor. 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

3 c. sifted flour ^ t. salt 

5 t. baking powder 3 tb. lard or butter 

About 1 c. milk or water 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients and rub in the fat. Add 
the milk graduallly, mixing with a knife or spatula and handling 
the dough as lightly and as little as possible. Add only as much 
liquid as is required to make a soft dough. Turn out on a lightly 
floured board, roll or i)at to 1 in. in thickness and cut with a bis- 
cuit cutter dipped in flour. Bake in a hot oven 12 to 15 min. 



DROP BISCUITS. 

Proceed as for Baking Powder Biscuit, adding enough extra 
milk to make a dough that can be dro[)ped from a spoon. It must 
not be wet enough to spread on the pan. Drop on a greased pan 
and bake 12 to 15 min. in a hot oven. 



SHORTCAKE. 

2 c. sifted flour 3^ t. salt 

Syz t. baking powder 3 tb. lard or butter 

About 3/4 c. milk or water 
Mix like Baking Powder Biscuit. Divide the dough in halves 
and pat out into two rounds -34 i^i- thick. Brush the one with 
butter, lay the other over it and bake in a hot oven. When brown 
and v/ell baked separate the two rounds, put crushed sugared 
fruit between, pile sugared fruit on top, and serve. 



MUFFINS. 

314 c. sifted flour 3 tb. sugar 

1 t. salt 6 tb. melted butter 

5 t. baking powder 2 eggs 

V/2 c. milk 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat the eggs, add the 
milk and the butter, and combine the two mixtures. Put into 
buttered muffin tins and bake 20 min. in a moderate oven, 



m DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

4 c. sifted Graham flour Ij I. salt 

4 t. baking powder 2 c. milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients and stir in the milk. Pitt 
into l)uUered gem pans and hake 20 min. in a moderate oven. 



CORN BREAD. 

1 e. sifted flour X' t. salt 

1 c. eorn meal 2 tb. melted butter 

3 th. sugar or less 2 eggs 

3 t. baking powder 1 c. milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat the eggs, add the 
milk and the melted Imtter, and eombine with the hrst mixture. 
J'ake in a shallow pan or in muflin tins. 



NUT BREAD. 

l-y^ c. sifted Graham flour 1 t. salt 

l^i c. sifted wdiite flour 5 t. baking powder 

7<5 c. sugar lj/5 c. milk 

1 egg 1 c. coarsely ehopi^ed nuts 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add the nuts, and stir in 

the milk and the beaten eg^. Bake about 1 hr. in a buttered 

l)read tin in a moderate o\en. 



DUTCH COFFEE CAKE. 

2)4 c. sifted flour 3 tb. sugar 

3 t. baking pow^der 4 tb. butter 

y2 t. salt 1 egg 

Milk 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients and rub in the butter. 
Beat the egg, add enough milk to make 1'4 e., and stir into the 
first mixture. Turn out into a shallow buttered pan, brush the 
top with melted l)utter, s]M-inkle with 3 tb. of sugar mixed with 
J< t. cinnamon, and bake in a moderate oven. 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 53 



DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 

Pare and core two tart apples and cut into sections length- 
wise. Make a dough as in the preceding recipe ; put into a shal- 
low buttered baking pan and press the sharp edges of the apple 
slices lightly into the dough. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, 
and bake in a hot oven 25 to 30 min. 

DUMPLINGS. 

Mix as for Drop Biscuits (pg. 51 ). Drop l)y s])0()nfuls into 
boiling broth or stew, cover closely, and cook 10 min. 

EGG DUMPLINGS. 

2 c. sifted flour ^ t. salt 

2 t. baking powder 2 eggs 

y^. c. water 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat the eggs, add the 
water, and combine with the dry ingredients. Drop by spoonfuls 
into boiling broth or stew, co\er closely, and cook 10 min. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a dough as for Baking Powder Biscuit (pg. 51), roil 
out Yj^ in. thick and cut into 4 in. squares. Lay the pared and 
cored half of a tart apple on each scjuare, lap the corners of the 
dough, and squeeze together the openings in the sides. Place on 
a buttered pan and bake in a hot oven, or steam for 1 hr. Serve 
with Hard Sauce (pg. 74), or with cream and sugar. 

PEACH DUMPLINGS. 

Make like Apple Dumplings, using fresh or canned peaches 
in place of the apples. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

1^ c. sifted flour 2 tb. sugar if desired 

2 t. baking powder 1 egg 

Va, t. salt • % c. milk 

2 tart apples 
Mix and sift tlie dry ingredients and stir into them the 
beaten ^gg with which the milk has been mixed. Wash, pare, 
and core the apples, cut into rings or dice, and dip into the batter. 
Fry in deep, hot fat, drain, and sprinkle with pulverized sugar, if 
desired. 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 



BANANA FRITTERS. 

Peel, scrape, and quarter the bananas, and proceed as for 
Apple Fritters. 

WAFFLES. 

\}i c. sifted flour 2 eggs 

3 t. baking powder 1 c. milk 

1.4 t. salt 4 tb. melted butter 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat the tigg yolks, add 
the milk and the melted butter, and mix with the dry ingredients. 
Fold in the stiftly beaten egg whites and l)ake in a hot well- 
greased waffle iron. 

NOODLES. 

1 egg y2 t. salt 

Flour. 
Beat the egg. add the salt, and work in enough flour to 
make a stiff dough. Knead thoroughly and roll on a lightly 
floured board until very thin. Cover with a thin cloth and 
dr\- in an airy idace. fvoll and cut into very thin slices. Shake 
apart and dry thoroughly. Cook 20 min. in boiling salted water 
or stock, or put away for future use in a covered glass jar. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 

3 c. sifted flour i>4 t. salt 

4y^ t. baking powder 3 eggs 

2i4c. milk. 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs, add the milk, and stir gradually into the dry mixture. Stir 
imtil smooth aiid fold in the stiffly beatcii egg whites. Bake by 
spoonfuls on a hot greased griddle and serve at once. 



SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES. 

3 c. sifted flour 1 14 t. soda 

■)4 t. salt 3 eggs 

2;]4 c. buttermilk or scur milk. 
Alix as in preceding recipe. 



DOUGHS . AN D BATTE fiiS. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

3 c. buckwheat flour ^4 t. salt 

3 c. lukewarm water ^ c. liquid yeast or 

Yz cake comprsssed yeast 
Mix all the ingredients thoroughly. If compressed yeast 
is used, mix it smooth with a little of the wanii water before 
adding to it the other ingredients. Cover the batter and let 
stand in a cool place over night. Jn the morning stir in J/S t. 
soda mixed with a little warm water. Bake on a hot, lightly 
oiled griddle. 



QUICK BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

3 c. buckwheat flour 2 tlj. molasses 
6 t. baking powder ^ c. milk 

yX t. salt Xy. c. water 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients, and add the liquids. ]\lix 
smooth and bake on a slightly greased griddle. 



CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

2 c. corn meal ]A, c. sugar or less 
1 c. sifted flour 2 eggs 

3% t. salt 2]/:, c. milk 

3 t. baking powder 2 tb. melted butter 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Beat the eggs, add the 
milk and the melted butter, and combine with the first mi.xture. 
Bake on a well oiled sfriddle. 



PLAIN CAKE. 

y2 c. butter 2 c. sifted flour 

1 c. sugar 2^ t. baking powder 

2 eggs ■ , 7/5 c. milk 

J/> t. flavoring. 
Cream the Imtter with the sugar, add the eggs and beat 
thoroughly. Add the flavoring. Mix and sift the flour and bak- 
ing powder and add alternately with the milk to the first mix- 
ture. Bake about 25 n.iin. in a moderate oven, using 2 layer 
cake tins or a shallow loaf tin. 



156 DOUGHS AND BATTER'S. 



WHITE CAKE. 

y2 c. butter <;>< c. sifted flour 

1 54 <-"• sugar 3 t. baking powder 

1 t. tiavoring 1 c. milk 

4 ^%^ whites 
Mix Hke Phiin Cake, folding in the stiffly beaten ^gg whites 
last. 

SPICE CAKE. 

1 c. sugar 2 c. sifted flour 
54 ^^- ^^""^ 2 ^- ^'iniiainon 
34 c. butter 1 t. cloves 

2 tb. molasses 5 2 t. nutmeg 

2 eggs 3 t. baking powder. 

1 c. milk 
Cream the butter and the lard with the sugar, add the eggs 
and beat thoroughly. Add the molasses. Mix and sift the dry 
ino-redients and add alternately with the milk to the first mixture. 
Bake in 2 buttered layer cake tins in a moderate oven. Frost 
with Raisin Frosting (pg. 59). 

CINNAMON CUP CAKES. 

y, c. ])utter 1>2 c. sifted flour 

1 c. sugar 2y2 t. baking powder 

2 eggs 1 tb. cinnamon 

]'2 c. milk 
Mix like Plain Cake, sifting the cinnamon with the other 
elrv ingredients. IHake in well greased muffin or cup cake tins. 

BERRY CAKE. 

1 c. sugar 2 c. sifted flour 

54 c. butter 1 t. cinnamon 

3 eggs 54 t. cloves 

1 c. blackberry jam '<! ' j t. baking powder 

3 tb. water 
Cream the butter with the sugar, add the eggs and beat 
thoroughly. Add the jam and the water and stir in the mixed 
and sifted dry ingredients. P>ake in ,2 layers and jnit together 
with Boiled Frosting ( pg. 59). 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. * 57 



GINGERBREAD. 

y2 c. lard or butler 3 c. sifted flour 

Yz c. hot water 1 t. soda 

1 Yz c. molasses 2 t. ginger 

1 ^g^ 1 t. cinnamon 

y% t. cloves 
Melt the fat in the hot water and add the molasses and the 
beaten eggs. Add the mixed and sifted dry ingredients and bake 
in a cool oven. 

SOUR MILK GINGERBREAD. 

Yz c. lard or butter 2^^'; c. sifted flour 

Yz c. sugar 1 t. soda 

1 c. molasses 2 t. ginger 

1 tgg 1 t. cinnamon 

Y2 c. l)uttermilk or sour milk 
Cream the fat with the sugar and add the molasses and the 
well beaten egg. Add the mixed and sifted dry ingredients alter- 
nately with the milk. 15ake in a cool oven. 

DEVILS FOOD. 

^4 c. butter 2}^ c. sifted flour 

2 c. sugar ^ t. soda 

v3 eggs 1 t. baking powder 

1 c. sour milk or buttermilk 2 oz. chocolate 
Cream the Initter with the sugar, add the (::gg yolks and the 
n^elted chocolate, and beat thoroughly.. Mix and sift the dry 
ingredients and add alternately with the milk to the first mix- 
ture. Fold in the stifily beaten whites and bake in a buttered 
pan in a moderate oven. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

1 c. sifted flour Ya t. salt 

1 c. sugar ■ Y- t- cream of tartar 

1 c. ^gg whites 1 t. vanilla 

Mix the flour and the sugar and sift 4 times. Beat the ^gg 
whites with the salt until frothy, add the cream of tartar and 
licat until stiff and dry. Vdd the \ anilla and fold in the flour 
and sugar carefully. Turn into an ungreased mold having the 
bottom lined with paper. Bake 45 min. to 1 hr. in a cool oven. 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

5 eggs ys c. sifted flour 

' >8 c. sugc-^r M t. salt 

1 tb. lemon juice >j t. cream of tartar 

Beat the egg yolks with the sugar until the mixture is ligh*: 
in\d lemon colored. Add the lemon juice and stir in the flour. 
Beat the egg whites with the salt until frothy, add the cream of 
tartar and beat until light and dry. Fold the whites carefully 
into the first mixture, turn into an unbuttered mold having the 
bottom lined with paper, and l)ake in a cool oven 45 min. to 1 hr. 

SUNSHINE SPONGE CAKE. 

5 egg yolks ^i t. salt 

1 ^ c. sugar ^ t. cream of tartar 

1 c. sifted flour 1 t. vanilla 

7 egg whites 
Mix and sift the sugar and flour 4 times. Beat the egg 
wdiites with the salt until frothy, add the cream of tartar and 
beat until stiff and dry. Add the beaten yolks and the vanilla 
and beat again. Fold in the flour and sugar carefully and turn 
into an ungreased mold having the bottom lined with paper. 
Bake in a cool oven 45 min. to 1 hr. 



QUICK FROSTING. 

2 tb. hot milk 1 t. fla\'oring 

About 1 c. confectioner's sugar 
Sift the sugar and stir gradually into the hot milk until thick 
enough to spread, adding the flavoring after jA c. of sugar has 
been put in. 

CHOCOLATE MILK FROSTING. 

iy2 c. sugar 1 t. cornstarch 

•;4 e. hot milk 1 sq. chocolate 

1 t. butter 
Mix the sugar with the cornstarch, stir in the hot milk, add 
the sha\'ed chocolate, and boil without stirring until a little of 
the mixture forms a soft ball on cold water. Remove from tlic 
fire, add the butter, and l)eat the mixture until creamy. Spread 
at once. 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 59 



BOILED FROSTING. 

1 c. sugar 1 t. flavoring ~ 

Yz c. hot water 1 large ^gg white or 

2 small ^g<g whites 
Dissolve the sugar in the water, l)eing careful to leave no 
granules on the sides of the pan. lioil without stirring until the 
syrup threads from the tines of a fork. Pour very slowly into 
ihe stiffly beaten ^gg whites, beating constantly until thick- 
enough to spread. Add the flavoring and put on the cake at 
^nce. If the frosting is very slow in thickening, stand in a pan 
of hot water to beat. 

MAPLE FROSTING. 

Make like Boiled Frosting, substituting 1 c. of maple syrup 
for the sugar and water. 

RAISIN FROSTING. 

1 c. sour cream 1 c. brown sugar 

J4 c. finely chopped raisins 
Mix all the ingredients and cook over boiling water until a 
drop on a cold plate will not run. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

2 eggs 1 c. sugar 

•;4 c. milk 3 t. baking powder 

2 tb. melted butter y'l t. salt 

About 3 J/2 c. sifted flour 
Mix and sift the sugar, the baking powder, and the salt, 
with 2 c. of the flour. Beat the eggs, add the milk and the 
melted butter, and combine with the dry mixture. Add enough 
extra flom^ to make a soft dough, chill, tiu'n out half at a time 
on a floured board, roll V\ in. thick, cut with a floured cutter, 
rmd fry in deep hot fat. Drain, and roll in powdered sugar. 

JELLY TARTS. 

Make like Lemon v'^ugar Cookies (pg. 60), using only 1 tb. 
lemon juice. Drop by spoonfuls on a greased tin, make a sligiU 
depression in the middle of each cookie, (\xo\) in f /> t. of stiff 
jellv and bake in a hot oven. 



60 DOUGHS AN D BATTERS. 

LEMON SUGAR COOKIES. 

' y2 c. butter 2 c. sifted flour 

Y^,^:. sugar J4 t. soda 

2 eggs 1^2 tb. lemon juice 

Cream the butter with the sugar, add the eggs and beat 
tlioroughly. Add the lemon juice and stir in the flour which 
has been sifted with the soda. Drop by spoonfuls on a buttered 
tin and flatten each cookie slightly with a spoon or spatula. 
Have the cookies about 1 in. apart, sprinkle lightly with sugar, 
and bake in a hot oven. 



/> 



SCOTCH COOKIES. 

XYi c. rolled oats 
3'3 c. lard 2 c. sifted flour 

1 c. sugar Yz t. soda 

2 eggs 2 t. salt 

Yz c. sour milk Yi c- chopped raisins 

Cream the fat with the sugar and add the beaten eggs and 
the milk. Sift the soda, salt and flour together, add the rolled 
oats and the chopped raisins and combine wdth the first mixture. 
Drop by si)Oonfuls, 1 in. ajjart, on a greased tin and bake in a 
hot oven. 



HERMITS. 

1 c. butter 1 Yz t. baking powder 

1 Y^ c. brown sugar Y^ ^- soda 

3 eggs 1 t. cinnamon 

2 tb. water 1 c. chopped raisins 

1 c. Graham flour ^ c. chopped citron 

2 c. sifted flour Y^ c. chopped nuts 
Cream the butter with the sugar, beat in the eggs and add 

the water, v^ift the white flour with the baking powder, soda and 
cinnamon, and add the Graham flour, raisins, citron and nuts. 
Combine with the first mixture and drop by spoonfuls on a 
buttered tin. Bake in a hot oven. 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 61 



KISSES. 

4 egg whites 1 c. sugar 

J4 t. vanilla 

Beat the egg whites stiff and dry, then beat in the sugar 

gradually, adding the vanilla last. Drop by spoonfuls on glazed 

paper, place on a wet board and bake until lightly browned. 

Remove from the paper and stick together in twos. 



PIE CRUST. 

2 c. sifted flour 9 tb. lard 

y> t. salt Cold water 

Mix and sift the flour and salt and rub in the fat. Add the 
water a few dro])s at a time, lifting the dough, as it forms, with 
a knife, and handling as lightly and as little as possible. Use 
only enough water to keep the flour together, (father the dough 
into two smooth rounds without squeezing. Lay on a floured 
board, pat out, turn over and roll with a floured pin. Keep the 
dough round by rolling both ways and move it about and turn it 
to ])re\ent sticking. The crusts should be rolled large enough 
lo extend a little beyond the edge of the i)an. Fit the lower 
crust into the tin, being careful to leave no air between. Moisten 
the crust around the edge. Fill the pie. Roll out the top crust, 
cutting perforations for steam to escape. Fit on the top crust, 
pressing it down well on the moist edge of the lower crust. Trim, 
and bake in a hot oven. The above proportions will make one 
large i)ie. 

PLAIN PATTIES. 

Line muBm or gem tins with pie crust, allowing the crusts 
to extend a little ])ast the edges of the tins. Re careful to expel 
the air from under the crust. If blisters should form after the 
patties have been in the oven ten min., pierce them with a sharp- 
tined fork. Bake in a hot oven and serve fllled with creamed 
meats or vegetables. 



CHERRY PIE. 

Wash the cherries, remove the stones and proceed as for 
-\j)ple Pie (pg. 62), dredging the fruit with 1 tb. of flour before 
putting on the upper crust. 



62 DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 



APPLE PIE. 

Use y^ c. sugar to a medium sized pie, if the apples are 
tart, ; very sour apples require more. Sprinkle the sugar over 
ihe lower crust to prevent the juice from cooking out. Fill the 
pie with thinly sliced ai)plcs, sprinkle lightly with cinnamon or 
nutmeg, and add a few dots of hutter. Cover and bake as 
diirected in Pie Crust recipe. 

APPLE TART. 

Wash., pare, cut in halves, and core 3 or 4 tart apples. Lay 
the halves close together in a tin lined with crust. Fill the cavity 
of each half apple with sugar mixed with a little cinnamon, 
add a bit of butter to each, dredge very lightly with flour and 
i;ake in a hot oven. 



CUSTARD PIE. 

3 c. milk f. g. salt 

3 eggs Yi c. sugar 

f. g. nutmeg or cinnamon 
Line a large tin with crust, brush with white of tgg, and 
(iry in a hot oven. Mix the milk with the sugar, salt, and slightly 
beaten tgg and put the mixture into the crust. Sprinkle with 
the spice and bake in a moderate oven. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Make like Custard Pie, adding 1 c. shredded cocoanut and 
omitting the s])ice. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

1 3/2 e. cooked pumpkin •;4 t. salt 

•>4 c. sugar . V2 t. ginger 

1 t. cinnamon 2 eggs 

1 1 2 c. milk 
Line a tin with ])aste, Ijrush witli wlnte of egg, and dry in 
a hot oven. Rnl) the pumpkin through a sieve. Mix the dry 
ingredients and com1)ine with the pumpkin, the beaten eggs, 
and the milk. Fill the crust with the mixture and bake in a 
n^odcrate oven. 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 63 



CREAM PIE. 

3 c. milk 3 egg yolks 

3 tb. cornstarch ^ t. salt 

■)4 c. sugar )< t. vanilla 

Mix the cornstarch with 3 tb. of milk. Scald the remaining 
milk over hot water, stir in the cornstarch mixture and cook 10 
min. Beat the egg yolks with the sugar and salt until lemon 
colored and stir the ^mixture into the milk. Cook 15 min. longer, 
stirring occasionally to keep smooth. Cool slightly, add the 
vanilla and turn into a large baked crust. Dot or cover with 
Meringue and brown in the oven. 



MERINGUE. 

2 egg whites 2 tb. sugar 

y^ t. vanilla 
Beat the whites until .stiff and dry, and beat in the sugar 
csnd vanilla. Drop by spoonfuls on uncovered pie or pudding 
and brown lightly in the o\'en. If the pudding cannot conve- 
niently be put into the oven, the meringue mixture may be drop- 
ped on a pan of hot water, browned in the oven and then trans- 
ferred to the pudding. 



CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE. 

]\Iake like Cream Pie, adding 1 sq. finely cut chocolate to 
tl'.c egg yolk mixture and using 1% c. sugar. 



LEMON PIE. 

2-V4 c. milk 1 yi c. sugar 

3 tb. cornstarc.il ^s t. salt 

3 egg yolks j/^ c. lemon juice 

Mix and cook like Cream Pie, beating in the lemon juice 
after removing from the lire. Cool slightly and turn into a large 
baked crust. Cover with meringue and brown in the oven. 



64 DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 



LEMON BUTTER. 

1 lemon — yellow rind, and jnice 2 eggs 

1 c. sugar ]^2. tb. butter 

Beat the eggs, add the remaining ingredients and cook over 
hot water until thick. Chill and use like marmalade. 



LEMON TARTS. 

Put a thin filling of Lemon Butter into baked Plain Pat- 
ties (pg. 61). 



CREAM PUFFS. 

1 c. boiling water 1 c. flour 

j/2 c. butter 4 eggs 

Melt the butter in the water. When the mixture boils pour 
in the flour and stir until it collects in a ball around the spoon. 
Remove from the fire and i)eat in the eggs, one at a time, hav- 
ing each one thoroughly mixed before adding another. Drop by 
spoonfuls on a greased tin having them about XYi in. apart. 
Bake 30 to 40 nun. in a moderate oven. Make an opening in 
the side of each and fill with filling for Cream Pie (pg. 63) or 
Chocolate Cream Pie (pg. 63). 



STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

3 tb. butter 2^4 c. sifted flour 

-/z c. sugar 4jX t. baking powder 

1 ^^'g 4 tl). cocoa or 2 sq. chocolate 

1 c. milk y^ t. salt 

Cream the butter with the sugar, add the egg and l)eat thor- 
oughly. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add alternately 
with the milk to the first mixture. If chocolate is used, melt 
iL and add after the sugar. Put into a buttered mold and steam 
2 hrs. Serve with cream or sauce. 



DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 65 



COTTAGE PUDDING. 

2 c. sifted flour y^ t. salt 

Y^, c. ^sugar ' 1 c. milk 

4 t. baking powder 4 th. melted butter 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients ; beat the eggs, add the milk 
and butter and combine with the first mixture. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven and serve hot with a sauce. 



STEAMED SUET PUDDING. 

3 c. sifted flour Yz t. nutmeg 

1 t. soda 1 t. cinnamon 

IY2 ^- salt 1 c. finely chopped suet 

Y t. ginger 1 c. milk 

Y2 t. cloves 1 c. molasses 

1 c. chopped raisins. 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add the suet and rais- 
ins. Add the molasses to the milk and stir into the dry mix- 
ture. Turn into a buttered mold and steam 3 hrs. Serve hot 
with sauce. 



66 DOUGHS AND BATTERS. 



67 

MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

2 c. diced stale bread 3 eggs 
1 qt. scalded milk ^ t. salt 

Yz c. sugar Yi c. raisins 

f. g. nutmeg 
Soak the l)read and the raisins in the scalded milk. Add 
the beaten eggs, the sugar, and the salt. Turn into a buttered 
pudding dish, sprinke with the nutmeg, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Make a filling as for Custard Pie ( pg. 62) flavoring with va- 
nilla, if desired. Put into a large mold or into individual molds, 
sprinkle with the spice, stand in a pan of hot water, and bake in 
a moderate oven until firm. 

SOFT CUSTARD. 

2 c. scalded milk Ya c. sugar 

3 tgg yolks 1 t. flour 

f. g. salt 1 t. vanilla 

Mix the dry ingredients and add to the slightly beaten (t^g 
yolks. Stir the mixture into the hot milk and cook over boiling 
water until thickened ; about 2 min. 

MONDAY PUDDING. 

Cut stale cake into inch dice and cover with Soft Custard. 
Lay Meringue (pg. dl) browned on hot water, on top if desired. 
Chill thoroughly before serviTig. 

RICE PUDDING. 

2 c. Boiled Rice (pg. 4) ^ c. sugar 

1 Y2 c. milk ji' c. raisins 

1 beaten t.gg f- g- salt 

f. g. cinnamon. 
Mix all the ingredients but the cinnamon. Put into a but- 
tered baking dish, sprinkle with the spice and bake in a moderate 
oven until thick and brown. Serve cold. 



68 MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS. 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

1-3 c. tapioca 1 tb. butter 

2 c. scalded milk 2 eggs 

y^ c. sugar f. g. salt 

If coarse or i)earl tapioca is used it must be soaked 1 lir. 
in cold water before cooking. Mix the tapioca with a little cold 
water and stir it into the hot milk. Add the salt and cook over 
boiling water until the granules are transparent. Beat the egg 
yolks with the sugar and the butter, stir the mixture into the 
pudding, and cook until thickened ; about 3 min. is required. 
Remove from the fire, add the flavoring, and fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites. The whites may l)e mixed with sugar as a Me- 
ringue (pg 63). heaped lightly on the pudding, and browned in 
the oven. Chill and serve. 



APPLE TAPIOCA. 

1 c. ta])ioca ^ t. salt 

3 c. boiling water )j c. sugar 

2 tb. butter 6 tart apples 

Soak coarse or pearl tai)ioca in cold water 1 hr. before 
cooking. Mix the tapioca with a little cold water and stir into 
the boilng w^ater to which the salt has been added. Cook ovei" 
boiling water until transparent. Pare the ap])les, cut in halves, 
core, and place in a buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with the 
sugar and dot with the butter. Pour the tapioca over the ap- 
ples and bake in a moderate oven untl the apples are soft. Serve 
with cream and sugfar. 



BROWN BETTY. 

4 c. diced tart apples J-j c. sugar 

2 c, soft stale crumbs J4 t. cinnamon 

3 tb. butter. 
Mix the sugar and the cinnamon, add the apples and Ij/ c. 
of the crumbs, 'i'urn the mixture into a Inittered ])udding dish, 
sprinkle with the remaining crumbs, dot with the butter, cover, 
and bake in a moderate oven until the apples are soft. Uncover 
rmd brown. Serve with sugar and cream or with Lemon Sauce 
(pg. 74). 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS. 69 

CHOCOLATE CORNSTARCH PUDDING. 

4 c. scalded milk 34 t. salt 

Yz c. sugar (y]A tb. cornstarch 

3 tb. cocoa or \yy sq. chocolate 

Mix the sugar, salt, cornstarch, and cocoa. Stir in the hot 
milk gradually, stirring until smooth. Stir and cook over l)oil- 
mg water until thick. Cover and cook 30 min. Turn into a wet 
mold, chill, and serve with cream and sugar. The stiffly beaten 
whites of 3 eggs may be folded into the mitxure before molding, 
if desired. 



GELATIN. 

2^ tb. granulated gelatin 1 c. sugar 
^4 c. cold water 2y2 c. boiling water 

y^ c. lemon juice 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water. Dissolve the sugar in 
the boiling water, remove from the lire, add the gelatin and stir 
until dissolved. Add the lemon juice and turn into a wet mold. 
Chill until firm, dip the mold for a moment in hot water, turn 
out the gelatin and serve with cream and sugar. Diced fruit 
of any kind may be stirred into the gelatin when it begins to 
stiffen if desired. 



PRUNE WHIP. 

5 ^gg whites X? lb. dried prunes 

Yo c. sugar Xy^ c. prune pulp 

y-j, tb. lemon juice 

Wash the dried prunes, soak in water to cover, and cook in 
the same water until soft. Remove the stones, chop, add the su- 
gar, and cook until thickened. Add the lemon juice and fold 
mixture carefully into the stiffly beaten whites. Pile lightly 
into a buttered baking dish and bake 20 min. in a cool oven. 
Chill and serve with Soft Custard (pg. 67) or cream. 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS. 



STRAWBERRY WHIP. 

2 c. strawberries 1 c. sugar 

1 pt. cream 
Mash the strawberries and drain off the juice. Whip the 
cream very stiff. Mix the sugar with the drained berries and 
told the mixture carefully into the cream. Chill and serve. 



SNOW PUDDING. 

2 lb. granulated gelatin IjA c. sugar 
j4. c. cold water • 1 tb. lemon juice 

iy2 c. hot water 3 egg whites 

Mix as for Gelatin (pg. 69). When the mixture has be- 
come as thick as jelly beat it with a whisk beater until frothy, 
add the stiffly beaten egg whites, and continue to beat until stiff 
enough to hold its shape. Mold or heap on a flat dish. Chill 
and serve with Soft Custard (pg — ) made from the egg yolks. 



CHARLOTTE. 

Make like Snow Pudding adding }i c. cooked prune pulp in 
place of the lemon juice. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

23/2 tb. granulated gelatin yj c. sugar 

y4 c. cold water 1 tb. lemon juice 

2 c. granulated pineapple 2 c. cream 

1 c. chopped nuts, if desired 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water. Heat the pineapple and 
dissolve in it the gelatin and the sugar ; cool and add the lemon 
juice and nuts. Whip the cream stiff'. When the gelatin mix- 
ture becomes as stiff as jelly, fold in the whi]:)ped cream. Heap 
the mixture in a mold, chill, and serve. 



RASPBERRY CREAM. 

Make like Pineapple Cream substituting 2 c. berry juice 
for the pinea])ple. 



Miscellaneous desserts. 71 



VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

1 qt. cream ^ c. sugar 

54 tb. vanilla. 

Scald the cream over hot water, remove from the hre, add 
the sugar and stir until it dissolves; cool and add the vanilla. 
vScald the dasher, lid, and can, of the freezer. Put the freezer 
together, closing it carefull)'. Put alternate layers of finely chop- 
ped ice, and salt around the can to come a little higher than 
the contents of the can. Put in the cooled cream, cover and 
freeze. Turn the crank very slowly until the mixture is half 
frozen, then turn more rapidly. 

Frozen mixtures have a better texture and flavor if allow- 
ed to stand, packed in ice, for several hours. Drain ofif the wa- 
ter, add more ice if needed, cover closely and let stand until 
ready to serve. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

1 qt. cream 13^ sq. chocolate 

1 34 c. sugar 1 t. vanilla 

Scald the cream over hot water. Melt the chocolate over 
hot water and rub smooth with the sugar. Add the mixture to 
the hot cream and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Cool and 
freeze like Vanilla Ice Cream. 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

1 qt. thick cream 1 ^ c. sugar 

1 c. berries 
Make like V^anilla Ice Cream adding the crushed berries 
when the cream is half frozen. Omit the vanilla. 



LEMON MILK SHERBET. 

1 qt. milk 134 ^'- sugar 

3/ c. lemon juice 
Dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice and stir slowly into 
the milk just before putting it into the freezer. Freeze like 
Vanilla Ice Cream. 



72 MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS. 



FROZEN CUSTARD. 

4 c. scalded milk 1 c. sugar 

1 tb. flour 1 egg 

f. g. salt 2 c. cream 

^4 tb. vanilla 
Mix tbe dry ingredients, stir in the scalded n.iilk and cook 
20 min. over hot water. Add the beaten egg, stir and cook until 
thickened. Remove from the fire, cool, add the vanilla and the 
cream and freeze as for Vanilla Ice Cream. 



COFFEE PARFAIT. 

\y2 c. strong coft'ee 1 ^^ c. sugar 

2 eggs 1 qt. cream 

Dissolve the sugar in the hot coffee and boil 10 min. Stir 
into the slightly beaten egg yolks and fold the mixture into 
the stifHy beaten whites. Whip the cream stiff, add to the mix- 
ture, mold, pack in salt and ice, and let stand 3 hrs. 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS. 



73 



74 

SAUCES. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

2 c. boiling water f. g. salt 

1 c. sugar 2 tb. butter 

3 tb. flour 1 t. vanilla 

Mix the flour, sugar, and salt ; stir in the water and boil 
5 min. Remove from the fire, stir in the remaining ingredients 
and serve. 

SIMPLE SAUCE. 

2 c. boiling water f. g. salt 

1 c. sugar f. g. cinnamon 

3 tb. flour 2 tb. butter 

3 tb. vinegar 
Mix like Vanilla Sauce, adding the cinnamon with the other 
dry ingredients, and substituting the vinegar for the vanilla. 

, LEMON SAUCE. 

Make like \^anilla Sauce, substituting 2 tb. lemon juice for 
the vanilla. 

FRUIT SAUCEi. 

Make like Vanilla Sauce, substituting fruit juice for the 
water and reducing the amount of sugar. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

2 c. boiling water f. g. salt 

1 ^ c. sugar 2 sq. shaved chocolate 

2^ tb. flour 1 tb. butter 

Yi. t. vanilla 
Mix the sugar, flour, and salt, stir in the water, add the 
chocolate, and boil 10 min. Remove from the fire and add the 
butter and the vanilla. 

HARD SAUCE. 

34 c. butter 1 c. sifted pulverized sugar 

1 t. lemon juice or '/> t. vanilla. 
Cream the butter, adding the sugar gradually. Add the fla- 
\oring. The stiffly beaten white of a small ^gg or a little cream 
may be added, if desired. 



SAUCES. 



76 

FRUITS. 

BAKED WHOLE APPLES, 

Choose tart apples, uniform in size. Wash the apples and 
cut out the cores, putting into each cavity 1 t. sugar and a 
small piece of butter. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with 
hot water and put in the apples. Bake in a hot oven until soft, 
basting occasionally with the water in the pan. 



BAKED APPLES. 

Wash and i)are tart apples, cut in halves, and remove the 
cores. Lay the halves close together in a baking pan containing 
a little water. Put into each half apple 1 t. sugar and a small 
piece of butter. Dredge lightly with flour and bake until soft 
and lightly browned in a hot oven. 



APPLE SAUCE. 

Wash, pare, ({uarter, and core tart apples. Cook closely 
covered over a slow fire, using enough water to cover the bottom 
of the pan. When soft mash, sweeten to taste, turn into a 
serving dish and sprinkle a few grains of cinnamon over the top. 



STEWED APPLES. 

Prepare the apples as for sauce. Cook tender in a syrup 
made of equal proportions of sugar and water. A piece of stick 
cinnamon or a slice of lemon rind may be cooked with the apples, 
if desired. 



STEWED DRIED FRUIT. 

Wash, and soak in cold water over night. Cook covered in 
the same water until tender. Sweeten to taste. 



STEWED PEARS. 

Cook like f^tewed /Vpples, making the syruj:) 1 part sugar and 
2 parts water. 



FRUITS. 77 



SPICED PEACHES. 



3 y^ lbs. peaclies 1 oz. stick cinnamon 

1 J/> lbs. light brown sugar 1 pt. vinegar 
^4 c. cloves 
Wash the peaches, nib ott the down and j)Ut them into a 
granite kettle. Dissolve the sugar in the A'inegar, add the spices, 
and boil 5 min. The spices may be tied loosely in a piece of 
clean cheese cloth, if desired. Pour the syrup and spices over 
the peaches and let stand over night. Place over the tire and 
cook until the fruit is tender. Avoid overcooking. Pack the 
peaches in sterilized jars, cover to overflowing with the syrup, 
add the spice if desired and seal. 



SPICED PEARS. 

Proceed as for Spiced Peaches. 



RHUBARB SAUCE. 

Wash the rhubard and cut into inch pieces ; if young do 
not peel. Add to the rhubarb ^4 ^s much sugar, cover closely, 
and cook over a low fire until tender. Be careful not to over- 
cook. 



CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

J^ick over and wash the cranberries and put into a large ket- 
tle with half as much sugar and ^ as much boiling water, 
Cover and boil until soft ; about 10 min. is required. 



CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Pick over and wash the berries. Add Ic. water for each 
qt. of berries ; cover and cook until soft. Rub through a sieve, 
add ■)4 as much sugar as juice, boil uncovered for 5 min., and 
turn into molds or glasses. 



78 FRUITS. 



APPLE JELLY. 



Wash, quarter and core the apples. Cover with cold water 
and cook in a covered kettle until soft. Mash, turn into a jel- 
ly bag and drain without squeezing. The juice that is squeezed 
out should be cooked alone. Put the juice into a kettle, add jKl 
as much sUgar, skim if necessary, and cook until it thickens 
when a drop is put on a cold plate. About 5 min. is required. 
Pour into sterilized glasses and when partly cooled cover with 
melted paraffine. 



GRAPE JELLY. 

Remove the stems and wash the grapes. Cook without wa- 
ter for 30 min., mashing the grapes when they begin to boil. 
Drain and cook as for Apple Jelly, using as much sugar as juice. 



.FRUITS. 



79 



80 



BEVERAGES, 

GENERAL RULES. 

1. Keep tea, coffee, and cocoa, in tightly closed cans. 

2. For hot heverages use freshly hoiled water. 

3. Avoid the use of tin or copper vessels in the prepara- 
tion of tea, coffee, cocoa, or beverages containing frnit juice. 

4. Never boil tea. Cocoa and chocolate are not properly 
made unless boiled. 



, COCOA. 

3 c. milk 2 tb. cocoa 

1 c. water 4 tb. sugar 

f g. salt. 
Scald the milk in a double l)oiler. Mix the dry ingredients, 
add gradually the hot Avater, and cook 5 min. Combine with 
the scalded milk and beat with a Dover beater until frothy, to 
prevent a scum from forming. 



CHOCOLATE. 

3 c. milk 4 tb. sugar 

1 c. boiling water J^ t. flour 

1 Yi sqs. chocolate f . g. salt 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Melt the chocolate over 
hot water and add the dry ingredents which have been mixed to- 
gether ; stir in the Avater gradually, and when smooth cook di- 
rectly over tlie fire for 3 min. Add the mixture to the scalded 
milk and l)eat with a Dover beater. 



BOILED COFFEE. 

1 c. coff'ee 6 c. boiling v.'ater 

1 c. cold water 
Scald the coff'ee pot, put in the coffee and mix with it 
1^2 c. cold water. Pour the boiling water over it and boil 3 
minutes. Remove from the fire and add the remaining cold wa- 
ter, louring it over the top and down the spout to settle the 
grounds. Allow the coffee to stand 5 min. before serving. 



BEVERAGES. 81 



COLD WATER COFFEE. 

1 c. coffee 6 c. cold water 

Scald the coft'ee pot, put in the coffee and the cold water, 
and stir until well mixed. Heat to the boiling point, remove 
from the fire, and settle the grounds as for Boiled Coffee. 



TEA. 

3 tb. tea 6 c. boiling water 

Scald the teapot and put in the tea. Pour over it the boil- 
ing water; cover, and remove from the fire. Steep 3 minutes 
and serve. i 



ICED TEA. 

Proceed as in the above recipe, straining the tea from the 
leaves after steeping 3 min. Add sugar to taste, stir until dis- 
solved and cool quickly. When ready to serve pour into glasses, 
allowing several small pieces of ice and a slice of lemon to 
each glass. 



LEMONADE. 

1 c. sugar 3 c. boiling water 

-/t, c. lemon juice (5 to 6 lemons) 
Dissolve the sugar in the boiling water and cook 5 minutes ; 
cool and add the lemon juice. When ready to serve dilute with 
water to the desired strength. The addition of 2 qts. of water 
will make it moderately strong. 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

1 c. sugar 3 oranges 

3 c. boiling water //4 pineapple, grated 

4 lemons yi pint grape juice 

Make a syrup from the sugar and the water as for lemonade. 
Cool and add to it the grated pineapple, the grape juice, and the 
juice from the lemons and the oranges. Dilute with water to the 
desired strength. The addition of 3 qts. of water will make it 
moderately strong, 



82 BEVERAGES. 



INDEX. 



83 



Page 

Abbreviations, Table of 2 

Apple 'Dumplings 53 

Apple Fritters 53 

Apple Jelly 78 

Apple Sauce 76 

Apples, (Baked 76 

Apples, Baked Whole 7-6 

Apples, Stewed 76 

Apple Tapioca 68 

Apple Tart 62 

Asparagus 26 

Bacon, Broiled ^ 37 

Banana 'Fritters 54 

Banana 'Salad 46 

Beans, BaKed 29 

Beans, Baked with Tomatoes. . 29 

Beans, Boston Baked 29 

Beans, Dried 29 

Beans, 'New Lima 28 

Beans, Shell 28 

Beans, String 28 

Beef, Creamed Dried 35 

Beef Hash, Corned 36 

Beef Loaf 3S 

Beef iRoast 34 

Beef Stew 35 

Beet Tops 27 

Beets, Pickled 30 

Beets, iRed 30 

Beverages, General 'Rules for... SO 

Biscuits, Baking Powder 51 

Biscuts, Cheese 12 

Biscuits, Drop 51 

Bread, Corn 52 

Bread, Currant ^ 50 

Bread, Freshened ' 50 

Bread, Graham 49 

Bread, Milk 48 

Bread, Nut 52 

Bread, White 48 

Brown Betty 68 

Butter, 'Lemon 64 

Cabbage, Boiled 25 

Cabbage, Creamed 25 

Cabbage, Scalloped 25 

Cauliflower 25 

Cake, Angel . 57 

Calve, 'Berry 56 

Cake, Devil's Food 57 

Cake, 'Dutch Appl© 53 

Cake, Dutch Coffee 52 

Cake, German iCoffee -. 49 

Cake, (Plain . . .; 55 

Cake, Spice 56 

Cake, 'Sponge 58 

Cake, Sunshine Sponge 58 

Cake, White 56 

'Cakes, Buckwheat 55 

Cakes, Cinnamon Cup 56 



Page 

Cakes, Corn Griddle 55 

CaKes, Griddle ^_^. ... 54 

Cakes, Quicic Buckwheat 55 

CaKes, iSour Milic Griddle 54 

Carrots 27 

'Carrots and Peas 28 

Cereals 3 

'Charlotte 70 

Cheese Balls 11 

Cheese Balls, Dutch 11 

'Cheese, Cottage 10 

Cheese Dressing 43 

Cheese Fondue 11 

Cheese and Macaroni 11 

Cheese and Rice 12 

Cheese 'Biscuits 12 

Cheese, iSweet Milk 11 

Cheese W'afers 12 

Cherry Pie , 61 

ChicKen, Fried 38 

thicken. Stewed 38 

Chocolate 80 

Chocolate Cream Pie 63 

Chocolate Ice Cream 71 

Chocolate Sauce 74 

Chops, Broiled -33 

Chops, Pan^Broiled 33 

Chops, Smothered Pork 38 

Cocoa ,. . . . 80 

Coffee, Boiled 80 

Coffee, Cold Water , 81 

Coffee Parfait 7'2 

Cocoanut Pie 62 

Cole Slaw 45 

Cole Slaw with Cream 45 

Cookies, Lemon Sugar ......... 60 

Cookies, Scotch 60 

Corn Bread 52 

Corn Fritters 24 

Corn on the Cob 24 

Corn, Scalloped 24 

Corn, iStewed 24 

Corn Pudding 24 

Cranberry Sauce t'l 

Cream of Wheat .* 3 

Cream Pie 63 

Cream Puffs 64 

Croutons 16 

Crumbs for Croquettes, etc 50 

Currant Bread 50 

Custard, Baked 67 

Custard, Frozen 72 

Custard Pie 62 

Custard, Soft 67 

Cutlets, Veal 37 

Doughnuts 59 

■Doughs and Batters 48 

iDressing, 'Cheese 43 

Dressing, Cooked Salad 42 



84 



INDEX. 



Page 

Dressing, (French 43 

Dressing, iMayonmaise 42 

Dressing, QuiCK Mayonnaise ... 43 

Dressing, iRoast Beef 34 

Dressing, Sour Cream 43 

Dressing, Steak 33 

Dried Fruit, Stewed 76 

Dumplings i 53 

Dumplings, Apple 53 

Dumplmgs, Egg 53 

Dumplings, Peach 53 

Dumplmgs, Steamed 50 

Eggplant 31 

Eggs, iCreamed 6 

Eggs, Deviled 7 

Eggs, iFried 7 

Eggs, iHard Cooked 6 

Eggs, Pickled with Beets 7 

Eggs, Poached 6 

Eggs, Scrambled 6 

Eggs, Soit CooKed 6 

Egg Toast 8 

Fish, BaKed 39 

Fish, Creamed 39 

Pisn, iFried 39 

Fritters, Apple 53 

Fritters, Banana 54 

Fritters, Corn 24 

•Frosting, Boiled 59 

Frosting, Chocolate Milk 58 

Frosting, Maple 59 

Frosting, (Raisin 59 

Frosting, Quick 58 

Gelatin 69 

Gems, Graham 52 

Gingerbread 57 

Gingerbread, Sour Milk 57 

Ham, Fried 37 

Hash, iBaked 36 

Hash, Corned Beef 36 

Hermits 60 

Hominy 3 

Horse-radish 30 

Ice Cream, Chocolate 71 

Ice Cream, Strawberry 71 

Ice Cream, Vanilla 71 

Jelly, Apple 78 

Jelly, Cranberry 77 

Jelly, Grape 78 

Junket, Vanilla 10 

Kisses 61 

Lemonade 81 

Lemon Butter 64 

Lemon Pie 63 

Lemon Tarts 64 

Liver, Calf's 37 

Macaroni, Boiled 31 

Macaroni, Cheese and 11 

Mackerel, iFried Salt 39 

Meat on Toast, Minced 36 



Page 

Meat Pie 36 

Meat Souffle 36 

Meringue 63 

Muffins 57 

Mush, Corn Meal 3 

Mush, Fried 3 

Mush, Oatmeal 3 

Noodles 54 

Nut Bread 52 

Oatmeal Mush 3 

Oats, Crushed 4 

Oats, Rolled 4 

Omelet, Baked 8 

Omelet, iFoamy 8 

Omelet, Plain 7 

Onions, Boiled 25 

Onions, Fried 26 

Onions, Scalloped 26 

Onions, Stuffed 26 

Oysters, Creamed 40 

Oysters, iFried 40 

Oyster Stew 40 

Pancakes, Potato 20 

Parfait, Coffee 72 

Parsnips, Browned 30 

Patties, Plain 61 

Peach Dumplings 53 

Peaches, Spiced 77 

,Peas, New 27 

Peas and Potatoes 27 

Pears, Stewed 76 

Pears, Spiced 77 

Peppers, Stuffed 30 

Pie, Apple 62 

Pie, Cherry 61 

Pie, Chocolate Cream 63 

Pie, Cocoanut 62 

Pie, Cream 63 

Pie Crust 61 

Pie, Custard 6'2 

Pie, Lemon 63 

Pie, Meat 36 

Pie, Pumpkin 62 

Pineapple Cream 70 

Potato Cakes 1 21 

Potato Cakes TI 21 

Potato Chips 20 

Potatoes, Baked 18 

Potatoes, Baked Sweet 21 

Potatoes, Boiled 18 

Potatoes, (Browned 19 

Potatoes, (Browned Mashed .... 18 

Potatoes, (Browned Sweet 21 

Potatoes, Peas and v^^. . . 27 

Potatoes, Creamed 20 

Potatoes, (French Fried 20 

Potatoes, F'ried 20 

Potatoes, Glazed Sweet 22 

Potatoes, Hashed Brown 21 

Potatoes, M'ashed 18 



INDEX. 



85 



Page 

Potatoes, New 19 

Potatoes, IPan-cooked 19 

Potatoes, Pan-glazed Sweet ... 22 

Potatoes, 'Roasted Brown 19 

Potatoes, (Scalloped 19 

Potatoes, iStuffed Baked 18 

Potatoes, IStuffed Baked Sweet. 21 

Potato Pan Cakes 20 

Pot-pie, Veal 31 

Pot Roast 35 

Prune Wlhip 69 

Pudding, 'Bread 67 

Pudding, Chocolate Cornstarcli. 69 

Pudding, Corn 24 

Pudding, Cottage 65 

Pudding, Monday 67 

Pudding, Rice 67 

Pudding, Snow 70 

Pudding, Steamed Chocolate.... 64 

Pudding, Steamed 'Suet 65 

Pudding, Tapioca 6S 

Puffs, Cream 64 

Punch, Fruit 81 

Raisin (Frosting 59 

Rarebit, Tomato 12 

Rarebit, Welsh 12 

Raspberry Cream 70 

Rhubarb Sauce 77 

Rice, Boiled 4 

Roast Reef 34 

Rolls, Cinnamon 50 

Rolls, Finger 49 

Rolls, Light 49 

Salad, Banana 4G 

Salad, Cabbage 45 

Salad, Cucumber and Onion. ... 44 

Salad Dressing, Cooked 42 

Salad, Dutch Lettuce 44 

Salad, Fruit 46 

Salad, Head Lettuce 44 

Salad, Perfection 46 

Salad, Potato 43 

Salad, Spring 45 

Salad, Tomato 44 

Salad, Tomato Jelly 45 

Salad, Waldorf 46 

iSalaid, Tomato and Cucumber... 44 

Salmon Loaf 40 

Sauce, Apple 7o 

Sauce, Chocolate 74 

Sauce, Cranberry 77 

Sauce, Fruit 74 

Sauce, (Hard (4 

Sauce, Lemon 74 

Sauce, Rhubarb 77 

Sauce Simple 74 



Page 

Sauce, Tomato 23 

Sauce, Vanilla "-'4 

Sauce, White 31 

Sherbet, Lemon Milk 71 

Shortcake 51 

Souffle, Meat 36 

(Soup, Bean 14 

Soup, Celery 15 

(Soup, Cream of Celery 16 

Soup, Cream of Corn 16 

Soup, Cream of Pea 1*J 

Sloup, Cream of Potato 16 

ISoup, Cream of Tomato 15 

Soup, Split Pea 15 

iSoup, Stock 14 

Soup, Tomato 15 

Soup, Vegetable 14 

Spinach 27 

Siquash, Hubbard 31 

Squash, Summer 31 

Steak, Broiled 33 

Steak Dressing 33 

Steak, Hamburg 33 

Steak, iPan^Droiled 33 

Steak, (Smothered 34 

Stew, Beef 35 

Stew, Oyster 40 

Strawberry Ice Cream 71 

Strawberry "W^iip 70 

Stuffing 39 

Succotash 2S 

Tapioca, Apple 6S 

Tapioca, Pudding 68 

Tart, Apple 62 

Tarts, Jelly 59 

Tarts, Lemon 64 

Tea 81 

Tea, Iced SI 

Toast, lEgg 8 

Toast, Cream 19 

Tomatoes, Baked 22 

Tomatoes, Broiled 22 

Tomatoes, Canned 23 

Tomatoes, Scalloped 23 

Tomatoes, (Stuffed 23 

Tomato Rarebit 12 

Tomato Sauce 23 

Turnips 30 

Veal Cutlets 37 

Veal Loaf 37 

Veal Pot-pie 37 

Wafers, Cheese 12 

Waffles 54 

Weights and Measures, Table of 2 

Wheat, Cream of 3 

White Sauce 31 



on" 



''Wf-m/. 







