


./ 44 









-V > 



c^ 



Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/costoffoodstudyiOOricliuoft 



WORKS OF ELLEN H. RICHARDS 

PUBLISHED BT 

JOHN WILEY & SONS 
43-45 East Nineteenth Street, New York 



Conservation by Sanitation. 

Air and Water Supply; Disposal of Waste. (Includ- 
ing a Laboratory Guide for Sanitary Engineers.) 
8vo, xii + 305 pages. Illustrated. Cloth, $2.5(J. 

LAboratory Notes on Industrial Water Analysis: A 
Survey Course for Engineers. 
Svo, 62 pages. Cloth, 50c net. 

The Cost of Cleanness. 

12mo, V-MU9 pages. Cloth. $1.00. 

The Cost of Living: as Modified by Sanitary Science. 
Third Edition, Hevised. 12mo. 164 pages. Cloth. 
$1.00. 

Air, Water, and Pood; Prom a Sanitary Standpoint. 
By Ellen H. Richards and Alpheus G. Woodman, 
Assistant Professor of Food Analysis, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. Third Edition, Revised 
and Enlarged. Svo. 278 pages. Cloth. $2.00. 

The Cost of Food : A Study in Dietaries. 
12nio. 161 pages. Cloth, $1.00. 

The Dietary Computer. 

By Ellen H. Richards, Instructor in Sanitary Chem- 
istry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, assisted 
by Louise Harding Williams. $1.50 net. PamphUt 
separately, $1.00 net. 

The Cost of Shelter. 

12mo. vi + 136 pages. lUustratsd. Cloth, $1.00. 

" Cost of Living: " Series. 

1. Cost of Living. 2. Cost of Food. 3. Cost of 
Shelter. 4. Cost of Cleanness. 12mo. Cloth. 4 
vols, in a box. $4.00. 



Published by WHITCOMB & BARROWS 

Huntington Chambers 

The Chemistry of Cooking: and Cleaning:. 

By Ellen H. Richards and S. Maria Elliott. 158 
pages. Cloth. $1.00. 

Pood Materials and their Adulterations. 

183 pages. Cloth. $1.00. 

Home Sanitation. 

Revised Edition. Edited by Ellen H. Richards and 
Marion Talbot. 85 pages. Paper. 25c. 
Plain Words about Pood. 

The Rumford Leaflets. Illustrated. 176 pages. 
Cloth. $1.00. 

Pirst Lessons on Food Diet. 

52 pages. Cloth. 30c net. 

The Art of Rlg:ht-Living:. 

50 pages. Cloth. 50c net. 

Sanitation in Daily Life. 

82 pages. Cloth. 65c. net. 






THE COST OF FOOD 



^ STUDY IN DIETARIES. 



BY 

ELLEN H. RICHARDS, 

Instructor in Sanitary Chemistry, 
Massachusetts Institute o/ Technology. 



SECOND EDITION. 

TOTAL ISSUE. FOUR THOUSAND. 




NEW YORK : 

JOHN WILEY & SONS. 

London: CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited. 

1913 



Copyright, 1901, 

BY 

ELLEN H. RICHARDS. 



THE SCIENTIFIC PRESS 

ROBERT DRUMMONO AND COMPANY 

BROOKLYN, N. Y. 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 



In reply to the many questions asked, the author 
wishes to state here that because the cost of the accus- 
tomed food of the average family has increased since 
the book was written, and because the price of board in 
restaurant and boarding-house has increased thirty per 
cent or more, it does not follow that all food has so risen 
in value. From the great variety and abundance of 
food materials offered to-day the purchaser may choose 
sufficient and nourishing food, which need not cost more 
than the prices given here. But it may not be just those 
materials to which the palate has been accustomed. 
Certain foods have gone out of fashion, corn meal is used 
very little, although in digestibility and palatability it out- 
ranks most of the prepared cereals sold for ten times as 
much per pound. 

The morning cream is a costly viand, but sugar is still 
inexpensive. Butter may be had at a very Httle if any 
advance. It will not be "gilt edge," but it will be just 
as wholesome and nutritious. Olive oil may be found 



m 



iv PREFACE TO THE: SECOND EDITION 

at the Italian shops and many other foods may be pur- 
chased of the less known dealers. 

Therefore it is pretty certain that the cost of nutrition 
has not advanced so much as the current opinion calls 
for. It is true, however, that it requires time and atten- 
tion and a modification of one's tastes to secure this 
nutrition, and this modification is the most distasteful 
exercise the ordinary person is called upon to undergo. 

Perhaps the most instructive comparison is that of 
the cost of food at Valparaiso, Indiana, given on pages 
128-130, of this volume, from data obtained by the 
author during a personal inspection in 1892. It was 
then $1.40 a week and room at 25 cents. Mr. George 
Kennan in McClure for March, 1908, gives the costs 
at $1.88 and fifty cents for room. This is in accord 
with the general trend of things. External factors, 
table linen, service, decoration, lights, furnishings — in 
short, the refinements of living have increased the cost 
of living, often doubling it, and just so far as these factors 
come into play in the serving of food they increase the 
cost of board, but not necessarily the cost of the raw 
material which is used. 

It is advisable to add a certain amount of this cost 
for the sake of refined living, but there is a limit to which 
the efficiency of the individual is increased by this addi- 
tion. 

There is nothing in the discussion of costs which the 
author wishes to "take back," and certain conclusions 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION V 

are only confirmed by seven years' experience and ob- 
servation. The study enjoined on page 13 is still needed, 
and the question at the bottom of page 68 is still perti- 
nent. Some recent books are listed at the end of the 
Bibliography. 
Boston, March, 1908. 



^ 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PACK 

I. Food a N^essity — Knowledge of Food-values a 
Present-day Necessity— Kind, Quality, and Cost 

of Food I 

II. Food for the Infant 15 

^III. Food for the School-child 29 

i*~IV. Food for the Active Youth 37 

'^V. Food for the Youth at College and for the Brain- 
worker 45 

VI. Food for the Traveller and Professional Person 52 

VII. Food for those in Penal and Pauper Institutions 60 

VIII. Food for the Person in a Hospital 70 

IX. Food for Middle Life and for Old Age 84 

X. General Principles governing Dietaries. go 

XI. Dietaries costing Ten to Fifteen Cents per Day per 

Person 98 

XII. Twenty-five Cents per Day per Person tii 

XIII. Forty to Fifty Cents per Day per Person 134 

XIV. Sixty Cents per Day per Person 138 

XV. The Dietary Computer 143 

XVI. Food for Incipient Tuberculosis 151 

Glossary of Terms Used 155 

Bibliography, Selected 159 

Recent Books on Food and Nutrition if^3 

Index 165 

vii 



THE COST OF FOOD 



FOOD A NECESSITY. KNOWLEDGE OF FOOD- 
VALUES A PRESENT-DAY NECESSITY 

"The physiological principle of the preparation of food is 
summed up in the postulate that it shall produce the highest 
efficiency in the individual and the race." — Thudichum, 

The food-supply is the controlling factor in all life, 
vegetable, animal, or human. In proportion as suit- 
able food is abundant, so thrives the living thing be- 
cause of the ease with which it satisfies its appetite. 
In the case of human food this ease is expressed in 
terms of money. Abundance means comparatively 
little cost of any article, so that it may be easily ob- 
tained by numbers of people. Therefore in presence 
of abundant food-supply prosperous communities are 
found. The plant must grow at the spot indicated 
by the presence of its food. The animal may range 
forest and plain in search of it. Early man did the 
same, and peoples grew strong where space for pas- 



2 THE COST OF FOOD 

turage or fertility of soil gave opportunity for herds 
and crops. 

Nineteenth-century man, by his development of 
means of quick transportation of foodstuffs from 
all quarters of the globe to any desired spot, has 
changed the problem so entirely that the small cost 
of any food material no longer depends upon its 
production in situ by the community which is to con- 
sume it, but only upon its transportable character. 

Wheat flour is cheap simply because it can be pre- 
pared in quantity on the spot where it is grown, and 
kept in storage or carried around the world without 
appreciable deterioration. Fresh fruits are dear be- 
cause they will not endure this handling and storage. 
They must be desiccated or preserved. This reason 
for cost is so often overlooked that it is worth while 
to emphasize it at the outset. The errors in buying 
food-supplies have their root in the mistaken notion 
that whatever is obtained at small relative expense 
is common and unclean; that the use of such food 
is a mark of plebeian tastes and leads to very low 
mental development. As a matter of fact the cost 
of food is no measure of its nutritive value. 
'' Cheap " food is that which has required little cap- 
ital or labor to produce. 

Formerly each race adapted itself to its environ- 
ment and trained its digestion in accordance with 
the available diet. In great measure the races of 



FOOD A NECESSITY 3 

earlier ages were modified by the possibilities of food 
in the lands to which they migrated. The influence 
of food upon character has yet to be adequately 
studied and discussed. 

In America to-day, the situation which confronts 
us, whether working man, student, or millionaire, 
is not how to get food enough, but how to choose 
from the bewildering variety offered that which will 
best develop the powers of the human being and 
make him efficient, and, what is of greater impor- 
tance, how to avoid that tempting variety, indulgence 
in which weakens the moral fibre and lessens mental 
as well as physical efficiency. So long as it is the 
popular belief that brilliancy of mind or position is 
chiefly due to luxurious food, served with the dis- 
guises of the chef's art, so long will the aspiring poli- 
tician and novel-writer change from one boarding- 
house to another in search of variety, and children 
will continue to demand the luxuries of the table un- 
rebuked. 

In spite of all preaching, few really believe that 
plain living goes with high thinking. Most, either 
consciously or unconsciously, attribute American 
versatiHty and success to the richness and variety of 
food so easily obtained. Neither moralist nor sani- 
tarian has begun to ask whether the increase of 
crime, of insanity, of certain forms of disease, of 
moral recklessness, is not attributable to the debili- 



4 THE COST OF FOOD 

tating effects of the food set before us, to the lower- 
ing of ideals of living so well exemplified in the details 
of the fashionable table. 

In the case of plants, the importance of nutrition 
to the organism has long been recognized. The 
gardener produces leaf or blossom at will, and even 
changes color and form, by the substances he fur- 
nishes to the growing plant. 

The American farmer and wage-earner thinks he 
has made a great advance when he can say, '' We keep 
help now and my wife and daughter can sit in rock- 
ing-chairs and read novels," but with the leisure and 
lack of interesting occupations comes the habit of 
nibbling sweets with the novels, the perverted taste 
in food as well as literature. The girls have more food 
and less work than is good for them, with the logical 
biological result that grandchildren fail. It is not 
over-education but over-nutrition which threatens 
race extinction. To quote Prof. Patten :* "Formerly 
the underfed failed to survive; now it is the overfed 
among whom the elimination is taking place. The 
ideal of health is to obtain complete nutrition. Over- 
nutrition, as well as under-nutrition, weakens the 
body and subjects it to evils that make it incapable 
of survival. The plethora of food now enjoyed in- 
duces men to eat and drink more than their systems 
can stand. . . . Must we look among women for the 

* " Development of English Thought," pp. 379-3^7- 



FOOD A NECESSITY 5 

best examples of over-feeding? ... It is said that 
all female animals become barren when overfed. . . . 
Cheap food and a sugar diet, therefore, make the 
conditions out of which the thought movement of 
the present epoch will proceed." 

Man has a wide range of activities, and because he 
does not see the separate result of any one, he is 
not sensitive to its effect. Man, also, has great 
adaptability, and abuses it by too sudden changes. 
Desire for food is one of the fundamental race in- 
stincts, and in pre-scientific days was supposed to 
take care of itself under all circumstances. Even 
now it is usually assumed to be a safe guide in food if 
not in drink. A distinguished physician has recently 
said : * 

" This splendid instinct — appetite — so necessary 
for our existence — especially in early times — has 
now more than ever to meet with sudden modifica- 
tions resulting from the complexity of modern life. 
While primarily responsible for the discovery of in- 
numerable aliments, the very abundance in this gen- 
eration, both in quantity and variety, is embarrassing, 
and we find the results of unnecessary and artificial 
stimulation in the unnatural desires for food. The 
lack of attention as to the appropriateness of food 
subjects not only the digestive apparatus but all the 
cells of the individual organism to distress and not 



* Dr. Charles G. Stockton. " Hygiene." 



6 TiTi': COST o)- Food 

infrequently to disease. In this matter the problem 
to be solved is, first, how to train the appetite into 
natural and wholesome paths, and, second, how to 
live so that by means of proper physical, mental, and 
moral activity there may be successfully oxidized 
the kind and quantity of nutriment required in nor- 
mal life, and that there may be successfully discharged 
the waste products that result from the oxida- 
tion. . . . 

'' It is unsafe to trust the individual to the guid- 
ance of the appetite alone, for the reason that this 
instinct was built up for a condition of existence 
very different from that which enables the people of 
this country to indulge themselves to-day." 

It is also true that appetite can be educated, di- 
rected, like any other habit, but it is still a common 
superstition that likings for food are inborn traits. 

It seems to be most difficult to inculcate the prin- 
ciples of right living in the face of this superstition, 
especially in the face of the intense individualization 
so widely taught — namely, that each person is a law 
unto himself. Respect for natural laws, obedience 
to the fixed principles which govern all living or- 
ganisms in order that freedom of activity may result, 
is most unwelcome teaching. The bearing of this 
attitude upon habits of life and cost of living is very 
evident. Every efifort to inculcate saner ideals is 
met with scoffing, with unproven assertions, and 



FOOD A NECESSITY 7 

with a demand for freedom and unrestrained choice 
as a mark of American liberty. Men have yet to 
learn that " independence cannot with safety be 
made to apply to their relations with nature." 

Scientific sociology must take account of these be- 
liefs and tendencies and inaugurate a series of studies 
of existing conditions and a controlling series of ex- 
periments before, any definite conclusion can be 
reached. The following suggestions are given for 
the purpose of indicating lines in which such studies 
and experiments are desirable. 

It is freely acknowledged that many of the state- 
ments have no basis of mathematical proof — only a 
foundation in observation of years and of a some- 
what wide range of conditions. If they can be scien- 
tifically refuted, well and good. But, if they are 
true, thoughtful young men and women will do well 
to take heed to their ways before it is too late. 
Cost of food is a result of several factors. 

Seed — a bushel of potatoes or corn withdrawn 

from consumption; 
Rent for ground to grow the plant or graze 

the animal; 
Fertilizer to renew the productive power of 

the soil; 
Labor to plough, plant, cultivate, gather; or 

to feed, water, and keep clean the animal; 
Machinery — utensils, wear, and tear; 



8 THE COST OF FOOD 

Interest on capital invested — building and 

Plant. 
Waste due to rainy or dry seasons, to disease 

of both plant and animal; 
Preparation for market; mismanagement of 

raiser, packer, transporter, distributer^^ 
Inevitable loss in dressing for the table, un- 
eatable parts; 
Indigestible portions, natural or produced by 

cooking, which must yet be paid for ; 
Preparation for the table; cost in labor and 
time, and waste in digestion, natural and 
due to wrong choice. 
If once the public can disabuse its mind of any 
idea of close connection between " food value " and 
cost — namely, that a cheap food is a poor food, 
that a dear food is a good food — then a beginning 
in scientific dietaries can be made. The cost of a food 
depends upon how many of these factors enter into 
its history before it is placed on the table. 

Pudding costs more than oat-meal mush because 
of the greater length of time required in preparation ; 
because skilled labor is necessary for the preparation 
and transportation of the ingredients. 

The excessive cost of board to-day is due to many 
other things besides the cost of raw materials. When 
a man pays $io a week for " table-board " he pays 
for fragile china, neat aprons and caps for the maid. 



FOOD A NECESSITY 9 

time oi' the cook in garnishing, choice of dishes, etc., 
etc., so that the raw material he consumes forms 
barely one-third the total cost. 

The cost of food is not only its money cost, it is 
the cost to the body to appropriate it which must be 
considered. 

Man is an adaptable animal but he often abuses 
his power by asking for its use too often and by 
making too sudden changes. He can live on the 
most diverse kinds of food as he can drink the softest 
or the hardest water, if he has been brought up to 
it, but sudden changes are apt to be disastrous. 

A man treats his stomach as if it were a thing 
apart from himself — an inanimate machine and a 
very simple one at that, not likely to get out of re- 
pair. Engineers know how to get the best work 
out of their engines, and they have learned that it 
pays to take care of the machine. Man's digestive 
apparatus is more delicate and compUcated than any 
machine, and yet he treats it with indifference, neg- 
lect, and even contempt. He runs it without trying 
to understand it, and blames everything but himself 
if it gives out. In pioneer days circumstances were 
the stern teachers of wisdom, but now temptations 
to indulgence are on every street-corner and at 
every family table. Men go on as if they were made 
of cast iron, as if by mere will power they could make 
poisons into food. 



lO THE COST OF FOOD 

To a watcher of events it is maddening to see the 
crowd rushing on to destruction, not seeing the 
precipice and not believing any warnings, attributing 
the disappearance of friend after friend to any but 
the right cause. 

When a man drops dead in the street his friends 
say, Oh, he has been Hving at high pressure; he 
has had many business cares; he has tried to do too 
much; he inherited that tendency. They never 
say, He was so careless or foolish or foolhardy in 
his eating. The family physician does not dare to 
prescribe diet, he knows it is a too unwelcome sub- 
ject; he can only send the man away from part of 
the temptation on a sea-voyage. 

There are none so blind as those who wilfully shut 
their eyes, and in all food matters we are wilfully 
blind. The day of reckoning will come, however. 

In the interest of the race, of its mental as well as 
physical development, there is no subject which 
should occupy the attention of educators comparable 
with that of food and its influence on human prog- 
ress. 

If, as in some other things, there were an alterna- 
tive, it would not so much matter, but nature has not 
provided a substitute for food. Nothing can take 
its place. It is a condition of life, and right food is 
an essential of efficient living. 

This being an indisputable fact, it seems strange 



FOOD A NECESSITY 1 I 

that all discussion of it is tabooed in educational cir- 
cles; and still more strange is it that teachers, of all 
persons, are the most careless and reckless in mat- 
ters of diet. The very people who would profit most 
by right habits of living seem most oblivious of the 
fundamental principles. 

It is therefore hopeless to expect to impress the 
pupils through the teachers, hence outside influence 
must be brought to bear on both. Naturally it 
should come through the parents, the mother chiefly, 
while the children are young, but the father who 
mingles with his fellows and sees more of life should 
watch for his share in the general training along 
progressive lines. 

It has become too much the fashion to allow 
children a greater range of electives in food than in 
studies, to set before them a bewildering variety 
and applaud rather than disapprove a whimsical 
choice. 

So much has been done in the way of popularizing 
knowledge that persons are not willing to do any 
thinking for themselves. If a new word appears in 
the daily paper, it must be explained by a synonym 
of easy comprehension. If a scientific fact is an- 
nounced, it must be couched in terms of every-day 
currency. 

Mental laziness has come to be a distinct charac- 
teristic of the mass of the people who have been 



12 THE COST OF FOOD 

taught facts or supposed facts without having had to 
think for themselves. Hence it happens that when 
the subject of food is broached and such terms as 
proteid, carbohydrates, and metaboHsm are used, a 
repellent, rebellious mood is felt sweeping over the 
audience. Indeed, it is often voiced in the request 
to use every-day language, to tell in plain terms what 
these things are. 

This is often impossible; at least it would mean oc- 
cupying time and space in definition so that none 
would be left for discussion. In the glossary, pages 
15T-4, will be found a vocabulary for the benefit of 
those who are willing to take the trouble to learn it. 

These few chapters do not form a compendium of 
knowledge. A wide acquaintance with generally ac- 
cepted 'facts and a certain groundwork of the funda- 
mental sciences, such as chemistry, physics, and 
physiology, is assumed to be the preparation of the 
student. If bacteriology, physiological chemistry, 
and theoretical chemistry are also in a measure in 
his possession, so much the better. No attempt is 
made to give a popular treatise upon a subject re- 
quiring so much concentration of attention and 
systematic study. Only a small section of a very 
large field is prepared for the seed which will be 
dropped into it from time to time from current scien- 
tific periodicals and reports. Some of the seeds will 
prove to be weeds, and will be pulled up and thrown 



FOOD A NECESSITY 1 3 

away, but the ground will be kept in condition to 
grow the good grain as fast as it is found. 

The scientific attitude of mind, namely, to suspend 
judgment while the little plant of knowledge is grow- 
ing, is important. Neither accept nor throw away 
an idea until it has proved itself a weed or a good food 
for further growth. The science of nutrition is still 
in its infancy. 

A study of food may be divided into three chief 
fines: 

1st. Food substances or stuffs and their office in 
the body; 

2d. Food materials in which the foodstuffs occur; 

3d. The relative cost of the right amount of the 
foodstuffs when derived from the various food ma- 
terials. 

The aim of the present study is the 3d, which is, 
however, influenced not only by the. kind of food, but 
by the preparation and combination to which it is 
subjected outside the body, and by the mental and 
physical condition of the body receiving the pre- 
pared food. Some future writer will be able to com- 
bine results of these three studies into a handbook 
which may be followed. Neither the cook nor the 
public is yet ready for this. 

If " food is that which builds up the body and 
furnishes energy for its activities," or if " food is 
that gum of foreign substances which taken within 



•14 THE COST OF FOOD 

the organism enables it to grow and perfect seed 
in the plant, to grow and manifest activity in the 
animal, to grow, to manifest activity, and to think 
thoughts new and old in man," it behooves us to 
learn something about these substances which the 
organism uses. Among other sources of informa- 
tion the reader will find the data he needs in Bulletin 
No. 28, U. S. Department Agriculture," and in "Food 
and Diet " by Hutchison. The bibliography on page 
155 furnishes other titles. 

These sources have been available only in recent 
years, so that it is not strange that middle-aged 
housewives are not familiar with the technical terms 
used. 

The younger women, however, should see to it that 
even the arithmetic of dietaries becomes full of mean- 
ing, and that a respect for the value of properly 
selected and prepared food should be inculcated with 
the children's other lessons. 

* Atvvater, W. O., and Woods, C. D. , Chemical Composition of 
American P'ood Materials. U. S. Office of Experiment Stations, Bulletin 
No. 28, latest edition. Washington : Government. 5 cents. 

Richards, E. II., The Dietary Computer. New York : John Wiley 
& Sons. $i.5o» net. 



II 



FOOD FOR THE INFANT 

" A legal enactment in France prohibits the giving of any form 
of solid food to infants under one year of age without the au- 
thority of a prescription from a qualified medical man."— Hogan. 

One way to determine what substances are food 
for mankind is to find out the composition of the 
natural foods. For instance, of milk, which is the 
universal food of the young mammal. This will pre- 
pare the way for the study of the food of other 
animals, both young and adult. 

TABLE I 



HUMAN MILK. Water, 

per cent 

200 Analyses 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

cow's MILK, 

800 Analyses, 

Minimum , 80.32 

Maximum 90.69 

Average 87.17 



81.09 
91.40 

87.41 



Nitrogenous 

Substances, 

per cent. 



.69 
4.70 
2.29 



2.07 
6.40 
3-55 



Fat. 
per cent. 


Sugar, 
per cent.! 

1 


1-43 
6.83 
3.78 


3-88 

8.34 
6.21 


1.67 
6.47 
3.69 


2. II 
6.12 
4.88 



Mineral 

Salts, 

per cent. 

. 12 

I .90 

•31 



•35 

I. 21 

•71 



We find milk to consist of 87 per cent water, that 
is, the substances which make up the other 13 per 
cent are diluted and are not in a concentrated form. 
We find four classes of substances: 



15 



l6 THE COST OF FOOD 

1st. Nitrogenous, or albumen, casein, etc.; 

2d. Fats — '' butter-fats," composed of many kinds 
of fatty acids and glycerine, some soluble and vola- 
tile, others not — the so-called fixed fatty acids; 

3d. Sugar — milk-sugar, one of the many sugars 
known in nature; 

4th. Mineral salts, such as calcium phosphate 
and sodium and potassium chlorides and certain 
gaseous elements. 

The first and fourth classes exist for the most part 
in combination with each other; the second in sus- 
pension — a so-called emulsion ; the third probably in 
simple solution. 

Since the young animal can live, and grow well to- 
ward maturity on milk alone, it is evident that, with 
the exception of air, here are all the elements of 
animal nutrition. If we examine any animal organism 
— fish, worm, insect, or the human body, we find the 
same substances, and none which cannot come under 
these general heads. Therefore we may assume that 
the thousand materials used as food must contain 
these same substances in varying proportion. 

The tables of food composition are therefore 
made out in terms of these classes. Four words to 
learn the meaning of, and yet hundreds of intelligent 
persons turn away from any book on food where 
these words meet the eye! Truly we are a lazy 
people when it comes to intelligent effort. 



FOOD FOR THE INFANT 1/ 

To make it as easy as possible, we will begin with 
the food of the infant. At birth the child weighs, on 
the average, 6.5 lbs. (girl), 7.3 (boy). Its first effort 
is to breathe in the air that gives the needful oxygen 
for the transformation of the food it next cries for. 
Upon this food (of which it takes one-seventh its 
weight daily) and inhaled air it gains an ounce a day 
in weight and finds energy for constant activity. As 
activity increases the gain in weight lessens, and one 
half ounce per day is a fair average. At the end of 
the first year thirteen or more pounds have been 
added. At maturity the muscle increase has been 
50-fold, that of the skeleton 25-fold, that of the total 
body weight 18-fold. The composition of the body 
now, compared with that at birth, is: 

RELATIVE BODY COMPOSITION 

At Birth. Grown Man. 

Skeleton 16 16 

Muscles 23 42 

Fatty tissue 14 10 

Other tissue 31 47 ' 

During this first year, the child has taken some- 
thing like 500 quarts (1,000 lbs.) of milk containing 
40 lbs. proteid, 40 lbs. fat, and 50 lbs. sugar, or 130 
lbs. of food, to give 13 lbs. in weight. This gives a 
little idea of the office of food in the body; of how 
much is used up in mere living, in motion, and how 
little goes to body tissue. This increase of actual 
substance is still further cut down by the fact that 
part of this weight is water, although not so great a 



1 8 THE COST OF FOOD 

proportion as is the case in later life, when bones 
and brain have practically ceased growing. 

There is little to add on the food of the infant, 
save that it is safest to 'keep to the natural diet for 
ihe first year as closely as possible. 

As the child grows, substitutes are found in other 
foods. Starch replaces part of the sugar; meat 
tissue, part of the casein; vegetable oils and animal 
fats, part of the milk-fat; while the mineral salts are 
found in all materials. 

In the second year some solid food is added, but 
the same relative composition must be kept. That 
is, the solid food must not be all proteid or all starch 
or all sugar. The proteid from animal sources may be 
given in the form of eggs, yolk preferred, chicken, 
fish, a very little mutton, and from vegetable sources 
in oat-meal and whole-wheat, or in some of the patent 
preparations which are what they seem, and in lentil 
or pea flour used for thickening broths. The starchy 
food may be of rice, potatoes, macaroni, the cereals 
carefully chosen, and rusks, pulled bread, or Zwie- 
back. 

Sugar is now almost universally advocated as food 
for young children, not as amusement between meals, 
but as part of the dietary and counted as such. A 
pound of candy yields as many heat-units or calories 
as a child of fourteen needs in its whole day. If, 
however, the child satisfies its appetite with this 



FOOD FOR THE INFANT 



19 



candy, it defrauds its body of the "building" ma- 
terial which the candy totally lacks, and of the fat 
which seems equally necessary. (See Hutchison, 
'* Butter z's. Jam.") Of the 10 oz. of carbohydrate 
which a child of fourteen requires, perhaps 4 oz. 
may be in the form of sugar. This is the quantity 
of milk-sugar which a child of three or four years 
would absorb ifSts diet were of rnilk exclusively. 
Cane-sugar is, however, more disturbing to the di- 
gestion and should, therefore, not be held as innocu- 
ous as milk-sugar. 

This allowable amount of 3 or 4 oz. should, how- 
ever, form part of regular meals or of a definite 
luncheon, as will be indicated in the discussion of the 
school luncheon. 

The following table, compiled by Ufifelman, will 
indicate the slow variation required in the child's 
food: 

TABLE II* 



Age. 

1 1/2 years.. . 

2 years. . . . . . 

3 years 

4 years 

5 years 

8 to 9 years. . 
12 to 13 years 
14 to 15 years. 



Proteid, 


Fat, 


Carbohy. 
drates. 
Grams. 


Grams. 


Grams. 


42.5 


35 


IOC 


45-5 


36 


1 10 j 


50 


38 


120 j 


53 


41-5 


135 


56 


43 


145 


60 


44 


150 


72 


47 


245 i 


79 


48 


270 i 



Calories. 



909.7 
972.4 
1050.4 
II56.8 
1224.0 
1270.0 
1736.8 
1877.3 



* Hutchison, p. 453. Schroeder, Archiv. fiir Hygiene, IV, 
39, 1886. 



20 



THE COST OF FOOD 



In the child's diet there is i part of proteid to 4.5 
of fat and carbohydrate. In that of the adult the 
ratio is i to 5.5 parts. 

In the child's diet there is i part of fat to 3.7 car- 
bohydrate. In that of the adult i to 1.6 parts. 

The child is more active in proportion to his 
weight than the adult, and therefore needs a larger 
proportion of calories in his food. His body also 
presents nearly three times, the surface in proportion 
to his weight, and therefore loses more heat, an ad- 
ditional reason for more heat-producing food. 

TABLE III 

A GENERAL STATEMENT 



Age, 
Years. 


Body 

Weight, 

Kilos. 


Total 

Food, 

Grams. 


Dry 

Substance, 

Grams. 


Nitrogen- 
ous, 
Grams. 


Fat, 
Grams. 


Carbohv- 
drates.' 
Grams. 


Girl, 4 

Boy, 6 

Girl, 9 

Q- XA 


13.3 
18.0 
22.7 


1203 
1560 
1660 


197 

311 

328 


44.8 
63.7 
61.3 
78.0 


41.5 
45-8 
47.0 
43-3 


102. 7 

197-3 
207.7 
281 .0 













As an illustration may be taken the food of a child 
of four or six. 

The following list (Table VI) should furnish variety 
enough, since great care must be taken to form 
habits of eating plain food, without condiments or 
stimulants, in order that full bodily and mental de- 
velopment may take place. Less variety is needed 



FOOD FOR THE INFANT 21 

by a well-trained child than by an adult. An indis- 
cretion in diet in these formative years may result 
in atrophy of some cells, wrong tendencies in others, 
and permanent nerve displacements, just as a pin- 
prick in the undeveloped bud will leave a scar which 
shows during the life of the tree. The child has not 
the reserve store of the adult and cannot go with- 
out food safely for any considerable time. The 
digestive organs are excessively delicate, easily irri- 
tated; therefore hard, coarse, dry foods are pro- 
hibited; also spices, condiments, and all nerve-irri- 
tants. 

It is also true that a taste for highly spiced food, 
for sweets, etc., may be fixed by a very Httle unwise 
indulgence, especially since habit rather than instinct 
guides civilized man in the choice of food. It is the 
first taste that costs: no sane mother would give her 
child cofTee or wine ; why should she yield to its curi- 
osity and give spiced foods and rich gravies? If the 
child is not taught to be whimsical and fickle in ap- 
petite, he will rarely make any remarks about his 
food. Alas, he usually hears too much for and against 
food, and as the parrot's vocabulary betrays his ship 
companions, so the child's fancies betray his parents 
and nurse. 

It is, on all accounts, best to adhere to a simple, 
well cooked, nutritious diet until the child is fifteen 
or sixteen; then the digestive organs will have 



22 THE COST OF FOOD 

gained their full strength, and for the next twenty 
years may be trusted with anything in reason. 

As has been said, milk is the universal food of the 
young mammal, furnishing that which is needed for 
growth and repair, for muscle, bone, and tissue, and 
also, in its sugar, the heat form of energy used in 
keeping the body warm and active. 

The young chick in the egg finds as its food that 
which is needed for all but activity. Since its op- 
portunity for motion is very slight, it simply grows, 
develops, makes blood and bone and muscle, so that 
the chick steps forth from its shell a perfect animal 
strong enough to stand, with wit enough to eat, but 
requiring at once corn-meal to furnish the starch 
for the activity which the young mammal derives 
from the sugar in the milk. 

Since the egg is so nearly a complete food, and 
so easily transformed into animal tissues, it is well 
to study its composition and to compare it with milk, 
meat, and fish: 

TABLE IV 

Water, Nitrog. Fat, Food Value 

Foodstu" . percent. Substances percent, per lb. in CaL 

per cent. 

Whole egg, without shell 73.7 12.5 12. i 742 

Yolk of egg 51.0 16.1 31.4 (Konig) 1623 

White" 85.5 12.9 .25 250 

Young chicken, broiler .. 43.7 12.8 1.4 295 

Fowl 47-1 13-7 12.3 775 

Beef, round, lean 40.9 19.5 7-3 ^7° 

Dressed halibut 61.9 15.3 4-4 47° 

salmon 48.1 i3-8 8.1 60Q 



FOOD FOR THK INFANT 23 

The growing chick, before activity begins, needs 
74% water, 12% N., 10% fat, and in addition 1% 
mineral salts. One egg-shell equals 40 grams. It is 
possible that part of this is used as needed. Oxygen 
for the metabolism of the tgg contents must come in 
through the shell. It is clear that the ^gg contents 
are not sufficient for the activity of the chick, since 
its appetite at once develops for cornmeal as well 
as for grubs; neither are they dilute enough to fur- 
nish water for evaporation and for that general tissue 
exchange which motion of body increases. Water, 
being the heat regulator of the body, is constantly 
being lost and hence must be supplied in the food 
in greater amount than is needed for mere exist- 
ence. ^^'e learn, then, that eggs are not sufficient 
in themselves for the active child. They contain too 
little water, too much nitrogen, but we also learn 
that they must contain the right proportion for 
body building, and therefore are a valuable food, es- 
pecially when there is a demand for just this kind 
of sustenance, as after fever; in cases of nerve ex- 
haustion, as well as for growing children. As in 
milk, the substances found in eggs do not exist by 
themselves, but in combination one with another or 
several in a more or less loose connection. Thus the 
sulphur and phosphorus seem to be in close asso- 
ciation with the fat in the form of lecithin. It is 
barely possible that this group may be utihzed with 



24 THE COS'l" OF FOOD 

less expenditure of energy than some other forms of 
matter for nerve building and nutrition; only a 
limited amount can be assimilated in a given time, 
therefore it is not to be supposed that a diet of eggs 
can be used to force brain development, certainly not 
beyond a very small limit. 

The foods nearest in composition to eggs are the 
various meats and fish, as is to be expected from the 
fact that flesh is formed in the egg from its contents. 
Meats, however, dififer in that they contain the prod- 
ucts of the decomposition due to muscular activity, 
to breaking down of tissue, such as urea, and they 
also are more or less rich in the tough collagen or 
connective tissue which holds the bundles of cells in 
place and serves as ropes or straps to join muscle to 
the framework of bone. The fat of muscle, both in- 
terstitial and enveloping, lacks the high mineral con- 
tent of the egg-fat combination, the latter occurring 
only in marrow and brain to any degree, so that fat of 
meat is not a perfect substitute for fat of egg. 

The various cuts of meat dififer largely in regard 
to the amount of fat, both interstitial and envelop- 
ing. 

Fish, as a rule, has less fat, and in products of de- 
composition ranges with white meats, such as breast 
of chicken, and veal. 

It is evident that lean meat does not burnish suffi- 
cient heat-units for normal human life, that verv fat 



FOOD FOR THE INFANT 2$ 

meat must be eaten to bring up the calories. It is 
well known that the child, as a rule, has a distaste for 
fat, therefore a leaf may be taken from the diet-book 
of the chick and starchy foods be added as soon as 
milk ceases to be the sole food. This must not be 
done until the child's digestive juices are able to 
transform starch into an assimilable sugar, which is 
at about the ninth month. Even then a limited 
amount only is given until the second year. 

Since the mucous membrane of the child is of a 
most delicate and easily irritated texture, it is un- 
wise to give acids or foods which produce acids on 
decomposition, or to give food which has woody 
fibre or any indigestible substance until greater vigor 
of digestion appears. Therefore the oatmeal is bet- 
ter strained, " oatmeal jelly," and the wheat and bar- 
ley pearled. If abundance of milk and eggs are given, 
white bread and rice may serve, but where the cost 
of the former is too great, the necessary mineral salts 
must come from whole wheat, oatmeal, peameal 
soup, strained. 

It is unsafe to use any cereal food which happens 
to be put upon the market with the idea that all 
cereals are aUke digestible. Experiments on chil- 
dren are costly. 

The reader is advised to study the diet of the infant 
and young child as to quantity and quality, to be- 
come perfectly familiar with the composition of these 



26 THE COST OF FOOD 

twenty foods, Table VI, and with the cunihination of 
them into suitable menus. 

The child's food still contains much water, that in 
the form of ripe fruits, soups, and milk is better than 
too much from the city tap — but if bread and butter 
is the staple, then much water should be allowed. It 
will be easy to make up a day's menu from Table VI 
for a child of four to six, for instance : 

TABLE V 

ONE day's menu 

T, . , Dry Nitrogen- Carbohy- 

Required. ?^°^^' Substance °"/„J"^>^^^, drates. 

Grams. q,^^^ stances, Grams. G^ams. 
Grams. 

1 1/2 pint milk 679 88.8 22.3 27.1 33.9 

1/2 pound bread 226 147 20.3 3.6 119. 8 

1/8 pound dry rice (1/2 lb. 

cooked) 56.6 49 4.5 .1 44.7 

4 ounces orange 114 41.7 .1 .1 9.7 

2 ounces egg 56.6 19.5 7.3 5.3 

1/2 ounce butter 14 12 .1 11. 9 

At average prices, this would cost 12 to 13 cents. 

If the reader wishes to become familiar with dietary 
work, this sort of problem, worked out in a variety 
of costs for two different ages with the substances 
given in Table VI, will serve as an excellent introduc- 
tion. For books on children's diet, from the medical 
standpoint, consult the bibliography. For a diet of 
low cost, see pages 61 to 65, " Children in Institu- 
tions." On soup instead of milk, see page 63. 

The young mother is advised to keep closely to the 
simple diet of very few foods and, as was said earlier, 



FOOD FOR THE INFANT 



27 



TABLE VI 

APPROXIMATE COMPOSITION OF SOME COMMON FOOD MATERIALS 



V a 



Apples 25 

Barley (pearled) ; 

Beef (round) ^. . I 88 

Beef juice (as puV-| 

chased) 

Beef juice (as it should 

be) 

Bouillon andconsomme. j 

Bread (white) 

Butter j 

Cheese (Americani 

pale) 

Chicken 34-8 

Cream I 

Cream soup | 

Eggs (whole) j 10.5 

Eggs (yolk^ 

Lentil meal 

Milk (whole) 

Mutton (leg) 

Oatmeal 

Peas (green) 

Potatoes 

Prunes (dried) 

Raisins " 

Rice 

Wheatlet 



rto. 



61.5 
10.8 
64.2 

93 

88 
96 

35.4 
II 

31.6 

48.5 

74 

87.4 

66 

49-5 



.•HB 

On 



1.8 
42.2 
86 



31 
II 

43- 
4- 

130- 
67 
84 
23. 
59- 
73- 



10.73 115 
87 
51- 
7- 
74- 
62 

19 

14 

9 

10. 



5 
4 
5 
5 
j 14.9 

I 70 

1 3-2 
8 

8.6 
II-3 
43 
55.9 



2.7 



44 

385 

164.2 

5 
20.4 

14.5 
43-1 
151 

8.7 
18. 1 
67.5 
33 

2.2 

.4 



21.3 
2-3 
6.3 






56 

4-5 |352 
32.2 



1.8 
239-5 



2 
25 



260 
22.7 

308 

76.5 

69 
2S2 
338.7 
363 
340 



U 



255 

1660 

650 

"5 

127 

55 
•1205 
3504 

2060 

325 

910 

285 

645 

1705 

1620 

325 

905 

i860 

465 

325 

1 189 

1635 

1685 

1685 



not to give " tastes " of other foods; on no account 
to permit the tasting- of tea or coffee. If eggs and 
cream seem to make the little one's diet as costly as 
that of the grown-ups, remember that these few 
years determine the child's future. That an inflamed 
stomach may mean years of invalidism; that an irri- 



28 THE COST OF FOOD 

tated brain may mean insanity later. The money 
spent now can well be saved later. Above all remem- 
ber that a wrong diet means irritability, bad temper, 
and general uncomfortableness. The healthy ani- 
mal is a happy animal. As has been indicated above, 
12 to 15 cents per day, where food has to be pur- 
chased at city rates, gives a fair average for a child 
of four to six. Where only half that can be spent, 
there is always danger that some organ will suffer. 
Well-cooked cornmeal and whole-wheat bread made 
with fat must then take the place of eggs, rice, but- 
ter, and cream.* . . 



* For special diets consult Dr. Clement Dukes' " School 
Diet." 



Ill 



FOOD FOR THE CHILD AT SCHOOL 

"Old men bear want of food best; then those that are adults; 
youths bear it leasts most especially children, and of them the 
most lively are the least capable of enduring it." 

— Hippocrates. 

The child is now of school age and goes from the 
business of eating and sleeping and telling to his 
companions the wonderful things he has found out, 
to that of studying things out of books and reciting 
to others dull facts just as he has learned them. 
He passes from the freedom of play to the restraint 
of the desk and chair, from constant out-door 
life (if he is a fortunate child) to the bad air of 
the school-room. He is in great danger of injury 
from these causes even if his food is adapted as per- 
fectly as science permits. But when that is wrong 
there is little wonder that the pace kills. 

At twelve he needs only a little more fat in his food 
than at six. Whether this is because the growth of 
brain and marrow is now very slow, or whether the 
body is best served with the fat made from the car- 
bohydrates, or whether the presence of extra fat in- 
terferes with some process — it is a fact, that less fat is 

29 



30 THE COST OF FOOD 

present in available form in the tissues, and there- 
fore there is less reserve force available. 

The grown man carries several days' rations iii his 
tissues in the form of fat so that it is no matter of 
consequence whether he gets full meals on a given 
day. No organ will suffer by even three or four days' 
abstinence if the man is in normal condition, but no 
young animal (note the absence of visible or stored 
fat in veal, in chicken broilers) carries much reserve, 
hence the child who goes to school without break- 
fast becomes exhausted before noon and some brain- 
cell may suffer by atrophy, or, in order to save the 
precious legacy, nutrition may be abstracted from 
muscles already formed and a stunted growth result. 

The food of the child at school is then second in 
importance only to that of the infant, and the parent 
who neglects this part of his child's bringing up is 
culpable and his sin will surely be visited upon the 
third and fourth generations. 

This is not the place to go into an exhaustive dis- 
cussion of the food given at home, for if the general 
family table is well cared for there will be less danger 
to the youth of high-school age from what he finds on 
it than there is in the noon luncheon. 

At this period of change and unrest, flavor begins 
to count for more, and greater pains should be taken 
to use such natural foods as contain possibilities of 
flavor. Asparagus, lettuce, celery, etc., owe their 



FOOD FOR THE CHILD AT SCHOOL 3 1 

popularity and efficiency not to their food values 
reckoned in calories or proteids but to the stimulus 
to the nerves given by the very small quantity of 
sapid principles. Used with discretion, these are ad- 
juncts worth the excessive price. For a pound of 
food value in this form $1.00 to $2.00 is often paid in- 
stead of I to 2 cents for a pound of wheat or corn. 
The cost of many of these things is now excessive be- 
cause their real value is not appreciated, and efforts 
are not directed to producing and preparing them. 

The child at school needs to have temptation 
to indiscriminate eating removed, because modern 
school life is exciting at best and the food should be 
such as to quiet rather than excite. The lack of fresh 
air should be considered in planning the food of the 
child in the school-room, for such confinement is at 
best unnatural. What modification of diet may be 
made to meet such conditions is not yet known. It 
may be found that it is in response to this artificial life 
that sugar is demanded by the modern child. Certain 
it is that sugar may be allowed if it is taken so as 
not to interfere with the appetite for more substan- 
tial food. There is a real reason why sugar and the 
predigested foods should not form a large propor- 
tion of the diet. All food, to be of use, must be in a 
condition to pass through the membranes of the 
digestive tract. Soluble substances are liable to pass 
through too rapidly and in too great quantity for the 



32 THE COST OF FOOD 

immediate need of the tissues, and thus to clog the 
capillaries or irritate the nerves, or give a sense of 
sufficiency before enough is really eaten; soon there 
is a craving for more, and at odd times. 

It is better where a considerable time elapses be- 
tween meals to have a portion of the meal less quickly 
diffusible. Therefore, supply starch rather than 
sugar, bread rather than all meat, but not too diffi- 
cultly digested food as fried eggs and rich gravies — 
which require not only time but energy to make 
available. 

Child-study does not yet include a study of the in- 
fluence of food upon the mental as well as physical 
growth, it nevertheless may have more definite and 
direct bearing than anything else. Over-stimulation 
is impossible to the child who is properly fed; nerv- 
ous troubles are directly traceable to bad digestive 
conditions. It is only in rare cases that, by accident 
or malformation, nerves are so crowded or twisted 
that the currents *' short circuit." Most irritation 
arises from inflamed tissues due to products of in- 
digestion. These products are carried by the blood 
to every part of the body ; and that which is most 
sensitive is most afTected. The child at school needs 
a quahty of food which will give a rich blood carry- 
ing only those substances which the tissues can use, 
not loaded with that which must be rejected. In the 
efltort to reject, a strain is put upon some part which 



FOOD FOR THE CHILD AT SCHOOL 33 

becoming weakened, soon shows by inflammatipn or 
by torpidity that it is not doing its work. 

If there is any place where penury is dangerous 
it is in the food of children at school, and especially in 
the noon lunch of high-school children. The pre- 
vailing American habit of intemperance in eating 
leads to such indulgence by the children that ten 
cents a day must be spent at a lunch-counter to pro- 
cure clean, well-prepared food which will satisfy the 
average pupil. Just as good food could be served 
for five cents, and perfectly sufficient might be given 
for three. This extravagance works injury to the 
most deserving pupils — those from families where 
even twenty-five cents a week for each child is not 
to be thought of aside from the family budget. And 
so because of this gross feeding of the class which 
puts pleasure of the senses before future well-being, 
the child of less fortunate parents, who probably has 
a better brain, must struggle through his school years 
without the warm luncheon which would be so bene- 
ficial. Fortunately he sometimes has far better di- 
gestion and is able to secure from unpromising ma- 
terials a sufficiency of nutrition. 

The necessity of attention to the food of school 
children is becoming recognized, and school authori- 
ties are alive to the wisdom of providing fuel for the 
fires they are kindling. 

The school luncheon for high schools or any 



34 THE COST OF FOOD 

schools where children are prevented from going to 
their homes for a 12-0'clock meal may cost, as we 
have said, from five to ten cents, well served at a 
counter with the least paraphernalia. If it is to serve 
in place of the noon meal, as in manual training 
schools where the session lasts until 3 o'clock, then 
the pupils should be served at tables with due regard 
to neatness and order, and with ample time for two 
courses. The expense of service may be lessened 
by the pupils buying the served order at a counter 
and taking it themselves to the table which has been 
cleaned by a maid. Rightly managed this is success- 
ful and reduces the final cost. 

This kind of luncheon will cost from ten to twenty 
cents. It need not cost more than eight to twelve, 
but taking the average American youth as he is, the 
higher cost only will satisfy, and if means allowed he 
would spend more. 

A few words as to the character of this luncheon 
may not be amiss: It must be borne in mind that 
the child is going back to study, in not too good 
air — often in very bad air. Therefore not too much 
blood (energy) must be taken from the brain, and yet 
circulation is to be promoted so that fresh blood may 
be brought to the brain-cells before they are too ex- 
hausted to benefit by it. The mental forces are to 
be gently stimulated and not rendered torpid, as is 
the case when the child becomes sleepy. 



FOOD FOR THE CHILD AT SCHOOL 35 

For quickening the circulation, fluid and warm 
fluid is best in many cases, — such as hot milk, soup 
(if not greasy) and cocoa. Cold fluid, as milk or 
fruit, is often quite as acceptable. 

Vigorous children can take the fluid in the form of 
water and the solid in the form of bread and butter 
with or without meat, or in the form of crackers,- 
which appeal to dliildren and, if well masticated, seem 
to agree with them even better than the excessively 
yeasty bread so common. American children will 
not be satisfied without some sweet, and, right or 
wrong, they will have it. It may be an effort to off- 
set the unnatural conditions to which they are sub- 
jected, to furnish a quick-burning fuel, one which can 
be used at once and leave no ash behind, one which 
while giving less energy also requires less energy to 
convert into useful material. In any case, the liking 
for sweets must be heeded and that form given which 
will serve the best; namely, fruit-sugars as far as 
possible and milk-sugar as soon as it can be bought 
for ten cents per pound. All dried fruits — dates, figs, 
raisins — are most excellent food and should be freely 
furnished. Gingerbread and cookies may be used 
for variety, but the most attractive viand on account 
of flavor, consistency, texture, and temperature will 
be ice-cream. If properly made, of the best ma- 
terials and with absolute cleanHness, this is a valu- 
able food, high in actual value per pound. In the 



36 THE COST OF FOOD 

warm days of spring and fall it is most refreshing, and 
the quantity which can be served for ten cents 
will not appreciably lower the temperature of the 
child's body, especially since he is apt to make the 
pleasure last as long as possible. 

If luncheon is served at table, well-made hash, 
creamed fish or chicken, well-made stews, eggs, cold 
meats, baked apples, or light puddings may be 
added. For a noon luncheon when brain-work is 
demanded after it, pastry, doughnuts, custards, etc., 
should be prohibited. They demand too much ex- 
penditure of energy by the body. 

In winter a nut-cake may not be too hearty for 
the robust ones who demand strong food, even frost- 
ing on the cake may be permissible, if these rich and 
sweet things are not eaten at all at intervening 
times so as to affect the appetite. This precious 
remnant pf the instincts of primitive man is worthy 
of care. A distinguished physician has said, *' If life 
in other respects is normal, this appetite is likely to 
lead in the right direction." But alas! who leads a 
normal life? Certainly not the city child for whom 
we find ourselves constantly planning. Young peo- 
ple should not crave the constant stimulant of variety 
and condiment. Something is wrong with their 
bringing-up when they do. 



IV 

FOOD FOR THE ACTIVE YOUTH 

" Food is the only source of human power to work or to 
think." 

For the type of young person is usually chosen 
the soldier who may be fed on the compact, hearty 
food of camp life, provided it is savorily prepared, 
without so many kinds of dishes at one meal as the 
city clerk requires, because his sauces are out-of-door 
life, fresh air, something to do all the time. That 
is, the soldier in the field, the youth in the logging- 
camp or on the farm, keeps up the excess of activity 
begun in childhood, only now it is applied to useful 
and commercial ends. So long as activity is kept 
up, food is demanded in greater quantity than at any 
other time. The purveyor is usually right when he 
charges for a young teamster double the board which 
is ample for a seamstress. However, the cost is not 
necessarily greater for a double amount of food since 
it may be of less expensive materials than the smaller 
quantity of more costly food demanded by the whim- 
sical appetite of the sedentary person. 

37 



38 THE COST OF FOOD 

When the youth is at college mstead of at military 
service, how shall his food be graded? His life is one 
of less activity — unless he is on an athletic team — of 
more mental exertion, which we believe requires an 
ample supply of food although the mechanics of 
thought seem to be more economically carried on 
than the mechanics of motion. In both cases ease of 
work depends largely upon accustomedness to the 
kind of effort. 

In a six-day bicycle race the winner used 4770 
calories per day, while the contestant who failed 
on the fourth day used 4610 and the second in the 
race 6095, which increase was evidently not put to 
the best use in developing energy. 

In vigorous youth a taste for all natural foods 
should be cultivated and a power of digestion de- 
veloped which shall stand him in good stead in after 
life. It is his one chance, and woe to parent or 
teacher who destroys it and inflicts life-long misery. 
This is no vision of a disordered brain. Take a 
census of any thousand students in any State in the 
Union and set apart those whose appetite and diges- 
tion are normal, who could live on whatever was set 
before them, and how small a company you would" 
find! — hardly enough for one table. 

Most instructive lessons may be learned from the 
training table of football teams, boat crews, and 



FOOD FOR THE ACIIVF VOUril 39 

soldiers on the march as to diet for excessive physi- 
cal work. We find that the following is a fair state- 
ment of the results at hand: 

?^°"''' Gfa^l;. "?-'-'■ Calorics. 
Grams. Grams, q,^^^ 

Average of 7 boat crews... 155 177 440 4085 

One football team 181 292 577 5740 

United States Army 85 2S0 500 4944 

The form in which the food is served is to be that 
to which the men are accustomed, so that they will 
eat it. The soldier takes his ration of bread, bacon, 
beans, or stewed meat and coffee without " frills " of 
strawberry shortcake, ice-cream or coffee-jelly which 
a Harvard boat crew requires. The former costs 15 
to 20 cents, the latter 80 cents to $1.00 per day. 

It will be noticed that the increase is in all the fac- 
tors, not in any one, which fact adds weight to 
the beHef that food is to be taken as a whole, not in 
separate parts; that the body can select that which 
it needs and reject the rest. The increased labor of 
the athlete does not, however, always bring lasting 
strength, for some one organ is very apt to be over- 
strained. Few men live to a comfortable old age 
who have over-exerted themselves in youth. 

It is not necessary to quote dietaries in full for this 
active life. The various army rations show what 
may be done, and the U. S. Government bulletins 



40 THE COST OF FOOD 

give many illustrations. As a transition from this 
chapter to the next there is considered the cost of 
food for the large number in the middle West who are 
workers part of the year and students the rest. It is 
not possible for them to have the delicate flavors and 
great variety which are usually associated with a 
student's table in the East. 

The provider who cannot go above lo cents per 
pound for food value contents himself with cabbage 
and onions, which serve the same purpose as as- 
paragus and lettuce and, it would seem, equally 
well. 

Observation of the habits of young people in 
America, east and west, north and south, leads the 
author to the conclusion that the use of sapid vege- 
tables in a suitable way is very much neglected, that 
it is most unfortunate when *' I do not hke turnip," 
'' I do not eat squash," are heard at every tabl^, that 
college students avoid green vegetables unless they 
are disguised in soups or sauces. 

There are many good ends served by these de- 
spised roots and leaves, not the least of which is 
'' stuffing," since the twentieth-century digestive tube 
is in danger of growing up — contracting to a string — 
for lack of distending material. The absorbing sur- 
face is distributed over many times in extent the 
nominal area of the tube, and if this surface is 
crowded together instead of distended by fluid and 



FOOD FOR THE ACTIVE YOUTH 4^ 

fibrous mass, absorption cannot so readily take place, 
even if inflammation does not result. 

It has been said that fear of indigestible food is the 
bugbear of modern life. We might say that the 
word itself is one of the most misused terms. Most 
persons consider any substance which requires a 
long time to go into solution indigestible. Thus 
smoked meats and legumes remain four or five hours 
in the stomach undergoing a slow macerating proc- 
ess, and yet may be as completely utilized by the body 
in the end as sweetbreads and rusks, which leave the 
stomach in two or three hours. 

There is far less danger from cellulose-bearing 
vegetables than from fat-bearing sauces. Thudichum 
says, *' Cooks should avoid introducing concealed 
forms of fat into dishes needlessly, as they may preju- 
dice physiological nutrition." 

Several educational institutions in the middle 
West are known to feed their students on good and 
sufficient food even for brain-workers at sums vary- 
ing from 14 to 15 cents per day per person. The 
students are for the most part country bred and they 
come to the school for a serious purpose, willing to 
endure hardship if need be for the sake of an end 
in itself, but only a means to the end they seek. One 
such institution furnished the author with the fol- 
lowing bill of fare which will serve as a sample. 
Vegetables are raised either on the college farm or 



42 THE COST OF FOOD 

are purchased cheaply, which is a large part of the 
secret both of the health of the students and the in- 
expensiveness of the dietary: 



APPROXIMATE BILL OF FARE 

Mondays and Thursdays 

Breakfast: Warm drink; cereals, oatmeal and Gra- 
ham gems; vegetables and meat (cod- 
fish balls), bread and butter. 

Dinner: Vegetables, mashed potatoes; meat, beef- 
steak with gravy; side dish, peas or 
Lima beans; dessert, apple pie, hot corn 
bread. 

Supper: Bread and butter, Graham bread and 
sirup, sauce (peaches), doughnuts (hot). 

Tuesdays and Fridays 

Breakfast: Warm drink; cereals, oatmeal and Gra- 
ham gems ; vegetables and meat ; hash ; 
bread and butter. 

Dinner: Soup; vegetables, baked potatoes; meat, 
bacon, mutton or veal with gravy; des- 
sert, macaroni or canned tomatoes, 
hot corn bread. 

Supper : Biscuit and butter, white and Graham 
bread, sirup, sauce (apple), cheese. 



FOOD FOR THF ArTTVE YOUTH 



43 



Wednesdays and Saturdays 
Breakfast: Warm drink; cereals, oatmeal and Gra- 
ham gems; vegetables and meat; Irish 
stew; bread and butter. 
Dinner: Vegetables, beans or peas; meat, pork 
(with the vegetables); side dish, tur- 
nips, greens or cabbage; dessert, pud- 
ding or tarts, Boston brown bread and 
sirup. 
Supper: Cold beans or peas, bread and butter, 
Graham bread, sauce (berries), plain 
cake. 



Sundays 
Breakfast: Warm drink; cereals, fried mush and 

sirup (or eggs); vegetables, potatoes; 

meat, fish, gravy; bread and butter. 
Dinner: Vegetables, potatoes; meat, roast meat 

and gravy; side dish, according to 

season; dessert, according to season; 

hot corn bread. 
Supper: Bread and butter, Graham bread, plain 

cake, sauce, cheese. 
Accounts. — Endeavor to use as much as 4} lbs. 
flour, I lb. corn, i lb. oats, | lb. beans or peas, ^ lb. 
skim-milk cheese, and 1-5 lb. codfish per person, per 
week. Use as much more of these articles as you 
can make acceptable. 



44 THE COST OF l<OOD 

Endeavor not to exceed 2^ lbs. potatoes, i lb. 
butter, I lb. pork, 2^ lbs. beef, i lb. sugar, 2 eggs 
per person, per week. 

Side dishes like peas and Lima beans may be served 
without extra plates or saucers. 

Sirup once a day. 

Several other schools are known to the writer 
where a similar severe restraint is put upon mere ap- 
petite for the vSake of gaining an education, and hence 
the confidence with which the assertion on page 41 
is made. 

There is no intention of recommending so Hmited 
a dietary in every case, but it may be of advantage in 
certain cases to know what is possible without injury 
to health. A strong appetite is a great safeguard 
against the dangers arising from intermittent sup- 
plies, and is a chief factor in the energy of the pioneer. 






FOOD FOR THE YOUTH AT COLLEGE AND FOR THE 
BRAIN-WORKER 

" The digestibility of a food is of far greater concern to a 
brain-worker than its chemical composition. "^Hutchison. 

While it is true that food must be considered as 
a whole and not separated into constituents for one 
organ over another, yet there are certain broad gen- 
eraHzations derived from ages of experience and 
years of scientific observation v^hich should serve as 
guides to our limited knowledge in diet. 

The horse, when called upon to do heavy draught 
work, which requires steady pulHng under direction, 
is apt to be fed with corn and hay; while the spirited 
roadster or hunter, which is called upon to have his 
wits about him and to use reserve force suddenly, has 
oats with little hay and corn. 

The man in a logging-camp at hard work m the 
open air at a low temperature finds pork, beans, and 
pan bread or biscuit none too satisfying and sustain- 
ing, while the student sitting in an over-heated room 
with only a short walk three times a day, often at a 
slow pace, well mufifled up, would be unable to digest 

45 



46 THE COST OF FOOD 

a quarter of the lumberman's diet, and finds himself 
clearer of brain with eggs, toast, and cotYee for 
breakfast, and chicken and rice for dinner. 

The obvious lesson to be learned is that muscular 
exercise, while it uses proteid and fat, uses by prefer- 
ence more carbohydrate when it is available than 
mental exercise appears to demand. It is true that 
the body needs to have muscular exercise in order 
to keep its charge — the brain — active, but above 
that, it does seem as if the brain requires more fat 
and nitrogen in proportion. The system must, as 
was said, be kept up in good condition and then — 
so economical is the body — a very little excess 
of '' brain food " supplies the need; but it is a waste 
to manufacture it out of substances from which it is 
obtained only at the expense of many by-products, 
or at the expense of much digestive force. 

Above all else, the brain-worker needs a " clear 
head " that is one in good working condition, this 
demands blood that is fluid enough to circulate freely, 
rich enough in oxygen to keep all the cells bathed in 
it at their maximum vitality, with dissolved nutritive 
substances suf^cient for the needs of repair and 
nourishment. There must be absent, moreover, all 
traces of imperfect decomposition in the circulating 
fluid which will tend to irritate, inflame, or clog the 
minute blood vessels. 

The food may be anything which serves the proper 



FOOD FOR THE YOUTH AT COLLEGE 4/ 

purpose of food, provided it is properly prepared. 
The brain-worker is subjected to the great disad- 
vantage of bad air and lack of exercise. This leads 
to a loss of appetite, which is then stimulated by ad- 
ditions of strong flavors and by attractive serving. 
He seems, of all men, the last to see the true remedy 
for lack of strong appetite. If he must continue 
to work in clo§e air and with little activity, then 
take a lesson from the chick in the shell and let him 
eat a limited quantity of the most easily digested 
nitrogenous food, with the fat predominating over 
the carbohydrates and possibly in the latter, sugar 
taking precedence of starch. 

Therefore, while the food for the brain-worker 
should belong to the class easily digested, it should 
not be too concentrated or be predigested so that a 
large amount is at once available in the blood cur- 
rent. For in a short time there is a lack of available 
food which results in exhaustion and possibly in an 
overstepping of the elastic limit of recovery. 

The temptation is great to use, according to the 
directions, the various proprietary foods found in the 
market. The busy student does not seem to grasp 
the idea that food for his body and brain must pass 
through several transformations by means of the al- 
ready present cells before it can nourish new ones. 
He seems to consider it sufficient to pour in prepared 
milks, cereals, etc., just to fill the void. Mental 



48 THE COST OF FOOD 

energy he seems to hold as heaven given without 
the intervention of earth forces. 

To the man whose brain is his capital, the loss of 
an hour of thinking-power may mean thousands of 
dollars, yet in ninety-nine cases out of one hundred 
such a man will eat a meal which will inevitably 
weaken his power of thought and possibly change the 
future of a town or county. 

Unbelief — " no matter what a man eats " — is his 
bane, and when he breaks down at fifty it is said to 
be because he applied himself too closely — never be- 
cause he was foolish in his diet. 

The contrary picture is even more pitiable; a 
fine mind the prey of morbid fear lest the food 
should not suit. This condition often follows a break- 
down and is a result of previous neglect of the most 
obvious laws of health. It sometimes seems as if the 
more delicately organized the mind, the greater 
danger there is of fixing it upon its own condition. 
For this reason, if for no other, right habits should 
be acquired in youth before the danger of morbid 
mental processes is so great. For this reason, also, 
there should be restaurants where the business man 
and scholar will not be tempted to swallow food sure 
to use up mental energy. His home table should be 
laid with strength-giving and not strength-sapping 
viands, so that the evil may be reduced to a minimum. 

But all this care costs too much money and means 



FOOD FOR THE YOUTH AT COLLEGE 49 

too much time given to it! Not at all, if skill and 
judgment are used. Because the flavor of mush- 
rooms adds to the relish of the steak it is not neces- 
sary to buy a pound of fresh mushrooms at $1.00 the 
pound. Because, on a given occasion, an author has 
written a particularly brilliant paragraph after eat- 
ing a dish of sweetbreads there is no cause for fur- 
nishing a like dish every day. 

Students going up for examination, business men 
with decisions of large import to make, professional 
men with great interests at stake, all require the full, 
available amount of nervous energy, and the food 
taken for at least twenty-four hours before should be 
that which will give this energy. In each case it may 
be different. Eggs for one, bacon for another, rare 
beefsteak for a third, while a fourth may have such a 
bank -of health to draw upon that rolls and coffee with 
a banana or other fruit may put him in the best condi- 
tion. The usual American breakfast of all kinds 
of flesh, fish, or fowl with vegetables and hot bread, 
never fits a man for his best work. 

The author has expressed elsewhere, and more 
than once, the view that it is the imperative duty of 
the college and university to take in hand the matter 
of food for the future leaders of the nation, as an 
example of what education really stands for if for no 
other reason. 

If Dr. Johnson was right in his statement that 



so THE COST OF FOOD 

" women can spin very well, but they cannot make a 
good book on cookery," it behooves the university 
man to follow the example of the eighteenth-century 
savant and turn his attention to the transmutation 
of the dross of the market into the fine gold of the 
highest human endeavor. 

The unexpected is relished in food as in pleasure 
by those who are sensitive mentally to tastes and 
appearances. A surprise is welcome even if it is a 
simple affair. This means only foresight on the part 
of the provider, and care taken not to exhaust all 
combinations by too lavish a display. 

Happy is the man who is so well balanced that he 
takes his breakfast, as his newspaper, as a matter of 
course, and who is no more ruffled by the fraction of 
variation in the stiffness of his boiled egg than by 
the rumour of an Indian outbreak. Happy is he who 
sits down to the dinner provided for him without 
thought of what he must leave out, with a mind free 
for social pleasure, secure in the skill and knowledge 
of his cook. 

What, then, shall the brain-worker eat? A little 
of anything which his system can appropriate. His 
table need not be different from that of other men 
in appearance. A few things may well be omitted, 
as rich gravies, sauces, custards, patties, highly 
seasoned or fried entrees. Fresh bread and pastry 
should be rigorously banished, otherwise a liberal 



FOOD FOR THE YOUTH AT COLLEGE 5 I 

diet of a few well-cooked and well-seasoned dishes 
at any one meal should give mental vigor. 

Of great value to the man who lives much indoors 
are frequent outings of two or three days when all 
the cobwebs may be blown away and all the capil- 
laries flushed out by ocean breezes or mountain 
blasts. The stimulus of change, even if the food is 
only moderately good, is invaluable. Length of time 
is of less importance than completeness of* change. 

The joy of living — who would not have it? — and 
yet how few are willing to pay the price of it! A 
little thought, a little self-control, and then forget 
that there is such a thing as digestion. Thrice 
blessed the man whose body is such a perfect ma- 
chine that he is not conscious of it — only in such 
case is he a whole man. 

Just as a suggestion, we may say here that, for the 
family table, forty cents a day per person is ample; 
thirty cents should suffice, and with '' a $5,000 wife*," 
the brain-worker will thrive on twenty-five cents per 
day. (See pages 123 to 133.) 

*At the Columbian Exposition in 1893, a gentleman was heard 
to say, on leaving the " Workman's Cottage " with its family 
living on $500 a year, " It will take a $5,000 wife to do it." 



VI 



FOOD FOR THE TRAVELLER AND FOR THE PRO- 
FESSIONAL PERSON 

" For they can conquer who believe they can." 

The man who has an aim in Hfe is ready to forego 
certain indulgences which his companions with no 
thought of the future provide for themselves. He 
may refrain from smoking or from theatre-going, 
from the social affairs which would cost either money 
or time. He does this in order that he may be a great 
writer, philosopher, or that he may make a name for 
himself as an engineer or a business man. The one 
thing he does not take into account is the quality of 
the food he eats and its effect upon his prospects. 
He may consider its cost and deny himself a suffi- 
cient supply, but at the present day, as a rule, the 
danger is in the poor quality rather than in the 
quantity. For lack of knowledge of the fundamental 
position of the digestive system in the human econ- 
omy, the majority of persons subject it to a strain 
impossible for it to bear with safety, and then blame 
every other condition for the results. 

From the necessity of the case, the traveller is 

52 



FOOD FOR THE TRAVELLER 53 

surrounded with stimulating sights and sounds, 
whether agreeable or otherwise, giving the nervous 
system extra labor, and therefore making it a duty 
to supply it with nutrition. This stimulation has a 
very beneficial effect upon those who have fallen into 
self-pitying ways and whose digestion has been im- 
paired by too much coddling. But the temptation to 
eat, when one has nothing else to do, a variety of 
dishes badly cooked and indifferently served, is too 
great for many persons to resist. The lawyer who 
has to make a plea for his client, the engineer who 
has to examine a bridge, the pleasure-seeker with a 
long journey before him cannot afford to arrive at his 
destination with mental or physical power in the least 
impaired, in a depressed instead of a refreshed condi- 
tion. 

The most important factor of the many contribut- 
ing to the favorable or unfavorable result of a journey 
is the food taken on the way. " Just for once it will 
not matter." If tainted meat disguised with juicy 
sauces and French names is eaten, or if a jumble of 
canned lobster, re-frozen ice-cream and puff paste is 
hastily swallowed at a 20-minutes-for-lunch counter, 
a sick headache may warn the rash traveller or acute 
indigestion may follow. More probably the viands 
will not show their vicious character so actively, but 
will simply cause heaviness, loss of sleep, general irri- 
tation producing such a condition of the system 



54 THE COST OF FOOD 

that disease finds a weak defence at a time when it 
should be met with strong resistance. TravelHng 
has been made safe and comfortable beyond antici- 
pation in nearly all points; good air and proper food 
are still wanting. 

Since the body is not making any exertion, it 
needs not the foods which furnish bodily energy and 
repair waste, except in so far as the involuntary work 
goes on : there is required less than half the usual 
amount of food. If, in travel, a person can store up 
energy for the future strain as a person is fed in a 
hospital before an operation, it is safe to take more 
food, but this storing demands the right materials 
and that measure of good air which the railroad train 
does not give, although the steamer may. This is 
a difiference between the two modes of travel 
which seems not to have been considered by either 
caterer or eater. Less meat in made dishes, less 
pastry, less Worcestershire sauce, and more good 
fruit and well-cooked vegetables would conduce to 
the health of the railway traveller. Crusty rolls, 
fresh butter, cookies for those who like sweets — 
cake, even, is far safer for the occupant of a heated car 
than the usual bill of fare. The dining-car has pro- 
vided most carefully for good water; let it now pro- 
vide safe milk and delicate, digestible dishes. It is 
certain that it will do so whenever the public is wise 
enough to demand such a table. As it is, the traveller 



FOOD FOR TIIF. 1kA\KI.LER 55 

who wishes to reach his journey's end in prime condi- 
tion omits two-thirds the bill of fare. 

The professional man or w^oman — teacher, nurse, 
doctor — who has Httle outdoor exercise needs to 
ohserV'C a similar caution in every-day life, the bal- 
ance between health of mind and of body is very 
easily put out of order, and it should not be as difficult 
as it is to secure At present the way of the trans- 
gressor is easy. A dish of blueberries and so-called 
cream costs 20 cents, a piece of blueberry pie con- 
taining three times the food value, requiring five 
times the labor to prepare, costs 10 cents. Two 
doughnuts cost 5 cents, while rolls and butter cost 
10, and bread and milk with half the food value 
costs 15. What a revolution the simple adjustment 
of price of food to value would cause ! 

In one's own home the case is little better unless 
the mistress understands how to keep the golden 
mean between the appetite and the need of the body. 
To a great extent each person is a law unto himself, 
but when a dull, sleepy or headachy afternoon is sure 
to follow the partaking of a certain lunch, why con- 
tinue to take that lunch? " She tempted me and I 
did eat." How many a man could say it with perfect 
truth to-day. When shall the lesson of the proverb, 
" A man is what he eats," be thoroughly learned? 

Is life worth living? Then let us learn to make 



56 THE COST OF FOOD 

the most of it, for half its cost is the cost of the food 
to sustain it. 

It is the belief in the potency of natural causes to 
bring man to his full estate, and an ambition to reach 
that estate that is demanded. Every person must 
make his choice, not only as to a profession and his 
place in it, but as to how much he is willing to pay 
for it. 

THE BUSINESS MAN's LUNCHEON 

A tour of down-town lunch places at the noon 
hour reveals two sharply-defined classes of patrons: 
(i) Those who believe in steak and chops as best 
brain- and nerve-food, and can afiford a dollar or a 
dollar and a half luncheon. (2) Those who beheve 
in staying the pangs of hunger for the least money. 
These pay ten cents for a piece of pie and some 
cheese with a glass of milk, or a cup of coffee at five 
cents more, and get just as much nutritive value as 
the other — provided the body can assimilate it in that 
form : 



Proteid, Fat, Carbohydrate, ^ , 
Grams. Grams. Grams. 



ones. 



Chop 15 20 247.5 

Potatoes 2.1 .1 17 7 82 

Salad 5 i-6 1.4 23 

Orange-ice 12 49 

17.6 21.7 31. I 401 

J mince pie 6 15 66 436 

^ oz. cheese 3.5 4-i -3 53-7 

I pint milk 8.3 10. 12.5 178 

17.8 29.1 78.8 668 



FOOD FOR THE TRAVELLER 57 

If the luncheon is to serve as dinner, double its 
value in both cases may be put upon it. 

Habit is, alas, all-powerful, and the man with great 
business interests at stake, which he must consider at 
his desk, will continue to rush out for his quick and 
hasty luncheon just as he did five or ten years before 
w'hen, as a subordinate, he was on the street half the 
morning going Irom one business building to an- 
other, to the wharves, to the custom-house, etc. 
Very few men seem to adapt their habits to their con- 
dition. Again and again I must say it, it is because 
of their unbelief in the effect of food on their physical 
condition and on. their careers. 

THE shopper's LUNCHEON 

The majority of women who throng the stores 
may also be divided into two classes: (i) The care- 
ful housewife with a long list, who is appalled at the 
prices of the restaurant and who tries to finish her day 
of unaccustomed exercise on a slice of toast and a cup 
of tea, or takes chocolate eclairs or a small ice-cream, 
with the natural consequence of a raging headache, 
blunted judgment, and unsatisfactory purchases. 
(2) The woman who boards and who means to eat 
something she likes or something new, and who does 
not mind the time it takes. She comes down town 
nearly every day, and she does not travel half the city 
over, in one day, as does the first woman, she saunters 



5 8 THE COST OF FOOD 

slowly along one street or two at most. Her luncheon 
consists of a medley of croquettes, salads, and sweets 
which could never agree; dishes dressed over so that 
the original ingredients may never be revealed, and 
she pays fifty to seventy-five cents for the next day 
in bed, or perhaps a physician, and her family pay in 
unhappiness. 

Until one makes a business of visiting the popular 
restaurants of any city, one does not realize what a 
force these restaurants are in the forming and fixing 
of food habits. Many attempts have been made to 
provide hygienic luncheons, but the number of those 
willing to reform at the expense of a little time and 
thought is too small at any one point to sustain such 
an establishment. Besides, the only persons who 
have interest enough in the problem are those cranks 
who believe a single article of diet, or a peculiar way 
of cooking, is all-sufficient. In every city there may 
be found, in out-of-the-way places, " eating-houses " 
presided over by some motherly soul where really 
good food may be had under plain old-fashioned 
names; where one need not fear to eat of any dish 
on the bill of fare ; where below stairs it is as clean as 
the visible portion and where twenty-five or thirty 
cents will procure a good meal. 



FOOD FOR THE TRaVKLLKR 59 

BACHELOR BOARDING 

I have elsewhere estimated that 25% of the family 
income was a sufficient proportion to pay for raw- 
food material and 15% more for the preparation, 
serving, etc. For an income of $1,200 per year this « 
would mean $300 for food and $200 for serving it, or 
$500 out of the $1,200 for a family of three or four 
persons, including the maid and occasional guests. 

The young man with a salary of $1,200 is apt to 
pay $5 or $6 a week for his table-board, $300; and 
lunches and suppers beside to the extent of $150. 
Now, then, can he consider matrimony and the sup- 
port of a family? He rightly feels that he must live 
well in order to do his work well, and he does not 
know how to do it for less, and no one is solving the 
problem for him. If he marries, his wife has only 
the same bachelor experience to go upon and can 
only double the expense. What wonder that it is a 
current saying among men, '* Oh, I can't marry until 
I have< $3,000 a year." A tine commentary, this, on 
the intelligence and thrift of American youth, and a 
good and sufficient reason for the decrease of na- 
tive population! 

A word to the thoughtful should be sufficient. An 
adequate discussion of the bearing of these facts 
would lead us too far afield. 



VII 

FOOD FOR THOSE IN PENAL AND PAUPER 
INSTITUTIONS 

'' Deficient diet, like all morbid conditions, both corporeal and 
mental, is a vitiating and degenerating influence." 

— King Chambers. 

Those unfortunate individuals who are kept at the 
expense of the State may be conveniently divided 
into two g-eneral classes: 

1. The potential citizen, as pauper children who 
may grow up into men and women returning to the 
State full value, criminal youth who may be brought 
into better ways and so repay the care and trouble; 
and the sick poor, who also come under this class. 

2. The pauper past work, the hopelessly insane, 
and the vicious. 

The food for the latter class may be dismissed 
with few words. While the State undertakes to care 
for them, it must not starve them nor give them 
such food as to cause diseased conditions. This 
latter is self-evident, because a sick person costs more 
to care for than a well one. But there is no obliga- 
tion to give them more than that quantity and 

quaHty which will serve the ends of existence. They 

60 



FOOD FOR CRIMINALS AND PAUPERS 6l 

have forfeited any rights to pampering. Hence it 
is that when a subsistence ration is to be studied, 
scientific men all over the world go to these institu- 
tions for data. There are several other reasons why 
conclusions are more valuable in such cases. The 
inmates have little chance of getting food from out- 
side. They are usually under the eye of the physi- 
cian. The raw food material is of standard quality, 
of which the analyses are more numerous, and there- 
fore more to be relied upon. It is limited in variety, 
purchased by contract, and the amounts served are 
more definitely known. This is in cases where there 
is no fraud, and where the cooking is skilfully and 
conscientiously done — which is, alas, not always the 
case. 

In one institution, of the first class, no longer in 
existence, several hundred children from six to four- 
teen years were fed at a cost of 9.5 cents with sufhcient 
good raw material which was spoiled in the cooking, 
— insufficiently stewed beans, w^iich caused diarrhoea 
in many cases, sour bread, etc. Their blotched, 
pinched faces, and stunted bodies, were pitiful to be- 
hold. It were better that they should have been put 
out of the way like superfluous kittens than that they, 
through no fault of theirs, should be kept alive to be 
no credit to themselves or to the State. 

The inexpensive foods require the most skill in 
cooking, and if such an institution will not pay its 



62 THE COST OF FOOD 

cooks well, it should allow more rations to make up 
for those that are spoiled. For three hundred per- 
sons fed, a difference of five cents a day in cost of 
raw materials means over $5,000 per year. It will 
pay any institution to spend $1,000 in salaries to save 
this amount, and yet to secure more palatable and 
more nutritious food, which can be done so readily 
with sufficient knowledge. 

See Table VII, p. 69, for some estimates of costs 
and quantities as a basis for experiment in other 
cases. 

The same is true of these children and young 
people as of more favored ones, that any injury from 
wrong nutrition affects the whole after-life and 
lessens the chance of their growing up to be re- 
spectable citizens. So fully is this understood abroad 
that several foreign countries see to it that school 
children are fed at State expense rather than run the 
risk of having to care for them later as vicious or in- 
competent persons. 

Seven cents a day, or nine at most, should serve 
for those of whom the world has nothing more to 
hope ; while for the others seventeen cents may be 
allowed for the older and fifteen for the younger 
ones, rather than a mean of twelve or fourteen for all. 

Sharp separation of the inmates into groups'is thus 
called for m feeding, however undesirable it may be 
from certain other ethical standpoints. 



FOOD FOR CRIMINALS AND PAUPERS 63 

For young children maintained at city or chari- 
table charge, soup must take the place of milk to a 
certain extent. A sufficient milk diet will, as we have 
seen, cost 12 to 16 cents per day; so that in cases 
where only 9 cents is allowed this is out of the ques- 
tion. A glance at the following table will show how 
various soups may be substituted. Starchy grains, as 
rice and barley^ take the place of the sugar in 
milk. 

From Uffelman's table, page 19, we find that a 
child of 5 needs in grams : 

Proteid, Fat, Carbohydrates, r-oi^.-j^o 
Grams. Grams. Grams. Calories. 

56 43 145 1224 

3 pints of ordinary milk, costing 

10 or 12 cents 46 43 67.7 871 

Bread, 4.5 cz., 1.7 cents 13 1.3 71.0 358 

59 44-3 138.7 1229 

2 pints barley soup, 5 cents 36.2 27.7 85.0 743 

2 " pea " 5 " 13.0 1.3 71.0 358 

1/2 oz. butter, 0.5 " 14.0 .... 130 

49.2 43.0 156.0 1231 

Bread and soup, then, may be substituted at one 
or two meals for bread and milk, as giving the 
needed fluid as well as proportional ingredients. Of 
course tea and coffee are not to be thought of. 
Cocoa is too expensive, although a flavor of it in hot 
milk is much to be preferred to the day-long decoc- 
tion of shells so popular with institution cooks. 
Gingerbread, both hard and soft, cookies with much 
of the sugar outside. If possible, some rice well 
cooked, not mushy, but with separate grains, should 



64 THE COST OF FOOD 

take the place of so much potato. Rice-milk may be 
used. One pound of rice contains 69% starch and 
yields 1600 calories at a cost of five or six cents. 

One pound of potatoes contains 19% of starch and 
yields only 320 calories at a cost of two or even three 
cents for the portion used. It requires some 5 or 6 
pounds of potatoes to give the fuel value of one 
pound of rice. 

Potato puree and stale rolls rubbed up as a milk 
puree make an acceptable variety. The Germans 
use veal as soup-stock much more than v^e do, and 
insist that suitable veal is much more digestible than 
beef, which is rarely used in their dietaries for chil- 
dren. 

A common division for the mid-day meal is 16 to 
20 grams of albumen and 32 to 40% of the cost for 
the day. The quantity may be 150 grams rice-milk, 
or 300 grams soup with 35 to 45 grams meat. After 
the age of two years, 10 pfennigs (2.5 cents) per day 
are allowed. 

ACTUAL BILL OF FARE, ORPHAN ASYLUM 

[Cost 9.5 cents per person daily — average for six months, 1899.] 

Sunday 
Breakfast: Liver, bread, coffee or tea. 
Dinner: Corned beef, stewed fruit, hominy, and 

dessert. 
Supper: Bread, gingerbread, tea or milk. 



l^OOD FOR CRIMINALS AND PAUPERS 6$ 

Monday 

Breakfast: Sausage, bread, coffee or tea. 
Dinner: Roast beef, rice, potatoes, and gravy. 
Supper: Biscuit, butter, tea or milk. 

Tuesday 

Breakfast: Oatmeal, bread, coffee or tea. 
Dinner: Hash,^slaw, potatoes, and gravy. 
Supper: Bread, molasses, tea or milk. 

Wednesday 

Breakfast: Scrapple, bread, butter, and coffee. 
Dinner: Pork, beans, potatoes, and dessert. 
Supper: Bread, butter, tea or milk. 

Thursday 

Breakfast: Gravy, bread, butter, and coffee. 
Dinner: Brunswick stew, slaw, and potatoes. 
Supper: Apple butter, bread, tea or milk. 

Friday 
Breakfast: Oatmeal, butter, bread, and coffee. 
Dinner: Roast beef, hominy, potatoes, and gravy. 
Supper: Bread, butter, milk or tea. 

Saturday 
Breakfast: Bread, butter, coffee or tea. 
Dinner: Ham, cabbage or turnip, and potatoes. 
Supper: Apple butter, bread, tea or milk. 



66 THE COST OF FOOD 



PROPOSED MENU FOR HOME, TO COST II CENTS 

[Prices Ruling in 1898.] 

Sunday 

Breakfast: Boiled rice or hominy with molasses, 
bread, cereal coffee or milk. 

Dinner: Roast beef and gravy, potatoes, pudding, 
bread. 

Supper: Bread and butter, milk, apple sauce. 

Monday 

Breakfast: Oatmeal with milk and sugar, bread, 

cereal coffee or milk. 
Dinner: Beef soup with vegetables, cold slaw (?), 

bread. 
Supper: Bread and butter, milk, prune sauce. 

Tuesday 

Breakfast : Salt fish and cream, bread, cereal coffee 

or milk. 
Dinner: Baked beans, bread, pickles, pudding. 
Supper: Bread, gingerbread, cheese, milk. 

Wednesday 

Breakfast : Corn cake and butter, cereal coffee or 

milk. 
Dinner: Corned beef and vegetables, bread. 
Supper: Bread, apple butter, milk. 



FOOD FOR CRIMINALS AND PAUPERS 



67 



Thursday 

Breakfast: Oatmeal and molasses, bread, cereal 

coffee or milk. 
Dinner: Beef stew, bread, pudding. 
Supper: Bread and butter, sugar-buns, milk. 

Friday 

Breakfast: Corn mush with milk and sugar, bread, 

cereal cofifee or milk. 
Dinner: Fish chowder or baked fish and potatoes, 

bread. 
Supper: Bread and butter, baked apples, milk. 

Saturday 

Breakfast: Hash, bread, cereal coffee or milk. 
Dinner: Pea or bean soup, bread, stewed fruit. 
Supper: Bread and butter, cookies, milk. 

General Directimis 

Breakfast : When it can be done with economy, sub- 
stitute hash or stew. 

Dinner: For puddings, use rice (with or \\-ithout 
raisins), bread and apple, tapioca, corn- 
starch, bread, etc., making variety. 

Supper: Use Graham bread occasionally. 

INSPECTION OF AN INSTITUTION AS TO FOOD-SUPPLY 

I. If for well persons, note appearance of inmates: 
character of flesh (solid and muscular or flabby); 



6S THE COST OF FOOD 

color, if normal; complexion, if clear and normal, or 
blotched and " broken out " on lips, ears, or eyes. 
Note eyes, if clear and alert, or dull and heavy; note 
movements, if full and vigorous, or languid; watch 
a meal to see if the food is relished or rejected. If 
complaints, see what they are. If a hospital, the con- 
dition of the patients is not so good a guide, except 
as to reHsh and gain in condition. This is difificult 
to get at, and considerable diplomacy is often needed 
to accomplish anything like a fair judgment. 

2. Inspect the kitchen just before the food is 
served. Do this for the three meals, and stay during 
the serving and note what comes away uneaten. 

Points: (a) thorough cooking; 

(b) cleanly condition of utensils ; 

(c) attractive serving (hot or cold) ; 

(d) note indigestible gravies or sauces ; 

(e) " quantity; is it sufficient? 

(f) " method of cooking. 

3. Larder and storehouse: Note quality and clean- 
liness, especially variety. 

4. Personnel: Are the employees interested to do 
the best they know how? Are they intelligent? Are 
they teachable? 

5. Cost: Is it excessive? Can equally nutritious 
and attractive fare be served for less money? 



FOOD FOR CRIMINALS AND PAUPERS 



69 



TABLE VII 

DIETARY OF THREE INSTITUTIONS FURNISHED FROM 
THE SAME MARKET 



Number 

Cost (centsi) per person daily. 

* Proteid " " " 

* Fat 

* Carbohydrates " " 

* Calories " " 
Oz. per person 

Distributed as follows : 
Meat and fish (fresh and salt) 

Eggs 

Cheese 

Milk 

Butter and lard 

Flour, cornmeal, crackers. 

Oatmeal, hominy, rice 

Peas, beans 

Tapioca, sage, corn-starch. 

Sugar 

Dried fruits 

Potatoes 

Fresh vegetables 

Apples 

Molasses 



A 
Inmates. 



1754 

7.34 

122 

69 

624 

3700 

65.58 



A' 
Officers. 



107 
40.6 



B 

Inmates 
and Em- 
ployees 



10.23 
.Oil 



2.84 



24.06 

.34 

1.34 



•03 



15.64 
6.33 



4.76 



157.24 

45.30 

1.03 

.20 

23.33 

1.78 

8.80 

.52 

.76 

.03 

3.90 

•29 

29.85i 

39-331 

.96 

1. 16 



375 
12.9 

IIO.O 

114.0 
449.0 

3327 
75.52 

10.80 

.86 

.28 

16.20 

1.80 

12.20 

1.20 

.70 

.20 

3.05 

.31 

13.50 

12.87 

.85 

.70 



* No data given as to number of guests in column A''. 



■ VIII 

FOOD FOR THE PERSON IN A HOSPITAL 

"Just as metal has to be extracted from the ore before it is 
any use, so by the process of digestion the nutritive constituents 
have to be extracted from a food before they can be absorbed." 

— Malv. 

" The careful preparation of food is now recognized to be of 
vital importance to an invalid and a valuable assistance, in many 
cases, to the physician in hastening the recovery of a patient." 

— Helena V. Saciise. 

While we may blame a well man for setting his 
appetite above his intellectual or business interests, 
we are obliged to humor a sick man as far as his 
physical welfare will permit. 

The nutritive constituents are extracted from or- 
dinary food only when it is mingled with and saturated 
by the digestive juices sent out from the various 
glands in response to the stimulus of odor, flavor, 
and texture, real or imagined. If the juices do not 
flow, then the food remains inert and no real " feed- 
ing " can take place. Predigested foods are offered 
in this emergency, but belong to the dispensary 
rather than to the kitchen. 

It is to most persons a shock and an excitement 

70 



FOOD FOR TUF PFKSON IX A HOSl'TTAI, 7 1 

to find themselves in such an unaccustomed place 
as a hospital and with so many other people, and the 
first point to be gained is to make them comfortable 
and contented; the second, to give them suitable 
food, presented in such a way that they will relish it. 
The *' relish " goes a long way toward making the 
food '^ suitable." A contented frame of mind and faith 
in the- nurse andxin what she brings increases the 
secretions and relaxes the nervous tension, so that 
the energy of the body may be given to digesting 
and assimilating the food. 

Therefore, before considering z>.'hat to give the 
patients who are conscious, a few words on how to 
serve it are appropriate: 

First, that food which is served hot should be hot 
and not lukewarm; that which is to be cold should 
he cold. If the hospital appliances are not favorable 
to this, then they must be so arranged as to admit 
of it before any success can be hoped for. 

Too large portions should not be given at once, as 
an appetite for more will tend to cause the patient 
to thoroughly digest what is taken; and it must al- 
ways be borne in mind that it is not what is eaten 
but what is assimilated that nourishes the body, and 
it is more important to bear this in mind in a hos- 
pital than anywhere else, since exercise and dis- 
tracting occupation are wanting and the action of 
the system is apt to be sluggish. 



72 THE COST OF FOOD 

Novelty in food does not commend itself to people 
who have had little variety in their lives; they relish 
best that to which they have been accustomed. 
Neatness and attractiveness go a long way toward 
making food palatable; therefore, this aid should be 
used as far as possible, especially since ways of serv- 
ing can be varied more readily than the articles of 
diet. A few pretty dishes to carry to those to whom 
food in thick crockery would be utterly repellent 
serve to distract attention from the act of eating. 
Even if there are only a few^ such dishes in the ward, 
it will be an occupation for the patient to guess to 
wliom they will be given at any particular meal. 

Of course, this takes time and thought, and a hos- 
pital nurse is often overworked; yet, if she real- 
izes the great importance of this part of the means 
used for recovery, she will find time for it. She will 
soon learn to whom it will make a difference and to 
whom it is a waste of time to offer such attentions. 



DIET IN GENERAL 

Surgical patients and those who are simply to be 
" fed well " should have good and sufficient food, 
and that which is easily digested. Since they are no 
longer at work in the open air, even strong men 
should not be fed upon fried pork and heavy dump- 
lings, but they miss the accustomed flavor of hearty 



FOOD FOR THE PERSON IN A HOSPITAL ^2^ 

food, and bacon may be given occasionally, and, 
twice a day, meat or fish of some kind with potato, 
bread, and butter. These four articles — meat, potato, 
bread, and butter — make up the diet of a large part 
of hospital patients in the common wards. In their 
own homes they are not accustomed to soups, and 
it is a part of their education while they are in the 
hospital to teach tliem the value of food so prepared. 
If they find themselves comfortable and growing 
stronger on such diet, they will believe in it. No 
better school of diet could be found than an intelli- 
gently managed hospital. Even though the patient 
stays but a week or ten days, he should have gained 
something w^hich will benefit him in his after life, 
for cleanliness and diet must always be insisted upon. 
It is, therefore, of the utmost importance that the 
nurses should be as perfectly trained in the serving 
of food and in the general principles of diet as in any 
other portion of their duties, for no medicine or 
disinfection can take the place of nutritious food as 
a factor in recovery. 

Instead of combating the whims of patients or 
yielding weakly to them, a knowledge of what is best 
in general practice, and experience of how to ** ad- 
minister " food, should be shared by house officers 
and nurses. There are at least five requirements : 

First. Production of good flavor and odor. Here 
again is the difficulty of dealing with a mass of peo- 



74 THE COST OF FOOD 

pie, for while garlic is dear to one man's soul, 
another loathes it. Certain carefully prepared com- 
binations must be decided upon, and in special cases 
the coveted flavor added after the food reaches the 
wards. The success of certain of the New England 
Kitchen dishes shows that this is possible, though 
only after careful study and experiment. All strong 
odors should be avoided — those which may reach 
from one bed to another. Irritating spices, such as 
solid particles of pepper, cloves, etc., should not be 
used in food for the wards. 

Second. Each article should be prepared in such a 
way as to make little tax upon the digestive system, 
because digestion uses up energy which should go 
to recuperation. This is a most important point. 
The human body can at best produce only a limited 
amount of energy, and if an undue portion of this is 
consumed in preparing the food taken for absorption, 
there is less left for the process of repair which, in the 
hospital, uses the surplus otherwise given to work. 
This surplus energy is small at most, probably only 
about one-third the total of which the body at its best 
is capable of producing. 

As the flow of blood which carries the nutritive 
material to all parts of the body is usually sluggish, 
because of the passive repose of the patient, it is 
essential that it should be sufficiently rich in nutritive 
value. Yet so sensitive are the living cells that they 



FOOD FOR TUF PERSON IN A HOSl'ITAL 75 

are paralyzed by too great a concentration, just as a 
plant or tree is killed by too much fertilizer. For 
this reason food should be given in small quantities 
at frequent intervals, when it is so prepared as to go 
at once into the circulation. Eggs and soup do not 
" stand by " as does the hearty diet of the well person. 

Third. If a food properly prepared from cheap 
material can replace an expensive one, it should be 
used, since more people can have the benefit of care 
when the expense per capita is low in any public in- 
stitution, and since principles of sound economy 
should rule in the use of trust funds. 

Fourth. As a rule, it is the heat-giving and energy- 
giving food w^hich is most required, with that which 
spares the precious albuminous tissue, rather than 
so much albumen as is often given. In some cases 
of loss of blood or lack of flesh, rapid utilization of 
nitrogen is desirable, and then eggs and steak may 
be needed as a process of stuffing. This is more or 
less dangerous on account of the extra work given 
to such organs as the kidneys, and the production of 
heat and energy in this way is wasteful compared 
with that produced by legitimate foods. 

Fifth. Soups, broths, fruit soups, swxetened drinks, 
which are ninety-five to ninety-eight per cent of 
water; fruits, jellies, and porridge, which are eighty 
to ninety per cent water, should form the main diet 
of many hospital patients for several reasons: 



^6 THE COST OF FOOD 

(a) Each mouthful contains so Httle food that it 
can be readily mixed with the natural juices before 
more is taken, and so the nutrition in the first spoon- 
ful may penetrate to the finger-ends and encourage 
and stimulate the nerves to call for more even before 
the last spoonful is taken. This is often the secret 
of increasing a patient's appetite. 

{h) The heat imparted to the contents of the 
stomach, while it is not sufficient to affect the whole 
body to any great degree, is stimulating to diges- 
tion. 

(f) In most cases recovery is hastened by the rapid 
removal of the accumulation of waste material. For 
this the blood must be dilute in order to take up 
more substances in its passage. If it is a saturated 
solution it cannot do this. 

{d) The more or less feeble and sluggish cells can- 
not take as much nourishment at a time as active 
ones do, and the solution by which they are sur- 
rounded should be dilute. 

{e) To keep up the water lost by evaporation and 
otherwise, and to furnish enough so that there will 
be an excess available for sufficient evaporation to keep 
the surface cool, this is often the best antipyretic. 

(f) It is often easier to administer nourishment in 
liquid form. 



FOOD rOR THE PERSON IN A HOSPITAL 7/ 

HOUSE-DIET OR NORMAL DIET 

The foregoing will enable us to consider a bill of 
fare for the house in general. Since economy is im- 
perative, as many of the dishes as possible, should be 
cooked in bulk, enough for the whole house, leaving 
the extras to be given for each of the five tables 
usual in a hospital of which the patients' is the most im- 
portant. 

The officers' table needs both easily digested and 
hearty food, since hard work, long hours, and anxiety 
are making a drain upon the system, while coolness 
and nerve are essential; therefore food should not be 
irritating or indigestible. The nurses' table must 
meet the same requirements. The employees, on the 
other hand, have hard w^ork and should have hearty 
food and that which will stand by, but it must be 
consistent with strict economy. 

Next in importance to the full house-diet, " nor- 
mal diet," is the convalescent diet, for those who are 
sufficiently recovered from acute disease to take 
normal diet with the elimination of the hearty dishes, 
but w^ho are not able to take full quantity. This 
should be made up from such dishes on the list for 
the day as can be taken from the normal diet and 
supplemented from the special list which is posted 
daily as prepared. It must be borne in mind by both 
house officers and nurses that a separate order means 



78 THE COST OF FOOD 

increased cost, not so much in the article of food or- 
dered, but in the time of the high-class service 
needed to prepare it properly, and in the interruption 
of the general movement of the service. 

In hospitals the cost of food is a most important 
part of the total expense, and it should be most care- 
fully regulated. That is, for the patients to whom 
food is life and for whom aversion to food means 
death, no expense should be grudged. Cream, 
eggs, beef-juice, chops, anything really needful 
should be supplied, but for those patients to whom 
corned beef and cabbage represent luxury, it is not 
necessary to stimulate an artificial appetite. Neither 
is it necessary that the strong and hearty attendant 
should have the fruit and delicacies given to paying 
private patients. There is a lack of moral sense in 
the community which permits the use of trust funds 
for very different purposes from those for which they 
were devised. 

When one recalls the early struggles and self- 
denial of the man or woman who has left $10,000 or 
$50,000 to aid in the relief of suffering humanity, it 
is not with entire equanimity that the expert called 
in to examine the dietary finds that 23.6 oz. of meat, 
37 oz. milk, 20 oz. potatoes, 2.6 oz. butter and 5 oz. 
of sugar are on record as being purchased which, 
w^ith other things, bring up the cost to 50 cents or 
over; nearly twice the amount and cost needful. 



FOOD FOR THF PERSON IX A HOSPITAL 79 

New England thrift is passing with the disappear- 
ance of the careful housewife, and a great impatience 
of any restraint in food is evident on all sides. So 
that authorities cannot be held especially blame- 
worthy for an increase in the cost of carrying on this 
side of the work, any more than they may be justly 
criticised for spending thousands for modern sur- 
gical equipment; one room to-day costs as much as 
a whole hospital fifty years ago. What authorities 
should do is to put the same grade of intelligence at 
work on the food side as on the medical and surgical 
side, and to be sure that a fair equivalent is obtained 
for the trust funds expended. In the above case, it 
is quite impossible that such large amounts, together 
with the other very liberal supplies, could have been 
eaten with safety by the inmates, some of whom 
would have been made ill by half the quantities. 
All large establishments have leaks which need con- 
stant attention. 

There is one feature of modern hospital develop- 
ment which demands careful consideration. While 
we are crowding well people in great numbers into 
hotels and apartment-houses, while large restaurants 
and dining-rooms are increasing, the successful treat- 
ment of the sick and insane is demanding more and 
more isolation in small groups and even individual 
service. This is far more expensive, since the waste 
is necessarily greater and since the individual likes 



So THE COST OF FOOD 

are catered to to a greater extent. Again, pay-wards 
and cottages are now connected with nearly all in- 
stitutions, and in these, patients demand the same sort 
of food as that to which they have been accustomed. 
This fact, probably more than any other, has led to 
the increased cost of food. If it seemed necessary to 
employ a chef to cook for these, why should not 
nurses and house doctors have the same quality? 
When one sees and handles tempting food, one feels 
aggrieved if forbidden to taste. Hence it is not un- 
natural that employees should use the top of the 
eight-quart can of milk for their own coffee, or take 
toll of the fruit and delicacies going past them. Un- 
less they can be made to feel that it is dishonest, they 
W'ill continue to do it if the stores are not under lock 
and key. 

A small establishment is in this way more expen- 
sive, because it is not possible, as it is in a large one, 
to have a separate table for the different grades. 

For example, in an institution with looo patients 
there will be four grades of employees: 

1st. House of^cers and heads of departments. 

2d. Nurses and second assistants. 

3d. Engineers, workmen, etc. 

4th. Scrub-women, janitors, choremen, etc. 

Each of these grades can have a separate eating- 
room with different hours and bill of fare costing 15, 
25, 30, and 50 cents per day, or 20,^30, 3.S, and 75 



FOOD P^OR THE PERSON IX A HOSPITAL 8 1 

cents per day, as the case may be, but the average 
will not be above 20 or 30 cents. 

In a small hospital with the cottage system, where 
all have the same food, the expense will probably be 
ten cents per capita higher. 

The only thing for the governing head of an in- 
stitution to do is to have its accounts so kept that 
he can study it^ own special conditions and decide 
what, all things considered, it is best to do, and then 
to give orders to have it strictly carried out. In one 
case, $12,000 was saved in a year by this means. A 
little relaxing of the strictness, however, in deference 
to the common demand soon allowed the expense to 
creep back. 

In the present transition stage from the old 
to the new, culinary and housekeeping manage- 
ment is in much the same condition in households 
large and small. Neither the apparatus nor the help- 
ers are suitable and adapted to the work they should 
do to bring this department up to the standard of 
the best modern equipment. Here is a field for in- 
vention and organization open to women with busi- 
ness training. Will they take advantage of it? 

The same struggle is going on in schools and col- 
leges — a struggle caused by the decided change in 
tastes and habits of the people without a correspond- 
ing change in the means of meeting them. Every- 
where improvements are made in building; labora- 



82 THE COST OF FOOD 

tories are added, libraries are put up, lecture-halls 
are better lighted and heated, and some feeble at- 
tempts are made to ventilate them. The institution 
is lauded as being up to date. The last place to feel 
this wave of progress is the culinary department. 
Old worn-out ranges, low^ unventilated kitchens^ 
grease-soaked sinks and tables are retained. 

When the therapeutic value of food is more fully 
recognized, there will be greater willingness to 
authorize the expense required in providing and pre- 
paring the best. If the surest means of securing im- 
munity from attacks of disease is well-nourished tis- 
sues, then the best handmaid of medicine is that 
nourishment which will be accepted by the tissues, 
and thus aid in vanquishing the enemy which has al- 
ready a foothold. The members of the medical pro- 
fession have yet to appreciate to the full what the 
scientific cook could do for them. The difficulty lies 
with the opinions of the general public, as Mrs. 
Campbell '^ says: 

'' It is always easier, even for otherwise intelli- 
gent folk, to swallow" something from a bottle or 
box than to obey natural law. When old Plum's 
brother Darius died, they flocked In over the hills to 
the funeral, and one of the cousins asked what Darius 
had died of, and /\unt Prissy, who had provided him 

*The Linborough Sanitarium. 



FOOD FOR THE PERSON IX A HOSPITAL 83 

pie three times a day for forty-five years, made the 
reply, * Darius died because his digeesters was all 
wore out.' And again she says : 

" I can study degenerates right here — that is what 
you are all at, I believe; a population that has chosen 
patent medicine instead of common sense, all the dis- 
eases born of old English obstinacy and New Eng- 
land folly." 

To adapt the food to the conditions of environment 
is to go a long way toward conquering fate. 

To recognize the essentially animal character of 
the human body, while not ignoring the temporary 
power of the mind over matter, is essentia.1 to a sound 
therapy of food. 



iX 



FOOD FOR MIDDLE LIFE AND OLD AGE 

" Discerne of the coming on of yeares, and thinke not to doe 
the same things still, for age will not be defied." — Bacon. 

If we agree to the definition of food given on 
page 13, we shall be prepared to accept the state- 
ment that when the enthusiasm of youth abates and 
the active movements decrease; when we allow the 
children to go up-stairs for a forgotten handker- 
chief; when we contentedly sit on the piazza and see 
the young people start off to the mountain or the 
lake, we are not in a condition to utilize the same 
amounts of food as when we were younger and more 
restless. 

Appetite usually outstays physiological need, and 
when the art of the cook adds flavor and daintiness 
of serving to the food, the danger is tenfold. Under 
the present condition of abundance of food and^ of 
money to spend, more middle-aged persons eat too 
much than too little; eat too concentrated food and 
drink too little water. 

A list kept for some years of persons of fifty to 

sixty dying suddenly is full of cases like the follow- 

84 



FOOD FOR MIDDLE LIFE AND OLD AGE 8$ 

ing: " He seemed to be in ordinary health during 
the forenoon, and at noon lunched heartily in the 
State House Cafe; at 1.30 he complained of not feel- 
ing well. ... At 2.30 he was dead." 

The case of a well-known and favorite author was 
reported thus: " x\t noon to-day he attended a lunch- 
eon to bid farewell to some friends about to leave 
for the Mediterranean. He was cheerful and gave 
no indication of illness. After the luncheon he started 
on a walk. . . . He felt ill, asked leave to lie down at 
a house, and was found dead in a few minutes." 

The reporter never seems to connect cause and 
effect. 

The mere number of years is not so important as 
the physiological age of the person, if w"e may so ex- 
press it. Whenever, from any cause, the individual 
ceases to eliminate the excess and begins to store up 
substance, it is time to take precautions lest the 
strain cause a weakness in some organ or tissue. 
Overwork bears the blame for the breakdowns so 
common. Overwork is almost impossible to the 
well-nourished person. The well-fed, constantly 
driven horse turns back one ear at the snap of the 
whip. The brain is the most sensitive of all organs 
to the poison of imperfectly digested food or inflamed 
tissues. For modern science makes it clear that it is 
not only possible but probable that decompositions 
ma}- easily go on in the body which yield more or 



86 TIIK COST OF I'OOJ) 

less toxic substances to the circulating blood. These 
substances do not necessarily kill; like extracted 
alkaloids, they may stimulate the nervous action and 
stimulate beyond the power of nutrition. Wakeful- 
ness, anxiousness, sleeplessness may all be caused by 
mal-nutrition arising- from imperfect assimilation of 
abundant food-materials. Digestion in its correct 
sense only renders the food absorbable. If this pre- 
pared food cannot be taken by the tissues, it may un- 
dergo decomposition and thus become a source of 
danger. The mature person is not dependent upon 
food eaten to-day for to-day's strength. It is yester- 
day's or last week's meal which is h'eld in reserve. 

The warnings of nature pass unheeded, because 
the individual is deaf and blind to them, having 
grown up with the firm belief that it makes no differ- 
ence what, when, or where he eats. Because he still 
takes pleasure in his food, he dismisses the physician 
whom he has called in to prescribe for his stiff joints 
or irregular heart. I well remember with what as- 
tonishment I made the discovery that a fancied 
heart-disease which made climbing stairs distressful 
disappeared before a more abstemious diet, and was, 
therefore, not a sign of breaking up at fifty — a cor- 
responding relief! 

Personally, I believe a more nearly vegetarian 
diet is better, partly since it gives less chance of 
those inventions of some diabolical cook in past ages. 



FOOD FOR MIODLK LIFE A\D OLD AOF Hy 

handed down because of man's sins, the rich gravies 
and sauces with which so many meats are served, and 
partly since the kidneys so frequently show the 
strain of previous excess and are not able to elimin- 
ate so much nitrogen. Again, when food of vege- 
table origin fails to digest, it does not give rise to 
toxines, so far as our present knowledge goes. By 
vegetable food most persons understand white 
bread, potatoes, rice, etc., all starchy foods. These 
are not always well endured, and frequently give rise 
to acid conditions which result in various inflamma- 
tory diseases. Fruits, especially those picked green 
and transported in cold storage, afifect some persons 
in the same way. There are, however, abundant ma- 
terials without using an excess of these. It is prob- 
able that about half of the calories, half the starch, 
and two-thirds the proteid that he could well utilize 
at twenty-five or thirty, may fully serve a person at 
sixty. 

Investigations by Forster show the following proportions for 

Proteid, Fat, Carbohydrates, ^ , 

Grams. Grams. Grams. Calories. 

Old men 92 45 332 2149 

Old women 80 49 266 1875 

As the taste becomes blunted and the circulation 
slows down, smaller quantities may well be supple- 
mented by more frequent eating, as in childhood, 
though for a different reason. 

It would probably answer very well to give the 



SS THE COST OF FOOD 

old and the young the same kinds of food; the old, 
because it furnishes heat which their lack of motion 
makes it difficult to obtain; the young, because it fur- 
nishes heat to use up in mere motion. Both are fond 
of sugar and of fruit. Eggs are good for both, but 
rice for the old must be replaced for the child by 
whole wheat with its ash and phosphates. To the 
aged is permitted the use of stimulants as tea, and 
of blood-vessel extenders as wine, which must be for- 
bidden to the young because they not only do not 
require but are positively injured by such artificial 
excitants. 

Nine out of ten will say that they would rather live 
a shorter time and enjoy the years they have. But 
the pity of it is, they do not enjoy Hfe; they become 
stiff in the joints and irritable in mind, making mis- 
takes in family life and in business, and in their efforts 
to rid themselves of the consequences of folly become 
mentally weakened and too often morally so blinded 
that death seems preferable to life. We are apt to 
think only of the grosser sins as causes of nervous 
depression and mental breakdowns, and to pass by 
the more common sins against the fundamental law 
of life — nutrition. 

As men grow wiser, as they value effective human 
life more nearly as they value a machine, they will 
banish at least one-third of the concoctions with 
which men are tempted to their undoing. Temper- 



FOOD FOR MIDDLE LIFE AND OLD AGE 89 

ance in eating is quite as necessary as in anything 
else, and with the network of trolley-cars jarring our 
nerves and taking from us the need of exercise, we 
are in danger of becoming very ineffective. 

A great trouble is that we are not willing to con- 
fess to any weakness. We can eat what any one can. 
We can do anything; we Americans are superior to 
laws. We are not growing old. We are afraid of 
thinking about our food. This has a basis .of truth. 
Many persons cannot themselves hold a balance of 
judgment as to what they shall eat without danger 
of diverting the nervous force from its proper work. 

But the greatest danger lies in the credulity which 
still lingers in the public mind, the willingness to try 
any quick and sure remedy. Quack foods are, per- 
haps, more pernicious than quack medicines. Pos- 
sibly the one is the corollary of the other. To one 
who knows anything of the physiological laws of 
nutrition, it is disheartening to hear a group of 
friends in middle life, who are gaining in weight and 
beginning to suffer twinges of rheumatism, discuss- 
ing this or that antiacid medicine ; a special mineral 
water. Each favors a sea voyage to be undertaken at 
great sacrifice, when the remedy is clearly just a little 
self-control, a passing by of a course or two, an absti- 
nence from a few favorite dishes. 



X 

DIETARIES OR KNOWN AMOUNTS OF FOOD: GEN- 
ERAL PRINCIPLES FOR THE GUIDANCE OF 
THE PURVEYOR 

" What strikes us rather as the special evil of the feneration 
is an increase of the force of whim, of the inclination; that is, to 
gratify impulse without reference to old restraints and of a cer- 
tain reaction against goodness because the value placed on it is 
seen to be gathering strength . . . the almost limitless freedom 
which money in large amounts can give." — London Spectator, 
July 1901. 

The terms diet and dietaries are used, except in 

Chapter VIII, in the sense of daily fare regulated with 

reference to the preservation of health, and not with 

reference to the restoration of health once lost. In 

popular thoug-ht, the latter meaning is almost always 

the only one. If one diets, it is because he is ill ; has 

transgressed one or several of the laws of nature and 

must be punished. Therefore any hint of' attention 

to dietetics implies putting one's inclinations in 

prison, implies a restriction to which, as free-born 

Americans, we cannot submit. This use of these 

terms must be driven out by education in hygiene in 

the public schools and by the public press. Health, 

and not convalescence, must be the goal of man's 

ambition. 

90 



DIKTARIKS OK KXOWX AMOUNTS OF FOOD gi 

By a dietary, then, we mean that amount and com- 
bination of food which will keep the given person or 
group of persons in full health, if, to begin with, they 
are normal. If they are (as, alas ! too many are) 
abnormal to begin with, then the other or medicinal 
sense has to be mingled with our thought. The re- 
striction in the following chapters is put upon the 
cost of a good and sufficient dietary mainly for well 
persons. 

This item is dwelt upon because so large a propor- 
tion of the average income is spent for food and so 
few providers keep tally of the cost as they buy from 
week to week; that is, of the cost of the nutritive por- 
tion of the food. They may know how much money 
they spend, but not what they obtain for it. 

We base our estimates on what is known as a 
standard dietary; that is, the amount of the different 
foodstuffs which have sufficed for various races, 
families, and individuals under known conditions. 

These foodstuffs, although found in many com- 
binations under numerous forms, are yet very few 
in number and are for the most part capable of ap- 
proximate estimation. 

In each land there are half a dozen foods which 
may be substituted for as many known by different 
names in other lands. Food synonyms, they might 
be termed. 

But many combinations of two or more are more 



92 THE COST OF FOOD 

easily made which may be substituted the one for the 
other, provided only that change of food is not made 
suddenly. Acchmatization consists largely in modi- 
fication of food habits. 

In practice we allow about ten per cent for waste 
in the body through non-assimilation, and if there 
is a liberal diet with much choice of dishes, ten per 
cent more for kitchen- and table-waste. 

For example, if we wish to be sure that our group 
of students really have one hundred grams of proteid 
or of fat in their daily food, we must provide one 
hundred and twenty-five grams of each. 

It should be easy for any one to make out a die- 
tary from Bulletin No. 28, U. S. Of^ce of Experi- 
ment Stations, for any given cost. That is, for the 
raw materials. The science of it — how to cook, 
flavor, and combine them — there is the field for 
fancy, for art, for invention. At present cooking is 
an art, crude and variable, and scientific accuracy 
cannot be demanded of it. Hence the wide margin 
which must be allowed for spoiled and rejected food. 

For this reason, also, no definite menu can be 
given such as is constantly asked for. Because it is 
refused, the whole subject is usually relegated to the 
mental dump-heap. '* What is one man's meat is an- 
other man's poison " is yet true, and also that one 
cook can make into delicious, nutritious dishes what 
another would make unfit for civilized man. 



DIETARIES OR KXOWX AMOUNTS OF FOOD 93 

Only the raw food-materials can be treated with 
any degree of accuracy. This degree is surer, within 
a limited range, than was formerly supposed. 
Analyses of various food-materials have now been 
made so abundantly that an average can be drawn 
sufficient for the month or year. One day's ration 
might not be so closely calculated, and it is not need- 
ful that it should be. These analyses are now at the 
service of any one who will take the trouble to study 
them. Until we have on all sides a certain familiarity 
with these exact figures, there will be bandied about 
from household magazine to newspaper assertions 
of facts on the one side and denials on the other 
which destroy the confidence of the public in either. 
For instance, in Boston's most respectable daily 
(The Advertiser) of August 9, 1901, there appeared 
a heading: " Feeding Four on 25 Cents a Day." 
The article began: 

" The usual run of papers in cooking-magazines 
are good, and many of them are excellent, giving 
much-needed information, useful advice, and timely 
facts, but the average paper on economy in feeding 
a household is: misleading and sometimes sadly inac- 
curate. 

'* For instance, in a leading household magazine 
appeared an article of this sort, in which, among 
other things, it was stated that one woman said it 
was possible to feed a family of four or five, health- 



94 THE COST OF FOOD 

fully and appetizingly on 25 cents a day, while an- 
other said she could not set an ordinary table undef 
50 cents a day. Now the question is, could the 
woman who thought she could feed four or five on 
25 cents a day, and give them sufificient food, do 
so?" 

I do not know what the original article did say, but 
it is probable that the 25 cents per day was for one 
person, not for the four. We are accustomed to 
speak of the lo-cent, or the 25-cent, or the $i-a-day 
dietary, meaning the expense per day for one per- 
son. Here the need for exact and complete state- 
ment is evident. The newspaper writer was quite 
correct in assuming that for six cents per day per 
person grain mushes must make the bulk of the food, 
for our lowest allowable sum is ten cents per day per 
person. 

The article goes on: 

*' And most of these statements won't hold. 
Without wishing too sharply to criticise t-he state- 
ments of Miss , the teacher of the 

Cooking-school, it is impossible to accept some of 
her statements. She said : ' Three of the students 
of our class were chosen to give a breakfast at grad- 
uation. We were allowed $3 to buy the materials, 
and we had 24 guests. We had the best of every- 
thing, and it cost us just $2.80. Here is the menu 
we served : 



DIETARIES OR KN».)W.\ AMOUNTS OF FOOD 95 

Strawberries with Cream. 

Hominy with Cream. 

Broiled Shad French-fried Potatoes 

Sliced Cucumbers Rolls 

Coffee. 

" ' I remember strawberries cost 25 cents a quart, 
and we required three quarts. We served two large 
shad, and $2.80 covered the breakfast, including the 
smallest details.' 

" Here it is not the cost of the meal that awakens 

surprise, but one of the items. Miss says 

that 24 guests, and presumably the three students 
who got up the breakfast, 2^ in all, were served with 
three quarts of strawberries. Will any one who re- 
members what a quart of strawberries shrinks to by 
the time the berries are hulled try to divide it into 
nine portions, and say if the result constitutes what 
any one could conscientiously term a helping of 
strawberries? " 

Here the snapshot of the daily-news purveyor 
needs correcting. A " quart " of strawberries such 
as the writer had in mind which " shrinks," etc., pur- 
chased when the fruit is dear, does not yield much, 
if any, over a pint, but the " quart " of selected native 
berries such as would be used by these young cooks 
at this time of year would measure very nearly the 
estimated quantity. Six portions are allowed for a 
cjuart bv the caterers, and in a case like this, w^here 



96 



THE COST OF FOOD 



economy was enjoined, eight portions to a quart was 
not so very niggardly after all. Just for the amuse- 
ment of it, the author determined the quantities, 
mainly according to Miss Huntington's * estimates 
and the food values of the menu as given. The re- 
sults, shown in the accompanying table, are most in- 
structive and completely vindicate this class-work. 

TABLE VII 

BREAKFAST FOR 24 PERSONS 





Lb. 


Oz. 


Grms. 


Cost. 


Prot. 


Fat. 


Carb. 


Cal. 


Strawberries, 3 quarts. . . 


5 


72 

2 
12 

4 
12 


2264 
2038 

724 

2722 

105 

340 


$075 
.225 
• 03 
.187 
.72 
.04 
.01 
•IS 
.20 
•«5 
.12 
."3 
•093 


20 

46" 

18 

390 

3-2 


*4 

27 
134 
130 
1.6 


864 
438 
32.5 

372 


775 
3537 
2246 
1460 
2250 
1260 
1042 
8160 
5383 

180 


Hominy 

Thin cream, 3 cups 

Shad 


I 
I 
6 
4 


French-fried Potatoes .... 
Fat 


Rolls, 3 doz. home-made. 


4h 


285 

2.8 


285.0 


1620 
**28'6 




3 


Coffee 


■36 ■■ 
12.8 


•■•362' 


Sugar, 2 lbs. 40Z 






432 


1768 
730 


9 


67 






07 1 .v,./ 




I2.788 
.116 


778 

32-4 
33-3 


703 '3839 

22.9 160 

33.3 lAO 


28736 
"97 

lOIO 


The standard ration 

























So that the three little cooks could have made a 
fair breakfast without seriously robbing the guests. 

Since fat and starch or sugar are to a certain ex- 
tent interchangeable, the slight lack in fat is, in our 
dietary, made up in carbohydrates, and since an exact 
division is neither necessary nor desirable, one of the 
other meals could easily remedy any deficiency. 

♦The Dietary. See Bibliography. 



DIETARIES OR KXOWX AMOUNTS OF FOOD 97 

This particular case is of no special importance. It 
is given in detail simply because it illustrates so ad- 
mirably the following points, which the author wishes 
to emphasize : 

1st. Popular disbelief in and distrust of the efforts 
made to teach more exact methods in catering. 

2d. Failure on the part of the teachers to bring 
their methods within the comprehension of the aver- 
age reader. 

3d. General ignorance of the nutritive value of 
food materials as purchased. 

4th. Common neglect of the element of waste in 
preparation and in assimilation. 

5th. The results tabulated furnish an illustration of 
one way in which the teaching may be made more 
practical. 



XI 

DIETARIES COSTING FROM TEN TO FIFTEEN 
CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 

" The Golden Rule is let all men's dinners be according to 
their means." — Hayward. 

The business-man who frequently pays one dollar 
for his luncheon and two dollars for his dinner, and 
who knows that his own table costs him one hun- 
dred dollars a month for a family of three, receives 
with incredulity the statement that ten cents per 
person per day will give, anywhere in America within 
fifty miles of a railroad, suf^cient nutrition for a 
wholesome diet. 

The woman who has tried to cut down her ex- 
penses by saving in the food-material purchased 
sighs and shakes her head. Her dictum is frnal: " It 
cannot be done." 

And yet we know that it can and has been done ; 
that efificient life can be maintained in the case of 
many persons for this sum. It is the will to do it and 
the motive, which sustains the will, that is neces- 
sary. 

Appetite is largely a matter of habit and of mental 

98 



An examination of the same markets for the 
same kind of foodstuffs showed that in August, 
1910, the 15 and 25 cent per day per person 
dietary given on pages 109, no, 132, would 
cost 18 and 27 cents respectively. This accords 
with all other recent investigations, namely, 
that the really staple articles bought with 
time and care plus knowledge are not so 
greatly increased in cost. When the question 
is of the $1.00 a day dietary the cost to-day 
is increased to at least Si. 50 and it may easily 
go to $2.00. The common food materials like 
corn meal, rice, macaroni, dried fruits, flank 
and T bone, are not used. They are consid- 
ered too common and therefore "unclean." 

It was intended to recalculate the dietaries, 
but it seems not necessary in view of all the 
conditions revealed in recent investigations. 



DIETARIES COSTING TEN TO FIFTEEN CENTS 99 

orientation. The man who has his eyes fixed on a 
good for which he is wilHng to subordinate every- 
thing else can maintain health without the luxuries 
of the table. He finds that food which will serve him 
best, and is not tempted by that which is useless. 
Alas! how few have the knowledge, the strength of 
purpose, and the healthy body to enable them to do 
this. There is abundant testimony to the clearness 
of brain and strength of muscle gained by living 
" close to nature " on the perfected products of the 
soil. There is also abundant testimony as to failure 
in attempting to do this by persons without the will, 
the knowledge, or the physical stamina to succeed. 

There will, therefore, always be two parties: the 
one small and select, the other large and vociferous; 
the latter claiming that life at less than fifty cents per 
day for food is not worth living. 

It is just as impossible and just as unwise for a per- 
son drunken with beef and highly seasoned food to 
stop short and try to live on shredded wheat and 
milk, as for the toper to change his habits to total 
abstinence. Every cell in the body in either case 
calls out for its accustomed stimulant, and the strug- 
gle is more than suflficient to use up all the energy, 
which the body can develop. 

As a mere matter of scientific fact w'e must assert 
that, given a normal digestion w^ith the zi'ill to do the 
best thing for one's self, it is possible so to select and 



lOO THE COST OF FOOD 

prepare food that it need not cost over ten cents per 
person per day. 

To substantiate this, we offer the following facts: 

First, the staple diet of the world is made up of 
one or more cereals. These furnish an average of 
1600 calories per pound. Two pounds is ample for 
the needs of the workingman at a cost of three to five 
cents. Part of the cereal may be replaced by meat, 
fruit, sugar, milk, and some vegetables, costing, in all, 
six to seven cents; this will lessen the quantity of 
starchy food and increase fat and nitrogen. 

With ten kinds of cereals, ten other foods, and 
forty flavors, hundreds of combinations are possible 
if only any inventive skill were exercised in the pre- 
paration and serving. In this direction the women 
of America are singularly lacking. The same limited 
round of roast, baked, and boiled, is served with the 
same excess of crude flavor week after week, so that 
it is no wonder that variety is constantly called for — 
variety of badness it is, too, as a rule. 

If we could only apply the same sagacity and busi- 
ness acumen to the food-supply of the young en- 
gineer as we do to his mechanical training! 

But, alas! we have mind as well as matter to deal 
\nth. and, worse than all tradition, the fetish of the 
past. One person likes caraway-seeds, another will 
not eat cookies so flavored, and these small likes and 
dislikes are permitted to overbalance health. 



DlKlARll.S COSTING TKN To FIKTKKN ( KNTS lOI 

We take no warning from other animals and from 
plants, all of which fail of their best end when 
overfed. Nature does not make an exception in 
favor of man. The individual may thrive like a forced 
plant, but not so the race. In all the discussion of the 
infertility of the higher branches of the human race, 
how little attention is paid to the weakening effect of 
pampered appetite ! 

We are always asked to give a menu for the use of 
these simple foods. How^ is it possible when the 
flavor depends on a score of variables — time and de- 
gree of heat in the cooking, amount of w^ater, salt, 
and condiment added, combinations made, when 
acceptability depends quite as much on the way 
the prepared food is served, the company in which it 
is eaten, the temper of the individual at the time of 
eating, as on the food itself ? 

The object of this book is not so much to give in- 
formation as to stimulate research. A more effectual 
preparation of the food-supply must be secured by 
original research. 

Most of the work put upon food preparation at 
present is against rather than for health. '* Unfor- 
tunately the practice of cookery does not repose 
upon recognized principles, but on recipes, many of 
which are based upon flagrant error." * 

* ■' The Spirit of Cookery," p. 156. 



I02 TirE COST OF FOOD 

It is possible that one of the best evidences of a 
development of better " taste " and better ideals in 
art will be found in better furniture and pictures and 
less money spent in crude food. How can we be 
otherwise than materialistic so long as our food is so 
gross and handled in so repulsive a manner? Was 
there ever so barbarous a sight as the modern 
kitchen, with its red-hot range, its perspiring cooks, 
its slovenly maids, its ill-smelling cold storage? 

May I ask each reader to call up in his eye the 
picture which to him is most typical of that for which 
tlie word food stands? For the city dweller it may 
be a medley of half-clothed, dripping persons, greasy 
dishes and pails of refuse, to the presence of which 
attention is loudly called as one passes the basement 
windows of hotel or restaurant. The most vivid im- 
pression left after a half hour's passage along the 
streets of any down-town section will be that of 
burned fat, hot, steam-carried vapors of indescribable 
sorts. Even worse are the meat-shops, the windows 
displaying in all their repulsive nakedness the crea- 
tures which man kills for his own use — fish, flesh, 
and fowl; even barrels of potatoes, beets, and cab- 
bages, with remains of their recent contact with the 
soil, are not much improvement. What wonder that 
we try to forget the crude materials in French names, 
grotesque shapes, or excessive garnishing. What 
wonder that to be hungry is a rare sensation, that a 



DIETARIES COSTING TEN TO FIFTEEN CENTS IO3 

loathing for food is overcome only by wines and 
spices in good company! What wonder that any 
dark place is held to be good enough to perform the 
rites of transformation for such horrors! 

Even the fresh, juicy fruits with their tempting 
display of color are paraded in line with the clouds 
of street-dust, and stirred constantly by the ubiqui- 
tous feather duster. 

In the country the gross treatment of food follows 
city ways, and the universal pig evidences the waste 
and failure to provide satisfactory viands. 

All indications point to the low estimation in 
which food and its preparation is now held, in con- 
trast to the time when kings and statesmen were 
proud to have dishes named for them. Is it, then, 
a subject to be shunned? Is it, then, no matter for 
concern what manner of food is offered to the com- 
ing race? Has it no effect on the soul that its outer 
envelope is so vilely treated? A right point of view 
is essential to our discussion, and certain dogmatic 
statements may serve to orient us at the start in 
order that we may proceed on harmonious lines. 

Suppose we state it in the form of a creed: 

1. I believe that " man is what he eats "; i.e., that 
the kind of food going to make up the physical body 
reacts upon the nervous system, affecting mind and 
character. 

2. I believe that man is " the noblest work of 



104 THE COST OF FOOD 

God " only when he uses his body as a means of ex- 
pression of high ideals, and not as a means of grati- 
fying momentary desires. 

3. I beHeve that " he that ruleth his own spirit is 
greater than he that taketh a city "; to control one's 
appetite in view of the aims in life which one holds 
up to the inner vision; to so order one's life that one 
has a fair chance of attaining one's ideals is man's 
prerogative, and differentiates him from the beast 
of the field. 

4. I believe that man's efficiency in this world, if 
not his happiness in the next, is mainly due to the 
precautions he takes to use suitable food and to 
avoid dangerous combinations. 

5. I believe that " the duty that lies next " is the 
instruction of all the people in food values and the 
inculcation of a respect for the body and the ofifice of 
food as a means to an end, and that end — the highest 
duty of man. 

6. I believe that temperance in the use o'f food is 
even more essential than in anything else which 
tempts man's appetite. 

7. I believe that good food habits can be formed 
in childhood which will carry the man through life 
in as great a degree of safety as other good habits 
early formed may do. 

Self-control, self-limiting factors are not suffi- 
ciently taught. In the rage for freedom, for self-ex- 



DIETARIES COSTING TEN TO FIETEEN CENTS IO5 

pression, many are apt to include Nature's laws 
among the trammels to be thrown off. Such con- 
sider the unrestricted choice of food as freedom. 
The consequences of this freedom are wilfully laid to 
some other door. 

If this kind of rashness killed, it would not so much 
matter; but with philanthropic, sentimental helps at 
hand, life is prolonged to the misery of others, if not 
to the individual suffering. Appetite for liquor is 
guarded against; appetite for sweets, spices, and rich 
food is passed by in the nursery and in school as of 
no moment. The child must eat something, and so 
his crying brings the coveted tidbit of which he 
should never have known the taste. A cultivated 
taste in food is as much or more needed than a cul- 
tivated taste in art. Just as in furnishing a house it 
is not the money spent, but the good taste in the ar- 
rangement of the whole, as well as in the choice of 
the individual articles, so in food for the table it is 
not the amount of money spent, but the sort of ma- 
terial purchased and the way it is treated after it is 
purchased which determines the effectiveness of the 
expenditure. 

How shall we characterize that man wlio with a 
name to win, a prize to strive for, — it may be a for- 
tune or a reputation, it may be laboratory research or 
exploration, — deliberately cripples himself, imperils 
his usefulness if not his life, brings sadness and care 



io6 



THE COST OF FOOD 



into the lives of those he loves most, yet allows him- 
self to be allured by the pleasures of the palate, or 
even merely ignores the laws of health? 



TABLE IX 

The Thirteen Chief Foods considered as to their 
Nutritive and Economic Values 





4 
n 

^ 


c 

VL 


1^ 






S5' 


Nuts (peanuts, edible portion). 
Sugar (granulated) 




9-2 


25.8 


38.6 


24.4 
100 

74.6 
78.5 

79 

59.1 

'5-3 
5 

13.7 
12.9 


2560 
1857 
1655 
1645 
1630 
1630 
1590 
928 
388 
325 
32s 
290 
285 






12.9 
12.5 
12.7 

12.4 
13-2 

55 

87 

44-5 

60 


8.9 

"•3 
71 
7.8 

12 
1.8 
3.3 
•7 


2.2 
i.i 

•9 
•4 
1.8 

1-5 
4 
.1 

4 
•5 
•9 


Wheat flour (roller process). . . 




Rye flour 


.... 


Rice 




Legumes (dried) 




Meats (about) 


12 
30 
15 


Fish (fresh) 


Milk 




40 
25 


Fruit (apples, grapes, etc.) 


Wheat flour at 2 cents per p 


)ound 1 


urnishes 


3000 ( 


:alories 


for 3.( 


) cents. 


Cornmeal at 3 " " 


" 


" 


" 


" 


5'^ 


it 


Wheat flour at 4 " " 


" 


" 


" 


" 


" 7-5 


f " 


Rice at 5 " " 


" 


•' 


" 


tt 


" 9.^ 


\ " 


Potatoes at i " " 


" 


" 


" 


•' 


9 


it 


Legumes at 8 " " 


'• 


•* 


" 


X 


", »5 


(t 


Milk at 2 " 


" 


«• 


ii 


it 


•' 18 


" 


Potatoes at 2 " " 


" 


u 


(i 


it 


" 78 


«» 


Nuts (kernels) at 16 cents " 


" 


" 


i( 


" 


" »9 


it 


Cheese (American pale) at 14 


" 


" 


" 




" 20 


'• 


Fruit at 2 cents per pound 




•< 


t< 


'• 


" 21 


" 


Milk at 35 (7 cents a qt.) 




«( 


" 


" 


" 32 


" 


Beef (medium fat) at 15 cents ( 


xi% bone 


1 " 


<i 


" 


" 47 


" 


Beef (sirloin) at 25 cents per po 


und 


" 


" 


" 


" 69 


•» 


Eggs at 25 cents per dozen 




«t 


it 


" 


" IIS 


*• 



It is the boast of civilization that man has con- 
quered the forces of nature, harnessed the lightning, 
etc., but he has done it by learning the laws under 



DIETARIES COSTING TEN TO FIFTEEN CENTS lO/ 

which these forces work and adapting his machine to 
those laws, not by running counter to them. And 
yet we see an engineer who understands this full well 
violating every law which Nature has laid down for 
the guidance of man to efficient manhood. Be- 
cause he is not called upon to pay the penalty im- 
mediately, he professes to think there is none. 

So long do folk-lore and tradition persist after 
science has illuminated the page. 

To work up a dietary in any given case, begin with 
the quantities costing ten cents, and substitute from 
the tables, foods of equal physiologic value (so far as 
is known) up to the limit of money in hand. For 
instance : 



DIETARY A 

Cost. 

Cereals (dry) , lib 02 

Meats at 6 to 8c. per lb., ^ lb 04 

Vegetables at ic. per lb., 2 lbs 02 

Dried fruits at i6c. per lb., i oz 01 

Sugar, 3 oz„ etc 01 

.10 

DIETARY B 

Cost. 

Bread and other preferred cereals, J^ lb 06 

Meats, I lb 25 

Fresh vegetables, i lb 08 

Fresh frunt, i lb 08 

Sugar, 3 oz., etc 03 

.50 



I08 THE COST OF FOOD 

The nearer a vegetarian diet is approached, the 
easier will it be to furnish an inexpensive table, but 
the greater wisdom will be required in choosing both 
the food itself and the manner of preparation. For 
most of the poorer class, it is easier and wiser for the 
mother to go out two or three days in the week to 
earn money with which to supply meat, even if the 
children are left to themselves. This may seem rank 
heresy, but to choose wisely means more knowledge 
than the foreign mother possesses, confronted as she 
is by dozens of foods of which neither she nor her 
grandmother have had that experience which counts 
for knowledge. 

As a matter of practice, it may be interesting to 
see what could be furnished for ten cents by aid 
of vegetarian cook-books and native wit. Any cook- 
ing-class may discover some very appetizing dishes 
to bring down the cost of a fifty-cent menu. Two 
examples will be sufficient to show what possibilities 
lie in this direction. These were taken almost at ran- 
dom from a considerable number. The only con- 
trolling factor was that the dinner should include beef, 
since that meat formed the main dish in the 25-cent, 
50-cent and $1 dietaries, on pages 132, 141, and 142, 
in connection with which these are to be studied. 



DIETARIES COSTING TEX TO FIFTEEN CENTS IO9 

TABLE X 

Dietary No. 1 
for average family of six, i5 cents per person per day 



Lbs. 



Oz. 



Breakfast. 



Baking-powder biscuit 

Ham (.leanj — i 

Butter .... 

PoUioes i 2 

Milk for coffee 

Sugar for coffee 



Dinner. 



Beef-shank stew 

Potatoes 

Turnips 

Thickening 

Suet pudding: 

Beef-suet 

I qt. flour 

I cup molasses. . . . 

Soda, sweet sauce. 



Supper. 



Milk. I pint 

Bread (home-madeXand butter 
Slewed pears 



Totals: 
Breakfast. 

Dinner 

Supper.. . 



Tea, coffee, etc. 



Per person. 



•i 



Gms.l Cost, 



$0.10 
.025 



160 
60 



1360 



0.24 
.ot 

.02 



.02 
.01 



0-373 



0.03 
.10 
•045 



0-I75 

.312 

•373 

I 0-175 

; 0.86 

1 0.90 

\ -'5 



Grams. 



Prot. Fat. Carb 



72.2 

81.5 

.2 

16 

6 



^85 
, 8 
.4.5 
7-5 



66 



168 



537 



I 89.5 I105.3 



447 



138 

8 

60 



653 



Cal. 



428 
"3 
50 



319 
216 



557-7 

653* 
741 

557-7 



2491 
»"3 
333 
650 

132 

246 

4065 



I25I 
325 



2040 
2056 
463 



7048 



325 
2734 
902 



4965 
7048 
4021 



1951.7 16034 



2672 



453-6 grms = 1 lb. 

1 grm. proteid and carbohydrates = 4.1 calories. 

I grm. fat = 9.3 calories. 



no THE COST OF FOOD 

^TABLE XI 

Dietary No. 2 

for average family of six, i5 cents per person per day 





Lbs. 


1 
Oz. 


Gms. 


Cost. 


Grams. 


Cal. 




Prot. 


Fat. 


Carb. 


Breakfast. 
English monkey: 




7 

\ 

2 
2 
6 
8 

28 


200 

252 

14 

% 

160 
325 

824 
80 


^0.025 
.02 
.01 
.01 
.02 
.01 
•03 

.10 
.04 
.025 


19 

8 

14 
6 
6 


2-5 

10 

12 

19 

5 

7 


106 
12.6 

I 

225 
426 
161" 


1 






I tablespoon butter 




l-"34 


I cup cheese 










Milk for coffee 




95.5 
922.5 

2141 






Bread (home-made), 2 loaves, 
for toast and for dinner .... 




78 
2 
18 


8 

70 
16 


Butler 




65T 
734 


Doughnuts, i rule 










64 
8 
46 
16 (. 
16 i 




Dinner. 


0.290 

0.20 
.04 
.05 

•03 

•13 


151 

346 

20 

25 

6 

55 


149-5 

154 

142 

2 

1.6 

105.5 


940 

■378" 

41 

350 


5677 
3844 


Salt fat pork 




Potatoes 




1614 








Carrots... 




420 






2642 










Supper. 

Baking-powder griddle-cakes 
without egg, eaten with 
butter and sugar 


0.4S 

0.08 
.02 
.025 


446 

46.5 
9 
3 


405 

85.^ 
12 


769 

441 

IS 

ISO 


8922 

2794 
208 


Milk 




12 








627 












Totals; 

Breakfast 


0.125 

0.2Q0 

•45 
.125 


.58.5 

5°-5 ..-. 


97. 5 

149-5 
405 


^6 

940 
769 
606 


3629 
5677 










8922 


Supper 








3629 














Tea, coffee, etc 


0.865 
.04 


655. S 

109.3 


653 
Z08.6 


2315 
386 


18228 














0.905 
•151 















XII 

TWENTY-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 

A learned French judge, Henrion de Penesey, said to three of 
the most distinguished men of science, the mathematician La- 
place, the chemists Chaptol and Berthollet: "I regard the dis- 
covery of a dish a far more interesting event than the discovery 
of a star, for we have already stars enough, but we can never 
have too many dishes; and I shall not regard the sciences as 
sufficiently honored or adequately represented amongst us until 
I see a cook in the first class of the (French) Institute." 

Twenty-five cents per day per person may be con- 
sidered the cost of the wage-earner's dietary, since 
for an income of $800 to $1000 a year this means for 
the family of three or four adults and four children- 
equivalent to five inen as dietaries are reckoned — 
about $450, or 45 to 56 per cent of the total income. 
Statistics show this to be an average the world over. 
Nearly every family has one or more unproductive 
members, and too often some one needing care, so 
that the income must go as far as it can. The 
American wage-earner is not so far wrong in de- 
manding a liberal diet, but he lacks a knowledge of 

cost of nutritive units which would enable him to live 

III 



l\2 THE COST OF FOOD 

well on his means. He also allows his children to 
acquire habits of indulgence which are not only bad 
for him but for them. 

Several twenty-five cent dietaries are given with 
the conditions under which they were taken, and 
others may be found, especially in Bulletins 29, 32, 46, 
52, 55, 91, U. S. Experiment Stations. A study of 
these will give any one who desires to look into the 
subject a working basis. 

There are two common ways of taking a dietary: 
one, that of taking account of stock in the larder be- 
fore and after, and of all purchases made — the differ- 
ence and sum being the food used; the other, in ad- 
dition, requires estimation beforehand of what, for 
the given experiment, should be used and the check- 
ing up afterward of the excess or deficit. The latter 
was the method employed in the following problem 
given to the class in dietaries at the School of 
Housekeeping, Boston : After a study of the needs 
of the body in infancy, in school-life, and in active 
work, and after attempts were made to formulate a 
ten-cent dietary on scientific principles in order to 
secure a working basis, the class was required to 
" Make out a week's bill of fare which you yourselves 
ivill he unlling to eat, to cost not over 25 cents per per- 
son daily for raw food-material, and which shall 
furnish, in the week, the right proportion of the 
various food-substances." 



TWENTY-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON I13 

This is not given as a model bill of fare. Indeed, 
it is not possible in the present state of vicious habits 
of eating to give a model menu for as many as six- 
teen persons, especially women, and more especially 
women students and teachers, which would be ac- 
ceptable to them. 

The provider, after six months of experience, had 
learned what dishes would be tolerated and what 
would be refused, and governed herself accordingly. 
Only two of the victims found any of the meals 
wholly unsatisfactory, and all declared that they 
'* bought no more candy than usual," which was very 
gratifying in view of the much greater cost of their 
usual fare. 

Theoretical dietaries are often at fault in endeavor- 
ing to furnish at one meal an exact ratio of the 
various food-elements and an exact fraction of the 
total values. Circumstances govern this to a large 
extent. For instance, one morning after a hearty 
breakfast, the class under experiment went from one 
recitation to another, or with only a laboratory exer- 
cise all the morning. This day a light luncheon of 
easily digestible food was clearly called for if any 
work was to be undertaken in the afternoon. 
Another day the morning had been spent in a field- 
excursion to a spice-mill in a neighboring city in cold, 
wind\ weather. The luncheon on that day must 
clearly furnish nearly the usual dinner ration. Writ- 



114 THE COST OF FOOD 

ing up notes of a visit will not demand as much 
brain-energy as will a study-hour on a new subject. 

Again, a warm, muggy day indicates a lighter 
dinner than a clear, crisp one, while a cold morning 
calls for more butter, cocoa, or some food rich in fat. 

The menu should vary with the season. Even for 
an institution it should be considerably changed four 
times in the year. 

The following results agree very nearly with the 
estimates, showing how closely the student who 
planned the dietary had studied the daily routine and 
how accurately the teachers knew the quantities 
usually consumed. The estimates were made for a 
family of six and multiplied to suit the existing case. 
One or more were absent from some meals, so that 
in order to obtain from these figures an estimate of 
quantity for two persons, one-seventh of the amounts 
may be taken; for two hearty men, one-sixth. If for 
the typical family of the statistician, — father, mother, 
and four young children, — two-sevenths should give 
the approximate amount. Substitutes of equal food 
value may, of course, be used wherever preferred. 
Nearly every meat was consumed in larger quantities 
than estimated ; of rice and shredded wheat less was 
used. 

Doubtless the absence of some common dishes is 
due to the preparation of a " black list " in class a 
few days, before. 



TWENTY-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON II5 

MENUS FOR ONE WEEK FOR $0.25 A DAY PER PERSON 

[Family of sixteen — all women students; 2d and 3d week in 

April; Eastern city; season very backward.] 

Breakfast : Cream of wheat, baked beans, brown 
bread, cofifee, cocoa, or milk. 

Luncheon : Brown and white bread sandwiches, 
sliced oranges, cake, cocoa. 

Dinner: Soup, saltines, roast fowl (stufifed), 
hominy, cranberries, lettuce salad with 
French dressing, ice-cream, cake. 

Breakfast: One-half shredded-wheat biscuit, boiled 
Ggg, Graham muffins, apple sauce, 
cofifee, cocoa, or milk. 

Luncheon: Hashed chicken on toast, fried hominy, 
cookies, apricots, tea. 

Dinner: Soup with rice, rib-roll roast, Irish pota- 
toes (mashed), tomatoes, lemon jelly 
with bananas and nuts. 

Breakfast: One-half orange, wheat germ, creamed 
codfish, cornmeal mufhns, cofifee, 
cocoa, or milk. 

Luncheon: Vegetable soup, omelet, brown betty, 
cream. 

Dinner: Split-pea soup, veal roast, Irish potatoes, 
creamed onions, lettuce salad, saltines, 
cottage pudding, chocolate sauce. 

Breakfast: Germea, cream toast, bacon, baked 
apples, cofifee, cocoa, or milk. 



Il6 THE COST OF KOOJ) 

Luncheon: Irish stew with dumpUngs, fruit salad, 
cookies, cocoa. 

Dinner : Chicken soup, roast leg of mutton, pota- 
toes, beets, Norwegian dessert. 

Breakfast : One-half orange, vitos, hash, dry toast, 
coffee, cocoa, or milk. 

Luncheon: Creamed potatoes, sausage, raised rolls, 
nut cake, prunelles, tea. 

Dinner: Soup, chicken-and-veal pie, peas, orange 
salad, saltines, cracker pudding, cream. 

Breakfast : One-half orange, oatmeal, creamed dried 
beef, corn cake, cofifee, cocoa, or milk. 

Luncheon : Fish chowder, rice-and-mutton croquettes 
with tomato sauce, salted peanuts, 
dates. 

Dinner: Tomato soup, baked haddock, Holland- 
aise sauce, mashed potatoes, Lima 
beans, lettuce salad, saltines, suet pud- 
ding, lemon sauce. 

Breakfast: One-half orange, pettijohn, fish hash, 
date muffins, cofifee, cocoa, or milk. 

Luncheon: English monkey on toast, vegetable 
salad, baking-powder biscuit, choco- 
late. 

Dinner: Bean soup, Hamburg steak, baked pota- 
toes, carrots and peas, lettuce salad, 
saltines, chocolate' pudding with hard 
sauce. 



TWENTY-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON II7 



TABLE XII 

FOODSTUFFS ACTUALLY USED IN HOUSE EXPERIMENT 





Amount. 


Cost. 


Grams. 


Cal. 


Food Materials. 


Prot. 


Fat. 


Carb. 


Cereals. 

Oatmeal at 5 c. per pound 

Pettijohn at 13 c. per pound.. . . 
Wheat germs at 12 c. per pound.. 

Vitos at 12 c. per pound . . 

Cr. of wheat at 13 c. per pound... 

Shredded wheat at 10 c. per 

packasre .... ... 


9 oz. 
9 oz. 
9 oz. 
9 oz. 
9 oz. 

5J0Z. 
9 oz. 

lib. 

41b. 

3 dozen 7 

9 lbs. 2 oz. 

li dozen 

fqt. 

ilb. 
lib. 

2 lbs. 4^ oz. 

50Z. 

2j OZ. 

15 lbs. 9^ oz. 

5 oz. 

2 lbs. 10 oz. 

VWgal. 

27lbs. 4J0Z. 
4 lbs. loi oz. 

3 lbs. II oz. 

Jib. 

i4i oz. 

I lb. IS oz. 

144 lbs. 

gibs. 

7 lbs. 

3 lbs. 6 oz. 

4 lbs. 10 oz. 
9 lbs. I oz. 

xlb. 

^* ?K- 
3 lbs. 


$0.0312 

•073 
.067 
.067 
.073 

.0485 
.067 
.03 
-045 


41. 1 
21.3 
27 

37-5 
18 


17-5 
5.6 
5-1 
3-6 
5-1 

•4 
4.3 
2.7 

.6 


168.6 

198 

196.8 

192.3 

193.8 

105 
191 
357^8 
179 


1040 
953 
953 
950 
952 

447 


Ralston B. Food at 12 c. per lb.. 
Hominy at 3 c. per pound 


974 
1650 

815 






Fruits. 

Oranges at 18 c. per dozen 

Bananas at 12^ c. per dozen 

Apples at S1.50 per bushel 

Lemons at 20 c. per dozen 

Cranberries at 12 c. per qt 

Prunelles at 14 c. per pound 
(taken as apricots) 


0.52 

0.645 
.0625 
.27 
•25 
.09 

.07 

.105 

.114 

•0343 

.039 


246.5 

58.4 
5^1 
12.4 
10.3 
3 

10.6 
X5.9 
19.6 
3.6 
1-7 


44-9 

9-7 
2.5 
12.4 
7-3 
4-5 

2.2 

\1 


X782.3 

828.6 
91.2 

446.3 
86.8 
75.6 

I4i^5 
21a 
72Q.S 
108 
52.7 


8734 

3570 
421 

2007 
407 
321 

645 


Apricois at 14 c. per pound 


968 
3^07 


Raisins at 11 c. per pound 

D. currants at 25 c. per pound.. .. 


500 
233 


Sugar. 

Granulated at 5I c. per pound . . . 

Powdered at 5 lbs. for 83 c 

I,iirrip af -J 0. per pound 


1.6798 

0.8732 
.0206 
.1837 
.0937 


140 


69 


2768 

7064.9 

142 
1190 
1129 


12478 

29004 
581 






4882 


5 c. molasses at 30 c. per gallon. . 


39 




4644 


Flour and Crackers. 

Bread at $4.80 per barrel 

Pastry at $4.75 per barrel 

(!ornmeal at 2 c. per pound 

Graham meal at 3 c. per pound . . 
Boston crackers at 8 c. per pound 
Saliines at 15 c. per pound 


1. 1713 

0.6692 

.1127 

•0731 
.0225 
.0725 
.2906 


39 

1246.3 
259-5 
153-7 
45 
45 
87 


T35.8 
23-2 
3^-7 
7.4 
24.8 
104 


9525^9 

9337-8 
1540.3 
I259^9 
242 . 5 
29T.8 
573 


391 " 

451 14 
7613 
6102 

1708 
3684 


Meats and Fish. 

Fowl at 13 c. per pound 

Beef shank at 5 c. per pound 

Rib roll at \t\ c. " " 

Ham, steak at ix c. per pound . . 
Loin of veal at 13 c. per pound.. . 
Letr of lamb at 13 c. " 

Bacon at 15 c. per pound 

Salt pork at 10 c, per pound 

Sausage at 12 c. *' " 


1.2406 

1.8367 

•45 
.87^ 

.60x2 
I. 17812 
•15 
•0453 
•24 


1836 

882.6 
391-2 
620.2 
290.8 
354 
652.7 
59.8 
3-9 
117.7 


428 

216 

429.4 

195-9 

191.9 

578^3 

280 

176.9 

400.4 


13245 
9-9 


65474 

10947 
3645 
7455 
3014 
3211 
7884 
2849 
1663 
4343 



ii8 



THE COST OF FOOD 



TABLE y^U— Continued 

FOODSTUFFS ACTUALLY USED IN HOUSE EXPERIMENT 



Food Materials. 


Amount. 


Cost. 


Prot. 


Gram 
Fat. 


s. 
Carb. 


Cal. 


Meats and /^/j/«— Continued. 

Dried beef at 30 c. per pound . . . 
Haddock at 6 c. per pound.. .. 

Fresh cod at 6 c. " " 

Salt cod at 12 c. " " 


li lbs.. 
8 " 

4 " 
14I oz. 

27 lbs. 3^ oz 
2 cans 

13J0Z, 
2 lbs. 4i oi. 
2 lbs. 8i oz 
2qt. = 3^1bs. 

8} oz. 
15 heads 

111 oz. 

12 lbs.4joz. 
j 84 7 lbs. i 
1 38i qt. \ 
\ 3ii lbs. t 

( ifqt. s 

5 dozen 

I lb. It oz. 
9 oz. 

6 oz. 
•50Z. 
6J0Z. 

7 oz. 
ilb. 
ipt. 
glass 

1 box 2 oz.) 
x\ cake 

\ bottle 

\ cup (2 oz.) 

2j -ups 

2 lbs. ^\ oz 

8J oz. 


■71 


136.5 
288.0 

193.4 
77-9 


35.6 
7.2 
2.2 
1.6 




877 
1320 
813 
490 


Vegetables. 

Potatoes at 80 c. per bushel 

Tomatoes at 8| c. per can 


6.9197 

0.549 
• 1733 
•45 
.045 
.0617 
.0084 
.0725 
.12 
.0136 

t.25 
.0617 


4062 

271.2 

25 

63.5 
130.8 

33.3 

16 

20.6 
2.6 
34 
75 


3296 

12.3 
4 

3.5 
8.5 
2.7 
2 

3-4 
'•5 
.2 
6.7 
6 


9 9 

2268.6 
83.4 
172.8 
372.3 
131.2 
76.5 
102 
122 
15.9 

4i 


4841 1 

11227 
484 
999 
2112 
467 
365 
5" 
595 
68 

551 
"75 


Split pease at 6 c. per quart 

Lima beans (dry) at 7 J c. per lb. . 

Cai rois at 3 c. a pound 

Onions (10=1 qt.) at 60 c. per peck 

Beets at 6 c. per quart 

Turnip at 2.^^ c. per pound 

Lettuce at 3 heads for 25 c 

Pea-beans at ^\ c. per pound 


Butter, etc. 

Butter at 25 c. per pound 

Milk at 6 c. per qt. (1 qt.=2.2 lbs.) 

Cream at 25 c. p.qt.(i qt.=2.i lbs.) 
Eggs at 17 c. per dozen (1=2 oz.) 


2.8043 

3.0701 
2.31 

•4375 

.85 


681 

55.5 
1266 

42.7 
404.8 


51 

4723 
1534.7 

316.3 
316.3 


.3637 

1918.4 
76.9 

1994 

186 
33 


18043 

44217 
27528 

3435 
4762 


Nuts. 

Peanuts (shelled) at 8 c. per lb.. . 
Walnuts " at 44 c. per lb .. 


6.6676 

0.135 
•2475 


.767 

197. 1 
42 


6889 

294 
163.5 


79941 
^856 


Chocolate at 38 c. per pound 

Cocoa (Bensdorf) at 58 c. per lb.. 
Lard at 10 c. per pound . 


0.3825 

0.1425 
.1812 

.0421 

.0218 

•05 

•3125 

.15 

0.9002 

o.io 

.025 

:J^3 

.0541 
.0223 
.2018 


239 

27.6 
30.6 

9 

43-5 


457 

82.3 
40.9 
191 

157 

1006 


219 

51-3 
53.4 

104 


6176 

1073 
725 

1780 

1549 
685 

4473 


Beef-suet at 5 c. per pound 

Cheese at 15 c. per pound 

Olive oil at S2.50 per gallon 

Currant jelly at 30 c. per glass.. . 

Gelatine at 10 c. per box 

Yeast cake at 2 c. each 

(Heinz) catsup at 20 c. per bottle. 

Vanilla at 4 oz. bottle for 57 c 

Vinegar at 10 c. per quart 

Salt at 18 c. for 20 pounds 

Baking-powder at $1.90 for 5 lbs.. 


no 


10285 



TWEXTY-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON I I9 
TABLE Xll— Continued 

FOODSTUFFS ACTUALLY USED IN HOUSE EXPERIMENT 



Food Materials. 




/^ . 


Grams. 


Cal. 




Prot. 


Fat. 


Carb. 




i oz. !$o.or 

OZ< ! .0125 
1 OZ. j .0125 


9082 


12221 


33285 




Mustard at 40 c. per pound 

Red pepper and paprica 

White and black pepper 




Celery-salt at 9 c. per bottle 

Poultry-dressing at 40 c. per lb .. 


i oz. 
1 oz. 

USfcups) 


'".oxhy 






0.9370 






lalbs. ■'- 
I oz. .05 

.77 




Totals -*- 99 


288653 








Meals = 397 
297 -1- 3 = 99 number of days 


$0,238 


92 


>23 


336 


2915 



The same quantity and quality of food will cost, 
in a small family, twenty-eight to thirty cents. From 
a paper written by the author for the Report of the 
State Board of Health, New Jersey, 1893, entitled, 
** Dietaries for Wage-earners and Their Families," 
the following dietaries and remarks are quoted: 

" In the accompanying tables will be found the 
actual weights of a week's food for four families, se- 
lected from among some fifty, which have been care- 
fully gathered in the past year. These four were 
chosen for the several points they illustrate, as well 
as for the fact that they each closely approximate 
the estimated normal, in spite of the great variety. 
The family chosen for our type consists of the father, 



I20 



THE COST OF FOOD 
TABLE XIII 



No. 1 


Lbs. 
Bought. 


Total 
lbs. 


Cost. 


Total 
Cott. 


Beef (stew) 


4.71 
4.71 
314 
2.35 
1.57 
4.71 




•345 
• 565 
•376 
.188 
.188 
.280 




Beef (roast) 






Beef (corned) 












Sausage 

Haddock 












Total 




21.19 




1.942 


Butter 


4.70 


.940 








Total 




4.70 




.940 


Efifcfs 


2.50 
18.00 


• 520 
.690 


Milk 










Total 




20.50 






Flour 


14.33 

4.70 

.78 

1-57 


.420 
.230 
.050 
.080 




Oatmeal 






Barley 






Corn-starch 












Total 




21.38 




.780 




iq.23 

2.35 


•550 
.280 














Total 




21.58 




.830 


Cabbage 


2.15 
1.27 
2.20 
•53 
5-59 


.080' 
.030 
.040 
.010 
.310 


Oninns .... ...>......... 






Tnrnins .... ........ 






Carrots .« ........ 


















Total . 


•39 


11.74 




.470 


Tea 


.310 








Total 




.39 




.310 








Total 





101.48 




$6,482 









TWENTY-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 121 



TABLE Xlll—Coniinufd 



No. 2 


Lbs.Bought 


Total lbs. 


Cost. 


Total Cost. 


Beefsteak 


I.51 
1.92 
1.92 
1.20 
5.76 
2.02 
1.44 
.96 




.336 
.190 
.326 
.096 
.576 
.360 
.144 
.130 




Beef 






Veal 






Sheep's liver 






Ham 






Chicken 






Codfish 






Mackerel 












Total 




16.73 




2.168 




1.92 
1.20 
1.02 
2.16 


.268 
.120 
.336 
.096 




Lard 






Butter 






Pies 












Total 


1.44 

8.04 

.47 


6.30 




.820 


Eggs 

Milk 


.288 

.307 
.048 









Beans 












Total 




9-95 




.643 




5.76 
1.44 
.48 
1.92 
3.84 


.192 
.048 
.024 
.096 
.307 


Oatmeal 






Barley 






Hominy 






Rice 












Total 




13.44 




.667 


W. potatoes 


13.44 
3.36 
1.44 
4.80 


.192 
.048 
.072 
.240 


S. potatoes 






Bread 






Sugar 










Total 




18.24 




.552 


Cabbage 

Turnips.-.. 


.84 
3.00 
1.80 


.038 
.048 
.096 














5.64 




Total 




.182 


Unknown sundries 




1. 100 












Total 




1. 100 










Total 


74.10 i 


$6.12 



122 



THE COST OF FOOD 
TABLE XIU— Continued 



No. 3 



Beef (neck and shin). 
Porterhouse steak. . . 

Round steak 

Roast rib 

Mutton chop 

Ham 

Bologna sausage.... 
Round veal 



Total , 



Lard. . 
Butter. 
Cream. 
Pies... 



Total, 



Eggs.., 
Milk... 
Cheese 



Total. 



Flour. . . . 
Total 



Potatoes 

Bread 

Buns 

Ginger cakes. 

Sirup 

Sugar 



Total 



Cabbage 

Green onions 

Dry onions 

Asparagus 

Tomatoes (canned). 

Cucumbers 

Corn (canned) 

Green peas 



Total. 



Lbs. 
Bought. 



.64 

2.56 

.86 

.64 



2.88 

9-38 

.64 



15.68 



18.00 

8.90 

.80 

.32 

.96 

6.00 



1.60 
.12 
.80 
1.08 
1. 14 
1.28 
8.38 
1.74 



Total 
lbs. 



10.880 



4.700 



12.900 



15.680 



34.980 



8.598 



Cost. 



Total 
Cost. 



128 
150 
096 
320 
.080 
[90 
.030 
.096 



,080 
,820 
,070 
.064 



310 
270 
100 



380 



1.092 



1.034 



,680 



.380 



.350 
.'. 450 
^ 076 
.032 
.060 
.370 



1-338 



.089 
.060 
.038 
.096 
.060 
.064 
.076 
.096 



579 



TWENTY-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 1 23 



TABLE XIU— Continued 



No. Z— Continued 



I Lbs. I Total 
I Bought. I lbs. 



Apples 

Bananas 

Sira wherries. 

Rhubarb 

Raisins 

Coflfee 

Tea 

Chocolate . . . 

Catsup 

Ginger 



Total 
Total 



1.92 
.84 
1.28 
1.28 
.64 
•32 
.16 



Cost. 



096 
096 
147 
030 
060 
220 
160 

045 
060 
030 



9.320 



96.758 



Total 
Cost. 



.944 
$6.05 



No. 4 



Round steak 

Porterhouse steak. 
Boiled ham 



Total 
Bacon. . . . 
Salt pork 

Butter 

Cream. . . 



Total.. 

Eggs 

Milk 

Beans (dry). 



Total. 

Flour 

Oatmeal. . 



Total 
Potatoes. 
Sugar 



Total 

Dry onions.. . 
Corn (canned) 



2.60 

3-90 
1.30 



.72 

.65 

2.60 

2.92 



1.95 

19.06 

1.27 



12.74 
1.30 



18.20 
^.20 



7.80 



6.89 



22.28 



14.04 



I 1.95 
I 1.69 



23.40 



Total. 
Bananas. 

Cofifee 

Tea 



3.90 
.65 
.32 



Total. 
Total . 



3-64 



4.87 



82.92 



260 
620 
390 



130 
078 
780 
270 



1.270 



1.258 



200 

540 
060! 



360 
060 



360 
310 



130 
190 



190 
230 
190 



800 



,420 



.670 



.320 



.610 

I5.348 



124 THE COST OF FOOD 

mother, and four children under ten years or two 
under thirteen, the food required being that of three 
grown persons for seven days, or of one person for 
twenty-one days; hence, to find the amount and cost 
for one person, the figures may be divided by twenty- 
one. 

Two of the famihes lived in Philadelphia and two 
in Chicago. Two of the dietaries were taken in the 
winter, when fruit and vegetables were scarce, and 
two in the spring, when they were plenty. 

In No. 4 the man was away from dinners, and al- 
though due allowance was made in the calculations, 
it is probable that the lower amount of meat in this 
dietary was largely due to this fact. Also, there were 
bought in this week no spices or other condiments. 

The waste was little or nothing in either of these 
famihes, the house-mother being intelligent and 
painstaking in each case, and in two cases advantage 
was taken of the large market. 

Besides Table XIII, showing in detail the amounts 
and cost of each article, an average has been made up 
and shown in Table XIV. This will give a basis of 
comparison for those who have either a less or a more 
expensive market, or who raise a part of their vege- 
tables. 

In Table XV is given the relative cost of the food- 
substances in per cents. This shows the wide varia- 



tion possible in order to obtain substantially the same 
results. 

Table XVI shows the number of pounds of food 
purchased per day per person, and the cost per pound 
of this food, as well as the cost per day per person. 

No. 3 is perhaps the best dietary in its variety, its 
full food value, and in the right proportion of the es- 
sential elements. The meat is not excessive, al- 
though a little higher than the generally conceded 
proportion. 

As to the cost of this quantity of nutritive sub- 
stances, "we can only say that the average of these 
families is 28.6 cents a day a person, or $2 a week. 
While it is true that a wise woman and a skilful cook 
may make this cost less, yet from the best evidence 
at hand this sum seems a very good average of what 
good living may be obtained for in most parts of the 
United States." 

TABLE XIV 

ESTIMATED AMOUNT AND COST OF ONE WEEK's PROVISIONS, AN 
AVERAGE DEDUCED FROM THE FOREGOING TABLES 

[The family numbering two adults and four children under 

ten years.] 

Meat 14.15 pounds, at 11.4 cents a pound |j.6i 



Milk, 7 quarts »3.87 " " 3.2 

E^KS, 3 dozen 2.50 " "13.0 

Butter a. 71 " "26.4 

Flour and cereals 16.00 " *' 3.5 

Vegetables and fruits 28.70 " " 1.27 

Sugar 4.5 " " 6 

Sundries unclassified— Tea, coffee, pies, cakes, etc., etc 1,73 

$5.99 



.44 

•33 
•72 
.56 
.33 

.27 



126 THE COST OF FOOD 



TABLE XV 

RELATIVE COST OF THE DIFFERENT FOOD-SUBSTANCES 

No, I. No. 2. No. 3. No. 4. 

It- 35 per cent. 18 per cent. 24 per cent* 

130 " 17-0 " 24 " 

10. o " 12.0 " le " 



Fats 


30 P 

15.0 

19.0 


Eggs and milk... 
IJeans and cheese 
Total animal 
substance ..64 


Grains 

Vegetables 

Fruits 

Sugar, tea, coffee, 
etc 


13 
15.0 

9.0 


Vegetable 
substance.. 36 


Total 


100.00 



58 



12.0 14 " 8.0 

8.0 " 15.00 " 12.0 

7.00 *• 3.0 



TABLE XVI 

No. I. No. 2. No. 3. No. 4. 

Pounds per day per person 4.8 3.5 4.6 3.9 

Cost (cents) per pound 6.4 8.0 6.2 6.4 

Cost (cents) per person per day 31.0 29.0 29.0 25.4 

Froi^;! " Food as a Factor in Student-life " are 
taken examples of six months' accurate records 
(Table XVII), and of the daily accounts which 
enabled them to be so successfully carried out 
(Tables XVIII and XIX): 

Several significant and interesting facts are shown 
by an examination of Table XX, a comparison of a 
wholesome and sufficient dietary of a school in In- 
diana, where 600 students were boarded at $1.40 per 
week, with that of the University of Chicago, where 
106 students were boarded at $3.50 per week. One 
source of advantage on the side of the school is that 
a much larger number of persons are fed and certain 
expenses are proportionately reduced. In the second 



TWEXTV-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 127 



TABLE XVII 

SUMMARY OF FOOD, MATERIALS, COST, AND COMPOSITION, AT KELLY 
HALL, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO, OCT. I, 1893, TO APRIL I, 1894 





Total 
Pounds. 


Cost. 


Percent 
Waste. 


Proteid 
net. 


Fat 
net. 


Carb. 
net. 


Beef .... 


10260 

9110 

2277 

39179 

14779 

21399 

12082 

2143 

390 


$77« 19 
734 79 
249 21 

2015 53 
615 62 
36506 
3^5 03 
187 19 
100 38 


30 
20 

7 



22 
12.5 


1 165 
1027 
367 „ 

1363-3 
281. 1 
107 

37.8 


1033 

774 

453-6 

379'. -3 

198.2 

51.2 

5-7 

'•3 

54-2 




Other fresh meats ............ 








Milk, butter, eggs, sugar, etc.. 

Grains 

Potatoes and vegetables 

Fresh fruit ... 


4997-9 
9374 
2764 
1536 
1139-1 
141. 3 


Dried " 


Cakes, etc 




Coffee tea 


119232- 


$5355 <» 
147 17 
498 25 




5689.1 


5365-5 


1995^-3 


Sundries and unclassified gro- 
ceries 
















6000 42 





These figures divided by the number of days ^\t& per person per day. 





Pounds 


Cost. 


Proteid, 
Grams. 


Fat, 
Grams. 


Carb., 
Grams. 


Calories 




5 


$25 


T26 

J08 


131 
102 


402 
381 


3383 
2953 


Nutrients remainingafter allow- 
ance for actual wastes . ... 









place, very little service beside student help is fur- 
nished at the school, and a large item of expense is 
thus removed. Another difference is seen in the sub- 
stitution at the school of cheaper foods, such as 
cereals, vegetables, sirup, and butterine, for meat, 
milk, cream, fruits, and other more expensive foods, 
though the actual amount of nourishment furnished 
was practically the same in both cases. 

The ultra-hygienist will at once exclaim over the 
pork products allowed in some of the quoted die- 
taries, but man has not yet discovered any food 



128 



THE COST OP FOOD 



TABLE XVIII 

ONE day's food, march 17, AT KELLY HALL, UNIVERSITY OF 
CHICAGO, CALCULATED TO SHOW THE AMOUNTS AND PROPOR- 
TIONS OF THE VARIOUS CONSTITUENTS AND THEIR COMPARISON 
WITH THE AVERAGE FOR SIX MONTHS 



Lbs. 



50 
90 
45 

4 
77 

3 
J 92 
J3 
55 
15 

6 

9 
50 

7.2 

4^ 
26 



657.2 
76 



581.2 



Stew and cold meat 

White potatoes 

Sweet potatoes 

Dried beef 

Flour and grain 

Tapioca 

Milk 

Cream 

Butter 

Sugar 

Prunes 

Oranges, less so% waste. 
Bananas, " 50% " 

fS«^- 

Lamb 

Turkey 

Steak - 



(Less turkey, lamb, and 
bread left over) 



Divided by 130 ,. 

Per person, nutrients. 



Daily average for the 6 
months, nutrients 



c u 
So 



1.8 
1-5 

34 

"•5 
1-3 
3-5 
3 



3-5 

4.85 
12.5 
20 
19 
15 






8 
.2 
•4 

7-5 



83 



5^2 
<J )3 rt 

PU 



19. 1 
26 



70 

83 

4.7 

3 
•5 
96.5 
65 
II 
19.7 






10.5 

1.6 

.7 

1.4 

8.9 



40.4 
.310 

Gms. 

126.5 



Sc 



6.8 
•4 
•3 


1:1 

12.5 


.2 




1-3 

.9 

8.2 


6.2 


5 
2.1 


»-3 

3-1 


48.3 


38.68 


7-9 


2.06 



£ji C 



36 . 62 

.281 

Gms. 
'M.7 



17.2 
II. 7 

53-9 
2.5 
9.0 

•4 

14.5 
4.0 



119. o 
23.6 



95.4 
•733 

Gms. 
332.0 

38X 



2946 
2937 



which, for the money, gives the combination of 
flavor and nutritive value of well-cooked ham, bacon, 
and salt pork. Like every other food-substance, its 
source and handling must be satisfactory; but the 
author firmly believes that there is to-day more 
danger from the use of milk than from the use of 
pork products. 



TWENTY-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 1 29 

The method of keeping daily accounts for the pur- 
pose of checking the cost is shown in the following 
table: 

TABLE XIX 

SATURDAY, MARCH 1 7 

Constants $13 51 

Breakfast : 

I bunch bananas $1 25 

2.5 dozen oranges (K.) 30 

5 lbs. farinose 22 

Fried potatoes 00 

6 dozen eggs, scrambled (B. and K.). i 08 
Beef, frizzled (F.) 00 

15 lbs. potatoes (F.) 19 

3 04 

Luncheon : 

Irish stew (F.) $0 00 

Meat in brown gravy (B. and K.) 00 

16 loaf cakes i 28 

60 lbs. sweet potatoes, baked i 00 

Fruit sauce 00 

2 28 

Dinner : 

9 lbs. potatoes for soup $0 12 

26" turkey, roast (F.) 260 

14" steak (B.) 196 

41'* lamb, boiled (K.) 348 

50" potatoes 63 

3 " boiled hominy 06 

Tapioca pudding (K. and B.) 60 

Lemon sherbet (F.) 80 

Watercress 25 

10 53 

Total for the day $29 36 

If the quantity used is kept down to five or six per 
cent of the total meat and used chiefly in the late 
winter and spring, when the appetite begins to need 
stronger flavors, it will not harm the majority of 



130 



THE COST OF FOOD 



TABLE XX 

COMPARISON OF A SCHOOL DIETARY WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF 
'CHICAGO DIETARY 



Beef 

Other meats 

Fish 

Flour and grain .. . 

Potatoes 

Vegetables (other than pota- 
toes) 

Beans . . . 

Milk 

Cream 

Sugar 

Sirup 

Butter 

Butterine 

Dried fruits 

Fresh " } 

Canned " j( ' 

Sundries 

Tea, coffee 

Cocoa, chocolate 

Eggs and cheese 

Unclassified groceries 



Quantity per Person 
per Day. 



Lbs. 
Indiana. 

.476 



.119 

.785 
1.085 

.490 

.057 
.666 



.135 
095 



.119 
.171 

•259 



.026 



■095 



Lbs. 
Chicago. 

.442 
.401 
• 052 

•437 
.680 



.219 
.015 
1.295 
. 120 
.140 
.017 
.089 
.014 
.ogo 

508 

022 



006 
043 



Percentage of Total 
Cost of EachArticle. 



Percent 
Indiana. 



.17 



.067 
.125 
.090 

■05 

.008 

•073 



.056 
.017 



•134 
057 

.070 



.047 



036 



Per cent 
Chicago. 

.128 
.141 
.022 
•TO3 
.036 

.024 
.002 
.108 
.041 
.029 
.006 
.103 
.Oil 
.031 

.052 

.013 
•025 
.013 
.029 

.083 



About 38 per cent of the Chicago Dietary is high-class food; 62 
per cent of 25 cents = 15.5 cents, a price for which common food 
materials may be had. 



healthy persons. Those with deHcate digestions will 
avoid these products along with many other things. 

Butterine and oleomargarine will also come in for 
a share of condemnation. It is one of the greatest 
legislative sins of this country that the diet in so 
many State institutions is restricted and made less 



TWEXTV-FIVE CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON I3I 

eflfective by the prohibition of the animal fats which 
can be supplied at less cost and in better condition 
than the third- or fourth-rate quality of butter which 
is made to take its place. 

In the low-cost dietaries, dried fruits must be made 
to take the place in a measure of the more expensive 
green garden vegetables. Tlie former can be fur- 
nished for so small a cost that there is no excuse for 
their absence. 

• Where there is a large family to be fed, a much 
better dietary can be made if the special preferences 
of members are considered alternately ; also if unex- 
pected variations occur. Curiosity will be stimulated, 
and curiosity is one of the best appetisers. 

Table XXI is to be studied in connection with 
Tables X, XI, XXI, XXII, XXIII and XXIV. It 
may be of assistance to some beginners in dietary 
studies to get a bird's-eye view, as it were, of the 
main facts. The following general statements are 
made for this purpose ; they are not accurate scientific 
calculations. 

In order to secure the necessary fat for the day, 
i lb. of lard, very fat salt pork, suet, butter, or oleo- 
margarine will, approximately, serve. Of shelled wal- 
nuts, peanut butter, chocolate, olive oil, bacon and 
flank of mutton, 1 lb. will be required. While one 
pound will be needed of ordinary fat meats, sausage, 
ham (if the fat is eaten), of cheese, and doughnuts. 



13^ 



THE COST OF FOOD 



Of most Other foods larger amounts 2, 4, or 6 lbs., 
will be required, so that they cannot be classed as 
especially fat foods. 

TABLE XXI 

D I ETA R Y No. 3 
FOR AVERAGE FAMILY OF SIX, 25 CENTS PER PERSON PER DAY 





Cost. 


Grams. 


Cal. 




Prot. 


Fat. 


Carb. 


Breakfast, 
Veal hash 


$0.34 
.07 
.025 
.045 


153 
64 

6 * 


129 

59 
36 

7 


136 
463 

233 


2385 

2712 

335 

1018 


Corn bread •• 


Butter • .... 


Coffee, milk, and sugar 




$0,480 


223 


231 


832 


6450 


Dinner. 
Mock duck 












Beefsteak, 3 lbs 


$0,495 
.04 
.02 
.025 
.115 

$0,695 


203 

6 
8 

9.8 
45 

271.8 


298 
1.2 

•4 
24 
50 

373-6 


115 
15 
68 
54 

177 


4080 

97 

315 

494 

1375 


Baked cauliflower 




Bread and butter 


TaDioca nuddinc^ 






429 


6361 


Supper. 
Omelette 6 ecirs 


$0.10 
.10 
.02 
.06 
.015 


48 
72 

4 


42 
39 
24 

5 


29 

447 

"96" 
120 


803 
2491 
223 
470 
492 


Baking-powder biscuit 

Butter 


Stewed nears 2 lbs .... .... 


Siiflrar. ....... ... ........ 










$0,295 


124 


no 


692 


4479 


6) 


$1,470 


618.8 


714.6 


1953 


17290 




$0,245 


103. 1 


119.1 


325 


2882 







For the day's ration of carbohydrates no food 
quantity less than i lb. will serve, viz., sugar, candy, 



TWKNTV-llVi: e'KXTS I'KK DAV PER PERSON I33 

rice, li of rye, wheat, and corn flour, pearled barley, 
shredded wheat, crackers, dates and raisins, stoned 
prunes and macaroni, i^ lbs. of figs, bread, and 
legumes. While of fresh beans, bananas, and pota- 
toes, 4 to 5 lbs. will be needed. For the day's ration 
of nitrogenous food, i lb. of peanut butter or of soya 
bean will probably serve, also a variety of dried bone- 
less codfish, but at least li to ij lbs. of round of beef 
and other meats, canned salmon, cheese, shelled nuts, 
and dried legumes will be needed if one article only 
IS made to furnish the desired quantity. 

Therefore, it will be seen that mixtures of foods 
rich in each constituent must be made in order to 
make a suitable diet: \ lb. butter at 7 cents, ij lbs. 
of shredded wheat at 15 cents, ij lbs. lean meat of 
chicken at 40 cents, makes 62 cents; the cost of a 
day's sustenance. 

A food is hardly a cheap food if the daily allow- 
ance of 3000 calories costs over 15 cents, or if it can- 
not be so combined that the total cost is under 20 
cents; i lb. eggs at 12 cents, i^ lbs. wheat flour at 
3 cents meets these conditions. 



XIII 

FORTY TO FIFTY CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 

" Its character, however, was that it was in season; that it was 
up to its time; that it was in the spirit of the age; that there was 
no perruque in its composition, no trace of the wisdom of our 
ancestors in a single dish. Every meat presented its own nat- 
ural aroma, every vegetable its own shade of color." — Lady Mor- 
gan's sketch of a dinner by Careme at the Baron Rothschild's villa. 

A GOOD way to keep the run of a family dietary is 
to determine the necessary quantities of the articles of 
daily and weekly consumption. These should give § 
the quantity needed at ^ the total cost, that is, at ten 
to fifteen cents ; then add the variety in the variables 
which should not all be " hearty " the same meal; for 
instance, peas, macaroni, and custard. Sweet des- 
sert is not needed after beets and fried bananas 
served as vegetables. 

To the person making out the bill of fare, the name 
of the food should bring to mind the percentage com- 
position as well as the shape, color, and flavor. 

With an income of $3000 or $3500 per year a 

family of five spending 25 per cent of it on food and 

having occasional guests, as all families should, must 

plan to spend only about forty cents per day per per- 

134 



FORTY TO FIFTY CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 1 35 

son. This means about $2 per day for the family, or 
$730 per year, with $75 margin for guests and extras. 

This can only be done, without the family knowing; 
that they are in any way res'tricted, by the exercise 
of care and thought, and by a careful watching of 
the markets by the provider. Food purchased in its 
season, when it is cheap because it is abundant, and a 
judicious treatment of inexpensive foods, with small 
amounts only of the dearer ones, will give a surpris- 
ingly good bill of fare. 

Every thoughtful person must have wondered why 
it is that a table dlwte dinner can be served so cheaply. 
It is a common experience to enjoy a well-cooked, 
well-served six-course dinner for fifty or sixty cents, 
whereas if one orders, a la carte, even four courses, 
it is likely to be nearly three times as much. One 
reason for the satisfied feeling with which one not 
only leaves the table but passes the evening is that 
the chefs at the restaurants famous for their table 
dlwte dinners know how to blend flavors and con- 
sistency so as to get the fullest result; each dish is 
the complement or the background of the next. 
Again, the condiments and sauces are of the savory 
and not of the heavy, irritating kind, which means 
that the cooking is French rather than American. 
The quantities served are just enough and not too 
much; therefore, nothing is wasted. No allowance 
is made for that setting to one side the barely 



136 THE COST OF FOOD 

tasted dish which is so frequently seen, and which has 
been referred to as so demoralizing. Just this same 
care must be given by the mistress or housekeeper 
to insure living on forty cents a day. It needs only 
a superficial acquaintance with modern kitchens and 
cooks to explain why this figure is so seldom held to. 

In order to bring out the principles upon which any 
scientific study of costs must be founded, the four 
special dietaries on pages 109, 1 10, 132, 141, are to be 
compared, article by article. The same general plan 
runs through the four. Beef products form the piece 
de resistance for the dinner. In all cases bread, butter, 
milk, sugar, and coffee are given, but the quantities 
vary somewhat, especially those of bread, butter, and 
milk. 

To show more clearly the relation between quanti- 
ties of staple food materials furnished at different 
prices, Table XXII has been prepared. 

It will be seen at a glance that the number of 
ounces of meat and eggs decreases as the price of the 
day's food decreases. The reverse is true in the case 
of cereals and potatoes, with slight variations. For 
7.3 cents, even under the most favorable circum- 
stances of prices and buying, the fat supplied must 
come from the meat, and must be all used. Bread 
and potatoes must make up the bulk of the food. It 
is to be noted that, of the luxuries, only cream and 
fresh fruit are absent from the 15-cent dietary. 



FORTY TO FIFTY CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 1 37 



TABLE XXII 

FOOD MATERIAL, QUANTITY FURNISHED AT VARIOUS PRICES PER 
PERSON PER DAY 



Foodstuffs 


Cost 


$1. 


socts. 


25 cts. 


15 cts. 
No. 2. 


7.3 CIS. 


Meat and fish , 


oz. 

25.3 
4.3 


oz. 
17.6 


oz. 


oz. 

12 
.17 
.3 


oz. 

10.2 


FofOfS 


3.0 1 2.66 

. C ! 


.01 


Cheese 






8.0 
4.0 


2.3 
4.0 






Milk 


19 


4.5 


2.8 






Butter, lard, etc. ; pork 

Flour, cornmeal, crackers 


3.0 

6.1 


1-5 
5.0 


1.36 

7-7 


2. I 
6.5 


24.06 


Oatmeal, hominy, rice 


1-5 


I.O 


.4 


2.5 


0.34 
1.34 












4.0 


0.5 1.7 


1.6 
1.0 




Driprf f riiifs . ....... .... 




Fresh fruit 


12.5 
4-3 


C.I 




Potatoes 


5-0 


8.0 


7.6 


15.64 




Fresh vegetables >..• 


10.6 
0.1 


I'?. "^ 


^.n 


CI 


6.33 

4.76 


Molasses.. 









The dietary belonging with this section will be 
found on page 141. 



XIV 

SIXTY CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON; INCOME, $5000 

"The pleasure of eating is common to us with animals; it 
merely supposes hunger and that which is necessary to satisfy it. 
The pleasure of the table is peculiar to the human species; it 
supposes antecedent attention to the preparation of the repast. 
. . . Dishes have been invented so attractive that they unceas- 
ingly renew the appetite, and which are at the same time so light 
that they flatter the palate without loading the stomach.'* 

— Hayward. 

If twenty-five or thirty cents is enough, how is it 
that double the amount is the rule? Even on an in- 
come of $3000 ? There are several very evident rea- 
sons: 

1. Waste. 

2. Hothouse, out-of-season products. 

3. Rare foods, of which there are not enough to 
go around. 

4. Perishable food. 

5. Fads, fashion in dishes. 

6. Flavors, derived from expensive materials. 
Are we any better mentally or physically for these 

flavors and stimulants? Is life more wholesome, 

more efficient? Efficiency is the key to the whole. 

A large item of expense in small households is the 

138 



SIXTY CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 1 39 

maid's table. If it is difficult to keep down the cost 
in an institution where a separate meal is prepared, 
how much more difficult when the same food serves 
for both family and maid, and when the least curtail- 
ment in the kitchen is a signal for a change in ser- 
vants! The cook does not count the potatoes, nor 
measure the strawberries, as the pioneer housekeeper 
did; neither does she save the cold potato and the 
ends of the steak for hash, as New England thrift de- 
manded. The moral effect of this lax lavishness upon 
these inmates of our kitchens is a worse feature than 
the mere waste of money. What will happen when 
they marry and have homes of their own and have 
only $800 a year, or less, for everything? Have we no 
responsibility toward those we employ and whose 
tastes and habits we form? 

Even the busy woman, if once she gave time to 
starting her accounts properly and if once she had 
conquered the A-B-C of dietaries, could keep a fair 
oversight over her expenses without going to market 
or examining the ice-box. 

If sixty cents a day furnishes all that the most fas- 
tidious person can require, how is it that $1 and even 
$1.50 per day is ever spent on raw food? It can be 
done only by using the most out-of-season deli- 
cacies, such as strawberries in January, or rare 
dishes as terrapin, choice game. etc. Of course, 
condiments and wines can easily bring up the ex- 



140 THE COST OF FOOD 

pense, as they do at banquets where $10 and $20 per 
plate may be charged, but we are speakmg of food. 

" It is one of the evils of the present day that 
everybody strives after the same dull style. ... I 
will observe that I think the affluent would render 
themselves and their country an essential service if 
they were to fall into the simple, refined style of liv- 
ing, discarding everything incompatible with real en- 
joyment." — Walker in Tlie Original, 1835. 

This hyperaesthetic sense as to the furnishing of 
the table is not to be imitated by the sensible young 
men and young women for whom this little book is 
written. They mean to make themselves of use in 
the world, to be strong men and women with clear 
heads and happy hearts, and they know that un- 
natural greenhouse-grown fruits and vegetables lack 
the Ralstonite's ''glame," the vivified essence of air 
and sun which does bring to the body its own spirit 
of the universal power. 

There is more in life than meat. " He that ruleth 
his appetite is greater than he that buildeth a great 
market." 

In order to bring out more clearly the relation 
(or, rather, the non-relation) of food value to cost, 
the dietary illustrative of this section is fianked by 
one belonging to the preceding chapter, and may 
be compared with the 15-cent dietary, No. 2, p. no. 



SIXTY CENTS PER DAY PER PERSON 



HI 



TABLE XXIII 

Dietary No. 4 

50 cents per person per day 









Gms. 


Cost. 


Grams. 

.1 


Cal. 




1 


P„.. 


- 


Carb. 


Brtakfast. 
Cream of wheat .... 


! 


127 


$0.03 
.07 
•24 
•»3 

:S 

.025 
.007 
•035 


»3 

31 
60 
48.3 
39 

3 


2-S 
32.0 

47 
"4 

4 
70 


96.6 
3-3 

.. 
213 

60 

a 


472 




' 




Eec"s (o) ... 








876 


hIS.^:::;. :::::::::;::;:: 






340 




Toast (i loaf) 




1070 








80 


651 
















60 


246 


Cream (thin) 




...... 


2 


15 


310 




a 








Luncheon. 


0.657 
•05 

;S 

.02 

.03 
.007 


167 

19 


284.5 

10 

1.8 
120.2 

3 


375 

"5 
30 

ioS' 

60 


5144 
650 








300 
1290 


Potato chips. .. • 




* 








..... 




French dressing 








1118 








200 


544 


Tea 






Sugar 









246 




I 












Dinner. 
Salmon (broiled) • • . 


0.815 

0.30 
.085 
.04 
.60 
.02 
.067 
.10 
.08 
.025 
.03 
.032 
• 15 


194-5 

108 

10 

38 
182 

.8 
20 


238.0 

lOI 

".5 
6 
300 
•4 
37.3 


332 -3 

125 

14-3 

24 

2 

60 


4358 

X368 
3«6 
1088 


Pease with butter . ...... 










400 


Beef (rib roast). ... .. 


3 




3613 




784 

77 

1118 


Tomatoes (stuffed) 








T ettiirp anrl niruinhfr^ . 








French dressincr ... 








2.9 
24 


lao 
•2, 

30 


Saltines 






a8 

lOO 




Cheese 






385 


Coffee and sucrar .... 








246 


Relishes and garnishes 




:::::i::.::{ 












1.529 


385.7 


507-4 


553-3 


8430 


Total 


$3,001 
.50 


747-2 
"4.5 


1029.9 «26o.6 
171 .6 210 


17922 
2987 


For one person . 





















142 



THE COST OF FOOD 



TABLE XXIV 

Dietary No. 5 

$i.oo per person per day 





Lbs. 


Oz. 


Gms. 


Cost. 


Grams, 


Cal. 




Prot. 


Fat. 


Carb. 


Brtak/ast. 
Strawberries 


3 






$0.40 
.018 
.03 

.15 

.24 

.12 

.12 

.025 

.007 

•075 


12 


8 


83 
^59 
96.6 

6.5 
'26^" 

60 
3.3 


465 
652 
472 
618 




5-6 


159 
127 
230 
505 
453 

84 

28.3 

60 
"5 

"28'" 


Cream of wheat 




13 

6 

60 

1 


47 
24 
72 








Egrgs (9) 




,8 
2 


836 
1465 


French rolls (i dozen) 

Butter 


I 


Coffee 










246 


Thick cream 




3 


30.5 


309 




4 




Luncheon. 
Chicken (broiled) 


1-175 

1. 00 
.015 
.05 

.08 

.oa 
•03 
.007 
. 10 
.04 


146 
268 

IQ 


*45 

20 

24 
80 

1.8 
120.2 

■5 


668.4 

'15 
29.9 

108" 


5763 

1300 
224 

1290 
210 

1118 


Butter, 2 tbs.* 


Potato chips. 


0-5 
2 




Cold asparagus (salad) 

French dressing (J cup of oil) 
Bread 










200 

453 
250 


S44 


Tea 




2 






Sugar 




1 


60 
66 
124 


246 




1 


; 


-L 


Gingerbread (thin) 


16 


32 






2 






Dinner. 
Tomato soup. . • . .... 


1.642 

.10 
.278 
.02 

I.OO 

.02 
.10 

.73 
.025 

•475 

•OS 

.025 

.007 

•35 


336 
62.2 


281 

TO 


503 
so. 8 

:r 

"es" 
17.4 

»7-5 
24 
214 
80 

60 


6044 

370 


Halibut, creamed 






76.4) 43 


765 








200 




Filet of beef, piquant sauce. . 


3 
I 
05 




4-8 

7Q 




1300 








New beets 






170 


Sweetbread and cucumber 
salad (No. 30), mayonnaise 
dressing 






2030 






I 


38 


2.9; 

12 1 122 

7 1 II 




Caf^ parfait (home-made).. . . 




19^6 








4 




Coffee' .■■:■;■;■.■■. 




I 
2 








246 


Olives, relishes,garnishes,etc 
















Total 


3.x8 
6.00 

I.OO 


498 

980 
163 

24 


635.8 

I161.8 

J93.6 

29 


663.0 
1834.4 
305-7 

46 


10263 


Per person 








22070 

3678 


Less 15 per cent of waste oil, 
fat, and sugar — on plates, 
in coffee, etc 








55a 
















139 


164 


259 


3.26 



* tbs. = tablespoonful. 



XV 



THE DIETARY COMPUTER 

"The objects of cookery are the preparation of food in such a 
manner that men shall derive the greatest nutritive and aesthetical 
advantages from its consumption." — "' Spirit of Cookery," p. 3. 

" Every bill of fare must be the result of the concurrence of 
all kinds of practical considerations, and should never be a theo- 
retical prescription culled from lists." — Thudichum. 

So much difficulty has been found in the practical 
use of the figures giving composition and value of 
food that the author has attempted to simplify one 
part of the work in the following manner — some- 
what after a dissected-map puzzle: 

1st. Make a list of common food-materials with all 
the facts needed on one line. This list may be in a 
book or on sheets, or each substance may be on a 
slip by itself, and the slips kept in a box with those 
carrying the fractions next to be described. 

2d. Go through the common recipes in use, and 
write the facts about each ingredient on a slip of the 
same length as the first. If it is a complicated recipe, 
it will be well to have also a slip with the totals for 
the dish (Exhibit A). When a number of these slips 
have been prepared, proceed to plan a breakfast, 

143 



44 



THE COST OF FOOD 



dinner, and supper or luncheon which shall consist 
of the dishes dissected and which shall yield the 
standard amounts of the different ingredients. This 
is shown by placing these prepared slips on a card, 
with a rubber band on either side to hold them, in 
the order of the menu and adding up the figures. If 
the first combination does not give the desired re- 
sult, rearrange the slips until one does. The fol- 
lowing example will illustrate: 

TABLE XXV 
Exhibit A 

DATA FOR AND COMPUTATION OF A DISH 





Lbs. 


Grms. 


Cost. 


Prot.. 
Grms. 


Fat, 
Grms. 


Carb., 
Grms. 


Calories 


I Veal 


1 
I 

2 
2 


453 
453 


$0.30 
.04 
.01 
.005 


68 
8.5 

136 
17 


40 
0.5 
12 

80 

I 
48 


■■'68* 

'■;36" 


651 
308 
III .6 


2. Potatoes 

1. Fat .... 


4. Veal hash : 

Veal 


1302 
636 
445 




Fat 












Total for 6 persons 







$0,355 


»53 


129 


136 


2383 



A family of six is to have a breakfast of cream of 
wheat with cream, bananas, boiled eggs, and rolls. 
First we need to know the weight of each ingredient 
to be used, the ounces and pounds of the cereal, fruit, 
eggs, and cream, and from the values of the pound 
of each the other figures may be derived. (See p. 
27.) Eight ounces is | of a pound, but the quanti- 
ties are so small that most inconvenient and confus- 
ing fractions would ensue if the results were ex- 



For six persons. 


Prot., 
Grms. 


Fat, 
Grms. 


Carb., 
Grms. 


The breakfast should yield.. 


. 200 


260 


650 


" dinner " " .. 


• 300 


300 


750 



THE DIETARY COMPUTER I45 

pressed in 1-7, 1-16, 1-64 of an ounce. All scientific 
dietary work is expressed in grams. This unit is 
only 1-28 as large, and the decimal system renders 
the computation much simpler, as will be seen (Ex- 
hibit B). 

3d. A card * has been prepared with spaces into 
which to slide the slips to hold them firmly in one's 
lap while playing the game. On this card is printed 
the estimated amounts for each meal : 

Cal. 

5500 
7500 

" supper " "... 100 120 500 3500 

The figures for breakfast and supper are inter- 
changeable. Either may be used for luncheon. 

4th. The list and slips once prepared, a little prac- 
tice will make any one proficient in calculating the 
daily dietary according to cost and also according 
to food values, A luncheon like the following is not 
uncommon (Exhibit C), and there is no way of 
checking it up if the food value is unknown. Again, 
while most cooks object to being asked to learn a 
lot of figures, it will be found that the use of these 
simple rules will soon teach food values, as well as 
economy, and greater respect will be developed for 
some now neglected materials. 

* Copyrighted under the name *' The Dietary Computer." 



146 



THE COST OF FOOD 



It will be a simple matter to evolve any given die- 
tary according' to a stated cost, once the quantities 



TABLE XXVI 

Exhibit B 

computation for one meal 



■ 


Grms. 


Cost. 


Prot., 
Grms. 


/at, 
Grms. 


Carb. 
Grms. 


Cal. 


Crca.m of wheat 


137 

230 


$0.02 

• 15 

.12 

.12 

.025 

.007 

.063 


»3 
6 

^■' 

44 
8 


21 
46 
24 
72 


96.6 

4;; 

60 
3-3 


47» 
618 




c bananas • 


349 
775 
J 46s 
700 


Q eSTEfS 


400 

453 

84 


Prpnrh rolls i Ih .... 


Butter 7 oz ... 




SuGfar 2 oz ... ... 


60 
"3 


246 
309 




3 


30- s 








$0.69 


138.3 


2S7 


502.4 


4934 






Averacre 




lo.TIS 


23 
20 


43 
30 


83.7 
83 


822 






701 









1 pound = 453.6 grams, 
i/io pound = 45.3 " 
1/16 pound = 28.3 " 
One divisor is used for the whole series of facts. 



TABLE XXVII 

Exhibit C 

luncheon for six persons 





Grms. 


Cost. 


Prot., 
Grms. 


Fat, 
Grms. 


Carb., 
Grms. 


Cal. 




560 

453 

50 

14 

1360 

112. 5 


$0.48 
.ots 

.04 
.09 
.015 


75-5 

5.5 

5 
8.1 


160 

12 
1-3 




47-5 

27 

97.6 
112. s 


180T 


Potatoes (baked, ^ waste) 


210 




247 
445 
461 






Total 




0.64 


94.1 


173-3 


284.6 


3164 










0.106 


I5-7 
20 


28.8 
30 


tl' 


524 
701 


Standard for light luncheon.. 






This difference may seem small, but it means in many cases the difference be- 
tween an efficient day's work and wasted time, or if the work is forced, a strain 
from which recovery may be slow. 



THE DIETARY COMPUTER 147 

of each substance needed for a meal are determined. 
Right here is the weak point of all our cook-books 
and all our household accounts. The quantity of a 
dish used by any given family will depend upon how 
many other things are served at the same meal, upon 
the age. taste, and appetite of the members of the 
family, but in each case a fair idea may be gained after 
a little experience if one knows in the first place how 
much is taken. 

The recipes from which are calculated the dishes 
used in the illustrative menus were culled from 
many cook-books and were chosen in preference to 
others because these gave quantities. '* A piece of 
leg of lamb," *' rolled bread-crumbs," ** a few pieces 
of toast," '' a little butter," is not sufficiently definite 
as a basis upon which to build a scientific ration. 

Each combination must be tried, and, if accurate 
records are kept, variations will be easy. The or- 
dinary housewife is as afraid of figures as if she had 
never been to school; pencil and paper should be 
constant companions. 

On page 142 will be found what I am sure will 
be considered a typical menu, worked out in de- 
tail. One of the first things to be noticed is the num- 
ber and variety of materials used and the number 
of combinations made. It would be interesting to 
know the time which would be expended in prepar- 
ing and serving such a day's food to a family of six. 



148 THE COST OF FOOD 

Another noticeable fact is the amount of fat which is 
frequently in such form as to escape consumption. 
The author has more than once called attention to 
the loss of fat in American food as a reason for the 
apparent excess in the computations. In the menu 
under consideration, three times is fat served in such 
a manner that it is safe to say that one-half of it is 
not eaten. The French dressing and the mayonnaise 
dressing share the same fate as the butter on the 
broiled chicken, so that out of the reckoned total 
of T164 grams of fat, at least 175 grams ought 
to be deducted as tributary to the grease-trap. 

This >«^hows that the author's hete noire — the drawn 
butter, mayonnaise, and white sauces so much used 
in modern cooking — are responsible for the excess 
of fat material, as well as for some of the excess of 
cost. In this menu, the butter used in cooking is 
158 grams as against 84 grams on bread. 

The proportion of starch to sugar is 817 to 726 
grams, which goes far toward substantiating Prof. 
Patten's charge already referred to (page 5) ; it also 
indicates the tendency of modern diet. 

As to the cost of this menu, it will be seen that 
three things are responsible, each quite unnecessary 
and each of rather low food value. If the student 
will compare it with the 50-cent dietary on page 141, 
he Avill see that all the reasons for high cost may be 
found in the list on page 138. If, further, he will study 



Till; niKlARV COMPl'TER I49 

carefully the various dietaries given, he will see 
that the essentials of living are pretty much the 
same whether they cost $i or lo cents; that the 
waste is very much greater when twelve things are 
served for a meal than when four suffice; that it is 
far more difficult to calculate exact amounts for so 
many things, and that small quantities cannot be 
used to advantage. For instance, a quarter of a loaf 
of bread left over is used for toast or bread-crumbs, 
but two pieces of toast with asparagus, or two rolls, 
are not available. A leg of the broiled chicken or 
two stuffed tomatoes are not worth saving, but a 
portion of rice or beans is always usable in the next 
day's cooking. It is in the matter of the garbage- 
pail that most of our economy will come when the 
mistress herself attends to the food, and when true 
refinement of living takes the place of the present 
barbarous feeding. 

The simplicity of the 15-cent dietary need not 
mean monotony. There are as many standard 
flavors at the command of the one cook as of the 
other, only the time of using them may be different, 
as in the case of strawberries and other fruits. The 
family who counts its pennies need not be deprived 
of the taste of these if it chooses the right time. 
Ginger, pepper, vanilla, onion, and celery are com- 
mon property. Chicken and turkey at ten cents are 
within the reach of every one. On our list only 



150 THE COST OF FOOD 

cream, tenderloin, and sweetbreads belong to the 
really expensive class, as would wine, if it were used 
in flavoring. 

Surely life may be made worth living without 
these, and it is only when one has to allow barely 15 
cents per day per person that they need to be wholly 
banished. Much misconception will be done away 
with when a study of these matters becomes either 
fashionable or compulsory. 



XVI 

FOOD FOR INCIPIENT TUBERCULOSIS 

In response to many requests the following general 
suggestions are offered to those seeking guidance in the 
difficult matter of nourishing food which shall not be of 
prohibitive cost. 

Indiv^idualism in habit and taste make impossible 
definite rules as to food in all cases, therefore these 
suggestions are to be used as guides to be' modified by 
experience. 

It is safe to say that the very fact of the person finding 
himself in danger from most diseases, and especially 
from tuberculosis, indicates a low state of power in the 
digestive and assimilative organs and fluids of the body. 
The first effort is to "build up," that is, to secure an 
excess of energy with \yhich to combat the microbes of 
disease. To do this the food taken must be such that 
it can be made use of by the body with very little ex- 
penditure of its own slender stock, else there will be no 
addition. Such foods as milk, cream, butter, eggs, 
lightly-cooked meats, fruit sugars, well-cooked starch — 
in cereals and crusty bread — are assimilated with very 
little effort on the part of the body and thus are *' nour- 
ish 



152 THE COST OF FOOD 

ishing" in that they give more than they take, and so 
"build up" a fund of energy. In case the provider 
may spend ninety cents to one dollar a day for raw food 
materials (and except in case of starch, the less cooking 
the better) , there is no difficulty. 

The problem increases in seriousness as the limit of 
twenty-five cents is reached. For less than this it is nearly 
impossible to provide easily assimilated food which shall 
be sufficiently appetizing. The very fact of the low 
condition of the body indicates a capricious appetite 
as one cause of the under nutrition. 

The person under treatment should conquer this 
tendency as far as possible, should realize that food 
is essential and not a mere accessory to the day's ex- 
istence. The present requisite of living in open air 
makes the food question somewhat less difficult, but, 
on the other hand, the prohibition of the greatest appe- 
tizer, exercise, renders necessary the daintiest serving, 
the search for attractive combinations and the exercise 
of strong will on the part of the patient. 

In a town where milk is four cents a quart and eggs 
twelve cents a dozen, the patient will have no difficulty 
in adding the small amount of other things. But with 
safe milk at twelve cents a quart, cream at sixty cents, 
eggs at forty-five cents a dozen, butter at forty-five cents 
a pound, how shall the patient live? 

The requirements of food as purchased are about: 
proteid food one pound, starchy food one half pound, 



FOOD FOR INCIPIENT TUBERCULOSIS 1 53 

sugar one quarter pound, fatty food one quarter to one 
third pound. Three quarts of milk contains roughly: 
one quarter pound proteid, one quarter pound fat, and 
a little more than one quarter pound sugar. One half 
dozen large eggs may yield one ounce fat, and one to 
three tenths ounce proteid. 

To take the place of milk, soups may be used, care 
being taken that the cheaper parts of meat are sound. 
Pillau or Pillaff, a rice with tomato, is usually much 
relished. 

Pea and bean soups well made of not too thick con- 
sistency and strained to remove the cellulose before the 
cooking is finished are also occasional dishes. It is 
difficult to replace the yolk of the egg by any combination. 
It would seem that it must be had even if in limited 
quantity. 

Salads of perfectly cleaned vegetables with the plain 
French dressing are appetizers, besides furnishing the 
potassium salts needed and the fat in the form of oil. 
Only a few drops of vinegar should be used. The 
patient will soon learn to like these foods. 

Sugar up to four ounces a day is as inexpensive a 
food as may be had, and taken in small quantities, usually 
suit. It is a lesser tax upon the digestion than starchy 
food. 

Well baked crusty bread and as much butter as needed 
to make up the fat should enable any one living under 
the right conditions to thrive. 



154 THE COST OF FOOD 

Avoid fried foods, and soggy foods, too many kinds in 
one day, and especially at one meal, thereby spreading 
the attainable variety over the week. 

If one cannot get eggs and cream, nourishing food 
may be prepared with a little time and trouble, if both 
patient and cook will co-operate. 

Corn meal is the grain of this country, and it carries 
a valuable fat, its starch is easily digested, and it may 
be made a carrier for many other ingredients. As a 
cereal cooked with water long enough to make it smooth 
and firm when cold, it is as delicious as blanc mange. 
It may be eaten cold with cream or hot with syrup. 
Occasionally it may be fried, but it is better broiled under 
the gas broiler or heated brown in the oven. It may 
have added suet or dried fruits or raisins or cheese, or 
be cooked in meat broths. It may be made up into a 
variety of breads, which will call for butter, and so give 
the needed fat. 

Rice may be used with all the above additions, except 
that it does not lend itself to breads. 

Macaroni is another, not very cheap food, but ex- 
cellent for variety. 

The circular of the Illinois State Board of Health on 
the cause and prevention of consumption contains a 
good discussion of diet in consumption. 



\ 



GLOSSARY OF TERMS 

Absorption. The process of conveying the digested, i.e., dis- 
solved and dissolvable substances to the tissues. There are two 
routes: one quick, to the blood direct via the liver; the other 
slow, by the lacteals and lymph circulation. 

Albuminoids. Derivatives from albumen or allied substances 
are nitrogenous foods of lesser value because derivatives, and 
therefore a step lower in the scale. Gelatine is a familiar ex- 
ample. These are not found in quantity in natural food-products, 
but occur in cooked foods. 

Anabolism. See Assimilatian and Metabolism. 

Assimilation. See Nutrition for its broad meaning. " In a nar- 
rower sense it is limited to the synthetic conversion of dead mat- 
ter into living protoplasm; that is, anabolism in opposition to 
katabolism, or disassimilation, the changes leading to the de- 
struction of the complex substances of living molecules." 

— Howell. 

Calories. Heat units in foods used as a measure of their en- 
ergy-giving power. As used in dietaries, i Calorie is that amount 
of heat which will raise the temperature of i kilo of water i° 
C. I gram of proteid or carbohydrate is estimated to yield 4.1 
Calories; i gram of fat, 9.3 Calories. 

Carbohydrates. The term used for sugars, starches, gums. etc. 
They contain no nitrogen. The term is a convenient one. since 
it signifies that the per cent of carbon alone is available for 
heat- or energy-giving, the hydrogen which the analysis shows 
being only sufficient to combine with the oxygen present in the 
molecule. 

Cellulose. (C6Hio06)n forms the cell- wall of the plant as 
collagen or connective tissue forms the cell-wall of the animal. 
Only young and tender cellulose, as in lettuce, young peas and 
green corn is digested in the human stomach as a rule. By 
chemical means it can be converted into a sugar. 

155 



156 



THE COST OF FOOD 



Collagen. The chief constituent of the fibres of connective tis- 
sue, of the organic matter of bone (ossein), and likewise one 
of the constituents of cartilage. On boiling with water it forms 
gelatine. 

Cookery is " the adaptation to the purpose of nutrition of nat- 
ural food-products, which by themselves and in their original 
state would be either indigestible and unwholesome or unat- 
tractive and injurious to man." — Thudichum. 

Digestion in its narrower sense means the solution of solids 
and the slight changes which some foods need (a rearrangement 
of the molecules for the most part) to render them capable 
of passing through the membranes into the blood-current by 
which they are carried to all parts of the body. Digestion is 
sometimes used broadly to cover absorption and assimilation. 

Enzymes. " Products of living protoplasm capable of inducing 
changes in complex molecules, either favorable or unfavorable 
to further nutrition." — Green. 

Fats. In food work includes all oils, as olive oil, corn oil. and 
the oils in asparagus, onions, etc., beside the animal fats, both 
solid and liquid. Sometimes the term hydrocarbon is used to 
mean that in these substances, unlike the carbohydrates, a por- 
tion of the hydrogen is available for energy and heat-giving; 
and since a pound of hydrogen gives four times as much heat 
when burned with oxygen as does carbon, it is evident why fats 
are worth more in the diet. 

Fermentation. " The decomposition of complex-organic ma- 
terials into substances of simpler composition by the agency of 
protoplasm itself or of a secretion prepared by it." 

— J. Reynolds Green, p. 9. 
Acid = resulting in an acid liquid. ' 
Alkaline = resulting in an alkaline liquid. 

Food. " What we eat and drink for the purpose of nourishing 
our bodies." — Howell, p. 213. 

Foodstuffs. " Alimentary principles, as albuminoids, pro- 
teids, fats, carbohydrates, mineral salts, water, often called nu- 
trients." — Howell. 

Good Food, or not. The four tests: 

" I. Chemical: What percentage of each nutritive constituent 
does the food contain? 

"2. Physical: How much potential energy is it capable of 
yielding? 

"3. Physiological: How does it behave in the stomach and in- 



GLOSSARY OF TERMS I57 

tcstincs? Is it easily digested, and to what extent is it ab- 
sorbed? 

"4. Economic: Are the nutritive constituents which the food 
contains obtained at a reasonable cost? "—Hutchison, p. 4. 

Hydrocarbons. See Fats. 

Indigestible. " By this term, as popularly and carelessly used, 
is meant a food which by remaining long in the stomach may 
produce heaviness, fullness, or even pain. By this term the 
physiologist means that substance which will not be so changed 
as to be perfectly absorbed into the blood." — Hutchison. 

Katabolism. See Assimilation and Metabolism. 

Metabolism. The cycle including both anabolism, the syn- 
thetic building up of tissue, and katabolism, the breaking down 
of that which has been formed. In other words, the chemical 
process of living. 

Nutrients. See Foodstuffs. 

Nutrition. " The power of converting dead food-material into 
living substance." — Howell, p. 18. 

** By this term we designate the series of changes through 
which dead matter is received into the structure of living sub- 
stance. In its broadest sense it may cover the processes of di- 
gestion, respiration, absorption, and excretion." 

— Howell, p. 9. 

Proteid. " Protein," nitrogenous foodstuff. This furnishes 
the new material to take the place of the worn-out and used-up 
parts which are the life. Therefore food must contain this nitro- 
genous material not in the form of the broken-down substance, 
as urea or the mineralized ammonia, but in such form that it 
can be used to make new protoplasm. No one name can defi- 
nitely express the great variety of compounds containing nitro- 
gen, albumin, casein, gluten, with their derivatives. 

Protoplasm. " An arrangement of materials in a living cell in 
such a manner that continued life is possible. A convenient ab- 
breviation for ' mass of living matter.' It means any part of a 
cell which shows the properties of life." — Howell, p. 17. 

Ptomaines. Putrefactive products of animal substance which 
give the reactions of vegetable alkaloids. See Toxines. 

Ration (the daily). Often used as equivalent to the daily die- 
tary. It meaus that which is served out rather than what is 
selected by choice. 

Starch is a general term for a variety of stored products of 
vegetable activity which can, under the influence of moisture 



158 THE COST OF FOOD 

Sind ferments, yield sugar in a short time. It is the reserve food 
of both plant and animal, dry, portable, and cheap. Animal 
starch, the day's reserve food we all carry, is called glycogen. 

Toxines. Poisonous proteids produced by bacterial action. 
All toxines are not ptomaines, although the latter are toxines. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



k 



Abel, Mrs. M. H. Beans, peas, and other legumes as food. 32 pp. 
il. O. Wash., 1900. Government ; free. (U. S. — Agricul- 
ture, Department of. Farmers' Bulletin, No. 121.) 

Practical, sanitary, and economic cooking. 188 pp. D. Roch- 
ester, 1890. Amer. Pub. Health Ass'n, 40c. 

Atwater, W. O. Methods and results of investigations on the 
chemistry and economy of food. 222 pp. il. O. Wash., 

1895. Government, 15c. (U. S. — Experiment stations, OflScc 
of. Bulletin, No. 21.) 

& Benedict, F. G. Experiments on the metabolism of mat- 
ter and energy in the human body. 112 pp. O. Wash., 1899. 
Government, loc. (U. S. — Experiment stations, Office of. 
Bulletin, No. 69.) 

& Bryant. A. P. Dietary studies in Chicago in 1895 and 

1896. 76 pp. O. Wash., 1898. Government, 5c. (U. S. — 
Experiment stations, Office of. Bulletin, No. 55.) 

Dietary studies of university boat crews. 72 pp. O. Wash., 

1900. Government, 5c. (U.S. — Experiment stations, Office 
of. Bulletin, No. 75.) 

& Rosa, E. B. New respiration calorimeter and experi- 
ments on the conservation of energy in the human body. 
94 pp. il. O. Wash., 1899. Government, loc. (U. S. — Ex- 
periment stations. Office of. Bulletin, No. 63.) 

& Woods, C. D. Chemical composition of American food 

materials. 87 pp. il. O. Wash., 1896. Government, 5c. 
(U. S. — Experiment stations. Office of. Bulletin, No. 28.) 

Dietary studies in New York City in 1895 and 1896. 117 pp. 

O. Wash., 1898. Government. loc. (U. S. — Experiment 
stations. Office of. Bulletin, No. 46.) 

Dietary studies with reference to the food of the negro in 

159 



l6o BIBLIOGRAPHY 

1895 and 1896. 69 pp. il. O. Wash., 1897. Government, 

5c. (U. S.— Experiment stations, Office of. Bulletin, No. 38.) 
Bevier, Isabel. Nutrition investigations in Pittsburg, Pa., 

1894-96. 48 pp. O. Wash., 1898. (U. S.— Experiment sta- 
tions, Office of. Bulletin, No. 52.) 
Blythe, a. W. Foods : their composition and analysis. Ed. 4. 

735 pp. il. O. N. Y., 1896. Van Nostrand, $7.50. Adultera- 
tion of food, pp. 2-32. 
Brillat-Savarin, J. A. Physiology of taste. 347 pp. D. Phil., 

1854. Lindsay & Blakiston, $1.75. 
Burnet, R. W. Foods and dietaries, a manual of clinical dietetics. 

Ed. 2. 196 pp. D. Lond., 1890. Griffin, 4^. Also issued by 

Blakiston, Phil., $1.50, net. 
Chambers, T. K. Manual of diet and regimen in health and 

sickness. 310 pp. O. Phil., 1875. Lea, $2.75. 
Child, Theodore. Delicate feasting. 214 pp. D. N. Y., 1890, 

Harper, $1.25. 
Church, A. H. Food : some account of its sources, constituents, 

and uses. 252 pp. O. Lond., 1889. Chapman, 3^. (South 

Kensington Museum science handbooks.) New ed. Scrib- 

ner, $1.20, net. 
Dietary studies of bicyclers. The effect of severe and prolonged 

work. (Bulletin, No. 98.) 
Dukes, Dr. Clement. School diet. Lond., 1899. Rivington. 
Food syllabus for study clubs. By Lake Placid Conference. State 

Library, Albany, N. Y. 
Frissell, H. B., & Bevier, Isabel. Dietary studies of negroes 

in Eastern Virginia in 1897 and 1898. 45 pp. il. O. Wash., 

1899. Government, 5c. (U.S. — Experiment stations. Office 

of. Bulletin, No. 71.) 
Gibson, H. B., Calvert, S., & May, D. W. Dietary studies at 

the University of Missouri in 1895. 24 pp. O. Wash., 1896. 

Government. 5c. (U. S. — Experiment stations. Office of. 

Bulletin, No. 31.) 
Goodfellow. John. Dietetic value of bread. 328 pp. D. Lond., 

1892. Macmillan, $1.50. 
Goss, Arthur. Dietary studies in New Mexico in 1895. 23 pp. 

O. Wash., 1897. Government, 5c. (U. S. — Experiment 

stations. Office of. Bulletin, No. 40.) 
Nutrition investigations in New Mexico in 1897. 20 pp. O. 

Wash.. 1898. Government; 5c. (U. S.— Experiment stationi. 

Office of. Bulletin, No. 54.) 



BIBLIOGRAPHY l6l 

Green, Mrs. M. E. (Green). Food products of the world. Ed. 

byG. G. Bohn. 249 pp. i'- ^' Charlotte, Mich., 1898. Green, 

Si. 50. 
Grindley, H. S. and Others. Nutrition investigations at the 

University of Illinois, North Dakota Agricultural College, 

and Lake Erie College. Ohio, 1896 to 1900. 42 pp. O. Wash., 

19CK). Government, — . (U. S. — Experiment stations. Office 

of. Bulletin, No. 91.) 
Halliburton, W. D. Chemical constituents of the body and food. 

(In Schafer, E. A. ed. Text-book of physiology. 1898. i. 

1-79.) Published by Macmillan, $8.00. 
Hart, Mrs. A. M. Diet in sickness and in health. 219 pp. O, 

Phil.. 1897. Putnam, $1.50. 
HoGAN. L. E. How to feed children. Ed. 2. 236 pp. D. Phil., 

1898. Lippincott, $1.00. (Practical lessons in nursing.) 
Holt, L. E. Care and feeding of children. Ed. 2. 104 pp. S. 

N. Y., 1899. Appleton, 50c. 
Huntington. E. A. The dietary. Pamphlet, 16 pp. 2 6 Charter 

Oak place. Hartford. Ct. 
Hutchison, Robert. Food and the principles of dietetics. 566 pp. 

il. O. N. Y., 1901. Wood, $5.00, ftft. 
Jaffa. M. E. Nutrition investigations at the California agricul- 
tural experiment station, 1896-98. 39 pp. O. Wash., 1900. 

Government, 5c. (U. S. — Experiment stations. Office of. 

Bulletin, No. 84.) 
Jordan. W. H. Dietary studies at the Maine state college in 

1895. 57 pp. O. Wash.. 1897. Government, 5c. (U. S.— 

Experiment stations, Office of. Bulletin, No. 37.) 
Kellogg. J. H. The daily ration. Pamphlet. 15 pp. Battle 

Creek. Mich., 1899. Good Health Pub. Co. 

The new dietary. Pamphlet, 35 pp. Battle Creek, Mich., 

Good Health Pub. Co. 

Langworthy, C. F. Eggs and their uses as food. 32 pp. O. 
W^ash., 1901. Government : free. (U. S. — Agriculture, De- 
partment of. Farmers' Bulletin, No. 128.) 

Fish as food. 30 pp. O. Wash., 1898. Government; free. 

(U. S. — Agriculture, Department of. Farmers' Bulletin, 
No. 85.) 

Miles, E. H. Muscle, brain, and diet: a plea for simpler foods. 

Ed. 2. 345 pp. O. Lond., 1900. Sonnenschein, ss. td. 
Oppenheim, Nathan. Care of the child in health. 308 pp. D. 

N. Y., 1900. Macmillan, $1.25. 



l62 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



Richards, Mrs. E. H. (Swallow). Plain words about food. 

176 pp. D. Boston. 1899. Home Science Pub. Co., $1.00. 

(Rumford kitchen leaflets.) 
Simpson, Henry. Choice ot food. O. Manchester, Eng., 1889. 

(Health lectures, ser. 3.; 
Stone, W. E. Dietary studies at Purdue University, Lafayette, 

Ind., in 1895. 28 pp. O. Wash., 1896. Government, 5c. 

(U. S. — Experiment stations, Office of. Bulletin, No. 32.) 
Thompson, W. G. Practical dietetics, with special reference to 

diet in disease. 802 pp. il. O. N. Y., 1895. Appleton, $5.00. 
VooRHEES, E. B. Food and nutrition investigations in New Jersey 

in 1895 and 1896. 40 pp. O. Wash., 1896. Government. 5c. 

(U. S. — Experiment stations, Office of. Bulletin, No. 35.) 
Wait, C. E Dietary studies at the University of Tennessee in 

1895. 45 pp. O. Wash., 1S96. Government, 5c. (U. S.— 

Experiment stations. Office of. Bulletin, No. 29.) 

Nutrition investigations at University of Tennessee in 1896 

and 1897. 46 pp. O. Wash., 1898. Government, 5c. (U. S. — 
Experiment stations. Office of. Bulletin, No. 53.) 

Wiley, H. W., and Others. Foods and food adulterants. O. 
Wash., 1887-98. Government. (U. S. — Chemistry, Division 
of. Bulletin, No. 13.) 

Woods, C. D. Meats : composition and cooking. 29 pp. O. 
Wash., 1896. Government ; free. (U. S. — Agriculture, De- 
partment of. Farmers' Bulletin, No. 34.) 

& Merrill, L. H. Cereal breakfast foods. Pp. 91-106 

O. Orono, Me., 1899. (Maine— Agricultural experiment sta- 
tion. Bulletin, No. 55.) 

Nuts as food. Pp. 69-92. O. Orono, Me., 1899. (Maine — 

Agricultural experiment station. Bulletin, No. 54.) 

Report of investigations on digestibility and nutritive value 

of bread. 51 pp. O. Wash., 1900. Government, 5c. (U. S. 
— Experiment stations. Office of. Bulletin, No. 85.) 



BIBUOGRAPHY 163 



RECENT BOOKS ON FOOD AND NUTRITION 

Physiological Economy in Nutrition. R. H. Chittenden, Frederick 
A. Stokes Co., N. Y. 

The Nutrition of Man. A. Stokes Co., N. Y. 

The Science of Nutrition. Graham Lusk. W. B. Saunders Co. 

Practical Problems of Diet and Nutrition. Max Einhart. 
Wm. Wood & Co. 

The Effect of Different Methods of Cooking Meat. U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, Office of Expt. Stations, Bulletin 
193, Gov. Printing OflBce. 

Laboratory Manual. Food and Nutrition. Miss Isabel Bevier, 
Miss S. Usher, University of Illinois. 

Selection and Preparation of Food. Miss Isabel Bevier, Whit- 
comb & Barrows. 

A Theory of Protein Metabolism. Otto Folin. Reprinted from 
the American Journal of Physiology. 

A Precise Method of Roasting Beef. University of Illinois Bulle- 
tin, Vol. 19. 

Chemistry of Flesh. Emmett & Grindley. The Journal of Bio- 
logical Chemistry, Vol. 3, No. 6, Nov. 1907. 

A New Method for Indicating Food Values. Reprinted from 
American Journal of Physiology. Irving Fisher, Yale University. 

Report of Progress in Food and Nutrition. Report of Lake 
Placid Conference. 1907. 



INDEX 



rACB 

Air in school-rooiti 29,31, 34 

Appetite 5» 6, 36, 78, 98 

Bachelor, why he boards 59 

Bibliography 155-157 

Bill of fare for child 26 

" " " for school 42,43 

" " *' for breakfast 95-97 

" " " for 25-cents 115, n6 

Brain-worker, food of 50 

Cheap food 2, 5, 8, 100 

College, duty of 49 

Cost of food, factors in ••• '7, 8 

(See Food, cost of.) 

Dietary computer 143-150 

Diet, dietary 26, 28, 39, 72, 77, 100, 107 

" definition of 90, 91 

Dietaries of definite cost 98-142 

10 to 15-cent 109, no 

25 cent 1 17-132 

50 cent 141 

$100 142 

• tabular statements. 107, 109, no, 117-123, 126-128, 

130, 132, 137, 141, 142, 144. 146 

Definitions. See Glossary 151-154 

' Diet, dietary 90, 91 

Eggs as food 22, 23, 25 

Food, amounts of 19, 20, 39, 69, 87 

cheap 2, 5, 8, 100 

'* *' definition of 13, 14 

165 



1 66 INDEX 

PAGE 

Food, choice of ' iii^ 3 

cost of, iii, iv, 7, 8, 9, 34, 37, 40, 41, 51, 56, 61, 62, 78, 80, 

106, 107, 108, 125, 126 

creed 105, 105 

* * electives in 11 

" fear of 41, 48 

* ' for incipient tuberculosis 151-154 

" for the infant 15-17 

" " .** young child 18-21 

" " " child at school 29-36 

'* *' " active youth. 37-45 

'* " " youth at college and brain-worker 45-51 

" '* *' traveller 52, 53^ 54 

shopper 57.58 

" *' " businessman 58 

" in boarding-house 59 

' ' for criminals and paupers 60-69 

" for the hospital patient 70-83 

" for middle life and old age 84, 89 

" habits in 104 

*• hygienic 58 

indigestible. 41, 77 

" in relation to cost of living 59, 62, 91, 98, iii, 134 

'* low estimation of 103 

" on a journey 53, 54 

** study of 13 

" taste in 106 

Food materials, analyses of 15, 16, 22, 27 

" or composition of 64,106 

therapeutic value of 82 

Food-supply, abundance of r •!> 2, 4 

" no substitute for 10 

" inspection of 67,68 

Glossary 155 

Hospital, food in 70-83 

Illinois State Board of Health circular 154 

Institution, food of 60, 67, 69, 70 

' ' cost of food of 69 

* ' inspection of 67 



INDEX 167 

PAGE 

Menu for child 26, 63, 64-67 

" " school 42 

" " business' man 56 

'* no definite 92, loi 

** for 25 cents 115 

* ' to show computation 146 

Milk as food 15, 16, 17, 63 

Over-eating, deaths from 85, 86 

Over-nutrition, dangers in 4, 5, 54, 86, loi 

Pauper, food for -. 60-69 

Potential citizen, food for 60-69 

Recent books on nutrition 163 

School luncheon ^^, 34, 35, 36 

Sugar as food 18 

Tuberculosis, food in 151-154 

Under- nutrition 33, 49, 62 

University, duty of 49 

Valparaiso, Ind., food at iv 

Vegetables, use of 40 

Vegetarian diet 86, 87 



SHORT-TITLE CATALOGUE 

OF THE 

PUBLICATIONS 

OF 

JOHN WILEY & SONS 

NEW YORK 

London: CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited 
Montreal, Can.: RENOUF PUB. CO. 



ARRANGED UNDER SUBJECTS 

Descriptive circulars sent on application. Books marked with an asterisk (*) are 
sold at 7iet prices only. All books are bound in cloth unless otherwise stated. 



AGRICULTURE— HORTICULTURE— FORESTRY. 

Armsby — Principles of Animal Nutrition 8vo, $4 00 

Bowman — Forest Physiography 8vo, *5 00 

BuDD and Hansen — American Horticultural Manual: 

Part I. Propagation, Culture, and Improvement 12mo, 1 50 

Part II. Systematic Pomology 12mo, 1 50 

Elliott — Engineering for Land Drainage 12mo, 2 00 

Practical Farm Drainage. (Second Edition, Rewritten) 12mo, 1 50 

Fuller — Domestic Water Supplies for the Farm 8vo, *1 50 

Graves — Forest Mensuration Svo, 4 00 

Principles of Handling Woodlands Small Svo, *1 50 

Green — Principles of American Forestry 12mo, 1 50 

Grotenfelt — Principles of Modern Dairy Practice. (WoLL.) 12mo, 2 00 

Ha\vley and Hawes — Forestry in New England Svo, *3 50 

Herrick — Denatured or Industrial Alcohol Svo, *4 00 

Kemp and Waugh— -Landscape Gardening. (New Edition, Rewritten). . 12mo, *1 50 

Larsen and White — Dairy Technology Small Svo, *1 50 

McKay and Larsen — Principles and Practice of Butter-making Svo, *1 50 

Maynwrd — Landscape Gardening as Applied to Home Decoration. . . 12mo, 1 50 
Record — Identification of the Economic Woods of the United States.. .Svo, *1 25 
Recknagel — Theory and Practice of Working Plans (Forest Organi- 
zation) '. Un Press.) 

Sanderson — Insect Pests of Farm, Garden, and Orchard Small Svo, *3 00 

Insects Injurious to Staple Crops 12mo, 1 50 

ScH\v.A.RZ — Longleaf Pine in Virgin Forest 12mo, *1 25 

Solotaroff — Field Book for Street-tree Mapping 12mo, *0 75 

In lots of one dozen *S 00 

Shade Trees in Towns and Cities Svo, ♦S 00 

Stockbridge — Rocks and Soils Svo, 2 50 

WiNTON — Microscopy of Vegetable Foods ; Large Svo, 7 50 

Woll — Handbook for Farme'^-' and Dairymen 16mo, 1 50 

ARCHITECTURE. 

Atkinson — Orientation of Buildings or Planning for Sunlight Svo, *2 00 

Baldwin — Steam Heating for Buildings 12mo, 2 50 

Berg — Buildings and Structures of American Railroads 4tQ, 5 00 

1 



BiRKMiRE — Architectural Iron and Steel 8vo, $3 50 

Compound Riveted Girders as Applied in Buildings 8vo, 2 00 

Planning and Construction of High Office Buildings 8voi 3 50 

Skeleton Construction in Buildings 8vo, 3 GO 

Briggs — Modern American School Buildings 8vo, 4 GO 

Byrne — Inspection of Materials and Workmanship Employed in Construc- 
tion 16mo. 3 00 

Carpenter — Heating and Ventilating of Buildings 8vo, 4 00 

CoRTHELL — Allowable Pressure on Deep Foundations 12mo, *1 25 

Eckel — Building Stones and Clays 8vo, ^3 GO 

Freitag — Architectural Engineering 8vo, 3 50 

Fire Prevention and Fire Protection 16mo, mor., ■*4 GO 

Fireproofing of Steel Buildings 8vo, 2 50 

Gerhard — Guide to Sanitary Inspections 12mo, 1 50 

Modern Baths and Bath Houses 8vo, *3 00 

Sanitation of Public Buildings 12mo, 1 50 

Theatre Fires and Panics 12mo, 1 50 

The Water Supply, Sewerage and Plumbing of Modern City Buildings, 

8vo, *4 00 

Greene — Elements of Heating and Ventilation 8vo, *2 50 

Johnson — Statics by Algebraic and Graphic Methods 8vo, 2 GO 

Kellaway — How to Lay Out Suburban Home Grounds 8vo, 2 00 

Kidder — Architects' and Builders' Pocket-book 16mo, mor., 5 GO 

Merrill — Stones for Building and Decoration 8vo, 5 00 

MoNCKTON — Stair-building 4to, 4 GO 

Patton — Practical Treatise on Foundations 8vo, 5 GO 

Peabody — Naval Architecture 8vo, 7 50 

Rice — Concrete-block Manufacture 8vo, 2 00 

RiCHEY — Handbook for Superintendents of Construction 16mo, mor., 4 GO 

Building Foreman's Pocket Book and Ready Reference.. . . 16mo, mor., 5 GO 
Building Mechanics' Ready Reference Series: * 

Carpenters' and Woodworkers' Edition 16mo, mor., ^l 50 

Cement Workers' and Plasterers' Edition 16mo, mor., *l 50 

Plumbers', Steam-Fitters', and Tinners' Edition 16mo, mor., *! 50 

Stone- and Brick-masons' Edition 16mo, mor., *1 50 

RiES — Building Stones and Clay Products 8vo, *3 00 

Sabin — House Painting (Glazing, Paper Hanging and Whitewashing) . 12mo, 1 00 

SiEBERT and Biggin — Modern Stone-cutting and Masonry 8vo, 1 50 

Snow — Principal Species of Wood 8vo, 3 50 

Wait — Engineering and Architectural Jurisprudence 8vo, 6 GO 

Sheep, 6 50 

Law of Contracts 8vo, 3 GO 

Law of Operations Preliminary to Construction in Engineering and 

Architecture 8vo, 5 00 

Sheep, 5 50 

Wilson — Air Conditioning .^ 12mo, 1 50 

Worcester and Atkinson — Small Hospitals, Establishment and Mainte- 
nance, Suggestions for Hospital Architecture, with Plans for a Small 
Hospital .• 12mo, 1 25 



ASSAYING. 

Betts — Lead Refining by Electrolysis 8vo, 4 GO 

Fletcher — Practical Instructions in Quantitative Assaying with the Blow- 
pipe IGmo, mor., 1 50 

FuRMAN and Pardoe — Manual of Practical Assaying 8vo, 3 GO 

Lodge — Notes on Assaying and Metallurgical Laboratory Experiments . 8vo, 3 GO 

Low — Technical Methods of Ore Analysis 8vo, 3 GO 

Miller — Cyanide Process 12mo, 1 GO 

Manual of Assaying 12mo, 1 00 

MiNET — Production of Aluminum and its Industrial Use. (Waldo).. 12mo, 2 50 
Price and Meade — The Technical Analysis of Brass and the Non-Ferrous 

Alloys 12mo, *2 GO 

RiCKETTS and Miller — Notes on Assaying 8vo, 3 GO 

RoBiNE and Lenglen — Cyanide Industry. (Le Clerc.) 8vo. 4 00 

Seamon — Manual for Assayers and Chemists Small Svo, *2 50 

2 



Ulke — Modern Electrolytic Copper Refining 8vo, $3 00 

Wilson — Chlorination Process 12mo, 1 50 

Cyanide Processes 12mo, 1 50 



ASTRONOMY. 

CoMSTOCK — Field Astronomy for Engineers 8vo, 2 50 

Craig — Azimuth 4to, 3 50 

Crandall — Text-book on Geodesy and Least Squares 8vo, 3 OO 

DooLiTTLE — 'Treatise on Practical Astronomy 8vo, 4 00' 

Hayford — Text-book of Geodetic Astronomy 8vo, 3 00- 

HosMER — Azimuth 16mo, mor., 1 OO 

Text-book on Practical Astronomy 8vo, *2 OO 

Merriman — Elements of Precise Surveying and Geodesy 8vo, 2 50 

MiCHiE and Harlow — Practical Astronomy 8vo. *3 00 

Rust — Ex-meridian Altitude, Azimuth and Star-Finding Tables 8vo, 5 00 

White — Elements of Theoretical and Descriptive Astronomy 12mo, *2 00 



BIOLOGY. 

COHNHEIM — Enzymes 12mo, *1 50 

Davenport — Statistical Methods with Special Reference to Biological 

Variation 16mo, mor., 1 50 

Effront and Prescott — Enzymes and Their Applications 8vo, 3 00 

EuLER and Pope — General Chemistry of the Enzymes 8vo, *3 00 

Mast — Light and Behavior of Organisms 8vo, *2 50 

Prescott and Winslow — Elements of Water Bacteriology, with Special 

Reference to Sanitary Water Analysis 12mo, 1 50 

Ward and Whipple — Freshwater Biology {In Press.) 

Whipple — The Microscopy of Drinking Water Svo, 3 50 

Winslow — The Systematic Relationship of the Coccaceae Small Svo, 2 50 



CHEMISTRY. 

Abderhalden — Physiological Chemistry in Thirty Lectures. (Hall and 

Defren) Svo, *5 00 

Abegg — Theory of Electrolytic Dissociation, (von Ende.) 12mo, *1 25 

Alexeyeff — General Principles of Organic Syntheses. (Matthews.). .Svo, 3 00 
Allen — Exercises in General Chemistry, Loose Leaf Laboratory Manual. 

Oblong 4to, paper, *1 00 

Tables for Iron Analysis Svo, 3 00 

Armsby — Principles of Animal Nutrition Svo, 4 00 

Arnold — Compendium of Chemistry. (Mandel.) Small Svo, 3 50 

Association of St.\te and National Food and Dairy Departments, 

Hartford Meeting, 1906 Svo, 3 00 

Jamestown Meeting, 1907 Svo, 3 00 

Austen — Notes for Chemical Students 12mo, 1 50 

Bernadou — Smokeless Powder. — Nitro-cellulose, and Theory of the Cellu- 
lose Molecule 12mo, 2 50 

Biltz — Introduction to Inorganic Chemistry. (Hall and Phelan.).. 12mo, *! 25 

Laboratory Methods of Inorganic Chemistry. (Hall and Blanchard.) 

Svo, 3 00 
Bingham and White — Laboratory Manual of Inorganic Chemistry. . . . 12mo, *1 00 

Blanchard — Synthetic Inorganic Chemistry 12mo, *1 00 

Bottler — German and American Varnish Making. (Sabix.).. . Small Svo, *3 50 
Browne — Handbook of Sugar Analysis Svo, *6 00 

Sugar Tables for Laboratory Use Svo, *1 25 

Browning — Introduction to the Rarer Elements Svo, *1 50 

Brunswig — Explosives. (Munroe and Kibler) Small Svo, *3 00 

Claassen — Beet-sugar Manufacture. (Hall and Rolfe.) Svo, *3 00 

Cl.\ssen — Quantitative Analysis by Electrolysis. (Hall.) {In Press.) 

3 



CoHN — Indicators and Test-papers 12mo, $2 00 

Tests and Reagents .' gvoi 3 00 

Cooper— Constitutional Analysis by Physico-chemical Methods (Inorganic),' 

{In Press.) 

Danneel — Electrochemistry. (Merriam.) 12mo, 

Dannerth — Methods of Textile Chemistry 12mo, 

DuHEM — Thermodynamics and Chemistry. (Burgess.) 8voi 

EissLER — Modern High Explosives 8vo! 

Ekeley — Laboratory Manual of Inorganic Chemistry 12moi 

Fletcher — Practical Instructions in Quantitative Assaying with the Blow- 

Pipe 16mo, mor., 

Fowler — Sewage Works Analyses 12mo, 

Fresenius — Manual of Qualitative Chemical Analysis. (Wells.) 8vo! 

Manual of Qualitative Chemical Analysis. Part I. Descriptive. 
(Wells.) 8vo, 

Quantitative Chemical Analysis. (Cohn.) 2 vols Svo, 

When Sold Separately, Vol. I, $6. Vol. II, $8. 

FuERTES — Water and Public Health 12mo, 

Fuller — Qualitative Analysis of Medicinal Preparations 12mo, 

FuRMAN and Pardoe — Manual of Practical Assaying Svo, 

Getman — Exercises in Physical Chemistry 12mo, *2 

Gill — Gas and Fuel Analysis for Engineers 12mo, 

GoocH — Methods in Chemical Analysis Svo, 

and Browning — Outlines of Qualitative Chemical Analysis. . Small Svo. 

Grotenfelt — Principles of Modern Dairy Practice. (Woll.) 12mo, 

Groth — Introduction to Chemical Crystallography. (Marshall.).. . 12mo, 
Hammarsten — Text-book of Physiological Chemistry. (Mandel.) . . . .Svo, 

Hanausek — Microscopy of Technical Products. (Winton.) Svo, 

Haskins — Organic Chemistry 12mo, 

Herrick — Denatured or Industrial Alcohol , . . .Svo, 

Hinds — Inorganic Chemistry Svo, 

Laboratory Manual for Students 12mo, 

Holleman — Laboratory Manual of Organic Chemistry for Beginners. 
(Walker.) 12mo, 

Text-book of Inorganic Chemistry. (Cooper.) Svo, 

Text-book of Organic Chemistry. (Walker and Mott.) Svo, 

(Ekeley) ' Laboratory Manual to Accompany Holleman's Text-book of 

Inorganic Chemistry 12mo, ^l 00 

Holley — Analysis of Paint and Varnish Products Small, Svo, *2 50 

Lead and Zinc Pigments Small Svo, *3 00 

Hopkins — Oil-chemists' Handbook Svo, 

Jackson — Directions for Laboratory Work in Physiological Chemistry. .Svo, 
Johnson — Rapid Methods for the Chemical Analysis of Special Steels, Steel- 
making Alloys and Graphite Small Svo, 

Landauer — Spectrum Analysis. (Tingle.) Svo, 

Lassar-Cohn — Application of Some General Reactions to Investigations in 

Organic Chemistry. (Tingle.) 12mo, 

Leach — Food Inspection and Analysis Svo, 

LoB — Electrochemistry of Organic Compounds. (Lorenz.) Svo, 

Lodge — Notes on Assaying and Metallurgical Laboratory Experiments . . Svo, 

Low — Technical Method of Ore Analysis . Svo, 

Lowe — Paint for Steel Structures 12mo, 

Lunge — Techno-chemical Analysis. (Cohn.) 12mo, 

McKay and Larsen — Principles and Practice of Butter-making Svo, 

Maire — Modern Pigments and their Vehicles 12mo, 

Mandel — Handbook for Bio-chemical Laboratory 12mo, 

Martin — Laboratory Guide to Qualitative Analysis with the Blowpipe. 12mo, 
Mason — Examination of Water. (Chemical and Bacteriological.).. . .12mo, 

Water-supply. (Considered Principally from a Sanitary Standpoint.) 

Svo, 

Mathewson — First Principles of Chemical Theory Svo, 

Matthews — Laboratory Manual of Dyeing and Textile Chemistry Svo, 

Textile Fibres 8vo, 

Meyer — Determination of Radicles in Carbon Compounds. (Tingle.) 

Third Edition 12mo, 

Miller — Cyanide Process 12mo, 

Manual of Assaying 12mo, 

4 



*1 


25 


2 


00 


4 


00 


4 


00 


*1 


00 


1 


50 


2 


00 


5 


00 


3 


00 


12 


50 


1 


50 


*1 


50 


3 


00 


*2 00 


1 


25 


•4 


00 


*1 


25 


2 


00 


1 


25 


•4 


00 


5 


00 


*2 


00 


•4 


00 


3 


00 


*1 


00 


*1 


00 


2 


50 


2 


50 



3 


00 


1 


25 


3 


00 


3 


00 


1 


00 


7 


50 


3 


00 


3 


00 


3 


00 


1 


00 


1 


00 


*1 


50 


2 


00 


1 


50 


*0 60 


1 


25 


4 


00 


*1 


00 


3 


50 


4 


00 


*1 


25 


1 


00 


1 


00 



♦1 


50 


1 


50 


3 


00 


*1 


50 


*0 50 


*1 


50 


1 


50 


♦4 00 



MiNET — Production of Aluminum and its Industrial Use. (Waldo.) . . 12mo, |2 50 
MiTTELSTAEDT — Technical Calculations for Sugar Works. (Bourbakis.) 

12mo, 

MiXTER — Elementary Text-book of Chemistry 12mo. 

Morgan — Elements of Physical Chemistry 12mo, 

Physical Chemistry for Electrical Engineers 12mo, 

Moore — Experiments in Organic Chemistry 12mo, 

Outlines of Organic Chemistry 12mo, 

Morse — Calculations used in Cane-sugar Factories 16mo, mor., 

MuiR — History of Chemical Theories and Laws. . . •. 8vo, 

MULLIKEN — General Method for the Identification of Pure Organic Com- — 

pounds. Vol. I. Compounds of Carbon with Hydrogen and 
Oxygen Large 8vo, 5 00 

Vol. II. Nitrogenous Compounds {In Preparation.) 

Vol. III. The Commercial Dyestufifs Large 8vo, 

Nelson — Analysis of Drugs and Medicines 12mo, ^S 

OsTWALD — Conversations on Chemistry. Part One. (Ramsey.). • • . 12mo, 

Part Two. (TuRNBULL.).12mo. 

Introduction to Chemistry. (Hall and Williams.) Small Svo, 

Owen and Standage — Dyeing and Cleaning of Textile Fabrics 12mo, 

Palmer — Practical Test Book of Chemistry 12mo, 

Pauli — Physical Chemistry in the Service of Medicine. (Fischer.).. 12mo, 

PiCTET — Alkaloids and their Chemical Constitution. (Biddle.) Svo, 

Prescott and Winslow — Elements of Water Bacteriology, with Special 

Reference to Sanitary Water Analysis 12mo, 

Reisig — Guide to Piece-Dyeing Svo, *25 

Richards and Woodman — Air, Water, and Food from a Sanitary Stand- 
point Svo, 

RiCKETTS and Miller — Notes on Assaying Svo, 

Rideal — Disinfection and the Preservation of Food Svo, 

Riggs — Elementary Manual for the Chemical Laboratory Svo, 

RoBiNE and Lenglen — Cyanide Industry. (Le Clerc.) Svo, 

Ruddiman — Incompatibilities in Prescriptions Svo, 

Whys in Pharmacy 12mo, 

Ruer — Elements of Metallography. (Mathewson.) Svo, 

Sabin — Industrial and Artistic Technology of Paint and Varnish Svo, 

Salkowski — Physiological and Pathological Chemistry. (Orndorff.). . .Svo, 
ScHiMPF — Essentials of Volumetric Analysis Small Svo, 

Manual of Volumetric Analysis Svo, 

Qualitative Chemical Analysis Svo, *1 25 

Seamon — Manual for Assayers and Chemists Small Svo, ♦2 50 

Smith — Lecture Notes on Chemistry for Dental Students Svo, *2 50 

Spencer — Handbook for Cane Sugar Manufacturers 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Handbook for Chemists of Beet-sugar Houses 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Stockbridge — Rocks and Soils Svo, 2 50 

Stone — Practical Testing of Gas and Gas Meters Svo, 3 50 

Tillman — Descriptive General Chemistry Svo, *3 00 

Elementary Lessons in Heat Svo, *! 50 

Treadwell — Qualitative Analysis. (Hall.) Svo, 3 (X) 

Quantitative Analysis. (Hall.) Svo, 4 00 

Turneaure and Russell — Public Water-supplies Svo, 5 (X) 

Van Deventer — Physical Chemistry for Beginners. (Boltwood.) . . 12mo, 1 50 
Venable — Methods and Devices for Bacterial Treatment of Sewage. . .Svo, 3 00 

Ward and Whipple — Freshwater Biology (In Press.) 

Ware — Beet-sugar Manufacture and Refining. Vol. I Svo, 4 00 

Vol. II Svo, 5 00 

Washington — Manual of the Chemical Analysis of Rocks Svo, 2 00 

Weaver — Military Explosives Svo, *3 00 

Wells — Laboratory Guide in Qualitative Chemical Analysis Svo, 1 50 

Short Course in Inorganic Qualitative Chemical Analysis for Engineering 

Students 12mo, 1 50 

Text-book of Chemical Arithmetic 12mo, 1 25 

Whipple — Microscopy of Drinking-water Svo, 3 50 

Wilson — Chlorination Process 12mo, 1 50 

Cyanide Processes 12mo, 1 50 

WiNTON — Microscopy of Vegetable Foods Svo, 7 50 

Zsigmondy — Colloids and the Ultramicroscope. (Alexander.) . Large 12mo, 3 00 

5 



*3 00 


1 


50 


2 


00 


*1 


50 


2 


00 


*1 


00 


*1 


25 


5 


00 


1 


50 


'25 


00 


2 


00 


3 


00 


4 


00 


1 


25 


4 


00 


2 


00 


1 


00 


*3 


00 


3 


00 


2 


50 


•l 


50 


5 


00^. 



CIVIL ENQINEERINQ. 

BRIDGES AND ROOFS, HYDRAULICS. MATERIALS OF ENGINEER- 
ING. RAILWAY ENGINEERING. 

American Civil Engineers' Pocket Book. (Mansfield Merriman, 

Editor-in-chief.) 16mo, mor.,*S5 00 

Baker — Engineers' Surveying Instruments 12mo, 3 00 

BiXBV — Graphical Computing Table Paper 19^ X24i inches, 25 

Breed and Hosmer — Principles and Practice of Surveying. 

Vol. I. Elementary Surveying 8vo, 3 00 

Vol. II. Higher Surveying 8vo, 2 50 

Burr — Ancient and Modern Engineering and the Isthmian Canal 8vo, *3 50 

CoMSTOCK — Field Astronomy for Engineers Svo, 2 50 

Cortiiell — Allowable Pressure on Deep Foundations 12mo, *1 25 

Crandall — Text-book on Geodesy and Least Squares Svo, 3 00 

Davis — Elevation and Stadia Tables Svo, 1 00 

Elliott — Engineering for Land Drainage 12mo, 2 00 

Fiebeger — Treatise on Civil Engineering Svo, *o 00 

Flemer — Phototopographic Methods and Instruments Svo, 5 00 

FoLWELL — Sewerage. (Designing and Maintenance.) Svo, 3 00 

Freitag — Architectural Engineering Svo, 3 50 

Hauch and Rice — Tables of Quantities for Preliminary Estimates. . . 12mo, *1 25 

Hayford — Text-book of Geodetic Astronomy Svo, 3 00 

Hering — Ready Reference Tables (Conversion Factors.) 16mo, mor., 2 50 

Hosmer — Azimuth 16mo, mor., 1 00 

Text-book on Practical Astronomy Svo, *2 00 

Howe — -Retaining Walls for Earth 12mo, 1 25 

Ives — Adjustments of the Engineer's Transit and Level ,16mo, bds., *0 25 

Ives and Hilts — Problems in Surveying, Railroad Surveying and Geod- 
esy 16mo, mor., 1 50 

Johnson (J. B.) and Smith — Theory and Practice of Surveying . Small Svo, *3 50 

Johnson (L. J.) — Statics by Algebraic and Graphic Methods Svo, 2 00 

KiNNicuTT, WiNSLOW and Pratt — Sewage Disposal Svo, *3 00 

Mahan — Descriptive Geometry Svo, *1 50 

Merriman — Elements of Precise Surveying and Geodesy Svo, 2 50 

Merriman and Brooks — Handbook for Surveyors 16mo, mor., 2 00 

Nugent — Plane Surveying Svo, 3 50 

Ogden — Sewer Construction Svo, 3 00 

Sewer Design 12mo, 2 00 

Ogden and Cleveland — Practical Methods of Sewage Disposal for Resi- 
dences, Hotels, and Institutions Svo, *1 50 

Parsons — Disposal of Municipal Refuse Svo, 2 00 

Patton — Treatise on Civil Engineering Svo, half leather, 7 50 

Reed — Topographical Drawing and Sketching 4to, 5 00 

Riemer — Shaft-sinking under Difficult Conditions. (CoRNiNG^nd Peele.) 

Svo, 3 00 

Siebert and Biggin — Modern Stone-cutting and Masonry Svo, 1 50 

Smith — Manual of Topographical Drawing. (McMillan.) Svo, 2 50 

SoPER — Air and Ventilation of Subways 12mo, 2 50 

Tracy — E.xercises in Surveying 12mo, mor., *1 00 

Plane Surveying 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Venable — Garbage Crematories in America Svo, 2 00 

Methods and Devices for Bacterial Treatment of Sewage Svo, 3 00 

Wait — Engineering and Architectural Jurisprudence Svo, 6 00 

Sheep. 6 50 

Law of Contracts - Svo, 3 00 

Law of Operations Preliminary to Construction in Engineering and 

Architecture Svo, 5 00 

Sheep, 5 50 

Warren — Stereotomy — Problems in Stone-cutting. . . • Svo, 2 50 

Waterbury — Vest-Pocket Hand-book of Mathematics for Engineers. 

2J X5| inches, mor., *1 00 

Enlarged Edition, Including Tables mor., *1 50 

Webb — Problems in the Use and Adjustment of Engineering Instruments. 

16mo, mor., 1 25 

Wilson — Topographic, Trigonometric and Geodetic Surveying Svo, 3 50 

6 



BRIDGES AND ROOFS. 

Bishop — Structural Details of Hip and Valley Rafters... Oblong large 8vo. *S1 75 
BoLLER — Practical Treatise on the Construction of Iron Highway Bridges 

8vo, 2 00 

Thames River Bridge Oblong paper. *5 00 

Burr and F.\lk — Design and Construction of Metallic Bridges 8vo, 5 00 

Influence Lines for Bridge and Roof Computations Svo, 3 00 

Du Bois — Mechanics of Engineering. Vol. II Small 4to. 10 00 

Foster — Treatise on "Wooden Trestle Bridges 4to, 5 00 

Fowler — Ordinary Foundations Svo, 3 50 

Greene — Arches in Wood, Iron, and Stone Svo, 2 50 

Bridge Trusses Svo, 2 50 

Roof Trusses Svo, 1 25 

Grimm — Secondary Stresses in Bridge Trusses Svo, 2 50 

Heller — Stresses in Structures and the Accompanying Deformations. .Svo, 3 00 

Howe — Design of Simple Roof -trusses in Wood and Steel Svo, 2 00 

Symmetrical Masonry Arches Svo, 2 50 

Treatise on Arches Svo, 4 00 

Hudson — Deflections and Statically Indeterminate Stresses Small 4to, *3 50 

Plate Girder Design Svo, *1 50 

Jacoby — Structural Details, or Elements of Design in Heavy Framing. Svo, *2 25 
Johnson, Bryan and Turneaure — Theory and Practice in the Designing of 
Modem Framed Structures. New Edition. 

Part I. Stresses in Simple Structures Svo, *3 00 

Part II. Statically Indeterminate Structures and Secondary Stresses 

Svo, ^4 00 
Merriman and Jacoby — Text -book on Roofs and Bridges: 

Part I. Stresses in Simple Trusses Svo, 2 50 

Part II. Graphic Statics Svo, 2 50 

Part III. Bridge Design Svo. 2 50 

Part IV. Higher Structures • . . . Svo, 2 .50 

Ricker — Design and Construction of Roofs Svo, 5 00 

Sondericker — Graphic Statics, with Applications to Trusses, Beams, and 

Arches Svo, *2 00 

Waddell — De Pontibus, Pocket-book for Bridge Engineers. . . . 16mo. mor.. 2 00 
Specifications for Steel Bridges 12mo, *0 50 

HYDRAULICS. 

Barnes — Ice Formation Svo, 3 00 

Bazin — Experiments upon the Contraction of the Liquid Vein Issuing from 

an Orifice. (Trautwine.) Svo, 2 00 

BovEY — Treatise on Hydraulics Svo, 5 00 

Church — Diagrams of Mean Velocity of Water in Open Channels. 

Oblong 4to, paper, 1 50 

Hydraulic Motors Svo, 2 00 

Mechanics of Fluids (Being Part IV of Mechanics of Engineering) . . Svo, 3 00 

COFKIN — Graphical Solution of Hydraulic Problems 16mo. mor., 2 50 

Flather — Dynamometers, and the Measurement of Power 12mo, 3 00 

FoLWELL — Water-supply Engineering Svo, 4 00 

Frizell — Water-power Svo, 5 00 

Fuertes — Water and Public Health 12mo, 1 50 

Fuller — Domestic Water Supplies for the Farm Svo, *1 50 

Ganguillet and Kutter — General Formula for the Uniform Flow of Water 

in Rivers and Other Channels. (Hering and Trautwine.). . .Svo, 4 00 

Hazen — Clean Water and How to Get It Small Svo, 1 50 

Filtration of Public Water-supplies Svo. 3 00 

Hazelhurst — Towers and Tanks for Water-works Svo, 2 50 

Herschel — 115 Experiments on the Carrying Capacity of Large. Riveted, 

Metal Conduits Svo, 2 00 

HoYT and Grover — River Discharge Svo, 2 00 

Hubb.\rd and Kiersted — Water- works Management and Maintenance, Svo, 4 00 
Lyndon — Development and Electrical Distribution of Water Power.. Svo, *3 00 
Mason — Water-supply. (Considered Principally from a Sanitary Stand- 
point.) Svo, 4 00 

Merriman — Elements of Hydraulics 12mo. *1 00 

Treatise on Hydraulics. 9th Edition, Rewritten Svo, *4 00 

7 



MoLiTOR — Hydraulics of Rivers, Weirs and Sluices 8vo,*S2 00 

Morrison and Brodie — High Masonry Dam Design 8vo, *! 50 

Schuyler — Reservoirs for Irrigation, Water-power, and Domestic Water 

supply. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged Large 8vo, 6 00 

Thomas and Watt — Improvement of Rivers 4to, *6 00 

Turneaure and Russell — Public Water-supplies 8vo, 5 00 

Wegmann — Design and Construction of Dams. 6th Ed., enlarged 4to, *6 00 

Water Supply of the City of New York from 1658 to 1895 4to, 10 00 

Whipple — Value of Pure Water Small 8vo, 1 00 

Williams and Hazen — Hydraulic Tables 8vo, 1 50 

Wilson- — Irri-^ation Engineering 8vo, 4 00 

Wood— Turbines 8vo, 2 50 

MATERIALS OF ENGINEERING. 

Baker — Roads and Pavements 8vo, 5 00 

Treatise on Masonry Construction 8vo, 5 00 

Black — United States Public Works Oblong 4to, 5 00 

Blanchard — Bituminous Surfaces and Bituminous Pavements, (/w Preparation.) 

and Drowne — Highway Engineering, as Presented at the Second 

International Road Congress, Brussels, 1910 8vo, *2 00 

Text-book on Highway Engineering {In Press.) 

Bottler — German and American Varnish Making. (Sabin.) . . . Small 8vo, *3 50 

Burr — Elasticity and Resistance of the Materials of Engineering 8vo, 7 50 

Byrne — Highway Construction 8vo, 5 00 

Inspection of the Materials and Workmanship Employed in Construction. 

16mo, 3 00 
Church — Mechanics of Engineering 8vo, 6 00 

Mechanics of Solids (Being Parts I, II, III of Mechanics of Engineer- 
ing) 8vo, 4 50 

Mechanics of Fluids (Being Part IV of Mechanics of Engineering) . 8vo, 3 00 
Du Bois — Mechanics of Engineering: i 

Vol. I. Kinematics, Statics, Kinetics Small 4to, 7^50 

Vol. II. The Stresses in Framed Structures, Strength of Materials and 

Theory of Flexures Small 4to, 10 00 

Eckel — Building Stones and Clays 8vo, *3 00 

Cements, Limes, and Plasters 8vo, *6 00 

Fowler — Ordinary Foundations 8vo, 3 50 

Fuller and Johnston — Applied Mechanics: 

Vol. I. Theory of Statics and Kinetics {In Press.) 

Vol. II. Strength of Materials {In Preparation.) 

Greene — Structural Mechanics 8vo, *2 50 

HoLLEY — Analysis of Paint and Varnish Products Small 8vo, *2 50 

Lead and Zinc Pigments Small 8vo. *3 00 

Hubbard — Dust Preventives and Road Binders 8vo, *3 00 

Johnson (J. B.) — Materials of Construction Large 8vo, 6 00 

Keep— Cast Iron < 8vo, 2 50 

King — Elements of the Mechanics of Materials and of Power of Transmis- 
sion 8vo, *2 50 

Lanza — Applied Mechanics 8vo, 7 50 

Lowe — Paints for Steel Structures 12mo, 1 00 

Maire — Modern Pigments and their Vehicles 12mo, 2 00 

Maurer — Technical Mechanics 8vo, 4 00 

Merrill — Stones for Building and Decoration 8vo, 5 00 

Merriman — Mechanics of Materials 8vo, 5 00 

Strength of Materials 12mo, *1 00 

Metcalf — Steel. A Manual for Steel-users 12mo, 2 00 

Morrison — Highway Engineering 8vo, 2 50 

MuRDOCK — Strength of Materials 12mo, *2 00 

Patton — Practical Treatise on Foundations 8vo, 5 00 

Rice — Concrete Block Manufacture 8vo, 2 00 

Richardson — Modern Asphalt Pavement 8vo, 3 00 

Richey — Building Foreman's Pocket Book and Ready Reference . 16mo.mor., 5 00 

Cement Workers' and Plasterers' Edition (Building Mechanics' Ready 

Reference Series) 16mo, mor., *1 50 

Handbook for Superintendents of Construction 16mo, mor., 4 00 

Stone and Brick Masons' Edition (Building Mechanics' Ready Reference 

Series) 16mo, mor., *1 50 

8 



RiES — Building Stones and Clay Products 8vo.*$3 00 

Clays: Their Occurrence, Properties, and Uses 8vo, *5 00 

and Leighton — History of the Clay-working Industry of the United 

States 8vo, *2 50 

Sabin — Industrial and Artistic Technology of Paint and Varnish 8vo, 3 00 

Smith — Strength of Material ^ 12nio, *1 25 

Snow — Principal Species of Wood ' . . . 8vo, 3 50 

Spalding — Hydraulic Cement 12nio, 2 00 

Text-book on Road and Pavements 12mo, *2 00 

Taylor and Thompson — Concrete Costs Small 8vo, *5 00 

Extracts on Reinforced Concrete Design 8vo, *2 00 

Treatise on Concrete, Plain and Reinforced 8vo, 5 00 

Thurston — Materials of Engineering. In Three Parts 8vo, 8 00 

Part I. Non-metallic Materials of Engineering and Metallurgy. . .8vo, 2 00 

Part II. Iron and Steel 8vo, 3 50 

Part III. A Treatise on Brasses, Bronzes, and Other Alloys and their 

Constituents 8vo, 2 50 

TiLLSON — Street Pavements and Paving Materials 8vo, *4 00 

Turneaure and Maurer — Principles of Reinforced Concrete Construction. 

8vo, 3 50 

Waterbury — Cement Laboratory Manual 12mo, 1 00 

Laboratory Manual for Testing Materials of Construction 12mo, *1 50 

Wood (De V.) Treatise on the Resistance of Materials, and an Appendix on 

the Preservation of Timber 8vo, 2 00 

(M. P.) — Rustless Coatings: Corrosion and Electrolysis of Iron and 

Steel Svo, 4 00 

RAILWAY ENGINEERING. 

Berg — Buildings and Structures of American Railroads 4to, 5 00 

Brooks — Handbook of Street Railroad Location 16mo, mor., 1 50 

Burt — Railway Station Service 12mo, *2 00 

Butts — Civil Engineer's Field-book 16mo, mor., 2 50 

Crandall — Railway and Other Earthwork Tables Svo, 1 50 

and Barnes — Railroad Surveying 16mo, mor., 2 00 

Crockett — Methods for Earthwork Computations Svo, *1 50 

Dredge — History of the Pennsylvania Railroad. (1879) Paper, 5 00 

Fish — Earthwork Haul and Overhaul {In Press.) 

Fisher — Table of Cubic Yards Cardboard, 25 

Gilbert, Wightman and Saunders — Subways and Tunnels of New York. 

Svo, *4 00 

Godwin — Railroad Engineers' Field-book and Explorers' Guide. .16mo, mor., 2 50 
Hudson — Tables for Calculating the Cubic Contents of Excavations and 

Embankments. -. Svo, 1 00 

Ives and Hilts — Problems in Surveying, Railroad Surveying and Geodesy. 

16mo, mor., 1 50 

MOLITOR and Beard — Manual for Resident Engineers 16mo, 1 00 

Nagle — Field Manual for Railroad Engineers 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Orrock — Railroad Structures and Estimates Svo, *3 00 

Philbrick — Field Manual for Engineers 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Raymond — Elements of Railroad Engineering Svo, 3 50 

Railroad Engineer's Field Book (In Preparation.) 

Railroad Field Geometry 16mo, mor., 2 00 

Roberts — Track Formulas and Tables 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Searles — Field Engineering 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Railroad Spiral 16mo, mor., 1 50 

Taylor — Prismoidal Formulae and Earthwork Svo, 1 50 

Webb — Economics of Railroad Construction Small Svo, 2 50 

Railroad Construction 16mo, mor., 5 00 

Wellington — Economic Theory of the Location of Railways Small Svo, 5 00 

Wilson — Elements of Railroad-Track and Construction. 12nio, 2 00 



DRAWING. 

Barr and Wood — Kinematics of Machinery. . 8vo, $2 50 

Bartlett — Mechanical Drawing. Third Edition 8vo, *3 00 

Abridgment of the Second Edition.. . .8vo, *1 50 

aifd Johnson — Engineering Descriptive Geometry 8vo, *1 50 

Bishop — Structural Details of Hip and Valley Rafters. . . .Oblong large 8vo, *1 75 

Blessing and Darling — Descriptive Geometry 8vo, *1 50 

Elements of Drawing 8vo, *1 50 

CooLiDGE — Manual of Drawing 8vo. paper, 1 00 

and Freeman — Elements of General Drafting for Mechanical Engineers 

Oblong 4to, 2 50 

buRLEY — Kinematics of Machines 8vo, 4 00 

Emch — Introduction to Projective Geometry and its Application 8vo, 2 50 

French and Ives — Stereotomy 8vo, 2 50 

Hill — Text-book on Shades and Shadows, and Perspective 8vo, 2 00 

Jamison — Advanced Mechanical Drawing 8vo, 2 00 

Elements of Mechanical Drawing 8vo, 2 50 

Jones — Machine Design: 

Part I. Kinematics of Machinery. . 8vo, 1 50 

Part II. Form, Strength, and Proportions of Parts 8vo, 3 00 

Kimball and Barr — Machine Design 8vo, *3 00 

MacCord — Elements of Descriptive Geometry 8vo, 3 00 

Kinematics; or. Practical Mechanism 8vo, 5 00 

Mechanical Drawing 4to, 4 00 

Velocity Diagrams 8vo, 1 .50 

McLeod — Descriptive Geometry Small 8vo, 1 50 

Mahan — Descriptive Geometry and Stone-cutting 8vo, *1 .50 

Industrial Drawing. (Thompson.) 8vo, 3 50 

Mover — Descriptive Geometry 8vo, 2 00 

Reed — Topographical Drawing and Sketching 4to, 5 00 

Reid — Mechanical Drawing. (Elementary and Advanced.) 8vo, *2 00 

Text-book of Mechanical Drawing and Elementary Machine Design . 8vo, 3 00 

Robinson — Principles of Mechanism 8vo, 3 00 

ScHWAMB and Merrill — Elements of Mechanism 8vo, 3 00 

Smith (A. W.) and Marx — Machine Design 8vo, 3 00 

(R. S.) — Manual of Topographical Drawing. (McMillan.) 8vo, 2 50 

TiTSWORTH — Elements of Mechanical Drawing. ., Oblong large 8vo, *1 25 

Warren — Elements of Descriptive Geometry, Shadows, and Perspective. 8vo, 3 50 

Elements of Machine Construction and Drawing 8vo, 7 50 

Elements of Plane and Solid Fre6-hand Geometrical Drawing. . . . 12mo, 1 00 

General Problems of Shades and Shadows 8vo, 3 00 

Manual of Elementary Problems in the Linear Perspective of Forms and 

Shadows 12mo, 1 00 

Manual of Elementary Projection Drawing 12mo, 1 50 

Plane Problems in Elementary Geometry 12mo. 1 25 

Weisbach — Kinematics and Power of Transmission. (Herrmann and 

Klein.) 8vo, 5 00 

Wilson (H. M.) — Topographic, Trigonometric and Geodetic Surveying. 8vo, 3 50 

(V. T.) Descriptive Geometry 8vo, *1 50 

Free-hand Lettering 8vo, 1 00 

Free-hand Perspective 8vo, 2 50 

WooLF — Elementary Course in Descriptive Geometry Large 8vo, 3 00 



ELECTRICITY AND PHYSICS. 

Abegg — Theory of Electrolytic Dissociation. (voN Ende.) 12mo, 

Andrews — Hand-book for Street Railway Engineers 3 X5 inches, mor., 

Anthony and Ball — Lecture-notes on the Theory of Electrical Measure- 
ments 12mo, 

and Brackett — Text-book of Physics. (Magie.) Small 8vo, 

Benjamin — History of Electricity Svo, 

Betts — Lead Refining and Electrolysis 8vo, 

Burgess and Le Chatelier — Measurement of High Temperatures. Third 

Edition ., 8vo, *4 00 

Classen — Quantitative Analysis by Electrolysis. (Hall.) (In Press.) 

10 



*1 


25 


1 


25 


1 


00 


3 


00 


3 


00 


4 


00 



Coi'.Lixs — Manual of Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony 12mo,*|l 50 

Crehore and Squier — Polarizing Photo-chronograph 8vo, 3 00 

Daxneel — Electrochemistry. (Merriam.) 12mo. *1 25 

Dawson — " Engineering " and Electric Traction Pocket-book. . 16mo, mor., 5 00 
Dolezalek — Theory of the Lead Accumulator (Storage Battery). (voN . 

Ende.) 12mo, 2 50 

DuHEM — Thermodynamics and Chemistry. (Burgess.) 8vo, 4 00 

Flather — Dynamometers, and the Measurement of Power 12mo, 3 00 

Getman — Introduction to Physical Science 12mo, *1 50 

Gilbert — De Magnete. (Mottelay.) Svo. 2 50 

Hanchett — Alternating Currents 12mo, *1 00 

Hering — Ready Reference Tables (Conversion Factors) 16mo. mor., 2 50 

HoBART and Ellis — High-speed Dynamo Electric Machinery Svo, *6 00 

HoLMAN — Precision of Measurements Svo, 2 00 

Telescope- Mirror-scale Method, Adjustments, and Tests. . . .Large Svo, 75 
Hutchinson — High-Efficiency Electrical Illuminants* and Illumination. 

Small Svo, *2 50 

Jones — Electric Ignition for Combustion Motors Svo, *4 00 

Karapetoff — Experimental Electrical Engineering: 

Vol. I Svo, *3 50 

Vol. II Svo, *2 50 

Kinzbrunner — Testing of Continuous-current Machines Svo, 2 00 

Koch — Mathematics of Applied Electricity Small Svo, *3 00 

L.A.NDAUER — Spectrum Analysis. (Tingle.) Svo, 3 00 

Lauffer — Electrical Injuries 16mo, *0 50 

Lob — Electrochemistry of Organic Compounds. (Lorenz.) Svo, 3 00 

Lyndon — Development and Electrical Distribution of Water Power.. . .Svo, *3 00 
Lyons — Treatise on Electromagnetic Phenomena. Vols. I and II, Svo, each, *Q GO 

M.\rtin — Measurement of Induction Shocks 12mo, *1 25 

Michie — Elements of Wave Motion Relating to Sound and Light Svo, *4 00 

Morgan — Physical Chemistry for Electrical Engineers 12mo, *1 50 

XoRRis — Introduction to the Study of Electrical Engineering Svo, *2 50 

Parshall and Hobart — Electric Machine Design 4to, half mor., *12 50 

Reag.an — Locomotives: Simple, Compound, and Electric Small Svo, 3 50 

Rodenhauser and Schoenawa — Electric Furnaces in the Iron and Steel 

Industry (VoM B.\UR.) (In Press.) 

Rosenberg — Electrical Engineering. (Haldanf, Gee — Kinzbrunner.) .Svo, *2 00 
Ry.^n — Design of Electrical Machinery: 

Vol. I. Direct Current Dynamos Svo, *1 50 

Vol. II. Alternating Current Transformers Svo, *1 50 

Vol. III. Alternators, Synchronous Motors, and Rotary Converters. 

Svo, *1 50 
Schapper — Laboratory Guide for Students in Physical Chemistry. . . . 12mo, 1 00 

Tillm.\n — Elementary Lessons in Heat. . . ., Svo, *1 50 

Timbie — Answers to Problems in Elements of Electricity 12mo, Paper, *0 25 

Elements of Electricity Small Svo, *2 00 

Essentials of Electricity 12mo, *1 25 

Tory and Pitcher — Manual 6f Laboratory Physics Small Svo, 2 00 

Ulke — Modern Electrolytic Copper Refining Svo, 3 00 

W.\ters — Commercial Dynamo Design Svo, *2 00 



LAW. 

Brennan — Hand-book of Useful Legal Information for Business Men. 

16mo, mor., *5 00 

Davis — Elements of Law Svo, *2 50 

Treatise on the Military Law of United States^ Svo, ^7 00 

Dudley — Military Law and the Procedure of Courts-martial ... Small Svo, ^2 50 

Manual for Courts Martial 16mo, mor., 1 50 

Wait — Engineering and Architectural Jurisprudence Svo, 6 00 

Sheep, 6 50 

Law of Contracts Svo. 3 00 

Law of Operations Preliminary to Construction in Engineering and 

Architecture ._ Svo, 5 00 

Sheep, 5 50 
11 



MATHEMATICS. 

Baker — Elliptic Functions 8vo, $1 50 

Briggs — Elements of Plane Analytic Geometry. (Bocher.) 12mo, 1 00 

Buchanan — Plane and Spherical Trigonometry 8vo, *1 00 

Byerly — Harmonic Functions 8vo, 1 00 

Chandler — Elements of the Infinitesimal Calculus 12mo, 2 00 

Coffin — Vector Analysis 12mo, *2 50 

CoMPTON— Manual of Logarithmic Computations 12mo, 1 50 

Dickson — College Algebra Small 8vo, *1 50 

Introduction to the Theory of Algebraic Equations Small 8vo, *1 25 

Emch — Introduction to Projective Geometry and its Application 8vo, 2 50 

FiSKE — Functions of a Complex Variable 8vo, 1 00 

Kalsted — Elementary Synthetic Geometry 8vo, 1 50 

Elements of Geometry 8vo, 1 75 

Rational Geometry 12mo, *1 50 

Synthetic Projective Geometry 8vo, 1 00 

Hancock — Lectures on the Theory of Elliptic Functions 8vo, *5 00 

Hyde — Grassmann's Space Analysis 8vo, 1 00 

Johnson (J. B.) Three-place Logarithmic Tables: Vest-pocket size, paper, ♦O 15 

100 copies. *5 00 

Mounted on heavy cardboard, 8 XIO inches, ^O 25 

10 copies, *2 00 
(W. W.) Abridged Editions of Differential and Integral Calculus. 

Small 8vo, 1 vol.. 2 50 

Curve Tracing in Cartesian Co-ordinates 12mo, 1 00 

Differential Equations 8vo, 1 00 

Elementary Treatise on Differential Calculus Small 8vo, 1 50 

Elementary Treatise on the Integial Calculus Small 8vo, 1 50 

Theoretical Mechanics 12mo, *3 00 

Theory of Errors and the Method of Least Squares 12mo, 1 50 

Treatise on Differential Calculus Small 8vo, 3 00 

Treatise on the Integral Calculus Small 8vo, 3 00 

Treatise on Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations. . . .Small 8vo, 3 50 
Karapetoff — Engineering A.pplications of Higher Mathematics: 

Part I. Problems on Machine Design Small 8vo, *0 75 

Koch — Mathematics of Applied Electricity Small 8vo, ^3 00 

Laplace — Philosophical Essay on Probabilities. (Truscott and Emory.) 

12mo, 2 00 
Le Messurier — Key to Professor W. W. Johnson's Differential Equations. 

Small 8vo, *1 75 

Ludlow — Logarithmic and Trigonometric Tables 8vo, *1 00 

and Bass — Elements of Trigonometry and Logarithmic and Other 

Tables 8vo, *3 00 

Trigonometry and Tables published separately Each, *2 00 

Macfarlane — Vector Analysis and Quaternions 8vo, 1 00 

McMahon — Hyperbolic Functions 8vo, 1 00 

Manning — Irrational Numbers and their Representation by Se'quences and 

Series 12mo, 1 25 

Marsh — Industrial Mathematics Small 8vo, *2 00 

Mathematical Monographs. Edited by Mansfield Merriman and 

Robert S. Woodward Octavo, each, 1 00 

No. 1. History of Modern Mathematics, by David Eugene Smith. 

No. 2. Synthetic Projective Geometry, by George Bruce Halsted. 

No. 3. Determinants, by Laenas Gifford Weld. 

No. 4. Hyperbolic Functions, by James McMahon. 

No. 5. Harmonic Functions, by William E. Byerly. 

No. 6. Grassmann's Space Analysis, by Edward W. Hyde. 

No. 7. Probability and Theory of Errors, by Robert S. Woodward. 

No. 8. Vector Analysis and Quaternions, by Alexander Macfarlane. 

No. 9. Differential Equations, by William Woolsey Johnson. 

No. 10. The Solution of Equations, by Mansfield Merriman. 

No. 11. Functions of a Complex Variable, by Thomas S. Fiske. 

Maurer — Technical Mechanics 8vo, 4 00 

Merriman — Method of Least Squares 8vo, 2 00 

Solution of Equations 8vo, 1 00 

Moritz — Elements of Plane Trigonometry 8vo, *2 00 

High School Edition Small 8vo, *1 00 

12 



$1 60 


3 00 


1 00 


*2 00 


*1 00 


*1 50 


1 00 


2 00 


1 00 



Rice and Johnson — Differential and Integral Calculus. 2 Vols, in one. 

Small 8vo, 

Elementary Treatise on the Differential Calculus Small 8vo, 

Smith — History of Modern Mathematics 8vo, 

Veblen and Lennes — Introduction to the Real Infinestimal Analysis of One 

Variable 8v6, 

Waterbury — Vest Pocket Hand-book of Mathematics for Engineers. 

2| Xoi inches, mor., 

Enlarged Edition, Including Tables mor.. 

Weld — Determinants 8vo, 

Wood — Elements of Co-ordinate Geometry 8vo, 

Woodward — Probability and Theory of Errors 8vo, 



MECHANICAL ENGINEERING. 

MATERIALS OF ENGINEERING, STEAM-ENGINES AND BOILERS. 

Bacon — Forge Practice 12mo, 1 50 

Baldwin — Steam Heating for Buildings 12rao, 2 50 

Barr and Wood — Kinematics of Machinery 8vo, 2 50 

Bartlett — Mechanical Drawing. Third Edition 8vo, 3 00 

Abridgment of the Second Edition.. . .8vo, *1 50 

Burr — Ancient and Modem Engineering and the Isthmian Canal 8vo, *3 50 

Carpenter — Heating and Ventilating Buildings 8vo, 4 00 

and DiEDERiCHS — Experimental Engineering 8vo, *6 00 

Clerk — The Gas, Petrol and Oil Engine 8vo, *4 00 

COMPTON — First Lessons in Metal Working 12mo, 1 50 

and De Groodt — Speed Lathe 12mo, 1 50 

Coolidge — Manual of Drawing 8vo, paper, 1 00 

and Freeman — Elements of General Drafting for Mechanical Engi- 
neers ." Oblong 4to, 

Cromwell — Treatise on Belts and Pulleys 12mo, 

Treatise on Toothed Gearing 1 2mo, 

Dingey — Machinery Pattern Making 12mo, 

DuRLEY — Kinematics of Machines 8vo, 

Flanders — Gear-cutting Machinery Small 8vo, 

Flather — Dynamometers and the Measurement of Power 12mo, 

Rope Driving 12mo, 

Fuller and Johnston — Applied Mechanics: 

Vol. I. Theory of Statics and Kinetics (In Press.) 

Vol. II. Strength of Materials {In Preparation.) 

Gill — Gas and Fuel Analysis for Engineers 12mo, 

Goss — Locomotive Sparks 8vo, 

Greene — Elements of Heating and Ventilation .' 8vo, *2 50 

Pumping Machinery 8vo, *4 00 

Hering — Ready Reference Tables (Conversion Factors) 16mo, mor., 2 .50 

Hobart and Ellis — High Speed Dynamo Electric Machinery 8vo, *6 00 

Hutton — Gas Engine 8vo, 5 00 

Jamison — Advanced Mechanical Drawing 8vo, 2 00 

Elements of Mechanical Drawing 8vo, 2 50 

Jones — Gas Engine 8vo, 4 00 

Machine Design: 

Part I. Kinematics of Machinery 8vo, 1 50 

Part II. Form, Strength, and Proportions of Parts 8vo, 3 00 

Kaup — Machine Shop Practice Small Svo, *I 25 

Kent — Mechanical Engineers' Pocket-Book 16mo, mor., *5 00 

Kerr — Power and Power Transmission 8vo, 2 00 

Kimball and Barr — Machine Design 8vo, *3 00 

King — Elements of the Mechanics of Materials and of Power of Trans- 
mission Svo, *2 .50 

Lanza — Dynamics of Machinery 8vo, *2 50 

Leonard — Machine Shop Tools and Methods Svo, 4 00 

Levin — Modern Gas Bngine and the Gas Producer Svo, *4 00 

LoRENZ — Modern Refrigerating Machinery. (Pope, Haven, and Dean.) 

Svo, *4 00 
13 



2 


50 


1 


50 


1 


50 


2 


00 


4 


00 


3 


00 


3 


00 


2 


00 


1 


25 


2 


00 



MacCord — Kinematics; or, Practical Mechanism 8vo, $5 00 

Mechanical Drawing 4to, 4 00 

' Velocity Diagrams 8vo, 1 50 

MacFarland — Standard Reduction Factors for Gases 8vo, l^^SO 

Mahan — Industrial Drawing. (Thompson.) Svo, 3 50 

Mehrtens — Gas Engine Theory and Design Small Svo, 2 50 

Oberg — Handbook of Small Tools Small Svo, 2 50 

Parshall and Hobart — Electric Machine Design. . .Small 4to, half leather, *12 50 
Peele — Compressed Air Plant. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Svo, ^S -50 

Poole — Calorific Power of Fuels Svo, 3 00 

Porter — Engineering Reminiscences, 1855 to 1882 Svo, *3 00 

Reid — Mechanical Drawing. (Elementary and Advanced.) Svo, *2 00 

Text-book of Mechanical Drawing and Elementary Machine Design. Svo, 3 00 

Richards — Compressed Air 12mo, 1 50 

Robinson — Principles of Mechanism Svo, 3 00 

ScHWAMB and Merrill — Elements of Mechanism Svo, \ 3 00 

Smith (O.) — Press- working of Metals Svo, 3 00 

(A. W.) and Marx — Machine Design Svo, 3 00 

Sorel — Carbureting and Combustion in Alcohol Engines. (Woodward and 

Preston.) Small Svo, 3 00 

Stone — Practical Testing of Gas and Gas Meters .' Svo, 3 50 

Thurston — Animal as a Machine and Prime Motor, and the Laws of 

Energetics 12mo, 1 00 

Treatise on Friction and Lost Work in Machinery and Mill Work. .Svo, 3 00 

Tillson — Complete Automobile Instructor 16mo, *1 50 

Titsworth — Elements of Mechanical Drawing ! Oblong Svo, *1 25 

Warren — Elements of Machine Construction and Drawing Svo, 7 50 

Waterbury — Vest Pocket Hand-book of Mathematics for Engineers. 

2| X5i inches, mor., *1 00 

Enlarged Edition, Including Tables mor., ^l 50 

Weisbach — Kinematics and the Power of Transmission. (Herrmann — 

Klein.) Svo, 5 00 

Machinery of Transmission and Governors. (Herrmann — Klein.). Svo, 5 00 
Wood — Turbines Svo, 2 50 

MATERIALS OF ENGIx\EERING. 

Bottler — German and American Varnish Making. (Sabin.) ... Small Svo, *3 50 

Burr — Elasticity and Resistance of the Materials of Engineering Svo, 7 50 

Church — Mechanics of Engineering . .Svo, 6 00 

Mechanics of Solids (Being Parts I, II, III of Mechanics of Engineering). 

Svo, 4 50 
Fuller and Johnston — Applied Mechanics: 

Vol. I. Theory of Statics and Kinetics (In Press.) 

Vol. II. Strength of Materials (In Preparation.) 

Greene — Structural Mechanics .' Svo, *2 50 

Holley — Analysis of Paint and Varnish Products Small Svo, *2 50 

Lead and Zinc Pigments Small Svo, *3 00 

Johnson (C. M.) — Rapid Methods for the Chemical Analysis of Special 

Steels, Steel-making Alloys and Graphite Small Svo, 3 00 

(J, B.) Materials of Construction Svo, 6 00 

Keep — Cast Iron Svo, 2 50 

King — Elements of the Mechanics of Materials and of Power of Trans- 
mission 8vo, *2 50 

Lanza — Applied Mechanics Svo, 7 50 

Lowe — Paints for Steel Structures l2mo, 1 00 

Maire — Modern Pigments and their Vehicles 12mo, 2 00 

Martin — Text-Book of Mechanics: 

Vol. I. Statics 12mo, *1 25 

Vol. II. Kinematics and Kinetics 12mo, *1 50 

Vol. III. Mechanics of Materials 12mo, *1 50 

Vol. IV. Applied Statics 12mo, *1 50 

Maurer — Technical Mechanics Svo, 4 00 

Merriman — Mechanics of Materials Svo, 5 00 

Strength of Materials 12mo, *1 00 

Metcalf — Steel. A Manual for Steel-users 12mo, 2 00 

Murdock — Strength of Materials 12mo, *2 00 

14 



Sarin — Industrial and Artistic Technology of Paint and Varnish 8vo. $3 00 

Smith (A. W.) — Materials of Machines 12mo, 1 00 

(H. E.)— Strength of Material 12mo. *1 25 

Thurston — Materials of Engineering 3 vols., 8vo, 8 00 

Part I. Non-metallic Materials of Engineering 8vo, 2 00 

Part II. Iron and Steel 8vo. 3 50 

Part III. A Treatise on Brasses, Bronzes, and Other Alloys and their 

Constituents 8vo, 2 50 

Waterbury — Laboratory Manual for Testing Materials of Construction. 

12mo, *1 50 

Wood (De V.) — Elements of Analytical Mechanics 8vo, 3 00 

Treatise on the Resistance of Materials and an Appendix on the Preser- 
vation of Timber 8vo, 2 00 

(M.'P.) Rustless Coatings. Corrosion and Electrolysis of Iron and 

Steel 8vo, 4 00 

STEAM-ENGINES AND BOILERS. 

Abraham — Steam Economy in the Sugar Factory. (Bayle.) . . . {In Press.) 
Berry — Temperature-entropy Diagram. Third Edition Revised and En- 
larged : 12mo, 2 50 

Carnot — Reflections on the Motive Power of Heat. (Thurston.).. .12mo, 1 50 

Chase — Art of Pattern Making 12mo, 2 50 

Creighton — Steam-engine and other Heat Motors 8vo, 5 00 

Dawson — " Engineering " and Electric Traction Pocket-book. ..16mo, mor., 5 00 

Gebhardt — Steam Power Plant Engineering 8vo, *6 00 

Goss — Locomotive Performance 8vo, 5 00 

Hemenway — Indicator Practice and Steam-engine Economy 12mo, 2 00 

HiRSHi'ELD and Barnard — Heat Power Engineering 8vo. *5 00 

Hutton — Heat and Heat-engines 8vo, 5 00 

Mechanical Engineering of Power Plants 8vo, 5 00 

Kent — Steam Boiler Economy 8vo, 4 00 

King — Steam Engineering {In Press.) 

Kneass — Practice and Theory of the Injector 8vo, 1 50 

MacCord — Slide-valves 8vo, 2 00 

Meyer — Modern Locomotive Construction 4to, 10 00 

Miller. Berry, and Riley — Problems in Thermodynamics.. . .8vo, paper, 75 

MOYER — Steam Turbines 8vo, 4 00 

Peabody — Manual of the Steam-engine Indicator 12mo, 1 50 

Tables of the Properties of Steam and Other Vapors and Tsmperature- 

Entropy Table 8vo, 1 00 

Thermodynamics of the Steam-engine and Other Heat-engines 8vo, 5 00 

Thermodynamics of the Steam Turbine 8vo, *3 00 

Valve-gears for Steam-engines 8vo, 2 50 

and Miller — Steam-boilers 8vo, 4 00 

Perkins — Introduction to General Thermodynamics . 12mo, *1 50 

PupiN — Thermodynamics of Reversible Cycles in Gases and Saturated 

Vapors. (OsTERBERG.) 12mo, 1 25 

Reagan — Locomotives: Simple, Compound, and Electric. New Edition. 

Small 8vo, 3 50 

Sinclair — Locomotive Engine Running and Management 12mo, 2 00 

Smart — Handbook of Engineering Laboratory Practice 12mo, 2 50 

Snow — Steam-boiler Practice . . ; Svo, 3 00 

Spangler — Notes on Thermodynamics 12mo, 1 00 

Valve-gears Svo, 2 50 

Greene, and Marshall — Elements of Steam-engineering Svo, 3 00 

Thomas — Steam-turbines Svo, 4 00 

Thurston — Manual of Steam-boilers, their Designs, Construction, and 

Operation Svo, 5 00 

Manual of the Steam-engine 2 vols., Svo, 10 00 

Part I. History, Structure, and Theory Svo, 6 00 

Part II. Design, Construction, and Operation Svo, 6 00 

Wehrenfennig — Analysis and Softening of Boiler Feed-water. (Patter- 
son.) Svo, 4 00 

Weisbach — Heat, Steam, and Steam-engines. (Du Bois.) Svo, 5 00 

Whitham — -Steam-engine Design Svo, 5 00 

Wood — Thermodynamics, Heat Motors, and Refrigerating Machines. . .Svo, 4 00 

15 



MECHANICS PURE AND APPLIED. 

Church — Mechanics of Engineering. ... 8vo, $Q 00 

Mechanics of Solids (Being Parts I, li, III of Mechanics of Engineering). 

8vo, 4 50 
Mechanics of Fluids (Being Part IV of Mechanics of Engineering) .8vo, 3 00 

Mechanics of Internal "Work Svo, *1 50 

Notes and Examples in Mechanics Svo, 2 00 

Dana — Text-book of Elementary Mechanics for Colleges and Schools.. 12mo, 1 50 
Du Bois — Elementary Principles of Mechanics: 

Vol. I. Kinematics Svo, 3 .50 

Vol. II. Statics Svo, 4 00 

Mechanics of Engineering. Vol. I Small 4to, 7 50 

Vol. II Small 4to, 10 00 

Fuller and Johnston — Applied Mechanics: 

Vol. I. Theory of Statics and Kinetics {In Press.) 

Vol. II. Strength of Materials {In Preparation.) 

Greene — Structural Mechanics Svo, ^2 50 

Hartmann — Elementary Mechanics for Engineering Students 12mo, *1 25 

James — Kinematics of a Point and the Rational Mechanics of a Particle. 

Small Svo, 2 00 

Johnson (W. W.) Theoretical Mechanics 12mo, *3 00 

King — Elements of the Mechanics of Materials and of Power of Trans- 
mission Svo, *2 50 

KoTTCAMP — Exercises for the Applied Mechanics Laboratory, Loose Leaf 

Laboratory Manual Oblong 4to, paper, *! 00 

Lanza — Applied Mechanics Svo, 7 50 

Martin — Text Book of Mechanics: 

Vol. I. Statics 12mo, *1 25 

Vol, II. Kinematics and Kinetics 12mo, *1 50 

Vol. III. Mechanics of Materials 12mo, *1 50 

Vol. IV. Applied Statics 12mo, *1 50 

Maurer — Technical Mechanics Svo, 4 00 

Merriman — Elements of Mechanics 12mo, *1 00 

Mechanics of Materials Svo, 5 00 

Michie — Elements of Analytical Mechanics Svo, *4 00 

Robinson — Principles of Mechanism Svo, 3 00 

Sanborn — Mechanics Problems Small Svo, *1 50 

ScHWAMB and Merrill — Elements of Mechanism Svo, 3 00 

Wood — Elements of Analytical Mechanics Svo, 3 00 

Principles of Elementary Mechanics 12mo, 1 25 



MEDICAL. 

Abderhalden — Physiological Chemistry in Thirty Lectures. (Hall and 

Defren.) Svo, *5 00 

von Behring — Suppression of Tuberculosis. (Bolduan.) 12mo, 1 00 

BoLDU.AN — Immune Sera 12mo, *1 50 

Bordet — Studies in Immunity. (Gay.) Svo, 6 00 

Chapin — The Sources and Modes of Infection Small Svo, *3 00 

Cohnheim — Enzymes 12mo, * 1 50 

Davenport — Statistical Methods with Special Reference to Biological Varia- 
tions 16mo, mor., 1 50 

Effront — Enzymes and Their Applications. (Prescott.) Svo, 3 00 

Ehrlich — Studies on Immunity. (BOLDUAN.) Svo, G 00 

EuLER — General Chemistry of the Enzymes. (Pope.) Svo, *3 00 

Fischer — Nephritis Small Svo, *2 50 

Oedema Svo, *2 00 

Physiology of Alimentation Small Svo, *2 00 

DE Fursac — Manual of Psychiatry. (Rosanoff and Collins.) . Small Svo, *2 50 

Fuller — Qualitative Analysis of Medicinal Preparations 12mo, *1 50 

Hammarsten — Text-book on Physiological Chemistry. (Mandel.).. . .Svo, *4 00 
Jackson — Directions for Laboratory Work in Physiological Chemistry . Svo, 1 25 

Lassar-Cohn — Praxis of Urinary Analysis. (Lorenz.) 12mo, 1 00 

Lauffer — Electrical Injuries 16mo, ^0 50 

Mandel — Hand-book for the Bio-Chemical Laboratory 12mo, 1 50 

IG 



Martin — Measurement of Induction Shocks 12mo, *1 25 

Nelson — Analysis of Drugs and Medicines 12mo, *3 00 

Pauli — Physical Chemistry in the Service of Medicine. (Fischer.) . . . 12mo, *1 25 

Pozzi-EscoT — Toxins and Venoms and their Antibodies. (Cohn.) . . . 12mo, *1 00 

RosTOSKi — Serum Diagnosis. (Bolduan.) 12mo, 1 00 

RuDDiMAN — Incompatibilities in Prescriptions 8vo, 2 00 

Whys in Pharmacy 12mo, 1 00 

Salkowski — Physiological and Pathological Chemistry. (Orndorff.) . 8vo, 2 50 

Satterlee — Outlines of Human Embryology 12mo, *1 25 

Smith — Lecture Notes on Chemistry for Dental Students 8vo, ^2 50 

Whipple— Typhoid Fever Small Svo, *3 00 

Woodhullt— Military Hygiene for Officers of the Line Small Svo, *1 50 

Personal Hygiene 12mo, *1 00 

Worcester and Atkinson — Small Hospitals Establishment and Mainte- 
nance, and Suggestions for Hospital Architecture, with Plans for a 

Small Hospital 12mo, 1 25 

METALLURGY. 

Betts — Lead Refining by Electrolysis Svo, 4 00 

BoLLAND — Encyclopedia of Founding and Dictionary of Foundry Terms 

used in the Practice of Moulding 12mo, 3 00 

Iron Founder 12mo, 2 50 

Borchers — Metallurgy. (Hall and Hayward.) Svo, *3 00 

Burgess and Le Chatelier — Measurement of High Temperatures. Third 

Edition Svo, *4 00 

Douglas — Untechnical Addresses on Technical Subjects 12mo, 1 00 

Goesel — ^Minerals and^Metals: A Reference Book 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Iles — Lead-smelting 12mo, *2 50 

Johnson — Rapid Methods for the Chemical Analysis of Special Steels, 

Steel-making Alloys and Graphite Large, 12mo, 3 00 

Keep — Cast Iron Svo, 2 50 

Metcalf — Steel. A Manual for Steel-users 12mo, 2 00 

Minet — Production of Aluminum and its Industrial Use. (Waldo.).. 12mo, 2 50 

Palmer — Foundry Practice Small Svo, *2 (X) 

Price and Meade — Technical Analysis of Brass 12mo, *2 00 

Rodenhauser and Schoenawa — Eleqtric Furnaces in the Iron and Steel 

Industry. (VoM Baur.) (In Press) ' ' 

RuER — Elements of Metallography. (Mathewson.) Svo, *3 00 

Smith — Materials of Machines 12mo, 1 00 

Tate and Stone — Foundry Practice 12mo, 2 00 

Thurston — Materials of Engineering. In Three Parts Svo, S 00 

Part I. Non-metallic Materials of Engineering, see Civil Engineering, 

page 9. 

Part II. Iron and Steel Svo, 3 50 

Part III. A Treatise on Brasses, Bronzes, and Other Alloys and Their 

Constituents Svo, 2 50 

Ulke — Modern Electrolytic Copper Refining Svo, 3 00 

West — American Foundry Practice 12mo, 2 50 

Moulders' Text Book 12mo, 2 50 

MILITARY AND MARINE ENGINEERING. 

ARMY AND NAVY. 

Bernadou — Smokeless Powder, Nitro-cellulose, and the Theory of the Cellu- 
lose Molecule 12mo, 2 50 

Chase — Art of Pattern Making 12mo, 2 50 

Screw Propellers and Marine Propulsion Svo, 3 00 

Cloke — Enlisted Specialists' Examiner Svo, *2 00 

Gunner's Examiner Svo, *1 50 

Craig — Azimuth 4to, 3 50 

Crehore and Squier — Polarizing Photo-chronograph Svo, 3 00 

Davis — Elements of Law ". Svo, *2 50 

Treatise on the Military Law of United States Svo, *7 00 

17 



Dudley — Military Law and the Procedure of Courts-martial. . ..Small 8vo, *2 50 

DuRAND — Resistance and Propulsion of Ships 8vo, 5 00 

Dyer — Handbook of Light Artillery 12mo, *3 00 

EissLER — Modern High Explosives 8vo, 4 00 

FiEBEGER — Text-book on Field Fortification Small Svo', *2 00 

Hamilton and Bond — The Gunner's Catechism ISmo, 1 00 

HoFF — Elementary Naval Tactics 8vo, *1 50 

Ingalls — Handbook of Problems in Direct Fire Svo, 4 00 

Interior Ballistics 8vo, *3 00 

Lissak — Ordnance and Gunnery Svo, *& 00 

Ludlow — Logarithmic and Trigonometric Tables Svo, *1 00 

Lyons — Treatise on Electromagnetic Phenomena. Vols. L and II., Svo. each, *6 00 

Mahan — Permanent Fortifications. (Mercur) Svo, half mor., *7 50 

Manual for Courts-martial 16mo, mor., 1 50 

Mercur — Attack of Fortified Places 12mo,|*2 00 

Elements of the Art of War 8vo, '*4 00 

Nixon — Adjutants' Manual 24mo, 1 00 

Peabody — Naval Architecture Svo, 7 50 

Propellers Svo, 1 25 

Phelps — Practical Marine Surveying Svo, *2 50 

Putnam — Nautical Charts Svo, 2 00 

Rust — Ex-meridian Altitude, Azimuth and Star- Finding Tables Svo, 5 00 

Selkirk — Catechism of Manual of Guard Duty 24mo, *0 50 

Sharpe — Art of Subsisting Armies in War ISmo, mor., 1 50 

Taylor — Speed and Power of Ships. 2 vols. Text Svo, plates oblong 4to, *7 50 
TuPES and Poole — Manual of Bayonet Exercise and Musketry Fencing. 

24mo, leather, *0 50 

Weaver — Military Explosives Svo, *^ 00 

WooDHULL — Military Hygiene for Officers of the Line Small Svo, *1 50 



MINERALOGY. 

Browning — Introduction to Rarer Elements Svo, ^l 50 

Brush — Manual of Determinative Mineralogy. (Penfield.) Svo, 4 00 

Butler — Pocket Hand-book of Blowpipe Analysis 16mo, ♦O 75 

Pocket Hand-book of Minerals 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Chester — Catalogue of Minerals Svo, paper, 1 00 

Cloth, 1 25 

Crane — Gold and Silver Svo, *5 00 

Dana — First Appendix to Dana's New " System of Mineralogy.". Large Svo, 1 00 
Second Appendix to Dana's New " System of Mineralogy." Large Svo, 1 50 

Manual of Mineralogy. (Ford.) 12mo, *2 00 

Minerals, and How to Study Them 12mo, 1 50 

System of Mineralogy Large Svo, half leather, 12 50 

Text-book of Mineralogy ' Svo, 4 GO 

Douglas — Untechnical Addresses on Technical Subjects 12mo, 1 00 

Eakle — Mineral Tables Svo, 1 25 

Eckel — Building Stones and Clays Svo, *3 00 

Goesel — Minerals and Metals: A Reference Book 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Groth — The Optical Properties of Crystals. (Jackson.) Svo, *3 50 

Introduction to Chemical Crystallography. (Marshall.) 12mo, 1 25 

Hayes — Handbook for Field Geologists lOmo, mor., ^l 50 

Iddings — Igneous Rocks Svo, 5 00 

Rock Minerals Svo, 5 00 

Johannsen — Determination of Rock-forming Minerals in Thin Sections, Svo, 

With Thumb Index, 5 00 

Lewis — Determinative Mineralogy Small Svo, *1 50 

Martin — Laboratory Guide to Qualitative Analysis with the Blowpipe. 12mo, *0 60 

Merrill — Non-metallic Minerals: Their Occurrence and Uses Svo, 4 00 

Stones for Building and Decoration Svo, 5 00 

Penfield — Notes on Determinative Mineralogy and Record of Mineral 

Tests Svo, paper, *0 50 

Tabler, of Minerals, Including the Use of Minerals and Statistics of 

Domestic Production Svo, 1 00 

PiRSSON — Rocks and Rock Minerals 12mo, *2 50 

Richards — Synopsis of Mineral Characterr, r2mo, mor., *1 25 

IS 



RiES— Building Stones and Clay Products 8vo.*$3 00 

Clays: Their Occurrence, Properties and Uses 8vo, *5 00 

and Leighton — History of the Clay-working Industry of the United 

States 8vo. *2 50 

RowE — Practical Mineralogy Simplified 12mo, *1 25 

Tillman — Text-book of Important Minerals and Rocks 8vo, *2 00 

Washington — Manual of the Chemical Analysis of Rocks Svo, 2 00 



MINING. 

Beard — Mine Gases and Explosions Small Svo, *3 00 

Brunswig — Explosives. (Munroe and Kibler.) Ready Fall, 1912 

Crane— Gold and Silver 8vo, *5 00 

Index of Mining Engineering Literature, Vol. I Svo, *4 00 

Svo, mor., *5 00 

Vol. II Svo, *3 00 

Svo, mor., *4 00 

Ore Mining Methods 8vo. *3 00 

Dana and Saunders— Rock Drilling Svo, *4 00 

Douglas — Untechnical Addresses on Technical Subjects 12mo, 1 00 

EissLER — Modern High Explosives Svo, 4 00 

Gilbert, Wightman and Saunders — Subways and Tunnels of New York. 

Svo, *4 00 

GoESEL — Minerals and Metals: A Reference Book 16mo, mor., 3 00 

Ihlseng — Manual of Mining Svo, 5 00 

ILES — Lead Smelting l2mo, *2 50 

Peele — Compressed Air Plant Svo, *3 50 

RiEMER — Shaft Sinking under Difficult Conditions. (Corning and Peele.) 

Svo, 3 00 

Weaver — Military Explosives Svo, *3 00 

Wilson — Hydraulic and Placer Mining 12mo, 2 50 

Treatise on Practical and Theoretical Mine Ventilation 12mo, 1 25 



SANITARY SCIENCE. 

Association of State and National Food and Dairy Departments, 

Hartford Meeting. 1906 Svo, 3 00 

Jamestown Meenng, 1907 Svo, 3 00 

Bashore — Outlines of Practical Sanitation 12mo, *1 25 

Sanitation of a Country House 12mo, 1 00 

Sanitation of Recreation Camps and Parks ... 12mo, 1 00 

Folwell — Sewerage. (Designing, Construction, and Maintenance.).. .Svo, 3 00 

Water-supply Engineering Svo, 4 00 

Fowler — Sewage Works Analyses 12mo, 2 00 

Fuertes — Water-filtration Works 12mo, 2 50 

Gerhard — Guide to Sanitary Inspections 12mo, 1 50 

Modern Baths and Bath Houses Svo, *3 00 

Sanitation of Public Buildings 12mo, 1 50 

The Water Supply, Sewerage, and Plumbing of Modern City Buildings. 

Svo, *4 00 
Hazen— Clean Water and How to Get It Small Svo, 1 50 

Filtration of Public Water-supplies-. Svo, 3 00 

KiNNicuTT, WiNSLOW and Pratt — Sewage Disposal Svo, *3 00 

Leach — Inspection and Analysis of Food with Special Reference to State 

Control Svo, 7 50 

Mason — Examination of Water. (Chemical and Bacteriological.).. .. 12mo, 1 25 

Water-supply. (Considered principally from a Sanitary Standpoint.) 

Svo, 4 00 

Merriman — Elements of Sanitary Engineering Svo, *2 00 

Ogden — Sewer Construction Svo, 3 00 

Sewer Design 12mo. 2 00 

Ogden and Cleveland — Practical Methods of Sewage Disposal for Res- 
idences, Hotels and Institutions Svo, *1 50 

Parsons — Disposal of Municipal Refuse Svo, 2 00 

19 



Prescott and Winslow — Elements of Water Bacteriology, with Special 

Reference to Sanitary Water Analysis 12mo, fl 50 

Price — Handbook on Sanitation 12mo, *1 50 

Richards — Conservation by Sanitation 8vo,' 2 50 

Cost of Cleanness 12mo, 1 00 

Cost of Food. A Study in Dietaries 12mo, 1 00 

Cost of Living as Modified by Sanitary Science. . .' 12mo, 1 00 

Cost of Shelter 12nio, 1 00 

Laboratory Notes on Industrial Water Analysis 8vo, '^O 50 

Richards and Woodman — Air, Water, and Food from a Sanitary Stand- 
point 8vo, 2 00 

RiCHEY — Plumbers', Steam-fitters', and Tinners' Edition (Building Mechan- 
ics' Ready Reference Series) 16mo, mor,, *1 50 

RiDEAL — Disinfection and the Preservation of Food Svo, 4 00 

SoPER — Air and Ventilation of Subways 12mo, 2 50 

Turneaure and Russell — Public Water-supplies Svo, 5 00 

Venable — Garbage Crematories in America Svo, 2 00 

Method and Devices for Bacterial Treatment of Sewage Svo, 3 00 

Ward and Whipple — Freshwater Biology {In Press.) 

Whipple — Microscopy of Drinking-water Svo, 3 50 

Typhoid Fever Small Svo, *3 00 

Value of Pure Water Small Svo, 1 00 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Burt — Railway Station Service 12mo, *2 00 

Chapin — How to Enamel 12mo, *1 00 

Emmons — Geological Guide-book of the Rocky Mountain Excursion of the 

International Congress of Geologists Large Svo, 1 50 

Ferrel — Popular Treatise on the Winds Svo, 4 00 

Fitzgerald — Boston Machinist ISmo, 1 00 

Fritz — Autobiography of John Svo, *2 00 

Gannett — Statistical Abstract of the World 24mo, 75 

Green — Elementary Hebrew Grammar 12mo, 1 25 

Haines — American Railway Management 12mo, 2 50 

Hanausek — The Microscopy of Technical Products. (Winton.) Svo, 5 00 

Jacobs — Betterment Briefs. A Collection of Published Papers on Organ- 
ized Industrial Efficiency Svo, 3 50 

Metcalfe — Cost of Manufactures, and the Administration of Workshops. 

Svo, 5 00 

Parkhurst — Applied Methods of Scientific Management Svo, *2 00 

Putnam — Nautical Charts Svo, 2 00 

Ricketts — History of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1824-1S94. 

. Small Svo, 3 OC 
Rotch and Palmer — Charts of the Atmosphere for Aeronauts and Aviators. 

Oblong 4to, *2 00 

RotHERHAM — Emphasised New Testament Large Svo, 2 00 

Rust — Ex-Meridian Altitude, Azimuth and Star-finding Tables Svo, 5 00 

Standage — Decoration of Wood, Glass, Metal, etc 12mo, 2 00 

Westermaier — Compendium of General Botany. (Schneider.) Svo, 2 00 

Winslow — Elements of Applied Microscopy 12mo, 1 50 



20 







cr» 

02 





-f--. 




.1 


• 




^ 


i^^ 


Q) 





rH 


V- 






(U 


-f 


'^d 


c;: 


$^ 


O; 


«J 


c 


^ 







<!) 


•r-* 


i ^ 


C^ 


: h : 


u 






> 




; 'J 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 



< H 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref . Index File." 
Made by LIBRAEY BUREAU 






