
• LINDA HULL LARNED • 



ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 



s 




w 


4 


n 


C 


^^^ 



From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 



lITY LIBRARY 




3 1924 087 319 673 




The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924087319673 



THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



Copyright, 1913, by 
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 



Printed in the United States of America 



AB rights reserved. No part of this hook 
may be reproduced in any form without 
the permission of Charles Scribner's Sons 





m 
M 

m 

4 




It is, my endeavor in this book to assist 
the housekeeper and hostess in selecting 
and serving a menu suitable for an elabo- 
rate repast or a simple meal; to show 
her how to prepare and serve each course 
and to provide a quantity sufficient for 
six persons. The instructions given are 
the result of many years of practical ex- 
perience and interested observations and 
they are offered for the benefit of young 
housekeepers, or for those who have not 
had the time or inclination to formulate 
their own rules. Furthermore, it is be- 
lieved that the successful hostess and 
housekeeper is the one who is always 
ready to receive and apply all new sug- 
gestions which will improve her old 
methods. 

It is not my design to instruct begin- 
ners in the minute details pertaining to 




vi PREFACE 

the preparation of all the ordinary dishes in daily use, or to 
cover the entire duties of a butler or waitress. These de- 
partments have already been ably treated by other writers. 
Neither do I attempt to give any of the science which 
underlies the nutritive value and the preservation and prep- 
aration of all foods. In this enlightened day, women who 
enter the field of home-making and housekeeping without, at 
least, a rudimentary knowledge of this science will be hope- 
less failures. To such this book will not appeal. But with 
the many schools of domestic science now open to women 
and girls and with the numerous and excellent books now 
obtainable such a calamity as failure is easily avoided. 

Furthermore, the so-called "fancy cookery" is rarely at- 
tempted in these pages — the cookery that requires hours of 
time and the skill of a chef is not often successful in the home 
kitchen. The very few recipes that seem elaborate are for 
those of experience and with time to enjoy the work. Al- 
though many of the recipes are composed of expensive ma- 
terials, the majority contain simple, inexpensive ingredients 
which are quite as acceptable if carefully prepared, well 
seasoned, and daintily served. Foods of the same kind which 
are cooked in a similar manner are classified under one head- 
ing. If the reader will read these "Methods" she will find 
no difficulty in following the suggestions for the different 
seasonings and garnishings. 

General directions are given for serving dinners, luncheons, 
breakfasts, and suppers in the first part of the book, while 
detailed suggestions will be found at the head of each sec- 
tion. 

It is hoped that the perusal of the "Methods" and general 
instructions in the following pages will aid the reader to 
revive the often vague impressions she has gathered through 



PREFACE vli 

observation and experience, and to put them into the prac- 
tical use which conforms with the manners and methods of 
the best society of the present day. 

Finally, I proffer this book to those who accepted the 
■^Hostess of To-Day" as a helpful household adjunct with 
the hope that a new audience will also grant the "New 
Hostess" as gracious a reception. 




The following suggestions are for the beginner, the novice 
in household matters, and whether her household be a mod- 
est little apartment, with one maid of all work, or a large 
establishment, it is hoped that she will at least read these 
hints, and possibly profit by them. 

On Serving. — ^Table setting and serving is almost an art 
and can never be learned by those who do not possess a cor- 
rect eye for neatness and regularity. The care of the table 
is all-important. Now that it is the fashion to serve break- 
fasts and luncheons, and often suppers and afternoon teas, 
with nothing but lace or linen between the dishes and the 
beautiful dull finished wood of the table, unremitting care 
is required to keep that table without blemish. Napkins 
should be large for dinner, and always without fringe, folded 
four times in ironing, then once with the hand to hold the 
roll or slice of bread and placed at the left of the forks at the 

cover. 

is 



X HINTS TO THE NOVICE 

This "cover" is the place at taDfe for each guest and should 
consist of plate, napkin, knives, forks, spoons, and glasses 
necessary for the meal. The "service" plate is a large 
handsome plate placed on the table before guests are seated, 
upon which is placed the soup or first course and not to be 




THE COVER 



removed until it be necessary to serve a hot plate. Butter 
is never served at the formal dinner or luncheon. When 
bread-and-butter plates are used they are placed with the 
spreader upon them, at the left, at the end of the forks. 
Knives are placed at the right, with sharp edge toward plate, 
and forks at the left with tines turned up. Spoons are 
placed at the right and glasses at end of knives. When 
bread-and-butter plates are used they should remain imtil 
after the salad course. Everything belonging to one course 
should be removed before the next course is served. Nuts 
and bonbons, glasses for wine and water, remain upon the 
table from the beginning to the end. In removing a course 
take the large dishes or platters first, then the plates and 



HINTS TO THE NOVICE xi 

silver from each "cover." The carving knife and fork 
should be placed side by side upon the platter. 

Every dish from which guests are to help themselves 
should be offered at the left of the guest with handle of serv- 
ing spoon or fork on side toward the guest and so low that 
guests may transfer the food to their plates without reach- 
ing. Plates containing individual portions should be placed 
from the right, with the right hand, after removing the pre- 
ceding course from the left with the left hand. This makes 
one trip from the pantry for each plate. Plates and dishes 
should be carried on a folded napkin in the left hand when 
not using tray. When there is but one to serve and many to 
be served, the finished course may be removed two at a 
time, always from the right, transferring the first plate to 
the left hand and taking the second plate in the right hand. 
The succeeding course may be placed in the same manner, 
thus making one trip to the pantry for each two guests. 
This is not the elegant way of serving, but is often necessary. 
The tray is used for passing and for serving and removing 
small things, or courses when there is no preceding course 
to be removed. 

All dinners are composed of soup, meat, vegetables, salads 
and sweets or desserts, and fruits. Salad is frequently 
served with chicken or game and is also often served as a 
last course with cheese and wafers, and the only sweets — 
being bon-bons which are served with the fruit — if the latter 
be served — after finger bowls are placed. 

Luncheons consist of soups in cups; meat, fish or poultry 
entries or game, salads and cheese; and a dessert or fruit. 
All other courses may be added at discretion. Even at a 
formal luncheon the soup may be left out of the menu if 
some one of the "beginnings" be served. 



xii HINTS TO THE NOVICE 

Bread, butter if served, rolls, and water should never be 
asked for. A careful waitress or well-trained butler will see 
that these are well supplied. Where a butler or dining- 
room maid is kept the salads and all things that do not re- 
quire the cook's attention are prepared by them in the but- 
ler's pantry. 

In selecting the menu for any meal the novice should 
remember that there should not be repetition of food or 
flavor, that no two courses should be cooked in the same 
manner, and that the sauces should be distinctly different 
in color, taste, and flavor. 

The novice is urged to read the following cookery sugges- 
tions that she may better understand how to use the recipes 
in the book to the best advantage and thus save time and 
trouble. 

COOKERY SUGGESTIONS 

To Saute. — Cook quickly, in a small amount of butter, 
fat, or oil until the food is brown, in a shallow pan called a 
saute pan. 

To Fry in Frying-pan. — Partly immerse the food in hot 
fat in an iron spider and fry until brown. 

To Pan-Broil.^-Cook the food quickly in a very hot 
saute pan or spider, in a very little butter or meat suet, 
until one side is seared and brown; turn and cook on the 
other side; then reduce heat and cook until done, turning 
often. 

To Fry in Deep Fat. — Plunge the food, in a wire basket, 
into a deep kettle holding sufficient hot fat to completely 
cover, and cook it until brown. Articles should not touch 



HINTS TO THE NOVICE xiii 

each other in the basket and the fat should be of moderate 
heat for uncooked articles and very hot for cooked food. 
But few articles should be cooked at a time. 

To Crumb and Fry. — Dip food in crumbs lightly, then in 
sHghtly beaten egg mixed with very little water — 1 tbsp. 
water to 1 egg — and completely cover with crumbs and plunge 
into deep, hot fat and cook until brown. Uncooked food 
should be dusted with flour seasoned with salt and pepper, 
then rolled in the egg and covered with crumbs. All food 
should be very cold before frying. Test fat with a piece of 
bread; it should be hot enough to brown in 1 minute for un- 
cooked foods and in 40 seconds for cooked mixtures. 

To Lard Meat or Poultry. — Cut fat salt pork in J-inch 
strips 3 or 4 inches long and with a larding needle draw 
it through the meat an inch apart. 

To Marinate. — Cover article with French dressing un- 
less a special marinade is mentioned in recipe, in which it is 
to be left for an hour or more. 

Poeling. — ^This is cooking meats and poultry on a layer of 
vegetables and seasonings called "mirepoix." The mirepoix 
is tiu"ned into a casserole, baking-pan, paper bag, or fireless- 
cooker kettle, the meat or poultry placed upon it and spread 
with butter, and if cooked in the oven it is basted frequently 
until tender. If cooked in paper bag or the fireless, it, of 
course, requires no basting. One or more tbsps. of stock, 
Madeira, or sherry wine may be poured into the spider after 
the mirepoix is cooked and then poured over the meat. 

Mirepoix. — Carrots, onions, celery, and a little salt pork 
diced, a Httle thyme or savory herbs, and a bit of bay leaf. 




PLEASE READ CAREFULLY BEFORE USING 
THIS BOOK. 



The amount given in each recipe, with the few exceptions 
which are mentioned, is sufficient for six persons. 

All measurements are level, one cupful is one-half pint and 
one tablespoonful is three standard teaspoonfuls. Wherever 
possible, recipes are represented by measurements, cupfuls 
and spoonfuls rather than pounds and ounces. 

Abbreviations are used to shorten recipes and thus make 
room for valuable material. For the same reason numerals 
are used to designate the amounts. 
The abbreviations are: 

cup for cupful or tbsp. for tablespoonful. 

1^ pint. teasp. for teaspoonful. 

pt. for pint. qt. for quart, 

doz. for dozen. lb. for pound. 

Attention is called to the "Methods" which are given in 
detail for cooking such foods as may be changed in flavor and 



XV 



xvi EXPLANATION OF METHOD 

garnishing; and to save needless repetition these are fol- 
lowed by the suggestions for such changes. The reader is 
requested to read all methods carefully before attempting 
to cook by the suggestions which follow. 

References to other recipes in the book are represented by 
capital letters, and usually the number, and will be found in 
the index. 




PAOB 

Hints to the Novice ix 

Explanation op Method xv 

DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS: 

The Formal Dinner 1 

The Informal Dinner 6 

The Informal Dinner with bttt 

One Both to Cook and Serve 8 

The Formal Luncheon .... 8 

The Informal Luncheon ... 10 

BREAKFASTS: 

Formal and Informal Break- 
fasts 11 

The Wedding Breakfast ... 13 

The Early Breakfast .... 14 

EVENING COLLATIONS: 

Little Suppers 15 

The Sunday-Night Supper . . 16 

The Wedding Supper or Mid- 
night Collation 16 

xvii 



ri'< 



xviil CONTENTS 

FAoa 
FIVE O'CLOCK FUNCTIONS: 

The Cup op Tea 18 

The Card Pabty 19 

The Large Reception 20 

CHAFING-DISH CREATIONS 22 

SOME BEGINNINGS: 

Canapes 25 

Oysters and Clams 29 

Cocktails (Edible) 29 

Bonnes Bouchbs 30 

Small Hors d'(Euvres 31 

Fruits 33 

SOUPS: 

Stocks 37 

Clear Soups 38 

Bouillons 38 

Consommes 39 

Consommes with Dieperent Seasonings and Garnish- 

INGS 40 

Cream Soups 43 

Purees . . . , 47 

Bisques 50 

Chowders 51 

Unclassified Soups 52 

Cold Soups 53 

Gabnishings for Soups 54 

FISH AND FISH ENTREES: 

Fish Cooked Whole 57 

Fish Entrees op Uncooked Fish 62 

Fish Entries op Cooked Fish gg 



CONTENTS xix 

PAOB 

Smoked Fish oe Fish in Oil . 68 

Cold Fish EntriSe 69 

Shell-Fish , 70 

ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY: 

Light ENTR:fiES 81 

Meats 81 

Poultry 89 

Substantial Entries 97 

Meat Entries 97 

Poultry Entries 107 

Cold Meat and Poultry Entries 114 

flECE DE RESISTANCE 121 

Meat Removes 123 

Poultry Removes 129 

Stuffings for Poultry and Meats 137 

VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 139 

Macaroni, Spaghetti, Noodles, and Nuts 167 

SAUCES FOR FISH, MEATS, AND VEGETABLES: 

Savory Sauces foe Fish, Meats, and Vegetables . . . 171 

Cold Sauces 180 

Fruit Fritters and Relishes 182 

Fritters 182 

Relishes 183 

Accessories and Garnishings foe Meats, Poultey, and 

Vegetables 185 

GAME : 

Featheeed Game 190 

Ground Game 194 

Cold Game Dishes 196 



XX CONTENTS 

PAoa 
SALADS: 

Salad Dressings 199 

Salads or Meats or Vegetables 202 

Fruit Salads 215 

Salad Accessories 21S 

Vinegars op Different Flavors 219 

EGGS AND CHEESE: 

Eggs 221 

Omelettes 226 

Cheese 228 

DESSERTS: 

Cold Desserts 233 

Cake Puddings .... 233 

Creams 236 

Custards, Baked and Boiled 241 

Farinaceous Puddings 244 

Fruit and Nut Desserts 245 

Jellies 249 

Jelly Creams . 252 

Jellt Sponges 252 

Hot Desserts 253 

Baked Puddings 253 

Farinaceous Puddings 257 

Fried Puddings (All Fried in Deep Fat) .... 258 

Fruits Cooked 259 

Omelettes French and Omelettes Souffl^ . . . 259 

Short Cakes 260 

Souffles (Bake in Slow Oven) 260 

Steamed Puddings 263 



CONTENTS xxi 



PAGD 



Pastry 266 

Pies 269 

Tartlets 273 

PUDDING SAUCES: 

Cold Sauces 275 

Hot Sauces 277 

FROZEN CREAMS, ICES, AND FRAPPES : 

Creams Stirred while Freezing 281 

Biscuits 288 

BoMBES 289 

Coupes 290 

Mousses (Frozen without Stirring) 291 

Muscovites (Frozen without Stirring) 293 

Parfaits (Frozen without Stirring) 294 

Puddings Glac^ (Frozen without Stirring) . . . 297 

SouPFuSs Glacis (Frozen without Stirring) . . . 298 

Ices 300 

Sherbets 300 

Frapp£s 302 

Sauces for Ice-Cream and Ices 303 

Cold Sauces 303 

Hot Sauces 304 

Accessories to Desserts and Ice-Creams 304 

CAKES: 

Methods of Making Cakes 307 

Layer Cakes 308 

Some Especial Layer Cakes 309 

Cakes in Loaves 311 

Fruit Cakes 313 

Molasses Cakes and Gingerbreads 315 



xxu CONTENTS 

PAOB 

Nut Cakes 315 

Plain Cakes 316 

Pound Cakes 316 

Sponge Cakes 317 

Small Cakes, Cookies, and Fancy Cakes .... 318 

Fancies for Afternoon Tea 323 

Petits Fours and Frosted Cakes 325 

Puff-Paste Dainties for Afternoon Tea .... 329 

Wafers .329 

Cake Fillings and Feostings 331 

Fillings 331 

Frostings 335 

Boiled Frostings 335 

Uncooked Frostings 337 

SOME ACCESSORIES 340 

HOT BEVERAGES AND COLD DRINKS: 

Hot Beverages 343 

Cold Drinks 345 

Cocktails 350 

Cordials 351 

BREADS, ROLLS, BISCUITS: 

Raised with Yeast 353 

Biscuits, Raised 355 

Coffee Cakes, Buns, and Sweet Breads .... 356 

Muffins, Raised 359 

Rolls, Raised 3g0 

Quick-Raising Biscuits, Breads, Muffins, Etc 361 

Biscuits 35I 

Quick Breads 352 

Gems, Popovers, and Puffs 353 



CONTENTS xac 

PAOB 

GsiDDLB Cakes and Scones 364 

Scones 366 

Muffins 367 

Wafers and Crisps 368 

Waffles 369 

PRESERVES AND PICKLES 370 

SANDWICHES : 

Fob Evert Occasion 377 

Savort Sandwiches . ■. . 378 

A Few Sandwich Fillings that Men Like .... 383 

Sweet Sandwiches 383 

CHAFING-DISH COOKERY: 

How TO Use the Chafing-Dish 385 

Savory Dishes 385 

Sweet Dishbs 398 

INDEX 401 



! 


Si 


MS, -"•"jUf^ptK Bl 


^^^^R 


IlTBh 



THE FORMAL DINNER 

A dinner of twelve or more covers, to which formal invi- 
tations have been sent, should consist of from six to nine 
courses, rather less if it is to be followed by any especial 
form of entertainment, as bridge or a dance, etc. 



The Table. — ^The table should be covered with a "silence" 
cloth, upon which should be spread, without crease, the best 
damask one can afford. A lace or embroidered cloth may 
be used if preferred, and, if either of lace or damask, it 
should hang over a quarter of a yard on every side. 

Allow at least 24 inches of table space for each guest. 
At each cover place the best 10-inch plate you have. This 
is the service plate to be left on until the first hot plate is 
required. Any course served in small plates or ramekin 
dishes is placed on the service plate. The service plate is 
removed only to make place for the succeeding course, if it 
be the main course, or a large hot plate with a portion upon 
it. Place all plates an inch from edge of table and at right 
as many knives as will be required in the order in which 

1 



2 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

they will be required, beginning at the extreme end. "We 
eat in," as some one has aptly expressed it. Place soup 
spoon and small spoon or fork to be used for "beginnings" 
at the extreme right. At the left place as many forks as 
will be needed, but if more than three or four are required 
place them just before the course for which they are to 
be used is served. The spoon or fork for dessert may be 
placed at top of plate, or placed whien serving that course. 
At the upper right hand of plate place the glass for water 
and those for champagne or wine in the order in which they 
are to be used, toward the points of the knives. As the serv- 
ing of wine is now reduced to but one or two kinds, or three 
at most, this will not take much room. In fact, it is now 
entirely a question of taste whether champagne, wines, 
liquors, cordials, or cocktails be served at all, as many 
of the best entertainments are given without them. Each 
hostess must decide this matter herself with the assurance 
that either is equally good form. Many men prefer whis- 
key and soda to wine, so if this highball is to be served, 
the glass, which is a tall, rather large tumbler, should be 
placed next to the water glass. Napkins should be large 
and of fine quality and embroidered with the initials or 
monogram of the hostess. They are placed at left of forks 
and are folded to hold the roll or piece of bread. Place 
cards are laid upon the napkin or against the goblet if they 
be those that stand. A small bunch of flowers or a single 
flower may be placed at each lady's cover and a boutonniere 
for the men, if desired. Menu cards are seldom used at 
home dinners. They are used at large dinners or banquets, 
to allow guests the privilege of saving capacity for especially 
delectable courses, or as a souvenir for some unusual celebra- 
tion. They are, however, used at the home table and even 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 3 

at luncheon in the large establishments of European coun- 
tries. 

In decorating the table, appearance of millinery must be 
avoided; consequently, lace and ribbon furbelows are rarely 
used. A centre piece of embroidery, or heavy lace and em- 
broidery, serves as a background for a dainty arrangement 
of a few choice flowers and vines in low vases, bowls, or bas- 
kets. Small dishes containing relishes, bonbons, and salted 
nuts are placed on the table. Chinese or Japanese bronze 
or pottery are quite the vogue for the few choice flowers 
and accessories. Very beautiful and artistic receptacles 
for salt and pepper may be placed on the table, but unless 
they are unique it is better to have them on the side table. 
It is presumed that each course is sufficiently seasoned and 
a well-bred guest will refrain from asking for them. Coast- 
ers holding decanters of wine may be placed on the table if 
they are handsome and wine be served, also handsome can- 
dlesticks with candles to be lighted, or electric lamps. It 
is a matter of taste whether candles be shaded. Unless 
carefully protected from danger of igniting, it is better to use 
them without the shades. Of course, electric lights are 
always shaded. Further illumination may come from a low 
centre light over centre of table, if necessary. Avoid the 
light from the ceiling, which is always cold and unbecoming. 

The Placing of the Party.— The selection and placing 
of guests is important if one desires a successful and har- 
monious entertainment. Husbands and wives, and even 
engaged couples, are never placed side by side. The hostess 
either tells each man as he is received the name of the par- 
ticular lady he is to take out to dinner, or he finds this infor- 
mation on a card in an envelope addressed to him in the 



4 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

dressing-room. R. or L. designates the side of table on 
entering room. When dinner is announced the host offers 
his arm to the lady for whom the dinner is given, or the one 
chosen to be seated at his right, and leads the way to the 
dining-room as soon as the maid or butler announces dinner. 
If hors d'oeuvres and cocktails are served in the drawing- 
room, this is the announcement also that dinner is served. 

The Serving of the Dinner.— The best and simplest 
way of serving is to have any one of the "beginnings" — ^those 
that are not served in the drawing-room — ^placed upon the 
service plate before guests are summoned. The soup is 
served from the butler's pantry, very hot, in soup plates, 
and each successive course is artistically arranged and cut 
in individual portions in the butler's pantry and placed on 
a large dish or platter, accompanied by the necessary serv- 
ing spoon or fork. These are held in the hands, on a nap- 
kin, if too large for the tray, and are offered at the left of 
each guest in rotation, beginning with the hostess and going 
in opposite directions for each successive course. If thought 
best to serve a course already placed on the plates, then the 
preceding course is removed and successive one placed at 
the same time. Plates are removed from the left and placed 
from the right. This continues throughout the dinner until 
the last course before dessert, then everything from each 
cover is removed except the glasses, the table is crumbed 
with a napkin, and then plates for dessert or finger bowls for 
bonbons and fruit are placed in front of each guest. Dishes 
containing jellies or relishes are removed before the dessert. 

Black coffee in small cups, the demi-tasse, followed by 
cordials in thimble-sized glasses, is served to the ladies soon 
after they reach the drawing-room and is at the same time 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 5 

served to the gentlemen who linger over the cigars in the 
dining-room. In these days of "auction" dinners men do 
not linger long over the cigars and liqueurs, and many host- 
esses prefer to delay the serving of coffee either until 
they are all together at the bridge tables or in the drawing- 
room. 

The Menu. — ^The writer does not presume to give a series 
of menus, as she believes every hostess is able to carry out 
her own ideas in accordance with the supplies of local mar- 
kets, the season, and the resources and capability of her 
cook. Suggestions for serving each different course are given 
at the heading of each section, and but a few hints are here 
offered in the selection of courses. Of course, our hostess 
will avoid similarity in the courses and will serve a clear soup 
with a heavy dinner, and will begin a very light dinner with 
a semi-thick one, and she will rarely serve a heavy salad 
with any dinner unless there be some special reason for so 
doing. Salads with French dressing are suitable for din- 
ners, while mayonnaise, if it appears at all, will masquerade 
in a "beginning." For the dinner of many courses there 
should be a "beginning," a soup, a fish course, which if it 
be of whole or large pieces of fish is called a "relev6," or this 
course may be a fish entree, and with either serve cucum- 
bers or cabbage with salad dressing, and usually potatoes. 
The next course should be a meat or poultry entr6e, followed 
by the roast or "piece de r&istance" with one or two vege- 
tables and a sweet rehsh, sweet pickles, or jellies. A vegetable 
entree comes next, then the game, followed by the salad and 
cheese course, or the game and salad, without the cheese, may 
be served together. Now the table is cleared, and the sweet 
course, which may be a warm pudding or tart, or any of the 



6 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

hot desserts, or any dainty cold sweet or ice-cream, then the 
finger bowls and fruit and bonbons. Fruit may be omitted, 
but never the bonbons and salted nuts. These are as much 
in evidence as bread upon our tables of entertainment. 
There shoidd, of course, always be bread in the shape of a 
dinner roll or longstick or a square piece of plain bread with- 
out crust, and with the different courses other breads or 
wafers may be introduced. In order to shorten this menu, 
the fish course or the entree may be omitted, also the veg- 
etable entree as a course, and it is perfectly good form to 
omit the sweet course and even the "beginning." Often 
a hearty meat entree takes the place of the roast, or a grill 
or something "en casserole" may be the "pi^ce de resis- 
tance." The greatest latitude is given in shortening and 
lightening one's dinners and luncheons in these days of ab- 
stemious eating and drinking, on account of that most de- 
sirable of all things, good health. 

THE INFORMAL DINNER 

The informal dinner should be easy of accomplishment 
by the average hostess. In fact, if she is a careful house- 
keeper and appreciates the delights of hospitality, her every- 
day dinner will need but little embelhshment for those who 
are invited informally. A few well-chosen courses, simply 
garnished but well served, make any home dinner a success. 
It is quite like the formal dinner, however, with a few ex- 
ceptions. If one so desires, the bread-and-butter plates and 
pepper and salt may be on the table. Soup is always served 
from the side as the soup tureen is rarely used. Fish may 
be served by the host and the roast or "piSce de resistance," 
which is often not a roast but may be a grill or a casserole, 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 7 

or even a dish of boiled or broiled meat, is placed on the 
table in a large platter to be carved by the host with old- 
time hospitahty. All vegetables and sauces are placed on 
the side table and are passed as required. The host or 
hostess serves the salad and often makes it, or it may be 
made in the pantry and passed, and the hostess serves the 
dessert. When host or hostess serves a course, have one 
more plate than the number of guests, so that there may be 
a plate in front of the server while those that are filled are 
being placed. Coffee may be served on the table, if pre- 
ferred, after finger bowls are placed, and the hostess may 
pour it or it may come from the pantry, hot, in the usual 
demi-tasse. It is not at all formal, however, to take coffee 
in the drawing-room. Sugar is passed with coffee but not 
cream. Bonbons, nuts, and reUshes are on the table, to 
which every one may help himself. The service of plac- 
ing and removing the plates, etc., is as near like that of the 
formal dinner as the amount of assistance will permit. The 
service plate is almost always used, as it is a convenience, 
and if the courses are not more than five or six, or less than 
three, this is one of the most attractive forms of enter- 
tainment. The informal dinner requires no effort whatever 
by those who have enough well-trained servants, but with 
but one to do all the serving for a large tableful there is need 
of good judgment to have it done well and yet quickly and 
easily. The suggestions thus far are for those who have 
more than one to wait and serve, but realizing that there are 
many, particularly among those who live in apartments, who 
are quite able to entertain occasionally, with but one maid of 
all work, the following suggestions are offered for their es- 
pecial benefit, and, it is hoped, with their hearty co-operation 
and approval. 



8 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

THE INFORMAL DINNER WITH BUT ONE BOTH 
TO COOK AND SERVE 

The table should be set quite as for the informal dinner, 
with all the extras on a side table and all knives, forks, etc., 
on table from the beginning. Goblets are filled with iced 
water, and everything needful in readiness as much as 
possible. If butter be served the bread-and-butter plate is 
placed at end of forks and the butter ball, spreader, and bread 
or roll placed upon it. The plates for each course are 
placed, one at a time, in front of host and hostess, the maid 
taking each one as it is filled and placing it in front of the 
guest from the right with the right hand. She must be cau- 
tioned, above all, never to reach in front of any one at table 
in placing or removing. The service plate may be dispensed 
with, although it is a simple matter to have it on the table 
before dinner is ready, to hold the soup plate or the first 
course. In "Hints to the Novice" will be found all further 
directions for serving, where two plates must be removed or 
placed at once in order to make but few trips to the pantry 
and kitchen and also to give time to finish cooking the suc- 
ceeding courses. At this dinner guests, as well as the family, 
help others and themselves by passing the necessary acces- 
sories from one to the other. In spite of all these departures 
from accepted rules this informal dinner with but little ser- 
vice is often the most enjoyable of all entertainments. 

THE FORMAL LUNCHEON 

The serving of the formal luncheon is quite like the formal 
dinner, but the menu is slightly different and the table may 
be bare, with doilies of lace or linen, or a combination of both, 



DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS 9 

under the plates and dishes and a centre piece to correspond. 
A handsome embroidered or lace-trimmed all-over cloth is 
often used and it is always good form to use a fine damask 
cloth. This is merely a question of taste and convenience. 
There are always flowers as for dinner, and candles or low- 
shaded electric lights are often used on the table. When 
luncheon is announced the hostess asks her friends to follow 
her without formality and they find their places at table by 
means of the place cards. A simple, plain card is always in 
good taste, but so also are the novelties which one may find 
in the shops or make at home. The service plate is on the 
table, just as for dinner, and if the beginning be oysters, 
fruit, canap6s, or any of the larger hors d'oeuvres or bonnes 
bouches, they are placed in small plates on the service 
plate before guests are called. The hostess, if she is so 
disposed, may serve a tiny wafer or any of the hors d'oeuvres 
or canapes, such as may be taken in the fingers, with a cock- 
tail, in the drawing-room before the luncheon. The luncheon 
menu may be chosen from the suggestions given for the 
dinner menu, with the following exceptions. - After the 
"beginning" soup is served, from the pantry in two-handled 
cups, an entree of fish, meat, poultry, or mushrooms comes 
next, then fillets of poultry, chops, beef, or any small ar- 
rangement of meat with its sauce and a harmonious vege- 
table and relish. The roast or "piece de resistance" is 
omitted, although anything "en casserole" is quite appro- 
priate. This may be followed by a vegetable entree and 
then a salad of mayonnaise or cooked or French dress- 
ing with cheese wafers or cheese and wafers, or the vege- 
table entree may be left out; and then comes the dessert, 
which may be, as for dinner, any dainty, sweet dish or simply 
fruit. These courses are all arranged in the kitchen or pan- 



10 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

try and served from platters or dishes, or some of them may 
be served on plates and placed. The hostess may serve the 
salad and the dessert, although these are often served from 
the pantry. Wines are not always offered and never more 
than one kind. Sauterne, being the favorite wine for ladies' 
luncheons, or a fruit, tea, or wine cup is always acceptable, 
especially in warm weather. The " cup " is poured from 
handsome glass or silver pitchers into tall glasses, and the 
white wine is served from decanters or pitchers, or even 
from the bottle, wrapped in a napkin, into attractive sauterne 
glasses. Of course, there are bonbons and salted nuts and 
the usual relishes. Coffee is served in the drawing-room, 
and also cordials if they be served at all. 

THE INFORMAL LUNCHEON 

This is a simple affair, the first course of which may be 
soup in cups, or fruit in glasses, or these may be omitted 
and the luncheon begin with the main course which may be 
fish, meat, eggs, mushrooms, or poultry in some dainty 
fashion. Salad may follow and then the dessert or sweets, 
and cake or fruit, and then finger bowls and coffee. It is 
quite the fad now to banish all sweets from the informal 
luncheon, and even the formal luncheon may be sweetless 
and perfectly proper, because of the universal desire of the 
women of to-day to keep lithe and slender. 




FORMAL AND INFORMAL BREAKFASTS 



These breakfasts are not the early kind where one breaks 
one's fast with a cup of tea or coffee and the roll or slice of 
toast. They are sometimes quite elaborate and they take 
place any time from ten to twelve-thirty. They may be 
served in the house in winter but never in summer. The 
"al fresco" breakfast is a deservedly popular repast. The 
table should be set and served almost as for luncheon, but 
the food is not the same. Fruit is served, and perhaps 
after the fruit a mild hors d'oeuvre, but no soup. We may 
then have fish of any kind, broiled or sauted, or kidneys 
broiled or devilled, with an accompaniment of cucumbers or 
tomatoes in French dressing. With these may be served hot 
rolls, muflBns, or gems, then we may have lamb chops, little 
tenderloins of beef, or small veal cutlets, and mushrooms, 
with potatoes cooked in any of the hundred different ways 
except plain mashed. The next course may be chicken 
broiled or sauted or fried with hominy or rice, and the coffee 
in breakfast cups, hot, rich, and deep amber for those who 
take cream. We will finish with any of the omelette souf- 

11 



12 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

fles with jam or fruit, or we may omit either the fish, meat, 
or chicken course and have a savory omelette. In this case 
we would finish with hot waffles with maple sugar, or with 
sugar and cinnamon or vanilla sugar, or with any of the good 
American griddle cakes with maple sirup to pour over them. 
If in season, a strawberry or any fresh-fruit shortcake may 
be served, if it be made with biscuit crust. 

If it be a slightly informal affair the coffee may be served 
by the hostess from a large tray at her place, upon which is 
her "cover" as well as cups and saucers. Cream and sugar 
are passed and teaspoons are .placed at right of knives or at 
top of plate. Finger bowls are placed before guests are 
seated and the fruit, which is always more or less prepared, 
is passed. Grape-fruit and oranges are cut in halves and 
then cut free from skin and pulp. Peaches, apricots, and 
apples are served whole, and berries are always placed on 
small plates. A silver fruit knife is placed with the knives 
for such fruit as must be cut at table, and a teaspoon for 
melons and berries. The finger bowls are removed after 
this course and placed again at the end of the meal, if neces- 
sary. A suitable menu would be: the fruit, always ice-cold, 
then the old-fashioned dish of ham and eggs with creamed 
potatoes and johnny-cake, or we may begin with the most 
favored cereal of the fifty-seven different varieties, provid- 
ing it be cooked in the fireless cooker, and after that some 
frizzled beef, or creamed codfish with strips of broiled bacon 
around it, or fresh or salt mackerel, kippered herring, or 
finnan-haddie broiled and covered with plenty of cream, 
and potatoes baked a half-hour in a quick oven, then 
broken open so that their well-scrubbed skins will be crisp 
and give forth a delicious aroma. In the winter delicately 
cooked sausages, or broiled pork tenderloin with apples 



BREAKFASTS 13 

sautM in unpeeled slices and dusted with sugar, and buck- 
wheat or cornmeal cakes; and if the weather be warm, there 
is nothing better than salt codfish balls and bacon, or crisp 
bacon and shirred eggs, hot rolls, and marmalade, jam, or 
honey. 

THE WEDDING BREAKFAST 

The wedding breakfast, being a formal function, should 
be served in the dining-room with all the flowers and fur- 
belows that usually appear at weddings. The menu may 
be quite like the formal luncheon. If guests can be seated 
at the table, or at small tables, the following suggestions are 
appropriate. 

Begin with hors d'oeuvres, canapes, or fruit, follow with 
small fish or a fish entree with cucumber sandwiches, then 
serve a meat, chicken, or sweetbread entree with buttered 
rolls. Coffee in teacups, with sugar and cream, may be 
passed after this entree is served. Salads of chicken, lob- 
ster, crab meat, or celery, and fruit, with mayonnaise and 
rolled-bread or toasted-cheese sandwiches. Finish with ice- 
creams and fancy cakes, and have the usual black fruit 
wedding cake in boxes for the guests when leaving. There 
may also be a white cake for the bride to cut. If it be a 
large affair, where guests are to be served while seated around 
the room, nothing should be served that may not be eaten 
with a fork or spoon. Bouillon or consomm6 in cups with 
whipped cream may be served first, or hors d'oeuvres instead 
of the broth; cooked lobster may follow, then sweetbreads 
or chicken and mushrooms creamed and in ramekin dishes, 
or patties, followed by the salad and ices. Champagne, 
possibly preceded by sherry, may be served, although this 
is not often done. The large wedding breakfast menu, in 



14 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

fact, is so nearly that of a luncheon that, except for the hour 
when it is served, it could scarcely be called a breakfast, if it 
were not the fashion to do so. 

THE EARLY BREAKFAST 

The early breakfast is no longer, except among the few 
of old fashion and of vigorous digestion, what it used to 
be in the days when a trip to Europe was a nine days' 
wonder. One of the excellent innovations brought about by 
the closer bond of constant travel is the Continental break- 
fast. We can scarcely recommend, however, the cold roll 
and the huge cup of "caf6 au lait" that is everywhere popular 
except in England, where the early breakfast is a cup of 
tea, but we have found that a little fruit, or a cereal followed 
by hot rolls, crumpets, muffins, or toast with a cup of coffee, 
tea, or cocoa is about all we care to begin the day with. Of 
course, we may add an egg or a bit of bacon, or a very little 
broiled fresh or smoked fish without fear of overdoing the 
light breakfast regime; and we may also take honey or 
orange or even gooseberry marmalade, or pineapple jam, 
with our hot rolls, muffins, or toast. 




Evening collations include all kinds of suppers, beginning 
with the modest meal served in the majority of homes on 
Sunday evening, the little supper after the theatre or as a 
finish to an evening at cards or music, or the more elaborate 
affair that is served at evening wedding receptions, or toward 
midnight after a dance or a reception. 



LITTLE SUPPERS 

These little suppers may be served at the card tables 
after a change of partners so that those who play together 
do not sup together, or there may be a most informal gath- 
ering around the dining-room table, which is decorated and 
garnished quite as for an informal luncheon. Bare tables, 
doilies, flowers, bonbons, nuts, lighted candles, and olives 
and celery form the background for the supper menu. 
One may serve bouillon with whipped cream, salads, and 
sandwiches or biscuit, and possibly cakes and ices and, 
of course, coffee. But a simpler menu is more popular. 
Sandwiches filled with mayonnaise of celery, chicken, lob- 
ster, or sweetbread, or cheese mixed with nuts, olives, pimen- 
toes, or green peppers or tomato sandwiches are all desirable 

15 



16 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

to serve with coffee, or beer for those who like it. Ginger ale 
is also served and. If any sweets at all, the simplest of cakes 
or gingerbread. Or the chafing-dish may be manipulated 
by the host or hostess for which all kinds of cheese mixtures, 
Newburgs, and creamed dishes are suitable. Desserts are 
rarely served at these little suppers, and if salads are served 
they may be of chicken, lobster, celery, and fruits, or potato 
and egg salad when in season. Toasted cheese sandwiches 
are always acceptable and chocolate may take the place of 
coffee. In the summer iced drinks and ice-creams may be 
served instead of heavy salads and sandwiches. 

THE SUNDAY-NIGHT SUPPER 

This may consist of salads, cold meats, sardines, bread 
and butter or warm biscuits, or any of the numerous hot 
entrees may take the place of the salad. The chafing-dish 
is often used and usually there is cake and a dish of canned 
or fresh fruit or preserves to finish with. 

Tea, coffee, or chocolate may also be served and cold 
drinks in summer. Many hostesses offer nothing to the 
guest or guests who happen in at supper-time on Sunday 
evening, but thin slices of bread and butter put together 
like sandwiches, a plate of mixed cold meat, tea, and cakes. 

THE WEDDING SUPPER OR MIDNIGHT 
COLLATION 

For this affair the table should be elaborately decorated and 
well lighted. This is usually a buffet supper with the most 
decorative viands on the table. At a wedding the guests 
usually resort to the dining-room early in the evening, also 
at any evening reception; while if the affair is a dance or a 



EVENING COLLATIONS 17 

musical or theatrical entertainment, midnight is a suitable 
time to foregather around the table. For either of these, 
the menu includes hot bouillon, hot entries, light sandwiches, 
dainty biscuit, cold entries, and salads with thick dressings, 
coffee, wine, or punch, frozen creams or ices, and the light 
fancy cakes-, called " petits fours." This is quite as much as 
any one should indxilge in and very much less of a menu would 
be, possibly, quite as acceptable. Guests are served in re- 
lays, as many as can be seated around the dining-room and 
ante-rooms at once, or, if the gathering be small enough, 
from small tables in the dining-room and adjacent rooms. 
The dining-room table is most elaborate with flowers, can- 
dles, bonbons, and all sorts of handsome made dishes, with 
piles of plates with napkins between and rows of forks and 
spoons at hand for the serving by experienced waiters or 
waitresses. Coffee is served in teacups and cream and sugar 
are passed. Occasionally champagne is served. 

Care should be taken not to overcrowd the table and to 
have but one of each kind of decorated dish. Coffee and all 
hot dishes are served from the pantry, and ices are usually in 
fancy forms. At this function guests may help each other, 
but it is better form to have a sufficiently large corps of 
waiters to take care of every one. One waiter to ten persons 
is considered to be quite equal to the occasion. 

Punches or frapp6s are usually served during the entire 
evening at a side table, in the hall or small ante-room, from 
a large glass bowl, and with a silver ladle poiu-ed into the 
punch glasses. This evening collation gives an opportunity 
to display ingenuity and originality, as the artistic decora- 
tions and gastronomic creations show to great advantage. 
Good taste demands a little restraint, however, that the hand 
of the caterer be not too apparent. The key-note to the suc- 
cess of such an entertainment is individuality and refinement. 



1^^^ 


^^^^ 


^MM, 


[fflmiMKM ^Sr ' V X^^S^^^HJjHf^^l 


1 jt ^^^^fc «h ==t|^ ^L-i^S 


^^^^^^Vj^ij fc >, ^.^= jjfcf==-d^^ "^'^^^T^^^ 



The five o'clock function may be four of your dear friends 
in for a chat, or the finish of a game of bridge and a cosey cup 
of tea, or four hundred of your acquaintances whom you 
would like to see and upon whom you have no time to call, 
as the ceremonial visit, unless it be a "call of digestion" has 
fallen into "innocuous desuetude." Or it may be a recep- 
tion for your debutante daughter, or, possibly, for your 
yoiuig son, to which all of your own friends as well as the 
younger folk should be invited; or you may wish to intro- 
duce out-of-town friends or new-comers hito the social set 
of your own town or city. Whatsoever and for whomso- 
ever it may be, these five o'clock affairs are delightful if 
the arrangements be in harmony with the size and cause of 
the entertainment. 

THE CUP OF TEA 

For the small reunion of friends the tea should be made 
and served in the drawing-room or in any living-room but the 
dining-room, and in the summer out of doors, if possible. 
For this occasion only the simplest and daintiest of sand- 

18 



FIVE O'CLOCK FUNCTIONS 19 

wiches or thin slices of bread and butter and cakes are served 
with hot tea in winter and with iced tea, coffee, or punch in 
hot weather. No service or assistance is necessary except to 
bring the required articles; the hostess pours the tea and 
guests help each other and themselves. 



THE CARD PARTY 

The five o'clock function may also be the delightful end- 
ing of an afternoon card party, when the two, three, or 
four tables of players are augmented at the tea hour by a 
few others who are not addicted to the seductive game of 
bridge. This card party calls for a little more in food and 
service, although it is also an informal affair. Guests may be 
asked to the dining-room, where they are informally served. 
It is also popular, when a large number are to be entertained, 
for the hostess to invite players to go to the dining-room 
when they are "dummies." The refreshments then are most 
simple and the serving and "pouring" begins early and con- 
tinues until the last guest departs. Friends of the hostess 
always preside at each end of this buffet table as they do at 
the regular "five o'clock." 

The menu may be nothing more than tea, coffee, or choco- 
late and sandwiches and dainty cakes, or there may be bouil- 
lon in cups with whipped cream, and wafers, light sandwiches, 
and a salad with mayonnaise, either of fruit or of celery, 
chicken, or lobster, and ice-creams or ices in glasses, with 
fancy cakes. Bonbons and salted nuts are on the prettily 
dressed table, and candles and olives and flowers, of course. 
Any of these extra dishes may be omitted, the bouillon or 
the salad or the ices, but there are always bonbons and nuts 
and flowers and sandwiches, the latter being often warm bis- 



20 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

cuits or hot toast with cheese filling, as well as cold bread. 
If the party be small and confined to the players, the refresh- 
ments may then be served at the card tables, after they are 
covered with tea-cloths and the necessary accessories; the 
players then go to other tables so that all may have a 
chance to chat with one another. Perhaps it is a question of 
doubtful taste to serve so much at a simple afternoon card 
party, but as many hostesses are inclined to do so, it is best 
to suggest how it is done for the benefit of those who are be- 
ginning or who do not remember such trivial details. 

THE LARGE RECEPTION 

This is a more pretentious affair and the refreshments 
shoiild be served in the dining-room. A very pretty table 
may be arranged with flowers and lights, a friend of the 
hostess seated at each end of the table to serve tea, coffee, 
or ices. At very large entertainments- the ices and cakes 
are served in a room close to the dining-room, another 
pretty but smaller table and more friends being called into 
requisition. The refreshments for a large afternoon func- 
tion, besides the drinks already mentioned, should consist 
of small sandwiches, small cakes, olives, salted nuts? and 
bonbons, to which may be added, at the discretion of the 
hostess, bouillon, salads, or even hot patties and ices and ice- 
creams. The simpler refreshments are always in good taste. 
Napkins are not always necessary and are not often used 
at these very large affairs if the refreshments are suflSiciently 
simple to be taken while standing, as the tiny sandwiches 
and cakes are usually placed on the plate, upon which also 
is the cup, without saucer, and are partaken of sparingly 
with the gloved fingers. When arrangements are made for 



FIVE O'CLOCK FUNCTIONS 21 

seating guests around the dining-room a little more in the 
way of refreshments is offered than the simple sandwiches 
and cakes. The servants needed for this large affair are one 
at the door, two in the kitchen, one in the butler's pantry, 
three in the dining-room (or but one, with young friends of 
the hostess to assist in the serving), a maid in each dressing- 
room, and perhaps a man to give the numbers to those 
"who come in automobiles and carriages. 

There is often an orchestra at these entertainments, small 
or large, according to the size of the house and where the 
musicians must be placed. It should always be concealed 
from sight by a screen of foliage and flowers and placed far 
enough from the drawing-room to enable guests to enjoy 
conversation. 




The chafing-dish has become a necessary adjunct to the 
modern household equipment, as it is not only convenient 
but conducive to sociability. It is no new thing, however, 
as it was popular in the eighteenth century, when it was 
called a "dishcross or spider." It offers now, as it did then, 
perhaps, an opportunity for the manipulator to display culi- 
nary skill. The achievements of the chafing-dish are occa- 
sionally quite marvellous and are always acceptable to the 
few who are the fortunate guests. The chafing-dish party 
is necessarily rather small, as no dish has yet been intro- 
duced which is large enough to serve more than six or eight 
persons. If the party be too large for one, often two or more 
are used, and guests are invited to show their skill. The 
chafing-dish is often used for the making of many dishes 
which may be cooked on the kitchen stove quite as success- 
fully, but there are a few especial chafing-dish recipes which 
would spoil if carried from kitchen stove to dining-room table. 
All rabbits and Newburgs should be served the instant they 
are ready and this applies also to souffles. There are all 
kinds of chafing-dishes, but one with the lamp close to the 
blazer and with a spreading flame is the best. The electric 

22 



CHAFING-DISH CREATIONS 23 

chafer is, of course, the most convenient, but very good work 
may be done with denatured alcohol. To cook quickly, use 
only the blazer, (the upper pan,) and have it hot before you 
begin. Use a chafing-dish spoon which is of silver or metal, 
with a wooden or ivory handle. Have an extra fork and 
teaspoon to try with, if you are not sure of your seasoning, 
and a small napkin. 

Before beginning to cook see that the table is well sup- 
plied with knives, forks, and napkins for each guest, and 
that all the ingredients needed are prepared and neatly ar- 
ranged around your tray; to wait for one ingredient some- 
times means the ruination of the whole dish. 

Recipes especially suitable for the chafing-dish are given 
in the section on Chafing-dish Cookery. 




■HI 


|lS®M^EaiMii§s 




iliili 


^^^^^^^ 


'■^^^Bl 






^i^ii 



The recipes in the following section are usually served as a 
first course at dinners or luncheons and are supposed to be 
appetizers. The bonnes bouches, however, are occasionally 
served as a/ garnish to meat and vegetable courses. In 
Europe the hors d'ceuvres are often served at the end of din- 
ner and always at the beginning of luncheons. It is also a 
Russian custom, quite popiilar here and in other coimtries, 
to serve such hors d'ceuvres and canapes as may be eaten 
from the fingers with cocktails or other liquors in the draw- 
ing-room or library just before the dinner or luncheon is an- 
nounced. If larger canapes or hors d'ceuvres are to be 
served in the dining-room, tiny wafers 
accompany the cocktails to the drawing- 
room. These beginnings, if not served 
in the drawing-room, are usually placed 
on the service plate, in small plates, 
before the guests are summoned, and 
but one of a kind is served, with the 
following exception: oysters or clams 
on the shell may fol- 
low canapes or hors t^v^-^- 
d'oeuvres, but with ,ja£-.„^Bf.'?^4 
the short menus one 
should avoid repeti- 
tion of food or flavor. 

24 




SOME BEGINNINGS 25 



CANAPES 

Method. — Canap6s are small slices of bread toasted, or 
sauted in butter and spread with savory butter or cream 
and covered and garnished ^ith meats, fish, vegetables, 
savories, etc., and served either hot or cold. Cut bread in 
J^-inch slices, then in disks, diamonds, strips, stars, or leaves; 
toast it, and when cool spread with the butter or cream, then 
garnish according to directions in following recipes. The 
bread may be spread with plain butter, then covered with 
the savory and garnished with savory butter or cream put 
through a pastry tube. These may be eaten with a fork, or 
the fingers if too difficult to cut with a fork. 

/• Savory Butters. — Cream butter and wash out the salt. 
Mix with an equal amount of any of the following savories, or 
with any two that combine well. Anchovy, chervil, chilli sauce, 
English chutney, crab-meat, chicken, cucumber, curry, herring, 
horseradish, finnan-haddie, French mustard, gherkins, green 
peppers, lobster, olives, Parmesan cheese, parsley, pimento or 
sweet red peppers, boiled egg yolks, smoked salmon, sardines, 
shrimps, spinach, and water-cress. 

2. Savory Creams. — Add to any savory butter, before 
adding the savory, enough thick cream to make mixture quite 
soft, and place on ice. 

3. Anchovy Canapes, Cold. — Dip edges of toast in egg, 
then in finely minced parsley or chervil, spread with anchovy 
butter, garnish with cold boiled eggs, olives, and capers; or use 
Tartar Sauce, boned anchovy curled around edge, and garnish 
with a stuffed olive or gherkin fan — cut the gherkin in thin 
slices, not quite through, and put ends together; or cover 
toast with tomato slices, curl an anchovy in centre, and season 
with lemon and onion juice and paprika. Or garnish with 
powdered egg yolks and diced whites. Or spread toast with 
anchovy butter, cover with mayonnaise mixed with chilli sauce, 



26 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

garnish with yolks and whites of cooked eggs and a ring of green 
pepper around edge. 

4. Artichoke Canapes, Cold.— Toast, any savory but- 
ter, artichoke fonds — use those that are canned if necessary — 
fill them with the savory used in the butter mixed with mayon- 
naise. Garnish with minced beets. 

5. Caviar Canapes, Cold. — Add 3 tbsps. lemon juice to 
6 tbsps. Russian caviar, spread toast and garnish with minced 
water-cress, or with a stoned olive filled with mayonnaise. Or 
spread toast with egg-yolk butter, put rings of egg white around 
edge, fill centre with caviar, and place a disk of scalloped cucum- 
ber in centre, upon which place a star of beet or carrot or a large 
caper surrounded with tiny pearl onions. These onions may 
be bought in bottles. Another way: Spread toast with plain 
butter or mayonnaise, cover with artichoke fonds filled with 
the caviar mixed with lemon juice, and garnish with eggs. 

6. Chicken and Ham, or Tongue Canapes, Cold. — 

Spread toast with mustard butter, cover with minced chicken 
and meat, and garnish with olives, pickles, capers, and pearl 
onions. Or border the edges with minced tongue or ham, fill 
centre with chicken mixed with mayonnaise, and garnish with 
minced truffle. 

7. Cucumber and Bacon Canapes, Cold. — Mix equal 
parts of diced cold broiled bacon and minced cucumber with 
mayonnaise, spread on toast, and garnish with minced green 
pepper and pearl onions. 

8. Crab, Lobster, or Shrimp Canapes, Cold. — Mix fish 
with anchovy paste, French mustard, and lemon juice, spread 
on toast, and garnish with egg whites and yolks. Or spread 
toast with crab-meat butter seasoned with paprika, mustard, 
and lemon juice or sherry, and garnish with a dusting of Par- 
mesan. Or spread toast with cheese butter, cover with the fish 
mixed with mayonnaise, and garnish with eggs and capers. Or 
line small moulds with aspic jelly, garnish with egg white, capers, 
and parsley, add a little more aspic, and when slightly set fill 
with the minced fish mixed with aspic, cream, minced gherkins, 
and sweet red peppers and seasoned with salt, cayenne, and nut- 
meg. When set turn out on entire-wheat bread, toasted, and 
spread with mustard butter sprinkled with egg yolk. 



SOME BEGINNINGS 27 

9. Crab-meat and Cheese Canapes, Hot. — Cover strips 
of bread sauted in olive oil with crab-meat mixed with cream, 
salt, paprika, and lemon juice. Dust with Parmesan and brown 
under gas or in hot oven. 

10. Egg Canapes, Cold. — Shell, cut ends, and remove 
yolks from 6 hard-boiled eggs, fill with Tartar Sauce, and place 
in centre of rounds of toast spread with caviar, anchovy, or 
slices of tomato, and garnish with green and red pepper. Or 
cut cold boiled eggs into baskets, mix yolks with mayonnaise, 
fill baskets, and place on ovals of toast spread with minced ham 
mixed with chilli sauce. Garnish with remaining egg whites 
and minced gherkins, beets, and capers. 

11. Ham Canapes, Cold and Hot. — Spread brown bread 
toast with mustard cream, cover with minced ham mixed with a 
little currant jelly, garnish with olives, and serve cold. Or mix 
ham with a little tomato, chutney, or chilli sauce, spread toast, 
dust with cheese, and put in oven until very hot. 

12. Mushroom Canapes, Hot. — Cook fresh mushrooms in 
butter, place on rounds of toast spread with chervil or parsley 
butter, pipe a mound of beaten egg white seasoned with salt 
and pepper on each mushroom, and place in hot oven until 
meringue is brown. 

13. Pate de Foie Gras and Olives Canapes, Cold. — 

Spread stars of sauted bread with pat^ de foie gras softened 
with cream, trim edges of points with narrow strips of trufile, 
fill witlji strips of olives, pipe on edge of olives savory butter 
colored pink with paprika, fill centre with a disk of beet. 

14. Prunes and Bacon Canapes, Hot. — Remove stones 
from large prunes and olives, stuff olives with capers and bits 
of anchovy, put them in the prunes, wrap each prune in bacon, 
and tie with a thread. Place in hot oven until bacon is crisp, 
remove thread, and place on disks of toast spread with Par- 
mesan butter. 

15. Salmon and Caviar Canapes, Cold. — Spread entire- 
wheat bread toast with horseradish butter, garnish with strips of 
smoked salmon, fill with caviar, and sprinkle with Ume juice. 

16. Salmon or Finnan-haddie Canapes, Hot. — Soak 
salmon or haddie in warm milk, shred it, and cover toast spread 



28 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

with anchovy paste and butter or with plain butter mixed with 
a few drops of sherry, dot with butter, dust with paprika, and 
broil. 

17. Sardine Canapes, Cold.— Mash sardines with tar- 
ragon vinegar, add paprika. Tabasco, and onion salt — which 
may be bought in bottles — and spread on entire-wheat but- 
tered toast. Cover with cream cheese pressed" through a potato 
ricer and garnish with water-cress and capers. Or omit cheese 
and garnish with cold boiled eggs. 

18. Sardine and Bacon Canapes, Hot. — Spread thin 
slices of bacon with French mustard, cover with sardines sea- 
soned with lemon juice and paprika, roll and tie with thread. 
Crisp in hot oven and serve on rounds of buttered toast dusted 
with cheese. 

19. Sausage and Cheese Canapes, Hot or Cold. — 

Cover rounds of toast spread with cheese cream with half-disks 
of smoked sausage and imported Swiss or cheddar cheese and 
dust with paprika. These may also be served with salad. 

20. Sweetbread Canapes, Cold. — Spread brown-bread 
toast with creamed butter mixed with pate de foie gras, cover 
with cooked sweetbreads mixed with minced cucumber, pepper- 
grass, and mayonnaise. Garnish with asparagus tips and sweet 
red peppers. 

21. Tomato Canapes, Cold. — ^Put a slice of toma^ on each 
round of toast, remove soft sections and fill alternately with 
boiled egg yolk and caviar. Put a mound of chopped egg white 
in centre, sprinkle with French dressing, and place any small 
flower in centre. Or fill small tomatoes with caviar, cover with 
whipped cream mixed with horseradish, and dust with paprika. 

22. Tomato Canapes, Hot. — ^Place a slice of tomato on 
each round of buttered toast, cover with minced onion washed 
in cold water, and grated chee? e, dust with paprika, and broil 
or put in oven until cheese is melted. Garnish with minced 
pimento. 

23. Tongue Canapes, Cold. — Spread toast with mustard 
cream, garnish with tiny strips of tongue, put a lozenge of white 



SOME BEGINNINGS 29 

meat of chicken in centre, on this put a slice of truffle, both 
marinaded in French dressing. 

24. Tunnyfish Canapes, Cold — Spread toast with horse- 
radish butter, lay on strips of tunnyfish (it comes in small jars), 
and garnish with slices of gherkin. 

bvSTERS AND CLAMS 

25. Oysters and Clams on the Shell. — Serve 5 or 6 
oysters or clams on lower shell, with J^ of a lemon in centre of 
each plate. Salt, pepper, horseradish, and Tabasco are passed 
and also tiny sandwiches of brown, entire-wheat, or graham 
bread and butter. The shells may be placed on plates filled 
with finely shaved ice covered with shredded lettuce, and a 
lemon shell may be placed in centre, filled with the juice and 
pulp mixed with Vinaigrette Sauce (773). If in. season sur- 
round lemon with nasturtium blossoms. Edible cocktail sauce 
may also be served in glasses in centre of plates. The oysters 
are dipped in the sauce as they are eaten. 

26. Roast Oysters or Clams on Half-Shell. — Scrub 
oysters or clams clean, open them, loosen them from lower shell, 
and place lower shells in pans of rock salt, dust with salt and 
pepper, put 1 teasp. tomato catsup on each, cover with a 1-inch 
slice of bacon, and broil under gas or bake in a very hot oven 
until bacon is crisp. Serve 6 to each person on plate of rock 
salt garnished with parsley. A dusting of Parmesan may be 
used instead of catsup if preferred. 

COCKTAILS (Edible) 

The word cocktail is the an- 
glicized pronunciation of the name 
• of a damsel in Mexico who served 
her master with a mixed drink so 
pleasing that he gave it her name 
— Octel. So, while the liquid 
cocktail comes from Mexico, the edible cocktail is an Amer- 
ican misnomer popularized by usage. 




30 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

27. Edible Cocktail Sauce. — Mix 2 tbsps. tomato catsup, 
1 tbsp. each of horseradish, Worcestershire or any good table 
sauce, vinegar, lemon juice, and 3^ teasp. each minced onion or 
shallot, salt, and Tabasco sauce. Keep on ice several hours and 
serve 1 tbsp. in each cocktail glass containing 5 small oysters 
or clams or same amount of lobster, crab-meat, etc. 

28. Clam, Oyster, Oyster Crab, or Shrimp Cockteuls. — 

With the Edible Cocktail Sauce sprinkle clams or shrimps with 
minced green or red pepper, and oysters with celery or cucum- 
ber. For little-neck clams add 1 teasp. very finely minced cab- 
bage. 

29. Crab-Meat, Lobster, or Scallop Cocktails. — Cook 
and cool and serve with Edible Cocktail Sauce and sprinkle 
with minced green or red pepper, or with pearl onions or capers. 

30. Sardine CocktaUs. — Drain best quality of boneless 
sardines, remove skin, and break in bits. Cover with J^ cup 
chilli sauce mixed with 1 tbsp. good table sauce, 1 tbsp. horse- 
radish, 2 tbsps. lemon juice, J^ teasp. Tabasco, and plenty of 
paprika. Sprinkle with capers or tiny pearl onions. 



BONNES BOUCHES 

To be served as hors d'oeuvres or small entrees or as a 
garnish to entries. These are always small, and, as the 
name implies, but a "good mouthful" of deliciousness, and 
the foundation is either of Choux (1510) or Tartlet Paste 
(1220). 

31. Chicken Choux Glace. — Fill the cases with minced 
chicken seasoned with anchovy and capers, or with minced ham, 
celery, and mayonnaise. Brush the choux with aspic and serve 
very cold on lettuce. 

32. Cream Cheese and Smoked Fish. — Mix cheese with 
a Httle aspic and spread on sticks or triangles of Tartlet Paste 
(1220). Garnish with tiny slivers of smoked salmon, herring, 
finnan-haddie, or tunnyfish. 



SOME BEGINNINGS 31 

33. Pate de Foie Gras Cups. — ^Fill Choux or cups of 
Tartlet Paste (1220) with foie gras cut in large dice and mixed 
with whipped cream seasoned with salt and pepper. In centre 
of each place a tiny mould of aspic jelly. 

34. Shell-Fish Patties. — Mix any minced shell-fish, except 
oysters, with chopped egg white and mayonnaise seasoned with 
a spoonful of anchovy paste. Fill patties of Tartlet Paste (1220) 
and dust with powdered egg yolk, paprika, minced chervil, or 
parsley. 

35. Choux Paste for Bonnes Bouches. — Make Choux 
Paste (1510) without sugar, quite small. Fill with savories mixed 
with cream or mayonnaise, replace cover, coat with aspic jelly 
or Chaud-froid Sauce (792), or put on the chaud-froid sauce first, 
cool, and mask with the aspic, and sprinkle with minced truffles, 
olives, gherkins, or pistachio nuts. 



SMALL HORS D'CEUVRES 

Method. — These are much smaller than canapes and two 
or more varieties are often served from a glass or china dish 
having separate compartments. They should be served very 
cold and may be used, also, as a garnish for entries of meats. 

36. Anchovies in Tomatoes. — Cover anchovies with 
lemon juice and paprika, and in an hour or two place them on 
tomato slices sprinkled with powdered egg yolk and garnished 
with the egg white cut in strips. 

37. Artichoke Fonds or Celery Cups. — Parboil 6 arti- 
choke fonds, or celery hearts cut in cups, in salted, acidulated 
water, cool, and marinate in French dressing, and cover with 
diced or shredded mixed vegetables in mayonnaise. Or coat 
them with aspic and fill with caviar. Canned artichokes, which 
are already cooked, may be used. 

38. Crab-Meat Glace.-r-Turn into tiny moulds aspic jelly 
seasoned with French mustard, put a small spoonful of crab- 
meat in each, place on ice, and serve on lettuce. 

39. Cucumber Crowns. — Cut peeled cucumbers into inch 
lengths, scoop out centres, leaving a little at the bottom, fill with 



32 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

lobster or shrimp cream, and garnish edge with anchovies, 
minced olives, capers, or pimentoes. Or fill with caviar -mixed 
with lemon or lime juice, and garnish with pearl onions and 
minced cress. 

40. Dill Boats. — Peel rather small dill pickles, cut them in 
halves lengthwise, and scoop out seeds, thus forming boats. Fill 
with minced cabbage, clams, chilli sauce, and water-cress mixed 
with French dressing. 

41. Eggs and Caviar. — Cook and shell small eggs, cut a 
piece from the round end, roll in aspic, then in minced truffles, 
and serve on lettuce on a mound of caviar. 

42. Egg Quarters. — Cut hard-cooked eggs in halves, length- 
wise, remove yolks, and mix with any savory butter. Fill the 
eggs, cut them in quarters, and dip in aspic. 

43. Mushrooms Vinaigrette. — Boil small, fresh mush- 
rooms 6 minutes, cool, and cover with a hot marinade of 3^ cup 
vinegar, J^ cup of oil, bit of garlic, bay leaf, peppercorns, thyme, 
and parsley. Stir them often and serve them after an hour. 

44. Olives Stuffed. — Stone very large olives, fill with an- 
chovy cream, and serve on lettuce. 

45. Scirdines in Lemon Cups. — Scoop out lemon halves, 
cut a slice from bottom end so they will stand. Mix pulp with 
skinned and boned sardines, add French mustard, hard-boiled 
eggs chopped fine. Tabasco and mayonnaise. Fill cups and 
garnish with capers, lemon-peel straws, and straws of sweet red 
pepper. 

46. Shrimps or Caviar and Eggs. — Cut hard-boiled eggs 
in halves, remove yolks, and fill with shredded shrimps mixed 
with mayonnaise, or caviar mixed with lime juice. Garnish with 
powdered yolks and serve on lettuce leaves. 

47. Tomato Boxes. — Scoop out small peeled tomatoes, 
saving tops to replace as covers, fill with caviar mixed with the 
tomato pulp, celery, and mayonnaise. Or fill with crab-meat 
mixed with chilli sauce and mayonnaise. Place a flower across 
top and replace covers. 




SOME BEGINNINGS 33 



FRUITS 

Method. — ^Whole fruit, fruit in halves or pieces, fruit 
cocktails, or macedoines are often served instead of oysters 
canapes, hors d'oeuvres, etc., at luncheons, summer dinners, 
and twelve o'clock breakfasts. Fruit should be served very 
cold,- even whole or halves of fruit 
usually served as a first course at the 
early breakfast. Fruit cocktails are 
served in a cocktail glass with plenty 
of shaved ice and the macedoines in 
sherbet glasses or in the fruit shells : 
for instance, grape-fruit or orange 

halves or baskets, apples, bananas, melons, etc.; and are to 
be eaten with a spoon. Large double goblets, the inside 
one stemless and surrounded with shaved ice, are quite pop- 
ular for fruit macedoines and particularly for grape-fruit. 
These are in the shape of a champagne glass but much larger. 

48. Alligator Pear Cocktail. — Cut inside of the pears in 
dice, add lime juice or grape-fruit juice and pulp, and a very 
little sherry. 

49. Apple Macedoine. — Fill cups of unpeeled, red apples 
with a mixture of fruits in season, adding balls or dice of apple 
cooked in a sirup of 1 cup each of sugar and water colored red. 
Flavor sirup with geranium leaves and add lemon juice, rum, 
or sherry to the macedoine. 

50. Banana Boats. — Cut a strip from top of each banana, 
remove fruit, and cut into large balls, also cut apples, pears, and 
peaches the same size and cover them for an hour or more with 
rum or sherry sirup flavored with lemon juice. Arrange alter- 
nately in the boats like peas in a pod. 

51. Bananas and Strawberries. — Cut peeled bananas in 
two lengthwise, lay each half on a, spray of rose leaves on a 



34 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

plate, round side up, place a row of strawberries on each and 
pour over sirup flavored with red-raspberry juice, currant jelly, 
and rum or sherry. 

52. Cantaloupe. — Scoop out pulp from melon halves in 
large dice, add watermelon cubes, red raspberries, or tiny balls 
of pear, cooked in red sirup. Dust with sugar, cover with 
Marsala wine or sherry, and serve in the melon shells mixed 
with finely pounded ice. Or serve melon cut in balls in double 
goblet and sprinkle with Maraschino, adding balls of water- 
melon for garnish. 

53. Fresh Fig Cocktails. — Cut figs in dice, add grape- 
fruit or orange carpels with the juice and plenty of ice. 

54. Grape-Fruit or Oranges. — Cut fruit in halves, re- 
move centres, and free pulp from skin. There is a knife with 
turned point for this purpose. Fill centres and garnish around 
edge with any of the following: Maraschino cherries and Mal- 
aga grapes, skinned and seeded, and mixed with sherry or rum 
and dusted with sugar; bar-le-duc; fresh or preserved strawber- 
ries; Toquay grapes; banana or pineapple dice; preserved kum- 
quat slices; preserved chestnuts; or alligator-pear dice and a dash 
of salt. Or centres may be filled with apricot brandy mixed 
with candied fruits chopped rather fine. 

55. Grape-Fruit Macedoine. — ^Mix the fruit pulp with 
fresh or preserved fruits, add a little rum or sherry, fill grape- 
fruit shells or baskets, or sherbet glasses, and garnish with cubes 
of wine or mint jelly, or preserved ginger or chestnuts, or any 
candied fruit soaked in rum or sherry. 

36. Grape-Fruit Supreme. — ^Fill 
double goblet with the pulp, fill outside 
glass with finely shaved ice, and pour 1 
tbsp. of Benedictine or a cordial called 
"Forbidden Fruit" in each centre of fruit. 

57. Kumquat Cocktail.— Cut very 
ripe fruit in thin slices, sweeten, and flavor 
with Kirschwasser or orange curagoa, and 
fill glasses partly filled with ice. 




SOME BEGINNINGS 35 

58. Lemon Boats. — Cut 3 large lemons in halves, length' 
wise, remove pulp, and mix it with sweet apple and banana dice 
and shredded almonds. Fill halves and shave a piece from 
bottom of each to make them stand. 

59. Pineapple Points. — Cut unpeeled pineapple toward 
centre in pointed cubes, dust with sugar, and insert them in gob- 
lets filled with shaved ice, or in a glass partly filled with red- 
raspberry juice and ice. Place a Maraschino cherry in centre 
of each glass. 

60. Tangerine Tulips. — Cut skin of fruit half-way down 
in sections to represent tulip petals, remove fruit, cut each petal 
in a round point and turn them outward. Mix fruit with grape- 
fruit pulp and the sirup from a small bottle of Preserved Chest- 
nuts (1801) or marrons glac^. Fill tulips and garnish with the 
marrons cut in dice. 

61. Watermelon Hearts. — Cut melon in inch slices, then 
in small hearts, place the two points together on each plate, 
surround with shaved ice, dust with powdered sugar, and pour 
over each 1 teasp. of rum. 

62. Witches Cocktail. — Cut the skin of mandarin oranges 
around the middle, turn up upper half, forming a cup, loosen 
skin from lower half without removing fruit. Fill cups with 
brandy and alcohol and turn out all the lights, have room dark, 
and set fire to the contents of the cup just before guests enter 
dining-room. The one whose cup outburns the others will have 
a year of good luck. 




At the formal dinner a clear soup or consomm6 is usually 
served, and also at the informal dinner unless the courses be 
few and rather light, when a cream soup or any of the thicker 
soups are admissible. It is served from the butler's pan- 
try in 10-inch soup plates, a scant cupful in each, and placed 
on the service plate, a tablespoon or soup spoon being al- 
ready on the table. If terrapin soup, oyster-soup, or any 
of the very thick soups or chowders are to be served, a 
smaller soup plate or bouillon cup is used and but one 
half-cup served. The soup plates are removed, one at a 
time, leaving the service plate for the next course. Celery, 
dusted with salt, is passed, and with consommfe bread sticks, 
with cream soups wafers or crackers or rolled croutons, and 
with thick soups croutons. 

At luncheon bouillon, or any of the cream or thick soups, 
is served in cups, with a small spoonful of whipped cream 
added at the last moment, and these too are served from the 
butler's pantry. Bouillon spoons are already on the table 
at right of knives. 

Recipes in the following section are divided into: 

Stocks, for ordinary soups and sauces. 

Clear soups, which include bouillon, clear and strong, 
stock, and consomm6, clear and delicately flavored. 

Cream, a slightly thickened soup, of cream sauce and 
vegetables. 

36 



SOUPS 37 

Pur6e, a thick, smooth soup from stock, milk, or water 
and vegetables or minced meat or poultry. 

Bisque, a thick, smooth soup from stock, milk, or water, 
and fish or shell-fish. 

Chowder, from stock or water and small pieces of meat 
and fish, shell-fish, or vegetables. 

STOCKS 

63. Beef Stock. — Cut meat from a large shin bone of beef 
which has been cracked at market, remove marrow, and cover 
bones with 4 qts. cold water for an hour or more. Cook in 1 
tbsp. marrow, 1 sliced onion, 4 sprigs parsley, and 1 tbsp. sugar, 
add meat and sear it quickly, add to water and bones and bring 
slowly to boiling point, skim, reduce heat, and simmer 5 hours. 
Take from fire and add 1 onion stuck with 6 cloves, a bay leaf, 
a tart apple, a small carrot, and 4 celery stalks all cut in dice, 3 
peppercorns or 6 whole peppers, 3 sprigs thyme, 1 of sweet 
marjoram or a soup bunch, 1 teasp. salt and a bit of ham bone, 
if at hand. Simmer 2 hours, strain through doubled wet cheese- 
cloth, when nearly cold turn into glass jars and keep cold. 
When required remove fat and use 23^ pts. for 6 persons. 

64. Chicken Stock. — Cut fowl in pieces, remove meat from 
bones in small pieces, cover bones with 3 qts. water, and let stand 
an hour. Sear meat quickly in 1 tbsp. butter and 1 teasp. 
sugar, add to bones and water, bring slowly to boiling, reduce 
heat, and simmer 3 horn's. Now add J^ of an onion sliced, 3 
celery stalks, 2 peppercorns, small piece of red pepper, 1 teasp. 
marjoram, and simmer slowly 1 hour or more. Strain and cool. 
The meat may be minced and pounded fine and used for soups 
or souffles. 

65. White Stock. — Proceed as for Beef Stock, using a 
knuckle of veal instead of the beef and do not sear the meat. 
Any remains, cooked or uncooked, of white meat and poultry 
bones may be added. 

66. Meat Essence. — Make beef stock, cool, and remove 
fat, then boil rapidly uncovered until reduced one-half. Strain 



38 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

and cool, pour into jelly glasses, cover with the fat melted, when 
cold put on tin covers, and keep cold and use to flavor soups and 
sauces or to glaze meats and poultry. 



CLEAR SOUPS 

Method of Cleauing. — Remove fat from cold stock, bouil- 
lon, or consomme and with a cloth wrung from very hot water 
take up any particles that remain, put stock on the fire, add 
3 slightly beaten egg whites and the clean, crushed shells 
to each 2 qts. of stock when boiling, skim, and throw in a 
small piece of ice, take from fire, let stand a moment, and 
strain through a wet linen cloth. It should be perfectly 
clear. 

BouUIons 

67. Beef BouQIon. — Cut 4 lbs. lean beef in small pieces, 
crack bones, and cover them with cold water for an hour or more. 
Add meat and let stand another hour, heat slowly, and simmer 

3 hours, or put in fireless cooker for 6 hours, 
add 4 tbsps. each diced carrot and celery, 
and 1 of onion cooked in a little butter, a 
small blade of mace, half a bay leaf, 3 cloves, 
2 peppercorns, and 1 teasp. salt. Cook 
slowly 2 hours, strain, and cool. When 
cold remove fat and clear, and when serving reheat and add 1 
tbsp. each caramel and lemon juice and 2 tbsps. sherry to each 
quart; 1 ox-tail cooked with the soup meat and 3^ can of toma- 
toes added with the vegetables adds flavor. 

68. Chicken Bouillon. — Follow recipe for chicken stock, 
clear, and when reheating add 1 tbsp. sherry to each quart. 
Serve with a small spoonful of whipped cream to which may be 
added a dusting of salt, minced parsley, minced almonds, or 
pimento pur^e. 

69. Clam or Oyster BouOlon. — Chop and parboil 1 pt. 
of clams or oysters, skim, and add 3 cups hot water, J^ teasp. 
celery salt, and a small blade of mace; or a bit of onion and bay 




SOUPS 39 

leaf, a dash cayenne, and y^ teasp. salt. Cook 5 minutes, strain 
into cups, add a little butter or whipped cream to each cup. 
Dust well with paprika and serve very hot. A mixture of clams 
and oysters, or either, with a little chicken broth or tomato juice, 
to oyster bouillon, and 1 teasp. caviar to clam bouillon, make 
good combinations. 

Method. — ^AIl consommes are a clear, light-colored stock 
to which different seasonings and garnishings may be added. 
All accessories to consommes should be put in a hot tureen 
or bowl and the boiling consomm6 poured into it just before 
serving, otherwise the soup would not be clear. A little 
caramel and sherry may be added to plain consomm6, or a 
few tbsps. of clear tomato juice. When serving for dinner 
use 2 J/^ pts. of the consomme for 6 persons and 1 qt. if it be 
served in cups for luncheon. 

70. Consomme of Meat. — Cut meat from a small shin 
bone of beef and small knuckle of veal, and add to the bones any 
chicken or white meat bones at hand, or a small uncooked fowl. 
Cover bones with 5 qts. of cold water and let stand an hour, 
then simmer 2 hours, add the meat, and very slowly bring to 
boiling point, throw in a little cold water and skim, wipe sides of 
kettle carefully, and simmer slowly 4 hours. Add an onion stuck 
with 6 cloves, bay leaf, a tart apple, and small diced carrot, 4 
celery stalks cut in small pieces, 6 whole peppers, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs if at hand. Simmer 2 hours, throw in a httle cold 
water, skim, strain into a bowl in a window or cool draught so 
that the cooling of the stock will be most rapid. If a strong 
consomme is desired, after it is cold and fat removed, cook it 
in an open kettle rapidly, until well reduced, then cool, remove 
fat, and clear. 

71. Consomme Chicken. — Proceed as above, using a large 
fowl and no meat. Reduce after it has been strained and cooled 
and then clear. Any cold cooked chicken and bones, together 
with the well-cleaned feet, giblets, etc., may be added to stock 
when cooking. 



40 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

72. Consomme Game. — Proceed as for chicken consomm^, 
using slightly roasted game birds or the carcass remains, and 
flavor with port wine when serving. 



Consommes with Different Seasonings and Gamishings 

' 73. Consomme with Almonds. — Add hot consomme to 1 
cup blanched and pounded almonds softened with a little salted 
cream, or mix almonds with J^ cup soft bread crumbs salted and 
1 large egg white, and roll in small balls and poach them in hot 
water. 

74. Consomme with Cheese Balls. — Cook 4 tbsps. butter, 
}/2 cup water, and J^ teasp. each salt and paprika, with ^ cup 
flour until mixture leaves side of pan, remove from fire, and add, 
one at a time, 2 eggs. Cool and add 2 tbsps. grated cheese and 
drop from teaspoon on buttered paper and bake. 

75. Consomme Chicken with Chestnuts. — Blanch and 
cut in halves 1 cup chestnuts, boil them in stock with a little 
lemon juice, and drop them in hot chicken consomme after it 
is poured in plates or cups. 

76. Consomme Chicken with Lettuce. — Add hot con- 
somme to 3 tbsps. shredded lettuce and 1 of cooked tapioca. 

77. Consomme Chicken with Chicken Quenelles. — 

Pound 3^ cup chicken white meat with 1 egg white, add J^ cup 
cream, little salt, pepper, and dash nutmeg, and place on ice. 
Form into small olives with 2 teasps. and poach in salted sim- 
mering water. 

78. Consomme with Colored Pearls. — ^With a tiny cutter 
scoop out "pearls" the size of green peas from carrots, turnips, 
beets, truffles, and cucumbers. Add green peas and pearl 
onions — there should be 1 cup in all — hoil J^ hour in salted 
water. Drain and add the hot consomme. 

79. Consomme with Cucumber. — Peel, mince, and 
squeeze J^^ of a large cucumber, strain through cloth, and add 
juice with thin fancy slices of the cucumber to hot consomme. 

80. Consomme Chicken with Curry. — Boil 2}/^ pts. con- 
somme with 1 sour, unpeeled apple cut in slices and 1 teasp. 
.•each lemon juice and curry powder, strain, and pour onto 1 tbsp. 



SOUPS 41 

each of fried egg-plant and boiled artichoke fends cut in dice 
and 2 tbsps. boiled rice. 

81. Consomme with Egg Balls. — Add Balls to soup, and 
minced ham, tongue, or parsley, or even cheese may be added 
to the mixture. Add the whites cut in rings. 

82. Consomme with Marrow Balls. — Remove marrow 
from bones, cream it, and to 2 tbsps. add 1 teasp. minced pars- 
ley, 1 sUghtly beaten yolk, 33^ tbsps. soft bread crumbs, salt, and 
pepper, and form into small balls. Roll in the slightly beaten egg 
and boil 3 minutes in stock, drain, and add the hot consomm^. 

83. Consomme with Mushrooms. — Saute 3<C ^h. fresh 
mushrooms in butter until slightly cooked, chop fine, and boil 
them in stock 5 minutes. Or soak J^ cup dried mushrooms in 
1 cup stock an hour, then boil 15 minutes and drain. Add con- 
somm^ and garnish with whipped cream mixed with a very little 
finely minced fresh mushroom, or with minced almonds or 
pistachio nuts, or dust cream with paprika. 

84. Consomme Neapolitan. — Cut boiled macaroni in thin 
rings, roll in 2 tbsps. each grated Parmesan cheese and diced 
tongue or ham, and add the consomme. 

, 8S. Consomme with Noodles. — Cut Noodle Paste (676) 
m tiny squares, bake or boil them in water, or fry them in oil or 
butter, and add the consomme. They may be colored pale-green 
when making and served for a spring luncheon. Or the noodles 
may be made in small patties. Cut in rounds about the size of 
a silver dollar, put a little minced meat or chicken mixed with 
cream sauce or gravy in centre, dust with Parmesan cheese, wet 
edges and cover with top rounds, press well the edges, and boil 
10 minutes. 

86. Consomme with Pancakes, — ^Make 3 wheat-flour and 
a very little cornmeal griddle cakes; when cold spread half of 
them with forcemeat of any kind, put two together like a la.v«a 
cake, cover top with the filling, garnish with minced truflB^jji 
ham, or pimento, place in slow oven until filling is slightly cookea, 
cut in tiny disks, and drop one or two in each soud or plate of 
consomme. 

87. Consomme with Pates. — Mix 3^ cup cooked lamb or 
sweetbreads, minced fime, with 1 teasp. lemon juice, ^ an egjr 



42 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1 tbsp. fine bread crumbs, 1 teasp. parsley, 3 drops onion juice, 
dash each salt, nutmeg, and cayenne. Drop from teaspoon 
on buttered paper and bake. Drop into the consomme. 

88. Consomme with Pimentoes. — Cut pirnento in fancy 
shapes, hearts, and diamonds, and a truffle in thin slices and in 
clubs and spades, and add to hot consomme to serve for a card 
party. 

89. Consomme with Port Wine and Julienne Vegeta- 
bles. — Cut celery, carrots, beets, and lettuce in shreds, 1 tbsp. 
of each, add chives in inch lengths, cook them in butter, then in 
stock, add to the consomme, with J^ cup of port wine. 

90. Consomme Printanier. — Cook 2 tbsps. each of car- 
rots, beets, and turnips (cut in slices, then in fancy shapes), peas, 
asparagus tips, and shredded string beans, in salted boiling water 
20 minutes, drain, and add the consomm^. 

91. Consomme with Rice Balls. — Cook balls in boiling 
water, drain, and add the consomme. 

92. Consomme with Royales.-^Scald ^ cup milk and 
cream, mixed, with slice of onion, little parsley, and a tiny blade 
of mace, take from fire and add to 2 egg yolks and 1 white well 
beaten together, add salt, pepper, and a drop or. two of lemon 
juice, strain into a shallow, buttered pan, set pan in one of hot 
water on folds of paper, cover with buttered paper, and bake 
10 minutes in slow oven; or separate the custard, before bak- 
ing, into 3 or 4 portions, color each one differently leaving one 
plain, and poach them in separate pans. When cold cut in 
fancy shapes and add the consomme. Cooked carrots minced 
fine and colored red, curry powder dissolved in a little water or 
cocoanut milk, green peas mashed, ham minced fine, Parmesan 
or fine dairy cheese grated, spinach cooked, drained, and 
chopped fine, or tomato or pimento pulp' may be added to the 
custard. 

93. Consomme with Sweetbreads. — Cook and press 
sweetbreads in tiny rounds, saut6 them in butter, and add the 
consomme. Asparagus tips and artichoke fonds cut in slivers 
may also be added. 

94. Consomme with Timbales. — Mix 1 cup of cooked peas 
or chicken, chestnuts, or sweetbreads with 3^ cup stock, cook a 



SOUPS 43 

moment, remove from fire, add dash each salt, nutmeg, and 
cayenne and 2 egg whites beaten stiff. Fill tiny, buttered 
moulds and bake 10 minutes in a pan of hot water. 

95. Consomme with Yellow Tomatoes. — Peel the small 
plum tomatoes and cut in slices, then in dice, toss in hot butter, 
drain, and add consomme. 

CREAM SOUPS 

Method. — Cream soups are cooked vegetables, etc., 
pressed through a coarse sieve and then blended with cream 
sauce and served in cups at luncheons or suppers. They 
may be served at dinner when followed by a light menu. 
A teaspoonful of salted and whipped cream may be added to 
each cup or plate when serving. This may be dusted with 
minced parsley, nuts, or paprika. Serve croutons or crouton 
sticks. Cover vegetables with salted boiling water and cook 
until soft enough to press through sieve or colander. Blend 
3 cups of this puree with thick Cream Sauce (692), add hot 
water or stock to make 5 cups of soup, an ample amount for 
six persons. A small amount of light stock improves the 
flavor. Vegetables are improved by cooking them slightly 
in a little butter before boiling them. When raw eggs or 
soft bread crumbs are used in the following recipes use less 
flour in the cream sauce. Mix a little cold milk or cream 
with the eggs, add a little of the hot soup, and mix with the 
remainder of the soup just before serving. 

96. Cream of Almonds. — Cook 1 cup blanched almonds, 
minced and pounded fine, in half milk and water 10 minutes. 
Add a little white or chicken stock, blend with cream sauce, and 
garnish with minced pistachio nuts, shredded almonds, or 
shredded cocoanut in the whipped cream. 

97. Cream of Artichokes.— Parboil 4 canned or fresh 
artichoke fonds, drain, chop, and boil 15 minutes with a tiny 



44 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

blade of mace. Blend with cream sauce and garnish with 
minced hazel nuts mixed with the whipped cream. 

98. Cream of Asparagus Soup. — Cut tips from a large 
bunch of asparagus, boil tips until tender, and drain; boil the 
bunch until tender, about 15 minutes, in white stock or water 
with 1 slice onion, 2 cloves, blade of mace, 3 slices carrot, and 
1 tbsp. parsley. Press through sieve and blend with cream 
sauce. Garnish with the tips and whipped cream. 

99. Cream of Beans. — Soak 1 cup lima or kidney beans 
over night, drain, and cook with little onion, parsley, and celery. 
Blend with cream sauce and garnish with some of the beans cut 
in slices. A squeeze of lemon juice may be added, or J^ cup 
tomato sauce. 

100. Cream of Beets or Carrots. — Boil 6 small beets or 
use canned beets and the liquid. Add a little stock, blend with 
cream sauce, and garnish with diced beets. Or, use boiled 
carrots and garnish with asparagus tips, green peas, or shredded 
string beans. 

101. Cream of Cauliflower. — Boil a small cauliflower 
with a blade of mace, blend with cream sauce, and garnish with 
bits of cauliflower dusted with grated cheese. 

102. Cream of Celery, — Simmer slowly 2 cups celery with 
a sliced onion and 2 sprigs parsley for an hour, season with a dash 
of nutmeg, blend with cream sauce, and garnish with shredded 
lettuce, or, add 1 cup tomato pulp or J^ cup pimento pulp and 
garnish with diced celery. Or, add a little grated cocoanut and 
dissolved curry. 

103. Cream of Chestnuts. — Boil 1 pt. peeled and blanched 
chestnuts in white stock with a dash of celery salt, nutmeg, and 
cayenne until tender, blend with cream sauce, and garnish with 
some of the chestnuts shredded. 

104. Cream of Chicken. — Cook 3^ cup minced almonds 
and 1 cup minced chicken in chicken stock 10 minutes. Or use 
soft bread crumbs and grated yolks of 2 cooked eggs instead of 
the almonds. Blend with cream sauce and garnish the cream 
with shredded pistachio nuts or chopped egg white. 



SOUPS 45 

105. Cream of Corn. — Cook 1 can, or the grated corn of 
five ears, with a slice of onion and sprig of parsley 20 minutes, 
blend with cream sauce and garnish with minced chervil, green 
peppers, or tomato dice. Or, add 1 tbsp. of pimento pulp to 
the whipped cream. An egg yolk mixed with ^ cup cream 
improves this soup. 

106. Cream of Cucumber. — ^Peel 3 medium-sized cucum- 
bers, saving half of one for garnish. Slice and cover the re- 
mainder with cold water, heat slowly, and when boiling drain 
and rinse in cold water. Drain it again and saut^ in 1 tbsp. 
butter with 3^ small onion and 1 tbsp. minced parsley. Add 2 
cups white stock and simmer 1 hour. Press through colander 
and blend with cream sauce and garnish with diced cucumber 
mixed with the whipped cream and dust well with paprika. 

107. Cream of Green Peas, St. Germain. — Drain 1 can 
of peas or use 2 cups fresh peas, add slice onion, sprig parsley 
and mint, }/8 bay leaf, 1 teasp. sugar, J^ teasp. salt, and cook 
20 minutes in 2 cups water. Blend with cream sauce and garnish 
with whole peas. A little pimento or tomato may be added to 
the whipped cream. 

108. Cream of Lettuce or Sorrel. — Cook 2 bunches let- 
tuce or 1 of sorrel with a tbsp. butter, 3^ teasp. sugar, and 1 
teasp. tarragon vinegar, cover with white or chicken stock, and 
blend with cream sauce. Add 2 yolks and garnish with diced 
carrot. 

109. Cream of Mushrooms. — Cook }4 lb. fresh mush- 
rooms in a little butter 2 minutes, save a few for garnish, cover 
the remainder with water or stock, add blade mace, 1 tbsp. mush- 
room catsup, if at hand, boil until tender, and press through 
coarse sieve. Blend with cream sauce and garnish with the 
diced mushrooms. Two tbsps. sauterne may be added to the 
soup just before serving. Dried mushrooms may be used for 
the soup, but there should be a few fresh ones for garnish. Soak 
3 tbsps. of the dried mushrooms in stock or water an hour, then 
add stock, and strain through fine sieve. Two egg yolks mixed 
with cream may be added to the soup to enrich it. 

110. Cream of Onion or Soubise. — Cook 5 sliced onions 
in butter, then in water, when tender press through colander, 



46 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

blend with cream sauce, add 1 egg mixed with }/^ cup cream, and 
garnish with grated cheese or Parmesan. 

///. Cream of Oysters. — Dip 1 qt. of oysters with a fork 
one by one in 2 cups of cold water, add oyster liquor to the 
water, heat, and strain it through cheese-cloth. Add oysters 
to water and J^ cup fine cracker crumbs, 2 tbsps. butter, 3 drops 
Tabasco sauce, 1 tbsp. minced celery, little salt, and pepper. 
Cook until edges curl, add 2 cups rich milk and 1 tbsp. 
Worcestershire or any good table sauce. If desired 1 yolk with 
J^ cup cream may be added. 

112. Cream of Peanut. — Cook 2 cups roasted peanuts, 
minced fine, in water and stock, with 1 slice onion, 1 tbsp. 
parsley, and bit of bay leaf. Blend with cream sauce and gar- 
nish with minced parsley or with minced peanuts. Or use 3 
tbsps. peanut butter instead of the nuts. 

113. Creami of Potato. — Boil 5 small potatoes in water 
with 3^ an onion sliced, 4 stalks of celery diced, and a blade of 
mace. Blend with cream sauce, add 2 tbsps. sherry, and garnish 
with parsley, or add J^ cup tomato pulp instead of the sherry. 

114. Cream of Spinach. — Boil 1 qt. spinach, uncovered, in 
a very little water with 2 cups stock, bay leaf, slice of onion, 
and blade of mace. Press through sieve, blend with cream 
sauce, color green with coloring paste or liquid, and garnish with 
green peas. A cup of sorrel may be cooked with the spinach to 
add flavor. 

lis. Cream of Succotash. — Cook 1 can succotash with 
a tiny piece of salt pork and a little tomato. Blend with cream 
sauce and garnish with pimento or paprika or green pepper in 
the cream. 

116. Cream of Tomato. — Cook J^ can tomatoes with 2 
slices onion, J^ bay leaf, blade mace, 2 cloves, 2 sprigs parsley, 1 
teasp. sugar, ^ teasp. salt, and 2 drops Tabasco sauce. Before 
adding cream sauce add 3^ teasp. soda dissolved in a little water. 
A little grated cocoanut and ^ teasp. curry or 1 cup minced 
celery may be added to change flavor. Add 1 tbsp. butter. 

117. Cream of Water-Cress. — Cook 2 bunches water-cress 
in stock, blend with cream sauce, and garnish with minced cress. 
Lettuce or spinach may be added to the cress. 



SOUPS 47 

118. Cream of Vegetables. — Cook 1 cup each potato and 
celery, 1 tart apple, and J^ cup each carrots, onions, tomatoes, 
turnips, and beets, all diced, in water. Blend with cream sauce 
and garnish with minced parsley, also rice and curry. 



PUREES 

Method. — Purees are slightly thicker than cream soups 
and are not mixed with a cream sauce. They are made of 
vegetables cooked in stock or water. They may be served 
at luncheons and very light dinners. Serve croutons with 
all purees. Sinuner vegetables, etc., in 3 pts. of beef, chicken, 
or white stock or water, with the seasonings, until tender. 
Press through coarse sieve, add garnishings, and serve. 
Whipped cream is not often used as a garnish unless it be for 
luncheon. If more thickening be necessary, add boiled rice, 
potato, barley, sago, ot tapioca, or soft bread crumbs or a 
roux of butter and flour. Just before serving add a tbsp. 
butter. A roux is butter and flour cooked together. 

119. Barley and Tomato Puree. — Simmer 2 tbsps. barley 
in stock, add 4 tbsps. tomato pulp and 2 of shredded celery 
cooked in a little butter. Or, use apples instead of celery and 
add 1 teasp. dissolved curry. 

120. Bean or Black-Bean Puree. — Soak 2 cups dried 
beans or lentils, or black beans, 2 hours, drain, cover with cold 
water, and soak over night, or use lima or green beans, cook in 
water until soft with J^ an onion, 4 stalks celery, a bit of sweet 
red pepper, salt, and pepper and a small piece of salt pork, and 
press through sieve. If black beans, use ham instead of pork, 
and add 4 cloves to onion, and when serving add 6 Egg Balls (160) 
or 1 hard-boiled egg cut in small pieces, 1 teasp. Worcestershire, 
and 1 tbsp. sherry, or 2 of port wine, and thin slices of lemon. 
To a white bean soup add 3^ cup tomatoes or a little lemon juice 
and croutons. To green beans add green coloring paste and 
lemon slices. To red kidney beans add 3^ cup claret, 1 cup 



48 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

boiled rice, and 1 tbsp. butter. To lentils add tiny sausages 
boiled 5 minutes and cut in thin slices. 

121. Carrot Puree. — Scrape and cut 4 large carrots in 
slices, cook in butter, add stock, 1 teasp. sugar, dash nutmeg, 
and sprig parsley. When soft serve with croutons. Or, dice 
carrots and cook with diced onion in the butter, add stock and 
seasonings and a little boiled rice. Garnish with pearl onions 
and cooked pearl tapioca. Pearl onions are about the size of a 
small pea and may be bought in bottles. 

122. Celery Puree. — Cook 2 cups of diced celery in 
butter, then in white stock, thicken with mashed potato, and 
serve with croutons. 

123. Chestnut Puree. — Boil 1 pt. blanched chestnuts in 
water with onion, parsley, and celery, add plenty of paprika, 
and serve garnished with 1 tbsp. of minced olives. 

124. Chicken Puree. — Cook 2 cups minced chicken with 
J^ cup minced almonds in chicken stock, press through coarse 
sieve, thicken with soft bread crumbs-, and garnish with green 
peas or shredded pistachio nuts mixed with whipped cream. 
Or omit almonds and bread and add boiled rice and 1 yolk 
mixed with cream, and garnish with minced sorrel in whipped 
cream. 

125. Chicken Liver Puree. — Add 1 cup of minced chicken 
livers cooked in chicken stock to Brown Sauce, add paprika, 
and 2 tbsps. Madeira wine. 

126. Chicken and Tomato Puree. — To 3 cups chicken 
stock or gravy from fricasseed chicken add 1 cup tomato sauce. 

127. Green Pea Puree. — Cook 2 cups green peas with 1 
stalk of leek, shredded, a few lettuce leaves or sprigs of chervil, 
in butter, add water, }/2 teasp. salt, same of sugar, and when 
serving garnish with minced chervil or parsley; or with shredded 
lettuce and mint. This may be improved by adding 1 yolk 
mixed with a little cream. 

128. Mongole American Puree. — Add to Split Pea 
Puree (133) 1 cup tomato pulp and vegetables, shredded julienne 
style, and 1 cup minced sorrel if at hand. 



SOUPS 49 

129. Mushroom Puree. — Cook ^ lb. diced fresh mush- 
rooms in butter, then in stock with salt, pepper, and dash nut- 
meg, thicken with 1 yolk mixed with }/2 cup cream, and garnish 
with slices of the cooked mushroom. 

130. Pimento Puree. — Rub half of a ten-cent can of pimen- 
toes through colander, add 3 cups white or chicken stock and 

1 cup boiled rice softened with milk, add salt and 1 tbsp. each 
minced onion and celery and 2 yolks mixed with 3^ cup cream. 

131. Potato Puree, Julienne. — Cook 4 potatoes in white 
stock, season with salt, pepper, and minced parsley, and when 
serving garnish with all kinds of vegetables cut in match-like 
shreds cooked in butter. 

132. Sorrel Puree. — Cook 1 cup minced sorrel in butter, 
add white stock, blade mace, salt, and pepper, 3^ teasp. each 
sugar and white-wine vinegar, and when done add 2 yolks mixed 
with J^ cup cream ; or, use but 1 yolk and add 2 tbsps. cooked 
vermicelli, sago, tapioca, or oatmeal. 

133. Split Pea Puree. — Soak 1}^ cups split peas over night, 
cook in same water with a bit of ham bone, small piece of red 
pepper, and a small onion. Press through sieve and garnish 
with sliced lemon, 

134. Tomato Puree. — Cook 1 can tomatoes in water or 
beef stock with slice of onion, sprig parsley, stalk celery, 3 pep- 
percorns, 2 cloves, blade mace, 1 teasp. sugar, and }/2 teasp. salt. 
Garnish with minced green pepper. A little grated horseradish 
may be added if at hand. 

135. Turkey Puree. — Cover turkey bones with cold water, 
add 1 carrot, 3 stalks celery, 1 tbsp. parsley, salt, and pepper, and 
simmer 4 hours. Add a little of the turkey, minced, and thicken 
with tomato pulp and boiled rice. 

136. Vienna Puree (Potage Mongole).— This is a spe- 
cialty of one of the hotels in Vienna and is most delicious. Cook 

2 cups green peas with a tiny piece of ham in beef stock. When 
nearly soft add }/^ cup each, tomato sauce and minced sorrel. 
Press through sieve and add 1 cup julienne vegetables cooked in 
butter. A julienne is a mixture of carrots, celery, leeks, pota- 
toes, and string beans all cut in match-like shreds. 



50 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

BISQUES 

Method. — Bisques are made of shell-fish minced and 
cooked in 1 qt. of salted water J/^ an hour (oysters and clams 
only 5 minutes), with the seasonings and combined with the 
following sauce. Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 1 of flour, add 1 
cup fish stock, milk, or cream, and thicken with bread or 
cracker cnmibs, or boiled rice, and press through colander. 

137. Clam and Oyster Bisque. — Cook 1 pt. each clams 
and oysters, minced fine, with 1 slice onion, 3^ bay leaf, J^ teasp. 
salt, 2 drops Tabasco sauce, and 1 tbsp. Worcestershire, 5 
minutes, add to sauce made with milk, and garnish with Noodle 
Croutons (161). A cup of tomato pulp may be added for variety. 

138. Crab Bisque. — Mince meat of 6 large crabs, cook a 
moment in butter, add water or white stock, slice onion, parsley, 
2 cloves, tiny piece mace, little salt and cayenne, and simmer 
]/2 an hour. Blend with sauce made with water and the crab 
shells, add 34 cup white wine and garnish with boiled rice, 
shrimps, or okra. 

139. Lobster Bisque. — Remove meat from 1 medium-sized 
lobster and pound it fine with the coral, add lobster broth and 
J^ cup white wine, 1 teasp. anchovy paste, little salt, and paprika. 
Blend with sauce made of cream and when serving add a dash 
of nutmeg. Or, omit anchovy and white wine and add 2 tbsps. 
Madeira wine and 1 tomato cut in dice, or add boiled rice mixed 
with 1 teasp. curry and omit all wine. The broth is made by 
cooking the shells in water 1 hour. When using lobster for 
other purposes the broth from the shells will make a good soup. 
Garnish with whipped cream and lobster dice. 

140. Oyster Bisque. — Mince 1 pt. oysters, add the liquor 
and water, 1 cup minced celery, little salt, cayenne, mace, bay 
leaf, and Worcestershire, and blend with sauce made with cream. 
Or, omit celery and use minced chicken and use chicken stock 
instead of water. Add 1 yolk mixed with cream. 

141. Oyster Gumbo Bisque. — ^Make as above, using 1 cup 
each of okra and tomatoes instead of celery or chicken. 



SOUPS 51 

142. Shrimp Bisque. — Cook 1 pt. minced shrimps in a little 
butter with J^ cup soft bread crumbs and 1 slice onion, add J/^ 
cup boiled rice and 1 qt. water, add 1 anchovy freed from bones 
and skin, cook a moment, press through colander, and blend 
with sauce made with water. Add 1 tbsp. butter and 2 of 
sherry and serve. 



CHOWDERS 

Chowders are thick, rich soups, unstrained and usually 
served in small soup plates or shallow bowls. 

143. Clam Chowder. — Saute 4 slices salt-pork dice in a hot 
spider until crisp, take out and cook in the fat 1 sliced onion 
until quite yellow, drain from the fat, and with the pork press 
through colander into kettle. Add 2 potatoes diced, 1 cup 
tomatoes, 1 tbsp. tomato catsup, and 3 pts. water. Cook until 
potatoes are tender and add 2 doz. chopped clams which have 
been well scrubbed and cooked in a very little water until shells 
open, add the strained liquor, 3^ teasp. Tabasco, 3^ teasp. salt, 
3 large milk crackers rolled rather fine, and 1 slice toast cut in 
dice. When boiling add J^ lemon sliced in thin quarters and 
serve at once. If a creamy chowder is preferred add 1 cup rich 
milk. 

144. Com Chowder. — Saut^ pork and onion as above, add 
1 cup parboiled potato dice, J^ teasp. salt, 2 drops Tabasco, and 
3 cups boiling water. When potatoes are tender add 2 cups 
green corn cut from cob and chopped fine, 4 crackers rolled 
fine, 2 cups milk, and 2 tbsps. butter. 

145. Fish Chowder. — Cook 3 slices salt-pork dice in spider, 
take out, add 1 small onion sliced, and cook until soft and 
brown. Press pork and onion through colander into kettle, 
add 1 cup potato dice, 1 cup tomato dice, and 13^ lbs. fresh cod 
or halibut cut in small pieces, lay these in layers, add 1 qt. hot 
water, a blade of mace, and 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce. Cook 
until potatoes and fish are done, add 1 pt. milk, salt, and cayenne 
and 2 tbsps. butter. 



52 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



UNCLASSIFIED SOUPS 

These are neither thick nor clear, therefore cannot be 
classed with consommes, creams, or purees. They are all 
rich, however, and should be served at luncheons, or dinners 
when the menu is short and light. 

146. Beet-Root Soup (Russian Bortsch).— To 1 qt. beef 
stock add juice squeezed from a roasted duck or duck carcass, 
saving a small portion of the breast, 1 cup raw beet juice or juice 
of canned beets, a dash each cinnamon and nutmeg, 3^ cup 
claret, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, and 1 teasp. brown sugar. Cook 
until slightly reduced and as thick as cream, add salt and pa- 
prika, and strain through colander. Add 1 cup julienne vegeta- 
bles cooked in butter, then in a little water, small pieces of beef 
from stock, and the duck cut in slivers; Serve and pass hot 
cream in a gravy boat to be taken by those who like this pe- 
culiarly Russian combination. 

147. Chicken Gumbo. — Saute 2 tbsps. bacon or ham dice 
with }/2 sliced onion, add 3 pts. hot water or chicken stock, 1 cup 
tomatoes, 3^ can or 1 cup cooked okra cut in rings, 3^ teasp. salt, 
3 peppercorns, 1 bay leaf, and 3^ teasp. curry dissolved in a little 
stock. Simmer 1 hour, add 3^ cup green corn, cook 10 minutes, 
add 1 tbsp. of southern sassafras or gumbo file powder, which 
may be bought in bottles, and 1 cup chicken meat pounded to 
a paste. Add rice balls and serve. 

148. Green Turtle. — Cook 1 can green turtle, without the 
fat, in 1 qt. of stock, with 6 peppercorns, 6 cloves, blade mace, 
and }/2 teasp. each summer savory and thyme, 1 hour. Brown 
2 tbsps. butter with 1 sliced onion, add 2 tbsps. flour and 1 cup 
hot stock, strain, and blend with the turtle mixture. Add the 
fat cut in dice, 2 tbsps. sherry, 1 sliced lemon, and egg balls. 
Canned turtle is more easily prepared than the fresh turtle and 
much less in quantity is needed. 

149. Mock Turtle. — Cook a calf's head in water until the 
bones are free from the meat, about J^ hour. Add to meat 3^ 
lb. calf's liver, 1 teasp. vinegar, and hot water to make 4 qts. 



SOUPS 53 

Simmer 2 hours, remove meat, and cut it in small pieces, add 
bones to kettle with 1 tbsp. each onion, carrot, turnip, and celery, 
1 bay leaf, 6 whole peppers, 3 whole allspice, 1 tbsp. parsley, and 
an inch-stick of cinnamon. Simmer 2 hours, strain, and cool. 
Remove fat, and add 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of flour cooked until 
brown, the meat, 1 tbsp. boiled-ham dice, and 3 tbsps. Madeira 
wine. 

150. Mulligatawney. — Cook in 2 tbsps. butter, J/^ small 
onion, 3^ carrot, stalk celery, all cut in strips, 3^ cup cooked 
chicken dice, 1 tbsp. lean ham dice, 3^ tart apple diced, J^ cup 
tomato diced, 1 teasp. curry, 1 teasp. salt, 3 cloves, 1 tbsp. 
boiled rice, 2 drops Tabasco, and 3 pts. chicken stock. Simmer 
3^ hour and serve with sliced lemon. 

151. Ox-Tzul Soup. — Cut an ox-tail at the joints and saute 
with 1 slice salt pork or bacon and 1 sliced onion, add 2 qts. 
water, and simmer 4 hours. Add 1 carrot, 2 stalks celery, 1 
tbsp. parsley, 2 cloves, 1 teasp. salt, 3^ teasp. paprika, and cook 
another hour. Strain, cool, remove fat, reheat, add meat cut 
in small pieces, and 1 tbsp. butter cooked with 1 tbsp. flour until 
brown, to which add 1 cup of the soup. Add 3 tbsos. Madeira 
and serve. 

152. Terrapin Soup. — Simmer 1-pt. can terrapin or 1 pt. 
terrapin meat in 1 qt. white or chicken stock 3^ hour, add 3^ 
teasp. salt, blade mace, and dash cayenne. Cook 2 tbsps. but- 
ter, 1 of arrow-root, 2 hard-boiled egg yolks mashed, and 1 cup 
hot cream. When ready to serve add to the soup, with 3 tbsps. 
Madeira and 6 Egg Balls (160). 

COLD SOUPS 

Iced bouillons and consomnies as well as cold fruit soups 
are often served at luncheons and suppers when the weather 
is very hot. They are always served in bouillon or sherbet 
cups and most daintily taken with a small spoon. The 
stock soups should be slightly jellied and ice-cold. The 
jelly should be broken slightly with a fork when filling cups. 
The fruit soups may be served in cups also and should be 
very cold. 



54 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

153. Iced Bouillon or Consomme. — Add to 1 qt. of clear 
bouillon or consomme 1 tbsp. granulated gelatine softened in cold 
water, unless the stock be suiBciently jellied. This may be 
flavored with Marsala, Madeira, or port wine and 1 minced 
truffle may be added, or a little diced ham and clear tomato juice 
may be used as a flavor. Add paprika or cayenne, as it should 
be quite sharp and a few drops of tarragon vinegar improves it. 

154. Clam and Chicken Bouillon, Iced. — This should be 
frozen until nearly a frappe. Cover a dozen clams, which have 
been well washed, with }^ cup cold water and boil until the shells 
open. Take clams from shells, chop them, and add to the 
liquor, and add same amount of chicken bouillon. Season 
highly without cooking, strain through double cheese-cloth, and 
pack in a freezer and turn until half-frozen. 

155. Fruit Soup. — Cook 2 cups fruit — cherries, red rasp- 
berries, pineapple, or plums — in 1 qt. water, with sugar to taste, 
grated lemon rind, small stick cinnamon, and dash salt, until 
fruit is soft. Press through sieve and when cold add j^ cup 
white wine, claret, or sherry and serve ice-cold in small cups or 
sherbet glasses. If a slightly thick soup is preferred, add while 
cooking 1 tbsp. arrow-root, sago, or tapioca softened in cold 
water. Garnish with pineapple cubes and cherries. 



GARNISHINGS FOR SOUPS 

156. Cheese Balls. — Cook 4 tbsps. butter with ^ cup 
water, J^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne, and 5€ cup flour until 
mixture cleaves from side of pan, take from fire, add 3 small 
eggs, one at a time, cover, and when cool add 2 tbsps. grated 
cheese. Drop from teaspoon on greased tin and bake, or fry in 
deep fat. 

157. Cheese Fritter Beans.— Cook 1 teasp. each butter 
and lard with 5 tbsps. milk until boiling, take from fire, add J^ 
cup flour, J^ teasp. salt, 2 beaten eggs, and 5 tbsps. grated 
cheese. When cool drop tiny bits into hot fat. 

755. Croutons. — Cut white bread spread with butter, in 
half-inch slices and then in cubes, and brown in the oven.' 



SOUPS 55 

159. Croutons Royal. — Mash 2 hard-boiled yolks smooth 
with 1 raw yolk, 1 tbsp. butter, 3^ teasp. salt, and dash cayenne. 
Add flour to roll, roll thin, cut in }/^-inch squares, roll into ball?,. 
and poach in hot water or saute in butter. 

160. Egg Balls. — Mash 2 hard-cooked yolks with 1 raw 
yolk, 1 tbsp. melted butter, little salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. 
Add flour to roll on floured board, cut in dice, roll in balls, and 
poach in boiling water or in soup. 

161. Noodle Croutons.— Make Noodle Paste (676), cut into 
tiny squares, bake, boil, or saute them in butter. 

162. Rice Balls. — Mix 1 cup boiled rice with 1 slightly 
beaten egg, 1 tbsp. flour, little salt, and dash cayenne. A little 
minced green or red pepper, ham, or tongue may be added. Add 
flour to roll on board, about J^ inch thick, cut in squares, and roll 
in balls and poach in boiling water, or roll in crumbs and drop 
in deep fat. 




Whole cooked fish, fillets, or entrees are served at dinner 
while, with the exception of small brook trout or smelts, 
whole fish are not suitable for luncheon or supper. 

If fish be served from the butler's pantry, 
take each hot plate containing the portion in 
the right hand, remove the cold service-plate or 
soup-plate with the left hand from the left side 
of the guest, and place the hot plate from the 
right. Serve cucumbers, cress, or tomatoes in 
French Dressing, and, possibly, potatoes, or, 
when not followed by a 
heavy course, macaroni 
with cheese. Sauces for 
fish are usually served 
or poured over the fish. 
If fish be served on the 
table, the fish-platter must first be 
removed, then the plates used for 
the course at each cover. Sauterne 
or Rhine wine may be served, filling 
glasses only three-quarters full. 

163. Court Bouillon. — To 2 qts. 
water add 3^2 sliced onion, 2 cloves, 3 

56 






FISH AND FISH ENTREES 57 

sprigs parsley, 3 peppercorns, 3 whole peppers, J^ bay leaf, 
blacie of mace, 3^ teasp. paprika, J^ teasp. celery salt, 1 teasp. 
salt, and J^ cup white wine or weak tarragon vinegar. Boil fish 
in this, strain, and put aside to use again. 

164. Stuffing for Baked Fish. — Mix 1 cup bread crumbs, 
3 tbsps. melted butter, 1 teasp. minced parsley, 1 of minced 
onion, 1 of Worcestershire, 1 teasp. each capers, gherkins, and 
olives chopped fine, 1 teasp. tomato catsup, and 1 of lemon juice 
or vinegar. Add enough water to make it soft enough to stuff. 



FISH COOKED WHOLE 

165. Fish Baked. — Clean fish without removing head or 
tail, stuff with Stufiing, stand it upright on a tin sheet in a pan 
upon a few slices of salt pork or bacon, remove eyes and fins, 
wrap head and tail in wax paper to prevent burning, gash it 
across top, and insert slices of pork or bacon, dust with salt, 
pepper, and flour, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake 15 min- 
utes to the pound; or put it in a paper bag, laying it on the pork 
in the bag, without the tin, and cook 10 minutes to the pound. 
If cooked in pan baste often, adding a little hot water at first. 
It requires no basting in the bag. When done, strain liquid 
and add to 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of flour, cooked together, adding 
enough hot water to make 1}4 cups of sauce. Season with salt, 
pepper, 1 teasp. Worcestershire, and same of lemon juice. Serve 
in a boat. 

166. Fish Boiled. — Wrap fish in wet cheese-cloth, place it on 
a rack in kettle of boiling water seasoned with 1 tbsp. salt and 2 
of vinegar or lemon juice, or boil fish in Court Bouillon (163), 
which gives a better flavor. Boil 1 minute, reduce heat, and 
simmer slowly 10 minutes for each pound. Drain, remove 
skin, and place in hot oven a moment to dry. Salmon should 
be boiled more quickly to preserve its color. 

167. Fish Broiled. — Remove head and tail from large fish, 
leave small fish whole, split, clean, and spread large fish, place 
on greased broiler if to be broiled over coals, and on a greased 
tin sheet if broiled under gas, lap under thin edges, brush flesh 
side with melted butter, dust with pepper and salt, and sprinkle 
with lemon juice and place close to fire for 5 minutes, then re- 



58 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

duce heat and finish cooking. Very thick fish will take 30 
minutes, thinner fish 20 minutes. Split small fish, dust inside 
with salt and pepper, close again, dip in melted butter seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and broil 2 minutes on each 
side, then reduce heat and finish broiling on both sides. 

168. Black Bass Broiled. — Prepare as above, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs before broiUng, and when done spread with 
creamed butter mixed with minced parsley, chives, and lemon 
juice. Garnish with strips of pimento sauted a moment in 
butter. If broiled over coals, lay thin slices of salt pork on 
broiler, under skin side of fish, and turn often. 

169. Bluefish Baked or BroUed.— Follow recipes (165 
or 167), if fish is long form it in a letter S by tying string 
around head, draw through body, and tie to tail in opposite 
direction. Bake 40 minutes and serve with hot Anchovy Sauce 
(696), or broil, and cover with the following sauce. Cook 1 
peeled and sliced apple and 2 tbsps. butter until soft, add 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice, salt, and cayenne. Press through colander, add j^ 
green pepper and 1 tbsp. parsley minced and cooked in 
butter. Garnish with slices of lemon covered with minced 
parsley. HoUandaise Sauce mgiy also be served. 

170. Brook Trout Baked. — Mix 2 tbsps. soft bread crumbs 
with 3 o? minced mushrooms, 1 of parsley, and 1 truffle, add 
little salt and cayenne, and stuff well-cleaned trout. Dot with 
butter and bake in oven or paper bag 20 to 30 minutes. Spread 
with Maitre d'H6tel Sauce (763). 

171. Brook Trout Broiled. — Split trout and remove back- 
bone if possible, lay in a thin slice of bacon, dust with pepper, 
and fold together. Dip in melted butter and broil. Spread 
with butter and garnish with fried parsley and lemon slices. 

172. Brook Trout Sauted. — Roll small trout in cornmeal 
mixed with flour, salt, and pepper, and saute them in 1 tbsp. 
salt-pork fat, adding more fat when required. When nearly 
done add 1 tbsp. butter. They should be brown and crisp ahd 
but few should be cooked at a time. Keep hot on papier in oven. 

173. Butterfish or any small Pan Fish Sauted. — Cook 
as for Brook Trout, using a little more pork fat and cover for 5 
minutes while cooking, then remove cover and finish cooking. 



FISH AND FISH ENTRffiS 59 

174. Frogs' Legs BroOed. — Marinate IJ^ lbs. frogs' legs, 
drain, broil 5 minutes on each side, dot with butter, and sprinkle 
with minced parsley, dash nutmeg, and lemon juice, or parboil 
the frogs, dip in melted butter or bacon fat, dust with flour, and 
broil. Serve with Black Butter Sauce (701). 

175. Frogs' Legs Fried or Sauted. — Dry legs, roll in flour, 
shake free from extra flour, dip in beaten egg mixed with a little 
milk, pepper and salt, roll in very fine cracker crumbs, and fry 
in deep fat. Or roll in cornmeal mixed with flour, pepper and 
salt, and lay them in hot spider, with 1 tbsp. salt-pork fat, close 
together, and cook until brown on both sides. Add a little but- 
ter as fat is absorbed. Serve sprinkled with Braisle (789). 

176. Frogs* Legs Stewed, a la Poulette. — Cook 2 lbs. 
frogs' legs in 1 tbsp. butter, turning quickly, add J^ cup white 
wine or lemon juice and water, 3^ cup water, }/^ teasp. salt, and 
dash cayenne and nutmeg. Simmer 15 minutes, add 1 cup 
white stock, and cook until tender, drain, place on hot dish, add 
sauce, and serve at once. Sauce. — Cook 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of 
flour, add \]/2 cups of the liquor in which they are cooked and 
when boiling add 1 tbsp. minced parsley and 2 yolks mixed with 
J^ cup cream. Serve in ramekin dishes or put in a baking dish, 
cover' with buttered crumbs, and place in oven until crumbs are 
slightly brown. 

177. Pompano Broiled.— This is a Florida dish, most dif^- 
ficult to obtain far away from the South, but is the most de- 
licious of all fish. Split the fish, brush well with oil or melted 
butter, salt, pepper, and cayenne, broil 10 minutes, cover with 
crumbs, and finish broiling. Serve with hot Cucumber Sauce 
(706). Or, to saute them, split them in halves, dust with salt, 
pepper, and dash nutmeg, roll in flour mixed with a very little 
cornmeal, arid saute in butter. Serve with a spoonful of Cold 
Cucumber Sauce (760) on each piece. These may also be 
cooked on a plank like shad. 

178. Red Snapper Boiled. — As red snapper is a very large 
fish, it is not often served to a small family unless part of it can 
be purchased. Cook in 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. each minced 
onion, parsley, and celery, add J^ bay leaf, 2 peppercorns, and 2 
qts. hot water. Add fish in cloth, 1 teasp. salt, and 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice, and simmer 3^ hour. Serve with the following 



60 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

sauce: Mash 2 boiled yolks with 1 raw one, 2 tbsps. soft butter, 
1 teasp. mustard, 2 small gherkins, 1 tbsp. each lemon juice, 
tarragon vinegar, and white wine. Cook a moment, add 1 cup 
of the strained liquor in which the fish was boiled, and 3^ cup 
cream. 

179. Salmon Supreme BoUed.— Form a whole salmon in 
letter S with string tied through body from head to tail, tie in 
cloth, and boil in Court Bouillon (163) 3^ hour, drain, remove 
string and skin, garnish with capers and powdered egg yolks 
and whites cut in fancy shapes, and serve with lobster, shrimp, 
or Ravigate Sauce (742) hot, in a boat, or serve cold with 
Mayonnaise Jelly or Tartare Sauce. 

180. Shad BroOed. — Follow recipe for Fish Broiled. Serve 
with lemon and parsley. 

181. Shad or Whitefish. Planked.— Have plank very hot, 
brush it with oil, tack the split fish upon it, head and tail re- 
moved, skin side down. Lap under the thin side to make the fish 
of an even thickness. Dust with salt and pepper, brush with 
butter mixed with a little juice and grated rind of lemon, and 
cook 20 minutes under gas or on top grate of oven. Pipe hot 
mashed potato around edge, brush with beaten yolk diluted 
with milk, return to oven, and cook until potatoes are slightly 
colored. Add cooked mushrooms, tiny button onions, and other 
vegetables cut in dice or shreds as a garnish. Keep garnish 
around edge near potatoes. A very attractive garnish is the 
roe, creamed and put in small, scooped-out baked tomatoes, 
green or red peppers, or mushroom caps. 

182. Shad Roe Baked. — (In paper bag or casserole.) Boil 
roe in salted, acidulated water 5 minutes, drain, and cover with 
cold water 5 minutes, drain, and wipe dry. Brush with melted 
butter, dust with salt and pepper and paprika, put in bag, pour 
over }/2 cup stock and J^ cup best sherry, or water, and bake 20 
minutes. Add to sauce from bag 2 or 3 yolks mixed with 1 cup 
cream and strain over roe. Or, pour over thin Tomato Sauce. 

183. Shad Roe Broiled. — Boil roe in salted, acidulated 
water 5 minutes, drain, dip in 2 tbsps. melted butter or oil mixed 
with salt and paprika, and broil 10 minutes. Serve with broiled 
bacon and spread roe with Maitre d'H6tel Sauce (763). Or 



FISH AND FISH ENTREES 61 

cut roe in slices, put on skewers alternately with bacon, and 
broil. Serve with a Newburg sauce made with Madeira instead 
of sherry. 

184. Shad Roe Sauted. — Parboil 1 minute, plunge into cold 
water, drain, and dry. Saute in butter or pork fat until quite 
brown, cover until nearly done, place on hot dish, add 1 cup 
thin cream to pan, and when hot strain over roe. Garnish with 
water-cress, or omit cream and serve with Cucumber Sauce 
(760), to which add 1 tbsp. horseradish. 

185. Smelts Baked. — Split fish and spread flat, remove 
bones, cover with parboiled and minced oysters, dust with toast 
crumbs, salt, and pepper, a dash nutmeg, and dot with butter. 
Roll and fasten with wooden skewers, place in paper bag or in 
a pan, cover with minced parsley and onion, dot with butter, and 
bake 20 or 30 minutes. 

186. Smelts Fried. — Split, remove backbone and tails from 
12 fish, dust with salt and pepper, roll toward head, fasten 
with wooden skewers, or leave backbone and fasten heads and 
tails together In rings, dip in egg mixed with cream, crumb, 
and fry in deep fat and serve with Tartare Sauce. 

187. Smelts Sauted. — Roll in flour mixed with a very little 
cornmeal, salt and pepper, shake well, and saute in a very little 
butter or pork fat. When brown on both sides serve on thin 
strips of toast with Tartare Sauce and slices of lemon. 

188. Smelts Sauted — Boston Style. — Cut sides of smelts 
in gashes, marinate them in lemon juice, salt and pepper, drain, 
roll in cream, dust with flour, and saute in butter. Place on hot 
platter, add 2 tbsps. flour to pan, then 1 cup white stock or 
water, 1 teasp. lemon juice and 1 tbsp. anchovy paste. Pour 
around smelts and garnish them with minced parsley and bits 
of butter. 

189. Sole Poached a la Marguery. — Split fish and lay it 
in a well-buttered pan, barely cover with fish or mushroom 
stock, cover, and place in oven. Baste often until cooked. 
Place fish on warm dish, reduce liquid, add Velout^ Wine Sauce 
(756) made with white wine and pour over fish, garnish with 
cooked mussels, shrimps, and small mushrooms. As we have 
no sole in this country, use flounders or pompano. 



62 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

190. Sole au Vin Blanc. — Split fish and cut through back- 
bone, cover with 1 tbsp. lemon juice in 3^ cup hot water, dust 
with salt and pepper, and bake, covered with buttered paper, 10 
minutes. Cook 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of flour, add 1 teasp. pars- 
ley, }/2 teasp. minced onion, 3^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne, blade 
mace, and 1 cup white wine. Pour over fish and bake 20 min- 
utes. Take up fish, strain sauce, and pour over, and serve at 
once. 

191. Spanish Mackerel, Broiled. — Keep fish on ice a few 
hours before it is required. Lay the fish, split, on a well-greased 
tin on a few thin slices of salt pork, brush with egg beaten with 
a little cold water, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon juice, and 
broil 20 minutes. Dot with plenty of butter and serve with 
water-cress, parsley, and lemon slices. 

192. Whitebait Fried. — Have the little fish very cold, clean 
and dry. Fry but few at a time. Lay them on a cloth, dust 
with flour, and put them in a basket, shake slightly, and plunge 
in hot fat for 1 minute, turn into another basket, drain, and keep 
hot while cooking another lot. When all are cooked in this 
way, repeat the process, keeping them in the hot fat until 
brown. Drain and dust with salt and paprika, and serve with 
lemon slices covered with minced parsley. 



FISH ENTREES OF UNCOOKED FISH 

193. Fish Fillets Baked.— Method.— Cut fish with knife 
wet in cold water into small fillets. Saute them in butter 5 
minutes, press between two plates until cold. Put them in a 
pan with J^ cup each hot water and white wine, or 2 tbspa. 
lemon juice, dust with salt and pepper, dot with butter, and 
bake 20 minutes. Serve with Cucumber Sauce (706). 

194. Fish Fillets Baked in a Paper Bag.— Cut fillets as 
above, roll in flour mixed with salt and pepper, place a small 
piece of butter on each, and slip in a paper bag. Place on rack in 
pan and in hot oven, after 5 minutes reduce heat and bake 15 
minutes. Pour liquor in bag over fillets and serve with HoUan* 
daise Sauce (722). 



FISH AND FISH ENTREES 63 

195. Fish Fillets Baked with Anchovy.— Place fillets in 
buttered pan, dust with salt and pepper, and sprinkle with lemon 
juice. Cover with buttered paper and bake 15 minutes. Cover 
with Anchovy Sauce (696), then dust lightly with Parmesan, 
and put under gas-stove blaze or in hot oven until cheese is 
melted. Serve on platter with ovals of fried bread dipped in 
Meat Essence (69) until glazed and dusted with Parmesan 
cheese. 

196. Fish Fillets Fried. — Dust fillets with salt and pepper 
and roll in flour, then in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
Drain on soft paper and serve with Tartare Sauce or Hollandaise 
Sauce. Or fry the fillets the Jewish way, which is delicious. 
Roll them in flour seasoned with salt and pepper, . then in 
slightly beaten egg, and fry in the hot fat until brown. Serve 
with Tomato Tartare Sauce (771). 

197. Fish Fillets Sauted. — Dust fish with salt, pepper and 
roll in flour mixed with cornmeal, and cook in 1 tbsp. hot salt- 
pork fat in a saute pan, turning often until brown. A tbsp. of 
butter may be added when partly cooked. If a thick coating is 
preferred, they may also be rolled in fine crumbs. Or when fish is 
light-brown cover with the following sauce and cook 5 minutes. 
Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 1 of flour until brown, add 1 cup 
tomato pulp and 3^ cup hot water or fish stock boiled with 4 
cloves, 3^ bay-leaf, and J^ teasp. each salt and paprika. Place 
fish on hot platter and strain sauce over it. 

198. Flounder Fillets Stuffed and Baked. — Cut flounder 
in six narrow strips, free from skin and quite thin. Spread with 
lobster, shrimp, anchovy, or sardines mixed with butter, roll, and 
fasten with buttered wooden toothpicks, dust with salt and 
paprika, sprinkle with lemon juice, dot with butter, and bake 
20 ininutes. Serve with sauce seasoned to harmonize with the 
stuffing. 

199. Flounder FOlets Stuffed and Fried.-T^Prepare strips 
as above, wind them around cork-shaped pieces of carrot, and 
fasten with wooden skewers, cover with 1 cup stock made from 
bones of fish, 3^ cup white wine, 3^ teasp. salt, and J^ teasp. pa- 
prika, and simmer 20 minutes. Drain, remove carrot, stuff with 
the following mixture, cool, dip in flour, egg, and crumbs, and 
fry in deep fat, and serve with Lobster Sauce (725). Cook 1 



64 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

tbsp. butter with 1 of flour, add J^ cup of the fish stock, J^ cup 
each shrimps and oysters chopped rather fine, 1 teasp, Worces- 
tershire, 34 teasp. salt, 2 drops Tabasco, and 1 yolk. Or fry fish 
without removing the carrots, then take them out and fill with 
minced scallops which have been rolled in seasoned flour and 
cooked in a Uttle butter. Put a spoonful of Tartare Sauce on 
each. 

200. Halibut Fillets Baked with Cheese Sauce.— Cut 

2 lbs. halibut 1 inch thick in fillets with a wet knife, dust with 
salt and pepper, baste with }/2 cup rich milk, and bake 20 min- 
utes. Place on hot platter, cover with Cheese Sauce (705), 
sprinkle with browned bread crumbs, and place in oven a 
moment. 

201. Halibut Fillets Baked with Cream Sauce. — Lay 6 

slices salt pork in baking pan, cover with 1 minced onion and 
1 tbsp. parsley, place 6 small fillets on the pork, spread them 
with 2 tbsps. butter creamed and mixed with 1 tbsp. flour, dust 
with salt and pepper, cover with soft bread crumbs, dot with 
butter, and bake 20 minutes in hot oven. Place fillets on platter, 
strain fat in pan, and to 2 tbsps. add 1 tbsp. flour, cook until 
slightly ^brown, add 1 cup cream, and pour over fish. 

202. Halibut Fillets Farcis. — Cut fish in narrow strips 
from a slice of halibut cut ^ inch thick, spread with a stuffing 
of minced mushrooms, tomato, parsley, onion, salt, paprika, and 
lemon juice. Roll and fasten with wooden skewers. Place 
in buttered pan or paper bag, pour over J^ cup stock made from 
the bones and J^ cup white wine, and bake 20 minutes. Cook 
1 tbsp. butter with 1 of flour, add strained liquor from pan or 
bag, and pour over the fish. 

203. Halibut au Jardiniere, Baked. — Cover 2 lbs. of hali- 
but steak about IJ^ inches thick with J^ cup canned tomatoes, 
1 sn^all minced onion, 1 doz. blanched and minced almonds, 1 
small green pepper or a pimento shredded, 2 tbsps. butter, and 
J4 teasp. salt. Bake 30 minutes and serve with sauce from pan 
poured over. 

204. Halibut Fillets with Tomato Mayonnaise. — Dip 

fillets in batter, fry in deep fat, and serve with Tomato Mayon- 
naise (860). 



FISH AND FISH ENTRIES 65 

205. Little Fish Moulds. — Butter small fish-shaped 
moulds, put in truffle eyes, a red-pepper mouth, and strips of 
greenish red pepper for the tail and gills. Put moulds in a pan 
of cracked ice and fill them with the following mixture. Rub 1 
cup of uncooked white-fleshed fish through coarse sieve, add 1 
tbsp. soft butter, a little at a time, J^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne 
and nutmeg, and }/2 cup whipped cream. Add 2 egg whites 
beaten stiff and place moulds on ice for an hour. Slip the 
moulds in a paper bag or on folds of paper in pan of water, 
cover with buttered paper, and bake 20 minutes in slow oven, a 
little less if baked in the bag. Let them stand a moment, then 
immould and serve surrounded with Mousseline Sauce (731). 

206. Salmon Fillets Baked. — ^Method!.— Place 6 salmon 
fillets, 1 inch thick, on a buttered pan, cover with bread crumbs, 
dot with butter, and bake 20 minutes, and pour over the follow- 
ing mixture. Cook }/2 ^^ onion and 1 tbsp. minced parsley in 
2 tbsps. butter until soft, add J^ cup each hot water and white 
wine, 3^ teasp. anchovy paste, and 1 teasp. cornstarch dissolved 
in a little water, and cook slowly 10 minutes. Strain and pour 
over the fillets. Method 2. — Prepare fish mixture as in Little 
Fish Moulds, pipe it around edge of the fillets, fill centres with 
minced green pepper, gherkins, and olives, garnish edge with 
capers, place fillets in a pan of hot water in folds of paper, 
cover with buttered paper folded like a tent (to stand up in the 
middle), and bake 20 minutes. Serve with Mousseline Sauce 
(731) poured around. 

207. Salmon Fillets Broiled or Fried. — Soak the fish in 
cold water an hour, drain, and cover with boiling water, drain, 
and broil and serve with Maitre d'H6tel Sauce (763). Or soak as 
above, egg and crumb, and place on ice for an hour or more, 
dust with flour.^hen in egg and crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with Tartare Sauce. 



66 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



FISH ENTREES OF COOKED FISH 

Method. — Boil fish in salted, acidulated water or in Court 
Bouillon (163). When cold, pick in small pieces, using bones 
and skin for stock. 

For creamed fish, flake fish in pieces of medium size. 

For croquettes and cutlets, shred fish fine. 

For souffles and timbales, shred and press through coarse 
sieve. 

208. Fish Creamed for Casseroles, Pates, Ramekins, 
or Swedish Timbale Cases. — Method 1. — Cook 2 tbsps. 
butter with 2 of flour, 1 teasp. each onion juice and parsley, 
and a small blade of mace. Add 1 cup rich milk, ]/2 teasp. salt, 
dash cayenne or paprika, and 2 tbsps. white wine or 1 of lemon 
juice. When boiUng take from fire and add 2 cups of fish, 3^ 
cup sliced mushrooms slightly sauted in butter, and 1 beaten 
yolk mixed with 3^ cup cream. Or omit mushrooms and add 
minced almonds and at the last moment 1 tbsp. creamed 
butter. Garnish with strips of pimento and truffles. Method 
2. — ^Marinate the fish in French dressing 2 hours, drain, and 
add to sauce made of 2 tbsps. each of flour and butter, J^ cup 
milk, and ^ cup fish stock. Add salt and paprika and 2 tbsps. 
each of tomato sauce, creamed butter, and sherry. Method 3. 
— Scald V/2 cups very rich milk with 3^ an onion sliced, 2 sprigs 
parsley, and tiny blade of mace. Leave on back of stove 2 hours, 
strain, add fish, salt, and cayenne, place in buttered dish, cover 
with soft crumbs, dot with butter, using 2 tbsps., pipe mashed 
potato around edge, brush with butter, and put in oven until 
brown. Serve with lemon and parsley. 

209. Fish Creamed in Cucumber Boats. — Add 2 cups 
flaked fish to Cream Sauce, add also 3^ teasp. curry dissolved in 
a little water. Cut rather small cucumbers in two lengthwise, 
parboil in bouillon, drain, and fill with the creamed fish, cover 
with buttered crumbs, and put in hot oven for 15 minutes. 

210. Fish Croquettes or Cutlets.— Cook 3 tbsps. butter 
with 5 of flour, add 1 cup milk, 3^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne and 



FISH AND FISH ENTREES 67 

nutmeg, 2 drops of Tabasco, 3^ teasp. onion grated, 1 teasp. , 
minced parsley, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, and 3^ teasp. Worcester- 
shire. Add 2 cups shredded fish, spread on buttered platter, , 
when very cold form into croquettes or cutlets. Crumb, egg, 
and crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with Lobster or Shrimp or 
HoUandaise sauce. 

211. Fish Souffle.— Beat 3 yolks until thick, add J^ cup 
cream, J^ teasp. salt, }^ teasp. paprika, dash nutmeg, 1 teasp. 
minced parsley, 3^ teasp. each lemon juice and grated onion, 1 
cup soft bread crumbs, and 1 cup mashed fish. Fold in the 
stiflBy beaten whites, turn into a buttered casserole or baking 
dish, sprinkle lightly with soft bread crumbs cooked in butter, 
and bake under buttered paper 20 minutes. Serve at once in 
the dish. 

212. Fish Timbales, Ordinaire. — Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 
1 of flour, add 1 cup milk, 3^ teasp. each salt and lemon juice, 
1 teasp. minced parsley, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 3 yolks , 
slightly beaten, and 1 cup fish. When cool add the whites 
beaten very stiff. Place on ice for an hour or more. Put a 
small round pf buttered paper in the bottom of well-buttered 
timbale moulds, garnish moulds with red or green pepper strips, 
pour in the mixture filling moulds only two-thirds full, place on 
paper in pan of water, cover with buttered paper, and bake in 
slow oven 15 minutes. Turn out and serve with any fish sauce. 
These may also be made with 3^ cup soft bread crumbs instead 
of flour. The paper in moulds helps to keep the shape and is 
easily removed. > 

213. Fish Timbales, Supreme. — Add to 1 cup raw fish 
pressed through a sieve 12 blanched almonds minced fine, 3^ 
teasp. salt, dash nutmieg and cayenne, 34 teasp. onion juice, 1 
cup whipped cream, and 4 egg whites beaten very stiff. Butter 
and garnish moulds with pimento, green pepper, or olives, or 
capers and truffles, dipping them in melted butter to hold in 
place, fill with the mixture, leaving an inch for swelling, place 
in pan of hot water on folds of paper, cover with buttered paper, 
and bake 20 minutes for 1 large mould and 12 minutes for small 
ones. Turn out and serve with Cold Cucumber Sauce (760) or 
HoUandaise Sauce (719) poured over. 

214. Salmon Curried. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 3^ sliced 
onion and 2 tbsps. grated cocoanut until onion is soft but not 



68 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

brown, add mashed yolks of 2 hard-cooked eggs and IJ^ cups 
rich milk. Add 1 teasp. curry dissolved in a little milk, J^ cup 
boiled rice, 3^ teasp. salt, 3^ teasp. paprika, and 2 cups of flaked 
salmon. Serve in a casserole with browned crumbs over top 
or on a platter with a rice border. 

215. Salmon Cutlets. — Mix 2 beaten eggs, 2 tbsps. melted 
butter, 34 cup rich milk, J^ teasp. paprika, 3^ teasp. salt, and 
dash of nutmeg with 1 cup soft bread crumbs and 2 cups 
shredded salmon. Form into cutlets, egg and crumb, and fry in 
deep fat. Serve with HoUandaise Sauce (719). 

216. Salmon Souffle with Lobster. — Beat 3 yolks well, 
add 1 cup mashed salmon, 1 cup lobster, shredded fine, 1 tbsp. 
melted butter, 3^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne and powdered mace, 
and 1 cup cream. Beat well and fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites. Turn into a buttered mould garnished with lobster coral 
and slices of gherkin and pimento, cover with buttered paper 
and cook in a pan of water, on paper, J^ an hour. Serve in dish 
and pass HoUandaise Sauce (719) in a boat. 

217. Shad Roe Creamed. — Boil roe 20 minutes in hot 
water with salt, whole peppers, 1 tbsp. vinegar, and a slice of 
onion. Drain, plunge in cold water, drain again, and break in 
small pieces with a fork. Mix with ^ cup cream sauce, add 
1 yolk mixed with 34 cup thick cream and 1 teasp. lemon juice. 
Serve in ramekin dishes or fill sweet red or green peppers, cover 
with buttered crumbs, and brow^. 



SMOKED FISH OR FISH IN OIL 

218. Finnan-Haddie with Cream. — Select a thick had- 
die without strong odor, cover it, flesh side down, with cold water, 
and let stand 3^ hour. Drain and cover with water that has 
just boiled and is very hot but not boiling, and let stand 15 
minutes. Drain, dot flesh side with butter, and broil 20 min- 
utes. Lay on hot platter, dot with butter again, and pour over 
1 cup of hot cream. Dust with paprika, garnish with lemon 
slices covered with minced parsley, and send to table very hot. 
All that is left may be flaked and served in cream sauce or 
cooked in the chafing-dish as a Newburg. 



FISH AND FISH ENTREES 69 

219. Finnan-Haddie and Lobster or Shrimps. En- 
tree. — Soak haddie as above, flake it rather fine, and mix with 
cream sauce. Make Swedish Rosettes (807) and put a spoonful 
of haddie on top, and in centre place a few shrimps or lobster 
dice. A good entree for luncheon. 

220. Finnan-Haddie with Tomato Cheese Cream. 
Entree. — Press 1 cup broiled haddie through coarse sieve, heat 
with 2 tbsps. each butter and cream, take from fire, add paprika 
or cayenne, and 1 beaten egg white. Spread it lightly on ovals 
of toast, slip them in a paper bag, and bake 10 minutes. Cook 
1 cup tomato sauce, or seasoned pulp, with 1 tbsp. dairy cheese 
grated, add cayenne, a very little mustard, and 34 cup cream. 
Serve the haddie ovals with a spoonful of this sauce in centre 
of each. 

221. Sardines, Broiled. — Drain sardines from the oil, lay 
them on a fine wire broiler, and broil 5 minutes, lay them on 
toasted wafers or bread, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon juice, 
dust with paprika, and serve at once. With Cheese. — Dust sar- 
dines with grated cheese before broiling them. With Tomato 
Sauce. — Spread strips of toast with a thick tomato sauce, lay a 
broiled sardine on each, dusted with paprika. The sardines 
should be large, without bones and skin. 



COLD FISH ENTREE 

222. Fish Fillets, Cold.— Boil 6 fillets of halibut, salmon, 
or white fish 5€ of an inch thick in Court Bouillon 20 minutes. 
While warm marinate in French dressing an hour. Have very 
cold, drain, and place on platter, surround with chopped aspic, 
sprinkle each fillet with 1 tbsp. of finely minced almonds, and 
cover with Tartare Sauce or Cold Cream Sauce (759). 

223. Fish Forcemeat. — Press 1 cup cooked fish through a 
sieve, mix with J^ cup bread crumbs cooked a moment in J^ 
cup cream, add 1 slightly beaten egg, little salt and paprika, 
and lemon juice. Return to fire until very hot, cool, and use 
to line timbales, garnish fish cutlets, or to stuff fillets of fish. 

224. Salmon Cutlets, Cold. — Method 1. — Press 1 cup 
cooked salmon through sieve, add 1 cup White Sauce, }/2 cup 



70 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

shrimps diced, 2 anchovies or 1 tbsp. anchovy paste, little salt 
and paprika, and 1 tbsp. gelatine softened in 3 tbsps. white wine. 
When cold, add 3^ cup whipped cream, color pale pink, and 
turn into cutlet-shaped moulds lined with aspic. Serve with 
Cucumber Cups (794) filled with Tartare Sauce. Method 2. 
— ^Press 1 cup cooked salmon through sieve, add 1 teasp. 
anchovy paste, 2 cooked yolks pressed through sieve, a little 
salt and paprika, and 1 tbsp. tarragon vinegar. Color carmine 
and turn into a shallow buttered pan 3^ inch thick. When 
very, cold cover with i^-inch layer of Mayonnaise Jelly (853), 
mixed with J^ cup finely minced cucumber and 1 teasp. minced 
onion. Put onion in a piece of cheese-cloth, and squeeze it under 
the cold-water faucet to extract strength. Squeeze both onion 
and cucumber until dry before adding to the mayonnaise.. With 
a chop-shaped cutter wet in warm water cut into cutlet shape, 
garnish with cooked egg white, capers, gherkins, or truffles 
and pimentoes, and serve on lettuce as a fish course on a hot 
day. 

225. Salmon Fillets, Cold. — Cut salmon 1 inch thick into 
small fillets, wrap each one in a piece of cheese-cloth, and boil in 
Court Bouillon (163) or water 20 minutes. Place on ice until very 
cold and serve with a spoonful of the following sauce on each: 
Add to % cup of cold Bechamel Sauce "(BiQ) J^ cup mayon- 
naise and 14: cup minced pistachio nuts, and color pale green. 

226. Sardines in Aspic. — Drain and skin boneless sardines, 
roll each in a thin sliver of smoked salmon, place in shallow pan, 
cover well with aspic, highly seasoned with paprika and lemon 
juice. Cut out when set. They should be the shape of the 
fish. Ham or tongue may be used instead of salmon. 



SHELL-FISH 

227. Clams and Crabs Creamed. — Method 1. — Cook 
2 slices onion in 2 tbsps. of salt-pork fat, remove onion, and cook 
1 cup flaked crab meat and 1 cup chopped clams in the fat 2 
minutes. Drain them out and add another tbsp. of fat to pan 
and 2 tbsps. flour. Cook without browning and add 1 cup rich 
milk, juice of 3^ lemon, 34 teasp. paprika, 1 tbsp. minced 
parsley, 1 jA Worcestershire or tomato catsup, add the clams 



FISH AND FISH ENTREES 71 

and crab meat, and when hot serve in ramekins or in a casserole. 
Method 2. — Cook clams as above, omit lemon and other sea- 
sonings, and add 2 slightly beaten yolks mixed with )^ cup hot 
cream and 2 tbsps. Madeira wine. 

228- Clams Deviled and Broiled. — Mix 1 tbsp. each of 
olive oil, French mustard and lemon juice, add J^ teasp. each 
salt and paprika and dip 12 large clams in this, roll in fine bread 
crumbs and run them on skewers alternately with thin slices 
of bacon, and broil slowly. Serve on the skewers. 

229. Clam Fritters. — Chop 12 clams, not very fine, add to 
Batter for Fritters (775), to which add 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 1 
teasp. minced parsley, and a little paprika. The liquor from 
dams may be used in batter instead of water. Drop from a 
spoon into hot fat, cook until brown, drain on paper, and serve 
on a napkin. 

230. Crabs Creamed en Casserole. — Add to a Cream 
Sauce 2 cups fiaked crab-meat, 1 cup sliced and slightly cooked 
mushrooms, and 1 tbsp. minced green or red pepper, or add 2 
hard-boiled eggs in dice and 1 tbsp. each minced green pepper, 
chilli sauce, and Worcestershire. Serve in casseroles. 

231. Crab Croquettes. — Add to a thick Cream Sauce a 
little lemon juice, minced parsley and onion, and 2 cups flaked 
crab-meat; when cold form into croquettes and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with Cucumber Sauce (706). 

232. Crabs Deviled. — Boil Uve crabs 20 minutes, or use 
best quality of canned crabs, remove meat from shell, saving 
6 good shells. Cook 2 tbsps. minced onion or shallot in 1 of 
butter, add 2 tbsps. of flour; when bubbling add 1 cup hot cream. 
When thick take from fire, strain, and add 2 hard-cooked eggs 
chopped fine, 3 or 4 sliced mushrooms,, 1 raw yolk beaten with 
3^ teasp. each, salt, mustard, and Worcestershire, 2 drops Ta- 
basco and 1 tbsp. of tarragon vinegar. Fill shells and cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake 5 minutes: Or smooth top, im- 
merse shells and all in egg, and cover with crumbs and place on 
ice until very cold; plunge in hot fat in a basket. 

233. Crab-Meat au Gratin. — Cook 3 tbsps. butter with 
2 of flour, add J^ cup chicken stock, salt and paprika, }/^ cup 
milk mixed with 2 beaten yolks and 2 cups of flaked crab-meat. 



72 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Turn into buttered dish or small dishes, cover with grated cheese 
mixed with soft bread crambs, dot with butter, and put in oven 
until cheese is melted. 

234. Crab-Meat Souffle. — ^Mash 2 cups crab-meat quite 
smooth, add Cream Sauce, a dash each of cayenne and nutmeg, 
J^ cup of grated cheese, and 3 yolks well beaten; Fold in the 
whites stiffly beaten, turn into a buttered dish, and bake 20 
minutes. Serve in the dish garnished with sweet red pepper 
and lemon slices covered with minced parsley and cut in quar- 
ters. 

235. Crab-Meat Timbales. — Mince and mash Ij^ cups 
,crab-meat, add J^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 1 teasp. 
lemon juice, 3 tbsps. creamed butter, and 1 cup whipped cream. 
Add 3 egg whites beaten stiff, fill buttered moulds garnished 
with pimento and truffles, and bake 15 minutes in small moulds 
and 25 minutes in a large mould. Turn out and serve with 
HoUandaise Sauce (719). 

236. Crabs and Tomatoes en Coquille. — Mix 2 cups 
flaked crab-meat with 1 cup of tomato pulp, 2 tbsps. soft bread 
crumbs, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, }/2 teasp. salt, J^ teasp. paprika, 1 
teasp. French mustard, and 2 tbsps. sherry. Fill shells or rame- 
kins or green peppers, cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and 
put in oven until light brown. 

237. Lobsters Broiled Alive. — Split 3 lively lobsters, by 
holding each one with a hand-brush broom, and with a sharp 
knife begin at the head and cleave clear through. Remove in- 
testines and black vein, dust with bread crumbs and broil flesh 
side toward fire about 12 minutes. Dot with butter and send to 
table, in the shell, with sauce in a boat. Melt 1 cup butter; add 
2 tbsps. minced parsley, 2 tbsps. lemon juice, J^ teasp. salt, 
same of paprika, and a little freshly ground black pepper. Use 
the pepper mill for this. 

238. Lobster Cooked Alive— An Epicure's Dish.— 

Split the lobsters as for Broiled Lobster and cut in 4 pieces in the 
shell. Cook in a stewpan 2 sUced onions, 2 tomatoes, 3 fresh 
mushrooms, sliced, 3 tbsps. butter, 3 whole peppers, a little 
thyme, parsley, and bay-leaf. When this begins to cook add 
the lobster, dust with salt and paprika, cover, and cook gently- 
20 minutes. The tomatoes will furnish suflicient liquid. Now 



FISH AND FISH ENTREES 73 

add 1 tbsp. flour, stir and cook 2 minutes, and add 34 cup each, 
claret, white wine, and sherry, 1 tbsp. anchovy paste, 1 tbsp. 
tarragon vinegar, and ^ cup brown Tomato Sauce (750). Sim- 
mer, covered, 20 minutes, remove the shells, place lobster on a 
dish, strain sauce over it, and serve very hot. In England 
this is called the American way of cooking lobster. It is very 
delicious but exceedingly rich. 

239. Lobster Chops or Cutlets. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter 
with }/2 teasp. each minced parsley and onion, add 4 tbsps. flour; 
when boiling add 1 cup hot milk^ cream, or white stock — 
cream is best. Add }/2 teasp. salt, J^ teasp. each paprika and 
mustard, and grating of nutmeg. Add 2 cups of flaked lobster 
and spread it on a buttered, shallow dish and place on ice. Form 
into chop or cutlet shape, crumb and egg, and crumb and fry 
in hot fat. Put a claw or a stick of macaroni in each and serve 
with Bechamel or any good fish sauce. 

240. Lobster en Coquille. — Add to 1 cup Bechamel 
Sauce (699) J^ cup cream blended with 1 teasp. of anchovy 
essence, 1}/^ cups flaked lobster, 1 minced truffle, }/^ cup 
button mushrooms, and 34 teasp. of paprika. Fill shells or 
small dishes, cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and put in oven 
until brown. 

241. Lobster Creamed for Casseroles or Pates. — Cook 
2 tbsps. butter with a little minced green pepper and chives and 
23^ of flour until slightly colored, add 13^ cups hot cream or 
chicken stock, 3^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, and a 
little white wine and sherry, or omit these and add parsley and 
lemon juice. When boiling add 2 cups lobster dice or 1 cup 
lobster and 1 cup sliced fresh mushrooms and 1 minced truffle. 
Fill pates or dishes with the mixture, or fill the lobster shell cut 
to represent a boat with the claws for oars, cover with soft 
bread crumbs browned in butter, and place in oven 2 minutes. 
Serve with cucumbers in aspic. Half a cup of shredded pis- 
tachio nuts may be used instead of the mushrooms. 

242. Lobster in Croustades. — Add to Brown Sauce 1 
tbsp. minced ham, 2 tbsps. each carrot and celery, 1 teasp. 
parsley and 1 of onion, all minced fine, and a dash of powdered 
cloves, and cook until vegetables are tender. Add 1 cup lobster 
dice and }4 cup cooked mushrooms cut in small pieces. Fill 



74 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Bread Croustades (791) or Swedish Timbale Cases (806) and 
serve very hot. 

243. Lobster Curry with Rice. — Take meat from a large, 
freshly boiled lobster in as large pieces as possible and cut in 
slices. Mash all small bits with the coral and J^ cup cream and 
press through sieve. Have rice cooked in white stock moulded 
in an oval ring, brush with butter, and put in oven until hot; 
lay the lobster slices, which have been warmed in double boiler, 
in centre and pour over the sauce. Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 1 
of flour, add 1 teasp. curry dissolved in }/2 cup white stock, 
add }/2 teasp. salt, 34 teasp. paprika, the mashed lobster, J/^ cup 
cream, and 2 tbsps. fresh-grated cocoanut. When boiling pour 
over the lobster. 

244. Lobster Fillets Supreme. — Take meat from 2 large 
lobsters in 6 large pieces, heat in double boiler, lay them around 
edge of platter, and keep warm while making sauce to pour in 
centre. Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 1 of flour, add 3^ cup white 
stock or milk, J^ cup oyster liquor, 3^ teasp. salt, J^ teasp. pa- 
prika, 10 parboiled oysters, 4 cooked and sliced mushrooms, 2 
trufiBes sliced, and the remainder of the lobster flaked. When 
boiling add 3 tbsps. Madeira and 2 yolks beaten with 3^ cup 
cream and 1 tbsp. butter. 

245. Lobster Patties. — Cook 1 tbsp. each green pepper and 
onion or chives, minced, in 3 tbsps. butter, add 2 cups lobster dice, 
3 tbsps. flour, 1 cup chicken stock, salt, paprika, and J^ cup cream 
mixed with 2 beaten yolks. Add 1 tbsp. sherry and 1 of white 
wine. Fill patty cases of puff paste and serve hot. This will 
make 10 or 12 small patties. Six patties could be filled and the 
remainder warmed in double boiler next day and put in Bread 
Croustades. 

246. Lobster"' SoufHe. — Follow recipe for Salmon and 
Lobster Souffle (216), using all lobster. 

247. Lobster Timbales. — Follow recipe for Fish Timbales 
(212), using lobster and a dash of nutmeg instead of fish and 
parsley. Or use lobster, mushrooms, and truffles in a rich, thick 
cream sauce, line moulds with the coral pressed through a sieve, 
then with a layer of f arci of fish, and fill with the lobster mixture. 

248. Lobster and Mushroom Ragout. — Cook 2 tbsps. 
butter with 2 sUces onion until brown, add 2 tbsps. flour and 



FISH AND FISH ENTREES 75 

cook until slightly brown and 1^^ cups beef or fish stock, J^ teasp. 
salt, 2 drops Tabasco, and 2 cups lobster cut in small pieces. 
Add a few small cooked mushrooms with 2 tbsps. sherry, or 
add 1 teasp. French mustard in 2 tbsps. Madeira wine. 

249. Oyster Boulettes. — To 1 cup minced oysters add 1 
cup soft bread crumbs, salt, pepper, bit of mace, and a beaten 
egg. Put on ice for 2 hours, then drop small spoonfuls in hot 
butter in spider, and saute on both sides. Serve with Tomato 
Sauce (750). 

250. Oyster Chartreuse. — Line ramekins or a large 
casserole with minced chicken, seasoned well, and moistened 
with cream. Fill with parboiled oysters cut in pieces, and 
mushroom slices sauted in butter and mixed with Veloute 
Sauce (755). Cover with more chicken, cover with buttered 
crumbs, and put in oven until brown. 

251. Oysters Creamed. — ^Method 1. — Cook 2 tbsps. but- 
ter with 3 of flour until slightly brown, add 1 cup milk, 3^ cup 
strained oyster liquor, }/2 teasp. salt, dash celery salt and nut- 
meg, a little ground black pepper, or season with anchovy paste, 
lemon juice, and parsley. Add 1 pt. parboiled oysters, 2 tbsps. 
minced pimentos, fill dish or ramekins, and cover with buttered 
crumbs and put in oven, or fill puff -paste patties, or put between 
a split round of puff paste, or make puff paste in cornucopia 
shape. Cover mixture with crumbs cooked in butter. Method 
2. — Add oysters to Bechamel Sauce (699), seasoned with a blade 
of mace and 1 tbsp. sherry, fill dishes, and cover with soft bread 
crumbs, then with Parmesan cheese, dot with butter, and place 
in hot oven until brown. 

252. Oysters in Croustades. — Cook until brown 2 tbsps. 
butter and 3 of flour, add 1 teasp. onion juice, a little minced 
green pepper, and 1 cup hot, strained oyster liquor. Add J^ 
cup beef stock or a beef extract tablet dissolved in hot water, 
J^ teasp. salt, J^ teasp. anchovy paste, dash cayenne, and 1 pt. 
parboiled oysters. Fill heart-shape Bread Croustades (791) with 
edges dipped in egg and then in minced parsley and dusted well 
with paprika. The anchovy may be omitted and shrimps or 
lobster dice added with a little cream. 

253. Oysters Curried. — Cook until brown 2 tbsps. butter 
with 2 slices of onion and 2 tbsps. flour, add 1 teasp. curry dis- 



76 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

solved in a little cream, 3^ teasp. salt, 34 teasp. paprika, 1 cup 
oyster liquor, and 2 tbsps. white wine. Add 1 pt. oysters par- 
boiled and drained and serve in a rice border glaced with Meat 
Essence (66) mixed with tomato. 

254. Oyster Cutlets. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 4 of flour, 
add 3^ cup each oyster liquor and cream, 1 teasp. parsley, 3^ 
teasp. salt, dash cayenne, and 3^ teasp. anchovy essence, or sea- 
son with lemon juice, nutmeg, and celery salt. Add 1 slightly 
beaten egg and 1 cup each, parboiled oysters and cooked veal 
or mushrooms minced. Cool, crumb, egg and crumb, and cook 
in deep fat. 

255. Oysters Deviled. — Follow recipe for Clams Deviled 
(228), using oysters instead of clams, and add 3^ teasp. curry. 

256. Oysters Fried or Sauted. — Drain 1 qt. large oysters, 
wash each one in ice-water, and put them on ice for a half hour. 
Wipe dry, roll in flour seasoned with salt, pepper, a dash of 
onion salt and nutmeg, dip in beaten egg and crumb, and fry 
in deep fat. Or roll oysters in flour mixed with a very little 
cornmeal, seasoned well, then in egg diluted in 3 tbsps. milk 
and in crumbs, and saute in butter and salt-pork fat. When 
brown on both sides serve with Tartare Sauce. 

257. Oysters Masked and Fried. — Parboil 12 large oys- 
ters in the liquor 1 minute, drain, and dry. Cook 1 tbsp. butter, 
1 sprig minced parsley, a little grated onion, and 3 tbsps. flour; 
add }/2 cup white or chicken stock or oyster liquor, 3^ teasp. salt, 
dash cayenne and nutmeg, }/2 cup minced chicken or veal, and a 
little curry if liked. When thick add 2 yolks beaten with }/2 cup 
cream; cook without boiling until thick. Take from fire and 
dip oysters, one by one, in the mixture, and place on buttered 
tin far apart. When cold cover oysters with remainder of 
paste and place in the cool. Cut apart, shape, crumb, egg and 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. A thin slice of boiled ham or bacon 
partly broiled may be wrapped around oysters under the paste. 
Or, instead of crumbing, the oysters may be covered with batter. 

258. Oyster Pie. — Drain \}/2 pts. large oysters, add 2 cups 
cream, pepper, salt, and dash nutmeg, and enough fine cracker 
crumbs to thicken. Line a buttered dish with Near Puff Paste 
(1220), put in mixture, put an inverted cup in centre, cover with 
the paste, and bake % of an hour. 



FISH AND FISH ENTREES 77 

259. Oyster Rissoles.— Parboil and chop 1 cup oysters, add 
2 hard-boiled eggs chopped, 34 teasp. salt, 1 teasp. minced pars- 
ley, dash cayenne, ground black pepper, nutmeg, and 2 tbsps. 
cream. Cut puff paste in rounds, put a spoonful of mixture on 
the side of each round, wet edges, fold, making a half circle, 
pinch edges, and place in the cool. Bake or fry in deep fat. 

260. Oysters Scalloped. — Sprinkle in buttered dish a layer 
of cracker crumbs mixed with a few bread crumbs, then add a 
layer of oysters, dust with salt and a little pepper, sprinkle with 
a little minced celery and parsley, add a few drops of oyster 
liquor, then another layer of crumbs, and continue, having crumbs 
on top. Pour in 1 cup cream, dot with butter, and bake 20 
minutes. Clams may be added to the dish if desired. 

261. Oyster Souffle. — Make White Sauce with the oyster 
liquor and white stock, add 1 teasp. Worcestershire, 1 pt. 
oysters cut in very small pieces, rejecting hard muscles, 3 beaten 
yolks, and the whites beaten very stiff. Turn into souffle cups 
or a large dish, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake in pan of 
hot water on paper and under buttered paper 20 minutes. 
Serve in dish. 

262. Oyster Crabs in Croustades or English Muffins. 

— Oyster crabs, those tiny crabs found occasionally in the shell 
with the oyster, are an expensive dish and one for the epicure. 
Those who like them may cook them by either of the following 
methods: Cook 1 pt. crabs in 3 tbsps. butter, a few at a time, 
put them all back in the saute pan, add 1 tbsp. each lemon juice 
and the crab liquor, }/£ teasp. each salt and paprika, and when 
hot add to Bechamel Sauce or HoUandaise Sauce, and fill Bread 
Croustades, dust with Parmesan, dot with butter, and put in 
oven until brown. Or, use but 1 cup crabs and add 1 cup sliced 
mushrooms, and add to Cream Sauce to which add 2 beaten yolks, 
and serve in hot English muffins scooped out in shells and toasted. 

263. Scallops en Brochette. — Cover 1 pt. scallops with 
cold water and 1 teasp. salt for 1 hour, drain and boil in salted 
water 2 minutes, drain, dip in melted butter, and put on skewers 
alternately with slices of bacon, and broil quickly. Slip from 
skewers onto toast and cover with HoUandaise Sauce. 

264. Scallops Fried or Sauted. — ^Wash 1 qt. scallops, 
drain, and dry. Drop in batter one by one, fry in deep fat. 



78 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

and serve with water-cress. Or, cover them with boiling water 
a moment, drain, and dry, roll in flour seasoned with salt and 
pepper and mixed with a very little fine cornmeal, then in fine 
crumbs, and saute in butter and a little bacon fat until brown. 
Dry on soft paper and serve with the bacon. 

265. Scallops au Gratin. — ^Put in buttered dish a layer 
of soft bread crumbs mixed with soft butter, cover with scal- 
lops, dust with salt and pepper, then another layer of crumbs 
and scallops, add ^ cup cream, cover with crumbs, dot with 
butter, and bake 20 minutes. 

266. Shrimps Creamed. — Shell and remove black vein 
from 1 pt. shrimps, follow recipe for Lobster Creamed (241), 
using shrimps instead of lobster, and season with parsley, onion, 
lemon juice, and French mustard. 

267. Shrimp Timbales. — Butter timbale moulds, line 
with shrimps cut in halves, and fill with Fish Timbale Mixture 
(213) ; add a few diced shrimps. 

268. Shrimps and Tomatoes Sauted. — Dip shrimps 
in milk, roll in flour and cornmeal mixed, and saut^ a few at a 
time in 2 tbsps. butter. Place on dish, cover with tomato sauce, 
and sprinkle with 3 or 4 cooked and minced mushrooms, or serve 
on toast with Bearnaise Tomato Sauce (698). 

269. Snails Cooked. — ^These are rarely eaten in this coun- 
try, but many epicures may like to know how to cook them. 
Boil them 10 minutes, drain, remove from shell with a pin, put 
in salted water J^ hour, drain, and cover them with white-wine 
and water, ^ water to 3^ wine. Add salt, pepper, bay-leaf, 
thyme, onion, carrot, garlic, and cook until tender, an hour or 
more, put them back in the cleaned shells, and serve. 

270. Soft Shell Crabs Broiled. — Clean and dress them 
as soon as possible, lay on ice for a very short time before 
cooking them. Remove the muscles or spongy substance under 
the point of back shell, wash again, brush with butter, dust with 
salt and pepper, and broil 6 minutes, turning often. Serve 
covered with Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (763). 

271. Soft Shell Crabs Fried. — ^Method 1. — ^Dip crabs 
in flour seasoned with salt and pepper, roll them lightly in well- 



FISH AND FISH ENTREES 79 

diluted egg, then in fine bread crumbs, shake off loose crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat. Serve with cold Ravigote or Tartare 
Sauce. Method 2. — Cover the cleaned crabs with 2 cups milk 
mixed with 3 beaten eggs, and let them stand until liquid is 
absorbed. Then roll them in fine crumbs and plunge in the 
deep fat. 

272' Soft Shell Crabs Sauted. — Roll in flour mixed with 
a little cornmeal, seasoned with salt and pepper and dash of 
nutmeg, shake free from loose flour and saute, a few at a time, 
in butter, and serve with either of the above sauces. 

273. Terrapin Stewed. — Terrapin is an epicure's dish 
which must be most carefully prepared. They are so expensive 
and so diflnlcult to obtain in some parts of the country that it may 
be advisable to buy them canned from responsible persons who 
make a business of canning them 
for the market. Couters or fresh- 
water terrapin, which are much 
cheaper, may also be used as a sub- 
stitute. If fresh terrapin be used, 
secure a diamond back, very much 

aUve, and scrub him well, boil 10 minutes, drain and scrub 
again, and plunge into boiling water with 1 tbsp. salt and boil 
an hour or more, or until meat is tender. Remove meat from 
shell and cut it in small pieces. Make sauce and add this meat 
or the canned meat and serve in small hot copper or nickel 
stewpans or casseroles or in small soup plates. Sauce. — Cook 3 
tbsps. butter, add 2 boiled egg yolks rubbed smooth, 1 tbsp. 
arrow-root dissolved in 1 cup cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and 
cayenne, blade mace and Egg Balls (160), or the eggs from 
the terrapin. When very hot add 3 tbsps. Madeira wine. 





This section includes both light and substantial entrees. 
Either or both may be served at dinner if care be taken not to 
repeat materials, sauces, or flavors. Two kinds of poultry 
or two kinds of meat should never be served at the same meal, 
even though disguised as an entree. A light entree may 
follow the fish coiu-se and precede the "piece de resistance" 
at dinner, or fish may be omitted and either a light or sub- 
stantial meat or poultry entree be followed by a roast or 
game. The light entries are especially popular at lunch- 
eons and the substantial entries serve as the main course. 
If fish be served at luncheon, the light en- 
tree is rarely served unless it takes the 
place of a substantial entree, as simple, 
light, short luncheons are now in vogue. 
These entries usually are served from the 
dish or platter with the accompanying 
sauce poured over, and passed to the left 
of each guest. Or, if served on plates in 
pantry, they are placed 
from the right. After all 
have finished, plates are 
removed from the left. 
If claret is the wine se- 
lected it is served with 





ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 81 

this course. It is not necessary to serve wine at all with 
this course, and those who object to the use of wine in their 
food may substitute lemon juice or omit it altogether in the 
following recipes. 

LIGHT ENTREES 

The light entrees are served at dinners and luncheons 
after the soup or fish course and are composed of rechauff^es, 
minces, or meats, etc., in small quantities, and those that 
have been cooked and cooled should have but little recook- 
ing; therefore, have all sauces and mixtures hot, add the 
cooked food, and reheat quickly. 

Meats 

274. Beef Marrow Bones on Toast. — Have marrow 
bones cut in 2-inch pieces, cover ends with thick paste made of 
flour and water, and bake 1 hour. Remove crusts, sprinkle 
marrow with salt, pepper, paprika, and a few drops of lemon 
juice, set each piece on a round of toast, put a spoonful of Mattre 
d'Hotel Sauce (763) on each, and serve. 

275. Beef Tongue with Cardinal Sauce. — Boil and skin 
a tongue, when cold, cut in rounds with a biscuit cutter, heat them 
over hot water, stick the slices upright in a long narrow mound 
of mashed potato, and pour over Cardinal Sauce (751). 

276. Lamb Croquettes. — Follow recipe for Chicken Cro- 
quettes (326), using half potato dice or rice instead of all meat, 
and add 1 tbsp. tomato catsup or capers. 

277. Lamb SoufHe. — Follow recipe for Chicken Souffle 
(345), omit sherry, add minced green peppers and Worcester- 
shire or kitchen bouquet. 

278. Lamb's Tongue Salmi. — Cut 2 cups cooked lamb's 
tongue in small pieces, add to Madeira Saiice (727), with 1 doz. 
pimolas or stoned olives and 1 teasp. Worcestershire. 



82 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

279. Lamb's Kidneys Broiled. — Kidneys should be 
skinned and boiled 5 minutes or several hours. They are usually 
tender if cooked quickly, but they are often cooked a long time 
without seasonings. They toughen if cooked longer than 5 
minutes, but will become tender again if simmered slowly 
several hours. Split lamb kidneys in halves and soak in salted 
water an hour. Dust with salt and pepper, roll in minced mush- 
rooms, shallot or onion and parsley, forcing the mixture well 
into the kidneys with a wet knife. Cover with crumbs and 
broil 5 minutes. Arrange them around a mound of mashed 
potato, place a stoned olive on each, and pour over the potato 
a Brown, Madeira, or Tomato sauce. 

280. Lamb's Kidneys Deviled. — Boil kidneys as above, 
cut them in slices, roll in flour seasoned with salt, mustard, 
minced parsley, and plenty of paprika, moistened with a few 
drops of tarragon vinegar. Saute in clarified butter a moment 
on each side, turn them into buttered baking dish with 1 cup 
Brown Sauce and 2 tbsps. sherry. Cover with buttered bread 
crumbs, then with buttered paper, and bake 5 minutes. Serve 
in the dish with triangles of puff paste around edge. 

281. Lamb's Kidneys and Mushrooms Sauted. — 

Saut^ 1 small sliced onion in butter or drippings, add 1 tbsp. flour 
and 1 cup stock. Cook a moment, add 1 teasp. each kitchen 
bouquet and caramel, a little salt and cayenne, and the sliced and 
parboiled kidneys. Add 1 cup sauted mushrooms. When boil- 
ing serve in ramekins or on rice toast. 

282. Liver with Mushrooms. — Cut 1 cup boiled calf's 
liver in dice and 1 cup canned mushrooms in thin slices. Cook 
2 tbsps. butter with 2 of flour, add 1 cup of the liver stock well 
reduced with 1 beef extract tablet, 1 tbsp. each of Worcester- 
shire and lemon juice, little salt, paprika, dash nutmeg, and ]/2 
cup cream. Add liver and mushrooms, fill ramekin dishes, 
cover with buttered crumbs, and brown in the oven. 

283. Pate de Foie Gras Rissoles. — Roll puff paste in 
small rounds, put a slice of foie gras on half of them, wet edges 
with cold water, cover with the others, pinch edges well to- 
gether, and bake them or fry them in hot oil. Serve as an 
entree or as a garnish to the main course. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 83 

284. Salmagundi. — Mixtures of many meats or vegeta- 
bles are here called salmagundi, as they cannot be classified else- 
where. Left-overs may be utilized in any of these recipes. 

285. Savory Bouchees. — Make 6 small bouch^ cases (see 
Choux Paste 35), and fill with the following made very hot. 
Mix 1 cup cooked and minced chicken, game, ham, mush- 
rooms or artichoke fonds, season with salt, paprika, lemon juice, 
anchovy, and truffles, ■ or grated cheese. Serve hot with a 
spoonful of Madeira sauce or any good strong flavored sauce 
poured over each one. 

286. Savory Darioles. — Darioles are small moulds with a 
hollow centre. Fill these with boiled rice, or a chicken, lamb 
or veal forcemeat, poach in a pan of water in the oven, turn 
out and fill with creamed chicken, sweetbreads, artichoke fonds 
or asparagus and green peas in cream sauce. The moulds may 
be garnished before filling. Serve with a B&hamel or Velout^ 
sauce. 

287. Savory Sandwiches HoIIandaise. — Cut inch-thick 
slices of bread in rounds, scoop out centres, leaving a half- 
inch rim, fill with any minced meat, vegetable, or even sardine 
mixture, moistened slightly with cream and spread over rim also, 
cover with a thin slice of toast the same size, place a fresh sauted 
mushroom on each and pour over a HoIIandaise Sauce Rich 
(719), diist with minced truffles, and serve hot. 

288. Sausage Bundles. — Roll out plain or Near Puff Paste 
in 6-inch squares and rather thin. Cut Frankfurter sausages in 
thin slices, reject skin and lay the slices in 2 rows, like lozenges, 
in centre of the pieces of paste, fold over and pinch ends to- 
gether as you would do up a bundle or package, wetting the 
edges to make them stick, and place on ice an hour or more. 
Bake them in a hot oven 15 minutes and serve hot with French 
or German mustard, or pour over them Tomato Sauce. 

289. Sweetbreads to Blanch. — Sweetbreads should be 
blanched as soon as they come from market and cooked as soon 
as possible after they are cold. Select those that come from 
the neck of a calf — 1 pair weighs usually a pound, which is 
ample to serve as an entree for 6 persons. Soak them in cold 
water 1 hour, changing water twice, drain and cover with warm 



84 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

water, add J/^ teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 2 cloves, 2 pepper- 
corns, sprig parsley, and j/^ bay-leaf. Simmer gently 20 minutes, 
drain and cover with cold water, drain again, remove skin, 
pipes, and fibres. To form into cutlet or round shapes cut the 
large pieces and shape them with the hand, or if they are in 
small bits, as they sometimes are, run them through the meat 
chopper, coarse knife, with a slice of bacon or salt pork. Bind 
them in shape with a raw egg, wrap in cheese-cloth, or put them 
in cutlet moulds or forms. They may be formed in buttered 
muffin rings. Put them on ice. 

290. Sweetbreads Baked under Bells. — (See Mush- 
rooms under Bells, 574). Method 1. — To 1 cup Cream Sauce 
add }/2 cup highly seasoned stock and 2 cups sweetbreads in small 
pieces, the size of a walnut. Place rounds of toast on the 
nappies, cover with the creamed sweetbreads, put on the bells, 
and place in oven for 5 minutes. Send to table covered with 
the bells. Method 2. — Make sweetbreads into round cutlets, 
saute in butter a moment, glaze with Meat Essence, lay them 
on the toast in the nappies, dust with salt and pepper, place 
a large fresh sauted mushroom on each, pour over 1 tbsp. thick 
cream, put on bells, and bake 8 minutes. 

291. Sweetbreads Baked and Glazed. — Method 1. — 
Form sweetbreads into cutlets. Put a small onion and carrot, 
sliced, in a buttered pan, add 3^ bay-leaf, sprig parsley, 1 tbsp. 
green pepper, salt and pepper, cover with the cutlets, pour over 
them 1 cup Meat Essence (66), put them in the oven, and cook, 
basting often, until cutlets are brown and glossy. Serve with 
Mushroom Sauce, either white or brown. Method 2. — When 
well glazed, place on serving dish. Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 2 
of flour until brown, add the gravy from pan and enough stock 
to make 1 cupful, boil and strain, and add the juice of 1 blood 
orange, and pour around sweetbreads. 

292. Sweetbreads Baked au Jardiniere. — ^Form sweet- 
breads into cutlets. Saute 1 diced onion, 2 tbsps. celery, 1 
tbsp. green pepper and 1 of minced parsley in butter in baking 
pan, add 2 whole black and white peppers and a bit of bay-leaf. 
Lay sweetbreads on top, cover with buttered paper, and bake 
slowly 20 minutes. Now remove paper and add 1 cup stock 
and cook slowly 3^ hour, basting often. Place in the cool. Roll 
each piece in pork caul, put them in a buttered pan, sprinkle 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 85 

each with 2 drops tarragon vinegar, cover with buttered paper, 
and bake until caul is melted, about 15 minutes. A little 
minced tongue, ham, or chicken may be spread on the sweet- 
breads before they are wrapped in the caul. They are also 
good in lamb's caul. Serve with Veloute Sauce (755) around a 
puree of carrots and potato. 

293. Sweetbreads Masked and Baked. — ^Form into 
rounds in muffin rings; after mincing them, saute on one side 
in butter, lay them back, still in the rings, on the plate, cooked 
side up, remove rings, cover with a J^-inch layer of masking 
preparation (see Lamb Chops Masked, 380), and lay them in 
a buttered pan and cook in hot oven 10 minutes. Place a 
sauted mushroom on each, pour around a thin but brown mush- 
room sauce seasoned with a little Madeira, and serve around a 
mound of Egg-plant Straws (555). 

294. Sweetbreads Stuffed and Baked. — Run sweet- 
breads through meat chopper, form into thick cutlets, place on 
ice for an hour, then split them and spread between with minced 
broiled bacon mixed with beaten egg yolk, soft bread crumbs, 
salt, pepper, and paprika, and a very little grated lemon rind. 
Pour over them 1 cup Meat Essence (66) and bake 20 minutes, 
basting often. Serve with gravy in pan strained and poured 
over. 

295. Sweetbreads Broiled with Ham and Mush- 
rooriis. — Form sweetbreads in rather thin cutlets, dip in egg 
beaten with a little cream seasoned with salt, pepper, and a dash 
of nutmeg, roll iii crumbs and run them on skewers, alternating 
with fresh mushrooms dipped in butter and thin slices of ham. 
Broil 10 minutes, lay on buttered toast, put a spoonful Maitre 
d'Hotel Sauce (763) on each, and garnish with nasturtium 
blossoms. 

296. Sweetbreads Broiled with Mushroom Puree. — 

pip sweetbread cutlets in melted butter and broil them. Place 
cutlets on toast, cover with the Puree (584), and pour a little 
hot cream over them. 

297. Sweetbread Chartreuse.— Mix 1 cup chopped 
sweetbreads with 1 tbsp. butter, 3^ cup soft bread crumbs, 4 
tbsps. cream, salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, and 2 yolks. Cook 
a moment, add 3^ cup cream and 2 egg whites beaten stiff, turn 



86 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

into small moulds, and poach in oven 10 minutes. Cool, turn 
out, and roll in the following mixture: Cook 1 tbsp. butter 
with 3 of flour, add 1 cup chicken stock, 3^ cup minced chicken, 
salt, cayenne, and 3 beaten yolks. Egg, crumb, and fry cutlets 
ia hot fat and serve with Tomato Cream Sauce (752). 

298. Sweetbreads and Chicken Creamed. — Follow 
recipe for Creamed Chicken (319), using half chicken and half 
sweetbreads, and add 1 tbsp. minced ham. 

299. Sweetbreads Creamed in Cucumber Boats. — ' 

Add to 2 cups sweetbreads in small pieces 4 sliced mushrooms and 
2 minced truffles. Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 2 of flour, add IJ^ 
cups hot cream, J^ teasp. salt, J^ teasp. paprika, and pinch mace. 
When boiling add sweetbreads and 1 tbsp. white wine or lemon 
juice. Cut small, unpeeled cucumbers into boats, bake them 
slightly, fill with the sweetbreads, cover with buttered crumbs 
and return to oven for 10 minutes. Garnish with a nasturtium 
blossom or sprig of water-cress at each end. The cucumbers are 
not eaten but they give a delicious flavor to the sweetbreads. 

300. Sweetbreads Creamed a la Poulette. — Follow 
recipe for Chicken Creamed (319), using half stock and half 
cream, and add 2 egg yolks to cream and 2 tbsps. sherry. Serve 
in Swedish Timbale Cases (806). 

301. Sweetbread Croquettes. — Chop rather fine 2 cups 
sweetbreads, or use 3^ cup each minced chicken and mushrooms 
and but 1 cup sweetbreads, or add green peas and minced al- 
monds to the 1 cup sweetbreads. Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 4 
of flour, add 1 cup cream, J^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne, and sea- 
son with parsley, onion, or shallot or chives; or lemon juice, 
sherry, or Madeira. If wine be used add a dash nutmeg and a 
minced truffle. Form into croquettes and serve with Veloute 
Sauce (755). 

302. Sweetbreads Curried. — Add 2 cups sweetbreads to 
Curry Sauce (713), and serve in bread croustades. 

303. Sweetbreads Fried. — Form sweetbreads into bou- 
lettes (small balls), crumb, egg, and crumb, and fry in deep fat 
and serve with Mushroom Sauce (732). The flavor is im- 
proved by laying them for 10 minutes in orange juice before 
crumbing them. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 87 

304. Sweetbreads and Mushrooms in Green Pep- 
pers. — Make Cream Sauce with chicken stock and cream, add 1 
cup each mushroom slices and sweetbreads. Parboil green pep- 
pers 5 minutes, cool, cut ofiE tops, and remove seeds. Fill with the 
creamed mixture and serve with a thin sauce made of stock in 
which the peel and stems of mushrooms have been cooked, to 
which add a little Madeira and cream. 

305. Sweetbread Ragout. — To 1 cup sweetbreads in small 
pieces add J^ cup sliced mushrooms, 1 sliced truffle, 1 cooked 
chicken liver diced, and 1 cock's comb cut in small pieces. Add- 
Brown Sauce and small Chicken Quenelles (341), 3 tbsps. 
Madeira to the sweetbread mixture. Cook until boiling and 
serve in a large Vol au Vent (1219) of pufiE paste or in a casserole. 
The cock's combs are an Italian dainty which may be bought in 
glass jars. 

306. Sweetbreads Sauted. — ^Form sweetbreads into firm 
cutlets, saut6 them in butter or bacon fat, and serve covered 
with HoUandaise Sauce (721). 

307. Sweetbreads Sauted au Beurre Noir. — ^Form 
sweetbreads into small cakes, saute in butter, and place on hot 
dish. Cook in pan 3 tbsps. butter until brown, add 1 tbsp. each 
minced chervil, green pepper, and tarragon vinegar, and pour 
around the dish. 

308. Sweetbreads Sauted with Noodles, Spanish 
Style. — Lard the sweetbreads. Cook 1 tbsp. each minced 
onion, carrot, celery, and parsley in 2 of butter, add sweetbreads, 
and cook in saute pan, basting often until brown. In another 
pan cook 2 tbsps. butter with 2 of flour until brown, add liquid 
and vegetables from pan in which sweetbreads have been cooked, 
]/2, cup tomatoes, 1 tbsp. pimento, 1 of horseradish, and enough 
stock to make IJ^ cups of gravy. Place Noodles (676), 
boiled , in stock in centre of dish, dust them with Parmesan cheese, 
surround with the sweetbreads, and cover with the strained 
gravy. 

309. Sweetbread Souffle. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 1 
of flour, add 1 cup rich milk, when boiling add 2 cups minced 



88 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

sweetbreads, J^ cup soft crumbs, 2 beaten yolks, little salt, pep- 
per, minced parsley, onion, and celery salt, and fold in egg white. 
Bake in buttered dish 20 minutes in slow oven and serve at once. 

310. Sweetbreads in Timbale Cases. — Break sweet- 
breads in small pieces, cover them with sherry, and let stand in 
the cool 2 hours. Drain, add to Cream Sauce with a few sauted 
mushrooms, and serve in Swedish Timbale Cases (806) with rims 
dipped in parsley and paprika. 

311. Sweetbreads and Truffles Sauted. — Saut^ sweet- 
breads in small pieces in butter or bacon fat, add 3 sliced truffles, 
and add to Bechamel Sauce (699), fill ramekin dishes or timbale 
cases, cover with soft bread crumbs cooked in butter and dusted 
while cooking with 1 tbsp. Parmesan cheese. Serve at once. 

312. Veal Chops Minced or Mock Sweetbreads. — 

Remove fibres and skin from 1 lb. veal sliced thin, mince it 
rather fine with a slice salt pork, add 1 tbsp. soft butter, % cup 
bread crumbs soaked in 34 cup milk and beaten light, a grating 
of lemon peel, little salt and paprika, and a dash nutmeg. Add 
2 beaten eggs and form into cutlet shape and cool. Roll in 
beaten egg diluted with milk, and in crumbs, and saute in bacon 
fat and butter, or fry in deep fat. Serve with sauce made in 
the pan by browning a little flour, add stock, strain, and add a 
little Madeira, or if fried serve Bechamel Sauce (699). 

313. Veal Croquettes. — ^Mix 1 cup minced veal with 1 
of chopped oysters or boiled rice. Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 4 
of flour, add 3^ cup veal stock, ]/2 cup milk, }^ teasp. salt and 
paprika, the veal mixture, and 1 teasp. minced parsley and chives, 
grating lemon peel, dash nutmeg, and 1 tbsp. tomato catsup. 
Proceed as directed in Chicken Croquettes (326) and serve with 
Tomato Sauce. Cooked veal should be used. 

314. Veal Quenelles. — Mix 2 cups minced cooked veal 
with ]/2 teasp. salt, 1 teasp. each minced parsley and onion, 34 
teasp. paprika, and 3 beaten egg whites. Form into shape and 
cook as for Chicken Quenelles (341), and serve with Becha- 
mel sauce. 

315. Veal Timbales. — ^Follow recipe for Chicken Timbales 
(347), using veal instead of chicken and a little more seasoning. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 89 



Poultry 

316. Chicken for Entrees. — Boil it in hot water seasoned 
with onion, parsley, bay-leaf, blade mace, minced celery, little 
salt, and a small piece of sweet red pepper. Let stand in the 
stock until cold, remove fat, take out chicken and cut it in 
small pieces or slivers or mince it. Return bones and skin to 
stock and cook until well reduced. Cover the chicken with a 
marinade of French dressing with parsley and let stand an 
hour or more. If mushrooms, green pepper, or truffles are 
used, toss and saute them lightly in a little butter, as meat or 
poultry that is cooked should be reheated quickly. 

317. Chicken Bechamel in Fancy Cases. — Add to 1 

cup Bechamel Sauce (699) 2 cups chicken in small pieces, 
reheat and fill small Choux Paste cases (1510), put on tops, 
glaze with Meat Essence (66), and dust with minced parsley 
or truffles and paprika. Or fill rolls of puff paste. Roll the 
paste J^ inch thick, cut in pieces 4 by 2 inches, roll around small 
tin cornucopia shaped or cylinder moulds, wet ends, and lap 
underneath and bake. These may be garnished with a puree 
of mushrooms, chestnuts, green peas, or pimento piped on upper 
side when baked. Fill with the chicken and serve at once on 
separate plates. 

318. Chicken Chop Suey. — Cut 1 cup chicken in small 
slivers, add J^ lb. mushrooms cut in slices and J^ cup bean or 
wheat sprouts, and 1 teasp. minced onion. Add to 2 tbsps. 
butter, cooked with 2 of flour until brown, IJ^ cups stock and a 
little Chinese sauce, which may be bought at any Chinese shop, 
and the sprouts also. Serve with boiled rice. 

319. Chicken Creamed. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter and 2 of 
flour, add J^ cup of chicken stock, season well with salt, cay- 
enne or paprika, minced parsley, a dash 
nutmeg, and 1 teasp. lemon juice or 
sherry; add 1 cup thick cream and 2 
cups chicken in small pieces. Serve in 
ramekin dishes, in pates, Swedish tim- 
bale cases, bread croustades, etc. Or turn 
it into a buttered casserole; cover top 




90 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

with buttered crumbs. Half a cup Italian cock combs or fresh 
mushrooms and 2 sliced truffles boiled in sherry or stock may 
be added to mixture. 

320. Chicken Creamed a la King. — ^Marinate 2 cups 
chicken, cut in slivers, in French dressing an hour and drain. 
Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 1 small green pepper, shredded, add 
1 cup fresh mushrooms, sliced thin, and 2 sliced truffles tossed 
in butter in hot saute pan, J^ teasp. grated onion, and 2 tbsps. 
flour. When boiling add 1 cup milk, Uttle salt, paprika, dash 
nutmeg, and the chicken. When boiling again add 1 tbsp. 
chopped capers, 2 beaten yolks mixed with ^ cup thick cream 
and ^ cup creamed butter. Add a few drops lemon juice, dust 
with paprika, and serve garnished with triangles of puff paste. 

321. Chicken Creamed with Mushrooms and Truf- 
fles. — Add to the sauce in Creamed Chicken (319), 1 cup chicken, 

1 cup mushrooms, and 2 minced truffles. Add 1 tbsp. sherry and 
turn into a casserole, cover with buttered crumbs, and put in 
oven until brown. 

322. Chicken Creamed, Onondaga Style. — Cook 1 
small minced green pepper in 3 tbsps. butter, add 3 tbsps. 
minced sweet red pepper or pimento, 3 or 4 sliced mushrooms, 

2 sliced truffles, and 3 cups chicken white meat cut in thin small 
slices. Toss all together in saute pan, add 2 or 3 tbsps. Sauterne, 
turn into a double boiler, add 3 yolks mixed with 1 cup cream. 
Cook until slightly thick and serve in a piped border of Potato 
Duchesse (628), browned slightly. 

323. Chicken Creamed a la Poulette. — Follow recipe 
for Creamed Chicken, add 2 beaten yolks to the cream, and 
serve in Swedish Timbale Cases (806). 

324. Chicken Creamed in Rice Chartreuse. — Butter 
a large mould and sprinkle it with parsley and red or green pep- 
per minced, line it with warm boiled rice mixed with a little 
butter, salt and pepper, fill with creamed chicken, and bake 
in pan of water covered with buttered paper 5 minutes. Turn 
out and serve with Cream Tomato, Curry, or Cream Sauce filled 
with diced carrots and green peas. 

325. Chicken Creamed in Rice Croustades. — Add 

to partly boiled rice a little Tomato Sauce and butter, and finish 
boiling. Pack into small buttered, flat-bottomed moulds, and 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 91 

♦ 

place on ice until cold. Turn out, roll in egg and crumbs, and 
drop in hot fat until slightly colored, scoop out centres, fill with 
Creamed Chicken h. la Poulette (323), cover with a meringue 
made of the 2 egg whites seasoned with salt and pepper, and 
brown in oven. Serve at once around a mound of asparagus 
tips covered with Maitre d'H6tel Sauce (763). 

326. Chicken Croquettes. — Boil chicken as for Creamed 
Chicken (316) . Chop it rather fine and add to the following sauce. 
Cook 2 tbsps. butter with ^ teasp. grated onion and same of 
parsley, add 4 tbsps. flour, 3^ cup chicken stock, ^ cup of 
cream, and 34 teasp. salt, dash each nutmeg; and cayenne. 
Add 2 slightly beaten eggs, 1 teasp. lemon juice, and 1 tbsp. 
sherry or Madeira wine. They should be as soft as possible. 
If too soft add soft bread crumbs until the desired consistency. 
Spread out on buttered platter and cool. When very cold form 
into croquettes or cutlet shape, dust them lightly with crumbs, 
roll in beaten egg diluted with a little water, cover completely 
with crumbs, and place on ice again until very cold. Fry, a few 
at a time, in deep fat for 2 minutes, or until light brown, and dry 
on soft paper. A little minced ham or veal or boiled rice or 
minced mushrooms or green peppers may be mixed with the 
chicken to give a variety in flavoring. 

327. Chicken Croquette Apples en Surprise. — ^Fol- 
low recipe for Chicken Croquettes using half the amount. Press 
a small spoonful of the mixture in the palm of your hand, spread 
it out in a thin round, fill with creamed sweetbreads or peas and 
pinch together in balls, crumb, egg and crumb. Press balls in 
at each end for stem and blossom, fry and insert a clove in one 
end, and serve with Tomato, Cream, or Mushroom Sauce. A 
cooked mushroom, or a minced truflle soaked in Madeira, or 
minced olives and pimentoes may also be placed in the centre. 

328. Chicken Croquettes Supreme. — ^Mince 1 cup 
chicken white meat, J^ cup fresh mushrooms, and 2 artichoke 
fonds; add them separately to the sauce. Cook 2 tbsps. butter 
with 3 of arrow-root or cornstarch, add 1 cup cream, season with 
salt, cayenne, and dash of nutmeg. Spread quite thin on buttered 
tin or platter, when cold cut in squares, press each square on 
the palm of your hand wet in cold water, fill with a spoonful of 
the following mixture, pinch corners together, mould into shape, 
egg and crumb, and fry. Mix 6 tbsps. boiled rice with 4 minced 



92 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

truffles, 1 beaten egg, little salt and cayenne, and cream to soften, 
Serve with Supreme Sauce (749). 

329. Chicken and Sweet Potato Croquettes. — Mix 

2 cups mashed sweet potato with 2 beaten yolks, add salt and 
pepper, and cook until mixture leaves side of pan, and cool. 
Mince 1 cup shredded chicken with }4 cup shredded almonds, 
add salt, pepper, and dash of nutmeg, and enough cream to hold 
them together. Spread the potato mixture in flat cakes, put 
chicken mixture in centre, and fold into balls. Crumb, egg and 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with Bechamel Sauce (700). 

330. Chicken Fillets. — ^Method. — Cut chicken in oblong 
pieces, free from skin and bone and large enough to serve one 
to each person. If necessary, put two or three together in order 
to make them uniform in size. Brush them with egg white and 
tie them together until cold. These are usually made of cooked 
chicken for light entr&s, although there are a few exceptions. 

331. Chicken Fillets Deviled and Broiled.— Cut fillets 
from raw broilers, cover for an hour with J^ cup sherry mixed 
with 2 tbsps. each tarragon vinegar and Worcestershire, 1 
teasp. Frendi mustard, and 3^ teasp. each salt and paprika. 
Drain, roll in melted butter, and broil them. Heat the sherry 
mixture and pour it over the fillets. They should be rather 
small. 

332. Chicken Fillets with Mushrooms, Stuffed— Cut 

small fillets from cooked chicken and heat them in hot butter, 
lay them on toast spread with minced or deviled ham, place a 
Stuffed Mushroom (585) on each, and cover with Hollandaise 
Cream Sauce (720). 

333. Chicken Fillets with Sauce SuprSme. — Dip 

boiled fillets of chicken white meat in butter, put them in the 
oven 2 minutes, serve on dish, cover with Supreme Sauce (749), 
and dust them with 3 truffles minced fine. 

334. Chicken Livers and Artichokes. — Add to 2 cups 
cooked chicken livers cut in small pieces 2 artichoke fonds cut 
in dice and add to Bechamel Sauce (699). Serve in green 
peppers or tomatoes crumbed and browned. Sweetbreads or 
peas may be used instead of the artichokes. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 93 

335. Chicken Livers and Noodles. — Make noodles about 
y^ inch wide and boil them (see 676). Line buttered timbale 
moulds with them and fill with minced chicken livers, pate de 
foie gras, and oysters in Brown Sauce. 

336. Chicken Livers and Pate de Foie Gras. — Cook 
1 cup chicken livers in 1 tbsp. pork fat a moment, cover with J^ 
cup stock and 2 tbsps. sherry, and simmer until quite tender. 
Add 2 minced truffles, }/2 cup pate de foie gras cut in dice, 
and 1 tbsp. Madeira wine. Heat and fill small Choux Cases 
(1510) and serve as a very light entree. 

337. Chicken Mousses and Mousselines. — Mousses 
and mousselines are mixtures made very light with eggs and 
whipped cream, turned into buttered and garnished moulds, and 
poached in the oven on folds of paper in a pan of hot water and 
under buttered paper. When put in large moulds they are called 
mousses, in small or individual moulds mousselines. When to 
be served cold, a very small amount of softened gelatine is 
added to the hot mixture to make them a little more firm. 

338. Chicken Mousse with Asparagus. — Mix 1 cup 

cooked and minced chicken, pressed through a coarse sieve, with 
1 cup boiled asparagus, saving the tips, also put through the 
sieve. Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 1 of flour, add 3^ cup milk or 
chicken stock, season well with salt, pepper, paprika, a dash of 
nutmeg, and a few drops of lemon juice, add the chicken and 
asparagus, 2 yolks slightly beaten, and place in the cool. Add 
3/^ cup whipped cream, 4 egg whites beaten very stiff, and turn 
into a buttered and garnished mould, filling it but % full, and 
poach in slow oven. It will take 25 minutes for a large mould 
and 15 for small ones. Turn out on a deep shell or small shells of 
puff paste, surround with the asparagus tips, pour over 1 cup 
hot cream seasoned with salt and cayenne, and serve at once. 

339. Chicken Mousselines, BechameL — Cut raw white 
meat from a 2-lb. chicken in small pieces, press through a sieve, 
adding a little cream to soften, add 1 cup whipped cream, 3^ 
teasp. salt, and a dash of cayenne. Butter small moulds, put a 
small bit of paper in bottom, garnish sides with slices of truffle, 
stars of pimento, and diamonds or strips of boiled egg white. 
Add to the mixture 4 beaten egg whites, fill moulds % full, and 
poach in oven on paper in pan of water and covered with but- 



94 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

tered paper 15 minutes. Turn out, remove paper, and serve 
with Bechamel Sauce (699). Royal Custards (92), in different 
colors and shapes, may also be added to garnish. 

340. Chicken Liver Mousselines. — Mix ^ cup chicken 
livers pressed through a sieve with J/^ cup boiled rice, add J4 
teasp. salt, dash nutmeg and cayenne, }^ teasp. French mustard, 
and K cup whipped cream. Fill small moulds and poach in 
oven 10 minutes. Serve with Truffled Mushroom Sauce (754). 

341. Chicken Quenelles. — Mix 2 cups raw minced 
chicken with 1 tbsp. minced ham, 1 teasp. onion juice, 2 tbsps. 
butter, 2 of cream, and 2 yolks, well beaten. Add to 3^ cup 
bread crumbs beaten in 3^ cup scalded milk, and place on fire 
until boiling, fold in the stiffly beaten egg white, form into small 
ovals with 2 wet tablespoons, and saute in butter until brown. 
Cover with 2 cups stock, and simmer J^ an hour. Put que- 
nelles on hot plate, add gravy in pan to 2 tbsps. butter and 
same of flour cooked together, and pour over them. 

342. Chicken Ragout Espagnole. — Cut 2 cups cooked 
chicken in small pieces. Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 2 of flour 
until brown, add 2 cups highly seasoned and well-reduced stock, 
8 button onions just parboiled, 1 cup cooked green peas, the 
chicken livers minced, and 2 sweet red peppers cut in shreds. 
When boiling add the chicken and garnish with parsley and 
lemon. 

343. Chicken Rissoles in Noodle Paste. — Make Noodle 
Paste (676), and while fresh cut into squares, fill with 
Creamed Chicken, cover with the paste squares, pinch edges 
together, and boil in stock 20 minutes. Serve with a mild 
tomato sauce. 

344. Chicken Shortcakes. — Make and split rich baking- 
powder biscuits, spread between and on top chopped chicken, 
and pour over Hollandaise Sauce, Colbert (723). 

345. Chicken Souffles. — Souffles are very light mixtures 
served in the dishes in which they are baked. Cook 1 tbsp. 
butter with 1 of flour, add ^ cup cream, 1 cup minced chicken, 
}/2 cup soft bread crumbs, and 4 well-beaten yolks. Butter bak- 
ing dish or casserole, pin a stiff buttered strip of paper around 
edge, add salt, paprika, and 6 egg whites beaten very stiff to the 
mixture, and partly fill the dish. If but ^ full it will swell 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 95 

above the edge of the dish, and the paper will hold it. Bake 3^ 
an hour in a slow oven, remove paper, and serve at once. Minced 
mushrooms, truffles, sweetbreads, or bacon may be added to 
the chicken, reducing the amount of chicken, or a layer of small, 
fresh mushrooms tossed in butter may be laid on the souffle just 
as it is put in the oven. 

346. Chicken and Cheese Souffle. — Cook 2 tbsps. but- 
ter with 1 of flour and 1 of rice flour, add 1 cup cream mixed with 
4 beaten yolks, 1 cup minced chicken, 2 tbsps. cheese, a little 
salt and paprika, and the 4 egg whites beaten stiff. Fill small 
dishes not quite full and bake 15 minutes. Serve in the dishes. 
Or omit cheese, use a little less chicken, and add 2 tbsps. of 
shredded pimento. 

347. Chicken Timbales. — Timbales are really thimble- 
shaped cases, either large or small, of one, mixture filled with 
another mixture, but any moulds that have a lining and are 
filled with mixtures are called "timbales." These linings are 
usually a thick layer of bread crumbs, forcemeat, macaroni, 
etc. The fillings are either forcemeats or creams. Timbales 
may be colored to match decorations or the sauces which cover 
them may be colored. 

348. Chicken Timbales with Cardinal Sauce. — Line 
small moulds with rings of boiled macaroni placed close together 
and fill with the following. Mix 1 cup minced chicken, 3^ cup 
minced ham, 3^ cup soft bread crumbs, 1 teasp. parsley, , 3^ 
teasp. onion juice, 3^ teasp. paprika, 3^ cup chicken stock, and 
2 yolks mixed with 3^ cup cream. Cook a moment, remove from 
fire, cool, and add 3 egg whites beaten stiff. Fill moulds and 
poach as for mousses. Serve with Tomato Sauce Cardinal 
(751). The ham may be omitted and 3 tbsps. white wine 
added for flavor. Another way is to make half the amount of 
mixture, fill moulds half-full of thick Cream Sauce mixed with 
minced green peppers and pimentoes, and then fill with the 
mixture. 

349. Chicken Timbales with Mushrooms, Sweet- 
breads, or Peas. — Line a large mould "with chicken forcemeat 
3^ inch thick, fill with creamed sweetbreads or peas, and poach 
in oven as directed. Turn out and serve with Veloute Sauce 
(765). 



96 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

350. Chicken Terrapin. — Marinate 2 cups cooked chicken 
cut in large dice, 1 hour. Cook 3 tbsps. butter with 2 of flour, add 
3 boiled egg yolks pressed through a sieve, little salt, pepper, and 

2 cups rich milk. Cook until slightly reduced, skim, and add 1 
tbsp. butter, dash nutmeg, the egg whites cut in dice, the 
chicken, and 2 tbsps. Madeira wine. Serve in a casserole or in 
individual ramekins. 

351. Chicken Vol au Vent.— Mix l}^ cups cooked chicken 
dice with 1 cup cooked green peas. Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 

3 of flour, add 1 cup chicken stock, J^ cup strained tomatoes, 3^ 
teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. sweet red peppers diced, )^ teasp. onion 
juice, and 1 teasp. lemon juice. Cook 5 minutes and serve in 
a hot Vol au Vent (1220). 

352. Turkey Entrees.— Turkey that is left from the roast 
or boil may be cooked after any of the recipes for chicken, al- 
though the following recipes, one of which is a specialty of a 
famous New York restaurant, are especially recommended. 

353. Turkey with Chestnuts and Puff Paste Bis- 
cuits. — Marinate 1 cup of cold turkey cut in small pieces in a 
very little French dressing. Add to the left-over gravy, which 
should contain the minced giblets, enough stock in which 2 tbsps. 
dried mushrooms have soaked to make 1^ cups of sauce. 
Strain sauce and add the turkey and 1 cup boiled and sliced 
chestnuts which have been buttered, dusted with salt and pep- 
per, and slightly browned in the oven. When hot add J^ cup 
finely minced celery, cook 10 minutes, and add }/2 cup cream. 
Serve between small biscuits of puff paste. These are split like 
shortcakes. 

354. Turkey Tetrazzini, Knickerbocker. — Cut cold 
turkey breasts in small slivers, add to a rich Cream Sauce with 
a few slices of mushrooms. Put a layer of this in a buttered 
dish, then a layer of boiled spaghetti, dust with grated cheese, 
and continue, having the last layer of turkey. Cover with but- 
tered bread crumbs, add a delicate dusting of Parmesan, and 
place in oven until brown. Serve in the dish. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 97 

SUBSTANTIAL ENTREES 

Substantial entrees are much in favor for the main course 
at informal dinners, and even at formal dinners the roast or 
joint is not always in evidence, especially if game be served. 
Fillets, chops, steaks, casseroles, etc., while always suitable 
to serve as entrees at large dinners, often take the place of 
the "remove" or "piece de resistance" at any dinner. The 
following entrees are all suitable to be served as the "piece 
de resistance" at luncheons, although the light entree, es- 
pecially if it be of chicken, beef, lamb, sweetbreads, or game, 
is quite sufficient for the dainty luncheon of but few courses 
so popular to-day. 

Meat Entrees 

355. Beef en Casserole, Algerian Style or Chilli con 
Carni. — Cut 2 lbs. of beef from the round in inch cubes, 
sear quickly in very little butter or salad oil, and put them in a 
buttered casserole in alternate layers with fresh diced tomatoes 
and minced green peppers, dot each layer with butter, add J^ 
cup stock, cover, and bake 2 or 3 hours, or until meat is tender. 
Serve in casserole. If plenty of sweet red peppers and a little 
onion be added, it is chilli con carni. 

356. Beef Rolls, Stuffed.— Cut 1)4 lbs. thin, round 
steak in narrow strips, 4 by 2 inches, and spread with the follow- 
ing mixture. Mix j^ cup soft bread crumbs with J^ cup minced 
mushroom stems or 1 tbsp. sweet red pepper or green pepper, 
add }/2 teasp. salt, dash cayenne, little pepper, and onion salt, 
and cook in 2 tbsps. butter or bacon fat. Roll and fasten with 
wooden skewers, marinate in French dressing 12 hours. Cook 
1 tbsp. butter withl of flour, add 2 cups well-seasoned stock, add 
rolls, cover, and simmer until meat is tender and stock well re- 
duced, about 2 hours. Take up meat and place it in centre of 
a ring of mashed potato brushed with butter and browned in 
the oven, add 1 tbsp. tomato pulp to sauce, cook a moment, and 
strain over meat. 



98 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

357. Beef Ragout, Hungarian Goulash. — Meat from 
neck or chuck ribs will do for this. Cut in inch squares and 
marinate in French dressing with parsley and onion 12 hours. 
Cook 2 tbsps. drippings with 1 small minced onion and 2 tbsps. 
minced sweet red pepper until slightly brown, add 1 cup diced 
potato, the meat, a good grinding of black pepper, J^ teasp. 
savory herbs, and 1 teasp. Hungarian paprika. Steam in double 
boiler an hour or more, add 1 teasp. minced parsley, 2 tbsps. 
minced tomatoes, 1 tbsp. slightly browned flour softened in J/^ 
cup stock, cook until sauce is well reduced, add }/2 teasp. salt 
and 3^ cup cream. Serve dusted well with paprika. This 
dish is almost too hot for American palates. 

358. Beef Fillets. — Fillets are thick slices of tenderloin 
or sirloin cut into individual portions. They should be an inch 
or more thick and may be cut into any shape with a knife wet 
in cold water. When tenderloin fillets are shaped in medium- 
sized rounds they are called fillets mignon, and if cut quite small 
and accompanied by vegetables, etc., they are called tournedos. 
These may be tied with a thread to keep in shape and place them 
in a marinade of French dressing, to which add bit of bay-leaf 
and parsley, for several hours. 

359. Beef Fillets Mignon or Tournedos. — Broil or 
panbroil them and serve with any of the following accessories. 
Cover each fillet with spoonful of Bearnaise or horseradish sauce 
and serve garnished with bananas sauted or baked. Surround 
them with mushroom sauce and place a banana fritter on top of 
each. Cover each with a slice of tomato cooked in butter and 
sprinkle with minced green pepper, also sauted in butter. Broil 
and serve them on large artichoke fonds and cover with Hol- 
landaise or Soubise sauce. Broil them and cover with large, 
stuffed mushrooms, and surround with Cream Mushroom Sauce 
(733). Saut^ them and cover with Maitre d'Hotel sauce, and 
surround with Egg-plant Straws (555). Surmount each, either 
broiled or panbroiled, with a small sweet potato croquette, sur- 
round with puff-paste triangles and pour over Madeira sauce. 
Broil them and spread with pate de foie gras, and garnish 
with minced trufiles and minced sweet red pepper. Serve with 
rich Brown Sauce. Or glaze them, after they are broiled, with 
meat essence, add the foie gras, and serve with Marsala Sauce 
(728). 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 99 

360. Fillets Mignon Deviled.— Broil or saut^ the fillets 
4 minutes, roll them in 1 tbsp. of English mustard mixed with 
2 tbsps. Worcestershire, J^ teasp. salt and paprika, and then in 
bread crumbs, and sauti in butter until crumbs are brown, also 
saute tomato slices dipped in egg and crumbs, and arrange alter- 
nately on platter with the fillets, and pour over Espagnole 
Sauce (716). 

361. Fillets Mignon, Stuffed.— Split the fillets from the 
side, not quite through, and spread between a mince of mush- 
rooms and truffles sauted in butter, to which add salt and pa- 
prika, dot with butter, and bake in a paper bag 12 minutes. 
Serve with mushroom sauce, to which add 2 tbsps. sherry. 

362. Beefsteak. — ^There is no better meat than beefsteak 
properly cooked. The best steaks are the first cuts of sirloin, 
with a bit of tenderloin on one side of the bone; these are called 
in and near New York State, porter-house — if without the 
tenderloin they are called club or Delmonico steaks; in other 
sections of the country and in England they are called sirloin. 
In many places a very thick steak cut from the largest part of 
the tenderloin is called Chateaubriand, but the real Chateau- 
briand is an entirely different matter. Broiled steak may be 
served with Bearnaise or Horseradish sauce, or after spreading 
with butter add a little port wine. 

363. Beefsteak Chateaubriand. — Have 2 slices of ten- 
derloin cut 2 inches thick, and put them between 2 slices of 
round or rump steak cut very thin; broil quickly until the out- 
side steak is quite brown. Remove them and broil the inside 
steaks quickly. Tenderloin, although very tender, lacks juice; 
the round steak helps to retain the juice until steak is partly 
cooked. These steaks should be rare and juicy and quite brown 
on the outside. Place them close together on a platter, spread 
them with plenty of butter, and dust with salt and pepper on 
both sides, and turn the steak until the butter on both sides is 
nearly melted. Steak should never be put in the oven after it 
is broiled. The heat of the meat will melt butter sufficiently. 
The butter may be omitted and the steak spread with Mattre 
d'Hotel or Bearnaise Sauce. 

364. Beefsteak Chateaubriand. — Ordinary Method. 
— Have 2 large tenderloins cut 2 inches thick, form them into 



100 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

rounds, — these are always served in pairs, — broil quickly, with 
the hottest fire at first, then reduce heat and finish broiling. 
They should be turned frequently at first, and it will take about 
12 minutes to broil a steak of this thickness. Spread with butter 
as above. To Stuff Them. — Cut the steaks nearly through 
from the side and spread with marrow from bones mixed with 
minced and seasoned mushrooms, and broil. Serve with Trufl3ed 
Mushroom Sauce (754), using the stems for the stuffing. 

365. Beefsteak en Casserole. — Marinate a sirloin or 
round steak, 13^ inches thick, over night, cut it in individual 
portions, free from fat and gristle, and sear them quickly on both 
sides in a hot spider with a very little butter, place in buttered 
casserole, add enough beef fat to spider to make 2 tbsps. when 
melted, add 1 sliced onion, 1 sliced carrot, and a few sprigs of 
parsley, cook a moment, and add 1 tbsp. flour and cook until 
brown. Add IJ^ cups of stock and when boiling pour over the 
beef, cover casserole, and put in oven for 30 minutes. Now add 

1 cup potato balls sauted in a little fat or butter and 1 cup mush- 
rooms, if at hand. Season gravy with salt, pepper, and paprika, 
add 1 tbsp. sherry, and cook 10 or 15 minutes uncovered. Dust 
with parsley and pimentoes minced fine and send to table in 
casserole. 

366. Beefsteak Fillets, Farci. — Have sirloin fillets cut 
IJ-^ inches thick, split them nearly through from the side, and 
fill them with soft bread crumbs mixed with minced olives, chives, 
and red or green pepper, well seasoned, or with minced mush- 
rooms and truffles seasoned with salt, pepper, and a dash of nut- 
meg. Fasten with wooden skewers, cover with French dressing, 
and place on ice for several hours. Broil and serve with a spoon- 
ful of Cream Horseradish Sauce (762) on each. 

367. Beefsteak, Vienna Style. — Mince round or sirloin 
steak, add to 2 cups of the meat little salt, pepper, paprika, 
parsley, and minced shallots, and J^ cup soft bread crumbs and 

2 tbsps. minced ham or bacon. Mix well and add 2 eggs and 
form into individual steaks. Roll them in flour, egg and crumb 
them, and fry in deep fat. Serve around a mound of potato 
pur^e and pour over Spanish or Mushroom or Tomato sauce. 
This is the one exception to the rule that fried beefsteak is im- 
possible. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 101 

368. Beefsteak Planked.— Broil a l^-inch-thick steak 
quickly and but 6 minutes. Place it in centre of an oval hard- 
wood plank, pipe around edge a border of mashed potato, brush 
it with beaten egg yolk mixed with a little milk, put cooked peas, 
string beans, and button onions at intervals inside the potato 
border, and put the plank in a very hot oven, or under the gas 
until potatoes are brown, about 6 or 8 minutes. Dust steak with 
salt and pepper, dot with butter, arrange stuffed mushrooms or 
■tomatoes, already cooked, down the centre, or place Swedish 
Timbale Cases (806) filled with creamed carrots and peas on the 
steak and send to table on the plank. The plank may be placed 
on a large silver tray or platter. 

369. Beefsteak with Port Wine Sauce. — Marinate the 
steak, broil it and spread with butter, dust with pepper and salt, 
and pour over it J^ cup of hot port wine and serve at once. 

370. Beefsteak Smothered in Onions. — ^This sounds 
like a most plebeian dish, but it is one that is much favored by 
men epicures. Slice 2 Spanish onions and put them in ice-water 
to which add 1 tbsp. each salt and sugar, and let them stand 2 
hours. Drain, dry, and separate them into rings and saut^ them 
in hot spider in a very little salt-pork fat, covered, until tender, 
remove cover, add salt and pepper, and cook until they are light 
brown. Place in hot dish in oven and panbroil the steak in the 
very hot spider. Place on platter and cover with the onions, 
and place in oven 1 minute to insure its being very hot. 

371. Calf's Head with Parsley Sauce. — Have butcher 
bone J^ a calf's head, scald it, and cover with cold water and 
parboil it 5 minutes. Cool, roll it in cheese-cloth, and simmer 
it in water with carrots, onions, turnips, celery, bay leaf, thyme, 
parsley, peppercorns, cloves, and a blade of mace, 3 hours. Re- 
move cloth, place meat on platter, surround with triangles of 
bread browned in butter, and pour the sauce over meat. Sauce: 
cover 3^ cup minced parsley with cold water and let it come to 
a boil, drain and pound it with 3 tbsps. of butter, add to Cream 
Sauce, color green with a little paste dissolved in 1 tbsp. tarragon 
vinegar, add a pinch of mace, and serve very hot. 

372. Calf's Head, a la Vinaigrette. — Clean and scald 
^2 ^ calf's head and tongue, cover with cold water, and boil J^ 
an hour, plunge into cold water, drain, remove meat, and cut it 



102 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

in small pieces. Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 2 of flour, add 1 qt. 
hot water, 4 cloves, 3 peppercorns, a small onion and a carrot, 2 
bay leaves, J^ teasp. savory herbs, 3 tbsps. vinegar, and the meat, 
and simmer 2 hours. Take out meat and pour over it Vinai- 
grette Sauce (773), and garnish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs 
and beet dice. 

373. Calf's Liver en Casserole. — Cut 1 lb. calf's liver 
in small fillets and lard them with bacon, and marinate in French 
dressing an hour. Cook in bacon fat 1 minced onion, 2 diced 
carrots, and 1 tbsp. minced parsley. Turn into casserole, add 
meat, 1 cup tomato pulp, 1 cup stock, cover, and cook an hour 
in oven. Add 1 cup mushroom slices, little salt, pepper, and 
paprika, cook 15 minutes or until meat is tender, thicken sauce 
with 1 tbsp. flour rolled with same of butter, add if liked 1 or 2 
tbsps. Madeira wine, and serve in casserole. 

374. Calves' Tongues. — Boil and skin the tongues, lard 
and roast them on a rack in a pan until done, basting often with 
stock and butter. Just before they are done cover them with, 
buttered crumbs and cook until brown. Take up, cut in slices, 
and lay them on a platter, overlapping each other. Thicken 
gravy in pan, add 2 tbsps. sherry, and strain over the tongue* 
and surround with mashed potato riced. 

375. Lamb Chops.— Lamb chops should be cut 1 inch 
thick, trimmed, and bone scraped. These are then called 
French chops. Cover with marinade of a few drops of oil and 
vinegar, and pepper and salt, and let them stand several hours. 

376. Lamb Chops with Champagne Sauce. — Broil 
chops 5 minutes, dip them in 2 tbsps. melted butter seasoned with 
salt, paprika, and cayenne, cover them with the following mixture. 
Soak 1 cup soft bread crumbs in ^4 cup hot milk with 1 tbsp. 
minced tongue or ham, 1 tbsp. minced parsley, salt, and paprika, 
and 1 egg. Mix and cool, cover the chops, and when- very cold 
crumb, egg and crumb them, and fry in deep fat. Serve around 
a puree of green peas and pour Champagne Sauce (704) over 
them. 

377. Lamb Chops with Chestnuts. — Simmer 1 pt. 
shelled and blanched chestnuts cut in small pieces in well- 
seasoned stock or broth made from trimmings of the chops. 
When tender place them on hot broiled chops, thicken the sauci» 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 103 

with a roux of butter and flour, and pour over the chops. A 
little Madeira may be added. 

378. Lamb Chops en Casserole. — Sear the chops quickly 
in hot butter, put them in the buttered casserole, and keep hot 
while cooking 2 tbsps. butter in pan with 1 tbsp. minced onion, 
2 of green pepper, 1 cup sliced mushrooms, 1 cup stock, J^ cup 
stewed tomatoes, J<^ cup minced celery, salt, pepper, and 1 teasp. 
of curry dissolved in a little stock. Add 1 cup of potato balls, 
cover and cook 10 minutes,, turn into the casserole, cover and 
cook 15 minutes. Thicken sauce with 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of 
flour rubbed together, cook a few moments, and serve. 

379. Lamb Chops au Julienne. — Broil, or fry chops in 
deep fat, and serve with Brown Sauce, to which J^ cup tomatoes 
have been added, and all vegetables in season cut in match-like 
threads and boiled in stock. 

380. Lamb Chops Masked. — Saute chops in a very hot 
pan on one side only, cool and cover with the following, and cool 
again. Parboil 3^ of a small onion cut in slices, drain, and 
saute in 1 tbsp. butter until it colors slightly, add 1 cup strong 
stock, a blade mace, and cook until soft enough to press through 
a sieve. Cook 3 tbsps. butter with J^ cup flour, add salt, pepper, 
and the onion, J^ cup cream, and soft bread crumbs to thicken. 
Spread this thick on the cooked side of chops, then cover with 
bread crumbs rolled in melted butter, place on a buttered pan, 
garnish with a mushroom, minced truffles, and sweet red pepper, 
and place in hot oven 10 minutes. Or cover with a mixture of 
minced tongue, truffles, soft bread crumbs, and enough sherry 
to moisten. Garnish and finish as above. Another masking 
mixture is 3^ cup minced chicken mixed with bread crumbs and 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and dash of nutmeg. Serve the chops 
with either a Mushroom or Veloute Wine Sauce (756). ' 

381. Lamb Chops Piquant.— Dip chops in port wine, dust 
with salt and pepper, add a few drops of oil, and let therd stand 
in the cool several hours. Broil and serve with Port Wine Sauce 
(741), using the wine used in the marinade. 

382. Lamb Chops with Soubise Sauce.— Flatten 6 large 
French chops, dip in 2 tbsps. melted butter mixed with }/2 cup 
bread crumbs, salt and pepper, broil them, and serve with Sou- 
bise Sauce (736). 



104 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

383. Lamb Chops Supreme. — Slit thick French chops 
from the side to the bone, spread with minced mushrooms and 
truffles seasoned with salt, paprika, and dash nutmeg, fasten with 
skewers, egg and crumb, and saute in hot butter 5 minutes on 
each side. Spread pieces of toast with pate de foie gras, lay the 
chops upon them, and pour over a Madeira sauce. 

384. Lamb Chops Stuffed and Cooked in Paper Bag. 

— Have chops boned and rolled, removing fat, unroll them, and 
spread with the minced stems of ]^ lb. mushrooms mixed with 
soft bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and dash nutmeg. Roll and 
tie with a string and marinate them in French dressing over 
night. Drain and cover with buttered crumbs, dot with butter, 
and place in buttered paper bag. Cover the mushroom caps 
with bits of butter, dust with salt and pepper, and place them 
in another paper bag. Bake them both 15 minutes, lay chops 
on platter, add mushrooms, take juice from both bags, add 2 
tbsps. Madeira wine, strain, and pour over chops and serve them 
around a mound of Sweet Potato Puree (660) . A little cream 
may be poured over the mushrooms when putting them in the 
bag, if a creamy sauce is desired. 

385. Lamb Chops with White Wine Sauce. — Marinate 
chops and when ready to broil them sprinkle with a few drops of 
sherry and serve with the following. Saute 1 small onion with 
1 tbsp. butter until soft, add J^ cup white wine and 2 egg yolks 
mixed with 3^ cup cream. 

386. Lamb en Casserole. — Cut 2 lbs. of lamb from the 
shoulder in large cubes, sear them quickly in buttered saute 
pan, dip each piece in melted butter or good dripping, dust with 
salt and pepper, and put in a buttered casserole. Put casserole 
in oven, uncovered, 15 minutes, add 1 cup potato balls or cubes, 
]/^ cup cooked carrot dice or sticks, 2 slices onion, 1 tomato, 
chopped, and stock or water to cover. Cover and cook until 
meat is tender, about 2 hours. Add 1 tbsp. flour dissolved in 
1 cup stock or broth from lamb trimmings, cook 10 minutes, add 
1 tbsp. butter, dust with paprika and minced parsley, and serve 
in the dish. 

387. Lamb and Ham Fillets.— Parboil inch-thick fillets 
of lamb steak, marinade them an hour or more, roil in egg and in 
finely minced boiled ham, then in crumbs. Dot with butter and 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 105 

broil under gas or bake in a paper bag. Serve with Brown Sauce, 
to which add a little lemon juice and l^ cup currant jelly. 

388. Lamb Steak Stuffed and Rolled. — Spread thin 
slices of lamb from the leg with minced chicken and tongue 
mixed with minced olives, green pepper, parsley, capers, salt, 
pepper, and a little butter, or spread with sausage meat. Roll 
like jelly cake, fasten with skewers, and broil, turning often until 
done and brown. Or it may be cooked in a casserole on a layer 
of vegetables and with a little stock. Serve with Brown Sauce, 
to which add a little tomato or chilli sauce. 

389. Mutton Chops, English.— The English mutton chop 
IS large and should be cut rather thick and always marinated 
several hours in French dressing. One chop is almost too much 
for each person unless this course is the main course. Trim 
each chop, season with salt and pepper, brush both sides with 
melted butter, place 1 slice of tomato on each, surmount with a 
fresh mushroom, pour 1 tbsp. of Meat Essence (66) over each, 
place in buttered pan or in paper bag well buttered, and bake 
20 minutes. Serve with a teaspoon of Maltre d'Hdtel Sauce 
(763) in centre of each mushroom. 

390. Pork Tenderloin, Baked. — Split 2 pork tenderloins, 
spread with poultry stuffing, put together and fasten with 
wooden toothpicks or string, dust with salt and pepper, lay 
them in a rack in pan, and bake an hour or more, according to 
the thickness of the tenderloins, basting often with butter and 
hot water. Serve on platter, pour over the meat a little melted 
butter mixed with lemon juice, and dust with sage. Add 1 tbsp,, 
tomato catsup to gravy in pan, thicken it slightly, and poui; 
around the meat. Serve with cooked apples. 

391. Veal en Casserole. — Cut 1)4; lbs. of veal from th© 
leg in inch squares, draw a piece of larding pork through each 
one. Saut^ a tiny piece of very fat ham in hot spider, sear the 
veal in this about 5 minutes, turning often. Put veal in but- 
tered casserole, add 1 small onion, 2 cloves, tiny bit of bay leaf, 
piece of lemon peel, a pinch of savory herbs, and 2 peppercorns. 
Add stock to cover veal, cover casserole, and put in oven an hour. 
Saute 1 minced green pepper in 1 tbsp. butter, add 1 small 
tomato, diced, or 2 tbsps. canned tomato, 3^ teasp. salt, and J^ 
lb. fresh mushrooms, or canned, cut in slices. Return to oven 



106 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

and cook until meat is tender, add J^ cup white wine or 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice, and thicken gravy with 1 tbsp. cornstarch dissolved 
in cold water, and cook 5 minutes. 

392. Veal CoUops (Wiener Schnitzel).— Cut 3^-inch 
slices of veal from leg into individual portions, beat them until 
flat and somewhat cut, dust with salt, pepper, and flour, egg and 
crumb them. Smooth them with a wet knife and saute them 
5 minutes on each side in 1 tbsp. each of bacon fat and butter. 
Lay them on platter, and garnish with rolled bits of anchovy 
which have been soaked in cold water an hour or more, capers, 
and half-slices of lemon covered with minced parsley. Add a 
very little water to pan, cook a moment, and strain around the 
collops. This gravy is called essence and requires no thickening, 
as there is but little of it, and it should be quite thin and brown. 

393. Veal Cutlets Breaded and Sauted.— Cut veal 
slices ^ inch thick in cutlets, pound until tender, and shape 
them in buttered mufiin rings. Cook in 3 tbsps. of brown fat, 
1 tbsp. each finely minced parsley, onion, carrot, and celery until 
brown, lay in the cutlets, in the rings, and cook on both sides,- 
turning with griddle-cake turner, reduce heat, just cover with hot 
stock or water, cover and steam 10 minutes, place cutlets on hot 
dish, strain gravy into a bowl. Remove rings, roll cutlets in 
fine crumbs, and cook in the pan in 1 tbsp. butter until brown on 
both sides. Place on hot platter, add 1 tbsp. flour to pan and 
gravy, and cook until boiling, add 3^ cup cream, and strain over 
the cutlets and garnish with lemon and parsley. A half -cup of 
sliced and cooked mushrooms may be added if at hand. 

394. Veal Cutlets and Mushrooms in Batter. — Cut 

a thin slice of pounded veal in small rounds, dust with salt and 
pepper, dip in batter, and fry slowly in deep fat. Also dip 
large mushrooms in the batter and fry them. Arrange them 
on platter and pour around them Madeira Sauce (727). 

395. Veal and Oyster Pie.— Cut 3^ lb. veal in small 
pieces, roll in flour, and saute them in butter or bacon fat until 
slightly brown, cover with boiUng water, and simmer slowly 1}/^ 
hours. Put veal in well-buttered baking dish, add }4 cup diced 
ham to broth, salt, pepper, dash cayenne, small blade of mace, 
and 1 tbsp. cornstarch softened in a little cold broth, cook 10 
minutes, and pour over the meat. Add 1 cup oysters and 1 tbsp. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 107 

butter, cover with baking-powder biscuit or puff paste crust, 
about )/^ inch thick, and bake 20 minutes. An inverted custard 
cup put in centre will hold up crust and also draw up the sauce. 
Extra sauce may be passed in a boat as the dish should not have 
enough to reach the crust. Crust should rest on meat and cup. 

396. Veal Pot Pie. — Cook a large slice of salt pork cut in 
dice 3 minutes, add to kettle 1 small sliced onion, and cook until 
it is slightly brown, add 2 lbs. veal from the shoulder cut in 
pieces and sear it quickly in the fat, add 1 qt. warm water and a 
tiny piece of red pepper or a peppercorn, cover, and simmer 1 
hour or more. Add 2 cups potato dice and 1 teasp. salt, and 
cook until potatoes are nearly done. Add 2 tbsps. flour softened 
in J^ cup water or cream. Place Dumplings (795) on top of 
meat or in a steamer in top of kettle, cover closely, and steam 
them 12 minutes. 

397. Veal Ragout au Parmesan. — Cut IJ^ lbs. of veal 
from leg in small pieces, roll in flour, and saute them in 1 tbsp. 
butter, slightly, turn them into casserole, cover with 1 qt. hot 
water, add 1 teasp. salt, 3^ teasp. paprika, cover, and cook slowly 
in oven 2 hours. Add 1 cup tomatoes, cook 3^ an hour, add a 
layer of freshly boiled spaghetti, dust with Parmesan cheese, and 
serve in casserole. 

398. Veal Roll, Glazed. — Cut thin, long strips from 
slices of veal leg and pound them well. Spread them with 
minced ham or bacon mixed with soft bread crumbs soaked in 
stock or milk, sprinkle with finely minced parsley and green 
pepper, roll, and fasten with wooden toothpicks and saute until 
brown in butter. Pour the essence from pan over them and 
place in the cool. Put them in buttered pan, cover them with 
1 cup of Meat Essence (66), cover, and bake 3^ an hour, basting 
often. Place on hot dish, add 1 tbsp. cornstarch dissolved in 
a little cold water to pan, and, if at hand, a few diced mush- 
rooms, sweetbreads, or oysters tossed in butter, and pour over 
the meat. 

Poultry Entrees 

Poultry in this section includes uncooked fillets or indi- 
vidual portions. Both young chickens and yearlings may 
be used, but for all dishes excepting for the casserole or to 



108 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

fricassee the yearlings should be steamed or parboiled before 
following the recipe. Poultry cooked whole will be found 
in "Pieces de Resistance." 

399. Chicken Baked or Broiled. — Cut 3 young broilers 
in quarters, marinate them an hour or more in French dressing, 
dust them with salt and pepper, roll in egg diluted with milk, 
then in soft bread crumbs, place on rack in pan, flesh side up, 
dot well with butter, and bake in quick oven until brown, or slip 
them in a paper bag and bake 20 minutes or longer according to 
age of chicken. Add strained pan liquor to 1 cup of Bechamel 
Sauce (700). Or broil the chicken and pour over them 3 
tbsps. softened butter mixed with 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 2 of 
Madeira wine, and 2 of minced cooked ham, or spread breasts 
and legs with J^ cup butter mixed with 3^ cup currant jelly. 
Serve with new potatoes, hominy, fried or in croquettes, and 
green peas, and Egg Tomato Sweets, or any fruit jelly. 

400. Chicken Fillets. — Method. — These are cut from 
the uncooked chicken in individual portions, free from bones 
and skin, and are served covered with sauce made from broth 
of the bones, skin, well-cleaned feet, giblets, and liver, with onion, 
parsley, carrot, minced celery, bit of bay leaf, and 1 or 2 cloves. 
It improves flavor and makes them tender to marinate them in 
French dressing a few hours before cooking. 

401. Chicken Fillets, Baked with Cream Sauce.— 

Spread fillets with butter, dust with salt, paprika, and a gratiijs; 
of nutmeg, put them in a buttered pan or in a paper bag, and 
cook from 20 to 45 minutes, according to age. Place on hot 
dish, add 2 tbsps. flour to the fat, cook, and add ^ cup stock, 1 
teasp. of Brand sauce or Worcestershire, 1 tbsp. minced parsley, 

1 of green pepper, and J^ cup cream. Or egg and crumb the 
fillets, dot with butter, bake, and serve with Bechamel Sauce 
(700). Serve boiled rice or croquettes, corn fritters or baked to- 
matoes, and sweet pickled fruit. If Bechamel Sauce be used add 

2 tbsps. sherry when serving. 

402. Chicken Fillets en Casserole, au Jardiniere. 

— Dust fillets with salt, pepper, and flour, and lay them in a well- 
buttered saute pan and cook until slightly colored. Boil 20 
minutes 3 cups of stock, 1 small onion or shallot sliced, a tiny 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 109 

bit of bay leaf, a little thyme and minced parsley, 6 whole pep- 
pers. Put chicken in casserole, strain over the broth, add diced 
carrots, turnips, artichoke fonds, potato balls, button onions, 
button mushrooms, and 2 tbsps. diced bacon, cover dish, and 
bake 45 minutes. Add 1 beef-extract tablet and J^ cup sherry, 
and serve at once. 

403. Chicken Fillets en Casserole with Mushrooms 
and Peas. — Spread young fillets with butter, dust with salt and 
pepper, place in casserole, cover with broth, and bake until 
chicken is tender, about 30 minutes. Add 1 cup fresh mush- 
rooms cut in pieces, 1 cup cooked peas, and cook 10 minutes. 
Add 1 cup cream mixed with 1 tbsp. flour and cook 3 minutes, 
and serve. 

404. Chicken Fillets en Casserole with Okra and 
Tomatoes. — Cook as above 10 minutes, add 1 cup sliced okra 
and 1 cup diced fresh' tomatoes, season well and finish cooking, 
and just before serving add 1 cup freshly boiled rice. A little 
cream or butter may be added the last moment if chicken is not 
very fat. 

405. Chicken Fillets Curried. — Saute a sliced apple and 
a small onion in 2 tbsps. butter, add salt, pepper, and 1 teasp. 
curry powder dissolved in a little stock, cover with stock, and 
simmer until tender, using as little stock as possible. When 
nearly tender add J^ cup fresh-grated cocoanut, ]/^ teasp. of 
good table sauce (try Escofiier's chutney), and serve in a rice 
border. 

406. Chicken Fillets Deviled and Broiled. — Cover 
fillets with }/2 cup sherry mixed with J^ teasp. each mustard, 
salt, and paprika, and 1 tbsp. Worcestershire 1 hour or more. 
Drain and brush with melted butter and broil. Lay them on 
toast, add 2 tbsps. butter to sherry mixture, heat, and pour over 
chicken. 

407. Chicken Fillets Fried with Cream Sauce. — 

Cut young chickens in small pieces, cover with salted ice-water 
for 5 minutes, wipe dry, and place on ice. In an hour dry them 
and roll in white cornmeal mixed with a little flour and seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and drop into hot oil or lard, and cook until 
golden brown; drain on paper, and serve covered with a rich 



110 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Cream Sauce made with a tiny blade of mace and 1 teasp. minced 
parsley. For older chickens, parboil them until nearly tender; 
when very cold, egg and crumb, and fry as above. 

408. Chicken Fillets Masked and Baked.— Put fillets 
of white meat in a well-buttered pan, set pan in one of hot water, 
cover with buttered paper, and bake 10 minutes. Take from 
pan and press between 2 plates until cold. Mask them with 
the following mixture and return to oven under buttered paper, 
and cook 20 minutes. Mince and pound the dark meat and 
press through sieve, add 3^ cup Cream Sauce and 2 well-beaten 
egg whites, cover with soft bread crumbs rolled in butter. Serve 
the fillets around a puree of chestnuts, green peas, or potato, and 
pour over a sauce made from the broth, thickened with corn- 
starch or arrowroot, and seasoned with 1 tbsp. of sherry and 1 
teasp. tarragon vinegar. 

409. Chicken Fillets Sauted with Cream Almond 
Sauce. — Saute fillets of white meat in butter, remove to hot 
platter, add 2 tbsps. flour to pan, then 34 cup strained broth 
and 1 cup cream cooked slightly with 1 cup finely minced and 
pounded almonds. 

410. Chicken Fillets Sauted, on Toast. — Cut white 
meat in fillets; cook dark meat with the giblets, mince and pound, 
add a little butter, salt, pepper, and dash nutmeg, and spread 
on toast. SautI fillets in salt-pork fat and butter, lay them on 
the toast, and cover with the broth well reduced, to which add 
1 cup finely minced fresh mushrooms. 

411. Chicken Fillets Supreme. — Cut white meat, with 
knife wet in cold water, in 3 thin slices from each breast, fiatten 
them with a cleaver wet in cold water. Insert thin slices of 
truflBe in the fillets, dip in cream seasoned with pepper and salt 
and dash nutmeg, roll in flour and saute in butter or oil until 
light brown, place on similar-shaped, very thin slices of boiled 
ham, around a bed of asparagus tips or plain boiled asparagus, 
and pour over Madeira or Trufiled Mushroom Sauce (754). 
These may also be egged and crumbed, and fried in deep fat. 
Cool them after crumbing before frying. 

412. Chicken Fricassee White or Brown. — Singe and 
wipe chicken with cloth after washing it well inside and out, 
disjoint, put in kettle on a rack, rough pieces at bottom, and 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 111 

white meat pieces on top, with flesh side down, cover with 3 or 
4 cups boiUng water, add a small piece of salt pork and red pep- 
per, 1 tea,sp. salt, cover, and simmer 2 or 3 hours. Cook 1 tbsp. 
butter with 3 of flour, add the hot gravy, and strain over the 
chicken. Or use but 2 tbsps. flour and add just before serving 

1 cup cream mixed with 1 beaten yolk. Also add 1 cup sliced 
mushrooms tossed in butter. For a brown fricassee prepare 
as above, cook in 2 tbsps. butter in saute pan until a hght brown, 
put in kettle, add 3 tbsps. flour to pan, cook a moment, add 
the broth, 1 teasp. salt, 1 teasp. grated onion, 1 tbsp. minced 
celery, piece red pepper and 1 of salt pork cut in dice, and 2 
cloves. Cover and simmer as above, and serve with gravy 
strained over chicken. 

475. Chicken Fricassee Espagnole. — ^Prepare chicken 
as above and cook it in 2 tbsps. butter in saute pan until a delicate 
brown on both sides, place chicken on a rack in kettle, add 3 
tbsps. flour to fat in pan, cook a moment, add 3 or 4 cups broth 
(3 if cooked in fireless cooker), 1 teasp. salt, and simmer until 
nearly tender. Add 1 small sliced onion, 2 minced green pep- 
pers, 3^ a red pepper, minced, and 3 large tomatoes cooked in 

2 tbsps. butter, and cook until quite done. ^ Serve around a bed 
of rice covered with the cooked vegetables and pour over gravy. 

414. Chicken Sauted with Asparagus Tips. — Sear 
chicken pieces in butter in hot spider a moment, cover with 2 
cups hot stock, cover, and simmer 3^ an hour. If chicken is 
very tender this parboiling may be omitted. Roll in flour 
mixed with a very little fine cornmeal seasoned with salt and 
pepper and a dash nutmeg, and saute in salt-pork fat and butter 
until brown. Place on hot dish, add 2 tbsps. flour to pan, cook 
a moment, add 1 cup of the broth well reduced and J^ cup cream 
mixed with 1 yolk, add salt, paprika, a pinch of ground mace, 
and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Strain over chicken and 
add 1 cup freshly boiled asparagus tips and serve. 

415. Chicken Sauted with Ham and Pimento Balls. 

— Saute chicken pieces in butter and salt-pork fat, arrange on 
a dish. Mix 1 cup cooked minced ham with J^ cup soft bread 
crumbs and 3^ cup pimento pressed through sieve, 2 beaten 
yolks, pepper, little onion juice and minced parsley, and moisten 
with melted butter. Shape into tiny balls, egg, crumb, and fry 
in hot fat. Arrange around chicken. Add to saute pan 1 cup 



112 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

stock and J^ cup white wine, and cook 5 minutes ; pour this over 
3 well-beaten yolks, cook a moment, and strain over ham balls. 

416. Chicken Sauted or Fried a la Maryland.— Roll 

chicken pieces (parboiled if not very young), in beaten egg, 
mixed with salt and pepper, and 1 tbsp. cream, then dust lightly 
with white cornmeal, and cook in spider in butter, salt pork, or 
bacon fat, turning until well browned. Reduce heat, cover, 
and let steam until tender, about 3^ an hour. Remove cover 
the last 5 minutes to crisp chicken. Place on platter, strain fat 
into a bowl leaving 1 tbsp. in pan, add 1 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsps. 
flour, and cook without browning, add little salt, pepper, and 
dash nutmeg, and 1 cup cream mixed with a tiny pinch of soda. 
When boiling pour over chicken, sprinkle with minced parsley 
which has been dipped in boiling water to make it green, and 
dust with paprika. Serve on fried mush, hominy, or cornmeal. 

417. Chicken Sauted with Pimento Timbales. — Roll 
chicken in seasoned flour, saute in a little fat and butter, and 
serve with Pimento Timbales (601), and sauce made of stock 
thickened with butter and flour and cream. 

418. Chicken Pie. — Disjoint and parboil chicken, and also 
the livers. Add to 1 cup of chicken cut from bone in rather 
large pieces, the livers diced, 2 hard-cooked eggs in slices, 2 
slices broiled bacon diced, }/2 cup fresh mushrooms, 1 sliced 
truffle, and sauce made of 3 tbsps. butter, 2 of flour, 1 cup well- 
seasoned chicken stock, and }/2 cup cream. Or omit cream and 
add a little diced ham and Madeira wine. Place an inverted cup 
in buttered dish, add the chicken mixture, and cover with puff 
paste or rich creamy baking-powder biscuit crust. If of puff 
paste, cover with a plain piece and decorate with fancy pieces of 
crust. Both crusts should be pricked to let steam out. Bake 
}/2 an hour. If a lower crust is preferred, cover outside of a basin 
with a thin layer of crust, prick it, and bake. Stand it on serv- 
ing dish. Make a round of paste the size of top of this baked 
shell, decorate it with triangles of the paste, and bake it on a tin 
sheet on buttered paper. When done, fill the shell with chicken 
mixture, slip on the cover, and send to table at once. Serve 
extra gravy in a boat. 

419. Chicken Pie, English Style. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter 
with 2 of flour, add 2 cups chicken broth, 2 tbsps. diced ham, 2 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 113 

sliced truffles, and J^ lb. sliced mushrooms. Fill a buttered 
dish with the best parts of a disjointed chicken boiled until 
nearly tender, add 2 tbsps. Madeira, 2 sliced gherkins, and a 
generous sprinkling of paprika. Arrange to have the bones 
hold crust from gravy. Cover with crust 3^ inch thick, deco- 
rate with crescents of paste, prick, brush with beaten egg and 
bake an hour. Crust paste: mix 13^ cups pastry flour with J^ 
cup butter, add 3 teasps. baking-powder, 3^ teasp. salt, and 
cream. 

420- Duckling Breasts with Hominy. — Use breasts of 
young ducks, brush with melted butter, and roll in minced onion 
and parsley seasoned with salt and pepper, cook 3^ an hour in 
buttered pan with a very little water and covered, uncover, 
spread with butter, and cook until brown. Serve on squares of 
hominy fried or sauted, with gravy made of broth of duck's trim- 
mings, thickened with flour and butter. A few sliced olives may 
be added. 

421' Guinea Chicken Breasts, Bearnaise. — Take 
breasts from bone and remove skin of small guinea chickens, 
dust with salt and pepper, and place in buttered pan and in the 
oven covered with a buttered paper for 15 minutes, remove 
paper, pour over them a little melted butter, flnish cooking 
until they are slightly brown, place each one on a piece of toast, 
cover with a very thin slice of boiled ham, pour over each a 
spoonful of Bearnaise Sauce (698), and garnish dish with arti- 
choke fonds and small sweet red peppers, the fonds filled with 
asparagus tips and the peppers filled with mushrooms minced. 

422. Guinea Chicken Breasts en Casserole. — Re- 
move breasts from 2 guinea chickens, and make a broth of the 
remainder. Cut breasts in fillets and saute them in a little 
butter, adding salt and pepper, until slightly cooked, then put 
them in a buttered casserole, cover with 1 cup of the broth, well 
reduced, and cook in oven 15 minutes. Add 2 tbsps. butter to 
saute pan and J^ lb. mushrooms — peels and chopped stems 
should have beep cooked in the broth; when slightly cooked add 
6 small thin slices of cold boiled ham, when hot add these to 
casserole. Dissolve 1 tbsp. cornstarch in a little cold broth, 
add to casserole, and cook 5 minutes. Add 2 beaten yolks mixed 
with 1 cup cream, salt, paprika, a drop of onion juice, 1 tbsp. 



114 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

lemon juice or 1 teasp. of tarragon vinegar, and 3 tbsps. butter. 
Cook a moment and pour over the birds. 

423. Guinea Chicken Fricasseed. — ^Follow recipe for 
Chicken Fricassee, when cooked place in a buttered pan, dust 
each piece with soft bread crumbs rolled in melted butter, put in 
oven or under gas broiler until brown, and serve with sauce 
poured around. 

424. Turkey Sauted Bearnaise. — Steam or boil the tur- 
key, remove meat in large fillets, roll them in egg and crumbs, 
and saute in olive oil or butter until brown. Saute 3^ lb. fresh 
mushrooms, place them around the turkey fillets and put on 
each a spoonful of Bearnaise Sauce (698). 



Cold Meat and Poultry Entrees 

Many cold entries are made with aspic jelly in large moulds 
or small moulds, and garnished. To garnish, put mould in a 
pan of ice, melt aspic, and pour in a little, turning the mould 
until it is completely lined with the aspic. Leave it on the 
ice until nearly set, then dip the garnish in melted aspic, and 
with a long pin or skewer pick up the garnish and drop it on 
the lining. When this is hard turn in the mixture or filling, 
a little at a time and most carefully, so as not to disturb the 
garnish. 

425. Aspic Jelly.— See No. 787. 

426. Beef Galantine. — Cut 3 lbs. of round of beef in small 
pieces. Cover a knuckle of veal with cold water and let it slowly 
come to the boiling point. When quite hot put in the beef, a 
little onion, celery, parsley, and 1 tbsp. vinegar, and simmer 
until the beef is quite tender. Cool in the liquor, and when cold 
remove fat, take out beef, chop it fine, and boil liquor until re- 
duced to 2 cupfuls. Mix the meat with 1 cup of the liquor, add 
2 tbsps. tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, celery salt, paprika, 
cloves, and allspice, and a very little nutmeg, press in a wet 
mould, pour the remainder of the liquor over, and when cold 
serve with a salad of lettuce or cress. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 115 

427. Chicken in Aspic Mayonnaise. — Cut 2 cups of 
cold boiled chicken in small dice. Line a mould with aspic jelly, 
and garnish it with olives, pimentoes, and hard-boiled eggs, put 
in 3^-inch lining of Mayonnaise Jelly (853), add the remainder 
to the chicken, and fill mould. 

428. Chicken or Game Cream in Aspic. — Mince and 
pound 2 cups of cooked chicken or game, add 1 tbsp. horse- 
radish, J4 teasp. salt, and paprika, dash of nutmeg and celery 
salt, and 1 cup whipped cream. Line small moulds with aspic 
jelly, fill with the cream, and place on ice for 3 hours. Serve 
with green salad. 

429. Chicken, Duck, Birds, or Turkey, Boned. — To 

do this well requires a lesson at cooking-school or from a first- 
class chef. In England the birds are not drawn before boning. 
They retain leg and wing bones, trimming them loose from the 
carcass. They also have a way of stuffing a large bird with a 
small one, all of which is too intricate to write about. 

430. Chicken Chaud-froid. — ^Truss the chicken and poel 
it on a mirepoix (see page xiii). When quite tender, cool and 
separate it into uniform fillets, discarding skin and as much 
bone as possible. Use second joints and breasts. Cover each 
one well with white Chaud-froid Sauce (792). When cold and 
firm garnish with fancy slices of truffle, pimento, and hard-boiled 
egg white, glaze with aspic, and serve on lettuce around peas 
or asparagus in French dressing, and surround with chopped 
aspic upon which the yolks are pressed through a sieve. 

431. Chicken Fillets with Remoulade Sauce. — 

Place chicken fillets in a buttered pan, sprinkle with a little 
white stock and white wine or lemon juice, salt and pepper, 
cover, and cook until tender. When cool pour over them a 
Bechamel Sauce, in which 1 tbsp. gelatine has been dissolved. 
Take up and place on a platter and mask again with the sauce. 
When cold serve on lettuce with Remoulade Sauce (768). 

432. Chicken Galantine. — Boil a 3-lb. chicken, remove 
skin, and cut from bones in strips. Reduce the stock, clear it 
and line an oblong pan or mould, garnish with blanched and 
shredded almonds, pistachio nuts, sliced olives, and capers, and 
pour in a half-inch layer of the consomme at the bottom. Lay 



116 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

in the chicken in alternate layers of white and dark meat, leav- 
ing a half-inch space at the sides, pour in the remainder of the 
stock, and put on ice for several hours. Serve cut in slices. 

433. Chicken Legs in Chaud-froid Sauce. — This is 
an expensive entree as it requires 4 chickens, but the remainder 
may be utilized in many delectable ways. Remove legs and 
white meat from the boiled chickens, cut off ends of drumsticks 
close to the meat, and skin them. Mince 13^ cups white meat, 
add 1 egg white, and press through a sieve, add 2 tbsps. soft but- 
ter, }/2 teasp. salt, 3^ teasp. paprika, and a dash of nutmeg. Fold 
in 2 egg whites beaten stiff and 3 tbsps. whipped cream. Press 
this into the large ends of the legs, set them up in a steamer, and 
steam them 10 minutes. When cold cover them with White 
Chaud-froid Sauce (792), garnish with truffles cut in fancy 
shapes, and serve very cold. 

434. Chicken Mousse. — Chop and pound until smooth 1 
cup boiled chicken, 1 minced truffle, 1 tbsp. pate de foie gras, and 
1 of sherry, and press through a sieve. Strain 1 cup hot chicken 
stock over 2 beaten yolks, add 34 teasp. each salt and paprika 
and 1 tbsp. granulated gelatine softened in a little water and a 
dash of celery salt, add the chicken mixture, and when cool add 
1 cup whipped cream and 3 egg whites beaten stiff. Mould and 
when very cold turn out and serve with lettuce or celery salad. 
Or add 3^ cup minced ham to mixture and serve with mayon- 
naise. 

435. Chicken Mousse with Celery Sauce. — Add to 1 

cup hot stock, well seasoned with bay leaf, salt, paprika, parsley, 
and a dash of nutmeg, 2 scant tbsps. gelatine softened in 34 cup 
of cold water and 2 cups minced chicken, and when cold add 3^ 
cup whipped cream. Turn into baking-powder boxes or round 
moulds, adding slices of hard-cooked egg, and when very cold 
serve with Celery Sauce (758). 

436. Chicken and Hanf Mousse. — ^Follow recipe for 
Chicken Mousse, using but 13^ cups chicken and 3^ cup minced 
cooked ham, and serve with mayonnaise. 

437. Duck Farci. — Bone the duck carefully and sprinkle 
the inside with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and shallot and 
lemon juice. Fill it with raw potatoes to keep it in shape. 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 117 

spread it with butter, dust with flour, and roast it 35 minutes. 
When cold remove the potato and fill with the stuffing. Mix 
}/% a jar of pate de foie gras with ^ cup of sherry and press it 
through a sieve. Add 1 tbsp. gelatine softened in a little cold 
water to 1 cup of well-reduced and highly seasoned stock, cool, 
and whip until cloudy. When nearly set add the foie gras and 
fill the duck. Brush the duck with aspic, garnish with pimen- 
toes, olives, cucumbers, etc., when set cover with Brown Chaud- 
froid Sauce (762), and when very cold cut in slices, but hold to- 
gether with skewers until serving time. Place on a dish of Orange 
Salad, remove skewers, and serve. 

438' Ham and Eggs in Aspic. — Cut cold boiled ham in 
thin slices and then in rounds the size of the bottom of indi- 
vidual nappies or ramekins, cover each with a cold poached egg 
cooked in rings in bacon fat, pour over a thin layer of aspic 
colored pink, and garnish with minced truffles and pistachio 
nuts. 

439. Ham Farci. — Have the bone removed from a whole 
ham and fill it with the following stuffing, roll it in cheese-cloth, 
and boil it in water and either champagne, cider, white wine, or 
a little tarragon vinegar 5 hours. When done, press it under a 
plate in the liquor until cold. Cut in slices and then in disks 
and serve with water-cress. Farci. — Mix 1 cup bread crumbs 
with 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 teasp. each chopped chives, onions, 
chervil, parsley, Worcestershire, tomato catsup, and 2 truffles 
sliced or minced. 

440. Ham Mousse. — Mix 2 cups boiled ham chopped and 
pounded very smooth with 1 tbsp. French mustard and a dash 
of cayenne. Add J^ cup of melted aspic to the ham, and 
when cold add J^ cup whipped cream. Turn into garnished 
square moulds, and when cold cut in long, narrow slices, lay a 
long slice of raw cucumber, marinated in French dressing, on 
each piece and serve with Cold Cream Sauce (759), piped 
around edge of each. 

441. Ham Rondelles. — Roll square, thin slices of boiled 
ham in cornucopia shape or over lady-lock forms until ready to 
use. They may be fastened with aspic. Fill with boiled 
pigeon or squab meat, or chicken mixed with pate de foie gras, 
and serve on lettuce with French dressing. Or fill the ham with 



118 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

any salad mixture and fasten with wooden toothpicks until 
ready to serve. 

442. Lamb or Veal Chops Chaud-froid. — Trim inch- 
thick chops, remove bone, and roll them. Saute a slice of bacon 
with a little onion, carrot, parsley, and celery, and cook the chops 
for a moment in this, then add a blade of mace and barely cover 
with stock. Put in oven and cook uncovered an hour, basting 
often. Press between two plates until cold. Cover with Brown 
Chaud-froid Sauce (762), garnish with boiled-egg-white petals 
and yolk in centre to form a daisy. When firm glaze with aspic 
and serve around a Cabbage Salad made with cooked dressing. 

443. Lamb Chops in Jellied Mayonnaise. — Have 
chops trimmed and bone cut close to meat, saute them in butter 
with a little minced parsley, celery, onion, and green pepper, and 
press until cold. Dip them in jellied mayonnaise, garnish them 
with pimentoes, truffles, and cooked green peas that have been an 
hour in marinade. 

444. Lamb Cutlets with Green Peas Puree. — Mince 
2 cups cold cooked lamb and mix it with 1 slice of broiled bacon 
minced, paprika, and salt, and egg white to make soft enough to 
form into cutlets. Cover them with Brown Chaud-froid Sauce 
(762), garnish with egg whites, truffles, and beets. When set, 
cover with White Chaud-froid quite thin and serve with Green- 
pea Puree (567), both cold. 

445. Lamb's Tongues in Jelly. — Cut pickled tongues in 
thin slices lengthwise, arrange them in a mould with slices of 
thin boiled ham cut in disks and shreds of green or red pepper. 
Fill mould with aspic jelly, and when cold turn out and serve 
with mayonnaise. 

446. Liver Cutlets Glazed or Mock Foie Gras. — 

Select a firm piece of calf's liver, about 2 lbs., and have it well 
larded. Wash it and put in a pan with 1 onion minced, J^ a 
bay leaf, blade of mace, 3 peppercorns, 3 whole cloves, 1 teasp. 
of salt, and 1 lump of loaf sugar. Cover with 2 cups of rich stock 
and cook in a medium oven 2 hours, then spread with butter and 
cook another hour unless it is already tender. Baste frequently, 
remove from the pan, and let it cool. Strain and cool the gravy. 
When the liver is cold and firm, cut in slices and with a cooky 
cutter cut in rounds. If the gravy is jellied melt it slightly and 



ENTREES OF MEATS AND POULTRY 119 

pour it over the rounds of liver. If the liquor is not jellied melt 
it and add 1 tbsp. of dissolved gelatine and strain over the liver 
as soon as it is cold. Serve the liver on a platter surrounded by 
a water-cress salad. The remainder of the liver may be pounded 
fine and mixed with the stock and put into glass jars and covered 
with hot butter or fat. It will keep a long time and may be 
used as a sandwich filhng. 

447. Pate de Foie Gras in Jelly. — Pate de foie gras is so 
rich that it should always be used in very small amounts and only 
as a very hght entree. Add to 1 cup of clear chicken consomm^ 
1 tbsp. gelatine softened in cold water and 1 tbsp. Madeira 
wine. Line tiny moulds with the jelly, fill with foie gras moist- 
ened in cream. When cold serve on lettuce. 

448. Pate de Foie Gras Mousse. — Garnish small moulds 
with tiny bits of cold boiled ham or tongue and egg and line 
them with aspic jelly. To a small jar of foie gras add 2 tbsps. 
sherry, press through a sieve, and add 3^ cup of the jelly whipped 
until frothy, continue whipping, and add J/^ cup whipped cream, 
little salt and cayenne, and fill moulds. 

449. Sweetbreads in Aspic. — Sweetbreads must be 
highly seasoned when blanched and cooked to serve as a cold 
entree, and most carefully freed from stems and skin. Form in 
cutlets and press them. When cold dip them in aspic, and when 
partly set garnish them with pimentoes and cucumber slices, 
pour more aspic over them, and when set arrange around a 
mayonnaise of green peas and celery. 

450. Sweetbread Mousse. — Chop fine 1 cup of sweet- 
breads, add }/2 cup Bechamel Sauce in which 1 tbsp. gelatine has 
been dissolved. Press through a sieve, add 1 tbsp. sherry, little 
salt and paprika, 1 cup whipped cream, and 2 egg whites beaten 
very stiff. Line moulds with aspic, strips of cucumbers mari- 
nated in French dressing, green or red pepper, or beets and 
capers. When set add a little cream to the aspic and line 
mould, let it set again, and fill with the sweetbread mixture. 

451. Turkey Pie. — Mince 2 cups of cold turkey, season with 
salt, pepper, and add J^ cup of cream. Line a buttered dish 
with thin strips of boiled ham, put in the turkey and an in- 
verted teacup, cover with a thick crust of puff paste cut in 
rounds or diamonds, and bake. Serve cold with a salad. 



120 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

452. Veal Jelly Mould. — Boil a well-covered knuckle of 
veal until tender with 1 teasp. each of minced onion, salt, and 
parsley, 1 tbsp. celery, J^ teasp. cloves, dash cayenne, and 3^ 
teasp. kitchen bouquet. Remove meat from bones, chop it fine, 
return bones to kettle, and cook until liquor is reduced to 1 pt. 
Garnish a mould with hard-boiled egg slices, pour in 3^ inch of 
the strained liquor, mix remainder with the veal and fill mould, 
and serve with salad. 

453- Veal Loaf. — Mix 2 lbs. of uncooked veal with J^ lb. 
each ham and salt pork, all minced very fine, add }/2 cup bread 
crumbs soaked in milk, 2 tbsps. melted butter, 3^ teasp. each 
salt, paprika, and onion juice, ]/% teasp. each allspice, cloves, 
dash of nutmeg, grated peel and juice of J^ lemon, and 1 egg 
well beaten. Fill a buttered pan and bake an hour, basting 
often with melted butter. Serve cold in slices. 

454. Veal and Ham Pie. — Boil ^ a scalded calf's head and 
2 lbs. veal cutlet with a bunch of savory herbs, ]/^ an onion, 2 
cloves, 1 teasp. salt, 3^ teasp. paprika, and 1 tbsp. vinegar. 
Cool in the liquor, remove meat, cook down the stock until re- 
duced to 1 pt. Cut meat into inch pieces, add 1 cup of lean 
boiled ham cut in strips, 2 hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and 
grated peel of a lemon. Fill a buttered baking dish, cover with 
a pastry crust, and bake ^ of an hour. 

455. Veal Rolls Chaud-froid. — Mince fine-cooked veal, 
spread it out in your hand, fill with pate de foie gras, roll, and 
cover with Chaud-froid Sauce (762).7'f'Garnish with aspic jelly 
cubes and truffles and serve with salad. 




Meats, roasts, or poultry, if for the formal dinner, should 
be neatly carved in the butler's pantry and passed after 
placing the largest-sized dinner plate, which should be very 
hot. The carving is done by the host at informal dinners. 
One or two vegetables usually accompany the roast; if two, 
one is of potatoes. A fruit relish is often served with the 
piece de resistance, and sometimes Savory Bouchees (285) are 
served instead of potatoes. These should be passed to the 
guests from the left. If a vegetable requires small dishes 
or plates, place them at the left of each cover, but it is con- 
sidered much better form to serve 
vegetables dry enough to be put on 
the plates with the roast. To remove 
this course, if carved on the table, 
first place the carving knife and fork 
carefully on the platter, side by side 
if the carver has neglected to do 
this; remove the platter, then all the 
plates or dishes belong- 
ing to the course from 
each cover. See that 
goblets are filled, not too 
full. Pass bread, if it is 
needed, and serve cham- 
pagne, if it be served. 





122 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Notice if guests prefer other wine, and keep the glasses filled 
until after dessert is served. 

To serve champagne, cut the wires and work out the cork 
carefully; have a napkin wrapped around the neck of the 
bottle, and as soon as the cork is out, pour a very little into 
the glass of the host to avoid giving a guest any foreign par- 
ticles; then begin at the right of the host, fill the glasses 
slowly and not too full. Champagne is sometimes served 
from a glass pitcher. In that case it is not necessary first 
to pour any in the glass of the host. Do not serve ice with 
champagne or with any wine, but champagne must be kept 
on ice for several hours before it is used, and should be 
poured the instant it is opened. The napkin around the 
bottle is to protect the wine from the heat of the hands and 
to protect the tablecloth from drops. 

The usual pieces de resistance are meats and poultry 
cooked whole and used as the main course, or "remove," as it 
is often called in the dinner menu. The fashion of serving 
both a joint or fillet of meat and a roast of poultry or poultry 
cooked whole, is on the wane. In these days one course of 
this kind is considered quite sufficient, especially if preceded 
by a substantial entree or followed by game. Chicken and 
game are rarely served at the same meal, unless the chicken 
be in a light entr6e; neither are two kinds of meat unless the 
first be sweetbreads. The only exception to this rule is when 
venison is the game served; 'then a substantial entree of 
chicken or sweetbreads or even a remove of chicken may pre- 
cede it. For this reason the following section includes poul- 
try as well as meat in the removes, or pieces de resistance, 
recipes for which will be found under their separate head- 
ings. 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 123 

Meat Removes 

456. Beef Fillet.— Beef fillet is the whole tenderloin, larded 
and cooked whole; it is then sliced and served from the platter 
with a rich sauce, usually of mushrooms. Also serve white or 
sweet potatoes in any fancy way, or new boiled potatoes with 
butter and parsley. Hominy or rice may be served instead of 
potatoes; also serve peas or egg-plant, Brussels sprouts, tomatoes 
baked, sautid, or broiled, green corn or cauliflower in green pep- 
pers, and currant jelly or any sweet-fruit pickle. The meat 
may be garnished with baked bananas or triangles of puff paste 
or mushrooms broiled, and a horseradish sauce is also a good 
accompaniment. As the meat, although very tender, has but 
little flavor, it should be cooked quickly in a hot oven with a 
mirepoix (see page xiii). The following recipe is especially 
recommended, just as it is served in a famous Detroit restau- 
ranti 

457. Beef Fillet of the Holland Tea Room. — Cover 
the bottom of a dripping pan with 4 slices of salt pork, upon 
which put a layer of diced onion, carrot, and celery. Lay on 
this a well-larded fillet, put it in a hot oven for 15 minutes, pour 
over 1 tbsp. brandy, dust with salt and pepper, and bake 15 or 
20 minutes longer, according to size of fillet. Baste often and 
serve on hot platter, cut in slices, keeping them together as much 
as possible. Add a little flour to the pan, then 1 cup cream, and 
when boiling strain into sauce boat and add 1 cup of fresh mush- 
rooms sauted in butter. Garnish the platter with peas, beans, 
cauliflower, asparagus tips, or canned asparagus and potato 
balls browned in butter. These should be arranged around the 
meat, having more cauliflower than anything else, and at one 
end of the platter, and sprinkle it with Braisle (789). Pass 
currant- jelly forms and possibly Cream Horseradish Sauce (762). 

458. Beef Fillet Tenderloin with Crust. — Cook as 
above and cover 5 minutes before it is done with a rich baking- 
powder or Near-Puff-Paste (1220) crust and return to oven until 
crust is well baked. Serve with mushroom sauce and cut 
through crust gently and through meat, thus serving crust and 
meat together. 

459. Beef Roasted with Yorkshire Pudding. — Beef 
should be roasted in a hot oven until well seared over; then 



124 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

reduce heat and cook from 12 to 15 minutes for each pound, 
counting from the time the meat is put in the oven. A sirloin 
roast with rib bones removed and the meat closely rolled gives 
the best satisfaction. If it be sprinkled on both sides with 
French dressing the day before it is required it will be tender 
and juicy. Wipe the meat, lay it on a rack in roasting pan, put 
1 tbsp. water in bottom of pan, but not to touch the meat, dust 
meat with pepper and salt, and baste often while cooking. 
When done, place meat on platter, pour off all but 2 tbsps. of 
fat in pan, add 1 tbsp. flour, and stir until brown (not too brown, 
however), add 1 cup hot water, stir until smooth, season with salt 
and pepper, and a few drops of any good table sauce, strain into 
a boat, and serve. Serve also peeled white potatoes baked in 
the pan, or sweet potatoes, or white potatoes mashed and riced, 
or sweet potatoes caramelled, also one vegetable (Green or wax 
or lima beans, cauliflower, corn, baked tomatoes, turnips, egg- 
plant or vegetable oyster), and as a relish, currant or grape jelly, 
or sweet pickled fruit and, if liked, horseradish sauce either hot 
or cold. YoEKSHiRE Pudding. — Sift 2 cups flour with 3^ teasp. 
each salt and baking-powder, add 3^ cup milk, and beat well. 
Add, one at a time, 2 eggs to another }/2 cup milk, beat well with 
Dover egg-beater, add to the flour, with enough more milk to make 
soft batter, beat with beater until smooth and full of bubbles. 
About 20 minutes bef or^ beef is done, pour 2 tbsps. of fat from 
pan into a shallow pan, pour in the batter, and bake in moderate 
oven 20 minutes. Cut in squares and serve around the meat. 

460. Beef a la Mode or Pot Roast.— Have 5 lbs. of 
beef round, well larded. Cook in hot kettle J^ lb. salt pork, 2 
onions, 1 carrot, bit of bay leaf, 4 cloves, and 2 peppercorns 15 
minutes ; add meat and sear it quickly, cover, and simmer 3^ an 
hour, cover with 3 pts. boiling water and simmer 3 hours, adding 
more water if necessary. Add 1 teasp. salt and 2 whole peppers 
and cook another hour. Put meat on hot platter, strain liquor, 
which should be well reduced and quite dark, in a boat, and serve. 
When cold put meat in a bowl and cover with the gravy and 
serve cold cut in slices on a bed of water-cress. A Prune Relish 
(784) should be served with pot roasts as well as boiled potatoes 
and turnips or cabbage and Cream Horseradish Sauce (762). 

461. Beef a la Mode with Tomatoes. — Cook as above 
without vegetables, searing meat in suet, cover with hot water, 



PIELCE DE RESISTANCE 125 

and cook 2 hours, add 1 can tomatoes, salt, pepper, savory herbs, 
onion, parsley, and J^ of a small loaf of bread cut in inch cubes. 
When done serve with gravy strained and poured over meat. 

462. Beef Pot Roast, Spanish Style. — Dust meat well 
with salt and pepper, sprinkle with 1 tbsp. minced onion, 1 of 
sweet red pepper, and 3^ cup flour, rub it in well on all. sides, 
then pound it in. Sear the meat in hot fat, cover with water, 
and continue cooking as above. 

463. Beef Poeled with Mirepoix. — Remove fat from a 
6-lb. cross rib roast, melt a little of it, and sear the meat quickly 
on every side. Lay it on a Mirepoix, cover and roast }/2 hour, 
remove cover, and cook 20 or 30 minutes ; serve with gravy made 
in pan. For Mirepoix, see page xiii. 

464. Lamb Roasted. — Spring lamp, of course, is the great- 
est delicacy and should be dusted with salt and pepper, and 
roasted in a hot oven 18 minutes to the pound. Serve with 
gravy from pan and also mint sauce or mint jelly, or currant 
mint sauce. Also serve new potatoes boiled, green peas, or as- 
paragus tips, or cooked cucumbers. If lamb be old serve po- 
tatoes, Brussels sprouts or creamed turnips or carrots, carrots 
and peas creamed together, creamed spinach, and any mint 
jelly or pickled sweet fruits. 

465. Lamb Crown Roasted.— Have butcher chop through 
the bones of 2 loins of 6 chops each, trim ends of bones and tie 
loins in a circle with meat inside and bones standing up. As 
soon as it comes from market, cut a slit between each bone and 
insert a thin slice of lemon, cover bone ends with pieces of salt 
pork, and place meat on ice until ready to cook it. Dust with 







126 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

salt and pepper, place on rack, and bake an hour in hot oven, 
basting often with butter and water or stock. It may be baked 
in a paper bag about 50 minutes, or in fireless cooker 1^ hours. 
When done remove string and pork and lemon slices, place meat 
on hot platter, fill centre with a puree of chestnuts put through 
a ricer, or sweet potato balls sUghtly caramelled, green peas, and 
carrots in cream sauce, or white potato balls covered with bits of 
butter and minced parsley. Cover bones with paper frills or 
cranberries, and serve with mint sauce or Currant Mint Sauce 
(712) in a small boat. 

466' Lamb Roasted in Paper Bag, Yearling. — Mari^ 
nate a well-trimmed leg of lamb in French dressing over night, 
steam it 20 minutes, brush with egg yolk diluted with 1 tbsp. 
milk, dust with pepper and salt, roll in crumbs mixed with melted 
butter, slip in bag, and cook 1 hour. This is almost as good as 
spring lamb. 

467. Mutton Boiled. — A boiled leg of mutton with caper 
sauce is a favorite remove for the English informal dinner, and 
if carefully trimmed and cooked, and served with boiled rice and 
cooked cabbage, is quite acceptable, occasionally. But those 
who will try the following recipe will find a remove suitable for 
the best of dinners and liked by the majority of diners. 

468. Mutton Fillet Supreme. — Have butcher skin and 
remove bone from a fine leg of mutton which has hung 2 or 3 
weeks. Marinate it over night in French dressing. Rub it all 
over with a cut onion and lemon, squeeze juice of lemon over 
top, dust with }/2 teasp. salt and J^ teasp. paprika, turn }/2 cup 
currant jelly over top, and put in hot oven 1}^ hours, basting 
constantly. Place on hot dish, strain liquor from pan over it, 
pour over 3^ cup sherry, and serve cut in slices like a fillet of beef. 
Serve with it a macedoine of vegetables and Rice Croquettes en 
Surprise (786). 

469. Mutton Leg Stuffed. — Prepare leg of mutton as 
above, stuff with 1 cup crumbs mixed with 2 tbsps. butter, 3 
tbsps. minced almonds, 3^ teasp. salt, 1 teasp. parsley, and 2 
drops Tabasco. Put on rack in pan, under which place 1 sliced 
onion, 1 carrot diced, 1 sliced tomato, 2 tbsps. diced celery, and 
2 sprigs parsley. Add 2 cups boiling water to pan, cover, and 
cook in oven 2 hours. Remove cover, dust meat with salt, flour. 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 127 

and pepper, add bits of butter, and cook until brown. Place 
on hot dish, add 1 tbsp. browned flour to liquor in pan, when 
boiling strain, and serve in a boat. 

470. Mutton Saddle Roasted.— Have butcher skin a sad- 
dle, cut in decorations, and round into shape; the backbone may 
also be removed. Pour over it French dressing and let stand 
over night. Dust with 1 teasp. salt, dash pepper, and 1 tbsp. 
flour, and put in oven 1^^ hours, carve into strips parallel to 
backbone, and serve with currant jelly. 

471. Pork. — Although pork is tabooed by many, it is a very 
good dinner meat for those of strong digestions. It should 
always be very cold when put in oven and cooked long and slow, 
as it must be thoroughly done. Twenty minutes to the pound 
should be allowed. 

472. Ham Baked or Boiled. — If ham be especially fine, 
not too hard and salt, it may be served as a remove, always with 
spinach or cabbage in some attractive way, and potatoes. It 
may be boiled in water with a little vinegar, or half water and 
half cider, or champagne. A delicious sauce may be served with 
ham made of a little butter, pimento puree, French mustard, a 
good brown table sauce, Madeira wine, and Meat Essence, in pro- 
portions to suit individual taste. Champagne Sauce or Chive 
Sauce is also suitable to serve. Also apples baked with jelly 
or cider jelly or apple sauce. Ham Baked. — Soak ham over 
night in water, to which add 1 cup vinegar and 2 tbsps. sugar, or, 
if at hand, soak it in buttermilk. In morning scrub it with soda 
water, wipe dry, and completely cover it with a paste J^ inch 
thick of flour and water stiff enough to roll. Wet edges and 
pinch together and bake in oven or fireless cooker 5 hours. Re- 
move dough, skin, and remove some of the fat, and pour over 
Madeira wine or champagne, and let it stand an hour or more, 
basting often; then spread with a paste made of equal parts of 
dry mustard, sugar, vinegar, and olive oil, add salt and pepper, 
and bake 1 hour. 

473. Pork Roasted. — This is served as a remove occa- 
sionally, wlien the weather is very cold. A loin from young pig, 
with ribs cut nearly through, is best, and if kept very cold until 
put in oven it is acceptable to many. Serve plain boiled or 
mashed and riced potatoes, spinach, or Brussels sprouts, or cab- 



128 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

bage cooked in some delicate way, and always apple sauce. 
Dust loin with pepper and salt and a little sage, put in the oven 
or slip it in a well-buttered paper bag, place on a rack across pan 
and in a hot oven for 2 minutes, reduce heat, and cook 13^ hours, 
open bag, and if not brown return to oven until sufficiently 
brown. Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 2 of flour until slightly brown, 
add the essence from bag, and hot water to make 1 cup. A 
little good table sauce may be added if desired. 

474. Crown Roast of Pork. — Have ribs cut as for lamb 
crown and cook as above, either in the oven or in bag; it takes a 
little longer to cook it in oven. If in pan, turn fat from pan in a 
bowl and set bowl in one of cold water, changing water until fat 
rises to top, skim it off, and make gravy as above. Serve the 
crown with centre filled with sweet-potato slices cooked in sugar 
and butter and a little cinnamon, and serve Apples Cooked with 
JeUy (1105). 

475. Little Pig, Roasted. — Clean and scald a 5 weeks' 
old little pig, cut gashes in thighs and shoulders and stuff the 
gashes as well as inside with the following. To 2 cups soft bread 
crumbs add 1 tbsp. each butter and parsley, J/^ teasp. each salt, 
sage, and savory herbs, juice and grated peel of 1 lemon, with 
enough hot water to soften slightly. Put pig on rack, roll ears 
in greased cloth, put a piece of corn-cob or wood in the mouth, 
spread back with butter, dust with salt, pepper, and flour, add 
}/2 cup white wine to pan, and cook 23^ hours in moderate oven, 
basting often. Brush the skin with cream, remove ear covering 
and mouth stuffing, put an apple in mouth and cranberries in 
the eyes and serve with gravy made from liquor in pan, thick- 
ened and strained. Have oven very hot the last 15 minutes to 
crisp the skin. 

476' Veal. — Serve with veal rice, spinach, cauliflower, to- 
matoes, asparagus, white or sweet potatoes, beets, parsnips, 
beans, and sweet pickled fruits. 

477' Veal Fricandeau. — Have a fillet cut 2 inches thick 
from the best part of leg, lard it, and dust well with salt and pep- 
per, and place it on a layer of salt pork sprinkled with minced 
onion, carrot, turnips, celery, 2 or 3 cloves, bay leaf, and J^ 
teasp. savory herbs. Cook in very hot oven 15 minutes, baste 
often with fat in pan, reduce heat and cook 15 minutes to the 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 129 

pound. It should be almost tender enough to cut with a spoon. 
Pour over the meat J/^ cup Meat Essence (66) until glazed, and 
serve with gravy from pan thickened and strained. It is very 
good cooked this way in a casserole. 

478. Veal Roll Roasted. — Spread a 1-inch-thick slice of 
veal with 1 tbsp. melted butter mixed with J^ cup soft bread 
crumbs, l^ teasp. each savory herbs, salt, pepper, 1 teasp. minced 
parsley, 1 bay leaf crumbled, and 1 tbsp. each diced onion and 
carrot. Roll, tie with string, cover with boiling water or white 
stock, and simmer until tender; place meat on rack in pan, 
cover with 3 slices of bacon, dust with pepper and paprika, and 
roast }/2, an hour, basting often. Remove string, place on plat- 
ter, and cut in slices like a fillet. Serve with gravy made in pan 
with stock in which meat was boiled. 

479. Veal with Sour Cream Sauce. — Have bone re- 
moved from leg of veal and stuff with soft bread crumbs mixed 
with sliced mushrooms, parsley, thyme, mace, salt, and pap- 
rika, softened with melted butter and a little stock. Spread veal 
with butter, dust with salt and pepper, and roast 20 minutes to 
the pound. When half-done, pour over it 1 cup of slightly sour 
cream and finish roasting, basting often. Serve on platter, add 
flour to pan and a little stock if necessary to make sufficient 
amount of gravy. 

Poultry Removes 

To Dress and Truss a Fowl. — Directions for dressing 
and trussing poultry in the best manner will be found 
in " Lessons in Cooking through Preparation of Meals," 
Robinson and Hammel, published by American School of 
Home Economics, Chicago. 

480. Chicken Baked, Bechamel. — Split broilers, flatten 
them with a cleaver, rub them with a cut lemon, dust with salt, 
pepper, and most lightly with flour, cover with egg, roll in 
crumbs, and place in a buttered pan. Bake until a light brown, 
basting often, after 10 minutes, with hot water and butter. Ar- 
range on platter, cover with Bechamel Sauce, and garnish with 
finely minced green and red pepper and parsley. 



130 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

481. Chicken Deviled and Baked. — ^Prepare chicken as 
for broiling, place in a buttered pan, dust with salt and pepper, 
spread with butter, and bake 10 minutes, basting with a little 
hot water. Cream 4 tbsps. butter, add 1 tbsp. French mustard, 
1 teasp. tarragon vinegar, }/2 teasp. each salt and paprika, and 
spread over the chickens. Cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake about }/2 ^n hour, or until they are brown and tender. 
Garnish with Cucumber Fancies (794) and small stuffed and 
baked tomatoes. 

482. Chicken Baked a la Poulette. — ^Truss chickens 
and parboil in salted water 10 minutes, split them through the; 
back and press under a weight for an hour or more. Brush with 
beaten egg, dust with salt and pepper, and roll in fine bread 
crumbs. Lay it in buttered pan in a little salt-pork fat and 
butter, and saute until brown. Cover with buttered paper, 
place in oven and cook 3^ an hour, or until tender, basting with 
a little hot water and butter added to pan. Place on platter, 
add 1 teasp. flour to pan and 1 cup broth, 1 tbsp. each minced 
parsley and celery, add 1 teasp. minced onion and 2 or 3 well 
beaten yolks mixed with a little of the broth, cook a moment, 
beating constantly with a spiral beater, add 1 teasp. tarragon 
vinegar, dust with paprika, and serve. 

483. Chicken Boiled with Cream Sauce. — Truss 
chicken and wrap it in cheese-cloth, cover with boiling water, 
add 2 tbsps. each diced carrots, sliced onion, J^ bay leaf, 4 pep- 
percorns, a piece of dried red pepper, and 1 slice salt pork cut 
in dice. Simmer until tender, 2 or 3 hours if a fowl, take from 
kettle, and cover with buttered bread crumbs and place in hot 
oven until brown. Cook gravy until reduced to 1 cup, add it 
to 3 tbsps. butter cooked with 3 of flour, and when ready to 
serve add 1 cup thin cream and strain in a boat. 

484. Chicken en Casserole. — Chicken cooked whole in 
the casserole with vegetables is braised or poeled chicken and is 
most popular. The casserole preserves the flavor and juices, 
and when food to be cooked in it requires long cooking the 
casserole may be covered and placed in the fireless cooker. The 
most popular casserole is a deep round or oval earthen basin 
with a cover, which may be sent to table in a nickel or silver 
standard. Any deep, covered earthen dish may be used. Small 
individual casseroles are sometimes used for small birds or tiny 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 131 

broilers, or many hot mixtures, and one is placed before each 
guest. The contents of the casserole may be carved in the 
kitchen but served in the dish. Truss young chickens, put 1 
tbsp. butter, a sprig of tarragon or parsley, and a dusting of salt 
and pepper in each bird, spread breasts with butter, place them 
in a buttered casserole, and put them in a hot oven, uncovered, 
15 minutes, or until brown. Add 1 cup hot cream, dust with 
salt and pepper, cover, and cook in oven 15 minutes. Remove 
cover, baste well with the cream, cover with buttered bread 
crumbs, and leave in oven until crumbs are brown. Wipe edges ■ 
of casserole, garnish with water-cress and send to table un- 
covered. 

485- Chicken en Casserole, Hungarian Style. — Stuff 
chickens with bread stuffing, truss them well (it will take one 
large or 2 small chickens for 6 persons), tie on the breasts slices 
of lemon covered with salt pork. Put in a buttered casserole 
a few slices onion, blade mace, 2 cloves, sprig parsley, 2 
peppercorns, and 1 cup white or chicken stock, adding more as 
it cooks down. Cover with the chicken and cook an hour or 
more. Remove chickens, strain sauce into 3^ cup cream mixed 
with 1 yolk, add 1 tbsp. butter, 1 tbsp. minced parsley and 1 
teasp. Hungarian paprika. Color sauce red with a harmless 
coloring liquid, pour over the chicken, and send to table with 
a mould of boiled rice, or place small rice balls around the 
chicken. 

48G- Chicken en Casserole with Vegetables. — ^Put 
in the dish 12 button onions, 1 carrot cut in fancy shapes, and 
2 cups hot water well seasoned. Place chicken on vegetables 
and cook uncovered J^ an hour. Add 12 small potato balls, 
6 fresh mushrooms, 1 tbsp. minced green or sweet red pepper, 
}/2 teasp. salt, pepper, and paprika, cover, and cook until pota- 
toes are tender. Add 1 tbsp. cornstarch dissolved in a little 
cold water, cook 10 minutes, add 1 tbsp. butter and 2 of sherry, 
and serve. 

457. Chicken or Capon en Cocotte, French Style. — 

A cocotte, which is called a "Dutch oven" in this country, is a 
smooth, deep, iron kettle with an iron cover which fits closely. 
This kettle should never be washed, but scraped and rubbed 
with soft cloths until it is perfectly smooth inside. The longer 
it is used the better it is. Every one knows that the cooked 



132 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

chicken of France is perfection, and it is all on account of this 
unwashed " cocotte." Select a broiler or a yearling or a young 
capon and wipe, but do not wash it. Truss, put one medium 
onion inside, spread with butter, and dredge lightly with flour. 
Put J^ cup of firm beef suet, shaved fine, in kettle and place the 
chicken on it. Cover and cook over moderate fire 15 minutes. 
Dust with salt and pepper, put on lid, and cook slowly an hour 
for a 4-lb. chicken and ]/% hour for a broiler. Baste and turn 
often, having care not to pierce the skin. When brown, with 
a crisp skin, place on hot dish, pour off all the fat from the ket- 
tle, add 1 cup of hot water, stir until dissolved, and strain over 
the chicken. If it must wait after it is cooked, keep warm un- 
covered over a moderate fire. Squabs stuffed with chestnuts 
are delicious cooked this way. It takes about 35 minutes. 

488>, Chicken Roasted with Chestnuts or Mush- 
rooms. — Stuff 1 large or 2 small chickens with chestnut or 
mushroom stuffing, truss it, brush with butter, dust with 
salt and pepper, and put on a rack in pan and in a hot oven 
until beginning to brown, reduce heat, and cook 1 to 2 hours, 
basting often. Add to pan \^ cup hot water, 1 slice salt pork, 
diced, tiny bit bay leaf, 1 clove, sprig parsley, and a little green 
celery. If with mushrooms pour over a little sherry mixed with 
cream. When done place chicken on platter, pour off all fat 
in pan but 3 tbsps., add 2 tbsps. flour and slightly color, add 1 
cup stock from giblets cooked with a slice of salt pork, salt and 
pepper, a little lemon juice, and the minced giblets. Serve sur- 
rounded with chestnut or mushroom pur^e put through pastry 
tube in roses. Place a tiny piece of pimento on each rose and 
serve gravy in boat. 

489. Chicken Deviled and Roasted.— Stuff chicken 
with bread stufiBng, spread with butter, dust generously with dry 
mustard mixed with flour, sprinkle with salt and paprika, and 
roast. 

490. Chicken Roasted with Ham.— Stuff and truss 
chicken, tie onto breast and thighs J/^ lb. ham sliced very thin, 
and roast, basting at first with a little water and then with the 
fat in pan until a fork will pierce easily through ham into chicken. 
Remove ham, place chicken on hot dish, lay the ham around, 
and pour over the sauce. Brown 1 tbsp. butter with 2 of flour, 



Pl£CE DE RESISTANCE 133 

add liquor from pan, strain, and cook with 1 cup fresh mush- 
rooms until they are tender. 

491. Chicken Roasted with Oyster Sauce. — Stuff 
chickens with Oyster Stuffing (512), roast as usual, basting with 
oyster liquor and butter, and serve with Oyster Sauce (738). 
Thicken gravy in pan and serve in a boat. 

492. Chicken Roasted in Paper Bag. — All chickens 
may be roasted in paper bags, and it is advisable to do so, as the 
juice and flavor is much conserved and the chicken does not 
shrink as much in cooking as in an open oven. Stuff and pre- 
pare chicken as usual, spread breasts and thighs with butter or 
with slices of salt pork, dust with salt and pepper, and slip into 
a well-buttered paper bag placed on a wire rack on top of a pan. 
Place in hot oven, in 5 minutes reduce heat, and cook in a 
very slow oven 1 hour. Remove from oven split bag and turn 
chicken on hot platter. Make gravy with butter and flour 
slightly browned, to which add the juice from bag and enough 
stock to make the required amount, and serve in a boat. This, 
of course, requires no attention whatever during the hour of 
cooking. 

493. Capon Boiled with Puree of Mushroom Sauce. 

— Stuff the bird with equal portions of bread crumbs, minced 
veal, and mushroom stems, minced, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, adding a little butter, and softened with stock. Tie 4 
slices of salt pork on breast and legs, wrap in cheese-cloth, 
cover with boiling water or white stock, and simmer until 
tender, about an hour. Remove pork and serve on a platter 
with the sauce in a boat. Add to Cream Sauce 2 tbsps. butter, 
2 egg yolks slightly beaten, and J^ lb. mushrooms cooked in 
butter and pressed through a coarse sieve. It is improved by 
larding sliced truffles in breast. The pork will hold them while 
capon is cooking, and it improves the flavor. Serve with capon, 
sweet potato, cooked celery, Brussels sprouts or spinach, and 
cranberry jelly. 

494. Capon Complet in Casserole. — Rub a capon with 
a cut lemon, cover breast and second joints with bacon slices, 
and put it in a buttered casserole with but little water or stock. 
If the bird is too large for the dish, cut off the legs and wings and 
tuck them down by the side of the body, add salt, pepper, and 



134 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1 tbsp. each minced onion and parsley. Cover and cook an 
hour in oven, adding more water if necessary. Remove bacon, 
cook until brown, add 1 cup gravy made from the giblets and 
trimmings and thickened with cornstarch, add 2 tbsps. butter, 

2 or 3 minced truflSes, and 1 cup mushrooms tossed in butter. 

495. Ducks or Ducklings Roasted with Cherry 
Sauce. — Cover breasts of ducks with slices of salt pork or bacon 
and of ducklings with butter, dust with salt and pepper. Cook 
ducks l}/2 hours and ducklings ^ of an hour, having oven very 
hot at first. If ducks are old, steam them an hour before roasting, 
in a covered roaster, with 1 cup water in pan, basting often, 
then remove cover and finish cooking. Serve with gravy made 
in pan as for chicken. Ducks may be stuffed with Potato 
Stufi&ng (515), mixed with walnuts. Serve parsnips or aspara- 
gus, browned sweet potatoes, stewed celery, and sour-grape jelly. 
Chop 1 cup canned red cherries quite fine and add to the duck 
gravy with 2 tbsps. of the juice. 

496. Ducks Roasted with Green-Grape Sauce. — Stuff 
ducks with bread stuffing, mixed with J^ cup celery moistened 
with stock, and roast them. Cook 1 cup stock }/2 ^■n hour with a 
little minced ham and onion, a tiny blade of mace, 2 cloves, and 
a bit of bay leaf. Strain and add to 1 tbsp. butter cooked with 
2 of flour, add 1 cup green grapes cooked in stock and pressed 
through a sieve. Add 2 tbsps. sherry and serve in a boat. 

497. Ducklings Roasted, Stuffed with Mushrooms. 

— Fill ducklings with Mushroom Stuffing (514), roast them, and 
add to 1 cup gravy, J^ cup currant jelly, or sour-grape jelly. 

498. Ducks Roasted with Olives.— Stuff ducks with 
bread mixed with the minced liver, a little minced onion and 
parsley cooked in butter, 2 slices salt pork diced, salt, pepper, 
and plenty of paprika. Stone 1 doz. large olives, fill them with 
the stuffing, roast duck, and lay olives around it 10 minutes be- 
fore it is done. For ducklings serve olives in the sauce and do 
not stuff the ducklings. 

499. Ducklings with Oranges. — Method L— Put 1 very 
•small onion and a small orange in each duck before roasting and 
•add }4, cup orange marmalade to gravy. Method 2. — Roast 
ducks with onion inside, when done remove onion and add juice 
of 2' oranges, the parboiled shredded rind, and 1 teasp. caramel 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 135 

to gravy. Method 3. — Prick 3 sour oranges with a fork, cover 
each with 1 tbsp. sugar, and bake until tender. Cut in halves 
and serve around the duck. 

500. Duck Salmi. — Disjoint 2 young ducks, place them in a 
large buttered pan, cover with 2 cups white or chicken stock 
mixed with 1 cup minced celery, salt, pepper, and a bit of bay 
leaf. Cook in hot oven, basting often, 1 hour. Place duck on 
platter, strain gravy, adding enough stock to make 1)4, cUps. 
Put 1 tbsp. butter in the pan, add 2 tbsps. flour, when slightly 
brown add the gravy, J^ cup tomato catsup, 1 doz. pimolas parr 
boiled, 1 cup canned mushrooms, sliced, and 3 tbsps. sherry. 
Serve with guava jelly. 

501. Goose Roasted. — Select a bird with yellow bill and 
soft breast bone. Singe and wash it in hot soda water, scrub- 
bing well both inside and out. Rinse in several cold waters, 
rub inside and out with salt, pepper, and savory herbs, and steam 
}/2, an hour to extract the oil. Fill with potato stuffing, brush 
with melted butter, and dust well with soft bread crumbs mixed 
with an equal amount of flour, dust with salt and pepper, and 
roast on a rack with a very little water in pan. Baste often, 
and when half-done pour off some of the fat from pan and add 
a little more hot water and continue basting. Serve with gravy 
made with a little fat in pan, flour, and hot water, to which add 
1 teasp. each of Brand sauce and vinegar and a grating of nut- 
meg. A teasp. of mustard may be added, and the goose stuffed 
with sauerkraut, which is the German style of cooking goose, 
and it is very good. Serve with baked apples and water-cress. 

502. Guinea Chickens. — ^These are most popular and they 
often take the place of game. They may be cooked by the same 
methods used for game or chickens, cooking them a little longer 
than game and not quite so long as chicken. 

503. Guinea Chicken Roasted with Celery and 
Mushroom Stuffing. — Chop stems of J^ lb. fresh mush- 
rooms and mix with 1 cup each of minced celery and bread, sea- 
son with salt, pepper, mace, summer savory, and thyme, and 
soften with butter. Add the mushroom caps to gravy. Spread 
breasts with salt pork, bacon, or butter, and bake an hour. 
Add butter to pan, then flour, and when boiling add 1 cup hot 
cream, salt, pepper, and dash nutmeg, and serve the caps. 



136 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

504. Guinea Chicken Roasted with Malaga Grape 
Stuffing. — Cook 1 lb. grapes in white stock or water with 3^ 
cup Madeira wine 10 minutes, drain, and add 3^ of the grapes 
to soft bread crumbs, season, and fill birds. Cover breasts with 
slices of salt pork or butter, and roast about 50 minutes, basting 
often, or in paper bag 45 minutes. Serve on platter and add 
the remainder of grapes to gravy, cook 10 minutes, add J^ cup 
Madeira, and serve in boat. 

505- Guinea Chicken Roasted with Prunes. — Stuff 
birds with Bread Stuffing (512), to which add a few cooked 
prunes, roast, and serve with the Prune Relish (784), placed 
around birds. 

506- Turkey. — Turkeys are nearly always roasted; occa- 
sionally one hears of boiled turkey with oyster sauce, which is 
very good, but whoever tries a broiled or sauted turkey when one 
can be secured that is very young, small, and tender, will repeat 
the experiment whenever it is possible to secure a very young 
bird. Serve riced or mashed sweet potatoes, Onions au Gratin, 
and cranberry jelly or sauce. 

S07' Turkey Broiled. — Select a young turkey weighing 
5 or 6 lbs., split it down the back, and flatten with a cleaver. 
Place it on rack in pan, spread it well with butter, dust with salt 
and pepper, cover, and steam 1 hour. Remove cover and broil 
it slowly until a light brown, or it may be sauted in a large hot 
spider. Spread with butter, dust with salt and paprika, and 
garnish with lemon and parsley. 

505. Turkey Roasted. — Dust inside of a well-cleaned tur- 
key with salt and pepper, put in stuffing, truss legs and wings 
securely. Wet it all over with cold water, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and let it stand an hour or more. Put J^ cup water 
with 1 tbsp. salt in pan, rest turkey on a trivet with breast side 
down to be turned in J^ an hour. Cook in moderate oven, bast- 
ing often, turn turkey, spread breast with a blanket of celery, 
and 15 minutes before it is done remove celery and spread breast 
with butter, dust with salt and pepper, and lightly with flour, 
and bake until brown. Fifteen minutes to the pound is the 
usual time. Make broth of giblets, trimmings, and 1 slice of salt 
pork, strain and use for gravy. Add 2 tbsps. flour to 3 tbsps. 
of fat in pan, cook until nearly brown, add IJ^ cups of strained 



PIECE DE RESISTANCE 137 

broth, salt, pepper, and 1 teasp. of any good table sauce, and 
the giblets and liver minced fine. It may be stuffed with 
Chestnut, Mushroom, Oyster, or Sausage stuffing, or add minced 
salt pork to a bread stuffing with minced celery and the usual 
savory herbs, including onions. 

509. Turkey Roasted with Truffle Sauce. — Stuff 
turkey with Mushroom Stuffing (514), lard breasts with sliced 
truffies, spread breasts and legs with butter, dust with salt and 
pepper, put it in a buttered paper bag or in oven on rack in 
pan, add 34 cup water to pan, and bake 2 hours if in bag and 2J^ 
hours if in pan. If cooked in pan, add J^ cup white wine, if in 
bag pour over 3 tbsps. Serve with gravy made in pan, to which 
add sliced mushrooms and minced truffles. Peeled sweet pota- 
toes may be cooked around the turkey the last half -hour. 

Stuffings for Poultry and Meats 

5 10. Apple and Celery Stuffing for Duck or Goose. 

— Saut^ 1 tbsp. minced onion in 2 of butter and add 1 cup each 
minced celery and apple, cook 5 minutes, add 1 cup soft bread 
crumbs, salt, pepper, and stock to moisten. 

51 1^ Apple and Prune Stuffing. — For turkey or chicken. 
Mix with 1 cup bread crumbs 1 cup each of sliced apples and 
stoned prunes, season with salt, pepper, and sweet marjoram, 
add 2 tbsps. butter and water or stock. 

512. Bread Stuffing. — Cut bread in small pieces, dip 
crusts in warm water seasoned with salt and pepper, squeeze 
them gently. To 2 cups o ' the bread, add 1 tbsp. each soft but- 
ter, minced onion, parsley, and celery; add salt, pepper, thyme, 
summer savory, or sage to season well. Stuff the fowl lightly an 
hour or more before cooking it. A few oysters may also be added. 

513. Chestnut Stuffing. — ^Peel, blanch, and boil 2 cups of 
chestnuts in salted water 20 minutes, or until tender, drain and 
mash or cut in small pieces, add 1 cup of soft crumbs, 3 tbsps. 
soft butter, 1 tbsp. cream, )4 teasp. salt, dash cayenne and nut- 
meg, and enough hot water to soften. 

514. Mushroom Stuffing. — Make bread stuffing with half 
the amount of bread, add fresh mushrooms chopped fine, and 



138 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1 slice of salt pork diced, a grating of nutmeg, and soften with 
cream. The stems may be used for stuffing and the caps 
reserved for the sauce. Celery may be added to the stuffing. 

SIS. Potato and Nut Stuffing for Roast Goose. — 

Mix 1 cup hot mashed potato with ]/2 cup walnut or pecan 
meats, 1 teasp. grated onion, ^ teasp. salt, 1 teasp. pimento 
pulp, 1 teasp. savory herbs, }/^ cup soft bread crumbs, and but- 
ter to soften. 




At dinners and luncheons many vegetables are served as a 
separate course after the meat or heavy course. These 
entries are served in same manner as a meat entr6e. 

All the following vegetables which may be served as a 
separate course are called "Entrees." 

All boiled vegetables, with but few exceptions, are to be 
covered with boiling water, to which add 1 teasp. of salt and, 
for green vegetables, V^ teasp. of soda. A pur6e is a boiled 
vegetable pressed through a coarse sieve or colander. 



S16. Artichokes, Entree. — Cut stems and tough outside 
leaves from 3 large or 6 small French artichokes, soak in cold 
water 3^ an hour, boil them leaf side down with 1 tbsp. vinegar 
added to water 20 or 30 minutes. Drain, upside down, on 
colander and serve either a half or a whole one on a plate to 
each person. Pass Hollandaise Sauce, Rich. Or cool them, 
remove enough centre leaves to reach the furze, or choke, take 
it out, fill centre with a tbsp. of Vinaigrette Sauce, and serve 
cold. Although the whole French artichoke is very common 
in many localities, there may be those who do not know 
how to eat them. Remove each leaf with the fingers, dip 
the base of leaf in the sauce, which is put on side of plate and 
not on the artichoke, bite off the little succulent bit at the base, 
then with a fork remove the choke to the pile of leaves at side 
of plate, thus leaving the bottom or fond, which is most delicious, 
and may be eaten with the fork. 

139 



140 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

S17> Artichokes Broiled. — Use only the fonds; canned 
fonds (12 in a jar) may be used for this purpose. Sprinkle the 
boiled fonds (those in cans are already boiled) with lemon juice, 
roll in melted butter, and broil 5 minutes. Sprinkle with lemon 
juice again, minced parsley, and paprika, and serve around beef- 
steak, chops, or chicken. They may also be dipped in batter 
and fried, or roasted in pan with meats. 

518- Artichokes in Cream, Entree. — Dice 2 cups of arti- 
choke fonds. Cook 3 tbsps. butter with 3^ cup soft bread 
crumbs, add 1 teasp. minced parsley or chervil, J^ teasp. salt, 
dash paprika and nutmeg, and the artichokes. Toss a moment 
and add IJ^ cups cream. When boiling add 1 teasp. lemon 
juice and a little of the grated rind, and serve in bread crou- 
stades or in ramekins or in Swedish timbale cups. Or they may 
be put in a buttered dish, covered with buttered crumbs, and 
browned in the oven and served with meats or poultry. 

519- Artichokes Fried. — Marinate 6 fonds an hour, drain 
and dip in batter and fry in hot fat. Drain and serve with beef- 
steak, chops, etc. 

520- Artichokes in Ramekins, Entree. — Place canned 
fonds in dishes or small casserole, cover with cooked green peas 
and diced carrots, dust with salt and pepper, add 1 teasp. but- 
ter and 1 tbsp. water to each, cover with buttered paper and 
cook in hot oven 10 minutes. Pour over each a spoonful of 
Veloute Sauce (755), and serve. 

521. Artichokes Roasted. — Place the boiled or canned 
fonds around a roast of lamb or veal 20 minutes before the meat 
is done, baste often with Meat Essence to glaze them, and serve 
around the meat. 

522. Artichokes Stuffed, Entree. — Boil 6 artichokes, 
remove centre leaves and the choke, put a spoonful of either of 
the following mixtures in each one, replace leaves, draw them 
well together, and serve. Fillings : Creamed chicken, lobster or 
sweetbreads, and place artichokes in oven until hot; minced 
tongue mixed with minced truffles and mushrooms tossed in 
butter, cooled, and enough mayonnaise to hold the mixture, and 
serve very cold. 

523. Asparagus, Entree. — Immerse 3 small or 2 large 
bunches in water, leaving an inch of tips out of the water. Boil 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 141 

15 to 20 minutes, drain on a perforated tin, cover with several 
old napkins and let steam 5 minutes, and serve on toast with 
tips covered with any of the following sauces: Black gutter 
with Braisle, Hollandaise, or Asparagus sauce. Or serve cold 
with Vinaigrette Sauce (773) in place of the salad. 

524. Asparagus Fried. — Use only an inch or two of tip 
end, boil until tender, drain, and egg and crumb, or dip in batter 
and fry in hot oil, and serve with meats, etc. 

525. Asparagus in Rolls, Entree. — Add 2 cups boiled 
asparagus tips to sauce, fill small French rolls or popovers which 
have been scooped out, buttered inside and out, and browned in 
oven. Sauce.— Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 2 of flour, add 5€ cup 
asparagus liquor, 3^ cup cream mixed with 1 yolk, salt, pepper, 
dash nutmeg, and 1 teasp. lemon juice. This is very good made 
with 1 cup of asparagus and 1 cup cooked green peas. 

526. Bean Croquettes, Entree. — Boil lima beans until 
tender, drain, and mash them. To 2 cups of the puree add 2 
beaten eggs, salt and pepper, and enough cream to soften; cool, 
and shape. Crumb, egg and crumb, cool, and fry in deep fat, 
and serve with tomato sauce. 

527. Beans, Red Kidney. — Method 1 . — Soak 2 cups beans 
over night, boil until tender, drain, and saute a few at a time in 
bacon fat until they are crisp. Turn on hot dish, sprinkle with 
minced parsley, onion juice, paprika, and 1 tbsp. of lemon juice. 
Method 2. — Use canned red kidney beans, heat, and serve 
sprinkled with parsley and lemon juice and dusted with paprika. 
Method 3. — Saute in butter 3 tbsps. green pepper, place on 
hot dish, and toss the boiled beans or canned beans in the pan 
until lightly colored, and add to pepper. 

528. Beans, Red Kidney with Tomato and Pimento 
Puree. — Soak and boil the beans or heat canned beans. Cook, 
2 tbsps. butter with 1 tbsp. minced onion, 1 of minced parsley, 
add ^ cup pimento puree, 1 cup tomato puree, and the beans, 
toss until beans are quite soft, add 1 tbsp. butter, and serve. 

529. Beans, String, Braisle. — String and cut in inch 
lengths and boil 1 qt. of green or butter beans with a bit of 
onion, 3^ teasp. each sugar and salt, and a pinch of soda until 
nearly tender, in very little water with 1 tbsp. butter. Drain, 



142 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

add 2 tbsps. butter, place in oven, and stir constantly until well 
coated with the butter. Serve dusted with salt and pepper and 
covered with 3^ cup of Braisle (789). A few sauted mushrooms 
added to beans is an improvement. 

S30- Beets. — Boil fresh beets until tender, or use canned 
beets, rinse in cold water, slice, and cover them with 1 cup boil- 
ing water mixed with 1 tbsp. vinegar and 2 of sugar. Drain and 
dot with butter and serve at once. 

531. Brussels Sprouts with Chestnuts. — Wash 1 pt. 
sprouts in several waters and cover with salt and water an hour, 
drain, and boil 30 minutes, when nearly done add 1 cup boiled 
chestnuts cut in slices. When done dot with bits of butter, 
dust with salt and pepper, and serve very hot with turkey. 
This may also be covered with Madeira Sauce (727). 

532. Brussels Sprouts with Sausages, Entree. — Pre- 
pare 1 pt. sprouts, and when boiling add 6 or 8 small sausages. 
Cook 10 minutes, take out sausages, and broil them. Drain 
sprouts, place on a dish and surround with the sausages, and 
serve as both meat and vegetable entree at dinner or luncheon, 
or as the main course at a light luncheon. 

533. Cabbage and Apples Vinaigre. — Shave a red cab- 
bage and cook it in a saute pan with a little water, cover, and 
steam. When about half-done make a hole in centre and place 
in 4 or 5 small, tart apples peeled and cored. Fill apple centres 
with sugar, sprinkle over cabbage 2 or 3 tbsps. vinegar, dust 
with salt and pepper, cover, and cook until apples are tender. 
Serve cabbage in dish with apples in centre. Serve with roasted 
goose, duck, or pork. 

534. Cabbage or Cauliflower au Gratin. — Boil cab- 
bage or cauliflower and chop it rather fine. Put it in a buttered 
dish with White Sauce, add yolks of 2 hard-cooked eggs pressed 
through sieve and whites chopped, and 1 tbsp. lemon juice, cover 
with buttered crumbs, dust with grated cheese and paprika, and 
brown in oven. 

535. Cabbage Hot Slaw, German Style. — Shave cab- 
bage fine, rejecting core, and boil 3 cups of it 5 minutes, drain, 
dust with 1 tbsp. each sugar and minced onion. Cook 2 tbsps. 
bacon fat with 1 of flour, add J^ cup vinegar and water, half of 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 143 

each, when boihng pour over cabbage, dust with paprika and 
pepper, and serve. 

S36- Cabbage Stuffed, Entree. — Cut out centre of a 
hard, small cabbage, fill with the stufiing, steam until tender, and 
serve with HoUandaise Sauce, Plain (722). Stuffing. — Mince 
}/2 lb. lean beef, add J^ teasp. salt, 34 teasp. ginger, same of 
paprika, and 34 cup bread crumbs. Add slowly 1 teasp. corn- 
starch dissolved in 3^ cup milk and more milk to make stuffing 
soft.' 

557. Cabbage with Tomatoes, Entree. — Cut cabbage 
in quarters, remove core, tie together, soak in cold water, then 
boil 3^ an hour uncovered. Drain, cut in small pieces, and place 
in buttered dish in layers alternately with slices of fresh to- 
matoes, dot each layer with butter, and pour over 3^ cup milk 
mixed with 2 beaten egg yolks, cover with buttered crumbs, add 
few drops of lemon juice, and bake in slow oven 20 minutes. 

S38- Carrots in Crearh. — Scrape and cut young carrots 
in thin slices, boil, and drain. To 2 cups of carrots add 3^ cup 
cream cooked a moment with 1 beaten yolk, add minced parsley, 
salt, and pepper. 

539. Carrot Croquettes, Entree. — Boil carrots and press 
through a sieve, to 2 cups add 2 beaten eggs, J^ cup milk, salt 
and paprika, 1 teasp. Worcestershire, and soft bread crumbs to 
mould into shape. Egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat and serve 
with 1 cup green peas cooked in 1 cup Cream Sauce. 

540. Carrots Fried. — Cut small parboiled carrots in halves, 
egg and crumb, and fry in deep fat or cut in long thin strips, dip 
in batter, and fry in the fat. Mash 1 hard-boiled egg yolk with 
1 tbsp. butter, heat and add 1 tbsp. vinegar, and pour over the 
carrots. They may also be diced and sauted in butter. 

541. Carrots Glazed. — Cut carrots in thin slices, boil 
them 15 minutes, put in buttered baking pan, pour over them 
3^ cup Meat Essence (66), 1 tbsp. butter, 1 of sugar, and 34 
teasp. salt. Bake, basting often, until carrots are brown and 
well glazed. 

542. Carrots au Gratin. — Cut boiled carrots in slices, lay 
them in buttered dish, cover with Cream Sauce, then with 



144 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

crumbs and grated cheese, dot with butter and dust with pa- 
prika, and bake 15 minutes. 

543. Carrots and Green Pea Puree. — Boil small car- 
rots, cut in small balls with potato cutter. Cook peas seasoned 
with a bit of ham and slice of onion, drain, add a little butter and 
green coloring paste, and press through sieve. Mould in centre 
of platter or put through potato ricer, add cream sauce to car- 
rots, and pour around. 

544. Carrots with Poulette Sauce. — Cut boiled car- 
rots in thin small slices, while hot pour over 1 tbsp. butter, toss 
a moment, serve in dish, and pour over Poulette Sauce (707), to 
which add 1 tbsp. lemon juice and a dusting of paprika. 

545. Cauliflower Braisle. — Soak cauliflower in cold 
water, head side down, an hour or more, boil and drain it, sprin- , 
kle with a few drops of vinegar, dust with salt and pepper, dot 
with butter, and cover with 3^ cup of Braisle (789). 

546. Cauliflower Fritters. — Break cauliflower in small 
pieces, soak in salted ice-water an hour, drain, and boil until 
nearly tender in equal parts of milk and water. Drain, cool, 
and sprinkle with French dressing, and put away until very 
cold. Dip in batter and fry in deep fat, dust each piece with 
Parmesan as soon as taken from fat. 

547. Celery Braised. — Clean and cut the best parts of 
celery in 4-inch lengths, boil 15 minutes, drain, and rinse in cold 
water. Scald 1 slice of salt-pork dice, drain, rinse in cold water, 
drain again, and place it on bottom of porcelain-lined pan, 
sprinkle with 1 tbsp. diced onion and 2 of diced carrot, lay the 
celery on this, cover, and place in oven until celery is dry. Cover 
with much reduced white stock or Meat Essence and cook, un- 
covered, basting often until it is well glazed and tender. T?ake 
up celery, reduce gravy and pour over, and serve very hot. 

548. Celery Fried. — Boil inch lengths of celery 15 minutes 
in salted milk and water until tender, drain, rinse in cold water, 
dry, dip in batter, and fry in deep fat. Serve with HoUandaise 
Sauce (722). 

549. Cucumbers Boiled. — Pare and cut them in long 
strips, boil until tender, about 10 minutes, drain, and place on 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES \45 

strips of toast. Cover with Maitre d'H6tel Sauce. Or with 2 
tbsps. butter cooked with 1 of flour, 1 cup of the cucumber liquor, 
1 tbsp. lemon juice, 1 of pimento puree, and 2 of cooked green 
peas. To restore green color to cooked cucumbers, add a little 
sap green-vegetable coloring liquid or paste. 

S50' Cucumbers Fried. — Peel and cut them in l^r^i^^^ 
strips, soak in salted ice-water with 1 tbsp. vinegar an hour, 
drain, roll in cornmeal mixed with flour and salt and pepper, 
or dip in batter, to which add 1 tbsp. vinegar, and fry in oil until 
crisp. 

551. Cucumbers au Gratin. — Peel and cut them in large 
dice, soak in ice-water, drain, and lay them in a buttered dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot with butter, cover with but- 
tered crumbs, and bake 3^ an hour. Fresh tomatoes, green pep- 
pers, or a little minced ham may be added. 

552. Cucumber Stuffed en Surprise, Entree. — Peel 
6 small, rather thick cucumbers, cut off ends, and with an apple 
corer scoop out centres from each end. Stuff with bread crumbs 
soaked and mixed with minced ham, lamb, chicken, or sweet- 
breads seasoned with onion, parsley, salt, and pepper. Roll 
each one in cheese-cloth, place in casserole, cover with stock, 
cover, and cook 3^ an hour. Remove cloth, place on a dish, 
thicken sauce in casserole, add a little Madeira or Worcester- 
shire, and pour over the cucumbers. 

553. Cucumber Timbales, Entree. — Boil cucumbers 
until soft enough to press through a sieve, add 3^ cup soft bread 
crumbs to 2 cups of the cucumber, and 1 tbsp. lemon juice. Add 
to 1 tbsp. butter cooked with 1 of flour arid 3^ cup of the cucum- 
ber liquor, and 2 yolks slightly beaten, season with salt, pepper, 
dash nutmeg, and a little onion juice, add the stiffly beaten 
whites, fill buttered moulds lined with soft crumbs or minced 
ham, and bake in pan of water 15 minutes. Serve with Holland- 
aise Sauce, Plain (722). 

554. Egg-plant Croustades, Entree. — Cut a large plant 
in inch-thick slices, press an hour, cut with biscuit cutter, re- 
move centre, leaving a box }/^ an inch thick. Cook 1 tbsp. 
butter with 1 of onion and 1 of parsley, add the remaining plant 
minced fine, salt, and paprika, and fill the croustades. Cover 



146 FHE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

the entire tops with buttered crumbs and bake J^ an hour. 
Serve with Madeira or Tomato Sauce. 

555. Egg-Plant or Summer Squash Fried — French 

Straws. — Cut plant or squash in 3^-inch slices, press an hour, 
wipe dry, and cut into J^-inch strips of equal length, roll in 
equal parts of cornmeal and flour seasoned with salt, nutmeg, 
and paprika, and fry a few at a time in hot oil. 

556. Egg-PIant Fritters. — Method 1. — Boil the plant 
until nearly tender, when cold cut in 3^-inch slices, then in disks 
or diamonds, dip in cream mixed with 2 beaten yolks, salt and 
pepper, dust with flour, and drop in hot oil until brown. Dust 
with Parmesan mixed with paprika, and serve. Method 2. — 
Cut slices in rounds with biscuit cutter, roll in cornmeal and 
flour seasoned with salt and pepper, brush top side of half of 
them with beaten egg, dust well with grated cheese and paprika, 
press the others on these like a sandwich, dip in batter, and 
fry in oil. 

557' Egg-Plant au Gratin. — Slice and press the plant, 
cut it in small squares, lay them in buttered dish lined with soft 
crumbs, dot each layer with bu'tter, dust with salt and pepper, 
cover with buttered crumbs, and dust with paprika and grated 
cheese. Bake ^2 ^t^ hour. Fresh tomatoes may be used for 
alternate layers, or minced ham or tongue, and serve as an en- 
tree. 

558. Egg-Plant Souffle. — Bake an egg-plant and mash 
pulp, add pepper, salt, dash cayenne, and nutmeg, J^ cup cream, 
1 tbsp. minced parsley, a dash of onion salt, and 3 eggs beaten 
separately. Beat until very light, turn into a buttered dish, 
cover with buttered crumbs, and bake. Grated cheese may be 
added to crumbs. 

559. Egg-Plant Stuffed, Entree. — Cut a large plant in 
two lengthwise, scoop out inside, leaving J^-inch shell. Mix 
J^ cup bread crumbs with J^ cup minced chicken, lamb, veal, 
or ham, J^ cup pulp, salt, pepper, and dash nutmeg, or minced 
celery, add 1 beaten egg and stock to moisten. Fill shells, cover 
with buttered crumbs, place in pan with 1 cup stock and ]/2 
cup white wine, or a little lemon juice, and bake 1 hour. Serve 
with the following sauce: Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 1 of flour, 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 147 

add 1 cup liquor from pan, and 1 tbsp. sherry. Tomatoes, green 
peppers, or nuts may be used instead of meat. Parmesan 
cheese may be sprinkled with the crumbs. 

560- Endive Braised, Entree. — The imported French 
endive is popular as a vegetable as well as a salad; it may be 
cooked like celery or by the following especial recipe: Cook 
3^ lb. of the endive in well-reduced stock until tender, in a 
baking pan in oven, basting often. Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 
1 of arrowroot, add 1 cup of the stock, 3^ teasp. of good table 
sauce, and J^ teasp. of caramel, and pour over the endive. 
Serve as an entree or with meats. 

561. Green Corn Fritters. — Score 6 ears of corn and 
scrape from cob with back of knife. To 2 cups add 2 beaten 
egg yolks, 1 tbsp. butter, J^ teasp. salt, dash pepper, 34 cup 
flour sifted with 3^ teasp. baking-powder, and the stifily beaten 
egg whites. Drop from spoon into very hot fat, or saut^ in 
small spoonfuls in a hot spider in 1 tbsp. each of lard and butter. 
Drain and serve at once. If liked add 2 tbsps. minced par- 
boiled green pepper to mixture. 

562. Green Corn au Gratin, Entree. — Method 1. — 
Cook in 2 tbsps. butter, 1 teasp. minced onion, and 1 of green 
pepper, add 2 tbsps. flour, 3^ teasp. salt, 2 cups rich milk, 2 cups 
corn scraped from the cob, and 2 beaten eggs. Turn into but- 
tered dish, cover with bread crumbs rolled in butter, and place 
in oven until brown. Method 2. — Score and scrape corn from 
6 ears or use 2 cups canned corn, add 3^ cup crumbs, 1 tbsp. 
soft butter, 1 teasp. sugar, 3^ cup cream, 3^ teasp. salt, dash 
pepper, and a beaten egg. Fill buttered baking dish or rame- 
kins, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake 20 minutes. Minced 
green or sweet red pepper may be added if liked. 

563. Green Corn Timbales, Entree. — Scrape 2 cups 
com from ear, add J^ cup cream, 3 slightly beaten yolks, 1 teasp. 
butter, 3^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne and mace, 34 cup soft 
crumbs, and the whites beaten stiff. Fill buttered moulds lined 
with boiled spaghetti or spft bread crumbs, bake 20 minutes in 
pan of water on paper and covered with buttered paper, turn 
out, and serve with sauce. Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 2 of flour, 
add 1 cup stock, salt, pepper, and 1 cup fresh tomatoes chopped 
rather fine and drained. 



148 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

564. Green Peas in Cream or Butter. — Wash before 
shelling, shell, and boil pods 15 minutes in 2 cups of water, drain 
and add peas, without washing them, to water, with 1 teasp. salt, 
3^ teasp. sugar, and a few sprigs of spinach. Cook }/2 an hour, 
drain, and cover them with J^ cup hot cream and 1 tbsp. butter, 
dust with salt and paprika. Or cook them 15 minutes in water, 
drain, and finish cooking in fresh butter. The butter may be 
used again. 

565. Green Peas in Croustades, Entree. — Cook 2 
cups peas with sprig of mint and 3^ teasp. each salt and sugar. 
Cook 1 cup cream with 1 tbsp. butter, little salt and pepper, add 
to 3 beaten yolks, cook a moment, and add the drained peas and 
fill Bread Croustades. One-half cup boiled and diced carrots and 
a few drops of lemon juice may be added to the peas. 

566. Green Peas in Lettuce. — Remove centre from a 
large head of lettuce, saving it for salad, fill with 3 cups of un- 
cooked peas, dust with salt and pepper, and add 1 tbsp. butter 
and 2 lumps of sugar. Tie leaves together, place in stewpan 
with very little water, cover, and steam 3^ an hour. Turn out 
on a dish, season with butter and cream, and serve without the 
lettuce. Or lettuce may be chopped and served with the peas. 

567. Green Pea Puree. — Boil 3 cups or a can of peas with 
a tiny piece of ham and slice of onion, press through colander, 
add 1 tbsp. butter, 3^ teasp. sugar, 3^ teasp. salt, dash pepper, 
and milk to soften. Color to a natural green, put through hot 
potato ricer, and serve. 

568. Green Pea Titnbales, Entree. — Boil and mash 
peas, add butter and seasoning, and 2 beaten yolks. Fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites, turn into buttered and garnished tim- 
bale moulds, and bake 10 minutes. Serve with Cream Sauce 
filled with 1 cup diced and boiled carrots. 

569. Japanese Crowns. — These are imported and quite 
delicious, having the flavor of both artichokes and asparagus. 
They may be boiled and served as a salad or cooked in the fol- 
lowing manner. Wash well and boil 1 lb. of them in salted 
water 10 minutes, drain, dip in Batter, and fry in deep fat, and 
serve with meat: Or boil 15 minutes, and serve in ramekin 
dishes with Cream or Hollandaise sauce as an entree. A tbsp. 
of minced green or sweet red pepper may be added. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 149 

S70- Kale Boiled. — Wash well in several waters and follow 
methods for cooking spinach. 

S71' Kohlrabi au Gratin. — Use only tender upper half 
of the tubers, pare, and boil until tender, break in small pieces, 
add Cream Sauce, to which add ]/2 cup cream mixed with 1 
beaten yolk. Fill deep dish, cover with buttered crumbs and 
grated cheese, and place in oven until brown. 

S72- Lettuce Braised. — Wash and shake well the lettuce, 
tear it in shreds, and cook it in bacon fat, in which a slice of 
onion has been cooked. Dust with salt, pepper, and dash 
nutmeg, add 2 tbsps. Madeira or weak vinegar, cover, and 
cook 10 minutes. 

573. Mushrooms Baked. — ^Wash 1 lb. fresh mushrooms, 
remove stems and peel, drop them in 1 qt. of ice-water with a 
little lemon juice until all are peeled. Dry and place in but- 
tered pan, under side up. Put ]/2 teasp. butter, a few drops 
lemon juice, a dusting of salt, pepper, and nutmeg in each, and 
bake J^ an hour. Mince peel and stems, cover with 1 cup 
stock, when boiling strain onto 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of flour 
cooked together, and serve with mushrooms over beefsteak. 

574. Mushrooms Baked under Bells, Entree. — These 
bells are made of fire-proof glass, and they fit the brown nappies, 
which may be bought with the bells. 
Saute 1 lb. peeled mushrooms in 1 tbsp. 
butter with dash salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg 3 minutes. Toast 6 rounds of 
bread the size of nappies, spread with 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, lay them on 
the nappies, cover with mushrooms, 

pour over them 1 cup warm cream, put on the bells, and bake 
20 minutes. Serve, removing bells at table. The flavor thus 
conserved is delicious. 

575. Mushrooms Baked with Oysters, Entree. — 

Saute large peeled mushrooms 5 minutes, lay them in buttered 
pan, put an oyster in each, add bits of butter, dust with salt, 
pepper, and minced parsley, and bake until oysters are cooked. 
Place on toast on hot plate, pour over them Port-wine Sauce 
(741), or make sauce from liquor in pan, adding a little cream. 




150 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

S76' Mushrooms Broiled, Entree. — Dip large peeled 
mushrooms in oil or melted butter, dust with salt and paprika, 
and broil them. Serve on toast spread with butter and the 
small mushrooms and stems minced fine and sauted in butter, 
and cover with a spoonful of Mattre d'Hotel Sauce (763). 
Chicken livers sauted and mashed may also be spread on the 
toast, or pate de foie gras. 

577. Mushrooms Deviled and Broiled. — Cook as 
above, adding 1 teasp. mustard, plenty of paprika, and 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice to butter in which they are dipped, broil and serve 
aroimd steaks or chops. 

578. Mushrooms, Creamed for Ramekins, etc., 
Entree. — Saute 1 lb. mushrooms in butter until nearly tender, 
add to Cream Sauce, and serve in ramekin dishes or pat^ cases. 
Season sauce with nutmeg or onion juice and Worcestershire. 
They may be covered with Braisle (789) when serving. 

579- Mushrooms Creamed a la Poulette, Entree. — 

Saute the mushrooms slowly in butter, cover and let them steam 
until tender, dredge with flour, cook a moment, add J^ cup each 
chicken stock and cream, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 
and when boiling add 2 yolks beaten with 3 tbsps. cream. Serve 
on toast, in nappies or on dish surrounded with triangles of puif 
paste. 

580- Mushrooms and Pimentoes in Croustades, 
Entree. — Saute 3^ lb. mushrooms with J^ cup shredded pi- 
mento, or sweet red pepper, in butter, sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
onion, and lemon juice, fill hot Bread Croustades, and garnish 
with minced chervil or parsley and dust with paprika. 

SSI- Mushroom Cutlets, Entree. — Mince 1 lb. fresh 
mushrooms, add 1 tbsp. butter, little salt, and pepper, J^ teasp. 
minced onion and parsley, and cook until soft with 1 or 2 tbsps. 
Meat Essence or stock. Add 1 beaten egg and soft bread crumbs 
to make stiff enough to form, turn out on a shallow buttered tin, 
and when very cold form into small cutlet shapes, egg, crumb, 
and fry, and serve with Marsala Sauce (728) as an entree or as 
a garnish to entrees. 

582. Mushrooms au Gratin, Entree. — Peel 1 lb. mush- 
rooms, mince stems and small pieces, cover with stock an hour. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 151 

then simmer ^ hour. Parboil mushrooms a moment in water 
and a little lemon juice, rinse in cold water, dry, and toss in but- 
ter 2 minutes. Lay them in a buttered shallow dish, add J^ cup 
soft bread crumbs, dust with salt and pepper, and place in oven 
for 5 minutes. Fill dish with Madeira or Brown Sauce made 
with the prepared stock, cover with buttered crumbs, brown, 
and serve in dish. This may also be made with Cream Sauce 
and grated cheese added to crumbs. 

583. Mushroom Puff-Bails. — These are very large and 
are often called beefsteak mushrooms, and they weigh from 1 
to 10 lbs. each. They are peeled, cut in slices, and cooked after 
the following methods: To Bake. — Spread a slice of puff-ball 
1}/^ inches thick with 2 tbsps. butter, dust with salt and pepper, 
add 1 cup stock and 1 tbsp. sherry, and bake in well-buttered 
pan J^ an hour. Cut in fillets and serve with liquor from pan 
poured over. To Broil. — Broil a slice of puff-ball ^ inch thick 
in greased broiler close to fire, spread with butter, dust with 
salt and pepper, pour over 1 tbsp. white' wine or vinegar, 1 
teasp. Worcestershire, and'J^ teasp. paprika. To Fry or Saute. 
— Cut the slices in J^-inch cubes, dip in batter, fry in deep 
fat, or roll them in flour mixed with cornmeal and saut^ in 
butter, and serve as a garnish. 

584. Mushroom Puree. — ^Mince J^ lb. fresh or canned 
mushrooms and saute in bacon fat with a slice of onion or shal- 
lot, add 1 tbsp. stock; cook J^ an hour, and moisten with cream; 
season well and press through a sieve in a mound, or through 
the potato ricer, or into tiny moulds, and reheat and serve with 
meat or poultry. 

585. Mushrooms Stuffed, Entree. — Select 6 of the 
largest mushrooms, chop the remainder with the stems, and add 
to 2 tbsps. soft bread crumbs, 2 minced truffles, salt, paprika, 
and dash nutmeg. Fill the large mushrooms with this and 
saute them in butter, filled side up, until tender, place on rounds 
of bread toasted on under side only, and pour over them 13^ 
cups hot cream. Minced ham may be spread on the toast. 

586. Mushrooms Stuffed with Pate de Foie Gras, 
Entree. — ^Fill as above with the minced mushrooms, without 
truffles, and moisten with stock and 1 beaten yolk. Lay them 
on a well-buttered pan in hot oven until tender, place a very 



152 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

cold slice of pate de foie gras on each, and serve in round cases 
of Near Puff Paste (1220). 

S87. Mushroom Titnbales, Entree. — Saute 1]/^ cups 
minced mushrooms and stems in 2 tbsps. butter browned with 
slice onion, add 1 cup White Sauce, J^ cup soft bread crumbs, 1 
tbsp. minced pimento, J^ teasp. salt, and 2 beaten yolks. Cook 
a moment and fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Fill buttered 
moulds lined with Chicken Forcemeat or with sweet red and 
green pepper in strips close together, bake in pan of water 15 
minutes, and serve, if very small, around meats, or larger as 
an entree with truffle or Bechamel Sauce (700). 

S88- Onions Boiled, with Sauce. — Soak 8 small Ber- 
muda onions in 1 qt. ice-water with 1 tbsp. each sugar and salt 

1 hour. Drain and boil until tender, about ^ of an hour, chang- 
ing the water once. Drain well and cover with the sauce. Cook 

2 tbsps. butter with 1 of flour, add 1 cup hot water, 4 tbsps. 
tarragon vinegar reduced to 2, dash nutmeg, little salt and pa- 
prika. Take from fire and add to 2 beaten yolks mixed with J^ 
cup warm water and 1 tbsp. butter. Pour over onions and dust 
with paprika. 

589. Onions, French Fried. — Slice onions rather thin 
and soak in ice-water with sugar and salt 1 hour. Drain and 
dry and cover with warm salted milk ]/^ an hour. Drain again, 
roll in flour mixed with cornmeal, and fry, a few at a time, in 
deep fat. Dust with paprika and serve. 

590. Onions au Gratin. — Boil onions until quite tender, 
changing water once. Put in a buttered baking dish, cover 
with Cream Sauce and buttered crumbs, and bake until brown. 
A little grated cheese may be added to the crumbs and thick 
cream used instead of cream sauce, if preferred. 

591. Onions Sauted. — Boil young onions until nearly ten- 
der in salted water, drain dry, and saute in 3 tbsps. butter with 
1 of sugar until brown, and serve on beefsteak. They should be 
small; 

592. Onions Souffle, in Moulds. — Boil 6 or 8 onions 
twice, adding sprig of parsley the last time. Drain and chop 
fine, add 1 tbsp. butter and 1 of flour cooked with 1 cup cream 
and 1 beaten yolk, J^ cup soft bread crumbs, little salt, paprika, 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 153 

and 3 egg whites beaten very stiff. Fill buttered moulds and 
bake in pan of water 10 minutes. Turn out and serve around 
meats, covered with Tomato Cream Sauce, if served with meats 
having no sauce. 

593- Onions Stuffed, Entree. — Soak 6 small Spanish 
onions, of equal size, in ice-water with 1 tbsp. each salt and sugar 
an hour or more. Drain and boil 35 minutes, drain, and with a 
very sharp-pointed knife scoop out centres, leaving a thin shell. 
Fill with any of the following stuffings, place on buttered pan, 
and bake until tender, about 25 minutes, basting with stock or 
butter and water. Serve on rounds of toast, and cover with 
a thin Cream, Brown or HoUandaise sauce. Fillings: Sausage 
meat, or boiled and diced beets, or minced chicken, lamb, or 
veal mixed with a little salt pork and minced green or red pep- 
pers, or with minced pecan meats mixed with soft crumbs, 
melted butter, salt, pepper, and minced parsley. Cover with 
Braisle (789) and serve hot around meats or as an entree. 

S94. Okra with Tomatoes. — Wash and cut okra pods in 
inch lengths, boil 20 minutes, and drain. Stew 2 cups tomato 
with 1 tbsp. minced onion and 1 of green pepper. Saut^ okra 
a moment in bacon fat, add tomatoes, and serve. 

595' Oyster Plant Fried or Stewed. — Boil the plant 
in salted water until nearly tender, drain and scrape, and cut in 
inch lengths, crumb, egg and crumb, or dip in batter and fry in 
deep fat. Or serve with a thin Cream Sauce, to which add a 
dash nutmeg and paprika. 

596' Parsnip Fritters. — Scrape young parsnips and soak 
them in cold water an hour, drain, and boil 40 minutes. Cut 
them into 3<i-inch-thick slices lengthwise, dip in batter, and fry 
in deep fat. 

597- Peppers, Green, Broiled, or Sauted. — Cut pep- 
pers in quarters, remove seeds, and broil until edges curl and 
they begin to turn dark, or saute them in butter and serve with 
beefsteak or chops. 

598- Peppers, Green, Stuffed, Entree. — The stuffed 
pepper may be used as an entree or as a vegetable with meats, 
etc., but when filled with any mixture containing meat it 
should be served as an entree. Wash and wipe the peppers, re- 



154 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

move stems, cut a piece from the top, remove seeds and mem- 
branes, and boil 5 minutes, if to be filled with uncooked mixture. 
If not to be baked, they may be boiled until tender, but not soft. 
Plunge in cold water, drain, and fill with any of the following: 

1. Mix boiled rice with tomatoes, add a little butter and salt, 
and bake in stock. Make a Brown Sauce of the stock, pour it 
around the peppers, and sprinkle with minced parsley. 

2. Scrape 2 cups corn from the ear, add 1 teasp. minced 
onion, 2 tbsps. minced pimento sauted in butter, 1 or 2 ripe 
tomatoes, chopped and drained, and a little salt. Bake in a 
little water, when nearly done place a small slice of ripe tomato 
on each pepper, cover with buttered crumbs, and return to oven 
until brown. Serve without sauce. 

3. Add boiled cauliflower, and carrot dice or peas to Cream 
Sauce, fill boiled peppers, cover with crumbs, dot with butter, 
and brown. Or use cauliflower alone, cover with soft crumbs 
and grated cheese, and dot with butter and brown. 

4. Mix boiled asparagus tips with bread crumbs, a little but- 
ter, mushroom catsup, salt, lemon juice, dash nutmeg, and cream 
to soften. Fill boiled peppers, cover with Braisle (789), and 
serve. 

5. Mix 2 cups boiled red kidney beans with 2 tbsps. butter, 

1 of tomato catsup, and 34 teasp. salt. Fill boiled peppers and 
bake in little water mixed with bacon fat and baste often. 

6. Mix minced chicken or veal with soft bread crumbs, fresh 
tomatoes, mushrooms, or a little minced ham, add dash of 
savory herbs, parsley, lemon juice, and stock to moisten. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and bake. Serve with Cardinal Sauce 
(751) made with stock from pan. 

7. Saute a little sausage meat, pour off excess of fat, add same 
amount of bread crumbs, fill parboiled peppers, and bake in a 
little stock or water. Thicken liquor with butter and flour, add 

2 tbsps. Madeira wine or sherry, and pour around peppers. 

8. Mix 6 chopped hard-boiled eggs with 6 pimolas minced 
fine and 1 cup cream cooked with 2 beaten yolks, season with 
salt, pepper, and 1 tbsp. sherry. Fill peppers, cover with but- 
tered crumbs, and place in hot oven a few moments. 

599. Peppers, Sweet Red, or Pimentoes, Baked, 

Entree.— Follow directions for green peppers, fill with soft bread 
crumbs mixed with sauted mushrooms, a little butter and cream, 
and bake, covered with buttered crumbs. Serve without sauce 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 155 

if with meats, or with Tomato Cream Sauce (752), and serve as an 
entree. 

600. Peppers, Sweet Red, Stuffed and Fried, Mexi- 
can Style, Entree. — Fill the boiled peppers with minced and 
cooked beef and with half the amount of chopped raisins and 
nuts, using almonds, pecans, or English walnuts. Dip them in 
batter and fry in hot oil, drain, and serve with a spoonful of 
chilli sauce on each. 

601. Pepper, Sweet Red, or Pimento Timbales, En- 
tree. — ^Drain canned pimentoes, plunge in cold water, and drain 
again. Line buttered timbale moulds with the pepper, fill with 
boiled rice or samp, crumb, and bake 10 minutes, and serve with 
Cream or Bechamel Sauce. 

602. Potato Balls. — Cut raw potatoes in balls with a cut- 
ter, or cut them in olive shape, boil in salted water or well- 
seasoned stock 10 minutes, drain, roll in melted butter, and 
place in hot oven until brown. Or cut new potatoes in ball 
shape with a corrugated knife, boil and drain them, roll in egg, 
and brown in oven, and serve them with Maitre d'H6tel Sauce. 
Or roll the balls in egg and in grated cheese, and put in oven 
until hot. 

603. Potatoes Baked in Slices. — Peel and cut in thin 
slices 6 raw potatoes, holding them together while slicing, tie 
with a string, place in buttered pan, pour over 2 tbsps. melted 
butter, dust with salt and pepper, and bake slowly, basting and 
turning until quite brown. Remove string after placing them 
around meat. 

604. Potatoes Boiled with Egg Sauce. — Cover new 
potatoes with boiling water, old ones with cold water to boil. 
When boiled, drain and cover with a folded towel and a tin cover, 
and place on back of stove to keep hot and dry. Or boil 2 cups 
potato in large balls or cubes in salted water 10 minutes, drain, 
and add 1 cup milk, and cook in double boiler. Serve either with 
sauce poured over. Cream 2 tbsps. butter, add 1 beaten yolk, 1 
tbsp. lemon juice, 1 of minced parsley, little salt, and pepper. 

605. Potatoes Boiled with HoUandaise Sauce. — 

Cut new potatoes with a corrugated knife in uniform size, boil 
in salted water with bit bay leaf, celery stalk, sprig mint, and 



156 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

piece of lemon rind, drain, and cover with Hollandaise Cream 
Sauce (720), and dust with minced parsley. 

606. Potato Olives Boiled, with Tomato Butter.— 

Cut potatoes in olive shape, boil, and cover with the sauce. 
Cook 3 fresh or 3^ can of tomatoes with 4 tbsps. butter, add 
salt, paprika, and 1 teasp. of arrowroot or cornstarch softened 
in a little water, and cook until sauce is thick and smooth. Add 
tiny pinch of salt and press through a sieve. 

607. Potatoes Broiled. — Boil potatoes without peeling, 
cool, peel, and cut in J^-inch slices, brush with melted butter and 
broil them. Spread with creamed butter mixed with salt, pa- 
prika, minced parsley, and chives. 

608. Potatoes Creamed. — Cut raw potatoes in inch cubes, 
parboil 3 minutes, and drain. Saute them, a few at a time, in 
butter until brown, pour over the sauce, and sprinkle with 
minced parsley. Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 1 of flour, add a few 
drops onion juice, J^ cup milk, salt, pepper, and when boiling 
add 1 yolk mixed with J^ cup cream. 

609. Potatoes Creamed in Cups. — Chop 2 cups boiled 
potatoes rather fine, add salt, pepper, dash nutmeg, and ^ cup 
cream, and turn into small buttered cups and place in hot oven 
for 25 minutes. Turn out and serve around beefsteak or chops. 
They should have a golden brown crust. Finely grated cheese 
may be dusted over the potatoes after they are taken from the 
cups and placed in oven or under the gas fiame until slightly 
melted. 

610. Potatoes Creamed Vienna Style. — Boil new, un- 
peeled potatoes in very little water and plenty of salt, cool, peel, 
and cut in thin, round slices, cover them with hot cream, and 
cook in shallow pan on top of stove until cream thickens; add 
salt, pepper, a bit of mace, cook a moment without stirring, add 
2 tbsps. cold cream, remove mace, and serve.' 

611. Potato Croquettes or Boulettes. — ^Press 2 cups 
steamed hot potato through sieve, add 1 tbsp. butter, J^ teasp. 
salt, dash cayenne and celery salt, and either minced parsley 
and onion, or grated cheese, or coarsely minced pecan meats. 
Beat well and add 2 beaten yolks and 2 or 3 tbsps. cream, turn 
out to cool, and form into pyramids or boulettes. Roll in the 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 157 

egg white beaten with a Httle water, then in flour or very fine 
crumbs, or crushed corn flakes, and fry in deep fat. 

612. Potato and Green Pepper Croquettes. — ^Pre- 
pare as above, adding 3 tbsps. finely minced green pepper to the 
mixture. 

613. Potato Croquettes en Surprise, Entree. — Fol- 
low recipe for Plain Croquettes (611), before forming in shape 
spread a portion in the hand, fill with creamed chicken, fish, 
peas, or sauted peppers, fold together and form into cylinder 
shape, and fry. 

614. Potato Croustades with Ham and Eggs, Entree. 

— Peel large raw potatoes of uniform size, cut them in halves 
lengthwise, cut a small slice from rounding side to make them 
stand, scoop out centres, and fry in deep fat 10 minutes. Fill 
with minced ham mixed with tomato sauce, leaving room to add 
an egg, dust with grated cheese, pepper, and salt, dot with but- 
ter and place in oven until eggs are cooked. Serve covered with 
Tomato or Madeira sauce. 

615. Potato Croustades with Green Peas.— To 3 cups 
warm mashed potato add 2 tbsps. butter, 3 beaten yolks, salt, 
and pepper. Turn into a buttered shallow pan 2 inches deep, 
when cold cut with a deep oval cutter into cakes. Roll in egg 
white diluted with water and in crumbs, cut an incision an inch 
deep all around 3^ inch from edge, fry in deep fat, scoop out 
centres, and fill with creamed green peas. 

616. Potato Eggs Baked with Cream. — Cut new pota- 
toes in small egg shapes, soak in cold water an hour, drain, dust 
with cornmeal, salt, and pepper, and fry in deep fat until they 
begin to brown, drain, brown them in the oven, and serve cov- 
ered with Cream Sauce dusted with minced parsley, cress, or 
paprika. 

617. Potatoes Baked, Franconia. — ^Peel and soak rather 
new potatoes an hour in cold water, boil 10 minutes, lay them 
around meat that is roasting, and bake until brown, about J^ 
an hour, basting often. 

618. Potatoes, French Fried. — Plain. — ^Peel and cut in 
small wedge shape raw potatoes, soak in cold water an hour, 



158 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

drain, dry between 2 towels, roll in fine cornmeal dusted with 
salt, and fry, a few at a time, in deep fat. Julienne. — Cut in 
match-like strips. Lattice or Spieal. — Cut with a lattice or 
spiral potato cutter. O'Beian. — Cut in large dice, plunge them 
in the hot fat until beginning to color, drain, dry, and saut^ 
them in butter, with shredded sweet red or green pepper, until 
brown. 

619' Potatoes au Gratin, Delmonico Style. — Cut 

boiled potatoes in thin slices, place in buttered dish in layers with 
a dusting of cheese between each layer, cover with a thin White 
or B&hamel sauce, and with buttered crumbs and cheese, and 
bake until brown. Hard-boiled eggs may also be used with the 
potatoes. 

620. Potatoes Lyonnaise. — Saute 2 small sliced onions 
in 2 tbsps. bacon or ham fat until soft, add 2 cups cold potato 
dice, and toss until hot but not brown. Add 1 tbsp. minced 
parsley, drain from fat, dust with salt and pepper, and serve. 

621. Potatoes Baked in Muffin Rings (Potatoes 

Anna). — Pare and cut potatoes with a corrugated cutter in 
cylinder shape about the size of a silver quarter, slice them very 
thin, soak in ice-water an hour, dry and dip in melted butter, and 
fill buttered mufiin rings on a buttered pan, and bake 25 min- 
utes. Turn ring and potatoes and bake 15 minutes, place 
around meat, and remove rings. 

622. Potato Puree with Carrots. — Boil, mash, season, 
and press 2 cups potato. Boil carrots in water ten minutes, 
drain, and cook in stock until tender, mash and add little butter, 
cream, pepper, and salt. Press potato through ricer on dish in 
a layer, add a layer of carrot pressed through colander, then 
another layer of potato, and top with a layer of carrot. 

623. Potato Puree au Gratin. — Boil 6 potatoes without 
peeling, peel, and put them in a large double boiler, add }^ cup 
milk and mash them. Cook over a very low fire, and add milk 
from time to time until 13^ qts. have been absorbed, which will 
take a long time. Add 3>^ cup butter, little salt and pepper, turn 
into a buttered dish, cover with buttered crumbs and grated 
cheese, and bake until brown. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 159 

624. Potato Puree Roses. — Press 2 cups hot mashed 
potato through ricer, add 2 tbsps. butter, salt, paprika, dash 
celery salt, and 3 beaten yolks. Beat with a fork and press 
thtough a pastry tube on buttered paper in the form of roses. 
Brush with the egg whites slightly beaten with 1 tbsp. water and 
brown slightly in oven. Remove with a spatula and place 
around fish or meat. 

625' Potato Puree with Tomato. — To 2 cups mashed 
potato add J^ cup hot tomato puree, beat with a fork, and put 
through a tube and serve around meats. 

626' Potato Puree en Surprise. — Arrange lightly small 
mounds of mashed potato on a serving dish, press an opening 
in top of each, in this put grated cheese mixed with a little soft 
butter and cream, or use creamed peas or carrots, cover top with 
more of the potato, brush with beaten egg diluted in water, dust 
with grated cheese and paprika, and place in hot oven until 
brown. 

627. Potato Puree Olives, Viennese Style.— Add 2 
tbsps. butter, J^ cup cream, little salt, 3^ cup. grated cheese, and 
2 beaten yolks to 2 cups mashed potato, and form into shape of 
large olives. Brush with egg white and cool. Brush again 
with the egg white mixed with milk, with a small brush tint the 
tops with a little egg yolk, and place in oven until nicely colored. 

628' Potato Puree Souffle or Duchesse. — Add to 2 

cups hot mashed potato 2 tbsps. butter, 3 of cream, salt, cay- 
enne, celery salt, and nutmeg, and beat with fork, and fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. Press through a potato ricer 
in a light mound, brush with beaten egg, brown in oven, and 
sprinkle with finely minced water-cress and serve. 

629' Potatoes Sauted with Cream Sauce. — Parboil 2 
cups potato dice, drain, and saute them in butter until brown 
and tender. Cover with 1 cup Cream Sauce seasoned with meat 
extract and a little good table sauce. 

630' Potato Curls Sauted. — Cut potatoes with a curler 
cutter, parboil, and brown in hot butter. 

631' Potatoes Sauted, Hash Browned. — Chop 2 cups 
potatoes quite fine^ add salt, pepper, and 1 teasp. butter. Have 



160 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

a little very hot bacon fat in saute pan, press potatoes in firmly 
and smoothly in a thin layer, add 2 tbsps. hot cream or milk, 
cover, and cook, 10 minutes. When brown crust is formed on 
the bottom turn it over like an omelet and serve. Minced 
parsley may be added if liked. 

632. Potatoes Sauted, Spanish Style. — Add to 2 cups 
boiled potatoes chopped fine J^ cup minced green pepper and 
1 tbsp. minced onion, and saute in bacon fat as for Hashed 
Browned (631), turn, and serve garnished with slices of sautM 
tomato and fried parsley. 

633. Potatoes Scalloped, German Style, Entree. — 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in J^-inch slices, then in rounds the 
size of a fifty-cent piece, lay them in buttered dish, sprinkle with 
minced ham or tongue and parsley, repeat until dish is full, 
using a large shallow dish and having but 2 layers. Cover each 
layer with Allemande Sauce (695). Put remainder of potato 
through coarse sieve, cover the potato disks, dot with butter, 
and brown in oven. 

634. Potato Souffle Baked. — Add to 2 cups mashed 
potato, 3 beaten yolks, 3 tbsps. cream, salt, pepper, and pa- 
prika, and beat well with a fork, fold in the stiflSy beaten whites, 
and bake in buttered dish and serve in dish. 

635. Potato Souffle Fried. — Select Dutch potatoes of 
uniform size. Peel and drop in ice-water for an hour, dry 
and cut in rather thin slices, put in ice-water again for an hour, 
dry thoroughly, and drop, a few at a time, in rather hot fat, cook 
5 minutes, slowly, then drain and plunge them into smoking 
hot fat to brown. There should be two kettles of fat. Drain 
and dust with salt, and if done right they will puff up like small 
balloons. 

636. Potato Strips Baked. — Peel and cut raw potatoes 
in J^-inch slices, then in J^-inch strips, soak in salted ice-water 
an hour, dry and lay them on a buttered shallow pan, pour over 
them 2 tbsps. melted butter, dust with salt and paprika, and 
bake until they are light brown. They should be placed on pan 
in one layer. 

637. Potatoes Stuffed and Baked. — 1. Brush with oil 
and bake medium-sized potatoes, cut slices from top while hot, 
remove the inside and mix it with 2 tb.ips. butter, salt, pepper, 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 161 

and 1 well-beaten egg white, fill the shells, cover with buttered 
crumbs and grated cheese, and brown in hot oven. Or omit 
cheese and add minced parsley and broiled bacon dice, or 
minced nuts, to potato. The potato may be put in shell through 
a pastry tube in the form of roses, then brushed with butter, 
and browned. 

2. Prepare potatoes as above, and mix creamed fish seasoned 
with Worcestershire with the potato. 

3. Cut raw peeled potatoes in two lengthwise, scoop out in- 
side, leaving a thin shell. Fill with minced raw beef mixed with 
butter, tomato catsup, parsley, onion, salt, and pepper, or fill 
with sausage meat, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake in 
1 tbsp. hot water and 2 of butter, basting often, 3^ an hour. 
Serve for luncheon or as an entree. 

4. Peel 6 small potatoes, cut pieces from top, scoop out and 
fill with minced and seasoned chicken, dip edges in egg white, 
replace top, and bake in a little stock 3^ an hour, basting often. 

638' Potato Timbales. — To IJ^ cups hot mashed potato 
add 3 tbsps. cream, 2 well-beaten eggs, salt, and pepper, and line 
timbale moulds buttered and garnished with bits of green or 
sweet red pepper. Place on ice an hour or more. Fill with 
minced ham or fish in thick Cream Sauce, place on a cover of 
the potato, and put in hot oven 10 minutes. Serve with Brown 
Sauce. 

639- Rice. — To Boil. — Select a good quality of rice; rice 
that is shiny and very white is not good. Wash }/2 cup in 
several waters, pour it slowly in 1 qt. of boiling water with 
}/2 teasp. salt, boil briskly, stir lightly with a fork at first, and 
cook 20 minutes. Pour boiling water through it, drain, and 
place in cqlander and in a cool oven to dry. Or do not dry it 
in colander after it is rinsed, but add 2 cups stock and cook in 
double boiler until stock is absorbed. It may also be cooked in 
milk. 

640' Rice with Chilli Sauce, Mexican Style. — Boil 
rice with stock and 2 tbsps. butter, little salt, and plenty of pa- 
prika, add 2 or 3 tbsps. chilli sauce, and serve in a mound sur- 
rounded by meat. 

641. Rice Croquettes Savory. — ^Mix 2 cups rice boiled in 
stock with 1 tbsp. tomato pulp, 2 of grated cheese, 1 of butter, 
J^ teasp. salt, 2 drops Tabasco and 2 beaten yolks. Form into 



162 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

croquettes, crumb, etc., and fry in deep fat. Or omit tomato 
and cheese and serve croquettes with Tomato or Cheese sauce. 

642. Rice and Mushroom Croquettes, Entree. — Soak 
J^ cup dried mushrooms over night, boil until tender in the 
water, and strain. Boil J^ cup rice in the water. Drain and 
dry, add 1 tbsp. butter, salt, cayenne, and speck nutmeg, 3^ 
cup fresh or canned mushrooms, and 2 beaten yolks. Form into 
croquettes, crumb and fry, and serve with Mushroom Sauce or 
Sweetbread Sauce. 

643. Rice au Gratin. — Boil 1 cup rice with 2 qts. water, 

1 teasp. salt, 3^ teasp. lemon juice, and 2 tbsps. sugar 20 min- 
utes, drain through sieve, put back on stove, and add enough 
cream to make it rather soft, 1 teasp. vanilla, and steam until 
very light. Put in buttered dish, cover with 1 egg white beaten 
with a very little sugar and a drop or two of vanilla, add very 
fine bread crumbs, and put in oven until a light brown. 

644. Rice Peaches or Pears. — Mix 2 cups warm boiled 
rice with 1 egg slightly beaten, form into peach or pear shape, 
brush with egg white, with a small brush color sides delicately 
with pale pink, put a clove or a real twig in stem end, and place 
in hot oven until delicately tinted. Serve around meats. 

645. Rice Pilaff with Tomato Cheese Cream. — Mix 

2 cups boiled rice with 2 cups stock, J^ cup tomato pulp, 1 teasp. 
minced onion, 2 tbsps. minced ham, 2 of butter, 1 of minced or 
shredded green pepper, a little salt, and cream to make quite 
moist. Cook until rather dry, in a buttered mould in oven, 
turn out and serve with chicken or meat surrounded with the 
sauce. Sauce. — Peel and chop 2 small tomatoes with 4 tbsps. 
grated cheese, 3^ teasp. each French mustard and tarragon 
vinegar, cook a moment, add salt, paprika, and 3^ cup cream. 

646. Rice Ring with Chicken Curry, Entree. — ^Mix 
1 cup chicken stock with 2 cups boiled rice, heat, and add 2 tbsps. 
cream, remove from fire, add 1 beaten egg, turn into a ring mould 
buttered and dipped in milk, and when cold turn out and brown 
in oven. Fill with the Chicken Curry (324) and serve. 

647. Rice Timbales, Entree. — Add 2 tbsps. melted but- 
ter to 1 cup cooked rice, 2 tbsps. pimento puree, salt and pep- 
per, and 1 yolk well beaten. Mix thoroughly, add the beaten 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 163 

white, and fill buttered timbale moulds lined with soft bread 
crumbs. Bake 15 minutes, turn out and serve with Cheese or 
Tomato Cream Sauce. 

648. Rice Timbale Cases. — ^Fill buttered timbale moulds 
with hot boiled rice, or use the hollow dariole moulds. Place in 
oven a few moments, scoop out centres, turn out, and fill with 
creamed meat, fish, or chicken. 

649. Spinach Boiled. — ^Wash spinach in several cold 
waters, letting water run on it from faucet, shake well, and put in 
large kettle with scarcely more water than clings to the spinach; 
add a little salt, a tiny pinch of soda, and boil, uncovered, 10 
minutes. Drain, run cold water through it, squeeze dry, chop 
fine, return to kettle, add a little cream and butter, salt, and 
pepper, and when hot serve garnished with hard-boiled egg 
quarters and lemon slices. 

650. Spinach Cream with Artichokes, Entree. — To 

2 cups boiled spinach add 3^ cup Cream Sauce seasoned with 
parsley, onion, and blade of mace, add 2 tbsps. soft butter, J^ 
teasp. sugar, 2 eggs beaten with 3^ cup cream, and 3 tbsps. 
sherry. ' Turn into very small buttered moulds garnished with 
minced pistachio nuts, and bake in a pan of water, under but- 
tered paper 20 minutes. Turn out onto hot, canned artichoke 
fonds and pour around Bechamel Sauce, seasoned with 1 teasp. 
tarragon vinegar, or serve with Vinaigrette Sauce (773). 

651. Spinach Sauted. — To boiled spinach add 2 tbsps. 
grated cheese, 1 yolk slightly beaten, salt, pepper, dash nutmeg, 
and when hot add the beaten white. Form into egg shape with 
2 spoons and saut^ in butter, and serve with Cream Sauce, to 
which add 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 

652. Spinach Timbales or Croustades. — Mix 1)^ cups 
boiled spinach with 2 tbsps. soft bread crumbs, H cup chopped 
mushrooms sauted in butter, and a sauce made of 1 tbsp. butter, 
1 of flour, 3^ cup cream, salt, dash nutmeg, and cayenne, and 
add 2 egg whites beaten very stiff. Line timbale moulds with 
carrots, turnips, beets, hard-boiled eggs cut in fancy shapes; fill 
with the spinach mixture, poach in the oven or fill bread crou- 
stades with the spinach, brown in oven, and serve with or with- 
out a sauce. 



164 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

653- Squash Creams. — Add to 2 cups baked squash 3 
beaten eggs, 34 cup cream, 2 tbsps. butter, salt, and paprika. 
Turn into buttered moulds and bake in pan of hot water 10 min- 
utes. Serve with Cream Sauce. 

654. Squash au Gratin. — Cut top from a whole Hubbard 
squash and steam until tender, remove inside with a spoon in 
large pieces, mix it with Cream Sauce, to which add 1 teasp. good 
table sauce, fill the shell or put it in a buttered baking dish in 
layers with soft bread crumbs, bits of butter, and dry grated 
cheese. Cover with buttered crumbs and a little of the cheese, 
and brown in oven. If served in the squash shell wrap a napkin 
around its base. 

655. Succotash. — Cook 2 cups lima beans in cold water 
with minced green and red pepper, and boil an hour, or until 
beans are tender. Remove cobs, add 2 cups scraped corn, boil 
15 minutes, add salt, pepper, J^ cup cream, and 1 tbsp. butter. 

656. Sweet Potato Balls Baked. — Put 2 cups raw po- 
tato balls in a buttered, shallow pan, pour over them j^ cup each 
melted butter and maple sirup cooked together, and bake J^ 
an hour, basting constantly. Dust with salt and serve. 

657. Sweet Potato Balls, en Surprise, Fried. — ^To 2 

cups hot baked potato pressed through colander add 1 teasp. 
salt and a tiny pinch of cinnamon, when cool add 1 beaten egg 
and hot cream to soften. Form into small balls, press in the 
centre of each, covering well with the potato, 2 English walnut 
meats pressed into a stoned prune. Egg and crumb, and fry in 
deep fat. 

658. Sweet Potatoes Candied. — ^Parboil peeled potatoes 
10 minutes, cut in slices lengthwise, and place in buttered pan, 
flat side down. Cook ^ cup sugar with J^ cup water and 2 
tbsps. butter. Brush potatoes with this and bake, basting with 
the sirup until sirup is used and potatoes well candied. 

659. Sweet Potato Croquettes. — Mix 2 cups baked and 
mashed sweet potato with 3 tbsps. butter, J/^ teasp. each salt 
and sugar, 1 tbsp. cream, and 2 yolks. Cool and form into cro- 
quettes, crumb, egg and crumb, cool again, and fry. Minced 
and pounded almonds may be added as an improvement. Serve 
with Veloute Sauce (755). 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 165 

660. Sweet Potato Puree. — Boil and mash potatoes, 
beat with a fork, adding a little butter, salt, pepper, and a few 
drops of sherry. This gives it the flavor of chestnuts. Put 
through potato ricer and serve with chops. 

661. Sweet Potato Puree in Casserole. — Mash boiled 
potatoes, add salt, pepper, and a little cream, beat well, turn into 
a buttered dish, pour over 2 tbsps. molasses boiled 2 minutes 
with 1 of butter, and place in oven until brown. 

662. Sweet Potato Souffle. — Follow directions for Po- 
tato Souffle (634). 

663. Tomatoes Baked. — Cut 3 large, firm tomatoes in 
halves and place in buttered baking dish, cover with 1 tbsp. 
minced green pepper, 1 of minced chives, 1 tbsp. butter in bits, 
and dust with salt and pepper; or cover with minced fresh mush- 
rooms, a little shallot, and parsley, and cover with buttered 
crumbs. Bake 20 minutes and serve on toast. Thicken sauce 
in pan, add a little cream, and pour over tomatoes. 

664. Tomatoes Broiled. — Cut firm tomatoes into ^-inch 
slices, dip in French dressing, and place on ice for an hour or 
more. Dust them with flour mixed with cornmeal seasoned 
with salt and paprika, dot with butter, and broil them. Or 
cover them with Parmesan cheese, or any good dairy cheese 
mixed with buttered crumbs, and broil. 

665. Tomato Crescents. — Cook 3^ can tomatoes with 3 
cloves, 1 teasp. sugar, slice onion, J^ teasp. each salt and pa- 
prika 20 minutes, and press through a sieve. Cook 2 tbsps. but- 
ter with 4 of cornstarch, add the tomato with 1 beaten egg, turn 
into a buttered pan to cool. Cut into crescent or diamond or 
heart-shape, crumb, egg and crumb, cool, and fry in deep fat. 

666. Tomatoes Espagnole. — Cook 2 shredded green pep- 
pers and 2 small sliced onions in 3 tbsps. bacon dice until brown, 
add these to a light-brown sauce and keep hot. Add 1 tbsp. 
butter to the remaining bacon fat, and saute until brown 6 or 8 
large slices of tomato, dusted with pepper and salt and rolled in 
flour mixed with a little cornmeal. Serve with sauce strained 
and poured over. 

667. Tomato Fritters of Bread. — Cook J^ can toma- 
toes with salt, pepper, blade mace, 14 teasp. sugar, and 1 tbsp. 



166 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

each of flour and butter cooked together, until rather thick. 
Press through a coarse sieve, add 2 beaten eggs, and pour on 
rounds or cones of stale bread, and let them stand until tomato 
is absorbed in the bread. Crumb the bread and fry in deep 
fat. 

668. Tomatoes Sauted and Deviled. — Saute 6 slices 
tomato 3^ inch thick in butter, place on hot plate, and add to 
the pan 3 hard-boiled egg yolks mashed smooth with J^ teasp. 
each salt and paprika, 1 teasp. each powdered sugar and mus- 
tard, 2 tbsps. tarragon vinegar or lemon juice, and 2 beaten 
eggs. Stir until thick, and pour over the tomatoes, sprinkle with 
the egg whites chopped fine, and serve. 

669. Tomatoes Sauted with Green Peppers. — Cook 
1 tbsp. minced green pepper and 1 tbsp. minced onion with 1 
tbsp. butter, turn into a hot bowl, and saute the tomatoes dusted 
with cornmeal. Place on dish, dot with butter, and pour over 
pepper mixture. 

670. • Tomatoes Stewed. — Stew tomatoes with green and 
sweet red pepper minced and cooked in butter, add a little grated 
onion, and when done add a few soft bread crumbs. 

671. Tomatoes Stuffed, Entree. — Select tomatoes of 
uniform size, cut a piece from the top, scoop out centres with a 
spoon, drain and dust inside with salt and pepper, and let them 
stand upside down 3^ an hour. Fill with any of the following 
mixtures, cover with buttered crumbs or with the tops, and bake 
until tender, about J^ an hour. 

1. Soft bread crumbs softened in stock and seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and 1 tbsp. sherry. Or omit sherry and add grated 
cheese to the crumbs for the top. 

2. Mix 1 cup minced chicken or meat with }/2 cup soft bread 
crumbs, add 2 tbsps. butter, salt, paprika, minced parsley, and 
cream or stock to soften. 

3. Mix 1 cup grated corn with J^ cup soft bread crumbs and 
a little chopped tomato pulp, add 1 tbsp. minced green pepper, 
little salt, 1 tbsp. butter, and cream to soften. Cover with to- 
mato tops and bake. 

4. Mix 1 cup minced game with 3^ cup boiled rice, 1 minced 
truffle, 3 tbsps. gravy or butter, 3^ teasp. curry dissolved in a 
little water, little salt and paprika. 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 167 

5. Mix 1 cup minced ham with soft bread crumbs, minced 
green pepper, salt, and stock to soften. 

6. Mix 1 cup sauted and minced mushrooms with minced 
chicken or sweetbreads, bread crumbs, or boiled rice, add 1 tbsp. 
butter, salt, pepper, and a minced truffle. 

7. Mix 1 cup boiled spaghetti with the tomato pulp, add salt 
and pepper, fill tomatoes, bake, lay them on toast, and cover 
with the following sauce. Rub 2 boiled egg yolks smooth with 
J^ cup cream, 1 tbsp. butter, and 1 of flour cooked with 3^ cup 
milk, cook until thick, and add 2 tbsps. grated cheese, 1 teasp. 
mustard, a little salt and paprika, and a tiny pinch of soda. ' Add 
the egg whites chopped rather fine to the sauce, or they may 
be added to the filling. 

672. Turnips Glazed. — Cut turnips into balls or slices and 
boil 10 minutes. Drain and put them in a buttered baking pan 
and cover with 1 cup of stock seasoned with J^ teasp. each salt 
and sugar, a dash of cayenne and of nutmeg. Bake 3^ an hour, 
basting often, until they are tender and well glazed, place on hot 
dish, add stock in pan to 1 tbsp. each butter and flour cooked 
together, and pour over the turnips. 



MACARONI, SPAGHETTI, NOODLES, AND NUTS 

673. Macaroni with Mushrooms. — Boil and blanch J^ 
lb. macaroni, drain, and return to fire with J^ cup butter and 3 
tbsps. grated cheese, toss with a fork, and add 1 cup canned 
mushrooms cut in slivers and sauted in butter 2 minutes. Toss 
well together, serve on dish, pour over Tomato Cream Sauce 
(752), and dust lightly with Parmesan. 

674. Macaroni or Spaghetti, Spanish Style. — Boil and 
blanch 3^ lb. macaroni. Cook 1 tbsp. onion and 2 of green pep- 
per with 2 tbsps. butter 5 minutes, add 1 cup brown stock and 
]/2 cup tomato pulp, add the macaroni, salt and pepper, turn out 
on dish, and garnish with bits of pimento. 

675. Macaroni with Tomato and Parmesan. — Boil 
macaroni whole, blanch and drain, add 1 cup tomato puree. 
Cook 3 tomatoes with a little minced onion, parsley, carrot, 
celery, 1 teasp. olive oil, 1 tbsp. butter, salt, and pepper. Pour 



M THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

over the macaroni, tossing it well through, and dust with the 
best Italian Parmesan you can buy. 

676- Noodles. — Sift 2 cups flour in a bowl, make a hollow 
in centre, and put in 4 beaten eggs, 1 teasp. butter, J^ teasp. 
salt, and 4 tbsps. cold water. Work in more flour until it is a 
stiff paste and does not stick. Separate in 12 parts, roll each 
one until it is as thin as paper. Spread them out 10 minutes, 
roll them as you would jelly cake, and cut in J/^-inch strips. 
Unroll the strips and dry them. Pack in a box lined with wax 
paper. 

677. Noodles with Braisle. — Add 1 tbsp. salt to 3 qts- 
boiling water, drop in 2 cups of Noodles, slowly, boil 10 minutes, 
drain, and serve in place of vegetable with bread crumbs browned 
in butter sprinkled over. 

678' Noodles with Cheese. — Boil as above and put them 
in layers in a buttered dish with soft bread crumbs, grated cheese, 
and dots of butter, having plenty of cheese and butter on top. 
Fill dish with milk and bake 20 minutes. Serve in the dish. 

679. Noodle and Cheese Nuts.— Add to the Noodle 
mixture before rolling 1 cup of grated and melted dairy cheese, 
squeeze through a pastry bag tube, and cut in inch lengths with 
sharp knife or scissors. Poach in boiling water 5 minutes and 
place in a baking dish' covered with Cream Sauce. Cover with 
crumbs and bits of butter and bake 20 minutes. 

680. Chestnuts in Cream Sauce. — Boil 1 qt. Italian 
chestnuts, after they are peeled and blanched, in water seasoned 
with onion, parsley, and minced celery,, until nearly tender, 
drain and cool, cut in slices or halves, and serve in a rich Cream 
Sauce. 

681. Hazel Nuts in Hollandaise Sauce. — Peel, blanch, 
and boil 3 cups hazel nuts until tender, add a Hollandaise or 
Bechamel Sauce, and flavor with sherry. 

682. Nut Balls Baked with Brown Sauce.— Mix 2 

cups of minced nuts, walnuts or pecans, with 1 cup of cooked 
hominy or any cereal, add J^ teasp. grated onion, 1 tbsp. minced 
parsley or chervil, 3^ teasp. salt, and J/g teasp. paprika, add 1 
beaten egg, form into small balls, crumb, egg and crumb, dot 



VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE ENTREES 169 

with butter, and bake 20 minutes. Serve covered with the sauce, 
to which may be added mushrooms or tomatoes. 

683. Nut Croquettes. — Mix % cup soft bread crumbs 
with 1 cup milk and boil 3 minutes, add ^ cup coarsely minced 
nut meats, 3^ teasp. salt, pepper, paprika, and little onion and 
1 large beaten egg, adding more milk if necessary. Cool, form 
into small croquettes, roll in crumbs, cook again, and fry in deep 
fat. Serve with Tomato Cream Sauce (752) for a luncheon in- 
stead of meat. 

684. Nut Loaf. — Mix 2 cups soft bread crumbs with 1 cup 
minced nuts, 2 beaten eggs, 2 tbsps. melted butter, 1 teasp. salt, 
paprika, and pepper, 1 teasp. savory herbs, 1 teasp. minced 
parsley and onion, and 3^ cup milk. Turn into a shallow but- 
tered pan, dot with buttered crumbs, and bake 3^ hour. Serve 
with Brown Sauce and in place of meat. 

685. Nuts and Mushrooms. — Saute a little onion in but- 
ter, add 1 cup sliced mushrooms, cook 5 minutes, add a little 
more butter, and 1 tbsp. flour, cook a moment, and add 1 cup of 
cream and 1 cup of minced pecans or English walnuts. Serve in 
ramekins or in puff -paste patties or Swedish Timbale Cases (806). 

686. Nut Timbales. — Line buttered moulds with bits of 
pimento and thin disks of boiled macaroni, then with bread 
crumbs, and fill with 1 cup minced nuts mixed with 2 eggs beaten 
separately, J^ cup bread crumbs, 1 cup of cream, salt, and pep- 
per. Bake in hot water on paper 20 minutes. Turn out and 
serve with Cream Sauce. 

687. Pecan and Potato Croquettes. — Mix IJ^ cups 
pecans broken in small pieces with same amount of potato 
mashed with 2 beaten egg yolks and seasoned with salt, pepper, 
minced parsley, a grating of onion, and a dash of nutmeg. Form 
into croquettes, crumb, egg and crumb, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with HoUandaise Sauce (720) mixed with asparagus tips or 
green peas. 

688. Spaghetti Cutlets. — Add 2 cups boiled and blanched 
spaghetti to this sauce. Cook 2 tbsps. butter, add 3 of flour, add 
IM cups thick Tomato Sauce made with well-reduced stock, J^ 
cup grated cheese, 2 tbsps. pimento puree, salt, and paprika if 
needed. Turn into shallow buttered pan 3^ inch thick. When 



170 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

very cold, cut into cutlet shape, crumb, egg and crumb, and fry 
in deep fat. Serve with salad, or with a Cream Sauce as a lunch- 
eon dish. 

689. Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce. — Boil J^ lb. spa- 
ghetti with slice onion, 3^ bay-leaf, 2 cloves, }/2 teasp. salt, and 3 
peppercorns, drain, place in large dish, add 34 cup hot oil or 
melted butter, toss with a fork, add Tomato Sauce, or 1 cup to-' 
mato pulp and juice, sprinkle with 3^ cup dry, grated cheese 
and put in oven until very hot, and serve in dish. 




The four following sauces are the basis of nearly all hot 
sauces, and these, with the addition of more flour, are also 
used for many soups and entrees. 

Method. — Cook fat until bubbling, add flour and cook 
until well mixed, add liquid and seasonings, and simmer 
slowly from 5 minutes to an hour. Skim, strain through 
sieve or a tammy cloth, return to fire,, beat with a spiral 
beater 3 or 4 minutes, add butter, and take from fire at 
once. Browned flour does not thicken quite as much as 
white flour, cornstarch thickens nearly twice as much, and 
bread flour thickens more than pastry flour. Use bread 
flour for all the following recipes unless cornstarch is sug- 
gested. 

690- Brown Sauce. — Melt 2 tbsps. butter, add 2J^ tbsps. 
flour, when quite brown add 1^ cups stock and the desired sea- 
sonings. Boil, skim, strain, and add 1 tbsp. butter. The sea- 
sonings are salt, pepper, and any of the following to harmonize 
with the food with which it is to be served. Celery, onion, pars- 
ley, cloves, bay-leaf, thyme, tomato, dried mushrooms, leeks, 
caramel, diced ham or bacon, or Madeira wine or sherry. If a 
strong sauce is desired cook 3 cups of stock in an uncovered ket- 
tle until reduced one half. 

691. Brown Sauce, to be Kept on Hand. — Cook }/^ 
cup flour with }>4 cup butter until brown, add }4 cup tomatoes, 
2 tbsps. dried mushrooms, and 1 qt. strong stock. Boil until 

171 



172 



THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 




somewhat reduced, skim and strain, and when cool pour into 
glass jars, and when cold cover with melted paraffin. A little of 
this may be added to White or Cream Sauce, or it may be diluted 
with hot water and used as a brown-sauce foundation, or it, 
with a little caramel, may be added to soup to give substance and 
color. 

692. Cream Sauce. — Method 1. — For ordinary purposes. 
— Melt 2 tbsps. butter slowly, add 2 tbsps. flour, cook until 

blended but not oily, add 
13^ cups milk or cream 
and salt, pepper, bit of 
onion, parsley, and celery, 
or a dash nutmeg. Cook 
10 minutes, skim, strain, 
and add 1 tbsp. butter 
and serve. Method 2. — 
For weak digestions. — Sim- 
mer 1 cup milk with 
seasonings 10 minutes, add 
2 tbsps. flour or IJ^ of 
cornstarch or arrowroot 
dissolved in J^ cup cold milk, and simmer 20 minutes. Strain 
and add 2 tbsps. butter. Cornstarch and arrowroot are more 
delicate than flour. 

693. Hot Water Sauce (Drawn Butter). — ^Proceed as 
for Cream Sauce, either method, using hot water instead of milk. 

694. White Sauce. — ^Proceed as for Cream Sauce, using 
White or Chicken Stock instead of milk. If a slightly yellow 
sauce is desired, brown the flour slightly. 

695. AUemande Sauce. — Add to Veloute Sauce (755) 
3^ cup cold white stock, 1 egg yolk, 1 teasp. lemon juice, and 
1 tbsp. mushroom catsup. Remove from fire and add 2 tbsps. 
cream and 1 of butter. 

696. Anchovy Sauce.— Add to Hot Water Sauce (693) 
1 teasp. Anchovy Paste or Essence, }/2 teasp. Worcestershire, and 
1 tbsp. butter. 

697. Asparagus Sauce. — Add to 3 beaten yolks }4 cup of 
the water in which asparagus has been boiled, 1 tbsp. parsley. 



SAVORY SAUCES 173 

blade mace, salt, pepper, and J^ cup cream. Cook in double 
boiler 3 minutes, strain, add 1 teasp. lemon juice, and 1 tbsp. 
butter. 

698. Bearnaise Sauce. — Cook slowly in double boiler 3 
yolks, well beaten, with 1 tbsp. water and 1 teasp. butter until 
eggs begin to thicken, then add, one at a time, 4 tbsps. butter, 
beating well between each one. Add }/§ teasp. each salt and 
paprika, take from fire, and add any of the following seasonings, 
and serve warm but not hot. It spoils this sauce to put it on the 
fire again after it is cooked. For beefsteak add 2 tbsps. tarragon 
vinegar and 1 tbsp. of minced tarragon, if at hand, and 1 tbsp. 
parsley, or horseradish, or minced onion and green pepper, 
cooked until reduced one-half and strained. For turkey or 
chicken add minced chervil and tarragon vinegar, and blade of 
mace. For boiled beef or mutton add 3^ cup tomato pulp or 
sauce. 

699. Bechamel Sauce.— Cook 2 tbsps. butter, 2 of flour, 
add little salt, dash nutmeg and cayenne, and 1 cup white or 
chicken stock, and when cooked add 1 yolk mixed with 3^ cup 
cream. Take from fire, strain, and add 1 teasp. lemon juice 
and 1 tbsp. of butter. 

700. Bechamel and Bacon Sauce. — Proceed as above, 
using bacon fat instead of butter, and cook the diced bacon in 
the sauce until ready to serve, then strain and add 1 tbsp. 
butter. 

701. Black Butter (Beurre Noir).— Cook 4 tbsps. but- 
ter until brown, add 1 tbsp. minced parsley and 1 of vinegar, 3^ 
teasp. Worcestershire, and a few drops of onion juice, and serve 
with sauted eggs; or add anchovy essence, capers, and J^ cup 
of Meat Essence (66), and serve with boiled celery. 

702. Bread Sauce for Game. — Scald and keep hot, but 
not boiling, for 3^ an hour 2 cups milk, 2 cloves, a little onion 
salt and celery salt, 1 sprig parsley, blade mace, 3^ teasp. each 
salt and paprika. Strain and add 3^ cup soft bread crumbs, and 
simmer 3^ an hour. Take from fire, add 2 tbsps. butter, and 
serve 1 spoonful on each bird; cover with browned crumbs. 

703. Caper Sauce. — Add to Hot Water Sauce 4 tbsps. 
capers, 1 tbsp. caper vinegar, 1 teasp. plain vinegar, and a 
grating of onion. Serve with boiled mutton. 



174 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

704' Champagne Sauce. — Make Brown Sauce with an 
extra tbsp. flour, add 1 teasp. sugar, 3 cloves, 1 tbsp. minced 
pimento, and strain, reheat, and when ready to serve add 1 cup 
American champagne. Serve with boiled or baked ham. 

705. Cheese Sauce. — ^To Cream Sauce add 1 cup grated 
dairy cheese, }/2 teasp. each mustard and Worcestershire, and 
1 yolk mixed with J^ cup cream. When cheese is melted strain 
and serve. Serve with fish or eggs. 

706. Cucumber Sauce. — To HoUandaise Plain Sauce 
(722) add 1 cup minced cucumber and 1 tbsp. vinegar. Serve 
with fish. 

707. Chicken Sauce. — Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 1 of flour, 
add salt, cayenne, 1 cup hot chicken stock, 1 cup chicken, minced 
or cut in dice, 1 tbsp. parsley, and 2 yolks beaten with 34 cup 
cream. Serve with sweetbreads. 

708. Chestnut Sauce. — Cook 2 tbsps. chicken or turkey 
fat with 2 of flour, add sa,lt, pepper, 1)4, cups chicken or turkey 
stock, 1 cup boiled and mashed chestnuts, and 1 tbsp. tomato 
catsup or pulp. Serve with turkey or chicken. 

, 709. Chive Sauce. — ^To Brown Sauce add 2 tbsps. minced 
chives after it is strained. Serve with boiled beef or mutton. 

710. Claret Sauce. — ^To Brown Sauce add 1 teasp. each 
minced chives and parsley and J^ cup claret. Serve with veni- 
son or beef. 

711. Currant Jelly Sauce. — ^To Brown Sauce add 4 tbsps. 
currant jelly, same of port or Madeira wine, and 3^ teasp. grated 
onion. Serve with game. 

712. Currant Jelly and Mint Sauce. — Melt 1 cup cur- 
rant jelly and add 1 cup minced mint and serve warm, but do 
not cook it. Serve with lamb chops. Add grated rind of 3^ an 
orange and serve with game. 

713. Curry Sauce. — ^To White Sauce add 1 teasp. grated 
onion and 2 teasps. curry dissolved in a Uttle water. Serve with 
boiled chicken. 

714. Diable Sauce. — Cook 1 minced onion and 2 tomatoes 
in a little butter or drippings, add 1 tbsp. tarragon vinegar, ^ 



SAVORY SAUCES 175 

teasp. curry, }/2 teasp. French mustard, and 2 cups beef stock. 
Simmer until reduced one-half, add 2 tbsps. butter, color red, 
and add capers and tiny sliced gherkins. 

7 15. Egg Sauce. — To Cream, Hot Water, or White Sauce 
after it is strained add 1 teasp. each parsley and capers, 2 hard- 
boiled egg yolks, chopped, and whites cut in rings. Add 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice, and same of butter. Serve with boiled fish. 

716. Espagnole Sauce. — To Brown Sauce add 1 tbsp. each 
minced ham, carrot, green peppers, celery, and parsley, J^ bay- 
leaf, 2 cloves, blade mace, and 2 tbsps. tomato pulp. Simmer 1 
hour, strain, and add 1 tbsp. butter. 

717. Gherkin Sauce. — Cook 1 cup stock with 2 slices salt 
pork diced, 1 tbsp. each onion and parsley, and 1 teasp. sugar. 
Add to 2 tbsps. butter and flour cooked together, add salt, pep- 
per, Worcestershire, and lemon juice. Strain and add J^ cup 
gherkins or pickled cucumbers cut in shreds and dash nutmeg. 
Serve with fish. 

718. Green Pepper Sauce. — Cook ^ cup tomato with 1 
cup minced green pepper, and add to 1 tbsp. butter cooked with 
1 of flour, add salt and 1 tbsp. vinegar, and take from fire. Add 
3^ cup fresh cucumber dice and serve at once without straining. 

719. Hollandaise Rich Sauce. — Beat 4 egg yolks until 
thick, add slowly J^ cup cold water, cook in double boiler beat- 
ing constantly, and adding, a little at a time, J^ cup butter 
creamed. When thick add slowly 3^ cup boiling water, and the 
seasonings cooked until reduced one-half. Seasonings: Two 
tbsps. tarragon vinegar or lemon juice, J^ teasp. grated onion, 
1 teasp. minced parsley, small blade mace, 3^ teasp. salt, and J^ 
teasp. paprika. Strain through cloth. If to be used with fish 
use vinegar, if meats use lemon juice, if vegetables use half of 
each. 

720. Hollandaise Cream Sauce. — ^Follow recipe for 
Hollandaise Rich Sauce, using but J^ cup hot water, 3 tbsps. 
butter, and add, when, ready to serve, 34 cup hot cream. Good 
to serve with chicken. 

721. Hollandaise Orange Sauce. — Follow recipe for 
Hollandaise Rich Sauce, using lemon juice and the juice and 
grated rind of 1 blood orange. Serve with asparagus. 



176 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

722. Hollandaise Plain Sauce. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter 
and 1 of flour, add 1 cup hot water, when boiling pour onto 2 
well-beaten yolks, return to fire, and cook, beating constantly 
until thick. Add slowly the seasonings in No. 719 and 1 tbsp. 
butter. Serve at once. Use for vegetables. 

723. Hollandaise Sauce with Stock (Colbert Sauce). 

— Cook 1 cup chicken or white stock with 1 teasp. flour, softened 
in little cpld water, 10 minutes, pour onto 2 well-beaten yolks, 
return to fire, cook, beating constantly until it begins to thicken, 
strain, and add 1 tbsp. butter, J^ teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. parsley, 3^ 
teasp. tarragon vinegar, and same of minced tarragon and chives. 
Dust with paprika and serve with chops or chicken. If any of 
these sauces curdle, beat vigorously with spiral beater and they 
will become smooth. 

724. Horseradish Sauce. — Cook slowly in double boiler 
3 minutes 4 tbsps. grated horseradish, 4 of soft bread crumbs, 
.1 teasp. sugar J^ 'teasp. salt, same made mustard, '%. teasp. 
paprika, and 2 tbsps. vinegar. Add 1 cup Hot Water Sauce 
and serve without straining. Serve with boiled beef. 

725. Lobster Sauce. — Add to Hollandaise Sauce, plain or 
rich, 1 cup diced lobster and 2 drops Tabasco. Serve with fish. 

726. Lobster and Oyster Sauce. — Make 1 J^ cups stock 
from fish bones, lobster shells, and oyster liquor, adding 2 slices 
onion, J^ of a tomato sliced, 1 tbsp. mushroom catsup, J^ teasp. 
each salt and paprika, and blade of mace. Strain onto 2 tbsps. 
butter cooked with 2 of flour, add 3^ cup each lobster dice and 
oysters cut in small pieces, and 1 tbsp. tarragon vinegar. Color 
red, add another tbsp. butter. Serve with fish timbales. 

727. Madeira Sauce. — ^To Brown Sauce after it is strained 
add 1 tbsp. each minced ham and celery, a very little minced 
pimento, strain, and when serving add 1 tbsp. butter and J^ cup 
Madeira wine. 

728. Marsala Sauce. — Saute with a slice of diced bacon 
a little minced carrot, onion, shallot, and parsley, add 2 whole 
peppers, 2 cloves, bit of thyme, and 1 tbsp. butter. Add 2 tbsps. 
flour, and cook until slightly brown, add IJ^ cups strong stock 
and 2 tbsps. tomato pulp. Simmer 15 minutes, strain, and add 
2 tbsps. Marsala wine. 



SAVORY SAUCES , 177 

729' Marrow Sauce. — To Brown Sauce add 1 tbsp. each 
minced onion, lemon juice, claret, and butter, strain, and add 
J^ cup of beef marrow, which has been parboiled in stock and 
cut in cubes. 

730. Mint Sauce. — ^Pick leaves from 1 bunch mint, chop 
fine, add J^ cup boiling water and 1 tbsp. sugar. Cover and 
keep warm for 3^ hour. Add 2 tbsps. vinegar and J^ teasp. each 
salt and paprika. Serve warm, but not hot. 

731. Mousseline Sauce. — Cook 3 beaten yolks in double 
boiler and add in tiny bits 2 tbsps. butter; when thick add 3^ cup 
hot cream, take from fire and add salt, paprika, 1 teasp. lemon 
juice, and dash nutmeg. Fold in 2 egg whites beaten very stiff. 
Serve with timbales, vegetables, or fish. 

732. Mushroom Brown Sauce. — To Brown Sauce add 
^2 lb. fresh mushrooms sliced very thin and cooked in butter a 
moment, or add J^ cup stock in which 1 tbsp. of dried mushrooms 
have been soaked and cooked and strained. Add 3^ a baked 
sour apple and a dash nutmeg. Canned mushrooms may also 
be used if cut in very thin slices and 1 tbsp. mushroom catsup 
or Worcestershire. Strain and add 2 tbsps. sherry and the 
fresh or canned mushrooms. 

733. Mushroom White Sauce. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter, 2 
of flour, add 1 cup chicken, white or fish stock, and when boiling 
add 3^ lb. fresh mushrooms sliced thin and sauted in butter. 
When ready to serve add 1 tbsp. white wine and J^ cup cream. 

734. Mustard Sauce. — To Brown Sauce add 1 tbsp. each 
French mustard and vinegar, 3^ teasp. celery salt, }4, teasp. of 
onion salt, 1 teasp. sugar, J^ teasp. salt, and dash cayenne. 
Serve with beef. Or cook 2 tbsps. butter with 2 of made mus- 
tard, add 1 teasp. tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper, and when 
serving add 2 tbsps. cream, and serve with kidneys stewed or 
broiled. 

735. Olive Sauce. — To Brown Sauce add 1 doz. stoned 
olives boiled 10 minutes in stock and 1 teasp. grated onion. 

736. Onion Sauce (Sauce Soubice). — To Brown or Hot 
Water Sauce add 2 large onions which have been boiled, drained, 
and chopped, a blade of mace, 3^ teasp. sugar, and J^ cup cream. 
Strain and serve. 



178 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

737' Orange Sauce. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 2 of flour, 
add ^ cup stock, J/^ teasp. made mustard, 3^ cup currant jelly, 
3^ cup red wine, little salt and paprika, the juice of 1 orange, and 
the shredded peel boiled in two waters until tender. Strain, add 
1 tbsp. butter, and serve with game. 

738. Oyster Sauce.— To White or Hot Water Sauce add 1 
cup oysters cut in small pieces, the oyster liquor, 1 tbsp. Worces- 
tershire or Brand Sauce, and 1 tbsp. butter. Serve with fish. 

739. Pepper Sauce. — To Brown Sauce add 1 tbsp. minced 
green pepper, same of sweet red pepper, 1 teasp. parsley, 4 cloves, 
a clove of garlic, 2 peppercorns, and 2 tbsps. vinegar. Simmer 
J^ an hour, strain, and serve. It may be garnished with the 
minced pepper. 

740. Piquante Sauce. — To Brown Sauce add 1 tbsp. each 
plain vinegar, tarragon vinegar, onion, gherkins, capers, olives, 
and mushrooms, all minced fine. Add 3^ teasp. sugar and serve. 
Or melt J^ cup butter, add 3 tbsps. lemon juice, 1 tbsp. each 
sweet red and green peppers minced, and 2 slightly beaten yolks. 
Cook a moment, strain, and serve. 

741. Port Wine Sauce. — To Brown Sauce add 1 tbsp. each 
Worcestershire, mushroom catsup, onion, parsley, J^ bay leaf, 
J^ a small carrot minced, and simmer 15 minutes. Strain and 
add J^ cup port wine. 

742. Ravigote Sauce. — To White or Hot Water Sauce add 
3^ cup white wine, 1 tbsp. each tarragon vinegar, minced shal- 
lots, chervil, tarragon leaves, and chives. Strain and add 1 
tbsp. butter. 

743. Red Sauce. — To 1 cup of very thick Cream Sauce add 
4 tbsps. chilli sauce, 3^ teasp. each English or French mustard, 
curry powder, celery salt, and paprika, add a grinding of black 
pepper, and enough more paprika to make sauce very red and 
quite sharp. 

744. Robert Sauce. — To Brown Sauce add 1 tbsp. each 
minced onion, vinegar, sour apple dice, and 1 teasp. French mus- 
tard. Serve, unstrained, with pork chops or tenderloin. 

745. Russian Sauce. — To Cream Sauce add 3^ cup horse- 
radish and 3^ teasp. paprika. 



SAVORY SAUCES 179 

746. Shrimp Sauce. — To Hot Water Sauce add 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice, 2 drops Tabasco, and 1 cup shrimps broken in small 
bits. Serve with fish. 

747. Sorrel Sauce. — Cook 3^ cup minced sorrel in 3 tbsps. 
butter, add IJ^ cups hot water, J^ teasp. salt, and dash cayenne. 
Add slowly to 2 beaten yolks and serve, without straining, with 
veal. 

748. Spanish Sauce. — ^To 1 cup Brown Sauce add 1 teasp. 
beef extract or a beef tablet, 2 fresh minced mushrooms, ^ 
teasp. sugar, and 3 tbsps. sherry. Color red. 

749. Supreme Sauce. — To White Sauce add 3^ cup white 
wine and simmer 15 minutes. Add 2 yolks beaten with }/2 cup 
cream, strain, and add 2 trufl3es minced fine. Serve with chicken 
or sweetbreads. 

750. Tomato Sauce. — ^To 1 cup Brown Sauce add 1 cup 
tomato pulp cooked J^ hour with cloves, bay leaf, and blade 
mace. Or cook 2 slices salt pork or bacon, diced, with 1 tbsp. 
each onions, carrots, celery, and parsley, add 2 tbsps. flour, and 
brown slightly, add ^ cup stock or water, same of tomato pulp, 
add clove of garlic, 2 peppercorns, and 3^ teasp. each salt and 
sugar, and simmer 3^ hour. Strain and add 1 tbsp. butter. 

751. Tomato Sauce (Cardinal). — Cook with 1 cup of 
clear chicken or beef consomm^, 1 cup tomato juice, 3^ a sliced 
shallot or onion, little salt, paprika, bit bay leaf, and 1 teasp. 
lemon juice or tarragon vinegar. Cook until well reduced, add 
2 tbsps. rice flour or arrowroot dissolved in 3^ cup cold water, 
simmer 10 minutes, strain, color red, and add 1 tbsp. sherry. 
Strain through tammy, and serve with rice or boiled and sliced 
tongue. 

752. Tomato Cream Sauce. — Make Cream Sauce; cook 1 
cup tomatoes J^ hour with parsley, celery, bay leaf, mace, onion 
or garlic, 2 cloves, and 2 peppercorns. When ready to serve 
blend the two, add 3^ teasp. sugar, J^ teasp. soda, and strain. 

753. Transparent Sauce. — Make Hot Water Sauce, using 
arrowroot instead of flour, and dissolve it in 2 tbsps. sherry or 
white wine, cook 10 minutes, add 2 tbsps. butter. 



180 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

754. Truffled Mushroom Sauce. — To White Sauce add 
1 jar of truffled mushrooms, cut in slivers, or 1 cup of fresh or 
canned mushrooms and 2 minced truffles. Add 3^ cup cream, 
1 tbsp. butter, and serve with chicken or sweetbreads or turkey. 
Do not cook canned mushrooms more than 5 minutes. 

755. Veloute Sauce. — Cook 3 tbsps. salt pork fat with 3 
of flour, add salt, cayenne, nutmeg, and parsley, and thyme or 
mushroom parings. Cook a moment, add IJ^ cups white stock, 
and simmer 1 hour, skimming often. Strain, add about 3^ cup 
hot cream, or enough to make the sauce the right consistency. 
Add 4 drops lemon juice. 

756. Veloute Wine Sauce. — To Veloute Sauce add claret 
or white wine instead of cream, and omit lemon juice. If to 
serve with fish, use fish stock and add 2 tbsps. butter. 



COLD SAUCES 

757' Anchovy Sauce. — To 1 cup mayonnaise add 2 tbsps. 
anchovy paste, 1 of minced pa,rsley, grating of nutmeg, and 4 
tbsps. whipped cream. Serve with fish. 

758. Celery Sauce. — Beat 2 yolks, add 1 teasp. sugar, J^ 
teasp. each salt and French mustard, 2 drops Tabasco, and 1 
tbsp. each lemon juice and tarragon vinegar. Cook in double 
boiler, add J^ cup hot cream, 1 teasp. gelatine softened in 2 
tbsps. water and 2 tbsps. creamed butter. Remove from fire, 
beat with spiral beater, add 2 stiffly beaten whites, 1 cup 
minced celery, and 3^ cup whipped cream. 

759. Cream Sauce. — To 3 tbsps. mayonnaise add 1 tbsp. 
tarragon vinegar, 1 teasp. made mustard, 2 tbsps. fresh horse- 

' radish, 3^ teasp. salt, J^ teasp. paprika, or dash cayenne. Add 
1 cup whipped cream and place on ice. Serve to cover cold fish. 

760. Cucumber Sauce. — Drain 3^ cup minced cucumber 
}/2 an hour, add 3^ teasp. each salt, minced parsley, and onion, 
and when ready to serve add 1 tbsp. tarragon vinegar and 3^ 
cup whipped cream. Serve with fish. 

761. Egg Sauce. — Rub smooth 1 boiled egg yolk with 13^ 
tbsps. oil and 1 of vinegar, add 1 tbsp. minced parsley, 1 teasp. 




SAVORY SAUCES 181 

onion juice, J^ teasp. salt, J^ teasp. paprika, and 3 tbsps. cream, 
Serve on cold asparagus. 

762. Horseradish Sauce. — To 3 tbsps. grated horseradish 
add 2 of soft bread crumbs, 1 of vinegar, J^ teasp. each salt and 
paprika, and J^ cup whipped cream. Serve with beef. 

763. Maitre d'H6tel Sauce.— Cream 4 tbsps. butter, add 

1 tbsp. minced parsley and same of lemon juice. A tbsp. minced 
chives may be added, also 2 tbsps. minced olives which have been 
boiled 1 minute in sherry. 

764. Mustard Sauce.— To 3 tbsps. cold 
mashed potato add 2 tbsps. oil, 1 of French mustard, 

2 tbsps. vinegar, 3^ teasp. each salt and sugar, and 

3 drops Tabasco. Soften with cream to consistency 
of mayonnaise. 

765. Orange Sauce. — Grate rind of 2 blood 
oranges, add juice and the juice of 3^ lemon, 5 

tbsps. currant jelly, 2 tbsps. sherry, 2 tbsps. sugar, and a little 
salt and cayenne. A little minced mint may be added. Serve 
with roast lamb. 

766. Pepper Sauce. — Shred 2 cups cabbage, add 2 small 
green peppers and 1 sweet red pepper cut in tiny shreds, 1 teasp. 
celery seed, and J^ cup each sugar and vinegar. Serve with fish. 

767. Ravigote Sauce. — Cream J^ cup butter, add J^ 
teasp. mustard, 1 tbsp. each minced chives or shallot, spinach, 
parsley, water-cress, and gherkins. Add 2 tbsps. tarragon vin- 
egar and 1 of anchovy paste. 

768. Remoulade Sauce. — Mash 3 boiled yolks with 2 
tbsps. oil, 1 of vinegar, 3^ teasp. mustard, a clove of garlic, 1 
teasp. minced parsley, little salt, and paprika. Place on ice for 
an hour, remove garlic, and if served with meat add 1 tbsp. 
minced chives, and with fish a few drops of anchovy essence. 

769. Sardine Sauce. — Add to 1 cup mayonnaise 4 large 
sardines, skinned, boned, and mashed. Serve with cold fish. 

770. Tartare Sauce. — Add to 1 cup mayonnaise or 
Cooked Salad Dressing (844) 1 tbsp. tarragon vinegar, 3^ 
teasp. French mustard, 1 tbsp. each minced capers, parsley. 



182 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

gherkins, olives, chives, or onions. Or, when in season, add 
minced fresh cucumbers and horseradish, and omit olives and 
onions. 

771' Tomato Tartare. — Add to Tartare Sauce 3 tbsps. 
diced tomato or cooked pulp. 

772. Tomato Sauce. — Chop 3 large, ripe tomatoes, add 1 
minced onion, 1 sweet green and 1 red pepper, minced, and 1 cup 
minced celery. Drain and squeeze through cloth and add 1 
teasp. sugar, J^ teasp. each salt and paprika, and juice of 1 lemon. 

773' Vinaigrette Sauce. — ^Put in a bowl 6 tbsps. oil, 1 
tbsp. each minced gherkins, parsley, green peppers, beets, tar- 
ragon, and chives. Add 3^^ teasp. salt, J^ teasp. paprika, 1 
clove garlic, and 3 tbsps. vinegar. Add piece . of ice and stir 
with a fork until thick. Remove ice and garlic and serve at 
once. 

774. Vinegar Sauce. — Mix in a bowl with a piece of ice 
5 tbsps. vinegar, 1 of oil, 1 teasp. each minced chives, parsley, 
red pepper, and onion, 3^ teasp. Worcestershire, little salt and 
paprika, and 34 teasp. Tabasco. When thick, remove ice and 
serve. 

FRUIT FRITTERS AND RELISHES 

To Serve viith Meats and Poultry 

Fritters 

775. Batter for Fritters. — Beat 2 yolks, add 3^ cup 
milk or tepid water, add slowly to 1 cup bread flour sifted with 
34 teasp. salt, beat well, and add 1 teasp. olive oil. Let stand 
2 hours. Add the stiffly beaten whites, and if for fruits 1 teasp. 
sugar. If for vegetables use water instead of milk. 

776. Fruit Fritters. — Prepare the different fruits accord- 
ing to the following suggestions, let them stand a half-hour or 
more, dip in the batter, and fry in deep fat.. Drain on soft paper 
and dust with powdered sugar. 

Apples. — Peel, core, and slice 6 tart apples in 3^-inch slices, 
cover with 2 tbsps. powdered sugar mixed with 34 teasp. cinna- 
mon and 1 tbsp. lemon juice. A tbsp. of brandy may be added 
if desired. 



SAVORY SAUCES 183 

Bananas. — Cut bananas in thick strips, cover with 1 tbsp. 
sugar mixed with 2 tbsps. sherry and 1 of lemon juice. 

Elderberries. — Wash ripe elderberries, leaving them on the 
branch, dry and dip in the batter, and serve as a novelty, with 
meats. 

Oranges or Tangerines. — Separate oranges in sections, 
remove seeds without breaking skin, if possible, and dip in the 
batter. 

Peaches, Pears, and Apricots.— Peel and halve peaches or 
apricots, remove stones and fill with brandy mixed with sugar, 
and let stand until peaches have absorbed the brandy. Peel and 
core pears and fill with the brandy. 

Relishes 

777 • Apple Sauce. — Peel, quarter, and core 6 tart apples, 
drop them into a hot sirup made of 3^ cup sugar and J^ cup 
water, add }/% teasp. salt, and cook until tender. Flavor with 
lemon juice and vanilla, or with nutmeg and cinnamon. If to 
be served with wild duck use no vanilla, and orange juice instead 
of lemon. If to be served with roast pork use half the amount 
of sugar. 

778- Apple Croquettes. — Peel, core, and quarter 6 tart 
apples, cook them in a steamer until tender, add J^ cup sugar, 
juice and grated rind of J^ lemon, dash each nutmeg, salt, and 
cinnamon. Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 1 of cornstarch, add the 
apple and cook 2 minutes, add 3 slightly beaten yolks, cook a 
moment, and turn into a buttered shallow pan to cool. When 
cold form into small balls, crumb, egg and crumb, and fry in hot 
fat. Drain, press a dent in top, insert a clove to represent an 
apple stem, and serve warm. 

779' Apples Stuffed. — Make apple sauce with sweet cider 
instead of water, and use maple sugar instead of granulated. 
Scoop red apples into cups, fill with the sauce, and serve cold. 

780' Apple Sauce Made with Cider. — Pare, core, and 
quarter 3^ peCk pound sweet apples, cover with hot water and 
stew them until almost tender, drain, and cover with 1 qt. sweet 
cider, or 1 pt. boiled cider and 1 pt. water, and cook 20 minutes. 
Turn into jars, cover, and use to serve with roast pork or boiled 
ham. It will keep a few weeks. 



184 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

781. Bananas Baked or Sauted.— Peel bananas, remove 
strings, cut in halves, then in strips lengthwise, making 4 pieces 
of each, roll in fine crumbs, lay them in a buttered pan, dot with 
butter, and bake 20 minutes. Or roll them in sugar, lay them in 
a pan with a little melted butter, sprinkle with lemon juice, and 
bake, basting often, until liquid is nearly jelly. To saut^ them, 
roll in sugar, then in lemon juice and sherry mixed, dust with 
flour, and saute in a little clarified butter. Serve with beef or 
lamb. 

782. Banana Croquettes. — Cut bananas in two, even off 
round ends, roll in crumbs, and egg and crumb, and fry in deep 
fat. Use as a garnish for meats. 

783. Cranberry Sauce or Jelly. — Wash 1 qt. berries and 
cover with 3 cups water and cook until just boiling, or until 
the berries crack open, take from fire, add 2 cups sugar and cook 
until tender, pour into an earthen or glass bowl and serve cold. 
Or mince the berries, add water and cook 20 minutes, add sugar 
and cook 5 minutes. The juice and grated rind of a large sweet 
orange may be added just before taking from fire, as it improves 
the flavor. Or cook as above, using but 2 cups of water; when 
done strain into small glass moulds or wine glasses. 

784. Prune Relish. — Soak J^ lb. large prunes over night, 
drain off part of the water, put them in a double boiler, and steam 
until tender; remove stones. Cook ^ cup sugar with J^ cup 
weak vinegar and a few whole spices in a bag until sirup is quite 
thick. Pour over the prunes, and serve with beef a la mode, or 
with roasted guinea chicken. 

785. Pickle Relish. — After using the walnuts from a bot- 
tle of pickled walnuts, fill the liquid with small gherkins, and 
after a week serve them as a relish with cold meats, or to gar- 
nish hors d'cEuvre or salads. 

786. Rice Croquette Apple en Surprise. — Mix 2 cups 
warm-boiled rice with 1 tbsp. butter, 1 egg slightly beaten, 1 
teasp. sugar, }/i teasp. salt, and dash nutmeg. Spread a large 
spoonful in the palm of your hand after dusting it with flour, 
press the rice in a flat round, fill centre with jelly, jam, or thick 
custard, and form into balls, having the jelly completely con- 
cealed. When very cold crumb, egg and crumb, and fry in 



ACCESSORIES AND GARNISHINGS. ETC. 185 

deep fat, or brush them with diluted egg yolk for yellow apples, 
or with the white if desired white, dent top, insert a clove for 
stem, and with a soft brush and much-diluted red coloring liquid 
tint the cheeks of the apples, and bake until quite firm. 



ACCESSORIES AND GARNISHINGS FOR MEATS, 
POULTRY, AND VEGETABLES 

787' Aspic Jelly. — ^Cook 2 qts. clear stock with 1 tbsp. 
tarragon vinegar, or lemon juice, and a few tarragon leaves, if at 
hand, in an uncovered kettle until sufficiently reduced to coat 
a spoon, skim, and strain into a smaller kettle, and simmer gen- 
tly }/2 3-11 hour. Add, if liked, 2 tbsps. of Madeira or sherry wine 
or white wine, and cool. If it does not jelly, melt and add 1 
tbsp. of granulated gelatine dissolved in J^ cup warm water. 
If not clear add egg whites and shell, and when boiling clear, 
pour in a little cold water, and strain. Use for masking cold 
meats, birds, or game, or turn into moulds, or turn into a shal- 
low dish, and when set chop into small pieces and serve with 
cold meats, game, or chicken. If turned in a thin layer in a 
shallow dish, it may be cut into fancy shapes and used as a gar- 
nish. It may also be added to mayonnaise. 

788- Banana Sticks. — Peel the bananas, cut in strips, 
and let them soak in lemon juice for J^ an hour, then stick 
cloves into them. To 2 bananas, enough for 6 persons, add 2 
tbsps. butter and 1 or 2 of sugar. Cover them with claret and 
bake 20 minutes. Serve with beefsteak or chops. 

789. Braisle. — Saute soft bread crumbs in a little butter 
until brown and crisp, and sprinkle them hot over meats, vegeta- 
bles, etc. 

790. Bread Roulettes. — One cup soft bread crumbs 
soaked in J^ cup milk, with a tiny blade of mace, add 1 beaten 
egg, y^ teasp. salt, dash of cayenne, and 1 teasp. minced parsley 
and same of onion. Form into small balls, crumb, egg and 
crumb, and fry in deep fat. 

791. Bread Croustades. — Cut 6 slices of bread IJ^ inches 
thick, then cut into squares, ovals, or rounds, or heart-shape. 



186 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

scoop out the inside, leaving a box. Brush, with melted butter 
and brown in oven, or dip in egg beaten with 2 tbsps. milk and 
fry in deep fat. 

792- Chaud-Froid Sauce. — Cook 3 tbsps. butter with 4 
of arrowroot or flour, add J^ teasp. salt, blade of mace, dash of 
cayenne, 3^ cup strong, highly seasoned, clear stock, and 3^ of 
a cup of cream, in which 1 teasp. of gelatine has been dissolved. 
If a yellow glaze is desired, use less thickening and add 2 yolks 
to the cream. Let cool slightly, and cover meat or vegetables, 
and put on ice until it sets, if a brownish color is desired, add 
1 tbsp. of caramel to the sauce when hot. 

For a red sauce use tomato pulp instead of cream, and add 
to the color with coloring liquid. Add 2 tbsps. sherry to red 
sauce. 

793- Chicken Forcemeat. — Melt 1 tbsp. butter, add J^ 
cup soft bread crumbs, 3^ cup minced chicken, 3^ teasp. salt, 
dash cayenne and nutmeg, 2 beaten yolks, and 1 cup cream or 
chicken stock. 

794. Cucumber Garnishings. — Cucumber Cups. — 
Cut large cucumbers, without peeling, into inch slices, scoop out 
the inside, thus forming cups. Fill with tartare or ravigote sauce 
and serve with fish. Or peel them with a corrugated cutter and 
proceed as above. 

Fancies. — ^Peel and cut cucumbers in 3^-inch slices, cross- 
wise. With a small sharp knife cut around the slices as in peeling 
an apple, then puU them out in a spiral shape. 

Cucumber Flowers. — Cut J^-inch strips of peel from the 
cucumber lengthwise, leaving on each alternate strip. Now 
slice the cucumber very thin in slices, and fold them once, then 
once again, fasten them with a wooden skewer, to hold them in 
the shape of a nasturtium blossom. When ready to use, re- 
move skewer and the cucumber will stay in shape and is a very 
pretty garnish, especially for fish or with salad. 

Cucumber Jelly for Garnish. — Mould a Cucumber Jelly 
in tiny moulds in the form of tomatoes, and put each one oa a 
slice of lemon, and serve around soft-shelled crabs. 

Cucumber Straws. — Cut in 2-inch lengths, peel, and then cut 
in thin strips lengthwise and lay them together, and cut again 
in straws. 



ACCESSORIES AND GARNISHINGS. ETC. 187 

1 795. Dumplings, Plain.—Siftljt^ cups flour with 2 teasps. 
baking-powder and 3^ teasp. salt; rub in 1 teasp. butter. Add a 
very little milk to a small beaten egg, add to the flour with 
enough milk to make a stiff batter. Drop from spoon on top 
of boiling meat, or in small cups in a steamer, cover close, and 
steam 12 minutes. These are also good without the egg. 

796. Egg Cups. — Cut cold boiled eggs in halves, remove 
yolks, and fill with minced cucumber and sweet red pepper 
mixed with French di-essing, and garnish yolks over top; add . 
minced parsley or chervil, and serve on lettuce leaves as a gar- 
nish to fish or meat. 

797. Farci or Forcemeat. — Cook any cold meat or fish, 
or mushrooms and truffles, in a little butter, pound it, adding 
salt, pepper, lemon juice, minced parsley, and chives. This is 
used as a stuffing, and may also be spread in chops or steaks that 
are split open from the side. 

798. Hominy Crescents Fried. — Add to 1 cup boiled 
hominy 2 tbsps. butter, 2 of grated horseradish, and little salt. 
Turn into a shallow, buttered pan 3^ inch thick. When cool cut 
with crescent-shape cutter, crumb, egg, crumb, and fry in deep 
fat. 

799. Hominy Diamonds Fried. — To 2 cups cooked 
hominy or white cornmeal add 1 tbsp. butter, a little salt, and 1 
beaten egg. Press into a buttered mould, and when cold cut in 
J^-inch slices, then in diamonds, dust lightly with flour, and 
crumb, egg and crumb, and fry in deep fat. 

800. Lemon Cups or Slices. — Cut lemons in two, remove 
pulp, and fill with any of the cold acid sauces that are suitable 
to serve with fish, or fill with Ravigote Sauce (767), place on ice 
until solid, then cut in slices or quarters, and serve with fish. 

801. Mushrooms Dried. — Mince fine the peel, stems, and 
small, imperfect mushrooms when they are in season and the 
cheapest, dry them in a very cool oven or under glass in the sun. 
The latter method is. best. Bottle and use 1 tbsp. for soups, and 
1 teasp. for sauces soaked an hour in stock, then simmered an 
hour and strained. 



188 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

802. Fried Parsley. — Saute parsley sprigs in butter until 
crisp, and use while warm. 

803. Pineapple Garnish. — Cut ripe pineapple in thin 
slices, saute in butter, and cut in strips or quarters. 

804. Puff Paste Triangles. — Roll puff paste rather thin, 
cut in triangles, bake, and use as a garnish. 

805. Spanish Forcemeat. — Mix 1 green pepper, 1 fresh 
tomato, and 2 cups of shrimps all cut in shreds, add 1 tbsp. but- 
ter, }4: teasp. salt, and cook 10 minutes. Onion may be added 
also. When cool spread on top or in slits of cutlets of meat or 
fish. 

806. Swedish Timbale Cases. — Sift 1 cup flour in a 
bowl. Beat 2 eggs, add 3^ cup water, 3^ teasp. salt, 1 of sugar, 
and add to the flour. Beat constantly and add, a few drops at a 
time, 1 tbsp. olive oil, and let batter stand a few hours. Heat 
timbale iron quite hot, hold it in hot lard 2 minutes, wipe it with 
a cloth, and plunge it in a little of the batter in a cup about % the 
depth of the iron, and then in the hot lard until a light brown. 
Place cases in a cool, dry place without touching each other until 
ready to use. Dip edges in beaten egg white, then in finely 
powdered egg yolk and in finely minced parsley, or in paprika; 
fill with any hot creamed mixtures. 

807. Swedish Rosettes. — Make as above, using the rosette 
iron instead of the timbale iron. 

808. Tomato Garnish. — Cut unpeeled tomatoes in slices, 
put them in a buttered pan, dust with salt and paprika, cover 
with buttered paper, and bake 15 minutes. Serve around rice, 
peas, or any meat dish harmonizing with tomatoes. 




Game is usually carved in the butler's pantry, unless the 
host prefers to show his skill in carving. The plates are 
placed in front of each guest from the right, and the game, 
with currant jelly or fruit relish which usually accompanies 
game, is passed to the left.. If salad is served with game, 
which is customary unless it follows with cheese as a separate 
course, it is sometimes prepared at the table, and should be 
passed as soon as game is served. Only vegetable salad 
should be served with game. Meat or poultry salad should 
not be served at dinner, and is admissible at luncheon 
only when there is but one meat 
course. If the game plates are 
very hot, place small, cold plates 
at the left of each cover for the 
salad, but if the salad is served 
on leaves of lettuce to protect it 
from the heat of the plate, tl is 
will avoid the necessity of the 
extra plate and is better form. 

Remove this course from the 
right of each cover one at a time 
or one in each hand. If the small 
plate is used, take up the game 
plate first, then place the salad 

189 




190 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

plate upon it. This is the only exception to the general 
rule never to pile plates one on top of the other. 
Serve Burgundy, slightly warm. 



FEATHERED GAME 

Ducks. — All varieties of wild duck may be cooked by the 
following methods, and as but the breasts only are served 
it requires one bird for each two persons. Many epicures 
prefer game very rare so that the blood will follow the knife. 
In that case the time given for cooking in the following 
recipes should be shortened by a few minutes. The time 
given is for the taste of the average person, not well done 
and yet not underdone. 

809. Ducks Broiled. — Method for all Varieties. — 
Singe, draw, and wipe with damp cloth, split down the back, and 
flatten with a cleaver, cover with 2 tbsps. olive oil or butter and 
}/2 teasp. salt, dash pepper, 1 tbsp. lemon juice }/^ an hour. Then 
broil 18 minutes, serve with Maitre d'Hotel Sauce (763). 

810. Ducks Roasted. — Method for all Varieties. — Do 
not wash ducks, but singe, draw, and wipe them, slit and remove 
crops, pass heads through the slit, and draw them between the 
drumsticks, rinse inside with very little water and lemon juice, 
truss and cut off wings at second joint, sprinkle inside with salt 
and pepper, and put 2 or 3 cranberries or celery tops in each 
duck, spread breasts thin with butter, dust with pepper and salt, 
place in baking pan with 1 tbsp. water and juice of J^ lemon, 
and bake in very hot oven on a rack, 20 minutes for large ducks 
and 15 for small ones, basting frequently. Remove celery, serve 
very hot with Orange Sauce (765), currant jelly, and Hominy 
Crescents (798). 

811. Duck en Presse — Frederick. — ^This is a famous 
preparation made by Frederick, of the restaurant called "Le 
Tour d' Argent, " in Paris. Roast a duckling 18 minutes, remove 
the meat from breasts in small fillets, and put them on a hot dish. 



GAME 191 

a chafing dish. Cut up the carcass and put it in a press which 
will squeeze all the juice from the meat and bones, adding a 
small glass of red wine to assist the process. The gravy will be 
almost thick; add a little brandy and plenty of freshly ground 
black pepper, and pour it over the fillets. Cook until boiling 
and serve. 

Partridges, Grouse, Prairie Chickens and Pheasants 

may all be cooked by the following methods: 

812. To Broil. — Method. — Singe, draw and wipe the birds, 
split down the back, roll them in 2 tbsps. oil or melted butter 
seasoned with pepper and salt, broil 15 minutes, spread breasts 
with butter, and serve on squares of fried hominy with currant 

jelly. 

813. To Devil. — Method. — Broil 15 minutes and roll in 
1 tbsp. melted butter mixed with 1 tbsp. parsley minced, juice of 
1 lemon, }/g teasp. salt, and paprika. Then sprinkle lightly with 
mustard, roll in fine crumbs, and bake in very hot oven 10 min- 
utes. 

814. To Roast.— Method.— Dress and truss the birds, cover 
breasts and legs with slices salt pork, or spread them well with 
butter. Put a small piece of toast, wet in sherry, inside, or a 
small piece of butter rolled in salt and pepper, or stuff with 
bread, celery, and parsley, place in baking pan with 1 tbsp. but- 
ter and 2 of boiling water, or place in paper bag, bake 25 min- 
utes, and brown 5 minutes. Serve with liquorfrom pan or bag, 
and mushrooms or dried mushroom flavor. 

Any of these birds may be boned (429), cooked, and 
served cold in bed of lettuce or water-cress accompanied by 
French dressing or mayonnaise dressing. 

815. To Roast or Bake in Paper Bag. — Method.— 
Stuff the birds with a bread dressing well seasoned with minced 
celery and parsley, using 1 cup celery, truss, and spread the 
breasts and legs with butter, dust with salt and paprika, place 
in buttered paper bag, place on rack on top of pan in hot oven 
for 3 minutes, reduce heat, and cook 25 minutes. If birds are 
not brown when bag is opened, return to oven for 5 minutes. 
Add juice in bag to a thin Brown Sauce flavored with dried 



192 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

mushrooms or filled with fresh mushrooms cut in thin slices, and 
serve in a boat. Also serve currant jelly. These are very good if 
served cold with salad. 

816' To Saute. — Method 1. — Skin and remove legs and 
wings, flatten the breasts, roll in flour, and saut^ in butter mixed 
with salt-pork fat, until brown, place on hot dish, add IJ^ tbsps. 
of browned flour to the saute pan, stir until smooth, add 1^^ 
cups hot stock or water, season with salt, pepper, and 1 teasp. of 
good table sauce. Strain and pour around the birds. Method 
2. — Cut breasts from ducks, divide them in two parts. Boil 
legs and livers until they can be pressed through a sieve. 
Cook this with 3^ cup of the broth, J^ cup good quality of 
sherry, 2 tbsps. butter, add salt and cayenne. When hot, 
arrange the breasts on a platter with slices of bread sauted in 
butter, and pour over the sauce. Truffles and mushrooms may 
be added to sauce. 

817, — Partridges en Casserole.— Trim and truss the 
birds. Poele them on a mirepoix (see "Hints to Novice") 
until nearly done, turn them into a clean casserole with 6 boiled 
button onions and 6 sauted mushrooms. Add to the pan in 
which mushrooms were cooked the contents of the dish in which 
the birds were cooked, 2 tbsps. of stock made from the trim- 
mings and well cooked down, and J^ cup of red wine. Strain, 
pour over the birds, and cook 10 minutes in oven, basting often. 
Serve in the casserole. 

818. Partridges with Cream Sauce. — Roast or saute the 
birds, cover with buttered crumbs, and place in oven to brown 
while making the sauce. Add 1 tbsp. flour to fat in pan, cook 
until brown, add 1 cup hot cream, salt, and paprika, and strain 
over the birds. 

819. Pigeons Potted en Casserole. — Singe and stuff 
birds with bread crumbs, savory herbs, salt pork minced, and 
salt and pepper; do not close the birds, but truss them well, 
spread them with a little butter, and put them in a buttered 
casserole in hot oven until brown. Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 2 
tbsps. flour, add 2 cups stock, add salt, pepper, bit of bay leaf, 
and onion, and 1 teasp. good table sauce, pour sauce over the 
pigeons, cover, and cook slowly IJ^ hours. Serve in casserole 
with an acid fruit jelly. 



GAME 193 

820. Pigeons Stewed with Mushrooms.— Stui! 3 

pigeons with 1 cup bread crumbs mixed with 1 tbsp. minced 
suet, 1 beaten egg, J^ teasp. salt, and dash pepper. Put in 
sauce pan or casserole with }/2 bay leaf, 3 peppercorns, and 2 
cups boiling stock, stew until tender, about an hour, take them 
out, cut in halves, place on hot dish, and keep hot. Cook 1 tbsp. 
butter with 2 of flour, add 2 cups strained liquor from pan, j^ 
lb. fresh mushrooms cut in small pieces, and when tender pour 
over pigeons. 

821. Quails, Squabs, or Small Birds Broiled. — Singe 
birds, split them down the back, clean and flatten them with a 
cleaver, brush with butter, dust with pepper and salt, and broil 
slowly until a light brown on flesh side, brown the other side, 
then place in hot oven for 2 minutes, basting often with butter, 
spread birds with butter, and serve on fried hominy or toast 
spread with Game Stuffing (843) or pate de foie gras, and garnish 
with water-cress and orange quarters. 

822. Quails with Grapes en Casserole. — Saute the 
quails for a moment in butter, turn them into the casserole, with 
j^ lb. of peeled Malaga grapes and a very little strong stock 
made from the trimmings. Cook 20 minutes in oven and serve 
in the casserole. 

823. Quails, Squabs, or any Small Birds Roasted. — 

Truss 6 birds and cover each one with a slice of salt pork. Place 
them in baking pan with 2 tbsps. boiling water, cover, and 
steam 15 minutes, remove cover and pork, cover with 1 tbsp. 
butter, little pepper and salt, and bake 5 minutes, basting often. 
Serve on toast with Port Wine Sauce (741). Quails may be 
boned and served cold on bed of water-cress. 

824. Quails Roasted in Apple Nests. — Roast birds as 
above, and lay them in hot baked apples that have been split 
open. Spread with butter and serve at once. Any small bird 
may be used. The apples should be tender, but not soft. 

825. Quails or Squabs Roasted with Truffles. — 

Stuil 6 birds with the minced livers cooked in pork fat and 
mixed with 2 tbsps. bread crumbs, 1 minced truffle, salt, pepper, 
dash nutmeg, and 1 tbsp. sherry. Tie slice of pork on each bird, 
place in baking pan, add 3^ cup each stock and white wine, bakr 



194 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

15 to 20 minutes, basting often, remove bacon, place birds on 
hot dish, skim, and strain liquor from pan, add 3 truffles cut in 
shces, pour over quails, and serve. 

826- Squabs and Livers en Casserole. — Stuff squabs 
with soft bread mixed with the squab giblets and livers, and 
chickens' livers all minced, mushrooms minced, salt, pepper, and 
a little butter. Brown the squabs in butter slightly, then turn 
them in the casserole, cover with a little stock, add asparagus 
tips, artichoke fonds, and mushrooms sliced. Cook 20 minutes. 
Serve with the gravy poured over, or cook them in water and 
make a brown sauce of the liquor in casserole, and flavor it with 
Madeira, port, or sherry. 

827. Squabs Roasted with Bread Sauce. — Dust each 
bird with salt, pepper, and minced parsley, cover with thin 
slices of salt pork, and lay them close together in a well-buttered 
baking pan. Bake 10 minutes, then remove pork, pour 1 tbsp. 
sherry over each bird, baste, and cook 5 minutes. Take up 
birds and add }/2 glass of currant jelly, 2 tbsps. butter, and a 
dash of nutmeg to liquor in pan, when hot pour over the birds 
and also put a spoonful of Bread Sauce on each, and cover with 
crumbs rolled in butter and browned. If squabs are Royal or 
Jumbo, stufiF with mushrooms or blanched and shredded almonds 
mixed with bread. 

828. Squabs or any Small Birds Roasted in Me- 
ringue. — Bone and cut in halves any small birds, leaving the 
foot on. Place each half in a well-buttered and rather deep 
ramekin dish, or in a paper ramekin well oiled or buttered both 
inside and out. Sprinkle with minced mushrooms, pour in 2 
or 3 tbsps. of Spanish Sauce (748), cover with a meringue sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, leaving the tiny foot and toes out. 
Cover meringue with browned crumbs and bake them 20 minutes 
in medium oven. Sprve in the ramekins with water-cress salad. 



GROUND GAME 

829. Hare or Rabbit Jugged (en Casserole). — Cut 

1 rabbit or hare in small pieces, skin and wash quickly, wipe 
dry, dredge in flour, and saute until brown in butter and bacon 



GAME [95 

fat. Turn into a buttered casserole, add 1 small onion sliced, J^ 
lemon sliced, J^ teasp. salt, a muslin bag filled with a few whole 
cloves, allspice, peppers, bit of mace, parsley, and J^ teasp. 
savory herbs. Cover with boiling water or stock, put on casse- 
role cover, and place in a fireless cooker in hot water 2 hours, or 
cook in oven in a kettle of hot water 1^ hours. When done, take 
out meat, add 2 cups stock to 1 tbsp. butter cooked with 3 of 
flour, add J^ cup port wine, and strain over the hare, and serve 
it in the casserole. 

830' Hare or Rabbit Roasted, English Style. — Skin 
and stuff 2 rabbits or 1 hare with 2 cups bread crumbs soaked in 
milk and mixed with 3^ cup minced mushrooms, J^ teasp. salt 
and paprika, and juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. Rub the 
rabbit with a cut lemon, squeeze juice over it, and let stand an 
hour. Place on rack in baking pan, pour over 1 cup cream, and 
cook in hot oven ^ of an hour. Place on hot dish, strain over 
sauce from pan, and serve with Piquante Sauce (740) in a boat. 

831. Hare or Rabbit Sauted. — Wash and dry a young 
rabbit, cut into 8 pieces, rejecting tendons and skin, spread with 
butter, dust with salt and pepper, and steam 15 minutes. Dry, 
roll in flour mixed with cornmeal, seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and saute in J^ cup hot butter or oil until brown. Place 
rabbit on hot dish, add to fat 2 tbsps. flour, brown slightly, add 
3^ cup Meat Essence (66), 1 cup tomato pulp, and 3 tbsps. of 
white wine, and pour over the rabbit. 

832. Squirrels Stewed, Brunswick Stew. — Cut 2 or 3 

small squirrels in small pieces and lay them in salted water an 
hour. Drain and cover with 2 qts. of boiling salted water, add 
2 sliced onions, 1 cup lima beans, 1 cup green corn scraped, J^ 
lb. salt-pork dice, 3^ teasp. paprika or good pinch of cayenne, 
cover and simmer 2 or 3 hours, add 2 cups tomatoes, 3 sliced 
potatoes, 1 teasp. sugar, and cook another hour, add }4 cup but- 
ter in small pieces and rolled in flour and 1 cup fresh mushrooms 
in slices, cook 10 minutes, and serve. 

833. Squirrel Pie. — Skin and cut 2 small squirrels in small 
pieces, wash in salted water, dry and roll in flour, saut^ in pork 
fat until slightly brown, and place in buttered pie dish or cas- 
serole, add 2 cups stock, salt and pepper, cover, and cook in oven 



196 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

2 hours. Take from oven and thicken gravy slightly. Pour 
part of the gravy in a boat, cover dish with a 3^-inch crust of 
Near Puff Paste, slit it in centre for steam to escape, and bake 
20 minutes in hot oven. Add a little tomato puree to gravy 
in boat, and serve with the pie. 

834- Venison Broiled. — Dip venison chops or fillets ^ 
inch thick in 2 tbsps. oil or melted butter, seasoned with salt, 
cayenne, and dash of nutmeg, broil 10 minutes, cover with 1 
tbsp. butter, 1 of currant jelly, and 2 of Madeira, port, or sherry. 

835- Venison Roasted. — Marinate for 3 days a 6-lb. piece 
of venison in 1 qt. claret, little salt, pepper, bay leaf, green 
celery leaves, onion sliced, 3 or 4 whole cloves, 3 allspice, and 1 
or 2 peppercorns. Drain venison, cut gashes 2 inches deep and 
1 inch apart, and insert thin slices of salt pork. Place on rack 
in pan, strain, and pour over all that is left of the claret mari- 
nade, and cook in hot oven \]/2 hours, basting often. Serve on 
hot dish, add 1 glass currant jelly to pan, and strain, and serve 
in a boat. 

836. Venison Roasted (Plain but Good). — Cover veni- 
son with vinegar and water, J^ of each, for an hour. Wipe dry 
and put in hot oven, and baste with 3^ cup each of butter and 
water. When done, pour over 1 cup currant jelly, take up meat, 
and thicken gravy. 

837. Venison Sauted with Truffles. — Lard 6 chops or 
fillets with truffles, season with salt and pepper and minced 
parsley, sa;ute in butter until well cooked through, add 3^ lb. 
fresh mushrooms stewed in stock. Place on hot platter, add 3 
tbsps. Madeira to stock in pan, and strain over the meat. 



COLD GAME DISHES 

838. Game Pie. — Line a deep dish with Near Puff Paste 
(1222), and line the paste with minced veal mixed with a little 
minced salt pork, and seasoned with salt, paprika, and a dash 
of nutmeg, fill with small fillets of uncooked game, a little 
shredded ham, 3 or 4 mushrooms in slices, and 1 tbsp. each of 
minced parsley and shredded pistachio nuts. Pour in 1 cup 



GAME 197 

strong stock, put on cover of pastry, and bake 2 hours. Serve 
either hot or cold. 

839- Pigeon Galantine. — Bone pigeons and stuff them 
with the following stuffing, using a forcing bag and tube. Wrap 
the birds in buttered cheese-cloth, and boil them ^ of an hour. 
Stuffing. — ^To 1 cup of minced chicken, veal, or lamb add 3^ 
cup minced bacon or salt pork, pound until smooth, seasoning 
with salt and pepper, and add 3^ cup minced mushrooms, 1 
minced truffle, and 2 tbsps. of pate de foie gras. When birds 
are cold, cut in slices with a wet knife and mask each slice in 
Tomato Chaud-froid (792), and when cold serve on a bed of aspic 
with a garnish of cherry salad. Sprinkle aspic and cherries 
with minced chervil, if at hand, and serve very cold. 

840. Quails or Squabs with Champagne Sauce.— Bone 

birds, leaving one foot on. Stuff them with fresh minced mush- 
rooms mixed with a little minced shallot or onion, parsley, salt, 
pepper, and a very few bread crumbs, all cooked for 3 minutes 
in butter. Roast and press the birds between 2 plates until cold, 
then cover each bird with the following preparation, and serve 
very cold, with the cold Champagne Sauce (704). Masking 
Preparation. — To 1 cup thick Cream Sauce add 2 yolks, 3 
tbsps. ham or tongue minced, and 1 tbsp. minced parsley. Cook 
for a moment and use when cool. 

841. Squabs Roasted and Served Cold. — Stuff birds 
with minced veal and celery seasoned with parsley, chives, salt 
and pepper, and pate de foie gras or minced truffles. Cover 
birds with slices of salt pork, add a very little stock. Cover pan 
and steam 20 minutes. Remove cover, pour a little sherry over 
them, and sprinkle birds with soft bread crumbs, dust with salt 
and pepper, and cook them until brown, basting often. Re- 
move from oven, continue basting until they are cold, split them 
at breastbone, and serve the halves on aspic jelly with a green 
salad. 

842. Game Sauce. — Cook 1 tbsp. bacon, minced, with 1 
onion, sliced, and 1 teasp. parsley, add l}/^ cups hot stock, J^ 
bay leaf, the minced liver of birds, 1 tbsp. butter, little salt and 
pepper, 3 tbsps. chopped mushrooms, and 2 tbsps. bread crumbs. 
Simmer 10 minutes and pour over the birds. 



198 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

843- Game Stuffing or Forcemeat. — ^Mix the liver of 
the birds, chopped fine, with 1 tbsp. butter, dash salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, and cayenne, 3^ teasp. parsley, 1 teasp. chives, 1 beaten 
egg, and J^ cup soaked bread crumbs. Stuff the birds with this, 
or spread on the toast under the birds. 




All salads are suitable for luncheon or supper, but care 
should be taken, however, not to serve meat or poultry twice 
at the same meal. Only vegetable or fruit saladj should be 
served at dinner. If French dressing be used, the host or 
hostess may prepare salad on the table, but at formal dinners 
it is usually made in the butler's pantry just before serving; a 
French dressing will not bear waiting. A vegetable salad is 
usually served with game and may be followed by a hot cheese 
course. With a heavy dinner the light salad is more desir- 
able, and, if there is no game, the salad may be served with 
cheese or cheese preparations. This is the English way, how- 
ever, and if the hostess prefers to serve cheese and wafers 
after the dessert, it is perfectly proper to do so. Serve the 
salad as you do all the other courses, followed by the cheese 
and pulled bread, or wafers. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

S44. Cooked Dressing. — Heat 3 tbsps. vinegar with }/2 
teasp. each salt, mustard, .sugar, and J^ teasp. paprika; cream 
34 butter; beat 3 yolks until thick, add slowly the hot vinegar, 
and cook "slowly, add the butter and 1 beaten egg white. Beat 
until cold and place on ice in covered glass jar. Serve with 
vegetables. When ready to serve, J^ cup whipped cream may 
be added. 

84S. French Dressing. — Rub a cold bowl with a cut clove 
of garlic, or put 34 of a small onion in the bowl, in centre of bowl 

199 




200 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

put 13^ teasps. salt in a mound, cover it with black pepper, then 
with paprika or cayenne, add 6 tbsps. oil and 2 of tarragon 
vinegar, with a piece of ice size of an egg, and with a fork stir the 

dressing until it is thick. Mustard, 
Worcestershire sauce, lemon, 
orange, or grape-fruit juice may be 
added to suit any particular salad. 
If using lemon, then use less vin- 
egar. A large quantity of this 
dressing may be put in a glass jar 
and, if closely covered and kept on 
ice, it will keep a long time. Each 
time it is used it should be shaken or stirred well. If to be 
used for fruit, use lemon juice instead of vinegar. 

846- French Dressing and Cheese with Pimentoes. 

— Add to French dressing 3 tbsps. Rochefort cheese, softened 
in 2 of cream, and same of pimento pressed through a sieve, add 
1 tbsp. each chilli sauce, minced cabbage, and Bermuda onion, 
and garnish with yolks and whites of hard-cooked eggs. Use 
for vegetables. 

847- French Dressing Chiffonade. — Add to French 
dressing 1 hard-cooked egg chopped, 1 teasp. chives, 1 tbsp. each 
beets and red and green pepper, all minced fine, and serve with 
lettuce or any green salad. 

848. French Dressing with Chilli Sauce. — Add to 

French dressing, with 1 tbsp. less vinegar, 3 tbsps. chilli sauce, 1 
tbsp. minced chives, 1 teasp. minced parsley, and J^ teasp. pa- 
prika; a little pimento pur^e may also be added. Use for fruit 
or vegetables. If a little Oscar sauce be added, this dressing 
is quite like the specialty of a famous New York restaurant. 

849. French Dressing with Cream. — When making 
French dressing omit onion and add drop by drop, alternately 
with lemon juice or vinegar, 3 tbsps. thick cream, and use at 
once on fruits or vegetables. It should be quite thick. A little 
whipped cream may also be added. 

850. French Dressing with Nuts. — Add to French 
dressing 3 tbsps. of pecans, hazel nuts, or English walnuts, 
chopped and pounded fine in a mortar and softened with cream. 



SALADS 201 

A little pimento puree may also be added. Serve on fresh pears 
or other fruit. 

85 1- Mayonnaise Dressing. — Rub a deep bowl with 
onion. Have both eggs and oil of moderate temperature. Put 1 
yolk in the bowl, add 1 teasp. of tarragon or plain vinegar, 3^ 
teasp. salt, J^ teasp. paprika, or a little cayenne, and with an egg 
beater or fork beat until it begins to thicken, then add, drop by 
drop, beating constantly, % cup of oil. When it is quite thick, 
add 1 tbsp. lemon juice, continue beating until all the oil is used, 
then add 1 teasp. boiling water, beat for a moment, turn into a 
glass jar, cover with paraffin paper, then with a close-fitting 
cover, and keep it in the refrigerator, but not on ice. Do not 
let it freeze, and it will keep indefinitely. If it separates when 
making or afterward, put a fresh yolk in a bowl, add a few drops 
of oil while beating, then add the mayonnaise, a little at a time, 
when all will be thick. More vinegar may be added if preferred. 
This makes 1 full cupful. If used for fruit, omit vinegar and add 
more lemon juice, grape-fruit, or orange juice. 

852. Mayonnaise Cardinal. — Add to Mayonnaise Cream, 
chilli sauce, pimento puree, minced green peppers or chives or 
olives, 1 teasp. Oscar sauce, and paprika. Serve on French en- 
dive. 

853. Mayonnaise Cream Dressing. — To 1 cup mayon- 
naise add }/s more salt, pepper, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, and 3^ cup 
cream whipped very stiff. Use at once. 

854. Mayonnaise Jelly Dressing.— Add to J^ cup mayon- 
naise when nearly finished, 3^ cup aspic jelly or 1 teasp. gelatine 
dissolved in J^ cup of hot consomme and cooled, 1 tbsp. tarragon 
vinegar, and 2 of whipped cream may be added when finished, 
to give flavor and lightness to the dressing. 

855. Mayonnaise Cucumber. — To one-half the recipe of 
mayonnaise jelly add 1 cucumber parboiled and pressed through 
a sieve, color green, and use with fish, meats, or vegetables. 

856. Mayonnaise Hollandaise. — Mix equal parts of cold 
HoUandaise Sauce and mayonnaise, add minced onion, shallot, 
and chervil or parsley. 



202 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

8S7> Mayonnaise Piquante. — Add to mayonnaise 2 
tbsps. each minced gherkins, chilli sauce or tomato catsup and 
olives, 1 tbsp. horseradish, and 1 teasp. French mustard. 

858. Mayonnaise Raspberry. — To mayonnaise add the 
juice of half a lemon, 1 tbsp. tarragon vinegar, plenty of pa- 
prika to color it quite pink, a dash of cayenne, salt if needed, and 
1 teasp. of raspberry vinegar. Serve with crab meat, lobster, 
or even a plain lettuce and cucumbers. 

859. Mayonnaise Ravigote. — Cover with |^ cup boiling 
water, 4 tbsps. water-cress, and 1 tbsp. each of chives, chervil, 
and parsley, all minced fine, add 1 tbsp. minced pepper grass if 
obtainable, ]/2 cup cooked spinach, and 1 tbsp. capers, cook 
until reduced one-half, squeeze through cheese-cloth, and add 
this liquid to mayonnaise made with tarragon vinegar and a 
very little mustard. 

860. Mayonnaise with Sardines. — Add 6 skinned and 
boned sardines to mayonnaise, 1 tbsp. pimento puree, and 1 of 
tarragon vinegar, and serve with boiled eggs or fish. 

861. Mayonnaise Tomato. — Cook 1 tbsp. each diced 
celery, ham, onion, and parsley in butter, add bit of bay leaf, 2 
cloves, 1 tbsp. flour, and ]/2 cup tomato purfe. Press through 
colander, cool, and add J^ cup mayonnaise. 

862. Whipped Cream Dressing. — Whip 1 cup cream 
very stiff, and when ready to use add 2 tbsps. lemon juice, 1 of 
tarragon vinegar, 1 teasp. salt, 3^ teasp. each of mustard and 
sugar, 2 drops Tabasco, or }/^ teasp. cayenne, and serve on 
vegetables. This is a good stuffing fpr whole tomatoes when 
used as a salad. 



SALADS OF MEATS OR VEGETABLES 

863. Alligator Pear Salad. — Peel and cut the pears in 
small pieces, and cover with French dressing, using 2 tbsps. less 
oil and adding 1 tbsp. lime juice. Tomatoes chopped into dice, 
and a very little minced onion or cucumber cubes or cantaloupe 
cubes may be added. One or two tbsps. of claret may also be 
added to the dressing. 



SALADS 203 

864. Artichoke Salad (Jockey Club). — Cut artichoke 
fonds (bottoms) into strips like matches, add shredded celery 
and truffles, cover with French dressing, and serve on lettuce 
sprinkled well with paprika, or serve the fonds whole covered 
with mayonnaise, upon which place asparagus tips, green peas, 
and string beans. 

865. Artichokes in Aspic. — Line 1 large or 6 small moulds 
with aspic jelly, lay in artichoke fonds, hard-boiled egg white 
rings, 3 tbsps. pat^ de foie gras, softened with cream, and 1 tbsp. 
capers. Unmould and serve on bed of lettuce, pour a spoonful 
of mayonnaise over each, and garnish with the egg yolks and 
pimento pressed through a sieve. 

866. Artichoke and Orange Salad for Game. — Cover 
the fonds with sliced oranges, pour over a French dressing made 
with lemon juice, and garnish with shredded celery. 

867. Asparagus Salad. — Cover 3 small or 1 large bunch 
of cold boiled asparagus with French dressing, and serve them 
in rings of green or red pepper, or place them on lettuce and 
cover with French Dressing, Chiff onade (847) , or with chilli sauce. 
Serve ice-cold. 

868. Beet, and Apple Salad (Bleeding Hearts). — 

Put a spoonful of mayonnaise on leaves of lettuce, and on each 
place the bleeding heart. Cut the apex point of the heart from 
thin slices of apple immersed in lemon juice. Cut the two lobes 
of the heart from thin slices of boiled beet and place them each 
side of the apple points, and serve with almond cream cheese on 
strips of toast. This is an appropriate salad for St. Valentine's 
Day. 

869. Beets Stuffed with Salad. — Boil and peel beets of 
uniform size, scoop them out into cups, and fill with any of the 
following: cucumber, celery, tomato, parsley, and beets chopped 
and mixed with French or mayonnaise dressing. Cabbage and 
beets in French dressing, or apple dice, or green peas and pecans 
in mayonnaise cream dressing. Surmount each with a small 
ball of cream cheese, and serve on lettuce. 

870. Cabbage Salad. — Shave fine 2 cups cabbage, soak it 
in ice-water 2 hours, drain, and add 1 cup celery dice cooked, 2 
drops Tabasco or 1 tbsp. tomato catsup, and cover with Cooked 
Dressing, and sprinkle with minced beets and grated raw carrots. 



204 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

871. Cabbage Salad, English Style. — Shave cabbage 
very fine and cover it with ice-water for 2 hours, drain and dry, 
and when very cold mix 3 cups of it with 1 tbsp. horseradish or 
fresh tarragon, 1 of shredded green pepper, and 2 tbsps. each 
of raw grated carrot, minced beets, and capers. Add 1 tbsp. 
minced onion held under the cold-water faucet in a cloth, then 
squeezed dry. Pour French Cream Dressing over the salad, toss 
lightly, and serve. 

872. Cauliflower Salad with Curry. — Cook cauli- 
flower in milk and water, drain, dust with salt, and cool. Serve 
covered with a French dressing mixed with 1 teasp. curry pow- 
der, ]/2 of French mustard, 2 slices of lemon chopped, 1 teasp. 
each chives and parsley, and a generous sprinkling of pepper. 

873. Celery, Apple, and Ham Salad. — Mix 1 cup celery 
cubes with 3^ cup of small, thin slices of sour apple, and J^ 
cup cold boiled ham cut in very thin slices and then in pieces 
the size of a postage stamp. Mix with mayonnaise, serve on a 
bed of lettuce, and garnisli with sweet red pepper cut in shreds 
with the scissors and halves of peeled yellow egg tomatoes. 

874. Celery and Artichoke Salad. — Cut into strips 
like matches 2 cups celery, mix with 1 cup artichoke strips, cover 
with French Dressing or mayonnaise, and garnish with bits of 
beet or red apple with skin on, and a few grape-fruit carpels. 

873. Celery Salad in Cheese (Dutch Salad) .—Select 
a small Holland cheese, scoop out the inside, leaving a thin shell, 
and fill with celery mixed with Mayonnaise Cream (853) . Capers, 
chives, or truffles may be added to the salad. 

876. Celery Salad with Sauterne Dressing. — Mix 

shredded celery with half the amount of grape-fruit carpels and 
nasturtium pods, and French dressing made with sauterne in- 
stead of vinegar. 

877. Celeriac Salad.— Celery hearts or knobs are called 
celeriac, and they should be chopped in dice and mixed with 
minced truffles and chervil, and French dressing, and garnished 
with Sweet Pickled Red Peppers (1817) . Apple dice and Malaga 
grapes may be added. 

878. Cheese and Bar le Due— Mix cream cheese and 
bar le due or gooseberry jam, put them in a square mould, and 



SALADS 205 

pack in ice and salt for 2 hours. Cut in squares, and serve on 
lettuce with a mayonnaise dressing piped around them. 

879. Cheese Jelly Salad. — Whip J^ cup cream, add % 
cup aspic jelly and J^ cup grated cheese, Parmesan or Stilton, 
add salt and pepper, and turn into a round, wet mould, and put 
on ice until very cold and hard. Cut in slices and serve on 
slices of tomato or artichoke fonds on lettuce, and cover with 
French Dressing with Pimento. A cup of minced nuts may be 
added to mixture. 

880. Cheese and Vegetable Salad. — Beat a perfectly 
fresh cream cheese with cream until soft, then add minced beets, 
green peas, and chopped olives until the cheese will hold no more. 
Form into round, flat cakes, and place on ice. When thoroughly 
chilled place on lettuce, and serve with Mayonnaise Cream on top. 

881. Chicken Salad. — Cut and wash chicken, and simmer 
until tender, when half-done season with a little salt, bit of bay 
leaf, a slice of salt pork, and a piece of red pepper. Cool in the 
stock, drain, and cut in cubes. Cover them with a French dress- 
ing for an hour, then to 1 J^ cups chicken add 1 cup of celery dice, 
or, if celery be out of season, use same amount of fresh green peas 
cooked and cooled, and crisp cucumber dice. Add part of the 
mayonnaise, toss with a fork, turn lightly in a bowl lined with 
lettuce, cover with the remainder, and garnish with a suitable 
combination of any of the following: capers, olives, ripe olives, 
pickled cucumbers, beets, pimentoes, nasturtium pods, green 
peas, or grated orange rind and fresh cocoanut. Capon or 
turkey may be used for the salad. Capon may be mixed with 
fresh-cooked mushrooms, and turkey with boiled chestnuts or 
sauted walnut meats. Beets or pimentoes may be cut to repre- 
sent flowers. 

882. Chicken Salad Blanche. — Make as above, using the 
white meat only, blanched celery, shredded almonds, cooked 
and diced egg whites, slices of blanched Brazil nuts, and Mayon- 
naise Cream Dressing (853). 

883. Chicken Salad Ravigote. — Saute % cup English 
walnuts, broken in bits, until brown in butter, cool, and add 2 
cups diced chicken, marinate in French dressing, and add 1 cup 
celery. Cover with Mayonnaise Ravigote (859), and serve on 
lettuce. 



206 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

884. Chiffonade Salad. — Shred in julienne strips lettuce, 
celery, beets, green and sweet red pepper, add small French beans 
and peas cooked, minced chives, fresh tarragon, and pepper grass, 
and mix with French dressing. Place large slices of tomato on 
well-bleached lettuce, and cover with the chiffonade. 

885. Cucumber Salad. — Peel cucumbers with a fluted cut- 
ter, cut nearly through in thin slices, and leave them in ice-water 
until required; then arrange them in half -circles, and cover with 
French dressing, and serve, or put them in a glass jar in the 
dressing, pack the jar in ice, and when nearly frozen serve them 
surrounded with ice. Or cut the peeled cucumbers in inch 
lengths and into strips, rejecting the seedy parts, and serve as 
above. When serving sprinkle with minced chives. 

886. Cucumber Cream Salad. — Peel, slice, and boil 3 
cucumbers in strained white stock until tender, with a sliced 
onion, 1 tbsp. meat extract, and 1 of Parmesan cheese. Press 
through sieve, add 3^ oz. or 1 tbsp. granulated gelatine, softened 
in a little water, to 2 cups of the pulp and liquid and 1 cup cream. 
Line mould or moulds with aspic, garnish with beets and cold 
cooked eggs, and fill with the cucumber cream. It may be col- 
ored a pale green. Serve on lettuce, and pipe mayonnaise 
around it. 

887. Cucumber Farci Salad. — Peel cucumbers with 
fluted cutters, cut into 2-inch lengths, scoop out centres, or peel 
and cut into halves lengthwise and scoop out centres, or remove 
a strip from top of each unpeeled cucumber, scoop out, and when 
filled replace lid with a long-stemmed flower between, flower at 
one end and stem at the other, with which to lift the lid. Fill 
the cups with lobster or fish or oysters mixed with celery and 
mayonnaise. Fill the boats with any of the salad mixtures, or 
fill them with any of the following: 

Shredded lettuce, minced onion, celery, some of the cucum- 
ber and French dressing; garnish with cooked egg yolks and 
capers. 

Spanish onion and tomato chopped, minced parsley, and 
French dressing, and cover with unpeeled grated radishes and 
horseradish. 

Minced cucumber, water-cress, celery, chives, capers, parsley, 
and French dressing, garnish with roses made out of red radishes. 



SALADS 207 

888. Cucumber Salad in Green 'Peppers. — ^Peel and 
chop 2 cucumbers, add a little salt, and drain. Add J^ teasp. 
minced onion or the juice, 3^ cup minced celery, and J^ cup 
broken pecans. Mix with any of the cooked dressings, or with 
mayonnaise, fill pepper shells, put a spoonful of dressing on top, 
and serve on lettuce. 

889. Cucumber Jelly Salad. — Peel and cut in shoes 3 
cucumbers, add 1 slice onion, 1 tbsp. each minced green pepper, 
nasturtium pods, and tarragon vinegar, cover with 2 cups cold 
water, and simmer until tender, add J^ oz. gelatine softened in 
little water, color leaf green, add salt, pepper, and cayenne, and 
strain through double cheese-cloth in a ring mould. Serve on 
lettuce with mayonnaise salad of any kind in centre, garnish 
with fresh slices of cucumber and bits of sweet red pepper. 
Tomato in French dressing is also good. 

890. Crab Meat Salad. — Remove meat from freshly 
boiled crabs, flake with a fork, and serve in any of the following 
methods : 

Add to crab meat shaved cabbage and chilli sauce, French 
dressing or mayonnaise, and serve in green peppers. 

Add cucumbers and tomatoes and mayonnaise, and serve 
in tomato cups. 

Add caviar, lemon juice, minced pimentoes, and mix with a 
Ravigote Dressing (859), serve in lettuce hearts made into cups, 
and garnish with ripe olives and green pepper strips. 

891. Egg Salad. — Mash yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs with 2 
tbsps. minced chicken, veal, lamb, or tongue, 1 tbsp. melted 
butter, 2 tbsps. cream, J^ teasp. salt, same of French mustard, 
and dash cayenne. Form into small balls with butter paddles, 
pile in centre of a bed of blanched lettuce, surround with the 
whites cut in rings, pour over French dressing, and garnish with 
nasturtium blossoms or Sweet Red Peppers Canned (1817). 

892. Egg Crown for Salad. — Dip egg quarters without 
the yolk in aspic jelly, and set them on end around a salad dish, 
fill with any salad, and garnish with the grated yolks. 

893. Egg Daisy Salad. — Arrange artichoke fonds on 
shredded lettuce, cover them with mayonnaise, and then with 
grated yolk arrange the whites cut in eighths lengthwise around 
these to represent a daisy petal, and serve one to each person. 



208 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

894. Egg Lily Salad. — Cut cold cooked eggs in lengthwise 
strips to the middle, remove yolks, and mash them with mayon- 
naise, form this into balls, and fill the white cups. Make tiny 
balls of the remainder, place all on lettuce, and garnish with 
pimento strips, or mix yolks with French dressing, put them in 
the whites, dust with grated cheese, and put each egg in a spoon- 
ful of mayonnaise on leaves of lettuce. 

895. Eggs and Tomato Salad. — Remove yolks from 
halves of eggs, fill with shrimps or lobster and mayonnaise, lay 
each egg on a slice of tomato sprinkled with minced pimento, 
green pepper, shallot, or onion, dust with the grated yolk mixed 
with a very little grated cheese. 

896. Egg-PIant Salad. — Peel, slice, salt, and press egg- 
plant an hour or more. Drain and cook in boiling water with 
salt and vinegar lintil tender, but not soft. Drain and cut in 
sticks, and soak in ice-water. Parboil celery sticks the same 
size, and plunge them in the ice-water. When cold and crisp 
drain and arrange on leaves of lettuce in a log-cabin square, fill 
centres with mayonnaise, place a spiral or cone of fresh young 
carrot in centre, dust all with minced chervil and tarragon or 
chives, and serve. A spiral cutter may be bought to use for 
any vegetable. 

897. Lettuce, Romaine, Endive, or Escarole. — Cover 
with ice-water, drain, and shake dry, and serve covered with any 
of the French dressings, and garnish with any of the following: 
minced chives, sorrel, chervil, tomato, nuts, minced pepper grass, 
Parmesan, strips of sweet pickled red pepper or chilli sauce. 

898. Boston Lettuce Hearts, Hotel Martinique. — 

Remove all outside leaves from the solid white hearts of 6 small 
heads of lettuce, pull the leaves apart slightly, stand on stem 
end, and sprinkle with shredded celery and minced pecans, and 
pour over French dressing. Garnish with skinned and seeded 
hot-house grapes cut in two. 

899. French Endive. — Serve with any of the French dress- 
ings, and garnish with Sweet Red Peppers (1817) and grape-fruit 
carpels. 

900. Julienne Salad, Cardinal. — Shred in long strips 
chicken white meat, tongue, celery, artichoke fonds, and truffles. 



SALADS 209 

Serve on lettuce covered with Mayonnaise Cardinal (852). Or 
omit meat and add carrots and apples, and serve with French 
dressing with chilli sauce. 

901- Romaine with Port du Salut. — Cover romaine 
with French dressing, and garnish with a spoonful of chilli sauce 
or chopped tomato and very thin fancy-cut slices of Port du 
Salut cheese spread with French mustard. Swiss cheese may 
be used instead of the Port du Salut, although not so delicate 
of flavor. 

902. Romaine or French Endive, Kuroki. — Upon long 
leaves of romaine or endive arrange crosswise orange and grape- 
fruit quarters or sections, free from skin and pulp, place strips 
of pimento between and at the ends small pieces of pickled wal- 
nuts, and pour over French dressing. Dot with J^-of-an-inch 
spirals of green cucumber peel. 

903. Liver Salad. — Cut cold boiled calf's liver in dice and 
marinate it in French dressing an hour. To 1 cup add 2 cups 
celery or cabbage, and mix with a cooked or mayonnaise dressing. 

904. Lobster Salad. — Marinate large pieces of lobster in 
French dressing or sherry an hour, drain, add 2 cups diced celery, 
and mix with mayonnaise, or flake lobster rather small, put it in 
a mould lined with chicken or beef aspic, and serve turned out 
on lettuce covered with mayonnaise. 

905. Macedoine Salad. — Mix with French dressing 3 cups 
of the following mixture of vegetables : cold boiled potato, string 
beans, green peas, carrots, celery, and beets, all cut in dice. 
Serve in a ring of aspic. 

906. Manhattan Salad. — Serve on lettuce 1 cup each 
chicken, celery, and apple, marinated an hour in lemon juice, and 
cover with mayonnaise, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, walnut 
meats, and orange or grape-fruit sections. 

907. Onion Salad, California Style. — Arrange in a 
salad bowl a layer of lettuce, over this a layer of sliced sour 
oranges, then a light layer of Bermuda onions cut in dice. They 
should be soaked for 2 hours in ice-water, in which 1 tbsp. each 
of salt and sugar have been dissolved. Garnish with carpels of 
grape-fruit, with a border of sweet red pepper dice. Serve a 



210 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

dish of Mayonnaise Cream Dressing (853), reposing in another 
filled ■vfith cracked ice, with this salad. If the dressing and 
salad are mixed it will become watery on account of the juicy 
oranges. 

908- Onion Salad, Texas Style. — Cook Bermuda onions 
in well-salted boiling water until tender but not soft, drain and 
cool, and scoop out centres, fill with tomatoes, peas, or string 
beans, or all of them mixed with mayonnaise. Pour French 
dressing over them, and serve on lettuce. 

909- Potato Salad. — Cut new boiled potatoes boiled in 
their jackets in salted water in very thin small slices. To 3 cups 
of potato add alternately in layers 3 hard-boiled eggs cut in 
quarters and then in slices. Marinate in French dressing made 
with equal amounts of oil and vinegar, and 1 tbsp. of minced 
Bermuda onion, or add same amount of minced chives and 1 of 
pimento puree. A little diced, cold boiled ham or cooked bacon 
may be added with the eggs if at hand. Cover with mayonnaise, 
or any of the cooked dressings, and garnish with pimento in 
fancy shapes, thin slices of gherkin, and plenty of capers. 

910- Potato Salad Lattice. — Cut potatoes with a lattice 
potato cutter, dust them with salt, and steam them until tender 
but not soft. Serve very cold on lettuce garnished with cold 
cooked green string beans, capers, beets, and cucumber pickles 
cut in strips. Cover with any of the French dressings. 

911. Potato Salad, German Style. — Boil new potatoes, 
peel them, and slice while warm, sprinkle with 2 tbsps. each finely 
minced parsley and onion, and pour over them the following 
dressing. Cook 2 tbsps. bacon or ham fat, 1 of butter, and }4 cup 
weak vinegar, add salt, pepper, and a very little German mus- 
tard. When cold add sliced cucumbers and diced bacon or ham. 

912. Rice Salad. — Turn into a well-oiled border mould 2 
cups hot boiled rice seasoned with salt and paprika. When 
very cold turn out on lettuce spread with Mayonnaise Jelly (854) 
colored pale green, fill centre with a macedoine of vegetables 
in French dressing. 

913. Salmon Salad Moulds. — Mix 2 cups cold boiled 
salmon, flaked, with 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 1 teasp. minced parsley, 
2 drops Tabasco and cooked butter dressing, to which add while 



SALADS 211 

hot 1 tbsp. granulated gelatine softened in a little water. Turn 
into oiled moulds. When cold turn out on lettuce, and serve 
with cucumbers in Mayonnaise. 

914. Scallop and Shrimp Salad, Russian Style. — 

Soak 1 pt. scallops and 1 cup peeled shrimps in salted ice-water 
an hour or more, drain, and boil scallops, all cut the same 
size, in salted boiling water 5 or 8 minutes, or until tender. 
If boiled too long they will become hard and tough. Add 
shrimps, drained. Mix these with same amount of celery dice, 
and cover with Mayonnaise Cardinal or Mayonnaise Piquante. 

91S' Shad Roe Salad. — Boil 1 pair roes J^ hour in salted 
acidulated water, plunge into ice-water, drain, skin, and cut in 
thin slices with a silver knife, add French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Serve on lettuce garnished with 1 cucumber cut in cubes 
and 1 teasp. minced chives. 

916- Shrimp Salad. — Soak 1 qt. shrimps in ice-water an 
hour or more, drain, and marinate in French dressing, place on 
lettuce, cover with Mayonnaise Piquante (857), and garnish with 
asparagus tips, capers, chives, pimolas, and gherkin fans. 

917' Shrimp Jelly Salad. — Make an unsweetened lemon 
jelly, and mould with shrimps that have been soaked in French 
dressing 2 hours. Serve with mayonnaise. 

918. Spinach Salad Balls. — Add 13^ cups minced boiled 
spinach to a small cream cheese mashed with 2 yolks of hard- 
cooked eggs, seasoned with salt and paprika, and softened with 
oil or cream. Form into balls, serve on lettuce with cooked 
dressing poured over. 

919. String Bean Salad. — Boil, drain, and marinate in 
spiced vinegar 1 hour 1 qt. string beans. Drain and cover with 
French dressing, and garnish with pimento strips and chopped 
chives. 

920. Sweetbread Salad. — Blanch 1 lb. sweetbreads, trim 
and cut in small pieces. Add 2 cucumbers diced, mix with 
Mayonnaise Cream (853), place on lettuce, and garnish with 
minced truffles, or fill seeded and skinned Malaga grapes with 
a slice of truffle and use as a garnish. 



212 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

921. Sweetbread Salad, St. Regis Style. — Add to 

sweetbreads same amount of shredded celery, and 3 tbsps. Eng- 
lish walnut meats blanched and broken in bits, 3^ cup Malaga 
grapes peeled and seeded, and Mayonnaise Cream flavored with 
tarragon vinegar and lemon juice and a suspicion of sugar. 
Garnish with white celery tips and pimolas cut in thin slices. 

922. Tomato Baskets, a Salad. — Peel uniform tomatoes 
and cut them with a strip across top to form baskets. Scoop out 
centres, dust them inside with salt, and let them stand on ice 
until very cold. Fill them with fresh crab meat mixed with 
mayonnaise dressing and chilli sauce. Use 1 tbsp. chilli sauce 
for each tomato. Serve very cold. 

923. Tomato Creams, Salad. — Mix 1 cup tomato pulp 
with 1 cup clear stock, and cook until reduced one-third. Season 
with salt, paprika, juice of 1 lemon, and add J^ oz. of gelatine 
softened in water. When cool add 3^ cup whipped cream. Fill 
tiny moulds lined with aspic and garnished with truffles and 
cucumbers and pimentoes. When cold turn out on lettuce on 
a spoonful of mayonnaise. Butterfly moulds are very pretty for 
this purpose. 

924. Tomatoes with Cheese Creams. — Whip J^ cup 
cream, add J^ cup aspic jelly, add J^ cup grated cheese — 
Parmesan or cream cheese — season with salt and paprika, and 
turn into tiny thimble-shapyed moulds. Serve on tomato halves 
and cover with French dressing. 

925. Tomato and Pineapple Salad. — Select very small, 
firm tomatoes, peel, and cut them in thick slices. Put 2 to- 
gether with minced cress in French dressing. Marinate in 
French dressing, and serve each sandwich on a slice of pineapple 
on lettuce, and garnish with mayonnaise. 

926. Tomato Stuffed with Salads. — Scald quickly 6 
tomatoes, skin, and place on ice for 2 or 3 hours, scoop out the 
inside, dust with pepper, salt, cayenne, or paprika, invert on a 
sieve and place on ice for an hour, and fill with any of the fol- 
lowing salads: cabbage, celery, chicken, cucumbers, halibut, 
scallops, shrimps, sweetbreads, or water-cress. Or prepare by 
the following methods: 



SALADS 213 

In Aspic. — Fill tomato cups with salad, and cover tops with 
Mayonnaise Jelly (854), garnish with capers and pickles, then 
put them carefully in aspic jelly completely covering them. 

With Caviak. — Mix with the drained tomato pulp caviar, 
chopped cucumbers, chives, and French dressing, fill tomatoes, 
and cover with the lids, with sprigs of parsley between. 

With Celery and Nuts, Salade Delicieuse. — Have to- 
matoes of uniform size and rather small. Fill with celery and 
pecans in French dressing, replace tops, and with a fine tube pipe 
on green butter, using egg white to make it stick, put a sprig of 
parsley in the centre, then pour over aspic jelly until the to- 
matoes are well coated. Serve on lettuce leaves, and pass 
mayonnaise in a bowl. Green butter is creamed butter colored. 

With Celery and Apples. — Add to mayonnaise minced 
celery, diced apple, and 1 tbsp. horseradish, fill and put a spoon- 
ful of salted whipped cream on top of each. 

With Ckeam Cheese. — Blend a small cream cheese with 
sherry and the tomato pulp, mix until soft, add 1 tbsp. minced 
parsley, 2 of finely minced sweet red pepper, 1 teasp. minced 
onion, and J^ teasp. salt. Fill tomatoes, cover top with mayon- 
naise, and serve on lettuce with a stuffed olive on top of each. 
Stone the olive and fill it with capers or anchovy. 

With Pineapple. — Add to shredded pineapple shredded 
celery, and almonds, mix with mayonnaise, fill tomatoes, and 
put on cover, pipe on a star of mayonnaise. 

With Whipped Cream. — Whip 1 cup of cream and add 
drained and squeezed dry, cucumber or horseradish, shredded 
celery, minced green or red pepper, salt and pepper, and a 
little lemon juice. Turn into a glass jar, seal tight, and pack in 
ice and salt until nearly frozen. Fill tomatoes and serve at 
once without dressing. 

927. Tomato Salad Frozen. — Heat 1 can tomatoes with 
J^ teasp. each paprika, cloves, and sugar, 3^ teasp. salt, and 1 
teasp. lemon juice, strain into a mould, pack in ice and salt, and 
when frozen serve with mayonnaise. 

928. Tomato Jelly Salad. — Boil 15 minutes J^ can to- 
matoes, 2 cloves, 3^ bay leaf, J^ teasp. each salt and paprika, 
add 1 tbsp. gelatine dissolved in 3^ cup water, take from fire, 
strain into a border mould, turn out on lettuce, and fill centre 
with celery mayonnaise. Or make a ring mould of unsweetened 



214 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

lemon jelly in which mould tiny balls of cream cheese. Fill 
centre with tomato and celery mixed with mayonnaise. 

929. Tomatoes in Tomato Jelly. — Fill small tomatoes 
with any salad, replace tops, brushing edges with egg white. 
Put a little tomato jelly in cups, when set drop in the stuffed 
tomatoes, fill with the jelly, and when firm dip cups in hot water 
a second, turn out on a bed of water-cress seasoned with French 
Dressing. 

930' Tomatoes Ravigote. — Use small red or yellow egg 
tomatoes, peel and cut in slices, lay on lettuce, and cover with 
Mayonnaise Ravigote (859). 

931. Vegetable Salad Ravigote. — Mix shredded lettuce 
with cooked ham or tongue dice, potato cubes, cucumber slices, 
radish balls, and cucumber pickles minced, with Mayonnaise 
Ravigote (859). 

932. Violet Salad. — Mince 2 tbsps. celery hearts and add 
1 teasp. parsley or chervil and 1 of minced chives, 2 doz. fresh 
violet petals, 1 tbsp. white or red wine, and French dressing. 
Place white endive or chicory in glass salad dish, pour the salad 
over this, and garnish with fresh violets. 

933. Waldorf Salad 1912.— Cut fine 2 cups celery, add 
1 doz. blanched English walnut meats broken in small pieces, 
grated rind of 1 blood orange, 1 cup tart apple dice marinated 
in lemon juice, and Mayonnaise Jelly (854), colored pale green. 
Select fine red apples of uniform size, cut a piece from the top, 
scoop out inside, place in ice-water with lemon juice until re- 
quired, drain, wipe dry, and fill with the salad. Put a spoonful 
of the mayonnaise on top, dust with minced pistachio nuts, 
surmount with a large Maraschino cherry, and serve on white 
lettuce leaves. 

934. Water-cress and Apple Salad. — Cover 2 bunches 
of water-cress with 1 cup sour-apple slices, sprinkle with a few 
drops of lemon juice, cover with French dressing mixed with a 
little pimento, and serve with roast duck. 

935. Yellow Egg Tomato Salad. — Scald, peel, and put 
on ice 1 qt. small yellow egg tomatoes. Serve on green lettuce, 
cover with mayonnaise, and garnish with cucumbers and 
shredded sweet red pepper. 



SALADS 215 



FRUIT SALADS 

Method. — Place fruits on ice with its own juice, when 
very cold drain, add a very little sugar and a pinch of salt. 
Cover tart apples and celery cut into dice with lemon juice to 
keep from discoloring. Mix with dressing and serve at once. 
For all fruit salads, omit onion in dressings and use lemon 
juice instead of vinegar. French dressing with cream, or 
Mayonnaise Cream are suitable for fruit salads. 

936. Apple and Grape-Fruit Salad. — Mix 2 cups apple 
dice sprinkled with lemon juice with the carpels of 1 grape-fruit. 
Serve on lettuce, cover with French dressing with cream, gar- 
nish with Malaga grapes skinned, cut partly in two, seeds re- 
moved, and put together with bits of pimento. 

937. Banana Salad. — Peel and split small bananas into 
halves, lay the two halves on each plate on a lettuce leaf, put a 
spoonful of Mayonnaise Cream between, sprinkle the mayonnaise 
with finely minced English walnut or pecan meats, and the 
bananas with ground pistachio nuts. 

938. Banana Boats. — Take "a strip from top of each ba- 
nana and fill boats with small apple balls to look like peas in a 
pod, and French dressing, or with pineapple, celery, Malaga 
grapes, and bits of pimento and French dressing made with lime 
juice instead of vinegar. 

939. Cherry Salad. — Stone large cherries, fill with 
blanched hazel nuts or filberts, add shredded celery, and serve 
on escarole covered with French dressing, and sprinkled with 
minced chervil. Serve with game. 

940. Chestnut and Fruit Salad.— Blanch J^ lb. of 
chestnuts and boil them with a celery root, bit of bay leaf, and 
small bit of mace. When tender drain and cool, and cut in 
slices, add 3^ the amount of shredded or diced celery and same 
of thinly sliced apple, and mix with Mayonnaise Cream or French 
Cream Dressing. Arrange on lettuce, and garnish with sUces 
of red apple with the skin on. 



216 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

941. Grape Salad. — Skin and seed 1 lb. of Malaga or 
Tokay grapes, fill them with blanched almonds or pecans, cover 
them with Mayonnaise Cream, and garnish with blood-orange 
carpels, and serve with game 

942. Grape-Fruit and Peach Salad. — Grape-fruit car- 
pels, peach dice, shredded almonds, water-cress, French dressing 
on lettuce. 

943. Grape-Fruit and Pineapple Salad. — Cut pine- 
apple in slices, or use best quality of canned fruit. Cover with 
Mayonnaise Cream or French Cream Dressing, lay grape-fruit 
sections across, garnish with bits of blood orange and Malaga 
or Tokay grapes peeled and seeded. 

944. Lemon Jelly and Fruit Salad. — Make a lemon 
jelly after the following recipe: Soak half a package of gelatine 
in 1 cup cold water for an hour, then add J^ cup lemon juice and 
2 cups boiling water. Turn into a bowl, and when jelly is set, 
with a warm spoon scoop out the jelly, leaving a shell an inch 
thick. Fill this with a mixture of oranges, tart apples, and 
celery, which have stood in a French dressing for a few moments. 
Cover with liquid jelly, and when stiffened and ready to serve, 
turn out on leaves of lettuce in a shallow salad bowl. Serve and 
garnish with mayonnaise dressing. 

945. Melon Salad, Cantaloupe or Watermelon. — 

Cut the cantaloupe in cubes and dust them lightly with salt, 
paprika, and a suspicion of cinnamon. FUl a glass jar and 
pack in ice and salt for 2 hours. Add salt and a very little 
dissolved gelatine to }/2 cup whipped cream. Put a spoonful 
of the melon on a lettuce leaf, cover with a spoonful of the 
cream, then pipe a row of Mayonnaise Cream, colored pink, 
around edge, and garnish with carpels of blood orange. 

Watermelon. — Cut melon into balls with potato-ball cutter, 
dust with salt, and put on ice until very cold. Mix them with 
grape-fruit or orange carpels and seeded Malaga grapes, and 
serve on lettuce covered with cream mayonnaise or French 
dressing. 

946. Mixed Fruit Salad. — Shredded pineapple, Malaga 
grapes, pecans, oranges and grape-fruit. Maraschino cherries; or 
cut in small pieces 1 banana, 1 orange, 1 apple, 1 pear, 1 peach. 



SALADS 217 

and 1 large plum. Serve on lettuce covered with mayonnaise 
dressing, dust with minced nuts. 

947. Orange or Tangerine Salad, to Serve with 
Duck. — Cover oranges with French dressing made with tar- 
ragon, no pepper, and pour over a little port wine slightly sweet- 
ened; serve cold. 

948. Peach, Pear, or Plum Salad. — Stone peaches or 
plums, or core pears, fill with cream cheese mixed with cream 
and shredded almonds. Or use canned fruit on lettuce, round 
side down, fill with Cream Mayonnaise, and garnish with red 
pepper. Or use large, ripe fruit, scald and peel, cool and re- 
move stones, and fill with blanched almonds or stick full of 
shredded almonds, cover with French dressing made with lemon, 
and then with whipped cream or with Cream Mayonnaise. 

949. Pear Salad Stuffed. — Peel large, ripe pears, or use 
well-drained canned pears cut in halves and remove cores. Cook 
them in water and lemon juice, and red coloring just long enough 
to color them a light red and to be tender. Drain and cool, 
stuf{ cores with a mayonnaise of mixed fruits and nuts, and 
serve with a cream mayonnaise or French dressing. Or serve 
the fresh pears whole on a leaf of lettuce, pouring cream sea- 
soned with lemon juice, salt, and paprika over them. The 
pears should be cut nearly through in narrow lengthwise slices, 
so they may be taken easily with a fork. 

950. Pear Salad, Waldorf Style. — ^Peel pears and cover 
them with ice-water and lemon juice an hour, drain, and dry. 
Serve on Boston lettuce, and pour over French dressing, to which 
add pimento puree, Oscar sauce, and chilli sauce pressed through 
a sieve, mixed with Mayonnaise Cream Dressing. 

951. Pineapple and Celery Salad. — Slice pineapple, 
sprinkle with juice of J^ lemon, dust with salt and cayenne, cover 
with celery, diced fine and mixed with Mayonnaise Raspberry 
(858), and garnish with any fresh fruit in season. Serve on 
lettuce, or mix and serve in the pineapple shell. 

952. Prune Salad. — Mix French prunes, steamed, stoned, 
and cut in pieces, with shredded nuts, pecans, walnuts, or al- 
monds. Serve on lettuce with a cream mayonnaise, in which 
a little minced celery and pimento is mixed. 



218 



THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 




SALAD ACCESSORIES 

953. Bread Sticks Baked or Fried. — Pull bread dough 
into sticks 3 inches long, and as large around as a lead pencil, let 

rise and bake, or fry in hot 
fat, and serve either warm 
or cold. They are good 
rolled in grated cheese be- 
fore baking or after frying. 

9S4. Brown-Bread 
Rolls. — Cut loaf from top 
instead of ends of entire- 
wheat bread, cut off crust, butter, and cut thin. Roll and trim 
ends evenly, and dip them in beaten egg white, then dip one 
end in very fine parsley and the other in paprika. 

955. Cheese Biscuit. — Mix and sift 2 teasps. baking pow- 
der and }4: teasp. salt with 2 cups of flour and 4 tbsps. each of 
butter and dry, grated cheese. Add milk to make a dough, roll 
out very thin, and cut in fancy shapes. Brush half of them with 
melted butter, cover with the other halves, brush with beaten 
egg white, and bake. Split while warm, spread the filling be- 
tween, reheat, and serve warm. Filling. — Mix half -cup grated 
cheese with 1 tbsp. each of French or German mustard and tar- 
ragon vinegar, and 1 teasp. Worcestershire sauce, season with 
salt and paprika, and add cream to make it soft. 

956. Cheese Biscuits Golden. — Split Sunshine Wafers, 
which are almost as rich as pastry, butter them, dust well with 
grated cheese and paprika, and put in hot oven until cheese is 
melted. 

957. Cheese Crescents.— Roll Near Puff Paste (1222) 
rather thin, cut into crescents, sprinkle generously with grated 
Stilton cheese, dust until quite red with paprika, and bake. 
Serve warm with salad. 

958. Cheese Rings and Straws. — Add 1 tbsp. creamed 
butter to % cup pastry flour. Mix and add 1 cup grated cheese, 
1 of fresh bread crumbs, J^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne, and 
enough milk to form a dough. Roll J^ inch thick, cut in J^- 



SALAD ACCESSORIES 219 

inch strips 6 or 8 inches long. Bake on buttered paper until 
delicate brown, cut several rings from the dough, bake, and slip 
over the straws to hold them in place. 

959. Cheese MufRns. — Make plain wheat-flour mufiin 
mixture, drop in centre of each just before baking a small slice 
of dairy cheese. Bake and serve with salad. 

960. Cheese Toast Hot. — Spread toast with mustard but- 
ter, cover with grated cheese, and dust with paprika. Place in 
hot oven until cheese is melted. Plain butter may be used. 

961. Cheese Wafers Hot. — Use long, narrow wafers, 
spread them with butter, then with cheese softened with cream 
and mixed with minced chives, paprika, and mustard. Put 
them under gas flame until cheese is melted. 

962. Knots to Serve with Salad. — One beaten egg, 4 
tbsps. rich milk, 1 tbsp. cheese, little salt, and flour enough to 
roll. Knead well, roll, cut in strips, and tie in knots. Fry in 
hot lard. 

963. Sliced Beef Wafers.— Cut dried beef in very thin 
slices, and then in rounds the size of a butter-thin cracker. 
Steep them an hour in hot vinegar highly spiced and sweetened. 
Heat the crackers, lay the hot beef upon them, and serve hot. 
These look attractive and are delicious. 

VINEGARS OF DIFFERENT FLAVORS 

964. Cherry Vinegar. — Stem and crush 1 qt. sour cher- 
ries, add 2 qts. cider vinegar, turn into a crock, cover, and let 
stand 4 weeks. Strain, bottle, and use to flavor salads. 

965. Cucumber Vinegar. — Add to 2 qts. cider vinegar 2 
sticks celery, 1 cup capers, and 3 large unpeeled cucumbers 
minced fine. Heat slowly until boiling, cool, and bottle, and 
use to flavor fish, sauces, and salads. 

966. Horseradish Vinegar. — Add to 2 qts. cider vinegar 
6 peppercorns or 1 shredded green pepper, J^ cup white mus- 
tard seed, 1 minced shallot or onion, and 1 pt. grated horse- 
radish. Let stand 2 weeks, strain, and bottle, to use with Edible 
Cocktails. 



220 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

967. Nasturtium Vinegar. — Fill a quart bottle with fresh 
nasturtium pods, fill with vinegar, and after 3 weeks use for 
salads. 

968. Tarragon Vinegar. — ^Fill a 2-qt. jar with fresh tar- 
ragon leaves chopped coarsely, add 6 peppercorns and 4 cloves, 
and fill with cider vinegar. Cover and keep in the cool, turning 
the jar every day. After 3 or 4 weeks strain, and use for flavor- 
ing salads, sauces, etc. 







gv 


P^$ 


1 


i 




^^^pi 



Eggs are often used as entrees at luncheons. Hot cheese 
dishes may also be used as a separate course. Both hot and 
cold cheese mixtures, as well as plain cheese with wafers, 
are served with salad. 

EGGS 

969. 1. Boiled Eggs, Hard. — ^Put eggs in boiling water 
in top of double boiler with boiling water in bottom part, re- 
duce heat, and let stand over very low fire 35 minutes. Plunge 
eggs in cold water. When cold remove shells. If not cooked at 
low temperature they will be tough and indigestible. 

970. 2. Boiled Eggs, Soft. — Cover eggs with cold water, 
and heat slowly to boiling point. Take up and serve. 

971. 3. Boiled Eggs, Soft but Whole.— Cook them in 
simmering water 8 minutes, remove shell while hot, and cover 
with boiling salted acidulated water 3 minutes. Cool on sieve. 
These may be rolled in beaten egg white and dropped in hot oil 
until slightly brown. 

The following recipes are with but few exceptions all 
made with eggs boiled hard by first method. 

972. Eggs Anchovy. — Cut eggs in halves, mash yolks with 
1 tbsp. each melted butter, anchovy paste, and minced ham; 
add a little pimento or paprika. Fill whites, dip edges in beaten 
egg white, press together, and serve with French dressing, or 
place in oven a moment and serve with Caper or Hollandaise 
sauce plain, poured over. 

221 



222 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

973. Egg Apples. — Shell hard-boiled eggs while warm, 
press in each end, put a clove in bottom end, and stem and leaf 
in the other, color sides with red liquid and small brush, and 
serve as a salad or as an entree on a bed of boiled spaghetti dusted 
with cheese, and surround with Cream HoUandaise or Poulette 
sauce. I 

974. Eggs Baked with Cheese. — Butter a baking platter 
and cover it with a layer of grated cheese, break six eggs care- 
fully on the cheese, cover them with a layer of cheese, dust with 
salt, pepper, and paprika, pour over 3^ cup of cream, cover with 
soft bread crumbs rolled in melted butter, dust with salt and 
paprika, and a light sprinkling of mustard if liked, and bake 
until cheese is melted. 

975. Eggs Baked in Nests. — Beat 6 whites very stiff with 
a dusting of salt and pepper. Pile it in buttered nappies, drop 
yolks in centre, dust with salt and, paprika, dot 1 teasp. butter 
on each, and bake 6 or 8 minutes in slow oven. Garnish with 
minced ham and parsley. 

976. Eggs Baked with Poulette Sauce (Eggs Tre- 
vise) . — Line well-buttered nappies with soft bread crumbs, drop 
an egg in each one, dust with pepper and salt, and bake in a pan 
of water until the eggs are set. Turn out on toast, and cover 
with Bechamel Sauce (699) seasoned with tarragon vinegar, 
and garnish with cooked asparagus tips. 

977' Eggs Baked in Ramekins. — Mix 3^ cup thick cream 
with }/2 cup soft crumbs and }/2 teasp. salt. Put a little of the 
mixture in buttered ramekins. Slip in an egg, cover with the 
crumbs and then with buttered crumbs and grated cheese, and 
bake in slow oven 5 or 6 minutes. Serve in the dishes. 

978. Eggs Baked with Spinach. — Line 6 deep buttered 
ramekins with spinach puree, drop an egg in each, dust with 
cheese, salt, and pepper, add a tiny piece of butter, and cover 
with Bechamel Sauce (699). Bake 8 minutes. 

979. Eggs Baked in Tomatoes. — Make tomatoes into 
cups, drop an egg in each, dust with salt, pepper, paprika, and 
minced parsley or grated cheese, fill with Cream Sauce, cover 
with buttered crumbs, and bake 15 minutes. Serve with the 
remainder of sauce poured around. 



EGGS AND CHEESE 223 

980. Eggs with Cheese or Ham. — Cover cold eggs in 
halves or slices with a Cream Sauce mixed with 3^ cup minced 
ham or cheese. 

981. Eggs with Chicken. — Fill egg whites, cut lengthwise, 
with creamed chicken, put on tops, garnish with yolks pressed 
through a sieve, and surround with mushroom sauce. 

982. Egg Croquettes. — Cut hard-boiled eggs in halves, 
mash yolks with 1 tbsp. melted butter, 3^ cup minced ham, 1 
teasp. parsley, J^ teasp. onion, }/8 teasp. salt and cayenne, fill 
whites, dip edges in beaten egg, press together, crumb, egg and 
crumb, fry in deep fat, and serve with HoUandaise Sauce (722). 

983. Eggs in Croustades. — Saut^ round croustades in 
butter, spread them with pate de foie gras. Put eggs, boiled by 
method 3, on end in each box, pour over a Brown Sauce seasoned 
with tomato and Madeira wine. 

984. Eggs Curried. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 1 teasp. 
minced chives until slightly brown, add 1 teasp. curry dissolved 
in a little cold water and 2 tbsps. flour, then 1 cup of white or 
chicken stock, 1 tbsp. cream, 1 of butter, and 1 of tomato puree 
or pulp. Pour over 6 hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. 

985. Egg Custard. — Beat 4 eggs and pour over them 1 
cup milk cooked with 1 teasp. flour 3 minutes. Return to double 
boiler, add salt and paprika, and cook until thick, add 1 tbsp. 
butter, and pour over toast spread with minced ham, bacon, 
anchovy, or sardine paste. 

986. Egg Custard Souffle. — Separate 6 eggs, add to the 
beaten yolks 6 tbsps. strong stock, and to the beaten whites 6 
tbsps. cream, add salt, pepper, and a little onion juice. Fold 
whites into the yolks, turn into buttered patty pans, and bake 
10 minutes. Turn out, cover with cream sauce, and dust with 
Parmesan. 

987- Egg Custards Supreme. — Garnish buttered corru- 
gated moulds with strips of pimento and green pepper. Fill 
with this custard. Beat 3 eggs slightly, and cook with 4 tbsps. 
cream until creamy, take from fire, add 2 eggs slightly beaten 
with J^ teasp. salt and a little pepper, add dash nutmeg, 
turn into the moulds, and cook on paper in pan of hot water. 



224 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

under paper, in oven 10 minutes. Turn out on toast surrounded 
with asparagus covered with minced ham, and pour over Hol- 
landaise Sauce. 

988' Eggs Deviled. — Heat hard-boiled egg slices in 2 
tbsps. butter mixed with J^ cup tomato pulp, 1 tbsp. Worcester- 
shire, and }4 teasp. mustard, and serve on toast spread with 
anchovy paste. 

989- Eggs in Egg Timbales. — Cut in two 3 hard-cooked 
eggs. Beat 3 yolks with 3^ cup milk seasoned with salt, pa- 
prika, minced parsley, and onion juice; add 1 teasp. butter and 
the beaten whites. Half-fill buttered and bread-crumb-lined 
timbale moulds, drop an egg half, round end down, in each one, 
cover with remainder of custard, and bake 15 minutes. Turn 
out and serve with sauce. Sauce. — Cook 2 slices of onion and 
2 cloves in 2 tbsps. butter, add 1}/^ cups milk, and when boiling 
strain onto 3^ cup soft bread crumbs mixed with a little minced 
green and red pepper, add salt, and cook 10 minutes. 

990. Eggs Fried (Aromatique) . — Roll hard-boiled eggs 
in beaten egg and then in Batter (775), fry in deep fat, lay them 
on toast, dust with minced fresh mint, and surround with a thin 
tomato sauce. 

597. Eggs Fried (Callabrais). — Cut cold hard-boiled 
eggs in two, remove yolks, and stuff whites with bread crumbs 
mixed with minced red and green peppers, softened with stock. 
Dip edges in beaten egg, press them together, roll them in egg, 
then in batter, and fry in deep fat. Set them on end in rings of 
toast, and cover them with a Brown Sauce seasoned with ham, 
tomato, and currant jelly. 

992. Eggs Fried (Espagnole). — Cut hard-boiled eggs in 
two. Mix yolks with 3 tbsps. cream and 3 each of minced mush- 
rooms, green pepper, and pimolas, and fill whites well. Dip in 
egg white, put together, egg and crumb, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with Cream Tomato Sauce (752). 

993. Eggs au Gratin with Green Peppers. — Chop 5 
hard-boiled eggs, add 3^ cup minced ham, and fill a buttered dish 
lined with crumbs with alternate layers of the eggs and Cream 
Sauce, dusting sauce with salt, finely minced and parboiled green 
peppers, minced parsley, and chives. Spread crumbs on top, 



EGGS AND CHEESE 225 

dot with butter, and bake, or turn the mixture in green peppers 
and bake. 

994- Eggs and Ham in English Muffins (Eggs Bene- 
dictine) • — Split muffins and toast them, then spread them with 
butter and minced ham, or thin slices of raw ham soaked in milk 
and broiled, and drop a medium-soft-boiled egg on each muffin, 
spread with foie gras, and pour over a Brown Sauce in which are 
slivers of mushrooms. A canned mushroom of rather low price 
will do for this dish if the fresh ones are out of the question. 
Also substitute a Hollandaise or Bearnaise sauce in place of the 
mushroom sauce if preferred. 

995- Eggs Poached. — Butter saut^ pan, partly fill with 
milk or cream, add 1 teasp. salt, heat, and when just below 
boiling-point slip eggs in carefully, one by one. When white is 
set run a broad spatula under, place each one on a piece of toast, 
spread with finely minced ham and pour over Beurre Noir (701), 
or Bechamel and Bacon sauce, or Cream sauce seasoned with 
1 tbsp. each tomato catsup and anchovy paste or minced an- 
chovies. 

996. Eggs Poached with Artichokes, or Eggs Bar le 
Due. — Cover 6 rounds of toast with 6 artichoke fonds (the 
canned ones). Put a whole poached egg in centre of each, and 
cover with a Brown Sauce seasoned with ham and currant jelly, 
and dust eggs with minced chervil. A teasp. of bar le due is 
often used instead of this jelly, and then they are called Eggs 
Bar le Due. 

997. Eggs Poached with Caramel Sauce (Eggs Zin- 
gara) . — ^Put the eggs on rounds of toast, and cover with a rich 
Brown Sauce seasoned with caramel and filled with shreds of ham 
and strips of mushrooms and traffics. 

998. Eggs Poached with Ham and Sauce Holland- 
aise. — Poach 6 eggs and place them on rounds of toasted rice 
or bread covered with a thin slice of boiled ham. Dust well 
with minced truffles and garnish with strips of sweet red pep- 
per, and pour over them a Hollandaise Sauce. 

999. Eggs Poached with Madeira Sauce (Rossini). — 

Cover toast with foie gras and minced truffles. Lay a poa.ched 
egg on each, and cover with a Madeira Sauce. 



226 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1000. Poached Eggs on Tomato Toast. — To a tomato 
sauce add 1 teasp. minced onion and 1 tbsp. minced green pepper, 
and cover toast. Drop a poached egg on each, dot with butter 
and parsley, and serve. 

1001. Eggs with Piquante Sauce. — Place halves of 
hard-boiled eggs on rings of toast and cover with this sauce. 
To 1 cup brown sauce add 1 tbsp. each chilli sauce, Worces- 
tershire, minced green or red pepper, currant jelly, and mild 
tarragon vinegar; add 3^ teasp. each mustard and paprika. 

1002. Eggs Ragout in Pastry Cases. — Line small 
moulds with a good pastry, then with buttered paper and rice, 
and bake. Remove paper and brush with beaten egg, and re- 
turn to oven to brown. Remove from moulds, fill with the 
following, and serve at luncheon. Ragout. — Cut 6 hard-cooked 
eggs in' thin slices, add 1 cup of cream sauce, add J^ cup cooked 
mushrooms cut in dice, and same of ham or tongue dice. When 
hot add paprika, salt, a grating of cheese, and J^ cup of cream. 

1003. Eggs and Tomatoes, Sauce Espagnole. — Boil 
6 eggs and keep them warm after peeling them. Pour half of 
the sauce over 6 rounds of entire-wheat bread toast, lay the eggs 
upon them, and pour over the remainder of the sauce. 

1004. Eggs with Truffles (Soubeyron). — Boil the eggs 
by method 3, and put them on oval pieces of toast covered 
with Bechamel Sauce (699) sprinkled with minced truffles. Dust 
the eggs with a very little finely minced ham, chives, or chervil, 
and serve very hot. 

1005. Eggs and Tongue with Red Sauce. — Lay thin 
slices of smoked tongue on thin pieces of slightly toasted bread 
on a platter, cover with poached eggs, pour over Tomato Sauce, 
Cardinal (751), cover with buttered crumbs, and place under 
fire or in hot oven until brown and serve in the platter. 

Omelettes 

1006. Foamy Omelette. — Beat 3 yolks until very light, 
add 2 tbsps. thin cream, salt, and pepper, dash cayenne, fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites. Or cut in half the beaten whites, 
turn into the pan, and when nearly done spread the remainder 
of the whites seasoned with salt and pepper, fold, and cook. 



EGGS AND CHEESE 227 

1007. French Omelette. — Beat 2 whole eggs and 2 extra 
yolks until very light, add 3 tbsps. cold water or thin cream, 34 
teasp. salt, and cook as directed below. If serving without 
filling, roll with knife, brown slightly, and serve brown side up. 

Method. — Turn omelette into clean, smooth, hot iron pan — 
a pan should be kept for this purpose only — ^with 2 teasps. boil- 
ing butter, shake gently, cook slowly, and draw eggs from side 
of pan so that they will all cook evenly, cut across top when 
golden-brown, fold over, and serve. Make 2 omelettes for 6 
people. Add, before folding, any of the following : 

Artichokes. — Saut^ J^ cup artichokes, diced in 1 tbsp. but- 
ter, and season with onion and parsley or nutmeg, and put in 
oven to dry as soon as it is set. 

Chartreuse. — ^Fill with hard-boiled egg diced, green peas, 
and mushroom slices in cream sauce. 

With Cheese. — Add 2 tbsps. grated cheese before filling. 

With Chicken Livers. — Add 3 livers boiled and cut in small 
pieces and mixed with sauce made of 1 tbsp. butter browned 
with 1 of flour, J^ cup liver gravy, dash salt, and pepper. Fold 
in. 

With Fine Herbs. — One teasp. onion minced and sauted in 
1 tbsp. butter, add 2 or 3 mushrooms and 2 trufiles, chopped, 
dash salt and pepper, 1 tbsp. parsley minced, and 2 tbsps. cream. 
Fold in. 

With Kidneys. — Slice 1 cup kidney and saute 5 minutes in 
1 tbsp. butter, mix with sauce made of 1 tbsp. flour browned, 1 
of vinegar, 1 of chopped parsley, }/2 cup stock. Fold in. 

With Lobster Meringue. — Beat 3 yolks, add salt and pep- 
per, a few drops tarragon vinegar, a very little mustard, and 1 
cup finely cut lobster. Turn into omelette pan and cook in 1 
tbsp. butter. When nearly set cover with the whites beaten 
very stiff with a dash of salt and pepper. Put pan in oven 
and cook until meringue is slightly brown, and serve without 
folding. 

With Oysters. — Parboil 1 cup oysters, drain and chop fine, 
mix with }/^ cup cream and 1 egg yolk, season with dash salt> 
pepper, and nutmeg. 

1008' Omelette, Spanish Style. — Cook 1 tbsp. onion 
with 2 of butter, add J^ a minced green pepper, a few minced 
mushrooms, and 1 chopped tomato 15 minutes, dust with salt, 
and fold in a French omelette. 



228 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1009. Omelette with Spinach. — Mince boiled spinach 
very fine, add 1 cup Brown Sauce, add dash nutmeg, and fold 
into a French omelette. 



CHEESE 

All recipes marked "Entrees" may be served as a separate 
course, or with salad. All others to be served only with 
salad. When the word " cheese " is referred to in the recipes, 
it means plain American dairy cheese. 

1010. Cheese and Apples Cold. — Mix cream cheese with 
grated cheese and enough cream to make it soft, and spread on 
round slices of cored red apple. 

1011. Cheese Balls Cold. — 1. Mix and soften cream 
cheese with cream, add salt, a few drops sherry, and roll into 
small balls with butter paddles, and serve in the centre of roses 
or chrysanthemums with the centre petals removed. 

2. Separate the softened cream cheese into 3 or 4 parts, add 
minced chives or green pepper to 1 part, minced pecans to an- 
other, minced red pepper to another, and minced pistathio 
nuts to another, which gives them all a beautiful pastel color; 
and serve pUed in a pyramid on a glass dish, with salads, or roll 
the plain balls in pistachio, pimento, and pecans, and serve 
with bar le due and salad. 

3. Mix cream cheese with cream, sherry, and blanched and 
minced almonds, make into balls, and stick full of split almonds. 

4. Mix cream cheese with 2 tbsps. Rochefort, 1 teasp. lemon 
juice, salt, paprika, 1 tbsp. each olive oil, Worcestershire, French 
mustard, and 3^ cup blanched and minced English walnuts. 
Form into balls with butter paddles. 

5. Mix hard-cooked yolks with cream cheese and Rochefort, 
soften with cream, flavor with salt, paprika, and a few drops of 
brandy, roll into balls and roll the balls in the minced egg white, 
and serve with tomato salad. 

1012. Cheese Boulettes Hot. — Mix IJ^ cups dairy 
cheese with 1 tbsp. flour, 34 teasp. each salt and paprika, 1 
teasp. Parmesan, and 3 egg whites beaten very stiff. Form into 
small balls, roll in fine bread crumbs, and fry in hot deep fat. 



EGGS AND CHEESE 229 

1013. Cheese Bars Cold. — Mix cream cheese with minced 
pimentoes, green string beans, olives, salt, paprika, and cream 
to make soft. Press into a shallow buttered pan, put on ice, 
and when very cold cut into bars and serve with salad. Or mix 
the cheese with orange, grape-fruit, or gooseberry marmalade. 

1014. Cheese Balls with Tomato Sauce, Entree, Hot. 

■ — Mix a 10-cent cream cheese with J^ cup grated cheese, add 1 
cup soft bread crumbs, salt, paprika, 1 teasp. any good table 
sauce, 2 beaten yolks, and 1 beaten white. Make into balls, 
roll in beaten egg white and in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with Tomato Cream Sauce (752). 

1015. Cheese in Celery or Endive or Fruits, Cold. 

■ — Mix cream cheese with minced pimentoes, olives, green pep- 
pers, or chives, soften with cream, and press into large, hollow 
sticks of celery, French endive, or into green pepper, lemon, or 
tangerine-orange shells. When very cold cut the celery or 
endive in short sticks, and the fruits in thin slices or quarters. 
Rochefort cheese may also be added to the mixture. 

1016. Cheese Charlottes Cold.— Mix H of a small 
cream cheese, 1 tbsp. Rochefort mashed, }/i teasp. each salt and 
paprika, 2 teasps. gelatine dissolved in a little hot water and 
cooled, and 1 cup whipped cream. Fill Swedish timbale cases 
and when very cold serve with bar le due and pulled bread, with 
or without salad. 

1017. Cheese Cream Cold. — ^Mix J^ a 10-cent cream 
cheese with J^ lb. Rochefort, salt, cayenne, 2 tbsps. pimento 
puree, and enough thick cream, to which add a few drops of 
brandy or sherry to make it very soft. Whip it light, and press 
through potato ricer onto a glass dish. 

1018. Cheese Cream Hearts (Fromage a la Crime) 
Cold. — Set 1 qt. of rich milk in warm place on back of stove 
until it curdles. Pour into cheese-cloth bag, and hang it to drip 
12 hours. Now mix it with 1 cup of thick cream whipped, add 
a little salt, and turn it into shallow heart-shaped baskets lined 
with wet cheese-cloth or linen, and in 12 hours turn it out and 
serve with bar le due or gooseberry jam, with or without a salad. 

1019. Cream Cheese with Anchovy Timbales, Hot 
Entree. — Press 6 boned and skinned anchovies through a 



230 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

sieye, add 1 teasp. anchovy essence, 4 egg yolks, 1 at a time, 
4 tbsps. cream, and a dash of cayenne, and color red, add 2 egg 
whites beaten stiff, and turn into buttered and bread-crumb- 
lined timbale moulds, and bake on paper in pan of water cov- 
ered with buttered paper 15 minutes. Turn out and pour over 
Cheese Cream Sauce (705). 

1020. Cheese Crescents Hot. — Cook 3 tbsps. butter 
with 4 of flour until smooth, add ^ cup milk, little salt, cayenne, 
and mustard, 1 cup dairy cheese cut in dice, 1 tbsp. Parmesan, 
and 2 egg yolks. When quite thick take from fire, spread in 
shallow buttered pans, and when cold cut in small crescents; 
crumb, egg, crumb, and keep in the cool until ready to serve. 
Fry in deep fat. One minced truflSe may be added to mixture. 

1021. Cheese Croustad^s Hot. — ^Make 6 small heart- 
shaped Bread Croustades (791), brush with butter, fill with 4 
tbsps. grated cheese mixed with 2 tbsps. butter, 3 tbsps. cream, 
and J^ teasp. each salt, mustard, and paprika. Place in hot 
oven until brown. 

1022. Cheese Deviled Cold. — Mash and beat until light 
}/2 lb. rich cheese with 1 tbsp. creamed butter, 2 tbsps. tarragon 
vinegar, dash cayenne, and 1 teasp. each sugar, mustard, Oscar 
sauce, and Worcestershire. Spread on hot toasted crackers and 
serve at once. 

1023. Cheese Drops Hot.— Melt 2 tbsps. butter, add 3 
tbsps. flour, J^ teasp. each salt, paprika, and mustard, 5 tbsps. 
grated cheese, and 3 egg whites beaten very stiff. Drop from 
teasp. on buttered tin and bake. 

1024. Cheese Mousse Cold. — To 2 cups of clear, highly 
seasoned white stock add 1 tbsp. tarragon vinegar and cook 
until reduced to 1 cup; when this is cool and jelly again, whip it 
until spongy, and add ^ cup whipped cream, 3^ cup of grated 
dairy or Cheddar cheese, 2 tbsps. Parmesan, 1 egg white whipped 
stiff, salt, and paprika, and fill small moulds lined with aspic 
jelly and serve with salad. 

1025. Cheese Puffs Cold. — Cook J^ cup water with 2 
tbsps. butter and 3^ teasp. sugar until boiling, add slowly 3 
tbsps. cornstarch, and cook until mixture leaves side of pan. 
Turn into a bowl, add one at a time 1 whole egg and 2 extra 



EGGS AND CHEESE 231 

yolks. Beat well and add 3 tbsps. grated cheese. Press 
through pastry bag onto a wet tin, in small balls. Sprinkle with 
Parmesan and paprika, and bake 15 minutes; when cold cut 
open, fill with salad, and cover again, or make into tiny balls 
and serve with soup or salad. Or fill them when cold with 
whipped cream, to which add a little pat^ de foie gras, salt, 
and paprika, and serve with salad or as a garnish to cold entries. 

1026. Cheese Ramekins, Entree, Hot. — Line sides of 
ramekin dishes with plain or pu£F paste. Mix 1 cup cream with 
}/2 cup grated cheese, 2 tbsps. Parmesan, 3 beaten eggs, salt and 
paprika, and a very little pinch of mustard. Beat well, fill the 
ramekins, and bake 12 minutes. Serve in the ramekins. 

1027. Cheese ki Hot Rosettes Hot. — Make Swedish 
Rosettes (806). To 1 cup hot melted cheese add 1 beaten egg, 
3^ teasp. paprika, and }/2 cup whipped cream. Drop a tbsp. 
of this on each rosette and serve. 

1028. Cheese Souffle, Hot Entree. — Cook 1 cup rich 
milk with 1 cup grated cheese, 1 tbsp. butter, 3^ cup soft bread 
crumbs, 34 teasp. salt, paprika, and mustard 3 minutes. Take 
from fire, pour onto 3 beaten yolks, fold in the beaten whites, 
bake 20 or 25 minutes in slow oven, and serve at once. This 
may be baked in one large buttered dish or in small ramekins. 

1029. Cheese Tartlettes, Hot Entree. — Add to a rich 
Cream Sauce J^ cup grated Cheese, 3^ teasp. paprika, salt, and 1 
tbsp. sherry. Fill tartlettes of puff paste. Reheat and serve. 

1030. Cheese Timbales, Hot Entree. — Scald 1 cup 
milk, add to 3 slightly beaten eggs, add 3^ cup grated cheese, a 
little salt, paprika, and onion juice. Butter small timbale 
moulds, line with minced green or red peppers or canned pimen- 
toes and truflBes, fill % full, bake slowly on paper in pan of 
water covered with paper. Turn out and serve with salad or 
as an entree covered with Tomato Cream Sauce (752). 




Desserts or Sweets should include the three following 
sections, as a dish from any of the three would be a sufficient 
dessert or sweet for any luncheon. At the formal dinner a 
hot dessert may possibly be followed by a frozen cream or ice, 
but the dinner or luncheon is quite long enough with one 
sweet finish. Cold desserts of cream or jelly may be accom- 
panied by dainty cakes and cake, or cakes alone may be 
served as a dessert at luncheons. 

To clear the table for dessert, everything in front of each 
guest, except the glasses, should be removed from the right, 
as another plate does not immediately replace the one taken; 
then take everything else from the table, leaving only the nuts 
and bonbons, the decorations, and illuminations. If there 
are any crumbs, with a napkin quietly dust every vestige 
into a plate. This is rarely necessary at a formal meal, and 
should be avoided if possible. If it is the informal meal, re- 
move platters or large dishes first, then the carving or tray 
napkin, if one be used, fold over from the ends and take 

up carefully, then proceed as for 
the formal dinner. Fill goblets 
^S±}^£9 vnXh water. When everything is 

in readiness bring the dessert. 
Dessert at formal dinners is 
either served from the butler's 
pantry and placed or passed, or 
232 




COLD DESSERTS 233 

it is placed on the table before the hostess, who may serve 
it, and afterward passed. Forks should be used when- 
ever it is possible, always with frozen pudding or cream, 
and also a spoon. Dessert plates should be small and choice. 
The proper fork and spoon for dessert should be placed at 
the right and left just before the course is served. When at 
an informal dinner every one has finished, remove the plat- 
ter or dish first, if it has been served by the hostess, then 
remove the plates from the right, as this is the last course. 
If cheese has not been in the menu, it may now be served, 
if served at all, with wafers. Now place the finger bowls 
according to directions given previously and pass bonbons. 
Every cook or housekeeper is supposed to be sufficiently 
familiar with the manipulation of puddings and pastries as 
to require but little explanation. As long as a dessert or 
sweet dish of some kind is the finish of one, and often two, 
meals a day, the desire of the majority is for variety rather 
than explicit detail — too often needlessly repeated. There- 
fore, the following recipes are curtailed as much as possible 
in order to make room for many. Lemon juice and nutmeg 
may be used instead of wine or brandy in the following 
recipes. 

COLD DESSERTS 
Cake Puddings 

1031. Alaska Pudding. — Sprinkle 3 layers of sponge cake 
with sherry, fill, and cover with rich boiled custard. Then com- 
pletely cover with meringue and brown in oven. Fruit may be 
added to custard. Serve cold. 

1032. Angel Pudding. — Sift 5 times J^ cup pastry flour, 
}/^ teasp. cream tartar, and ]/i teasp. salt, add ^ cup fine granu- 
lated sugar, sift 3 times, fold in 5 large egg whites beaten stiff, 
and flavor with almond. Bake in tube pan. When nearly cold 



234 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

surround cake with Boiled Custard Souffl^ which has been 
packed in a jar in ice and salt until nearly frozen, and cover 
cake with whipped cream mixed with candied fruit. 

1033. Chocolate or Coffee Puff with Bonbon Cream. 

— Make Choux Paste in small puffs, and bake them close to- 
gether on a pie tin, also make small eclairs. Fill both with 
chocolate or coffee custard. Dip edges of eclairs in hot sirup, 
and set them upright around a basin. When cold slip them 
from basin onto serving dish, fill with whipped cream filled with 
bonbons, cover with the puffs, glaze them with hot sirup, and 
dust with nuts. 

1034. Cream Chocolate Pudding. — Scoop out centre of 
a loaf of sponge cake. Melt 4 tbsps. chocolate in 2 tbsps. hot 
water, add ]/2 cup sugar, and when cool add dash salt, vanilla, 
or orange flavoring, and 1 cup of cream whipped. Fill cake and 
spread over top. 

1035. Giteau St. Honore. — ;Lay a round of Near Puff 
Paste (1222) on tin, prick and brush with egg yolk and water, 
pipe around edge a border of Choux Paste, put a spoonful in cen- 
tre, and bake. Make tiny cream puffs, bake and fill them with 
thick custard, dip them in hot caramel, and lay them on the 
border, fill between them glac^d Malaga grapes, orange quar- 
ters, and cherries. Fill centre with the cream, piling it high in 
centre. Cream. — Beat 5 egg yolks stiff, add J^ cup sugar, 1 
tbsp. cornstarch, and 1 cup scalded cream, cook 3 minutes, add 
stiffly beaten whites, 1 teasp. vanilla, 1 of sherry, and 1 of 
Kummel liqueur and little salt. 

1036. Genoise Pudding.— Make Genoise Cake (1566) in 
ring mould, cover it with coffee or vanilla frosting, garnish with 
candied ginger and cherries and pecans, fill centre with whipped 
cream mixed with a few marshmallows cut in bits, and serve 
surroimded with a rich boiled custard. 

1037. Macaroon Pudding. — Line a buttered baking dish 
with 1 doz. macaroons soaked in sherry. Mix 4 beaten eggs 
with 4 tbsps. brown sugar, 2 cups milk, and 1 cup each stale 
sponge-cake crumbs and minced almonds; flavor with 1 teasp. 
almond and fill dish. Cover and bake in pan of hot water until 
custard is set. When very cold serve with whipped cream. 



COLD DESSERTS 235 

1038. Mocha Caramel Cakes with Fruit Macedoine. 

— Cut out centres of small white individual cakes, remove 
crumbs, fill with Mocha Custard (1096), replace lid, spread with 
Mocha Filling (1602), roll sides in minced and browned almonds. 
When dry pipe Mocha butter around edge, garnish with candied 
cherries, and serve with a spoonful of Fruit Macedoine (1116) 
on the side. 

1039. Sponge Cake with Cream Filling. — Cut a lid 

from the top of a round sponge cake, scoop out centre, fill with 
Bavarian Cream mixed with caramel candy and bits of red-rasp- 
berry jelly or with Chocolate Charlotte Russe, replace top, cover 
with coffee frosting, and garnish with browned almonds and 
candied cherries. 

1040. Sponge Cake Pudding with Fruit (Cabinet 
Pudding). — Line a mould in layers with candied fruits and 
shredded almonds, boiled custard made with gelatine, sponge 
cake slices, and macaroons, add a few drops of brandy, place on 
ice 2 hours or more. Turn out, garnish with whipped cream and 
bits of currant jelly. 

1041. Sponge and Fruit Cake Cream (English 
Trifle) . — Line mould with a layer of cake, sprinkle with sherry, 
and spread with jelly, fill with alternate layers of fruit cake 
soaked in brandy, macaroons, minced almonds, and jelly, fill 
with whipped cream, and cover with another layer of cake. Put 
on ice 2 hours, turn out, and garnish with whipped cream dusted 
with the nuts. 

1042. Sponge Cake Pudding with Macaroons 
(Giteau Delphine). — Dip macaroon edges in sugar sirup, 
and place upright around an oval sheet of sponge cake, fill with 
Italian Meringue (1454), garnish with candied fruit, and serve 
very cold. 

1043. Sponge Cake with Pineapple Hearts (St. Val- 
entine's Pudding). — ^Toast rounds of sponge cake. Cover 
each with a slice of Tunisian Orange (1808). Cook slices of pine- 
apple a moment in red-colored sirup, lay one on each piece of 
cake, pipe whipped cream flavored with Maraschino around 
edge, and dust with minced pistachio nuts. 



236 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



Creams 

The different creams are the following: 

Blanc Mange, cooked and composed of milk, sugar, Irish 
moss or arrowroot, and flavoring. 

Bavarian Creams (Bavaroise), cooked and composed of 
eggs, milk, sugar, gelatine, cream, and flavoring. 

Charlotte russe, composed of whipped cream, sugar, eggs, 
little or no gelatine, and flavoring in a setting of sponge cake. 

Junkets, composed of milk, sugar, flavoring, and junket 
tablet. 

Plain creams, cooked and composed of milk or cream, 
sugar, gelatine, and flavoring. 

Plain creams, uncooked, the same as charlotte russe, but 
served in individual glasses instead of cake. They are usually 
covered with Italian meringue, fruit, or water ice. 

Spanish creams, cooked and composed of yolks or whites 
of eggs, or both, milk, sugar, gelatine, and flavoring. 

1044. Blanc Mange. — To 2 cups hot milk add J^ cup Irish 
moss or J^ oz. gelatine or 4 tbsps. arrowroot softened in J^ cup 
milk, J^ cup sugar, and pinch of salt, and cook until it thickens 
slightly, take from fire, add flavoring, beat until cool. Serve 
with whipped cream or add 3^ cup to mixture when cool. With 
almond flavor, make blanc mange with arrowroot, add 1 cup 
almonds blanched and pounded fine, and soaked in 1 cup of the 
hot milk. When cool flavor with 1 teasp. almond extract, and 
add cream. With chocolate, make the blanc mange with gela- 
tine, add while hot 2 squares grated chocolate melted over hot 
water, and flavor with vanilla, rum and orange juice. 

1045. Bavarian Cream or Bavaroise. — Soak ^ oz. or 
^}/2 tbsps. gelatine in J^ cup cold water. Scald 1^ cups milk, 

pour onto 2 yolks beaten with J^ cup sugar. Return to double 
boiler, add 1 teasp. butter, little salt, gelatine, cook until mixt- 
ure coats spoon, strain, beat and cool, add egg whites beaten 



COLD DESSERTS 237 

stiff, 1 cup whipped cream, and flavoring. Turn into wet mould, 
place on ice for 3 hours or more. If cream must stand long after 
it is taken from mould, a full ounce or half box of gelatine must 
be used. To facilitate unmoulding, line mould with strips of 
wax paper with projecting ends. A delicious flavoring for plain 
cream is vanilla bean and a little lemon and orange peel cooked 
with the milk. 

1046. Almond or Hazel Nut Bavaroise. — Add 1 cup 

almonds or hazel nuts ground fine and }4 teasp. almond extract 
to the milk in recipe for Bavarian Cream. 

1047. Banana Bavaroise. — Add peeled and mashed ba- 
nanas to Bavarian Cream with the juice of 1 orange. This may 
be moulded in alternate layers with rum jelly. 

1048. Chantilly Bavaroise. — Line a mould with 1 doz. 
lady fingers and 1 doz. macaroons by dipping edges in hot sirup, 
add a layer of whipped cream sweetened and flavored and 
streaked with red coloring, put on ice for an hour. Fill with 
Chocolate Bavaroise. Unmould and garnish with glaced fruit, 
or use brandied or candied fruit. 

1049. Chocolate Bavaroise. — Add to Bavarian Cream ^ 
cup grated chocolate and 1 teasp. brandy. 

1050. Chocolate and Fruit Bavaroise. — Add to Choco- 
late Bavaroise grated peel of 1 lemon, 1 cup dry candied or 
brandied fruits cut small, 1 cup lady fingers or sponge cake in 
crumbs, 2 tbsps. Noyaux or Benedictine cordial, and 1 teasp. of 
vanilla, and fill mould lined with lemon jelly. Serve with Fruit 
Macedoine or Boiled Custard Soufile. 

1051. Chocolate Mocha Bavaroise. — Line a mould with 
a thin layer of mild lemon jelly flavored slightly with rum, then 
put in a layer of jelly cream colored pink, garnish in alternate 
rows with minced and browned almonds and pistachio nuts, 
also minced. When set, fill with Chocolate Bavaroise, using 
strong coffee to soften gelatine instead of water, place on ice, and 
when very cold turn out and serve with rich boiled custard 
flavored with orange juice and a few d!rops of rum. 

y052. Coffee Bavaroise. — Add to Bavarian Cream ]/2 
cup very strong coffee, to be used instead of water to soften 



238 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

gelatine, and flavor with coffee extract. Or fill Swedish Tim- 
bale cups with coffee bavaroise, cover with a meringue, brown 
in oven, and serve cold. Browned and minced almonds or 
pounded caramel candy may be sprinkled on the meringue be- 
fore browning it. 

1053- Diplomatic Cream Bavaroise. — Line a mould 
with lemon jelly, dip candied fruit in jelly, and garnish with 
minced pistachio nuts, pour in some Bavarian Cream flavored 
with a little rum and sherry and grated lemon peel, add a layer 
of sponge-cake slices and more fruit, and fill with the cream. 

1054- Fruit Bavaroise en Surprise. — Line mould with 
wine jelly, garnish with minced pistachio nuts and shredded 
almonds, put a bowl in mould, when set fill space between with 
jelly. When set again remove bowl, and fill with the Bavarian 
Cream filled with ]/2 cup each chopped candied fruit and maca- 
roon crumbs, and 1 tbsp. of sherry. Oranges and grapes glac^d 
may also be used as a garnish. 

1055. Ginger Bavaroise. — Line a mould with lemon jelly, 
garnish with preserved ginger, and fill with Bavarian Cream, to 
which add 3^ cup preserved ginger, 2 tbsps. sherry, and 2 of 
Maraschino. 

1056. Macaroon Bavaroise. — Add to Bavarian Cream 
}/2 lb. macaroon crumbs and J^ cup candied cherries, using a 
little less gelatine in the cream. 

1057. Orange Bavaroise in Oranges. — ^Make Bavarian 
Cream with J^ cup orange juice instead of all milk, and fill 
orange or basket shells. Cover with a meringue mixed with a 
little whipped cream. 

1058. Pineapple Bavaroise. — Add to Bavarian Cream 1 
cup shredded pineapple and a few whole strawberries if liked. 
Use a little more sugar and gelatine, add fruit just before turn- 
ing into mould. Serve with the pineapple juice and some of 
the other fruit. 

1059. Charlotte Russe. — ^This is a cream moulded in 
sponge-cake strips or lady fingers or in a box of sponge cake, and 
if to be used at once may be made without gelatine. If it is to 
stand long before serving, a small amount of gelatine will hold 



COLD DESSERTS 239 

it firm. Mix 1 pt. whipped cream with J/^ cup powdered sugar, 
a little salt, 3 stiffly beaten egg whites or yolks, 1 tbsp. of 
flavoring, and 1 tbsp. gelatine softened and dissolved over hot 
water in 3 tbsps. milk. Line a mould greased with olive oil 
with 3^ lb. sponge-cake strips or lady fingers, fill, and place on 
ice for an hour or more. If a delicate cream is desired, use the 
egg white; if a rich yellow cream, use the yolks. This may be 
flavored with vanilla, sherry, brandy, or fruit juice, melted 
chocolate, and vanilla, or strong coffee or caramel. If fruit be 
used, add a little more gelatine. 

1060- Caramel and Burnt Almond Bonbon Char- 
lotte. — Add to Charlotte Russe, flavored with caramel and va- 
nilla, 1 cup each burnt almonds and caramel candy pounded 
fine. To make the caramel candy, burn the sugar, add a very 
little water, turn it onto greased plates, when cold break in 
pieces, and grind it fine. Soften gelatine in the caramel. 

1061. Coffee Charlotte. — Charlotte Russe with gelatine 
softened in very strong coffee instead of milk. 

1062. French Fruit Charlotte.— Charlotte Russe fla- 
vored with 3^ teasp. each vanilla and almond, and 1 teasp. 
brandy, J^ doz. marshmallows, 1 doz. each chopped raisins or 
whole sultanas, blanched and shredded almonds and pecans, and 
1 tbsp. each candied citron, cherries, orange peel, and angelica 
cut in small pieces. 

1063. Grape Juice Charlotte. — Use grape juice instead 
of milk, and garnish with Tokay grapes peeled and seeded. 
They will peel easily if plunged in boihng water, then in cold 
water. 

1064. Macaroon Charlotte. — Charlotte Russe flavored 
with bitter almond, 1 cup finely pounded macaroons, and 3^ cup 
minced almonds. 

1065. Maraschino Charlotte. — Charlotte Russe flavored 
with Maraschino, and filled with 1 cup candied, brandied, or 
Maraschino cherries. 

1066. Plain Creams Cooked, without Eggs. — Heat 2 
cups rich milk, add J^ cup powdered sugar, little salt, and 13^ 
tbsps. gelatine softened in 3^ cup cold water, strain, add flavor- 
ing, mould, and serve very cold. 



240 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1067. Coffee, Chocolate or Fancy Creams. — ^Make 
Plain Cream Cooked with half hot coffee and half milk, or 
add to milk 2 squares melted chocolate. Or make Plain Cream, 
add almond or white cordial flavoring, fill empty egg-shells, 
and set them in a bed of ice and salt. Color lemon or wine 
jelly violet, yellow, or pink, cut in cubes, and serve with the 
eggs in centre. Dip shells in warm water an instant, crack 
shells, and eggs will come out easily. 

1068. Neapolitan Creams. — Make Plain Cream Cooked, 
also lemon or wine jelly. Separate the cream into 3 or 4 por- 
tions, color each a different color, having 1 coffee, 1 chocolate, 
1 pink, and leave 1 white. Line small moulds with jelly — a swan 
mould is especially pretty — fill with the cream, and place on ice. 
Serve them on a bed of chopped jelly. 

1069. Spanish Creams. — Soften IJ^ tbsps. gelatine in J^ 
cup cold water. Mix 2 cups hot rich milk or thin cream with 2 
«gg yolks beaten, J^ cup sugar, cook a moment, add gelatine, 
and when dissolved cool and add beaten egg whites and fiavor- 
ing, or omit yolks and use only the whites, and beat until cold. 
Turn into mould, and serve with whipped cream or fresh fruits. 

1070. Spanish Cream, Benedictine. — Add to Spanish 
Cream 2 tbsps. Benedictine liqueur, and serve with whipped 
cream mixed with candied fruit. 

1071. Spanish Cream Caramel and Peaches. — Add to 

Spanish Cream 1 cup of light caramel and 1 cup hot milk, instead 
of using all milk, and omit J^ of the sugar. Flavor with almond 
or a few drops of brandy, turn into moulds partly filled with 
sliced peaches. 

1072. Spanish Cream Chocolate. — Add 2 squares choc- 
olate melted with 2 tbsps. of water and sugar, flavor with va- 
nilla. 

1073. Spanish Cream Curaqoa. — Add an inch stick of 
cinnamon to the cream, and flavor with 3 tbsps. cura(?oa or 
apricot brandy or sherry. All yolks and no whites of eggs could 
be used for this cream, if desired very rich and yellow. 

1074. Spanish Cream with Macaroons. — Add 1 cup 

macaroon crumbs to the cream just before moulding. 



COLD DESSERTS 241 

1075. Spanish Cream Pineapple and Pistachio. — 

Add 1 cup shredded pineapple to the cream, and J^ cup shredded 
pistachio nuts. Line mould with lemon jelly, garnish with the 
nuts and chopped candied pineapple, fill with thT cream, and 
serve with whipped cream. 

1076' Plain Creams Uncooked. — These are composed 
of any of the mixtures used for charlotte russe, and are served 
in individual glasses covered with fresh or candied or brandied 
fruits, water ice, or Italian Meringue. ' 

1077. Marshmallow Cream. — Cut 3^ lb. of marsh- 
mallows in four or five pieces, add 1 cup cream whipped very 
stiff, )^ cup English walnut meats blanched and chopped. Stir 
all together and let stand all night, and serve with red-raspberry 
sauce. Take the juice from the top of a can of red raspberries, 
cook, and thicken with about 1 tbsp. of cornstarch and sweeten 
if necessary. 

Custards, Baked and Boiled 

1078. Baked Custards. — Mix 2 cups rich milk, 3 beaten 
eggs, M cup sugar, little salt, 1 tbsp. flavoring, and if vanilla 
a little nutmeg, beat a moment, turn into buttered dish or cups, 
dust with the nutmeg, place in a pan of hot water, and bake in 
a slow oven until a knife point will make a clean cut in centre 
of custard. This should be served in the dish. To turn out add 
2 extra yolks to the mixture. Thick baked custards may be 
turned out and covered with caramel, chocolate, fruit, or wine 
sauce. 

7075. Baked Custard Souffle.— Add to Baked Custard 
mixture the stiflEiy beaten egg whites and an extra white if at 
hand. 

1080. Boiled Custard Soft.— Add 2 cups scalded milk 
to 3 egg yolks beaten thick with 34 cup sugar. Cook until spoon 
is coated, add 1 teasp. butter, take from fire, and flavor with 
vanilla, almond, rum, brandy, sherry, cordial, or fruit juice or 
jelly. Beat until cold. 

1081. Boiled Custard Stiff.— Make as above, adding 1 
tbsp. of arrowroot or cornstarch, or l}/^ tbsps. flour softened in 



242 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

cold milk to the hot milk, and cook 5 minutes before adding to 
eggs. Arrowroot is the most delicate thickening. 

1082. Boiled Custard Rich. — Omit the flour or corn- 
starch and use 6 egg yolks. 

1083. Boiled Custard Souffle. — Add to rich custard 
when taken from fire the stiffly beaten egg whites and beat 
until cold. 

1084. Baked or Boiled Custard Chartreuse. — Line 
dish or mould with thick caramel, jelly, jam, or marmalade, or 
a layer of macaroon crumbs before turning in the custard. 

1085. Apple Meringue Custard. — Add to baked or 
boiled custard 4 sliced apples cooked in 3^ cup water, 2 tbsps. 
butter, 1 teasp. vanilla, or 2 tbsps. currant jelly. Add these to 
custard before baking or after boiling. When cold cover with 
meringue. 

1086. Brandy Custard. — Flavor rich boiled custard with 
34 cup brandy or sherry. Turn into a glass dish, poach 3 egg 
whites, beaten stiff with 3 tbsps. sugar, in a colander over boil- 
ing water in large spoonfuls, lay them on custard, and dust with 
the nutmeg, cinnamon, grated chocolate, or minced nuts. 

1087. Bread and Custard Fruit Pudding. — Make rich 
boiled custard. Toast 2 large, thick slices of bread, spread them 
with tart fruit jelly, and cut them to fit glass dish. Cover with 
1 cup fresh or canned fruit, press with tumbler under a weight, 
fill dish with the custard, and cover with 3^ cup slightly sweet- 
ened cream. When ready to serve remove tumbler. Flavor 
custard to harmonize with the fruit. If peaches, use bitter 
almond, and blanched and shredded almonds may be added; if 
chocolate custard, flavor with brandy or orange juice, and use 
iliced oranges. Grated cocoanut may be dusted on the cream, 
and the cream may also be streaked with red, and the custard 
flavored with Benedictine. To streak the cream, dip a fork in 
red coloring liquid and draw it lightly through cream. 

1088. Caramel and Almond Baked Custard.— Stiff 

Baked Custard, 3^ cup caramel cooked almost brittle with 3^ 
cup browned and shredded almonds. Flavor custard with 
caramel, line dish with the caramel and nuts, and bake nearly 
an hour. 



COLD DESSERTS 243 

1089. Chestnut Custard Souffle.— Add to Boiled Cus- 
tard Souffle 1 pt. chestnuts boiled with grated rind of 1 lemon 
and mashed smooth and 1 teasp. lemon juice, serve in sherbet 
glasses, and cover with whipped cream dusted with nutmeg or 
mixed with shaved maple sugar, and garnish with preserved 
strawberries. 

1090. Chocolate Custard Pudding Steamed. — This is 
a rich and delicious pudding, made slightly different from the 
ordinary custard. Beat 8 yolks very stiff. Cook in double 
boiler 3 tbsps. butter, 1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 3 bars of confec- 
tioner's chocolate grated, and the eggs. Beat constantly until 
thick, take from fire, add 1 tbsp. each vanilla and brandy or rum, 
turn into buttered mould, cover, and steam 2}/^ hours. Turn 
out, turn off the extra liquid, place in hot oven 10 minutes, cool, 
and put on ice 5 hours, slip onto serving plate, and serve as cold 
as possible with whipped cream slightly sweetened and flavored 
with sherry, or with a half -frozen custard or Italian Meringue 
(1454). It may be garnished with candied fruit soaked in rum. 

1091. Chocolate Macaroon Custard. — Add to Boiled 
Custard 2 squares grated chocolate melted, 3^ cup macaroon 
crumbs, and serve with J^ cup strawberry or red-raspberry jelly 
or jam, cut in small bits and mixed with whipped cream. 

1092. Coffee Custard. — Add to baked or boiled custard 
4 tbsps. very strong coffee soaked an hour in 1 cup warm milk 
and strained, and use 3^ cup less milk, or add J^ cup very strong 
coffee or 2 tbsps. coffee extract. 

1093. Fruit Custard Steamed. — To rich boiled custard 
add 1 cup mixed fresh or canned fruit. Line mould with 2 egg 
whites beaten stiff, fill with custard, cover with rice, cover and 
steam 3^ an hour, when very cold turn out, and serve with cream. 

1094. Maple Custard Souffle.— Make baked custard 
mixture with 3^ cup grated maple sugar instead of granulated, 
turn out, and cover with 3^ cup scraped maple sugar, 3^ minced 
pecans or browned almonds, and 3^ cup whipped cream. 

1095. Macaroon Custard. — Cover 3^ lb. macaroons 
soaked in 3^ cup sherry with 3^ cup minced pecans and 1 sliced 
banana, then with boiled custard, and pour over it 3^ cup whipped 
cream. 



244 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1096. Mocha Caramel Custard. — To baked custard 
mixture made with 3^ cup very strong coffee and less milk add 3^ 
cup powdered macaroons, bake, and serve J^ cup caramel mixed 
with 3 egg whites beaten stiff, then cooled and mixed with J^ 
cup cream whipped very stiff. 

1097. Orange Custard Meringue. — Put 3 sliced oranges 
in dish, sprinkle with 2 tbsps. sugar, add Boiled Custard, Stiff, 
flavored with orange juice, cover with meringue, and brown in 
oven. Serve very cold. 

1098. Peach Custard. — ^Peel and stone 6 peaches, fill with 
Maraschino cherries, coat with Boiled Custard, Stiff, and roll 
them in minced nuts. Place on ice, and when very cold cover 
with the custard flavored with the Maraschino and cover with 
whipped cream flavored with almond. 



Farinacious Puddings 

1099. Chocolate Cornstarch Pudding with Pine- 
apple. — Scald 2 cups milk, add 4 tbsps. cornstarch in J^ cup 
cold milk, and cook 5 minutes, add 4 tbsps. sugar, and 4 of 
chocolate melted, little salt, and 1 teasp. butter, remove from 
fire, add 1 cup shredded pineapple, J^ cup macaroon crumbs, and 
1 teasp. vanilla, beat a moment, add 2 egg whites, and turn into 
cups wet in cold water. Turn out and serve with boiled custard 
made of the yolks. 

1100. Farina Pudding with Pineapple. — Scald 1 cup 
milk and 1 cup water, add 1 teasp. butter, 3 tbsps. farina, sim- 
mer 15 minutes, turn into a bowl, add 3 beaten whites, and turn 
into mould. Serve covered with 1 cup shredded pineapple, sur- 
rounded with the custard. 

1101. Peach and Cornstarch Pudding. — Scald 1 cup 
milk, add 2 tbsps. cornstarch in J^ cup cold water, J^ cup sugar, 
1 teasp. butter, and cook 5 minutes, take from fire, add 1 teasp. 
lemon juice, J^ teasp. almond extract, 2 egg whites beaten, and 
J/^ cup whipped cream. Color a pale pink and line buttered 
cups, lay a half peach in each one, fill with the mixture, and 
when cold turn out, dust with minced almonds, and pour 
around Boiled Custard. 



COLD DESSERTS 245 

1102. Tapioca with Peaches or Pineapple. — Soak 1 
cup tapioca in 2 cups cold water until absorbed, boil until trans- 
parent, adding more water if needed, add J^ cup sugar, 1 cup 
peaches or shredded pineapple and juice, turn into mould, and 
serve with boiled custard or cream. 

1103. Tapioca with Strawberries. — Cook 1 qt. straw- 
berries with 1 cup sugar and 2 tbsps. lemon juice until soft, add 
]/i cup tapioca and a little salt, and cook until clear. Fold in 
two well-beaten egg whites, turn into a mould, and serve with 
Boiled Custard. 

1104. Rice Mould. — Boil 1 cup rice in 1 qt. milk, add 1 
tbsp. softened gelatine, a little salt, and 3^ cup candied fruits. 
Turn into buttered mould, and when very cold turn out, pour 
over 1 cup fruit sirup, garnish with currant jelly, and serve 
with sweetened and whipped cream. 

1105. Rice Pudding, Half-Frozen. — Boil 1 cup rice in 
milk, add J^ cup sugar and little salt, cool, and add 1 tbsp. 
flavoring or 2 of fruit sirup, 1 cup whipped cream, and turn 
into a mould garnished with candied fruits, pack in ice and salt 
for 3 hours. Serve with Whipped Cream Sauce (1284). 

1106. Rice Pudding Supreme. — Add to 2 cups hot boiled 
rice J^ box gelatine dissolved in 3^ cup water, 2 teasps. vanilla, 
2 tbsps. sugar, 3 figs, and 3 tbsps. preserved ginger cut in small 
pieces and soaked in 3^ cup sherry, and when cool add 1 cup 
whipped cream. Garnish mould with J^ cup candied cherries, 
and ]4, cup angelica cut in thin strips, turn in the rice mixture, 
and place on iqe 2 hours. Serve with Whipped Cream or Fruit 
Sauce. 

Fruit and Nut Desserts 

1107. Apples Baked in Jelly. — Cover peeled and cored 
apples with 1 cup sugar and grated peel of 1 lemon, and bake 
until tender, turn into glass dish, add lemon juice and a little 
currant jelly to sirup in pan, and cook until it jellies. Pour 
over the apples, and serve very cold with Boiled Custard or 
whipped cream. 

1108. Apples Caramelled. — Cook 6 small peeled and 
cored apples in 3^ cup sugar and ^ cup water until tender, re- 



246 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

move to dish. Cook J^ cup minced almonds or pecans in J^ 
cup sugar until brown, pour over the apples, completely coating 
them with the caramel, pour over the apple sirup cooled down 
until nearly jelly, and serve cold with cream. 

1109- Apple Snow. — Grate 1 sour apple, add ^ cup pow- 
dered sugar, 2 egg whites beaten very stiff, a pinch of salt. Beat 
until fluffy, pile on small rounds of sponge cake or toasted bread 
covered with a layer of jelly or jam. Serve with Boiled Custard 
poured around. 

1110' Apricot Eggs. — Place a few grape-fruit carpels in 
centre of rounds of sponge cake, cover each with a drained half 
of a canned apricot, cook the juice with the grape-fruit juice, 
juice of 1 orange, and J^ cup sugar, add 1 tbsp. softened gelatine, 
cool, and pour a little of it over the apricots to glaze them. Add 
2 egg whites beaten stiff to remainder of the jelly, beat well, and 
pour around the apricots. 

1111. Banana Fluff. — Peel 3 bananas and cover them 
with 2 tbsps. lemon juice and 1 of grape-fruit juice, cover, and 
place on ice. After an hour mash and beat them, adding J^ 
cup powdered sugar and the unbeaten whites of 3 eggs, 1 at a 
time. When light add 1 teasp. vanilla and 2 of Benedictine or 
sherry. Serve in glasses }/i filled with fresh or canned fruit, 
and dust with minced pistachio nuts or candied mint leaves. 

1112. Chestnuts with Coffee Sauce. — Cook 1 qt. 
blanched chestnuts until tender with 3^ cup sugar, 1 cup water, 
and a 3-inch stick cinnamon.. Remove cinnamon, add salt, 
press through potato ricer into a glass dish. When very cold 
pour over }4 cup very hot coffee mixed with 2 beaten yolks, and 
2 tbsps. powdered sugar. 

1113. Chestnut Mould. — Boil and mash 1 qt. blanched 
chestnuts, add 3 tbsps. powdered sugar, dash salt, 4 tbsps. 
cream, 1 teasp. vanilla, and 4 tbsps. sherry. Turn into a mould 
slightly greased with olive oil. Turn out, garnish with candied 
fruit, and surround with whipped cream sweetened and flavored 
with Maraschino. 

1114. Cocoanut Timbales.— Scald 1 pt. milk, add 3 tbsps. 
cornstarch dissolved in cold milk, 3 tbsps. powdered sugar, little 
salt, boil 10 minutes, add 1 cup shredded cocoanut, and 3 egg 



COLD DESSERTS 247 

whites beaten very stiff. Turn into timbale moulds, and serve 
with whipped cream or boiled custard. Add a little orange or 
lemon juice to the cooked mixture. 

1115. Date and Nut Torte. — Beat 2 eggs with 1 cup 
sugar, add 1 cup each, broken pecans and dates cut in small 
pieces, J^ cup flour, 1 teasp. baking-powder, and a little salt. 
Bake in shallow buttered pan J^ hour. When cold sprinkle 
with 2 or 3 tbsps. sherry and cover with whipped cream. This 
may be made in individual cakes. 

1116. Fruit Macedoine. — Cook and strain H cup orange 
juice or water, J^ cup sherry, 2 tbsps. Maraschino or rum, and 
4 tbsps. sugar. When cold add oranges, grape-fruit, bananas, 
pineapple, and Malaga grapes seeded and peeled, and garnish 
with squares of wine jelly. Or omit bananas and pineapple, 
and add tiny slices of apple and fresh or brandied cherries, and 
serve in apple cups or in glass sherbet cups. 

1117. Peaches in Cantaloupes. — Fill halves of very cold 
melons with sliced peaches, sprinkle them with sugar and candied 
ginger chopped rather fine, and serve very cold. They may be 
covered with whipped cream and the ginger sprinkled in the 
cream. 

1118. Peaches and Cream. — Put peach halves on rounds 
of sponge cake cut side up, fill with minced almonds or pecans, 
dried macaroon crumbs, or fresh shredded cocoanut, cover with 
cream well sweetened and whipped, and garnish with candied 
cherries. 

1119. Peaches on Peach Cakes. — ^For this purpose there 
are half-round moulds the shape of a peach half. Whip 2 eggs 
over hot water, add 3^ cup granulated sugar, 1 teasp. minced 
candied lemon peel, and ^ cup warm flour. Fill moulds and 
bake. When cool dip them in sherry, dust with carmine pow- 
der, then with powdered sugar, lay a half peach on each one, 
arrange in circle, and fill centre with Boiled Custard Souffle 
(1083). 

1120. Peaches with Raspberry Sirup. — Steam 6 
peaches 5 minutes, peel and cool, stick them with blanched 
almonds, using 1 cup, lay them on serving dish on sponge cake, 
and pour over them red-raspberry sirup boiled down until 
rather thick and colored a deep red with Amaranth. 



248 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1121. Peach Snow. — Boil cup sugar with J^ cup water 
until it spins, dip peaches in it. Dust them with 2 tbsps. 
shredded almonds, lay them on a plate to cool. When cold 
cover with 2 egg whites beaten very stiff with 1 tbsp. powdered 
sugar, and poached in spoonfuls in boiling water mixed with the 
remaining sirup. 

1122. Pears with Raspberry Puree (Mary Garden). 
— Cook fresh or canned pears, cored and, centres filled with 
candied cherries soaked in rum or sherry, in a sirup of J^ cup 
sugar and 1 cup water until tender, place on plate, cover with 
1 cup canned or preserved red raspberries pressed through a 
sieve. When cold place on disks of sponge cake, cover with 
whipped cream, and garnish with the cherries. 

1123. Pears with Wine Sauce. — Cook peeled, cored, 
and halved pears in a sirup of J^ cup sugar, 1 cup water, 1 tbsp. 
lemon juice, 2 whole cloves, and a small stick of cinnamon, color 
red, and drain on a plate, add 3 tbsps. sherry, rum, or Madeira 
wine to sirup, and cook until thick, pour over the fruit when 
cold, place fruit on serving dish on disks of toasted bread, dust 
with minced nuts, and cover with whipped cream. 

1124. Pineapple with Rum Sauce. — Cook 6 slices of 
pineapple 1 moment in a sirup of 1 cup water, J^ cup sugar, juice 
of 3^ lemon, drain, and cook sirup until reduced one-half, cool, 
and add 4 tbsps. of rum, pour this over the fruit, sprinkle with 
minced pistachio nuts and bits preserved ginger, or any pre- 
served or candied fruit, place on ice until very cold, and serve 
with cake or lady fingers. 

1125. Prunes in Claret. — Soak large prunes, dry them, 
remove stones, and stuff with minced pecans or almonds. 
Fasten them with wooden skewers, and lay them in a sirup of 
1 cup claret, 14, cup sugar, a small stick of cinnamon, cook 15 
minutes, or until tender, but not soft, drain them into a serving 
dish, cook down the sirup, strain and pour over the prunes, and 
serve with cream and cake. 

1126. Prune Mould. — Soak and steam 16 large prunes 
with a very little water, and stick of cinnamon Until tender. 
Remove stones, crack, and add kernels to prunes, add J^ cup 
sugar, and 1 tbsp. cornstarch softened in 34 cup cold water, and 



COLD DESSERTS 249 

cook 5 minutes, add a few drops lemon juice, and turn into a wet 
mould. When very cold serve with whipped and sweetened 
cream. 

1127. Strawberries Glorified. — Roll large strawberries 
in a warm sirup of 1 cup sugar and J^ cup water, take from 
fire, add 2 tbsps. each curafoa, or brandy, and Maraschino, cool 
berries, and serve with whipped cream flavored with vanilla. 

1128. Strawberries en Surprise.— Partly fill 6 small 
paper cases with large strawberries, dust them with powdered 
sugar, and pour over them J^ cup of Maraschino, Chartreuse, or 
sherry, cover with whipped cream, and pipe on more whipped 
cream, colored pink and slightly sweetened. Place on ice for 
an hour before serving. 



Jelli 



les 



Method. — Soften gelatines in cold water, ]/^ cup to 1 oz. 
or 2 tbsps. granulated gelatine. Use from J^ cup to ^ cup 
granulated or loaf sugar (the latter is considered clearer); 1 oz. 
dissolved gelatine thickens 3 cups liquid (in summer but 
23^ cups of liquid). Boil water and sugar and lemon peel, if 
used, reduce heat, and add gelatine and white and shell of 
1 egg, simmer until scum forms, remove it, and strain through 
bag or cloth, cool, add wine or flavoring and coloring, turn 
into mould wet in cold water. When cool, place on ice. To 
unmould, loosen edges with knife dipped in warm water, 
lower mould for a moment in warm water, place the serving 
plate upon it, turn it upside down, wipe mould, and in a few 
moments the jelly will come out on plate. Paper doilies are 
usually used under jellied mixtures. 

Leaf gelatine, which must be weighed, makes a clearer 
jelly, and it will dissolve in boiling water without previous 
soaking. If fruit or nuts are to be moulded in the jelly, use 
J^ cup less water or liquid. To line a mould with jelly do not 



250 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

wet mould, place it in a pan or bowl of ice-water, put in the 
jelly, a tablespoonful at a time, turn mould, adding more jelly 
until it is evenly lined and nearly set. Add garnishings 
dipped in the jelly, put on ice until set, then fill with the re- 
mainder of the jelly or any other mixture to be used. 

To make a half-inch or more of jelly in a mould filled with 
other mixtures, use two moulds of same shape, one much 
smaller than the other. Fill larger mould with a half-inch 
layer of jelly, when set put in the smaller mould filled with 
ice-water, and pour into the larger mould enough liquid to 
completely fill it. When set, turn out the water from inner 
mould, fill it with warm water, and lift it out gently. 

Jelly creams are plain, clear jellies to which 2 or 3 tbsps. 
of cream are added, enough to make them white; then they 
may be colored any desired color and used for lining jellies, 
or more cream may be added and they may be used as a solid 
jelly cream. 

1129. Brandy Jelly. — ^Follow recipe for Russian Jelly, 
using ^2 cup of brandy instead of wine or lemon, add juice of 1 
lemon and rind of 1 tangerine. Line mould, and garnish with 
tangerine orange quarters. 

1130. Coffee Jelly. — ^Follow Method, using strong, clear 
coffee instead of water. Serve with sliced bananas and cream. 

1131. Creme de Menthe Jelly.— Follow Method, 
and flavor with 2 tbsps. of crime de menthe, color pale green, 
and serve with whipped cream and candied mint leaves. 

1132. Fruit Jelly. — Lemon Jelly or Wine Jelly moulded 
in alternate layers with 1 orange sliced, 4 figs, 6 dates, }/2 cup 
blanched almonds, 1 sliced banana, and J^ cup Malaga grapes 
skinned and seeded. Serve with whipped and sweetened cream. 

1133. Lemon Jelly. — Follow Method, using 3^ cup less 
water, add shaved yellow peel of 1 lemon, 2 cloves, and an 
inch-stick of cinnamon, remove from fire and add 1 cup lemon 



COLD DESSERTS 251 

juice, clear, and strain. A spoonful or two of any cordial, espe- 
cially Benedictine or Maraschino, improves flavor. 

1134. Marshmallow Jelly. — Line mould with Lemon 
Jelly, garnish with slightly toasted marshmallows, fill with the 
jelly, and serve with Boiled Custard. 

1135. Orange Jelly. — Follow recipe for Lemon Jelly, 
using 1 cup of orange juice and juice of 1 lemon, omitting the 
other flavorings. 

1136. Prune Jelly. — Cook }/2 lb- soaked prunes with J^ 
cup sugar and 2 cups water, drain, and stone prunes, heat 2 cups 
of the liquor, add to gelatine with juice of 1 lemon, 2 tbsps. sherry, 
and a dash of salt. Mould in layers with the prunes and pecans 
and serve with Boiled Custard. 

1137. Rhubarb Jelly. — Boil 1 qt. of unpeeled inch- 
sticks of rhubarb 1 minute in hot sirup. Drain, and to 3 cups 
of the liquor add softened gelatine, and mould with the rhubarb, 
and 1 cup of shredded almonds. Serve with sweetened and 
whipped cream. 

1138. Russian Fruit Jelly. — Add 2 beaten egg whites 
to Lemon or Wine Jelly, using fruit juice or grape juice instead 
of lemon or wine, and beat until cold. Mould with fruit. This 
is also called Jelly Fruit Sponge. 

1139. Strawberry Jelly. — Use recipe for Lemon Jelly, 
using 2 cups of fruit and juice, }/2 cup boiling water, and juice 
and rind of 1 lemon. Canned or preserved strawberries may be 
used. Boil juice with water and ^ cup sugar, add gelatine and 
3^ cup brandy. Mould with the largest of the fruit and 3^ cup 
pecans or almonds. 

1140. Wine Jelly. — Follow Method for jellies, adding 1 
clove and a tiny piece of cinnamon, and but IJ^ cups water; 
add juice of 1 lemon and 1 orange, 1 cup of champagne, sau- 
terne, or Marsala wine, or use a little more water, and about J^ 
cup of sherry, rum, brandy, or whiskey. This may be turned 
into champagne glasses, leaving room for a half-inch covering 
of beaten egg white mixed with sweetened and whipped cream. 
It will look quite likp a glass of champagne. 



252 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1141. Wine Jelly Macedoine. — Line mould with Wine 
Jelly, fill with alternate layers of jelly and candied fruits, pecans, 
almond, banana, or pineapple slices, and peeled and, seeded 
Malaga grapes. 

Jelly Creams 

1142. Lalla Rookh Jelly Cream.— Make Wine Jelly, 
using rum and milk instead of water, omit the lemon and other 
flavoring, and add 2 or 3 drops of the oil of nutmeg, or a little 
grated nutmeg. 

1143. Mandarin or Tangerine Jelly Cream. — Make 
Orange Jelly, and line a mould, garnish with sections of man- 
darins free from skin, put in another layer of the jelly. Reheat 
the remainder of the jelly, and add the pulp and grated rind of 
3 mandarin oranges, a little more sugar, and press through a 
sieve. Add J/^ cup cream whipped, and 2 tbsps. of cura9oa. 
Fill the mould and serve with light cakes. 

1144. Sherry Jelly Cream. — Make Wine Jelly with 
sherry, omit other flavorings, and when cool add J^ cup cream 
whipped very stiff. 

1145. Strawberry Jelly Cream. — ^Make Strawberry 
Jelly with milk instead of water, and turn into small moulds. 
If it is not a good pink, color it slightly. Serve each mould sur- 
rounded with whipped and sweetened cream. 

Jelly Sponges 

1146. Apple Sponge. — Cook 4 sliced apples, }4 cup 
sugar, grated peel of 1 lemon, and 1 orange in }/2 cup water until 
tender, add J^ oz. of gelatine dissolved, J^ cup red fruit juice 
or jelly, 1 tbsp. orange flower water, 1 teasp. vanilla, and 1 
tbsp. rum, sherry, or brandy. When cool add 2 egg whites 
beaten very stiff, and turn into a mould. Turn out onto a case 
of Sweet Paste (1223) or round of sponge cake, and garnish with 
whipped cream sweetened, flavored with vanilla, and streaked 
with red coloring liquid. 

1147. Jelly Bar-le-Duc Sponge.— Add juice of 1 
lemon and 3^ cup sugar to 2 cups boiling water, boil a moment, 



HOT DESSERTS 253 

remove from fire, and add one jar of white or red Bar-Ie-Duc 
currants. Add to J^ oz. softened gelatine, cool, and add 2 
beaten egg whites. Beat until very cold, mould, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

1148. Coffee Caramel Jelly Sponge. — Cook 1 cup 
granulated sugar until nearly brown, add 1 cup strong, hot coffee, 
remove from fire, add }/^ cup warm milk, then }/2 oz. softened 
gelatine, and beat until it cools a little. Add the stiflBy beaten 
whites of 3 eggs, and beat until very light and fluffy. Turn into 
a mould, and serve with a rich Boiled Custard. 

1149. Date Jelly Sponge. — Add 2 egg whites beaten 
stiff to a mild Lemon Jelly, and 1 cup dates cut in small pieces, 
beat until stifj, mould, and serve with Boiled Custard or whipped 
cream. 

1150. Pineapple or Red Raspberry Sponge.— Add to 2 

cups chopped pineapple or raspberries, cooked in sirup of 1 cup 
water and 3^ cup sugar, J^ oz. softened gelatine, strain, cool, 
add beaten whites of 3 eggs, a little lemon juice if canned pine- 
apple be used, beat until stiff, mould, and serve with Boiled 
Custard. 

HOT DESSERTS 
Baked Puddings 

1151. Apple and Fruit Batter Pudding.^-Pare apples, 
cut a slice from the tops to use as lids, core, and fill with seeded 
raisins or sultanas and minced nuts mixed with sugar and cin- 
namon, replace lids, and bake in a buttered dish in a pan of water 
until tender. Make batter of 4 beaten eggs, ^ cup sugar, and 
1 cup of fiour. Beat vigorously, cover apples, and bake until 
batter is done. Serve with whipped cream. 

1152. Apricot or Peach Custard Pudding. — Spread 
lady fingers or sponge cake quite thick with warm apricot or 
peach jam, and line buttered dish, sprinkle with minced almonds, 
and pour in warm Boiled Custard flavored with vanilla. Let 
stand 3^ an hour. Cover with meringue. 

1153. Batter Pudding with Fruit Sauce. — Cream J^ 
cup butter, add % cup granulated sugar, and, alternately, 2 cups 



254 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

of flour, a little salt, and 3^ cup rich milk. Beat well and fold 
in the beaten whites of 5 eggs. Bake in a ring mould, frost 
quickly while warm with Boiled Frosting, and serve quite 
warm, with centre filled with mashed bananas, red raspberries, 
and currants, sweetened and mixed carefully with whipped 
cream, and the ring dusted with powdered sugar. 

1154. Blueberry Pudding. — Sift 2 cups flour with 3 
teasps. baking-powder and J^ teasp. salt. Mix 2 beaten yolks 
with 3 tbsps. sugar, add 2 tbsps. creamed butter, and add, alter- 
nately a httle of each, \}/2 cups of flour and ^ cup milk. Beat 
and add a dusting of nutmeg and the stiffly beaten whites. 
Dredge 2 cups of blueberries or huckleberries with the remainder 
of the flour. Bake in buttered gem pans 25 minutes, and serve 
with Hard Sauce Cream, to which a few fresh cherries may be 
added. 

1155. Bread Pudding with Almonds or Cocoanut. 

— Soak }/^ cup of soft bread crumbs in 2 cups hot milk and 3^ cup 
minced almonds or cocoanut }/2 an hour, add 2 yolks beaten with 
34 cup sugar, little salt, 1 teasp. each vanilla and sherry or 
brandy or lemon juice, and grated rind. Add egg whites beaten 
stiff or if a meringue is preferred, save them for that. Serve 
with whipped cream. The dish may be sprinkled with fresh 
or candied fruit, turn in the pudding, and bake in a pan of hot 
water 20 minutes. It may also be baked in small moulds and 
served with Fruit or Orange Sauce. 

1156. Bread and Toast Pudding with Fruits. — Dip 

small rounds of toasted bread in melted butter, and then in a 
sugar sirup flavored with rum and orange juice. Line a but- 
tered mould, lapping the edges of the toast, fill with 2 cups sliced 
apples, 34 cup sultana raisins, a few pieces of shaved citron, 34 
cup fruit jelly or preserves, and sugar to sweeten. Cover with 
the toast, and bake until apples are tender. Turn out on serv- 
ing dish. Pipe on whipped cream, and garnish with candied 
cherries or nuts. 

1157. Bread and Raspberry Pudding. — Sprinkle soft 
bread crumbs in a buttered serving dish, put in a thick layer of 
fresh raspberries, sprinkle with powdered sugar and a few drops 
of brandy, add a thin layer of crumbs, and again raspberries 



HOT DESSERTS 255 

until dish is full. Add bits of butter to crumbs on top, and 
bake 3^ an hour. Serve with whipped and sweetened cream. 

11S8' Caramel Banana Custard. — Beat 2 egg yolks 
light, add J^ cup sugar, ]/^ teasp. butter, and 2 cups scalded 
milk. Beat well, turn into a double boiler with 2 bananas peeled 
and sliced thin. Line a dish or tin basin with caramel, then 
dust with minced pecans, pour in the custard, and bake 3^ 
an hour. Turn out and serve warm with very cold and sweet- 
ened whipped cream. 

1159. Chocolate and Apple Custard Pudding.-r-Melt 

3^ cup of grated chocolate with J^ cup sugar and 1 cup milk, 
add 3 well-beaten egg yolks, remove from fire, add 1 cup of apple 
stewed with very little sugar and a pinch of salt, dust with cin- 
namon, and turn into a buttered dish and bake 20 minutes. 
Serve in dish covered with a meringue and browned and minced 
almonds, and with Whipped Cream Sauce. 

1160. Chocolate Bread Pudding. — Soak 1 cup bread 
crumbs in 2 of hot milk J^ an hour, add 1 square chocolate 
melted with 3 tbsps. sugar and 2 of milk, add 2 tbsps. sugar, 
little salt, 1 teasp. vanilla, and 1 beaten egg. Bake ^ of an 
hour. Serve with Brown Sugar Hard Sauce. 

1161. Coffee Torte with Orange Sauce Custard. — 

Cream 3^ cup butter with 3^ cup sugar, add 2 beaten yolks and 
13^ cups flour sifted with 2 teasps. baking-powder, and 3^ cup 
very strong coffee. Beat and fold in the stiffly beaten whites. 
Bake in 2 layers. Remove from pans, cover 1 layer with 
sliced oranges and bananas, put on other layer, and serve 
quite warm covered with cold Boiled Custard Souffle (1083) 
flavored with juice and grated rind of 1 orange. Cover cus- 
tard with whipped cream and garnish with glaced oranges. 

1162. Cottage Pudding. — Cream J^ cup butter, add 3^ 
cup sugar, 2 yolks beaten with 3^ cup sugar, 13^ cups flour, 2 
teasps. baking-powder, J^ teasp. salt, 3^ cup milk, and 1 beaten 
egg white. Add minced nuts or chopped fruit and bake in 
shallow pan. Cut in squares and serve with Cold Creamy 
Sauce. 

1163. Cranberry Meringue. — Fill buttered dish with 
alternate layers of stale bread or cake crumbs and cranberry 



256 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

sauce having crumbs on top and bottom. Beat 2 yolks with 1 
cup of milk and }/i cup sugar, pour into the pudding, and bake 
until custard sets. Serve warm covered with meringue and 
any sweet sauce. 

1164. Farina Puffs. — Add 6 tbsps. farina to 2 cups hot 
milk and cook until thick, add 4 egg yolks, J^ cup sugar, and J^ 
teasp. salt. Remove from fire, fold in the beaten whites, add 
1 teasp. of flavoring, and turn into buttered gem or patty tins 
and bake 15 minutes in a quick oven. Turn out and serve with 
Chocolate Sauce. 

1165. French Puffs. — Add to 1 cup of flour 13^ cups 
milk and 34 teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. melted butter, and 2 well-beaten 
eggs. Beat with Dover egg beater 5 minutes, turn into hot 
buttered gem pans, and bake J^ hour. Turn out and serve 
immediately with Hard or Orange Sauce. 

1166. Fresh Fruit Batter Pudding. — Cream 2 tbsps. 
butter, add J^ cup sugar, 1 beaten yolk, and }/^ cup mUk. Beat 
well, add IJ^ cups flour sifted with 2 teasps. baking-powder and 
a little salt, fold in 2 egg whites beaten quite stiff, turn into a 
buttered dish half-filled with sliced apples, peaches, plums, or 
stoned cherries. Flavor batter with almond if peaches are used, 
and dust apples with cinnamon. Bake 3^ an hour, turn out on 
serving dish and serve with Hard Sauce Cream or Boiled Cus- 
tard. 

1167. Fresh Fruit Mould.— Scald 1 cup of milk with 
4 tbsps. butter, add 2 cups flour and stir until smooth, and take 
from fire and add 3 tbsps. sugar and 3 yolks. Butter a melon 
mould, and sprinkle it with granulated sugar, put in a layer of 
batter, then a layer of any kind of fresh fruit, cover with a layer 
of batter, then fruit again, and have batter on top. Set the 
mould in a pan of hot water, and then in the oven and steam. 
Serve with Sherry Sauce. 

1168. Noodle Pudding, Fruit Sauce. — Scald 2 cups 
milk, add 3^ teasp. salt, 1 cup Noodles (676), boil 15 minutes. 
Turn into buttered dish and cool. Cream 1 tbsp. butter, add 
alternately 3 egg yolks and 5 tbsps. sugar, grated rind of 1 lemon, 
and the noodles, a little at a time. Bake like a custard, and 
when done cover with a meringue and brown. Serve with Fruit 
Sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS 257 

1169. Orange Pudding. — Soak IJ^ cups stale bread 
crumbs in J^ cup water until soft, add J^ cup sugar, and 3^ cup 
orange juice, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 2 beaten yolks, 1 teasp. soft 
butter, and a dash of salt. Bake in buttered dish and cover 
with sliced oranges, then with a meringue made of the remain- 
ing egg whites, and brown. Serve with cream. 

1170. Peach Roly Poly. — Cream 34 cup butter, add 3^ 
cup sugar, 2 beaten eggs, and J^ cup milk. Add 1 cup flour 
sifted with little salt and 1 teasp. baking-powder, and enough 
more flour to make stiff enough to roll. Roll into a rectangular 
sheet, spread with sliced peaches, dust them with sugar and 
shredded almonds, or the kernels from the peach stones, wet 
edges with cold water, roll, and bake in rather quick oven. Cut 
in slices when serving, and cover each slice with any rich pud- 
ding sauce. 

1171. Savarin Pudding, Apricot Sauce. — Make after 
recipe for Babas (1555) without the fruit, and add minced 
almonds and candied orange peel. Turn into a large tube mould 
buttered and garnished with shredded almonds. Let rise and 
bake, turn out and cover with rum sirup, and serve rather 
warm, with apricot sauce poured over and whipped cream. 



Farinaceous Puddings 

1172. Farina Pudding. — Boil 3 tbsps. farina in 2 cups 
milk, add 34 teasp. salt, and cook until it begins to thicken. 
Cool and add 2 beaten yolks, 34 cup sugar, and 1 teasp. flavor- 
ing or 1 tbsp. fruit sirup. Bake in buttered dish until it is set. 
Cover with a layer of fresh or canned fruit, jam or jelly, then 
with a meringue, and when brown serve. It may be served with 
Chocolate Cream Sauce or plain cream. 

1173. Tapioca Pudding with Chocolate or Maple 

Sugar .^Soak 3^ cup tapioca several hours in 2 cups water, 
cook until clear, and add J^ cup sugar and 2 squares of grated 
chocolate or maple sugar, and a dash of cinnamon. Add 1 
tbsp. butter, and 2 well beaten yolks. Bake in buttered 
dish 15 minutes, cover with meringue, and serve with, whipped 
cream. ' 



258 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



Fried Puddings — All Fried in Deep Fat 

1174. Beignets Souffle. — Boil 1 tbsp. butter, 6 of water, 
and 5 of flour 5 minutes, cool, add 4 eggs, one by one, and 1 
teasp. vanilla. Drop from spoon into very hot fat. When brown 
drain, dust with powdered sugar, and serve with Soft Sauce. 

1175. Bread or Cake Croquettes. — Boil 2 cups crumbs 
in 1 cup milk 2 minutes, add grated rind of 1 lemon, 3^ cup each 
sultanas and currants, J^ teasp. cinnamon, remove from fire, add 
2 yolks. Form into croquettes, cool, egg and crumb, and fry, 
and serve with Sherry Sauce. 

1176. Cream Cornstarch Disks. — Scald 1 pt. milk with 
stick cinnamon, strain, and add 2 tbsps. flour and 3 of cornstarch 
softened in J^ cup of milk. When thick add 2 eggs beaten with 
3^ cup sugar, cook a moment, take from fire, add 34 cup each 
minced almonds and candied fruit, 1 teasp. vanilla, and ]/2 
teasp. almond extract, turn into a shallow buttered dish, and 
when cool cut in small rounds, crumb, egg, crumb, and cool. 
When very cold fry in hot fat, dry on paper, and roll in pow- 
dered sugar. 

1177. Fritters. — Beat 2 eggs, add \}/2 cups of milk, and 
beat well; add, a little at a time, 1]/^ cups of flour sifted with 1 
teasp. baking-powder and 3^ teasp. salt. Add more flour if neces- 
sary to make a thin batter, beat thoroughly, and drop by small 
spoonfuls in hot fat. Serve with maple sirup. 

1178. Fruit Rissoles. — Roll thin a baking-powder-biscuit 
dough sweetened with 1 tbsp. sugar, cut in rounds, brush edges 
with egg white and water, fill half of them with fresh, slightly 
sweetened fruit, cover with the remainder, pinch edges together, 
and fry in deep fat. Serve with Cold Fruit Sauce. 

1179. Maple Toast with Fruit.— Dip sUces of stale bread 
in a custard made of 1 cup milk, 3^ cup maple sugar, 2 beaten 
yolks, and a pinch of salt. Fry in hot fat, cover each piece with 
fresh fruit, peaches, berries, or pineapple, and serve with Hot 
Fruit Sauce. ' 



HOT DESSERTS 259 



Fruits Cooked 

1180. Apple Toddy Baked.— Core Spitzenburg apples and 
bake them until nearly tender, fill cores with sugar, well spiced, 
sprinkle them generously with brandy, and finish cooking them 
on top of stove. Serve on slightly toasted bread, and pour over 
them a rich Boiled Custard. 

1181. Banana Pudding. — Peel and cut in long slices 4 
bananas, put them in layers in a buttered baking dish, cover with 
}4: cup of sugar mixed with 2 tbsps. lemon juice, 1 tbsp. melted 
butter and dash of salt, and bake }/^ hour. Sprinkle with 3^ cup 
powdered macaroons or minced nuts, cover with a meringue. 
Brown and serve with whipped cream or Boiled Custard. 

1182. Peaches Baked. — Wash, but do not peel, ripe 
peaches, and fill a baking dish, cover peaches with cold water, 
sprinkle with light-brown sugar, and bake in slow oven 1 hour. 
Serve hot on sponge cake with a pitcher of plain cream. 

1183. Peaches on Fire. — Cook in a thick sirup, flavored 
with lemon juice, 6 peach halves, place them on rounds of sponge 
cake, put 1 tbsp. of rum and 1 teasp. alcohol on each, and set on 
fire just as it is sent to table. 

1184. Pears Baked. — Pare and core pears, stuff with 
shredded dates and almonds, sprinkle with sugar, and bake until 
tender. Serve warm with cream. 

1185. Pineapple Toast. — Boil liquor from 1 can of pine- 
apple, with 1 teasp. each lemon juice and orange juice, 5 minutes, 
brush rounds of stale sponge cake with butter, dredge with 
powdered sugar, and brown in the oven. Place a slice of pine- 
apple on each round, cover with the hot sauce, and serve at 
once. 

Omelettes French and Omelettes Souffle 

1186. Omelette French, Sauted.— Beat 3 eggs, with- 
out separating, very thick, add 2 tbsps. sugar, little salt, 2 tbsps. 
liquid or flavoring. Saut€ in butter. When set add filling, turn, 
and when done turn on hot dish to serve. It will take 2 French 
Omelettes to serve 6 persons, and but 1 Omelette Souflle. 



260 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1187. Omelette Souffle Baked.— Beat 3 yolks 10 min- 
utes with }/2 cup powdered sugar, add flavoring. Fold in 6 whites 
beaten stifl with y^ teasp. salt, turn in buttered pan, bake in 
slow oven 15 or 20 minutes. Serve at once. To either French or 
Souffle the following flavoring or mixtures may be added : Choco- 
late, add 3 tbsps. grated chocolate and 1 teasp. vanilla. Fruit 
or jelly, add to omelette, while baking or before turning, 1 cup 
candied fruit soaked in lemon juice or sherry, and bits of guava 
jelly. When done sprinkle with rum and set on fire. Macaroons 
and strawberries, use 3^ the amount of sugar, add 2 tbsps. straw- 
berry preserves mixed with 2 of whipped cream, and J^ cup 
macaroon crumbs when omelette is set. Turn and serve sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. Orange or pineapple, add 1 tbsp. orange 
or pineapple juice to mixture and 1 of lemon juice. Bake until 
set, sprinkle in 1 cup orange or pineapple cubes, fold, and when 
done dust with powdered sugar. Rum or brandy, add 1 tbsp. 
rum to mixture, bake, turn out on serving dish, pour over J^ 
cup rum or brandy, and set on fire. 

Short Cakes 

1188. Short Cake. — Sift 2 cups flour, 4 teasps. baking- 
powder, and 1 teasp. salt, rub in 3 tbsps. butter, and add milk to 
make soft dough to roll J^ inch thick. Cut in 12 small cakes or 
in 2 large rounds. Put 2 together with lower ones spread with 
butter, and bake 15 minutes in hot oven. Split, fill and cover 
with fruit, then with whipped and sweetened cream, and serve 
at once. Fruit should be mixed with a little sugar and placed 
where it will be warm but not hot. The following are suitable 
and delicious combinations: strawberries and bananas, red 
raspberries and bananas, peaches and shredded almonds, 
oranges and pineapple or bananas, and oranges and slightly 
sweetened apple sauce, and with this serve the following sauce 
and omit cream. Cream ]/^ cup butter with 1 cup sugar, place 
bowl in hot water. When hot add 3^ cup sherry. 

Souffles — Bake in Slow Oven 

1189. Apple Souffle. — ^Make a sauce of 2 tbsps. butter, 3 
of flour, ]/2 cup milk, and 1 cup baked apple whipped light, re- 
move from fire, add 3 beaten yolks, pinch of salt, sweeten to 



HOT DESSERTS 261 

taste, add a little lemon juice and the stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Turn into a mould of Sweet Paste (1223), and bake 20 minutes. 
Txu-n out on a dish, mould, add filling, and serve with Egg 
Cream Sauce. 

1190. Chocolate Souffle in Ramekins. — Cook 1 tbsp. 
butter with 2 of flour, add 3^ cup hot milk, when thick 3 beaten 
yolks, and 34 cup powdered sugar. Remove from fire, add J^ 
cup grated and melted chocolate or cocoa, 1 teasp. vanilla and 
1 of orange, and beat until cool. Fold in the beaten whites and 
turn into buttered ramekin dishes, and bake 15 minutes in a pan 
of hot water. Cover each ramekin with 1 tbsp. whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored with a few drops of brandy and serve at 
once. 

1191. Coffee Souffle.— Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 3 of 
flour, add 1 cup very strong coffee, remove from fire, add 3 
egg yolks beaten with }4 cup sugar, pinch of salt, and J^ cup 
cream. Beat well, fold in the beaten whites, turn into a buttered 
dish, and bake 25 minutes. Serve with Whipped Cream Sauce or 
Boiled Custard, flavored with orange juice and rind. 

1192. Date and Nut Souffle. — Press 1 cup stewed 
dates through a colander, add 3^ cup sugar mixed with 1 teasp. 
cornstarch, or cool and add 2 beaten yolks and a little lemon 
juice. Fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 5 eggs, turn into a but- 
tered dish, sprinkle with minced nuts, and bake 20 minutes in a 
pan of water. Serve with Boiled Custard made of the remaining 
yolks. 

1193. Italian Souffle, Sabayon. — Beat 5 yolks with 
Dover egg beater until very thick, adding 4 tbsps. sugar. Cook 
in double boiler, beating constantly until mixture is light and 
very fluffy, adding, drop by drop, 6 tbsps. of Marsala wine, or a 
good sherry or rum, and 1 tbsp. lemon juice and the grated rind. 
Serve at once in cups and cover with a spoonful of Italian Me- 
ringue (1454). 

1194. Macaroon Souffle. — Heat 1 cup stale macaroon 
crumbs in 1 cup cream, add to 3 beaten yolks, return to fire and 
cook a moment, take from fire, add beaten whites, little salt, 3^ 
teasp. almond, and 2 tbsps. brandy. Bake in buttered mould 15 
minutes, turn out, and serve with whipped and sweetened cream. 



262 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1195. Orange Souffle in Orange Shells.— To the 

juice and pulp of 5 oranges, or enough to make 13^ cups, add 1 
tbsp. arrow-root, and cook until smooth and rather thick, remove 
from fire, add 3 beaten yolks, J^ cup sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, 2 
tbsps. orange curagoa or brandy, the grated yellow rind of 1 
orange, and fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Butter and dust 
with sugar the inside of 6 orange shells or baskets, fill with the 
mixture, and bake 15 minutes in the shells. Cover each shell 
with a spoonful of whipped cream and serve at once. 

1196. Pineapple Souffle, Sabayon Sauce. — Cream 1}/^ 
tbsps. butter, add same of flour and 1 cup grated pineapple 
and juice. Cook 5 minutes, remove from fire, add little salt, 1 
tbsp. lemon juice, 3 tbsps. sugar, unless canned pineapple be 
used, and 3 beaten yolks. Bake in buttered dish 20 miiiutes. 
Serve with sauce. Cook 2 tbsps. creamed butter in double 
boiler, add 2 yolks, one at a time, beat, and add 4 tbsps. sugar, 
2 tbsps. orange juice, 3^ teasp. lemon juice, and J^ cup whipped 
cream. Serve at once quite hot. 

1197. Prune Souffle in Ramekins. — Remove stones 
from 1 dozen large prunes which have been soaked and stewed 
without sugar, and chop fine, add to 5 stiffly beaten egg whites 
beaten with 3^ cup sugar, add 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 1 of brandy, 
and pinch of salt, and turn into buttered ramekin dishes and 
bake 30 minutes in slow oven. Serve at once with a spoonful of 
whipped cream on each ramekin, or cook in a large dish and serve 
with Rich Boiled Custard. 

1198. Rice Souffle. — Boil 3^ cup rice in 3 cups water 
until soft, with a little salt, add % cup milk, and cook until milk 
is absorbed. Add 4 yolks beaten with 2 tbsps. sugar and 2 tbsps. 
butter, cook a moment, remove from fire, add 1 cup of plumped 
sultanas, 1 teasp. vanilla, and grated rind of a lemon or orange. 
Fold in the egg whites, and bake in buttered dish 30 minutes. 
Serve at once with Hard Sauce Cream. 

1199. Sponge Souffle. — Scald 2 cups milk with J^ cup 
sugar, little salt, add 3^ cup flour softened in milk. When boil- 
ing pour onto 5 beaten yolks. Fold in whites beaten stiff with 
pinch of salt, and bake in buttered dish 30. minutes in slow oven. 
Serve with Sherry or Fairy Butter Sauce. 



HOT DESSERTS 263 

Steamed Puddings 

1200. Apple Farci with Whipped Cream. — Core and 
steam until the skins break 6 Spitzenburg apples, place on 
rounds of toast or cake, fill centres with 3^ cup sugar boiled with 
1 cup water, and J^ cup each candied cherries and pineapple, 
pour over 1 cup whipped cream mixed with J^ cup minced 
almonds, 1 teasp. vanilla, and 1 tbsp. sherry. 

1201. Apple and Rice Balls. — Pare and core apples 
and steam them until nearly tender, fill centres with maple sugar 
slightly flavored with cinnamon, spread warm boiled rice on 
pieces of cheese-cloth, lay apple in centre, and roll them in balls. 
Steam them 20 minutes and serve with Hot Maple Sauce. 

1202. Chocolate and Almond Pudding. — Mix and 

cook }/2 cup each, milk, flour, grated chocolate, and 1 tbsp. butter 
until boiling, turn out, cool, and add 5 yolks beaten with ^ 
cup sugar J^ hour, beating constantly, and 1 cup minced almonds 
and 1 tbsp. vanilla. Fold in the beaten whites, fill buttered 
mould, steam 1 hour, and serve with Hard Sauce. 

1203. Cocoa and Cream of Wheat Pudding.-^Melt 

4 tbsps. rich cocoa with 2 cups milk and pour on 2 beaten yolks 
with ]/2 cup sugar. Cook in double boiler with ]/^ cup Cream of 
Wheat, stir until thick, remove from fire, add the stiflGiy beaten 
whites, turn into a buttered mould, and steam 2 hours. Turn 
out and serve with whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 
vaniUa, orange, or sherry. 

1204. Cocoanut Pudding. — Cream J^ cup butter, add 
finely minced peel of 2 lemons and 2 oranges, 3^ cup sugar, 4 
beaten yolks, 2 tbsps. Maraschino, 1 tbsp. each lemon and orange 
juice, 3^ cup flour sifted with 2 tbsps. Rice Flour, 2 tbsps. each 
grated cocoanut, minced almonds, and sponge cake or macaroon 
crumbs, and the 4 egg whites well beaten. Turn into a buttered 
mould well lined with grated cocoanut, and put in steamer on 
several folds of paper with hot water within a third of the top of 
mould. Cover and steam 1 hour. Turn out and serve sur- 
rounded with Apricot or Peach Sauce. 

1205. Cocoanut Snowballs. — Mix 3 yolks beaten very 
thick with 2 tbsps. water, 1 tbsp. orange juice, and 1 teasp. 



264 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

lemon juice. Beat well and add ^ cup sifted flour sifted 3 times 
with 2 teasps. baking-powder and }/i teasp. salt. Fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites. Fill very small round bottom moulds }/^ 
full, place on folds of paper in steamer, and steam 3^ hour. Turn 
out on a plate of cocoanut and powdered sugar, roll with 2 forks 
until they are well covered, and serve with Fruit Sauce. 

1206. Chocolate Pudding. — Cream 34 cup butter, add 

1 cup thin hot cream, and cook slightly in double boiler while 
adding 4 squares of grated chocolate, J^ cup powdered sugar, 
and 6 or 8 crumbled macaroons. Add this to 3 beaten yolks, 
return to fire, cook a moment, and fold in the beaten egg 
whites. Add a little salt, and 1 tbsp. each vanilla and sherry or 
brandy. Steam in a buttered mould 2 hours, and serve with 
whipped cream sweetened and mixed with candied fruit. Or lay 
Tunisian Preserved Orange (1808) slices around the pudding and 
pour around the cream. 

1207. Fig Pudding. — ^Mix 1 cup figs chopped fine with 1 
cup bread crumbs soaked in hot milk, 34 cup sugar, 1 cup sultanas, 
}/2 cup each seeded raisins and ciu-rants, 34 cup each chopped al- 
monds and sliced citron, 5 drops cinnamon oil, 3 of nutmeg, and 

2 of cloves, 34 teasp. salt, 34 cup suet chopped fine, and 3 beaten 
yolks. Fold in egg whites beaten stiff, add 34 cup brandy. Turn 
into buttered moulds and steam 2 hours well covered. Serve 
with Rum or Brandy Sauce or Cream Brandy Sauce. 

1208. Fresh Fruit Pudding. — Cream 34 cup butter, add 
34 cup sugar, 3^ cup milk, 2 cups flour sifted with 3 teasps. bak- 
ing-powder, and pinch salt. Add 1 cup of fruit pulp and 3 beaten 
egg whites. Steam an hour or more in buttered mould, and serve 
with Boiled Custard flavored with orange juice and rind or with 
Soft Sauce. 

1209. Fruit Snowballs.— Cream 34 cup butter, add J^ cup 
sugar, 34 cup milk, and 1 cup flour sifted with 1}^ teasps. bak- 
ing-powder. Fold in 3 stiffly beaten egg whites, fill small buttered 
cups, cover with buttered paper, and steam 3^ an hour. Turn 
flut on plates, sprinkle with powdered sugar, garnish with candied 
cherries and blanched almonds, and serve with Pistachio Sauce. 

1210. Pineapple Souffle Steamed. — Cook 1 cup grated 
pineapple with 3^ cup sugar and 2 teasps. lemon juice until 



HOT DESSERTS 265 

luther thick. Cool and beat in 4 egg whites beaten very stiff 
with ]/i teasp. cream of tartar, turn into a buttered mould 
dusted with sugar and finely minced almonds or pecans, and 
steam on folds of paper about an hour. Serve warm with Cold 
Creamy Sauce. 

1211. Pineapple Sponge. — Cream 3^ cup butter, add 
minced peel of 1 lemon, 34 cup sugar, and 3 beaten egg yolks. 
Add 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp. baking-powder and 34 teasp. 
salt, and the stifily beaten whites. Line a mould with buttered 
paper, pour in a layer of the sponge, then a layer of sliced pine- 
apple, and continue, alternately, until the dish is full. Cover 
with buttered paper and steam 1 hour. Turn out by pulling on 
the paper ends, and serve with Mousseline Sauce. 

1212. Plum Pudding (English Style). — This amount 
fills four pint bowls. Mix 1 cup beef suet chopped very fine with 
13^ cups each plumped and seeded raisins and sultanas, 1 cup 
currants, 1 cup shredded almonds, 3^ cup each sliced citron, can- 
died lemon, and orange peel, rolled in 1 cup flour, add % cup 
brown sugar, 6 drops oil of cinnamon, 4 of nutmeg, and 2 of 
cloves, and 2 cups of soft bread crumbs. Let this stand 10 days, 
then add beaten yolks and whites of 4 eggs, 1 cup of rich, 
warm milk, and 3^ cup each of brandy and sherry, fill greased 
bowls, leaving 3^ inch at top, tie on muslin covers, and immerse 
in boiling water 1 inch from the top and simmer 6 hours. Do not 
let water boil over into the pudding. When ready to serve, steam 
an hour, turn out, make a hole in the top, insert a box made of 
writing paper greased, trim edges even with the pudding, fill 
with brandy set on fire, and send to table with Frozen Sauce 
in a glass dish. 

1213. Plum and Carrot Pudding. — Scrape, cook, and 
mash 4 medium-sized carrots, add 9 tbsps. of flour, 4 of brown 
sugar, 2 of chopped suet, 3^ cup of chopped nuts, 1 of seeded 
raisins, 1 of currants, 3^ cup candied or fresh orange and lemon 
peel, 1 teasp. cinnamon, 3^ teasp. of allspice, 34 cup of brandy, 
and 1 teasp. of soda dissolved in a little water. Turn into a well- 
buttered mould, boil 5 hours, then bake it 3^ an hour. Serve 
hot with a Brandy or Sherry Sauce or with a Hard Sauce. 

1214. Plum and Graham Pudding. — ^Mix 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 1 cup milk, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 teasp. cinnamon, 3^ teasp. 



266 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

cloves, 1 cup raisins, seeded and chopped, J^ cup currants, J^ cup 
citron, sliced, 1 beaten egg, IJ^ cups graham flour, mixed with 1 
teasp. soda. Fill buttered moulds, steam 4 hours. Turn out and 
serve with Sherry Sauce. 

12 IS. Plum and Whole-Wheat Pudding.— Mix i^ cup 
beef suet, chopped fine, J^ cup sugar, ^ cup milk, 1 cup raisins, 
seeded and chopped, }/2 cup currants, J^ teasp. nutmeg or cin- 
namon, 34 teasp. salt. Add 2 cups entire-wheat flour, and 3 
teasps. baking-powder sifted twice. Fill small moulds, steam 
1}4: hours, serve with Cream Brandy Sauce. 



PASTRY 

Plain paste may be used for all pies, or they may have plain 
lower crusts, and puff-paste tops. Puff-paste tops are often 
used for fruit pies. Place all pies in hot oven to bake under- 
crust; in 3 minutes reduce heat. Cool all pies and pastry on 
wire racks. Pastry is served warm for fruit pies, slightly 
cool for meringue pies, and hot for mince pies. 

1216. Plain Paste.— Sift 3}4 cups pastry flour, with 1 
teasp. salt, add 1 cup cold lard, chop with a knife until in small 
crumbs, fill a glass jar, cover, and put in ice-box, where it will 
keep several days. This makes 2 covered pies and. 1 under- 
crust. When using, add ice-water and roll. Grease pans slightly, 
line easily, roll out cover, fill, wet edges, place on cover, spread 
with 1 tbsp. washed and slightly softened butter, bind edges 
with a strip of wet cloth, and bake. If an open pie, bake and 
cover with Meringue. 

1217. PufF Paste. — The making of pufT paste seems diffi-. 
cult to the novice, but after a little experience the difficulties 
disappear. It should be made on a cool day in a cool room with 
cool, dry fingers. Sift 2 cups pastry flour with 5^ teasp. salt, and 
1 teasp. sugar, add, a few drops at a time, a scant ^ cup of ice- 
water mixed with a few drops lemon juice, and a very small egg 
white beaten slightly. Mix with a knife until the paste can be 
handled with the fingers. Make into a ball, place in the re- 
frigerator covered with a linen cloth. Wash 1 cup butter in cold 



PASTRY DESSERTS 267 

water, changing water often, working it with a wooden spoon 
until the butter is free from salt and water and is waxy. Form 
butter in a rectangular sheet 4 by 8 inches, cover with cloth, and 
place in ice-box. After 10 minutes, roll the paste in a rectan- 
gular sheet 8 by 14 inches, place the butter in middle of lower 
half, dust butter slightly with flour, turn down upper half, pinch 
edges together, tiu-n right end over the butter and left end under 
the butter, and close edges well. Cover with cloth and put out 
to cool 15 minutes. Turn it on a floured marble or pastry cloth, 
with end toward you, and pat it gently and lightly with the roll- 
ing-pin from you until it is in a long strip about 6 inches wide 
and 14 long. Turn once, fold ends over, one over the other, and 
put away in the cloth again until it chills, about 10 minutes. 
Unless you have cool hands, repeat this 6 times, or until the 
paste is smooth and butter well covered. After a little experi- 
ence this repeated cooling is not necessary. Roll out the de- 
sired thickness, about }/^ inch for patties and biscuits, cut, and 
place on brown paper on a tin sheet. Use the inverted bottom of 
perforated layer-cake tins, as the heat must be strong from the 
bottom to make the paste puff. Cover and place in refrigerator 
or in a very cold place for an hour. Have oven very hot, put 
the pastry in ice-cold, bake 3 minutes, then reduce heat and 
finish baking, about 20 or 25 minutes. The result will be patties 
or biscuit almost two inches high, well done, light, and delicious, 
and tender. These may be made the day before, and the paste 
may also be left in the ice-box 24 hours or more before rolling 
out. Reheating does not injure the patties if done in a very hot 
oven. This pastry may be used in many different ways. If a 
shiny surface is desired, brush them with egg white just before 
baking. If a yellow surface, as well as shiny, use whole egg. 
The trimmings may be used to garnish other dishes, cut in small 
triangles, or for cheese sticks. 

1218. Puff-Paste Bouchees. — Roll paste J^ inch thick, 
cool, cut with small, round cutter, place on baking sheet, brush 
with egg, cut again with a smaller cutter dipped in boiling water, 
not quite through. Bake, remove centres, fill with fine, smooth 
mixtures, either of meat, poultry, or sweets. Replace covers 
and serve hot. 

1219. Pates. — Roll paste 3^ inch thick, cut half the pastry 
with round cutter, the other half in rings the same size, wet 



268 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

edges of patties with cold water, put on rings, brush with egg, 
cool, and bake. Fill with creamed mixtures. 

1220- Tartlets. — Roll paste J^ inch thick, line smal! patty 
tins, put on fancy rim, prick, line with paper buttered on both 
sides, fill with rice, and bake. When cool remove paper, slip 
from tins, and fill with sweet mixtures. 

1221. Vol au Vents. — Roll paste J^ inch thick, fit it 
around a vol-au-vent mould, or cover an inverted basin, prick, 
and bake. Slip from basin, fill with savory or sweet mixture, 
put on cover, cut and baked to fit, and serve warm. 

1222. Near Puff Paste. — This is as simple to make as 
plain paste, much easier than puff paste, and is sufficiently rich 
to be used often instead of puff paste. Sift 2 cups of pastry flour 
with J^ teasp. salt, and chop into it J^ cup of very cold lard, then 
chop in ]/2 cup of well-washed and very cold butter. Set bowl 
in refrigerator until very cold, then add enough ice-water to roll 
out. Roll from you into an oblong sheet, fold over ends, and roll 
again. Repeat the rolling 3 or 4 times and put the paste on 
ice until ready to use. This will keep a long time if kept very 
cold. 

1223. Almond Sweet Paste.— Sift % cup flour, J^ cup 
rice flour, and 3^ teasp. salt, add J^ cup butter, chop, and add 3 
slightly beaten yolks, J^ cup sugar, 34 lb. blanched and minced 
almonds, 1 teasp. vanilla, and cold orange flower water to make a 
paste. Roll J^ inch thick and use for foundations for sweet 
dishes, moulds of Bavarian Cream, or jellies. 

1224. English Pastry for English Tarts.— Sift 2 cups 
flour with ]/2 teasp. each baking-powder and salt, chop in }/2 cup 
butter, add 1 beaten yolk, and then the white beaten a little, and 
cold water to make a paste. Fill oval earthen dishes with fruit 
seasoned with sugar, etc. Roll paste 3^ inch thick, cut to fit 
loosely, pinch edges, prick, and bake. 

1225. Meringue for Pies. — Beat 2 egg whites until foamy 
but not dry, add 2 tbsps. fine granulated sugar, beat until dry, 
add 2 more tbsps. sugar. Pile high in centre on pies. Dust with 
sugar, and put in very slow oven, with open door if necessary, 
until a light brown crust is formed. 



PASTRY DESSERTS 269 



Pies 

1226. Apple Pie. — Peel and slice apples very thin, fill pie, 
cover with sugar, dust with cinnamon and slightly with salt, 
cover with paste, with many slits cut in centre, bind edge with 
wet strip of cloth, and place in ice-box an hour or several hours 
before baking, and bake 35 minutes or until apples are soft. 
Or peel and core apples, fill centres with sugar and seasoning, dot 
with butter, etc., bake without upper crust, and cover with J^ 
cup whipped cream. 

1227' Apple Custard Meringue. — Chop 3 large, peeled 
apples, add juice and grated rind of J^ lemon, 2 tbsps. creamed 
butter, 34 cup sugar, 34 cup orange or gooseberry marmalade, 
2 beaten yolks, and ^ cup rich milk. Fill baked undercrust 
and bake until custard is set. Cool slightly and cover with 
meringue. The marmalade may be omitted. 

1228. Apple Pie (Florentine Style). — Peel, halve, and 
core 6 apples, and stew in 1 cup water and 3^ cup sugar until ten- 
der, and lay them on baked undercrust, fill centres with orange 
marmalade and sliced citron, add sirup boiled until well reduced, 
cover with lattice top of puff-paste strips, and bake. Serve with 
whipped cream sweetened a little and flavored with vanilla. Or 
fill apples with candied fruit and minced almonds cooked in 
sugar and water, to which add juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 
and cover with meringue. 

1229. Apple Marlborough Pie. — Cut in quarters and 
stew and press through colander 4 tart, unpeeled apples, add 3 
tbsps. butter, 3 yolks beaten with J^ cup sugar, and juice and 
grated rind of 1 lemon. Fill crust, bake, and serve with me- 
ringue, or covered with whipped and sweetened cream. 

1230. Apple and Mixed Fruit Pie. — Cook a moment 2 
cups sliced apples, 1 tbsp. butter, 2 of sugar, 3 of currants, 2 of 
seeded raisins, 1 of sliced citron, grated rind of 1 lemon, and 3^ 
glass tart jelly. Line deep tin with paste, fill, cover with upper 
crust, brush lightly with melted butter, dust with powdered sugar 
and cinnamon, and bake. 

1231. Blueberry Pie. — Near Puff Paste, 2 or 3 cups blue- 
berries, 3^ cup sugar, 3^ cup red currants, 1 tbsp. flour, and 1 
teasp. butter. Bake with upper crust. 



270 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1232. Cherry Pie with Variations. — Stone 3 cups 
cherries, add ^ cup sugar, fill pie, dust with 1 tbsp. flour, 1 teasp. 
butter, and add 1 cup blueberries or red raspberries or petals of 
2 roses. Bake with upper crust. 

1233. Currants and Huckleberry Pie. — Mix 13^ cups 
of each of the fruits with ^ cup sugar, fill pie, dust with flour, 
dot with butter, and bake with upper crust. 

1234. Cranberry Pie (Colonial Style). — Cook 2 cups 
cranberries, 1 cup seeded and chopped raisins or sultanas, 3 cups 
water, 1 cup sugar, and cook untU thick, fill pie, add 1 tbsp. but- 
ter in bits, and 1 teasp. vanilla, bake, and when done pipe on 
a border of whipped and sweetened cream and garnish with 
blanched almonds. 

1235. Cream and Chocolate Pies. — Cook 2 cups milk 
with }/2 cup sugar, 4 tbsps. cornstarch, pour onto 3 beaten yolks. 
Cook until thick, add 1 teasp. butter and 1 tbsp. vanilla. If for 
chocolate, add 4 tbsps., grated, and 1 tbsp. brandy or orange 
juice, and cook 1 inch-stiick of cinnamon with custards Fill 
baked crust and cover with meringue, and brown well. 

1236. Custard Pie with Variations. — Add 2 cups warm 
milk to 3 beaten yolks and J^ cup sugar, 1 teasp. butter, and 1 
tbsp. vanilla. Fill crust, dust with nutmeg or with 3 tbsps. 
grated cocoanut, or use shaved maple sugar instead of granulated 
sugar. Bake and pipe on Mocha Caramel Cream. Or cover 
custard before baking with minced pecans, hazel nuts, or fil- 
berts. 

1237. Grape-Fruit Pie. — Mix 1 scant cup sugar, 4 tbsps. 
cornstarch, 1 teasp. butter, 2 beaten yolks, juice and grated 
rind of 1 orange, juice of 1 small grape-fruit, and 1 cup hot water. 
Cook in double boiler until thick, fill baked crust and cover 
with meringue, and brown. 

1238. Lemon Pie. — Beat 2 yolks, add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
milk, 2 tbsps. each flour and butter, juice and grated rind of 1 
small lemon, dash salt, and the stiffly beaten whites folded in 
lightly. Bake in lower crust. 

1239. Lemon Meringue. — Heat 1 cup milk, add 4 tbsps. 
cornstarch dissolved in a little water, and cook until thick, pour 



PASTRY DESSERTS 271 

it over 2 yolks beaten with 1 cup of sugar, add 2 tbsps. lemon 
juice and 1 teasp. grated rind, return to fire and cook until quite 
thick. Add 1 teasp. butter and the 2 whites beaten stiff. Bake 
crust, put in the filling, cover with a meringue made of 2 whites 
and 4 tbsps. sugar. 

1240. Mince Meat Rich.— Boil a beef tongue. Cool, trim, 
and chop, also chop 4 lbs. layer raisins, add 2 lbs. currants, 1 lb. 
of finely shaved citron, 2 lbs. chopped beef suet, 4 lbs. chopped 
apples, 2 lbs. sugar, 2 grated nutmegs, 1 tbsp. cloves, 2 of cinna- 
mon, 1 teasp. salt, 1 qt. boiled cider boiling hot, 1 qt. each best 
quality of sherry and brandy, juice and grated rind of 2 oranges 
and 2 lemons. Heat quickly without boiling, turn into cans, 
and seal. This makes about 6 quarts of mince meat. 

1241. Mince Meat Plain. — To 2 cups boiled and minced 
beef add 6 cups chopped apple, 2 lbs. seeded raisins, 1 lb. cur- 
rants, J^ lb. citron shaved, 1 cup currant jelly, grated rind and 
juice of 2 lemons and 2 oranges, 2 cups sugar, 1 lb. suet chopped 
fine, 1 cup candied orange peel shredded fine, 1 tbsp. each salt 
and cinnamon, 1 teasp. each nutmeg, cloves, and allspice, 1 pt. 
hot boiled cider, 1 qt. sherry, 1 pt. Catawba wine, 1 pt. brandy, 
and 1 cup of brandy from brandied peaches, or very rich sirup 
from sweet pickled fruit. Mix in a stone crock, cover, and let 
stand over night. Turn into cans without cooking, seal, and let 
stand a week before using. Mince pie may be garnished with 
Apple Snow. Beat 1 egg white, add 1 grated apple slowly, 3^ 
cup sugar, and 3^ teasp. vanilla. Pile on top of upper crust of 
hot pie when serving. 

1242. Orange Pie. — Beat 3 yolks, add juice and grated rind 
of 1 large orange, 3^ cup sugar, 1 tbsp. flour in ]/^ cup milk, little 
salt, fold in lightly the egg whites beaten stiff and bake in 
baked crust and serve plain, or cover with meringue. 

1243. Peach, Pear, and Plum Pies. — Follow recipe for 
Cherry Pie or English Tarts. 

1244. Peach Meringue Pie. — Use canned peaches and 
cook 1 cup juice with 2 tbsps. cornstarch, adding sugar, if 
needed, and a little lemon juice. Fill baked crust with peach 
halves, pour in the mixture, cover with meringue, dust with 
blanched and minced almonds, and brown. 



272 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1245. Pineapple Meringue Pie. — Cream }/^ cup butter, 
add J^ cup sugar, 2 cups shredded hot pineapple, 2 beaten yolks 
mixed with J^ cup milk, and 1 tbsp. each grated lemon peel and 
juice. Fill baked crust, bake, and cover with meringue. 

1246. Prune and Date Pie. — Soak and stone 2 cups 
prunes, cut 3^ cup dates in bits, add grated rind and juice of 1 
lemon, 3 tbsps. sugar, and add prune juice to soften. Fill crust, 
dust with flour, dot with butter, cover with upper crust, and 
bake. 

1247. Pumpkin or Squash Pie. — Mix IJ^ cups pumpkin 
or squash, steamed or stewed dry, % cup brown sugar, 2 beaten 
yolks, 1 teasp. cinnamon, J^ teasp. each ginger and salt, 2 scant 
cups milk, and 2 tbsps. brandy. Fill crust with a deep rim, bake 
until a knife cuts clean in centre, cover with meringue and brown, 
or with whipped, sweetened, and flavored cream, or when mix- 
ing use 1 cup milk, bake a few moments, then pour in carefully 
1 cup thick cream and bake until cream is absorbed. 

1248. Raisin Pie. — ^Mix 2 cups plumped, seeded, and 
chopped raisins, juice and chopped pulp 1 lemon, 1 cup cold 
water, and 3^ cup sugar, Fill crust, dust with flour, dot with 
butter, add grated rind of lemon. Cover with lattice crust and 
bake. 

1249. Rhubarb or Huckleberry Meringue Pie. — 

Mix 3 cups fruit, rhubarb peeled and cut in inch lengths, or 
blueberries or huckleberries well washed. A combination of 
rhubarb and huckleberry is good. Two tbsps. flour, J^ teasp. 
salt, 13^ cups sugar for rhubarb, 1 cup sugar and 1 tbsp. lemon 
juice for berries. Fill crust with deep edge, bake, cover with 
meringue, and brown. 

1250. Strawberry or Red Raspberry Pie with Cus- 
tard Cream. — Sweeten 2 cups berries, fill crust, cover with 
crust, and bake. When done lift upper crust, put in the cream, 
replace crust, and dust with powdered sugar. Cream. — Mix 1 
cup cream with 2 beaten egg whites, 1 tbsp. sugar, 3^ teasp. corn- 
starch, pinch salt, and cook 3 minutes. 

1251. English Fruit Tarts. — ^Use a deep, oval dish, fill 
with sweetened fruit, cover with English Tart Paste, pinching 
it firm on edge. Bake, dust with sugar, and serve rather warm 



PASTRY DESSERTS 273 

with a pitcher of cream. If using pineapple, cook it down 
slightly in sirup and flavor with cinnamon. Oranges and apples 
may be cooked together, and plums, peaches, etc., cooked with 
the stones for flavor. 

12S2. Mocha Caramel Fresh-Fruit Tart. — Sweeten 1 
cup fresh fruit. Make and bake 3 ovals of Puff Paste, cut cen- 
tres from 2 of them, leaving a 1-inch rim. Cover whole one with 
Mocha Caramel Custard (1096), lay on 1 rim, spread with cus- 
tard, put on last rim, flU with the fruit, and serve slightly warm. 
Or use plain custard and strawberries and cover with whipped 
cream. 

Tartlets 

1253' Almond Macaroon Tartlets. — Add to J^ of a 

thick Boiled Custard 6 macaroons pounded fine, 1 teasp. al- 
mond extract, and fill tartlets. Cover with meringue mixed 
with }/2 cup blanched and minced almonds. Brown and serve 
cool. 

1254. Almond Meringue Tartlets. — Add to 3 stiffly 
beaten egg whites 34 cup powdered sugar and 1 cup minced, 
blanched almonds. Fill tartlets, brown slightly, and cover with 
}/2 cup whipped cream, sweetened and flavored, and garnish 
with candied fruit. 

1255. Banbury Tartlets. — Chop 1 cup seeded raisins, add 
3 tbsps. sliced citron, J^ cup sugar, grated rind and juice of 1 
lemon, 1 beaten egg, and pinch of salt. Place a spoonful on one 
side of rounds of Puff Paste, wet edges, turn over the other half, 
pinch together, press edges with fork, and bake. 

1256. Bar-le-Duc Tarts with Whipped Cream. — 

Roll Puff Paste in 3-inch strips 1 inch wide, cover half of them 
with the jam. Cover with the other strips, press edges well 
together, bake, and serve warm with sweetened whipped cream 
flavored with rum. 

1257. Chestnut Tartlets. — Boil and mash 1 pt. chest- 
nuts, add J4 cup each creamed butter and cream, 1 beaten yolk, 3<C 
cup powdered sugar, Uttle salt, and l}/2 cups milk. Cover in- 
verted small patty tins with paste, bake, and fill with the mixture, 
and bake again. 



274 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1258' Coffee Cream Tarts. — Cut plain paste in rounds, 
pipe around edge Choux Paste (1510), bake, and fill with Coffee 
Filling. The edge may be glazed with Caramel before filling. 

1259- Cream Cheese Tartlets or Maids o£ Honor. — 

Mix 2 cups cream cheese with 3 tbsps. cream, 2 beaten yolks, ']/2 
cup sugar, 2 tbsps. melted butter, juice and grated rind of 1 
lemon, 3 drops almond extract, and egg whites beaten stiff, add 
J^ cup each blanched and minced almonds and currants. Fill 
tartlets, sprinkle with minced almonds, and bake 20 minutes. 
These are called "Maids of Honor," and are famous in Rich- 
mond on the Thames. 

1260. Fruit and Custard Tartlets. — ^Fill nearly baked 
tartlets with fresh, sweetened fruit. Cover with thick Boiled 
Custard, then with Meringue, and brown. 

1261. Fruit Puree in Almond Paste Tartlets. — 

Bake paste in deep patties or tartlets, fill with the puree when 
nearly set, and serve cold. Puree. — ^Press 1 cup canned peaches 
or apricots with juice through sieve, add 34 cup sugar, beat, and 
add 1 tbsp. gelatine. When nearly cold, add 1 cup mixed fresh 
fruit, and 2 tbsps. each brandy and sherry. 

1262. Orange Tartlets. — ^Fill baked tartlets with sliced 
oranges, pour in a hot, thick sirup flavored with rum or fruit 
juice, put in oven 10 minutes, and serve rather warm. 

1263. Peach or Apricot Tartlets with Raspberry 
Sauce. — Fill baked tartlets with halves of large peaches, round 
side up, and cut them in wedge-shaped slices, keeping them 
together, pour over them hot red raspberry jam or sirup cooked 
down, and bake until peaches are tender. 

1264. Pineapple Tartlets.— Fill tartlets with 1 cup grated 
pineapple mixed with 34 cup sugar, 2 beaten yolks, grated rind 
and juice 3^ lemon, and dash of salt. Bake and cover with 
meringue. 

1265. Strawberry Tartlets.— Fill baked Puff Paste Tart- 
lets, made with an extra rim, half-full with rich Boiled Custard. 
Cover with fresh strawberries, dust with sugar, and serve cold. 




Lemon juice and nutmeg may be used instead of brandy, 
sherry, or rum in the following sauces. 

COLD SAUCES 

1266. Boiled Custard. — See Custards in Cold Deserts 
(p. 241). 

1267. Brown Sugar Sauce. — Cream }/^ cup butter, add 
3^ cup brown sugar, 4 tbsps. cream, and 2 of sherry added drop 
by drop. 

1268. Caramel Sauce. — Cook 1 cup sugar until it browns 
and add J^ cup boiling water, take from fire, and when slightly 
cool a little cream may be added. 

1269. Caramel Coffee Sauce. — ^Use very strong, hot 
coffee instead of water to melt the sugar. 

1270. Claret Sauce. — Boil 1 cup sugar and 1 cup water 5 
minutes, cool, and add )/2 cup claret. 

1271. Coffee Sauce. — Beat 2 yolks very thick, add 14, cup 
sugar, and beat again, add ^ cup of very strong, hot coffee, and 
cook in double boiler until it thickens. When cool add a pinch 
of salt and 1 cup of cream. 

1272. Creamy Sauce. — Boil 1 cup granulated sugar and 
]/2 cup water 6 minutes, and pour in a fine stream on 1 egg white 
beaten dry, beating constantly until cold, then fold in 1 cup of 
whipped cream and add fiavoring. 

1273. Egg Sauce. — Beat 3 yolks with 1 cup sugar 10 min- 
utes, add whites beaten very stiff, with pinch of salt, 2 tbsps. 
of sherry or brandy or 1 of vanilla. 

275 



276 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1274. Frozen Sauce. — Cook 1 cup sugar with }/2 cup water 
until it threads, pour slowly onto 3 egg whites beaten very stiff, 
beat until cold, add juice of 1 orange and 1 lemon, and ^ cup 
wine. Pack in small pail in ice and salt until half -frozen. 

1275. Fruit Sauce. — Beat 2 egg whites stiff, add J^ cup 
powdered sugar, pinch salt, and as much fruit juice and pulp as 
the eggs will take up. 

1276. Hard Sauce Cream. — Cream 4 tbsps. butter, add- 
ing 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 teasp. vanilla, and 3^ cup whipped 
cream. Place in dish in a mould, make depression in centre, 
fill with 1 tbsp. brandy, and dust well with nutmeg. 

1277. Jelly Sauce. — Beat 3 yolks very thick with J^ cup 
sugar and pinch of salt, add IJ^ cups hot milk, cook until thick, 
add 1 tbsp. gelatine, cool, and add 1 or 2 tbsps. flavoring, fruit 
juice, or wine. 

1278. Maple Sugar Sauce. — Cover % cup shaved maple 
sugar with 3^ cup water, boil to soft-ball stage, remove from fire, 
and pour slowly into 2 egg whites beaten stiff with a pinch of 
salt, beat until cold, and add J^ cup cream and 1 teasp. vanilla. 

1279. Maple Sirup Sauce. — Beat 2 yolks until thick, 
place over hot water on fire, add in a thin stream 34 cup hot 
maple sirup. When spoon is coated, take from fire, beat until 
cold, add 3^ cup whipped cream and dash salt. 

1280. Maple and Pecan Sauce. — Cream 3^ cup butter, 
add 1 cup shaved maple sugar and 3^ cup of minced pecans. 

1281. Orange Sauce. — Beat 3 egg whites stiff, add 3^ cup 
powdered sugar, grated rind, pulp, and juice of 2 oranges. 

1282. Pistachio Sauce. — Boil 1 cup sugar, 2 cups water, 
and 1 scant tbsp. arrow-root 5 minutes, add 1 teasp. vanilla, 
3^ teasp. almond or pistachio extract, and 3^ cup minced pis- 
tachio nuts. This may be colored pale green and 1 tbsp. Mara- 
schino may be added. 

1283. Rum or Brandy Sauce. — Beat and cook 2 yolks 
with 3^ cup powdered sugar, add 2 tbsps. Jamaica rum or brandy, 
add the whites beaten stiff with little salt, and when very cold 
add, if desired, 3^ cup whipped cream. 



HOT PUDDING SAUCES 277 

1284. Whipped Cream Sauce. — ^Whip 1 cup cream, 
add J/^ cup powdered sugar, 1 egg white beaten stiff, with a dash 
of salt, 1 teasp. vanilla, 1 of almond, or 1 tbsp. Maraschino, 
Kiimmel, or any cordial desired. 

1285. Whipped Cream Butter Sauce. — Cream 2 tbsps. 
butter, add ^ cup powdered sugar and 1 beaten egg, speck salt, 
1 teasp. vanilla, and 1 of grated lemon. Add 1 cup whipped 
cream and dust with nutmeg. 

1286. Yellow Sauce. — Cook 1 cup sugar with J^ cup of 
water until it threads, pour it onto 3 egg yolks and whip until 
cold, put on ice, and flavor with Maraschino or rum, and add 3^ 
cup of whipped cream. Serve very cold. 



HOT SAUCES 

1287. Apricot or Peach Sauce. — Cook J^ cup apricot or 
peach jam or preserves, ^ cup water, 3 tbsps. sugar, minced 
peel and juice of 1 lemon, and 3^ cup orange flower water. When 
boiling add 1 tbsp. rice flour or cornstarch dissolved in 3 tbsps. 
rum or water, and color the sauce a pale pink. Press through a 
fine sieve and serve hot. 

1288. Banana Sauce. — Boil 1 cup water and J^ cup sugar 
until it threads, take from fire, add to 3 peeled and mashed 
bananas, 2 beaten eggs, 2 tbsps. lemon juice and grated rind, 
dash of salt. Return to fire until boiling. 

1289. Brandy Sauce. — Cream J^ cup butter, add 1 cup 
powdered sugar and creanj again, add 1 beaten egg white, 2 
tbsps. each brandy and boiling water. 

1290. Brandy Sauce Cardinal. — ^Mix 3^ cup sugar with 
1 teasp. arrow-root and a little salt. Add slowly 1 cup boiling 
water and simmer 5 minutes. Add 1 tbsp. lemon juice and 1 of 
grated rind. Cook a moment, strain, and add 3^ cup brandy, 
and color a deep cardinal with vegetable liquid or fruit juice. 

1291. Caramel Nut Sauce. — Add to 1 cup of thick, 
hot caramel 1 cup of broken pecans or pignolis meats, and pour 
over ice-cream. As a variation of flavor, add 4 tbsps. hot coffee 
or melted chocolate. 



278 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1292. Chocolate Sauce. — Boil 3^ cup sugar, 1 cup water, 
an inch-stick cinnamon, strain, and add 4 tbsps. chocolate dis- 
solved in }/2 cup milk, 1 teasp. arrow-root or cornstarch dissolved 
in 3^ cup water, and dash salt. Boil 5 minutes, beating con- 
stantly with Dover beater, and flavor with vanilla, brandy, or 
orange juice. 

1293. Cream Brandy Sauce. — Cook 1 cup sugar with J^ 
cup water until it threads, add slowly to 3 beaten yolks mixed 
with 2 tbsps. brandy, add 54 cup cream and dash salt. 

1294. Cream Sherry Sauce. — Cream 2 tbsps. butter with 
}/2 cup sugar, add 2 beaten yolks, 1 cup hot cream, and cook until 
thick, and add 3 tbsps. sherry. 

1295. Cream Butter Sauce. — Cream 4 tbsps. butter, add 
6 of sugar, 4 tbsps. cream, and 2 of sherry or brandy, or 1 tbsp. 
of vanilla and 1 of lemon juice. Heat in double boiler and serve 
before it becomes oily. 

1296. Currant Jelly Sauce. — Melt J^ cup currant jelly 
with % cup water and add 1 tbsp. lemon juice. 

1297. Fairy Butter Sauce. — Cream J^ cup butter with 
1 cup of sugar, then put it in a bowl of hot water and steam until 
it is soft. Flavor with sherry or with vanilla. 

1298. Foam Sauce. — Add J/^ cup powdered sugar to 3 
stifHy beaten egg whites and 1 teasp. flavoring, add slowly 1 cup 
boUing water, and serve at once. 

1299. Fruit Sauce. — Boil }4 cup sugar with 1 of water 5 
minutes, add 3^ can apricots, peaches, strawberries, or J^ cup 
fruit juice or sirup, and 1 tbsp. arrow-root dissolved in 34 cup 
water. When boiling, press through sieve. To make a thicker 
sauce, add to 1 egg beaten with Dover beater, beat well, and 
serve. If fruit be very sweet, use less sugar. 

1300. Maple Sauce. — Boil 1 cup of maple sirup and skim, 
add 3^ cup fresh butter rubbed with 1 tbsp. of flour. Boil until 
flour is cooked and serve very hot. 

1301. Mousseline Sauce. — ^Whip in double boiler 4 yolks, 
add 2 beaten whites and 4 tbsps. sugar, and cook until thick. 



HOT PUDDING SAUCES 279 

adding by degrees 34 cup each Maraschino, rum and water, 
and pineapple juice. Pour at once over pudding. 

1302. Orange Sauce. — Cook 3^ cup sugar with 1 tbsp. 
rice flour and 1 cup water, add 1 teasp. lemon juice, 34 cup orange 
juice, and grated rind of 1 orange. Serve with boiled rice or rice 
pudding. 

1303. Orange Cream Sauce. — Cream 3 tbsps. butter in 
double boiler, add 3 yolks, one at a time, 3 tbsps. sugar, 4 tbsps. 
cream, and cook until thick. Add the beaten whites and grated 
rind of 1 orange and 34 cup of juice. 

1304. Plain Sauce. — Cream 2 tbsps. butter, add 3^ cup 
sugar, little salt, and 1 cup boiling water. Dissolve 1 teasp. corn- 
starch in a little cold water, add to the sauce, and flavor with 
fruit juice, jelly, jam, or wine. 

1305. Soft Sauce.' — Cream 2 tbsps. butter with ^ cup 
powdered sugar, add 3 beaten yolks, and 1 teasp. cornstarch in a 
little water, and cook 2 minutes, add juice and grated rind of 1 
lemon, or 2 tbsps. brandy, and 3^ cup boiling water. 

1306. Sherry Sauce. — Cream 3 tbsps. butter with 1 cup 
powdered sugar, set bowl in boiling water, stir over fire 5 min- 
utes, add 3 tbsps. sherry, and serve at once. 

1307. Vanilla Sauce. — Cream ^ cup butter, add same of 
powdered sugar, place bowl in boiling water, add 1 cup milk or 
cream, and 1 tbsp. vanilla. Stir until smooth and creamy. 




French ice-cream is frozen custard, and Philadelphia ice- 
cream is frozen cream, and all fancy creams that are stirred 
while freezing are a variation of these two recipes. Biscuits, 
mousses, parfaits, etc., are frozen without stirring. 

Ice-cream frozen in a freezer may be served directly from 
the freezer with an ice-cream scoop or large spoon into glasses, 
or it may be packed into moulds, and repacked to ripen an 
hour or more, or the dasher may be removed and the cream 
left in the cylinder, repacked, and turned out on a dish from 
which it may be served. Creams may also be moulded in 
1-lb. baking-powder boxes and cut in slices when served. 
These creams require finely chopped ice. Use 1 part salt 
to 3 parts ice, and pack cylinder nearly to the top before 
pouring in cream. When frozen pack over the top, and 
cover with a blanket wet in cold brine. In packing moulds of 
cream or mousse, parfaits, etc., use 1 part salt to 4 parts ice, 
and cover with the wet blanket. When moulding creams 
line moulds with strips of wax paper, leaving projecting ends 
which may be pulled slightly to assist in unmoulding. To 
unmould, plunge moulds for a second in warm water, then 
pull gently with the paper, cover with dish upon which it is 
to be served, turn oipside down and leave for a moment, and 
the mould may be gently removed. When serving any 
frozen desserts on glass dishes, put a layer of cotton-batting 
under a paper doily, which will prevent breaking the dish. 

280 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES. AND FRAPPES 281 



CREAMS STIRRED WHILE FREEZING 

1308- French Ice-Cream. — ^Pour 2 cups scalded milk over 
5 beaten egg yolks mixed with 1 cup sugar and a dash of salt, cook 
until it coats the spoon, add 1 teasp. butter, strain through 
coarse sieve, and beat until cold. Add 1 cup cream whipped and 
1 or more tbsps. of flavoring. For a vanilla cream use 1 tbsp. 
vanilla, or cook a split vanilla bean with the custard. If a 
whiter and richer cream is desired, use 3 yolks, 1 cup less milk, 
and 2 cups cream. This may be served in glasses with 1 tbsp. 
Benedictine, sherry, brandy, or any desired liqueur poured over 
or in a hole in centre. 

1309. Philadelphia Ice-Cream. — ^Cook 2 cups thin 
cream a few moments, add 1 cup sugar and dash of salt, remove 
from fire, and add 2 cups of whipped cream, beat until cold, and 
add flavoring. A split vanilla bean may be cooked with the 
milk. Freeze as above. If sweet mixtures are added to these 
creams, reduce the amount of sugar. 

1310. Almond Caramel Ice-Cream. — Blanch and 
brown lightly with a dash of salt J^ lb. almonds, add 1 cup sugar, 
and melt slowly until the almonds are a light brown, pour them 
into a greased pan, and when cool pound into fine crumbs and 
add to French Ice-cream flavored with vanilla and almond be- 
fore freezing. The cream may be flavored with orange juice and 
a few powdered macaroons or a little minced pineapple may be 
added to the custard. 

1311. Almond and Macaroon Ice-Cream. — Chop 
nuts fine, add macaroon crumbs, and soak in flavored sirup, add 
to French or Philadelphia cream when partly frozen, pack cream, 
and when serving cover with chopped almonds or pistachio nuts. 

1312. American Ice-Cream for Children's Parties. — 

Mix 2 tbsps. flour with J^ cup cold milk until smooth, add 1 qt. 
hot milk, and simmer this in double boiler 3^ hour, add dash salt, 
1 teasp. butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 beaten yolks, and cook 2 or 3 
minutes. Strain and cool. Add 2 cups cream, 2 tbsps. vanilla, 
and add 1 cup of powdered macaroons or stale lady fingers. 
This will serve twelve. 



282 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1313- Angel Ice-Cream. — Bake Angel Cake in an oval 
pan, cut a lid from the top, scoop out centre, and fill with French 
or Philadelphia Ice-cream, replace lid, pour over a hot ice-cream 
sauce, and serve at once. 

1314. Baked Alaska. — Freeze French or Philadelphia Ice- 
cream and pack in a round mould, and let stand until frozen very 
hard. Unmould on a larger round of sponge cake placed on a 
board with wax paper between, cover quickly with a layer of 
meringue of 4 egg whites and 4 tbsps. granulated sugar. Dust 
with granulated sugar and place in hot oven until meringue is 
brown and serve at once. A skilful hand will be able to pipe 
an extra layer of the meringue on through a pastry tube. 

1315. Brown-Bread Ice-Cream. — Add to French Ice- 
cream before freezing 1 cup of Brown or Graham Bread crumbs 
dried and browned slightly in oven. 

1316. Cantaloupe Ice-Cream (Buda Pesth). — Add to 

French Ice-cream before freezing 2 cups of mashed muskmelon 
or cantaloupe, flavor with vanilla and Kirschwasser. 

1317. Cantaloupe Ice-Cream (Lillian Russell). — 

Fill very small cantaloupe halves with French Ice-cream and 
cover with ripe red raspberries. 

1318. Caramel Ice-Cream. — Add to French Ice-cream 
before freezing 3^ cup of hot caramel. Flavor with vanilla and 
serve with Oranges Tunisian (1808). Browned macaroon crumbs 
may be added before freezing. 

1319. Caramel Mocha Ice-Cream.— Make as above, 
having caramel made with strong, hot coffee instead of water, 
and add 1 tbsp. ground coffee to the scalding milk. 

1320. Caramel Ice-Cream with Pecans.— Break 2 cups 
nuts and -pour over them in a shallow pan the boiling caramel. 
When cold, chop fine and add to ice-cream mixture. Save some 
of the carameled nuts to sprinkle over cream when serving. 

1321. Cherry and Almond Ice-Cream.— Add to French 
Ice-cream when half-frozen 1 cup of candied or preserved cher- 
ries and 1 cup of blanched and shredded almonds, flavor with 
almond extract and sherry or Maraschino. 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES. AND FRAPPES 283 

1322. Chocolate Ice-Cream with Variations. — Melt 
3 or 4 ounces or squares of grated chocolate in ]/2 cup milk 
and 1 inch-stick of cinnamon. Flavor with vanilla and 1 tbsp. 
brandy and add to French or Philadelphia Ice-cream. With 
Cantaloupe or Watermelon Dice: Soak the dice in sherry, 
sprinkle with sugar, and add to the cream when half-frozen. 
With Marshmallows: Cut marshmallows in small pieces, soften 
them, and add when cream is half-frozen, or serve the cream 
in glasses and cover with Marshmallow Sauce (1443). With 
Oranges: Make Philadelphia Ice-cream, when nearly frozen 
pack in a mould in alternate layers with Orange Ice or peeled 
and sliced blood oranges instead of the ice. Orange Marmalade 
may also be used. With Pineapple or Red Raspberries: Soak 
the fruit in sweetened sherry and add to Philadelphia Ice-cream 
when nearly frozen. Or use preserved ginger with the preserved 
pineapple, soaking it in brandy. 

1323. Choux Filled with Ice-Cream. — ^Make small 
Choux or Cream Puff (1510). Cut a lid from the top, fill with ice- 
cream, replace lid, and serve the puffs in champagne glasses, each 
one covered with a spoonful of Hot Maple Sauce, or any hot Ice- 
cream Sauce. 

1324. Coffee Cocoa Ice-Cream. — Make French Ice- 
cream, using but 1 cup of milk and 1 cup of very strong coffee, 
and add 2 tbsps. cocoa or grated chocolate. Serve in sherbet 
glasses, make a hole in centre, and pour in 1 tbsp. Maraschino 
and cover with a spoonful of Italian Meringue (1454) ; dust with 
cocoa mixed with cinnamon. 

1325. Coffee Cocoa Ice-Cream, Fontainebleau. — 

This may be served in tiny brown earthen flower-pots without 
the meringue. Fill the pots, smooth them over, dust with cocoa 
and cinnamon, and stick a flower in the centre. This is the way 
ice-cream is served at a restaurant in the famous forest of Fon- 
tainebleau. Plain French Ice-cream is often used, but it must be 
well dusted with the cocoa. 

1326. Cornucopias of Ice-Cream. — Make a thin, sweet 
wafer mixture and bake as thin as possible on greased tin sheet- 
Cut while warm in 4-inch squares and roll in cornucopia shapes. 
When cold, fill with ice-cream. 



284 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1327- Croquettes of Ice-Cream. — Freeze ice-cream 
very hard, take out with the ice-cream scoop which forms a 
pyramid, roll them in minced and browned almonds, put on 
plates, and surround with Pistachio or Rum Sauce. 

1328. Delmonico Ice-Cream. — This is sometimes called 
New York Ice-cream and it is the French Ice-cream, using but 
1 cup of milk, twice the number of eggs, and twice the amount 
of cream. 

1329. Egg Nogg (Frozen). — Beat 4 yolks very light, add 1 
cup sugar, 2 tbsps. rum, and 3 of brandy, and place in the cool 
over night, add 2 cups rich, scalded milk, beat until cold, add 1 
cup whipped cream, pinch salt, and 1 teasp. vanilla. Turn into 
freezer and when nearly frozen fold in the egg whites beaten 
stiff. Finish freezing and serve in glasses with a grating of nut- 
meg over each. 

1330. Grape Juice Ice-Cream. — ^Make Philadelphia Ice- 
cream with 1 cup of unf ermented grape juice, using 1 cup less of 
the milk. 

1331. Kiss Ice-Cream. — Add to Philadelphia Ice-cream 
about a cup of fresh kisses (meringues) broken in small pieces 
and finish freezing. 

1332. Marron Ice-Cream. — Use either French Ice-cream 
with a white sauce or Philadelphia Ice-cream with yellow sauce. 
Soak 1 cup of Preserved Chestnuts (1801) with the sirup, or a 
half-pint bottle of Marrons Glaces, cut in small pieces, in brandy 
an hour, add to the cream when nearly frozen, pack it in a mould 
with a tube in centre, unmould, fill centre with whipped cream, 
and pour the sauce around. 

1333. Hazel Nut Ice-Cream. — To a French Ice-cream 
add minced and browned hazel nuts and powdered macaroons 
and garnish with browned hazel nuts. 

1334. Macaroon Ice-Cream. — Add to French Ice-cream 
when nearly frozen 1 cup of powdered and browned macaroons 
and flavor with sherry and almond extract. Serve with Coffee 
Sauce. 

1335. Maple and Nut Ice-Cream.— Make French Ice- 
cream, using shaved maple sugar instead of granulated sugar, 
and add pecans or English walnut meats broken in small pieces. 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES, AND FRAPPES 285 

1336. Meringue Glaces.— Fill Meringue Cases (1455) 
with ice-cream, dip edges in slightly beaten egg white, and put 
two together and serve one of these to each person. 

1337. Mint Ice-Cream. — Serve Philadelphia Ice-cream 
in sherbet glasses. Cook 1 cup sugar with 3^ cup water and ]/2 
cup of bruised mint, add J^ cup of grape-fruit juice, strain and 
cool, and pour over the cream. Garnish with whipped cream 
and fresh mint leaves dusted with powdered sugar. 

1338. Nougat Ice-Cream. — Add to French Ice-cream 
when half-frozen J^ cup each minced pistachio nuts, filberts or 
hazel nuts, pecans, and almonds. Flavor with vanilla, almond, 
and 1 tbsp. of Noyaux cordial. 

1339. Orange Ice-Cream. — Add J^ cup of orange juice 
and 2 tbsps. grape-fruit juice or lemon juice to a Philadelphia 
Ice-cream, omitting 1 cup of milk. When half -frozen, add the 
grated pulp of 2 oranges, blood oranges preferred, and 1 cup of 
minced almonds may also be added. Turn into a mould and 
finish freezing. Garnish with quarters of blood oranges. Man- 
darins or Tangerines may be used instead of the oranges. 

1340. Peach Ice-Cream with Bar-Ie-Duc— Half-fill 
large champagne or sherbet glasses with a spoonful of French 
Ice-cream, cover with halves of stoned fresh peaches or brandied 
peaches filled with Bar-le-Duc or home-made currant jam, and 
cover with Italian Meringue (1454). 

1341. Peaches, Brandied with Ice-Cream (Peche 
Nordica). — Place spoonfuls of French Ice-cream on Sponge- 
cake slices cut in disks, cover with halves of brandied peaches, 
dust with freshly grated cocoanut, and pour around the brandy 
sirup mixed with small amount of port wine. 

1342. Peaches and Pineapple with Ice-Cream 
(Peches Dame Blanche, Escoffier). — Put a spoonful of 
Philadelphia Cream in sherbet glasses, cover with peach halves 
which have been cooked in vanilla sirup and cooled, cover with 
thin slices of pineapple soaked in Kirschwasser and Maraschino, 
surmount with a spoonful of whipped cream flavored with 
vanilla. 

1343. Peaches and Ice-Cream with Red Raspberry 
Sirup (Peches Melba). — ^Poach halves of fresh or canned 



286 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

peaches in vanilla sirup of 1 cup water, 3^ cup sugar, 1 tbsp. 
vanilla, or split bean, until tender, but not soft, when cold place 
them on a mound of French Ice-cream flavored with vanilla 
and placed on rounds of sponge cake, and pour over warm, 
thick, red raspberry sirup, cooked down with the remainder of 
the vanilla sirup. This may be served in one large glass dish or 
in individual glasses. 

1344' Peanut Ice-Cream. — ^Make a vanilla cream, and 
when nearly frozen add ground peanut brittle. 

1345. Peppermint Candy Ice-Cream (Southern 
Recipe). — Add to partly frozen Philadelphia Ice-cream J^ 
cup each seeded raisins, minced pecans, and shredded almonds, 
and 1 cup of peppermint-stick candy crushed fine. Freeze in 
a mould and garnish with whipped cream streaked with red 
coloring liquid. This is done by drawing a fork dipped in the 
color quickly through the cream. 

1346. Pears with Ice-Cream (Poires Helene, Es- 
coflier). — Poach peeled and cored pear halves in vanilla sirup, 
cool, and put them on Philadelphia Ice-cream, pour over a 
Caramel Cocoa Sauce, and garnish "with candied violets or cher- 
ries. 

1347. Pears on Ice-Cream (Mary Garden). — Follow 
recipe for PIches Melba, using pears instead of peaches, and 
garnish with Maraschino cherries. 

1348. Pineapple Ice-Cream. — Make and partly freeze 
French Ice-cream without the cream, remove dasher, add the 
whipped cream and 1 cup of pineapple cut in cubes and 3 tbsps. 
rum. Pack in a mould and serve with a garnish of candied fruits. 

1349. Pineapple Ice-Cream without Cream. — Scald 
2 cups milk, add 3^ cup flour dissolved in a cup of milk. Cook 5 
minutes, pour onto 4 eggs mixed with 1 cup of sugar, return to 
double boiler, cook a moment, remove from fire, and beat until 
cool and add dash salt, 1 teasp. vanilla, and 1 teasp. lemon 
juice. Partly freeze cream, add 1 can pineapple drained and 
cut in cubes and covered with ]4, cup sugar, turn into a mould, 
and pack. Let ripen 3 hours. Peaches may be used instead of 
pineapple with another 3^ cup sugar. 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES, AND FRAPPES 287 

13S0. Pistachio Ice-Cream in Orange Jelly. — Make 
half the recipe of Philadelphia Ice-cream. Fill a mould with 
Orange Jelly, when set scoop out all but a half-inch layer of the 
jelly, or use a mould in which a bowl of ice may be set, fill 
between with the jelly, when set change ice-water for hot water 
and remove bowl. Fill with the cream partly frozen and flavor 
with pistachio, pack, and leave 2 or 3 hours to freeze hard and 
ripen. Serve garnished with minced pistachio nuts. 

1351 • Pumpkin Ice-Cream for Thanksgiving. — 

Make a French Ice-cream with 2 additional egg yolks and J^ cup 
sugar. Partly freeze, add enough blanched almonds to represent 
the seeds and the pulp of an orange pulled into shreds, finish 
freezing and fill a scooped-out pumpkin, and serve on a large 
platter, with pumpkin vine with leaves and small unripe pump- 
kins on the vine. This can be made out of paper if the green vine 
is not obtainable. 

1352. Rice Ice-Cream, White or Yellow.— Boil 2 
tbsps. rice in 2 cups milk with 1 scant cup of sugar, a dash of 
salt, split vanilla bean, and a small stick of cinnamon, for an 
hour or more. When cold add }/2 cup of minced almonds and 
2 cups of whipped cream, and 2 egg whites beaten stiff. Freeze 
and serve in sherbet glasses with 1 teasp. of any cordial poured 
over. A violet-colored cordial is preferred. Or use 4 egg yolks 
instead of the egg whites and pour over when serving sliced 
peaches. 

1353. Ice-Cream Snow Balls. — Freeze Philadelphia Ice- 
cream very hard, remove dasher, pack, and let ripen 3 hours, 
keeping it well packed. Take it out in the form of balls with 2 
tbsps. or with a round ice-cream scoop, roll each one quickly in 
fresh-grated cocoanut, lay them on a platter on paper doily, 
and when serving pass a pitcher containing one of the Ice-cream 
Sauces, Claret, or Sauterne Sauce, either hot or cold. 

1354. Strawberries and Ice-Cream (St. Regis). — 

Serve French Ice-cream in champagne glasses, cover each with a 
spoonful of strawberries crushed with sugar, and garnish with 
very large whole strawberries. 

1355. Strawberry Ice-Cream in Red Apples (The 
Plaza). — Add 1 cup of crushed strawberries to Philadelphia Ice- 



288 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

cream when partly frozen. Fill scooped-out red apples, cover 
with a meringue, brown it with a salamander, and garnish with 
fresh strawberries and leaves of angelica. 

1356. Violet Ice-Cream. — Add to Philadelphia Ice-cream 
yi cup of CrSme Yvette cordial and color violet with violet ex- 
tract coloring, or with the color obtained by pounding fresh 
violets and squeezing the juice through cheese-cloth. Freeze 
partly, then turn into a pretty mould and freeze hard. Serve 
garnished with fresh violets, delicately veiled with spun sugar. 
The sugar may be spun and lifted carefully and laid around the 
cream just before serving. 

Biscuits 

Biscuits are Yellow Parfaits to which a few beaten whites 
of eggs are added. They are partly frozen in a freezer, 
then packed in small boxes and placed in an ice cave, or 
in cylinder of freezer, or in brick moulds, or in a deep pail, 
with stiff cardboard and wax paper between each layer. 
They are then packed in ice and salt and left two or three 
hours to ripen. The boxes are served on doilies. The boxes 
may be round or square or oblong. 

1357. Biscuit Glace. — Flavor Yellow Parfait with 1 teasp. 
of vanilla, 2 tbsps. Maraschino, and 1 tbsp. Kirschwasser or 
Sherry, add the beaten whites of 2 eggs. Partly fill boxes, cover 
with a layer of colored water ice, and pack. 

1358. Biscuit Glace Diplomate.— Make half the quan- 
tity of Biscuit Glace, fill boxes, cover with a layer of candied 
fruits in small pieces, then with a layer of pounded macaroon 
crumbs. When serving cover with a layer of whipped cream 
streaked with red or colored pink, dust with cinnamon and 
browned almonds, and serve at once. 

1359. Biscuit Tortoni.— Flavor Yellow Parfait with 1 
teasp. vanilla, 1 tbsp. caramel, 2 tbsps. sherry or brandy, add 
2 egg whites beaten and 3^ cup each dry macaroon and lady- 
finger crumbs. Pack in boxes and cover with more macaroon 
crumbs and almonds minced and browned. 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES, AND FRAPPES 289 

1360. Biscuit and Strawberry Tortoni. — ^Partly fill 
boxes with Tortoni, as above, then with a layer of strawberry 
ice, or put the ice in boxes first. 

Bombes 

Bombes. — ^These are moulds usually lined with water ice 
and filled with French or Philadelphia Ice-Cream, Parfait, 
Mousse, or Cream Chantilly, then packed in ice and salt, and 
frozen, or they may be lined with the cream and filled with 
the ice. Bombes were originally supposed to be round, but 
now moulds of any shape, if made in this manner, are called 
Bombes. All ices and creams to be frozen in bombes should 
be made of sugar sirup instead of the uncooked sugar. Cook 
2 cups sugar with 3^ cup water. 

1361' Blueberry Bombe. — ^Pack mould in ice and salt, 
remove lid, and line with Blueberry or Huckleberry Water Ice 
about an inch thick, fill with Philadelphia Ice-cream or Cream 
Chantilly (1453). 

1362. Coffee Cocoa Bombe. — Line mould with Coffee Ice 
flavored with a little chocolate, fill with Chantilly Cream (1453), 
or Philadelphia Cream filled with green and red candied fruit 
cut in small bits and soaked in sherry or brandy. 

1363. Italian Bombe. — Line mould with French Ice- 
cream and fill with whipped cream mixed with nuts, fruits, and 
candied orange peel. 

1364. Melon and Peach Bombe. — Line mould with 
Peach Ice-cream, cover and pack for an hour or more, then fill 
with small pieces of cantaloupe or watermelon sweetened and 
flavored with lemon juice and rum. Cover and let ripen 3 hours. 

1365. Peach and Praline Bombe. — Line a mould with 
Peach or Apricot Ice, fill with French Ice-cream, to which add 1 
cup powdered pecans. 

1366. Pistachio Bombe. — Line mould with Pistachio lee 
and fill with French Ice-cream, to which add 1 cup of minced 



290 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

pistachio nuts. Where round moulds of different sizes are ob- 
tainable, this is very pretty made in the following manner: Fill 
large moulds with the ice-cream, fill a very small fancy mould 
with the ice. When serving place the smaller one on top of the 
large one, pipe ChantUly Cream colored pale pink around large 
mould. 

1367. Sultana Roll Bombe. — Line a cylinder mould with 
Peach, Red Raspberry, or Strawberry Ice colored pink, sprinkle 
with sultana raisins soaked in brandy, rum, or sherry (a few 
bits of candied fruits may be added if liked), fill with Philadelphia 
Ice-cream or Cream Chantilly, pack in ice and salt, and serve 
with Claret Sauce (1438). This may be reversed, having mould 
lined with the cream and filled with the ice. Or a green water 
ice may be used, flavored with mint or pistachio. 

1368. Watermelon Bombe.— Line a melon mould with ^ 
inch of Pistachio Ice-cream. Fill with Red Raspberry Ice, in 
which place tiny pieces of sweet chocolate cut to resemble the 
seeds. 

Coupes 

Coupes are tall stemmed glasses or champagne glasses filled 
with a mijrture of ice-cream, ices, fruits, and whipped cream 
in layers or in upright halves or quarters. The following 
combinations are all suitable for coupes: Coffee ice-cream 
and peaches, with macaroons soaked in brandy and orange 
ice. French ice-cream and preserved chestnuts, and red 
raspberry or pineapple ice. Philadelphia ice-cream with 
strawberries and strawberry ice. The coupes may be veiled 
with spun sugar instead of the whipped cream. 

1369. Coupes d' Amour .—Place peeled and seeded Malaga 
grapes soaked in Maraschino in glasses, half-fill with French or 
Philadelphia Ice-cream. Pour over 1 tbsp. Parfait d' Amour 
cordial and cover with Italian Meringue (1454).' 

1370. Coupes Edna May (Escoffier).— Half-fill glasses 
with French Ice-cream, cover with slightly cooked cherries, then 



FROZEN CREAMS, ICES. AND FRAPPES 291 

with a cone of Chantilly Cream (1453) mixed with mashed red 
raspberries and colored pink. 

1371. Coupes Jacques. — Fill glasses vertically, one side 
with a fruit ice and the other with ice-cream, and place on top 
a mound of fresh fruit soaked in Kirsch or sherry or rum. Any 
variation of color may be used, also two ices or two creams. If 
two creams are used the covering may be an ice without the 
fruit. 

1372. Coupes Peches. — Half-fill glasses with French or 
Philadelphia Ice-cream, place a turned-up half of a peach poached 
in vanilla sirup in each, fill with bar-le-duc, and cover with 
Lemon or Orange Ice. 

Mousses 
Frozen without Stirring 

Mousses are composed of sugar sirup, flavoring or fruit 
juice, small amount of gelatine, and whipped cream, and are 
frozen in moulds without stirring. Granulated gelatine may 
be used, as the small quantity required is more easily meas- 
ured. 

1373. Benedictine Mousse in Lady-Finger Mould. — 

Stick leaves and stems of angelica and candied violets on the 
round side of lady fingers, with plain frosting, to represent violets 
on the stem, line a mould brushed with almond or olive oil, and 
fill with the following mousse mixture. Beat 3 cups cream very 
stiff, add 1 cup sugar sirup, 2 tbsps. Benedictine cordial, 1 teasp. 
vanilla, and 1 tbsp. gelatine softened in J^ cup of cold water, and 
dissolve over hot water. Beat well. 

1374. Cafe Mousse with Burnt Almonds. — Cook ^ 
cup sugar in }/2 cup strong coffee, add 1 tbsp. gelatine soaked in 
yi cup of the coffee, strain and cool, and add to 3 cups of whipped 
cream, turn into a mould, . bind with strip of cloth dipped in 
melted lard, and pack in ice and salt for 3 or 4 hours. Serve 
covered with minced burnt-almond bonbons. 

137 5. Chocolate Mousse and Orange Tunisian. — 

Follow recipe for Cafe Mousse, using milk instead of coffee and 



292 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

y^ cup of grated chocolate. Serve covered with slices of Orange 
Tunisian (1808). 

1376. Grape Juice Mousse. — ^Follow recipe for Caf^ 
Mousse, using 1 cup of grape juice instead of the coffee. 

1377. Melon Mousse. — ^Slightly cook 2 cups of ripe canta- 
loupe or muskmelon with 3^ cup sugar and press it through a 
sieve. Add 1 tbsp. gelatine softened in a very little cold water or 
melon juice and dissolve over hot water, beat until cold, and add 
to 2 cups of whipped cream. Add dash salt, turn into mould, 
pack, and freeze. Serve in halves of very cold melon. 

1378. Orange Mousse. — Add juice of 6 oranges and 1 
lemon to 1 cup sugar sirup, add dash salt, 1 tbsp. gelatine dis- 
solved in a little of the juice, J^ cup minced pecans, and IJ^ cups 
whipped cream. This is very pretty if the gelatine and orange 
mixture is put in mould first, and then fill with the cream slightly 
sweetened and the nuts, to which a little candied and chopped 
fruit may be added. 

1379. Peach or Apricot Mousse. — Add 2 cups peach or 
apricot pulp to }/2 cup sugar sirup, in which 1 tbsp. softened gela- 
tine has been dissolved, cool, beat, and add 2 cups whipped 
cream, and 3^ cup minced almonds, 1 teasp. lemon juice, and J^ 
teasp. bitter-almond extract. Turn into a mould, pack, and 
freeze. Serve dusted with powdered macaroons. 

1380. Pineapple Mousse. — Scald 1 cup of minced pine- 
apple with the juice and sugar to taste, add 1 tbsp. gelatine 
softened in J^ cup of the juice, beat until cold, add 1 tbsp. lemon 
juice, a dash salt, and 2 cups whipped cream. Fill mould lined 
with wine or orange jelly and garnished with candied cherries. 

1381. Red Raspberry Mousse. — Mash 1 quart of berries 
and scald with }/^ cup sugar and 1 tbsp. gelatine softened in a 
little cold water, beat until cold, add 1 banana cut in thin slices 
or dice and 2 cups whipped cream. Fill moulds, pack, and '^erve 
with whipped and sweetened cream flavored with sherry or 
Maraschino. This is very pretty if turned into empty egg shells, 
packed, and frozen, and served as an Easter dessert in a nest of 
spun sugar. 

1382. Strawberry Mousse. — Add 1 tbsp. softened g«rla- 
tine to 1 cup hot sugar sirup, cool and add 2 cups mashed straw* 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES. AND FRAPPES 293 

oerries with the juice, beat, and when cold add 2 cups of whipped 
cream, turn into mould, and pack in ice and salt. Serve sur- 
rounded with Chantilly Cream (1453). 



Muscovites 
Frozen without Stirring 

Muscovites are composed of sugar sirup, fruit, and fruit 
juice, a little thin cream, gelatine beaten with egg beater, and 
one or more beaten egg whites. 

1383. Bar-le-Duc Muscovite. — Heat 1 small jar of im- 
ported bar-le-duc with J^ cup sugar sirup and 2 tbsps. gela- 
tine softened in 1 cup water. When dissolved take from fire 
and beat until cold and quite frothy. Add 2 tbsps. brandy or 
rum, the beaten whites of 3 eggs, and J^ cup whipped cream. 
Turn into a glass ice-cream cylinder, pack in ice and salt, and 
let stand 3 hours. Turn out and cut in slices, and serve with 
Rich Boiled Custard or with whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored. 

1384. Melon Muscovite. — ^Heat 2 cups melon pulp with 
l^ cup sugar sirup, add 2 tbsps. gelatine softened in ^ cup 
water, when dissolved beat until cold, add J^ cup Maraschino 
cherries cut in dice, J^ cup of the liquor, a dash of salt, J^ cup 
whipped cream, and 3 egg whites beaten very stiff. Mould or 
turn onto cylinder of freezer, pack in ice and salt, and let stand 3 
hours. Serve in champagne glasses covered with Italian Me- 
ringue (1454) flavored with both vanilla and sherry. 

1385. Peach, Pineapple, or Strawberry Muscovite. 

— Follow above recipe for melon, using peaches, pineapple, or 
strawberries instead of the melon, omit rum and cherries, add 
a very little lemon juice, and flavor the meringue to harmonize 
with the fruit. 



294 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Parfaits 
Frozen without Stirring 

Parfaits are composed of sugar sirup, flavoring, egg yolks 
or wliites, and whipped cream, and may be turned into moulds 
and frozen in forms, or in the freezer cylinder, and served in 
tall stemmed glasses. If in glasses the top is usually covered 
with whipped cream or Italian Meringue and served with a 
long-handled spoon. 

1386- Almond Parfait. — Blanch and shred J^ lb. almonds. 
Cook 1 cup sugar in 3^ cup water until it spins a thread, add 
slowly to 4 beaten egg whites, add almonds, a dash salt, and 
beat until cool. Add 2 cups whipped cream, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 
}/2 teasp. almond extract, and turn into a mould. Serve with 
fresh or canned peaches and cake. 

1387' Almond and Cherry Parfait. — Add 1 cup sugar 
sirup to 5 beaten yolks, cook a moment, take from fire, and 
beat until cold. Add 2 cups whipped cream, dash salt, 1 teasp. 
vanilla, 1 teasp. almond extract. Put in mould in alternate 
layers with ground almonds and diced Maraschino cherries. 
Pack and freeze. Serve with sauce made of the cherry liquor (a 
10-cent bottle), heat, and add 2 tbsps. rum, 1 teasp. arrow-root in 
}/2 cup water, and the beaten white of 1 egg. 

1388. Cafe Parfait. — Cook 1 cup of clear, strong coffee 
with ^ cup sugar until it will spin a thread, pour slowly onto 3 or 
4 well-beaten yolks, add dash salt, and beat until cold. Add 2 
cups whipped cream, pack in ice-cream cylinder, and freeze, 
when ready to serve, fill tall stemmed glasses, cover with whipped 
and sweetened cream, and placei a Maraschino cherry in centre 
or dust cream with powdered chocolate. 

1389. Cafe Parfait, Vienna Style.— Add to Cafe Parfait 
1 cup of pounded caramel candy, turn into a mould lined with 
Red Raspberry Ice, or serve the parfait with red-raspberry jelly 
cut in dice. Another way : fill glasses with the parfait, pour red- 
raspberry sauce or Grenadine over it, and surmount with whipped 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES. AND FRAPPES 295 

cream. To make caramel candy, cook 1 cup sugar until a light 
brown, add a few drops of hot water, and pour in a greased 
platter; when cold break it and pound it quite fine. 

1390. Caramel Parfait. — Cook % cup sugar until brown, 
add ]4: cup of boiling water, cook until thick, and pour slowly into 
1 well-beaten egg yolks, add dash salt, and turn into a double 
boiler, add 1 cup thin cream and 1 teasp. butter, and cook until 
hot; remove from fire, beat until cold, and add 2 cups whipped 
cream and a little powdered sugar if not quite sweet enough 
to suit taste. Pack in mould in ice and salt. Minced nuts or 
powdered macaroons may be added just before freezing. 

1391. Fig Parfait. — ^Put in tall parfait glasses alternate 
layers of French Ice-cream and fresh or stewed figs, pour 1 tbsp. 
Maraschino mixed with 1 teasp. Benedictine in each glass, and 
pipe a rose of pink-tinted whipped cream on top. 

1392. Chocolate Parfait. — ^Cook 1 cup sugar with J^ cup 
water until boiling, pour slowly into 4 well-beaten eggs, add dash 
salt and turn into double boiler, add 3 tbsps. grated chocolate, 
1 cup thin cream, 1 teasp. butter, and when boiling remove from 
fire, beat until cold, add \]/2, cups whipped cream. Turn into a 
mould and pack in ice and salt, and serve with Orange Tunisian 
(1808) or Brandied Peach halves. 

1393. Golden Parfait. — Boil 1 cup sugar with J^ cup 
water until it nearly spins a thread, pour slowly onto 5 well- 
beaten egg yolks, return to double boiler, add dash salt, and 
cook until spoon is coated, remove from fire, beat until cold, 
add 2 cups whipped cream and 1 tbsp. vanilla. ■ A little sherry 
or brandy may be added if liked. Pack in mould and serve 
with any canned or preserved fruit or brandied fruit. 

1394. Maple Parfait. — Follow recipe for Golden Parfait, 
using hot maple sirup instead of sugar and water, and do not add 
flavoring. Nuts or powdered macaroons may be added just be- 
fore freezing, or the parfait may be moulded, and when serving 
cover it with browned and minced almonds. 

1395. Marron Parfait. — Follow recipe for Golden Parfait, 
using the sirup from a jar of Chestnuts Preserved' (1801). Re7 
serve all the large pieces of the chestnuts, mash the remainder, 
and add to the parfait. Mould and serve with the remainder of 



296 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

the chestnuts as a garnish with Maraschino cherries, or serve 
the parfait in glasses garnished with whipped cream and the 
chestnuts. 

1396. Marshmallow Parfait with Cherries. — Cook ^ 
cup sugar with 1 cup milk and add 1 teasp. arrow-root softened 
in 2 tbsps. cold milk, add 1 teasp. butter, pour this over 2 well- 
beaten yolks and beat until cold. Add IJ^ cups whipped cream, 
1 cup marshmallows cut in dice and slightly softened over hot 
water, and the egg whites beaten very stiff. Flavor with 1 teasp. 
vanilla and }/^ teasp. almond, mould, and freeze. Serve covered 
with a sauce made from 3^ can or 1 cup of cherries. Drain cher- 
ries and soak them in Maraschino or sherry. Heat sauce and 
thicken slightly with arrow-root, add cherries, and serve warm. 

1397. Mocha Caramel Parfait. — Brown 1 cup sugar, add 
3^ cup of very strong coffee, and when cool turn into a jar. When 
ready to make parfait, put 6 yolks in a bowl, beat until thick, and 
pour on in a thread, beating all the time 1 cup granulated sugar 
cooked until it nearly spins a thread with J^ cup water, add the 
coffee caramel, and beat until cold. Add 2 cups of cream, whipped, 
and turn into a very cold mould packed in ice and salt. Turn 
out, surround with brandy peaches drained, add 3^ cup of the 
brandy sirup to 1 cup of red-raspberry sirup, and pour over the 
peaches. 

1398. Peach Parfait. — ^Follow recipe for Almond Parfait, 
adding 1 cup of peach pulp, serve in glasses with 1 tbsp. of red- 
raspberry sirup poured in each glass. Cover with whipped cream 
flavored with Maraschino, and place J/^ of a ripe peach in the 
cream. 

1399. Pistachio Parfait. — ^Follow recipe for Almond Par- 
fait, omit almonds, and flavor with y^ cup orange juice and a few 
drops of almond and vanilla extract. Add just before packing 
}/2 cup blanched and minced pistachio nuts and serve in glasses 
with more of the nuts dusted on whipped cream over the top. 

1400. White Parfait with Hot Chocolate Sauce.— 

Cook 3^ cup sugar with 3^ cup water, pour slowly into !^ egg 
whites beaten* very stiff, add a dash salt, 1 tbsp. vanilla, and 2 
cups whipped cream. Pack and freeze and serve with 1 tbsp. 
of Hot Chocolate Sauce poured over each serving. 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES. AND FRAPPES 297 

Puddings Glacg 
Frozen without Stirring 

Frozen puddings are parfaits to which are added gelatine, 
mixed fruits, macaroons, etc. They are frozen in moulds. 

1401. Cabinet Chocolate Pudding, Glace. — Thor- 
oughly chill the mould. Cook 1 cup milk with J^ cup sugar and a 
split vanilla bean, add 2 tbsps. gelatine softened in J^ cup milk, 
pour onto 3 well-beaten yolks, return to fire a moment, add 1 
teasp. butter, 2 squares melted chocolate, take from fire, beat 
until cold. Add 1 cup whipped cream and 1 teasp. vanilla. Soak 
6 small slices of sponge cake in sherry and also 1 cup of candied 
fruit and }/2 cup each figs cut in bits and seeded raisins which have 
been cooked in J^ cup each of sugar and water. Put a layer of 
custard in mould, then of fruit and the sponge cake, another 
layer of custard, and again the fruit until mould is full. Cover 
well with wax paper, put on cover, bind with cloth dipped in 
melted lard or suet, pack in ice and salt for 4 hours. Serve on 
very cold dish with sweetened and slightly browned meringue 
around it. The meringue may be put on a tin in spoonfuls, 
browned, and slipped off and around the pudding. 

1402. Fruit and Cocoanut Pudding Glace. — Cook 1 
cup milk with 3^ cup sugar, 2 inches of split vanilla bean, a few 
pieces of lemon peel, an inch-stick cinnamon, 2 whole cloves, and 
a dash of salt. Add 2 tbsps. gelatine softened in }^ cup milk and 
pour onto 4 well-beaten yolks, return to boiler, and cook until 
spoon is coated, strain, and beat until cold. Flavor with 1 tbsp. 
brandy or Benedictine cordial, or Noyaux and place on ice until 
very cold and nearly set. Add 1 cup whipped cream, 1 cup can- 
died fruits soaked in sherry or brandy, and 1 cup of grated fresh 
cocoanut. Pack in ice and salt and serve surrounded with Spun 
Sugar (1458). 

1403. Marshmallow and Nut Pudding Glace. — 

Follow recipe for Cabinet Pudding Glace, omit fruit and cake, and 
add 1 cup marshmaJlows cut in small pieces and softened over hot 
water, J^ cup each blanched almonds and pecans. Pack and 
freeze, and serve with whipped cream sweetened and dusted with 



298 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

minced pistachio nuts, or serve surrounded with pineapple dice 
and juice. 

1404. Nesselrode Pudding Glace. — To the recipe for 
Golden Parf ait add 1 tbsp. granulated gelatine soaked in a little 
milk, 1 cup preserved chestnuts cut in tiny dice, J^ cup each 
sultana raisins, candied cherries, and pineapple soaked in sherry, 
1 teasp. vanilla, 3^ teasp. almond extract, and 1 tbsp. of yellow 
Chartreuse or Maraschino. Turn into a mould, pack and freeze., 
and serve with Rum Sauce (1445). 

1405. Peach or Pineapple Pudding Glace. — Beat 3 
yolks very light, add 2 tbsps. gelatine softened in 3^ cup of water 
and dissolved in ^ cup sugar sirup, add 2 cups drained and 
chopped pineapple or peach pulp, beat until cool, and if pine- 
apple be used add 1 tbsp. lemon juice, and 2 cups whipped cream. 
Fold in the egg whites, pack, and freeze. A cup of boiled rice may 
be added to this with 1 tbsp. less of the gelatine. 

1406. Plum Pudding Glace. — Make Golden Parf ait 
with half of the amount of sugar and 1 tbsp. gelatine. Place 
in a mould a layer of fruit cake, sprinkle it well with brandy, 
cover with a layer of the parf ait, then add a layer of sponge cake 
broken in bits and sprinkled with sherry, then a layer of any 
candied fruit, and fill with the parfait. Pack and serve \7ith 
Fruit Juice Sauce (1451). 



Souffles Glaces 
Frozen without Stirring 

Souffles are composed of sugar sirup, fruit puree or flavor- 
ing, whipped cream, gelatine, and eggs. These are moulded 
in open dishes, either large or small, or in ramekins, and placed 
in ice cave or in a deep pail. A strip of buttered paper is put 
around edge, extending an inch or two above dish. The mixt- 
ure fills the dish, and when serving, paper is removed and 
the souffl6 is served in the dish. Souffles are not quite as 
liard frozen as other creams. 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES, AND FRAPPES 299 

1407. Chocolate Souffle en Surprise. — Melt 3 squares 
of chocolate in 1 cup milk, add 1 tbsp. gelatine softened in 3^ cup 
milk, and pour onto 3 well-beaten yolks with ^ cup sugar. Re- 
turn to fire and cook until spoon is slightly covered, take from 
fire, and beat until cold. Add 1 cup whipped cream, 1 tbsp. each 
vanilla and brandy, and the stiffly beaten whites of 4 eggs. Turn 
into the dish in which it is to be served (a casserole is suitable, 
one that sets in a silver or nickel standard), within an inch of the 
top. Place in a deep pail or ice cave, surround pail with ice and 
salt, cover, and let stand 3 hours. Take from pail, cover with 
slices of pineapple, and fill all spaces with Maraschino cherries, 
cover with a macaroon or sponge-cake meringue, place dish in 
pan of very cold water on a board, and put in hot oven until 
meringue is slightly colored. Make the meringue of 3 well- 
beaten whites mixed with 2 tbsps. granulated sugar and 2 tbsps. 
of dried and powdered macaroon crumbs. 

1408' Coffee Souffle Glace. — Simmer 15 minutes 1 cup 
milk and J^ cup finely ground coffee tied in cheese-cloth, strain 
onto 3 well-beaten yolks mixed with ^ cup sugar, return to 
boiler and add 1 tbsp. gelatine softened in a little water, cook 
untU spoon is coated, remove from fire, beat until cold, adding 
a dash of salt, add 1 cup whipped cream and the beaten whites. 
Fill small paper cases, sprinkle with ground chocolate or pow- 
dered macaroon crumbs, and pack in a pail in ice and salt. When 
serving cover with whipped cream. 

1409. Orange Souffle Glace. — Cook 1 cup water with 
}/2 cup sugar, juice and pulp of 2 oranges and grated rind of 1, 
and pour over 4 egg yolks well beaten. Return to fire with 1 
tbsp. softened gelatine and cook until spoon is coated. Strain, 
add dash salt, beat until cold, add the beaten whites, turn into 
small paper ramekins, pack, and freeze. When serving cover 
with small pieces of pineapple or Orange Tunisian (1808) and 
then with sweetened whipped cream. 

1410. Vanilla or Strawberry Souffle Glace.— Follow 
recipe for Coffee Souffle Glace, using 1 split vanilla bean instead 
of coffee, or follow recipe for Orange Souffle Glace, using straw- 
berry pulp and juice instead of the oranges. Any fruit or flavor 
may be used for these souffles. 



300 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



ICES 

Ices include all water ices, sherbets, and frapp6s, and are 
composed of sugar-and-water sirups with a little gelatine, 
flavoring or fruit juice and pulp, and whites of eggs. A few 
sherbets and frapp6s contain a little cream. Ices are frozen 
very hard, in forms or moulds; sherbets not quite so hard, and 
are served in sherbet glasses, to which is added 1 or 2 teasps. 
of liqueur, cordial, wine, or flavoring; and frappes are frozen 
quite soft, and are served from a large punch bowl into small 
glasses. Sherbets, or sorbets, as they are often called, used 
to be served after the roast or game course, but on account 
of the popularity of the short menu they are rarely served 
now except at large dinners and banquets, when the menu 
is long and heavy. 

1411. Water Ice, Method. — Boil 2 cups of water with 
5^ cup sugar, add 1 teasp. granulated gelatine and fruit juices or 
flavoring, strain, cool, and add 3 well-beaten egg whites. 

1412. Lemon or Orange Ice. — Add to Water Ice juice 
of 3 lemons or of 1 lemon and 2 oranges. To add flavor, cook a 
little of the outside peel of oranges and lemon with the sirup. 

1413. Fruit Ices. — Add to Water Ice from 1 to 2 cups of 
any fruit juice or pulp and the juice of 1 lemon. More sugar wifl 
be required for acid fruits. Mash fruit, add to the sirup when 
nearly cool, and let stand an hour before freezing. The fruits 
that may be used are apricots, bananas, blueberries, currants, 
peaches, pineapple, red raspberries, cherries, grapes, grape-fruit, 
gooseberries, and strawberries. If fruit is very juicy and a 
strong flavored ice required, use less water and more of the fruit 
and juice. 

Sherbets 

1414. Brandy and Sherry.— Add to Lemon Ice 1 teasp, 
each of brandy and sherry to each glass. 



FROZEN CREAMS. ICES. AND FRAPPES 301 

1415. Cardinal Sherbet.— Add to Red Raspberry Ice 1 
teasp. each Maraschino and cura?oa to each glass. 

1416. Champagne Sherbet. — Add before freezing 3^ pt. 
champagne to Orange Ice. 

1417. Claret Sherbet.— Make Lemon Ice with half the 
amount of water and 1 cup of claret. Add strawberries when 
serving. 

1418. Coffee Sherbet. — ^Make Water Ice with strong 
coffee instead of water, add ]/2 cup cream, and when serving 
add 1 tbsp. brandy to each glass. 

1419. Cider Sherbet. — Make Water Ice with cider in- 
stead of water, add lemon juice and orange juice and serve 
covered with Italian Meringue (1454). 

1420. Grape-Fruit Sherbet. — Follow recipe for Fruit 
Sherbets, adding J^ cup rum while freezing, or pour rum in glasses 
when serving. 

1421. Creme de Menthe Sherbet. — Color Lemon Ice a 
pale green and when serving pour in each glass 1 teasp. green 
CrSme de Menthe and 3^ teasp. Jamaica rum. 

1422. Cr6me Yvette (Violet) Sherbet.— Add 4 tbsps. 
CrSme Yvette cordial to Lemon Ice before freezing, serve in 
glasses, adding 2 or 3 fresh violets to each glass. 

1423. Ginger Sherbet. — ^Fill glasses with Lemon Ice and 
add 1 tbsp. preserved ginger cut in small pieces to each glass. 

1424. Lalla Rookh Sherbet.— Make Orange Ice with half 
the amount of water, orange, and lemon juice, add 1 cup 
whipped cream and 3^ cup Jamaica rum. 

1425. Mandarin Orange Sherbet. — ^Make Orange Ice, 
using juice and pulp of mandarin oranges, fill the mandarin cups, 
place them in a pan of chopped ice, cover with meringue, and 
quickly brown in hot oven. Serve at once. 

1426. Maraschino Cherry Sherbet. — Add liquor from 1 
small bottle of Maraschino cherries to Orange Ice before freez- 
ing, and when serving garnish with the cherries. 



302 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1427. Mint Sherbet. — Crush 1 bunch mint and soak it in 
3^ cup brandy 1 hour. Add to Lemon Ice colored green. 

1428. Orange Sherbet (Hotel As tor). — Fill glasses with 
Orange Ice, scoop out centres, and fill with rum sirup mixed with 
a little Orange cura9oa. 

1429. Melon Sherbet. — Fill muskmelon halves with 
Lemon Ice colored pale green and garnish with angelica soaked 
in sherry. 

1430. Port Wine Sherbet. — Add to Lemon Ice before 
freezing 1 cup of port wine in which 3^ cup raisins and a stick 
of cinnamon have been soaked, color red, and freeze. 

1431. Roman Sherbet. — Add J^ cup rum to Lemon Ice 
when half -frozen. This may be garnished with candied or fresh 
rose petals. 

1432. Raspberry Sherbet with Cream. — Make fruit 
ice with red raspberries, strain, and freeze. Serve with cream 
poured over each glass. 

1433. Watermelon Sherbet. — ^Make fruit ice with 
watermelon pulp and less water, add a httle champagne or 
sauterne, and serve in cantaloupe halves. 

FRAPPES 

1434. Cafe Frappe. — ^To 1 quart of strong, clear hot coffee 
add 1 cup of sugar and 1 cup cream, freeze rather soft, turn into 
bowl, sprinkle with a few drops of brandy, and serve in glasses. 
Or it may be frozen without cream and the cream may be 
added to glasses when serving. 

1435. Chocolate Frappe.— Make Hot Chocolate (1645), 
add 34 cup powdered sugar, freeze, and serve with cream in 
glasses. 

1436. Fruit or Orange Frappe. — These are half-frozen 
fruit or Orange Ices to which 3^ cup rum or sherry is added 
before freezing. 

1437. Tea Frappe. — Add to Orange Ice 1 cup pineapple 
with juice, using tea infusion instead of water. To 1 pt. of boil- 
ing water add 4 teasps. of English Breakfast mixed with Orange 
Pekoe. 



SAUCES FOR ICE-CREAM AND ICES 303 

SAUCES FOR ICE-CREAM AND ICES 

Cold Sauces 

1438' Claret or Sauterne Sauce. — Boil 1 cup sugar 
with 3^ cup water 2 minutes, cool, and add 1 cup claret or 
sauterne. 

1439. Coffee Cream Sauce. — Add to 3 well-beaten yolks 
a dash of salt, 4 tbsps. sugar, and 1 cup of very strong coffee, 
cook until spoon coats, remove from fire, cool, and add J^ cup 
whipped cream. 

1440. Brandy or Sherry Sauce. — Add to 3 beaten yolks 
a grating of nutmeg and J^ cup sugar, cook in double boiler until 
it begins to thicken, remove from fire, beat until cold, and add 
J^ cup brandy or sherry or half of each, and J^ cup whipped 
cream. 

1441. Brandy Sauce Frozen. — Add to 2 cups of cream 
3^ cup sugar, 1 tbsp. each vanilla and lemon juice, a little salt, 
and J^ cup brandy. Freeze rather soft and serve with Hot Plum 
Pudding. 

1442. Maraschino Sauce. — ^Whip 1 cup cream, add J^ 
cup Maraschino and 1 tbsp. lemon juice, fill with candied fruit 
cut in dice. 

1443. Marshmallow Sauce. — Soften J^ lb. marsh- 
mallows in double boiler, add J^ cup XXXX confectioner's 
sugar dissolved in 2 tbsps. each water and orange juice (a blood 
orange if possible), add dash salt. 

1444. Red Raspberry Sauce. — Cook 1 cup sugar with J^ 
cup water, add 1 box red raspberries mashed through colander, 
and cool, or pour into hot cans, seal, and keep for winter use. 

1445. Rum Sauce.— Boil 1 cup sugar with J^ cup water 
and pour onto 2 beaten yolks, beating constantly; return to fire 
until spoon coats, add stiffly beaten whites, cool, add 1 tbsp. 
Orange Curapoa or orange juice and J^ cup Jamaica rum. For 
a creamy sauce add }/2 cup whipped cream. 



304 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 



Hot Sauces 

1446. Caramel Nut Sauce. — Cook 1 cup sugar until 
brown, add J^ cup boiling water, take from fire and add 1 cup 
broken pecans. 

1447- Coffee Sauce. — Cook 1 cup sugar with ]/^ cup very 
strong cofFee until it spins, pour over ice-cream and it will candy. 
Or scald Ij^ cups milk with J^ cup ground coffee, let stand an 
hour, strain and heat, add }/^ cup sugar mixed with 2 teasps. 
arrow-root, cook until it begins to thicken, add 1 teasp. butter, 
and serve. 

1448. Chocolate Sauce. — Cook 1 cup water with J^ cup 
sugar and a small piece of cinnamon stick, add 2 teasps. arrow- 
root softened in a little cold water, and 4 tbsps. chocolate melted 
in 34 cup hot water, cook 5 minutes, add 1 teasp. butter and 1 of 
vanilla. 

1449. Fudge Sauce. — Cook, until it begins to crinkle 
around edges, 1 cup each brown sugar, white sugar, and milk, 
add 2 squares chocolate grated and 1 tbsp. butter, and serve at 
once. 

1450. Mocha Caramel Sauce. — To 1 cup scalded milk 
add 3^ cup caramel made with coffee and a dash salt, poiir over 
2 yolks well beaten, cook for a moment, remove from fire, and 
add 3^ cup whipped cream. 

1451. Fruit Sauce. — Cook 1 cup water with J^ cup sugar, 
add 1 cup fruit juice or 3^ cup currant jelly, fiavor with Mara- 
schino. 

1452. Orange Sauce. — Cook ^ cup orange juice with 34 
cup lemon juice and 34 cup sugar and pour over cream. 



ACCESSORIES TO DESSERTS AND ICE-CREAMS 

1453. Chantilly Cream. — ^Whip 1 cup cream very stiff, 
flavor with any of the extracts or cordials or fruit juice, coffee, 
chocolate, etc., and sweeten with 4 tbsps. powdered sugar. 



ACCESSORIES TO DESSERTS 305 

1454. Italian Meringue. — Cook 1 cup sugar in J^ cup 
water until it spins a short thread, pour constantly and slowly 
on 3 stiffly beaten egg whites, beating constantly, and when 
riool add 3^ cup whipped cream and flavoring. 

1455. Meringue Cases. — Beat 4 large egg whites with a 
pinch of salt and of cream tartar until very stiff, add 1 cup fine 
granulated sugar quickly, add 1 teasp. vanilla sugar, and press 
mixture through pastry bag in small ovals onto a warm tin sheet 
rubbed with white wax. Dust with powdered sugar and place 
in a very cool oven for 2 hours. If oven is hot, put in a pan of 
cold water and leave door partly open. Take from oven, remove 
centres with a warm teaspoon, and put back in oven until crisp. 
These may be dusted with colored sugar before baking or tinted 
with a fine brush and diluted coloring liquid after baking. They 
may be filled with ice-cream or Chantilly Cream put together by 
dipping edges with white of egg, or serve one to each person with 
a spoonful of cream or ice-cream. 

1456. Nougat Baskets or Cups. — To be filled with ice- 
cream or Cream Chantilly or Italian Meringue. Cook 1 cup 
granulated sugar with 2 tbsps. strained lemon juice until golden, 
add 13^ cups shredded almonds, stir for a moment, then turn 
out on a well-oiled marble and work it with a spatula. While 
warm line well-oiled tin moulds or cups with the nougat. 
Loosen before it is cold and press it in again and cut edges. Use 
a whole lemon instead of fingers to press and form the nougat. A 
handle may be put on nougat basket by sticking it on with a 
little boiled sugar. Pipe a Royal Icing around edge, dust with 
minced pistachio nuts or put silver dragees on every other point 
of the frosting. Fill with the cream and set orange quarters, 
which have been dipped in boiled sugar and dragged across the 
marble, making long points of the sugar. They will look like 
tiny ships. Put 1 in the centre of each basket or on each side 
of the handle and a glaced fruit in centre. If Chantilly Cream 
be used, draw a fork dipped in red coloring liquid through it. 

1457. Red Sugar. — Add red coloring liquid to fine gran- 
ulated sugar, spread on a plate to dry. Rub through sieve. 

1458. Spun Sugar. — Cook 1 cup granulated sugar with }4 
cup water and J^ teasp. cream tartar until it spins a long thread. 
Place sauce pan in cold water for a moment and then in hot water 



306 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

to keep the sirup the right temperature. Have small, round 
wooden sticks well oiled. The cook stands on a chair close to 
fire and, with stick held high in left hand, dips a sugar-spinner 
or fork into the hot sirup and then back and forth quickly over 
the stick. The sugar thus spun may be moulded into wreaths 
or nests while warm. Spinning the sugar high over the stove 
keeps it warm while spinning. 




METHODS OF MAKING CAKES 



Sift flour before measuring, and sift several times after 
adding baking-powder and salt. Cream butter, and use fine 
granulated sugar, unless otherwise specified in recipe. Warm 
sugar and bowl if necessary, but never warm butter. Use 
pastry flour for all cakes unless bread flour is mentioned in 
recipe. Any good shortening may be used instead of butter, 
and water in the place of milk. Water makes a tender cake, 
but less rich. 

Cream butter, add sugar, and cream again, add yolks or 
whole eggs well beaten, then flavoring, add liquid, and flour 
sifted with baking-powder a little at a time alternately, beat 
well with hght high strokes but do not stir, fold in egg whites 
beaten stiff, using but few strokes, turn into pans greased 
with clarified butter or unsalted shortening; if for layer 
or small cakes, dust pan also with flour, turn pan upside 
down, and knock out all excess of flour. Line greased pan 
with thin paper, and grease it for all loaf cakes made with 
butter. For sponge cakes use pan that has never been 
greased, or rub with soft paper dipped in clarified butter, 
wipe with more soft paper, and dust lightly with flour, or put 
thin paper in bottom of pan lightly greased. Temperature 
of oven for baking should be: 

Small cakes or thin cakes, moderately hot. 

307 



308 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Small loaf cakes, moderate. 

Large and rich loaf cakes, slow. 

Sponge cakes, very, very slow. 

Fruit cakes, slow, and long baking. 

Add fruit to cakes dredged with a little of the flour just 
before turning into tin for large cakes, and after putting a 
layer of plain mijcture in pan. 

Insert all cakes on wire racks to cool. Put cold frosting on 
warm cakes, and warm frosting on cold cakes. 

Keep cakes in tin box, and cookies and fried cakes in stone 
jar, covered. 

Layer Cakes 

For ordinary layer cake use any of the following recipes. 

1459 • Layer Cake Plain. — ]/i cup butter, 1 scant cup 
sugar, 2 yolks, ^ cup flour, and J^ cup water. Beat well, add 
1 cup flour, 2 teasps. baking-powder, flavoring, and beaten 
whites. Bake in round shallow tins in thin layers 15 minutes. 

1460- Layer Cake Rich. — Cream 3^ cup butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 4 yolks, ^ cup flour, 3^ cup rich milk — or use water and 
a little more shortening, beat, and add 1 cup flour, 2 teasps. 
baking-powder, flavoring, salt, and the stiffly beaten whites. 

1461. Layer Cake Golden. — Follow either of the above 
recipes, using the yolks only of 5 eggs and 3 teasps. baking- 
powder. 

1462. Layer Cake White. — Follow recipe for Layer Cake 
Rich, using IJ^ cups flour and ]/^ cup cornstarch and the whites 
of 5 or 6 eggs. 

In making caramel cake use thin caramel instead of milk 
in the above recipes. In making chocolate cake add 2 or 3 
squares melted chocolate and 3^ teasp. soda. In making cocoa- 
nut cake use the milk from cocoanut instead of milk in above 
recipes. 



CAKES 309 

Some Especial Layer Cakes 

1463- Apple Sauce Cake. — Stew enough unpeeled, cored 
apples with a Uttle water to make 2 cups. Cream 3^ cup butter, 
add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup of sauce, 2 beaten yolks, 1 teasp. cinna- 
mon, 3^ teasp. cloves, and a grating of nutmeg. Add 2 cups 
flour, 1 teasp. baking-powder, J^ teasp. soda, and beaten white of 
1 egg. Bake in 2 layers in moderate oven, and fill and cover 
with the following: Make Boiled Frosting (1610) flavored with 
lemon juice. Cover lower layer with the remaining cup of 
apple sauce, mixed with 3^ cup chopped pineapple or dates, 
spread on the frosting, put on top layer, and cover it with the 
frosting. 

1464. Caramel Cake. — Make Layer Cake (1460), using 
for liquid thin caramel and use only egg whites. Fill with any of 
the caramel fillings. 

1465. Chocolate Cake with Hazel Nuts. — Beat 6 egg 
yolks 3^ hour with 1 cup sugar, add 5 squares of melted choco- 
late, slightly cooled, 3^ cup fine, dry bread crumbs, }4 lb. hazel- 
nut or filbert meats ground fine, 34 teasp. salt, and the egg whites 
beaten very stiff. Bake in 2 layers, cover lower layer with red- 
raspberry jelly made with the fruit juice and gelatine, spread 
top layer with confectioner's sugar frosting, and glaze with 
Chocolate Glaze (1633). 

1466. Chocolate Layer Cake with Jelly. — To Layer 
Cake (1459) add with the egg yolks, when cool, 3 squares choco- 
late boiled with 34 cup sugar and % cup thin milk, and add 3^ 
teasp. soda to flour. While cake is warm spread each layer 
with coffee, currant or red-raspberry jelly, or jelly from orange 
marmalade, and fill with the following filling and cover with 
Boiled Frosting. Cook 3^ cup grated chocolate with same of 
sugar and 1 teasp. flour dissolved in }/s cup milk until thick, 
add to 1 well-beaten egg yolk, and beat until cool. 

1467. Chocolate Layer Cake with Mocha Filling. 

— Beat 4 eggs very hght, add 134 cups sugar, beat and add 2 
tbsps. melted butter, 3 squares melted chocolate, 3^ cup tepid 
water, 1 teasp. vanilla, and tiny pinch salt, add 13^ cups flour, 1^ 
teasps. baking-powder, and }i teasp. soda. Bake in 2 layers, fill 
and cover with Mocha Filling (1602). 



310 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1468. Chocolate Layer Cake with Raisin and Nut 
Filling. — Cook and cool 3^ cup milk, ^ cup brown sugar, 3 
squares melted chocolate, and 1 small beaten egg. Cream J^ 
cup butter, add 54 cup sugar, 2 yolks, J^ cup milk, 2 cups flour 
and 2 teasps. baking-powder, 1 teasp. vanilla, 2 beaten egg 
whites, and the chocolate mixture. Bake. Add to 3^ of a 
Boiled Frosting 3^ cup each pecans and seeded raisins chopped 
fine, put this between cakes, cover with the remainder of the 
frosting, and garnish with pecans, and candied fruit cut in small 
slices and soaked in rum. 

1469. Crumb Nut Cake, Dutch Style.— Beat 5 yolks 
with % cup powdered sugar J^ an hour, add grated rind of a 
lemon, 4 tbsps. soft bread crumbs, and 1 cup of unblanched al- 
monds or pecans ground fine. Beat well and add 1 teasp. al- 
mond extract and the stifily beaten egg whites. Bake in two 
layers 25 minutes. Fill with the following, and cover with 
Sherry Glaze (1631), and garnish with almonds and candied 
cherries, and angelica or any candied fruits. Wash and cream 
3 tbsps. butter with 3^ cup powdered sugar, add J^ cup each of 
any candied fruit and blanched and shredded almonds or pis- 
tachio nuts, flavor with sherry and vanilla, and add, one at a 
time, 2 well-beaten yolks. 

1470. Orange Cake. — Beat 5 yolks until thick, add 2 cups 
powdered sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 teasps. baking-powder, little 
salt, juice and grated rind of a large orange, 3^ cup water, 3 egg 
whites beaten stiff. Bake and fill with Orange Frosting and 
Filling, and garnish with orange quarters glaced. 

1471. Sponge Layer Cake with Fancy Fillings. — 

This is the best cake in the book and one of the many called 
"Lady Baltimore." Beat 6 yolks until thick, add Ij^ cups 
sugar, 1 teasp. almond extract, IJ^ cups flour, and the whites 
beaten with 3^ teasp. each salt and cream tartar. Bake in a large, 
round tube-pan 40 minutes in slow oven. When cool split into 

3 or 5 layers and fill alternately with the following: 

No. 1. — Melt 2 squares chocolate, add 1 cup milk, 5 cents' 
worth of almond paste, and 4 tbsps. of sugar. When boOing, 
pour over 2 beaten yolks, return to boiler, cook a moment, and 
beat until cool. 

No. 2. — Heat 1 cup milk with 5 cents' worth of almond paste, 

4 tbsps. granulated sugar, 1 cup findy shaved citron, when 



CAKES 311 

boiling pour over 2 beaten yolks, and cook again. Take from 
fire and add 1 cup broken pecans. Cover cake with Boiled 
Frosting flavored with vanilla. The almond paste may be 
bought at the confectioner's. 

1472. Yellow Layer Cake. — This is from Boston Cooking 
School Magazine, and is called " Lord Baltimore Cake. " Cream 
}/2 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, add 8 yolks beaten thick, 1 cup milk, 
1% cups flour, and 4 teasps. baking-powder. Bake in 3 layers. 
Fill and cover with the following: 

To Boiled Frosting add 3^ cup macaroon crumbs, J^ cup 
pecan meats, 3^ cup candied cherries, and 3^ teasp. each 
orange and vanilla extract. 

Cakes in Loaves 

1473. Angel Cake. — Beat 1 cup egg whites with little 
salt very stiff, fold in 1 cup fine granulated sugar sifted twice, 
1 teasp. almond extract, }4 teasp. vanilla, and 1 cup flour sifted 
4 times with 1 teasp. cream tartar. Fill ungreased tube-pan 
and bake 40 minutes. Cool and brush crumbs from bottom and 
sides with a tiny brush, then brush with egg white beaten with 
a little sugar, and cover with frosting. 

1474. Blueberry Cake. — Sift 2 cups flour, 5 teasps. bak- 
ing-powder, 3^ teasp. salt, add 1 cup sugar and 2 beaten yolks 
beaten again with }/i cup milk and 2 tbsps. melted butter. 
Beat well and add 1 tbsp. vanilla and 2 cups berries well dredged 
in flour, the beaten egg whites, turn into a shallow pan, and bake 
3^ an hour in a slow oven. Serve nearly warm. 

1475. Chocolate Loaf Cake. — Melt 2 squares grated 
chocolate with 3^ cup milk. Cook until thick, set aside to cool. 
Cream 4 tbsps. butter, add 1 cup sugar, 2 beaten yolks, 1 teasp. 
vanilla and 1 tbsp. brandy or orange sirup, add the chocolate 
and }4 cup milk, l}4 cups flour, 1 teasp. baking-powder, and 1 
scant teasp. of soda. Beat well and fold in egg whites. Bake in 
a shallow tin, cover with Boiled Frosting, and sprinkle with 
minced and browned almonds. 

1476. Chocolate Marshmallow Cake. — Cream J^ cup 
butter, add 1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 teasps. baking-powder, 3^ 
cup water, 1 tbsp. brandy, and 4 egg whites beaten very stiff. 



312 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

Bake in large, shallow pan. ■ When cold pin strip of wax paper 
around edge, cover J^ inch deep with Marshmallow Filling 
(1601), cool, and cover with 2 squares melted chocolate. 

1477. Chocolate Sour Cream Cake. — Beat 2 yolks, add 
IM cups sugar, J^ cup sour cream, 1 J^ cups bread flour, 2 squares 
melted chocolate, and, mixed with another 3^ cup sour cream, 
3^ teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. vanilla, 1 tbsp. orange juice, and 1 scant 
teasp. of soda dissolved in 2 tbsps. hot water. Add the beaten 
whites and bake in shallow tin. 

1478. Crumb Loaf Cake (German Birthday "Tor- 

te.") — Cream 1 cup butter, add 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup 
powdered sugar beaten with 8 yolks, beat well, add alter- 
natelj* ^ cup water, 2J^ cups flour, 2 teasps. baking-powder, 
J^ cup brandy or orange juice, 1 cup each fine bread crumbs and 
minced almonds unblanched, J^ cup pecans, and, if a dark cake 
is desired, add 3 squares melted and cooled chocolate and 3^ 
teasp. soda dissolved in 2 tbsps. warm water. Flavor with 
almond or vanilla and bake in a large, round tube-pan in moder- 
ate oven. When cold cover with Marshmallow Frosting, and 
when nearly set, mark with a large pin where the ornamental 
piping is to be. Decorate to suit taste. Put a bunch of flowers 
in the centre and place cake on a large, round board having 
candle-holders around edge. Cover base with green vines. 

1479. Date Loaf Cake. — ^Mix J^ lb. stoned dates with 
3^ lb. of pecans, add 1 cup flour, 3 teasps. baking-powder, 34 
teasp. salt, 3^ cup sugar and 2 yolks beaten until thick, add 1 
teasp. vanilla and the whites beaten stiff. Bake in one deep 
loaf pan an hour in slow oven. 

1480. Delicate Cake. — Cream 3^ cup butter, add Ij^ 
cups sugar, 23^ cups flour, 3 teasps. baking-powder, 34 teasp, 
cream tartar, % cup milk or water. Fold in f^ cup egg whites, 
1 teasp. almond extract, 1 tbsp. brandy, and bake in shallow pan 
40 minutes. One cup shredded almonds may be added. 

1481. Orange Cake. — Cream J^ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 
3 beaten yolks, 3^ teasp. salt, grated yellow peel of 1 orange and 
3^ cup juice, 13^ cups flour, IJ^ teasps. baking-powder, add 
beaten egg whites, and bake in a large shallow tin. Cover with 
Orange Confectioner's Frosting, mark in squares, and place a 
candied orange quarter on each. 



CAKES 313 

1482. White Almond Cake, Rich. — Cream 1 cup but- 
ter, add 2 cups sugar, ]^ cup milk, 2}^ cups flour, 2 teasps. bak- 
ing-powder, 1 cup blanched and minced almonds, 1 teasp. Noy- 
aux cordial or almond extract, and 8 egg whites beaten stiff. 
Bake in a shallow pan 40 minutes. 



Fruit Cakes 

1483. Black Fruit Cake. — Cream 2 cups butter, add 2 
cups brown sugar, 5 yolks, J^ cup sour cream, 1 cup each 
chopped and seeded raisins, sultanas, currants, sliced candied 
pineapple, minced almonds and sliced citron dredged with flour, 

4 cups flour, ]/2 teasp. soda, 10 drops oil cinnamon, 8 of nutmeg, 
and 5 of cloves, J^ cup brandy, 2 squares grated chocolate 
melted in 2 tbsps. hot water, and the 5 egg whites beaten stiff. 
Bake an hour or more. This will keep several weeks. 

1484. Coffee Fruit Cake. — Cream 1 cup butter, add 1 
cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup strong, black coffee, 1 cup molasses, 
1 cup raisins, 1 cup sultanas, J^ cup sliced citron, 3^ cup cur- 
rants, }/2 cup chopped nuts, 1 teasp. cinnamon, 3^ teasp. each 
allspice, cloves, and nutmeg, 4 cups flour, 1 teasp. soda. Bake 
45 minutes. Will keep fresh a long time. 

1485. Dundee Cake (English Tea Cake). — ^This is 
the most popular tea cake in London. Cream 1 cup butter, add 

5 drops oil of cinnamon, 2 of cloves, and 3 of nutmeg, add 1 cup 
sugar, cream again, and add 5 well-beaten yolks, the grated peel 
1 lemon and 1 orange, 1 tbsp. vanilla and 34 cup brandy, 1^ 
cups flour, with 1 teasp. baking-powder. Mix and dredge with 
1 cup flour, 3^ cup seeded and chopped raisins, 3^ cup currants, 
}/2 cup shredded almonds, and 1 cup sultana raisins; add beaten 
whites of 4 eggs. Turn into a paper-lined and buttered deep pan 
with rather straight sides, in a layer about an inch thick, add 
fruit to remainder of mixture, fill pan, spread a thick layer of 
blanched almonds over the top, brush with slightly beaten egg, 
dust lightly with salt, and bake in slow oven 45 minutes. 

1486. Raised Fruit Cake, Plain.— Make 2 cups of 
white flour sponge as for bread, using 1 cup hot milk, 1 tbsp. 
sugar, 3^ yeast cake in 3 tbsps. water, and white flour. When 
light add ^ cup butter creamed with 1 cup sugar, 1 teasp. salt, 



314 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

enough flour to make a soft dough, 3^ cup each raisins, currants, 
and sultanas, a few candied cherries, if at hand, 1 cup broken 
pecans or EngUsh walnuts, 5 drops oil of cinnamon, 2 of cloves, 
and 3 of nutmeg, 54 teasp. soda in 4 tbsps. brandy, and 2 eggs 
beaten separately. Let rise until double in bulk and bake in 
slow oven 1^ hours. 

1487. Raised Fruit Cake, Rich (Connecticut Loaf 
Cake). — Cream 2]/2 cups butter, add 5 cups sugar, divide in two 
parts. To one part add 1 yeast cake dissolved in 4 cups warm 
milk and flour to make a stiff batter. Let rise until double in 
bulk (over night), then add 4 beaten egg whites or 2 whole eggs, 
the remainder of butter and sugar, J/^ cup brandy, 1 grated 
nutmeg, 1 teasp. soda, }/2 teasp. salt, and let rise again. Now 
add \]/2 lbs. seeded raisins and J^ lb. citron shaved fine. Put 
in pans and let rise until double again, and bake in slow oven 2 
hours. Cover with Royal Frosting and it will keep. 

1488. Raisin Cake, Cheap. — Cream J^ cup butter, add 
1 cup sugar, 2 yolks, and beat well. Add 2 cups flour, 2 teasps. 
baking-powder, 1 teasp. cinnamon, J^ teasp. each salt and nut- 
meg, and 1 cup milk, add 1 teasp. vanilla and 1 cup sultanas 
dredged with flour, and the stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into 
a large shallow pan and bake 30 minutes. Spread with soft 
butter, dust with granulated sugar and cinnamon, and return 
to oven until a crust is formed. 

1489. Sultana and Raisin Cake. — Cream 1 cup butter, 
add 13^ cups sugar, 5 beaten yolks, 2 teasps. cinnamon, 1 of 
cloves, ]/2 nutmeg, J^ cup brandy, and J/^ lb. sultanas and raisins. 
Beat and add 4 cups flour, 1 teasp. soda, and stiffly beaten whites. 
Bake 45 minutes. Will keep fresh. 

1490. White Fruit Cake.— Cream 1 cup butter, add 1 
cup sugar, cream again, add 2 yolks, 2 cups flour, 1 teasp. bak- 
ing-powder, 1 tbsp. vanilla, J^ teasp. almond extract, 7 egg 
whites beaten stiff. Mix 1 cup freshly grated cocoanut, 1 lb. 
shaved citron, J^ lb. sultanas, 14, lb. candied pineapple, 1 lb. 
blanched and shredded almonds with 1 cup flour, add to cake 
with 6 drops cinnamon oil, 4 of nutmeg, and ]/^ cup brandy. 
Turn into tins well lined with buttered paper, and bake ij^ 
hours. Cover with Royal Frosting and keep in wax paper. 



CAKES 315 



Molasses Cakes and Gingerbreads 

1491- Coffee Gingerbread. — Mix 3^ cup each melted 
butter, molasses, and sugar, add 1 beaten egg, 1 teasp. ginger, 
34 teasp. each cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, and 1 teasp. soda 
dissolved in 3^ cup very strong hot coffee. Beat and add 2 cups 
flour. Bake in shallow pan and cover with thick Boiled Frosting. 

1492- Molasses Cake with Orange Flavoring. — 

Mix }/2 cup melted butter with 1 cup molasses, add 2 beaten 
eggs, 1 teasp. cinnamon, 3^ teasp. ginger, 1 teasp. soda in 3^ cup 
water, and 2]/^ cups flour, add juice and grated rind of 1 orange. 
Bake in shallow pan 30 minutes. Cover with thick Boiled 
Frosting or spread with butter, dust well with sugar, sprinkle 
with cinnamon, and return to oven until well crusted. 

1493. Sour Cream Molasses Cake. — Mix 1 cup sour 
cream with 1 egg, 3^ cup molasses, 13^ cups sugar, 1 teasp. cinna- 
mon, }/2 teasp. each salt and ginger, and 1 teasp. soda dissolved in 

2 tbsps. hot water. Add flour to make a soft batter and bake 
in shallow tin. 

Nut Cakes 

1494. Butternut Cake. — Cream 3^ cup butter, add 2 
cups powdered sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup milk, 23^^ cups flour, 

3 teasps. baking-powder, and 2 cups butternut meats chopped 
rather coarse. 

1495. Pecan or Walnut Cake. — Cream 3^ cup butter, 
add l^ cups sugar, 4 beaten yolks, 1 tbsp. orange extract or 
brandy, 3 cups flour, 3 teasps. baking-powder, 1 cup milk, or 
water, 1 cup chopped nuts, and the egg whites beaten stiff. 

1496. Pecan and Cocoa Cake. — Cream % cup butter, 
add 1 cup sugar, 3 well-beaten yolks, 23^ cups flour, 3 teasps. 
baking-powder, and 1 cup milk. Beat well and add J^ cup of 
cocoa or grated chocolate, 1 cup of broken nut meats slightly 
floured, and the egg whites beaten stiff. Bake in shallow pan 
and when cool cover with the following: Cream 2 tbsps. butter, 
add 1 cup confectioner's sugar, 3^ cup of cocoa in 3^ cup hot, 
thin cream, add dash salt, flavor with vanilla, and beat until 
creamy. 



316 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1497. Pistachio Cake. — Follow recipes for Delicate or 
White Cakes, add 3^ cup minced pistachio nuts, flavor with 1 
teasp. vanilla and J^ teasp. almond extract, and bake in shallow 
pan. Cover with Boiled Icing colored pale green and dust with 
blanched and minced pistachio nuts. 



Plain Cakes 

i 

1498. Quick Cake. — Beat 2 egg yolks well, add ^ cup 
sugar, flavor to suit taste, add alternately 1}/^ cups flour, IJ^ 
teasps. baking-powder, and a generous 3^ cup milk. Beat well 
and add a generous M cup melted butter and the egg whites 
beaten stiff. 

1499. Sour Cream Cake. — Sift 1 cup sugar with 1% 
cups flour, 1 teasp. soda, and 1 of cream tartar, and a little salt. 
Break 2 eggs in a half-pint cup, fill with sour cream, add to the 
flour, beat 15 minutes, flavor, and bake. 

1500. Sweet Cream Cake. — Sift ^ cup sugar with 1^ 
cups flour and 2 teasps. baking-powder and a little salt. Break 
1 egg in a half -pint cup, fill with cream, and beat with flour mixt- 
ure 15 minutes, flavor, and bake. 

1501. White Cake. — Sift 1% cups flour with 2 teasps. 
baking-powder and J^ teasp. salt, add 1 cup sugar. Break 2 egg 
whites in a cup, add 3^ cup soft butter, and fill with water. Turn 
into a bowl, add flour and sugar, and beat 15 minutes. One 
beaten egg white folded in will make this cake more delicate, 
although it is very good without. 

Pound Cakes 

1502. Almond Pound Cake (two loaves). — Cream 2 
cups butter, add 2 cups sugar, 10 beaten yolks, J^ cup brandy, 34 
cup sherry, 1 lb. blanched almonds shredded, and 4 cups flour. 
Bake in slow oven an hour or more. Will keep. 

1503. Pound Cake (one loaf)> — Cream 1 cup butter, add 
13^ cups flour. Beat 1 cup of eggs with \]/^ cups sugar until 
very light and lemon color, add butter and flour mixture, beat 20 
minutes, flavor with 1 tbsp. brandy, 1 teasp. vanilla, and 2 drops 



CAKES 317 

of oil of nutmeg. Bake in bread tin 1 hour. Citron or fruit 
may be added if liked. Will keep. 



Sponge Cakes 

1504. Boiled Sugar Sponge Cake. — Boil 1 cup sugar 
with 3^ cup water until it spins a thread, pour gradually onto 
4 egg whites beaten with a dash of salt, beat until cold, add the 
well-beaten yolks, 3^ teasp. each vanilla and lemon juice, or a 
little grated lemon rind, and 1 cup sifted flour. Bake in small 
tube-pan 50 minutes. 

1505. Chocolate Sponge Cake. — Beat 4 yolks and add 
J^ cup cold water, 1 cup sugar, and IJ^ cups flour sifted with 1 
teasp. baking-powder, add J^ cup cocoa or grated chocolate, 
J/^ teasp. cinnamon, 1 teasp. vanilla, and the stiffly beaten whites. 
Bake 25 minutes and cover with white frosting. 

1506. French Sponge Cake. — Beat 6 yolks very light, 
add 1 cup fine, granulated sugar, grated yellow rind and juice 
of 3^ a lemon or orange, and 1 cup sifted pastry flour; fold in 
whites beaten very stiff, with a pinch of salt, bake in tube-pan 
in slow oven 60 minutes. Dust with powdered sugar when cool 
and break it when serving. 

1507. Hot Milk Sponge Cake. — Beat 2 yolks well, add 
1 cup sugar, 5 drops almond extract, 1 teasp. vanilla, 3^ cup 
warm milk or cream, and 1 cup warm flour with 1 teasp. baking- 
powder and 34 teasp. salt. If milk be used add 1 tbsp. melted 
butter. Beat well and fold in the beaten whites. 

1508. Potato Flour Sponge Cake. — Beat 4 yolks 5 min- 
utes, add 1 cup fine granulated sugar, beat 5 minutes, and add 
3^ cup potato flour sifted with 1 teasp. baking-powder, add 1 
tbsp. of orange juice and grated rind, and fold in the whites 
beaten with 3^ teasp. salt. Bake in tube-pan 50 minutes. Or 
add to the above 2 squares of grated chocolate before adding egg 
whites, flavor with vanilla, and omit orange juice. 

1509. Sunshine Cake. — Sift 1 cup fine granulated sugar 
and % cup flour separately. Beat 5 yolks until thick. Beat 
7 egg whites until light, but not dry, add dash salt and }i teasp. 
cream tartar, and beat very stiff. Stir in sugar Ughtly, then the 



318 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

yolks, then add a lump of sugar which has been rubbed with a 
lemon and dissolved in 1 teasp. each lemon juice and orange 
juice, add flour, turn into tube-pan, and bake in slow oven 50 
minutes. 



Small Cakes, Cookies, and Fancy Cakes 

Cream Puffs anb Eclairs 

1510. Choux Paste for Bonnes Bouches, Cream 
Puffs, etc. — Cook a scant ]/2 cup butter with 1 cup boiling 
water, add 1 cup pastry flour quickly, stirring until mixture 
cleaves from side of pan. Take from fire and add, one at a time, 
beating between each one, 3 large or 4 small eggs. When smooth 
drop from spoon or press through pastry bag on greased and 
floured tin 2 inches apart in round balls for choux or puffs, or 
in long and narrow fingers for eclairs. Bake in slow oven 35 
minutes, reducing heat after 10 minutes. When cold split open 
near top and fill. 

1511. Cream Puffs, Almond Filling. — Add to Boiled 
Frosting made with 1 large egg white, 1 beaten egg, 1 cup each 
powdered sugar and thick cream, and 1 teasp. almond extract 
or Noyaux cordial. Beat until very thick and add 1 cup 
blanched and finely shredded almonds. Make puffs rather 
small, fill, and cover with a glace, and dust with the almonds 
minced and browned, or sprinkle with sifted XXXX sugar. 

1512. Cream PufFs, Coffee, Chocolate, Cream, or 
Maple Filling. — Pour 13^ cups hot milk over 3 yolks beaten 
with ^ cup sugar, 3 tbsps. cornstarch or 4 of flour, dash salt, 
and cook until thick. When cold add J^ cup whipped cream, 
add 1 teasp. vanilla for cream filling and 2 squares melted choco- 
late for chocolate filling, or omit vanilla and add 3^ cup very 
strong coffee using another tbsp. flour, or use all maple sugar 
shaved instead of granulated for maple filling. 

Cover eclairs with a thin frosting. 

1513. Cream Puffs, Fruit Filling. — Mix slightly sweet- 
ened and whipped cream with a dash of salt and candied fruit 
cut in bits and fill small puffs. Dust with Red Sugar and 
vanilla sugar. 



CAKES 319 



Crtjllebs, Fried Cakes, Etc. 

1514. Crullers. — Cream J^ cup butter, add 1 cup sugar, 
2 yolks beaten thick, 3 cups flour, 3 teasps. baking-powder, dash 
salt, 1 teasp. vanilla, 4 drops oil cinnamon, 4 of nutmeg, 1 cup 
milk, and 3 whites beaten stiff. Add enough flour to roll out 
thin, cut into oblong squares, cut 4 gashes through centres 
lengthwise, run fingers in and out of gashes to separate, fry in 
deep, hot fat, drain, and roll in powdered sugar; or flavor with 
grated rind of 1 orange and cut in rings, fry, and cover while 
warm with the orange juice mixed with powdered sugar. 

1515. Crullers, French Style. — Cook together 1 cup 
hot water, 3 tbsps. sugar, 1 teasp. orange rind, and J^ cup butter. 
When boiling add 1 cup flour and cook until very thick. Turn 
into a bowl and add, beating constantly, 3 eggs, 1 at a time. 
Drop from a spoon into hot fat. Roll in powdered sugar mixed 
with finely minced almonds. 

1516. Fried Cakes. — Sift 3J^ cups flour with 5 teasps. 
baking-powder and ^ teasp. salt 3 times, add 1 cup and 2 tbsps. 
powdered sugar to 2 large or 3 small eggs beaten very light, 3 
tbsps. soft butter, 1 tbsp. vanilla, and 5 drops oil of nutmeg. 
Add flour alternately with 1 cup milk or water, adding more flour 
if necessary, but keep dough soft, put bowl on ice for J^ an 
hour or more, roll on cold board or marble, cut with floured round 
cutter with hole in middle and dipped in flour, and fry, three or 
four at a time, in hot fat. The centres may be fried, rolled in 
powdered sugar mixed with Red Sugar, and served for afternoon 
tea. 

IS 17. Surprise Fried Cakes. — Follow recipe for Fried 
Cakes, roll very thin, cut with biscuit-cutter, place a piece of 
baked apple, thick custard, jam, jelly, or orange marmalade 
or stewed fruit in centre, wet edges with egg white mixed with 
cold water, cover with other rounds, putting two together like 
a sandwich, pinch edges, and fry. Dust with powdered sugar 
just before serving them. These may also be rolled in balls. 

1S18. Raised Fried Cakes or Doughnuts. — Early in 
the evening mix J^ yeast cake with 1 cup of scalded and cooled 
milk, beat in IJ^ cups flour, beat well, cover, and let rise for 2 



320 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

hours, add 2 beaten eggs, J^ cup melted butter, J^ teasp. salt, \^ 
of a grated nutmeg, ^ cup sugar, and flour to make soft dough. 
Currants or sultanas or any candied chopped fruit may be put 
in now. Knead well, cover, and keep rather warm until morning. 
Roll out, cut in long, thin strips, twist together, let stand until 
double in bulk, and fry. Roll in powdered sugar. 



Cookies, Dbop Cakes, and Unfrosted Cakes 

1519. Cookies and Drop Cakes. — Method. — Bake 
cookies and drop cakes quickly on thin tin baking-sheet or thick 
paper greased with unsalted butter or cottolene, bake, and cool 
on a wire rack. When small cakes or cookies become hard and 
dry, reheat them, as they are needed, in a paper bag in a hot 
oven, or in the upper part of the double boiler. 

1520. Brown Sugar Cookies. — Cream y^ cup butter, add 

1 cup brown sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 3^ teasp. soda dissolved in 

2 tbsps. water, 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teasp. baking-powder, 
and enough flour to make a very soft dough. Place bowl in ice- 
box until morning, roll and cut out in small cakes, dust with 
granulated sugar, sprinkle with minced English walnuts, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

1521. Cocoanut Cookies. — Cream 1 cup butter, add 1 
cup sugar and 1 cup flour sifted with J^ teasp. soda, 3 well- 
beaten eggs, and 1 cup grated cocoanut, add more flour, but roll 
as soft as possible. Cut out and bake. 

1522. Chocolate Cookies. — Cream 3^ cup butter, add 1 
cup sugar, 3>^ teasp. salt, 2 squares melted chocolate, 2 drops oil 
cinnamon, 3^ teasp. vanilla, 1 well-beaten egg, and 3^ teasp. 
soda in 2 tbsps. milk. Beat well and add flour to make soft 
dough. Cool and cut with small cutter, and bake. 

1523. Chocolate Crumb Cakes. — Cream 3^ cup butter, 
add 1 cup light-brown sugar, 3 well-beaten yolks, 2 squares 
melted chocolate, ^ cup toasted bread crumbs mixed with 1 
teasp. baking-powder, add 34 teasp. soda dissolved in 2 tbsps. 
warm water, 1 teasp. orange juice and same of rind, 3^ cup each 
sultanas and minced nuts, and the well beaten whites. Turn 
into greased patty pans. 



CAKES 321 

1524. Chocolate Nut Brownies. — Mix J^ cup melted 
butter with 1 cup granulated sugar, 2 squares melted chocolate, 
pinch salt, 2 well-beaten yolks, and J^ cup flour. Beat well and 
add 1 teasp. vanilla,-! cup broken pecans, and J^ cup flour sifted 
with 3^ teasp. baking-powder. Turn into buttered shallow tins, 
and bake in a moderate oven. Cut into squares while still warm. 

1525. Date and Nut Cookies. — Cream 1 cup butter, add 
1^ cups brown sugar, cream and add ^ cup sour milk, 3^ teasp. 
soda, and 1 teasp. baking-powder, and 3^ teasp. salt mixed with 
2 cups oatmeal or rolled oats. Add enough white flour to make 
a soft dough, cool and roll out very thin, cut in small rounds, 
cover one-half of them with minced nuts mixed with dates, 
cover with the other halves, dust well with granulated sugar, and 
bake. 

1526. German Christmas Honey Cakes. — Wash, dry, 
and shred 1 lb. unblanched almonds, and add 1 lb. honey, 1 lb. 
sugar, 3^ glass rum, 1 lb. flour, 2 oz. candied lemon peel chopped 
in small pieces, yellow rind of 1 fresh lemon also chopped, pow- 
dered cloves, and salt to taste. Mix this dough thoroughly and 
set it aside well covered for a week. Roll into sheets 1 inch 
thick and bake in quick oven on waxed paper or waxed tin sheet. 
Cut in oblong blocks while warm. Brush with sugar and water, 
place a split almond in each corner, and a cube of lemon peel in 
centre. Pack them between wax paper sheets in a tin box and 
do not use until after many months. They are very hard at 
first but improve with age. 

1527. Golden Squares. — Cream 1 cup butter with 2 cups 
sugar, add 10 well-beaten yolks, 3^ cup milk, 3 teasps. baking- 
powder sifted with 2)4, cups flour, and 1 tbsp. flavoring. Bake 
in thin layer in shallow pans, brush with milk while hot, dust 
with powdered sugar, and cut in small squares. Angel Cake 
may be made at the same time to use the egg whites. 

1528. Jam Jumbles. — Roll Sugar Cooky dough J^ inch 
thick, cut in small rounds, cover ]4, of them with jam. Cut 
the other halves in rings or in small holes. Cover the jam 
halves and bake. 

1529. Lady Fingers. — Beat 6 egg whites very stiff, add 
% cup powdered sugar, and udd to 4 yolks beaten thick and 



322 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

mixed with % cup flour sifted with )/s teasp. salt. Press through 
pastry tube on buttered wax paper in narrow finger lengths, 
dust with powdered sugar, and bake in a slow oven. 

1530- Macaroons. — Mix 13^ cups almond meal with 2 
beaten egg whites, drop from teaspoon on greased paper, and 
bake 20 minutes in slow oven. 

1531' Maple Gems. — Shave 2 cups maple sugar, add J^ 
cup cream, 2 beaten eggs, 3^ cup soft butter, 3 teasps. baking- 
powder in 1 cup flour, and enough flour to make rather stiff 
batter. Bake in hot buttered gem irons. 

1S32- Maple Sugar Jumbles. — Cream 1 scant cup but- 
ter with 2 cups maple sugar, add 3 beaten yolks, 1 cup flour, and 
2 teasps. baking-powder. Add beaten whites and flour to roll. 
Cut in small rounds, with hole in centre, sprinkle with maple 
sugar and minced pecans, and bake. 

1533. Molasses Fruit Drop Cakes. — Cream 1 cup butter 
and lard, half of each, add 1 cup sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup cur- 
rants dredged with flour, and add alternately 4 cups flour, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 cup molasses, and 1 teasp. soda in a little water. 
Add juice and grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 tbsp. vanilla. Drop 
on buttered tins, dust with granulated sugar, and bake in hot 



1534. Molasses Nut Cakes. — Cream J^ cup brown sugar, 
add % cup butter, J^ cup molasses, 1 beaten egg, % cup milk, 
1 teasp. soda sifted with 2 cups flour, 1 teasp. vanilla, 8 drops oil 
of cinnamon, 1 cup sultanas, }^ cup each currants, chopped and 
seeded raisins, and pecans. Fill tiny, round, deep patty pans 
half -full and bake in hot oven. 

1535. Oatmeal Drop Cakes.— Chop 2 cups of H. 0., 
add 1 cup of seeded and cut raisins, 1 cup pecans or walnuts 
broken, and 1 cup soft butter or shortening creamed with 1 
scant cup sugar, add 3 beaten eggs and 3^ teasp. soda in }/3 cup 
milk. Add grated rind of 1 orange and 1 tbsp. juice, and 2 cups 
flour. Drop from small spoon on buttered tin, and bake. 

1536. Orange Cookies. — Cream 3^ cup butter, add 1 cup 
sugar, grated rind 1 orange, 1 egg, J^ cup orange juice, 2 cups 
flour, and 4 teasps. baking-powder. Roll and cut, dust with 



CAKES 323 

granulated sugar, and bake. These should be eaten at once, as 
they soon dry. 

1537. Peanut Cookies. — Cream 4 tbsps. butter, add J^ 
cup sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 2 tbsps. milk, 3^ teasp. salt, and 1 
teasp. lemon juice. Beat well and add 13^ teasps. baking-powder 
with 1 cup flour and 2 cups chopped peanuts. Drop from tea- 
spoon, on buttered paper, place a whole peanut in centre of each, 
and bake in slow oven. 

1538. Rock Cakes. — Cream 1 cup butter, add 1 cup fine 
granulated sugar, 2 eggs, and beat well, add 1 cup flour sifted 
with 3^ teasp. baking-powder and beat 15 minutes. Add 1 cup 
each seeded raisins or sultanas, currants and chopped almonds, 
or walnuts or pecans, and 3 tbsps. brandy. A few chopped dates 
.may also be added. Drop from spoon and bake in quick oven. 

1539. Sugar Cookies or Jumbles. — Creain 1 cup butter, 
add 2 cups sugar, 3 beaten eggs, ^ cup milk, 1 teasp. vanilla and 
3 drops oil of nutmeg. Beat well and add 2 teasps. baking-pow- 
der sifted with 1 cup flour, adding enough flour to roll out as soft 
as possible. Roll out in a cold room on a cold marble or board. 
Cut, sprinkle with granulated sugar, and bake in a quick oven. 
If cut with hole in centre they are called jumbles. 

1540. Sour Creain Sugar Cookies. — Cream 1 cup but- 
ter, add \}4, cups sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 3^ teasp. soda in 3 tbsps. 
sour cream, flavor with oil of nutmeg, and add flour to roll. Or 
use more sour cream and less butter. 



Fancies for Afternoon Tea 

1541. Almond Cream Boats. — Sift ^ cup flour, 3 tbsps. 
rice flour or cornstarch, and add 6 tbsps. creamed butter, 2 tbsps. 
minced almonds, 1 egg yolk, 2 tbsps. sugar, and milk to make soft 
paste. Roll J^ inch thick, line small lightly greased boat-shaped 
tins, prick them, and fill with the following almond paste, and 
bake 15 minutes. Mix }4, cup ground almonds, 3^ cup sugar, 2 
tbsps. rice flour or cornstarch, 2 well-beaten eggs, and 3 tbsps. 
orange flower water or Maraschino. Add a few drops of cordial. 
Remove boats from tin and when cool cover tops Avith Coffee 
Glaze (1631). 



324 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1S42- Almond Fluffs in Paper Cases. — Sift 4 times J^ 
cup each flour and granulated sugar and J^ teasp. cream tartar, 
add 5 stiffly beaten egg whites and flavoring. Drop on buttered 
paper and bake in very slow oven. When cool serve in paper 
cases. 

1S43. Chocolate Meringues. — Beat 4 egg whites very 
stiff, add 1 cup powdered sugar and 1 cup of grated confectioner's 
chocolate, and 1 teasp. baking-powder. Drop on buttered paper 
and bake in slow oven. 

1544- Date Sticks. — Beat 4 egg whites very stiff, add 2 
scant cups granulated sugar and 3^ cup each blanched almonds 
and dates in small pieces. Flavor with vanilla and bake in a 
shallow buttered pan 40 minutes in very slow oven. When 
nearly cool cut in long, narrow strips. 

1545. Dobisch Tortes (Buda-Pesth Cakes). — Bake 
a plain cake mixture in very thin sheets, while warm cut in strips 
3 inches long and 1 inch wide, and pile 4 or 5 layers on top of 
each other with different fillings between, having the top layer 
a brittle caramel. Creamed, sweetened, and flavored butter, 
chocolate or coffee fillings, and jam with whipped cream are the 
different layers. 

1546. Jam and Cheese Toast Strips. — Mix red-rasp- 
berry jam with cream cheese and spread on long, narrow fingers 
of white or entire-wheat bread toast, or spread on toasted 
crackers. 

1547. Macaroon Tortes. — Mix ground English walnuts 
with Boiled Frosting and spread between two fresh macaroons, 
cover top with a little of the frosting and a glaced walnut meat. 

1548. Marguerites. — Boil 1 cup sugar with 14, cup water 
until it threads, reduce heat, and add 5 marshmallows cut in 
pieces, pour onto 2 stiffly beaten whites, add 2 tbsps. shredded 
cocoanut, 1 cup broken walnut meats, and J^ teasp. vanilla. 
Spread on Saltines and put in oven until just light brown. 

1549. Marshmallow Crackers. — Cover unsweetened, 
thin crackers with a little creamed butter, place a marshmallow 
on each, dot with butter, and brown in oven, and serve at once. 



CAKES 325 

1550. Marshmallow Macaroons. — Toast marshmal- 
lows, and toast twice as many macaroons, put marshmallows be- 
tween each two macaroons, roll them in Glaze (1631^ flavored 
with orange or rum, then in grated cocoanut. 

1551. Marshmallow Marguerites. — Make Boiled 
Frosting (1610) and before pouring into the eggs add 6 or 8 fresh 
marshmallows. After beating with the eggs add 1 cup of minced 
almonds or pecans and J^ cup fresh cocoanut. Spread on 
crackers and slightly brown them in oven. 

1552. Nut Bars. — Mix 1 cup brown sugar with 1 egg, 1 cup 
of American walnut meats broken into bits, a pinch of salt, 
J^ teasp. soda dissolved in 1 tbsp. hot water, and 2 tbsps. of 
flour. Bake and cut in bars. 

Petits Fours and Frosted Cakes 

Petits fours are rich cakes baked in shallow pans, cut in 
squares, diamonds, or rounds, then frosted and garnished 
with nuts, candied fruits, etc. 

1553. Almond Petits Fours. — Beat 7 egg yolks very 
light and thick, add 1 cup sugar, 1 teasp. lemon juice in which 
grated rind has soaked, j^ cup blanched almonds minced fine, 
beat well, and fold in the whites beaten stiff alternately with 1 
cup sifted flour, add J^ cup softened butter and 1 teasp. almond 
extract. Bake in shallow pan and cut in small cakes. Cover 
with White Fondant (1615) flavored with almond extract and 
garnish with blanched almonds and leaves of angelica. 

1554. Angel Cake Balls. — Pull a fresh-baked Angel Cake 
in small pieces, roll them into balls, and dip them in Fondant or 
confectioner's sugar frosting. 

1555. Babas for Afternoon Tea. — Babas are raised 
frosted cake quite popular in the French afternoon tea shops. 
Mix }/2 yeast cake dissolved in 3^ cup warm milk with J^ cup 
flour and place in warm place until very light. Add J^ cup 
creamed butter, J^ cup sugar, 3 eggs, one by one, beat well, and 
add grated peel of 1 lemon, 2 cups flour, 1 cup seeded raisins, 
J^ cup" currants, beat 15 minutes, turn into a small tube mould, 
leaving room, however, for it to double in bulk. When very 



326 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

light bake ^ of an hour in moderate oven and while warm cover 
with Glac6 (1631) flavored with rum. 

1556. Brioche. — ^Make Baba Mixture (1555) without fruit, 
bake in large mould, and serve either warm or cold. 

1557. Cocoanut and Almond Cakes. — Cream 3^ cup 
butter, add ^ cup sugar, 1 tbsp. lemon peel grated very fine, 

4 whole eggs alternately with 1 cup flour, 3^ cup fresh cocoanut, 
J^ cup minced almonds, and a few candied cherries. Bake in 
thin sheet, cut, and frost with pink frosting. 

1558. Cocoanut Thumbs. — Cream }/^ cup butter, add 1 
cup sugar, 1 cup water, 2 cups flour, and 1 tbsp. cornstarch and 
2 teasps. baking-powder. Add 3 egg whites beaten stiff and 1 
teasp. vanilla. Bake in small, round, deep tins, cover top and 
sides with soft frosting flavored with almond extract, and roll 
in 1 cup fresh-grated cocoanut. 

1559. Coffee Cocoa Cakes. — Cream }/s cup butter, add 
2 cups dark-brown sugar, 3 beaten yolks, and 3^ cup cocoa dis- 
solved in 3^ cup very strong, hot coffee. Beat and add 3^ 
teasp. soda dissolved in 3^ cup sour cream and 2 cups floiu* 
with 1 teasp. baking-powder. Add whites beaten stiff, bake in 
small tins, and cover with Caramel Coffee Frosting (1623) and 
garnish with candied cherries. 

1560. Coffee Petits Fours. — Beat 2 whole eggs, add 1 cup 

thick cream and 1 cup sugar, add 13^ cups flour, 13^ teasps. 
baking-powder, and 3€ teasp. salt. Add 1 teasp. vanilla and 
bake in J^-inch sheets in shallow pans. Cut in squares or ovals, 
and put two together with the following between: Dissolve 2 
tbsps. cornstarch in water, add 1 cup very strong coffee, cook 

5 minutes, pour onto 2 egg yolks well beaten with 34 cup sugar, 
return to fire, cook a moment, and add 1 teasp. butter. Cover 
cakes with Coffee Frosting (1623) and garnish with browned 
almonds and candied cherries. 

1561. Coffee and Molasses Petits Fours. — Cream 3^ 
cup butter with 3^ cup sugar, add 2 beaten eggs, 3^ cup strong 
coffee, }/2 cup molasses, 3^ teasp. soda in a little water, and 2 
cups flour. Bake, cut, and cover with Coffee Chocolate Frosting 
(1624), putting an English walnut meat on each square under 
the frosting. 



CAKES 327 

1562. Cordial Petits Fours. — Bake and cut a plain white 
cake mixture in very thin sheets, put them together in pairs 
with thick custard or any white frosting flavored with any cor- 
dial. Benedictine is recommended. Frost with same flavored 
frosting. 

1563. Cream Cakes en Surprise. — ^Bake any light 
delicate cake or sponge cake in small, round, deep tins, cut a piece 
from top of each, take out crumbs, leaving a box, fill with thick 
custard or whipped cream, add }/2 teasp. jelly or jam, replace 
cover, and cover top and sides with Boiled or Confectioner's 
Frosting. 

1564. Cream Nut Petits Fours. — Add 1 cup minced nuts 
to 1 cup cream, whip it very stiff, and place on ice. Beat 1 egg 
white very stiff with a dash salt and cream tartar, add 3^ cup 
hot sirup and the well-beaten yolk, beat until cold, and add 1 
teasp. vanilla and 3^ teasp. almond, and add to the whipped 
cream. Fill between layers of plain white or sponge cake cut in 
diamonds and cover with frosting. 

1565. Kuchen Frosted with Candied Fruits. — ^Rub 
together 2 cups flour sifted several times with 4 teasps. baking- 
powder and 3^ teasp. salt, add grating of nutmeg, 3 tbsps. sugar, 
3 tbsps. butter, ^ cup milk and mix quite soft, spread in a 
shallow, buttered pan, dust with cinnamon, and bake in hot oven. 
When nearly cold cover with Milk Glaze (1631), then with slices 
of candied pineapple, plums and cherries soaked in rum, and 
pecan meats. Cut in squares, heat, split open and spread with 
butter between, and serve for afternoon tea or for a luncheon 
cake. 

1566. Genoise Cakes. — Cream 1 cup butter with grated 
peel of 1 lemon, add 1 cup sugar, and add, one at a time, 5 eggs, 
beating well between each egg and adding alternately with the 
eggs 2 cups flour sifted with 1 teasp. baking-powder. Add 1 
teasp. vanilla and }4 teasp. almond extract and bake in small, 
wedge-shaped moulds. Cover with glaze or frosting. 

1567. Nougatine Petits Fours. — Bake a fine light butter 
cake, about 3^ inch thick, cut in large squares, cover with Choc- 
olate Frosting (1614), and completely cover while frosting is soft 
with minced and browned almonds. 



328 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1568. Pound Cakes. — Cream % cup butter, add 1 cup 
sugar and the rind of 1 lemon grated very fine and soaked in the 
juice. Beat well and add, one at a time, 5 eggs and 2 cups 
flour, 1 teasp. baking-powder, and dash of salt. Beat 15 minutes, 
adding 1 teasp. vanilla, press into very small tins through a 
pastry tube, and bake 20 minutes in a slow oven. Cover with 
Confectioner's Frosting any desired flavor and color. 

1569. Pound Cakes in Layers. — Cream 1 cup butter, 
add 1 cup sugar and 5 yolks, and beat until thick. Add 2 cups 
sifted flour, 2 teasps. flavoring, the egg whites beaten stiff, turn 
into 2 square pans, 3^ inch thick, and bake. When cool spread 
1 layer with jelly, jam, or marmalade, cover with the other layer 
cut in very small squares or fancy shapes, cover with frostingj 
and garnish with candied fruit, angelica, dragfes, or nuts. 

1570. Ponts d' Amours. — Bake the above mixture in inch- 
thick layers, cut in small rounds, and cut a hole not quite through 
in centre of each, or bake the cakes in dariole moulds. Frost 
and fill open centres or wells with whipped cream mixed with 
chopped candied fruits and almonds. 

1571' Rice Flour Cakes. — Cream 3^ cup butter with ^ 
cup sugar, add 2 beaten yolks, 1 teasp. vanilla, 1 teasp. almond 
extract, juice and grated rind 1 lemon, and 3^ cup cold water. 
Beat and add IJ^ cups rice flour, 1 teasp. baking-powder, and 
4 egg whites beaten stiff. Bake in heart-shape tins, cover with 
Confectioner's Frosting flavored with cordial, brandy, or rum, 
and garnish with pink candies and silver dragees. 

1572. Sandwich Cakes. — Beat 5 egg whites very stiff, 
add 3 beaten yolks, }/2 cup flour, a dash salt, and 1 teasp. flavor- 
ing. Drop onto unbuttered paper from a teaspoon and bake 10 
minutes. Cover with Confectioner's Frosting and put two to- 
gether with a layer of minced nuts and candied fruits between. 

1573. Sponge Cake Petits Fours with Coffee Gar- 
nish. — Beat 4 eggs with ^ cup sugar and a dash salt, and put 
it in double boiler, add a little minced orange peel, and whip 
until hot but not boiling, take from fire, add 1 teasp. flavoring, 
and beat until cold, add 1 cup warm flour, and turn into shallow 
pan lined with buttered and floured paper, and bake 20 minutes 
in very slow oven. When cold cut in squares, dip in Coffee 



CAKES 329 

Fondant or Frosting, sprinkle with minced and browned al- 
monds, pipe a garnish of Coffee Butter Filling (1593) around 
edge, and place candied chestnuts or marrons glaces in centre. 

1574. White Cakes for a Large Afternoon Tea. — 

This recipe will make 5 or 6 dozen if baked in small patty pans. 
Cream ^ cup butter, add IJ^ cups sugar, 2 well-beaten yolks, 
1 teasp. each almond and vanilla, % cup milk, 3}^ cups flour 
sifted several times with 3 teasps. baking-powder, and J^ teasp. 
salt. Beat well and add 6 egg whites beaten very stiff. Add 
some of the egg white before all of the flour is in. Bake and 
frost with Confectioner's Frosting, flavored as desired. 



PufF-Paste Dainties for Afternoon Tea 

1575. Allumettes. — Roll puff paste 3^ an inch thick, in 
strips 4 inches long and 1 inch wide. Bake, and when cool split 
off tops and scoop out the centres, fill with a custard cream, or 
with orange marmalade, replace tops and cover with glaze, and 
sprinkle with minced candied orange peel while soft. 

1576. Almond Strips. — Roll pastry quite thin, cut in 
strips and bake, brush with egg white, cover with minced nuts, 
dust with sugar and cinnamon, and return to oven until brown. 

1577. Napoleons. — Roll paste quite thin, cut in oblong 
squares, and bake. Put 3 or 4 together with a different filling 
between each — thick custard, jelly, or jam — and cover top with 
Chocolate Frosting, and pipe edge with Coffee Butter Filling 
(1593). 

1578. Pastry Hearts. — Roll rich pastry very thin, spread 
with jelly or frosting, roll up tight like a jelly roll, turn and cut 
in 3^ inch slices, dent and point them in the shape of a heart, and 
bake them. 

Wafers 

1579. Almond Wafers. — Beat 3 egg whites quite stiff, add 
IM cups powdered sugar, 1 tbsp. finely grated lemon rind, 1 tbsp. 
cinnamon, and ^ lb. unblanched almonds minced fine. Dust 
board with flour and powdered sugar, roll mixture very thin, cut. 



330 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

and bake. These may be rolled around a round stick while warm 
to form them into cylinders. 

1580' Almond Sand Cakes. — Cream Ij^ cups butter, 
add 2J^ cups sugar, 1 whole egg, and 2 yolks, and add 4 cups 
sifted flour with 1 tbsp. cinnamon. Beat well, roll out very thin, 
cut in hearts or diamonds, brush with slightly beaten egg white, 
put a split almond on each corner, brush with egg white again, 
sprinkle granulated sugar and powdered cinnamon from paper 
cornucopias in centre, and bake. These will keep weeks if kept 
in tin box between sheets of wax paper. 

1581. Chocolate Chips. — Cream 3^ cup butter, add 1 cup 
sugar and 2 eggs, add 4 tbsps. melted chocolate, 1 teasp. vanilla, 
and flour to make soft batter, about 1 cup. Pour in a very thin 
sheet in narrow greased pans, bake quickly, brush with egg white, 
and cut in strips while hot. 

1582. Chocolate Drops. — Mix 3^ cup powdered sugar 
with 4 squares grated chocolate, add 3^ teasp. vanilla and 3 
beaten egg whites. Drop on buttered paper from teaspoon and 
bake in slow oven. 

1583. Chocolate and Nut Wafers. — Cream 1 cup but- 
ter with 1 cup granulated sugar, add 2 beaten eggs, 2 squares 
chocolate melted, J^ cup flour, 1 teasp. vanilla, and 3^ cup Eng- 
lish walnut meats broken small. Bake in a thin layer and cut 
in squares. 

1584. Chocolate Sponge Wafers. — Beat 6 egg whites, 
add 1 cup sugar, 3^ lb. confectioner's chocolate grated, and 10 
tbsps. flour. Drop from teaspoon on greased paper and bake 
quickly. 

1585. Cream Wafers. — Sift 1 cup flour with 3^ teasp. 
salt, add 1 tbsp. sugar and enough cream to roll. Roll very thin, 
cut in fancy shapes, dust with sugar and with minced nuts or 
grated cocoanut, and bake. 

1586. Date and Pecan Wafers. — Beat 2 egg whites quite 
stiff adding 2 cups brown sugar, add 1 cup broken pecans, dusted 
with salt, and 1 cup dates cut in bits. Drop from teaspoon on 
buttered tin and bake 10 minutes. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 331 

1S87. Oatmeal Wafers. — Cream 2 tbsps. butter, add 1 
cup sugar, 2 beaten yolks, 1 teasp. vanilla, 2}^ cups rolled oats, 
mixed with 3 teasps. baking-powder, and J^ teasp. salt. Add 
beaten whites, and drop on greased tin, far apart, from teaspoon. 
Bake quickly. These may be rolled around a smooth stick, like 
a broomstick, to make them into rolled wafers. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 

FILLINGS 

1S88- Almond Paste Filling. — Mix and beat, one at a 
time, 3 yolks, add }/§ lb. almond paste, 1 tbsp. creamed butter, 
J^ cup each minced almonds, sugar, and hot milk. Cook until 
thick, add J^ teasp. almond extract, beat until nearly cool. 

1589. Caramel Fillings. — 1. Cook 1 cup sugar with 3 
tbsps. thick Caramel-Coffee (1623), and 4 tbsps. water until it 
spins a thread, pour slowly into 1 large egg white beaten with a 
dash of salt and a pinch of cream tartar. Add 1 teasp. vanilla, 
fill and cover cake, and garnish with pecans. 

2. Cook ^ cup cream, 3^ cup light-brown sugar, 1 tbsp. but- 
ter, and tiny pinch of soda, until it threads, add 4 tbsps. thick 
caramel and 1 teasp. vanilla. Beat 5 minutes and add 3>^ cup 
whipped cream. Cover the cake with Caramel Frosting (1623), 
and garnish with candied cherries and pecans. 

3. Flavor 1 cup cream with Coffee-Caramel, sweeten slightly, 
add dash salt, and beat until very thick. 

1590. Chocolate Fillings.— 1. Butter Filling.— Sift 2 
tbsps. each sugar and flour, and add ^ cup warm milk, cook 5 
minutes, add 2 squares grated chocolate, when smooth pour over 
1 beaten egg, cool, and add J^ cup washed butter, creamed with 
J/^ cup powdered sugar. Flavor with vanilla and a few drops of 
brandy or orange juice. Fill cakes and cover with Chocolate 
Icing. 

2. Cornstarch Filling.^BoU M cup milk with H cup 
powdered sugar, 4 tbsps. grated chocolate, and 1 tbsp. butter, 
add 1 tbsp. cornstarch softened in J^ cup cold milk, cook 5 min- 
utes, and flavor with vanilla, caramel, coffee, or sherry. 

3. Egg-White Filling and Frosting. — Boil 1}4 cups sugar 
with 3^ cup thin cream and 2 squares chocolate 5 or 6 minutes, 



332 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

turn onto 2 egg whites beaten with a pinch of salt, beat until 
cold in bowl of ice-water. Flavor with vanilla and sherry or 
brandy. Fill and cover cakes. 

4. Egg- Yolk Filling. — ^Melt 3 squares of grated chocolate in 
3 tbsps. cream, pour onto 2 well-beaten yolks, add dash salt, 
5^ cup powdered sugar, and cook until thick, beat until cool, 
flavor with vanilla and a dash of cinnamon. 

1591. Fudge Filling. — Boil 1 cup sugar with 3^ cup milk, 

1 tbsp. butter, and 3 squares of grated chocolate without stirring, 
8 minutes. Take from fire and beat until cool, add 1 cup Eng- 
lish walnuts or pecan meats broken in bits, and 1 tbsp. each 
vanilla and orange sirup. 

1592. Cocoanut Filling. — Make cake with cocoanut 
milk, fill, and cover with Boiled Frosting (1610) filled with fresh- 
grated cocoanut, flavor with the juice of a blood orange, sprinkle 
cocoanut over top, and squeeze the juice over it. This makes 
cake that is pretty as well as delicious. 

1593. Coffee Filling. — 1. Pour 1 cup hot milk over 2 
yolks beaten with 2 tbsps. cornstarch and }/2 cup powdered 
sugar, return to double boiler, cook until boiling, add J^ cup 
very strong black coffee, or use 2 tbsps. of a good brand of coffee 
extract. Take from fire, and add 1 tbsp. butter creamed with 

2 of sugar, or ]/^ cup whipped cream. 

2. Wash and cream J/^ cup butter, and J^ cup XXXX sugar, 
cream again, and add 1 yolk well beaten and 3 tbsps. very 
strong coffee or coffee extract. 

1594. Cream Filling. — Pour Ij/^ cups hot milk over 2 
beaten eggs mixed with J^ cup powdered sugar and 3 tbsps. 
cornstarch. Return to boiler, cook until it thickens, add 1 teasp. 
butter, beat until cool, add 1 teasp. flavoring and J^ cup whipped 
Jream. 

1595. Date Filling. — Scald, dry, stone, and chop J^ lb. 
dates, add to J^ cup cream whipped stiff with 1 teasp. lemon 
juice. FiU cakes and cover with frosting. 

1596. Fruit and Nut Filling.— Add to half of a Boiled 
Frosting (1610) }/i cup each candied cherries, pineapple, minced 
almonds and pecans ; flavor with cherry and orange juice. Cover 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 333 

cake with remainder of frosting and garnish with cherries and 
almonds. 

1597. Lemon Butter Filling. — Mix 2 cups granulated 
sugar with J^ cup butter and 6 eggs beaten together, and the 
grated rind of 2 lemons and the juice of 3, cook in a double boiler 
until the consistency of honey. Put this in small glasses and 
when cold cover with melted paraffin. This will keep for weeks 
and is useful for many things. 

1598. Maple Sugar Filling. — Shave 1 cup maple sugar, 
and cook with 3^ cup cream until it forms a soft ball in cold 
water, beat until cold, adding a few drops of vanilla. Cover cake 
with Maple Frosting (1616). 

1599. Maple, Nut, and Marshmallow Filling.— Cook 

1 cup shaved maple sugar with 3^ cup milk and 1 tbsp. butter 
15 minutes, add 1 cup each melted marshmallows and broken 
pecans. 

1600. Marshmallow Filling.— Cook 13^^ cups sugar with 
^ cup milk 10 minutes, add 3^ lb. marshmallows melted in 
4 tbsps. water, add dash of salt, beat until thick, flavor with 
vanilla and almond extract, or with Maraschino and almond; or 
puff marshmallows in hot oven or over steam, arrange on top of 
cake, and pour Boiled Frosting over them. 

160.1. Marshmallow Gum-Arabic Filling. — Cook 5 
tbsps. very clean gum-arabic, dissolved in 3^ cup cold water, with 
}/2 cup powdered sugar until thick enough to form a soft ball in 
cold water, strain, and pour slowly into 1 egg white beaten very 
stiff, with a pinch of salt and of cream of tartar. Beat undl 
thick, flavor with a few drops of vanilla and lemon juice. Pour 
over cake and smooth with knife dipped in hot water. This is 
delicious if covered with a thin coating of melted chocolate. 

1602. Mocha-Cocoa Filling. — ^Wash and cream until 
free from salt J^ cup butter, add 13>^ cups XXXX sugar, add 

2 tbsps. cocoa or grated chocolate dissolved in 3 tbsps. very 
strong coffee, or a good coffee extract, add 1 teasp. vanilla, and 
cover cake with Coffee Icing. 

1603. Nougat Filling. — Add 1 cup nut meats broken fine 
to 1 yolk beaten thick, 3 tbsps. powdered sugar, J^ cup whipped 



334 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

cream, and the white beaten very stiff with a dash of salt. Beat 
well and add to Boiled Frosting, and fill and cover cakes. 

1604. Orange Fillings. — 1. Beat whites of 2 eggs, and 
add grated rind and juice of 1 orange and XXXX sugar to 
thicken. 

2. Add to grated rind of 1 orange 2 egg whites beaten stiff 
with 3^ cup powdered sugar, add slowly 1 teasp. gelatine dis- 
solved in the juice of the orange heated and cooled, and 1 teasp. 
lemon juice and 1 of orange extract. Fill cakes and cover with 
Boiled Frosting, colored pale yellow, and garnish with candied 
orange quarters and Malaga grapes. 

3. Cook 1 cup sugar with 3^ cup each shredded almonds and 
the jelly from orange marmalade or Orange Tunisian (1808), and 
beat unto creamy, fill cakes and cover with Boiled Frosting 
flavored with a few drops of orange curacjoa. 

4. Heat 1 scant cup orange juice, pour over 2 tbsps. corn- 
starch mixed with J^ cup sugar, return to boiler, cook 10 min- 
utes, pour a little of this over 2 beaten yolks, return to boiler 
and cook a moment, add 1 teasp. butter and the stiflSy beaten 
white of 1 egg. Fill cakes and cover with 1 unbeaten egg white 
mixed with 1 cup XXXX sugar and hot orange juice. 

1605. Peach Filling. — Add 1 cup peach pulp to 1 cup 
whipped cream, 3^ cup powdered sugar, or add pulp to Cream 
Filling (1594), fill cakes, cover with Boiled Frosting colored pale 
pink, and sprinkle with chopped or shredded almonds. 

1606. Pineapple Filling. — Dissolve 1 tbsp. gelatine in 
2 tbsps. water, add 3^ cup hot pineapple juice cooked with 3 
tbsps. sugar and dash salt and 1 teasp. lemon juice, add 1 cup 
chopped and drained pineapple and 3^ cup broken pecans. 
Cool and add 1 egg white beaten stiff. Cover cakes with XXXX 
sugar mixed with hot pineapple juice and 1 teasp. lemon juice. 
Garnish with candied pineapple and pecans. 

1607. Pistachio Filling. — Boil 2 cups granulated sugar 
with 1 cup water until it threads, pour into 3 well-beaten egg 
whites beaten with a dash of salt and a tiny pinch of cream tartar. 
Flavor with pistachio extract, almond extract, and orange flower 
water or cura9oa, tint pale green, add 1 cup minced pistachio 
nuts, and put between cakes and pipe it on top. Dust with the 
pistachio nuts. Make a delicate or white cake flavored with 
almond and orange flower water. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 335 

1608. Prune Filling. — Whip ^ cup cream, add H cup 
stewed prunes, J^ cup minced almonds, dash salt, and 1 tbsp. 
sherry. Fill cake and cover with Boiled Frosting. 



FROSTINGS 

Cover warm cakes with cold frostings and cold cakes with 
warm frostings. Dust butter cakes slightly with flour be- 
fore frosting. When covering under side of cakes remove 
crumbs carefully with a light brush. Cakes to be orna- 
mented or dipped in Fondant may be glazed with any of the 
glazes given below, especially with egg glaze. Let stand 
several hours. When frosting sides of cakes add a little more 
sugar, and when frosting shallow loaf cakes pin a stiff but- 
tered paper around edge in order to have a thick frosting. 
All cakes, both large and small, may be placed on a wire rack 
in a shallow pan, and place pan in a larger one containing hot 
water. All frosting that falls through may be used again. 
For fruit cakes to be decorated cover first with almond paste, 
as it makes a smooth foundation and will keep the cake 
fresh. 

1609. Almond Paste (to cover cakes).— Mix ]4, lb. 

almond paste (buy it at the confectioner's) with 2 yolks and con- 
fectioner's sugar until soft enough to roll. Cover cake with a 
layer of this, when firm cover with frosting. 

Boiled Frostings 

1610. Boiled Frosting, Best. — Add J^ cup water to 1 
cup granulated sugar and J^ teasp. cream tartar, stir over fire 
until it boils, then boil without stirring until it spins a long thread. 
Pour slowly onto 2 egg whites beaten stiff with a dash of salt, 
beating constantly, turn into a double boiler, and cook until 
mixture looks poached, put saucepan in pan of cold water, and 
beat until nearly cold. Add flavor, and if too thick add a little 



336 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

lemon juice, if not thick enough cook a little longer. Put on 
cake with a wet knife, piling it up lightly, pin paper around cake, 
or cover cake with a thin layer of the frosting, put in hot oven 
until it begins to brown slightly, take from oven, cover with 
minced and browned nuts, and cover with another layer of 
frosting and again with nuts. If frosting is too thick add a little 
cold water. To secure a glossy finish pour frosting over cake 
and do not disturb it. That which runs off may be used for 
other purposes. 

1611. Boiled Frosting, Ordinary. — Beat 1 egg white 
with dash salt and cream tartar until light but not dry, slowly 
add 4 tbsps. granulated sugar, turn into a double boiler, and 
cook until smooth, flavor, and use at once. 

1612. Brown Sugar Frosting. — Cook 1 cup brown sugar 
with 14: cup milk and 1 teasp. butter until it will form a soft ball 
when dropped in cold water, flavor, and beat until thick. This 
is suitable for molasses, spice, and plain fruit cakes. 

1613. Cocoanut Frosting. — Add to Boiled Frosting 1 
cup fresh-grated cocoanut with juice and grated rind of a small 
orange. A blood orange is preferable. 

1614. Chocolate Frosting. — Add 2 tbsps. grated choco- 
late or rich cocoa to Boiled Frosting before adding to egg, flavor 
with a few drops of vanilla and brandy, or rum or orange juice. 

1615. Fondant Frosting. — Fondant requires some prac- 
tice, as it is rather difficult to make. It is used for small cakes, 
as well as bonbons, and is very sweet and smooth. It also keeps 
well. Cook 2 cups granulated sugar with J/^ cup water, stirring 
until it boils, then remove spoon and boil slowly without stirring, 
but wash down sides of saucepan with a wet sponge or brush. 
Add 3^ teasp. cream tartar or 1 teasp. glucose, and cover while 
cooking. Boil until it registers 238 degrees, or until a little will 
form a soft ball when dropped in cold water, turn on a marble 
slab brushed with olive oil and wiped with soft paper. When 
beginning to cool turn edges toward centre with spatula until 
it begins to become white. While still soft knead until it is a 
soft ball. Place in a glass jar, covering with wax paper, then 
with heavy paper and a damp cloth, and place in ice-box for 
24 hours. Melt it in double boiler, add flavoring, and it is ready 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 337 

to use. It may be melted over again if any be left. Keep it 
warm and stir it while covering cakes. 

1616. Maple Sugar Frosting. — Shave J^ lb. maple sugar, 
add 3^ cup water, boil until it spins a thread, and pour slowly onto 
1 large egg white beaten with J^ teasp. cream tartar and a dash 
salt. 

1617. Marshmallow Frosting. — Add to Boiled Frosting 
3^ lb. of marshmallows melted in 1 tbsp. boiling water, add 1 
teasp. vanilla and a few drops of almond extract. Beat until 
cold and thick. 

1618. Nut Frosting. — Add 1 cup chopped nuts to Boiled 
Frosting, or to any frosting made from confectioner's sugar. 

1619. Chocolate Cream Egg Frosting. — Boil 1 cup 
sugar, }/2 cup cream, 1 tbsp. butter, 2 squares or less of grated 
chocolate, and J^ teasp. cinnamon 3 minutes, stirring constantly, 
pour a little of this onto a well-beaten egg, add to the remainder, 
beat well, add 1 teasp. vanilla. Orange juice or sirup or brandy 
may be used instead of cinnamon. 

Uncooked Frostings 

1620. Confectioner's Sugar Frosting. — Use XXXX 

confectioner's sugar sifted just before using, to which add hot 
fruit juice, or flavoring and hot water, until consistency to spread. 

1621. Confectioner's Sugar Frosting, Cooked. — 

Cook }4 cup granulated sugar with }4 cup boiling water 5 min- 
utes, add 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 1 teasp. orange juice or any desired 
flavoring, take from fire, and sift in XXXX sugar to thicken. 

1622. Brandy Peach Frosting. — Add 2 tbsps. warm 
sirup from brandy peaches t6 1 cup XXXX sugar. f 

1623. Caramel-Coffee Frosting. — ^Make caramel with 
hot, strong coffee instead of water, and add enough to 1 cup 
XXXX sugar to nearly spread, and add a Kttle cream. Add 
dash salt and a few drops of vanilla. 

1624. Chocolate-Coffee Frosting. — Add to 1 cup 

XXXX sugar 1 square grated chocolate melted in 3 tbsps. hot 
water, or strong coffee, and add 1 tbsp. cream, a little vanilla, 
and brandy or orange sirup, adding enough sugar to spread. 



338 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1625. Chocolate Butter Frosting. — Cream J^ cup 
washed butter, add 2 squares melted chocolate, 1 cup XXXX 
sugar, and flavor with orange juice or extract, or brandy. 

1626. Orange Frosting. — Add grated rind of 1 orange 
and 1 lemon to hot orange juice, strain, and add XXXX sugar 
to spread. 

1627. Pineapple Frosting. — Add 1 tbsp. lemon juice 
to 34 cup hot pineapple juice, and XXXX sugar to spread. 

1628. Ornamental Frosting. — Sift IJ^ cups confection- 
er's XXXX sugar. Beat 1 large egg white with 1 tbsp. of the 
sugar 3 minutes, add the sugar, 1 tbsp. at a time, beating well, 
and also add a few drops of 1 teasp. lemon juice in which grated 
orange rind has been soaked and squeezed through a cloth. 
Continue beating until frosting will cut clean with a knife, using 
all the lemon juice, but not all the sugar if possible. Cover cake 
with a thin coating, set aside to harden, or use a thick boiled 
frosting on cake; continue beating frosting, adding more sugar, 
cover, and when ready color, or add melted confectioner's 
chocolate and press through the tube. 

1629. Royal Frosting. — Add to 1 unbeaten egg white 
2 tbsps. cold water, and lemon or orange juice, or any flavor or 
cordial, add sifted XXXX sugar, stirring but not beating, until 
thick enough to spread. 

1630. Glaze. — Glaze is much thinner than frosting and is 
used warm as a coating on cold cakes, or, if made with egg white, 
cold on warm cakes. 

1631. Glaze of any Flavor. — Mix % cup XXXX sugar 
with \]/2 tbsps. warm water and place on fire until just warm, 
add 1 tbsp. strong coffee, or flavor; or use all fruit juice and no 
water. Pour over cake quite warm. This may also be made 
with milk. 

1632. Caramel Glaze. — Spread cakes with caramel and 
put in oven. 

1633. Chocolate Glaze. — Melt 2 squares grated choco- 
late with ']/i cup water. Add to IJ^ cups sifted XXXX sugar, 
1 tbsp. warm water, put on fire, and add 3 tbsps. of the chocolate 
and a little vanilla or brandy or cinnamon. 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 339 

1634. Egg Glaze. — ^To use under Fondant or Ornamental 
Frosting. Beat slightly 1 egg white with 1 tbsp. XXXX sugar 
and pour over cake. Let cake stand several hours before 
covering with other frosting. 




1635- Delicious Candy. — Cook 1 J^ cups each granulated 
sugar and light-brown sugar with 3^ cup corn sirup and % cup 
water, to soft ball stage, or until it threads. Pour gradually 
onto 2 egg whites beaten stiff, add 1 cup coarsely chopped nut 
meats or candied cherries, and 3^ teasp. flavoring. When it 
begins to stiffen turn into buttered pan and mark in squares. 

1636. Fondant Uncooked. — Cook 1 egg white with ^ 
the amount of cold water until stiff. With a silver fork add 
gradually XXXX sugar until stiff enough to mould, add flavor- 
ing and speck of salt. Dust fingers with the sugar and shape 
paste as desired. Press nuts, dates, or candied cherries in the 
balls of fondant to represent French bonbons. They may be 
dipped in chocolate melted with a small piece of cocoa butter; 
the latter makes chocolate smooth. 

1637. Glace for Fruits and Nuts. — Stir until boiling 
2 cups sugar, 1 tbsp. corn sirup, and 1 cup of water, then cook 
without stirring, but wiping sides of pan with wet cloth, until 
sirup has a slight tinge of color. Take from fire, stand sauce- 
pan in one of boiling water, and with a knitting-needle dip fruit 
or nuts, one by one, and then place on wax paper or on oiled 
marble. 

Dip orange quarters and Malaga grapes, 2 on a stem, in glace, 
and draw them along an oiled marble and when cold use as bon- 
bons, or as a garnish around creams and ices. If done carefully, 
long points of candy will form and these are most decorative; 
the orange quarters look like little ships. 

340 



SOME ACCESSORIES 



341 



1638- Mandarins Glaced. — Dip tangerine or mandarin 
quarters in the sirup and also dip a whole tangerine, peeled 
close to the pulp. Serve the candied quarters on a glass dish 
with the whole one in the centre. 

1639. Maple Sugar and Nut Candy. — Break in pieces 
1 lb. of soft, new maple sugar, add ^ cup hot water, ^ cup 
cream, and a pinch of salt. Cook until it will ball in cold water, 
take from fire, and beat in 1 cup of broken nut meats, beating 
constantly until it is creamy. Turn into a buttered shallow tin 
}/^ an inch thick. When cold cut in squares. 

1640. Marrons Glace.— Drain and dry Preserved Chest- 
nuts, and dip them in the sirup and dry on oiled paper. Orange 
peel, rose leaves, mint leaves, or violets, as well as fruit and nuts, 
may also be dipped. The chestnuts should be whole. 

1641. Paste Bonbons. — Soak 1 oz. gelatine in 3^ cup 
water, add to hot sirup made of 2 cups sugar and 3^ cup water, 

and boil 20 minutes. Take from fire, 
add 2 tbsps. each lemon and orange 
juice, and 1 of rum or brandy, and if 
for mint bonbons add also 2 tbsps. 
Cr^me de Menthe and 2 drops of oil 
of spearmint, and color green. If for 
fruit, color pink and add H cup each 
minced candied fruits and pecans or almonds. Turn into a 
wet pan ^ inch thick, put on ice, and in 12 hours or less turn 
onto a marble dusted with XXXX sugar. Cut in squares and 
roll in sugar. 

1642. Dates Stuffed.— Wash and stone large dates, fill cen- 
tres with pecans or cream cheese or both, 
form into shape, apd roll in XXXX sugar. 

1643. Olives. — Soak ripe olives in 
olive oil with a bit of garlic and put on 
ice until serving time. Then wipe them 
well, also stone large olives, soak J^ an 
hour in lukewarm water, plunge in ice- 
water, and stuff them with bits of an- 
chovy or anchovy paste mixed with a 
little onion and parsley. 





342 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1644. Salted Nuts. — Blanch almonds or filberts or French 
chestnuts, and cook them quickly in olive oil, well salted, until 
brown, and dry on paper. Or dip them with finger tips in slightly 
beaten and strained egg white, taking but a few at a time. When 
well coated dust with salt and brown in oven. Or roll them in 
oil, dust with salt, and brown in oven. 




HOT BEVERAGES 

164S. Chocolate. — ^Melt 3 squares of grated chocolate 
with 3 tbsps. sugar and 1 cup hot water, or J/^ cup each water 
and hot coffee, add 3 cups rich milk, simmer 5 minutes, beating 
as soon as hot with Dover beater. Add 1 
teasp. vanilla and 1 of sherry and a little 
orange peel, and serve with a spoonful of 
whipped cream on each cup, in which drop 
a toasted marshmallow. Or use marsh- 
mallow without the cream. 

1646- Cocoa. — ^Make as above, using 
cocoa, and add 1 teasp. cornstarch to the 
cocoa, or pour the whole 
mixture onto 2 beaten eggs 
and return to boiler to cook 
for a moment. 





1647. Boiled Coffee. 

— Mix 10 tbsps. freshly- 
ground coffee with crushed 

shell and white of 1 egg and 1 cup cold water. Turn into the 
pot, add 4 cups cold water, and heat slowly until boiling. Stop 
up the spout if it is not a covered one and boil 5 minutes, pour 
in 2 tbsps. cold water, let stand a moment, and serve. 

1648. Percolated Coffee.— Use above amount of pow- 
dered coffee and cold water, putting water in bottom of pot 
and coffee in upper receptacle, let slowly come to a boil, and 
when it begins to percolate let it cook from 10 to 15 minutes. 

343 




344 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1649. After Dinner Cof- 
fee. — Follow either of the above 
recipes, using half the amount 
of water. 

1650. Turkish Coffee.— 

Have coffee ground as fine as 
cinnamon. Put 4 tbsps. coffee 
with 3 of powdered sugar in a 
small deep covered pot, add IJ^ 
cups cold water, and boil quickly 
3 minutes, let stand a moment, 
and serve in tiny cups. It will 
be thick and strong. 

1651. Vienna Coffee Melange. — Make coffee very 
strong, add a little sugar and cream, and boil 3 minutes. 
Strain into large cups or glasses, leaving room at top for a 
large spoonful of whipped cream. Suitable to serve at an 
afternoon affair. 

1652. Witches' Coffee. — After-dinner coffee to be served 
from the bowl with a silver ladle. Put J^ cup brandy and J^ cup 
alcohol in a silver bowl, light it, and drop in, one by one, 6 tiny 
cubes of sugar, add slowly 3 cups freshly made hot coffee, and 
serve in the cups. 

1653. Claret Mulled.— Add to 1 qt. claret J^ cup Mara- 
schino, 2 tbsps. orange cura^oa, 6 each of cloves, cassia buds, and 
allspice, and a stick cinnamon in bag, and let stand 12 hours. 
Heat and strain. 

1654. Cider Mulled. — Add bag of spices to 1 qt. cider, 
boil 3 minutes, and add 3 egg whites beaten thoroughly. 

1655. Sherry Mulled. — Add to 1 cup boiling water a bag 
of spices, 14. cup sugar, 3 beaten egg whites, and 2 cups hot 
sherry. 

If any of these are to be served in a punch bowl, float empty 
walnut shells filled with cotton wet in alcohol and light them, 
or soak raisins in alcohol. 



HOT BEVERAGES AND COLD DRINKS 345 

1656. Russian Tea. 

— This is the tea that is 
made for afternoon affairs 
and may be served with 
cream or with lemon. Use 
4 teasps. tea to 1 qt. of 
boihng water, let stand 2 
minutes, stir with a spoon, 
cover with cozy, and let 
stand 2 minutes. 
A good brand is a 
mixture of English 
Breakfast, For- 
mosa, and Orange 
Pekoe. If served 
with lemon, 3^ teasp. Jamaica rum or a small slice of pineapple 
cooked in rum sirup may be put in each cup. Rock candy is 
often used instead of sugar. 




COLD DRINKS 

1657. Champagne Punch, for 12 persons.— Mix in the 

bowl J^ cup each of orange cura? oa, brandy, sherry, and Mara- 
schino, 1 small unpeeled cucumber in thin slices, a large piece of 
ice. When very cold add 1 pt. club soda and 1 qt. American 
Champagne. 

1658. Champagne Fruit Punch, for 12 persons. — 

Mix J^ pineapple, 4 oranges, 2 lemons cut in thin slices, 1 cup 
white grapes skinned and seeded, 1 cup strawberries, 1 cup Mara- 
schino cherries, 3^ cup each yellow chartreuse and brandy. Add 
juice of 4 oranges and 2 lemons cooked with 2 tbsps. sugar, 
strained through cloth, and cooled, and after 3 hours add ice, 
1 qt. champagne, and 1 pt. club soda. 

1659. Cherry Julep. — Cook 1 pt. stoned red cherries in 
3^ cup sugar sirup until soft, cool, and add 3^ cup sauterne, 3^ 
cup Maraschino, and 6 sprigs of mint. Crush mint with cherries, 
fill tall glasses alternately with the mixture and very finely shaved 
ice, stir without touching the glasses with the hand until they 
are well frosted, garnish with a slice of pineapple and a sprig of 
mint dipped in powdered sugar. 



346 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1660. Chocolate, Iced. — Melt 3 squares grated chocolate 
in }/2 cup water, add ]/2 cup sugar and 4 cups water. Boil until 
clear and strain. When cold add 1 tbsp. sherry or 1 teasp. 
vanilla, and pack in ice until very cold. Serve in glasses and 
cover each with 1 tbsp. whipped cream. 

1661. Claret Cup, for 12 persons. — Rub 6 lumps of 
sugar on a lemon, add sugar and lemon sliced to 1 qt. of claret, 
add a few leaves of lemon verbena, or a few whole cloves, 3 tbsps. 
each of sherry and brandy, 2 of orange curafoa, or a sliced 
orange, 2 slices of pineapple, and a few sprigs of crushed mint. 
Stir well and let this stand an hour. Strain and add 1 pt. of 
sparkling water, and pour in a glass pitcher filled with ice. 
Fruits in season may be added if liked, also sprigs of fresh 
mint may be dipped in powdered sugar and put in the mouth of 
the pitcher. If a milder cup be desired, omit sherry and brandy. 
If fresh strawberries be used, peel them free of seeds and add just 
before serving. 

1662. Claret Punch, for 12 persons. — Boil J^ cup 
raisins, chopped, in 1 cup water 15 minutes. Strain through 
cloth, add 3 sliced lemons, 3 sliced oranges, 1 Joz. whole cloves, 
and 3^ cup sugar. Mash to extract juice and let stand 12 hours. 
Strain into bowl, add 2 lemons and 2 blood oranges in thin half 
slices, 1 qt. claret, a large piece of ice, and when ready to serve 
add 1 pt. club soda and a little later another pint. 

1663. Coffee Cup Hungarian, for 12 persons. — Add 

to 3 pts. of very strong hot coffee ^ cup sugar, and keep hot 
10 minutes. Cool, turn into glass jars, and pack in ice for 
several hours. Serve in tall glasses, without ice, with 1 tbsp. 
orange sirup in each glass, and on top a large spoonful of whipped 
cream. Light-brown caramel may be used instead of sirup. 

1664. Coffee Cup Austrian, for 12 persons. — Add to 

1 qt. of very hot coffee J^ teasp. almond extract, and keep hot 
10 minutes. Pour onto 2 beaten eggs mixed with J^ cup each 
sugar and cream, return to double boiler, and cook until spoon 
is coated; beat until cool. Pack in jar in ice and when ready 
to serve add 1 pt. club soda and fill glasses, top each with a 
spoonful of whipped cream slightly sweetened, and dust with rich 
cocoa, or grated confectioner's chocolate. The almond may be 
omitted and a little sherry added. 



HOT BEVERAGES AND COLD DRINKS 



347 



1665. Egg Nogg, Cold, for 6 persons. — Mix 3 cups 
cream with J^ cup sugar, add 3^ nutmeg grated, 6 yolks beaten 
thick, J^ cup sherry, 3^ cup brandy. Beat well and add the 
egg whites beaten stiff. 

1666. Fruit Punch, for 12 persons. — Boil 1 cup water 
with 3^ cup sugar 5 minutes. Cool and add 14, cup each diced 
pineapple, strawberries, red raspberries, bananas, peeled and 
seeded white grapes, and Maraschino cherries. Sliced peaches 
may take the place of any of the other fruits. Add 4 lemons and 
4 oranges in thin half-slices, and place on ice. When ready to 
serve add large piece of ice and 2 pts. club soda. 

1667. Ginger Ale Punch, for 12 persons. — Add 1 

bunch mint to the juice of 5 lemons and 1 cup sugar, bruise mint, 
and let stand several hours on ice. Squeeze through cloth, and 
add 1 lemon and 1 orange in thin half-sUces, and 2 pts. ginger 
ale, add ice and another pint ginger ale. Garnish with mint 
dusted with powdered sugar. 

1668. Grape Juice Punch, for 12 persons. — Cook 3^ 
cup sugar with 1 
cup water, add 
juice of 1 grape- 
fruit, 1 orange, 1 
lemon, and 34 cup 
pineapple juice. 
Cool and add 1 pt. 
grape juice, strain 
and add a few 
sprigs of bruised 
mint or bits of fresh 
fruit and 1 pt. of 
club soda. Or make 
1 qt. of strong lem- 
onade, add sliced oranges and mint leaves, 1 tumbler of grape 
jelly, or add 2 cups grape juice. 

1669. Highball Melee.— One-fourth cup each Jamaica 
rum, brandy, orange cura?oa, 3^ cup whiskey, and 2 tbsps. sugar. 
Add 1 orange and 1 lemon cut in slices, and 2 tbsps. grape-fruit 
juice. Put in a glass jar on ice for several hours. Strain and 




348 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

pour in highball glasses partly filled with ice, and fill glasses 
with carbonated water. 

1670. Lemonade, for 12 persons. — Cover 2 cups gran- 
ulated sugar with 1 cup water, cook 5 minutes, cool and strain, 
and add 1 cup each red-raspberry juice, strawberry juice, and 
pineapple sirup, juice of 8 lemons, 1 sliced small banana, 34 
cup barberry or currant juice and same of orange juice, and 1 pt. 
club soda or any carbonated water. 

1671. Melonade, for 12 persons. — Rub pulp of 2 ripe 
cantaloupes through sieve, add 1 cup sugar sirup, 1 cup orange 
juice, and turn into bowl or pitcher filled with ice. Add 1 pt. 
soda and in a few moments add another pint. 

1672. Milk Punch, Cold or Hot. — In each large tum- 
bler put 1 teasp. powdered sugar, 1 tbsp. brandy, and 34 cup 
rum, fill with iced milk beaten with 1 egg yolk and dust nutmeg 
on top, or with milk that is just scalded. 

1673. Mint Julep. — Bruise in a bowl a dozen sprigs of 
mint, 5 tbsps. sugar, 2 tbsps. brandy, and IJ^ cups whiskey. 
Have in another bowl plenty of finely shaved ice. Without 
touching glasses with the hands put in, a little at a time and 
alternately, the ice first, and then the whiskey mixture, until 
glasses are well filled. Garnish with slices of orange and pine- 
apple and sprigs of mint dipped in sugar, and as glasses are well 
covered with frost serve with straws. 

1674. Mint Julep, Virginia Style. — Steep a bunch of 
fresh mint in brandy several hours, strain, and add the brandy to 
a sugar-and-water sirup. Put 3 tbsps. of plain brandy in each 
large glass, add 2 tbsps. of the sirup, fill with pounded ice, and 
add 1 teasp. rum, and garnish with a fresh strawberry and several 
sprigs of mint. 

1675. Mint Punch, for 12 persons. — Cook 1 cup sugar 
with 2 cups water, the grated rind of lemons and oranges, 2-inch 
stick cinnamon, and 1 dozen cloves, cool and strain, add juice 
of 3 lemons and 4 oranges, 1 bunch of fresh mint leaves, 2 drops 
oil spearmint. Cover and place on ice 2 hours. Strain again, 
add 34 cup preserved ginger cut in dice, color green, and add ice 
and 1 pt. club soda. Garnish with mint dusted with sugar, and 
a bunch of Malaga grapes also dusted with sugar and placed 
on the ice. 



HOT BEVERAGES AND COLD DRINKS 349 

1676. Pineappleade, for 12 persons. — Boil 12 cups 
water with 1 cup sugar 10 minutes, cool, and add 3^ of a large 
pineapple minced, with the juice of 3 lemons. Strain and add 
ice, a few Maraschino cherries cut in halves, the other half of 
pineapple cut in slices, 1 orange sliced, and 1 qt. of carbonated 
water, or use 1 pt. of the water and 1 pt. of Moselle wine. 

1677. Rhine Wine Punch, for 12 persons. — Add to 1 

qt. of Rhine Wine J^ can pineapple cut in dice, 4 lemons, 2 
oranges, 3^ cup Jamaica rum, 2 tbsps. each Benedictine and 
Chartreuse, and 1 cup Maraschino cherries. Let stand on ice an 
hour or more, add ice and 1 pt. club soda. 

1678. Rum Punch with Fruit, for 12 persons. — 

Mix 1 pt. rum with 2 lemons and 2 oranges, sliced, ]/2 pineapple 
in thin slices, 2 cups strawberries, 1 cup sugar dissolved in 1 cup 
strong tea, and 1 cup sherry. Put on ice several hours, then turn 
into bowl, add ice and 1 pt. club soda or champagne. 

1679. Sherry Cobbler. — ^To 2 cups dry sherry add 1 tbsp. 
sugar cooked in J^ cup water, and 2 cups of shaved ice. Shake 
well and serve in glasses, and garnish each with a slice of pine- 
apple, 1 of orange, and 2 Maraschino cherries. 

1680. Silver Fizz. — Mix ^ cup gin, juice 1 large lemon, 
1 tbsp. sugar, plenty cracked ice, and slightly beaten white of 1 
egg. Shake well and turn into 6 glasses. Fill with sparkling 
water. 

1681. Strawberry Cup, for 12 persons. — Mash 1 qt. 
strawberries, add juice of 1 lemon, 2 oranges, H a pineapple, 
and 2 cups sugar cooked in 5 cups water. Place on ice several 
hours. Strain into pitcher filled with ice, add whole straw- 
berries peeled, and any fruits in season. 

1682. Tea Punch. — Cover 6 tbsps. tea (mixture in 1656) 
with 1 qt. boiling water, steep 5 minutes, strain into a bowl, and 
cool. Put in pitcher J^ cup granulated sugar or sugar sirup, 
6 tbsps. lemon juice, and }i cup rum if liked. Fill with pounded 
ice, stir, and pour in the tea. Add 1 lemon and 1 orange sliced 
in thin halves, 1 pt. of fresh strawberries, and 1 pt. carbonated 
water or American champagne. Garnish pitcher with mint 
dusted with powdered sugar. 



350 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1683. White Wine Punch, for 12 persons. — Boil 1 cup 
sugar with 1 of water, a small stick cinnamon, and 2 cloves 
5 minutes. Cool, strain, and add 1 qt. white wine, 1 cup claret, 
}4: cup brandy, 2 tbsps. Benedictine, 1 sliced orange, juice of 2 
lemons, and a few thin half-sUces of unpeeled cucumber. When 
ready to serve add a large piece of ice and 1 pt. of champagne. 



Cocktails 

1684. Bronx Cocktail. — Mix juice of ^ an orange with 
}/2 cup Italian vermouth and 1 cup Gordon gin, add ice, and 
shake well. If wanted more dry, use equal portions of Italian 
and French vermouth. A small slice of orange may be put in 
each glass. 

1685. Clover Cocktail. — Mix J4 cup lemon juice or grape- 
fruit juice, juice of 1 lime and a few sprigs of mint, with % cup 
each Grenadine (red-raspberry sirup) and Gordon gin. Shake 
well with a piece of ice, add the beaten white of 1 large or 2 
small eggs. Shake again and fill glasses. This should be quite 
pink with J^ inch of foam on top. Put a sprig of mint put 
through a Maraschino cherry in each glass. If not pink enough, 
it may be slightly tinted, when mixing, with Amaranth. This 
is delicious if made with apple-jack instead of gin. 

1686. Fruit and Rye Cocktail. — In each glass crush }4 
of a small cube of sugar rubbed on a lemon, add a Maraschino 
cherry, a slice each of orange and grape-fruit, and fill with rye 
whiskey shaken well with ice and a few sprigs of mint. Put 
sprig of mint dusted with sugar in each glass. 

1687. Gin Cocktails. — Emerson. — ^Mix 2 tbsps. each of 
lemon juice, Italian vermouth, and Maraschino. Add \}4, cups 
gin and plenty of cracked ice. Perfect. — Mix 1 teasp. orange 
bitters with 3^ cup each Italian vermouth, Gordon gin, and 
Nicholson or Plymouth gin with ice, and twist a piece of lemon 
peel into each glass to extract oil. 

1688. Grape-Fruit Cocktail.— To 1 cup of grape-fruit 
juice with a little of the pulp add 4 tbsps. Maraschino, 3 tbsps. 
sugar, and plenty of cracked ice. Or add to the juice J/^ cup 
sherry and 1 tbsp. rum, and omit sugar. Shake well with ice. 



HOT BEVERAGES AND COLD DRINKS 351 

1689. Manhattan Cocktail. — ^Mix J/^ cup Italian ver- 
mouth, 1 cup rye whiskey, 1)^ teasps. Boker's bitters, a little 
lemon peel, J^ teasp. gum sirup. Shake with plenty of ice, and 
pour into glasses containing a Maraschino cherry. 

1690. Manhattan Cocktail, Dry.— Make as above, 
omitting sirup, and serve with a small olive in each glass in- 
stead of cherry. 

1691. Martini Cocktail. — ^Mix 1 cup Gordon gin, J^ cup 
Italian vermouth, and 1 teasp. orange bitters. Rub rim of 
glass with lemon or orange zest, dip rim in powdered sugar, and 
fill with the ice-cold mixture. 

1692. Orange Cocktail .^Juice of 2 oranges and 1 lime, 
14 cup brandy, and 1 teasp. sugar, and 3^ pt. club soda. 

1693. Pineapple Cocktail. — Mix 1 cup finely shredded 
pineapple and juice with 3^ cup cura^oa and 3^ cup lemon juice. 
Add a very little sugar and 2 tbsps. best brandy. Place on ice, 
add 3^ cup soda water, fill glasses, and garnish with sprig of 
mint dusted with powdered sugar. 

Cordials 

1694. Blackberry Cordial. — Cook 4 qts. of blackberries 
until the juice can be strained from them. Put in bag and 
squeeze. To each quart of juice add 1 lb. 
loaf sugar. Add 10 drops of oil of cinna- 
mon, same of nutmeg, and 3 drops each oil 
of cloves and allspice. Simmer 10 minutes 
and add 1}^ cups brandy. Bottle and keep 
6 weeks before using. 

1695. Coffee Cordial, Hot.— Put 3 

lumps of sugar in a bowl, add 3^ cup very 
strong coffee and the same of Santa Cruz 
rum. Stir and fill cordial glasses. 

1696. Grape Cordial.— 

Boil 5 minutes 5 lbs. Worden 
grapes, 1^ lbs. sugar, and 1 qt. 
water, add }4 gal- pure spirits, 
strain, and bottle. 




352 TE^E NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1697- Orange Cordial. — ^Put IJ^ cups orange juice and 
the thin yellow rind of the oranges in a stone jar, add 2 qts. 
brandy, cover, and in 4 days add IJ^ lbs. sugar and stir well. 
Cover for a day, then strain into bottles, and use in 6 weeks. 

All of these cordials may be used for flavoring sweet dishes 
and drinks. 




RAISED WITH YEAST 

1698. White Bread, American Household. — Dissolve 
J/^ yeast cake and 1 tbsp. sugar in 3^ cup tepid water, and add 

1 cup flour. In an hour mix, in the bread mixer or bowl, 2 tbsps. 
shortening, 1 tbsp. salt, and 3 cups scalded water or half milk 
and water. When cool add the sponge and 8 to 10 cups of 
flour. Beat and knead 20 minutes, cover, and let rise until 
double in bulk. Form into loaves, using no more flour, turn 
into buttered pans, brush with butter, cover, and when double 
in bulk again prick, bake in a slow oven nearly an hour. Take 
from oven, brush with milk, and cool on a rack uncovered. This 
amount makes 3 loaves or 2 loaves and 1 doz. biscuits or rolls. 
If a richer biscuit is desired, the dough should be prepared 
especially. These bread rolls are good for breakfast. They may 
be put in the refrigerator as soon as formed, well covered, and 
given an hour's raising in the morning, then baked in hot oven 
20 minutes, or they may be baked after bread is done, cooled, and 
reheated in quick oven the next morning. The double baking 
gives them a crispy, well-done crust. 

1699. White Potato Bread. — Make as above, using 1 
cup mashed potato and the potato water instead of the boiled 
water. This makes a moist bread which retains its moisture and 
has an acceptable flavor. 

1700. French Bread. — Early in morning mix 3^ yeast 
cake, )/2 cup tepid water with flour to make dough, knead well, 
roll in a ball, cut a cross on top, and drop into bowl containing 

2 cups lukewarm water. When light add 5 or 6 cups flour, 
rubbed with 1 tbsp. shortening and 1 teasp. salt, knead 20 

353 



354 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

minutes, cover, and when light cut down; repeat 3 or 4 times. 
Form into long rolls, turn into buttered, round-bottom pans, 
with open ends. When very light dust with flour, cut slanting 
dashes across, and bake. When nearly done brush with diluted 
and slightly beaten egg white. Just before taking from oven 
sprinkle with water, and close oven to crisp crust. The real 
French Bread is baked on soapstone, in long loaves, far apart. 
Before baking round loaves they are depressed in centre with a 
broomstick. The soapstone is dusted with fine cornmeal. 

1701. Entire-Wheat Bread with White Sponge. — 

Scald 1 cup each milk and water, add 2 tbsps. each molasses and 
shortening. When tepid add 3^ yeast cake and 1 tbsp. sugar 
in 34 cup lukewarm water, and enough white flour mixed with 

1 teasp. salt to make a soft sponge. Beat 10 minutes. Let rise 

2 hours or more, add entire-wheat flour to make stiff batter, beat- 
ing well. When double in bulk put in greased tins, let double 
again, brush with warm water, and bake in slow oven 50 min- 
utes. Brush with warm milk and cool. 

7702. Entire- Wheat Bread all Entire Wheat.— 

Scald 1 cup milk and 1 cup water, and when cool add 3^ yeast 
cake and 2 tbsps. sugar dissolved in 34 cup warm water. Add 
enough entire wheat to make a stiff batter or soft dough. Beat 
well, cover, and when double in bulk turn into greased pans, let 
rise again, and brush with warm water, and bake 50 minutes 
in slow oven. 

1703. Graham Bread. — ^To 1 cup scalded milk when 
tepid add ]/z yeast cake dissolved with 1 teasp. sugar in 3^ cup 
tepid water, and white flour mixed with 1 teasp. salt and 1 tbsp. 
butter to make a soft sponge. When very light add 3 tbsps. of 
molasses, 3^ teasp. soda in ^ cup of warm milk, and graham 
flour, sifted and tossed together again, to make a stiff batter. 
Beat well and cut with a knife, and add 3^ cup white flour. When 
light make into 2 loaves and turn them into buttered pans, and 
when light again brush with warm water and bake 50 minutes. 

1704. Gluten Bread. — The gluten flour in the United 
States contains but a small portion of gluten; nevertheless it 
makes a palatable and wholesome bread. Gluten flour is made 
in Paris which is nearly all gluten. Bread for diabetics is made 
from this flour by a French baker in New York. The loaves are 



BREADS. ROLLS. BISCUITS 355 

very small and not very palatable, one loaf furnishing sufficient 
food for one day. 

The following makes an excellent bread made from American 
gluten flour. Three fourths yeast cake in J^ cup tepid water, 
2 tbsps. sugar, 2 cups scalded milk, 1 of hot water, and 2 cups 
gluten flour. Let rise, and add 4 cups gluten flour mixed with 
1 teasp. salt. Let rise, make into loaves, brush with butter 
when light, bake 20 minutes. 

1705. Nut Bread. — Make sponge of 1 cup each milk and 
water, 3^ yeast cake, J4 cup water, 2 tbsps. brown sugar, 1 tbsp. 
butter, and 1 cup white flour. When light add 2 tbsps. mo- 
lasses, 4 cups entire-wheat flour, 1 teasp. salt, and 1 cup chopped 
pecans or Brazil nuts. When light bake an hour. One half 
cup chopped dates may be added. 

1706. Oatmeal Bread. — Pour 2 cups boiling water over 

1 cup rolled oats and 1 tbsp. shortening. When nearly cold add 
M cake yeast, 1 tbsp. sugar, J^ cup water, 1 quart and 3 tbsps, 
white flour mixed with 1 teasp. salt. Beat 15 minutes, cover, 
etc. Bake nearly an hour. This may require more flour, as all 
flours do not thicken alike. 

1707. Squash Bread. — ^Mix 1 cup steamed and sifted 
squash with Ij^ cups scalded milk, add J^ yeast cake, 2 tbsps. 
sugar, 1 tbsp. butter, J^ cup water, beat well, add 1 teasp. salt 
in 4 cups flour, and enough more flour to knead. Proceed as for 
white bread. 

1708. Swedish Bread. — Add to sponge of white bread 
J^ cup of flne cornmeal cooked in 1 cup boiling water. 

Biscuits, Raised 

1709' Clover-Leaf or Ball Biscuits. — Mix J^ yeast cake, 

2 tbsps. sugar, 1 cup scalded milk, 4 tbsps. butter, J^ teasp. salt, 
and flour to make soft dough. When light make into tiny balls, 
and half-fill tiny, cup-shaped tins or put 3 together in a muffin 
ring. When very light bake and glaze with egg white. 

1710. Oat or Rye Meal Biscuit. — Cover 1 cup of oat- 
meal with IH cups scalded milk, add M yeast cake, M cup sugar, 
]4, cup water, 2 tbsps. butter, 1 teasp. salt, and white flour to 
make a soft dough. Or use rye meal instead of oatmeal Add 



356 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

white flour to knead, make very soft, when light make into small 
biscuits, roll each one in melted butter, place close together. 
When light bake 20 minutes. When done brush with egg 
white diluted with milk, dust with sugar, and return to oven 
until glazed. 

171 !• Potato Split Biscuit. — ^Press 1 cup hot steamed or 
baked potato through sieve, add 2 tbsps. each lard and butter, 
3^ yeast cake in 3^ cup tepid milk, 1 tbsp. sugar, 1 teasp. salt, 
1 yolk beaten, 1}4 cups flour, 1 egg white beaten stiff, flour to 
make soft sponge. When very light add flour and knead to a 
very soft dough. Begin these about 7 p. M., and about 10 
o'clock roll the dough about J^ inch thick, cut with flnger bis- 
cuit-cutter, place on buttered tin, brush with melted butter, 
cover with another layer of biscuits, brush with butter, and put 
in the refrigerator until morning. Let them rise in a warm place 
and bake in hot oven. 

• 1712. Prune Biscuit (Bohemian). — Roll biscuit dough 
]/2 inch thick. Cut into small, round biscuits, put in buttered 
pan, brush with butter, press a large cooked prune in centre of 
each. Let rise and bake. 

1713. Squash Biscuits. — One and a half cups cooked 
squash, J^ cup sugar, J/^ teasp. salt, J^ cup butter, J^ cup hot 
milk, ]/i yeast cake dissolved in ]/i cup tepid water, 23>^ cups of 
flour or enough to make a soft dough. Let rise, make into small, 
very thin biscuits. Put 2 together, with butter between, brush 
with butter, cover, and when very light bake. 

Coffee Cakes, Buns, and Sweet Breads 

1714. Coffee Braids. — Cream 2 tbsps. butter, add 2 of 
sugar, 3^ teasp. each salt and cinnamon, 1 cup scalded milk, cool, 
and add 3^ yeast cake in 2 tbsps. lukewarm water, and flour to 
make soft dough. Knead, cover, and when double in bulk roll 
out in a 3^-inch sheet, cut into 3^-inch strips, brush with butter, 
fasten 3 ends together, and braid the strips. Place braids far 
apart on buttered tins, let rise again, and bake. Cover with 
Confectioner's Frosting flavored with vanilla. 

17 15. Cocoanut Buns. — Scald and cool 1 cup milk, 
add }/2 yeast cake in 34 cup water, 3^ cup sugar, and flour to 



BREADS, ROLLS. BISCUITS 357 

make a soft sponge, beat well. When light add )/z cup creamed 
butter, 2 beaten yolks, % cup fresh-grated cocoanut, 3<t cup 
sUced citron, 3^ teasp. salt, and flour to make a soft dough. 
Cover, and when light again form into small finger lengths, place 
close together in greased pan. Let rise again, bake 20 min- 
utes, brown with egg white diluted in milk, dust with sugar and 
cocoanut or almonds, and return to oven until glazed. 

1716. Coffee Cake (Kuchen).— Make as above, omitting 
cocoanut and adding }/2 cup sultana raisins and J^ cup currants. 
Beat 15 minutes, keeping dough soft, roll 3^ inch thick in cakes 
to fit buttered round pans. Brush with beaten egg, pour over 
3 tbsps. butter melted with 3^ cup sugar, dust with cinnamon 
and minced nuts, sprinkle with flour. Let rise 2 hours and bake 
}/2 an hour. 

1717. Coffee Cake with Apples (Apple Kuchen). 

— ^Follow recipe for Coffee Cake, cover dough with apples 
sliced thin. When light sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon, and bits 
of butter. Let rise again and bake. Peaches or stewed and 
stoned prunes may be used instead of apples. 

1718. Coffee Cream Fingers. — ^Mix 3^ cup rich, hot 
cream with 2 tbsps. sugar, 1 egg, 3^ teasp. salt, 3^ yeast cake in 
3^ cup water. Add flour to knead, and let rise. Roll 3^ inch 
thick, and cut with finger biscuit-cutter. Place on buttered tins 
apart. When light brush with milk mixed with sugar and bake. 
When nearly done brush with beaten egg, and serve without 
butter with coffee or chocolate. 

1719. Coffee Rings. — Make dough as for Coffee Cake, us- 
ing a little more butter and sugar and without fruit. When light 
roll out in a 3^-inch sheet, spread with soft butter and fold from 
sides to make 3 layers, cut into }^-inch strips, cover, and when 
light twist, and fasten ends together making twisted rings. 
Cover, and when light bake; spread with Confectioner's Frosting. 

1720. Cross Buns. — Omit fruit from Coffee Cake mixt- 
ure, add 1 cup currants. Cover, and when light roll 3^ inch 
thick, cut with small biscuit-cutter, dip each in melted butter, 
place close together in greased pan. Score a cross on them with 
back of knife dipped in flour, brush with egg diluted with sweet- 
ened milk, dust cinnamon in the cross, and sift granulated sugar 



358 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

over them. When very light bake, and brush with melted but- 
ter as soon as they come from oven. 

1721. Coffee Twists. — Make Coffee Cake dough, roll in 
3^-inch sheet, cut in 3^-inch strips about 6 inches long, put the 
ends together and twist the sticks, dip in melted butter, then in 
3^ cup sugar mixed with 1 teasp. cinnamon and grated peel of 
1 orange. Let rise, bake, and serve with coffee in the afternoon. 

1722. Neapolitan Buns. — Make as above, adding J^ cup 
currants, 3^ cup sultana raisins, 34 cup candied cherries cut in 
dice, or any candied fruit — peaches, plums, etc. Form into tiny 
balls, roll in butter, place in pan, and when very light brush with 
egg white beaten with a little maple sirup. Serve with after- 
noon tea. 

1723. Pecan and Almond Coffee Cake Ring. — Make 
Coffee Cake dough. Let rise, roll into a thin sheet long and 
narrow, sprinkle with 3^ cup each sugar, chopped pecans, and 
almonds, roll like a jelly cake. Place in a round pan around an 
inverted straight-sided pan in centre, fasten ends. When double 
in bulk bake. Remove from pan, frost with thin glaze, and stick 
blanched almonds, pecans, and candied cherries in frosting. 

1724. Philadelphia Bun. — Add to 2 cups scalded and 
cooled milk 1 yeast cake dissolved in J^ cup water, add flour 
to make soft sponge. Let rise, add 1 teasp. salt, ^ cup each 
creamed butter and sugar, 4 beaten eggs, and flour to make soft 
dough, and let rise again, roll out in a 3^-inch sheet 12 inches 
long and 20 inches wide, sprinkle lightly with sugar, dust with 
cinnamon, and spread with 4 cups currants, scatter 1 cup seeded 
raisins over currants, and roll, the long way, 20 inches long. 
Cut with sharp knife in 7 pieces. Lay them, cut side down, in a 
buttered pan with straight sides, about 3 inches deep, 1 in the 
middle and the others around, and let rise until very light. 
Pour over 3^ cup light-brown caramel, rather warm, put in hot 
oven. After 5 minutes reduce heat and bake an hour. This 
should make a bun nearly 10 inches in diameter and 4 high. 

1725. Ragga-Muffin Buns.— Roll a Coffee Cake dough 
in a wide thin sheet, spread with hard sauce flavored with va- 
nilla, nutmeg, or cinnamon, sprinkle with 3^ cup each currants 
and chopped raisins, roll like jelly cake, cut into 2-inch pieces. 



BREADS. ROLLS. BISCUITS 359 

place in buttered tins cut side down. When very light bake, 
and glaze with sugar and water, or brush with soft butter. 

1726. Sally Lunn. — At night cream }4 cup butter, add 4 
tbsps. sugar, 2 beaten egg yolks, 1 teasp. salt, 1 cup scalded milk, 
}4 yeast cake, in 2 tbsps. warm water, 3 cups flour. Beat 15 
minutes, add egg whites, and turn into a buttered tube-pan. In 
morning bake J^ an hour. Cook }4 cup maple sugar until al- 
most candy. Turn out the Lunn onto a plate, cool slightly, 
pour sirup over it, return to oven for 2 minutes, and serve. The 
candy will form a crisp crust. 



Muffins, Raised 

1727. Cornmeal Muffins.— One cup scalded milk, J^ 
cup sugar, 3^ teasp. salt, }>i yeast cake, }4 cup tepid water, 1^ 
cups flour. When light add J^ cup melted butter and 1 cup of 
fine cornmeal. Fill buttered iron gem pans 3^ full. Put in 
slow oven with oven door open, or a very low fire until double in 
bulk. Bake, increasing heat, 20 minutes or 30 minutes. 

. 1728. English Crumpets. — Add to 1 cup lukewarm water 
J^ yeast cake, 1 teasp. sugar, 1 of salt, and 1 tbsp. melted butter. 
Add flour to make a stiff batter. Beat 15 minutes. Pour a 
little into hot greased muffin rings on warm griddle — soapstone is 
best. Cook slowly, and when brown turn and brown on other 
side. 

1729. English Muffins, cooked on Griddle. — Mix 

1 cup scalded milk, 1 cup boiling water, 1 teasp. salt, and 1 
teasp. lard in a bowl. When tepid add J^ a yeast cake, dis- 
solved in J^ cup of tepid water, with 1 teasp. of sugar, add 1 egg 
beaten separately, and add flour to make batter thick enough to 
prevent running from under the rings. The exact amount of 
flour cannot be given, as bread flour varies in its thickening 
qualities. Cover bowl, and in 2 hours it should be quite light. 
Heat a griddle until it is warm, but not hot. Grease it with 
pork, butter inside of rings, and put them on the griddle. A soap- 
stone griddle should be used and one large enough for a dozen 
rings. Fill them with the batter about J^ of an inch, put them 
over a very low fire, and let them cook until they have risen, are 
dry and full of holes (about half an hour), increasing the heat 



360 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

slowly. Let them cool, toast them, and serve them in pairs 
with butter between. 

1730. English Muffins, Baked in Oven. — To 1 cup 

scalded milk and 1 of boiled water add 3 tbsps. of butter, 4 tbsps. 
sugar, and 1 teasp. salt. Cool and add J^ of a yeast cake soft- 
ened in }/i cup of warm water, 1 egg yolk, and 3J^ cups flour. 
Then fold in the egg white beaten stiff. Beat well, cover, and let 
rise until morning. Butter muffin rings, fill half-full, let rise 
half an hour, and bake in a hot oven 20 minutes. 

1731. Hominy or Oatmeal Muffins. — To 1 cup 

scalded milk add 1 cup soft cooked hominy or oatmeal, J^ yeast 
cake, ]4: cup water, 3 tbsps. sugar, beat, and add J^ cup butter 
rubbed with 4 cups flour and 3^ teasp. salt. Beat well, when 
light proceed as for Cornmeal Muflins. 

Rolls, Raised 

1732. Breakfast Rolls. — ^When making white bread re- 
serve 2 cups of the dough. Work in 2 tbsps. melted butter and 
1 of sugar, place in buttered dish, brush with' butter, cover, and 
keep cold until ready to form into rolls. Form into round balls, 
gash tops, or roll in finger shape, brush with butter, let rise until 
very light (2 hours if possible), and bake in quick oven on tin, 
with space between if crust be liked, or place close together if 
a soft roll be preferred. Brush with hot water when taken from 
oven. 

1733. Dinner or Luncheon Rolls. — Scald 2 cups milk, 
cream J^ cup butter with same of sugar, add to milk when tepid, 
add y^ yeast cake dissolved in J^ cup of water, add a little flour, 
stir, and add 1 teasp. salt, add flour to make it soft enough to 
knead. Knead well, brush with butter, and let rise until morn- 
ing. Roll out ^ inch thick with buttered fingers and without 
any more flour. Cut with finger-shaped cutter with pointed 
ends, brush with butter and cover with another layer, brush 
with butter, and when very light bake. Brush with egg diluted 
with sweetened milk, return to oven until glazed. To make 
very light, when mixing add 1 egg beaten separately. 

1734. Crescent Rolls. — Add 3 beaten eggs to Dinner 
Roll mixture, roll into sheet 3^ inch thick or less, cut into 



BREADS. ROLLS, filSCUITS 361 

squares, and then into triangles. Roll and turn ends to form cres- 
cents, place on buttered tins, cover, and when very light brush 
with sweetened egg white and bake 15 minutes in hot oven. Or, 
as soon as baked, brush with a starch glaze, 3^ teasp. cornstarch, 
and 1 cup boiling sweetened water. 

1735. French Rolls. — Make dough as in French Bread, 
form into finger-length rolls, brush with butter, and place far 
apart on greased tin dusted with fine cornmeal. Let rise until 
extremely light, and bake in quick oven. Just before they are 
done sprinkle with a few drops of warm water, and return to 
oven to crisp the crust. If made in balls these are Vienna rolls. 

1736. Parker House Rolls. — Scald Ij^ cups milk, cool, 
and add 3^ yeast cake, 2 tbsps. sugar, and 3^ cup water. Beat, 
and add 4 cups flour rubbed with 2 tbsps. butter and 3^ teasp. 
salt, add more flour to knead. When light roll out thin, with a 
light touch, spread with melted butter, fold over, roll again, and 
cut in rounds, spread with melted butter, press centre, fold into 
half rounds, pinch edges, brush with butter, and let rise. Bake 
15 minutes, brush with egg diluted with sweetened milk, and 
return to oven until brown. 

1737. Surprise Rolls. — Form Dinner or Luncheon R,ill 
dough in balls. Press in a hole at top, insert a spoonful of jelly 
or jam, close, and place far apart on greased tin sheet. Bake in 
quick oven, and glaze with egg white just before they are done , 

QUICK-RAISING BISCUITS, BREADS, 
MUFFINS, ETC. 

Biscuits 

1738. Baking-Powder Biscuits.— Sift 3 times 2 cups 
pastry flour, 3^ teasp. salt. 4 teasps. baking-powder. Work in 
1 teasp. butter, 1 tbsp. lard, add milk to make soft dough — about 
3^ cup. Roll lightly % inch thick, cut, and bake 20 minutes. 
These may be kept in ice-box several hours before baking, if 
kept very cold, and put in a hot oven. 

1739. Baking-Powder Biscuit Buns.— Make as above, 
roll }4 inch thick, spread with soft butter, sprinkle with brown 
sugar, dust with cinnamon, and roll. Cut roll into Ij^ inch 



362 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

lengths, pinch one end together, place in buttered pan on pinched 
ends, and bake 20 minutes. Currants may be rolled in if liked. 

1740. Beaten Biscuit. — Mix 1 qt. flour, 1 teasp. salt, 1 
tbsp. each butter and lard. Make into stiff dough with milk and 
water. Turn on a floured board, beat with a mallet until dough 
pops and blisters — about 50 minutes. Roll and cut, and bake. 

1741. Cornmeal Biscuits. — Sift Ij^ cups white flour, 
^ cup white cornmeal, 3^ teasp. salt, 4 teasps. baking-powder, 
and 1 tbsp. sugar. Chop in 2 tbsps. lard or butter, add 1 
beaten egg to a scant J^ cup milk, and add to flour and make a 
soft dough. Roll ]/i inch thick, cut in rounds, butter half, turn 
over, pinch round edge and bake. 

1742. Cream Biscuits. — Make baking-powder biscuit 
without shortening, using rich cream instead of milk, and add 
1 or 2 eggs. Roll them very thin, and put two together with 
butter spread between. When done split them and spread with 
cheese or marmalade, and serve with salad or afternoon tea. 

1743. Egg Biscuits. — ^Mix 2 cups pastry flour, 2 teasps. 
baking-powder, J^ teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. butter, J/^'cup cream mixed 
with 1 egg, and an extra yolk well-beaten. Roll 3^ inch thick, 
brush with egg white, cut size of silver dollar, bake, split, butter, 
put together, and serve at afternoon tea. They may be spread 
with marmalade or jam. 

1744. Entire- Wheat Biscuits. — Mix 3 cups entire-wheat 
flour with 3 teasps. baking-powder, }/^ teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. sugar, 
1 tbsp. butter, and rich milk to make dough to roll. Cut in 
rounds and bake. 

1745. Sour-Cream Biscuit. — Mix 2 cups flour, 2 teasps. 
baking-powder, 3^ teasp. soda, J^ teasp. salt, with 1 tbsp. lard. 
Add sour cream with fork until stiff enough to roll into small 
biscuit. 

Quick Breads 

1746. Boston Brown Bread. — Sift 2 cups graham flour, 
toss together again, add 1 cup fine cornmeal^ ^ teasp. salt, }/^ 
cup molasses, and IJ^ teasps. soda in 1 cup sour milk. Add 14 
cup each seeded raisins and pecans dredged with flour. Turn. 



BREADS, ROLLS. BISCUITS 363 

into a mould garnished with whole raisins or prunes plumped 
In hot water, cover well, and steam 2 hours, and bake 3^ an hour. 

1747. Cornmeal Batter Bread. — Pour }/2 cup cornmeal 
in 2 cups boiling water, and add 1 teasp. salt and 1 beaten yolk. 
Cook a moment, take from fire, add the white beaten stiff. 
Turn into buttered shallow pan and bake 40 minutes. Serve 
hot. 

1748. Cornmeal Spoon Bread. — Scald J^ cup cornmeal 
with \]/2 cups boiling water, add 2 beaten eggs, J^ teasp. salt, 
and }/2 teasp. soda dissolved in IJ^ cups of buttermilk or sour 
milk, then add 1 teasp. melted butter and bake in slow oven 
2 hours or more in a deep earthen dish, and serve it with a spoon. 

1749. Graham Fruit Bread. — Sift 2 cups graham flour 
and toss together again, add 1 cup white flour, }4 teasp. salt, 
1 tbsp. brown sugar, 3^ cup pecans, J^ cup each seeded raisins 
and dates cut in small pieces, 2 tbsps. molasses, 1 teasp. soda 
dissolved in a little hot water, and 1 cup sour milk. Bake 
nearly an hour. 

1750. Nut Bread for Afternoon Tea. — Beat 1 egg, add 
J^ cup sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour sifted with 3 teasps. bak- 
ing-powder, }/2 teasp. salt, 1 cup chopped English walnut meats. 
Bake in buttered bread pan. When cold cut thin and spread 
with butter, and serve for afternoon tea. 



Gems, Popovers, and Puffs 

One measure of flour to one of liquid. 

These are all thin batters, well beaten, turned into hissing- 
hot greased gem irons, filling them half -full, and baked in hot 
oven 30 minutes, reducing heat after the first 15 minutes. 

1751. Egg Gems. — Beat 2 yolks, add 2 cups flour, 4 
teasps. baking-powder, and 2 cups water, beat, and add beaten 
whites and p2 teasp. salt. Turn into hot greased gem irons 
and bake. 

1752. Gluten Gems. — Mix 1 cup milk with 1 cup gluten 
flour sifted with 1 teasp. baking-powder and a little salt. Beat 
15 minutes. 



364 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1753. Graham Gems. — Cream 3 tbsps. butter with 2 of 
sugar, add 1 beaten egg and alternately 3 cups of milk and 1 cup 
each of pastry and graham flour sifted with 3J^ teasps. baking- 
powder and }/2 teasp. salt. 

1754. Green Corn Gems. — Score and scrape green corn, 
and to 1 cup add 3^ cup milk, 2 beaten yolks, 5€ teasp. salt, 2 
teasps. baking-powder sifted with 13^ cups flour, and the 2 
whites beaten stiff. Beat well and bake. 

1755. Hominy Puffs. — Boil 2 tbsps. fine hominy in \]/2 
cups milk and 3^ teasp. salt, cool, add slowly 2 beaten yolks, 2 
teasps. melted butter, 1 teasp. sugar, and the beaten whites and 
sifted flour to make soft batter. Beat well. 

1756. Oatmeal Gems. — ^Pour J^ cup boiling water over 

1 cup cooked oatmeal and let stand over night, add 3^ cup flour 
sifted with 1 teasp. baking-powder and 34 teasp. salt, with 
enough more flour to make a soft batter. Beat well. 

1757. Popovers. — Sift ^ teasp. salt with 134 cups bread 
flour, add half of 134 cups milk, and beat with Dover beater until 
smooth. Beat 2 eggs very light, add to remainder of milk, add 
to flour mixture, with 1 teasp. melted butter, and beat 5 min- 
utes. Turn into very hot and well-buttered gem irons, and bake 
30 or 35 minutes. 

1758. Entire- Wheat Popovers. — Make as above, using 
half entire wheat and half flour and an extra egg, as entire wheat 
requires more raising. 

Griddle Cakes and Scones 

These are thin batters (pancakes), or thicker batters 
(scones), baked on a hot griddle. Griddles that do not re- 
quire greasing^aluminum or soapstone — are best. 

1759. Pancakes. — One measure of flour to 1 of liquid. 

1760. Bread Pancakes. — Soak 13^ cups soft bread crumbs 
in 2 cups warm milk 3^ an hour, add 2 beaten yolks, 1 tbsp. 
melted butter, 14 teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. maple sirup, sugar, or 
molasses, 1 cup flour sifted with 2 teasps. baking-powder, and 

2 beaten whites. Beat well. 



BREADS, ROLLS, BISCUITS 365 

1761. Buckwheat Pancakes. — Soak J^ cup soft bread in 
2 cups scalded milk 30 minutes, add J^ yeast cake mashed with 
1 tbsp. sugar, and dissolved in J^ cup water, and enough buck- 
wheat to make a thin batter. Beat well, cover, and place in the 
warm to rise. In the morning stir well, put 3^ cup of the mixt- 
ure in glass jar, and place where it will keep fresh, but not too 
cold. Add to batter J^ teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. molasses, and 34 
teasp. soda in 2 tbsps. warm water, and bake. If not quite sweet, 
add more soda. At night put 1 cup scalded milk and 1 of boiled 
water in bowl. When cool add the J^ cup saved from the morn- 
ing and buckwheat flour to make soft batter. Let rise, and in 
morning proceed as before. A good brand of self-raising flour 
makes an excellent substitute. 

1762. Cornmeal Pancakes. — Pour J/^ cup cornmealinto 
134 cups boiling water, cook 2 minutes and cool, add 1 beaten 
yolk, 1 cup flour sifted with J^ teasp. salt, 2 teasps. baking- 
powder, 1 tbsp. sugar or maple sirup, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 3^ 
cup milk, and egg white beaten stiff. Mix, adding more flour 
if necessary, and bake. Or use less flour and add 3^ cup boiled 
rice. 

1 763. Entire- Wheat Pancakes. — Mix 1 cup entire wheat 
with 3^ flour, 3^ teasp. salt, 2 teasps. baking-powder, 1 teasp. 
sugar, 1 teasp. melted butter, 1 beaten yolk beaten with 1 cup 
milk, and egg white beaten stiff. 

1764. French Pancakes (Paris Crepes). — ^Mix 1 cup 
milk, 3 egg yolks beaten, 3^ teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. oh've oil, 1 tbsp. 
brandy, 1 tbsp. orange juice, flour to make batter, about 2 cups, 
and whites beaten stiff. Beat well, and let stand 3 hours. Ba,ke 
in large cakes on griddle, sprinkle with powdered sugar and cin- 
namon, and roll. 

1765. Rice Cakes. — Mix 1 cup hot boiled rice, 1 cup flour 
sifted with 2 teasps. baking-powder, 3^ teasp. salt, 1 teasp. 
sugar, 1 teasp. butter, 1 beaten yolk, 1 cup milk, and the egg 
white beaten stiff. 

1766. Shrove Tuesday Pancakes.— Mix 2 cups scalded 
milk, 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tbsp. sugar, and 1 teasp. salt, cool, and 
add yi yeast cake in 2 tbsps. warm water, add 3 cups flour, and 
beat well. Let rise 3 hours, bake on griddle, score with back 



366 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

of knife making 4 quarters, and serve with butter and maple 
sugar softened with cream and flavored with cinnamon. 

1767. Sour Milk Pancakes. — Mix 2 cups thick, rich 
sour milk with 2 cups pastry flour. Let stand over night. In 
morning add 1 tbsp. melted butter, 1 tbsp. sugar or sirup, 1 
beaten yolk, 3^ teasp. salt, and Ij^ teasps. soda in 1 tbsp. warm 
water, add egg white, and bake on griddle at once. 

1768. Wheat-Flour Pancakes. — Beat 1 yolk, add 1 tbsp. 
each melted butter and sugar or sirup, J^ teasp. salt, 1 cup milk, 
1 tbsp. cornmeal sifted into J^ cup boiling water, and 1 cup flour 
sifted with 2 teasps. baking-powder. Beat well, add the beaten 
white, and more flour if necessary. 

1769. Stack Cakes. — These are wheat-flour pancakes, 
made as large as a dessert plate, spread with butter and shaved 
maple sugar, and stacked one upon another 4 or 5 deep, and cut 
in wedge-shaped pieces when served. They are served hot at 
a luncheon or supper. 

1770. Pancake Sauce. — Shave J^ cup maple sugar, add a 
grating of nutmeg and enough cream to soften. 

Scones 

1771. Buttermilk Scones.— To recipe for Sour Milk 
Pancakes add enough flour to make a dough that will roll, using 
but 1 egg and 1 cup buttermilk, and much more butter if butter- 
milk is not very rich. Roll and cut in J/^-inch biscuit, and bake 
on slow griddle until brown on both sides. 

1772. Cornmeal Scones. — Scald 1 cup white cornmeal 
with 1 cup boiling water, add 1 tbsp. sugar, 3 of butter, J^ teasp. 
salt, and enough milk to make a thick batter. Drop from spoon 
onto hot griddle, and bake on both sides. 

1773. Oatmeal Scones. — To 2 cups Scotch oatmeal, 
cooked, add 2 tbsps. melted butter, 1 tbsp. sugar, J^ teasp. salt, 
1 teasp. baking-powder, with flour to make stiff enough to roll, 
roll very thin, cut into biscuits, bake one side on griddle and 
toast other side, spread with butter. 

1774. Sour Cream Scones. — Mix 2 cups flour, }/^ teasp. 
salt, 2 tbsps. butter, and 1 of sugar, add 1 cup sour cream mixed 



BREADS. ROLLS, BISCUITS 367 

with H teasp. soda, and beat well. Let stand a few moments, 
add more flour, if necessary, to roll, cut biscuits J^ inch thick, 
and bake on hot griddle until brown on both sides. 



Muffins 

1775. Muffins.— Two measures of flour to 1 of liquid. 
Bake in hot oven in greased muffin pans 20 or 25 minutes. 

1776. Bran Muffins.— Mix 1 cup bran with J^ cup flour 
and }/2 teasp. salt, add 1 tbsp. molasses, 1 tbsp. butter, and J^ 
teasp. soda in ^. cup sour milk. Beat well. If to be made with 
sweet milk use 2 teasps. baking-powder in flour and omit soda; 

1 beaten egg may be added. 

7777. Bread Muffins.— Mix 1 cup soft crumbs with 1 cup 
hot milk, )/2 teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. butter, 1 teasp. sugar, 1 beaten 
yolk, 13^ cups flour, and the beaten white. 

1778. Cornmeal Muffins — ^Johnny Cake. — Cream 3 
tbsps. butter, add 2 of sugar, 1 beaten yolk, 1 cup milk, 1 cup 
each flour and cornmeal sifted with 4 teasps. baking-powder and 
}/^ teasp. salt, add beaten white, bake in muffin pans or in shal- 
low pan, and cut in squares. When baked in the pan it is 
Johnny Cake. 

1779. Cornmeal and White-Flour Muffins.— Make 

as above, using more flour and less cornmeal, and 2 eggs. 

1780. Cornmeal and Rice Muffins. — ^Pour J^ cup 
white cornmeal into Ij^ cups boiling water. When nearly cool 
add 1 cup boiled rice, 1 cup flour sifted with 3 teasps. baking- 
powder, 2 tbsps. each sugar and melted butter, 2 eggs beaten 
separately. Beat well, bake in greased mufiin pans 20 minutes. 

1781. Cream Muffins. — Sift 2 cups flour with 4 teasps. 
baking-powder, 3 tbsps. sugar, and }/2 teasp. salt, add 1 tbsp. 
melted butter, 1 beaten yolk, and 1 cup cream, beat, and add 
beaten white. 

/ 782. Date Muffins. — Beat with Dover beater 1 cup milk, 

2 egg yolks, J^ teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. butter, and add 2 cups flour 
sifted with 3 teasps. baking-powder, and fold in the 2 whites 
beaten stiff. Add 1 cup dates, stoned and cut in small pieces 



368 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

and dredged with flour, and bake in buttered muffin pans 20 
minutes. 

1783. Entire- Wheat or Graham Muffins.— Sift 1 cup 

entire-wheat or graham flour with 1 cup flour, 4 teasps. baking- 
powder, and }/2 teasp. salt. Sift twice. The bran from graham 
may be mixed with flour after sifting. Cream 2 tbsps. butter, 
add 2 tbsps. sugar, and 1 well-beaten yolk, add the flour alter- 
nately with 1 cup milk, beat well, fold in stiff egg white, bake 
25 minutes. 

1784. Gluten Muffins. — Sift 1 cup gluten flour with 3 
teasps. baking-powder and J^ teasp. salt, 1 teasp. sugar, add 2 
beaten yolks, enough white flour to make batter right consis- 
tency, and the beaten whites. 

1785. Huckleberry Muffins. — Beat 1 yolk, add 1 tbsp. 
melted butter, 2 tbsps. sugar, ^ cup milk, 2 cups flour sifted 
with 3 teasps. baking-powder, J^ teasp. salt, 1 cup huckleberries 
or blueberries. Add beaten white,- mix well. Bake 30 minutes. 

1786. Oatmeal Muffins. — To 1 cup cooked oatmeal add 
}/2 cup milk, 2 beaten yolks, 1 tbsp. sugar, 2 tbsps. melted butter, 
1^ cups flour sifted with 4 teasps. baking-powder and }/^ teasp. 
salt. Beat well, add beaten egg white, and bake 3^ an hour. 

Wafers and Crisps 

1787. Cream of Wheat or Hominy Crisps. — ^Mix 1 
cup cooked cereal with 1 large egg or 2 small ones, add 1 tbsp. 
butter or lard, ^ teasp. salt, and beat well. Add 1 cup milk and 
2 cups of the raw cereal. Spread 3^ inch thick in shallow 
greased pan. Bake ]/2 an hour, cut in squares, and serve hot. 

1788. Graham Wafers. — Mix 2 cups graham flour, 1 
teasp. salt, and about 1 cup cold water, enough to roll very thin, 
cut in rounds, put a layer in greased pan, brush with melted 
butter, cover with another layer, pinch edges together, brush 
with butter, prick through both layers with fork, and bake 
20 minutes in hot oven, split, and spread with butter at table. 

1789. Oat-Flake Wafers.— Mix 2 cups of oat flakes, 1 
cup of white flour, 2 tbsps. of sugar, and 3^ teasp. of salt. 
Rub into this with the fingers J^ cup of shortening, dissolve J^ 



BREADS, ROLLS, BISCUITS 369 

teasp. soda in J^ cup of warm water, and with buttered fingers 
press and pull out till very thin, cut and spread on buttered 
pans, and bake till brown. 

Waffles 

1790. American Waffles. — Beat 3 egg yolks, 2 cups 
rich milk, 1 tbsp. melted butter, 2J^ cups flour sifted with 2 
teasps. baking-powder and 3^ teasp. salt. Beat well, add beaten 
whites, and half-fill well-greased hot waffle irons, close, bake 3 
minutes on each side, and serve with maple sirup, sugar and 
cinnamon, or with Pancake Sauce. These are quite as good, 
even better, if made without baking-powder, beaten a long time, 
and allowed to stand an hour, and beaten again before adding 
egg whites. 

1791. Cornmeal Waffles. — To serve with Fried Chicken. 
Pour 34 cup cornmeal in ^ cup boiling-water, and cook J^ an 
hour, add ^ cup milk, 2 beaten yolks, 1 tbsp. butter, 1}/^ cups 
flour sifted with 2 teasps. baking-powder, 3^ teasp. salt, beat 
well, and add beaten whites. 

1792. Green-Corn Waffles. — Add to American Waffles 
]/2 cup green corn grated, and a little more flour. 

1793. Hominy Waffles. — Add to American Waffle mixt- 
lU'e 1 cup freshly boiled hominy, and a little less flour. 

1794. Rice Waffles. — ^To American Waffle mixture add 
J^ cup boiled rice or rice flour, and less flour. 




For information concerning the making of jellies 
"Principles of Jelly-making," published by the Home Eco- 
nomic Department of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., 
is recommended. 

1795- Apple Mint Jelly. — Stew apples or crab-apples 
with very little water, press through fine sieve. Pour 1 cup 
boiling water on 1 cup well-washed mint leaves, let stand an 
hour or more, and press through a cloth. Add 1 tbsp. mint juice 
to each cup apple juice, boil 5 minutes, add sugar to sweeten to 
taste, boil until it jellies, and pour through cheese-cloth without 
pressing or squeezing. If not quite green enough, add a little 
coloring before straining. Apples may be cooked, strained, and 
juice canned and made into any fruit jelly when fruits are in 
season. 

1796. Apples Brandied. — ^Make sirup as for Brandied 
Peaches (1809), add 1 teasp. lemon juice to each 2 cups sirup, 
and cook in the sirup peeled and cored pound-sweet apple 
quarters. When nearly tender add as much white brandy as 
sirup, and red coloring liquid to sirup. Cook until just tender, 
pack in jars, and pour over the hot sirup. Use to serve with 
ice-creams or cold puddings. 

1797. Black-Currant Jelly. — Wash and stem the cur- 
rants, put them into glass jars, cover, and steam in a kettle of 
boiling water until they are soft and juicy. Press them through 
bag, proceed as for currant jelly. 

1798. Carrot Conserve. — Parboil and skin fresh young 
French carrots, cut in lengthwise slices, then in 3^-inch strips 

370 



PRESERVES AND PICKLES 371 

and in 2-inch lengths. Cover with cold water, add a few sticks 
of cinnamon, or 2 or 3 drops oil of cinnamon, and boil until 
nearly tender. Turn into a sieve, and let drain 24 hours. Make 
a sirup of 2 cups water, 2 cups sugar, a small piece of ginger- 
root and the yellow rind of 1 lemon, boil until quite thick, color 
it red, and strain. Add carrots, and cook until very tender, 
turn into jars, and use with ice-cream or puddings. Spices and 
vinegar may be added when cooking and used for sweet pickle. 

1799- Cherries Canned without Cooking. — Stone 
large red cherries, put them in a sieve in a large kettle, reserving 
all juice, pour boiling water over them into the kettle, but not 
enough to reach the cherries, cover with several towels, and boil 
water 10 minutes to steam the fruit. Make sirup of 1 lb. sugar 
and 5 drops lemon juice to 1 cup water, for each quart of fruit 
when in cans, add cherry juice, and boil 10 minutes. Put fruit 
in hot jars alternately with sirup. 

1800- Cherry Conserve. — Stone 7 lbs. ripe, red cherries 
and cook them 15 minutes. Add 5 lbs. hot, granulated sugar, 
}/2 lb. seeded raisins or sultanas, juice and pulp 6 oranges, and 
cook until thick as marmalade. Turn into glass jars and serve 
with meats. 

1801. Chestnuts Preserved. — Slit chestnuts, large 
French or ItaUan, boil a moment, drain and remove shells, and 
blanch. Cover with cold water and juice of 1 lemon for each 2 
cups nuts, and let stand over night, drain, cover with boiling 
water, and cook until tender. Drain again, and cover with sirup, 
1 lb. of sugar and 1% cups of water for each pound of boiled 
nuts, add a split vanilla bean, 1 tbsp. sherry or brandy, and 
keep hot, without boiling, 2 hours. Drain sirup from nuts and 
cook it until reduced one-half, pour over nuts and keep hot 1 
hour, drain, and cool sirup until reduced to thick sirup, put 
nuts in cans, and pour over sirup. Serve with ice-cream and 
cold pudding. 

1802. Cranberry or Currant Conserve. — Mix 3 lbs. 
chopped cranberries or currants pressed through a coarse sieve, 
add 1 lb. of chopped and seeded raisins, juice, pulp, and grated 
yellow peel of 2 oranges, and 3 lbs. sugar. Boil until it jellies, 
and turn into glass jars. 



372 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1803. Currant and Red Raspberry Jelly. — Select not 
over-ripe currants, wash carefully; add to 12 qts. currants 4 of 
red raspberries, heat just enough to mash, fill jelly bag, and let 
drain, but do not squeeze. For 8 pts. juice use 6 lbs. sugar. 
Boil juice, and heat sugar. When juice is boiling add sugar, 
boil until a little of it jellies as it drops from the spoon, skim, and 
pour into glasses. If a mint flavor is desired, put 1 sprig in 
each glass. 

1804. Grape Marmalade. — Wash and stem grapes, re- 
move skins, heat pulp, press through sieve, add skins, measure, 
and put on fire. To 4 cups fruit add 3 cups very hot sugar — it 
will be better if it slightly caramels — and simmer 20 minutes. 
If grapes are very ripe, add a little lemon juice. If some of the 
grapes are not ripe, the jelly will be better. 

1805. Green-Gage Jam. — Wash, but do not peel 6 lbs. 
of plums, remove stones, and to each pound of fruit weigh ^ lb. of 
sugar. Dissolve sugar over fire in a very little water, }/^ cup 
to each pound, boil, and skim. Add fruit, and cook quickly 
until it jellies. This is the English method of making jam. 

1806. Green-Grape Mint Jelly. — Wash unripe, green 
grapes, put them in a preserving-kettle, and heat until they can 
be crushed; add to 4 lbs. grapes 1 bunch fresh, well-washed mint 
bruised in a bowl, and cook until grapes are soft enough to 
drain. Turn into jelly bag, let drip, and heat. To each pint 
of juice use 14 ounces of hot sugar, and continue as for Currant 
Jelly (1803). Before filling glasses color mint green with col- 
oring paste or liquid. A little may be left without coloring, 
and it can be put in glasses in layers alternately with the green 
jelly. A little elderberry juice improves flavor. 

1807. Orange or Grape-Fruit Marmalade, with Al- 
monds. — Clean and slice 6 oranges or grape-fruit and 3 
lemons very thin, and blanch and shred 1 lb. almonds. Cover 
fruit with 10 cups cold water and simmer uncovered an hour. 
Dissolve &]/2 lbs. sugar in a little of the liquid from preserving 
kettle, cover, and when boiling return it to kettle, boil 20 min- 
utes, add almonds, and turn into glasses. This will fill about 
15 cups. 

1808. Orange Preserve Tunisian. — Slice large, clean 
oranges 34 inch thick, and cover them with cold water, 1 pt. 



PRESERVES AND PICKLES 373 

water for each orange, and let them stand 24 to 48 hours. Cook 
in the water until tender but not soft, add 1 lb. of sugar and the 
juice of 1 lemon for each orange, and cook until transparent, 
put in cans in layers of slices, and pour in the sirup. Minced 
or shredded almonds or pistachio nuts could be sprinkled over 
each layer. 

1809. Peaches Brandied with Cherries.— Brandy large 

white or red cherries after the following method, when in season, 
and use them to fill the peaches. Weigh large freestone peaches 
before peeling them. To 2 lbs. of fruit use 1 lb. sugar, with water 
enough to melt sugar. Add juice of cherries to sirup. Peel 
peaches, cut in halves, remove stones, fill with the cherries, put 
together, and wrap each one in cheese-cloth, and tie well with 
strong thread. Cook peaches in the sirup until just tender, 
skim them out on a sieve, returning all juice to sirup. When 
sirup is boiling again add an equal amount of white brandy, fill 
jars with peaches, pour in hot sirup, leaving room at top for 
1 tbsp. boiling water. Seal and use to serve with ice-cream and 
puddings. When serving remove cloth with care. 

1810. Peaches or Pears canned without cooking. — 

Peel peaches or pears and cut them in two, reject stones, and weigh 
them. For each pound make a sirup of ^ lb. of sugar and 1 cup 
water, and 5 drops lemon juice to each quart of sirup. Keep 
sirup to boiling-point 10 minutes. Put peaches in large sieve 
in a large tin pie plate, place over large kettle on back of stove, 
pour boiling water over the peaches, tipping sieve until water 
from pie pan runs through, cover with several towels, and let 
water boil gently 10 minutes to steam the fruit. Put peaches 
in sterilized cans, pour on hot sirup, to which add any juice there 
may be in pie tin, fiU nearly to top, add 1 tbsp. brandy, and seal. 
These are almost like fresh peaches. 

1811. Peach Marmalade. — Rub peaches with cloth, but 
do not peel, cut in two, remove stones, crack them, and blanch 
kernels. For each pound of peaches, without stones, add ^ lb. 
sugar, heat slowly, and boil 20 minutes, adding a little lemon 
juice, add the kernels, shredded, boil 5 minutes, and fill jars. 

1812. Peaches Stuffed and Pickled. — For 7 lbs. peaches 
make sirup of 3 lbs. brown sugar and 2 cups vinegar. Add 
strips of lemon peel, stick cinnamon, cloves, and cassia buds in 



374 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

a bag. Peel freestone peaches, remove stones, fill with a mixture 
of seeded raisins, citron, minced almonds, chopped Maraschino 
cherries and candied orange peel, put together, tie in a cheese- 
cloth with strong thread. Pour hot sirup over fruit and let 
stand until the next day. Repeat the following morning. The 
third morning put fruit in cans, cook down sirup, and fill. Or 
stuff peaches with grated horseradish instead of the fruit. 

1813. Pineapple Pickled. — Cut pineapple in slices and 
quarters, cover with hot sirup for 3 mornings, fill jars, add 2 
tbsps. brandy to each jar, and seal. 

SiEUP. — Two lbs. granulated sugar with 2 cups vinegar and 
cassia buds, very few cloves, and sliced orange peel and stick 
cinnamon in a bag. Color sirup red. 

1814. Pineapple and Strawberries Preserved, with- 
out cooking. — Peel and cut pineapple in small cubes, add to 
each pound IJ^ lbs. of granulated sugar, turn it into a stone 
crock, stir every day for three days, then pack it into cold, 
sterilized glass jars, and seal. Strawberries may be prepared in 
the same way and are delicious mixed with the pineapple. 

1815. Tomatoes Pickled Whole. — ^Peel and weigh toma- 
toes of uniform size and not over ripe. Lay them carefully in a 
jar and cover with cold vinegar 24 hours. Take up tomatoes 
carefully and lay them on a plate in kettle, add to half the vine- 
gar sugar half the weight of the tomatoes, heat, add a bag of 
whole spices, pour gently over tomatoes, and place on low fire to 
keep hot, but do not boil them, for 4 hours. Pack them care- 
fully in the crock and cover. Delicious with meats. 

1816. Yellow Egg Tomato Sweets. — In the morning 
scald quickly and peel 6 lbs. of the tomatoes, cover with 1 qt. 
water mixed with 1 pt. vinegar and 1 tbsp. salt, and let stand 
until night. Drain and to each pound of tomatoes use ^ lb. 
sugar, pack in layers, and let stand until morning. Pour off 
sirup, add small, thin slices of lemon, a few pieces of ginger-root, 
3 or 4 drops of oil of cinnamon, and 2 of oil of cloves. Boil 
until nearly thick, add tomatoes, and cook until they are trans- 
parent, pack in small cans, and use to serve as a relish with 
chicken or meat; add a little brandy to top of can. 

1817. Sweet Red Pepper Pickled. — Remove seeds from 
6 or 8 peppers, and cut them into shreds the size of a match. 



PRESERVES AND PICKLES 375 

Pack them in a glass jar. Cook 3 cups of light-brown sugar with 

1 cup vinegar and J^ teasp. salt until thick. Cool, and when 
lukewarm pour over the peppers and seal the jars. Use as a 
garnish for salads. If too sweet, rinse them in cold water be- 
fore using. 

1818. Chilli Sauce. — Boil 1 hour 4 qts. of ripe tomatoes 
chopped, 4 medium-sized onions chopped, 2 cups vinegar, 3 tbsps. 
sugar, 3 tbsps. salt, 2 teasps. cinnamon, and 1 chopped red pep- 
per. Turn into small cans and seal. 

1819. Cucumber Catsup Uncooked. — Peel and chop 
6 green cucumbers, table size, add 1 minced green pepper, 2 
small onions, minced. Drain and add salt, pepper, and vinegar 
to suit taste. 

1820. Green Tomato Sweet Pickle. — Slice thin 1 peck 
of green tomatoes, and cover them with 1 gallon of water mixed 
with 1 cup of salt. The next day drain thoroughly. Heat 2 
qts. of vinegar with 3 cups of brown sugar, 1 teasp. of alum, and 

2 tbsps. of mixed spices in a bag. With a skimmer plunge a 
few of the tomatoes at a time into this boiling vinegar and put 
them immediately into hot glass jars. Fill with the boiling 
liquid and seal. 

1821. Mangoes or Stuffed Green Peppers. — Cut tops 
from peppers, remove seeds, and cover both tops and peppers 
with a brine strong enough to hold up an egg, and leave them 

3 or 4 days. Drain and stuff them with shaved cabbage sea- 
soned with mustard seed, celery seed, chopped onion, grated 
horseradish, a suspicion of mace, and a little brown sugar, all 
moistened with salad oil. Tie on tops, pack in a crock, and 
pour over them boiling tarragon vinegar. Seal, and do not use 
under two months. 

1822. Mixed Pickle. — Place in separate dishes 1 head 
of cabbage shaved fine, 1 qt. small onions sliced thin, 4 green 
peppers shredded fine, 12 small cucumbers sliced thin without 
peeling, and 1 small cauliflower. Sprinkle with salt, and cover 
with water, and let stand 2 hours. Drain, and put in kettle in 
alternate layers, add 1 lb. brown sugar, 2 tbsps. celery seed, 1 
teasp. ground mustard, 1 tbsp. tumeric, and 1 tbsp. salad oil. 
Nearly cover with vinegar and simmer gently 2 hours. Use 
for a table relish and also for sandwiches. 



376 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1823. Pepper Hash. — Chop fine 12 green peppers, 12 
sweet red peppers, 12 very small onions, add 3 tbsps. salt, scald 
10 minutes, drain, and add 1 qt. vinegar, and 1 cup brown sugar. 
Let come to a boil and can. Use for sandwiches. 

1824. Pickled Oysters. — These are an old-fashioned relish 
that may now be used as a hors d'ceuvre, or they may be served 
as a relish with sandwiches or salad at suppers. Wash 50 oysters, 
strain the liquor, and boil until edges curl, skim them, and cool 
quickly. Boil the liquor 5 minutes, with 1 cup weak vinegar, 
add 4 whole cloves, allspice, peppercorns, blade of mace, and 1 
teasp. salt, cool, and pour over the oysters, and add 1 lemon 
sliced thin, cover, and keep in a cold jar. 

1825. Tomato Catsup. — ^Wash not over-ripe tomatoes, 
cut them in pieces, and heat until soft enough to press through 
a sieve. Measure the pulp and juice, and cook until it begins 
to thicken. To 4 qts. add 2 cups vinegar, 3 green peppers, and 
1 red pepper, and cook until quite thick. Now add 1 teasp. 
each cloves, mustard, and allspice, 1 tbsp. white pepper, 2 of 
cinnamon, 3 of salt, and J^ cup of brown sugar. 

1826. Tomato Catsup, Uncooked. — Chop fine J^ peck 
ripe tomatoes, 3 red and 3 green peppers without seeds, 4 celery 
stalks, and 2 onions, add 1 cup grated horseradish in 1 cup of 
tarragon vinegar, }/2 cup black-and-white mustard seed, 1 cup 
brown sugar, 1 teasp. each black pepper and cinnamon, J^ cup 
salt, and 1 pint vinegar. Mix cold and bottle. 




FOR EVERY OCCASION 



Cut white, brown, entire-wheat, graham, or rolled-oats 
bread in very thin slices, spread each slice with any of the 
flavored butters, or soft plain butter, spread one side with 
the mixture, cover with another slice, press together, cut in 
fancy shapes or roll them. Wrap in wax paper and then in 
a damp napkin until ready to use. Bread may be baked 
purposely for sandwiches by filling baking-powder boxes 
half-full of dough, let rise, and bake. Tiny baking-pow- 
der biscuits are often used for afternoon tea sandwiches. 
They are split and filled with any of the sandwich mixtures 
and put together, and served either slightly warm or cold. 
Rolls may also be used instead of 
bread. Cut a slice from top, re- 
move crumbs, leaving a shell, 
butter inside, fill with the mixt- 
ure or a salad, replace, cover, 
and wrap each one in waxed paper. These are most popu- 
lar for the automobile hamper. Sandwiches to be served 
at afternoon tea should be very small, and served on a doily 
on a pretty plate or silver sandwich dish. 

1827. The Patty Sandwich.— The Patty sandwich is an 
innovation — especially pretty for afternoon tea. Cut white 
bread in rounds or diamonds, free from crust, and cut entire- 
wheat or brown bread, or even more white bread, of the same size, 

S77 




378 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

cutting out the centre, leaving a half -inch rim. Spread the whole 
slice with the mixture without the dressing, put on the rim, and 
when serving spread the dressing in the centre, and garnish with 
boiled eggs, olives, beets, capers, green or red peppers, or sliced 
gherkins. It may also be used as a sweet sandwich without 
dressing. 

Savory Sandwiches 

1828- Almond. — Mix minced celery with shredded almonds 
and Mayonnaise, or use recipe for Deviled Almonds (1882), and 
spread between white bread. 

1829. Anchovy. — Mix 6 anchovies with butter and 6 
olives chopped very fine. 

1830. Beefsteak (for the picnic hamper). — Broil 
steak, season with pepper and salt, when cold mince fine, and 
add }/2 the amount of chopped olives, pickles or gherkins, and 
sweet red pepper. Add a grating of onion and soften with 
mayonnaise. Or use only Chilli Sauce with the minced beef- 
steak. Rolls may be filled with this mixture as well as bread. 

1831. Caviar. — Mix caviar with lemon or lime juice, spread • 
on buttered white bread, roll, and fasten with wooden toothpicks 
until ready to serve. 

1832. Celery. — Mix 1 cup minced celery with 1 tbsp. 
apples, nuts and olives, all minced fine, or with 3^ cup shredded 
almonds and 1 tbsp. minced pimento, and mix with Mayonnaise 
and spread on white bread. 

1833. Cheese and Chilli Sauce. — Mix 3^ cup of dry, 
grated cheese and 3 tbsps. of chilli sauce, and spread between 
sliced white bread. 

1834. Cheese Deviled in Biscuits. — ^Mix J^ cup of a 
cream cheese with 1 teasp. each of French mustard, Worcester- 
shire sauce, chutney, and tomato catsup, add plenty of paprika, 
and spread between baking-powder biscuit or large milk crack- 
ers. 

1835. Cheese and Marmalade. — Mix J^ of a small 
cream cheese with J^ cup of orange marmalade, add 2 tbsps. 
minced pecans, and enough cream to make it soft. Use entire- 
wheat or graham bread. 



SANDWICHES 379 

1836. Cheese and Pimento. — Drain pimento, mash with 
cream, add cream cheese and chilH sauce, spread, and use lettuce. 

1837- Cheese and Pineapple. — Mix equal parts of pine- 
apple and cream cheese, soften with whipped cream, add salt, 
paprika, and lemon juice. 

1838. Cheese Rochefort. — Cream 3^ cup butter with 4 
tbsps. Rochefort cheese, crumbed, add pimento, paprika, chives, 
and sherry, and spread graham bread. 

1839. Cheese Sandwiches, Hot. — Spread large slices of 
baker's bread, cut thin, with butter, then with a layer of grated 
cheese, dust with a suspicion of French mustard, cover with top 
slice, press down well, cut in long strips, and toast or bake or 
saute, and serve hot. Or add French Dressing to cream cheese, 
with minced pecans and plenty of paprika, and spread graham 
bread. Toast and serve hot. Paprika may be used instead of 
mustard. 

1840. Chicken. — Mix 1 cup chicken minced fine with 3^ 
cup celery minced, and soften with mayonnaise, or use olives 
and green pepper or pimento instead of celery, add a very little 
minced onion, and spread white bread. 

1841. Chicken and Bacon (Patties). — Mix equal por- 
tions of minced chicken, broiled bacon, and celery, add 1 teasp. 
of minced green pepper and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. 
Lay shreds of lettuce across sandwich before putting on top rim, 
and when serving lay a slice of tomato on each, and cover with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

1842. Chicken and Ham. — Mix 3^ cup minced chicken 
with }/s cup minced ham, add 2 tbsps. each cream cheese mashed 
smooth, chopped pimolas and gherkins, and moisten well with 
mayonnaise. Add paprika and spread white bread. 

1843. Chicken Liver. — Saute a slice of onion and sprig of 
parsley in butter, cook the livers 3 minutes in this, cover with 
boiling water, and simmer until tender. Cool and mince fine, 
mix with mayonnaise, and add a few drops of sherry. Put be- 
tween entire-wheat or rolled-oats bread and butter. 

1844. Club Sandwich with Bacon. — Club sandwiches 
are exceedingly hearty and are to be served on a plate with both 



380 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

knife and fork. Butter cold toast, spread with thin slices of 
chicken white meat, then with cold broiled bacon. Cover with 
a leaf of lettuce, spread lettuce with mayonnaise, and put on top 
slice of unbuttered toast. A slice of tomato is often placed next 
to leaf of lettuce. 

184S- Club Sandwich with Ham. — Make as above, us- 
ing thin slices of broiled ham instead of bacon, and add pimento 
puree to the mayonnaise. 

1846. Club Sandwich with Sardines.— To the Club 
Sandwich with Bacon add a skinned and boneless sardine. 
Turkey or game may be used in these sandwiches in the place 
of chicken. 

1847' Club Sandwich on Untoasted Bread with 
Boiled Dressing. — Cut 3 slices of bread for each sandwich. 
Cover first layer with a mixture of either minced ham, tongue, 
chicken, or hard-boiled egg mixed with chopped olives and 
mayonnaise. Cover with second slice, and spread with lettuce 
leaves, then with minced celery, green and sweet red pepper, 
endive, and a few chives softened with a very little of the mayon- 
naise. Put on top slice of bread, press for a few moments, then 
spread with Mayonnaise Jelly and garnish with olives, capers, 
and pimento. Serve with Boiled Dressing, to which 2 tbsps. of 
chilli sauce has been added, putting a spoonful on each plate. 

1848. Cucumber. — Marinate 1 thinly sliced cucumber in 
French Dressing an hour, adding 1 teasp. minced chives. Place 
betwjen entire-wheat bread, spread with butter and dusted well 
with paprika. Chilli sauce or chopped tomato may also be added 
to cucumber. 

1849. Crab-Meat. — ^Mince fine, meat from 2 or 3 hard- 
shell crabs, add same amount of minced celery or cucumber, and 
soften with mayonnaise. Spread between slices of entire-wheat 
bread. 

1850. Egg. — Mash 2 hard-boiled yolks with 1 tbsp. melted 
butter, a little salt, paprika, celery salt, and French mustard, 
spread white bread, and sprinkle with chopped whites, and cut 
in triangular pieces. Or add browned and salted almonds, 
roinved fine, to egg. 



SANDWICHES 381 

1851. Endive, Escarole, Lettuce, or Water-Cress. — 

Spread white bread with butter, sprnlde with paprika, and 
spread with lettuce, escarole, or endive, and spread top slice with 
mayonnaise. Mix water-cress with French Dressing and chopped 
eggs. 

1852. Garnished. — Cut white bread in round slices, fill 
with minced ham, celery, and mayonnaise, spread jelly mayon- 
naise on the top slice, garnish around edge with French peas 
soaked in French Dressing and a disk of pimento or pimola in 
centre, or put capers around edge and nasturtium pods in 
centre. Serve them on a large plate on a doily. 

1853. Green. — Mix minced cooked spinach with capers 
and anchovy paste, soften with creamed butter, and season with 
plenty of paprika and lemon juice. 

1854. Green Pepper. — Soak 2 green peppers in salt and 
water an hour, drain, and parboil 2 minutes. Cool and mince 
fine, add an equal amount of celery, 1 or 2 tbsps. pimento puree, 
and soften with mayonnaise. Spread on white bread. 

1855. Harlequin. — Bake white bread in a round lard pail 
and entire-wheat or graham in another of the same size, or cut 
them in large round slices. Spread white bread slices with cream 
cheese mashed with green peppers, spinach, or olives, spread 
brown bread with boiled and minced ham mixed with minced 
beets and mayonnaise. Spread another white slice with mayon- 
naise of celery and apple chopped fine and another slice of brown 
bread with minced pecans and mayonnaise. Place these together 
in alternate layers, having unspread bread at top and bottom, 
press them under a plate, and serve as you would a layer cake; 
cut in small wedges, but keep them together. They can be taken 
from the plate with a knife. 

1856. Ham Sandwich, Hot. — Spread thin slices of brown 
bread with a thin slice of ham or minced ham, then with a thin 
slice of dairy or imported Swiss cheese, cover with white bread, 
and saute in butter, or toast until cheese is soft, and serve hot. 

1857. Ham or Tongue and Veal Sandwiches. — Mix 

]/2 cup minced ham or tongue with 3^ cup minced veal, add 1 
teasp, vinegar, 2 drops Tabasco, 1 teasp. each French mustard, 
horseradish, and tomato catsup. Add 1 tbsp. mayonnaise and 
spread between white bread. 



382 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1858- Lobster. — Mix 1 cup minced lobster with 2 tbsps. 
mayonnaise, and spread between white bread spread with butter 
and dusted with paprika. 

1859. Lobster and Cheese. — ^Mince lobster and mash 
it with half the amount of mild cheese, add the coral and season 
with salt, pepper, French mustard, and tomato catsup, and put 
together with white bread. 

1860. Mock Crab. — Cream 2 tbsps. butter, add J^ cup 
grated cheese, 1 teasp. each French mustard, tarragon vinegar, 
and anchovy paste, 1 tbsp. minced olives, or gherkins, and salt, 
and plenty of paprika. 

1861. Nasturtium Sandwiches. — Spread baker's white 
bread with mayonnaise, then with nasturtium blossoms, and roll. 

1862. Nut. — Mince almonds, hazel nuts, or pecans very fine, 
add to creamed butter with plenty of paprika, and spread entire- 
wheat bread; or add cream cheese and cream to the nuts, with 
salt and paprika, and use white bread. Salted nuts may be used. 

1863. Pate de foie gras. — Mix 3 tbsps. foie gras with 
same of minced game or chicken, or use the foie gras with cream 
and serve on white buttered bread, with leaves of lettuce dipped 
in French Dressing placed between. 

1864. Ribbon. — Spread slices of white, brown, and graham 
or entire-wheat bread with different-flavored butters, pile in al- 
ternate layers, having both top and bottom of white bread. Wrap 
them in a damp cloth and press for an hour or more. Slice and 
cut in small bars, and serve, one lapping slightly over the other. 

1865. Salmon. — Mix cold boiled salmon, minced fine, with 
paprika, capers, gherkins, olives, minced parsley, and lemon juice, 
add mayonnaise and pimento puree to soften, and put between 
white bread. 

1866. Shrimp. — Mix 1 cup of shelled and mashed shrimps 
with 1 tbsp. lemon juice and 2 of mayonnaise, add plenty of pa- 
prika and 1 tbsp. pimento pur^e, and spread on white bread and 
butter. 

1867. Sweetbread. — Mix well-seasoned and minced sweet- 
breads with a little minced cucumber and deviled ham and May- 
onnaise Cream, and serve between white bread. 



SANDWICHES 383 

1868. Tartare. — Spread entire-wheat bread with Tartare 
Butter or Sauce (770), and put together with lettuce leaves 
dipped in French Dressing. 

1869. Tomato. — Spread slices of tomato with mayon- 
naise, and lay them with leaves of lettuce between slices of 
toast. 

1870. Truffle. — Mix 2 tbsps. boiled and minced truffles 
with 2 of chicken, 2 of sweetbreads, and Mayonnaise Cream 
Dressing to soften. Spread on white bread, and cut in oblong 
pieces. 

A Few Sandwich Fillings that Men Like 

Rare roast beef and horseradish and onion minced^ in white 
bread. 

Swiss cheese, German mustard, and rye bread. 

Hot Frankfurt sausages in quarter-inch slices, skin re- 
moved, and French mustard, in rolls or white bread. 

Raw beef scraped, salt, paprika, onion, caviar, and lime 
juice, in white or graham bread. 



Sweet Sandwiches 

For Afteenoon Tea 

1871. Bananas and Red-Raspberry. — Spread entire- 
wheat or graham bread with butter, then with 3^ cup banana 
pulp mixed with J^ cup red raspberries, 1 tbsp. sugar, and 2 
of cream. 

1872. Bar-le-Duc. — Mix equal portions of red currant, 
Bar-le-Duc, or home-made currant jam with cream cheese, soften 
with cream, and put together with white bread. 

1873. Cherry and Nut. — Mix canned or preserved cher- 
ries or Maraschino cherries with minced almonds or pecans or 
boiled chestnuts chopped fine, add minced water-cress, and 
spread between white bread. 



384 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1874. Cocoanut. — Mix 1 cup cocoanut with J^ cup nuts, 
2 tbsps. sugar, 3 tbsps. thick cream, pinch salt, and a squeeze of 
orange juice. Spread on white bread. 

1875. Date. — Spread entire-wheat bread with butter, then 
with J^ cup chopped dates mixed with }/2 cup EngUsh walnut 
meats minced fine, 3^ cup cream and a pinch of salt, cut in 
rounds or hearts, and put a walnut meat dipped in egg white 
on top of each. 

1876. Flower. — Put a layer of flowers in bottom of jar 
or covered dish, put in J^ cup fresh creamed butter wrapped in 
wax paper, cover with flowers, cover closely, and leave in the 
cool for several hours. Remove paper from butter, and spread 
between white bread, and the sandwich will have a strong flavor 
of the especial flower used. 

1877. Honey. — Mix honey with pecan meats or almonds 
minced, or with cream cheese and spread between tiny baking- 
powder biscuits. 

1878. Maple-Sugar. — Mix shaved maple sugar with 
minced and browned almonds, and spread between buttered 
biscuits, hot if possible. Or shave fresh, soft maple sugar, 
spread on buttered entire-wheat bread, cover with a layer of fresh 
cream cheese softened with cream, cover with buttered white 
bread. 

1879. Maraschino Cherry. — Mix % cup Maraschino 
cherries minced fine with J^ cup pecans or almonds minced, with 
cream to soften. Add pinch salt and spread on buttered white 
bread. 

1880. Orange Marmalade and Cheese. — Mix the 

marmalade with cream cheese and minced pecans or almonds 
and sweet cream. 

1881. Spice. — Mix ground spices with sugar, and spread 
on well-buttered entire-wheat bread. 




HOW TO USE THE CHAFING-DISH 

To cook quickly use only the blazer (the upper pan), and 
have it hot before you begin. Use lower pan half-filled 
with water for slow cooking. Use a chafing-dish spoon 
which is of silver or metal, with a wooden or ivory handle. 
Have an extra fork and teaspoon to try with, if you are not 
sure of your seasoning, and a small napkin. 

Before beginning to cook see that the table is well supplied 
with plates, knives, forks, and napkins for each guest, and 
that all the ingredients needed are prepared and neatly ar- 
ranged around your tray; to wait for one ingredient some- 
times means the ruin of the whole dish. 



Savory Dishes 

1882. Deviled Almonds with Cheese. — Mix 3 tbsps. 
minced olives or gherkins with 1 of chilli sauce, and 1 teasp. 
French mustard and 1 of Oscar or Worcestershire sauce. Cook 
1 cup blanched and shredded almonds in 1 tbsp. butter until 
brown, adding more butter if needed, dust with salt and paprika, 
and add the prepared mixture. Serve on bread, crackers, or 
toast, spread with butter or cream and soft, mild dairy cheese. 

1883. Bacon and Mushrooms. — Saut^ with but little 
of the fat 6 or 8 very thin slices of bacon until nearly done, 
add 6 or 8 large mushrooms, sprinkle with salt and paprika, and 
cook until bacon is crisp and mushrooms tender, and serve. 

385 



386 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1884. Beef Deviled. — Spread thin slices of rare roast beef 
with butter and then with the following mixture, and saute in 
very hot dish 3 minutes. Serve on thin slices of bread. Mix 
1 tbsp. French mustard with y^ teasp. each salt and paprika, 

1 teasp. each vinegar and horseradish, and 1 tbsp. pimento puree 
or tomato catsup. 

1885. Beef with Tomato Sauce. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter, 
}/2 teasp. onion until brown, add 2 of flour, and brown, add 1 cup 
strained tomatoes, J^ cup beef gravy or stock, 1 teasp. Oscar or 
Waw Waw sauce, salt, and Tabasco. When boiling add 3 cups 
rare roast beef cut in small, thin pieces, and serve when hot. 

1886. Bread, Eggs, and Bacon. — Cook 1 dozen small 
slices of bacon in blazer, removing fat with spoon, lay them on 
paper to dry, and keep warm. Cut fresh white or entire-wheat 
bread in 3^-inch slices, remove crust, and cut in 3^-inch cubes, 
dust with salt and pepper. Put 1 tbsp. butter in the blazer, add 
3 cups of the bread, and toss it in the butter until it has absorbed 
the butter, and is but slightly colored, add 4 tbsps. of the bacon 
fat and a dusting of salt and pepper, when fat is absorbed add 
3 well-beaten eggs, and as soon as they are slightly cooked serve 
surrounded with the bacon. 

1887. Calf's Liver with Bechamel.— Cook 2 tbsps. 
butter with 1 of flour, add salt and pepper, dash nutmeg and 
cayenne, and ^ cup stock. When boiling add 1 tbsp. each of 
lemon juice and table sauce, and 3^ cup cream mixed with 1 or 

2 yolks and 2 cups liver cut in dice. Add 2 tbsps. Madeira and 
serve in ramekins. 

1888. Calf's Liver Terrapin with Mushrooms. — 

Cook 2 tbsps. butter rubbed smooth with 3 hard-boiled egg 
yolks, J^ teasp. each salt and paprika, J^ teasp. each mustard 
and table sauce, and 2 drops Tabasco 2 minutes, add 2 cups 
cooked liver cut in small pieces, 1 cup stock, 1 cup sliced mush- 
rooms, and 2 sliced truflSes, and cook until mushrooms are tender, 
add 3 tbsps. Madeira and the egg whites cut in rings, and serve 
in ramekins or patties. 

1889. Cheese Cream with Rice. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter 
with 2 teasps. flour, add 13^ cups thin cream, salt and pepper 
and a little mustard, and 1 cup boiled rice, ^ cup grated cheese. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 387 

add J^ teasp. bicarbonate of potash in 2 tbsps. cream, and u 
generous dusting of paprika. Pour over entire-wheat toast 
spread with deviled or minced ham, tongue, or bacon. 

1890. Cheese Fondu.— Melt 2 tbsps. of butter with 1 of 
German mustard, 3^ teasp. salt, and J^ teasp. paprika. Add 1 
cup each of rich milk and soft bread crumbs, when boiling add 
2 cups of dry, grated cheese, and stir until cheese is melted. 
Add J^ teasp. of bicarbonate of potash (not soda) in 3^ cup of 
cream and the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Cook until it is 
boiling again, then fold in the egg whites beaten stiff, and serve 
on toast. 

1891. Cheese with Ham, Mushrooms, and Truffles. 

— Cook 1 cup cream with 1 cup grated cheese, J^ cup deviled 
ham, J/^ cup sliced mushrooms, and 2 chopped truffles until 
mushrooms are tender, add 1 tbsp. butter and }/s teasp. each salt, 
paprika, and bicarbonate of potash in 1 tbsp. cream. Spread 
on bread sauted in butter on under side. 

1892. Cheese (Welsh) Rabbit or Rarebit.— Heat 2 

tbsps. butter with J^ teasp. salt, 1 of made mustard, a little 
paprika, add 3 cups of shaved cheese, when beginning to melt 
add beer or ale to soften, }/$ teasp. bicarbonate of potash or 
soda, and 1 lightly beaten egg. Pour on toast. 

1893. Cheese Rabbit with Tomatoes. — Cook 1 tbsp. 
butter, yi cup tomato pulp or catsup, ^ cup cream, salt and 
paprika, add 2 cups cheese grated, 2 beaten yolks, and 3^ teasp. 
bicarbonate of potash. When boiling add the beaten whites, 
dust well with more paprika, and pour over entire-wheat bread 
toast. 

1894. Chicken Creamed.— (See 319.) 

1895. Chicken Curry, Indian Style.— Cook 2 tbsps. 
butter, }/2 teasp. minced onion, 2 tbsps. flour until brown, add 1 
tbsp. curry dissolved in a little water, 2 tbsps. each fresh-grated 
cocoanut or minced almonds, and minced apple, 1 cup thick 
chicken stock, 2 cups cooked chicken in small pieces, and J^ cup 
cream, add salt and paprika, and serve in ramekins or patties, 
or in Bread Croustades. 

1896. Chicken a la King.— (See 320.) 



388 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1897- Chicken Livers in Brown Sauce. — Make Brown 
Sauce in chafing-dish, add 1 cup cold cooked livers and hearts, 
cut in small pieces 3^ cup mushrooms or 3 chopped hard-boiled 
eggs, 6 stoned olives cut in two, salt and paprika, and 3 tbsps. 
of Madeira or 1 of any good table sauce. Artichoke fonds or 
sweetbreads may be added. 

1898. Chicken Newburg.— Cook 2 tbsps. butter, J^ 
teasp. salt, and dash cayenne, add 2^ cups chicken in rather 
large pieces, and the livers. Toss a moment, and add 1 cup 
cream mixed with 3 large yolks well beaten, when hot add J^ 
cup sherry and brandy mixed, and serve well dusted with paprika, 
in ramekins. 

1899' Chicken Terrapin. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 1 
of arrowroot or cornstarch, 2 boiled and mashed yolks, J^ teasp. 
each salt and paprika, and 1 cup cream. Add 2}/^ cups chicken 
and livers cut in small pieces, the egg whites cut in dice, and 
Egg Balls (160). When hot add 2 tbsps. sherry or Madeira 
and serve in ramekins. 

1900. Clams Fricasseed. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 2 
of flour, add 1 cup clam juice or white stock. When boiling add 

1 dozen clams chopped, 2 yolks well beaten with 3^ cup cream, 

2 tbsps. Madeira, and plenty of paprika. Serve on toast. 

1901. Corn and Green Peppers. — Cook 2 or 3 slices of 
onion and 1 green pepper in 1 tbsp. of butter until quite soft, 
then add 2 cups of green corn scraped from the cob and 1 cup 
of rich cream, 'cook a few moments, and serve on rounds of toast. 

1902. Crab Flakes (Hotel Astor).— Add to a rich 
Cream Sauce 2 cups crab flakes, J^ lb. fresh mushrooms, and 
2 tbsps. diced pimento. Serve in deep, small dishes. 

1903. Crab Flakes with Anchovy. — Cook 2 tbsps. but- 
ter with 1 teasp. flour, add 1 teasp. of anchovy paste, 1 cup 
cream, 2 cups crab flakes, and 3^ cup Madeira with plenty of 
paprika. Serve on toast. 

1904. Crab Flakes Newburg. — Follow recipe for Chicken 
Newburg (1898), adding J^ teasp. mustard. 

1905. Crab Flakes with Parmesan. — Make a Cream 
Sauce, add minced parsley, salt, and paprika, 2 cups crab flakes. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 389 

When boiling add 3 tbsps. Parmesan and 2 of sherry. Serve 
on toast. 

1906. Crabs and Shrimps Creole.— Cook 2 tbsps. 
butter with 1 of minced green pepper, }i teasp. of onion, and 2 
tbsps. of chilli sauce, add 1 tbsp. cornstarch, and cook again; 
then add 1 cup of cream, a Uttle salt, and 1 cup each of crab 
meat and shrimps. A few fresh mushrooms may be added to 
advantage. Serve on toast or in ramekins. 

1907. Duck or Turkey Salmi. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter 
with 2 of flour, add 1 cup gravy or stock, 12 stoned olives, 1 
tbsp. tomato catsup, }^ cup currant jelly, J^ teasp. salt, dash 
cayenne, 2J^ cups cold cooked duck or turkey in small pieces, 
and )/2 cup claret. 

1908. Eggs with Anchovy, Scotch Woodcock. — 

Beat 6 eggs slightly and cook them with 2 tbsps. butter cooked 
with 1 teasp. flour, 1 cup cream, cook until creamy, add 1 
tbsp. anchovy paste and 1 of minced capers. Serve on buttered 
toast. 

1909. Eggs Cooked, au Bechamel. — Mash and roll 
into tiny balls 6 cooked yolks with a few drops of oil and vinegar, 
1 tbsp. capers, and 1 of anchovy or caviar. Make B&hamel 
Sauce, add the balls and the chopped whites, and serve in small 
dishes. 

1910. Eggs Cooked and Creamed, au Parmesan. 

— Make White or Cream Sauce, add chopped whites of 6 hard- 
boiled eggs, and pour over buttered toast. Have the yolks 
mashed with 1 tbsp. oil, 1 teasp. mustard, J^ teasp. salt, 1 tbsp. 
pimento pur^e, or 3^ teasp. paprika, and press through potato 
ricer over the toast, and sprinkle with plenty of Parmesan. 

1911. Eggs Cooked and Deviled. — Cook 2 tbsps. but- 
ter, 1 teasp. mustard, 2 tbsps. tomato catsup, 2 of Worcester- 
shire or Oscar Sauce, 1 tbsp. mushroom catsup, 2 drops Tabasco, 
and a little salt, add 6 hard-boiled eggs in slices, and pour over 
rounds of buttered toast. A Httle anchovy and lemon juice 
may be added. 

1912. Eggs with Green Peppers. — Cook 4 tbsps. minced 
green pepper with 2 of butter, 2 of grated cheese, and 1 of tomato 



390 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

catsup, add 6 eggs beaten with J^ cup cream, and pour over 
buttered toast. 

1913. Eggs Cooked, Newburg. — Follow recipe for 
Chicken Newburg (1898), using 8 hard-boiled eggs. 

1914. Eggs and Tomatoes. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 
3^ teasp. minced onion, 1 tbsp. minced green pepper, IJ^ cups 
tomato pulp, 1 teasp. sugar, J^ teasp. salt and dash cayenne a 
moment, add 6 minced olives, 6 beaten eggs, and serve on brown- 
bread toast well spread with butter. 

1915. Eggs with Truffles and Pate de Foie Gras. 

— Cook 2 tbsps. butter, 3 minced truffles, 3^ cup cream, little 
salt, 2 drops Tabasco, and 1 tbsp. tomato catsup, add 6 beaten 
eggs. When creamy serve on toast spread with foie gras. 

1916. Fish Savory. — Cover 2 cups of cold boiled fish with 
French dressing, and after 2 hours drain and put in chafer with 
2 teasps. butter, cook a moment, and add 2 tbsps. Tomato Sauce 
and 2 tbsps. sherry, add salt and paprika, and serve in patty 
cases. 

1917. Finnan-Haddie, with Cream and Cheese. — 

Soak haddie in hot water, pick in flakes, and saut^ in butter, 
add 1 cup thick cream or rich Cream Sauce, 1 cooked yolk, and 
1 raw yolk, and add about 1 tbsp. of grated cheese. Serve on 
toast. 

1918. Finnan-Haddie Newburg. — Follow recipe for 
Chicken Newburg, and use broiled and flaked haddie. 

1919. Finnan-Haddie a la Haan. — Steam haddie in 
milk an hour, flake it, and to 2 cups add a thin but very rich 
Cream Sauce, to which add 2 beaten yolks, add shredded green 
peppers, sliced mushrooms, plenty of paprika, and serve sur- 
rounded with triangles of puff paste, and sprinkled with bits 
of pimento. 

1920. Frogs' Legs, Delmonico Style. — Cook 4 sUces 
of bacon, keep hot, and pour off aU but 1 tbsp. of the fat, put in 
the frog meat scraped from the bones, using 1 lb. of frogs, add a 
little butter, dust with pepper and salt, and saute until tender, 
add bacon cut in small pieces, and if obtainable add 1 cup of 
oyster crabs. When boiling serve in Bread Croustades. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 391 

1921. Game or Venison Rechauffee.— Cut the meat 
from the bones in wide strips, and cook it in the well-buttered 
blazer until it is slightly brown, then add 1 tbsp. butter, 2 tbsps. 
currant jelly, and the strained gravy left from the first cooking 
oi the fowl, or bird, or venison. Have ready a ring of boiled 
rice brushed with butter, and place it in a hot oven until it 
browns slightly. Serve on a round dish and put the fillets in the 
centre of dish with sauce poured over. A teaspoon of curry may 
be added to the sauce if liked, and the same amount of good 
Indian Chutney. 

1922. Ham and Cheese. — Cook 1 tbsp. butter with 1 of 
flour, add 1 cup cream or milk, dash cayenne, 1 cup minced 
boiled ham, and 3^ cup grated cheese. When cheese is melted 
serve on buttered entire-wheat toast. 

1923. Ham with Currant Sauce. — Cook 1 tbsp. butter, 
J^ cup currant jelly, J^ cup sherry, and dash of cayenne. When 
boiling add 2 cups boiled ham cut in small, thin slices and dust 
with paprika. 

1924. Ham Sandwiches, Hot. — Spread bread with 
minced ham seasoned with paprika and mustard, or use deviled 
ham, cover, and press the sandwiches. Soak them a few mo- 
ments in }/2 cup milk mixed with beaten egg, then saute the 
sandwiches on both sides in 1 tbsp. butter. Drain on soft paper. 

1925. Kidneys Deviled. — Soak 4 lambs' kidneys in salted 
ice-water an hour. Scald and cut them in thin slices. Cook 
2 tbsps. butter, 1 teasp. good table sauce, 1 of mustard, ^ teasp. 
each of salt, paprika, and curry. Add the kidneys, cook 5 min- 
utes, add 2 tbsps. claret, and serve. 

1926. Kidneys and Veal. — Trim kidneys, boil 5 min- 
utes, and cut in dice, and add salt and pepper and a dash of 
Tabasco. Make a Cream Sauce, add 2 chopped hard-cooked 
eggs,'l teasp. parsley, 1 cup minced or diced veal, and 1 cup of 
the kidneys. When boiling serve in ramekins. 

1927. Lamb, Venison Style. — Cut roasted or boiled 
lamb or mutton in thin slices. Cook 4 tbsps. tomato catsup, 1 
of tarragon vinegar, 4 of currant jelly, and 1 tbsp. butter. Add 
the lamb, when hot add salt, 3^ teasp. French mustard, and 
plenty of paprika. 



392 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1928. Lobster Cream. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter with the 
lobster coral and fat, 1 teasp. dry mustard, J^ teasp. salt, dash 
cayenne and nutmeg, 1 cup cream, and 4 tbsps. cracker crumbs 
soaked in 1 cup milk. When boiling add 2J/^ cups lobster meat 
and 1 beaten yolk mixed with 2 tbsps. cream. 

1929. Lobster Creole. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter, 1 small 
green pepper minced, 1 peeled and chopped tomato, and 1 slice 
of onion minced. Add 1^/^ cups chicken stock in which the 
shell of the lobster has been simmered an hour. Cook 5 min- 
utes and add 2}/^ cups lobster meat and salt and cayenne aa 
needed. 

1930. Lobster Curry.— Cook 2 tbsps. butter with 1 
teasp. each of onion, curry, and flour, add 1^/^ cups cream and 
23^ cups lobster, and serve in a ring mould of freshly boiled 
rice; garnish with sweet red pepper. 

1931. Lobster Madeira with Truffles.— Cook 2 tbsps. 
butter, 2 cups lobster dice, and 3^ cup of Madeira wine, dust 
with salt, paprika, and dash of nutmeg and cayenne. When 
boiling add 1 cup rich cream mixed with 2 yolks and 2 sliced 
truffles. Serve in Swedish Timbale Cases (806). 

1932. Lobster Newburg. — Cook 3 tbsps. butter, J^ teasp. 
salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, toss 2j^ cups lobster in rather 
large pieces in this, add 1 cup cream mixed with 3 large beaten 
yolks and a little more cream if necessary. When boiling add 34 
cup sherry and brandy mixed, dust well with paprika, and serve 
in small hot casseroles or ramekins. 

1933. Lobster and Egg Newburg. — ^This is suggested 
for those who like a Newburg, but object to the sherry. Cook 2 
tbsps. butter with 1}^ teasps. flour, add 2 cooked and mashed egg 
yolks, ]/2 teasp. each of mustard and salt, and a dash of cayenne 
and nutmeg. Now add 1 cup of thin cream, 2 cups of Ic/bster 
meat, and the cooked egg whites cut in dice. When boiling again 
add 2 yolks beaten with 34 cup cream and 2 teasps. of tarragon 
vinegar. Serve in ramekins or timbale cases. 

1934. Lobster Terrapin. — Make Olive Sauce (735), add 
2 cups lobster. Egg Balls (160), 2 tbsps. sherry or Madeira, 
and grating of nutmeg. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 393 

1935. Lobster and Truffles. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter, 2 or 

3 truffles sliced, and 2}/^ cups of lobster 5 minutes, then add salt, 
paprika, and J^ cup of Madeira wine, and cook again and add 
IJ^ cups of cream mixed with 2 beaten yolks. 

1936. Macaroni Savory. — Boil and blanch macaroni, 
and drain 2 cups of it. Mince 2 small green peppers and 2 small 
onions. Cook peppers and onions in J/^ cup of olive oil in the 
blazer 15 minutes, tossing it constantly, add 1 cup of tomatoes, 
the spaghetti, and J^ cup of grated cheese. When cheese is 
melted dust with salt and serve on toast. 

1937. Macaroni or Spaghetti, Italian. — Boil and drain 
]/2 package of macaroni, dust with 2 tbsps. Parmesan or dry 
grated cheese, toss with a fork, add 1 tbsp. butter, 34 teasp. salt, 
dash cayenne. When ready to use the chafing-dish cook 2 tbsps. 
butter until brown with 3^ teasp. minced onion, add 1 cup 
strained tomatoes, 6 fresh or canned mushrooms, 1 teasp. table 
sauce, and the spaghetti mixture. When boiling dust with more 
cheese and plenty of paprika. 

1938. Mushrooms Creamed. — Cook 1 lb. fresh mush- 
rooms in 3 tbsps. butter, add J^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne and 
nutmeg, draw mushrooms to one side and cook in the butter 
1 tbsp. of arrow-root, and when smooth add 1 cup cream and 
1 tbsp. sherry, dust with paprika, and serve on toast. 

1939. Mushrooms in Madeira Sauce. — Make Brown 
Sauce of veal stock, add 1 teasp. of curry and 3 tbsps. of Madeira 
wine. Add 1 lb. of fresh mushrooms sauted in butter and serve 
in ramekins. 

1940. Mushrooms Newburg. — Cut 1 lb. of mushrooms 
in small pieces or slices, put in chafing-dish, and add, 1 at a time, 

4 small butter balls rolled in flour. When mushrooms are tender 
add salt, pepper, dash of nutmeg, % cup cream, and when boil- 
ing add 2 yolks beaten with }/i cup of cream, add 2 tbsps. sherry, 
1 of brandy, and a little paprika. Serve in ramekins. 

1941. Mutton Terrapin. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter, 1 of 
flour, 3 mashed boiled egg yolks, and 1 teasp. dry mustard until 
smooth, add 1 tbsp. currant jelly, 1 tbsp. table sauce, 34 teasp. 
salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 1 cup gravy or stock, and 3^ cup 
cream. When boiling add 2 cups cooked mutton oi lamb cut 



394 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

in small pieces, the chopped egg whites, and, if liked, 3 tbsps. 
sherry or Madeira. Serve on buttered graham-bread toast. 

1942. Omelettes. — See Omelettes in Egg Section. 

1943. Oysters, Boston Style. — ^Put strained oyster 
liquor in hot-water pan, add salt, pepper, and when boiling add 

1 qt. oysters. When edges curl add 2 tbsps. butter, dust with 
paprika, and serve on graham toast well buttered. 

1944. Oysters Creamed. — Cook 3 tbsps. butter, 1 cup 
cream, 3^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne, celery salt, onion salt or nut- 
meg, 1 teasp. each minced parsley and Brand Sauce, and 1 qt. 
oysters scalded and drained. When boiling serve on bread 
toasted on under side only. 

1945. Oysters and Celery. — Cook 3 tbsps. butter, 1 of 
parsley, 2 of celery minced fine, J^ teasp. salt, J^ teasp. paprika, 

2 drops Tabasco, 1 teasp. Worcestershire or Waw Waw Sauce, 
and, S hked, 1 of anchovy paste, until celery is tender, add 1 qt. 
oysters, cook until edges curl, and serve. 

1946. Oysters a la Poulette. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter and 
1 of flour until smooth, add 1 cup rich milk, J^ cup oyster liquor, 
J^ teasp. salt, dash cayenne and nutmeg, 1 teasp. parsley, and 1 
qt. oysters that have been scalded, drained, and cut in pieces. 
When boiling add 2 beaten yolks mixed with J^ cup cream. 
Serve on toast. 

1947. Oysters Sauted in Brown Sauce. — ^Drain and 
dry 1 qt. oysters, and saute them in a very little butter until 
brown on both sides, turn all the juice in a bowl as fast as it 
stews out of them. Put oysters in another hot bowl, add 1 
tbsp. butter to saute pan, add 1 tbsp. flour and 1 cup of the hot 
oyster liquor strained, season with salt, pepper, paprika, and 1 
teasp. each of any good table sauce and tomato catsup. Pour 
over the oysters and serve. 

1948. Oyster Crabs Newburg. — ^Follow recipe for Lob- 
ster Newburg (1932), using 2 cups oyster crabs. 

1949. Partridges Sauted. — Remove meat from 2 cooked 
partridges, roll it in bacon, fasten with wooden toothpicks, and 
saute until bacon is crisp, remove skewers, place on hot plate. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 395 

add J^ cup stock, made from the bones, to pan, J^ teasp. pa- 
prika, blade of mace, and 2 tbsps. white wine. When hot pour 
over the partridges. 

1950. Sardines in Cream Sauce.— Drain, skin, and bone 
sardines, keeping them in large pieces. Add to Hot Water Sauce, 
with capers, lemon juice, and plenty of paprika. 

1951. Sardine Rabbit. — Cook 1 tbsp. butter, }/s teasp. 
salt, 3^ teasp. paprika, 1 teasp. mustard, 2 drops Tabasco; add 1 
cup cream and 1 cup cheese. When boiling add 6 large sardines 
skinned, boned, and mashed, and 2 beaten eggs. • Serve on toast 
or crackers. 

1952. Sardines with Cheese and Tomato. — Drain 
large sardines, place on strips of bread toasted on under side, and 
keep them warm. Heat 2 tbsps. of the sardine oil, or use butter 
if preferred, add J/^ cup tomato pur^e, J^ teasp. Tabasco, 3^ cup 
grated cheese, and, when melted, 2 beaten yolks or 1 whole egg, 
add piiich of soda, and pour over the sardines. 

1953. Sausages in Cream Sauce. — Boil 6 Frankfurts 
15 minutes, cool, skin, and slice. Add to sauce, season well with 
salt, pepper, and paprika, and add ]/2 teasp. Waw Waw or 
Worcestershire Sauce. 

1954. Scallops Creamed or Curried. — Cook 2 tbsps. 
butter, \]/2 tbsps. arrow-root or flour, J^ teasp. salt, dash cay- 
enne, and IM cups cream, add 3 cups scallops cut in small pieces, 
washed, and drained, 1 teasp. of any good table sauce, simmer 5 
minutes, and serve on toast dipped in melted butter. Dust 
well with paprika. For the curry cook scallops in Brown Sauce, 
to which add 1 teasp. curry powder and a few drops of onion 
juice. 

1955. Scallops Deviled. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter, 1 tbsp. 
each tomato catsup and Holbrook Sauce, juice J^ lemon, 1 teasp. 
mustard, 3^ teasp. each salt and paprika, and 3 cups scallops 
parboiled 3 minutes. Boil 2 minutes and serve in Bread Crou- 
stades. 

1956. Scallops in Mushroom Sauce. — Cut 1 pt. scal- 
lops in uniform pieces, boil 5 minutes, and drain. Chop peel 
and stems of 3^ lb. mushrooms, add a bit of mace, and soak in 



396 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1 cup milk 3 hours in the cool. Heat slowly and simmer until 
reduced One-half, strain, and add to 1 cup of cream; add this to 2 
tbsps. butter and 1 of flour cooked together, add salt and pa- 
prika, and let cool. When ready to use the chafer cook the mush- 
rooms in a little butter, adding more as required, add the sauce, 
when boiling add the scallops and a few shrimps if at hand, and 
serve in Puff Paste patty cases. 

1957. Shad Roe Boiled. — Soak the roe in salted water an 
hour, drain, and boil in the blazer 15 minutes with a little vine- 
gar, 2 cloves, 2 whole peppers, and a bit of mace. Pour off water, 
split, cover with bits of butter and dust with salt and pepper, 
and serve with the following sauce. Mix lemon juice, minced 
parsley, little onion juice, and tarragon vinegar, a little minced 
sweet red or green pepper, salt, and paprika. 

1958. Shad Roe Sauted. — Soak roe in salted water an 
hour. Scald, drain, and cut in slices. Have prepared 1 tbsp. 
butter cooked with 1 teasp. flour, 2 hard-boiled yolks piashed, 
1 cup stock or hot water and a meat tablet, salt, paprika, and 
curry if liked, 1 tbsp. table sauce, and a few drops lemon juice. 
Saute the roe in butter and pour over the sauce. 

1959. Shrimps Deviled. — Shell, remove black vein, and 
wash 1 qt. shrimps. Cook 2 tbsps. butter, 1 each of any good 
table sauce and minced parsley, 3^ teasp. each mustard, paprika, 
and salt, and 1 tbsp. lemon juice or tarragon vinegar. Add 
shrimps. Cook 3 minutes and serve. 

1960. Shrimps and Eggs. — Saut€ 1 cup shrimps in but- 
ter and keep them hot. Put 1 tbsp. of butter in the chafing- 
dish, add 3^ teasp. salt and a generous sprinkling of paprika, and 
turn in 6 well-beaten eggs, beaten with 3^ cup cream. Stir 
constantly with a spatula as you would an omelet, and when it 
begins to set add ^ cup grated cheese, and when melted add the 
shrimps and pour over hot toast, and serve at once. More 
cream and less cheese makes a more delicate dish and quite 
as good. 

1961. Shrimp Newburg. — Canned shrimps may be used. 
Soak them in ice-water an hour, drain, and soak in brandy and 
sherry, 1 tbsp. each, then add to the Newburg sauce in Lobster 
Newburg (1932), using half the amount of brandy and sherry. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 397 

1962. Shrimps with Rice and Tomato. — Cook 2 tbsps. 
butter, add 1 teasp. flour, and brown slightly, add 1 cup tomato 
pulp, bit of bay leaf, 3 sprigs parsley, 2 slices onion, blade mace, 
14: teasp. each salt and paprika. When ready to serve toss 3 
cups of fresh or canned shrimps, soaked in ice-water, in 1 or 2 
tbsps. butter, add the sauce, 3^ cup boiled rice, and J^ cup stock 
or cream. When boiling serve on toast or in ramekins. 

1963. Soft-Shelled Crabs Sauted. — Clean crabs, remove 
aprons, roll in cream, and dust them in flour mixed with corn- 
meal and seasoned with salt and pepper. Saut^ them in bacon 
fat and butter and lay them on a hot plate, add J^ cup each 
tomato pulp, chicken stock, and cream to blazer, season with salt, 
celery salt, and plenty of paprika, and pour over the crabs. 

1964. Sweetbreads and Asparagus Tips^ — Blanch 1 lb. 
sweetbreads, cut in small pieces, and place in the cool with 1 cup 
boiled tips marinated in French Dressing. Cook 2 tbsps. butter 
with 1 of flour, J^ teasp. salt, dash celery salt, cayenne, and nut- 
meg, add 2 mashed boiled egg yolks, and 1 cup cream. When 
boiling add the sweetbreads and tips, the egg whites cut in small 
pieces, and 1 yolk beaten with J^ cup cream. Add 1 tbsp. sherry 
if liked and dust with paprika. Serve between biscuits of Puff 
Paste or very rich baking-powder biscuit. 

1965. Sweetbreads and Chicken Livers. — Saute J^ lb. 
blanched sweetbreads in butter, add 1 cup cold cooked chicken 
livers and hearts in slices and ]^ cup boiled artichokes, or use 
the canned artichoke. Add to a rich Cream Saj^ce and serve 
in ramekins. 

1966. Sweetbreads Creamed. — ^Follow recipe for Chicken 
a la King (320), using 1 lb. sweetbreads instead of chicken, or 
use one-half the amount of each. 

1967. Tomato Curry. — Cook 1 tbsp. minced celery, 1 of 
minced green pepper, and 1 teasp. minced onion in 2 tbsps. of 
butter. Lay in 6 large pieces of tomato which have been rolled 
in flour and cornmeal mixed with salt and pepper, and cook them 
on both sides without breaking them. Have toast covered with 
finely minced chicken or lamb, and lay a slice of tomato on each. 
Add to pan 1 tbsp. each of cornstarch and curry powder dissolved 
in 1 cup of cream. When boiling pour over the tomatoes. 
The meat may be omitted. 



398 THE NEW HOSTESS OF TO-DAY 

1968. Tomato Nut Cream. — Cook and cool 1 cup to- 
matoes and 1 cup chicken stock or water until reduced to 1 
cupful, adding blade of mace, bit of bay leaf, 2 cloves, J^ teasp. 
sugar, little salt and pepper and strain. Toss in butter 1 cup 
broken pecan or English walnut meats, when hot add the sauce, 
and when boiling add 3 tbsps. grated cheese. When melted 
add }/2 cup cream whipped very stiff, and poiu* over toast placed 
upon lettuce leaves. 

1969. Turkey Mince. — Spread toast with pati de foie 
gras, then cover with diced turkey mixed with a Cream Sauce 
made with butter, arrow-root, salt, paprika, nutmeg, mushrooms, 
catsup, and truffles. 

1970. Veal Curry. — Cook 2 tbsps. butter and J^ teasp. 
minced onion until brown, add 2 tbsps. browned flour, 1 teasp. 
curry dissolved in Ij^ cups cream, milk, or veal stock or gravy, 
1 tbsp. grated cocoanut or minced almonds, salt, and cayenne. 
When boiling add 2]/^ cups raw or cooked veal cut in small 
pieces. Cook until veal is tender and serve in ramekins. The 
curry may be omitted and mushrooms or tomato sauce added. 

1971. Venison with Currant Jelly Sauce. — Marinate 
6 venison chops for 2 days in spiced claret, white wine or vinegar 
and water, drain, and dry. Cook 3 tbsps. butter, add J^ cup 
currant jelly, 34 teasp. each salt and paprika, 1 tbsp. lemon 
juice, and 3^ cup sherry. When hot add venison, cook 10 or 15 
minutes, and serve. 

Sweet Dishes 

1972. Apples Sauted. — Marinate 6 tart apples, cored and 
cut in slices, 1 hour in juice of 1 lemon, 1 tbsp. brandy and 1 tbsp. 
sugar. Drain, dust lightly with flour, and saute in 1 tbsp. but- 
ter until tender. Serve sprinkled with 2 tbsps. powdered sugar 
mixed with 1 teasp. cinnamon. 

1973. Bananas Sauted. — Skin and slice lengthwise 3 
bananas. Soak 5 minutes in ice-water, drain, dry, and saut^ in 
1 tbsp. butter. Serve covered with juice of 2 lemons, 34 cup 
sherry, 3 tbsps. powdered sugar, 3^ teasp. vanilla, juice of 1 
orange, and grated rind of the orange. 



CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 



399 



1974. Fig Dainty. — Cook 3 tbsps. sugar with 2 tbsps. 
lemon juice and J^ cup sherry and J/^ lb. bag of figs stuffed with 
salted and chopped peanuts or almonds, cook until tender, and 
serve on sponge cake. 

1975. German Toast. — ^Trim 6 slices of buttered white 
bread, or use Quick Nut Bread (1750), and cover for 15 minutes 
with 2 cups milk mixed with 3 beaten eggs and }/§ teasp. salt. 
Drain, and saute in 1 tbsp. butter until brown on both sides, and 
serve with Foam Sauce (1298) poured over. 



/C^( !> "> 




INDEX 



no. FAOB 

ACCESSORIES TO DESSERTS 

AND ICE-CREAMS 304 

1453. Chantilly Cream 304 

1454. Italian Meringue 305 

1455. Meringue Cases 305 

1456. Nougat Basliets or Cups . . 305 

1457. Red Sugar 305 

1458. Spun Sugar 305 

ACCESSORIES AND GAR- 
NISHINGS TO SERVE 
"WITH MEATS, FISH, 
POULTRY, AND VEGE- 
TABLES 185 

787. Aspic Jelly 185 

788. Banana Sticks 185 

789. Braisle 185 

791. Bread Croustades 185 

790. " Roulettes 185 

792. Chaud-froid Sauce 186 

793. Chicken Forcemeat 186 

794. Cucumber Garnishings ... . 186 

795. Dumplings, Plain 187 

796. Egg Cups 187 

797. Farci or Forcemeat 187 

798. Hominy Crescents, Pried. . 187 

799. " Diamonds, Pried.. 187 

800. Lemon Cups or Slices 187 

801. Mushrooms, Dried 187 

302. Parsley, Fried 188 

803. Pineapple Garnish 188 

804. Pufl-Paste Triangles 188 

805. Spanish Forcemeat 188 

806. Swedish Timbale Cases 188 

807. " Rosettes 188 

808. Tomato Garnish 188 

Beverages, Hot 343 

Bonbons(See Some Acoessobieb) 340 

BONNES BOUCHES 30 

31. Chicken Choux GlacS 30 

35. Choux Paste for Bonnes 

Bouches 31 



NO. PAOa 

32. Cream Cheese and Smoked 

Fish 30 

33. Pats de Foie Gras Cups .... 31 

34. Shell-Fish Patties 31 

BREADS, BISCUITS, ROLLS, 
ETC., RAISED WITH 
YEAST 353 

Bbeads Raised with Yeast. . . 353 

1698. White Bread, American 

Household 353 

1699. White-Potato Bread 353 

1700. French Bread 353 

1701. Entire-Wheat Bread with 

White Sponge 354 

1702. Entire-Wheat Bread, all 

Entire Wheat 354 

1703. Graham Bread 354 

1704. Gluten Bread 354 

1705. Nut Bread 355 

1706. Oatmeal Bread 355 

1699. Potato Bread 353 

1707. Squash Bread 355 

1708. Swedish Bread 355 

Biscuits Raised with Yeast . . 355 

1709. Ball Biscuit 355 

1712. Bohemian Biscuit 356 

1709. Clover-Leaf Biscuits 355 

1710. Oat or Rye Meal Biscuits 355 

1711. Potato-Split Biscuit 356 

1712. Prune Biscuit 356 

1713. Squash Biscuits 356 

Coffee Cakes, Bttns, and Sweet 

Bbeads, Raised with Yeast 356 

1714. Coffee Braids 356 

1715. Cocoanut Buns 356 

1716. Coffee Cake (Kuchen) 357 

1717. " " with Apples 

(Apple Kuchen) 357 

1718. Coffee Cream Fingers. . . . 357 

1719. " Rings 357 

1720. Cross Buns 357 

1721. Coffee Twists 358 

1716. Kuoben 357 



401 



402 



INDEX 



HO. PAOB 

1722. Neapolitan Buns 358 

1723. Pecan and Almond CofFee- 

CakeRing 358 

1724. Philadelphia Bun 358 

1725. Bagga-Muffln Buns 358 

1726. Sally Lunr. 359 

MnFFiNS Raised with Yeabt. . 354 

1727. Commeal MufBas 359 

1728. English Crumpets 359 

1729. English Mufllns, cooked 

on Griddle 359 

1730. English Muffins, baked in 

Oven 360 

1731. Hominy Muffins 360 

1731. Oatmeal Muffins 360 

Rolls Raised with Yeast. .. . 360 

1732. Breakfast Rolls 360 

1733. Dinner Rolls 360 

1734. Crescent Bolls 360 

1735. French Rolls 361 

1733. Limcheon Rolls 360 

1736. Parker House Rolls 361 

1737. Surprise Bolls 361 

1735. Vienna Rolls 361 

BISCITITS, BREADS, ETC., 

QUICK-RISING 361 

BiSCDITS, QtllCK-RlSINQ 361 

1738. Baking-Powder Biscuits . . 361 

1739. Baking-Powder Biscuit 

Buns 361 

1740. Beaten Biscuit 362 

1741. Commeal Biscuits 362 

1742. Cream Biscuits 362 

1743. Egg Biscuits 362 

1744. Entire-Wheat Biscuits. . . 362 

1745. Sour-Cream Biscuit 362 

Breads, QniCK-RisiNO 362 

1746. Boston Brown Bread 362 

1747. Commeal Batter Bread. . . 363 

1748. " Spoon Bread. .. 363 

1749. Graham Fmit Bread 363 

1750. Nut Bread for Afternoon 

Tea 363 

Gems, Popoveks, and Puffs, 

QnicK-RisiNQ 363 

1751. Egg Gems 363 

1752. Gluten Gems 363 

1753. Graham Gems 364 

1754. Green-Com Gems 364 

1755. Hominy Pufls 364 



HO. PAOB 

1756. Oatmeal Gems 364 

1757. Popovers 364 

1758. Entire-Wheat Popovers. . . 364 
Gsiddle Cakes 364 

1759. Pancakes 364 

1760. Bread Pancakes 364 

1761. Buckwheat Pancakes 365 

1762. Commeal Pancakes 365 

1763. Entire- Wheat Pancakes. . . 365 

1764. French Pancakes (Paris 

Crgpes) 365 

1765. Rice Cakes 365 

1766. Shrove Tuesday Pancakes. 365 

1767. Sour-Milk Pancakes 366 

1768. Wheat-Flour Pancakes. . . 366 

1769. Stack Cakes 366 

1770. Pancake Sauce 366 

Scones 366 

1771. Buttermilk Scones 366 

1772. Commeal Scones 366 

1773. Oatmeal Scones 366 

1774. Sour-Cream Scones 366 

Muffins, Qnics-RisiNO 367 

1775. Muffins 367 

1776. Bran Muffins 367 

1777. Bread Muffins 367 

1778. Commeal Muffins— Johnny 

Cake 367 

1779. Commeal and White-Flour 

Muffins 367 

1780. Commeal and Rice Muffins 367 

1781. Cream Muffins 367 

1782. Date Muffins 367 

1783. Entire-Wheat Muffins 368 

1783. Graham Muffins 368 

1784. Gluten MufBns 368 

1785. Huckleberry Muffins 368 

1786. Oatmeal Muffins 368 

1780. Rice Muffins 367 

Wafers and Crisps 368 

1787. Cream of Wheat Crisps. . . 368 

1788. Graham Wafers 368 

1787. Hominy Crisps 368 

1789. Oak-Flake Wafers 368 

Waffles 369 

1790. American Waffies 369 

1791. Commeal Waffies 369 

1792. Green-Com Waffies 369 

1793. Hominy Waffies 369 

1794. Rice Waffles 369 



INDEX 



401 



KO. PAQB 

CAKES AND CAKE-MAKING 

METHODS 307 

LaYEB C AKE8 307 

1461. Layer Caie, Golden 308 

1459. " " Plain 308 

1460. " " Rich 308 

1462. " " White 308 

Layer Cakes, Especial 309 

1463. Apple-Sauce Cake 309 

1464. Caramel Cake 309 

1465. Chocolate Cake with Hazel 

Nuts 309 

1466. Chocolate Layer Cake with 

Jelly 309 

1467. Chocolate Layer Cake with 

Mocha Filling 309 

1468. Chocolate Layer Cake with 

Haisin and Nut Pilling . 310 

1469. Crumb Nut Cake, Dutch 

Style 310 

1470. Orange Cake 310 

1471 Sponge Layer Cake with 

Fancy Fillings 310 

1472. Yellow Layer Cake 311 

Loaf Cakes 311 

1473. Angel Cake 311 

1474. Blueberry Cake 311 

1475. Chocolate Loaf Cake 311 

1476. Chocolate Marshmallow 

Cake 311 

1477. Chocolate Sour-Cream 

Cake 312 

1478. Crumb Loaf Cake (Ger- 

man Birthday "Torte") 312 

1479. Date Loaf Cake 312 

1480. Delicate Cake 312 

1481. Orange Cake 312 

1482. White Almond Cake, Rich 313 
Loaf Fbuit Cakes 313 

1483. Black Fruit Cake 313 

1484. Coffee Fruit Cake 313 

1485. Dundee Cake (English Tea 

Cake) 313 

1486. Raised Fruit Cake, Plain . 313 
1487 Raised Fruit Cake, Rich 

(Connecticut Loaf Cake) 314 

1488. Raisin Cake, Cheap 314 

1489. Sultana and Raisin Cake. . 314 

1490. White Fruit Cake 314 

Loaf Molasses Cakes and Gin- 
gerbread 315 

1491. Coffee Gingerbread 315 

1492. Molasses Cake with Orange 

Flavoring 315 



NO. PAG* 

1493. Sour-Cream Molasses Cake 315 

Loaf Nut Cakes 315 

1494 Butternut Cake 315 

1495. Pecan Cake 315 

1496. " and Cocoa Cake... 315 

1497. Pistachio Cake 316 

1495. Walnut Cake 315 

Loaf Plain Cakes 316 

1498. Quick Cake 316 

1499. Sour-Cream Cake 316 

1500. Sweet-Cream Cake 316 

1501. White Cake 316 

Loaf Pound Cake 316 

1502. Almond Pound Cake (two 

loaves) 316 

1503. Pound Cake (one loaf) . . . 316 
Loaf Sponge Cakes 317 

1504. Boiled-Sugar Sponge Cake 317 

1505. Chocolate Sponge Cake. . . 317 

1506. French Sponge Cake 317 

1507. Hot-Milk Sponge Cake. . . 317 

1508. Potato Flour Sponge Cake 317 

1509. Sunshine Cake 317 

Cakes, Small and Fancy Cakes 318 

Cookies, Drop Cakes, and Un- 

frosted Cakes 320 

1519. Cookies and Drop Cakes. . 320 

1520. Brown-Sugar Cookies .... 320 

1522. Chocolate Cookies 320 

1523. " Crumb Cookies 320 

1521. Cocoanut Cookies 320 

1524. Chocolate Nut Brownies. . 321 

1525. Date and Nut Cookies ... 321 

1526. German Christmas Honey 

Cakes 321 

1527. Golden Squares 321 

1528. Jam Jumbles 321 

1539. Jumbles 323 

1529. Lady Fingers 321 

1530. Macaroons 322 

1531. Maple Gems 322 

1532. Maple-Sugar Jumbles. .. . 322 

1533. Molasses Fruit Drop Cakes 322 

1534. " Nut Cakes 322 

1535. Oatmeal Drop Cakes 322 

1536. Orange Cookies 322 

1537. Peanut Cookies 323 

1538. Rock Cakes 323 

1539. Sugar Cookies 323 

1540. Sour-Cream Sugar Cookies 323 



404 



INDEX 



NO. FAOE 

Cream Puffs and Eclairs 318 

1510. Choux Paste for Bonnes 

Bouches, Creams, etc... 31S 

1511. Cream Puffs, Almond Fil- 

ling 318 

1512. Cream Puffs: Coffee, Choc- 

olate, Cream, or Maple 
PiUing 318 

1513. Cream Puffs, Fruit Filling 318 
Crullers, Fried Cakes, etc 319 

1514. Crullers 319 

1515. " French Style 319 

1516. Fried Cakes 319 

1517. Surprise Fried Cakes 319 

1518. Raised Fried Cakes or 

Doughnuts 319 

Fancies for Afternoon Tea 323 

1541. Almond Cream Boats. . . . 323 

1542. " Fluffs in Paper 
Cases 324 

1543. Chocolate Meringues 324 

1544. Date Sticks 324 

1545. Dobisch Tortes (Buda- 

Pesth Cakes) 324 

1546. Jam-and-Cheese Toast 

Strips 324 

1547. Macaroon Tortes 324 

1548. Marguerites 324 

1549. Marshmallow Crackers. . . 324 

1550. " Macaroons. 325 

1551. " Marguerites 325 

1552. Nut Bars 325 

Petits Fours and Frosted Cakes ... 325 

1553. Almond Petits Fours 325 

1554. Angel-Cake Balls 325 

1555. Babas for Afternoon Tea. . 325 

1556. Brioche 326 

1557. Cocoanut and Almond 

Cakes 326 

1558. Cocoanut Thumbs 326 

1559. Coffee Cocoa Cakes 326 

1560. Cream Petits Fours 326 

1561. " and Molasses Petits 

I Fours 326 

]l562. Cordial Petits Fours 327 

]^S63. Cream Cakes en Surprise . 327 

1564. Cream-Nut Petits Fours.. 327 

1565. Kuchen Frosted, with Can- 

died Fruits 327 

1566. Genoise Cakes 327 

1567. Nougatinc Petits Fours. . . 327 

1568. Pound Cakes 328 

1569. " " in Layers... 328 



HO. PAOB 

1570. Fonts d' Amours 328 

1571. Rice Flour Cakes 328 

1572. Sandwich Cakes , . . . 328 

1573. Sponge-Cake Petits Fours 

with Coffee Garnish. . . 328 

1574. White Cakes for a Large 

Afternoon Tea 329 

Puff-Paste Dainties for Afternoon 

Tea 329 

1575. AUumettes 329 

1576. Almond Strips 329 

1577. Napoleons 329 

1578. Pastry Hearts 329 

Wafers 329 

1579. Almond Wafers 329 

1580. " Sand Cakes 330 

1581. Chocolate Chips 330 

1582. " Drops 330 

1583. " and Nut Wafers 330 

1584. " Sponge Wafers. 330 

1585. Cream Wafers 330 

1586. Date and Pecan Wafers . . 330 

1587. Oatmeal Wafers 331 

CAKE FILLINGS AND FROST- 

INGS 331 

Fillings 331 

1588. Almond Paste Filling 331 

1589. Caramel Fillings 331 

1590. Chocolate Fillings 331 

1591. Fudge Filling 332 

1592. Cocoanut Filling 332 

1593. Coffee Filling 332 

1594. Cream Filling 332 

1595. Date Filling 332 

1596. Fruit and Nut Filling .... 332 

1597. Lemon Butter Filling .... 333 

1598. Maple-Sugar Filling 333 

1599. Maple, Nut, and Marsh- 

mallow Filling 333 

1600. Marshmallow Filling 333 

1601. " Gum-Arabic 
Filling 333 

1602. Mocha-Cocoa Filling 333 

1603. Nougat Filling 333 

1604. Orange Fillings 334 

1605. Peach Filling 334 

1606. Pineapple Filling 334 

1607. Pistachio Filling 334 

1608. Prune Filling 335 

Frostinqb 335 

Boiled Frostings 335 



INDEX 



405 



NO. PAQB 

1609. Almond Paste (to Cover 

CaJtes) 335 

1610. Boiled Frosting, Best.... 335 

1611. " " Ordinary 336 

1612. Brown-Sugar Frosting 336 

1613. Cocoanut Frosting 336 

1614. Chocolate Frosting 336 

1615. Fondant Frosting 336 

1616. Maple-Sugar Frosting .... 337 

1617. Marshmallow Frosting . . . 337 

1618. Nut Frosting 337 

Uncooked Frostings 337 

1620. Confectioner's Sugar Frost- 

ing 337 

1621. Confectioner's Sugar Frost- 

ing Cooked 337 

1622. Brandy Peach Frosting... 337 

1623. Caramel-Coflee Frosting.. 337 

1624. Chocolate-Coflee Frosting. 337 
1623. Coffee Frosting 337 

1625. Chocolate Butter Frosting 338 

1626. Orange Frosting 338 

1627. Pineapple Frosting 338 

1628. Ornamental Frosting 338 

1629. Royal Frosting 338 

1630. Glaze 338 

1631. " of any Flavor 338 

1632. Caramel Glaze 338 

1633. Chocolate Glaze 338 

1634. Egg Glaze 339 

CANAPES, METHOD 25 

1. Savory Butters, for 25 

2. " Creams, for 25 

3. Anchovy, Cold 25 

4. Artichoke, Cold 26 

5. Caviar, Cold 26 

6. Chicken and Ham, Cold .... 26 

7. Cucumber and Bacon, Cold . 26 

8. Crab, Lobster, or Shrimp, 

Cold 26 

9. Crab-Meat and Cheese, Hot. 27 

10. Egg, Cold 27 

16. Finnan-Haddie, Hot 27 

11. Ham, Cold and Hot 27 

12. Mushroom, Hot 27 

13. Pate de Fole Gras and Olives, 

Cold 27 

14. Prunes and Bacon, Hot 27 

15. Salmon and Caviar, Cold. . . 27 

16. Salmon, Hot 27 

17. Sardine, Cold 28 



NO. PAGE 

18. Sardine and Bacon, Hot .... 28 

19. Sausage and Cheese, Hot or 

Cold 28 

20. Sweetbread, Cold 28 

21. Tomato, Cold 28 

22. Tomato, Cold 28 

23. Tongue, Cold 28 

24. Tunnyflsh, Cold 29 

CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 385 
Savobt Dishes 385 

1882. Deviled Almonds with 

Cheese 385 

1883. Bacon and Mushrooms . . . 385 

1884. Beef Deviled 386 

1885. Beef with Tomato Sauce. . 386 

1886. Bread, Eggs, and Bacon. . 386 

1887. Calf's Liver with B6chamel 386 

1888. -Calf's Liver Terrapin with 

Mushrooms 386 

1889. Cheese Cream with Rice. . 386 

1890. Cheese Fondu 387 

1891. Cheese with Ham, Mush- 

rooms, and Truffles .... 387 

1892. Cheese (Welsh) Rabbit or 

Rarebit 387 

1893. Cheese Rabbit with Toma- 

toes 387 

1894. Chicken, Creamed 387 

1895. Chicken Curry, Indian 

Style 387 

1896. Chicken & la King 387 

1897. Chicken Livers in Brown 

Sauce 388 

1898. Chicken Newburg 388 

1899. Chicken Terrapm 388 

1900. Clams Fricasseed 388 

1901. Com and Green Peppers. . 388 

1902. Crab Flakes (Hotel Astor). 388 

1903. " " withAnchovy 388 

1904. " " Newburg 388 

1905. " " with Parme- 

san 388 

1906. Crabs and Shrimps Creole 389 

1907. Duck Salmi 389 

1908. Eggs withAnchovy, Scotch 

Woodcock 389 

1909. Eggs Cooked, au B6chamel 389 

1910. Eggs Cooked and Creamed, 

au Parmesan 389 

1911. Eggs Cooked and Deviled. 389 

1912. Eggs with Green Peppers . 389 

1913. Eggs Cooked, Newburg. .. 390 

1914. Eggs and Tomatoes 390 



406 



INDEX 



NO. PAGE 

1915. Eggs and Truffles and Pat6 

de Foie Gras 390 

1916. Pish Savory 390 

1917. Finnan-Haddle, with 

Cream and Cheese 390 

1918. Finnan-Haddie, Newburg. 390 

1919. " " k la Haan 390 

1920. Frogs' Legs, Delmonico 

Style 390 

1921. Game or Venison Eechauf- 

f6e 391 

1922. Ham and Cheese 391 

1923. Ham with Cmrant Sauce. 391 

1924. Ham Sandwiches, Hot 391 

1925. Kidneys Deviled 391 

1926. Kidneys and Veal 391 

1927. Lamb, Venison Style 391 

1928. Lobster Cream 392 

1929. Lobster Creole 392 

1930. Lobster Curry 392 

193 1 . Lobster Madeira with Truf- 

fles 392 

1932. Lobster Newburg 392 

1933. Lobster and Egg Newburg 392 

1934. Lobster Terrapin 392 

1935. Lobster and Truffles 393 

1936. Macaroni Savory 393 

1937. " ItaUan 393 

1938. Mushrooms Creamed 393 

1939. " in Madeira 
Sauce 393 

1940. Mushrooms Newburg .... 393 

1941. Mutton Terrapin 393 

1942. Omelettes 394 

1943. Oysters, Boston Style. . . . 394 

1944. " Creamed 394 

1945. " and Celery 394 

1946. " a la Poulette . . . . 394 

1947. " . Sautfid in Brown 
Sauce 394 

1948. Oyster Crabs, Newburg. . . 394 

1949. Partridges Saut6d 394 

1950. Sardines in Cream Sauce. . 395 

1951. Sardine Rabbit 395 

1952. Sardines with Cheese and 

Tomato 395 

1953. Sausages in Cream Sauce . 395 

1954. Scallops Creamed or Cur- 

ried 395 

1955. Scallops Deviled 395 

1956. Scallops in Mushroom 

Sauce 395 

1908. Scotch 'Woodcock 389 



NO VAGii 

1957. Shad Boe Boiled 396 

1958. " " Sauted 396 

1959. Shrimps Deviled 396 

1960. " and Eggs 396 

1961. " Newburg 396 

1962. " with Rice and To- 
mato 397 

1963. Soft-shelled Crabs Saut6d 397 
1937. Spaghetti, Italian 393 

1964. Sweetbreads and Aspara- 

gus Tips 397 

1965. Sweetbreads and Chicken 

Livers 397 

1966. Sweetbreads Creamed 397 

1967. Tomato Curry 397 

1968. " Nut Cream 398 

1969. Turkey Mince 398 

1907. " Salmi 389 

1970. Veal Curry 398 

1971. Venison with Ciirrant-Jelly 

Sauce 398 

1921. Venison Rechauflge 391 

1892. "Welsh Rabbit 387 

Sweet Dishes 398 

1972. Apples Saut6d 398 

1973. Bananas SautSd 398 

1974. Pig Dainty 399 

1975. German Toast 399 

CHEESE, COOKED 228 

1012. Cheese Boulettes, Hot 228 

1014. " Balls with Tomato 

Sauce, Entrge, Hot 229 

1018. Cheese Cream Hearts 

(Promage S, la Cr6me), 
Cold 229 

1019. Cream Cheese with An- 

chovy Timbales, Hot 
Entrge 229 

1020. Cheese Crescents, Hot. 



230 



1021. 
1023. 
1024. 
1025. 
1026. 



Croustades, Hot. . 230 

Drops, Hot 230 

Mousse, Cold 230 

Puffs, Cold 230 

Ramekins, Entrge, 

Hot 231 

1027. Cheese in Hot Rosettes, 

Hot 231 

1028. Cheese Souffle, Hot Entrge 231 

1029. " Tartlettes, Hot 
Entrge 231 

1030. Cheese Timbales, Hot En- 

trge 231 



INDEX 



407 



NO. PAOB 

CHEESE, UNCOOKED 228 

1010. Cheese and Apples, Cold. . 228 

1011. " BaUs, Cold 228 

1013. " Bars, Cold 229 

1015. " in Celery, Cold .. . 229 

1016. •• Charlottes, Cold . . 229 

1017. •' Cream, Cold 229 

1022. " Deviled, Cold 230 

1015. " in Endive, Cold... 229 

1015. " in Fruits, Cold 229 

COCKTAILS (EDIBLE) 29 

27. Sauce 30 

28. Clam, Oyster, Oyster Crab, 

or Shrimp 30 

29. Crab-Meat, Lobster, or Scal- 

lop 30 

30. Sardine 30 

Cocktails, Liquid (See Hot 
Bevebaqes and Cold 
Drinks) 343 

COOKERY SUGGESTIONS., xil 

To Saute xil 

" Fry in Frying Pan xii 

•• Pan Broil xii 

" Fry in Deep Fat xii 

" Crumb and Pry xiii 

" Lard Meat or Poultry xiii 

" Marinate xiii 

Pooling xiii 

Mirepoix xiii 

CoBDiALS (See Cold Dbinkb) 350 

DESSERTS, COLD 233 

Cake Puddings, Cold 233 

1031. Alaska Pudding 233 

1032. Angel Pudding 233 

1033. Chocolate Puff with Bon- 

bon Cream 234 

1033. Coffee Puff with Bonbon 

Cream 234 

1034. Cream Chocolate Pudding 234 

1035. Gateau St. HonorS 234 

1036. Genoise Pudding 234 

1037. Macaroon Pudding 234 

1038. Mocha Caramel Cakes 

with Fruit Macedoine . . 235 

1039. Sponge Cake with Cream 

Fining 235 

1040. Sponge Cake Pudding with 

Fruit (Cabinet Pudding) 235 



HO. PAQB 

1041. Sponge and Fruit Cake 

Cream (English Trifle) 235 

1042. Sponge Cake Pudding with 

Macaroons (Gateau 
Delphine) 235 

1043. Sponge Cake with Pine- 

apple Hearts (St. Valen- 
tine's Pudding) 235 

Cbeam Desserts, Cold 236 

1044. Blanc Mange 236 

1045. Bavarian Cream 236 

1045. Bavaroise 236 

1046. Almond Bavaroise 237 

1047. Banana Bavaroise 237 

1048. ChantiUy Bavaroise 237 

1049. Chocolate Bavaroise 237 

1050. " and Fruit Bava- 
roise 237 

1051. Chocolate Mocha Bava^ 

rolse 237 

1052. Coffee Bavaroise 237 

1053. Diplomatic Cream Bava- 

roise 238 

1054. Fruit Bavaroise en Sur- 

prise 238 

1055. Ginger Bavaroise 238 

1046. Hazel Nut Bavaroise 237 

1056. Macaroon Bavaroise 238 

1057. Orange Bavaroise in Or- 

anges 238 

1058. Pineapple Bavaroise 238 

1059. Charlotte Russe 238 

1060. Caramel and Burnt Almond 

Bonbon Charlotte 239 

1061. Coffee Charlotte 239 

1062. French Fruit Charlotte. . . 239 

1063. Grape Juice Charlotte 239 

1064. Macaroon Charlotte 239 

1065. Maraschino Charlotte 239 

1066. Plain Creams, Cooked 

without Eggs 239 

1067. Coffee Cream 240 

1067. Chocolate Creams 240 

1067. Fancy Cream 240 

1068. Neapolitan Creams 240 

1069. Spanish Creams 240 

1070. Spanish Cream, Benedic- 

tine 240 

1071. Spanish Cream, Caramel 

and Peaches 240 

1072. Spanish Cream, Chocolate 240 

1073. Spanish Cream, Curacoa . . 240 

1074. Spanish Cream with Mac- 

aroons 240 



408 



INDEX 



NO. PAGE 

1075. Spanish Cream, Pineapple 

and Pistachio 241 

1076. Plain Creams, Uncooked.. 241 

1077. Marshmallow Creams, Un- 

cooked 241 

Cttstahd Desserts, Cold 241 

1078. Baked Custards 241 

1079. Baked Custard Soufflfi 241 

1080. Boiled Custard Soft 241 

1081. " " Stiff 241 

1082. " " Elch 242 

1083. " " Souffle 242 

1084. Baked Custard Chartreuse 242 

1085. Apple Meringue Custard. . 242 

1086. Brandy Custard 242 

1087. Bread and Custard Fruit 

Pudding 242 

1088. Caramel and Almond 

Baked Custard 242 

1089. Chestnut Custard SoufflS. 243 

1090. Chocolate Custard Pud- 

ding Steamed 243 

1091. Chocolate Macaroon Cus- 

tard 243 

1092. Coflee Custard 243 

1093. Fruit Custard, Steamed. . 243 

1094. Maple Custard Souffle 243 

1095. Macaroon Custard 243 

1096. Mocha Caramel Custard. . 244 

1097. Orange Custard Meringue 244 

1098. Peach Custard 244 

Fahinaceous Puddings, Cold 244 

1099. Chocolate Cornstarch Pud- 

ding with Pineapple . . . 244 

1100. Farina Pudding with Pine- 

apple 244 

1101. Peach and Cornstarch Pud- 

ding 244 

1102. Tapioca with Peaches ... . 245 

1102. " " Pineapple... 245 

1103. " " Strawberries 245 

1104. Rice Mould 245 

1105. " Pudding, Half-frozen 245 

1106. " " SuprSme... 245 
Fbdit and Nut Dessebts, Cold 245 

1107. Apples Baked in Jelly 245 

1108. " Caramelled 245 

1109. Apple Snow 246 

1110. Apricot Eggs 246 

1111. Banana Fluff 246 

1112. Chestnuts with Coffee 

Sauce 246 

1113. Chestnut Mould 246 



NO. PAGB 

1114. Cocoanut Timbales 246 

1115. Date and Nut Torte 247 

1116. Fruit Macedoine 247 

1117. Peaches ia Cantaloupes. . . 247 

1118. " and Cream 247 

1119. " on Peach Cakes.. 247 

1120. " withRaspberry 
Sirup 247 

1121. Peach Snow 248 

1122. Pears with Raspberry 

Puree (Mary Garden). 248 

1123. Pears with Wine Sauce 248 

1124. Pineapple with Rum Sauce 248 

1125. Prunes in Claret 248 

1126. Prune Mould 248 

1127. Strawberries Glorified ... . 249 

1128. " en Surprise. . 249 
Jelly Desserts, Cold, Method 249 

1129. Brandy Jelly 250 

1130. Coflee JeUy 250 

1131. CrSmede Mentha Jelly... 250 

1132. Fruit Jelly 250 

1133. Lemon Jelly 250 

1134. Marshmallow Jelly 251 

1135. Orange Jelly 251 

1136. Prune Jelly 251 

1137. Rhubarb Jelly 251 

1138. Russian Fruit Jelly 251 

1139. Strawberry Jelly 251 

1140. "Wine JeUy 251 

1141. " " Macedoine 252 

Jelly Creams 252 

1142. Lalla Rookh Jelly Cream. 252 

1143. Mandarin JeUy Cream. . . 252 

1144. Sherry Jelly Cream 252 

1145. Strawberry Jelly Cream. . 252 
1143. Tangerine Jelly Cream. . . 252 
Jelly Sponges 252 

1146. Apple Sponge 252 

1147. Jelly Bar-le-Duc Sponge. . 252 

1148. Coflee Caramel Jelly 

Sponge 253 

1149. Date Jelly Sponge 253 

1150. Pineapple Sponge 253 

1150. Red-Raspberry Sponge. . . 253 

DESSERTS, HOT 253 

Puddings, Based 253 

1151. Apple and Fruit Batter 

Pudding 253 

1152. Apricot Custard Pudding. 253 



INDEX 



409 



"«. PAGE 

1153. Batter Pudding with Fruit 

Sauce 253 

1154. Blueberry Pudding 254 

1155. Bread Pudding with Al- 

monds or Cocoanut .... 254 

1156. Bread and Toast Puddings 

with Fruits 254 

1157. Bread and Raspberry Pud- 

ding 254 

1158. Caramel Banana Custard. 255 

1159. Chocolate and Apple Cus- 

tard Pudding 255 

1160. Chocolate Bread Pudding. 255 

1161. Coffee Torte with Orange 

Sauce Custard 255 

1162. Cottage Pudding 255 

1163. Cranberry Meringue 255 

1164. Farma Puffs 256 

1165. French Puffs 256 

1166. Fresh-Fruit Batter Pud- 

ding 256 

1167. Fresh Fruit Mould 256 

1168. Noodle Pudding, Fruit 

Sauce 256 

1169. Orange Pudding 257 

1152. Peach Custard Pudding . . 253 

1170. " RolyPoly 257 

1171. Savarin Pudding, Apricot 

Sauce 257 

Puddings, Farinaceous, Hot 257 

1172. Farina Pudding 257 

1173. Tapioca Pudding with 

Chocolate or Maple 

Sugar 257 

Puddings, Fried 258 

1174. Beignets Souffle 258 

1175. Bread or Cake Croquettes 258 

1176. Cream Cornstarch Dislis. . 258 

1177. Fritters 258 

1178. Fruit Rissoles 258 

1179. Maple Toast ?rith Fruit.. . 258 
FRniTS, Cooked 259 

1180. Apple Toddy, Baked 259 

1181. Banana Puddhig 259 

1182. Peaches, Baked 259 

1183. " on Fire 259 

1184. Pears, Baked 259 

1185. Pineapple Toast 259 

Omelettes, Sweet 269 

1186. Omelette, French 259 

1187. Omelette Soufflg, Baked. . 260 

Shobtcakes, Warm 260 

118S. Oranges and Apple Sauce 260 



NO. IAO» 

1188. Orange and Pineapple. .. . 260 
1188. Peaches and Almonds. . . . 260 
1188. Red Raspberries and Ba- 
nanas 260 

1188. Strawberries and Bananas 260 
Souffles, Sweet, Hot 260 

1189. Apple Souffle 260 

1190. Chocolate Souffle in Rame- 

kins 261 

1191. Coffee SoufflS 261 

1192. Date and Nut Soufflg. ... 261 

1193. Italian Souffl§, Sabayon . . 261 

1194. Macaroon Soufflg 261 

1195. Orange Soufflg in Orange 

Shells 262 

1196. Pineapple Soufflg, Sabayon 

Sauce 262 

1197. Prune Souffle in Ramekins 262 

1198. Rice Soufflg 262 

1199. Sponge Souffle 262 

Steamed Puddings, Hot 263 

1200. Apple Farci with Whipped 

Cream 263 

1201. Apple and Rice Balls 263 

1202. Chocolate and Almond 

Pudding 263 

1206. Chocolate Pudding 234 

1203. Cocoa and Cream of Wheat 

Pudding 263 

1204. Cocoanut Pudding 263 

1205. " Snowballs 263 

1207. Fig Pudding 264 

1208. Fresh-Fruit Pudding 264 

1209. Fruit Snowballs 264 

1210. Pineapple Soufflg, Steamed 264 

1211. " Sponge 265 

1212. Plum Pudding (English 

Style) 265 

1213. Plum and Carrot Pudding 265 

1214. Plum and Graham Pudding 265 

1215. Plum and Whole-Wheat 

Pudding 266 

PASTRY 266 

Pastes 268 

1216. Plam Paste 266 

1217. Puff Paste 266 

1218. Pufl-Paste Bouches 267 

1219. Patfis 267 

1220. Tartlets 268 

l.'?21. Vol au Vents 268 

1222. Near Puff Paste 268 

1223. Almond Sweet Paste 268 



410 



INDEX 



KO, PAGE 

1224. English Pastry for English 

Tarts 368 

1225. Meringue for Pies 268 

Pies FOR Desseht 269 

1226. Apple Pie 269 

1227. " Custard Meringue. . 269 

1228. " Pie (Florentine 

Style) 269 

1229. Apple Marlborough Pie.. . 269 

1230. " and Mixed Fruit Pie 269 

1231. Blueberry Pie 269 

1232. Cherry Pie with Variations 270 

1233. Currants and Huckleberry 

Pie 270 

1234. Cranberry Pie (Colonial 

Style) 270 

1235. Chocolate Pie 270 

1235. Cream Pie 270 

1236. Custard Pie with Varia- 

tions 270 

1251. English Fruit Tarts 272 

1237. Grape-Fruit Pie 270 

1249. Huckleberry Meringue Pie 272 

1238. Lemon Pie 270 

1239. " Meringue 270 

1240. Mince Meat Rich 271 

1241. " " Plain 271 

1252. Mocha Caramel Fresh- 

Fruit Tart 273 

1242. Orange Pie 271 

1243. Peach, Pear, and Plum 

Pies 271 

1244. Peach Meringue Pie 271 

1245. Pineapple Meringue Pie . . 272 

1246. Prune and Date Pie 272 

1247. Pumpkin Pie 272 

1248. Raisin Pie 272 

1250. Red Raspberry Pie with 

Custard 272 

1249. Rhubarb Meringue Pie. . . 272 
1247. Squash Pie 272 

1250. Strawberry Pie with Cus- 

tard Cream 272 

Tabts and Tartlets 273 

1253. Almond Macaroon Tart- 

lets 273 

1254. Almond Meringue Tartlets 273 
1263. ApricotTartlets withRasp- 

berry Sauce 274 

1255. Banbury Tartlets 273 

1256. Bar-le-Duc Tarts with 

Whipped Cream 273 

1257. Chestnut Tartlets 273 

1258. Coffee Cream Tarts 274 



NO. . PAOa 

1259. Cream Cheese Tartlets or 

Maids of Honor 274 

1260. Fruit and Ctistard Tart- 

lets 274 

1261. Fruit Purge in Almond 

Paste Tartlets 274 

1262. Orange Tartlets 274 

1263. Peach Tartlets with Rasp- 

berry Sauce 274 

1264. Pineapple Tartlets 274 

1265. Strawberry Tartlets 274 

Drinks, Cold 345 

EGGS 221 

969. Eggs Boiled Hard 221 

970. " " Soft 221 

971. Eggs Boiled Soft but Whole 221 

972. " Anchovy 221 

973. Egg Apples 222 

974. Eggs Baked with Cheese. . 222 

975. " " in Nests 222 

976. " " with Poulette 

Sauce (Eggs Trevise) . . 222 

977. Eggs Baked In Ramekins.. 222 

978. " " with Spinach. . 222 

979. " " in Tomatoes. . 222 

980. " with Cheese 223 

981. " " Chicken 223 

982. Egg Croquettes 223 

983. Eggs in Croustades 223 

984. " Curried 223 

985. Egg Custard 223 

986. " " Souffle 223 

987. " Supreme. . . 223 

988. Eggs Deviled 224 

989. " in Egg Timbales 224 

990. " Fried (Aromatique) . . 224 

991. " " (Callabrais) . . . 224 

992. " " (Espagnole) . . . 224 

993. " au Gratin with Green 

Peppers 224 

980. Eggs with Ham 223 

994. " and Ham in English 

Muffins (Eggs Benedic- 
tine) 225 

995. Eggs Poached 225 

996. " " with Arti- 

chokes, or Eggs Bar-le- 
Duc 225 

997. Eggs Poached with Caramel 

Sauce (Eggs Zingara) . . 225 

998. Eggs Poached with Ham 

and Sauce Hollandaise. 228 



INDEX 



411 



HO. FAGB 

999. Eggs Poached with Ma- 
deira Sauce (Bossini) . . 225 

1000. Eggs Poached on Tomato 

Toast 226 

1001. Eggs with Piquante Sauce 226 

1002. Eggs Ragout in Pastry 

Cases 226 

1003. Eggs and Tomatoes, Sauce 

Espagnole 226 

1004. Eggs with Truffles (Soubey- 

ron) 226 

1005. Eggs and Tongue with Red 

Sauce 226 

Omelettes, Savoey 226 

1006. Foamy Omelette 226 

1007. French Omelette 227 

1008. Omelette, Spanish Style. . 227 

1009. " with Sptaach. . . 228 

FISH AND SHELL FISH... 56 
Fish, Cooked "Whole 57 

163. Court Bouillon for Boiling 

Pish 56 

164. Stuffing for Baked Fish 57 

165. Baked 57 

166. Boiled 57 

167. Broiled 57 

168. Black Bass Broiled 58 

169. BlueflshBaJied 58 

169. " Broiled 58 

170. Brook Trout Baked 58 

171. " " Broiled 58 

172. ■■ " Saut§d 58 

173. Butterflsh, or any small pan 

flsh, Sauted 58 

174. Frogs' Legs Broiled 59 

175. " " Pried 59 

175. " " Sauted 59 

176. " " Stewed, S, la 

Poulette 59 

177. Pompano Broiled 59 

178. Red Snapper Boiled 59 

179. Salmon Suprgme Boiled 60 

180. Shad Broiled 60 

181. " Planked 60 

182. " Roe Baked 60 

183. " " Broiled 60 

184. " " Sauted 61 

185. Smelts BaJced 61 

186. " Fried 61 

187. " Sauted 61 

188. " " Boston Style 61 

189. Sole Poached a la Marguery 61 



NO. PAOB 

190. Sole au Vin Blanc 62 

191. Spanish Mackerel Broiled.. 62 

192. Whitebait Fried 62 

181. Whiteflsh Planked 60 

Fish EuTEiEs, Cold 69 

222. Pish FUlets, Cold 69 

223. " Forcemeat 69 

224. Salmon Cutlets, Cold 69 

225. " Fillets, Cold 70 

226. Sardines in Aspic 70 

Fish Entb^es OF CooEED Fish.. 66 

208. Fish Creamed for Casseroles, 

Fates, Ramekins, or 

Swedish Timbale Cases 66 

209. Fish Creamed in Cucumber 

Boats 66 

210. Fish Croquettes 66 

210. " Cutlets 66 

211. " Souffles 67 

212. " Timbales, Ordinaire . . 67 

213. " " Supreme... 67 

214. Salmon Curried 67 

215. " Cutlets 67 

216. " Souffle withLobster 68 

217. Shad Roe Creamed 68 

Fish Ente^es of Uncooked 

Fish 62 

193. Fish Fillets Baked 62 

194. " " " inaPaper 

Bag 62 

195. Pish Fillets Baked with An- 

chovy 63 

196. Pish Fillets Pried 63 

197. " " Sauted 63 

198. Flounder Fillets Stuffed 

and Baked 63 

199. Ploxmder Fillets Stuffed 

and Fried 63 

200. Halibut Fillets Baked with 

Cheese Sauce 64 

201. HaUbut Fillets Baked with 

Cream Sauce 64 

202. HaUbut Fillets Parcis 64 

203. Halibut au JardiniSre, 

Baked 64 

204. Halibut Fillets with Toma- 

to Mayonnaise 64 

205. Little Fish Moulds 65 

206. Salmon Fillets Baked 65 

207. " '• Broiled.... 65 

207. " " Pried 65 

Fish Suoked os Fish in Oil. . 68 

218. Finnan-Haddie with Cream 68 



412 



INDEX 



NO. PAGE 

219. Plnnan-Haddle and Lobster 69 

219. " " and Shrimps 69 

220. " " wlthTomaix) 

Cheese Cream 69 

221. Sardines Broiled 69 

Shell Fish 70 

227. Clams and Crabs 70 

228. " Deviled and Broiled 71 

229. Clam Fritters 71 

230. Crabs Creamed en Casse- 

role 71 

231. Crab CroQuettes 71 

232. Crabs Deviled 71 

233. Crab-Meat au Gratin 71 

234. " " Soufflg 72 

235. " " Timbales 72 

236. Crabs and Tomatoes en Co- 

quille 72 

237. Lobsters Broiled Alive 72 

238. Lobster Cooked Alive, an 

Epicure's Dish 72 

239. Lobster Chops 73 

239. " Cutlets 73 

240. " en Coquille 73 

241. " Creamed for Casse- 
roles or Fat€s 73 

242. Lobster in Croustades 73 

243. " Curry with Eice... 74 

244. " Fillets Supreme. . . 74 

245. " Patties 74 

246. " SoufflS 74 

247. " Timbales 74 

248. " and Mushroom Ba- 

gout 74 

249. Oyster Boulettes 75 

250. " Chartreuse 75 

251. Oysters Creamed 75 

252. " in Croustades ... . 75 

253. " Curried 75 

254. Oyster Cutlets 76 

255. Oysters Deviled 76 

256. " Fried 76 

257. " Masked and Fried 76 

258. Oyster Pie 76 

259. " Bissoles 77 

256. Oysters Saut6d 76 

260. " Scalloped 77 

261. Oyster Soufflg 77 

262. " Crabs in Croustades 

or English Muffins .... 77 

263. Scallops en Brochette 77 

264. " Fried 77 



NO. PASS 

265. Scallops au Gratin 78 

264. " Sauted 77 

266. Shrimps Creamed 78 

267. " Timbales 78 

268. " and Tomatoes 
SautSd 78 

269. Snails Cooked 78 

270. Soft^shell Crabs Broiled 78 

271. Fried 78 

272. " " " Sauted 79 

273. Terrapin Stewed 79 

ShelI/'Fish on the Shell 29' 

25. Oysters and Clams 29 

26. Roast Oysters on Shell 29 

26. " Clams on Shell 29 

FRITTERS TO SERVE WITH 

MEATS AND POULTRY 182 

775. Batter for Fritters 182 

776. Fruit Fritters 182 

FRUIT BEGINNINGS, 

METHOD 33 

48. Alligator Pear Cocktail 33 

49. Apple Macedoine 33 

50. Banana Boats 33 

51. Bananas and Strawberries. . . 33 

52. Cantaloupe 34 

53. Fresh Fig Cocktails 34 

54. Grape-Fruit 34 

55. Grape-Fruit Macedoine 34 

56. Grape-Fruit SuprSme 34 

57. Kumquat Cocktail 34 

58. Lemon Boats 35 

54. Oranges 34 

59. Pineapple Points 35 

60. Tangerine Tulips 35 

61. Watermelon Hearts 35 

62. Witches' Cocktail 35 

Fruitb and Nuts Glac6d — (See 

Some Accesbobieb) 340 

GAME 190 

Cold Game 196 

838. Game Pie 196 

842. " Sauce 197 

843. " Stufang or Force. 

meat 198 

839. Pigeon Galantine 197 

840. Quails with Champagne 

Sauce 197 



INDEX 



413 



NO. PAQB 

840. Squabs with Ohampagne 

Sauce 197 

841. Squabs Boasted and Served 

Cold 197 

Feathered Game 190 

809. Ducks Broiled 190 

810. " Roasted 190 

811. Duck en Presse — Frederick 190 

812. Grouse to Broil 191 

813. " " Devil 191 

814. " " Roast 191 

815. " " Roast or Bake in 

Paper Beig 191 

816. Grouse to SautS 192 

812. Partridges to Broil 191 

813. " " DevU 191 

814. " " Roast 191 

815. " " Roast or Bake 

in Paper Bag 191 

816. Partridges to Saute 192 

817. " en Casserole 192 

818. " with Cream 
Sauce 192 

812. Pheasants to Broil 191 

813. " " Devil 191 

814. " " Roast 191 

815. " " Roast or Bake 

in Paper Bag 191 

816. Pheasants to Sautg 192 

819. Pigeons Potted en Casserole 192 

820. " Stewed with Mush- 
rooms 193 

812. Prairie Chickens to Broil. . 191 

813. " " " Devil.. 191 

814. " " " Roast.. 191 

815. " " " Roast 

or Bake in Paper Bag ... 191 

816. Prairie Chickens to SautS. . 192 

821. Quails Broiled 193 

822. " with Grapes en Cas- 

serole 193 

823. Quails Roasted 193 

824. " Boasted in Apple 

Nests 193 

825. Quails Roasted with Truffles 193 

821. Small Birds Broiled 193 

823. " " Roasted 193 

828. " " Roasted in Me- 
ringue 194 

821. Squabs Broiled 193 

823. " Boasted 193 

825. " Boasted with Truf- 
fles 193 



NO. PAGE 

826. Squabs and Livers en Cas- 

serole 194 

827. Squabs Boasted, with Bread 

Sauce 194 

828. Squabs, Roasted in M e- 

ringue 194 

Ground Game 194 

829. Hare or Rabbit Jugged (en 

Casserole) 194 

830. Hare or Rabbit Roasted, 

English Style 195 

831. Hare or Rabbit SautSd. . . . 195 

832. Squirrels Stewed, Bruns- 

wick Stew 195 

833. Squirrel Pie 195 

834. Venison Broiled 196 

835. " Roasted 196 

836. " Roasted (Plain but 
Good) 196 

837. Venison Saut6d with Truf- 

fles 196 

Garnishinqb for Desserts and 

Icb-Cbeams. 304 

Garnibhinqs for Meats, Fish, 

Poultry, and Vegetables 185 

HORS D'CEUVRES, METHOD 31 

36. Anchovies in Tomatoes 31 

37. Artichoke Fonds 31 

46. Caviar and Eggs 32 

37. Celery Cups 31 

38. Crab-Meat Glac6 31 

39. Cucumber Crowns 31 

40. Dill Boats 32 

41. Eggs and Caviar 32 

42. Egg Quarters 32 

43. Mushrooms Vinaigrette 32 

44. Olives Stuffed 32 

45. Sardines in Lemon Cups .... 32 

46. Shrimps and Eggs 32 

47. Tomato Boxes 32 

HOT BEVERAGES AND COLD 

DRINKS 343 

Hot Bevebaoeb 343 

1645. Chocolate 343 

1646. Cocoa 343 

1647. Boiled Coffee 343 

1648. Percolated Coffee 343 

1649. After Dinner Coffee 343 

1650. Turkish Coffee 344 

1651. Vienna Coffee Mfilange. . . 344 

1652. Witches" Coffee 344 

1653. Claret Mulled 344 



414 



INDEX 



NO. FAOB 

1654. Cider Mulled 344 

1655. Sherry Mulled 344 

1656. Russian Tea 344 

Cold Dbihkb 345 

1657. Champagne Punch, for 12 

persons 345 

1658. Champagne Fruit Punch, 

for 12 persons 345 

1659. Cherry Julep 345 

1660. Chocolate, Iced 346 

1661. Claret Cup, for 12 persons, 346 

1662. " Punch, for 12 per- 
sons 346 

1663. Coffee Cup Hungarian, for 

12 persons 346 

1664. Coffee Cup Austrian, for 12 

persons 346 

1665. Egg Nogg, Cold, for 6 per- 

sons 347 

1666. Fruit Punch, for 12 persons 347 

1667. Ginger Ale Punch, for 12 

persons 347 

1668. Grape-Juice Punch, for 12 

persons 347 

1669. Highball Mel6e 347 

1670. Lemonade, for 12 persons . . 348 

1671. Melonade, for 12 persons. 348 

1672. MllkPunch, ColdorHot.. 348 

1673. Mint Julep 348 

1674. •• " Virginia Style. 348 

1675. " Punch, for 12 persons 348 

1676. Pineappleade, for 12 per- 

sons 349 

1677. Rhine Wine Ptmch, for 12 

persons 349 

1678. Rum Punch with Fruit, for 

12 persons 349 

1679. Sherry Cobbler 349 

1680. Silver Fizz 349 

1681. Strawberry Cup, for 12 

persons 349 

1682. Tea Punch 349 

1683. White Wine Punch, for 12 

persons 350 

Cocktails and Cobdialb 350 

1684. Bronx Cocktail 350 

1685. Clover Cocktail 350 

1687. Emerson Cocktails 350 

1686. Fruit and Rye Cocktail. . . 350 

1687. Gin Cocktails (Emerson) . 350 

1688. Grape-Fruit Cocktail 350 

1689. Manhattan Cocktail 351 

1690. " " Dry. 351 

1691. Martini Cocktail 351 



HO. PAOB 

1692. Orange Cocktail 351 

1687. Perfect Cocktail 350 

1693. Pineapple Cocktail 351 

1694. Blackberry Cordial 35l'^ 

1695. Coffee Cordial, Hot 351 

1696. Grape Cordial 351 

1697. Orange Cordial 352 

ICE-CREAMS AND ICES ... 280 

Ioe-Okbams Stibbbd While 

Fbeezino 281 

1308. French Ice-Cream 281 

1309. Philadelphia Ice-Cream. . . 281 

1310. Almond Caramel Ice- 

Cream 281 

1311. Almond and Macaroon Ice- 

Cream 281 

1312. American Ice-Cream for 

Children's Parties 281 

1313. Angel Ice-Cream 282 

1314. Baked Alaska 282 

1315. Brown-Bread Ice-Cream.. 282 

1316. Cantaloupe Ice-Cream 

(Buda Pesth) 282 

1317. Cantaloupe Ice-Cream 

(Lillian Russell) 282 

1318. Caramel Ice-Cream 282 

1319. " Mocha Ice-Cream 282 

1320. " Ice-Cream with 
Pecans 282 

1321. Cherry and Almond Ice- 

Cream 282 

1322. Chocolate Ice-Cream with 

Variations 283 

1323. Choux FiUed with Ice- 

Cream 283 

1324. Coffee Cocoa Ice-Cream. . . 283 

1325. Coffee Cocoa Ice-Cream 

Fontainebleau 283 

1326. Cornucopias of Ice-Cream 283 

1327. Croquettes of Ice-Cream. . 284 

1328. Delmonico Ice-Cream 284 

1329. Egg Nogg (Frozen) 284 

1330. Grape-Juice Ice-Cream. . . 284 

1331. Kiss Ice-Cream 284 

1332. Marron Ice-Cream 284 

1333. Hazel-Nut Ice-Cream. .. . 284 

1334. Macaroon Ice-Cream 284 

1335. Maple and Nut Ice-Cream 284 

1336. Meringue Glac6s 285 

1337. Mint Ice-Cream 285 

1338. Nougat Ice-Cream 285 

1339. Orange Ice-Cream 286 



INDEX 



415 



NO. PAQB 

1340. Peach Ice-Cream with Bar- 

le-Duc 285 

1341. Peaches, Brandied with 

Ice-Cream (P6che Nor- 
dica) 285 

1342. Peaches and Pineapple 

with Ice-Cream {Peche 
Dame Blanche, Escof- 
fler) 285 

1343. Peaches and Ice-Cream 

with Red Baspberry 
Sirup (PBches Melba) . . 285 

1343. Pgche Melba 285 

1344. Peanut Ice-Cream 286 

1345. Peppermint Candy Ice- 

Cream (Southern Rec- 
ipe) 286 

1346. Pears with Ice-Cream 

(Poires HelSne, Escof- 
fler) 286 

1347. Pears on Ice-Cream (Mary 

Garden) 286 

1348. Pineapple Ice-Cream 286 

1349. Pineapple Ice-Cream with- 

out Cream 286 

1350. Pistachio Ice-Cream in 

Orange Jelly 287 

1351. Pumpkin Ice-Cream for 

Thanksgiving 287 

1352. Eice Ice-Cream, White or 

Yellow 287 

1353. Ice-Cream Snow Balls 287 

1354. Strawberries and Ice- 

Cream (St. Regis) 287 

1355. Strawberry Ice-Cream in 

Red Apples (The Plaza) 287 

1356. Violet Ice-Cream 288 

Biscuits, Fhozen While Stir- 

HINQ 288 

1357. Biscuit GlacS 288 

1358. " " Diplomats. . 288 

1359. " Tortoni 288 

1360. " and Strawberry 
Tortoni 289 

BoMBES, Frozen While Stih- 

RINQ 289 

1361. Blueberry Bombe 289 

1362. Coffee Cocoa Bombe 289 

1363. Italian Bombe 289 

1364. Melon and Peach Bombe. 289 

1365. Peach and Praline Bombe 289 

1366. Pistachio Bombe 289 

1367. Sultana Roll Bombe 290 

1368. Watermelon Bombe 290 

Coupes, FbozenWhilbStibhinq 290 



NO. PAGE 

1369. Coupes d' Amour 290 

1370. " Edna May (Escof- 
fler) 290 

1371. Coupes Jacques 291 

1372. " P6ches 291 

FRAPPfis, Frozen While Stir- 
ring 302 

1434. CafS FrappS 302 

1435. Chocolate FrappS 302 

1436. Fruit FrappS 302 

1436. Orange FrappS 302 

1437. Tea FrappS 302 

Ices, Frozen While Stirring 300 

1413. Fruit Ices 300 

1412. Lemon Ice 300 

1412. Orange Ice 300 

1411. Water Ice, Method 300 

Mousses, Frozen without 

Stirring 291 

1379. Apricot Mousse 292 

1373. BenedictineMoussein 

Lady-Finger Mould. . . 291 

1374. CafS Mousse with Burnt 

Almonds 291 

1375. Chocolate Mousse and Or- 

ange Tunisian 291 

1376. Grape-Juice Mousse 292 

1377. Melon Mousse 292 

1378. Orange Mousse 292 

1379. Peach Mousse 292 

1380. Pineapple Mousse 292 

1381. Red Raspberry Mousse... 292 

1382. Strawberry Mousse 292 

Muscovites, Frozen without 

Stirring 293 

1383. Bar-le-Duc Muscovite. .. . 293 

1384. Melon Muscovite 293 

1385. Peach Muscovite 293 

1385. Pineapple Muscovite 293 

1385. Strawberry Muscovite 293 

Parpaits, Frozen without 

Stirring 294 

1386. Almond Parfait 294 

1387. " and Cherry Parfait 294 

1388. CafS Parfait 294 

1389. " " Vienna Style 294 

1390. Caramel Parfait 295 

1392. Chocolate Parfait 295 

1391. Fig Parfait 295 

1393. Golden Parfait 295 

1394. Maple Parfait 297 



416 



INDEX 



NO. PAGH 

1395. Marron Parfait 295 

1396. Marshmallow Parfait with 

Cherries 296 

1397. Mocha Caramel Parfait. . . 296 

1398. Peach Parfait 296 

1399. Pistaclilo Parfait 296 

IWd. WUte Parfait with Hot 

Chocolate Sauce 296 

PtJDDiNG Glac6, Frozen with- 
out Stirring 297 

1401. Cabinet Chocolate Pud- 

ding GlacS 297 

1402. Fruit and Cocoanut Pud- 

ding Glac6 297 

1403. Marshmallow and Nut 

Pudding Glac§ 297 

1404. Nesselrode Pudding Glac6 298 

1405. Peach Pudding GlacS .... 298 

1405. Pineapple Pudding GlacS . 298 

1406. Plum Pudding GlacS 298 

Sherbets, Frozen While Stir- 
ring 300 

1414. Brandy and Sherry 300 

1415. Cardinal Sherbet 301 

1416. Champagne Sherbet 301 

1417. Claret Sherbet 301 

1418. Coffee Sherbet 301 

1419. Cider Sherbet 301 

1420. Grape-Fruit Sherbet 301 

1421. Crgme de Menthe Sherbet 301 

1422. CrSme Yvette (Violet) 

Sherbet 301 

1423. Ginger Sherbet 301 

1424. Lalla Eookh Sherbet 301 

1425. Mandarin Orange Sherbet 301 

1426. Maraschino Cherry Sher- 

bet 301 

1427. Mint Sherbet 302 

1429. Melon Sherbet 302 

1428. Orange Sherbet 302 

1430. Port Wine Sherbet 302 

1431. Boman Sherbet 302 

1432. Raspberry Sherbet with 

Cream 302 

1433. Watermelon Sherbet 302 

Souffles Glacis, Frozen with- 
out Stirring 298 

1407. Chocolate SoufflS au Sur- 

prise 299 

1408. Coffee SoufflS GlacS 299 

1409. Orange SoufflS GlacS 299 

1410. Strawberry SoufflS GlacS. . 299 
1410. Vanilla SoufflS GlacS 299 



NO. PAGE 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI, 

NOODLES, AND NUTS.. 167 

673. Macaroni with Mushrooms. 167 

674. Macaroni or Spaghetti, 

Spanish Style 167 

675. Macaroni with Tomato and 

Parmesan 167 

676. Noodles 168 

677. " with Braisle 168 

678. " " Cheese 168 

679. Noodle and Cheese Nuts.. . 168 

680. Chestnuts in Cream Sauce. 168 

681. Hazel Nuts in Hollandaise 

Sauce 168 

682. Nut Balls Baked with Brown 

Sauce 168 

683. Nut Croquettes 169 

684. " Loaf 169 

685. " and Mushrooms 169 

686. " Timbales 169 

687. Pecan and Potato Cro- 

quettes 169 

688. Spaghetti Cutlets 169 

689. Spaghetti with Tomato 

Sauce 170 

MEATS 81, 97, 114, 123 

Meats, Cooked Whole (Seb 

Meat Remotes) 123 

Meat and Poultbt ENTR:gES, 

Cold 114 

426. Beef Galantine 114 

427. Chicken in Aspic Mayon- 

naise 115 

428. Chicken or Game Cream in 

Aspic 115 

429. Chicken, Duck, Birds, or 

Turkey, Boned 115 

430. Chicken Chaud-froid 115 

431. " Fillets withRe- 
moulade Sauce 115 

432. Chicken Galantine 115 

433. " Legs in Chaud- 
froid Sauce 116 

434. Chicken Mousse 116 

435. " " with Celery 
Sauce 116 

436. Chicken and Ham Mousse. . 116 

437. Duck Farci 116 

438. Ham and Eggs in Aspic . . . . 117 

439. Ham Farci 117 

440. " Mousse 117 

441. " Rondelles 117 



INDEX 



417 



NO. PAOII 

442. Lamb or Veal Chops Chaud- 

froid 118 

443. Lamb Chops in Jellied May- 

onnaise 118 

444. Lamb Cutlets with Green 

Peas Pm'fie 118 

445. Lamb Tongue in Jelly 118 

446. Liver Cutlets Glazed or 

Mock Foie Gras 118 

447. Pate de Foie Gras in Jelly 119 

448. Pat6 de Foie Gras Mousse . 119 

449. Sweetbreads in Aspic 119 

450. Sweetbread Mousse 119 

451. Turkey Pie 119 

452. Veal Jelly Mould 120 

453. •' Loaf 120 

454. " and Ham Pie 120 

455. " Rolls Chaud-froid 120 

Meat Entries, Light 81 

274. Beef Marrow Bones on 

Toast 81 

275. Beef Tongue with Cardinal 

Sauce 81 

276. Lamb Croquettes 81 

277. " Souffle 81 

278. " Tongue Salmi 81 

279. Lamb's Kidneys Broiled 82 

280. " " Deviled... 82 

281. " " and Mush- 

rooms, Sauted 82 

282. Liver with Mushrooms .... 82 

283. Pate de Foie Gras Rissoles.. 82 

284. Salmagundi 83 

285. Savory Bouchees 83 

286. Savory Darioles 83 

287. Savory Sandwiches HoUan- 

daise 83 

288. Sausage Bundles 83 

289. Sweetbreads to Blanch. ... 83 

290. " Baked under 
Bells 84 

291. Sweetbreads Baked and 

Glazed 84 

292. Sweetbreads Baked au Jar- 

diniere 84 

293. Sweetbreads Masked and 

Baked 85 

294. Sweetbreads Stuffed and 

Baked 85 

295. Sweetbreads Broiled with 

Ham and Mushrooms. . 85 

396. Sweetbreads Broiled with 

Mushroom Puree 85 

297. Sweetbreads Chartreuse. .. 85 



NO. FAQB 

298. Sweetbreads and Chicken 

Creamed 86 

299. Sweetbreads Creamed in 

Cucumber Boats 86 

300. Sweetbreads Creamed 3: la 

Poulette 86 

301. Sweetbread Croquettes ... . 86 

302. Sweetbreads Curried 86 

303. " Fried 86 

312. " Mock 88 

304. " and Mush- 
rooms in Green Peppers 87 

305. Sweetbreads Ragout 87 

306. " Sauted 87 

307. Sweetbreads Sauted au 

Beurre Noir 87 

308. Sweetbreads Sauted with 

Noodles, Spanish Style 87. 

309. Sweetbreads Souffle 87 

310. " in Timbale 
Cases 88 

311. Sweetbreads and Truffles 

Sauted 88 

312. Veal Chops Minced 88 

313. " Croquettes 88 

314. " Quenelles 88 

315. " Timbales 88 

Meat EntsAes, Sdbstantial. . 97 

355. Beef en Casserole 97 

356. " Rolls, Stuffed 97 

357. " Ragout, Hungarian 

Goulash 98 

358. Beef FiUets 98 

359. " " Mignon or Tour- 

nedos 98 

360. Fillets Mignon Deviled 99 

361. " " Stuffed 99 

362. Beefsteak 99 

363. " Chateaubriand.. 99 

364. " Chateaubriand, 
ordinary method 99 

365. Beefsteak en Casserole 100 

366. " Fillets, Farci 100 

367. " Vienna Style 100 

368. " Planked 101 

369. " with Port Wine 
Sauce 101 

370. Beefsteak Smothered in 

Onions 101 

371. Calf's Head with Parsley 

Sauce 101 

372. Calf s Head i. la Vinaigrette 101 

373. " Liver en Casserole. . . 102 

374. " Tongues 102 



418 



INDEX 



NO. PAGE 

355. Chilli con Caml, Algerian 

Style 97 

375. Lamb Chops 102 

376. " " with Cham- 

pagne Sauce 102 

377. Lamb Chops with Chest- 

nuts 102 

378. Lamb Chops en Casserole. . 103 

379. " " au Julienne. . . 103 

380. " " Masked 103 

381. " " Piquant 103 

382. " " withSoubise 

Sauce 103 

383. Lamb Chops SuprSme 104 

384. " " Stuflted and 

Cooked in Paper Bag. . 104 

385. Lamb Chops with White 

Wine Sauce 104 

386. Lamb en Casserole 104 

387. " and Ham Fillets 104 

388. Lamb Steals Stufled and 

Boiled 105 

389. Mutton Chops, English 105 

390. Pork Tenderloin, Baked ... 105 

391. Veal en Casserole 105 

392. Veal Collops (Wiener 

Schnitzel) 106 

393. Veal Cutlets Breaded and 

Sauted 106 

394. Veal Cutlets and Mush- 

rooms in Batter 106 

395. Veal and Oyster Pie 106 

396. " Pot Pie 107 

397. " Ragout au Parmesan 107 

398. " Boll, Glazed 107 

392. Wiener Schnitzel 106 

MeatBemoves (Cooked Whole) 123 

456. Beef Fillet 123 

457. " " of the Holland 

Tea Boom 123 

458. Beef Fillet Tenderloin with 

Crust 123 

469. Beef Roasted with York- 
shire Pudding 123 

460. Beef 3, la Mode 124 

461. Beef 3, la Mode with To- 

matoes 124 

460. Beef Pot Boast 124 

462. Beef Pot Roast, Spanish 

Style 125 

463. Beef, Poeled with Mirepoix 125 

464. Lamb Boasted 125 

465. " Crown Boasted 125 



NO. PAQB 

466. Lamb Boasted in Paper 

Bag, Yearling 126 

467. Mutton Boiled 126 

468. " Fillet Supreme 126 

469. " Leg Stuffed 126 

470. " Saddle Boasted. . . 127 

471. Pork 127 

472. Ham Baked 127 

472. " BoUed 127 

473. Pork Roasted 127 

474. Crown Boast of Pork 128 

475. Little Pig Boasted 128 

476. Veal 128 

477. " Fricandeau 128 

478. " Boll Boasted 129 

479. " with Sour Cream Sauce 129 

Omelettes, Savobt 226 

" Souffles 259 

Otbtebs on the Shell 29 

Pastrt, See Desserts 266 

POULTRY 80 

Poultry Entries, Cold 114 

PotTLTBT Entries, Light 89 

316. Chicken for EntrSes 89 

317. " BSchamel in Fancy 
Cases 89 

318. Chicken Chop Suey 89 

319. " Creamed 89 

320. " Creamed a la King 90 

321. " Creamed with 
Mushrooms and TnifBes 90 

322. Chicken Creamed, Onon- 

daga Style 90 

323. Chicken Creamed i la Pou- 

lette 90 

324. Chicken Creamed in Rice 

Chartreuse , 90 

325. Chicken Creamed in Bice 

Croustades 90 

326. Chicken Croquettes 91 

327. " Croquette Apples 

en Surprise 91 

328. Chicken Croquettes Su- 

prSme 91 

329. Chicken and Sweet Potato 

Croquettes 92 

330. Chicken Fillets 92 

331. " FiUets Deviled and 
Broiled 92 

332. Chicken Fillets with Mush- 

rooms, Stufled 92 



INDEX 



419 



NO. PAOB 

333. Chicken Fillets with Sauce 

Supreme 92 

334. Chicken Livers and Arti- 

chokes 92 

335. Chicken Livers and Noodles 93 

336. Chicken Livers and PatS de 

Pole Gras 93 

337. Chicken Mousses and Mous- 

selines 93 

338. Chicken Mousse with As- 

paragus 93 

339. Chicken Mousselines, B6ch- 

amel 93 

340. Chicken Liver Mousselines 94 

341. " Quenelles 94 

342. " Eagout Espagnole 94 

343. " Eissoles in Noodle 
Paste 94 

344. Chicken Shortcakes 94 

345. " SoufflSs 94 

346. " and Cheese Soufflg 95 

347. " Timbales 95 

348. " Timbales with Car- 
dinal Sauce 95 

349. Chicken Timbales with 

Mushrooms, Sweetbreads, 
or Peas 95 

350. Chicken Terrapin 96 

351. " TolauVent 96 

352. Turkey EntrSes 96 

353. " with Chestnuts and 

Pufl Paste Biscuits 96 

354. Turkey Tetrazzini, Knicker- 

bocker 96 

Poultry Entries, Substantial 107 

399. Chicken Baked or Broiled 108 

400. " Fillets 108 

401. " Fillets.Bakedwith 
Cream Sauce 108 

402. Chicken Fillets en Casse- 

role, au JardiniSre 108 

403. Chicken Fillets en Casse- 

role, with Mushrooms 
and Peas 109 

404. Chicken Fillets en Casse- 

role, with Okra and To- 
matoes 109 

405. Chicken Fillets Curried 109 

406. Chicken Fillets Deviled and 

Broiled 109 

407. Chicken Fillets Fried with 

Cream Sauce 109 

408. Chicken Fillets Masked 

and Baked 110 

409. CUcken Fillets Sautgd with 

Cream Almond Sauce.. 110 



NO. FAOB 

410. Chicken Fillets SautM on 

Toast 110 

411. Chicken Fillets Supreme.... 110 

412. Chicken Fricassee White or 

Brown 110 

413. Chicken Fricassee Espa- 

gnole Ill 

414. Chicken Saut6d with As- 

paragus Tips Ill 

415. Chicken SautSd with Ham 

and Pimento Balls Ill 

416. Chicken SautSd or Fried & 

la Maryland 112 

417. Chicken SautSd with Pi- 

mento Timbales 112 

418. Chicken Pie 112 

419. Chicken Pie, English Style 112 

420. Duckling Brezists with Hom- 

iny 113 

421. Guinea Chicken Breasts, 

BSamaise 113 

422. Guinea Chicken Breasts, 

en Casserole 113 

423. Guinea Chicken Fricasseed 114 

424. Guinea SautSd, BSamaise 114 

Poultry Removes (Cooked 

Whole) 129 

480. Chicken Baked, BSchamel. . 129 

481. " Deviled and Baked 130 

482. " Baked S, la Pou- 
lette 130 

483. Chicken Boiled with Cream 

Sauce 130 

484. Chicken en Casserole 130 

485. " en Casserole, Hun- 
garian Style 131 

486. Chicken en Casserole with 

Vegetables 131 

487. Chicken en Cocotte, French 

Style 131 

488. Chicken Roasted with 

Chestnuts 132 

488. Chicken Roasted with 

Mushrooms 132 

489. Chicken Deviled and 

Roasted 132 

490. Chicken Boasted with Ham 132 

491. Chicken Roasted with Oys- 

ter Sauce 133 

492. Chicken Roasted in Paper 

Bag 133 

493. Capon Boiled with PurSe of 

Mushroom Sauce 133 

494. Capon ComplSt in Casse- 

role 133 



420 



INDEX 



NO. PAOB 

487. Capon en Cocotte, French 

Style 131 

495. Ducks or Ducklings Roasted 

with Cherry Sauce .... 134 

496. Ducks Boasted with Green- 

Grape Sauce 134 

497. Ducks Boasted, Stuffed 

with Mushrooms 134 

498. Ducks Boasted with Olives. 134 

499. Ducklings with Oranges 134 

500. Duck Salmi 135 

501. Goose Boasted 135 

502. Guinea Chickens 135 

SOS. Guinea Chickens Boasted 

with Celery and Mush- 
room Stuffing 135 

504. Guinea Chickens Boasted 
with Malaga Grape 
Stuffing 136 

605. Guinea Chickens Boasted 

with Prunes 136 

607. Turkey Broiled 136 

508. " Boasted 136 

509. " Boasted with Truf- 

fle Sauce 137 

PEESEBVES AND PICKLES 370 
Pbesbbves, Sweet Pickles, ETC. 370 

1795. Apple Mint Jelly 370 

1796. Apples Brandied 370 

1797. Black-Currant Jelly 370 

1798. Carrot Conserve 370 

1799. Cherries Canned without 

Cooking 371 

1800. Cherry Conserve 371 

1801. Chestnuts Preserved 371 

1802. Cranberry or Currant Con- 

serve 371 

1803. Currant and Bed-Basp- 

berry Jelly 372 

1807. Grape-Frult Marmalade.. 372 

1804. Grape Marmalade 372 

1805. Green-Gage Jam 372 

1806. Green-Grape Mint Jelly . . 372 

1807. Orange Marmalade with 

Almonds 372 

1808. Orange Preserve Tunisian. 372 

1809. Peaches Brandied with 

Cherries 373 

1810. Peaches Canned without 

Cooking 373 

1811. Peach Marmalade 373 

1812. Peaches Stuffed and 

Pickled 373 



NO. PAOS 

1810. Pears Canned without 

Cooking 373 

1813. Pineapple Pickled 374 

1814. Pineapple and Strawber- 

ries Preserved without 
Cooking 374 

1815. Tomatoes Pickled Whole 374 

1816. Yellow Egg Tomato Sweets 374 
1814. Strawberries Preserved 

without Cooking 374 

1817. SweetKed Peppers Pickled 374 
Pickles, Catsups, etc 375 

1818. Chilli Sauce 375 

1819. Cucumber Catsup Un- 

cooked 375 

1821. Green Peppers Stuffed. .. . 375 

1820. GreenTomato Sweet Pickle 375 

1821. Mangoes 375 

1822. Mixed Pickle 375 

1823. Pepper Hash 376 

1824. Pickled Oysters 376 

1825. Tomato Catsup 376 

1826. Tomato Catsup Uncooked 376 

EELISHES TO SEBVE WITH 

MEATS AND POULTRY 183 

777. Apple Sauce 183 

778. " Croquettes 183 

779. Apples Stuffed 183 

780. Apple Sauce made with Ci- 

der 183 

781. Bananas Baked 184 

782. Banana Croquettes 184 

781. Bananas Sautfid 184 

783. Cranberry Sauce or Jelly. . 184 

784. Prune Relish 184 

785. Pickle Relish 184 

786. Rice Croquette Apple en 

Surprise 184 

SALADS 199 

Salad Accebbobies 21s 

953. Bread Sticks Baked 218 

953. " " Fried 218 

954. Brown-Bread Bolls 218 

955. Cheese Biscuit 218 

956. " " Golden 218 

957. '■ Crescents 218 

959. " Muffins 219 

958. " Blngs and Straws... 218 

960. " Toast, Hot 219 

961. " Wafers, Hot 219 



INDEX 



421 



NO. PAOH 

962. Knots to Serve with Salad 219 

963. Sliced Beef Wafers 219 

Salad Dbessings 199 

844. Cooked Dressing 199 

845. French Dressing 199 

846. French Dressing and Cheese 

with Pimentoes 200 

847. French Dressing Chiflonade 200 

848. '■ " with Chilli 
Sauce 200 

849. French Dressing with Cream 200 

850. " " with Nuts. 200 

851. Mayonnaise Dressing 201 

852. ■' Cardinal 201 

853. " Cream Dress- 
ing 201 

854. Mayonnaise Jelly Dressing 201 

855. " Cucumber 201 

856. " Hollandaise... 201 

857. " Piquaute 202 

858. " Raspberry 202 

859. " Eavigote 202 

860. " with Sardines . 202 

861. " Tomato 202 

862. Whipped Cream Dressing.. 202 
Salads of Fkuits 215 

936. Apple and Grape-Fruit 

Salad 215 

937. Banana Salad 215 

938. " Boats 215 

939. Cherry Salad 215 

940. Chestnut and Fruit Salad . . 215 

941. Grape Salad 216 

942. Grape-Fruit and Peach 

Salad 216 

943. Grape-Fruit and Pineapple 

Salad 216 

944. Lemon Jelly and Fruit Salad 216 

945. Melon Salad, Cantaloupe or 

Watermelon 216 

946. Mixed Fruit Salad 216 

947. Orange Salad to Serve with 

Duck 217 

948. Peach Salad 217 

948. Pear Salad 217 

949. " " Stuffed 217 

950. " " Waldorf Style.. 217 
948. Plum Salad 217 

951. Pineapple and Celery Salad 217 

952. Prune Salad 217 

947. Tangerine Salad to Serve 

with Duck 217 



NO. PAQB 

Salads op Meats and Vhqii- 

TABLBS 202 

863. Alligator Pear Salad 202 

864. Artichoke Salad (Jockey 

Club) 203 

865. Artichoke in Aspic 203 

866. " and Orange Salad 

for Game 203 

867. Asparagus Salad 203 

868. Beet and Apple Salad 

(Bleeding Hearts) 203 

869. Beets Stuffed with Salad. . . 203 

870. Cabbage Salad 203 

871. Cabbage Salad, English 

Style 204 

872. Cauliflower Salad with 

Curry 204 

873. Celery, Apple, and Ham 

Salad 204 

874. Celery and Artichoke Salad 204 

875. " Salad in Cheese 

(Dutch Salad) 204 

876. Celery Salad with Sauterne 

Dressing 204 

877. Celeriac Salad 204 

878. Cheese and Bar-le-Duc 204 

879. " Jelly Salad 205 

880. " and Vegetable Salad 205 

881. Chicken Salad 205 

882. " " Blanche 205 

883. " " Eavigote... 205 

884. Chiflonade Salad 206 

885. Cucumber Salad 206 

886. " Cream Salad .. . 206 

887. " Farci Salad 206 

888. " Salad in Green 
Peppers 207 

889. Cucumber Jelly Salad 207 

890. Crab-Meat Salad 207 

891. Egg Salad 207 

892. " Crown for Salad 207 

893. " Daisy Salad 207 

894. " Lily Salad 208 

895. Eggs and Tomato SalEid 203 

896. Egg-Plant Salad 208 

897. Endive 208 

899. French Endive 208 

897. Escarole 208 

900. Julienne Salad, Cardinal . . . 208 

897. Lettuce 208 

898. Lettuce Boston Hearts, Ho- 

tel Martinique 208 

897. Eomaine 208 



422 



INDEX 



KO. PAGE 

901. Romaine with Port du Salut 209 

902. " or French Endive, 
Kurolsi 209 

903. Liver Salad 209 

904. Lobster Salad 209 

905. Macedoine Salad 209 

906. Manhattan Salad 209 

907. Onion Salad, California 

Style 209 

908. Onion Salad, Texas Style... 210 

909. Potato Salad 210 

911. " " German Style 210 

910. " " Lattice 210 

912. Bice Salad 210 

913. Salmon Salad Moulds 210 

914. Scallop and Shrimp Salad, 

Russian Style 211 

915. Shad Boe Salad 211 

916. Shrimp Salad 211 

917. Shrimp Jelly Salad 211 

918. Spinach Salad Balls 211 

919. String Bean Salad 211 

920. Sweetbread Salsid 211 

921. Sweetbread Salad, St. Begis 

Style 212 

922. Tomato Baskets, a Salad . . 212 

923. " Creams, Salad 212 

924. " withCheese Cream 212 

925. " and Pineapple 
Salad 212 

926. Tomato Stuffed with Salads 212 

927. " Salad Frozen 213 

928. " Jelly Salad 213 

929. Tomatoes in Tomato Jelly. 214 

930. " Eavigote 214 

931. Vegetable Salad Bavigote . . 214 

932. Violet Salad 214 

933. Waldorf Salad 1912 214 

934. Water-Cress and Apple 

Salad 214 

935. Yellow Egg Tomato Salad. . 214 

SANDWICHES OP ALL 

KINDS 378 

Sandwiches, Savobt 378 

1828. Ahnond 378 

1829. Anchovy 378 

1830. Beefstealc (for the picnic 

hamper) 378 

1831. Caviar 378 

1832. Celery 378 

1833. Cheese and Chilli Sauce . . 378 



NO. pagb 

1834. Cheese Deviled, in BisCTiits 378 

1835. " and Marmalade .. . 378 

1836. " " Pimento 378 

1837. " " Pineapple.... 379 

1838. " Bochefort 379 

1839. " Sandwiches, Hot.. 379 

1840. Chicken 379 

1841. " and Bacon (Pat- 
ties) 379 

1842. Chicken and Ham 379 

1843. " Liver 379 

1844. Club Sandwich with Ba- 

con 379 

1845. Club Sandwich with Ham 380 

1846. Club Sandwich with Sar- 

dines 380 

1847. Club Sandwich on un- 

toasted Bread with 
Boiled Dressing 380 

1848. Cucumber 380 

1849. Crab-Meat 380 

1850. Egg 380 

1851. Endive 380 

1851. Escarole 380 

1852. Garnished 381 

1853. Green 381 

1854. Green Pepper 381 

1855. Harlequin 381 

1856. Ham Sandwich, Hot 381 

1857. " and Veal Sandwiches 381 
1851. Lettuce 380 

1858. Lobster 381 

1859. Lobster and Cheese 382 

1860. Mock Crab 382 

1861. Nasturtium Sandwiches. . . 382 

1862. Nut 382 

1863. Pate de foie gras 382 

1827. Patty Sandwiches 377 

1864. Ribbon 382 

1865. Salmon 382 

1866. Shrimp 382 

1867. Sweetbread 382 

1868. Tartare 382 

1869. Tomato 383 

1857. Tongue and Veal Sand- 
wiches 381 

1870. Truffle 383 

1851. Water-Cress 380 

Sandwich Fillinos that Men 

Like 383 

Sandwiches, Sweet 383 



INDEX 



423 



NO. PAGE 

1871. Bananas and Bed-Basp- 

berry 383 

1872. Bar-le-Duc 383 

1873. Cherry and Nut 383 

1874. Cocoanut 383 

1875. Date 384 

1876. Flower 384 

1877. Honey 384 

1878. Maple-Sugar 384 

1879. Maraschino Cherry 384 

1880. Orange Marmalade and 

Cheese 384 

1881. Spice 384 

SAUCES FOR ICE-CREAMS 

AND ICES 303 

Cold Sauces 303 

1440. Brandy Sauce 303 

1441. " " Frozen.... 303 

1438. Claret Sauce 303 

1439. Coffee Cream Sauce 303 

1442. Maraschino Sauce 303 

1443. Marshmallow Sauce 303 

1444. Red-Raspberry Sauce. .. . 303 

1445. Rum Sauce 303 

1438. Sauteme Sauce 303 

1440. Sherry Sauce 303 

Hot Sauces 304 

1446. Caramel Nut Sauce 304 

1447. Coffee Sauce 304 

1448. Chocolate Sauce 304 

1451. Fruit Sauce 304 

1449. Fudge Sauce 304 

1450. Mocha Caramel Sauce. . . . 304 

1452. Orange Sauce 304 

SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS ... 275 
Cold Sauces 275 

1266. Boiled Custard 275 

1283. Brandy Sauce 276 

1267. Brown Sugar Sauce 275 

1268. Caramel Sauce 275 

1269. " Coffee Sauce .... 275 

1270. Claret Sauce 275 

1271. Coffee Sauce 275 

1272. Creamy Sauce 275 

1273. Egg Sauce 275 

1274. Frozen Sauce 276 

1275. Fruit Sauce 276 

1276. Hard Sauce Cream 276 

1277. Jelly Sauce 276 



NO. PAQH 

1278. Maple Sugar Sauce 276 

1279. " Sirup Sauce 276 

1280. " and Pecan Sauce. . 276 

1281. Orange Sauce 276 

1282. Pistachio Sauce 276 

1283. Rum Sauce 276 

1284. Whipped Cream Sauce. . . 277 

1285. " " Butter 
Sauce 277 

1286. Yellow Sauce 277 

Hot Sauces 277 

1287. Apricot Sauce 277 

1288. Banana Sauce 277 

1289. Brandy Sauce 277 

1290. " " Cardinal... 277 

1291. Caramel Nut Sauce 277 

1292. Chocolate Sauce 278 

1293. Cream Brandy Sauce 278 

1294. " Sherry Sauce 278 

1295. " Butter Sauce 278 

1296. Currant Jelly Sauce 278 

1297. Fairy Butter Sauce 278 

1298. Foam Sauce 278 

1299. Fruit Sauce 278 

1300. Maple Sauce 278 

1301. Mousseline Sauce 278 

1302. Orange Sauce 279 

1303. " Cream Sauce 279 

1287. Pea* Sauce 277 

1304. Plain Sauce 279 

1305. Soft Sauce 279 

1306. Sherry Sauce 279 

1307. Vanilla Sauce 279 

SAUCES, SAVORY, FOR 
MEATS, VEGETABLES, 

AND POULTRY 171 

Cold Sauces igo 

757. Anchovy Sauce iso 

758. Celery Sauce igo 

759. Cream Sauce igo 

760. Cucumber Sauce iso 

761. Egg Sauce iso 

762. Horseradish Sauce igl 

763. Maltre d'HOtel Sauce 181 

764. Miistard Sauce isi 

765. Orange Sauce 181 

766. Pepper Sauce isi 

767. Ravigote Sauce 181 

768. Remoulade Sauce 181 

769. Sardine Sauce isi 



424 



INDEX 



JtO. PAGE 

770. Tartare Sauce 181 

772. Tomato Sauce 182 

771. " Tartare 182 

773. Vinaigrette Sauce 182 

774. Vinegar Sauce 182 

Hot Sauces 171 

695. Allemande Sauce 172 

696. Ancliovy Sauce 172 

697. Asparagus Sauce 172 

698. Bgamaise Sauce 173 

699. Bechamel Sauce 173 

700. ■' and Bacon Sauce 173 

701. Blacls Butter (Beurre Noir) 173 

702. Bread Sauce for Game 173 

690. Brown Sauce 171 

691. " " to be Kept on 

Hand 171 

703. Caper Sauce 173 

704. Cliampagne Sauce 174 

705. Cheese Sauce 174 

723. Colbert Sauce 176 

706. Cucumber Sauce 174 

708. Chestnut Sauce 174 

707. Chicken Sauce 174 

709. Chive Sauce 174 

710. Claret Sauce 174 

692. Cream Sauce 172 

711. Currant Jelly Sauce 174 

712. " " and Mint 
Sauce 174 

713. Curry Sauce 174 

714. Diable Sauce 174 

693. Drawn Butter Sauce 172 

715. Egg Sauce 175 

716. Espagnole Sauce 175 

717. Gherkin Sauce 175 

718. Green Pepper Sauce 175 

719. Hollandaise Rich Sauce. . . 175 
72tev " Cream Sauce. . 175 

721. " Orange Sauce . 175 

722. " Plain Sauce. . . 176 

723. " Sauce with 
Stock (Colbert Sauce) . . 176 

724. Horseradish Sauce 176 

693. Hot Water Sauce (Drawn 

Butter) 172 

725. Lobster Sauce 176 

726. " and Oyster Sauce. . 176 

727. Madeira Sauce 176 

728. Marsala Sauce 176 

729. Marrow Sauce 177 



NO. FAOB 

730. Mint Sauce 177 

731. Mousseline Sauce 177 

732. Mushroom Brown Sauce ... 177 

733. " White Sauce. . . 177 

734. Mustard Sauce 177 

735. Olive Sauce 177 

736. Onion Sauce (Sauce Sou- 

bice) 177 

737. Orange Sauce 178 

738. Oyster Sauce 178 

739. Pepper Sauce 178 

740. Piquante Sauce 178 

741. Port Wine Sauce 178 

742. Bavigote Sauce 178 

743. Bed Sauce 178 

744. Robert Sauce 178 

745. Russian Sauce 178 

746. Shrimp Sauce 179 

747. Sorrel Sauce 179 

748. Spanish Sauce 179 

749. Supreme Sauce 179 

750. Tomato Sauce 179 

751. " " (Cardinal).. 179 

752. " Cream Sauce 179 

753. Transparent Sauce 179 

754. Truffled Mushroom Sauce. . 180 

755. VeloutS Sauce 180 

756. " Wine Sauce 180 

694. White Sauce 172 

Shell Fish 70 

SOME ACCESSORIES 340 

1635. Delicious Candy 340 

1636. Fondant, Uncooked 340 

1637. Glac6 for Fruits and Nuts 340 

1638. Mandarins Glac6d 341 

1639. Maple Sugar and Nut 

Candy 341 

1640. Marrons Glacg 341 

1641. Paste Bonbons 341 

1642. Dates Stuffed 341 

1643. Olives 341 

1644. Salted Nuts 341 

SOUPS 36 

Stocks fob Soups and Sauces 37 

63. Beef Stock 37 

64. Chicken Stock 37 

65. White Stock 37 

66. Meat Essence 37 



INDEX 



425 



JK>. PAGB 

BiBQUB Soups (Seb Method) 50 

137. Bisque of Clam or Oyster.. 50 

138. " " Crab 50 

139. " " Lobster 50 

140. " •• Oyster 50 

141. " " Oyster Gumbo . . 50 

142. " " Shrimp 51 

67. Bouillons 88 

Chowdbrs 51 

143. Chowders of Clams 51 

144. " " Com 51 

145. " " Fish 51 

Cleab Soups, Method 38 

67. Bouillon Beef 38 

68. " Chicken 38 

69. " Clam 38 

69. " Oyster 38 

Cold Soups 53 

153. Bouillon or ConsommS Iced 54 

154. " of Clam and Chick- 
en Iced 54 

155. Fruit Soup oi 

Consommes, Method 39 

70. Consommg of Meat 39 

71. " " Chicken 39 

72. " " Game 40 

Consommes with Different 

Seasoninqb aivD Garnish- 

INQS 40 

73. Consoiiuu§ with Almonds. . . 40 

74. " " Cheese Balls 40 

75. " Chicken with 
Chestnuts 40 

76. Consommg Chicken with 

Lettuce 40 

77. ConsommS Chicken with 

Chicken Quenelles , 40 

78. ConsommS with Colored 

Pearls 40 

79. ConsommS with Cucumber. . 40 

80. " Chicken with 
Curry 40 

81. ConsommS with Egg Balls. . 41 

82. " "Marrow 
BaUs 41 

83. ConsommS with Mushrooms 41 

84. " Neapolitan 41 

85. " with Noodles .. . 41 

86. " " Pancakes.. 41 

87. " " PatSs 41 

88. " " Pimentoes. . 42 

89. " " Port Wine 
and Julienne Vegetables.. 42 



NO. PAGE 

90. ConsommS Printanier 42 



91. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 



matoes . 



with Bice Balls, . . 
" Hoy ales.... 
" Sweetbreads 
" Timbales... 
Yellow To- 



42 
42 
42 
42 

43 



Cream Soups, Method 43 

96. Cream of Almonds 43 

97. " "Artichokes 43 

98. " " Asparagus Soup.. 44 

99. " " Beans 44 

100. " " Beets 44 

100. " "Carrots 44 

101. " "Cauliflower 44 

102. " " Celery 44 

103. " "Chestnuts 44 

104. " "Chicken 44 

105. " " Com 45 

106. " " Cucumber 45 

107. " " Green Peas, St. 
Germain 45 

108. Cream of Lettuce 45 



109. 
110. 
111. 
112. 
113. 
108. 
110. 
115. 
116. 
118. 
117. 



Mushrooms 45 

Onion 45 

Oysters 46 

Peanut 46 

Potato 46 

Sorrel 45 

Soubise 45 

Succotash 46 

Tomato 46 

Vegetables 47 

Water-Cress 46 



Garnishings fob Soups 54 

156. Cheese Balls 54 

157. " Fritter Beans 54 

158. Croutons 54 

159. Croutons Koyal 55 

160. Egg Balls 55 

161. Noodle Croutons 55 

162. Bice Balls 55 

Pur4b Soups, Method 47 

119. PurSe of Barley and To- 

mato 47 

120. PurSe of Bean or Black- 

Bean 47 

121. PurSe of Carrot 48 

122. " " Celery 48 

123. " "Chestnut 48 

124. " " Chicken , 48 



426 



INDEX 



XO. PAGB 

125. Purge of Chicken Liver 48 

126. and To- 
mato 48 

127. Purge of Green Pea 48 

128. " " Mongole American 48 

129. " " Mushrooms 49 

130. " "Pimento 49 

131. " " Potato, Julienne.. 49 

132. " " Sorrel 49 

133. " " Split Pea 49 

134. " " Tomato 49 

135. " •• Turkey 49 

136. " " Vienna (Potage 
Mongole) 49 

Unclassified Soufb 52 

146. Beet-Boot Soup (Russian 

Bortsch) 52 

147. Chicken Gumbo 52 

148. Green Turtle 52 

149. Mock Turtle 52 

150. Mulligatawney 53 

151. Ox-Tail Soup 53 

152. Terrapin Soup 53 

STUFFINGS FOB MEATS 

AND POULTBY 137 

510. Apple and Celery StufiBng 

for Duck or Goose 137 

511. Apple and Prune StufiHng . . 137 

512. Bread Stuffing 137 

613. Chestnut Stuffing 137 

514. Mushroom StufBng 137 

515. Potato and Nut Stuffing for 

Boast Goose 138 

VEGETABLES AND VEGE- 
TABLE ENTREES 139 

516. Artichokes, Entrge 139 

517. " Broiled 140 

518. " in Cream, En- 
trge 140 

519. Artichokes, Fried 140 

.520. " in Ramekins, 

Entrge 140 

521. Artichokes Roasted 140 

522. " Stuffed, Entrge. 140 

523. Asparagus, Entrge 140 

524. " Fried 141 

525. •' in Rolls, Entrge 141 

526. Bean Croquettes, Entrge . . 141 

527. Beans, Red Kidney 141 

628. Beans, Red Kidney, with To- 
mato and Pimento Purge 141 



NO. FASa 

529. Beans, String, Braisle 141 

530. Beets 142 

531. Brussels Sprouts with Chest- 

nuts 142 

532. Brussels Sprouts with Sau- 

sages, Entrge 142 

533. Cabbage and Apples Vinai- 

grette 142 

534. Cabbage au Gratin 142 

535. " Hot Slaw, German 
Style 142 

536. Cabbage Stuffed, Entree. . . 143 

537. " with Tomatoes, 
Entrge 143 

538. Carrots in Cream 143 

539. Carrot Croquettes, Entrge . 143 

540. Carrots Fried 143 

541. " Glazed 143 

542. " au Gratin 143 

543. " and Green Pea Pu- 
rge 144 

544. Carrots with Poulette Sauce 144 
534. Cauliflower au Gratin 142 

545. " Braisle 144 

546. " Fritters 144 

547. Celery Braised 144 

548. " Fried 144 

549. Cucumbers Boiled 144 

550. " Fried 145 

551. " au Gratin 145 

552. " Stuffed en Siu'- 
prise, Entrge 145 

553. Cucumber Timbales, Entrge 145 

554. Egg-Plant Croustades, En- 

trge 145 

555. Egg-Plant Fried, French 

Straws 146 

556. Egg-Plant Fritters 146 

557. " " au Gratin 146 

558. " " Souffig 146 

559. " " Stuffed, Entrge. . 146 

560. Endive Braised, Entrge 147 

561. Green Com Fritters 147 

562. " " au Gratin, En- 
trge 147 

563. Green Com Timbales, En- 

trge 147 

564. Green Peas in Cream or 

Butter 148 

565. Green Peas in Croustades, 

Entrge 148 

566. Green Peas in Lettuce 148 

567. Purge 14» 



INDEX 



427 



NO. PAQE 

56S. Green Peasin Timbales, 

Entrge 148 

569. Japanese Crowns 148 

570. Kale Boiled 149 

571. Kohlrabi au Gratin 149 

572. Lettuce Braised 149 

573. Mushrooms Baked 149 

574. " " under 
Bells, Entrge 149 

575. Mushrooms Baked with 

Oysters, Entr§e 149 

576. Mushrooms Broiled, EntrSe 150 

577. " Deviled and 
Broiled 150 

578. Mushrooms Creamed for 

Ramekins, etc 150 

579. Mushrooms Creamed i la 

Poulette, Entree 150 

580. Mushrooms and Pimentoes 

in Croustades, EntrSe ... ISO 

581. Mushroom Cutlets, EntrSe. 150 

582. " au Gratin, En- 
tr6e 150 

583. Mushroom Pufl-BaUs 151 

584. " Purfie 151 

585. '■ Stuffed, Entr6e. 151 

586. " " with 
Pate de Foie Gras, En- 
tr6e 151 

587. Mushroom Timbales, En- 

trSe 152 

588. Onions Boiled, with Sauce . 152 

589. " French Fried 152 

590. " au Gratin 152 

591. " Sauted 152 

592. " SoufflB, In Moulds. . 152 

593. " Stuffed, EntrSe 153 

594. Okra with Tomatoes 153 

595. Oyster Plant Fried or 

Stewed 153 

596. Parsnip Fritters 153 

597. Peppers, Green, Broiled. . . 153 

597. " " Sauted 153 

598. " " Stuffed, 
EntrSe 153 

599. Peppers, Sweet Bed, Baked. 154 

600. " '• " Stuffed 
and Fried, Mexican Style, 
Entrfie 155 

601. Peppers, Sweet Red. Tim- 

bales, Entree 155 

599. Pimentoes Baked, Entree. 154 
601. " Timbales, En- 



tree. 



155 



NO. PAGE 

602. Potato Balls 155 

603. " Baked in Slices. . . . 155 

604. " Boiled with Egg 
Sauce 155 

605. Potato Boiled with Hollan- 

daise Sauce 155 

606. Potato Boiled in Olives with 

Tomato Butter 156 

607. Potato Broiled 156 

608. " Creamed 156 

609. " " in Cups... 156 

610. " " Vienna 
Style 156 

611. Potato Croquettes or Bou- 

lettes 156 

612. Potato and Green Pepper 

Croquettes 157 

613. Potato Croquettes en Sur- 

prise, Entree 157 

614. Potato Croustades with 

Ham and Eggs, Entree. 157 

615. Potato Croustades, with 

Green Peas 157 

619. Potato Delmonico 158 

628. " Duchesse 159 

616. " Eggs, Baked with 
Cream 157 

617. Potato Franconia, Baked . . 157 

618. " French Fried 157 

619. " au Gratin, Delmon- 
ico Style 158 

631. Potato Hash Browned 159 

618. " Julienne 157 

618. " Lattice or Spiral .. . 157 

620. " Lyonnaise 158 

621. " in Muffin Rings (Po- 
tatoes Anna Baked) .... 158 

618. Potato O'Brian 157 

622. " Puree with Carrots 158 

623. " " au Gratin. . . 158 

624. " " Roses 159 

625. " " with Tomato 159 

626. " " en Surprise.. 159 

627. " " Olives, Vien- 
nese Style 159 

628. Potato Puree Souffle or 

Duchesse 159 

629. Potato Sauted with Cream 

Sauce 159 

630. Potato Curls Sauted 159 

631. " Sauted, Hash Brown- 
ed 159 

632. Potato Sauted, Spanish 

Style 160 



f28 



INDEX 



NO. PAGE 

633. Potatoes Scalloped, German 

Style. Entrge 160 

634. Potato Souffle Baked 160 

635. " " Fried 160 

636. " Strips Baked 160 

637. " Stuffed and Baked . . 160 

638. " Timbales 161 

639. Rice 161 

640. " with Chilli Sauce, Mex- 

ican Style 161 

641. Rice Croquettes Savory. . . 161 

642. " and Mushroom Cro- 

quettes, Entr§e 161 

643. Rice au Gratin 162 

644. " Peaches 162 

644. " Pears 162 

645. " Pilaff with Tomato 

Cheese Cream 162 

646. Rice Ring with Chicken 

Curry, EntrSe 162 

647. Rice Timbales, EntrSe. . . . 162 

648. " " Cases 163 

649. Spinach Boiled 163 

652. " Croustades 163 

650. " Cream with Arti- 
chokes, EntrSe 163 

651. Spinach Sautfid 163 

652. " Timbales 163 

653. Squash Creams 164 

654. " au Gratin 164 

555. " Summer, Pried — 

French Straws 146 



FAOl 

Succotash 164 

Sweet Potato Balls Baked. . 164 
" en Sur- 
prise, Fried 164 

Sweet Potato Candied 164 

Croquettes... 164 

" " Puree 165 

Purge, en Cas- 
serole 165 

Sweet Potato Souffle 165 

Tomatoes Baked 165 

Broiled 165 

Tomato Crescents 165 

666. Tomatoes Espagnole 165 

667. Tomato Fritters of Bread.. . 165 

668. Tomatoes SautSd and Devil- 

ed 166 

Tomatoes Sauted with 

Green Peppers 166 

Tomatoes Stewed 166 

Stuffed, Entree. . 166 



NO, 

655. 
656. 
657. 

658. 
659. 
660. 
661. 

662. 
663. 
664. 
665. 



669. 

670. 
671. 



672. Turnips Glazed 167 

VINEGARS OF DIFFERENT 

FLAVORS 219 

964. Cherry Vinegar 219 

965. Cucumber Vinegar 219 

966. Horseradish Vinegar 219 

967. Nasturtium Vinegar 21S 

968. Tarragon Vinegar 22E 



