
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : //books . google . com/| 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



r^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



A 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HOUSEHOLD 
SCIENCE AND ARTS 



FOR 



ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 



BY 



JOSEPHINE MORRIS 

SUPERVISOR OF HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE AND ARTS 
IN THE BOSTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS 




NEW YORK .:. CINCINNATI .:• CHICAGO 

AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY 



Digitized by 



Google 



< 






Copyright, 1912 and 1918, bt 
JOSEPHINE MOBBIS. 



1I0BRI8, HOUSEHOLD 8OIBN0K AlTD ABTB. 
W.P. I 



Digitized by 



Google 



TO 

Mrs. ELLOR CARLISLE RIPLEY 

ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF THE BOSTON PCBLIO 
SCHOOLS, WHOSE KINDLY INTEREST AND COOPERATION 
HAVE BEEN INVALUABLE AIDS IN THE ACCOMPLISHMENT 
OF THE WORK, THIS BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED 
BY THE AUTHOR, IN GRATITUDE FOR HER HELPFUL 
SUGGESTIONS IN ITS PLANNING AND COMPLETION 



260870 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by 



Google 



PREFACE 

" Household Science and Arts " aims first and last to be 
practical. Its suggestions as to best ways of keeping a house 
clean and sanitary, its advice in regard to the care and 
preparation of wholesome foods, and its formulation of about 
three hundred fifty recipes are all to the point. They are, 
moreover, such as may be followed in all homes. Because 
it is easy to find elaborate recipes and diflScult to secure a* 
collection suggestive and useful to the average housekeeper, 
this book has embraced only that which is well within the 
reach of the typical American home. 

All directions within these covers are expressed in simple 
language. This fact makes the book easily understood by 
young students, and saves time and thought for young 
housekeepers. 

In the outline of preliminary lessons, teachers may find a 
suggested order of making girls acquainted with the kitchen 
and its equipment. This acquaintance should be made very 
informally, with no attempt to cover in the first lesson more 
than the general and familiar kitchen furnishings and tools 
and their place and order. The individual cooking utensils, 
unfamiliar in name and use, should be taken up just before 
need of each is felt, so as to avoid confusion of mind arising 
from trying to learn many new things at once. 

It is suggested, also, that in the first, and in all subsequent, 
lessons teachers place marked emphasis upon the importance 
of wearing in the kitchen a clean, attractive outfit ; of meet- 
ing there all requirements under " Personal Habits in the 
Kitchen " ; and of not making " Mistakes to be avoided in 

5 



Digitized by 



Google 



6 A : : ••• V i :'•/*: : ' J^REFACE 

the Kitchen." In these particulars the teachers set stand- 
ards which the children can reach only by constant practice. 
While children may understand a full statement of what 
they ought to do and of what they ought to avoid, good 
kitchen habits can be secured only by the teacher^ s persistent 
demand for the ideal. 

The theory of a process in cookery is understood much more 
easily after than before experience with that process. For 
this reason^ teachers are urged to reduce explanation to a 
minimum until pupils have had some practice in the process 
to be explained. The consistent pursuit of this plan not only 
gives better results from cookery instruction, but it favors 
.the acquisition of skill by the pupils and increases their 
interest in their work. To objectify their conception of a 
recipe or direction is the great pleasure and great gain of a 
course in Household Arts. Therefore the teacher's silence 
is golden and the pupil's activity is rich reward. 

JOSEPHINE MORRIS. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CONTENTS 

FIRST YEAR 

PAOB 

Preliminabt Lessons 9 

Dust 11 

Refrigebatob 15 

Removing Stains 16 

Combustion 17 

Kerosene Lamps . . . . . . . . .19 

The Bjtchen Fire 19 

The Table 25 

Dish Washing, Silver Polishing, Care op the Sink and 

of Garbage 29 

Abbreviations and Measurements 32 

Food 34 

Water 35 

Beverages 36 

Fruit 40 

Vegetables 42 

Starch 51 

Cereals 55 

Composition op Foods 61 

Milk 62 

Cream Soups 64 

Butter 67 

Cheese 68 

Eggs 70 




Digitized by 



Google 



8 CONTENTS 

SECOND' YEAR 

/ PAGE 

^ Meat 78 

Gelatin 99 

v^FisH 101 

Fats and Oils . . .112 

Bread .115 

Baking Powder . . . 124 

Cake 132 

Steamed Doughs and Batters 139 

Pastry 145 

^Salads . . . . ' 148 

^ Invalid Cookery 153 

> Sandwiches 158 

Composition and Cost of Menus 162 

J Frozen Desserts 163 

-^Preserving Foods 166 

Jellies 172 

Sugar 176 

^" Candy Making 177 

Digestive Processes . 183 

Home Nursing 185 

Household Sanitation 190 

Care of Bedrooms 192 

J Laundering 194 

Household Accounts 198 

House Furnishing 201 

Box or School Luncheons 205 

"^ Menus 208 

Camp Cookery 218 

The Home Maker's Duty to Herself . . . .221 

School Gardens 226 

Index to Recipes 228 

General Index 241 

Home Recipes 249 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE AND ARTS 

FIRST YEAR 

Preuminaby Lessons 

At the beginning of this course in Household Arts the fol- 
lowing points are suggested for consideration with the class 
in three fully illustrated preliminary talks, in which the chil- 
dren are taught to exemplify what is stated in regard to outfit, 
personal habits, and mistakes ; to become familiar with the 
general equipment and order of the kitchen ; and to use the 
gas burners. 
I. Pupil's Costume. 

Cap to cover the hair entirely. 
Apron, cotton material, to cover the dress entirely. 
Towel. 
Holder. 
II. Personal Habits in the Kitchen. 

Dress. — A tub dress is an ideal kitchen dress ; its best 

substitute is a large allover cotton apron. 
Hands, — No rings should be worn ; the hands should 
be washed and the nails thoroughly cleaned before 
beginning to cook. After touching the face, hair, 
handkerchief, or anything not pertaining to the cook- 
ing, the hands should always be washed. 
Hair. — The hair should be completely covered by the 

cap, and all loose locks tucked beneath it. 
Towel. — Each pupil should use her own hand towel for 

drying her hands. 
Never use the hand towel for dusting or for drying dishes. 
9 



Digitized by 



Google 



10 FIRST YEAR 

III. Mistakes to be avoided by Pupils in the Kitchen. 

Cluttering utensils on the cookery table, or articles in 

the room. 
Soiling many dishes when a few could be washed and 

used again. 
Using the dishcloth for anything but dish washing, such 

as for wiping spots from the floor. 
Wasting time looking in the cookbook for recipes often 

used. These should be copied and hung in plain sight 

near the cookery table. 

IV. Equipment. » 
General. 

Sink and furnishings. 
Ranges. 
Towel racks. 
Demonstration desk. 
Dining table and dining chairs. 
Station stools. 

Station for each pupil with gas burner and standard 
equipment. 



Molding board. 


Desk pan. 


Case knife. 


Salt box. 


Paring knife. 


Pepper shaker. 


Steel fork. 


Tm plate. 


2 teaspoons. 


Crockery plate. 


1 tablespoon. 


Cup and saucer. 


1 wooden spoon. 


Sauce dish. 


Measuring cup. 


Scrubbing brush. 


1 pint agate saucepan. 




Cabinets: Order of 




Dishes. 


Linen. 


Glassware. 


Silver. 


Cooking utensils. 




State particular arrangement 


of each cabinet in school 



Digitized by 



Google 



DUST 11 

kitchen, locating contents of particular drawers, closets, and 
shelves as set apart for supplies, utensils, dishes, linen, and 
silver. 

V. Special. — Practice the proper use of the fire-proofed hlavr 
kettohe used in cdse of accident with the gas burner, 
VI. Special Instructions on Gas Burners. 

Care of matches. 

Lighting gas burners ; demonstration and practice. 

Teach economical use of gas, showing suitable flame 
for sinmiering and for boiling. 

Extinguishing gas. 

Dust 

Much dust is alive. That is, it contains germs or microbes, 
as they are sometimes called. A germ or microbe is among the 
smallest of living things. Many are so small that a powerful 
microscope, making them seem at least fifty times as large as 
they are, must be used in order to examine them. Most 
g^rms will not grow unless kept moist and warm. Some of 
these germs can produce useful tiny plants, such as yeast. 
Some of them produce undesirable plants, such as mold in 
bread and in cheese, v^ome of them produce during their 
growth very dangerous poisons, and when our bodies are 
weakened from lack of food, air, or sleep, such germs may 
carry diseases to us. So the rooms in which we live should 
be kept as free from dust as possible. 

One way of protecting ourselves from the living germs 
always found in dust is the use of a proper method of dusting 
and sweeping rooms. The main thing to be done is to avoid 
throwing dust into the air when trying to remove it from any 
article of furniture. Much that will be said in the next les- 
son on dusting arid "sweeping can be traced back to this one 
principle of avoiding the scattering of dust. 4 



Digitized by 



Google 



# 



12 FIRST YEAR 

But harmful germs are brought to the home by other 
carriers than dust. Flies are very harmful to us and useful 
to bad germs by carrying them from place to place. Flies 
are hatched in filth and always support germs. The good 
housekeeper will not allow uncovered in her house anything 
attractive to flies. She will also make sure that her garbage 
pail is not open to them as a free boarding house. She wiU 
use every possible means of keeping her home free from these 
busy Uttle pests. 

Mosquitoes, too, are enemies. Although their bite is im- 
pleasant, we should wage war on them for another reason than 
that. They carry diseases, and are a very common means of 
" chills and fever," ague or malaria. 

But there are useful germs. Bread making, butter making, 
and cheese curing are aided by such germs, and they help too 
in the ripening of meat. 

SWEEPING 

Care of Brooms and Brushes. — In sweeping use alternate 
sides and comers of the broom, so that it may wear evenly. 
Wash brooms frequently in hot, soapy water, and hang them 
up to dry. Brush all lint from dustbrush, and wash it occa- 
sionally in cold or warm water, never in hot, as hot water 
softens the glue which holds the bristles in place. After 
washing the brush, hang it in the open air to dry. 

Sweeping Smooth, Finished Floors, or Hardwood Floors. — 
Before beginning to sweep, see that no uncovered food is in the 
room. Then dust the comers of the room with a short- 
handled bristle brush ; dust the sides of the room with a long- 
handled bristle brush, sweeping toward the center; then 
sweep the floor with short strokes, keeping the broom close 
to the floor to prevent raising dust. 

Next, gather the dust in one spot near the center of the 



Digitized by 



Google 



DUSTING 13 

room, and take it up with a brush, or a small broom and a 
dustpan, and bum it at once whenever possible, opening all 
the dampers of the range before putting the dust into the fire. 

Care of Hardwood Floors and Stairs. — Always sweep 
floor and stairs before wiping them with damp cloth. 

Use as Uttle water as possible, and wipe the wood dry ; or 
wipe it over with kerosene. 

Rub hard with a soft, dry cloth until the wood is perfectly 
dry. 

Sweeping a Carpeted Floor, (a) Preparatory Steps. — 
Dust pictures and all pieces of furniture too large to be 
removed, and cover them with cheesecloth covers. Dust 
all small articles and remove them from the room. If a 
high wind is blowing, close the windows to prevent the dust 
from blowing back. Tear old newspapers into small pieces, 
dampen them, and sprinkle them over the carpet. 

(6) Sweeping, — Sweep the cpmers of the carpet with a 
short-handled com broom. Sweep the sides of the room with 
a long-handled com broom, sweeping towards the center, 
and taking short strokes, so as to avoid raising dust. Collect 
the dirt in one pile and take it up on a dustpan with a small 
broom. 

A carpet sweeper may be used on the center of the carpet 
after the sides are brushed. 

Sweeping Carpeted Stairs. — Use a short-handled com 
broom and a dustpan covered with damp paper. Brush the 
dirt from each step into the dustpan. Be careful to leave the 
comers clean. 

DUSTING 

Implements for Dusting. — Dry mop for hard wood or 
smooth-finished floors, or a long-handled com broom covered 
with a canton flannel bag. 

Several cheesecloth dusters. 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 FIRST YEAR 

Care of Mops and Dusters. — Dry mops should be washed 
and boiled (on the day when the family washing is done), 
rinsed well, and dried outdoors. 

Canton flannel bags for broom cases should be washed and 
rinsed each time after using. 

Dusters should be washed, scalded, and dried outdoors 
each time after using. 

Dusting a Room. — Dust the walls and highest articles 
in the room first, going regularly around the room. Dust 
lower articles with cheesecloth duster. 

Gather or wipe the dust carefully into the duster and tmn 
over the cloth to fold the dust well inside. Use a clean por- 
tion of duster for each new article to be dusted. 

SCRUBBING 

I. Requisites. 

Desk pan. Scouring soap. 

Desk cloth. Hot water. 

Scrubbing brush. 

II. Method. 

•Remove any crumbs ; wash the table or board with a wet 
cloth. Dip the bristles of the scrubbing brush into 
water, rub scouring soap on the brush, and scrub well 
vrith the grain of the wood; wash off the soap ; wipe the 
wood entirely dry. 

Rinse the cloth, shake it, and hang it to dry. 

Grease spots on unfinished wood may be removed with 
ammonia, or with water and borax. 

Pour ammonia on the spot, and let it stand a few minutes ; 
then rinse it oflf with cold water. 

Completely cover the spot with the borax and let it stand 
overnight. 

Rinse it oflf with clear water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



REFRIGERATOR 15 

Refriqeratob 
I. Implements for Cleaning. 

Scrubbing brush. 
Small broom. 

Long-handled brush or stick for the waste pipe. 
Desk pan. 
Desk cloth. 

Plenty of hot water with washing soda dissolved in it. 
II. Method. 

Remove all food and ice, take out the shelves and ice 

racks. 
Scrub the shelves and racks with the scrubbing brush 

and put them in the sun to dry. 
Scrub the floor and walls of the refrigerator with hot soda 

water, using a small broom. Never put the hands 

into soda water. 
Be very careful to clean the comers well. 
Make a very strong solution of soda water. 
Wash the waste pipe either with a long-handled bristle 

brush that comes for this purpose, or with a stick 

having a cloth wound around it. 
Now scald the inside of the refrigerator with clear, boiling 

water and wipe it as dry as possible. -Leave the refrig- 
erator open until it is thoroughly dry. 
When it is dry, replace the ragks, ice, shelves, and food, 

wiping all the food dishes on the outside. 
Close the doors and wipe the ^woodwork, outside with a 

damp cloth. 
A refrigerator should be thoroitghly cleaned once a week. 
It should he examined daily to make sure that no bit of 

food, however sniall, is left to spoil, or mold. 
Caution. — Hot food should never be put into the refrig- 
erator. No food with a strong odor, such as cabbage, onions, 
or bananas should be placed there. 



Digitized by 



Google 



16 FIRST YEAR 

Removing Stains 

I. Caused by Fmits or Beverages. 

Requisites, 
Large bowl. 
Cold water. 

Plenty of boiling water. 
Method. 

Fruit, tea, or coffee stains may be removed while yet 
fresh by laying the stained parts over a bowl' and 
slowly pouring boiling water on the stain. 
Repeat the process until the stains are removed. 
Pear stains often will not come out imder this treat- 
ment and require " Javelle Water." 
Cocoa and chocolate stains should be soaked in cold 
water for ten or fifteen minutes, and then treated for 
removal as advised for fruit stains. 
II. Iron Rust Stains. 
Requisites, 
Cold water. 
Lemon juice. 
Salt. 

Sunshine. 
Method. — Iron rust stains may be removed by wetting 
the material in cold water, applying lemon juice and salt, 
and then placing the material at once in the sunshine. More 
than one application may be necessary. 

Caution. — Causes of iron rust should be carefully avoided. 
A loose screw lying in the laundry tub, hooks on wash gar- 
ments, etc., are liable to make much trouble. Lemon juice 
and salt tend to rot material to which they are applied. 
Hence it is wise to avoid stains which call for their use. 



Digitized by 



Google 



COMBUSTION 17 

Combustion 

Experiment 1. — Light a candle. Place a bottle over it. 
What happens? 

Experiment 2. — Light a candle, place a bottle over it, and 
just before the light goes out, lift the bottle. What happens? 

Experiment 3. — Light a candle, place a chimney over it, 
and put a piece of paper over the top of the chimney. What 
happens? 

Rehght the candle, and raise the chimney a little at the 
bottom. What happens? 

What is necessary to make the candle bum and to keep 
it burning? 

Experiment 4. — Light a taper and put it into a bottle. 
Cover the bottle. After the Ught has gone out, pour a Uttle 
limewater into the bottle. What happens to the limewater? 
We have produced a gas in the bottle which turns limewater 
milky. It is composed of carbon and oxygen, and is called 
carbon dioxide. Limewater is the test for carbon dioxide. 

Experiment 5. — Breathe into a bottle. Pour a little lime- 
water into the bottle. We have the same gas, carbon diox- 
ide, in our breath. 

Experiment 6. — Light a taper and put it into a bottle. 
Does any water collect on the sides of the bottle ? Water 
is composed of hydrogen and oxygen. 

Air. — From experiments 1, 2, 3, and 4 we may conclude 
that air is necessary to keep the candle burning. Air is a 
mixture of nitrogen and oxygen. It is the oxygen which is 
the active element. 

Oxidation. — Oxygen has a great tendency to unite with 
other elements. When they unite slowly, we do not notice 
any rise in temperature. This gradual process is called oxi-- 
dation. 

Combustion. — When fire is applied to fuels, the oxidation 



Digitized by 



Google 



18 FIRST YEAR 

takes place rapidly. Noticeable heat and light are produced. 
This process is called combustion. 

Kindling Point. — Fuels differ as to the temperature at 
which they will bum or unite with oxygen. The tempera- 
ture at which a substance will begin to bum is called the 
kindling point. Make a list of fuels, beginning with those 
that have the lowest kindling point. 

Composition of Fuels. — From experiments 4 and 5 we 
may conclude that fuels contain carbon. From experiment 
6 we may conclude that fuels also contain hydrogen. 

Products of Combustion. — The chief products of combus- 
tion of fuels are the gases which rise from the fire. They 
are carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide and usually steam. 
Carbon monoxide is the gas that bums near the fuel with a 
bluish flame. It is the product of incomplete combustion. 
Carbon dioxide is the product of complete combustion and 
is invisible. Much of the fuel is wasted in the process of 
combustion. Smoke and soot are a loss. Smoke is composed 
of the little pieces of fuel which have been partly bumed, 
and escape with the vapor in the draft up the chimney. 
When wood and soft coal are bumed, parts of the oily com- 
pounds are combined with the imconsumed bits of fuel Mid 
stick to the chimney flues. This is called soot. 

Chinmeys have to be kept free from soot, for it sometimes 
collects in large quantities and ignites in the chimney and 
bums. 

Ashes are the mineral substances in the fuels which will 
not bum. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE KITCHEN FIRE 19 

Kerosene Lamps 
I. Cleaning. 

Occasionally take oflf th^ burners, la3ring them on several 
folds of newspaper; take out the wicks, boil the 
burners in soda water in the proportion of one (1) 
teaspoonful of washing soda to one (1) quart of water. 
At all times keep the air holes free from dust and 
lamp dirt. 
II. Filling. 

Fill the lamp to within one inch of the top. 

Trim the wick with care ; see that it is perfectly even, 

with no projecting point. 
Clean the chimney by washing it in hot anmionia water. 
Dry it thoroughly on a clean glass towel kept for the 
purpose. Wipe the lamp on the outside with lamp 
cloth kept for this purpose only. 
lU. Eztinguishing. 

Oil lamps without extmguishers should be turned low 
enough to get the wick away from the air. Then they 
will go out of themselves. 
IV. QuaHty. 

Cheap burners of thin brass are not really economical, 
as they get out of order soon, and so are much harder 
to keep clean than well-made burners. 

The Kitchen Pirb 

Requisites for a Fire. 
Air. 
Fuel. 

Matches or some other means of raising fuel to the kin- 
dling point. 
Fuel may be : — 

Paper. Peat. 

Shavings. Coke. 



Digitized by 



Google 



20 FIRST YEAR 

Wood. Gas. 

Charcoal. Denatured Alcohol. 

Coal. Gasoline. 

When hot enough to take fire, a substance is at the kindling 
point. 

THE COAL RANGE 

The range is an iron box with attached parts. The pupil 
should become thoroughly familiar with the range and all its 
parts. The fire box, the stovepipe, the dampers, the oven, 
and the ash pan. 

Fire Box. — The fire box varies much in size, but is usually 
rectangular in shape and holds the fuel. 

Stovepipe. — The stovepipe is used to carry off smoke and 
unburned gas. 

Dampers. — The dampers are used to control the currents 
of air. The front damper admits air below the fuel and allows 
it to bum, and is often called the fresh air damper. Closing 
it wholly or partly decreases the rate of burning. 

The slide or check draft admits air above the fuel and is 
opened to decrease burning. 

The oven damper is used for turning the hot air from the 
chimney to the oven. It should never be closed when the 
fire is new and the fuel smoking, but may be closed after the 
smoke has disappeared. 

The oven is one of the main parts of the range, and has 
iron walls and a tight-fitting door. 

Notice the ash pan. It should never be allowed to be so 
full that the ashes and cinders pile up against the fire grate. 
This not only chokes the fire, but bums out the grate. The 
ash pan should be taken out and emptied when there is little 
or no fire in the stove. 

Method of Building a Fire. — Brush all ashes from top of 
th« oven into the fire box. Turn the grate so as to dump all 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE GAS RANGE 21 

ashes into the ash pan. Clean out all ashes and large and 
small cinders from the fire box. Tear paper into rather small 
pieces, crumple them loosely, using enough to cover the bot- 
tom of the grate. Put in small pieces of soft wpod, arranging 
them loosely in crosswise manner. Place hard wood in same 
way, leaving spaces for air to pass through freely, and use 
enough wood to kindle the coal. Put on the covers, and open 
the fresh air damper and the oven damper. 

If the range needs blacking, do it now. 

Select a good quality of stove polish and moisten it with a 
little cold water. Apply it to the range with a dauber. 

Light the fire at the bottom, applying a lighted match to 
the paper, and while the fire is kindling, polish the range with 
a dry brush, beginning at the parts which are directly over 
the binning fuel. 

When the wood is kindling freely, add coal and never put 
coals above the top of the lining. It is both a hindrance and 
waste to put on too much coal when fire is kindling. 

Close the oven damper when the blue flame has disap- 
peared from the coal and close the fresh air damper and the 
oven damper when the fire is thoroughly kindled. 

If a hot fire is needed for baking, leave the fresh air damper 
open. 

DIRECTIONS FOR KEEPING A FIRE OVERNIGHT 

Rake the fire, put on fresh coal, close fresh air, oven, and 
chimney dampers, and partly open the slide over the fire. 

THE GAS RANGE 

The gas range saves time and labor, does not heat the kit- 
chen uncomfortably in summer, and, if managed with care, 
may be an economical means of cooking. 

Study all the parts of the gas range. 



Digitized by 



Google 



22 FIRST YEAR 

Find out where the main pipe is which leads the gas into 
the range. Notice the shut-oflf. 

Notice the position of the gas cocks when open and when 
closed. 

Locate the top burners and the simmerer. 

Locate the baking and the broiling ovens. 

Find out where all the burners are which heat the oven. 

Locate the oven pilot light. 

Cleaning the Gas Range. — See that the burners are clean, 
and that their air holes are not stopped with dust or dirt. 
Draw out the iron sheet under top of the range and clean 
it once a day ; scrub it once a week. PoUsh the range, fol- 
lowing as far as possible directions for polishing the coal 
range. 

Lighting. Upper Burners, — Open the gas cock, or gate- 
way, in the connecting pipe. 

Open the cock in the pipe that supplies the burner; let 
the gas nm a second and apply a lighted match at the top of 
the burner. 

The gas should always hum with a blue finm/e. 

Oven Burners. — Open both oven doors. 

Open the pilot cock and light the pilot light through the 
hole made for this pmpose. 

Open and Ught first one cock and then the other, and when 
both are Ughted, turn oflf the pilot Ught. 

Caution. — Never light the oven burners until you have 
first opened both oven doors, as dangerous explosions are likely 
to take place when ovens contain any gas. 

As soon as the contents of a saucepan or a kettle boil on 
the gas range, turn the gas down as low as can be done with- 
out checking boiling. Use the simmerer instead of one of 
the burners when practicable to do so. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE OIL STOVE 23 

THE ELECTRIC STOVE 

The electric stove is even cleaner and more convenient 
than the gas stove, but it is not yet within the reach of many 
of us on accoimt of the high rate of electricity. Although 
in some cities the rate of electricity is lowered dining the 
day when the current is being used for cooking, even then 
it is more expensive than gas. The heat comes from coils of 
wire which become red hot when the electricity is turned on. 
C!ooking utensils containing the food to be cooked are placed 
over these coils. 

There are many electrical utensils, as toasters, chafing 
dishes, tea kettles, etc., which contain the electrical coils 
and can be attached to any lamp socket. These are very 
convenient, especially for light housekeeping. 

THE OIL STOVE 

Kerosene is used in the country in summer where there is 
no gas. In order to bum kerosene it must be vaporized. 
The blue flame kerosene stove is considered the best. In 
most of these the oil is fed into a hollow ring at the bottom 
of the burner where it becomes heated to a temperature suf- 
ficiently high to vaporize it. This vapor mixes with the air 
and bums with a blue flame. 

The stove should be placed in a part of the kitchen where 
there is no draft. Great care must be taken of the wicks. 
Each day they must be cleaned by wiping oflf the excess car- 
bon with a soft cloth. The cylinders, and the top and bot- 
tom of the stove, must be kept carefully dusted. The tank 
should be refilled each day and never allowed to bum out. 
It will be interesting to make a comparison of the cost of the 
different fuels. 

It has been found that with coal at $7.75 per ton, gas at 
$1 per 1000 cubic feet, kerosene oil at $.12 a gallon, elec- 



Digitized by 



Google 



24 FIRST YEAR 

tricity at $.10 per kilowatt hour, heat for cooking will cost 
per hour 

0.011 if coal is used. 

0.012 if gas is used. 

0.008 if kerosene oil is used. 

0.057 if electricity is used. 
It appears from the above that kerosene oil would be the 
cheapest fuel ; but we shall find that it takes half as long 
again to cook with a^ kerosene stove, for the heat is not so 
intense as the heat caused by the other fuels. This must 
be taken into consideration when deciding upon the cost 
of fuel. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE TABLE 25 

The Table 

Coiiditions. — The table should be scrupulously clean and 
attractive. It may be both with very inexpensive furnish- 
ings, for habits of neatness and taste may be cultivated at 
the poorest table with cheap linen and simple crockery. 
Everything on it should be placed in a well-considered and 
orderly manner. 

Table Setting for Breakfast. 

Requisites. 

Dining table. Napkins. 

Dining chairs. Glassware. 

Duster. Dishes. 

Silence cloth. Silver. 

' Tablecloth. 

Dust the table, and cover it with a canton flannel or felt- 
ing undercloth to improve the appearance of the tablecloth, 
to prevent noise, and to protect the table top. 

Lay the cloth, placing the middle fold upward in the cen- 
ter and lengthwise with the table, and see that all hanging 
comers are equally long. 

Arrange a place for father, which is called the host's place, 
and a place for mother, which is called the hostess's place. 

The host's place is called the head of the table and the hos- 
tess's place the foot of the table, and one should be opposite 
the other. Place the knives at the right of each plate with 
sharp edges toward plate, and the handles one inch from 
edge of table. Place the forks at the left of the plate with 
tines upward and handles on a line with handles of knives. 
Lay the spoons near the knives with bowls up and handles 
on a line with knives and forks. Place tumbler, top up, near 
end of knife blade, and napkin and bread and butter plate 
at the left near the fork. Place a salt and pepper shaker at 
either end of the table. 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 



FIRST YEAR 



If fruit is to be served at breakfast, it should be served 
first, a knife and a plate being placed for each person. 

Service. — The tea and coflfee service should be arranged 
in front of the hostess in the form of a semicircle. 




1, knife, 2, spoon, 3, tumbler, 4, fork, 5, napkin, 6, bread and butter plate, 7, breakfost 

plate. 

At the right, place the following : — 
Coffeepot or teapot. 
Sugar bowl. 
Spoon tray. 

Cream pitcher, hot-water pitcher, or covered jug. 
At the left, place the following : — 

Cups and saucers with handles toward the right. 
Cereal Service. — The cereal dish should be placed in front 
of the hostess with a tablespoon at the right and individual 
dishes at the left. 

Meat Service. — The meat service should be placed before 
the host. 

In front, platter containing meat or fish or other main dish. 
At the right, a carving knife and fork on a carving rest, and 
a tablespoon. 

At the left, a pile of hot plates. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE TABLE 27 

Bread and Butter Service. — Plates containing hot rolls 
and muflSms should be placed at opposite ends of the table. 

The butter plate, with the butter knife at the right, should 
be placed in front of some member of the family who assists in 
serving. 

After each course is laid look at the table. See if it pleases 
you, and looks well balanced and convenient as to placing of 
dishes. 

The Supper Table. — The supper table is arranged simi- 
larly to the breakfast table, smaller plates being used. 
Sauce or preserves are often served with cake at supper, and 
places should be planned for each. 

The Dinner Table. — The knives, forks, spoons, tumbler, 
and napkin are arranged as for breakfast. A soup spoon is 
added. The usual three courses : — 

1. Soup. 

2. Meat, or fish, and vegetables. 

3. Dessert. 

First, or Soup Course. — In front of the hostess. 

The soup tureen, the ladle with bowl up at the right. 

At the left, the hot soup plates. 

Second, or Meat Course, — The meat platter and the hot 
plates may be arranged as for breakfast. 

The vegetables of this course may be passed by the waitress 
or served by the hostess. 

Removal of Dishes. — After this course is finished remove 
everything but the dessert spoons and tumblers. Remove 
all crumbs, using a tray and a napkin ; or a crumb scraper. 

Third, or Dessert Course. — Place the dessert in front of the 
hostess with a spoon or knife for serving. 

Place the plates or sauce dishes at the left. 



Digitized by 



Google 



28 FIRST YEAR 

SUGGESTIONS ON SERVING 

The Tray. Purpose. — A tray should be used in serving 
food and in removing the smaller dishes from the table. It 
saves steps and time and allows more delicate service than 
can be given without it. 

Manner of Handling. — The tray should be held in the 
left hand and dishes or plates placed upon it with the right, 
taking care not to rest the thumb on the surface of the dishes, 
especially when serving. Dishes should be placed before 
those at the table from the rights and removed from the left, 
removing everything pertaining to one course before serving 
the next. 

Passing Dishes on a* Tray. — Dishes from which food is to 
be taken should be passed from the left, holding the tray 
slightly above the level of the table. 

The handle of the serving fork or spoon should be toward 
the right. 

To fill Glasses. — Draw to edge of table, being careful to 
touch the glass near the bottom, put cracked ice in with a 
spoon and fill tumbler to within an inch of the top. In pass- 
ing also place the hand near the bottom, never over or -near 
the top. 

Serving. Finger Bowls. — When finger bowls are used, 
put each on a dessert plate with a doily underneath the 
bowl ; place a bowl at the left of each person. 

SOME THINGS TO REMEMBER CONCERNING TABLE MANNERS 

The napkin should be. spread across the lap, not tucked in 
at the neck, because no one should eat so rapidly or care- 
lessly as to drop food on her waist. 

The soup spoon should be dipped from instead of toward 
you, because by managing in this way drops are less likely to 
fall, and one does not appear greedy. 



Digitized by 



Google 



DISH WASHING 29 

Always place the side of the spoon to your lips ; never take 
food from the tip of the spoon as it appears awkward. 

Do not tip the soup plate ; it seems a greedy act. 

Bread shoiJd be broken into small pieces, and placed in the 
mouth ; biting into a slice of bread is avoided by all people of 
good manners. 

If your preference is asked regarding food, express it at once. 

The table utensils should not be handled. Keep your 
hands on your napkin in your lap when not eating. 

The spoon should be placed on the saucer, never left in the 
cup. 

The knife and fork should be placed straight on the plate 
and a little to one side, or rested on the edge of the bread and 
butter plate when passing your plate for a second portion. 
Never lay your knife on the tablecloth. 

When food is in the mouth, be very careful to keep the lips 
closed, even when chewing. Do not talk with food in the 
mouth. 

At the close of the meal when all have finished eating, the 
napkin should be folded, holding it while doing so below the 
level of the table. 

The essence of good manners is to look out for the comfort 
of others and to try to anticipate their wants. " True po- 
liteness is true kindness." Do not talk to people about what 
you may think to be their bad manners, even if they are your 
young brothers and sisters. You will succeed better by mak- 
ing them desire to be polite than by telling them that they are 
ill mannered. 

Dish Washing, Silver Polishing, Cabe of the Sink 
AND OF Garbage 
I. Requisites. 

Dishpan half full of hot, soapy water. 

Large rinsing pan partially filled with clear, hot water. 



Digitized by VjOOC^IC 



30 FIRST YEAR 

Draining tray. 
Good soap. 
Plenty of hot water. 
II. Preparation. 

Scrape all food from dishes and rinse plates and cups. 
Soak in cold water all dishes which have been used for 

eggs, milk, and starchy foods, and in hot water all 

dishes used for sugary and other sticky foods. 
Pile all dishes of a kind together, the largest at the 

bottom. Put silver knives, forks, and spoons 

together. 
Steel knives and forks should be placed with handles 

to the right of a plate. 
Wipe greasy saucepans and frying pans with a soft 

paper, then soak them in hot water, 
III. Order of Washing. 

Saucepans and all other cooking utensils. Then get 

fresh water for : — 



Silver. 
China. 

Caution. — Change the water in both pans whenever it be- 
comes greasy or cool. 

The handles of knives, if of wood, ivory, bone, or pearl, 
should never be put into water. 

Wash all tinware in hot, soapy water, care being taken to 
remove all substances from seams and comers. Try to avoid 
scraping tinware with a knife. Polish it with piJverized 
scouring soap. 

If any of the silver is tarnished, clean it after washing it 
by rubbing it with soft cloth or cotton waste which has been 
moistened and dipped into silver polish. Allow the polish 
to dry on and rub it off with a soft, dry cloth. Wash the sil- 
ver in hot, soapy water mi dry it with a soft towel. 



Digitized by 



Google 



DISH WASHING 31 

rV. Redpe for Silver Polish. 

Sift jewelers' whiting through a fine meshed cloth, or a 
hair sieve. Make the sifted whiting into a paste by 
using water and ammonia. Apply the paste to 
silver, nickel, or aluminum, and let it dry on. Polish 
with a soft flannel cloth. 

Steel knives should be scoured after washing, using 
pulverized scouring soap, Bristol brick, or tripoli. 
Dampen a cork, or a piece of old cloth or cotton waste 
and dip it into the polishing material. Rub the 
blades on both sides until no stains remain. Dip the 
blades into clean, hot, soapy water and dry them on 
a dish towel. 
V. Care of Dish Cloths and Towels. 

Warm water, soap and a small washboard should be 
used in washing dishcloths and towels, scrubbing 
both until all stains are removed. Scald them in 
boiling water, rinse them in clear, cold water and 
wring them well. Shake or piJl out all wrinkles 
and dry them out of doors, if possible. 

VI. Handling Dishes. 

Handle dishes so carefully that they will not knock 
against each other and chip. When placing them 
in the rinsing pan, be careful to lay them so that they 
will not slide or fall. When moving them on the 
sink or draining boards, do not push them against 
each other, but lift them and replace them. Avoid 
being a noisy dishwasher. 

VII. Cleaning the Sink. 

Every day remove all particles of food with a sink 

brush and sink shovel. 
Wash the sink with hot, soapy water and scrub it with 

sink scrubbing brush and scouring soap. 
Clean behind sink pipes with a wooden skewer. 



Digitized by 



Google 



32 FIRST YEAR 

Rinse the sink with clear hot water and wipe the wood 
work. 

Be sure that the edges and outside of the sink are per- 
fectly clean. 

Wash the sink pan and cloth. 

Frequently flush the sink by pouring boiling water 
down sink pipe. 

Once a month use a solution of caustic soda and boiling 
water to clean grease from the sink pipe. 

Iron sinks should be wiped dry and rubbed over with 
an old cloth that has been sprinkled with kerosene 
oU. 
VIII. Polishing Brasses. 

Use any good polish. 

Dip a piece of soft cloth into the polish and apply it 
to the brass. Let it dry on and then polish with a 
dry piece of old flannel or dry cotton waste. 
IX. Garbage. 

Garbage is best disposed of by burning it, or if you 
have a garden, by burying it, as it becomes a good 
fertilizer. Strain oflf all water and put waste in a 
paper and place it in the ash pan to dry. When it 
is dry, open all dampers in the range and bum it. 

The garbage pail should be kept very clean, and so 
tightly closed that no fly can get into it. 

Rinse the garbage pail with cold water, then wash it 
thoroughly with a strong solution of hot soda water, 
using a child's long-handled broom kept for that pur- 
pose only. Let both broom and pail afterward dry 
in the sun. 

Abbreviations and Measurements 

All measurements in these recipes are level. 

For success in cookery, all measurements must be accurate. 



Digitized by 



Google 



ABBREVIATIONS 33 

A good recipe correctly followed always gives successful 
results. 

Good cooking is not a matter of luck. Whenever you fail, 
search for the cause until you find it. Be very careful then 
in all your measurements ; follow your directions exactly and 
you will become a good cook. 

MEASUBEMENTS OF DRY MATERIALS SUCH AS FLOUR, MEAL, 
POWDERED SUGAR, ETC. 

A Cupful, — Sift the material first, fill the cup with a spoon 
or a scoop, being careful not to shake the material down, and 
level it off with the back of a case knife. 

A Spoonful. — Fill the spoon by dipping it into the 
material. Lift it, and level it off with a case knife. 

A Part Spoonful, — Fill a spoon and divide the material 
with a knife lengthwise to measure one half spoonful, . 

Divide half spoonful crosswise to measure a quarter spoonful 
and a quarter spoonful crosswise to measure an eighth spoon- 
ful. 

A speck of anything is as much as will rest on the tip of a 
pointed paring knife, or, in other words, a few grains. 

Abbreviations 

tbs. stands for tablespoon. qt. stands for quart, 

ts. stands for teaspoon. pt. stands for pint. 

ss. stands for saltspoon. oz. stands for ounce, 

spk. stands for speck. lb. stands for pound. 

€• stands for cup. h. stands for hour. 

m. stands for minute. 



Digitized by 



Google 



34 • FIRST YEAR 

Table of Measurements 
4 ss. equal 1 ts. 

3 ts. equal 1 tbs. 

4 tbs. equal J cup. 
4 c. equal 1 qt. 

2 tbs. butter equal 1 oz. 

4 tbs. flour equal 1 oz. 

2 c. meat (finely chopped, packed solidly) equal 1 lb. 

2 c. granulated sugar equal 1 lb. 

2 c. butter (packed solidly) equal 1 lb. 

4 c. flour equal 1 lb. 

9 large eggs equal 1 lb. 

Food 

By food is meant something which can nourish the body, 
mjake it grow, or restore its tissues and furnish it with a 
supply of energy. 

Most food can do this work more easily after than before 
cooking, and most food is improved in appearance and in 
flavor by being cooked. In all cases cooking tends to kill 
germs. So it has become the custom to cook most of the 
food we eat. 

Ways of Cooking. — Boiling is cooking in boiling water or 
other liquid. 

Steaming is cooking over steam. 

In boiling and ordinary steam cooking the food cannot be 
heated above a certain degree (212*^ Fahrenheit). 

Stewing is long, slow boiling in a small amount of water. 

Broiling or grilling is cooking above hot coals, or directly 
over the fire. 

Pan broiling is cooking without fat in a hot frying pan or 
on a hot griddle. 

Roasting now generally means cooking in an oven. But 



Digitized by 



Google 



WATER 35 

before stoves were used it meant cooking before a glowing 
open fire. 

Baking is cooking in a hot oven. 

Frying is cooking in fat enough to cover the food com- 
pletely. 

SaiU&ing is cooking in a small quantity of hot fat. It is 
often called frying. 

Braising and fricasseeing are combinations of saut^ing and 
stewing. 

Water 

Water constitutes about two thirds of the weight of the 
human body. It is most essential to life, aiding in the di- 
gestion and assimilation of food. From four to five pints 
should be taken daily into the system. Water exists in these 
forms : — 

Liquid. 

Gaseous — ^ vapor (steam), clouds, mist. 

Solid — ice. 

Water is spoken of as hard or soft ; pure or impure. 

Hard water contains much dissolved mineral matter. 

Perform experiments to show its solvent power. 

Try to make soapsuds in hard and in soft water. 

Lime is often foimd in hard water. Boiling causes some 
of the lime to come out of very hard water and settle in the 
bottom of the kettle. After this has happened the water is 
somewhat softened. 

Soft water has very little mineral matter in it. The water 
of different countries and of different parts of the same 
country differs very much in degrees of hardness and softness. 

Pure water means clear water which has no dangerous 
germs in it. Water may be made practically pure by boiling 
it thoroughly. Boiled water should be placed in bottles, 
corked, allowed to cool, and then set in the ice chest to chill 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



36 FIRST YEAR 

for drinking. Water should be boiled unless it is known to 
be free from dangerous germs. 

Water is sterile if it is free from all living germs. 

Temperatures. — Find zero, summer heat, and freezing as 
marked on the schoolroom thermometer. 

98° — Learn by using a thermometer that the normal 
temperature of the himian body is higher than any of these. 
It is about 98°. 

180® — From the dairy or kitchen thermometer learn that 
simmering water is about 180*^ hot, and notice that small 
air bubbles appear on the bottom and sides of the vessel 
containing simmering water. 

212° — The dairy thermometer will show you that the 
boiling point of water is 212° F., and that no matter how 
hard it boils, it does not get any hotter. Notice that large 
bubbles of steam are near the top and on the siuf ace of 
boiling water. 

Cautions. — Keep the inside of water pitchers clean. 
Keep the bedroom water pitchers also free from the slime 
which collects on them unless they are washed and rinsed 
frequently. 

Keep table water bottles clean in the inside. 

Avoid water that has been standing overnight uncovered. 

Never drink water from wells of houses in which no one 
is living. 

Do not use water from the hot-water faucet for cooking. 

Beverages 

tea and coffee 

Your teacher will tell how coflFee and tea look when grow- 
ing, what countries raise them, and how each is prepared for 
market. She will ask some of you to copy on the blackboard 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 



37 



a picture of the tea plant and the coffee plant, and others of 
you to find pictures showing people working in tea fields or 
coffee fields. She will tell you of different kinds of tea and 
of coffee and ask you to locate the countries producing them. 

Because of a stimulating property called tfieine in tea, and 
caffeine in coffee, yoimg people should not use either as a 
beverage. Older people sometimes use so much tea or coffee 
that it becomes very injurious to them. 

Cautions. — Both tea and coffee should be kept in tightly 
covered tins or jars. 

Teapots and coffeepots should always be scalded before 
they are used. 

Always use freshly boiled water for all beverages. 

Hot tea or coffee should be served very hot. 

Cold tea or coffee should be served ice cold. 



RECIPE I. 

Proi)ortion for each 
cup: — 

1 ts. tea 

1 c. boiling water 



RECIPE 3. 



TEA 

Put the tea into a scalded teapot and 
pour hoiling water over it. Let it stand 
on the back of the stove to steep for five 
minutes. It should never be boiled. Strain 
the tea and serve it at once. 

If stronger tea is desired, two teaspoons 
of tea may be used to one cup of boiling 
water. 

RUSSIAN TEA 

Make tea as in No. 1, and serve it hot or 
cold with thin slices of lemon and sugar, 
and without milk. 



RECIPE 3. 

i c. ground coffee 
2 eggshells (crum- 
bled), or 
iegg 

i c. cold water 
3i c. boiling water 



BOILED COFFEE 

Mix the coffee, the egg, or eggshells 
(the eggs should be washed bef6re they are 
broken), and } cup of cold water thor- 
oughly. Add boiling water, boil the coffee 
three minutes, and move the coffeepot to 
the back of the stove. Pour a little of the 



Digi 



itf^ed by Google 



38 



RECIPE 4. 

1 c. finely ground 



3 0. boiling water 



RECIPE 5. 



FIRST YEAR 

coffee into a cup to free the spout from 
grounds; pour it back into the coffeepot 
and add i cup of cold water. Let it stand 
where it will keep hot but not boil, for ten 
minutes. Serve the coffee at once with 
cream and sugar which are put into the 
hot cup before the coffee is poured on. 
Scalded milk may be used instead of cream. 

FILTERED COFFEE 

Put the coffee into the upper part of a 
scalded filter coffeepot, and pour boiling 
water slowly through. The coffeepot must 
be kept hot while coffee is being made, but 
filtered coffee must never be boiled. Serve 
the coffee at once with cream or sugar as 
in No. 3. 

ICED COFFEE 

Use recipe No. 3 and serve the coffee cold 
in a deep tiunbler with cracked ice, cream, 
and sugar, with whipped cream on top. 



Clearing Coffee. — Eggshells should be washed and saved 
for clearing coflfee. Three egg shells are sufficient to effect 
clearing for one cup of ground coflfee. Salt fish skin, if washed, 
dried, and cut into inch pieces, may be used for the same 
purpose. 

CHOCOLATE AND COCOA 

Your teacher will tell you about the ciJtivation of the cocoa 
tree and where it grows, as well as of the size of the pod, and 
number of beans found in each. She will tell you of the diflFer- 
ent parts of the cocoa fruit and show you specimens of shells 
and berries. 

You must learn also about preparation of cocoa for market 
under these headings : — 



Digitized by 



Google 



BEVERAGES 



39 



Drying. 

Roasting. 

Removing covering of bean. 

Breaking and selling as cocoa nibs. 

Removal of fat from beans before cocoa is made. 

Cocoa beans are broken into small pieces known as cocoa 
nibs. 

Chocolate is made from cocoa nibs, which contain a large 
quantity of fat ; cocoa is made from nibs from which much of 
the fat has been removed. This fat obtained from the cocoa 
bean is known as cocoa butter. 

Cocoa shells are the outer covering of the bean. 

Both chocolate and cocoa contain much nourishment. 
Cocoa is used as a beverage by young people and chocolate as 
a beverage, and also as a confection. 

Chocolate and cocoa are improved in flavor by boiling for 
a few minutes. 

Scalded Milk. — 

Use (as substitute for cream). 

Method. 

Appearance. 



RECIPE 6. 

1 tbs. cocoa 
1 tbs. sugar 

1 e. boiling water 

2 c. hot milk 



BREAKFAST COCOA 

Scald the milk ; mix the cocoa and sugar, 
add one half of the boiling water, and make a 
smooth paste. Add the remaining water 
and boil the mixture for two minutes ; re- 
move the chocolate pot from the fire, add 
the hot milk, and serve the cocoa at once. 



RECIPE 7. 

3 c. milk 
2 tbs. cocoa 
2 tbs. sugar 
1 ts. cornstarch 
Spk. salt 



RECEPTION COCOA 

Scald the milk in a double boiler ; mix well 
the cocoa, sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a 
saucepan; stir in gradually 1 c. boiling 
water and boil the mixture five minutes, 
stirring it constantly. Turn this mixture 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 



FIRST YEAR 



1 c. boiling water 
i is. vanilla 



into the hot milk in the boiler and beat it 
with an egg beater for five minutes, or until 
it is foamy. Serve the cocoa in chocolate 
cups with whipped cream on top. 



Fruit 

General Composition. — Fruit contains water, sugar, acids, 
and a small percentage of proteid. 

Food Value. — Good fruit is very wholesome, and should be 
used freely, both fresh and cooked. The former, if not eaten 
underripe or overripe, is easily digested. 

The fruits most conmionly used are apples, pears, peaches, 
plums, cherries, grapes, bananas, pineapples, currants, aiid 
various kinds of berries. 



ItECIPE 8. 

6 tart apples 
6 tbs. water 
6 ts. sugar 



RECIPE 9. I 

6 large sour apples 
J c. sugar 

1 c. water 

2 thin strips lemon 
rind, or 

8 whole cloves 
Spk. salt 



BAKED APPLES 

Wash the apples, pare them or leave the 
skins on, and remove the cores. Place them 
in an earthen or granite baking dish. Allow 
1 ts. of sugar in center of each apple, and 1 
tbs. of water for each apple, pouring water 
around the fruit. Bake the apples in a hot 
oven until they are soft, basting them fre- 
quently. Place the apples in a dish, and 
pour the juice around them. Serve them 
hot or cold, and with milk or cream if 
desired. 

APPLE SAUCE 

Wipe, quarter, pare, and core the apples. 
Make a sirup of sugar, water, lemon rind, 
and a few grains of salt, by boiling them 
together for seven minutes. Add enough 
apples to cover the bottom of the saucepan. 
As soon as the apples are soft, lift them 
out with a spoon, and place them in the 
serving dish. Continue until all the apples 
are cooked, then strain sirup over them and 
serve them hot or cold. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FRUIT 



41 



R£CIP£ lo. n 

6 tart apples 
1 c. water 
1 strip lemon rind 
i c. sugar 
Spk. salt 



R£CIP£ II. 

6 apples (pared, 
quartered, and 
cored) 

i c. sugar 

I e. water 

JEtECnPE 12. 

1 qt. rhubarb 

(cut into J-inch 
pieces) 

2 c. sugar 



R£CIPE 13. 



RECIPE 14. 

4 bananas 
J c. sugar 
IJ tbs. melted 

butter 
2 tbs. boiling 

water 
Juice of 1 lemon 

RECIPE 15. 

1 qt. cranberries 

2 c. sugar 



APPLE SAUCE 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core the apples ; 
cook the water, sugar, salt, and lemon rind 
for five minutes. Add the apples and cook 
them until they are tender (stirring them 
occasionally). Remove the lemon rind. 
Pour the sauce into a dish and allow it to 
cool before serving it. 

BAKED APPLE SAUCE 

Put the apples into a pudding dish, and 
.add the water and sugar. Cover the dish 
tightly and bake the apples in a slow oven 
until they are soft, and deep red in color. 

STEAMED RHUBARB SAUCE 

Cut off the leaves and the root and wash 
the stalks and cut them into J-inch lengths. 
Put the rhubarb into a double boiler, add 
the sugar, and cover the boiler tight. 
Cook the rhubarb until it is soft ; do not 
stir it, as pieces should be imbroken. 

BAKED RHUBARB 

Prepare rhubarb as in No. 12 and bake it 
in a covered baking dish in moderate oven, 
until it is tender and deep red in color. 

BAKED BANANAS 
Peel the bananas, cut them into halves 
lengthwise, and lay them on«an old platter. 
Mix the melted butter, sugar, water, and 
lemon juice together ; pour half of the mix- 
ture over the bananas and put them into a 
slow oven. Bake them fifteen to twenty 
minutes, using remaining mixture for bast- 
ing them. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Pick over and wash the cranberries. 
Put them into a saucepan with the water ; 



Digitized by 



Google 



42 FIRST YEAR 

2 c. water cover them and cook them for ten minutes. 

Add the sugar and boil them three minutes 
longer. 

Dried Fruits. — The dried fruits most commonly used are 
apples, apricots, currants, raisins, and prunes. 

General Directions for Preparing Dried Fruits. — Wash 
the fruit well in several waters, being sure to remove all dust. 
When the water is clear, put the fruit into a saucepan, cover 
it with cold water, and let it soak for several hours, or over- 
night. Use enough of the water in which the fruit was 
soaked to cover the fruit, and cook it until it is tender. 
Sweeten the fruit to taste and cook it five minutes longer. 

RECIPE i6. STEWED PRUNES 

1 lb. prunes Wash the prunes thoroughly, put them 

i c. sugar into a saucepan, and cover them with cold 

1 qt. cold water water. Soak them overnight and cook 

4 thlA sUces lemon them next morning in the same water un- 
til they are soft. When they are nearly 
cooked, add slices of lemon and sugar, and 
cook them five minutes longer. Let the 
lemon remain in the juice imtil the prunes 
are ready for serving. 

Dry apricots may be cooked in the same 
way. 

Vegetables 

Experiments to show the Structure of Vegetables. 

1. Hold a crosswise section of a piece of potato up to the 
light. How many distinct parts can you find? The out- 
side layer is about one fourth to one half inch thick. It is 
slightly colored and turns green when left in the light. It 
is composed of a woody substance which we call cellulose 
and is denser than the rest of the potato. The next layer 
contains the great bulk of the food ingredients. The inte- 
rior or the core is shaped a little like a star and contains 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 43 

more cellulose and less water, than the other interior 
layer. 

2. Examine crosswise sections of a carrot, a beet, and 
other vegetables in season. 

Experiments to show the Composition of Vegetables. 

1. Grate a small piece of potato. Place it in a strainer 
and pour cold water through the strainer, collecting the water 
in a bowl. 

2. Allow the water in the bowl to stand — what happens? 
Test some of the sediment with iodine solution. 

3. Mix the contents of the bowl together and boil the 
mixture. 

4. Examine the part of the potato that is left in the 
strainer. Put it in a dry place and evaporate the moisture 
from it slowly. 

5. Weigh another small piece of potato, let it stand in the 
kitchen a few days, weigh it again, and compare its weight 
with the original weight. 

6. Place another piece of potato on a pan, in a hot oven. 
Keep it there until the potato has apparently disappeared ; 
examine any residue that has remained. 

From these six experiments write out the composition of 
the potato. Do the same with the other vegetables in 
season. 

General Composition. — Vegetables contain mineral salts, 
which are important to health, and water and cellulose. 

Cellulose is a fibrous substance which is not digestible, 
but is important because it gives bulk ; some vegetables con- 
tain starch and proteid. 

Food Value. — Vegetables when in season are a very eco- 
nomical item of food, and are always a very necessary part 
of our diet. 

•Manner of Growth. — Vegetables may be classed under 
two heads : those growing above ground, as squash, cabbage. 



Digitized by 



Google 



44 FIRST YEAR 

beans, tomatoes, etc., and those growing underground, as 
potatoes, radishes, turnips, carrots, etc. 

Useful Parts. — Different parts of different plants are used 
as food, as the following table shows : — 

Roots. — Beets, radishes, sweet potatoes, turnips, carrots. 

Tubers. — Potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes. 

Bulbs. — Onions, garlic, etc. 

Leaves. -^ Beet greens, spinach, lettuce, dandelions, cabbage. 

Fruit. — Cucumbers, squash, tomatoes, egg plant, etc. 

/Seeds. — Beans, peas, lentils, and com. 

Care of Vegetables. — Winter vegetables, with the excep- 
tion of squashes, should be kept in a dry, cold place and packed 
in barrels or bins to exclude air. 

Squashes should be spread out in a dry, rather warm place. 
If dark spots begin to appear on squashes, they should be 
used at once. 

Smnmer vegetables should be cooked as soon as possible 
after they are gathered. Fresh vegetables are much better 
flavored than those which have been picked long before use. 

Selection of Vegetables. — Select vegetables of medium 
size, small rather than large. They are cheaper because more 
come in a given measure, and better, as the large vegetables 
are sometimes old and tough and poor in flavor. 

General Directions for Preparing and Cooking Vegetables. 
— Select vegetables of equal size. 

Wash them thoroughly, and pare, scrape, or peel them. 

If possible, allow them to soak in cold water a few hours 
before cooking. This is especially important if they are wilted. 

Cook them until they are tender, in freshly boiling, salted 
water, allowing one tablespoon of salt to each quart of water. 

Strongly flavored vegetables, such as cabbage, onions, and 
turnips, should be cooked uncovered, and the water should 
be changed every fifteen minutes, boiling water being us§d 
to replace that which is thrown away. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 



45 



Green v^etables, such as spinach, peas, and dandelions, 
should be cooked covered so as to preserve the color. 

Most vegetables may be acceptably served plain with 
butter, salt, and pepper, or with white sauce. 

General Rule for Seasoning Vegetables. — For 1 qt. of 
cooked vegetables use 4 tbs. butter, 1 ts. salt, | ts. pepper. 
More salt and less butter may be used ; and seasoning may be 
varied to suit taste. 



RECIPE 17. 



RECIPE 18. 

6 baked potatoes 
1 tbs. butter 
} ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 
1 c. milk 
1 egg beaten 

RECIPE 19. 



BAKED POTATOES 

Select medium-sized potatoes and scrub 
them thoroughly with a brush. Bake them 
(about thirty-five minutes, or until they are 
soft, turning them occasionally) on the grate 
of a hot oven. When they are done, press 
them in a cloth until the skins break, re- 
place them in the oven three or four minutes 
in order to let steam escape and to prevent 
sogginess. Serve them at once in a folded 
napkin or an uncovered dish. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Cut a slice from the end of a baked 
X>otato, or split it, scrape out the inside 
with a fork ;. mash and season it, and add 
milk, which has been heated, and beaten 
egg, and beat the mixture well. Return the 
mixture to the shell and heat it. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of imiform size. Wsbsh 
them, and pare them thinly; if possible, 
allow them to stand in cold water one hour 
before cooking. Cook them until they are 
soft, in freshly boiling water to which salt 
hsbs been added. Drain them, remove the 
cover, and shake them over the fire until they 
are dry. Serve them hot. 



pigitized by 



Google 



46 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 20. 



RECIPE 31. 

6 boiled potatoes 
2 tbs. butter 
i ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 
About 4 tbs. hot 
milk. 

RECIPE 33. 
4 boiled potatoes 
} ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 
Milk to cover, or i c. 

to 1 c. potatoes 
2 tbs. butter 

1 ts. chopped pars- 
ley 

RECIPE 33. 

2 c. pea beans 
i lb. salt pork 

1 ts. salt 

2 tbs. molasses 
1 c. boiling water 



RICED POTATOES 

Prepare boiled potatoes according to 
No. 19. Then pass them quickly through 
a hot ricer and serve them at once. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Mash the boiled potatoes, add the butter, 
salt, and pepper. Add the milk slowly and 
beat the mixture with a fork until it is 
light, white, and foamy. Heap it lightly 
on a hot dish. 



CREAMED POTATOES 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Cut 
the x>otatoes into cubes and put them into 
milk. Add seasoning and cook the cubes 
slowly until the milk is absorbed (about 
} hour). Add the butter and parsley and 
serve the dish at once. 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

Cover the beans with cold water and 
soak them overnight. In the morning 
drain off the water. Add fresh cold water 
and simmer the beans until they are tender 
or until the skins crack. Drain the beans. 
Scald the rind of the pork, scrape it, and 
gash it into half-inch slices. Put the beans 
into a bean pot and put the pork in, leaving 
only the rind exposed. Mix the molasses, 
salt, and boiling water together and pour 
the mixture into the bean pot, then add 
enough boiling water to cover the beans. 
Cover the bean pot, put it into the oven, and 
bake the beans slowly eight hours, remov- 
ing the cover the last hour to brown the 
rind of the pork. Add boiling water from 
time to time throughout the baking. 



Digitized by 



Google 



VEGETABLES 



47 



RECIPE 24. 

(For scalloped 
dishes, and cream 
soups.) 

1 tbs. flour 

2 tbs. butter to 1 c. 
milk 

} ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

RECIPE 35. 

(For cream toast, 
vegetables, fish, and 
meat.) 

2 tbs. flour 

2 tbs. butter to 1 c. 
milk 

1 ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

RECIPE 26. 

(For croquettes.) 
4 tbs. flour 

2 tbs. butter to 1 c. 
milk 

} ts. salt 
Spk. i)epper 

RECIPE 37. 



WHITE SAUCE 

L TfflN WHITE SAUCE 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with a 
little cold milk and smooth out all lumps. 
Add the flour mixture to the hot milk, 
stirring constantly. Boil it about five 
minutes ; add the salt, pepper, and butter. 



n. MEDIUM WHITE SAUCE 
Scald the milk. Melt the butter and add 
the flour to the melted butter, smoothing 
out all lumps. Add the hot milk very 
slowly, stirring it constantly. Boil it five 
minutes ; add the salt and pepper. 



ra, THICK WHITE SAUCE 

Rub the butter and the flour together, 
add the hot milk slowly, and press out all 
lumps. Stir the mixture and cook it imtil 
it is smooth and thick; add the salt and 
pepper. 

BOILED BEETS 

Select small, young beets. Wash them, 
being careful not to break the skins. Leave 
on the end of the root and about 1 inch of 
the top. Cook them in boiling water, with- 
out salt, imtil they are tender (2) hours 
or longer). When they are done, put them 
into cold water and rub off the skins. 
Slice the beets and serve them in vinegar, 
or season them with salt, pepper, and 
butter. 



Digitized by 



Google 



48 FIRST YEAR 

RECIPE 38. BOILED TURNIPS 

Wash and pare the turnips and cut them 
into one-inoh slices; add salt to freshly 
boiling water and cook the slices until they 
are soft. Drain and mash them, adding 
butter, salt, and pepper. Serve the mashed 
turnip at once on a hot dish. 

RECIPE 29. BOILED CARROTS 

Wsbsh and scrape the carrots, and cut 
them into one-inch slices. Add salt to 
freshly boiling water and cook the slices 
imtil they are soft. Drain them, cut them 
into cubes, and serve them in white sauce, 
or seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper. 

RECIPE 30. BOILED PARSNIPS 

Treat parsnips same as carrots in No. 29. 

RECIPE 31. BOILED ONIONS 

Peel the onions under water and cook 
them until they are soft in freshly boiling 
water to which salt has been added, change 
ing water frequently. Serve them with 
butter, salt, and pepper, or with thin white 
- sauce. 

Time Table for Boiling Vegetables 

The time for cooking depends on the age of the vegetables. 

Asparagus (young), 20 to 30 minutes. 

Asparagus (old), 30 to 60 minutes. 
Beans (string), 1 to 2 hours. 

Beans (shelled), 1^ to 2 hours. 

Beets (young), 30 to 50 minutes. 
Beets (old), 3 to 5 hours. 

Cabbage (young), 30 minutes. 
Cabbage (old), 2 to 2J hours. 

Cauliflower, 25 to 55 minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STALE BREAD 



49 



Green com, 

Dandelions, 

Onions, 

Parsnips, 

Potatoes, 

Potatoes (sweet). 

Spinach and other greens,* 

Squash (summer). 

Squash (winter), 

Turnips, 



10 to 20 minutes. 

2 to 2| hours. 
50 minutes to 1^ hours. 

1 to 2 hours. 
25 to 40 minutes. 
30 to 55 minutes. 
20 to 60 minutes. 
20 to 55 minutes. 

1 to li hours. 
40 to 60 minutes. 



STALE BREAD 



Never throw away old bread, but use it under some of the 
following recipes. 



RECIPE 32. 



RECIPE 33* 



RECIPE 34. 



DRIED BREAD CRUMBS 
Break stale bread into small pieces, put 
them in a shallow pan, and dry them in a 
cool oven. When they are dry, roll them 
fine, using a rolling pin on a pastry board ; 
when they are cool, put them into a glass 
jar and cover them with a piece of muslin 
tied over the top of the jar. 

Bread crumbs are used for covering 
articles of food to be cooked in deep fat; 
and also for the top of scalloped dishes. 

BUTTERED BREAD CRUMBS 
Grate or crumble stale bread into fine 
crumbs. Allow 2 tbs. of melted butter to 
1 cup of bread crumbs. Pour butter over 
the crumbs and stir them with a fork until 
the crumbs are well coated with butter. 

CROUTONS 

Cut stale bread into J-inch slices, and 
remove the crusts; cut the slices into J- 
inch cubes. Put the cubes in a shallow 



Digitized by 



Google 



50 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 35. 



RECIPE 36. 



RECIPE 37. 



RECIPE 38. 

1 0. bread crumbs 
(center of loaf) 

} ts. salt 

2 c. milk 

1 egg (beaten light) 
1 ts. vanilla or 
i ts. nutmeg 



pan and bake them in a moderate oven un- 
til they are a golden brown. Turn them fre- 
quently while baking to brown all surfaces. 
Serve them with soups. 

PLAIN TOAST 

Cut stale bread into moderately thick 
slices. Put them into a toaster and move 
it slowly over fire until the bread is dry ; 
bring the slices nearer the fire and allow 
them to become light brown. Turn them 
constantly while toasting. Butter them 
and serve them while they are hot. Avoid 
placing a cover over toast. The slices may 
be made more attractive by being cut 
diagonally and then placed on a hot dish or 
platter. 

MILK TOAST 

Make mediimi white sauce according to 
No. 24 and pour it over toast. 

BAKED CRACKERS 

Split common Boston crackers and put a 
thin spreading of butter on the inside. 
Put the halves on a tin sheet or pan and 
bake them light brown in a hot oven; 
serve them hot with soup, or cold with 
cheese. 

BREAD PUDDING 

Put the bread crumbs into a buttered 
baking dish. Pour on the milk and let the 
crumbs soak in the milk J hour; add the 
sugar, salt, beaten egg, and favoring. Set 
the dish into a pan of hot water and cook 
in a moderate oven until the pudding is 
firm and brown on top (about thirty-five 
minutes), i cup of small seedless raisins 
may be added. Serve the pudding plain or 
with hard sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCH 



61 



RECIPE 39. 



CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

Add to No. 38 two tbs. cocoa and omit 
the flavoring. 
iServe the pudding plain or with hard 



RECIPE 40. 

2 c. bread crumbs 
(center of loaf) 
5 c. sliced apple 
} ts. cinnamon 
} ts. salt 
i 0. sugar 
i c. boiling water 
4 tbs. butter 



SCALLOPED APPLE AND BREAD 
PUDDING 

Wash, pare, core, and slice the apples. 
Arrange the crumbs and apples in alternate 
layers in a buttered baking dish with but- 
tered cnimbs on top (No. 33). Sprinkle 
each layer of apples with sugar, salt, and 
spice, moisten it with water, and dot it with 
small pieces of butter. Put buttered crumbs 
on top. Cover the pudding and bake for 
one hour in a slow oven. Remove the cover 
and bake the pudding until the crumbs are 
brown. Serve the pudding with lemon 
sauce (No. 22). 



Starch 

Composition. — Starch is composed of grains, each grain 
being covered with a thin skin. 

Appearance. — Starch, as we know it, ' is a fine white 
powder. 

Sources. — It is found largely throughout the vegetable 
kingdom, and in abundance in seeds, grains, roots, and tubers. 

Food Value. — Starch is a heat giver and a strength pro- 
ducer, and is one of the most important foods. During the 
process of digestion starch is changed into sugar. 

Experiments. --- Your teacher will perform experiments 
from which you will learn : — 

(a) Starch mixes with cold water, but is not affected by it. 

(6) Starch should be mixed with cold water to form a 
smooth paste before boiling water is added, or the starch 
will be lumpy, 



Digitized by 



Google 



52 FIRST YEAR 

(c) Boiling water swells and bursts the starch grains. 

(d) Moisture and heat are necessary to soften starch 
grains. 

(e) The presence of starch in foods may be shown by means 
of iodine which turns starch solutions a beautiful blue. 

Cooking Starch. — All starchy foods . require a longj 
thorough cooking at a high temperature to make them 
digestible. 

Agents for Thickening. — The common agents used for 
thickening are flour, corn starch, arrowroot, rice flour, potato 
flour, and eggs ; gelatin, junket, and sea moss are often used 
for thickening milk. 

Starch thickens more than flour, therefore only half as much 
starch as flour needs to be used to thicken a measure of 
liquid. 

Table for Thickening 

1 tbs. flour will thicken 1 cup liquid for soup. 

2 tbs. of flour will thicken 1 cup of liquid for gravies or 
sauces. 

1 egg is used to 1 cup of milk for soft or baked custard. 
1 level tbs. granulated gelatin will stififen 1 pt. of liquid 
after the mixture is ice cold. 

DESSERT STARCHES 

Corn starch. Tapioca. 
Arrowroot. Sago. 

RECIPE 41. CORN STARCH BLANCMANGE 

6 tbs. com starch Scald 2J c. milk. Mix together the 

3 tbs. sugar corn starch, sugar, salt, and i o. cold 
i ts. salt milk. When the mixture is smooth, add 
3 c. milk hot milk and cook the mixture over fire for 
i ts. vanilla five minutes, stirring constantly. Cook 

the mixture over boiling water ^f or twenty- 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCH 



53 



RECIPE 42. 



RECIPE 43. 



RECIPE 44* 

i c. Irish moss 
3 0. milk 
Spk. salt 
1 ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 45. 

4 tbs. tapioca 
(" minute tapi- 
oca '*> 
i c. sugar 
i ts. salt 

2 c. boiling water 
1 can peaches, or 
1 pt. jar of peaches 



five minutes longer; remove it from the 
fire, add the vanilla, and pour the mixture 
into a cold, wet mold. Serve it cold with 
cream, or milk, and sugar. Crushed straw- 
berries or sliced peaches may be served with 
blancmange. 

CHOCOLATE BLANCMANGE 

Chocolate blancmange may be made by 
adding 1^ tbs. of cocoa to No. 41 and 
omitting^ the vanilla. 

> 
FRUIT CORN STARCH BLANCMANGE 

One cup of any kind of cooked fruit may 
be added to No. 41 just before the blanc- 
mange is poured into the mold. 

IRISH MOSS BLANCMANGE 

Soak the moss in cold water for fifteen 
minutes. Pick it over, wash it, tie it in a 
thin bag, and put it into double boiler with 
the milk. Cook it about thirty minutes, or 
until the milk is thickened. Remove the 
boiler from the fire, lift out the moss, and 
add the salt and vanilla; pour the blanc- 
mange into a cold, wet mold and set it aside 
to cool. Serve the blancmange plain with 
sugar and milk, or surround it with fresh 
strawberries or sliced banana, and serve it 
with sugar and cream. 

PEACH TAPIOCA 

Soak the tapioca in \ c. of cold water 
for five minutes, add the boiling water and 
salt, and cook the mixture in a double 
boiler until the tapioca is* transparent. 
Add the sugar. Put halves of peaches into 
a serving dish and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. Pour the cooked tapioca over the 
peaches and set it aside to cool. Serve it 
cold with cream, milk, or whipped cream. 



Digitized by 



Google 



54 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 46. 

i c. ** minute 

tapioca " or sago 
} c. sugar 
i ts. salt 

i ts. cinnamon, or 
Spk. nutmeg 

2 c. boiling water 

3 tart apples 



RECIPE 47. 

2 tbs. tapioca 

3 tbs. sugar 
i ts. salt 

2 c. scalded milk 

2 eggs 

} ts. vanilla 



APPLE TAPIOCA OR SAGO 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core the apples. 
Soak the tapioca for five minutes in J c. 
cold water. Cook the tapioca in boiling 
water in a double boiler until it is trans- 
parent, and add the sugar, salt, and spice. 
Put the quartered apples into a buttered 
pudding dish, pour on tapioca mixture, and 
cook it in a moderate oven until the apples 
are tender. Serve it with sugar, cream, or 
milk. 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

Scald the milk, mix the tapioca, sugar, 
and salt; pour the scalded milk on the 
mixture and cook it in a double boiler 
about fifteen minutes, stirring it occa- 
sionally. Separate the yolks and whites 
of the eggs, beat them until they are light, 
add the beaten yolks to the tapioca mixture, 
and cook it three minutes, stirring it con- 
stantly. Remove it from the fire ; add the 
vanilla and the beaten whites. 



STARCH IN T^HE FORM OF MACARONI, SPAGHETTI, AND VER- 
MICELLI 

Your teacher will expect you to know something about 
the following points concerning these starchy foods : — 
Food value. 
Where produced ? 
From what made ? 
How shaped ? 
How colored ? 
Combination of fat with macaroni. 



RECIPE 48. 



BOILED MACARONI 

Break macaroni into inch pieces. Cook 
it until tender (about twenty-five minutes) 



Digitized by 



Google 



STARCH 



55 



RECIPE 49. 
1} c. macaroni 
} c. grated cheese 
1 c. white sauce 

(see No. 24) 
IJ o. buttered 
crumbs 



RECIPE 50. 

2 c. boiled spaghetti 

(seasoned) 
li c. stewed 

tomatoes 
1 c. buttered 

bread crumbs 



m boiling, salted water, allowing 1 table- 
spoon of salt to 1 quart of water, and using 
enough boiling water to cover it well. 
Pour the macaroni into a colander and 
run cold water through to keep pieces from 
adhering. Reheat it; season it with salt, 
pepper, and butter. Serve it very hot. 

Boiled macaroni may be served plain or 
with white sauce or tomato sauce. 

BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

Cook the macaroni as in No. 48. Put a 
layer of boiled macaroni into a buttered 
baking dish, sprinkle over it one half of the 
grated cheese and add one half of the white 
sauce. Repeat. Put buttered crumbs on 
top and bake it in a moderate oven until 
the sauce boils up around sides of the dish 
and the crumbs become brown. 

BAKED SPAGHETTI AND TOMATO 

BoU spaghetti as directed for macaroni in 
No. 48. Put one half of the boiled spa- 
ghetti into a buttered baking dish, then 
one half of the tomato. Repeat, putting 
buttered bread crumbs on top and bake it 
as directed for macaroni and cheese in No. 
49. 



Cereals 

Group what you are taught concerning cereals under the 
following heads : — 
Food value. 
Composition. 
Kinds. 

Where grown ? 
Manner of growth. 
Distribution. 



Digitized by 



Google 



56 



FIRST YEAR 



(The story of Ceres is a pleasing one to write about in your 
language work.) 

General Directions for Cooking Cereals. — Before pouring 
on boiling water, fine granular cereals should be first mixed 
with cold water to prevent lumping. Always use freshly 
boiling water, and add salt to the water for flavor. Cook the 
cereal directly over heat for about 10 minutes, stirring it 
constantly to avoid burning; then continue the cooking 
over boiling water until it is thoroughly cooked, the time 
depending on the cereal. Coarse cereals should be stirred 
with a fork. 

Cereals may be served with cream, milk, or fruits. 

Time Table for Cooking Cereals 





Cbbeal 


Water 


Salt 


Time 


RoUedOats . . . . . 


Ic. 


2 to 3 C. 


1 ts. 


40 m. 


Rolled Wheat . 






Ic. 


2 c. 


1 ts. 


45 m. 


Cream of Wheat 






Ic. 


4 c. 


IJ ts. 


45 m. 


Fine Hominy . 






Ic. 


4 c. 


li ts. 


60 m. 


Coarse Oatmeal 






' 1 c. 


4ic. 


li ts. 


. 5h. 


Cracked Wheat 






Ic. 


4 c. 


li ts. 


5h. 


Rice (steamed) . 






Ic. 


3 c. 


li ts. 


45 to 60 m. 


Corn-meal Mush . 






Ic. 


3 to 3i c. 


lits. 


3h. 



RECIPE 51. 

1 c. rolled oats 

i ts. salt 

3 c. boiling water 



ROLLED OATS 

Pick over the oats and remove any par- 
ticles of dirt. Put the boiling water and 
salt into the upper part of a double boiler 
and sprinkle in the oats. Cook it over fire 
for ten minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Cover it and cook it thirty minutes longer 
over boiling water. , 



Digitized by 



Google 



CEREALS 



57 



RECIPE 53. 

1 c. cream of wheat 

i ts. salt 

4 e. boiling water 



RECIPE 53. 

1 c. coarse oatmeal 

li ts. salt 

4i c. boiling water 



RECIPE 54. 

1 o. com meal 
1 tbs. flour 
1} ts. salt 

1 c. cold milk 

2 c. boiling water 



RECIPE 55. 



RECIPE 56. 

1 c. rice 
1} ts. salt 
3 c. boiling water 
(about) 



CREAM OF WHEAT 

Mix the cream of wheat and salt with 
cold water enough to make a smooth paste. 
Pour on boiHng water and cook it over the 
fire for ten minutes, stirring it constantly. 
CovOT it and cook it over boiling water for 
forty-five minutes, stirring' it occasionally. 

OATMEAL MUSH 

Put the boiling water and salt into the 
upper part of a double boiler. Sprinkle in 
the oatmeal. Cook it over the fire for ten 
minutes, stirring it constantly. Cover it, 
and cook it for five hours over boiling water, 
stirring it occasionally. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH OR HASTY PUD- 
DING 

Mix the meal, flour, and salt thoroughly 
in the upper part" of a double boiler ; wet 
the mixture with cold milk. Stir out all 
lumps. Pour on boiling water and cook it 
directly over the fire for ten minutes, stir- 
ring it constantly. Cover it and cook it 
over boiling water for three hours longer. 
Serve it hot with cream or milk. 

FRIED CORN-MEAL MUSH 

Make corn-meal mush as directed in No. 
54 ; turn it into a wet bread pan and allow 
it to cool. When it is cool, cut it into 
slices and brown it in hot butter, oil, or salt- 
pork fat. Serve it plain or with butter and 
maple sirup. 

STEAMED RICE 

Pick the rice over carefully, washing it 
three or four times. When it is clean, put 
it into the upper part of a double boiler 
and add the boiling water and salt. Boil 



Digitized by 



Google 



58 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 57. 

J c. rice 
i ts. salt 
} c. sugar 

Spk. grated nutmeg 
1 qt. or 4 c. hot 
milk 



it over the fire for eight minutes, stirring it 
constantly. Cover it, and cook it over 
boiling water for about thirty-five minutes 
longer, or until it is soft. Press it into a 
c<^d, wet mold. Serve it with foamy sauce 
(No. 231), yellow sauce (No. 233), cream, 
or milk. 

SIMPLE BAKED MCE PUDDING 

Scald the milk. Wash the rice and pift 
it with salt, sugar, and nutmeg into a 
buttered baking dish, and pour on the hot 
milk. Bake it in a moderate over from 
three to four hours or until the^ice is 
thoroughly soft and the pudding is^eamy. 
Stir it with a fork every five mmutes until 
the last half hour. Then allow^e pudding 
to brown. 

One cup scalded raisins ""added to the 
above recipe improves the pudding. 

BOILED RICE 

' Pick over and wash the rice ; add it 
slowly to the boiling salted water, so as 
not to check the boiling. Boil it until it is 
soft (about thirty minutes). 

Scalloped Dishes 

In order to utilize leftover portions of food or to produce 
an attractive and appetizing variety, scalloped dishes may 
be made from fish, cold meats, cold vegetables, crackers, or 
stale bread crumbs ; to which may be added white sauce or 
tomato sauce in the proportion of 1 part of sauce to 2 
parts of bread, meat, fish, or vegetables. 

Cracker Crumbs. — Save the crumbs from cracker boxes. 
Put them with conmion crackers, roll them with a rolling pin 
until they are fine, and sift them. Plain or buttered they add 
to many of the scalloped dishes. 



RECIPE 58. 

1 c. rice 

1 tbs. salt 

2 qt. boiling water 



Digitized by 



Google 



SCALLOPED DISHES 



59 



RECIPE 59. 



RECIPE 60. 



RECIPE 61. 



RECIPE 6a. 



RECIPE 63. 

1 can tomatoes 

1 tbs. chopped onion 

2 ts. salt 



BUTTERED CRACKER CRUMBS 

Allow 4 tbs. of melted butter to 1 o. 
cracker crumbs, using . a fork to stir .the 
crumbs and butter together. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. I 

Cut cold, boiled potatoes into slices. 
Put a layer into a buttered baking dish, 
cover them with a thin white sauce, and 
repeat, putting a layer of buttered crumbs 
on top. Cover the dish and cook them in a 
hot oven one half hour. Remove the cover 
and brown the crumbs. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. U 

Wash and pare raw potatoes, and cut 
them into very thin slices. Soak one half 
hour in hot water to remove any bitter 
flavor. Drain them and put them in layers 
into a buttered dish, seasoning each layer 
with salt, pepper, butter, and a sprinkling 
of flour. Add enough milk to cover them. 
Put buttered crumbs on top and bake them 
in a slow oven one and one half hours, cover- 
ing them for the first hour, then cooking 
them uncovered until the crumbs are brown. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS 

Cut boiled onions into quarters. Put 
them into a buttered baking dish and cover 
them with thin white sauce. Sprinkle with 
small pieces of butter. Repeat. Cover 
the top with buttered bread or cracker 
crumbs. Cover them and bake them in a 
hot oven three quarters of an hour, then 
remove the cover and brown the crumbs. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Drain most of the liquid from the toma- 
toes, and add to the tomatoes, the onion, 
salt, and pepper. Put a layer of bread 



Digitized by 



Google 



60 FIRST YEAR 

J ts. pepper orumbs in a baking dish, cover it with 

2 c. bread crumbs tomatoes and put buttered crumbs on top. 
4 tbs. butter Bake them, covered, in a hot oven one half 

hour. Remove the cover and brown the 

crumbf. 

RECIPE 64. SCALLOPED RICE AND TOMATOES 

Put alternate layers of cooked rice and 
canned tomatoes in a baking dish ; sprinkle 
each layer of tomatoes with salt and 
pepper. Cover them wi th bu ttered crumbs. 
Bake them, covered, in a hot oven until 
the mixture is hot ; then remove the cover 
and brown the crumbs. 



Digitized by 



Google 



COMPOSITION OF FOODS 61 

Composition of Foods 

Kinds of Food. — Foods may be divided into five groups: — 
Proteids. Fats and oils. 

Carbohydrates. Mineral matter. 
Water. 

Proteids are necessary to life. Their chief oflSce is to build 
up and repair wom-out tissue, although they also furnish 
energy. They form a part of both animal and vegetable 
foods, and as they contain nitrogen they are often spoken 
of as nitrogenous foods. 

The principal proteid foods are milk, eggs, meat, fish, 
cheese, grains, peas, beans, lentils, and nuts. 

Carbohydrates. — The principal oflSce of the carbohydrate 
foods is to furnish energy. They are foimd in vegetable 
foods and are chiefly starches and sugars ; cereals, vegetables, 
sugars, and fruits are among the carbohydrate foods. 

Fats and Oils. — The principal oflSce of fats and oils is to 
furnish energy. They are found in both animal and vege- 
table foods. Cream, butter, bacon, and other fat of meat, 
fish, olive oil, cotton-seed oil, peanut oil, com oil, and nut 
oil, are classed among the fats and oils. 

Mineral Matter. — The principal oflSce of mineral matter 
is to furnish material for bones. It occurs in the juices of 
fresh meats, in fish, vegetables, fruits, water and salt. 

Water is one of our main foods and is essential to life. It 
makes up about 70 per cent of the weight of the body, and is 
contained to a greater or less extent in all foods. 

About 2 or 3 quarts of water should be taken daily in food 
or drink, as water is necessary to soften and dissolve food and 
to aid in carrying ofiF waste, and keep the blood in good con- 
ditioA. Water also assists in the important work of keeping 
the body at the normal temperature of 98°. 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 FIRST YEAR 

Milk 
General Composition. — Water. 



Proteid 



casern, 
albumin. 
Fat in form of cream. 

Sugar of milk. 
Mineral matter. 
Experiments. — The teacher should have the pupils per- 
form experiments which will show that milk contains : — 
(a) Fat. 
(6) Sugar. 

(c) Albumin. 

(d) Curd and whey. 

Food Value. — Milk is a complete food, because it contains 
all the necessary food elements in such form as can be readily 
digested and made a part of the body. It is the best food for 
infants and is of great value to almost all invalids. Pure 
rich milk is creamy white. Poor milk is blue white. Milk 
should be sipped slowly, as a solid curd, difficult to digest, 
is apt to form in the stomach if it is swallowed hastily. ^ 

If there is doubt as to the freshness of milk, it should be 
scalded in a double boiler. If it is not fresh, it will soon curdle 
or separate. Milk should be scalded before it is used for 
cooking. Boiled milk is considered hard to digest, but 
hot milk is often given to induce sleep. 

Care of Milk. — Absolute cleanliness is essential in the 
handling and care of milk, as it readily absorbs odors and 
impurities, and collects germs of contagious diseases. 

Milk may be made unfit for food, especially for children, 
by careless treatment, such as : — 

(a) Placing it in unclean vessels. 

(6) Exposing it unnecessarily to the air. 

(c) Failing to keep it cool until it is needed for use. 

(d) Exposing it to flies. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MILK 63 

Sterilized milk is milk which has been kept at the boiling 
temperatm-e (212° F.) for 15 minutes. 

Pasteurized milk is milk which has been heated in sterile 
bottles in pans of water kept at a temperature of 155° F. 
for 30 minutes, and then cooled quickly. This process does 
not affect the flavor of the milk. 

Directions for Pasteurizing Milk.. — Sterilize bottles ac- 
cording to the directions for sterilizing jars. 

Bake absorbent cotton in the oven until it is Ught brown, 
placing it on a rest in a deep pan. 

Fill sterile bottles to the neck with milk. Close them with 
baked cotton. 

Place the bottles on a rest in a pan and fill the pan with cold 
water a little above the milk in the bottles. 

Put the pan over the fire and heat it slowly to 155° F. 

Rem^e the pan to the back of the stove and keep the water 
at this^Bnperature (155° F.) for 30 minutes. 

Remove the bottles and cool them as follows : first, place 
them in warm water, and let them stand ten minutes, then 
in cold water five minutes ; then in ice water ten minutes ; 
then place them on ice. 

Skim Milk. — Milk from which the cream has been re- 
moved is called skim milk. 

Condensed milk is milk which has been reduced in bulk 
by evaporation. It is preserved by keeping it in sealed cans. 

Junket. — If sweet milk is allowed to stand undisturbed 
after the addition of rennet (a substance made from the 
lining of a calf's stomach), the custardlike substance which 
forms is called rennet custard or junket. 

RECIPE 65. JUNKET 

i junket tablet Crush the tablet and dissolve it in cold 

1 ts. cold water water. Heat the milk until it is lukewarm, 

2 c. milk add the sugar and flavoring and stir it until 
2 tbs. sugar the sugar is dissolved. Add the dissolved 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 



FIRST YEAR 



i ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 66. 

1 junket tablet 

2 c. milk 
J c. sugar 

J c. boiling water 
i ts. vanilla 



junket. Stir the mixture. Pour it into a 
glass dish or glass cups and let it stand in a 
warm place until it is set or thick; put it 
on ice. Serve it with sugar and cream or 
milk, strawberries, or peaches. 

CARAMEL JUNKET 

Crush the tablet and dissolve it in 1 ts. 
cold water. Cook the sugar and water 
together imtil the sirup is golden brown 
in color ; then cool it until it is just warm. 
Heat the milk until it is lukewarm, add the 
sirup, junket, and vanilla. 

Turn it into a glass dish and let it stand 
in a warm place imtil it is set; then cool 
it and serve it with whipped cream, or 
with cream and sugar. 



Cream Soups 

Cream soups consist generally of a combination of white 
sauce and strained vegetables. The vegetables most com- 
monly used are potatoes, com, celery, carrots, peas, aspara- 
gus, and beans. 

General Method of making Cream Soups. — Cook vege- 
tables until they are tender, and press them through a 
strainer. Use strained pulp with thin white sauce in following 
proportions : 1 c. strained vegetable pulp to 1 c. thin white 
sauce. If the soup is too thick, thin it with hot milk or 
water. 

If a richer soup is desired, add butter or cream. Serve 
the soup with toasted crackers or croutons. 



RECIPE 67. 

4 medium-sized po- 
tatoes, or 2 c. 
mashed potatoes 

3 c. milk 



POTATO SOUP 

Wash and pare the potatoes, and cook 
them until they are soft; drain them and 
mash them. 

Put the milk, water, and onion into the 



Digitized by 



Google 



CREAM SOUPS 



65 



1 c. water 

1 small-sized onion 
cut into quarters 

2 tbs. butter 
2 tbs. flour 
2 ts. salt 

J ts. white pepper 



double boiler and cook the mixture until 
the potatoes are ready. 

Pour the hot milk over the mashed potato, 
put a strainer over the double boiler in which 
the milk was heated, and press the mixture 
through the strainer. Make thin white sauce 
according to No. 24, using 1 c. hot soup 
in place of the milk called for in the recipe ; 
pour the sauce into the soup and cook it 
for eight minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Add the salt and pepper. Serve the soup 
with croutons. 



RECIPE 68. 

1 can com 

2 c. cold water 

1 tbs. chopped onion 

3 c. hot milk 

2 tbs. butter 
2 tbs. flour 
li ts. salt 

J ts. white pepper 



CORN SOUP 

Chop the com and cook it with the 
onion and cold water slowly until the com 
is soft, or about one half hour. Scald the 
milk. Make a mediimi white sauce accord- 
ing to No. 25. Add this to the milk and 
cook it three minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Rub the com through a strainer, add it 
to the milk mixture, boil it three minutes 
longer, and serve it with toasted crackers. 



RECIPE 69. 



RECIPE 70. 



CREAM OF GREEN-PEA SOUP 

Cook peas until they are soft; then 
drain them and press them through a 
strainer. Make a thin white sauce accord- 
ing to No. 24, and add the vegetable pulp. 
Season it with salt and pepper and serve 
it hot with toasted crackers. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Wash celery, cut it into small pieces, 

and boil it until it is soft in just enough 

boiling water to cover it- 
Press it through a strainer, saving and 

using the water in which the celery was 

cooked. 



Digitized by 



Google 



66 



FIRST YEAR 



Make thin white sauce according to No. 
24, and add the celery and water. 

Season it with salt and pepper and serve 
it hot. 



IlECIPE 71. 

Ingredients I 

i c. tomatoes 

2 ts. sugar 

J ts. soda 

i onion (chopped) 

Ingredients II 

2 c. milk 

4 tbs. butter 

4 tbs. flour 

li ts. salt 

i ts. pepper 



TOMATO BISQUE 

Make medium white sauce according 
to No. 25. from ingredients II. Put it in 
the upper part of a double boiler to keep 
hot. 

Cook the tomatoes, onions, and sugar 
together for fifteen minutes. Strain them 
and add the soda. 

Combine the two mixtures, pouring the 
tomato mixture into the white sauce. 
Serve it with toasted crackers, or with 
slender strips of toasted bread. 



RECIPE 72. 

1 can tomatoes 
1§ c. cold water 
6 whole cloves 
6 peppercorns 
1 tbs. choppjed onion 

1 ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

2 tbs. butter 
2 tbs. flour 



TOMATO SOUP 

Cook the tomato, water, onion, cloves, 
and peppercorns together until the toma- 
toes are soft, then strain the mixture. 
Cook the butter and flour according to No. 
25. Pour the flour mixture into the soup, 
cook it for five minutes, stirring it con- 
stantly. Season it and serve it with toasted 
crackers or croutons. 



RECIPE 73. 

2 c. cold baked 
beans 

3 c. cold water 

1 tbs. onion 

2 c. tomatoes 
I ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 



BAKED BEAN SOUP 

Mix the beans, water, and onion, and 
simmer the mixture until the beans are 
soft. Add the tomato. Rub the mixture 
through a strainer, adding more water or 
tomato to make it the right consistency. 
Season it, heat it to the boiling point, and 
serve it with toasted crackers. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BUTTER 67 

RECIPE 74. SPLIT PEA SOUP 

I c. dried split peas Pick over and wash the peas. Put them 

3 c. cold water with the onion and cold water into a sauce- 

1 small onion pan. Let them soak one hour, then simmer 

2 tbs. butter them about two hours, or imtil they are 
2 tbs. flour soft. Rub them through a strainer and put 
1 ts. salt them on to boil again. Add hot milk to 
i ts. white pepper make it the consistency of soup. Make a 
Milk to make thin thickening of the butter and flour according 

to No. 25, pour it into the soup, and boil 
it five minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Serve it with croutons. 

Butter 

Butter is made from the cream of milk, which is composed 
chiefly of little particles of fat. Beating, shaking, or churn- 
ing causes the particles of fat to unite and separate from 
the rest of the milk. 

Butter contains fat, water, proteid (casein), and mineral 
matter. 

Food Value. — Butter is one of the most palatable and 
easily digested of the animal fats. It is made of sweet cream 
or of sour cream. To most people butter made from sweet 
cream tastes very flat and insipid. In America it is usually 
made from sour cream or cream that has been put through a 
process called ripening. 

Cream is ripened by the action of bacteria which thrive 
under certain conditions. If these bacteria have not grown 
and done their work, the butter lacks its distinctive flavor. 

Oleomargarine. — Generally speaking, oleomargarine is 
made from the oily part of purified beef fat churned with 
milk, mixed with some butter, salted, and colored. It is 
clean, wholesome, and nutritious, and looks so much like pure 
butter that it is diflScult to distinguish them one from the 
other. 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 



FIRST YEAR 



Test for distinguishing Butter from Oleomargarine. — Put 

1 tbs. of the substance into a small saucepan and hold the 
saucepan over a gas flame, stirring it thoroughly 'with a 
wooden skewer or a wooden spoon. Let the substance boil, 
but do not let it bum. 

Genuine butter boils with little noise and produces an 
abundance of foam. 

Oleomargarine boils noisily, sputtering like fat which has 
water in it, and produces httle or no foam. 



RECIPE 75. 

1 pt. cream 
J ts. fine table salt, 
or more if desired 



RECIPE 76. 



BUTTER MAKING 

Put the cream into a quart preserving 
jar. Shake it until the butter separates 
from the liquid. Collect the butter par- 
ticles with a wooden spoon and press out 
as much buttermilk as possible. Wash 
the butter several times in cold water, or 
imtil the water is clear. Put it into a dry 
bowl, add salt, and work it well into butter, 
using a wooden spoon. Make the butter 
into shapes or balls. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING BUTTER 
BALLS 

Use small butter paddles. Allow them to 
stand in boiling water about three minutes ; 
then put them into ice water and let them 
stand untU they are thoroughly chilled. 

Cut the butter into inch cubes, put them 
into a bowl of ice water. When they are 
chilled, make them into balls by rolling 
them between the paddles. Put them on a 
plate and set them in the ice box to harden. 



Cheese 

Cheese contains proteid (casein), fat, and water. 
Food Value. — Cheese has a very high food value, con- 
taining a large amount of nourishment in highly concentrated 



Digitized by 



Google 



CHEESE 69 

fonn. Its concentrated proteid and fat make it somewhat 
indigestible, especially to invalids and children ; but for active 
outdoor workers it is one of the cheapest and most nutritious 
of foods. It is a good substitute for meat, and contains more 
proteid to the pound. 

Your teacher will tell you how it is made and allow you to 
make some, perhaps. 

Different girls in the class should leam about these cheeses. 
Find out at the grocery store how they differ in appearance, 
and leam where each comes from. 

Edam cheese ; Swiss cheese ; Roquefort cheese ; Cottage 
cheese; and Camembert cheese. 

Source, —r Cheese, like butter, is a milk product and is 
made from whole milk, skim milk, or milk to which cream 
has been added. 

Process of Making. — Milk is curdled, and the liquid, 
called whey, is drained off. The curd is then subjected to 
heat and pressure, and certain harmless germs are allowed 
to grow in it. Flavoring and coloring matter are added, 
and then it is sometimes stored for a time in cool cellars. 
This last process is called ripening y and some cheeses are kept 
years to ripen and improve the flavor. 

RECIPE 77. BAKED CRACKERS WITH CHEESE 

Bake crackers, as directed in No. 37. 
Chop or grate the cheese. Sprinkle the 
half crackers with grated cheese, return 
them to the oven, and bake them until the 
cheese is melted. 

RECIPE 78. WELSH RAREBIT 

6 slices of toast or Prepare the toast and keep it hot. Melt 

toasted crackers the butter, add cornstarch, and stir it until 

1 tbs. butter it is smooth ; add the cream gradually and 

1 tbs. comstarct cook it ^.bout three minutes. Add the 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 



FIRST YEAR 



1)0. chopped cheese cheese and seasoning, stir it quickly until 
i ts. salt the cheese is melted (and no longer). Pour 

i ts. mustard it over the toast and serve it at once. 

Few grains cayenne 
i c. thin cream or 
milk 

RECIPE 79. CREAMED CHEESE 

Creamed cheese may be made as in No. 
78, but using 1 c. milk and one beaten 
egg. Add the beaten egg last, cook it one 
minute longer. Serve it on toasted crackers. 

CHEESE FONDUE 

Cook the bread crumbs and the milk 
together, in double boiler, stirring it until 
the mixture is hot and smooth; add the 
butter, cheese, salt, and pepper, cook it 
about one minute longer and remove it 
from the fire; add the beaten egg. Bake 
it about twenty minutes in a buttered 
pudding dish or until it is light brown on 
top. Serve it at once. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Cream the cheese and butter together, 
and add the milk; mix the flour, bread 
crumbs, and seasoning, and add these to 
the cheese mixture. Knead it thoroughly, 
or until it is smooth. Roll it thin as pastry, 
cut it into strips about six inches long and 
one inch wide. Bake the strips on a but- 
tered tin sheet in a hot oven for about ten 
minutes, or until they are brown.. 

Eggs 

Teachers will have the egg lessons in the spring when eggs 
are cheapest. 

Before learning how to cook eggs you should know what 
they cost at different seasons of the year. 



RECIPE 80. 

1 c. bread crumbs 
i c. milk 

IJ c. grated cheese 
1 egg beaten well 
1 tbs. butter 
i ts. salt 

Few grains cayenne 
pepper 

RECIPE 81. 

i c. cheese grated 

1 ts. butter 

2 ts. milk 
4 tbs. flour 

i c. fresh bread 

crumbs 
i ts. salt 
Spk. paprika 
Few grains cayenne 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 71 

General Composition. — Eggs contain proteid, aJbumin, 
water, fat, and mineral matter. 

Food Value. — Eggs, like milk, are very nutritions, con- 
taining in the correct proportion all the food elements neces- 
sary for the body. Because of the amount of proteid they 
contain they make an excellent substitute for meat. 

Fresh eggs when properly cooked are very easily digested, 
and raw eggs are even more digestible. It must be remem- 
bered that the manner of cooking greatly affects the digesti- 
bility of eggs. 

Parts of the Egg. — Notice the white and yolk and see 
how the yolk lies in the egg. Find the membrane which 
incloses the yolk, and the membrane which lines the shells. 

The shell is porous and constitutes about one tenth of the 
entire weight. The white is almost pure albumin and water, 
and is called albumen. It contains some mineral matter. 
The yolk is composed of fat, albumin, and mineral matter. 
It is held in place by two cords attached to the white. The 
membrane covering the yolk is very thin and delicate. The 
membrane lining the shell is tough and strong. 

Household Test for Fresh Eggs. — Fresh eggs should be 
heavy and have a slightly rough shell. If dropped into a 
bowl of cold water, they sink inmiediately. 

Methods for Keeping Eggs. — When eggs are kept for 
some time, the water inside evaporates through the porous 
shell. Air passes through the shell to take the place of the 
evaporated water. The air allows changes to occur within 
the shell, as germs often erter with it and increase until the 
egg is spoiled. If the purity of an egg is to be kept, the pores 
of the shell must be closed so as to exclude air and germs. 
This may be done in different ways : — 

By coating them with paraflSn, vaseline, etc. 

By packing them in salt, bran, sawdust, oats, etc. 

By covering them with limewater. 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 FIRST YEAR 

By covering them with soluble glass. 

Eggs are also preserved by the cold-storage method, as 
most germs are inactive at low temperatures. 

Method of Breaking an Egg. — To break an egg hold it 
in the right hand and crack it on the side of a bowl, or hold 
it in the left hand and crack the shell by striking it with a 
knife blade; put the thumbs together at the crack and 
carefully piill the shell apart. 

When using several eggs, break them singly into a cup. 

To separate Yolk and White. — After cracking the shell 
hold the egg upright and break shell apart; let the white 
slide off into a bowl and keep the yolk in one half of the shell ; 
slip the yolk from one half of the shell to the other until the 
white has drained off ; then put the yolk into a separate dish. 

Method of Beating Eggs. — The object of beating eggs is 
to get particles of air between particles of egg. 

Utensils. — Wire beater, or Dover egg beater, or knife, 
or fork. The white should be beaten until it is stiff and dry. 
The yolk should be beaten until it is thick and creamy. 

Experiments. — Find out : (1) What effect cold water has 
on albumen (white of egg). 

(2) What effect water at 160° has on albimien. 

(3) What effect water at 180° has on albumen. 

(4) What effect water at 212° has on albumen. 

RECIPE 82. EGG LEMONADE 

1 egg Beat the egg, add the sugar and lemon 

2 tbs. sugar juice and beat it again; add the water 
IJ tbs. lemon juioe slowly and beat it until it is well mixed. 
} 0. water Strain it and serve it cold. 

RECIPE 83. EGG NOG 

1 egg Beat the yolk and the white of the egg 

1 tbs. sugar^ or more separately ; add the sugar and flavoring to 

if desired the beaten yolk, and add the milk gradu- 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 



73 



f c. milk 

J ts. vanilla, or a 
shake of nutmeg 
and salt (a few 
grains) 

RECIPE 84. 



RECIPE 85. 



RECIPE 86. 



RECIPE 87. 



RECIPE 88. 



ally, beating it in. Strain it into a glass. 
Put the beaten white of the egg on top and 
fold it in. 



STEAMED EGG 

Break an egg into a oup, butter a small 
sauce plate and pour the egg into it. 
Sprinkle it with salt. Place the sauce plate 
in a steamer over boiling water, and cook 
the egg until the white is firm. 

SOFT-COOKED EGGS. I 

Put eggs unbroken into a saucepan; 
cover them with cold water, about one pint 
of water to 2 eggs. 

Set the saucepan over the fire, and as 
soon as the water boils remove the eggs 
and serve them in hot cups. 

SOFT-COOKED EGGS. H 

Put enough boiling water into a saucepan, 
allowing one pint of water for two eggs 
and an extra cupful for each additional egg. 
Place the eggs in the water with a spoon. 
Cover the saucepan ; leave it on the back 
of the range for about eight minutes. If 
the eggs are large, ten minutes is necessary 
for cooking them. 

SOFT-COOKED EGGS. HI 

Put boiling water into both parts of a 
double boiler. Place eggs in upper part 
of boiler with a spoon. Put on the cover 
and let the eggs cook about six minutes. 

HARD-COOKED EGGS 

Cook eggs for forty minutes by the 
method of No. 86, placing the saucepan on 
the back of the range where the water will 
keep hot, but where it will not boil. 



Digitized by 



Google 



74 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 89. DROPPED OR POACHED EGGS 

Prepare a slice of buttered toast for each 
egg. Have a shallow pan two thirds full 
of boiling, salted water (1 ts. salt to two 
cups water). Place a buttered muffin ring 
or a buttered skimmer in the water. 
Break the egg into a cup. Set the sauce- 
pan back where the water will not boil. 
Drop the egg into the ring or on the 
skimmer, allowing the water to cover the 
egg. When the yolk is covered with a film 
and the white is firm, remove the egg from 
the water with a skimmer; drain it and 
place it on hot toast. Serve it at o^ce. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. I 

Beat the eggs only until the yolks and 
the whites are mixed. Add the salt, pepper, 
milk, and parsley. Melt the butter in a 
frying pan or the upper part of a double 
boiler; pour in the egg mixture and cook 
it slowly until it is creamy, scraping the 
mixture from the bottom. Turn it into a 
hot dish and serve it at once. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. II 

No. 90 may be varied by adding a variety 
of chopped meat, chopped cheese, mashed 
vegetables, etc. 

RECIPE 92. CREAMY EGGS 

Creamy eggs are prepared in same way 
as scrambled eggs, excepting that 1 c. milk 
must be added for each egg. The mixture 
must be cooked in a double boiler and 
stirred all the time it is cooking.* 

RECIPE 93. STUFFED OR PICNIC EGGS 

4 hard-cooked eggs Cut the eggs into halves lengthwise, re- 

i c. medium white move the yolks and mash them. Add the 

sauce meat, seasoning, and white sauce ; press it 



RECIPE 90. 

4 eggs 
4 tbs. milk 
i ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 
2 tbs. butter 
1 ts. chopped pars- 
ley (if desired) 

RECIPE 91. 



Digitized by 



Google 



EGGS 



. 75 



i 0. chopped ham, in balls the size of yolks and surround them 

chicken, or other with the halved whites. 

meat 
I ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 



RECIPE 94. 

4 large 



slices 



GOLDENROD EGGS 

Arrange the toast on a platter. Keep 

buttered toast, cut it hot. Remove the shells from the eggs, 

diagonally chop the whites fine and put the yolks into 

2 c. medium white a strainer. Make medium white sauce, add 

the chopped whites to the sauce and pour 

it over the toast. Then press the yolks 

through the strainer, over the white sauce 

and toast. 



sauce 
2 hard-cooked eggs 



RECIPE 95. 

4 c. milk 
4 eggs 
i c. sugar 
i ts. salt 
i ts. nutmeg 



RECIPE 96. 

2 c. scalded milk 

2 eggs 

4 tbs. sugar 

Spk. salt 

i ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 97. 

2 eggs 
i ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 



BAKED CUSTARD 

Scald the milk. Beat the eggs slightly. 
Add the sugar, salt, and nutmeg, and beat 
the eggs again ; pour on the scalded milk, 
stirring the mixture while pouring in the 
milk. Strain the mixture into buttered 
custard cups. Put the cups into a pan of 
water in a moderate oven and let the 
custard cook until it is firm, or until a 
knife put into the center of the custard 
comes out clean, or, steam the custards in 
a steamer. 

SOFT CUSTARD 
Beat the eggs slightly, beating in the 
sugar and salt. Add the hot milk slowly, 
stirring the mixture all the while. Pour 
it into a double boiler and cook it, stirring 
it constantly until the custard coats the 
spoon (about ^ve minutes). Strain it at 
once, add the vanilla. Serve it cold. 

PLAIN OMELET 
Beat the yolks of the eggs until they are 
thick and creamy ; add the milk, salt, and 
pepper. Beat the whites until they are 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 FIRST YEAR 

2 tbs. milk or water stiff and dry. Cut and fold them into the 
1 tbs. butter yolks. (See note, p. 133, to cut and fold.) 

Put butter into clean, smooth omelet pan, 
and when the butter is bubbling, turn in 
the omelet. Let it cook slowly until it is 
light brown underneath. Put it on the oven 
grate to dry on top. When it is dry, slip a 
knife around the edge. Then fold it over 
and serve it at once on a hot platter. 



Digitized by 



Google 



6a6T6f;i cjjTs 



1 NECK 

2 CHUCK RIB 

3 PRIME RIB 

4 SIRI.OIN 

5 BACK OF RUMP 

6 MIDDLE OF RUMP 

7 FACE OF RUMP 

8 AITCH BONE 

9 ROUND 

10 VEIN 

11 HIND SH I N 

12 FL.ANK 

13 RATTLE RANO 

14 BRISKET 
16 FORE SHIN 



FROM LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



Digitized by 



Google 



• ••• •• •• • ••• 



TIP OF SIRUOIN 



MIDDUE CUT OF SIRUOIN 



^OM LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SECOND YEAR 

To the Teacher. — As a good beginning of a second year 
of study of Household Arts pupils should refresh their mem- 
ories of first-year lessons and renew their practice of first- 
year recipes. It is suggested therefore that the first four 
lessons of the second year be spent in such review lessons as 
the teacher may regard as most essential for her class. 

In these reviews pupils should follow the recipes unaided 
by the teacher, so far as possible. Credit should be given 
for the most successful results of independent efforts. 

The teacher is advised to have at least four first-year recipes 
cooked in each of these review lessons. 

As a means of securing additional review practice, pupils 
may be assigned simple recipes to be followed at home. 

Where practicable the teacher should see a sample of home 
cookery done by each girl. Interest and success are for- 
warded by asking girls to have their mothers and fathers 
state on a simple blank form of inquiry sent by the teacher, 
what degree of success was obtained in the home cookery. 

Another successful form of review is found in a competitive 
exhibition of the results of review cookery done by groups of 
girls unaided by the teacher. A small conunittee of judges 
selected from another cookery class, or from associate teachers, 
should test all the exhibited products and state the merits 
of each, and express an opinion as to which has been the most 
successful group of girls. 



77 



Digitized by 



Google 



78 SECOND YEAR 

Meat 

Meat is the flesh or muscle of animals used for food. 

It is made up of bundles of tube-shaped cells filled with 
juice. These tubes or fibers are boimd together by white 
connective tissue. This tissue is very tough, and the 
greater the amoimt of it in a piece of meat, the tougher the 
meat is. 

Composition of Meat. — Meat contains proteid in the form 
of myosin and albumin. It also contains fat, water, gelatin, 
mineral matter, and some other substances. 

Food Value. — The food value of meat depends on the pres- 
ence of two classes of nutrients, proteid and fat. Both of 
these yield muscular power and help to maintain the normal 
temperature of the body. White meat found in poultry 
has somewhat the same general composition, but differs from 
beef in nutritive value. 

Beef is the name given to the flesh of ox, steer, or cow. 
The best beef is obtained from a steer about five years old. 
Good beef is bright red, firm, and fine grained in texture, and 
is well marbled with fat. It has a thick, firm, yellow outside 
layer of fat. The best quality of beef has a large percentage 
of fat and a small percentage of water. The inside beef fat 
is white and crumbly. Beef is the most nutritious of meats ; 
it is considered to have the best flavor. Properly cooked, 
it is comparatively easy to digest. 

After being killed, beef should hang in cold storage for 
about three weeks to ripen and develop flavor. 

Mutton is the flesh of sheep. The best quality of mutton 
comes from a sheep three to four years old. Good mutton 
is a duller red in color than beef, and has a large quantity of 
hard, flakey white fat. Mutton is nutritious and ,eafiily 
digested. Mutton, like beef, must hang in order to ripen and 
develop flavor. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEAT 79 

Lamb is the flesh of a lamb. A lamb is a sheep less than 
one year old. Lamb is light pink in color. . 
Spring lamb is the flesh of a lamb 8 weeks to 3 months old. 
Lamb can be distinguished from mutton by the color of 
the flesh and by the serrated or sawlike bone at the joint in 
the leg ; in a leg of mutton the bone at the joint is smooth 
and rounded. 

Lamb is less nutritious than mutton. Lamb may be eaten 
soon after the animal is killed and dressed, but should be 
well cooked. 

Pork is the flesh of the pig. Strips of the back and sides 
of the pig, salted and smoked, are called bacon. The hind 
legs, salted and smoked, are called hams. Pork is difficult 
to digest on account of the large amount of fat which it 
contains. Bacon when cut in thin strips and cooked crisp is 
easily digested. 

Veal is the flesh of a calf. It is the least nutritious of all 
meats and is hard to digest. Good veal is of a pinkish color, 
fine grained, with firm and white fat. 

Cuts of Meat. — The methods of cutting sides of beef, 
mutton, etc., and the terms used for the different cuts vary 
in different sections of the country. 

Cuts of Beef. — The beef creature is first cut into halves 
along the length of the backbone ; each half or side weighs 
on the average about 450 pounds ; then each half is separated 
into the hind quarter and fore quarter. 
Boston markets cut the hind quarter into 
Sirloin 
Tip 1 

Middle which may be roasted or broiled. 
First Cut. 
and 
Tenderloin, which may be larded and roasted or sliced 
and broiled. 



Digitized by 



Google 



80 SECOND YEAR 



which may be roasted or broiled. 



Rump 

Back- 

Middle 

Face 
Round 

Top, which may be roasted or broiled. 

Bottom, which may be stewed or chopped for 
Hamburg steaks. 

Aitchbone, which may be stewed, braised, or roasted. 

Flank 

Thick 1 

T. I I which may be boiled, braised, or corned. 

Hind shin, soup stock and stews. 
Boston markets cut the fore quarter into : — 
Five Chuck Ribs, which may be roasted or broiled. 
Five Prime Ribs, which may be roasted. 
Neck, which may be stewed. 

Sticking Piece, which may be stewed or used for mince 
meat or corned. 

T» ±j.x which may be comed and boiled. 

Rattleran J 

Fore shin, soup stock and stews. 
The markets offer for sale other parts of the beef creature : 

Heart, which may be braised. 

Tail, which may be used for soup. 

Liver, which may be braised, fried, or sauted. 

Kidneys, which may be saut^, braised, or stewed. 

Brains, which may be stewed or scalloped. 

Tongue (fresh or comed), which may be boiled. 

Tripe (fresh or comed), which may be stewed, broiled, 
or fried. 

Suet, which may be tried out and the fat used for CQoking. 

New York markets cut the hind quarter into sirloin, rump, 

and roimd, which may be roasted or broiled ; bottom of round, 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEAT 81 

which may be chopped or stewed ; hind shin for stews or for 
soup stock ; and flank, which may be boiled, braised, or corned. 
New York markets cut the fore quarter into rib roast and 
chuck, which may be roasted or broiled ; plate, navel, cross 
ribs, brisket and clod for corning or chopping ; neck and fore 
shin for stews or for soup stock. 

LAMB^OR MUTTON 

Lamb and mutton are divided into halves, or sideSy by cut- 
ting the entire length of the backbone and then are sub- 
divi4cd into quarters. 
The hind quarter of lamb is divided into : — 

Leg, which may be roasted, braised, or boiled. 

Loin, which may be roasted in a piece, or broiled as chops. 

Saddle, which may be roasted. 
The fore quarter of lamb is divided into : — 

Shoulder, which may be boiled, steamed, or roasted. 

Neck, which may be stewed or braised. 

Care of Meat. — Meat is much affected by the care given 
it when it reaches the home. The wrappings should be 
removed as soon as it is delivered from the market, as they 
not only absorb some of the nutriment of the meat juices, 
but are likely to give an unpleasant taste to it. 

Meat should be kept in a cool place, but it should not be 
placed directly on the ice. 

Before cooking, meat should always be wiped thoroughly 
with a damp cheesecloth wrung out of fresh, cold water. 

Experiments. — 1. Scrape a small piece of lean, raw meat 
with a knife until only fiber is left and observe the fibers. 

2. Cut meat into small pieces, cover it with cold water, and 
watch the effect produced by the water on the meat. From 
this experiment you can learn why it is a mistake to wash meat 
m cold water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



82 SECOND YEAR 

3. Sprinkle a piece of meat with salt. Describe the result. 

4. Heat to 165° 1 ts. beef juice in a tube; observe the 
result. Compare the juice with white of egg cooked at the 
same temperature. 

5. Heat beef juice to 212**. What effect is produced by- 
getting beef juice boiling hot? By raising white of egg to a 
temperature of 212°? 

What likenesses or differences «an you find in the effects of 
heat on white of egg and on meat ? 

Cooking Meat. — Meat is cooked to improve the appear- 
ance and flavor, to kill germs, and to make the tissues more 
tender. 

Tender and Tough Meats. — The lean meat of the animal 
is muscle. If the muscles have had little exercise, the meat 
will be tender. This is one of the reasons why young meat is 
more tender than old. There is more juice to be found, how- 
ever, in muscles which have been very active. The loin and 
rump cuts taken from the back upper part of the creature 
make the choicest and tenderest cuts. Tender cuts may be 
cooked quickly and are suitable for broiling and roasting. 

Tough meat or tough cuts require long cooking and must 
be stewed, boiled, or braised. All tough cuts should be cooked 
slowly for a long time in a covered kettle, in order to soften 
the fibers and connective tissue so that they will become 
tender. Tough cuts of meat cooked properly are very nu- 
tritious as they have a really higher food value than tender 
cuts. 

Methods of Cooking Meat. — 1. Meat may be so cooked 
as to retain the juices. 

2. It may be so cooked as to extract the juices. 

3. Both methods may be combined. 

Cooking to retain Juices. — When broiled, roasted, baked, 
boiled, fried, or sauted, beef may retain practically all its 
juices. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEAT 83 

Only tender meats should be used for broiling, roasting, or 
baking. These processes are all accomphshed in dry air. 

Roasting used to be applied only to cooking done before 
an open jBre. But now when meat is cooked in the dry air of 
a hot oven it is said to be roasted. 

Broiling is done in three ways. First, over hot coals; 
second, broiling under the gas flame in a gas oven, and third, 
pan broiling. 

The secret of good broiling is to expose the meat to intense 
heat ; first sear the meat on both sides, then turn it frequently 
while cooking. 

Time Tables for Broiling and for Roasting 

Steaks 1 in. thick (rare) 6 to 8 m., (medium) 8 to 10 m. 

Steaks 1^ in. thick (rare) 8 to 12 m., (medium) 12 to 15 m. 

Mutton chops, 8 to 10 m. 

Spring chicken, 20 m. 

Small thin fish, 5 to 8 m. 

Fish in slices, 12 to 15 m. 

Bluefish and shad, 12 to 20 m. 

Sirloin or beef ribs, 10 to 12 m. per pound. 

Beef rump, 13 to 15 m. per pound. 

Beef round, 13 to 15 m. per pound. 

Mutton leg (done well), 15 m. per pound. 

Mutton loin (done well), 12 m. per pound. 

Mutton shoulder stuffed (done well), 15 m. per pound. 

Lamb, leg (done well), 48 to 20 m. per pound. 

Pork and veal, 25 to 30 m. per pound. 

Chicken, 15 m. per pound. 

Turkey, 10 lb., about 3 to 3^ hours. 

Cooking to extract Meat Juices. — Soups, broths, and stews 
are economical. For these forms of food the most inexpensive 
cuts may be used, because they can be so cooked as to sepa- 



Digitized by 



Google 



84 SECOND YEAR 

rate all the nutritious juices from the tough fiber, while the 
freed juices give a great deal of nutriment to the soup. In 
some cases the fibers can be cooked until tender. But in all 
cases cheap meats can be made to form the basis of 
savory and nutritious dishes prepared according to recij>es 
for extracting meat juices. Wholesome remnants of food, 
which would otherwise be lost, may be saved by using them 
in a soup. As only a very moderate fire is needed for cooking 
soups or stews, they may be prepared at less expense for fuel 
than roasts. 

Ingredients. — The following varied list of ingredients are 
used in meat soups : — 

(a) Raw meats : — 

1. Meat. 

2. Bones. 

3. Gristle. 

4. Trimmings. 
(6) Cooked meats : — 

1. Bones. 

2. Trimmings. 

3. Left-over portions of meat, 
(c) Vegetables : — 

1. Seasoning vegetables. 

2. Rice. 

3. Barley. 

4. Macaroni. 

5. Spaghetti. 

6. Vermicelli. 

7. Herbs for seasoning. 

8. Spices for seasoning. 

General Directions to be followed in Soup Making. 
(a) Always use cold water in making soups. 
(6) Bones should be cracked and meat should be cut into 
small pieces in order to allow juices to escape more easily. 



Digitized by 



Google 



UTS 



MIDDLE CUT OF RUMP 

FROM LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK Digitized by GOOglC 



SIDE OF BE*EF 



NECK 

CHUCK 

RIB ROAST 

LOIN 

RUMP 

ROUND 

BOTTOM OF ROUND 

HIND SHIN 

FLANK 

PLATE 

NAVEL 

CROSS RIBS 

BRISKET 

CLOD 

FORE SHIN 



FROM LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEAT 



85 



(c) Vegetables should be washed, scraped, or pared and cut 
into cubes. 

(d) Soup should be cooked very slowly and for a long time. 

(e) The soup kettle should be closely covered to keep in 
the savory odors, and to keep the kettle full of steam. 

Soup Stock. — Soup stock is the basis of all meat soups, 
and may be made from beef, mutton, lamb, veal, or poultry, 
or a combination of all three. It is the essential element of a 
meat soup, giving it flavor as well as nutritive value. It may 
be used, too, in meat gravies when a very rich gravy is desired, 
replacing the water called for in the recipe. 



RECIPE 98. 

4 lb. shin of beef 
4 qt. cold water 
12 cloves 
12 peppercorns 
2 sprigs parsley 
1 bunch sweet herbs 

(thyme 

savory 

marjoram 

bay leaf) 
1 small blade mace 
i c. carrot 
} c. tmmip cut in 
i c. celery [ cubes 
i c. onions 
2t8. salt 



SOUP STOCK 

Wipe the meat and the bones; cut the 
meat into small pieces; put the marrow, 
bones, meat, spices, herbs, vegetables, and 
cold water into a soup kettle. Soak them 
one hour before heating them. Cook them 
slowly about six hours, and strain. Put 
the soup stock in a cool place. 

When about to prepare soup for the meal, 
remove the fat from the soup stock, heat 
it to the boiling point, season it to taste, 
and add cooked vegetables, macaroni, or 
rice. 



RECIPE 99. 

2 lb. neck of mut- 
ton 

3 qt. cold water 
J c. pearl barley 



} c. carrot 
} c. turnip 
} c. celery 



cut into 

}-inoh 

dice 



SCOTCH BROTH 

Pick over barley and soak it in cold 
water over night; drain off the water. 
Wipe the meat, remove the skin and fat. 
Cut the meat from the bones into inch 
pieces. Put the bones on to boil in one 
quart of cold water and cook them slowly. 
Put the meat into the remaining two quarts 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 



SECOND YEAR 



2 tbs. chopped 
onion 

2 tbs. butter 

2 tbs. flour 

2 ts. salt 

i ts. white pepper 

1 tbs. chopped pars- 
ley (if liked) 



of water, let it soak two hours, then bring 
it quickly to the boiling point. Add the 
barley and simmer it two hours. Strain 
the bone water into the broth, add vege- 
tables, and cook them until they are tender. 
Make a thickening with butter and flour, 
add it to broth, and boil it five minutes 
longer. Add the seasoning. 



RECIPE 100. 

2 lb. mutton, fore 

quarter or neck 
1} qt. cold water 

1 small onion 

2 tbs. barley or rice 
1 ts. salt 

Spk. pepper 



MUTTON BROTH 

Wipe the meat, remove the fat and skin, 
and cut the meat into inch pieces. Put the 
bones and meat into cold water and let 
them stand one hour; add the onion, and 
the washed barley or rice, and cook the 
mixture slowly about three and a half hours. 
If water boils away during cooking, add 
boiling water. Remove the bones and 
meat, and add the seasoning. 



RECIPE loi. 

1 lb. beef Gower 
part of round) 

2 c. cold water 
Salt to season 



BEEF TEA 

Chop the meat fine and put it intb a 
large glass jar; add the water and let it 
stand one half hour. Cover the jar, place 
it on a stand or trivet in a kettle and sur- 
round it with cold water. Allow the water 
to heat slowly to about 155** F. (no higher) 
and keep it at this temperature at least 
two hours. Strain the liquid, remove the 
fat, let it cool, and add salt to taste. Re- 
heat the beef tea in the jar to 155° F. and 
serve it in heated cups. 



Stewing. — The purpose of stewing is to cook meat in 
such a way that all its nutriment may be utilized. 

Materials for a Stew. — Tough meats containing some fat 
and bone are best for this purpose. Vegetables are used chiefly 
to give flavor. Dumplings are often served with a stew. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEAT 



87 



Method of Stewing Meat. — A stew should be cooked on a 
part of the range where the water can be kept below the boil- 
mg point. 

The meat and vegetables should be just covered with water 
and cooked slowly for a long time. 

To accomplish the extracting of the meat juices for a stew 
the poorer meat and the bones are put into cold water. The 
best portions are browned in a hot frying pan, which helps to 
retain their juices. They are then added to the stew. 



RECIPE 102. 

2 lb. beef (cut into 

inch cubes) 
4 tbs. flour 
1 carrot 1 cut into i- 

1 turnip J inch dice 

2 medium onions 
sliced 

3 medium potatoes 
sliced 

Water 

Salt and pepper to 
season 



BEEF STEW 

Wipe the meat and cut the best portions 
into inch cubes. Put the bone and poorer 
portions of meat, cut fine, into cold water 
enough to cover them, and cook them 
slowly. Try out some pieces of beef fat 
in a frying pan and remove the scraps. 
Roll the best portions of meat in flour; 
put them into a frying pan and cook them 
until they are brown (stirring them with a 
knife so that all surfaces may be browned). 
Brown the onions also. Put the meat and 
onions into the kettle in which the stew is 
to be cooked ; rinse out the frying pan with 
hot water and turn the water into the stew. 
Cover the meat with boiling water and cook 
it slowly at least two hours or until the 
meat is tender. Remove the bone and 
poorer portions of meat, strain the liquid 
into stew, add the vegetables (excepting 
potatoes), and cook the stew about forty 
minutes longer. 

Parboil the potatoes for five minutes and 
add them to stew and cook it fifteen 
minutes. Add the seasoning. 

If the stew is not thick enough, add a 
little thickening of flour and water and boil 
it five minutes longer. 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 103. 

2 lb. lamb from 
shoulder 

3 c. boiling water 

2 small potatoes, 
washed, pared, 
and cut into i- 
inch cubes 

1 small onion 

(sliced) 

2 tbs. rice (washed) 
1 c. strained tomato 
Salt and pepper to 

taste 



LAMB STEW 

Wipe the meat and cut the best portions 
into two-inch pieces. 

Put the bone and poorer portions of 
meat into cold water, let them stand one 
half hour, then cook them slowly. 

Brown the onions golden brown in hot 
fat in a frying pan, then add the best por- 
tions of meat and brown them also. Put 
the onions and meat into a saucepan, cover 
them with boiling water, and let it simmer 
two hours. Add the washed rice when the 
meat has cooked one hour. Parboil the 
potatoes, add them to the stew and cook^it 
twenty minutes longer. Add the strained 
tomato ten minutes after the potatoes are 
put in. Add the seasoning. 

The tomato may be omitted, and boiling 
water used in its place. 



Cooking to retain Meat Juices. — In broiling, roasting, 
frying, and saut^ing, cooking is so done as to sear over at 
once the outside of the meat. This seals up the little tube- 
like cells, so that the meat juices cannot leak out. Since all 
the meat is to be eaten, and as these ways of cooking will not 
allow the meat to be long exposed to heat, only the choice and 
tender cuts can be used. Expensive cuts, then, quickly cooked 
by a hot fire are the essentials for successful broiling, roasting, 
and saut^ing. 



RECIPE 104. 



BROILED STEAK 

Wipe the meat and cut off any extra fat. 
Grease the broiler with a piece of meat 
fat, and place the meat in the broiler with 
the fat edge near the handle. 

Hold the broiler close to the coals and 
sear both sides of the meat. Then lift the 
broiler a little distance from the fire so as 
to avoid burning. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEAT 



89 



RECIPE 105. 



RECIPE 106. 



RECIPE 107. 



RECIPE 108. 



The meat should be turned every ten 
seconds for first three minutes, then occa- 
sionally until the meat is cooked. Place 
it on a hot platter and season it with salt, 
pepper, and butter, omitting butter if the 
meat is very fat. 

A steak about one and one half inches 
thick requires about twelve minutes for 
broiling. 

BROILED MEAT CAKES OR HAM- 
BURG STEAK 
Buy meat from lower part of the round. 
Chop it fine, and season it with salt, 
pepper, and onion juice. Form the meat 
into cakes about one inch thick. Broil them 
over the fire in a greased broiler, following 
directions of No. 104; or, the cakes may 
be pan broiled. 

PAN-BROILED CHOPS 

Heat a frying pan very hot. 

Wipe the chops and trim them. Put 
them into a hot frying pan and turn them 
every ten seconds for three minutes. Then 
cook them more slowly, turning them occa- 
sionally, until they are done. The average- 
sized chop requires about eight minutes. 

SAUTED PORK ICHOPS 

Pork chops should be about one half 
inch thick. Wipe them and cook in a hot 
frymg pan according to directions for pan- 
broiled chops. 

Pork chops require about twenty minutes 
for thorough cooking and may be baked in 
the oven for twenty minutes or broiled over 
a moderate fir^ 

VEAL CUTLETS 

Select slices of veal which are about 
one half inch thick, from the leg. Wipe 



Digitized by 



Google 



90 SECOND YEAR 

them, remove the skin and bone, and cut 
them into pieces suitable for serving. 
Sprinkle them with salt and pepper. Dip 
them into crumbs, eggj etc., according to 
No. 109. Cook them in oil or pork fat until 
they. are brown. Put the cutlets into a 
stewpan and pour over them just enough 
brown sauce to cover. Cover the stewpan 
and let them cook slowly until the meat is 
te^ider. 

Take out any poor or stringy pieces and 
put them into cold water to cook and use 
the liquor for sauce. 

RECIPE Z09. LIVER AND BACON 

Remove the rind and cut the bacon into 
very thin slices. 

Cut the liver into slices one third of an 
inch thick. Dip each slice into boiling 
water, and remove the skin and veins, wipe 
the slices dry, and sprinkle them with salt 
and pepper. 

Cook the bacon in a hot frying pan, or 
in a pan in the oven, until it is crisp. 
When it is done, place it in a dish and keep 
it hot. 

Cook the liver in hot bacon fat, turning the 
slices occasionally until they are brown on 
^ both sides. Avoid cooking the liver too 

much. Place it on a dish with the bacon, 
arranging the liver in the center and the 
bacon about the edge. 

Make a gravy according to No. 116 and 
pour it over the liver. 

Roasting retains the juice of the meat and develops a 
special flavor. This form of cooking is suitable only for 
tender meats. 

Wipe the meat ; trim and skewer it into shape ; all meat for 
baking or roasting should be dredged all over with flour and 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEAT 



91 



salt just before placing it in the oven. Place the roast on a 
rack in a baking pan. 

Have the oven very hot and keep it so until the surface of 
the meat is seared. Then reduce the temperature and cook 
more slowly according to directions in the time table for 
roasting. Baste the meat every quarter of an hour. 



RECIPE no. 

3 lb. beef from the 

round 
i e. salt pork cut 

into J-inch cubes 
1 small carrot sliced 

1 small turnip sliced 

2 small onions sliced 
1 doz. peppercorns 
Flour, salt, and 

pepper 
Water to cover 

RECIPE III. 



RECIPE 112. 



BRAISED BEEF 

Wipe meat and dredge with flour. Cook 
the pork cubes in a kettle until they are 
brown, and then remove the scraps. Put 
the meat into the hot fat and brown all the 
surfaces. Add peppercorns, vegetables, 
and seasoning, and boiling water enough to 
cover the beef. Cover the pan and cook 
the meat in a moderate oven about four 
hours. Baste the meat frequently. Thicken 
the liquid, season it to taste, and serve it 
with the meat. 

MEAT LOAF 

Remove the skin, gristle, and bone from 
two pounds beef (lower part of the round) 
and chop the meat fine. Measure the meat 
and allow an equal quantity of bread 
crumbs; mix the two and add seasoning 
to taste. Moisten the mixture with soup 
stock, milk, or water. Add one beaten egg 
for each pint of the mixture. Pack it into 
a buttered brick-loaf pan, place the pan 
in a pan of hot water, put it into the oven 
and cook it until the loaf is firm in the 
center. Turn it out on a hot platter and 
serve it with tomato sauce or white sauce. 

BOILED FRESH MEAT 

Wipe the meat and remove any extra 
fat. Put the meat into a large saucepan 
on the stove. The pan must contain 



Digitized by 



Google 



92 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 113. 



RECIPE 114. 
5 lb. corned beef 

1 small cabbage 

2 turnips 

2 carrots (if liked) 

4 beets 

8 medium potatoes 



enough boiling water to cover the meat 
entirely. Cover the saucepan and allow the 
water to boil for ten minutes. Lower the 
temperature, placing the saucepan on a part 
of the range where the water will simmer^ 
until the meat is tender. 

Allow about fifteen minutes for each 
pound of meat after the temperature is 
lowered. 

BOILED SALT OR SMOKED MEATS 
Hams should be soaked in cold water 
overnight before cooking. All salt or 
smoked meat should have its fat scraped, 
and the meat itself should be washed in 
cold water. 

Then place the meat in a large saucepan 
and cover it with cold water. Heat it 
slowly to the boiling point, boil it eight 
minutes, then cook it slowly until it is 
tender. 

The average time for salt meat is thirty 
minutes to a pound, and it is well to allow 
it to stand in the water in which it is 
cooked until it is nearly cool. 

BOILED DINNER 

Wipe the meat thoroughly, put it into 
kettle, cover it with cold water, and let it 
come to the boiling point. Then let it 
simmer about two and one half hours, or 
until it is tender. Prepare the vegetables ; 
cut the cabbage into quarters ; slice turnips 
and carrots into half inch slices. An hour 
and a half before dinner time skim oft the 
fat from the liquid, add the oabbag^e, 
turnip, and carrots, and an hour later add 
the potatoes. Cook the beets separately. 
When the vegetables are tender, remove 
them carefully and drain off the water 
from the cabbage by pressing it in a col- 



Digitized by 



Google 



PLATE E 



RUMP OF BEEF 



l-OIN OF BEEF 



FROM LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PLATE F 



• • • • »• • / k •«• , t ,. 



-ROM LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



FOREOUARTER OF LAMB 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MEAT 



93 



lander. Slice the beets, and cover the 
slices with vinegar. 

If the beef is very salt, soak it in cold 
water one hour before cooking. 

Sauces or Gravies for Roasts and Boiled Meats 



RECIPE 115. 



RECIPE 116. 



GRAVY, FOR ROAST BEEF, ROAST 
MUTTON, OR LAMB 

When a meat roast is baking, some of 
the juice and fat collects in the roasting 
pan. To make use of these nutritious sub- 
stances which are of excellent flavor, house- 
keepers add milk or water and flour to 
dilute them somewhat and prepare various 
sauces or gravies. When a roast is not 
over fat, the plain pan gravy slightly di- 
luted makes an excellent sauce. When 
roasts are very fat, an overrich gravy may 
be avoided by letting the pan gravy cool 
until some of the fat can be removed from 
the top. 

ROAST BEEF GRAVY 

Pour all but 4 tbs. of fat from the pan in 
which meat was roasted. Put the pan over 
the fire, add slowly 4 tbs. flour, mixing it 
with the fat, and stir it until the mixture is 
well browned and smooth. Add gradually 
2 c. boiling water, pressing out the lumps 
and boil it five minutes, stirring it con- 
stantly ; strain it and season it to taste. 



RECIPE 117. 
2 tbs. butter 
4 tbs. flour 
2 0. boiling liquid in 

which meat was cooked 
Pew drops onion juice 
2 tbs. capers 
i ts. salt 
Few grains cayenne 



CAPER SAUCE FOR BOILED MUTTON 
Make this sauce according to No. 25, 
then add the capers and serve it very hot. 



Digitized by 



Google 



94 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE ii8. 

1 small bunch mint 
1 tbs. powdered 

sugar 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
} c. vinegar 

RECIPE 119. 



RECIPE 120. 

1 tbs. butter 

2 tbs. flour 

1 c. water or stock 
1 c. stewed tomato 
} ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 
1 ts. Worcestershire 
sauce 

RECIPE 121. 

} can tomato 

1 slice onion 
} ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

2 tbs. butter 
2 tbs. flour 



MINT SAUCE 
Wash the mint thoroughly, remove the 
leaves, and chop them fine ; add the sugar, 
lemon juice, and vinegar ; let it stand one 
half hour on the back of the range. Serve it 
hot or cold. 

GIBLET GRAVY FOR ROAST TURKEY, 
ETC. 

Clean and cook the giblets (liver, heart, 
and gizzard) until they are tender and chop 
them fine. Save the water in which the 
giblets were cooked. Pour off the liquid 
in the pan in which the turkey was roasted, 
and skim off about 6 tbs. fat; return the 
fat to the roasting pan, add 6 tbs. flour and 
stir it until the flour is well browned ; add 
slowly the giblet water and enough boiling 
water to make the consistency of medium 
white sauce, being careful to press out all 
lumps. Boil it five minutes, stirring it 
constantly ; strain it and add seasoning. 
Add the chopped giblets and serve it very 
hot. 

BROWN SAUCE 

Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir it 
until it is browned. Add gradually the 
water or stock, pressing out all lumps ; add 
the tomato and seasoning. 



TOMATO SAUCE 
Stew the tomato and onion for fifteen 
minutes; rub them through a strainer. 
Use the butter, flour, and 1 c. of strained 
tomato according to No. 25. Add the 
strained tomato to the sauce and boil it 
five minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEAT 95 

Poultry 

The name " poultry " is given the flesh of domestic birds. 

Birds of all kinds are best when young. In selecting a 
chicken, choose one having soft cartilage at the end of the 
breastbone. Smooth skin, soft feet, and an abundance of 
pinfeathers are three other indications that the bird is young 
and tender. , 

In selecting a turkey, choose a short, plump bird having 
smooth, dark legs, and a soft gristly cartilage at the end of the 
breastbone. A cock turkey is better than a hen turkey unless 
the hen turkey is young, small, and plump. / 

All fowls are best if short and plump, with smooth legs and 
short blimt spurs. The black-legged ones are likely to be the 
more juicy. 

Cleaning Poultry. — Cut off the head and the feet and re- 
move any pin feathers without breaking the skin. Turn 
down the skin of the neck and cut off the neck close to the 
body ; pull out the windpipe and the crop. Make an inci- 
sion below the breastbone. Insert the hand slowly and 
firmly between the entrails and the wall of the body of the 
bird, then draw them out, being careful not to break the 
gall bladder. Lay them on the board; detach the heart 
and the gizzard. Split the gizzard to the lining and peel off 
the flesh without breaking the lining. Trim the heart. Care- 
fully remove the gall bladder from the liver. Cut out the oil 
bag from the tail. Singe the bird by holding it over burning 
paper. Wash it thoroughly inside and outside. Dry it well 
and prepare it for roasting, broiling, etc. 

RECIPE 122. ROAST CHICKEN 

, Remove any pin feathers and clean, 

singe, stuff, and truss the chicken. Place 
it on its back and rub the entire surface 
with 1 ts. salt, 3 tbs. butter, and 3 tbs. flour 
which have been creamed together. Put 



Digitized by 



Google 



96 



SECOND YEAR 



the chicken into a hot oven and bake it 
until it is brown, then reduce the tempera- 
ture ; baste it every ten minutes until it is 
cooked. When the meat is tender, the 
chicken is done. A 4-lb. chicken takes 
from li hr. to li hr. for cooking. 
For basting use 3 tbs. salt pork fat, or butter mixed with 1 c. 

boiling water. When this is used up, baste with the liquid in the 

pan. 



RECIPE 123. 
2 c. stale-bread 

crumbs, or 
1 c. cracker crumbs 
1 ts. sage or poultry 

seasoning 

1 ts. chopped onion 

(if liked) 

2 tbs. butter 

) c. boiling water 
1 ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

RECIPE 124. 



STUFFING FOR CHICKEN 
Mix the crumbs, seasoning, and onion. 



Mix the water and butter, 
mixture over the crumbs. 



Pour the water 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Clean, wash, and singe the chicken ; cut 
it into pieces suggested by the joints of the 
bird. Sprinkle the pieces with salt and 
pepper, dredge them with flour, and cook 
them in hot salt pork fat until they are 
golden brown. Then put them into a stew 
pan, cover them with boiling water and 
cook them until the meat is tender. Make 
a brown sauce by melting 2 tbs. butter 
and adding to it 2 tbs. flour, stirring until 
the mixture is brown. Add enough of the 
broth in which the meat was cooked to 
make it the consistency of medium white 
sauce. 

Veal may be used instead of chicken in 
this recipe, selecting meat from breast or 
neck. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MEAT 97 

Wanned-over Meats. — It is important for every girl 
old enough to cook, to learn to prepare nutritious, tempting, 
appetizing dishes from left-over pieces of meat and fish. 
Meat is very expensive unless every particle of nutriment is 
made use of. No bit of meat should be thrown away. 

Preparation. — Different kinds of meat may be combined in 
making warmed-over dishes. First remove all skin, extra fat, 
gristle, and bone. Then select one of the following recipes, 
and you will have a second serving different from the first, 
but equally nutritious. If hash and croquettes are to be made, 
the meat should be finely chopped. For other dishes it may 
be cut into small, thin pieces. Water in which meat has been 
cooked should always be saved, as it, as well as soup stock, 
gravy, or sauces, may be used to flavor, moisten, and enrich 
dishes made from left overs. 

RECIPE 125. BROWNED HASH 

2 c. cold roast beef Mix all the ingredients thoroughly. Put 

(chopped fine), or into a frying pan 2 tbs. of beef fat or butter, 

2 c. cold corned beef and 2 tbs. boiling water. Spread the meat 

(chopped fine) mixture in the frying pan. 

2 c. mashed potato Cook it without stirring it, over a moder- 

2 tbs. boiling water, ate fire for about thirty minutes. When 

or enough to it is browned underneath, fold it over like 

moisten an omelet and place it on a hot platter. 

A few drops of onion 
juice 

Salt and pepper to taste 

RECIPE 126. COTTAGE PIE 

Butter a baking dish, put on a thin layer 
of mashed potato, add a thick layer of cold 
roast beef, cut in thin pieces, sprinkle it with 
salt and pepper ; moisten it with meat gravy. 
Put a thin layer of mashed or riced potato 
on top, cover it, and bake it in a hot 
oven long enough to heat it through ; then 
remove the cover and brown the potato. 



Digitized by 



Google 



98 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 127. 



RECIPE 128. 



RECIPE 129. 



RECIPE 130. 

2 c. cooked meat cut 
into small pieces 

2 c. cooked maca- 
roni, rice, or bread 
crumbs 

1 c. tomato sauce 

i c. buttered crumbs 



RECIPE 131. 

2 c. chopped meat 
i ts. salt 



ROAST MEAT WARMED IN GRAVY 

Cut the meat into thin slices. Heat the 
gravy to boiling point ; add the meat, and 
cook it just long enough to heat it thor- 
oughly. Season it to taste and serve it at 
once. 

DRIED BEEF WITH WHITE SAUCE 

Make medium white sauce according to 
No. 25. Remove the skin from the meat 
and separate the meat into pieces ; cover it 
with cold water, let it stand about ten 
minutes, then drain it. Add the beef to 
the sauce and cook it just long enough to 
heat the meat. Season it and serve it. 

One quarter pound of dried beef is used 
to 1 c. of white sauce. 

MINCED LAMB ON TOAST 
Toast small slices of bread and place 
them where they will keep hot. Remove 
the skin and ' gristle from the lamb, and 
chop the meat. Add enough gravy or 
stock to moisten the chopped meat. 
Season it with salt, pepper, and celery salt. 
Heat it thoroughly and place it on the 
slices of toast. Arrange them on a platter. 

SCALLOPED MUTTON OR LAMB 

Butter a baking dish. Put a layer of 
macaroni, rice, or bread crumbs in the dish, 
then a layer of meat sprinkled with salt, 
pepper, and tomato sauce ; repeat, and put 
buttered crumbs on top. Bake it in a hot 
oven about thirty minutes or until it is thor- 
oughly heated through. Cover it for first 
twenty minutes, then remove the cover and 
allow the crumbs to brown. 

MEAT CROQUETTES 
To the chopped cold meat add the season- 
ing and yolk of egg, and enough of the 



Digitized by 



Google 



GELATDT 99 

Spk. pepper thick white sauce to moisten it. Cool the 

Few grains cayenne mixture and shape it. Dip the shapes into 

Few drops onion egg and crumbs and fry them in deep fat, as 

juice directed on page 115. 

Yolk 1 egg The general rule for meat or fish cro- 

} to 1 c. thick white quettes is 2 parts of chopped meat or fish 

sauce to 1 part of thick white sauce. 

Gelatin 

A Protei<|B\ — Gelatin is classed with protein foods. It is 
found in the bones, skin, tendons, connective tissues, etc., of 
animals. Especially large quantities are found in the con- 
nective tissues of young animals. It is obtained by boiling the 
parts containing it in water for a long time. The purest 
form of gelatin, isinglass, is obtained from the swinmiing 
bladder of the sturgeon and other fish. Calves' feet also fur- 
nish a good quality of isinglass. 

Gelatin is transparent and tasteless. It is prepared for 
market either in sheets or in granulated form. 

Three Important Facts about Gelatin. — Gelatin does not 
dissolve in cold water ; cold water only softens and swells it. 
But it does dissolve in boiling water. And third, it stiffens 
when put in a cold place. 

General Directions for making Jellies with Gelatin. — 
Granulated gelatin requires the shortest time for preparing. 

One ounce of gelatin should stiffen one quart of liquid. 

When about to use gelatin in any recipe calling for its use, 
observe these five directions in the order given below : — 

1. Soak the gelatin in cold water to soften it. 

2. Add boiling water and sugar and stir it imtil it is dis- 
solved. 

3. Add flavoring or fruit juice. 

4. Strain it through a wet cheesecloth or fine strainer into 
a cold, wet mold. 

5. Set it into a pan of ice water to stiffen. 



Digitized by 



Google 



100 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 132. 

1} tbs. gran, gelatin 

J c. cold water 

li c. boiling water 

i c. sugar 

Spk. salt 

i c. lemon juice 

RECIPE 133. 

2 tbs. granulated 

gelatin 
i c. cold water 
lie. boiling water 
i c. sugar 
Spk. salt 
i c. orange juice 
2 tbs. lemon juice 



LEMON JELLY 
Make the jelly according to the directions 
on page 99. 



ORANGE JELLY 

Make the jelly according to the directions 
on page 99. 



RECIPE 134. COFFEE JELLY 

2 tbs. granulated Make the jelly according to the directions 
gelatin on page 99. Serve it with whipi)ed cream 

J c. cold water or with plain cream. 

2i c. boiling hot coffee 
i c. sugar 
Spk. salt 



RECIPE 135. 



RECIPE 136. 

IJ tbs. granulated 

gelatin 
i c. cold water 
1 oz. grated choco- 



SNOW PUDDING 

Use No. 132. Beat the white of three 
eggs until it is stiff and dry, and when the 
jelly begins to thicken, add the beaten white. 
Beat it until the jelly is stiff and nearly 
firm, then pour it into a cold, wet mold or 
into wet custard cups. 

Serve it with soft custard (No. 96) made 
from the yolks of the eggs. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM 

Soak the gelatin in cold water ; melt the 
chocolate over boiling water; heat the 
cream until it is scalding hot and pour it 
over the melted chocolate. Add the sugar 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH : : - -^ 101 

late and the hot cream mixture to the gelatin 

i c. sugar and stir it xmtil it is dissolved and the 

li 0. cream or rich mixture is smooth. Add the vanilla, and 

milk pour it into a cold, wet mold. Serve it 

10 drops vanilla with whipped cream. 

Fish 

General Composition. — Fish is composed of proteid, gela- 
tin, fat, extractives, mineral matter, and water. 

Food Value. — In food value and digestibility fish is 
similar to lean meat. As it is cheaper than meat, and is a 
good substitute, it may be used to aid in the economical 
management of household expenses. 

Fish is divided into two classes, — fish proper and shellfish. 
Fish proper are those that have a backbone ; they are again 
divided into two classes: — 

(a) Oily fish, having fat throughout the entire body, and 
having dark flesh; salmon, mackerel, bluefish, shad, eels, 
herring, belong to this class. 

(6) White fish, having white flesh and oil found only in the 
liver ; haddock, cod, halibut, flounder, trout, smelts, belong 
to this class. 

Shellfish have no backbone ; they include lobsters, oysters, 
clams, scallops, and mussels. 

Selection of Fish. — It is even more important to select 
fish well than it is to select meat well. Fresh fish has full 
clear eyes, bright red gills, and firm flesh. It should always 
be eaten as soon as possible after it is caught. Left-over fish 
should not be allowed to stand long. 

Preparation for Cooking. — Fish are generally cleaned and 
dressed at the market, but they should be wiped thoroughly 
inside and out with a cloth wrung out of cold salt water, and 
then dried with a clean towel kept for that purpose. Head 
and tail may or may not be removed. 



Digitized by 



Google 



102.. . . SECX)ND YEAR 

A : \'' \ -'. ': •:.•:• .- 

The skinning of fish should be done in this way. With a 
sharp knife remove the fins along the back and cut off a 
narrow strip of skin the entire length. Loosen the skin on 
one side, and if the fish is fresh, it may be readily drawn off, 
stripping toward the tail. After removing the skin from one 
side turn fish over and skin the opposite side. 

Boning the fish should be carefully done. Clean and strip 
off the skin ; lay the fish flat on a board ; run a sharp knife 
imder the flesh near the bone, beginning at the tail and 
cutting it away from the bone, being careful not to break the 
fish. When the flesh on one side is taken off, remove the flesh 
from the other side in the same way. Pull out all small bones. 

Methods of Cooking. — The methods of cooking fish are 
similar to those of cooking meat. As fish contains albumin, 
cold and boiling water have the same effect on it as on meat. 
Repeat the meat experiments which show these effects, and 
see whether they are shown any more clearly with the flesh 
of fish than with that of beef. 

Fish may be steamed, broiled, boiled, fried, or sauted. 

Fish suitable for Different Ways of Cooking. — For bak- 
ing whole, haddock, cod, bluefish, shad, whitefish, and small 
salmon are suitable. 

For broiling, split bluefish, mackerel, shad, trout, young 
cod, and whitefish are suitable. 

For broiling whole, smelts, perch, and other small fish 
may be used. 

For boiling whole, small cod, haddock, bluefish, or thick 
pieces of halibut or salmon are good. 

For frying or saut^ing sliced haddock, cod, sword fish, and 
fillets of halibut and of flounders are good. Smelts are 
usually fried or sauted whole. 

RECIPE 137. BOILING FISH 

Wipe the fish thoroughly outside and 
inside and remove the head and tail. Put 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 



103 



it into a wire basket or on a plate, and tie 
the plate in cheesecloth so that the cloth, 
plate, and fish may be lifted together. 
Plunge the fish into boiling, salted water, or 
into boiling water to which J c. of vinegar 
has been added. Allow it to boil five min- 
utes; then simmer it until it is done. 

The time for cooking varies according 
to size and thickness of fish. It should be 
cooked eight to ten minutes for each pound, 
or until the flesh separates from the bone. 

RECIPE 138. BROILING FISH 

Qrease a wire broiler with pork rind. 
Wipe the fish dry and sprinkle it with salt 
and pepper, and if it is not oily, rub it with 
melted butter. Broil as in No. 104, p. 88; 
Broil split fish with the fiesh side near the 
fire until it is browned ; then broil the other 
side until the skin is crisp. When it is 
cooked, loosen both sides of the flesh care- 
fully from broiler and slip it off on a hot 
platter. Sprinkle it with salt and pepper, 
and butter if desired. 

RECIPE 139. BAKING FISH WHOLE 

Clean and wipe the fish outside and inside 
and dry it thoroughly. Stuff (No. 143) 
the fish and sew it together. Cut gashes 
about three inches apart and insert a slice 
of salt pork (never substitute bacon) in 
each gash. Sprinkle it with salt and pepper. 
If the fish is not oily, rub it with melted 
butter. Dredge it with flour. Tie the 
fish to shape it like the letter S, and place 
it on a greased tin sheet and put it into a 
pan. Bake it until the flesh separates easily 
from the bone, allowing from twelve to 
fifteen minutes per pound of fish. Baste 
it every ten minutes while cooking, and 
when it is done, remove it to a hot platter, 



Digitized by 



Goode 



104 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 140. 



RECIPE 14Z. 



RECIPE 142. 

3 lb. haddock or cod 
6 c. cold water 

2 slices salt pork 

2 small onions 
sliced 

4 medium potatoes 

(washed, pared, 
and sliced) 

3 c. hot milk 
3 tbs. butter 

Salt and pepper to 

taste 
crackers 



take out the strings, and serve it with any 
fish sauce. 

FRYING SMALL FISH 

Clean, wash, and dry the fish, and sprinkle 
them with salt, pepper, and flour ; dip them 
into beaten egg, drain them, and dip them 
into meal or sifted bread crumbs. Fry 
them in deep, hot fat according to page 114. 
When they are done, drain them and serve 
them on a hot platter. 

SAUTE OF COD OR HADDOCK 

Wash and dry the fish, and cut it into 
pieces of convenient size, sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper, and dip them into granu- 
lated com meal. 

Try out slices of salt pork in a frying pan, 
remove the scraps, and cook the fish until 
it is well browned on both sides and the 
flesh is thoroughly done. The time will 
vary according to the thickness of the slice. 

FISH CHOWDER 

Clean and wipe the fish ; remove the head, 
skin, and bones, and put them into cold 
water. Cook them slowly. Parboil the 
potatoes for ^ve minutes. Put the pork 
into a saucepan in which the chowder is to 
be made, cook it until it is light brown, and 
then remove it. Brown the onion in the 
hot fat ; drain the potatoes and add them 
to onions. Strain the water from the 
bones over the onions and potatoes and boil 
them fifteen minutes. Cut the fish into 
small pieces ; add them to the chowder and 
cook it ten minutes. Add the butter, sea- 
soning, and milk. Heat it to the boiling 
point, and when ready to serve it, add 
crackers. If it is not thick enough, add a 
thickening of fiour and water. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 



105 



RECIPE 143. 

1 c. cracker crumbs, 
or dried bread 
crumbs 

2 tbs. butter 

1 tbs. chopped pickle 
1 ts. chopped parsley 
1 ts. chopped onion 
i ts. salt 
J ts. pepper 
About i c. hot milk or 

water, or enough to 

moisten 

RECIPE 144. 

1 c. cracker crumbs 

4 tbs. melted butter 

) ts. salt 

J ts. pepper 

1 ts. each capers, 

pickles, onions, 

chopped fine 

RECIPE 145. 

1 c. cracker crumbs 
4 tbs. melted butter 
1 ts. lemon juice 
1 ts. chopped parsley 
} ts. salt 
J ts. i)epper 

1 c. oysters 

RECIPE 146. 

4 tbs. butter 

2 tbs. floiur 
1 c. boiling water 
i ts. salt 
J ts. pepper 



STUFFING FOR FISH. I 

Melt the butter, add the other ingredients, 
and stir them with a fork until all are thor- 
oughly mixed. 



STUFFING FOR FISH. H 

Mix ingredients in the order given, 
makes a dry, crumbly stuf&ng. 



This 



OYSTER STUFFING 

Clean the oysters and remove the tough 
muscles. Add the seasoning and melted 
butter to the cracker crumbs, mix them 
well with a fork, and add the oysters and 
enough of the oyster liquor to moisten the 
crumbs. 



DRAWN BUTTER 

Melt 2 tbs. of butter, add the flour and 
seasoning, and press out any lumps. Add 
the boiling water gradually and stir the 
mixture constantly to make it smooth. 
Boil it five minutes, and add the remaining 
butter. in small pieces. Serve it with boiled 
or baked fish. 



_ Digitized by 



Google 



106 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE Z47. 



RECIPE 148. 


i c. mayonnaise 


dressing 


1 ts. parsley (washed 


and chopped) 


1 ts. chopped pickle 


1 ts. chopped olives 


RECIPE 149. 


1 tbs. lemon juice 


1 ts. vinegar 


1 tbs. Worcester- 


shire sauce 


i ts. salt 


4 tbs. butter 



EGG SAUCE 

To dravm butter add two hard-oooked 
eggs, chopped or cut into quarter-inch slices. 
Serve it with boiled fish. 

TARTAR SAUCE. I 

Mix the parsley, pickle, and olives, and 
add them to the mayonnaise dressing. 



TARTAR SAUCE. H 

Heat the lemon juice, vinegar, Worcester- 
shire sauce, and salt in a small enamel pan 
over hot water. Brown the butter in a 
saucepan and strain it into the first mixture. 

White sauces (Nos. 24, 25) may be used 
with fish. 



WARMING OVER FISH 
RECIPE 150. CREAMED FISH 

Remove the bones and skin from any 
white cooked fish. Heat the fish in me- 
dium white sauce (No. 25), using twice as 
much fish as sauce. 

RECIPE 151. CREAMED CODFISH 

Flake salt codfish into small pieces and 
remove the bones. Soak it in cold water 
for several hours. Drain it, put it into a 
saucepan, add cold water enough to cover 
it, and simmer it until it is tender. Pour 
off the water, add medium white sauce 
(No. 25), using twice as much sauce as fish. 
Heat it to the boiling point and add 
soning. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 



107 



RECIPE 152. 



REQJPE 153. 



RECIPE 154. 



RECIPE 155. 

1} c. cold flaked sal-. 

mon or halibut 

} c. (about) 
Thick white sauce 

(No. 26) 
Salt and pepper to 



RECIPE 156. 

1 c. salt codflsh 

2 c. potatoes 

1 egg 

2 ts. butter 

i ts. white pepper 
Salt if needed 



SCALLOPED FISH. I 

Put creamed flsh into a buttered baking 
dish and cover it with buttered cracker or 
bread crumbs. Cook it in the oven until 
the mixture is heated through and the 
crumbs are brown. 

SCALLOPED FISH. II 

Remove all skin and bones from the fish. 
Use equal parts of cooked fish, tomato 
sauce (No. 12), or mediimi white sauce 
(No. 25), and one half as much bread 
crumbs. Put the layers alternately into a 
buttered baking dish, with buttered crumbs 
on top. 

Bake the mixture until it is heated through 
and the crumbs are brown. 

FISH HASH 

Use equal parts of cold cooked fish and 
mashed potato, mix them well, and add 
seasoning to taste. Fry salt pork, remove 
the scraps, and cook the hash in a frjdng pan, 
according to No. 125. Fold it over and 
serve it on a hot platter. 

FISH CROQUETTES 

Mix the fish and white sauce and add 
seasoning. Spread the mixture on a plate 
to cool. When it is cool, shape it, roll it 
in crumbs, etc., according to No. 131. Fry 
the croquettes in deep fat and drain them. 
Serve them on a hot dish surrounded with 
white sauce, garnished with chopped parsley. 

FISH BALLS 

Shred the fish into half-inch pieces and 
wash it in cold water. Wash and pare 
the potatoes, and cut them into quarters. 
Cook the fish and potatoes together for 
about twenty-five minutes until the pota- 
toes are tender. Drain and dry the mixture 



Digitized by 



Googk, 



108 SECOND YEAR 

thoroughly,, mash it well, and add the 
butter, seasoning, and beaten egg. Beat it 
until it is light, form balls on a tablespoon, 
and drop them into smoking hot fat as 
directed on page 114. Fry xmtil brown, then 
drain. 

Shellfish. — The principal shellfish used for food in this 
country are oysters, 4clams, lobsters, scallops, shrimps, crabs, 
and mussels. 

Oysters. — While oysters are not high in food value, they 
possess a delicate and peculiar flavor which make them 
prized raw. By many people oysters are easily digested 
except when fried. 

The soft part of the oyster is made up largely of the 
stomach and liver and may be cooked in a variety of ways, 
such as broiling, roasting, stewing, frying, etc. 

They are in season from September to May, but should be 
avoided in hot weather, because they are not so good then 
and are likely to be flabby and of poor flavor. 

Bliie Points are small oysters which take their name 
from Blue Point, Long Island, where they were originally 
found. 

Clams are similar to oysters in composition, and the same 
general rules are followed in cooking. 

There are two varieties, the soft-shell and the hard-shell 
clams. 

Soft-shell clams are used largely in New England. The 
small hard-shell clams, known as Little Neck clams, are often 
served raw. 

Cleaning Oysters or Clams. — Place a strainer over a bowl. 
Pour one half cup of water over one pint of oysters or clanas ; 
then take them out separately and remove any bits of shell. 
Put them into a strainer to drain. The liquor may be 
strained and used. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 



109 



RECIPE ZS7. 
1 pt. oysters 
J c. oyster liquor 
1 c. cracker crumbs 
6 tbs. melted butter 
i ts. salt 
i ts. pepper 



RECIPE 158. 
2 c. milk 

1 c. oyster liquor 

2 c. oysters 

1 tbs. butter 

J ts. white pepper 

Salt to taste 

RECIPE 159. 



RECIPE z6o. 



RECIPE 161. 
2 c. oysters 
2 c. milk 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Clean the oysters and sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper. Pour the melted butter 
over the crumbs and stir them with a fork 
until the crumbs are well coated. Butter a 
baking dish, put in a thin layer of crumbs, 
then one half of the oysters, another thin 
layer of crumbs, then the remainder of the 
oysters with the oyster liquor; put the 
remaining crumbs on the top. Bake the 
mixture thirty minutes, or until juice bubbles 
up around the sides of the dish and the 
crumbs are brown. 

OYSTER STEW 
Clean the oysters and scald the milk. 
Heat and strain the oyster liquor. Add 
the oysters and cook them until the edges 
curl. Add the hot milk, butter, and sea- 
soning and serve the stew at once. The 
stew may be thickened according to No. 24. 

PAN-BROILED OYSTERS 
Toast thin slices of stale bread and keep 
them hot. Clean oysters and wipe them 
dry. Put them into a saucepan without 
water, shaking the saucepan until the oys- 
ters are plump and the edges begin to curl. 
Season them with butter, salt, and pepper, 
and serve them at once on the toast. 

FRIED OYSTERS 
Clean large oysters, dry them thoroughly, 
and season them with salt and pepper. 
Prepare them according to directions for 
crumbing and egging food for fr3dng (p. 115), 
and fry them in very hot deep fat. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

Make medium white sauce (No. 25). 
Wash 2 c. oysters, add them to the sauce. 



Digitized by 



Google 



110 



SECOND YEAR 



4 tbs. butter and cook them until they are plump and the 

4 tbs. flour edges curl, which will be about five minutes, 

i ts. salt Serve them on toast, and garnish them with 

Spk. pepper points of toast. 

RECIPE i63. STEAMED CLAMS 

Clams for steaming should be alive and 
bought in their shells. Wash them thor- 
oughly, changing the water several times. 
Put one half cup of boiling water into a 
large kettle, add the clams, cover them tight, 
and steam them imtil shells partially open. 
Serve each person with steamed clams and 
a small dish of melted butter. 

CLAM CHOWDER 
Clean the clams and separate the hard 
and soft parts, chopping the hard portion. 
Strain the clam liquor and heat it to the 
boiling point. 

Fry the salt pork and onion until they are 
light brown. Parboil the potatoes for 
five minutes and then drain off the water. 
Put the potatoes, chopped clams, pork, and 
onions into a saucepan, add the clam liquor 
and enough boiling water to cover them. 
Cook them slowly fifteen minutes. Add the 
soft part of the clams and cook them three 
minutes longer. Add the milk, salt, and 
pepper. Make a thickening according to 
No. 25. Pour it into the chowder and boil 
it five minutes. Put split crackers into the 
chowder just before serving it. 

LOBSTERS 

As lobsters are more diflScult to digest than some other shell- 
fish, those having poor digestion should not eat them. 

The average weight of the market lobster is about 2 lb. 
and the length from 12 to 15 inches. They are most abundant 
from June to September, although obtainable all the year. 



RECIPE 163. 

4 c. clams 

4 medium potatoes 
(washed, pared, 
and cut into inch 
cubes) 

2 medium onions, 
sliced 

i c. salt pork, cut into 
cubes 

3 c. milk, scalded 
2 tbs. butter 

2 tbs. flour 
1 ts. salt 

J ts. white pepper 
6 common crackers, 
split 



Digitized by 



Google 



FISH 111 

Selection of Lobsters. — Choose a medium-sized one hav- 
ing a hard shell streaked with black. Take it in the hand ; 
if it is heavy in proportion to its size, it is fresh. Straighten 
out the tail ; if it springs back, the lobster is fresh. Unless 
well acquainted with conditions at your market it is well to 
select live lobsters. 

Boiling. — Lobsters should be put alive into boiling salted 
water and boiled for twenty minutes. They should not be 
eaten until they are cold and should never be kept more than 
twenty hours after boiling. The shell changes from a dark 
green to a bright red color during the boiling process. 

Opening Lobsters. — Takeofif the small and the large claws. 
Separate the tail from the body and draw out the tail meat. 
Separate the tail meat through the center and carefully re- 
move the intestinal canal, which runs the length of the tail. 
Hold the body shell firmly in the hand and draw out the 
body, leaving stomach or lady which is unfit for use. The 
green part or Uver may be removed by shaking the shell. 
Break the body through the center and pick out the meat 
from body bones. Separate the large claws at the joints, 
crack or cut the shell, and remove the meat. The small claws 
should be kept for garnishing. 

RECIPE X64. CREAMED LOBSTER 

Make a thin white sauce according to No. 
24, and keep it hot in a double boiler. Cut 
the lobster meat fine. Allow 1 c. sauce to 
2 e. lobster meat. Add the lobster to the 
sauce, cook it about five minutes, or just 
long enough to heat the lobster. Season it 
with salt and pepper. Serve it plain or on 
toasted bread or crackers. 

RECIPE 165. LOBSTER CHOWDER 

2 c. lobster meat Brown the pork in a stewpan. Add the 
(cut fine) onion and cook it until it is golden brown. 



Digitized by 



Google 



112 



SECOND YEAR 



Make a white sauce of butter, flour, milk, 
and seasoning according to No. 25. Strain 
the pork fat from the onion into the sauce 
and add the lobster meat. 



LOBSTER CROQUETTES 

Mix all the ingredients. Cool the mix- 
ture; shape it into croquettes; fry them 
according to page 114. 



i onion (chopped) 
J c. salt pork (cut 
into i-inch dice) 
2 tbs. butter 
4 tbs. flour 
4 c. milk 
i ts. salt 
Few grains cayenne 

RECIPE i66. 

2 c. chopped lobster 
meat 

J ts. salt 

i ts. nutmeg 

Few grains cayenne 

1 tbs. chopped pars- 
ley 

1 c. thick white sauce 
(No. 26) 



Fats and Oils 

Food Value. — Fats and oils constitute one of the five prin- 
cipal divisions of food. They possess an extremely high food 
value, inasmuch as they furnish the needed supply of energy 
to the body. 

Classes. — Fats and oils come from animal and from vege- 
table sources. The animal fats are : — 

Milk (cream and butter). 

Meat (suet, marrow, dripping, bacon, etc.). 

Fish (cod liver oil, used for medicinal purposes). 

Egg yolks. 
The vegetable sources are : — 

Olive trees (olive oil). . 

.Cotton plant (cottonseed oil). 

Peanut plant (peanut oil). 

Coconut tree (coconut oil). 

Nut trees (various oily nuts). 



Digitized by 



Google 



FATS AND OILS 113 

Vegetable and animal fats are sometimes used in combina- 
tion to produce manufactured foods such as butterine, oleo- 
margarine, cottolene, etc. 

Consistency. — Fats and oils are affected by temperature. 
At ordinary temperatures the fats are solid and oils are liquid. 
But in very hot weather fats tend to become liquid, and in very 
cold weather oils tend to become solid. 

Trying Out and Clarifying. — Before using for cooking 
purposes such fats as beef drippings, leaf lard, etc., they are 
tried out in order to free them from skin and connective tissue, 
and then clarified in order to free them from water, or from 
discoloring impurities. 

Tried out and clarified fat is constantly needed in the 
kitchen as it is used for frying, saut6ing, and shortening foods, 
as well as in other ways. 

Directions for Trying Out Fat. — Cut or chop fat fine, 
put it into a pan in the oven, or on top of the range, with 
enough water to cover it. Simmer it for several hours. 
When fat is free from water, it stops bubbling. Strain it 
through cheesecloth into a tin pail. 

Directions for Clarifying. — Melt beef drippings or tried-out 
fat, add to it a few slices of raw potato, and heat it slowly in 
the oven or on top of the range until it ceases to bubble. 
Strain the fat through cheesecloth and let it stand xmtil it is 
firm, then put it in a cool place. 

Directions for Trying Out Leaf Lard. — Remove all mem- 
branes by pulling and picking them off. Then cut the fat 
into small pieces. Cook it in a double boiler until the fat is 
melted. Strain it through cheesecloth and keep it in a cool 
place. 

Frying. — Frying is cooking food in a bath of smoking hot 
fat. 

Utensils for Frying. — The utensils needed in frying are a 
deep iron kettle called a Scotch bowl, or a deep frying pan, a 



Digitized by 



Google 



114 



SECOND YEAR 



fork, a skimmer with which to remove food when it is cooked, 
a frying basket for croquettes, fish balls, etc., a shallow pan 
in which are laid sheets of soft paper kept warm at the back 
of the range to receive and drain food when it is fried. 

The Fat. — The fat should be put into the kettle and heated 
slowly. It should be smoking hot before the food is put in. 

Too many articles should not be put in at a time as it cools 
the fat. After the frying is done the fat should be cooled and 
strained through double cheesecloth. 

If this is carefully done, the same fat may be used several 
times. When it is too dark for frying purposes, it may be used 
for making soap. 

HARD SOAP 

Line a box with greased paper. Put the 
fat on the back of the range until it is 
melted. Mix the potash and cold water, add 
the ammonia, borax, and dissolved soda mix- 
ture. Stir it occasionally with a stick until 
the potash is dissolved, then let it stand 
until it is cold. 

When the fat is melted and warm (not 
hot), pour it into the potash slowly, stirring it 
all the time, and continue to stir it, from ten 
to fifteen minutes, until the soap is the con- 
sistency of thick cream. 

Pour it into the paper-lined box. Let it 
stand a few hours, and then cut it into 
pieces convenient for use. Do not remove 
it from the box for three days. 

Temperature of Fat Tested. — Frying fat can become very 
much hotter than boiling water. So we say smoking fat and 
not boiling fat. Care must be used to see that the fat is not 
too hot. The following are tests : — 

1. When fat is smoking, drop an inch cube of bread into 
the fat ; if it turns golden brown in sixty seconds, fat is hot 
enough for uncooked mixtures such as doughnuts, fritters, etc. 



RECIPE 167. 




6 lb. of clarified and 


strained fat 


1 lb. can potash 


1 qt. cold water 


2 tbs. powdered bo- 


rax 


J c. ammonia 




dis- 


2 tbs. sugar 


solved 


i c. wash- 


in i c. 


ing soda 


boiling 




water 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 115 

2. Drop an inch cube of bread into smoking fat, and if it 
turns golden brown in forty seconds, it is hot enough for 
cooked mixtures such as fish balls, croquettes, etc. 

Care of Food after Frying. — Drain fried food on soft 
brown paper. Avoid piling fried articles one upon another 
while they are hot and before they are served. 

Egging and Crumbing. — Spread upon a board dried bread 
crumbs which have been rolled and sifted. 

Beat an egg on a plate with a fork imtil white and yolk are 
mixed thoroughly, and no longer ; add to one beaten egg 2 tbs. 
of water. The food to be fried should first be rolled in crumbs, 
then dipped Cn egg, being sure to cover all parts, then again 
in crumbs, and fried in deep fat. 

Bread 

Importance. — Bread has been an important part of the 
world's diet from the earliest ages. Many savage races grind 
grain and mix it with water, making simple forms of bread. 
To a certain extent a nation may be judged by the character 
and variety of the bread it uses. So it is most important that 
all women know how to make good bread. 

Food Value. — Made from grains, principally wheat, the 
most nutritious of grain, bread contains all food elements 
necessary to the growth and repair of the body, and therefore 
has been called quite properly the staff of life. 

Materials. — The materials required for bread making 
are flour as a basis, liquid, in the form of water, milk, or both, 
yeast, to make it light and more digestible ; salt, to flavor it ; 
sugar, to hasten the process of fermentation or rising ; and 
shortening, in the form of lard, butter, or dripping, to decrease 
the natural toughness of a wheat mixture. 

Flour. — Flour is powdered wheat, rye, oats, barley, etc. 

As wheat coi^t^^m^ more of that highly nutritious substance. 



Digitized by 



Google 



116 SECOND YEAR 

gluten, than any other grain, wheat flour is considered the best 
flour for bread making. 

General Composition of Wheat. — Wheat contains starch, 
proteid in the form of gluten, fat, mineral matter, and water. 

Wheat. — As wheat is more used for flour than any other 
grain it will be studied so that you may know something 
about this important contributor to your daily life and 
strength. 

Growth and Kinds of WHeat. — Wheat is a kind of grass 
plant. It grows well in temperate climates. The grain of 
wheat is small, oval in shape, and in color brownish without 
and white within. The outside coat, called the bran coat, 
is composed of three layers. If you do not know what wheat 
looks like, you will be interested in getting a few heads of 
wheat at the florists, and seeing the beards, and the coats of 
the grains. 

The middle portion of the wheat contains the starch and 
gluten, and it also contains the germ or that from which the 
yoimg plant grows. 

Spring wheat, sown in spring and maturing in the later 
simmier, produces a hard grain containing large quantities of 
gluten. From this wheat bread flour is made. 

Winter wheat, sown in the fall and maturing in the early 
simmier, produces a softer grain, containing more starch than 
spring wheat. Pastry flour is made from winter wheat. 

Cleaning. — The grain is first sorted by removing all dirt 
and other matter, and then cleaned by putting it through brush 
rollers to remove all dust. 

Crushing. — The grain is placed imder pressure which cracks 
it open lengthwise in a line with the groove. Then it is 
crushed. The coarse bran and middlings are then separated 
from the finer parts. 

Grinding and Bolting. — The middlings are then ground 
and bolted five or six times, the last bolting being done by 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 117 

putting the powder or flour through fine silk boltmg cloth. 
This is an interesting fabric. Perhaps you will get a piece 
and examine it carefully in order to find the size and space of 
its small meshes through which the flour powder passes. 

Packing. — The flour is packed in barrels, allowing one hun- 
dred and ninety-six poimds to a barrel. It is then ready for 
market, and great quantities of it are shipped all over the 
world from some of our middle western states. 

Kinds of Flour made from Wheat. — Graham flour, a 
coarsely ground flour with bran coats retained, is made from 
wheat. It is named for the man who first made it. 

Entire or Whole Wheatfl,our, a flour from which most of the 
bran coats have been removed, named because it retains a 
greater part of the grain than white flour, is also made from 
wheat. 

White flmir, made as described above by the clearing, 
crushing, grinding, and bolting of wheat, is the commonest 
form of flour made from wheat grains. 

Pastry and Bread Flour. Pastry flour, made from winter 
wheat, contains a greater proportion of starch than bread 
flour, and should be used for all doughs and batters not 
requiring yeast. 

Your teacher will now present some interesting experiments 
to you to show that there is starch in flour, and also a large 
proportion of gluten, and to tell you how to find gluten there. 

Tests of Good Flour. — Good flour may be known : — 

By its creamy tint. 

By its slightly granular feeling when rubbed through the 
fingers. 

By the absorption of a large quantity of liquid when it is 
made into a dough. 

Yeast is a very tiny Uttle plant. It has no stem or leaves, 
or flowers, or seeds. For it is a one-celled plant that grows 
by budding. That means that one cell grows from another. 



Digitized by 



Google 



118 SECOND YEAR 

Your teacher will draw blackboard pictures to illustrate the 
growth and appearance of yeast. When seen xmder a mi- 
croscope, the yeast plant appears as a tiny oval cell which is 
nearly colorless. 

Yeast plants are foxmd growing in the air, on the skins of 
fruits, and on the broken skins of decaying fruit. It is also 
cultivated for use in distillery work and in bread making. 

Market Forms of Yeast. — Compressed yeast, one of the 
market forms of this plant, is skinmied from the top of 
fermented liquor, washed several times, strained and pressed, 
mixed with a small amoimt of starch, and made into cakes. 
These are wrapped in tin foil to keep the yeast from drying. 
When fresh, it is firm, moist, and creamy in color, and one cake 
contains milUons of yeast plants. 

Dry Yeast is another market form. It is made by mixing 
fresh yeast with starch or meal until a stiflF dough is formed. 

Liquid Yeast is a third market form. In olden days it was 
very common indeed. It is now called baker^s yeast and is 
made from potatoes, sugar, and a small amoimt of hops and 
water, added to a little yeast to start yeast plants growing. 
The potato, hops, sugar, and water make a substance very 
favorable to the growth of the yeast plant. 

Experiments with Yeast. 

1. Mix 1 yeast cake, 2 ts. sugar, and i c. lukewarm water. 
Place part of mixture in three different test tubes. 

2. Place test tube No. 1 in water at 32° F. and keep it at 
that temperature for 1 hr. 

3. Place test tube No. 2 in water at 212° F. and keep the 
water at that temperature for 1 hr. 

4. Place test tube No. 3 in lukewarm water and keep it at 
between 75° and 90° for 1 hr. 

At end of an hour examine the three tubes, and compare 
the results. 

Inferences by the class. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 119 

Growth of Yeast Plants. — Yeast plants grow best at a 
temperature of 70 to 85°. The freezing point (32° F.) stops 
the growth of the plant but does not kill it. It may be 
killed by pouring hot water (130°) on it. From these 
facts you can learn that yeast will not grow and make bread 
rise when it is cold, nor can the yeast cause bread to rise after 
it reaches a temperature which kills the yeast plant. When 
dough sours J the yeast has been allowed to grow too long. 

When yeast is added to a batter, it is like scattering into it 
millions of Uttle living cells which grow rapidly imder certain 
conditions or when given air, warmth, moisture, and a 
sweetened substance. When yeast grows, it changes the 
sweetened substance into alcohol and a gas called carbon 
dioxide. This change is called fermentation. 

Bread Making. — Bread must be mixed, kneaded, raised, 
molded or shaped, raised a second time, and baked in order 
to produce an appetizing and wholesome mixture of the 
substances in it. 

The process of bread making consists of mixing the dry 
materials', adding the yeast and lukewarm liquid, mixing or 
kneading it thoroughly to insure thorough mixing of the 
ingredients and letting the mixture rise in a warm place to 
double its bulk. This order may be reversed, starting with 
the liquids and adding dry materials to them. 

The water should be boiled before and the milk should be 
scalded. 

All the liquids should be cooled to lukewarm temperatures 
before adding the yeast. 

If the dough rises too long or over twice the bulk, the dough 
becomes sour. To prevent this cut or knead it down when it 
is twice its size, and let rise again before shaping it. 

After it is shaped, the dough is put into a greased pan; it 
is then allowed to rise again to double its size, and then is 
baked in a hot oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



120 



SECOND YEAR 



Purpose of Baking. — Bread is baked to cook the starch, 
thus making it digestible, to kill yeast plant so as to stop fer- 
mentation, to drive out gas and the alcohol, and to form a 
protecting brown crust. 



RECIPE i68. 

2 c. boiling water 

1 ts. sugar 

2 ts. salt 

2 tbs. lard, butter, 
or dripping 

i yeast cake mixed 
with i c. luke- 
warm water, about 
6 c. flour, or 
enough to make it 
the right consis- 
tency for knead- 
ing 



RECIPE 169. 

2 c. hot milk, or 
1 c. hot milk and 
1 c. boiling water 
1 ts. salt 
1 ts. sugar 
1 yeast cake mixed 
with } c. luke- 
warm water, floiyr 



WATER BREAD — SLOW PROCESS 

Put the boiling water, sugar, salt, and 
shortening into a mixing bowl and stir 
the mixture until the' shortening is melted. 
Break the yeast into bits and mix it with 
i c. lukewarm water. When the liquid in 
the bowl is lukewarm, add the yeast, and 
stir in flour gradually, using a knife, or 
wooden spoon. When the dough is stiff 
enough to make into a smooth ball, turn it 
out on a floured board and knead it until it 
is smooth and elastic. Return it to the 
bowl, cover it closely, and let it rise in a 
warm place (about 75** F.) imtil it has 
doubled its bulk. When it is ready, shape it 
into biscuits or loaves, place in greased 
pans, cover it, and let it rise again to double 
its bulk. Bake it in a hot ovem Loaves 
require from 45 to 60 m. ; biscuits from 10 
to 20 m., according to size. When they are 
baked, remove them from pans and cool 
them on a cake cooler. 

Milk may be used instead of water for 
this recipe, but in that case but half as 
much shortening should be used. 

BREAD— QUICK PROCESS 

Follow the directions in No. 168. With 
the amount of yeast in this recipe tlie 
bread should be completed in five or six 
hours. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 



121 



to make it stiff 
enough to knead, 
(about 60.) 

RECIPE 170. 
1 c. scalded milk 

1 c. boiling water, or 

2 c. water 

1 tbs. butter 

2 ts. salt 

} c. molasses 

1 yeast cake mixed 
with J c. lukewarm 
water 

1 c. white flour and 
entire wheat flour, 
to make it stiff 
enough to knead 

RECIPE 171. 

1 c. milk (scalded), or 

i o. milk (scalded) and 

} c. boiling water 

1 ts. salt 

1 ts. sugar 

1 tbs. butter 

i yeast cake mixed 

with i c. lukewarm 

water 
About 3 c. flour, or 

enough to knead 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 
Follow directions in No. 168. 



RECIPE 17a. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Put the hot milk, salt, sugar, and shorten- 
ing into a mixing bowl, and when the mix- 
ture is lukewarm, add the yeast and the 
flour until it is stiff enough to knead. 
Enead it; let it rise to double its bulk. 
Shape it into balls; put them into a 
buttered pan, cover them, and let them rise 
again to double their bulk. Press through 
the center, almost cutting the ball, with the 
floured handle of a wooden spoon. Brush 
one half with melted butter, fold the other 
half over it, and press them together. 
Let them rise again and bake them ten to 
fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

CRESCENT ROLLS 
Shape Parker House Roll mixture into 
sticks, then shax)e the sticks into crescents, 
let them rise to double their bulk and bake 
them in a hot oven from ten to fifteen 
minutes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



122 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 173. 



RECIPE 174. 
1 c. milk (scalded) 
} c. sugar 

1 ts. salt 

2 tbs. butter 

} yeast cake mixed 
with i c. luke- 
wann water 

1 tbs. euinamon 

i c. currants 

} c. chopped citron 

About 3 c. flour, or 
enough to knead 



RECIPE 175. 

1 c. scalded milk 

1 ts. salt 

1 tbs. sugar ' 

4 tbs. butter 

} yeast cake mixed 
with } c. luke- 
warm water 

1 egg white 

3 to 4 c. flour 



BRAIDS 

Use Parker House Roll mixture; make 
it into thin sticks; fasten three sticks to- 
gether at the end, and braid them. Cut 
them into flve-inch lengths; place them 
apart in a buttered pan, let them rise to 
twice their size ; bake them in a hot oven 
about twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
When they are baked, brush them with 
melted butter. 

SWEDISH ROLLS 

Mix a dough according to the directions 
for Parker House Rolls. When the dough 
has risen to double bulk, knead it and roll it 
out flat on a floured board until it is } inch 
thick. Spread it with melted butter, 
sprinkle it with cinnamon, sugar, currants, 
and chopped citron. Roll up the dough 
like jelly roll. Cut it into half-inch slices. 
Stand the slices on end oh buttered pan; 
let them rise again until the bulk is doubled. 
Bake them from twenty to thirty minutes 
in the hot oven. When they are cooked, 
the tops may be glazed by brushing them 
with a mixture of white of egg and a little 
cold water. Return them to the oven and 
dry the egg. 

BREAD STICKS 

Put the hot milk in a mixing bowl, add 
the salt, sugar, and butter. When the 
mixture is lukewarm, add the dissolved 
yeast mixture and white of egg well beaten. 
Add enough flour to knead. Let it rise to 
double its bulk. Knead it again, shape it, 
and put the sticks on a buttered pan one 
inch apart. Let them rise again to double 
their bulk and bake them about ten min- 
utes, or until the sticks are dry, in a hot 
oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BREAD 



123 



GENERAL PROPORTIONS FOR YEAST DOUGHS 







o 






g 






g 


s 


5 


g 


Cf 




o 


M 




H 


I-] 


CQ 


QQ 


Ic. 


Its. 


1 tbs. 


Ic. 


Its. 


2tbs. 


Ic. 


Itbs. 


1 tbs. 


Ic. 


ic. 


2 tbs. 



Bread 

Rolls 

Muffins (breakfast) . 
Muffins (tea) . . 



i to 1 cake 
i to 1 cake 
} to 1 cake 
} to 1 cake 



abt. 3 c. 
abt. 3 c. 

2 c. 

2 c. 



GENERAL PROPORTIONS FOR QUICK DOUGHS 





Flouk 


Baking 

POWDBR 


SUQAB 


Shobtenxno 




Liquids 


Pop-overs . . 


Ic. 










1 


Ic. 


Griddle cake . 


Ic. 


2ts. 





Its. 


Itol 


Ic. 


Fritters . . . 


Ic. 


— 


2 tbs. 


Its. 


lto2 


ic. 


Muffins I. . . 


Ic. 


2ts. 


1 tbs. 


1 ts. 


1 


i c. scant 


Muffins II. . 


Ic. 


2ts. 


ic. 


2 tbs. 


1 


ic. 


Cake . . . 


lie. 


lits. 


Ic. 


4 tbs. 


2 


ic. 


Doughnuts 


Ic. 


1 ts. 


ic. 


its. 


1 


i c. about 


Cookies . . 


lc.+ 


Its. 


ic. 


2 tbs. 


i 


2 tbs. about 


Biscuits . . 


Ic. 


2ts. 


— 


J to 1 tbs. 




i c. about 


Shortcake . . 


Ic. 


2ts. 


— 


2 tbs. 


— 


i c. about 


Pastry . . . 


Ic. 


its. 


— 


4 tbs. 


— 


i c. about 



Baking Powder Mixtures 

Doughs and Batters. — Baking powder may be used in the 
place of yeast to make a flour mixture rise. When the mix- 
ture is of moistened flour or meal stifif enough to knead, it is 



Digitized by 



Google 



124 SECOND YEAR 

called a dough. Bread dough, biscuit dough, and pie dough 
are familiar examples of the degree of stiffness. If the mix- 
ture is thin enough to be beaten, it is called a batter. 
Pancake batter, muflSn batter, and cake batter are examples 
of this degree of stiffness. 

Dough and Batter Proportions. — Learn this table of dough 
and batter proportions : — 

1 measure of flour to 1 of Uquid makes a thin batter. 

2 measures of flour to 1 of liquid makes a drop or muffin batter. 

3 measures of flour to 1 of liquid makes a soft dough fit to 

knead. 

4 measures of flour to 1 of liquid makes a dough stiff enough to 

roll thin, as pastry or cookies. 

General Directions for Mixing Doughs and Batters. — 
First, mix and sift all dry materials ; second, pour the liquids 
slowly into the dry mixture ; and lastly, mix and beat the 
mixture thoroughly. 

Batters may be stirred and beaten with a spoon. 

Doughs are more easily and thoroughly mixed with a 
knife. 

Raising Flour Mixtures. — Flour mixtures may be raised 
by beating air into them, or by the gas which escapes from 
fermenting yeast, or by the gas made by using cream of tartar 
or some acid substance with soda. 

Baking soda is used with cream of tartar or some other acid 
substances, such as sour milk or molasses. But baking 
powder is the most commonly used means of getting gas into 
flour mixtures, other than bread, for the purpose of raising 
them. 

Baking Powder 

Composition. — Baking powder is made up of one part of 
bicarbonate of soda, about two parts of cream of tartar, and 
a little starch. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BAKING POWDER 125 

Baking powder must contain at least two ingredients, 
bicarbonate of soda and some acid substance, usually cream 
of tartar. When moistened together, thegfe two substances 
set carbon dioxide free. 

This gas, if in a dough or batter, fills it with what we call 
little air holes. But they are really little bubbles of the dough 
containing gas. 

Bicarbonate of soda is an alkaline substance made from 
common salt. 

Cream of tartar is an acid substance obtained from the 
argols foimd on the inside of wine casks. Your teacher will 
show you some of these argols. 

Whenever alkaline and acid substances are brought to- 
gether and moistened, they set a gas free. If you mix J ts. of 
soda and J ts. cream of tartar, and moisten the mixture in the 
bowl of a spoon, you will see bubbles containing the freed gas. 
Baking powder doughs and batters should be rapidly pre- 
pared and baked as soon after they are mixed as possible 
before the bubbles break. 

Experiments. — Perform these experiments and observe 
as directed. 

1. Mix J ts. baking soda and 1 ts. cream of tartar. No 
change is seen. When baking soda and cream of tartar are 
mixed together dry, no gas is set free. 

2. Mix 1 ts. soda with 2 tbs. cold water and stir. No 
bubbles are to be seen. 

3. Mix 2 ts. cream of tartar with J c. cold water. No bub- 
bles appear. 

4. Pour mixture No. 3 into No. 2 — small bubbles, slight 
disturbance. When these are mixed with cold liquid, most 
of the gas set free is dissolved by the liquid. 

5. Heat the mixture. There is rapid bubbling and great 
disturbance. When these substances are mixed with cold 
liquid and then heated, the gas is driven out of the liquid. 



Digitized by 



Google 



126 



SECOND YEAR 



Proportions. 

1 cup of flour requires 1 to 2 ts. baking powder. 
1 cup of molasses requires 1 ts. bicarbonate of soda. 
1 cup thick soiu* milk requires ^ ts. bicarbonate of soda. 
When eggs are used in a mixture, less baking powder is 
required. 



RECIPE 176. 

4 oz. bicarbonate 
of soda 

9 oz. cream of tar- 
tar 

2 oz. comstaroh. 



BAKING POWDER 

Mix and sift the soda and cornstarch 
thoroughly together; add the cream of 
tartar, and sift the mixture through a fine 
strainer about eight times. Put the mix- 
ture into tightly covered tin cans or glass jars. 



RECIPE 177. 

1 egg 

1 c. milk (scant) 

1 c. flour 

\ ts. salt 



POP-OVERS 

Mix and sift the flour and salt. Beat the 
e^, add to it the milk, and add it gradually 
to the dry mixture, making a smooth batter. 
Beat it with an egg beater until the mixture 
is full of air bubbles. Have gem pans well 
greased and heated ; pour the mixture into 
the pans until they are two thirds full. 
Bake them on the bottom shelf of a hot 
oven for about thirty minutes, until they 
are well puffed up and browned. 



RECIPE 178. 

1 c. flour 

2 ts. baking powder 
\ ts. salt 

1 scant c. milk 
1 ts. melted butter 
1 egg (if desired) 



SWEET-MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

Mix the dry materials and sift them. 
Beat the eggs and add the milk and melted 
butter ; pour the liquid mixture slowly into 
the dry mixture, stir it to make a smooth 
batter, then beat it well. Cook it by spoon- 
fuls on a hot greased griddle or frying pan, 
using just enough fat to keep cakes from 
sticking to pan. As soon as the cakes are 
full of bubbles, turn them quickly (with a 
broad knife or griddle cake turner) and cook 
the other side, Never turn them twice. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BAKING POWDER 



127 



RECIPE 179. 
1 c. flour 
i ts. baking soda 
} ts. salt 

1 c. thick sour milk 
legg 

RECIPE 180. 

i c. flour 

i c. com meal 

1 ts. sugar 

2 ts. baking powder 
} ts. salt 

1 c. milk 

1 egg (if desired) 

RECIPE 181. 
1 c. scalded milk 
1 c. stale bread 
crumbs 

1 ts. butter 
legg 

J c. flour 
i ts. salt 

2 ts. baking powder 

RECIPE 182. 
1 c. flour 
} ts. salt 
1 tbs. sugar 
2eggs 

J C. TTiillr 



RECIPE 183.. 
1 o. boiling water 
6 tbs. butter 
1 c. pastry flour 
4 eggs 



SOUR-MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 
Mix according to No. 178. 



CORN-MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 
Mix according to No. 178. 



BREAD-CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES 

Soak the crumbs in the milk, add the 
butter, and let the mixture stand until it is 
cold and the cnmibs are soft. Add the 
beaten egg. Mix the dry materials, add 
them to the bread-cnmib mixture, beat it 
well, and cook as in No. 178. If the mixture 
is too thick, thin it with milk or water. 

FRITTER BATTER 

Sift the flour and salt into a bowl. 
Separate the eggs, beat the yolks well, add 
them to the milk. Pour it gradually into 
the flour mixture and mix it until the batter 
is smooth. Beat the white stiff, add it to 
the batter, and cut and fold it into mixture. 
Fry spoonfuls in deep hot fat. This batter 
is used for fruit. 

CREAM CAKES 

Cook the water and butter in a saucepan 
until the boiling point is reached. Add the 
whole quantity of flour and mix it well. 
Remove the mixture from the fire and cool 



Digitized by 



Google 



128 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 184. 
2 c. flour 

4 ts. baking powder 
1 tbs. sugar 
i ts. salt 

1 ^SS 

2 tbs. melted butter 
1 c. milk 

RECIPE 185. 
Add to No. 184: 

J c. sugar 

1 egg 

1 tbs. butter 

RECIPE 186. 
Add to No. 184: 

1 c. blueberries 

i c. sugar 

RECIPE 187. 
1 c. flour 
i e. corn meal 
I e. sugar 

4 ts. baking powder 
1 ts. salt 
legg 

1 scant c. milk 

2 tbs. melted butter 
or dripping 



it. Add the eggs, unbeaten, one at a time, 
and beat it thoroughly. When all the 
eggs are added, beat the mixture five 
minutes; drop spoonfuls from the tip 
of the spoon on a buttered sheet, some dis- 
tance apart, and bake the cakes about i 
hour in a quick oven or until the cakes are 
puffed up and hollow. Fill them with 
whipped cream or cream filling. 

This recipe makes one dozen medium- 
sized sheUs. 

PLAIN MUFFINS 
Mix according to general rule for mixing 
doughs and batters and bake the muf&ns 
quickly in a hot oven. 



TEA MUFFINS 



BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 
For blueberry muffins a little less milk is 
required. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS OR CORN CAKE 
Mix according to general rule for mixing 
doughs and batters. Use greased gem 
pans, or a shallow, greased pan. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BAKING POWDER 



129 



RECIPE i88. GRAHAM OR RYE MUFFINS 

These may be made by substituting 
graham or rye flour for the com meal in 
No. 187, omitting the butter. 

RECIPE 189. CEREAL GEMS 

1 e. cold cooked Mix together cooked cereal, flour, salt, 
oatmeal mush or and baking powder. Add the beaten egg 
cream of wheat and the milk. Bake the gems in hot, 

1 c. flour buttered gem pans in a hot oven. 

i ts. salt 

4 ts. baking powder 

1 egg (beaten light) 
Milk enough to 

make a drop bat- 
ter 

. RECIPE 190. 

2 c. flour 
1 tbs. ginger 
i ts. salt 
1 ts. bicarbonate of 

soda 

1 c. molasses 
} c. cold or boiling 

water 

3 tbs. melted drip- 
ping or butter 

RECIPE 191. 

2i c. flour 
i c. sugar 

2 ts. ginger 
1 ts. cinnamon 
1} ts. bicarbonate 

of soda 
1 c. molasses 
1 egg (beaten light) 

3 tbs. melted dripping 
1 c. sour milk 



GINGERBREAD. I 

Mix and sift the dry materials ; mix the 
wet materials. Pour the wet mixture into 
the dry, beat it thoroughly, and bake it in 
a shallow greased pan for about twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. Boiling water 
makes a moist gingerbread and cold water 
makes a dry one. 



GINGERBREAD. H 

Mix and sift the dry materials ; mix the 
wet materials and the beaten egg. Pour 
the wet mixture into the dry, and mix and 
beat it thoroughly. Bake it in greased 
muffin tins or a shallow pan for about 
twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



130 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 19a. 

2 c. flour 

4 ts. baking powder 

i ts. salt 

li tbs. shortening 

About } c. milk 
(or } c. milk and 
water mixed) 



RECIPE 193. 

2 c. flour 

4 ts. baking powder 

i ts. salt 

4 tbs. shortening 

About i c. milk 



RECIPE 194. 

Use the material of 
No. 193. 



RECIPE 195. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, 
and salt. Work in the shortening, add the 
milk slowly, stirring it with a knife, until 
the dough has right consistency. Turn it 
out on a floured board, press it down 
lighUy with a rolling pin until the dough 
is one inch thick. Cut it with a floured 
biscuit cutter and bake it from 10 to 15 m. 
in a hot oven or until it is thoroughly 
cooked. Work rapidly. 

SHORT CAKE 

Mix the materials as in No. 192. Divide 
the mixture into halves. Put one half into 
a greased pie plate, and brush the top with 
melted butter. Spread the second portion 
over the first. Bake it for about twenty- 
five minutes in a hot oven. When it is 
cooked, place one half on a serving plate, 
cover it with crushed fruit and place the 
other half over it. Put fruit or whipped 
cream on top. 

Strawberries, peaches, raspberries, or 
stewed fruits may be used. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

Put the mixture into a shallow, greased, 
oblong tin. Have four sour apples, pared, 
cored, and cut into quarters. Place the 
quarters, pointed side down, in parallel 
rows on the shortcake mixture and sprinkle 
the apples with 2 tbs. sugar. Bake 
it in a hot oven from twenty to thirty 
minutes, or until the apples are soft and the 
cake is cooked. Serve it with a sweet 
pudding sauce. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING 
Wipe, pare, and core six apples and 
steam them until they are tender. Make 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE OVEN 131 

a dough according to No. 192. Cover 
each apple with the biscuit dough and bake 
them in a moderately hot oven for about 
twenty-five minutes. Serve them with 
plain pudding sauce or lemon sauce. 

The Oven 

Tests. — It is of first importance to have the oven of proper 
temperature. Different preparations require different tem- 
peratures. One of the unfailing qualities of a good cook is 
her care for and knowledge about her oven. 

When white writing paper laid in oven will turn golden 
brown in five minutes, the oven is moderaie. 

When white writing paper laid in oven will turn dark 
brown in five minutes, the oven is hot. 

Observations during Baking Process. — Notice these 
facts about your mixtiu*es as you look at them from time to 
time in the oven. 

First, the mixture begins to rise. 

Second, it continues rising and begins to brown in spots. 

Third, it rises in the center and browns all over. 

Fourth, it settles to level and shrinks from pan. 

Time Table for Baking 

Biscuit (baking powder), 10 to 15 m. 
Biscuit and rolls (raised), 10 to 20 m. 
Bread (loaf), 45 to 60 m. 

Cake (layer), 15 to 30 m. 

Cake (loaf), 35 to 60 m. 

Cookies, 5 to 10 m. 

Com cake (thick), 30 to 40 m. 

Com cake (thin), 15 to 20 m. 

Muffins (baking powder), 20 to 25 m. 
Muffins (raised), about 30 m. 

Pies, 30 to 60 m. 



Digitized by 



Google 



132 SECOND YEAR 



Cake 



With and Without Butter. — There are two general classes 
of cake ; those made with butter, as fruit .cake, pound cake, 
plain cake, etc., and those made without butter, as sponge 
cake, angel cake, etc. 

Ingredients. — Only the best quality of eggs, butter, gran- 
ulated sugar, and pastry flour will guarantee the best results 
in cake making. The ingredients necessary to cake batters 
are: — 

Sugar, butter (for certain cakes), eggs, milk or cold water, 
salt, baking powder, flavoring or spices, pastry flour. If 
bread flour is substituted for pastry flour, use 2 tbs. less for 
each cup called for. 

Preparation for Making. — An earthen bowl and wooden 
spoon should always be used for mixing. 

The pan for baking should be well buttered and sprinkled 
lightly with floiu*, or lined with buttered paper. 

The fire should be looked at to see if it is in condition to 
give an even, steady heat throughout the entire baking. 

Method of making Cakes containing Butter. — Put the 
butter into a bowl and cream it thoroughly ; add the sugar 
slowly, working it into the butter. Be siu*e to continue cream- 
ing the mixtiu*e imtil the sugar is completely dissolved and 
the mixture is light and foamy. 

Separate the yolks and whites of eggs and beat the yolks 
light and creamy. Add them to the butter mixture and beat 
it well. 

Sift the baking powder, and spices if used, with the flour, 
adding liquid and flour mixtiu*e alternately. If fruit is used, 
it is added now and floured to prevent its settling to the 
bottom. 

The whites, beaten stiff, should be added last. 

Caution. — Never stir cake after the final beating. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 133 

Method of making Cakes containing no Butter. Sponge 
Cakes. — Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs and beat 
the yolks thick and cream colored. 

Add the sugar slowly and continue the beating; add the 
flavoring. 

Beat the white stiff and dry and add it to the first mixture. 

Sift the flour at least three times and cut and fold it into the 
mixture last. 

To cut and fold, cut the mixtiu*e through and through with 
the side of a spoon and fold it by turning the spoon completely 
over to blend the mgredients. 

The Baking of Cake. — During the baking the oven door 
must be opened and closed most gently so as to avoid jarring 
the cake, and thereby causing it to fall. 

Divide the required time for baking into quarters accord- 
ing to directions on page 131. 

Cakes made without butter require a cooler oven than 
butter cakes. 

Cake is done when it shrinks from the sides of the pan^or 
when a straw inserted in the center comes out dry, or when it 
springs back when pressed with finger. 

After Baking. — Directly after baking cake remove it from 
pan and cool it by inverting it on a wire cake cooler. Be 
careful not to break the cake. Allow it to remain imtil it is 
cold. 

RECIPE Z96. CHEAP SPONGE CAKE 

2 eggs Beat the yolks thick. Add the sugar 

1 c. sugar gradually and continue the beating ; add 

1 tbs. lemon juice the lemon juice and water. Beat the white 
5 tbs. cold water stiff and dry. Mix and sift the flour and 
1| c. pastry flour baking imwder, add it to the yolk mixture ; 

2 ts. baking powder add the beaten white and cut and fold it 

into the cake. Bake the cakes in buttered 
muffin pans in a moderate oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



134 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 197. 

3 eggs 

i c. fine granulated 

sugar 
Spk. salt 
2 ts. lemon juice 
J c. pastry flour 



RECIPE 198. 

i c. white of eggs 
} ts. cream of tartar 
Spk. salt 

i c. sugar (fine gran- 
ulated) 
J c. flour 
i ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 199. 

i c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs 

i C. TnilV 

li c. flour 

2 ts. baking powder 

Spk. salt 

i ts. vanilla or 

i ts. spice 

RECIPE 200. 

2 tbs. butter 
1 c. sugar 

1 c. sour milk 

2 c. flour 

i ts. bicarbonate of 

soda 
1 ts. cinnamon 



SPONGE CAKE 

Beat the yolks thick; add the sugar 
slowly and continue the beating; add the 
lemon juice. Beat the white stiff and dry ; 
add it to the yolk mixture. Mix the flour 
and salt, sift it three times and cut and fold 
it into the egg mixture. Cook the cake in 
a buttered pan in a rather slow oven for 
about forty minutes. 

ANGEL CABIE 

Turn the white on a large platter and 
beat it with a fork or a wire whisk. When 
it is partially stiff, add the cream of tartar 
and continue the beating. Beat in the 
sugar gradually and add the vanilla. Sift 
the flour and salt five times; then sift it 
into the egg mixture, cutting and folding it 
in. Use an angel cake pan and bake the 
cake one hour in a rather slow oven. 

PLAIN CAKE 

Mix the material according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. 

Note. — Many other kinds of cake may 
be made by varying this recipe. Spices 
and fruit, or chopped nuts may be added, 
or the mixture may be used for layer cake, 
marble cake, etc. 



CAKE WITHOUT EGGS 

Prepare the fruit and sprinkle it with 
2 tbs. of the flour which is to be used 
in the cake. Sift the remainder of the 
flour, soda, and spices together ; cream the 
butter, add the sugar slowly, creaming it 
with the butter; add to it the milk and 
flour mixture alternately, and beat it well. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAKE 



135 



} ts. nutmeg 
i ts. mace 
i c. raisins 
i c. currants 

2 tbs. citron, 
chopped fine 

RECIPE 201. 

i c. butter 

} c. sugar 

legg 

i c. milk 

li c. flour 

2i ts. baking 
powder 

i ts. grated nut- 
meg 

RECIPE 202. 

J c. butter 
1} 0. sugar 

3 eggs 

J c. milk 

li c. flour 

i c. cocoa 

2 ts. baking powder 

1 ts. vanilla 

RECIPE 203. 
i c. butter 
1} c. sugar 

4 egg whites 

J C. TTllllc 

li c. pastry flour 

2 ts. baking powder 
i ts. almond ex- 

iract 

RECIPE 204. 

i c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

4 egg yolks and 



Fold in the floured fruit, 
in a moderate oven. 



Bake the cake 



ONE EGG CAKE 

Mix the material according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. Use the 
cake while it is fresh. 



COCOA CAKE 

Mix the materials according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. 

Frost with lemon frosting, No. 216, or 
chocolate frosting. No. 215. 



SILVER CAKE 

Mix the material according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. 

Note. — Reserve the yolks from this 
cake for Gold Cake. 



GOLD CAKE 

Mix the materials according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. 



Digitized by 



Google 



136 



SECOND YEAR 



1 whole egg 
} c. milk 

2 c. flour 

2 ts. baking powder 
i ts. mace 

RECIPE 205. 
2 eggs 

1 e. sugar 

li tbs. melted but- 
ter 
J e. milk 
} ts. flavoring 
li c. flour 

2 ts. baking powder 



RECIPE 206. 

i c. butter 
} c. sugar 
legg 

1 C. TTlllV 

2i e. flour 

4 ts. baking powder 

i ts. vanilla 



LAYER CAKE 

Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl, add the 
sugar gradually, and continue the beating. 
Add the melted butter, milk, and flavoring, 
and lastly the sifted flour and baking 
powder. Beat the mixture thoroughly. 
Divide it into two parts and bake them in 
buttered layer pans or in buttered tin or 
agate pie plates. Fill with lemon cream, 
No. 207, or with plain cream. No. 209. 
Put chocolate or lemon frosting on top, 
Nos. 215, 216. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

Mix the materials according to No. 199. 
Serve the pudding with foamy sauce or 
with lemon sauce. 



Creams and Frostings for Cake 



RECIPE 207. 
1 lemon juice 
1 ts. grated rind 
i c. boiling water 
1 tbs. cornstarch 
i c. sugar 
1 egg (beaten) 
1 ts. butter 



LEMON FILLING 
Mix the boiling water, lemon juice, and 
lemon rind. Mix the cornstarch and sugar 
thoroughly. Pour the liquid mixture into 
the cornstarch and let it boil three mintites, 
stirring it constantly. Put over the boiling 
water, and cook it five minutes longer ; add 
the beaten egg and butter and cook it two 
minutes. Cool it. Use it for filling in 
layer cake. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CREAMS AND PROSTINGS FOR CAKE 



137 



RECIPE 208. 
1 orange juice 
1 tbs. grated rind 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
1 c. cold water 
1 tbs. cornstarch 
3 tbs. sugar 
Spk. salt 
legg 
1 ts. butter 



RECIPE 209. 

i c. sugar 

2) tbs. cornstarch 

or 
J c. of flour 
i ts. salt 
2 c. milk 
2 eggs (beaten) 
1 ts. butter 
1 ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 210. 



RECIPE 211. 

2 egg whites 

j c. shredded coco- 
nut 

Powdered sugar 
enough to make it 
of the consistency 
to spread 

RECIPE 212. 

White of 1 egg 

1 tbs. lemon juice, 



ORANGE FILLING 

Mix the orange juice and rind, lemon 
juice, and cold water. Boil the mixture 
two minutes, then strain it. Mix the corn- 
starch, sugar, and salt thoroughly, pour 
the liquid mixture over it and boil it over 
the fire two minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Then cook it over boiling water for five min- 
utes. Beat the egg, add it to the corn- 
starch mixture and cook it two minutes 
longer. Add the butter. Cool the filling 
before using it. Use it in layer cake. 

CREAM FILLING 

Scald the milk. Mix the sugar, corn- 
starch or flour, and salt ; pour on the hot 
milk and cook it over the fire for three 
minutes, stirring it constantly. Put it 
over boiling water and cook it ten minutes 
longer, stirring it occasionally. Pour the 
flour mixture over the beaten eggs, put it 
back into the double boiler, and cook it 
two minutes longer, and add the butter and 
vanilla. 

Cool the filling before using it. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FILLING 

Add to No. 209, 2 tbs. melted chocolate. 

COCONUT FILLING 
Beat the white on a large plate with a 
fork or wire whisk, add the sugar gradually 
until it is stiff enough to spread, and con- 
tinue the beating; add the flavoring. 
Spread it on cake and sprinkle it thickly 
with shredded coconut. 



PLAIN FROSTING. I 

Beat the white stiff; add the lemon 
juice and sugar gradually and continue the 



Digitized by 



Google 



138 



SECOND YEAR 



or i ts. vanilla 
1 c. powdered sugar, 
or enough to 
. make the frost- 
ing thick enough 
to spread 

RECIPE ai3. 

IJ c. powdered 

sugar 
1 tbs. milk 
1 ts. butter 
i ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 214. 

1 0. gran, sugar 
i c. boiling water 
White of an egg 
i ts. vanilla or 



beating. When of the right consistency, 
beat it thoroughly and spread it on the cake 
with a broad-bladed knife. 



PLAIN FROSTING. U 

Scald the milk, add to it the butter. 
Beat in the powdered sugar until the frost- 
ing is of the right consistency to spread. 
Add the vanilla and spread the frosting on 
cake. 

More sugar may be used if the amount 
in the recipe does not make it of the projwr 
consistency. 

BOILED FROSTING 

Boil the sugar and water together until 
the sirup spins a thread. Beat white stiff ; 
pour the sirup slowly on the egg and con- 
tinue the beating until the mixture is of the 



J ts. lemon juice right consistency to spread. 



RECIPE 215. 



RECIPE 216. 

2 egg yolks 

1 tbs. grated orange 

rind 
5 tbs. orange juice 
1 ts. lemon juice 
li c. confectioner's 
sugar, or enough 
to make it the 
proper consist- 
ency to spread 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Add to either No. 212 or No. 213 two 
squares of melted chocolate. 

ORANGE FROSTING 

Mix the orange juice and lemon juice 
with the orange rind and let it stand for 
ten minutes, then strain it. Beat the 
yolks light colored and creamy; add the 
sugar and juice gradually and continue the 
beating until the frosting is stiff enough 
to spread. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STEAMED DOUGHS AND BATTERS 



139 



RECIPE 217. 
2 c. brown sugar 
i c. boiling water 
White of 1 egg 



CARAMEL FROSTING 
Beat the white of egg. Boil the sugar 
and water without stirring it until the mix- 
ture forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour it 
dowly into the beaten egg and beat it 
constantly until the mixture is thick 
enough to spread. 



Steamed Doughs and Batters 

General Directions for Cooking. — Grease the inside of the 
cover of the pail or can or moid in which the mixture is to 
be steamed. A tin lard pail or a pound baking powder tin 
may be used instead of molds. 

Fill the tins only two thirds full and cover them tightly • 

Place the pail on a muflSn ring in a large kettle and pour 
enough boiling water around it to reach two thirds of the 
way up the pail. 

Keep the water boiling throughout the entire cooking. 

As water boils away add more boiling water to take its 
place. 



RECIPE 218. 

1 c. flour 

2} ts. baking pow- 
der 

its. salt 

About i c. milk (to 
make a soft dough) 

RECIPE 219. 
1 c. rye meal 
1 c. com meal 
i c. wheat flour 
1} ts. bicarbonate 

of soda 
its. salt 
} c. molasses 
1} 0. sour milk 



DUMPLINGS FOR STEW 
Mix the flour, baking powder, and salt ; 
add enough milk, gradually, to make a soft 
dough. Drop the n^iixture by spoonfuls 
into the stew. Cover it tightly and steam 
it ten minutes without removing the cover. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

Mix the meal, flour, and salt ; sift in the 
soda and mix it in thoroughly. Add the 
molasses and the sour milk. Beat it well, 
turn it into a buttered mold, cover it 
tight, and steam it about three hours. 



Digitized by 



Google 



140 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 220. 

2 c. flour 

3 ts. baking powder 
i ts. salt 

i ts. ground cin- 
namon and mace 
i ts. nutmeg 
i ts. ginger 

4 tbs. suet (chopped 
fine) 

i c. raisins (seeded 
and cleaned) 

I c. currants 
(cleaned) 

1 c. chopped citron 
Cold water to make 

a drop batter 

RECIPE 221. 

2 c. flour 
J c. sugar 

3 ts. baking powder 
i ts. salt 

3 squares chocolate 
(grated) or 4 tbs. 
cocoa 

1 egg (beaten light) 

3 tbs. melted butter 

1 c. milk- 



SUET PUDDING 

Mix and sift the flour, baidng powder, 
salt, and spices. Add the chopped suet, 
fruit, and enough cold water to make a 
drop batter. P*ut the mixture into a 
greased lard pail and steam it for about 
three hours, according to No. 219. Serve 
it with lemon sauce, No. 227. This may 
be cooked in small baking powder cans in 
one hour. 

Plain suet pudding may be made by 
omitting the spices and fruit. 



STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Mix and sift the flour, baking imwder, 
sugar, and salt. Add the chocolate and mix 
thoroughly with the flour mixture. Mix 
the beaten egg, milk, and melted butter; 
I)our it into the dry materials and beat it 
well. Turn it into a buttered pail, cover it, 
and steam it about two hours. Serve it 
with creamy sauce. No. 228. 



RECIPE 222. 



RECIPE 223. 

2 c. whole wheat 

flour 
i ts. bicarbonate 

of soda 



BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

Omit chocolate in No. 221 and use one 
cup of blueberries instead and one scant 
cup of milk. 

WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING 

Mix and sift the flour, soda, and salt. 

Add the fruit and mix it well with the flour 

mixture. Beat the egg, add the milk and 

melted butter to it, and pour it into the dry 



Digitized by 



Google 



STEAMED DOUGHS AND BATTERS 



141 



} ts. salt 

1 c. raisins (seeded) 
i c. currants 
(cleaned) 

1 egg (beaten light) 

2 tbs. butter 
(melted) 

I c. milk or water 
i c. molasses 

RECIPE 224. 



mixture. Beat it well, put it into a 
buttered pail or mold, and steam it about 
three hoiurs. 



RECIPE 225. 
1 c. sugar 
1 tbs. com starch 
lie. boiling water 
Spk. nutmeg 
1 tbs. butter 

RECIPE 226. 

i c. butter 

1 c. powdered sugar 

i ts. vanilla 

i ts. hot water 



RECIPE 227. 

4 ts. com st9«rQb 
1 c. sugar 



STEAMED APPLE PUDDING 

Butter a tin pail and line it with a biscuit 
dough made according to No. 192. 

Fill the pail two thirds full of sliced 
apples which have been sprinkled with a 
little sugar. Cover the top of the apples 
with the biscuit dough one inch thick. 
Butter the inside of the cover and fit it 
tight on the pail. Steam it for two hours, 
according to No. 221. Serve it with plain 
pudding sauce, No. 225. 

Pudding Sauces 

PLAIN PUDDING SAUCE 
Mix the sugar and com starch thoroughly, 
pour on the boiling water, and boil it ten 
minutes, stirring it constantly. Add the 
nutmeg and butter. Serve it hot. 

HARD SAUCE 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar, a tea- 
spoonful at a time, and use the hot. water 
and vanilla to help in creaming it. When 
all the sugar is used, beat the mixture until 
it is light and creaimr. Place the sauce in a 
serving dish, and put it in a cold place to 
harden. 

LEMON SAUCE 

Mix the corn starch and sugar, pour on 
the boiling water, and cook it for ten minutes, 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 



SECOND YEAR 



3 0. boiling water stirring it constantly. Add the lemon juice 
1 lemon (grated rind and butter. Serve it hot. 

and juice) 
1 tbs. butter 



RECIPE 228. 

2 tbs. butter 

i c. powdered sugar 

2 tbs. cream or 

milk 
i ts. vanilla 

RECIPE 229. 

i c. apricot pulp 
i c. thick cream 
1 c. powdered sugar 



CREAMT SAUCE 

Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly 
together. Add the cream and cook it over 
hot water until it liquefies or is creamy. 
Add the vanilla and serve it. 



APRICOT SAUCE 

Drain the juice from the apricots and rub 
them through a sieve. Beat the sugar with 
the apricot pulp. Whip the cream stiff. 
Add it gradually to the apricot mixture and 
serve it at once. 

Peaches may be need instead of apricots, 
using less sugar. 



RECIPE 230. 

3 tbs. butter 

1 c. powdered sugar 

2 c. crushed straw- 
berries 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

Remove the hulls ; wash the berries and 
crush them; cream the butter, add the 
sugar, creaming it well with the butter. 
Add the crushed strawberries and serve it. 



RECIPE 231. 

) c. milk 

2 egg whites 

I c- powdered sugar 

i ts. vanilla 



FOAMY SAUCE. I 

Scald the milk. Beat the egg whites 
stiff and dry. Add the sugar slowly and 
continue the beating. Add the milk and 
flavoring. Beat it well and serve it. 



RECIPE 232. 

White of 2 eggs 

1 c. powdered sugar 

2 tbs. hot milk 
i ts. vanilla 



FOAMY SAUCE. U 

Beat the whites stiff and dry. Add the 
sugar gradually and beat it thoroughly. 
Add the hot milk and vanilla and beat it 
with an egg beater for about two minutes. 
Serve it at once. 



Digitized by 



Google 



STEAMED DOUGHS AND BATTERS 



143 



RECIPE 233. 

2 yolks 

1 c. powdered sugar 

2 tbs. hot milk 
i ts. vanilla 

RECIPE 234. 

1 c. milk 

2 ts. cornstarch 

1 sq. chocolate 

i c. powdered sugar 

2 tbs. boiling water 
1 egg 

i ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 235. 

2 c. flour 

i c. sugar 

2 ts. baking 

powder 
i ts. salt 
i ts. cinnamon or 

nutmeg 
legg 

i c. milk (about) 
} ts. melted butter 



RECIPE 236. 

1 c. molasses 

1 ts. bicarbonate of 

soda 
1 ts. salt 
1 tbs. ginger 
1 tbs. hot water 
i ts. vanilla 



YELLOW SAUCE 

Beat the yolks light colored and thick. 

Add the sugar slowly, beating it thoroughly. 

Add the milk and vanilla and beat it two 

minutes. Serve it at once on hot pudding. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Scald i c. milk. Mix the cornstarch and 
sugar with the remaining cold milk. Grate 
the chocolate and cook it with boiling water 
until it is smooth ; then add it to the corn- 
starch. Put cornstarch mixture into the 
hot milk and cook it ten minutes. Beat 
egg light, add It to the cooked mixture, and 
cook it two minutes longer. Remove it 
from the fire, add the vanilla, and serve it. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Mix and sift the dry materials. Beat 
the egg light, and add to it the milk and 
melted butter. Pour the liquids slowly 
into the dry mixture until the dough is of 
the proper consistency for rolling. If 
necessary, a little more milk may be added. 

Roll the dough out on a floured board 
until it is J inch thick. Cut it with a 
floured doughnut cutter and fry the 
doughnuts according to the directions on 
page 114. 

Sour milk and soda may be used in place 
of baking powder. 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

Sift the soda, salt, and ginger into the 
molasses, add the water and softened drip- 
ping, and flour enough to make dough of 
consistency for rolling. 

Roll it out on a floured board, cut it with 
a floured cutter, and bake the cookies about 
eight minutes in a moderate oven. 



Digitized by 



Google 



144 



SECOND YEAR 



} 0. softened drip- 
ping 

Flour to make a 
dough stiff enough 
to roll 

RECIPE 237. 

i c. butter 

f c. sugar 

1 egg (beaten light) 

1 tbs. milk 

lie. flour (about) 
1} ts. baking powder 
Spk. nutmeg, or any 
flavoring 

RECIPE 238. 

2 tbs. butter 
i c. sugar 
legg 

2 tbs. milk 
i ts. vanilla 

} c. flour (about) 
1 ts. baking powder 
Spk. salt 

I c. chopped nut 
meats 

RECIPE 239. 

3 tbs. butter 
i G. sugar 
legg 

1 tbs. milk 

li c. flour (about) 

li ts. baking powder 

i ts. salt 

IJ sq. chocolate 

RECIPE 240. 
legg 
} c. sugar 



The vanilla may be omitted. 



SUGAR COOKIES 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, and 
cream it thoroughly with the butter; add 
the beaten egg, milk, flour, and baking 
powder and enough more flour to make a 
dough stiff enough to roll. 

Roll it out thin on a floured board, cut 
it with a floured cookie cutter, and bake the 
cookies in a hot oven from Ave to eight 
minutes. 

NUT COOKIES 

Mix as for sugar cookies ; add the nuts ; 
drop the dough by the spoonfuls about two 
inches apart from the point of spoon on 
buttered sheets. Decorate the cookies with 
halves of nuts. Bake them in a quick oven. 



CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

Mix as for sugar cookies. Chill the 
dough, roll it, and cut it with a fancy 
cutter. Bake the cookies in a moderate 
oven. 



OATMEAL COOKIES 

Mix the flour, rolled oats, salt, bakinfiT 
powder, and sugar. Beat the egg light. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 



145 



} ts. vanilla 
i 0. milk (about) 
} c. rolled oats 
2 c. flour 
i ts. salt 



2 ts. baking powder more milk. 



and add the milk to it. Pour the wet 
mixture into the dry. Toss it on a floured 
board, roll it thin, and cut it with biscuit 
cutter. Bake the cookies in moderate oven. 
If the mixture is too dry, add a little 



Pastry 

General Composition. — Pastry is composed principally 
of flour and fat. It is not a food to be recommended as it is 
hard to digest, and for that reason should not be eaten much 
by children or by people with delicate digestion. 

Materials for Making. — Pastry flour, containing less gluten 
and more starch than bread flour, should be used, as it makes 
more tender pastry than can be secured with bread flour. 

Fat, either lard, butter, or beef dripping, or a combination 
of two or more fats, if pure, will serve. Lard makes a white 
and more flaky crust than other fats, but butter and beef 
dripping are considered more digestible than lard in pastry 
combinations. 

Salt is used to flavor, and although a small quantity is used, 
pastry lacking it tastes very flat. 

Baking Powder. A little baking powder is often used to 
,make pastry lighter. 

Water. Either ice water or very cold water should always 
be used for mixing pastry. 



RECIPE 241. 

If 0. pastry flour 

} ts. salt 

} ts. baking powder 

3 tbs. butter or 
beef dripping and 
3 tbs. lard, or 

6 tbs. lard 



PLAIN PASTRY 

Have all the materials cold. 

Mix and sift the flour, salt, and baking 
powder. When the mixture looks like meal, 
chop and rub in one half the shortening, 
and add enough cold water to make a stiff 
dough. Now turn the dough on a slightly 
floured board, pat it down, and roll it till it 



Digitized by 



Google 



146 SECOND YEAR 

Cold water to make is J inch thick. Spread it over with the 
stiff dough remaining half of shortening, sprinkle it with 

flour, fold and roll it again into a long 
narrow strip. Roll it up like a jelly roll 
and cut it off from the end as needed. 
Handle the dough as lightly and as little 
as possible, and roll it in one direction. 
Allowing it to stand on ice before cooking 
improves it much. Bake pastry in a very 
hot oven. This makes pastry for one large 
pie. 

Pies may be made with one or two crusts. If two crusts 
are used, more pastry should be allowed for the upper than for 
the under crust. 

Fruit pies are more digestible when made with an upper 
crust only. 

All pastry should be thoroughly cooked for the purpose of 
increasing its digestibility. 

Lining a Plate with Pastry. — To line a plp,te, roll the pastry 
until it is one eighth of an inch thick, keeping it as nearly 
round as possible, and roll it until it is from 1 to 2 inches larger 
than the plate. Fit it smoothly on the plate by pressing it 
down gently with the back of a bent finger. Be careful not 
to stretch the pastry lining. If two cnjsts are to be used, 
the lower crust may be cut close to the edge of the plate. 

If no upper crust is to be used, the Iqwer crust should be 
from 1 to 2 inches larger than the plate and should be folded 
under to form a rim. 

An upper crust should be 1 to 2 inches larger than the plate 
to allow for shrinkage and also to allow for folding it under 
the lower crust ; incisions should be made in it to allow the 
steam which forms during baking to escape. 

RECIPE 342. APPLE PIE 

5 medium-sized sour line a plate with pastry. Wash, pare, 
apples for one quarter, oore, and slice the apples. Fill 



Digitized by 



Google 



PASTRY 



147 



large pie 
} c. sugar 
i ts. cinnamon or 

nutmeg, or 1 ts. 

lemon juice 
i ts. salt 



RECIPE 243. 

4 tbs. com starch 

1 c. sugar 

li c. boiling water 
J tbs. butter 
Rind and juice of 1 
lemon 

2 eggs 



RECIPE 244. 
2 c. cranberries 
1 c. sugar 
i c. water 



RECIPE 245. 

IJ c. cooked and 

strained squash 
i c. sugar 



the lined plate. Mix the sugar, salt, and 
spice, and sprinkle the mixture over the 
apples. Wet the edge of the under crust, 
put on the top crust, press the edges well 
together, and fold the upper crust under the 
lower one. Bake the pie in a hot oven 
from fort^ to fifty minutes, or until the 
apples are cooked. One teaspoon butter 
dotted over the apples before putting on 
upper crust improves it much. 

LEMON PIE (with two crusts) 

Mix the com starch and sugar thoroughly ; 
pour on the boiling water and boil it, 
stirring it constantly, for three minutes. 
Add the butter, lemon juice and rind, and 
beaten eggs. Mix them well. Let the 
mixture cool before putting it into the pie. 

Line a pie plate with pastry, put in the 
filling, put on the upper crust, and bake the 
pie about forty minutes, in a hot oven. 
The pie, if preferred, may be baked with 
one crust, reserving the whites for a top 
meringue. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

Wash and pick over the cranberries and 
put them into a saucepan. Add the sugar 
and water, and cook them ten minutes and 
let them cool. Line a pie plate with pastry, 
allowing it to be two inches larger than the 
plate, and make a rim. Roll and cut 
strips of pastry for the top. Fill the pie» 
arrange the strips on top, and bake the pie 
about forty minutes in a hot oven. 

SQUASH PIE 
Line a plate with pastry and make a 
raised and fluted rim. 

Mix the squash, sugar, salt, spices, beaten 



Digitized by 



Google 



148 



SECOND YEAR 



} ts. salt egg, and milk thoroughly. Fill the pie and 

J ts. cinnamon, or bake it until the crust is brown or until the 
i ts. nutmeg or mixture puffs up all over. 

ginger 
1 egg (beaten) 

1 c. milk (scalded) 

RECIPE 246. • CUSTARD PIE 

2 eggs Line a plate with pastry as for squash 
i c. sugar pie. Scald the milk. Beat the eggs 
J ts. salt slightly ; add the sugar, salt, and milk. 
Spk. grated nutmeg Strain the mixture into the plate and 
2 c. milk sprinkle it with nutmeg. Bake the pie in a 

hot oven to cook the rim, then cook slowly 
until the custard filling puffs or imtil a 
knife blade put into center of the pie 
comes out clean. 

RHUBARB PIE 

Line a plate with pastry. Wash the 
rhubarb and cut it into inch pieces. Mix 
the sugar, salt, flour, and beaten egg, add 
the mixture to the rhubarb, put on a top 
crust, or put on strips, as in No. 244. 
Bake the pie until the crust is brown and 
the rhubarb is soft. 

The egg in this recipe may be omitted. 

Salads 

Composition. — Salads are made of cooked and raw vege- 
tables, eggs, cheese, fish, meat, fruits, and nuts. These may 
be combined with a French, mayonnaise, or boiled dressing, 
or in some cases with a whipped-cream dressing. 

Food Value. — A meat, fish, or egg salad served with dress- 
ing contains much nourishment. A green salad has a lower 
food value, but it is wholesome, refreshing, and appetizing. 

Preparation of Salads. — Remove the bone, skin, fat, and 
gristle from meat and fish. Cut the meat, vegetables, etc., 
into pieces of uniform size. 



RECIPE 247. 
2 c. rhubarb 
f c. sugar 
i ts. salt 

1 ^gS 

2 tbs. flour 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



149 



If any green is to be used, such as lettuce, parsley, or chick- 
ory, let it lie in cold water a full hour. Then wash it thor- 
oughly in the cold water and dry it in a towel, being careful 
not to crush it. Tie it in a thin cloth and place it on ice. 

Chill all other ingredients to be used in the salad. 

Season the salad well and garnish it attractively. Add 
the dressing immediately before serving it. 



RECIPE 348. 

} ts. salt 
J ts. pepper 
3 tbs. olive oil 
1 tbs. vinegar 

RECIPE 249. 

1 ts. mustard 

2 ts. powdered sugar 

1 ts. salt 
Spk. cayenne 

or paprika 
Tolks of 2 eggs 
li e. olive oil 

2 tbs. lemon juice 
2 tbs. vinegar 

2 egg whites 

(beaten stiff if de- 
sired) 



RECIPE 350. 

1 ts. cornstarch 
i ts. mustard 
1 tbs. sugar 



Salad Dressings 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Put all the ingredients into a small milk 
jar, cover it, and shake it well. This 
dressing may be used with vegetables, or 
it may be used with other salads before 
putting on a thicker dressing. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Have all the utensils and ingredients 
very cold, and place the mixing bowl in a 
pan of ice water while blending them. 
Mix the dry ingredients and add them to 
the yolks and mix them thoroughly. Add 
a few drops of oil at a time until J cup is 
used, beating the mixture constantly with 
a wooden spoon or an egg beater. Then 
add alternately a few drops of lemon juice, 
vinegar, and the oil until all is used, and 
continue the beating, being careful not to 
let the mixture lose its stiff consistency. 
Add the beaten egg whites. 

One half cup cream, beaten stiff, may be 
added to this recipe in place of the egg 
whites. 

BOILED DRESSING 

Mix the dry ingredients. Beat the egg ; 
add to it the dry ingredients, then the butter 
milk, and vinegar. Cook the mixture in a 



Digitized by 



Google 



150 



SECOND YEAR 



i ts. salt 
Spk. cayenne 
legg 

f C. TTiilk 

3 tbs. butter 
J 0. vinegar 



double boiler, stirring it constantly until 
it thickens like boiled custard. Strain it 
and chill it. 



Vegetable and Fruit Salads 



RECIPE 251. 

4 cold boiled pota- 
toes 

i ts. salt 

Spk. pepper 

1 ts. chopped onion 

1 ts. chopped pars- 
ley 

1 c. cold cooked 
beets (cut in dice) 

RECIPE 35a. 



RECIPE 353. 



RECIPE 354. 



POTATO SALAD 

Cut the potatoes into half-inch cubes, 
sprinkle over them the salt and pepper, 
add the chopped onion and parsley, 
and mix them carefully with the potatoes. 
Arrange the mixture on a salad dish, put 
the French dressing over it, and sprinkle 
the beets over the top. Add boiled salad 
dressing just before servmg the salad. 

VEGETABLE SALAD 
Cold cooked beans, beets, carrots, i)eas, 
and raw celery may be cut into small, uni- 
form pieces. Mix these with salad dress- 
ing, arrange the mixture on lettuce leaves, 
and serve it very cold. 

One teaspoon of chopped onion may be 
added to the salad before putting on the 
dressing. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Put the tomatoes into boiling water for 
a few minutes, peel them, and put them in 
a cold place until ready to serve them. 
Slice them thin, arrange the slices on a bed 
of lettuce leaves, cover each slice with 
mayonnaise dressing, and garnish it with 
sprigs of parsley. Serve it at once. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 
Peel six tomatoes and scoop out the in- 
side. Place the shells on ice to chill. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SALADS 



151 



RECIPE 355. 

2 c. shredded white 

cabbage 
1 e. celery 

1 c. mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing 

RECIPE 256. 

2 c. chopped apples 
2 c. celery 

2 c. boiled dressing 
Chopped walnuts 



RECIPE 357. 

3 bananas 

3 oranges 

J c. grated pine- 
apple 

} c. preserved 
peaches 

1 tbs. lemon juice 

I c. sugar 



Drain the pulp and add to it equal parts of 
celery and cucumber, mixed with mayon- 
naise dressing (No. 249). Refill the 
shells, arrange them on a bed of lettuce 
leaves, and garnish them with sprigs of 
parsley and mayonnaise dressing. 

CABBAGE SALAD 
Wash the cabbage and shred it fine. Let 
it stand in cold salted water one hour; 
scrape the celery and cut it into small 
pieces. Mix the cabbage, celery, and dress- 
ing. Chill the salad in the ice box ; garnish 
it with celery. 

APPLE AND CELERY SALAD 

Wash, pare, and chop red apples. Wash 
and chop celery. Allow equal parts of 
apple, celery, and boiled dressing. Wash, 
chill, and dry lettuce leaves and arrange 
them in cups on a small platter. Fill the 
cups with the mixture ; garnish it with 
boiled dressing and chopped walnuts. 

FRXHT SALAD 

Prepare and slice the bananas, oranges, 
and peaches. Put the slices into a glass 
dish, arranging in layers; sprinkle each 
layer with sugar; add the pineapple and 
lemon jidce. 



Fish, Eqq, and Meat Salads 

RECIPE 358. LOBSTER SALAD 

Wash and dry the lettuce leaves 
and put them on ice. Oi>en a lob- 
ster according to the directions on page 105. 
Cut the lobster meat into one-inch pieces 



Digitized by 



Google 



152 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 259. 
2 c. cold cooked 

salmon 
Lettuce leaves 
1 c. boiled dressing 



RECIPE 260. 

6 medium lettuce 
leaves 

1 doz. sardines 

2 hard-cooked eggs 
2 ts. chopped pickle 
i c. boiled dressing 

RECIPE 261. 
4 hard-cooked eggs 
8 lettuce leaves 
4 radishes 
} c. mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing 

RECIPE 262. 
4 hard-cooked eggs 
8 lettuce leaves 
1 c. boiled dressing 



RECIPE 263. 

2 0. chicken 
1 0. celery 
1} c. mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing 



and season it with boiled or mayonnaise 
dressing. Arrange the lobster on chilled 
lettuce leaves. G^tmish it with small 
lobster claws and dressing. 

SALMON SALAD 

Wash, chill, and dry lettuce leaves. Re- 
move the skin and bones from the salmon 
and flake it into pieces about one inch in 
size. Mix the salmon and half of the salad 
dressing, using a fork and being careful not 
to break up the fish. Arrange the salmon 
on lettuce leaves and put the extra dressing: 
on top. 

SARDINE SALAD 

Wash, dry, and chill the lettuce. Remove 
the bones from the sardines. Chop the 
whites of the eggs and the pickles and mix 
them. Arrange the sardines on the lettuce 
leaves. Add the egg mixture and boiled 
dressing. Crumble the yolks over the top. 

EGG SALAD. I 

Wash, dry, and chill the lettuce leaves. 
Cut the eggs into halves crosswise. Arrange 
the eggs on a bed of crisp lettuce leaves, 
garnish them with the radishes, cut into 
fancy shapes, and put the dressing on top. 

EGG SALAD. U 

Wash, dry, and chill the lettuce leaves. 
Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs ; 
chop the white fine, arrange it on lettuce 
leaves, and pour the dressing over it. 
Force the yolks through a potato rioer over 
the top. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Cut cold cooked chicken or fowl into half- 
inch cubes. Wash the celery and out it 
into pieces of about the same size. Mix the 
chicken and celery with a half cup of salad 



Digitized by 



Google 



INVALID COOKERY 153 

dressing. Arrange the mixture on a salad 
dish, cover it with dressing, and garnish it 
with celery tips. 

Invalid Cookery 

Importance. — Food for the sick is a matter of great im- 
portance, as in many many cases a patient's recovery de- 
pends on the kind, the quality, and the quantity of food 
furnished during illness. 

The appetite of those who are sick is poor. And generally 
speaking, a sick patient has no desire for food unless it is 
selected to his liking, cooked well, served attractively, and 
served in small quantities. So the skillful housekeeper must 
be able to know what kinds of food are good for invalids, and 
she must know how to prepare and serve it in such a way 
that the invalid will desire to eat it. 

Diet for the sick is classified as liquids, semi-solids, and 
convalescent foods. Liquid diet consists entirely of liquid 
food, such as milk, beef tea, beef juice, strained broth, strained 
gruel, and cooling drinks. These are given during severe 
illnesses. 

Tea, coffee, and other stimulants should be given only when 
the physician consents to their use by the invalid. 

Semisolids are given in less severe illness, or when *a 
patient is beginning to improve. This diet includes every- 
thing in liquid diet and also the following : — 



Apple sauce, 


Nos. 9-11. 


Baked apples, 


No. 8. 


Baked custard, 


No. 96. 


Baked rice, 


No. 57. 


Caramel junket, 


No. 66. 


Cereals, 


Nos. 61-54, 


Creamed oysters, 


No. 161. 



Digitized by 



Google 



154 



SECOND YEAR 




Gelatin dishes, 


Nos. 132-136. 


Goldenrod eggs, 


No. 94. 


Ice creams, 


Nos. 300-305. 


Junket, 


No. 65. 


Milk toast. 


No. 36. 


Mutton broth, 


No. 100. 


Oyster stew 


No. 158. 


Raw oysters. 




Rhubarb sauce. 


No. 12. 


Scalloped oysters. 


No. 157. 


Sherbets, 


Nos. 296-298. 


Soft-cooked eggs, 


Nos. 45, 86, 87. 


Soft custard. 


No. 96. 


Soups, 




Steamed rice, 


No. 56.. 


Stewed prunes, 


No. 16. 



Convalescent Diet, — Convalescent diet includes all easily 
digested foods. Even small quantities of foods difficult of 
digestion should be avoided. 

Preparation and Serving. — All foods for the sick should 
be carefully cooked. Hot foods should be served very hot. 
Cold foods should be served very cold. It is necessary also 
that the food be served punctually at exactly such intervals 
as the physician advises. The housekeeper should make 
a study of making the invalid tray appear dainty and attrac- 
tive. The dishes and tray linen should be the best in the 
house. A single flower or even a cluster of leaves will often 
make the tray attractive. If the contents of the tray can be 
gent into the sick room as a surprise, the appetite of the pa- 
tient is often tempted when he would not feel like eating 
what he had been expecting to see. All food should be sea- 
soned to the invalid's taste before presenting the tray to 
him. It should be removed from the room and from sight 
as soon as the patient has finished with it. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INVALID COOKERY 



155 



RECIPE 264. 

1 lemon (juice) 

1 c. boiling water 

2 tbs. sugar 

1 thin slice lemon 



RECIPE 265. 



RECIPE 266. 

i c. grated pine- 
apple 
Juice 1 lemon 
2 tbs. sugar 
J c. boiling water 
f c. very cold water 

RECIPE 267. 
1 orange (juice) 
1 ts. lemon juice 
li tbs. sugar 

1 c. boiling water 

RECIPE 268. 

2 tbs. Irish moss 
2i c. boiling water 
4 tbs. lemon juice 
Sugar to taste 



RECIPE 269. 

1 tbs. whole flaxseed 
2i c. cold water 
4 tbs. lemon juice 
Sugar to taste 



LEMONADE 

Wash the lemon, cut a very thin slice 
from the center, and remove the seeds. 
Squeeze the juice from the lemon into a 
bowl, add the sugar and the boiling water ; 
cover it and set it on ice to cool. Strain 
it into a glass and put the slice of lemon on 
top. 

EFFERVESCENT DRINK 

Add to above recipe } ts. soda free 
from lumps. Stir it into the lemonade and 
drink it while it is foaming. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

Mix the pineapple, lemon juice, and sugar ; 
pour on the boiling water, and let it stand 
about fifteen minutes, or until it is cool. 
Add the cold water ; strain it into a glass. 



ORANGEADE 

Follow the directions in No. 264. 



nasH'Moss lemonade 

Pick over the moss, wash it, and allow 
it to soak in cold water about twenty 
minutes. Put the moss and the boiling 
water into the upper part of a double 
boiler and cook it until the mixture is like 
sirup. Strain it and add the sugar and 
lemon juice. Serve it hot. 

FLAXSEED TEA 

Wash the flaxseed thoroughly, put it 

into the cold water in a saucepan, and 

simmer it three quarters of an hour. 

Strain it, and if it is too thick, add boiling 



Digitized by 



Google 



156 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 270. 

4 tbs. grape jelly 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
} c. boiling water 
Sugar to taste 

RECIPE 271. 
1 stalk rhubarb 
1 c. boiling water 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
Sugar to taste 

RECIPE 272. 
1 sour apple 
1 tbs. sugar 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
1 c. boiling water 



water. Add the lemon juice and sugar. 
Serve it hot. 

GRAPE WATER 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water 
and allow the water to cool. Add the 
lemon juice and sugar. Serve it ice cold. 

RHUBARB WATER 

Wash and wipe the rhubarb and cut it 
into thin slices, leaving the skin on. Add 
the boiling water and about 1 tbs. sugar. 
Cover it and let it stand until it is cold. 
Strain it. Add the lemon juice. 

APPLE WATER 
Wash the apple and without paring it 
cut it into thin slices. Add the boiling 
water and sugar. Cover it, and let it 
stand until it is cold ; then strain it ; add the 
lemon juice. Serve it cold. 



RECIPE 273. 

1 qt. milk 

2 tbs. sugar 
J yeast cake 

softened in 2 tbs. 
lukewarm water 



See No. 83. 



EGG NOG 



BEEF TEA 



See No. 101. 

PASTEURIZED MILK 

See page 59. 

KOUMISS 
Heat the milk until it is lukewarm. Add 
the sugar and stir it until it is dissolved. 
Add the yeast cake and the lukewarm water 
to the nm'lk mixture. Fill sterile patent 
bottles to the neck. Place them in an up- 
right position in a warm (75° F.) place for 
twelve hours. Then invert them and set 
them in a cold place. When they are needed, 
open them carefully to prevent loss of the 
liquid. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INVALID COOKERY 



157 



RECIPE 274. 

1 c. hot milk 
1} tbs. sugar 

2 tbs. lemon juice 



RECIPE 275. 
2 tbs. rice 
4 c. boiling water 
i stick cinnamon 
Salt and sugar 
Milk 

RECIPE 276. 

1 C. milk 

1 tbs. flour 
1 doz. raisins 
Spk. salt 



RECIPE 277. 

1 tbs. barley flour 

2 c. hot^milk 
Salt 



RECIPE 278. 

1 tbs. Indian meal 
i tbs. flour 

} c. cold water 

2 0. boiling water 
i ts. salt 

Milk or cream 



Koumiss should not be used after it is 
three days old. 

LEMON WHEY 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Add 
the lemon juice. Cook it without stirring 
it until the whey separates. Strain it 
through cheesecloth. Add the sugar and 
serve it hot or cold. 

RICE WATER 
Pick over the rice and wash it ; add the 
boiling water and the cinnamon; cook it 
imtil the rice is thoroughly soft. Strain it, 
season it with salt and sugar (if liked), and 
dilute it with hot milk. 

FLOUR GRUEL 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with a 
little cold milk to take out any lumps. 
Pour it into the hot milk and cook it over 
the fire for three minutes, stirring it con- 
stantly; then put it into a double boiler. 
Wash and stone the raisins, add them to 
the flour mixture, and cook it one half hour. 
Strain it and season with salt. 

BARLEY GRUEL 

Scald the milk. 

Mix the barley flour with a little cold 
milk and stir it into the scalded milk. Cook 
it in a double boiler one and one half 
hours. Strain it and season it with salt. 

INDIAN-MEAL GRUEL 

Mix the meal, flour, and salt with the 
cold water. Pour on boiling water and cook 
it over the fire for fifteen minutes, stirring 
it constantly. Cook it in a double boiler 
one and one half hours. Strain it and 
dilute it with milk or cream. 



Digitized by 



Google 



158 SECOND YEAR 

RECIPE 279. ^ OATMEAL GRUEL 

} c. oatmeal and Roll the oatmeal on a board with a 

cold water rolling pin until it is mealy ; then put it 

into a tumbler and fill the tumbler with 
cold water. Stir it; allow the meal to 
settle, and pour off the mealy water into a 
saucepan. Repeat this process as long as 
the water looks mealy. Set the saucepan 
where the gruel will simmer for one and a 
half hours. Strain it, season it with salt. 
Thin it with cream or milk, and serve it hot. 

Invalid Cookery Applied. — You have several recipes for 
making attractive and wholesome dishes for invalids. Your 
teacher will now see if you are able to apply what has been 
taught you. She will ask each girl in the class to prepare at 
home a menu telling what she would serve on a hot day for 
an invalid's breakfast, dinner, and supper. When writing 
out the menu, you will also tell your teacher what you 
would do to make the tray attractive. 

She may ask you also to follow out the same direction for 
a menu to serve on a cold day. When you bring in your 
menus, the teacher will select the best and have it cooked and 
served in class. 

Sandwiches 

It is often necessary to prepare sandwiches ahead of time. 
In this case they should be wrapped in paraflSn paper or in a 
slightly damp cloth to keep them fresh. 

Bread about 24 hours old is best for sandwiches. The 
crust should be removed after the sandwich is made. 

Sandwiches are daintier when served small or in fancy 
shapes, and if the butter is creamed before it is used, it will 
spread more evenly. 

For sandwich filling cold cooked meats or fish may be 
minced fine and mixed with a little salad dressing ; or thin 



Digiti: 



zed by Google 



SANDWICHES 



159 



slices of cold meat may be used ; or chopped eggs ; or cream 
cheese with nuts ; or olives, or chopped peppers. Acids in 
the form of capers, pickles, or lemon juice are often used for 
flavor in chopped filling. 

Jelly, jams, and marmalades make very nice sweet sand- 
wiches. They may be served at afternoon teas. 



RECIPE 280. BREAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 

Use white, graham, entire wheat, or 
brown bread. Remove the end slice from 
the loaf. Spread the end of the loaf with 
creamed or softened butter. Cut off the 
thinnest slice possible. Repeat until you 
have the number of slices desired. Put two 
slices together, trim off crusts, and cut the 
sandwiches into squares, triangles, oblongs, 
or rounds. 

RECn>E 281. BOSTON BROWN BREAD SANDWICHES 

Butter cold brown bread and cut it into 
thin slices. Spread the slices with cream 
cheese and chopped English walnuts. 

RECIPE 282. SLICED-HAM SANDWICHES 

Slice cold ham as thinly as possible. 
Butter thin slices of bread. Put sliced ham 
between two slices of bread. Press the 
slices together, trim crusts, and cut the 
sandwiches into squares. 

CHOPPED-HAM SANDWICHES 

Mix the ingredients. Cut thin slices of 
bread, and butter them. Spread the meat 
mixture on the buttered bread and press 
two slices together. Trim them and cut 
into triangles. 



RECIPE 283. 

i c. cooked ham 
(chopped fine) 

i ts. chopped capers 

} ts. prepared mus- 
tard 

2 tbs. thick white 
sauce 

Few grains cayenne 



Digitized by 



Google 



160 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 284. 



RECIPE 285. 



RECIPE 286. 

1 hard-cooked egg 
i ts. salt 
Spk. mustard 
Spk. paprika 
1 ts. butter 



RECIPE 287. 

6 sardines 

2 hard-cooked egg 

yolks 
1 tbs. butter 
i ts. lemon juice 
Few grains paprika 

or cayenne 
Few drops onion juice 

RECIPE 288. 



RAW-BEEF SANDWICHES 
Toast thin trimmed slices of bread. 
Butter the toast and keep it hot. Scrape 
raw beef from the bottom of the round, 
season it with salt and pepper, and spread 
it thin on slices of the toast and press two 
slices together. 

These are particularly good for convales- 
cent invalids. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Chop cold boiled chicken, moisten it with 
mayonnaise or boiled dressing; season it 
with salt and pepper. Spread it between 
thin slices of buttered bread. Press the 
slices together, and cut them into squares. 
Minced celery may be added to the chicken. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Mash egg fine with a silyer fork, add the 
seasoning and the butter and mix them in. 
Spread the egg on a thin slice of buttered 
bread, cover it with a second slice, and cut 
them into fancy shapes or triangles. Minced 
ham may be added to the egg mixture. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Remove the skin and bones, mince the 
sardines, and mix in the yolks, butter, and 
seasoning. Cut thin slices of bread, spread 
them with the sardine mixture, and press 
them together in pairs. Trim off the crusts ; 
cut the sandwiches into triangles. 



CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Spread cream cheese on thin slices of 
buttered bread. Put two slices together 
and cut them into triangles. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SANDWICHES 



161 



RECIPE 289. 

i c. cream cheese 
i c. chopped walnuts 
Salt and few grains 
of cayenne 

RECIPE 290. 



RECIPE 291. 



RECIPE 292. 



CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Mix all the ingredients well with a fork. 
Spread the mixture on thin buttered slices 
of whole wheat bread. Press two slices 
together, and cut them into oblongs. 

CHEESE AND OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Spread butter thin crackers with a mixture 
of cream cheese and finely chopped olives 
moistened with mayonnaise dressing. Press 
two crackers well together. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches 
with a little mayonnaise dressing; lay 
between two slices, small, fresh, crisp let- 
tuce leaves which have been thoroughly 
washed, dried, and chilled. Press them 
gently together and trim them even. 

FIG SANDWICHES 

Pill bread and butter sandwiches with 
stewed figs or a mixture of stewed figs and 
dates. 



RECIPE 293. 

i c. minced cooked 

prunes 
i c. chopped figs 
i tbs. lemon juice 



RECIPE 294. 



PRUNE AND FIG SANDWICHES 

Remove the stones from the prunes; 
chop the figs. Mash and mix the prunes, 
figs, and lemon juice, using a silver fork. 
Spread the mixture on thin slices of gra- 
ham or whole wheat bread and press two 
slices together. 

JELLY SANDWICHES 

Spread thin slices of whole wheat bread 
with quince, apple, or currant jelly. Press 
two slices together, and cut them into tri- 
angles. Some people like sugar dredged 
over the outside of these sandwiches. 



Digitized by 



Google 



162 SECOND YEAR 

RECIPE 295. JELLY AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Spread quince jelly on thin slices of whole 
wheat, graham, or white bread, and 
sprinkle them with chopped English wal- 
nuts. Press two slices of bread together 
and cut them into triangles. 

Composition and Cost op Menus 

Pupils who have followed this course up to this point 
are now able to undertake original work in the form of com- 
posing menus. They will find great profit and interest in 
making menus suiting different sets pf conditions. The main 
emphasis of this work, however, should be on planning simple 
nourishing meals, which return the greatest food value for 
the least money. This matter of the relation of expense and 
value is a very important one to the housekeeper. She spends 
most of the money which is earned. 

Girls should at this point make and discuss tables of the 
current cost of different foods. In view of the knowledge 
gained in making these tables, the menus made by the class 
should be discussed and judged on the basis of their cost and 
value. 

In making practical application of the menu which the 
teacher decides gives the most value for money expended, it 
is well to allow a few members of the class to take entire 
responsibility of the preparation and serving, and several 
others the entire responsibility of cleaning the kitchen and 
leaving it in order. Several lessons can be spent most profit- 
ably in repeating the exercise suggested here. 

When it is practicable, the menus should be composed out- 
side of school hours, and notes for discussion should be 
brought by each pupil. 

Some pupils may be able to use such reference books as 
these: "Principles of Cookery,'' Barrows; "Household 



Digitized by 



Google 



FROZEN DESSERTS 163 

Management," Terrill ; " Cost of Living," Ellen H. Richards ; 
"Cost of Foods," Ellen H. Richards; "The Woman Who 
Spends," Bertha J. Richardson; "Practical Dietetics," 
Alida Frances Pattee. 

Frozen Desserts 

Ice Cream. — Near the end of the school year it is advis- 
able to make frozen desserts. Ice creams contain cream, or 
eggs and milk as a substitute for it ; sugar and flavoring are 
needed. 

Water ices are still simpler in their composition, as they 
contain only water, sugar, and fruit juice. 

Food Value. — The ingredients of ice cream render it 
highly nutritious. It is more welcome in hot weather. 
Both ice cream and water ices make a cooling, attractive 
food, which is often excellent for invahds. 

Freezing is accomplished by means of crushed ice and salt. 
The salt and ice combine and form an intensely cold brine 
which freezes the contents of a can immersed in it. 

Proportions of Ice and Salt. — Three parts of cracked ice 
and one of rock salt are used for freezing ice creams. Equal 
parts of ice and salt are used for sherbets and water ices. 

Adjustment of Freezer. — After placing ice in a canvas 
bag and pounding it until the ice is cracked fine, fit the fempty 
can into the socket in the freezer and put in the dasher. Then 
pour the mixture to be frozen into the can, filling it not over 
three quarters full, as the mixture expands in freezing. 

Next put on the cover and adjust the cross bar so that when 
the crank is turned the can revolves. 

Packing. — Fill the space between the can and the pail 
soUd with ice and salt, having ice for the bottom layer. Pack 
the pail a little above the cream in the can, turning the crank 
occasionally to let the ice and salt settle compactly. 

During the freezing, which takes about twenty minutes, 



Digitized by 



Google 



164 



SECOND YEAR 



the crank should be turned steadily for ice creams and 
occasionally for water ices until the mixture becomes stiflF 
enough to make turning difficult. 

Care after Freezing. — To avoid getting salt into the mix- 
ture, wipe the cover of the can carefully before removing it ; 
then f'emove the dasher and scrape the cream from the sides 
of the can and pack it down solid with a long-handled spoon. 
Put a cork into the hole in the cover and fit the cover tight 
on the can. 

Draw ofif the salt water through the hole in the side of the 
pail, repack the pail with ice and salt, and cover the freezer 
with an old blanket. 

Let the cream stand at least one hour before serving it. 



RECIPE 296. 

1 qt. milk 

2 c. sugar 

4 lemons (strained 
juice) 

RECIPE 297. 

2 c. finely shredded 
pineapple 

1 ts. granulated 
gelatin 

i c. cold water 

2 c. boiling water 
2 c. sugar 

2 lemons (strained 
juice) 

RECIPE 298. 

1 c. lemon juice and 

rind of 1 lemon 
4 c. water 
2i c. sugar 



Mix 



MILK SHERBET 

the sugar and lemon juice thor- 



oughly ; pour on the milk slowly and stir it 
constantly while adding it. Put it into a 
freezer can and freeze it. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

Soak the gelatin in cold water, add the 
boiling water and sugar; stir it until the 
gelatin is dissolved, and add the lemon 
juice. Strain the mixture and set it aside 
to cool. When it is cool, add the pineapple 
to the mixture and freeze it. 



LEMON ICE 

Make a sirup of the sugar and water by 
boiling the mixture ten minutes. Add the 
grated rind and let the mixture stand until 
it is cool. Add the lemon juice, strain the 



mixtiure, and freeze it. 



Digitized by 



Google 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



166 



RECIPE 299. 

4 c. water 
2 c. sugar 
2 c. orange juioe 

1 c. lemon juice 
Grated rind of two 

oranges and i 
lemon 

RECIPE 300. 

2 C. nriillr 

2 c. thin cream 

1 c. sugar 

2 tbs. flour 
2 eggs 

1 tbs. vanilla 

RECIPE 301. 

2 c. thick cream and 
2 c. milk, or 

4 c. thin cream 
1 c. sugar 
1 tbs. vanilla 

RECIPE 302. 



RECIPE 303. 
1 qt. thin cream 

1 c. hot water 

2 sq. unsweetened 
chocolate 

1 c. sugar 

1 ts. vanilla 

RECIPE 304. 

2 c. milk 
1 c. heavy cream 
1 c. sugar 



ORANGE ICE 

Make a sirup of the sugar and water by 
boiling the mixture ten minutes. Add the 
fruit juice and grated rind ; mix them in well ; 
cool the mixture, strain it, and freeze it. 



PLAIN ICE CREAM 
Scald the milk. Mix the sugar and flour 
thoroughly, pour on the hot milk, and cook 
it in a double boiler ten minutes, stirring it 
often. Beat the eggs ; pour in the cream, 
vanilla, and the milk. Put the two liquids 
together and freeze the mixture. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 
Mix the cream, milk, sugar, and vanilla. 
Put the mixture into a freezer and freeze 
according to directions (p. 163). 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Omit the vanilla from the above recipe 
and add one box of berries which have been 
hulled, washed, and crushed. Freeze the 
mixture according to the directions on p. 163. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Melt the chocolate, add the hot water, 
and stir the mixture until it is smooth.' 
Pour it into the cream, add the sugar and 
flavoring, and freeze the mixture. 



JUNKET ICE CREAM WITH PEACHES 

Mix the milk, cream, and sugar; heat 
the mixture until it is lukewarm ; dissolve 
the junket tablets in the cold water ; add it 



Digitized by 



Google 



166 SECOND YEAR 

li junket tablets to the cream mixture. Add the flavoring. 

1 tbs. cold water Freeze the mixture. 

1 tbs. vanilla Mash the peaches, and when the cream is 
i c. i>eaches nearly frozen, add the fruit and continue the 

freezing until the mixture is stiff. 

RECIPE 305. FRUIT ICE CREAM 

3 c. canned apricots Place a strainer over a large bowl, mash 

3 lemons (juice) the bananas and apricots into it. Rub the 

3 oranges (juice) fruits through the strainer, using thiB juice 

4 bananas of the lemons and oranges and the cold 
3 c. sugar water to help in the sifting. Add the cream 

2 c. water and and sugar and freeze the mixture. 
2 c. thin cream, or The cream may be omitted. 



2 c. milk 



Preserving Foods 



Variety of Preserved Foods. — You will find it interesting 
to observe lists of preserved foods because they are so great 
in variety and come from so many different countries, and are 
used so much on our tables. What countries furnish foods 
preserved in one way or in another for our Christmas dinners ? 
How many different kinds of preserved food can you count in 
the grocery when you buy provisions? 

Time for Studying Preserving Process. — All preserving 
by a cookery class or by the housekeeper should be done at 
the time of year when the particular food to be preserved 
is abimdant and inexpensive, and when it is at the most per- 
fect state of its development. . Overripe fruits, for example, 
will give less satisfactory preserved results than fruit which 
is perfectly ripe. 

Ways in which Food may be Preserved. — All of the 
following varying methods are used in the preservation of 
foods : — 

Freezing or packing in ice ; for example, poultry and fish. 

Cold storage ; for example, milk, butter, meat, and eggs. 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRESERVING FOODS 167 

Excluding air ; for example, eggs coated with vaseline, or 
covered with silicate of soda, and grapes packed in bran. 

Salting ; for example, meat and fish. 

Drying ; for example, currants, apples, apricots. 

Sugaring ; for example, jam and fruit juices. 

Canning ; for example, vegetables, fruits, and meats. 

Pickling; for example, cuciunbers, onions, and fruits. 

Using antiseptics ; a process which under pure food laws is 
decreasing, as it may be dangerous to the consumer. 

Sterilizing. — Sterilizing is a process mentioned above. It 
means the destroying of all germs. This is done by means 
of heat, and usually by heat at the temperature of boiling 
water. Sterilizing and arranging for the exclusion of germs 
are the real purposes of canning. In this process all utensils 
as well as the food itself must be sterilized. 

Method of Sterilizing. — Wash one large dishpan and a 
large, shallow milk pan, and partially fill both with cold water. 

In the first pan place jars, laying them on their sides, and 
in the second pan covers of jars, spoons, and cups used for 
canning. Allow the water in both pans to boil for ten min- 
utes. This should be done immediately before the jars are 
to be used. 

Canning Fruits. — Canning fruits, in the ordinary sense, 
means the cooking of fruit either in a heavy or thick sirup 
or in a light sirup, putting it into sterile jars, and sealing it at 
once. In canning it is necessary to work quickly so as not 
to allow new germs to collect on the sterilized material. 

Firm and not overripe fruit should be selected and a silver 
knife should always be used for paring. 

Proportions commonly used in Canning Sirups: — 

Heavy sirup — 2 c. sugar to ^ c. water. 

Thick sirup — 1 c. sugar to 1 c. water. 

Light sirup — 1 c. sugar to 2 c. water. 

Boil the sirups ten minutes and skim oflf any scmn. 



Digitized by 



Google 



168 



SECOND YEAR 



The choice of a thick or a thin sirup depends on the kind of 
fruit ; the acid fruits, needing much sugar, call for thick sirup ; 
the milder fruits can be preserved in thin sirup. 

The fruit in all cases should be cooked in the sirup until 
it is tender. 

Filling Jars. — First, provide new rubbers for the jars 
every year. When ready to put the fruit into the jars, slip a 
broad skimmer under the jar and lift it; drain the water 
from the jar, and set it in the milk pan. Dip the rubber 
into boiling water and put it smoothly on the jar. Fill the 
jar to overflowing with the boiling fruit and sirup. Slip a 
spoon handle around inside of the jar in order to allow air 
bubbles to rise to the top and escape, and also to pack the fruit 
solidly. Then put on the cover and fasten it. Place the jar 
on a board, avoiding a cold draft, and let it stand overnight. 

Before putting the jar away, wipe the outside thoroughly 
and label it. Set it in a dark closet, and examine it after one 
week to see if any air bubbles appear. If so, scald the fruit 
again and proceed as before. 



RECIPE 306. 
2i qt. raspberries 
1 qt. currants 
4 c. sugar 



RECIPE 307. 
6 qt. berries 
2 c. sugar 



RASPBERRIES AND CURRANTS 

Pick over the fruit and wash and drain it. 
Put the currants, a few at a time, into the 
preserving kettle, and mash them with a 
wooden masher. Cook them slowly one 
hour, then strain the juice through thick 
cheesecloth. Return the juice to the kettle, 
add the sugar, and cook the sirup slowly 
about twenty-five mmutes. Add the rasi)- 
berries (when the sirup is boiling) one quart 
at a time. Boil the fruit about three min- 
utes, then put it into jars. Repeat the 
process until all the raspberries are cooked. 

BLUEBERRIES 

Pick over the berries and wash and drain 
them. Put the water, berries, and sugar 



Digitized by 



Google 



PRESERVING FOODS 



169 



1 0. water into the preserving kettle and heat them 

slowly. Boil them fifteen minutes. Put 
them into jars. 

RECIPE 308. STRAWBERRIES 

Use equal weights of sugar and straw- 
berries. Put the berries into the preserving 
kettle in layers, sprinkling sugar over each 
layer. Place the kettle on the range and 
heat the fruit and sugar to the boiling point. 
Skim oflF the scum. Boil the fruit twelve 
minutes. Put it into sterilized tumblers or 
small jars. 

RECIPE 309. PEACHES 

Put the peaches into boiling water, and 
let them stand just long enough to soften 
the skin. Remove the skins, cut the fruit 
into halves and take out the stones, or the 
peaches may be put up whole. Cook them 
in sirup until they are tender (for rules for 
sirup, see p. 167). Put the fruit into jars, 

RECIPE 310. PLUMS 

Wash the plums, and prick them to pre- 
vent their bursting; add the plums to 
sirup (p. 167) ; and cook them until they are 
tender (about three minutes). Put them 
into jars. 
RECIPE 311. PEARS 

After washing the i)ears, pare them and 
cut them into halves and remove the cores. 
Put them into cold water. Make a thin 
• sirup (p. 167). 

If working alone, cook only enough i)ears 
to fill one jar at a time. 
RECIPE 312. QUINCES 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core the quinces. 
Put them into preserving kettle and cover 
them with boiling water. Cook them slowly, 
or until they are tender. Make a heavy 



Digitized by 



Google 



170 



SECOND YEAR 



sirup (p. 167). Add the quinces to the 
sirup, a small quantity at a time ; cover the 
kettle and let the quinces cook slowly or 
until they are a dark red color. Put the 
fruit- into jars. If cooked too rapidly, 
quinces will not have the attractive rich, red 
color to be gained by islow cooking. 

RECIPE 313. CRAB APPLE 

Wash the fruit, and remove the blossom 
end. Use heavy sirup (p. 167). Cook the 
fruit in the boiling sirup until it is tender 
(from thirty to forty-five minutes). Put it 
into jars. 



RECIPE 314. 

i pk. pears 

2 lb. brown sugar 

1 oz. stick cinnamon 
Cloves 

2 c. vinegar 



RECIPE 315. 

i pk. peaches 
2 lb. brown sugar 
1 oz. stick cinnamon 

1 tbs. whole cloves 

2 in. piece of ginger 
root 

2 c. vinegar 

RECIPE 316. 
4 c. sugar 
2 tbs. cinnamon 

1 tbs. whole clove 

2 c. vinegar 
Watermelon rind 



Pickling 

SWEET PICKLED PEARS 

Boil the vinegar, sugar, and cinnamon 
together for fifteen minutes. Wash, pare, 
quarter, and core the pears ; put two whole 
cloves into each quarter. Cook a few 
pears at a time, in sirup, until they are 
tender. Put them into jars. 

SPICED PEACHES 

Tie the spices in a cheesecloth bag:. 
Boil the vinegar and sugar together fop 
ten minutes ; add the spices. 

Scald the peaches, peel them, and cook 
them in sirup until they are tender. 

Put them into jars. ^ 

SWEET PICKLED WATERMELON 

Pear the watermelon rind. Cut it into 
two-inch squares and cook it in boiling 
water until it is tender. 

Put the vinegar, sugar, and spices (tied 
in a cheesecloth bag) into a preserving 



Digitized by 



Google 



PICKLING 



171 



RECIPE 3x7. 



RECIPE 318. 

i pk. green tomatoes 
i small cauliflower 

3 small cucumbers 
1 bimch celery 

1 pt. small onions 

2 green x>epx>ers 

2 tbs. mustard seed 
2 tbs. cinnamon 
1 tbs. cloves 
1 tbs. allspice 

1 tbs. i)epi)er 

2 c. salt 

2 qts. vinegar 

RECIPE 319. 
12 ripe tomatoes 

4 red pepx>ers 
(chopped fine) 

6 large onions 
(chopped fine) 

1 c. brown sugar 

2 tbs. cloves 
2 tbs. allspice 

2 tbs. cinnamon 
1 tbs. salt 
} ts. grated nutmeg 
2i c. vinegar 



kettle, boil the mixture ten minutes, and 
then cook it slowly for about two hours, or 
until the sirup is thick. Add the melon 
rind and simmer it about one hour. Put 
it into jars. 

TOMATOES 
Scald tomatoes, remove the skins, and cut 
the tomatoes into quarters. Put them into 
a preserving kettle and heat them slowly ; 
then boil them about fifteen minutes, 
stirring them often, skimming off the scum 
frequently. Put them into jars. 

CHOW CHOW 

Prepare the vegetables and cut them into 
small pieces. Put them into a large pre- 
serving kettle and sprinkle them freely with 
2 c. salt. Let them stand at least twenty- 
hour hours, then drain them. Boil the 
vinegar and spices together for ten minutes ; 
add the vegetables and cook them until 
they are thoroughly soft. This chow chow 
may be kept in a stone jar. 

Note. — Whole spice may be used instead 
of ground spice. 



CHILI SAUCE 

Scald the tomatoes, remove the skins, and 
slice the tomatoes. Chop the peppers and 
onions. Put the vinegar, sugar, and spices 
into a preserving kettle, add the prepared 
vegetables, and cook them slowly from two 
and one half to three hours. Put the chili 
sauce into air-tight jars. 



Digitized by 



Google 



172 ' SECOND YEAR 

RECIPE 330. TOMATO CATCHUP 

12 ripe tomatoes Scald the tomatoes and remove the skins. 

3 green peppers Put all the ingredients into a preserving 

(chopped) kettle and cook them about seven hours, 

3 large onions stirring them often. Strain the catchup 
(chopped) and pour it into sterilized bottles and seal 

2 tbs. ssklt them. 

} c. brown sugar 
2 tbs. cinnamon 
1 tbs. ginger 
1 tbs. mustard 

4 e. vinegar 

Jellies 

Jellies are made of cooked fruit juice and sugar. Equal 
parts of each are generally used. 

Materials for Making. — Fresh fruits, such as cranberries, 
crabapples, quinces, grapes, currants, and underripe black- 
berries, are the fruits whose juices, together with sugar and 
sometunes water, are usually chosen for jelly making. 

Utensils Required. — Agate or porcelain-lined saucepan. 

Silver or wooden spoon. 

Shallow pan for heating sugar. 

Plate for testing. 

Cheesecloth for straming. 

Pitcher for pouring. 

Method of Making. — First prepare the fruit, remembering 
the following facts : — 

All fruit selected should be firm and not overripe. 

Large fruits should be washed and cut into pieces. 

Small fruits should be washed, drained, and stemmed. 

Large fruits require cooking imtil they are soft, in water 
enough to cover them. 

Small watery fruits such as grapes and currants supply all 
water needed. 

In cooking the fruit it is necessary to remember that hard 



Digitized by 



Google 



JELLIES 173 

boiling causes jeUy to crystalline or granulate, and that gentle 
simmering without stirring makes it fine and clear. Then 
these directions should be followed : — 

Heat the fruit slowly until juice flows, stirring or not accord- 
ing to special directions for the fruit used. 

Straining. — Remove the saucepan from the fire and strain 
the juice through a double cheesecloth, or flannel bag. 

Suspend the bag over a dish and allow the juice to drip, 
but do not squeeze the bag. 

The bag may be squeezed at end of dripping process, and 
juice which is squeezed through the bag may be used for mar- 
malade or second-grade jelly ; produced in this way the jelly 
will lack the clearness of first-quality jelly. 

Heating Sugar. — Measure one cup of sugar for every cup 
of fruit juice and place it in a shallow pan in the oven to heat. 
Stir it frequently to prevent its burning. 

Cooking Juice. — Put the strained juice into saucepan and 
boil it about* twenty-five minutes. Skim it carefully with a 
silver spoon. Add an equal quantity of the heated sugar 
and cook the mixture slowly until the sugar is dissolved ; then 
boil it for ten minutes. » 

Trying or Testing Jelly. — Take out a small quantity of 
the sirup with a spoon and pour it upon a cold plate. Set it 
in cool place. If it is suflSciently cooked, the juice will stiffen 
or jeK in a few minutes. Pour the cooked juice into a hot, 
sterilized pitcher. 

Patting into Tumblers. — Pour the juice into sterilized 
tumblers, and when they are cool, cover them with tin covers 
or melted paraflin, or with disks of thick wliite paper one half 
inch larger in diameter than top of ^ass. Wet the pap^ 
disks with a mixture made of beaten white of one egg and 
1 tbs. cold water, and use them as covers, pressing down tbe 
edges to the sides of the ^aas to fasten them. 

Set the tumblers away in a coed, dark place« 



Digitized by 



Google 



174 

RECIPE 331. 

1 qt. cranberries 

2 0. water 
Sugar 



RECIPE aaa. 



SECOND YEAR 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Pick over the berries and wash them ; cook 
them with the water in a preserving kettle 
for ten minutes. Strain the juice through 
cheesecloth. Measure the juice, add one 
half as much heated sugar, and boil the 
mixture for ten minutes longer. Put the 
jelly into sterilized glasses. 

QTHNCE JELLY 

Use parings, cores, and all imperfect 
pieces cut from the fruit used in canning 
quinces. Cut these pieces very fine and 
put them into a preserving kettle. Allow 
one quart of water to every two quarts of 
fruit and parings. Piit the kettle over the 
fire and cook the fruit gently two and one 
half hours. Strain the juice and proceed as 
in general directions for jelly making. 



RECIPE 323. 



GRAPE JELLY 

Acid grapes or grapes imderripe rather 
than very sweet ones are best for this jelly. 
Wild grapes make a delicious jelly. Re- 
move all stems from the grax>es, wash and 
drain the grapes and put them into a pre- 
serving kettle, and crush them with a 
wooden masher. Stir them to prevent 
their burning. Cook them until the seeds 
separate from the pulp. Strain the juice 
through a jelly bag, but do not press it. 
Measure the juice, and add an equal 
quantity of heated sugar to the grape 
juice. Put the mixture into the kettle and 
cook it (stirring it occasionally) and allow 
it to boil about twenty-five minutes. Put 
the jelly into a hot sterilized pitcher and 
from it fill sterile tumblers. Let them 
stand overnight and then cover them. 



Digitized by 



Google 



MARMALADES 175 

Marmalades 

Marmalades are made from the juice and pulp of fruits 
with an equal quantity, or a little less, of sugar, and are 
sometimes called second-quality jelly. 

Suitable Fruits. — Marmalades may be made of grapes, 
quinces, oranges, grape fruit, or peaches. 

Method of Making. — Marmalades require great care in 
cooking as they are apt to stick to the preserving kettle and 
bum on. When large, the fruits should be washed and cut 
into pieces ; when small, they should be washed, drained, and 
stemmed. 

Weigh the fruit and allow as much sugar as yoi' have fruit, 
or if you prefer to have the marmalade less sweet, use f lb. 
of sugar to 1 lb. fruit. 

Next rinse the preserving kettle with cold water that it 
may be somewhat moist on the bottom and sides. 

Put alternate layers of fruit and sugar into the kettle, 
beginning with fruit. 

In cooking the fruit, heat it slowly and stir it frequently in 
order to break the fruit up as much as possible. 

Cook it slowly for about two hours until the mixture is 
thick. 

Put it into sterilized tumblers or small jars ;. cover them 
with tin lids or with waxed paper. 

RECIPE 324. ORANGE MARMALADE 

5 lb. oranges^ Peel the oranges and lemons ; cut the 

3 lemons peel into quarters, cover it with boiling 

5 lb. sugar water, and cook it until it is tender. Drain 

Boiling water the peel and scrape all white peel from it. 

Cut the peel into narrow strips. Slice the 

oranges and lemons, rejecting seeds and 

tough stringy portions. Put the fruit into 

a preserving kettle and cook it about one 



Digitized by 



Google 



176 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 325. 

1 large grapefruit 

2 large navel oranges 
1 lemon 

5 lb. sugar 

18 0. Gold water 



RECIPE 326. 

5 lb. peaches 
5 lb. sugar 

3 lemons (juice) 

4 e. water 



hour in 4 cups of water ; add the peel and 
sugar and cook the mixture slowly about 
two hours, or until the sirup is thick. Put 
the marmalade into sterilized timiblers or 
small jars and cover them. 

ORANGE AND GRAPEFRUIT MAR- 
MALADE 

• Wash the fruit, cut it into very thin 
slices, and cut the slices into narrow strips. 
Use every part of the fruit but the cores 
and seeds. Cover the fruit with the water 
and let it stand twenty-four hours ; boil it 
rapidly uncovered for ten minutes and let 
it stand another twenty-four hours ; bring 
it to the boiling point,, add the sugar and 
boil it two hours, or until the jelly x>oint 
is reached. The cooking should be done 
in a broad, shallow, uncovered .pan. 

PEACH MARMALADE 

Scald the x>eaches and remove the skins. 
Cut the x>eaches into small pieces. Cook 
the fruit and water together slowly for 
about one and a half hours, or until the 
fruit is thoroughly soft. Stir it frequently. 
Rub the cooked fruit through a strainer, 
return it to the kettle, add the sugar and 
lemon juice, and cook it about one half 
hour longer, stirring it occasionally. Put 
it into sterilized glasses. 

Apricot, quince, plum, and prune mar- 
malades may be made in Uke manner. 



Sugar 

It is suggested that lessons on sugar and candy be given dur- 
ing the week preceding Christmas, when sweets will be espe- 
cially useful to children as gifts to their friends. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CANDY MAKING 177 

Sources and Nature of Sugar. — Sugars are widely dis- 
tributed in nature. They are found principally in the juice 
of sugar cane, in the sap of the sugar maple tree, and in sugar 
beets. 

Sugar differs from starch in appearance, in its sweet taste, 
and in being soluble in cold water. Its food value is about the 
same as that of starch, and all starches must be converted 
into sugar before they can be assimilated. 

Sugar is pleasing to the taste, and one of the best heat- 
giving and force-producing foods. That is one reason why 
children who are naturally more active than adults are eager 
for sweets. In moderate quantities it is easily digestible, 
and much more can be digested by people who work in the 
open air than by those who work indoors. 

Kinds. — There are three principal classes of sugar : — 

Cane sugar or sucrose. 

Grape sugar or glucose. 

Milk sugar or lactose. 

Cane sugar, or sucrose, is obtained from sugar cane, beets, 
and the sugar maple. 

Grape sugar, or glucose, is found in abundance in grapes, 
and in smaller quantities in many other fruits. It is only half 
as sweet as cane sugar. 

Milk sugar, or lactose, is obtained from milk. 

Honey contains both cane sugar and grape sugar. 

Products of Sugar Cane. — The juice of the sugar cane is 
made into seven common forms of sweetening. They are 
molasses, sirup, brown sugar, loaf sugar, granulated sugar, 
powdered sugar, and confectioner's sugar. 

Candy Making 

Candy is a useful article of food when eaten at proper 
times and in proper quantities. 



Digitized by 



Google 



178 SECOND YEAR 

One way to avoid an excess in the amount taken is to eat 
it at the close of a meal. When eaten between meals, it spoils 
the appetite for other foods, as well as tempts one to eat too 
much of it. 

Home-made candy is cheaper and purer than that generally 
bought at the stores. Much of the candy bought is made 
from impure sugar and flavorings, and sometimes dangerous 
coloring matter has been found in cheap candy. " 

Candy Makers' Terms. — Candy makers use soft ball, hard 
ballj thread, and the crack to describe sugar at different stages 
in its cooking. 

Soft ball means sugar cooked till a little, dropped into cold 
water and rolled between the fingers, becomes a soft ball. 

Hard ball means sugar cooked till a little, dropped into 
cold water and rolled between the fingers, becomes a hard 
ball. 

Thread means sugar cooked till a drop let fall from a spoon 
spins itself into a fine thread. 

The Crack means sugar cooked till it becomes brittle if 
dropped into cold water. 

Helps to Successful Candy Making. — Before starting to 
make candy have ready all materials and utensils for cooking. 
If nuts are to be used, have them ready also. Have the pans 
buttered. Have cold water ready in which to try the candy. 
After pouring the cooked candy into the pan, do not mar its 
surface by putting the scrapings from the pan on it. 

Habd Candies 

RECIPE 317. PEANUT BRITTLE 

2 0. sugar Put the peanuts into a slightly buttered 

1 c. x>^anuts tin pan and set it on the back of the rang^e. 

(chopi)ed fine) Cook the sugar in an iron frying pan, 

stirring it constantly that it may not bum. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HARD CANDIES 



179 



RECIPE 3a8. 

2 c. molasses 

. 1 c. brown sugar 

3 tbs. butter 
1 tbs. vinegar 



RECIPE 339. 
2 c. sugar 
} o. vinegar 
2 tbs. butter 



RECIPE 330. 

2 c. light brown 

sugar 
i c. molasses 
2 tbs. water 
2 tbs. lemon juice or 

vinegar 
i ts. salt 
2 tbs. butter 

1 ts. vaniUa 

RECIPE 331. 

2 c. granulated 
sugar 

i o. water 

1 ta, lemon juice 



When the sugar is a clear, yellow sirup, 
pour it over the peanuts. 

Cut the candy into squares while it is 
still warm. 



Mix 



MOLASSES CANDT 
the molasses, sugar, and butter 



together ; put the mixtul*e into a saucepan 
and cook it slowly untU the sugar is dis- 
solved. Boil it until it forms a hard ball 
when dropped into cold water. Add the 
vinegar and continue the cooking until the 
mixture will become brittle. Poui^it into 
a buttered pan and mark it off into squares 
while it is warm. 

VINEGAR CANDT 
Mix all the ingredients together in a 
8aucei>an. Stir the mixture over the fire 
until the sugar is dissolved, and occasionally 
afterward. Boil it untU it is brittle when 
tried in cold water. Pour it on a buttered 
plate to cool, and mark it into squares 
while it is warm. 

BUTTER TAFFY 

Boil the first five ingredients together 
until the sirup forms a hard ball in cold 
water. Add the butter and continue the 
cooking imtQ the mixture, when tested, 
becomes brittle. Remove it from the 
fire, add the vanilla, and i)our the taffy 
into a butter^ pan. When it is nearly 
cool, mark it into squares. 

BARLEY SUGAR 

Mix all the ingredients together in a 
saucepan. Put the mixture over the fire 
and boil it without stirring it until the 
sirup begins to turn light yellow, or be- 



Digitized by 



Google 



180 



SECOND YEAR 



comes brittle when dropped into cold water. 
Pour it into a buttered pan, and when it is 
nearly cool, mark it into squares. 

This candy is used to cover fruits and 
nuts, which, when so covered, are called 
glac6 fruits or glac6 nuts. 

Soft Candies 



RECIPE 332. 
3 c. sugar 

J ts. cream of tartar 
i ts.\anilla 
i c. water 



PLAIN FONDANT 

Put the sugar, cream of tartar, and water 
into an agate saucepan and stir the mixture 
thoroughly. Place it on the range and heat 
it slowly to the boiling point. Boil it with- 
out stirring it until the sirup threads, or 
until it forms a soft ball in cold water. 
After the sirup has been boiling a few 
minutes sugar will adhere to sides of the 
saucepan. This should be removed by 
washing it off with a piece of soft cloth 
dipped in cold water. When the fondant 
is cooked, add the vanilla, pour the sirup 
slowly on a large platter, and let it stand 
until it is nearly cool, or until it can be 
handled. Knead it, like bread dough, until 
it is perfectly smooth. Put it into a 
covered jar and let it stand at least twenty- 
four hours before using it. 

Fondant is used in many ways : plain, 
for the centers of chocolate creams and 
bonbons, mixed with coconut, nuts, 
candied cherrids, dates, figs, etc., and as 
frosting for cakes. 

Any other flavoring may be substituted 
for vanilla. 



RECIPE 333. 



CHOCOLATE FONDANT 

Add two squares of grated chocolate to 
the ingredients for plain fondant and cook 
them as in No. 332. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SOFT CANDIES 



181 



RECIPE 334. 



RECIPE 335. 
2 c. maple sugar 
(broken up small) 
1 c. white sugar 
J ts. cream of tartar 
1 c. water 

RECIPE 336. 



RECIPE 337. 



RECIPE 338. 



RECIPE 339. 



RECIPE 340. 



COFFEE FONDANT 

Add strained, strong coffee instead of the 
water used in No. 332. 

MAPLE FONDANT 

Make according to No. 332. 



CRE^M MINTS 

Stir fondant over hot water until it is 
melted. Flavor it with a few drops of oil 
of wintergreen, peppermint, clove, or with 
orange or lemon. Drop the fondant from 
the tip of a teaspoon on oiled paper. 

MAPLE NUT BAR 

Stir maple fondant over hot water until 
it is melted. Add one cup of any kind of 
chopped nut meats. Pour the mixture 
into an oiled pan, let it cool, and cut it 
into bars with a sharp, broad knife. 

CREAMED WALNUTS 
Halve walnuts. Make a small ball of 
white fondant. Press a half walnut on 
each side of the ball and flatten it slightly. 

CREAMED DATES 
Wash the dates thoroughly, dry them and 
remove the stones. Fill the hollow dates 
with small pieces of white fondant. Press 
the dates into shax>e and roll them in fine 
granulated sugar. 

OPERA CARAMELS 

Stir white fondant over hot water until 
it is melted. Add one cup of chopped 
nut meats. Pour the mixture into a pan 
which has been slightly oiled or buttered. 



Digitized by 



Google 



182 



RECIPE 341. 

2 c. light brown 
sugar 

1 0. milk 

2 sq. chocolate 
2 tbs. butter 

i ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 342. 

1 c. brown sugar 
1 c. white sugar 

f C. Tnillf 

3 tbs. butter 

1 c. broken nut 

meats or 
1 c. coconut 
} ts. vanilla 



SECOND YEAR 

When it is nearly cold, cut into it squares 
with a sharp knife. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

Put the sugar, milk, chocolate, and 
butter into a saucepan and mix them well. 
Place the mixture over the fire and heat it 
slowly to the boiling point, and boil it 
slowly (without stirring) until it forms a 
soft ball in cold water. Take it from the 
fire, add the vanilla, place the saucepan in 
a pan of cold water, and beat the fudge 
until it is creamy. Pour it into a buttered 
pan to cool. 

BROWN SUGAR CANDY OR PINOCHE 

Cook according to No. 341. Add the 
nut meats and vanilla. Beat the mixture 
until it is thick, pour it into a buttered 
pan, and when it is nearly cool, cut it into 
squares. 



Digitized by 



Google 



DIGESTIVE PROCESSES 

While we are chewing our food, the first step in digestion 
is taking place. The mouth secretes a fluid called saliva, 
which mixes with the food. The saliva contains a ferment 
which changes the starch in the food to a more soluble sub- 
stance, a kind of sugar. The amount of starch digested in 
the mouth depends upon the length of time we hold the food 
in the mouth, the amount it is chewed, and the manner in 
.which the food has been cooked. 

When the food leaves the mouth, it passes down the food 
pipe into the stomach. Just as soon as the food reaches the 
stomach the walls of the stomach begin to be active. They 
push the food along to the further end, mixing it with another 
digestive juice called the gastric juice. This juice contains 
two ferments which affect only the proteid foods, changing 
them into soluble substances. All the time the food is in the 
stomach it is being mixed with the hydrochloric acid of the 
gastric juice which sterilizes the food and keeps it free from 
bacteria. 

When the food leaves the stomach, it passes into the next 
organ of digestion, the small intestine. Upon entering the 
small intestine it is immediately mixed with the digestive 
juices there. These juices are called the pancreatic juice, 
the intestinal juice, and the bile. The pancreatic juice con- 
tains a ferment which will change starch into sugar ; a fer- 
ment which will make proteids soluble, and another which 
will divide the fats so that they can be absorbed. The in- 
testinal juice contains ferments which act on foods in the same 
way as the pancreatic juice. In this way any starch which 

183 



Digitized by 



Google 



184 SECOND YEAR 

escapes the saliva, or any proteid which escapes the gastric 
juice, can be digested in the intestines. 

The bile is not really a digestive juice, but mixes with the 
food and sterilizes it. All the time the food is in the small 
intestine the latter keeps contracting in a waveUke motion, 
moving the food along the long track of the intestine. 

Nearly all of the food is absorbed through the walls of the 
small intestines. The food which is not absorbed passes 
into the large intestines, where the absorption continues; 
the refuse passes out of the body as waste material. 

USES OF FOOD TO THE HUMAN BODY 

The lining of the intestines is covered with tiny projec- 
tions called viUi. These take the digested food out of the 
intestines and give it to the blood. The blood takes the sol- 
uble carbohydrates • and proteids to the liver. If there is 
more carbohydrate than is needed for the day's use, the excess 
is stored in the liver as animal starch. The rest goes to the 
blood, enters the muscles, and is oxidized to produce energy. 
If we have still an excess, it is stored as fat. 

The proteids leave the liver and pass out into the blood. 
The nitrogen in the proteids is used to replace tissue and to 
build new. If there is more nitrogen than we need, it passes 
from the body, and the remaining elements in the proteids 
are used to produce energy. 

The fats leave the intestine through the villi into a set of 
vessels called the lacteals. These empty into larger vessels 
which carry the fats to one of the large blood vessels in the 
left side of the neck. Here the fats enter the circulation. A 
large part of the fat is oxidized to furnish energy. All of 
our tissues have the power of storing excess fat, which the 
body uses as it has need. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOME NURSING 

The Sick Room. — The sick room should, if possible, have 
a southern exposure, and at least two windows. The farther 
removed it is from the noise of the house and street, the bet- 
ter it will be for the patient. 

When preparing the room for the patient, remove any- 
heavy hangings and all upholstered furniture. All the hang- 
ings of the room should be of washable material. The covers 
for the tables, bureaus, and chairs, etc., should be of white 
linen. The bed should be of iron. The mattress should be 
of hair. Place the bed so that it stands out from the wall 
on all sides, and so that the light from the windows does not 
come directly in the patient's eyes. There should be one 
table beside the bed for the patient's bell, books, etc., and 
one on the other side of the room for the nurse's charts, 
medicines, etc. 

The room should be carefully swept each day. A hard- 
wood floor is the easiest to keep clean. If the floor is bare, 
wrap the broom in a cloth, for this will take up the dust 
with very little noise. If the room is carpeted, sweep it 
with a damp broom. Always dust with a duster which has 
been dampened in some mild antiseptic solution. 

The air in the room must be kept as fresh as the air out- 
side. This can be done by keeping the windows open slightly 
at both top and bottom, being careful to have plenty of light 
but warm clothing over the patient. Twice each day the 
windows must be opened wide, and the air completely 
changed. Screens should be placed between the bed and 
the windows to prevent draughts coming in contact with the 

185 



Digitized by 



Google 



186 SECOND YEAR 

patient. Do not let the temperature go above 70*^ in the 
daytime or 68® at night. 

Care of the Patient. — One very essential point in the care 
of the patient is the making of the bed. Your school nurse 
will show you the proper method of making a hospital bed, 
and how to change it if the patient is too ill to sit up while 
the bed is being remade. If the patient has long hair, brush 
it and braid it in two braids. The mouth and teeth should 
be kept sweet and clean by brushing and rinsing after eating 
and medicine taking. Keep the patient comfortable by fre- 
quently rearranging the pillows and straightening up the bed. 

The normal temperature of the body is 98°. A tempera- 
ture above or below this indicates that something is wrong 
somewhere. The temperature should be taken twice a day 
with a clinical thermometer. The pulse is also a guide to 
the patient's condition, for it tells the condition of the heart. 
To take the pulse requires practice. Your school nurse will 
show you how to do it and how to become thoroughly 
acquainted with the characteristics of a healthy pulse. The 
average pulse of a man is 60-70 beats per minute, 

of a woman is 65-80 beats per minute, 
of a child is 90-100 beats per minute. 

Your manner towards the patient must be kind and consid- 
erate. In order to care for the patient properly, you must 
take time for rest tod exercise yourself. Dress in some light 
wash material. Do not whisper in the sick room or discuss 
the symptoms of the case with the patient. Do not lean or 
sit' on the bed. Keep all the windows, chairs, doors, etc., 
oiled so that they cannot squeak and annoy the patient. 

First Aid. — One of the chief things to remember in all 
cases of sudden accident where first aid is necessary is self- 
control. If the accident is severe, send for the doctor at 
once, and in the meantime do what you can to make the 
patient comfortable. Many minor cases of accident can be 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOME NURSING 187 

cared for, and serious results prevented by prompt attention 
from a member of the family who understands something of 
the circulation of the blood, infection of woimds, causes and 
treatment of sudden imconsciousness, and antidotes for 
poisons. 

Bleeding. — Blood from an artery is bright red, and flows 
rapidly in spurts. Blood from a capillary is bright red, but 
oozes out slowly. Blood from a vein is dark blue, flowing 
in a steady uniform stream. The quickest method of stop- 
ping the flow of blood is to elevate the part, and apply pres- 
sure above, below, and on, the woimd. Make a compress of 
a clean bandage, and bind it directly on the wound until the 
bleeding stops. In cases of severe bleeding bind a bandage 
tightly above the woimd, stick a pencil or stick through this, 
and turn it until the blood vessel has been closed. This is 
called a tourniquet. Ice causes the artery walls to contract 
and this helps to stop the bleeding. Alum, vinegar, and 
salt all act in the same way, and can be used in an emer- 
gency. 

Nose bleed is a form of bleeding which is sometimes diffi^ 
cult to check. Elevate the chin and the arm on the bleeding 
side, and apply ice to the back of the neck and forehead. 
Snuff up salt ice water, and if all this fails, plug the nose 
with wads of absorbent cotton. 

Infection. — Modem surgery aims at the prevention of in- 
fection by bacteria. An aseptic wound is a wound free from 
bacteria, and an antiseptic is a substance which is used to 
keep the wound surgically clean. Some of the antiseptics 
which are used now are hydrogen dioxide and boric acid. 
One should always keep some good antiseptic in a convenient 
place, with a package of antiseptic gauze and a roll of anti- 
septic bandage. 

In caring for a wound, stop the bleeding first. Then wash 
the wound carefully with an antiseptic solution, and bind on 



Digitized by 



Google 



188 SECOND YEAR 

a compress, made from antiseptic gauze wet with an anti- 
septic solution. 

Bums and Scalds. — Excluding the air will allay the pain 
of a bum or scald. This is best done by covering the bum 
with cloths wet with a paste of baking soda or of boric acid. 

If a bum, however slight, covers one third of the surface 
of the body, particulariy if the patient is a small child, a 
doctor should be called at once, for the shock resulting from 
such a bum may prove fatal, whereas a deep bum, unless 
the nerves and blood vessels are destroyed, may not be so 
serious. When the skin is destroyed, the same caution must 
be taken against infection as in other woimds. 

Sudden Unconsciousness. — Unconsciousness is the loss of 
sensation and voluntary motion. The following mles may 
be followed in any case of unconsciousness : — 

1. Give fresh air. Do not allow crowding around the 
patient. 

2. Loosen the patient's clothing at neck and waist and 
chest. 

3. Lower the patient's head if the face is pale. 

4. Put a pillow under the patient's head if the face is 
flushed. 

5. Wet the patient's face with cold water. 

6. Do not give the patient stimulants unless you are sure 
it is a case of fainting. 

Poisons. — Li most cases of poisoning, the person should 
be made to vomit. This may sometimes be accomplished 
by putting a finger down the throat while an emetic is being 
prepared. An emetic is a mixture of warm water with salt 
or mustard. When taken, it produces the feeling of nausea. 

A physician should be sent for at once. Li the meantime, 
prepare the emetic and find out the antidote for the poison. 
The right antidote will act chemically on the poison and 
produce a harmless compoimd. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOME NURSING 



189 



Poisons may be divided into three classes: corrosives, 
irritants, and narcotics. A corrosive poison begins to bum 
the tissues instantly. An irritant poison enters the tissues, 
producing inflammation. A narcotic poison tends to pro- 
duce unconsciousness. 



CORROSIVE POISONS ANTIDOTES 


Acids 


Some alkali, such as baking soda dis- 


Acetic acid 


solved in a little water. 


Oxalic acid 




Hydrochloric acid 




Carbolic Acid 


Alcohol. 


Alkalies 


Some mild acid, as vinegar or lemon juice, 


AniTnonia 


sweet oil to form an emulsion. 


Potash 




Lime 




IRRITANT POISONS 


ANTIDOTES 


Arsenic 


An emetic of mustard and water. 


Paris green 




Rough on rats 




MeTQury 


White of egg. 


Corrosive sublimate 


Calomel 




Iodine 


Starch paste. 


NARCOTIC POISONS 


ANTIDOTES 


Aconite 


Emetic. 


Alcohol 


Cold applications to the head, heat at the 




feet, smelling salts. 


Chloroform 


Artificial respiration, stimulants. 


Opiiun 


Emetic — strong black coffee. Keep the 


Laudanum 


patient awake. 


Paragoric 




Morphine 





Digitized by 



Google 



HOUSEHOLD SANITATION 

We have in the home two kinds of dust ; visible or dead 
dust, and invisible, or live dust. The live dust consists of 
microscopic plants, yeast, bacteria, and mold. The dead 
dust consists of bits of wood, sand, lint, etc. It can be 
removed by the mechanical means of brooms, brushes, and 
dusters. But the invisible or live dust needs scientific treat- 
ment. It is this dust which causes disease and makes our 
food decay. The disposal of the waste material which at- 
tracts the invisible dust is always a problem, and the house- 
keeper must make a study of it in order to keep the house in 
a sanitary condition. 

Inorganic waste, like ashes, tin cans, and bottles, is useful 
for other purposes and can be readily disposed of or carted 
away to fill in unimproved land. All waste food or garbage, 
if dried, can be burned. In all cities there are laws for the 
disposal of waste material and garbage, which you should 
know and obey. 

The public sewer takes care of the waste water and human 
excreta. If there is not a sanitary disposal of this waste, 
dangerous bacteria develop and reach the body, sometimes 
through flies, mosquitoes, and other pests. Pools of waste 
water are breeding places for mosquitoes. Outside closets, 
if near the source of drinking water, filter through the soil 
and pollute the water. 

The water system of drainage consists of sinks, closets, 
bathtubs, etc., which receive the sewage. These empty into 
a waste pipe, which in turn empties into the soil pipe con- 
nected with the main sewer in the street. Each of these 

190 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOUSEHOLD SANITATION 191 

receptacles is trapped before it enters into another pipe. 
The trap consists of a bend in the pipe. This bend is to 
contain the last water which goes down. It is called the 
water seal, for it prevents sewer air from coming up through 
the pipe. Find the trap in the sink pipe in your school 
kitchen and in the bathroom at home. The soil pipe is 
trapped before it enters the main sewer in the street. 

This system of drainage requires constant care to keep it 
in a sanitary condition. Substances like heavy paper, string, 
hair, grease, matches, fruit skins, and dust should never be 
emptied into any of the drains. They lodge in the trap, 
stick to the sides of the pipes, and cause a great deal of 
trouble in the disposal of soluble waste matter. The trap in 
every sink should be flushed with a solution of hot water and 
washing soda at least once a week, and all traps should be 
occasionally opened and cleaned. Your teacher will show 
you how to do this with the trap in the sink in the school 
kitchen. The bathroom toilet needs a thorough washing 
each day, and once in a while a bleaching with chloride of 
lime. 

Disinfectants. — We cannot keep the house absolutely clean 
with soap and water only. Bacteria need stronger substances 
to kill them. The best-known and most frequently used dis- 
infectants are carbolic acid and solutions with a foundation 
of chloride of lime. A five per cent solution of carbolic acid 
used in generous quantities is always satisfactory. Carbolic 
acid is a poison; the solution should be kept in a special 
place and carefully labeled. The antidote for it is alcohol. 
Dry chloride of lime is used to absorb bad odors and is very 
effective in disinfecting moist material. When using disin- 
fectants, you must remember that, in order to destroy all 
bacteria, the disinfectant must come in contact with the sub- 
stance to be disinfected and must remain there some time. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CARE OF BEDROOMS 

Order of Work. — A girl's bedroom should be her chief 
pride and she should enjoy the care of it. 

Each morning when you get up, turn the bed covers back 
over the foot of the bed. This will soon get to be a habit. 
At least once a week all the covers should be removed and 
allowed to hang out in the sunshine. Before leaving the 
room in the morning, take a survey of it. Hang your night- 
dress out where it will air, put away any clothes that are 
hanging on the chairs. Open the closet doors, draw up the 
shades, and open the windows. 

After breakfast, before you start for school, return to the 
room and put it in order. ^ 

First, wash the toilet articles on the washstand with cold 
water. Dry them on a cloth used especially for this pur- 
pose, and not on a soiled towel. Empty all the water into 
the waste pail. Fill the pitchers with fresh water. Replace 
all the articles where they belong. 

Second, make the bed. Remove all the clothing and turn 
the mattress over from end to end, from side to side. .Put 
on the mattress pad, which should consist of a piece of 
quilted cotton cloth large enough to cover the middle of the 
bed. Next put on the under sheet, right side up, with the 
crease in the middle of the bed. Tuck this in at the head, 
foot, and sides. Over this put the upper sheet, right side 
down, tucking it in at the foot at least twelve inches. Put 
on the blankets with the fold at the foot of the bed, so that 
one of them may be turned back if you should be too warm. 
Your teacher will show you how to miter the comers when 

192 



Digitized by 



Google 



CARE OF BEDROOMS 193 

tucking in the bedclothes so that the bed will stay together 
and look neat and shipshape. Fold the upper sheet down 
over the blankets about nine inches. The spread is put over 
the whole bed. It should hang over the sides and foot far 
enough to hide the mattress and springs. The pillows must 
be smooth and flattened and placed at the head of the bed. 

The bed linen is changed at least once a week, either both 
sheets or simply the lower one. The upper sheet may be 
used the next week for the lower sheet, putting it this time 
right side down also, so that the cleaner side will be up next 
to the body. 

Third, brush up and dust any part of the room that needs 
it. Straighten the toilet articles on the bureau. Partly 
close the windows and draw down the shades to the middle 
of the window frame. Once a week the room must be given 
a thorough cleaning. Cover up the b^d, bureau, and wash- 
stand with old sheets prepared fpr this purpose. Take out 
the rugs ani'sweep the room thoroughly. When the dust 
has settled, remove it with a damp duster and straighten 
the room. 

Necessity for Light and Air. — Many of us are afraid that 
sunshine will fade our carpets and furniture and that fresh 
air will make the house too cold in winter. But there is a 
great necessity for light and air in the house. Direct sun- 
shine kills most bacteria. Therefore our bedrooms should be 
filled with sunshine in the daytime if possible, and with fresh 
air at night while we are asleep. This will make us ready 
for our next day's work after a long night of sleep. 



Digitized by 



Google 



LAUNDERING 

Sorting and Preparing Clothes. — The clothes should be 
taken from the soiled clothes basket or hamper and sorted 
into four piles. Put table linen and slightly soiled towels in 
one pile; body linen, bed linen, handkerchiefs, and soiled 
towels in a second pile ; colored clothing in a third pile, and 
flannels and stockings in a fourth pile. As you sort the 
clothes, look them over, mend any rents and remove any 
stains (see page 16). 

Prepare the water in which the clothes are to be soaked, 
by adding sufficient soap solution to make a suds. If two 
tubs are used, put the contents of the first pile into one tub, 
and the contents of the second pile into the other. Colored 
clothes and flannels should not be soaked. Rub the most 
soiled parts of the garments with soap, fold these parts in 
and put the garments into the tubs, covering the entire mass 
of clothes with warm soapy water. Then cover the tubs and 
let the clothes soak overnight. 

In the morning, rub the clothes on the washboard, or, if 
they are soaking in the washing machine, work the machine 
until all the dirt is loosened. Rinse the clothing thoroughly 
in at least two waters, examining all soiled parts, to be sure 
they are clean. 

Treatment of Water. — Water is the great solvent of dirt. 
Water that is used in the laundry should be clean and soft. 
It should be free from odor or any trace of iron. Most of 
the water supplied to lis by the public water supply is hard, 
due to the lime salts it gets from the earth. Rain water is 
soft. Water can be made soft by boiling it and by adding 
alkalies and soap. The cheapest and best alkalies are wash- 

194 



Digitized by 



Google 



LAUNDBRmG 195 

ing soda, lye, borax, and ammonia. Alkalies, unless used 
very carefully, make holes in the clothes. Your teacher will 
show you how to make the proper solution of alkali to soften 
the water you have to use in your locality. 

Soap is made of fat and lye. It is considered the best 
cleaning agent. Strong soap has alkalies in excess. It should 
be used when the clothes are very dirty and on cotton and 
linen. Mild soap contains a small amount of alkali and 
should be used on fine materials, colored clothes, and flan- 
nels. Soap loosens the dirt and emulsifies the grease in the 
clothes. These are both finally removed by the process of 
washing and rinsing. 

Bluing. — Unless clothes are thoroughly rinsed, they be- 
come yellow. Bluing is used to whiten them and is necessary 
even when clothes are carefully washed and rinsed, if a pure 
white is desired. Bluing is sold in small packages with 
directions for use printed on the wrapper. Dissolve a little 
in a bowl of hot water. Add enough of this to a tub of luke- 
warm water to give the desired blue. Clothes should be 
properly rinsed or the bluing will not have the desired effect. 
Some bluings contain iron, which will turn the clothes yellow 
if they have not been rinsed perfectly clean. 

Starching. — Starch penetrates the fabric and becomes part 
of the cloth, giving it a hard, smooth surface when ironed. 
Starched clothes keep clean longer and are warmer. Borax 
and oily substances added to starch increase the gloss, and 
prevent the starch from sticking to the iron. 



THICK STARCH 


THIN STARCH 


1 c. starch 


I c. starch 


i c. cold water 


J c. cold water 


1 pt. boiling water 


2 qt. boiling water 


1 ts. borax 


1 ts. borax 


i ts. lard 


i ts. lard 




Digitized by v. 



Google 



196 SECOND YEAR 

Mix the cold water and starch together, add the boiling 
water gradually, stirring the starch constantly. Add the 
borax and lard, cook the starch slowly twenty minutes. 
Thick starch may be made and diluted to the desired thin- 
ness. 

RAW STARCH 

J c. starch 
J c. cold water 
1 pt. warm water 

Stir the mixture until it is smooth. Garments that are to 
be very stifif, like shirts, collars, and cufiFs should be starched 
in the thick starch. Petticoats and dresses should be starched 
in thin starch. If the underwear and table linen are to be 
starched at all, they should also be starched in the thin 
starch after the petticoats and dresses. Clothes like shirt 
bosoms, collars, and cuflfs will absorb more raw starch and 
are consequently stiffer. Rub the starch well into the clothes 
and dry them in the sunshine and fresh air. Clothes dried 
in this way are sweet and clean smelling. 

Dampening. — After the clothes are dry, they should be 
taken in from the line and dampened. This should be done 
several hours before they are to be ironed, except in very 
warm weather. Mildew, a form of mold, will grow on the 
clothes at this time if they are folded for many hours before 
they are ironed. Sprinkle the clothes evenly, but do not 
wet them too much. Roll them tightly together so that the 
dampness will penetrate, pack them closely in the clothes 
basket, and cover them with a clean cloth. 

Ironing. — The ironing board should be covered with a 
smooth, clean blanket for padding, and an outside cover of 
cotton cloth tacked tightly over the blanket. The irons 
must be heavy and smooth. First, iron the parts of the 
garment which muss least, and the parts which dry the 



Digitized by 



Google 



LAUNDERING 197 

quickest. Fold the ironed clothes neatly and compactly and 
hang them on the clothes bars imtil they are thoroughly dry. 
Woven undergarments, either cotton or woolen, and stock- 
ings do not need ironing. Sheets and bath towels, if dried 
in the fresh air and folded carefully when taken from the 
line, may be used without ironing. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS 

Whatever the income of the family may be, large or 
small, the careful spending of it is most important. As a 
rule the man is the producer and the woman the spender. 
Only careful training and experience can make us capable 
of spending money wisely. One must decide on a standard 
of living and keep close to that, discriminating between neces- 
sities and luxuries. Satisfy the needs first. A wise shopper 
knows she has only a certain sum to spend and never spends 
more. She has planned, when she goes to the store, what she 
wants, and she insists upon having it. She knows what 
foods supply the greatest energy for the money. She knows 
what materials and colors wear best, the quantity needed, 
and the most reliable stores in her neighborhood. 

In the last few years many investigations have been made, 
and statistics published, on the typical division of the in- 
come. One good method is as follows : — 

Rent — Food — Operating expenses, which include fuel, 
light, repairs, and help — Clothing — Advancement, which 
includes insurance, recreation, charity, church, savings, and 
simdries. 

Ideal Division op the Income for Family op Four 



Income 


Rent 


Food 


Operating 
Expenses 


Clothes 


Advanck- 

KENT 


$ 750.00 
1000.00 
2000.00 


$112.50 
200.00 
400.00 


$300.00 
300.00 
500.00 


$ 90.00 

100.00 
300.00 


$112.50 
150.00 
400.00 


$135.00 
250.00 
400.00 



198 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS 



199 



Thus we see if the income is $750 we can spend 15 per cent 
of the income for rent ; 40 per cent for food ; 12 per cent for 
light, fuel, and repairs ; 15 per cent for clothes ; and 18 per 
cent for insurance, recreation, and savings. 

If the income is $1000 we can spend 20 per cent of the 
income for rent; 30 per cent for food; 10 per cent for 
light, fuel, and repairs; 15 per cent for clothes; and 25 
per cent for insurance, recreation, and saving. 

If the income is $2000 we can spend 25 per cent for 
food; 20 per cent for rent; 15 per cent for light, fuel, 
repairs, and help ; 20 per cent for clothes ; and 20 per cent 
for insurance, recreation, church, savings, charity. 

When the division of the income has been settled upon, 
careful accoimts should be kept so that we may know that 
we are Uving within the stated amounts. There are two 
sides in accoimts — the Credit on the right side, where we 
put all the money we have received. The Debit, on the 
left side, where we make a record of all the money spent. At 
the end of each week the account should be balanced. If we 
have some money left over at the end of the week, it is put on 
the Debit side imder the heading of Balance, so that both 
sides will add up to the same Total. If, on the other hand, 
our debit side adds up the larger, the balance must go on 
the credit side and we are in debt. 

Food Account 



OcroBBB 19 — 


Dr 




OCTTOBBB 19 — 


Cr 




1 


Vegetables 60 Butter 40 


1 


00 


1 Cash on hand 


10 


00 


2 


Meat 76 Cereal 15 




90 








3 


Eggs 40 Grooeries 1.00 


1 


40 








4 


Meat 30 Butter 40 




70 








5 


Groceries 1.26 Vegetables 26 


1 


50 








6 


Meat 60 Vegetables 50 


1 


10 








6 


Milk for week 63 




63 










Balance on hand 


2 


77 












10 


00 




lo 


00 



Digitized by 



Google 



200 



SECOND YEAR 



Have a page in your account book for each division of the 
income and a summary at the end of the book of the amounts 
spent for each division. 

Monthly Summary 





Rent 


Food 


Operat- 

INQ 

Expenses 


Clothing 


Advance- 
ment 


Total 


Oct. 1-7 . . 
Oct. 7-14 . . 
Oct. 14-21 . 
Oct. 21-28 . 


$8 


00 


$7 


23 


$6 


00 


$7 


00 


$7 


00 


$35 


23 


Total for 
Month 



























Digitized by 



Google 



HOUSE FURNISHING 

•By Helen E. Cleaves 

Assistant in Manual Arts, Public Schools, Boston, Mass. 

Home should be a place where we can be comfortable and 
happy. The house and all that helps to furnish it should be 
planned with this idea in mind. Unless a thing contributes 
to our comfort, or our happiness, or both, it is worthless, and 
we cannot afford to give it space, even in the attic or cellar. 

It is our business to be thoughtful about our surroundings ; 
not unpleasantly critical, hurting people's feelings for the 
sake of things, but we should form intelligent opinions about 
the objects in our homes. Far from being indifferent, we 
must either like or dislike everything and know definitely 
the reasons for our feeling. 

Good taste comes as the result of repeatedly choosing be- 
tween good and bad ; changing things in order to make them 
better, paying attention to the things themselves, not to styles 
and prices. 

In judging an article, first ask the common-sense question, 
" What is it for? *' Unless its use is a new one the object 
should speak for itself. A box should look like a box and not 
like a book or a pumpkin. We should not choose dishes 
disguised as vegetables, or electric lights wearing the out- 
grown form of candles, or gas heaters parading in the shape 
of burning logs of wood. Clever and grotesque things may 
give us much amusement, but they should not be combined 
with useful articles at the expense of their usefulness. 

Neither should one material be made to look Uke another. 

201 



Digitized by 



Google 



202 SECOND YEAR 

Why paint a wooden clock frame to look like marble? Let 
wood, metal, glass, each do its own work, and it will satisfy 
us with the charm of its own qualities. 

Next is the important question, " Does this article do its 
work well, does it fulfill its promises? " A sewing machine 
should stitch well, a clock should keep good time, a chair 
should not only look like a chair, but shouM be strong enough 
to support whoever cares to sit in it. It^s shape and proportion 
should be just right to hold a himian being in comfortable 
sitting posture. Every part should be made with this idea 
in mind, for if it fails here, nothing can give it any real value 
as a chair. It may be costly or fashionable, it may be old 
enough to have historic interest, it may be a wedding gift, 
but if it is not good to sit in, it is a poor chair. The work which 
a thing has to do must never be second to any other purpose. 

There is one more important consideration. We enjoy 
beauty wherever we find it and cannot aflford to miss the 
pleasure it gives us. Hence the clock, the chair, and the 
sewing machine should each have every element of beauty 
possible to it. 

Now there are different ways in which a thing may be 
beautiful. There is dignity and strength in the straight, 
vertical lines of support in doors and windows, and quiet 
restfulness in the long horizontal lines of^ yainpcoting and 
moldings. 

Curtains in doors and windows should fit inside the frames 
and hang straight down to the sill as in the illustration. If 
' tied back, they form a tent shape quite out of harmony with 
the oblong space they are supposed to cover. In a doorway 
the curtains should of course reach to the floor, but window 
curtains have no excuse for hanging below the sill, where 
their work of softening the light ceases. 

Oblique lines full of the excitement which belongs to action 
should be avoided in the placing of large things like rugs, 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOUSE FURNISHING 203 

pianos, and bookcases. Chairs and small articles must 
needs be moved about to suit our convenience, but the pictures 
need not hang at angles with the wall by slanting cords or be 
arranged in oblique lines to keep the eye climbing needless 
stairs or sliding down fantastic terraces. Things that are 
supposed to be at rest 
should harmonize with 
the quiet lines of the 
house itself. 

Much could be said 
about beauty of curves 
and refinement of pro- 
portion. The circle is 
a perfect embodiment 
of the three essentials 
of good design, — 
harmony, balance, and 
rhythm. It appears 
at its best horizon- 
tally, as in mats, 
dishes, or designs for 
floors or ceilings. 
Long sweeping curves 
of strength, like the 
stems of goldenrod, 

are best for upright supports or decorations. On a vertical 
surface an oblong is more pleasing than a square. It is ob- 
vious that a door must be high enough for any one to walk 
through, but beyond this a few inches more or less may 
make it beautiful as well as useful. Given a choice, the 
most graceful proportions should be carefully sought. 

Only a few general hints can be given in regard to color. 
Dark colors suggest weight and are better to walk on than 
pink and pale blue, hence the lower part of a room should 



Digitized by 



Google 



204 SECOND YEAR 

be darker than the upper walls and ceiling. If the wood 
work has any natural beauty of grain or color, it may be kept 
as the keynote in the color scheme of the room. White paint 
with dark paper makes the woodwork prominent, and if it is 
fine in structure and proportion, gives a desirable emphasis to 
the architecture of the room. Wall papers and floor cover- 
ings should be quiet backgrounds for people, pictures, and 
furnishings. Startling patterns and gay colors are out of 
place. 

The warm colors, red, of ange, and yellow, are naturally 
brilliant, but when lowered to the rich browns of wood, or 
softened with white, they are delightful for living rooms, 
where an appearance of warmth and comfort is desired. 
Green is very successful for a general scheme, being cool like 
foUage but not cold, as it contains some yellow. Unless a 
room is flooded with sunlight, blue generally seems cold and 
depressing. Red should be used with care, for few people 
have complexions that can compete with even a rich violet 
red backgroimd, and of course scarlet is out of the question. 

This merely suggests the main problems to be considered 
by one who could furnish a home. Each room should be a 
unit, with every line, shape, tone, and color taking its place 
in an orderly scheme. The living room should present an 
appearance of warmth and inviting quiet. Sleeping rooms 
should be light and cool with the simplest of furnishing. 
The kitchen should be light and convenient with as good an 
equipment as a workman would demand in a modem shop. 
Every part of the house should be usable, affording comfort 
and pleasure according to its purpose. 

Such a place may be called a home. It is not the result of a 
hurried purchase of a load of furniture, but comes only with 
years of planning and thoughtful experience. It is worth a 
lifetime of loving study, for the results may be not only a 
work of art but a Uberal education. 



Digitized by 



Google 



BOX OR SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 

Li preparing a luncheon for a school child, three main 
points should be kept in mind, the luncheon should be made 
up of nutritious and easily digested foods ; second, — more 
hearty luncheons should be prepared for a strong, robust child 
than for a quiet, delicate child ; third, — the luncheon should 
be made as attractive as possible by wrapping each article 
by itself in parafl^ paper and packing it carefully. 

Desirable Foods. — Hard-cooked eggs, sandwiches of many 
kinds, crackers, cookies, nuts, home-made candy, sweet 
chocolate, figs, dates, fruit, are all both desirable and appe- 
tizing contributions to a school lunchfeon box. 

Essentials. — Those who prepare box luncheons should 
have on hand the following : light-weight box, parafl^ paper, 
tiny salt box, paper napkin, sanitary drinking cup, small 
spoon. 

Picnic Luncheons. — Picnic lunches may be prepared 
according to above directions, using a box large enough for 
carrying a generous supply of food. Foods with strong 
odors (such as salmon and sardine sandwiches, also bananas) 
which permeate the limch box should not be packed with 
other foods. 

SUGGESTIVE LIST OF INEXPENSIVE BOX LUNCHES 

(1) (2) 

Peanut butter sandwiches $.02 Egg salad sandwiches . $.06 

Jelly sandwiches ... .02 Cake (nut frosting) . .03 

Olives 02 Banana .02 

Orange ^m_ $.11 

$.09 
205 



Digitized by 



Google 



206 



SECOND YEAR 



(3) 

2 meat sandwiches 

(chopped ham) . . . $.05 

2 olives 01 

1 small cup cake ... .01 

1 cup cocoa .02 

$.09 
(5) 

Whole wheat bread and 

butter sandwiches . . $.02 
Orange marmalade . . .01 i 

Ginger snaps 01 

Banana .02 

$.06i 

(7) 

2 slices graham bread and 
butter $.02 

1 hard-cooked egg . . .03 

2 cookies 01 

1 orange .03 

$.09 

(9) 

2 slices bread and butter 
sandwiches .... $.02 

1 small jar of nut salad 
(without lettuce, apple, 

celery) 04 

1 gingerbread gem . . .01 
Few pieces of fudge . . .01 

$.08 

(11) 

Bread and butter sand- 
wiches $.02 

Celery 02 

Orange 03 

Chocolate sponge cake . .02 

$.09 



(4) 

2 orange marmalade 

sandwiches . . . $.03 
1 glass milk 02 

1 apple 02 

6 stuffed dates . . . _j01 

$.08 

(6) 

Cheese and nut sand- 
wiches $.03 

Maple sirup sandwiches .03 
Peanut Cookies . . . .02 

Apple _m^ 

$.09 

(8) 

2 cheese and nut sand- 
wiches $.04 

1 cup custard 03 

4 sweet crackers ... .01 

1 banana .02 

$.10 

(10) 

Raisin bread and butter 

sandwiches .... $.03 

English walnuts . . .01 

Cup of baked custard . .04 

Vanilla cookies . . . .01 

$.09 



(12) 

Chopped-egg sand- 

wiches ..... $.05 

An orange 03 

Vanilla cookies . . . .02 
$.10 



Digitized by 



Google 



BOX OR SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 



207 



(13) 

Graham bread and butter 

sandwiches .... $.02 
Hard-cooked e|g ... .03 

An apple 01 

Gingerbread .01 

$.07 
(15) 

Bread and butter sand- 
wiches $.02 

A baked apple 02 

Gingerbread .01 

$.05 

(17) 

Bread and butter sand- 
wiches $.02 

Stewed prunes 02 

Cup custard 04 

Educator toasterettes . .01 

$.09 



(14) 

Peanut-butter sand- 
wiches $.03 

Mold of blancmange . .02 

Sponge cake 02 

Dates _J^ 

$.09 

(16) 

Cottage-cheese sand- 
wiches $.04 

Sponge cake 02 

An apple 01 

English walnuts . . . .02 
$.09 



BOX LUNCHEONS 
$.05 

1 bread and butter sandwich 

2 cookies 
1 orange 

$.10 

1 cheese sandwich 
1 cup custard 
1 banana 

or 
1 square of sweet chocolate 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 

Deciding what to have for meals is the feature of house- 
keeping which is somewhat commonly thought to be the most 
monotonous. In case decision proves to be a diflScult task, 
it is well to reduce the matter to a system which may be so 
arranged as to work successfully and economically. 

The first essential of a good working system is familiarity 
with what the markets aflford and with the prices of the va- 
rious foods in them. Such knowlpdge can be gained by visits 
to markets, resulting in either clear memory of what available 
foods cost or in a simple check Ust alphabetically arranged 
with the prices of commodities at varied times. 

The second essential is knowledge of the tastes of the indi- 
viduals to be served. 

The third is to make a strong effort to avoid hesitation. 
When a housekeeper allows various possibilities as to what 
she may have for dinner to chase back and forth for hours in 
her mind, she is wasting nervous energy so fast that she must 
in a short time become the natural victim of her bad habit. 
Under such circumstances deciding what to have becomes 
wearing as well as monotonous. 

The first secret of an appetizing bill of fare is well-cooked 
food. Every viand should be as near perfect in taste as the 
housekeeper can 'secure by using raw materials of proper 
quality, and by following her recipe exactly as to amoimt of 
each ingredient, and as to the order and way in which it 
should be added to the other articles used in the recipe. It 
should be assumed that a good cook book never inserts a 
superfluous statement in a recipe. 

The second secret of a good meal is serving at it foods which 
go well together. Many housekeepers provided well-balanced 

208 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 209 

dietaries long before any one had analyzed the food they 
served. K a guidmg instinct on this matter is not possessed 
by a young housekeeper, she can cultivate it to some extent 
by studying proverbial combinations, such as pork and apple 
sauce; chicken or turkey and cranberry sauce; macaroni 
and cheese ; etc. If she wants to secure intelligence which 
will really guide her, she will examine all menus coming within 
easy reach ; among these suggestions made in the newspaper 
are often helpful. From this examination she will notice 
that a successful menu does not combine many foods of the 
same kind. For instance, potatoes, rice, and bread make a 
less appetizing accompaniment for pot roast than do potatoes, 
spinach, and bread. A successful menu maker avoids having 
dishes suflSciently similar to clog. She goes on the principle 
that appetite is encouraged by placing different kinds of 
food before those about to dine. She realizes that it pays the 
restaurant management to furnish horseradish with oysters, 
and sauces of various kinds with meats. Succession or alter- 
nation of foods of different tastes stimulate not only desire 
to take more food, but also activity of digestion. 

It will be interesting and useful for girls in school kitchens 
to compose menus with a view to learning how various attrac- 
tive meals can be served at very low cost. Examples of the 
results of such studies by elementary school girls are given in 
the series of breakfast menus which follow. 

BREAKFAST MENUS PREPARED AND COOKED BY 
PUPILS IN THE BOSTON SCHOOLS 

BREAKFAST MENUS 

Breakfast No. 1, $.55 

Baked apples Rolled oats 

Omelet Baking-i)owder biscuit 

Cocoa 



Digitized by 



Google 



210 SECOND YEAR 



Materiala and Approximate Cost (six people) 

Apples $.07 

Oats 03 

Eggs 20 

Butter 10 

Flour 03 

MUk 10 

Cocoa .02 

Total $.65 



Breakfast No. 2, $.62 

Sliced oranges Rolled oats 

Hamburg steak Baked potatoes 

Baking-powder biscuits Coffee 

Materials and Approximate Cost (six people) 

Oranges $.05 

Steak 20 

Potatoes 08 

Cream 08 

Milk 04 

Butter 10 

Coffee 05 

Rolled oats .05 

Total $.65 



Breakfast for Four People at $.55 or Less 

(1) (2) 

Cereal $.10 1 lb. grapes $.05 

Pork chops 20 Cereal 10 

Baking-powder biscuits and French-fried i)otatoes . .05 

butter 10 Tea or cocoa 10 

Tea or coffee and sugar . .10 Poached eggs 15 

Bread 05 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 



211 



(3) 



(4) 



Grapes $.05 Oatmeal $.05 

Oatmeal 05 8 Eggs 20 



Griddlecakes 20 Baeoa 

Sirup 05 Coffee and sugar 

Coffee 10 Bread .... 

Bread 05 



.10 
.05 
.05 



(6) 

Cocoa $.10 

Bacon 15 

4 eggs 15 

Comcake 10 

Butter . , 05 



(6) 

Bananas and Cream . . $.10 
Bread and butter . . .10 

Brown bread 08 

Baked beans 20 



(7) 

Oranges $.05 

Cereals 05 

Lamb chops 20 

Fried potatoes 05 

RoUs 05 



Tea, cocoa, or coffee 



(8) 



Bananas 

Dropped eggs on fishballs 
(eggs, .10 ; potatoes, 



$.05 



.05, and fish. 
Bread . . 



15) 



.10 Tea, coffee, or cocoa 



.30 
.05 
.10 



(9) 

Cereal $.10 

Hamburg 20 

Comcake 10 

Coffee 10 

Butter 05 



LUNCHEON MENUS 
(1) 



Tomato soup 
Tapioca cream 



Baking-powder bread sticks 
Individual cakes 



Coffee 



Digitized by 



Google 



212 



SECOND YEAR 



Materials and Approximate Cost (six people) 



Tomatoes $.12 

Butter 20 

Tapioca 03 

Eggs .15 

Coffee 08 



Flour $.08 

Sugar 09 

Onions 01 

Baking powder ; . . .02 
Milk 18 



Cream 15 Total 



$1.11 



Roast chicken 
Rolls 



(2) 



Sponge cake 



Duchess potato 
Snow pudding 



Materials and Approximate Cost (Jour people) 



Chicken $.80 

Potatoes 05 

Bread 05 

Gelatin 06 

Sugar 12 



Pork $ .05 

Milk . 18 

Eggs 20 

Baking powder ... .01 

Flour .06 

Total $1.58 



(3) 

Cream cheese on toasted crackers 
Jelly sandwiches 

Frosted cakes 



Cocoa (whipped cream) 
Peaches with cream 



Materials and Approximate Cost (Jour people) 



Cheese $.15 Bread 

Milk 18 Butter 

Crackers 05 Sugar 

Cocoa 05 Flour 

Cream 13 Jelly 

Peaches 15 Baking powder 

Total 



$.05 
.15 
.05 
.03 
.05 
.01 
$1.05 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 



213 



(4) 



Chicken salad 
Pineapple sherbet 



Baking-powder biscuit 
Chocolate cake 



Cocoa (whipped cream) 

MateriaU and Approximate Cost {six people) 

Fowl $1.05 Butter $.20 

Celery 20 Eggs .20 

Lettuce 08 Cocoa .05 

Oil 20 Cream 15 



.05 
.03 



Pineapple 22 Ice 

Lemons 05 Salt 

Sugar 20 Milk 12 

Q^latin 01 Salt, mustard, pepper . .01 

Total $2.82 



(5) 



Tomato bisque 

Crackers 

Steak 

Cream potatoes 

Peas 



Biscuits 
Snow pudding 
Custard sauce 
Sponge cake 
Tea 



MateriaU and Approximate Coat (six people) 

Steak $.55 

Potatoes 05 

Tomatoes 15 

Crackers 05 

Lemons 13 

Peas 18 

Milk 18 

Butter 28 

Eggs .19 

Total $1.76 



(6) 



Tomato soup 
Macaroni 
Fishballs 
Peas 



Cream of tartar biscuits 
Banana jelly 
Jumbles 
Cocoa 



Digitized by 



Google 



214 SECOND YEAR 



Materials and Approximate Cost (six people) 

Tomatoes $.10 

Peas 24 

Butter 26 

Gelatin 07 

Potatoes . . . . , 05 

Cocoa 03 

Lemons 05 

Lard 04 

MUk 08 

Fish 10 

Bananas 05 

Eggs 08 

Onions .01 

Total $1.16 

(7) 

Luncheon for Six — $1.01 

($.18 each) 
. Cream of oarrot soup Chocolate bread pudding 

Potato croquettes Bread sticks 

Peas Grape jelly 

Cabbage salad Rolls 

Hard sauce 

(8) 

LlTNCHEON FOR ElGHT — $1.35 

($.18 each) 

Potato soup Croutons 

Meat pie Celery and nut salad 

Rolls Piccalilli 

Cottage pudding Lemon sauce 

(9) 

Luncheon for Five — $.60 

($.12 each) 
Creamed salt fish Coffee jelly and cream 

Baked potatoes Cake 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 215 

(10) 

Luncheon for Six — $1.50 

($.25 each) 

Tomato soup Bread sticks 

Scalloped fish and potato Salad rolls 

Celery, apples, and orange Plain cake 

salad Russian tea 

(11) 
Luncheon for Ten — $3.50 

Grapefruit Cheese, nut, and olive salad 

with 

Macedoine of fruits Salad rolls 

Chicken timbales, mushroom Coffee mousse 

sauce Cake 

(12) 
Luncheon for Six 
Creamed salmon Mashed potatoes 

Baking-i)owder biscuits Bisctdts 

Tapioca cream Cocoa 

Co8t of Creamed Salmon 

1 can salmon @ $.22 per can $.22 

2 tbs. butter @ .38 per lb. 02i 

1 pt. milk @ .08 per qt .04 

Total $.28J 

Cost of Mashed Potatoes 

1 qt. potatoes @ $.96 per bu $.03 

3 tbs. butter @ .40 per lb 03 J 

i c. milk @ .08 per qt .01 

Total $.071 

Cost of Baking-powder Biscuit 

3 c. flour @ $.04 per lb $.03 

6 ts. baking-powder . . . @ .42 per lb 03 

2 tbs. lard @ .18 per lb OIJ 

li c. millc @ .08 per qt. . . , . . .02 

i lb. butter @ .40 per lb .05 

Total $.141 



Digitized by 



Google 



216 SECOND YEAR 

Cost of Tapioca Cream 

2} tbs. minute tapioca . . @ $.10 per pkg $.01i 

3 o. milk @ .08 per qt. 06 

2 eggs @ .32 per doz. .... .06 

i e. sugar @ .06 per lb Oli 

li ts. vanilla @ .25 per bottle .... .02 

Total $.16i 

Coat of Cocoa 

2 c. milk @ .08 per qt $.04 

i c. sugar @ .06 per lb OOf 

3 tbs. ooooa @ .20 per can .02 

Total $.06i 

Total Coat of Luncheon No. IS 

Creamed salmon $-28} 

Mashed potatoes 071 

Baking-powder biscuits 14f 

Tapioca cream 16} 

Cocoa .06} 

Total cost $.741 

Afternoon Teas 

The serving of afternoon tea is a growing and an agreeable 
custom, and is much practiced in almost all parts of our 
country. This courtesy is observed with one's friends who 
drop in for an afternoon call, and more formal teas are given 
when few or many friends are invited to meet some guest who 
is visiting in the home. 

Teas, cakes, fancy crackers, at times small sandwiches, 
are served at an informal affair, but at a formal tea, where 
many are invited, ices and salads are more often served to the 
guests. 

In planning for a tea of any sort select simple refreshments, 
since good taste dictates simplicity rather than elaborate 
outlay. Dainty service means far more than an elaborate 



Digitized by 



Google 



MENUS 217 

display of food, for it suggests care and devotion on the part 
of the hostess and thereby shows her desire to entertain her 
guests. 

Recipes for tea, cakes, and sandwiches appropriate for 
afternoon teas may be found by consulting the index of this 
book. Fancy crackers may be purchased at the grocers. 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAMP COOKERY 

Cooking Apparatus. — To the enthusiastic camper a camp 
fire may be found satisfactory for cooking one or two meals. 
But for several days' camping out an oil stove is a marked 
addition to comforts in camp life, and a decided relief from 
the constant care and from the exercise of the practiced skill 
required to keep a good camp fire. 

So it may be said that a very important article in a camping 
outfit is a good stove. There are now many excellent oil 
stoves with portable ovens. For outings they seem to give 
greater satisfaction than any other kind of stoves, as they, 
are light themselves and operate with a fuel which is cheap, 
readily obtained, and easily carried. 

A fireless cooker is also an aid and convenience to the 
camper. Food can be prepared and left in the cooker while 
the party are away from camp on tramps. When they return, 
tired and hungry, the meal can be prepared with very little 
labor in a short time. 

Utensils. — Granite-ware utensils are the most desirable 
sort for camp use. They are light, durable, and easily 
cleaned. Tea and coffee pots with lips are more easily 
cleaned and more easily packed than those that have the 
long spouts. 

A large kettle of granite ware is almost indispensable and 
serves many purposes. It can be used for carrying and 
heating water, for dish washing, for boiling meats, and for 
chowders, etc. When moving, it can be made a packing case 
for small articles. 

Dishes. — In general, mugs and plates of white enameled 

218 



Digitized by 



Google 



CAMP COOKERY 219 

ware, on account of their light weight and durability, are to 
be preferred to the ordinary breakable articles of crockery. 

Provisions. — The list of provisions to be taken into a 
camp is influenced by the locality sought and by the people 
of the party. If the camp is remote from a village, it is evi- 
dent that a greater number and variety of provisions must 
be laid in than when a grocery store is within an hour's 
tramp of the tents. If the party is made up of men, there 
may be less call for such delicacies as olives, preserves, and 
pickles than there would be if ladies were in the company. 
But whatever the composition of the party, there are cer- 
tain staples which with a little thought may be prepared 
in several different ways, thus allowing an acceptable and 
varied bill of fare. 

List of Materials for Campers 



Bacon 


Figs 


Baking powder 


Flour 


Beans 


Ginger 


Butter 


Ham 


Ca.nned fruits 


Mustard 


Canned vegetables 


Pepper 


Cereals 


Rice 


Cheese 


Rye meal 


Cocoa 


Salt 


Coffee 


Salt fish 


Com meal 


Sausages 


Dates 


Soap 


Dried beans 


Soda 


Eggs 


Sugar 



Tea 

When buying the above articles, it is well to include the 
purchase of parafl^ candles, kerosene, extra wicks for the 
oil stove, paper napkins, and paper towels. 



Digitized by 



Google 



220 



SECOND YEAR 



Recipes. — By referring to recipes given in previous pages 
campers will find that the foods given in the list below can be 
made easily available, even under the simple conditions 
allowed in camp life. 



Rbcipes 

Cereals 51 

Clam chowder 163 

Fish chowder 142 

Pish, Baked 139 

Fried 140 

Saut^ 141 

Hasty pudding .... 54 

Macaroni 48 



RSCIPBS 

Meats, Boiled . . . 112,113 

Stewed 102. 103 

Broiled .... 104, 105, 106 
Sauted .... 107, 108, 109 

Milk toast 26 

Quick bread 169 

Salads 248-263 

Vegetables 17-31 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HOME MAKER'S DUTY TO HERSELF 

The duties of the average housekeeper who does her own 
work are so many and so varied that it is often hard for her 
to know iust where to begin. She is frequently busy from 
early in the morning until late at night, taking care of chil- 
dren, preparing meals, cleaning, scouring, and many times 
she adds washing and ironing to her other labors. Such a 
woman fibids hardly a moment's leisure during the day, and 
if, after the evening meal is finished, dishes washed, and 
children put to bed, she has a minute to sit down, she must 
take up a piece of mending or sewing. Is it any wonder that 
such women, weary, tired, and overworked, break down? 

A woman in this position often wastes much nervous energy 
by fretting over unaccomplished work. She grows nervous 
and irritable in the useless efifort to get things done which are 
quite beyond her strength. Then, too, when the night comes 
on, the other members of the family do not always return from 
the day's work with a cheery and helpful spirit, but bring home 
with them the perplexities of the workaday world outside. 
But the mother or home maker is expected to be unfailingly 
pleasant, cheerful, and patient, and to smooth out all difficul- 
ties, no matter how worn or tired she may be. 

Now this home maker should not forget that she has a duty 
to herself. She should learn to plan to save strength and 
energy by having cooking utensils near the cooking table, and 
the table near the sink and stove; by sitting down when 
preparing vegetables and other food, and, in pleasant, mild 
weather, by doing such work on the back porch, in the fresh 

221 



Digitized by 



Google 



222 SECOND YEAR 

air ; and if she could leam to take a few minutes' rest during 
each day, by lying or sitting down, if for but five minutes, 
completely relaxing, or, in other words, ** letting go " muscle, 
brain, and nerve, she would find that she would be refreshed 
and strengthened for her work. 

There are to-day many labor and strength saving devices 
for the busy home maker, such as electric or hand power wash- 
ing machines, fireless cookers, vacuum cleaners, bread mixers, 
food choppers, etc. They are investments, not expensive 
luxmies, and an effort should be made by prudent planning 
to get the money together with which to buy them, as they so 
greatly save the strength of the housekeeper. There are so 
many of these things on the market that only a few can be 
mentioned in this book. 

Labor-saving Devices 

A fireless cooker, or hay box, may be easily made at very 
little expense. 

Frame. — One can buy a box at any grocery store for a 
few cents, or an old ice box or old trunk will serve. In 
selecting a box, choose one made of heavy boards so hinges 
and a hasp may be put on firmly and well. The box must be 
considerably longer than the kettle which it is to contain. 

Kettle. — The kettle is the next thing to be considered. A 
large six or eight quart kettle, the shape of a conmion tin 
pail, and having a tightly fitting cover, is best. A small 
agate pail holding one quart may be bought in case one may 
sometimes wish to prepare two things at once, such as stew 
and a steamed pudding, in which case the small pail will 
hold the pudding. 

Packing. — The packing material, known as " insulating 
packing," may be of straw, soft hay, wool, excelsior, news- 
paper, sawdust, or groimd cork, etc. Wool is probably the 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HOME MAKER'S DUTY TO HERSELF 223 

best heat retainer, and may be bought at woolen mills or 
elsewhere for about 38 cents per pound. Being very Ught, 
much goes to the pound. If one cannot get wool, cheap 
cotton batting, or hair such as is used by plasterers, may serve. 

Method of Packing the Box. — To exclude air and avoid 
danger of catching fire, line the box and cover with several 
layers of newspaper or asbestos, putting it on smoothly. Put 
on the bottom of box four or five inches of the insulating 
packing selected for this purpose, covering top layer with a 
sheet of asbestos. Make a cardboard case by sewing to- 
gether three or four thicknesses of cardboard or, better still, 
sheets of asbestos, to fit closely aroimd the kettle or pail. 

Put this case on the packing in the middle of box and pack 
solidly around it until level with the top of case. Make a 
pad or cushion the exact size of box, when completed, and 
fill this well with wool or cotton batting. Have it thick 
enough to come three inches above the top of box, so that the 
cover, in closing, will crush it down. If, after awhile, the pack- 
ing material shrinks so that the spaces are not firmly filled, 
a little more packing may be added. 

After food is put into pail, cover tightly, pack all cracks 
around and on top of pail with newspaper, put on cushion, 
and fasten cover down tightly. 

Suggestions for Successful Use. — A large, rather than 
small quantity, of food is best for a fireless cooker, since a 
large quantity retains the heat longer. There should be 
food enough to nearly fill the pail, as a small quantity in a 
large utensil cools quickly. 

All foods should be boiled 10 to 15 m. before they are put 
into the cooker, and foods in solid form, such as large pieces of 
meat, hams, etc., should be cooked until thoroughly heated 
through, before they are placed in the cooker. 

Allowance for Cooking. — Much depends on kind of cooker, 
— (1) whether solidly or poorly packed, (2) what kinds of 



Digitized by 



Google 



224 SECOND YEAR 

packing axe used, (3) amount of food to be cooked, (4) skill 
in getting food quickly into cooker, etc. 

Suitable Foods for Cooking. — Cereals, stews, soups, beef, 
lamb, mutton, ham, poultry, fish, steamed breads, and pud- 
dings, etc. 

When using a fireless cooker, it is well to have on hand some 
standard cook book which denotes time required for cook- 
ing various dishes in a fireless cooker. 

Vacuum Cleaners. — The electric power vacuum cleaners 
which are available for houses having electricity reduce the 
work of the housekeeper very greatly. By drawing up the 
dust and collecting rather than scattering it, the vacuum pro- 
cess tends to insure the purity of the air in a house, and 
thereby greatly improves its sanitary condition. 

A hand power vacuum cleaner is not expensive. It is of 
course very much more tiring to those who operate it than is 
the electric vacuum machine. But it does not cost so much, 
and it has some marked advantages over the broom and 
dust cloth cleaning ordinarily applied to rooms. 

Bread Mixer. — Every housekeeper having a large family 
to provide for should regard a bread mixer as an essential 
utensil in her kitchen. It is a great time and strength saver, 
and it is a thorough worker. 

The heavily tinned pails which are the bodies of the mixers 
range in dough capacity from two to six loaves. Clamps 
fasten these pails to a table. Each mixer has a curved metal 
rod, the kneader, carried through a flat cross piece to the rotat- 
ing handle. A few turns of this handle will knead the dough 
thoroughly. Thus the hard task of thoroughly kneading 
dough for six loaves may be accomplished at the cost of little 
time and little strength. 

After kneading, the dough may rise in the pail of the mixer. 

Food Choppers. — Food choppers may be so arranged as 
to cause the food placed in them to be cut coarse or Sue or 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE HOME MAKER'S DUTY TO HERSELF 225 

to be pulverized. Such a machine is especially useful in pre- 
paring hamburg steaks, meat or vegetable hash, minced 
meat, chopped pickle, etc. This is again a time and strength 
saver and a boon to the housekeeper of heavy tasks. It is 
so easily cleaned, adjusted, and operated, that once used it 
will seem indispensable. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SCHOOL GARDENS 

The movement in regard to the establishment of school 
gardens is fast becoming a widespread one. A strong argu- 
ment in favor of it can be advanced in its importance in corre- 
lation with the work in Domestic Science. 

The aim of the whole course in Domestic Science is to be of 
definite, practical, and immediate use to the girl who in after 
years is to be the home maker. In order to meet these every- 
day requirements and to acquire an intelligent idea of what 
she is doing, the girl should be taught about the material she 
is using. In what other way can she gain greater intelli- 
gence about some of the material she uses than by having a 
garden in which she can plant her own vegetables, care for 
them, study their growth, and finally have the supreme satis- 
faction of actually cooking her own products? 

In school gardens children may raise vegetables which 
could be provided for the school in no other way. For fre- 
quently the cost of new vegetables makes their use impossible, 
owing to the limited amount of money available. 

The fact that a school garden has been a success will incline 
the girl to plant a home garden which may, in the crowded 
tenement districts, be nothing more than a small window box, 
owing to the limited amount of space. This is a step in the 
right direction and should be encouraged. It is not really 
difficult to raise for the family table vegetables which other- 
wise would be far beyond the family purse. 

There are but a few school kitchens in which a window 
box cannot be successfully managed. Parsley and chives 
can be grown with little trouble. If the boys in the wood- 

226 



Digitized by 



Google 



SCHOOL GARDENS 227 

working classes are encouraged to cooperate in these lines, cold 
frames may be made, and by their aid lettuce, radishes, 
tomatoes, and other vegetables at practically no cost and 
little trouble can be raised. 

Aside from the actual economic side of the question, the 
lively interest of the girls will be aroused and result in 
effects worth the trouble the extra effort may cost the teacher. 
Moreover, the moral gain coming from faithful attendance 
on a garden should not be overlooked. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Angel Cake, Recipe No. 198. 

Apple, Scalloped, and Bread Padding, 

Recipe No. 40. 
Apple and Celery Salad, Recipe No. 

266. 
Apple Cake, Dutch, Recipe No. I9i. 
Apple Dumpling, Baked, Recipe No. 

195. 
Apple Pie, Recipe No. 242. 
Apple Pudding, Steamed, Recipe No. 

224. 
Apple Sauce : 

No. I, Recipe No. 9. 
No. II, Recipe No. 10. 
Baked, Recipe No. 11. 
Apple Tapioca or Sago, Recipe No. 46. 
Apple Water, Recipe No. 272. 
Apples, Baked, Recipe No. 8. 
Apricot Sauce, Recipe No. 229. 

B 

Bacon (see Liver and Bacon). 

Baked Apple Dumpling, Recipe No. 

196 
Baked Apples, Recipe No. 8. 
Baked Apple Sauce, Recipe No. 11. 
Baked Bananas, Recipe No. 14. 
Baked Beans, Boston, Recipe No. 23. 
Baked Bean Soup, Recipe No. 73. 
Baked Crackers, Recipe No. 37. 
Baked Crackers and Cheese, Recipe 

No. 77. 
Baked Custard, Recipe No. 96. 
Baked Fish, Recipe No. 139. 
Baked Macaroni with Cheese, Recipe 

No. 49. 
Baked Potatoes, Recipe No. 17. 
Baked Rhubarb Sauce, Recipe No. 13. 
Faked Rice Pudding, Recipe No. 67. 
Baked Spaghetti and Tomato, Recipe 

No. 60. 



Baking Powder, Recipe for, Recipe 

No. 176. 
Baking Powder Biscuit, Recipe No. 

192. 
Bananas, Baked, Recipe No. 14. 
Barley Gruel, Recipe No. 277. 
Barley Sugar, Recipe No. 331. 
Batter, Fritter, Recipe No. 182. 
Beans, Boston Baked, Recipe No. 23. 
Bean Soup, Recipe No. 73. 
Beef: 

Beef Stew, Recipe No. 102. 

Beef Tea, Recipe No. 101. 

Braised Beef, Recipe No. 110. 

Broiled Meat Cakes, Recipe No. 
105. 

Broiled Steak, Recipe No. 104. 

Browned Hash, Recipe No. 126. 

Brown Sugar Candy, Recipe No. 
342. 

Corned Beef, Recipe No. 114. 

Cottage Pie, Recipe No. 126. 

Dried Beef with White Sauce, 
Recipe No. 128. 

Hamburg Steak, Recipe No. 105. 

Meat Loaf, Recipe No. 111. 

Roast Beef (see Roasting, General 
Index). 

Roast Beef Gravy, Recipe No. 116. 

Sandwiches, Raw Beef, Recipe No. 
284. 

Soup Stock, Recipe No. 98. 
Beets, Boiled, Recipe No. 27. 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, Recipe No. 

192. • 
Bisque, Tomato, Recipe No. 71. 
Blancmange : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 42. 

Corn Starch, Recipe No. 41. 

Fruit Com Starch, Recipe No. 43. 

Irish Moss, Recipe No. 44. 
Blueberries (Canned), Recipe No. 907. 



228 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



229 



Blaeberry MofiBins, Recipe No. 186. 
Blueberry Pudding, Recipe No. 222. 
Boiled Beets, Recipe No. 27. 
Boiled Carrots, Recipe No. 29. 
Boiled Coffee, Recipe No. 3. 
BoUed Dinner, Recipe No. 114. 
Boiled Dressing, Sala4, Recipe No. 260. 
Boiled Fish, Recipe No. 137. 
Boiled Fresh Meat, Recipe No. 112. 
Boiled Frosting, Recipe No. 214. 
Boiled Macaroni, Recipe No. 48. 
Boiled Onions, Recipe No. 31. 
Boiled Parsnips, Recipe No. 30. 
Boiled Potatoes, Recipe No. 19. 
Boiled Rice, Recipe No. 58. 
Boiled Salted or Smoked Meats, Recipe 

No. 113* 
Boiled Turnips, Recipe No. 28. 
Boston Baked Beans, Recipe No. 23. 
Boston Brown Bread, Recipe No. 219. 
Boston Brown Bread Sandwiches, 

Recipe No. 281. 
Braids (Bread), Recipe No. 173. 
Braised Beef, Recipe No. 110. 
Bread, p. 109. 
Bread (Yeast): 

Quick Process, Recipe No. 169. 

Slow Process, Recipe No. 168. 
Bread, Whole Wheat, Recipe No. 170. 
Bread and Butter Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 280. 
Bread Crumbs : 

Di-ied, Recipe No. 32. 

Buttered, Recipe No. 33. 
Bread Crumb Qriddle Cakes, Recipe 

No. 181. 
Bread Pudding and Scalloped Apple, 

Recipe No. 40. 
Bread Pudding: 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 39. 

Plain, Recipe No. 38. 
Bread Sticks, Recipe No. 175. 
Breakfast Cocoa, Recipe No. 6. 
Broiled Fish, Recipe No. 138. 
Broiled Meat Cakes (see Hamburg 

Steak). 
Broiled Steak, Recipe No. 104. 
Broth: 

Mutton, Recipe No. 100. 

Scotch, Recipe No. 99. 



Brown Bread, Boston, Recipe No. 219. 
Browned Hash, Recipe No. 125. 
Brown 8auce for Meats, Recipe No. 

120. 
Brown Sugar Candy (see Pinoche). 
Butter, Recipe No. 76. 
Bucter Balls, Recipe No. 76. 
Butter Cakes, p. 132. 
Butter Taffy, Recipe No. 330. 
Buttered Bread Crumbs, Recipe No. 

33. 
Buttered Cracker Crumbs, Recipe No, 

59. 



Cabbage Salad, Recipe No. 255. 
Cake: 

Angel, Recipe No. 198. 

Cheap Sponge, Recipe No. 196. 

Cocoa, Recipe No. 202. 

Dutch Apple, Recipe No. 194. 

Gold, Recipe No. 204. 

Layer, Recipe No. 205. 

One Egg, Recipe No. 201. 

Plain, Recipe No. 199. 

Short, Recipe No. 193. 

Silver, Recipe No. 203. 

Sponge, Recipe No. 197. 

without Eggs, Recipe No. 200. 
Cakes: 

Cream, Recipe No. 183. 

Meat, Broiled, Recipe No. 105. 
Candy : 

Barley Sugar, Recipe No. 331. 

Caramels, Opera, Recipe No. 340. 

Dates, Creamed, Recipe No. 339. 

Fondant, Chocolate, Recipe No. 333. 

Fondant, Coffee, Recipe No. 334. 

Fondant, Maple, Recipe No. 335. 

Fondant, Plain, Recipe No. 332. 

Fudge, Chocolate, Recipe No. 341. 

Mints, Cream, Recipe No. 336. 

Molasses, Recipe No. 328. 

Nut Bar, Maple, Recipe No. 337. 

Peanut Brittle, Recipe No. 327. 

Pinoche or Brown Sugar Candy, 
Recipe No. 342. 

Taffy, Butter, Recipe No. 330. 

Vinegar, Recipe No. 329. 

Walnuts, Creamed, Recipe No. 338. 



Digitized by 



Google 



230 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Caper Sauce, Recipe No. 117. 
Caramel Frosting, Recipe No. 217. 
Caramel Junket, Recipe No. 66. 
Caramels, Opera, Recipe No. 340. 
Carrots, Boiled, Recipe No. 29. 
Celery and Apple Salad, Recipe No. 

256. 
Celery, Cream of, Soup, Recipe No. 70. 
Cere^ Gtoms, Recipe No. 189. 
Cereals (see also Gruels) : 

Mush, Com Meal, Recipe No. 64. 

Mush, Com Meal, Fried, Recipe 
No. 55. 

Mush, Oatmeal, Recipe No. 53. 

Oats, Rolled, Recipe No. 51. 

Rice (see Rice). 

Wheat, Cream of, Recipe No. 52. 
Cheap Sponge Cake, Recipe No. 196. 
Cheese and Nut Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 289. 
Cheese and Olive Sandwiches, Recipe 
No. 290. 



Baked Crackers and, Recipe No. 77. 

Creamed, Recipe No. 79. 
Cheese Fondue, Recipe No. 80. 
Cheese Sandwiches, Recipes No. 288, 

289, 290. 
Cheese Straws, Recipe No. 81. 
Chicken : 

Roast, Recipe No. 122. 

Stuffing for, Recipe No. 123. 
Chicken Fricassee, Recipe No.' 124. 
Chicken Salad, Recipe No. 263. 
Chicken Sandwiches, Recipe No. 285. 
Chili Sauce, Recipe No. 319. 
Chocolate Blancmange, Recipe No. 

42. 
Chocolate Bread Pudding, Recipe No. 

39. 
Chocolate Cookies, Recipe No. 239. 
Chocolate Cream, Recipe No. 136. 
Chocolate Cream Filling, Recipe No. 

210. 
Chocolate Fondant, Recipe No. 333. 
Chocolate Frosting, Recipe No. 215. 
Chocolate Fudge, Recipe No. 341. 
Chocolate Ice Cream, Recipe No. 303. 
Chocolate Pudding, Steamed, Recipe 
No. 221. 



Chocolate Sauce, Recipe No. 234. 
Chopped Ham Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 283. 
Chops : 

Pan-broiled, Recipe No. 106. 

Pork, Sauted, Recipe No. 107. 
Chow Chow, Recipe No. 318. 
Chowder : 

Clam, Recipe No. 163. 

Fish, Recipe No. 142. 

Lobster, Recipe No. 165. 
Clam Chowder, Recipe No. 163. 
Clams, Steamed, Recipe No. 162. 
Cocoa: 

Breakfast, Recipe No 6. 

Reception, Recipe No. 7. 
Cocoa Cake, Recipe No. 202. 
Coconut Filling, Recipe No. 211. 
Cod Fish, Creamed, Recipe No. 151. 
Cod, Saute'd, Recipe No. 141. 
Coffee : 

Boiled, Recipe No. 3. 

Filtered, Recipe No. 4. 

Iced, Recipe No. 5. 
Coffee Fondant, Recipe No. 334, 
Coffee Jelly, Recipe No. 134. 
Cookies : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 239. 

Molasses, Recipe No. 236. 

Nut, Recipe No. 238. 

Oatmeal, Recipe No. 240. 

Sugar, Recipe No. 237. 
Corn Cake, Recipe No. 187. 
Corn Meal Griddle Cakes, Recipe No. 

'l80. 
Com Meal Muffins, Recipe No. 187. 
Cora Meal Mush, Recipe No. 64. 

Fried, Recipe No. 65. 
Cora Soup, Recipe No. 68. 
Corn Starch, Blancmange, Recipe No. 

41. 
Coraed Beef (see Boiled Dinner). 
Cottage Pie, Recipe No. 126. 
Cottage Pudding, Recipe No. 206. 
Crab-apples (Canned), Recipe No. 313. 
Cracker Crumbs, Buttered, Recipe No. 

69. 
Crackers, Baked, Recipe No. 37. 

with Cheese, Recipe No. 77. 
Cranberry Jelly, Recipe No. 321. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



231 



Cranberry Pie, Recipe No. 244. 
Cranberry Sauce, Recipe No. 15. 
Cream, Chocolate, Recipe No. 136. 

Tapioca, Recipe No. 47. 
Cream Cakes, Recipe No. 183. 
Cream Filling, Recipe No. 209. 
Cream Mints, Recipe No. 336. 
Cream of Celery Soup, Recipe No. 70. 
Cream of Green Pea Soup, Recipe No. 

69. ♦ 

Cream of Wheat, Recipe No. 52. 
Creamed Cheese, Recipe No. 79. 
Creamed Cod Fish, Recipe No. 151. 
Creamed Dates, Recipe No. 339. 
Creamed Fish, Recipe No. 150. 
Creamed Lobster, Recipe No. 164. 
Creamed Oysters, Recipe No. 161. 
Creamed Potatoes, Recipe No. 22. 
Creamed Walnuts, Recipe No. 338. 
Creamy Eggs, Recipe No. 92. 
Creamy Sauce, Recipe No. 228. 
Crescent Rolls, Re<jipe No. 172. 
Croquettes : 

Fish, Recipe No. 155. 

Lobster, Recipe No. 166. 

Meat, Recipe No. 131. 
Croutons, Recipe No. 34. 
Crumbs : 

Bread, Buttered, Recipe No. 33. 

Cracker, Buttered, Recipe No. 59. 
Currants (see Raspberries and Cur- 
rants). 
Custard : 

Baked, Recipe No. 95. 
Soft, Recipe No. 296. 
Steamed, Recipe No. 95. 
Custard Pie, Recipe No. 246. 
Cutlets, Veal, Recipe No. 108. 



Dates, Creamed, Recipe No. 339. 
Desserts (Frozen) : 
Ice Cream : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 303. 

Fruit, Recipe No. 305. 

Junket with Peaches, Recipe 
No. 304. 

Plain, Recipe No. 300. 

Strawberry, Recipe No. 302. 

Vanilla, Recipe No. 301. 



Ices : 

Lemon, Recipe No. 298. 

Orange, Recipe No. 299. 
Sherbet : 

Milk, Recipe No. 296. 

Pineapple, Recipe No. 297. 
Desserts (Hot or Cold) : 

Baked Apples, Recipe No. 8. 
Baked Bananas, Recipe No. 14. 
Blancmange : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 42. 

Corn Starch, Recipe No. 41. 

Fruit Corn Starch, Recipe No. 43. 

Irish Moss, Recipe No. 44. 
Custards : 

Baked, Recipe No. 95. 

Soft, Recipe No. 96. 

Steamed, Recipe No. 95. 
Dutch Apple Cake, Recipe No. 194. 
Gelatin : 

Chocolate Cream, Recipe No. 136. 

Coffee Jelly, Recipe No. 134. 

Lemon Jelly, Recipe No. 132. 

Orange Jelly, Recipe No. 133. 

Snow Pudding, Recipe No. 135. 
Junket : 

Caramel, Recipe No. 66. 

Ice Cream, Recipe No. 304. 

Plain, Recipe No. 65. 
Pies: 

Apple, Recipe No. 242. 

Cranberry, Recipe No. 244. 

Custard, Recipe No. 246. 

Lemon with Two Crusts, Recipe 
No. 243. 

Rhubarb, Recipe No. 247. 

Squash, Recipe No. 245. 
Puddings (see also Pudding 
Sauces) : 

Baked Apple Dumpling, Recipe 
No. 195. 

Blueberry Pudding, Recipe No. 
222. 

Bread and Scalloped Apple, 
Recipe No. 40. 

Bread, Chocolate, Recipe No. 39. 

Bread, Plain, Recipe No. 38. 

Cottage, Recipe No. 206. 

Dutch Apple Cake, Recipe No. 
194. 



Digitized by 



Google 



232 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Mce, Baked, Recipe No. 67. 
Rice, Boiled, Recipe No. 58. 
Rice, Steamed, Recipe No. 56. 
Snow Pudding, Recipe No. 135. 
Steamed Apple Pudding, Recipe 

No. 224. 
Steamed Chocolate Pudding, 

Recipe No. 221. 
Suet Pudding, Recipe No. 220. 
Tapioca, Apple, and Sago, 

Recipe No. 46. 
Tapioca, Cream, Recipe No. 47. 
Tapioca, Peach, Recipe No. 45. 
Whole Wheat, Recipe No. 223. 
Sauces (see also Canned Fruits) : 
Apple Sauce, No. I, Recipe No. 9. 
Apple Sauce, No. II, Recipe No. 

10. 
Apple Sauce, Baked, Recipe No. 

11. 
Cranberry Sauce, Recipe No. 15. 
Rhubarb, Baked, Recipe No. 13. 
Rhubarb, Steamed, Recipe No. 

12. 
Stewed Prunes, Recipe No. 16. 
Short Cake, Recipe No. 193. 
Doughnuts, Recipe No. 235. 
Drawn Butter Sauce (for Fish), Rec- 
ipe No. 146. 
Dried Beef, with White Sauce, Recipe 

No. 128. 
Dried Bread Crumbs, Recipe No. 32. 
Drinks (Hot and Cold) : 

Apple Water, Recipe No. 272. 
Beef Tea, Recipe No. 101. 
Egg Nog, Recipe No. 8a 
Flaxseed Tea, Recipe No. 269. 
Grape Water, Recipe No. 270. 
Gruels: 

Barley, Recipe No. 277. 
Flour, Recipe No. 276. 
Indian Meal, Recipe No. 278. 
Oatmeal, Recipe No. 279. 
Koumiss, Recipe No. 273. 
Lemonade, Recipe No. 264. 
Lemonade, Effervescent, Recipe 

No. 265. 
Lemonade, Egg, Recipe No. 32. 
Lemonade, Irish Moss, Recipe No. 
268. 



Lemonade, Pineapple,^ Recipe No. 
266. 

Lemonade, Plain, Recipe No. 264. 

Lemon Whey, Recipe No. 274. 

Orangeade, Recipe No. 267. 

Pasteurized Milk, p. 63. 

Rhubarb Water, Recipe No. 271. 

Rice Water, Recipe No. 275. 
Dropped Eggs, Recipe No. 89. 
Dumpling, Baked Apple, Recipe No. 

195. 
Dumplings for Stew, Recipe No. 218. 
Dutch Apple Cake, Recipe No. 194. 

E 

Effervescent Lemonade, Recipe No. 
265. 



Creamy Eggs, Recipe No. 92. 
Custard, Baked, Recipe No. 95. 
Custard, Soft, Recipe No. 96. 
. Custard Pie, Recipe No. 246. 
Dropped or Poached Eggs, Recipe 

No. 89. 
Goldenrod Eggs, Recipe No. 94. 
Hard-cooked Eggs, Recipe No. 88. 
Lemonade, Egg, Recipe No. 82. 
Nog, Egg, Recipe No. 83. 
Omelet, Plain, Recipe No. 97. 
Salad, Egg, No. I, Recipe No. 261. 
Salad, Eorg, No. II, Recipe No. 262. 
Sandwiches, Egg, Recipe No. 286. 
Sauce, Egg, for Fish, Recipe No. 

147. 
Scrambled Eggs, Recii>e No. 90. 
Soft-cooked, No. I, Recipe No. 85. 
Soft-cooked, No. II, Recipe No. 86. 
Soft-cooked, No. HI, Recipe No. 87. 
Steamed Eggs, Recipe No. 84. 
Stuffed Eggs, Recipe No. 93. 
Entire Wheat Bread, Recipe No. 170. 



Fig and Prune Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 293. 
Fig Sandwiches, Recipe No. 292. 
Fillings for Cake : 

Chocolate Cream, Recipe No. 210. 

Cocqnut, Recipe No. 211. 

Cream, Recipe No. 209. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



233 



Lemon, Recipe No. 207. 
Orange, Recipe No. 208. 
Filtered CJoffee, Recipe No. 4. 
Fish: 

Baked, Recipe No. 139. 
Boiled, Recipe No li7. 
Broiled, Recipe No. 138. 
Cliowder, Clam, Recipe No. 163. 
Chowder, Fish, Recipe No. 142. 
Chowder, Lobster, Recipe No. 165. 
Clam Chowder, Recipe No. 163. 
Clams, Steamed, Recipe No. 162. 
Fish, Cod, Creamed, Recipe No. 

161. 
Fish, Creamed, Recipe No. 150. 
Fish, Fried, Recipe No. 140. 
Fish Balls, Recipe No. 156. 
Fish Chowder, Recipe No. 142. 
Fish Croquettes, Recipe No. 155. 
Fish Hash', Recipe No. 154. 
Lobster, Creamed, Recipe No. 164. 
Lobster Chowder, Recipe No. 165. 
Lobster Croquettes, Recipe No. 166. 
Lobster Salad, Recipe No. 258. 
Oysters, Creamed, Recipe No. 161. 
Oysters, Fried, Recipe No. 160. 
Oysters, Pan-broiled, Recipe No. 

159. 
Oysters, Scalloped, Recipe No. 157. 
Oyster Stew, Recipe No. 158. 
Salad, Lobster, Recipe No. 258. 
Salad, Salmon, Recipe No. 259. 
Salad, Sardine, Recipe No. 260. 
Sandwiches, Sardines, Recipe No. 

287. 
Sauces for Fish : 

Drawn Butter, Recipe No. 146. 

Egg, Recipe No. 147, 

Tartar, No. I, Recipe No. 148. 

Tartar, No. II, Recipe No. 149. 
Saut^, Recipe No. 141. 
Scalloped, No. I, Recipe No. 152. 
Scalloped, No. II, Recipe No. 153. 
Stuflng for Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 

143. 
Stuffing for Fish, No. 11, Recipe No. 

144. 
Stuffing for Fish, Oyster, Recipe 
No. 145. 
Flaxseed Tea, Recipe No. 269. 



Flour Gruel, Recipe No. 276. 
Foamy Sauce, No. I, Recipe No. 231. 
Foamy Sauce, No. n. Recipe No. 232. 
Fondant : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 333. 

Coffee, Recipe No. 334. 

Maple, Recipe No. 335. 

Plain, Recipe No. 332. 
Fondue, Cheese, Recipe No. 80. 
French Dressing, Salad, Recipe No. 

248. 
Fresh Meat, Boiled, Recipe No. 112. 
Fricassee of Chicken, Recipe No. 124. 
Fried Com Meal Mush, Recipe No. 

55. 
Fried Fish, Recipe No. 140. 
Fried Oysters, Recipe No. 160. 
Fritter Batter, Recipe No. 182. 
Frostings, Boiled, Recipe No. 214. 

Caramel, Recipe No. 217. 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 215. 

Lemon, Recipe No. 216. 

Plain, No. I, Recipe No. 212. 

Plain, No. II, Recipe No. 213. 
Fruit: 

Com Starch Blancmange, Recipe 
No. 43. 

Dates, Creamed, Recipe No. 3^9. 

Drinks, p. 36. 

Ice Cream (see Frozen Desserts). 

Ices (see Frozen Desserts). 

Pies (see Pies). 

Puddings (see Puddings). 

Sandwiches (see Sandwiches). 

Sauces (see Sauces). 
Fruit (Canned) : 

Blueberries, Recipe No. 307. 

Crab Apples, Recipe No. 313. 

Currants with Raspberries, Recipe 
No. 306. 

Peaches, Recipe No. 309. 

Peaches, Spiced, Recipe No. 315. 

Pears, Recipe No. 311. 

Pears, Sweet Pickled, Recipe No. 
314. 

Plums, Recipe No. 310. 

Quinces, Recipe No. 312. 

Raspberries with Currants, Recipe 
No. 306. 

Strawberries, Recipe No. 308. 



Digitized by 



Google 



234 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Watermelon, Sweet Pickled, Recipe 
No. 316. 
Fudge, Chocolate, Recipe No. 341. 



Gelatin : 

Chocolate Cream, Recipe No. 136. 

Cofifee Jelly, Recipe No. 134. 

Lemon Jelly, Recipe No. 132. 

Orange Jelly, Recipe No. 133. 

Snow Pudding, Recipe No. 135. 
Grems, Cereal, Recipe No. 189. 
Giblet Gravy, Recipe No. 119. 
Gingerbread : 

No. I, Recipe No. 190. 

No. II, Recipe No. 191. 
Gold Cake, Recipe No. 204. 
Goldenrod Eggl^, Recipe No. 94. 
Graham Muffins, Recipe No. 188. 
Grapefruit and Orange Marmalade, 

Recipe No. 325. 
Grape Jelly, Recipe No. 323. 
Grape Water, Recipe No. 270. 
Gravy : 

Giblet, Recipe No. 119. 

Roast Beef, Recipe No. 116. 

Roast Meat, Recipe No. 115. 
Green Pea, Cream of, Soup, Recipe 

No. 69. 
Griddle Cakes: 

Bread Crumb, Recipe No. 181. 

Com Meal, Recipe No. 180. 

Sour Milk, Recipe No. 179. 

Sweet Milk, Recipe No. 178. 
Gruel : 

Barley, Recipe No. 277. 

Flour, Recipe No. 276. 

Indian Meal, Recipe No. 278. 

Oatmeal, Recipe No. 279. 



Haddock, Saut^, Recipe No. 141. 
Ham: 

Boiled, Recipe No. 113. 

Sliced, Recipe No. 282. 
Ham Sandwiches, Chopped, Recipe No. 

283. 
Hamburg Steak, Recipe No. 105. 
Hard-cooked Eggs, Recipe No. 88. 
Hard Sauce, Recipe No. 226. 



Hard Soap, Recipe No. 167. 
Hash (see Browned Hash). 
Hash, Fish, Recipe No. 154. 
Hasty Pudding (see Corn Meal Mush), 
Recipe No. 54. 



Ice: 

Lemon, Recipe No. 296. 

Orange, Recipe No. 299. 
Ice Cream: 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 303. 

Fruit, Recipe No. 305. 

Junket, with Peaches, Recipe No. 
304. 

Plain, Recipe No. 300. 

Strawberry, Recipe No. 302. 

Vanilla, Recipe No. 301. 
Iced Coffee, Recipe No. 5.. 
Indian Meal Gruel, Recipe No. 278. 
Irish Moss Blancmange, Recipe No. 44. 
Irish Moss Lemonade, Recipe No. 268. 



Jelly: 

Coffee, Recipe No. 134. 

Cranberry, Recipe No. 321. 

Grape, Recipe No. 323. 

Lemon, Recipe No. 132. 

Orange, Recipe No. 133. 

Quince, Recipe No. 322. 
Jelly and Nut Sandwiches, Recipe No. 

295. 
Jelly Sandwiches, Recipe No. 294. 
Junket : 

Caramel, Recipe No. 66. 

Ice Cream, with Peaches, Recipe 
No. 304. 

Plain, Recipe No. 66. 

K 
Koumiss, Recipe No. 273. 



Lamb: 

Minced, on Toast, Recipe No. 129. 

Roast (see Roasting, General In- 
dex). 

Scalloped, Recipe No. 130. 
Lamb Stew, Recipe No. 103. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



235 



Layer Cake, Recipe No. 206. 
Lemon Filling, Recipe No. 207. 
Lemon Frosting, Recipe No. 216. 
Lemon Ice, Recipe No. 298. 
Lemon Jelly, Recipe No. 132. 
Lemon Pie, Recipe No. 243. 
Lemon Sauce, Recipe No. 227. 
Lemon Whey, Recipe No. 274. 
Lemonade : 

Eflfervescent, Recipe No. 266. 

Egg, Recipe No. 82. 

Irish Moss, Recipe No. 268. 

Pineapple, Recipe No. 264. 
Lettuce Sandwiches, Recipe No. 291. 
Liver and Bacon, Recipe No. 109. 
Lobster, Creamed, Recipe No. 164. 
Lobster Chowder, Recipe No. 165. 
Lobster Croquettes, Recipe No. 166. 
Lobster Salad, Recipe No. 258. 



Macaroni : 

Baked, with Cheese, Recipe No, 49. 
Boiled, Recipe No. 48. 
Maple Fondant, Recipe No. 335. 
Maple Nut Bar, Recipe No. 337. 
Marmalade : 

Orange, Recipe No. 324. 

Orange and Grapefruit, Recipe 

No. 325. 
Peach, Recipe No. 326. 
Mashed Potatoes, Recipe No. 21. 
Mayonnaise Dressing, Recipe No. 249. 
Meat: 

Bacon, Saut^ with Liver, Recipe 

No. 109. 
Boiled Meats, Fresh, Recipe No. 112. 
Boiled Meats, Salt, Recipe No. 113. 
Braised Beef, Recipe No. 110. 
Broiled Meat Cakes or Hamburg 

Steak, Recipe No. 105. 
Broiled Steak, Recipe No. 104. 
Browned Hash, Recipe No. 125. 
Chicken, Roast, Recipe No. 122. 
Chicken Fricassee, Recipe No. 124. 
Chops, Pan-broiled, Recipe No. 106. 
Chops, Pork, Sauted, Recipe No. 

107. 
Corned Beef (Boiled Dinner), 
Recipe No. 114. 



Cottage Pie, Recipe No. 126. 
Croquettes, Recipe No. 131. 
Cutlets, Veal, Recipe No. 108. 
Dried Beef with White Sauce, 

Recipe No. 128. 
Gravies and Sauces for (see 

Sauces). 
Liver and Bacon, Recipe No. 109. 
Loaf, Recipe No. 111. 
Minced Lamb on Toast, Recipe No. 

129. 
Roast Meat warmed in Gravy, 
Recipe No. 127. 
» Roast Meats (see Roasting, General 
Index) . 
Sauces for : 

Brown, Recipe No. 120. 
Caper, Recipe No. 117. 
Mint, Recipe No. 118. 
Tomato, Recipe No. 121. 
Scalloped Mutton or Lamb, Rec- 
ipe No. 130. 
Soups (see Broth). 
Stews, Recipes Nos. 102, 103. 
Stuflang for Chicken, Recipe No. 
123. 
Milk: 

Blancmange (see Blancmange). 
Butter, Recipe No. 75. 
Chowders (see Chowder). 
Gruel (see Gruel). , 

Ice Creams (see Frozen Desserts). 
Junket (see Junket) . 
Koumiss, Recipe No. 273. 
Milk Bread, Recipe No. 169. 
Milk Toast, Recipe No. 36. 
Pasteurized Milk, p. 63. 
Sherbets, Recipes Nos. 296, 297. 
Soups (see Soups). 
Whey, Lemon, Recipe No. 274. 
Minced Lamb on Toast, Recipe No. 129. 
Mint Sauce, Recipe No. 118. 
Mints (see Cream Mints). 
Molasses Candy, Recipe No. 328. 
Molasses Cookies, Recipe No. 236. 
Muffins : 

Blueberry, Recipe No. 18" 
Com Meal, Recipe No. 187. 
Graham, Recipe No. 188. 
Plain, Recipe No. 184. 



Digitized by 



Google 



236 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Rye, Recipe No. 188. 

Tea, Recipe No. 186. 
Mush: 

Corn Meal, Recipe No. 54. 

Com Meal, Fried, Recipe No. 55. 

Oatmeal, Recipe No. 53. 
Mutlon : 

Broth, Recipe No. 100. 

Minced on Toast, Recipe No. 129. 

Roast Mutton (see Roasting, Gen- 
eral Index). 

Scalloped Mutton, Recipe No. 130. 

Scotch Broth, Recipe No. 99. 



Nut and Cheese Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 289. 
Nut and Jelly Sandwiches, Recipe No. 

294. 
Nut Bar, Maple, Recipe No. 337. 
Nut Cookies, Recipe No. 238. 



OatmeaT Cookies, Recipe No. 240. 
Oatmeal Gruel, Recipe No. 279. 
Oatmeal Mush, Recipe No. 53. 
Oats, Rolled, Recipe No. 51. 
Olive and Cheese Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 290. 
Omelet, Plain, Recipe No. 97. 
One Egg Cake, Recipe No. 201. 
Onions : 

Boiled, Recipe No. 31. 

Scalloped, Recipe No. 62. 
Opera Caramels, Recipe No. 340. 
Orange and Grapefruit Marmalade, 

Recipe No. 325. 
Orange Filling, Recipe No. 208. 
Orange Ice, Recipe No. 299. 
Orange Jelly, Recipe No. 133. 
Orange Marmalade, Recipe No. 324. 
Orangeade, Recipe No. 267. 
Oysters: 

Creamed, Recipe No. 161. 

Fried, Recipe No. 160. 

Pan-hroiled, Recipe No. 169. 

Scalloped, Recipe No. 157. 
Oyster Stew, Recipe No. 158. 
Oyster Staffing, for Fish, Recipe No. 
146. 



Pan-broiled Chops, Recipe No. 106. 
Pan-broiled Oysters, Recipe No. 159. 
Parker House Rolls, Recipe No. 171. 
Parsnips, Boiled, Recipe No. 30. 
Pasteurized Milk, p. 63. 
Pastry, Plain, Recipe No. 24L 
Pea Soup : 

Green, Cream of, Reeipe No. 69. 

Split, Recipe No. 74. 
Peach Marmalade, Recipe No. 326. 
Peach Tapioca, Recipe No. 45. 
Peaches : 

Canned, Recipe No. 309. 

Spiced, Recipe No. 315. 

with Junket Ice Cream, Recipe 
No. 304. 
Peanut Brittle, Recipe No. 327. 
Pears: 

Canned, Recipe No. 311. 

Sweet Pickled, Recipe No. 314. 
Pickles : 

Chili Sauce, Recipe No. 319. 

Chow Chow, Recipe No. 318. 

Spiced Peaches, Recipe No. 315. 

Sweet Pickled Pears, Recipe No. 
314. 

Sweet Pickled Watermelon, Recipe 
No. 316. 

Tomato .Catchup, Recipe No. 320. 

Tomatoes, Recipe No. 317. 
Pies: 

Apple, Recipe No. 242. 

Cottage, Recipe No. 126. 

Cranberry, Recipe No. 244. 

Custard, Recipe No. 246. 

Lemon with Two Crusts, Recipe 
No. 243. 

Rhubarb, Recipe No. 247. 

Squash, Recipe No. 245. 
Pineapple Lemonade,. Recipe No. 266. 
Pineapple Sherbet, Recipe No. 297. 
Pinoche, Recipe No. 342. 
Plain Cake, Recipe No. 199. 
Plain Fondant, Recipe No. 332. 
Plain Frosting : 

No. I, Recipe No. 212. 

No. II, Recipe No. 91S. 
Plain Ice Cream, Recipe No. 300. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX TO RBCIPBS 



237 



Plain Muffins, Recipe No. 184. 
Plain Omelet, Recipe No. 97. 
Plain Pastry, Recipe No. 241. 
Plain Sauce, Padding, Recipe No. 226. 
Plain Toast, Recipe No. 36. 
Plums, Canned, Recipe No. 310. 
Poached Eggs, Recipe No. 39. 
Polish, Silver, p. 31. 
Pop-overs, Recipe No. 177. 
Pork chops Saut^, Recipe No. 107. 
Pot Roast (see Roasting, Greneral In- 
dex). 
Potato Salad, Recipe No. 261. 
Potato Soup, Recipe No. 67. 
Potatoes : \ 

Baked, Recipe No. 17. 

Boiled, Recipe No. 19. 

Creamed, Recipe No. 22. 

Mashed, Recipe No. 21. 

Riced, Recipe No. 20. 

Scalloped, No. I, Recipe No. 60. 

Scalloped, No. II, Recipe No. 61. 

Stuffed, Recipe No. 18. 
Poultry (see Chicken). 
Prune and Fig Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 293. 
Prunes, Stewed, Recipe No. 16. 
Pudding Sauces: 

Apricot, Recipe No. 229. 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 234. 

Creamy, Recipe No. 228. 

Foamy, No. I, Recipe No. 231. 

Foamy, No. II, Recipe No. 232. 

Hard, Recipe No. 226. 

Lemon, Recipe No. 227. 

Plain, Recipe No. 225. 

Strawberry, Recipe No. 230. 

Yellow, Recipe No. 233. 
Puddings (see Desserts, Hot or Cold). 



Quince Jelly, Recipe No. 322. 
Quinces, Canned, Recipe No. 312. 

R 

Rarebit, Welsh, Recipe No. 78. 
Raspberries and Currants, Canned, 

Recipe No. 306. 
Raw Beef Sandwiches, Recipe No. 284. 



Reception Cocoa, Recipe No. 7. 
Rhubarb Pie, Recipe No. 247. 
Rhubarb Saoce : 

Baked, Recipe No. 13. 

Steamed , Recipe No. 12. 
Rhubarb Water, Recipe No. 271. 
Roast Beef, p. 83. 
Roast Chicken, Recipe No. 122. 
Roast Meat Gravy, Recipe No. 116. 
Roast Meat warmed in Gravy, Recipe 

No. 127. 
Roast Mutton, or Lamb, p. 83. 
Roast Pork, p. 83. 
Rolled Oats, Recipe No. 61. 
Rolls: 

Crescent, Recipe No. 172. 

Parker House, Recipe No. 171. 

Swedish, Recipe No. 174. 
Rice: 

Boiled, Recipe No. 68. 

Steamed, Recipe No. 66. 

with Tomatoes, Scalloped, Recipe 
No. 64. 
Rice Pudding, Baked, Recipe No. 67. 
Rice Water, Recipe No. 275. 
Riced Potatoes, Recipe No. 20. 
Russian Tea, Recipe No. 2. 
Rye Muffins, Recipe No. 188. 



Sago, Apple (see Apple Tapioca). 
Salad: 

Apple and Celery, Recipe No. 266. 

Cabbage, Recipe No. 265. 

Chicken, Recipe No. 263. 

Egg, No. I, Recipe No. 261. 

Egg, No. II, Recipe No. 262. 

Fruit, Recipe No. 257. 

Lobster, Recipe No. 258. 

Potato, Recipe No. 251. 

Salmon, Recipe No. 259. 

Sardine. Recipe No. 260. 

Stu£fed Tomato, Recipe No. 264. 

Tomato, Recipe No. 253. 

Vegetable, Recipe No. 262. 
Salad Dressing : 

Boiled, Recipe No. 250. 

French, Recipe No. 248. 

Mayonnaise, Recipe No. 249. 
Salmon Salad, Recipe No. 269. 



Digitized by 



Google 



238 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Salted or Smoked Meats, Boiled, 

Recipe No. 113. 
Sandwiches : 

Boston Brown Bread, Recipe No. 
281. 

Bread and Batter, Recipe No. 280. 

Gtieese, Recipe No. 288. 

Gtieese and Nut, Recipe No. 289. 

Cheese and Olive, Recipe No. 290. 

Chicken, Recipe No. 286. 

Chopped Ham, Recipe No. 283. 

Egg, Recipe No. 286. 

Fig, Recipe No. 292. 

Fig and Prune, Recipe No. 293. 

Jelly, Recipe No. 2^. 

Jelly and Nut, Recipe No. 295. 

Lettuce, Recipe No. 291. 

Prune and Fig, Recipe No. 293. 

Raw Beef, Recipe No. 284. 

Sardine, Recipe No. 287. 

Sliced Ham, Recipe No. 282. 
Sardine Salad, Recipe No. 260. 
Sardine Sandwiches, Recii)e No. 

287. 
Sauces (see Desserts, Hot or 
Cold) : 

for Fish (see Fish). 

for Meats (see Meat). 

for Puddings (see Pudding 
Sauces) . 

for Vegetables (see White 
Sauce). 
Saute'd Ck)d or Haddock, Recipe No. 

141. 
Saute'd Pork Chops, Recipe No. 107. 
Scalloped Dishes : 

Apple and Bread Pudding, Recipe 
No. 40. 

Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 152. 

Fish, No. n, Recipe No. 163. 

Lamb, Recipe No. 130. 

Mutton, Recipe No. 130. 

Onions, Recipe No. 62. 

Oysters, Recipe No. 157. 

Potatoes, No. I, Recipe No. 60. 

Potatoes, No. H, Recipe No. 61. 

Tomatoes, Recipe No. 63. 

Tomatoes with Rice, Recip& No. 64. 
Scotch Broth, Recipe No. 99. 
Scrambled Eggs, Recipes Nos. 90, 91. i 



Sherbet: 

Milk, Recipe No. 296. 

Pineapple, Recipe No. 297. 
Short Cake, Recipe No. 193. 
Silyer Cake, Recipe No. 203. 
Silver Polish, p. 31. 
Sirup for Fruit (Canned), p. 167. 
Sliced Ham Sandwiches, Recipe No. 

282. 
Snow Puddhig, Recipe No. 135. 
Soaiv Hard, Recipe No. 167. 
Soft-cooked Eggs : 

No. I, Recipe No. 85. 

No. II, Recipe No. 86. 

No. Ill, Recipe No. 87. 
Soft Custard, Recipe No. 96. 
Soups : 

Baked Bean, Recipe No. 73. 

Com, Recipe No. 68. 

Cream of (3elery, Recipe No. 70. 

Cream of Qreen Pea, Recipe No. 69. 

Meat (see Broth). 

Milk and Vegetable, p. 64. 

Potato, Recipe No. 67. 

Split Pea, Recipe No. 74. 

Tomato, Recipe No. 72. 

Tomato Bisque, Recipe No. 71. 

Vegetable, Recipe No. 98. 
Soup Stock, Recipe No. 98. 
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes, Recipe No. 

179. 
Spaghetti, Baked, with Tomato, 

Recipe No. 50. 
Spiced Peaches, Recipe No. 315. 
Split Pea Soup, Recipe No. 74. 
Sponge Cake, Recipe Nos. 196, 197. 
Squash Pie, Recipe No. 246. 
Stale Bread : 

Bread Crumbs, Battered, Recipe 
No. 33. 

Bread Crumbs, Dried, Recipe No. 
32. 

Croutons, Recipe No. 34. 

Stuffing for Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 
143. 

Stuffing for Fish, No. H, Recipe No. 
144. 

Stuffing for Poultry, Recipe No. 123. 

Toast, Milk, Recipe No. 36. 

Toast, Plain, Recipe No. 35 . 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



239 



Starch Dishes: 

Blaucmange (see Blancmange). 

Macaroni, Recipes Nos. 48, 49. 

Spaghetti, Recipe No. 50. 

Tapioca (see Desserts, Hot and 
Cold). 
Steak: 

Broiled, Recipe No. 104. 

Hamburg, Recipe No. 105. 
Steamed Chocolate Padding, Recipe 

No. 221. 
Steamed Clams, Recipe No. 162. 
Steamed Costard, Recipe No. 95. 
Steamed Dumplings for Stew, Recipe 

No. 218. 
Steamed Eggs, Recipe No. 84. 
Steamed Rhubarb Sauce, Recipe Na 12. 
Steamed lUce, Recipe No. 56. 
Stew: 

Beef, Recipe No. 102. 

Lamb, Recipe No. 103. 

Oyster, Recipe No. 158. 
Stewed Prunes, Recipe No. 16. 
Sticks, Bread, Recipe No. 175. 
Stock, Soup, Recipe No. 98. 
Strawberries, Canned, Recipe No. 308. 
Strawberry Ice Cream, Recipe No. 302. 
Strawberry Sauce, Recipe No. 230. 
Stuffed Eggs, Recipe No. 93. 
Staffed Potatoes, Recipe No. 18. 
Staffed Tomato Salad. Recipe No. 254. 
Staffing: 

for Chicken, Recipe No. 123. 

for Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 143. 

for Fish, No. II, Recipe No. 144. 

Oyster, for Fish, Recipe No. 146. 
Suet Padding, Recipe No. 220. 
Sugar, Barley, Recipe No. 331. 
Sugar Cookies, Recipe No. 237. 
Swedish RoUs, Recipe No. 174. 
Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes, Recipe No. 

178. 
Sweet Pickled Pears, Recipe No. 314. 
Sweet Pickled Watermelon, Recipe 
No. 316. 



Taffy, Butter, Recipe No. .330. 
Tapioca : 

Apple or Sago, Recipe No. 46. 



Peach, Recipe No. 45. 

Tapioca Cream, Recipe No. 47. 
Tartar Sauce : 

No. I, Recipe No. 148. 

No. H, Recipe No. 149. 
Tea, Recipe No. 1. 

Beef, Recipe No. 101. 

Flaxseed, Recipe No. 269. 

Russian, Recipe No. 2. 
Tea Muffins, Recipe No. 185. 
Toast : 

Milk, Recipe No. 36. 

Plain, Recipe No. 36. 
Tomato and Spaghetti, Baked, Recipe 

No. 50. 
Tomato, Stuffed, Salad, Recipe No. 254. 
Tomato Bisque, Recipe No. 71. 
Tomato Catchup, Recipe No. 320. 
Tomato Salad, Recipe No. 2S3. 
Tomato Sauce, Recipe No. 121. 
Tomato Soup, Recipe No. 72. 
Tomatoes : 

Pickled, Recipe No. 317. 

Scalloped, Recipe No. 63. 

with Rice, Scalloped, Recipe No. 64. 
Turkey, Giblet Gravy for, Recipe No. 

119. 
Turnips,. Boiled, Recipe No. 28. 



Vanilla Ice Cream, Recipe No. 301. 
Veal Cutlets, Recipe No. 108. 
Vegetable and Milk Soups, p. 60. 
Vegetable Salad, Recipe No. 252. 
Vcgatable Sauces (see White Sauce) 
Vegetable Soup (see Soup Stock). 
Vegetables : 

Beans, Boston Baked, Recipe No. 
23. 

Beets, Boiled, Recipe No. 27. 

Carrots, Boiled, Recipe No. 29. 

Onions, Boiled, Recipe No. 31. 

Parsnips, Boiled, Recipe No. 30. 

Potatoes (see Potatoes). 

Sauces for (see Sauces). 

Tomatoes, Scalloped, Recipe No. 63. 

Tomatoes with Rice, Scalloped, 
Recipe No. 64. 

Turnips, Boiled, Recipe No. 28. 
Vinegar Candy, Recipe No. 329. 



Digitized by 



Google 



240 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Walnuts, Creamed, Recipe No. 338. 
Warming oyer Fish: 

Creamed Fish, Recipe No. 150. 
Fish Croquettes, Recipe No. 156. 
Fish Hash, Recipe No. 154. 
Scalloped Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 

152. 
Scalloped Fish, No. n, Recipe No. 
153. 
Warming over Meats : 

Browned Hash, Recipe No. 126. 
Cottage Pie, Recipe No. 126. 
Dried Beef with White Sauce, 

Recipe No. 128. 
Meat Croquettes, Recipe No. 

131. 
Minced Lamb on Toast, Recipe No. 

129. 
Roast Meat in Gravy, Recipe No. 
127. 



Scalloped Mutton or Lamb, Recipe 
No. 130. 
Water Bread, Recipe No. 168. 
Watermelon, Sweet Pickled, Recipe 

No. 316. 
Welsh Rarebit, Recipe No. 78. 
Wheat: 

Cream of. Recipe No. 52. 
Whole, Pudding, Recipe No. 22a 
Whey, Lemon, Recipe No. 274. 
White Sauce : 

No. I, Recipe No. 24. ' 
No. II, Recipe No. 26. 
No. in. Recipe No. 26. 
and Dried Beet, Recipe No. 128. 
Whole Wheat Bread, Recipe No. 170. 
Whole Wheat Pudding, Recipe No. 
223. 



Yeast Bread (see Bread). 
Yellow Sauce, Recipe No. 233. 



Digitized by 



Google 



GENERAL INDEX 



AbbreTiations, table of, 33. 

Accounts, Ids. 

Acid ingredient in baking powder, 

125. 
Acids for sandwiches, 169. ' 
Afternoon teas, 216. 
Aitchbone (beef), 80. 
Alkaline ingredient in baking powder, 

125. 
Animal fats and oils, 112. 
Antidotes, 189. 
Antiseptic, 187. 
Arrowroot, 51. 
Ash pan, 20. 

B 
Back of rump, 80. 
Bacon, 79. 
Baking, definition of, 35. 

doughs and batters, time table for, 
131. 

of fish, 103. 
Baking powder, 124. 

use of, in pastry, 145. 
Baking powder mixtures (see Doughs 
and batters). 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

time table for baking of, 131. 
Barrel of flour, weight of, 117. 
Batters, 123. 

baking of, time table for, 131. 

proportions of flour and liquid for, 
124. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Bedroom, care of, 192. 
Beef (see also Meat) , 78. 

boiled, 80. 

braised (see Braised Beef, Recipe 
No. 110). 



241 



corned, 80. 

cuts of, 79. 

digestibiUty of, 78. 

manner of cooking yarious cats of 
80. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

roasts, 83. 

steaks (see Steaks, also Broiling). 

stews, 86. 

warming over, 97. 
Beverages, 36. 
Blacking of ranges, 21. 
Bleeding, 187. 
Blue points (oysters), 108. 
Bluing, 195. 
Boiled meats, 82. 
Boiling (see Meat, Cooking of). 

beef cuts for, 80. 

fresh meats, 82. 

lamb cuts for, 81 . 
Boiling water, 36. 

effect of, on eggs, 72. 

effect of, on fish, 102. 

effect of, on meat, 82. 

effect of, on starch, 52. 
Bolting (see Wheat). 
Boning of fish, 102. 
Borax, use of, 14. 
Box luncheons, 205. 
Brains (beef), 80. 
Braising, beef cuts for, 80. 

lamb cuts for, 81. 
Bran, 116. 

Brasses, cleaning of, 32. 
Bread (see also Flour, Wheats Baking 
. powder mixtures), 115. 

flour for, 115. 

food value of, 116. 

liquids for making of, 115. 

materials for making of, 115. 



Digitized by 



Google 



242 



INDEX 



Bread — continued. 

process of making, 119^ 

stale bread, uses of, 49. 
Bread mixers, 224. 
Breakfast table, the, 25. 
Brine, 163. 
Brisket (beef), 80. 
Broiling, 83. 

beef cuts for, 80. 

of fish, 102. 
Brooms and brushes, 12. 
Brown sugar, 177. 
Brushes, 12. 
Building a fire, 20. 
Bulbs as vegetables, 44. 
Burners, lamp, 19. 
Burning, of dust, 13. 

of garbage, 32. 
Bums, 188. 
Butter, 67. 

butter balls (see Recipe No. 76). 

butter cakes, making of, 132. 

butter making, 68. 

test for distinguishing butter from 
oleomargarine, 68. 



Cabbage, cooking of, 48. 
Cabinets, 10. 
Cake, 132. 

cream fillings for, 136. 

frostings for, 137. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Camp cookery, 218. 
Candies, 177. 
Cane sugar, 177. 
Canning, 167. 
Canning of fruit, 167. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Carbohydrates, 61. 
Carpeted floors and stairs, sweeping 

of, 13. 
Carrots (see Index to Recipes) . 
Casein, 68. 
Cereals, 55. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

rice, 55. 
recipes for (see Index to Recipes) 
Cheese, 68. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 



Chicken, 96. 

Chimneys, lamp, cleaning of, 19. 

Chocolate and cocoa, 38. 

recii)es for (see Index to Recipes). 
Chocolate stains, to remove, 16. 
Chuck ribs (beef), 80. 
Clams, 108. 

cleaning of, 108. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Clarifying of fat, 113. 
Coal range, the, 20. 
Cocoa, 38. 

stains, to remove, 16. 
Coflfee. 37. 

stains, to remove, 16. 
Cold storage of foods, 166. 
Color in house furnishing, 203. 
Combination of foods in menus, 162, 
Combustion, 17. 
Compressed yeast, 118. 
Condensed milk, 63. 
Confectioner's sugar, 177. 
Convalescent diet, 154. 
Cooker, fireless, 222. 
Cookies (see Index to Recipes). 
Corning, meat for, 80. 
Com starch as a thickening agent, 52. 
Cream (see Butter, Cheese, Milk). 
Crumbs, bread, 49. 
Crusts for pies, 146. 
Cupful, to measure a, 33. 
Curd, 69. 

Cuts of meat, plates of, facing, 76, 77, 
84, 85, 92, 93. 



Dampers, 20. 

Desserts, frozen, 163. 

Dessert starches, 52. 

Diagram of breakfast table, 26. 

Diet, 153. 

Digestibility of beef, 78. 

Digestive processes, 183. 

Dinner table, 27. 

Dish cloths, care of, 31. 

Dishes for camp use, 218. 

Dish towels, care of, 31. 

Dish washing, 29. 

Disinfectants, 191. 

Doors, hangings for, 202. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



243 



Donghs, yeast, 119. 

Doughs and batters, 124, 139. 

method of steamiDg, 139. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

steamed, 139. 
Dress for the kitchen, 9. 
Dressing for poultry, 96. 
Dressings, for fish, 105. 

for salads, 149. 
Dried fruits, preparation of, for cook- 
ing, 42. 
Drinks, recipes for, 36. 
Dry yeast, 118. 
Dust, 11. 

disposal of, after sweeping, 13. 
Dusting, 13. 
Duty of home maker to herself, 221. 

E 

Egging and crumbing for frying, 115. 
Eggs, 70. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Entire wheat flour, 117. 
Equipment, 10. 
Expenditure and food value, relation 

of, 162. 
Experiments with baking powder, 125. 

eggs, 72. 

meat, 81. 

starch, 51. 

yeast, 118. 
Extinguishing of oil lamps, 19. 



Face of rump (beef), 80. 
Fats and oils, 112. 

clarifying of fat, 113. 

oleomargarine, 67. 
Fillings, for cake (see Index to 
Recipes). 

for sandwiches, 158. 
Finger bowls, 28. 
Fire, the kitchen, 19. 
Rre box, 20. 
Fireless cooker, 222. 
Fish, 101. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

sauces for, 106. 

shellfish, 106. 
Flank (b^f), «0, 



Floors, 13. 
Flour, 116. 

as a thickening agent, 62. 

barrel of, weight of, 117. 
Food, 34, 61. 
Food choppers, 224. 
Food value : 

of bread, 115. 

of butter, 67. 

Of candy, 177. 

of cheese, 68. 

of chocolate and cocoa, 39. 

of eggs, 71. 

of fats and oils, 112. 

of fish, 161. 

of fruit, 40. 

of gelatin, 99. 

of ice cream, 163. 

of meat, 78. 

of milk, 62. 

of oysters, 108. 

of pastry, 145. 

of salads, 148. 

of starch, 51. 

of sugar, 177. 

of vegetables, 42. 

of water, 35, 61. 

of water ices, 163. 
Foods, combination of proper, for 
menus, 162. 

for box luncheons, 205. 

preservation of, 166. * 

storage of, in refrigerator, 15. 

suitable for camp cookery, 219. 
fireless cookery, 224. 
food chopper, 226. 

uses to body, 184. 
Fore quarter, beef, 80. 

lamb or mutton, 81. 
Fowl, to select, 95. 
Freezer, 163. 

Freezing ice cream, etc., 163. 
Frostings for cake (see Index to 

Recipes). 
Frozen desserts (see Index to 

Recipes) . 
Fruit and sugar, for canning, propor- 
tions of, 173. 
for jellies, proportions of, 167. 
1 for marmalades, proportions of, 175. 



Digitized by 



Google 



244 



INDEX 



Fruit pies, 146. 
Frnits, 40. 

canning of, 167. 

drinks ma4e from (see Drinks, 
Index to Recipes). 

for canning, 166. 

for marmalades, 175. 

for pickling, 170. 

for pies, 146. 

for salads, 148. 

for sandwiches, 150. 

jelly making, 172. 
Frying, 82, 113. 
Fnel, 18, 19. 



Garbage, 32. 
Gardens, school, 226. 
Gas burners, 22. 
Gas ranges, 21. 
Gelatin, 99. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Germs, carriers of, 12. 

helpful, 69. 

in dust, 11. 
Glasses, table, filling of, 28. 
Glucose, 177. 
Qood beef, marks of, 78. 
Graham flour, 117. 
Grain, 55, 115. 
Granulated sugar, 177. 
Grape sugar, 177. 
Gravies, J)3. 

Grease spots, removal of, 14. 
Green vegetables, cooking of, 44. 
Grilling (see Broiling), 83. 
Grinding and bolting, 116. 



Hair, covering of, when cooking, 9. 

Ham, 79. 

Hamburg steak, 89. 

Hands, care of, when cooking, 9. 

Hard candies, 178. 

Hard water, 35. 

Hardwood floors and stairs, cleaning 

of, 12. 
Heart of beef, 80. 
Heat as an agent to baking powder, 

125, 



Hind quarter, beef, 79. 
lamb or mutton, 81. 
Hind shin, beef, 80. 
Home maker, the, 221. 
Home making, 201. 

Home table, planning of meals for, 162. 
Honey, 177. 

Hot-water faucet, improper use of, 36. 
House furnishing, 201. 



Ice cream (see also Ices, Sherbets, In- 
dex to Recipes) , 163. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Ices, water (see also Sherbets, Index 
to Recipes) . 

freezing of, 163. 
Infection, 187. 
Intestinal juice, 183. 
Invalid cookery, 153. 

recipes for, 153-158. 
Irish moss (see Index to Recipes). 
Iron-rust stains, to remove, 16. 
Ironing, 196. 



Jars, filling of, 216. 

Jellies, 172 (see also Gelatin). 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

use of gelatin in, 99. 
Jelly (see Jellies). 
Junket, 63. 



Keeping a fire overnight, 21. 
Kerosene lamps, 19. 
Kidneys (beef), 80. 
Kindling, 20. 
Kitchen, 9. 
Knives, care of, 30. 

placing of, 25. 

scouring of, 31. 



Labor-saving devices, 222. 
Lacteals, 184. 
Lactose, 177. 
Lamb, 78, 81. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Lamps, kerosene, 19. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



245 



Lard, leaf, 113. 
Laundering, 19i. 
Leaves as vegetables, 44. 
Leg of lamb or mutton, 81. 
Lemon juice, use of, in stains, 16. 
Lettuce, 149. 

Liquid and flour for doughs and bat- 
ters, proportion of, 123. 
Liquid diet, 153. 
Liquid yeast, 118. 
Liquids for bread making, 119. 

temperature of, for yeast, 119. 
Little-neck clams, 108. 
Liver, 80. 

Living, cost of, 208. 
Loaf sugar, 177. 
Lobsters, 110. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Loin of mutton or lamb, 81. 
Luncheons, 205. 



Manners, table, 28. 
Marmalades, 175. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Measurements, table of, 33. 
Meat, 78. 
boiling, 91. 
meats for, 80. 
salt or smoked meats, 92. 
braising, 91. 
broiling or grilling, 88. 
care of, 81. 
cooking of, 82. 
cuts of (see plates facing pp. 76, 

77, 84, 85, 92, 93). 
experiments with, 81. 
food value of, 78. 
gravies for, 85, 93. 
hamburg steak, 89. 
pan-broiled chops, 89. 
roasting, 90. 

meats for (see Meat, cuts of, 
also Roasts), 79. 
stewing, 87. 
Menu work, 162, 208. 

breakfast menus, with cost, 209. 
essentials in successful planning 

for home table, 208. 
luncheon menus, with cost, 211. 



planning of meals in, 162. 
reference books for, 162. 
relation of food value to expendi- 
ture in, 162. 
Microbes (see Gtorms). 
Middlings (wheat), 116. 
Milk, 62. 

Milk products, 67, 68. 
Mlk sugar, 177. 

recipes for milk dishes (see Index 
to Recipes) . 
Mineral matter in food, 61. 
Moisture as an agent to baking pow- 
der, 126. 
Molasses, 177. 

proportion of baking powder with, 
126. 
Mutton, 78, 81. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 



Neck of beef, 80. 

of mutton or lamb, 81. 
Nursing, 185. 



Oils, 112. 

Oleomargarine, 67. 

Onions, cooking of, 44. 

Outfit for pupils in cookery classes, 

10. 
Oven, 131. 
Ox tail, use of, 80. 
Oysters, 108. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 



Pan broiling, 83. 
Pancreatic juice, 183. 
Pastry, 145. 

recipe for plain (see Index to 
Recipes). 
Pastry flour, 145. 
Peaches (see Index to Recipes). 
Pears (see Index to Recipes). 
Pickles (see Index to Recipes). 
Pickling, 170. 
Picnic lunches, 205. 
Pictures, arrangement of, in house 

furnishing, 203. 



Digitized by 



Google 



246 



INDEX 



Pies, 146. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Plums (see Index to Recipes) . 
Poisons, 189. 
Pork, 79. 

chops, pan-broiled (see Index to 

Recipes) . 
chops, sauted (see Index to Rec- 
ipes) . 
Potatoes (see Vegetable soups, Scal- 
loped dishes) . 
recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Poultry, 96. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Powdered sugar, 177. 
Prime ribs (beef), 80. 
Proportions of 

baking powder with flour, molas- 
ses, sour milk, 126. 
flour and liquid for doughs and 

batters, 124. 
ice and salt for freezing, 163. 
ingredients for batters, 124. 
ingredients for quick doughs, 123. 
ingredients for yeast doughs, 123. 
sugar and fruits for jellies, 173. 
sugar and fruits for marmalades, 

176. 
sugar and fruits for sirups for can- 
ning, 167. 
thickening agents for liquids, 61. 
Proteids, 61. 
Provisions, list of, for camp cookery, 

219. 
Pudding sauces (see Index to Recipes). 



Quick doughs, proportions of ingre- 
dients for, 120. 

R 

Raising of batters, 124. 
Raising of doughs, 120. 
Rattleran (beef), 80. 
Refreshments for afternoon teas, 216. 
Refrigerator, 16. 
Rhubarb (see Index to Recipes) . 
Rice (see Index to Recipes) . 
Ripening of cheese, 69. 
of cream, 67. 



Ripening of meat, 78. 
Roast beef, 83. 
Roasting, 83. 

definition of, 83. 
Roasts: 

beef cuts for, 79. 

lamb cuts for, 81. 

time table for roasting, 83. 
Rooms as units in house furnishing, 

204. 

Roots as vegetables, 44. 
Round, 80. 

Rubbers for canning, 168. 
Rump, do. 



Saddle, 81. 

Sago, 62. 

Salad dressings, 149. 

Salads, 148. 

dressings for (see Index to Recipes) . 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Saliva, 183. 

Salt and ice, proportions of, for freez- 
ing, 163. 
Salt meats, boiling of, 92. 
Sandwiches, 168. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Sanitation, 190. 
Sauces (see Index to Recipes) . 
Scalds, 188. 
Scalloped dishes, 68. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
School gardens, 226. 
School kitchen, 9. 
School lunches, 206. 
Scrubbing, 14. 

Sea moss as a thickening agent, 62. 
Seasoning, proportions of, for vegeta- 
bles, 46. 
Semi-solids, in diet, 163. 
Service, for breakfast, etc., 26. 
Serving, general rules for, 28. 
Setting the table, 26. 
Shellfish, 108. 

Sherbets (see Index to Recipes). 
Shin, 80, 86. 

Shortening for pastry, 146. 
Shoulder, mutton or lamb, 81. 
Sides of beef, 79. 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX 



247 



Silver, cleaning of, 30. 

Sink, cleaning of, 31. 

Sirloin, cuts of, 80. 

Sirup for canning, 167. 

Skim milk, 63. 

Smoked meats, boiling of, 92. 

Soap, 114, 195. 

Soda, caustic solution, use of, 32. 

Soups (see Index to Recipes). 

cream, 64. 

meat, 84. 
Sour cream, 67. 

Sour milk, proportion of baking pow- 
der with, 126. 
Speck, a, to measure, 33. 
Spinach, cooking of, 45. 
Sponge cakes, making of, 133. 
Spoonful, a, to measure, 33. 
Spring lamb, 79. 
Spring wheat, 116. 
Stains, 16. 
Stairs, 13. 
Stale bread, 49. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Starch, 51, 183, 195. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

suggestive topics for talks on, 
54. 
Station, 10. 
Steak, hamburg, 89. 
Steaks, 80, 83. 
Steaming, 139. 
Steer, 78. 
Sterile water, 36. 
Sterilizing, 167. 
Stewing, 86. 
Stews, beef cuts for, 80. 

dumplings for, 139. 

lamb cuts for, 81. 
Sticking piece (beef), 80. 
Stirring of coarse cereals while cook- 
ing, 56. 
Stock, soup, 85. 
Stoves, 23. 

suitable for camp cookery, 218. 
Straining (jellies), 173. 
Sucrose, 177. 
Suet, 80. 
Sugar, 177. 
Summer vegetables, 44. 



Supper table, the, 27. 
Sweeping, 12. 



Table, 25. 

dinner, 27. 
Tail, ox, use of, 80. 
Tapioca, 52. 
Tea and coffee, 36. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 

stains, to remove, 16. 
Teas, afternoon, 216. 
Temperatures of water, 36. 
Tests for 

beef, 78. 

butter, 68. 

eggs, 71. 

fat, 114. 

fish, 101. 

flour, 117. 

lamb, 79. 

lobsters. 111. 

mutton, good, 78. 

oven for baking, 131. 

poultry, 95. 

veal, 79. 

vegetables, 44. 
Thickening agents, 52. 
Time tables for 

broiling meat and fish, 83. 

cooking of cereals, 56. 

doughs and batters, 124. 

roasting, 83. 
Tinware, cleaning of, 30. 
Tip of sirloin beef, 79. 
Tongue, beef, 81. 
Top of round, beef, 80. 
Towel, hand, use of, in cooking, 9. 
Tray, for the sick room, 154. 

serving, the, 28. 
Tripe, 80. 

Trying out of fat, 113. 
Tubers, 44. 

Tumblers, putting of jelly into, 173. 
Turkey, to select a, 95. 
Turnips, cooking of, 44. 



Vacuum cleaners, 224. 
Veal, 79. 



Digitized by 



Go^le 



248 



INDEX 



Veal caUets, 89. 
Vegetable fats and oils, 112. 
Vegetables, 42 (see also Vegetable 
soups, Salads, Sandwiches). 

cooking of, 44, 49. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

sauces for (see Index to Recipes). 
Vermicelli, 64. 
ViUi, 184. 



Waste pipe, refrigerator, care of, 15. 
Water, 35, 61. 



Wheat, 116. 
Whey, 69. 
Whitefish, 102. 
White sauce, 47. 
Whole wheat flour, 117. 
Wicks, lamp, trimming of, 19. 
Window box, 226. 

Windows, treatment of, in house fur- 
nishing, 203. 
Wrapping of sandwiches, 158. 



Teast, 117. 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOME RECIPES 249 



Digitized by 



Google 



250 HOME RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOME RECIPES 251 



Digitized by 



Google 



252 HOME RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOME RECIPES 253 



Digitized by 



; Google 



254 HOME RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



HOME RECIPES 255 



Digitized by 



Google 



256 HOME RECIPES 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



I-/, 






YB 67S29 



4 




Digiti: 



zed by Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



■dmh 




Ctass 
Book- 



Oaamw. 



HOUSEHOLD 
SCIENCE AND ARTS 



FOR 



ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS 



BY 



JOSEPHINE MORRIS 

SUPKRVISOR OF HOUSEHOLD SCIENCK AND ARTS 
IN THE BOSTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS 




NEW YORK .:. CINCJNNATr .:• CHICAGO 
AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY 






COPTSIOIIT, 191J ANI. VJVi, uy 
.loSKIMIINE MOliKIS. 



MORKIli, ilUCKKlloLO HCIBNCB AND AKT8. 
W.F. I 






TO 



Mrs. ELLOR CARLISLE RIPLEY 

ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF THE BOSTON PUBLIC 
SCHOOLS, WHOSE KINDLY INTEREST AND COOPERATION 
HAVE BEEN INVALUABLE AIDS IN THE ACCOMPLISHMENT 
OF THE WORK, THIS BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED 
BY THE AUTHOR, IN GRATITUDE FOR HER HELPFUL 
SUGGESTIONS IN ITS PLANNING AND COMPLETION 



PREFACE 

'' Household Science and Arts " aims jfirst and last to be 
practical. Its suggestions as to best ways of keeping a house 
clean and sanitary, its advice in regard to the care and 
preparation of wholesome foods, and its formulation of about 
three hundred fifty recipes are all to the point. They are, 
moreover, such as may be followed in all homes. Because 
it is easy to find elaborate recipes and difficult to secure a 
collection suggestive and useful to the average housekeeper, 
this book has embraced only that which is well within the 
reach of the typical American home. 

All directions within these covers are expressed in simple 
language. This fact makes the book easily understood by 
young students, and saves time and thought for young 
housekeepers. 

In the outline of preliminary lessons, teachers may find a 
suggested order of making girls acquainted with the kitchen 
and its equipment. This acquaintance should be made very 
informally, with no attempt bo cover in the first lesson more 
than the general and familiar kitchen furnishings and tools 
and their place and order. The individual cooking utensils, 
unfamiliar in name and use, should be taken up just before 
need of each is felt, so as to avoid confusion of mind arising 
from trying to learn many new things at once. 

It is suggested, also, that in the first, and in all subsequent, 
lessons teachers place marked emphasis upon the importance 
of wearing in the kitchen a clean, attractive outfit ; of meet- 
ing there all requirements under " Personal Habits in the 
Kitchen " ; and of not making '^ Mistakes to be avoided in 



6 PREFACE 

the Kitchen." In these particulars the teachers set stand- 
ards which the children can reach only by constant practice. 
While children may understand a full statement of what 
they ought to do and of what they ought to avoid, good 
kitchen habits can be secured only by the teacher's persistent 
demand for the ideal. 

The theory of a process in cookery is understood much more 
easily after than before experience with that process. For 
this reason, teachers are urged to reduce explanation to a 
minimum until pupils have had some practice in the process 
to be explained. The consistent pursuit of this plan not only 
gives better results from cookery instruction, but it favors 
the acquisition of skill by the pupils and increases their 
interest in their work. To objectify their conception of a 
recipe or direction is the great pleasure and great gain of a 
course in Household Arts. Therefore the teacher's silence 
is golden and the pupil's activity is rich reward. 

JOSEPHINE MORRIS. 



CONTENTS 

FIRST YEAR 

PAGE 

Preliminary Lessons 9 

Dust 11 

Refrigerator 15 

Removing Stains 16 

Combustion 17 

Kerosene Lamps 19 

The Kitchen Fire 19 

The Table 25 

Dish Washing, Silver Polishing, Care of the Sink and 

OF Garbage . .29 

Abbreviations and Measurements 32 

Food 34 

Water 35 

Beverages . .36 

Fruit 40 

Vegetables . . . . . . . . . .42 

Starch . .51 

Cereals • . .55 

Composition of Foods 61 

Milk . . . . 62 

Cream Soups 64 

Butter . . . 67 

Cheese . .68 

Eggs 70 



8 CONTENTS 

SECOND YEAR 

PAGE 

Meat 78 

Gelatin 99 

Fish 101 

Fats and Oils 112 

Bread 115 

Baking Powder . . 124 

Cake 132 

Steamed Doughs and Batters 139 

Pastry 145 

Salads 148 

Invalid Cookery 153 

Sandwiches 158 

Composition and Cost of Menus 162 

Frozen Desserts . . 163 

Preserving Foods 166 

Jellies 172 

Sugar . . . 176 

Candy Making 177 

Digestive Processes 183 

Home Nursing 185 

Household Sanitation 190 

Care of Bedrooms 192 

Laundering 194 

Household Accounts 198 

House Furnishing . 201 

Box OR School Luncheons . 205 

Menus .208 

Camp Cookery . 218 

The Home Maker's Duty to Herself . . . .221 

School Gardens 226 

Index to Recipes . 228 

General Index 241 

Home Recipes 249 



HOUSEHOLD SOIEI^OE AND ARTS 

FIRST YEAR 

Preliminaey Lessons 

At the beginning of this course in Household Arts the fol- 
lowing points are suggested for consideration with the class 
in three fully illustrated preliminary talks, in which the chil- 
dren are taught to exemplify what is stated in regard to outfit, 
personal habits, and mistakes; to become familiar with the 
general equipment and order of the kitchen ; and to use the 
gas burners. 
I. Pupil's Costume. 

Cap to cover the hair entirely. 
Apron, cotton material, to cover the dress entirely. 
Towel. 
Holder. 
II. Personal Habits in the Kitchen. 

Dress. — A tub dress is an ideal kitchen dress ; its best 

substitute is a large allover cotton apron. 
Hands. — No rings should be worn ; the hands should 
be washed and the nails thoroughly cleaned before 
beginning to cook. After touching the face, hair, 
handkerchief, or anything not pertaining to the cook- 
ing, the hands should always be washed. 
Hair. — The hair should be completely covered by the 

cap, and all loose locks tucked beneath it. 
Towel. — Each pupil should use her own hand towel for 

drying her hands. 
Never use the hand towel for dusting or for drying dishes. 
9 



10 FIRST YEAR 

III. Mistakes to be avoided by Pupils in the Kitchen. 

Cluttering utensils on the cookery table, or articles in 

the room. 
Soiling many dishes when a few could be washed and 

used again. 
Using the dishcloth for anything but dish washing, such 

as for wiping spots from the floor. 
Wasting time looking in the cookbook for recipes often 

used. These should be copied and hung in plain sight 

near the cookery table. 

IV. Equipment. 
" General. 

Sink and furnishings. 
Ranges. 
Towel racks. 
Demonstration desk. 
Dining table and dining chairs. 
Station stools. 

Station for each pupil with gas burner and standard 
equipment. 



Molding board. 


Desk pan. 


Case knife. 


Salt box. 


Paring knife. 


Pepper shaker. 


Steel fork. 


Tin plate. 


2 teaspoons. 


Crockery plate. 


1 tablespoon. 


Cup and saucer. 


1 wooden spoon. 


Sauce dish. 


Measuring cup. 


Scrubbing brush. 


1 pint agate saucepan. 




Cabinets : Order of 




Dishes. 


Linen. 


Glassware. 


Silver. 


Cooking utensils. 




State particular arrangement 


of each cabinet in school 



DUST 11 

kitchen, locating contents of particular drawers, closets, and 
shelves as set apart for supplies, utensils, dishes, linen, and 
silver. 

V. Special. — Practice the proper use of the fire-proof ed blan- 
ket to be used in case of accident with the gas burner. 
VI. Special Instructions on Gas Burners. 

Care of matches. 

Lighting gas burners ; demonstration and practice. 

Teach economical use of gas, showing suitable flame 
for simmering and for boiling. 

Extinguishing gas. 

Dust 

Much dust is alive. That is, it contains germs or microbes, 
as they are sometimes called. A germ or microbe is among the 
smallest of living things. Many are so small that a powerful 
microscope, making them seem at least fifty times as large as 
they are, must be used in order to examine them. Most 
germs will not grow unless kept moist and warm. Some of 
these germs can produce useful tiny plants, such as yeast. 
Some of them produce undesirable plants, such as mold in 
bread and in cheese. Some of them produce during their 
growth very dangerous poisons, and when our bodies are 
weakened from lack of food, air, or sleep, such germs may 
carry diseases to us. So the rooms in which we live should 
be kept as free from dust as possible. 

One way of protecting ourselves from the living germs 
always found in dust is the use of a proper method of dusting 
and sweeping rooms. The main thing to be done is to avoid 
throwing dust into the air when trying to remove it from any 
article of furniture. Much that will be said in the next les- 
son on dusting and sweeping can be traced back to this one 
principle of avoiding the scattering of dust. 



12 FIRST YEAR 

But harmful germs are brought to the home by other 
carriers than dust. Flies are very harmful to us and useful 
to bad germs by carrying them from place to place. Flies 
are hatched in filth and always support germs. The good 
housekeeper will not allow uncovered in her house anything 
attractive to flies. She will also make sure that her garbage 
pail is not open to them as a free boarding house. She will 
use every possible means of keeping her home free from these 
busy little pests. 

Mosquitoes, too, are enemies. Although their bite is un- 
pleasant, we should wage war on them for another reason than 
that. They carry diseases, and are a very common means of 
" chills and fever," ague or malaria. 

But there are useful germs. Bread making, butter making, 
and cheese curing are aided by such germs, and they help too 
in the ripening of meat. 

SWEEPING 

Care of Brooms and Brushes. — In sweeping use alternate 
sides and corners of the broom, so that it may wear evenly. 
Wash brooms frequently in hot, soapy water, and hang them 
up to dry. Brush all lint from dustbrush, and wash it occa- 
sionally in cold or warm water, never in hot, as hot water 
softens the glue which holds the bristles in place. After 
washing the brush, hang it in the open air to dry. 

Sweeping Smooth, Finished Floors, or Hardwood Floors. — 
Before beginning to sweep, see that no uncovered food is in the 
room. Then dust the corners of the room with a short- 
handled bristle brush ; dust the sides of the room with a long- 
handled bristle brush, sweeping toward the center; then 
sweep the floor with short strokes, keeping the broom close 
to the floor to prevent raising dust. 

Next, gather the dust in one spot near the center of the 



DUSTING 13 

room, and take it up with a brush, or a small broom and a 
dustpan, and burn it at once whenever possible, opening all 
the dampers of the range before putting the dust into the fire. 

Care of Hardwood Floors and Stairs. — Always sweep 
floor and stairs before wiping them with damp cloth. 

Use as Httle water as possible, and wipe the wood dry ; or 
wipe it over with kerosene. 

Rub hard with a soft, dry cloth until the wood is perfectly 
dry. 

Sweeping a Carpeted Floor, (a) Preparatory Steps. — 
Dust pictures and all pieces of furniture too large to be 
removed, and cover them with cheesecloth covers. Dust 
all small articles and remove them from the room. If a 
high wind is blowing, close the windows to prevent the dust 
from blowing back. Tear old newspapers into small pieces, 
dampen them, and sprinkle them over the carpet. 

(6) Sweeping. — Sweep the corners of the carpet with a 
short-handled corn broom. Sweep the sides of the room with 
a long-handled corn broom, sweeping towards the center, 
and taking short strokes, so as to avoid raising dust. Collect 
the dirt in one pile and take it up on a dustpan with a small 
broom. 

A carpet sweeper may be used on the center of the carpet 
after the sides are brushed. 

Sweeping Carpeted Stairs. — Use a short-handled corn 
broom and a dustpan covered with damp paper. Brush the 
dirt from each step into the dustpan. Be careful to leave the 
corners clean. 

DUSTING 

Implements for Dusting. — Dry mop for hard wood or 
smooth-finished floors, or a long-handled corn broom covered 
with a canton flannel bag. 

Several cheesecloth dusters. 



14 FIRST YEAR 

Care of Mops and Dusters. — Dry mops should be washed 
and boiled (on the day when the family washing is done), 
rinsed well, and dried outdoors. 

Canton flannel bags for broom cases should be washed and 
rinsed each time after using. 

Dusters should be washed, scalded, and dried outdoors 
each time after using. 

Dusting a Room. — Dust the walls and highest articles 
in the room first, going regularly around the room. Dust 
lower articles with cheesecloth duster. 

Gather or wipe the dust carefully into the duster and turn 
over the cloth to fold the dust well inside. Use a clean por- 
tion of duster for each new article to be dusted. 

SCRUBBING 

I. Requisites. 

Desk pan. Scouring soap. 

Desk cloth. Hot water. 

Scrubbing brush. 

II. Method. 

Remove any crumbs ; wash the table or board with a wet 
cloth. Dip the bristles of the scrubbing brush into 
water, rub scouring soap on the brush, and scrub well 
with the grain of the wood; wash off the soap ; wipe the 
wood entirely dry. 

Rinse the cloth, shake it, and hang it to dry. 

Grease spots on unfinished wood may be removed with 
ammonia, or with water and borax. 

Pour ammonia on the spot, and let it stand a few minutes ; 
then rinse it off with cold water. 

Completely cover the spot with the borax and let it stand 
overnight. 

Rinse it off with clear water. 



REFRIGERATOR 15 

Refrigerator 
I. Implements for Cleaning. 

Scrubbing brush. 
Small broom. 

Long-handled brush or stick for the waste pipe. 
Desk pan. 
Desk cloth. 

Plenty of hot water with washing soda dissolved in it. 
II. Method. 

Remove all food and ice, take out the shelves and ice 

racks. 
Scrub the shelves and racks with the scrubbing brush 

and put them in the sun to dry. 
Scrub the floor and walls of the refrigerator with hot soda 

water, using a small broom. Never put the hands 

into soda water. 
Be very careful to clean the corners well. 
Make a very strong solution of soda water. 
Wash the waste pipe either with a long-handled bristle 

brush that comes for this purpose, or with a stick 

having a cloth wound around it. 
Now scald the inside of the refrigerator with clear, boiling 

water and wipe it as dry as possible. Leave the refrig- 
erator open until dt is thoroughly dry. 
When it is dry, replace the racks, ice, shelves, and food, 

wiping all the food dishes on the outside. 
Close the doors and wipe the woodwork outside with a 

damp cloth. 
A refrigerator should be thoroughly cleaned once a week. 
It should be examined daily to make sure that no bit of 

food, however small, is left to spoil, or mold. 
Caution. — Hot food should never be put into the refrig- 
erator. No food with a strong odor, such as cabbage, onions, 
or bananas should be placed there. 



16 FIRST YEAR 

Removing Stains 

I. Caused by Fruits or Beverages. 

Requisites. 
Large bowl. 
Cold water. 

Plenty of boiling water. 
Method. 

Fruit, tea, or coffee stains may be removed while yet 
fresh by laying the stained parts over a bowl and 
slowly pouring boiling water on the stain. 
Repeat the process until the stains are removed. 
Pear stains often will not come out under this treat- 
ment and require " Javelle Water." 
Cocoa and chocolate stains should be soaked in cold 
water for ten or fifteen minutes, and then treated for 
removal as advised for fruit stains. 
II. Iron Rust Stains. 
Requisites. 
Cold water. 
Lemon juice. 
Salt. 

Sunshine. 
Method. — Iron rust stains may be removed by wetting 
the material in cold water, applying lemon juice and salt, 
and then placing the material at once in the sunshine. More 
than one application may be necessary. 

Caution. — Causes of iron rust should be carefully avoided. 
A loose screw lying in the laundry tub, hooks on wash gar- 
ments, etc., are liable to make much trouble. Lemon juice 
and salt tend to rot material to which they are applied. 
Hence it is wise to avoid stains which call for their use. 



COMBUSTION 17 

Combustion 

Experiment 1. — Light a candle. Place a bottle over it. 
What happens? 

Experiment 2. — Light a candle, place a bottle over it, and 
just before the light goes out, hft the bottle. What happens? 

Experiment 3. — Light a candle, place a chimney over it, 
and put a piece of paper over the top of the chimney. What 
happens? 

Relight the candle, and raise the chimney a little at the 
bottom. What happens? 

What is necessary to make the candle burn and to keep 
it burning? 

Experiment 4. — Light a taper and put it into a bottle. 
Cover the bottle. After the hght has gone out, pour a little 
Hmewater into the bottle. What happens to the limewater? 
We have produced a gas in the bottle which turns limewater 
milky. It is composed of carbon and oxygen, and is called 
carbon dioxide. Limewater is the test for carbon dioxide. 

Experiment 5. — Breathe into a bottle. Pour a little lime- 
water into the bottle. We have the same gas, carbon diox- 
ide, in our breath. 

Experiment 6. — Light a taper and put it into a bottle. 
Does any water collect on the sides of the bottle ? Water 
is composed of hydrogen and oxygen. 

Air. — From experiments 1, 2, 3, and 4 we may conclude 
that air is necessary to keep the candle burning. Air is a 
mixture of nitrogen and oxygen. It is the oxygen which is 
the active element. 

Oxidation. — Oxygen has a great tendency to unite with 
other elements. When they unite slowly, we do not notice 
any rise in temperature. This gradual process is called oxi- 
dation. 

Combustion. — When fire is appHed to fuels, the oxidation 



18 FIRST YEAR 

takes place rapidly. Noticeable heat and light are produced. 
This process is called combustion. 

Kindling Point. — Fuels differ as to the temperature at 
which they will bum or unite with oxygen. The tempera- 
ture at which a substance will begin to burn is called the 
kindling point. Make a list of fuels, beginning with those 
that have the lowest kindling point. 

Composition of Fuels. — From experiments 4 and 5 we 
may conclude that fuels contain carbon. From experiment 
6 we may conclude that fuels also contain hydrogen. 

Products of Combustion. — The chief products of combus- 
tion of fuels are the gases which rise from the fire. They 
are carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide and usually steam. 
Carbon monoxide is the gas that burns near the fuel with a 
bluish flame. It is the product of incomplete combustion. 
Carbon dioxide is the product of complete combustion and 
is invisible. Much of the fuel is wasted in the process of 
combustion. Smoke and soot are a loss. Smoke is composed 
of the little pieces of fuel which have been partly burned, 
and escape with the vapor in the draft up the chimney. 
When wood and soft coal are burned, parts of the oily com- 
pounds are combined with the unconsumed bits of fuel and 
stick to the chimney flues. This is called soot. 

Chimneys have to be kept free from soot, for it sometimes 
collects in large quantities and ignites in the chimney and 
burns. 

Ashes are the mineral substances in the fuels which will 
not burn. 



THE KITCHEN FIRE 19 

Kerosene Lamps 
I. Cleaning. 

Occasionally take off the burners, laying them on several 
folds of newspaper; take out the wicks, boil the 
burners in soda water in the proportion of one (1) 
teaspoonful of washing soda to one (1) quart of water. 
At all times keep the air holes free from dust and 
lamp dirt. 
II. Filling. 

Fill the lamp to within one inch of the top. 

Trim the wick with care; see that it is perfectly even, 
with no projecting point. 

Clean the chimney by washing it in hot ammonia water. 
Dry it thoroughly on a clean glass towel kept for the 
purpose. Wipe the lamp on the outside with lamp 
cloth kept for this purpose only. 

III. Extinguishing. 

Oil lamps without extinguishers should be turned low 
enough to get the wick away from the air. Then they 
will go out of themselves. 

IV. Quality. 

Cheap burners of thin brass are not really economical, 
as they get out of order soon, and so are much harder 
to keep clean than well-made burners. 

The Kitchen Fire 

Requisites for a Fire. 
Air. 
Fuel. 

Matches or some other means of raising fuel to the kin- 
dling point. 
Fuel may be : — 

Paper. Peat. 

Shavings. Coke. 



20 FIRST YEAR 

Wood. Gas. 

Charcoal. Denatured Alcohol. 

Coal. Gasoline. 

When hot enough to takie fire, a substance is at the kindling 
point. 

THE COAL RANGE 

The range is an iron box with attached parts. The pupil 
should become thoroughly familiar with the range and all its 
parts. The fire box, the stovepipe, the dampers, the oven, 
and the ash pan. 

Fire Box. — The fire box varies much in size, but is usually 
rectangular in shape and holds the fuel. 

Stovepipe. — The stovepipe is used to carry off smoke and 
unburned gas. 

Dampers. — The dampers are used to control the currents 
of air. The front damper admits air below the fuel and allows 
it to burn, and is often called the fresh air damper. Closing 
it wholly or partly decreases the rate of burning. 

The slide or check draft admits air above the fuel and is 
opened to decrease burning. 

The oven damper is used for turning the hot air from the 
chimney to the oven. It should never be closed when the 
fire is new and the fuel smoking, but may be closed after the 
smoke has disappeared. 

The oven is one of the main parts of the range, and has 
iron walls and a tight-fitting door. 

Notice the ash pan. . It should never be allowed to be so 
full that the ashes and cinders pile up against the fire grate. 
This not only chokes the fire, but burns out the grate. The 
ash pan should be taken out and emptied when there is little 
or no fire in the stove. 

Method of Building a Fire. — Brush all ashes from top of 
th© oven into the fire box. Turn the grate so as to dump all 



THE GAS RANGE 21 

ashes into the ash pan. Clean out all ashes and large and 
small cinders from the fire box. Tear paper into rather small 
pieces, crmnple them loosely, using enough to cover the bot- 
tom of the grate. Put in small pieces of soft wood, arranging 
them loosely in crosswise manner. Place hard wood in same 
way, leaving spaces for air to pass through freely, and use 
enough wood to kindle the coal. Put on the covers, and open 
the fresh air damper and the oven damper. 

If the range needs blacking, do it now. 

Select a good quality of stove polish and moisten it with a 
little cold water. Apply it to the range with a dauber. 

Light the fire at the bottom, applying a lighted match to 
the paper, and while the fire is kindling, polish the range witK 
a dry brush, beginning at the parts which are directly over 
the burning fuel. 

When the wood is kindling freely, add coal and never put 
coals above the top of the lining. It is both a hindrance and 
waste to put on too much coal when fire is kindling. 

Close the oven damper when the blue flame has disap- 
peared from the coal and close the fresh air damper and the 
oven damper when the fire is thoroughly kindled. 

If a hot fire is needed for baking, leave the fresh air damper 
open. 

DIRECTIONS FOR KEEPING A FIRE OVERNIGHT 

Rake the fire, put on fresh coal, close fresh air, oven, and 
chimney dampers, and partly open the slide over the fire. 

THE GAS RANGE 

The gas range saves time and labor, does not heat the kit- 
chen uncomfortably in summer, and, if managed with care, 
may be an economical means of cooking. 

Study all the parts of the gas range. 



22 FIRST YEAR 

Find out where the main pipe is which leads the gas into 
the range. Notice the shut-off. 

Notice the position of the gas cocks when open and when 
closed. 

Locate the top burners and the simmerer. 

Locate the baking and the broiling ovens. 

Find out where all the burners are which heat the oven. 

Locate the oven pilot light. 

Cleaning the Gas Range. — See that the burners are clean, 
and that their air holes are not stopped with dust or dirt. 
Draw out the iron sheet under top of the range and clean 
it once a day ; scrub it once a week. Polish the range, fol- 
lowing as far as possible directions for polishing the coal 
range. 

Lighting. Upper Burners. — Open the gas cock, or gate- 
way, in the connecting pipe. 

Open the cock in the pipe that supplies the burner; let 
the gas run a second and apply a lighted match at the top of 
the burner. 

The gas should always burn with a blue flame. 

Oven Burners. — Open both oven doors. 

Open the pilot cock and light the pilot light through the 
hole made for this purpose. 

Open and light first one cock and then the other, and when 
both are lighted, turn off the pilot light. 

Caution. — Never light the oven burners until you have 
first opened both oven doors, as dangerous explosions are likely 
to take place when ovens contain any gas. 

As soon as the contents of a saucepan or a kettle boil on 
the gas range, turn the gas down as low as can be done with- 
out checking boiling. Use the simmerer instead of one of 
the burners when practicable to do so. 



THE OIL STOVE 23 

THE ELECTRIC STOVE 

The electric stove is even cleaner and more convenient 
than the gas stove, but it is not yet within the reach of many 
of us on account of the high rate of electricity. Although 
in some cities the rate of electricity is lowered during the 
day when the current is being used for cooking, even then 
it is more expensive than gas. The heat comes from coils of 
wire which become red hot when the electricity is turned on. 
Cooking utensils containing the food to be cooked are placed 
over these coils. 

There are many electrical utensils, as toasters, chafing 
dishes, tea kettles, etc., which contain the electrical coils 
and can be attached to any lamp socket. These are very 
convenient, especially for light housekeeping. 

THE OIL STOVE 

Kerosene is used in the country in summer where there is 
no gas. In order to burn kerosene it must be vaporized. 
The blue flame kerosene stove is considered the best. In 
most of these the oil is fed into a hollow ring at the bottom 
of the burner where it becomes heated to a temperature suf- 
ficiently high to vaporize it. This vapor mixes with the air 
and bums with a blue flame. 

The stove should be placed in a part of the kitchen where 
there is no draft. Great care must be taken of the wicks. 
Each day they must be cleaned by wiping off the excess car- 
bon with a soft cloth. The cylinders, and the top and bot- 
tom of the stove, must be kept carefully dusted. The tank 
should be refilled each day and never allowed to burn out. 
It will be interesting to make a comparison of the cost of the 
different fuels. 

It has been found that with coal at $7.75 per ton, gas at 
$1 per 1000 cubic feet, kerosene oil at $.12 a gallon, elec- 



24 FIRST YEAR 

tricity at $.10 per kilowatt hour, heat for cooking will cost 
per hour 

0.011 if coal is used. 

0.012 if gas is used. 

0.008 if kerosene oil is used. 

0.057 if electricity is used. 
It appears from the above that kerosene oil would be the 
cheapest fuel ; but we shall find that it takes half as long 
again to cook with a kerosene stove, for the heat is not so 
intense as the heat caused by the other fuels. This must 
be taken into consideration when deciding upon the cost 
of fuel. 



THE TABLE 25 

The Table 

Conditions. — The table should be scrupulously clean and 
attractive. It may be both with very inexpensive furnish- 
ings, for habits of neatness and taste may be cultivated at 
the poorest table with cheap linen and simple crockery. 
Everything on it should be placed in a well-considered and 
orderly manner. 

Table Setting for Breakfast. 

Requisites. 

Dining table. Napkins. 

Dining chairs. Glassware. 

Duster. Dishes. 

Silence cloth. Silver. 

Table cloth. 

Dust the table, and cover it with a canton flannel or felt- 
ing undercloth to improve the appearance of the tablecloth, 
to prevent noise, and to protect the table top. 

Lay the cloth, placing the middle fold upward in the cen- 
ter and lengthwise with the table, and see that all hanging 
corners are equally long. 

Arrange a place for father, which is called the host's place, 
and a place for mother, which is called the hostess's place. 

The host's place is called the head of the table and the hos- 
tess's place the foot of the table, and one should be opposite 
the other. Place the knives at the right of each plate with 
sharp edges toward plate, and the handles one inch from 
edge of table. Place the forks at the left of the plate with 
tines upward and handles on a line with handles of knives. 
Lay the spoons near the knives with bowls up and handles 
on a line with knives and forks. Place tumbler, top up, near 
end of knife blade, and napkin and bread and butter plate 
at the left near the fork. Place a salt and pepper shaker at 
either end of the table. 



26 



FIRST YEAR 



If fruit is to be served at breakfast, it should be served 
first, a knife and a plate being placed for each person. 

Service. — The tea and coffee service should be arranged 
in front of the hostess in the form of a semicircle. 




1, knife, 2, spoon, 3, tumbler, 4, fork, 5, napkin, 6, bread and butter plate, 7, breakfast 

plate. 

At the right, place the following : — 
Coffeepot or teapot. 
Sugar bowl. 
Spoon tray. 

Cream pitcher, hot- water pitcher, or covered jug. 
At the left, place the following : — 

Cups and saucers with handles toward the right. 
Cereal Service. — The cereal dish should be placed in front 
of the hostess with a tablespoon at the right and individual 
dishes at the left. 

Meat Service. — The meat service should be placed before 
the host. 

In front, platter containing meat or fish or other main dish. 
At the right, a carving knife and fork on a carving rest, and 
a tablespoon. 

At the left, a pile of hot plates. 



THE TABLE 27 

Bread and Butter Service. — Plates containing hot rolls 
and muffins should be placed at opposite ends of the table. 

The butter plate, with the butter knife at the right, should 
be placed in front of some member of the family who assists in 
serving. 

After each course is laid look at the table. See if it pleases 
you, and looks well balanced and convenient as to placing of 
dishes. 

The Supper Table. — The supper table is arranged simi- 
larly to the breakfast table, smaller plates being used. 
Sauce or preserves are often served with cake at supper, and 
places should be planned for each. 

The Dinner Table. — The knives, forks, spoons, tumbler, 
and napkin are arranged as for breakfast. A soup spoon is 
added. The usual three courses : — 

1. Soup. 

2. Meat, or fish, and vegetables. 

3. Dessert. 

First, or Soup Course. — In front of the hostess. 

The soup tureen, the ladle with bowl up at the right. 

At the left, the hot soup plates. 

Second, or Meat Course. — The meat platter and the hot 
plates may be arranged as for breakfast. 

The vegetables of this course may be passed by the waitress 
or served by the hostess. 

Removal of Dishes. — After this course is finished remove 
everything but the dessert spoons and tumblers. Remove 
all crumbs, using a tray and a napkin ; or a crumb scraper. 

Third, or Dessert Course. — Place the dessert in front of the 
hostess with a spoon or knife for serving. 

Place the plates or sauce dishes at the left. 



28 FIRST YEAR 



SUGGESTIONS ON SERVING 



The Tray. Purpose. — A tray should be used in serving 
food and in removing the smaller dishes from the table. It 
saves steps and time and allows more delicate service than 
can be given without it. 

Manner of Handling. — The tray should be held in the 
left hand and dishes or plates placed upon it with the right, 
taking care not to rest the thumb on the surface of the dishes, 
especially when serving. Dishes should be ^placed before 
those at the table from the right, and removed from the left, 
removing everything pertaining to one course before serving 
the next. 

Passing Dishes on a Tray. — Dishes from which food is to 
be taken should be passed from the left, holding the tray 
slightly above the level of the table. 

The handle of the serving fork or spoon should be toward 
the right. 

To fill Glasses. — Draw to edge of table, being careful to 
touch the glass near the bottom, put cracked ice in with a 
spoon and fill tumbler to within an inch of the top. In pass- 
ing also place the hand near the bottom, never over or near 
the top. 

Serving. Finger Bowls. — When finger bowls are used, 
put each on a dessert plate with a doily underneath the 
bowl ; place a bowl at the left of each person. 

SOME THINGS TO REMEMBER CONCERNING TABLE MANNERS 

The napkin should be spread across the lap, not tucked in 
at the neck, because no one should eat so rapidly or care- 
lessly as to drop food on her waist. 

The soup spoon should be dipped from instead of toward 
you, because by managing in this way drops are less likely to 
fall, and one does not appear greedy. 



DISH WASHING 29 

Always place the side of the spoon to your lips ; never take 
food from the tip of the spoon as it appears awkward. 

Do not tip the soup plate ; it seems a greedy act. 

Bread should be broken into small pieces, and placed in the 
mouth ; biting into a slice of bread is avoided by all people of 
good manners. 

If your preference is asked regarding food, express it at once. 

The table utensils should not be handled. Keep your 
hands on your napkin in your lap when not eating. 

The spoon should be placed on the saucer, never left in the 
cup. 

The knife and fork should be placed straight on the plate 
and a little to one side, or rested on the edge of the bread and 
butter plate when passing your plate for a second portion. 
Never lay your knife on the tablecloth. 

When food is in the mouth, be very careful to keep the lips 
closed, even when chewing. Do not talk with food in the 
mouth. 

At the close of the meal when all have finished eating, the 
napkin should be folded, holding it while doing so below the 
level of the table. 

The essence of good manners is to look out for the comfort 
of others and to try to anticipate their wants. ^' True po- 
liteness is true kindness." Do not talk to people about what 
you may think to be their bad manners, even if they are your 
young brothers and sisters. You will succeed better by mak- 
ing them desire to be polite than by telling them that they are 
ill mannered. 

Dish Washing, Silver Polishing, Care of the Sink 
AND OF Garbage 
I. Requisites. 

Dishpan half full of hot, soapy water. 

Large rinsing pan partially filled with clear, hot water. 



y 



30 FIRST YEAR 

Draining tray. 
Good soap. 
. Plenty of hot water. 
II. Preparation. 

Scrape all food from dishes and rinse plates and cups. 

Soak in cold water all dishes which have been used for 

eggs, milk, and starchy foods, and in hot water all 

dishes used for sugary and other sticky foods. 

Pile all dishes of a kind together, the largest at the 

bottom. Put silver knives, forks, and spoons 

together. 

Steel knives and forks should be placed with handles 

to the right of a plate. 
Wipe greasy saucepans and frying pans with a soft 
paper, then soak them in hot water. 
III. Order of Washing. 

Saucepans and all other cooking utensils. Then get 
fresh water for : — 
Glasses. 
Silver. 
China. 
Caution. — Change the water in both pans whenever it be- 
comes greasy or cool. 

The handles of knives, if of wood, ivory, bone, or pearl, 
should never be put into water. 

Wash all tinware in hot, soapy water, care being taken to 
remove all substances from seams and corners. Try to avoid 
scraping tinware with a knife. Polish it with pulverized 
scouring soap. 

If any of the silver is tarnished, clean it after washing it 
by rubbing it with soft cloth or cotton waste which has been 
moistened and dipped into silver polish. Allow the polish 
to dry on and rub it off with a soft, dry cloth. Wash the sil- 
ver m bQt; soapy water and dry it with a soft towel. 



DISH WASHING 31 

IV. Recipe for Silver Polish. 

Sift jewelers' whiting through a fine meshed cloth, or a 
hair sieve. Make the sifted whiting into a paste by- 
using water and ammonia. Apply the paste to 
silver, nickel, or aluminum, and let it dry on. Polish 
with a soft flannel cloth. 

Steel knives should be scoured after washing, using 
pulverized scouring soap, Bristol brick, or tripoh. 
Dampen a cork, or a piece of old cloth or cotton waste 
and dip it into the polishing material. Rub the 
blades on both sides until no stains remain. Dip the 
blades into clean, hot, soapy water and dry them on 
a dish towel. 
V. Care of Dish Cloths and Towels. 

Warm water, soap and a small washboard should be 
used in washing dishcloths and towels, scrubbing 
both until all stains are removed. Scald them in 
boiling water, rinse them in clear, cold water and 
wring them well. Shake or pull out all wrinkles 
and dry them out of doors, if possible. 

VI. Handling Dishes. 

Handle dishes so carefully that they will not knock 
against each other and chip. When placing them 
in the rinsing pan, be careful to lay them so that they 
will not slide or fall. When moving them on the 
sink or draining boards, do not push them against 
each other, but lift them and replace them. Avoid 
being a noisy dishwasher. 

VII. Cleaning the Sink. 

Every day remove all particles of food with a sink 

brush and sink shovel. 
Wash the sink with hot, soapy water and scrub it with 

sink scrubbing brush and scouring soap. 
Clean behind sink pipes with a wooden skewer. 



32 FIRST YEAR 

Rinse the sink with clear hot water and wipe the wood 
work. 

Be sure that the edges and outside of the sink are per- 
fectly clean. 

Wash the sink pan and cloth. 

Frequently flush the sink by pouring boiling water 
down sink pipe. 

Once a month use a solution of caustic soda and boiling 
water to clean grease from the sink pipe. 

Iron sinks should be wiped dry and rubbed over with 
an old cloth that has been sprinkled with kerosene 
oil. 
VIII. Polishing Brasses. 

Use any good polish. 

Dip a piece of soft cloth into the polish and apply it 
to the brass. Let it dry on and then polish with a 
dry piece of old flannel or dry cotton waste. 
IX. Garbage. 

Garbage is best disposed of by burning it, or if you 
have a garden, by burying it, as it becomes a good 
fertilizer. Strain off all water and put waste in a 
paper and place it in the ash pan to dry. When it 
is dry, open all dampers in the range and burn it. 

The garbage pail should be kept very clean, and so 
tightly closed that no fly can get into it. 

Rinse the garbage pail with cold water, then wash it 
thoroughly with a strong solution of hot soda water, 
using a child's long-handled broom kept for that pur- 
pose only. Let both broom and pail afterward dry 
in the sun. 

Abbreviations and Measurements 

All measurements in these recipes are level. 

For success in cookery, all measurements must be accurate. 



ABBREVIATIONS 33 

A good recipe correctly followed always gives successful 
results. 

Good cooking is not a matter of luck. Whenever you fail, 
search for the cause until you find it. Be very careful then 
in all your measurements ; follow your directions exactly and 
you will become a good cook. 

MEASUREMENTS OF DRY MATERIALS SUCH AS FLOUR, MEAL, 
POWDERED SUGAR, ETC. 

A Cupful. — Sift the^ material first, fill the cup with a spoon 
or a scoop, being careful not to shake the material down, and 
level it off with the back of a case knife. 

A Spoonful. — Fill the spoon by dipping it into the 
material. Lift it, and level it off with a case knife. 

A Part Spoonful. — Fill a spoon and divide the material 
with a knife lengthwise to measure one half spoonful. 

Divide half spoonful crosswise to measure a quarter spoonful 
and a quarter spoonful crosswise to measure an eighth spoon- 
ful. 

A speck of anything is as much as will rest on the tip of a 
pointed paring knife, or, in other words, a few grains. 

Abbreviations 

tbs. stands for tablespoon. qt. stands for quart. 

ts. stands for teaspoon. pt. stands for pint. 

ss. stands for saltspoon. oz. stands for ounce, 

spk. stands for speck. lb. stands for pound. 

c. stands for cup. h. stands for hour. 

m. stands for minute. 



34 FIRST YEAR 

Table of Measurements 
4 ss. equal 1 ts. 

3 ts. equal 1 tbs. 

4 tbs. equal J cup. 
4 c. equal 1 qt. 

2 tbs. butter equal 1 oz. 

4 tbs. flour equal 1 oz. 

2 c. meat (finely chopped, packed solidly) equal 1 lb. 

2 c. granulated sugar equal 1 lb. 

2 c. butter (packed solidly) equal 1 lb. 

4 c. flour equal 1 lb. 

9 large eggs equal 1 lb. 

Food 

By food is meant something which can nourish the body, 
make it grow, or restore its tissues and furnish it with a 
supply of energy. 

Most food can do this work more easily after than before 
cooking, and most food is improved in appearance and in 
flavor by being cooked. In all cases cooking tends to kill 
germs. So it has become the custom to cook most of the 
food we eat. 

Ways of Cooking. — Boiling is cooldng in boiling water or 
other liquid. 

Steaming is cooking over steam. 

In boiling and ordinary steam cooking the food cannot be 
heated above a certain degree (212° Fahrenheit). 

Stewing is long, slow boiling in a small amount of water. 

Broiling or grilling is cooking above hot coals, or directly 
over the fire. 

Pan broiling is cooking without fat in a hot frying pan or 
on a hot griddle. 

Roasting now generally means cooking in an oven. But 



WATER 35 

before stoves were used it meant cooking before a glowing 
open fire. 

Baking is cooking in a hot oven. 

Frying is cooking in fat enough to cover the food com- 
pletely. 

Sauteing is cooking in a small quantity of hot fat. It is 
often called frying. 

Braising and fricasseeing are combinations of sauteing and 
stewing. 

Water 

Water constitutes about two thirds of the weight of the 
human body. It is most essential to life, aiding in the di- 
gestion and assimilation of food. From four to five pints 
should be taken daily into the system. Water exists in these 
forms : — 

Liquid. 

Gaseous — vapor (steam), clouds, mist. 

Solid — ice. 

Water is spoken of as hard or soft ; pure or impure. 

Hard water contains much dissolved mineral matter. 

Perform experiments to show its solvent power. 

Try to make soapsuds in hard and in soft water. 

Lime is often found in hard water. Boiling causes some 
of the lime to come out of very hard water and settle in the 
bottom of the kettle. After this has happened the water is 
somewhat softened. 

Soft water has very little mineral matter in it. The water 
of different countries and of different parts of the same 
country differs very much in degrees of hardness and softness. 

Pure water means clear water which has no dangerous 
germs in it. Water may be made practically pure by boiling 
it thoroughly. Boiled water should be placed in bottles, 
corked, allowed to cool, and then set in the ice chest to chill 



36 



FIRST YEAR 



for drinking. Water should be boiled unless it is known to 
be free from dangerous germs. 

Water is sterile if it is free from all living germs. 

Temperatures. — Find zero, summer heat, and freezing as 
marked on the schoolroom thermometer. 

98° — Learn by using a thermometer that the normal 
temperature of the human body is higher than any of these. 
It is about 98°. 

180° — From the dairy or kitchen thermometer learn that 
simmering water is about 180° hot, and notice that small 
air bubbles appear on the bottom and sides of the vessel 
containing simmering water. 

212° — The dairy thermometer will show you that the 
boiling point of water is 212° F., and that no matter how 
hard it boils, it does not get any hotter. Notice that large 
bubbles of steam are near the top and on the surface of 
boiling water. 

Cautions. — Keep the inside of water pitchers clean. 
Keep the bedroom water pitchers also free from the slime 
which collects on them unless they are washed and rinsed 
frequently. 

Keep table water bottles clean in the inside. 

Avoid water that has been standing overnight uncovered. 

Never drink water from wells of houses in which no one 
is living. 

Do not use water from the hot- water faucet for cooking. 

Beverages 

tea and coffee 

Your teacher will tell how coffee and tea look when grow- 
ing, what countries raise them, and how each is prepared for 
market. She will ask some of you to copy on the blackboard 



BEVERAGES 



37 



a picture of the tea plant and the coffee plant, and others of 
you to find pictures showing people working in tea fields or 
coffee fields. She will tell you of different kinds of tea and 
of coffee and ask you to locate the countries producing them. 

Because of a stimulating property called theine in tea, and 
caffeine in coffee, young people should not use either as a 
beverage. Older people sometimes use so much tea or coffee 
that it becomes very injurious to them. 

Cautions. — Both tea and coffee should be kept in tightly 
covered tins or jars. 

Teapots and coffeepots should always be scalded before 
they are used. 

Always use freshly boiled water for all beverages. 

Hot tea or coffee should be served very hot. 

Cold tea or coffee should be served ice cold. 



RECIPE I. 

Proportion for each 
cup: — 
1 ts. tea 
1 c. boiling water 



RECIPE 2. 



TEA 

Put the tea into a scalded teapot and 
pour boiling water over it. Let it stand 
on the back of the stove to steep for five 
minutes. It should never be boiled. Strain 
the tea and serve it at once. 

If stronger tea is desired, two teaspoons 
of tea may be used to one cup of boiling 
water. 

RUSSIAN TEA 

Make tea as in No. 1, and serve it hot or 
cold with thin slices of lemon and sugar, 
and without milk. 



RECIPE 3. 

1 c. ground coffee 

2 eggshells (crum- 
bled), or 

I c. cold water 
3| c. boiling water 



BOILED COFFEE 

Mix the coffee, the egg, or eggshells 
(the eggs should be washed before they are 
broken), and J cup of cold water thor- 
oughly. Add boiling water, boil the coffee 
three minutes, and move the coffeepot to 
the back of the stove. Pour a little of the 



38 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 4. 

I e. finely ground 

coffee 
3 e. boiling water 



RECIPE 5. 



coffee into a cup to free the spout from 
grounds ; pour it back into the coffeepot 
and add J cup of cold water. Let it stand 
where it will keep hot but not boil, fgr ten 
minutes. Serve the coffee at once with 
cream and sugar which are put into the 
hot cup before the coffee • is poured on. 
Scalded milk may be used instead of cream. 

FILTERED COFFEE 

Put the coffee into the upper part of a 
scalded filter coffeepot, and pour boiling 
water slowly through. The coffeepot must 
be kept hot while coffee is being made, but 
filtered coffee must never be boiled. Serve 
the coffee at once with cream or sugar as 
in No. 3. 

ICED COFFEE 

Use recipe No. 3 and serve the coffee cold 
in a deep tumbler with cracked ice, cream, 
and sugar, with whipped cream on top. 



Clearing Coffee. — Eggshells should be washed and saved 
for clearing coffee. Three egg shells are sufficient to effect 
clearing for one cup of ground coffee. Salt fish skin, if washed, 
dried, and cut into inch pieces, may be used for the same 
purpose. 



CHOCOLATE AND COCOA 

Your teacher will tell you about the cultivation of the cocoa 
tree and where it grows, as well as of the size of the pod, and 
number of beans found in each. She wiH tell you of the differ- 
ent parts of the cocoa fruit and show you specimens of shells 
and berries. 

You must learn also about preparation of cocoa for market 
under these headings : — 



BEVERAGES 39 

Drying. 

Roasting. 

Removing covering of bean. 

Breaking and selling as cocoa nibs. 

Removal of fat from beans before cocoa is made. 

Cocoa beans are broken into small pieces known as cocoa 
nibs. 

Chocolate is made from cocoa nibs, which contain a large 
quantity of fat ; cocoa is made from nibs from which much of 
the fat has been removed. This fat obtained from the cocoa 
bean is known as cocoa butter. 

Cocoa shells are the outer covering of the bean. 

Both chocolate and cocoa contain much nourishment. 
Cocoa is used as a beverage by young people and chocolate as 
a beverage, and also as a confection. 

Chocolate and cocoa are improved in flavor by boiling for . 
a few minutes. 

Scalded Milk. — 

Use (as substitute for cream). 

Method. 

Appearance. 

RECIPE 6. BREAKFAST COCOA 

1 tbs. cocoa Scald the milk ; mix the cocoa and sugar, 

1 tbs. sugar add one half of the boiling water, and make a 

1 c. boiling water smooth paste. Add the remaining water 

2 c. hot milk and boil the mixture for two minutes ; re- 

move the chocolate pot from the fire, add 
the hot milk, and serve the cocoa at once. 

RECIPE 7. RECEPTION COCOA 

3 c. milk Scald the milk in a double boiler ; mix well 
2 tbs. cocoa the cocoa, sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a 
2 tbs. sugar saucepan ; stir in gradually 1 c. boiling 
1 ts. cornstarch water and boil the mixture five minutes, 
Spk. salt stirring it constantly. Turn this mixture 



40 



FIRST YEAR 



1 c. boiling water into the hot milk in the boiler and beat it 
with an egg beater for five minutes, or until 
it is foamy. Serve the cocoa in chocolate 
cups with whipped cream on top. 



Fruit 

General Composition. — Fruit contains water, sugar, acids, 
and a small percentage of proteid. 

Food Value. — Good fruit is very wholesome, and should be 
used freely, both fresh and cooked. The former, if not eaten 
underripe or overripe, is easily digested. 

The fruits most commonly used are apples, pears, peaches, 
plums, cherries, grapes, bananas, pineapples, currants, and 
various kinds of berries. 



RECIPE 8. 

6 tart apples 
6 tbs. water 
6 ts. sugar 



RECIPE 9. I 

6 large sour apples 
f c. sugar 

1 c. water 

2 thin strips lemon 
rind, or 

8 whole cloves 
* Spk. salt 



BAKED APPLES 

Wash the apples, pare them or leave the 
skins on, and remove the cores. Place them 
in an earthen or granite baking dish. Allow 
1 ts. of sugar in center of each apple, and 1 
tbs. of water for each apple, pouring water 
around the fruit. Bake the apples in a hot 
oven until they are soft, basting them fre- 
quently. Place the apples in a dish, and 
pour the juice around them. Serve them 
hot or cold, and with milk or cream if 
desired. 

APPLE SAUCE 

Wipe, quarter, pare, and core the apples. 
Make a sirup of sugar, water, lemon rind, 
and a few grains of salt, by boiling them 
together for seven minutes. Add enough 
apples to cover the bottom of the saucepan. 
As soon as the apples are soft, lift them 
out with a spoon, and place them in the 
serving dish. Continue until all the apples 
aije cooked, then strain sirup over them and 
serve them hot or cold. 



FRUIT 



41 



RECIPE 10. II 

6 tart apples 
I c. water 
1 strip lemon rind 
I c. sugar 
Spk. salt 



RECIPE II. 

6 apples (pared, 
quartered, and 
cored) 

f c. sugar 

f c. water 

RECIPE 12. 

1 qt. rhubarb 

(cut into |-inch 
pieces) 

2 e. sugar 



RECIPE 13. 



RECIPE 14. 

4 bananas 

1 c. sugar 

1| tbs. melted 
butter 

2 tbs. boiling 
water 

Juice of 1 lemon 

RECIPE 15. 

1 qt. cranberries 

2 c. sugar 



APPLE SAUCE 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core the apples ; 
cook the water, sugar, salt, and lemon rind 
for five minutes. Add the apples and cook 
them until they are tender (stirring them 
occasionally). Remove the lemon rind. 
Pour the sauce into a dish and allow it to 
cool before serving it. 

BAKED APPLE SAUCE 

Put the apples into a pudding dish, and 
add the water and sugar. Cover the dish 
tightly and bake the apples in a slow oven 
until they are soft, and deep red in color. 

STEAMED RHUBARB SAUCE 

Cut off the leaves and the root and wash 
the stalks and cut them into |-inch lengths. 
Put the rhubarb into a double boiler, add 
the sugar, and cover the boiler tight. 
Cook the rhubarb until it is soft ; do not 
stir it, as pieces should be unbroken. 

BAKED RHUBARB 

Prepare rhubarb as in No. 12 and bake it 
in a covered baking dish in moderate oven, 
until it is tender and deep red in color. 

BAKED BANANAS 
Peel the bananas, cut them into halves 
lengthwise, and lay them on an old platter. 
Mix the melted butter, sugar, water, and 
lemon juice together ; pour half of the mix- 
ture over the bananas and put them into a 
slow oven. Bake them fifteen to twenty 
minutes, using remaining mixture for bast- 
ing them. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Pick over and wash the cranberries. 
Put them into a saucepan with the water ; 



42 FIRST YEAR 

2 c. water cover them and cook them for ten minutes. 

Add the sugar and boil them three minutes 
longer. 

Dried Fruits. — The dried fruits most commonly used are 
apples, apricots, currants, raisins, and prunes. 

General Directions for Preparing Dried Fruits. — Wash 
the fruit well in several waters, being sure to remove all dust. 
When the water is clear, put the fruit into a saucepan, cover 
it with cold water, and let it soak for several hours, or over- 
night. Use enough of the water in which the fruit was 
soaked to cover the fruit, and cook it until it is tender. 
Sweeten the fruit to taste and cook it five minutes longer. 

RECIPE i6. STEWED PRUNES 

1 lb. prunes Wash the prunes thoroughly, put them 

I c. sugar into a saucepan, and cover them with cold 

1 qt. cold water water. Soak them overnight and cook 

4 thin slices lemon them next morning in the same water un- 
til they are soft. When they are nearly 
cooked, add slices of lemon and sugar, and 
cook them five minutes longer. Let the 
lemon remain in the juice until the prunes 
are ready for serving. 

Dry apricots may be cooked in the same 
way. 

Vegetables 

Experiments to show the Structure of Vegetables. 

1. Hold a crosswise section of a piece of potato up to the 
light. How many distinct parts can you find? The out- 
side layer is about one fourth to one half inch thick. It is 
slightly colored and turns green when left in the light. It 
is. composed of a woody substance which we call cellulose 
and is denser than the rest of the potato. The next layer 
contains the great bulk of the food ingredients. The inte- 
rior or the core is shaped a little like a star and contains 



VEGETABLES 43 

more cellulose and less water, than the other interior 
layer. 

2. Examine crosswise sections of a carrot, a beet, and 
other vegetables in season. 

Experiments to show the Composition of Vegetables. 

1. Grate a small piece of potato. Place it in a strainer 
and pour cold water through the strainer, collecting the water 
in a bowl. 

2. Allow the water in the bowl to stand — what happens? 
Test some of the sediment with iodine solution. 

3. Mix the contents of the bowl together and boil the 
mixture. 

4. Examine the part of the potato that is left in the 
strainer. Put it in a dry place and evaporate the moisture 
from it slowly. 

5. Weigh another small piece of potato, let it stand in the 
kitchen a few days, weigh it again, and compare its weight 
with the original weight. 

6. Place another piece of potato on a pan, in a hot oven. 
Keep it there until the potato has apparently disappeared ; 
examine any residue that has remained. 

From these six experiments write out the composition of 
the potato. Do the same with the other vegetables in 
season. 

General Composition. — Vegetables contain mineral salts, 
which are important to health, and water and cellulose. 

Cellulose is a fibrous substance which is not digestible, 
but is important because it gives bulk ; some vegetables con- 
tain starch and proteid. 

Food Value. — Vegetables when in season are a very eco- 
nomical item of food, and are always a very necessary part 
of our diet. 

Manner of Growth. — Vegetables may be classed under 
two heads : those growing above ground, as squash, cabbage, 



44 FIRST YEAR 

beans, tomatoes, etc., and those growing underground, as 
potatoes, radishes, turnips, carrots, etc. 

Useful Parts. — Different parts of different plants are used 
as food, as the following table shows : — 

Roots. — Beets, radishes, sweet potatoes, turnips, carrots. 

Tubers. — Potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes. 

Bulbs. — Onions, garlic, etc. 

Leaves. — Beet greens, spinach, lettuce, dandehons, cabbage. 

Fruit. — Cucumbers, squash, tomatoes, egg plant, etc. 

Seeds. — Beans, peas, lentils, and corn. 

Care of Vegetables. — Winter vegetables, with the excep- 
tion of squashes, should be kept in a dry, cold place and packed 
in barrels or bins to exclude air. 

Squashes should be spread out in a dry, rather warm place. 
If dark spots begin to appear on squashes, they should be 
used at once. 

Summer vegetables should be cooked as soon as possible 
after they are gathered. Fresh vegetables are much better 
flavored than those which have been picked long before use. 

Selection of Vegetables. — Select vegetables of medium 
size, small rather than large. They are cheaper because more 
come in a given measure, and better, as the large vegetables 
are sometimes old and tough and poor in flavor. 

General Directions for Preparing and Cooking Vegetables. 
— Select vegetables of equal size. 

Wash them thoroughly, and pare, scrape, or peel them. 

If possible, allow them to soak in cold water a few hours 
before cooking. This is especially important if they are wilted. 

Cook them until they are tender, in freshly boiling, salted 
water, allowing one tablespoon of salt to each quart of water. 

Strongly flavored vegetables, such as cabbage, onions, and 
turnips, should be cooked uncovered, and the water should 
be changed every fifteen minutes, boiling water being used 
to replace that which is thrown away. 



VEGETABLES 



45 



Green vegetables, such as spinach, peas, and dandelions, 
should be cooked covered so as to preserve the color. 

Most vegetables may be acceptably served plain with 
butter, salt, and pepper, or with white sauce. 

General Rule for Seasoning Vegetables. — For 1 qt. of 
cooked vegetables use 4 tbs. butter, 1 ts. salt, | ts. pepper. 
More salt and less butter may be used ; and seasoning may be 
varied to suit taste. 



RECIPE 17. 



RECIPE 18. 

6 baked potatoes 
1 tbs. butter 
I ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 
i c. milk 
1 egg beaten 

RECIPE 10. 



BAKED POTATOES 

Select medium-sized potatoes and scrub 
them thoroughly with a brush. Bake them 
(about thirty-five minutes, or until they are 
soft, turning them occasionally) on the grate 
of a hot oven. When they are done, press 
them in a cloth until the skins break, re- 
place them in the oven three or four minutes 
in order to let steam escape and to prevent 
sogginess. Serve them at once in a folded 
napkin or an uncovered dish. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Cut a slice from the end of a baked 
potato, or split it, scrape out the inside 
with a fork ; mash and season it, and add 
milk, which has been heated, and beaten 
egg, and beat the mixture well. Return the 
mixture to the shell and heat it. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Select potatoes of uniform size. Wash 
them, and pare them thinly ; if possible, 
allow them to stand in cold water one hour 
before cooking. Cook them until they are 
soft, in freshly boiling water to which salt 
has been added. Drain them, remove the 
cover, and shake them over the fire until they 
are dry. Serve them hot. 



46 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 20. 



RECIPE 21. 

6 boiled potatoes 
2 tbs. butter 
I ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 
About 4 tbs. hot 
milk. 

RECIPE 22. 

4 boiled potatoes 

1 ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

Milk to cover, or I c. 
to 1 c. potatoes 

2 tbs. butter 

1 ts. chopped pars- 
ley 

RECIPE 23. 

2 c. pea beans 
I lb. salt pork 

1 ts. salt 

2 tbs. molasses 

1 c. boiling water 



RICED POTATOES 

Prepare boiled potatoes according to 
No. 19. Then pass them quickly through 
a hot ricer and serve them at once. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Mash the boiled potatoes, add the butter, 
salt, and pepper. Add the milk slowly and 
beat the mixture with a fork until it is 
light, white, and foamy. Heap it lightly 
on a hot dish. 



CREAMED POTATOES 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Cut 
the potatoes into cubes and put them into 
milk. Add seasoning and cook the cubes 
slowly until the milk is absorbed (about 
I hour). Add the butter and parsley and 
serve the dish at once. 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

Cover the beans with cold water and 
soak them overnight. In the morning 
drain off the water. Add fresh cold water 
and simmer the beans until they are tender 
or until the skins crack. Drain the beans. 
Scald the rind of the pork, scrape it, and 
gash it into half-inch slices. Put the beans 
into a bean pot and put the pork in, leaving 
only the rind exposed. Mix the molasses, 
salt, and boiling water together and pour 
the mixture into the bean pot, then add 
enough boiling water to cover the beans. 
Cover the bean pot, put it into the oven, and 
bake the beans slowly eight hours, remov- 
ing the cover the last hour to brown the 
rind of the pork. Add boiling water from 
time to time throughout the baking. 



VEGETABLES 



47 



RECIPE 24. 

(For scalloped 
dishes, and cream 
soups.) 

1 tbs. flour 

2 tbs. butter to 1 c. 
milk 

1 ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

RECIPE 25. 

(For cream toast, 
vegetables, fish, and 
meat.) 

2 tbs. flour 

2 tbs. butter to 1 c. 
milk 

1 ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

RECIPE 26. 

(For croquettes.) 
4 tbs. flour 

2 tbs. butter to 1 c. 
milk 

I ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

RECIPE 27. 



WHITE SAUCE 

I. THIN WHITE SAUCE 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with a 
little cold milk and smooth out all lumps. 
Add the flour mixture to the hot milk, 
stirring constantly. Boil it about five 
minutes ; add the salt, pepper, and butter. 



II. MEDIUM WHITE SAUCE 

Scald the milk. Melt the butter and add 
the flour to the melted butter, smoothing 
out all lumps. Add the hot milk very 
slowly, stirring it constantly. Boil it five 
minutes ; add the salt and pepper. 



III. THICK WHITE SAUCE 

Rub the butter and the flour together, 
add the hot milk slowly, and press out all 
lumps. Stir the mixture and cook it until 
it is smooth and thick; add the salt and 
pepper. 

BOILED BEETS 

Select small, young beets. Wash them, 
being careful not to break the skins. Leave 
on the end of the root and about 1 inch of 
the top. Cook them in boiling water, with- 
out salt, until they are tender (2^ hours 
or longer). When they are done, put them 
into cold water and rub off the skins. 
Slice the beets and serve them in vinegar, 
or season them with salt, pepper, and 
butter. 



48 

RECIPE 28. 



RECIPE 29. 



RECIPE 30. 
RECIPE 31. 



FIRST YEAR 

BOILED TURNIPS 

Wash and pare the turnips and cut them 
into one-inch slices ; add salt to freshly- 
boiling water and cook the slices until they 
are soft. Drain and mash them, adding 
butter, salt, and pepper. Serve the mashed 
turnip at once on a hot dish. 

BOILED CARROTS 

Wash and scrape the carrots, and cut 
them into one-inch slices. Add salt to 
freshly boiling water and cook the slices 
until they are soft. Drain them, cut them 
into cubes, and serve them in white sauce, 
or seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper. 

BOILED PARSNIPS 

Treat parsnips same as carrots in No. 29. 

BOILED ONIONS 

Peel the onions under water and cook 
them until they are soft in freshly boiling 
water to which salt has been added, chang- 
ing water frequently. Serve them with 
butter, salt, and pepper, or with thin white 
sauce. 



Time Table for Boiling Vegetables 

The time for cooking depends on the age of the vegetables. 
Asparagus (young), 20 to 30 minutes. 

Asparagus (old), 30 to 60 minutes. 

Beans (string), ' 1 to 2 hours. 

Beans (shelled), IJ to 2 hours. 

Beets (young), 30 to 50 minutes. 

Beets (old), 3 to 5 hours. 

Cabbage (young), 30 minutes. 

Cabbage (old), 2 to 2 J hours. 

Cauliflower, 25 to 55 minutes. 



STALE BREAD 



49 



Green corn, 

Dandelions; 

Onions, 

Parsnips, 

Potatoes, 

Potatoes (sweet). 

Spinach and other greens, 

Squash (summer), 

Squash (winter). 

Turnips, 



10 to 20 minutes. 



50 



2 to 2^ hours. 

2 hours. 



'2 

minutes to 1- 



1 to 2 hours. 
25 to 40 minutes. 
30 to 55 minutes. 
20 to 60 minutes. 
20 to 55 minutes. 

1 to IJ hours. 
40 to 60 minutes. 



STALE BKEAD 



Never throw away old bread, but use it under some of the 
following recipes. 



RECIPE 32. 



RECIPE 33. 



RECIPE 34. 



DRIED BREAD CRUMBS 

Break stale bread into small pieces, put 
them in a shallow pan, and drj^ them in a 
cool oven. When they are dry, roll them 
fine, using a rolling pin on a pastry board ; 
when they are cool, put them into a glass 
jar and cover them with a piece of muslin 
tied over the top of the jar. 

Bread crumbs are used for covering 
articles of food to be cooked in deep fat; 
and also for the top of scalloped dishes. 

BUTTERED BREAD CRUMBS 

Grate or crumble stale bread into fine 
crumbs. Allow 2 tbs. of melted butter to 
1 cup of bread crumbs. Pour butter over 
the crumbs and stir them with a fork until 
the crumbs are well coated with butter. 

CROUTONS 

Cut stale bread into f-inch slices, and 
remove the crusts ; cut the slices into f- 
inch cubes. Put the cubes in a shallow 



50 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 35. 



RECIPE 36. 



RECIPE 37. 



RECIPE 38. 

1 c. bread crumbs 
(center of loaf) 

i ts. salt 

2 c. milk 

1 egg (beaten light) 
.1 ts. vanilla or 
i ts. nutmeg 



pan and bake them in a moderate oven un- 
til they are a golden brown. Turn them fre- 
quently while baking to brown all surfaces. 
Serve them with soups, 

PLAIN TOAST 

Cut stale bread into moderately thick 
slices. Put them into a toaster and move 
it slowly over fire until the bread is dry ; 
bring the slices nearer the fire and allow 
them to become light brown. Turn them 
constantly while toasting. Butter them 
and serve them while they are hot. Avoid 
placing a cover over toast. The slices may 
be made more attractive by being cut 
diagonally and then placed on a hot dish or 
platter. 

MILK TOAST 

Make medium white sauce according to 
No. 24 and pour it over toast. 

BAKED CRACKERS 

Split common Boston crackers and put a 
thin spreading of butter on the inside. 
Put the halves on a tin sheet or pan and 
bake them light brown in a hot oven; 
serve them hot with soup, or cold with 
cheese. 

BREAD PUDDING 

Put the bread crumbs into a buttered 
baking dish. Pour on the milk and let the 
crumbs soak in the milk ^ hour; add the 
sugar, salt, beaten egg, and flavoring. Set 
the dish into a pan of hot water and cook 
in a moderate oven until the pudding is 
firm and brown on top (about thirty-five 
minutes). ^ cup of small seedless raisins 
may be added. Serve the pudding plain or 
with hard sauce. 



STARCH 



51 



RECIPE 39. 



RECIPE 40. 

2 c. bread crumbs 
(center of loaf) 
5 c. sliced apple 
5 ts. cinnamon 
|. ts. salt 
^ c. sugar 
^ c, boiling water 
4 tbs. butter 



CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

Add to No. 38 two tbs. cocoa and omit 
the flavoring. 

Servo the pudding plain or with hard 
sauce. 

SCALLOPED APPLE AND BREAD 
PUDDING 

Wash, pare, core, and slice the apples. 
Arrange the crumbs and apples in alternate 
layers in a buttered baking dish with but- 
tered crumbs on top (No. 33). Sprinkle 
each layer of apples with sugar, salt, and 
spice, moisten it with water, and dot it with 
small pieces of butter. Put buttered crumbs 
on top. Cover the pudding and bake for 
one hour in a slow oven. Remove the cover 
and bake the pudding until the crumbs are 
brown. Serve the pudding with lemon 
sauce (No. 22). 



Starch 

Composition. — Starch is composed of grains, each grain 
being covered with a thin skin. 

Appearance. — Starch, as we know it, is a fine white 
powder. 

Sources, — It is found largely throughout the vegetable 
kingdom, and in abundance in seeds, grains, roots, and tubers.^ 

Food Value. — Starch is a heat giver and a strength pro- 
ducer, and is one of the most important foods. During the 
process of digestion starch is changed into sugar. 

Experiments. — Your teacher will perform experiments 
from which you will learn : — 

(a) Starch mixes with cold water, but is not affected by it. 

(6) Starch should be mixed with cold water to form a 
smooth paste before boiling water is added, or the starch 
will be lumpy. 



52 FIRST YEAR 

(c) Boiling water swells and bursts the starch grains. 

(d) Moisture and heat are necessary to soften starch 
grains. 

(e) The presence of starch in foods may be shown by means 
of iodine which turns starch solutions a beautiful blue. 

Cooking Starch. — All starchy foods require a long, 
thorough cooking at a high temperature to make them 
digestible. 

Agents for Thickening. — The common agents used for 
thickening are flour, corn starch, arrowroot, rice flour, potato 
flour, and eggs ; gelatin, junket, and sea moss are often used 
for thickening milk. 

Starch thickens more than flour, therefore only half as much 
starch as flour needs to be used to thicken a measure of 
liquid. 

Table for Thickening 

1 tbs. flour will thicken 1 cup liquid for soup. 

2 tbs. of flour will thicken 1 cup of liquid for gravies or 
sauces. 

1 egg is used to 1 cup of milk for soft or baked custard. 
1 level tbs. granulated gelatin will stiffen 1 pt. of Hquid 
after the mixture is ice cold. 

DESSERT STARCHES 

Corn starch. Tapioca. 
Arrowroot. Sago. 

RECIPE 41. CORN STARCH BLANCMANGE 

6 tbs. corn starch Scald 21 c. milk. Mix together the 

'3 tbs. sugar corn starch, sugar, salt, and i c. cold 

I ts. salt milk. When the mixture is smooth, add 

3 c. milk hot milk and cook the mixture over fire for 
^ ts. vanilla five minutes, stirring constantly. Cook 

the mixture over boiling water for twenty- 



STARCH 



53 



RECIPE 42. 



RECIPE 43. 



RECIPE 44. 

I c. Irish 
3 c. milk 
Spk. salt 
1 ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 45- 

4 tbs. tapioca 
(" minute tapi- 
oca ") 

i c. sugar 

1 ts. salt 

2 c, boiling water 
I can peaches, or 

1 pt. jar of peaches 



five minutes longer ; remove it from the 
fire, add the vanilla, and pour the mixture 
into a cold, wet mold. Serve it cold with 
cream, or milk, and sugar. Crushed straw- 
berries or sliced peaches may be served with 
blancmange. 

CHOCOLATE BLANCMANGE 

Chocolate blancmange may be made by 
adding I5 tbs. of cocoa to No. 41 and 
omitting the vanilla. 

FRUIT CORN STARCH BLANCMANGE 

One cup of any kind of cooked fruit may 
be added to No. 41 just before the blanc- 
mange is poured into the mold. 

IRISH MOSS BLANCMANGE 

Soak the moss in cold water for fifteen 
minutes. Pick it over, wash it, tie it in a 
thin bag, and put it into double boiler with 
the milk. Cook it about thirty minutes, or 
until the milk is thickened. Remove the 
boiler from the fire, lift out the moss, and 
add the salt and vanilla; pour the blanc- 
mange into a cold, wet mold and set it aside 
to cool. Serve the blancmange plain with 
sugar and milk, or surround it with fresh 
strawberries or sliced banana, and serve it 
with sugar and cream. 

PEACH TAPIOCA 

Soak the tapioca in | c. of cold water 
for five minutes, add the boiling water and 
salt, and cook the mixture in a double 
boiler until the tapioca is transparent. 
Add the sugar. Put halves of peaches into 
a serving dish and sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. Pour the cooked tapioca over the 
peaches and set it aside to cool. Serve it 
cold with cream, milk, or whipped cream. 



54 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 46. 

J c. " minute 

tapioca " or sago 
I c. sugar 
I ts. salt 

1 ts. cinnamon, or 
Spk. nutmeg 

2 c. boiling water 

3 tart apples 



RECIPE 47. 

2 tbs. tapioca 

3 tbs. sugar 
3 ts. salt 

2 c. scalded milk 

2 eggs 

I ts. vanilla 



APPLE TAPIOCA OR SAGO 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core the apples. 
Soak the tapioca for five minutes in ^ c. 
cold water. Cook the tapioca in boiling 
water in a double boiler until it is trans- 
parent, and add the sugar, salt, and spice. 
Put the quartered apples into a buttered 
pudding dish, pour on tapioca mixture, and 
cook it in a moderate oven until the apples 
are tender. Serve it with sugar, cream, or 
milk. 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

Scald the milk, mix the tapioca, sugar, 
and salt ; pour the scalded milk on the 
mixture and cook it in a double boiler 
about fifteen minutes, stirring it occa- 
sionally. Separate the yolks and whites 
of the eggs, beat them until they are light, 
add the beaten yolks to the tapioca mixture, 
and cook it three minutes, stirring it con- 
stantly. Remove it from the fire ; add the 
vanilla and the beaten whites. 



STARCH IN THE FORM OF MACARONI, SPAGHETTI, AND VER- 
MICELLI 

Your teacher will expect you to know something about 
the following points concerning these starchy foods : — 
Food value. 
Where produced ? 
From what made ? 
How shaped ? 
How colored ? 
Combination of fat with macaroni. 



RECIPE 48. 



BOILED MACARONI 

Break macaroni into inch pieces. Cook 
it until tender (about twenty-five minutes) 



STARCH 



65 



RECIPE 49. 

1^ c. macaroni 
I c. grated cheese 
1 c. white sauce 

(see No. 24) 
1| c. buttered 

crumbs 



RECIPE 50. 

2 c. boiled spaghetti 

(seasoned) 
1| c. stewed 

tomatoes 
1 c. buttered 

bread crumbs 



in boiling, salted water, allowing 1 table- 
spoon of salt to 1 quart of water, and using 
enough boiling water to cover it well. 
Pour the macaroni into a colander and 
run cold water through' to keep pieces from 
adhering. Reheat, it ; season it with salt, 
pepper, and butter. Serve it very hot. 

Boiled macaroni may be served plain or 
with white sauce or tomato sauce. 

BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE 

Cook the macaroni as in No. 48. Put a 
layer of boiled macaroni into a buttered 
baking dish, sprinkle over it one half of the 
grated cheese and "add one half of the white 
sauce. Repeat. Put buttered crumbs on 
top and bake it in a moderate oven until 
the sauce boils up around sides of the dish 
and the crumbs become brown. 

BAKED SPAGHETTI AND TOMATO 

Boil spaghetti as directed for macaroni in 
No. 48. Put one half of the boiled spa- 
ghetti into a buttered baking dish, then 
one half of the tomato. Repeat, putting 
buttered bread crumbs on top and bake it 
as directed for macaroni and cheese in No. 
49. 



Cereals 

Group what you are taught concerning cereals under the 
following heads : — 
Food value. 
Composition. 
Kinds. . 

Where grown ? 
Manner of growth. 
Distribution. 



56 



FIRST YEAR 



(The story of Ceres is a pleasing one to write about in your 
language work.) 

General Directions for Cooking Cereals. — Before pouring 
on boiling water,. fine granular cereals should be first mixed 
with cold water to prevent lumping. Always use freshly 
boiling water, and add salt to the water for flavor. Cook the 
cereal directly over heat for about 10 minutes, stirring it 
constantly to avoid burning; then continue the cooking 
over boiling water until it is thoroughly cooked, the time 
depending on the cereal. Coarse cereals should be stirred 
with a fork. 

Cereals may be served with cream, milk, or fruits. 

Time Table for Cooking Cereals 





Ceeeal 


Water 


Salt 


Time 


Rolled Oats 


1 C. 


2 to 3 c. 


h ts. 


40 m. 


Rolled Wheat . 








1 c. 


2 c. 


i ts. 


45 m. 


Cream of Wheat 








1 e. 


4 c. 


1| ts. 


45 m. 


Fine Hominy 








1 c. 


4 c. 


li ts. 


60 m. 


Coarse Oatmeal 








1 c. 


41 e. 


1| ts. 


5h. 


Cracked Wheat 








1 c. 


4 c. 


n ts. 


5h. 


Rice (steamed) . 








1 e. 


3 c. 


U ts. 


45 to 60 m. 


Corn-meal Mush 








1 c. 


3 to 3i c. 


li ts. 


3h. 



RECIPE 51. 

1 c. rolled oats 

I ts. salt 

3 c. boiling water 



ROLLED OATS 

Pick over the oats and remove any par- 
ticles of dirt. Put the boiling water and 
salt into the upper part of a double boiler 
and sprinkle in the oats. Cook it over fire 
for ten minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Cover it and cook it thirty minutes longer 
over boiling water. 



CEREALS 



57 



RECIPE 52. 

1 c. cream of wheat 

I ts. salt 

4 c. boiling water 



RECIPE 53. 

1 c. coarse oatmeal 

1| ts. salt 

4| c. boiling water 



RECIPE 54. 

1 c. corn meal 
1 tbs. flour 
H ts. salt 

1 c. cold milk 

2 c. boiling water 



RECIPE 55. 



CREAM OF WHEAT 

Mix the cream of wheat and salt with 
cold water enough to make a smooth paste. 
Pour on boiling water and cook it over the 
fire for ten minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Cover it and cook it over boiling water for 
forty-five minutes, stirring it occasionally. 

OATMEAL MUSH 

Put the boiling water and salt into the 
upper part of a double boiler. Sprinkle in 
the oatmeal. Cook it over the fire for ten 
minutes, stirring it constantly. Cover it, 
and cook it for five hours over boiling water, 
stirring it occasionally. 

CORN-MEAL MUSH OR HASTY PUD- 
DING 

Mix the meal, flour, and salt thoroughly 
in the upper part of a double boiler; wet 
the mixture with cold milk. Stir out all 
lumps. Pour on boiling water and cook it 
directly over the fire for ten minutes, stir- 
ring it constantly. Cover it and cook it 
over boiling water for three hours longer. 
Serve it hot with cream or milk. 

FRIED CORN-MEAL MUSH 

Make corn-meal mush as directed in No. 
54 ; turn it into a wet bread pan and allow 
it to cool. When it is cool, cut it into 
slices and brown it in hot butter, oil, or salt- 
pork fat. Serve it plain or with butter and 
maple sirup. 



RECIPE 56. 

1 c. rice 
1| ts. salt 
3 c, boiling water 
(about) 



STEAMED RICE 

Pick the rice over carefully, washing it 
three or four times. When it is clean, put 
it into the upper part of a double boiler 
and add the boiling water and salt. Boil 



58 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 57. 

I c. rice 
I ts. salt 
I c. sugar 

Spk. grated nutmeg 
1 qt. or 4 c. hot 
milk 



RECIPE 58. 

1 c. rice 

1 tbs. salt 

2 qt. boiling water 



it over the fire for eight minutes, stirring it 
constantly. Cover it, and cook it over 
boiling water for about thirty-five minutes 
longer, or until it is soft. Press it into a 
cold, wet mold. Serve it with foamy sauce 
(No. 231), yellow sauce (No. 233), cream, 
or milk. 

SIMPLE BAKED RICE PUDDING 

Scald the milk. Wash the rice and put 
it with salt, sugar, and nutmeg into a 
buttered baking dish, and pour on the hot 
milk. Bake it in a moderate oven from 
three to four hours or until the rice is 
thoroughly soft and the pudding is creamy. 
Stir it with a fork every five minutes until 
the last half hour. Then allow the pudding 
to brown. 

One cup scalded raisins added to the 
above recipe improves the pudding. 

BOILED RICE 

Pick over and wash the rice ; add it 
slowly to the boiling salted water, so as 
not to check the boiling. Boil it until it is 
soft (about thirty minutes). 



Scalloped Dishes 

In order to utilize leftover portions of food or to produce 
an attractive and appetizing variety, scalloped dishes may 
be made from fish, cold meats, cold vegetables, crackers, or 
stale bread crumbs ; to which may be added white sauce or 
tomato sauce in the proportion of 1 part of sauce to 2 
parts of bread, meat, fish, or vegetables. 
♦ Cracker Crumbs. — Save the crumbs from cracker boxes. 
Put them with common crackers, roll them with a rolling pin 
until they are fine, and sift them. Plain or buttered they add 
to many of the scalloped dishes. 



SCALLOPED DISHES 



59 



RECIPE 59. 



RECIPE 60. 



RECIPE 61. 



RECIPE 62. 



RECIPE 63. 

1 can tomatoes 

1 tbs. chopped onion 

2 ts. salt 



BUTTERED CRACKER CRUMBS 

Allow 4 tbs. of melted butter to 1 c. 
cracker crumbs, using a fork to stir the 
crumbs and butter together. 



POTATOES. I 

potatoes into slices. 



SCALLOPED 

Cut cold, boiled 
Put a layer into a buttered baking dish, 
cover them with a thin white sauce, and 
repeat, putting a layer of buttered crumbs 
on top. Coyer the dish and cook them in a 
hot oven one half hour. Remove the cover 
and brown the crumbs. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. II 

Wash and pare raw potatoes, and cut 
them into very thin slices. Soak one half 
hour in hot water to remove any bitter 
flavor. Drain them and put them in layers 
into a buttered dish, seasoning each layer 
with salt, pepper, butter, and a sprinkling 
of flour. Add enough milk to cover them. 
Put buttered crumbs on top and bake them 
in a slow oven one and one half hours, cover- 
ing them for the first hour, then cooking 
them uncovered until the crumbs are brown. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS 

Cut boiled onions into quarters. Put 
them into a buttered baking dish and cover 
them with thin white sauce. Sprinkle with 
small pieces of butter. Repeat. Cover 
the top with buttered bread or cracker 
crumbs. Cover them and bake them in a 
hot oven three quarters of an hour, then 
remove the cover and brown the crumbs. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 
Drain most of the liquid from the toma- 
toes, and- add to the tomatoes, the onion, 
salt, and pepper. Put a layer of bread 



60 FIRST YEAR 

1 ts. pepper crumbs in a baking dish, cover it with 

2 c. bread crumbs tomatoes and put buttered crumbs on top. 
4 tbs. butter Bake them, covered, in a hot oven one half 

hour. Remove the cover and brown the 
crumb r. 

RECIPE 64. SCALLOPED RICE AND TOMATOES 

Put alternate layers of cooked rice and 
canned tomatoes in a baking dish ; sprinkle 
each layer of tomatoes with salt and 
pepper. Cover them with buttered crumbs. 
Bake them, covered, in a hot oven until 
the mixture is hot ; then remove the cover 
and brown the crumbs. 



X 



COMPOSITION OF FOODS 61 



Composition of Foods 

Kinds of Food. — Foods may be divided into five groups: — 
Proteids. Fats and oils. 

Carbohydrates. Mineral matter. 
Water. 

Proteids are necessary to life. Their chief office is to build 
up and repair worn-out tissue, although they also furnish 
energy. They form a part of both animal and vegetable 
foods, and as they contain nitrogen they are often spoken 
of as nitrogenous foods. 

The principal proteid foods are milk, eggs, meat, fish, 
cheese, grains, peas, beans, lentils, and nuts. 

Carbohydrates. — The principal office of the carbohydrate 
foods is to furnish energy. They are found in vegetable 
foods and are chiefly starches and sugars ; cereals, vegetables, 
sugars, and fruits are among the carbohydrate foods. 

Fats and Oils. — The principal office of fats and oils is to 
furnish energy. They are found in both animal and vege- 
table foods. Cream, butter, bacon, and other fat of meat, 
fish, olive oil, cotton-seed oil, peanut oil, corn oil, and nut 
oil, are classed among the fats and oils. 

Mineral Matter. — The principal office of mineral matter 
is to furnish material for bones. It occurs in the juices of 
fresh meats, in fish, vegetables, fruits, water and salt. 

Water is one of our main foods and is essential to life. It 
makes up about 70 per cent of the weight of the body, and is 
contained to a greater or less extent in all foods. 

About 2 or 3 quarts of water should be taken daily in food 
or drink, as water is necessary to soften and dissolve food and 
to aid in carrying off waste, and keep the blood in good con- 
dition. Water also assists in the important work of keeping 
the body at the normal temperature of 98°. 



/ 



62 FIRST YEAR 

Milk 
General Composition. — Water. 



casern. 
P^'oteid 1 albumin. 
Fat in form of cream. 

Sugar of milk. 
Mineral matter. 

Experiments. — The teacher should have the pupils per- 
form experiments" which will show that milk contains : — • 

(a) Fat. 

(6) Sugar. 

(c) Albumin. 

(<i) Curd and whey. 

Food Value. — Milk is a complete food, because it contains 
all the necessary food elements in such form as can be readily 
digested and made a part of the body. It is the best food for 
infants and is of great value to almost all invalids. Pure 
rich milk is creamy white. Poor milk is blue white. Milk 
should be sipped slowly, as a solid curd, difficult to digest, 
is apt to form in the stomach if it is swallowed hastily. 

If there is doubt as to the freshness of milk, it should be 
scalded in a double boiler. If it is not fresh, it will soon curdle 
or separate. Milk should be scalded before it is used for 
cooking. Boiled milk is considered hard to digest, but 
hot milk is often given to induce sleep. 

Care of Milk. — Absolute cleanliness is essential in the 
handling and care of milk, as it readily absorbs odors and 
impurities, and collect's germs of contagious diseases. 

Milk may be made unfit for food, especially for children, 
by careless treatment, such as : — 
' (a) Placing it in unclean vessels. 

(6) Exposing it unnecessarily to the air. 

(c) Failing to keep it cool until it is needed for use. 

[d) Exposing it to flies. 



MILK 63 

Sterilized milk is milk which has been kept at the boiling 
temperature (212° F.) for 15 minutes. 

Pasteurized milk is milk which has been heated in sterile 
bottles in pans of water kept at a temperature of 155° F. 
for 30 minutes, and then cooled quickly. This process does 
not affect the flavor of the milk. 

Directions for Pasteurizing Milk. — Sterilize bottles ac- 
cording to the directions for sterilizing jars. 

Bake absorbent cotton in the oven until it is light brown, 
placing it on a rest in a deep pan. 

Fill sterile bottles to the neck with milk. Close them with 
baked cotton. 

Place the bottles on a rest in a pan and fill the pan with cold 
water a little above the milk in the bottles. 

Put the pan over the fire and heat it slowly to 155° F. 

Remove the pan to the back of the stove and keep the water 
at this temperature (155° F.) for 30 minutes. 

Remove the bottles and cool them as follows : first, place 
them in warm water, and let them stand ten minutes, then 
in cold water five minutes ; then in ice water ten minutes ; 
then place them on ice. 

Skim Milk. — Milk from which the cream has been re- 
moved is called skim milk. 

Condensed milk is milk which has been reduced in bulk 
by evaporation. It is preserved by keeping it in sealed cans. 

Junket. — If sweet milk is allowed to stand undisturbed 
after the addition of rennet (a substance made from the 
lining of a calf's stomach), the custardlike substance which 
forms is called rennet custard or junket. 

RECIPE 65. JUNKET 

I junket tablet Crush the tablet and dissolve it in cold 

1 ts. cold water water. Heat the milk until it is lukewarm, 

2 e. milk add the sugar and flavoring and stir it until 
2 tbs. sugar the sugar is dissolved. Add the dissolved 



64 



FIRST YEAR 



ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 66.* 

1 junket tablet 

2 c. milk 
i c. sugar 

I c. boiling water 
I ts. vanilla 



junket. Stir the mixture. Pour it into a 
glass dish, or glass cups and let it stand in a 
warm place until it is set or thick ; put it 
on ice. Serve it Avith sugar and cream or 
milk, strawberries, or peaches. 

CARAMEL JUNKET 

Crush the tablet and dissolve it in 1 ts. 
cold water. Cook the sugar and water 
together until the sirup is golden brown 
in color ; then cool it until it is just warm. 
Heat the milk until it is lukewarm, add the 
sirup, junket, and vanilla. 

Turn it into a glass dish and let it stand 
in a warm place until it is set; then cool 
it and serve it with whipped cream, or 
with cream and sugar. 



Cream Soups 

Cream soups consist generally of a combination of white 
sauce and strained vegetables. The vegetables most com- 
monly used are potatoes, corn, celery, carrots, peas, aspara- 
gus, and beans. 

General Method of making Cream Soups. — Cook vege- 
tables until they are tender, and press them through a 
strainer. Use strained pulp with thin white sauce in following 
proportions : 1 c. strained vegetable pulp to 1 c. thin white 
sauce. If the soup is too thick, thin it with hot milk or 
water. 

If a richer soup is desired, add butter or cream. Serve 
the soup with toasted crackers or croutons. 



RECIPE 67. 

4 medium-sized po- 
tatoes, or 2 c. 
mashed potatoes 

3 c. milk 



POTATO SOUP 

Wash and pare the potatoes, and cook 
them until they are soft ; drain them and 
mash them. 

Put the milk, water, and onion into the 



CREAM SOUPS 



65 



1 c. water 

1 small-sized onion 
cut into quarters 

2 tbs. butter 
2 tbs. flour 

2 ts. salt 

I ts. white pepper 



double boiler and cook the mixture until 
the potatoes are ready. 

Pour the hot milk over the mashed potato, 
put a strainer over the double boiler in which 
the milk was heated, and press the mixture 
through the strainer. Make thin white sauce 
according to No. 24, using 1 c. hot soup 
in place of the milk called for in the recipe ; 
pour the sauce into the soup and cook it 
for eight minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Add the salt and pepper. Serve the soup 
with croutons. 



RECIPE 68. 

1 can corn 

2 c. cold water 

1 tbs. chopped onion 

3 c. hot milk 

2 tbs. butter 
2 tbs. flour 
1| ts. salt 

I ts. white pepper 



CORN SOUP 

Chop the corn and cook it with the 
onion and cold water slowly until the corn 
is soft, or about one half hour. Scald the 
milk. Make a medium white sauce accord- 
ing to No. 25. Add this to the milk and 
cook it three minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Rub the corn through a strainer, add it 
to the milk mixture, boil it three minutes 
longer, and serve it with toasted crackers. 



RECIPE 69. 



CREAM OF GREEN-PEA SOUP 

Cook peas until they are soft ; then 
drain them and press them through a 
strainer. Make a thin white sauce accord- 
ing to No. 24, and add the vegetable pulp. 
Season it with salt and pepper and serve 
it hot with toasted crackers. 



RECIPE 70. 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Wash celery, cut it into small pieces, 
and boil it until it is soft in just enough 
boiling water to cover it. 

Press it through a strainer, saving and 
using the water in which the celery was 
cooked. 



G6 



FIRST YEAR 



Make thin white sauce according to No- 
24, and add the celery and water. 

Season it with salt and pepper and serve 
it hot. 



RECIPE 71. 

Ingredients I 

1 c. tomatoes 

2 ts. sugar 

1 ts. soda 

^ onion (chopped) 
Ingredients II 

2 c. milk 

4 tbs. butter 
4 tbs. flour 
I5 ts. salt 
I ts. pepper 



TOMATO BISQUE 

Make medium white sauce according 
to No. 25, from ingredients II. Put it in 
the upper part of a double boiler to keep 
hot. 

Cook the tomatoes, onions, and sugar 
together for fifteen minutes. Strain them 
and add the soda. 

Combine the two mixtures, pouring the 
tomato mixture into the white sauce. 
Serve it with toasted crackers, or with 
slender strips of toasted bread. 



RECIPE 72. 

1 can tomatoes 
1^ c. cold water 
6 whole cloves 
6 peppercorns 
1 tbs. chopped onion 

1 ts, salt 
Spk. pepper 

2 tbs. butter 
2 tbs. flour 



TOMATO SOUP 

Cook the tomato, water, onion, cloves, 
and peppercorns together until the toma- 
toes are soft, then strain the mixture. 
Cook the butter and flour according to No. 
25. Pour the flour mixture into the soup, 
cook it for five minutes, stirring it con- 
stantly. Season it and serve it with toasted 
crackers or croutons. 



RECIPE 73. 

2 c. cold baked 
beans 

3 c. cold water 
' 1 tbs. onion 

2 c. tomatoes 
I ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 



BAKED BEAN SOUP 

Mix the beans, water, and onion, and 
simmer the mixture until the beans are 
soft. Add the tomato. Rub the mixture 
through a strainer, adding more water or 
tomato to make it the right consistency. 
Season it, heat it to the boiling point, and 
serve it with toasted crackers. 



BUTTER 67 

RECIPE 74. SPLIT PEA SOUP 

f e. dried split peas Pick over and wash the peas. Put them 

3 c. cold water with the onion and cold water into a sauce- 

1 small onion pan. Let them soak one hour, then simmer 

2 tbs. butter them about two hours, or until they are 
2 tbs. flour soft. Rub them through a strainer and put 
1 ts. salt them on to boil again. Add hot milk to 
I ts. white pepper make it the consistency of soup. Make a 
Milk to make thin thickening of the butter and flour according 

to No. 25, pour it into the soup, and boil 
it five minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Serve it with croutons. 

BUTTEE 

Butter is made from the cream of milk, which is composed 
chiefly of little particles of fat. Beating, shaking, or churn- 
ing causes the particles of fat to unite and separate from 
the rest of the milk. 

Butter contains fat, water, proteid (casein), and mineral 
matter. 

Food Value. — Butter is one of the most palatable and 
easily digested of the animal fats. It is made of sweet cream 
or of sour cream. To most people butter made from sweet 
cream tastes very flat and insipid. In America it is usually 
made from sour cream or cream that has been put through a 
process called ripening. 

Cream is ripened by the action of bacteria which thrive 
under certain conditions. If these bacteria have not grown 
and done their work, the butter lacks its distinctive flavor. 

Oleomargarine. — Generally speaking, oleomargarine is 
made from the oily part of purified beef fat churned with 
milk, mixed with some butter, salted, and colored. It is 
clean, wholesome, and nutritious, and looks so much hke pure 
butter that it is difficult to distinguish them one from the 
other. 



68 



FIRST YEAR 



Test for distinguishing Butter from Oleomargarine. — Put 

1 tbs. of the substance into a small saucepan and hold the 
saucepan over a gas flame, stirring it thoroughly with a 
wooden skewer or a wooden spoon. Let the substance boil, 
but do not let it burn. 

Genuine butter boils with little noise and produces an 
abundance of foam. 

Oleomargarine boils noisily, sputtering like fat which has 
water in it, and produces little or no foam. 



RECIPE 75. 
1 pt. cream 
I ts. fine table salt, 
or more if desired 



RECIPE 76. 



BUTTER MAKING 

Put the cream into a quart preserving 
jar. Shake it until the butter separates 
from the liquid. CoUect the butter par- 
ticles with a wooden spoon and press out 
as much buttermilk as possible. Wash 
the butter several times in cold water, or 
until the water is clear. Put it into a dry 
bowl, add salt, and work it well into butter, 
using a wooden spoon. Make the butter 
into shapes or balls. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING BUTTER 
BALLS 

Use small butter paddles. Allow them to 
stand in boiling water about three minutes ; 
then put them into ice water and let them 
stand until they are thoroughly chilled. 

Cut the butter into inch cubes, put them 
into a bowl of ice water. When they are 
chilled, make them into balls by rolling 
them between the paddles. Put them on a 
plate and set them in the ice box to harden. 



Cheese 

Cheese contains proteid (casein), fat, and water. 
Food Value. — Cheese has a very high food value, con- 
taining a large amount of nourishment in highly concentrated 



CHEESE 69 

form. Its concentrated proteid and fat make it somewhat 
indigestible, especially to invalids and children ; but for active 
outdoor workers it is one of the cheapest and most nutritious 
of foods. It is a good substitute for meat, and contains more 
proteid to the pound. 

Your teacher will tell you how it is made and allow you to 
make some, perhaps. 

Different girls in the class should learn about these cheeses. 
Find out at the grocery store how they differ in appearance, 
and learn where each comes from. 

Edam cheese; Swiss cheese; Roquefort cheese; Cottage 
cheese; and Camembert cheese. 

Source. — Cheese, like butter, is a milk product and is 
made from whole milk, skim milk, or milk to which cream 
has been added. 

Process of Making. — Milk is curdled, and the Hquid, 
called whey, is drained off. The curd is then subjected to 
heat and pressure, and certain harmless germs are allowed 
to grow in it. Flavoring and coloring matter are added, 
and then it is sometimes stored for a time in cool cellars. 
This last process is called ripening, and some cheeses are kept 
years to ripen and improve the flavor. 

RECIPE 77. BAKED CRACKERS WITH CHEESE 

Bake crackers, as directed in No. 37. 
Chop or grate the cheese. Sprinkle the 
half crackers with grated cheese, return 
them to the oven, and bake them until the 
cheese is melted. 

RECIPE 78. WELSH RAREBIT 

6 slices of toast or Prepare the toast and keep it hot. Melt 

toasted crackers the butter, add cornstarch, and stir it until 

1 tbs. butter it is smooth ; add the cream gradually and 

1 tbs. cornstarch cook it about three minutes. Add the 



70 



FIRST YEAR 



1 ^ c. chopped cheese cheese and seasoning, stir it quickly until 
^ ts. salt the cheese is melted (and no longer). Pour 

I ts. mustard it over the toast and serve it at once. 

Few grains cayenne 
^ c. thin cream or 
milk 

RECIPE 79. CREAMED CHEESE 

Creamed cheese may be made as in No. 
78, but using 1 c. milk and one beaten 
egg. Add the beaten egg last, cook it one 
minute longer. Serve it on toasted crackers. 

CHEESE FONDUE 
Cook the bread crumbs and the milk 
together, in double boiler, stirring it until 
the mixture is hot and smooth ; add the 
butter, cheese, salt, and pepper, cook it 
about one minute longer and remove it 
from the fire ; add the beaten egg. Bake 
it about twenty minutes in a buttered 
pudding dish or until it is light brown on 
top. Serve it at once. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Cream the cheese and butter together, 
and add the milk ; mix the flour, bread 
crumbs, and seasoning, and add these to 
the cheese mixture. Knead it thoroughly, 
or until it is smooth. Roll it thin as pastry, 
cut it into strips about six inches long and 
one inch wide. Bake the strips on a but- 
tered tin sheet in a hot oven for about ten 
minutes, or until they are brown. 

Eggs 

. Teachers will have the egg lessons in the spring when eggs 
are cheapest. 

Before learning how to cook eggs you should know what 
they cost at different seasons of the year. 



RECIPE 80. 

1 c. bread crumbs 
I c. milk 

1§ c. grated cheese 
1 egg beaten well 
1 tbs. butter 
I ts. salt 

Few grains cayenne 
pepper 

RECIPE 81. 

i c. cheese grated 

1 ts. butter 

2 ts. milk 
4 tbs. flour 

^ c. fresh bread 

crumbs 
i ts. salt 
Spk. paprika 
Few grains cayenne 



EGGS 71 

General Composition. — Eggs contain proteid, albumin, 
water, fat, and mineral matter. 

Food Value. — Eggs, like milk, are very nutritious, con- 
taining in the correct proportion all the food elements neces- 
sary for the body. Because of the amount of proteid they 
contain they make an excellent substitute for meat. 

Fresh eggs when properly cooked are very easily digested, 
and raw eggs are even more digestible. It must be remem- 
bered that the manner of cooking greatly affects the digesti- 
bility of eggs. 

Parts of the Egg. — Notice the white and yolk and see 
how the yolk lies in the egg. Find the membrane which 
incloses the yolk, and the membrane which lines the shells. 

The shell is porous and constitutes about one tenth of the 
entire weight. The white is almost pure albumin and water, 
and is called albumen. It contains some mineral matter. 
The yolk is composed of fat, albumin, and mineral matter. 
It is held in place by two cords attached to the white. The 
membrane covering the yolk is very thin and delicate. The 
membrane lining the shell is tough and strong. 

Household Test for Fresh Eggs. — Fresh eggs should be 
heavy and have a slightly rough shell. If dropped into a 
bowl of cold water, they sink immediately. 

Methods for Keeping Eggs. — When eggs are kept for 
some time, the water inside evaporates through the porous 
shell. Air passes through the shell to take the place of the 
evaporated water. The air allows changes to occur within 
the shell, as germs often erter with it and increase until the 
egg is spoiled. If the purity of an egg is to be kept, the pores 
of the shell must be closed so as to exclude air and germs. 
This may be done in different ways : — 

By coating them with paraffin, vaseline, etc. 

By packing them in salt, bran, sawdust, oats, etc. 

By covering them with limewater. 



72 FIRST YEAR 

By covering them with soluble glass. 

Eggs are also preserved by the cold-storage method, as 
most germs are inactive at low temperatures. 

Method of Breaking an Egg. — To break an egg hold it 
in the right hand and crack it on the side of a bowl, or hold 
it in the left hand and crack the shell by striking it with a 
knife blade; put the thumbs together at the crack and 
carefully pull the shell apart. 

When using several eggs, break them singly into a cup. 

To separate Yolk and White. — After cracking the shell 
hold the egg upright and break shell apart; let the white 
slide off into a bowl and keep the yolk in one half of the shell ; 
slip the yolk from one half of the shell to the other until the 
white has drained off ; then put the yolk into a separate dish. 

Method of Beating Eggs. — The object of beating eggs is 
to get particles of air between particles of egg. 

Utensils. — Wire beater, or Dover egg beater, or knife, 
or fork. The white should be beaten until it is stiff and dry. 
The yolk should be beaten until it is thick and creamy. 

Experiments. — Find out : (1) What effect cold water has 
on albumen (white of egg) . 

(2) What effect water at 160° has on albumen. 

(3) What effect water at 180° has on albumen. 

(4) What effect water at 212° has on albumen. 

RECIPE 82. EGG LEMONADE 

1 ^^^ Beat the egg, add the sugar and lemon 

2 tbs. sugar juice and beat it again ; add the water 
1| tbs. lemon juioe slowly and beat it until it is well mixed. 

3 c. water Strain it and serve it cold. 

RECIPE 83. EGG NOG 

1 ^^K Beat the yolk and the white of the Qgg 

1 tbs. sugar, or more separately ; add the sugar and flavoring to 

if desired the beaten yolk, and add the milk gradu- 



EGGS 



73 



I c. milk 

^ ts. vanilla, or a 
shake of nutmeg 
and salt (a few 
grains) 

RECIPE 84. 



RECIPE 85. 



RECIPE 86. 



RECIPE 87. 



RECIPE 88. 



ally, beating it in. Strain it into a glass. 
Put the beaten white of the egg on top and 
fold it in. 



STEAMED EGG 

Break an egg into a cup, butter a small 
sauce plate and pour the egg into it. 
Sprinkle it with salt. Place the sauce plate 
in a steamer over boiling water, and cook 
the egg until the white is firm. 

SOFT-COOKED EGGS. I 

Put eggs unbroken into a saucepan; 
cover them with cold water, about one pint 
of water to 2 eggs. 

Set the saucepan over the fire, and as 
soon as the water boils remove the eggs 
and serve them in hot cups. 

SOFT-COOKED EGGS. II 

Put enough boiling water into a saucepan, 
allowing one pint of water for two eggs 
and an extra cupful for each additional egg. 
Place the eggs in the water with a spoon. 
Cover the saucepan ; leave it on the back 
of the range for about eight minutes. If 
the eggs are large, ten minutes is necessary 
for cooking them. 

SOFT-COOKED EGGS. Ill 

Put boiling water into both parts of a 
double boiler. Place eggs in upper part 
of boiler with a spoon. Put on the cover 
and let the eggs cook about six minutes. 

HARD-COOKED EGGS 

Cook eggs for forty minutes by the 
method of No. 86, placing the saucepan on 
the back of the range where the water will 
keep hot, but where it will not boil. 



74 



FIRST YEAR 



RECIPE 89. 



RECIPE 90. 

4 eggs 
4 tbs. milk 
i ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 
2 tbs. butter 
1 ts. chopped pars- 
ley (if desired) 



DROPPED OR POACHED EGGS 

Prepare a slice of buttered toast for each 
egg. Have a shallow pan two thirds full 
of boiling, salted water (1 ts. salt to two 
cups water). Place a buttered muffin ring 
or a buttered skimmer in the water. 
Break the egg into a cup. Set the sauce- 
pan back where the water will not boil. 
Drop the egg into the ring or on the 
skimmer, allowing the water to cover the 
egg. When the yolk is covered with a film 
and the white is firm, remove the egg from 
the water with a skimmer ; drain it and 
place it on hot toast. Serve it at once. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. I 

Beat the eggs only until the yolks and 
the whites are mixed. Add the salt, pepper, 
milk, and parsley. Melt the butter in a 
frying pan or the upper part of a double 
boiler ; pour in the egg mixture and cook 
it slowly until it is creamy, scraping the 
mixture from the bottom. Turn it into a 
hot dish and serve it at once. 



RECIPE 91. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. II 

No. 90 may be varied by adding a variety 
of chopped meat, chopped cheese, niashed 
vegetables, etc. 



RECIPE 92. 



CREAMY EGGS 

Creamy eggs are prepared in same way 
as scrambled eggs, excepting that | c. milk 
must be added for each egg. The mixture 
must be cooked in a double boiler and 
stirred all the time it is cooking. 



RECIPE 93. 

4 hard-cooked eggs 
-3 c. medium white 
sauce 



STUFFED OR PICNIC EGGS 

Cut the eggs into halves lengthwise, re- 
move the yolks and mash them. Add the 
meat, seasoning, and white sauce ; press it 



EGGS 



75 



I c. chopped ham, in balls the size of yolks and surround them 

chicken, or other with the halved whites. 

meat 
J ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 



RECIPE 94. 

4 large slices 
buttered toast, cut 
diagonally 

2 c. medium white 
sauce 

2 hard-cooked eggs 



RECIPE 95. 

4 c. milk 
4 eggs 
^ c. sugar 
I ts. salt 
I ts. nutmeg 



RECIPE 96. 

2 c. scalded milk 

2 eggs 

4 tbs. sugar 

Spk. salt 

^ ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 97. 

2 eggs 
i ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 



GOLDENROD EGGS 

Arrange the toast on a platter. Keep 
it hot. Remove the shells from the eggs, 
chop the whites fine and put the yolks into 
a strainer. Make medium white sauce, add 
the chopped whites to the sauce and pour 
it over the toast. Then press the yolks 
through the strainer, over the white sauce 
and toast. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

Scald the milk. Beat the eggs slightly. 
Add the sugar, salt, and nutmeg, and beat 
the eggs again ; pour on the scalded milk, 
stirring the mixture while pouring in the. 
milk. Strain the mixture into buttered 
custard cups. Put the cups into a pan of 
water in a moderate oven and let the 
custard cook until it is firm, or until a 
knife put into the center of the custard 
comes out clean, or, steam the custards in 
a steamer. 

SOFT CUSTARD 

Beat the eggs slightly, beating in the 
sugar and salt. Add the hot milk slowly, 
stirring the! mixture all the while. Pour 
it into a double boiler and cook it, stirring 
it constantly until the custard coats the 
spoon (about five minutes). Strain it at 
once, add the vanilla. Serve it cold. 

PLAIN OMELET 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until they are 
thick and creamy ; add the milk, salt, and 
pepper. Beat the whites until they are 



76 FIRST YEAR 

2 tbs. milk or water stiff and dry. Cut and fold them into the 
1 tbs. butter yolks. (See note, p. 133, to cut and fold.) 

Put butter into clean, smooth omelet pan, 
and when the butter is bubbling, turn in 
the omelet. Let it cook slowly until it is 
light brown underneath. Put it on the oven 
grate to dry on top. When it is dry, slip a 
knife around the edge. Then fold it over 
and serve it at once on a hot platter. 




PLATE A 
SIDE OF BEEF 
BOSTON CUTS 





1 


NECK 




2 


CHUCK RIB 




3 


PRIME RIB 




4 


SI RLOI N 




5 


BACK OF RUMP 




6 


M IDDLE OF RUMP 




7 


FACE OF RUMP 




8 


AITCH BONE 


1 


9 


ROUND 


1 


10 


VEI N 


6 


1 1 


HIND SHIN 


1 


12 


FLAN K 


1 


13 


RATTLE RAND 


1 


14 


BRISKET 


15 


FORE SHIN 




FROM LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



PLATE B 
lOSTON CUTS 



1#'/" ^^ » 




MIDDLE CUT OF Sl-RLOIM 



FROM LOWNEY'S COOK BOOK 



SECOND YEAR 

To the Teacher. — As a good beginning of a second year 
of study of Household Arts pupils should refresh their mem- 
ories of first-year lessons and renew their practice of first- 
year recipes. It is suggested therefore that the first four 
lessons of the second year be spent in such review lessons as 
the teacher may regard as most essential for her class. 

In these reviews pupils should follow the recipes unaided 
by the teacher, so far as possible. Credit should be given 
for the most successful results of independent efforts. 

The teacher is advised to have at least four first-year recipes 
cooked in each of these review lessons. 

As a means of securing additional review practice, pupils 
may be assigned simple recipes to be followed at home. 

Where practicable the teacher should see a sample of home 
cookery done by each girl. Interest and success are for- 
warded by asking girls to have their mothers and fathers 
state on a simple blank form of inquiry sent by the teacher, 
what degree of success was obtained in the home cookery. 

Another successful form of review is found in a competitive 
exhibition of the results of review cookery done by groups of 
girls unaided by the teacher. A small committee of judges 
selected from another cookery class, or from associate teachers, 
should test all the exhibited products and state the merits 
of each, and express an opinion as to which has been the most 
successful group of girls. 



77 



78 SECOND YEAR 

Meat 

Meat is the flesh or muscle of animals used for food. 

It is made up of bundles of tube-shaped cells filled with 
juice. These tubes or fibers are bound together by white 
connective tissue. This tissue is very tough, and the 
greater the amount of it in a piece of meat, the tougher the 
meat is. 

Composition of Meat. — Meat contains proteid in the form 
of myosin and albumin. It also contains fat, water, gelatin, 
mineral matter, and some other substances. 

Food Value. — The food value of meat depends on the pres- 
ence of two classes of nutrients, proteid and fat. Both of 
these yield muscular power and help to maintain the normal 
temperature of the body. White meat found in poultry 
has somewhat the same general composition, but differs from 
beef in nutritive value. 

Beef is the name given to the flesh of ox, steer, or cow. 
The best beef is obtained from a steer about five years old. 
Good beef is bright red, firm, and fine grained in texture, and 
is well marbled with fat. It has a thick, firm, yellow outside 
layer of fat. The best quality of beef has a large percentage 
of fat and a small percentage of water. The inside beef fat 
is white and crumbly. Beef is the most nutritious of meats ; 
it is considered to have the best flavor. Properly cooked, 
it is comparatively easy to digest. 

After being killed, beef should hang in cold storage for 
about three weeks to ripen and develop flavor. 

Mutton is the flesh of sheep. The best quality of mutton 
comes from a sheep three to four years old. Good mutton 
is-a duller red in color than beef, and has a large quantity of 
hard, flakey white fat. Mutton is nutritious and easily 
digested. Mutton, like beef, must hang in order to ripen and 
develop flavor. 



MEAT 79 

Lamb is the flesh of a lamb. A lamb is a sheep less than 
one year old. Lamb is light pink in color. 

Spring lamb is the flesh of a lamb 8 weeks to 3 months old. 

Lamb can be distinguished from mutton by the color of 

the flesh and by the serrated or sawlike bone at the joint in 

the leg; in a leg of mutton the bone at the joint is smooth 

and rounded. 

Lamb is less nutritious than mutton. Lamb may be eaten 
soon after the animal is killed and dressed, but should be 
well cooked. 

Pork is the flesh of the pig. Strips of the back and sides 
of the pig, salted and smoked, are called bacon. The hind 
legs, salted and smoked, are called hams. Pork is difficult 
to digest on account of the large amount of fat which it 
contains. Bacon when cut in thin strips and cooked crisp is 
easily digested. 

Veal is the flesh of a calf. It is the least nutritious of all 
meats and is hard to digest. Good veal is of a pinkish color, 
fine grained, with firm and white fat. 

Cuts of Meat. — The methods of cutting sides of beef, 
mutton, etc., and the terms used for the different cuts vary 
in different sections of the country. 

Cuts of Beef. — The beef creature is first cut into halves 
along the length of the backbone ; each half or side weighs 
on the average about 450 pounds ; then each half is separated 
into the hind quarter and fore quarter. 
Boston markets cut the hind quarter into 
Sirloin 
Tip 1 

Middle [which may be roasted or broiled. 
First CutJ 
and 
Tenderloin, which may be larded and roasted or sliced 
and broiled. 



80 SECOND YEAR 

Rump 

Back ^ 

Middle i which may be roasted or broiled. 

Face J 
Round 

Top, which may be roasted or broiled. 

Bottom, which may be stewed or chopped for 
Hamburg steaks. 

Aitchbone, which may be stewed, braised, or roasted. 

Flank 

Thick 1 

^ , which may be boiled, braised, or corned. 

Boneless J 

Hind shin, soup stock and stews. 

Boston markets cut the fore quarter into : — 

Five Chuck Ribs, which may be roasted or broiled. 

Five Prime Ribs, which may be roasted. 

Neck, which may be stewed. 

Sticking Piece, which may be stewed or used for mince 

meat or corned. 

-r^ , , , !■ which may be corned and boiled. 

Rattleran J "^ 

Fore shin, soup stock and stews. 

The markets offer for sale other parts of the beef creature : 

Heart, which may be braised. 

Tail, which may be used for soup. 

Liver, which may be braised, fried, or sauted. 

Kidneys, which may be sauted, braised, or stewed. 

Brains, which may be stewed or scalloped. 

Tongue (fresh or corned), which may be boiled. 

Tripe (fresh or corned), which may be stewed, broiled, 

or fried. 

Suet, which may be tried out and the fat used for cooking. 

New York markets cut the hind quarter into sirloin, rump, 

and round, which may be roasted or broiled ; bottom of round, 



MEAT 81 

which may be chopped or stewed ; hind shin for stews or for 
soup stock ; and flank, which may be boiled, braised, or corned. 
New York markets cut the fore quarter into rib roast and 
chuck, which may be roasted or broiled ; plate, navel, cross 
ribs, brisket and clod for corning or chopping ; neck and fore 
shin for stews or for soup stock. 

LAMB OR MUTTON 

Lamb and mutton are divided into halves, or sides, bj^ cut- 
ting the entire length of the backbone and then are sub- 
divided into quarters. 

The hind quarter of lamb is divided into : — 
Leg, which may be roasted, braised, or boiled. 
Loin, which may be roasted in a piece, or broiled as chops. 
Saddle, which may be roasted. 
The fore quarter of lamb is divided into : — 

Shoulder, which may be boiled, steamed, or roasted. 
Neck, which may be stewed or braised. 

Care of Meat. — Meat is much affected by the care given 
it when it reaches the home. The wrappings should be 
removed as soon as it is delivered from the market, as they 
not only absorb some of the nutriment of the meat juices, 
but are likely to give an unpleasant taste to it. 

Meat should be kept in a cool place, but it should not be 
placed directly on the ice. 

Before cooking, meat should always be wiped thoroughly 
with a damp cheesecloth wrung out of fresh, cold water. 

Experiments. — 1. Scrape a small piece of lean, raw meat 
with a knife until only fiber is left and observe the fibers. 

2. Cut meat into small pieces, cover it with cold water, and 
watch the effect produced by the water on the meat. From 
this experiment you can learn why it is a mistake to wash meat 
in cold water. 



82 SECOND YEAR 

3. Sprinkle a piece of meat with salt. Describe the result. 

4. Heat to 165° 1 ts. beef juice in a tube; observe the 
result. Compare the juice with white of egg cooked at the 
same temperature. 

5. Heat beef juice to 212°. What effect is produced by 
getting beef juice boiling hot? By raising white of egg to a 
temperature of 212° ? 

What likenesses or differences can you find in the effects of 
heat on white of egg and on meat ? 

Cooking Meat. — Meat is cooked to improve the appear- 
ance and flavor, to kill germs, and to make the tissues more 
tender. 

Tender and Tough Meats. — The lean meat of the animal 
is muscle. If the muscles have had little exercise, the meat 
will be tender. This is one of the reasons why young meat is 
more tender than old. There is more juice to be found, how- 
ever, in muscles which have been very active. The loin and 
rump cuts taken from the back upper part of the creature 
make the choicest and tenderest cuts. Tender cuts may be 
cooked quickly and are suitable for broiling and roasting. 

Tough meat or tough cuts require long cooking and must 
be stewed, boiled, or braised. All tough cuts should be cooked 
slowly for a long time in a covered kettle, in order to soften 
the fibers and connective tissue so that they will become 
tender. Tough cuts of meat cooked properly are very nu- 
tritious as they have a really higher food value than tender 
cuts. 

Methods of Cooking Meat. — 1. Meat may be so cooked 
as to retain the juices. 

2. It may be so cooked as to extract the juices. 

3. Both methods may be combined. 

Cooking to retain Juices. — When broiled, roasted, baked, 
boiled, fried, or sauted, beef may retain practically all its 
juices. 



MEAT 83 

Only tender meats should be used for broiling, roasting, or 
baking. These processes are all accomplished in dry air. 

Roasting used to be applied only to cooking done before 
an open fire. But now when meat is cooked in the dry air of 
a hot oven it is said to be roasted. 

Broiling is done in three ways. First, over hot coals; 
second, broiling under the gas flame in a gas oven, and third, 
pan broiling. 

The secret of good broiling is to expose the meat to intense 
heat ; first sear the meat on both sides, then turn it frequently 
while cooking. 

Time Tables for Broiling and for Roasting 

Steaks 1 in. thick (rare) 6 to 8 m., (medium) 8 to 10 m. 

Steaks IJ in. thick (rare) 8 to 12 m., (medium) 12 to 15 m. 

Mutton chops, 8 to 10 m. 

Spring chicken, 20 m. 

Small thin fish, 5 to 8 m. 

Fish in slices, 12 to 15 m. 

Bluefish and shad, 12 to 20 m. 

Sirloin or beef ribs, 10 to 12 m. per pound. 

Beef rump, 13 to 15 m. per pound. 

Beef round, 13 to 15 m. per pound. 

Mutton leg (done well), 15 m. per pound. 

Mutton loin (done well), 12 m. per pound. 

Mutton shoulder stuffed (done well), 15 m. per pound. 

Lamb, leg (done well), 18 to 20 m. per pound. 

Pork and veal, 25 to 30 m. per pound. 

Chicken, 15 m. per pound. 

Turkey, 10 lb., about 3 to 3i hours. 

Cooking to extract Meat Juices. — Soups, broths, and stews 
are economical. For these forms of food the most inexpensive 
cuts may be used, because they can be so cooked as to sepa- 



84 SECOND YEAR 

rate all the nutritious juices from the tough fiber, while the 
freed juices give a great deal of nutriment to the soup. In 
some cases the fibers can be cooked until tender. But in all 
cases cheap meats can be made to form the basis of 
savory and nutritious dishes prepared according to recipes 
for extracting meat juices. Wholesome remnants of food, 
which would otherwise be lost, may be saved by using them 
in a soup. As only a very moderate fire is needed for cooking 
soups or stews, they may be prepared at less expense for fuel 
than roasts. 

Ingredients. — The following varied list of ingredients are 
used in meat soups : — 

(a) Raw meats : — 

1. Meat. 

2. Bones. 

3. Gristle. 

4. Trimmings. 
(6) Cooked meats : — 

1. Bones. 

2. Trimmings. 

' 3. Left-over portions of meat, 
(c) Vegetables : — 

1. Seasoning vegetables. 

2. Rice. 

3. Barley. 

4. Macaroni. 

5. Spaghetti. . 

6. Vermicelli. 

7. Herbs for seasoning. 

8. Spices for seasoning. 

General Directions to be followed in Soup Making. 
(a) Always use cold water in making soups. 
(6) Bones should be cracked and meat should be cut into 
small pieces in order to allow juices to escape more easily. 




SIRLOIN OR PORTERHOUSE 

STEAK 

A SIRLOIN B TENDERLOIN 

C FLANK 



PLATE C 
lOSTON CUTS 




AITCH BONE 




ROU ND OF BEEF 



A TO P RO UNO 
C VEIN 



B BOTTOM ROUND 
D SHIN 




FACE OF RUMP 



MIDDLE CUT OF RUMP 



PLATE D 

SIDE OF BEEF 

NEW YORK CUTS 




1 


NECK 


2 


CH UCK 


3 


RIB ROAST 


4 


LOI N 


5 


RUMP 


6 


ROUND 


7 


BOTTOM OF ROUND 


8 


HIND SHIN 


9 


FLANK 


10 


PLATE 


1 1 


NAVEL 


12 


CROSS RIBS 


13 


BRISKET 


14 


CLOD 


15 


FORE SHIN 



MEAT 



85 



(c) Vegetables should be washed, scraped, or pared and cut 
into cubes. 

{d) Soup should be cooked very slowly and for a long time. 

{e) The soup kettle should be closely covered to keep in 
the savory odors, and to keep the kettle full of steam. 

Soup Stock. — Soup stock is the basis of all meat soups, 
and may be made from beef, mutton, lamb, veal, or poultry, 
or a combination of all three. It is the essential element of a 
meat soup, giving it flavor as well as nutritive value. It may 
be used, too, in meat gravies when a very rich gravy is desired, 
replacing the water called for in the recipe. 



SOUP STOCK 

Wipe the meat and the bones; cut the 
meat into small pieces ; put the marrow, 
bones, meat, spices, 'herbs, vegetables, and 
cold water into a soup kettle. Soak them 
one hour before heating them. Cook them 
slowly about six hours, and strain. Put 
the soup stock in a cool place. 

When about to prepare soup for the meal, 
remove the fat from the soup stock, heat 
it to the boiling point, season it to taste, 
and add cooked vegetables, macaroni, or 
rice. 



RECIPE 98. 




4 lb. shin of beef 


4 qt. cold water 


12 cloves 


12 peppercorns 


2 sprigs parsley 


1 bunch sweet herbs 


(thyme 


savory 


marjoram 


bay leaf) 


1 small blade mace 


1 c. carrot 




^ c. turnip 


cut in 


\ c. celery 


cubes 


1 c. onions 




2 ts. salt 


RECIPE 99. 


2 lb. neck of mut- 


ton 


3 qt. cold water 


^ c. pearl barley 


\ c. carrot 1 cut into 


\ c. turnip \ |-inch 


\ c. celery J d 


Lice 



SCOTCH BROTH 

Pick over barley and soak it in cold 
water over night; drain off the water. 
Wipe the meat, remove the skin and fat. 
Cut the meat from the bones into inch 
pieces. Put »the bones on to boil in one 
quart of cold water and cook them slowly. 
Put the meat into the remaining two quarts 



86 



SECOND YEAR 



2 tbs. chopped 
onion 

2 tbs. butter 

2 tbs. flour 

2 ts. salt 

I ts. white pepper 

1 tbs. chopped pars- 
ley (if liked) 



of water, let it soak two hours, then bring 
it quickly to the boiling point. Add the 
barley and simmer it two hours. Strain 
the bone water into the broth, add vege- 
tables, and cook them until they are tender. 
Make a thickening with butter and flour, 
add it to broth, and boil it five minutes 
longer. Add the seasoning. 



RECIPE 100. 

2 lb. mutton, fore 

quarter or neck 
1^ qt. cold water 

1 small onion 

2 tbs. barley or rice 
1 ts. salt 

Spk. pepper 



MUTTON BROTH 

Wipe the meat, remove the fat and skin, 
and cut the meat into inch pieces. Put the 
bones and meat into cold water and let 
them stand one hour ; add the onion, and 
the washed barley or rice, and cook the 
mixture slowly about three and a half hours. 
If water boils away during cooking, add 
boiling water. Remove the bones and 
meat, and add the seasoning. 



RECIPE 1 01. 

1 lb. beef (lower 
part of round) 

2 c. cold water 
Salt to season 



BEEF TEA 

Chop the meat fine and put it into a 
large glass jar; add the water and let it 
stand one half hour. Cover the jar, place 
it on a stand or trivet in a kettle and sur- 
round it with cold water. Allow the water 
to heat slowly to about 155° F. (no higher) 
and keep it at this temperature at least 
two hours. Strain the liquid, remove the 
fat, let it cool, and add salt to taste. Re- 
heat the beef tea in the jar to 155° F. and 
serve it in heated cups. 



■ Stewing. — The purpose of stewing is to cook meat in 
such a way that all its nutriment may be utilized. 

Materials for a Stew. — Tough meats containing some fat 
and bone are best for this purpose. Vegetables are used chiefly 
to give flavor. Dumplings are often served with a stew. 



MEAT 



87 



Method of Stewing Meat. — A stew should be cooked on a 
part of the range where the water can be kept below the boil- 
ing point. 

The meat and vegetables should be just covered with water 
and cooked slowly for a long time. 

To accomplish the extracting of the meat juices for a stew 
the poorer meat and the bones are put into cold water. The 
best portions are browned in a hot frying pan, which helps to 
retain their juices. They are then added to the stew. 



RECIPE 102. 

2 lb. beef (cut into 

inch cubes) 
4 tbs. flour 
1 carrot 1 cut into |- 

1 turnip J inch dice 

2 medium onions 
sHced 

3 medium potatoes 
sliced 

Water 

Salt and pepper to 
season 



BEEF STEW 

Wipe the meat and cut the best portions 
into inch cubes. Put the bone and poorer 
portions of meat, cut fine, into cold water 
enough to cover them, and cook them 
slowly. Try out some pieces of beef fat 
in a frying pan and remove the scraps. 
Roll the best portions of meat in flour; 
put them into a frying pan and cook them 
until they are brown (stirring them with a 
knife so that all surfaces may be browned). 
Brown the onions also. Put the meat and 
onions into the kettle in which the stew is 
to be cooked ; rinse out the frying pan with 
hot water and turn the water into the stew. 
Cover the meat with boiling water and cook 
it slowly at least two hours or until the 
meat is tender. Remove the bone and 
poorer portions of meat, strain the liquid 
into stew, add the vegetables (excepting 
potatoes), and cook the stew about forty 
minutes longer. 

Parboil the potatoes for five minutes and 
add them to stew and cook it fifteen 
minutes. Add the seasoning. 

If the stew is not thick enough, add a 
little thickening of flour and water and boil 
it five minutes longer. 



88 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 103. 

2 lb. lamb from 
shoulder 

3 c. boiling water 

2 small potatoes, 
washed, pared, 
and cut into |- 
inch cubes 

1 small onion 

(sliced) 

2 tbs. rice (washed) 
1 c. strained tomato 
Salt and pepper to 

taste 



LAMB STEW 

Wipe the meat and cut the best portions 
into two-inch pieces. 

Put the bone and poorer portions of 
meat into cold water, let them stand one 
half hour, then cook them slowly. 

Brown the onions golden brown in hot 
fat in a frying pan, then add the best por- 
tions of meat and brown them also. Put 
the onions and meat into a saucepan, cover 
them with boiling water, and let it simmer 
two hours. Add the washed rice when the 
meat has cooked one hour. Parboil the 
potatoes, add them to the stew and cook it 
twenty minutes longer. Add the strained 
tomato ten minutes after the potatoes are 
put in. Add the seasoning. 

The tomato may be omitted, and boiling 
water used in its place. 



Cooking to retain Meat Juices. — In broiling, roasting, 
frying, and sauteing, cooking is so done as to sear over at 
once the outside of the meat. This seals up the little tube- 
like cells, so that the meat juices cannot leak out. Since all 
the meat is to be eaten, and as these ways of cooking will not 
allow the meat to be long exposed to heat, only the choice and 
tender cuts can be used. Expensive cuts, then, quickly cooked 
by a hot fire are the essentials for successful broiling, roasting, 
and sauteing. 



RECIPE 104. 



BROILED STEAK 

Wipe the meat and cut off any extra fat. 
Grease the broiler with a piece of meat 
fat, and place the meat in the broiler with 
the fat edge near the handle. 

Hold the broiler close to the coals and 
sear both sides of the meat. Then lift the 
broiler a little distance from the fire so as 
to avoid burning. 



MEAT 



89 



RECIPE 105. 



RECIPE 106. 



RECIPE 107. 



RECIPE 108. 



The meat should be turned every ten 
seconds for first three minutes, then occa- 
sionally until the meat is cooked. Place 
it on a hot platter and season it with salt, 
pepper, and butter, omitting butter if the 
meat is very fat. 

A steak about one and one half inches 
thick requires about twelve minutes for 
broiling. 

BROILED MEAT CAKES OR HAM- 
BURG STEAK 

Buy meat from lower part of the round. 
Chop it fine, and season it with salt, 
pepper, and onion juice. Form the meat 
into cakes about one inch thick. Broil them 
over the fire in a greased broiler, following 
directions of No. 104; or, the cakes may 
be pan broiled. 

PAN-BROILED CHOPS 

Heat a frying pan very hot. 

Wipe the chops and trim them. Put 
them into a hot frying pan and turn them 
every ten seconds for three minutes. Then 
cook them more slowly, turning them occa- 
sionally, until they are done. The average- 
sized chop requires about eight minutes. 

SAUTED PORK CHOPS 

Pork chops should be about one half 
inch thick. Wipe them and cook in a hot 
frymg pan according to directions for pan- 
broiled chops. 

Pork chops require about twenty minutes 
for thorough cooking and may be baked in 
the oven for twenty minutes or broiled over 
a moderate fire. 

VEAL CUTLETS 

Select slices of veal which are about 
one hall inch thick, from the leg. Wipe 



90 SECOND YEAR 

them, remove the skin and bone, and cut 
them into pieces suitable for serving. 
Sprinkle them with salt and pepper. Dip 
them into crumbs, egg, etc., according to 
No. 109. Cook them in oil or pork fat until 
they are brown. Put the cutlets into a 
stewpan and pour over them just enough 
brown sauce to cover. Cover the stewpan 
and let them cook slowly until the meat is 
tender. 

Take out any poor or stringy pieces and 
put them into cold water to cook and use 
the liquor for sauce. 

RECIPE 109. LIVER AND BACON 

Remove the rind and cut the bacon into 
very thin slices. 

Cut the liver into slices one third of an 
inch thick. Dip each slice into boiling 
water, and remove the skin and veins, wipe 
the slices dry, and sprinkle them with salt 
and pepper. 

Cook the bacon in a hot frying pan, or 
in a pan in the oven, until it is crisp. 
When it is done, place it in a dish and keep 
it hot. 

Cook the liver in hot bacon fat, turning the 
slices occasionally until they are brown on 
both sides. Avoid cooking the liver too 
much. Place it on a dish with the bacon, 
arranging the liver in the center and the 
bacon about the edge. 

Make a gravy according to No. 116 and 
pour it over the liver. 

* Roasting retains the juice of the meat and develops a 
special flavor. This form of cooking is suitable only for 
tender meats. 

Wipe the meat ; trim and skewer it into shape ; all meat for 
baking or roasting should be dredged all over with flour and 



MEAT 



91 



salt just before placing it in the oven. Place the roast on a 
rack in a baking pan. 

Have the oven very hot and keep it so until the surface of 
the meat is seared. Then reduce the temperature and cook 
more slowly according to directions in the time table for 
roasting. Baste the meat every quarter of an hour. 



RECIPE no. 

3 lb. beef from the 

round 
I c. salt pork cut 

into |-inch cubes 
1 small carrot sliced 

1 small turnip sliced 

2 small onions sliced 
1 doz. peppercorns 
Flour, salt, and 

pepper 
Water to cover 



BRAISED BEEF 

Wipe meat and dredge with flour. Cook 
the pork cubes in a kettle until they are 
brown, and then remove the scraps. Put 
the meat into the hot fat and brown all the 
surfaces. Add peppercorns, vegetables, 
and seasoning, and boiling water enough to 
cover the beef. Cover the pan and cook 
the meat in a moderate oven about four 
hours. Baste the meat frequently. Thicken 
the liquid, season it to taste, and serve it 
with the meat. 



RECIPE III. 



RECIPE 112. 



MEAT LOAF 

Remove the skin, gristle, and bone from 
two pounds beef (lower part of the round) 
and chop the meat fine. Measure the meat 
and allow an equal quantity of bread 
crumbs; mix the two and add seasoning 
to taste. Moisten the mixture with soup 
stock, milk, or water. Add one beaten egg 
for each pint of the mixture. Pack it into 
a buttered brick-loaf pan, place the pan 
in a pan of hot water, put it into the oven 
and cook it until the loaf is firm in the 
center. Turn it out on a hot platter and 
serve it with tomato sauce or white sauce. 

BOILED FRESH MEAT 

Wipe the meat and remove any extra 
fat. Put the meat into a large saucepan 
on the stove. The pan must contain 



92 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 113. 



RECIPE 114. 

5 lb. corned beef 

1 small cabbage 

2 turnips 

2 carrots (if liked) 

4 beets 

8 medium potatoes 



enough boiling water to cover the meat 
entirely. Cover the saucepan and allow the 
water to boil for ten minutes. Lower the 
temperature, placing the saucepan on a part 
of the range where the water will simmer, 
until the meat is tender. 

Allow about fifteen minutes for each 
pound of meat after the temperature is 
lowered. 

BOILED SALT OR SMOKED MEATS 

Hams should be soaked in cold water 
overnight before cooking. All salt or 
smoked meat should have its fat scraped, 
and the meat itself should be washed in 
cold water. 

Then place the meat in a large saucepan 
and cover it with cold water. Heat it 
slowly to the boiling point, boil it eight 
minutes, then cook it slowly until it is 
tender. 

The average time for salt meat is thirty 
minutes to a pound, and it is well to allow 
it to stand in the water in which it is 
cooked until it is nearly cool. 

BOILED DINNER 

Wipe the meat thoroughly, put it into 
kettle, cover it with cold water, and let it 
come to the boiling point. Then let it 
simmer about two and one half hours, or 
until it is tender. Prepare the vegetables ; 
cut the cabbage into quarters ; slice turnips 
and carrots into half inch slices. An hour 
and a half before dinner time skim off the 
fat from the liquid, add the cabbage, 
turnip, and carrots, and an hour later add 
the potatoes. Cook the beets separately. 
When the vegetables are tender, remove 
them carefully and drain off the water 
from the cabbage by pressing it in a col- 




RUMP OF BEEF 



PLATE E 
NEW YORK CUTS 




LOI N OF BEEF 



PLATE F 
BOSTON CUTS 




SIDE OF LAM B 



\a. 



FOREQUARTER OF LAMB 



MEAT 



93 



lander. Slice the beets, and cover the 
slices with vinegar. 

If the beef is very salt, soak it in cold 
water one hour before cooking. 

Sauces or Gravies for Roasts and Boiled Meats 



RECIPE 115. 



RECIPE 116. 



GRAVY, FOR ROAST BEEF, ROAST 
MUTTON, OR LAMB 

When a meat roast is baking, some of 
the juice and fat collects in the roasting 
pan. To make use of these nutritious sub- 
stances which are of excellent flavor, house- 
keepers add milk or water and flour to 
dilute them somewhat and prepare various 
sauces or gravies. When a roast is not 
over fat, the plain pan gravy slightly di- 
luted makes an excellent sauce. When 
roasts are very fat, an overrich gravy may 
be avoided by letting the pan gravy cool 
until some of the fat can be removed from 
the top. 

ROAST BEEF GRAVY 

Pour all but 4 tbs. of fat from the pan in 
which meat was roasted. Put the pan over 
the fire, add slowly 4 tbs. flour, mixing it 
with the fat, and stir it until the mixture is 
well browned and smooth. Add gradually 
2 c. boiling water, pressing out the lumps 
and boil it five minutes, stirring it con- 
stantly ; strain it and season it to taste. 



RECIPE 117. 
2 tbs. butter 
4 tbs. flour 
2 c. boiling liquid in 

which meat was cooked 
Few drops onion juice 
2 tbs. capers 
I ts. salt 
Few grains cayenne 



CAPER SAUCE FOR BOILED MUTTON 
Make this sauce according to No. 25, 
then add the capers and serve it very hot. 



94 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE ii8. 

1 small bunch mint 
1 tbs. powdered 

sugar 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
I c. vinegar 

RECIPE 119. 



RECIPE 120. 

1 tbs. butter 

2 tbs. flour 

1 c. water or stock 
1 c. stewed tomato 
^ ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 
1 ts. Worcestershire 
sauce 

RECIPE 121. 

I can tomato 
1 slice onion 

1 ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

2 tbs. butter 
2 tbs. flour 



MINT SAUCE 
Wash the mint thoroughly, remove the 
leaves, and chop them fine ; add the sugar, 
lemon juice, and vinegar ; let it stand one 
half hour on the back of the range. Serve it 
hot or cold. 

GIBLET GRAVY FOR ROAST TURKEY, 
ETC. 

Clean and cook the giblets (liver, heart, 
and gizzard) until they are tender and chop 
them fine. Save the water in which the 
giblets were cooked. Pour off the liquid 
in the pan in which the turkey was roasted, 
and skim off about 6 tbs. fat ; return the 
fat to the roasting pan, add 6 tbs. flour and 
stir it until the flour is well browned ; add 
slowly the giblet water and enough boiling 
water to make the consistency of medium 
white sauce, being careful to press out all 
lumps. Boil it five minutes, stirring it 
constantly ; strain it and add seasoning. 
Add the chopped giblets and serve it very 
hot. 

BROWN SAUCE 

Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir it 
until it is browned. Add gradually the 
water or stock, pressing out all lumps ; add 
the tomato and seasoning. 



TOMATO SAUCE 

Stew the tomato and onion for fifteen 
minutes ; rub them through a strainer. 
Use the butter, flour, and 1 c. of strained 
tomato according to No. 25. Add the 
strained tomato to the sauce and boil it 
five minutes. 



MEAT 95 



Poultry 



The name " poultry " is given the flesh of domestic birds. 

Birds of all kinds are best when young. In selecting a 
chicken, choose one having soft cartilage at the end of the 
breastbone. Smooth skin, soft feet, and an abundance of 
pinfeathers are three other indications that the bird is young 
and tender. 

In selecting a turkey, choose a short, plump bird having 
smooth, dark legs, and a soft gristly cartilage at the end of the 
breastbone. A cock turkey is better than a hen turkey unless 
the hen turkey is young, small, and plump. 

All fowls are best if short and plump, with smooth legs and 
short blunt spurs. The black-legged ones are likely to be the 
more juicy. 

CI eaning Poultry. — Cut off the head and the feet and re- 
move any pin feathers without breaking the skin. Turn 
down the skin of the neck and cut off the neck close to the 
body ; pull out the windpipe and the crop. Make an inci- 
sion below the breastbone. Insert the hand slowly and 
firmly between the entrails and the wall of the body of the 
bird, then draw them out, being careful not to break the 
gall bladder. Lay them on the board; detach the heart 
and the gizzard. Split the gizzard to the lining and peel off 
the flesh without breaking the lining. Trim the heart. Care- 
fully remove the gall bladder from the liver. Cut out the oil 
bag from the tail. Singe the bird by holding it over burning 
paper. Wash it thoroughly inside and outside. Dry it well 
and prepare it for roasting, broiling, etc. 

RECIPE 122. ROAST CHICKEN 

Remove any pin feathers and clean, 
singe, stuff, and truss the chicken. Place 
it on its back and rub the entire surface 
with 1 ts. salt, 3 tbs. butter, and 3 tbs. flour 
which have been creamed together. Put 



96 



SECOND YEAR 



the ehieken into a hot oven and bake it 
until it is brown, then reduce the tempera- 
ture ; baste it every ten minutes until it is 
cooked. When the meat is tender, the 
chicken is done. A 4-lb. chicken takes 
from 1| hr. to 1| hr. for cooking. 
For basting use 3 tbs. salt pork fat, or butter mixed with 1 e. 

boiling water. When this is used up, baste with the liquid in the 

pan. 



RECIPE 123. 

2 c. stale-bread 

crumbs, or 
1 c. cracker crumbs 
1 ts. sage or poultry- 
seasoning 

1 ts. chopped onion 

(if liked) 

2 tbs. butter 

I c. boiling water 
1 ts. salt 
Spk. pepper 

RECIPE 124. 



STUFFING FOR CHICKEN 

Mix the crumbs, seasoning, and onion. 
Mix the water and butter. Pour the water 
mixture over the crumbs. 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Clean, wash, and singe the chicken ; cut 
it into pieces suggested by the joints of the 
bird. Sprinkle the pieces with salt and 
pepper, dredge them with flour, and cook 
them in hot salt pork fat until they are 
golden brown. Then put them into a stew 
pan, cover them with boiling water and 
cook them until the meat is tender. Make 
a brown sauce by melting 2 tbs. butter 
and adding to it 2 tbs. flour, stirring until 
the mixture is brown. Add enough of the 
broth in which the meat was cooked to 
make it the consistency of medium white 
sauce. 

Veal may be used instead of chicken in 
this recipe, selecting meat from breast or 
neck. 



MEAT 97 

Warmed-over Meats. — It is important for every girl 
old enough to cook, to learn to prepare nutritious, tempting, 
appetizing dishes from left-over pieces of meat and fish. 
Meat is very expensive unless every particle of nutriment is 
made use of. No bit of meat should be thrown away. 

Preparation. — Different kinds of meat may be combined in 
making warmed-over dishes. First remove all skin, extra fat, 
gristle, and bone. Then select one of the following recipes, 
and you will have a second serving different from the first, 
but equally nutritious. If hash and croquettes are to be made, 
the meat should be finely chopped. For other dishes it may 
be cut into small, thin pieces. Water in which meat has been 
cooked should always be saved, as it, as well as soup stock, 
gravy, or sauces, may be used to flavor, moisten, and enrich 
dishes made from left overs. 

RECIPE 125. BROWNED HASH 

2 c. cold roast beef Mix all the ingredients thoroughly. Put 

(chopped fine), or into a frying pan 2 tbs. of beef fat or butter, 

2 c. cold corned beef and 2 tbs. boiling water. Spread the meat 

(chopped fine) mixture in the frying pan. 

2 c. mashed potato Cook it without stirring it, over a moder- 

2 tbs. boiling water, ate fire for about thirty minutes. When 

or enough to it is browned underneath, fold it over like 

moisten an omelet and place it on a hot platter. 

A few drops of onion 
juice 

Salt and pepper to taste 

RECIPE 126. COTTAGE PIE 

Butter a baking dish, put on a thin layer 
• of mashed potato, add a thick layer of cold 

roast beef, cut in thin pieces, sprinkle it with 
salt and pepper ; moisten it with meat gravy. 
Put a thin layer of mashed or riced potato 
on top, cover it, and bake it in a hot 
oven long enough to heat it through ; then 
remove the cover and brown the potato. 



98 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 127. 



RECIPE 128. 



RECIPE 129. 



RECIPE 130. 

2 c. cooked meat cut 
into small pieces 

2 c. cooked maca- 
roni, rice, or bread 
crumbs 

1 c. tomato sauce 

5 c. buttered crumbs 



RECIPE 131. 

2 c. chopped meat 
I ts. salt 



ROAST MEAT WARMED IN GRAVY 

Cut the meat into thin slices. Heat the 
gravy to boiling point ; add the meat, and 
cook it just long enough to heat it thor- 
oughly. Season it to taste and serve it at 
once. 

DRIED BEEF WITH WHITE SAUCE 

Make medium white sauce according to 
No. 25. Remove the skin from the meat 
and separate the meat into pieces ; cover it 
with cold water, let it stand about ten 
minutes, then drain it. Add the beef to 
the sauce and cook it just long enough to 
heat the meat. Season it and serve it. 

One quarter pound of dried beef is used, 
to 1 c. of white sauce. 

MINCED LAMB ON TOAST 

Toast small slices of bread and place 
them where they will keep hot. Remove 
the skin and gristle from the lamb, and 
chop the meat. Add enough gravy or 
stock to moisten the chopped meat. 
Season it with salt, pepper, and celery salt. 
Heat it thoroughly and place it on the 
slices of toast. Arrange them on a platter. 

SCALLOPED MUTTON OR LAMB 

Butter a baking dish. Put a layer of 
macaroni, rice, or bread crumbs in the dish, 
then a layer of meat sprinkled with salt, 
pepper, and tomato sauce ; repeat, and put 
buttered crumbs on top. Bake it in a hot 
oven about thirty minutes or until it is thor- 
oughly heated through. Cover it for first 
twenty minutes, then remove the cover and 
allow the crumbs to brown. 

MEAT CROQUETTES 

To the chopped cold meat add the season- 
ing and yolk of egg, and enough of the 



GELATIN 99 

Spk. pepper thick white sauce to moisten it. Cool the 

Few grains cayenne mixture and shape it. ■ Dip the shapes into 

Few drops onion egg and crumbs and fry them in deep fat, as 

juice directed on page 115. 
Yolk 1 egg The general rule for meat or fish cro- 

f to 1 c. thick white quettes is 2 parts of chopped meat or fish 

sauce to 1 part of thick white sauce. 

Gelatin 

A Proteid. — Gelatin is classed with proteid foods. It is 
found in the bones, skin, tendons, connective tissues, etc., of 
animals. Especially large quantities are found in the con- 
nective tissues of young animals. It is obtained by boiling the 
parts containing it in water for a long time. The purest 
form of gelatin, isinglass, is obtained from the swimming 
bladder of the sturgeon and other fish. Calves' feet also fur- 
nish a good quality of isinglass. 

Gelatin is transparent and tasteless. It is prepared for 
market either in sheets or in granulated form. 

Three Important Facts about Gelatin. — Gelatin does not 
dissolve in cold water ; cold water only softens and swells it. 
But it does dissolve in boiling water. And third, it stiffens 
when put in a cold place. 

General Directions for making Jellies with Gelatin. — 
Granulated gelatin requires the shortest time for preparing. 

One ounce of gelatin should stiffen one quart of liquid. 

When about to use gelatin in any recipe calling for its use, 
observe these five directions in the order given below : — 

1. Soak the gelatin in cold water to soften it. 

2. Add boiling water and sugar and stir it until it is dis- 
solved. 

3. Add flavoring or fruit juice. 

4. Strain* it through a wet cheesecloth or fine strainer into 
a cold, wet mold. 

5. Set it into a pan of ice water to stiffen. 



100 



SECOND YEAR 



LEMON JELLY 

Make the jelly according to the directions 
on page 99. 



ORANGE JELLY 

Make the jelly according to the directions 
on page 99. 



RECIPE 132. 

1| tbs. gran, gelatin 
I c. cold water 
1| c. boiling water 
f c. sugar 
Spk. salt 

1 c. lemon juice 

RECIPE 133. 

2 tbs. granulated 
gelatin 

I c. cold water 
1| c. boiling water 
f c. sugar 
Spk. salt 

1 c. orange juice 

2 tbs. lemon juice 

RECIPE 134. 

2 tbs. granulated 

gelatin on page 99. Serve it with whipped cream 

I c. cold water or with plain cream. 

2| c. boiling hot coffee 
I c. sugar 
Spk. salt 



COFFEE JELLY 

Make the jelly according to the directions 



RECIPE 135. 



RECIPE 136. 

1 1 tbs. granulated 

gelatin 
I c. cold water 
1 oz. grated choco- 



SNOW PUDDING 

Use No. 132. Beat the white of three 
eggs until it is stiff and dry, and when the 
jelly begins to thicken, add the beaten white. 
Beat it until the jelly is stiff and nearly 
firm, then pour it into a cold, wet mold or 
into wet custard cups. 

Serve it with soft custard (No. 96) made 
from the yolks of the eggs. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM 

Soak the gelatin in cold water ; melt the 
chocolate over boiling water ; heat the 
cream until it is scalding hot and pour it 
over the melted chocolate. Add the sugar 



FISH 101 

late and the hot cream mixture to the gelatin 

I c. sugar and stir it until it is dissolved and the 

1| c. cream or rich mixture is smooth. Add the vanilla, and 

milk pour it into a cold, wet mold. Serve it 

10 drops vanilla with whipped cream. 

Fish 

General Composition. — Fish is composed of proteid, gela- 
tin, fat, extractives, mineral matter, and water. 

Food Value. — In food value and digestibility fish is 
similar to lean meat. As it is cheaper than meat, and is a 
good substitute, it may be used to aid in the economical 
management of household expenses. 

Fish is divided into two classes, — fish proper and shellfish. 
Fish proper are those that have a backbone ; they are again 
divided into two classes : — 

(a) Oily fish, having fat throughout the entire body, and 
having dark flesh ; salmon, mackerel, bluefish, shad, eels, 
herring, belong to this class. 

(6) White fish, having white flesh and oil found only in the 
liver; haddock, cod, halibut, flounder, trout, smelts, belong 
to this class. 

Shellfish have no backbone ; they include lobsters, oysters, 
clams, scallops, and mussels. 

Selection of Fish. — It is even more important to select 
fish well than it is to select meat well. Fresh fish has full 
clear eyes, bright, red gills, and firm flesh. It should always 
be eaten as soon as possible after it is caught. Left-over fish 
should not be allowed to stand long. 

Preparation for Cooking. — Fish are generally cleaned and 
dressed at the market, but they should be wiped thoroughly 
inside and out with a cloth wrung out of cold salt water, and 
then dried with a clean towel kept for that purpose. Head 
and tail may or may not be removed. 



102 SECO>rD YEAB 



jyfM be done in this waj. With a 

^-- ak»g the baek and cut off a 

' l^-ngik. Loosen the skin on 

T may be leadilj drawn off , 

: Ting the skin &v:>zi :i.t 



Clean an:! 
-I. a dfiarr 



ynuoLp 
:id 



skd^ feied, orsauTT - 

7 s :f Cooking. — J : : ^- 



iijicfceKl, ^lad, tri 
~ : 1 and otfao' 



eod, hadikiffk, Une€5: 
jegpod. 



K£CIP£ 137. 



FISH 



103 



it into a wire basket or on a plate, and tie 
the plate in cheesecloth so t-hat the cloth, 
plate, and fish may be lifted together. 
Plunge the fish into boiling, salted water, or 
into boiling water to which | c. of vinegar 
has been added. Allow it to boil five min- 
utes ; then simmer it until it is done. 

The time for cooking varies according 
to size and thickness of fish. It should be 
cooked eight to ten minutes for each pound, 
or until the flesh separates from the bone. 

RECIPE 138. BROILING FISH 

Grease a wire broiler with pork rind. 
Wipe the fish dry and sprinkle it with salt 
and pepper, and if it is not oilv. rub it with 
melted butter. Broil as in Xo. lOi, p. ^. 
Broil split fish with the flesh side near the 
fire until it is browned ; then broil the other 
side until the skin is crisp. When it is 
cooked, loosen both sides of the flesh care- 
fully from broiler and slip it oS on a hot 
platter. Sprinkle it with salt and pepper, 
and butter if desired. 

RECIPE 139. BAKING FISH WHOLE 

Clean and wipe the fish outside and inside 
and dry it thoroughly. S^tuff (No. 143) 
the fish and sew it together. Cut gashes 
about three inches apart and insert a sUce 
of salt pork (never substitute bacon^^ in 
each gash. Sprinkle it with salt and pepper. 
If the fish is not oily, rub it with melted 
butter. Dredge it with flour. Tie the 
fish to shape it like the letter S. and place 
it on a greased tin sheet and put it into a 
pan. Bake it until the flesh separates easily 
from the bone, allowing from twelve to 
fifteen minutes per pound of fish. B:i?te 
it every ten minutes while cooking, and 
when it is done, remove it to a hot platter. 



104 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 140. 



RECIPE 141. 



RECIPE 142. 


3 lb. haddock or cod 


6 c. cold water 


2 slices salt pork 


2 small onions 


sliced 


4 medium potatoes 


(washed, pared, 


and sliced) 


3 c. hot milk 


3 tbs. butter 


Salt and pepper to 


taste 


crackers 



take out the strings, and serve' it with any- 
fish sauce. 

FRYING SMALL FISH 

Clean, wash, and dry the fish, and sprinkle 
them with salt, pepper, and flour ; dip them 
into beaten egg, drain them, and dip them 
into meal or sifted bread crumbs. Fry 
them in deep, hot fat according to page 114. 
When they are done, drain them and serve 
them on a hot platter. 

SAUTE OF COD OR HADDOCK 

Wash and dry the fish, and cut it into 
pieces of convenient size, sprinkle them with 
salt and pepper, and dip them into granu- 
lated corn meal. 

Try out slices of salt pork in a frying pan, 
remove the scraps, and cook the fish until 
it is well browned on both sides and the 
flesh is thoroughly done. The time will 
vary according to the thickness of the slice. 

FISH CHOWDER 

Clean and wipe the fish ; remove the head, 
skin, and bones, and put them into cold 
water. Cook them slowly. Parboil the 
potatoes for five minutes. Put the pork 
into a saucepan in which the chowder is to 
be made, cook it until it is light brown, and 
then remove it. Brown the onion in the 
hot fat ; drain the potatoes and add them 
to onions. Strain the water from the 
bones over the onions and potatoes and boil 
them fifteen minutes. Cut the fish into 
small pieces ; add them to the chowder and 
cook it ten minutes. Add the butter, sea- 
soning, and milk. Heat it to the boiling 
point, and when ready to serve it, add 
crackers. If it is not thick enough, add a 
thickening of flour and water. 



FISH 



105 



RECIPE 143. 

1 c. cracker crumbs, 
or dried bread 
crumbs 

2 tbs. butter 

1 tbs. chopped pickle 
1 ts. chopped parsley 
1 ts. chopped onion 
I ts. salt 
i ts. pepper 
About ^ c. hot milk or 

water, or enough to 

moisten 

RECIPE 144. 

1 c. cracker crumbs 

4 tbs. melted butter 

I ts. salt 

i ts. pepper 

1 ts. each capers, 

pickles, onions, 

chopped fine 



STUFFING FOR FISH. I 

Melt the butter, add the other ingredients, 
and stir them with a fork until all are thor- 
oughly mixed. 



RECIPE 145. 

1 c. cracker crumbs 
4 tbs. melted butter 
1 ts. lemon juice 
1 ts. chopped parsley 
I ts. salt 
I ts. pepper 

1 c. oysters 

RECIPE 146. 

4 tbs. butter 

2 tbs. flour 

1 c. boiling water 
I ts. salt 
i ts. pepper 



STUFFING FOR FISH. II 

Mix ingredients in the order given, 
makes a dry, crumbly stuffing. 



This 



OYSTER STUFFING 

Clean the oystess and remove the tough 
muscles. Add the seasoning and melted 
butter to the cracker crumbs, mix them 
well with a fork, and add the oysters and 
enough of the oyster liquor to moisten the 
crumbs. 



DRAWN BUTTER 

Melt 2 tbs. of butter, add the flour and 
seasoning, and press out any lumps. Add 
the boiling water gradually and stir the 
mixture constantly to make it smooth. 
Boil it five minutes, and add the remaining 
butter in small pieces. ' Serve it with boiled 
or baked fish. 



106 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 147. 



EGG SAUCE 

To drawn butter add two hard-cooked 
eggs, chopped or cut into quarter-inch slices. 
Serve it with boiled fish. 



RECIPE 148. 

^ c. mayonnaise 

dressing 
1 ts. parsley (washed 

and chopped) 
1 ts. chopped pickle 
1 ts. chopped olives 

RECIPE 149. 

1 tbs. lemon juice 
1 ts. vinegar 
1 tbs. Worcester- 
shire sauce 
\ ts. salt 
4 tbs. butter 



TARTAR SAUCE. I 

Mix the parsley, pickle, and olives, and 
add them to the mayonnaise dressing. 



TARTAR SAUCE. II 

Heat the lemon juice, vinegar, Worcester- 
shire sauce, and salt in a small enamel pan 
over hot water. Brown the butter in a 
saucepan and strain it into the first mixture. 

White sauces (Nos. 24, 25) may be used 
with fish. 



RECIPE 150. 



RECIPE 151. 



WAKMING OVER FISH 

CREAMED FISH 

Remove the bones and skin from any 
white cooked fish. Heat the fish in me- 
dium white sauce (No. 25), using twice as 
much fish as sauce. 

CREAMED CODFISH 

Flake salt codfish into small pieces and 
remove the bones. Soak it in cold water 
for several hours. Drain it, put it into a 
saucepan, add cold water enough to cover 
it, and simmer it until it is tender. Pour 
off the water, add medium white sauce 
(No. 25), using twice as much sauce as fish. 
Heat it to the boiling point and add sea- 
soning. 



FISH 



107 



RECIPE 152: 



RECIPE 153. 



RECIPE 154. 



RECIPE 155. 

1| c. cold flaked sal- 
mon or halibut 
f e. (about) 

Thick white sauce 
(No. 26) 

Salt and pepper to 
season 

RECIPE 156. 

1 e. salt codfish 

2 c. potatoes 

1 egg 

2 ts. butter 

i ts. white pepper 
Salt if needed 



SCALLOPED FISH. I 

Put creamed fish into a buttered bajdng 
dish and cover it with buttered cracker or 
bread crumbs. Cook it in the oven until 
the mixture is heated through and the 
crumbs are brown. 

SCALLOPED FISH. II 

Remove all skin and bones from the fish. 
Use equal parts of cooked fish, tomato 
sauce (No. 12), or medium white sauce 
(No. 25), and one half as much bread 
crumbs. Put the layers alternately into a 
buttered baking dish, with buttered crumbs 
on top. 

Bake the mixture until it is heated through 
and the crumbs are brown. 

FISH HASH 

Use equal parts of cold cooked fish and 
mashed potato, mix them well, and add 
seasoning to taste. Fry salt pork, remove 
the scraps, and cook the hash in a frying pan, 
according to No. 125. Fold it over and 
serve it on a hot platter. 

FISH CROQUETTES 

Mix the fish and white sauce and add 
seasoning. Spread the mixture on a plate 
to cool. When it is cool, shape it, roll it 
in crumbs, etc., according to No. 131. Fry 
the croquettes in deep fat and drain them. 
Serve them on a hot dish surrounded with 
white sauce, garnished with chopped parsley. 

FISH BALLS 

Shred the fish into half-inch pieces and 
wash it in cold water. Wash and pare 
the potatoes, and cut them into quarters. 
Cook the fish and potatoes together for 
about twenty-five minutes until the pota- 
toes are tender. Drain and dry the mixture 



108 SECOND YEAR 

thoroughly, mash it well, and add the 
butter, seasoning, and beaten egg. Beat it 
until it is light, form balls on a tablespoon, 
and drop them into smoking hot fat as 
directed on page 114. Fry until brown, then 
drain. 

Shellfish. — The principal shellfish used for food in this 
country are oysters, clams, lobsters, scallops, shrimps, crabs, 
and mussels. 

Oysters. — While oysters are not high in food value, they 
possess a delicate and peculiar flavor which make them 
prized raw. By many people oysters are easily digested 
except when fried. 

The soft part of the oyster is made up largely of the 
stomach and liver and may be cooked in a variety of ways, 
such as broiling, roasting, stewing, frying, etc. 

They are in season from September to May, but should be 
avoided in hot weather, because they are not so good then 
and are likely to be flabby and of poor flavor. 

Blue Points are small oysters which take their name 
from Blue Point, Long Island, where they were originally 
found. 

Clams are similar to oysters in composition, and the same 
general rules are followed in cooking. 

There are two varieties, the soft-shell and the hard-shell 
clams. 

Soft-shell clams are used largely in New England. The 
small hard-shell clams, known as Little Neck clams, are often 
served raw. 

Cleaning Oysters or Clams. — Place a strainer over a bowl. 
Pour one half cup of water over one pint of oysters or clams ; 
then take them out separately and remove any bits of shell. 
Put them into a strainer to drain. The liquor may be 
strained and used. 



FISH 



109 



RECIPE 157. 
1 pt. oysters 
i c. oyster liquor 
1 c. cracker crumbs 
6 tbs. melted butter 
I ts. salt 
I ts. pepper 



RECIPE 158. 
2 c. milk 

1 c. oyster liquor 

2 c. oysters 

1 tbs. butter 

I ts. white pepper 

Salt to taste 



RECIPE 



159. 



RECIPE 160. 



RECIPE 161. 
2 c. oysters 
2 c. milk 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Clean the oysters and sprinkle them with 
salt ^nd pepper. Pour the melted butter 
over the crumbs and stir them with a fork 
until the crumbs are well coated. Butter a 
baking dish, put in a thin layer of crumbs, 
then one half of the oysters, another thin 
layer of crumbs, then the remainder of the 
oysters with the oyster liquor; put the 
remaining crumbs on the top. Bake the 
mixture thirty minutes, or until juice bubbles 
up around the sides of the dish and the 
crumbs are brown. 

OYSTER STEW 

Clean the oysters and scald the milk. 
Heat and strain the oyster liquor. Add 
the oysters and cook them until the edges 
curl. Add the hot milk, butter, and sea- 
soning and serve the stew at once. The 
stew may be thickened according to No. 24. 

PAN-BROILED OYSTERS 

Toast thin slices of stale bread and keep 
them hot. Clean oysters and wipe them 
dry. Put them into a saucepan without 
water, shaking the saucepan until the oys- 
ters are plump and the edges begin to curl. 
Season them with butter, salt, and pepper, 
and serve them at once on the toast. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Clean large oysters, dry them thoroughly, 
and season them with salt and pepper. 
Prepare them according to directions for 
crumbing and egging food for frying (p. 115), 
and fry them in very hot deep fat. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

Make medium white sauce (No. 25). 
Wash 2 c. oysters, add them to the sauce. 



110 



SECOND YEAR 



4 tbs. butter and cook them until they are plump and the 

4 tbs. flour edges curl, which will be about five minutes. 

I ts. salt Serve them on toast, and garnish them with 

Spk. pepper points of toast. 

RECIPE 162. STEAMED CLAMS 

Clams for steaming should be alive and 
bought in their shells. Wash them thor- 
oughly, changing the water several times. 
Put one half cup of boiling water into a 
large kettle, add the clams, cover them tight, 
and steam them until shells partially open. 
Serve each person with steamed clams and 
a small dish of melted butter. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Clean the clams and separate the hard 
and soft parts, chopping the hard portion. 
Strain the clam liquor and heat it to the 
boiling point. 

Fry the salt pork and onion until they are 
light brown. Parboil the potatoes for 
five minutes and then drain off the water. 
Put the potatoes, chopped clams, pork, and 
onions into a saucepan, add the clam liquor 
and enough boiling water to cover them. 
Cook them slowly fifteen minutes. Add the 
soft part of the clams and cook them three 
minutes longer. Add the milk, salt, and 
pepper. Make a thickening according to 
No. 25. Pour it into the chowder and boil 
it' five minutes. Put split crackers into the 
chowder just before serving it. 

LOBSTERS 

As lobsters are more difficult to digest than some other shell- 
fish, those having poor digestion should not eat them. 

The average weight of the market lobster is about 2 lb. 
and the length from 12 to 15 inches. They are most abundant 
from June to September, although obtainable all the year. 



RECIPE 163. 

4 c. clams 

4 medium potatoes 
(washed, pared, 
and cut into inch 
cubes) 

2 medium onions, 
sliced 

1 c. salt pork, cut into 

cubes 

3 c. milk, scalded 

2 tbs. butter 
2 tbs. flour 

1 ts. salt 

I ts. white pepper 
6 common crackers, 
split 



FISH 111 

Selection of Lobsters. — Choose a medium-sized one hav- 
ing a hard shell streaked with black. Take it in the hand ; 
if it is heavy in proportion to its size, it is fresh. Straighten 
out the tail ; if it springs back, the lobster is fresh. Unless 
well acquainted with conditions at your market it is well to 
select live lobsters. 

Boiling. — Lobsters should be put ahve into boiling salted 
water and boiled for twenty minutes. They should not be 
eaten until they are cold and should never be kept more than 
twenty hours after boiling. The shell changes from a dark 
green to a bright red color during the boiling process. 

Opening Lobsters. — Takeoff the small and the large claws. 
Separate the tail from the body and draw out the tail meat. 
Separate the tail meat through the center and carefully re- 
move the intestinal canal, which runs the length of the tail. 
Hold the body shell firmly in the hand and draw out the 
body, leaving stomach or lady which is unfit for use. The 
green part or liver may be removed by shaking the shell. 
Break the body through the center and pick out the meat 
from body bones. Separate the large claws at the joints,' 
crack or cut the shell, and remove the meat. The small claws 
should be kept for garnishing. 

RECIPE 164. CREAMED LOBSTER 

Make a thin white sauce according to No. 
24, and keep it hot in a double boiler. Cut 
the lobster meat fine. Allow 1 c. sauce to 
2 c. lobster meat. Add the lobster to the 
sauce, cook it about five minutes, or just 
long enough to heat the lobster. Season it 
with salt and pepper. Serve it plain or on 
toasted bread or crackers. 

RECIPE 165. LOBSTER CHOWDER 

2 c. lobster meat Brown the pork in a stewpan. Add the 
(cut fine) onion and cook it until it is golden brown. 



112 



SECOND YEAR 



its. 

its. 



Make a white sauce of butter, flour, milk, 
and seasoning according to No. 25. Strain 
the pork fat from the onion into the sauce 
and add the lobster meat. 



LOBSTER CROQUETTES 

Mix all the ingredients. Cool the mix- 
ture ; shape it into croquettes ; fry them 
according to page 114. 



■ J e. salt pork (cut 
into |-inch dice) 
2 tbs. butter 
4 tbs. flour 
4 e. milk 

1 ts. salt 

Few grains cayenne 

RECIPE 1 66. 

2 c. chopped lobster 
meat 

salt 

nutmeg 
Few grains cayenne 
1 tbs. chopped pars- 
ley 
1 c. thick white sauce 
(No. 26) 



Fats and Oils 

Food Value. — Fats and oils constitute one- of the five prin- 
cipal divisions of food. They possess an extremely high food 
value, inasmuch as they furnish the needed supply of energy 
to the body. 

Classes., — Fats and oils come from animal and from vege- 
table sources. The animal fats are : — 

Milk (cream and butter) . 

Meat (suet, marrow, dripping, bacon, etc.). 

Fish (cod liver oil, used for medicinal purposes). 

Egg yolks. 
The vegetable sources are : — 

Olive trees (olive oil) . 

Cotton plant (cottonseed oil). 

Peanut plant (peanut oil). 

Coconut tree (coconut oil) . 

Nut trees (various oily nuts). 



FATS AND OILS 113 

Vegetable and animal fats are sometimes used in combina- 
tion to produce manufactured foods such as butterine, oleo- 
margarine, cottolene, etc. 

Consistency. — Fats and oils are affected by temperature. 
At ordinary temperatures the fats are solid and oils are liquid. 
But in very hot weather fats tend to become liquid, and in very 
cold weather oils tend to become solid. 

Trying Out and Clarifying. — Before using for cooking 
purposes such fats as beef drippings, leaf lard, etc., they are 
tried out in order to free them from skin and connective tissue, 
and then clarified in order to free them from water, or from 
discoloring impurities. 

Tried out and clarified fat is constantly needed in the 
kitchen as it is used for frying, sauteing, and shortening foods, 
as well as in other ways. 

Directions for Trying Out Fat. — Cut or chop fat fine, 
put it into a pan in the oven, or on top of the range, with 
enough water to cover it. Simmer it for several hours. 
When fat is free from water, it stops bubbling. Strain it 
through cheesecloth into a tin pail. 

Directions for Clarifying. — Melt beef drippings or tried-out 
fat, add to it a few slices of raw potato, and heat it slowly in 
the oven or on top of the range until it ceases to bubble. 
Strain the fat through cheesecloth and let it stand until it is 
firm, then put it in a cool place. 

Directions for Trying Out Leaf Lard. — Remove all mem- 
branes by pulling and picking them off. Then cut the fat 
into small pieces. Cook it in a double boiler until the fat is 
melted. Strain it through cheesecloth- and keep it in a cool 
place. 

Frying. — Frying is cooking food in a bath of smoking hot 
fat. 

Utensils for Frying. — The utensils needed in frying are a 
deep iron kettle called a Scotch bowl, or a deep frying pan, a 



114 



SECOND YEAR 



fork, a skimmer with which to remove food when it is cooked, 
a frying basket for croquettes, fish balls, etc., a shallow pan 
in which are laid sheets of soft paper kept warm at the back 
of the range to receive and drain food when it is fried. 

The Fat. — The fat should be put into the kettle and heated 
slowly. It should be smoking hot before the food is put in. 

Too many articles should not be put in at a time as it cools 
the fat. After the frying is done the fat should be cooled and 
strained through double cheesecloth. 

If this is carefully done, the same fat may be used several 
times. When it is too dark for frying purposes, it may be used 
for making soap. 



RECIPE 167. 

51b. of clarified and 

strained fat 
1 lb. can potash 

1 qt. cold water 

2 tbs. powdered bo- 



rax 

c. ammonia 



2 tbs. sugar 
I c. wash- 
ing soda 



HARD SOAP 

Line a box with greased paper. Put the 
fat on the back of the range until it is 
melted. Mix the potash and cold water, add 
the ammonia, borax, and dissolved soda mix- 
ture. Stir it occasionally with a stick until 
the potash is dissolved, then let it stand 
until it is cold. 

When the fat is melted and warm (not 
hot), -pour it into the potash slowly, stirring it 
all the time, and continue to stir it, from ten 
to fifteen minutes, until the soap is the con- 
sistency of thick cream. 

Pour it into the paper-lined box. Let it 
stand a few hours, and then cut it into 
pieces convenient for use. Do not remove 
it from the box for three days. 

Temperature of Fat Tested. — Frying fat can become very 
much hotter than boiling water. So we say smoking fat and 
not boiling fat. Care must be used to see that the fat is not 
too hot. The following are tests : — 

1. When fat is smoking, drop an inch cube of bread into 
the fat ; if it turns golden brown in sixty seconds, fat is hot 
enough for uncooked mixtures such as doughnuts, fritters, etc. 



dis- 
solved 
in I c. 
boiling 
water 



BREAD 115 

2. Drop an inch cube of bread into smoking fat, and if it 
turns golden brown in forty seconds, it is hot enough for 
cooked mixtures such as fish balls, croquettes, etc. 

Care of Food after Frying. — Drain fried food on soft 
brown paper. Avoid piling fried articles one upon another 
while they are hot and before they are served. 

Egging and .Crumbing. — Spread upon a board dried bread 
crumbs which have been rolled and sifted. 

Beat an egg on a plate with a fork until white and yolk are 
mixed thoroughly, and no longer ; add to one beaten egg 2 tbs. 
of water. The food to be fried should first be rolled in crumbs, 
then dipped Cn egg, being sure to cover all parts, then again 
in crumbs, and fried in deep fat. 

Bread 

Importance. — Bread has been an important part of the 
world's diet from the earliest ages. Many savage races grind 
grain and mix it with water, making simple forms of bread. 
To a certain extent a nation may be judged by the character 
and variety of the bread it uses. So it is most important that 
all women know how to make good bread. 

Food Value. — Made from grains, principally wheat, the 
most nutritious of grain, bread contains all food elements 
necessary to the growth and repair of the body, and therefore 
has been called quite properly the staff of life. 

Materials. — The materials required for bread making 
are flour as a basis, liquid, in the form of water, milk, or both, 
yeast, to make it light and more digestible ; salt, to flavor it ; 
sugar, to hasten the process of fermentation or rising; and 
shortening, in the form of lard, butter, or dripping, to decrease 
the natural toughness of a wheat mixture. 

Flour. — Flour is powdered wheat, rye, oats, barley, etc. 

As wheat contains more of that highly nutritious substance. 



116 SECOND YEAR 

gluten, than any other grain, wheat flour is considered the best 
flour for bread making. 

General Composition of Wheat. — Wheat contains starch, 
proteid in the form of gluten, fat, mineral matter, and water. 

Wheat. — As wheat is more used for flour than any other 
grain it will be studied so that you may know something 
about this important contributor to your daily life and 
strength. 

Growth and Kinds of Wheat. — Wheat is a kind of grass 
plant. It grows well in temperate climates. The grain of 
wheat is small, oval in shape, and in color brownish without 
and white within. The outside coat, called the hran coat, 
is composed of three layers. If you do not know what wheat 
looks like, you will be interested in getting a few heads of 
wheat at the florists, and seeing the beards, and the coats of 
the grains. 

The middle portion of the wheat contains the starch and 
gluten, and it also contains the germ or that from which the 
young plant grows. 

Spring wheat, sown in spring and maturing in the later 
summer, produces a hard grain containing large quantities of 
gluten. From this wheat bread flour is made. 

Winter wheat, sown in the fall and maturing in the early 
summer, produces a softer grain, containing more starch than 
spring wheat. Pastry flour is made from winter wheat. 

Cleaning. — The grain is first sorted by removing all dirt 
and other matter, and then cleaned by putting it through brush 
rollers to remove all dust. 

Crushing. — The grain is placed under pressure which cracks 
it open lengthwise in a line with the groove. Then it is 
crushed. The coarse bran and middlings are then separated 
from the finer parts. 

Grinding and Bolting. — The middlings are then ground 
a-nd bolted five or six times, the last bolting being done by 



BREAD 117 

putting the powder or flour through fine silk bolting cloth. 
This is an interesting fabric. Perhaps you will get a piece 
and examine it carefully in order to find the size and space of 
its small meshes through which the flour powder passes. 

Packing. — The flour is packed in barrels, allowing one hun- 
dred and ninety-six pounds to a barrel. It is then ready for 
market, and great quantities of it are shipped all over the 
world from some of our middle western states. 

Kinds of Flour made from Wheat. — Graham flour, a 
coarsely ground flour with bran coats retained, is made from 
wheat. It is named for the man who first made it. 

Entire or Whole Wheat flour, a flour from which most of the 
bran coats have been removed, named because it retains a 
greater part of the grain than white flour, is also made from 
wheat. 

White flour, made as described above by the clearing, 
crushing, grinding, and bolting of wheat, is the commonest 
form of flour made from wheat grains. 

Pastry and Bread Flour. Pastry flour, made from winter 
wheat, contains a greater proportion of starch than bread 
flour, and should be used for all doughs and batters not 
requiring yeast. 

Your teacher will now present some interesting experiments 
to you to show that there is starch in flour, and also a large 
proportion of gluten, and to tell you how to find gluten there. 

Tests of Good Flour. — Good flour may be known : — 

By its creamy tint. 

By its slightly granular feeling when rubbed through the 
fingers. 

By the absorption of a large quantity of liquid when it is 
made into a dough. 

Yeast is a very tiny little plant. It has no stem or leaves, 
or flowers, or seeds. For it is a one-celled plant that grows 
by budding. That means that one cell grows from another. 



118 SECOND YEAR 

Your teacher will draw blackboard pictures to illustrate the 
growth and appearance of yeast. When seen under a mi- 
croscope, the yeast plant appears as a tiny oval cell which is 
nearly colorless. 

Yeast plants are found growing in the air, on the skins of 
fruits, and on the broken skins of decaying fruit. It is also 
cultivated for use in distillery work and in bread making. 

Market Forms of Yeast. — Compressed yeast, one of the 
market forms of this plant, is skimmed from the top of 
fermented liquor, washed several times, strained and pressed, 
mixed with a small amount of starch, and made into cakes. 
These are wrapped in tin foil to keep the yeast from drying. 
When fresh, it is firm, moist, and creamy in color, and one cake 
contains millions of yeast plants. 

Dry Yeast is another market form. It is made by mixing 
fresh yeast with starch or meal until a stiff dough is formed. 

Liquid Yeast is a third market form. In olden days it was 
very common indeed. It is now called baker's yeast and is 
made from potatoes, sugar, and a small amount of hops and 
water, added to a little yeast to start yeast plants growing. 
The potato, hops, sugar, and water make a substance very 
favorable to the growth of the yeast plant. 

Experiments with Yeast. 

1. Mix 1 yeast cake, 2 ts. sugar, and J c. lukewarm water. 
Place part of mixture in three different test tubes. 

2. Place test tube No. 1 in water at 32° F. and keep it at 
that temperature for 1 hr. 

3. Place test tube No. 2 in water at 212° F. and keep the 
water at that temperature for 1 hr. 

4. Place test tube No. 3 in lukewarm water and keep it at 
between 75° and 90° for 1 hr. 

At end of an hour examine the three tubes, and compare 
the results. 

Inferences by the class. 



BREAD 119 

Growth of Yeast Plants. — Yeast plants grow best at a 
temperature of 70 to 85°. The freezing point (32° F.) stops 
the growth of the plant but does not kill it. It may be 
killed by pouring hot water (130°) on it. From these 
facts you can learn that yeast will not grow and make bread 
rise when it is cold, nor can the yeast cause bread to rise after 
it reaches a temperature which kills the yeast plant. When 
dough sours, the yeast has been allowed to grow too long. 

When yeast is added to a batter, it is like scattering into it 
millions of little living cells which grow rapidly under certain 
conditions or when given air, warmth, moisture, and a 
sweetened substance. When yeast grows, it changes the 
sweetened substance into alcohol and a gas called carbon 
dioxide. This change is called fermentation. 

Bread Making. — Bread must be mixed, kneaded, raised, 
molded or shaped, raised a second time, and baked in order 
to produce an appetizing and wholesome mixture of the 
substances in it. 

The process of bread making consists of mixing the dry 
materials, adding the yeast and lukewarm liquid, mixing or 
kneading it thoroughly to insure thorough mixing of the 
ingredients and letting the mixture rise in a warm place to 
double its bulk. This order may be reversed, starting with 
the liquids and adding dry materials to them. 

The water should be boiled before and the milk should be 
scalded. 

All the liquids should be cooled to lukewarm temperatures 
before adding the yeast. 

If the dough rises too long or over twice the bulk, the dough 
becomes sour. To prevent this cut or knead it down when it 
is twice its size, and let rise again before shaping it. 

After it is shaped, the dough is put into a greased pan; it 
is then allowed to rise again to double its size, and then is 
baked in a hot oven. 



120 



SECOND YEAR 



Purpose of Baking. — Bread is baked to cook the starch, 
thus making it digestible, to kill yeast plant so as to stop fer- 
mentation, to drive out gas and the alcohol, and to form a 
protecting brown crust. 



RECIPE i68. 

2 c. boiling water 

1 ts. sugar 

2 ts. salt 

2 tbs. lard, butter, 
or dripping 

I yeast cake mixed 
with I c. luke- 
warm, water, about 
6 c. flour, or 
enough to make it 
the right consis- 
tency for knead- 
ing 



RECIPE 169. 

2 c. hot milk, or 
X e. hot milk and 
1 c. boiling water 
1 ts. salt 
1 ts. sugar 
1 yeast cake mixed 
with I e. luke- 
warm water, flour 



WATER BREAD — SLOW PROCESS 

Put the boiling water, sugar, salt, and 
shortening into a mixing bowl and stir 
the mixture until the shortening is melted. 
Break the yeast into bits and mix it with 
I c. lukewarm water. When the Uquid in 
the bowl is lukewarm, add the yeast, and 
stir in flour gradually, using a knife, or 
wooden spoon. When the dough is stiff 
enough to make into a smooth baU, turn it 
out on a floured board and knead it until it 
is smooth and elastic. Return it to the 
bowl, cover it closely, and let it rise in a 
warm place (about 75° F.) until it has 
doubled its bulk. When it is ready, shape it 
into biscuits or loaves, place in greased 
pans, cover it, and let it rise again to double 
its bulk. Bake it in a hot oven. Loaves 
require from 45 to 60 m. ; biscuits from 10 
to 20 m., according to size. When they are 
baked, remove them from pans and cool 
them on a cake cooler. 

Milk may be used instead of water for 
this recipe, but in that case but haK as 
much shortening should be used. 

BREAD— QUICK PROCESS 

Follow the directions in No. 168. With 
the amount of yeast in this recipe the 
bread should be completed in five or six 
hours. 



BREAD 



121 



to make it stiff 
enough to knead, 
(about 6 c.) 

RECIPE 170. 

1 c. scalded milk 

1 c, boiling water, or 

2 c. water 

1 tbs. butter 

2 ts. salt 

I c. molasses 

I yeast cake mixed 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

Follow directions in No. 168. 



water 
1 c. white flour and 
entire wheat flour, 
to make it stiff 
enough to knead 

RECIPE 171. 

1 c. milk (scalded), or 
I e. milk (scalded) and 
. I c. boiling water 
1 ts. salt 
1 ts. sugar 
1 tbs. butter 
I yeast cake mixed 

with I c. lukewarm 

water 
About 3 c. flour, or 
enough to knead 



RECIPE 172. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Put the hot milk, salt, sugar, and shorten- 
ing into a mixing bowl, and when the mix- 
ture is lukewarm, add the yeast and the 
flour until it is stiff enough to knead. 
Knead it ; let it rise to double its bulk. 
Shape it into balls ; put them into a 
buttered pan, cover them, and let them rise 
again to double their bulk. Press through 
the center, almost cutting the ball, with the 
floured handle of a wooden spoon. Brush 
one haK with melted butter, fold the other 
half over it, and press them together. 
Let them rise again and bake them ten to 
fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

CRESCENT ROLLS 

Shape Parker House Roll mixture into 
sticks, then shape the sticks into crescents, 
let them rise to double their bulk and bake 
them in a hot oven from ten to fifteen 
mLautes. 



122 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 173. 



RECIPE 174. 

1 c. milk (scalded) 
I c. sugar 

1 ts. salt 

2 tbs. butter 

^ yeast cake mixed 
with I c. luke- 
warm water 

1 tbs. cinnamon 

I c. currants 

i c. chopped citron 

About 3 c. flour, or 
enough to knead 



RECIPE 175. 

1 c. scalded milk 

1 ts. salt 

1 tbs. sugar 

4 tbs. butter 

IVes-st cake mixed 
with I c. luke- 
warm water 

1 egg white 

3 to 4 c. flour 



BRAIDS 

Use Parker House Roll mixture; make 
it into thin sticks; fasten three sticks to- 
gether at the end, and braid them. Cut 
them into five-inch lengths ; place them 
apart in a buttered pan, let them rise to 
twice their size ; bake them in a hot oven 
about twenty to twenty-five minutes. 
When they are baked, brush them with 
melted butter. . 

SWEDISH ROLLS 

Mix a dough according to the directions 
for Parker House Rolls. When the dough 
has risen to double bulk, knead it and roll it 
out flat on a floured board until it is | inch 
thick. Spread it with melted butter, 
sprinkle it with cinnamon, sugar, currants, 
and chopped citron. Roll up the dough 
like jelly roll. Cut it into half-inch slices. 
Stand the slices on end on buttered pan; 
let them rise again until the bulk is doubled. 
Bake them from twenty to thirty minutes 
in the hot oven. When they are cooked, 
the tops may be glazed by brushing them 
with a mixture of white of egg and a little 
cold water. Return them to the oven and 
dry the egg. 

BREAD STICKS 

Put the hot milk in a mixing bowl, add 
the salt, sugar, and butter. When the 
mixture is lukewarm, add the dissolved 
yeast mixture and white of egg well beaten. 
Add enough flour to knead. Let it rise to 
double its bulk. Knead it again, shape it, 
and put the sticks on a buttered pan one 
inch apart. Let them rise again to double 
their bulk and bake them about ten min- 
utes, or untn the sticks are dry, in a hot 
oven. 



BREAD 



123 



GENERAL PROPORTIONS FOR YEAST DOUGHS 





1 


< 

o 
CO 


1 

1 


1 


1 


g 
1 


Bread 


1 c. 


1 ts. 


1 tbs. 


J to 1 cake 




abt. 3 c. 


Rolls 


1 c. 


Its. 


2 tbs. 


J to 1 cake 




abt. 3 c. 


Muffins (breakfast) . 


1 c. 


1 tbs. 


1 tbs. 


i to 1 cake 


1 


2 c. 


Muffins (tea) . . 


1 c. 


ic. 


2 tbs. 


i to 1 cake 


1 


2 c. 



GENERAL PROPORTIONS FOR QUICK DOUGHS 





Floue 


Baking 

POWDEK 


Sugar 


Shortening 


Eggs 


Liquids 


Pop-overs . . 


1 c. 










1 


Ic. 


Griddle cake . 


1 c. 


2ts. 


— 


Its. 


itol 


Ic. 


Fritters . . . 


1 c. 


— 


2 tbs. 


1 ts. 


lto2 


ic. 


Muffins I. . . 


1 c. 


2ts. 


1 tbs. 


1 ts. 


1 


i c. scant 


Muffins II. . 


1 c. 


2 ts. 


ic. 


2 tbs. 


1 


ic. 


Cake . . . 


Uc. 


lits. 


1 c. 


4 tbs. 


2 


ic. 


Doughnuts 


1 c. 


1 ts. 


ic. 


its. 


1 


I c. about 


Cookies . . 


1 C.+ 


Its. 


ic. 


2 tbs. 


i 


2 tbs. about 


Biscuits . . 


1 c. 


2ts. 




i to 1 tbs. 




i c. about 


Shortcake . 


1 c. 


2 ts. 


— 


2 tbs. 


— 


1 c. about 


Pastry . . . 


1 c. 


its. 




4 tbs. 


— 


I c. about 



Baking Powder Mixtures 



Doughs and Batters. — Baking powder may be used in the 
place of yeast to make a flour mixture rise. When the mix- 
ture is of moistened flour or meal stiff enough to knead, it is 



124 SECOND YEAR 

called a dough. Bread dough, biscuit dough, and pie dough 
are famihar examples of the degree of stiffness. If the mix- 
ture is thin enough to be beaten, it is called a batter. 
Pancake batter, muffin batter, and cake batter are examples 
of this degree of stiffness. 

Dough and Batter Proportions. — Learn this table of dough 
and batter proportions : — 

1 measure of flour to 1 of liquid makes a thin batter. 

2 measures of flour to 1 of liquid makes a drop or muffin batter. 

3 measures of flour to 1 of liquid makes a soft dough fit to 

knead. 

4 measures of flour to 1 of liquid makes a dough stiff enough to 

roll thin, as pastry or cookies. 

General Directions for Mixing Doughs and Batters. — • 
First, mix and sift all dry materials ; second, pour the liquids 
slowly into the dry mixture; and lastly, mix and beat the 
mixture thoroughly. 

Batters may be stirred and beaten with a spoon. 

Doughs are more easily and thoroughly mixed with a 
knife. 

Raising Flour Mixtures. — Flour mixtures may be raised 
by beating air into them, or by the gas which escapes from 
fermenting yeast, or by the gas made by using cream of tartar 
or some acid substance with soda. 

Baking soda is used with cream of tartar or some other acid 
substances, such as sour milk or molasses. But baking 
powder is the most commonly used means of getting gas into 
flour mixtures, other than bread, for the purpose of raising 
them. 

Baking Powder 

Composition. — Baking powder is made up of one part of 
bicarbonate of soda, about two parts of cream of tartar, and 
a little starch. 



BAKING POWDER 125 

Baking powder must contain at least two ingredients, 
bicarbonate of soda and some acid substance, usually cream 
of tartar. When moistened together, these two substances 
set carbon dioxide free. 

This gas, if in a dough or batter, fills it with what we call 
little air holes. But they are really little bubbles of the dough 
containing gas. 

Bicarbonate of soda is an alkaline substance made from 
common salt. 

Cream of tartar is an acid substance obtained from the 
argols found on the inside of wine casks. Your teacher will 
show you some of these argols. 

Whenever alkaline and acid substances are brought to- 
gether and moistened, they set a gas free. If you mix J ts. of 
soda and J ts. cream of tartar, and moisten the mixture in the 
bowl of a spoon, you will see bubbles containing the freed gas. 
Baking powder doughs and batters should be rapidly pre- 
pared and baked as soon after they are mixed as possible 
before the bubbles break. 

Experiments. — Perform these experiments and observe 
as directed. 

1. Mix J ts. baking soda and 1 ts. cream of tartar. No 
change is seen. When baking soda and cream of tartar are 
mixed together dry, no gas is set free. 

2. Mix 1 ts. soda with 2 tbs. cold water and stir. No 
bubbles are to be seen. 

3. Mix 2 ts. cream of tartar with J c. cold water. No bub- 
bles appear. 

4. Pour mixture No. 3 into No. 2 — small bubbles, slight 
disturbance. When these are mixed with cold liquid, most 
of the gas set free is dissolved by the liquid. 

5. Heat the mixture. There is rapid bubbling and great 
disturbance. When these substances are mixed with cold 
liquid and then heated, the gas is driven out of the liquid. 



126 



SECOND YEAR 



Proportions. 

1 cup of flour requires 1 to 2 ts. baking powder. 
1 cup of raolasses requires 1 ts. bicarbonate of soda. 
1 cup thick sour milk requires J ts. bicarbonate of soda. 
When eggs are used in a mixture, less baking powder is 
required. 



RECIPE 176. 

4 oz. bicarbonate 
of soda 

9 oz. cream of tar- 
tar 

2 oz. cornstarch. 



BAKING POWDER 

Mix and sift the soda and cornstarch 
thoroughly together; add the cream of 
tartar, and sift the mixture through a fine 
strainer about eight times. Put the mix- 
ture into tightly covered tin cans or glass jars. 



RECIPE 177. 

1 egg 

1 c. milk (scant) 

1 c. flour 

I ts. salt 



POP-OVERS 

Mix and sift the flour and salt. Beat the 
egg, add to it the milk, and add it gradually 
to the dry mixture, making a smooth batter. 
Beat it with an egg beater until the mixture 
is full of air bubbles. Have gem pans well 
greased and heated ; pour the mixture into 
the pans until they are two thirds full. 
Bake them on the bottom shelf of a hot 
oven for about thirty minutes, untU they 
are well puffed up and browned. 



RECIPE 178. 

1 c. flour 

2 ts. baking powder 
I ts. salt 

1 scant c. milk 
1 ts. melted butter 
1 egg (if desired) 



SWEET-MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

Mix the dry materials and sift them. 
Beat the eggs and add the milk and melted 
butter ; pour the liquid mixture slowly into 
the dry mixture, stir it to make a smooth 
batter, then beat it well. Cook it by spoon- 
fuls on a hot greased griddle or frying pan, 
using just enough fat to keep cakes from 
sticking to pan. As soon as the cakes are 
full of bubbles, turn them quickly (with a 
broad knife or griddle cake turner) and cook 
the other side. Never turn them twice. 



BAKING POWDER 



127 



RECIPE 179. 


1 c. flour 


^ ts. baking soda 


J ts. salt 


1 c. thick sour milk 


1 egg 


RECIPE 180. 


J e. flour 


i G. corn meal 


1 ts. sugar 


2 ts. baking powder 


I ts. salt 


1 c. milk 


1 egg (if desired) 


RECIPE 181. 


1 c. scalded milk 


1 c. stale bread 


crumbs 


1 ts. butter 


legg 


1 c. flour 


1 ts. salt 


2 ts. baking powder 


RECIPE 182. 


1 c. flour 


I ts. salt 


1 tbs. sugar 


2 eggs 


^ e. milk 



RECIPE 183. 
1 c. boiling water 
6 tbs. butter 
1 c. pastry flour 
4 eggs 



SOUR-MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

Mix according to No. 178. 



CORN-MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

Mix according to No. 178. 



BREAD-CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES 

Soak the crumbs in the milk, add the 
butter, and let the mixture stand until it is 
cold and the crumbs are soft. Add the 
beaten egg. Mix the dry materials, add 
them to the bread-crumb mixture, beat it 
well, and cook as in No. 178. If the mixture 
is too thick, thin it with milk or water. 

FRITTER BATTER 

Sift the flour and salt into a bowl. 
Separate the eggs, beat the yolks well, add 
them to the milk. Pour it gradually into 
the flour mixture and mix it until the batter 
is smooth. Beat the white stiff, add it to 
the batter, and cut and fold it into mixture. 
Fry spoonfuls in deep hot fat. This batter 
is used for fruit. 

CREAM CAKES 

Cook the water and butter in a saucepan 
until the boiling point is reached. Add the 
whole quantity of flour and mix it well. 
Remove the mixture from the fire and cool 



128 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 184. 

2 c. flour 

4 ts. baking powder 

1 tbs. sugar 

I ts. salt 

1 egg 

2 tbs. melted butter 
1 c. milk 

RECIPE 185. 
Add to No. 184: 

I e. sugar 

1 egg 

1 tbs. butter 

RECIPE 186. 

Add to No. 184 : 
1 c. blueberries 
I c. sugar 

RECIPE 187. 
1 e. flour 
f c. corn meal 
J c. sugar 

4 ts. baking powder 
1 ts. salt 
1 egg 

1 pcant c. milk 

2 tbs. melted butter 
or dripping 



it. Add the eggs, unbeaten, one at a time, 
and beat it thoroughly. When all the 
eggs are added, beat the mixture five 
minutes ; drop spoonfuls from the tip 
of the spoon on a buttered sheet, some dis- 
tance apart, and bake the cakes about | 
hour in a quick oven or until the cakes are 
puffed up ' and hollow. Fill them with 
whipped cream or cream filling. 

This recipe makes one dozen medium- 
sized shells. 

PLAIN MUFFINS 

Mix according to general rule for mixing 
doughs and batters and bake the muffins 
quickly in a hot oven. 



TEA MUFFINS 



BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 
For blueberry muffins a little less milk is 
required. 

CORN-MEAL MUFFINS OR CORN CAKE 

Mix according to general rule for mixing 
doughs and batters. Use greased gem 
pans, or a shallow, greased pan. 



BAKING POWDER 



129 



RECIPE i88. 



GRAHAM OR RYE MUFFINS 

These may be made by substituting 
graham or rye flour for the corn meal in 
No. 187, omitting the butter. 



RECIPE 189. 


1 c. cold cooked 


oatmeal mush or 


cream of wheat 


1 e. flour 


1 ts. salt 


4 ts. baking powder 


1 egg (beaten light) 


Milk enough to 


make a drop bat- 


ter 


RECIPE 190. 


2 c. flour 


1 tbs. ginger 


^ ts. salt 


1 ts. bicarbonate of 


soda 


1 c. molasses 


1 c. cold or boiling 


water 


3 tbs. melted drip- 


ping or butter 


RECIPE 191. 


2| c. flour 


1 c. sugar 


2 ts. ginger 


1 ts. cinnamon 


1^ ts. bicarbonate 


of soda 


1 c. molasses 


1 egg (beaten light) 


3 tbs. melted dripping 


1 c. sour milk 



CEREAL GEMS 

Mix together cooked cereal, flour, salt, 
and baking powder. Add the beaten egg 
and the milk. Bake the gems in hot, 
buttered gem pans in a hot oven. 



GINGERBREAD. I 

Mix and sift the dry materials ; mix the 
wet materials. Pour the wet mixture into 
the dry, beat it thoroughly, and bake it in 
a shallow greased pan for about twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. Boiling water 
makes a moist gingerbread and cold water 
makes a dry one. 



GINGERBREAD. H 

Mix and sift the dry materials ; mix the 
wet materials and the beaten egg. Pour 
the wet mixture into the dry, and mix and 
beat it thoroughly. Bake it in greased 
muffin tins or a shallow pan for about 
twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 



130 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 192. 

2 e. flour 

4 ts. baking powder 

I ts. salt 

1| tbs.. shortening 

About f c. milk 
(or f e. milk and 
water mixed) 



RECIPE 193. 

2 c. flour 

4 ts. baking powder 

I ts. salt 

4 tbs. shortening 



RECIPE 194. 

Use the material of 
No. 193. 



RECIPE 195. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, 
and salt. Work in the shortening, add the 
milk slowly, stirring it with a knife, until 
the dough has right consistency. Turn it 
out on a floured board, press it down 
lightly with a rolling pin until the dough 
is one inch thick. Cut it with a floured 
biscuit cutter and bake it from 10 to 15 m. 
in a hot oven or until it is thoroughly 
cooked. Work rapidly. 

SHORT CAKE 

Mix the materials as in No. 192. Divide 
the mixture into halves. Put one half into 
a greased pie plate, and brush the top with 
melted butter. Spread the second portion 
over the first. Bake it for about twenty- 
five minutes in a hot oven. When it is 
cooked, place one half on a serving plate, 
cover it with crushed fruit and place the 
other half over it. Put fruit or whipped 
cream on top. 

Strawberries, peaches, raspberries, or 
stewed fruits may be used. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

Put the mixture into a shallow, greased, 
oblong tin. Have four sour apples, pared, 
cored, and cut into quarters. Place the 
quarters, pointed side down, in parallel 
rows on the shortcake mixture and sprinkle 
the apples with 2 tbs. sugar. Bake 
it in a hot oven from twenty to thirty 
minutes, or until the apples are soft and the 
cake is cooked. Serve it with a sweet 
pudding sauce. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING 

Wipe, pare, and core six apples and 
Bteam them until they are tender. Make 



THE OVEN 131 

a dough according to No. 192. Cover 
each apple with the biscuit dough and bake 
them in a moderately hot oven for about 
twenty-j&ve minutes. Serve them with 
plain pudding sauce or lemon sauce. 

The Oven 

Tests. — It is of first importance to have the oven of proper 
temperature. Different preparations require different tem- 
peratures. One of the unfailing qualities of a good cook is 
her care for and knowledge about her oven. 

When white writing paper laid in oven will turn golden 
brown in five minutes, the oven is moderate. 

When white writing paper laid in oven will turn dark 
brown in five minutes, the oven is hot. 

Observations during Baking Process. — Notice these 
facts about your mixtures as you look at them from time to 
time in the oven. 

First, the mixture begins to rise. 

Second, it continues rising and begins to brown in spots. 

Third, it rises in the center and browns all over. 

Fourth, it settles to level and shrinks from pan. 

Time Table for Baking 

Biscuit (baking powder), 10 to 15 m. 
Biscuit and rolls (raised), 10 to 20 m. 
Bread (loaf), 45 to 60 m. 

Cake (layer), 15 to 30 m. 

Cake (loaf), 35 to 60 m. 

Cookies, 5 to 10 m. 

Corn cake (thick), 30 to 40 m. 

Corn cake (thin), 15 to 20 m. 

Muffins (baking powder), 20 to 25 m. 
Muffins (raised), about 30 m. 

Pies, 30 to 60 m. 



132 SECOND YEAR 



Cake 



With and Without Butter. — There are two general classes 
of cake ; those made with butter, as fruit cake, pound cake, 
plain cake, etc., and those made without butter, as sponge 
cake, angel cake, etc. 

Ingredients. — Only the best quality of eggs, butter, gran- 
ulated sugar, and pastry flour will guarantee the best results 
in cake making. The ingredients necessary to cake batters 
are: — 

Sugar, butter (for certain cakes), eggs, milk or cold water, 
salt, baking powder, flavoring or spices, pastry flour. If 
bread flour is substituted for pastry flour, use 2 tbs. less for 
each cup called for. 

Preparation for Making. — An earthen bowl and wooden 
spoon should always be used for mixing. 

The pan for baking should be well buttered and sprinkled 
lightly with flour, or lined with buttered paper. 

The fire should be looked at to see if it is in condition to 
give an even, steady heat throughout the entire baking. 

Method of making Cakes containing Butter. — Put the 
butter into a bowl and cream it thoroughly ; add the sugar 
slowly, working it into the butter. Be sure to continue cream- 
ing the mixture until the sugar is completely dissolved and 
the mixture is light and foamy. 

Separate the yolks and whites of eggs and beat the yolks 
light and creamy. Add them to the butter mixture and beat 
it well. 

Sift the baking powder, and spices if used, with the flour, 
adding liquid and flour mixture alternately. If fruit is used, 
it is added now and floured to prevent its settling to the 
bottom. 

The whites, beaten stiff, should be added last. 

Caution. — Never stir cake after the final beating. 



CAKE 133 

Method of making Cakes containing no Butter. Sponge 
Cakes. — Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs and beat 
the yolks thick and cream colored. 

Add the sugar slowly and continue the beating; add the 
flavoring. 

Beat the white stiff and dry and add it to the first mixture. 

Sift the flour at least three times and cut and fold it into the 
mixture last. 

To cut and fold, cut the mixture through and through with 
the side of a spoon and fold it by turning the spoon completely 
over to blend the ingredients. 

The Baking of Cake. — During the baking the oven door 
must be opened and closed most gently so as to avoid jarring 
the cake, and thereby causing it to fall. 

Divide the required time for baking into quarters accord- 
ing to directions on page 131. 

Cakes made without butter require a cooler oven than 
butter cakes. 

Cake is done when it shrinks from the sides of the pan or 
when a straw inserted in the center comes out dry, or when it 
springs back when pressed with finger. 

After Baking. — Directly after baking cake remove it from 
pan and cool it by inverting it on a wire cake cooler. Be 
careful not to break the cake. Allow it to remain until it is 
cold. 

RECIPE 196. CHEAP SPONGE CAKE 

2 eggs Beat the yolks thick. Add the sugar 

1 c. sugar gradually and continue the beating ; add 

1 tbs. lemon juice the lemon juice and water. Beat the white 
5 tbs. cold water stiff and dry. Mix and sift the flour and 
1| c. pastry flour baking powder, add it to the yolk mixture ; 

2 ts. baking powder add the beaten white and cut and fold it 

into the cake. Bake the cakes in buttered 
muffin pans in a moderate oven. 



134 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 197. 

3 eggs 

1 e. fine granulated 
sugar 

Spk. salt 

2 ts. lemon juice 
I c. pastry flour 



RECIPE 198. 

I c. white of eggs 
I ts. cream of tartar 
Spk. salt 

f c. sugar (fine gran- 
ulated) 
I c. flour 
I ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 199. 

I c. butter 

1 c. sugar 

2 eggs 

1 c. milk 
1| c. flour 

2 ts, baking powder 
Spk. salt 

I ts. vanilla or 

1 ts. spice 

RECIPE 200. 

2 tbs. butter 
1 c. sugar 

1 c. sour milk 

2 c. flour 

I ts. bicarbonate of 

soda 
1 ts. cinnamon 



SPONGE CAKE 

Beat the yolks thick; add the sugar 
slowly and continue the beating; add the 
lemon juice. Beat the white stiff and dry ; 
add it to the yolk mixture. Mix the flour 
and salt, sift it three times and cut and fold 
it into the egg mixture. Cook the cake in 
a buttered pan in a rather slow oven for 
about forty minutes. 

ANGEL CAKE 

Turn the white on a large platter and 
beat it with a fork or a wire whisk. When 
it is partially stiff, add the cream of tartar 
and continue the beating. Beat in the 
sugar gradually and add the vanilla. Sift 
the flour and salt five times; then sift it 
into the egg mixture, cutting and folding it 
in. Use an angel cake pan and bake the 
cake one hour in a rather slow oven. 

PLAIN CAKE 

Mix the material according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. 

Note. — Many other kinds of cake may 
be made by varying this recipe. Spices 
and fruit, or chopped nuts may be added, 
or the mixture may be used for layer cake, 
marble cake, etc. 



CAKE WITHOUT EGGS 

Prepare the fruit and sprinkle it with 
2 tbs. of the flour which is to be used 
in the cake. Sift the remainder of the 
flour, soda, and spices together ; cream the 
butter, add the sugar slowly, creaming it 
with the butter; add to it the milk and 
flour mixture alternately, and beat it well. 



CAKE 



135 



nut- 



I ts. nutmeg 
J ts. mace 

1 c. raisins 

i c. currants 

2 tbs. citron, 
chopped fine 

RECIPE 201. 

i c. butter 
f c. sugar 
1 egg 
^ c. milk 
1^ c. flour 
2| ts. 

powder 
i ts. grated 

meg 

RECIPE 202. 

1 c. butter 
li c. sugar 

3 eggs 

^ c. milk 
1| c. flour 
^ c. cocoa 

2 ts. baking powder 
I ts. vanilla 

RECIPE 203. 

1 c. butter 
li c. sugar 

4 egg whites 
i c. milk 

1| c. pastry flour 

2 ts. baking powder 
I ts. almond ex- 
tract 

RECIPE 204. 
I c. butter 
1 c. sugar 
4 egg yolks and 



Fold in the floured fruit. Bake the cake 
in a moderate oven. 



ONE EGG CAKE 

Mix the material according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. Use the 
cake while it is fresh. 



COCOA CAKE 

Mix the materials according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. 

Frost with lemon frosting, No. 216, or 
chocolate frosting, No. 215. 



SILVER CAKE 

Mix the material according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. 

Note. — Reserve the yolks from this 
cake for Gold Cake. 



GOLD CAKE 

Mix the materials according to the direc- 
tions for making butter cakes. 



136 



SECOND YEAR 



1 whole egg 
f c. milk 

2 c. flour 

2 ts. baking powder 

1 ts. mace 

RECIPE 205. 

2 eggs 

1 c. sugar 

1| tbs. melted but- 
ter 



1 ts. flavoring 
1| c. flour 

2 ts. baking powder 



RECIPE 206. 

I c. butter 

f c. sugar 

1 egg 

1 c. milk 

2i c. flour 

4 ts. baking powder 

I ts. vanilla 



LAYER CAKE 

Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl, add the 
sugar gradually, and continue the beating. 
Add the melted butter, milk, and flavoring, 
and lastly the sifted flour and baking 
powder. Beat the mixture thoroughly. 
Divide it into two parts and bake them in 
buttered layer pans or in buttered tin or 
agate pie plates. Fill with ^emon cream, 
No. 207, or with plain cream. No. 209. 
Put chocolate or lemon frosting on top, 
Nos. 215, 216. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

Mix the materials according to No. 199. 
Serve the pudding with foamy sauce or 
with lemon sauce. 



Creams and Frostings for Cake 



RECIPE 207. 
1 lemon juice 
1 ts. grated rind 
I c. boiling water 
1 tbs. cornstarch 
I c. sugar 
1 egg (beaten) 
1 ts. butter 



LEMON FILLING 

Mix the boiling water, lemon juice, and 
lemon rind. Mix the cornstarch and sugar 
thoroughly. Pour the liquid mixture into 
the cornstarch and let it boil three minutes, 
stirring it constantly. Put over the boiling 
water, and cook it five minutes longer ; add 
the beaten egg and butter and cook it two 
minutes. Cool it. Use it for filling in 
layer cake. 



CREAMS AND FROSTINGS FOR CAKE 



137 



RECIPE 208. 
1 orange juice 
1 tbs. grated rind 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
I c. cold water 
1 tbs. cornstarch 
3 tbs. sugar 
Spk. salt 
1 egg 
1 ts. butter 



RECIPE 209. 

f c. sugar 

2| tbs. cornstarch 
or 

1 c. of flour 
i ts. salt 

2 c. milk 

2 eggs (beaten) 
1 ts. butter 
1 ts. vanilla 



RECIPE 210. 



RECIPE 211. 

2 egg whites 

I c. shredded coco- 
nut 

Powdered sugar 
enough to make it 
of the consistency 
to spread 

RECIPE 212. 

White of 1 egg 

1 tbs. lemon juice, 



ORANGE FILLING 

Mix the orange juice and rind, lemon 
juice, and cold water. Boil the mixture 
two minutes, then strain it. Mix the corn- 
starch, sugar, and salt thoroughly, pour 
the liquid mixture over it and boil it over 
the fire two minutes, stirring it constantly. 
Then cook it over boiling water for five min- 
utes. Beat the egg, add it to the corn- 
starch mixture and cook it two minutes 
longer. Add the butter. Cool the filling 
before using it. Use it in layer cake. 

CREAM FILLING 

Scald the milk. Mix the sugar, corn- 
starch or flour, and salt ; pour on the hot 
milk and cook it over the fire for three 
minutes, stirring it constantly. Put it 
over boiling water and cook it ten minutes 
longer, stirring it occasionally. Pour the 
fiour mixture over the beaten eggs, put it 
back into the double boiler, and cook it 
two minutes longer, and add the butter and 
vanilla. 

Cool the filling before using it. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FILLING 

Add to No. 209, 2 tbs. melted chocolate. 

COCONUT FILLING 

Beat the white on a large plate with a 
fork or wire whisk, add the suga.r gradually 
until it is stiff enough to spread, and con- 
tinue the beating; add the flavoring. 
Spread it on cake and sprinkle it thickly 
with shredded coconut. 

PLAIN FROSTING. I 

Beat the white stiff; add the lemon 
juice and sugar gradually and continue the 



138 



SECOND YEAR 



or I ts. vanilla 
1 c. powdered sugar, 
or enough to 
make the frost- 
ing thick enough 
to spread 



beating. When of the right consistency, 
beat it thoroughly and spread it on the cake 
with a broad-bladed knife. 



RECIPE 213. 

11 c. powdered 

sugar 
1 tbs. milk 
1 ts. butter 
5 ts. vanilla 



PLAIN FROSTING. II 

Scald the milk, add to it the butter. 
Beat in the powdered sugar until the frost- 
ing is of the right consistency to spread. 
Add the vanilla and spread the frosting on 
cake. 

More sugar may be used if the amount 
in the recipe does not make it of the proper 
consistency. 



RECIPE 214. 

1 c. gran, sugar 
I c. boiling water 
White of an egg 
I ts. vanilla or 



BOILED FROSTING 

Boil the sugar and water together until 
the sirup spins a thread. Beat white stiff ; 
pour the sirup slowly on the egg and con- 
tinue the beating until the mixture is of the 



^ ts. lemon juice right consistency to spread. 



RECIPE 21S. 



CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

Add to either No. 212 or No. 213 two 
scpiares of melted chocolate. 



RECIPE 216. 

2 egg yolks 

1 tbs. grated orange 

rind 
5 tbs. orange juice 
1 ts. lemon juice 
1^ c. confectioner's 
sugar, or enough 
to make it the 
proper consist- 
ency to spread 



ORANGE FROSTING 

Mix the orange juice and lemon juice 
with the orange rind and let it stand for 
ten minutes, then strain it. Beat the 
yolks light colored and creamy; add the 
sugar and juice gradually and continue the 
beating until the frosting is stiff enough 
to spread. 



STEAMED DOUGHS AND BATTERS 



139 



RECIPE 217. 
2 c. brown sugar 
I c. boiling water 
White of 1 egg 



CARAMEL FROSTING 

Beat the white of egg. Boil the sugar 
and water without stirring it until the mix- 
ture forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour it 
slowly into the beaten egg and beat it 
constantly until the mixture is thick 
enough to spread. 



Steamed Doughs and Batters 

General Directions for Cooking. — Grease the inside of the 
cover of the pail or can or mold in which the mixture is to 
be steamed. A tin lard pail or a pound baking powder tui 
may be used instead of molds. 

Fill the tins only two thirds full and cover them tight. 

Place the pail on a muffin ring in a large kettle and pour 
enough boiling water around it to reach two thirds of the 
way up the pail. 

Keep the water boiling throughout the entire cooking. 

As water boils away add more boiling water to take its 
place. 

DUMPLINGS FOR STEW 

Mix the flour, baking powder, and salt ; 
add enough milk, gradually, to make a soft 
dough. Drop the mixture by spoonfuls 
into the stew. Cover it tightly and steam 
it ten minutes without removing the cover. 



RECIPE 218. 

1 c. flour 

2| ts. baking pow- 
der 

\ ts. salt 

About \ c. milk (to 
make a soft dough) 



RECIPE 219. 
1 c. rye meal 
1 c. corn meal 
^ c. wheat flour 
1| ts. bicarbonate 

of soda 
I ts. salt 
I c. molasses 
1\g. sour milk 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

Mix the meal, flour, and salt ; sift in the 
soda and mix it in thoroughly. Add the 
molasses and the sour milk. Beat it well, 
turn it into a buttered mold, cover it 
tight, and steam it about three hours. 



140 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 220. 


2 e. flour 


3 ts. baking powder 


^ ts. salt 


1 ts. ground cin- 


namon and mace 


1 ts. nutmeg 


1 ts. ginger 


4 tbs. suet (chopped 


fine) 


1 c. raisins (seeded 


and cleaned) 


1 c. currants 


(cleaned) 


1 c. chopped citron 


Cold water to make 


a drop batter 


RECIPE 221. 


2 c. flour 


^ c. sugar 


3 ts. baking powder 


1 ts. salt 


3 squares chocolate 


(grated) or 4 tbs. 


cocoa 


1 egg (beaten light) 


3 tbs. melted butter 


1 c. milk 


RECIPE 222. 



RECIPE 223. 

2 c. whole wheat 

flour 
I ts. bicarbonate 
of soda 



SUET PUDDING 

Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, 
salt, and spices. Add the chopped suet, 
fruit, and enough cold water to make a 
drop batter. Put the mixture into a 
greased lard pail and steam it for about 
three hours, according to No. 219. Serve 
it with lemon sauce, No. 227. This may 
be cooked in small baking powder cans in 
one hour. 

Plain suet pudding may be made by 
omitting the spices and fruit. 



STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, 
sugar, and salt. Add the chocolate and mix 
thoroughly with the flour mixture. Mix 
the beaten egg, milk, and melted butter; 
pour it into the dry materials and beat it 
well. Turn it into a buttered pail, cover it, 
and steam it about two hours. Serve it 
with creamy sauce, No. 228. 



BLUEBERRY PUDDING 

Omit chocolate in No. 221 and use one 
cup of blueberries instead and one scant 
cup of milk. 

WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING 

Mix and sift the flour, soda, and salt. 
Add the fruit and mix it well with the flour 
mixture. Beat the egg, add the milk and 
melted butter to it, and pour it into the dry 



STEAMED DOUGHS AND BATTERS 



141 



I ts. salt 

1 c. raisins (seeded) 
i c. currants 
(cleaned) 

1 egg (beaten light) 

2 tbs. butter 
(melted) 

f c. milk or water 
i c. molasses 

RECIPE 224. 



mixture. Beat it well, put it into a 
buttered pail or mold, and steam it about 
three hours. 



RECIPE 225. 

1 c. sugar 
1 tbs. corn starch 
1| c. boiling water 
Spk. nutmeg 
1 tbs. butter 

RECIPE 226. 

I c. butter 

1 c. powdered sugar 

I ts. vanilla 

i ts. hot water 



RECIPE 227. 

4 ts. corn starch 
I Q, §ugar 



STEAMED APPLE PUDDING^ 

Butter a tin pail and line it with a biscuit 
dough made according to No. 192. 

Fill the pail two thirds full of sliced 
apples which have been sprinkled with a 
little sugar. Cover the top of the apples 
with the biscuit dough one inch thick. 
Butter the inside of the cover and fit it 
tight on the pail. Steam it for two hours, 
according to No. 221. Serve it with plain 
pudding sauce, No. 225. 

Pudding Sauces 

PLAIN. PtJDDING SAUCE 
Mix the sugar and corn starch thoroughly, 
pour on the boiling water, and boil it ten 
minutes, stirring it constantly. Add the 
nutmeg and butter. Serve it hot. 

HARD SAUCE 

Cream the butter ; add the sugar, a tea- 
spoonful at a time, and use the hot water 
and vanilla to help in creaming it. When 
all the sugar is used, beat the mixture until 
it is light and creamy. Place the sauce in a 
serving dish, and put it in a cold place to 
harden. 

LEMON SAUCE 

Mix the corn starch and sugar, pour on 
the boiling water, and cook it for ten minutes, 



142 



SECOND YEAR 



3 c. boiling water stirring it constantly. Add the lemon juice 
1 lemon (grated rind and butter. Serve it hot. 

and juice) 
1 tbs. butter 



RECIPE 228. 

2 tbs. butter 

1 c. powdered sugar 

2 tbs. cream or 
milk 

h ts. vanilla 



CREAMY SAUCE 

Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly- 
together. Add the cream and cook it over 
hot water until it liquefies or is creamy. 
Add the vanilla and serve it. 



RECIPE 229. 

^ c. apricot pulp 
I c. thick cream 
I c. powdered sugar 



RECIPE 230. 

3 tbs. butter 

1 c. powdered sugar 

2 c. crushed straw- 
berries 



APRICOT SAUCE 

Drain the juice from the apricots and rub 
them through a sieve. Beat the sugar with 
the apricot pulp. Whip the cream stiff. 
Add it gradually to the apricot mixture and 
serve it at once. 

Peaches may be used instead of apricots, 
using less sugar. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

Remove the hulls ; wash the berries and 
crush them ; cream the butter, add the 
sugar, creaming it well with the butter. 
Add the crushed strawberries and serve it. 



RECIPE 231. FOAMY SAUCE. I 

^ c. milk Scald the milk. Beat the egg whites 

2 egg whites stiff and dry. Add the sugar slowly and 

f c. powdered sugar continue the beating. Add the milk and 

I ts. vanilla flavoring. Beat it well and serve it. 



RECIPE 232. 

White of 2 eggs 

1 c. powdered sugar 

2 tbs. hot milk 
I ts. vanilla 



FOAMY SAUCE. II 

Beat the whites stiff and dry. Add the 
sugar gradually and beat it thoroughly. 
Add the hot milk and vanilla and beat it 
with an egg beater for about two minutes. 
Serve it at once. 



STEAMED DOUGHS AND BATTERS 



143 



RECIPE 233. 

2 yolks 

1 c. powdered sugar 

2 tbs. hot milk 
I ts. vanilla 

RECIPE 234. 

1 c. milk 

2 ts. cornstarch 

1 sq. chocolate 

f c. powdered sugar 

2 tbs. boiling water 
1 egg 

I ts. vanilla 



YELLOW SAUCE 

Beat the yolks light colored and thick. 
Add the sugar slowly, beating it thoroughly. 
Add the milk and vanilla and beat it two 
minutes. Serve it at once on hot pudding. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Scald I c. milk. Mix the cornstarch and 
sugar with the remaining cold milk. Grate 
the chocolate and cook it with boiling water 
until it is smooth ; then add it to the corn- 
starch. Put cornstarch mixture into the 
hot milk and cook it ten minutes. Beat 
egg light, add it to the cooked mixture, and 
cook it two minutes longer. Remove it 
from the fire, add the vanilla, and serve it. 



RECIPE 235. 

2 c. flour 

^ c. sugar 

2 ts. baking 

powder 
I ts. salt 
I ts. cinnamon or 

nutmeg 
1 egg 

I c. milk (about) 
^ ts. melted butter 



RECIPE 236. 

1 c. molasses 

1 ts. bicarbonate of 

soda 
1 ts. salt 
1 tbs. ginger 
1 tbs. hot water 
I ts. vanilla 



DOUGHNUTS 

Mix and sift the dry materials. Beat 
the egg light, and add to it the milk and 
melted butter. Pour the liquids slowly 
into the dry mixture until the dough is of 
the proper consistency for rolling. If 
necessary, a little more milk may be added. 

Roll the dough out on a floured board 
until it is J inch thick. Cut it with a 
floured doughnut cutter and fry the 
doughnuts according to the directions on 
page 114. 

Sour milk and soda may be used in place 
of baking powder. 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

Sift the soda, salt, and ginger into the 
molasses, add the water and softened drip- 
ping, and flour enough to make dough of 
consistency for rolling. 

Roll it out on a floured board, cut it with 
a floured cutter, and bake the cookies about 
eight minutes in a moderate oven. 



144 



SECOND YEAR 



I c. softened drip- 
ping 

Flour to make a 
dough stiff enough 
to roll 

RECIPE 237. 



The vanilla may be omitted. 



SUGAR COOKIES 

Cream the butter, add the sugar, and 
cream it thoroughly with the butter ; add 
the beaten egg, milk, flour, and baking 
powder and enough more flour to make a 
dough stiff enough to roll. 
1| ts. baking powder Roll it out thin on a floured board, cut 
it with a floured cookie cutter, and bake the 
cookies in a hot oven from five to eight 
minutes. 



t c. sugar 

1 egg (beaten light) 

1 tbs. milk 

If c. flour (about) 



Spk. nutmeg, or any 
flavoring 



RECIPE 238. 
2 tbs. butter 
I c. sugar 

1 egg 

2 tbs. milk 
i ts. vanilla 

I e. flour (about) 
1 ts. baking powder 
Spk. salt 

f c. chopped nut 
meats 

RECIPE 239. 

3 tbs. butter 
I c. sugar 

1 egg 

1 tbs. milk 

1| c. flour (about) 

1| ts. baking powder 

I ts. salt 

1| sq. chocolate 

RECIPE 240. 

1 egg 
i c. sugar 



NUT COOKIES 

Mix as for sugar cookies ; add the nuts ; 
drop the dough by the spoonfuls about two 
inches apart from the point of spoon on 
buttered sheets. Decorate the cookies with 
halves of nuts. Bake them in a quick oven. 



Mix 
dough, 
cutter. 
oven. 



CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

as for sugar cookies. Chill the 

roll it, and cut it with a fancy 

Bake the cookies in a moderate 



OATMEAL COOKIES 

Mix the flour, rolled oats, salt, baking 
powder, and sugar. Beat the egg light. 



PASTRY 



145 



and add the milk to it. Pour the wet 

1 c. milk (about) mixture into the dry. Toss it on a floured 
f c. rolled oats board, roll it thin, and cut it with biscuit 

2 c. flour cutter. Bake the cookies in moderate oven. 
^ ts. salt If the mixture is too dry, add a little 
2 ts. baking powder more milk. 



Pastky 

General Composition. — Pastry is composed principally 
of flour and fat. It is not a food to be recommended as it is 
hard to digest, and for that reason should not be eaten much 
by children or by people with delicate digestion. 

Materials for Making. — Pastry flour, containing less gluten 
and more starch than bread flour, should be used, as it makes 
more tender pastry than can be secured with bread flour. 

Fat, either lard, butter, or beef dripping, or a combination 
of two or more fats, if pure, will serve. Lard makes a white 
and more flaky crust than other fats, but butter and beef 
dripping are considered more digestible than lard in pastry 
combinations. 

Salt is used to flavor, and although a small quantity is used, 
pastry lacking it tastes very flat. 

Baking Powder. A little baking powder is often used to 
make pastry lighter. 

Water. Either ice water or very cold water should always 
be used for mixing pastry. 



RECIPE 241. 

If c. pastry flour 

\ ts. salt 

\ ts. baking powder 

3 tbs. butter or 
beef dripping and 
3 tbs. lard, or 

6 tbs. lard 



PLAIN PASTRY 

Have all the materials cold. 

Mix and sift the flour, salt, and baking 
powder. When the mixture looks like meal, 
chop and rub in one half the shortening, 
and add enough cold water to make a stiff 
dough. Now turn the dough on a slightly 
floured board, pat it down, and roll it till it 



146 SECOND YEAR 

Cold water to make is | inch thick. Spread it over with the 
stiff dough remaining half of shortening, sprinkle it with 

flour, fold and roll it again into a long 
narrow strip. Roll it up like a jelly roll 
and cut it off from the end as needed. 
Handle the dough as lightly and as little 
as possible, and roU it in one direction. 
Allowing it to stand on ice before cooking 
improves it much. Bake pastry in a very 
hot oven. This makes pastry for one large 
pie. 

Pies may be made with one or two crusts. If two crusts 
are used, more pastry should be allowed for the upper than for 
the under crust. 

Fruit pies are more digestible when made with an upper 
crust only. 

All pastry should be thoroughly cooked for the purpose of 
increasing its digestibility. 

Lining a Plate with Pastry. — To line a plate, roll the pastry 
until it is one eighth of an inch thick, keeping it as nearly 
round as possible, and roll it until it is from 1 to 2 inches larger 
than the plate. Fit it smoothly on the plate by pressing it 
down gently with the back of a bent finger. Be careful not 
to stretch the pastry lining. If two crusts are to be used, 
the lower crust may be cut close to the edge of the plate. 

If no upper crust is to be used, the lower crust should be 
from 1 to 2 inches larger than the plate and should be folded 
under to form a rim. 

An upper crust should be 1 to 2 inches larger than the plate 
to allow for shrinkage and also to allow for folding it under 
the lower crust ; incisions should be made in it to allow the 
steam which forms during baking to escape. 

RECIPE 242. APPLE PIE 

5 medium-sized sour Line a plate with pastry. Wash, pare, 
apples for one quarter, core, and sUce the apples. Fill 



PASTRY 



147 



large pie 

I c. sugar 

i ts. cinnamon 
nutmeg, or 1 
lemon juice 



or 

ts. 



RECIPE 243. 

4 tbs. corn starch 

1 c' sugar 

li c. boiling water 
i tbs. butter 
Rind and juice of 1 
lemon 

2 eggs 



RECIPE 244. 

2 c. cranberries 
1 c. sugar 
I c. water 



RECIPE 245. 

1| c. cooked and 

strained squash 
^ c. sugar 



the lined plate. Mix the sugar, salt, and 
spice, and sprinkle the mixture over the 
apples. Wet the edge of the under crust, 
put on the top crust, press the edges well 
together, and fold the upper crust under the 
lower one. Bake the pie in a hot oven 
from forty to fifty minutes, or until the 
apples are cooked. One teaspoon butter 
dotted over the apples before putting on 
upper crust improves it much. 

LEMON PIE (with two crusts) 

Mix the corn starch and sugar thoroughly ; 
pour on the boiling water and boil it, 
stirring it constantly, for three minutes. 
Add the butter, lemon juice and rind, and 
beaten eggs. Mix them well. Let the 
mixture cool before putting it into the pie. 

Line a pie plate with pastry, put in the 
filling, put on the upper crust, and bake the 
pie about forty minutes, in a hot oven. 
The pie, if preferred, may be baked with 
one crust, reserving the whites for a top 
meringue. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

Wash and pick over the cranberries and 
put them into a saucepan. Add the sugar 
and water, and cook them ten minutes and 
let them cool. Line a pie plate with pastry, 
allowing it to be two inches larger than the 
plate, and make a rim. Roll and cut 
strips of pastry for the top. Fill the pie» 
arrange the strips on top, and bake the pie 
about forty minutes in a hot oven. 

SQUASH PIE 

Line a plate with pastry and make a 
raised and fluted rim. 

Mix the squash, sugar, salt, spices, beaten 



148 



SECOND YEAR 



I ts. salt 

I ts. cinnamon, or 

I ts. nutmeg or 

ginger 
1 egg (beaten) 

1 c. milk (scalded) 

RECIPE 246. 

2 eggs 

I c. sugar 

1 ts. salt 

Spk. grated nutmeg 

2 c. milk 



egg, and milk thoroughly. Fill the pie and 
bake it until the crust is brown or until the 
mixture puffs up all over. 



CUSTARD PIE 

Line a plate with pastry as 
pie. Scald the milk. Beat 
slightly; add the sugar, salt, 
Strain the mixture into the 
sprinkle it with nutmeg. Bake 
hot oven to cook the rim, then 
until the custard filling puffs 
knife blade put into center 
comes out clean. 



for squash 
the eggs 

and milk. 

plate and 
the pie in a 
cook slowly 

or until a 
of the pie 



RECIPE 247. 

2 c. rhubarb 
I c, sugar 
i ts. salt 



1 egg 

2 tbs. flour 



RHUBARB PIE 

Line a plate with pastry. Wash the 
rhubarb and cut it into inch pieces. Mix 
the sugar, salt, flour, and beaten egg, add 
the mixture to the rhubarb, put on a top 
crust, or put on strips, as in No. 244. 
Bake the pie until the crust is brown and 
the rhubarb is soft. 

The egg in this recipe may be omitted. 

Salads 

.Composition. — Salads are made of cooked and raw vege- 
tables, eggs, cheese, fish, meat, fruits, and nuts. These may 
be combined with a French, mayonnaise, or boiled dressing, 
or in some cases with a whipped-cream dressing. 

Food Value. — A meat, fish, or egg salad served with dress- 
ing contains much nourishment. A green salad has a lower 
food value, but it is wholesome, refreshing, and appetizing. 

Preparation of Salads. — Remove the bone, skin, fat, and 
gristle from meat and fish. Cut the meat, vegetables, etc., 
into pieces of uniform size. 



SALAD DRESSINGS 



149 



If any green is to be used, such as lettuce, parsley, or chick- 
ory, let it lie in cold water a full hour. Then wash it thor- 
oughly in the cold water and dry it in a towel, being careful 
not to crush it. Tie it in a thin cloth and place it on ice. 

Chill all other ingredients to be used in the salad. 

Season the salad well and garnish it attractively. Add 
the dressing immediately before serving it. 



RECIPE 248. 

I ts. salt 
I ts. pepper 
3 tbs. olive oil 
1 tbs. vinegar 

RECIPE 249. 

1 ts. mustard 
'•S ts. powdered sugar 

1 ts. salt 
Spk. cayenne 

or paprika 
Yolks of 2 eggs 
1| c. olive oil 

2 tbs. lemon juice 
2 tbs. vinegar 

2 egg whites 

(beaten stiff if de- 
sired) 



RECIPE 250. 

1 ts. cornstarch 
^ ts. mustard 
1 tbs. sugar 



Salad Dressings 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Put all the ingredients into a small milk 
jar, cover it, and shake it well. This 
dressing may be used with vegetables, or 
it may be used with other salads before 
putting on a thicker dressing. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Have all the utensils and ingredients 
very cold, and place the mixing bowl in a 
pan of ice water while blending them. 
Mix the dry ingredients and add them to 
the yolks and mix them thoroughly. Add 
a few drops of oil at a time until | cup is 
used, beating the mixture constantly with 
a wooden spoon or an egg beater. Then 
add alternately a few drops of lemon juice, 
vinegar, and the oil until all is used, and 
continue the beating, being careful not to 
let the mixture lose its stiff consistency. 
Add the beaten egg whites. 

One half cup cream, beaten stiff, may be 
added to this recipe in place of the egg 
whites. 

BOILED DRESSING 

Mix the dry ingredients. Beat the egg ; 
add to it the dry ingredients, then the butter 
milk, and vinegar. Cook the mixture in a 



150 



SECOND YEAR 



^ ts. salt 
Spk. cayenne 
1 egg 
f c. milk 
3 tbs. butter 
I c. vinegar 



double boiler, stirring it constantly until 
it thickens like boiled custard. Strain it 
and chill it. 



Vegetable and Fruit Salads 



RECIPE 251. 

4 cold boiled pota- 
toes 

I ts. salt 

Spk. pepper 

1 ts. chopped onion 

1 ts. chopped pars- 
ley 

1 e. cold cooked 
beets (cut in dice) 

RECIPE 252. 



RECIPE 253. 



RECIPE 254. 



POTATO SALAD 

Cut the potatoes into half-inch cubes, 
sprinkle over them the salt and pepper, 
add the chopped onion and parsley, 
and mix them carefully with the potatoes. 
Arrange the mixture on a salad dish, put 
the French dressing over it, and sprinkle 
the beets over the top. Add boiled salad 
dressing just before serving the salad. 

VEGETABLE SALAD 

Cold cooked beans, beets, carrots, peas, 
and raw- celery may be cut into small, uni- 
form pieces. Mix these with salad dress- 
ing, arrange the mixture on lettuce leaves, 
and serve it very cold. 

One teaspoon of chopped onion may be 
added to the salad before putting on the 



TOMATO SALAD 

Put the tomatoes into boiling water for 
a few minutes, peel them, and put them in 
a cold place until ready to serve them. 
Slice them thin, arrange the slices on a bed 
of lettuce leaves, cover each slice with 
mayonnaise dressing, and garnish it with 
sprigs of parsley. Serve it at once. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 

Peel six tomatoes and scoop out the in- 
side. Place the shells on ice to chill. 



SALADS 



151 



RECIPE 255. 

2 e. shredded white 

cabbage 
1 c. celery 

1 c. mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing 

RECIPE 256. 

2 c. chopped apples 
2 c. celery 

2 c. boiled dressing 
Chopped walnuts 



RECIPE 257. 

3 bananas 

3 oranges 

J c. grated pine- 
apple 

^ c. preserved 
peaches 

1 tbs. lemon juice 

f c. sugar 



Drain the pulp and add to it equal parts of 
celery and cucumber, mixed with mayon- 
naise dressing (No. 249). Refill the 
shells, arrange them on a bed of lettuce 
leaves, and garnish them with sprigs of 
parsley and mayonnaise dressing. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Wash the cabbage and shred it fine. Let 
it stand in cold salted water one hour; 
scrape the celery and cut it into small 
pieces. Mix the .cabbage, celery, and dress- 
ing. Chill the salad in the ice box ; garnish 
it with celery. 

APPLE AND CELERY SALAD 

Wash, pare, and chop red apples. Wash 
and chop celery. Allow equal parts of 
apple, celery, and boiled dressing. Wash, 
chill, and dry lettuce leaves and arrange 
them in cups on a small platter. Fill the 
cups with the mixture ; garnish it with 
boiled dressing and chopped walnuts. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Prepare and slice the bananas, oranges, 
and peaches. Put the slices into a glass 
dish, arranging in layers; sprinkle each 
layer with sugar; add the pineapple and 
lemon juice. 



, Fish, Egg, and Meat Salads 

RECIPE 258. LOBSTER SALAD 

Wash and dry the lettuce leaves 
and put them on ice. Open a lob- 
ster according to the directions on page 105. 
Cut the lobster meat into one-inch pieces 



152 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 259. 

2 c. cold cooked 

salmon 
Lettuce leaves 
1 c. boiled dressing 



RECIPE 260. 

6 medium lettuce 
leaves 

1 doz. sardines 

2 hard-cooked eggs 
2 ts. chopped pickle 
§ c. boiled dressing 

RECIPE 261. 

4 hard-cooked eggs 
8 lettuce leaves 
4 radishes 
f c. mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing 

RECIPE 262. 

4 hard-cooked eggs 
8 lettuce leaves 
1 c. boiled dressing 



RECIPE 263. 

2 c. chicken 
1 c. celery 
1| c. mayonnaise or 
boiled dressing 



and season it with boiled or mayonnaise 
dressing. Arrange the lobster on chilled 
lettuce leaves. Garnish it with small 
lobster claws and dressing. 

SALMON SALAD 

Wash, chill, and dry lettuce leaves. Re- 
move the skin and bones from the salmon 
and flake it into pieces about one inch in 
size. Mix the salmon and half of the salad 
dressing, using a fork and being careful not 
to break up the fish. Arrange the salmon 
on lettuce leaves and put the extra dressing 
on top. 

SARDINE SALAD 

Wash, dry, and chill the lettuce. Remove 
the bones from the sardines. Chop the 
whites of the eggs and the pickles and mix 
them. Arrange the sardines on the lettuce 
leaves. Add the egg mixture and boiled 
dressing. Crumble the yolks over the top. 

EGG SALAD. I 

Wash, dry, and chill the lettuce leaves. 
Cut the eggs into halves crosswise. Arrange 
the eggs on a bed of crisp lettuce leaves, 
garnish them with the radishes, cut into 
fancy shapes, and put the dressing on top. 

EGG SALAD. II 

Wash, dry, and chill the lettuce leaves. 
Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs ; 
chop the white fine, arrange it on lettuce 
leaves, and pour the dressing over it. 
Force the yolks through a potato ricer over 
the top. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Cut cold cooked chicken or fowl into half- 
inch cubes. Wash the celery and cut it 
into pieces of about the same size. Mix the 
chicken and celery with a half cup of salad 



INVALID COOKERY 153 

dressing. Arrange the mixture on a salad 
dish, cover it with dressing, and garnish it 
with celery tips. 

Invalid Cookery 

Importance. — Food for the sick is a matter of great im- 
portance, as in many many cases a patient's recovery de- 
pends on the kind, the quality, and the quantity of food 
furnished during illness. 

The appetite of those who are sick is poor. And generally 
speaking, a sick patient has no desire for food unless it is 
selected to his liking, cooked well, served attractively, and 
served in small quantities. So the skillful housekeeper must 
be able to know what kinds of food are good for invalids, and 
she must know how to prepare and serve it in such a way 
that the invalid will desire to eat it. 

Diet for the sick is classified as liquids, semi-solids, and 
convalescent foods. Liquid diet consists entirely of liquid 
food, such as milk, beef tea, beef juice, strained broth, strained 
gruel, and cooling drinks. These are given during severe 
illnesses. 

Tea, coffee, and other stimulants should be given only when 
the physician consents to their use by the invalid. 

Semi-solids are given in less severe illness, or when a 
patient is beginning to improve. This diet includes every- 
thing in liquid diet and also the following : — 

Apple sauce, Nos. 9-11. 

Baked apples, No. 8. 

Baked custard, No. 95. 

Baked rice. No. 57. 

Caramel junket, No. 66. 

Cereals, Nos. 51-54. 

Creamed oysters, No. 161. 



154 



SECOND YEAR 




Gelatin dishes, 


Nos. 132-136. 


Goldenrod eggs, 


No. 94. 


Ice creams, 


Nos. 300-305. 


Junket, 


No. 65. 


Milk toast, 


No. 36. 


Mutton broth. 


No. 100. 


Oyster stew 


No. 158. 


Raw oysters, 




Rhubarb sauce, 


No. 12. 


Scalloped oysters. 


No. 157. 


Sherbets, 


Nos. 296-298. 


Soft-cooked eggs. 


Nos. 45, 86, 87. 


Soft custard, 


No. 96. 


Soups, 




Steamed rice, 


No. 56. 


Stewed prunes. 


No. 16. 



Convalescent Diet. — Convalescent diet includes all easily 
digested foods. Even small quantities of foods difficult of 
digestion should be avoided. 

Preparation and Serving. — All foods for the sick should 
be carefully cooked. Hot foods should be served very hot. 
Cold foods should be served very cold. It is necessary also 
that the food be served punctually at exactly such intervals 
as the physician advises. The housekeeper should make 
a study of making the invalid tray appear dainty and attrac- 
tive. The dishes and tray linen should be the best in the 
house. A single flower or even a cluster of leaves will often 
make the tray attractive. If the contents of the tray can be 
sent into the sick room as a surprise, the appetite of the pa- 
tient is often tempted when he would not feel like eating 
what he had been expecting to see. All food should be sea- 
soned to the invalid's taste before presenting the tray to 
him. It should be removed from the room and from sight 
as soon as the patient has finished with it. 



INVALID COOKERY 



155 



RECIPE 264. 

1 lemon (juice) 

1 c. boiling water 

2 tbs. sugar 

1 thin slice lemon 



RECIPE 265. 



RECIPE 266. 

^ c. grated pine- 
apple 
Juice 1 lemon 
2 tbs. sugar 
i c. boiling water 
f c. very cold water 

RECIPE 267. 
1 orange (juice) 
1 ts. lemon juice 
1| tbs. sugar 

1 e. boiling water 

RECIPE 268. 

2 tbs. Irish moss 
2| c. boiling water 
4 tbs. lemon juice 
Sugar to taste 



RECIPE 269. 

1 tbs. whole flaxseed 
2| c. cold water 
4 tbs. lemon juice 
Sugar to taste 



LEMONADE 

Wash the lemon, cut a very thin slice 
from the center, and remove the seeds. 
Squeeze the juice from the lemon into a 
bowl, add the sugar and the boiling water ; 
cover it and set it on ice to cool. Strain 
it into a glass and put the slice of lemon on 
top. 

EFFERVESCENT DRINK 

Add to above recipe I ts. soda free 
from lumps. Stir it into the lemonade and 
drink it while it is foaming. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

Mix the pineapple, lemon juice, and sugar ; 
pour on the boiling water, and let it stand 
about fifteen minutes, or until it is cool. 
Add the cold water ; strain it into a glass. 



ORANGEADE 
Follow the directions in No. 264. 



IRISH-MOSS LEMONADE 

Pick over the moss, wash it, and allow 
it to soak in cold water about twenty 
minutes. Put the moss and the boiling 
water into the upper part of a double 
boiler and cook it until the mixture is like 
sirup. Strain it and add the sugar and 
lemon juice. Serve it hot. 

FLAXSEED TEA 

Wash the flaxseed thoroughly, put it 
into the cold water in a saucepan, and 
simmer it three quarters of an hour. 
Strain it, and if it is too thick, add boiling 



156 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 270. 

4 tbs. grape jelly 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
f c. boiling water 
Sugar to taste 

RECIPE 271. 
1 stalk rhubarb 
1 c. boiling water 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
Sugar to taste 

RECIPE 272. 
1 sour apple 
1 tbs. sugar 
1 tbs. lemon juice 
1 c. boiling water 



RECIPE 273. 

1 qt. milk 

2 tbs. sugar 
I yeast cake 

softened in 2 tbs. 
lukewarm water 



water. Add the lemon juice and sugar. 
Serve it hot. 

GRAPE WATER 

Dissolve the jelly in the boiling water 
and allow the water to cool. Add the 
lemon juice and sugar. Serve it ice cold. 

RHUBARB WATER 

Wash and wipe the rhubarb and cut it 
into thin slices, leaving the skin on. Add 
the boiling water and about 1 tbs. sugar. 
Cover it and let it stand until it is cold. 
Strain it. Add the lemon juice. 

APPLE WATER 

Wash the apple and without paring it 
cut it into thin slices. Add the boiling 
water and sugar. Cover it, and let it 
stand until it is cold ; then strain it ; add the 
lemon juice. Serve it cold. 



See No. 83. 



See No. 101. 



EGG NOG 



BEEF TEA 



PASTEURIZED MILK 

See page 59, 

KOUMISS 

Heat the milk until it is lukewarm. Add 
the sugar and stir it until it is dissolved. 
Add the yeast cake and the lukewarm water 
to the milk mixture. Fill sterile patent 
bottles to the neck. Place them in an up- 
right position in a warm (75° F.) place for 
twelve hours. Then invert them and set 
them in a cold place. When they are needed, 
open them carefully to prevent loss of the 
liquid. 



INVALID COOKERY 



157 



RECIPE 274. 

1 c. hot milk 
1| tbs. sugar 

2 tbs. lemon juice 



RECIPE 275. 
2 tbs. rice 
4 c. boiling water 
i stick cinnamon 
Salt and sugar 
Milk 

RECIPE 276. 

1 c. milk 
1 tbs. flour 
1 doz. raisins 
Spk. salt 



RECIPE 277. 

1 tbs. barley flour 

2 c. hot milk 
Salt 



RECIPE 278. 

1 tbs. Indian meal 
I tbs. flour 

1 c. cold water 

2 c. boiling water 
I ts. salt 

Milk or cream 



Koumiss should not be used after it is 
three days old. 

LEMON WHEY 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Add 
the lemon juice. Cook it without stirring 
it until the whey separates. Strain it 
through cheesecloth. Add the sugar and 
serve it hot or cold. 

RICE WATER 

Pick over the rice and wash it ; add the 
boiling water and the cinnamon ; cook it 
until the rice is thoroughly soft. Strain it, 
season it with salt and sugar (if liked), and 
dilute it with hot milk. 

FLOUR GRUEL 

Scald the milk. Mix the flour with a 
little cold milk to take out any lumps. 
Pour it into the hot milk and cook it over 
the fire for three minutes, stirring it con- 
stantly; then put it into a double boiler. 
Wash and stone the raisins, add them to 
the flour mixture, and cook it one haK hour. 
Strain it and season with salt. 

BARLEY GRUEL 

Scald the milk. 

Mix the barley flour with a little cold 
milk and stir it into the scalded milk. Cook 
it in a double boiler one and one half 
hours. Strain it and season it with salt. 

INDIAN-MEAL GRUEL 

Mix the meal, flour, and salt with the 
cold water. Pour on boiling water and cook 
it over the fire for fifteen minutes, stirring 
it constantly. Cook it in a double boiler 
one and one half hours. Strain it and 
dilute it with milk or cream. 



158 SECOND YEAR 

RECIPE 279. OATMEAL GRUEL 

I c. oatmeal and Roll the oatmeal on a board with a 

cold water rolling pin until it is mealy ; then put it 

into a tumbler and fill the tumbler with 
cold water. Stir it ; allow the meal to 
settle, and pour off the mealy water into a 
saucepan. Repeat this process as long as 
the water looks mealy. Set the saucepan 
where the gruel will simmer for one and a 
half hours. Strain it, season it with salt. 
Thin it with cream or milk, and serve it hot. 

Invalid Cookery Applied. — You have several recipes for 
making attractive and wholesome dishes for invalids. Your 
teacher will now see if you are able to apply what has been 
taught you. She will ask each girl in the class to prepare at 
home a menu telling what she would serve on a hot day for 
an invalid's breakfast, dinner, and supper. • When Avriting 
out the menu, you will also tell your teacher what you 
would do to make the tray attractive. 

She may ask you also to follow out the same direction for 
a menu to serve on a cold day. When you bring in your 
menus, the teacher will select the best and have it cooked and 
served in class. 

Sandwiches 

It is often necessary to prepare sandwiches ahead of time. 
In this case they should be wrapped in paraffin paper or in a 
slightly damp cloth to keep them fresh. 

Bread about 24 hours old is best for sandwiches. The 
crust should be removed after the sandwich is made. 

Sandwiches are daintier when served small or in fancy 
shapes, and if the butter is creamed before it is used, it will 
spread more evenly. 

For sandwich filling cold cooked meats or fish may be 
minced fine and mixed with a little salad dressing; or thin 



SANDWICHES 



159 



slices of cold meat may be used ; or chopped eggs ; or cream 
cheese with nuts ; or olives, or chopped peppers. Acids in 
the form of capers, pickles, or lemon juice are often used for 
flavor in chopped filling. 

Jelly, jams, and marmalades make very nice sweet sand- 
wiches. They may be served at afternoon teas. 



RECIPE 280. 



RECIPE 281. 



RECIPE 282. 



RECIPE 283. 

I c. cooked ham 

(chopped fine) 
I ts. chopped capers 

1 ts. prepared mus- 
tard 

2 tbs. thick white 
sauce 

Few grains cayemie 



BREAD AND BUTTER SANDWICHES 

Use white, graham, entire wheat, or 
brown bread. Remove the end shce from 
the loaf. Spread the end of the loaf with 
creamed or softened butter. Cut off the 
thinnest slice possible. Repeat until you 
have the number of slices desired. Put two 
slices together, trim off crusts, and cut the 
sandwiches into squares, triangles, oblongs, 
or rounds. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD SANDWICHES 

Butter cold brown bread and cut it into 
thin slices. Spread the slices with cream 
cheese and chopped English walnuts. 

SLICED-HAM SANDWICHES 

Slice cold ham as thinly as possible. 
Butter thin slices of bread. Put sliced ham 
between two slices of bread. Press the 
slices together, trim crusts, and cut the 
sandwiches into squares. 

CHOPPED-HAM SANDWICHES 

Mix the ingredients. Cut thin slices of 
bread, and butter them. Spread the meat 
mixture on the buttered bread and press 
two slices together. Trim them and cut 
into triangles. 



160 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 284. 



RAW-BEEF SANDWICHES 

Toast thin trimmed slices of bread. 
Butter the toast and keep it hot. Scrape 
raw beef from the bottom of the round, 
season it with salt and pepper, and spread 
it thin on slices of the toast and press two 
slices together. 

These are particularly good for convales- 
cent invalids. 



RECIPE 285. 



RECIPE 286. 

1 hard-cooked egg 

I ts. salt 
Spk. mustard 
Spk. paprika 
1 ts. butter 



RECIPE 287. 

6 sardines 

2 hard-cooked egg 

yolks 
1 tbs. butter 
I ts. lemon juice 
Few grains paprika 

or cayenne 
Few drops onion juice 

RECIPE 288. 



CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Chop cold boiled chicken, moisten it with 
mayonnaise or boiled dressing; season it 
with salt and pepper. Spread it between 
thin slices of buttered bread. Press the 
slices together, and cut them into squares. 
Minced celery may be added to the chicken. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Mash egg fine with a silver fork, add the 
seasoning and the butter and mix them in. 
Spread the egg on a thin slice of buttered 
bread, cover it with a second slice, and cut 
them into fancy shapes or triangles. Minced 
ham may be added to the egg mixture. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES 

Remove the skin and bones, mince the 
sardines, and mix in the yolks, butter, and 
seasoning. Cut thin slices of bread, spread 
them with the sardine mixture, and press 
them together in pairs. Trim off the crusts ; 
cut the sandwiches into triangles. 



CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Spread cream cheese on thin slices of 
buttered bread. Put two slices together 
and cut them into triangles. 



SANDWICHES 



161 



RECIPE 289. 

I c. cream cheese 
I c. chopped walnuts 
Salt and few grains 
of cayenne 

RECIPE 290. 



RECIPE 291. 



RECIPE 292. 



RECIPE 293. 

I c. minced cooked 

prunes 
I c. chopped figs 
J tbs. lemon juice 



RECIPE 294. 



CHEESE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Mix all the ingredients well with a fork. 
Spread the mixture on thin buttered slices 
of whole wheat bread. Press two slices 
together, and cut them into oblongs. 

CHEESE AND OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Spread butter thin crackers with a mixture 
of cream cheese and finely chopped olives 
moistened with mayonnaise dressing. Press 
two crackers well together. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Spread bread and butter sandwiches 
with a little mayonnaise dressing ; lay 
between two slices, small, fresh, crisp let- 
tuce leaves which have been thoroughly 
washed, dried, and chilled. Press them 
gently together and trim them even. 

FIG SANDWICHES 

Fill bread and butter sandwiches with 
stewed figs or a mixture of stewed figs and 
dates. 

PRUNE AND FIG SANDWICHES 

Remove the stones from the prunes; 
chop the figs. Mash and mix the prunes, 
figs, and lemon juice, using a silver fork. 
Spread the mixture on thin slices of gra- 
ham or whole wheat bread and press two 
slices together. 

JELLY SANDWICHES 

Spread thin slices of whole wheat bread 
with quince, apple, or currant jelly. Press 
two slices together, and cut them into tri- 
angles. Some people like sugar dredged 
over the outside of these sandwiches. 



162 SECOND YEAR . 

RECIPE 295. JELLY AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Spread quince jelly on thin slices of whole 
wheat, graham, or white bread, and 
sprinkle them with chopped English wal- 
nuts. Press two slices of bread together 
and cut them into triangles. 

Composition and Cost of Menus 

Pupils who have followed this course up to this point 
are now able to undertake original work in the form of com- 
posing menus. They will find great profit and interest in 
making menus suiting different sets of conditions. The main 
emphasis of this work, however, should be on planning simple 
nourishing meals, which return the greatest food value for 
the least money. This matter of the relation of expense and 
value is a very important one to the housekeeper. She spends 
most of the money which is earned. 

Girls should at this point make and discuss tables of the 
current cost of different foods. In view of the knowledge 
gained in making these tables, the menus made by the class 
should be discussed and judged on the basis of their cost and 
value. 

In making practical application of the menu which the 
teacher decides gives the most value for money expended, it 
is well to allow a few members of the class to take entire 
responsibihty of the preparation and serving, and several 
others the entire responsibility of cleaning the kitchen and 
leaving it in order. Several lessons can be spent most profit- 
ably in repeating the exercise suggested here. 

When it is practicable, the menus should be composed out- 
side of school hours, and notes for discussion should be 
brought by each pupil. 

Some pupils may be able to use such reference books as 
these: "Principles of Cookery," Barrows; '^Household 



FROZEN DESSERTS 163 

Management/' Terrill ; '' Cost of Living/' Ellen H. Richards ; 
'' Cost of Foods/' Ellen H. Richards ; " The Woman Who 
Spends/' Bertha J. Richardson; "Practical Dietetics/' 
Alida Frances Pattee. 

Frozen Desserts 

Ice Cream. — Near the end of the school year it is advis- 
able to make frozen desserts. Ice creams contain cream, or 
eggs and milk as a substitute for it ; sugar and flavoring are 
needed. 

Water ices are still simpler in their composition, as they 
contain only water, sugar, and fruit juice. 

Food Value. — The ingredients of ice cream render it 
highly nutritious. It is more welcome in hot weather. 
Both ice cream and water ices make a cooling, attractive 
food, which is often excellent for invalids. 

Freezing is accomplished by means of crushed ice and salt. 
The salt and ice combine and form an intensely cold brine 
which freezes the contents of a can immersed in it. 

Proportions of Ice and Salt. — Three parts of cracked ice 
and one of rock salt are used for freezing ice creams. Equal 
parts of ice and salt are used for sherbets and water ices. 

Adjustment of Freezer. — After placing ice in a canvas 
bag and pounding it until the ice is cracked fine, fit the empty 
can into the socket in the freezer and put in the dasher. Then 
pour the mixture to be frozen into the can, filling it not over 
three quarters full, as the mixture expands in freezing. 

Next put on the cover and adjust the cross bar so that when 
the crank is turned the can revolves. 

Packing. — Fill the space between the can and the pail 
solid with ice and salt, having ice for the bottom layer. Pack 
the pail a little above the cream in the can, turning the crank 
occasionally to let the ice and salt settle compactly. 

During the freezing, which takes about twenty minutes, 



164 



SECOND YEAR 



the crank should be turned steadily for ice creams and 
occasionally for water ices until the mixture becomes stiff 
enough to make turning difficult. 

Care after Freezing. — To avoid getting salt into the mix- 
ture, wipe the cover of the can carefully before removing it ; 
then remove the dasher and scrape the cream from the sides 
of the can and pack it down solid with a long-handled spoon. 
Put a cork into the -hole in the cover and fit the cover tight 
on the can. 

Draw off the salt water through the hole in the side of the 
pail, repack the pail with ice and salt, and cover the freezer 
with an old blanket. 

Let the cream stand at least one hour before serving it. 



RECIPE 296. 



MILK SHERBET 

Mix the sugar and lemon juice thor- 



1 qt. milk 

2 c. sugar oughly ; pour on the milk slowly and stir it 
4 lemons (strained constantly while adding it. Put it into a 

juice) freezer can and freeze it. 



RECIPE 297. 

2 c. finely shredded 

pineapple 
1 ts. granulated 

gelatin 

1 c. cold water 

2 c. boiling water 
2 c. sugar 

2 lemons (strained 
juice) 

RECIPE 298. 

1 c. lemon juice and 

rind of 1 lemon 
4 c. water 
2| e, sugar 



PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

Soak the gelatin in cold water, add the 
boiling water and sugar; stir it until the 
gelatin is dissolved, and add the lemon 
juice. Strain the mixture and set it aside 
to cool. When it is cool, add the pineapple 
to the mixture and freeze it. 



LEMON ICE 

Make a sirup of the sugar and water by 
boiling the mixture ten minutes. Add the 
grated rind and let the mixture stand until 
it is cool. Add the lemon juice, strain the 
^mixture, and freeze it. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 



165 



RECIPE 299. 

4 c. water 
2 c. sugar 
2 c. orange juice 

1 c. lemon juice 
Grated rind of two 

oranges and | 
lemon 

RECIPE 300. 

2 c. milk 

2 c. thin cream 

1 c. sugar 

2 tbs. flour 
2 eggs 

1 tbs. vanilla 

RECIPE 301. 

2 c. thick cream and 
2 c. milk, or 

4 c. thin cream 
1 c. sugar 
1 tbs. vanilla 

RECIPE 302. 



RECIPE 303. 

1 qt. thin cream 

1 c. hot water 

2 sq. unsweetened 
chocolate 

1 c. sugar 

1 ts. vanilla 

RECIPE 304. 

2 c. milk 
1 c. heavy cream 
1 c. sugar 



ORANGE ICE 

Make a sirup of the sugar and water by 
boiling the mixture ten minutes. Add the 
fruit juice and grated rind ; mix them in well ; 
cool the mixture, strain it, and freeze it. 



PLAIN ICE CREAM 

Scald the milk. Mix the sugar and flour 
thoroughly, pour on the hot milk, and cook 
it in a double boiler ten minutes, stirring it 
often. Beat the eggs ; pour in the cream, 
vanilla, and the milk. Put the two liquids 
together and freeze the mixture. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

Mix the cream, milk, sugar, and vanilla. 
Put the mixture into a freezer and freeze 
according to directions (p. 163). 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Omit the vanilla from the above recipe 
and add one box of berries which have been 
hulled, washed, and crushed. Freeze the 
mixture according to the directions on p. 163. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Melt the chocolate, add the hot water, 
and stir the mixture until it is smooth. 
Pour it into the cream, add the sugar and 
flavoring, and freeze the mixture. 



JUNKET ICE CREAM WITH PEACHES 

Mix the milk, cream, and sugar ; heat 
the mixture until it is lukewarm ; dissolve 
the junket tablets in the cold water ; add it 



166 SECOND YEAR 

1| junket tablets to the cream mixture. Add the flavoring. 

1 tbs. cold water Freeze the mixture. 

1 tbs. vanilla Mash the peaches, and when the cream is 
^ c. peaches nearly frozen, add the fruit and continue the 

freezing until the mixture is stiff. 

RECIPE 305. FRUIT ICE CREAM 

3 c. canned apricots Place a strainer over a large bowl, mash 

3 lemons (juice) the bananas and apricots into it. Rub the 

3 oranges (juice) fruits through the strainer, using the juice 

4 bananas of the lemons and oranges and the cold 
3 c. sugar water to help in the sifting. Add the cream 

2 c. water and and sugar and freeze the mixture. 
2 c. thin cream, or The cream may be omitted. 



2 c. milk 



Presekving Foods 



Variety of Preserved Foods. — You will find it interesting 
to observe lists of preserved foods because they are so great 
in variety and come from so many different countries, and are 
used so much on our tables. What countries furnish foods 
preserved in one way or in another for our Christmas dinners ? 
How many different kinds of preserved food can you count in 
the grocery when you buy provisions ? 

Time for Studying Preserving Process. — All preserving 
by a cookery class or by the housekeeper should be done at 
the time of year when the particular food to be preserved 
is abundant and inexpensive, and when it is at the most per- 
fect state of its development. Overripe fruits, for example, 
will give less satisfactory preserved results than fruit which 
is perfectly ripe. 

Ways in which Food may be Preserved. — All of the 
following varying methods are used in the preservation of 
foods : — 

Freezing or packing in ice ; for example, poultry and fish. 

Cold storage ; for example, milk, butter, meat, and eggs. 



PRESERVING FOODS 167 

Excluding air ; for example, eggs coated with vaseline, or 
covered with silicate of soda, and grapes packed in bran. 

Salting ; for example, meat and fish. 

Drying ; for example, currants, apples, apricots. 

Sugaring ; for example, jam and fruit juices. 

Canning ; for example, vegetables, fruits, and meats. 

Pickling; for example, cucumbers, onions, and fruits. 

Using antiseptics ; a process which under pure food laws is 
decreasing, as it may be dangerous to the consumer. 

Sterilizing. — Sterilizing is a process mentioned above. It 
means the destroying of all germs. This is done by means 
of heat, and usually by heat at the temperature of boiling 
water. Sterilizing and arranging for the exclusion of germs 
are the real purposes of canning. In this process all utensils 
as well as the food itself must be sterilized. 

Method of Sterilizing. — Wash one large dishpan and a 
large, shallow milk pan, and partially fill both with cold water. 

In the first pan place jars, laying them on their sides, and 
in the second pan covers of jars, spoons, and cups used for 
canning. Allow the water in both pans to hoil for ten min- 
utes. This should be done immediately before the jars are 
to be used. 

Canning Fruits. — Canning fruits, in the ordinary sense, 
means the cooking of fruit either in a heavy or thick sirup 
or in a light sirup, putting it into sterile jars, and sealing it at 
once. In canning it is necessary to work quickly so as not 
to allow new germs to collect on the sterilized material. 

Firm and not overripe fruit should be selected and a silver 
knife should always be used for paring. 

Proportions commonly used in Canning Sirups: — 

Heavy sirup — 2 c. sugar to J c. water. 

Thick sirup — 1 c. sugar to 1 c. water. 

Light sirup — 1 c. sugar to 2 c. water. 

Boil the sirups ten minutes and skim off any scum. 



168 SECOND YEAR 

The choice of a thick or a thin sirup depends on the kind of 
fruit ; the acid fruits, needing much sugar, call for thick sirup ; 
the milder fruits can be preserved in thin sirup. 

The fruit in all cases should be cooked in the sirup until 
it is tender. 

Filling Jars. — First, provide new rubbers for the jars 
every year. When ready to put the fruit into the jars, slip a 
broad skimmer under the jar and lift it; drain the water 
from the jar, and set it in the milk pan. Dip the rubber 
into boiling water and put it smoothly on the jar. Fill the 
jar to overflowing with the boiling fruit and sirup. Slip a 
spoon handle around inside of the jar in order to allow air 
bubbles to rise to the top and escape, and also to pack the fruit 
soHdly. Then put on the cover and fasten it. Place the jar 
on a board, avoiding a cold draft, and let it stand overnight. 

Before putting the jar away, wipe the outside thoroughly 
and label it. Set it in a dark closet, and examine it after one 
week to see if any air bubbles appear. If so, scald the fruit 
again and proceed as before. 

RECIPE 306. RASPBERRIES AND CURRANTS 

2^ qt. raspberries Pick over the fruit and wash and drain it. 

1 qt. currants Put the currants, a few at a time, into the 
4 c. sugar preserving kettle, and mash them with a 

wooden masher. Cook them slowly one 
hour, then strain the juice through thick 
cheesecloth. Return the juice to the kettle, 
add the sugar, and cook the sirup slowly 
about twenty-five minutes. Add the rasp- 
berries (when the sirup is boiling) one quart 
at a time. Boil the fruit about three min- 
utes, then put it into jars. Repeat the 
process until all the raspberries are cooked. 

RECIPE 307. BLUEBERRIES 

6 qt. berries Pick over the berries and wash and drain 

2 c. sugar them. Put the water, berries, and sugar 



PRESERVING FOODS 



169 



1 c. water 



RECIPE 308. 



RECIPE 309. 



RECIPE 310. 



RECIPE 311. 



RECIPE 312. 



into the preserving kettle and heat them 
slowly. Boil them fifteen minutes. Put 
them into jars. 

STRAWBERRIES 

Use equal weights of sugar and straw- 
berries. Put the berries into the -preserving 
kettle in layers, sprinkling sugar over each 
layer. Place the kettle on the range and 
heat the fruit and sugar to the boiling point. 
Skim off the scum. Boil the fruit twelve 
minutes. Put it into sterilized tumblers or 
small jars. 

PEACHES 

Put the peaches into boiling water, and 
let them stand just long enough to soften 
the skin. Remove the skins, cut the fruit 
into halves and take out the stones, or the 
peaches may be put up whole. Cook them 
in sirup until they are tender (for rules for 
sirup, see p. 167). Put the fruit into jars. 

PLUMS 

Wash the plums, and prick them to pre- 
vent their bursting; add the plums to 
sirup (p. 167) ; and cook them until they are 
tender (about three minutes). Put them 
into jars. 

PEARS 

After washing the pears, pare them and 
cut them into halves and remove the cores. 
Put them into cold water. Make a thin 
sirup (p. 167). 

If working alone, cook only enough pears 
to fill one jar at a time. 

QUINCES 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core the quinces. 
Put them into preserving kettle and cover 
them with boiling water. Cook them slowly, 
or until they are tender. Make a heavj^ 



170 



SECOND YEAR 



sirup (p. 167). Add the quinces to the 
sirup, a small quantity at a time ; cover the 
kettle and let the quinces cook slowly or 
until they are a dark red color. Put the 
fruit into jars. If cooked too rapidly, 
quinces will not have the attractive rich, red 
color to be gained by slow cooking. 



RECIPE 313. 



CRAB APPLE 

Wash the fruit, and remove the blossom 
end. Use heavy sirup (p. 167). Cook the 
fruit in the boiling sirup until it is tender 
(from thirty to forty-five minutes). Put it 
into jars. 



Pickling 

RECIPE 314. SWEET PICKLED PEARS 

1 pk. pears Boil the vinegar, sugar, and cinnamon 

2 lb. brown sugar together for fifteen minutes. Wash, pare, 
1 oz. stick cinnamon quarter, and core the pears ; put two whole 



Cloves 

2 c. vinegar 

RECIPE 315. 

i pk. peaches 

2 lb. brown sugar 

1 oz. stick cinnamon 

1 tbs. whole cloves 

2 in. piece of ginger 
root 

2 c. vinegar 

RECIPE 316. 

4 c. sugar 

2 tbs. cinnamon 

1 tbs, whole clove 

2 c. vinegar 
Watermelon rind 



cloves into each quarter. Cook a few 
pears at a time, in sirup, until they are 
tender. Put them into jars. 

SPICED PEACHES 

Tie the spices in a cheesecloth bag. 
Boil the vinegar and sugar together for 
ten minutes ; add the spices. 

Scald the peaches, peel them, and cook 
them in sirup until they are tender. 

Put them into jars. 

SWEET PICKLED WATERMELON 

Pear the watermelon rind. Cut it into 
two-inch squares and cook it in boiling 
water until it is tender. 

Put the vinegar, sugar, and spices (tied 
in a cheesecloth bag) into a preserving 



PICKLING 



171 



RECIPE 317. 



RECIPE 318. 

I pk. green tomatoes 
^ small cauliflower 

3 small cucumbers 
1 bunch celery 

1 pt. small onions 

2 green peppers 

2 tbs. mustard seed 
2 tbs. cinnamon 
1 tbs. cloves 
1 tbs. allspice 

1 tbs. pepper 

2 e. salt 

2 qts. vinegar 

RECIPE 319. 

12 ripe tomatoes 

4 red peppers 
(chopped fine) 

large onions 
(chopped fine) 
c. brown sugar 
tbs. cloves 

2 tbs. allspice 

2 tbs. cinnamon 

1 tbs. salt 

I ts. grated nutmeg 

2| c. vinegar 



kettle, boil the mixture ten minutes, and 
then cook it slowly for about two hours, or 
until the sirup is thick. Add the melon 
rind and simmer it about one hour. Put 
it into jars. 

TOMATOES 
Scald tomatoes, remove the skins, and cut 
the tomatoes into quarters. Put them into 
a preserving kettle and heat them slowly; 
then boil them about fifteen minutes, 
stirring them often, skimming off. the scum 
frequently. Put them into jars. 

CHOW CHOW 

Prepare tl^p vegetables and cut them into 
small pieces. Put them into a large pre- 
serving kettle and sprinkle them freely with 
2 c. salt. Let them stand at least twenty- 
hour hours, then drain them. Boil the 
vinegar and spices together for ten minutes ; 
add the vegetables and cook them until 
they are thoroughly soft. This chow chow 
may be kept in a stone jar. 

Note. — Whole spice may be used instead 
of ground spice. 



CHILI SAUCE 

Scald the tomatoes, remove the skins, and 
slice the tomatoes. Chop the peppers and 
onions. Put the vinegar, sugar, and spices 
into a preserving kettle, add the prepared 
vegetables, and cook them slowly from two 
and one half to three hours. Put the chUi 
sauce into air-tight jars. 



172 SECOND YEAR 

RECIPE 320. TOMATO CATCHUP 

12 ripe tomatoes Scald the tomatoes and remove the skins. 

3 green peppers Put all the ingredients into a preserving 

(chopped) kettle and cook them about seven hours, 

3 large onions stirring them often. Strain the catchup 
(chopped) and pour it into sterilized bottles and seal 

2 tbs. salt them. 

1 G. brown sugar 

2 tbs. cinnamon 
1 tbs, ginger 

1 tbs. mustard 

4 e. vinegar 

Jellies 

Jellies are made of cooked fruit juice and sugar. Equal 
parts of each are generally used. 

Materials for Making. — Fresh fruits, such as cranberries, 
crabapples, quinces, grapes, currants, and underripe black- 
berries, are the fruits whose juices, together with sugar and 
sometimes water, are usually chosen for jelly making. 

Utensils Required. — Agate or porcelain-lined saucepan. 

Silver or wooden spoon. 

Shallow pan for heating sugar. 

Plate for testing. 

Cheesecloth for straining. 

Pitcher for pouring. 

Method of Making. — First prepare the fruit, remembering 
the following facts : — 

All fruit selected should be firm and not overripe. 

Large fruits should be washed and cut into pieces. 

Small fruits should be washed, drained, and stemmed. 

Large fruits require cooking until they are soft, in water 
enough to cover them. 

Small watery fruits such as grapes and currants supply all 
water needed. 

In cooking the. fruit it is necessary to remember that hard 



JELLIES 173 

boiling causes jelly to crystallize or granulate, and that gentle 
simmering without stirring makes it fine and clear. Then 
these directions should be followed : — 

Heat the fruit slowly until juice flows, stirring or not accord- 
ing to special directions for the fruit used. 

Straining. — Remove the saucepan from the fire and strain 
the juice through a double cheesecloth, or flannel bag. 

Suspend the bag over a dish and allow the juice to driy, 
but do not squeeze the bag. 

The bag may be squeezed at end of dripping process, and 
juice which is squeezed through the bag may be used for mar- 
malade or second-grade jelly; produced in this way the jelly 
will lack the clearness of first-quality jelly. 

Heating Sugar. — Measure one cup of sugar for every cup 
of fruit juice and place it in a shallow pan in the oven to heat. 
Stir it frequently to prevent its burning. 

Cooking Juice. — Put the strained juice into saucepan and 
boil it about twenty-five minutes. Skim it carefully with a 
silver spoon. Add an equal quantity of the heated sugar 
and cook the mixture slowly until the sugar is dissolved ; then 
boil it for ten minutes. 

Trying or Testing Jelly. — Take out a small quantity of 
the sirup with a spoon and pour it upon a cold plate. Set it 
in cool place. If it is sufficiently cooked, the juice will stiffen 
or jell in a few minutes. Pour the cooked juice into a hot, 
sterilized pitcher. 

Putting into Tumblers. — Pour the juice into steriHzed 
tumblers, and when they are cool, cover them with tin covers 
or melted paraffin, or with disks of thick white paper one half 
inch larger in diameter than top of glass. Wet the paper 
disks with a mixture made of beaten white of one egg and 
1 tbs. cold water, and use them as covers, pressing down the 
edges to the sides of the glass to fasten them. 

Set the tumblers away in a cool, dark place. 



174 

RECIPE 321. 

1 qt. cranberries 

2 c. water 
Sugar 



SECOND YEAR 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Pick over the berries and wash them ; cook 
them with the water in a preserving kettle 
for ten minutes. Strain the juice through 
cheesecloth. Measure the juice, add one 
half as much heated sugar, and boil the 
mixture for ten minutes longer. Put the 
jelly into sterilized glasses. 



RECIPE 322. 



QUINCE JELLY 

Use parings, cores, and all imperfect 
pieces cut from the fruit used in canning 
quinces. Cut these pieces very fine and 
put them into a preserving kettle. Allow 
one quart of water to every two quarts of 
fruit and parings. Put the kettle over the 
fire and cook the fruit gently two and one 
half hours. Strain the juice and proceed as 
in general directions for jelly making. 



RECIPE 323. 



GRAPE JELLY 

Acid grapes or grapes underripe rather 
than very sweet ones are best for this jelly. 
Wild grapes make a delicious jelly. Re- 
move all stems from the grapes, wash and 
drain the grapes and put them into a pre- 
serving kettle, and crush them with a 
wooden masher. Stir them to prevent 
their burning. Cook them until the seeds 
se.parate from the pulp. Strain the juice 
through a jelly bag, but do not press it. 
Measure the juice, and add an equal 
quantity of heated sugar to the grape 
juice. Put the mixture into the kettle and 
cook it (stirring it occasionally) and allow 
it to boil about twenty-five minutes. Put 
the jelly into a hot sterilized pitcher and 
from it fill sterile tumblers. Let them 
stand overnight and then cover them. 



MARMALADES I75 

Marmalades 

Marmalades are made from the juice and pulp of fruits 
with an equal quantity, or a little less, of sugar, and are 
sometimes called second-quality jelly. 

Suitable Fruits. — Marmalades may be made of grapes, 
quinces, oranges, grape fruit, or peaches. 

Method of Making. — Marmalades require great care in 
cooking as they are apt to stick to the preserving kettle and 
burn on. When large, the fruits should be washed and cut 
into pieces ; when small, they should be washed, drained, and 
stemmed. 

Weigh the fruit and allow as much sugar as yoi^ have fruit, 
or if you prefer to have the marmalade less sweet, use | lb. 
of sugar to 1 lb. fruit. 

Next rinse the preserving kettle with cold water that it 
may be somewhat moist on the bottom and sides. 

Put alternate layers of fruit and sugar into the kettle, 
beginning with fruit. 

In cooking the fruit, heat it slowly and stir it frequently in 
order to break the fruit up as much as possible. 

Cook it slowly for about two hours until the mixture is 
thick. 

Put it into sterilized tumblers or small jars; cover them 
with tin lids or with waxed paper. 

RECIPE 324. ORANGE MARMALADE 

5 lb. oranges Peel the oranges and lemons ; cut the 

3 lemons peel into quarters, cover it with boiling 

5 lb. sugar water, and cook it until it is tender. Drain 

Boiling water the peel and scrape all white peel from it. 

Cut the peel into narrow strips. Slice the 

oranges and lemons, rejecting seeds and 

tough stringy portions. Put the fruit into 

a preserving kettle and cook it about one 



176 



SECOND YEAR 



RECIPE 325. 

1 large grapefruit 

2 large navel oranges 
1 lemon 

5 lb. sugar 

18 c. cold water 



RECIPE 326. 

5 lb. peaches 
5 lb. sugar 

3 lemons (juice) 

4 c. water 



hour in 4 cups of water ; add the peel and 
sugar and cook the mixture slowly about 
two hours, or until the sirup is thick. Put 
the marmalade into sterilized tumblers or 
small jars and cover them. 

ORANGE AND GRAPEFRUIT MAR- 
MALADE 

Wash the fruit, cut it into very thin 
slices, and cut the slices into narrow strips. 
Use every part of the fruit but the cores 
and seeds. Cover the fruit with the water 
and let it stand twenty-four hours ; boil it 
rapidly uncovered for ten minutes and let 
it stand another twenty-four hours ; bring 
it to the boiling point, add the sugar and 
boil it two hours, or until the jelly point 
is reached. The cooking should be done 
in a broad, shallow, uncovered pan. 

PEACH MARMALADE 

Scald the peaches and remove the skins. 
Cut the peaches into small pieces. Cook 
the fruit and water together slowly for 
about one and a half hours, or until the 
fruit is thoroughly soft. Stir it frequently. 
Rub the cooked fruit through a strainer, 
return it to the kettle, add the sugar and 
lemon juice, and cook it about one half 
hour longer, stirring it occasionally. Put 
it into sterilized glasses. 

Apricot, quince, plum, and prune mar- 
malades may be made in like manner. 



Sugar 

It is suggested that lessons on sugar and candy be given dur- 
ing the week preceding Christmas, when sweets will be espe- 
cially useful to children as gifts to their friends. 



CANDY MAKING 177 

Sources and Nature of Sugar. — Sugars are widely dis- 
tributed in nature. They are found principally in the juice 
of sugar cane, in the sap of the sugar maple tree, and in sugar 
beets. 

Sugar differs from starch in appearance, in its sweet taste, 
and in being soluble in cold water. Its food value is about the 
same as that of starch, and all starches must be converted 
into sugar before they can be assimilated. 

Sugar is pleasing to the taste, and one of the best heat- 
giving and force-producing foods. That is one reason why 
children who are naturally more active than adults are eager 
for sweets. In moderate quantities it is easily digestible, 
and much more can be digested by people who work in the 
open air than by those who work indoors. 

Kinds. — There are three principal classes of sugar : — 

Cane sugar or sucrose. 

Grape sugar or glucose. 

Milk sugar or lactose. 

Cane sugar, or sucrose, is obtained from sugar cane, beets, 
and the sugar maple. 

Grape sugar, or glucose, is found in abundance in grapes, 
and in smaller quantities in many other fruits. It is only half 
as sweet as cane sugar. 

Milk sugar, or lactose, is obtained from milk. 

Honey contains both cane sugar and grape sugar. 

Products of Sugar Cane. — The juice of the sugar cane is 
made into seven common forms of sweetening. They are 
molasses, sirup, brown sugar, loaf sugar, granulated sugar, 
powdered sugar, and confectioner's sugar. 

Candy Making 

Candy is a useful article of food when eaten at proper 
times and in proper quantities. 



178 SECOND YEAR 

One way to avoid an excess in the amount taken is to eat 
it at the close of a meal. When eaten between meals, it spoils 
the appetite for other foods, as well as tempts one to eat too 
much of it. 

Home-made candy is cheaper and purer than that generally 
bought at the stores. Much of the candy bought is made 
from impure sugar and flavorings, and sometimes dangerous 
coloring matter has been found in cheap candy. 

Candy Makers' Terms. — Candy makers use soft hall, hard 
ball, thread, and the crack to describe sugar at different stages 
in its cooking. 

Soft hall means sugar cooked till a little, dropped into cold 
water and rolled between the fingers, becomes a soft ball. 

Hard hall means sugar cooked till a little, dropped into 
cold water and rolled between the fingers, becomes a hard 
ball. 

Thread means sugar cooked till a drop let fall from a spoon 
spins itself into a fine thread. 

The Crack means sugar cooked till it becomes brittle if 
dropped into cold water. 

Helps to Successful Candy Making. — Before starting to 
make candy have ready all materials and utensils for cooking. 
If nuts are to be used, have them ready also. Have the pans 
buttered. Have cold water ready in which to try the candy. 
After pouring the cooked candy into the pan, do not mar its 
surface by putting the scrapings from the pan on it. 

Hard Candies 

RECIPE 327. PEANUT BRITTLE 

2 c. sugar Put the peanuts into a slightly buttered 

1 e. peanuts tin pan and set it on the back of the range. 

(chopped fine) Cook the sugar in an iron frying pan, 

stirring it constantly that it may not burn. 



HARD CANDIES 



179 



RECIPE 328. 

2 c. molasses 

1 c. brown sugar 

3 tbs. butter 
1 tbs. vinegar 



RECIPE 329. 

2 c. sugar 

1 c. vinegar 

2 tbs. butter 



When the sugar is a clear, yellow sirup, 
pour it over the peanuts. 

Cut the candy into squares while it is 
still warm. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

Mix the molasses, sugar, and butter 
together ; put the mixture into a saucepan 
and cook it slowly until the sugar is dis- 
solved. Boil it until it forms a hard ball 
when dropped into cold water. Add the 
vinegar and continue the cooking until the 
mixture will become brittle. Pour it into 
a buttered pan and mark it off into squares 
while it is warm. 

VINEGAR CANDY 

Mix all the ingredients together in a 
saucepan. Stir the mixture over the fire 
until the sugar is dissolved, and occasionally 
afterward. Boil it until it is brittle when 
tried in cold water. Pour it on a buttered 
plate to cool, and mark it into squares 
while it is warm. 



RECIPE 330. 

2 c. light brown 

sugar 
J c. molasses 
2 tbs. water 
2 tbs. lemon juice or 

vinegar 
J ts. salt 
2 tbs. butter 

1 ts. vanilla 

RECIPE 331. 

2 c. granulated 
sugar 

I c. water 

1 ts. lemon juic^ 



BUTTER TAFFY 

Boil the first five ingredients together 
until the sirup forms a hard ball in cold 
water. Add the butter and continue the 
cooking until the mixture, when tested, 
becomes brittle. Remove it from the 
fire, add the vanilla, and pour the taffy 
into a buttered pan. When it is nearly 
cool, mark it into squares. 

BARLEY SUGAR 

Mix all the ingredients together in a 
saucepan. Put the mixture over the fire 
and boil it without stirring it until the 
sirup begins to txirn light yellow, or be- 



180 



SECOND YEAR 



comes brittle when dropped into cold water. 
Pour it into a buttered pan, and when it is 
nearly cool, mark it into squares. 

This candy is used to cover fruits and 
nuts, which, when so covered, are called 
glace fruits or glace nuts. 

Soft Candies 



RECIPE 332. 
3 c. sugar 

i ts. cream of tartar 
I ts. vanilla 
f c. water 



PLAIN FONDANT 

Put the sugar, cream of tartar, and water 
into an agate saucepan and stir the mixture 
thoroughly. Place it on the range and heat 
it slowly to the boiling point. Boil it with- 
out stirring it until the sirup threads, or 
until it forms a soft ball in cold water. 
After the sirup has been boiling a few 
minutes sugar will adhere to sides of the 
saucepan. This should be removed by 
washing it off with a piece of soft cloth 
dipped in cold water. When the fondant 
is cooked, add the vanilla, pour the sirup 
slowly on a large platter, and let it stand 
until it is nearly cool, or until it can be 
handled. Knead it, like bread dough, until 
it is perfectly smooth. Put it into a 
covered jar and let it stand at least twenty- 
four hours before using it. 

Fondant is used in many ways : plain, 
for the centers of chocolate creams and 
bonbons, mixed with coconut, nuts, 
candied cherries, dates, figs, etc., and as 
frosting for cakes. 

Any other flavoring may be substituted 
for vanilla. 



RECIPE 333. 



CHOCOLATE FONDANT 

Add two squares of grated chocolate to 
the ingredients for plain fondant and cook 
them as in No. 332. 



SOFT CANDIES 



181 



RECIPE 334. 



RECIPE 335. 

2 c. maple sugar 
(broken up small) 
1 c. white sugar 
I ts. cream of tartar 
1 c. water 

RECIPE 336. 



RECIPE 337. 



RECIPE 338. 



RECIPE 339. 



RECIPE 340. 



COFFEE FONDANT 

Add strained, strong coffee instead of the 
water used in No. 332. 

MAPLE FONDANT 

Make according to No. 332. 



CREAM MINTS 

Stir fondant over hot water until it is 
melted. Flavor it with a few drops of oil 
of wintergreen, peppermint, clove, or with 
orange or lemon. Drop the fondant from 
the tip of a teaspoon on oiled paper. 

MAPLE NUT BAR 

Stir maple fondant over hot water until 
it is melted. Add one cup of any kind of 
chopped nut meats. Pour the mixture 
into an oiled pan, let it cool, and cut it 
into bars with a sharp, broad knife. 

CREAMED WALNUTS 
Halve walnuts. Make a small ball of 
white fondant. Press a half walnut on 
each side of the ball and flatten it slightly. 

CREAMED DATES 

Wash the dates thoroughly, dry them and 
remove the stones. Fill the hollow dates 
with small pieces of white fondant. Press 
the dates into shape and roll them in fine 
granulated sugar. 

OPERA CARAMELS 

Stir white fondant over hot water until 
it is melted. Add one cup of chopped 
nut meats. Pour the mixture into a pan 
which has been slightly oiled or buttered. 



182 



SECOND YEAR 



When it is nearly cold, cut into it squares 
with a sharp knife. 

RECIPE 341. CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

2 c. Kght brown Put the sugar, milk, chocolate, and 
sugar butter into a saucepan and mix them well. 

1 c. milk Place the mixture over the fire and heat it 

2 sq. chocolate slowly to the boiling point, and boil it 
2 tbs. butter slowly (without stirring) until it forms a 
^ ts. vanilla soft ball in cold water. Take it from the 

fire, add the vanilla, place the saucepan in 
a pan of cold water, and beat the fudge 
until it is creamy. Pour it into a buttered 
pan to cool. 



RECIPE 342. 
1 c. brown sugar 
1 c. white sugar 
f c. milk 
3 tbs. butter 
1 c. broken 

meats or 
1 c. coconut 
I ts. vanilla 



BROWN SUGAR CANDY OR PINOCHE 

Cook according to No. 341. Add the 

nut meats and vanilla. Beat the mixture 

until it is thick, pour it into a buttered 

pan, and when it is nearly cool, cut it into 

nut squares. 



DIGESTIVE PROCESSES 

While we are chewing our food, the first step in digestion 
is taking place. The mouth secretes a fluid called saliva, 
which mixes with the food. The saliva contains a ferment 
which changes the starch in the food to a more soluble sub- 
stance, a kind of sugar. The amount of starch digested in 
the mouth depends upon the length of time we hold the food 
in the mouth, the amount it is chewed, and the manner in 
which the food has been cooked. 

When the food leaves the mouth, it passes down the food 
pipe into the stomach. Just as soon as the food reaches the 
stomach the walls of the stomach begin to be active. They 
push the food along to the further end, mixing it with another 
digestive juice called the gastric juice. This juice contains 
two ferments which affect only the proteid foods, changing 
them into soluble substances. All the time the food is in the 
stomach it is being mixed with the hydrochloric acid of the 
gastric juice which sterilizes the food and keeps it free from 
bacteria. 

When the food leaves the stomach, it passes into the next 
organ of digestion, the small intestine. Upon entering the 
small intestine it is immediately mixed with the digestive 
juices there. These juices are called the pancreatic juice, 
the intestinal juice, and the bile. The pancreatic juice con- 
tains a ferment which will change starch into sugar ; a fer- 
ment which will make proteids soluble, and another which 
will divide the fats so that they can be absorbed. The in- 
testinal juice contains ferments which act on foods in the same 
way as the pancreatic juice. In this way any starch which 

183 



184 SECOND YEAR 

escapes the saliva, or any proteid which escapes the gastric 
juice, can be digested in the intestines. 

The bile is not really a digestive juice, but mixes with the 
food and sterilizes it. All the time the food is in the small 
intestine the latter keeps contracting in a wavelike motion, 
moving the food along the long track of the intestine. 

Nearly all of the food is absorbed through the walls of the 
small intestines. The food which is not absorbed passes 
into the large intestines, where the absorption continues; 
the refuse passes out of the body as waste material. 

USES OF FOOD TO THE HUMAN BODY 

The lining of the intestines is covered with tiny projec- 
tions called villi. These take the digested food out of the 
intestines and give it to the blood. The blood takes the sol- 
uble carbohydrates and proteids to the liver. If there is 
more carbohydrate than is needed for the day's use, the excess 
is stored in the liver as animal starch. The rest goes to the 
blood, enters the muscles, and is oxidized to produce energy. 
If we have still an excess, it is stored as fat. 

The proteids leave the liver and pass out into the blood. 
The nitrogen in the proteids is used to replace tissue and to 
build new. If there is more nitrogen than we need, it passes 
from the body, and the remaining elements in the proteids 
are used to produce energy. 

The fats leave the intestine through the villi into a set of 
vessels called the lacteals. These empty into larger vessels 
which carry the fats to one of the large blood vessels in the 
left side of the neck. Here the fats enter the circulation. A 
large part of the fat is oxidized to furnish energy. All of 
our tissues have the power of storing excess fat, which the 
body uses as it has need. 



HOME NURSING 

The Sick Room. — The sick room should, if possible, have 
a southern exposure, and at least two windows. The farther 
removed it is from the noise of the house and street, the bet- 
ter it will be for the patient. 

When preparing the room for the patient, remove any 
heavy hangings and all upholstered furniture. All the hang- 
ings of the room should be of washable material. The covers 
for the tables, bureaus, and chairs, etc., should be of white 
linen. The bed should be of iron. The mattress should be 
of hair. Place the bed so that it stands out from the wall 
on all sides, and so that the light from the windows does not 
come directly in the patient's eyes. There should be one 
table beside the bed for the patient's bell, books, etc., and 
one on the other side of the room for the nurse's charts, 
medicines, etc. 

The room should be carefully swept each day. A hard- 
wood floor is the easiest to keep clean. If the floor is bare, 
wrap the broom in a cloth, for this will take up the dust 
with very little noise. If the room is carpeted, sweep it 
with a damp broom. Always dust with a duster which has 
been dampened in some mild antiseptic solution. 

The air in the room muet be kept as fresh as the air out- 
side. This can be done by keeping the windows open slightly 
at both top and bottom, being careful to have plenty of hght 
but warm clothing over the patient. Twice each day the 
windows must be opened mde, and the air completely 
changed. Screens should be placed between the bed and 
the windows to prevent draughts coming in contact with the 

185 



186 SECOND YEAR 

patient. Do not let the temperature go above 70° in the 
daytime or 68° at night. 

Care of the Patient. — One very essential point in the care 
of the patient is the making of the bed. Your school nurse 
will show you the proper method of making a hospital bed, 
and how to change it if the patient is too ill to sit up while 
the bed is being remade. If the patient has long hair, brush 
it and braid it in two braids. The mouth and teeth should 
be kept sweet and clean by brushing and rinsing after eating 
and medicine taking. Keep the patient comfortable by fre- 
quently rearranging the pillows and straightening up the bed. 

The normal temperature of the body is 98°. A tempera- 
ture above or below this indicates that something is wrong 
somewhere. The temperature should be taken twice a day 
with a clinical thermometer. The pulse is also a guide to 
the patient's condition, for it tells the condition of the heart. 
To take the pulse requires practice. Your school nurse will 
show you how to do it and how to become thoroughly 
acquainted with the characteristics of a healthy pulse. The 
average pulse of a man is 60-70 beats per minute, 

of a woman is 65-80 beats per minute, 
of a child is 90-100 beats per minute. 

Your manner towards the patient must be kind and consid- 
erate. In order to care for the patient properly, you must 
take time for rest and exercise yourself. Dress in some light 
wash material. Do not whisper in the sick room or discuss 
the symptoms of the case with the patient. Do not lean or 
sit on the bed. Keep all the windows, chairs, doors, etc., 
oiled so that they cannot squeak and annoy the patient. 

First Aid. — One of the chief things to remember in all 
cases of sudden accident where first aid is necessary is self- 
control. If the accident is severe, send for the doctor at 
once, and in the meantime do what you can to make the 
patient comfortable. Many minor cases of accident can be 



HOME NURSING 187 

cared for, and serious results prevented by prompt attention 
from a member of the family who understands something of 
the circulation of the blood, infection of wounds, causes and 
treatment of sudden unconsciousness, and antidotes for 
poisons. 

Bleeding. — Blood from an artery is bright red, and flows 
rapidly in spurts. Blood from a capillary is bright red, but 
oozes out slowly. Blood from a vein is dark blue, flowing 
in a steady uniform stream. The quickest method of stop- 
ping the flow of blood is to elevate the part, and apply pres- 
sure above, below, and on, the wound. Make a compress of 
a clean bandage, and bind it directly on the wound until the 
bleeding stops. In cases of severe bleeding bind a bandage 
tightly above the wound, stick a pencil or stick through this, 
and turn it until the blood vessel has been closed. This is 
called a tourniquet. Ice causes the artery walls to contract 
and this helps to stop the bleeding. Alum, vinegar, and 
salt all act in the same way, and can be used in an emer- 
gency. 

Nose bleed is a form of bleeding which is sometimes diffi- 
cult to check. Elevate the chin and the arm on the bleeding 
side, and apply ice to the back of the neck and forehead. 
Snuff up salt ice water, and if all this fails, plug the nose 
with wads of absorbent cotton. 

Infection. — Modern surgery aims at the prevention of in- 
fection by bacteria. An aseptic wound is a wound free from 
bacteria, and an antiseptic is a substance which is used to 
keep the wound surgically clean. Some of the antiseptics 
which are used now are hydrogen dioxide and boric acid. 
One should always keep some good antiseptic in a convenient 
place, with a package of antiseptic gauze and a roll of anti- 
septic bandage. 

In caring for a wound, stop the bleeding first. Then wash 
the wound carefully with an antiseptic solution, and bind on 



188 SECOND YEAR 

a compress, made from antiseptic gauze wet with an anti- 
septic solution. 

Burns and Scalds. — Excluding the air will allay the pain 
of a burn or scald. This is best done by covering the burn 
with cloths wet with a paste of baking soda or of boric acid. 

If a burn, however slight, covers one third of the surface 
of the body, particularly if the patient is a small child, a 
doctor should be called at once, for the shock resulting from 
such a burn may prove fatal, whereas a deep burn, unless 
the nerves and blood vessels are destroyed, may not be so 
serious. When the skin is destroyed, the same caution must 
be taken against infection as in other wounds. 

Sudden Unconsciousness. — Unconsciousness is the loss of 
sensation and voluntary motion. The following rules may 
be followed in any case of unconsciousness : — 

1. Give fresh air. Do not allow crowding around the 
patient. 

2. Loosen the patient's clothing at neck and waist and 
chest. 

3. Lower the patient's head if the face is pale. 

4. Put a pillow under the patient's head if the face is 
flushed. 

5. Wet the patient's face with cold water. 

6. Do not give the patient stimulants unless you are sure 
it is a case of fainting. 

Poisons. — In most cases of poisoning, the person should 
be made to vomit. This may sometimes be accomplished 
by putting a finger dow^n the throat while an emetic is being 
prepared. An emetic is a mixture of warm water with salt 
or mustard. When taken, it produces the feeling of nausea. 

A physician should be sent for at once. In the meantime, 
prepare the emetic and find out the antidote for the poison. 
The right antidote will act chemically on the poison and 
produce a harmless compound. 



HOME NURSING 



189 



Poisons may be divided into three classes: corrosives, 
irritants, and narcotics. A corrosive poison begins to burn 
the tissues instantly. An irritant poison enters the tissues, 
producing inflammation. A narcotic poison tends to pro- 
duce unconsciousness. 



CORROSIVE POISONS 

Acids 

Acetic acid 

Oxalic acid 

Hydrochloric acid 
Carbolic Acid 
Alkalies 

Ammonia 

Potash 

Lime 

IRRITANT POISONS 

Arsenic 

Paris green 

Rough on rats . 
Mercury 

Corrosive sublimate 

Calomel 
Iodine 



ANTIDOTES 

Some alkali, such as baking soda dis- 
solved in a little water. 



Alcohol. 

Some mild acid, as vinegar or lemon juice, 
sweet oil to form an emulsion. 



ANTIDOTES 

An emetic of mustard and water. 



White of egg. 



Starch paste. 



NARCOTIC POISONS 

Aconite 
Alcohol 



Chloroform 

Opium 
Laudanum 
Paragoric 
Morphine 



ANTIDOTES 



Emetic. 

Cold applications to the head, heat at the 
feet, smelling salts. 

Artificial respiration, stimulants. 

Emetic — strong black coffee. Keep the 
patient awake. 



HOUSEHOLD SANITATION 

We have in the home two kinds of dust ; visible or dead 
dust, and invisible, or Hve dust. The live dust consists of 
microscopic plants, yeast, bacteria, and mold. The dead 
dust consists of bits of wood, sand, lint, etc. It can be 
removed by the mechanical means of brooms, brushes, and 
dusters. But the invisible or live dust needs scientific treat- 
ment. It is this dust which causes disease and makes our 
food decay. The disposal of the waste material which at- 
tracts the invisible dust is always a problem, and the house- 
keeper must make a study of it in order to keep the house in 
a sanitary condition. 

Inorganic waste, like ashes, tin cans, and bottles, is useful 
for other purposes and can be readily disposed of or carted 
away to fill in unimproved land. All waste food or garbage, 
if dried, can be burned. In all cities there are laws for the 
disposal of waste material and garbage, which you should 
know and obey. 

The public sewer takes care of the waste water and human 
excreta. If there is not a sanitary disposal of this waste, 
dangerous bacteria develop and reach the body, sometimes 
through flies, mosquitoes, and other pests. Pools of waste 
water are breeding places for mosquitoes. Outside closets, 
if near the source of drinking water, filter through the soil 
and pollute the water. 

The water system of drainage consists of sinks, closets, 
bathtubs, etc., which receive the sewage. These empty into 
a waste pipe, which in turn empties into the soil pipe con- 
nected with the main sewer in the street. Each of these 

190 



HOUSEHOLD SANITATION 191 

receptacles is trapped before it enters into another pipe. 
The trap consists of a bend in the pipe. This bend is to 
contain the last water which goes down. It is called the 
water seal, for it prevents sewer air from coming up through 
the pipe. Find the trap in the sink pipe in your school 
kitchen and in the bathroom at home. The soil pipe is 
trapped before it enters the main sewer in the street. 

This system of drainage requires constant care to keep it 
in a sanitary condition. Substances like heavy paper, string, 
hair, grease, matches, fruit skins, and dust should never be 
emptied into any of the drains. They lodge in the trap, 
stick to the sides of the pipes, and cause a great deal of 
trouble in the disposal of soluble waste matter. The trap in 
every sink should be flushed with a solution of hot water and 
washing soda at least once a week, and all traps should be 
occasionally opened and cleaned. Your teacher will show 
you how to do this with the trap in the sink in the school 
kitchen. The bathroom toilet needs a thorough washing 
each day, and once in a while a bleaching with chloride of 
Hme. 

Disinfectants. — We cannot keep the house absolutely clean 
with soap and water only. Bacteria need stronger substances 
to kill them. The best-known and most frequently used dis- 
infectants are carbolic acid and solutions with a foundation 
of chloride of lime. A five per cent solution of carbohc acid 
used in generous quantities is always satisfactory. Carbolic 
acid is a poison; the solution should be kept in a special 
place and carefully labeled. The antidote for it is alcohol. 
Dry chloride of lime is used to absorb bad odors and is very 
effective in disinfecting moist material. When using disin- 
fectants, you must remember that, in order to destroy all 
bacteria, the disinfectant must come in contact with the sub- 
stance to be disinfected and must remain there some time. 



CARE OF BEDROOMS 

Order of Work. — A girl's bedroom should be her chief 
pride and she should enjoy the care of it. 

Each morning when you get up, turn the bed covers back 
over the foot of the bed. This will soon get to be a habit. 
At least once a week all the covers should be removed and 
allowed to hang out in the sunshine. Before leaving the 
room in the morning, take a survey of it. Hang your night- 
dress out where it will air, put away any clothes that are 
hanging on the chairs. Open the closet doors, draw up the 
shades, and open the windows. 

After breakfast, before you start for school, return to the 
room and put it in order. 

First, wash the toilet articles on the washstand with cold 
water. Dry them on a cloth used especially for this pur- 
pose, and not on a soiled towel. Empty all the water into 
the waste pail. Fill the pitchers with fresh water. Replace 
all the articles where they belong. 

Second, make the bed. Remove all the clothing and turn 
the mattress over from end to end, from side to side. Put 
on the mattress pad, which should consist of a piece of 
quilted cotton cloth large enough to cover the middle of the 
bed. Next put on the under sheet, right side up, with the 
crease in the middle of the bed. Tuck this in at the head, 
foot, and sides. Over this put the upper sheet, right side 
down, tucking it in at the foot at least twelve inches. Put 
on the blankets with the fold at the foot of the bed, so that 
one of them may be turned back if you should be too warm. 
Your teacher will show you how to miter the corners when 

192 



CARE OF BEDROOMS 193 

tucking in the bedclothes so that the bed will stay together 
and look neat and shipshape. Fold the upper sheet down 
over the blankets about nine inches. The spread is put over 
the whole bed. It should hang over the sides and foot far 
enough to hide the mattress and springs. The pillows must 
be smooth and flattened and placed at the head of the bed. 

The bed linen is changed at least once a week, either both 
sheets or simply the lower one. The upper sheet may be 
used the next week for the lower sheet, putting it this time 
right side down also, so that the cleaner side will be up next 
to the body. 

Third, brush up and dust any part of the room that needs 
it. Straighten the toilet articles on the bureau. Partly 
close the windows and draw down the shades to the middle 
of the window frame. Once a week the room must be given 
a thorough cleaning. Cover up the bed, bureau, and wash- 
stand with old sheets prepared for this purpose. Take out 
the rugs and sweep the room thoroughly. When the dust 
has settled, remove it with a damp duster and straighten 
the room. 

Necessity for Light and Air. — Many of us are afraid that 
sunshine will fade our carpets and furniture and that fresh 
air will make the house too cold in winter. But there is a 
great necessity for light and air in the house. Direct sun- 
shine kills most bacteria. Therefore our bedrooms should be 
filled mth sunshine in the daytime if possible, and with fresh 
air at night while we are asleep. This will make us ready 
for our next day's work after a long night of sleep. 



LAUNDERING 

Sorting and Preparing Clothes. — The clothes should be 
taken from the soiled clothes basket or hamper and sorted 
into four piles. Put table Hnen and slightly soiled towels in 
one pile; body linen, bed Hnen, handkerchiefs, and soiled 
towels in a second pile ; colored clothing in a third pile, and 
flannels and stockings in a fourth pile. As you sort the 
clothes, look them over, mend any rents and remove any 
stains (see page 16). 

Prepare the water in which the clothes are to be soaked, 
by adding sufficient soap solution to make a suds. If two 
tubs are used, put the contents of the first pile into one tub, 
and the contents of the second pile into the other. Colored 
clothes and flannels should not be soaked. Rub the most 
soiled parts of the garments with soap, fold these parts in 
and put the garments into the tubs, covering the entire mass 
of clothes with warm soapy water. Then cover the tubs and 
let the clothes soak overnight. 

In the morning, rub the clothes on the washboard, or, if 
they are soaking in the washing machine, work the machine 
until all the dirt is loosened. Rinse the clothing thoroughly 
in at least two waters, examining all soiled parts, to be sure 
they are clean. 

Treatment of Water. — Water is the great solvent of dirt. 
Water that is used in the laundry should be clean and soft. 
It should be free from odor or any trace of iron. Most of 
the water supplied to us by the public water supply is hard, 
due to the lime salts it gets from the earth. Rain water is 
soft. Water can be made soft by boiling it and by adding 
alkalies and soap. The cheapest and best alkalies are wash- 

194 



LAUNDERING 195 

ing soda, lye, borax, and ammonia. Alkalies, unless used 
very carefully, make holes in the clothes. Your teacher will 
show you how to make the proper solution of alkali to soften 
the water you: have to use in your locality. 

Soap is made of fat and lye. It is considered the best 
cleaning agent. Strong soap has alkalies in excess. It should 
be used when the clothes are very dirty and on cotton and 
linen. Mild soap contains a small amount of alkali and 
should be used on fine materials, colored clothes, and flan- 
nels. Soap loosens the dirt and emulsifies the grease in the 
clothes. These are both finally removed by the process of 
washing and rinsing. 

Bluing. — Unless clothes are thoroughly rinsed, they be- 
come yellow. Bluing is used to whiten them and is necessary 
even when clothes are carefully washed and rinsed, if a pure 
white is desired. Bluing is sold in small packages with 
directions for use printed on the wrapper. Dissolve a little 
in a bowl of hot water. Add enough of this to a tub of luke- 
warm water to give the desired blue. Clothes should be 
properly rinsed or the bluing will not have the desired effect. 
Some bluings contain iron, which will turn the clothes yellow 
if they have not been rinsed perfectly clean. 

Starching. — Starch penetrates the fabric and becomes part 
of the cloth, giving it a hard, smooth surface when ironed. 
Starched clothes keep clean longer and are warmer. Borax 
and oily substances added to starch increase the gloss, and 
prevent the starch from sticking to the iron. 

THICK STAECH THIN STARCH 

J c. starch J c. starch 

i c. cold water i c. cold water 

1 pt. boiling water 2 qt. boihng water 

1 ts. borax 1 ts. borax 

i ts. lard i ts. lard 



196 SECOND YEAR 

Mix the cold water and starch together, add the boihng 
water gradually, stirring the starch constantly. Add the 
borax and lard, cook the starch slowly twenty minutes. 
Thick starch may be made and diluted to the desired thin- 
ness. 

RAW STARCH 

J c. starch 
i c. cold water 
1 pt. warm water 

Stir the mixture until it is smooth. Garments that are to 
be very stiff, hke shirts, collars, and cuffs should be starched 
in the thick starch. Petticoats and dresses should be starched 
in thin starch. If the underwear and table linen are to be 
starched at all, they should also be starched in the thin 
starch after the petticoats and dresses. Clothes hke shirt 
bosoms, collars, and cuffs will absorb more raw starch and 
are consequently stiffer. Rub the starch well into the clothes 
and dry them in the sunshine and fresh air. Clothes dried 
in this way are sweet and clean smelling. 

Dampening. — After the clothes are dry, they should be 
taken in from the line and dampened. This should be done 
several hours before they are to be ironed, except in very 
warm weather. Mildew, a form of mold, will grow on the 
clothes at this time if they are folded for many hours before 
they are ironed. Sprinkle the clothes evenly, but do not 
wet them too much. Roll them tightly together so that the 
dampness will penetrate, pack them closely in the clothes 
basket, and cover them with a clean cloth. 

Ironing. — The ironing board should be covered with a 
smooth, clean blanket for padding, and an outside cover of 
cotton cloth tacked tightly over the blanket. The irons 
must be heavy and smooth. First, iron the parts of the 
garment which muss least, and the parts which dry the 



LAUNDERING 197 

quickest. Fold the ironed clothes neatly and compactly and 
hang them on the clothes bars until they are thoroughly dry. 
Woven undergarments, either cotton or woolen, and stock- 
ings do not need ironing. Sheets and bath toAvels, if dried 
in the fresh air and folded carefully when taken from the 
line, may be used without ironing. 



HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS 

Whatever the income of the family may be, large or 
small, the careful spending of it is most important. As a 
rule the man is the producer and the woman the spender. 
Only careful training and experience can make us capable 
of spending money wisely. One must decide on a standard 
of living and keep close to that, discriminating between neces- 
sities and luxuries. Satisfy the needs first. A wise shopper 
knows she has only a certain sum to spend and never spends 
more. She has planned, when she goes to the store, what she 
wants, and she insists upon having it. She knows what 
foods supply the greatest energy for the money. She knows 
what materials and colors wear best, the quantity needed, 
and the most reliable stores in her neighborhood. 

In the last few years many investigations have been made, 
and statistics published, on the typical division of the in- 
come. One good method is as follows : — 

Rent — Food — Operating expenses, which include fuel, 
light, repairs, and help — Clothing — Advancement, which 
includes insurance, recreation, charity, church, savings, and 
sundries. 

Ideal Division of the Income for Family of Four 



Income 


Rent 


Food 


Operating 

Expenses 


Clothes 


Advance- 
ment 


$ 750.00 
1000.00 
2000.00 


$112.50 
200.00 
400.00 


$300.00 
300.00 
500.00 


$ 90.00 
100.00 
300.00 


$112.50 
150.00 
400.00 


$ 135.00 
250.00 
400.00 



198 



HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTS 



199 



Thus we see if the income is $750 we can spend 15 per cent 
of the income for rent ; 40 per cent for food ; 12 per cent for 
Ught, fuel, and repairs ; 15 per cent for clothes ; and 18 per 
cent for insurance, recreation, and savings. 

If the income is $1000 we can spend 20 per cent of the 
income for rent; 30 per cent for food; 10 per cent for 
light, fuel, and repairs; 15 per cent for clothes; and 25 
per cent for insurance, recreation, and saving. 

If the income is $2000 we can spend 25 per cent for 
food; 20 per cent for rent; 15 per cent for light, fuel, 
repairs, and help ; 20 per cent for clothes ; and 20 per cent 
for insurance, recreation, church, savings, charity. 

When the division of the income has been settled upon, 
careful accounts should be kept so that we may know that 
we are living within the stated amounts. There are two 
sides in accounts — the Credit on the right side, where we 
put all the money we have received. The Debit, on the 
left side, where we make a record of all the money spent. At 
the end of each week the account should be balanced. If we 
have some money left over at the end of the week, it is put on 
the Debit side under the heading of Balance, so that both 
sides will add up to the same Total. If, on the other hand, 
our debit side adds up the larger, the balance must go on 
the credit side and we are in debt. 

Food Account 



OCTOBEB 19 — 


Dr 




October 19 — 


Cr 




1 


Vegetables 60 Butter 40 


1 


00 


1 Cash on hand 


10 


00 


2 


'Meat 75 Cereal 15 




90 








3 


Eggs 40 Groceries 1.00 


1 


40 








4 


Meat 30 Butter 40 




70 








5 


Groceries 1.25 Vegetables 25 


1 


50 








6 


Meat 60 Vegetables 50 


1 


10 








6 


Milk for week 63 




63 










Balance on hand 


2 


77 












10 


00 




To 


00 



200 



SECOND YEAR 



Have a page in your account book for each division of the 
income and a summary at the end of the book of the amounts 
spent for each division. 

Monthly Summary 





Rent 


Food 


Operat- 
ing 
Expenses 


Clothing 


Advance- 
ment 


Total 


Oct. 1-7 . . 
Oct. 7-14 . . 
Oct. 14-21 . 
Oct. 21-28 . 


$8 


00 


S7 


23 


$6 


00 


S7 


00 


$7 


00 


$35 


23 


Total for 
Month . 



























HOUSE FURNISHING 

By Helen E. Cleaves 
Assistant in Manual Arts, Public Schools, Boston, Mass, 

Home should be a place where we can be comfortable and 
happy. The house and all that helps to furnish it should be 
planned with this idea in mind. Unless a thing contributes 
to our comfort, or our happiness, or both, it is worthless, and 
we cannot afford to give it space, even in the attic or cellar. 

It is our business to be thoughtful about our surroundings ; 
not unpleasantly critical, hurting people's feelings for the 
sake of things, but we should form intelligent opinions about 
the objects in our homes. Far from being indifferent, we 
must either like or dislike everything and know definitely 
the reasons for our feeling. 

Good taste comes as the result of repeatedly choosing be- 
tween good and bad ; changing things in order to make them 
better, paying attention to the things themselves, not to styles 
and prices. 

In judging an article, first ask the common-sense question, 
'' What is it for? " Unless its use is a new one the object 
should speak for itself. A box should look like a box and not 
like a book or a pumpkin. We should not choose dishes 
disguised as vegetables, or electric lights wearing the out- 
grown form of candles, or gas heaters parading in the shape 
of burning logs of wood. Clever and grotesque things may 
give us much amusement, but they should not be combined 
with useful articles at the expense of their usefulness. 

Neither should one material be made to look like another. 

201 



202 SECOND YEAR 

Why paint a wooden clock frame to look like marble? Let 
wood, metal, glass, each do its own work, and it will satisfy 
us with the charm of its own qualities. 

Next is the important question, '' Does this article do its 
work well, does it fulfill its promises? " A sewing machine 
should stitch well, a clock should keep good time, a chair 
should not only look like a chair, but should be strong enough 
to support whoever cares to sit in it. Its shape and proportion 
should be just right to hold a human being in comfortable 
sitting posture. Every part should be made with this idea 
in mind, for if it fails here, nothing can give it any real value 
as a chair. It may be costly or fashionable, it may be old 
enough to have historic interest, it may be a wedding gift, 
but if it is not good to sit in, it is a poor chair. The work which 
a thing has to do must never be second to any other purpose. 

There is one more important consideration. We enjoy 
beauty wherever we find it and cannot afford to miss the 
pleasure it gives us. Hence the clock, the chair, and the 
sewing machine should each have every element of beauty 
possible to it. 

Now there are different ways in which a thing may be 
beautiful. There is dignity and strength in the straight, 
vertical lines of support in doors and windows, and quiet 
restfulness in the long horizontal lines of wainscoting and 
moldings. 

Curtains in doors and windows should fit inside the frames 
and hang straight down to the sill as in the illustration. If 
tied back, they form a tent shape quite out of harmony with 
the oblong space they are supposed to cover. In a doorway 
the curtains should of course reach to the floor, but window 
curtains have no excuse for hanging below the sill, where 
their work of softening the fight ceases. 

Oblique fines full of the excitement which belongs to action 
should be avoided in the placing of large things like rugs, 



HOUSE FURNISHING 



203 



pianos, and bookcases. Chairs and small articles must 
needs be moved about to suit our convenience, but the pictures 
need not hang at angles with the wall by slanting cords or be 
arranged in oblique lines to keep the eye climbing needless 
stairs or sUding down fantastic terraces. Things that are 
supposed to be at rest 
should harmonize with 
the quiet Unes of the 
house itself. 

Much could be said 
about beauty of curves 
and refinement of pro- 
portion. The circle is 
a perfect embodiment 
of the three essentials 
of good design, — 
harmony, balance, and 
rhythm. It appears 
at its best horizon- 
tally, as in mats, 
dishes, or designs for 
floors or ceilings. 
Long sweeping curves 
of strength, hke the 
stems of goldenrod, 
are best for upright supports or decorations. On a vertical 
surface an oblong is more pleasing than a square. It is ob- 
vious that a door must be high enough for any one to walk 
through, but beyond this a few inches more or less may 
make it beautiful as well as useful. Given a choice, the 
most graceful proportions should be carefully sought. 

Only a few general hints can be given in regard to color. 
Dark colors suggest weight and are better to walk on than 
pink and pale blue, hence the lower part of a room should 




204 SECOND YEAR 

be darker than the upper walls and ceiling. If the wood 
work has any natural beauty of grain or color, it may be kept 
as the kejmote in the color scheme of the room. White paint 
with dark paper makes the woodwork prominent, and if it is 
fine in structure and proportion, gives a desirable emphasis to 
the architecture of the room. Wall papers and floor cover- 
ings should be quiet backgrounds for people, pictures, and 
furnishings. Startling patterns and gay colors are out of 
place. 

The warm colors, red, orange, and yellow, are naturally 
brilliant, but when lowered to the rich browns of wood, or 
softened with white, they are delightful for living rooms, 
where an appearance of warmth and comfort is desired. 
Green is very successful for a general scheme, being cool like 
foliage but not cold, as it contains some yellow. Unless a 
room is flooded with sunlight, blue generally seems cold and 
depressing. Red should be used with care, for few people 
have complexions that can compete with even a rich violet 
red background, and of course scarlet is out of the question. 

This merely suggests the main problems to be considered 
by one who could furnish a home. Each room should be a 
unit, with every line, shape, tone, and color taking its place 
in an orderly scheme. The living room should present an 
appearance of warmth and inviting quiet. Sleeping rooms 
should be light and cool with the simplest of furnishing. 
The kitchen should be light and convenient with as good an 
equipment as a workman would demand in a modern shop. 
Every part of the house should be usable, affording comfort 
and pleasure according to its purpose. 

Such a place may be called a home. It is not the result of a 
hurried purchase of a load of furniture, but comes only with 
years of planning and thoughtful experience. It is worth a 
lifetime of loving study, for the results may be not only a 
work of art but a liberal education. 



BOX OR SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 

In preparing a luncheon for a school child, three main 
points should be kept in mind, the luncheon should be made 
up of nutritious and easily digested foods ; second, — more 
hearty luncheons should be prepared for a strong, robust child 
than for a quiet, delicate child ; third, — the luncheon should 
be made as attractive as possible by wrapping each article 
by itself in paraffin paper and packing it carefully. 

Desirable Foods. — Hard-cooked eggs, sandwiches of many 
kinds, crackers, cookies, nuts, home-made candy, sweet 
chocolate, figs, dates, fruit, are all both desirable and appe- 
tizing contributions to a school luncheon box. 

Essentials. — Those who prepare box luncheons should 
have on hand the following : light-weight box, paraffin paper, 
tiny salt box, paper napkin, sanitary drinking cup, small 
spoon. 

Picnic Luncheons. — Picnic lunches may be prepared 
according to above directions, using a box large enough for 
carrying a generous supply of food. Foods with strong 
odors (such as salmon and sardine sandwiches, also bananas) 
which permeate the lunch box should not be packed with 
other foods. 

SUGGESTIVE LIST OF INEXPENSIVE BOX LUNCHES 

(1) (2) 

Peanut butter sandwiches $.02 Egg salad sandwiches . $.06 

Jelly sandwiches ... .02 Cake (nut frosting) . .03 

Olives 02 Banana .02 

Orange ^03 $.11 

$.09 
205 



206 



SECOND YEAR 



(3) 

2 meat sandwiches 

(chopped ham) . . . $.05 

2 olives 01 

1 small cup cake ... .01 

1 cup cocoa .02 

$.09 
(5) 

Whole wheat bread and 

butter sandwiches . . $.02 
Orange marmalade . . .01^ 

Ginger snaps 01 

Banana .02 

$.06i 
(7) 

2 slices graham bread and 
butter $.02 

1 hard-cooked egg . . .03 

2 cookies 01 

1 orange .03 

$.09 
(9) 

2 slices bread and butter 
sandwiches .... $.02 

1 small jar of nut salad 
(without lettuce, apple, 

celery) 04 

1 gingerbread gem . . .01 
Few pieces of fudge . . .01 

$.08 
(11) 

Bread and butter sand- 
wiches $.02 

Celery 02 

Orange 03 

Chocolate sponge cak^ , .02 

$.09 



(4) 

2 orange marmalade 

sandwiches . . . $.03 
1 glass milk 02 

1 apple 02 

6 stuffed dates . . . .01 

$.08 
(6) 

Cheese and nut sand- 
wiches $.03 

Maple sirup sandwiches .03 

Peanut Cookies . . . .02 

Apple _M 

$.09 
(8) 

2 cheese and nut sand- 
wiches $.04 

1 cup custard 03 

4 sweet crackers ... .01 

1 banana .02 

$.10 
(10) 

Raisin bread and butter 

sandwiches .... $.03 

English walnuts . . .01 

Cup of baked custard . .04 

Vanilla cookies . . . .01 

$.09 



(12) 

Chopped-egg sand- 
wiches $.05 

An orange 03 

Vanilla cookies . . . .02 
$.10 



BOX OR SCHOOL LUNCHEONS 



207 



(13) 

Graham bread and butter 

sandwiches $.02 

Hard-cooked egg . . . .03 

An apple 01 

Gingerbread . . . . . .01 

S.07 
(15) 

Bread and butter sand- 
wiches $.02 

A baked apple 02 

Gingerbread .01 

$.05 

(17) 

Bread and butter sand- 
wiches $.02 

Stewed prunes 02 

Cup custard . . . . . .04 

Educator toasterettes . .01 

$.09 



(14) 

Peanut-butter sand- 
wiches $.03 

Mold of blancmange . .02 

Sponge cake 02 

Dates ^02 

$.09 
(16) 

Cottage-cheese sand- 
wiches $.04 

Sponge cake 02 

An apple 01 

English walnuts . . . .02 
$.09 



BOX LUNCHEONS 
$.05 

1 bread and butter sandwich 

2 cookies 
1 orange 

$.10 

1 cheese sandwich 
1 cup custard 
1 banana 



1 square of sweet chocolate 



MENUS 

Deciding what to have for meals is tHe feature of house- 
keeping which is somewhat commonly thought to be the most 
monotonous. In case decision proves to be a difficult task, 
it is well to reduce the matter to a system which may be so 
arranged as to work successfully and economically. 

The first essential of a good working system is famiharity 
with what the markets afford and with the prices of the va- 
rious foods in them. Such knowledge can be gained by visits 
to markets, resulting in either clear memory of what available 
foods cost or in a simple check list alphabetically arranged 
with the prices of commodities at varied times. 

The second essential is knowledge of the tastes of the indi- 
viduals to be served. 

The third is to make a strong effort to avoid hesitation. 
When a housekeeper allows various possibilities as to what 
she may have for dinner to chase back and forth for hours in 
her mind, she is wasting nervous energy so fast that she must 
in a short time become the natural victim of her bad habit. 
Under such circumstances deciding what to have becomes 
wearing as well as monotonous. 

The first secret of an appetizing bill of fare is well-cooked 
food. Every viand should be as near perfect in taste as the 
housekeeper can secure by using raw materials of proper 
quality, and by following her recipe exactly as to amount of 
each ingredient, and as to the order and way in which it 
should be added to the other articles used in the recipe. It 
should be assumed that a good cook book never inserts a 
superfluous statement in a recipe. 

The second secret of a good meal is serving at it foods which 
go well together. Many housekeepers provided well-balanced 

208 



MENUS 209 

dietaries long before any one had analyzed the food they 
served. If a guiding instinct on this matter is not possessed 
by a young housekeeper, she can cultivate it to some extent 
by studying proverbial combinations, such as pork and apple 
sauce ; chicken or turkey and cranberry sauce ; macaroni 
and cheese ; etc. If she wants to secure intelligence which 
will really guide her, she will examine all menus coming within 
easy reach ; among these suggestions made in the newspaper 
are often helpful. From this examination she will notice 
that a successful menu does not combine many foods of the 
same kind. For instance, potatoes, rice, and bread make a 
less appetizing accompaniment for pot roast than do potatoes, 
spinach, and bread. A successful menu maker avoids having 
dishes sufficiently similar to clog. She goes on the principle 
that appetite is encouraged by placing different kinds of 
food before those about to dine. She realizes that it pays the 
restaurant management to furnish horseradish with oysters, 
and sauces of various kinds with meats. Succession or alter- 
nation of foods of different tastes stimulate not only desire 
to take more food, but also activity of digestion. 

It will be interesting and useful for girls in school kitchens 
to compose menus with a view to learning how various attrac- 
tive meals can be served at very low cost. Examples of the 
results of such studies by elementary school girls are given in 
the series of breakfast menus which follow. 

BREAKFAST MENUS PREPARED AND COOKED BY 
PUPILS IN THE BOSTON SCHOOLS 

BREAKFAST MENUS 

Breakfast No. 1, $.55 

Baked apples Rolled oats 

Omelet Baking-powder biscuit 

Cocoa 



210 SECOND YEAR 



Materials and Approximate Cost {six people) 

Apples $.07 

Oats 03 

Eggs 20 

Butter 10 

Flour 03 

Milk 10 

Cocoa _^ 

Total $.55 



Breakfast No. 2, $.62 

Sliced oranges Rolled oats 

Hamburg steak Baked potatoes 

Baking-powder biscuits Coffee 

Materials and Approximate Cost {six people) 

Oranges $.05 

Steak 20 

Potatoes 08 

Cream 08 

Milk 04 

Butter 10 

Coffee . .05 

Rolled oats .05 

Total $.65 



Breakfast for Four People at $.55 or Less 
(1) (2) 

Cereal $.10 1 lb. grapes $.05 

Pork chops 20 Cereal 10 

Baking-powder biscuits and French-fried potatoes . .05 

butter 10 Tea or cocoa .... .10 

Tea or coffee and sugar . .10 Poached eggs .... .15 

Bread 05 



MENUS 



211 



(3) 



(4) 



Grapes 

Oatmeal 05 

Griddlecakes ..... .20 Bacon .... 

Sirup 05 Coffee and sugar ... .05 

Coffee 10 Bread 05 

Bread 05 



$.05 Oatmeal $.05 

20 

10 



(5) 

Cocoa $.10 

Bacon . . . . . ." . .15 

4 eggs 15 

Corneake 10 

Butter 05 



(6) 



Bananas and cream . 


. $.10 


Bread and butter 


. .10 


Brown bread . . . 


. .08 


Baked beans . . . 


. .20 



(7) 

Oranges $.05 

Cereals ....... .05 

Lamb chops 20 

Fried potatoes 05 

Rolls 05 



Tea, cocoa, or coffee 



(8) 



Bananas 

Dropped eggs on fishballs 
(eggs, .10 ; potatoes, 
.05, and fish, .15) . , 

Bread 



$.05 



.10 Tea, coffee, or cocoa . 



.30 
.05 
.10 



(9) 

Cereal . $.10 

Hamburg 20 

Corneake 10 

Coffee 10 

Butter 05 



LUNCHEON MENUS 
(1) 



Tomato soup 
Tapioca cream 



Baking-powder bread sticks 
Individual cakes 



Coffee 



212 



SECOND YEAR 



Materials and Approximate Cost {six people) 



Tomatoes $.12 

Butter 20 

Tapioca 03 

Eggs 15 

Coffee 08 

Cream ....... .15 



Flour $.08 

Sugar 09 

Onions 01 

Baking powder ... .02 

Milk .18 

Total $1.11 



(2) 



Roast chicken 
Rolls 



Sponge cake 



Duchess potato 
Snow pudding 



Materials and Approximate Cost (Jour people) 



Chicken $.80 

Potatoes 05 

Bread 05 

Gelatin 06 

Sugar 12 



Pork . .^ $ .05 

Milk 18 

Eggs 20 

Baking powder ... .01 

Flour .06 

Total $1.58 



(3) 

Cream cheese on toasted crackers 
Jelly sandwiches 

Frosted cakes 



Cocoa (whipped cream) 
Peaches with cream 



Materials and Approximate Cost {four people) 



Cheese $.15 

Milk 18 

Crackers 05 

Cocoa 05 

Cream 13 

Peaches 15 



Bread $.05 

Butter 15 

Sugar 05 

Flour 03 

Jelly 05 

Baking powder . . . .01 
Total $1.05 



MENUS 213 

(4) 
Chicken salad Baking-powder biscuit 

Pineapple sherbet Chocolate cake 

Cocoa (whipped cream) 

Materials and Approximate Cost (six people) 

Fowl $1.05 Butter $.20 

Celery 20 Eggs 20 

Lettuce 08 Cocoa . 05 

Oil 20 Cream 15 

Pineapple 22 Ice 05 

Lemons 05 Salt 03 

Sugar 20 Milk 12 

Gelatin 01 Salt, mustard, pepper . .01 

Total ....... $2.82 

(5) 

Tomato bisque Biscuits 

Crackers Snow pudding 

Steak Custard sauce 

Cream potatoes Sponge cake 

Peas Tea 

Materials and Approximate Cost (six people) 

Steak $.55 

Potatoes 05 

Tomatoes 15 

Crackers . 05 

Lemons 13 

Peas 18 

Milk .18 

Butter 28 

Eggs .19 

Total $1.76 

(6) 

Tomato soup Cream of tartar biscuits 

Macaroni Banana jelly 

Fishballs Jumbles 

Peas Cocoa 



214 SECOND YEAR 



Materials and Approximate Cost {six people) 

Tomatoes $.10 

Peas 24 

Butter 26 

Gelatin 07 

Potatoes .05 

Cocoa .03 

Lemons .05 

Lard 04 

Milk 08 

Fish . , 10 

Bananas .05 

Eggs 08 

Onions • . . . . .01 

Total $1.16 



Luncheon 


FOR 


Six — $1.01 

($.18 each) 


Cream of carrot soup 




Chocolate bread pudding 


Potato croquettes 




Bread sticks 


Peas 




Grape jelly 


Cabbage salad 




Rolls 


Hard sauce 




(8) 




Luncheon for Eight — $1.35 






($.18 each) 


Potato soup 




Croutons 


Meat pie 




Celery and nut salad 


Rolls 




Piccalilli 


Cottage pudding 




Lemon sauce 



(9) 

Luncheon for Five — $.60 

($.12 each) 
Creamed salt fish Coffee jelly and cream 

Baked potatoes Cake 



MENUS 215 

(10) 
Luncheon for Six — $1.50 

($.25 each) 
Tomato soup Bread sticks 

Scalloped fish and potato Salad rolls 

Celery, apples, and orange Plain cake 

salad Russian tea 

(11) 
Luncheon for Ten — $3.50 

Grapefruit Cheese, nut, and olive salad 

with 

Macedoine of fruits Salad rolls 

Chicken timbales, mushroom Coffee mousse 

sauce Cake 

(12) 
Luncheon for Six 
Creamed salmon Mashed potatoes 

Baking-powder biscuits Biscuits 

Tapioca cream Cocoa 

Cost of Creamed Salmon 

1 can salmon @ $.22 per can $.22 

2 tbs. butter @ .38 per lb 021 

1 pt. milk @ .08 per qt .04 



Cost of Mashed Potatoes 

1 qt. potatoes ..... @ $.96 per bu $.03 

3 tbs. butter @ .40 per lb .03| 

1 c. milk ....... @ .08 per qt .01 

Total ...... $.071 

Cost of Baking-powder Biscuit 

3 c. flour @ $.04 per lb $.03 

6 ts. baking-powder . . . @ .42 per lb 03 

2 tbs. lard @ .18 per lb Oil 

li c. milk @ .08 per qt 02 

i lb. butter @ .40 per lb .05 

Total $.141 



216 SECOND YEAR 

Cost of Tapioca Cream 

2h tbs. minute tapioca . . ((? $.10 per pkg $.01| 

3 e. milk @ .OS per qt 06 

2 eg^ (0". .32 per doz 06 

^ c. sugar @ .06 per lb 01^ 

1| ts. vanilla @ .25 per bottle .... .02 

Total S.16^ 

Cost of Cocoa 

2 e. milk @ .OS per qt S.04 

i e. sugar @ .06 per lb 00| 

3 tbs. eoeoa @ .20 per can .02 

Total $.06 1 

Total Cost of Luncheon Xo. 12 

Cream.ed salmon $.2S^ 

Mashed potatoes 07 f 

Baking-powder biscuits 14f 

Tapioca cream 16| 

Cocoa .061 

Total cost $.74i 

Afternoon Teas 

The se^^'ing of afternoon tea is a gro-^-ing and an agreeable 
custom, and is much practiced in almost all parts of our 
country. This courtesy is observed ^sith one's friends who 
drop in for an afternoon call, and more formal teas are given 
when few or many friends are invited to meet some guest who 
is visiting in the home. 

Teas, cakes, fancy crackers, at times small sandwiches, 
are served at an informal affair, but at a formal tea, where 
many are invited, ices and salads are more often served to the 
guests. 

In planning for a tea of any sort select simple refreshments, 
since good taste dictates simplicity rather than elaborate 
outlay. Dainty service means far more than an elaborate 



ME^xs 217 

display of food, for it suggests care and devotion on the part 
of the hostess and thereby shows her desire to entertain her 
guests. 

Recipes for tea, cakes, and sandwiches appropriate for 
afternoon teas may be found by consulting the index of this 
book. Fancy crackers may be purchased at the grocers. 



CAMP COOKERY 

Cooking Apparatus. — To the enthusiastic camper a camp 
fire may be found satisfactory for cooking one or two meals. 
But for several days' camping out an oil stove is a marked 
addition to comforts in camp life, and a decided relief from 
the constant care and from the exercise of the practiced skill 
required to keep a good camp fire. 

So it may be said that a very important article in a camping 
outfit is a good stove. There are now many excellent oil 
stoves with portable ovens. For outings they seem to give 
greater satisfaction than any other kind of stoves, as they 
are fight themselves and operate with a fuel which is cheap, 
readily obtained, and easily carried. 

A fireless cooker is also an aid and convenience to the 
camper. Food can be prepared and left in the cooker while 
the party are away from camp on tramps. When they return, 
tired and hungry, the meal can be prepared with very little 
labor in a short time. 

Utensils. — Granite-ware utensils are the most desirable 
sort for camp use. They are light, durable, and easily 
cleaned. Tea and coffee pots with lips are more easily 
cleaned and more easily packed than those that have the 
long spouts. 

A large kettle of granite ware is almost indispensable and 
serves many purposes. It can be used for carrying and 
heating water, for dish washing, for boiling meats, and for 
chowders, etc. When moving, it can be made a packing case 
for small articles. 

Dishes. — In general, mugs and plates of white enameled 

218 



CAMP COOKERY 219 

ware, on account of their light weight and durability, are to 
be preferred to the ordinary breakable articles of crockery. 

Provisions. — The list of provisions to be taken into a 
camp is influenced by the locality sought and by the people 
of the party. If the camp is remote from a village, it is evi- 
dent that a greater number and variety of provisions must 
be laid in than when a grocery store is within an hour's 
tramp of the tents. If the party is made up of men, there 
may be less call for such delicacies as olives, preserves, and 
pickles than there would be if ladies were in the company. 
But whatever the composition of the party, there are cer- 
tain staples which with a little thought may be prepared 
in several different ways, thus allowing an acceptable and 
varied bill of fare. 

List of Materials for Campers 



Bacon 


Figs 


Baking powder 


Flour 


Beans 


Ginger 


Butter 


Ham 


Canned fruits 


Mustard 


Canned vegetables 


Pepper 


Cereals 


Rice 


Cheese 


Rye meal 


Cocoa 


Salt 


Coffee 


Salt fish 


Corn meal 


Sausages 


Dates 


Soap 


Dried beans 


Soda 


Eggs 


Sugar 



Tea 

When buying the above articles, it is well to include the 
purchase of paraffin candles, kerosene, extra wicks for the 
oil stove, paper napkins, and paper towels. 



220 



SECOND YEAR 



Recipes. — By referring to recipes given in previous pages 
campers will find that the foods given in the list below can be 
made easily available, even under the simple conditions 
allowed in camp life. 



Recipes 

Cereals 51 

Clam chowder 163 

Fish chowder 142 

Fish, Baked 139 

Fried 140 

Sauted 141 

Hasty pudding .... 54 

Macaroni 48 



Recipes 

Meats, Boiled ... 112, 113 

Stewed 102, 103 

Broiled .... 104, 105, 106 
Sauted .... 107, 108, 109 

Milk toast 26 

Quick bread 169 

Salads 248-263 

Vegetables 17-31 



THE HOME MAKER'S DUTY TO HERSELF 

The duties of the average housekeeper who does her own 
work are so many and so varied that it is often hard for her 
to know just where to begin. She is frequently busy from 
early in the morning until late at night, taking care of chil- 
dren, preparing meals, cleaning, scouring, and many times 
she adds washing and ironing to her other labors. Such a 
woman finds hardly a moment's leisure during the day, and 
if, after the evening meal is finished, dishes washed, and 
children put to bed, she has a minute to sit down, she must 
take up a piece of mending or sewing. Is it any wonder that 
such women, weary, tired, and overworked, break down ? 

A woman in this position often wastes much nervous energy 
by fretting over unaccomplished work. She grows nervous 
and irritable in the useless effort to get things done which are 
quite beyond her strength. Then, too, when the night comes 
on, the other members of the family do not always return from 
the day's work with a cheery and helpful spirit, but bring home 
with them the perplexities of the workaday world outside. 
But the mother or home maker is expected to be unfailingly 
pleasant, cheerful, and patient, and to smooth out all difficul- 
ties, no matter how worn or tired she may be. 

Now this home maker should not forget that she has a duty 
to herself. She should learn to plan to save strength and 
energy by having cooking utensils near the cooking table, and 
the table near the sink and stove; by sitting down when 
preparing vegetables and other food, and, in pleasant, mild 
weather, by doing such work on the back porch, in the fresh 

221 



222 SECOND YEAR 

air ; and if she could learn to take a few minutes' rest during 
each day, by lying or sitting down, if for but five minutes, 
completely relaxing, or, in other words, '' letting go " muscle, 
brain, and nerve, she would find that she would be refreshed 
and strengthened for her work. 

There are to-day many labor and strength saving devices 
for the busy home maker, such as electric or hand power wash- 
ing machines, fireless cookers, vacuum cleaners, bread mixers, 
food choppers, etc. They are investments, not expensive 
luxuries, and an effort should be made by prudent planning 
to get the money together with which to buy them, as they so 
greatly save the strength of the housekeeper. There are so 
many of these things on the market that only a few can be 
mentioned in this book. 

Labor-saving Devices 

A fireless cooker, or hay box, may be easily made at very 
little expense. 

Frame. — One can buy a box at any grocery store for a 
few cents, or an old ice box or old trunk will serve. In 
selecting a box, choose one made of heavy boards so hinges 
and a hasp may be put on firmly and well. The box must be 
considerably longer than the kettle which it is to contain. 

Kettle. — The kettle is the next thing to be considered. A 
large six or eight quart kettle, the shape of a common tin 
pail, and having a tightly fitting cover, is best. A small 
agate pail holding one quart may be bought in case one may 
sometimes wish to prepare two things at once, such as stew 
and a steamed pudding, in which case the small pail will 
hold the pudding. 

Packing. — The packing material, known as '' insulating 
packing," may be of straw, soft hay, wool, excelsior, news- 
paper, sawdust, or ground cork, etc. Wool is probably the 



THE HOME MAKER'S DUTY TO HERSELF 223 

best heat retainer, and may be bought at woolen mills or 
elsewhere for about 38 cents per pound. Being very light, 
much goes to the pound. If one cannot get wool, cheap 
cotton batting, or hair such as is used by plasterers, may serve. 

Method of Packing the Box. — To exclude air and avoid 
danger of catching fire, line the box and cover with several 
layers of newspaper or asbestos, putting it on smoothly. Put 
on the bottom of box four or five inches of the insulating 
packing selected for this purpose, covering top layer with a 
sheet of asbestos. Make a cardboard case by sewing to- 
gether three or four thicknesses of cardboard or, better still, 
sheets of asbestos, to fit closely around the kettle or pail. 

Put this case on the packing in the middle of box and pack 
solidly around it until level with the top of case.. Make a 
pad or cushion the exact size of box, when completed, and 
fill this well with wool or cotton batting. Have it thick 
enough to come three inches above the top of box, so that the 
cover, in closing, will crush it down. If, after awhile, the pack- 
ing material shrinks so that the spaces are not firmly filled, 
a little more packing may be added. 

After food is put into pail, cover tightly, pack all cracks 
around and on top of pail with newspaper, put on cushion, 
and fasten cover down tightly. 

Suggestions for Successful Use. — A large, rather than 
small quantity, of food is best for a fireless cooker, since a 
large quantity retains the heat longer. There should be 
food enough to nearly fill the pail, as a small quantity in a 
large utensil cools quickly. 

All foods should be boiled 10 to 15 m. before they are put 
into the cooker, and foods in solid form, such as large pieces of 
meat, hams, etc., should be cooked until thoroughly heated 
through, before they are placed in the cooker. 

Allowance for Cooking. — Much depends on kind of cooker, 
— (1) whether solidly or poorly packed, (2) what kinds of 



224 SECOND YEAR 

packing are used, (3) amount of food to be cooked, (4) skill 
in getting food quickly into cooker, etc. 

Suitable Foods for Cooking. — Cereals, stews, soups, beef, 
lamb, mutton, ham, poultry, fish, steamed breads, and pud- 
dings, etc. 

When using a fireless cooker, it is well to have on hand some 
standard cook book which denotes time required for cook- 
ing various dishes in a fireless cooker. 

Vacuum Cleaners. — The electric power vacuum cleaners 
which are available for houses having electricity reduce the 
work of the housekeeper very greatly. By drawing up the 
dust and collecting rather than scattering it, the vacuum pro- 
cess tends to insure the purity of the air in a house, and 
thereby greatly improves its sanitary condition. 

A hand power vacuum cleaner is not expensive. It is of 
course very much more tiring to those who operate it than is 
the electric vacuum machine. But it does not cost so much, 
and it has some marked advantages over the broom and 
dust cloth cleaning ordinarily applied to rooms. 

Bread Mixer. — Every housekeeper having a large family 
to provide for should regard a bread mixer as an essential 
utensil in her kitchen. It is a great time and strength saver, 
and it is a thorough worker. 

The heavily tinned pails which are the bodies of the mixers 
range in dough capacity from two to six loaves. Clamps 
fasten these pails to a table. Each mixer has a curved metal 
rod, the kneader, carried through a flat cross piece to the rotat- 
ing handle. A few turns of this handle will knead the dough 
thoroughly. Thus the hard task of thoroughly kneading 
dough for six loaves may be accomplished at the cost of little 
time and little strength. 

After kneading, the dough may rise in the pail of the mixer. 

Food Choppers. — Food choppers may be so arranged as 
to cause the food placed in them to be cut coarse or fine or 



THE HOME MAKER'S DUTY TO HERSELF 225 

to be pulverized. Such a machine is especially useful in pre- 
paring hamburg steaks, meat or vegetable hash, minced 
meat, chopped pickle, etc. This is again a time and strength 
saver and a boon to the housekeeper of heavy tasks. It is 
so easily cleaned, adjusted, and operated, that once used it 
will seem indispensable. 



SCHOOL GARDENS 

The movement in regard to the establishment of school 
gardens is fast becoming a widespread one. A strong argu- 
ment in favor of it can be advanced in its importance in corre- 
lation with the work in Domestic Science. 

The aim of the whole course in Domestic Science is to be of 
definite, practical, and immediate use to the girl who in after 
years is to be the home maker. In order to meet these every- 
day requirements and to acquire an intelligent idea of what 
she is doing, the girl should be taught about the material she 
is using. In what other way can she gain greater intelli- 
gence about some of the material she uses than by having a 
garden in which she can plant her own vegetables, care for 
them, study their growth, and finally have the supreme satis- 
faction of actually cooking her own products ? 

In school gardens children may raise vegetables which 
could be provided for the school in no other way. For fre- 
quently the cost of new vegetables makes their use impossible, 
owing to the limited amount of money available. 

The fact that a school garden has been a success will incline 
the girl to plant a home garden which may, in the crowded 
tenement districts, be nothing more than a small window box, 
owing to the limited amount of space. This is a step in the 
right direction and should be encouraged. It is not really 
difficult to raise for the family table vegetables which other- 
wise would be far beyond the family purse. 

There are but a few school kitchens in which a window 
box cannot be successfully managed. Parsley and chives 
can be grown with little trouble. If the boys in the wood- 

226 



SCHOOL GARDENS 227 

working classes are encouraged to cooperate in these lines, cold 
frames may be made, and by their aid lettuce, radishes, 
tomatoes, and other vegetables at practically no cost and 
little trouble can be raised. 

Aside from the actual economic side of the question, the 
lively interest of the girls will be aroused and result in 
effects worth the trouble the extra effort may cost the teacher. 
Moreover, the moral gain coming from faithful attendance 
on a garden should not be overlooked. 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Angel Cake, Recipe No. 198. 

Apple, Scalloped, and Bread Pudding, 

Recipe No. 40. 
Apple and Celery Salad, Recipe No. 

256. 
Apple Cake, Dutch, Recipe No. 194. 
Apple Dumpling, Baked, Recipe No. 

195. 
Apple Pie, Recipe No. 242. 
Apple Pudding, Steamed, Recipe No. 

224. 
Apple Sauce : 

No. I, Recipe No. 9. 
No. II, Recipe No. 10. 
Baked, Recipe No. 11. 
Apple Tapioca or Sago, Recipe No. 46. 
Apple Water, Recipe No. 272. 
Apples, Baked, Recipe No. 8. 
Apricot Sauce, Recipe No. 229. 

B 

Bacon (see Liver and Bacon). 

Baked Apple Dumpling, Recipe No. 

195 
Baked Apples, Recipe No. 8. 
Baked Apple Sauce, Recipe No. 11. 
Baked Bananas, Recipe No. 14. 
Baked Beans, Boston, Recipe No. 23. 
Baked Bean Soup, Recipe No. 73. 
Baked Crackers, Recipe No. 37. 
Baked Crackers and Cheese, Recipe 

No. 77. 
Baked Custard, Recipe No. 95. 
Baked Fish, Recipe No. 139. 
Baked Macaroni with Cheese, Recipe 

No. 49. 
Baked Potatoes, Recipe No. 17. 
Baked Rhubarb Sauce, Recipe No. 13. 
Paked Rice Pudding, Recipe No. 57. 
Baked Spaghetti and Tomato, Recipe 

No. 50. 



Baking Powder, Recipe for, Recipe 

No. 176. 
Baking Powder Biscuit, Recipe No. 

192. 
Bananas, Baked, Recipe No. 14. 
Barley Gruel, Recipe No. 277. 
Barley Sugar, Recipe No. 331. 
Batter, Fritter, Recipe No. 182. 
Beans, Boston Baked, Recipe No. 23. 
Bean Soup, Recipe No. 73. 
Beef: 

Beef Stew, Recipe No. 102. 

Beef Tea, Recipe No. 101. 

Braised Beef, Recipe No. 110. 

Broiled Meat Cakes, Recipe Noo 
105. 

Broiled Steak, Recipe No. 104. 

Browned Hash, Recipe No. 125. 

Brown Sugar Candy, Recipe No. 
342. 

Corned Beef, Recipe No. 114. 

Cottage Pie, Recipe No. 126. 

Dried Beef with White Sauce, 
Recipe No. 128. 

Hamburg Steak, Recipe No. 105. 

Meat Loaf, Recipe No. 111. 

Roast Beef (see Roasting, General 
Index). 

Roast Beef Gravy, Recipe No. 116. 

Sandwiches, Raw Beef, Recipe No. 
284. 

Soup Stock, Recipe No. 98. 
Beets, Boiled, Recipe No. 27. 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, Recipe No. 

192. 
Bisque, Tomato, Recipe No. 71. 
Blancmange : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 42, 

Corn Starch, Recipe No. 41. 

Fruit Corn Starch, Recipe No. 43. 

Irish Moss, Recipe No. 44. 
Blueberries (Canned), Recipe No. 307. 



228 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



229 



Blueberry MuflSns, Recipe No. 186. 
Blueberry Pudding, Recipe No. 222. 
Boiled Beets, Recipe No. 27. 
Boiled Carrots, Recipe No. 29. 
Boiled Coffee, Recipe No. 3. 
Boiled Dinner, Recipe No. 114. 
Boiled Dressing, Salad, Recipe No. 250. 
Boiled Fish, Recipe No. 137. 
Boiled Fresh Meat, Recipe No. 112. 
Boiled Frosting, Recipe No. 214. 
Boiled Macaroni, Recipe No. 48. 
Boiled Onions, Recipe No. 31. 
Boiled Parsnips, Recipe No. 30. 
Boiled Potatoes, Recipe No. 19. 
Boiled Rice, Recipe No. 58. 
Boiled Salted or Smoked Meats, Recipe 

No. 113. 
Boiled Turnips, Recipe No. 28. 
Boston Baked Beans, Recipe No. 23. 
Boston Brown Bread, Recipe No. 219. 
Boston Brown Bread Sandwiches, 

Recipe No. 281. 
Braids (Bread) , Recipe No. 173. 
Braised Beef, Recipe No. 110. 
Bread, p. 109. 
Bread (Yeast) : 

Quick Process, Recipe No. 169. 

Slow Process, Recipe No. 168. 
Bread, Whole Wheat, Recipe No. 170. 
Bread and Butter Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 280. 
Bread Crumbs : 

Dried, Recipe No. 32. 

Buttered, Recipe No. 33. 
Bread Crumb Griddle Cakes, Recipe 

No. 181. 
Bread Pudding and Scalloped Apple, 

Recipe No. 40. 
Bread Pudding : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 39. 

Plain, Recipe No. 38. 
Bread Sticks, Recipe No. 175. 
Breakfast Cocoa, Recipe No. 6. 
Broiled Fish, Recipe No. 138. 
Broiled Meat Cakes (see Hamburg 

Steak). 
Broiled Steak, Recipe No. 104. 
Broth : 

Mutton, Recipe No. 100. 

Scotch, Recipe No. 99. 



Brown Bread, Boston, Recipe No. 219. 
Browned Hash, Recipe No. 125. 
Brown Sauce for Meats, Recipe No. 

120. 
Brown Sugar Candy (see Pinoche). 
Butter, Recipe No. 75. 
Butter Balls, Recipe No. 76. 
Butter Cakes, p. 132. 
Butter Taffy, Recipe No. 330. 
Buttered Bread Crumbs, Recipe No. 

33. 
Buttered Cracker Crumbs, Recipe No, 

59. 



Cabbage Salad, Recipe No. 255. 
Cake: 

Angel, Recipe No. 198. 

Cheap Sponge, Recipe No. 196. 

Cocoa, Recipe No. 202. 

Dutch Apple, Recipe No. 194. 

Gold, Recipe No. 204. 

Layer, Recipe No. 205. 

One Egg, Recipe No. 201. 

Plain, Recipe No. 199. 

Short, Recipe No. 193. 

Silver, Recipe No. 203. 

Sponge, Recipe No. 197. 

without Eggs, Recipe No. 200. 
Cakes : 

Cream, Recipe No. 183. 

Meat, Broiled, Recipe No. 105. 
Candy : 

Barley Sugar, Recipe No. 331. 

Caramels, Opera, Recipe No. 340. 

Dates, Creamed, Recipe No. 339. 

Fondant, Chocolate, Recipe No. 333. 

Fondant, Coffee, Recipe No. 334. 

Fondant, Maple, Recipe No. 335. 

Fondant, Plain, Recipe No. 332. 

Fudge, Chocolate, Recipe No. 341. 

Mints, Cream, Recipe No. 336. 

Molasses, Recipe No. 328. 

Nut Bar, Maple, Recipe No. 337. 

Peanut Brittle, Recipe No. 327. 

Pinoche or Brown Sugar Candy, 
Recipe No. 342. 

Taffy, Butter, Recipe No. 330. 

Vinegar, Recipe No. 329. 

Walnuts, Creamed, Recipe No. 338. 



230 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Caper Sauce, Recipe No. 117. 

Caramel Frosting, Recipe No. 217. 
Caramel Junket, Recipe No. 66. 
Caramels, Opera, Recipe No. 340. 
Carrots, Boiled, Recipe No. 29. 
Celery and Apple Salad, Recipe No. 

256. 
Celery, Cream of. Soup, Recipe No. 70. 
Cereal Gems, Recipe No. 189. 
Cereals (see also Gruels) : 

Mush, Corn Meal, Recipe No. 54. 

Mush, Corn Meal, Fried, Recipe 
No. 55. 

Mush, Oatmeal, Recipe No. 53. 

Oats, Rolled, Recipe No. 51. 

Rice (see Rice). 

Wheat, Cream of, Recipe No. 52. 
Cheap Sponge Cake, Recipe No. 196. 
Cheese and Nut Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 289. 
Cheese and Olive Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 290. 
Cheese : 

Baked Crackers and, Recipe No. 77. 

Creamed, Recipe No. 79. 
Cheese Fondue, Recipe No. 80. 
Cheese Sandwiches, Recipes No. 288, 

289, 290. 
Cheese Straws, Recipe No. 81. 
Chicken : 

Roast, Recipe No. 122. 

Stuffing for. Recipe No. 123. 
Chicken Fricassee, Recipe No. 124. 
Chicken Salad, Recipe No. 263. 
Chicken Sandwiches, Recipe No. 285. 
Chili Sauce, Recipe No. 319. 
Chocolate Blancmange, Recipe No. 

42. 
Chocolate Bread Pudding, Recipe No. 

39. 
Chocolate Cookies, Recipe No. 239. 
Chocolate Cream, Recipe No. 136. 
Chocolate Cream Filling, Recipe No. 

210. 
Chocolate Fondant, Recipe No. 333. 
Chocolate Frosting, Recipe No. 215. 
Chocolate Fudge, Recipe No. 341. 
Chocolate Ice Cream, Recipe No. 303. 
Chocolate Pudding, Steamed, Recipe 
No. 221. 



Chocolate Sauce, Recipe No. 234. 
Chopped Ham Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 283. 
Chops : 

Pan-broiled, Recipe No. 106. 

Pork, Sauted, Recipe No. 107. 
Chow Chow, Recipe No. 318. 
Chowder : 

Clam, Recipe No. 163. 

Fish, Recipe No. 142. 

Lobster, Recipe No. 165. 
Clam Chowder, Recipe No. 163. 
Clams, Steamed, Recipe No. 162. 
Cocoa : 

Breakfast, Recipe No 6. 

Reception, Recipe No. 7. 
Cocoa Cake, Recipe No. 202. 
Coconut Filling, Recipe No. 211. 
Cod Fish, Creamed, Recipe No. 151. 
Cod, Saute'd, Recipe No. 141. 
Coffee : 

Boiled, Recipe No. 3. 

Filtered, Recipe No. 4. 

Iced, Recipe No. 5. 
Coffee Fondant, Recipe No. 334. 
Coffee Jelly, Recipe No. 134. 
Cookies : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 239. 

Molasses, Recipe No. 236. 

Nut, Recipe No. 238. 

Oatmeal, Recipe No. 240. 

Sugar, Recipe No. 237. 
Corn Cake, Recipe No. 187. 
Corn Meal Griddle Cakes, Recipe No. 

180. 
Corn Meal Muffins, Recipe No. 187. 
Corn Meal Mush, Recipe No. 54. 

Fried, Recipe No. 55. 
Corn Soup, Recipe No. 68. 
Corn Starch, Blancmange, Recipe No. 

41. 
Corned Beef (see Boiled Dinner). 
Cottage Pie, Recipe No. 126. 
Cottage Pudding, Recipe No. 206. 
Crab-apples (Canned), Recipe No. 313. 
Cracker Crumbs, Buttered, Recipe No. 

59. 
Crackers, Baked, Recipe No. 37. 

with Cheese, Recipe No. 77. 
Cranberry Jelly, Recipe No. 321. 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



231 



Cranberry Pie, Recipe No. 244. 
Cranberry Sauce, Recipe No. 15. 
Cream, Chocolate, Recipe No. 136. 

Tapioca, Recipe No. 47. 
Cream Cakes, Recipe No. 183. 
Cream Filling, Recipe No. 209. 
Cream Mints, Recipe No. 336. 
Cream of Celery Soup, Recipe No. 70. 
Cream of Green Pea Soup, Recipe No. 

69. 
Cream of Wheat, Recipe No. 52. 
Creamed Cheese, Recipe No. 79. 
Creamed Cod Fish, Recipe No. 151. 
Creamed Dates, Recipe No. 339. 
Creamed Fish, Recipe No. 150. 
Creamed Lobster, Recipe No. 164. 
Creamed Oysters, Recipe No. 161. 
Creamed Potatoes, Recipe No. 22. 
Creamed Walnuts, Recipe No. 338. 
Creamy Eggs, Recipe No. 92. 
Creamy Sauce, Recipe No. 228. 
Crescent Rolls, Recipe No. 172. 
Croquettes : 

Fish, Recipe No. 155. 

Lobster, Recipe No. 166. 

Meat, Recipe No. 131. 
Croutons, Recipe No. 34. 
Crumbs : 

Bread, Buttered, Recipe No. 38. 

Cracker, Buttered, Recipe No. 59. 
Currants (see Raspberries and Cur- 
rants). 
Custard : 

Baked, Recipe No. 95. 
Soft, Recipe No. 296. 
Steamed, Recipe No. 95. 
Custard Pie, Recipe No. 246. 
Cutlets, Veal, Recipe No. 108. 



Dates, Creamed, Recipe No. 339. 
Desserts (Frozen) : 
Ice Cream : 

Chocolate, Recipe No, 303. 

Fruit, Recipe No. 305. 

Junket with Peaches, Recipe 
No. 304. 

Plain, Recipe No. 300. 

Strawberry, Recipe No. 302. 

Vanilla, Recipe No. 301. 



Ices : 

Lemon, Recipe No. 298. 

Orange, Recipe No. 299. 
Sherbet : 

Milk, Recipe No. 296. 

Pineapple, Recipe No. 297. 
Desserts (Hot or Cold) : 

Baked Apples, Recipe No. 8. 
Baked Bananas, Recipe No. 14. 
Blancmange : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 42. 

Corn Starch, Recipe No. 41. 

Fruit Corn Starch, Recipe No. 43. 

Irish Moss, Recipe No. 44. 
Custards : 

Baked, Recipe No. 95. 

Soft, Recipe No. 96. 

Steamed, Recipe No. 95. 
Dutch Apple Cake, Recipe No. 194. 
Gelatin : 

Chocolate Cream, Recipe No. 136. 

Coffee Jelly, Recipe No. 134. 

Lemon Jelly, Recipe No. 132. 

Orange Jelly, Recipe No. 138. 

Snow Pudding, Recipe No. 185. 
Junket : 

Caramel, Recipe No. 66. 

Ice Cream, Recipe No. 304. 

Plain, Recipe No. 65. 
Pies : 

Apple, Recipe No. 242. 

Cranberry, Recipe No. 244. 

Custard, Recipe No. 246. 

Lemon with Two Crusts, Recipe 
No. 248. 

Rhubarb, Recipe No. 247. 

Squash, Recipe No. 245, 
Puddings (see also Pudding 
Sauces) : 

Baked Apple Dumpling, Recipe 
No. 195. 

Blueberry Pudding, Recipe No. 
222. 

Bread and Scalloped Apple, 
Recipe No. 40. 

Bread, Chocolate, Recipe No. 89. 

Bread, Plain, Recipe No. 88. 

Cottage, Recipe No. 206. 

Dutch Apple Cake, Recipe No. 
194, 



232 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Kice, Baked, Recipe No. 57. 
Rice, Boiled, Recipe No. 58. 
Rice, Steamed, Recipe No. 56. 
Snow Pudding, Recipe No. 135. 
Steamed Apple Pudding, Recipe 

No. 224. 
Steamed Chocolate Pudding, 

Recipe No. 221. 
Suet Pudding, Recipe No. 220. 
Tapioca, Apple, and Sago, 

Recipe No. 46. 
Tapioca, Cream, Recipe No. 47. 
Tapioca, Peach, Recipe No. 45. 
Whole Wheat, Recipe No. 223. 
Sauces (see also Canned Fruits) : 
Apple Sauce, No. I, Recipe No. 9. 
Apple Sauce, No. II, Recipe No. 

10. 
Apple Sauce, Baked, Recipe No. 

11. 
Cranberry Sauce, Recipe No. 15. 
Rhubarb, Baked, Recipe No. 13. 
Rhubarb, Steamed, Recipe No. 

12. 
Stewed Prunes, Recipe No. 16. 
Short Cake, Recipe No. 193. 
Doughnuts, Recipe No. 235. 
Drawn Butter Sauce (for Fish) , Rec- 
ipe No. 146, 
Dried Beef, with White Sauce, Recipe 

No. 128. 
Dried Bread Crumbs, Recipe No. 32. 
Drinks (Hot and Cold) : 

Apple Water, Recipe No. 272. 
Beef Tea, Recipe No. 101. 
Egg Nog, Recipe No. 83. 
Flaxseed Tea, Recipe No. 269. 
Grape Water, Recipe No. 270. 
Gruels : 

Barley, Recipe No. 277. 
Flour, Recipe No. 276. 
Indian Meal, Recipe No. 278. 
Oatmeal, Recipe No. 279. 
Koumiss, Recipe No. 273. 
Lemonade, Recipe No. 264. 
Lemonade, Effervescent, Recipe 

No. 265. 
Lemonade, Egg, Recipe No, 32. 
Lemonade, Irish Moss, Recipe No. 
268. 



Lemonade, Pineapple, Recipe No. 
266. 

Lemonade, Plain, Recipe No. 264. 

Lemon Whey, Recipe No. 274. 

Orangeade, Recipe No. 267. 

Pasteurized Milk, p. 63. 

Rhubarb Water, Recipe No. 271. 

Rice Water, Recipe No. 275. 
Dropped Eggs, Recipe No. 89. 
Dumpling, Baked Apple, Recipe No. 

195. 
Dumplings for Stew, Recipe No. 218. 
Dutch Apple Cake, Recipe No. 194. 

E 

Effervescent Lemonade, Recipe No. 

265. 
Eggs: 

Creamy Eggs, Recipe No. 92. 

Custard, Baked, Recipe No. 95. 

Custard, Soft, Recipe No. 96. 

Custard Pie, Recipe No. 246. 

Dropped or Poached Eggs, Recipe 
No. 89. 

Goldenrod Eggs, Recipe No. 94. 

Hard-cooked Eggs, Recipe No. 88. 

Lemonade, Egg, Recipe No. 82. 

Nog, Egg, Recipe No. 83. 

Omelet, Plain, Recipe No. 97. 

Salad, Egg, No. I, Recipe No. 261. 

Salad, Eg^g, No. II, Recipe No. 262. 

Sandwiches, Egg, Recipe No. 286. 

Sauce, Egg, for Fish, Recipe No. 
147. 

Scrambled Eggs, Recipe No. 90. 

Soft-cooked, No. I, Recipe No. 85. 

Soft-cooked, No. II, Recipe No. 86. 

Soft-cooked, No. Ill, Recipe No. 87. 

Steamed Eggs, Recipe No. 84. 

Stuffed Eggs, Recipe No. 93. 
Entire Wheat Bread, Recipe No. 170. 



Fig and Prune Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 293. 
Fig Sandwiches, Recipe No. 292. 
Fillings for Cake : 

Chocolate Cream, Recipe No. 210. 

Coconut, Recipe No. 211. 

Cream, Recipe No. 209. 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



233 



Lemon, Recipe No. 207. 
Orange, Recipe No. 208. 
Filtered Coffee, Recipe No. 4. 
Fish : 

Baked, Recipe No. 139. 
Boiled, Recipe No 137. 
Broiled, Recipe No. 138. 
Chowder, Clam, Recipe No. 163. 
Chowder, Fish, Recipe No. 142. *- 
Chowder, Lobster, Recipe No. 165. 
Clam Chowder, Recipe No. 163. 
Clams, Steamed, Recipe No. 162. 
Fish, Cod, Creamed, Recipe No. 

151. 
Fish, Creamed, Recipe No. 150. 
Fish, Fried, Recipe No. 140. 
Fish Balls, Recipe No. 156. 
Fish Chowder, Recipe No. 142. 
Fish Croquettes, Recipe No. 155. 
Fish Hash, Recipe No. 154. 
Lobster, Creamed, Recipe No. 164. 
Lobster Chowder, Recipe No. 165. 
Lobster Croquettes, Recipe No. 166. 
Lobster Salad, Recipe No. 258. 
Oysters, Creamed, Recipe No. 161. 
• Oysters, Fried, Recipe No. 160. 
Oysters, Pan-broiled, Recipe No. 

159. 
Oysters, Scalloped, Recipe No. 157. 
Oyster Stew, Recipe No. 158. 
Salad, Lobster, Recipe No. 258. 
Salad, Salmon, Recipe No. 259. 
Salad, Sardine, Recipe No. 260. 
Sandwiches, Sardines, Recipe No. 

287. 
Sauces for Fish : 

Drawn Butter, Recipe No. 146. 

Egg, Recipe No. 147, 

Tartar, No. I, Recipe No. 148. 

Tartar, No. II, Recipe No. 149. 
Sauted, Recipe No. 141. 
Scalloped, No. I, Recipe No. 152. 
Scalloped, No. II, Recipe No. 153. 
Stuffing for Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 

143. 
Stuffing for Fish, No. II, Recipe No. 

144. 
Stuffing for Fish, Oyster, Recipe 
No. 145. 
Flaxseed Tea, Recipe No. 269. 



Flour Gruel, Recipe No. 276. 
Foamy Sauce, No. I, Recipe No. 231. 
Foamy Sauce, No. II, Recipe No. 232. 
Fondant : 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 333. 

Coffee, Recipe No. 334. 

Maple, Recipe No. 335. 

Plain, Recipe No. 332. 
Fondue, Cheese, Recipe No. 80. 
French Dressing, Salad, Recipe No. 

248. 
Fresh Meat, Boiled, Recipe No. 112. 
Fricassee of Chicken, Recipe No. 124. 
Fried Corn Meal Mush, Recipe No. 

55. 
Fried Fish, Recipe No. 140. 
Fried Oysters, Recipe No. 160. 
Fritter Batter, Recipe No. 182. 
Frostings, Boiled, Recipe No. 214. 

Caramel, Recipe No. 217. 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 215. 

Lemon, Recipe No. 216. 

Plain, No. I, Recipe No. 212. 

Plain, No. II, Recipe No. 213. 
Fruit: 

Corn Starch Blancmange, Recipe 
No. 43. 

Dates, Creamed, Recipe No. 3J9. 

Drinks, p. 36. 

Ice Cream (see Frozen Desserts). 

Ices (see Frozen Desserts). 

Pies (see Pies) . 

Puddings (see Puddings). 

Sandwiches (see Sandwiches). 

Sauces (see Sauces). 
Fruit (Canned) : 

Blueberries, Recipe No. 307. 

Crab Apples, Recipe No. 313. 

Currants with Raspberries, Recipe 
No. 306. 

Peaches, Recipe No. 309. 

Peaches, Spioed, Recipe No. 315. 

Pears, Recipe No. 311. 

Pears, Sweet Pickled, Recipe No. 
314. 

Plums, Recipe No. 310. 

Quinces, Recipe No. 312. 

Raspberries with Currants, Recipe 
No. 306. 

Strawberries, Recipe No. 308. 



234 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Watermelon, Sweet Pickled, Recipe 
No. 316. 
Fudge, Chocolate, Recipe No. 341. 



Gelatin : 

Chocolate Cream, Recipe No. 136. 

Coffee Jelly, Recipe No. 134. 

Lemon Jelly, Recipe No. 132. 

Orange Jelly, Recipe No. 133. 

Snow Pudding, Recipe No. 135. 
Gems, Cereal, Recipe No. 189. 
Giblet Gravy, Recipe No. 119. 
Gingerbread : 

No. I, Recipe No. 190. 

No. II, Recipe No. 191. 
Gold Cake, Recipe No. 204. 
Goldenrod Eggs, Recipe No. 94. 
Graham Muffins, Recipe No. 188. 
Grapefruit and Orange Marmalade, 

Recipe No. 325. 
Grape Jelly, Recipe No. 323. 
Grape Water, Recipe No. 270. 
Gravy : 

Giblet, Recipe No. 119. 

Roast Beef, Recipe No. 116. 

Roast Meat, Recipe No. 115. 
Green Pea, Cream of. Soup, Recipe 

No. 69. 
Griddle Cakes : 

Bread Crumb, Recipe No. 181. 

Corn Meal, Recipe No. 180. 

Sour Milk, Recipe No. 179. 

Sweet Milk, Recipe No. 178. 
Gruel : 

Barley, Recipe No. 277. 

Flour, Recipe No. 276. 

Indian Meal, Recipe No. 278. 

Oatmeal, Recipe No. 279. 

H 

Haddock, Sauted, Recipe No. 141. 
Ham : 

Boiled, Recipe No. 113. 

Sliced, Recipe No. 282. 
Ham Sandwiches, Chopped, Recipe No. 

283, 
Hamburg Steak, Recipe No. 105. 
Hard-cooked Eggs, Recipe No. 88. 
Hard Sauce, Recipe No. 226. 



Hard Soap, Recipe No. 167. 
Hash (see Browned Hash). 
Hash, Fish, Recipe No. 154. 
Hasty Pudding (see Corn Meal Mush), 
Recipe No. 64. 



Ice: 

Lemon, Recipe No. 298. 

Orange, Recipe No. 299. 
Ice Cream: 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 303. 

Fruit, Recipe No. 305. 

Junket, with Peaches, Recipe No. 
304. 

Plain, Recipe No. 300. 

Strawberry, Recipe No. 802. 

Vanilla, Recipe No. 301. 
Iced Coffee, Recipe No. 5. 
Indian Meal Gruel, Recipe No. 278. 
Irish Moss Blancmange, Recipe No. 44. 
Irish Moss Lemonade, Recipe No. 268. 



Jelly: 

Coffee, Recipe No. 134. 

Cranberry, Recipe No. 321. 

Grape, Recipe No. 323. 

Lemon, Recipe No. 132. 

Orange, Recipe No. 133. 

Quince, Recipe No. 322. 
Jelly and Nut Sandwiches, Recipe No. 

295. 
Jelly Sandwiches, Recipe No. 294. 
Junket : 

Caramel, Recipe No. 66. 

Ice Cream, with Peaches, Recipe 
No. 304. 

Plain, Recipe No. 65. 

K 

Koumiss, Recipe No. 273. 



Lamb: 

Minced, on Toast, Recipe No. 129. 

Roast (see Roasting, General In- 
dex). 

Scalloped, Recipe No, 130. 
Lamb Stew, Recipe No. 103. 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



235 



Layer Cake, Recipe No. 205. 
Lemon Filling, Recipe No. 207. 
Lemon Frosting, Recipe No. 216. 
Lemon Ice, Recipe No. 298. 
Lemon Jelly, Recipe No. 132. 
Lemon Pie, Recipe No. 243. 
Lemon Sauce, Recipe No. 227. 
Lemon Whey, Recipe No. 274. 
Lemonade : 

Effervescent, Recipe No. 265. 

Egg, Recipe No. 82. 

Irish Moss, Recipe No. 268. 

Pineapple, Recipe No. 264. 
Lettuce Sandwiches, Recipe No. 291. 
Liver and Bacon, Recipe No. 109. 
Lobster, Creamed, Recipe No. 164. 
Lobster Chowder, Recipe No. 165. 
Lobster Croquettes, Recipe No. 166. 
Lobster Salad, Recipe No. 258. 

M 

Macaroni : 

Baked, with Cheese, Recipe No. 49. 

Boiled, Recipe No. 48. 
Maple Fondant, Recipe No. 335. 
Maple Nut Bar, Recipe No. 337. 
Marmalade : 

Orange, Recipe No. 324. 

Orange and Grapefruit, Recipe 
No. 325. 

Peach, Recipe No. 326. 
Mashed Potatoes, Recipe No. 21. 
Mayonnaise Dressing, Recipe No. 249. 
Meat: 

Bacon, Sauted with Liver, Recipe 
No. 109. 

Boiled Meats, Fresh, Recipe No. 112. 

Boiled Meats, Salt, Recipe No. 113. 

Braised Beef, Recipe No. 110. 

Broiled Meat Cakes or Hamburg 
Steak, Recipe No. 105. 

Broiled Steak, Recipe No. 104. 

Browned Hash, Recipe No. 125. 

Chicken, Roast, Recipe No. 122. 

Chicken Fricassee, Recipe No. 124. 

Chops, Pan-broiled, Recipe No. 106. 

Chops, Pork, Sauted, Recipe No. 
107. 

Corned Beef (Boiled Dinner), 
Recipe No. 114. 



Cottage Pie, Recipe No. 126. 

Croquettes, Recipe No. 131. 
Cutlets, Veal, Recipe No. 108. 
Dried Beef with White Sauce, 

Recipe No. 128. 
Gravies and Sauces for (see 

Sauces). 
Liver and Bacon, Recipe No. 109. 
Loaf, Recipe No. 111. 
Minced Lamb on Toast, Recipe No. 

129. 
Roast Meat warmed in Gravy, 

Recipe No. 127. 
Roast Meats (see Roasting, General 

Index) . 
Sauces for : 

Brown, Recipe No. 120. 

Caper, Recipe No. 117. 

Mint, Recipe No. 118. 

Tomato, Recipe No. 121. 

Scalloped Mutton or Lamb, Rec- 
ipe No. 130. 
Soups (see Broth). 
Stews, Recipes Nos. 102, 103. 
Stufifing for Chicken, Recipe No. 

123. 
Milk: 

Blancmange (see Blancmange). 
Butter, Recipe No. 75. 
Chowders (see Chowder). 
Gruel (see Gruel) . 
Ice Creams (see Frozen Desserts) . 
Junket (see Junket) . 
Koumiss, Recipe No. 273. 
Milk Bread, Recipe No. 169. 
Milk Toast, Recipe No. 36. 
Pasteurized Milk, p. 63. 
Sherbets, Recipes Nos. 296, 297. 
Soups (see Soups) . 
Whey, Lemon, Recipe No. 274. 
Minced Lamb on Toast, Recipe No. 129. 
Mint Sauce, Recipe No. 118. 
Mints (see Cream Mints) . 
Molasses Candy, Recipe No. 328. 
Molasses Cookies, Recipe No. 236. 
Muffins : 

Blueberry, Recipe No. l£." 
Corn Meal, Recipe No. 187. 
Graham, Recipe No. 188. 
Plain, Recipe No. 184. 



236 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Rye, Recipe No. 188. 

Tea, Recipe No. 185. 
Musli : 

Corn Meal, Recipe No. 54. 

Corn Meal, Fried, Recipe No. 55. 

Oatmeal, Recipe No. 53. 
Mutton : 

Broth, Recipe No. 100. 

Minced on Toast, Recipe No. 129. 

Roast Mutton (see Roasting, Gen- 
eral Index) . 

Scalloped Mutton, Recipe No. 130. 

Scotch Broth, Recipe No. 99. 

N 

Nut and Cheese Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 289. 
Nut and Jelly Sandwiches, Recipe No. 

294. 
Nut Bar, Maple, Recipe No. 337. 
Nut Cookies, Recipe No. 238. 



Oatmeal Cookies, Recipe No. 240. 
Oatmeal Gruel, Recipe No. 279. 
Oatmeal Mush, Recipe No. 53. 
Oats, Rolled, Recipe No. 51. 
Olive and Cheese Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 290. 
Omelet, Plain, Recipe No. 97. 
One Egg Cake, Recipe No. 201. 
Onions : 

Boiled, Recipe No. 31. 

Scalloped, Recipe No. 62. 
Opera Caramels, Recipe No. 340. 
Orange and Grapefruit Marmalade, 

Recipe No. 325. 
Orange Filling, Recipe No. 208. 
Orange Ice, Recipe No. 299. 
Orange Jelly, Recipe No. 133. 
Orange Marmalade, Recipe No. 324. 
Orangeade, Recipe No. 267. 
Oysters : 

Creamed, Recipe No. 161. 

Fried, Recipe No. 160. 

Pan-broiled, Recipe No. 159. 

Scalloped, Recipe No. 157. 
Oyster Stew, Recipe No. 158. 
Oyster Stuffing, for Fish, Recipe No. 
145. 



Pan-broiled Chops, Recipe No. 106. 
Pan-broiled Oysters, Recipe No. 159. 
Parker House Rolls, Recipe No. 171. 
Parsnips, Boiled, Recipe No. 30. 
Pasteurized Milk, p. 63. 
Pastry, Plain, Recipe No. 241. 
Pea Soup : 

Green, Cream of. Recipe No. 69. 

Split, Recipe No. 74. 
Peach Marmalade, Recipe No. 326. 
Peach Tapioca, Recipe No. 45. 
Peaches : 

Canned, Recipe No. 309. 

Spiced, Recipe No. 315. 

with Junket Ice Cream, Recipe 
No. 304. 
Peanut Brittle, Recipe No. 327. 
Pears : 

Canned, Recipe No. 311. 

Sweet Pickled, Recipe No. 314. 
Pickles : 

Chili Sauce, Recipe No. 319. 

Chow Chow, Recipe No. 318. 

Spiced Peaches, Recipe No. 315. 

Sweet Pickled Pears, Recipe No. 
314. 

Sweet Pickled Watermelon, Recipe 
No. 316. 

Tomato Catchup, Recipe No. 320. 

Tomatoes, Recipe No. 317. 
Pies : 

Apple, Recipe No. 242. 

Cottage, Recipe No. 126. 

Cranberry, Recipe No. 244. 

Custard, Recipe No. 246. 

Lemon with Two Crusts, Recipe 
No. 243. 

Rhubarb, Recipe No. 247. 

Squash, Recipe No. 245. 
Pineapple Lemonade, Recipe No. 266. 
Pineapple Sherbet, Recipe No. 297. 
Pinoche, Recipe No. 342. 
Plain Cake, Recipe No. 199. 
Plain Fondant, Recipe No. 332. ' 
Plain Frosting : 

No. I, Recipe No. 212. 

No. II, Recipe No. 913. 
Plain Ice Cream, Recipe No. 300. 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



237 



Plain Muffins, Recipe No. 184. 
Plain Omelet, Recipe No. 97. 
Plain Pastry, Recipe No. 241. 
Plain Sauce, Pudding, Recipe No. 225. 
Plain Toast, Recipe No. 35. 
Plums, Canned, Recipe No. 310. 
Poached Eggs, Recipe No. 39. 
Polish, Silver, p. 31. 
Pop-overs, Recipe No. 177. 
Pork chops Sauted, Recipe No. 107. 
Pot Roast (see Roasting, General In- 
dex). 
Potato Salad, Recipe No. 251. 
Potato Soup, Recipe No. 67. 
Potatoes : 

Baked, Recipe No. 17. 
. Boiled, Recipe No. 19. 

Creamed, Recipe No. 22. 

Mashed, Recipe No. 21. 

Riced, Recipe No. 20. 

Scalloped, No. I, Recipe No. 60. 

Scalloped, No. II, Recipe No. 61. 

Stuffed, Recipe No. 18. 
Poultry (see Chicken). 
Prune and Fig Sandwiches, Recipe 

No. 293. 
Prunes, Stewed, Recipe No. 16. 
Pudding Sauces: 

Apricot, Recipe No. 229. 

Chocolate, Recipe No. 234. 

Creamy, Recipe No. 228. 

Foamy, No. I, Recipe No. 231. 

Foamy, No. II, Recipe No. 232. 

Hard, Recipe No. 226. 

Lemon, Recipe No. 227. 

Plain, Recipe No. 225. 

Strawberry, Recipe No. 230. 

Yellow, Recipe No. 233. 
Puddings (see Desserts, Hot or Cold) . 



Quince Jelly, Recipe No. 322. 
Quinces, Canned, Recipe No. 312. 

R 

Rarebit, Welsh, Recipe No. 78. 
Raspberries and Currants, Canned, 

Recipe No. 306. 
Raw Beef Sandwiches, Recipe No. 284. 



Reception Cocoa, Recipe No. 7. 
Rhubarb Pie, Recipe No. 247. 
Rhubarb Sauce : 

Baked, Recipe No. 13. 

Steamed , Recipe No. 12. 
Rhubarb Water, Recipe No. 271. 
Roast Beef, p. 83. 
Roast Chicken, Recipe No. 122. 
Roast Meat Gravy, Recipe No. 115. 
Roast Meat warmed in Gravy, Recipe 

' No. 127. 
Roast Mutton, or Lamb, p. 83. 
Roast Pork, p. 83. 
Rolled Oats, Recipe No. 51. 
Rolls : 

Crescent, Recipe No. 172. 

Parker House, Recipe No. 171. 

Swedish, Recipe No. 174. 
Rice: 

Boiled, Recipe No. 58. 

Steamed, Recipe No. 56. 

with Tomatoes, Scalloped, Recipe 
No. 64. 
Rice Pudding, Baked, Recipe No. 57. 
Rice Water, Recipe No. 275. 
Riced Potatoes, Recipe No. 20. 
Russian Tea, Recipe No. 2. 
Rye Muffins, Recipe No. 188. 

S 

Sago, Apple (see Apple Tapioca). 
Salad : 

Apple and Celery, Recipe No. 256. 

Cabbage, Recipe No. 255. 

Chicken, Recipe No. 263. 

Egg, No. I, Recipe No. 261. 

Egg, No. II, Recipe No. 262. 

Fruit, Recipe No. 257. 

Lobster, Recipe No. 258. 

Potato, Recipe No. 251. 

Salmon, Recipe No. 259. 

Sardine, Recipe No. 260. 

Stuffed Tomato, Recipe No. 254. 

Tomato, Recipe No. 253. 

Vegetable, Recipe No. 252. 
Salad Dressing : 

Boiled, Recipe No. 250. 

French, Recipe No. 248. 

Mayonnaise, Recipe No. 249. 
Salmon Salad, Recipe No. 259. 



238 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Salted or Smoked Meats, Boiled, 

Recipe No. 113. 
Sandwiches : 

Boston Brown Bread, Recipe No. 
281. 

Bread and Butter, Recipe No. 280. 

Cheese, Recipe No. 288. 

Cheese and Nut, Recipe No. 289. 

Cheese and Olive, Recipe No. 290. 

Chicken, Recipe No. 285. 

Chopped Ham, Recipe No. 283. 

Egg, Recipe No. 286. 

Fig, Recipe No. 292. 

Fig and Prune, Recipe No. 293. 

Jelly, Recipe No. 294. 

Jelly and Nut, Recipe No. 295. 

Lettuce, Recipe No. 291. 

Prune and Fig, Recipe No. 293. 

Raw Beef, Recipe No. 284. 

Sardine, Recipe No. 287. 

Sliced Ham, Recipe No. 282. 
Sardine Salad, Recipe No. 260. 
Sardine Sandwiches, Recipe No. 

287. 
Sauces (see Desserts, Hot or 
Cold) : 

for Fish (see Fish) . 

for Meats (see Meat) . 

for Puddings (see Pudding 
Sauces) . 

for Vegetables (see White 
Sauce) . 
Sauted Cod or Haddock, Recipe No. 

141. 
Sauted Pork Chops, Recipe No. 107. 
Scalloped Dishes : 

Apple and Bread Pudding, Recipe 
No. 40. 

Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 152. 

Fish, No. II, Recipe No. 153. 

Lamb, Recipe No. 130. 

Mutton, Recipe No. 130. 

Onions, Recipe No. 62. 

Oysters, Recipe No. 157. 

Potatoes, No. I, Recipe No. 60. 

Potatoes, No. II, Recipe No. 61. 

Tomatoes, Recipe No. 63. 

Tomatoes with Rice, Recipe No. 64. 
Scotch Broth, Recipe No. 99. 
Scrambled Eggs, Recipes Nos. 90, 91. 



Sherbet : 

Milk, Recipe No. 296. 

Pineapple, Recipe No. 297. 
Short Cake, Recipe No. 193. 
Silver Cake, Recipe No. 203. 
Silver Polish, p. 31. 
Sirup for Fruit (Canned), p. 167. 
Sliced Ham Sandwiches, Recipe No. 

282. 
Snow Pudding, Recipe No. 135. 
Soap, Hard, Recipe No. 167. 
Soft-cooked Eggs : 

No. I, Recipe No. 85. 

No. II, Recipe No. 86. 

No. Ill, Recipe No. 87. 
Soft Custard, Recipe No. 96. 
Soups : 

Baked Bean, Recipe No. 73. 

Corn, Recipe No. 68. 

Cream of Celery, Recipe No. 70. 

Cream of Green Pea, Recipe No. 69. 

Meat (see Broth) . 

Milk and Vegetable, p. 64. 

Potato, Recipe No. 67. 

Split Pea, Recipe No. 74. 

Tomato, Recipe No. 72. 

Tomato Bisque, Recipe No. 71, 

Vegetable, Recipe No. 98. 
Soup Stock, Recipe No. 98. 
Sour Milk Griddle Cakes, Recipe No. 

179. 
Spaghetti, Baked, with Tomato, 

Recipe No. 50. 
Spiced Peaches, Recipe No. 315. 
Split Pea Soup, Recipe No. 74. 
Sponge Cake, Recipe Nos. 196, 197. 
Squash Pie, Recipe No- 245. 
Stale Bread : 

Bread Crumbs, Buttered, Recipe 
No. 33. 

Bread Crumbs, Dried, Recipe No. 
32. 

Croutons, Recipe No. 34. 

Stuffing for Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 
143. 

Stuffing for Fish, No. II, Recipe No. 
144. 

Stuffing for Poultry, Recipe No. 123, 

Toast, Milk, Recipe No. 36. 

Toast, Plain, Recipe No. 35 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



239 



Starch Dishes ; 

Blaucmange (see Blancmange) . 

Macaroni, Recipes Nos. 48, 49. 

Spaghetti, Recipe No. 50. 

Tapioca (see Desserts, Hot and 
Cold). 
Steak : 

Broiled, Recipe No. 104. 

Hamburg, Recipe No. 105. 
Steamed Chocolate Pudding, Recipe 

No. 221. 
Steamed Clams, Recipe No. 162. 
Steamed Custard, Recipe No. 95. 
Steamed Dumplings for Stew, Recipe 

No. 218. 
Steamed Eggs, Recipe No. 84. 
Steamed Rhubarb Sauce, Recipe No. 12. 
Steamed Rice, Recipe No. 56. 
Stew : 

Beef, Recipe No. 102. 

Lamb, Recipe No. 103. 

Oyster, Recipe No. 158. 
Stewed Prunes, Recipe No, 16. 
Sticks, Bread, Recipe No. 175. 
Stock, Soup, Recipe No. 98. 
Strawberries, Canned, Recipe No. 308. 
Strawberry Ice Cream, Recipe No. 302. 
Strawberry Sauce, Recipe No. 230. 
Stuffed Eggs, Recipe No. 93. 
Stuffed Potatoes, Recipe No. 18. 
Stuffed Tomato Salad, Recipe No. 254. 
Stuffing : 

for Chicken, Recipe No. 123. 

for Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 143. 

for Fish, No. II, Recipe No. 144. 

Oyster, for Fish, Recipe No. 145. 
Suet Pudding, Recipe No. 220. 
Sugar, Barley, Recipe No. 331. 
Sugar Cookies, Recipe No. 237. 
Swedish Rolls, Recipe No. 174. 
Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes, Recipe No. 

178. 
Sweet Pickled Pears, Recipe No. 314. 
Sweet Pickled Watermelon, Recipe 
No. 316. 



.Taffy, Butter, Recipe No. 330. 
Tapioca : 

Apple or Sago, Recipe No. 46. 



Peach, Recipe No. 45. 

Tapioca Cream, Recipe No. 47. 
Tartar Sauce : 

No. I, Recipe No. 148. . 

No. II, Recipe No. 149. 
Tea, Recipe No. 1. 

Beef, Recipe No. 101. 

Flaxseed, Recipe No. 269. 

Russian, Recipe No. 2. 
Tea Muffins, Recipe No. 185. 
Toast : 

Milk, Recipe No. 36. 

Plain, Recipe No. 35. 
Tomato and Spaghetti, Baked, Recipe 

No. 50. 
Tomato, Stuffed, Salad, Recipe No. 254. 
Tomato Bisque, Recipe No. 71. 
Tomato Catchup, Recipe No. 320. 
Tomato Salad, Recipe No. 2C3. 
Tomato Sauce, Recipe No. 121. 
Tomato Soup, Recipe No. 72. 
Tomatoes : 

Pickled, Recipe No. 317. 

Scalloped, Recipe No. 63. 

with Rice, Scalloped, Recipe No. 64. 
Turkey, Giblet Gravy for. Recipe No. 

119. ' 
Turnips, Boiled, Recipe No. 28. 



Vanilla Ice Cream, Recipe No. 301. 
Veal Cutlets, Recipe No. 108. 
Vegetable and Milk Soups, p. 60. 
Vegetable Salad, Recipe No. 252. 
Vegetable Sauces (see White Sauce) 
Vegetable Soup (see Soup Stock). 
Vegetables : 

Beans, Boston Baked, Recipe No. 
23. 

Beets, Boiled, Recipe No. 27. 

Carrots, Boiled, Recipe No. 29. 

Onions, Boiled, Recipe No. 31. 

Parsnips, Boiled, Recipe No. 30. 

Potatoes (see Potatoes). 
■ Sauces for (see Sauces). 

Tomatoes, Scalloped, Recipe No. 63. 

Tomatoes with Rice, Scalloped, 
Recipe No, 64. 

Turnips, Boiled, Recipe No. 28. 
Vinegar Candy, Recipe No. 329. 



240 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Walnuts, Creamed, Recipe No. 338. 
Warming over Fish: 

Creamed Fish, Recipe No. 150. 
Fish Croquettes, Recipe No. 155. 
Fish Hash, Recipe No. 154. 
Scalloped Fish, No. I, Recipe No. 

152. 
Scalloped Fish, No. II, Recipe No. 

153. 
Warming over Meats : 

Browned Hash, Recipe No. 125. 
Cottage Pie, Recipe No. 126. 
Dried Beef with White Sauce, 

Recipe No. 128. 
Meat Croquettes, Recipe No. 

131. 
Minced Lamb on Toast, Recipe No. 

12fl!. 
Roast Meat in Gravy, Recipe No. 

127. 



Scalloped Mutton or Lamb, Recipe 
No. 130. 
Water Bread, Recipe No. 168. 
Watermelon, Sweet Pickled, Recipe 

No. 316. 
Welsh Rarebit, Recipe No. 78. 
Wheat : 

Cream of, Recipe No. 52. 
Whole, Pudding, Recipe No. 223. 
Whey, Lemon, Recipe No. 274. 
White Sauce : 

No. I, Recipe No. 24. 
No. II, Recipe No. 25. 
No. Ill, Recipe No. 26. 
and Dried Beef, Recipe No. 128. 
Whole Wheat Bread, Recipe No. 170. 
Whole Wheat Pudding, Recipe No. 
223. 



Yeast Bread (see Bread) . 
Yellow Sauce, Recipe No. 233. 



GENERAL INDEX 



Abbreviations, table of, 33. 

Accounts, 198. 

Acid ingredient in baking powder, 

125. 
Acids for sandwiches, 159. 
Afternoon teas, 216. 
Aitch bone (beef) , 80. 
Alkaline ingredient in baking powder, 

125. 
Animal fats and oils, 112. 
Antidotes, 189. 
Antiseptic, 187. 
Arrowroot, 51. 
Ash pan, 20. 

B 
Back of rump, 80. 
Bacon, 79. 
Baking, definition of, 35. 

doughs and batters, time table for, 
131. 

of fish, 103. 
Baking powder, 124. 

use of, in pastry, 145. 
Baking powder mixtures (see Doughs 
and batters) . 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

time table for baking of, 131. 
Barrel of flour, weight of, 117. 
Batters, 123. 

baking of, time table for, 131. 

proportions of flour and liquid for, 
124. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Bedroom, care of, 192. 
Beef (see also Meat), 78. 

boiled, 80. 

braised (see Bo-aised Beef, Recipe 
No. 110). 



corned, 80. 

cuts of, 79. 

digestibility of, 78. 

manner of cooking various cuts of 
80. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 

roasts, 83. , 

steaks (see Steaks, also Broiling). 

stews, 86. 

warming over, 97. 
Beverages, 36. 
Blacking of ranges, 21. 
Bleeding, 187. 
Blue points (oysters) , 108. 
Bluing, 195. 
Boiled meats, 82. 
Boiling (see Meat, Cooking of). 

beef cuts for, 80. 

fresh meats, 82. 

lamb cuts for, 81. 
Boiling water, 36. 

effect of, on eggs, 72. 

effect of, on fish, 102. 

effect of, on meat, 82. 

effect of, on starch, 52. 
Bolting (see Wheat) . 
Boning of fish, 102. 
Borax, use of, 14. 
Box luncheons, 205. 
Brains (beef) , 80. 
Braising, beef cuts for, 80. 

lamb cuts for, 81. 
Bran, 116. 

Brasses, cleaning of, 32. 
Bread (see also Flour, Wheat^ Baking 
powder mixtures), 115. 

flour for, 115. 

food value of, 116. 

liquids for making of, 115. 

materials for making of, 115. 



241 



242 



INDEX 



Bread — continued. 

process of making, 119. 

stale bread, uses of, 4:9. 
Bread mixers, 224. 
Breakfast table, the, 25. 
Brine, 163. 
Brisket (beef), 80. 
Broiling, 83. 

beef cuts for, 80. 

of fish, 102. 
Brooms and brushes, 12. 
Brown sugar, 177. 
Brushes, 12. 
Building a fire, 20. 
Bulbs as vegetables, 44. 
Burners, lamp, 19. 
Burning, of dust, 13. 

of garbage, 32. 
Burns, 188. 
Butter, 67, 

butter balls (see Recipe No. 76). 

butter cakes, making of, 132. 

butter making, 68. 

test for distinguishing butter from 
oleomargarine, 68. 



Cabbage, cooking of, 48. 
C^ibinets, 10. 
Cake, 132. 

cream fillings for, 136. 

frostings for, 137. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Camp cookery, 218. 
Candies, 177. 
Cane sugar, 177. 
Canning, 167. 
Canning of fruit, 167. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Carbohydrates, 61. 
Carpeted floors and stairs, sweeping 

of, 13. 
Carrots (see Index to Recipes) . 
Casein, 68. 
Cereals, 55. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 

rice, 55. 
recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Cheese, 68. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 



Chicken, 95. 

Chimneys, lamp, cleaning of, 19. 

Chocolate and cocoa, 38. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Chocolate stains, to remove, 16. 
Chuck ribs (beef), 80. 
Clams, 108. 

cleaning of, 108. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Clarifying of fat, 113. 
Coal range, the, 20. 
Cocoa, 38. 

stains, to remove, 16. 
Coffee, 37. 

stains, to remove, 16. 
Cold storage of foods, 166. 
Color in house furnishing, 203. 
Combination of foods in menus, 162. 
Combustion, 17. 
Compressed yeast, 118. 
Condensed milk, 63. 
Confectioner's sugar, 177. 
Convalescent diet, 154. 
Cooker, fireless, 222. 
Cookies (see Index to Recipes). 
Corning, meat for, 80. 
Corn starch as a thickening agent, 52. 
Cream (see Butter, Cheese, Milk). 
Crumbs, bread, 49. 
Crusts for pies, 146. 
Cupful, to measure a, 33. 
Curd, 69. 

Cuts of meat, plates of, facing, 76, 77, 
84, 85. 92, 93. 



Dampers, 20. 

Desserts, frozen, 163. 

Dessert starches, 52. 

Diagram of breakfast table, 26. 

Diet, 153. 

Digestibility of beef, 78. 

Digestive processes, 183. 

Dinner table, 27. 

Dish cloths, care of, 31. 

Dishes for camp use, 218. 

Dish towels, care of, 31. 

Dish washing, 29. 

Disinfectants, 191. 

Doors, hangings for, 202. 



INDEX 



243 



Doughs, yeast, 119. 

Doughs and batters, 124, 139. 

method of steaming, 139. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 

steamed, 139. 
Dress for the kitchen, 9. 
Dressing for poultry, 96. 
Dressings, for fish, 105. 

for salads, 149. 
Dried fruits, preparation of, for cook- 
ing, 42. 
Drinks, recipes for, 36, 
Dry yeast, 118. 
Dust, 11. 

disposal of, after sweeping, 13. 
Dusting, 13. 
Duty of home maker to herself, 221. 

E 

Egging and crumbing for frying, 115. 
Eggs, 70. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Entire wheat flour, 117. 
Equipment, 10. 
Expenditure and food value, relation 

of, 162. 
Experiments with baking powder, 125, 

eggs, 72. 

meat, 81. 

starch, 51. 

yeast, 118. 
Extinguishing of oil lamps, 19. 



Face of rump (beef) , 80. 
Fats and oils, 112. 

clarifying of fat, 113. 

oleomargarine, 67. 
Fillings, for cake (see Index to 
Recipes) . 

for sandwiches, 158. 
Finger bowls, 28. 
Fire, the kitchen, 19. 
Fire box, 20. 
Fireless cooker, 222. . 
Fish, 101. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

sauces for, 106. 

shellfish, 108. 
Flank (beef), 80, 



Floors, 13. 
Flour, 116. 

as a thickening agent, 52. 
barrel of, weight of, 117. 
Food, 34, 61. 
Food choppers, 224. 
Food value : 
of bread, 115. 
of butter, 67. 
of candy, 177. 
of cheese, 68. 

of chocolate and cocoa, 39. 
of eggs, 71. 
of fats and oils, 112. 
of fish, 101. 
of fruit, 40. 
of gelatin, 99. 
of ice cream, 163. 
of meat, 78. 
of milk, 62. 
of oysters, 108. 
of pastry, 145. 
of salads, 148. 
of starch, 51. 
of sugar, 177. 
of vegetables, 42. 
of water, 35, 61. 
of water ices, 163. 
Foods, combination of proper, for 
menus, 162. 
for box luncheons, 205. 
preservation of, 166. 
storage of, in refrigerator, 15. 
suitable for camp cookery, 219. 
fireless cookery, 224. 
food chopper, 225. 
uses to body, 184. 
Fore quarter, beef, 80. 
lamb or mutton, 81. 
Fowl, to select, 95. 
Freezer, 163. 

Freezing ice cream, etc., 163. 
Frostings for cake (see Index to 

Recipes) . 
Frozen desserts (see Index to 

Recipes) . 
Fruit and sugar, for canning, propor- 
tions of, 173. 
for jellies, proportions of j 167. 
for marmalades, proportions of, 175. 



244 



INDEX 



Fruit pies, 146. 
Fruits, 40. 

canning of, 167. 

drinks made from (see Drinks, 
Index to Recipes). 

for canning, 166. 

for marmalades, 175. 

for pickling, 170. 

for pies, 146. 

for salads, 148. 

for sandwiches, 159. 

jelly making, 172. 
Frying, 82, 113. 
Fuel, 18, 19. 



Garbage, 32. 
Gardens, school, 226. 
Gas burners, 22. 
Gas ranges, 21. 
Gelatin, 99. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Germs, carriers of, 12. 

helpful, 69. 

in dust, 11. 
Glasses, table, filling of, 28. 
Glucose, 177. 
Good beef, marks of, 78. 
Graham flour, 117. 
Grain, 55, 115. 
Granulated sugar, 177. 
Grape sugar, 177. 
Gravies, 93. . 

Grease spots, removal of, 14. 
Green vegetables, cooking of, 44. 
Grilling (see Broiling), 83. 
Grinding and bolting, 116. 

H 

Hair, covering of, when cooking, 9. 

Ham, 79. 

Hamburg steak, 89. 

Hands, care of, when cooking, 9. 

Hard candies, 178. 

Hard water, 35. 

Hardwood floors and stairs, cleaning 

of, 12. 
Heart of beef, 80. 
He9,t as an agent to baking powder, 

125. 



Hind quarter, beef, 79. 
lamb or mutton, 81. 
Hind shin, beef, 80. 
Home maker, the, 221. 
Home making, 201. 

Home table, planning of meals for, 162. 
Honey, 177. 

Hot-water faucet, improper use of, 36. 
House furnishing, 201. 

I 

Ice cream (see also Ices, Sherbets, In- 
dex to Recipes), 163. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Ices, water (see also Sherbets, Index 
to Recipes) . 

freezing of, 163. 
Infection, 187. 
Intestinal juice, 183. 
Invalid cookery, 153. 

recipes for, 153-158. 
Irish moss (see Index to Recipes) ► 
Iron-rust stains, to remove, 16. 
Ironing, 196. 



Jars, filling of, 216. 

Jellies, 172 (see also Gelatin). 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 

use of gelatin in, 99. 
Jelly (see Jellies). 
Junket, 63. 



Keeping a fire overnight, 21. 
Kerosene lamps, 19. 
Kidneys (beef), 80. 
Kindling, 20. 
Kitchen, 9. 
Knives, care of, 30. 

placing of, 25. 

scouring of, 31. 



Labor-saving devices, 222. 
Lacteals, 184. 
Lactose, 177. 
Lamb, 78, 81. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Lamps, kerosene, 59. 



INDEX 



245 



Lard, leaf, 113. 
Laundering, 194. 
Leaves as vegetables, 44. 
Leg of lamb or mutton, 81. 
Lemon juice, use of, in stains, 16. 
Lettuce, 149, 

Liquid and flour for doughs and bat- 
ters, proportion of, 123. 
Liquid diet, 153. 
Liquid yeast, 118. 
Liquids for bread making, 119. 

temperature of, for yeast, 119. 
Little-neck clams, 108. 
Liver, 80. 

Living, cost of, 208. 
Loaf sugar, 177. 
Lobsters, 110. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Loin of mutton or lamb, 81. 
Luncheons, 205. 



Manners, table, 28. 
Marmalades, 175. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Measurements, table of, 33, 
Meat, 78. 
boiling, 91. 

meats for, 80. 
salt or smoked meats, 92. 
braising, 91. 
broiling or grilling, 88, 
care of, 81. 
cooking of, 82, 
cuts of (see plates facing pp. 76, 

77,84, 85,92, 93). 
experiments with, 81. 
food value of, 78. 
gravies for, 85, 93. 
hamburg steak, 89. 
pan-broiled chops, 89. 
roasting, 90, 

meats for (see Meat, cuts of, 
also Roasts), 79. 
stewing, 87. 
Menu work, 162, 208. 

breakfast menus, with cost, 209. 
essentials in successful planning 

for home table, 208. 
luncheon menus, with cost, 211, 



planning of meals in, 162. 
reference books for, 162. 
relation of food value to expendi- 
ture in, 162. 
Microbes (see Germs). 
Middlings (wheat) , 116. 
Milk, 62, 

Milk products, 67, 68. 
Milk sugar, 177. 

recipes for milk dishes (see Index 
to Recipes) . 
Mineral matter in food, 61. 
Moisture as an agent to baking pow- 
der, 125. 
Molasses, 177. 

proportion of baking powder with, 
126. 
Mutton, 78, 81. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 

N 
Neck of beef, 80. 

of mutton or lamb, 81. 
Nursing, 185. 



Oils, 112. 

Oleomargarine, 67. 

Onions, cooking of, 44. 

Outfit for pupils in cookery classes, 

10. 
Oven, 131. 
Ox tail, use of, 80. 
Oysters, 108. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes), 



Pan broiling, 83, 
Pancreatic j nice, 183. 
Pastry, 145. 

recipe for plain (see Index to 
Recipes) , 
Pastry flour, 145. 
Peaches (see Index to Recipes) . 
Pears (see Index to Recipes) . 
Pickles (see Index to Recipes) . 
Pickling, 170. 
Picnic lunches, 205, 
Pictures, arrangement of, in house 

furnishing, 203. 



246 



INDEX 



Pies, 146. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
Plums (see Index to Recipes) . 
Poisons, 189. 
Pork, 79. 

chops, pan-broiled (see Index to 

Recipes) . 
chops, sauted (see Index to Rec- 
ipes) . 
Potatoes (see Vegetable soups. Scal- 
loped dishes) . 
recipes for (see Index to Recipes), 
Poultry, 95. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Powdered sugar, 177. 
Prime ribs (beef), 80. 
Proportions of 

baking powder with flour, molas- 
ses, sour milk, 126. 
flour and liquid for doughs and 

batters, 124. 
ice and salt for freezing, 163. 
ingredients for batters, 124. 
ingredients for quick doughs, 123, 
ingredients for yeast doughs, 123. 
sugar and fruits for jellies, 173. 
sugar and fruits for marmalades, 

175. 
sugar and fruits for sirups for can- 
ning, 167. 
thickening agents for liquids, 51. 
Proteids, 61, 
Provisions, list of, for camp cookery, 

219, 
Pudding sauces (see Index to Recipes) . 



Quick doughs, proportions of ingre- 
dients for, 120. 

R 

Raising of batters, 124. 
Raising of doughs, 120. 
Rattleran (beef) , 80. 
Refreshments for afternoon teas, 216. 
Refrigerator, 15. 
Rhubarb (see Index to Recipes) . 
Rice (see Index to Recipes) . 
Ripening of cheese, 69. 
of cream, 67. 



Ripening of meat, 78. 
Roast beef, 83. 
Roasting, 83. 

definition of, 83. 
Roasts : 

beef cuts for, 79. 

lamb cuts for, 81, 

time table for roasting, 83. 
Rooms as units in house furnishing, 

204. 
Roots as vegetables, 44. 
Round, 80. 

Rubbers for canning, 168. 
Rump, 80. 



Saddle, 81. 

Sago, 52. 

Salad dressings, 149, 

Salads, 148. 

dressings for (see Index to Recipes) . 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Saliva, 183. 

Salt and ice, proportions of, for freez- 
ing, 163. 
Salt meats, boiling of, 92. 
Sandwiches, 158, 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Sanitation, 190. 
Sauces (see Index to Recipes) . 
Scalds, 188. 
Scalloped dishes, 58. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 
School gardens, 226. 
School kitchen, 9. 
School lunches, 205. 
Scrubbing, 14. 

Sea moss as a thickening agent, 52. 
Seasoning, proportions of, for vegeta- 
bles, 45, 
Semi-solids, in diet, 153, 
Service, for breakfast, etc., 26. 
Serving, general rules for, 28. 
Setting the table, 25. 
Shellfish, 108. 

Sherbets (see Index to Recipes). 
Shin, 80, 85. 

Shortening for pastry, 145. 
Shoulder, mutton or lamb, 81. 
Sides of beef, 79. 



INDEX 



247 



Silver, cleaning of, 30. 

Sink, cleaning of, 31. 

Sirloin, cuts of, 80. 

Sirup for canning, 167. 

Skim milk, 63. 

Smoked meats, boiling of, 92. 

Soap, 114, 195. 

Soda, caustic solution, use of, 32. 

Soups (see Index to Recipes). 

cream, 64. 

meat, 84. 
Sour cream, 67. 

Sour milk, proportion of baking pow- 
der with, 126. 
Speck, a, to measure, 33. 
Spinach, cooking of, 45, 
Sponge cakes, making of, 133. 
Spoonful, a, to measure, 33. 
Spring lamb, 79. 
Spring wheat, 116. 
Stains, 16. 
Stairs, 13. 
Stale bread, 49. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Starch, 51, 183, 195. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 

suggestive topics for talks on, 
54. 
Station, 10. 
Steak, hamburg, 89. 
Steaks, 80, 83. 
Steaming, 139. 
Steer, 78. 
Sterile water, 36. 
Sterilizing, 167. 
Stewing, 86. 
Stews, beef cuts for, 80. 

dumplings for, 139. 

lamb cuts for, 81. 
Sticking piece (beef) , 80. 
Stirring of coarse cereals while cook- 
ing, 56. 
Stock, soup, 85. 
Stoves, 23. 

suitable for camp cookery, 218. 
Straining (jellies), 173. 
Sucrose, 177. 

Suet, 80. * 

Sugar, 177. 
Summer vegetables, 44. 



Supper table, the, 27. 
Sweeping, 12. 



Table, 25. 

dinner, 27. 
Tail, ox, use of, 80. 
Tapioca, 52. 
Tea and coffee, 36. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes) . 

stains, to remove, 16. 
Teas, afternoon, 216. 
Temperatures of water, 36. 
Tests for 

beef, 78. 

butter, 68. 

eggs, 71. 

fat, 114. 

fish, 101. 

flour, 117. 

lamb, 79. 

lobsters. 111. 

mutton, good, 78. 

oven for baking, 131. 

poultry, 95. 

veal, 79. 

vegetables, 44. 
Thickening agents, 52. 
Time tables for 

broiling meat and fish, 83. 

cooking of cereals, 56. 

doughs and batters, 124. 

roasting, 83. 
Tinware, cleaning of, 30. 
Tip of sirloin beef, 79. 
Tongue, beef, 81. 
Top of round, beef, 80. 
Towel, hand, use of, in cooking, 9. 
Tray, for the sick room, 154. 

serving, the, 28. 
Tripe, 80. 

Trying out of fat, 113. 
Tubers, 44. 

Tumblers, putting of jelly into, 173. 
Turkey, to select a, 95. 
Turnips, cooking of, 44. 



Vacuum cleaners, 224. 
Veal, 79. 



248 



INDEX 



Veal cutlets, 89, 
Vegetable fats and oils, 112. 
Vegetables, 42 (see also Vegetable 
soups, Salads, Sandwiches). 

cooking of, 44, 49. 

recipes for (see Index to Recipes). 

sauces for (see Index to Recipes) . 
Vermicelli, 54. 
Villi, 184. 

W 

Waste pipe, refrigerator, care of, 15. 
Water, 35. 61. 



Wheat, 116. 
Whey, 69. 
Whitefish, 102. 
White sauce, 47. 
Whole wheat flour, 117. 
Wicks, lamp, trimming of, 19. 
Window box, 226. 

Windows, treatment of, in house fur- 
nishing, 203. 
Wrapping of sandwiches, 158. 



Yeast, 117. 



HOME RECIPES 249 



250 HOME RECIPES 



HOME RECIPES 251 



252 HOME RECIPES 



HOME RECIPES 253 



254 HOME RECIPES 



HOME RECIPES 255 



256 HOME RECIPES 



FEB 7 1913 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 184 601 2 



