UNIVERSITY OF 

ILLINOIS LIBRARY 

AT URBANA CHAMPAIGN 

OAK STREET 

LIBRARY FACILITY 



Corner Book Shoj 

102 Fourth Ave. 
New York 3, N. Y 



THE 

WHEEL COOK BOOK 



COMPILED BY 



THE CARROLL- PARSAL 
WHEEL 



OF THE 



SECOND CONGREGATIONAL 
CHURCH 



OAK PARK, ILLINOIS 
1913 



The meek and humble-miuded wife 
Has nearly disappeared, . . 

Each year a smaller number 

Can claim the name, 'tis feared. 

A spirit of equality 

Runs through the race aflame. 

Rejoicing in a higher life 

On nobler friendship's plane. 

Linked heart and hand together, 

Linked mind and spirit too — 

We modern wives would here present 
Helps toward this end for you. 
Economy and goodness are in each dish so fine. 
Entrust to them your husband's health, 
Love's star will brighter shine. 






Contents 

PAGES 

Rebus 2 

Tables 5-8 

Bread, Rolls, Mufians, etc 9-20 

Cakes and Icing 21-38 

Candy : 39-46 

Cheese, Eggs and Salads 47-56 

Fish, Meat, Poultry 57-70 

Ices 71-74 

Jellies, Preserves and Pickles 75-90 

Pies, Cookies and Doughnuts 91-100 

Puddings and Other Desserts 101-114 

Sauces and Salad Dressing •. 115-120 

Soups 121-126 

Vegetables 127-138 

Recipes for Feeding a Large Number 139-146 

Miscellaneous , 147-155 



Tables 

TABLE OF MEASURE 

A speck makes one-quarter saltspoon. 

Four saltspoons make one teaspoon. 

Three teaspoons make one tablespoon. 

Eight tablespoons of dry and solid material make one 
cup. 

Sixteen tablespoons of liquid material make one cup. 

Two gills make one cup. 

One wine glass makes one-half gill. 

One cup contains eight ounces of liquid. 

Ten eggs, average size, make one pound. 

One-half ounce bottle extract makes twelve teaspoons. 

One tablespoon butter makes one ounce. 

One tablespoon granulated sugar makes one ounce. 

One heaped teaspoon powdered sugar makes one 
ounce. 

One tablespoon flour makes one-half ounce. 

Two tablespoons ground spice make one ounce. 

Five nutmegs make one ounce. 

One quart sifted pastry flour makes one pound. 

One quart less one gill, sifted patent flour makes one 
pound. 

One scant pint granulated sugar makes one pound. 

One pint butter makes one pound. 

One pint chopped meat, packed, makes one pound. 

One cup rice makes one-half pound. 

One cup cornmeal makes six ounces. 

One cup stemmed raisins makes six ounces. 

One cup cleaned currants makes six ounces. 

One cup stale bread crumbs makes two ounces. 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS. 

One quart of flour requires one pint of butter, or 
butter and lard mixed for pastry. 

One quart of flour requires one heaping tablespoon 
of butter for biscuit. 

5 



6 The Wheel Cook Book 

TABLE OF PROPORTIONS— Continued 

One quart of flour requires two tablespoons of butter 
for shortcakes. 

One quart of flour requires one cup of butter for cup 
cakes. 

One quart of flour requires one-half level teaspoon of 
salt. 

One quart of flour requires four teaspoons of baking 
powder. 

One quart of flour requires one pint of milk for 
muffins, gems, etc. 

One quart of flour requires one scant quart of milk 
for batters of all kinds. 

One measure of liquid to three measures of flour for 
bread. 

One teaspoon of soda to one pint of sour milk. 

One teaspoon of soda to one cup of molasses. 

One teaspoon of salt to one pound of meat. 

A spoon means that the material should lie as much 
above the edge of the spoon as the bowl sinks below it. 
A heaping teaspoon means that the material should be 
twice as high above the edge of the spoon as the bowl 
sinks below it. A level teaspoon should hold sixty drops 
of water. All dry materials are measured after sifting. 

A spoon of salt, pepper, soda, spice is a level spoon. 

One-half of a spoon is measured by dividing through 
the middle lengthwise. 

A speck is what can be placed within a quarter inch 
square surface. 

TIME FOR BAKING 

Loaf Bread, 40 to 60 minutes. 
Rolls and Biscuit, 10 to 20 minutes. 
Graham Gems, 30 minutes. 
Gingerbread, 20 to 30 minutes. 
Sponge Cake, 45 to 60 minutes. 
Plain Cake, 30 to 40 minutes. 
Fruit Cake, 2 to 3 hours. 



Tables 

TIME FOR BAKING— Cont'nued 

Cookies, 10 to 15 minutes. 
Bread Pudding, 1 hour. 
Rice and Tapioca, 1 hour. 
Indian Pudding, 2 to 3 hours. 
Steamed Pudding, 1 to 3 hours. 
Steamed Brown Bread, 3 hours. 
Custards, 15 to 20 minutes. 
Pie Crust, about 30 minutes. 
Plum Pudding, 2 to 3 hours. 



TIME FOR SUMMER VEGETABLES 

Greens, Dandelions, 1% hours. 

Greens, Spinach, 1 hour. 

String Beans, 2 hours. 

Green Peas, 20 minutes. 

Beets, 1 to 3 hours. 

Turnips, 1 to 3 hours. 

Squash, 1 hour. 

Potatoes, 20 minutes. 

Corn, 20 minutes. 

Asparagus, 20 minutes. 

This applies to young and fresh vegetables. 



TIME FOR WINTER VEGETABLES 

Squash, 1 hour. 
Potatoes, % hour. 
Potatoes, baked, 1 hour. 
Sweet Potatoes, % hour. 
Baked Sweet, 1 hour. 
Turnips, 2 hours. 
Beets, 3I/2 hours. 
Parsnips, 1 hour. 
Carrots, li/^ hours. 
Cabbage, 3 hours. 



8 The Wheel Cook Book 

TIME FOR BROILING 

Steak, one inch thick, 4 to 6 minutes. 
Steak, two inches thick, 8 to 15 minutes. 
Fish, small and thin, 5 to 8 minutes. 
Fish, thick, 15 to 25 minutes. 
Chickens, 20 to 30 minutes. 



TIME FOR MEATS 

Beef, underdone, per pound, 9 to 10 minutes. 
Beef, fillet of, 20 to 40 minutes. 
Mutton, leg, per pound, 10 to 12 minutes. 
Mutton, stuffed shoulder, per pound, 18 minutes. 
Yeal, loin of, plain, per pound, 15 to 18 minutes. 
Veal, stuffed, 20 minutes. 
Pork, spare rib, per pound, 15 to 20 minutes. 
Pork, loin or shoulder, per pound, 20 to 30 minutes. 
Liver, baked or braised, 1 to 1^/2 hours. 
Corned Beef, per pound, 25 to 30 minutes. 
Boiled (simmered) Beef, per pound, 20 to 30 minutes. 
Ham, after water or cider begins to boil, 15 to 20 
minutes. 

Bacon, per pound, 15 minutes. 

Chicken, baked, three to four pounds, 1 to 2 hours. 

Turkey, ten pounds, 3 hours. 

Goose, eight pounds, 3 hours. 

Duck tame, 40 to 60 minutes. 

Duck, wild, 30 to 40 minutes. 

Grouse, Pigeons and other large birds, 30 minutes. 

Small birds, 10 to 15 minutes. 

Venison, per pound, 15 minutes. 

Fish, long and thin, six to eight pounds, 1 hour. 

Fish, thick, six to eight pounds, 1^/2 to 2 hours. 

Fish, small, 25 to 30 minutes. 



Breads, Rolls, Muffins, Etc. 

BRAN BREAD 

One quart of bran, one pint of white flour, one-half 
cup molasses, one teaspoon soda (dissolved in part of 
molasses), one teaspoon salt, one pint of buttermilk, one 
egg. Mix all ingredients, add, if desired, one cup of 
currants, figs or raisins. Bake one hour. 

Mrs. Kate L. Ballard. 

BRAN BREAD 

Two cups white flour, two cups graham flour, one cup 
bran, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, two cups 
sour milk, two teaspoons soda, one-half cup water, one- 
half cup raisins, salt. Let rise one-half hour ; bake thirty 
to forty-five minutes. This makes two small loaves. 

Mrs. W. T. Hughes. 

BROWN BREAD 

One cup New Orleans molasses, one cup hot water 
in which dissolve one teaspoon soda, one cup sweet milk 
in which dissolve one teaspoon baking powder, one quart 
graham flour (unsifted), a pinch of salt. Mix in order 
given. Bake one hour in three baking powder cans (or 
loaf), filling cans a little more than half full. Oven 
must be moderate. 0. K. 

BROWN BREAD 

Two cups sour milk, three-fourths cup molasses, one 
cup white flour, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda, un- 
sifted graham flour to make a stiff batter, one-half cup 
seeded raisins. Mrs. L. B. Reed. 

BROWN BREAD 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, two cups 
sour or buttermilk, one and one-half teaspoons soda, 
three cups graham flour, one cup raisins or nuts. Bake 
one hour in moderate oven. Mrs. Conn. 

9 



10 The Wheel Cook Book 

CORN BREAD 

Two cups sour milk, one and one-half cups corn meal, 
one-half cup flour, two or three eggs, one teaspoon soda, 
one teaspoon salt, one tablespoon sugar. Sift dry in- 
gredients together, excepting soda is put in sour milk. 
Melt two tablespoons bacon fat or butter in pan and 
add to mixture last thing. Ruth Vail, 

Jacksonville, 111. 

SOUR MILK CORN CAKE 

Two cups of sour milk, one-half cup of sugar, two 
cups of corn meal, one cup of flour, two level teaspoons 
of soda dissolved in a little milk, a small piece of melted 
butter, a sprinkle of salt, one well beaten egg. Add the 
sugar and soda to the milk, then mix and sift the other 
ingredients, adding the well beaten egg and melted butter 
last. Bake in gem pans, in a hot oven. 

NUT BREAD 

Three cups flour, four teaspoons baking powder, one- 
half cup sugar, one and one-half cups milk, one cup 
ground hickory nut meats. Mrs. J. P. Black. 

NUT BREAD 

One quart flour, one pint milk, one-half cup sugar, 
one cup nut meats, four teaspoons baking powder, 
rounded, one teaspoon salt. Sift dry ingredients, add 
two eggs, well beaten, and milk. Let rise 20 minutes 
and bake three-quarters of an hour in slow oven. 

Mrs. R. H. Clinton. 

NUT BREAD 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, two 
cups milk (or water), four cups flour, four teaspoons 
baking powder, one cup chopped nuts (floured). Let 
rise about 20 minutes. Bake in moderate oven about 
one hour. Mrs. W. H. Allen. 



Breads, Rolls, Muffins, Etc. 11 

NUT BREAD 

Four cups flour, four rounding teaspoons baking 
powder, one and one-half cups sugar, (scant), one and 
one-fourth teaspoons salt, (level), one-half cup nuts, 
broken in pieces. Mix dry materials. Mix two cups milk 
and two well beaten eggs. Combine two mixtures. Pour 
in buttered pan, let stand 20 minutes before baking. 
Bake in slow oven one hour. When bread is nice 
and brown put pan of water on rack beneath it and finish 
baking. Mrs. Plummer. 

NUT WHOLE WHEAT BREAD 

Two and one-half cups entire wheat flour, one and 
one-half cups white flour, two cups sour milk, one-half 
cup molasses, one-fourth cup sugar, two level teaspoons 
soda, salt, one-half cup nuts, one-half raisins. Makes 
two small loaves. Let stand one-half to one hour. Bake 
one hour, slow oven. Mrs. Frank E. Ballard. 

NUT BREAD 

One Q^^ well beaten, two-thirds cup sugar, one cup 
sweet milk, one cup nut meats, chopped fine, two cups 
white flour (after it is sifted), four teaspoons baking 
powder, one cup graham flour, one teaspoon salt. Put 
in tin and raise for one-half hour. Bake three-quarters 
hour in moderate oven. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

One cup oatmeal (Quaker Oats), one tablespoon but- 
ter, one tablespoon lard, one teaspoon salt, one-third cup 
molasses, broAvn sugar enough to make one-half cup 
altogether. Pour over this mixture two cups boiling 
w^ater. Cool until lukewarm, add one yeast cake, one 
cup of nuts, broken in small pieces. Mix with white 
flour as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon and let it 
rise over night. In the morning cut dowTi, put in 
two bread pans and let rise until very light. Do not 
knead at all and use as little flour as possible in handling. 



12 . The Wheel Cook Book 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

Two eggs, well beaten, one-half cup sugar, one cup 
milk, one cup white flour, one cup graham flour, two 
teaspoons baking powder, two tablespoons melted but- 
ter, one teaspoon salt. Bake slowly. 

Mrs. W. H. Allen. 

BRAN MUFFINS 

Two cups bran, one cup flour, one and one-half cups 
sweet milk, one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons molasses, 
one teaspoon soda. Mrs. Lavinl\. 

CORN MUFFINS 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter or lard, 
creamed together; one or two eggs, one cup milk or 
water, two cups flour (sifted and even), three-quarters 
cup corn meal, salt, two teaspoons baking powder 
rounded. Makes about 18 muffins. 

Mrs. Frank E. Ballard. 

HONEY MUFFINS 

One bowl cereal, left over (Cream of Wheat, Algrain 
or any other), one cup honey, little salt, two eggs, well 
beaten, small amount raisins, one tablespoon butter, 
three heaping teaspoons baking powder, flour to make 
reasonably soft dough. Bake in muffin pans. 

Mrs. Kirk Austin. 

ENGLISH TEA BISCUITS 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, creamed; 
one cup of English currants, one teaspoon of salt (level 
teaspoon), one cup of milk, two teaspoons of baking pow- 
der; flour enough to roll like ordinary biscuits. Cut 
small and sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar. Bake in 
rather a quick oven. ]Mrs. Babson. 



Breads, Rolls, Muffins, Etc. 13 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Two cups scalded milk, three tablespoons butter, two 
tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon salt, one yeast cake dis- 
solved in one-fourth cup lukewarm water ; flour ; add but- 
ter, sugar and salt to milk; when lukewarm, add dis- 
solved yeast cake and three cups flour ; beat thoroughly, 
cover and let rise until light ; cut dow^n and add enough 
flour to knead (it will take about two and one-half cups). 
Let rise again ; then shape by cutting or tearing off small 
pieces of dough and shaping round like a biscuit; with 
handle of large wooden spoon roll through center of 
each biscuit; brush edge of lower halves with melted 
butter, fold and press edges together, place in greased 
pan, one inch apart, cover, let rise and bake in hot 
oven fifteen minutes. As rolls rise they will part slightly, 
and if hastened in rising are apt to lose shape. 

Mrs. William Preston. 

^^ RUSKS 

One cup soft butter, three-fourths cup granulated 
sugar, three-fourths cup brown sugar, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoon soda, one cup chopped walnuts, 
one cup seeded raisins, three eggs beaten lightly, one tea- 
spoon baking powder, two and one-half cups flour, or 
enough to make quite thick. Drop small spoonfuls on 
buttered tins. 

LOVERS KNOTS 

One cup scalded milk, two tablespoons sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-half cake compressed yeast, two 
tablespoons melted butter, one egg, grated rind of one- 
half lemon, flour. Add sugar, salt, to hot milk. When 
lukewarm add dissolved yeast, mix in flour to make 
soft batter ; let rise ; when light add other ingredients and 
enough flour to knead, let rise and when light roll out in 
a sheet one-half inch thick. Cut in strips one-half inch 
wide and nine inches long and tie in knot. Place in 
buttered pans and when light bake fifteen to eighteen 
minutes. Mrs. Parsal. 



14 The Wheel Cook Book 



RUSKS 



One cup milk, one yeast cake dissolved in one-fourth 
cup lukewarm water, flour, one-fourth cup sugar, one 
teaspoon salt, one egg and yolk one egg, one-eighth 
teaspoon mace, one-fourth cup melted butter. Scald 
milk; when lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake and one 
and one-half cups flour; beat w^ell, cover and let rise 
until light. Add sugar, salt, eggs well beaten, mace and 
butter, and enough more flour to knead; knead, let 
rise again, shape and bake about fifteen minutes in 
hot oven. This same mixture may be rolled in a long 
strip to one-fourth inch thickness, spread with butter, 
rolled up like a jelly roll, and cut in one inch pieces. 
Place pieces in pan close together, flat side do\^Ti. 

Mrs. WiLLiiVM Preston. 



RUSSIAN BREAD 

Four and one-half cups flour, one cake compressed 
yeast, one and one-fourth cups scalded milk, one-fourth 
cup sugar, one and one-half cups raisins, two eggs, one- 
fourth cup butter, one teaspoon salt, cinnamon to taste. 
Dissolve yeast in scalded milk, cooled to eighty de- 
grees; add one and one-half cups flour and mix until 
smooth; let stand until light and puffy. Add eggs, 
sugar, butter, raisins, salt, remainder of flour and cinna- 
mon. Mix to a stiff dough and knead thoroughly. Let 
stand until double in volume. Divide into two equal 
parts for two loaves; cut each loaf into three equal 
parts ; roU the parts into strips about twelve inches long 
and tapering to a point at each end ; press ends together 
and braid. Place on buttered baking sheet, cover and 
allow to stand until light. Bake from one-half to three- 
quarters of an hour. When cool, ice with an icing 
made by mixing a few drops of hot water with powdered 
sugar, flavoring with vanilla. 



Breads^ Rolls, Muffins, Etc. 15 

SCONES 

Four cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, half 
teaspoon salt, quarter teaspoon grated nutmeg, three 
tablespoons butter, four tablespoons sugar, one cup 
raisins and currants mixed, milk to make a soft dough 
(about one and one-half cups), one q^^ beaten into 
milk. Sift flour, baking powder, salt, sugar and nut- 
meg together. Rub in butter, stir in raisins and cur- 
rants. Add Qgg and milk until a soft dough is formed. 
Place in two pie tins and mark off into eight sections 
with back of knife. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Rub together one tablespoon sugar and one of 
milk and when scones are baked brush them over with 
this syrup. Place in oven for a few seconds, break 
apart and serve hot or cold. Mrs. Parsal. 



SOUR MILK GRIDDLE CAKES 

Two and one-half cups flour, two cups sour milk, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one and one-fourth level teaspoons 
soda, one Qg^. Mix and sift flour, salt and soda; add 
sour milk and q^^ well beaten. Drop by spoonfuls on 
a greased hot griddle ; cook on one side ; when puffed, full 
of bubbles, and cooked on edges, turn and cook other 
side. Serve with butter and maple syrup. 

Mrs. William Preston. 



WAFFLES 

Beat one q^^ light, add pint buttermilk, one tea- 
spoon soda and one-half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon 
lard, add sufficient flour to make medium batter, add one 
heaping teaspoon baking powder last. Have irons hot 
and well greased. Mrs. Mershon. 



16 The Wheel Cook Book 



WAFFLES 



Three cups flour, 6 teaspoons baking powder, one 
teaspoon salt, level; two cups milk or water, yolks three 
eggs, white three eggs, two tablespoons melted butter. 
Mix and sift dry ingredients ; add milk gradually, yolks 
of eggs well beaten, butter and white of eggs beaten 
stiff ; cook on a greased hot waffle iron. Serve with maple 
syrup or powdered sugar. The waffle iron should be 
well heated on one side, turned, heated on other side, 
and thoroughly greased before iron is filled. In filling 
put a tablespoon of mixture in each compartment 
near center of iron, cover, and mixture will spread to just 
fill iron. If sufficiently heated, it should be turned 
almost as soon as filled and covered. In using a new 
iron, special care must be taken in greasing, or waffles 
will stick. Mrs. William Preston. 



Additional Recipes 17 



18 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 19 



20 The Wheel Cook Book 



* Cakes and Icing 

Frosting 

FIVE MINUTE 

The white of one egg, one teaspoon lemon juice, one 
scant cup of powdered sugar stirred together until the 
sugar is all wet, then beat with a fork for just five min- 
utes; spread quickly on the cake while warm. 

Boston Cook Book. 

- BOILED 

Boil one cup granulated sugar, a speck of cream of 
tartar, and one-third cup water until it spins a thread 
when dropped from the spoon, then pour in a fine 
stream into the white of an egg beaten stiff, beating as 
you pour; continue beating until stiff enough to stand 
alone, add flavoring and spread quickly on the cake with 
a knife dipped in warm water. 

ORNAMENTAL 

One cup sifted, powdered sugar, one teaspoon lemon 
juice, the white of an egg ; beat the egg until it is frothy 
but not dry, then sprinkle over three teaspoons sugar and 
beat five minutes; add one teaspoon each five minutes 
till quite thick, then put in the lemon juice. Beat with 
a fork and when a point of it wiU stand in any position 
it is ready to press through a pastry tube upon the 
cake, which should be already covered with a smooth 
plain frosting and dry. 

FONDANT 

Two cups sugar, one cup water, a bit of cream of 
tartar half as large as a pea. Boil without stirring until 
a little dropped into ice water can be gathered into a 
ball and rolled like wax between the fingers. Cool 
and stir to a soft cream. Add flavor or coloring while 
cold, then soften over hot water and spread while warm. 

21 



22 The Wheel Cook Book 

CHOCOLATE 

Melt one ounce chocolate, add one teaspoon powdered 
sugar and add to the boiled frosting till it is dark as you 
wish. 

ORANGE 

Grate the thin rind of an orange and soak it one-half 
hour in three teaspoons lemon juice. Squeeze the juice 
through a fine muslin and use like the lemon in five- 
minute frosting. 

GELATINE 

Dissolve one teaspoon gelatine in three tablespoons 
warm water, add one cup pulverized sugar and beat 
until smooth. Flavor to taste. 

SUGAR GLAZE 

One cup powdered sugar, one tablespoon lemon juice, 
about one tablespoon boiling water ; beat hard till smooth 
and semi-transparent. Spread on the cake as soon as 
taken from the oven. 

CHOCOLATE GLAZE 

Omit the lemon juice from the above recipe and add 
three heaping tablespoons of pulverized chocolate and 
one teaspoon vanilla. 

GOLDEN 

Beat two yolks of egg with one cup sugar and one- 
half teaspoon old Jamaica rum, add more sugar if not 
stiff enough to hold its place. 

FIG FILLING 

Add one-half pound (or less) figs, chopped, to the 
boiled icing and ice a layer cake. 



Cakes and Icing 23 

MAPLE FONDANT 

One cup yellow or maple sugar, one-half cup thin 
cream; boil together fifteen minutes, take from fire 
and stir constantly till it stiffens, spread quickly on 
warm cake as it hardens very fast. 

BOILED ICING 

One cup granulated sugar, one-third cup of cold 
water, a speck of cream tartar. Boil till it forms a 
soft ball in a cup of cold water. Add slowly, stirring 
all the time, to the well beaten white of one egg. When 
almost cold add one teaspoon of flavoring and spread 
on cake. Double this recipe for larger cake. 

CARAMEL FILLING 

Two cups"l)ro^vn sugar, one-half cup cream or milk, 
one tablespoon butter. Boil all together, stirring only 
to prevent scorching, until it forms ball you can pick 
up in cold water. Take from fire and beat until thick 
as molasses. Mrs. Hughes. 

TWO GOOD CHOCOLATE FILLINGS 

NO. 1 

One cup sugar, one-third cup boiling water, white 
of one egg, one saltspoon cream of tartar, one square 
chocolate. Boil sugar and w^ater without stirring until 
syrup threads. Pour over beaten egg boiling hot, in a 
fine stream, beating well. Add chocolate melted. 

NO. 2 

One square chocolate, one-half cup milk, butter size 
of walnut, one and one-half cups sugar. Cook until 
thick. J. W. W. 



24 The Wheel Cook Book 

MARSHMALLOW FILLING FOR DEVIL'S FOOD 

CAKE 

Two cups granulated sugar, one cup water, one table- 
spoon vinegar. Boil until a little dropped into cold 
water forms a soft ball. Then stir in the beaten whites 
of two eggs and one-fourth pound marshmallows. 

Eleanor Quaid ]\Iitchell. 

APPLE CAKE 

One cup sugar and one cup of flour sifted together 
eight times. Break two eggs into a half pint measuring 
cup. Add one tablespoon orange juice, then fill the 
cup with sweet cream ; pinch of salt. In the last sifting 
of flour add two level teaspoons of baking powder, beat 
all together (this will be a very thin batter). Bake 
slowly in a square tin. Serve hot or cold with the follow- 
ing top dressing : White of one egg, one cup granulated 
sugar, three sour grated apples. Beat all together with 
a large dover egg beater until stiff. Flavor with vanilla. 
Cut cake in squares and put a heaping spoonful on top — 
Excellent. Mrs. W. H. Pearce. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

One and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one-half teaspoon salt, two teaspoons shortening, 
one of lard, one of butter ; one egg. Mix with milk of a 
consistency to spread. Put in greased square pan and 
place apples cut into eighths. Mrs. L. Kuehn. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE ^. 

Set in a pan of water and boil until thick the fol- 
lowing : One egg yolk, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
sweet milk, one-fourth cake chocolate. While cooling 
this beat one cup sugar and one-half cup butter or 
shortening to a cream. Add two eggs and one-half cup 
sour milk with one level teaspoon soda in it, also two 
cups sifted flour and two teaspoons vanilla. Lastly, add 
the cooked chocolate filling. Use the extra whites of egg 
for the icing. I^Irs. A. L. Kuehn. 



Cakes and Icing 25 

ANGEL CAKE 

Whites of twelve eggs, one teaspoon cream of tartar, 
one cup sugar, one cup Swan's Down Flour, flavor. 
Add cream of tartar to eggs and beat until stiff. Add 
one-half cup sugar to beaten whites. Sift other one-half 
cup with flour Ave times, and add very lightly. Bake in 
moderate oven about forty-five minutes. 

Mrs. Chester Candy. 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, one cup 
pastry flour, sift seven or more times. Sift with flour 
two scant even teaspoons cream of tartar, and soda about 
size of a pea. Whites eleven large or twelve small eggs, 
beaten stiff, add sugar gently, then flour, then flavor- 
ing. Bake slowly one and one-quarter hours. Do not 
grease tin. Stir as little as possible to mix flour thor- 
oughly as it ^11 toughen. 

FROSTING FOR ANGEL FOOD CAKE 

Three-quarters cup boiling water, two cups sugar. 
Let boil until it forms a soft mass when dropped into 
cold water. Beat whites two eggs very stiff. Stir hot 
syrup into eggs, beating for some time until it becomes 
thick and creamy, add flavoring; add one cup melted 
chocolate if you prefer chocolate frosting. 

Mrs. Fred W. Lamb. 

GOLD CAKE 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup of milk, two cups flour, four level teaspoons baking 
powder, one teaspoon orange extract, eight egg yolks. 
Cream butter and sugar; add milk and dry ingredients 
alternately ; add well beaten yolks last ; beat well. They 
are nice iced with yellow icing. This mixture may be 
made into a loaf or into layers. Use one-half the recipe 
if you want enough for only one meal. Use the whites 
of the eggs for angel cake. 



26 The Wheel Cook Book 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

Part One 

One-fourth cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one egg, 
one-fourth cup milk, one cup flour, one teaspoon baking 
powder. 

Part Two. 

Two squares Baker's chocolate, one-fourth cup milk, 
one-half cup sugar, one egg yolk. Cook until thick. 
When cool mix with the above. Mrs. Conn. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

Part One 

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, one 
cup grated chocolate (two ounces), yolk one egg. Heat 
until dissolved. Do not boil. Set aside to cool. 

Part Two 

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two cups flour, two eggs, one teaspoon 
soda. Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, milk, 
sifted flour and whites of eggs beaten stiff. Stir in 
first part and add soda dissolved in a little warm water. 
Bake in three layers. Use marshmallow filling. 

Eleanor Q. Mitchell. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

One cup brown sugar, one cup grated chocolate, one 
cup milk (sweet). Cook together, when cool, add one 
cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, two cups flour and 
flavor. 

FROSTING FOR DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 

One cup grated chocolate, melted over steam, yolks 
two eggs beaten, one-half cup sweet milk, one and one- 
half cups sugar. Boil about ten minutes, remove from 
fire and add melted chocolate. Stir well. 

Mrs. Fred W. Lamb. 



Cakes and Icing 27 

FRUIT CAKE 

One-half pound butter, one-half pound brown sugar, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoon cloves, two teaspoons cinna- 
mon, one-half pint dark molasses, five eggs, one-half tea- 
spoon soda (with little hot water), one-half pound flour, 
one pound figs, chopped fine, one pound raisins, chopped 
fine, one pound currants, chopped fine, one pound al- 
monds, chopped fine, one-fourth pound citron. Steam 
three hours. Bake fifteen minutes. English walnuts 
instead of figs and almonds if preferred. 

Mrs. H. M. Price, 

Austin. 

FRUIT CAKE 

One and one-tenth pounds butter, one and one-tenth 
pounds sugar, one pound flour, ten eggs, one tablespoon 
mace, one tablespoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves, 
three nutmegs, four pounds seeded raisins, one pound 
currants, one-half pound citron cut fine, one-half pound 
figs cut fine, one-half pound nut meats, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in milk. Mrs. Parsal. 

DROP CAKES 

One and one-fourth cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup lard, three eggs, three tablespoons cold 
water, to which add one teaspoon soda, one-half nutmeg 
grated, salt, three cups flour, sifted, two-thirds pound 
raisins, and, if desired, one cup nuts, but good without. 
Drop on tins not close together. Spread a little and bake 
in a moderate oven. Mrs. R. H. Clinton. 

GINGER BREAD 

. One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup butter, 
two eggs, well beaten, three cups flour, two spoons soda, 
all kinds spices, one teaspoon vanilla, last, one cup boil- 
ing water. Ethel C. Bennett. 



28 The Wheel Cook Book 

GINGER CAKE 

One-half cup butter, one large half-cup sugar, two 
eggs, one cup molasses, two and one-half cups flour, one- 
half teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon each cinnamon and 
ginger, two level teaspoons soda. Sprinkle soda over 
all and add one cup boiling water. Bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. Parsal. 

CINNAMON CAKE 

Rub four ounces of butter into half a pound of flour, 
add four ounces of sugar, one and a half teaspoons 
baking powder and one teaspoon of ground cinnamon. 
Beat up one large egg, add it very gradually, making the 
dry ingredients into a stiff paste. Knead it a little on 
a floured baking board, divide it into two pieces, roll 
them out and line a greased dinner plate with one of 
them, spread some jelly in the center, lay the other 
piece on the top, pinch it neatly around the edges. Bake 
in a moderate oven for half an hour. Serve hot or cold 
with sifted sugar on top. If cinnamon is not liked, 
ginger may be added, or a teaspoon of lemon or vanilla 
extract could be added with the eggs. 

GINGER BREAD 

One-half cup molasses, one-half cup brown sugar, 
one-half cup boiling water, one-half cup shortening 
(butter and lard), two cups sifted flour, one egg, one 
teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon soda in hot water. 

Mrs. L. B. Reed. 

FRUIT CAKE 

One cup light brown sugar, one-half cup butter, 
yolk of one egg (save the white for frosting), one-half 
cup sour milk, with one-half teaspoon of soda in it, one 
and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoon of cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon of cloves, a little nutmeg, one cup cut 
raisins. Bake slowly. 



Calces and Icing 29 

FRUIT CAKE 

Two cups flour, one cup brown sugar, one cup sour 
cream, one cup chopped raisins, one cup chopped nuts, 
one-fourth pound citron cut very fine, two tablespoons 
molasses, butter the size of a large egg, two eggs, one 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon (each) cinnamon, cloves 
and nutmeg. Very digestible. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

One-half cup butter scant, one and one-half cups 
granulated sugar sifted, one cup cold water, three even 
cups flour sifted three times before measuring; two 
rounded teaspoons baking powder, whites of four eggs, 
flavor with teaspoon almond extract and one-half tea- 
spoon vanilla extract. Cream the butter and sugar; 
add one-third of the water with one cup flour. Beat, 
add second cup flour, continuous beating. Into last 
cup of flour add baking powder and add as the others; 
then the restcf the water. Flavor and cut and fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites very carefully. Bake in three 
large layers. 

FILLING 

Grind together one-half pound figs, one cup pecan 
or walnut meats, one-quarter pound raisins. Make boiled 
icing of two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup water, 
whites of two eggs; add nuts and fruit and spread 
between layers. Mrs. Parsal. 

MARGUERITES 

White of one large egg, one cup sugar, enough 
water to moisten. Boil together slowly until a soft 
ball can be made. Then pour slowly over the well 
beaten egg, beating all the time. Stir thick with shelled 
walnuts (English) chopped fine, and spread over salted 
wafers; place in oven to brown. Delicious to serve 
with coffee, chocolate or lemonade. Nice if crackers 
not salted are used to serve hot with ice cream. 



30 The Wheel Cook Book 

SOFT GINGER CAKE 

One-half cup sour milk, one level teaspoon soda, one- 
half cup New Orleans molasses, one-half cup sugar, one 
egg, one teaspoon ginger, and one teaspoon cinnamon. 
Piece of lard size of an egg, two rounding cups of 
unsifted flour (sift into cake), one almost heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder. 

LEMON CAKE 

Two cups flour, two cups sugar, six eggs, six table- 
spoons butter, four tablespoons milk, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one teaspoon soda (or two of baking 
powder). 

JELLY FOR CAKE 

Three-quarters pound sugar, one-quarter pound 
butter, four eggs, rind of three lemons grated and the 
juice. Beat the butter, sugar and eggs together. Set 
into a dish of boiling water until heated; then add the 
lemon and stir until thick. Spread between layers of 
cake. 

SPICE CAKE 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, 
one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one-half cup 
chopped raisins, two level teaspoons baking powder, 
two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
one-half teaspoon nutmeg. Mrs. Schultz. 

MOTHER'S SPICE LOAF CAKE 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup butter or lard, two 
eggs well beaten, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon bak- 
ing soda, three cups (scant) flour, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoon cloves, one cup raisins, one-half 
cup chopped nut meats. Bake about one hour in slow 
oven. Makes two loaves. Can be made with granu- 
lated sugar or sweet milk and baking powder. 

Mrs. W. H. Allen. 



Cakes- and Icing 3 1 

SPICED DEVIL'S FOOD 

One cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoon cloves, one square Baker's chocolate, one and 
one-half cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder. 

Mrs. C. M. Candy. 

SPICE CAKES 

One Qggj one-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, 
one-half cup molasses, one-half cup sour milk, one tea- 
spoon soda (level), one-half nutmeg, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, one cup raisins or currants, two scant cups flour, 
Bake in muffin tins. 

POPPYSEED CAKE 

Three-quarters cup butter, one cup sugar, three- 
quarters cup.'poppyseed, three-quarters cup milk, two 
cups flour (scant), two teaspoons baking powder, vanilla. 
Soak poppyseed in milk for one hour and when cake 
is all together, add four beaten whites of eggs. This is 
a loaf cake. 

FROSTING 

One cup milk, one-half cup sugar, one tablespoon 
corn starch, yolks of four eggs, one-half cup nut meats. 
Cook until thick. Hattie Farber. 

POTATO CAKE 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, one cup 
butter, one-half cup grated chocolate, four eggs, one 
cup mashed potatoes, cold and seasoned as for table, 
two cups sifted flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
cup chopped nuts, one teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves, nutmeg, lemon and vanilla. Bake in layer or 
loaf. A very large and delicious cake. 





32 The Wheel Cook Book 

PRUNE CAKE 

One cup sugar, three-quarters cup butter, three 
eggs, one cup stewed prunes, chopped (soak prunes 
over night, add one cup sugar), four tablespoons sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon mace, one and one-half cups flour, almond 
flavor in icing. Mrs. William G. Long. 

SWAN CAKE 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, two and one-half 
cups flour, one-half cup corn starch, one cup sweet milk, 
whites of eight eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one teaspoon vanilla. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE 

One cup sugar, one cup rich sour cream, two eggs, 
one and one-half cups flour, one even teaspoon soda, 
one cup raisins, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-quarter 
teaspoon nutmeg, a pinch of salt. Put all ingredients 
into mixing bowl in order named and beat five minutes. 

Mrs. G. CfiADwicK. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Yolks of eight eggs, and one cup sugar beaten 
together until light; two cups flour, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder; add one cup boiling water last. Bake in 
two layers. Mrs. C. M. Candy. 



TILDEN CAKE 



One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, 
with two teaspoons baking pow^der, one cup sweet milk, 
one-half cup corn starch, four eggs, one teaspoon lemon 
extract. Makes a very large cake. 




Cakes and Icing 33 

TORTE CAKE 

Six eggs separated and beaten separately, one cup 
sugar, one cup dates (heaping), one-half cup walnuts, 
six tablespoons dry bread crumbs, very fine, one tea- 
spoon baking powder. Bake, serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Conn. 

CARAMEL FILLING 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup cream, one-half 
cup butter, vanilla. Mrs. Conn. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Beat two Qgg whites and yolks separately; add a 
cup of granulated sugar and beat hard. Now stir in 
a cup of flour that has been sifted with a teaspoon of 
baking powder and a little salt and last of all add a 
half cup of boiling water. Beat hard and bake in an 
ungreased pan in a moderate oven. Cover the cake 
for the first few minutes it is in the oven. 

Mrs. Parsal. 

WHIPPED CREAM ONE EGG CAKE 

One scant cup sugar, one q^^, one level tablespoon 
butter, cream together; one scant cup milk, two scant 
cups flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder, one 
teaspoon vanilla. This makes a two layer cake. Whip 
a half pint bottle of whipping cream. Flavor with one 
teaspoon vanilla; add two tablespoons sugar. Spread 
whipped cream on both layers with either sliced 
bananas or pineapple. Mrs. R. C. Davis. 

ONE EGG CAKE 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one ^gg, one m 

cup milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, » C^ ^ 
vanilla. 






34 The Wheel Cook Book 

WHITE CAKE 

Very delicious but inexpensive. One and one-half 
cups of sugar, two cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup of milk, whites of four eggs, two teaspoons 
baking powder. Cream butter and sugar together, then 
add milk, afterwards flour with baking powder sifted 
in. Lastly the whites beaten stiff, flavor with vanilla 
and bake in two layers. Mrs. J. D. McDovp^ell. 

HUCKLEBERRY CAKE 

One cup sugar rubbed into one-half cup butter, 
add two well beaten eggs, a teaspoon vanilla, two cups 
flour sifted three times with two level teaspoons baking 
powder, and last of all, a pint of fresh or cooked huck- 
leberries, dredged with flour. Bake in loaf tin. Eat 
with soft sauce made with juice from canned berries, 
if used. Mrs. Parsal. 

LILY CAKE , 

One-third cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, one and three-quarters cups flour, two and one- 
half level teaspoons baking powder, whites three eggs, 
one-third teaspoon lemon extract, two-thirds teaspoon 
vanilla extract. Cream the butter, add sugar and cream 
again, add milk and flour alternately (baking powder 
sifted with the flour), beat thoroughly when all is in 
and add beaten whites. Three layers or loaf. A very 
dainty, satisfactory cake. J. W. W. 

BRAIN CAKE 

Eight eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, 
three-quarters cups of butter and lard, three-quarters 
cup milk, three cups flour, two heaping teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, one teaspoon vanilla. Use only whites 
of eggs, adding them last. This is a very large cake. 
Fine for weddings or birthday cakes. 

Mrs. a. L. Kuehn. 



Additional Recipes 35 



S6 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 37 



38 The Wheel Cook Book 



Candy 

FONDANT 

Two pounds granulated sugar, one cup cold water, 
one small pinch cream of tartar. Place the sugar and 
water together in deep pan, and bring them gently to 
the boiling point. Add cream of tartar, and boil gently 
without stirring, until a little of the mixture will form 
a soft ball in cold water. Wipe off with a damp cloth 
any crystals that may form on the side of the pan, 
but do not disturb the syrup. Set syrup aside to cool 
and as soon as thick beat till white and creamy. Twice 
this quantity or more may be worked in the bread mixer. 
Otherwise work with hands as for bread until it is 
smooth and creamy. A very little corn starch may be 
sifted over board to prevent sticking. Set aside, cov- 
ered with damp cloth or oiled paper, and let the fondant 
ripen for twenty-four hours, then use for making cream 
candies, or for stuffed dates or chocolate creams. Add 
coloring for bonbons and any flavoring desired. To 
have this a success you must follow directions abso- 
lutely. 

MILK FONDANT 

Milk fondant is far better as a foundation for candy 
than that made with water, as it is richer and retains 
its freshness twice as long. Three cups of granulated 
sugar and one of milk boiled until it strings or until 
a slight crystallization is evident on the edge of the pan. 
Put aside until nearly cold, then stir until *4t comes.** 
It will be white as snow and soft, yet will retain any 
shape into which it is molded. Mrs. Gaylord. 

COCOANUT FUDGE 

Two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup milk or 
enough to moisten sugar, two tablespoons butter. Boil 
tiU it forms a soft ball in water. Cool and beat. Add 
several heaping tablespoons of grated cocoanut, flavor, 
and when cold and thick, pour into greased pans. 

39 



40 The Wheel Cook Book 

FUDGE 

Put in pan or chafing dish, two tablespoons of butter, 
one cup of dark brown sugar, one-half cup milk, two 
cups molasses, four ounces grated chocolate. Stir con- 
stantly until mixture forms a soft ball in water. Take 
from fire, cool a little and beat till you find it thick, flavor 
with vanilla and add chopped nuts. Care must be taken 
not to get it too hard before pouring into greased pan. 
When cold cut in squares. Instead of dark brown sugar 
and molasses you can use two cups granulated sugar 
and have a fine fudge. Add three tablespoons Karo 
Korn Syrup. 

MARSHMALLOW FUDGE 

Two cups granulated sugar, two-thirds cup milk, 
two squares of chocolate, butter size of small egg. 
Cook all together until a drop in water retains its 
shape (stirring as often as possible), then take from 
fire and beat vigorously until heavy and thick. Pour 
into buttered pans. One-half pound marshmallows, cut 
into quarters and beaten into the fudge, or put whole 
on the pans with the beaten fudge poured over them, 
add greatly to the deliciousness of the candy. 



DIVINITY FUDGE 

Two and one-half cups granulated sugar, one-half 
cup cold water, one-half cup Karo Korn Syrup. Boil 
till it threads or forms a soft ball in cold water. Beat 
whites of two eggs and add one-half cup of the boiling 
syrup, whipping all the time. Boil rest of syrup four 
minutes longer and add to the above. Beat well. Add 
nuts (as many and any kind you wish), flavor with 
vanilla. When cold, pour on greased tin and mold and 
cut. Larger quantities may be beaten in bread mixer. 

Mrs. a. L. Kuehn. 



Candy 41 

COATING FOR CHOCOLATE CANDY 

Melt one ounce or one square of bitter chocolate, 
add two tablespoons of milk and two of sugar and 
one-quarter of a teaspoon of butter. Stir till smooth; 
drop balls of cream candy into it and remove with a 
fork or hat pin. If chocolate becomes too stiff, add a 
few drops of sugar and water syrup and heat again. 

CHOCOLATE PEPPERMINT CANDY 

A simple way to get the effect of chocolate pepper- 
mints is to make the fondant as strong as desired of 
peppermint, spread smoothly on one or two plates, and 
pour over this a thick coating of melted chocolate. When 
chocolate is hard, cut into squares and serve. This is 
best the day after making. 

PEPPERMINT DROPS 

Boil one pound granulated sugar (one pint), with 
two-thirds of a cup of water. Wipe away, with a damp 
cloth, any crystals that form on sides of pan. When 
it forms a soft ball in water, remove from fire. Add 
peppermint oil, seven drops if you like it strong ; other- 
wise five drops. When slightly cool beat until it is 
creamy and just right for pouring. Color as you 
like. Drop from end of teaspoon, twirling it as you 
drop, on waxed paper. 

BUTTERSCOTCH 

Moisten a pound of brown sugar with a cup of cold 
water to which you have added two tablespoons of 
vinegar and put over the fire in an agate saucepan. 
Cook for ten minutes. After it comes to the boil add 
four tablespoons of butter. Boil until a little dropped 
into cold water hardens at once and then pour in a thin 
sheet into buttered tins. When it begins to harden 
cut it into squares with a buttered knife. 



42 The Wheel Cook Book 

CANDIED ORANGE RINDS 

Cut orange rinds into strips with scissors, letting 
stand over night in salt water. In morning rinse in 
cold water and put in kettle to boil, cover with cold 
water and boil twenty minutes, throw off water and put 
on more cold water, making three boilings. Drain in 
colander while making syrup. To one cup orange rinds 
take one ciip granulated sugar and about one-half cup 
water, boil up good and put in the rinds. Keep boiling 
until the syrup will spin a thread. The rinds should 
look transparent and the syrup almost cooked away. 
Place on platter to dry, sprinkle with granulated sugar, 
dry slowly. Mrs. Kate L. Ballard. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

Stir together three cups molasses and one cup brown 
sugar, add a gill of vinegar and put aU over the fire 
in an agate or porcelain lined saucepan. Bring slowly 
to a boil, stirring often. After it has boiled half an 
hour begin to test the candy by dropping a little of 
it from a spoon into cold water. As soon as a little of 
the syrup hardens in the water, stir a tablespoon of 
butter into the boiling mixture. When this melts put 
in a teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in a tablespoon 
of boiling water and take immediately from the fire. 
Pour into buttered pans and then pull to whiteness, or 
you may let it stay in the pans and as it cools cut it 
into squares with a buttered knife. You may put nut 
meats with it. The really old fashioned candy of my 
girlhood was always pulled and we had little respect 
for the mere taffy which meant no muscle and active 
work. 

^ MOLASSES CANDY 

One cup granulated sugar, one cup molasses (Duff's), 
one-half cup vinegar, a little butter, vanilla, one tea- 
spoon, soda, one-quarter teaspoon. Cook until very 
brittle. Add soda, vanilla, and let cool. PuU. 

Mrs. Conn. 



Candy 43 

CEEAM CANDY 

Four cups of sugar, two cups of water, three-fourths 
of a cup of vinegar, one cup of cream or rich milk, a 
piece of butter according to one's taste, two teaspoons 
of vanilla, a pinch of soda. Let it boil until it cracks 
in water; pour into a flat, well-buttered dish to cool, 
then pull till white. 



44 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 45 



46 The Wheel Cook Book 



Cheese, Eggs and Salads 

CHEESE OMELET 

Three eggs, beaten separately, one-half cup chopped 
cheese, two-thirds cup milk, one-half teaspoon salt, a 
very little paprika. Bake twenty minutes in a pan of 
hot water. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

One cup grated cheese, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
salt, two tablespoons lard, three tablespoons water. 
Roll out, cut in strips, and bake in a quick oven. 

CHEESE FONDUE 

One cup soft stale bread crumbs, one cup cheese, 
cut in small pieces, one cup scalded milk, one table- 
spoon butter, two eggs (beaten separately), one-half 
teaspoon salt, cayenne. Soak crumbs in milk. Add 
rest of ingredients, lastly folding in the whites of 
eggs beaten very stiff. Cook in buttered baking dish, 
in a moderate oven, twenty minutes or until firm. 
Serve at once. Serves four people. 

Grace Howe Thomas. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

Half a pound of fresh cheese, two eggs, one-quarter 
saltspoon cayenne, one tablespoon of butter, one tea- 
spoon of mustard, one-half teaspoon of salt, one cup of 
cream. Break the cheese in small pieces and put it 
and the other ingredients in a light saucepan, which put 
over boiling water (or a chafing dish). Stir until the 
cheese melts; before serving add one teaspoon of Wor-. 
cestershire sauce. Spread the mixture on slices of hot, 
crisp toast or crackers. Serve at once. 

Mrs. Carroll. 
47 



48 The Wheel Cook Book 

WELSH EAREBIT 

One egg well beaten, one pound American cheese, 
yellow is best, grated or broken in pieces, six table- 
spoons of milk, a generous pinch of salt, a good dash 
of paprika, two teaspoons of Worcestershire sauce. Put 
in chafing dish over hot water and when cheese melts 
add other ingredients, stirring all the time. College 
rarebits vary in proportion to the material on hand. 
Serve on crackers or toast, or bread, if nothing else is 
possible. A. 0. C. 

EGGS POACHED IN CHEESE SAUCE 

Make white sauce, adding grated cheese. Drop, as 
for poached eggs, the required number of eggs. Place 
each egg on toast when done; pour liquid over them 
and serve. Flavor with salt and paprika. A delicious 
luncheon or supper dish. Mrs. Elias Day. 

POACHED EGGS 

Have ready a perfectly clean frying pan, a quart of 
boiling water in which a tablespoon of salt has been 
dissolved and one teaspoon of vinegar added. Break 
the eggs one by one in a saucer and slip carefully into 
the water, which should be bubbling, but not violently 
boiling. Dash with a spoon a little water over each 
egg to make the top white, as the beauty of a delicately 
poached egg is to see the yolk through a veil of trans- 
parent white. Cook until the white is firm, but not 
leathery, lift out with pancake turner and serve on 
slices of golden-brown toast. 

EGGS POACHED IN MILK 

Instead of water, put the same amount of milk in 
pan, enough to cover eggs. Season it with salt, pepper, 
and butter. Drop eggs in carefully and cook as for 
poached eggs; but watch that they do not stick. Place 
each egg on a piece of toast. Pour over them the 
remaining milk and serve. Mrs. Elias Day. 



Cheese, Eggs and Salads 49 

EGGS IN WHITE SAUCE 

Boil hard and remove shells, six eggs, slice into bak- 
ing dish, season, cover with white sauce and bake from 
twenty minutes to thirty minutes in a fairly hot oven. 
Dust with paprika after it is ready to be served. 

Mrs. F. D. Yeaton. 

EGGS WITH TOMATOES 

Have ready two cups tomato which has been stewed 
with one small onion, one-half inch bay leaf, one-half 
teaspoon mixed whole spice, one-half teaspoon salt and 
strain. Put one rounded tablespoon butter in pan, 
add tomato, one-half cup crumbled cheese, and when hot 
drop in four whole eggs. Shake in a little paprika. Lift 
up as they cook and when whites begin to thicken stir 
the whole until creamy. Serve on wafers or toast. 

^^ EGG SAUTE 

Have as many eggs as the number to be served. 
Boil hard, remove shells, and leave whole. Dip in 
beaten egg and cracker crumbs; fry in deep fat as 
croquettes. Mrs. Elias Day. 

BAKED EGGS 

Butter an egg shirrer. Cover bottom and sides with 
cracker crumbs. Slip egg in carefully. Cover top of 
egg with buttered and well-seasoned crumbs. Bake in 
oven until white is firm and the crumbs brown. 

EGG CUTLETS 

Six hard boiled eggs chopped fine, two teaspoons 
chopped parsley, three teaspoons onion juice. Make a 
white sauce of one cup milk, three tablespoons flour, one 
and one-half tablespoons melted butter, salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix together and shape in balls and fry in 
deep fat. Mrs. J. P. Black. 



50 The Wheel Cook Book 

EGG OMELET 

Four eggs, four tablespoons cold water, three tea- 
spoons bread or cracker crumbs, one-half teaspoon salt, 
two level tablespoons butter, or one of butter and one 
of lard. Put butter and lard in omelet pan to heat. 
Separate eggs, adding water to yolks. Add this to 
stiffly beaten whites. Turn into omelet pan and sprinkle 
crumbs evenly on top. When set put in oven to dry; 
fold and serve with tomato sauce. 

SPAGHETTI NEAPOLITAN 

One box Red Cross Spaghetti, one can Campbell's 
tomato soup, one ten-cent bottle stuffed olives, pimento, 
one small can mushrooms, one-half pound ordinary 
cheese grated, two tablespoons olive oil, one onion cut 
fine. Cook spaghetti in boiling water, slightly salted, 
until it is tender. Put a layer in a large baking dish, 
then cover with grated cheese, a few mushrooms, olives, 
etc. Continue to fill the dish in this way. Be sure to 
have plenty of cheese on top. At the last put in two 
tablespoons olive oil, plenty of pepper and salt and 
pour on Campbell's tomato soup, adding hot water suf- 
ficient almost to cover the spaghetti and cook slowly, 
for at least two hours, adding more water if necessary. 
Leftover chicken gravy or any good soup stock may also 
be added. This is enough for ten or twelve people. The 
Italians serve with this eggs saute. (This recipe is in 
this cook book). Mrs. Elias Day. 

CREAM CHEESE SALAD 

Two bars cream cheese, one can sweet red peppers, 
one-half cup walnut meats, ground coarsely. Work into 
the cheese the nuts and all the mayonnaise, perhaps 
a cup, that it will take up and still be firm enough to 
mold. Stuff the peppers with this and put aside to 
get cool and firm. Put lettuce on salad plates. When 
ready to serve, with a very sharp knife slice the peppers 
as thin or thick as you desire, and serve on lettuce. 




Cheese, Eggs and Salads 51 

ELKHORN CLUB CHEESE SALAD 

One twenty-five cent jar of cheese, one hard boiled 
egg, one-quarter of a red pepper, one-quarter of a green 
pepper, heaping teaspoon of picililli, salt and a dash 
of paprika; mix well together. Garnish with parsley 
or lettuce leaves. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Three bananas, two oranges, one-half pound white 
grapes, one head of lettuce, four tablespoons of olive 
oil, two tablespoons of lemon juice, salt and pepper to 
taste, white mayonnaise dressing. Peel and remove 
thread from bananas, cut in slices. Peel oranges and 
cut in lengthwise slices. Skin grapes (if you prefer), 
halve them, remove seeds. Marinate each kind of fruit 
separately. Put fruit on lettuce and dress with may- 
onnaise. 

LETTUCE SALAD 

Add to a French dressing several tablespoons of chop- 
ped green peppers (sweets), and onions or chives. Cut 
a head of lettuce in sections as you cut cabbage. Clean 
well and pour this dressing over. Roquefort cheese 
crumbled and added to French dressing is delicious. 
Serve on head lettuce prepared as above. G. R. C. 

CALCUTTA SALAD 

Two cream cheeses, cream, one-half cup American 
cheese, grated, one cup cream, whipped, three-quarters 
tablespoon gelatine, one tablespoon cold water, one table- 
spoon hot water, salt, paprika. Soak gelatine in cold 
water until soft, add boiling water and steep over hot 
water until gelatine is dissolved. Soften cheese with 
plain cream. Add American cheese, whipped cream, 
gelatine, salt and paprika. Turn in a ring mold, chill. 
Remove from mold, garnish with asparagus and red 
pepper ring. Serve with French dressing. 



52 The Wheel Cook Book 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Drain well a can of asparagus, also a can of red 
peppers. Cut peppers in strips and lattice it with 
asparagus. Serve on lettuce with French dressing. 

G. R. Chacey. 

POTATO SALAD 

For each quart of cold boiled potatoes, boiled or diced, 
allow one cucumber (sliced), one cup of diced celery and 
enough mayonnaise to moisten. Blend with a fork, lift- 
ing but not stirring. 

BEET AND POTATO SALAD 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in dice, cook and peel beets 
and let drain. Then dice and mix lightly with potatoes. 
Shortly before serving, dress with a thick mayonnaise. 

TOMATO SALAD FOR WINTER USE. . 

Quart can of tomatoes, teaspoon salt, tablespoon 
sugar, butter according to taste, one-half package gela- 
tine. Cook tomatoes and seasoning thoroughly, add gela- 
tine previously soaked in one-half cup water. Strain 
through colander, pour in molds (one-half jelly-glass is 
about the right size for each individual). Set in cold 
place. When time to serve, empty each mold on a leaf 
of lettuce and cover with salad dressing sprinkled with 
nut meats. Mrs. Gaylord. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

One-half can tomatoes, one-half teaspoon salt, one 
bay leaf, one piece celery, one-fourth cup sugar, four 
whole peppers, one slice onion. Boil twenty minutes; 
strain and while still hot add one-half box of gelatine 
softened in cold water. Serve individual molds or cut in 
squares and garnish. Jennie W. Westcott. 



Cheese, Eggs and Salads 53 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Good for an emergency because so quickly prepared. 
For each individual, one slice Hawaiian pineapple, center 
filled with nut meats, covered with salad dressing. If 
desired a tiny mountain of whipped cream, topped by a 
maraschino cherry, placed on each slice, will add to its 
appearance and richness. Mrs. Gaylord. 

PERFECTION SALAD. 

One envelope Knox Gelatine, one-half cup cold water, 
one-half cup mild vinegar, one pint boiling water, one 
teaspoon salt, one cup finely shredded cabbage, juice of 
one lemon, one-half cup sugar, two cups celery cut in 
small pieces, one-fourth can sweet red peppers finely cut. 
Soak the gelatine in cold water five minutes ; add vinegar, 
lemon juice, boiling water, sugar and salt. Strain, and 
when beginning to set add the remaining ingredients. 
Turn into a mold and chill. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise dressing. This will serve from eight to ten 
people. To serve fifty people abundantly, use four times 
the recipe. ^ Mrs. C. M. Candy. 

HEIDELBERG SALAD 

Wash a fresh lettuce, pull it into small pieces and dry 
it well. Put it into a salad bowl with some boiled beets, 
peeled cucumber and celery all cut into strips like 
matches. Now add some strips of any cold game or fowl 
that you may have, two anchovies filleted and cut like the 
vegetables, and a few olives. Sprinkle a little chopped 
parsley on the top, add some mayonnaise sauce. Put a 
few strips of gherkins on the top with a hard boiled yolk 
of egg rubbed through a sieve. 

KNICKERBOCKER SALAD 

Head lettuce, oranges cut in lobes, California grapes 
in halves with Thousand Island Dressing. 

Mrs. Geo. A. Ross. 



54 The Wheel Cook Book 

WALDORF SALAD 

One cup sour apples, one cup celery, one tablespoon 
lemon juice, one-half cup walnut meats broken in pieces. 
Dice apples and celery, dust with salt and pepper. 
Mayonnaise may be used in place of lemon juice, enough 
to moisten. 

CUCUMBER JELLY 

Soak two large cucumbers in two cups of water 
over night, slice the cucumbers. In the morning strain, 
add three small tablespoons of vinegar, two tablespoons 
of sugar. Let these come to the boiling point, and 
pour over one tablespoon of gelatine that has been 
soaked in a little water (using minute gelatine), add a 
quarter of a cup of pecan nuts, cut up and stir fre- 
quently until it begins to solidify. Place in lettuce 
squares of jelly and cover with a mayonnaise dressing. 

Mrs. 0. S. Spurling. 

(Original) 



Additional Recipes 55 



Additional Recipes 56 



Fish, Meat, Poultry 

BAKED FISH. 

Sprinkle fish with salt and fill with stuffing; sew or 
skewer edges together. Cut gashes on each side across 
the fish and put strips of salt pork into them. Grease the 
baking sheet and place fish on it. Dredge with flour, salt 
and pepper. Put in pan with pieces of fat pork. Baste 
every ten minutes. Cook fifteen minutes to the pound 
and fifteen minutes over. 



STUFFING FOR FISH. 

Three cups crumbs, one-half cup butter, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, pepper, onion juice. Add seasoning and 
melted butter to crumbs. 



CRAB MEAT. 

One can Campbell's tomato soup, one can crab meat, 
one can button mushrooms. Fry one small onion (minced 
fine) in butter until it turns yellow, not brown. Add the 
tomato soup, then the crab meat broken up with a fork. 
Drain the mushrooms and add and if it is too thin, add a 
thickening of flour and water, about three tablespoons of 
flour to one of water. Serve hot on toast from chafing 
dish, if you wish. Mrs. A. L. Kuehn. 



SALMON LOAF 

One two-pound can salmon, four eggs well beaten, 
four tablespoons melted butter, one cup fine bread 
crumbs, one-half cup milk. Season with salt, cayenne 
pepper and minced parsley to taste. Put three bay 
leaves in bottom of buttered dish and steam an hour. 
Serve with a sauce made of a can of tomato soup thick- 
ened with one tablespoon flour. 

57 



58 The Wheel Cook Book 

BAKED HALIBUT WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Two pounds halibut, two cups tomatoes, one cup 
water, one slice onion, three cloves, one-half level table- 
spoon sugar, three level tablespoons butter, three level 
tablespoons flour, three-fourths level teaspoon salt, one- 
eighth level teaspoon pepper. Cook tomatoes, water, 
onion, cloves and sugar twenty minutes. Melt butter, 
add flour, and stir into hot mixture. Add salt and 
pepper, cook ten minutes and strain. Clean fish, put in 
baking pan, pour around half the sauce, and bake thirty- 
five minutes, basting often. Remove to hot platter, pour 
around remaining sauce, and garnish with parsley. 

Mrs. William Preston. 

FISH BALLS 

One cup salt codfish, two heaping cups potatoes, one 
egg, one-half tablespoon butter, one-eighth teaspoon 
pepper. Wash fish in cold water, and pick in very small 
pieces, or cut, using scissors. Wash, pare and soak pota- 
toes, cutting in pieces of uniform size before measuring. 
Cook fish and potatoes in boiling water to cover until 
potatoes are soft. Drain through a strainer, return to 
kettle in which they were cooked, mash thoroughly (being 
sure there are no lumps left in potatoes), add butter, egg 
well beaten and pepper. Beat with a fork two minutes. 
Add salt if necessary. Take up by spoonfuls, put in fry- 
ing baskets and fry one minute in deep fat, allowing six 
balls for each frying ; drain on brown paper. Reheat the 
fat after each frying. Mrs. William Preston. 

SALMON TURBAT 

One can salmon, two tablespoons butter, two table- 
spoons flour, one pint milk, salt and pepper, two eggs. 
Pick bones and fat from salmon and shred. Make sauce 
by melting butter and adding flour and milk, salt and 
pepper. When cool add eggs slightly beaten. Place 
layer of fish in buttered dish, then layer of sauce, alter- 
nating until all is used. Cover with butter crumbs and 
bake one-half hour. Serves six. 



Fish, Meat, Poultry 59 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Drain one quart oysters ; put in layers in baking dish, 
alternating with cracker crumbs and seasoning of salt, 
pepper and butter. When dish is nearly filled, add 
strained oyster liquor and sufficient milk to nearly cover 
the oyster. Cover with cracker crumbs. The amount of 
cracker crumbs and butter generally depends on your 
own taste. One dozen crackers will do. Bake one-half 
hour in moderately hot oven. 

Stuffings 

VEAL STUFFING 

Three cups stale bread crumbs, three onions chopped 
fine, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon white pepper, 
two tablespoons chopped parsley, one-half cup melted 
butter or suet. 

POULTRY STUFFING 

One quart stale bread crumbs, salt, pepper and dried 
th3rQie to season highly, one-half cup melted butter. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING FOR POULTRY 

One pint fine bread crumbs, one pint shelled and 
boiled French chestnuts chopped fine, salt, pepper and 
chopped parsley to season, one-half cup melted butter. 

OYSTER STUFFING FOR POULTRY 

Substitute small raw oysters, picked and washed, for 
chestnuts in foregoing recipe. 

STUFFING FOR PORK 

Three large onions parboiled and chopped, two cups 
fine bread crumbs, two tablespoons powdered sage, two 
tablespoons melted butter or pork fat, salt and pepper 
to taste. 



60 The Wheel Cook Book 

CELERY STUFFING 
Substitute finely cut celery for chestnuts. 

STUFFING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS 

Two chopped onions, two cups mashed potato, one 
cup bread crumbs, salt, pepper and powdered sage to 
taste. 

STUFFING FOR TOMATOES, GREEN PEPPEItS, 

ETC. 

One cup dry bread crumbs, one-third teaspoon salt, 
one-fourth teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon onion juice, 
one tablespoon chopped parsley, two tablespoons melted 
butter. Hominy, rice or other cooked cereal may take 
the place of crumbs. 

ROASTING MEATS 

All meats should be raised at least an inch from the 
bottom of the baking-pan, using a trivet or rack made 
for the purpose. Rub the joint well with salt and pepper 
and dredge with as little flour as will insure a dry sur- 
face. Very lean meat is improved by having thin slices 
of fat meat, either bacon, pork or its own fat laid over 
the surface at first until there is sufficient dripping to 
baste with. Do not add water to the pan until within an 
hour of taking up ; it is better not to use any, but after 
the meat has been lifted to the platter, drain off all the 
grease, add enough thin broth to dissolve the glaze left in 
the pan, and use this for gravy, either **au jus" or 
thickened slightly with brown roux. 

BAKED HASH 

Prepare like either of the preceding, adding more 
seasoning, onion, catsup, Worcestershire sauce, etc., and 
one raw egg. Pack into a well-buttered baking dish and 
bake till hot through and weU browned. Serve in the 
dish in which it was baked. Bake in sweet peppers. 



Fish, Meat, Poultry 61 

HASH 

The best meat for a hash is from a stew or the sides 
of a la mode beef, though corned beef is excellent and 
any scraps of cold meat can be used if care be taken to 
first simmer till tender all tough bits. Mince evenly, but 
not too fine, allowing about one-quarter fat meat ; add an 
equal bulk of chopped potatoes, freshly cooked are best, 
but cold ones will do, if more convenient. Mix well to- 
gether and season with salt and pepper. Put into a 
sautoir one cup of stock or beef or veal gravy, adding 
enough hot water to make one cup for each pint of meat 
and potato, one teaspoon butter and the meat as soon as 
the stock boils. Stir only enough to mix well, then let 
stand on a moderately hot fire till a brown crust has 
formed on the bottom. Fold over and turn out like an 
omelet and serve hot. A tepid hash is an abomination. 

^ MEAT LOAF 

(Special Recipe) 

Chop finely, or force through a meat chopper, cold, 
cooked veal or beef. Add six crackers (rolled), one tea- 
spoon salt, four tablespoons milk or cream, two table- 
spoons lemon juice, one teaspoon pepper and a few drops 
of onion juice. Pack in a small bread pan, smooth evenly 
on top, brush with white of egg, and dot top with butter. 
Bake slowly for forty-five minutes. Baste frequently 
with melted butter and a little hot water and prick while 
baking that butter may be absorbed by meat. When cool 
remove from pan and cut in thin slices for serving. 

FRICADELLA 

One pound beef chopped fine, one-half pound veal, 
one-half pound pork, three eggs, one tablespoon butter, 
one teaspoon salt, a little pepper, grated rind one-half 
lemon, a pinch of nutmeg, two tablespoons water, two 
ounces crackers rolled fine. Mix all together, form into 
a roll and roast in butter forty-five minutes. 

Mrs. Parsal. 



62 The Wheel Cook Book 

SWISS STEAK 

Select about two pounds of round steak, cut about 
two inches thick, pound about a cup of flour into it on 
both sides ; brown in some nice bacon fat, then cover with 
water and simmer an hour, then add four medium onions 
sliced, and simmer until done. Turn frequently, as it is 
inclined to stick. Mrs. 0. F. Spurling. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE 

(Special Recipe) 

Wash clean, put in the pot with water to cover it, a 
pint of salt, and a small pod of red pepper ; if the water 
boils away, add more so as to keep the tongue nearly 
covered until done ; boil until it can be pricked easily 
with a fork, take out, and, if needed for present use, take 
off the skin and set away to cool ; if to be kept some days, 
do not peel until wanted for the table. The same amount 
of salt will do for three tongues if the pot is large enough 
to hold them, always remembering to keep enough water 
in the kettle to cover all of the tongues. Soak the salt 
tongue over night and in same way, omitting the salt. 
After peeling, place tongue in saucepan with one cup 
water, one-half cup vinegar, four tablespoons sugar, and 
cook until liquor is evaporated. 

JELLIED VEAL LOAF 

Four-pound knuckle of veal ; cook until tender, about 
three hours in very little w^ater; season with salt and 
pepper ; pick meat off ham in small pieces ; take one cup 
of juice left from meat and to this add one tablespoon 
Knox 's gelatine ; have ready seven hard-boiled eggs ; into 
your molding pan place first layer of meat, alternating 
with eggs, making three layers of meat and two of eggs, 
with meat layer on top ; over this pour mixture of juice 
and gelatine. Let stand over night, slice and serve cold. 

Mrs. Mershon. 



Fish, Meat, Poultry 63 

BAKED CALF'S LIVER 

Buy a calf 's liver ; do not slice. Put into small bak- 
ing dish, cover with strips of bacon and chopped onion; 
put hot water in pan and roast as any meat, basting con- 
stantly. Cook about one hour. Make gravy as for any 
roast. Mrs. Elias Day. 

STEWED BEEF 

Take a piece of rump, cut in small pieces and lay for 
twenty-four hours in vinegar or spiced pickle. Put a 
tablespoon butter, an onion, one bay leaf, a few pepper 
corns and one or two whole cloves, and the beef dredged 
with salt in the stew pan, cover close, put over a good 
heat and when meat has fried to a nice brown, add one 
pint of Grerman cooking wine and as much more good 
soup stock, and stew it till soft. Before serving take out 
meat, skim off the fat, add a tablespoon of flour mixed 
smooth with the broth. Strain it through a sieve and 
pour over th^previously dished meat. 

BEEFSTEAK PIE 

One round steak (about two pounds), one teaspoon 
salt, one-half cup suet, one teaspoon extract of beef, one 
tablespoon chopped onion, one saltspoon pepper, one- 
half cup flour, two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons 
flour, one pint of water and white of one egg. Cut the 
steak into cubes of one inch. Rub butter and flour to- 
gether, dissolve the extract of beef in water, add it to 
the butter and flour and stir until boiling. Throw the 
meat into a frying pan and shake it over the fire until 
it is well seared and slightly browned ; add the sauce and 
seasonings. Chop the suet, add gradually the flour ; add 
a quarter teaspoon of salt and sufficient ice water to just 
moisten ; mix quickly and roll into a sheet. Put the beef 
in the bottom of a baking dish, cover it with the crust 
and make a hole in the center. Brush the crust with 
the white of an egg beaten with a little water and bake 
in a moderate oven one hour. Cold roast beef may be 
used in precisely the same manner. 



64 The Wheel Cook Book 

SCALLOPED RICE AND LAMB 

Cut the lamb from yesterday's roast into small dice. 
Into a cup of this stir a cup of boiled and drained rice. 
Chop a large green pepper fine, after removing seeds, 
and add this to the meat and rice mixture. Moisten with 
leftover gravy and tomatoes or tomato soup and bake in 
a casserole one-half hour. Mrs. Parsal. 

MEAT TIMBALES 

One pint cooked cold meat, chopped fine ; one table- 
spoon melted butter, one-half cup sweet cream; work 
well together; whites three eggs, beaten stiff; work 
lightly into mixture. Fill greased tincups with the 
meat and dressing, put in pan with hot water and bake 
twenty minutes. Turn out on hot dish and serve. 

Kindness op D. B. 

SWEETBREADS 

A sweetbread is the thymus gland of lamb or calf, 
but in cookery, veal sweetbreads only are considered. 

Pancreas, or stomach sweetbread, is sold in some 
sections of the country, but not in our markets. 

Sweetbreads are a reputed table delicacy, and a 
valuable addition to the diet of a convalescent. 

A sweetbread consists of two parts, connected by 
tubing and membrane. The round, compact part is 
called heart sweetbread, the other part is throat sweet- 
bread. The heart sweetbread is more desirable and 
should be purchased if sweetbreads are found in the 
market separated. 

Sweetbreads spoil quickly. They must be removed 
from paper as soon as they come from the market; 
plunged in cold water, allowed to stand one hour, 
drained and put to cook in acidulated, boiling, salted 
water. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. Drain again, 
plunge in cold water, that they will keep white and 
firm. Sweetbreads are always parboiled in this way 
for subsequent cooking. 



Fish, Meat, Poultry 65 

SWEETBREAD IN PEPPERS 

Parboil sweetbread, cool and cut in small pieces. 
There should be one cupful ; melt two tablespoons but- 
ter, add two tablespoons flour, and pour on gradually 
one-half cup chicken stock; then add two tablespoons 
cream and one-third cup mushroom caps broken in 
small pieces. Season with salt and paprika. Cut a 
slice from the end of six peppers, remove seeds and par- 
boil peppers. Cool, fill, cover with buttered crumbs 
and bake until crumbs are brown. Serve with mush- 
room sauce. 

SWEETBREAD CUTLETS WITH ASPARAGUS 

Parboil a sweetbread and cut in one-half inch cubes 
or separate in small pieces. Reheat in a cup of white 
sauce. Creamed sweetbreads may be served on toast 
or used to -fill patty cases. Parboil a sweetbread split 
and cut in pieces shaped like small cutlets or cut in 
circular pieces. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in 
crumbs, egg and crumbs and saute in butter. Arrange 
in a circle around asparagus tips. 

FILLET OF BEEF LARDED 

About four pounds of the inside fillet of the sirloin, 
one onion, a small bunch of parsley, salt and pepper to 
taste. Lard the beef and put it into a pan with sufficient 
vinegar to cover it. Add a sliced onion, parsley and 
seasoning to taste, and let it remain in this pickle for 
twelve hours. Roast in a hot oven for an hour and a 
half; baste often. When done remove to a hot platter 
and glaze. Pour the drippings from the baking pan, set 
the pan on the stove, put half a pint of boiling water 
into it, let boil up, season and thicken with browned 
flour. Add any flavoring you may choose (mushrooms 
are especially nice) and send to the table in a gravy 
tureen. 



66 The Wheel Cook Book 

MODIFIED CHOP SUEY 

Three pounds of beef, four or five slices of bacon, 
one-half cup of rice (uncooked), one small onion, salt, 
pepper, paprika and celery. Cut the meat into small 
pieces and brown in a hot pan. Place a layer of meat, 
then celery, then rice, also bacon, all cut small; con- 
tinue until all are used, then add one onion (whole), 
and cover with water. Cook in a casserole slowly about 
three hours, covering with more water occasionally. 

Note : Two or three tablespoons of tomato chutney 
may be added if desired. 

HOT TAMALES 

Boil a fowl until tender, salt while boiling; chop 
very fine, season with plenty cayenne pepper, a little 
garlic; have ready a thick paste made of one cupful 
cornmeal mixed with a little boiling water. Shape 
meat into rolls size of little finger and encase each in 
the cornmeal paste. Take the inner husks of Indian 
corn, cut off ends, leaving husks about six inches long, 
wash them in boiling water. Wrap each tamale in a 
corn husk, put three Mexican peppers into liquor in 
which chicken was boiled, cook tamales in this for 
fifteen minutes. Veal may be substituted for chicken. 

TO ROAST POULTRY 

Rub all over with soft butter and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Place on rack in roasting pan and put in 
very hot oven. Make basting mixture with one-half 
cup each of butter or chicken-fat and water; keep hot 
and baste every ten or fifteen minutes. Roast three 
hours for eight-pound turkey, one to one and one-half 
hours for fowls. Keep oven very hot. If fowl is very 
large and heavy, cover breast and legs with several 
thicknesses paper to keep from burning. 



Fish, Meat, Poultry 67 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Two-pound spring chicken. Cut into pieces. Mix 
one cup flour, one tablespoon salt, one-quarter tea- 
spoon pepper. Roll pieces of chicken in flour, melt 
two tablespoons butter in frying pan. Put pieces of 
chicken in and fry on both sides quickly a nice 
brown. Pour over chicken one to two cups boiling hot 
water, cover with tight pan, turn gas low and let 
chicken sinuner twenty-five to thirty minutes. Serves 
four persons. 

CHICKEN TIMBALES 

Mix thoroughly one pint chopped chicken, one cup- 
ful stale bread crumbs, one-half teaspoon celery salt, 
one saltspoon pepper, one-half teaspoon salt, and mois- 
ten with one cup of milk or stock and two beaten eggs. 
Mixed herbs, cayenne, parsley, onion and lemon juice 
also can be used for seasoning. Pack in small molds, 
well buttere<i, and steam in hot water pan about fifteen 
minutes. 

CHILI CON CARNE 

Remove seeds from six red chillies, cover them with 
boiling water, set aside to soak until tender. Scrape 
pulp into water in which chillies were soaked. Cut 
two pounds of steak into pieces of uniform size, fry 
in butter. Add heaping tablespoonful flour, cook until 
this is browned, pour in the chilli water, add garlic 
and thyme to taste. Simmer until meat is done and 
gravy smooth and thick. Stir frequently during cook- 
ing. Kidney beans may be added if desired. 



68 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 69 



70 The Wheel Cook Book 



Ices 

ICE CREAM 

One quart of cream, one and a quarter cups milk, 
one and a quarter cups sugar. Boil the milk and sugar 
together eight minutes aft^r it begins to boil, stirring all 
the time. Cool and add the cream whipped to a froth. 
Flavor with one teaspoon of vanilla and freeze. This 
makes a very rich cream. I always use three bottles of 
cream instead of four, which is a quart. 

PEACH ICE CREAM 
(Special Recipe) 

One pint cream, one pint milk, three-quarter cup 
sugar, one cup mashed fresh peaches. Mix cream, milk 
and sugar, pour in freezer which has been properly 
scalded an^d freeze. When half frozen add peaches and 
continue freezing until stiff. Remove dasher and pack 
to ripen. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Two quarts fresh berries put through food press, 
enough sugar to make sweet after milk and cream are 
added to almost fill a one-gallon freezer. Use equal parts 
of milk and cream or one-third milk and two-thirds 
cream; freeze. Mes. A. L. K. 

ICE CREAM— WITHOUT A FREEZER. 

One pint rich whipping cream, one cup grated pine- 
apple or mashed peaches, or any fruit or flavoring. First 
whip cream until perfectly stiff, then add the fruit and 
put into a tin pail or mold and bury in a bucket of finely 
chopped ice and salt (or put in a snowbank). In fifteen 
minutes take out and scrape the cream away from edges, 
stir and bury again. Do this three times and at the end 
of an hour you will have most delicious ice cream. 

^Irs. J. B. Speck. 
71 



72 The Wheel Cook Book 

VANILLA SOUFFLE 

One-half cup sugar, one-half cup cold water. Boil 
together till syrup forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour 
syrup slowly over stiffly beaten whites of three eggs; 
beat as for icing. When cold, add one pint cream, 
whipped stiff; flavor to suit your taste, put in freezer, 
pack in salt and ice and set away to freeze. 

]\Irs. F. D. Yeaton. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

One pint whipped cream, six eggs (separated), one 
cup maple syrup, one cup chopped walnuts or cherries; 
pack in ice four hours. Cook yolks of eggs and syrup 
until very thick, stirring constantly; when cold add 
whipped cream, then beaten whites, then nuts or cherries 
and pack. Mrs. Fred W. Lamb. 

LEMON ICE 

Make a strong lemonade and freeze. For a sherbet 
add the well-beaten whites of two eggs, after freezing 
has started. A tablespoon of gelatine dissolved in one- 
half cup of cold water may be added in place of egg. 

CHERRY ICE 

Two pounds cherries, one and one-half pounds sugar, 
one quart water. Boil together and press through sieve. 
Add juice of one lemon and tablespoon of gelatine dis- 
solved in water; freeze. 

MILK SHERBET  

Two quarts rich milk, one pint cream, one quart 
sugar. Mix well and partly freeze. Then add the beaten 
whites of two eggs and the juice of four lemons. Freeze 
very hard. This makes one gallon and is delicious. 

G. R. Chacey. 




Ices 73 

ORANGE SHERBET 

One and one-half pints sugar, three pints water, juice 
of ten lemons. Boil sugar and water for twenty-five 
minutes ; add lemon juice and strain ; freeze. 



The Wheel Cook Book 



Jellies, Preserves and Pickles 

JELLY MAKING 

Jellies are made of cooked fruit juices and sugar, in 
nearly all cases the proportion being equal. 

Jelly Making Principle — In all fruits when ripe or 
nearly ripe there is found pectin, a carbohydrate, some- 
what similar in its properties to starch. It is because of 
this that we are able to make jelly. When equal quanti- 
ties of sugar and fruit juice are combined and the mix- 
ture heated to boiling point for some time, the pectin 
gelatinizes the mass. Pectin is best when fruit is just 
ripe or a little before. If juice ferments or cooking is 
continued too long, pectin undergoes a change and loses 
power of gelatinizing. 

Selection and Handling of Fruit — An acid fruit is 
more suitable, although in some acid fruit, as strawberry, 
the quantity of jelly making pectin is small. Most de- 
sirable fruits in order are : Currants, crabapples, apples, 
quince, grape, blackberry, raspberry, peach and pear. 
Large fruits, such as apples, peaches and pears, must be 
boiled in water until soft. Jelly will be clearer and finer 
if fruit is simmered and not boiled. To prevent crystal- 
lizing: Add right amount of sugar; if fruit contains 
high percentage of sugar reduce it ; do not allow juice to 
boil rapidly ; do not stir ; if gauge is used it should always 
register 25 degrees. 

To Prepare Glasses — Sterilize as for canning ; remove 
from boiling water and drain ; fill to rim on which cover 
rests ; let it get thoroughly cold and cover. 

To cover glasses with paraffine melt in saucepan over 
hot water, keeping from flame. Pour on surface of fruit, 
enough to cover it, tipping glass so that paraffine will 
attach itself to edge of glass and cover completely. 
Paraffine can be used a second time by washing it with 
cold water and remelting. With paper: Cut glazed 
white paper right shape, dip in brandy or alcohol; 
cover with tin lids or circular pieces of paper larger 
than top ; fasten securely. 

75 



76 The Wheel Cook Book 

To Make Jelly Bag — Material, flannel, Canton flannel 
or double thickness of fine cheese-cloth ; cut square eight- 
een inches, sew together two adjacent sides with French 
seams, rounding at end ; bind top with tape and attach at 
equal distances three heavy double tapes, about ten inches 
long; before using always scald and wring thoroughly; 
after using empty bag and scald it; if stained boil with 
washing soda and rinse thoroughly. 

APPLE JELLY RECIPE 

Wash fruit, cut in small pieces, cover with boiling 
water and cook until soft. Allow juice to drip through 
jelly bag. Remove bowl containing juice that has 
dripped through. Use this for first-grade of jelly. Now 
squeeze remaining juice from bag into another bowl and 
keep this for second-grade of jelly. This will not be as 
clear as the first. Pleasure liquid and boil twenty min- 
utes. Add equal volume of sugar, stir until dissolved 
and boil gently without stirring, three to five minutes. 
Strain through single cheese cloth into glasses. Let 
stand in sunshine until thoroughly cold, then cover. 

CURRANT AND RASPBERRY CONSERVE 

Bring one quart of red currant juice and the same 
amount of red raspberry juice slowly to a boil and cook 
ten minutes. Add five pounds of hot granulated sugar, 
one pound of seedless raisins chopped, the juice of four 
oranges and the peel of two very clean oranges par- 
boiled and chopped very fine. Boil until it jellies. 



PLUM CONSERVE 

One basket plums, washed and pitted, equal weight 
in sugar, two oranges, one lemon, rind and all; cut in 
pieces; cook slowly one hour or more. Just before re- 
moving from stove stir in one cup English walnuts. 

Mrs. R. H. Clinton. 



Jellies, Preserves and Pickles 77 

IN PRESERVING 

The young housekeeper, venturing on her first pre- 
serving, may like to know that : 

Five boxes of currants wiU yield nine glasses of jelly. 

Six pounds of peaches will yield eight pint jars of 
preserves. 

Seven pounds of .peaches will yield fifteen glasses of 
marmalade. 

One peck of quinces will yield twenty-one glasses of 
JeUy. 

Four pounds of plums will yield five pint jars of 
preserves. 

Four quarts of crabapples, measured after cutting 
small, will yield ten glasses of jelly. 

(JRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE 

One of the exclusive tea rooms in this city makes a 
specialty of serving a delicious grapefruit marmalade 
with English mufims and tea. This marmalade is made 
at home by a woman who originated the recipe and who 
introduced her wares to the manager of the tea room by 
furnishing him with several jars to sample. It proved 
popular. Her recipe is simple, inexpensive and far supe- 
rior to Scotch orange marmalade. It costs her only four 
cents a glass to make. She retails it to the tea room for 
eighteen cents. 

Following is her recipe : One large grapefruit, one 
large orange, and one large lemon. Shave the fruit with 
a sharp knife exceedingly thin, using everything but the 
seeds and tough white centers. i\Ieasure and add three 
times as much water as fruit. Let it stand twenty-four 
hours ; then measure again and add an equal quantity of 
granulated sugar. Boil together until of the right con- 
sistency to jelly. Put away in glasses. 



78 The Wheel Cook Book 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

A woman who knew how to make preserves sold this 
delicious orange marmalade at a good profit: One 
orange, one grapefruit, one lemon. Remove seeds and 
slice very thin. Add three times as much water as fruit 
and let stand over night. Boil ten minutes and let stand 
till the next morning. Add as much sugar as fruit and 
water combined, and let stand one more night. On the 
third morning boil slowly for two hours, or until the 
mixture jellies in a spoon. The recipe fills twenty ordi- 
nary marmalade glasses. 



THE PEAR 

The Pyrus Communis, or common pear, ranks close 
to the apple in point of family, abundance and general 
utility. The wild pear grows throughout Europe and 
Asia, and is a small, hard fruit, not considered edible. 
But recently it has been cultivated, and whether grafted 
on quince, the mountain ash or wild pear stock, it flour- 
ished, and now the vast majority of pears no longer de- 
serve the epithet ''insipid." The pear is rich in grape 
sugar, in its proportion of iron, its moderate per cent 
of malic, tannic and tartaric acids. It has a large pro- 
portion of potash and phosphoric acid. Such general 
mildness of tonic properties agrees with almost any type 
of stomach, and the laxative quality has a properly 
stimulating effect upon the intestines. The pear may 
be used in almost as many forms as the apple. 



GINGER PEARS 

Make a syrup of eight pounds sugar, one pint water, 
the juice of four lemons and the rinds cut into long, thin 
strips, one-fourth pound ginger root, one-half cup vine- 
gar. Add eight pounds hard pears, peeled, cored and 
quartered and boil for one hour. Mrs. G. Chadwick. 



Jellies, Preserves and Pickles 79 

CHERRY PRESERVES 

Measure your fruit and allow as many measures of 
sugar, but place the fruit in some pan or kettle and pour 
over it one-half the amount of sugar. Let it stand for 
an hour, then put on stove and add the other one-half 
of sugar; let it boil hard for fifteen minutes, and then 
skim out cherries into jar or bowl and boil syrup down. 
Pour over cherries and let stand till next day, then drain 
off syrup, boil down again, add cherries and can pre- 
serves when cherries are heated. Mrs. A. L. Kuehn. 

YELLOW CUCUMBERS PRESERVED 

One-half dozen cucumbers, one quart vinegar, one 
pint water, one pound sugar, six cloves (tied into a piece 
of cloth). Cut cucumbers about one and one-half inch 
in length and soak over night in equal parts of vinegar 
and water. Next morning drain and boil in syrup until 
clear. Fill into^Jars and seal tightly. 

Mrs. L. Kuehn. 

PINEAPPLE MARMALADE 

Peel one pineapple and put through meat chopper. 
Weigh the fruit and add three-fourths the weight in 
sugar with one cup of water. Bring slowly to the boil 
and simmer about twenty minutes or until the consist- 
ency of marmalade. Seal in glasses. 

RHUBARB IN PRESERVES 

Rhubarb and pineapple marmalade : One-half gallon 
rhubarb cut in small pieces and cooked until smooth. 
Add one-half gallon sugar and one large or two small 
pineapples, grated. Cook until thick, about twenty min- 
utes. Put up like jelly. Use one part rhubarb to three 
parts strawberries ; use two parts rhubarb to three parts 
blackberries ; use one part rhubarb to two parts peach or 
pear; use two parts rhubarb to one part pineapple. 

Mrs. H. M. Price. 



80 The Wheel Cook Book 

GRAPE MARMALADE 

Five pounds grapes, five pounds sugar, one pound 
raisins, one quart cranberries, three oranges, one and 
one-half cups water. Cook slowly about one hour. 

Mrs. W. T. Hughes. 

CANNED PEACHES 

Make a syrup of one cup sugar and one quart of 
water. Let it boil and if not syrup add more sugar. 
Pare and halve peaches and cook in syrup till silver fork 
goes through them. Put peaches in jar and fill up with 
syrup. Seal up while hot. 

PICKLES 

In making pickles use none but the best cider vinegar, 
and boil in a porcelain kettle. Never use metal kettles. 
A lump of alum the size of a small nutmeg to a gallon of 
cucumbers, dissolved and added to the vinegar when 
scalding the pickles the first time renders them crisp and 
tender. Do not use too much, because it is injurious; 
follow directions carefully. Keep pickles in a dry, cool 
cellar in glass or a stone jar. Look at them frequently 
and remove all soft ones. If white specks appear in the 
vinegar, drain off and scald. Add a liberal handful of 
sugar to each gallon and pour over the pickles again. 
A little ground horseradish added to the vinegar will 
help preserve it. The nicest way to put up pickles is to 
bottle them, sealing while hot, and keeping in a cool, 
dark place. Never put pickles in a vessel that has had 
any kind of grease in it and never let them freeze. The 
brine for pickles should be strong enough to bear an egg ; 
make it in proportions of a heaping pint of coarse salt 
to one gallon of water. Use coarse salt and test the 
pickles before putting vinegar on. If not salt enough, 
add salt to the brine and allow them to stand until they 
have acquired the proper flavor ; if too salty, cover with 
weak vinegar, let stand two or three days, drain, adding 



Jellies, Preserves and Pickles 81 

strong vinegar, either hot or cold, according to recipes, 
and finish as directed. One way to green pickles is to 
use cabbage leaves, covering bottom, sides and top of 
kettle. It is necessary to use very strong vinegar when 
heating it, as heating weakens it, and it should only be 
brought to the boiling point and then used at once. Keep 
the pickles from the air, and see that the vinegar is at 
least two inches above the top of the pickles in the jar. 
A dry wooden spoon should be used in handling and is 
the only utensil that should touch pickles in the jar. 

SPICED CURRANTS 

Seven pounds currants, three tablespoons cinnamon, 
five pounds brown sugar, three tablespoons cloves, one 
pint vinegar ; pick over currants, wash and stem ; put in 
preserving kettle, add vinegar, sugar and spices tied in 
bag ; heat to ^boiling point, then cook slowly about one 
and one-half hours. Fill jars and keep for winter use 
to serve with cold meats. 

SPICED VINEGAR FOR PICKLES 

One gallon of vinegar, one pound of sugar, one table- 
spoon allspice, one tablespoon black pepper, one table- 
spoon cinnamon, three tablespoons mustard seed, three 
tablespoons celery seed, two tablespoons salt, one table- 
spoon mace, three onions chopped fine, one teacup grated 
horseradish. 

MIXED PICKLES 

Wash and drain pickles ; put in a jar with alternate 
layers of green tomatoes and green peppers. Cover with 
boiling hot brine made in the proportion of one pint of 
coarse salt to one gallon of water. Let stand twenty- 
four hours. Drain, rinse in cold water and pour over 
them ''spiced vinegar," Have this boiling hot. Add a 
few roots of sliced horseradish before pouring on the 
vinegar. 



82 The Wheel Cook Book 

PICKLED PEARS 

(Special Recipe) 

To each six pounds of pears allow a pint of cider — 
or wine — vinegar, three pounds of sugar and a teaspoon 
each of cinnamon, cloves and ginger (in thin bag). Let 
sugar, vinegar and spices boil up and place in the result- 
ing syrup the peeled pears, a few at a time. Cook until 
tender ; place pears in a crock ; pour over them the vine- 
gar and let stand three days. Pour off the syrup and boil 
it down; then pour over the pears again (having placed 
the pears in jars), remove spice bag and seal. If tart- 
ness is desired, part of the sugar may be omitted. 

PICKLED WATERMELON RIND 

(Special Recipe) 

Remove thick paring from watermelon rind, cut out 
all the pink part; then cut in pieces of uniform size. 
Cook until soft in boiling water, then drain. To every 
seven pounds of rind add six cups brown sugar, three 
cups vinegar, one ounce stick cinnamon, two teaspoons 
whole cloves. Bring this slowly to the boiling point, then 
let it simmer two hours. Pack in jars, fill jars to over- 
flowing and adjust rubbers, seal at once. 

CAULIFLOWER PICKLES 

(By Request) 

Choose such cauliflower as are perfect and full size, 
cut away all the leaves and pull away the flowers by 
bunches. Soak in brine for two days, drain, and put in 
bottles with whole black pepper, allspice and stick cinna- 
mon. Boil vinegar and pour over the cauliflower and 
seal while hot. An equal quantity of small white onions 
may be added before the vinegar is poured on. 



Jellies, Preserves and Pickles S3 

STUFFED PEPPER MANGOES 

Cut the tops from one dozen green peppers, remove 
seeds and save tops. Stand peppers upright in a tub, put 
a teaspoon of salt in each and soak twenty-four hours, 
then drain and rinse. Cut one large head of cabbage 
on a cabbage cutter, add to it half teaspoon of ground 
cloves, the same of ground allspice, an ounce of whole 
mustard and a tablespoon of salt. Mix thoroughly. 
Stuff the peppers with this mixture, put on tops and tie 
tightly. Stand upright in a stone jar and cover with hot 
vinegar. A half cup of chopped horseradish or a hand- 
ful of nasturtium seeds may be added to prevent vine- 
gar from molding. 

RELISH 

Three dill pickles, one stalk celery, one onion, one 
teaspoon mustard. Chop fine pickles, celery and onion, 
add mustard ai3d salt, pepper and vinegar to taste. Serve 
with roasts. Prepare for table as you need it. 

Mrs. L. Kuehn. 

CORN RELISH 

Ten cups corn cut from cob, ten cups cabbage 
chopped, three cups white sugar, five red peppers, three 
tablespoons salt, four tablespoons white mustard seed, 
two tablespoons celery seed, one-half gallon vinegar. Mix 
and cook one-half hour, stirring every few minutes. 

Mrs. Towers. 

TOMATO RELISH 

One peck ripe tomatoes, six large onions, two large 
green peppers, two cups celery, one cup horseradish, two 
ounces white mustard seed, one-half cup salt, two cups 
sugar, one quart vinegar. Chop tomatoes fine, put in 
jelly bag to drain over night. Grind onions, peppers, 
horseradish, but chop the celery. Mix all together, cold ; 
do not heat. Seal in jars. Hattie Farber. 



84 The Wheel Cook Book 

INDIA RELISH 

One-half peck green tomatoes, six cucumbers, one 
small cabbage, three large Spanish onions, three bunches 
celery, four green peppers ; chop fine ; add one cup salt, 
let stand twelve hours, then drain thoroughly; add one- 
half cup mustard seed, one-half cup celery seed, one and 
one-half cups brown sugar, two quarts vinegar ; boil un- 
til tender. ]\Irs. R. R. Rutledge. 

117 Cooper Street, Peoria, 111. 

TOMATO RELISH 

One pint ripe tomatoes, one cup celery, six white 
onions, two red peppers, all chopped fine separately ; one 
ounce mustard seed, two pounds brown sugar, one-half 
cup salt. Chop celery, tomatoes, onions and sprinkle 
with salt. Let stand twenty-four hours. Heat vinegar 
and sugar and let cool. Drain tomatoes and other in- 
gredients, mix in mustard seed and put on vinegar. Do 
not cook. 

PEPPER RELISH 

Twelve green peppers, twelve red peppers, twelve 
onions. Remove seeds and chop together ; add four table- 
spoons of salt; cover with boiling water and let stand 
until cold. Put in colander, drain, cover again with cold 
water, set on stove and let come to a boil. Drain again. 
Heat three pints of vinegar, one and one-half cups sugar. 
Put peppers and onions into this and let come to a boil ; 
then bottle. IVIrs. W. T. Hughes. 

CRABAPPLE CATSUP 

Four pounds crabs, cooked and strained through fine 
colander, three pounds sugar, two level tablespoons cin- 
namon, two level tablespoons allspice ; two level table- 
spoons cloves, two level tablespoons salt, one saltspoon 
pepper, one teaspoon vinegar. Boil slowly till thick, 
about two hours. IMes. Darling. 



Jellies, Preserves and Pickles 85 

TOMATO CATSUP 

One bushel tomatoes, boil until soft, squeeze them 
through a fine wire sieve and add half gallon of vinegar, 
three half pints of salt, two ounces of cloves, quarter of 
a pound of allspice, three ounces of cayenne pepper, 
three tablespoons black pepper and five heads of garlic, 
skinned and separated. Mix together and boil about 
three hours, or until reduced to about one-half, then bot- 
tle without straining. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

Take one bushel of firm ripe tomatoes — the Fiji 
Island, known by their pink or purple color, and the 
''Trophy," are the best and richest varieties for catsup 
and canning. Wipe them off nicely with a damp cloth, 
cut out the cores, and put them in a porcelain-lined iron 
kettle or a genuine bell-metal one. Place over the fire, 
and pour over them about three pints of water, throw in 
two large handfuls of peach leaves, with ten or twelve 
onions or shallots cut fine. Boil until the tomatoes are 
done, which will take about two hours; then strain 
through a coarse-mesh sieve, pour the liquid back again 
into the boiling kettle and add half a gallon of good 
strong cider vinegar; have ready two ounces ground 
spice, two ounces ground black pepper, two ounces mus- 
tard (either ground or in the seed, as you prefer), one 
ounce ground cloves, two grated nutmegs, two pounds 
light brown sugar, and one pint of salt; mix these in- 
gredients well together before putting in the boiler ; then 
boil two hours, stirring continually to prevent burning. 
If you like the catsup "hot," add cayenne pepper to 
your taste. "When cool, fill bottles (reeded bottles are the 
nicest, they can be procured at the house furnisher's, and 
a set with last some time ; they look better than ones of 
all sizes and styles). Cork and seal with bottle-wax so 
as to exclude the air. Keep in a cool, dry place for 
future use. This recipe is preferred to all others — it 
has been used for years. It keeps well, and has been pro- 
nounced by competent judges superior to all others. 



86 The Wheel Cook Book 

CANNED SWEET PEPPERS 

Nothing can take the place of canned sweet peppers 
or pimentoes to the lover of salads, sand^viches, etc. 
Wash carefully and with a sharp knife slit the side open 
and remove the seed pod and stem of each pepper. Then 
place in a deep bowl and pour boiling water over them. 
Let stand three minutes, then repeat the process three 
times, draining well the last time. Pack in jars and fill 
with boiling vinegar which has been diluted half with 
water and to each quart of the vinegar add a teaspoon 
each of salt and sugar. Seal and set in a cool place. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

Two quarts small onions, six sour pickles, two quarts 
green tomatoes, two quarts wax beans, four red peppers, 
three heads cauliflower (picked to pieces). Put all to- 
gether (except pickles) and cover with one cup of salt 
and one gallon of water ; let stand over night, then scald 
in brine and drain ; add pickles ; one tablespoon tumeric 
powder, four tablespoons mustard, one cup flour, three 
cups white sugar. Mix together and add two quarts 
vinegar. Boil until thick, then mix in the above in- 
gredients. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

One quart small cucumbers, one quart large cucum- 
bers sliced, one quart green tomatoes sliced, one quart 
button onions, one large cauliflower cut into small pieces. 
Make brine of four quarts water and a scant pint of salt. 
Pour over all and let stand twenty-four hours. Heat and 
drain. Mix one cup flour, six tablespoons of dry mus- 
tard, one tablespoon tumeric with enough cold vinegar 
to make a smooth paste ; add one cup sugar and enough 
vinegar to make two quarts in all. Boil until thick, 
stirring constantly. ^lix with pickles. 

Eleanor Q. Mitchell. 



Jellies, Preserves and Pickles 87 

CHILI SAUCE 

One peck tomatoes, nine onions (medium size), one 
quart vinegar, one and one-half cups sugar, one-fourth 
cup salt, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, 
one and one-half teaspoon allspice, one nutmeg (grated). 
Boil three hours. Put each quantity of cinnamon, cloves 
and allspice into piece of cloth. ^Irs. L. Kuehn. 

CHILI SAUCE 

One dozen medium-sized ripe tomatoes, one pepper 
chopped fine, one onion chopped fine, two cups vinegar, 
three tablespoons sugar, one tablespoon salt, two tea- 
spoons cloves, two teaspoons cinnamon, two teaspoons all- 
spice, two teaspoons grated nutmeg. Peel tomatoes and 
slice; cook with remaining ingredients for two and one- 
half hours. 

OIL PICKLES 

One hundred small cucumbers (sliced), three pints 
small onions (peeled), two scant cups salt (let stand 
three hours) ; rinse and add two cups olive oil, one ounce 
ground white pepper, one ounce celery seed, two ounces 
white mustard seed, alum size walnut. Cover with vine- 
gar and let stand until you wish to use ; good as long as 
it lasts. If small cucumbers and onions are not in mar- 
ket, large ones may be used if cut many times length- 
wise and peeled. Makes about three or four quarts. 

Myrtle M. Rogers. 



88 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 89 



90 The Wheel Cook Book 



Pies, Cookies and Doughnuts 

PIE CRUST— FOR ONE PIE 

''Two to five and a pinch of salt" (commit to mem- 
ory). Two tablespoons of lard or crisco, five tablespoons 
of flour, one-half teaspoon salt. Rub together and add 
four tablespoons of cold water; stir all (use a knife). 
Put flour on board and roll out three-fifths of dough for 
first crust, and with trimmings enough is left for top 
crust. Myrtle Carroll. 



CHOCOLATE PIE 

Bake crust first in a deep pan. One pint sweet milk 
heated to near boiling with one square of Baker's choco- 
late, one refunded tablespoon cornstarch dissolved in a 
little cold milk, yolks of two eggs, one-half cup granu- 
lated sugar, all beaten together, then added to the hot 
milk. Stir until it is well cooked. Pour into crust. 
Beat whites of two eggs well, add two tablespoons granu- 
lated sugar, beat well and spread over top of pie. Brown 
in a moderate oven. Mrs. Parsal. 



COCOANUT CREAM PIE 

Make puff paste; bake on inverted tin; prick paste 
with fork to avoid bubbles. Filling (small pie) : Cook in 
double boiler; one pint milk, scald; add yolks of three 
eggs ; mix with one-half tablespoon cornstarch, one table- 
spoon flour, one-half small cup sugar, two heaping table- 
spoons cocoanut, vanilla. 

Boil same as custard. When paste is baked, put in 
the custard. Whip whites of the eggs with one spoon con- 
fectioner's sugar. Spread over custard and sprinkle top 
with cocoanut. Return to oven and bake to a golden 
brown. 

91 



92 The Wheel Cook Book 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

Four tablespoons of chocolate, yolks of two eggs, six 
heaping tablespoons sugar, two tablespoons of flour or 
one of cornstarch, two cups of hot water. When done 
boiling, flavor with vanilla. Bake crust, put in filling 
and ice with whites of eggs and brown in oven. 

IVIiss Amelia Holle, 
Vallonia, Ind., R. R. No. 1. 

BEST SQUASH PIES 

One can squash, one and one-half cups sugar, four 
eggs (save out whites of two), two tablespoons molasses, 
two teaspoons ginger, two teaspoons cinnamon, one- 
fourth teaspoon salt, three cups milk. Meringue of the 
two whites or use more if wanted thick. Two pies. 

Jennie W. Westcott. 

CARAMEL PIE 

One pint sweet milk, one cup brown sugar, yolks of 
two eggs, one heaping tablespoon flour, one teaspoon 
vanilla, small piece butter. Scald milk and sugar to- 
gether, stirring a little until sugar is dissolved, then add 
beaten yolks and flour moistened with a little milk. When 
thick remove from fire, add butter, and when cool put 
in vanilla. Beat whites of eggs stiff, adding a little sugar 
and vanilla, bake pie in cooked crust, put meringue over 
top, and brown lightly. 

LEMON CREAM PIE 

Line tin with paste and bake; yolks four large eggs 
well beaten, add one-half cup sugar, juice of one and 
one-half lemons, grated rind of one, boil until thick, 
stirring constantly. Remove from fire and add the whites 
of two eggs well beaten. Fill paste. Make meringue of 
the remaining two whites, three tablespoons granulated 
sugar ; brown in oven. For large pie use five eggs, sav- 
ing three whites for the meringue. 

Mrs. Fred W. Lamb. 



Pies, Cookies and Doughnuts 93 

CREAM PIE FILLING 

Beat the yoLks of three eggs with half a cup of sugar 
and a tablespoon of soft butter; beat again, then stir a 
cup of cream into the other ingredients, also a saltspoon 
of salt. Bake in an open crust and cover with a 
meringue. 

LEMON PIE 

One lemon, one cup sugar, two teaspoons flour, four 
eggs (beaten separately), small piece of butter; grate 
rind of lemon, squeeze juice into cup and add enough 
water to make cup half full. Beat yolks and sugar to- 
gether, add part of lemon juice and let come to boil. 
Mix flour in remaining juice and stir into same. Re- 
move from stove and stir in beaten whites of three eggs. 
Bake crust and when custard is cold pour into crust. 
Beat remaining white and frost. Mrs. W. J. Warr. 

LEMON CREAM PIE 

Bake crust first in deep pan ; one pint milk heated to 
near boiling, one large tablespoon cornstarch dissolved in 
a little cold milk, yolks of two eggs, one-half cup granu- 
lated sugar and the grated rind of one lemon, all beaten 
together. Stir into the hot milk. When it is well cooked 
add the juice of one lemon. Cook for a while, then pour 
into crust. Beat whites of two eggs stiff, then add two 
tablespoons granulated sugar ; beat well and spread over 
top of pie. Brown in a moderate oven. Mrs. Parsal. 

MAPLE CREAM PIE 

Two cups scalded milk, one cup brown sugar or 
maple sugar, one-third cup flour, pinch salt, two eggs. 
Mix sugar, flour and salt, to this add heated milk; cook 
until smooth, then add yolks of eggs well beaten; cook 
for a few minutes until it thickens, then cook about a 
half hour. Make a meringue of the whites of the eggs 
and cover the top ; brown. Mrs. Darling. 



94 The Wheel Cook Book 

MOCK MINCE FOR PIES 

Pulverize six soda crackers, one cup brown sugar, one 
cup molasses, one-half cup vinegar, one-half cup butter, 
one cup chopped raisins, one cup boiling water, one tea- 
spoon cloves, one teaspoon allspice, little pepper, two tea- 
spoons cinnamon. Stir all together. Makes three pies. 
Any sweet pickle juice, or leftover sauce or jelly is good 
to add. Myrtle M. Rogers. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

One cup cranberries cut in two, one and one-third 
cups sugar, one-half cup raisins chopped, one tablespoon 
flour, one-half cup hot water, one teaspoon vanilla. Mix 
all together and bake in deep crust. 

Kindness op Mrs. M. H. 

CURRANT PIE WITH MERINGUE 

Three cups mashed ripe currants, three cups sugar, 
four egg yolks, two tablespoons water, three teaspoons 
flour. Beat yolks, then mix all together. Put into rich 
crust and bake. Use the whites for meringue. 

Mrs. Kate L. Ballard. 

RAISIN PIE 

One-pound package seedless raisins. Wash and put 
on stove covered with cold water ; sweeten and add juice 
of one or more lemons if you like it tart ; add thickening 
and boil three to flve minutes ; pour in crust and put on 
a top crust and bake one-half hour. This makes two 
large or three small pies. 

ALMOND COOKIES 

Two cups syrup, one cup butter, one cup of lard, two 
teaspoons each cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, one-fourth 
pound citron (chopped), one-half pound of almonds 
(chopped), three cups of sugar, four eggs, two teaspoons 
of baking powder; rind and juice of one lemon; flour 
enough to roll. Mrs. A. S. Abbott. 



Pies, Cookies and Doughnuts 95 

BROWNIES 

One cup sugar, one-half cup melted butter, one-half 
cup walnut meats (chopped), one-half cup flour, two 
eggs, two squares of Baker's chocolate (melted), one 
teaspoon vanilla. Bake in moderate oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. When cool cut into strips about an inch 
wide. ' Mrs. J. A. Bell. 

COOKIES 

One cup lard (level), one and one-half cups sugar, 
pinch salt, two eggs (beaten separately), three table- 
spoons sour cream, one small teaspoon soda, nutmeg, 
flour. Roll quite thin and have quite a warm oven. 

Mrs. Carroll. 

COOKIES 

One cup sugar, one cup butter or half lard, half but- 
ter, three cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, two 
eggs, four tablespoons sweet milk. Mix sugar, butter 
and baking powder into the flour dry. Then add eggs 
and milk. Batter will be stiffer than cake dough. Roll 
thin, cut and bake in warm oven. 

OATMEAL WAFERS 

One cup granulated sugar, one tablespoon melted 
butter, two eggs well beaten, two and one-half cups rolled 
oatmeal, one teaspoon B. P. salt, one teaspoon (or less) 
almond extract. Bake in a slow oven. Very dainty. 

Mrs. Frank E. Ballard. 

OATMEAL RAISIN COOKIES 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one cup 
raisins, one cup flour, one teaspoon baking powder, 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, two and one-half 
cups of oatmeal. Drop in pan from spoon. 

Mrs. J. A. Bell. 



96 The Wheel Cook Book 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

Put a teaspoon of soda into a large cup; add four 
tablespoons shortening, three tablespoons hot water and 
fill the cup with good molasses. Turn into a bowl ; add 
one-half cup sugar, a little salt, and one level teaspoon 
each of ginger and cinnamon. Put in flour to make a 
dough not too stiff. Roll out, cut and bake in a quick 
oven. These cookies are hard and brittle. 

Mrs. Parsali. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

One cup sugar, one cup butter and lard mixed or 
any prepared shortening, two eggs, a pinch of salt, one 
and one-half cups sour cream (or sour milk), with three- 
fourths teaspoon of soda dissolved in it, two cups rolled 
oats, one cup raisins, two cups flour, one teaspoon cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoon cloves. Mix in order given and 
drop from a teaspoon on well-greased tins. Bake in a 
quick oven. E. McD. 

SUGAR COOKIES 

One cup sour cream, two eggs, two cups sugar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, one-half cup butter, two teaspoons 
baking powder, flour enough to roll. Cut and bake on 
well-greased tins in hot oven. 

THIN RICH COOKIES 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs, well beaten. 
Flour, enough to roll ; roll thin and sprinkle with sugar. 
Bake in moderate oven. Mrs. Wharton Plummer. 

MASHED POTATO DOUGHNUTS 

Boil and mash enough potatoes to make one cup full. 
Beat in one teaspoon butter, one cup sugar, one cup milk, 
two beaten eggs, three cups flour, three teaspoons bak- 
ing powder. Roll and cut. Fry in deep lard. 

Mrs. J. P. Black. 



Pies, Cookies and Doughnuts 97 

DATE BARS 

One cup brown sugar, one large half cup butter, one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon lemon extract, three 
eggs beaten separately, one cup flour measured before 
sifting, one teaspoon baking powder, one cup walnut 
meats, one cup dates chopped. Bake in shallow pan in 
moderate oven, one-half hour. When cold, cut in strips 
and roll in powdered sugar. Mrs. Schultz. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
three eggs, nutmeg and salt to taste, three tablespoons of 
melted butter, one teaspoon of baking powder. 

Mrs. H. M. Anderson. 

GOOD DOUGHNUTS 

Two eggs, well beaten; one cup sugar, one cup cream, 
one-half cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder. Flour 
to make stiff batter, flavor with nutmeg. Fry in deep 
boiling fat. Mrs. Plummer. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, nutmeg to taste, 
three tablespoons butter, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Flour so they will knead well. Mrs. Carpenter. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Cream one cup sugar, two tablespoons unmelted lard, 
two eggs, one-half teaspoon grated nutmeg, one and three- 
fourths cups sweet milk, one-fourth tablespoon salt, one 
teaspoon baking soda, two teaspoons cream tartar. Flour 
to roll. Fry in hot fat. Mrs. Conn. 



98 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 99 



100 The Wheel Cook Book 



Puddings and Other Desserts 

DARK SECRET PUDDING 

One cup sugar, three eggs, three tablespoons flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder, one cup dates cut fine, one 
cup walnut meats cut fine. Bake one-half hour in loaf. 
"When cold break up and serve with two oranges and 
two bananas sliced, that have stood awhile with a little 
sugar over them. Put whipped cream over all. 

Mrs. Parsal. 

DATE PUDDING 

One cup dark brown sugar, one cup sour milk, one 
pound stoned and chopped dates, one teaspoon soda, spice 
to suit taste, graham flour, enough to make rather stiff. 
Dredge dates -in wheat flour. Add a little salt. Steam 
two hours. Eaten with any kind of sauce, it will do in 
place of cake, and will keep two months in a dry, cool 
place in a jar. Steam slowly, as you want it. 

OATMEAL PUDDING 

One-half cup of shortening, one cup of brown sugar, 
one cup of sour milk, one teaspoon of baking soda, one 
cup raisins, one cup of flour, two cups of oatmeal, a 
little nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves. Steam one hour. 

IVIrs. Babson. 

CRUMB PUDDING 

One cup bread crumbs, one cup flour, one cup sugar, 
one egg, one cup each of currants and raisins, one cup 
of nuts (if desired), one cup of boiling water, one tea- 
spoon each of cinnamon and cloves, one teaspoon of 
soda, a pinch of salt. Steam three hours. Serve hot 
with ''hard sauce.'' Keeps well. Steam as you need 
it. Mrs. F. D. Yeaton. 

101 





102 The Wheel Cook Book 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Put one pint milk into a double boiler. Separate four 
eggs and beat the whites to a very stiff froth. Moisten 
four even tablespoons of com starch with cold milk; 
stir this into the hot milk ; stir and cook until thick and 
smooth. Add half cup of sugar and two ounces Baker's 
chocolate, grated ; take from the fire and stir in the well 
beaten whites of the eggs; turn into a mold and stand 
away to harden. Beat the yolks of the eggs with four 
tablespoons sugar and add them to a pint of scalding 
milk ; cook as you would soft custard ; add a teaspoon of 
vanilla and turn out to cool. Serve over the pudding. 

Mrs. Parsal. 



COTTAGE PUDDING 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup milk, 
two cups flour with two and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, pinch salt, lemon extract. Bake in patty pans. 
Makes one dozen. 

SAUCE 

One tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour. Blend 
flour with melted butter, add boiling water till right 
thickness, season with lemon juice and sugar to taste. 

Myrtle M. Rogers. 



RASPBERRY SHORTCAKE (Special recipe) 

Sift one quart of flour with two teaspoons of baking 
powder and one teaspoon of salt. Drop in two-thirds 
of a cup of butter and mix with sweet milk to a soft 
dough. Roll out in two quite thin cakes, butter one and 
lay the other on it. Bake in a quick oven. When 
baked, separate the cake and spread well with butter. 
Mix ripe raspberries with plenty of sugar and either 
plain or whipped cream. Spread between layers and 
cover top. 



Puddings and Other Desserts 103 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Beat together one teacup sugar and one tablespoon 
butter ; beat three eggs very light and add ; sift together 
two teacups flour and a heaping teaspoon baking powder 
with a little salt and stir in, using enough milk or cream 
to make it roll out easily. Bake in deep tin plates. With 
three pints of strawberries mix one teacup of sugar and 
spread on the cake. The top layer of strawberries may 
be covered with a meringue made with a tablespoon of 
powdered sugar and the white of an egg. 

LEMON PUDDING 

One quart of boiling water. Four tablespoons com 
starch dissolved in a little cold water. Add gradually 
boiling water and cook until thick. Add three cups 
sugar, the grated rind of one lemon and juice of three 
lemons. Cook until sugar is dissolved. When cold, add 
beaten white^ of four eggs and beat until thick. Set 
on ice to cool and eat with soft custard made with yolks 
of four eggs, one pint of milk and one-half cup sugar, 
a little salt, or serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Parsal. 

PEACH PUDDING 

Make a batter of one cup flour, one heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder, one heaping tablespoon of butter, 
and milk to mix. Pour this over sliced peaches sweetened 
with one-half cup sugar. Bake thirty minutes, turn out 
on a plate and serve with cream. May use apples or 
other fruits. Mrs. H. M. Price. 

BREAD PUDDING 

Break six thin slices of bread in pan, pour over 
quart of milk, let get hot, yolks of seven eggs, beat with 
cup of sugar, stir in milk and bread, flavor to taste, beat 
six whites, tablespoon of sugar to one white, put over 
pudding and brown. Mrs. Mershon. 




104 The Wheel Cook Book 

GERMAN PEACH PUDDING 

Separate two eggs, beat the yolks, add a cup of milk, 
half a teaspoon salt and a tablespoon melted butter. 
Mix and beat in a cup and half of flour that has been 
sifted with three level teaspoons baking powder. Stir 
in carefully the well beaten whites and pour the batter 
into a shallow greased pan. Put halves of peaches over 
the top, sprinkle with six tablespoons of granulated sugar 
and bake in quick oven for half an hour. Serve warm 
with cream or hard sauce. 

REBECCA PUDDING 

Four cups scalded milk, one-half cup cornstarch, one- 
quarter cup sugar, one-quarter teaspoon salt, one-half 
cup cold milk, one teaspoon vaniUa, whites three eggs. 
Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt; dilute with cold milk; 
add scalded milk and stir constantly. Cook until thick, 
stirring constantly. Add whites of eggs, beaten stiff, 
and flavoring. Mold, chill and serve with custard sauce 
or wine sauce. 

ORANGE CUSTARD 

Slice oranges in about eight sherbert glasses. Sweeten 
well. Make a custard with one pint milk, yolks of two 
eggs, one tablespoon cornstarch mixed with a little milk, 
small piece butter, two tablespoons sugar. Boil until 
thick, stirring constantly. Pour while boiling hot on 
oranges. Beat whites of eggs stiff. Add two table- 
spoons sugar. Put over custard. Serve cold. 

Mrs. R. C. Davis. 

GRAHAM PUDDING 

One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one cup gra- 
ham flour, one cup raisins, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
teaspoon soda, one q^^. Steam two hours. 

Mrs. L. B. Reed. 




Puddings and Other Desserts 105 

RICE PUDDING 

One third cup of rice, one quart cold mUk, one-half 
cup sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, one tablespoon butter. 
Put all together in a pudding dish and cook slowly one 
hour or more until rice is soft. Mrs. Parsal. 

RICE COCOANUT PUDDING FOR FOUR PEOPLE 

One cup rice, one-half cup cocoanut, two tablespoons 
sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, one cup milk, two eggs. Boil 
the rice, add the ingredients named and bake ten minutes. 

Mrs. Smith. 

BROWN BETTY 

Chop fine two cups of tart apples. Butter a baking 
dish and place on it a layer of apples, sprinkling with 
cinnamon, sugar and butter. Place on this a layer of the 
crumbs, alternating with the apple till dish is three- 
fourths full, ^leaving bread crumbs on top. Add no 
water, but cover tight and steam three quarters of an 
hour in moderate oven when remove cover and quickly 
brown. Serve with milk or sweet sauce. 

GELATINE BLANC MANGE 

One-half box Knox gelatine dissolved in three cups 
of hot milk. Beat yolks of three eggs with three-fourths 
cup of sugar and pinch of salt, add to the hot milk. Take 
from the stove and fold in the beaten whites of three 
eggs. Flavor with vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE GELATINE PUDDING 

Enough for four people. 

One pint milk, two eggs, two tablespoons sugar, one 
bar Baker's chocolate, one envelope Knox's gelatine. 
Put milk in double boiler with sugar and grated choco- 
late. When hot, add beaten yolks, then add gelatine, 
which has been dissolved in one-half glass water. Take 
off the stove, add beaten whites of eggs and pour into a 
mold. It can be served with whipped cream or plain 
cream. Mrs. Dudley Smith. 



106 The Wheel Cook Book 

PRUNE TAPIOCA 

Soak one pound prunes in cold water over night. 
Then cook until tender, stone and chop fine, save the 
juice. Into a double boiler put three cups sweet milk, 
one cup sugar and two heaping tablespoons of minute 
tapioca. Cook one hour, then add chopped prunes and 
one cup of juice and cook an hour longer. Serve with 
whipped cream. Eleanor Quaid Mitchell. 

PRUNE WHIP 

One pound prunes, one cup sugar, four whites of 
eggs. Soak prunes over night. Cook, then stone and 
run through grinder. Add cup sugar to chopped prunes. 
Beat whites of eggs stiff and fold carefully into prunes 
when cool. Bake in moderate oven about twenty minutes. 
Serve cold with whipped cream. Mrs. R. S. Davis. 

PRUNE WHIP 

One jar thick cream, one-half pound prunes, two 
tablespoons powdered sugar. Soak prunes over night 
in water to cover and cook in same water until very 
tender. Force pulp through a strainer or prunes may be 
chopped very fine. Beat cream stiff. Sweeten and fold 
in prune mixture. Serve very cold with chopped nuts 
and garnish with whipped cream. Serve five people. 

Grace Howe Thomas. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Pare a pineapple and cut in one-quarter-inch slices, 
remove hard centers, sprinkle with powdered sugar, set 
aside one hour in a cool place ; drain, spread on serving 
dish, pile red raspberries in center, pour over syrup 
drained from pineapple, sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and serve. 

APPLE WHIP 

One white of egg, one large apple grated, three- 
fourths cup sugar, beat until stiff. Mrs. Geo. B. Gale. 



Puddings and Other Desserts 107 

APPLE SNOW 

Pare, core and bring to boil in as little water as 
possible six tart apples, cool and strain, beat well and 
add the well-whipped whites of three eggs, sweeten to 
taste and beat thoroughly until a dish of snow is the 
result, flavor with lemon or vanilla, or add the grated 
rind of a lemon ; serve with sweetened cream. Or, make 
custard of yolks, sugar, and a pint milk, place in a dish, 
and drop the froth on it in large flakes. — Selected. 

BAKED PEARS 

Pare and core large pears; stuff with seeded dates, 
raisins, or chopped nuts, with some tart marmalade of 
other fruit, or shredded cocoanut; place close together 
in pan and bake slowly till tender, without sugar, only 
enough moisture to prevent burning. When done chill 
and serve with either a simple custard or melted marsh- 
mallows. 

GRAPE PARFAIT 

One-third cup grape juice, three-fourths cup sugar. 
Boil until it threads, then pour on beaten whites of two 
eggs ; beat occasionally until cold. Whip one pint bottle 
of cream and add one-half cup grape juice and juice of 
one lemon. Beat all together, mold and pack in ice and 
salt. Serve five or six. Mrs. J. A. Bell. 

PINEAPPLE PARFAIT 

Boil together one-half cup sugar and one-half cup 
water. When cold add well beaten yolks of six eggs and 
place in a double boiler, stir until as thick as cream. 
Remove from the fire and whip until cold. When quite 
cold add one pint stiffly whipped cream, one cup chopped 
pineapple and a little vanilla. Put at once in freezer and 
let stand about four hours. 



108 The Wheel Cook Book 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

Two cups milk, two tablespoons com starch, two cups 
coffee A sugar (caramelized), one cup nuts. Flavor with 
vanilla when cold and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Geo. B. Gale. 

PEACH MERINGUE 

Select firm, but ripe peaches. Peel, cut in halves 
and place on serving dish. Pile lightly on top a 
meringue made of beaten egg whites and powdered sugar. 
Chill thoroughly and serve. Baked apples may be 
served in the same way. 

MARSH]\IALLOW DESSERT (For four people) 

Marshmallows, ten cents, one-half pint whipping 
cream, any kind of fruits such as pineapple, straw- 
berries, red raspberries, candied cherries, bananas; 
English walnuts, tablespoon sugar. Whip the cream, 
and stir in the marshmallows. Let stand couple of hours 
in cold place. Just before serving stir in chopped fruits 
or whole berries, also nuts and sugar. Mrs. Smith. 

]\LA.RSHMALLOW CREAM 

Dissolve one tablespoon of granulated gelatine in one- 
half cup of cold water, stirring over the fire until dis- 
solved, then add one-half cup cold water. Beat the 
whites of four eggs until very light and pour the dis- 
solved gelatine very slowly into the beaten whites, beat- 
ing all the time; sprinkle one cup of sugar over the 
mixture and add one teaspoon of orange extract and 
beat until well mixed ; tint one-third of the mixture pink 
with coloring paste, sprinkle chopped pecan nuts over 
it, add a layer of white and more nut meats, then the 
last layer tinted lavender or green. Serve with whipped 
cream flavored with vanilla, sweetened a little. Care 
must be taken not to let gelatine get cold as it will 
stiffen and the layers will not be smooth. 

'Mrs. Albert Welles. 



Puddings and Other Desserts 109 

GERMAN CREAM 

One quart milk, scald, add three tablespoons corn 
starch, one-half cup sugar, vanilla to taste. Before set 
to cool, add one-fourth package Jello (dissolved), peach 
flavor. When these two have been thoroughly beaten 
together and cooled, add beaten white of an egg, with 
one bottle whipped cream, and one tablespoon confec- 
tioners' sugar. Whip all together with dover beater. 
Serve in frappe cups with wafers or lady fingers. 

Mrs. Kirk Austin. 

PINEAPPLE FOAM 

One cup shredded pineapple, one cup powdered sugar, 
two whites of eggs (well beaten), one cup whipped 
cream. All the above will serve about six. 

MARSHMALLOW PINEAPPLE CREAM 

One can pineapple, one-half pound marshmallows, 
one-half pint cream to whip. Drain juice from pine- 
apple on marshmallows that have been cut up. Let 
stand over night. Next morning add the chopped pine- 
apple and whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE GELATINE 

Soak two level tablespoons of gelatine in one-half 
cup of cold water. When soft add one-half cup of hot 
water. Stir till dissolved and then pour this into one 
large can of grated pineapple. Beat till weU mixed, 
and when cold and beginning to stiffen, beat in one pint 
of cream, whipped. Set in a cool place till ready to 
serve. 

LEMON JELLY 

One apple, grated ; one lemon, juice and grated rind ; 
one cup sugar, yolks of three eggs. Boil until like 
cream. One teaspoon butter, add last. 

Mrs. C. Candy. 



110 The Wheel Cook Book 

ORANGE CREAM 

One heaping tablespoon Knox Gelatine, two oranges, 
One-half pint whipping cream, one cup sugar, three 
eggs. Soak one heaping tablespoon Knox Gelatine in 
one cup cold water one hour. Squeeze juice two oranges, 
grated rind of one, strain ; then add one cup sugar. Beat 
yolks three eggs until light. Add one cup hot water to 
gelatine, then add juice of oranges and sugar. Pour 
this liquid little by little on the beaten yolks, stirring 
constantly. Heat again, continue stirring until custard 
reaches boiling point, remove and set aside to cool. When 
thickening add one half pint whipped cream. 

Mrs. Fred W. Lamb. 



Additional Recipes 111 



112 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 113 



114 The Wheel Cook Book 



Sauces and Salad Dressings 

PUDDING SAUCE— HARD SAUCE 

Two heaping tablespoons butter, ten tablespoons 
granulated sugar rubbed to a cream with butter. Add 
the stiffly beaten white of one egg. Flavor with any- 
thing you wish. Mrs. F. D. Yeaton. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

One cup sugar, three teaspoons com starch, one and 
one-half cups of water, juice and rind of a lemon. Cook 
until thick. Mrs. L. Kuehn. 

WHITE OR CREAM SAUCE 

Put one tablespoon each of butter and flour in sauce- 
pan over fire."' When mixed without browning, add one- 
half teaspoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon white pepper, 
then, gradually, one cup hot milk. Stir until smoothly 
thickened, and simmer for three minutes. 

DRAWN BUTTER 

One-half cup butter, two tablespoons flour; rub 
thoroughly together, then stir into pint boiling water; 
little salt, parsley if wished. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Make one cup brown sauce, using equal quantities 
stock and liquor from canned mushrooms. Season, add 
two tablespoons chopped mushrooms, simmer ^ve 
minutes. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Three tablespoons olive oil, one tablespoon vinegar, 
one pinch of salt, a little paprika. Mix in order given, 
add vinegar slowly. 

115 



116 The Wheel Cook Booh 

MINT SAUCE 

Pick the leaves from the stems, wash them thoroughly 
and wring them dry in a cloth. Chop as fine as saw- 
dust, sprinkle powdered sugar over thickly, and barely 
cover with vinegar. If any vinegar rests in the bottom 
of the sauce-boat, it should be thrown away. Make this 
sauce half an hour before using, and set it on the ice. 
Strain, if you prefer. 

MILLIONAIRE DRESSING 

One yolk of ^gg, work in slowly one cup olive oil. 
Add one tablespoon catsup, two teaspoons chili sauce, 
two chopped pimentos, one chopped green pepper, lemon 
juice and salt to taste. Will serve six or eight. 

Mbs. Lavinia. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Yolks of four eggs, four tablespoons sugar, two 
tablespoons butter, seven tablespoons vinegar, one small 
teaspoon salt and mustard, boil until thick, thin with 
sweet cream. 

*' NEVER FAIL" SALAD DRESSING 

Two tablespoons sugar, one level teaspoon mustard, 
one level teaspoon salt, four e^gg yolks (or two eggs), 
four tablespoons milk, four tablespoons vinegar, small 
piece butter, speck red pepper. Mix dry ingredients, 
add well beaten eggs, other ingredients in order. Cook 
in double boiler. Before serving, add plain or whipped 
cream. Will serve sixteen people if bottle of whipped 
cream is added. 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 

To mayonnaise dressing add green peppers and pi- 
mentoes chopped fine, and a little chili sauce. 

Mrs. G. a. Ross. 



Sauces and Salad Dressings 117 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

Mix in small bowl or double boiler yolks of three 
eggs, well beaten; three tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon 
salt, one teaspoon mustard, one-half teaspoon white pep- 
per, eight tablespoons vinegar. Set bowl in pan of hot 
water and stir until it thickens. Remove from fire and 
add one large tablespoon butter. When cold add one- 
half pint of whipped cream. Mrs. G. Chadwick. 

RED CABBAGE SALAD 

Cut as for slaw with onion minced in. Pour over 
following dressing : Mix sugar, mustard, flour, salt and 
pepper with vinegar, and add to hot bacon or ham grease, 
and pour over cabbage when cool. 

^5-N SALAD DRESSING 

One cup milk, one teaspoon corn starch, lump of 
butter, one teaspoon mustard, two teaspoons sugar, one 
of salt, one-half cup vinegar, one egg. Mix milk, com 
starch and butter together and cook slowly on stove until 
milk is thickened. Add slowly the mustard, salt, sugar, 
and vinegar, which have been dissolved together, and 
cook all three or four minutes. Take from fire and stir 
very slowly into the well-beaten egg. This may be 
made as rich as desired by the use of more butter, or 
cream instead of milk. Serves eight people. 

JVIrs. E. Gaylord. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

Juice two oranges, juice one lemon, two eggs, bne- 
half cup sugar, one cup cream, whipped. Beat eggs, then 
add juice of oranges and lemon, then sugar, boil until 
clear; whip cream and stir thoroughly into the mixture. 
Set away to cool. Can be made the day before. 

'Mrs. Fred W. Lamb. 



118 The Wheel Cook Book ' -^^ 

TABLE MUSTARD 

Work together three tablespoons of mustard and one 
tablespoon of sugar, beat in an Qg^ until smooth, add one 
teacup vinegar, little at a time, add piece of butter, size 
of an Qg^ ; cook until thickens, stirring all the time. 

Mrs. W. T. Hughes. 

TARTAR SAUCE 

Beat together the yolks of two eggs, a teacup of olive 
oil and three teaspoons of vinegar, and when well beaten 
add a tablespoon of mustard, a teaspoon of sugar, 
a tablespoon of chopped capers, a tablespoon of chopped 
cucumber pickles, the juice of one onion and a half salt- 
spoon of pepper. Mix all together thoroughly. This 
sauce is for meats served in jelly and for fried and 
broiled meats and fish. 



Additional Recipes 119 



120 The Wheel Cook Book 



Soups 

CONSOMME SOUP 

Place one dessert spoon of dripping, and one heaping' 
tablespoon of sugar in a soup pan, let the sugar melt, 
and turn an amber color, or even a brown, this must be 
watched closely, then add one cup of water, and boil 
until the sugar and water are mixed, then pour in four 
quarts of water and add two pounds of beef and a 
fifteen cent knuckle of veal, simmer for four hours ; any 
vegetables can be added, but it should stand over night 
first. 

CHICKEN SOUP 

One quart of chicken stock, one quart milk, one and 
one-half tablespoons butter, one and one-half tablespoons 
flour, a little' onion, pepper, salt, and a little chopped 
celery or one level teaspoon celery seed. Have ready 
two well beaten eggs and pour the soup on the eggs 
slowly, stirring the while. 

CORN AND TOMATO SOUP 

Press a cup of canned tomatoes through sieve. Cook 
one cup of canned corn, one-half onion, bay leaf and 
cup of water in double boiler twenty minutes. Press 
through sieve. Cook one-fourth cup flour and teaspoon 
salt in one-fourth cup of butter, add three cups of milk. 
When the sauce has boiled, add hot tomato and corn 
with more seasoning if needed. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Chop fine and mash two bunches of celery. Pour 
one quart of milk over celery, place on stove and leave 
until it reaches boiling point. Then add two tablespoons 
of butter and one tablespoon of flour rubbed together 
to the milk, let boil until it thickens. Season with salt 
and pepper and put through a strainer. 

121 



122 The Wheel Cook Book 

TOMATO SOUP TO CAN 

Fourteen quarts cut tomatoes, fourteen small stalks 
celery, fourteen bay leaves, fourteen small sprays parsley, 
twenty-five cloves, seven small onions, four tablespoons 
salt, two teaspoons black pepper or few peppercorns, 
two heaping tablespoons sugar. Cook until soft. Run 
through sieve, then cream fourteen tablespoons soft but- 
ter with fourteen level tablespoons flour and a little 
of the hot soup. Boil, stir well, can. When using add 
meat stock or milk about an equal amount. — Donated. 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

Drain liquor from can of peas, cook them until very 
soft, then rub through colander. Thicken a quart of milk 
with one tablespoon of flour rubbed into two tablespoons 
of butter. Stir the mashed peas into this, let boil up 
once, stirring steadily, season with salt and one tea- 
spoon of sugar. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

Put contents of can of com into wooden bowl and 
chop fine, then put into a double boiler with one quart 
of milk. Melt two tablespoons of butter with small 
onion sliced thin and add two tablespoons of flour. Stir 
this into corn and milk, add salt and pepper and cook 
ten minutes, strain and serve. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Cut stalks of bunch of asparagus into one-half inch 
lengths and boil slowly for an hour in three cups salted 
water. When tender, drain and press through colander. 
Keep liquid hot. Cook together one tablespoon butter 
and one tablespoon flour, add one quart milk. When 
smooth, add the above liquor with cup full of aspara- 
gus tips, boiled tender. Have ready beaten yolks of two 
eggs, pour the hot soup gradually on these, stir all the 
time, return to fire for about one-half minute. Season 
to taste. 



Soups 123 

SCOTCH BROTH 

Three pounds mutton from fore-quarter, two quarts 
cold water, one-half tablespoon salt, one-fourth teaspoon 
pepper, two slices turnip, one-half onion, one-fourth 
cup sifted flour, one-fourth cup each carrot and tur- 
nip cut in small cubes, two tablespoons barley. Wipe 
meat, remove skin and fat, and cut meat in small pieces. 
Add water, heat gradually to boiling point, skim, and 
cook slowly two hours. After cooking one hour, add 
salt, pepper, turnip and onion. Strain, cool, remove fat, 
reheat, and thicken with flour diluted with enough cold 
water to pour easily. Cook carrot and turnip dice in 
boiling salted water until soft; drain and add to soup. 
Soak barley over night in cold water, drain and cook 
in boiling salted water until soft; drain and add to 
soup. If barley should be cooked in the soup, it would 
absorb the greater part of the stock. Barley may be 
omitted; in that case sprinkle with finely chopped pars- 
ley and serve with croutons. Mrs. William Preston. 



124 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 125 



126 The Wheel Cook Book 



Vegetables 



HINTS ON COOKING VEGETABLES 

First — Have them fresh as possible. Summer vege- 
tables should be cooked on same day they are gathered. 
Second — Look them over and wash well, cutting out all 
decayed or unripe parts. Third — Lay them, when 
peeled, in cold water for some time before using. Fourth 
— Always let water boil before putting them in, and 
continue to boil until done. 

Turnips — Should be peeled, and boiled from forty 
minutes to an hour. 

Beets — Boil from one to two hours; then put in cold 
water and slip skin off. 

Spinach — Boil twenty minutes. 

Parsnips — Boil from twenty to thirty minutes. 

Onions — Best boiled in two or three waters, adding 
milk the last time. 

String Bea/ns — Should be boiled one and one-half 
hours. 

Shell Beans — Eequire an hour. 

Green Corn — Boil twenty or thirty minutes. 

Green Peas — Should be boiled in little water as 
possible; boil twenty minutes. 

Asparagus — Same as peas ; serve on toast with cream 
gravy. 

Winter Squash — Cut in pieces and boil twenty to 
forty minutes in small quantity of water; when done, 
press water out, mash smooth, season with butter, pepper, 
and salt. 

Cabbage — Should be boiled from one to two hours in 
plenty of water; salt while boiling. 

TURNIPS 
Are wholly deficient in salt, fat and starch, and are 
therefore desirable to serve plain boiled or mashed and 
seasoned only with salt and pepper, with boiled bacon, 
roast pork and mutton. They are most palatable when 
cut into half inch cubes, boiled in plenty of well salted 
water, and served in a rich white sauce. 

127 



128 The Wheel Cook Book 

POTATO LYONNAISE 

Put two tablespoons of butter into a frying pan, 
when melted add an onion, chopped fine; cook two or 
three minutes, add six cold boiled potatoes, sliced, well 
seasoned with pepper and salt ; saute a nice light brown. 
Just before serving, add a teaspoon of finely chopped 
parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. 

POTATO, FRENCH (Fried) 

Pare the potatoes and throw into cold water for at 
least an hour. Cut in slices, blocks, strips, balls or any 
fancy shape, and dry them on a towel. Drop quickly 
into fat hot enough to brown them by the time they 
come to the surface. They are done when they float. 
Skim into a draining basket and set in the oven to keep 
hot, either as a garnish or for a vegetable. 

HASHED POTATOES 

Chop cold boiled potatoes, new ones are best, into 
bits the size of a peanut. Season with salt, pepper and 
chopped parsley, and for one quart potato allow three 
tablespoons butter. Heat the butter and toss the po- 
tatoes in it tni they begin to show a little brown, then 
add one-quarter cup thin cream, and set back to brown 
on the bottom. Fold like an omelet and serve, or gather 
into a mound with the brown crust on top. 

POTATO PUFFS 

Prepare four large potatoes the same as mashed 
potato. While hot, shape into balls the size of an egg. 
Have a tin dish well buttered and place the balls in it. 
Brush over with beaten egg. Brown in oven. When 
done, slip a knife under them, removing to a hot plat- 
ter, bedded with parsley. Serve at once. 

Mrs. J. B. Speck. 



Vegetables 129 

SWEET POTATOES SOUTHERN STYLE 

Wash and pare six medium sized potatoes. Cook ten 
minutes in boiling salted water. Drain, cut in halves or 
quarters lengthwise, and put in buttered pan. Heat one- 
half cup maple syrup to boiling point, add one table- 
spoon butter and pour over potatoes, brown in oven. 

Mrs. Preston. 

BROWNED MASHED POTATOES 

To six large mashed potatoes, add butter the size of 
an egg and one-half cup of milk or cream, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Beat well and bake in moderate oven 
till brown (from fifteen minutes to one-half hour). 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Use fresh or cold boiled potatoes. Slice and put in 
baking dish in layers, salting and peppering each layer, 
adding as much butter as you wish. Cover with milk, 
which is better with a little thickening. Cook in fairly 
hot oven about one-half hour if made with cold boiled 
potatoes ; at least one hour, if the potatoes are uncooked, 
and the baking dish is not too large. To make enough 
potatoes for twenty people, a good allowance is about 
one dishpan of raw potatoes and cook the scallop at least 
two hours. 

TOIMATO SAUCE 

One cup strained tomatoes, one tablespoon flour 
blended with one tablespoon of butter, one bay leaf, one- 
half teaspoon scraped onion or juice, a little parsley, one- 
eighth teaspoon salt, pepper to taste. Boil tomato and 
seasoning five minutes ; remove parsley and bay leaf, and 
turn onto blended butter and flour. Stir and cook to 
smooth creamy consistency. 



130 The Wheel Cook Book 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

Make by recipe for scalloped potatoes putting cheese 
over each layer and on top. You may use a good salt 
cracker or whole wheat cracker, crumbled in place of 
cheese and the potatoes will taste practically the same. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

Wipe and remove thin slices from stem end of six 
medium sized tomatoes. Take out seeds and pulp, 
sprinkle inside of tomatoes with salt, invert, and let 
stand one-half hour. Cook five minutes two tablespoons 
butter with one-half tablespoon finely chopped onion. 
Add one-half cup cold cooked chicken or veal, one-half 
cup soft stale bread crumbs, tomato pulp, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Cook five minutes, then add one egg 
slightly beaten and cook one minute, and refill tomatoes 
with mixture. Place in buttered pan, sprinkle with but- 
tered cracker crumbs, and bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. Mrs. William Preston. 

GREEN PEPPER A LA CREOLE 

Twelve green peppers washed and seeded, one large 
tea cup of rice well cooked and salted, one-half pound 
of cheese grated. After rice is thoroughly cold and stiff 
work in grated cheese and any kind of meat gravy or 
soup stock. Then put into peppers and bake in hot 
oven for twenty minutes. Very delicious for luncheon. 

Mrs. J. D. McDowell. 

LUNCHEON DISH 

Boil rice and let it steam for a few moments until 
each grain stands out separately. 

Also cut carrots into small pieces and boil. Heap the 
rice on a bed of parsley on a platter and put the carrots 
around it and put one or two sliced hard boiled eggs 
on top of the rice. Pour over all a cream sauce and on 
top of this, grated cheese. Mrs. J. W. Havens. 



Vegetables 131 

SPANISH RICE 

One cup rice after boiling, four tablespoons grated 
cheese, four tablespoons tomato pulp, one teaspoon 
grated onion, one heaping tablespoon butter, one small 
teaspoon each of mixed mustard, curry powder, salt, 
pepper, and browned crumbs. Melt the butter, put in 
the onion and curry powder and cook for a few minutes. 
Add the rice, cheese, tomato and mustard and mix well. 
Sprinkle bread crumbs on top and bake. 

Jessie W. Westcott. 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

Pick over one quart pea beans, cover with cold water, 
and soak ove?: night. In morning, drain, cover with 
fresh water, heat slowly (keeping water below boiling 
point) and cook until skins will burst, which is best de- 
termined by taking a few beans on the tip of a spoon and 
blowing on them, when skins will burst if sufficiently 
cooked. Beans thus tested must of course be thrown 
away. Drain beans. Scald rind of one-half pound fat 
salt pork, scrape, remove one-fourth inch slice and put in 
bottom of bean-pot. Cut through rind of remaining 
pork every one-half inch, making cuts one inch deep. 
Put beans in pot and bury pork in beans, leaving rind 
exposed. Mix one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon mo- 
lasses and three tablespoons of sugar, add one cup boiling 
water and pour over beans. Cover bean-pot, put in oven 
and bake slowly six or eight hours, uncovering the last 
hour of cooking, that rind may become brown and 
crisp. Add water as needed. If desired add with sea- 
soning one-half tablespoon mustard. If pork mixed with 
lean is preferred, use less salt. Use earthen bean-pot 
with small top and bulging sides. Yellow-eyed beans 
are very good when baked. Boston Cook Book. 



132 The Wheel Cook Book 

> 

SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT 

Boiled — Wash, scrape and throw into cold water. 
Cut into inch pieces and boil rapidly uncovered in a 
granite stew pan. A little vinegar will help to keep it 
white. Drain them well and serve with plenty of butter 
and lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste, or dressed with 
cream or Bechamel sauce. 

Fried — Cut cold boiled salsify into convenient 
lengths, coat each with fritter batter No. 2, and fry in 
deep fat until well crisped. 

SARMAS 

Prepare equal measure of finely minced meat, lamb 
or veal, and washed rice. Season to taste with salt, pep- 
per, onion and cayenne. Scald grape leaves till they are 
well wilted. In each leaf roll a little of the meat and 
rice, making small oval balls, stew in just enough water 
to keep them from browning. Blanched lettuce or cab- 
bage leaves will do ; in this case add a few drops lemon 
juice to the meat. 

SPINACH 

Pick over carefully while dry, throw a few plants 
at a time into a large pan of cold water, wash well on 
both sides to dislodge insects, and pass to another pan. 
They should have at least three separate waters. Put the 
spinach into a large kettle without water, set it on the 
stove where it will cook slowly till the juice is drawn, 
then boil till tender, drain and chop fine. For half a 
peck of spinach add one ounce butter, one-half teaspoon 
salt. Reheat and serve on buttered toast. 

PLANTATION SWEET POTATO 

Cut cold cooked sweet potatoes in rather thick slices. 
Put them in a deep dish with pepper, salt and butter, 
pour on a little milk, enough to barely show between the 
pieces, and bake in a moderate oven one hour. 



Vegetables 133 

YAMS 
Are treated and served like sweet potatoes. 

. SUGAR POTATO OR CANDIED YAMS 

Parboil, peel and cut in quarter inch slices. Put the 
slices into a heavy syrup made in the proportion of one 
cup white sugar to one-quarter cup water, and one tea- 
spoon butter. Simmer gently for an hour, then let the 
syrup boil away till it is almost dry. Serve with meats. 

RICE, STEAMED 

Pour two cups of boiling water on one cup well 
washed rice, and one level teaspoon of salt. Cook in 
double boiler thirty minutes, or till soft. If too dry at 
the end of twenty minutes add a little more boiling 
water. ,, ^ 

RICE, BOILED 

Have ready four quarts of boiling salted water. 
Throw in one cup rice and let boil fast, uncovered, until 
the kernels open. Drain in a colander, cover with cloth, 
keep warm twenty minutes, shake up light three times. 

CURRIED RICE 

Mix one teaspoon curry powder with one cup gravy 
or white sauce and pour over rice boiled as above. Good 
with veal or mutton in any style. 

ESCALLOPED PARSNIPS 

To one pint of boiled and mashed parsnips add one 
tablespoon of butter, a teaspoon of salt, a dash of pepper, 
and two tablespoons of milk. Mix the ingredients ; turn 
into a buttered dish ; cover with bread crumbs, dot with 
butter, and brown in the oven. 



134 The Wheel Cook Book 

ESCALLOPED PARSNIPS (Mrs. Rorer) 

Four good sized parsnips, one-half a cup of bread 
crumbs, one tablespoon of flour, one-half a pint of milk, 
one tablespoon of butter, one-half a teaspoon of salt, 
one saltspoon of pepper, two tablespoons of chopped 
onions. Scrape and boil the parsnips; when tender, cut 
them into blocks. Make a cream sauce from the butter, 
flour, and milk; add the salt and pepper. Put a layer 
of the cream sauce in the bottom of the baking dish, then 
a layer of parsnips, a sprinkling of onions, and so con- 
tinue until the dish is full, having the last layer sauce. 
Dust with fine bread crumbs. 

PARSNIP SPHERES 

Boil the parsnips till tender ; drain and mash, or put 
through a colander. Season well with butter, salt and 
pepper. Flour the hands and form the parsnips into 
spheres. Roll in flour and fry in dripping in a frying 
pan until a nice brown on both sides. If preferred, a 
well beaten egg and one tablespoon of flour may be 
added with the butter, salt, and pepper. Good with 
roast beef. 

CORN AND RICE CAKES 

Mix two cups corn meal, one tablespoon flour, one 
teaspoon salt, three teaspoons baking powder and one 
cup boiled rice, add two cups milk slowly, then add 
three well beaten eggs and two tablespoons melted but- 
ter. Beat all thoroughly and bake in greased muffin pans 
for twenty minutes. 

FRIED EGG PLANT 

Peel and cut into slices about one-third inch thick. 
Salt a little, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in 
fat enough to cover. When a silver fork goes through 
easily, the egg plant is done. Try the edges especially. 
Serve with creamed potatoes and apple sauce. A good 
substitute for meat. Mrs. Elias Day. 



Additional Recipes 135 



136 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 137 



138 The Wheel Cook Booh 



Recipes for Feeding a Large 
Number 

FRUIT PUNCH 

Four dozen lemons, one dozen oranges, one grated 
pineapple (one large can), four pounds sugar. Boil 
sugar in two quarts of water (early, to let cool). Put 
cloves in one orange and slice. Add strawberries or 
cherries, about eighty or ninety. Add seven or eight 
quarts of water and large piece of ice. A good way is 
to add a portion of juice and water to punch bowl as 
needed, for the fruit juice will keep until another day 
or longer. This will make punch for about ninety 
people. Mrs. W. V. Carroll. 



HOT CHOCOLATE FOR FIFTY PERSONS 

Ten squares of bitter chocolate, seventeen tablespoons 
of sugar, four quarts sweet milk, heated to boiling; five 
teaspoons of corn starch, dissolved in a little cold milk. 
Shave the chocolate fine and dissolve it in seven table- 
spoons of boiling water. Add five cups of boiling water, 
the sugar, and cornstarch dissolved in milk. Boil five 
minutes. Then add the milk and remove from fire. 

Mrs. a. F. Robinson. 



FOR ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY PERSONS 

Three hundred and fifty rolls, two boiled hams or 
one large ham, and ten pounds of cold pressed corn 
beef. For sandwiches, use thirty loaves of baker's bread 
and one large ham, five pounds of butter, four pounds 
of coffee, eight quarts of cream, three pounds of sugar, 
six quarts of pickles, twelve cakes. 

139 



140 The Wheel Cook Book 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

Use Perfection salad recipe, substituting for **one 
pint of boiling water," one pint of boiling tomato juice. 
The chopped celery is very nice in this. Make four times 
the recipe for Perfection Salad to serve sixty people. 

CREAMED CHICKEN IN PATTIES 

For Sixty People 
Twelve pounds of chickens, after they are drawn and 
trimmed. This will call for about fifteen and three- 
fourths pounds. Cook in salt water slowly till well 
done — several hours. Save the juice for the sauce. 
Shred the chicken or cut fine. To about one gallon of 
liquor add one quart of milk. Thicken, add chicken and 
season if necessary. If you wish peas, add two cans, 
well drained. Serve in patties or on toast. 

CHIPPED BEEF A LA CREOLE 

This will serve seventy-five people. 
Three pounds of chipped beef ground, three cans of 
tomatoes, one-half pound of cheese grated, eight green 
peppers chopped fine, two dozen eggs well beaten. Put 
all ingredients except eggs in large boiler over fire and 
let come to boil, then add beaten eggs and thicken with 
flour and water if not stiff after adding eggs. Serve on 
golden flake biscuit crackers or toast. 

Mrs. C. a. Goodspeed, 

CREAMED OYSTERS FOR FIFTY PEOPLE 

To be served in patty shells or timbales. One gallon 
oysters, two and one-half quarts milk, one pound butter, 
three cups flour, salt and pepper to taste. Melt the 
butter and stir in the flour to a smooth paste. Add the 
milk slowly and cook over a moderate flre until thor- 
oughly done and thicken. Let the oysters come to a good 
boil, skim out and add to the cream sauce. The oyster 
juice may be strained and enough added to make the 
sauce the desired consistency. Mrs. Frank Ballard. 



Recipes for Feeding a Large Number 141 

SERVES SIXTY PEOPLE 

Three pounds veal, three chickens (sixteen pounds), 
four pounds rice, one large can pimento peppers. Boil 
veal and chickens until meat comes off bone. Pick and 
cut fine, season to taste. Boil rice in four times quantity 
of water one-half hour ; salt water, place layer of rice in 
pan, pour over thickened chicken gravy, add layer of 
chicken with pimentos cut fine. Pour over this cream 
dressing made with some of the chicken gravy added. 
Add rice as before. 

PRESSED LAMB 

One leg lamb, seven to eight pounds; ten eggs, boil 
hard, chop and season to taste; one heaping tablespoon 
celery seed, small pinch Cayenne pepper, one-half bunch 
of parsley chopped very fine, two heaping tablespoons 
gelatine dissolved in a cup of cold water. Boil meat 
slowly until very tender and season with salt while 
cooking. Run through coarse grinder and put in above 
ingredients. Strain and heat liquid left from cooking 
bones and meat, then pour in the gelatine. Put liquid 
over seasoned meat ; then mix well and press. This will 
serve forty. Mrs. J. D. McDowell. 

JELLIED VEAL LOAF 

Ten pounds from shoulder, one shank bone. Cover 
with cold water and cook until tender. Take from liquor 
and pick meat from bone, chop or grind fine. Strain 
liquor, add two cups of fine dried bread crumbs, two tea- 
spoons of salt, one teaspoon black pepper, two teaspoons 
celery seed. Add meat and cook all together until thick 
and pack in a loaf. Will be ready to slice when cold. 
Will serve fifty people. Mrs. Geo. A. Ross. 

POTATOES 
One peck of potatoes will serve twenty people. 



142 The Wheel Cook Book 

RICE AND TOMATOES FOR FORTY 

Boil two pounds of rice. When almost done, add 
three quart can of tomatoes, one-fourth pound of butter, 
and six green peppers chopped fine. Mix together and 
put in the oven. Bake for at least three-fourths of an 
hour. This is a Southern dish and may be varied by- 
adding chopped ham and chopped onions fried yellow in 
butter. Some spread grated cheese on top or sprinkle 
green cheese on it at serving, or merely bake the cheese 
in it. 



Additional Recipes 143 



144 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 145 



146 The Wheel Cook Book 



Miscellaneous 



ICE TEA 

This serves ten or twelve people. 
Make six cups of strong tea. Pour over crushed mint 
leaves. Let it stand until well brewed. Strain, sweeten 
slightly, and set away to cool. Have ready ice, sprays of 
mint, two lemons, and ginger ale. When ready to serve, 
squeeze lemon into tea, cut the sprays of mint into 
glasses; and, at the last minute, pour in the ginger ale. 
Serve at once. Use ginger ale in place of water to 
weaken the tea. Mrs. Elias Day. 

EXCELLENT PEPPER SANDWICHES 

One-half pound well cooked cold boiled ham, two 
hard boiled eggs, one green pepper (remove seeds), chop 
together in a bowl. Add mayonnaise dressing and 
spread between thin sheets of bread. Delicious. This 
makes thirty sandwiches. Mrs. W. H. Pearce. 

To the above may be added so one-half will be dif- 
ferent, chopped green cucumbers and a little onion. 

GRATED CHEESE SANDWICH 

Raisins and MarshmaUows Also Used With Rye Bread. 
Rye bread seems to call for a cheese as a filler, and 
if one will grate the cheese instead of slicing it, it will 
be found to work very much better. Cottage cheese with 
chopped parsley, water cress, chopped sweet pepper or 
a tiny bit of chopped onion makes delicious rye bread 
sandwiches. Both Swiss and American cheese with a 
little mustard are also fine as fillers for rye bread 
sandwiches. A sweet sandwich made with rye bread 
is delicious with a filling of raisins and marshmallows. 
Don't forget that these sandwiches must be made with 
the same care as the white ones. Bread must be forty- 
eight hours old, cut thin, and spread, delicately with but- . 
ter and all crusts removed. Creamed cheese and cur- 
rant jelly mixed makes a nice filling, particularly if put 
between salted wafers. 

147 



148 The Wheel Cook Book 

FILLINGS FOR SANDWICHES 

Baked beans mixed with horseradish, catsup or may- 
onnaise. 

Celery and almonds (chopped) and chopped pimento 
dressing. 

Minced chicken with a little minced olive, onion and 
green pepper dressing. 

Chicken, fried bacon, celery, a little bit of green pep- 
per, dressing. 

Cheese and chili sauce. 

Cheese and marmalade (orange) and pecans. 

Cream cheese, one teaspoon mustard, Worcestershire, 
catsup, paprika. 

SANDWICH FILLING 

Six hard boiled eggs, six sweet pickles, one onion, one 
apple, three tablespoons prepared mustard, pepper and 
salt, one cup butter. Mix butter and egg yolks together, 
grind apple, onion, pickle and whites of eggs. Mix all 
together. This makes nearly one quart. 

Mrs. W. T. Hughes. 



SAVORY WAFERS 

Pound together in a mortar two tablespoons butter, 
quarter pound Roquefort cheese, quarter teaspoon salt, 
quarter teaspoon paprika and sufficient Tarragon vine- 
gar to mix all to a paste. Spread this on long, unsalted 
finger wafers. 



TO PEEL TOMATOES 

Rub a ripe tomato quickly with the blade of a knife 
and then peel. Skin will come off as easily as if plunged 
in boiling water and the tomato will not be mealy or 
soft. 



Miscellaneous 149 

RULES FOR TESTING FAT FOR FRYING 

1. When the fat begins to smoke, drop in an inch 
cube of bread, from soft part of loaf, and if in forty- 
seconds it is golden brown, the fat is then of right tem- 
perature for frying any cooked mixture. 

2. Use same test for uncooked mixtures, allowing 
one minute for bread to brown. 

Many kinds of food may be fried in the same fat; 
new fat should be used for batter and dough mixtures, 
after these fish, meat, and croquettes. Fat should be 
frequently clarified. 

To Clarify Fat — Melt fat, add raw potato cut in 
quarter inch slices, and allow fat to heat gradually; 
when fat ceases to bubble and potatoes are well browned, 
strain through double cheese cloth placed over wire 
strainer, into ^ pan. The potato absorbs any odors or 
gases and collects to itself some of the sediment, remain- 
der settling to bottom of kettle. Mrs. Preston. 

CLEANING MATERIAL 

Four ounces strong aqua ammonia, one ounce sweet 
spirits of nitre, one ounce sulphuric ether, one ounce 
glycerine, one ounce pale castile soap. Dissolve the soap 
in two quarts water; when cool, add the other ingred- 
ients. Ready for use when used for cleaning clothes. 

Mrs. a. L. Kuehn. 



FLOOR POLISH 

Equal parts of boiled linseed oil, turpentine and 
vinegar, make a good polish for varnished floors. 

Mrs. Long. 

Take crude oil and thin with one-third the amount of 
benzine. Put on flannelette or similar rag and use on 
floor or furniture. 



v)" 



150 The Wheel Cook Book 

GOLD MEDAL POLISH 

Twelve pounds Spanish whiting, one-half pound 
English or light brown eastile soap, three ounces aqua 
ammonia, two ounces olive oil, one ounce sassafras oil, 
one pint soft warm water. Shave soap fine and dissolve 
in part of water all night. In the morning add both 
of oils and thin with ammonia. ^lix well with the 
hands, put in one-half of the whiting which has been 
sifted through a flour sieve. Mix thoroughly with the 
hands and add the rest of the whiting gradually and 
water very sparingly, until all the whiting has been 
worked in, make like bread dough and knead on a 
board. Make in cakes and place on a clean board to 
dry. G. R. C. 



Additional Recipes 151 



152 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 153 



154 The Wheel Cook Book 



Additional Recipes 155 



G 



et it from 

RAM 

ct it right 



T 



HIS book contains a number of excellent 
recipes and formulas that arc 

Absolutely 
Worthless 

unless you use pure, fresh, clean spices 

Thanks to the strict regulations of the "Pure Food Law,** the 
spices now in the market are practically pure. But this docs not at 
all signify that they are good spices. 

For example: Cinnamon bark can be harvested from old trees 
with woody, fibrous bark, containing very little of the aromatic 
principle; but it should be collected from young sprigs on four- 
year-old trees. 

Both are pure, but only the latter will give the right flavor. 
And this is true of almost every kind of spice. 

Get your spices from me. I know how to buy the right 
kind, and I keep them properly. 

Buy small quantities, and don't get the kind in paper boxes 
that dealers carry on their shelves sometimes for 6 months or more. 

Let me supply you with spices of all kinds. 

You will quickly observe a difference. 

Wm. J. B. Gram 

Lake Street at Ridgeland Avenue, Oak Park 

Telephone: Oak Park 950 



