Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



OF 




jftottlmer Levltaa 



T"' 



2-F-r 



1 



OF 







en 03 CD 



c/> 



Mortimer Levltaft 



2-f-r 



A TREATISE ON 

FOODS 

And Their Effects Upon Health 

and the Physical and 

Moral Life 

Also a Coiiq>Iete List of Recipes and Instructions 

for the Hygienic Preparation of the Common 

Food Products with Special Lists of Menus. 



m 

ELEVENTH EDITION 

REVISED AND ENLARGED 
1913 

m 

by 

SHERWOOD P.^NYDER 

Food SpectaHst. 

HEALTH PUBLISHING CO. 
DAYTON, OHIO 



Copyright, 1913 by 

HEALTH PUBLISHING CO. 

Dajrton, Ohio 



i?ri 






c* > 



! ^ Lv 



PREhACE 

THE mission of this book — it advocates cooking for 
health, to preserve good appetites, to impart strength 
and vitality to the vital organs and strength to the muscles, 
nerves and brain. 

Its efforts are directed to a more systematic and scientific 
course of living, that the life machinery may run more smooth- 
ly, thus avoiding mistakes, disease, pain and suffering. 

It is indeed gratifying to the author to know that through 
the influence of his lectures and book, hundreds of sick people 
have been restored to health. 

Foods prepared as directed in the following pages are con- 
structive, not destructive, to life; and to the principles it 
advocates the author invites the attention of all thinking 
people. 



iii 



PRESCRIPTION FOR A LONG UFE. 



Keep a dear conscience. 

Wear an honest face. 

Live a natural life. 

Cultivate a good temper. 

Eat wholesome foods, and eat to live ; but do not live to eat. 

Do not worry about things that never happen, and worrying 
about things of the past will never remedy them. 

Do not rob yourself of the proper amount of sleep. 

Keep the body clean externally and internally. 

Live on the sunny side of the street. 



Wise and Healthful Sayings Suggest Healthful Thoughts. So 
These Little Messages May Cause Some One To Think. 

The art of living rightly, like all arts, must be learned and 
practiced with an earnest diligence. 

— Goethe. 

The best physicians to attend us are Doctor Diet, Doctor 
Quiet, and Doctor Mcrryman. 

— Swift 

Nature, the handmaid of God, delights only in the glory of 
perfect humanity. 

— Shaftsbury, 

O Nature, gracious mother of us all, 
Within thy bosom myriad secrets lie 
Which thou surrendereth to the patient eye 
That seeks and waits. 

—-Margaret J, Preston, 

God made the perfect not immutable, 
And good he made, but to preserve 
He left it to thy powers ; ordained thy will 
By nature free, not over ruled by fate. 

—MUton. 

Ah! What avail the largest gifts of heaven. 
When drooping health and spirits go amiss? 
How tasteless then whatever can be given! 
Health is the vital principle of bliss. 

An honest face, like an honest flower, loves the light. 

— Shaftsbury. 

Regime is a duty which we owe to nature. 

— Shaftsbury, 



He is deformed crooked, old, and sere; 
111- faced, worse bodied, shapeless everywhere; 
Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, tmkind; 
Stigmatical in making, worse in mind. 

— Shakespeare, 

Our lives belong to others than ourselves, and we do others 
wrong in our neglect of health. — Shaftsbury, 

There are some people who scoff at health until they lose it, 
and then are cowards until they regain it. — Shaftsbury. 

All sickness and sin originate in disobeying nature's laws. 

—S. P. S. 



His thirst he slakes 

At some pure, neighboring brook, 

Nor seeks for sauce 

Where appetite stands cook. 

— Churchill. 

"My jolly good fellow," said Health, "now you really 

Have lately been drawing on me rather freely. 

Who riots with pleasure by night and by day. 

Must expect that in time there'll be something to pay. 

For the favors youVe had, that you may not forget, 

Suppose you just give me your note for the debt 

Write as I dictate: Twenty years after date 

I promise to pay to my health, sure as fate, 

For value received in sin, folly, and pleasure, 

These prominent parts of estates I should treasure : 

My limbs to be racked with rheumatics and gout, 

My teeth to decay till they mostly fall out, 

My eyes to grow dim, and my hair to grow gray, 

While dropsy and asthma take turns dajr by day, 

My nerves and my lungs, too, together give way, 

My stomach to fall to dyspepsia a prey. 

My taste to forsake me, my voice to grow weak, 

While my ears cannot hear, save when conscience shall speak. 

While my ears cannot hear, save when conscience shall speak.'* 

Now sign it. Remember, the protest is death." 

— Thomson. 



VI 



INTRODUCTION. 



THE endorsement and patronage the former editions of 
"The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods" receivedj 
has encouraged the author to revise and enlarge the succeeding 
editions, in which numerous other suggestions and a more 
complete list of recipes are offered. 

It seems almost utter folly to add another cook book to the 
already over-loaded supply, but the character of the one in 
question places it in a distinct class of its own. 

There are scores and scores of cook books filled with an end- 
less number and vairiety of recipes for the combination and 
preparation of the various food-stuffs, but it requires very little 
Study and investigating along the lines of the science and chem- 
istry of foods and hygietiic cooking, to be convinced that the 
avferage cook bbok is hot Writteh with the aim in view of giv^ 
ing to the houisewife instructions of a plain, simple, healthful 
(character, bu^ rather to make cookitlg difficult, expensive and 
too often uhwhoiesoiil^. 

The object of this book is to omit everything of a deleterious 
character, using only thosfe foods Which combine to make nu- 
tritious, healthful dishes; to incotporate recipes from which 
complete menus may be compiled every day; to solve the 
problerti oi the high cost of livitig; to reduce the amount of 
time and labor spent iti preparing foods; to teach the house- 
wife how to discrirtiinate betwefen thfe piire and the adulterated, 
the wholesome and the injurious, in providing food for her 
family; to teach thfe effects of foods upon health, kna the 
necessity of laying a good physical foundation in youth. 

The recipes given are with but few exceptions hygienic; 
nutritious, healthful, and yet so simple and economical in their 
^construction that they may be used in every home. 



vu 



Of course a book of this character always meets decided op- 
position and encounters numerous obstacles. The deep-seated 
influences and traditions that exist in regard to foods, make 
the pressure from the past that must be met and overcome 
seem very great. The majority of treatises on cooking thus 
far published have been a repetition of old methods not based 
on scientific principles, and in the past most things have been 
taken for granted; but to-day methods of cooking are being 
scrutinized and investigated as never before. This investiga- 
tion has proven that many of the ideas and principles employed 
in cooking are false, and hence, destructive to health. It is 
refreshing to know that with this investigation there has been 
born an intense desire to master this important and vital sub- 
ject, and it bids fair to become one of the most 
important branches in the curriculum of our schools. 

In the past, this branch of education has not been deemed 
necessary, and indeed in the days of our grandmothers it was 
not so essential, because the sources of our food supplies were 
so limited ; but to-day things are changed. In 'this inventive 
age people are not compelled to lead the same active, strenuous 
life, and with the all-consuming craze to get rich there has 
come a fearful deluge of adulterated and injurious foods. 
These the modern housewife has accepted almost without ques- 
tion and the fearful mortality of to-day stands out as a ghostly 
accuser. 

Some of our best physicians, physiologists, and dietitians 
claim that more than seventy-five per cent, of all sickness and 
a large per cent, of intemperance is the direct or indirect result 
of unwholesome foods. and intemperate eating. It goes without 
saying that the adulterations and the present methods of cook- 
ing are the cause of the unwholesome foods, and intemperate 
eating is largely the result of their stimulating, intoxicating 
and irritating effects. 



vm 



It is indeed sad when we reflect upon existing conditions 
how little attention and time we devote to the study of perfect- 
ing humanity, and yet how carefully we study and investigate 
the best ways and methods of perfecting animals. Surely 
the former would be of more economic value from a 
mercenary consideration, and infinitely more when life is con- 
sidered a reckoning factor. 

That the book will continue to fill the place in the home for 
which it is intended is the desire of the author. 

Sherwood P. Snyder. 



CONTENTS 



Chapter Page 

I. — The Preservation of Health a Sacred Duty. ... 13 

II. — The Dining Room 18 

III. — Classification of Foods 21 

IV.— Read the Labels 26 

V. — Baby's Food and Care of Children 30 

VI. — Kitchen Equipment 40 

VII. — The Value of Steam Cooking 43 

VIII. — Mastication 44 

IX. — Curing Disease by Diet 46 

X. — Cereals 57 

XI.— Breads 62 

XII. — Soups , 75 

XIII.— Meats 89 

XIV. — Meats Versus Vegetarianism 123 

XV. — Meat Imitations and Meat Substitutes 126 

XVI.— Sauces 130 

XVII.— Eggs 135 

XVIII.— Fats and Oils 141 

XIX.— Vegetables 142 

XX. — Legumes — 164 

XXI. — Rice and Macaroni 172 

XXII.— Salads 177 

XXIII.— Nuts, Nut Preparations, Nut Butters 188 

XXIV.— Pies 190 

XXV.— Scientific Cake Baking 198 

XXVI.— Desserts 211 

XXVIl.— Ice Creams and Ices 229 

XXVIlI.— Beverages 233 

XXIX.— Menus 236 

XXX. — Canning Fruits 253 

XXXI.— Exercising 259 

XXXII. — Composition of Foods 265 



CHAPTER I. 

THE PRESERVATION OF HEALTH A SACRED 

DUTY. 



IN the following article I do not expect to attempt to ex- 
haust the subject treated; on the contrary, I intend to 
deal only with general rules and laws, suggesting the things 
of which I feel every man and woman should have a com- 
plete knowledge, and should be prepared to carry out when 
they have taken upon themselves the sacred responsibility 
of parenthood. 

Providence has endowed man with a supreme intellect, and 
has put into our hands means for preserving health and life. 
These gifts involve a sacred and solemn duty and responsibility. 

Health is among those talents for the use of which we will 
be called upon to answer to our Master on the great day. 

We should realize that a proper knowledge and training 
in (regard to the control and regulation of the body is invaluable 
to health ; and this should be so thoroughly instilled into every 
school boy's and girl's mind that the subject would be familiar 
to all, for there is but little doubt that we bring nearly all 
diseases and disorders upon ourselves through ignorance and 
the lack of the proper knowledge to guard against them. 
If not the result of ignorance, they are traceable to neglect 
and carelessness, or neglect of proper training and management 
on the part of parents, or the guardians of our youth, and not 
infrequently they are entailed upon us by the two latter rea- 
sons. But we may rest assured that, sooner or later, nature 
will call upon us for the violation of her laws. It is true that 
for a time we may scorn disease and allow appetite and habits 

13 



14 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

to run riot, but nevertheless the debt and interest are accumula- 
ting all the while, and these must at last be paid with ill health 
and a shattered physical and nervous constitution. 

How many poor mortals there are who charge nature, or in 
other words the hand of Providence, with that which has ac- 
cumulated through neglect of the economy of health, by which 

the evils may have been obviated. 

In this day and age of general intelligence and widespread 
Christianity, when our land is literally dotted with free schools 
and churches, to be ignorant of the laws of life and health, 
I feel is criminal in the sight of God, and for the sake of a 
higher standard of physical and moral manhood and woman- 
hood we cannot begin too soon to teach our young people the 
laws of health and life, and the means of preserving it by the 
subjugation of appetite and correct living, by which they may 
live uninterruptedly in a perfect state of health and invaria- 
bly prolong life. 

A knowledge of the rules and conditions upon which health 
depends should be considered the most important part of the 
moral and intellectual education of every youth. We should 
open wide every source of knowledge to the young on these 
all-important subjects so they may have a store of useful in- 
formation, and start them well equipped on the voyage of life, 
prepared to ward off disease and understand, if necessary, 
nature's methods of strengthening a weakened constitution. 

Nature's five great secrets of health are: proper diet to 
supply the requirements of the body, exercise, fresh air, sun- 
shine, and bathing. By observing these rules you have the 
assurance that you will almost always, if not entirely, escape 
disease. 

People should not be guilty of so gross an error as to be 
utterly unacquainted with their own individual requirements^ 
They should be able to exercise at least enough judgment in 



The Preservation of Health a Sacred Duty 15 

matters that concern health and the proper care of their bodies 
to ward off all symptoms of approaching disease. 

Health should not be left to the care of a certain class of 
professional men who are paid to cure and not to prevent 
disease. It has been well said, "He who cures a disease may be 
the most skillful, but he who prevents it is the safest physician." 
Therefore, instead of using, daily, medicines which destroy the 
constitution and leave the body worn out, be your own guide ; 
but only be guided by reason and knowledge that you have 
obtained from a true source. 

The following are statements from some of the best physi- 
cians of whom the medical profession can boast : "From the 
abuse of medicines thousands on thousands die annually, from 
a wild and infatuated course of swallowing medicines daily, 
without reflection that they are taking poison." "Unfor- 
tunately for mankind, but most fortunately for physicians, the 
people cannot ascertain how many valuable lives are yearly 
destroyed by the dosing and drugging system." 

The skillful physician, although he uses medicine, can hardly 
be said to use it as a curative. For cure he looks to the strength 
of the constitution which remains, to the power of nature to 
rally, to diet, exercise, sleep, fresh air, etc. 

"Taking drugs continually conduces to destroy the stomach. 
Every ache or pain, real or imaginary, must be relieved by 
the recurrence to some remedy until finally the powers of the 
stomach are worn out, and derangements, functional and 
structural, take place." 

Doctor Skipper, once one of the most distinguished medical 
men of Philadelphia, and a teacher of medicine in the old 
medical college of that city for more than forty years, says: 
"If you find it necessary to have recourse to medicine, there 
are three kinds that you may make use of with safety: a 
temperate diet, a tranquil mind, and exercise. These," said 



16 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

this venerable and most experienced of physicians, "are the 
best remedies I have ever prescribed." 

The celebrated French physician, Dumoulin, on his death 
bed, when surrounded by three of the most distinguished medi- 
cal authorities of Paris, who were regretting the loss the 
medical profession would sustain in his death, said: "My 
friends, I leave behind me three physicians much greater than 
myself." Being much pressed to name them (each of the 
doctors supposing himself to be one of them), he answered, 
"diet, water, and exercise." — ^Doctor Gunn. 

The above statements contain the truth, but because of 
ignorance, indifference, and neglect we support more than 
one hundred thousand doctors, a vast army of dentists and a 
myriad of criminals commonly called "quacks," in this country 
alone. In addition to supporting all these we spend our hard- 
earned money by the millions for the abominable "stuff," called 
patent medicines, which often destroy, but rarely restore health. 

Poor human nature! How shamefully it is deceived when 
it expects medicines to restore lost health* How unfortunate 
for future humanity that we so live and neglect health that 
we are becoming a race of physical weaklings, and are giving 
birth to a generation that succumbs to every malady and vice 
to which man can fall heir. 

How long shall we devote our time and energies to the 
production of perfect specimens of animals, fouls, grain, vege- 
tables, fruits, and flowers, and yet neglect God's child-perfect- 
ing ordinances. 

Why is it, in this day and age of a progressive and intelligent 
people, that we willingly allow our physical and moral manhood 
to remain at such a low standard? 

The possession of a sound mind in a well-developed, sym- 
metrical body was considered by our ancient ancestors to be the 
highest gift and the greatest blessing that man could enjoy, 



The Preservation of Health a Sacred Duty 17 

and this great truth, being instilled in the minds of men so 
long ago, renders it very strange indeed that man has not 
profited by it, and used every intelligent means in his power to 
secure or develop a healthy body, for the mental powers 
and energy, the evenness of temper, the character of the 
disposition, are closely associated with the state of the physical 
condition. It is the opinion of many of our most eminent 
doctors, that if half the amount of care and study were 
given to instruct and improve the human race that has been 
bestowed upon domestic animals during the past century, there 
would be but little need or use for doctors or medicines. If we 
paid as much attention to our children as we do to our horses, 
they would be a greater credit to a highly civilized 
race of people. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE DINING-ROOM. 



"The body cannot thrive on foods that will not supply its needs." 

THE human life is builded iii the dining-room. Every 
bone, muscle^ nerve, and brain cell ; the hair, skin, teeth ■ 
the lungs and heart are formed aiid produced by the material 
furnished in the dining-room. 

In the food we eat is the dwellihg of all nourishmentj vitali- 
tyj energy, and life. The food furnishes the elements for every 
cell in the body. The nierves attd brain Stre simply masses of 
living cells. The nerves and brain are the fountain heads of 
all thoughts and motives, either good or evil. Our actions 
and deeds, whatever their character may be, are the result of 
thinking. So moral as well as physical character must be very 
closely allied to the brain. 

God ordained that "like begets like.'* This is true in all 
nature, both in the vegetable and animal kingdom. We recog- 
nize the fact that all vegetable life is wonderfully influenced 
by the character of the soil, and that animal life is wonderfully 
influenced by the character of food. Even the flesh of animals 
is so changed in texture and flavor that it is noticeable to the 
eye and taste; and the disposition of horses or dogs, or any 
animal, can be greatly influenced by certain kinds of food. The 
same ordained laws govern human life, and the body, the brain 
and mind are affected by the same influences, 

Man has a threefold nature : the physical, the moral, and the 
spiritual. The physical is the buoyancy of vigorous action. 
The moral is the buoyancy of affection and kindly regard for 
others, Spiritual health and development is that nature in 

18 



The Dining Room 19 

man which makes him aspire to the highest, noblest, and purest 
thoughts and deeds. These three natures are so intimately re- 
lated that whatever affects the one, must, through their sympa- 
thetic relationship, affect the others. So it is not a body, it is 
not a soul, that we should aim to develop, but a perfect, godly 
human being. 

If we want to produce a perfect flower, we recognize the 
fact that it must be planted in the right kind of soil) and that 
it must be properly cultivated in order that it may product a 
healthy growth. By obeying these rules we are successful, and 
the result is a strong plant with beautiful, sweet-scented flowers. 

We may liken the flower unto human life, the stalk as the 
physical nature, the blossom the moral nature, and its sweet 
perfume the spiritual nature. These three qualities in the 
flower are required to make it complete, but the two latter 
qualities are dependent upon the first; or, in other words, the 
beauty and fragrance of the blossom depends solely upon the 
health and vigor of the stalk which produces it. It is so with 
a human life. We cannot expect a physical and mental body, 
under abnormal conditions and influences, to produce 
healthful, normal thoughts and actions that are to bear the fra- 
grance of honesty and virtue. 

It behooves every father and mother, and every man and 
woman, who have taken upon themselves the responsibility of 
rearing children, or the sacred responsibility of parenthood, to 
study and understand the laws governing the physical, moral, 
and spiritual health and growth, and thereby implant the 
good doctrines of health, moral cleanliness, and purity of mind 
and body in their children. 

Some of our best physicians and physiologists claim that the 
greater part of all diseases, intemperance, and immorality is the 
direct or indirect result of the stimulating, irritating, intoxicat- 
ing, and poisoning foods that we eat. Whether this be true or 



20 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

not, we must admit that something is radically wrong whett 
statistics prove that twenty-five per cent, of the human beings 
that are born into life, die before they reach the age of five, 
and another twenty-five per cent* die before they reach the 
age of ten. 

I most heartily believe in preaching the love of Jesus Christ 
to men, and God's power to save men from temptation, sick- 
ness, and sin. But it is hardly consistent to try to accomplish 
by prayer that which can be accomplished only by diet. 

That a person's diet may affect and bear upon the disposi- 
tion is well known to physiologists. Digestive disturbances al- 
ways irritate the nervous system, and often to a degree that the 
victim becomes ill-tempered, ill physically, ungentle, unkind, 
vicious, or as Shakespeare has well said, "stigmatical in making 
and worse in mind." 

The model housekeeper will see that her dining-room is as 
attractive as any room in the house. Of course this is essential. 
The floor should be kept looking fresh, clean, and tidy. The 
walls should not appear old and dingy. There should be no 
dust, cobwebs, dirt, or unattractive things visible. All should- 
be clean and sweet to sight and smell. But while this is essen- 
tial, it is infinitely more essential for her to know that every- 
thing that goes into the dining-room for her family to eat 
is of a character that will produce surging, life-giving blood, 
healthy muscles, tingling nerves, a restful digestion, a beautiful 
body, and a strong intellect that will produce high, noble, manly 
and womanly thoughts and actions, and a peaceful and kindly 
disposition. When a mother does this, and rears a family 
of boys and girls that are useful, and a blessing to the world, 
she has filled her most divine and sublime mission on earth. 



CHAPTER III. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS. 



IT is one thing to carelessly get a few things together to 
satisfy hunger ; it is quite another thing to so combine foods 
that they meet the physiological demands, which constitute 
those elements in correct proportion necessary to maintain 
bodily health and vigor and to preserve digestion. 

Poorly arranged menus are the bane of our present day 
cooking. . Often body and mind are impaired, owing to the 
habitual fare having contained an over-abundance of some one 
of the food elements ; or the body is slowly poisoned with waste 
matter; or is impaired as a result of stimulation, or over-ex- 
ertion to dispose of surplus material. 

Foods may be classified into four groups; proteins, car- 
bohydrates, fats, and mineral salts. From this classification 
it is a simple matter to arrange foods correctly in the daily 
menus. 

The body utilizes a certain number of calories of each of 
the food elements daily, but an over-abundance of any one of 
them means accumulated waste in the system, and over-taxed 
organs. The rapidity with which foods are digested is an 
important factor, especially where meals are too near together ; 
say with intervals of less than five hours. 

Protein holds first place in importance. It constitutes 
practically all the solid matter of the blood and muscle. Sir 
Mitchael Foster says: "Protein we must have. We might 
indeed manage to live on protein alone, and out of it, with 
the aid of mineral saltSj We might renew the whole blood and 
build up any and every part of the body." However it would 

21 



22 The PracticcU Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

not be economical nor wise to do so. It is a serious mistake 
to even eat an excess of food rich in protein unless, of course, 
carbohydrates and fats are not obtainable. 

The following are the nitrogenous foods : meats, eggs, nuts, 
cheese, milk, beans, peas, lentils, and nearly all grains as 
wheat, corn, and oats have a high content of protein. Protein 
is known by its several names according to its source ; albumen 
in eggs, protein in meats, gluten in grains, casein in milk. 
These are all physiologically the same. Hence it is well to 
bear in mind that when meat is served, eggs, beans, nuts, or 
cheese should not constitute a part of the same meal, unless 
it is necessary to regard the individual tastes of the partici- 
pants. Meats with beans, or nut salad, or any other food rich 
in protein, at the same meal is physiologically wrong. It 
means an excess of protein elements, and throws an undue 
amount of work upon the eliminative organs, and may cause 
the accumulation of urea. If the excess of protein be of 
animal origin and it is not absorbed, the action of putrefactive 
bacteria in the intestines may give rise to toxic poisons and pro- 
duce various diseases of which autointoxication is the most 
prominent, or there may be a reabsorption of body poisons which 
are often the forerunner of various functional and acute di- 
seases. Hence an excess of protein can only be justified in the 
absence of energy and heat producing foods, in which case it 
acts in their capacity to some degree. 

In the Voit standard the amount of protein required daily 
is from ninety to one hundred and fifty grams according to 
the amount and kind of work performed. Professor Chitten- 
den's more recent investigations have convinced himself and 
other prominent physiologists that the Voit standard is too 
high. Chittenden places the standard for ordinary work at 
fifty grams, which is a little more or less than one-half pound 
of beef or other similar meat, or four eggs, or one- fourth 



Classification of Foods 23 

pound of cheese. This amount of protein will meet the 
requirements of the average adult, considering that the bread, 
milk and other foods eaten contain some protein. 

Carbonaceous Foods. 

The carbohydrates combine the starches and the sugars. 
Qiemically they are classified, but for practical purposes, since 
all starches are converted into sugar during the process of 
digestion and both are heat and energy producers, the starches 
and sugars are grouped. The latest advanced ideas are that 
a liberal amount of the heat and ener<Tv producing foods, with 
a low protein diet, is advisable. This idea is accepted by the 
best authorities. 

For physiological and economic reasons, the value 
of the foods in this group and their possible ef- 
fects upon the system must be considered. A pound of sugar 
yields many times the number of calories of heat and energy 
that the amount of potatoes costing the same will yield ; hence, 
from a pecuniary consideration the sugar would seem more 
economical than potatoes or similar foods. However, for 
pathological reasons such concentrated forms of carbohydrates 
as sugar, syrups, confections, preserves and the like are not 
advisable, except in great moderation. They cause many 
digestive disturbances, and diseases which arise therefrom. We 
should look for our supply of carbohydrates more largely from 
the fruits and vegetables, where they arc found in their 
natural and less concentrated forms. 

Carbohydrates are found both in the animal and vegetable 
kingdom, but are more abundant in the latter; in fact, the 
amount is so small in the former as to remain incidental. 
Therefore, the vegetable class only will be considered. Pota- 
toes, Irish and sweet, com, wheat, oats, barley, rice, maca- 
roni, tapioca, arrowroot^ sago, cornstarch, white flour are 



24 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

rich in starch. The reader will bear in mind that the grains 
contain protein also, as will be seen in the table on the composi- 
tion of foods. Dates, figs, prunes, raisins, pears, grapes, 
bananas, and honey are rich in fruit sugar. Syrups, con- 
fections, molasses, jellies, jams, fruit butters, preserves, are 
all concentrated forms of cane sugar and glucose. 

FATS. 

Fats, like carbohydrates, furnish one of the sources from 
which the carbon required by the body is obtained. Besides 
this, it fulfills other bodily needs. However, there is not much 
in the way of scientific evidence that helps determine the 
various capacities in which fats are used. In addition to 
supplying fuel it is stored up by the body as fatty tissue, and 
is held in suspense for future use. 

Fats are derived from the animal and vegetable kingdom. 
They are obtained from either source in abundant quantities. 
Animal fats consist of butter, cream, lard, tallow, suet, and 
fish oils. Vegetable fats consist of olive oil, cotton oil, cocoa 
oil, nut oil, corn oil, palm oil, almond oil, sesame oil, etc. 
Physiologists are agreed that some animal fats, as lard, are 
difficult of digestion and often give rise to digestive disturb- 
ances. The highly refined vegetable fats are preferable from 
a pathological and culinary consideration because of their 
delicacy and the ease with which they are absorbed in pro- 
portion to animal fats, with the exception of cream and butter. 
In any case fats ire digested and oxidized at a greater ex- 
penditure of energy than the carbohydrates, and therefore 
moderation should be exercised in their use. 

MINERAL SALTS. 

Minerals exist in foods in very minute quantities ; however, 
they play an important part in the scheme of nutrition. With- 
out them the bones oi the body would become flexible and per- 



Classification of Foods 25 

mit the body to collapse. Were it not for the microscopic 
speck of iron in the haemoglobin of the red corpuscles, the 
bloo<' would become iinpoverished and death ultimately result. 
Sulphur, phosphorus, potash, magnesia, potassium, and sodium 
all fill their respective offices in the demands of the body. 

The source of the minerah is found principally in vege- 
tables. Here it is secured in its organic state which renders 
it easy of assimilation. Spinach, celery, lettuce, onions, aspara- 
gus, cabbage, carrots, beets, radishes, okra, parsnips, kale, en- 
dive, salsify, squash, pumpkin, tomatoes, cucumbers, and nu- 
merous others are valuable in supplying mineral salts provided 
they are cooked properly and not parboiled. In addition to sup- 
plying nourishment the vegetables are preeminently valuable in 
supplying bulk which is essential to good digestion and normal 
elimination. 



CHAPTER IV. 

READ THE LABELS. 

PURE food laws now require that the labels upon each and 
every canned product must state in plain language the com- 
position of the contents. This information protects only those 
who read the label against the use of undesirable and inferior 
articles. But do not accept all foods guaranteed by the manu- 
facturer under the Pure Food and Drug Act of June 30, 1906, 
as being above suspicion. Our pure food laws as they stand 
to-day (1913), can be so juggled that they serve mostly as a 
deep shadow behind which unscrupulous manufacturers of 
foods may conceal themselves. Many deceptions are prac- 
ticed, and a guarantee of purity is not a guarantee of whole- 
someness. Example, alum baking powders containing from 
fifteen to twenty-one per cent, alum are pure, but it does not 
follow that the use of such a product would not prove in- 
jurious. Jellies, jams, and preserves may, and often do con- 
sist principally of gelatine, sugar, and glucose artificially colored 
and flavored, and our laws permit the use of the name of the 
fruit on the label corresponding to the flavoring used. Hence, 
one may eat strawberry, raspberry, or any other flavor of jelly, 
of certain commercial brands, that contain a very small per- 
centage, if any, of the natural fruit juice. Such foods, as they 
are labeled, are a deception to the unwary consumer. The 
above examples explain how manufacturers can, and do evade 
the real intent of the law, or rather the public's opinion of the 
meaning of the law. The pure food law does not prohibit the 
manufacturing and sale of objectionable products. It merely 
requires that the manufacturer inform the consumer, through 
the label on the article, the ingredients in the contents. 

£6 



Read the Labels 27 

Refuse to purchase foods containing preservatives, artificial 
flavors or artificial coloring matter. Fruit and vegetable 
products consisting only of fruits and vegetables free from de- 
cay, and canned under clean, sanitary conditions do not require 
the use of preservatives. Hence, any label stating and admit- 
ting the use of chemicals is an open acknowledgment on the 
part of the manufacturer of the inferiority of that product. 

Glucose. 

Glucose, another food product afraid to face the light under 
its true name, has in the past, and does at the present time, 
1913, by permission of the government hide behind the guise 
of corn syrup. The commercial corn syrup sold as food pro- 
ducts are not syrups made from corn, but are starch (often 
com starch) changed chemically to glucose by being boiled 
with dilute acid, and the glucose blended with a by-product 
of cane sugar. * It is not wholesome. Pure glucose — a form 
of invert sugar — can be produced from cane sugar, but is 
not manufactured and sold commercially a^ a food product. 

Do not be confused with the idea that commercial glucose 
corresponds to the glucose produced in the normal digestion 
of starch. 

Candies and Ice Cream. 

Many cheap candies contain a large percentage of glucose. 
Parafine is used to make them hold up longer. Shellac is 
sometimes used to produce glossiness. Coal tar dyes (poisons) 
are often used in bright colored candies. Unless it is possible 
to determine the wholesomeness of candy, the ingredients that 
enter into it, and the conditions of the factory, mothers are 
justified in making candy, rather than depending upon the 
commercial product. However, children should be allowed to 
eat candy only in moderation. An excessive amount of sweets 
encourages catarrhal conditions. 



28 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Many soda fountain products are artificially colored and 
flavored, and many commercial ice creams invite suspicion, 
The legislation in regard to these things is .indeed lax, hence 
the reasons for discretion on the part of the consumer are 
obvious. 

It is in place here for the author to advise mothers against 
permitting their children to indulge in those drinks served at 
the soda fountains that are harmful. The fruit juices, the t^gg 
and milk drinks are excellent, healthful and nutritious, but 
the carbonated water drinks are ruinous to the stomach. 

Poods Exposed to Filth. 

The public's sense of cleanliness and its fear of disease is so 
dormant that in every city it is not an uncommon thing to see 
foods which are eaten without washing or cooking, exposed to 
the filth of the streets and the dust of the air. • Breads, cakesi 
candies, butter, cheese, pickled, cured and cooked meats, figs, 
dates, and raisins are in many markets exhibited without a 
pretense of covering. 

It would show extreme carelessness to cook rice, beans, 
etc., without washing them. However, the heat when cooking 
these foods would overcome to a degree the injury that might 
result from the dirt they contained if not washed. If these 
foods require such attention — ^and they surely do — is it not 
evident that unless pastries, candies, ready to serve meats and 
similar foods are protected from the dust and the filth that 
they are unfit for consumption. It would be somewhat dif- 
ficult to attempt to wash such foods; however it is evident 
that they are more in need of cleansing than those foods to 
which heat is applied. 

It is unfortunate that our sense of cleanliness does not re* 
quire that all foods that it is impossible to wash and are eateil 
without cooking, be exhibited in dust proof, glass cases. The 



Read the Labels 29 

dealer who has provided cases and proper protection for all 
food products that cannot be freed from dirt before they are 
eaten, deserves the patronage of all those who are in- 
terested in the advancement of health and have respect and 
consideration for cleanliness. 



CHAPTER V. 

BABY'S FOOD AND CARE OF CHILDREN. 



THE best one can do is to offer suggestions and lay down 
general rules to assist mothers in the care and guidance 
of their little ones. 

First of all, the subtle power of pre-natal influence should be 
realized and understood. And the mother, with all the fervor, 
earnestness, cheerfulness and sweetness of her being, should 
be enamored with the advent of a little one coming into her 
home. 

Fail of nothing that lies within your power to give to 
your child a legacy of health and life. It is the birthright of 
every child to be well-bom. Mother, strive honestly, earnestly, 
intelligently and lovingly to rightly enjoy the most divine 
and sublime gift of God — that of motherhood. 

Labor intelligently to develop the highest degree of health. 
Think right. Dress right. Eat right. Exercise mind and 
body. Surround yourself, body and soul, with the blessings and 
joys of living. If you make failures, falter not; upon the fail- 
ures of yesterday you build for tomorrow, the palaces of suc- 
cess. 

On the ladder of courage, intelligence, perseverance and love, 
scale the barrier of pain and ill health that stands in the path 
of happiness of thousands of mothers. 

Mother, your child is but a delicate piece of clay that lies in 
your hands, to train into beauty or to harden into misshapen 
ugliness. With tenderness, loving labor, and prayer, beautify 
and glorify your life and your child's life. 

30 



Baby's Food and Care of Children 31 

Baby's Pood. 

Herein lies the most important factor of your child's pres- 
ent and future health and happiness. Proper and hygienic 
clothing and an abundance of pure air are, of course, essential ; 
but see to it that food is supplied in proper quantity and quality. 

No imitation food thus far has been found to equal mother's 
milk for the baby. Neither is this because of a lack of effort to 
supply a suitable substitute. The best medical experts support 
the opinion that nourishment from the breast of a healthy 
mother is the natural and best food for the babe, but unfortu- 
nately, for diflferent reasons, mothers often fail in this duty; 
and the money-making propensities of some men have caused 
A delugie of proprietary foods as substitutes iot mothers' milk» 
With persistent and flamboyant advertising, they have forced 
their preparations upon the attention of the public until they 
are looked upon by maiiy as being a good thing; and hence 
furnish a sufficient excuse for indifferent mothers, and those 
women who have selfish and social ambitions. The truth is that 
almost all these foods are more or less fraudulent, in that they 
are represented as resembling mothers' milk in organic compo- 
sition, although in reality they are only modified cows' milk. 
However, by reason of their advertising advantages, the pro- 
prietors can prey upon the ignorance of the people and extort 
exorbitant prices. Better foods at a moderate cost can be pre- 
pared in the home. 

"So large is the mortality of bottle-fed babies, that one can 
come to no other conclusion than that the refusal or neglect of 
a mother to nurse her child, for any but the most necessary rea- 
sons, is little short of criminal. No consideration of personal 
convenience, nor of retaining the figure, nor of requirements 
of fashionable life, render neglect of this duty in the slightest 
degree excusable. The following reasons for artificial feeding 
are legitimate : when the mother has no flow of milk and can- 



7 



32 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

not be made to have any ; when the child does not thrive, and 
cannot be made to thrive by intelligent effort to improve the 
quality of the milk ; when the mother is aifected by some chronic 
disease (Bright's disease, epilepsy, tuberculosis, etc.), or when 
pregnancy occurs during nursing. Under these circumstances 
there must of necessity be found some substitute for the natural 
food."—/. B. S, King, M. D. 

The following instructions and formulas are taken from 
"Chemistry of Foods"— by J. B. S. King, M. D. In all of the 
author's researches he has not found anything so good and so 
adaptable. 

Milk Modifications. 

Milk nowadays is generally dispensed in cities and towns in 
wide-mouthed so-called quart bottles; they often hold one 
ounce less than a quart, but they serve a very good purpose as 
a convenient measure for the household modification of milk. 
The milk if received as it came from the cow, may be 
called four per-cent. milk, the four per cent, here referring to 
the fat. 

When such a bottle is allowed to stand undisturbed until the 
cream rises to the top, the upper third of it contains about ten 
per cent, fat and may be referred to as ten per cent, milk, while 
the upper half contains seven per cent, fat and may be called 
seven per cent. milk. The upper third and the upper half of 
such a quart bottle are the units used in the following formulas, 
and may be obtained either by decantation — thatns by carefully 
pouring off those parts of the contents of the bottle — or, more 
accurately, by using a small dipper made for the purpose and 
sold for a trifle, under the name of Chapin's dipper. As the 
necessity of using one-half and one-third of a bottle, and also for 
measuring twenty fluid ounces, continues for sometime, it is 
in the interests of accuracy to paste a piece of paper half an 



Baty^s Food and Care of Children H 

inch wide from the bottom of one of these bottles to the top, 
and to mark it at the one-half, and also at the two-thirds or 
twenty fluid ounce heights. A little melted paraffin brushed 
rapidly, while hot, over the paper will prevent its being washed 
off when the bottle is cleansed. A bottle marked in this man- 
ner, can be kept for a measure. The milk is allowed to stand 
in its original bottle or other vessel until the cream rises, and 
then it is poured or dipped off into the graduated bottle up to 
the desired mark. 

This plan of using the upper third or the upper half of a 
quart bottle, that is, ten per cent, and seven per cent, milk, is 
that which Holt recommends in his "Diseases of Infancy and 
Childhood," and of the many methods that have been advised, 
it is the most satisfactory and successful for use in the home. 

After it has been determined that the mother cannot nurse 
her taby, for good and sufficient reasons, we must select such 
a modified milk as is adaptable, so far as possible, to the age and 
condition of the infant. For infants of three months and under, 
third milk is used, according to the following formulas. If the 
child is of ordinary vigor and averagie size the following mix- 
ture may be given to start on : 

Milk-Sugar, 1 oz. (one rounding tablespoonful). 

Lime- Water, 1 oz. (two tablespoonfuls). 

Ten per cent. Milk, 4 oz. (eight tablespoonfuls). 

Hot water to make the whole measure twenty ounces. This 
will probably agree with most infants at this age. It is alkaline 
in reaction and contains : 

2 per cent. Fat. 
6 per cent. Sugar. 
0.66 per cent. Protein. 
This is too weak to be ideal ; the protein is less than half as 
much as is usually contained in mothers' milk, but owing to 
the inherent tendency of cows' milk to form large curds, this 



/ 



34 The PracHcal Hygienic Preparation of Poois 

deficiency of protein is permitted at first. In feeble, undersized 
or delicate infants, it is wise to begin with even a weaker milk 
and as the digestive powers grow stronger to increase the 
^strength gradually (ounce at a time), until it is as strong as 
4ihe infant's digestion will bear. For such cases the protein 
:and fat may be reduced one-half. 

Milk-Sugar 1 02. 

Lime-Water 1 oz. 

10 per cent. Milk , . .2 oz. 

Hot water •enough to make 20 oz. 

The percentage composition of this is : 

1. per cent. Fat. 
6. per cent. Sugar. 
.33 per cent. Protein. 

After about a week the food should be made stronger by 
using three ounces of the ten per cent, milk, and the next week 
by using four ounces, and so on until eight ounces are used, the 
additions being one ounce at a time, and made every week or 
every two weeks, according to the infant's growth. When the 
amount of fat reaches four per cent., by doubling the amount 
of the ten per cent, milk of the first formula, the composition is : 

4. per cent. Fat. 
6.50 per cent. Sugar. 
1.33 per cent. Protein. 

With this the limit of the ten per cent, milk is about reached, 
and the infant is probably just passing to the fourth month of 
its existence. 

"The sugar of milk in the ten per cent, milk is sufficient to 
bring that constituent in the last formula up to 6.50 per cent. 
For infants over the third month, ten per cent, milk is too weak 
in protein and the seven per cent, or upper half milk comes into 
use. If the child thrives properly on the last mixture, it may 



Baby's Food and Care of Children 35 

soon pass to the closest imitation possible of mothers' milk, 
made according to the following formula: 

Milk-Sugar 1 oz. 

Lime- Water 1 oz. 

Seven per cent. Milk. .12 oz. (24 tablespoonfuls) 
Hot water enough to make 20 oz. 
The percentage composition of this is : 

4 per cent. Fat. 

7 per cent. Sugar. 

2 per cent. Protein. 

On comparing this with the analysis of mothers' milk it will 
be found identical. 

Whichever of the various strengths is used, the results 
should be watched and further changes made if necessary, ac- 
cording to the conditions. 

Constipation usually calls for a reduction in the protein and 
an increase in the fat, one or both. If curds appear in the 
stools the condition may be removed by going back temporarily 
to the use of upper third milk. If vomiting occurs soon after 
feeding, it may be due to too rapid feeding, or to too large a 
meal being given, or to an old, foul, ill-smelling nipple; but if 
none of these is at fault, the cause may be put down to too 
great strength of fat or protein, one or both, and the dilution 
may be increased. 

The last formula given most closely resembles mothers* 
milk, but is not the best to begin with. It does resemble the 
natural product in composition, but, owing to the inherent in- 
digestibility of the casein of cows' milk, it is better to begin 
with a weaker preparation and then increase in strength as time 
goes on. It is much easier to increase the richness of the mix- 
ture than to lessen it after the baby's stomach has been deranged 
by an attack of indigestion. Increasing the strength of the 
mixture gradually, by an ounce at a time, is a good rule. 



36 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

"Put just enough food in the bottle for a single feeding; if 
any is left, throw it away ; never offer it a second time to the 
baby. This last rule should be looked after sharply. Trans- 
gression often means sickness and death.' " 

Intervals. 

The interval between feedings should be carefully regulat- 
ed. It is often diffictdt to get some mothers and nurses to 
observe regularity in this respect. Crying and fretting is not a 
sufficient reason to break the rule and feed between the proper 
intervals. i . -> 

From birth up to about the third month, there should be an 
interval of about two hours between the meals during the day- 
time, and one feeding or at most two during the night ( 10 p. 
m. to 5 a.m.), or ten feedings during the twenty- four hours. 

"Towards the close of the third month, increase the inter- 
vals to three hours, and reduce the number of meals to six in 
twenty-four hours. A gradual increase in the intervals and 
a decrease in the number of feedings should be observed until 
the end of the first year, when the ideal for most babies would 
be an interval of five hours. The amount of food consumed 
at each meal must, of necessity, vary with different children, 
and exact quantities as recommended in some books, cannot be 
observed. In the early days of life, small infants will be satis- 
fied with one ounce or less ; larger ones require one and a half 
ounces or more. At the end of the first year a healthy baby 
will take from eight to ten ounces at a single feeding. The 
gradual increase in the weight of the child after the second 
week is the best test of success. Loss of weight is a danger sig- 
nal, but quiet sleep is a very favorable sign. 

"In exceptionally delicate and small babies — although size 
and delicacy are not entirely interchangeable terms, for 
difficult babies, babies with idiosyncrasies, babies that 



Baby's Pood and Care of Children 37 



have bad nights and do not gain as steadily as is desirabh 
magic results are often gained by substituting thin oat meal or 
barley gruel in place of water, in the above formulas. 
One heaping teaspoonful of rolled or granulated oats 
boiled in a quart of water in an uncovered vessel until reduced 
by evaporation to the measure of twenty ounces, makes a thin 
gruel when strained that serves to overcome the difficulties of 
some of these difficult infants." — J. B. S. King, Af . D, 

Milk-sugar makes a better sweetener than cane sugar. It 
requires about double the amount of milk-sugar to produce the 
same taste. 

Supplying Milk. 

Nothing short of the best is good enough. If good milk is 
not to be obtained conveniently, one is doubly justified in exert- 
ing special efforts to obtain such. If fresh, clean milk cannot 
be procured, or if milk is under suspicion, it is safer to sterilize 
it ; however, sterilization detracts from the nourishing qualities 
and should never be resorted to unless necessity demands. 

Milk from two or more cows — ^providing all are healthy — 
is better than from one cow. 

Care of Milk and Its Receptacles. 

Vessels and nursing bottle should be kept scrupulously clean. 
This fact needs emphasizing, for unfortunately some mothers 
and nurses, from carelessness or lack of interest, or time, are 
prone to neglect this all-important duty; but a little time and 
work devoted to this will often save days and weeks of work 
and worry, and nursing a sick, fretful babe. Very often 
through negligence the foundation for a lifetime of ill-health 
is laid. 

Subjecting the milk bottles, the nursing bottle and the nipple 
to boiling water, and washing them frequently in a weak sblu- 
tiotl of bicarbonate of soda will suffice to keep them dean and 



38 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Poods 

sweet. If it is possible, exercise some authority over the milk- 
ing; see that the cow's udder is brushed or washed if needs be, 
before each milking. Milk should be strained immediately aft- 
er milking and cooled as quickly as possible, then put into quart 
bottles, corked and placed in a refrigerator or other cold place. 

Cessation of Nursing Period. 

This of necessity must be controlled to some extent by 
various influences — the health and condition of the child, the 
health and strength of the mother if the baby has been fed 
from the breast, or the ability to provide good milk if bottle-fed. 
The physiological time is at about the age of ten months. How- 
ever, this may be lengthened or shortened to some extent. It 
is safer to lengthen time when possible. Fourteen months is a 
very desirable age to begin outside feeding. If the mother's 
milk becomes insufficient at any time, diluted cows' milk may be 
substituted and continued until then. 

One often observes parents (especially fathers) indulging 
their children with bits of food ; jelly, sweets, sour pickle, pie, 
etc., to enjoy the cute expressions of their little one. This 
practice is nothing short of criminal, and a parent should never 
be guilty of such an act. Babies would seldom, if ever, suffer 
with colic if excessive amounts of sugar and outside foods 
were not allowed. 

Foods for Children. 

Milk, eggs, cereals, fruits should be the principal foods dur- 
ing the peribd of childhood. Butter, oil, and moderate amounts 
of fresh rtieat should form a part of the regular diet 
Sweets, candies, preserves, pies, pickles, puddings, cakes, tea, 
coflFee, beer, etc., have no place in the healthful diet of children. 
Their influences are most baneful. It is these pernicious foods 
that are robbing hundreds, nay thousands, of children of their 
health and happiness, and parents are largely responsible. 



Baby's Food and Care of Children 39 

Give your children a sufficient amount of good, nourishing, 
simple food (not an over-abundance) to supply the normal 
demands of their growing bodies, dress them right, ventilate 
their bedrooms properly, bathe them sufficiently to keep their 
bodies clean, and nature will take care of the rest. 



CHAPTER VI. 

KITCHEN EQUIPMENT. 



Since the kitchen is the workshop of the home, and is the 
department upon which the health and welfare of the family 
so largely depend, is it not evident that an outlay of money 
sufficient to properly equip that department is doubly justifia- 
ble? A workman, to execute his labor with skill, requires the 
necessary tools. Skilled, intelligent work is more essential 
in the kitchen than in any other department of science or art. 
Hence, it requires intelligence linked with equipment to make 
the best ordered kitchen serve its intended purpose. 

Money is often a consideration that must be reckoned with, 
but let sacrifices be made in other parts of the house rather 
than in the kitchen. However, the necessary expense is com- 
paratively small and should be met by the average family 
without special effort. 

The stove, tables, refrigerator, kitchen cabinet or other 
similar cupboard, constitute the necessary furniture. The 
following list of articles represents the utensils required to 
do ordinary cooking. This list may be modified, but if cur- 
tailed will mean an extra expenditure of labor which in a 
short time is more than equivalent to the cost of utensils. 
2 vegetable kettles. 1 double boiler. 

2 sauce pans with lids and 1 teakettle. 

handles. 1 steamer on steam cooker. 

2 sauce pans with lids. 2 baking dishes. 

1 bread box. 2 casseroles with lids. 

1 spice cabinet. 1 roaster. 

40 



Kitchen Equipment 



41 



1 broiling iron. 
1 griddle. 

1 frying pan. 

4 kettle lids. 

5 custard cups. 

2 granite quart cups. 
2 half gallon buckets. 

food chopper, 
puree sieve. 

almond and vegetable shred- 
der, 
small nutmeg grater, 
coffee pot. 
tea pot. 
potato ricer. 
large salt shake, 
potato masher, 
salt box. 
pepper shake, 
emory sharpening stone, 
lemon squeezer, 
can opener with cork screw, 
clock, 

doughnut cutter, 
biscuit cutter, 
funnel. 

2 long bread pans. 

3 oblong bread pans. 
2 layer cake pans. 

1 loaf cake pan with tube. 
1 mixing board. 



rolling pin. 
agate mixing bowl, 
small wooden mixing bowl, 
flour sieve, 
egg beater, 
egg whip, 
spatula. 

measuring cups, 
wooden mixing spoon, 
granite mixing spoon. 
6 tablespoons. 

1 wire spoon. 
6 teaspoons. 

2 paring knives. 

2 butcher knives. 

3 half gallon crocks. 
2 dish pans. 

1 drip pan. 
1 bread knife. 
1 carving knife. 
1 carving fork. 
1 meat fork. 
6 table forks. 
1 flour scoop. ^ 
1 vegetable brush. 
1 utensil brush. 
1 wire brush. 
1 soap dish. 

1 pad and pencil. 

2 asbestos plates. 
2 asbestos lifters. 



42 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Avoid Cheap Utensils. 

Cheap utensils are not an economical investment because it 
means continual replacing. Granite ware when once chipped 
should not be used in the preparation of any food. The small 
particles that break off and are mingled with the food are 
dangerous. Tinware is not durable, and, because of the action 
of acids upon tin, it is a menace to health if used in cooking 
foods containing acids. 

The most economical and satisfactory cooking utensils are 
the high grades of agate ware, the standard brands of alumi- 
num ware, the best quality of granite ware, the durable earthen 
wares and porcelain. 

Aluminum is the most durable and is not injured by burn- 
ing, but is not to be recommended for use in th^ booking of 
foods conta-ining strong acids^ and niust never be cleaned with 
strong alkalies. Use only soap and water and a mild cleansing 
powder, and a wooden scraper to remove burned particles that; 
will not wash off. Metal scrapers scratch a^.d cut the metai. 



CHAPTER VIL 

THE VALUE OF STEAM COOKING. 



Why steam-cooked foods are not more popular, and why this 
method is not universally employed for vegetables, cereals, 
and some meats is difficult to understand, and can be explained 
only as a lack of progress and education in this direction. 
Either the steam cooker or the fireless cooker may be employed 
in steaming foods. 

« 

With the advent and introduction of the fireless cooker, 
some women awakened to the fact that in the kitchen also, 
there was room for improvement and advancement. But 
while this simple, perfected device stands ready to assist women 
in the saving of time, labor, and money, and to improve the 
quality of their cooking, yet there are comparatively few. 
kitchens in which one is in use. This can not be explained 
because of their cost, for investigation bears out the fact that 
they quickly pay for themselves in the saving of fuel, labor, 
and time. 

The steam cooker, of which there are several different 
styles, has not been used with the enthusiasm it warrants.. 
This is also a labor-saving device, and eliminates the possibility 
of burned foods and burned pans ; but, with all these desirable 
features in its favor, it is found in use in comparatively few 
kitchens. 

A steam or fireless cooker is indispensable to every household 
where wholesome foods and a reduction of time in their 
preparation is a consideration ; and the author encourages every 
reader of this book to employ this method of cooking whenever 
possible. 

43 



CHAPTER VIIL 

MASTICATION. 

THE value and necessity of thorough mastication in con- 
nection with good health cannot be too strongly empha- 
sized. An entire volume could be devoted to this all-important 
subject. However, it is not my purpose to go into detail, but I 
want to state some of the most important facts. In order to get 
a complete and detailed knowledge of the subject, I would refer 
you to Mr. Horace Fletcher's book, "The A. B. Z. of Our Own 
Nutrition." Mr. Fletcher is an authority on the subject, and 
he presents the facts in a plain, instructive, intelligent manner. 

The mastication of food is the only part of the digestive 
process over which we have voluntary control ; and, that nature 
intended that the food should be broken up by the teeth and 
dissolved in the mouth, is attested by the very fact that she supH 
plied us with the necessary machinery for that purpose. Hence, 
thorough mastication must be insisted upon if we would derive 
the greatest amount of pleasure from our meals, and the great- 
est amount of good from what we eat. 

The rapid manner in which some, or most people bolt their 
food, as though they were trying to get down the largest possi- 
ble amount in the least possible time, is unquestionably respon- 
sible to a greater or less degree for many of the digestive dis- 
orders, and many of the blood and kidney diseases as well. 

The sound, well-preserved condition of the teeth, to extreme 

old age, of all primitive people, is largely due to the fact that 

with them very little sugar was used, and a very limited supply 

•of cooked food was eaten, therefpre rendering laborious and 

sustained mastication absolutely necessary; hence, very little of 

the food, if any, -passed into the stomach without complete in- 

• salivation. 

44 



Mastication 45 

The saliva has the power of changing starch into sugar, and 
it is a physiological fact that all starchy foods must be mixed 
with the necessary amount of saliva for their complete diges- 
tion. In this modem age, man lives almost exclusively upon 
cooked foods, and his saccharine supply has been greatly multi- 
plied, and the large quantities of starch foods which have been 
freed of their cellulose tissue by milling, grinding, etc., are 
converted into soft, spongy, soggy, and pappy foods in the form 
of fresh white breads, puddings, cakes, and similar foods, and 
then eaten without any pretense of masticating them, which un- 
doubtedly accounts for many of the digestive disorders in the 
form of heartburn, flatulency, hyperchlorhydria, and other gas- 
tric disorders. 

These digestive disorders may cont-nue almost unnoticed, but 
they in turn bring on catarrhal conditions or impure blood, and 
a sluggish circulation which causes many other complicated 
conditions. Hence, it is evident that improper mastication is 
often the cause, in a direct or indirect way, for many diseases 
attributed to other causes. But, if we take one step further and 
trice the cause of improper mastication and rapid eating, we 
must admit that it is the soft, semiliquid, unhygienic prepara- 
tion of nearly all foods that encourages people to swallow their 
meals without chewing. 

Parents cannot render their children a better service than to 
teach them to thoroughly masticate every mouthful of food, 
either solid or semiliquid ; and when the habit is once formed, 
it is not likely to be forgotten. 

One only need visit the restaurants, hotels, or indeed the 
average home, to be convinced that people eat as though their 
very lives depended on getting through in the shortest possi- 
ble time. 



CHAPTER IX. 

CURING DISEASE BY DIET. 



Nature always favors health and tends to cure disease when 
the inciting causes are removed. 

Rapid advances have been made in this branch of therapeu- 
tics. In addition to the interest aroused by the action of the 
medical profession, individuals have stimulated much enthu- 
siasm in the treatment of disease by diet, which has resulted 
in the cure of many diseases that refused to yield to other 
remedial agents. Through these cures the value of correct 
diet has made itself so manifest that it is considered to be a 
therapeutic agency of great import. 

Nearly all functional and many acute diseases have ori- 
gin in the digestive organs, and yield obedience to nature's 
forces and disappear when the irritating causes are removed. 
This is so evident that all progressive physicians place special 
emphasis upon correct feeding. 

All useful healing forces are subject to abuse when in the 
hands of "quacks," and diet is not an exception. Many of 
the "health journals" have been the instruments through which 
unfounded ideas have been disseminated, that scientific in- 
vestigations prove to be false. Hence, it is profitable to the 
sick person to evade those theories which do not receive the 
support of physiologists. 

The word "diet" has become so hackneyed that it often meets 
a rebellious spirit when it is recommended. To most people 
it carries with it the bread and water idea, the starvation cure, 
fasting and misery. Hence, in the diet lists we have included 

46 



Curing Disease hy Diel 47 

every food of value and all foods that will prove unharmf ul to 
the patient. 

For indigestion, rheumatism, and nervousness, the author 
would urge moderation, and would limit the patient to two 
meals a day. In these diseases the system requires rest and 
an opportimity to eliminate waste matter and poisons. Tu- 
berculosis is the only disease where over-feeding can 
be recommended, and then not to the extent that the digestive 
organs are overburdened. 

Diet has restored to health a vast number of sick people, and 
the author urges those suffering from the diseases for which 
the lists are prepared to give the one for the disease frojn 
which they suffer a thorough and extended trial. It is the 
one treatment without cost 

DIET LISTS. 

In selecting foods from these lists, the patient must bear 
in mind that individual peculiarities must be taken into 
consideration. Occasionally a patient finds that some foods 
produce ill effects, and in this sense he should allow his good 
judgment to direct him, and avoid such food a second time. 
However, avoid being over-concerned about eating any- 
thing included in these lists. The mental attitude has much 
to do with influencing or discouraging digestion, and if, when 
partaking of a food, one feels alarmed and questions his 
ability to digest it, the symptoms anticipated always 
arise; eat, and then forget you have a stomach. 

In these lists each food has its specific and peculiar value, 
and it is because of an idiosyncrasy if some fail to agree 
with certain cases. 

Bear in mind the following suggestions and persevere : 

Remember — It's what we digest and not what we eat that 
nourishes our bodies. An overloaded stomach means impaired 



48 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

digestion and clc^ged eliminative channels, which permit and 
encourage the growth of disease producing bacteria. Toxic 
poisons are produced and reabsorbed into the system, and 
diseases arise. 

Remember — The food value and medicinal properties in 
foods depend much upon the methods employed in cooking. 

Remember — To masticate your food ; the stomach is not sup- 
plied with teeth. 

Remember — ^Water is a great cleanser, and at least two 
quarts should be taken daily : drinking a glassful upon arising 
and before retiring is a splendid habit to form. 

Remember — The bodily repairs are carried on more rapidly 
during sleeping hours. "Early to bed and early to rise" is a 
habit worth forming. 

Remember — The body eliminates much waste through the 
pores of the skin and frequent bathing is imperative. A 
friction bath each morning stimulates the circulation. 

Remember — Fresh air is as plentiful as stagnant, polluted 
air ; hence, breathe pure air. Throw every window in the room 
open upon retiring at night. 

Remember — A happy disposition meets discouragements with 
a smile. 



GENERAL DEBILITY. 

Select from and eat only the foods included in the following 
lists. 

Breakfast Foods. 

Oat meal, rolled oats, farina, cream of wheat, graham por- 
ridge. Eat these foods with cream. Use sugar very spar- 
ingly. 

Meats and Eggs. 

Beef, mutton, fowl, fish. Meats may be broiled, roasted, or 
steamed. Eggs poached, coddled, or raw. 



Curing Disease by Diet 49 

Vegetables. 

Irish and sweet potatoes, steamed or baked, corn, carrots, 
parsnips, beets, kale, celery, lettuce, spinach, onions, cauliflower, 
okra, squash, tomatoes, endive. Prepare as directed in chapter 
on v^etables. 

Breads. 

Entire wheat bread, graham bread, graham gems, cornmeal 
muffins, beaten biscuits. 

Fruits and Desserts. 

Baked or steamed apples, raw or baked pears, raw or canned 
peacheSy oranges, grapes, grape fruit, bananas, prunes, melons, 
berries, pineapple, custards, ice creams, rice puddings, tapioca 
puddings. 

Drinks. 

Water, milk, buttermilk, malted milk, cocoa. Drink an 
cggnog or an egg malted-milk every night before retiring. 

Foods to Avoid. 

Avoid all fried foods, gravies, hot white breads, jellies, pre- 
serves, pickles, pastries of every description, tea, coffee. 

Habits Worth Cultivating. 

Sleep with the windows wide open winter and summer. 
Always provide sufficient covering to keep comfortably warm. 

Avoid becoming over fatigued, but perform some work, and 
take chest and abdominal exercises daily. Seek the sunshine. 
Act definitely in all matters. 



CONSTIPATION. 

This trouble can be corrected very quickly with diet and 
correct exercises. See chapter on exercising and adopt those 
recommended for constipation. Persist in taking them regu- 
larly. 



50 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Poods 

Avoid laxative medicines, they are a menace to health. 
They act as a poison and stimulate and arouse the organs into 
action until the system is relieved of the effects of the medicine, 
after which the exhausted organs lapse back into a weaker 
condition. The person that resorts to cathartics acts criminally 
against his own body. 

Drink freely of water, 

LAXATIVE FOODS. 

Breakfast Foods* 

Graham porridge, oat meal, cornmeal mush, rolled wheat. 

Vegetables. 

Spinach, kale, onions, tomatoes, corn, beet greens, dande- 
lions, asparagus, endive, okra, celery. 

Breads. 

Graham breads, graham muffins, cornmeal muffins, fruit 
gems, bran gems. 

Fruits. 

Prunes, figs, melons, apples, pears, oranges, grapes, raisins, 
huckleberries, rheubarb, plums, peaches, apricots. 

Neutral Foods. 

These may be used in moderation in combination with the 
laxative foods. 

Broiled, steamed, and roast meats, soft boiled and raw eggs, 
rice, peas, baked Irish potatoes, stewed squash, cream, ice 
cream, tapioca, bananas. 

Constipating Foods. 

Fried meats, brown gravies, hard boiled eggs, fried foods, 
of any description, milk, all kinds of cheese, nuts— especially 
peanuts, toast — extremely so — ^prepared breakfast foods tl^at 



Guring Disease by Diet 51 

have been toasted, white breads, preserves, jams, raspberries, 
blackberries. 

One of the neutral foods may be combined with two or three 
of the laxative foods for a meal, but see that the diet consists 
largely of the laxative foods. 

Take abdominal exercises daily and establish regular habits. 



WEAK DIGESTION. 

Weak digestion usually means over-burdened or worn out 
digestive organs, and in either case rest is required ; hence the 
patient usually finds relief by omitting one of the three meals 
each day. When adapting the two*meal-a-day plan, if possi- 
ble eat the morning meal between eight and ten, and the second 
meal in the evening. Bear in mind that the digestive organs 
require rest, hence not one mouthful of either solid or liquid 
food should be eaten between meals. Never eat unless normal 
hunger is present. 

Masticate all foods to a liquid. 

Cereals. 

Cream of wheat, farina, rolled oats. Eat these breakfast 
porridges with a liberal amount of cream. Omit sugar, use 
dates or figs for sweetening. 

Proteins. 

Eggs raw, coddled, or poached. Beef, mutton, fowl, and fish 
broiled, steamed, or roasted. 

Vegetables. 

Baked Irish potatoes, baked sweet potatoes, spinach, beets, 
carrots, onions, lettuce, celery, cauliflower, asparagus, water- 
cress, okra, etc. Prepare vegetables as directed in chapter 
on vegetables. 



52 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Breads. 

Graham breads, beaten biscuit, fruit gems, entire wheat 
breads. 

Fruits. 

All fruits that agree with the individual case. 

Avoid all fried foods, pastries, preserved fruits, jellies, 
pickles, tea, coffee, and condiments. 

Take exercises that bring into action the abdominal muscles. 
Keep the bowels in a normal condition ; if permitted to become 
sluggish, toxic bacteria multiply which produce poisons. 



OBESITY. 

Reduce the amount of food eaten daily, and restrict the 
diet to two or three articles at a meal. Avoid foods rich in 
fat or starch. 

Select Diet From the Following List. 

Buttermilk, sour milk, hard bread, eggs, vegetables, soups 
free from fat, apples, sour fruits, bananas, tomatoes, greens. 
Exercise and take daily walks. 



HYPERACIDITY. 

Avoid strong acids as vinegar and acid fruits. 

Avoid coarse and irritating foods or foods containing hulls. 

Avoid hot and highly seasoned foods and hot drinks. 

Avoid peel of fruit. 

Avoid tea and coffee. 

Eat liberally of fats — cream, butter, olive oil, and foods rich 
in fat. 

Frozen foods are desirable — ^ice cream, frozen custards, and 
frozen whipped cream. 



Curing Disease by Diet S3 

Proteins. 

Eggs — raw, coddled, or poached; beef, fowl, mutton, fish 
— ^broiled, steamed, or roasted. 

Vegetables. 

Potatoes, baked or steamed, spinach, beets, squash, celery, 
carrots, parsnips, cauliflower, lettuce, asparagus. 

Breads. 

Beaten biscuits. White bread — dried or slightly toasted. 

Fruits. 

Baked sweet apples, prunes, prune whip, pears stewed, pear 
sauce. 



RHEUMATISM AND NEtFRALGIA. 

Fruits. 

Grapes — eat freely of them when in season. Oranges, 
grapefruit; peaches, berries, prunesr-eat these fruits without 
sugar. 

Cereals. 

Farina, graham porridge, rolled oats, cream of wheat. Eat 
these porridges with cream, using dates, figs, or ripe bananas 
for sweetening. 

Protein. 

Eat sj)aringly of fish, white meat of fowl, eggs, raw or cod- 
dled. 

Vegetables. 

Tomatoes, spinach, lettuce, endive, cauliflower, asparagus, 
kale, okra, onions, radishes, carrots, turnips, parsnips, baked 
Irish potatoes, rice. 



54 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Breads. 

White breads more than twenty-four hours old, graham and 
cornmeal muffins and gems. 

Milk often aggravates a rheumatic condition, . and in such 
cases the patient should avoid it as well as other foods high in 
protein. 

Avoid all fried foods, all pastries, all sweets, tea, coffee. 



DIABETES. 

■ 

When possible, live on good buttermilk and sour milk alone 
— drinking from ten to fifteen glasses daily. This is one of 
the best known cures. When using sour milk, beat it with an 
egg beater until it becomes smooth. 

Soups. 

Chicken, mutton, and beef broth. Vegetables may be 
cooked in these meat stocks to make vegetable soups, except 
beets. 

Proteins. 

Broiled beef or mutton steaks. Roast or stewed beef, mut- 
ton, fowls, and fish. 

Poached or coddled eggs, cottage cheese. 

Vegetables. 

Celery, spinach, lettuce, tomatoes, onions, asparagus, cauli- 
flower, kale, endive, okra, green beans, dandelions. 

Breads and Porridges. 

Pure gluten bread^ gluten gems and muffins. Glutieii 
crackers, gluten porridges. 

Fruits. 
Grape fruit and oranges. 



Curing Disease by Diet 55 

Avoid all sugars^ pastries, all fried foods, tea, coffee, pep- 
per, and foods containing starch. 
Sleep with windows wide open. 



TUBERCULOSIS AND EMACIATION. 

Live in the open air constantly. 

For breakfast, dinner, and supper, beat up two strictly fresh 
eggs, add to them a glass of good milk, slightly sweeten and 
flavor. Drink this along with the meal. 

Meats. 

Broiled beef and mutton steaks. Roast, steamed, and baked 
fowl, beef, and mutton. Rare meats preferred. 

Use discretion in selecting meats and always purchase best 
quality. 

Cereals. 

Use any of the cereals that require cooking, and cook them 
slowly for an extended period of time — from one to three 
hours according to kind of cereal. 

Avoid all prepared and flaked breakfast foods. Eat liber- 
ally of cream on breakfast foods, but use sugar sparingly. 

Breads. 

Eat largely of the breads made of the burr ground graham 
flour. Muffins and gems made of this flour and cornmeal 
gems are desirable. 

Spreads. 

Buttier and honey. Avoid all jellies and jams. 

Vegetables. 

Baked Irish and sweet potatoes, corn, cari-ots, tomatoes, 
spinach, tdery, asparagus, cauliflower, red beets, Water-cresses, 
dandelions^ endive^ okra^ kalie. 



56 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Fruits. 

Eat raw and cooked fruits but avoid all preserved fruits. 

Avoid all fried foods and rich pastries. 

Your restoration to health depends largely upon your being 
able to build tissue more rapidly than the disease destroys it; 
and the more food one can digest without overburdening the 
digestive organs the greater the chances of regaining health. 

Never work or exercise until a feeling of fatigue is pro- 
duced. When possible take life easy and sleep twelve hours 
each day. 



CHAPTER X. 

CEREALS. 

THE foods that come under this head are the wheat, oats, 
corn and barley preparations in their various forms, in 
the way of porridges, etc. All these grains occupy a very 
important place in man's diet, and are preeminently nutritious. 
The analyses of these different grains differ somewhat in food 
elements, but there is not a very great contrast between any of 
them. They each contain at least one or more of the nitroge- 
nous food elements. They also abound in starch, and contain 
some sugar, fatty matter, and minerals. 

Wheat is undoubtedly the best one of these grains, because it 
ranks first as a balanced food. Its nutritious value is nearly 
three times that of meat. Indeed, we might say that it is a per- 
fect food in itself. 

The fact that grains are such valuable, healthful and nearly 
perfect foods in themselves, when properly prepared, is an 
argument in their favor. The diversity of their uses makes 
humanity more dependent upon them than upon any other 
food product. The scientific experiments made upon animals 
are a satisfactory proof that normal health can be maintained 
for a much greater period of time upon grains than upon any 
other food except milk. 

The prepared ready-to-eat breakfast foods that are advertised 
and used so extensively are to be viewed askance. It is 
not accepted by all physiologists that dextrinized starchy foods 
are an advantage except in cases where impaired starch di- 
gestion exists. The fact that they are dextrinized robs the 
digestive system of one of its normal functions. The sole 

67 



58 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

object of cooking should be to soften the food and break down 
the structual tissue, rendering it more palatable and easier of 
digestion. Any food changed chemically to any extent by 
artificial processes must be inferior in character as a result 
of the change; so little can be said in favor of dextrinized 
breakfast foods. They are exorbitant in price and yield little 
nourishment in proportion to the cereals which require cooking. 
The rolled wheat and oats and the granulated grain products 
are the best cereal foods. One of these cereals should con- 
stitute a part of every breakfast menu. 

Cooking Breakfast Foods. 

The digestibility and value of cereals depend largely upon 
their preparation. Great care should be exercised in cook- 
ing grains, as the tissue-building food elements that exist in 
grains in the form of gluten (vegetable protein) are easily 
affected chemically by a high degree of heat. Do not cook 
them too long. Cooking any food after it is done tends to 
destroy its vitality. One hour is sufficient time for any of 
the granulated grain products. When the whole wheat or 
barley grains, or hominy are used, they should be cooked from 
two to four hours. 

The steam-cooker, fireless-cooker, or double-boiler is neces- 
sary to properly prepare cereals. The steam-cooker is prefera- 
ble. Of course the cooker should be steam tight, then all the 
flavor and nutritious elements are retained. Furthermore, there 
\s no danger of the cereal burning. Foods of this character 
iare easily burned when cooked directly over the fire, thus de- 
teriorating the food, and burne:d porridge pianS are liot a pleas- 
ing sight to the busy house-wife. 



Serving and fialihg iPorridge. 

Prepare porridges rather stiff, to encourage mastication. The 
usual soft, pappy porridges indiicie rapid bating, and being 



Cereals 59 

hastily swallowed, do not permit of the necessary action of the 
saliva; hence, they pass through the stomach partially un- 
changed, and throw an undue amount of work upon the 
intestines. Discomfort and flatulence is often the result of fer- 
mentation, due to undigested starches. Complete insalivation 
will overcome these troubles. 

Cereals served with pitted dates, figs, raisins, sliced bananas, 
or fruit sauces are delicious. The fruit sugars are much more 
wholesome and more easily absorbed than the commercial 
product. The figs, dates, or raisins may be added while the 
porridge is cooking, if desired. They impart a rich, delicate 
flavor to the porridge in this way. Bananas or fruit sauces 
should be added to each serving. These are splendid substi- 
tutes for sugar, and encourage one to break away from the 
habit of excessive amounts of sugar on breakfast food which 
is not a good combination. 

Shredded nuts are also a splendid addition to cereals. 

Whole Wheat. 

Take one cupful of wheat, wash thoroughly, soak over night 
in one quart of water ; keep vessel closely covered. Inner ves- 
sel of double-boiler is good for this purpose. In the morning 
put double-boiler over fire and cook for three hours, or until 
grains are tender and burst. Add more water if needed. If 
desired for breakfast, cook the day previous and reheat* Ex* 
cellent served with sweet fruits and cream.- 

Cracked Whedt or Oats. 

'to one quart of malted water, add one cupful of cracked 
grain, cook thoroughly in steamer or double-boiler. TimeJ 
two hours. Add one cupful of seeded raisins fifteen minutes 
before done. Serve with cr^ahi^ 



60 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Rolled Wheat or Oats. 

These preparations require three parts water to one part 
wheat or oats. Cook in steamer or double-boiler from two to 
four hours. Add salt to the boiling water, then sprinkle the 
cereal in, stir constantly until it sets; then place in double- 
boiler or steamer to finish. 

Cream of Wheat. 

Sprinkle into three cupfuls of salted boiling water, one cup- 
ful of cream of wheat. Stir until it sets, then place in steamer 
or double-boiler, and cook from thirty to sixty minutes. Serve 
with butter and bananas. 

Farina. 

Prepare as cream of wheat. Milk may be used instead of 
water, if desired. 

AU-Grain. 

To one pint of salted boiling water or milk, add three- 
fourths cupful of all-grain, cook ten minutes. Serve with 
dates and cream. 

Graham Porridge. 

As for good bread, good graham flour is required for 
porridge. To three cupfuls of salted boiling water, add one 
cupful of course graham flour. Stir in slowly, keep water 
boiling. Cook for fifteen minutes. Immediately after it 
thickens, add one cupful of raisins or figs. Serve with cream. 

(A splendid laxative food.) 

Pearl Barley with Fruit. 

Carefully wash one cupful of pearl barley. Add it to five 
cupfuls of salted water, place in steamer, cook for three hours. 
Add cupful of raisins or chopped dates, thirty minutes before 
removing from cooker. 



Cereals 61 

Corn Meal Mush» 

To three cUpfuls of salted boiling water, add slowly one cup- 
ful of corn meal. Stir constantly until it sets. Cook in 
double-boiler or steamer one hour. Serve with cream or fruit 
sauce. 

Left-over Porridge. 

The left-over porridges can be converted into splendid des- 
serts by the addition of milk, eggs, and sugar. See desserts. 

Fruit Sauce for Porridges. 

Take steeped peaches, apricots, or prunes, rub through 
colander or puree sieve, add water until it is the proper con- 
sistency, slightly sweeten. Pour over each serving of cereal. 



CHAPTER XL 

BREADS. 

Notwithstanding the important place bread occupies in the 
economy of nutrition, it would be difficult for anything to be- 
come more deserving of just criticism than much of the bread 
baked at home and in the bakeries. Poor bread is the rule, 
good bread the exception. This, however, is not because of 
poor material with which to work, but is due to poor manage- 
ment of the dough. High grade flours can be purchased in 
any community. These flours will produce excellent bread 
when properly handled. Of course, there are slight differences 
and individual characteristics existing in flours which must be 
understood and dealt with accordingly. These characteristics 
are influenced by the effects of the soil and climatic conditions 
upon the grain, the grinding of the wheat, the hard and the soft 
wheats, their content of gluten, and the percentage of moisture 
in the grain. 

The content of gluten and the milling determines the ab- 
sorbing ability of flours. Hard wheat flours require a greater 
quantity of liquid than the soft wheat flours, hence the hard 
flours produce more loaves of bread, pound for pound, than 
the soft flours produce. 

To Test Flours. 

The number of women who understand the differences in 
hard and soft wheat flours is surprisingly small; and unless 
a woman is familiar with the qualities of each, and can deter- 
mine which she is using, she is at a great disadvantage. The 
dough for bread must be made stiflFer when soft flour is used. 
However, it cannot be said that this is a disadvantage, for 

62 



Breads 63 

equally as good bread can be produced from soft flour as 
from hard flour. The simplest test to make, to determine to 
which class the flour belongs, is to squeeze a hand full. If upon 
opening the hand, the flour remains packed it is soft, but if it 
will not pack the flour is hard. 

Graham Breads. 

In the milling of white flour some important constituents of 
the wheat berry are eliminated — the laxative elements and the 
phosphates. These, particularly the former, are valuable to 
many people. All persons of sedentary habits, especially if 
troubled with costiveness, should use breads made of the 
graham flour; its laxative nature greatly aids in preventing 
this diseased condition. Graham bread, if properly made, 
furnishes all the food elements required by the body in nearly 
their correct proportions, and might be termed a complete 
food in Itself, or what was proverbially styled the '*staff of 
life." 

The wife of a noted physician, a woman who has spent many 
years in study along the lines of hygienic foods and their re- 
lation to health, has said, "I believe that one of the strongest 
barriers women could erect against the inroads of intemper- 
ance, would be to supply the tables of the land with good bread 
made from the flour of entire wheat." 

The superiority of bread made of the entire grain flour has 
been proven beyond a doubt. We have at least several striking 
examples recorded in history, one of which took place in 
England during the administration of William Pitt. For sev- 
eral years there was such a scarcity of wheat, and a law .was 
passed by Parliament that the army should be supplied with 
bread made of the unbolted flour. Of course this occasioned 
many complaints on the part of the soldiers, but to the great 
surprise of all, the health of the army improved so wonderfully 



64 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

that it caused much comment, and the officers and physicians 
at last publicly announced that the soldiers had never before 
been in such robust and healthy condition. The American 
people might profit by such a law. However, the entire grain 
products are receiving much more attention to-day than for- 
merly. 

As a laxative food, the entire wheat bread (graham) occupies 
a preeminent position. True, it lacks popularity. This, how- 
ever, is the result of catering to what is pleasing in appearance 
rather than to taste and health. The flavor of graham is so 
far superior in richness, that when the taste is once educated to 
this flavor, white breads are not appreciated. 

Purchasing Graham Flour. 

When purchasing graham flour, insist on having the unbolted 
burr-ground. Satisfy yourself by investigation that it con- 
sists of the entire wheat kernel. This information can usually 
be obtained from the local miller, provided the flour comes 
from that source. Do not be deceived by the so-called entire 
or whole wheat flours found on the market. They invariably 
consist of the low-grade flours, bolted from the patent flours. 
Usually the local mill proves the most reliable source. 

Harmful Effects of Hot Breads. 

Our customs and habits rarely consider health an issue. 
We are prone to eat anything for which we have developed an 
appetite, and continue until nature rebels. Hot breads made 
of white flour are among those foods which must be accused 
of causing much ill health. These breads, unless masticated 
to a liquid are a tax upon the digestive organs, and give risq 
to many digestive disturbances. A law opposing the sale of 
hot white breads would be a move in the right direction. If 
hot breads are to be used, let them consist of breads, muifinsv. 
and gems made of the burr-ground, graham flour or of cora 



Breads 65 

These breads, because of the flour being granular in character 
are readily digested by mastication and the digestive processes. 

Making White Breads. 

It is difficult, or indeed impossible to furnish more than gen- 
eral ideas on this subject. 

The three requisites for good bread are good flour, good 
yeast, and right conditions. All three enter into the question of 
making good bread. 

For white bread, procure a good quality, high grade, patent 
flour. Usually the hard wheat flours are favored by bakers ; 
but good patent winter wheat flours will, if properly handled, 
make a most delightful and delicious loaf of bread. It is largely 
a matter of getting acquainted with the brand of flour. When 
a good brand is once secured and is giving good satisfaction, it 
is Veil to continue so long as the quality remains good. Experi- 
menting with unfamiliar brands often means failure. 

Good yeast is as essential as good flour. There are several 
good compressed yeasts on the market, and it scarcely justifies 
one to bother with the making of yeast. However, in rural 
districts, where the market cannot be conveniently reached, a 
supply of yeast may be kept in store by reserving a small 
quantity of the liquid from one baking to the next 

Good flour and good yeast ar§ not a guarantee of good bread. 
As much depends upon the preparation as in the selection of 
materials. The best of materials may be transformed into poor 
bread by careless or improper preparation. Good bread, as good 
cake, is not a matter of chance. Certain fixed laws must be 
observed ; hence, it is not luck but a scientific process. 

"The first step in the process is to incorporate a given amount 
of liquid, by which each atom of flour is surrounded with a thin 
fihn of moisture, in order to hydrate the starch, to dissolve the 



66 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

sugar and albumen, and to develop the adhesiveness of the 
gluten, thus binding the whole into one coherent mass." 

Next, the dough must be placed in a temperature favorable 
to the development of the yeast spores. The temperature 
should range from 75° F. to 90° F. 

White bread dough is very susceptible to currents of air. 

The action of the yeast upon the starch changes it into 
dextrose (a form of sugar of the glucose group), and the result 
is alcoholic fermentation, which creates carbon dioxide (car- 
bonic acid gas). If the bread be allowed to rise too long, or as 
the bakers term it, become over-ripe, the alcoholic fermentation 
ceases ; acetic fermentation sets in and the result is poor bread. 
No hard or fast rules can be laid down for the length of 
time, or number of times for proofing (rising). It depends 
upon the strength of the flour, the quality of the yeast, and 
the temperature. Some yeasts are much quicker than othars. 
Judgment must be exercised in this, and the recipe, or flour 
must not be condemned because the possessor of them does not 
have success at the first attempt. The opportunity to observe 
some one through the entire process, or to do the work under 
the guidance of some competent person will prove most bene- 
ficial to the inexperienced. 

Health Bread. 

Take one quart of lukewarm water, dissolve in the water 
one cake of compressed yeast, add one heaping teaspoonful 
of salt and two and three-fourths quarts of unbolted graham 
flour (more or less), and knead well. Dough should be about 
the consistency of ordinary white bread dough. Mold into 
loaves and put into pans at once. Set in warm place, allow to 
rise double the original size. This will require from one and 
one-half to three hours, according to quickness of yeast and 
temperature of room. Steam in steam-cooker or bake in oven 



Breads 67 

one hour. If loaves are large, bake one and one-half hours. 
This bread is not light, but has a most delicious flavor. 

The object of not allowing the bread to proof longer is to 
retain the natural composition of the wheat as nearly as possi- 
ble. 

Date Bread. 

Take one pint of dates, remove pits, cut in quarters. Make 
bread as directed in recipe for "Health Bread" and while 
kneading dough work dates in. 

Fruit Bread. 

Take one quart of luke-warm water. Dissolve in water on^ 
cake of compressed yeast, add one rounding teaspoonful of salt, 
two and one-half quarts of graham flour, one-third cupful of 
butter, olive or cottonseed oil, one cupful of seeded raisins, one 
cupful of currants. Add fruit after bread is partially mixed. 
Mold into loaves, put into pans immediately. Put in warm 
place, allow to raise until double the original size. Steam or 
bake one hour. If loaves are large, bake an hour and fifteen 
minutes. 

Nut Bread. 

Make over recipe for "Health Bread." While kneading the 
dough, work through three-fourths pint of chopped nuts. 

Home Pride Graham Bread. 

Take five cupfuls of graham flour, one cupful of white 
flour, two and one-half cupfuls of sour milk, two even tea- 
spoonfuls 6f soda, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, one-third 
cupful of brown sugar, one-half cupful of butter. Work 
butter through flour, add soda, salt, and sugar to milk and thor- 
oughly dissolve, then add milk to flour, and mix batter smooth. 
Bake in deep pan in slow oven for one hour or longer. 



68 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Graham Fruit Bread. 

(Quick method.) Take two and one-half cupfuls of graham 
flour, one cupful of white flour, one cupful of seeded raisins, 
one cupful of currants, one and one-fourth cupfuls sour milk, 
one-fourth cupful of butter, one-half cupful of brown sugar, 
one even teaspoonful of soda, one even teaspoonful of salt. 
Work butter through flour ; add sugar, soda, and salt to milk, 
and dissolve thoroughly, then add milk to flour. Stir until bat- 
ter is smooth. Dust fruit with flour, add to batter, stir through. 
Bake in deep pan, in slow oven one hour. (Laxative.) 

White Bread. 

The amount of flour used will vary from three to four quarts, 
to one quart of liquid. This is owing to the difference in the 
strength and absorbing properties of different flours. 

(Four Hour Method.) Take one quart of luke-warm 
water, one cake of compressed yeast, two tablespoon fuls of 
sugar, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, from three to four 
quarts of flour sifted once, and one even tablespoon ful of but- 
ter or oil. Dissolve yeast, sugar, and salt in water, add half 
the flour, mix. Add remainder and knead until smooth. 
Knead butter or oil in with last part of flour. Set in a warm 
place, free from draft, to rise until light — about two hours — 
then mold into loaves, put into buttered pans, and let it rise until 
three times the original size — about one hour. Bake in 
moderate oven from forty-five minutes to one hour. This 
makes three large loaves. It will not be as smooth and deli- 
cate as bread in which less yeast is used. 

White Bread. 

(Country Method.) Bring one quart of water to the boiling 
point, stir in one heaping tablespoonful of flour that has been 
stirred smooth with a little water, cook one minute. Remove 
from fire, add one-third cupful of mashed potatoes, one round- 



Breads 69 

ing tablespoonful of sugar. Allow to cool down to 98° F. 
(luke-warm), then dissolve in the liquid one-half cake com- 
pressed yeast. Cover and allow to stand in warm place over 
night. In the morning remove one cupful of the liquid and re- 
place it with one cupful of luke-warm water. Put the cupful of 
yeast removed in a glass can with cover, or bottle, and set in 
cool place. (To be used as starter at next baking.) 

To one quart of liquid add one heaping teaspoonful of salt, 
knead in from three to four quarts of sifted flouri Use a little 
shortening if desired. Cover and set in warm place until 
light — ^two or three hours. Knead down and allow to rise a 
second time before putting it into pans if hard wheat flour 
is used. Mold into loaves, put into pans, allow to rise until 
thrice the original size. Bake in moderately hot oven. 

Next baking, prepare a quart of liquid as before ; when cooled 
to luke-warm, add the cupful of yeast retained from last bak- 
ing. Yeast may be reserved and repeated indefinitely in this 
manner, if care be taken to keep starter in cool — not cold — 
place. 

White Bread. 

(Sponge Method.) In one pint of luke-warm water dis- 
solve one-third cake of compressed yeast. Stir in one quart 
of sifted flour — or enough to make ordinary sponge. Put in 
warm place to rise. (This may be prepared in the evening 
and allowed to stand over night if weather is not too hot.) 
When light, add one pint of luke-warm water, one heaping 
teaspoonful of salt, and stir sponge until smooth. Add the re- 
maining two or three quarts of flour. Mix, turn out on mixing- 
board and knead well. Put back into pan to rise until light, 
knead down and allow to rise a second time, then turn out 
on to mixing-board, knead down, mold into loaves, and put into 
greased pans. Put in warm place, let rise until light — ^thrice 



70 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

the original size. Put into moderate oven. Bake from forty- 
five minutes to one hour. 

Corn Bread No. 1. 

Take one pint of sour milk, add one even teaspoonful of 
soda, and one heaping teaspoonful of salt. Thoroughly dissolve 
soda and salt in milk, then stir in one quart of corn meal, add 
two beaten eggs, and one-half cupful of butter or oil. Mix thor- 
oughly. Turn into greased pan. Bake in moderate oven. 

Corn Bread No. 2. 

Take three cupfuls of sour milk, add one and one-half even 
teaspoonfuls of soda, and one rounding teaspoonful of salt. 
Thoroughly dissolve soda and salt in milk. Add one quart of 
corn meal and two cupfuls of white flour. Mix well. Then add 
one cupful of grated nut meats and mix through. Put into 
greased pan. Bake in moderately hot oven. 

Com Bread No. 3. 

(Baking Powder.) Take one pint (two cupfuls) sweet milk, 
one quart of corn meal, two beaten eggs, one even teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add 
baking powder and salt to meal before adding milk and eggs. 
Bake in thin sheet. 

Royal Fruit Rolls. 

When baking bread, instead of putting one loaf in pan, work 
into it two beaten eggs and one cupful more of flour, then roll 
it out into a strip eighteen inches long and six inches wide. 
Spread upper side well with butter or oil, sprinkle over 
it a pint of seeded raisins, one cup of chopped dates, fold 
edges in and roll over. Cut off rolls one inch in thickness, 
place in greased pan, one against the other, sprinkle with sugar, 
allow to rise thrice the original size. Bake in moderately hot 
over. 



Breads 71 

Luncheon Rolls. 

To one-half cupful of scalded milk, add two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and one- fourth teaspoonf ul of salt. When milk is luke- 
warm, dissolve one-half yeast cake in milk, add two table- 
spoonfuls of luke-warm water and one cupful of flour. Mix. 
Cover and set in warm place to rise. When light, add enough 
flour to knead, let rise again, then roll out to one-half inch in 
thickness. Shape with small cutter and place in buttered pans 
close together. Let rise again. Bake in moderately hot oven. 
Fruit or nuts may be added to these if desired. 

Cream Biscuit. 

Take four cupfuls (one quart) of sifted flour, add two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one rounding tea- 
spoonful of salt, and stir through flour. Add one cupful of 
sweet cream and mix dough as lightly as possible. Roll into 
thin sheet. Cut, put into pan. Bake in moderately hot oven. 

Soda Biscuit. 

Take four cupfuls (one quart) of flour, add piece of butter 
(or substitute) size of egg and one rounding teaspoonful of 
salt. Mix through flour thoroughly. To one cupful of sour 
milk, add one-half even teaspoonful of soda and thoroughly dis- 
solve. Add milk to flour, mix into a dough. Turn out on 
mixing-board, roll into sheet one-half inch in thickness. Cut, 
and put into pan. Bake in moderately hot oven. 

Sour cream may be substituted for milk. When using cream 
omit butter. 

Southern Biscuit. 

One quart of sifted pastry flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one rounding teaspoonful of salt, one-third 
cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet milk. 



72 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Sift flour, measure, add baking powder and salt, and sift 
through flour. Add butter and work thoroughly through 
flour. Add milk and work lightly into a batter. Roll out 
into a sheet one-eighth inch in thickness, brush lightly with 
melted butter, fold over, cut, place in pan. Bake in quick 
oven. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

Rub into one quart of pastry flour, one-fourth cupful of but- 
ter, add one even teaspoonful of salt and moisten with one 
cupful of milk, and a little tvater if necessary, making a stiff 
dough. Place the dough on a solid block, beat it with a mallet 
or rolling pin, from three hundred to five hundred times, or 
until the dough is short. Roll out to one-fourth inch in thick- 
ness, cut with a small biscuit cutter, prick with a fork on top, 
and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 

Bran Gems. 
One cupful of flour, two cupfuls of bran, one and one- 
half cupfuls of sour milk, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one even teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt. Mix bran and salt through flour, add the butter and 
work it through. Dissolve the soda in the milk, add the milk 
and egg to the flour. Mix thoroughly and put batter into 
heated gem pans. Bake in hot oven. 

Laxo Gems. 

Take two and one-half cupfuls of graham flour, one cup- 
ful of white flour, one-fourth cupful of oil or butter, one and 
one-fourth cupfuls sour milk, one-half cupful of brown sugar, 
one even teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, one cup- 
ful of raisins, one cupful of chopped figs. Add butter to 
flour and work through. Add sugar, salt, and soda to milk, dis- 
solve thoroughly. Add milk to flour and stir to smooth bat- 
ter. Dust figs and raisins with flour, add to batter, stir 



Breads 73 

through and put into heated gem pans. Bake in hot oven. 
(Very laxative.) 

Graham Gems. 

Take four cupfuls of graham flour, two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth cupful of butter, one pint of sweet milk. Sift baking 
powder and salt through flour, add butter and work through 
flour. Add milk to flour and mix into a batter. Drop batter 
into heated gem pans. Bake in hot oven. 

Pecan Gems. Peanut Gems- Brazil Gems. 

Make, over recipe for Graham Gems and add to the batter 
one cupful of the shredded nuts. 

Cream Fruit Gems. 

Four cupfuls graham flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one rounding teaspoonful of salt, one cupful of 
seeded raisins, one cupful of currants, one pint of thin sweet 
cream. Sift baking powder and salt through flour. Add 
cream and mix into batter. Stir fruit into batter. Drop into 
heated, buttered gem pans. Bake in hot oven. 

Economy Gems. 

One pint of- water, four cupfuls of graham flour, two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one rounding teaspoonful 
of salt. Sift baking powder and salt through flour. Add 
water and mix into batter. Drop into buttered gem pans. 
Bake in hot oven. 

Polenti Fruit Gems. 

Take two cupfuls of sweet milk, one even teaspoonful of 
salt, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of sugar, one quart of com meal, one cupful of 
chopped dates, one cupful of seeded raisins, two beaten eggs. 



74 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Dissolve salt in milk, add beaten eggs and flour to milk and 
mix thoroughly. Sift baking powder through meal before 
adding it to the milk. Add fruit to batter last. Drop into heated 
gem pans. Bake in hot oven. 

Graham Mufiins. 

Four cupfuls of graham flour, four eggs, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one rounding teaspoonful of salt, 
one pint of sweet milk. Sift baking powder and salt through 
flour. Add milk and beaten eggs. Mix. Drop into heated 
muffin pans. Bake in hot oven. 

Com Muffins. 

One pint of sour milk, one even teaspoonful of soda, one 
rounding teaspoonful of salt, two well beaten eggs, three 
cupfuls of corn meal, one-half cupful of white flour, two even 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter or oil. Dissolve soda and 
salt in milk, add eggs, corn meal and flour to milk. Stir into 
a smooth batter. Bake in muffin rings in a hot oven. 

Huckleberry Mufiins. 

Two cupfuls of graham flour, one-third cupful of butter, 
one-fourth cupful of sugar, two rounding teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one cupful of sweet milk, one egg,, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, one cupful of huckleberries. Add baking 
powder to flour, sift through, then add sugar, butter and salt 
to flour and work through thoroughly, add berries, mix them 
through flour. Then add beaten t.gg and milk, mix to a 
smooth batter. Drop into heated muffin rings and bake in hot 
oven. 

Blueberry Mufiins, Raspberry Mufiins, Blackberry Mufiins, 

Prune Mufiins. 
Are made over the recipe for huckleberry muffins substitu- 
ting the other berries for the huckleberries. 



CHAPTER XII. 

SOUPS. 

Soups are looked upon by many as being an indispensable pan 
of at least one meal each day — either luncheon or dinner — and 
although some authorities would discourage the use of soups, 
their objections to them can be applied only to certain individu- 
als. It is not advisable for persons suffering from certain 
forms of digestive troubles to use soups, and it is sometimes 
necessary to avoid certain kinds of soup, but for the normal 
individual, soups are relished and are healthful. In fact much 
can be said in their favor. When properly made they lend 
zest to the meal, arouse the appetite, stimulate the flow of the 
digestive fluids, and satisfy hunger to the extent that one is 
less inclined to eat over heartily of the heavier and more con- 
centrated foods. Again, if desired, soups can be made con- 
taining sufficient nourishment to form the staple part of the 
meal. 

The food value of soups, like desserts, should be regulated 
according to the remainder of the meal. With a heavy din- 
ner the light bouillons and consommes are the more desirable ; 
but if the remainder of the menu is light, and a nourishing 
meal is desired, let the soup consist of a stew, a cream soup, 
a puree soup, vegetable soup, or a chowder. The composition 
of the soup (the protein, the starch, and the fat) should be 
regulated to supply, in part, the element in which the remainder 
of the menu is deficient. 

The inexpensiveness of soups recommends their use. The 
thrifty wife can, with stock or milk and one or more left over 
vegetables, which may consist of carrots, tomatoes, celery, 

75 



76 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

asparagus, rice, barley, etc., with proper seasonings, produce 
a most delicious soup. This is a splendid method of utilizing 
some left over foods which otherwise would be wasted. Her 
own good judgment will tell the clever woman how to combine 
different materials to produce numberless soups with original 
and pleasing flavors. 

Seasonings. 
Use only those seasonings that improve the flavor and do 
not detract from the wholesomeness of the soup. The author 
advises against the use of peppers, except in amounts that are 
barely detectable to the taste. 

STOCKS AND BROTHS. 

Discretion should be exercised in selecting meats for stocks. 
It is as essential to health to use fresh meats for stock, as it 
is to use fresh meats for cooking and roasting purposes. 

The cheaper cuts of beef and veal are suitable for stocks. 
The soup bone, the neck, the ends of ribs, the shoulder joints, 
are used for soup stocks. 

Wipe the meat thoroughly with a damp cloth, or wash if nec- 
essary. However, it is well to avoid the butcher that handles 
meat so carelessly that washing is required. 

To each pound of meat, add one quart of cold water 
and one rounding teaspoonful of salt. Place the 
kettle over a slow fire and bring it slowly to the 
simmering point. Unless a clear stock is desired do not skim 
oflF the sediment that gathers on the surface, as it is nourish- 
ing. Simmer until the meat is very tender. Unless stock 
is to be used at once strain into an earthen or granite vessel 
and allow to cool uncovered. 

Meat stocks fill such an important place in cooking that it 
is advisable to keep a constant supply. Bouillons, consommes, 
soups ; sauces and gravies for meats and vegetables, of which 



Soups 77 

meat stock form the base, find a place on nearly every noon 
and evening menu m a household where meat is used. 

BOUILLONS AND CONSOMMES. 

Bouillons and consommes are made by clarifying certain 
meat stocks, or stocks made from meat and vegetables. The 
richness determines the name. The clarifying is accomplished 
by the use of white of egg or raw meat. The latter is used 
in high-class cooking and when added richness is desired, but 
the use of egg is less expensive and is ordinarily employed. 
To one quart of cold stock from which all the fat has been 
removed from the surface, and all the sediment in the bottom 
of the vessel rejected, add the slightly beaten white and shell 
of one egg. Place the. stock over the stove and heat gradually, 
stirring constantly, and cook until the white of the egg is 
coagulated. The sediment in the stock will become entangled 
and imprisoned in the egg albumen. Strain through fine 
muslin, but do not squeeze the cloth. Set in cool place and 
use as desired. Stock will keep for forty-eight hours in a 
cool place. 

To Produce Rich Colors. 

The various colors are produced by the kind of meat used 
and by browning the meat Or using artificial colorings as cara- 
mel or kitchen bouquet. 

White stocks are made from veal, chicken, or other fowls, 
or two combined, and then seasoned with salt, white pepper, 
onion, celery, or any seasoning that will not give color to 
the soup. Use meat that is free from bone if perfectly clear 
stock is desired. In cooking the bones, unless extreme care 
is taken to prevent boiling, some of the lime of the bone is 
dissolved, which is difficult to remove from the stock, and a 
clouded or milky color will result. 



78 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Amber and other rich colored stocks are made of beef or 
veal. Trim the meat from the bones. Place it in a hot oven 
to sear and roast. When the meat is well browned, place it 
in the kettle and proceed as for making other stocks. This 
will produce a very rich color and flavor. Meat may be 
browned in the frying pan if more convenient. 

Gamishings and Fillings for Soups. 

Croutons. 

Cut stale bread in small cubes, toast in oven to a delicate 
brown, or fry brown with butter in frying pan. Add a few 
croutons to each serving of soup. 

Rice. 

One to two rounding tablespoonfuls is sufficient for one 
quart of liquid. 

Pearl Barley. 

One to two tablespoonfuls is enough for one quart of stock. 

Vermicelli. 

Break in very short lengths. One-half cupful to one quart 
of liquid is sufficient. Add it to the soup thirty minutes before 
removing from the fire. 

Macaroni. 

Cook in water twenty minutes, rinse in cold water, lay on 
mixing-board and cut in very short lengths to form rings. 
Add one-half cupful of the cut macaroni to every quart of 
soup. 

Shredded Nuts. 

Shred English walnuts, pecans, Brazil nuts, peanuts, or al- 
monds on an almond grater. Add one rounding tablespoonful 
of the shredded nuts to each serving. The nuts lend rich- 
ness and flavor. 



Soups 79 

Noodles. 

Break or cut noodles in very short pieces. One-half cup- 
ful is sufficient for one quart of liquid. Add to the boiling 
soup and cook for twenty minutes. 

Parmesan Cheese. 

Shred the cheese on the almond grater, and add one round- 
ing teaspoon ful to each plate of soup just before serving. 

Yolks of Hard Boiled Eggs. 

Boil the eggs twenty minutes, remove them from the boil- 
ing water and plunge them into cold water; allow them to 
cool, then remove the shell, and take out the yolk. Cut 
in small dice with a sharp knife, and add a few dice to each 
plate of clear soup just before serving. 

Pearl Tapioca. 

Tapioca boiled to clearness makes a desirable filling for 
clear soup. Soak one tablespoonful of the tapioca in one- 
half cupful of water six hours. Add it to the boiling stock 
and cook for twenty minutes before serving soup. 

Arrowroot. 

Arrowroot makes a very desirable thickening for clear 
soups. To each quart of soup, use one teaspoonful of ar- 
rowroot. Mix with a little cold water, turn it into the hot 
soup and cook until clear. 

Cream and Puree Soups. 

Cream and puree soups are made by pressing the cooked 
vegetables through a sieve, and diluting the pulp with milk or 
water to the desired consistency. These are the most delicate, 
wholesome, and nutritious of all the soups. 

The utensils required for making the cream and puree soups 
are, a puree sieve and brush. These can be purchased at any 



80 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

good hardware or department store. If the sieve cannot be 
procured from a store, have a tinner solder a perforated tin 
bottom into a deep, heavy, rolled edge milk pan. A measuring 
cup will serve as a plunger with which to press the v^etables 
through the sieve. 

Beans, Peas, and Lentils. 

The value of these vegetables, and the methods to employ 
in cooking them is explained on page 164. 

Cream of Navy Bean Soup. 

Cook one pint of navy beans according to directions. Put 
beans through puree sieve or colander. To one pint of the 
bean pulp add one pint of milk, a small piece of butter, and 
and two tablespoonfuls of grated onion. Reheat and serve. 

Cream of Lima Bean Soup. 

Cook one-half pint of dry lima beans, put through puree 
sieve or colander, add sufficient milk to make consistency of 
cream, add two tablespoonfuls of butter or oil and salt to suit 
the taste. Reheat and serve. This will make enough for five 
or six servings. 

Cream of Kidney Bean Soup. 

Cook one pint of kidney beans as directed, put through 
colander or puree sieve, add sufficient milk to make the con- 
sistency of cream, season with salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of grated onion. Reheat and serve. 

Cream of Yellow Split Pea Soup. 

Soak and cook the peas as directed on page 164 and make 
over Cream of Lima Bean Soup recipe. Onion, celery, 
bay leaf, and paprica are the desirable seasonings for this 
soup. The onion salt, and celery salt may be substituted for 
the vegetables. 



Soups 81 

Puree of Navy Bean Soup, Puree of Lima Bean Soup, 
. Puree of Kidney Bean Soup, Puree of Yellow Split 
Pea Soup, Puree of Green Split Pea Soup, 

Puree of Lentil Soup. 

For the preceding puree soups, cook the beans, peas, or 
lentils as directed on page 164. Press them through the puree 
sieve, and to each pint of pulp add one pint of water or meat 
stock; use more if necessary. The soup should be the consis- 
tency of cream. Season these soups with one or more of the 
following seasonings, minced onion, minced celery, minced 
parsley, peppercorns, thyme, cloves. 

Cream of Asparagus. 

Cook the asparagus until tender, then press it through the 
puree sieve. To each cupful of the pulp, add one pint or more 
of rich milk. Meat stock may be substituted for milk, in which 
case, thicken with one even tablespoonful of flour which 
has been heated — ^but not browned — with one tablespoonful of 
butter in the frying pan. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

The unbleached tough stems that are not desirable for 
salad may be used for soup. Chop the celery very fine, or run 
it through a food chopper. This crushes the stems and ex- 
tracts the juice. Add a little water and stew for twenty 
minutes, then add the desired amount of milk (one quart to 
one pint of celery). Bring the soup to the boiling point and 
thicken it with one rounding tablespoonful of flour that has 
been heated in a saucepan with one tablespoonful of butter, 
Strain out fiber, season with salt, and serve with croutons. 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

Run one pint of fresh cooked or canned corn through the 
food chopper to crush the grains, add one pint of milk, one- 



82 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

half cupful of minced celery or one tablespoonful of minced 
onion, one rounding teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of paprica, one rounding tablespoonful of butter. 
Heat the soup to the scalding point in the double boiler. Thicken 
it with one rounding teaspoonful of cornstarch stirred smooth 
with a little milk. Strain and press com through sieve and 
serve. 

Cream of Polenti Soup. 

Make same as cream of corn soup, except adding the beaten 
yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of onion juice and one- 
half pint more milk. Beat one-half pint of the hot milk into 
the eggs and cornstarch, adding it slowly to keep the eggs from 
curdling, then turn it into the soup and stir thoroughly. 
Strain before serving. 

Brown Potato Soup. 

One cupful of mashed potatoes, one-half cupful of lentil 
pulp, one pint of rich milk, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, one teaspoonful of salt and four tablespoonfuls of grated - 
onion. The lentils make it the color of brown flour, and are 
healthful and nutritious, whereas browned flour is always con- 
stipating. 

Bean Potato Soup. 
Use equal amounts of bean pulp and mashed potatoes, and 
enough rich milk to make the soup the consistency of cream. 
Flavor with onion, a small piece of butter or three tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil, and salt to taste. Make in double boiler to 
prevent burning. 

. Cream of Tomato Soup. 

Put one pint of stewed or canned tomatoes through the 
sieve. Bring them to the boiling point, add one-eighth of a 
teaspoonful of soda, and before the tomatoes cease foaming. 



Soups 83 

add one pint of scalding hot milk. Do not allow soup to boil 
after milk has been added. Thicken soup with one rounding 
teaspoonful of flour stirred smooth with a Ijittle milk if desired. 
Season with a rounding tablespoonful of butter and Qne even 
teaspoonful of salt. 

Tomato Bisque. 

Cook the tomatoes until tender, and press them through the 
puree sieve. Bring one pint of the strained tomatoes to the 
boiling point, add one-eighth of a teaspoonful of soda and 
before the tomatoes cease foaming, add one pint of heated 
cream. Season with one tablespoonful of onion juice, and one 
even teaspoonful of salt. Serve in cups. 

Cream of Onion Soup. 

Fry slowly one pint of sliced onions with two tablespoon- 
fuls of oil until a delicate brown. Turn the onions into one 
quart of milk heated to scalding point in the double boiler, and 
cook for fifteen minutes. Season with one even teaspoonful 
of salt, and thicken with one rounding tablespoonful of flour^ 
previously rubbed smooth with a little milk. Add one round- 
ing tablespoonful of butter just before serving. It must be 
strained through a sieve if a perfectly smooth soup is desired. 

Cream of Vegetable Soup. 

Cook in water, or steam, one large potato, one cupful of 
sliced carrot, one cupful each of minced celery and turnips. 
Rub the cooked vegetables through a sieve, add one quart of 
rich milk, and one even teaspoonful of salt. Reheat and serve. 

A numberless variety of cream of vegetable soups can 
be made over the above recipe by substituting various com- 
binations of iregetables and seasonings. 



84 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

English Beef Soup. 

To one quart of beef stock, add one-half cupful of finely 
cubed carrot, one-half cupful of green peas, one rounding table- 
spoonful of washed rice, and one-fourth cupful of minced 
onion.. Cook until vegetables are tender; add boiling water 
as necessary to retain original amount of stock. Season with 
salt. Some finely minced meat may be added to this soup if 
desired. 

Beef Broth a la Anglaise. 

Take one pound of the lower portion of round steak, cut in 
cubes and roast in a hot oven until well browned; or have the 
steak cut thin and brown in the frying pan. Place the meat 
in a kettle, add one quart of cold water and a rounding tea- 
spoonful of salt. Simmer for four hours, or until the meat 
is tender. Replenish with hot water when necessary. Strain 
the stock into an earthen or granite vessel and allow to cool 
uncovered. Clarify as directed for clarifying bouillons. (Page 
77.) To one quart- of the hot clarified stock, add one bay 
leaf, one clove, one-half cupful of cooked peas, one dozen 
cooked string beans, and one sliced cooked carrot. If the 
vegetables are cooked in the stock, a slightly clouded eflFect 
will result. 

Beef Broth with Rice or Barley. Veal Broth with Rice 
or Barley. Chicken Broth with Rice or Barley. 

For the above soups, heat one quart of stock to the boiling 
point, and sprinkle in slowly two rounding tablespoonfuls of 
washed rice. Place kettle over the fire on an asbestos plate, and 
cook slowly for thirty minutes. Season with one tablespoonful 
of minced onion, or one-half teaspoonful of powdered celery 
leaves or minced parsley. 

When barley is used, wash and soak one rounding table- 
spoonful of the barley for four hours or over night. Then 



Soups 85 

cook it in the double boiler with a cupful of water for four 
hours. Then add one quart of clear, heated, salted meat 
stock, and cook thirty minutes longer. Season with minced 
sprig of parsley. 

If a perfectly clear soup is desired, the barley must be turned 
into a sieve and thoroughly rinsed before adding the meat 
stock. 

Chicken Mullagatawney. 

To one quart of heated, rich, chicken stock, add one cupful 
of the cooked breast of the chicken cut in small cubes, one small 
minced, sweet, green pepper, one small potato cut in cubes, one 
rounding tablespoonful of washed rice, one bay leaf, one Mexi- 
can pepper or one-eighth teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one 
stalk of spinach left whole and removed before serving. Cook 
slowly for thirty minutes. Thicken with one rounding tea- 
spoonful of flour stirred smooth with a little cold stock or 
water. 

Chicken Okra. 

To one quart of heated, chicken broth, add one cupful of 
cooked or canned okra cut in short lengths. Add one-half cup- 
ful of cooked barley, one tablespoonful of minced parsley and 
a dash of red pepper. Cook for fifteen minutes before serv- 
ing. 

Spanish Chicken Soup. 

Cut one large, ripe tomato into one quart of heated chicken 
stock, cook for fifteen minutes, and put the soup through the 
puree sieve. Return it to stove and add one heaping tabkspoon- 
ful of washed rice and one small red pepper. Cook until rice 
is tender. (Twenty minutes.) Thicken with one rounding 
teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth with a little water. Add 
one-half cupful of miilced chicken if desired. 



86 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Cream of Chicken. 
Use the broth of a stewed chicken — one quart. Run 
enough of the white meat through the food chopper — ^using 
the nut butter knife — ^to make one cupful. Add one stem 
of celery to the broth and simmer ten minutes, lift the celery 
from the kettle, add the ground chicken, thicken the soup with 
one tablespoonful of flour stirred smooth with a little water. 
Cook ten minutes. Sprinkle a bit of minced parsley over each 
serving. 

Chicken Gumbo. 

Use a three pound chicken. Separate the meat from the 
bones, cut in cubes, roll in flour, fry to a light brown with a 
few slices of bacon. Put into kettle and add two quarts of 
hot water, and simmer until chicken is nearly tender ; then add 
one cupful of sliced okra, one sliced onion, one pint of strained 
tomatoes, one small red pepper, a sassafras root, the thickness 
of a lead pencil and three inches in length. Season with one 
rounding teaspoonful of salt. Cook until all the vegetables 
are tender. 

Turkey Soups. 

Use the chicken soup recipes substituting turkey for chicken. 

Bouillon. 

Select lower end of round steak, or two pounds of other 
meat free from bone. Cut in thin slices and sear in hot oven, 
or in frying pan with a bit of chipped suet until the meat is 
well browned, but not burned. Then place the meat in ket- 
tle, add two quarts of water and simmer four hours. Strain 
and proceed to clarify as directed for clarifying bouillons. (See 
page 77.) 

Vegetables, as carrot, celery, onion, turnip, vegetable oyster, 
cauliflower, may be added one hour before the stock is re» 



Soups 87 

moved from stove. With the use of these vegetables a great 
variety of flavors can be produced. 

Consomme Julienne. 

To one quart of rich, amber colored, hot stock, add one 
cupful of cooked, string beans cut in shreds, one cupful of 
shredded carrots and a few flowerets of cauliflower. The vege- 
tables should be steamed until tender before adding them to 
stock. Season with a bay leaf, one parsley root or two cloves. 
Remove the parsley root, and cloves before serving. 

Cream of Clams. 

Scald one-half pint of clams in their liquor for three 
minutes. Heat liquor to boiling point before adding the clams. 
Remove the clams from the liquor and run them through a 
food chopper, using the nut butter knife. Heat one quart of 
milk to the scalding point in double boiler, add to the milk 
one small, sliced onion, a dash of nutmeg, and two even table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Thicken it with one rounding tablespoon- 
ful of flour stirred smooth with a little milk. Then add the 
clam pulp and liquid. Do not allow it to boil after adding 
clams, or milk will curd. Strain the soup through a puree 
sieve before serving. 

Oyster Stew. 

Select one-half pint of strictly fresh oysters, scald them in 
their own liquor until they are plump and gills begin to curl ; 
then turn them into one pint of scalding hot milk. Season 
with one-half even teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of 
butter. Do not allow the stew to boil. Serve immediately after 
oysters are added to the milk. 

Water may be substituted for milk, using a liberal amount 
of butter. Cream may be substituted for milk in Which ba^ 
onnt caftDsr^ 



88 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Cream of Lobster. 

Run one cupful of lobster meat and one cupful of cooked 
rice through the food chopper, using the nut butter knife. 
Dilute the pulp with chicken broth to the desired consistency. 
Bring the soup to the boiling point and season with salt and 
paprica. Serve with croutons. 

Potato Chowder. 

Pare and cut enough potatoes in dice to make one pint. 
Fry one large, sliced onion with one-half cupful of minced pork 
in covered frying pan until onion is tender. Put potatoes, 
onion and the pork into kettle, add one tablespoonful of minced 
parsley, cover with boiling water and cook until potatoes are 
tender ; then turn into the kettle one pint of scalding hot milk. 
Season with butter and one-half teaspoonful of salt, cook 
for ten minutes after adding milk. 

Clam Chowder. 

Heat the liquor of one dozen large clams to the boiling point, 
then place the clams in the liquid, scald them for three minutes 
and remove them frpm the liquor. Put one-half pint of 
sliced potato, one cupful of celery, one-half cupful of peas, 
one medium sized onion into the clam liquor and add enough 
water to cover the vegetables. Cook slowly until all 
the vegetables are tender, then add one pint of hot 
milk and the clams cut in small pieces. Season 
with one even teaspoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper. 



CHAPTER XII.I 

MEAT. 



MEAT is the name given to animal foods in the form of 
flesh, as beef, mutton, pork, poultry, fish, game, etc. It 
is chiefly nitrogenous, composed of albuminoids (albumen 
fibrin and gelatine), fatty tissue, minerals, and water. 

The composition of meat varies greatly in different species ; 
also age and condition of the animal when killed will determine, 
to some extent, the nutritious qualities of the meat. For in- 
stance, the meat of the ox is more nutritious and more easily 
digested than that of the calf. 

The detailed analysis of meat is a matter of small interest, 
except to the chemist and physiologist. The purchasing and 
preparing are the matters of concern to the housewife. How- 
ever, in general, the albumen, the major food element in meat, 
is a substance found both in the blood and muscle. It is 
soluble in cold water; but as is also true of the albumen of 
egg, is coagulated by heat. It begins to coagulate at 135° 
F. and becomes solid at 165° F. Hence the necessity of 
cooking meat at a low temperature, of broiling it over a hot 
fire to quickly coagulate the albumen on the surface to form a 
film, and thus protect the inside by the retention of the juices. 
The small portion coming in direct contact with the hot fire, 
when broiled, is so seared that it is valueless as food. 

Fibrin is insoluble in either hot or cold water. It is that 
substance in blood which causes it to coagulate when it comes 
in direct contact with the air. Its minute delicate fibrils en- 
tangle the blood corpuscles, and form with them clotted blood. 
This is one of nature's provisions to check the flow of blood 
from a wound. -^ 

.89 



90 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Gelatine is a transparent, tasteless substance. It is obtained 
by boiling muscle, ligaments, tendon, bone or cartilage with 
water. It is the gelatine in meat stock that causes it to solidify 
when cooled. Gelatine when subjected to cold water expands 
and dissolves. When subjected to hot water it decomposes and 
upon cooling becomes jelly-like. Authorities differ regarding 
its food value. Although highly nitrogenous, it is doubtful 
whether the system uses it to any great extent. 

Mineral matter in the form of potassium, sodium, calcium, 
magnesium, iron and minute traces of other minerals, are pres- 
ent in the blood and throughout the tissue. 

The color of meat is due to the hemoglobin which abounds 
in the red corpuscles of the blood. If a piece of meat is washed 
in cold water until this matter is entirely driven out the tissue 
will be perfectly white. 

The savory principles of meat are due to various peptones. 

Selecting Meat. 
This is a matter of importance both from the standpoint of 
health and economy. The man that would hesitate to supply 
anything save the best in quality in the way of feed for poultry 
or animals, will carelessly or ignorantly buy meat of the most 
questionable character, meat that would be repulsive in the ex- 
treme if its source of production were known. Health and 
cleanliness are matters worthy of consideration. Hence it 
is advisable to avoid all prepared meats, namely, bolognas, 
factory sausage, and puddings, canned and pressed meats, 
unless the source of their production is known. Ordinarily 
they are composed of the waste products of the slaughter- 
house, that is, the poorest (and too often diseased) animals 
that find their way to the stockyards. These together with 
the parts that cannot be used in any other capacity, with large 
quantities of spices and seasoning, to produce the peculiar 
flavors; ^nuer intb lite pfdduction trf p^epoff^ meats. 



Meat 91 

Patronize the butcher whom you have every reason to believe 
is honest and handles the best grade of meats. As the whole- 
someness of meat depends to some extent upon sanitary condi- 
tions, the public should demand that butcher shops be kept 
scrupulously clean. 

Fresh beef, mutton, poultry, fish, shell fish, and game are 
the most reliable sources from which to draw. These should 
furnish sufficient range and ample variety for even the most 
fastidious epicurean. 

Meat should be removed from paper as soon as it comes from 
the market. Wipe with cloth wrung out in cold water. Put 
on plate or in earthenware jar and place in the refrigerator. 

Good beef should be bright red. Flesh should be firm and 
well marbled with creamy-white fat. The suet should be dry, 
and crumble easily. 

Cold storage fowls should be avoided if possible. When 
they are used, extreme care should be exercised in the select- 
ing. Q>ld storage fowls and fish putrify very quickly after 
being removed from cold storage or from ice. 

When purchasing fish, always satisfy yourself that they are 
fresh. The flesh should be firm and clear. Stale fish are very 
unwholesome. 

r Cooking Meat. 

The digestibility of meat and the amount of nourishment ob- 
tained from it depends largely upon the cooking. The frying 
pan has no place in the healthful cooking of meats. The 
heat of the f r3ring pan ranges from 390° F. to 410* F. ; the fry- 
ing hot fat penetrates the meat, drives oflF the water, dries and 
hardens the tissue, and breaks down and destroys the food ele- 
ments, rendering it indigestible, and forming splendid material 
to create uric acid. The object of cooking meat should be to 
break down and soften the cell walls and connective tissue, 
to tetsAn the juites as nearfy as possible; and to kee^ the fiUdr 



92 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

loose. Sufficient heat should be used to destroy all germ life 
that may be present, and yet not enough to interfere with the 
composition of the meat, except to coagulate the albumen. 

The best methods of preserving and promoting these quali- 
ties are broiling, steaming, roasting, baking, stewing, and 
boiling. 

Cured meats should be avoided. The salt used drives off 
the juices, hardens the cell walls, and renders it difficult of 
digestion. The excessive amount of preservatives used are 
poisonous in their character and often prove harmful. 

In preparing meats, follow closely the recipes given in this 
book. 

Broiling Meats. 

Broiling is the most desirable method for preparing porter 
house, loin, sirloin, the choice rump steaks, chops, and young 
poultry. For all meats the same condition must exist; .namely, 
intense heat. Broiling can be accomplished over a bed of 
coals, in the gas broiler, in the electric broiler, or in a heavy 
skillet. In the beginning the meat must come in direct con- 
tact with sufficient heat to sear the surface quickly. This 
coagulates the albumen on the surface, and forms a film which 
retains the juices, rendering the meat delicate, juicy, and tender. 

Never pierce any meat with a fork when broiling it, as the 
punctures allow the juices to escape. Always have the platter 
heated before placing the meat on it. 

To Broil a Steak. 

Have the steak cut one inch or more in thickness. Trim 
sufficient to give it a neat appearance. Wipe it thoroughly 
with a damp cloth. Place it on the broiling rack and subject 
it to the heat until the side exposed to the fire is seared and 
brown, which should require about one minute. Turn the 
steak and likewise sear the other side. Thereafter reduce the 



Meat 93 

heat slightly, or adjust the steak farther from the fire. Turn 
the steak every minute. A steak cut one inch in thickness, to 
be rare, will require from eight to ten minutes broiling. The 
surface should be a deep rich brown, and the steak should have 
a slight puffed appearance and be red inside. 

Serving Broiled Steak. 

Place the steak on a well heated platter, season with salt, 
and spread with a little butter if desired. Garnish the plat- 
ter with sprigs of parsley, slices of lemon or water-cress. If 
the steak is required to stand a few minutes, which should be 
avoided if possible, season the steak with salt, but add the 
butter and garnishing just before serving. 

Roasting Meats. 

Roasting is so generally applied to what in reality is baking 
meats, that the author applies the word roasting here. The 
same general principles apply to the roasting of all meats; 
namely, a hot oven in the beginning and a reduced tempera- 
ture immediately after the meat is seared. The fireless cooker 
has*become so perfected that for roasting fowls, or from four 
to ten pounds of other meat, it is most desirable. 

To Roast Beef. 

The better cuts of ribs, the loin, or rump are the best cuts 
for roasting; cheaper cuts should be braised, steamed, or 
boiled. Always use a roaster with a tight-fitting cover, or use 
a pan over which another pan will fit tightly. Place the meat 
in the pan without the addition of water, allow the roaster to 
remain uncovered, have the oven very hot upon placing the 
meat in, allow the meat to sear, then draw it from the oven, 
add salt to the drippings, baste the meat, place the lid on the 
roaster, replace roaster in the oven, reduce the heat to a slow 
baking point and continue the roasting the desired length of 



94 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

time. Fifteen minutes to the pound is the accepted time. 
For rare roast, allow twelve minutes to the pound. 
Roasts may be dredged with flour if desired. 

Braising Beef. 

Use from five to eight pounds of round or rump for the 
amount of vegetables given in this recipe. Pare and cut in 
dice enough carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, to make one 
cupful of each. Dredge the meat with flour, place it in the 
roaster, and put it into a searing hot oven for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Remove from oven, lift quickly from roaster, add 
two-thirds of the vegetables to the roaster, place meat on 
vegetables, season with one rounding teaspoonful of salt, 
place remaining vegetables on top of meat, add one pint of 
hot stock or water to roaster, and place lid on. Reduce the 
heat of the oven to a slow baking point and cook very slowly 
for four or five hours. 

Beef a la Mode. 

Use an iron pot with a tight fitting lid. The round of beef 
is the more desirable, but the cheaper cuts may be used. Use 
six pounds of meat for the given amount of vegetables. 
With a sharp knife make deep incisions into the meat 
and press into them thin slices of bacon. Heat the pot to the 
smoking point, drop meat in and sear on every side by turn- 
ing the unbrowned sides to the pot. This will require twenty 
minutes or longer. Lift meat and place in the pot a disc, rack, 
pan, or plate upon which to rest the meat. Add one cupful 
each of diced salsify, carrots, string beans, onions, celery, and 
six cloves. Any one of the vegetables may be omitted except 
the onions. Add boiling water to pot until it touches the meat, 
place lid on pot and cook very slowly for five hours, adding 
water when required. To produce a steam tight cover, place 
a folded towel over top of pot on which to rest the lid, then 



Meat 95 

place a flat iron on the lid to hold it down. The towel must 
not hang down far over the sides of the pot or it will catch on 
fire. 

After removing meat and vegetables from the pot reduce 
the stock to one pint, add one cupful of strained tomatoes and 
thicken with two rounding tablespoonfuls of flour stirred 
smooth with a little water. Season with cayenne pepper if 
desired. 

Serve the meat on a platter with a border of the vegetables 
and the sauce poured over. 

Steaming Meats. 

Steaming is a desirable method for cooking all cheap cuts, 
and tough meats regardless of the kind. The fiber will not 
contract to the extent that it will when boiled, and the meat 
will not have that shrunken appearance. The meat is more 
delicate and juicy, and is richer in flavor. 

A steam cooker or fireless cooker is essential unless a steam 
tight, improvised cooker can be arranged. In either case do 
not add any water to the pan containing the meat, except a 
very small amount to start it when the fireless cooker is used. 
When the steam-cooker is used the meat is put into a pan 
and placed in the cooker on a disc. The water should be 
boiling in the reservoir of cooker before placing the meat in. 

Beef en Fireless Cooker. 

Use six pounds of rump, rib, round, or chuck roast. Heat 
large vessel of fireless cooker to the point that the meat will 
brown quickly, add two tablespoonfuls of oil or drippings to 
vessel, put meat in and keep turning until it is well browned on 
every side. Add carrots, turnips, celery, string beans, a cup- 
ful of each of these if desired. Add one pint of boiling water 
and one rounding teaspoonful of salt. During these prelimi- 
naries heat one radiator to the extent that flour begins to brown 



96 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

when dropped upon the radiator. Place the radiator in the 
cooker receptacle, clamp lid on vessel, place on radiator, close 
the cooker, and allow meat to cook for five hours. 

Steak Smothered with Onions. 

Take round steak, dredge in flour, then pound thoroughly. 
Have a frying pan heated, rub a piece of suet trimmed from 
steak over the bottom of the pan. Brown the steak quickly 
on both sides. Immediately pack the steak in a pan or in a 
casserole. Between each layer of meat, put a layer of sliced 
onion, season each layer with salt. Add one cupful of water 
for every three pounds of steak, place in oven heated to slow 
baking point and cook slowly until tender. This is a desira- 
ble method for all tough steaks. 

Coddled Steak. 

Use the round or cheaper cuts of steak for this recipe. 
Cover the bottom of a flat pan with bread crumbs, from bread 
made over the "Health Bread" recipe, place a cut of steak upon 
the crumbs, season with salt, and add slices of onion if desired. 
Add alternately thin layers of crumbs and meat, with season- 
ing, until the desired amount of meat is used, adding crumbs 
last. Then place the meat in a steam cooker and steam until 
tender. The length of time required will depend upon the 
quality and quantity of meat. 

Scuffled Steak. 

Use round or cheap steaks for this recipe. Roll the steak 
in flour, put it into a heated skillet to which two tablespoon fuls 
of drippings or vegetable fat have been added, and brown 
quickly on both sides. Then pack the steak in a flat pan, 
cover, put into steam cooker or fireless cooker, and cook until 
tender. If the fireless cooker is used, add one cupful of 



Meats 97 

water for every three potuids of meat. Sliced carrots cooked 
with the steak are a pleasing addition. 

Planked Steak. 

Broil a one and one-fourth inch thick porterhouse, loin, or 
cross cut of the rump steak for five minutes. Butter a 
plank and place steak on, trim off edges of steak that protrude 
within one inch of the edge of plank. With a pastry bag and 
tube filled with mashed potatoes, arrange an artistic border 
around the steak. Place in hot oven and bake until potatoes 
are browned, then spread steak with butter, season with salt 
and minced parsley, and place plank on platter to serve. 

Blanketed Steak. 

Use a large sirloin or rump steak cut one inch thick. Wipe 
the steak thoroughly with a cloth rinsed out in cold water. 
Broil for eight minutes. (Consult methods for broiling on page 
92.) Remove steak to a heated platter and season with 
salt. Have rinsed and dried enough large oysters to cover 
the steak. Place them quickly on the steak, season them 
slightly with salt, sprinkle over with fine cracker crumbs, 
dot with butter, place the platter on grate of hot oven (broil- 
ing oven of gas stove), and bake until crumbs are delicately 
browned and the oysters are plump. 

"Cutlets of Tenderloin with Riced Potatoes/' 
From a tenderloin steak cut one inch thick, cut circular 
slices. Broil the slices for eight minutes, spread with butter, 
season with salt, and arrange on a platter around a mound of 
riced potatoes or boiled rice. Garnish potatoes with minced 
parsley and cutlets with sprigs of parsley. 

Broiled Han^burger Steak. 

Always buy meat and make the hamburger at home with a 
food chopper. The lower part of the round is suitable for 



98 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

hamburger. To one pound of the ground meat, add one small 
minced onion, one even teaspoonful of salt, and one-fourth 
teaspoonful of powdered sage. Form the meat into cakes 
one-half inch thick and the desired size. Broil in heavy skillet, 
or over an open fire. Spread with butter. Garnish with 
diced pickled red beets. 

Hamburger Cutlets. 

Grind one pound of round steak with a food chopper, sea- 
son with one medium-sized minced onion, one-rounding tea- 
spoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, and a 
dash of cloves. Add one cupful of cracker crumbs, one beaten 
egg and one-third cup of water or meat stock. Mix the ingre- 
dients thoroughly, form into cutlets, dip into beaten egg, roll 
in cracker crumbs, and fry in deep fat, or bake in hot oven 
until delicately browned. Served on a platter with stuffed 
baked tomatoes is a desirable combination, or garnish cutlets 
with parsley or water-cress. 

Beef Stew. 

Cut the remnants of left-over roast, boiled, or steamed beef 
in one-half inch cubes. To one pint of the meat add one pint 
of meat stock or water, one pint of diced potatoes, one cup- 
ful of diced carrots and one small head of cauliflower. Cook 
until the vegetables are tender. 

Cold Roast Beef. 

Cold meats are sometimes more desirable in summer than 
hot meats. Slice the meat thin and garnish it artistically with 
lettuce, cresses, or parsley. 

Cold meat should be served with a vegetable salad or stuffed 
tomatoes. A salad consisting of string beans, celery, and 
onion, masked with mayonnaise is a splendid accompaniment. 



Meats 99 

Veal. 

Veal is the meat of young calves more than four wedcs old. 
It yields less nutriment than beef and is more difficult of di- 
gestion because of the higher per cent, of fibrin. It decom- 
poses more readily than beef, hence it should receive dose at- 
tention. It is suitable for roasting, broiling, steaming, or stew- 
ing. 

Roast Veal. 

Order the thickest part of leg or loin for roasting (bone 
should be removed from leg at the market). Wipe the meat 
thoroughly with a damp cloth rinsed out in cold water. Then 
put into pan or roaster and place in a very hot oven until the 
surface is seared brown. Draw from the oven, add salt, cover 
the pan with tight fitting cover, reduce the heat of the oven 
and finish cooking at low heat. Allow fifteen minutes to the 
pound. 

Broiled Veal Chops. 

Purchase the loin chops. Trim off the skin and broil in gas 
broiler or over a live bed of coals using a wire broiler with 
handle. Arrange on warm platter, season with salt and but- 
ter, garnish with cresses or parsley, or serve with a brown 
sauce. 

Steamed Veal with Dumplings. 

Use the shoulder or any cheap cut for steaming. Wipe the 
meat thoroughly with a damp cloth, put meat into a pan and 
place in the steam cooker or in an improvised steamer. Do 
not add water to the meat. Steam until tender. Season with 
salt when half done. Serve with dumplings. See recipes 
for dumplings on page 176. 



100 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Breaded Veal Chops. 

Trim the skin from the chops, and wipe them with a damp 
cloth. Sprinkle them lightly with salt, dip into beaten egg, 
then into fine cracker cnmibs. Have every portion of the 
meat covered with the egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 
Time, eight minutes for chops one-half inch thick. Lift the 
chops onto paper and allow them to remain there a minute. 
Build up a mound of riced potatoes in the center of a platter 
and arrange the chops around the potatoes with large 
end of chops resting on the platter. Garnish with cresses, 
parsley, or sections of ripe tomatoes. 

Molded Veal. 

Use two pounds of veal, which must contain some bone to 
make the stock solidify. Wipe, the meat thoroughly with a 
damp cloth, put into stew pan, add one quart of boiling water, 
put over fire and simmer until tender. Add one rounding 
teaspoonful of salt, six cloves and an onion when meat has 
cooked one hour. Replenish the kettle with boiling water as 
necessary. When meat is tender cut it in small cubes, strain 
the stock into an earthen dish, and add the meat and three 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Chill until the stock becomes 
congealed. This is nice to serve with a vegetable salad for 
luncheon. 

Jellied Veal. 

Prepare and cook the veal as for "Molded Veal," except 
that a carrot and a cupful of minced celery should be added 
and cooked with the meat in addition to the other seasonings. 
Slice two hard-boiled eggs that have been pickled in beet juice, 
into the bottom of the dish in which the meat is to be molded, 
strain into dish enough stock to hold but not float the egg, 
chill. Then add a pint of the cool stock, allow that to solidify. 
Next add the meat that has been separated into shreds and pour 



Meats 101 

over the remainder of the stock. Chill. This is a good cold meat 
to serve for luncheon. The seasonings except the salt may be 
omitted if desired. 

Veal Loaf. 

Take two pounds of veal. Grind it with a food chopper or 
mince it very fine with a sharp knife, add one large minced 
onion, one even teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful of sage, or dash of cloves, one cupful of white bread crumbs 
and two beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly, press into greased 
individual bread pan and bake in moderate oven for one hour 
and fifteen minutes. Baste several times with meat stock or 
with melted butter and water. The seasonings except the 
salt and onion may be omitted if desired. 

Mutton. 

The strong mutton flavor is in the fat, hence it should be 
well trimmed, and, when roasting, it should rest on a rack 
to keep it from cooking in its own fat. Roasting, 
broiling, and stewing are the three methods by which mutton 
and lamb should be prepared. The saddle, the leg, and the 
shoulder, stuffed, are desirable for roasting; the chops are 
best broiled ; the remainder should be stewed. 

Peas, turnips, and carrots are the three vegetables that seem 
to be particularly suited to serve with mutton. Peas should 
always accompany spring lamb, and currant jelly should be 
served with roast mutton. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton. 

Remove the kidney fat and kidneys and wipe the meat thor- 
oughly with a damp cloth. Make three slashes in the suet 
on the back and draw the flanks under and tie, to give a 
rounded appearance. Place the saddle on the rack of roaster, 
put into hot oven, and sear the surface. Reduce the heat 



102 The Practiced Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

slightly but not quite so much as for roast beef. Baste fre- 
quently and add the salt to the bastings. A little water may 
be added to the roaster before putting on the lid, after searing is 
completed. Ten minutes for the pound for rare and fifteen 
minutes for well done. Serve with currant or similar jelly. 

Roast Leg of Mutton. 

Follow the directions for roasting a saddle of mutton. See 
above recipe. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. 

It is better to have the butcher carefully remove the shoulder 
blade. Fill the space well with a dressing made over one of 
the recipes on page 122, preferably one of the dry dressings. 
Sew up neatly and proceed as for roasting saddle of mutton. 

Steamed Leg of Mutton. 
Wipe the meat well with a damp cloth, put it into a pan, 
but do not add any water. Put into a steam cooker and steam 
until tender. Add salt when the meat is half done. Serve 
with creamed peas. 

Mutton Chops Broiled. 

If the chops are very fat trim a portion of it off. Read the 
full directions for broiling, then proceed as directed for broil- 
ing meats. Serve with baked potatoes. 

Creamed Mutton. 

Cut remnants of roast or steamed mutton into cubes. To 
one pint of the meat add one pint of mutton broth and bring 
to the boiling point. Thicken with one rounding tablespoon- 
ful of flour stirred smooth with a little water. 

Spring Lamb and Peas. 
Left-over roast, or steamed mutton or lamb can be used for 
this dish. Cut the meat into cubes. To one pint of the meat, 



Meats 103 

add one pint of stock or water, and one pint of peas. If green 
peas are used, which are preferable to the canned, the peas 
should be cooked with the meat forty minutes. Brown one 
rounding tablespoonful of flour with one even tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying jpan, stir it smooth with a little stock from the 
kettle, then add it to the kettle. Salt is the only seasoning 
used for this dish. If raw meat is used it should be cut in 
cubes, browned in a skillet in butter and then stewed nearly 
tender before adding the peas. 

Cold Sliced Mutton. 
'Roast, stewed or steamed mutton are splendid served 
cold in summer for luncheon or supper. Slice the meat thin, 
garnish the platter with parsley, cresses, or sections of ripe 
tomato. 

LIVER. 

This meat can hardly be said to have a place in the list of 
wholesome foods. It is one of the organs through which the 
poisons of the animal body are excreted. Because of 
this, and the fact that this organ is frequently di- 
seased, it is undesirable for food. For those by whom 
it is much esteemed, the author would suggest that only calves 
liver be used. Disease is found to be less frequent in the liver 
of young animals. The desirable methods of cooking to em- 
ploy are broiling and braising. 

Braised Liver. 

Use a whole, or one lobe of calf's liver. Let it soak in 
hot water for a few minutes to draw out the blood, then place 
it on the bottom of the roaster and lay several strips of bacon 
over it and season with salt. Place around it one medium- 
sized carrot sliced, and one sliced turnip, and one large, 
sliced onion on top. Cook in moderate oven and baste oc- 
casionally. Cook until well done. 



104 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Poods 

Broiled Calf 8 Liver. 

The slices should be one-half inch in thickness. Subject it 
to hot water for a few minutes, then place the slices on the 
broiling rack, and broil over the coals or in the gas broiling 
oven. Broil well done, which will require ten or twelve 
minutes. Spread with melted butter, or butter and onion 
juice blended. 

Sweetbreads. 
Sweetbreads require particular attention as they spoil very 
quickly. Remove from paper as soon as delivered, plunge into 
cold water, allow to stand a little while, then parboil in salted 
water twenty minutes, lift frwn kettle, and plunge into cold 
water ; this keeps them firm and white. Sweetbreads should al- 
ways be treated in this manner for subsequent cooking. 

Broiled Sweetbreads. 
Parboil the sweetbreads ; see directions above. Split cross- 
wise, sprinkle with salt and broil five minutes. Spread with 
butter. Serve with lemon. 

Creamed Sweetbreads. 

Parboil a sweetbread. Cut in one-half inch cubes. Re- 
heat in one pint of rich milk, season with salt, and thicken the 
milk with one rounding tablespoonful of fiour that has been 
rubbed smooth with a little milk. Add lump of butter. Serve 
on toast. 

Baked Sweetbreads. 
Parboil sweetbreads, split lengthwise, place in well-buttered 
pan and bake twenty minutes. Turn once while baking. Serve 
around a crown of steamed rice. 

To Select Poultry. 
A young chicken is known by an abundance of pinfeathers, 
soft feet, smooth skin on legs below first joint, and soft carti- 



Meats 105 

lage at point ot breast bone. Old fowls' feet are hard and are 
covered with dry coarse scales, and the cartilage at end of breast 
bone has become ossified. Good fowls should be plump, and the 
cartilage at end of the breast bone soft and pliable. 

Cock turkeys are usually better than hens. Turkeys should 
have smooth, dark legs, and cartilage at breast bone should be 
soft. 

Good geese abound in pinfeathers, should be plump, have 
soft feet and pliable bills. 

Cleaning and Dressing Poultry. 

Written instructions on cleaning and dressing poultry would 
prove of very little value to the inexperienced. To watch an 
experienced person once or twice will prove more advantageous 
and instructive than a score of pages on the subject. 

To Truss a Fowl. 

In trussing fowls the object is to hold the wings and legs as 
close to the body as possible, to give it a neat appearance and 
to prevent the legs and wings from burning. This may be ac- 
complished by inserting skewers or binding with cords. In 
birds that are not stuffed, legs may be passed through incisions 
cut in the body under the bones near the tail. 

To Prepare Birds for Broiling. 

With a sharp-pointed knife, beginning at the back of neck, 
make a cut through backbone the entire length of bird. Lay 
open, and remove contents from inside. Cut out ribs on either 
side of backbone, cut loose from breastbone, and cut through 
tendons at joints. 

When the opportunity is afforded, it is more advantageous 
to clean, dress and prepare a few fowls under the directions of 
some competent person, rather than to try to gather ideas from 
written instructions. 



106 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Steamed Chicken. 

Qean, dress and truss a four-pound fowl. Place in pan 
without the addition of water. Put into steam cooker and 
steam until tender, salt one hour before it is done. Fowl may 
be stuffed if desired. On removing from steamer, place it in 
hot oven a few minutes to give it a delicate brown tinge. 

Roast Chicken. 

Clean, dress and stuflf chicken with oyster dressing. Place 
in roaster to which there has been added a small amount of 
water to create steam. Put on cover and roast until tender 
and brown. Baste frequently. Will require from one to 
three hours, according to the size and age of bird. 

Broiled Chicken. 

Take young fowl, dress for broiling. Broil fifteen or 
twenty minutes over clear fire, turn often and watch carefully 
so that all parts become equally brown. Spread with butter, 
sprinkle with salt and serve. 

Chicken en Casserole. 

Select a plump three-pound fowl, dress and joint it as for 
stewed chicken. Roll it in flour, and fry it in oil or butter 
until brown. Then pack in a casserole, add salt, and one 
dozen small onions, or four large onions cut in quarters. Add 
one pint of boiling water, put cover on casserole and place in 
moderately hot oven. Cook until chicken is tender. By this 
method an old foul can be rendered delicate and tender. 

Smothered Chicken. 
Select a four-pound fowl, dress and joint it ready for 
serving. Roll it in flour. Put oil or butter in a flat-bottom 
roaster or large flat pan, place the chicken in one piece against 
the other, and have every piece resting on the bottom of the 
pan. Fry until delicately browned on both sides, then add 



Meats 107 

one medium-sized sliced carrot, and twelve small onions. Add 
quart of water, cover pan closely and cook in moderate oven 
until chicken is tender. 

Stewed Chicken. 

Dress and cut up the fowl ready for serving. Put into stew 
pan and add one quart of water, cover and cook slowly. Sea- 
son with salt when half done. Add water as required while 
chicken is cooking. Thicken the stock with two rounding 
tablespoonfuls of flour stirred smooth with a little cream or 
milk. 

Chicken with Dumplings. 

Prepare the chicken over the recipe for "Stewed Chicken." 
Make the dumpling dough over meat dumplings recipe (page 
176), and when the chicken is tender drop the dumplings into 
the kettle in small spoonfuls. Do not remove the cover from 
kettle for fifteen minutes after dumplings are dropped in. 
Dip the spoon into hot water or the hot stock after dropping 
each portion in to keep batter from sticking to spoon. 

Chicken and Potpie. 

Cook the chicken as directed in recipe for "Stewed Chicken." 
Make potpie over recipe on pagel76. When the chicken is 
tender lift it carefully from the kettle to avoid breaking the 
pieces. Add sufficient water to make one quart of stock. 
Roll out the potpie dough very thin, cut it into two inch 
squares and drop it into the stock, one square at a time, and 
keep the stock boiling constantly. See that each piece of dough 
is covered by the boiling stock before dropping the next piece 
in. This will prevent the pieces adhering to each other. 

Creamed Chicken. 

Use left-over chicken for this dish. Remove the meat from 
the bones and separate it into shreds. To a pint of meat add 



108 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

« 

a cupful of stock or water; if water is used add a piece of 
butter. Heat to the boiling point, thicken with one rounding 
tablespoonf ul of flour stirred smooth with a little water. Serve 
on toast or biscuit, or in ramekins. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Boil or steam a fowl until the meat separates from the 
bones. Remove meat from the stock and shred it Evaporate 
stock to one pint. Season with salt and one cupful of minced, 
cooked celery. Celery may be cooked with the chicken if pre- 
ferred. Slice two hard boiled eggs in the bottom of an individ- 
ual bread pan, add the shredded chicken, and pour stock over 
the meat. Chill until it becomes congealed. It is a desirable dish 
for luncheon or for supper, served with a vegtable salad. 

Chicken Pie. 
Cut up one, three or four pound chicken or for stewing. 
Add one quart of hot water, put it over the fire and cook slow- 
ly until tender. Remove the bones from the meat. Reduce 
the stock to one pint and thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour stirred smooth with a little water. Make biscuit dough 

over recipe for Southern Biscuit (page ), line the bottom 

and sides of a shallow bread pan with a thin sheet of the dough. 
Put the boned chicken and gravy into the pan, season with salt, 
one grated onion, and two heaping tablespoonfuls of minced 
parsley. Roll out more dough one-half inch in thickness, 
cut in strips one inch wide, lay crosswise over the top, 
allowing one-half inch space between the strips, or the dough 
may be cut into small biscuits and placed at even intervals on 
top of the chicken. Bake for fifteen minutes. 

Chicken in Potato Baskets. 

Use the remnants of left-over chicken. Cream as directed 
in recipe for creamed chicken (page 107). Cook and mash 



Meats 109 

enough potatoes to make three cupfuls, season with salt and 
add one-half cup of cream or milk. Put the potatoes into a pas- 
try bag with tube, and build up round baskets of the potatoes, 
making a cavity half as large as a cup in the center. 
Fill the baskets with the creamed chicken and bake in 
hot oven until potatoes are delicately browned. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

To two cupfuls of minced roast or stewed chicken, add one 
cupful of bread crumbs, one beaten egg, one tablespoonful of 
minced parsley and mix well. Form into croquettes, dip in 
beaten egg, then in fine cracker crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
lift out on a piece of paper for a few seconds to drain. 

Mutton, veal, and beef may be used as a substitute for 
chicken in the above recipe in which case the croquettes take 
the name of the meat used. 

Turkey. 

This much-esteemed bird is more desirable roasted, but may 
be prepared over any of the recipes for chicken. Fifteen to 
eighteen minutes to the pound is allowed for roasting, or if 
the bird is old and large it will require more time. Serve 
the proverbial cranberry s^uce with turkey. 

Always crack the bones and use them and the remnants of a 
carved roast turkey for soup on the following day. 

Roast Turkey. 
Dress and stuff the turkey with oyster or any dressing de- 
sired. Sew up, draw the legs and wings against the body and 
hold them in place by tying. Place the turkey in the roaster 
and put into a very hot oven uncovered. As soon as it is seared 
on the surface, add one cupful of water to the roaster, place lid 
on, reduce the heat and roast slowly until meat on breast is very 
tendef. Baste every thirty minutes. 



110 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Turkey Croquettes. 

To two cupfuls of minced roast or steamed turkey, chicken, 
or duck, add one cupful of mashed potatoes, one-half cupful 
of crumbs, two beaten eggs, one-half cupful of finely minced 
celery, and mix. Form into croquettes, dip in egg, then in fine 
crumbs and fry in deep fat, or bake in the oven. Lift out 
on paper for a few seconds to drain before serving when 
frying in deep fat. 

Roast Goose. 

While this bird is not so popular, it is excellent when young 
if properly roasted. A bird not over four or five months old 
is the best; if older it will be improved if subjected to a kettle 
of boiling water for thirty minutes to which the juice of one 
lemon for each gallon of water has been added. 

Unless one is familiar with the work it is very difficult to 
pick a goose, hence it is advisable for the inexperienced to pur- 
chase dressed geese. 

Wash and scrape the goose thoroughly. Fill it with a dress- 
ing made with two parts apple and one part bread crumbs or 
rice, and slightly sweeten. Rub the goose on the outside with 
salt, put it into a hot oven in uncovered roaster, when it be- 
gins to brown, prick the fat on breast slightly with a fork, 
remove the fat from the roaster as it roasts out, except enough 
with which to baste, and add water to that. Allow from twenty 
to twenty-five minutes to the pound. 

Tame or Wild Duck. 

Ducks may be roasted, steamed, or broiled. Young, tame, 
or wild duck is splendid broiled, and for broiling, dress, and 
prepare as chicken for broiling, or with a cleaver cut the duck 
in halves lengthwise, and then divide the halves. If a duck 
is young enough to broil its bill is somewhat pliable. For 
roast duck, dress and fill with the dressing for goose, or with 



Meats 111 

a dressing made of two parts boiled rice, and one part canned 
tomatoes, with the cooked giblets minced, and one large, minced 
onion added. Season dressing with salt and liberal amount of 
pepper. 

Steamed Duck. 

An old or young duck may be cooked in this way. Allow 
the duck to remain whole. Put it into a pan that will fit into the 
cooker or if the kitchen is not equipped with a steam cooker, im- 
provise one by placing a rack into a large kettle, or into a small 
lard can that has a tight-fitting lid ; put water below the rack 
and place the pan containing the duck on the rack. Replenish 
water as necessary to keep outside vessel from boiling dry. 
After the duck has cooked one hour, season with salt and add 
one large sliced onion and one sliced carrot. Cook until the 
duck is tender. Then turn the stock into another pan, thicken 
it with flour stirred smooth with water — ^two rounding table- 
spoonfuls of flour to the pint of stock. If the duck is carved 
before bringing it to the table, garnish the platter with the 
slices of cooked carrot and parsley. Serve steamed apple 
sauce with duck. 

Smothered Duck. 

Dress and cut the duck into pieces for serving. Dredge with 
flour and fry until a delicate brown. Then pack into earthen 
dish or pan, which must have a tifi:ht-fitting cover. Add one 
pint of boiling water, one dozen small onions, one medium- 
sized sliced carrot, and one pint of celery cut into one-half 
inch lengths. Season with salt, put on lid, place in moderately 
hot oven and cook slowly until the duck is tender. 

Quail, Pigeon, and Squabs. 

Squabs, young quail, or pigeon may be baked or broiled. 
For broiling cut open on the back, wipe perfect- 



112 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

ly dry and broil over a live bed of coals, or in the gas broil- 
ing oven. Time six to eight minutes. Add salt and piece 
of butter to each immediately after broiling. 

Quail and pigeon may be roasted unless they are old ; then 
they should be steamed. Roast these birds about twenty-five 
minutes in a hot oven, lay a piece of bacon across the breast of 
each one when putting them into the oven. 

When steaming or stewing, cook until very tender and serve 
with a sauec made of the broth in which they were codced 
thickened with flour. 

FISH. 

Fish are not as rich in protein as beef, mutton, or poultry, 
but are especially suited for a light meat diet. 

Fish decompose very readily if not properly handled, hence 
discretion should be used in purchasing; for to be wholesome 
they must be fresh. When fish are fresh their eyes are bright, 
the gills are a bright red and the flesh is clear and firm. 

Dress the fish as soon as delivered, or it is often preferable 
to have them dressed at the market. Place them on — or near 
the ice in the refrigerator, but not in the same compartment 
with milk or butter as these foods are easily tainted. 

Patronize the market that is kept in a clean, sanitary con- 
dition and free from foul odors. When the odor of markets 
are unpleasant it is an evidence of carelessness. If stale 
fish are delivered, refuse to accept them. The risk of injury 
to health by eating meats that are beginning to decompose is 
too great. Try to select those kinds that are in seasoa and 
avoid the cold storage product. 

Some varieties are much improved in flavor if skinned. To 
remove the skin, with a sharp knife run down the back on 
either side of the fin, being careful not to cut the flesh. Cut 
the full length of the fish on the under side. With a dull case 



Meats 113 

knife and with the finger catch the skin at the upper corners 
and pull down towards the tail. The skin separates from the 
flesh easily, and with a little care the flesh will not be torn. 

Cook fish until well done. If underdone they are not 
edible. Time, fifteen minutes to the pound for baking, boil- 
ing or steaming. 

Salt Fish. 

If the wholesomeness of foods is a consideration, salted and 
cured fish should not be used. Like other cured meats, the 
salt and curing process harden the tissues, rendering it 
somewhat difficult of digestion, and lowering the food value. 
With the large variety of fresh meats of every description 
in every community, it would seem that the use of undesira- 
ble, cured meats is not justifiable. 

Baked Fish. 

This is one of the best ways of preparing fish weighing more 
than two pounds. The fish may be baked with or without 
stuffing. In either case if the head has not been removed, 
place it on the fish sheet in an upright position as if swim- 
ming; it gives a much better appearance. If stuflFing is not 
used place a long slender Irish potato in the fish to give it 
plumpness ; trim the potato to the proper size to give the fish 
a natural appearance. Season with salt inside and out, and 
sew up. Wrap it three or four times with cotd and tie the 
head so the mouth will remain closed. Bake in moderately 
hot oven and baste frequently. 

Allow fifteen minutes to the pound. A fish is not edible if 
underdone, and it should not be cooked until the flesh is dry. 

A large variety of fish are desirable for baking — ^blue fish, 
black bass, fresh cod, mackerel, pike, muskelunge, pickerel, red 
snapper, salmon, sheephead, white fish, shad, haddock, large 
lake trout and herring. Some varieties are only found in certain 



114 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Poods 

sections. The steaks of large fish may be bakedg 
but broiling, or frying in deep fat, is preferable. See page 122, 
for fish stuffing. 

Broiled Fish. 

When dressing the fish for broiling, split it open on the back, 
wash it and dry it thoroughly with a cloth. Sprinkle salt on 
both sides and brush with oil or butter. Rub the broiling iron 
with a piece of bacon to prevent the fish sticking. Broil over 
live coals or in the gas broiler. Have an intense heat and turn 
the fish frequently, exercising care to avoid burning. When 
the broiling is completed loosen it from the broiler with a 
thin knife before attempting to remove it to the platter. Have 
the platter heated and immediately after placing fish upon it, 
brush with butter and garnish with minced parsley, or use a 
border of water-cress and slices of lemon. 

Steamed Fish. 

Dress and prepare the fish as directed for baking. Place 
the fish on a fish sheet, a long pan, or a platter that will fit into 
an oblong vessel, in which a rack or pan has been placed upon 
which to rest the fish receptacle. Add an inch or more of 
boiling water to the vessel, place fish in, put tight cover on ves- 
sel and steam, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound. Serve 
steamed fish with a tart sauce. For sauce see page 134. 

BoUed Fish. 

Proceed as for steamed fish except that the fish is sub- 
merged in boiling salted water. Allow fifteen minutes to 
the pound. An onion and a few stems of celery added to the 
water and cooked with the fish produce a pleasing flavor. 
Serve boiled fish with a tart sauce. (Page 134.) 



Meats 115 

To Fry Fish. 

The small varieties of fish as perch, trout, blue gills, cat- 
fish, herring, smelts, etc., large fish cut in pieces, or fish steaks 
may be cooked by deep or shallow frying. 

For shallow frying, wash and dry the fish thoroughly, sea- 
son with salt, dredge with flour or commeal. Put a liberal 
amount of a good vegetable fat into the frying pan, and 
when sufficiently heated lay the fish in. Turn twice or more 
if necessary to avoid burning. Fish of medium size will re- 
quire from ten to fifteen minutes. 

For deep frying, dress, wash, and thoroughly dry the fish, 
sprinkle with salt, dip into beaten egg, then into fine cracker 
or bread crumbs. Have the fat an inch or more in depth in 
the irying kettle. Heat it to the point that upon dropping 
in a cube of bread, it quickly takes on a delicate brown. With 
a large fork lay the fish into the heated fat; or, use a frying 
basket. If the fish are small fry rapidly ; if more than one-half 
inch thick across the back, fry more slowly. Upon removing 
them from the kettle, lay on paper for a few seconds. Serve 
very hot, garnish with water-cress, or lemon. 

Planked Fish. 

Use a hard wood plank made solely for planking fish and 
steaks. Dress the fish as for broiling, split it down the back, 
wash and dry thoroughly with a towel. Brush the fish with 
butter or oil. Heat the plank thoroughly, brush it with butter 
or oil and lay the fish upon it, the skin side down. Place it 
in a hot oven and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes 
according to thickness of fish. Brush with butter twice. Do 
not allow the oven to become so hot that the plank bums. 
Serve the fish on the plank and garnish with water-cress and 
lemon. 



116 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Pish Croquettes. 

Halibut or any baked or steamed fish may be used for cro- 
quettes. Care should be taken to remove all fine bones if the 
meat of a bony fish is used. To one pint of the flaked fish, 
add one cupful of cooked rice, one beaten egg, one small, grated 
onion, one even teaspoonful of salt. Mix, form into cro- 
quettes, dip in beaten egg, roll in fine cracker crumbs and fry in 
deep fat. Serve with a tart sauce. Cook the rice for the cro- 
quettes in a large quantity of water and drain thoroughly when 
tender. 

Pish Balls. 

The meat of any white fish can be used for fish balls. See 
that the meat is free from bones. To one cupful of the flaked 
fish meat, add one cupful of hot mashed potatoes, one beaten 
egg, one-half cupful of cracker crumbs, one small grated onion, 
and one even teaspoonful of salt. Mix the ingredients thor- 
oughly, mould into balls the size of an English walnut or a small 
egg, dip into beaten egg, roll in fine cnmibs and fry in deep fat. 
Left-over fish and left-over mashed potatoes may be used in this 
way. 

Salmon Croquettes. 

To one cupful of flaked salmon, add one-half cupful of boiled 
rice, one-half cupful of cracker or bread crumbs, one beaten 
egg, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one even teaspoonful 
of salt, a dash of red pepper. Mix thoroughly. Form into 
croquettes, dip in beaten egg, then in fine crumbs and fry in 
deep fat. 

Salmon Loaf. 

To one pint of flaked salmon, add one cupful of crumbs, 
two beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one stem 
of celery minced, one even teaspoonful of salt. Moisten with 



Meats 117 

the salmon liquid, mix and press into a buttered individual 
bread pan. Bake for thirty minutes. Baste with butter. 
Serve with lemon. 

Shad Roe Baked. 

Shad roe to be wholesome must be strictly fresh. Plunge it 
into cold water for fifteen minutes before baking. Remove 
from the water, dry with a towel, sprinkle with salt, roll in 
Hour, lay in a hot, buttered pan and place in hot oven. Turn 
once to make it brown evenly. 

Shad Roe Broiled. 

Plunge the roe into cold water for fifteen minutes. Re- 
move and put into boiling salted water and cook for ten minutes. 
Remove and place in cold water to chill. This will keep the 
roe firm and white. When ready to broil, divide each section 
into halves lengthwise, spread with butter, season with salt, 
place in hot broiler and broil until the roe is heated through, 
and the surface is sufficiently browned. 

Shad Roe Croquettes. 

Left-over roe may be made into croquettes over any of the 
meat croquette recipes. 

Shad Roe en Casserole. 

Soak the roe for fifteen minutes in cold water, then dry in a 
towel, season with salt, and roll in flour. Lay in a well-heated, 
buttered casserole. Place in a hot oven until nicely browned. 
Then add one pint of cooked or canned peas with the liquid. 
Cook fifteen minutes longer. Cooked carrots or string beans 
may be substituted for peas. Serve in the casserole. 



118 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

SHELL FISH 

Oysters. 

One of the most popular of sea foods. The large popularity 
which they enjoy is due to some extent to their peculiarly pleas- 
ing flavor which so many appreciate. They may be described as 
being water slightly gdatinized by organic matter. They are 
very low in food elements ; it requires three pounds of oysters 
to equal one of beefsteak in protein, hence as a matter of nutri- 
tion, they are very expensive. They enjoy the distinction of 
being easily digested. This is true when eaten raw, or when 
properly prepared, but when fried of allowed to cook until the 
fiber contracts and becomes tough, they are rendered unwhole- 
some and become a source of digestive disturbances. Because 
of their peculiar gelatinous character they are especially liable 
to decompose and occasionally produce ptomaine poisoning. 
Typhoid fever is sometimes traced to infected 
oysters. This is probably because of the beds being in too 
close proximity to filth from city sewage. If possible, one 
should ascertain their freshness when purchasing. Stale 
oysters are a most unwholesome food. 

Baked Oysters. 

Take nice, large oysters, drain liquor oflF, rinse in cold water, 
dry with cloth, dip in beaten egg, roll in bread or cracker 
crumbs, place in well-buttered pan, sprinkle with salt, put in 
hot oven and bake until oysters become plump and crumbs are 
browned. Will require but a few minutes. 

Raw Oysters. 

When possible raw oysters should be served in the deep valve 
section of the shell. In any event a medium-sized, or large and 
strictly fresh oyster should be used. When served in the 
shell, wash them thoroughly with a brush before opening. 



Meats 119 

With a sharp knife loosen the oyster from the shell and dip 
into cold water; this removes the possibility of any particles 
of shell accompanying the oyster to the table. Arrange the 
shells on a bed of crushed ice and garnish with cress, or 
parsley, and a piece oT lemon m the center of the plate. Six 
is the customary number for each serving. Salt, pepper, horse- 
radish, catsup, and sauces are proper seasonings to serve with 
raw oysters. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with cracker crumbs to the 
depth of one-eighth inch, and cover the crumbs with a layer of 
oysters. Add alternate layers of crumbs and oysters until de- 
sired amount is prepared. Add salt aftd butter to each layer 
of oysters. Pour over enough milk to moisten crackers. 
Bake in moderately hot oven until the contents of the pan are 
heated through. 

Fried Oysters. 

Use the large eastern oyster. Rinse the oysters in cold water, 
diy them in a towel, dip them into beaten egg, then into fine 
crumbs. Place them in a frying basket and submerge them in a 
pan of hot oil or fat, and cook until a deep brown, which will 
require one minute or less. Turn them on paper for a few 
seconds before serving. Serve very hot. 

LOBSTER, CRABS, SHRIMP. 

Lobsters, crabs, shrimp, etc., are taken from the water during 
the entire year ; but, like oysters, their season is limited to cer- 
tain months, and when out of season their meat is very inferior 
in flavor and delicacy, being of a spongy, stringy nature. The 
season for lobster extends from March to November. Crabs 
are good during the months of May, Jime, July, and August. 
Soft-shell crabs are best in July and August. In some locali- 






120 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

ties the season extends into other months. All these meats 
can be purchased in cans, which product is quite as desirable 
f 6r some dishes, and unless one is in a position to secure these 
fish while strictly fresh, it is advisable to curtail their use in 
the fresh state. The carelessness that is ever3rwhere mani- 
fest in the handling of these foods makes the careful person 
wary of their use. The half-dead state in which they are 
permitted to exist for days sometimes, is cruel beyond measure, 
and can only be productive of harm to the meat. Ptomaine 
poisoning more often results from eating these meats than 
from any other meats, which must be attributed to careless 
handling. To avoid these meats in their fresh state except 
in coast countries is justifiable, in the face of the risk of injury 
one might sustain by their use. 

Their meat is not so nourishing: as beef or fowl, but their 
cost is so low in some coast localities, as to make them more 
economical than some other meats. These fish should be 
killed and cooked imme'^iatelv upon taking them from the 
water and then preserved in ice until sold, which should be 
within a few days. If the purchaser is not familiar with the 
way the meat may be separated from the shell, the dealer will 
give this explanation. 

Lobsters and crabs are noisonous if not cooked immediately 
upon beingf killed. The ffesbness of the cooked lobsters can 
be determined bv the ebsticity of the tail. It should be curled 
and if fresh will spring: b^ck when straightened. 

If live lobsters 3re purchased, kill before boiling by running 
a sh^rp, pointed knife through the joint between the head and 
tail pieces and then plunge them into boiling, salted water and 
cook for twenty-five minutes. Remove and allow them to 
cool- Thereafter, remove the body from the shell. Take 
out the stomach which lies directly under the shell and remove 



Meats 121 

all the woolly gills. Break open the claws with a hammer 
and take out the meat. 

Lobster Cocktail. 

Cut the lobster meat into small cubes, place a small portion 
in the glass (small sherbet glasses may be used), and mask with 
a liberal quantity of mild catsup. 

Broiled Lobster. 

With a sharp knife cut down the line which runs down the 
back on the shell ; this kills the lobster quickly. With a heavy 
knife open the shell and remove the stomach (called the lady) 
and the intestines. Broil with the shell part towards the fire. 
Cook for twenty minutes, on a moderate fire. Remove to 
platter, season with salt, spread with butter. Open the claws 
with a nut cracker just before serving. 

The dealer will dress the lobster and crabs for broiling if 
requested. 

Baked Lobster. 

Dress a lobster as for broiling, place the halves in a pan and 
bake in a hot oven for thirty minutes. During the baking 
baste twice with melted butter. Broiling and baking are the 
most desirable ways of preparing lobsters and crabs. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

To one cupful of finely minced, fresh, or canned lobster meat, 
add one cupful of boiled rice, (cook rice southern method), 
one beaten egg, and one even teaspoonful of salt. Mix the ingre- 
dients thoroughly, form into croquettes, dip into beaten tgg, 
then into fine cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat. Garnish 
platter with crisp lettuce and slices of lemon. 

Cracked Crabs. 

Purchase the cooked crabs. Have the fish dealer dress and 
crack them. As soon as (J^livcrcd, place near the ice. Arrange 



122 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

on a platter of crushed ice and garnish with cresses, or 
parsley and lemon when serving. Mild tomato catsups should 
accompany this dish. 

Crabs a la Patrick. 

With a pastry bag and tube, form artistic baskets or cups of 
mashed potatoes on a buttered pan, place them in a hot oven 
until delicately browned. Remove from the oven and fill with 
creamed crab meat. Sprinkle the top with cracker crumbs 
and replace in the oven until crimibs arc delicately browned. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Dressings for Fowls and Fish. 

Plain Dressing. 

- One cupful of bread crumbs, one-fourth cupful of butter, 

one-fourth teaspoonful salt, few drops of onion juice, and a 
little minced parsley. Mix ingredients well. This makes a 
splendid filling for fowl or fish. 

Oyster Dressing. 
One cupful cracker or bread crumbs, one-fourth cupful of 

butter, one cupful of oysters, one-fourth spoonful of salt and 

a little minced onion. Drain all the liquid from oysters, and 

mix ingredients. If a moist dressing is desired, moisten 

crumbs with water or liquid from oysters. 

Shad Roe Dressing. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, one-fourth cupful of butter, 

one cupful of cooked shad or other fish roe, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful salt, a little minced parsley, and a little minced celery 
If a moist dressing is desired, add a little water, 



CHAPTER XIV. 

MEAT VERSUS VEGETARIANISM. 



IT IS no longer a question whether or not meat is essential to 
support a normal degree of health and strength. The im- 
partial, scientific tests to which the vegetarian has been sub- 
mitted, prove beyond a question of doubt, that refraining 
from eating flesh foods is not accompanied by injurious ef- 
fects. However, the increasing consumption of meat per 
capita would indicate that public opinion is not in sympathy 
with the vegetarian idea. It is the author's personal opinion 
that the adoption of the vegetarian diet would prove an utter 
failure in most homes. This, however, is entirely due to 
lack of sympathy and of a knowledge of foods and health 
subjects. 

So far as purely physiological arguments go, it would in- 
dicate that the vegetarian has the advantage. All the food ele- 
ments contained in meat are derived in various forms from the 
products of the vegetable kingdom, and these are supplied di- 
rect from nature's secret laboratories, coming from an un- 
contaminated, undiseased source. 

Too Much Meat. 

A reduction of the present consumption of meat would un- 
doubtedly insure better health generally. The latest and 
probably correct standards for the quantities of the various 
food dements required daily to support the bodily energy and 
strength, indicate that we should derive our muscular energy 
and bodily heat from carbohydrates, rather than from proteins. 
This would naturally involve a reduction of meat foods, if not 
total abstinence from them. 

123 



124 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Meat once a day is an abundance for the average person. It 
is the excessive indulgence in meat that gives rise to many un- 
pleasant conditions. Gout, rheumatism, cancer, nervousness, 
etc., are often the result of eating too much meat. Digestive 
derangements are sometimes the result of undigested, decom- 
posed flesh foods finding lodgment along the intestinal tract. 

Effect Upon the Disposition. 

"The camivora are in general stronger, bolder and more pug- 
nacious than the herbivora on which they prey; in like manner, 
those nations who live on vegetable food differ in disposition 
from such as live on flesh."-— Li^W^. 

"The mixed diet to which the inclination of man in temper- 
ate climes seems usually to lead him, when circumstances allow 
that inclination to develop itself freely, appears to be fully con- 
formable to the construction of his dental and digestive appa- 
ratus, as well as to his instinctive cravings. And while, on the 
one hand, it may be freely conceded to the advocates of 'vege- 
tarianism,' that a well selected vegetable diet is capable of 
producing, in the greatest number of individuals the highest 
physical development of which they are capable, it may, on the 
other hand, be afiirmed with equal certainty, that the substitu- 
tion of a moderate proportion of animal flesh is in no way in- 
jurious, but, so far as our evidence at present extends, this 
seems rather to favor the highest mental development. And 
we can scarcely avoid the conclusion that the Creator, by con- 
fering on man a remarkable range of choice, intended to quali- 
fy him for subsisting on those articles of diet whether animal 
or vegetable, which he finds most suitable to his tastes and 
wants. — IV. B. Carpenter, on the Principles of Physiology, 

Whether or not meat enters into the diet is a matter each 
family or individual must determine for themselves. The 
climate and season should enter into the matter in no little de- 



Meat versus Vegetarianism 125 

gree. In frigid zones, where large quantities of food in the 
form of fat must be furnished as fuel for the maintaining of 
bodily heat, it would be difficult, or indeed next to impossible 
to eliminate the use of flesh and fat of animals and fish as food, 

In temperate zones, the question of comfort, health and econ- 
omy should affect the decision. 

In torrid zones, for the sake of comfort and health, meat 
should be entirely dispensed with. In the hot stmimer months 
in temperate zones, diet composed principally of vegetables, 
fruits and grains would prove beneficial. 



CHAPTER XV. 

MEAT IMITATIONS AND MEAT SUBSTITUTES. 



THE preparations under this head do not all resemble meat, 
either in appearance or taste. Meat substitutes are 
foods of a nitrogenous character which are the equivalent 
of meat in nutritious elements. While most meat substitutes 
are not meat imitations, yet they answer the purpose of meat 
in every respCct. 

By using the meat substitutes or imitations (the meat imita- 
tions resemble meat very closely in appearance and flavor), 
there is the satisfaction of knowing that the ingredients coma 
from a pure, wholesome source. The beans, nuts, eggs, butter 
and bread that enter into these combinations are foods rich in 
nitrogenous matter, free from putrefactive agencies. 

These substitutes and imitations are easily made and are in- 
expensive. Persons of a vegetarian inclination will find them a 
welcome addition to the menu. 

Vegetarian Turkey. 

One cupful of grated bread crumbs — whole-wheat bread 
crumbs should be used — one cupful of grated English walnut 
meats, one-half cupful of grated peanuts, three-fourths cupful 
of grated rolled wheat, one cupful of lentil pulp — ^lentils must 
be pressed through puree sieve or colander — one-half cupful of 
cream, one tablespoonful of grated cheese, four well-beaten 
eggs, one tablespoonful of grated onion, one tablespoonful of 
celery, one teaspoonful of powdered sage, one and one-half 
even teaspoonfuls of salt. 

The grated bread crumbs should be slightly moistened with 
water, the nuts and rolled wheat should be grated very fine. 

126 



Meat Imitations and Meat Substitutes 127 

A regular nut grinder will answer very well for this purpose. 
Mix all the ingredients together. Put into a muslin of any 
size desired, tie up the ends and allow a little room for ex- 
pansion, otherwise the bag will burst. Either steam in steam- 
cooker or in a steamer placed over a kettle of boiling water, 
and covered as tight as possible. The meat should be allowed 
to stand at least ten or twelve hours in order that the flavor 
of the nuts may permeate the other ingredients, and 
so that the meat will set and slice nicely. Then reheat 
by steam and remove the muslin bag by cutting the threads at 
the seam. This |neat is nice served with brown gravy, apple 
or cranberry sauce. 

Imitation Sausage. 

One and one-half cupfuls of grated whole-wheat crumbs, 
one-half cupful of peanuts, one-half cupful of walnuts, three 
well-beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of whole wheat flour, one- 
half cupful of mashed potatoes, one tablespoonful of grated 
onion, a few sprays of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of 
powdered sage, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of salt. 

The bread crumbs and nuts for this preparation should be 
grated as fine as possible, eggs should be beaten rather stiff, 
and folded in after the other ingredients are mixed together. 
Then put the mixture into a muslin bag two inches in diameter, 
tie it up, allowing a little room for expansion ; steam in steam 
cooker, or in a steamer over a vessel of boiling water. The 
steamer should be closed as tight as possible to prevent steam 
from escaping. Steam three-fourths of an hour. This, like 
all other meat imitations, should be allowed to stand for ten 
or twelve hours in order that the flavor of the different in- 
gredients may permeate each other. 



128 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Beef Loaf. 

One pint of lentil pulp, one-half pint of mashed potatoes, 
two-thirds pint ground peanuts, one-half pint whole wheat 
flour or grated bread crumbs, four well-beaten eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls grated celery and onions, one-half cupful of 
butter, salt to taste. 

Mix ingredients well together and press in buttered pan or 
earthen vessel, steam from one to one and one-half hours, ac- 
cording to the thickness of the loaf. The recipe given above 
is large enough to serve fifteen or twenty people. 

Vermont Turkey. 

(Imitation White Meat.) One pint of lima bean pulp, one 
pint of yellow split pea pulp, one and one-half pints of grated 
Brazil nut meats (all the brown hull must be removed from the 
kernel, or it will color the meat and give it a dark appearance 
in spots), three- fourths pint of white flour, the beaten 
whites of six eggs, one tablespoonful of grated onion, 
one tablespoonful of grated celery, three tablespoonfuls olive 
oil or butter, one tablespoonful salt. 

Mix ingredients together and put into buttered earthen dish 
or granite pan. Press in firmly and steam for two hours. 
Then allow it to stand twenty-four hours, in order that the 
flavor of the Brazil nuts may permeate the other ingredients. 
Re-heat and slice down. Serve with cranberry or apple sauce. 

Vermont Turkey. 

(Imitation Dark Meat.) One-half pint cold mashed pota- 
toes, one pint grated English walnut or pecan meats, one-half 
pint of lentil pulp, one-half pint of grated rolled wheat (the 
rolled wheat should be put through a regular nut grater), two 
well-beaten eggs, one teaspoonful grated onion, one even tea- 
spoonful powdered sage, one heaping teaspoonful of parsley 



Meat Imitations and Meat Substitutes 129 

minced quite fine, two tablespoonfuls of olive oil (melted 
butter may be used instead), one heaping teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix the ingredients together and press in dish or pan same 
as white meat, steam in steam cooker for one hour. Allow 
the meat to stand twenty-four hours, in order that the dif- 
ferent flavors may mingle, then mould into shape of fowl and 
roast in moderate oven, basting frequently. If desired, make 
the whole amount into turkey legs and thighs. Take a piece of 
the preparation and mould into the shape of the meat on the leg, 
then probe a piece of macaroni through the center, allowing 
about four inches to extend. Dip in melted butter and place 
in oven imtil a delicate brown. Turkey thighs may be made in 
the same manner. Serve with bfown gravy, cranberry or 
apple sauce. 

Vegetarian Roast. 

One cupful of bread crumbs, one cupful of crushed peanuts, 
one-half cupful of crushed walnuts, one cupful corn pulp, one- 
half cupful cheese, two eggs, one tablespoonful grated onion, 
one heaping tablespoonful of minced parsley, one-half cupful 
of entire wheat flour, salt to taste. 

Mix the ingredients well together, press in small bread pan 
or baking dish, and bake or steam (steaming preferred) for one 
hour. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

SAUCES. 

Gravies and sauces are so generally served with meats and 
vegetables that the average housewife would feel handicapped 
should she eliminate them from her cooking. However, they 
are not essential to good cooking and are often a cause of 
digestive disturbances. Browned flour, used in any capacity, 
is decidedly unwholesome and injurious because of its devi- 
talizing and constipating effects. Hence, it is evident that 
people of sedentary habits, or if suffering from constipation, 
do themselves a great injustice by eating sauce in which 
browned flour has been used for thickening, or any foods 
rolled in flour and fried brown. 

Meat fryings, fried butter or lard, cannot occupy a place 
in a healthful diet. The excessive temperature to which they 
rise in frying, destroys their organic composition and develops 
fatty acids which irritate the stomach and antagonize digestion. 

So far as possible eliminate semi-liquid foods of the nature 
of sauces from the menu. They encourage bolting one's food 
and stimulate an abnormal appetite. However, the author is 
aware that some people will not refrain from such food, so 
there are given here a few recipes for sauces that are hygienic 
so far as ingredients are concerned, with the exception of those 
containing browned flour. 

Cream Sauce. 

Bring one cupful of thin cream to the boiling point in 
double boiler, stir in one rounding tablespoonful of flour that 
has been stirred smooth with a little milk. Season with one- 
half even teaspoonful of salt. Cook five minutes. Use to dress 

130 



Sauces 131 

cauliflower, asparagus, new Irish potatoes, onions, peas, 
creamed beans, carrots, turnips, celery, parsnips, etc. 

White Sauce. 
Heat to the scalding point one cupful of milk in the double 
boiler, thicken with one rounding tablespoonful of flour that 
has been rubbed smooth with a little milk. Season with one- 
half even teaspoonful of salt and a small piece of butter. 
Can be used for all creamed vegetables. 

Fish Sauce. 
It is always desirable to serve a sauce with steamed or 
boiled fish. Several sauces are suitable. A simple tart sauce 
can be made by using the cream or white sauce recipe and 
before removing sauce from the fire, stir in two tablespoonfuls 
of lemon juice and one or more rounding tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. 

Onion Sauce. 
Fry three medium sized onions in a covered pan with a lit- 
tle butter until they are very soft. Do not allow them to 
brown. . Rub them through a sieve and add them to one cup- 
ful or more of white sauce. Use for steamed, boiled, or 
baked fish. 

Brown Sauce. 

Brown one rounding tablespoonful of flour with one table- 
spoonful of butter in a frying pan, then add gradually onq 
cupful of brown meat stock. Stir constantly until smooth, 
season with salt and grated onion, or follow directions for 
making onion sauce substituting browned flour for raw flour. 
Use for fish or chops. 

Mushroom Sauce. 
Make a brown sauce over brown sauce recipe and after it 
has cooked five minutes, add one canful of cooked or canned 



132 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

mushrooms. Cook until mushrooms are well heated. Use 
for fowl, beef steak, croquettes, etc. 

Mustard Sauce. 

To the brown sauce, add one even tablespoonful of ground 
mustard, one tablespoonful of vinegar, and one teaspoonful of 
sugar. Serve on broiled and roast meats. 

Olive Sauce. 

Bring one cupful of clear, brown meat stock to the boiling 
point and thicken it with one rounding tablespoonful of flour 
stirred smooth with a little water, then add one-half cupful 
of ripe minced olives. If a darker color is desired, add a 
little kitchen bouquet. Use for duck, goose, or fish. 

Horse-radish Sauce. 

Shred or grate equal parts of horse-radish and crisp tur- 
nip. Blend the two, and to each cupful, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice or vinegar. Use for boiled, steamed, or 
roast meats. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Cook one tablespoonful of butter and one tablespoonful of 
flour in upper part of double boiler directly over the fire for 
one minute, then add slowly one cupful of strained tomatoes 
and stir constantly until smooth. Put upper vessel into lower 
vessel to which boiling water has been added. Add one 
tablespoonful of grated onion, two cloves and one tablespoon- 
ful of minced parsley. Cook for twenty minutes and then 
strain. Use for meat croquettes and meat imitations. 

Mint Sauce. 

Rinse the mint thoroughly in cold water, then mince enough 
to make two rounding tablespoonfuls, add it to one cupful of 
diluted lemon juice or weak vinegar. Allow it to stand for 



Sauces 133 

an hour or longer, then^add one rounding tablespoonful of 
sugar, dissolve. Strain the sauce before using. If it is too 
acid, add water to dilute. Heat before using. 
For spring lamb and mutton. 

Drawn Butter Sauce. 

Cook one-third cupful of butter arid one rounding tablespoon- 
ful of flour in sauce pan for one minute ; then add one cupful 
of boiling water and stir rapidly until' smooth. Season with 
salt and red pepper or paprica. 

Serve with steamed or baked fish. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

Clean and break into small pieces one cupful of fresh or 
canned shrimp. Make a drawn butter sauce over the above 
recipe or use the cream sauce recipe. When the sauce be- 
comes smooth, add the shrimp and stir them through. Cook 
the sauce for five minutes after the shrimps have been added. 
For surprise balls or croquettes containing potatoes. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Make over shrimp sauce recipe substituting minced lobster 
for the shrimp. Use for fish balls, potato, and oyster patties. 

03^tcr Sauce. 

Heat one cupful of oysters in their own liquor long enough 
to make them plump, which will require but a .few minutes. 
Strain them from the liquor; then bring the liquor and one 
cupful of milk or cream to the boiling point and thicken with 
one rounding tablespoonful of flour. Add the oysters, which 
may be left whole or cut in halves according to size. Use 
for fish and croquettes. 



134 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Nut Sauces. 

Select pecans, English walnuts, Brazil nuts, pine nuts, pea- 
nuts, or any other nut that is appreciated. Shred them on 
an almond grater and add one cupful of the shredded nuts 
to the tomato or brown sauce. This sauce takes the name of 
the kind of nuts used. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

To one cupful of boiling water and four tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, add one small chopped onion and one minced stem of 
celery and cook for ten minutes, then strain, return to sauce 
pan and keep hot. Rub one-fourth cupful of butter to a 
cream with one rounding tablespoonful of flour, add the yolks 
of two eggs and beat until perfectly smooth, then stir the 
heated water and vinegar slowly into the mixture. Return 
sauce to the stove and cook until it thickens, taking care not 
to permit it to boil. Serve with boiled, steamed, or baked 
fish, asparagus tips or cauliflower. 

Tart Sauce. 

Cook one-fourth cupful of butter and one rounding table- 
spoonful of flour together until they boil; then add one cup- 
ful of hot water and cook until the sauce thickens. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice or vinegar, one rounding 
tablespoonful of sugar and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Use 
for fish or croquettes. 

Meat Gravies. 

All meat gravies are made by thickening the meat stock 
with flour. Allow one even tablespoonful of more of flour to 
each cupful of stock. Gravies are not made so thick as sauces. 



CHAPTER XVII. 
EGGS. 



WHEN purchasing eggs, satisfy yourself that they arc 
fresh. Stale eggs are most unwholesome. 

Eggs are undoubtedly one, if not the most wonderful food- 
stuff in the world. To the casual observer their homogen- 
eous character and slime-like consistency is simple in construc- 
tion, and yet within their two ounces of smooth homogeneous, 
histogenetic elements lie the possibilities of a new life. 

As a food supplying protein elements, they rank among the 
highest. The white being practically a saturated solution of 
albumen! with scarcely a trace of fat, renders them extremely 
easy of digestion, and thus they are quickly appropriated to 
cell growth. 

Seven or eight eggs will yield an amount of nourishment 
equal to one pound of lean beef. They are an ideal meat 
substitute. 

As a food in sickness the egg occupies a preeminent position. 
The white is of special value in chlorotic conditions. The yolk 
being rich in organic iron, serves as a splendid tonic in anemic 
cases. The whole egg is an ideal restorative for cases of a 
suppurative character, such as pulmonary tuberculosis, etc., and 
during the convalescing period of acute diseases. In t)T)hoid 
fever, pneumonia, etc., the egg should form a prominent part 
of the diet, unless symptoms of biliousness are present. 

How Eggs Should be Prepared. 

The digestibility, the wholesomeness, the amount of nourish- 
ment yielded depends largely upon the perparation of the egg. 
All proteins, whether of animal or vegetable origin, should be 
cooked at a low temperature to preserve the original, organic 

135 



136 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

chemical combinations. The albumen of an egg should not be 
cooked until it becomes tough and homy. Fried eggs, scram- 
bled eggs (ordinary method) have no place in a hygienic diet. 
When frying an egg, the sensitive jelly-like albumen is ex- 
posed to a temperature of from 390° F. to 410° F., and in- 
tense coagulation takes place immediately and the result is a 
homy, leathery, indigestible mass. The chemical combination 
of food elements is disorganized and become lifeless. 

The ordinary methods of soft boiling eggs — ^placing them 
in boiling water and allowing them to cook from two and one- 
half to three minutes, or putting them into cold water and 
bringing them to the boiling point — are wrong in principle and 
practice. Examine an egg cooked by these methods and note 
the result. A thin layer, lying next to the shell is of a leathery 
consistency. The next portion is just properly congealed. A 
third layer, lying next to the yolk is not yet coagulated, and the 
yolk is raw. 

Follow the directions in the recipe for soft boiled eggs, 
and observe the difference. The whole egg will be heated 
evenly, and all will be gently coagulated to a jelly-like con- 
sistency. 

Raw Eggs. 

Because of traditional ideas and the long-fixed habits of cook- 
ing eggs, raw eggs do not receive the attention and credit they 
deserve; however, that does not discredit their value. When 
eggs used as a restorative they should always be eaten raw; 
they will yield a greater amount of nourishment of a vitalizing 
character than when prepared in any other way. Follow direc- 
tions in recipes. 

Soft Betted Eggs. 

Place one egg in a pint measure. Pour measure full of 
boiling water. Set aside on table and allow to stand for eight 



Eggs 137 

or ten minutes. Vessel must not be covered. Use straight 
deep vessel. One with flaring edges will allow the water to 
cool too rapidly and the egg will not congeal sufficiently. If 
six or eight eggs are desired, use half-gallon bucket. This 
method is preferable to all others. 

Eggs Poached. 

Bring water or milk to boiling point. Break the eggs into 
the boiling water or milk and allow to cook slowly until white is 
congealed. It will require from seven to ten minutes. This 
is a very good method. However, in poaching six eggs, al- 
bumen isufficient to equal one egg is lost in the water. To 
poach eggs in milk gives them a nice rich flavor. 

Steam Poached Eggs. 

Either use regular steam poacher with individual cups or 
steam-cooker. If steam-cooker is used, break eg^gfs into cups; 
have cups liberally buttered. Place cups in steamer and cook 
from five to seven minutes. Poached in this way none of the 
white is lost. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Take the number of eggs desired and beat them until whites 
and yolks are broken up. To each tgg add one teaspoonful 
of butter, and salt to taste. Pour eggs into double boiler, 
place over fire, stir gently, and cook until they become the 
desired consistency. Eggs scrambled in a frying pan are 
unwholesome. 

Egg Omdet. 

T^ke two fresh eggs, beat as stiff as possible, or whites and 
yolks^may be beaten separately and then blended. Pour the 
beaten eggs into omelet pan (frying pan may Be used). Salt 
eggs before beating. As soon as they are set on bottom begin 



138 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

to roll up on one side, and keep rolling until the entire surface 
is browned. The omelet should appear as a large puflFed roll. 

Cream Omdet. 

Take two fresh eggs, beat whites and yolks separately, salt 
to suit taste, add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream to yolks, 
blend, then fold stiflfly beaten whites into yolks, and turn into 
pan. As soon as eggs are set on bottom, begin to roll up on one 
side and keep rolling over until it becomes browned on the en- 
tire surface. 

Cheese Omelet. 

Take two fresh eggs, beat whites and yolks separately, salt 
yolks, fold beaten whites into yolks, and turn into buttered fry- 
ing pan. Just before beginning to roll sprinkle two table- 
spoonfuls of grated cheese over the top. 

Nut Omelet 

Make same as "Cheese Omelet," except that shredded nuts 
are used instead of cheese. English walnuts or pecans are 
preferable. 

Hard Boiled Eggs. 

Hard boiled eggs are not hygienic, but if used in salads or 
for garnishing they should be boiled at least twenty or thirty 
minutes. 

Eggs on Toast. 

Poach or soft boil eggs. Have ready nicely browned, well 
buttered slices of toast Place one egg on each slice. Garnish 
each with spray of parsley if desired. 

Baked Eggs. 

Break eggs into buttered gem pans, salt to suit taste, add 
piece of butter to each egg, and place in very slow oven. Eggs 



Eggs 139 

will coagulate at a temperature of 185® F. in oven or 165° F. 
in water. Serve with cream sauce if desired, or serve on 
circular pieces of toast with cream sauce poured over. 

Eggs Royal. 

Take fresh eggs, separate whites from yolks. Beat 
the whites and yolks as stiff as possible. To each yolk add 
one-third teaspoonful of sugar and dash of salt. To each 
white add one-half teaspoonful of sugar, and mix the sugar 
well through the whites. Put beaten yolks in bottom of sherbet' 
glass and stiff whites on top. This gives the tgg a very pleas- 
ing appearance. A little vanilla or lemon flavoring may be 
used if desired. 

One can soon learn to enjoy raw eggs in this style quite as 
much as cooked or fried. 

Egg Cream. 

Take two fresh eggs, add pinch of salt, beat as stiff as possi- 
ble. Then add heaping teaspoonful of sugar and one-half cup- 
ful of cream. Whipped cream preferred. Beat together, chill. 
Serve in sherbet glasses. (Splendid in sickness.) 

Lemon Egg. 

Beat one tgg as stiff as possible, add heaping teaspoonful 
of sugar, or more, a little crushed ice, and juice of one-half 
lemon. Fill glass with water. Refreshing and strengthening for 
convalescing patients. 

Eggnog. 

Take one egg, beat well, add enough rich milk to fill a glass 
tumbler. Sweeten with one even teaspoonful of sugar, add 
flavoring if desired. This makes a very pleasant and nutri- 
tious drink. Splendid in sickness. If taken before retiring 
will often induce sleep. 



140 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Sherred Eggs. 

Break the eggs into a well-buttered casserole, season with 
salt, place them in a moderately heated oven and bake un- 
til sufficiently congealed. Garnish with minced parsley. 

Eggs a la Patrick. 

With a pastry bag and tube build up a basket, or cup-shaped 
cone, with seasoned mashed potatoes. Add about one-half 
the quantity of milk to the potatoes when used for this purpose 
that would be added to potatoes when preparing to serve as 
mashed potatoes. If the potatoes are too soft the baskets 
will collapse. Place them in a hot oven until the cups are 
browned, remove, and drop one egg into each cup. Replace 
in oven and bake until eggs are congealed. Garnish with 
parsley. 

Poached Eggs. 

When poaching eggs in water, to prevent them breaking, 
place muffin rings in the pan containing the water. Have 
the rings barely covered. Bring the water to the boiling 
point, break the eggs carefully into the cups and reduce the 
heat sufficiently that the water ceases boiling. By this method 
the eggs hold their shape. Remove them with a perforated 
spoon. 

Deviled Eggs. 

Put the eggs in cold water and bring them to the boiling 
point, cook for twenty or thirty minutes, remove from kettle 
and subject to cold water. When they are chilled break the 
shell and peel. Split the egg length-wise, remove the yolks 
and mash them to a cream, add to them salt, and pepper, and 
to four yolks add one tablespoonful of cream, mix and refill the 
whites. Serve on crisp lettuce. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

FATS AND OILS. 



FATS and oils are very important constituents of food. 
They are used in the body in building fatty tissue and 
are consumed as fuel, thus serving to supply energy in the 
form of muscular force and to maintain animal temperature. 

They are the most concentrated forms in which the fuel 
constituents of food are found. Their food value is nearly 
three times that of carbohydrates (starch and sugar), hence 
they serve a very important part in nutrition. 

It is barely possible that some people consume too much fat ; 
however, if people were more particular in their selection, and 
exercised more intelligence in its use, very few digestive dis- 
orders would arise from this source. 

The most wholesome fats we have are derived from the 
vegetable kingdom. These vegetable fats can be employed in 
every capacity in which lard or butter is used, and their source 
of production insures a higher degree of purity. 

Since publishing the previous edition of this book, I have 
had occasion to make exhaustive investigations of the cotton 
oil products found on the market, most of which are very good 
and preferable to hog lard. 

Butter should never be used for frying purposes. It disor- 
ganizes chemically when it reaches the frying temperature, 
hence developing fatty, irritating acids, which disturb the 
digestive functions; whereas refined cotton oil, such as cot- 
tolene and similar high grade products, and olive oil, may be 
brought to an extremely high degree of heat before they are 
effected chemically. 

141 



CHAPTER XIX. 

VEGETABLES. 



Under this head will be treated those vegetables of a suc- 
culent nature. These vegetables have a high content of water 
and cellulose but are poor in protein, fat and starch, with the 
exception of a few, as potatoes, which yield a liberal amount of 
starch. The intrinsic value of these foods lies in their minerals 
which arc indispensable to health and vigor, and in the amount 
of fibrous tissue they supply, which furnishes the bulk that is 
essential to good digestion. They exhilarate the digestive 
processes, stimulate the vermicular motion of the intestines, 
and aid in the discharging of waste and poisons through the 
principal channels of elimination. 

Fresh vegetables are crisp and bright. If in a wilted con- 
dition, freshness can be restored to some extent by subjecting 
them to cold water. When canned v^etables are used exer- 
cise discretion and select a good brand. 

Several things are essential to observe in the cooking of 
v^etables if the most economic and hygienic results are to 
be obtained. They must not be parboiled, subjected to large 
quantities of water nor overcooked. The ordinary method 
of cooking vegetables in a copious quantity of water is econom- 
ically and physiologically wrong. This method diminishes the 
food value and the medicinal salts. All organic mineral salts, 
as found in foods are soluble in water, and because of the 
delicate structural fiber and cellular tissue of the vegetable, it 
undergoes dissolution very rapidly when subjected to boiling 
water. Hence, the food and medicinal principles escape and 
are wasted when the water in which the vegetables are cooked 

142 



Vegetables 143 

is drained off. In the face of these facts the advantage of 
cooking vegetables by steam is apparent. 

Vegetables boiled in salted water retain their bright color, 
but the question arises, Is it justifiable to sacrifice food 
values for appearance? Follow the recipes here given and 
avoid wasteful and objectionable practices. 

Carrots are an excellent, healthful food. It has been discov- 
ered quite recently by a prominent physician that a diet of 
cream carrot soup exclusively, for a period of several days, will 
invariably correct stomach and bowel disorders. But the^ 
rational idea is to use more such foods to prevent disorders, 
rather than using them alone, as a curative agency. 

Spinach, red beets, and watercress rank high as blood tonics, 
when properly prepared, because of their high per cent, of iron. 
The organic iron of this character, as found in vegetables, is in 
every way far superior to the best iron tonic that ever graced 
the shelves of an apothecary shop. 

It is doubtful, indeed, whether the human system will utilize, 
to any extent, the inorganic mineral combinations as found in 
medicines. Hence, the proverbial tonics that carry with them 
the fond hopes of renewed life and vigor invariably prove to be 
sad disappointments. 

When in need of an iron tonic, eat spinach, red beets, the 
yolks of eggs, watercress, dandelion, and they will not prove 
disappointments. The same dollar will buy your food and med- 
icine. 

The vegetables that can be used raw should always find a 
place on the table. See chapter on salads. 

Potatoes. 

The Irish potato is a staple article of food in every home, 
but they are often so carelessly cooked that the food value 
deteriorates, and they become a tax upon the digestive system. 



144 The Practice Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

To cook potatoes in the frying pan with hot fat until they 
are browned decreases their food value and digestibility. The 
starch granules are surrounded and penetrated by the hot fat ; 
this prevents the active action of the ptyalin and digestive 
ferments upon the starch. Again, if the potato is browned, 
chemical disorganization occurs to some degree, reducing the 
food value. Baking occupies first position. This method 
should be employed in cooking potatoes whenever possible. 
Potatoes boiled with their jackets on occupy second place, 
but are not considered so delicate as the baked potato. It 
is more desirable to cook potatoes by steam than boiling them 
in water. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Take smooth, medium-sized potatoes, free from specks or 
scabs. Wash thoroughly and bake in moderate oven from 
forty-five minutes to one hour. Do not bake potatoes too 
rapidly, as it forms a thick, hard crust, and destroys the most 
nutritious part — the potash salts lying next to the peel — one of 
the most important constituents of the blood. When removing 
the potatoes from the oven, press lightly between the fingers un- 
til the peel bursts, using a napkin or cloth with which to hold 
them. This renders the potato light and mealy. Baked 
potatoes should be served at once; otherwise they become 
heavy and soggy. 

Baked Mashed Potatoes. 

Pare potatoes as thin as possible, and steam in steam-cooker, 
or in an ordinary steamer placed over a kettle and covered with 
a cloth and tight lid. When potatoes are tender turn out into 
vessel, mash thoroughly, and add rich milk or cream until 
they become the proper consistency. Add salt to taste, a 
little butter, place in oven and allow to remain until they are a 
delicate brown on top. Serve with grated cheese. 



Vegetables 145 

Special Baked Potatoes. 

Bake potatoes in the ordinary manner. Remove from the 
oven. Cut off one end with a sharp knife. Scoop out the 
contents, mash thoroughly. To each pint of mashed potatoes, 
add the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs mashed to a cream, 
one tablespoonful of grated onion, and salt to taste. Put 
back into the hulls again, and place in oven until the ends are 
a delicate brown. Serve at once. 

Potatoes Cooked with the Jackets on. 

Take nice smooth potatoes, wash thoroughly, and cover with 
boiling water. Cook until tender. Do not allow the potatoes 
to remain in water after they are tender, as they are likely to 
become heavy and soggy, and therefore, difficult of digestion, 

Riced Potatoes. 

Pare potatoes and steam as for mashed potatoes, but instead 
of mashing, press through potato ricer or vegetable press into 
the serving dish. Sprinkle over the top grated cheese, and 
pour over melted butter or hot olive oil. Add salt to potatoes 
before putting them through ricer. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 
Pare and slice potatoes quite thin. Put into baking dish and 
add just enough water to keep them from burning on the bot- 
tom. Place in oven, cover with lid and allow them to cook 
slowly until nearly done, then add enough rich milk, which has 
been brought to the boiling point, to nearly cover the potatoes. 
Continue cooking until the potatoes are tender. If just com- 
mon milk is used add a small amount of butter. Salt should 
be added to the milk before it is poured over the potatoes. 

Creamed Potatoes. 
Cold potatoes that have been left over may be used, but fresh 
potatoes are always preferable. If fresh potatoes are used, 



146 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

pare and cut into small cubes. Steam until tender, add barely 
enough milk to cover, and thicken it with enough flour stirred 
smooth with milk to make the dressing the consistency of 
cream. Add a liberal amount of butter, and salt to taste. 
Garnish with parsley. 

Smothered Potatoes. 

Take one quart of thinly-sliced potatoes, put into pan with 
close-fitting cover, and add one-half cupful of butter or oil. Salt 
to suit taste. Place cover on pan, put into oven and bake 
slowly until tender. 

Duchess Potatoes. 

Take three cupfuls of riced potatoes, yolks of three eggs, 
slightly beaten, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and one-half even 
teaspoonful of salt. Mix all thoroughly together, put into 
pastry bag and form in any design desired. Desirable for bor- 
ders. 

^ Potato Balls. 

Use left-over mashed potatoes. To one pint of potatoes 
add one beaten egg, one cupful finely-chopped meat (any kind 
of cold roast or steamed meat), and one tablespoonful of 
flour. Mix thoroughly, form into round balls, place on but- 
tered pan and bake in oven until they become a delicate brown. 

Potatoes, Oyster Blanket. 

Take one quart of mashed potatoes, put into scalloping pan, 
thoroughly heat in oven, then cover with one pint of oysters, 
free from liquor, and sprinkle crackers crumbs over the oysters. 
Season with salt and butter. Return to oven and bake until 
oysters puflf up. 



Vegetables 147 

Potatoes Baked in Half-Shell. 
Select medium-sized potatoes and bake. Remove from 
oven, cut in halves, lengthwise, and scoop potato out of hulls. 
Mash, and to each pint of mashed potato add four tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, two eggs well-beaten, a little minced onion, 
salt, and butter. Put back into shells, return to hot oven and 
bake until tops are browned. 

Smothered Potatoes and Onions. 

One quart of potatoes and one quart of onions thinly sliced. 
Mix, put into baking pan, and add liberal amount of butter or 
oil. Salt to suit taste. Cover pan closely and bake in slow 
oven until tender. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. 

Select smooth, medium-sized potatoes. Wash thoroughly, 
and bake in a moderate oven until tender, which will require 
from three-fourths to one hour. Sweet potatoes, the same 
as Irish potatoes, should not be baked in too hot an oven. 
This is the most hygienic way of serving them. 

Mashed Sweet Potatoes. 

Pare potatoes quite thin. Steam until tender. Mash them 
until smooth. Season with a moderate amount of butter, and 
salt to taste. Place in oven until surface is browned. 

Steamed Sweet Potatoes. 

Pare the potatoes and place in steamer or steam-cooker, and 
cook until tender. Place in pan, dredge with melted butter 
or olive oil, sprinkle slightly with sugar and a little salt. Place 
in oven until they are a golden brown. 

Com on Cob. 

Q)m on the cob should never be cooked in water, as more 
or less of the flavor and nutritious elements always escape; 



148 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

whereas, if the corn is placed in a steamer or steam-cooker, 
all the flavor and richness of the corn is retained, and it is 
more nutritious and more easily digested. It will require^ 
from thirty to forty-five minutes to steam corn. 

Roast Com. 

Use fresh corn when in season. Take one quart of corn 
that has previously been cooked, cut from the cob, add one 
pint of rich milk, or common milk and a little butter, four 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour and one tablespoonful of 
grated onion. Beat eggs well, and stir flour into a smooth cream 
with a little milk. Add eggs, flour and onion to the com, 
and salt to taste. Place in oven, and bake just long enough 
for eggs to set. Canned com may be substituted for fresh 
com. 

Escalloped Corn. 

Put corn to depth of one-half inch in the bottom of a baking 
dish, add a little milk, then add one-half inch of whole wheat 
bread crumbs. Pour over bread crumbs a liberal amount of 
butter or olive oil. Add another layer of corn with milk, 
then a layer of crumbs seasoned with butter. Continue until 
you have the desired amount, adding bread crumbs last. 
Sprinkle slightly with cheese and bake in oven until thoroughly 
heated through. If green corn is used, it should be cooked 
before it is into the escolopping pan. 

Creamed Com. 

To each quart of corn add one cupful of rich milk, or com- 
mon milk and one heaping tablespoonful of butter. Heat to 
the boiling point, then thicken with one rounding tablespoonful 
of flour that has previously been stirred to a cream with a 
little milk. Add salt to taste. 



Vegetables 149 

Creamed Carrots. 

Carrots should be scraped or pared as thin as possible. 
Slice thin or cut in cubes, and cook in as little water as 
possible, or steam them until tender. Add one rounding tea- 
spoonful of sugar to each pint of carrots. Do not cook them 
rapidly. When carrots are tender, add enough hot milk to 
barely cover, bring to the boiling point and thicken the milk 
slightly with flour. Add a liberal amount of butter, and salt to 
taste. 

Buttered Carrots. 

Pare carrots and slice quite thin, or cut in cubes as for 
creamed carrots. Add one rounding teaspoonful of sugar 
to each pint of carrots. Steam instead of boiling if possible, 
so that none of the flavor will be extracted. When carrots 
are tender, add a liberal amount of butter, and salt to taste. 
Then bake in the oven or cook over a low flame until the water 
in the pan is evaporated. 

Carrots and Peas. 

Take one quart of sliced carrots. Cook until tender. Add 
one quart of peas. If green peas are used add peas to carrots 
and cook them together. When tender, add enough hot milk 
to barely cover, and thicken slightly with flour that has been 
stirred smooth with milk. Add a liberal amount of butter, 
and salt to taste. 

Mashed Carrots. 

If carrots have become wilted they should be put into cold 
water until crisp. Then scrape, cut in quarters and cook until 
tender. Either mash with an ordinary potato masher, or put 
them through a fine puree sieve or colander. To each pint 
of mashed carrots add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
one teaspoonful of sugar, and salt to taste. 



150 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Baked Carrots. 

Prepare carrots as for mashed carrots, omitting the butter. 
To each pint of carrots add two well-beaten eggs, one-half cup- 
ful of cream, and one even tablespoonful of flour that has been 
stirred smooth with a little milk. Bake in oven until the eggs 
are set. 

Raw Carrots. 

Take fresh, crisp carrots, scrape and put them through a 
meat chopper, using the coarsest knife. To each pint of 
grated carrots add one-half cupful of boiled salad dressing. 
Serve on a crisp lettuce leaf, and garnish with parsley. Car- 
rots served raw in this manner have a very pleasing appear- 
ance and are delicious. 



. Shredded Carrots and Turnips. 

Take half carrots and half turnips, prepare same as shredded 
carrots. 

Shredded Carrots. 

Pare small crisp carrots, and run through almond grater. 
To one pint of shredded carrots add one heaping teaspoonful 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of oil, or melted butter, and an 
even teaspoonful of salt. Serve on lettuce leaves. 



Shredded Carrots and Cheese. 

Take half shredded carrots and half shredded cheese (use 
almond grater to shred them). Mold in cups if desired, turn 
out on crisp lettuce leaf. Garnish with salad dressing and 
parsley. 



Vegetables 151 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Take medium-sized tomatoes, peel, remove the hard core in 
the center, and fill with a mixture of two parts bread crumbs, 
one part cheese, and one part grated nuts. Put into the oven and 
bake for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Baste with melted 
butter. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Take one quart of tomatoes; if canned tomatoes are used 
and there is a large amount of liquid, a portion of it should 
be drained oflf. The liquid may be used for tomato or vegeta- 
ble soup. Place the solid pieces in baking dish to the depth 
of one inch, sweeten slightly with sugar, add salt, and cover 
with a liberal amount of bread crumbs. Whole wheat or 
graham bread crumbs are preferable. Pour over bread crumbs 
a liberal amount of butter, bake in oven until the top is deli- 
cately browned. Bread crtimbs should only be put on top; 
if a layer is put between the tomatoes the bread becomes soft. 

Tomatoes and Onions. 

Take one quart of tomatoes and one quart of sliced onions. 
Stew onions until about half done in as little water as possible, 
then add the tomatoes. Cook until tender. Add a liberal 
amount of butter or olive oil, the latter preferred. (Olive 
oil may be used in almost any dish composed of tomatoes, and 
will not be easily detected.) Salt to taste, and thicken with 
a little flour which has been stirred smooth with cream if 
desired, but the flour is not necessary. 

Creamed Tomatoes. 

Select smooth, medium-sized tomatoes, peel and cook for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Thicken the liquid on the toma- 
toes with a little flour that has been stirred smooth with rich 
cream. Add salt to taste, and a liberal amount of butter. 



162 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

One tomato should be placed in each individual dish and a 
liberal amount of cream dressing poured over. 

Sliced Tomatoes. 

Cover tomatoes with boiling water, allow to remain in water 
one-fourth minute, remove and plunge into cold water. In 
this way they may be easily peeled. Cut in one-third inch 
slices. Serve on lettuce leaf. 

This is the most wholesome way tomatoes can be served, 
and a minimum amount of time is required to prepare them. 

Spinach. 

The medicinal value of spinach as an iron tonic and as 
a laxative is worthy of emphasis. Every one that does not 
enjoy this vegetable should cultivate a taste for it. 

Spinach should be cooked without the addition of water in 
order to preserve the medicinal properties. Subject the spinach 
to cold water, pick it over carefully, removing all the yellow 
and decayed leaves. Wash it through a sufficient number of 
waters to remove all the grit, and put it into, a wire basket 
to drain. Then place it in a pan with a tight fitting lid; 
enough water will cling to the leaves ;to cook it. Place an 
asbestos mat under the pan to prevent burning. Cook it from 
twenty to thirty minutes. Remove the lid for the last few 
minutes to allow any surplus water to evaporate. If the 
kitchen is equipped with a steam cooker, use the cooker for 
cooking the spinach. 

Spinach German Style. 

Chop the cooked spinach very fine. It must be free from 
liquid. Mince enough fat pork to equal one-half cup, fry it 
until crisp, then add one pint of the minced spinach and cook 
until it is thoroughly heated. Then turn into the serving dish 



Vegetables 153 

and add four tablespoonfuls of vinegar or lemon juice, and 
serve. 

Spinach au Gratin. 

Take either fresh or canned spinach. If fresh spinach is 
used, cook as directed above. Put cooked spinach into baking 
pan to depth of one inch, salt, cover with a thin layer 
of bread crumbs (graham or'whole wheat), and pour over a 
liberal amount of oil or melted butter. Place in moderately hot 
oven long enough for crumbs to become a delicate brown. Serve 
with shredded cheese. 

Spinach with Lemon Dressing. 

Melt one-fourth cupful of butter in an aluminum or granite 
sauce pan, add one even tablespoonful of flour, and cook but 
do not allow it to brown. Add one quart of cooked spinach 
and thoroughly heat. Just before turning into serving dish, 
add one- fourth cupful of lemon juice. Serve with shredded 
cheese. 

Chartreuse of Spinach. 

Prepare the spinach over recipe for "Spinach with Lemon 
Dressing," then chop the spinach very fine. Butter a small 
shallow, oval shaped baking dish, line the sides with alternate 
strips of cooked turnip and carrot, decorate the bottom with 
hard boiled egg cut in fancy designs, turn the spinach care- 
fully into the dish, place in oven until thoroughly heated. 
Turn it out on a flat dish to serve. Arrange croquettes around 
the mound of spinach. 

Creamed Onions. 

To pare the onions, stand in a draught of air or hold them 
under water to prevent the volatile, acrid acid rising to the 
eyes. Pare the required quantity and subject them to cold 



154 The Practiced Hygienic Preparation of Foods 



water until ready to ccK)k. Steam them if possible, or, if they 
are stewed, add only suiEcient water to avoid burning. When 
tender, add one pint of hot milk for each quart of onions, 
cook for five minutes, then thicken the milk with two rounding 
tablespoonfuls of flour for each pint of liquid. The cream 
sauce may be previously prepared and poured over onions 
when tender if desired. Salt onions when half done. 

Baked Onions. 

Pare onions, place in baking pan, add just enough water 
to keep them from burning in the bottom, put into moderately 
hot oven, not too hot or onions will bum around the top. Salt 
when onions are tender. Add the amount of cream sauce de- 
sired. 

Onions on Toast. 

Prepare as for creamed onions. Take thoroughly dried 
bread, toast to a delicate brown, and spread liberally with but- 
ter. Serve creamed onion on each slice. 

Smothered Onions. 

Take one quart of thinly-sliced onions, put into pan, add one 
even teaspoonful of salt and one-half cupful of oil or butter. 
Cover closely, place in slow oven and cook tender. May be 
served with or without sauce. A little lemon juice added be- 
fore serving is pleasing to the taste. 

Onions, Spanish Style. 

Pare the quantity of onions desired, steam or stew until 
tender. Serve masked with a tomato sauce. See page 132. 
for tomato sauce recipe. 

Buttered Beets. 

Young beets are preferable. Wash thoroughly, being careful 
not to break the skin, and do not trim them too closely at the 



Vegetables 155 

top or they will bleed during cooking, and lose flavor and color. 
Steam in cooker if possible. If boiled cover with boiling 
water, cook until tender, then plunge into cold water a minute 
or two, remove peel, slice very thin. To each pint of beets 
add an even tablespoonf ul of sugar, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg and salt to taste. Re-heat and serve. 

Pickled Beets. 

Cook beets as for buttered beets. Slice one-third inch in 
thickness, or divide into quarters or eighths. Cover with a 
pickle made of one part lemon juice and five parts water. 
Add sufficient sugar to give it the desired flavor. Allow the 
beets to remain in the pickle eight or ten hours before serving. 

French Beets. 

Take young beets, wash, cook tender — cook as described in 
recipe for buttered beets. Cut in small cubes and mask with 
olive oil salad dressing. 

Steamed Turnips. 

Care should be taken not to use pithy turnips. They are 
unwholesome and difficult to digest. Small turnips are 
usually of better quality than the larger ones. Peel turnips, 
slice thin, put into pan, place in steam-cooker and cook until 
tender ; then add enough milk to nearly cover, a liberal amount 
of butter, and salt to taste. If turnips are not real sweet, 
add a small amount of sugar. Allow them to cook in milk for 
fifteen minutes. They are then ready to serve. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Peel, quarter and cook turnips until tender. Mash them 
or put them through a puree sieve. To each pint of mashed 
turnips add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a very small 
amount of sugar and salt to taste. Re-heat and serve. 



156 The 'Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Creamed Turnips. 

Take young turnips, peel, and cut in small cubes. Steam until 
tender, add enough hot milk to cover, and salt to suit taste. 
Thicken milk with a little flour stirred smooth with milk. 

Turnips and Potatoes. 

Take two parts turnips and one part potatoes. Slice real 
thin, put into baking dish, add a liberal amount of oil or 
butter, add salt to suit taste. Pour on small amount of water, 
place in moderately heated oven and bake until tender. The 
potato and turnip flavors blend very nicely. 

Rutabagas. 

Rutabagas, a species of turnip, may be prepared over any of 
the recipes for turnips. 

Creamed Parsnips. 

Take fresh parsnips, pare and slice thin, or cut in small 
strips lengthwise, add sufiicient water to stew. When tender 
add salt and allow to simmer nearly dry. Dress with cream 
sauce, or hot milk may be added to parsnips and thickened 
with a little flour. Add butter or oil as desired. 

Buttered Parsnips. 

Pare fresh parsnips and slice thin. To each quart of sliced 
parsnips add a piece of butter the size of a small egg, an even 
tablespoonful of sugar, salt to taste, and one-half cupful of 
water. Cover pan closely, and bake in moderate oven. 

Buttered Squash. 

Take any kind of squash, peel, and cut in small pieces. Steam 
or cook until tender (steaming preferred). Press through a 
puree sieve or colander. To each pint of squash add a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, one heaping teaspoonful of sugar 



Vegetables 157 

and salt to taste. Place in oven and bake until sufficient water 
has evaporated to make it of the proper consistency. 

Baked Squash. 

Cut squash in halves, remove seeds, place in moderate oven 
and bake until tender. Scoop out the ijiside, mash, or 
put through sieve. To each pint of squash add two well-beaten 
eggs, one-half cupful of cream, one heaping teaspoonful of 
sugar and one heaping teaspoonful of flour that has been 
stirred smooth with a part of the cream. Bake in moderate 
oven until the eggs are set. Any kind of good pumpkin may 
be substituted for squash. 

Asparagus Points. 

When purchasing asparagus see that the tips are fresh and 
tender. Wash them thoroughly and tie four stems in a bunch. 
If the tips are young, steam them; if old, immerse them in 
boiling water to cook, otherwise old asparagus will be very 
bitter. Place the asparagus in the serving dish and mask with 
cream sauce made of one-half milk, and one-half water from 
the pan in which the asparagus was cooked, and thicken with 
flour. 

Asparagus on Toast. 

Cook the asparagus as directed in recipe for asparagus 
points. Arrange several tips on each piece of buttered toast, 
and mask with cream or tomato sauce. 

Asparagus Points Spanish Sauce. 

Cook the asparagus as directed in recipe for "Asparagus 
Points." Mask the asparagus in serving dish with tomato 
sauce, liberally seasoned with red pepper. For tomato sauce 
see page 132. 



158 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Asparagus au GratiiL 

Cook asparagus as directed in recipe for asparagus points. 
When tender, cover bottom of baking dish to depth of one 
inch, season with salt, cover with a liberal amount of dry 
bread crumbs, and add a liberal amount of butter. Bake in oven 
until a delicate brown. 

Creamed Cauliflower. 

Always secure creamy white heads. Those with dark spots 
are wilted. Wash thoroughly ; a very good way is to hold head 
under faucet of hydrant or under the pump spout. Dip in warm 
water to which a little vinegar has been added, to 
drive out any insects that may remain. Divide into neat 
branches, and steam on plate, or put into muslin bag and cook in 
water. Steaming is best and more convenient Cook slowly 
until tender. Serve in dish with cream sauce. See page 130 
for sauces. 

Buttered Cauliflower. 

Cook as for creamed cauliflower. When tender cut in 
small pieces. To each pint of cauliflower add a liberal amount 
of oil or butter and salt to taste. Bake in oven a few minutes 
and stir gently two or three times in order that the butter may 
be distributed. 

Cauliflower with Tomato Sauce. 

Cook as for creamed cauliflower. When tender serve in 
dish and pour over tomato sauce, made as follows: to one 
pint of strained, stewed tomatoes, heated to the boiling point, 
add one heaping tablespoonf ul of flour stirred smooth in a little 
water, butter, or oil, and salt to taste. 



Vegetables 159 

Pickled Cauliflower. 

Cook as directed in recipe for creamed cauliflower. Hace in 
jar and cover with a pickle made of one part lemon juice and 
five parts water, and add sugar to suit the taste. 

Celery. 

One of the most favored and deserving vegetables grown. 
Its unique flavor has won for it great popularity, and although 
it does not possess any special properties as a nerve tonic, as 
has been claimed, it nevertheless does possess medicinal 
properties worthy of attention. 

Celery is so much more wholesome and medicinal eaten raw 
in salads than when cooked, that one is not justified in using it 
as a cooked vegetable, except when too tough or unbleached 
to use it otherwise. 

Creamed Celery. 

Cut celery in lengths one-half inch long. If celery is wilted, 
crisp in cold water before cutting. Put into stew pan, add 
small amount of boiling water, and cook slowly for twenty 
or thirty minutes. In that time it should be tender. Then add 
enough hot milk to nearly cover celery. Thicken liquid with 
a little flour. Add a liberal amount of butter and salt to taste. 

Celery on Toast. 

This is prepared the same as creamed celery, except that the 
celery is cut into two-inch lengths. Lay four or five pieces on 
each slice of buttered toast, and add a liberal amount of the 
cream sauce. See page 130 for cream sauce recipe. 

Celery au Gratin. 

Cut crisp celery in half-inch lengths, and steam in steam 
cooker until tender. Make a white sauce over recipe on 
page 131. Put a layer of the steamed celery into the bottom of 



160 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

2L bake dish, cover with the white sauce, and sprinkle over a 
small amount of grated cream cheese. Season with salt and 
a dash of pepper. Add a second layer of celery, sauce, grated 
cheese, and seasoning. Cover the top with a layer of dry 
bread crumbs, and bake in oven until sauce begins to bubble 
through crumbs. 

Cabbage Imperial. 

Crisp a medium-sized, flat head of cabbage in cold water. 
Draw two layers of the outside leaves back carefully; avoid 
breaking them loose from the base. With a sharp knife cut 
out the center of the head, forming a basket of the outside 
leaves. Chop the cabbage removed from head with a knife 
or vegetable chopper until very fine. Blend with it one 
medium-sized carrot, two medium-sized potatoes sliced thin, 
and one cupful of chipped roast fowl or beef. Season with 
salt, and place the mixture into the cabbage basket, pressing in 
firmly. Draw the outside leaves over top, put into bake pan, or 
dish just large enough to receive the head nicely, and bake in 
moderately hot oven one hour or more. 

Cabbage Royal. 

Use equal parts of cabbage and Irish potatoes. Crisp the 
cabbage and cut on slaw cutter, or cut fine with a sharp knife, 
and slice the potatoes thin. Put alternate layers of cabbage and 
potatoes into baking dish, season each layer with salt and 
a dash of red pepper. Pour over it enough clear white meat 
stock to nearly cover, and bake in oven, or fireless cooker, for 
one hour, or until cabbage is tender. 

Cooked Cream Slaw. 

Crisp the cabbage in cold water and cut fine on slaw cutter. 
Put into kettle, add a little boiling water and stew for twenty 
minutes. Season with salt, and to each pint of the stewed 



Vegetables 161 

cabbage, add one-half cupful of cream, three tablespoonfuls 
of lemon juice or vinegar and one-third cupful of sugar. A 
thin white sauce may be substituted for the cream if desired. 

Steamed Cabbage. 

Crisp the cabbage in cold" water if wilted. Then cut the 
head in quarters or eighths, and add several bits of butter and 
salt to season. Place in steam cooker, and steam for forty 
minutes. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Crisp one mediiun-sized head of cabbage in cold water, then 
cut it in sections. Bring to the boiling point one quart of 
beef broth in the kettle in which cabbage is to be cooked. Add 
the cabbage to the kettle^ place tight fitting lid on tc^, and 
cook until tender. Usual time forty minutes. 

Cabbage au Gratin. 

Crisp the head of cabbage in cold water, then cut rather 
coarse on slaw cutter, and steam in steam cooker until tender. 
Make a white sauce over recipe on page 131. Spread a 
layer of the steamed cabbage on the bottom of a bake dish. 
Add a second layer of cabbage, sauce, cheese, and seasoning, 
cream cheese. Season with salt and a dash of red pepper 
Add a second layer of cabbage, sauce, cheese, and seasoning. 
Cover the top with a layer of dry bread crumbs, and bake in 
oven until the sauce begins to bubble through the crumbs. 

Creamed Salsify. (Oyster Plant.) 

Wash and scrape the roots and immerse in cold water to pre- 
vent discoloration. Cut the roots into one-half inch lengths. 
Steam or stew until tender, season with salt when half done. 
Serve with a white sauce. See page 131 for sauce recipe. 



162 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Salsify Oysters Baked. 

Scrape the roots and stew until very tender, then press them 
through a puree sieve or colander. To each pint of the salsify 
pulp, add two beaten eggs and one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour. Season with salt and butter. Cook in oven or double 
boiler until mixture is stiflf; then allow to cool. Form into 
cakes the shape of large oysters, dip into melted butter or oil, 
roll in bread cnmibs, put on greased pan, and bake in moderate 
oven until crumbs are a delicate brown. 

Carrots or parsnips may be substituted in this recipe. 

Kale. 

Discard all yellow or tough leaves. Wash it through several 
waters and then immerse in warm (not hot) water to which a 
little vinegar has been added, to drive off any 
small insects that may be clinging to it. This 
vegetable, because of its distinct, pronounced flavor requires 
that it be cooked in water and then drained. Time for cook- 
ing twenty minutes, or longer when kale is old. For each 
pint of the cooked kale, mince one-half cupful of fat pork, 
and fry brown in frying pan. Then drain all the rendered 
fat off, and turn the kale, drained free from water, into the 
pan containing the pork. Blend the meat with the kale and 
season with salt and vinegar. 

Melted butter, or heated olive oil, and lemon juice is a more 
wholesome dressing than the pork and vinegar for kale and 
similar vegetables. 

Dandelion. 

Prepare over recipes for kale. 

Sour Dock. 
Prepare over recipes for kale. 



r 
t 



Vegetables 163 

Endive Tart Sauoe. 

Crisp the endive in cold water, then separate the leaves and 
wash thoroughly. Cook it twenty minutes. Enough water 
to cook it will adhere to the leaves, if the kettle is placed on 
an asbestos plate and it is allowed to cook slowly. Serve with 
one of the following dressings, cream dressing an.d vinegar, 
olive oil dressing, or boiled salad dressing. See page l3l for 
dressings. 

Okra. 

Wash the okra carefully, cut in one-half inch lengths, and 
steam or stew until tender. Add salt when half cooked. 
Serve with a tart sauce. See page 134 for tart sauce recipe. 



CHAPTER XX. 

LEGUMES. 



Beans, peas, and lentils are characterized as legumes (the 
time honored pulse of Biblical History,) They are highly 
nitrogenous, filling the same offices as meat in the scheme of 
nutrition ; and, in addition, suppl)ring some starch, hendfe, serv- 
ing as a substitute for flesh foods. One pound of dry legumes 
is equivalent to one pound of meat in protein. However, it 
does not necessarily follow that the legumes yield the same 
percentage of protein to the system. The relative digestibility 
of vegetable and animal proteins must be taken into considera- 
tion. The nutritive value of any carbonaceous food does not 
alone depend upon the protein present, but upon the amount 
the digestive system can make available for body uses. The 
vegetable protein molecule is the more complicated and does 
not yield to digestion with the same degree of ease. However, 
this objection may be overcome to some extent by correct 
cooking. 

How to Cook Legumes. 

The legumes in their dry, ripe state, after being thoroughly 
washed, should be soaked for several hours, then cooked at 
the simmering point for an extended period of time — ^five or 
six hours. They may be steamed, stewed, or baked. All 
vegetable proteins are improved by prolonged, gentle cooking 
in that they yield to digestion with greater ease. 

The starch granules in the bean are surrounded by double 
cellular walls of tissue, and without gentle, prolonged cooking 
this tissue is not sufficiently softened and broken down ; hence 

164 



Legumes 165 

they remain intact until fermentation takes place and suf- 
ficient gas forms to burst the cells. As a result they often 
cause flatulency. 

Beans and peas in their green state do not possess these pro- 
nounced characteristics, hence less cooking is sufficient. 

Creamed Beans. 

Navy, lima, or kidney beans may be prepared over this re- 
cipe. Wash the beans thoroughly and soak over night in 
sufficient water to keep them covered. In the morning bring 
to the boiling point, and pour the water off; add fresh boiling 
water, place on the stove where they will barely simmer (use 
a vessel with a tight-fitting lid), and cook for five or six hours. 
Replenish the water if necessary. One hour before they are 
done, add one-half cupful of milk or cream for each pint of 
beans. Season at this time with salt, and add butter if milk is 
used. 

Spanish Beans. 
Use lima or navy beans for this recipe. Cook the beans 
as for creamed beans ; instead of adding milk add to each 
quart of beans one cupful of strained tomatoes, one large 
minced onion, one-fourth cupful of butter, one-eighth tea- 
spoonful of red pepper and one even teaspoonf ul of salt. Turn 
into a baking dish and cook in oven until sufficient water is 
evaporated to make the beans the desired consistency. 

Buttered Beans. 

Cook the beans as directed in recipe for creamed beans. 
Omit the milk or cream, and to each quart of beans add one- 
half cupful of butter or oil, one large minced onion, two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, one even teaspoonful of 
salt. Cook or bake for thirty minutes after the other in- 
gredients have been added. 



166 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Bean Puree. 

Cook beans as for creamed beans. When they are tender, 
turn them into a puree sieve and drain (preserve the liquid 
for soup). Press the beans through the sieve, and to each 
pint of the pulp add one even teaspoonful of salt and a small 
piece of butter. If the pulp is too thin, put it into a hot oven 
and stir frequently until it becomes the consistency of mashed 
potatoes. Serve tomato catsup with bean puree. 

Marbled Beans. 

G)ok one pint of navy or lima beans, when tender drain the 
liquid off. Beans should be allowed to cook with as little 
water as possible, so that when done there is very little if any 
liquid to drain off. Rub beans through a puree sieve or col- 
ander as for bean puree.Add to the quart of bean pulp two 
rounding tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half cupful of melted 
butter, one small grated onion, and salt to taste. Cook one- 
half pint of dry kidney b^ns. Put through puree sieve or 
colander and season with the same proportions according to 
the amount of beans given above. Then butter a small square 
bread pan, put a layer of the white bean pulp in the bottom 
of the pan, using one-half of the mixture. Then add the 
kidney or brown bean pulp, and put over this the remainder 
of the white bean pulp. Place in a moderate oven and bake 
three-fourths of an hour. Slice down same as meat loaf. 
Serve with a brown gravy or apple sauce. 

Lentils may be used instead of the brown or kidney beans 
if desired. 

Bean Loaf. 

Take one quart of cooked navy beans, put them through a 
puree sieve or colander, add two wdl-beaten eggs, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one cupful of grated nut meats (English wal- 



Legumes 167 

nuts preferred), salt to taste. Put into a small pan and bake for 
forty-five minutes in a moderately hot oven. 

Com and Beans. 

Take one pint of dry lima beans, cook and season as for 
creamed beans. Fifteen minutes before serving add one quart 
of canned or cooked sweet com; season with onion, butter 
and salt. 

Green Beans. 

Get fresh, tender beans. If the pods bend and appear 
wilted they are stale. If not of the stringless variety be 
careful to remove all strings. 

Creamed Green Beans. 

Break pods in center or cut in inch lengths. Cook in suf- 
ficient water to keep from burning, or steam them. Cook 
from one to four hours according to variety. When tender, 
to each quart of beans add one even teaspoonful of salt and 
one cupful of cream. Beans should be allowed to boil nearly 
dry before adding cream. Cook twenty minutes after cream 
is added. Thicken with a little flour braided with milk. 

Buttered Green Beans. 

Get crisp, tender beans, remove strings, cut in inch lengths, 
and cook in sufficient water to keep from burning. To each quart 
of beans add an even teaspoonful of salt and 'a half cupful 
of butter a half hour before they are done. Allow beans to 
cook nearly dry before removing from the fire. Olive oil or the 
highly-refined cotton seed oil may be used as a substitute for 
butter. 

Steam Baked Beans. 

Wash and soak one pint of navy beans over night. In the 
moming drain the water off, add boiling water and simmer for 



168 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

one hour. Turn into one-half gallon earthen jar. 
Season with one cupful of minced ham— fat portion, 
two tablespoonfuls of molasses or dark brown sugar, one 
large minced onion, and one rounding teaspoonf ul of salt. Blend 
the seasonings with the beans, place jar in the fireless cooker on 
heated radiator, or in the steam cooker, and cook for ten hours. 
If the fireless cooker is used re-heat the radiator at the end 
of five hours. 

German Baked Beans. 

Proceed as for Steam Baked Beans in recipe above; after 
the seasonings are added, place the beans in a moderately hot 
oven and as the liquid evaporates add rich milk to replace it. 

Beans en Casserole. 

Wash and soak one pint of navy or lima beans over night. 
In the morning bring them to the boiling point and immediate- 
ly drain the water off. Turn the beans into a two quart cas- 
serole or baking dish with tight-fitting lid. Season with salt 
and one cupful of minced celery, cover with a rich, amber 
colored meat stock, and cook for six hours in moderate oven. 

Wax Beans Piquant. 

Purchase the crisp, yellow, wax beans. Qean, wash thor- 
oughly, and cook for two hours, allowing the water to boil 
entirely away before removing them from the stove. Chop 
them up very fine, season with salt and pepper, and mask with 
a tart sauce. Serve hot. See page 134 for receipe for sauce. 

Green Beans Tennessee Style. 

Select crisp, green beans, wash and string. To two quarts 
of the beans add one-half pound of bacon and cook in an iron 
pot for four hours or longer. Add hot water as necessary to 



Legumes 169 

keep them from burning, but permit the beans to cook nearly dry 
before serving. 

Green Beans Creamed. 

Wash and carefully string the beans. Steam or cook in a ket- 
tle over the fire for two hours, season with salt and add one 
pint of milk for each quart of beans. Cook thirty minutes 
after milk has been added, then thicken the liquid with a 
little flour stirred smooth with milk. 

Peas Creamed. 

When purchasing green peas see that the pods are green 
and crisp; if pale and wilted the peas will be hard. Cook 
green peas one hour before adding the milk, allow them to 
cook ten minutes in the milk before thickening it with flour. 
Season the peas with salt when half done, and add butter just 
before removing them from the stove. 

Green Peas and New Potatoes. 

Take equal parts of green peas and new potatoes. Put the 
peas over the stove and cook thirty minutes then add the 
potatoes to the kettle and cook until potatoes are tender. To 
every quart of peas and potatoes add one pint of milk. Bring 
the kettle to the boiling point again, and thicken the milk with 
one rounding tablespoonful of flour stirred smooth with a 
little milk. Season with salt when the potatoes are added. 
Add one even teaspoonful of sugar for every pint of peas, 
when the peas are put over the fire. 

Buttered Peas. 

Put the peas over the fire and cook forty minutes. The 
amount of water used should be guaged so that the peas are 
about dry when done, then to each pint of peas add one- fourth 
cupful of butter, one rounding teaspoonful of sugar and one 



170 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

even teaspoonful of salt Cook fifteen minutes longer using 
only sufiicient water to avoid burning. 

Peas and Celery. 

Take equal parts of green peas and celery; cut the celery 
in one-half inch lengths. Put them over the fire, add boiling 
water and cook slowly for forty minutes. Then add one 
cupful of milk for each pint of the peas and celery, cook ten 
minutes longer, and thicken the milk with flour stirred smooth 
with milk. Season when half done with one even teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and one rounding teaspoonful of sugar for each 
pint of the vegetables. 

Peas and Tomatoes. 

Put the desired amount of peas over the stove and cook for 
thirty minutes ; then to each pint of peas, add one rounding 
teaspoonful of salt, two rounding teaspoonfuls of sugar, and 
one pint of ripe tomatoes cut in cubes. Cook twenty minutes 
longer, and add a liberal amount of butter just before removing 
the kettle from the fire. 

Canned Peas. 

Many wcxnen are accustomed to draining and washing 
canned peas, which practice means a loss of food elements. 
If the liquid to which the peas have been subjected for possi- 
bly months, is not fit for use, then the peas are also objectiona- 
ble. The canned peas may be substituted for green peas in 
any of the foregoing recipes; however, the canned product 
requires but very little cooking. 

Pea Puree. 

Use cither the yellow or green split peas. Cook them as 
directed to cook the dry legumes. (See page 164.) Make 
the puree as directed in the recipe for bean puree on page 166. 



Legumes 171 

Pea Loaf. 

Use the yellow split peas. Gx)k as directed to cook all dry 
legumes, and make the loaf over the recipe for bean loaf 
on page 166. 

Lentils. 
Lentils are used extensively in Germany and some other 
coimtries, but they do not find favor in America. However, 
people with vegetarian inclinations will find them excellent 
in the preparation of meat imitations, and also desirable for 
soups. 



CHAPTER XXI. 

RICE AND MACARONI. 



ONE-HALF the human race makes rice its chief food, 
and by virtue of its merits, it deserves a prominent place 
in the economy of nutrition. 

America has been blessed with such a superabundance of 
foodstuffs, both in quantity and quality, that some of the 
cheaper forms of food, such as rice and macaroni, occupy a 
secondary position. However, rice as a food equals the other 
cereals, and has the advantage over most foods of being digest- 
ed in one hour and hence, yields a greater amount of nourish- 
ment in proportion to the nervous and physical energy expend- 
ed in its digestion than almost any other food. Its cheapness 
and wholesomeness should be an argument in its favor, and 
when properly cooked and blended with other foods, it forms 
one of the choicest dishes. 

Do not make the mistake of cooking rice in a large quantity 
of water. This is a method almost universally used and is 
taught by many cooking teachers, but it would be difficult to 
conceive of a method more undesirable. It robs it of its choic- 
est flavor, dissolves a portion of its food elements, and extracts 
the mineral salts. The two preferable methods are steaming 
and cooking in the double-boiler, and allowing the amount of 
water the rice will absorb, namely, three parts water to one 
part rice. Season as directed in recipes. 

Use unpolished rice when in a locality where it is obtainable. 
It is very similar in appearance to the polished product, and 
contains the original phosphates and some protein, which are 
removed in the process of polishing. It is to be hoped that 

172 



Rice and Macaroni 173 

sometime, healthfulness of foods will take precedence to ap- 
pearance. 

i 

Rice and Cheese. 

Take one-half cupful of rice, wash thoroughly, and add one 
and one-half cupfuls of boiling water. Cook in a steam- 
cooker or double-boiler (steam-cooker preferred) until tender, 
which will be about thirty minutes in the cooker, or thirty-five 
minutes in the double boiler. When rice is tender all the 
water should be absorbed. Then add one pint of sweet milk, 
Ten minutes after adding the milk add one-half or three- 
fourths of a cupful of grated cheese. Fold the cheese through 
the rice until it becomes creamy. Salt should be added to the 
rice before adding milk. It is not necessary to add butter. 
The cheese gives the rice a rich flavor. 

This can be highly reconmiended. It makes a well-balanced 
dish. The rice being rich in starch and the cheese furnishing 
the protein. 

Rice, Spanish Style. 

Heat one pint of strained tomatoes in the double boiler. 
Wash one-half cupful of rice, add it to the tomatoes. Season 
with one large minced onion, one even teaspoonful of salt, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of red pepper and one-fourth cupful 
of butter. Cook until rice is tender. This dish is more 
wholesome if pepper is omitted. 

Rice Bermuda. 

Wash one-half cupful of rice, put it into an earthen baking 
dish or granite sauce pan, add one cupful of minced onion, 
and one pint of rich dark meat stock. Season with salt and a 
small piece of butter. Bake in moderate oven until rice is 
tender. 



174 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Rice Unique. 

Cook one-half cupful of rice with one and one-half cupfuls 
of milk in double boiler or steam cooker. Twenty minutes 
after rice has begun cooking, add one cupful of blanched and 
shredded Brazil nut meats. Season with salt when nuts are 
added, and finish cooking. 

Rice Condign. 

To one pint of heated meat stock, add two-thirds cupful 
of carefully washed rice, and one cupful of minced fowl, 
preferably the white meat. Season with salt, one minced 
pimento and one minced sweet pepper. Cook in double boiler 
about forty-five minutes. 

Rice, Southern Style. 

Have one gallon of salted water boiling rapidly in kettle, 
slowly sprinkle into it one cupful of washed rice. Keep the 
water boiling continually, cook for twenty minutes, turn rice 
into sieve, drain the water off and allow cold water from the 
hydrant or pump spout to run over it for a moment. Then 
place the sieve containing rice into oven or over a kettle of boil- 
ing water for five minutes. 

Macaroni. 

Macaroni, spaghetti and vermicelli, though different in form, 
are the same in composition, when the same brand, and the 
product of one factory. Of course, goods from different 
factories vary in quality, owing to the character of the flour 
and the method of manufacturing. 

Good brands of macaroni are worthy of much attention, as 
they supply one of the best and cheapest forms of carbohydrates 
and vegetable protein. 

Discriminate closely in purchasing macaroni. See that the 
brand is rich in gluten. This may be determined to some 



Rice and Macaroni 175 

degree by cooking. An inferior product will become soft and 
soggy ; an indication of an undue amount of starch. 

Domestic brands are usually preferable, owing to the more 
sanitary^ conditions of the factories, and the uncleanliness of 
much of the imported goods. 

The author on his lecture trips has inspected many of the 
home macaroni factories. Many were found to be scrupulous- 
ly clean and sanitary, and none were found to be in the filthy 
condition that is found in many of the Italian factories abroad. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

To one quart of boiling, salted water add one pint of broken 
macaroni. Cook in double-boiler or steam-cooker (cooker 
preferred) until tepder. It will require about thirty minutes. 
Then add one pint of hot milk in which there has been dis- 
solved one cupful of grated cheese. Season with minced 
onion, if desired. Place in hot oven and bake until top be- 
comes a delicate brown. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. 

Cook as for "Macaroni and Cheese." Omit cheese and 
milk. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Macaroni with Tomato. 

To one quart of boiling strained tomatoes add gradually one 
pint of broken macaroni. Cook in double-boiler or steam- 
cooker. It will require forty minutes. When tender add one- 
half cupful of cream or butter. Add salt and a dash of pepper 
to tomatoes when adding macaroni. 

Macaroni Polenta. 

To one pint of salted boiling water, add one-half pint of 
macaroni broken in inch lengths. Cook until tender, then add 
one pint of cooked or canned com. Add butter or oil. Bake in 



176 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

moderate oven until a delicate brown on top. Serve with 
Brown Sauce (page 131). 

Macaroni au Gratin. 

To one pint of boiling beef or chicken stock add one minced 
onion and one-half pint of broken macaroni. Cook in double- 
boiler or cooker until tender, then add one cupful of chopped 
chicken or beef. Cover top with dry bread crumbs. Season 
with melted butter. Bake in oven until a delicate brown. 
Serve with Brown Sauce (page 131). 

Spaghetti. 

Spaghetti may be substituted for macaroni in any of the 
recipes for macaroni. 

Meat Dimiplings. 

One pint of sifted flour, one beaten egg, one cupful of milk, 
and one heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. Blend the 
baking powder with the flour, then stir in the milk and beaten 
egg. Stir to a smooth batter, and drop into the kettle in 
small spoonfuls. 

Pot Pie. 

Take two cupfuls of sifted flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
shortening, five tablespoonfuls of milk, one rounding teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, one egg and one-half even teaspoonful of 
salt. Blend the baking powder with the flour, and work the 
shortening through, then stir in the beaten egg and milk. Roll 
out in thin sheet, and cut in squares. The dough can be cooked 
in the meat stock or it may be baked and the broth poured over 
just before serving. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

SALADS. 



NOWHERE in nature's hidden laboratories does she be- 
stow so beneficently the properties required by man 
(namely, mineral salts) for the maintenance of normal health 
as in the vegetable kingdom. But our housewives and home- 
keepers are so uninformed about food matters, that some foods 
most essential to health, scarcely, if ever, find their way to the 
table; and too often when vegetables are served, they are 
cooked by boiling in water and their essence drained off, so 
that we may eat the depleted residue, and the soluble salts 
(tonics) are almost, or entirely lost. 

Raw vegetables, prepared in the form of salads, are regarded 
too much as extras or luxuries by Americans, and are eaten at 
the dose of a full meal, and hence receive very little attention. 
The importance of raw vegetables in the economy of health 
should demand that they occupy a prominent position on every 
menu. 

It is possible to procure vegetables of some description 
throughout the entire year, and at a moderate cost; celery, 
spinach, tomatoes, lettuce, cresses, onions, cabbage, carrots, 
turnips, endive, dandelions, radishes, mustard, okra, aspara- 
gus, beets— of these there is a constant supply, and all con- 
tain one or more of the valuable and essential mineral ele- 
ments. 

We often meet the objection that salads cause flatulence and 
indigestion. This trouble is invariably the result of unhygienic 
salad dressing, or improper mastication, and hence no fault of 
the vegetables. Salads need to be thoroughly masticated (this 

177 



178 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

applies equally to other foods), and the dressing should be of a 
non-stimulating, non-irritating character. 

Ladies should know that the mineral constituents of vegeta- 
bles freshen the complexion, give lustre to the cheeks, and 
prevent obesity. 

In the face of such evidence, it would seem that every 
woman would exercise the greatest possible care in preserving 
these elements in vegetables. But it would seem, from a refer- 
ence to the recipes in most cook books, that the greatest possi- 
ble care is taken to get rid of them in cooked vegetables rather 
than to ensure their preservation. 

Salad Gamishings. 

It is quite as desirable to have foods pleasing in appearance 
as in taste, and salads are so improved by gamishings that the 
only excuse for omitting them is the inability to procure them. 
However, the woman within reach of a market can always 
purchase suitable vegetables, nuts, canned sweet peppers, or 
pimentos, which may be used to advantage in garnishing 
salads. 

The following are the vegetables most commonly used 
for gamishings : lettuce, parsley, cresses, tomatoes sliced thin, 
blanched celery leaves, red radishes, sliced or cut in flowerets, 
nuts of various kinds, either whole or shredded. Of these 
a woman can have a constant supply. Crisp lettuce leaves 
are preferable for the base on which to serve a salad, and other 
gamishings may be used on top. 

SALAD DRESSINGS. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Yolks of two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, one 
and one-half cupfuls of oil — olive or refined cottonseed oil, 
one even teaspoonful of salt dissolved in the lemon juice. 



Salads 179 

Beat yolks thoroughly, add oil gradually, and stir constantly^ 
As the mixture thickens, thin with lemon juice. Add oil and 
lemon juice alternately until all is used, beating constantly. 
If oil is added too rapidly the dressing will have a curded 
appearance; in which case a smooth consistency may be re- 
stored by taking another beaten egg yolk and adding the curded 
mixture to it gradually. Oil for making dressing should be thor- 
oughly chilled. Use Dover egg-beater, or regular mayonnaise 
mixer. To add oil gradually, put it in a bottle and cut a V in 
the side of the cork, just large enough that the oil will flow 
slowly. 

This dressing will keep indefinitely if put into a jar with a 
tight lid and kept in the refrigerator or in a cold place. (De- 
sirable for all salads.) 

Mayonnaise Fluff Dressing. 

Make mayonnaise over the above recipe. When wishing 
to use, to one cupful of the mayonnaise dressing add one cup- 
ful of stiffly whipped cream. 

Sour Cream Dressing. 

Take one pint of double cream. Allow it to stand twenty- 
four hours after beginning to sour. Just before wishing to 
use, whip very stiff, add one tablespoonful of sugar and two 
of lemon juice. Beat sugar and lemon juice through the 
cream until sugar is all dissolved, when it is ready for use. 

Good for all vegetable salads, except those in which red 
beets are used because of the undesirable color effect. 

Victoria S&lad Dressing. 

Take two eggs and beat them to a stiff froth. Take three- 
fourths cupful of cream and beat until stiff enough to stand. 
Take the juice of one lemon and three tablespoonfuls of olive 
oily beat together until it becomes thick, then add the cream and 



180 The Practical Hygienic- PreparaHon of Poods 

the beaten eggs. Add salt to taste. This makes a very 
delicious and nutritious dressing. 

Olive Oil Dressing. 

Take one-fourth cupful of lemon juice, and one-half cupful 
of oil. To the lemon juice add one even teaspoonful of salt 
and dissolve. Then add the oil slowly in a thin stream, and 
beat constantly with a Dover egg-beater until the mixture 
becomes a creamy mass. Should be used soon after it is 
made. Desirable for all v^;etable and meat salads. 

Lemon Salad Dressing. 

Bring one-third cupful of lemon juice and two-thirds cup- 
ful of water to the boiling point Stir it into three well-beaten 
^Sg^f turn into double-boiler, and cook until mixture thickens. 
Stir constantly, do not allow to boil, and remove at once when 
eg^ thicken or they will become curded. When chilled, 
beat into this one-third cupful of oil. Season with salt, and 
a little mustard if desired. For meat and v^fetable salads. 

Boiled Dressing. 
Heat one-fourth cupful of butter, cottolene, or oil in sauce 
pan with one rounding tablespoonful of flour. Do not allow 
flour to« brown. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a bowl and 
add to them one-half cupful of sugar, one cupful of water, 
one-half cupful of lemon juice and one even teaspoonful of 
salt. Dissolve the sugar and gradually pour this into the 
flour and fat stirring constantly and cooking until the mixture 
thickens. Then chill. Desirable for meat, vegetable or fruit 
salads. Add more sugar when used for fruit salads. 

Flu£F Boiled Dressing. 
To one cupful of the above boiled dressing, add the stiffly 
beaten whites of two tggs or one cupful of stiffly whipped 
cream. 



Salads 181 

French Dressing. 

Make over olive oil dressing recipe on page 180 and season 
with paprica or red pepper. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Take one large stalk of lettuce. Crisp in ice cold water. 
Cut leaves in one-half inch lengths. Add one-fourth as much 
celery as lettuce. Use either the sour cream or olive oil 
dressing. Garnish with three or four small cubes of ripe 
tomatoes and a spray of parsley. 

Watercress Salad. 

Remove roots, wash, drain and chill. Cut in half-inch 
lengths and mask with olive oil dressing. Serve on crisp 
lettuce ; garnish with small cubes of carrot, red beet or sweet 
red mango. 

Watercress and Tomato Salad. 

Prepare watercress and add one red tomato cut in small 
cubes. Mask with sour cream dressing. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Take tender asparagus tips and steam (not boil) until tender. 
Cut rings from a red mango, and fill rings with as- 
paragus tips. Arrange on lettuce leaves. Mask with sour 
cream or mayonnaise dressing. 

String Bean Salad. 

Cook wax beans until tender and chill. Then cut in short 
lengths, and mask with olive oil or lemon dressing. 
Garnish each serving with a spray of parsley, and at 
the base form a ring of thin slices of red radish over- 
lapping each other. 






182 The Practical Hygienic PreparaHon of Foods 

Vegetable Salad. 

Take equal parts celery, grated carrots and small cubes of 
red beet. Mask with dressing desired. Scoop out the pulp 
of tomatoes from stem end, fill tomato with salad, pour over 
top a little whipped cream. Garnish with parsley or nuts. 
Any salad may be served in tomato cups. 

Vegetable Salad. 

Take one cupful ripe tomatoes cut in cubes, one cupful of 
celery, one cupful of cabbage, one cupful of grated carrots 
and two cupfuls of chopped lettuce. Add to this two-thirds 
of a cupful of olive oil salad dressing. Garnish each serving 
with halves of English walnut meats. 

Celery Apple Salad. 

Take one mediumrsized red apple, preferably a tart, eating 
apple. Polish and cut in cubes. Add one cupful of chopped 
celery. Celery should be cut in pieces an eighth of an inch 
in length. Add to the apple one teaspoonful of granulated 
sugar. Pour over two-thirds of a cupful of sour cream salad 
dressing, and serve on lettuce leaf. Garnish with parsley or 
the white leaves of the celery. This salad is also very at- 
tractive when garnished with shredded nuts. If desired, add 
one-half cupful of broken nut meats and one-quarter cupful 
chopped dates to the salad, in which case add one cupful of 
sour cream dressing. 

Tomato Salad. 

Take one large, firm, ripe, tomato, peel and cut in cubes 
one-half inch square. Add to the tomato one-half cupful of 
chopped celery, one-half cupful of chopped cabbage and one- 
half cupful of grated carrots. Pour' over one and one-half 
cupfuls of sour cream dressing, mix together well and serve 
on lettuce leaf. 



Salads 183 

Summer Salad. 

Take one-half cupful of celery, one cupful of tomatoes cut 
in cubes, one-half cupful of cooked beets cut in cubes, one 
small minced onion, one-half cupful of peas. Mix together 
and add one-half cupful of olive oil or mayonnaise salad 
dressing. Garnish with parsley or the halves of English 
walnuts. 

Tomato Nut Salad. 

Take one pint of ripe red tomatoes cut in cubes and one- 
third of a pint of broken English walnut meats. If the toma- 
toes are very juicy allow the juice to drain off. Use sour 
cream, or boiled mayonnaise dressing for this salad. Serve on a 
lettuce leaf and garnish with parsley. 

Cabbage Salad. 

Take one small head of cabbage, put in ice water to crisp. 
When crisp chop with a hand vegetable chopper. Mask with a 
boiled salad dressing and serve plain or in tomato cups. 

Tomato Floweret. 

Use one tomato for each serving. The tomatoes must be 
smooth and medium-sized. Dip the tomatoes into boiling 
water for five seconds, then plunge into cold water; this will 
loosen the peel and keep them firm. Peel and cut out the 
core in stem end. With a sharp knife divide the tomato into 
eight sections allowing the sections to remain joined together 
at blossom end or base. Place on a crisp lettuce leaf and mask 
with mayonnaise or sour cream dressing. Garnish with 
sprigs of parsley. 

Celery Pea Salad. 

Take one cupful of celery cut in one-eighth inch lengths, 
and two-thirds of a cupful of cooked peas. Add either 



184 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

ihree-fourths cupful of boiled or mayonnaise dressing. Either 
nuts or tomatoes, or both may be used in this salad with good 
effect 

Celery Nut Salad. 
Take one cupful of celery cut in one-eighth inch lengths and 
one cupful of English walnut or pecan meats. Mask with 
mayonnaise or boiled dressing. Garnish with parsley or 
small cubes of ripe tomatoes. 

Cucumber Salad. 
See that the cucumbers are fresh and crisp. Stale, wilted 
cuctmibers are unwholesome. Peel the cucumbers, cut in 
quarters, and then slice. To each cupful of sliced cucumber 
add two small green onions, including tops if they are not 
wilted. Mask with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

Green Onion Salad. 
Cut in short lengths, including a portion of the tops, enough 
fresh green onions to make one cupful, cut into small cubes 
one tart red apple, — polish apple, but do not pare. Blend the 
onion and apple and mask with a slightly sweetened mayon- 
naise dressing. Squeeze a little lemon juice over the apple 
if it is cubed before the salad is mixed, this will prevent dis- 
coloration. 

Cauliflower Bouquet. 
Separate the flowerets of a crisp head of cauliflower, wash 
them carefully and cook in kettle, or steamer, for twenty 
minutes. Remove, drain the water off and chill. Arrange 
the flowerets on crisp lettuce in some artistic design, mask 
with mayonnaise or a boiled dressing and garnish with parsley. 

Cauliflower Comment. 
Separate a crisp white head of cauliflower into flowerets, 
wash them thoroughly, tie in cheesecloth and cook them in 



SaMs 185 

salted boiling water twenty minutes. Remove and chill, 
Arrange six of the flowerets in a circle on a crisp lettuce 
leaf on each salad plate, between them place sections 
of a tomato cut lengthwise. If tomatoes are small cut in 
quarters, but if large divide into eighths. Mask with mayon- 
naise or sour cream dressing and garnish with nuts. 

Miscellaneous Salads. 

It is not essential to adhere to every detail given in a salad 
recipe. The proportions of ingredients may vary, or for a plain 
salad any, or a number of vegetables that may be available, will 
combine to make an excellent salad ; hence the housewife may, 
with a little originality, construct many unique and attractive 
salads. 

Meat Salads. 

This is one of the most desirable ways of utilizing left- 
over cold fowl, beef, mutton, or fish. During the hot months 
a meat salad is preferable, and sometimes more inviting than 
the hot meats. The number of meat salads which can be pro- 
duced by various combinations of meats and vegetables, with 
various dressings, can only be limited by ones originality and 
imagination. No fast and set rules are required in the 
manufacturing of a meat, vegetable, or fruit salad; hence, 
many women find it a pleasure to attempt new combinations* 

Chicken Salad. 

Shred, or cut in cubes, enough stewed or roast chicken to 
equal one pint. Blend with the meat one cupful of tender 
crisp celery cut in short lengths, and one small minced onion. 
Mask with boiled or a mayonnaise dressing. Cooked cauli- 
flower cut in small cubes or minced lettuce may be substi- 
tuted for celery. Turkey or the meat of any fowl may be 
substituted for chicken. 



186 The Practical Hygtenic Preparation of Poods 

Oyster Salad. 

Heat one pint of small oysters in their own liquor until they 
are plump and the gills are curled, drain and turn into a bowl. 
Pour over them three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and place 
bowl in cold water or crushed ice to chill. Cut one pint of 
crisp, tender celery in short lengths. Drain the liquor that has 
collected from the oysters, blend them with the celery, and 
mask with mayonnaise or boiled dressing. Garnish with 
shredded nuts. 

Lobster or Shrimp Salad. 

Shred one cupful of lobster meat or shrimps, cut enough 
celery in short lengths to equal one pint, and mince one small 
head of lettuce. Blend the meat with the celery and lettuce, 
and mask with mayonnaise or boiled salad dressing. Garnish 
with minced parsley. 

Salmon Salad. 

Drain the liquid from a can of salmon, carefully break 
enough of the meat in small pieces to equal one cupful, and 
blend with one pint of minced cabbage, celery or cooked 
cauliflower. Mask with mayonnaise or French dressing. 

Sweetbread Salad. 

Gx>k the sweetbreads as directed on page 104. Cut them 
in small cubes and blend with an equal part of minced let- 
tuce. Mask with a French or mayonnaise dressing. 

Ox Tongue Salad. 

Wash the tongue very thoroughly and steam or boil it for 
two hours, or until it is tender. Remove from stove and 
scrape off the heavy white skin. Chill and cut in small cubes 
enough to equal one cupful. Mince one large onion, and 
slice one medium-sized boiled Irish potato. Blend the three 



Salads 187 

and mask with the boiled dressing. One minced pimento, or 
one minced red mango will add to the flavor and appearance 
of this salad. 

Egg Salad. 

Boil the eggs twenty minutes, then plunge into cold water; 
when cold remove the shell, cut the egg into quarters length- 
wise. Arrange at right angles with the four points touching, 
and place a quarter or eighth of a ripe tomato cut lengthwise 
between each quarter. Serve on lettuce leaf and mask with 
mayonnaise dressing, dropping it in the center. 

Daisy Salad. 

Allow one-half egg for each person. Boil the eggs twenty 
minutes then plunge into cold water and allow to cool. Re- 
move the shell and cut the egg in two crosswise. Take out 
the yolks and mash them to a paste, season with salt and 
lemon juice. Form small centers on lettuce leaves out of the 
yolks, cut the halves of the whites into quarter-inch sections 
lengthwise and arrange in a circle roimd the yolk at even 
intervals in the shape of a daisy. To each serving add one 
teaspoonful of French dressing. 



CHAPTER XXffl. 

NUTS, NUT PREPARATIONS* NUT BUTTERS. 



NUTS are among the best protein food products provided 
by nature for man. They are, without doubt, one of 
the purest and cleanest of foods, since nature has stowed the 
kernel away so carefully in a closed shell. 

Nature has completed in her perfect way all the necessary 
processes to make them ready for food. 

Nuts are looked upon by many as an unwholesome food, be- 
cause of the general supposition that they are extremely 
difficult of digestion, which however, is an erroneous idea. 
Experiments and investigations have proven that their tmwhole* 
someness is the result of the time and the manner in which they 
are eaten, rather than the character of the nuts. Nuts, used as 
a luxury, eaten at the close of a full meal, or eaten before re- 
tiring, or insufficiently masticated, are almost certain to cause 
trouble owing to their highly concentrated character. They 
should be eaten as a part of the meal proper and used in 
moderation, as is necessary with all concentrated foods. Then, 
if thoroughly masticated, most people will digest them with- 
out difficulty. 

Probably the most satisfactory method of preparing nuts 
is to pulverize them, or grind them into a butter. After 
such a process they are readily dissolved. The general idea 
is that there is some secret process connected with the manu- 
facturing of nut butters. The manufacturer seeks to con- 
vey this impression, and as a result charges exorbitant prices 
for his product. The most wholesome and purest of nut 
butters can be prepared in the home with a minimum cost 

188 



Nuts, Nut Preparations, Nut Butter 189 

of time and labor. Run nuts through any of the vegetable 
choppers that have a nut butter knife, and the product is 
the highest quality of nut butter. It may be necessary to 
put it through some mills twice, but usually one grinding is 
sufficient to pulverize the nuts and extract enough oil to 
make the butter of the proper consistency, or a little butter 
or olive oil may be blended with the ground nuts. 

One pound of nuts is equal to three pounds of the best meat 
in nutritious qualities, and, combined with other foods, as in 
meat substitutes and meat imitations, they take the place of 
meat in every particular, and many times excel some meat in 
regard to purity and cleanliness. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

PIES. 



CUSTOM has so tboroughly established the usage of pie, 
that many seem to think the dinner menu incomplete 
without it ; theref ore, the author will devote a few pages to the 
subject. Not however, that pie is of paramount importance ; for, 
indeed, it is not at all essential or necessary to good livmg. In 
fact pies as universally made, and eaten after a full meal of 
other foods, are an enemy to digestion and a source of much 
ill-health. 

The suggesticHis oflFered here will assist the housewife to pre- 
pare pies of a more wholesome character, if she deems them 
necessary to the menu. 

It is, indeed, gratifying to know that many women are de- 
parting from the old-established, needless, ridiculous habit of 
inventing all sorts of greasy, indigestible pastries and combin- 
ing with them excessively sweetened, over-cooked fruits in 
the form of pies and puddings, but are serving the fruits plain ; 
the most simple, economical, healthful, and delicious way they 
can be eaten. 

Pie Crust. 

Lard should not enter into the composition of pie crust. The 
more hygienic shortening, vegetable fats, will render the crust 
more delicate and wholesome. 

The following method of baking the crusts before the filling 
is added will prove to be a very unique and satisfactory way 
of making many double crust pies, as it allows the crusts to 
remain dry and flaky. Whereas, when the filling is baked in 

190 



Pies 191 

the crust, the lower crust is solid and yields with greater 
difficulty to digestion. 

How to Make a Double Crust. 
Roll out crust and cover pie tin in ordinary way, prick 
with fork. Fold and lay in the crust a piece of clean white 
cloth. This will support upper crust. (The cloth will not 
burn nor adhere to crusts, and will absorb a large quantity 
of the shortening, which is desirable.) Cover with upper 
crust in ordinary manner, trim. Bake in moderately hot oven. 
On removing from oven, gently loosen and remove upper 
crust, remove cloth. Set crust away and fill when wanting 
to use. 

By this method there is no possible danger of the pie burst- 
ing, running out and losing a portion of the contents, which 
is a source of much annoyance and displeasure to the house- 
wife. If the crust is not allowed to bake too brown, the 
pie is moderately wholesome. 

Graham Flour Pie Paste. 

Take one cupful of graham flour (bran sifted out), and one 
even teaspoonful of salt. Moisten with cold sweet cream. 
Have flour and mixing bowl as cold as possible. Mix as^ 
lightly and quickly as possible. Have very stiff dough. Roll 
out quickly and line pie tin, if to be baked before filling is 
added, and put in rather hot oven. The lightness and crisp- 
ness of the crust depends upon its coldness and upon the dis- 
patch with which it is put together. If it cannot be baked 
immediately, place into refrigerator until ready to bake. 

Plain Pie Paste. 

Take one cupftd of white flour (sifted once), add one-fourth 
cupful of a good vegetable fat or butter, and one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Work shortening through the flour, and add two 



192 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

tablespoonfuls of ice cold water. Mix lightly, roll to one- 
eighth inch in thickness. 

Pu£F Paste. 

Take two cupfuls of white flour (sifted once), add one 
even teaspoonf ul of baking powder, and one even teaspoonf ul 
of salt. Mix. Add one-half cupful of butter or vegetable fat 
and work through flour thoroughly. Add four tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, and mix lightly. Roll to one-eighth inch in thick- 
ness. Always keep ddugh cold as possible before baking. This 
amount is sufiicient to make two crusts. 

Apple Custard Pie. 

Make pie crust over any recipe desired, and bake. Put 
sweetened apple sauce to depth of one-fourth inch in the crust, 
then fill with boiled custard. Cover with a meringue, and place 
in hot oven until a delicate brown. 

Apple Cream Pie. 

Make double crust as directed and bake before filling is 
added. Take one pint of sliced apples — ^use mellow tart apples 
— add two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar and one cupful of 
sweet whipped cream. Mix through apples. Fill the bottom 
crust, and place upper crust on top. Prepare just before want- 
ing to serve or apples will become discolored. This may be pre- 
vented, however, by adding a little lemon juice to the apples. 

Plain Apple Pie. 

Make enough plain pie paste for two crusts. Line a deep 
pie pan with half the paste. Fill the pan with sliced, tart 
apples, add sugar according to the amount and tartness of the 
apples. Roll out the top crust and perforate it with a knife or 
spoon. Moisten the edges of the lower crust with water, and 
place the upper crust on, press it firmly around the edge, and 



Pies 193 

trim off the pie paste over-hanging the side of the pan. Decor- 
ate edge of crust in any desirable manner. Bake in moderate 
oven twenty-five minutes, or until the crust is delicately 
browned and the apples are baked. 

Strawberry Pie. 
Take one quart of berries, wash and cut in halves or quarters, 
Add sugar, and allow to stand one hour, so that the sugar may 
permeate the fruit. Previously bake a double crust, fill the 
bottom crust with the berries, and put top crust on. Single 
crust may be used and top covered with whipped cream if 
preferred. 

Berry and Chei.7 Pies. 

Make enough plain paste for two crusts. Roll out one-half 
the paste, line a deep pie tin, and fill with the kind of berries 
or cherries desired. Add sugar according to tartness of berries 
and the amount used. Dust a little flour over the berries to 
create a thick joice. Roll out the upper crust; decorate, and per- 
forate it to allow the steam to escape from the pie to prevent it 
bursting. Moisten the edges of the lower crust with water, put 
on top crust, press the edges firmly together, then trim off 
the dough overhanging the sides of the pan. Roll the edges, 
put into moderately heated oven and bake until crusts are 
brown. 

Peach Pie. 

Bake over recipe for plain apple pie. See page 192. 

Custard Pie. 

Make plain paste, roll out and line a deep pie tin. To 
three beaten eggs, add one pint of rich milk, one-third cupful 
of sugar, one even teaspoonful of extract and a dash of 
nutmeg. Stir thoroughly to dissolve the sugar, and pour 



194 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

the raw custard into the paste. Bake in very slow oven 
until eggs are just set. Too fast or too long baking will make 
the custard watery. 

Pumpkin Custard Pie. 

Make plain paste, roll out, and line a pie tin. For the 
'custard, use one cupful of cooked pumpkin, one cupful of 
milk, two beaten eggs, one-half cupful of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, one-half teaspoonful of allspice; blend 
these ingredients, pour the custard into the crust and bake 
in slow oven until the custard thickens. If baked too long 
or too fast the custard will be watery. 

To cook the pumpkin, peel it and remove the fiber and seeds, 
cut in cubes. Put it over the fire in a kettle, with a little water 
added, and cook in covered kettle until tender. Then remove 
the lid, stir the pumpkin frequently and cook until enough of 
the water is evaporated that the pumpkin is stiff. Press the 
pumpkin through a sieve. 

Plain Pumpkin Pie. 

Cook pumpkin as directed in recipe for pumpkin custard 
pie. For the filling, use one cupful of pumpkin, one cupful 
of milk, one-half cupful of sugar, one egg, one rounding 
tablespoonful of flour, one-half teaspoonful each of allspice 
and cinnamon. Stir the flour and spices through the pumpkin, 
then add the milk, sugar and beaten egg. Line a pie pan 
with plain paste, pour the filling in, and bake in a slow oven. 

Boiled Custard Pies with Fruit. 

Use previously baked crusts for all boiled custard pies. 
For custard take one pint of milk, heat it to the scalding point 
in the double boiler, and sweeten with one-half cupful of sugar. 
Beat two eggs in a bowl and blend with the eggs one rounding 
tablespoonful of cornstarch. Add the scalding milk gradu- 



Pies 195 

ally to the beaten eggs, stirring constantly, then return mixture 
to the double boiler, and cook until it thickens. Flavor with one 
teaspoonful of extract. Put the kind of fruit desired to the 
depth of one-half inch in a baked pie crust, pour the cooked 
custard over and cover with a meringue. 

The following fruits are desirable to use : apple sauce, sliced, 
canned, raw, or cooked evaporated peaches, canned, stewed 
or evaporated apricots, stewed pineapple, sliced oranges, sliced 
bananas, pitted dates, stewed minced figs. 

To Make Meringue. 

. Beat the whites of two eggs until very stiff, then gradually 
add two heaping tablespoon fuls of granulated sugar and beat 
two minutes longer. Use dover egg beater. Uge any flavor- 
ing preferred. This amount is enough for one large pie. 
Bake and brown the meringue in a hot oven ; if baked too slow- 
ly it shrinks and becomes tough. , 

Lemon Custard Pie. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, add to them two rounding 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch and dissolve. Then add one and 
one-half cupfuls of warm (not hot) water, the juice and a 
little of the grated rind of one lemon, and from one-half to 
three-fourths of a cupful of sugar. Stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved, turn into the double boiler and cook until it thickens. 
Stir frequently to prevent the cornstarch settling. Pour into 
a baked pie crust, cover with a meringue and brown in the oven. 

Orange Pie. 

Put one-half cupful of sugar and two rounding tablespoon- 
fuls of cornstarch in the upper vessel of double boiler and blend 
well. Add to this one pint of orange juice and the beaten 
yolks of two eggs. Cook in double boiler until it thickens. 
If oranges are very tart more sugar will be required, or part 



196 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

water may be used. Pour into a baked pie crust, and cover 
with a meringue made of the whites of the eggs which were 
used for the custard. Put into oven to brown. 

Grape Fruit Pie, 

Blend three-fourths cupful of sugar and two rounding 
tablespoonfuls of cornstarch in upper vessel of double boiler. 
Add the juice of one medium-sized tart grape fruit, then beat 
in the yolks of two eggs after which stir in one cupful and a 
quarter of hot water. Cook in double boiler until mixture 
thickens. Pour into baked pie crust, cover with a meringue 
made from the whites of the eggs which were used for the 
filling. 

Mince Pie. 

Line a pie tin with a plain pie paste, fill to the depth of 
one-half inch or more with mince meat, roll out upper crust, 
perforate it to permit steam to escape, moisten rim of lower 
crust, put the upper crust on, press the edges firmly together, 
trim off the paste overhanging the sides of the pan, roll the 
edge and bake in moderate oven until the crust is delicately 
browned. 

Mince Meat. 

One quart of lean beef, one quart of condensed cider, two 
quarts of apples, one cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of suet, one 
pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one-half cupful of 
citron, one-half teaspoonful each of ground cloves, nutmeg, 
allspice, and two teaspoon fuls of cinnamon. Cook the meat 
in a covered vessel slowly until it is very tender; then chill 
and cut it in small cubes. Reduce two quarts of cider down 
to one by boiling. Pare and cut in cubes, two quarts of mel- 
low, tart apples. Wash the currants and raisins and mince the 
citron. Blend all the ingredients, put into jars with tight fit- 



ri 



Pies 197 

ting lids and set in a cool place. Use as occasion demands. 
This mince meat will keep three weeks. If the mince meat is 
not acid enough, add cider vinegar until the desired tartness is 
produced. ' 



CHAPTER XXV, 

SCIENTIFIC CAKE BAKING. 



SCIENTIFIC cake baking means three things. First, the 
methods must be based on scientific principles which 
will insure success at all times — -a system by which any 
woman or child can, if instructions and recipes are obeyed, 
bake a H^t, delicate, tender, wholesome cake. Second, the 
various ingredients are so proportioned as to make the chemis- 
try and food composition of the cake correct, so that it is 
not a source of indigestion and disease. Third, the oven 
must be regulated in accordance with the laws of heat. 

The following rules should be observed. The right kind of 
materials must be used. They must be correctly combined. 
Use good winter wheat or pastry flour. To use spring wl^at 
flour means "failures." Use granulated cane (not beet) 
sugar. Vegetable fat may be substituted for butter. It will pro- 
duce the same results. When using vegetable fats add one even 
teaspoonful of salt. Use graduated measuring cup and spoon 
for measuring ingredients. They cost but a trifle and are 
indispensable to good baking. 

Regulating the Oven. 

Put all loaf cakes into a cold oven when a gas or gasoline 
stove is used. Light the fire when putting cake into the oven, 
and regulate the flame so that a low baking heat will be pro- 
duced in twenty-five minutes. Bake the cake slowly for 
thirty-five minutes. The whole process of raising and baking 
the cake should cover about sixty minutes for butter cakes 
and forty-five minutes for angel food and sunshine cakes. 

198 



Scientific Cake Baking 199 

Avoid having too hot an oven. Many poor cakes are the 
result of too much heat. On the other hand if the heat of 
the oven is so low that the baking requires much more time 
than stated above, the cake will be rough and course. 

The ovens of all standard makes of stoves are easily regu- 
lated; hence, burned or poorly baked cakes and pastries are 
an evidence of carelessness and a lack of judgment. 

Layer Cakes. 

For layer cake have the oven very warm, place cake in 
and begin to increase the heat; have the oven baking hot in 
about ten minutes after the cake enters. Time for raising and 
baking, each ten minutes. Total twenty minutes. Thick layers 
will take longer. 

Why Failures Occur. 

Too much shortening makes a cake coarse, rich and sad. 
One-half cupful of shortening is sufficient for from two and 
one-half to three cupfuls of flour. More than this may cause 
failures. 

Too much sugar will make a cake rough and will cause it 
to settle. 

If the batter is too thin, the cake will be coarse and may fall 
just before or immediately after it is removed from the oven. 
Hard wheat flour makes cakes dry and rough. 

If the flour is so soft that the given amount of flour in the 
recipe does not make the batter quite stiff enough add a little 
more flour. 

Too much baking powder makes a cake rough. 

Too much heat makes them solid. Too little heat makes 
them coarse. 

If the instructions and recipes here given are followed, cake 
baking is a simple task and failures are impossible. 



200 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Angel Food Cake. 

Take whites of eight or nine eggs, one and one-fourth cup- 
fuls of granulated cane sugar, one cupful flour, one teaspoon ful 
of salt, two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice or one-half teaspoonful 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of liquid extract. Use all 
stroked measurements. 

First separate the whites from the yolks. Add salt to 
whites and beat to a foam, then add the cream of tartar, 
and whip until stiff enough to stand. If lemon juice is used, 
add it at short intervals, one-half teaspoonful at a time. Sift 
sugar once, then sprinkle it over whites and fold in until all 
is dissolved. Sift flour four times, then measure ; add flour to 
whites and fold in lightly. Do not fold in longer than to 
dissolve the flour. Unnecessary stirring toughens the cake. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Seven fresh eggs, one even teaspoonful of salt, one cupful of 
flour, one cupful granulated cane sugar, two teaspoonfids of 
lemon juice or one-half teaspoonful cream of tartar (lemon 
juice preferred), one-half teaspoonful of powdered flavoring 
extract or one teaspoonful of liquid extract. 

Separate the eggs, add salt to whites, and beat them to a 
foam; then add lemon juice, a half teaspoonful at a time, at 
short intervals, and continue whipping whites until they are 
stiff. If cream of tartar is used, add it after whites are 
whipped to a foam. Sift sugar once, add to whites, and fold 
in until dissolved. Then beat yolks stiff. (A Dover egg- 
beater can be used in beating the yolks, but should never be 
used to beat the whites.) Add yolks to whites and fold them 
through. Sift flour five times, measure, add it to eggs, and 
fold in lightly. Bake in ungreased cake pan. 



Scientific Cake Baking 201 

Hygienic Sponge Cake. 

Take three eggs, one and one-quarter cupfuls of granulated 
cane sugar, two cupfuls of flour, one-half cupful of warm 
water, three even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one teaspoonful of flavoring extract. 

Beat the eggs light, sift sugar once, add it to eggs, and 
beat five minutes. Sift flour three times, measure, add baking 
powder, sift once more, add half of it to eggs and sugar, and 
beat one minute more, add water, and stir lightly. Add re- 
mainder of the flour and stir briskly. Put into pan and bake. 
Is excellent baked in a sheet and cut in squares. 

Aunt Katharine's Sponge Cake. 

Take three eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, 
four tablespoonfuls of cold water, two even teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one quarter teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of flavoring. 

Break eggs into mixing bowl, add sugar and water, beat 
until very light. Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder 
and sift through. Add salt, flavoring, and flour to mixture 
in bowl. Stir until smooth, put into pan. Bake in layers 
or loaf. 

Nut Sponge Cake. 

Use recipe for "Hygienic Sponge Cake." Before putting 
batter into pan, fold in one cupful of grated nut meats. 

Fairy Loaf. 

Yolks of eight eggs, one-half cupful of butter, one and 
one-fourth cupfuls of granulated cane sugar, two and three- 
fourths cupfuls of flour, one cupful of sweet milk or water, 
three even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful 
of flavoring. 



202 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, beat yolks of eggs 
very stiff with Dover egg-beater. Add beaten yolks to 
creamed butter and sugar and stir through until smooth. 
Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder, sift again. Add 
milk and flour to creamed butter and sugar, stir until batter 
is smooth. Bake in loaf. 

Golden Layer Cake. 

Use "Fairy Loaf Cake" recipe, but use only two and one- 
half cupfuls of flour. It will require ten minutes at low heat 
and ten minutes with baking heat to bake the layers. 

Royal Loaf Cake. 

One and one-fourth cupfuls of granulated sugar, one-half 
cupful butter, four eggs, three-fourths cupful of sweet milk, 
two and one-half cupfuls of flour, three even teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one teaspoonful of flavoring extract. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Separate whites from 
yolks of eggs, beat yolks thoroughly, add to sug^r and butter, 
and stir through thoroughly. Sift flour once, measure, add 
baking powder, sift again. Add milk, flour, and stiffly-beaten 
whites (in order given) to the creamed butter and sugar, 
and stir batter until smooth. Bake in loaf. 

Brazil Nut Cake« 

Use the "Royal Loaf Cake" recipe, and add to the batter one 
cupful of grated Brazil nut meats. Any other nuts may be 
used if desired. 

Economy Gold Cake. 

Three eggs, one and one-fourth cupfuls of granulated cane 
sugar, one cupful of water, two and three-fourths cupfuls of 
flour, one-half cupful butter, three even teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful of flavoring. 

Put together as "Royal Loaf Cake." (See recipe above.) 



Scientific Cake Baking 203 

Silver Loaf. 

Whites of seven eggs, one and one-fourth cupfuls of granu- 
lated sugar, one-half cupful of butter, two-thirds cupful of 
sweet milk, two and two-thirds cupfuls of flour, three even tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of flavoring ex- 
tract. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Sift flour, measure, 
add baking powder, sift again. Beat whites until stiff. Add 
extract, milk, flour, and whites of eggs to creamed butter and 
sugar, stir until batter is smooth. Bake in loaf. 

Silver Fig Layer Cake. 

Use the "Silver Loaf Cake" recipe; bake in layers. Put 
cake together with ground figs. 

Bride's Cake. 

Whites of eight eggs, three cupfuls of flour, three-fourths 
cupful of sweet milk, one and one-fourth cupfuls of sugar, one- 
half cupful of butter, three- even teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one teaspoonful of extract. 

Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Sift flour once, 
measure, add baking powder, sift again. Whip whites of eggs 
very stiff. Add extract, milk, flour, and stir thoroughly. 
Add beaten whites of eggs, stir until batter is smooth. Bake 
in loaf. 

Orange Chocolate Cake. 

Four eggs, two and three-quarters cupfuls of flour, one and 
one-quarter cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of sweet milk, three 
even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-half cupful of butter, 
one heaping teaspoonful of grated orange peel, two squares of 
bitter chocolate. 

Cream butter and sugar. Sift flour once, measure, add 
baking powder, sift again. Whip eggs until light, add milk, 



204 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

eggs, and flour to creamed butter and sugar, stir batter until 
smooth, divide into equal parts. To one part add the choco- 
late melted, to the other add the grated orange peel. Bake 
in layers. Put together with pitted chopped dates. 

Chocolate Cake. 

(Devil's Food). — Four eggs, one-half cupful of butter, one 
cupful of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, three even 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, four squares of bitter choco- 
late, one and one-fourth cupfuls of granulated sugar. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Sift flour once, add baking pow- 
der, sift again. Whip the eggs until light, add milk, flour, and 
beaten eggs to the creamed butter and sugar, stir until smooth. 
Melt the chocolate, stir into batter. Bake in loaf or layers. 

Crumb Cake. 

(No eggs.) — Three cupfuls of flour, three even teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one and one-half cupfuls of dark brown 
sugar, one-half cupful of butter, one cupful of sweet milk, 
five heaping teaspoonfuls of cocoa. 

Put sifted flour into the mixing bowl, add baking powder, 
sugar, and cocoa, mix thoroughly, then add butter and work 
through as for pie paste. Add milk and stir to a smooth bat- 
ter. Bake in loaf in slow oven. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two cupfuls of sifted flour, one-half cupful of butter 
one-half cupful of milk, two eggs, three-fourths cup- 
ful of grated chocolate, three even teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful of extract. 

Cream the shortening and sugar thoroughly, then break in 
the eggs and beat the mixture until light. Add the milk, one- 
half the flour and the extract and mix until the batter is 
smooth, then add the remainder of the flour in which the 



Scientific Cake Baking 205 

baking powder has been sifted, and beat until the batter is 
smooth. Bake as directed on page 198. 

Pound Cake. 

Ten eggs, one pound or two cupfuls of sugar, one pound or 
four cupfuls of sifted flour, three-fourths pound or one and 
one-half cupfuls of butter, two teaspoonfuls of lemon extract 
and one teaspoonful of salt. 

Cream the butter and sugar thoroughly. Separate the eggs 
and beat the whites and the yolks separately. Add alternately 
one heaping tablespoonful of the flour and a small portion of 
the beaten yolk and white and beat the batter thoroughly 
between each addition of flour and egg. The success of 
pound cake depends upon the beating of the batter and the 
baking. Start in cold or only moderately warm oven and 
bake for one hour and thirty minutes. 

Spice Cake. 

Four eggs, one-half cupful of butter, one and one-four cup- 
fuls of sugar, one cupful of sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, 
three even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of allspice. Cream the butter and sugar. Sift flour once, 
measure, add baking powder, sift again. Whip eggs until light. 
Add milk, eggs, flour, and spices to creamed butter and sugar. 
Stir imtil batter is smooth. Bake in loaf or layers. 

Fruit Cake. 

Three cupfuls of flour, four heaping teaspoonfuls of cocoa, 
three even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one-half cupful of 
butter, one and one-fourth cupfuls of dark brown sugar, one 
cupful of sweet milk, one cupful of seeded raisins, one cupful 
of currants, one cupful of citron. 



206 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Put flour into mixing bowl, add baking powder, cocoa, and 
sugar. Mix thoroughly, add butter, and woric through until 
smooth. Add milk, and stir batter until smooth, then add fruit 
dusted with flour, and mix through batter. Bake in slow 
oven for one hour and thirty minutes. 

Nut Fruit Cake. 

Make over recipe for plain "Fruit Cake." In addition, add 
one cupful more of raisins, one and one-half cupfuls of chopped 
nut meats. Omit citron. Sprinkle top with nuts and raisins be- 
fore baking. Bake in slow oven. 

Royal Fruit Cake. 

Six cupfuls of entire-wheat bread crumbs, two cupfuls of 
ground dates, one cupful of grated nut meats, one-half cupful 
of olive oil or butter. 

Run bread, dates, and nuts through food chopper, add butter 
or oil, mix all together, then press into loaf one inch in thick- 
ness. Do not bake. Cut in thin slices. This is a most de- 
licious and wholesome cake. 

Royal Fruit Cake, No. 2. 

Nine cupfuls of entire-wheat bread crumbs, one cupful of 
ground dates, one cupful of ground figs, one cupful of ground 
raisins, one and one-half cupfuls of ground nuts, one-fourth 
cupful of sugar. 

Run bread, dates, figs, raisins, and nuts through food chop- 
per, add sugar, mix thoroughly, press into loaf. Cut in 
small, thin slices. Most delicious and wholesome. (Laxa- 
tive.) 

Royal Fruit Cookies. 

One-third cupful of butter, one and one-half cupfuls of 
sugar, two eggs, four cupfuls of sifted flour, three even tea- 



Scientific Cake Baking 207 

spoonfuls of baking powder, one cupful of raisins, one cupful 
of currants, four tablespoonfuls of sweet milk. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk and beat for three 
minutes, add beaten eggs, and beat again for three minutes. 
Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder, sift again. Add 
flour to other ingredients, and knead to a stiff dough, add 
fruit, work through. Roll out into thin sheet. Cut, place 
in pan. Bake in moderately hot oven. 

Sunshine Cookies. 

Four cupfuls of sifted flour, three even teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, four tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, two eggs, one 
and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one-third cupful of butter, one 
teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. 

Mix butter and sugar, add milk, beat well, add beaten eggs, 
and beat for five minutes. Sift flour once, measure, add bak- 
ing powder, sift again. Add flour and grated lemon rind to 
other ingredients. Knead to a stiff dough. Roll into thin 
sheet, cut, place in pan. Bake in moderately hot oven. 

Nut Cookies. 

Use "Sunshine Cookie'' recipe. Add to the dough one and 
one-half cupfuls of grated nut meats and work through before 
rolling out dough. 

Rolled Oat Drops. 

Three cupfuls of rolled oats, two cupfuls of flour, one and 
one-half cupfuls of brown sugar, three-fourths cupful of 
butter, one-third cupful of sweet milk, four even teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, two eggs, three heaping teaspoonfuls of 
cocoa, one pint of seeded raisins. 

Put flour, rolled oats, baking powder, and sugar into mixing 
bowl. Mix thoroughly, add butter, and work through. Then 



208 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

add milk, beaten eggs, and fruit, mix into batter. Drop in 
small pieces on pan. Bake in moderately hot oven. 

Macaroons. 

Beat the whites of two eggs until stiff, add gradually one 
cupful of sugar and beat until sugar is dissolved. Place the 
pan containing the whites and sugar over a kettle containing 
boiling water and steam until a heavy coating forms on the 
sides and bottom of pan. Stir slowly but constantly while 
the mixture is steaming. Dissolve two even tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch in one teaspoonful of water and the beaten white 
of another egg. Add this to the steamed whites together with 
two cupfuls of shredded cocoanut or one cupful of shredded 
nuts. Mix, drop in small spoonfuls on a well greased pan 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

The macaroons take the name of the nuts used. 

CAKE ICINGS. 

Cake icings are not essential to the appearance nor to the 
taste of a properly made and baked cake. Because of the 
amount of sugar used, it renders a cake over-sweet and some- 
times unwholesome. The author advises against the use of 
icings except when a cake is to be placed on the table whole, 
or when the cake itself is not over sweet. Since icings are 
employed principally to give added attractiveness to the cake, 
the housewfe should familiarize herself with thjose icings 
which will produce the best appearance and are the most deli- 
cate. In these qualities the following recipe holds precedence 
to all others. 

Steamed Icing. 

The whites of four eggs, two cupfuls of granulated sugar, 
three-fourths cupful of water. Boil the sugar and water until 
it spins a long thread, or until it forms a hard ball when 



Scientific Cake Baking 209 

dropped into cold water. While the sugar is boiling beat 
the whites of the eggs until they are stiff enough to stand, 
beat the boiling wax slowly into the whites of the eggs, then 
place the pan containing the icing, which should be broad and 
have a heavy rim at the top, into another vessel containing 
boiling water, and of a size to allow the rim of the inner ves- 
sel to rest on the rim of the outside vessel. A savory double- 
boiler is an ideal utensil for this purpose and it can be pur- 
chased at any good hardware store. Place the vessel over 
the fire and keep the water boiling rapidly. Stir the icing 
slowly but constantly, and steam until a heavy coating forms 
on the sides and the bottom of the pan and icing is stiff enough 
to stand. The time required will depend on how stiff the 
wax is boiled and how rapidly the water is kept boiling, 
Spread on cake with broad knife while hot. This icing when 
properly made can be used in paper tubes for all floral decora- 
tions. It will remain soft and moist indefinitely. 

Cold Icing. 

Take XXXX confectionery sugar, moisten it with water, 
cream or milk and beat it to a white, smooth, creamy mass, 
using the amount of sugar necessary to make it the proper 
consistency. This icing will remain soft and moist like cara- 
mel. 

Cold Icing. 

The whites of two eggs, three cupfuls of XXXX confec- 
tionery sugar. Beat the whites stiff, add the sugar gradually 
and beat until a smooth, stiff icing is produced. Use a 
wooden spoon for mixing and beating it. This icing can be 
used in tubes for decorations if made stiff enough to hold in 
shape. This icing will become very hard upon standing. 



210 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Chocolate Icing. 

Mdt two squares of bitter chocolate with one-half cupful 
of milk or water in double-boiler. Allow to cool and beat in 
enough XXXX confectionery sugar to make it the proper con- 
sistency to spread. 

Lemon Icing. 

Take the juice of the lemon (three tablespoonfuls), and the 
yolk of one egg, stir and beat in enough XXXX confectionery 
sugar to make it the proper consistency to spread. 

Fruit Icing. 

Use any fruit juice desired and add enough XXXX con- 
fectionery sugar to make the icing of the consistency to spread 
well. Beat the icing thoroughly and add the sugar slowly. 



} 



CHAPTER XXVIL 

DESSERTS. 



CUSTOM and long established habits have led us to con- 
sider a meal quite incomplete without some form of 
dessert, and too often foods of a deleterious character are 
served in this capacity. 

The author has been very careful in compiling the following 
recipes to discriminate between the wholesome and unwhole- 
some and to give recipes, appropriate, healthful and ofttimes 
medicinal. 

"Desserts as usually served are but a 'snare and delusion' to 
the digestive organs. Compounded of substances 'rich' in 
fat, sweets and spices, and served after a full meal has been 
eaten, they offer a great temptation to overeat ; while the ele- 
ments of which they are largely composed, serve to hamper 
the digestive organs, to clog the liver, and to work mischief 
generally." 

Why women will persist in wasting time on a thing that could 
be dispensed with so advantageously to health and labor is 
difficult to understand. 

Nature has abundantly supplied us with healthful fruits 
which require very little expenditure of strength or time in 
their preparation, and are supplied at no greater cost than 
the objectionable desserts. These with a few desserts made 
of rice, cereals, tapioca, gelatine, and ice creams, should furnish 
ample variety. 

Dried fruits, although not popular, are among the cheapest 
fruits possible to procure, and when properly prepared, form 
desserts of the choicest and most desirable character. The 

211 



212 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

uncooked or steeped dried fruits are the most wholesome. This 
method restores, to a great degree, their original color, plump- 
ness, and mild flavor. The medicinal properties remain intact ; 
whereas cooking disturbs the chemical composition, affects 
the fruit sugar and liberates the acid in the peels. This with 
the combination of commercial sugar develops acids of an 
irritating character and renders the fruit strong in taste and 
dark in color. 

Follow the directions given in recipes and note the difference 
between the steeped and cooked evaporated fruits. 

APPLES. 

The apple, a fruit of unknown origin but now distributed to 
all temperate zones, is one of the most deservedly popular fruits 
grown. Its keeping qualities are greater than almost any other 
fruit, which makes it possible of wide distribution. 

The acid of the apple is among the most ^holesome and 
healthful of substances. It has a tendency to accelerate the 
digestive fluids, to stimulate or arouse the action of the liver 
when torpid; and thus enables it to discharge and throw off 
bilious attacks and those diseases arising from slow blood poi- 
soning. 

Their medicinal principles are more vitally active when eaten 
raw, and there is no other way in which they can be eaten that 
is a source of more enjoyment to the person of normal tastes. 

Apples Royal. 

Take tart, red apples. Quarter and core. Cut in cubes. 
Do not peel. To each pint of cubed apples add one cupful of 
whipped cream, slightly sweetened. Garnish with strawber- 
ries cut in halves, or any kind of fresfi berries. 



Desserts 213 

Apple with Cream. 

Take mellow, tart apples, pare, cut in quarters and slice. To 
each pint of sliced apples add enough sweetened, whipped 
cream to mask. Garnish with shredded nuts. Apples must 
be peeled and sliced just before wanting to serve, or they will 
become discolored; however, this may be prevented by add- 
ing a few drops of lemon juice to the apples. This is a most 
wholesome dessert. 

Baked Apples. 

Take firm apples, tart or sweet. Tart apples will bake much 
quicker, and will have a better flavor. Remove core, put into 
pan, add sufficient water to keep from burning, place in moder- 
ately hot oven. When half done, sprinkle lightly with sugar. 
Upon removing from oven add small piece of butter to each 
half. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

Steamed Apples. 

Take medium-sized tart apples, wash and remove core. Put 
on plate or pan, season with butter and sugar and place in 
steamer. Serve with or without whipped cream. 

Steamed Apples. 

Wash, pare, and quarter tart or sweet apples. Put into 
pan or dish, place in steam cooker. When tender remove 
and add small quantity of sugar. Allow to stand until sugar 
permeates fruit. By steaming the pieces remain unbroken 
and are brighter in color than when cooked in open kettle. 

Apple La Pointe. 

Take tart apples. Pare, core, cut in halves. Cover bottom 
of baking dish with the halves, add a little water and bake in 
moderately hot oven. When tender remove, sprinkle lightly 
with sugar, cover with entire wheat bread crumbs to depth of 



214 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

one-eighth inch, add butter and small quantity of sugar to 
crumbs. Bake in oven until crumbs are a delicate brown. 
Serve with or without cream. 

Apple Sauce. 

Take tart apples. Pare, core and stew or steam until tender. 
Rub through colander or sieve. Sweeten and chill. Serve 
plain or with cream. 

Apples and Bananas. 

Take tart eating apples. Apples should be mellow. Pare, 
cut in quarters and slice crosswise. To each pint of sliced 
apples add one pint of sliced bananas. Mask with whipped 
cream, slightly sweetened. Garnish with shredded nuts. 

Dried Apples. 

Take amount of dried apples desired, wash thoroughly, place 
in earthern jar, add sufficient water to keep them covered, and 
allow to soak over night. In morning place on the stove where 
they will simmer, and cook until tender. Remove, add small 
quantity of sugar and chill. Serve plain or with prune sauce. 

Dried Apples with Raisins. 

Thoroughly wash one pint of dried apples. Wash one cup- 
ful of raisins and add to apples. Put fruit into an earthen 
jar and. add sufficient water to keep it covered. Soak over 
night, put on stove in the morning and simmer until apples are 
tender. This dish will require very little sugar. 

Apple Trifle. 

Pare, quarter and core enough tart apples to fill a quart 
measure. Place in pan or earthen baking dish, cover with 
one quart of boiling water, cover dish, place in oven and stew 
until tender. Remove from oven, drain water oif, and add 
one-half cupful of sugar to apples. Do not break quarters if 



Desserts 215 

possible. To the liquid from the apples which should be three 
cupfuls add one-half cupful of gelatine, allow to dissolve, then 
add juice of one lemon and one-half cupful of sugar, dissolve, 
pour over apples and chill. Serve with peach sauce. 

Apples and Quinces. 

Pare and quarter one quart each of apples and quinces. Stew 
or steam (steaming prefei*red) in separate vessels. The 
quinces will require more cooking than the apples. When 
both are tender, combine, and add sufficient sugar to sweeten. 
Allow to stand until flavors are blended and sugar has per- 
meated the fruit. Serve with cream. 

Sliced Peaches and Cream. 

Pare ripe peaches, slice into fruit dishes, sprinkle lightly 
with sugar. Cover with whipped cream, or serve and add 
plain cream to each serving. 

Canned Peaches. 

Home-canned peaches are preferable, but if factory-canned 
are depended upon, try to discover a good brand and procure 
it so long as the quality remains good. 

Peach Trifle. 

Dissolve in one cupful of water one-half cupful of gelatine. 
It will require about two hours for gelatine to dissolve. Add 
to this one pint of boiling water and one-half cupful of sugar. 
Pour this liquid over one quart of steeped or canned peaches, 
chill. Serve plain, or with cream. 

Steeped Peaches. 

Take evaporated peaches, wash thoroughly in warm water. 
Sterilize by covering with boiling water, allow to remain for 
three minutes. Then drain and add cold water. The quick 
variation in temperature will destroy all germ life that may be 



216 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

present. Place fruit in earthen jar, cover with water, soak 
from eighteen to twenty-four hours, and unless the fruit was 
green when picked, at the end of twenty-four hours it will 
be plump, tender, bright and of a flavor not inferior to fresh 
fruit. 

Peach loL Pointe. 

Cover bottom of baking dish or pan with steeped peaches to 
the depth of one inch, cover with a layer of entire wheat bread 
cnmibs one-eighth inch thick, add liberal amount of butter, 
and a small amount of sugar. Bake until crumbs are a delicate 
brown. Serve plain or with whipped cream. See above 
recipe for steeped peaches. 

Peach-Prune Marmalade. 

Take one quart of steeped dried peaches and one quart of 
steeped prunes. Put peaches and prunes through sieve, blend 
the two fruits, and sweeten slightly. Serve with cream. 
See recipes for steeped peaches and prunes. 

Peaches and Raisins. 

Thoroughly wash in warm water and sterilize one-half pound 
of dried peaches and one cupful of raisins. Put peaches and 
raisins in earthen jar, cover with water, soak for twenty- 
four hours. If they fail to become tender, set on back of 
stove and heat them to 150° F. Allow them to remain at 
this temperature for two or three hours. No sugar required. 
See recipe for steeped peaches for sterilizing. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Take one quart of steeped peaches. (See recipe for steeped 
peaches page 215.) Drain liquor off, put through sieve and 
slightly sweeten. Serve plain or with cream. 



R 



Desserts 217 

Apricots with Cream. 

Take fresh apricots, subject to boiling water one-half minute, 
remove and put into cold water. This will loosen peel if 
apricots were ripe when picked. Remove peel, slice into fruit 
dish, sprinkle lightly with sugar. Serve with cream. 

Steeped Apricots. 

Take one-half pound of evaporated apricots. Wash thor- 
oughly and sterilize, put into earthen jar, cover with water, and 
soak from eighteen to twenty-four hours. Add sugar four 
hours before steeping is completed. Serve plain or with cream. 

Apricot La Pointe. 
Prepare as "Peach La Pointe." 

Apricots and Prunes. 
Prepare as "Peaches and Prunes." 

Apricots and Raisins. 
Prepare as "Peaches and Raisins." 

Apricot Marmalade. 
Prepare same as "Peach Marmalade." 

Prunes Steamed. 

Take sweet California prunes. Wash thoroughly and soak 
over night. In morning place in steamer, steam one hour, 
add small amount of sugar and chill. Serve plain or with 
cream. 

Steeped Prunes. 

Take one-half pound of prunes. Wash thoroughly and 
sterilize by subjecting them to boiling water one minute, then 
to cold water. The variation in temperature will destroy 
all germ life present. Put into earthen jar, cover with water. 



218 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

and soak twenty- four hours, at which time prunes will be 
perfectly tender. No sugar required. Pit. Serve plain or 
with whipped cream. 

Prune Whip. 

Prepare as for steeped prunes. (See above recipe.) Re- 
move pits, pour off liquid, put prunes through sieve, and slight- 
ly sweeten the pulp. Serve in sherbet glasses. To each 
serving add a tablespoonful of whipped cream. 

Prune Pudding. 

To one pint of graham porridge add one pint of steeped 
prunes which have been pitted and cut in quarters. Slightly 
sweeten. Serve hot with cream. One cupful of grated nuts 
may be added. 

Prune Fig Pudding. 

Take one cupful of boiling water, add four tablespoonfuls 
of cream of wheat, stir constantly until it sets, then add one 
cupful of pitted prunes and one cupful of chopped figs. Cook 
fifteen minutes in double-boiler. Serve hot with peach sauce, 
or with cream. (Laxative.) 

Prune Trifle. 

Take one-half pound of prunes. Wash thoroughly and 
prepare as for steeped prunes. Drain off liquor, add enough 
water to make three cupfuls of liquid. Dissolve in this one- 
half cupful or one ounce of gelatine, add one-half cupful of 
sugar, pour over prunes. Chill until gelatine sets. Serve 
plain or with peach sauce. 

To dissolve the gelatine, pour over it one cupful of the 
prune juice, allow to stand until gelatine is dissolved. Heat 
the remainder of the liquid to the boiling point, add it to the 
dissolved gelatine. It may be poured over prunes immediately. 
Set on ice until gelatine becomes congealed. 



Desserts 219 

Sliced Oranges and Bananas. 

Take one pint of sliced oranges and one pint of sliced 
bananas. Blend, and sprinkle lightly with sugar, if desired. 
If oranges are sweet, sugar should be omitted. Serve plain. 

Baked Custard. 

One quart of milk, six beaten eggs, one-half cupful of sugar 
and one teaspoonful of extract. Add the milk, sugar, and 
extract to the beaten eggs. Blend and bake in dish or in in- 
dividual custard cups. Heat of oven must be very moderate. 
Remove custard from the oven immediately after it thickens 
in the center. This can be determined by touching it with 
a spoon. If custard bakes too rapidly it will be watery and 
curded. When a stiff custard is desired add eight eggs. 

Boiled Custard. 

Beat four eggs in upper vessel of double boiler, dissolve in 
them two rounding tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, add one 
quart of milk, one-half cupful of sugar and one teaspoonful 
of extract. Cook in double-boiler until custard thickens. Stir 
frequently to prevent cornstarch settling. 

Bread Custard. 
Cover bottom of pan to depth of one-half inch with cubes of 
stale bread. Pour over bread one inch of boiled custard, chill. 
By this method the bread will not become soggy and difficult 
of digestion. 

Peach Custard. 

Line the bottom of dish with double layer of steeped 
peaches; peaches should be free from liquor and slightly 
sweetened. Cover with one inch of boiled custard and chill. 
Serve one or two halves of peach with each serving. 

Apricot, Banana, Apple, or Orange Custard may be made 
over recipe for "Peach Custard." 



220 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Cocoanut Custard. 

To one quart of boiled custard add one and one-half cupfuls 
of grated cocoanut. Mold in individual custard cups and chill. 
Serve with fruit sauce, if desired. 

Nut Custard. 

To one quart of boiled custard add one cupful of grated 
nut meats and chill. Serve with fruit sauce. 

Rice Custard. 

Take one-half cupful of rice, wash thoroughly, add one 
and one-half cupfuls of boiling water. Cook in double-boiler 
or steam-cooker (cooker preferred) until tender. Then add 
one quart of boiled custard — custard must be hot, blend. 
Chill. Serve with whipped cream, shredded nuts or any kind 
of crushed fruit. 

Tapioca Custard. 

Take one-half cupful of tapioca, add one and one-half cup- 
fuls of water, and soak over night. In the morning add one and 
6ne-half pints of milk. Cook in double-boiler or steam-cooker 
until tender. Then add four well-beaten eggs to which has 
been added one-half pint of hot milk and one tablespoonful 
of flour stirred smooth with milk. Add one-half cupful of 
sugar, a dash of salt, one teaspoonful of flavoring. Chill. 
Serve plain or with crushed fruit. 

Com Starch Pudding. 

To one quart of milk, brought to the boiling point in double- 
boiler, add tx/o heaping tablespoonfuls of cornstarch rubbed 
smooth with a little cold milk. Stir milk constantly and rapid- 
ly while adding cornstarch. When pudding thickens remove 
from the fire and beat in the beaten yolks of two eggs, one-half 
cupful of sugar and flavoring. Turn into dish. Cover with 



Desserts 221 

a meringue made of the stifHy beaten whites of two eggs to 
which has been added two roimding tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Garnish with strawberries or any berries in season. 

Cornstarch Float. 

Bring three pints of sweet milk to the boiling point in double- 
boiler, add two rounding tablespoonfuls of cornstarch pre- 
viously stirred smooth with a little cold milk. Stir constantly 
while adding cornstarch. When pudding thickens remove 
from fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, one-half cup- 
ful of sugar, one teaspoonful of flavoring. Partially cool, then 
fold in the stifHy beaten whites of two eggs. Chill. Serve 
plain or with fruit sauce. 

Snow Pudding. 

To one quart of boiling sweet milk add two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of cornstarch stirred smooth with a little milk. Cook 
five minutes after pudding thickens. Turn into dish. Chill. 
Serve with crushed fruit. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Bring one quart of sweet milk to the boiling point in double- 
boiler. Add three rounding tablespoonfuls of cornstarch 
stirred smooth with a little cold milk. Stir constantly while 
adding cornstarch to milk. When it thickens remove from 
fire, add three-fourths cupful of sugar, and two squares of 
bitter chocolate melted. Put into individual molds. Chill. 
Serve with cream or fruit sauce. 

Fruit Puddings 

Bring one quart of milk to the boiling point in the double- 
boiler. Stir in two heaping tablespoonfuls of cornstarch stirred 
smooth with a little cold milk. When pudding thickens stir 
in one cupful of washed raisins, one cupful of chopped figs, 



222 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

and one cupful of pitted dates. Cook five minutes, turn into 
dish. Chill. Serve with cream. 

Royal Fruit Pudding. 

Bring one pint of sweet milk to the boiling point in double- 
boiler. Stir in one-half cupful of cream of wheat, stir until 
it thickens. Then add one-half cupful of washed raisins, one- 
half cupful of washed currants, one-half cupful of chopped 
figs, one-half cupful of pitted dates. Cook fifteen minutes. 
Chill. Serve with cream. 

Hygiea Fruit Pudding. 

Take six cupfuls of entire wheat bread crumbs, one cupful 
of dates, one cupful of nuts. Put bread, dates and nuts 
through food chopper. Mix thoroughly. Serve with cream. 

Cream Fruit Pudding. 

Take one quart of freshly grated cocoanut, one cupful of 
pitted and chopped dates, one cupful of figs, one pint of 
crushed pineapple. Mix all ingredients together. Serve 
plain or with whipped cream. 

Rice Cream Pudding. 

Take one-half cupful of thoroughly-washed rice, add four 
cupfuls of milk and three-fourths cupful of sugar. Put all 
into baking dish, add a dash of salt and piece of butter, put 
in slow oven and bake until tender. Stir frequently in be- 
ginning. May be served hot or cold with peach sauce. 

Rice Raisin Pudding. 

Take one-half cupful of thoroughly-washed rice, add one 
and one-half cupfuls of rich milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and one pint of raisins. Put in steam-cooker and steam until 
rice is tender. Serve cold. 



Desserts 223 

Rice Apple Pudding. 

Steam rice in milk until tender, sweeten slightly and spread 
layer of rice one-half inch deep in the bottom of a pan, then a 
layer of lemon flavored apple sauce. Add alternately rice 
and sauce until the desired amount is prepared, put in slow 
oven and thoroughly heat. Serve hot. 

Elberta Rice Pudding. 

Steam rice in milk until tender, sweeten slightly and spread 
layer of rice one-half inch deep in the bottom of a pan, then a 
layer of steeped or canned peaches. Add alternate layers 
of rice and peaches until amount desired is prepared. Put 
in slow oven and thoroughly heat. 

Tapioca Cream. 

To one-half cupful of tapioca add one and one-half cupfuls 
of water. Soak over night. In the morning add one pint 
of rich milk, and one-half cupful of sugar. Cook in double- 
boiler or steam-cooker until tender. Stir tapioca several 
times while cooking to keep from settling. Cool. Serve 
with fruit sauce. 

Apple Tapioca. 

To one-half cupful of tapioca add one and one-half cupfuls 
of water. Soak over night. In the morning add one pint 
of water, three- fourths cupful of sugar and four medium-sized 
tart apples that have been quartered and cored. Put into pan, 
place in steam-cooker and steam, or bake in moderately hot 
oven until apples are tender. 

Peach Tapioca. 

Make over recipe for "Apple Tapioca." Use one quart of 
steeped or fresh peaches. 



224 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Apricot Tapioca. 

Make over recipe for "Apple Tapioca." Use one quart 
of steeped or fresh apricots. 

Pineapple Tapioca. 

Make over recipe for "Apple Tapioca." Mince one large 
pineapple and stir in when tapioca is tender. 

Cherry Tapioca. 

Take one-half cupful of tapioca, add one and one-half cup- 
fuls of water. Soak over night. In morning add one pint 
of water, one cupful of sugar and one quart of cherries. 
Cook in double-boiler or steam-cooker until tender. Chill. 
Serve plain or with cream. 

Quince Tapioca. 

Make over "Apple Tapioca" recipe. Add one-fourth cup- 
ful more of sugar. 

Prune Tapioca. 

Take one-half cupful of tapioca, add one and one-half cup- 
fuls of water. Soak over night. In morning add one pint 
of water and one-half cupful of sugar. Cook in double- 
boiler or steam-cooker. When tender fold in one quart of 
stewed prunes. Chill. Serve plain or with cream. 

Quince Trifle. 
Make over recipe for "Apple Trifle." (Page 214.) 

Blackberries, Raspberries, Strawberries, Blueberries, 
Mulberries, Currants, Cherries, etc., should always be served 
raw with cream when in season. A little sugar may be 
added. 

The above named berries form delicious desserts, when 
molded with gelatine as 'Truit Trifle." 



Desserts 225 

Fruit Marvel. 

Take one cupful of malaga grapes, cut in halves, one cup- 
ful of sliced bananas, one cupful of finely sliced pineapple, 
one cupful of pitted chopped dates. Mix. Pour over this 
the following jell: to three-fourths cupful of gelatine add 
one cupful of water, allow to stand until dissolved; then add 
one pint of boiling water, one-half cupful of sugar, and the 
juice of one lemon. Pour over fruit, and place in cold place 
to chill. Serve with whipped cream. 

Many similar combinations of fruits with gelatine make 
splendid desserts. 

Fruit Salad No, 1. 

Take one cupful of sliced apples — ^mellow, tart apples should 
be used— one cupful of sliced bananas, one-half cupful of 
seeded raisins, one-half cupful of chopped dates. Mix together 
well and pour over three- fourths of a pint of orange juice. 
Sprinkle grated nut meats over each serving. 

Fruit Salad No. 2. 

Take one cupful of sliced apples — ^mellow, tart apples should 
be used — one cupful of sliced bananas and one-half cupful 
of sliced peaches. Mix together, and add two tablespoonfuls of 
granulated sugar and three- fourths of a pint of whipped cream. 
The cream should be whipped until it is very stiff and slightly 
sweetened. Mix the cream well through the fruit. Garnish 
each serving with grated cocoanut. 

Fruit Salad No. 3. 

Take one cupful of sliced oranges, one cupful of sliced 
bananas, one-half cupful of .chopped dates, one-half cupful of 
sliced apples — mellow, tart apples should be used— one-half 
cupful of broken English walnuts. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and serve with royal salad dressing. For the dress- 



226 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

ing take two eggs and three-fourths of a cupful of cream, two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and three or four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Beat the eggs, whites and yolks separately. Beat 
rather stiff, then fold the whites into the yolks. Beat the 
cream until it is stiff. Dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice, 
add the lemon juice and sugar to the cream and beat through 
well, then add the cream to the eggs. Cream should be 
lightly folded into the eggs or it will not remain stiff. Cover 
each serving of salad with a tablespoonful or two of the 
dressing. 

Fruit Salad No. 4. 

Take one cupful of pineapple, one cupful of sliced bananas 
(the pineapples should be cut in rather small pieces), one- 
half cupful of sliced apples — mellow, tart apples should be 
used — one cupful of English walnut meats, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar. Mix well together, and garnish each serving 
with grated English walnut meats or a tablespoonful of royal 
salad dressing. 

Fruit Salad No. 5. 

Take one cupful of sliced bananas, one cupful of seeded 
cherries, and one cupful of sliced peaches. Canned cherries 
may be used if fresh ones are not in season. Add four table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar, mix well together and serve 
with cream dressing or royal dressing. 

Fruit Salad No. 6. 

Take one cupful of strawberries. Strawberries should be 
cut in quarters. Add one cupful of sliced bananas, one cupful 
of red or black raspberries, one cupful of chopped dates. 
Mix the fruits together and serve with cream dressing. 

In making fruit salads, it is not necessary to adhere to these 
recipes exactly in regard to amounts. Almost any combina- 



Desserts 227 

don of fruits with a nice dressing makes a delicious, whole- 
some dessert 

Sponge Pudding. 

Bake a sheet sponge cake made over recipe on page 201. 
Cut in squares and serve with peach sauce. 

FRUIT SAUCES. 

The following fruit sauces are for custards, puddings, and 
fruit salads. 

Peach Sauce. 

Use the canned peaches that are put up in a heavy syrup. 
Cut them into small cubes, or crush them. 

« 

Apricot Sauce. 
Make over recipe for "Peach Sauce." 

Strawberry Sauce. 

Take^ne quart of ripe berries, wash thoroughly and stem. 
Mash, add three-fourths cupful of sugar. 

Blackberry Sauce. 

Take one quart of blackberries. Crush, and add three- 
fourths cupful of sugar. 

Raspberry Sauce. 

Take one pint of raspberries, crush, add one-third cupful 
of sugar. 

Currant Sauce. 

Take one pint of currants, add three-fourths cupful of 
sugar, crush. Serve on puddings and custards. 



228 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Pineapple Sauce. 

Take one medium-sized pineapple, peel, remove eyes, cut in 
pieces and run through food chopper, add three-fourths cup- 
ful of sugar. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Take one pint of cranberries, add one cupful of sugar, and 
one-half cupful of water. Cook until berries burst. Press 
through sieve to remove hulls. Cool. Serve with puddings 
and roast turkey. 

Gooseberry Sauce. 

Take one pint of gooseberries, add one cupful of sugar, and 
one-half cupful of water. Cook until berries burst, and crush. 
A little pink vegetable coloring adds to the appearance of the 
sauce. 

Plum Sauce. 

Take one pint of the red or blue plums, add one-half cup- 
ful of water, cook until tender, rub through sieve, and add 
one cupful of sugar. Chill before using. 

Quince Sauce. 

Pare and grate enough to make one cupful of grated quince, 
add one-half cupful of water and one cupful of sugar. Coc4c 
slowly for twenty minutes. Cool. Add water to make it 
the proper consistency if necessary. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

ICE CREAM AND ICES. 



THERE can be no objections to plain, hygienic ice cream 
composed of cream, milk, eggs, gelatine, and sugar, but 
much of the ice cream sold is not of cleanly origin, nor is it 
wholesome in character, and eaten at all hours of the day and 
night, together with sweet "dopes" and cake, adds to its in- 
jurious effects. It undoubtedly gives rise to many, diges- 
tive ailments. 

Most of the fillings used in factory creams are harmless in 
character, but many of the colorings and flavorings are chemi- 
cal compounds and are poisonous. This is especially true of 
soda fountain syrups which are so generally added to ice 
cream. Unless one is confident of the cleanliness of the 
factory, and the quality of the cream, it is safer to manu- 
facture ice cream in the home. This can be done with very 
little labor and at small cost. 

Why parents willingly allow their children to incessantly 
indulge in the products of the soda fountain and the confec- 
tionery store is beyond comprehension. To humor children 
in this manner shows extreme carelessness on the part of 
parents. The same money that will buy a child a "dope" or 
soda water will buy it some nice fruit or a glass of fruit juice ; 
cither of which is delicious to a normal appetite, and both 
are invigorating health promoters. 

The following recipes are simple in their preparation, and 
make excellent cream. 

Sherbets are always acceptable during the summer months. 
They supplement the heavier desserts and the fruit acid 

229 



230 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

is both cooling and invigorating, and a cleanser of the 
system. An ice cream freezer is a valuable additi(Mi to any 
kitchen equipment. 

Health Cream. 

Take one gallon of common cream, add one-half pound 
of granulated sugar and one tablespoonful of flavoring. Dis- 
solve the sugar in the cream, then pour into freezer and freeze 
as stiff as possible. Pack well and allow to stand five or six 
hours. Bananas or any crushed fruit may be added to the 
cream. Add fruit after cream has begun to freeze. For 
this amount use a gallon and a half freezer to give sufficient 
room for expansion of cream. 

Ice Cream. 

(Gelatine Filling.) Take one-half gallon of milk, two eggs, 
one-half gallon of cream, two ounces of gelatine, one pound 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flavoring. Add the sugar to 
one quart of the milk, and the gelatine to the other quart and 
allow it to stand one hour in a cool place. Then put the 
ingredients all together, stir thoroughly and strain. Put into 
freezer and freeze stiff. Pack and allow to stand for one 
hour. 

Frozen Custard. 

Take one gallon of milk. Heat one-half of it in double- 
boiler to boiling point. Beat five eggs light. Stir four heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of flour or two of cornstarch smooth with 
a little milk, add the flour to the beaten eggs, pour the hot milk 
into the bowl containing eggs and flour and stir rapidly. Then 
pour mixture back into double-boiler and cook until it thickens. 
By this process custard will not get lumpy. Add remainder 
of milk, strain into freezer, add one and three-fourths cup- 
fuls of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of extract. Chill 



Ice Cream and Ices 231 

rapidly, then freeze. When frozen pack well and allow it to 
stand for one hour. One-half cupful of butter added and 
stirred through the hot custard will improve the cream. Nice 
served with crushed fruit. 

FRUIT AND NUT CREAMS. 

A large variety of creams may be made, by using either of 
the above recipes and adding crushed fruits, shredded nuts, 
chocolate or colorings as desired. 

Apple Sherbet. 

One quart of apples, one pint of water, juice of one lemon, 
one cupful of sugar. Add the water and sugar to the apples 
and cook them until tender, press through sieve, add the 
lemon juice and allow to cool ; then put into freezer and freeze 
as ice cream. Remove dasher and pack, allow to stand thirty 
minutes or longer before using. 

Peach Sherbet. 

One quart of sliced peaches, one and one-half cupfuls of 
sugar, one pint of water, juice of one lemon. 

Boil the water and sugar rapidly for three or four minutes, 
cool and pour it on the sliced peaches, add the lemon juice and 
turn the mixture into freezer and freeze. Then remove 
dasher and pack until ready to use. 

Apricot Sherbet. 

tJse peach sherbet recipe and substitute canned or fresh 
apricots for peaches. 

Strawberry Sherbet. 

One quart of berries, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, one 
pint of water, juice of one lemon. Boil the sugar and water 
together for five minutes, crush the berries and add them to 



232 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

the syrup, add the lemon juice and cool, then freeze. When 
ready to pack beat stiff the whites of two eggs, add to them 
one heaping tablespoonful of sugar, beat until the sugar is 
dissolved and fold them into the frozen sherbet. Pack until 
ready to use. 

Blackberry Ice. 
Use the recipes given for strawberry sherbet, substituting 
blackberries for strawberries. Cook the blackberries with the 
water and sugar for fifteen minutes and then strain, using a 
fine sieve, and press the berries through. 

Raspberry Ice. 
See above recipe for blackberry ice. 

Frozen Pineapple. 
Peel, remove the eyes and mince two large pineapples, re- 
jecting the core. Add three cupfuls of sugar and one pint 
of water to the pineapple, stir until the sugar is dissolved, turn 
into freezer and freeze. Pack for a little while before using. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

BEVERAGES. 



BECAUSE of established customs nearly all children while 
young form the habit of drinking some beverage at meal 
time. That the drinking of much liquid or stimulating berev- 
ages (coffee or tea) with the meal is fruitful of ill effects cannot 
be gainsaid. The fact that it encourages hasty mastication, and 
that dilution of the digestive fluids occurs which affects and 
reduces their action upon the food eaten, are good and suffi- 
cient reasons for the avoiding of too much liquid with the 
meal. If thirst occurs while eating, it is an evidence of 
r?pid eating, or of too highly seasoned foods, or that too 
little water was drunk preceding the meal, any of which 
faults should be corrected. However, when thirst does occur 
during eating the craving should be satisfied with a beverage 
of a non-stimulating nature, which may consist of one of 
the following: water, milk, or fruit juices. 

Milk. 

While milk is often used and drunk as a beverage and may 
fill that office in nearly every respect, yet it is in reality a 
food of the protein group and should be classed in its proper 
relation to other foods. A glass of milk with the meal can 
be highly recommended for both children and adults except 
in cases where an individual peculiarity will not permit of its 
use. Milk is slightly constipating in character ; however, this 
objectionable feature can be overcome by its intelligent com- 
bination with other foods, and it should be sipped slowly in 
order to avoid the forming of large curds which result when a 

233 



234 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

glassftU is rapidly drunk. Mothers will always find its use 
a great advantage in the rearing of children. 

Tea and Coffee. 

Either of these beverages should be used in great modera- 
tion owing to their stimulating effect upon the nervous sys- 
tem. If nervousness is encouraged or accompanies their 
use, thev are enemies to the health of the individual and their 
use should be curtailed at once. 

That many of the ill effects attending the use of tea and 
coffee is due to the careless methods employed in the making is 
hardly a question. If the processes of steeping are extended 
to the point that the caffein and tanin are extracted, they 
will have deleterious effect upon the nervous system, but if 
the steeping is carefully and <!orrectly carried on, the drinking 
of these much esteemed beverages may be enjoyed by most 
people without the appearance of any harmful effects. 
However, to allow young or growing children to indulge in 
either tea or coffee is inexcusable on the part of parents and 
cannot be too harshly criticized. The age of twenty is none 
too old to begin the use of these beverages and their ex- 
cessive use is harmful at any age. 

Coffee. 

Allow one rounding tablespoonful to the cupful of water. 
Moisten the coffee with the white of egg or use a little 
crushed egg shell. Either hot or cold water. If hot 
water is used set the pot where it will barely simmer and 
allow the coffee to steep for fifteen minutes. When cold 
water is used bring the coffee to the boiling point and steep 
it at the simmering point for fifteen minutes. It is advisable 
to tie the coffee in a cloth when a common pot is used. 

A coffee percolator is the most satisfactory utensil to em- 
ploy in the making of good coffee. 



Beverages 235 

The cereal preparations intended to serve as substitutes for 
coffee are similar to coffee in that they are without food value. 
They are free from caffein; however, little can be said in 
their favor. 

Tea. 

Allow one rounding teaspoonf ul to the pint of water. Add 
boiling water and allow it to steep for five minutes. Keep 
it a little below the boiling point. 

Cocoa. 
Cocoa is superior to tea and coffee in many respects. It 
contains less stimulating , properties (theobromin), and when 
made with milk is nutritious. The cocoa itself contains some 
food elements. To make cocoa, use one rounding teaspoon- 
ful of cocoa and one heaping teaspoonful of sugar to the cup- 
ful of liquid. Blend the dry cocoa and sugar and dissolve 
them with boiling water. Heat the milk to the scalding 
point in the double boiler or sauce pan, then add the dissolved 
cocoa and allow it to remain on the stove for five minutes, ex- 
ercise care to avoid allowing it to bojl if a pan is used. 

Fruit Punch. 

Juice of one lemon, one cupful of grape juice, one banana 
cut in dice, one-half cupful of sugar, and one pint of water. 
Add more water and sugar if desired. 

Various combinations of this character will produce pleas- 
ing flavors. The fruit juices, punches, and lemonade are 
refreshing, invigorating, and cooling in summer. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

MENUS. 



THE following menus are intended as a guide for the 
young and inexperienced housewife. They furnish an 
idea of simple, economical, healthful, and strength-building 
meals. 

After partakiilg of meals of this character for a few weeks, 
the desire for the more highly seasoned foods will disappear, 
and the women called upon to do the cooking will realize the 
ease with which these meals are prepared, and the small ex- 
penditure of time required in the kitchen. 

That people eat too much food and that much of it is of 
a character threatening to health cannot be gainsaid. The 
medical profession has awakened to this fact, and it is not an 
uncommon thing to hear the statement that most ills originate in 
the digestive system. The combination and the variety of food 
cooked, and the recklessness with which people eat, can only be 
explained because of the ignorance existing on these subjects. 

Meals that combine to supply the various food elements in 
their proper proportion are a physiological requisite to health. 
The system labors under difficulties which produce disease 
symptoms when an over-abundance of all or any one of the 
food elements is eaten. This is especially true of protein, and 
an over amount of this constituent can only be justified in 
the absence of carbohydrates and hydrocarbons in which case 
it will act in their capacity, but at a much greater expense to 
the system. 

The two following menus will serve as an illustration of 
poorly arranged, unbalanced meals. 

236 



Menus 237 

Beef Soup. 

(protein) 

Broiled Beef. Creamed Peas. 

(protein) (protein) 

Baked Potatoes. Bean Salad. 

(starch) (protein) 

Bread. Baked Custard. 

(starch and protein) ( carbohydrates and protein) 

In this menu it will be noticed that the protein foods are 

greatly in excess and entirely out of proportion. The meat or 

any two of the other protein foods eaten in moderation would 

be sufficient for one meal. 

Potato Soup. 

(starch) 

Corn on the Cob. Creamed Carrots. 

(starch) (starch) 

Bread. Lettuce Salad. 

(starch and protein) 

Rice Pudding. 
(starch) 
The above menu shows an absence of protein foods, except 
that supplied in the bread which is insufficient; whereas, the 
starch foods are in excess. 

The following menu will be considered a reconstruction. of 
the above with a protein food added and one starch food can- 
celled. 

Cream of Potato Soup. 
Roast Meat. Buttered Carrots. 

Corn on the Cob. Lettuce Salad. 

Bread. Fruit Dessert. 

In this menu the soup or the corn could be profitably omit- 
ted, since too great variety is not desirable and adds to kitchen 
labor. 



238 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

The following menus illustrate and serve as a guide for the 
construction of similar healthful menus. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast 

Fresh Fruit. 

Cream of Wheat. Dates. Cream. 

Poached Eggs on Buttered Toast. 

Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Celery Soup. 

Wafers. Ripe Olives. 

Roast Duck or Chicken. 

Baked Potatoes. Creamed Onions. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Dairy Butter. 

Fruit Salad. 

Lemonade. 

Supper. 

Celery Nut Salad, Cream Dressing. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Nut Butter. 

Canned Peaches. Angel Food Cake. 

Fruit Punch. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast 

Fresh Fruit. 

Soft Boiled Eggs. 

Graham Mufiins. Honey. Butter. 

Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Noodle Soup. 

Radishes. Wafers. 

Coddled Steak. 



Menus 239 

Baked Mashed Potatoes. Buttered Carrots. 

Fruit Bread. Butter. 

Steeped or Canned Peaches. 

Water. 

Supper. 

Creamed Sweetbreads on Toast. 

Cold Slaw, Lemon Dressing. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Pitted Primes. Nuts. 



Breakfast. 




Fresh Fruit. 




Rolled Oats. 


Bananas. 


Corn Muffins. 


Honey. 


Cocoa. 





Dinner. 

Cream Carrot Soup. 

Green Onions. Wafers. 

Baked Fish. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. Lettuce Salad. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Tapioca Custard, with Fruit Sauce. 

Water. 

Supper. 

Rice with Cheese. 

Celery. 

Fruit Gems. Butter. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Fruit Juice. 



240 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 



WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. 
Rolled Wheat Porridge. Dates. 

Nuts. Figs. 

Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

Radishes. 

Roast Beef. 

Corn on Cob. 

Entire Wheat Bread. 

Rice Pudding. 
Lemonade. 



Cream. 



Supper. 
Cottage Cheese. 
Apple Salad. 

Ice Cream. 



Buttered Beets. 
Butter. 



Gems.- 



THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit, 
Sherred Eggs. Buttered Toast. 

Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Vegetable Soup. 

Celery. Wafers. 

Beef Loaf. 

Macaroni and Cheese. Vegetable Salad. 

Fruit Bread. Butter. 

Berries. Cream. 

Water. 



Mentis 241 

Supper. 

Creamed Potatoes. 
Celery. Cream Cheese. 

Graham Muffins. Butter. 

Apple Sauce. 
Fruit Juice. 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. 

Cream of Wheat served with Bananas. 

Omelet 
Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Vegetable Soup. 

Wafers. Ripe Olives. 

Broiled Fish. 

Creamed Limas. Celery Salad. 

Graham Bread. Butter. 

Apple La Pointe with Cream. 

Water. 

Supper. 

Creamed Fish. 

Gems. . Nut Butter. 

Steeped Apricots. 

Sunshine Cake. 

Lemonade. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. 

Rolled Oats. Figs. 

Creamed Chipped Beef. Buttered Toast. 

Cocoa. 



242 Tht Practical Hygienic Prgparation of Foods 

Dinner. 

Cream Potato Soup. 

Ripe Olives. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Spinach Souffle. Buttered Beets. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Baked Apples, Cream. 

Water. 

Supper. 

Scalloped Com. 

Summer Salad. 

Graham Bread. Butter. 

Prune Whip. Cake. 

Apple Juice. 

VEGETARIAN MENUS. 

Those with vegetarian inclinations will find the following 
menus helpful. The variety may be increased ; however, those 
given furnish sufficient range and are intended to encourage 
the simple diet. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. 
Rolled Wheat Served with Dates, 

Soft Boiled Eggs. 
Corn Gems. Nut Butter. 

Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Lima Bean Soup. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Sliced or Cold Canned Tomatoes. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 



Menus 243 

Apple Tapioca Pudding with Cream. 
Nuts. Figs. 

Supper. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Fruit Bread. Honey. 

Steeped Prunes. 

Fruit Cake. Milk. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. 

Creara of Wheat Served with Bananas. 

Nut Bread. Honey. 

Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Tomato Soup. 

Vegetarian Turkey. Spinach Souffle. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Celery Salad. 

Sliced Bananas Served with Cream. 

Supper. 

Carrots and Peas. 

Celery. Ripe Olives. 

Fruit Bread. Nut Butter. 

Fig Pudding Served with Cream. 

TUESDAY, 
Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. ! 

Poached Eggs. j 

Com Meal Muffins. Butter. j 

Nuts. 
Cocoa. 



244 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Dinner. 

Cream Carrot and Pea Soup. 

Bean Loaf. Buttered Beets. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Baked Apples. 

Supper. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Radishes. Lettuce. 

Graham Muffins. Nut Butter. 

Fruit Salad. 
Milk. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. 
Rolled Oat Porridge Served with Dates and Cream. 

Figs, Nuts. 

Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream of Bean Soup. 

Scalloped Com. Creamed Onions. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Vegetable Salad. 

Ice Cream. 

Supper. 

Rice. 

Fruit Gems. Butter. 

Banana Apple Salad, Cream Dressing. 

Fruit Cake. 



Menus * 345 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Rolled Wheat Porridge Served with Figs. 
Poached Eggs. Com Muffins. 

Butter. 
Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream Vegetable Soup. 

Meat Substitute. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. Celery Nut Salad. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Fruit Marvel. 

Supper. 

Potatoes Baked. 

Celery. Sliced or Cold Canned Tomatoes. 

Fruit Bread. Peanut Butter. 

Cup Custard Served with Peach Sauce. 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. 
Cream of Wheat Served with Sliced Bananas. 

Nuts. Figs. 
Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream Yellow Split Pea Soup. 
Potatoes Steamed with Jackets On. 

Vegetable Salad. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Nut Custard Served with Date$. 



246 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Supper. 

Creamed Peas. 

Radishes. Tomatoes. 

Muffins. Butter. 

Steeped Peaches. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. 
Egg Omelet. Com Muffins. 

Dates. Butter. 
Cocoa. 

Dinner. 

Cream Spanish Bean Soup. 

Vegetarian Turkey. Macaroni and Cheese. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Fruit Salad. 

Supper. 

Creamed Carrots. 

Vegetable Salad. 

Com Bread. Butter. 

Prune Whip. 

Milk. 

RAW FOOD MENUS. 

These menus are not an evidence of the author's being an 
advocate of the raw food diet ; however, the fact remains that 
many of our foods, subjected to scorching, intense heat in the 
process of their preparation^ would serve the ptu-pose of food 
to a more complete degree while raw, than after they undergo 
to some extent chemical dissolution because of the effect of 
the heat applied to them in cooking. 



n 



Menus 247 

The raw food "fad," as the public is prone to label it, is not 
without its admirers and devotees, who are sane, intelligent 
people. In the author's lecturing tours he has come in person- 
al contact with many of these people, and these menus are the 
result of their urgent requests. 

The author has given the raw food diet thorough, impartial 
tests. The results from these tests and the information gained 
from personal observations made upon hundreds of pa- 
tients, living exclusively upon raw foods at a health institution 
(these patients almost without exception improved), furnishes 
sufficient evidence that the body can be properly nourished on 
raw foods, and at a great saving of time, labor, and money. 

The adoption of the raw food diet in the home means the 
emancipation of women from kitchen drudgeries, since a few 
minutes suffice to prepare a meal for a large family. 

The greatest difficulty is to overcome the life-established 
deep-seated appetite for cooked foods. This, however, requires 
but a few weeks, provided the participants are interested and in 
sympathy with the idea, but it is futile to insist upon feeding 
people on raw foods, if they in turn, determinedly insist upon 
having the ordinary cooked bill of fare. 

To those interested, the author would suggest that in be- 
ginning the diet, one or two meals each day be composed of 
raw foods. This will give the system the opportimity of 
adjusting itself to the change. Otherwise one may experience 
hunger and a languid, unsatisfied craving. Thorough masti- 
cation must be insisted upon, otherwise the merits of the 
diet are defeated. 

The recipes for all dishes mentioned in the menus will be 
found in this book, unless so simple in character that an expla- 
nation is unnecessary. 



248 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Baked graham and corn breads have been included, but these 
may be replaced by the unfired breads and flakes whenever 
desirable. 

The flakes mentioned in the menus are the common rolled 
oat and wheat flakes on the market. (Quaker Oats, Petti John, 
etc.) These are equal to the much advertised raw health flakes, 
for which exorbitant prices are asked. 

A raw food table should always be supplied with an oil cruet, 
containing either cottonseed oil, olive or nut oil (highly-re- 
fined), a dish of one or two kinds of fresh fruits and a dish 
of mixed nuts, in addition to the regular menu. 

If the cost will not permit the use of fresh fruits, supply the 
cheaper evaporated fruits and prepare as directed for steeping 
dried fruits. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast 

Fresh Fruit 

Raw Eggs, Any Style. 

Wheat Flakes. Dates. Figs. 

Milk. 

Luncheon. 

Appl6 Nut Salad, Cream Dressing. 

Celery. Cheese. 

Entire Wheat Bread. 

Honey. Butter. 

Bananas with Cream. 

Dinner. 

Shredded Nuts. Celery Salad. 

Fruit Bread. Butter. 

Ice Cream. 

Milk. 



Menus 249 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Sliced Bananas and Dates with Cream. 

Graham Muffins. Honey. 

English Walnuts. Figs. 

Luncheon. 

Vegetable Salad, with Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Berries with Cream. 

Dinner. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Com Bread. Butter. 

Vegetable Salad. 

Figs with Cream. 

Eggnog. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Grapes. 

Eggs Raw, Any Style. 

Fruit Gems. Honey. 

' NutB. 

Luncheon. 

Lettuce Salad, with Oil Dressing. 
Entire Wheat Bread. Nut Butter. 
Peaches and Cream. 
Fruit Juice. 

Dinner. 

Cheese Shredded. 
Vegetable Salad. 



250 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Graham Bread. Butter. 

Fruit Marvel. 

Milk. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fresh Fruit. 

Rolled Wheat Flakes with Dates. 

Nuts. Milk. 

Luncheon. 

Carrot Salad. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Peach Marmalade. 

Dinner. 

Shredded Nuts. 

Celery Salad. 

Com Gems. Butter. 

Figs. Dates. 

Milk. 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Oranges. 

Whipped Eggs. 

Wheat Flakes. Cream. 

Figs. Nuts. 

Luncheon. 

Summer Salad. 

Radishes, Ripe Olives. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter, 

Fruit Trifle, 



Menus 251 



Dinner. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Fruit Bread. Butter. 

Celery. Nuts. 

Eggnog. 

FRIDAY. 
Breakfast. 

Wheat Flakes. Dates. 

Sliced Bananas. 

Milk. 

Luncheon. 

Cream Slaw. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Prune Whip. 

Nuts. Figs. 

Dinner. 

Cold Oysters. 

Celery Nut Salad. 

Graham Muffins. Butter. 

Fruit Salad. 

Milk. 

SATURDAY. 
Breakfast 

Fresh Fruit. 
Egg Creem. 
Oat Flakes. Cream. 

Nuts. 

Luncheon* 

Apple Nut Salad. 

Entire Wheat Bread. Butter. 

Steeped Apricots. Cream. 



252 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Dinner. 

Banana Nut Salad. 

Fruit Gems. Honey. 

Shredded Carrots. 

Dates. Nuts. 

Milk. 



CHAPTER XXX. 

CANNING FRUITS. 



BECAUSE of the low nutritive value of fruits some people 
are inclined to underestimate their value. The true worth 
of a food cannot be determined by the nourishment it yields ; 
its dietetic value must be taken into consideration. Hence, 
with fruits, the flavor, the sugar, the acids, and the residue 
fruits supply which encourages normal intestinal action, are 
points in their favor. Most fruits are rich in potash and soda 
salts. The fruit acids have a solvent power upon other foods 
and are often an aid to digestion, if not taken in excess. 
The acid fruits are cooling and refreshing and have a tonic 
and purifying effect upon the system. In the canned product 
these qualities are somewhat lessened, but in the winter sea- 
son when the diet is apt to be restricted in variety, or cost 
prohibits the use of fresh fruits and vegetables, then it is that 
the canned fruits are so acceptable and valuable. 

The thrifty housewife always takes pride and finds satis- 
faction in the canning of fruits during the summer season 
when they are cheap, and thereby makes ample provision for 
her family during the winter months. The principles of can- 
ning are so simple and the cost is so moderate that with very 
little labor and time many quarts of fruit can be preserved 
in this manner. 

The Requisites of Canning. 

The most essential things in the process of canning fruits 
and vegetables arc the complete sterilization of the food and 

253 



254 Th0 Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

all utensils, and the sealing of the sterilized food to exclude 
all bacteria, germs and spores. 

Bacteria, yeasts, and molds exist everywhere. The air, the 
soil, all vee^etables and fruits are teeming with myriads of living 
micro-organisms. Many of these are harmless, but the de- 
composition of all foods is attended by the developing and 
multiplying of bacteria and molds. Thus the decay, the 
growth of molds, and the fermentation of fruits and vegetables 
are the outcome of bacterial action. These micro-organisms 
are destroyed at different temperatures of heat. Some are 
killed at a very moderate temperature, while others are capable 
of resisting a high degree of heat for a prolonged period. 
Some bacteria found in vegetables seem almost impervious to 
heat, necessitating continued and extended cooking to insure 
their destruction. 

Yeasts and nearly all bacteria require oxygen for their 
development; however, there are bacteria that develop with- 
out the assistance of oxygen. If these anaerobic bacteria, as 
they are called, are sealed in a can, decomposition will result 
even though the sealing is perfect. Again, if the bacteria are 
of the spore product species, continued and prolonged cooking 
and then recooking may be necessary. However, this only 
applies to the canning of vegetables. See page 258 for canning 
vegetables. 

Sterilization. 

To sterilize anything it is necessary to subject it to an an- 
tiseptic solution or to heat it for a time. Heat is the means 
of sterilization used in canning fruit. The cans, lids, spoons^ 
strainer, funnel, should be placed in a kettle or boiler in cold 
or warm water and gradually heated to the boiling point, and 
boiled for fifteen minutes. Since smooth, hard surfaces into 
which the bacteria cannot penetrate are easily sterilized the 



Canning Fruits 255 

boiling temperature for fifteeen minutes will serve for all 
utensils. The cans and lids should be removed irom the hot 
water and used immediately thereafter. The length of time 
for boiling fruits is from five to thirty minutes according to 
the kind and ripeness. 

Canning Fruits in Syrups. 

The author advises against this much practiced method. 
The possibilities of the fruit keeping are not materially in- 
creased, and if any of the fruit chances to spoil the sugar 
used is also wasted. It is more economical, and the fruit is 
more wholesome, if canned without the addition of sugar. 
Open and sweeten the fruit several hours before wishing to 
serve. This permits the sugar to permeate the fruit, and there 
is the absence of minute crystals which form in fruits canned 
in syrups. 

TIME FOR COOKING FRUITS. 

Peaches. 

Peaches should be cooked for ten minutes after they begin 
to boil, if cut in halves and pits are removed. When left 
whole cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, or if unripe cook 
until the peaches can be easily pierced with a toothpick. 
Skim the fruit carefully and frequently while it is cooking. 
Put into jars and seal immediately. 

Pears. 

Cook them from ten to twenty minutes after they begin 
to boil, according to size and ripeness. If they are firm cook 
until they can be easily pierced with a- fork or toothpick. 
Skim the fruit frequently while it is cooking. Put into 
sterilized jars and seal immediately. 



256 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Quinces. 

Rub the fruit with a coarse, rough cloth, wash, pare, quarter, 
and core. Put over the fire in a liberal quantity of water and 
cook until tender enough to pierce with a fork. Drain the 
liquid from the quinces into another kettle, and tp each pint 
of liquid add one cupful of sugar, dissolve and boil for ten 
minutes. Place the fruit in the boiling syrup and heat for a 
few minutes. Fill sterilized jars with the fruit and the syrup, 
and seal immediately. 

Half quinces and half apples if canned together are splen- 
did. The apples absorb the quince flavor rendering the 
quinces milder and the apples richer in flavor. The apples 
must be cooked separately as they require less time. 

Plums. 

If the skin is to be removed from the plums, plunge them 
into boiling water for a few seconds to loosen the peel. When 
the skins are left on, prick them with a fork ; this will prevent 
bursting. Cook the fruit five minutes after it begins to boil. 
Use a large kettle and cook only three or four quarts at one 
time. Add one cupful of water to every two quarts of the 
plums, and skim frequently while cooking. Put into sterilized 
jars and seal immediately. 

Raspberries. 

Wash them thoroughly. Add one cupful of water to two 
quarts of fruit, and heat slowly. Cook for ten minutes after 
they begin to boil. Put into sterilized jars and seal immedi- 
ately. 

Blackberries. 

Cook same length of time as raspberries, adding one cupful 
of water to two quarts of fruit. 



Canning Fruits 257 

Cherries. 

Wash the cherries, and remove the stones if desired. To 
four quarts of the cherries, add one cupful of water and 
cook for ten minutes after they begin to boil. Skim care- 
fully while cooking. Put into sterilized glass cans immedi- 
ately after they have finished cooking and seal. 

Currants. 

Wash and cook the length of time given for raspberries, 
adding one pint of water to two quarts of fruit. 

Blueberries. 

Wash thoroughly, add one pint of water to two quarts of 
blueberries, and cook for fifteen minutes after they begin to 
boil. Skim carefully, put into jars and seal immediately. 

Grapes. 

Wash, add one cupful of water to two quarts of grapes, 
and cook them ten minutes after they begin to boil. Skim 
and add sugar if desired. The grapes may be canned, in- 
cluding the seeds and skins or they may be pressed through a 
sieve td remove the seeds and hulls, and use the pulp for pie. 

Gooseberries. 

Green gooseberries should be cooked fifteen minutes after 
they begin to boil. Add one cupful of water to every two 
quarts of fruit. Skim carefully while they are cooking and 
seal in sterilized glass jars immediately. 

Rhubarb. 

Cook same as gooseberries, or rhubarb and green gooseber- 
ries may be canned raw. For rhubarb, select tender stems, 
wash thoroughly, cut in two-inch lengths, put into glass jars, 
cover with cold water that has previously been boiled, allow 
to stand ten minutes, drain the water oflF, re-fill jars with cold 



258 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

sterilized water and seal. Gooseberries may be treated in 
the same manner. 

Canning Fruits Cooked in Steam or Water Bath. 

A steam cooker in which ten or more glass jars can be 
placed is a most satisfactory article in which to cook the fruit 
in the jars. Sterilize the jars, fill them with the washed 
fruit. Pack the fruit tight by jarring the cans on a heavy 
pad or on several folded towels. Allow the cans to remain un- 
covered, place them in the steamer, fill the reservoir of the 
steamer with cold water, put the steamer over the fire and 
heat slowly. Allow fifteen or twenty minutes for heating, and 
then cook the fruit the length of time given in the recipes for 
cooking the fruit in kettles. 

If a water bath is employed, use a wash boiler. Put straw, 
or a heavy layer of cloth in the bottom, set the filled jars in. 
and fill the boiler with cold water until it reaches the necks of 
the cans. Heat gradually to the boiling point, and cook double 
the length of time given for cooking fruits in kettles. Allow 
the jars to remain in the steamer or boiler a few minutes 
after removing from the fire to prevent the jars bursting 
when the cold air strikes them. 

Canning Vegetables. 

Beans, Peas, and Corn. 
' Fill tin or glass cans with the vegetables, cook in steam 
cooker or water bath for four hours, seal immediately. Forty- 
eight hours later loosen the covers, re-heat, and cook two 
hours, and re-seal. The second cooking will destroy the 
bacteria, which developed from the spores that were unaf- 
fected by the first cooking. The second cooking is not always 
necessary, but it is a precaution worth taking. If glass jars 
are used, pack them in sawdust, or oats, or wrap them in 
paper to exclude the light. 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

EXERCISING. 



T'iE value of exercise can only be realized by indulging in 
it in some systematic form for a time. Exercises that 
bring into action the chest and abdominal muscles are of vital 
importance, since these muscles control and assist to a 
great degree the vital organs in performing their functions. 
Hence the necessity of keeping the chest and abdominal mus- 
cles and also the muscles of the back, strong and well developed 
if one expects to possess the best and highest degree of health. 
In fact every muscle of the body should be given some daily 
exercise in order to maintain a symmetrical development, but 
the chest and abdominal muscles need particular attention 
since they are the least used by people of sedentary habits. 
The set of exercises given in this chapter for the abdominal 
muscles, when taken daily, will not only aid and develop a 
healthier digestion, but will be a great aid in keeping the 
bowels in an active, healthy condition, which is of paramount 
importance to health. 

In exercising any part of the body, or any set of muscles, 
care should be taken not to adopt exercises of a nature that 
will strain or overtax the body. 

Probably one of the very best times to take exercises is just 
after arising in the morning; this arouses the circulation and 
fills one with a feeling of vigor and energy. 

The length of time that should be given to exercise each day 
will vary with different individuals, but it is safe to say that at 
least one hour in the morning and a few minutes occasionally 
during the day, when time will permit, should be spent in this 

259 



260 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

manner, especially by people of sedentary habits. It 
keeps the muscular system in a healthy normal condition, 
and gives the nerves a healthy active tone. 

Exercise should always be taken in a well-ventilated room, or 
which is still better, in the open when the weather will permit. 
Begin taking a moderate amount, and gradually increase the 
amount until at least forty-five minutes or one hour is spent in 
exercising. 

Those who are not in the habit of exercising, will find that 
for the first few days the muscles will feel sore and stiff, 
but do not allow this feeling to discourage you. It is an 
evidence that those muscles have not been used, but have 
been allowed to remain inactive. The sore uncomfortable feel- 
ing will disappear in a few days, and immediately thereafter 
one can notice the muscles gradually increasing in strength, 
firmness, and size. Of course, to obtain gratifying results one 
must enter into the exercises with the spirit of pleasure, and 
with the feeling that the time taken is most profitably spent. 

One should always be careful not to take exercise in an over- 
heated room, but on the other hand, one should not be in a cold 
or chilly room where a feeling of discomfort is experienced. 
Be as free from clothes as possible, and breathe deeply. 

Exercise No. 1. 

Place the hands on the hips. Stand with the heels together, 
the toes slightly turned outward. Bend as far to the left, 
then as far to the right, as possible. Continue bending alter- 
nately from left to right until fatigued, or at least twenty times. 

Exercise No. 2. 

Stand in position as for exercise No. 1. Bend as far for- 
ward, and then as far backward, as possible. Exhale as you 
bend forward and empty the lungs as much as possible. Then 
as you begin to rise to bend backward, begin to gradually in- 



Exercising 261 

hale and fill the lungs as full as possible. Do not allow the 
knees to bend in this exercise, and you will find it exceedingly 
beneficial for the thighs and lungs as well as the abdomen. 

Exercise No. 3. 

Hold the arms horizontal and at right angles, being careful 
to keep them in this position during the exercise. First turn 
the body as far to the left and then as far to the right as pos- 
sible. Continue this exercise for at least twenty-five times, or 
until fatigued. 

Exercise No. 4. 

Place the hands on the hips. Stand with the heels together, 
the toes slightly apart. Bend as far forward as possible, then 
turn to the left, making as large a circle as possible with the 
head by continuing to allow the body to turn on around until 
you have made a complete circle. Continue this exercise five 
or six times. Then reverse and make the circle by turning to 
the right. 

Exercise No. 5. 

This exercise can be highly recommended for any one suf- 
fering from constipation. 

Get on the floor on the hands and knees (large room or 
hallway is necessary), then proceed to crawl as a child would 
do, taking as long steps as possible and bringing the knees as 
far up under the chest as possible. Take at least seventy- 
five or a hundred steps across the room in this manner, count- 
ing each time you bring one of the knees forward a step. This 
exercise brings nearly every muscle of the body into action, 
and is invaluable as an exercise for the cure of constipation. 
Of course in accomplishing a permanent cure for constipation 
it is absolutely necessary to use a proper diet and discard all 
highly seasoned foods, and foods of a constipating character. 



■i 



262 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Exercise No. 6. 

Lie on the left side, then bring the right knee as nearly up to 
the chin as possible, keeping the left leg perfectly straight. It 
is well to place the right hand just below the knee and assist 
in drawing the knee up as far as possible. Take this exercise 
five or six times. Then turn on the opposite side and take the 
same exercise with the left leg the same number of times. This 
exercise can be highly recommended for constipation, and can 

be taken nicely lying on the bed. 

■> 

Exercise No. 7. 

Place the hands on the hips and proceed to raise the left foot 
as high to the side as possible. Then alternate with the right 
foot, continue raising the feet alternately for at least twenty- 
five times. 

Exercise No. 8. 

Place the hands on the hips and proceed to raise the feet as 
high in front of the body as possible, first with the left alter- 
nating with the right, and continue this exercise at least 
twenty-five times. 

Exercise No. 9. 

Reverse Exercise No. 8 and lift the feet as far to the rear as 
possible, keeping the legs perfectly straight. 

The list of exercises which the author has given for the 
strengthening of the abdominal muscles, if taken each day, 
and if indulged in, in a pleasant, healthful frame of mind, are 
bound to procure pleasing and satisfactory results, and will, 
without a question, increase the digestive and assimilative 
powers, as well as assist the bowels in the process of elimi- 
nation. 



Exercising 263 

Exercises for the Chest. 

It is impossible to emphasize too strongly the value of a 
well-developed chest and a strong, healthy pair of lungs. And 
in order to possess these it is necessary to give some attention 
to deep breathing and exercise. Of course one should always 
acquire the habit of breathing full and deep. If this is done, 
together with right living, one needs have little fear of ever 
suffering from weak lungs, bronchial trouble, or consumption. 

Exercise No. 1. 

In taking this exercise use dumb-bells or weights, two flat 
irons will answer the purpose admirably. Of course the weight 
should be governed by one's strength. 

First position: Stand erect with the weights in the hands 
and the hands hanging at the sides, then bend forward (keeping 
the knees straight) until the weights touch the ground or floor 
six inches in front of the toes. Then raise to an erect position 
with the arms hanging at the sides. Then bring the weights 
up to a level with the shoulders. Then force them up at arms 
length. Let them down to shoulders again, then down to the 
sides as in first position. Continue this exercise until fatigued 
This is an excellent chest exercise, and it also brings nearly 
every muscle of the body into active play. 

Exercise No. 2. 

Stand erect with the heels close together, the toes slightly 
apart. Have the arms hanging at the sides. Then raise the 
arms alternately to a perpendicular position above the head, 
keeping the arms rigid all the time. Raise each arm at least 
twenty times. 

Exercise No. 3. 

Lie at full length on the floor, face down. Place the hands 
on the floor near the shoulders, then raise the body at arms' 



264 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

length just allowing the hands and toes to remain on the floor, 
then let the chest down until it touches the floor. Repeat this 
exercise until the arms are tired. 

Exercise No. 4. 

Lie at full length flat on the back, fold hands on chest. 
Raise to a half -sitting position, then let your head and shoulders 
down to th5 floor again. "^Raise yourself in this manner until 
fatigued. This is an excellent exercise for the abdominal mus- 
cels as well as the chest. 

Exercise No. 5. 

Stand erect, allow the arms to hang at the sides. Tense the 
muscles of the arms by clinching the fists. Then raise one 
shoulder, at the same time allowing the other to drop. Raise 
the shoulders alternately in this manner as high as possible at 
least twenty times. Then raise the shoulders together at least 
that often. Then throw the shoulders as far forward and 
as far back as possible at least that often. 

These few exercises taken daily, together with deep breath- 
ing will accomplish wonders. 

The author would suggest that deep breathing be practiced 
while out walking. A good idea is to inhale while taking four 
or five steps, then hold the breath a few seconds, then exhale 
while taking four or five steps. By practicing deep breathing 
in this manner, in a short time one will become so accustomed to 
it that deep draughts of fresh air are inhaled unconsciously. 

Fresh air is one of God's natural invigorating, health-build- 
ing tonics ; and he furnishes it as full and free as his love ; so 
get all you can of it at all times while out of doors. Keep a 
good supply of it in your dining-room, in your library, and of 
all places, in your bed-room, for every one spends nearly one- 
third, and many one-half, of the time there. 



CHAPTER XXXIL 

COMPOSITION OF FOODS. 



THIS table is compiled from the analyses made and issued 
by the U. S. Department of Agriculture. The author 
uses this table because of its being generally accepted, and the 
work has not been influenced by selfish motives. 

The reports of analyses of foods made by individual chem- 
ists in private laboratories are in abundance to-day, but it can- 
not be said that the clear-eyed goddess "Truth" has much to 
do with the matter, because, for financial and selfish reasons, it 
is made to appear that certain foods are richer in certain 
food constituents than is really true. Certainly it must be con- 
ceded that the same product grown in different localities will 
show a great variation in the percentage of certain of the food 
elements. Two samples coming from the same source may 
show a slight variation, so an analysis must not be accepted as 
infallible in all instances even though it^ origin is from a re- 
liable source. 

The real value of foods does not by any means depend en- 
tirely upon their chemical composition. The ease wilh which 
they yield to digestion must be considered. A food may be rich 
in protein, as the lean portion of cured ham, but, because of its 
compact character and. the curing properties employed it may 
be difficult of digestion, and most unwholesome. 

"We live not upon what we eat but upon what we digest." 
All indigestible foods are a burden to the digestive and elimi- 
native organs, a waste and a poison to the system. 

265 



266 The Practical Hygieniv Preparation of Foods 



I I I i J 



6 nil am Bread 

White Bread 

Wbole-wbeat Bread. 

Bye Bread 

Cake 

KgftB and Dalr; Products : 

Hens' Eggs 

Batter 

Whole Milk 

Buttermilk 

Cheese, Fuil Cream. 

Ueati : 

Beef, (re«b : 

Round Steak 

Bump Steak 

Porterhouse Steak 

Sirloin Steak 

Rlba 

Loin '.','.'.'.'. 

Neck 

Shank. Fore 

L«" ...::::-;:::: 

Mutton : 

Loin Chop* 

Flank 

Les. Hind 



Ch^en, Brallara . . 

FUb: 

Cod, Dnntd 

Halibut 

Perch, Dreiied , . . . 

Shad. Whole 

Salmon, Canned . . - 



Cent. Cent. Cent riei. Cent. 



43.0 

36.0 
61.2 



4S.7 
4T.1 

38. B 



13.3 
J2.8 
18.4 



Composition of Foods 



ebellflih: 

Cfama 

Lobiteri'".'. '.'.!!'. '.'. 

Legames: 

BeBDi. DrlM ...... 

Beuis, StiiDg 

Pea». Dried 

Pew, Stie11i?d 

Vegetables (Fresh) : 

Potatoea 

PotatOM. Bireet . , . 

Tomatoei 

Splnaeb 

Faranlpa 

Onloni 

Celerj 

BMtH 

Turnip* 

Frult««, (Freab) : 

Bananaa 

Peara 

Lemona 

Ratpberrlea 

Btrairberriea 

Ffulta (Dried) : 

AprlcoU 

Datei 



Per Calo- 



10.0 

"iii'.o 



268 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 



, not Shelled: 
Walnuts, EogllBh . 

Pecans 

Brazil Nnta 

Almonds 

Peanuts 

Filberts 

HIckor; Suts 

Chestnuta, Drkd . 
Cocoannt. Prepared 



Cent. Cent. 



It must be remembered that all inedible portions of food, 
as skin and seeds of fruit, hulls of nuts, peel of vegetables, 
bone of meats, etc., entered into the above analysis as waste; 
also edible portions which were thrown away in preparation. 
It is interesting to notice the high percentage of the food value 
of nuts when the shell does not enter into the analysis. 



INDEX 

A 

Page 

All Grain 60 

Apples, Baked 213 

Apples and Bananas 214 

Apples and Cream 213 

Apples, Dried 214 

Apple La Pointe 213 

Apples and Quinces 215 

Apples and Raisins 214 

Apples Royal 212 

Apple Sauce 214 

Apples Steamed 213 

Apple Tapioca 223 

Apple Trifle 214 

Apricots with Cream 217 

Apricot La Pointe 217 

Apricot Marmalade 217 

Apricots and Prunes 217 

Apricots and Raisins 217 

Apricots, Steeped 217 

Apricot Tapioca 224 

Arrowroot 79 

Asparagus au Gratin 158 

Asparagus Points 157 

Asparagus Points Spanish Sauce 157 

Asparagus on Toast 157 

B 

Baby's Food and Care of Children 30 

Bananas and Apples 214 

Barley, Pearl 60 

Barley, Pearl 78 

Beans, Baked 167 

Beans, Buttered 165 

Beans, Buttered Green 167 

Beans, Creamed •. 165 

Beans, Creamed Green 167 

Beans, Creamed Green 169 

Beans and Corn 167 

Beans en Casserole 168 

Beans, German Baked 168 

Beans, Green 167 

269 



270 Thg Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Page 

Beant, Green, TennesMe Style 168 

Bean Loaf 166 

Beans, Marbled 166 

Bean Puree 166 

Beans, Spanish 165 

Beans Wax Piquant 168 

Beef a la Mode 94 

Beef Braising 94 

Beef en Fireless Cooker 93 

Beef, Cold 98 

Beef Loaf 12S 

Beef To Roast 93 

Beets, Buttered 154 

Beets, French 155 

Beets, Pickled 155 

Birds for Broiling 103 

Biscuit, Beaten 72 

Biscuit, Cream 71 

Biscuit, Soda 71 

Biscuit, Southern 71 

Blackberries, Canning 256 

Blackberry Trifle 224 

Blueberries, Canning 257 

Blueberry Trifle 224 

Boiled Dressing 180 

Bouillons . . , 86 

Braising 94 

Breads 62 

Bread, Corn, No. 1 70 

Bread, Corn, No. 2 70 

Bread, Corn, No. 3 70 

Bread, Date 67 

Bread, Fruit 67 

Bread, Graham Fruit 68 

Bread, Health 66 

Bread, Home Pride Graham 67 

Bread, Nut 67 

Bread, White 68 

Bread, White 68 

Bread, White 69 

Broiling Birds 103 

C 

Cabbage au Gratin 161 

Cabbage, Boiled 161 

Cabbage Imperial 160 

Cabbage Royal 160 

Cabbage, Steamed 161 



] 



Index 271 

Page 

Cake, Angel Food 200 

Cake, Aunt Katherinc's Sponge ^ 

Cake, Brazil Nut S? 

Cake, Bride's ^ 

Cake, Chocolate SJ; 

Cake, Chocolate (DeviFs Food) ^ 204 

Cake, Crumb ^* 

Cake, Economy Gold ^ 

Cake, Fairy Loaf ^* 

Cake, Fig Layer ^ 

Cake, Fruit ^5 

Cake, Golden Layer ^f 

Cake. Hygiea Sponge ^ 

Cake, Layer J^ 

Cake, Nut Fruit ^ 

Cake, Nut Sponge ^\ 

Cake, Orange Chocolate ^ 

Cake, Pound ^ 

Cake, Royal Fruit gJ5 

Cake, Royal Loaf ^2 

Cake, Silver Loaf ^3 

Cake, Spice ^ 

Cake, Sunshine fw 

Oirrots, Baked }50 

Carrots, Creamed J^^ 

Carrots, Mashed *|0 

Carrots and Peas ]^ 

Carrots, Raw JjS 

Carrots, Shredded 149 

Carrots, Shredded, and Cheese 150 

Carrots and Turnips 150 

Candies • • • ^S 

Canning Fruits ^^d 

Canning Vegetables -^58 

Cauliflower J^y 

Cauliflower, Buttered {58 

Cauliflower, Creamed 158 

Cauliflower with Tomato Sauce 158 

Celery |59 

Celery Creamed |^^ 

Celery au Gratin 15^ 

Celery and Peas j^O 

Celery on Toast 15v 

Cheese and Carrots » 15^ 

Cherries, Canning 257 

Cherry Tapioca ^ 

Cherry Trifle ^ 

Chicken, Broiled JOo 

Chicken, Creamed 10/ 



272 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Page 

Chicken Croquettes 109 

Chicken with Dumplings 107 

Chicken en Casserole 106 

Chicken in Potato Baskets 108 

Chicken, Jellied 108 

Chicken Pie 108 

Chicken Potpie 107 

Chicken, Roast 106 

Chicken, Smothered 106 

Chicken, Steamed 106 

Chicken, Stewed 107 

Chops, Breaded 100 

Chops, Broiled Veal 99 

Chowder, Clam 88 

Chowder, Potato 88 

Cocoa 235 

Coffee 234 

Cookies, Nut 207 

Cookies, Royal Fruit 206 

Cookies, Sunshine 207 

Consomme, Julienne 87 

Corn and Beans 167 

Corn on Cob 147 

Com, Creamed 148 

Corn, Escalloped 148 

Corn, Roast 148 

Corn Starch Float 221 

Crabs 119 

Crabs, Cracked 121 

Crabs a la Patrick 122 

Croutons 78 

Currant Trifle 224 

Custard, Baked 219 

Custard, Boiled 219 

Custard, Bread 219 

Custard, Cocoanut 220 

Custard, Frozen 230 

Custard, Nut 220 

Custard, Peach 219 

Custard, Rice 220 

Custard, Tapioca 220 

Cutlets 97 

Cutlets, Hamburger 98 

D 

Dandelion 162 

Desserts 211 

Dressing, Boiled 180 

Dressing, Plain 122 



Index 273 

Page 

Dressing, Oyster 122 

Duck, Smothered .111 

Duck, Steamed 111 

Duck, Tame or Wild : 110 

Dumplings, Meat 76 

E 

Eggs •. 135 

Eggs a la Patrick 140 

Eggs, Baked 138 

Egg Cream 139 

Eggs, Deviled 140 

Eggs, Hard Boiled 138 

Egg Lemon 139 

Eggnog 139 

Egg Omelet 137 

Eggs, Poached 137 

Eggs, Raw 136 

Eggs, Royal 139 

Eggs, Scrambled 137 

Eggs, Sherred 140 

Eggs, Soft Boiled 136 

Eggs, Steam Poached 137 

Eggs on Toast .' 138 

Egg Yolks, Hard Boiled 79 

Endive Tart Sauce 163 

F 

Farina 60 

Fish 1 12 

Fish, Baked 113 

Fish, Boiled .114 

Fish, Broiled 114 

Fish Croquettes 115 

Fish, Fried 115 

Fish, Planked 115 

Fish, Salted 113 

Fish, Steamed 114 

Fowl, How to Truss 103 

Fluff Boiled Dressing 180 

French Dressing 181 

Fruit Marvel 225 

G 

Gems, Bran 72 

Gems, Cream Fruit 73 

Gems, Economy 73 

Gems, Graham ' 73 

Gems, Polenti Fruit ^ 73 



274 The Practical Hygienic Preforaium of Foods 



72 

110 

Canning 2S7 

Graham Floor 60 

Gnhom Bread 63 

Grapes^ Ouming 2S7 

Graviesi Meal 134 

I 

loe^ Bladdterrjr 232 

Ice Cream 230 

Ice Cream, Heahb 230 

Ice Cream, Nut and Froh 231 

Ice, Raspberry 232 

Icings, Cake . . . ; 208 

Icing, Chocolate 208 

Icing, Cold 208 

Icirg; Fruit 208 

Icing, Lemon 208 

Icing, Steamed 208 

K 
Kale 162 

L 

Lamb and Peas 102 

Lemon Salad Dressing 180 

Legumes 164 

Lentils 171 

Liver 103 

Liver, Braised 103 

Liver, Broiled 104 

Lobster 119 

Lobster, Baked 121 

Lobster, Broiled 121 

Lobster Cocktail 121 

Lobster Croquettes 121 

M 

Macaroni 174 

Macaroni and Cheese 175 

Macaroni au Gratin 176 

Macaroni Polenta 175 

Macaroni, Tomato 175 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 175 

Macaroons , 208 

Mayonnaise Dressing 178 

Mayonnaise Fluff Dressing . ,. 179 

Meat, Broiling 92 

Meat, Cooking 91 



Index 275 

Page 

Meat, Roasting 93 

Meat, Selecting 90 

Meat, Steaming 95 

Meringue 195 

Milk 233 

Milk, Modification of 32 

Milk, Supplying 37 

Mince Meat 196 

Muffins, Blackberry 74 

Muffins, Blueberry , 74 

Muffins, Corn 74 

Muffins, Graham 74 

Muffins, Huckleberry 74 

Muffins, Prune 74 

Muffins, Raspberry 74 

Mulberry Trifle 224 

Mush 61 

Mutton 101 

Mutton Chops, Broiled 102 

Mutton, Cold, Sliced 103 

Mutton Creamed 102 

Mutton, Roast Saddle 101 

Mutton, Steamed 102 

Mutton, Steamed Leg 102 

N 

Noodles 79 

Nuts and Nut Butters 188 

Nuts, Shredded 78 

O 

Okra • 163 

Olive Oil Dressing •. 179 

Omelet, Cheese 138 

Omelet, Cream 138 

Omelet, Nut 138 

Onions, Baked 154 

Onions, Creamed 153 

Onions Spanish Style 154 

Onions, Smothered 154 

Onions on Toast 154 

Onions and Tomatoes 151 

Oranges 219 

Oysters 118 

Oysters, Baked 118 

Oysters, Escalloped 119 

Oysters, Fried 119 

Oysters, Raw 118 

Oyster Stew 87 



276 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

P 

Page 

Parsnips, Buttered 156 

Parsnips, Creamed 156 

Paste, PuflF 192 

Peaches 225 

Peaches 215 

Peaches, Canned ; .215 

Peach la Pointe 216 

Peach Marmalade 216 

Peach Prune Marmalade 216 

Peaches and Raisins 216 

Peaches, Steeped 215 

Peach Tapioca 223 

Peach Trifle 215 

Pears 255 

Peas, Buttered 169 

Peas, Canned 170 

Peas and Carrots 149 

Peas and Celery 170 

Peas, Creamed 169 

Pea Loaf 171 

Peas and New Potatoes 169 

Pea Puree 170 

Peas and Tomatoes 170 

Pies 190 

Pie Crust 190 

Pie, How to Make a Double Crust 191 

Pie, Apple Cream 192 

Pie, Apple Custard 192 

Pie, Apple Plain 192 

Pie, Boiled Custard 194 

Pie, Berry ." 193 

Pie, Cherry 193 

Pie, Custard 193 

Pie, Grape Fruit 196 

Pie, Lemon Custard 195 

Pie, Mince 196 

Pie, Orange 195 

Pie Paste, Graham Flour 191 

Pie Paste, Plain 191 

Pic, Peach 193 

Pie, Pumpkin Custard 194 

Pie, Pumpkin 194 

Pie, Strawberry 193 

Pigeons Ill 

Pineapple, Frozen 232 

Pineapple Tapioca 224 

Plums 256 

Pot Pie 1 76 



Index 277 

Page 

Potatoes 143 

Potatoes, Baked 145 

Potatoes, Baked Special \, 145 

Potatoes Baked in Half Shell 147 

Potatoes, Baked Sweet 147 

Potato Balls 146 

Potatoes Cooked with Jackets on 145 

Potatoes, Creamed 145 

Potatoes, Duchess 146 

Potatoes, Mashed 144 

Potatoes, New, with Green Peas 169 

Potatoes, Riced 145 

Potatoes, Scalloped 145 

Potatoes, Smothered 146 

Potatoes Smothered with Onions 147 

Potatoes, Steamed 147 

Potatoes, Oyster Blanket 146 

Poultry, How to Select 104 

Poultry, Cleaning and Dressing 105 

Prune Pudding 218 

Prunes, Steamed ' » 217 

Prunes, Steeped 217 

Prune Tapioca 224 

Prune Trifle 218 

Prune Whip ; 218 

Pudding, Apple 223 

Pudding, Chocolate 221 

Pudding, Corn Starch 220 

Pudding, Cream Fruit 222 

Pudding, Elberta 223 

Pudding, Fruit 221 

Pudding, Hygiea Fruit 222 

Pudding, Raspberry 224 

Pudding, Rice Cream 222 

Pudding, Rice Raisin 222 

Pudding, Royal Fruit 222 

Pudding, Snow 221 

Q 

Quail Ill 

Quinces * 256 

Quince Tapioca 224 

Quince Trifle 224 

R 

Raspberry Pudding 224 

Raspberry, Canning 256 

Rhubarb 257 

Rice, Bermuda 173 



278 The Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Pagt 

Rice and Cheese 173 

Rice Condign 174 

Rice and Macaroni 172 

Rice, Spanish Style 173 

Rice, Southern Style 174 

Rice Uniq^ie 174 

Rolled Oat Drops 207 

Rolls, Luncheon 71 

Rolls, Royal Fruit 70 

Rutabagas 156 

S 

Salads 177 

Salad, Asparagus 181 

Salad, Cabbage 183 

Salad, Cauliflower Bouquet 184 

Salad, Cauliflower Comment 184 

Salad, Celery Apple 182 

Salad, Celery Nut 184 

Salad, Celery Pea 183 

Salad, Chicken 184 

Salad, Cucumber 184 

Salad, Daisy 187 

Salad Dressing 178 

Salad, Egg 187 

Salad. Fruit 225 



Salad, 

Salad, 

Salad 

Salad, 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad 

Salad, 

Salad 

Salad 



Fruit 225 

Fruit 225 

Fruit 226 

Fruit 226 

Fruit 226 

Garnishings 178 

Green Onion 184 

Lettuce 181 

Lobster 186 

Meat 185 

Miscellaneous 185 

Ox Tongue 185 

Oyster 186 

Salmon 186 

Shrimp 186 

String Bean 181 

Summer 183 

Sweatbread 186 

Tomato 182 

Tomato Floweret 183 

Tomato Nut 183 

Vegetable 182 

Watercress 181 



Index 279 

Page 

Salad, Watercress and Tomato 181 

Salmon Croquettes 116 

Salmon Loaf 116 

Salsify, Creamed 161 

Salsify Oysters 162 

Sauces 130 

Sauce, Apricot 227 

Sauce, Blackberry 227 

Sauce, Brown 131 

Sauce, Cranberry 228 

Sauce, Currant 227 

Sauce, Drawn Butter 133 

Sauce, Fish 131 

Sauces, Fruit ' 227 

Sauce, Gooseberry 228 

Sauce, Hollandaise ' 134 

Sauce, Horse-Radish 132 

Sauce, Lobster 133 

Sauce, Mint 132 

Sauce, Mushroom 131 

Sauce, Mustard 132 

Sauce, Olive 132 

Sauce, Onion 131 

Sauce, Oyster 133 

Sauce, Peach 227 

Sauce, Pineapple 228 

Sauce, Plum 228 

Sauce, Quince 228 

Sauce, Raspberry 227 

Sauce, Strawberry 227 

Sauce, Tart 134 

Sauce, Tomato 132 

Sauce, White 131 

Sausage, Imitation 127 

Shad Roe, Baked 117 

Shad Roe, Broiled 117 

Shad Roe en Casserole 117 

Shad Roe Croquettes 117 

Sherbet, Apple 231 

Sherbei Apricot 231 

Sherbet, Peach 231 

Sherbet, Strawberry 231 

Shrimp 119 

Slaw, Cooked Cream 160 

Soups , 75 

Soup, Bean Potato 82 

Soup, Beef Broth a la Anglaise 84 

Soup, Beef Broth with Barley 84 

Soup, Beef Broth with Rice 84 



r'< " m. - _^ , 



280 Th$ Practical Hygienic Preparation of Foods 

Page 

Soup, Brown Potato 82 

Soup, Chicken Gumbo 86 

Soup, Chicken Mullagatawney 85 

Soup, Chicken Okra 85 

Soup, Chicken, Spanish 85 

Soup, Cream of Asparagus 81 

Soup, Cream of Celery 81 

Soup, Cream of Chicken 86 

Soup, Cream of Clams 87 

Soup, Cream of Com 81 

Soup, Cream of Kidney Bean 80 

Soup, Cream of Lima Bean 80 

Soup, Cream of Lobster 88 

Soup, Cream of Navy Bean 80 

Soup, Cream of Onion 83 

Soup, Cream of Polenti 82 

Soup, Cream of Tomato 82 

Soup, Cream of Turkey 86 

Soup, Cream of Vegetable 83 

Soup, Cream of Yellow Split Pea 80 

Soup, English Beef 84 

Soup, Puree of Kidney Bean 81 

Soup, Puree of Lentil , 81 

Soup, Puree of Lima Bean 81 

Soup, Puree of Navy Bean 81 

Soup, Puree of Split Pea 81 

Sour Cream Dressing 179 

Sour Dock 162 

Spaghetti 176 

Spinach » . . . 152 

Spinach Chartreuse 153 

Spinach, German Style 152 

Spinach au Gratin 153 

Spinach with Lemon Dressing 153 

Squash, Baked 157 

Squash, Buttered 156 

Squabs Ill 

Steak, Blanketed 97 

Steak, to Broil 92 

Steak, Coddled 96 

Steak, Hamburger 97 

Steak. Planked 97 

Steak, Scuffled 96 

Steak, How to Serve 93 

Steak Smothered with Onions 96 

Stew, Beef 98 

Stew, Oyster 87 

Strawberrv Trifle 224 



Page 

Sweetbreads 104 

Sweetbreads, Baked 104 

Sweetbreads, Creamed . *. 104 

T 

Tapioca, Pearl 79 

Tea 234 

Tomatoes, Baked 151 

Tomatoes, Creamed 151 

Tomatoes and Onions 151 

Tomatoes and Peas 170 

Tomatoes, Scalloped 151 

Tomatoes, Sliced 152 

Turkey 109 

Turkey Croquettes 109 

Turkey, Roast 109 

Turnips and Carrots 150 

Turnips, Creamed 156 

Turnips, Mashed •. 155 

Turnips and Potatoes 156 

Turnips, Steamed 155 

V 

Veal 99 

Veal with Dumplings 99 

Veal, Jellied 100 

Veal Loaf 101 

Veal, Molded 100 

Veal Roast 99 

Vegetarian Roast 129 

Vegetarian Turkey 126 

Vermicelli 78 

Vegetarian Turkey 12b 

Victoria Salad Dressing ' 179 



r 



flSDM3235M12 



!i!!II!l!!ini!i*l!l!ll|!!|!!in'i^' 



i ''iliiiliaiiiiSiliiS'H ijiij 
li"i!ii:iiiis' ■liKiiilt il!!' 



!l:if 



I'l 



11 



b890^3232^12a 



p>^ -m ••*■ 



