659 

Ai4f 



torag 



Remote 

Arizona 
Fish and Game Laws and 
Cook Book 




LAKE MARY, NEAR F LAGSTAFF, ARIZONA 

Compiled and Published by 
STATE GAME WARDEN 
Phoenix, Arizona 



LATEST REVISED EDITION 1921 



To All The People: 

Proceeding under the rule that the proper 
functions of public officials is the service of 
the people, the Game and Fish Department 
will maintain the policy of serving as many 
people as possible who come within the scope 
of the Department's activities. 

Adhering closely to the demand of Governor 
Campbell for economy and efficiency in of- 
ficial work, this Department will develop a 
state-wide organization that will be product- 
ive of practical results at comparatively small 
cost. ' 

All letters and communications sent to this 
office will be treated as ‘'strictly confidential” 
and this office will be thankful to any one at 
any time to receive information regarding any 
violation. Names will not be used without 
permission. 

JOE V. PROCHASKA, 
State Game Warden., 



JOURNAL-MINER, PRESCOTT, ARIZONA 



ARIZONA 
FISH AND GAME 
LAWS 

AND COOK BOOK 
1921 



Compiled and Published 



by 

JOE. V. PROCHASKA 
State Game Warden 



Phoenix, Arizona 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Page 

Introduction : 3 

White Mountains of Arizona 3 

Ranchers, Farmers and Sportsmen 5 

State Game Refuges 11 

Licenses 13 

Possession of Game Without a License 15 

Open Seasons 16 

Bag Limits 16 

Species Entirely Protected 17 

Illegal Methods and Devices 17 

Storage of Game 18 

Sale or Export of Game or Fish 18 

Civil Suits and Damages 22 

License Fees 27 

Shotguns, Calibre Limit 28 

Fines and Their Disposition 32 

Penalties 33 

Federal Regulations 35 

Fish Ponds on Farms 37 

Taxidermy/* Regulated 40 

Federal Game Open Seasons 43 

Game and Fish Cook Book 46-49 

ADVERTISEMENTS 

Palace Hardware and Arms Co 6 

Evinrude Motor Co 14 

Becker Mercantile Co 24 

Jonas Bros ' 42 

Colburn’s Taxidermy Studio 65 






Ax 

PART I 



Introduction 

This pamphlet contains the Fish and Game Laws 
of Arizona; the powers, duties and funds of the 
State Game Warden; HOW TO PREPARE, COOK 
AND SERVE WILD GAME, BIRDS AND FISH. 

ALSO 

Information regarding the State Game Preserves 
established by the Legislature of the State of Ari- 
zona, and other useful data. 




Hunters and fishermen should read very carefully 
this pamphlet in order to avoid any misunderstand- 
mg when interviewed by a Deputy Warden. This 
pocket edition may be obtained by applying for 
same at office*of State Game Warden,^ State House, 
Phoenix, Ariz.; or from any Deputy Game Warden. 



WHITE MOUNTAINS OF ARIZONA 

Springerville, Arizona, is known as the gateway to 
the White Mountains of Arizona. The Sportsman, 
Tourist and Autoist that wishes to spend the Summer 
months in the mountains can purchase his supplies or 
secure a pack outfit of any size wanted, also guides, 




Arizona Black Tail Deer: Deer Season Open October 1 till November 1. Bag Limit 

One Male With Horns 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



5 



by applying to the Becker Mercantile Co., Round 
Valley Bank or Becker’s Garage at Springerville. 
Many parties are making Springerville a base, where 
free camp sites with water are furnished by Becker’s 
(Garage. It is but an hour’s auto ride to some of the 
best Trout Streams in the Southwest. Bear and 
Mountain Lion for those that care to have an element 
of danger included in their sport but short distances 
from Springerville. The limit of Wild Turkey and 
Black Tail Deer during the month of October is al- 
ways the result of a few days spent in the White 
Mountains near Springerville. This office is always 
glad to answer and direct Sportsmen and Tourists to 
any part of Arizona that they may desire to visit. 
Boating, Fishing, Camping or Hunting. Space will 
not permit us to tell or our wonderful all-year-’round 
climate in Arizona. A letter addressed to the State 
Game Warden asking about your favorite sport will 
be cheerfully and promptly answered. 



To The Sportsmen: 

The shooting of most of the game birds and ani- 
mals of the State is lawful. Before you start on your 
outing trip, we wish you to consider the following 
propositions: 

The Rancher and Farmer, and the Sportsman 
Title to the wild life is vested in the State or the 
Nation (depending on the species); but whether or 
not you will be permitted to hunt on most of the land 



Sportsmen! 



We Are Headquarters for 

CAMPERS’ SUPPLIES 
FISHING TACKLE 
GUNS AND AMMUNITION 
ATHLETIC GOODS 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



Mail Orders Filled the Same Day Received 



THE WINCHESTER STORE 




PALACE HARDWARE & ARMS CO. 



Phoenix 



Arizona 




ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



7 



in the State rests with the landowners. Your hunter’s 
license does not give you the right to go; on any 
man’s land against his wish. It is, therefore squarely 
up to you to decide whether your actions will en- 
courage the Ranchmen and Farmers to refrain from 
posting, or whether, by reason of acts of vandalism 
and thoughtlessness (to say nothing of negligence on 
your part), the owner of the land in self-protection, 
will be compelled to keep 3’'Ou off. 

If your record is good, what will you do this year 
to force guilty persons to understand that they are 
threatening the existence of your sport? We believe 
the landowners will meet you more than half way, 
and will not go to the expense of posting, and suffer 
the loss of time patrolling, unless you drive them to it. 

It is up to the 20,000 hunters in the State to act as 
field agents for the landowners, to assist in prosecut- 
ing any violations of property rights, and to see to it 
that the country is left in better condition than they 
found it. 

Wild Life — Future of the Sport 

It is elementary that the destruction of more wild 
life each year than comes into existence means rapid 
and complete extermination. Your slogan should be, 
put back two for every one taken. To do this, kill 
vermin, feed the birds in the winter, observe reason- 
able bag limits, and assist in artificial propagation. If 
you are in doubt as to what to do, write to us. 

Every sportsman should be equally interested in 
preserving the insectivorous birds. They are of un- 
told value to the land. This is one positive way t<» 
help the man over whose land you hunt each year. 



8 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Game Laws and Deputies 

The game laws were enacted for your benefit, -and 
restrict the taking of wild life to make possible your 
slogan of putting back two for every one taken out 
(and this applies equal])^ to birds, quadrupeds and 
fish). Their violation means a greater loss to you 
than to others because this is your sport. 

The deputy is working for your interest. His dis- 
trict is unlimited. If he covers a square mile today, 
it may take him over a year to get around to it again. 
He is your servant, but will appreciate your help. His 
interests should be your interests. He has dedicated 
his life to assist in establishing the improved condi- 
tions of sport which you desire^ A good many hunt- 
ers think that violating the fish and game laws and 
“getting away with it is part of the game. The more 
you think this over, we believe the less willing you 
will be to subscribe to this doctrine. 

Field Deportment 

Don’t shoot until you clearly see your game, and 
not even then unless you have your partner located. 
Stop if some l^uilding is in line with your shot. The 
only safe gun is the one apart in your case. You can 
not be too careful with it at any time. Give your 
partner a few of the shots. Do not try for ^‘a hun- 
dred per cent;” the man never lived who could do it 
day in and day out. Give your dog a square deal, 
and if you have neglected him for eleven months, do 
not expect hhn to be a finished hunter and going 
strong at the end of the first day. 

Forest Fires 

Every square mile burned over means a great loss 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



9 



to the landowner, who from now on you are going to 
protect It means less shooting ground for you and 
less breeding ground for game. Report a fire to the 
nearest town forest warden. Help fight it. Break 
your match in two before you throw it away. 

Think This Over 

When you gather in camp on the “night before, ’’ or 
compare notes at the end of the day, let the above 
propositions sink in. Our desire is to make the grand 
old State of Arizona more and more attrective to live 
in every year, and among other things to increase 
and perpetuate your sport. We shall always be glad 
to hear from you on the problems involved, and we 
wish you good luck and wholesome recreation when 
you go hunting or fishing. 

JOE V. PROCHASKA, 
State Game Warden. 



A Sportsman is a Gentleman 

The best sportsman is the man who finds the most 
game, kills the least, and leaves no wounded behind 
him. — Joe V. Prochaska. 




Arizona Antelope: Anderson Mesa, Near Williams, Arizona. No Open Season 




ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



11 



State Game Refuges 

Mount Graham, Huachuca, Blue Range, and 
Pinal Mountains 

Created by the Third Legislature of Arizona, 1917. 

Catalina Mountains 

Created by the Fourth Legislature of Arizona, 1919. 

For the better protection of the wild game birds 
and game animals of Arizona, and to provide a safe 
breeding place and refuge therefor, from which the 
surrounding country may be stocked and replenished 
with game, the following described areas' have been 
set aside as State Game Preserves: 

Mount Graham 

The boundaries of the Mount Graham State Game 
Preserve, as hereby established, shall conform exactly 
with the boundaries of that portion of the Crook 
National Forest, commonly known as the Graham 
mountains. 

Huachuca 

The boundaries of the Huachuca State Game Pre- 
serve, as hereby established, shall conform exactly 
with the boundaries of that portion of the Coronado 
National Forest lying between Meridians 110 and 111 
of Longitude, and south of the Fourth Standard Par- 
allel south, commonly known as the Huachuca and 
Patagonia mountains lying within said boundaries. 

Blue Range 

The boundaries of the Blue Range Game Preserve, 



12 



ARIZONA GAMiE LAWS 



as hereby established, shall conform exactly with the 
boundaries of that portion of the Apache National 
Forest Reserve of Greenlee County. 

Pinal Mountains 

The boundaries of the Pinal Mountains State Game 
Preserve, as hereby established, shall conform exactly 
with the boundaries of that portion of the Crook Na- 
tional Forest Reserve, commonly known as the Pinal 
mountains, all of which are situated in said Crook 
National Forest Reserve. 

Catalina Mountains 

The boundaries of the Catalina Miountains State 
Game Preserve, as hereby established, shall conform 
exactly with the boundaries of that portion of the 
Coronado National Forest Reserve, commonly known 
as the Catalina mountains. 

Grazing Under U. S. Permits 

The acts creating these five game refuges provide 
that stock grazing, as permitted by the United States 
government, shall be allowed on the State Game 
Preserves. 

Violations and Penalties 

It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to 
hunt, trap, kill, capture, or pursue any bird or animal 
whatsoever within the limits of any State Game Pre- 
serve within the State of Arizona; provided that the 
provisions of this Act shall not apply to the killing, 
capture, or destruction of any mountain lion, wolf, 
fox, coyote, lynx, or wildcat, or other obnoxious 
animal, under such regulations as the State Game 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



13 



Warden may prescribe. Any person or persons vio- 
lating provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty 
of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined 
not less than Fifty Dollars, nor more than Two Hun- 
dred and Fifty Dollars, or shall be imprisoned in the 
county jail for a period of not less than three months, 
nor more than one year, or shall suffer both such fine 
and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. 

The State Game Warden shall have entire super- 
vision over all State Game Preserves. 



Arizona Fish and Game Laws 

TITLE XVIII— PENAL CODE 



PRESERVATION OF GAME 
AND FISH 



License, Kinds, by Whom Issued 
651. No person shall at any time shoot, or take in 
any manner, any game which is by law protected in 
this State without first having in his possession a 
hunting license as herein provided, for the year such 
shooting is done. Licenses shall be issued by the 
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, State Game 
Warden, or such deputies as may be designated for 
that purpose by the State Game Warden. 




EVINRUDE 

Detachable Motor for Watercraft 

Easily attached to the stern of rowboat or 
canoe — ready to take you on enjoyable out- 
ings, fishing and hunting trips. 

Portable, easy to operate, always dependable. 
Evinrude Magneto— Built-In Flywheel Type — 
Automatic Reverse — more power and speed. 



EVINRUDE MOTOR CO. 

208 Florence street Milwaukee, Wis. 




ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



15 



License — How to Obtain 

652. Any person of the age of twelve years or over 
may, if a non-resident or alien, procure hunting 
licenses as herein provided by filing his affidavit, and 
if a resident, by filing a certificate with the Clerk of 
the Board of Supervisors, State Game Warden, or 
any deputy warden, authorized to issue hunting 
licenses, stating therein his name, age, height, weight, 
place oi residence, postoffice address, and color of 
hair and eyes. No license shall be issued except on a 
blank furnished by the State Game Warden, and on 
payment of the sum herein provided for such license. 
All hunting licenses shall be numbered consecutively 
when printed and shall expire with the calendar year 
in which issued and shall state the names, age, height, 
weight, place of residence, postoffice address and 
color of hair and eyes of the licensee. 

License — Who Is Entitled To 

653. Any person who has been a bonafide resident 
of this State for the one year then last passed, shall 
be entitled to procure a resident hunting license. 

Any person not a bona fide resident of this State, 
but who is a bona fide resident of the United States, 
shall be entitled to procure a non-resident hunting 
license. 

Possession of Game Without License 

654. The possession of game or fish at any time, 
unaccompanied by a valid license or permit, shall be 
prima facie evidence that such game or fish was un- 
lawfully taken and is unlawfully held. And it shall 
be the duty of every person to produce a proper 



16 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



license or permit when called upon to do so by any 
game warden and permit the same to be examined 
and copied. 



OPEN SEASON (AS AMENDED BY INITIAT- 
IVE ACT OF NOVEMBER 7, 1916,) AND 
TO CONFORM WITH FEDERAL LAW 



Bag Limits 

654. The open season, for hunting or taking 
game birds, game animals and fish, and the bag 
limit on eoch, shall be as follows: 

Male Deer — October 1 to November 1; bag limit, 
one deer with horns, during season. 

Wild Turkey — October 1 to November 1; bag limit, 
two, during season. 

Ducks, Geese, Coots, Rail and larger shore birds — 
October 16 to January 31; bag limit, 20 birds of all 
said varieties in one day, or in possession at any one 
time. 

Whitewings — July 15 to December 31. Doves — 
September 1 to December 15; bag limit, not exceed- 
ing 25 birds in possession at any one time, or in one 
day, counting both varieties. 

Gambels or Valley Quail — October 15 to December 
31 ; bag limit, not to exceed 20 birds in one day or in 
possession at any one time. 

Trout, of all kinds — ^June 1 to September 1; bag 
limit, 25 individual fish, not less than seven inches 
long, in one day or in possession at one time. 

All other kinds of fish — January 1 to December 31; 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



17 



bag limit, not to exceed 25 pounds in one day, or in 
possession at one time, including all kinds here re- 
ferred to. 

Any person who shall take any fish under seven 
inches in length, of any variety of fish protected by 
this title, is hereby required to return such fish, as 
little injured as possible, to the waters from which 
they were taken. Any person failing to abide by the 
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misde- 
meanor. 

Species Entirely Protected 
(See Also Section 668) 

655. It shall be unlawful to kill, trap, or snare, or 
in any manner injure or destroy, or have in posses- 
sion any antelope, elk, goat or mountain sheep, female 
deer, or fawn, roadrunner, bob white, grouse or 
pheasant. It shall be unlawful to kill, trap, snare, or 
in any manner injure or destroy, any carrier or hom- 
ing pigeon, the property of another. 

Possession After Season is Closed 

656. No game or fish shall be held in possession 
more than five days after the close of the season for 
the killing of the same. 

Illegal Methods and Devices 

657. No game shall be pursued, wounded, taken or 
killed, with a steel or hardpointed bullet, nor shall 
any person use in the pursuit, taking, wounding, or 
killing of any animals, birds, or fish, protected by 
this title, any net, seine, trap, cage, snare, salt lick, 
blind, scaffold, deadfall, pit, snaghook, trout line, 



18 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



artificial light or similar device whatever; provided, 
that dogs, blinds, sinks and decoys may be used in 
hunting birds. 

Storage of Game 

658. No game or fish shall be received or held in 
storage except as follows, namely: 

During the open season therefor, and for five days 
thereafter, when the same is stored for the person 
lawfully in possession of the same. 

Sale or Export of Game and Fish Prohibited 

659. Any person who at any time shall buy, sell or 
barter, any bird, fish or animal protected by this act, 
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who, 
during the time when its killing or taking is pro- 
hibited, shall transport or attempt to transport any 
bird, fish or animal protected by this act shall be 
guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who at any 
time shall transport or attempt to transport from the 
State, any bird, fish or animial protected by this Act, 
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The provisions of 
this section shall not be so construed as to conflict 
in any way with the provisions of Sec. 666 of this Act. 

Destruction of Illegal Devices 

660. Every net, trap, explosive, poisonous or stu- 
pefying substance or device, used, or intended for 
use, in taking or killing game or fish in violation of 
this title, and set, kept, or found in or upon any of 
the streams or waters of this State, or upon the shores 
thereof, and every trap, device, blind or deadfall 
found baited in violation of this title, is hereby de- 
clared a nuisance and may be abated and summarily 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



19 



destroyed by any person, and it shall be the duty of 
every officer authorized to enforce this title to seize 
and summarily destroy the same and no prosecution 
or suit shall be maintained for such destruction; pro- 
vided, that nothing in this title shall be construed as 
affecting the right of the State Game Warden to use 
such means as may be proper for the promotion of 
game and fish propagation and culture, nor as author- 
izing the seizure or destruction of firearms. 

Poss€ Expense 

661. The necessary and ordinary fees and expenses 
of every posse la^vfully summoned and engaged in 
the enforcement of this title shall be taxed as part of 
the costs, and if not collected from the person liable 
therefor, shall be paid out of the game protection 
fund. 

Jail Sentence 

662. Whenever, upon conviction, the person con- 
victed fails to pay the fine and costs imposed upon 
him, if over eighteen years of age, he shall be com- 
mitted to the county jail and shall there be kept con- 
fined one day for each dollar of the fine and cost 
adjudged against him and he shall not be discharged 
or released therefrom by any board of officers, except 
upon the payment of the portion of the fine and costs 
remaining unserved or upon the order of the gov- 
ernor of this State. 

Game Warden May Revoke License 

663. If the holder of any ’license shall persistently, 
or flagrantly, or knowingly, violate or countenance 
the violation of any of the provisions of the game 




Springerviile, Arizona 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



21 



laws, sucli license shall be revoked by the Game War- 
den after due notice shall have been given the alleged 
violator and opportunity afforded him to appear and 
show cause against the revocation of such license. 

State Evidence 

664. In any prosecution under this title, any par- 
ticipant in violation thereof, when so requested by 
the County Attorney, State Game Warden, or other 
officer, instituting the prosecution, may testify as 
witness against any other persons charged with such 
violation, and his evidence so given shall not be used 
against him in any prosecution for such violation. 

Court’s Report to State Warden 

665. It shal be the duty of every Justice of the 
Peace and Clerk of the Court jbefore whom any 
prosecution under this title may be commenced, or 
shall go on appeal, and within twenty days after the 
trial or dismissal thereof, to report in writing the re- 
sults thereof, and the amount of fines collected, if 
any, and the disposition thereof, to the State Game 
Warden. 

Permits for Scientific and 
Propagation Purposes 

666. The State Game Warden may issue permits 
to any person to take, capture, kill, transport 
within or out of tlie State, or import into the 
State, any game, birds, or fish mentioned in this title, 
at any time when satisfied that such person desires 
the same exclusively as specimens for scientific or 
propagating purposes. Such permits shall be in writ- 



22 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



ing and shall state the kind and number to be taken 
and the manner of taking, the name of the person to 
whom issued, and if imported into the State, the 
name of the State or Territory from which shipped, 
and the name of the person shipping such game, 
birds or fish and shall be signed by him, and such 
permit shall not be transferable nor shall it be law- 
ful to sell or barter any of the animals, birds, or fish, 
taken or imported under such permit, for food pur- 
poses, and the holder of such permit shall be liable 
to the penalties provided in this title if he violates 
any of its provisions. 

Retention of Young Animals 

667. The State Game Warden may authorize the 
retention, by any resident of this State, of any young 
animal which has been abandoned by its mother and 
taken in good faith for the purpose of saving its life, 
but not more than four such animals shall be re- 
deemed by one person at the same time. He may 
also at any time, and in any manner take any game 
running at large within the State, for the purpose of 
propagating in any other part of the State. 

Civil Suits — Minimum Damages 

This section was amended by the Fourth Legisla- 
ture of the State of Arizona, 1919, to read as follows: 

668. (a) The State Game Warden, if he so elect, 
or any other officer charged with the enforcement of 
the laws relating to game and fish, if so directed by 
the State Game Warden, may bring civil action in the 
name of the State against any person unlawfully 
wounding or killing, or having unlawfully in posses- 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



23 



sion, any game quadruped, bird, or fish, or part 
thereof, and recover judgment for each such animal 
or part thereof, the following minimum sums as 
damages for the taking, killing or injuring thereof, 
to~wit: 

For each elk $200.00 

For each deer 50.00 

For each antelope 100.00 

For each mountain sheep or goat 200.00 

For each bird : 10.00 

For each fish 1.00 

No judgment or verdict recovered by the State in 
such action shall be less than the sum hereinbefore 
fixed. Such action and damages may be joined with 
the action for possession and recovery had for the 
possession and also the damages therefor, aforesaid. 
Neither the pendency nor the determination of such 
action, nor the payment of such judgment, nor the 
pendency nor determination of a criminal prosecu- 
tion for the same taking, wounding, killing or pos- 
session, shall be a bar to the other, nor affect the 
right of the other. 

(b) Authority to Open Season. — When informa- 
tion is furnished the State Game Warden that any 
species of animals or birds has become, under ex- 
traordinary conditions seriously injurious to agricul- 
ture or other interests in any particular community 
in the State of Arizona, an investigation will be made 
to determine the nature and extent of the damage, 
whether the birds or animals alleged to be doing the 
damage should be taken or killed, and if so, during 
what times and by what means. Upon his determina- 



Becker Mercantile Co. 

SPRINGERVILLE, ARIZONA 



General Merchants 

HEADQUARTERS. 

Everything for Tourists, Sportsmen, Hunters 
and Campers. Glad to be of Service. Or fur- 
nishing information about White Mountains or 
roads in every direction. 



Becker Garage Co. 

Auto Supplies, Gas, Oil, Expert Mechanics 



Free Camp Grounds, Wood and Water 
Complete Line of Ford Parts 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



25 



tion an appropriate order may be made by him allow- 
ing said birds or animals to be taken or killed. 

(c) Trapper’s License. — Hereafter it shall be un- 
lawful for any person over the age of 18 years, in the 
State of Arizona, to hunt or trap on lands for fur- 
bearing and predatory animals of this State, unless 
such person shall have first obtained a .State Trap- 
per’s License, paying therefor the sum of $2.50. 

(d) Fur-bearing and Predatory Animals. — For 
the purpose of this section, the following predatory 
and fur-bearing animals shall be considered: 



Mountain Lions 

Foxes 

Muskrats 

Minks 

Beavers 

Badgers 

Coyotes 



Bears 

Civet Cats 

Raccoons 

Skunks 

Martins 

Fishers 

Moles 



Wolves 

Leopards 

Opossums 

Otters 

Weasels 

Ringtailed Cats 

Woodrats 



(e) Traps Protected or Seized. — It shall be un- 
lawful to disturb or remove the traps of any licensed 
trapper while trapping on the public domain or on 
lands where he has permission to trap. The traps of 
any person trapping without a license off his own 
lands, except as provided in this section, shall be 
seized by the State Game Warden and may be sold 
and the money derived from such sale shall be de- 
posited to the credit of the State Game Protection 
Fund. 

(f) Possession of Fur-bearing and Predatory 
Animals. — It shall be lawful to keep fur-bearing and 
predatory animals at any time for the purpose of 
propagation, exhibit or sale; provided, that any per- 



26 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



sou desiring to propagate, exhibit or sell said animals 
shall first obtain a permit from the State Game 
Warden. 

(g) Illegal Trap Bait. — ^No flesh of any game 
bird, fish, or animal shall be used for trap bait in 
trapping any of the animals enumerated in this 
section. 

(h) Protection of Owner’s Premises. — Nothing 
herein shall be construed to prevent any person from 
protection of his own premises from depredation of 
any of the animals above enumerated. 

(i) Closed Season on Beaver and Wild Hog. — 
Every person who takes, kills or destroys, or has in 
his possession, whether taken or killed in the State of 
Arizona, or shipped into the State from any other 
State, any Javelinas or Peccaris (common name, 
Wild Hog), or Beaver, for the period ending De- 
cember 31, 1922, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 

(j) Misdemeanor to Hunt or Fish Without Li- 
cense. — No person shall at any time hunt, shoot, or 
take in any manner, any game or non-game animal, 
bird or fish within the State of Arizona without first 
having in his possession, a hunting and fishing li- 
cense as herein provided, for the year such hunting 
or fishing is done. 

(k) Where Licenses Can Be Purchased and 
Illegal Sale of Deer. — Licenses shall be issued by the 
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, State Game War- 
den, or such deputies as may be designated for that 
purpose by the State Game Warden. 

Every person who buys, sells, offers or exposes 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



27 



lor sale, barter or trade, the hide, pelt or skin of any 
deer, or who transports, carries, or has in his posses- 
sion, the skin, pelt, or hide of any female deer, or 
spotted fawn, any deer hide, or pelt, from which the 
evidence of sex has been removed, is guilty of a mis- 
demeanor. 

Nothing in this Act is intended to prevent any per- 
son from having the hide, pelt, or skin, tanned or 
mounted, of any deer, taken by himself legally. 

Sec. 2. All Acts and parts of Acts in conflict with 
the provisions of this Act are hereby repealed. 

Seal of Office 

669. The State Game Warden shall keep a seal of 
office which shall be used to authenticate all papers 
and documents issued and executed by him as such 
officer. 

Record of Money; License Fee (as Amended 
By Initiative Act, November 7, 1916) 

670. The State Game Warden shall keep a record 
of all money received and all licenses, certificates, 
permits and tags issued by him, numbering each 
class separately ,and upon satisfactory proof that any 
license, certificate, or permit has been lost before the 
expiration thereof, he may issue a duplicate therefor, 
for which the applicant shall pay the sum of 10 cents. 

The State Game Warden and license collectors 
shall charge and collect the following license fees: 

A fee of $1.25 shall be collected from a resident for 
a license to fish by means of hook and line in the 
public waters of the State, and to hunt and take any 



28 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



kind of game during the open season therefor, on 
the public domain. 

A fee of $20 shall be collected from aliens and non- 
residents for license to fish in the public waters of 
the State, by means of hook and line and to hunt and 
take any kind of game during the open season there, 
of, on the public domain. 

A fee of $10 shall be collected from aliens and non- 
residents for a license to fish by means of a hook and 
line, in the public waters of the State, and to hunt 
and take any kind of game during the, open season 
therefor (excepting deer and turkey), on the public 
domain. 

Shot Guns 

671. It shall be unlawful for any person in the 
State of Arizona to use a gun of larger calibre than 
that commonly known and designated as Number 10 
Gauge, for the purpose of destroying any wild tur- 
key, dove, quail, wild duck, wild goose, snipe or rail. 

Illegal Possession of Eggs 

672. It shal be unlawful for any person in the 
State of Arizona to take, gather, or destroy, or have 
in possession at any time, the eggs of any quail, bob 
white, partridge, grouse, pheasant, dove, wild turkey, 
wild duck, wild goose, brant, snipe, or any song bird 
of any kind. 

Shooting on Public Highway 

673. It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot 
a revolver, rifle, or shot gun of any calibre or gauge, 
upon, from or across any public highway of the 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



29 



State of Arizona, where there is cultivated land or 
dwelling houses either side thereof, or where shot 
from such gun shall fall in, or pass over any culti- 
vated land or dwelling houses, or among stock or 
other animals grazing on land contiguous to such 
public highway. 

Song Birds 

674. It shall be unlawful for any person in the 
State of Arizona, at any time to hunt, pursue, kill or 
destroy any lark, thrush, sparrow, grosbeak, or tan- 
ager, or any other song bird of any kind; provided, 
that nothing in this title be so construed as to inter- 
fere with the collection of birds for scientific pur- 
poses by the Curator of the State Museum, or by any 
other person authorized by the State Game Warden 
of this State to collect. 

Hunting by Indians 

675. It shall be unlawful for any Indian in the 
State of Arizona, at any time, to hunt, take, pursue, 
kill, or destroy, any game or fish mentioned in title, 
off the Government Reservation to which he belongs. 

Hunting by Minors 

676. All American-born persons, residents of this 
State, under the age of seventeen years may have the 
same privileges as one holding a general license, 
without cost, provided they are accompanied by a 
person holding a general license. 

Printing, License Collection, and 
Their Reports 

677. It shall be the duty of the State Game War- 



30 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 




STONEMAN LAKE 

Rain trout and Crappie; known as “The Sportsman’s 
Paradise”; deer and turkey are plentiful 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



31 



den, and he shall have the authority to procure the 
printing of all forms and blanks that may be re- 
quired to carry out the intent of this title and not 
inconsistent here'with, and all necessary blanks shall 
be furnished by him to the several license collectors. 
No license shall be issued except on an application 
s^vorn to hf the applicant, and any false statement 
in any application shall render the license issued 
thereon void. Every license collector shall keep a 
correct, complete record of every license issued by 
him, which record shall remain in his office and be 
open to inspection of the public at all times. All 
moneys collected for license shall be sent to the 
State Treasurer on or before the tenth day of the 
month following, and license collectors shall report 
to the State Game Warden the number of licenses 
issued, and the amount of money remitted. 

State Protection Fund 

678. All moneys sent to the State Treasurer in 
payment of hunting license, permits, certificates, 
fines, penalties, or forfeitures, shall constitute a fund 
to be known as the Game Protection Fund, for the 
payment of the printing, publishing of reports, post- 
age, express, and other necessary and office ex- 
penses, and the per diem salaries and necessary ex- 
penses of deputies; for the purchase, transportation, 
distribution and propagation of game and fi?h. 

The State Game Warden shall not issue any 
voucher, nor shall the State Auditor approve any such 
voucher issued by the State Game Warden under the 
provisions of this title, or otherwise, for any services 
or expenses of any kind, unless the money to pay 



32 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



such voucher shall at the time be on hand to pay 
the same. 

Disposition of Fines 

679. All moneys collected for fines under this 
title shall be immediately paid over by the Justice of 
the Peace or Clerk collecting or receiving the same, 
as follows: 

One-half to the State Treasurer, to be by him 
credited to the Game Protection Fund. 

And one-half to the person or deputy instituting 
the prosecution, except in cases where such prosecu- 
tion is instituted by salaried officers, in which case 
such fines shall all be paid over to the State Treas- 
urer, to be by him credited to the Game Protection 
Fund. The State Treasurer shall render monthly 
statements to the State Game Warden, showing all 
monecy received and paid out under the provisions 
of this title. 

Birds Not Protected 

680. The English or European sparrow, great 
horned owl, and al species of hawks, are not included 
among the birds protected by this title. 

Time Limit on Prosecution 

681. Prosecution under this title may be com- 
menced within one month from^ the date of violation 
of any of the provisions of this title, either by com- 
plaint or information. 

Bird Pets 

682. Nothing in this title shall prevent a citizen of 
the State of Arizona from taking or keeping 3.ny wild 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



33 



birds in any cage, as a domestic pet; provided, that 
such bird shall not be sold or exchanged or offered 
for sale or exchange, or transported out of this State. 

Fishing with Hook and Line Only 

683. It shall be unlawful for any person or per- 
sons to catch, kill, or have in his or their possession, 
any species of trout or game food fish found in any 
of the public streams or waters of this State, unless 
said fish has been taken with a hook and line attach- 
ed to a rod or held in the hand, and any person or 
persons, catching, killing, or having in their posses- 
sion, any such fish, taken in any other manner, shall 
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon convic- 
tion thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less 
than $25 nor more than $50, or by imprisonment for 
not less than ten days, nor more than thirty days, or 
by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discre- 
tion of the court, and every fish caught or killed in 
violation hereof, shall constitute a separate and dis- 
tinct offense. 

Penalties for Violation 

684. Any person violating any of the provisions 
of this title shall be punished by a fine of not less 
than $10 nor more than $100, or by imprisonment for 
not less than ten days nor more than ninety days, or 
by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discre- 
tion of the court. 

Deputy Warden — Duties and Powers; Per 
Diem Expenses While on Duty 

687. Each Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Constable, and 



34 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Livestock Sanitary Inspector is hereby appointed 
and designated a State Deputy Game Warden. 

The State Game Warden ma 3 '^ appoint such Deputy 
County Game Wardens as to him may seem proper 
(and may remove them from office), Avho shall be 
residents of the county from which they are ap- 
pointed, and who shall be especially charged with the 
duty of enforcing the fish and game laws in their re- 
spective counties, and may be designated as license 
collectors. Each deputy so appointed shall qualify 
by filing with the State Game Warden an oath of 
office in the form prescribed by law for a State 
officer. It shall be the duty of the State Game War- 
den and of each State and County Game Warden to 
rigidly and strictly enforce the provisions of this 
law and all other laws of the State of Arizona for the 
protection of fish and game of whatsoever kind or 
description, and to institute or cause to be instituted 
prosecutions for any and all violations of such laws, 
and to arrest, or cause to be arrested all violators of 
such laws and to lodge accusations against them in 
a court of competent jurisdiction in the premises; to 
gather evidence on behalf of the prosecution of such 
offenders and to do all things necessary to the pun- 
ishment hereunder and under the laws of this State 
on the subject of fish and game and the protection 
thereof. For failure to arrest and prosecute any per- 
son violating the provisions of this or other laws of 
the State of Arizona for the protection of fish and 
game such State Game Warden or such deputy shall 
be liable to a fine of not less than $100 and not more 
than $250, or by imprisonment for net less than thirty 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



35 



da}^s and not more than ninety days, or by both such 
fine and imprisonment; provided, that such violation 
come within the knov/ledge of such State Game 
Warden or Deputy. The conviction thereof shall 
also operate as a removal of such person from office. 
The State Game Warden shall have power to pay 
such deputies as he shall designate for specific duties 
a per diem of $3 and actual necessary expenses while 
under the direct order of the State Game Warden in 
the performance of duties in enforcing the fish and 
game laws; provided, that the State Game Warden 
shall not designate deputies for services requiring per 
diem or expenses for specific duties except when 
there are sufficient funds in the Game Protection 
Fund to pay for such services. The salaries, per 
diem, an dexpenses of the deputies shall be paid semi- 
monthly upon verified vouchers under oath, approved 
by the State Game Warden, out of the Game Pro- 
tection Fund. 

Excerpts from the Federal Regulations for the 
Protection of Migratory Birds 

All wild geese, wild swans, wild ducks, snipes, 
plover, woodcock, rail, wild pigeons, and all other 
migratory game and insectivorous birds which in 
their norther nand southern migrations pass through 
or do not remain permanently the entire year within 
the borders of any State or Territory, shall hereafter 
be deemed to be within the custody and protection of 
the Government of the United States, and shall not 
be destroyed or taken contrary to regulations herein- 
after provided therefor. 



'6 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Regulation I — Definition 

For the purpose of these regulations the following 
shall be considered migratory game birds: 

(a) Anatidae or waterfowl, including brant, wild 
duck, geese and swans. 

(b) Gruidae or cranes, including little brown, 
sandhill, and whooping cranes. 

(c) Rallidae or rails, including coots, gallinules, 
and sora, and other rails. 

(d) Limicolae or shore birds, including avocets, 
curlew, dowitchers, godwits, knots, oyster catchers, 
phalaropes, plover, sandpipers, snipe, stilts, surf birds, 
turnstones, wiUets, woodcocks, and yellow legs. 

(e) Columidae or pigeons, including doves and 
wild pigeons. 

For the purposes of these regulations the follow- 
ing shall be considered migratory insectivorous birds: 

(f) Bobolinks, catbirds, chickadees, cuckoos, 
flickers, flycatchers, humming birds, kinglets, mart- 
ins, meadowlarks, nighthawks or bull bats, nu- 
thatches, orioles, * robins, titmice, thrushes, vircos, 
warblers, waxwings, whipporwills, woodpeckers and 
wrens, and all other perching birds which feed en- 
tirely or chiefly on insects. 

Regulation II — Closed Season at Night 

A daily closed season on all migratory game and 
insectivorous birds extend from sunset to sunrise. 

Closed season on band-tailed pigeons (Arizona 
wild pigeons), swans, cranes, curlew and all the 
smaller shore birds. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



37 



Fish Ponds on Farms 

The propagation of fish on farms in artifically 
constructed area is perfectly feasible; and with proper 
management such ponds will afford a convenient and 
economical food supply that will justify the expense 
of their construction or preparation and maintenance. 

Value of Fishi as Food 

As a substitute for meat, fish offers many advant- 
ages. Pound for pound, it contains as much protein 
as meat, and in some cases more. It therefore affords 
the same class and grade of material as beef, mutton, 
and pork. Unfortunately, those actively engaged in 
farm work rarely have the opportunity to fish in 
neighboring lakes and streams, and more distant ex- 
cursions, involving several days’ absence from home, 
are usually beyond consideration. The need is ap- 
parent, therefore, for a readil}^ accessible supply of 
fresh fish that may be drawn upon when desired. A 
source as dependable as the smokehouse or the 
poultry yard 

Pond Construction 

The exact mode of construction must depend 
largely upon local conditions, such as the presence or 
absence of favorable land contour, the nature of the 
soil, proximity to storm channels, and the area of 
the ground to be worked. Even with these features 
specified lesser local characteristics and the exi- 
gencies of individual circumstances will vary the 
application of any approved general method. Where 
practicable, ponds should not be less than one acre 



38 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 




ROOSEVELT LAKE 

Black bass, yellow perch, crappie, Colorado river 
salmon; federal bird preserve; unlimited fishing 
and camping accommodations 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



39 



in surface area. Those of smaller extent will pro- 
duce fish and add an interesting feature to farm life; 
but they will not yield adult food fishes of the larger 
species in quantities sufficient for the requirements 
of the average farmer’s table. 

Aquatic Plants 

Frequent reference has been made to the necessity 
of vegetation in fish ponds. Its advantages are many. 
It serves as food and a harbor for the lowest forms 
of minute animal life. Each advance in the scale of 
life constitutes a food for higher forms, and in the 
guise of fish fertility of the groud contributes the 
food of the human race. 

Species of Fish Suitable for Pond Culture 

Small mouth Black Bass, large mouth Black Bass, 
Crappie, Calico Bass, Rock Bass, War-mouth Bass, 
Sunfish, Catfish. 

Care of Fish 

As with all forms of live stock, it is essential that 
brood fish be kept in a thrifty condition. Good food, 
proper shelter, ventilation, and exercise — familiar re- 
quirements to the farmer — have tlieir equivalents in 
the food, physical characteristics of the pond, com- 
position and aeration of the water, and the amount 
of space allotted to a given number of fish. Com- 
mon sense, based upon the observations of natural 
laws, will carry the fish culturist a long way toward 
success. 

How to Obtain Fish 

The Bureau of Fisheries will undertake to furnish 
fish to individuals for stocking public and private 



40 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



waters. Blanks upon which to submit formal appli- 
cations will be supplied on request, either by the 
State Game Warden, or by the Bureau at Washing- 
ton, D. C. Assignments of fish are made large 
enough to form the nucleus for a brood stock for a 
given area of water, and are delivered at the appli- 
cant’s railroad station free of charge. From the in- 
formation given in these applications the Bureau de- 
cides as to the suitability of the waters for the fish 
asked for and reserves the right to substitute other 
species if in the judgment the applicant’s selection 
is ill chosen, or it is impossible, with its limited fa- 
cilities, to supply the species specified within a rea- 
sonable length of time. 

For further information address the State Game 
Warden. 

Taxidermy Regulated 



Enacted by the Fourth Legislature of the 
State of Arizona, 1919 



Section 1. Hereafter it shall be unlawful within 
the State of Arizona for any person, who shall en- 
gage in conducting a taxidermist business, as the 
term is commonly understood, to prepare or mount 
any skins or dead bodies of any game or non-game 
birds or animals, or any part thereof, of this State 
for profit, unless such person shall first obtain a li- 
cense from the State Game Warden, which may be 
granted to any person on the discretion of the State 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



41 



Game Warden; provided, that such person must pay 
to the said State Game Warden the sum of $5.00 for 
said license, which shall expire on the 31st of De- 
cember of the year in which it is issued. 

Sec. 2. Any taxidermist who shall mount or pre- 
pare specimens of game or non-game animals, birds 
or fish, or any part thereof, must keep a register in 
which a list of names of all persons who furnish them 
with raw or unmounted specimens shall be kept, to- 
gether with the species of bird or animal received, 
and when and where such bird or animal was killed, 
and such taxidermist shall be required to exhibit 
such register, together with all the unmounted skins 
in his possession ,to any Game Warden or officer 
charged with the enforcement of the game laws, upon 
request. Any person failing to do so shall be guilty 
of a misdemeanor. 

Sec. 3. On proof that any holder of any taxi- 
dermist license has violated any of the provisions of 
this Act, his license shall be forfeited and he shall be 
guilty of a misdemeanor. All money derived from 
the sale of such taxidermist license shall be forward- 
ed to the State Treasurer who shall deposit same to 
the credit of the Game Protection Fund and shall be 
used for the protection and propagation of game 
animals, birds and fish. 

Sec. 4. Any licensed taxidermist may prepare, or 
mount, and transport in any manner, and at any time, 
birds, animals, and fish, or parts thereof, when legally 
taken; provided, however ,that his permit number is 
attached to the specimen, such permit tag to be 
furnished by the State Game Warden. 



LIFE LIKE MOUNTINGS 

A life-time de- 
voted with love 
and enthusiasm 
to the art of taxi- 
dermy makes our 
mountings super- 
ior to others. 
Send for our free 
illustrated Taxi- 
dermy catalogue, 
Field Guide, and 
Big Game Book. 
IBs 32 pages 




richly illustrated will charm and convince you 



JONAS BROS. 



Taxidermists, Tanners, Furriers 



1023-25 Broadway 

STYLISH 

FURS 

Your fur skins tanned and 
dressed. Ladies’ and Men’s 
fur coats, scarfs, muffs, 
fur rugs, etc., made to or- 
der from your own catch 
or from furs you buy 
cheap from trappers. 

Write for our free illus- 
trated fur catalogue today. 
The largest and best es- 
tablishment in the West. 



Denver, Colo. 




ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



43 



Federal Game Laws 

ARIZONA 

Open seasons: Dates inclusive. 

Deer (male), wild turkey Oct. 1-Oct. 31 

Quail (except bob white) Oct. 15-Dec. 31 

Mourning doves Sept. 1-Dec. 15 

White wings July 15-Dec. 31 

Duck, geese, brant, brants, Wilson snipe, 

coots, gallinule Oct. 16-Jan. 31 

Black-bellied and golden plovers, 

yellowlegs Oct. 15-Dec. 15 

Rail, other than coots and gallinules...Oct. 15-Nov. 30 

No Open Season: Does, spotted fawns, elk, ante- 

lope, sheep, goat, bob white, grouse, pheasant, beaver, 
pecarri, havelina, hog. 

Hunting and Fishing License: Non-resident or 

alien. Game and fish, $20; birds (except turkeys) 
and fish, $10. Not issued to applicant unde r 12 
years of age. Resident: Game and fish, $1.25. Is- 

sued by game warden, designated deputies and clerk 
of board of supervisors. Trapper’s license, $2.50. 

American-born resident under 17 years of age may 
hunt without a license, if accompanied by a holder 
of a general license. 

Bag Limits and Possession: One deer, 2 turkeys 

a season; 20 ducks, 8 geese, 20 coots, 15 plovers and 
yellowlegs, and 20 rail, but not more than 20 in all of 
waterfowl, plovers, yellowlegs, rails and coots a day 
or in possession; 25 quail, and 25 doves and white 
wings a day or in possession; 25 Wilson snipes a 
day. Possession of plovers, yellowlegs, rail, and 
doves permitted during first 10 days of closed sea- 
son; other game during first 5 days thereof. 

Sale: Sale of all protected game prohibited. 

Export: Export of all protected game prohibited, 

except for scientific or propagating purposes under 
permit from State warden. 



44 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 




MR. GOODFELLOW PLANTING TROUT 

In Pine Creek, just above Natural Bridge, in Gila 
county; varied accommodations for summer outing 




GAME AND FISH 
CULINAR Y 
RECIPES 



46 GAME AND FISH 

Cooking Time Table 

FOR BAKING 

MEATS 

Time in Oven. 

Venison, rare, per pound 10 min. 

Venison, stuffed, per pound 15 min. 

Wild Goose, per pound 15 min. 

Wild Goose, stuffed, per pound 20 min. 

Wild Turkey 2 to 3 hours. 

Jack Snipe, Plover, Yellowlegs, (hot oven) 15-20 min. 
Whitewing, Doves, small birds, (hot oven) 20-30 min. 

Wild Duck (very hot oven) 20 min. 

Wild Duck, stuffed (very hot oven) 25 to 30 min. 

Quail and Pheasant 35 to 40 min. 

Fish, all kinds, (hot oven) 30 to 45 min. 

FOR BROILING OR PAN-FRIED 

MEATS 

Venison, steaks or chops 8 to 10 min. 

Snipe, Whitewing, Quail, etc 10 to 15 min. 

Duck, (according to size) 20 to 25 min. 

Bass, (all fish over 2 pounds) 15 to 25 min. 

Trout 5 to 10 min. 

Rabbit ^ 20 to 25 min. 

FOR BOILING 

MEATS 

Venison, per pound 15 min. 

Turkey, per pound 15 min. 

Duck and small birds 30 to 45 min. 



CULINARY RECIPES 



47 



FISH 

Bass, per pound 10 min. 

Gila Salmon, Bony-tail, Carp, etc 16 min. 

Small fish 15 min. 



Fish should be drawn and gills removed as soon as 
possible, but should not be skinned until ready for 
oven or skillet. 

Birds and Ducks should not be plucked, skinned 
nor drawn until you have a cool place for them, as 
they spoil very soon after being drawn and dressed. 

Birds not stuffed or served with dressing should 
always be split down back. 

Jerky or Jerque, Charqui — Venison 

Cut in long, slender strips, dip in strong salt brine, 
hang up in the sun to dry. If possible, and taste de- 
mands, use red (chili) peppers in brine before dipping 
venison. 

VENISON 

Roast Venison — Wipe meat with damp cloth, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and place in baking pan, 
dredging meat and bottom of pan with flour. Place 
in oven over a medium flame and when flour in pan 
is browned, baste with the fat in the pan, adding 
water if necessary. Baste every 15 minutes. Time 
required for cooking is from lp 2 hours to 2 hours. 

Roast Venison — Lard a saddle of venison, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper,, dredge with flour. Place in 
dripping pan and baste with melted butter. Allow 
ten minutes to the pound for roasting. Serve with 
currant jelly sauce. 

Venison Pot Roast in Dutch Oven; Hunter’s Style 



48 



GAME AND FISH 



— Have dutch oven hot, place venison in ^ cup of 
butter, slice small onion and ^ bay leaf. Add three 
cups of hot water, salt and pepper (whole pepper 
corns preferable). Cover closely and cook for 2^ 
hours. Browned potatoes may be cooked the last 
hours at the same time with venison. Strain liquid in 
pan and thicken with four tablespoons flour browned 
Vv^ith three tablespoons butter. 

Venison Stew — Cut meat into small pieces and 
brown in fat or drippings. Put browned pieces into 
deep kettle with two or three small onions, salt and 
pepper and let simmer until meat is very tender. 
Thicken the broth or liquid with flour mixed to a 
paste with water, and stir constantly while the stew 
is thickening to prevent scorching. Serve with dried 
apricots, cooked slightly to provide the tart flavor 
which goes well with venison. 

Venison Steak — Venison steak should be cooked 
quickly over an extremely hot fire. Mix flour, salt, 
pepper and place on a piece of brown paper. Roll 
this mixture into both sides of the steak with a rolling 
pin. Roll the mixture in well, fry quickly until 
brown on both sides, and no better game dish will be 
found. 

Breaded Venison Chops — Beat up one egg if ob- 
tainable; if not, take salt, pepper, a little water, and a 
tablespoon of flour, and mix smooth. Have this mix- 
ture rather thin, dip the chops in, then into fine 
cracker crumbs, or corn meal; repeat, and bake in a 
hot oven or fry in a pan, using plenty of drippings. 

Broiled Venison Steak — Use a slice cut from the 
rump, round, or sirloin, cut 1]^ inches to 2^ inches 



CULINARY RECIPES 



49 



thick. Wipe meat; place on hot broiler, and broil 
over a clear fire from five to ten minutes, turning 
every ten seconds. Serve on a hot platter, spread 
w^ith butter, and season with salt and pepper. Serve 
with some acid sauce. 

Pan-Broiled Venison Chops — Heat frying pay hiss- 
ing hot; place chops in pan. Do not grease pan. 
Sear one side and then the other, and continue turn- 
ing every ten seconds, for five minutes if liked rare, 
and eight minutes if liked well done. 

Venison Steak Over Open Fire; Boy Scout Styles — 
Pin a slice of venison (always cut this across the 
grain for broiling or frying) and a slice of bacon to- 
gether with toothpicks, sprinkle on salt and pepper, 
and broil over open fire using a green forked stick 
as a spit. Be careful not to burn the meat; cook 
slowly. 

Curry of Game — Cut the meat from cold cooked 
game. Break the bones and cover with cold water. 
Saute two tablespoons in four tablespoons of butter 
and brown; add one tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce, one tablespoon curry powder and four cups of 
the liquor in which the bones have been cooked. 
Season with salt and pepper, color a delicate brown 
with kitchen bouquet, add two cups cold game, sim- 
mer ten minutes. Serve in rice border, or on slices 
of fried bread and garnish with a potato border and 
parsley. 

Deer's Liver — Treat deer’s liver like the steak and 
serve on slices of bacon, crisped and browned. 

Deer Heart — The heart should be stuffed and 
roasted, and served with something tart, if possible. 



50 



GAME AND FISH 



An easy stuffing would be to toast bread and moisten 
with salted water, adding pepper and spice. Form 
into a soft mass sufficient to stuff the heart. A little 
chopped bacon adds to the flavor of stuffing. 

Roast Wild Goose — Dress a goose, washing and 
scrubbing it with a brush and hot soapsuds. Wash in 
cold water. Stuff with old-fashioned stuffing, made 
as follows: Two cups mashed potatoes, 1 % cup soft 

bread crumbs, cup chopped fat salt pork, 1 finely 
chopped onion, >3 cup butter, 1 egg, 1 ^ teaspoons 
salt and 1 teaspoon sage. When stuffed sprinkle 
goose with salt and pepper and lay five or six thin 
strips of fat salt pork on the breast. Bake in medium 
oven two hours, basting often with fat in the pan. 
Remove the pork before goose is done. Serve with 
apple sauce. 

Roast Wild Duck — Clean and prepare as a goose, 
using less selt pork. Bake about half an hour in a 
medium hot oven. Stuff with a bread stuffing, serve 
with currant jelly. 

Roast Wild Goose — Rub a carefully dressed goose, 
inside and out, with salt, pepper, sage, thyme and 
sweet marjoram and let stand over night. Mix three 
cups of soft (stale) bread crumbs, half a cup of 
cleaned currants, half a cup of stoned raisins, a sour 
apple, peeled and cored and chopped, one hot cooked 
potato, pressed through a sieve, half a cup of melted 
butter, half a teaspoon of salt and a little pepper, and 
use to fill the goose; truss and roast in the usual 
manner. Serve with giblet sauce and a “compote” of 
cherries (canned or preserved). 

Roast Wild Turkey — Clean and truss turkey, that 



CULINARY RECIPES 



51 



that the cooked fowl may rest on the wings level on 
the platter, the drumsticks close to the body. Cover 
the breast with thin slices of fat pork or bacon. Set 
on a rack in a baking pan a little larger than the 
turkey. The rack should be smaller than the pan to 
admit of the free use of the spoon in basting. Turn 
often, at first to sear over uniformly and, later on to 
brown evenly. It will take half an hour to sear over 
over the outside of a turkey. The oven should be hot 
during this time; then lower the heat and finish the 
cooking in an oven in which the fat in the pan will not 
burn. Baste each ten minutes with hot drippings; 
dredge with flour after basting. Cook until the joints 
are easily separated. A ten-pound turkey will require 
three hours’ cooking. Add no water or brothe to the 
pan during cooking. 

Roast Wild Duck — It is well to have your duck 
lying in salt water about one to two hours before 
roasting as it takes away the wild odor. Use the 
following recipe for dressing and bake 1 hour, bast- 
ing often. Soak a cupful of stale bread in cold water, 
after it is soaked squeeze out as dry as possible, chop 
fine the liver and heart, fry a slice of onion in about 
a tablespoon of butter, add two tablespoonsful of 
raisins, 1 egg, a little nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste 
and mix all together in a bowl. 

Roast Canvasback or Redhead — The heads of wild 
duck are usually left on when cooked. Make a slit in 
front of the wishbone. Clean the bird; remove en- 
trails, crop and windpipe; draw the head through the 
neck opening. Truss, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
inside and outside. Bake in a very hot oven 18 to 20 



52 



GAME AND FISH 



minutes, basting with hot water during cooking. If 
the strong flavor of wild duck is objectionable, cook 
an onion or an apple in the cavity, removing it be- 
fore serving. Serve with the wild duck fried crescents 
of rice or hominy and currant jelly. 

Ruddy Duck, Butterballs, Bluebills, Broadbills, 
Teal, Coot or Quail are roasted in the same way as 
wild duck. The small birds are usually served on 
pieces of buttered toast and garnished with water 
cress, parsley and a highly seasoned sauce. 

DUCKS 

Ducks (Ed. Mitchell) — Pick and clean several 
ducks, then sear in dutch oven, in which has been put 
bit of butter, chopped onion, and chopped garlic bean, 
then put in a cup of carrots, corn from the cob or 
any vegetables suitable for a pot roast, a little celerj'’ 
and two cans of Spanish sauce, or “tomatoes and 
chili.’ Cook as a pot roast for two hours. 

Doves (Mrs. Frank Free) — Pick and clean doves, 
sear in bottom of kettle with garlic, onion and green 
pepper and Spanish sage and butter or bacon cut up, 
then pour in a cupful of water and cook until tender; 
when done add salt and pepper and flour to thicken. 

Potted Doves or Wbitewings (Mrs. Frank Free) — 
Truss four doves or whitewings, tie two slices of 
bacon around each one. Put one cup each of carrot 
and onion, cut in dice, in the bottom of a stewpan; 
place the birds on the vegetables; add two cups of 
water or stock, cover, and cook in oven until birds 
are tender. One-half hour before serving add one 
teaspoon salt. Serve on buttered toast. 



CULINARY RECIPES 



53 



QUAIL 

Quail is one of the most delicious game birds. It 
may be cooked in any of the ways that chicken or 
fowl is cooked. The one thing to remember about 
this game bird, in cooking it, is that the body is so 
small it is easily dried up. Also, there is little or no 
fat in the meat, and this must be supplied. A piece of 
salt pork, or bacon or even fresh lean pork is needed 
to give the necessary fat. 

Fricasseed Quail — Stew the quail until the meat is 
ready to fall from the bones. Brown in fat and make 
a rich, thick gravy of the liquor in the kettle. Serve 
with thick biscuit shortcake. 

Quail On Toast — Always have the quail plucked, if 
possible, as they are much better, cut the bird open 
down the back, clean very carefully; steam until ten- 
der, then smother with plenty of butter; salt and 
pepper before steaming; when slightly brown take up 
on hot toast. If sufficient gravy you may omit to 
butter the toast. Serve smoking hot. 

Broiled Quail — ^Clean quail, wipe, and split down 
the back. Sprinkle with salt and pepper; place on 
greased broiler, and cook over dripping pan in hot 
oven twenty minutes. Remove from oven, and broil 
over clear fire until golden brown. Remove from 
broiler, spread with malted butter, sprinkle with 
chopped parsley, and serve on hot platter on bed of 
water cress. 

Quail In Aspic — Cover bottom of mold with aspic 
jelly; decorate with truffles cut in fancy shapes. 
Cover this with liquid aspic; when hard place roasted 
quail on jelly, cover with liquid jelly and chill. Dec- 



54 



GAME AND FISH 



orate sides of top layer with hard cooked white of 
egg cut in crescents. Unmold, garnish with cress 
and serve with Mayonnoise dressing. 

Aspic Jelly — Two quarts consomme, 1 tablespoon 
lemon juice, 2 tablespoons granulated gelatine, cup 
hot water. Boil consomme with lemon juice until 
reduced to one quart. Season well a^id clear. Soak 
gelatine in 2 tablespoons cold water and dissolve in 
hot water, add to clear consomme, strain, and use as 
a mold. 

RABBIT 

Rabbit dishes are excellent if properly prepared and 
cooked and served. When dressing rabbit be careful 
to remove every part that might add to its strong 
flavor. Parboiling and changing the water, three or 
four times will take away almost all the strong game 
taste to which some people object, and which some 
others like. To make rabbit pot-pie, simmer rabbit 
with onions, salt and pepper, until tender. It is 
sometimes an improvement to brown the meat first 
slightly, serve with dumplings cooked on top of the 
stew. 

Broiled Rabbit — Soak over night in cold water with 
a pinch of salt added. Wipe dry. Rub flour, butter 
and salt over the rabbit, and broil by turning all the 
time over a steady, hot coal fire. 

Roasted Rabbit — Roasted rabbit is very good, but 
care must be taken to wipe very clean. Rub flour, 
butter, salt and pepper into the flesh; tie pieces of 
pork or bacon all over the rabbit, or fasten in some 
way so they will stay in place. Cover the rabbit with 
paper, or thick paste where the portions are small, to 



CULINARY RECIPES 



55 



keep from drying out. Take out and test once in a 
while, that it may not be overdone. Serve with jelly 
or tart sauce. 

Rabbit a la Marengo (Mrs. Frank Free) — Separate 
a carefully washed and dried rabbit into eight pieces, 
four leg and four body pieces. Discard rib bones and 
all tendons possible. Season the pieces with pepper 
and salt and roll in flour. Heat equal parts (about 
three tablespoons each) of clarified butter and olive 
oil in a frying pan; put in the joints of rabbit and let 
cook, turning when needed, to a golden brown. Drain 
the fat from the pan, add %. cup of Sauterne and let 
this reduce. Heat 3 tablespoons of fat from the pan, 
stir in 3 tablespoons of flour, ^ teaspoon of salt and 
14 of pepper, then add cup each of tomato puree 
and rick brown stock, flavored with vegetables and 
herbs. Pour this over the rabbit and let simmer 45 
minutes. Dispose a flat bed of mashed patotoes on a 
serving dish; on this set the pieces of rabbit; skim all 
fat from the sauce and strain it over the rabbit. Set 
some crescent-shaped croutons of bread around the 
edge. Peeled mushroom caps, with a bit of butter in 
the center of each, baked ten minutes, may be set in 
groups between the croutons. 

FISH 

To Cook Fish in Camp, Doughnut Style — Drop 
fish, well seasoned, into boiling bacon grease. 

To Fry Fish — Clean fish and dry it; sprinkle with 
salt, dip in meal, flour or crumbs, then in egg and 
again in flour or crumbs and fry in deep fat. Fish 
may be seasoned, rolled in meal and sauted in a fry- 
ing pan, using butter or pork fat. 



56 



GAME AND FISH 



Sauted Trout — Wash and wipe the fish. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dip in olive oil, roll in corn- 
meal, and saute until brown and crisp in butter or 
lard. Drain on brown paper. Serve on hot platter, 
and garnish with lemon and water cress. All kinds 
of fish may be cooked in the same manner. 

Baked Fish — Clean, rinse and wipe dry, a white 
fish weighing about four pounds. Rub the fish inside 
and out with salt and pepper, fill with a dressing, 
such as is used for poultry, but drier, sew up the fish 
and put in a hot pan, with some drippings and a 
lump of butter, dredge with flour, and lay over the 
fish a few thin slices of salt pork or bacon, and bake, 
basting frequently. Serve with white sauce. 

Baked Black Bass^ — Wash the fish in salt water, 
make dressing of bread crumbs, butter and yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs, mix with warm water (some add 
onion chopped fine), fill the fish, tie with cord, put in 
the dripping pan with a small piece of lard, make a 
paste of butter and flour, put on fish, bake 30 min- 
utes in quick oven. 

To Cook Fish Over Open Fire (Boy Scout Style) 

— Clean and dry fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
pin a slice of bacon on each side of fish with tooth- 
picks, and broil slowly over open fire, using green 
forked stick or wire, as a spit. 

Fish Sauce — ^Piece of butter the size of 2 eggs, 
melt and mix with >4 teaspoonful of vinegar, 2 must- 
ard spoonsful of made mustard, a little salt and 1 
well beaten egg. Cook in double boiler, stirring until 
it thickens smoothly. 

Fish Sauce — One-fourth pound of fresh butter, 1 



CULINARY RECIPES 



57 



tablespoonful finely chopped parsley, salt and pepper, 
juice of two lemons, cream the butter, cook, add 
lemon juice. 

To Cook Fish in Camp; Doughnut Style (J. F. 
Adams, of Pratt-Gilbert Co.) — Bony-tail, (Verde 
trout), suckers and carp, because of their names, a 
great many are prejudiced against them, however, if 
cooked as follows they will be found very good and 
this is true especially with the bony-tail. Do not skin 
and do not remove fins or tail. Clean and dry with a 
cloth, cut with a sharp knife just through the skin the 
entire length of the fish three or four times, this will 
cut the small bones. Season well with salt and pep- 
per, dip in corn meal and drop fish into boiling bacon 
grease. 

To Boil a Large Fresh Fish — Wash and clean well, 
tie in a cloth, plunge into a kettle of boiling water, 
in which stir 1 tablespoonful of salt. 

Sauce — Six hard-boiled eggs chopper very fine, 2 
tablespoonsful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of pepper, 1 
of salt, a little mustard , enough sweet milk to make 
into a gravy, pour over the fish after removing the 
cloth. 

Steamed Gila Salmon — Wrap four pouds of salmon 
in a piece of cheesecloth. Set in a plate in a steamer 
and cook until fish separates from the bone — from 45 
to 60 minutes, according to thickness of fish. All 
other fish may be steamed in the same way. 

Fresh Fish Cakes — Two cups of cooked fresh fish, 
2 cups hot mashed potato, 1 tablespoon butter, % cup 
milk, teaspoon pepper, ^ teaspoon salt. Simmer 
fish until tender, drain and chop, add mashed potato 



58 



GAME AND FISH 



and seasonings, beat well, shape into round flat cakes, 
and saute in hot pork fat. 

Gamishings for Fish — Parsley, lemon slices, lemon 
baskets, lemon slices springled with finely chopped 
parsley, chopped red or green pepper, potato balls, 
olives, hard-cooked eggs, capers, and pickles cut 
lengthwise and spreal to resemble a fan; mashed po- 
tato and mushrooms, cucumbers and tomatoes; maitre 
d’hotel butter and water cress. 

Fish Timbales — One-half cup soft bread crumbs, ^ 
cup rich milk, % cup cream, 2 tablespoons anchovy 
essence, 1 teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon paprika, 2 cups 
cooked fish, chopped, 3 egg-whites beaten dry. Cook 
the crumbs in the milk to a smooth paste, add the 
cream and seasonings and mix thoroughly; then beat 
in the fish and fold in the egg-whites. Turn into a 
buttered mold. Cook in a dish of boiling water, on 
many folds of paper, until firm in the center. Serve 
with Hollandaise sauce. 

Hollandaise Sauce — Beat ^ cup of butter to a 
cream, add two yolks one after another and beat each 
in thoroughly; add %. teaspoonful each of salt and 
paprika and Yz cup of boiling water; cook over hot 
water, stirring constantly until thickened slightly; 
add the juice of half a small lemon and serve at once. 
Too long cooking will cause the sauce to curdle. 

Maitre d’Hotel Butter for Broiled Fish — Beat ^ 
cup of butter to a cream, beat in teaspoon of salt, 
a dash of pepper, and very slowly, a tablespoonful of 
lemon juice. The heat of the broiled fish will melt 
the butter. For a change add a tablespoonful of fine 
chopped parsley with the seasonings. 



CULINARY RECIPES 



59 




SALT RIVER AT MORMON FLATS 

Crappie, perch, Verde trout and catfish are plenti- 
ful here; beautiful camp sites; Maricopa county 



62 



MEMORANDA 




MEMORANDA 






» " .i -i ' " 




COLBURN’S 




STUDIO 



BIRDS, MAMMALS, 
FISH, RUGS, 

FUR ROBES 
GAME HEADS 

Permanently Mounted 
and Moth-Proof. 





Tanned, Dressed, Cleaned 
and Remodeled. Buckskin 
Tanned. Price List or Cata- 
logue on Request. 

COLBURN’S 
TAXIDERMY STUDIO 
933-935 South Broadway 
Los Angeles, Cal. 



ARIZONA 



Game and Fish 
Laws 



AND 

Commission’s Orders 




iHt UtSKAliV if THE 



5 - 



UNIVERSITY OF 



Compiled by 

ARIZONA GAME AND FISH 
COMMISSION 

Chas. P. Beacli, Chairman, Vail 
George Wrench, Member, Winslow 
Thos. J. Imler, Member, Phoenix 
Wm. H. Sawtelle, Secretary and State 
Game Warden, Phoenix 



341 

llinois 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2015 



/ 

https://archive.org/details/arizonafishgamel1939ariz 



Rlfd@i!BBE®!r©RAGE 

S portsmen and others desirous of aiding 
the work of enforcing the Game and Fish 
Laws in Arizona are urgently requested to send 
particulars of such cases of violation of the laws 
as may come under their notice to the State 
Came Warden. 

PLEASE NOTE 

It is the duty of the State Game Depart- 
ment to enforce the Game and Fish Laws of 
Arizona. In the exercise of this duty the De 
partment seeks the cooperation and support of 
all lovers of nature in the State, not only from 
them as individuals but also from their org'ani- 
zations. The Department is supported by the 
license fees paid in by the sportsmen of the 
Sta^e and has no other source of income. What- 
ever funds can be spared from the enforcement 
activities of this Department are used for con- 
servation and propagation purposes. By keep- 
ing within the law the individual lessens the 
need for enforcement expense, and by assist- 
; ing the Department in apprehending those 
'who refuse to obey the law he lends himself to 
the same end. This is your Department; co- 
o^perate with it as it stands ready to do with 
you, and we will all have better hunting and 
fishing. 



2 ARIZONA GAME LAWS 

IMPORTANT 

OPEN SEASONS AND BAG LIMITS 
Revised to Dec. 1, 1939 

The Arizona Game and Fish Commission has 
authority under Section 4 .to close, shorten or 
alter the open seasons or bag limits. 

The following is a correct summary of sea- 
sons, bag limits and miscellaneous regulations, 
as of Dec. 1, 1939. This takes precedence over 
any information on seasons and bag limits con- ' 
tained in the Game and Fish Laws. . 

OPEN SEASON 

Where any variance occurs between the rega- { 
lations listed herein and those set out in the 
State Code, this summary supersedes by reason t 
of the fact that the Arizona Game and Fish i 
Commission has the power to regulate and ^ 
change seasons and bag limits. 

One Deer with pronged antlers may be taken 
from October 16 to November 15, inclusive, 
with a rifle only; bullet weight not less than 87 ; 
grains. ! 

One Grown Bear may be taken from October v 
16 to November 15, inclusive, with rifle only; I 
bullet weight not less than 87 grains. Dogs may 
be used in taking bear. * * { 

Two Turkeys may be taken from October 16 ^ 
to November 15, inclusive, WITH A RIFLE ON- 
LY, except that bow and arrow may be used in 
limited area prescribed by Commission. Wild tur- 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



3 



keys are classed as big game in Arizona. Illegal 
to take turkeys in any part of YAVAPAI COUN- 
TY or in COCONINO COUNTY north of High- 
way 66 between old Grand Canyon road, run- 
rung north from Bellmont, and Highway 89. * 
Illegal to take Biacktail or Mule Deer, Bear 
and Turkey south of the following described 
boundary: 

Beginning at the New Mexico-Arizona State 
Line; thence following the Gila River to Coolidge 
Dam; thence along U. S. Highway 70 to Super- 
ior; thence south along the Superior-Kelvin 
Road to the Gila River; thence following the 
Gila River to the Arizona-California State Line. 

Special Permit |Elk Season - November 18th 
to December 10th, inclusive. Resident permit, 
$15; Non-resident Permit, $25. Detailed infor- 
mation available by writing State Game Depart- 
ment. 

Bear, Deer and Turkey may be taken during 
the 1939 season with Bow and Arrow in that 
portion of Gila County bounded on the north by 
the Mogollon Rim Road; on the west by the 
Pleasant Valley Highway; on the south by the 
^ Salt River; and on the east by the Fort Apache 
Indian Reservation. Detailed information avaii- 
1 able by writing to State Game Department, 
j Quail — November 1 to November 15 inclusive, 

i Bag limit, 10 per day or in possession, 
i Cottontail Rabbits — November 1 to January 
j 31, inclusive, in Apache, Navajo, Coconino and 
1 Yavapai Counties; rest of state, season open all 
1 year. Bag limit, entire state, 6 per day or in 
' possession. 



4 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Jackrabbits — No closed season. No bag limit. 
Muskrats, Raccoons and Opossums, November 
1 to Marcih 1. 

Closed Season on following species: 



White-Winged Dove, Mourning Dove, Band- 
Tailed' Pigeon, and Waterfowl s-easons set each 
year by Federal Government. 



Trout of all species may be taken from May 
27 to September 20, inclusive, Except Trout 
season Cochinse County shall be April 1st to 
July 31st, 1939, inclusive. ALL TROUT 

CAUGHT, regardless of length, must be kept by 
the fisherman and counted as part of his bag 
limit. BAG LIMIT, 15 fish, providing total 
w'eight is not more than 10 pounds and one fish 
per day or in possession. SPECIAL BAG LIMIT 



Antelope 
Spike bucks 
Female deer 
Big horn sheep 
Javelina 
Bear cubs 
Tree squirrels 
Grouse 



Chukar partridge 
Pheasants 

Mearns or fool quail 

Masked bob white 

Song and insectivorous birds 

.Bullfrogs 

Otter 

Beaver 



MIGRATORY BIRDS 



FISHING REGULATIONS 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



5 



on trout in Oak Creek and Grand Canyon Na- 
tional Park, Do per day or in possession. Not 
over 60 trout may be taken in any seven day 
period. Fishing for t-rout prohibited from 9:00 
p. m. to 4:00 a. m. 

Bass may be taken all year. Bag limit, 10 
fish, providing total weigh tis not more than 15 
pounds and one fish per day or in possession. 
LEGAL LENGTH, 10 INCHES. 

Channel Catfish may be taken all year. Bag 
limit 10 fish, providing total weight is not more 
than 15 pounds and one fish per day or in pos- 
session. LEGAL LENGTH, 12 INCHES. 

Crappie, Blue Gills, Bream, Sunfish (Perch), 
Stripped Bass and Bullheads or Mudcats may be 
taken all year. Bag limits, 20 in the aggregate 
not to exceed 20 pounds and one fish per day 
or in possession. 

No Bag Limit or closed season on CARP, 
SUCKERS, RING PERCH OR CHARRS, Com- 
monly called Verde trout. 

No Fishing Allowed: 

In Salt River from Cibicue Creek to place 
where Salt River empties into Roosevelt Lake, 

Within 100 yards below Horse Mesa, Mormon 
Flat, and Roosevelt Dams, 



6 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



From Stewart Mounf^ain Dam to Blue Point 
Bridge on the Salt River. 

Within 100 yards above or one mile below 
Coolidge Dam. 

In San Francisco River from its junction with 
Blue River down to its junction with Gila River. 

Live Bait may not be used in any lake in 
Coconino County, nor in the Agua Fria River, 
either above or below CARL PLEASANT DAM> 
Prohibition of live bait intended to prevent in- 
troduction of undesirable fish in certain waters. 

No Fishing allowed in waters containing pro- 
tected trout except during trout season. 

Fish may be legally taken ONLY with hook 
and line HELD IN HAND, or attached .to rod 
or pole HELD IN HAND. 

Seining non-game minnows for personal use 
legal ONLY WITH PERMIT. 

Fishing Waters are subject to annual change. 
Farnilarlze yourself with the current regulations. 

GENERAL REGULATIONS 

A Validi License is necessary for any person 
to take any fish, game or birds in this state. 

All Birds may be taken with a shotgun only, 
not larger than No. 12 gauge, except that in 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



7 



taking MIGRATORY BIRDS^ repieating or auto- 
mat'ic shotguns must be plugged to a limit of 
three shells; meaning two in the magazine and 
one in the barrel. (Turkey to be taken with 
rifle only.) 

Deer Tags and Turkey Stubs MUST BE AT- 
TACHED to the antlers of deer and feet of tur- 
keys IMMEDIATELY when killed to avoid pen- 
alty; required stubs MUST be mailed to State 
Game Warden. 

No Shooting on, from or across any public 
highway, — or from any automobile or power 
boat. 

One Day’s bag limit of game birds, game an- 
imals or fish may be possessed for 20' days 
after the end of the open season thereon, EX- 
CEPT that two days bag limit of migratory 
birds may be possessed for not more than TEN 
DAYS after the closing date of the season. 

No Hunting allowed on game refuges. 

Illegal to hunt or fish with the use of an arti- 
ficial light. 

Illegal to use shotgun larger than 12 gauge. 

Illegal toi ship game or fish without, shipping 
permit. 

Illegal to carry gun on refuge except under 
permit. 



8 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Illegal to use silencing device on any firearm. 

Illegal to fail to report game law violations. 

Illegal to shoot within one-eighth mile of housel 
or building without permission of owner or res- 
ident. 

I Me gal to remove evidence of sex or legality 
from game animals or birds. 

Illegal to take game animals or birds with 
metal-cased bullet. 

Illegal to act as guide for hunters without 
first obtaining GUIDE LICENSE. ' 

Illegal for guides to carry guns while guiding 
hunters. 

Illegal to take or run any big game animat 
EXCEPT BEAR with the aid of dogs. | 

Illegal to dynamite, poison or pollute waters. 
!n any manner which endangers the lives of fish. 

Illegal to buy, sell or offer for sale any game 
animal, bird or game fish. ; 

Take Only Your Share of the Game Your*! 

license does not permit you to shoot or fish for] 
another. ! 

Licenses of convicted game law violators caUj 
be revoked by the Commission at their discretion 
for periods of from one to ten year§. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 

ARIZONA GAME REFUGES 



D 



REFUGE 

Alamo 

American Ranch 

Apache Lake.... 

Arivaipa 

Ash Creek 

Baboquivari 

Banfield Springs 

Big Lake .. 

Blue Hill 

Boulder Canyon 

Brushy 

Burnt Ranch 

Bush Highway 

Cabin Draw 

Cahava 

Camelback 

Chiricahua 

Coconino Turkey .... 

Coon Bluff 

Copper Basin c... 

Cottonwood 

Cottonwood Canyon 

Desert Wells 

Eagle Creek 

Ei Dorado 



COUNTV 

Gila 

...Yavapai 
Maricopa 
. Graham 
. Yavapai 

Pima 

Coconino 
- Apache 

Gila 

.. Mohave 
.. Navajo 
. Yavapai 
Maricopa 
Coconino 
Maricopa 
Maricopa 
.. Cochise 
Coconino 
Maricopa 
. Yavapai 

Gila 

. Yavapai 
Maricopa 
Greenlee 
.. Cochise 



10 ARIZONA GAME LAWS 

Escudilla - ^ Apache 

Fish Creek Maricopa 

Gentry Navajr 

Granite Basin Yavapai 

Harquahala Maricopa 

House Rock Valley Coconino 

Horse Thief Basin Yavapai 

Huachuca Cochise 

Hull Tank Coconino 

Indian Garden Gila 

Jones Mountain Coconino 

Kaibab , Coconino 

Lime Creek Yavapai 

Long Valley Gila 

Los Burros ^ Apache 

Mahan Mountain Coconind 

Marijilda Graham 

Mayer , Yavapa^ 

Miami Gila 

Middle Mountain Apache 

Mingus Mountain , Yavapai 

Mormon Mountain Coconino 

Mt. Fagan Pima^ 

Mt. Graham Graham 

Mt. Trumbull Mohavel 

Munds Park Coconino^ 

Oracle Pinal 

Papago Park Maricopa' 

Phoenix South Mountain Maricopa 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 11 

Picket Post - Pinal 

Pinal - Gila 

Pinto Creek No. 1 Gila 

Pinto Creek No. 2 Gila 

Quail Springs ----- Yavapai 

Pambo Wash Gila 

Rock Springs Yavapai & Maricopa 

Ruby - Santa Cruz 

Roosevelt Lake Gila 

San Francisco Peak Coconino 

San Rafael Santa Ct*uz 

Santa Catalina - -. Pima 

Santa Rita - - Pima 

Seven Springs Maricopa & Yavapai 

Sheep Trail - Gila 

, Tucson Mountain Pima 

Tuscumbia - Yavapai 

Walker Creek Yavapai 

Wallapai Mohave 

I Walnut Creek Yavapai 

i Walnut Creek Area Yavapai 

f Water Canyon Apache 

' Wickenburg - Maricopa 

; Wilbur Canyon - Coconino 

; Willdams Coconino 

I Winslow Navajo 

, Wood Camp Gila 



12 



.ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



TURICEY REFUGES 

Water holes and springs closed within 200 



yards to campers and shoo'^ing. 

Bar D Tank Coconino 

Barney Springs , Cocnnino 

Coconino (N. of Hwy. 66) Coconino 

Kelsey Springs Coconino 

Lockwood Springs Coconino 

Mahan Mt. Coconino 

New Tank Coconino 

Sheep Springs Coconino 



Hunting upon State or National GameJ 
Refuges forbidden, but fishing is allowed. • 

Closed fishing waters are plainly posted. 

Shooting upon, from or across any public- 
highway prohibited. , 

ARIZONA GAME AND FISH LAWS 
CHAPTER 84 

Session Laws 1929 5 

As amended [ 

Secion 1 | 

DEFINITIONS I 

Terms as used here shall mean: To ‘‘Take”f 
birds, animals, or fish, or birds^ nests or eggs, 
or spawn or eggs of fish, shall mean the pur- 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 






suit, huiLing, capture, or killing of birds, ani- 
mals, or fish, or collection of birds, nests or 
eggs, or spawn or eggs of fish, and shall in- 
clude pursuing, shooting, hunting, killing, cap- 
turing, taking, snaring, netting, and all lesser 
acts, such as disturbing or annoying, or placing 
or using any net or other device. "‘Trap or 
trapping'^ shall mean taking in any manner 
except with gun or implement in hand. ^‘Angl- 
ing'^ is the taking of fish by hook and line in 
hand or rod in hand. ‘^Open season’^ is the time 
during which birds, animals or fish may be law- 
fully taken, and includes the first and last days 
thereof. ^‘Closed season’’ is the time during v/hich 
birds, animals, or fish may not be taken. ‘‘Game” 
includes game animals, game birds and game 
fish. “Game animals” are: Deer, elk, antelope, 
mountain sheep, buffalo, peccary or javelina 
tree squirrels, rabbits and bears of all kinds. 
‘^Big game” are: Wild turkey, deer, elk, ante- 
I lope, mountain sheep, buffalo, peccary or jave- 
lina and bear. “Small game” are game birds of 
. all kinds except wild turkey and all game animals 
not listed as big game. “l ur bearing animals” 
|; are: Muskrats, raccoons, oppossums, otters, 

r mink, martens, beavers, badgers, and ringtail 
p cats. “Predatory animals” are : Foxes, skunks, 



14 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



mountain lions, coyotes, wolves, jaguars, weas- 
els, bobcats, lynxcats, and ocelots. “Non-game 
animals’^ are all wild animals except game ani- 
mals, fur bearing animals and predatory ani- 
mals. “Upland game Birds'^ are: Quail, part- 
ridge, wild turkey, grouse, pheasants. “Migra- 
tory game birds’^ are: Anatidae or water fowl, 
including brant, wild ducks, geese and swans, 
gruidae or cranes, including little brown and . 
sand hill and whooping cranes, rallidae or rails, ^ 
including coots, gallinules and sora and other ; 
rails, limicolae or shore birds, including avocets, ' 
curlews, dowitchers, godwits, white-winged 
doves and mourning doves, knots, oyster catch- ^ 
ers, pararopes, plovers, sandpipers, snipes, stilts, 
surf birds, turnstones, willets and yellow-legs; | 
and columbidae, or pigeons, including doves and 
wild pigeons. “Non-game birds’’ are: All wild , 
birds except upland game birds and migratory 
game birds. “Game fish” are: Trout of all spe- | 
cies, including charrs, small and large mouth- \ 
ed black bass, crappie, yellow perch and cat ‘ 
fish; and the wild bullfrog. “Non-game fish” [ 
are: All the sipecies of fish except game fish. ^ 
(Am. Ch. 93, L. ’33). [’36 Supplement § 1530] 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 15 

Section 2 

ARIZONA GAME AND FISH COMMISSION 

The affairs of the state relating to fish and 
game shall be administered by the Arizona 
Game and Fish Commission, hereinafter re- 
ferred to as the commission. The commission 
shall consist of three members, not more than 
two of whom shall be of the same political 
party. The members shall be appointed by the 
governor within thirty days from the time this 
act shall take effect; the first, second and third 
members of the commission shall serve respect- 
ively until the first Mondays in January of 
1931, 1933 and 1935. Their successors shall 
be appointed to serve for the term, of six years. 
The commission shall elect one of its members 
chairman of the commission for the term of two 
years. The governor may^ after hearing, re- 
move a commissioner for inefficiency, neglect of 
duty or misconduct in office; if removed, the 
governor shall file in the office of the secretary 
of state a complete statement of all charges 
made against such commissioner and his find- 
ings thereon, together with a complete record 
of the proceedings. No person shall be ap- 
pointed a member of the commission, unless he 



16 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



shall be well informed on the subject of wild 
life, and the requirements for the conservation 
of animals, birds and fish. 

The members of the commission shall each 
receive a yearly salary of one dollar and all ac- 
tual and necessary traveling and other expenses, 
not exceeding one thousand dollars in any one 
calendar year, each, incurred or made by him in 
the discharge of his official duties, to be paid 
monthly from the game and fish protection 
fund. Each commissioner shall give bond to 
the state in the sum of five thousand dollars, 
conditioned for the faithful performance of his 
duties, the premium therefor to be paid from 
the state game and fish protection fund. [’36 
Supplement § 1531] 

Section 3 

OFFICE AND PLACE OF HEARING 

The commission shall have it principal office 
at the state capitol, but meetings of the com- 
mission may be held at any time or place within 
the state. Any investigation, inquiry or hear- 
ing which the commission may undertake or 
hold may be undertaken or held by or before 
any commissioner or the secretary of the com- 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



17 



mission, and the same shall be deemed to be 
the investigations, inquiries, hearings and de- 
cisions of the commission, when approved by it 
and entered by it in its minute book, and every 
order made by a commissioner or the secretary 
of the commission, when approved and con- 
firmed by ^he commission and ordered filed in 
its office, shall be deemed to be the order of 
the commission. [’36 Supplement § 1532] 

Section 4 

GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES 
OF COMMISSION 

The commission shall meet at the capitol witli- 
in thirty days after this act takes effect and 
organize, and thereafter at least one meeting 
shall be held annually; other meetings may be 
held at the call of the chairman or a majority 
of the commission. The commission shall make 
such rules and regulations and establish such 
services as it may deem necessary to carry out 
the iprovisions and purposes of this act. 

The commission shall have charge, control 
and management of the propagation and distri- 
bution of wild birds, wild animals, and fish. It 
shall have the conduct and control of all hatch- 



18 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



ing stations and game farms owned, operated, 
or hereafter acquired by the state, may issue 
permits and licenses to persons to operate game 
farms and fish hatcheries, regulate the same 
and revoke such permits or licenses for non- 
compliance with its orders. It shall have charge 
of the enforcement of all laws for the pro- 
tection of wild birds, wild animals and fish. 
It shall have the exclusive power to expend for 
the protection, preservation, or proipagation of 
game birds, game animals, and fish, all funds of 
the state acquired for the protection, preserva- 
tion, or propagation of birds, animals, or fish, 
arising from appropriations, licenses, gifts, or 
other sources. It may in the name of the state, 
with the approval of the governor, acquire by 
purchase, gift, or condemnation, lands and wa- 
ter for the use as fish hatcheries or game 
farms, and areas suitable for game refuges, 
hunting ground, or for any other purpose nec- 
essary to carry out the provisions of this act. It 
may purchase animals, birds, and fish and fish 
spawn or eggs for the purpose of stocking pub- 
lic lands and waters of the state, and sell fish 
and fingerlings to stock private waters, and 
may take at any time in any manner, animals, 
birds^ eggs, fish and eggs and milt of fish for 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



19 



propagation and re-stocking purposes, or for 
use at a state game farm or fish lhatchery. 

The commission may by order close, shorten, 
or alter the open season or bag limits, prescrib- 
ed by this act for any species of game animal, 
game bird, or game fish whenever it has good 
reason to believe that such species of animal, 
bird or fish is threa‘ ened by depletion or re- 
quires additional or other protection than that 
specifically afforded by the provisions of this 
act; such order may be made to apply through- 
out the state, or to a particular part thereof, 
or to a particular stream or lake or part there- 
of. The commission may estabL^h and open 
refuges and safe sanctuaries in wnrcn ^ame, lur 
bearing animals and birds may breed an re- 
plenish adjacent areas, and may designate cer- 
tain areas as rest grounds, for migratory birds 
in which hunting shall be forbidden or restricted 
at such times as the commission may designate, 
endeavoring as much as possible to establish 
small refuges rather than Isirge preserves, not 
to close large areas to hunting, nor to interfere 
unnecessarily with the hunting of migratory 
birds, but to provide havens in which they can 
rest and feed without molestation. The preced- 



20 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



ing sentence shall not apply to the Blue Range 
game preserve until two years after the effecc- 
ive date of this act. The commission may re- 
move or permit to be removed from public or 
private waters fish which hinder or prevent the 
propagation of game or food fish, and fish so 
taken may be disposed of in such manner as it 
may designate. 

No person shall plant any game fish or other 
fish, fish fry, or Sipawn in any of the bodies 
of water in the state, nor introduce nor liberate 
any game birds or game animals, or any other 
wild anim^als, on the lands or in the coverts of 
the state without the written consent of the 
commission. The commission may enter into 
cooperative agreement with any federal de- 
partment having jurisdiction over any federally 
controlled game refuges in Arizona, in carry- 
ing out such rules and regulations as may be 
established by such department for the pro- 
tection and perpetuation of game animals there- 
on, or for the disposition of surplus game ani- 
mals therefrom, and it shall be lawful to pos- 
sess, or remove from the state any animals 
killed or captured in compliance with such 
agreement or regulation, when such animals are 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



21 



ta£?:gecl or marked as to establish their identity 
as animals taken on such federal land. 

When it is proven to the satisfaction of the 
commission that game birds or game animals or 
furbearing animals are ma“^erially destroying 
property, or otherwise becoming a nuisance, or 
the sexes are not balanced properly^ or the na- 
tural food supply is insufficient or that hunting 
or trapping in addition to the regular open sea- 
son, provided by this and other acts heretofore, 
may be permLted without jeopardizing the fu- 
ture supply of game or furbearing animals of 
any kind in any section of the state, the com- 
mission may at any time remove or have re- 
moved such animals or birds from that section, 
or may direct or authorize the taking of such 
birds or animals, or grant an extension of the 
open season, or permit additional hunting or 
trapping, under sueh rules governing seasons, 
bag limits, methods of taking and other regula- 
tions as the case may require, regardless of 
(protection afforded or open seasons or bag 
limits fixed by this and other acts heretofore. 
(Am. Ch. 97, L. ^31; Am. Ch. 93, L. ^33.) [’36 
Supplement § 1533.] 



‘29 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Section 5 

PUBLICATION OF ORDERS AND REGULA- 
TIONS OF COMMISSION; SIGNBOARDS OR 
REFUGES; POSTED LANDS 

Rul-es, regulations, and orders of the com- 
mission having general application throughout 
the state shall be published in such manner as 
the commission may determine so as to give 
them general publicity; those of special char- 
acter having local application only shall be pub- 
lished once in some newspaper published in 
and having general circulation in the locality 
wherein such rules, regulations, and orders 
are applicable and a copy of such rules, regu- 
lations, and orders shall be posted in three 
regulations, and orders shall be posted in three 
conspicuous places in the locality in which they 
are applicable. Notices or signboards not less 
than one foot square shall be conspicuouslv 
posted by the commission close to and along the 
entire boundary of any refuge, sanctuary, rest 
ground, lake or stream or portion '^hereof closed 
to hunting or fishing by orders of the com 
mission, warning all persons against hunting, 
fishing, or trespassing therein. As many of 
such notices or signboards shall be posted as 



ARIZONA GAMK LAWS 



23 



the commission may determine to be best cal- 
culated to give public notice of the location of 
the boundaries of such refuge, sanctuary, rest 
ground or other closed area. An order of the 
commission closing any area to hunting or fish- 
ing shall not become effective until such order 
has been published as herein required, and a 
certified copy of the order filed in the office 
of the recorder of the county or counties in 
which such closed area is located. 

No person shall take or destroy any animal, 
bird, or fish, or bird^s nest or egg, or eggs or 
spawn of fish on any refuge, sanctuary, rest 
ground, or other area closed to hunting or fish- 
ing by order of the commission ; provided, it 
shall be lawful for a duly accredited employee 
of the state, or of the federal government, to 
take predatory animals or rodents on any such 
closed area. 

It shall be unlawful to carry firearms on any 
refuge, sanctuary, or rest ground closed to 
hunting by order of the commission except 
under seal, or by written consent, of the com- 
mission or except while in transit on such high- 
way or highways as may traverse such area; 
but this shall not prohibit real property owners 



24 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



residing permanently on any refuge, sanctuary, 
or rest ground, nor cattle or sheep owners, or 
their employees whose range is on any refuge, 
sanctuary or rest ground from possessing fire- 
arms thereon, nor shall it apply to areas on 
which certain game animals or game fish or 
game birds are allowed lawfully to be taken. 
Landowners desiring to prohibit hun'^ing or 
shooting on their lands shall post such lands, 
using a notice or signboard not less than one 
foot square with the wording of the same plain- 
ly legible. Such notices or signboards shall be 
placed in such manner as to be most cons<picu- 
ous and at not more than quarter-mile inter- 
vals. State lands under lease may not be 
posted except by consent of the commission. 
(Am. Ch. 97, L. ^31; Am. Ch. 93, L. ^33) [^36 
Supplement § 1534] 

Section 6 

STATE GAME AND FISH WARDEN 

SALARY 

The commission shall appoint a state game 
and fish warden who shall possess a thorough 
knowledge of animals, birds and fish, and the 
requirements for their conservation. The state 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



25 



game and fish warden shall act as secretary to 
the commission and shall serve for a term ot 
four years, unless removed by the commission, 
after hearing*, for inefficiency, neglect of duty 
or misconduct in office. If removed, the com- 
mission shall file in the office of the secretary 
of state a complete statement of all charges 
made against him and its findings thereon, to- 
gether with a complete recora of the proceed- 
ings. The state game and fish warden shall not 
hold any other office, and shall devote his en- 
tire time to the duties of his oifice. The state 
game and fish warden shall receive an annual 
salary as fixed by the commission, not exceed- 
ing thirty-six hundred dollars, his actual neces- 
sary travel and other expenses and disburse- 
ments, not exceeding twelve hundred dollars in 
any one calendar year, to be paid from the game 
and fish protection fund. [’36 Supplement § 
1535.] 

Section 7 

DIEPUTY WARDENS; SALARY 

The state game and fish warden may appoint, 
with the approval of the commission, deputy 
wardens, for the payment of whose salary 
money is available in the game and fish pro- 



26 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



tection fund. The deputies shall be located in 
the different sections of the state where their 
services are most needed. The commission shall 
fix the salaries of the deputy wardens, provid- 
ed however, that they shall not receive more 
than one hundred eighty dollars per month dur- 
ing their first two years of service, nor more 
than two hundred dollars per month for their 
second to fourth years, no more than two hun- 
dred twenty dollars for their fourth to sixth 
years in the department, and special deputies 
shall receive not more than one hundred fifty 
collars per month; provided further that they 
shall be paid their actual and necessary travel- 
ing expenses incurred in the performance of 
their duties, not exceeding sixty dollars during 
any one month. The salaries and expenses of 
the deputies shall be paid out of the game and 
fish protection fund. ['36 Supplement § 1536.] 

Section 8 

POLITICAL ACTIVITY PROHIBTED 

The state game and fish warden or a paid 
deputy warden shall not take any active part 
other than to privately express his opinions in 
any political campaign, or use his office or in- 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



27 



fiuence in interfering with an election or affect- 
ing the results thereof. ['36 Supplement § 1537.] 

Section 9 

BOND OF WARDEN AND DEPUTIES 

The State game and fish warden shall give 
to the state a bond in the sum of ten thousand 
dollars, and each depu'^y, except special deputies 
serving w’thout pay, shall give to the state a 
bon'd in the sum of one thousand dollars, con- 
ditioned for the faithful performance of their 
duties; the premium therefor to be paid out of 
the state game and fish protection fund. ['36 
Supplement § 1538] 

Section 10 

DUTIES AND POWERS OF WARDEN 
AND DEPUTIES 

The state game and fish warden shall have 
general supervision and control of all deputy 
wardens and under the supervision and direction 
of the commission enforce all provisions of this 
a<"t. The state game and fish warden and his 
deputies may execute all warrants issued for a 
violation of this ac"^ ; serve subpoenas issued in 
any matter arising under this act; and any 



28 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



deputy warden, except peace officers, may 
search without warrant where he has reason- 
able cause to believe that animals, birds, or 
fish, or any part thereof, or the nests or eggs 
of birds, or spawn or eggs of fish, are possessed 
in violation of law, and in such case examine 
without warrant, the contents of any aircraft, 
boat, vehicle, box, locker, basket, crate, game 
bag or other package, and tent or building, other 
than a dwelling house, to ascertain whether any 
of the provisions of this act have been or are 
being violated; seize all animals, birds, or fish, 
or parts thereof, or nests or eggs or birds tak- 
en or possessed in violation of law, or showing 
evidence of illegal taking, and seize and con- 
fiscate all devices illegally used in taking ani- 
mals, birds, or f’sh and firearms illegally pos- 
sessed and to hold the same subject to the order 
of the commission; and generally exercise the 
powers of peace officers in the enforcement of 
this ac”^. [^36 Supplement § 1539.] 

Section 11 

APPLICATION TO FISH OR GAMtE 
TAKEN WITHOUT THE STATE 

Where the possession, transportation, pur- 
chase, or sale of any wild animal, wild bird, or 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



21 ) 



fish, 01 * any part thereof, is restricted or un- 
lawful, the possession, transportation, purchase, 
or sale of such animal, bird or fish, or any 
part thereof coming from or taken without the 
state, whether belonging to the same or a dif- 
ferent species from that native to this state, 
but belonging to the same family as those pro- 
tected by this act, is, unless otherwise herein 
provided, unlawful. ['36 Supplement § 1540.] 

Section 12 

TAKING LIMIT; POSSESSION, SALE AND 
TRANSPORTATION RESTRICTED; HUNT- 
ING WITH DOGS PROHIBITED 

No person shall take any wild bird, wild 
animal, or fish, or the nest or egg of any wild 
:?ird, or the spawn or eggs of fish, or possess, 
buy, sell, offer or expose for sale, or trans^port, 
or receive from another, any such bird, animal, 
or fish, or part thereof, or any bird's nest or 
egg, or any spawn or eggs of fish, except as 
expressly permitted by this act. The possession 
of any game animal, game bird, or game fish, or 
part thereof, in any hotel, restaurant, cafe, 
market or store, shall be prima facie evidence 
of the possession thereof for the purpose of sale 



30 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



in violation of this act, but this provision shall 
not prohibit a person lawfully obtaining such 
game animal, game bird, or game fish from 
having it prepared in a public eating place and 
served to himself and guests or placed in stor- 
age, during the respective open seasons there- 
for and twenty days immediately thereafter. 
Any person may have in his possession not more 
■than twenty-five pounds of dried meat of game 
animals lawfully killed. No person shall take 
or run, with the aid of a dog or dogs, any game 
animal except bear. Any act committed or 
done by a dog or dogs in running a game ani- 
mal shall be deemed a violation of this section, 
for which the owner of the cog shall be liable. 
(Am. Ch. 44 L. '35.) [^36 Supplement § 1541.] 

Section 13 

MANNER OF TAKING SMALL GAME 
ANIMALS, BIRDS AND FISH 

Small game animals and game birds shall be 
taken only in day time between one half hour 
before sunrise and before sunset^with a gun not 
larger than No. 12 gauge, unless otherwise here- 
in specifically permitted, except that game an- 
imals may also be taken with a rifle, without 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



31 



using steel or hard-point bullet. No person shall 
take any game animal, game bird, or game fish, 
by the aid or with the use of any jack-light, or 
other artificial light, net, trap, snare, saltlick, 
scaffold, deadfall, pit, explosive, bird lime or 
poison, nor shall any person use part of any 
protected bird, game animal, or fish as bait in 
taking any wild animal; nor shall birds or ani- 
mals be taken from any vehicle, automobile, air- 
craft, powerboat, sailboa", and boat under sail, 
or any floating device towed by power boat or 
sailboat; nor shall any person shoot any fire- 
arm upon, from or across any public highway 
or railway. A person may take game animals 
and game birds during the open season there- 
for from blinds, and with the aid of dogs and 
use of decoys, unless specifically prohibited 
herein. Fish may be taken only by angling. 

No person shall bait waters for the purpose of 
entrapping migratory water fowl. (Am. Ch. 93, 
L. ’33) [’36 Supplement § 1542.] 

Section 14 

SILENCER. ON FIREARMS PROHIBITEH , 
SINGLE CHARGE; RIFLES OF CERTAIN 

CALIBRE PROHIBITED; CONFISCATION 

It shall be unlawful for any person to take 



32 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



into the field or forest, or to have in his pos- 
session, while hunting wild animals or birds, 
any device designed to silence, muffle or min- 
imize the report of any firearm, whether sep- 
arted from or attached to such firearm. It shall 
be unlawful to kill or attem^pt to kill any deer, 
bear, peccary or javelina except through the 
use of a gun propelling one ball or bullet at a 
single charge. Provided, however, that no ball 
or bullet weighing less than 87 grains may be 
used in taking deer, elk, antelope, mountain 
sheep, peccary or javelina, or bears at any time. 
The gun or implement used by any person in 
illegally killing any song or insectivorous bird 
is a nuisance and may be seized by any peace 
officer and confiscated by the warden for not 
more than one year. (Am. Gh. 93, L. ^33.) [^36 
Supplement § 1543] 

Section 15 

INDIANS PROHIBITED FROM HUNTING 
OR FISHING 

It shall be unlawful for any Indian, who is a 
ward of the Federal Government, to take game 
or fish in this State when off the government 
reservation to which he has been assigned, and 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



33 



no license shall be sol: to any such Indian. (Am. 
Ch. 44 L. ’35). [’36 Supplement § 1544] (De- 
clared unconstitutional by Ariziona Supreme 
Court in case of Cecil Begay vs. W. H. Saw- 
telle.) 



Section 16 

TRANSPORTATION OF GAME OR FUR- 
BEARING ANIMALS, BIRDS, OR FISH BY 
COMMON CARRIER 

No common carrier shall 'ransport any game 
animal, fur bearing animal, game bird, or game 
fish, or any part thereof, or the nest or egg 
of any bird, or receive or possess the same for 
transport, unless the person offering the same 
for shipment exhibits to the carrier, a valid 
license for the taking of the -thing offered for 
shipment, and has securely attached to it a 
valid shipping permit issued hereunder, or a 
coupon detached from such permit. Specimens 
for scientific purposes taken or possessed under 
a regularly issued permit for the collection and 
possession of wild animals, wild birds, their 
nests or eggs, may be received and transported 
to points within or without this state when the 
words ^‘specimens for scientific purposes”, are 
indorsed, on such shipmen^, and a scientific per- 



S4 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



mit is exhibited to the carrier at the time the 
package is offered- for shipment. [^36 Supple- 
ment § 1545] 

Section 17 

RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSPORTATION 
AND IMPORTATION 

A resident of this State may transport within 
the state, during the open season therefor, an- 
imals, birds and fish lawfully taken. A non- 
resident of the state and a holder of a valid 
non-resident hunting, trapping or fishing license, 
may, under a permit issued by the commission, 
transport within the state, or from a point with- 
in to a point without the state, otherwise than 
by parcel post, during '^he open season there- 
for, animals, birds and fish lawfully taken by 
him, or parts thereof; but he shall not transiport 
out of the state more than one male deer and 
two wild turkeys, or more than one day^s bag 
limit in any one calendar week, of other game 
animals, game birds or game fish. A person 
lawfully taking game animals, birds, or fish 
without the state may transport the same or 
parts thereof in'o the state, other than by par- 
cel post, during the open season therefor in tihe 
state 01 - country where taken and within five 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



35 



days thereafter if lawfully brought from the 
place where taken and the package containing 
them has attached thereto, a shipping permit 
issued by the commission. Game animals, birds, 
or fish so imported may be possessed ait any 
time, but migratory game birds brought into 
this s^ate may be possessed only in accordance 
act and regulations thereunder. Transportation 
with the United States migratory bird treaty 
commenced during the open season may be 
completed within five days succeeding such open 
season. Fur or fur bearing animals, except 
beaver, if lawfully taken, and predatory animals, 
non-game animals, non-game fish and birds for 
which no closed season is provided may be pos- 
sessed or transported at any time. [’36 Supple- 
ment § 1546.] 

Section 18 

TRANSPORTATON, SALE AND 
POSSESSION OF SPECIMENS 

A person may transport and possess at any 
time and in any manner the heads, antlers, 
hides, feet or skin of game animals, game birds, 
or game fish, lawfully taken, and buy and sell 
mounted specimens of the same, and the skins 
of game birds and game fish lawfully taken and 



S8 



AM^oNa Game LAWS 



possessed, provided the person selling such 
specimens has a written permit, issued by the 
commission, authorizing him to do so, but the 
skins of migratory game birds may be sold or 
transported only in accordance with the United 
States migratory bird treaty act and regulations 
thereunder. [’36 Supplement § 1547.] 

Section 19 

POSSESSION OF GAME ANIMALS, BIRDS 

AND FISH 

Game animals, game birds and game fish law- 
fully taken, and parts thereof, may be possessed 
during the open season therefor and the first 
twenty days next succeeding the close of such 
open season, but a person may not have in, pos- 
session at any time more than one male deer, 
two wild turkeys, and one day’s bag limit of 
other game animals, game birds and game fish. 
(Am. Ch. 44, L. ’35), [’36 Supplement § 1548.] 

Section 20 

MARKING PACKAGES FOR 
TRANSPORTATION 

Any package in which any game animal, game 
bird or game fish, or part thereof, or egg or 



AraZONA GAME LAWS 



37 



nest of any wild bird, non-game animal, fish or 
bird, or fur bearing animal, is transported shall 
have clearly and conspicuously marked on the 
outside thereof, the names and addresses of the 
consignor and the consignee together with an 
accurate statement of its contents, and the 
number of the shipping permit where such per- 
mit is required. [’36 Supplement § 1549.] 

Section 21 

SALE OF IMPORTED PLUMAGE 
PROHIBITED 

No person shall purchase, offer to purchase, 
sell, offer to sell, expose for sale, or have in 
possession for sale, any bird of paradise, egret, 
or goura pigeon or any feather or any part 
thereof, except when bought, sold or possessed 
for scientific purposes, under a permit issued 
pursuant to this act. [’36 Supplement § 1550.] 

Section 22 

TRAPPERS 

It shall be unlawful for any (person over the 
age of fifteen years to trap for fur-bearing and 
predatory animals in this state, unless such 
person shall first have obtained a state trapper’s 



38 



ARIZOMA GAME LAWS 



license. It shall be unlawful for any alien to 
trap within the state. Every trapper shall keep 
an accurate register of his catches, and he shall 
make a report of the same for the preceding 
year to the State game and fish commission not 
later than January tenth of each year. Each 
trap shall carry a metal tag with the current 
license number of the owner securely attached 
thereto. Daily inspection must be made of 
traps when in use. The traips of any person 
trapping without a license' off his own lands 
shall be seized by the State game and fish 
warden or his deputies and may be sold and the 
money derived from such sale shall be deposited 
in the state game and fish protection fund. [’36 
Supplement § 1551.] 

Section 23 
LICENSE FEES 

Licenses shall be divided into classes and fees 
paid therefor as follows: Class ‘‘A”, resident 
general hunting and fishing license, three dol- 
lars and fifty cents; Class ‘‘B”, resident gen- 
eral hunting license, two dollars and fifty cents; 
Class *^B-1”, resident fishing license, one dollar 
and seventy-five cents; Class ‘‘C”, non-resident 
general hunting and fishing license, twenty- 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



39 



five dollars; Class non-resident fish and 

small game license, ten dollars; Class non- 

resident fishing license, three dollars; Class 
non-resident trapping license, twenty-five dol- 
lars; Class alien general hunting and fish- 

ing license, seventy-five dollars; Class 
alien fish and small game license, thirty dol- 
lars; class special license, alien applicant 

for citizenship, for general hunting, twenty-five 
dollars; Class special license, alien appli- 

cant for citizenship, fishing and small game, 
ten dollars. Classes ‘‘A^^ ^^C^^ ^‘G’’ and in- 
clude all varieties of fish and game; classes 
include all fish and small 
game; class includes all kinds of fish that 

may be taken under this act. An alien appli- 
cant for citizenship may not receive during the 
pendency of his application more than two class 
Qp (ijyy licenses. A resident for the purpose 
of this act is defined to be a citizen of the 
United States who has resided in this State for 
one year immediately preceding application for 
license. A complimentary license may be is- 
sued by the commission to a pioneer seventy 
years of age or older who has been a resident 
of this state for twenty-five or more consecu- 
tive years. If any alien obtains a resident oi 



40 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



non-r'esident license by fraudulent misrepre- 
sentation, or if any non-resident obtains a res- 
ident license by fraudulent misrepresentation, 
such license so fraudulently obtained shall be 
void and of no effect from the date of issuance 
thereof, and such alien or non-resident who shall 
hunt, fish or take any game animal, bird, or fish 
while holding such void license shall be guilty 
of so doing without a license. (Am. Ch. 97, L. 
’31; Ch. 93, L. ’33; and Ch. 44, L. ’35). [’36 
Supplement § 1552.] 

Section 24 

DISPOSITION OF FEES 

The officer issuing the license shall on the 
first Tuesday of each month, transmit to the 
commission, all license fees, with a statement 
setting forth the name and residence of each 
licensee, the serial number and class of and the 
amount 'piaid for each license issued. The of- 
ficers other than the state game and fish war- 
den issuing the license, shall retain as his com- 
pensation, five per cent of all license fees col- \ 
lected. (Am. Ch. 44, L. ’35). [’36 Supplement ■ 
§ 1553.] 



AIJZUNA GAME LAWS 

Section 25 



41 



FORM AND CONTENTS OF LlCENSjE; 

SHIPPING COUPONS; EXHIBITING 
LICENSE; MINORS 

The form of license shall be determined and 
the license blanks prepared by the commission 
and by it furnished and charged to the person 
authorized to issue licenses. Each license shall 
be accompanied by a shipping permit, author- 
izing the licensee to ship either within or out 
of the state not to exceed one cay's bag limit 
of game or fish, which permit or coupon there- 
of must be attached to the shipment. If a res- 
ident desires, and is entitled to make an addi- 
tional shipment within the state; or a non-res- 
ident desires, and is entitled to make an addi- 
additional shipment either within or out of the 
state, he shall first secure from the commission, 
an adaitional permit authorizing the shipment, 
which permit shall be attached to the shipment. 
The commission shall provide the state game 
and fish warden and his deputies with coupon 
or shipping permit blanks, which shall be issued 
by them, in accordance with the provisions of 
this section, upon payment of a fee of twenty- 
five cents each. The license shall be issued in 



42 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



the name of the commission, sealed with its seal 
and countersigned by the officer issuing the 
same. Each license shall be signed by the li- 
censee in ink on the face thereof and there 
shall be issued with each license authorizing 
the killing or taking of deer or wild turkeys, 
suitable blank forms for attaching to any deer 
or wild turkey when killed or taken, and for 
reporting the same to the state game warden. 
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in , 
his possession a deer or turkey unless tagged , 
with the blank form hereinbefore provided, ^ 
which said blank form must be idetached from ] 
the license and attached to the horns of the 
said deer or the feet of the said turkey immed- ] 
iately upon killing of such game and remain ^ 
thereon during the balance of the year for ' 
which said hunting license shall have been is- ■ 
sued. All persons killing or taking any deer ■ 
or wild turkey shall immediately thereafter * 
make report thereof on such forms to the state | 
game warden and failure to do so shall be un- | 
lawful. Each license shall be void after De- \ 
cember 31st next succeeding its issuance. No | 
person shall take fish, birds, or animals in this \ 
state, unless, at the time of such taking, he 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



43 



sTiall have such license on his person and shall 
exhibit the same upon request for inspection to 
any person. It shall not be unlawful for a res- 
ident of this state under the age of sixteen years 
to fish during open season, and when accom- 
panied by a person holding a valid license, to 
take small game during open season, even 
though such resident child has no license, pro- 
vided that not more than two such resident 
children shall accompany such person holding 
a valid license, but no child, either resident or 
ron-resicent shall take any big game without 
first obtaining a license as herein provided. 
(Am. Ch. 97, L. ’31; Am. Ch. 93; L. ’33; Am. 
Ch. 44, L. ’35.) [’36 Supplement § 1554.] 

Section 26 

REPORT OF LICENSING OFFICER 

On the thirty-first day of December of each 
year, each officer authorized to issue licenses 
shall detach the stubs of licenses issued and 
forward the same, securely attached to a re- 
port of the number issued and tihe amount ot* 
license money received, to the commission and 
at the same time shall return to the commission 
all such stub^ and reports and unused licenses 



44 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



with a final report recapitulating and: tabulat- 
ing the total number of licenses of all kinds 
issued by such officer. The commission shall 
enforce the making of such return, and any 
person failing to comply with the proyisions of 
^his section shall be deemed guilty of a mis- 
demeanor. [^36 Supplement § 1555.] 

Section 27 

GUIDES; LICENSES; FEES; REPORTS 

No person shall directly or indirectly engage < 
or act as a guide, as the term is generally under- j 
stood, for any person hunting game, predatory 
animals, or any o‘''her animals, in this state with- < 
out having satisfied the commission of his re- ^ 
1‘ability and having procured from the com- ; 
mission, upon the payment of ten dollars, a li- ; 
cense authorizing him to act as a guide, which , 
license must be carried on his person while he : 
is so acting as a guide. No guidle license shall ^ 
be granted, except to a citizen of the United 
States and a bona-fide resident of this state, \ 
twenty-one years of age or over. Such license i 
shall expire on the thirty-first day of December j 
succeeding i^s issuance. Each licensed guide 
shall act without pay as a deputy game and 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



45 



fish warden, with the powers and duties of a 
deputy game and fish warden. If a licensed 
guid;e fail or neglect to enforce the provision 
of this act, or violate or connive or assist in 
any violation of this act, his license miay be re- 
voked by the commission and he also shall be lia- 
ble to punishment as for a violation of this act. 
On the last day of each month, or as requested, 
each guide shall, on a blank form furnishea' by 
the commission, report under oath to the com- 
mission the name and address of each person 
guided by him, number of days he has been so 
employed by such person, and as nearly as prac- 
ticable the number of game animals, birds, and 
fish taken by such person and himself, and 
such other information as the commission may 
deem desirable. [’36 Supplement § 1556.] 

Section 28 

UNLAWFUL TAKING DEVICES 
PUBLIC NUISANCE 

Each net, trap, explosive, poisonous or stupe- 
fying substance, or device set, used or intended 
for use in taking animals, birds, or fish in vio- 
lation of this act is hereby declared to be a 
public nuisance, and when found, may be abated 
and summarily destroyed by any person, and 



i(> ARIZONA GAME LAWS 

each officer authorized to enforce this act shall 
seize and summarily destroy any such device, 
or such devices as may be retained, by the com- 
mission, but nothing in this act shall prevent 
thu commission from using proper means for the 
promotion of game and fish propagation and 
culture. The commission or its representatives 
may seize and hold the firearm or other im- 
plement of any violator of this act pending his 
case in court. If the court finds said firearm 
or implement a nuisance, said firearm or im- 
plement may be confiscated and disposed of 
by the commission. [’36 Supplement § 1556 a.] 

Section 29 

WILD DEER; BEAR; BAG LIMIT 

Any one person may take from October six- 
teenth to November fifteenth, only one wild 
male deer having pronghorns. Such wild ani- 
mal or part thereof, shall not be transported 
unless it bear evidence from which the sex of 
the animal may be determined; one grown bear 
may be taken from October Sixteen to Novem- 
ber fifteenth; but no bear cubs shall be taken 
at any time. (Am. Ch. 93, L. ’33). [’36 Supple- 
ment § 1556 b.] 



A Fa ZONA GAME LAWS 47 

Section 30 

WILD ELK, ANTELOPE AND 
MOUNTAIN SHEEP 

There shall be no open season for wild elk, 
antelope and mountain sheep but they may be 
brought into the state for breeding purposes 
under a permit issued by the commission. A 
person may bring into the states the carcass of 
any such animal, or part thereof, legally killed 
by him outside the state. [^36 Supplement § 
1556 c.] 

Section 31 

TREE SQUIRRELS; RABBITS 

There shall be no open season on Kaibab or 
white-tailed squirrels, chiricahua squirrels, nor 
on Arizona tree squirrels in the part of Arizona 
lying south of the Gila and Salt river base and 
meridian. A person may take not to exceed six 
spruce squirrels, Abert Squirrels, or tasseleared 
gray squirrels, (except Kaibab squirrels) in any 
one day between October sixteenth and Novem- 
ber filteenth. The season and bag limit on cot- 
ton tail rabbits shall be set by the commission. 
Any person except minors under the age of six- 
teen years, taking rabbits must possess a pro- 



48 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



per and valid license therefor; provided ho"W- 
ever, that a farmer may take rabbitis on his own 
land without license and at any time and in 
any number if these animals are working dam- 
ages to his crops or trees. (Am. Ch. 97, L. ’'31; 
Am. Ch. 93, L. ’33.) [’36 Supplement § 1556 d.] 

Section 32 

BEAVER; CLOSED SEASON; PERMITS 

There shall be nO' open season for beaver but 
the commission may issue permits to owners or 
lessees of land for the capture of such beaver 
as it determines are interfering with the opera- 
tion of any lawful canal, ditch, or dam, or are 
causing or threatening the destruction of pri- 
vate property, but the person so authorized to 
take beaver shall promptly turn in all skins of 
beaver so taken to the commission, which may 
sell such skins and the proceeds shall be paid 
to the state treasurer to be deposited to the 
credit of the state game and fish protection 
fund. Where deemed advisable, such beaver 
may be removed by the commission to another 
locality. [’36 Supplement § 1556 e.] 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 49 

Section 33 

OPEN SEASON OF OTHER FUR-BEARING 
PREDATORY AND NON-GAME ANIMALS 

Muslcrats, raccoons, opossums, and otters may 
be taken in any number with a gun or a tran 
from November first to March first and such 
animals legally taken, and parts thereof, may 
be possessed, transported, bought and sold at 
any time, in accordance with this act. Preda- 
tory and non game animals may be taken in 
any number and manner and be possessed, 
bought, sold and transported at any time. [’36 
Supplement § 1556 f.] 

Section 34 

GAME BIRDS; OPEN SEASON; LIMIT 

Wild turkey may be taken from October six- 
teenth to November fifteenth, not more than 
two during one season by one person. Gambel 
and scaled quail may be taken from November 
first to December thirty-first. It shall be un- 
lawful for a person to take or have in his pos- 
session in any one day more than fifteen quail 
in the aggregate. Bobwhite, mearns (or fool) 
quail may not be taken at any time. White 
wings may le taken from July fifteenth to 



50 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



August thirty-first and mourning doves may be 
taken from September first to December fifteen- 
th; bag limit, whitewings and mourning doves, 
twenty per day in the aggregate. Migratory 
water fowl may be taken from October sixteenth 
to January thirty-first; bag limit, wild ducks, 
fifteen birds in any one day or in possession, 
brant or geese, two birds in one day or in pos- 
session. Plovers, curlews, coots, and yellowlegs 
and snipe O'ctober sixteenth to November thir- 
tieth; bag limit, fifteen in the aggregate or in 
possession. It shall be unlawful to hunt, kill, 
take, injure, destroy, or have in possession any 
other migratory birds except as herein provided, 
or as prescribed by regulations which the com- 
mission is authorized and directed from time 
to time to make and which do not conflict with 
the laws of the United States relating to mi- 
gratory birds, and the rules and regulations 
issued from time to time thereunder. Any vio- 
lation of such laws or rules and regulations is- 
sued thereunder, shall be deemed a violation 
of this act. (Am. Ch. 97, L. ’31). [’36 Supple- 
ment § 1556 g.] 

Note: Federal laws governing open season 
and bag limits on migratory birds and watery 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



51 



fowl take precedence over state laws. The 
seasons above given on migratory birds and 
waterfowl are subject to change each year un- 
der the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. 

Refer to summary of open seasons and bag 
limits on page. 3. 

Section 35 

CERTAIN NON-GAME BIRDS 
UNPROTECTED 

English sparrows, crows, hawks, great horned 
owls, kingfishers, magpies and jays, chaparral 
cocks and their nests and eggs may be taken in 
any manner and number and may be possessed, 
bought, sold or transported at any time. Any 
bird, except game birds, song birds or insectivor- 
ous birds may be taken when caugh^ in the act 
of destroying domestic live stock, poultry, game, 
other protected birds, their nests or young, or 
fish. ['36 Supplement § 1556 h.] 

Section 36 

FISH; TAKING SEASON; LIMIT 

Trout of all kinds may be taken from June 
first to September “thirtieth; bag limit, twenty 
individual fish, or fifteen pounds of fish and 



52 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



one fish in one day or in possession at one 
time. All other kinds of fish may be taken from 
January first to December thirty-first; bag 
limit, thirty individual fish, or not to exceed 
twenty-five pounds and one fish in one day, or 
in possession at one time, including all kinds 
except trout. No game fish less than seven 
inches long may be taken. The season and 
bag limit on the wild bullfrog shall be set by 
the commission. (Am. Ch. 93, L. ’33). [’36 
Supplement § 1556 i.] 

Note: By Commission Orders certain regula- 
tions on bag limits of fish have been made 
which take precedence over those above given. 
See summary of open seasons and bag limits on 
page — . 

Section 37 

POLLUTING STREAMS PROHIBITED 

i 

No person ^all throw or allow to run into j 
any waters, either private or public, any saw- J 
dust, lime, or any other substance that will in* 
jure or destroy fish or drive them ^rom any ‘ 
such wafers. [’36 Supplement § 1556 y] 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 

Section 38 



FISH SCREENS 

It shall be the duty of the owner or owners 
of any canal or ditch into which any portion 
of waters of any stream containing fish is di- 
verted: for the purpose of irrigation, or any other 
purpose (which consumes such water) to con- 
struct and maintain at the head of such canal 
or ditch a paddle wheel or wheels, screens, or 
other device, as may be directed by the state 
game and fish commission, which device sihall 
be maintained during such portion of each year 
as such waters are so diverted for irrigation or 
other purposes. [^36 Supplement § 1556 k.] 

Section 39 

DISPOSITION OF SEIZED ANIMALS, 
BIRDS, FISH AND FIREARMS 

The edible portions of all game animals, game 
birds and fish seized under the provisions of 
this act shall be disposed of by the commission 
to charitable institutions. Non-game birds and 
the plumes or skins of game birds of foreign 
species shall be disposed of by the game warden 
by gift to scientific institutions, or may be kept 
by the commission for scientific or educational 



U ARIZONA GAME LAWS 

purposes, or may be destroyed. 

A receipt sihall be taken from the donee and 
a record of such gifts *kept by the commission. 
The head, antlers, horns, hide, skin, feet, or 
parts of any game animals, other than the 
edible portions thereof, or firearms, implement 
or other article seized under this act, may after 
judgment, or if the person offending can not 
be ascertained then without judgment, be sold 
by the warden at public auction to the highest 
bidder after notice by publication at least once 
in a newspaper of general circulation in the 
county where such sale is to be held, the date 
of the sale to be not less than five nor more 
than thirty days after the last day of such pub- 
lication. If the property seized is perishable, 
it may be sold before conviction and after such 
notice by posting or publication as the game 
warden may determine. The purchaser may 
possess the same without thereby offending this 
act. The money obtained from the sale of such 
property shall be paid to the state treasurer to 
the credit of the state game and fish protection 
fund; if the property be perishable and sold 
before conviction the money may first be de- 
posited in court and upon conviction, or if the 
person offending cannot be ascertained, paid to 



ARIZONA GAMR LAWS 



state treasurer. The state game and fish 
Vv^arden and each deputy shall make full and 
complete report to the commission of all pro- 
perty by him seized, showing a decription of 
the property, the person from whom it was 
seized, the price received therefor upon public 
sale, and the disposition of ihe money. The 
commission shall keep a record thereof. [^36 
Supplement § 1556 1.] 

Section 40 

PERMIT TO CAPTURE OR DESTROY AN- 
INMALS INJURIOUS TO PROPERTY; FOR 

SCIENTIFIC OR BREEDING PURPOSES 

The commission may issue permits to kill or 
capture alive any species of animals or birds 
which are seriously injurious to agricultutral or 
other interests in any particular community. If 
captured they may be placed in other seo ions 
of the state for restocking purposes, or may be 
disposed of as the commission may determine; 
such permit shall expire and be void thirty days 
after date of issuance. The commission may 
also issue a permit, revocable at pleasuire, to 
any person to collect and possess wild animals 
or wild birds, or birds^ nests or eggs, for 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



5 () 



scientific propagation, or exhibition purposes. 
The applicant for a permit for scientific pur- 
poses must file written testimonials from two 
well known ornithologists or zoologists, and pay 
the sum of one dollar for the permit, but duly 
accredited representatives of public educational 
or scientific institutions, or governmental de- 
partments of the United States engaged in the 
scientific study of birds and animals may be 
granted such a permit without endorsement or 
charge. A scientific permittee shall not be re- 
quired to obtain a hunting license for taking 
birds or animals for scientific purposes. 

A person holding a permit issued pursuant 
to this section may buy, sell, possess, and trans- 
port, for scientific purposes, animals, and birds 
legally taken, and sell them alive for propaga- 
tion to a person holding such a permit. When 
transported, said specimens, or the package in 
which the same are transported, shall have 
clearly and conspicuously marked on the out- 
side the name and address of the consignor and 
consignee, an accurate statement of the con- 
tents, and that such specimens are for scien- 
tific or propagation purposes. Each person re- 
ceiving a permit under this section must file 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 57 

with the commission within fifteen days after 
the expiration of his permit, a report of his 
activities under the permit, which report shall 
set forth the name and address of the permit- 
tee, number of his permit, number of speci- 
mens of each specie taken thereunder, or other- 
wise acquired, disposition of the same, names 
and addresses of persons acquiring the same 
from the permittee, the number of each species 
reared in captivity and the number on hand for 
propagation ifurposes at the expiration of the 
permit. 

The commission may also issue a license to 
game and fish breeders, and the game and fish 
artificially propagated by such licensee may be 
possessed, bought and sold under such regula- 
tions as the commission may prescribe. 

The commission is hereby authorized to pres- 
cribe from time to time rules and regulations 
governing the piossession, sale and transporta- 
tion of animals and birds for propagation pur- 
poses raised in captivity under this act. (Am. 
Ch. 56, L. '39.) ['36 Supplement § 1556 m.] 



58 ARIZONA GAME LAWS 

Section 41 

DUTIES OF SHERIFFS AND OTHER 
PEACE OFICERS; REWARD 

All county, city and town peace oficers are 
hereby made ex-officio special deputy game and 
fish wardens and shall aid in the enforcement 
of this act. Any o«ther person shall receive the 
sum of ten dollars in any action involving a vio- 
lation of this act, in Which he may secure the 
evidence upon which the conviction was obtain- 
ed, to be assessed against the defendant as costs; 
if no conviction is piocured, no fees shall bo 
taxed ag^ainst the state or county. If the costs 
are not paid by a defendant, the ten dollars 
shall be paid out of the state game and fish 
protection fund. [’36 Supplement § 1556 n.] 

Section 42 

COUNTY ATTORNEY; DUTIES 

Each county attorney shall prosecute and de- 
fend, for the state, in all courts of the county, 
all actions, criminal or civil arising under this 
act in which the state' or an officer of the com- 
mission may be a party or may b^ interested* 
[’36 Supplement § 1556 o.] 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



5i) 



Section 43 

IMMUNITY OF WITNESSES 

No p-erson called upon by the state to testify 
as a witness in any action brought under this 
act, shall be excused; or exempted from so testi- 
fying or from producing documentary evidence 
on the ground that such testimony or evidence 
might incriminate him, but such person shall 
not thereafter be prosecuted for any offense 
concerning which he is called upon to give such 
testimony or evidence. [’36 Supplement § 
1556 p.] 

Section 44 

STATE GAME AND FISH FUND 

The commission shall on or before the last 
Tuesday of each month, pay to the state treas- 
urer all money received by it from licenses or 
from any other source under this act, and the 
state treasurer shall deposit such money in a 
special fund to be known as the state game 
and fish protection fund, which is hereby set 
aside, appropriated, and made available to the 
commission in carrying out the provisions of this 
act, and such fund shall be used for no other 



60 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



purpose. Warrants shall be drawn on said fund 
as other state charges are paid. [’36 Supplement 
§ 1556 q.] 

Section 45 

FINES; REPORTS OF STATpE TREASURER 
AND JUSTICES OF THE PEACE 

All fines or penalties collected for violations 
of this act shall be immediately paid by the 
officer collecting or receiving (the same to the 
state treasurer, who shall credit such money to 
the game and fish protection fund. The state 
treasurer shall render a monthly statement to 
the commission on or before the tenth of each 
month, showing all money received and paid by 
him during the preceding month under this act. 
Each justice of the peace and each clerk of 
the court of record, shall within twenty days 
after a judgment has been rendered under this 
act, report in wriiting to the commission the re- 
sults of the prosecution, the amount of fines 
or penalties collected, if any, and the disposi- 
tion thereof. [’36 Supplement § 1556 r.] 
Section 46 

PENALTIES 

Unless a different or other penalty or punish- 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



61 



ment is herein specifically prescribed a person 
who viol'a»*^es any provision of this act, or who 
violates or fails to comply vdth any lawful or- 
der, rule, or regulation adopted by the com- 
mission is guilty of a misdemeanor, and in ad- 
dition thereto, is liable to an additional penalty 
of twen^"^y-five dollars for each animal, bird, or 
fish or part thereof, or each nest or egg of 
any bird bought, sold, offered for sale, taken, 
possessed, or transported, in violation of this 
act. 

Any person who takes, possesses, transports, 
buys, sells, or offers for sale, any deer, elk, an- 
telope, beaver, bear, mountain sheep, or peccary 
or javelina, or any part of any such animal, in 
violation of this act, or any lawful rule or reg- 
ulation of the commission, or who detaches or 
removes from the carcass of any such animal, 
a portion thereof and thereby removes or con- 
ceals evidence of sex, or legality, or who shall 
use any explosive compound or any corrosive or 
narcotic poison or other deleterious substances 
for the purpose of catching, stunning, or killing 
fish, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall 
be punished by a fine of not less than one hun- 
dred dollars nor more ^han three hundred dol- 



62 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Jars, or by imprisonment in the county jail for 
not less than three months nor more than six 
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment; 
and in addition thereto, is liable to an additional 
penalty of fifty dollars for each animal or part 
thereof, or fish, taken, destroyed, possessed, 
transported, boug^ht, sold, or offered for sale- in 
violation of this act. 

Any public officer who fails to perform any 
duty impoised by any of the provisions of this 
act, or any lawful rule or regulation of the 
commission, is guilty of a misdemeanor. 

Any person having knowledge of any viola- 
tions of the provisions of this act, and failing 
to report same to proper authorities; or who 
takes or destroys any animal, bird, or fish, or 
bird^s nest or egg, or eggs or spawn of fish in 
violation of this act on any refuge, sanctuary, 
rest ground or area established by order of the 
commission and contrary to such order; or who 
while hunting, trapping, or fishing, wilfully or 
without cause or reason destroys, injures, or 
molests any livestock, growing crops, or other 
improvements; or who without peirmission of the 
owner or resident, shoots or attempts to shoot 
or otherwise take any game within one eighth 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



G3 



mile of any farm house or other residence or 
cabin, lodge, or building; or who takes any 
game bird, except by permission granted by the 
state game warden, game fish or game animal, 
and wilfully leaves such bird, animal, or fish 
or any edible portion of same, to go to waste, 
or who uses more than once any shipping per- 
mit or coupon issued by the commission, is 
guilty of a misdemeanor. 

In addition to other penalties, prescribed by 
this act, the game warden may revoke a license 
issued to any person under this act and deny 
him the right to secure another license or to 
hunt, fish, or trap anywhere in this state, with 
or without a license, for a period of from one 
to five years, if said licensee or person has 
either been convicted or has signed an acknow- 
ledgement of \iolating any provision of this act, 
or of any lawful rule or regulation of the com- 
mission, or if such licensee or person has been 
convicted in any court of having destroyed or 
carried away notices posted by the commission 
or personal property, or crops of any kind on 
or from the piremises on which he may have 
been hunting, fishing, or trapping, or attemp- 
ing to take any wild animal, birds, or fish, or 



G4 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



has been convicted of bein^ careiitess! in the use 
of firearms while huntings and hereby caused 
an injury to human life or livestock or has been 
convicted of causing forest fires or being in- 
toxicated while using firearms for the purpose 
of hunting. The license of any person con- 
victed of a second or subsequent violation of 
this act shall be revoked by the commission 
herein provided, and such person is hereby 
denied the right to secure a license or to hunt, 
fish, or trap, anywhere in this state with or 
without a license for a period of not less than 
two nor more than ten years from the date of 
such conviction. To deny any person the right 
to secure a license or to hunt, fish, or trap any- 
where in this state for any period, the com- 
mission shall send a written notice to that effect 
by registered mail or by having it delivered in 
to such person at his last known address, either 
person by a representative of the commission. 
The commission shall furnish in writing, to the 
officers or persons authorized to issue licenses 
the name and address of such person and the 
term for which he has been denied the right to 
secure a license, or to hunt, fish, or trap in this 
state, together with any other information the 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



G5 



commission may deem necessary. (Am. Ch. 97, 
L. ^31.) [’36 Supplement § 1556 s.] 

Section 47 

RIEPEAL; TRANSFER OF PRESENT FUNDS 

All laws in conflict or inconsistent with the 
provisions of this act, including Ohapter 30 of 
the Revised Code of 1928, are hereby repealed. 
All money and property now appropriated, set 
aside or available dro the present state game and 
fish warden are appropriated, set aside and 
made available to the Arizona game and fish 
commission by this act created and the state 
treasurer shall transfer all such money to the 
state game and fish protection fund. ['36 Sup- 
plement § 1556 t.] 

CHAPTER 3 

SENATE BILL NO 48 

AN ACT RELATING TO VISITORS’ SPECIAL 
FISHING 

Relating to Visitors’ Special Fishing License, 
And Declaring an Emergency. 

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State 
Of Arizona 



6G 



AKiZOxNA GAME LAWS 



Section 1 

VISITORS' SPECIAL FISHING LICENSE 

In addition to the classes of fis-hing- licenses 
now provided for by law <^here shall be a ^Visit- 
ors' special fishing* license". Such license shall 
be issued only to non-i^sidents of the state ot 
Arizona and shall only entitle the holder there- 
of to fish in and upon water which constitute 
the state boundary line of the s^ate of Ari- 
zona. Such license shall be valid for a period of 
fifteen days only from the date of its issuance. 
The fee for such license shall be one dollar. 

CHAPTER 51 

HOUSE BILL NO. 119 
AN ACT 

Relating to wild life, empowering the Arizona 
Game and Fish Commission to cooperate 
with the Secretary of Agriculture in the es- 
tablishment, maintenance, and completion of 
wildlife-restoration projects, and declaring an 
emergency. 

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the State 
Of Arizona 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 67 

Section 1 
DEFINITIONS. 

In this act, unless the context otherwise re- 
quires : 

^‘Commission’' means the Arizona game and 
fish commission; 

“Secre("ary” means the secretary of agricul- 
ture of the United States; 

“Wildlife-restoration act of congress” means 
chapter 899, first session, seventy-fifth con- 
gress, approved September 2, 1937, commonly 
known as the Pittman-Robertson federal aid in 
wildlife-restoration act, and includes the rules 
and regulations issued by the secretary pursu- 
ant thereto; 

“Wildlife-restoration project” or “project” 
means a project for the selection, restoration, 
rehabilitation, or improvemeni^ of areas of land 
or water adaptable as feeding, resting, or breed- 
ing places for wildlife other than fish, -and in- 
cludes acquisition by purchase, condemnation, 
lease, or gif*^ of such: .property or interests 
therein as may be suitable or. capable of being 
made suhable therefor and the construction of 
such works as may be necessary for such pur 
poses, such research into problems of wildlife 



68 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



management as may be necessary to efficient 
administration of wildlife resources, and such 
preliminary or incidental expenses as may be in- 
curred in and about such project. 

Section 2 

ACCEPTANCE OF ACT 

This state accepts the benefits extended by 
the wildlife-restoration act of congress, and 
agrees to comply with the provisions thereof 
and' the rules and regulations issued by the sec- 
retary of agriculutre of the United States pur- 
suant thereto, in any year in which benefits 
are apportioned and paid to this state there- 
under. The Arizona game and fish commission 
shall be the agency of the state for the purpose 
of this act. 

Section 3 

WILDLIFE-RESTORATION PROJECTS 

The commission shall have power to cooperate ’ 
and enter into agreements with the secretary i 
for the establishment, maintenance, and com- ' 
pletion of wdldlife-restoration projects, pursu- « 
ant to the wildlife-restoration act of congress. ‘ 
In the initiation and carrying on of the work 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS (^9 

of any project, the commission sihall comply 
wif^h the provisions of said act. Every project 
initiated under the provisions of this act shall 
be under the supervision of the commission. 

Section 4 

ACQUISITION OF LANDS 

The commission, in the name of the stable and 
with the approval of the governor, shall have 
power to acquire, by purchase, lease, or g’if^, 
either for cash or upon installments, such lands 
or other property, or interests therein, as may 
be necessary for the purpose of carrying on any 
wildlife-restorai^ion project pursuant to an agree- 
ment entered into between the commission and 
the secretary. 

Section 5 
LICENSE FEES 

All moneys received from hunting licenses 
shall be deposited in the state game and fisV 
protection fund, and no part thereof shall be 
diverted or appropriated for any purpose other 
than the uses of the commission. 



TO 



ARIZONA GAMEi LAWS 



Section 6 

FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 

(a) In the event the commission desires to 
avail itself of moneys apportioned to this state 
for any fiscal year pursuant to the wildlife- 
restoration act of congiress, it shall notify the 
secretary to that effect, not later than sixty 
days after receipt of certification by the secre- 
tary of the estimated amount, to be apportioned 
Lo> this state for such year. 

(b) Upon receipt of final certification by the 
secretary of the amount apportioned to this 
state for any fiscal year pursuant to the wild- 
life-restoration act of congress, the state treas- 
urer shall transfer this state's one-third share 
of the amount so apportioned from any moneys 
appropriated by the sVate for the specific pur- 
pose of carrying out the provisions of this act 
to the wildlife-restoration account in the state 
game and fish protection fund. Moneys re- 
ceived from the federal aid to wildlife-resjtora- 
tion fund of the United States established and 
maintained pursuant to the wildlife-restoration 
act of congress, shall be deposited in said wild- 
life-restoration account. Claims against said 
account shall be made and paid in the manner 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



71 



provided by law for payment of claims against 
the state game and fish protection fund. 

(c) Moneys in the wildlife-restoration ac- 
count of the state game and fish protection fund 
shall be expended solely for work allowable 
under the provisions of the wildlife-restoration 
act of congress, and for which the secrei^ary 
agrees to contribute seventy-five per cent of 
tne cost from the federal a^d to wildlife-restora- 
tion fund. In carrying on the preliminary work 
required to secure the approval of any wildlife- 
lestoration project by the secretary, or in carry- 
ing on the work of any approved project prior 
to the time moneys have been received therefor 
from the federal aid to wildlife-restoration 
fund, the commission shall have power to ex- 
pend moneys in the state game and fish pro- 
tection fund, to the extent necessary to secure 
such approval or to carry on the work of such 
approved project. Thereafter, upon rceeipt of 
moneys from the federal aid to wildlife-restora- 
tion fund for expenditure on such project, the 
commission shall promptly cause the state game 
and f'lsh protection fund to be reimbursed for 
the amounts so expended, from this state’s 
moneys in the wildlife-restoration account, to 
the extent of not more than one-third of the 



72 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



amount received from the United States to be 
expended on such project. 

vu) Any moneys appropriated by the state 
and remaining in tne wildlife-restoration Sic- 
^aant of the state game and fish protecKion 
fnnd at the end of the fiscal year following the 
fiscal year in which said moneys were credited 
thereto by the state treasurer, and which have 
not theretofore been pledged for the use of any 
wildlife-restoration project pursuant to an agree- 
ment entered into between the commission and 
the secretary, shall revert to the general fund. 

Section 7 

APPROPRIATION 

An amount equal to one-third of the amount 
apportioned to this state for the twenty-seventh 
fiscal year, namely six thousand two hundred 
three dollars eighty-nine cents and for the 
twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth fiscal years, not 
to exceed twenty-thousand dollars per year, is 
appropriated to the Arizona game and fish, com- 
mission for the purpose of canning out the pro- 
visions of this act. 

Section 8 
EMERGENCY 

To preserve the public peace, health, and 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 73 

safety it is necessary that this act shall become 
immed’ately operative. It is therefore declare 1 
to be an emergency measure, an shall take ef- 
fect upon its passage in the manner provided 
by law. 

Approved March 10, 1939. 

CHAPTER 58 
ARTICLE 13 
Section 2590 
TAXIDERMY 

LICENSE FROM STATE GAME WARDEN; 

FEE 

It shall be unlawful for any person to engage 
In the business of a taxidermist, to prepare or 
mount the skins or dead bodies of any animals 
of this state for profit, unless such person shall 
first obtain a license from the state game war- 
den, which may be granted to any person in the 
discretion of the warden upon the payment to 
"Ihe said warden of five dollars, which shall ex- 
pire on the thirty-first day of December of /"he 
year in which it is issued. (Par. 1, Ch. 138, 
L. M9, rev.) 



74 



ARIZONA GAME. LAWS 

Section 2591 



REGISTER OF ALL WORK DONE; 
PERMIT TAG; VIOLATION; PENALTY 



A taxidermist mounting or prep<aring speci- 
mens of animals, birds or fish shall attach hi? 
permit number to the specimen, such tag to be 
furnished by the warden, and shall keep a regis- 
ter of the names of all persons who furnish the 
raw or unmounted specimens, and of the species , 
of bird or animal received, and when and 
where kilted. He shall exhibit such register, ‘ 
together with all the unmounted skins in his ^ 
p ossession, to any game warden or offcier ' 
charged with the enforcement of the game laws, ^ 
upon request. A taxidermist violating any pro-i 
visions of this article shall be guilty of a mis- ^ 
demeanor, and his license shall be revoked by' 
the state game warden. (Pars. 2-3-4, id., cons. I 
& rev.) , 



ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
Com. Order No. 10 



< 

. t. 

I 

.i 



Personal use non-game minnow, seining pei-1 
mit is $1.00. Commercial use non-game min-^ 
now seining permit is $5.00. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



75 



Com. Order No. 18 

Game and Fisih Farm Regulations; The State 
Game Warden is authorized to issue permits for 
the establishment of game and fish farms under 
such regulations as the Arizona Game and Fish 
Commission may issue from time to time. 

Any person, persons, firm or corporation de- 
siring to enter the business of rearing and pro- 
pagating game animals, game birds, or game 
fish on property, owned, leased or under their 
1 control in the State of Arizona may make such 
i application to the Arizona Game and Fish Com- 
mission for such permit stating the exact loca- 
'ion and kind of farm desired. Upon approval 
of such application the Arizona Game and Fish 
Commission will issue a permit the charge for 
which shall be Five Dollars ($5.00) per annum. 

Each game animal, bird or fish so reared in 
' captivity must be tagged or marked under the 
supervision of the Arizona Game and Fish Com- 
mission and in such manner as the Commission 
may direct. 

Any game animal, game bird, eggs or game 
fish transported, sold, or offered for sale, shall 
be marked with the brand required by the Com- 
mission and any person operating such farm 
shall make a report within five days to the 



76 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Ccmmission of such transaction. Such report 
shall contain the name of the person making’ 
such transaction, the number and kind of game 
animal, game bird, eggs, or game fish disposed 
of and the name and address of the party to 
whom the sale was made, such report blanks to 
be furnished by the Arizona Game and Fish 
Commission to the breeder. 

Any person or persons found violating a pro- 
vision of the above regulations shall be subject 
to the revocation of his permit to operate such 
farm. 

Com. Order No. A-174 
November 15, 1934 

On motion made and seconded, all permits to 
date which have been issued granting lessees of 
State land the privilege of posting such land 
are hereby ordered revoked. It is further or- 
dered that any permits issued in the future for 
the posting of State leased land be made to in- 
clude only the area within a radius of one-half 
mile from the dwelling house of the applicant 
and to include any water holes on the applicants 
State leased land for a distance of one-half 
mile around such water holes, providing such 
water holes are permanent. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



77 



A ,i^en“eral permit is now and hereby granted 
to all State land lessees ^o post areas around 
the dwelling places and water holes in accord- 
ance with the foregoing and without the nec- 
essity of making formal applications therefor. 



INDEX 



I 





Section Page 


ALIENS — License 


23 


38 


ANGLING — Defined 


1 


12,13 


ANIMALS: 






Definitions 


1 


12 


Disposition of Siezed 


39 


53 


Injurious to Property 


40 


5 5 


Importation of 


17 


34 


Manner of taking- 13,14 


30,31 


Penalties for unlawful taking 46 


60 


Permits to take: 






For Breeding purposes 


40 


55 


For Scientific purposes 


40> 


55 


Sieze , authority to 


10 


26 


Taken without State 


11 


28 


Taking with dogs prohibited 


12 


29 


Transportation 12,116,17 


29,33,34 


Antelope : 






Closed season 


30 


47 


PenaPy for killing 


46 


61 


Bear : 






C'^osed territory (By commission 


Order) 3 


Hunting with dogs legal 


12 


29 


Penalty for unlawful killing 


46 


60 


Season; limit 


29 


46,2 



II 



INDEX 



Section Page 

Beaver : 

Closed season 32 48 

Permit to capture 32 48 

Penalty for unlawful killing 46 60 

Deer: 

Closed territory, Black Tail or Mule 

(By Commission Order) 2 

Penalty for unlawful killing 46 61 

Report of killing 25 42 

Season; limit 29 2,46 

Tagging of 25 42 

Elk: 

Closed season 30 47 

Penalty for killing 46 61 

Fur-bearing Animals: 

Beaver, closed season 32 48 

OCer, closed season (By Comm. Order) 4 
Season ^ 33 49 

Trapping 22 37 

Transportation 16 33 

Javelina or Peccary: 

Closed season (By Commission Order) 4 
Penalty for illegal killing 46 61 

Non-game Animals: 

No closed season 33 



49 



INDEX 



III 





Section 


Page 


Predatory Animals: 


No closed season 


33 


49 


Trapping of 


22 


37 


Rabbits: 


Classification 


1 


13 


Season; Bag limit 


31 


3,47 


Squirrels (Tree) 


Closed season (By Commission Order) 1 


Kaibab, closed season 


31 


4,47 


Penalty for unlawful taking 


46 


61 . 


Season, limit, closed territory 






(See new regulations) 


31 


4,47 ' 


BAG LIMITS 




2, 3, 4, 5 


BASS 


13 


5,6,31 ; 


BEAR: 




j 


Closed territory (By Comm. 


Order) 


3 


Hunting wi'l^h dogs legal 


12 


29 ' 


Penalty for unlawful killing 


46 


60 


Season; limit 


29 


2,46 ' 


BEAVER 




i 


Closed Season 


32 


48 1 


Permit to Capture 


32 


48 < 


Penalty for unlawful killing 


46 


60 ! 


BIRDS: 






Closed seasons 




4 



IV 



INDEX 





Section 


Page 


Definitions 


1 


14 


Disposition of siezed 


39 


53 


Injurious to property 


40 


55 


Importation 


17 


34 


Manner of taking 


13 


SO 


Migratory Birds * 


30 


4,49,50 


Penalties for unlawful taking 46 


61 


Permits to take; 


For Breeding purposes 


40 


55,56 


For Scientific purposes 


40 


55,56 


Possession 


12,19 


29,36 


Seasons 


34 


3,4,51 


Siez)e, authority to 


10 


26 


Taken without State 


11 


28 


Transportation 12,16,17 29,33,34 


Unprotected (Non-game) 


35 


51 


Bob White: 


Closed season 


34 


4,49 


Doves: Mourning and 


Whitewing: 




Classification 


1 


14 


Season, Limit (See footnote) 34 


4,49 


Ducks, other waterfowl: 


Classification 


1 


14 


Seasons (See footnote) 


34 


4,50 


Pheasant, Grouse 



Closed season 



INDEX 




V 




Section Page 


Quail: 


Classification 


1 


14 


Closed territory 




3 


Season, Limit (See new 


regulations) 


34 


3,49 


Song and Insectivorous: 


Protected 


35 


51 


Turkey: 


Classification 


1 


13,14 


Closed territory (By Commission 


Order) 3 


Manner of Taking 


13 


3,30 


Report of killing 


25 


42 


Season; Bag Limit 


34 


3,49 


Tagging of 


25 


42 


BLUE GILL 


12 


5,6,31 


BONDS: 


Commissioners 


2 


16 


Deputy Wardens 


9 


27 


Game Warden 


9 


27 


BULL FROGS 


36 


52 


CARP 




5,6 


CATFISH 


13 


5,6,31 


CLOSED SEASONS 




4 


CLOSED TERRITORIES 


2,3,4,9,10,11,12 


COUNTY ATTORNEYS 


Duties 


42 


53 



VI 



INDEX 



Section 


Page 


CONFISCATION AND SALE 


Firearms 14,39 


31,54 


Game, Disposal of 


39 


53,54 


Unlawful Devices 


28 


45 


Traps 


22 


38 


COMMISSION 


2i 


15 


Office and Place of Hearing 


3 


16 


Orders, publication of 


5 


22 


Powers and Duties 


4 


17 


Salary, Term 


2 


15 


CRAPPIE 




5,6 


DEER 


Closed Territory, Black Tail or Mule 




(By Commission Order) 




2 


Penalty for unlawful killing 


46 


61 


Reipiort of killing 


25 


42 


Season; limit 


29 


2,46 


Tagging of 


25 


42 


DEFINITIONS 


1 


12 


DEPUTY WARDENS 


Appointment of; salary 


7 


25 


Bonds 


9 


27 


Political Activity Prohibited 


8 


26 


Powers and Duties 


10 


27 



INDEX 



Section 



VII 

Page 



DOVES 

Mourning* and White-Winged: 



Classification 


1 


14 


Season, Limit (See footnote) 34 
DUCKS AND OTHER WATERFOWL 


4,49 


Classification 


1 


14 


Seasons (See footnote) 


34 


4,49 


E 






ELK 






Closed season 


30 


47 


Penalty for killing 


46 


61 


F 






FEES 






License 


23,24,27-38 


,40,44 


Taxidermy 




73 


Special Permit 


40 


55 


Game and Fish Farm (By 


Commission 




Order) 




75 


FINES 






Deposit of 


45 


60 


Justiceof Peace Report of 


45 


60 


Treasurer's Report of 
FIREARMS 


45 


60 


Calibre 


14 


32 


Conf’scation of 10,14,39 28,32,54 


Disposition of siezed 


39 


54 



Vlll INDEX 





Section 


Page 


Gauge 


13 


30 


Minors Carrying 


25 


43 


Prohibited on Game Refuges 14 


32 


Public Isuisance 


28 


45 


Silencers prohibited 


14 


32 


FISH 


Angling Defined 


1 


12,13 


Classification 


1 


14 


Closed areas 




5,6 


Disposition of Siezed 


39 


53 


Fish Farm Permits (By Commission 




Order) 


40 


57,75 


Fish Screens 


38 


53 


Manner of taking 


1:3 


31 


Minors Fishing 


25 


43 


Penalties for unlawful taking 46 


61 


Possession 


12 


29 


Seasons, limits, hours 


(See 




Footnote) 


36 


4,51,56 


Sieze, Authority to 


10 


26 


Transportation 


16,17 


33,34 


Bass 


13, 


5,6,31 


Blue Gill 


13 


5,6,31 


Bull Frogs 


36 


52 



INDEX 



Section 



IX 

Page 



FISH 






Catfish 


13 


5,6,31 


Carp 




5,6 


Perch 


13 


5,6,31 


Suckers 




5,6 


Trout 


13,36 


4,5,6,31,51 


Hours 


36 


5,51 


FUR BEARING ANIMALS: 






Beaver, Closed season 


32 


48 


Otter, closed season (By Comm. 


Order) 4 


Season 


33 


49 


Trapping- 


22 


37 


Transportation 


16 


33 


FUNDS: 






State Game and Fish 






Protection 


44 


59 


Wildlife Restoration Account 


70,71,72 


(PRtman-Robertson) 






GAME ANIMALS DEFINED 


1 


12 


GAME BIRDS DEFINED 


1 


13,14 


GAME FISH DEFINED 


1 


14 


GAME REFUGES 




9,10,11,12 


GAME AND FISH FARMS 


40 


55,75 


GUIDES: 


27 


44,45 



X INDEX 



Deputy Game Warden 27 


44,45 


License 27 


44 


Report 27 

Prohibited from carrying guns 


44 


(By Commission Order) 


8 


GUNS 




(See Firearms) 





H 



HUNTING 

Animals 


13,14 


30,31 


Birds 


13 


30 


Definition of 


1 


12 


Minors 


25 


43 


Prohibited 
On Game Refuges 


14 


32 


Near Residences and 
Livestock 


46 


62 


Restricted Districts (By Commission 

Order) 3,4,5,9,10,11,12 


IMPORTATIONS 


17 


34 


IMPORTED PLUMAGE 
Prohibited 


21 


37 


INDIANS 

Prohibited from hunting 
and fishing 


15 


32 



INDEX 



X 

Section Pag< 



J 

JAVELINA OR PECCARY 
Closed season (By Commission Order) 4 



Penalty for illegal killing 
JUSTICE OF PEACE 


46 


61 


Fines to Sta^<e Treasurer 


45 


60 


Report of 


45 


60 


K 






KILLING 
(See Taking) 
KAIBAB SQUIRRELS 






Closed season 


31 


4,47 


L 






LICENSES 






Classes 


23 


38 


Complimentary - Pioneer 


23 


39 


Exhibiting 


25 


43 


Fees 


23 


38 


Form and Contents 


25 


41 


Minois 


25 


43 


Shipping Coupons 


25 


41 


Revocation of 


46 


63 


LIVESTOCK 






Penalty for molesting 


46 


62 



XII INDEX 


Section 


Page 


M 






MANNER OF TAKING 






Small Game animals, birds 






and fish 


13,36 


30,51 


Big* Game 


14 


31 


MARKING PACKAGES 
MIGRATORY BIRDS 


20 


36 


Classification 


1 


14 


Seasons (See footnote) 
MINORS 


34 


4,50 


Hunting" 


25 


43 


Trapping 


22 


37 


MUSKRATS 


33 


3,49 


N 






NON-GAME ANIMALS - 






Defined 


1 


14 


NON-GAMEi BIRDS - Defined 1 


14 


NON-GAME FISH - Defined 


1 


14 


NOTICES - Posting 

O 


5 


22 


OPEN SEASONS 
OFFICERS 




2, 3,4,5 


Duties 


41 


58 


Peace 


41 


58 


Sheriffs 


41 


58 


Reward to 


41 


58 



INDEX 



XIII 



Section Paije 

OPPOSUMS 1,22,23 13,37,49 

ORDERS OF COMMISSION 5 22 

Publication 6 22 

Regulations by 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7* 

OTTERS (Closed se ason by Comm, order) 4 



PEACE OFFICERS 


41 


58 


PECCARY OR JAVELINA 


46 


4,61 


PENALTIES: 


Game and Fish violations 


46 


60 


PERMITS: 


Game and Fish Farm 


40 


55,75 


Scientific Collecting- 


40 


55 


Seining (By Comm. Order) 




71 


Shipping 


25 


41 


Tagging 


25 


41 


Taxidermy 




73 


PITTMAN-ROBERTSON (See 


Wildlife 


Restoration Account) 


PERCH 


13 


5,6,31 


POLLUTING STREAMS 


37 


52 


PREDATORY ANIMALS 22,23 


37,49 


PUBLIC NUISANCE 


28 


45 


POSTING 


Priva“^ely owned property 


5 


22 


State Leased Land 


5 


22,76,77 



XIV 



INDEX 





Sect! 


on Page 


Q 






QUAIL 






Classification 


1 


14 


Closed territory (By Commission Order) 3 


Season, limit (See new 






regulations) 


34 


3,49 


R 






RABBITS 






Classification 


1 


i3 


Season, Bag Limit 


31 


3,47 


RACCOONS 


33 


3,49 


REFUGES 






Abolishment 


4 


19 


Establishment 


4 


19 


Hunting Prohibited on 


14 


32 


Index of 




9,h0,ll,12 


Posting of 


5 


22 


REGULATIONS OF COM- 






MISSION ■ 


5 


22 


REPORTS: 






Deer Killed 


25 


42 


Game and Fish violations 


46 


62 


Game and Fish Farms (By 






Commission Order) 




75,76 


Guide 


27 


44 



INDEX 



XV* 





Section 


Page 


Justice of Peace 


45 


60 


License Dealers 


24 


40 


Scientific Collectors 


40 


57 


State Treasurer 


45 


60 


Trappers 


22 


3'8 


Turkey killed 


25 


42 


STATE GAME WARDEN 


6 


24 


Appointment 


6 


24 


Bond 


9 


27 


Ex^penses 


6 


24 


Qualifications 


6 


24 


Salary 


G 


24 


Powers and Duties 


10 


27 


Term of Office 


6 


24 


SALES AND CONFISCATION 




Imported Plumage 


21 


37 


Property 


39 


53 


Traps 


22 


37 


Specimens 


18 


35 


SHIPPING COUPONS 


Attached to license 


25 


41 


Additional 


25 


41 


SQUIRRELS: 


Closed! season (By Commission Order) 


4 


Kaibab, closed season 


31 


4,47 



XVI 



INDEX 



T 



Section Page 

Penalty for unlawful taking 46 61 

Season, limit, closed territory 31 4,47 

(See new regulations) 



STATE LEASED LAND (BY COM- 
MISSION ORDER) 



Pos' ing 




76,77 


SUCKERS 




5,6 


TAKING: 


Defined 


1 


12 


Animals 


13,14 


30,31 


Birds 


13 


30 


Fish 


13 


31 


Unlawful taking Devices 


28 


45 


Unlawful Taking, Penalties 


46 


60 


TRAPPEES : 


Inspection of Traps 


22 


37 


License required 


22 


37 


Minors 


22 


37 


Tags required 


22 


37 


Reports of 


22 


37 



TRANSPORTA- 
TION 11,12,16,17,17,28,29,33,34,35 
TAXIDERMY 



License, fee 
Register 



73 

7 - 



INDEX 



XVII 





Section 


Page 


Permit Tags 




74 


Violation and Penalty 




74 


TROUT 


36 


5,51 


TURKEY: 


Classification 

Closed Territory (By Comm. 


1 


13,14 


Order) 




3 


Manner of Taking 


13 


3,30 


Report of killing 


25 


42 


Season; Bag limit 


34 


3,49 


Tagging 


25 


42 



UNI.AWFUL TAKING 


DEVICES 


28 


45 


Public Nuisance 


28 


46 


UNLAWFUL TAKING 


Penalties 


46 


60 


UNPROTECTED BIRDS 


35 


51 


WITNESSES 


43 


61 


Immunity of 


43 


61 



' XVIII INDEX 

Section Page 

WILDLIFE RESTORATION ACCOUNT OR 
FEDERAL AID PROJECTS 

Appropriation 72 

Definitions 67 

Enabling Provisions 70 

Financial Provisions 70 

License Fee Diversion 69 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



Hunting and Fishing licenses and other 
Sportsman’s needs may be obtained 
from any of the following Classified 
advertisers: 

COTTONWOOD 

VERDE FURNITURE & HARDWARE COMPANY 
Sporting Goods — Hardware — Farm Implements 

CASA GRANDE 

B. & L. COMPANY, Inc. 

Guns, Ammunition, Tackles, Service Station 

FLAGSTAFF 

SWITZER’S HARDWARE 
Sporting Goods & Camp Supplies 

GLENDALE 

BROOKS & WHITNEY SERVICE STATION 

SINE BROS. CO. HARDWARE 
Remington Animunition, Fishing Tackle 



ADVERTISEMENTS 

GLOBE 

GLOBE HARDWARE COMPANY 
Incorporated 1906 

WHOLESALE & RETAIL HARDWARE 
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
R. B. Hegardt, Pres.; Mrs. E. J. K. Berray, Vice-Pres 
W. T. Lightle, Sec.; W. M. Harbison, Treas. 

A. C. Hegardt, Director. 

MIAMI STORE GLOBE STORE 

51 Keystone Ave. 161 W. Oak St. 

W. T. Lightle, Mgr. W. M. Harbison, Mgr 

HEREFORD 

NICK’S PLACE 

East Slope Huachuca Mountains, Highway 92 

KINGMAN 

KINGMAN - CENTRAL COMMERCIAL CO. 
Northern Arizona’s Largest Department Store 
Everything For Hunting and Fishing 
See, and Fish at Lake Meade 

LAKESIDE 

C. LLOYD RHOTON 
General Merchandise 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



PRESCOTT 

SEALE’S SERVICE STATION . 

Mobilgas Mobiloil Quaker State & Pennzoii 
Remington Ammunition Tyree & Pflueger Tackle 
Hood, Tires & Western Pocket Knives 

SAM HILL’S 

Sporting- Goods - Athletic Supplies 
Fishing Tackle, Firearms, Ammunition 
142 South Montezuma St. Phone IG 

PHOENIX 

BELL’S SPORTING GOODS CO. 

Hunting & Fishing Information 

0. B. MARSTON SUPPLY CO. 

Jobbers of Fishing Tackle - Dealer Accounts 
Solicited 

PARKER 



B. B. BROWN — Parker, Ariz. 
Licenses, Information, Fishing Tackle 



ADVERTISEMENTS 

TONTO BASIN 

FRANK COLCORD 

Guide Service — Lion and Bear hunting in Arizona — 

Big Game Hunting in Old Mexico 

TUCSON 

PORTERS’ 

Everything For the Sportsman — Guns, Ammu- 
nition, Fishing Tackle, Binoculars, Cameras 

WINSLOW 

BABBITT BROS. TRADING CO. 

Winslow, Arizona 
“Sportsmens’ Headquarters” 

YUMA 

I. V. HARDWARE CO. 

Fishing Tackle and Guns 

JHE. litSHAHY Of IHt 

5 - 1941 

UNIVERSITY OF ILLlNOl 




ARIZONA 
ND GAME LAWS 



LAKE MAKY, NEAR FLAGSTAFF, AftiZ. 



Compiled and Published by 
STATE G A M E W A R D E N 
Phoenix, Arizona 



UTEST REVISED EDITION 1919-1920 



To All The People 

Proceeding under the rule that the 
proper functions of public officios is the 
service of the people, the Ganae and M 
Department will maintain the iwlicy , of 
serving as many people as possible mo i f 
come within the scope of the Department’s 
activities. • 

Ad|iering closely to the demand of Gov- ' 
emoi’ Campbell for economy aiid efFiciency 
in official work, this Department will de- 
velop a state- wide organization that: will 
be productive of practical results at com- , 
pa,ratively small cost. •: ' 

All letters and communications sent to 
this office will be. treated as ‘‘strictly con-, . 
fidential” and this office will be thankful 
to any one at any tirhe to f e6eive informa- , 
tion regarding any violation. Names will * 
not be used without permissibn. 

JOfi V, PROCHASKA, 

; State Game Watden, 







ARIZONA 

FISH AND GAME LAWS 

1919-1920 



Compiled and Published 
by 

STATE GAME WARDEN 
Phoenix, Arizona 



PARTIAL TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Page 

Six Rules for Sportsmen 2 

Introduction 3 

To the Sportsmen 5 

State Game Refuges 9 

Licenses 13 

Open Season 15 

Fish Ponds on Farms 44 

Taxidermy Regulated u 47 

Six Rules for Care with Fire 3rd Cover 



The Six Rules For Sportsmen 

1. Prevent Forest Fires. They destroy 
the hunting grounds and the game. 

2. Take the Game Law with you. It 

may be obtained from any Forest Officer 
or License Deputy Game Warden. 

3. Make Sure It’s a Buck. It may be a 
doe, a cow, or a man ; how would you feel ? 

4. Wet the Hand before Removing Un- 
dersized Fish. It prevents breaking the 
mucous covering and the entrance of fatal 
moulds. 

5. Don’t Shoot Harmless Wild Life. 
Only Sharp-shinned Hawks, Great Horned 
Owls, Prairie Dogs, Porcupines, and “Var- 
mints” do more harm than good. 

6. Leave a Clean Camp and a Clean Rec- 
ord. You may want to come back. 



PART I 



Introduction 

This pamphlet contains the Fish and 
Game Laws of Arizona ; the powers, duties 
and funds of the State Game Warden. 

Also 

Information regarding the State Game 
Preserves established by the Legislature 
of the State of Arizona, and other useful 
data. 

Hunters and fishermen should read very 
carefully this pamphlet in order to avoid 
any misunderstanding when interviewed 
by a Deputy Warden. This pocket edition 
may be obtained by applying for same at 
office of State Game Warden, State House, 
Phoenix, Ariz. ; or from any Deputy Game 
Warden. 



The best sportsman is the man who 
finds the most game, kills the least, and 
leaves behind him no wounded. — Joe V. 
Pro. 



To The Sportsmen: 

The shooting of most of the game birds 
and animals of the state is lawful. Before 
you start on your outing trip, we wish you 
to consider the following propositions ; 

The Rancher and Farmer, and the 
Sportsman 

Title to the wild life is vested in the 
state or the Nation (depending on the spe- 
cies) ; but whether or not you will be per- 
mitted to hunt on most of the land in the 
State rests with the landowners. Your 
hunter’s license does not give you the 
right to go on any mans’ land against his 
wish. It is, therefore, squarely up to you 
to decide whether your actions will en- 
courage the Ranchmen and Farmers to re- 
frain from posting, or whether, by reason 
of acts of vandalism and thoughtlessness 
(to say nothing of negligence on your 
part) , the owner of the land in self-protec- 
tion will be compelled to keep you off. 

If your record is good, what will you do 
this year to force guilty persons to under- 
stand that they are threatening the exist- 
ence of your sport? We believe the land- 
owners will meet you more than half way, 



6 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



and will not go to the expense of posting, 
and suffer the loss of time patrolling, un- 
less you drive them to it. 

It is up to the 20,000 hunters in the 
State to act as field agents for the land- 
owners, to assist in prosecuting any viola- 
tions of property rights, and to see to it 
that the country is left in better condition 
than they found it. 

Wild Life — Future of the Sport 

It is elementary that the destruction of 
more wild life each year than comes into 
existence means rapid and complete exter- 
mination. Your slogan should be, put 
back two for every one, taken. To do this, 
kill vermin, feed the birds in the winter, 
observe reasonable bag limits, and assist 
in artificial propagation. If you are in 
doubt as to what to do, write to us. 

Every sportsman should be equally in- 
terested in preserving the insectivorous 
birds. They are of untold value to the 
land. This is one positive way to help the 
man over whose land you hunt each year. 

Game Laws and Deputies 

The game laws were enacted for your 
benefit, and restrict the taking of wild life 
to make possible your slogan of putting 
back two for every one taken out (and this 
applies equally to birds, quadrupeds and 
fish) . Their violation means a greater loss 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



7 



to you than to others because this is your 
sport. 

The deputy is working for your interest. 
His district is unlimited. If he covers a 
square mile today, it may take him over a 
year to get around to it again. He is your 
servant, but will appreciate your help. His 
interests should be your interests. He has 
dedicated his life to assist in establishing 
the improved conditions of sport which 
you desire. A good many hunters think 
that violating the fish and game laws and 
getting away with it is part of the game. 
The more you think this over, we believe 
the less willing you will be to subscribe 
to this doctrine. 



Field Deportment 

Don’t shoot until you clearly see your 
game, and not even then unless you have 
your partner located. Stop if some build- 
ing is in line with your shot. The only 
safe gun is the one apart in your case. 
You can not be too careful with it at any 
time. Give your partner a few of the 
shots. Do not try for “a hundred per 
cent”; the man never lived who could do 
it day in and day out. Give your dog a 
square deal, and if you have neglected him 
for eleven months, do not expect him to be 
a finished hunter and going strong at the 
end of the first day. 



8 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Forest Fires 

Every square mile burned over means a 
great loss to the landowner, who from now 
on you are going to protect. It means less 
shooting ground for you and less breeding 
ground for game. Report a fire to the 
nearest town forest warden. Help fight it. 
Break your match in two before you throw 
it away. 

Think This Over 

When you gather in camp on the “night 
before,” or compare notes at the end of 
the day let the above propositions sink in. 
Our desire is to make the grand old state 
of Arizona more and more attractive to 
live in every year, and among other things 
to increase and perpetuate your sport. We 
shall always be glad to hear from you on 
the problems involved, and we wish you 
good luck and wholesome recreation when 
you go hunting or fishing. 

JOE V. PROCHASKA, 
State Game Warden. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



9 



State Game Refuges 

Mount Graham, Huachuca, Blue Range, 
and Pinal Mountains 

Created by the Third Legislature of Ari- 
zona, 1917. 

Catalina Mountains 

Created by the Fourth Legislature of Ari- 
zona, 1919. 

For the better protection of the wild 
game birds and game animals of Arizona, 
and to provide a safe breeding place and 
refuge therefor, from which the surround- 
ing country may be stocked and replen- 
ished with game, the following described 
areas have been set aside as State Game 
Preserves : 



Mount Graham 

The boundaries of the Mount Graham 
State Game Preserve, as hereby estab- 
lished, shall conform exactly with the 
boundaries of that portion of the Crook 
National Forest, commonly known as the 
Graham mountains. 

Huachuca 

The boundaries of the Huachuca State 



10 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 




Rainbow trout and crappie; known as ‘^The 
Sportsman's Paradise"; deer and turkey are 
plentiful. 



STONEMAN LAKE 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



11 



Game Preserve, as hereby established, 
shall conform exactly with the boundaries 
of that portion of the Coronado National 
Forest lying between Meridians 110 and 
111 of longitude, and south of the Fourth 
Standard Parallel south, commonly known 
as the Huachuca and Patagonia mountains 
lying within said boundaries. 

Blue Range 

The boundaries of the Blue Range Game 
Preserve, as hereby established, shall con- 
form exactly with the boundaries of that 
portion of the Apache National Forest Re- 
serve of Greenlee County. 

Pinal Mountains 

The boundaries of the Pinal Mountains 
State Game Preserve, as hereby estab- 
lished, shall conform exactly with the 
boundaries of that portion of the Crook 
National Forest Reserve, commonly known 
as the Pinal mountains, all of which are 
situated in said Crook National Forest Re- 
serve. 



Catalina Mountains 

The boundaries of the Catalina Moun- 
tains State Game Preserve, as hereby 
established, shall conform exactly with the 
boundaries of that portion of the Coronado 
National Forest Reserve commonly known 
as the Catalina Mountains. 



12 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Grazing Under U. S. Permits 

The acts creating these five game ref- 
uges provide that stock grazing, as permit- 
ted by the United States government, shall 
be allowed on the State Game Preserves. 

Violations and Penalties 

It shall be unlawful for any person or 
persons to hunt, trap, kill, capture, or pur- 
sue any bird or animal whatsoever within 
the limits of any State Game Preserve 
within the State of Arizona ; provided that 
the provisions of this Act shall not apply 
to the killing, capture, or destruction of 
any mountain lion, wolf, fox, coyote, lynx, 
or wildcat, or other obnoxious animal, un- 
der such regulations as the State Game 
Warden may prescribe. Any person or 
persons violating provisions of this section 
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor 
and shall, upon conviction, be fined not less 
than Fifty Dollars, nor more than Two 
Hundred and Fifty Dollars, or shall be im- 
prisoned in the county jail for a period of 
not less than three months, nor more than 
one year, or shall suffer both such fine and 
imprisonment, in the discretion of the 
court. 

The State Game Warden shall have en- 
tire supervision over all State Game Pre- 
serves. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



13 



ARIZONA 

Fish and Game Law 

TITLE XVIII— Penal Code. 



Preservation of Game and Fish 



License, Kinds, by Whom Issued 

651. No person shall at any time shoot, 
or take in any manner, any game which is 
by law protected in this State without first 
having in his possession a hunting license 
as herein provided, for the year such 
shooting is done. Licenses shall be issued 
by the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, 
State Game Warden, or such deputies as 
may be designated for that purpose by the 
State Game Warden. Such licenses shall 
be classified as follows : 

(1) A general hunting license shall en- 
title the person therein named to hunt 
game quadrupeds, birds, and take fish dur- 
ing the open season thereof. 

(2) A big-game license shall entitle the 
person therein named to hunt game quad- 
rupeds during the open season thereof. 
The term “big-game” includes wild tur- 
keys. 

(3) A bird license shall entitle the per- 
son therein named to hunt game birds. 



14 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



other than wild turkeys, during the open 
season thereof. 

License^ — How to Obtain 

652. Any person of the age of twelve 
years or over may, if a non-resident or 
alien, procure hunting licenses as herein 
provided by filing his affidavit, and if a 
resident, by filing a certificate with the 
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, State 
Game Warden, or any deputy warden, au- 
thorized to issue hunting licenses, stating 
therein his name, age, height, weight, 
place of residence, post-office address, and 
color of hair and eyes. No license shall be 
issued except on a blank furnished by the 
State Game Warden, and on payment of 
the sum herein provided for such license. 
All hunting licenses shall be numbered 
consecutively, when printed and shall ex- 
pire with the calendar year in which issued 
and shall state the name, age, height, 
weight, place of residence, post-office ad- 
dress and color of hair and eyes of the 
licensee. 

License— Who Is Entitled To 

653. Any person who has been a bona- 
fide resident of this State for the one year 
then last passed, shall be entitled to pro- 
cure a resident hunting license. 

Any person not a bona fide resident of 
this State, but who is a bona fide resident 



AEIZONA GAME LAWS 



15 



of the United States, shall be entitled to 
procure a non-resident hunting license. 

Possession of Game Without License 

654. The possession of game or fish at 
any time, unaccompanied by a valid license 
or permit, shall be prirna facie evidence 
that such game or fish was unlawfully 
taken and is unlawfully held. And it shall 
be the duty of every person to produce a 
proper license or permit when called upon 
to do so by any game warden and permit 
the same to be examined and copied. 

Open Season (As Amended by Initiative 
Act of November 7, 1916) 

Bag Limits 

654. The open season, inclusive of both 
dates mentioned, for hunting or taking 
game birds, game animals and fish, and 
the bag limit on each, shall be as follows: 

Male deer, October 1 to November 1 ; 
bag limit, one deer with horns, during sea- 
son. 

Wild Turkey, October 1 to November 1 ; 
bag limit, two, during season. 

Ducks, geese, coots, rail and larger 
shore birds, October 15 to January 31 ; bag 
limit, 20 birds of all said varieties in one 
day, or in possession at any one time. 

Doves and whitewings, July 15 to De- 
cember 31 ; bag limit, not exceeding 25 
birds in possession at any one time, or in 
one day, counting both varieties. 



16 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Gambel’s or Valley quail, October 15 to 
December 31 ; bag limit, not to exceed 20 
birds in one day or in possession at any 
one time. 

Trout, of all kinds, June 1 to Septem- 
ber 1 ; bag limit, 25 individual fish, not less 
than seven inches long, in one day or in 
possession at one time. 

All other kinds of fish, January 1 to De- 
cember 31 ; bag limit, not to exceed 25 
pounds in one day, or in possession at one 
time, including all kinds here referred to. 

Any person who shall take any fish un- 
der seven inches in length, of any variety 
of fish protected by this title, is hereby re- 
quired to return such fish, as little injured 
as possible, to the waters from which they 
were taken. Any person failing to abide 
by the provisions of this section shall be 
guilty of a misdemeanor. 

Species Entirely Protected (See Also Sec- 
tion 668) 

655. It shall be unlawful to kill, trap, or 
snare, or in any manner injure or destroy, 
or have in possession, any antelope, elk, 
goat or mountain sheep, female deer, or 
fawn, roadrunner, bob white, grouse or 
pheasant. It shall be unlawful to kill, 
trap, snare, or in any manner inj ure or de- 
stroy, any carrier or homing piegon, the 
property of another. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



17 




MR. GOODFELLOW PLANTING TROUT. 

In Pima Creek, just above Natural Bridge, in Gila 
County; varied accommodations for summer 
outing. 




ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Possession After Season Is Closed 

656. No game or fish shall be held in 
possession more than five days after the 
close of the season for the killing of the 
same. 

Illegal Methods and Devices 

657. No game shall be pursued, wound- 
ed, taken or killed, with a steel or hard- 
pointed bullet, nor shall any person use in 
the pursuit, taking, wounding, or killing of 
any animals, birds, or fish, protected by 
this title, any net, seine, trap, cage, snare, 
salt lick, blind, scaffold, deadfall, pit, snag, 
hook, trout line, artificial light or similar 
device whatever, provided that dogs, 
blinds, sinks, and decoys may be used in 
hunting birds. 

Storage of Game 

658. No game or fish shall be received or 
held in storage except as follows, namely: 

During the open season therefor, and 
for five days thereafter, when the same is 
stored for the person lawfully in posses- 
sion of the same. 

Sale or Export of Game and Fish Pro- 
hibited 

659. Any person who at any time shall 
buy, sell or barter, any bird, fish, or animal 
protected by this act, shall be guilty of a 
misdemeanor. Any person who, during 



AEIZONA GAME LAWS 



19 



the time when its killing- or taking is pro- 
hibited, shall transport or attempt to 
transport any bird, fish or animal protect- 
ed by this act shall be guilty of a misde- 
meanor. Any person who at any time 
shall transport or attempt to transport 
from the State, any bird, fish or animal 
protected by this Act, shall be guilty of a 
misdemeanor. The provisions of this sec- 
tion shall not be so construed as to conflict 
in any v/ay with the provisions of Sec. 666 
of this Act. 

Destruction of Illegal Devices 
660. Every net, trap, explosive, poison- 
ous or stupefying substance or device, 
used, or intended for use, in taking or kill- 
ing game, or fish in violation of this title, 
and set, kept, or found in or upon any of 
the streams or waters of this State, or 
upon the shores thereof, and every trap, 
device, blind or deadfall found baited in 
violation of this title, is hereby declared a 
nuisance and may be abated and sum- 
marily destroyed by any person, and it 
shall be the duty of every officer author- 
ized to enforce this title to seize and sum- 
marily destroy the same and no prosecu- 
tion or suit shall be maintained for such 
destruction ; provided, that nothing in this 
title shall be construed as affecting the 
right of the State Game Warden to use 
such means as may be proper for the pro- 



20 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 




WINTER SCENE ON DIAMOND CREEK. 

Many of these trout streams are formed in the 
White Mountains of Arizona 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



21 



motion of game and fish propagation and 
culture, nor as authorizing the seizure or 
destruction of firearms. 

Posse Expense 

661. The necessary and ordinary fees 
and expenses of every posse lawfully sum- 
moned and engaged in the enforcement of 
this title shall be taxed as part of the 
costs, and if not collected from the person 
liable therefor, shall be paid out of the 
game protection fund. 

Jail Sentence 

662. Whenever, upon conviction, the 
person convicted fails to pay the fine and 
costs imposed upon him, if over eighteen 
years of age, he shall be committed to the 
county jail and shall there be kept confined 
one day for each dollar of the fine and cost 
adjudged against him and he shall not be 
discharged or released therefrom by any 
board of officers, except upon the payment 
of the portion of the fine and costs remain- 
ing unserved or upon the order of the gov- 
ernor of this State. 

Game Warden May Revoke License 

663. If the holder of any license shall 
persistently, or flagrantly, or knowingly, 
violate or countenance the violation of any 
of the provisions of the game laws, such 
license shall be revoked by the Game War- 
den after due notice shall have been given 



22 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



the alleged violator and opportunity af- 
forded him to appear and show cause 
against the revocation of such license. 

State’s Evidence 

664. In any prosecution under this title, 
any participant in violation thereof, when 
so requested by the County Attorney, 
State Game Warden, or other officers, in- 
stituting the prosecution, may testify as 
witness against any other persons charged 
with such violation, and his evidence so 
given shall not be used against him in any 
prosecution for such violation. 

Court’s Report to State Warden 

665. It shall be the duty of every Jus- 
tice of the Peace and Clerk of the Court 
before whom any prosecution under this 
title may be commenced, or shall go on ap- 
peal, and within twenty days after the 
trial or dismissal thereof, to report in 
writing the results thereof, and the 
amount of fines collected, if any, and the 
disposition thereof, to the State Game 
Warden. 

Permits for Scientific and Propagation 
Purposes 

666. The State Game Warden may issue 
permits to any person to take, capture, 
kill, transport within or out of the State, 
or import into the State, any game, birds, 
or fish mentioned in this title, at any time 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



23 



when satisfied that such person desires 
the same exclusively as specimens for sci- 
entific or propagating purposes. Such per- 
mits shall be in writing and shall state the 
kind and number to be taken and the man- 
ner of taking, the name of the person to 
whom issued, and if imported into the 
State, the name of the State or Territory 
from which shipped, and the name of the 
person shipping such game, birds or fish 
and shall be signed by him, and such per- 
mit shall not be transferable nor shall it be 
lawful to sell or barter any of the animals, 
birds, or fish, taken or imported under 
such permit, for food purposes, and the 
holder of such permit shall be liable to the 
penalties provided in this title if he vio- 
lates any of its provisions. 

Redemption of Young Animals 

667. The State Game Warden may au- 
thorize the redemption, by any resident of 
this State, of any young animal which has 
been abandoned by its mother and taken 
in good faith for the purpose of saving its 
life, but not more than four such animals 
shall be redeemed by one person at the 
same time. He may also at any time, and 
in any manner, take any game running at 
large within the State, for the purpose of 
propagating in any other part of the State. 

Civil Suits — Minimum Damages 

This section was amended by the Fourth 



24 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Legislature of the State of Arizona, 1919, 
to read as follows: 

668. (a) The State Game Warden, if he 
so elect, or any other officer charged with 
the enforcement of the laws relating to 
game and fish, if so directed by the State 
Game Warden, may bring civil action in 
the name of the State against any person 
unlawfully wounding or killing, or having 
unlawfully in possession, any game quad- 
ruped, bird, or fish, or part thereof, and re- 
cover judgment for each such animal or 
part thereof, the following minimum 
sums as damages for the taking, killing or 



injuring thereof, to- wit: 

For each elk 


.,,.$200.00 


For each deer 


... 50.00 


For each antelope 


.... 100.00 


For each mountain sheep 


or 


goat - 


.... 200.00 


For each bird 


.... 10.00 


For each fish 


.... 1.00 



No judgment or vedict recovered by the 
State in such action shall be less than the 
sum hereinbefore fixed. Such action and 
damages may be joined with the action for 
possession and recovery had for the pos- 
session and also the damages therefor, 
aforesaid. Neither the pendency nor the 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



26 



determination of such action, nor the pay- 
ment of such judgment, nor the pendency 
nor determination of a criminal prosecu- 
tion for the same taking, wounding, killing 
or possession, shall be a bar to the other, 
nor affect the right of the other. 

(b) Authority to Open Season. — When 
information is furnished the State Game 
Warden that any species of animals or 
birds has become, under extraordinary 
conditions, seriously injurious to agri- 
culture or other interests in any par- 
ticular community in the State of Arizona, 
an investigation will be made to determine 
the nature and extent of the damage, 
whether the birds or animals alleged to be 
doing the damage should be taken or 
killed, and if so, during what times and by 
what means. Upon his determination an 
appropriate order may be made by him al- 
lowing said birds or animals to be taken 
or killed. 

(c) Trapper’s License. — Hereafter it 
shall be unlawful for any person over the 
age of 18 years, in the State of Arizona, 
to hunt or trap on lands for fur-bearing 
and predatory animals of this State, unless 
such person shall have first obtained a 
State Trapper’s License, paying therefor 
the sum of $2.50. 

(d) Fur-bearing and Predatory Ani- 
mals. — For the purpose of this section, the 



26 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



following predatory and fur-bearing ani- 
mals shall be considered: 



Mountain Lions 

Foxes 

Muskrats 

Minks 

Beavers 

Badger 

Coyotes 



Bears Wolves 
Civet Cats Leopards 
Raccoons Opossums 
Skunks Otters 
Martins Weasels 
Fisher Ringtailed 
Moles Woodrats 



Cat 



(e) Traps Protected or Seized. — It shall 
be unlawful to disturb or remove the traps 
of any licensed trapper while trapping on 
the public domain or on lands where he has 
permission to trap. The traps of any per- 
son trapping without a license off his own 
lands, except as provided in this section, 
shall be seized by the State Game Warden 
and may be sold and the money derived 
from such sale shall be deposited to the 
credit of the State Game Protection Fund. 

(f) Possession of Fur-bearing and Pre- 
datory Animals. — It shall be lawful to 
keep fur-bearing and predatory animals at 
any time for the purpose of propagation, 
exhibit or sale; provided, that any person 
desiring to propagate, exhibit or sell said 
animals shall first obtain a permit from 
the State Game Warden. 

(g) Illegal Trap Bait. — No flesh of any 
game bird, fish, or animal shall be used 
for trap bait in trapping any of the ani- 
mals enumerated in this section. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



27 



(h) Protection of Owner’s Premises. — 
Nothing herein shall be construed to pre- 
vent any person from protection of his 
own premises from depredation of any of 
the animals above enumerated. 

(i) Closed Season on Beaver and Wild 
Hog. — Every person who takes, kills or 
destroys, or has in his possession, whether 
taken or killed in the State of Arizona, or 
shipped into the State from any other 
State, any Javelinas or Peccaris (common 
name Wild Hog), or Beaver, for the period 
ending December 31, 1922, shall be guilty 
of a misdemeanor. 

(j) Misdemeanor to Hunt or Fish with- 
out License. — No person shall at any time, 
hunt, shoot, or take in any manner, any 
game or non-game animal, bird or fish 
within the State of Arizona without first 
having in his possession, a hunting and 
fishing license as herein provided for the 
year such hunting or fishing is done. 

(k) Where Licenses Can Be Purchased 
and Illegal Sale of Deer. — Licenses shall 
be issued by the Clerk of the Board of 
Supervisors, State Game Warden, or such 
deputies as may be designated for that 
purpose by the State Game Warden. 

Every person who buys, sells, offers or 
exposes for sale, barter or trade, the hide, 
pelt or skin of any deer, or who transports, 
carries, or has in his possession, the skin, 
pelt, or hide of any female deer, or spotted 



28 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



fawn, any deer hide, or pelt, from which 
the evidence of sex has been removed, is 
guilty of a misdemeanor. 

Nothing in this Act is intended to pre- 
vent any person from having the hide, 
pelt, or skin, tanned or mounted, of any 
deer, taken by himself legally. 

Sec. 2. All Acts and parts of Acts in 
conflict with the provisions of this Act 
are hereby repealed. 

Seal of Office 

669. The State Game Warden shall keep 
a seal of office which shall be used to 
authenticate all papers and documents is- 
sued and executed by him as such officer. 

Record of Mhney; License Fee (as Amend- 
ed by Initiative Act, Nov. 7, 1916) 

670. The State Game Warden shall keep 
a record of all moneys received and all 
licenses, certificates, permits and tags is- 
sued by him, numbering each class sepa- 
rately, and upon satisfactory proof that 
any license, certificate, or permit has been 
lost before the expiration thereof, he may 
issue a duplicate therefor, for which the 
applicant shall pay the sum of ten cents. 

The State Game Warden and license col- 
lectors shall charge and collect the follow- 
ing license fees: 

A fee of $1.25 shall be collected from a 
resident for a license to fish by means of 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



29 




PARADISE CREEK. 

Typical trout stream in the White Mountains in 
Gila County; elevation, 9,500 ft.; Orel Peak, 
10,266 ft.; 14 and 15 inch trout abundant; can 
be reached via auto. 



30 



AEIZONA GAME LAWS 



hook and line in the public waters of the 
State, and to hunt and take any kind of 
game during the open season therefor, on 
the public domain, 

A fee of $20 shall be collected from 
aliens and non-residents for license to fish 
in the public waters of the State, by means 
of hook and line and to hunt and take any 
kind of game during the open season 
therefor, on the public domain. 

A fee of $10 shall be collected from 
aliens and non-residents for a license to 
fish by means of a hook and line, in the 
public waters of the State, and to hunt and 
take any kind of game during the open 
season therefor (excepting deer and tur- 
key), on the public domain. 

Shot Guns 

671. It shall be unlawful for any person 
in the State of Arizona to use a gun of 
larger calibre than that commonly known 
and designated as number ten gauge, for 
the purpose of destroying any wild tur- 
key, dove, quail, wild duck, wild goose, 
snipe or rail. 

Illegal Possession of Eggs 

672. It shall be unlawful for any person 
in the State of Arizona to take, gather, or 
destroy, or have in possession at any time, 
the eggs of any quail, bob white, partridge, 
grouse, pheasant, dove, wild turkey, wild 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



1 



duck, wild goose, brant, snipe, rail, or any 
song bird of any kind. 

Shooting on Public Highway 

673. It shall be unlawful for any person 
to shoot a revolver, rifle, or shot gun of 
any calibre or gauge, upon, from or across 
any public highway of the State of Ari- 
zona, where there is cultivated land or 
dwelling houses either side thereof, or 
where shot from such gun shall fall in, 
or pass over any cultivated land or dwell- 
ing houses, or among stock, or other ani- 
mals grazing on land contiguous to such 
public highway. 

Song Birds 

674. It shall be unlawful for any person 
in the State of Arizona, at any time to 
hunt, pursue, kill or destroy any lark, 
thrush, sparrow, swallow, grosbeak, ortan- 
ager, or any other song bird of any kind, 
provided, that nothing in this title be so 
construed as to interfere with the collec- 
tion of birds for scientiflc purposes by the 
Curator of the State Museum, or by any 
other person authorized by the State 
Game Warden of this State to collect. 

Hunting by Indians 

675. It shall be unlawful for any Indian 
in the State of Arizona, at any time, to 
hunt, take, pursue, kill, or destroy, any 
game or flsh mentioned in this title, off the 



82 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 




SALT RIVER AT MORMON FLATS. 

Crappie, perch, Verde trout and catfish are plenti- 
ful here; beautiful camp sites; Maricopa 
County. 



AEIZONA GAME LAWS 



33 



Government Reservation to which he be- 
longs. 

Hunting by Minors 

676. All American-born persons, resi- 
dents of this State, under the age of seven- 
teen years may have the same privileges 
as one holding a general license, without 
cost, provided they are accompanied by a 
person holding a general license. 

Printing, License Collection, and Their 
Reports 

677. It shall be the duty of the State 
Game Warden, and he shall have the au- 
thority to procure the printing of all forms 
and blanks that may be required to carry 
out the intent of this title and not incon- 
sistent herewith, and all necessary blanks 
shall be furnished by him to the several 
license collectors. No license shall be is- 
sued except on an application sworn to by 
the applicant, and any false statement in 
any application shall render the license is- 
sued thereon void. Every license collector 
shall keep a correct and complete record of 
every license issued by him, which record 
shall remain in his office and be open to in- 
spection of the public at all times. All 
moneys collected for licenses shall be sent 
to the State Treasurer on or before the 
tenth day of the month following, and 
license collectors shall report to the State 



34 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Game Warden the number of licenses is- 
sued, and the amount of money remitted. 

State Protection Fund 

678. All moneys sent to the State Treas- 
urer in payment of hunting licenses, per- 
mits, certificates, fines, penalties, or for- 
feitures, shall be set aside by him, and 
shall constitute a fund to be known as the 
Game Protection Fund, for the payment of 
the printing, publishing of reports, post- 
age, express, and other necessary and of- 
fice expenses, and the per diem salaries 
and necessary expenses of deputies; for 
the purchase, transportation, distribution 
and propagation of game and fish. 

The State Game Warden shall not issue 
any voucher, nor shall the State Auditor 
approve any such voucher issued by the 
State Game Warden under the provisions 
of this title, or otherwise, for any services 
or expenses of any kind, unless the money 
to pay such voucher shall at the time be on 
hand to pay the same. 

Disposition of Fines 

679. All moneys collected for fines un- 
der this title shall be immediately paid 
over by the Justice of the Peace or Clerk 
collecting or receiving the same, as fol- 
lows: 

One-half to the State Treasurer, to be 
by him credited to the Game Protection 
Fund. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



35 



And one-half to the person or deputy in- 
stituting the prosecution, except in cases 
where such prosecution is instituted by 
salaried officers, in which case such fines 
shall all be paid over to the State Treas- 
urer, to be by him credited to the Game 
Protection Fund. The State Treasurer 
shall render monthly statements to the 
State Game Warden, showing all moneys 
received and paid out under the provisions 
of this title. 

Birds Not Protected 

680. The English or European sparrow, 
great horned owl, and all species of hawks, 
are not included among the birds protected 
by this title. 

Time Limit on Prosecution 

681. Prosecution under this title may be 
commenced within one month from the 
date of violation of any of the provisions 
of this title, either by complaint or infor- 
mation. 



Bird Pets 

682. Nothing in this title shall prevent 
a citizen of the State of Arizona from tak- 
or keeping any wild bird in any cage, as a 
domestic pet, provided that such bird shall 
not be sold or exchanged or offered for sale 
or exchange, or transported out of this 
State. 



86 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Fishing with Hook and Line Only 

683. It shall be unlawful for any person 
or persons to catch, kill, or have in his or 
their possession, any species of trout or 
game food fish found in any of the public 
streams or waters of this State, unless 
said fish has been taken with a hook and 
line attached to a rod or held in the hand, 
and any person or persons, catching, kill- 
ing, or having in their possession, any 
such fish, taken in any other manner, shall 
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and 
upon conviction thereof shall be punished 
by a fine of not less than twenty-five dol- 
lars nor more than fifty dollars, or by im- 
prisonment for not less than ten days, nor 
more than thirty days, or by both such fine 
and imprisonment, in the discretion of the 
court, and every fish caught or killed in 
violation hereof, shall constitute a sepa- 
rate and distinct oifense. 

Penalties for Violations 

684. Any person violating any of the 
provisions of this title shall be punished 
by a fine of not less than ten dollars nor 
more than one hundred dollars, or by im- 
prisonment for not less than ten days nor 
more than ninety days, or by both such 
fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of 
the court. 

State. Game Warden — Appointment 

685. Within thirty days after the be- 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



37 



coming effective of this title there shall be 
appointed by the Governor of the State of 
Arizona an officer to be known as the State 
Game Warden of the State of Arizona, 
whose term of office shall be two years, 
and until his successor shall be appointed, 
and shall have qualified. His duties shall 
be as prescribed by this title. 

Compensation of Game Warden and Office 
Deputy 

686. Such State Game Warden before 
entering upon the discharge of his duties, 
shall qualify by taking the oath required 
by law to be taken by officers of the State 
of Arizona, and by filing with the Sec- 
retary of State after approval by the Gov- 
ernor, a good and sufficient bond with two 
or more sureties or a duly qualified surety 
company in the sum of two thousand dol- 
lars conditioned for the faithful perform- 
ance and discharge of his duties, and shall 
receive as full compensation for his serv- 
ices the sum of eighteen hundred dollars 
per annum, and his necessary traveling ex- 
penses, not to exceed the sum of one thou- 
sand dollars per annum; and shall be al- 
lowed one office deputy, v/ho shall receive a 
salary of twelve hundred dollars per an- 
num. Such salaries and expenses to be 
paid out of the general fund of the State in 
the same manner as the salaries of other 
State officers are paid. 



38 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 




Black bass, yellow perch, crappie, Colorado River 
salmon; federal bird preserve; unlimited fish- 
ing and camping accommodations. 



ROOSEVELT LAKE. 




AEIZONA GAME LAWS 



39 



Deputy Warden — Duties and Powers; Per 
Diem Expenses while on Duty 

687. Each Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Con- 
stable, and Live-Stock Sanitary Inspector 
is hereby appointed and designated a State 
Deputy Game Warden. 

The State Game Warden may appoint 
such Deputy County Game Wardens as to 
him may seem proper (and may remove 
them from office), who shall be residents 
of the county from which they are ap- 
pointed, and who shall be especially 
charged with the duty of enforcing the 
fish and game laws in their respective 
counties, and may be designated as license 
collectors, each deputy so appointed shall 
qualify by filing with the State Game War- 
den an oath of office in the form prescribed 
by law for a State officer. It shall be the 
duty of the State Game Warden and of 
each State and County Deputy Game War- 
den to rigidly and strictly enforce the pro- 
visions of this law and all other laws of 
the State of Arizona for the protection of 
fish and game of whatsoever kind or de- 
scription, and to institute or cause to be 
instituted prosecutions for any and all vio- 
lations of such laws, and to this end such 
State Game Warden and each of his depu- 
ties are hereby authorized and required to 
arrest, or cause to be arrested all violators 
of such laws and to lodge accusations 
against them in a court of competent juris- 



40 



AKIZONA GAME LAWS 



diction in the premises ; to gather evidence 
on behalf of the prosecution of such of- 
fenders and to do all things necessary to 
the punishment hereunder and under the 
laws of this State on the subject of fish 
and game and the protection thereof. For 
failure to arrest and prosecute any person 
violating the provisions of this or other 
laws of the State of Arizona for the pro- 
tection of fish and game such State Game 
Warden or such deputy shall be liable to a 
fine of not less than one hundred dollars 
and not more than two hundred and fifty 
dollars, or by imprisonment for not less 
than thirty days and not more than ninety 
days, or by both such fine and imprison- 
ment; provided, that such violation come 
within the knowledge of such State Game 
Warden or Deputy. The conviction there- 
of shall also operate as a removal of such 
person from office. The State Game War- 
den shall have power to pay such deputies 
as he shall designate for specific duties a 
per diem of three dollars and actual neces- 
sary expenses while under the direct order 
of the State Game Warden in the perform- 
ance of duties in enforcing the fish and 
game laws ; provided, that the State Gam.e 
Warden shall not desi^ate deputies for 
services requiring per diem or expenses for 
specific duties except when there are suffi- 
cient funds in the Game Protection Fund 
to pay for such services. The salaries, per 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



41 



diem, and expenses of the deputies shall be 
paid semi-monthly upon verified vouchers 
under oath, approved by the State Game 
Warden, out of the Game Protection Fund. 

License — ^When Not Required 
688. No license shall be required by any 
person who, during the open season on his 
own lands, hunts, pursues, or kills any of 
the wild birds or animals protected by the 
laws of this State, nor shall this title apply 
to the taking of fish from private artificial 
ponds or reservoirs with the permission of 
the owner. 

Excerpts from the Federal Regulations for 
the Protection of Migratory Birds 
All wild geese, wild swans, wild ducks, 
snipes, plover, woodcock, rail, wild pigeons, 
and all other migratory game and insectiv- 
orous birds which in their northern and 
southern migrations pass through or do 
not remain permanently the entire year 
within the borders of any State or Terri- 
tory, shall hereafter be deemed to be with- 
in the custody and protection of the Gov- 
ernment of the United States, and shall 
not be destroyed or taken contrary to reg- 
ulations hereinafter provided therefor. 

Regulation I — Definition 

For the purpose of these regulations the 
following shall be considered migratory 
game birds: 



42 



AEIZONA GAME LAWS 



(a) Anatidae or waterfowl, including 
brant, wild ducks, geese, and swans. 

(b) Gruidae or cranes, including little 
brown, sandhill, and whooping cranes. 

(c) Rallidae or rails, including coots, 
gallinules, and sora, and other rails. 

(d) Limicolae or shore birds, including 
avocets, curlew, dowitchers, godwits, 
knots, oyster catchers, phalaropes, plover, 
sandpipers, snipe, stilts, surf birds, tum- 
stones, willets, woodcock, and yellow legs. 

(e) Columbidae or pigeons, including 
doves and wild pigeons. 

For the purposes of these regulations 
the following shall be considered migra- 
tory insectivorous birds: 

(f) Bobolinks, catbirds, chickadees, 
cuckoos, flickers, flycatchers, grosbeaks, 
humming birds, kinglets, martins, mead- 
owlarks, nighthawks or bull bats, nu- 
thatches, orioles, robins, titmice, thrushes, 
vircos, warblers, waxwings, whippoorwills, 
woodpeckers and wrens, and all other 
perching birds which feed entirely or 
chiefly on insects. 

Regulation II — Closed Season at Night 

A daily closed season on all migratory 
game and insectivorous birds shall extend 
from sunset to sunrise. 

Federal Seasons 

Open season for ducks, geese, coots, rail 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



43 



and larger shore birds is between same 
dates as the state law provides, as amend- 
ed by Initiative Act, November 7, 1916: 
Closed season until September 1, 1918, 
on band-tailed pigeons (Arizona wild pig- 
eon), swans, cranes, curlew and all the 
smaller shore birds. 



44 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



Fish Ponds On Farms 

The propagation of fish on farms in arti- 
ficially constructed ponds or in natural 
ponds of limited area is perfectly feasible ; 
and with proper management such ponds 
will afford a convenient and economical 
food supply that will justify the expense 
of their construction or preparation and 
maintenance. 

Value of Fish as Food 

As a substitute for meat, fish offer 
many advantages. Pound for pound, it 
contains as much protein as meat, and in 
some cases more. It therefore affords the 
same class and grade of material as beef, 
mutton, and pork. Unfortunately, those 
actively engaged in farm work rarely have 
the opportunity to fish in neighboring 
lakes and streams, and more distant ex- 
cursions, involving several days’ absence 
from home, are usually beyond considera- 
tion. The need is apparent, therefore, for 
a readily accessible supply of fresh fish 
that may be drawn upon when desired. A 
source as dependable as the smokehouse or 
the poultry yard. 

Pond Construction 

The exact mode of construction must 
depend largely upon local conditions, such 
as the presence or absence of favorable 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



45 



land contour, the nature of the soil, prox- 
imity to storm channels, and the area of 
the ground to be worked. Even with these 
features specified lesser local characteris- 
tics and the exigencies of individual cir- 
cumstances will vary the application of 
any approved general method. Where 
practicable, ponds should not be less than 
one acre in surface area. Those of smaller 
extent will produce fish and add an inter- 
esting feature to farm life; but they will 
not yield adult food fishes of the larger 
species in quantities sufficient for the re- 
quirements of the average farmer’s table. 

Aquatic Plants 

Frequent reference has been made to 
the necessity of vegetation in fish ponds. 
Its advantages are many. It serves as 
food and a harbor for the lowest forms of 
minute animal life. Each advance in the 
scale of life constitutes a food for higher 
forms, and in the guise of fish fertility of 
the ground contributes the food of the 
human race. 

Species of Fish Suitable for Pond Culture 

Small mouth Black Bass, large mouth 
Black Bass, Crappie, Calico Bass, Rock 
Bass, Warmouth Bass, Sunfish, Catfish. 

Care of Fish 

As with all forms of live stock, it is es- 
sential that brood fish be kept in a thrifty 
condition. Good food, proper shelter, ven- 



46 



AEIZONA GAME LAWS 



tilation, and exercise — familiar require- 
ments to the farmer — have their equiva- 
lents in the food, physical characteristics 
of the pond, composition and aeration of 
the water, and the amount of space allot- 
ted to a given number of fish. Common 
sense, based upon the observations of 
natural laws, will carry the fish-culturist a 
long way toward success. 

How to Obtain Fish 

The Bureau of Fisheries will undertake 
to furnish fish to individuals for stocking 
public and private waters. Blanks upon 
which to submit formal applications will 
be supplied on request, either by the State 
Game Warden, or by the Bureau at Wash- 
ington, D. C. Assignments of fish are 
made large enough to form the nucleus for 
a brood stock for a given area of water, 
and are delivered at the applicant’s rail- 
road station free of charge. From the in- 
formation given in these applications the 
Bureau decides as to the suitability of the 
waters for the fish asked for and reserves 
the right to substitute other species if in 
the judgment the applicant’s selection is ill 
chosen, or it is impossible, with its limited 
facilities, to supply the species specified 
within a reasonable length of time. 

For further information address the 
State Game Warden. 



ARIZONA GAME LAWS 



47 



Taxidermy Regulated 



Enacted by the Fourth Legislature of the 
State of Arizona, 1919. 



Section 1. Hereafter it shall be unlawful 
within the State of Arizona for any per- 
son, who shall engage in conducting a taxi- 
dermist business, as the term is commonly 
understood, to prepare or mount any skins 
or dead bodies of any game or non-game 
birds or animals, or any part thereof, of 
this State for profit, unless such person 
shall first obtain a license from the State 
Game Warden, which may be granted to 
any person on the discretion of the State 
Game Warden; provided, that such person 
must pay to the said State Game Warden 
the sum of Five Dollars for said license, 
which shall expire on the thirty-first of 
December of the year in which it is issued. 

Sec. 2. Any taxidermist who shall 
mount or prepare specimens of game or 
non-game animals, birds or fish, or any 
part thereof, must keep a register in 
which a list of names of all persons who 
furnish them with raw or unmounted spe- 
cimens shall be kept, together with the 
species of bird or animal received, and 



48 



AEIZONA GAME LAWS 



when and where such bird or animal was 
killed, and such taxidermist shall be re- 
quired to exhibit such register, together 
with all the unmounted skins in his pos- 
session, to any Game Warden or officer 
charged with the enforcement of the 
game laws, upon request. Any person 
failing to do so shall be guilty of a mis- 
demeanor. 

Sec. 3. On proof that any holder of any 
taxidermist license has violated any of the 
provisions of this Act, his license shall be 
forfeited and he shall be guilty of a misde- 
meanor. All money derived from the sale 
of such taxidermist license shall be for- 
warded to the State Treasurer who shall 
deposit same to the Game Protection 
Fund and shall be used for the protection 
and propagation of game animals, birds 
and fish. 

Sec. 4. Any licensed taxidermist may 
prepare, or mount, and transport in any 
manner, and at any time, birds, animals, 
and fish, or parts thereof, when legally 
taken ; provided, however, that his permit 
number is attached to the specimen, such 
permit tag to be furnished by the State 
Game Warden. 



|n The Mountains 

(Prescribed by the U. S. Forest Service.) 

If every member of the pubiic strictly ob- 
served these simple rules, the great an- 
nual loss by forest fires would be rieduced 
fo a minimum. 

1. Be sure your match is but before you 
throw it away. 

2. Knock out your pipe* ashes or throw 
your cigar or cigarette stump where there 
is nothing to catch fire. 

• 3. Don’t build a Camp fire any larger 
than is absolutely necessary. Never leave 
it even for a short timb, without putting it 
OUT with water or earth. 

4. Don’t build S, camp fire against a tree 
or log. Build a small one where you can 
scrape away the needles, leaves or grass 
from all sides of it. , 

^ 5. Don’t build bonfires. The wind mhy 
come up at any time and start a fire you 
can not control. 

6. If you discover a fire, put it but if 
possible ; if you can not, get Word of it to 
the nearest U. S. Forest Ranger Or State: 
Fire Warden just as quickly as you possir 
bly can. 




3 0112 115403864 



LAKE MARY 

Eight wles south 6f summer pottages 

and unliiuited camp sites; black bass, crappie, 
perch and catfish, 

CbcdN7NQ 8u^^, Fi^GsT^ 



