TX 
C55 

AGRICULTURE 

REFERENa 

SERVICE 




feg>oo oo^^oo °°-C3g^^^__^g P ^^^__°^^^__^g g 



Cornerstone Club 



COOK BOOK 












I 



COMPILED BY THE MEMBERS OF 

THE CORNERSTONE CLUB 

NINETEEN THIRTEEN 



Q 



I 



M 



i 



°€ ^^ 00'{30 <>1 pOCI^OO 0<>f30C-- ("^jj 003^00 oo^oog cpog^^ oo-(Sooo opog^oo oo^i^-jjt 



SEEVXCS 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2006 witii funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/cornerstoneclubcOOcornricli 



SEHVICI 



SALAD /a6- 



cup ta 



Palace Salad. — Two cups canned pineapple, one cup tart >{igR 
apples, one cup celery, three pimientos. Toss together lightly refeh 
Let stand half hour. Add half cup mayonnaise dressing and SS?- 
one-half cup cream whipped stifif. 

MRS. PARCE. 

Salad Dressing (One Quart). — Eight tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, two tablespoonfuls flour, eight tablespoonfuls sugar, 
one teaspoonful salt, two cups milk. Cook in double boiler 
until thick, then add one cup weak vinegar, two teaspoonfuls 
mustard and cook again. 

MRS. W. J. TAYLOR. 

Peach and Pineapple Salad. — One can peaches, one can 
pineapple, half pint whipping cream and lettuce. 

Dressing for Salad. — Two eggs beaten together, four table- 
spoonfuls vinegar. Put eggs and vinegar in double boiler and 
cook until thick. When cold put in a pinch of mustard dis- 
solved in a little milk. : When ready for use, whip cream stifif 
and put in dressing. Then put in the diced pineapple. On 
lettuce leaf, put half a peach and fill with the dressing. Serve 
with Baronet biscuit. 

MRS. W. F. MARTIN. 

Salad. — Three medium sized cucumbers soaked in slightly 
salted water, one good sized apple, three sour pickles, two 
pimientos. Dice apples and cucumbers into a medium dice, 
and the pickles and pimientos into small dice. Mix with 
mayonnaise and put on lettuce. 

MRS. WARD ESTERLY. 



MEAT 

Salmon Loaf. — One can salmon (or one pint boiled salmon), 
break with fork, add one cup cracker crumbs, two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, two beaten eggs, salt, and red pepper. 
Boil in buttered mould one hour. Turn out and slice when 
cold. Garnish with hard boiled o.^^ and serve with lemon. 

MRS. FRANK BROWN. 

Meat Loaf. — Thirty cents round steak (ground), one egg 
unbeaten, one-third cup cream of wheat, one and half cups 
hot water, one tablespoonful salt, chopped onion, sage, pepper 
to taste, one large tablespoonful butter. Bake in loaf tin in slow 
oven forty-five minutes. 

MRS. F. W. LEWIS. 



M885653 



Mutton Chops Escalloped Potatoes en casserole. — Fill a 

buttered baking dish three-fourths full with alternate layer 
thinly sliced potatoes and cracker crumbs. Add to each 
layer a sprinkling of salt and cover the whole with milk. 
Spread the mutton chops over the top. Bake in a moderate 
oven one hour covered and one hour uncovered. The meat 
gravy will permeate the entire dish. Serve from baking dish. 
Left over chops may be used in the same way, substituting 
the meat gravy for part of the milk used. 

MRS. C. M. HARING. 

Cheese Ramekin. — ^Two tablespoonfuls butter, three table- 
spoonfuls flour, one pint milk, salt and pepper, three eggs 
separated, three cups grated cheese, pinch of soda. Make a 
white sauce of the butter, flour and milk and let cool. Beat 
the yolks of eggs, and add to the above; then add cheese 
and soda. Stir all together. Beat the whites of eggs stiff and 
fold in carefully. Bake in a moderate oven twenty to twenty- 
five minutes. This will serve eight people. 

MRS. GEORGE E. BURLINGAME. 

Tenderloin Sole. — Soak tenderloin in lemon juice one half 
hour. Dip in one beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs, fry 
brown in hot fat. 

MRS. C. W. FENDER. 

Shrimps a la Ramikins. — Half pound shrimps (weighed after 
picked), one-third package corn flakes, one egg, half cup milk, 
a little tomato catsup, Worcestershire sauce and kitchen 
bouquet. A pinch salt and two tablespoonfuls melted butter. 
Stir all together and bake in ramikins with sliced lemon on 
top for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

MRS. C. L. ROADHOUSE. 

Round Steak with Carrots and Onions. — Take a piece of 
upper round, steak at least an inch thick. Rub with salt and 
Worcestershire, a half cup flour (Cut into it by gashing both 
sides). Then brown on both sides with hot fat or oil. Have 
small whole onion and French carrots partly cooked in 
salted water. Place these about the steak in the skillet or 
large casserole. Add sufficient water or stock to cover. 
Cover the utensil tightly and cook in a very slow oven 
about an hour, turning the vegetables once to brown gn 
both sides. When ready to serve there will be a rich brown 
gravy all ready made. Dumplings added fifteen minutes 
before serv^ing make an agreeable change. 

MRS. W. R. PATTON. 
2 




Tetley's Tea Parties 

are getting very 
large just now, but 
we have room for all. 



^'Virtue has Its 
Own Reward" 



The Virtue in 

TETLEY'S TEA 

rewards those who 

drink it. 




PACIFIC COAST OFFICE 

JOSEPH TETLEY & CO., Inc. 

RANDOLPH MARTIN, Manager 
112 Market Street San Francisco, Cal 



Tamale En Casserole. — Line a casserole or pan with plain 
white corn meal mush. Take about pint cooked tamatoes and 
mix with them half teaspoonful of good tamale pepper and 
salt to taste, also a suggestion of garlic. Mix this with some 
of the mush that has been reserved and put into the casserole. 
Stuflf full of ripe olives and pieces of chicken or meat. Cover 
with the remainder of plain mush, put on the lid and steam 
for three hours. 

MRS. A. H. BRANDT. 

Souffle (Meat). — One pint chopped cooked meat (Lamb 
is nicest), one tablespoonful parsley chopped, two very small 
onions, half cup bread crumbs, two eggs (whites and yolks 
beaten separately). Make a white sauce of one teaspoonful 
flour, one pint sweet milk cooked until smooth. Pour the 
cream sauce over mixture, leaving the white until the last. 
Set in a pan of hot water and bake about thirty minutes in 
a medium hot oven. 

MRS. PHILLIP CHUBB. 

Spanish Beans. — Two cups small pink beans, ten cents salt 
pork. Soak beans over night, pour off water and barely cover 
with fresh water; add saft pork cut in small pieces, boil 
until the pork is tender. Chop one small onion, add one clove 
garlic, brown in one tablespoonful olive oil. Add one teaspoon- 
ful of Gebhardt's Chilli powder, one tablespoonful Worcester- 
shire and add to the beans, then add one can tomatoes. 

N. B. — Do not substitute any other chilli powder and in 
adding water to beans the top of beans must be above water, 
or they will not absorb all of the tomatoes. Cook over very 
slow fire four hours. Add salt if needed. 

MRS. PHILIP S. DICKINSON. 

Correct Sauces for Meat.— >Roast Beef — Grated Horse- 
radish. Roast Veal — Tomato or horseradish sauce. Roast 
Mutton — Currant Jelly. Roast Pork — Apple Sauce. Roast 
Lamb — Mint Sauce. Roast Turkey — Chestnut Dressing and 
Cranberry Jelly. Roast Venison — Grape Jelly or Black Currant 
Jelly. Roast Goose — Tart Apple Sauce. Roast Quail — Celery 
Sauce and Currant Jelly. Roast Chicken — Bread Sauce. Fried 
Chicken — Cream Gravy and Corn Fritters. Roast Duck- 
Orange Salad. Cold Boiled Tongue — Sauce Tartare or Olives 
Stuffed with Peppers. Corn Beef — Mustard. Lobster Cutlet 
—Sauce Tartare. Fresh Salmon — Cream Sauce and Green 
Peas. 

MRS. C. E. BURKE. 



S. J. SILL COMPANY 

BERKELEY'S BEST PROVIDERS OF 

Groceries, Fresh Fruits, Vegetables, Etc. 

Home Made Cakes, Bread, Delicacies 
and Kitchen Utensils 

SHATTUCK AVENUE AT ALLSTON WAY 

BERKELEY. CALIFORNIA 

Private Exchange Connecting 
PHONE BERKELEY 5204 All Departments 

Phone Berkeley 6735 ORDERS SOLICITED 

THE IDEAL MARKET 

F. J. KOCKRITZ, Proprietor 

Choice Fresh and Smoked Meats 

FISH AND POULTRY 

1677 SHATTUCK AVENUE BERKELEY, CAL 

ALMA G. VASS ETHEL F. ANDERSON 

...THE DESIGNERS... 

Cordially Invite You to Visit Their Craft Shop Where 

You will Find Embroidered Things. 

ALSO ATTRACTIVE CHRISTMAS SUGGESTIONS 

STAMPING STENCEUNG PERFORATING 



2708 RUSSEL ST. AT COLLEGE AVENUE 

PHONE BERKELEY 1729 BERKELEY. CALIFORNIA 

5 



Sweet Breads (An Entree). — Fifty cents sweetbreads and 
ten cents brains. Serves six. Throw sweetbreads and brains 
into pan of salty tepid water and let stand one hour or more. 
Skin and separate sweetbreads and put into pan of cold 
water with half clove garlic, one piece celery cut fine, two 
small red peppers, dried, and let come to a boil on very slow 
fire. Boil twenty minutes, on simmerer and put in brains for 
last four minutes. Have can of small French mushrooms 
opened and liquid put in cup. After sweetbreads and brains 
have cooked, drain (saving liquid). Put two tablespoonfuls 
butter in a pan to brown and thicken with two tablespoonfuls 
flour, thin this with sweetbread liquor and add liquor of 
mushrooms, or as much as needed. Put mushrooms in and 
cook three or four minutes, then add sweetbreads and brain. 
Serve on toast or patty shells. This can be made the day 
before and heated up in a double boiler at serving time. 

MRS. INEZ S. DAM. 



CAKE 

Mocha Cake. — Two cups sugar, half cup butter, cream 
together; two well beaten eggs, three and half cups flour 
(measured after sifting), three level teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one cup milk. 

Filling. — Two cups powdered sugar, half cup butter creamed, 
three tablespoonfuls coffee, half teaspoonful vanilla, one table- 
spoonful ground chocolate. 

MRS. W. H. CONNER. 

Sponge Cake. — One cup sugar, two eggs (well beaten), one 
teaspoonful baking powder, sifted in one cup flour. Stir well, 
then stir in one-third cup boiling water, bake quickly. Makes 
two layers, 

MRS. T. H. GOODSPEED. 

Devil's Food Cake. — Half cup butter, one cup sugar, yolks 
two eggs, half cup grated chocolate melted in two tablespoon- 
fuls boiling water, two-thirds cup sweet milk with one level 
teaspoonful soda dissolved, two cups flour with one teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, lastly add one teaspoonful vanilla and 
well beaten whites of two eggs. Mix chocolate with sugar, 
butter, milk, and the yolks of eggs. 

Filling. — One and half cups powdered sugar, one large 
tablespoonful butter creamed together, two tablespoonfuls 
cream or milk. 

Frosting, Ordinary boiled frosting. — One cup sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls boiling water. Cook five minutes and beat into 
the white of one egg well beaten. 

MRS. JESSIE WILLIAMSON. : 

6 



Craft Cake. — One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one cup 
Karo corn syrup, two eggs, one cup milk, half teaspoonful 
soda, one teaspoonful baking powder, three cups flour, spices 
and chocolate if desired. A few raisins cut in small pieces, 
a few currants, a little citron, orange peel and a few dates 
cut into small pieces (in place of these, fresh fruits, as 
cherries, may be used). Spices and chocolate, if desired, may 
be added. Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten eggs, 
then the syrup with soda. Put the fruit into the flour, stir 
all together and bake in a moderate oven in a funnel pan. 

MRS. J. W. FERGUSON. 

Swedish Sponge Cake. — ^Whites four eggs beaten stiff, half 
cup sugar. Beat two minutes by the clock. Yolks four eggs, 
add half cup sugar and beat three minutes. Beat altogether 
three minutes and add half cup potato flour, one teaspoonful 
baking powder, pinch salt, flavor and bake fifteen minutes. 

MRS. C. A. HORNER. 

Ginger Bread. — One cup soft fat (butter, lard, etc.), one cup 
molasses, one cup sugar, one tablespoonful soda, two table- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, half tablespoonful cloves, one tablespoon- 
full ginger, one cup boiling water, two eggs, four and half 
cups flour, one teaspoonful salt. Melt butter and mix with 
sugar and molasses, add beaten eggs and boiling water. When 
cool, add flour and other dry ingredients. This batter can 
be kept two weeks so one can have hot ginger bread when 
desired. 

MRS. FALLIS. 

Chocolate Cake. — Yolk one egg, one cup sugar, cream 
together. Melt two squares unsweetened chocolate and a 
scant tablespoonful butter, one cup sweet milk, one scant 
teaspoonful soda, one and half cups flour. Use white of egg 
for frosting. Bake in two layers. 

MRS. A. H. POTBURY. 

Chocolate Cookies. — Half cup ?ugar, quarter cup melted but- 
ter, one egg unbeaten, one cup flour, half cup chopped nuts, 
half cup chocolate (raisins, dates or prunes may be added). 

Chocolate Cakes. — Two whites of eggs, one cup powdered 
sugar, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful ground 
chocolate, one cup bread crumbs, one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Beat white of eggs to thick froth, add sugar gradually, mix 
chocolate, cinnamon and crumbs together and add these to 
eggs, add vanilla and beat all together well. Drop from a 
teaspoon onto a well greased baking sheet and bake in a 
moderate oven. Very much like macaroons. 

MRS. ARCH MACDONALD. 



Dutch Coffee Cake. — Prepare the following filling first: 
One and one-quarter cups light brown sugar (rolled and 
sifted), one tablespoonful melted butter, one and half tea- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls flour, three-quarters 
cup chopped raisins, three-quarters cup coarsely chopped nuts, 
mix all together (Do not cook). 

Then make following cake: Beat two eggs, add to them 
one cup milk. Into sifter, put three level cups flour (meas- 
ured after sifting), one level cup sugar, three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, pinch salt. Sift together in large bowl, add 
milk and eggs, beat well and then add four large tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, a few drops vanilla. Beat well and then 
put half the quantity into a long pan, spreading well over 
the bottom. Sprinkle half the filling over that, then the 
remainder of cake dough and last the remainder of filling. 
Bake thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Test with a 
straw before taking out of oven. 

MRS. H. J. McNULTY. 

Fruit Layer Cake. — Three-quarters cup butter, one and half 
cups sugar, half cup New Orleans molasses, one cup milk, 
three well beaten eggs, half cup coarsely chopped raisins, 
one level teaspoonful cinnamon, quarter teaspoonful cloves, 
half teaspoonful nutmeg, half teaspoonful lemon extract, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, three cups flour (level, measured 
before sifting), pinch salt. Put paper on tins. This makes 
three very large layers. 

Filling (Should be prepared and cooled). — Into a double 
boiler put one teaspoonful butter, level tablespoonful flour, 
pinch salt, cream together. Add juice and grated rind one 
orange, grate one large tart apple, a little of the rind of one 
lemon and teaspoonful juice. Stir all together until hot 
and then add three-quarters cup sugar and lastly one well 
beaten egg. Cook until the right consistency to spread be- 
tween the layers. Make a thin icing for.^op. 

A^RS. R. Y. HILL. 

White Cake. — One cup sugar, half cup butter (scant), half 
cup milk, one and half cups flour with two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, whites three eggs, beaten stiff and added last, 
one teaspoonful flavoring. Bake in three layers. 

Chocolate Filling. — One and half cups powdered sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls butter, cream together, mix with two or 
three tablespoonfuls ground chocolate, dissolved in two 
tablespoonfuls milk melted over boiling water, add half tea- 
spoonful vanilla. 

MRS. ARTHUR BANKER. 
8 



THE H OUSE OF H INK^S 

Established to make it Unnecessary for the 

Women of Berkeley to go Elsewhere 

to do their Shopping 

TR Y HINK^S FIR ST 

J. F. HINK & SON, Inc. 

SHATTUCK AT KITTRIDGE 

PHONE BERKELEY 2972 

MISS R. GUTTMANN 

. . . MODISTE . . . 

INDIVIDUALITY GIVEN TO ALL GOWNS 
GOWNS ALTERED OR MADE OVER 



2326 FULTON STREET BERKELEY. CAL. 

Phone Berkeley 6227 

Berryman French Laundry 

Mme. CECILE BOURDA, Prop. 

Gentlemen's Work Our Specialty- 
Laces and Lace Curtains Done Up Like New 
ALL WORK DONE BY HAND 



1448 SHATTUCK AVENUE 

Bet. Rose and Vine Sts. BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA 

9 



Eggless Chocolate Cake. — fOne cup sugar, five tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter, one teaspoonful soda, one and half cups 
flour, half cup cocoa or ground chocolate, half teaspoonful 
salt, one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful vanilla. Baking 
powder and sweet milk can be used instead of sour milk and 
soda, in same quantities.. Bake in layers or gen pans or loaf 
in moderate oven. 

MRS. HERBERT McKIBBON. 

Bangor Cake. — One and half cups sugar, half cup butter, 
three eggs, three cups flour, one and half teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one cup milk, flavor with vanilla — vary by using 
almond. Cream sugar and butter, add yolks eggs, and beat 
well, put in milk, then add flour and baking powder and after 
this has been well stirred, fold in well beaten whites of eggs. 
Some brands flour require less than three cups flour. 

MRS. H. A. JOHNSON. 

Apple Sauce Cake. — Two cups flour, one cup sugar, one and 
half cups apple sauce, half cup shortening, one cup seedless 
raisins, or chopped walnuts, one level teaspoonful soda, one 
tablespoonful hot water, half teaspoonful cloves, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, pinch salt. Sweeten apple sauce as for 
table use. Dissolve soda in the tablespoonful hot water. 

MRS. F. H. TIBBETTS. 

Potato Cake. — Two cups sugar, one cup butter, (or three- 
fourths cup cottolene), one cup hot mashed potatoes, one 
cup chopped walnuts, half cup sweet milk, two cups flour, 
four eggs, well beaten, five tablespoonful melted chocolate, 
one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, nutmeg, and one tea- 
spoonful cloves, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

MRS. F. H. TIBBETTS. 

Chocolate Loaf Cake. — Half cup butter, one cup sugar, three 
eggs, one cup milk, one and half cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, three tablespoonfuls chocolate, vanilla, one 
cup chopped walnuts. 

MRS. C A. HORNER. 

Chocolate Drop Cakes. — Melt three squares Baker's choco- 
late, add one cup milk, boil together until thick, add one 
teaspoonful vanilla. Set aside. Now take half cup butter, 
two cups brown sugar, two eggs reserving the white of one, 
add melted chocolate, two and half cups flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, pinch salt. Drop in teaspoonfuls on 
buttered pans. Moderate Oven. 

Frosting. — White of egg whipped stiff, one and quarter 
cups powdered sugar, two or three tablespoonfuls cream or 
condensed milk. 

MRS. McMillan. •; 

10 



Prune Cake. — One cup white sugar, three-quarters cup 
butter or other shortening, two cups flour, one cup chopped 
cooked prunes, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls sour milk or 
cream, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
spices to taste, i. e. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, half teaspoonful 
cloves, half teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Icing. — Cook one cup sugar and one-third cup boiling 
water until it threads. Beat the white of one egg very stifif, 
beat the syrup into the egg, add half cup chopped prunes and 
half cup chopped nuts and one-third teaspoonful vanilla. 

MRS. WARD B. ESTERLY. 

COOKIES 

Hermits. — Two cups brown sugar, two eggs, three-fourths 
cup butter, half teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful cinnamon, 
one-third teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little hot water, 
half cup raisins, half cup nut meats, flour enough to mix 
stiff. Bake in shallow pans about thirty minutes. 

MRS. J. EVAN ARMSTRONG. 

Cornerstone Cookies. — One cup butter, one cup sugar, two 
eggs, one cup raisins, one cup nuts, one teaspoonful cinnamon, 
two cups flour, four cups rolled oats, four tablespoonfuls milk, 
one teaspoonful soda, pinch of salt, one teaspoonful vanilla (half 
cup chocolate may be added). 

Drop Cookies. — Half cup butter, one and half cups sugar, 
two beaten eggs, one cup milk, one teaspoonful grated nutmeg, 
one cup flour sifted with one teaspoonful baking powder, then 
add sufficient flour to make dough soft enough to drop from 
teaspoon on buttered pan. Bake in hot oven. 

MRS. H. A. JOHNSON. 

Oatmeal Cookies. — Two cups oatmeal, one cup flour, one 
cup sugar, half cup butter or shortening of any kind, half 
cup rnilk, one egg, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little 
salt. Cut one pound raisins, dates in two and just before 
rolling mix them in, add also one cup chopped nuts. Roll 
thin and cut into cakes, bake quickly. 

MRS. C. E. BURKE. 

Fruit Cookies. — One and half cups granulated sugar, one 
cup of butter, one pound of raisins, three eggs, two and half 
cups of flour, half teaspoonful soda dissolved in quarter cup 
of hot water, one heaping teaspoonful cinnamon, half tea- 
spoonful cloves, half teaspoonful grated nutmeg, half tea- 
spoonful allspice, one cup of nutmeats. Drop in small 
spoonfuls on buttered tins and bake in a cool oven. 

. . MRS. W. J. TAYLOR. 

11 



Chocolate Cookies. — Half cup melted butter, one cup brown 
sugar, one egg, one and half cups sifted flour, half cup milk, 
two heaping tablespoonfuls chocolate, one teaspoonful vanilla, 
half teaspoonful soda, one cup walnuts, chopped coarsely. 
Drop from teaspoon on buttered pan. Bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. ELBERT BEEDLE. 



DESSERT 

Date Nut Torte. — Beat two eggs well, add one cup sugar, 
one cup walnuts broken in small pieces, one cup dates, one- 
third cup flour sifted with one teaspoonful baking powder, 
pinch salt. Mix and turn into a layer cake tin and bake in a 
moderate oven about thirty minutes. Set on top grate as it 
burns very easily. When cool turn into glass dish, cover with 
whipped cream. Serve in small pieces in sherbet glasses. 

MRS. J. H. BERESFORD. 

Fig Pudding. — One loaf baker's bread soaked in two cups 
cold water, one cup chopped suet, two cups sugar, half- 
pound figs, two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful 
soda; steam three hours. 

Sauce. — One cup powdered sugar, one tablespoonful butter, 
three tablespoonfuls boiling water, vanilla. 

MRS. H. M. HOWARD. 

Peach Marmalade. — Eighteen peaches, peel and dice, one 
large orange (grind the peel through a chopper — dice the pulp), 
one small lemon (grate rind and use the juice only). Propor- 
tions — equal parts sugar and peaches. Add orange and lemon 
juice, let boil a few minutes and then simmer very slowly 
to the consistency of marmalade. Stir frequently as it burns 
very easily. 

MRS. D. A. PITT. 

Grape Juice (Use dark jelly grapes). — Ten pounds grapes, 
stem them and cover with water, boil. When seeds drop out, 
put in bag and strain. Measure. If too rich and thick, water 
may be added to make desired consistency. 

Proportions — One quart juice to half pound sugar (granu- 
lated). Boil fifteen minues after it begins to boil. Put in 
Mason jars and seal. 

MRS. D. A. PITT. 

Peach Cream. — One can cling peaches, one cup sugar, three 
eggs, one pint cream. Drain and chop peaches, add sugar and 
juice of peaches and boil for ten minutes. Remove from 
fire and add the eggs well beaten. When cool add the cream 
and pack in freezer for several hours. 

MRS. PAUL JONES. 

n 



PHONE BERKELEY 3642 

WINSTON'S 

Fine Pastry an d Confectionery 

You Will Find Other Good Cakes 
and Cookies at 

....WINSTON'S.... 

2148 CENTER STREET BERKELEY. CAL. 

OPTICIAN ENGRAVING PHONE BERKELEY 878 

L. H. SERVICE 

DIAMONDS. WATCHES. CLOCKS. JEWELRY, CHINA 

STERLING AND SILVER PLATED WARE 

CUT GLASS. ETC. 

2134 CENTER STREET BERKELEY. CAL. 

PHONE BERKELEY 1415 

LE PETIT BEJOU 

Mme. A. DURAND VOORHIES 

SHAMPOO. SCALP TREATMENT AND MANICURING 

A SPECIALTY 

HAIR WORK. SWITCHES. TRANSFORMATION, ETC., ETC . 



2135 CENTER STREET BERKELEY. CAL. 

13 



Lemon Pie. — Three-fourths cup sugar, three eggs, one large 
lemon (or two small). Separate whites, beat yolks, add 
sugar, add juice and bccit all together. Put in double boiler 
and cook until as thick as very heavy cream. Have whites 
beaten stiff and fold into custard. Have shell baked and just 
ready to remove from oven, pour in custard and brown 
slightly. 

MRS. J. ARTHUR KELLY. 

Marshmallow Pudding. — Ten cent box marshmallows, pink 
or white, fifteen cent can sliced pineapple, one cup walnuts 
broken in small pieces,- twenty cents worth whipping cream, 
white of one egg beaten stiff and mxed with the cream just 
before serving. Cut marshmallows in four pieces, cut pine- 
apple in small pfeces and let stand together 'about one-half 
hour. Whip cream and mix with marshmallows, pineapple 
and nuts just before serving. You may also add oranges and 
bananas to the pudding. 

MRS. LEIGHTON SMITH. 

Steam Carrot Pudding (Especially good for children). — One 
cup grated raw potatoes to which is added half teaspoonful 
soda, one cup grated raw carrots, one cup raisins, one cup 
flour, one cup brown sugar, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful allspice, one teaspoonful 
nutmeg, butter the size of egg. Steam two hours or more 
and serve with hard sauce. 

MRS. PHILIP S. DICKINSON. 

Sauce. — Hard Foamy Sauce. One cup sugar, half cup 
butter, two eggs, juice one lemon. Beat egg whites stiff, 
gradually beat yolks into whites, very gradually add creamed 
butter and sugar, and very gradually add lemon juice to 
avoid curdling. This should have the appearance of whipped 
cream. Make just before serving. 

. Mrs. F. H. MacNAIR. 

German Apple Pudding. — ^Three pints of cooked and sweet- 
ened apple sauce, one cup flour, one teaspoonful baking 
powder, half teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful shortening, 
one egg, four tablespoonfuls cold water, two-thirds cup sugar. 
Beat white egg to stiff froth, add one teaspoonful of white to 
yolk and beat. Mix sugar, water, flour, salt and shortening 
with beaten yolk. Add beaten white. Put, batter on the 
bottom of pudding pan. Pour over this the apple sauce boiling- 
hot. Bake in a medium oven to a light brown. When done 
the batter will be on top. Serve hot with cream. 

MRS. WARD ESTERLY.^ 

14 



Kisses. — One cup sugar, three eggs (whites), one pinch salt, 
vanilla, half teaspoonful lemon ju,ice. Beat the whites eggs 
very stiff, add sugar a teaspoonful at a time until one-half 
is used. Add the rest at pleasure. Add vanilla and lemon 
juice last. This quantity makes nine good-sized kisses. Bake 
on paraffine paper in slow oven for twenty minutes. Then 
remove from the oven, carefully slip a spatula or knife blade 
under each kiss, return to oven and bake twenty-five minutes 
longer, serve garnished with any combination of fruit you like 
and whipped cream. 

MRS. W. R. PATTON. 

Chipped Pears. — Eight pounds bartlett pears (not too ripe), 
six pounds sugar, half pound crystalized ginger, four lemons 
sliced thin, quartered and boiled until tender (about three- 
quarters hour). Slice pears and boil with sugar and ginger 
about one hour, add lemons and boil until dark colored and 
rich looking. 

MRS. L. A. PATTEN. 

Ambrosia. — First — Dissolve one rounded tablespoonful gela- 
tine in half cup cold water and stir over fire until thoroughly 
dissolved. Second — Add another half cup cold water to hot 
gelatine and let it stand to cool a little until you separate 
the white of four eggs. Third — Beat the whites of eggs with 
pinch salt stiff and then pour the dissolved gelatine very 
slowly into the beaten whites and beat all the time while 
pouring in the gelatine. Fourth — Sprinkle in one cup sugar 
and continue beating. Fifth — Add one teaspoonful vanilla or 
almond extract and beat until thoroughly mixed. Sixth — 
Take out one-third of the mixture (if you wish to have two 
colors) and tint pink. Spread it over the bottom of the dish, 
sprinkle chopped pecan nuts over that; on top of that put 
the second third of the white and more chopped nuts; the 
last third tint lavender and spread on top of white layer. 
Serve with whipped cream flavored with vanilla. A wire 
spoon beater is better for the making of this pudding, as it 
beats air into the whites of the eggs. Serves ten. 

MRS. H. B. MATTHEWS: 
Corn Starch Pudding. — One pint water, two tablespoonfuls 
corn starch, juice one lemon, butter size walnut, two bananas, one 
orange, half cup nuts, three tablespoonfuls sugar. Smooth corn 
starch in a little of the water, add sugar to the remainder. When 
it boils, pour in cornstarch and lemon and cook until clear. 
Put one-third sliced fruit and nuts in mold. Pour over one- 
third cornstarch. Then fruit, etc. When cold turn out and 
serve with whipped cream. Any kind of fruit may be used. 

MRS. J. W. PORTER, Jr. 
15 



Thanksgiving Relish.— One pound dates, one pound figs, 
one pound almonds. Put fruit through mincer twice, and 
nuts once. Mix all together. Divide into sections of one 
tablespoonful each and twist up in oiled paper. 

MRS. C. E. BURKE. 

Black Pudding. — One cup sour milk or cream, half cup 
molasses, yolks two eggs, half cup melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful soda, salt, enough flour to make medium stiff. 
Beat butter and molasses very light, stirring in other ingred- 
ients and steam three hours. Add raisins and nuts if desired. 

MRS. J. W. PORTER, Jr. 

Banberry Tarts. — Filling — One and half cups sugar, rind 
and juice of one half lemon, half cup butter, half nutmeg, 
grated, two eggs, three tablespoonfuls milk, one and half cups 
currants, one teaspoonful vanilla. 

Line patty tins with rich pastry and put in filling and bake. 

MRS. C. E. BURKE. 

Coffee Pudding. — Half cup milk, half cup sugar, half cup 
coffee, pinch salt, yolks three eggs well beaten, one table- 
spoonful Knox's gelatine, half teaspoonful vanilla. Cook 
until it thickens and add whites three eggs. 

MRS. C. P. BOWIE. 

Suet Pudding. — Two eggs, one cup milk, half cup molasses, 
one teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, three 
small cups flour, one cup chopped suet, half teaspoonful 
cinnamon, half teaspoonful cloves, half teaspoonful grated 
nutmeg, one cup currants, half cup raisins (cut in halves). 
Wash currants in hot water thoroughly, dry and sprinkle 
with flour. Mix all dry ingredients together, add the eggs, 
well beaten, molasses and milk. Put in pudding mold and 
steam three hours, keeping the pan covered tight 

Sauce. — Half cup butter, two cups sugar, a little boiling 
water. Beat together and add cornstarch to thicken, flavor 
to taste. 

MRS. H. B. MATTHEWS. 

16 



PHONE ALAMEDA 3616 

OSGOOD HOWARD 

Manufacturer of 

PURE FLAVORING EXTRACTS 

Guaranteed under the Pure Food and Drugs Act June 30, 1906 

Serial No. 54742 

2840 ADAMS STREET ALAMEPA, CAL. 

PHONE BERKELEY 950 

C. McCONNELL 

PRIVATE DAIRY 

RUST, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY, Recommended By 

CALIFORNIA DR. H. J. McNULTY 

PHONES BERKELEY 147, 148 BERKELEY 3636 

Berkeley Pharmacy 

MARTIN & CLAYW^ORTH 

PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTS 



2134 SHATTUCK AVE. BERKELEY, CAL. 

17 



BREAD 

Nut Bread.— One egg, three-fourths cup sugar, one cup 
milk, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, three- 
fourths cup wahiuts chopped, pinch salt. Let rise twenty 
minutes in pan and bake slowly one hour. 

MRS. FRANK H. RICKER. 

Graham Bread. — Two cups white flour, two cups graham 
flour, four teaspoonfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful salt, 
one cup sugar, two cups milk, one cup nuts, one cup raisins, 
one egg. Let rise ten minutes and bake forty-five minutes. 

MRS. J. W. PORTER, Jr. 

Boston Brown Bread. — Three cups graham flour, one cup 
yellow cornmeal, one cup white flour, two cups sour milk, 
one and one-eighth cups New Orleans molasses, one teaspoon- 
ful salt, one rounding teaspoonful soda, one cup lukewarm 
water. Sift yellow corn meal, flour, salt and soda together into 
a large bowl, then add the graham flour without sifting, mix 
together dry. Then add molasses and sour milk, stir well 
and add water last, mix all very thoroughly. Makes one 
large loaf or two small. Use two and half pound lard tins, 
steam steadily four hours. Lard the tins well. 

MRS. H. J. McNULTY. 

Bran Bread. — Two cups buttermilk (or sour milk), one and 
half teaspoonfuls soda (put into the milk), one pinch cream 
of tartar, pinch salt, half cup molasses, two cups Ralstons 
bran, two cups graham flour, one cup raisins. Bake slowly 
for one hour. 

MRS. CYRIL A. CROSS. 

Bran Muffins (Twelve Mufifins). — One tablespoonful melted 
butter, half teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful sugar, one egg 
beaten well, one cup milk, one and one-quarter cups flour, one 
cup bran, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. For white mufTins 
use two cups flour. 

MRS. RICHARD VAUGHN. 
18 



Egg Rolls. — One egg well beaten in the bowl which the 
biscuits are to be made, half teacup milk, one teaspoonful 
baking powder, half tablespoonful melted butter. Put baking 
powder into a heaping cup flour, add pinch salt. If necessary 
add a little more flour. Flour board, roll and pat out the 
dough, form into small rolls and bake ten or fifteen minutes. 

MRS. H. B. MATTHEWS. 



VEGETABLES 

Mexican Rice. — One cup rice, four tomatoes, three onions, 
three bell peppers, one rounded tablespoonful lard or drip- 
pings. Wash and dry the rice. Brown in the hot fat (Oil 
may be used if preferred) stirring constantly until each 
grain is a delicate brown. Then add onions and peppers cut 
fine (Not chopped) stirring until they are soft. Add tomatoes 
cut into small pieces and enough water to cover, season to 
taste with salt, sugar, paprika and Worcestershire. Cook 
in slow oven in casserole or iron skillet tightly covered for 
forty-five minutes. 

MRS. W. PATTON. 



PHONE BERKELEY 683 FULL WEIGHT GUARANTEED 

H. J. HANEY 

DEALER IN 

WOOD, COAL, HAY AND GRAIN 
ALL KINDS OF MILL FEED 

JOB TEAMING DONE 



2550-52 SHATTUCK AVENUE 

Cor. Blake Street BERKELEY, CAL 

19 



INDEX 

Page 

Salad 1 

Meat 1 

Cake 6 

Cookies 11 

Dessert 12 

Bread 18 

Vegetables 19 



20 



14 DAY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 

AGRICULTURE LIBRARY 

40 Giannini Mali - Tel. No. 642-4493 
This book is due on the last date stamped below, or 
on the date to which renewed. 
Renewed books are subject to immediate recall. 



Mm-iii 




LD 21-40m-2,'69 
(J6057sl0)476 — A-32 



General Library 

University of California 

Berkeley 



GAYLAMOUNT 

PAMPHLET BJNOcR 

Mam,foctur»d by 

GAYLORD BROS. Inc. 

SyracuM, N.Y. 

Stockton, ColJf . 



RETURN NATURAL RESOURCES LIBRARY 

TO""i^^ 40 Gianinni Hall Tel. No. 642 



LOAN PERIOD 1 
7 DAYS 



ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DA> 



DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 



