mm 




(%&• 



IT jMLiw/ 1. 

RECIPES 




OF THE 

WORLD FAHOU5 OiEfxJ 

UNITED 3TATEJ - - - CA/SAOA 
EUROPE 



Bread and Pastry 
Recipes 



of the 

WORLD FAMOUS CHEFS 

United States 

Canada 

Europe 



The Bread and Pastry Book 

From the 

INTERNATIONAL COOKING LIBRARY 



Compiled and Edited by 
A. C. HOFF 



Los Angeles, Cal. 

International Publishing Co. 

1913 






COMPILED, EDITED AND COPYRIGHTED 

BY 

A. C. HOFF 

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 

1913 



^357613 



CONTRIBUTORS 



Emile Bailly, Chef Hotel St. Regis New York City 

Jean S. Berdou. Chef Hotel Astor New York City 

Jean Millon. Ohef Ritz-Oarlton New York City 

Henry Berger, Chef Frankfurter-Hof Frankfurt. Germany 

Jules Kohler, Chef Hotel Adlon Berlin, Germany 

G. Milhau, Chef Tait-Zinkand Cafe San Francisco 

Adrian Delvaux, Chef Hotel Baltimore Kansas City 

Otto Geutsch, Chef Hotel Windsor Montreal 

Joseph D. Campazzi. Chef — Royal Poinciana Palm Beach 

E. C. Perault. Chef Planters Hotel St. Louis 

>^- John Chiappano, Chef Auditorium Hotel Chicago 

Geo. R. Meyer. Chef Rector's Cafe Chicago 

Gerard Embregts. Chef Chateau Frontenac Quebec 

Louis Pfaff. Chef New Willard Hotel Washington 

Henry Johannsen, Chef Hotel Royal Palm Miami 

Victor Hirtzler. Chef Hotel St. Francis San Francisco 

Emile Burgermeister. Chef . . . Hotel Fairmont San Francisco 

Martin Ginder. Chef Hotel Green Pasadena 

Joseph Stoltz. Chef Hotel Ponce de Leon St. Augustine 

Henri Boutroue. Chef Hotel Shelbourne Dublin. Ireland 

Thos. Cooney. Chef Van Nuys Hotel Los Angeles 

Jules Dauviller, Chef Palace Hotel San Francisco 

Arthur Taylor. Chef Hotel Raymond Pasadena 

Ernest Otzenberger. Chef Hotel Dennis Atlantic City 

Cesar Obrecht. Chef Grand Hotel de L'Europe Lucerne. Switzerland 

Jules Boucher, Chef Arlington Hotel Hot Springs 

Chas. Grolimund, Chef Washington Hotel Seattle 

Jean Juillard, Chef Hotel Adolphus Dallas 

Chas. Pier Giorgi. Chef Hotel Alcazar St. Augustine 

Peter Bona, Chef Hotel Chamberlain Fortress Monroe 

Louis Lescarboura, Chef Ft. Pitt Hotel Pittsburgh 

John Pfaff, Chef Hotel Cape May Cape May 

Walter Jurenz. Chef Hotel Galvez Galveston 

S. B. Pettengill. Chef Hotel Ormond Ormond Beach 

Geo. E. Schaff, Chef Hotel Albany Denver 

Ben E. Dupaquier, Chef Hotel Arlington Santa Barbara 

William Leon Benzeni. Chef .Hotel Virginia Long Beach 

Chas. A. Frey, Chef Hotel Alexandria Los Angeles 

Lucien Fusier, Chef Grand Hotel Metropole. . .Interlaken, Switzer- 
land 

G. Cloux, Chef U. S. Grant Hotel San Diego 

A. Schloettke. Chef Westminster Hotel Dresden. Germany 

Lucien Raymond. Chef Hotel Congress & Annex. . Chicago 

Louis Thein, Chef Hotel Utah Salt Lake City 

Jules Edward Bole. Chef Hotel Jefferson St. Louis 

John Bicochi. Chef Hotel Piedmont Atlanta 

Edw. R. J. Fischel, Steward . .Hotel Piedmont Atlanta. 

Leopold Saux, Steward Hotel Grunewald New Orleans 

Henri D. Fouilloux, Steward. .St. Charles Hotel New Orleans 




World Renowned Hotel/ 





Thei r Ch er/Our Contri BUTORf 






World Renowned Hotel/ 






TheirCher/OurContributor/ 






World Renowned Hotel/ 1 



preface 

In presenting to the public this book on BREAD AND 
PASTRY RECIPES we feel that we are presenting the most com- 
plete authoritative and up-to-date book ever prepared on the sub- 
ject. The contributors being the finest chefs in the United States, 
Canada and Europe insure every recipe shown as right. These 
world famous chefs have given us their special recipes and they 
have made the explanations so plain and so complete that any one 
can readily understand them. 

The great chefs who have prepared these recipes for us have 
all made cooking their life work and have been apprenticed under the 
finest and most practical teachers in the culinary lines in this country 
and abroad. 

A large portion of the copy has been translated from the French. 
The finest chefs are generally the French or Swiss. They are not 
literary men; their language is not flowery, but we know that even with 
the difficulty that exists in expressing in English many of the French 
terms that the work as a whole will be easily understood and greatly 
appreciated. 

This is the first time in history that such a wonderful collection 
of recipes have been made obtainable for general use. These men 
are giving, in these recipes, their "professional secrets." The calibre 
of the men who have prepared these recipes is great and represents as 
much as the great masters in other lines of the world's work. Napoleon 
Bonaparte was a great general; Shakespeare, a great author; George 
Washington, a wonderful statesman; and Thomas Edison, a masterful 
inventor: — but we feel that the master chefs represented here are to be 
considered just as great and doing just as much of the world's work as 
any of the famous men we have all been taught to revere and respect. 

The International Cooking Library, covering in ten volumes, every 
conceivable part, section or angle of the cooking question makes it 
possible for any one who will follow these recipes to be an expert cook. 
The great masters who have prepared these recipes have spent their 

8 




TheirChee/Our Contributor/ 



lives studying and experimenting and are giving in these recipes their 
best ideas and suggestions. These are dishes of the millionaires and 
the most particular epicureans. 

We feel that this set of books is presented to the public at just 
the opportune time. All people are beginning to realize that there is 
really no more important art than cooking and this should be so; for 
what should be considered more important than what we eat? The 
best health insurance is having the right kind of foods, properly 
prepared. A man is at his best only when he is in robust health and 
nothing will undermine a person's constitution so quickly as poor 
food. The best dishes and the sure and absolute recipes for making 
them, are contained in this wonderful set of books. All the copy 
is from authorities just as positive and just as sure in this 
line as the noted Blackstone was on legal lines. We picked the best 
chefs in the world; we would accept copy from no others. 

A careful study of the recipes and careful application of the 
directions for same is all that is necessary to produce the results 
that have made these men famous. 

In the presentation of this book, we wish only that space would 
allow us to mention and pay courtesy to the many men who have assisted 
us in the various departments, copy preparation, translation, and 
editing, also the courtesies rendered by the managers of the world 
renowned hotels whose chefs have been our contributors. 

INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY 




QyogLD Renowned Hotel/ 1 




index 



LECTURE ON BREAD MAKING 

FRANK BOCK, Pastry Chef, PALACE HOTEL, San Francisco, Cal 14 



HOW TO MAKE YEAST 

FERMENT 

BREAD MADE OF SPONGE AND 

STRAIGHT DOUGH 
FRENCH SPLIT LOAVES 
HOME MADE BREAD 
VIENNA BREAD MADE OF 

STRAIGHT DOUGH 
PULLMAN BREAD 



YEAST 

COMPRESSED YEAST 

FRENCH BREAD WITH FERMENT 

FOCKOS 
MILK DOUGH 
HOME BREAD WITH WATER 

ONLY 
VIENNA BREAD MADE OF 

SPONGE 



NEW ENGLAND BREAD, Number one RAISIN BREAD 



GLUTEN BREAD 
GERMAN RYE BREAD 
BOSTON BROWN BREAD 
BOSTON BROWN BREAD WITH 

SODA OR BAKING POWDER 
BOSTON CREAM TOAST 
DIFFERENT TOASTS GARNISHED 
TOAST WITH OLIVE OIL AND 

CHEESE 
SARDINE TOAST WITH OLIVE OIL 



NEW ENGLAND BREAD Number two 

RYE BREAD 

HALF RYE BREAD 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD WITH 

FERMENT 
PULLED BREAD PALACE 
FRENCH TOAST 
MELBA TOAST 
TOASTS, GARNISHED WITH 

CHICKEN 



FANCY SANDWICHES FOR AFTERNOON TEAS 



.31 



BARLOW SANDWICHES 

SLICED CHICKEN AND LETTUCE 

CHICKEN SALAD PALACE 

TURKEY 

SALAMI 

TOMATO 

WATERCRESS 

LETTUCE 

PIMENTOES 

ANCHOVY PASTE 

PATE DE-FOIE-GR*S 

GAME SANDWICHES 



SCRAPED CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

SHREDDED CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

TURKEY AND TONGUE 

TURKEY, HAM AND TONGUE 

PRESSED BEEF 

SWISS CHEESE 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE 

EGG 

ANCHOVIES 

REGALIA FISH PASTE 

NUTS AND OLIVES 

CAVIAR 



ROLLS 34 



BREAKFAST ROLLS 
MILK ROLLS 
VIENNA ROLLS 
PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 
GRAHAM ROLLS 
ROLLS MADE OF RYE 
FANCY BUNS 
HOT CROSS BUNS 
DRESDEN STOLLEN OR 
CHRISTMAS STOLLEN 



FINGER ROLLS 
WATER ROLLS 
GERMAN ROLLS 
SANDWICH ROLL 
GRAHAM GEMS 
BUNS 
TWISTS 
SALLY LUN 
RAISIN LOAF 



STANDARD DOUGH FOR DIFFERENT COFFEE CAKES 

SMALL CAKES FOR COFFEE OR SNAILS 

TEA PARTIES PLAIN BUND GUGGELHUPF 

NUT BUND CAKE STREUSSELKUCHEN 

VANILLA COFFEE CAKE DOUGH FOR FRUIT TARTS 



III 




TheirCherz-OurContributor/ 




GERMAN ROLLCOUCK 

GREEK BREAD (Pam 'a'la'Grecque) 

BERLIN PANCAKE 

BRIOCHE 

BUNS MADE OF SPONGE 

COCOANUT BUNS 

COFFEE CAKE WITH SPONGE 

GERMAN STREUSSEL 

ALMOND COFFEE CAKE 

CHEESE CAKE 

ZWIEBACK 

CHEESE CAKE BAKED IN 

SQUARES 
YEAST RAISED DOUGHNUTS 
FRENCH CRULLERS 
ENGLISH CRUMPETS 
CRUMPETS, very soft mixture 
CORN MUFFINS 
TEA BISCUITS 
SCONS 
IMITATION FRENCH ROLLS 

WITH BAKING POWDER 
WHEAT CAKES WITH YEAST 
GRAHAM CAKES WITH YEAST 
BUCKWHEAT CAKES 
INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKES 
WAFFLES 

WAFFLE A'LA BOURGEOISE 
FRENCH SWEET WAFFLES 
CONTINENTAL WAFFLES 



ROLLCOUCK 

ROLLCOUCKS AND CRAMICK 

MASARIN 

PLAIN BUNS 

OPERA BUNS 

STREUSSELKUOHEN -GERMAN 

STYLE 
CINNAMON CAKE 
GERMAN APPLE CAKE 
GUGGELHUPF 
PRETZELS 
SALT STICKS 

BAKING POWDER DOUGHNUTS 
ENGLISH CRUMPETS AND 
MUFFINS 
MUFFINS 
WHEAT MUFFINS 
POPOVER 
SANDWICH ROLLS 
CORN BREAD 

GRIDDLE CAKE AND WAFFLKS 
WHEAT CAKES 
GRAHAM BATTER CAKES 
BUCKWHEAT CAKES 
FLANNEL CAKES 
RICE CAKES 
CREAM WAFFLES 
HOLLAND WAFFLES 
RICE WAFFLES 
NEWPORT WAFFLES 



PASTRIES 

PAGE 

JEAN S. BERDOU, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ASTOR, New York City, N. Y 61 

BEIGNETS DE POMMES, Apple Fritters 
PANCAKE A LA CONFITURE 

JEAN JUILLARD, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ADOLPHUS, Dallas, Tex 02 

WAFFLES MACONNAISE 

CHAS. GROLIMUND, Chef de Cuisine, NEW WASHINGTON HOTEL, Seattle G3 

BASLER LECKERLI 

HENRY BERGER, Chef de Cuisine, FRANKFURTER-HOF, Frankfurt, Ger 62 

CHESTER CAKE 

EMILE BAILLY, Chef de Cuisine, ST. REGIS HOTEL, New York, N. Y 64 

GAUFRETTE SUISSE PANCAKE HORTENSIA 

CESAR OBRECHT, Chef de Cuisine, GRAND HOTEL DE'L'EUROPE, Lucerne, 

Switzerland 65 

SOURAROFF 

LOUIS LESCARBOURA, Chef de Cuisine, FT. PITT HOTEL, Pittsburg, Pa 65 

MUFFINS 

MARTIN GINDER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL GREEN, Pasadena, Cal 66 

OLD FASHIONED GRIDDLE CAKES GOLD CAKE 

APPLE PIE SWEET CORN PUDDING 

S. B. PETTENGILL, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ORMOND, Ormond Beach, Fla 07 

BEATEN BISCUIT HOT SPOON BREAD 

GEORGE R. MEYER, Chef de Cuisine, RECTOR'S CAFE, Chicago, 111 68 

CORN BREAD GENOISE CAKE 

SAVARIN WITH STRAWBERRIES-MELBA 
GEORGE E. SCHAAF, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ALBANY, Denver, Colorado.... 63 

ENGLISH MUFFINS 
LOUIS FUSIER, Chef de Cusine, GRAND HOTEL METROPOLE, Interlaken, Switz. 69 
MOUSSELINE CAKE 



II 



CHAS. A. FREY, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ALEXANDRIA, Los Angeles, < la] 69 

BRIOCHES 
ADRIAN DELVAUX, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL BALITMORE, Kansas City, Mo 70 
CORN MUFFINS WAFFLES WITH RASPBERRY JAM 

IK )ME MADE RICE PUDDING CAKE A LA ANNA 

ERNEST OTZENBERGER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL DENNIS, Atlantic City, N. J. 71 

CHERRY FRITTERS FRYING BATTER FOR SWEET DISHES 

BEN E. DUPAQUIER, Chef de Cusines, HOTEL ARLINGTON, Santa Barbara, Cal. 72 
FRENCH PANCAKE WITH JELLY PLUM PUDDING-HARD SAUCE 

CORX MEAL MUFFINS 

CHAS. PIER GIORGI, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ALCAZAR, St. Augustine, Fla 75 

WAFFLES, HONEY INDIAN SPOON BREAD 

JULES KOHLER, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL ADLON, Berlin, Germany 77 

DELICIES DE CAMEMBERT SOUFFLE AU CHESTER 
JULES BOUCHER, Chef de Cuisine, ARLINGTON HOTEL, Hot Springs, Ark. 76 
FRENCH PANCAKES AU CONFITURE 

JULES DAUVILLER, Chef de Cuisine, PALACE HOTEL, San Francisco, Cal 77 

QUEEN CAKES 
PETER BONA, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL CHAMBERLAIN, Fortress Monroe, Va. 78 

VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD CORN CAKES 

A. SCHLOETTKE, Chef de Cuisine, WESTMINSTER HOTEL, Dresden, Germany. . 79 
PETITES SOUFFLES AU PARMESAN 

HENRI BOUTROUE, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL SHELBOURNE, Dublin, Ire 74 

BLINIS 

JOHN BICOCHI, Chef de Cuisine, HOTEL PIEDMONT, Atlanta, Ga '. . . 74 

OLD FASHIONED BUCKWHEAT CAKES VIENNA BRIOCHES 

LOUIS THEIN, Former Chef, HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City, Utah 76 

PLUM PUDDING 

G. MILHAU, Chef de Cuisine, TAIT-ZINKAND CAFE. San Francisco, Cal 79 

TARTLETTES CALIFORNIA 



12 




TheirCher/OurContributor/ 




fP%m. 




Peb^kBocK; 



5 OLE -f.Livr; 



13 




PRINCIPAL FACTS AND RULES 
ABOUT BREAD MAKING 

To make bread is generally thought to be a 
very simple task, but it requires a thorough 
knowledge of the flours, as to their quality and 
strength; also of yeast as to its freshness. The 
climate, season, weather and temperature as well 
as the different degrees of baking heat needed 
for the various kinds of bread and rolls must 
be well studied, as they are factors to be con- 
sidered; practice will teach these essential points. 
Bread being the staff of life, maintaining life 
longer than any other single food, should be 
made of the best materials to be healthful and 
strengthening. The superior qualities of this 
plain and simple food often induces people to 
overlook other shortcomings at meals. Estab- 
lishments supplying a uniform, soft, sweet and 
fine grained delicious bread are known every- 
where, for the superiority of their goods. Bakers 
encounter most difficulties from the varieties of 
flours in use. The east of this country produces 
flours of different qualities than the west. Good 
results only can be obtained by profound study 
of how to use them. Flours are classed as 
Spring wheat. Winter wheats are divided into 
Winter wheat and soft white Winter Wheat. 



FRANK BOCK 

PASTRY CHEF 

PALACE HOTEL 

San Francisco, Ca], 

Mr. Bock, prior to 
coming to the Palace, 
was with some of the 
best hotels in New York 
and Chicago as Pastry 
Chef. The Palace Hotel 
is noted for its Breads 
and Pastries. 

Mr. Jules Dauviller, 
the Chef de Cuisine at 
the Palace Hotel, was 
formerly the $10,000 a 
year director of Cuisine 
in the home of Mr. and 
Mrs. Harry Payne 
Whitney, New York 
City. They got him 
from the Grand Hotel 
in Paris. 

Winter wheat and 

hard and soft red 

The soft grades are used for cake baking. Winter wheat flour excels 

in flavor and gives more moisture to the bread and also makes a 

larger and lighter loaf. Practical bakers use two and even three 

different brands of flour, from as many different mills. 

Testing flour as to its strength may be made in taking of different 
flours the same quantities, mix them with the same quantity of 
water and the flour making the finest dough is the best. Another 
manner, but not as reliable can be made in pressing a small quantity 
of flour in the hand; if good it will retain its shape, coarse flour falls 
apart like sand. 

14 



TheirBread /Pa/try Regpej 1 




Wheat flour should not be used, when freshly milled. Experienced 
bakers keep a certain supply of about six months' age on hand. The 
older the flour gets the whiter it will be and the better it will rise. 

Western flours contain more starch than eastern flours. They 
are classed as weak flours but generally have a good flavor. 

Graham flour consists of the entire grain ground up; the wheat 
should be good plump grain, but often is only bran mixed with second 
grade flours or ground corn. Graham flour should be bought from a 
reliable mill where only good wheat is used for the purpose. 

Rye flour must be used freshly milled as in ageing it loses its 
flavor and strength. Corn meal, mostly in form of mush is also 
used in breads. 

BREAD MAKING 
Bread, making is an operation divided in the preparation of 
the stock yeast, the ferment, the sponge, the dough, the moulding 
and the baking. In using compressed yeast, it saves time and labor. 
The manipulation is divided in only the sponge, the dough, the mould- 
ing and the baking. The exact quantity of flour and liquids to be 
used is very difficult to state as the variety of flours in the different 
parts of the country demands the judgment of the baker as to adding 
or decreasing the amount required. 

In making doughs, especially the straight dough, the usual 
heat of the liquid must be lukewarm, from about seventy degrees to 
seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit. The flour should be kept in a 
warm dry place and also have the same temperature. In summer the 
straight dough may be mixed with ice water instead of warm. Fer- 
mentation sets in only some time after and the flour will become 
whiter, being longer in the dough state. 

THE BAKE SHOP 

The room or shop in which bread is made must be scrupulously 
clean, an evenly regulated temperature from about sixty to seventy 
degrees should prevail. This is obtained by heating or ventilating. 
Drafts injuring the raising of the dough must be prevented. 

A steam chest is necessary in places where business on a larger 
scale is carried on. The goods can be raised in a shorter space of 

Vo 




World Famous Chefj 1 



time. To save Labor and time, (roughs, benches, tables and other 
appliances, should be located in the handiest places. 

Utensils for bread making are simple and few. An enameled 
cast iron pot to cook potatoes, two tubs thirty inches deep and twenty 
inches in diameter, one for yeast, the other for ferment. A potato 
masher, a sieve to strain the hop water for stock, yeast and common 
yeast, a strainer for ferment, a sieve to sift flour, a dipper holding 
two quarts and a set of measures, to measure the liquids, casseroles 
to heat small quantities of liquids, also to melt lard or butter in. 
A wooden bowl for rubbing and mixing doughs like corn muffins; a 
pliable palette knife to scrape the dough from the sides of the bowl. 
A scraper, a strong iron plate with wooden handle fastened across 
the longest side of the plate, five inches wide and four inches long, 
for cutting and dividing the dough, also to scrape down the dough 
adhering to the sides of the trough. A bench brush and a dough 
brush, both long and flat about ten inches in length; a washbrush 
with handle ten inches in the whole length, handle to be five inches 
long to wash bread and rolls when taken out of the oven. Flat hair 
brushes, two inches wide, for greasing moulds and washing rolls, 
etc., with egg wash; a very thin, sharp plated knife, for making the 
incisions on bread and roils; a pair of sharp and pointed scissors. 
Bread boxes measuring in the square thirty inches and four inches 
deep to raise the divided and moulded dough. Cloths, generally 
made of coarse linen, as sail cloth, to fit into this box, the length should 
be about twenty-five inches more, as they must be raised so as to 
support the bread or rolls which are baked on the hearth; one large 
rolling pin, made of hard wood with handles about three feet long 
and one inch and three-quarters in diameter. One or two smaller 
ones tw r o feet long and five-eighths of an inch in diameter. Two 
hard wood boards, one ten inches long and four inches wide, the 
other twelve inches long and eight inches wide, very thin on one 
side and the other side half an inch thick on the long sides, to raise 
the bread from the boxes to the peel. Wooden peels with handles 
long enough to reach the farthest end of the oven, one with a plate 
twelve inches wide and thirty inches long for bread, the other fifteen 
inches wide and thirty-two inches long for rolls. 

Russian sheet iron baking pans with sloping sides, bottom 

16 





Their Bread / Paltry Reci vw 



twenty-two inches long by .sixteen inches wide, top twenty-three 
inches long by seventeen and a half inches wide, height four inches 
for American loaves, containing six loaves of three pounds in weight. 

Baking pans of Russian sheet iron with one and a half inch 
border, twenty-eight inches long by twenty inches wide, one side of 
the smaller ones must be without border. 

Bread pans with hinged covers, sloping sides, for sandwich 
bread of four pounds measuring at the bottom, eighteen inches long 
and four inches wide, top eighteen and one-quarter inches long and 
five inches wide and four inches high. Instead of having covers, 
these pans can have a small hole in the bottom so when the loaves are 
placed in the pans they may be turned on baking sheets upside down, 
five loaves on one pan. Let them raise in the pan and ascertain the 
proof by inserting a straw through the hole. The pan should be 
filled to two-thirds. 

Pans with sloping sides for graham and raisin bread, containing 
one pound and a half of bread dough, no covers, bottom seven and 
three-quarters of an inch long by four and a half inches wide. Top 
eight and one-quarter inches long by four and a half inches wide. 
Corn muffin pans of heavy tin twelve in a pan, muffin rings. A 
kneading trough made of hard wood with sloping front side, thirty 
inches wide at the top and twenty-two inches wide at the bottom; 
four to five feet long and twenty inches deep provided with a removable 
tight fitting cover, also a dividing board for the middle to hold the 
dough in desired space. 

THE OVEN 

Baking is the final and most important operation in bread 
making and may spoil the best of labor through carelessness. It is 
important to know how to heat an oven and ascertain the right heat 
required for the different kinds of bread and rolls as they demand 
various kinds of temperature. Ovens of every description are in 
use, the best ovens are the furnace brick ovens, they are heated in 
the baking chamber, with wood, coal, gas or oil and hold the heat 
well. Portable ovens are installed in many places. They are built 
on the principle and style of a furnace brick oven, are more light, 
less expensive and can be moved at any time; they are heated in the 
baking chamber. Shelf ovens are portable ovens which take up less 

17 




World Famous Chefj 1 




space and are heated from beneath with any kind of fuel. The con- 
tinuous patent furnace ovens are the best for large bakeries and 
hotels, being more practical as the firing is done under the baking 
chamber and baking can go on during the firing. 

All of the bread and rolls baked in the hearth require ovens 
which hold steam and also must have tightly fitting doors and dampers; 
furthermore a steam tight oven is light. Vienna ovens as they are 
called, are built to hold steam and are built with a sloping hearth, 
so that the baking space is above the door, the steam will be retained 
when the door is opened. The other furnace ovens are supplied 
through steam pipes which should be placed in the back of the oven, 
as the steam coming from the back to the front will glace the bread 
more evenly and the steam will not escape as quickly when opening 
the door as by ovens which have steam pipes placed right in front 
above the door. Steam may also be generated by putting heavy 
sacks immersed in water in one of the back corners of the oven or 
by setting an iron pot with water in the fire place. 

In portable ovens steam can be generated by putting a pan with 
water on the lower shelf. In most ovens the firing requires one 
hour's time, then the dampers and doors are shut and the oven laid 
off for one hour to distribute the heat evenly. After one hour's rest 
the oven is swabbed out. Continuous ovens are not laid off as baking 
can go on while the oven is heated. To ascertain the heat of the oven 
where no thermometer is attached to the oven, the test is made by 
throwing a handful of flour or cornmeal in the oven. When it blackens 
and burns the oven is too hot; if it slowly browns the oven has the 
right heat and baking can begin. Should the oven be too hot, it may 
rest longer and be swabbed out again, if too cold it must be fired 
again. Ovens with thermometers attached can be better regulated 
and once knowing the right degree a uniform hot oven can be had . 
Generally the pyrometer should register 550 degrees Fahrenheit, then 
the oven is shut down and when it registers 450 degrees Fahrenheit, 
it will be right for baking. As thermometers are placed often in 
the wrong places, it is necessary to find out the exact degrees needed 
through several trials. Once this knowledge is gained, it is an easy 
matter to always have the same heat required for the baking. 

18 




TheirBread /Rum Recipe/ 




In some ovens the bottom heat will be too strong; swabbing 
out at different times will remedy this. In certain cases double 
pans must be used to prevent too much bottom color. 

The rule for baking is to have all the bread and rolls which require 
the most heat ready first, and followed up with the goods which 
demand a lesser heat. 

HOW TO MAKE YEAST 

Stock Yeast 
Boil five quarts of water, put five ounces of flour in a jar and 
make it into a firm paste with a part of the boiling water. To the 
remainder of the water add an ounce of hop, boil for ten minutes, 
remove from the fire and run through a fine sieve into the jar and over 
the paste. Set in a cool place until liquid is lukewarm. Dissolve 
the paste with the water and add four ounces of malt; cover and leave 
in a warm temperature for forty-eight hours without disturbing. 
After expiration of this time, strain this liquid in another stone jar. 
The stock yeast is now ready for use. 

YEAST 

Set fifteen quarts of water to boil in a good sized pot, remove it 
at the first boil from the fire. Put two pounds of flour in a tub and 
make with a pint of the boiling water a sufficiently hard paste. To 
the remaining water add three ounces of hops and boil for ten minutes; 
remove from fire and strain at once the boiling liquid through a fine 
sieve over the paste into the tub. Set in a cool place until luke- 
warm. Work the paste well into the water, using both hands; add 
right off one quart of stock yeast mixing all well together. Set the 
tub in a moderate temperature, do not disturb while fermentation 
takes place, which requires from eighteen to twenty hours. Strain 
this yeast through a fine sieve in another tub and set in an ice box or 
a very cool place. To be used as needed for the preparation of ferment. 
This yeast will keep for days if all details prescribed are carefully 
observed. 

FERMENT 

Wash seven quarts of small potatoes very clean; place in an 
enameled cast iron pot, cover with sufficient cold water, put on fire 
and let come to a boil; pour off this water and refresh with clean hot 

19 



water and boil until well done. Throw the potatoes in a large tub 
and add two and one-half pounds of flour, mash well, to reduce to a 
smooth paste. Dilute this paste gradually with twenty-two quarts 
of cold or lukewarm water, observing temperature and season. Add 
five quarts of yeast and mix all well together. Set the tub in a moder- 
ately warm place and cover well with a cloth. Do not disturb until 
fermentation takes place, which means, when risen to the double of 
its height and falls again. Fermentation should take place in from 
seven 1o eight hours. This quantity is sufficient for one barrel of 
flour. 

COMPRESSED YEAST 

Compressed yeast being more uniform and reliable, is preferred 
by most of the bakers and in places where only small quantities of 
bread are made it is more reliable, stronger and quicker than stock 
yeast and ferment, also not as quickly affected by change of weather; 
furthermore it is a saver of time and labor. Compressed yeast must 
be used as fresh as possible. 

In parts of the country where yeast can not be had fresh daily, 
it is advisable to keep the yeast in a stone jar, well covered with 
water; in ice box. Change the water at least every second day, 
pouring it off carefully without disturbing the yeast. When using it 
pour off the water as directed and take out the required amount of 
yeast with a spoon, covering the remainder again with fresh cold 
water. 

Common yeast or bakers ferment mixed with stock yeast is 
still used by a good many bakers, they claiming it makes a moister, 
sweeter and better loaf of bread than compressed yeast. For bakeries 
which must count the profits by making a larger quantity of bread 
of the same amount of flour, this yeast is mostly used and the sponge 
method prevails. 

BREAD MADE OF SPONGE AND STRAIGHT DOUGH 

Bread is made either by setting sponge and making dough after- 
wards or by making a straight dough. Bakers making a large sponge 
are enabled to make various kinds of doughs out of it and also save 
yeast. In setting sponge, dissolve the yeast well in the water and 
mix it with enough flour to make a soft dough. By using more or 
less yeast or colder or warmer water or making a softer or firmer 

20 




TheirBread /Pajtry Recipe,/ 




sponge, in mixing more or less flour into it, the time of getting the 
sponge ready can be regulated. When sponge is ready, mix, dust 
over with flour, cover well and let rise. Sponge should be ready 
in four hours and it is, when bubbles begin to show which burst and 
throw off gas and the sponge flattens and drops in center. The 
sponge being ready, different doughs can be made in taking certain 
quantities of it and in adding the necessary ingredients for the different 
desired doughs as rolls, breads, coffee cakes, etc. 

Sponge can be set cool at night and made into dough in the 
morning or can be set warm and slack with additional yeast to be 
taken after one hours time. Straight dough is made in mixing all 
ingredients at the same time, the use of more yeast is required than 
for sponge dough, according to temperature; by using more or less 
yeast it may be gotten ready in a few hours or to be worked up in the 
morning. Dough should be well mixed and kneaded; after it has 
risen, it should be worked over several times at different intervals. 

Dough made of soft flour require a firmer dough than made of 
stronger flour, because dough slackens after it has been made. Strong- 
flour can be made in a softer dough as it gives very little. The age 
of the dough depends on the strength of the flour and the firmness of 
the dough. A young dough colors more in baking and requires less 
heat than an old dough. Of the dough from which bread and rolls 
are made in the same time, bread should be made up first as it demands 
a younger dough than rolls, or a dough which has not raised too long. 

FRENCH BREAD WITH FERMENT FOCKOS 

Set a medium sponge with four quarts of ferment seventy-five 
degrees Fahrenheit to be ready in three hours. When ready to drop 
add one gallon of water seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit and six ounces 
of salt. Make a slack dough and beat it well, let rest for one hour. 
Divide up in one and a half pound pieces, mould round and put in 
slightly floured boxes; flatten them down to one-third of their thick- 
ness and dust over with flour, cover with another box air tight, let 
rise for about twenty to twenty-five minutes, mould them in long 
loaves. Set the loaves in cloth lined boxes dusted with flour and 
raise the cloth between each loaf to serve as support, so the dough 
in rising cannot flatten out. When set transfer to peel, wash over 

21 




World Famouj 1 Cher/ 1 




with water and make four or five slanting cuts with a very sharp 
thin plated knife. Put into the oven on the hearth. They should 
be baked in fifteen minutes; when baked, wash again with water. 

FRENCH SPLIT LOAVES 

Use a little firmer dough than for fockos. Make them up in the 
form of long Vienna shaped loaves and set them on boards. When 
they are moulded and slightly set, brush the top with lard and press 
each loaf lengthwise in the center with a long thin rolling pin, like 
split rolls. Arrange the loaves split side down in cloth lined boxes, 
raise the cloth between each for support and let rise. Sprinkle 
peel with a little white corn meal, turn split side up on a small board 
and transfer to peel and bake on the hearth without washing, to nice 
brown color. 

MILK DOUGH 

Different breads are made of part milk, others of all milk. When 
using nothing but milk, make a straight dough. The milk must be 
heated to the boiling point and cooled off to temperature required to 
season. When using milk and water, set the sponge 
with the water and add the milk when making the dough. When 
making straight dough, bring the milk to a boil and add the water; 
let cool down to desired temperature about seventy-five degrees 
Fahrenheit. All milk breads take more color while baking and 
therefore demand a lower heat, also less time to rise. 

HOME MADE BREAD 
Make a medium straight dough from one gallon water, half 
milk. Heat the milk to boiling point and add the water, cool down 
to seventy degrees Fahrenheit. Dissolve four ounces yeast in this 
liquid, add three and a half ounces of salt, four ounces of sugar and two 
ounces of butter or lard. Mix all ingredients up well with the water 
and milk and make the dough with a good strong wheat flour. Let 
set, dough should be ready in two hours; when raised to the double 
of its original size, fold it over from all four sides and press down. Let 
rise again for about three-quarters of an hour, fold over again, divide 
into pieces, mould round and put in boxes to set for about twenty 
minutes and make them into loaves, pressing two opposite sides 
together with the palms of the hand. Lay in the moulds smooth 

22 




Their Bread / Paltry Recipe/ 




side up and set to rise until the pan is almost full. Bake and brush 
over with a wash of white of egg and water well beaten together. 
Mould should be, when filled, about half full. From the same dough, 
when made in a larger quantity, you can make Vienna loaves of two 
pounds of dough each, sandwich loaves in single loaves or made up 
in American loaf style. 

For Vienna loaves mould the two pound pieces round, let rise 
twenty minutes and form long loaves from them, manipulating as 
prescribed for pan loaves. These loaves are arranged in cloth lined 
wooden boxes with the smooth side down and the cloth raised between 
each loaf as support. When sufficiently set, transfer to peel, smooth 
side up, with the aid of the board as mentioned in utensils; wash over 
with water when no steam is applied and bake on the hearth to a nice 
brown color. When baked and taken out of the oven, wash with 
white of egg. For sandwich loaves, scale off four pound pieces, 
mould round and put in pans, after having formed the loaves from 
them, either in the bread pans with hinged covers or in the pans 
with the hole in the center of the bottom of the pan; the latter are 
turned up side down on a baking sheet about four to five loaves on 
one pan, as soon as the mold is fitted. Bake in steam. American 
loaves are scaled to three pound pieces, molded as the others, but 
arranged side by side in the baking sheet iron pan. For this purpose 
the sides of the loaves may be slightly greased with melted lard to 
obtain a smooth and even break when baked. Let set to almost 
double of its original size and bake in a medium hot oven, without 
washing. All these pan baked breads, without exception must be 
turned out of the moulds as soon as baked. 



HOME BREAD WITH WATER ONLY 
Make a straight dough at seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit from 
one gallon of water, three ounces of sugar and three ounces of lard or 
butter, with a good strong flour. This dough should be ready raised 
in four hours or it will flatten out and lose its resistance. Must be 
worked over well and rise again for twenty minutes; scale mould 
and form in loaves for pans. Let these loaves set to about two-thirds 
the height of the pan and bake. 




World Famouj 1 Chert 




VIENNA BREAD MADE OF STRAIGHT DOUGH 
Make a very firm dough ot threi quarts of water and one quart 
of milk, about eighty degrees fahrenheit, two ounces of yeast, three 
ounces of salt, six ounces of sugar and six ounces of lard or butter or 
half butter and half lard. This dough should rise and be ready 
in four hours, work it down again by iolding it over from the four 
opposite sides and pressing it down. Cover and let come up again; 
when set, work it over once more; let rise another time and scale in 
two pound pieces, mould round and in twenty to twenty-five minutes 
after form in oblong pointed loaves as prescribed before. Put in 
cloth lined boxes smooth side down, raise cloth between as usual. 
When set put on peel sprinkled over with a little flour, butter or 
white corn meal. By the aid of a thin board, from there transfer 
to peel by sliding it on its smooth side up. Should be baked with 
steam; when no steam can be generated, wash over with water and 
give three slanting cuts, bake on hearth. When baked, wash over 
with a thin white of egg wash. 

When baking in a range the loaves may be put on slightly greased 
baking sheets washed over with a thin egg wash made out of a whole 
egg and milk. 



VIENNA BREAD MADE OF SPONGE 

Make a slack sponge with two ounces of yeast, one gallon of 
water seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit; work it well, sprinkle with flour 
and cover. When the sponge is ripe and has fallen in the center 
add the milk the same temperature as the water, also three ounces 
of salt, four ounces of sugar and four of lard or butter. Work all 
these ingredients well into the dough and make a firm dough with 
good strong flour. Let the dough rise to double of its size and 
working well down again let it come up again and divide in equal 
pieces of one and a half pounds or more. Mould into balls, let sel 
again for twenty minutes and shape long loaves with pointed ends 
out of these balls; put in cloth lined boxes as mentioned in the former 
recipes and bake in steam or on the health. 

24 




TheirBread/Sttry Recipe/ 




PULLMAN BREAD 

For Pullman bread use any good milk dough which is not too 
stiff. It should be passed several times through rollers which are 
fastened to the bench or table with clamps, before moulding into 
loaves. It is used mostly for sandwiches especially in railroad stations 
and dining cars. The pans in which this bread is baked should be 
ten inches long, four and a half inches wide and four inches high 
with a sliding cover. Give three-quarters proof in the pan, close 
the cover and bake in a medium hot oven. Breads baked in covered 
pans have the advantage to retain their moisture longer, have a better 
taste and the crust is very thin. The waste will also be minimized, 
when these loaves are (ait for sandwiches. 

RAISIN BREAD 
Make a rather stiff dough of one gallon sweet milk, boil the milk 
first and cool down to seventy degrees Fahrenheit; add six ounces of 
yeast, four ounces of salt, twelve ounces of sugar, sixteen ounces 
butter and eight eggs. Mix all these ingredients well with the milk, 
and make with a strong flour a straight dough. Cover and let rise 
for two hours. After it has raised double its size, work one and a 
half pounds Sultana raisins and one and a half pounds of currants in 
the dough. Scale into one and a half pound loaves, let rise for twenty 
minutes, form the loaves and put in pans. Pan should be half full. 
Let prove to three-quarters of the height of the pan and bake in 
medium hot oven. 

NEW ENGLAND BREAD NO. ONE 
Make a firm straight dough of one gallon of water and half a 
can condensed milk seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit, two ounces 
of salt and three ounces sugar. When set work it down again; let 
rise for fifteen minutes, scale and work into loaves, bake in moulds in 
good oven. 

NEW ENGLAND BREAD NO. TWO 

Make of twenty ounces corn meal, a mush to begin with. Make 

a straight dough at seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit from two gallons 

water, six ounces yeast, six ounces salt, six ounces sugar, six ounces 

of lard and the corn meal mush. Mix all ingredients thoroughly 

25 



wl th the water before adding the flour. Cover and let rise for four 
hours, work it well after this time has elapsed and let come up again 
for about twenty-five minutes. Mould in loaves, manipulating 
like other breads; let rise to two-thirds of its height of pan and bake 
in a good heat. 

HOME MADE BREAD WITH FERMENT 

Make a straight dough with three quarts ferment, one quart 
of water or milk and five ounces of salt at a temperature of about 
eighty degrees. Work the dough well and pen it close up in the 
trough, let come up and work over, let raise about half. Throw 
the dough on the table, divide, mould round, put in the box and 
after it sets for ten minutes, form in loaves. Bake in a good heat. 

GRAHAM BREAD NO. ONE 
Make a medium straight dough of one gallon of water, five ounces 
of yeast, four ounces of salt, three ounces lard and one pint of molasses. 
Mix these ingredients well; add four pounds of good graham flour 
and the rest of a good strong wheat flour. Let rise about two hours 
and work it down again. Throw on table, mold up as other breads 
in one and a half pound loaves, set in pans and let rise in the moulds 
1o two-thirds of their height, bake in medium hot oven. 

GRAHAM BREAD NO. TWO 
Make a rather soft straight dough of one gallon of water, one 
and a half ounces yeast, three ounces salt, four ounces lard and three- 
quarters of a pint of molasses. Use half graham and half wheat 
flour. Let come up but once, work it down again, let rise for a few 
minutes; scale and mould into pans, set to riss, bake in medium hot 
oven. This dough has to be made cool and must be worked up young. 
This means don't give much proof. 

GLUTEN BREAD 

Gluten bread can be made of water or partly milk and is treated 

like graham bread. For six persons, the sweetening and shortening 

is omitted. Make a straight dough of two quarts of water and two 

quarts of milk, one and a half ounces of yeast, three ounces salt, six 

26 




TheirBread/Rutry Recipe,/ 




ounces lard and half a pint molasses. Use only gluten flour to make 
the dough and let come up only once. Work down and after a short 
interval, proceed moulding in loaves as usual and bake in a medium 
hot oven. 

RYE BREAD 
Make a rather stiff straight dough of seventy degrees Fahrenheit 
from one gallon of water, three ounces of yeast and five ounces of 
salt. Use a fresh well flavored rye flour mixed with the same quantity 
of a second grade wheat flour. Let come up once; work down and 
let set about ten minutes; divide in two pound pieces and mould 
round. When all are formed, shape right off in long, round pointed 
loaves, pressing the seam well together. Place on boards or in boxes 
covered with cloth, smooth sides down, raise cloth for support and 
let come only one-third its size. Turn on with corn meal or rye 
flour dusted peel, wash over with water, give three or four slanting 
cuts across and bake in a hot oven. Wash again with a thin white 
of egg; wash again as soon as taken from the oven. May also be 
baked in well greased pans which is more handy for the housewife. 

GERMAN RYE BREAD 

German rye bread is made of a part of sour rye dough. To 
start this sour dough, take three pounds of yeast raised rye dough. 
Dissolve in one quart of water and mix with enough rye flour to make 
a very slack dough. Let this sponge stand until the next day and 
use it in adding some compressed yeast for the first rye bread dough. 
Keep every day a piece of this dough to make the next day's bread. 
From one gallon of water, one pound of sour dough, one ounce yeast, 
three ounces salt and some caraway seeds, make a very firm dough, 
using two-thirds of rye flour and one-third of wheat flour. Dissolve 
the yeast and sour dough well in the water before adding salt, seed 
and flour. Work it well and let rise about double its size; work over 
again and make up in round or long loaves. Set these loaves on 
thickly dusted boards, *using half cornmeal and flour. Let prove 
only to one-third its original size and bake on hearth in a hot oven. 
These loaves during setting must be washed over with water from 
time to time and before baking make some round holes with a stick 
or give slanting cuts. Do not set the loaves too close together in 

27 



the oven until baked well, then they can be moved close together 
while finishing the baking. 



HALF RYE BREAD 
Set a sponge with two quarts of water, one ounce of yeast and 
wheat flour. When ready, add two quarts of water, three ounces 
of yeast, also some caraway seed and make a medium dough with two 
parts of rye flour and one part of wheat flour. Let set, work down 
and when ready make long loaves, the shape of Vienna bread. Set 
in cloth lined boxes with smooth sides down; raise the cloth between 
each. Let rise to two-thirds its size and bake in hot oven, washing 
and cutting them before baking. When baked, wash over again 
either with water or a thin corn starch paste or white of egg mixed 
and well beaten with water. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD 
Two pounds of corn meal, two pounds of graham flour, two 
pounds rye flour, two pounds of wheat flour, one quart boiling water, 
one quart molasses, two ounces of salt, three ounces yeast. Scald 
the cornmeal first, by pouring the boiling water on and stirring it, 
add the molasses and salt. When only lukewarm, add the yeast, 
then mix in the graham, rye and wheat flour. The dough should be 
like graham dough, when too stiff, soften with milk. After a little 
kneading on the table, grease the pan in which it was mixed, place 
the dough in it, cover weil with a cloth and let rise for about six hours 
in moderate temperatured place. When ready throw on table, 
knead again a little and make in five loaves. Place in high round 
moulds, made especially for brown bread, let rise tor half an hour, 
put the tight fitting covers on and steam in a steam chest about 
four hours and bake for twenty minutes. If no steamer can be used, 
the bread can be baked in a cool oven, registering about 250 degrees 
Fahrenheit, proceed as follows: Set the pails into a pan with high 
borders containing from two to three inches of water, push into oven 
carefully and bake for five hours. 

28 



BOSTON BROAD BREAD WITH SODA OR BAKING POWDER 
One pound graham flour, one pound of rye flour, two pounds of 
corn meal, one pound wheat flour, one quart molasses, three pints 
of milk, two ounces salt, one ounce of baking soda, or instead of soda, 
three ounces of baking powder. Mix all the flours together, dissolve 
the soda in the milk, add the salt and molasses and make a soft dough, 
add more milk if required. Fill the Boston brown bread pails, three- 
quarters full. Steam for three hours and bake fifteen minutes. 
Covers of pails must be tight fitting. When using baking powder, 
mix the powder well with the flours. 



BOSTON BROWN BREAD WITH FERMENT 

Put into a bowl or pan, two and three-quarter pounds of yellow 
corn meal, two pounds of white corn meal, one pound and three- 
quarters of rye flour, one pound of Boston meal, one ounce of salt. 
Dilute these flours with one quart molasses., one quart ferment and 
two quarts of water. Add the salt and make a very slack paste, 
mixing all well together. Cover and leave to rise in a moderate 
temperature for four hours. Add after this interval, three-quarters 
of an ounce of soda dissolved in a glassful of water and twelve 1 ounces 
of bread crumbs. Mix all well together. Fill this paste in buttered 
brown bread pails about two-thirds full, let stand for one hour. Cover 
with lid and bake in a very slow oven six hours. Put the moulds 
in high rimmed pans containing two inches of water. 



PULLED BREAD PALACE 

Of freshly baked milk bread either baked in pans with sliding 
cover or in the American loaf style; take off the crusts and pull either 
with the aid of two forks or breaking the loaf in three parts and using 
your hand; long strips, they may have any shape, toast on baking 
sheets in a medium oven to a nice brown. Bread must be turned 
once or twice to have a uniform color on all sides. W T hen oven is 
too hot, the inside will not be crisp. Served with almost every meal 
on the same plate as rolls. Very healthy, especially for invalids. 

29 




World Famouj 1 Cher/ 1 



BOSTON CREAM TOAST 
While toasting the bread, bring a sufficient quantity of milk 
to a boil and thicken with cornstarch, dissolve in a dish and cover 
with creamy milk preparation. 

FRENCH TOAST (One Portion) 
Three slices bread, trim off the crusts, cut in triangle shape 
and saturate with a preparation of one beaten egg, three teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar and a little milk or if wanted richer, with cream instead 
of milk. Fry in a shallow pan in clarified butter to a golden brown. 
As soon as done dust sugar over them and serve very hot. 

MELBA TOAST 

Cut bread slices of which the crust is trimmed in diamond shape 
and toast instead of on the griddle, on a baking pan in the oven, to a 
nice brown color on both sides. When done sift sugar over them 
and serve at once. 

DIFFERENT TOASTS GARNISHED 

TOASTS, GARNISHED WITH CHICKEN 

Bacon, chopped chicken, lettuce, caviar, foie-gras, anchovies, 
sardines, roast beef and horseradish, hot roast beef with gravy, broiled 
sardines, chicken and green peppers. 

Toast slices of bread on both sides, and let cool, butter with 
mustard or anchovy butter on the buttered side, lay desired garnishing 
and serve. 

TOAST WITH OLIVE OIL AND CHEESE 
Dip some toast in olive oil and arrange them on a dish; strew 
over some grated parmesan cheese, pepper and lemon juice. Put 
them for a few minutes in the oven to give just enough time for the 
cheese to melt and serve as soon as they leave the oven. 

SARDINE TOAST WITH OLIVE OIL 
Instead of the cheese, pound a few anchovies with an equal 
quantity of butter and a little parsley. Cover the toast with this 
butter. Of a few sardines wipe off the skins with a cloth, arrange on 
top of the toast, put in the oven for a few minutes and serve hot. 

30 



FANCY SANDWICHES FOR AFTERNOON TEAS 

The bread for sandwiches, should be cut as thin as possible from 
loaves baked in covered pans. Bread one day old or even a little 
older will answer the purpose better, because it does not crumb in the 
cutting as fresh bread does. When sandwiches are ready and cannot 
be served right away, they must be folded in slightly wetted napkins 
to keep fresh. The butters used for sandwiches are generally, mustard, 
butter, anchovy butter and foie-gras butter. 

Mustard butter is butter mixed well with salt, red pepper and 
mustard. For anchovy butter, add a little essence of anchovy to 
it; for foie-gras butter, take same quantity of butter as foie-gras 
pound them well together and press through a sieve. 

Anchovy butter may also be made of one ounce of anchovies. 
Wipe the skins off well with a cloth to remove all the scales, pound 
little cayenne pepper and rub through a sieve. 

When meats and poultry are used, spread mustard butter on 
the bread. For game, use foie-gras butter, and anchovy butter for 
fish. There is no regular rule as to the exact use of these butters, 
and each one can follow their own taste and fancy. 

BARLOW SANDWICHES 
Butter the bread slices with mustard butter. Some pickled 
cucumbers, and on these some finely shredded and seasoned lettuce 
hearts; on top of this, slices of chicken, the same size as bread, cut 
very thin; then some more lettuce hearts and finely chopped hard 
boiled eggs over all, cover with another bread slice. Cut any shape 
desired and serve on dishes covered with folded napkins. 

SCRAPED CHICKEN SANDWICH 
Scrape white chicken meat very fine with the aid of a fork, season, 
salt and pepper, spread over the bread, English mustard butter, 
cover with another slice of buttered bread, trim -off the crust and 
cut in diamond shape. 

SLICED CHICKEN AND LETTUCE 
Slice the white chicken meat very thin, arrange nicely on 
mustard butter covered bread slices. On top of meat place the 

31 



P World Famouj 1 C hefj^J 




leaves of the heart of lettuce salad, cover with well flavored mayonnaise 
and cover with another slice of bread; trim and cut in triangle or 
diamond shapes. 

SHREDDED CHICKEN 

Cut the white chicken meat, julienne style, which means in 
very fine strips the thickness of one-eighth of an inch and in lengths 
half to three-quarters of an inch. Mix with a mustard mayonnaise 
just enough to bind the meat; spread on bread slices, not buttered 
and roll up like a jelly roll. Tie with very narrow blue and red fancy 
ribbon. 

CHICKEN SALAD PALACE 

("ul the chicken meat and the celery in very small dice; mix with 
mayonnaise and spread on buttered bread. Cut in small squares. 

TURKEY AND TONGUE 
Cut the white meat of turkey very thin, also the tongue. Arrange 
slices of both on mustard buttered slices of bread. Cover and trim; 
cut in square or diamond shape. 

TURKEY 

Cut turkey meat very thin; cover mustard buttered bread slices 
with it and cut in squares or triangle shape. Tongue and ham sand- 
wiches are prepared in the same manner. 

TURKEY, HAM AND TONGUE 

These sandwiches can also be made of the meats and butter 
passed through the machine to make a smooth paste from them. 
Spread the different meat pastes on bread slices and cover. Cut in 
any shape desired when trimmed off. 

SALAMI 

Must be cut very thin and arranged on mustard buttered bread 
slices. 

PRESSED BEEF 

Cut the beef very thin and proceed as for other sandwiches as 
chicken, etc. 

32 



TOMATO 

Slice the tomatoes very fine, put on mustard buttered bread 
slices. 

SWISS CHEESE 

Cut Swiss cheese very thin and finish as the preceding. 

WATER CRESS 
Cut the leaves from the stems and put on the buttered bread 
slices. 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE 
Mix the cheese with finely chopped chives and season with 
paprika. 

LETTUCE 
Chop the hearts of lettuce fine and mix with mayonnaise: proceed 
as before mentioned. 

EGG 
Spread over the bread mayonnaise and cut hard boiled eggs in 
slices and sprinkle finely chopped fine herbs over the eggs. Fine 
herbs consist of parsley, chervil, tarragon and chives. 

PIMENTOES 

Mustard buttered bread slices with fine sliced pimentoes on 
top. 

ANCHOVIES 

Spread mustard butter over the bread and arrange fillets of 
anchovies on top. Cut in squares or triangles. 

ANCHOVY PASTE 

Spread this paste over the mustard buttered bread. Anchovy 
as well as regalia-fish pastes are sold in all first class groceries. 

REGALIA FISH PASTE 
When using this paste add a little Worcestershire sauce for 
seasoning. Same proceeding as anchovy. 

PATE DE-FOIE-GRAS 
Pound the same quantity of butter as foie-gras well together; 
press through a sieve and spread over the bread. 

33 



NUTS AND OLIVES 
Hack the nuts very fine and mix with mayonnaise. All kinds 
of nuts may be used. Olives hacked fine and bound with mayonnaise. 

CAVIAR 

Spread bread over with mustard butter and a layer of Caviar 
on top. Cut desired shape, serve with these sandwiches on nice 
leaves of lettuce, arrange nicely on separate dish, one leaf with the 
finely chopped yellow of the eggs, one leaf with very finely cut onions 
and one leaf with finely cut up chives. Serve also lemons or limes, 
cut either in half or quarter pieces. 

GAME SANDWICHES 

Spread the bread over with foie-gras butter. Lay some thinly 
sliced or chopped up game on top, cover with another slice of foie- 
gras buttered bread, press down, trim nicely and cut in desired shapes. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS 

Make a rather stiff dough from one gallon lukewarm milk, six 
ounces of yeast, four ounces of salt, three-quarters of a pound ot 
sugar, eight eggs and one pound of butter with a strong wheat flour. 
Before adding the flour, all of the ingredients must be exceedingly 
well mixed with the milk. Dust a little flour over the dough, cover 
well and leave to rise; it should be ready in two hours and double 
its volume. When at this stage fold the dough over from the four 
sides and press it down. Let come up for about twenty-five 
minutes. Scale off in three and a half pound pieces, roll out in long 
round sticks, divide these in thirty-six equal parts; one weighing 
about one and a half ounces. Mould in round balls, dust flour over 
them and let set ten minutes and form into different shaped rolls 
as, round, oblong with pointed ends with four incisions forming a 
cross; pocket book shape, split, crescents. Some of these may be 
bestrewn with poppy seeds. 

All round, as soon as the balls are moulded in a more symmetrical 
round form, place on greased baking sheets with a little space between 
each other, to give enough room to rise. When they are two-thirds 
their original size, wash them with a thin egg wash and bake. 

34 




TheirBread /Rutry Recipe,/ 




Oblong, with pointed ends; roll the balls oblong and on both 
ends very thin. 

Round with cross on top; the same proceeding as for round; cut 
when raised and washed over. Cut four deep incisions with the 
scissors so as to form a cross. 

Pocket book, lay two rolls alongside of each other with enough 
room between so as they do not touch each other. With a very thin 
rolling, press them down in the center and roll a little depression 
in center, butter the both thicker sides with melted butter and fold 
them over like a book, press them down a little on the back and set 
on baking sheets with enough space so that they do not touch each 
other. Before baking wash with a thin egg wash. 

Split: place two balls as told before along side of each other; 
grease in the center with melted lard or butter and press lengthwise 
across the center; let both sides come together and place on baking 
sheets like the rest. 

Crescents: take two of the balls and place side by side a little 
distance apart and with a thin rolling, about the thickness of a broom 
handle, roll out to an oval size and an eighth of an inch thick, leaving 
the two farthest sides a little thicker, than the forward ones. Then 
with the left hand hold the front part of the farthest end by rolling 
it over on itself to bring it to the forward end, to give it the shape 
of a shuttle six inches long, one inch thick in the center and one- 
fourth of an inch on both ends. When finished, lay them on slightly 
greased baking sheets giving them the shape of a crescent. Let rise 
and brush over with an egg wash made of beaten egg and milk. Bake 
in a slow oven for about fifteen minutes. Different of these rolls 
as the round split and crescent shapes can be washed and dipped in 
poppyseed as soon as they are made up and before putting them on the 
baking sheets. Out of the same dough other shapes may also be formed. 

DOUGH FOR SMALL ROLLS AND FINGER ROLLS 
Make a small sponge of half an ounce of yeast and one-quarter 
of a pound of flour with a little warm water. Place in a vessel and 
let rise in a temperate place to the double of its size. Weigh three- 
quarters of a pound of flour on the table, make a hollow in the center, 
in this put a pinch of salt, half an ounce of sugar and a little tepid 

35 





World Famous Chert 



milk, also two eggs. Mix the flour gradually into these ingredients 
and add the rest of the lukewarm water which should measure three- 
quarters of a gill. When all are mixed knead the paste well, beating 
it on the table to incorporate as much air as possible. As soon as the 
paste has plenty of body, knead one ounce of butter well into it, then 
add another ounce of butter and knead the paste well for a few minutes 
longer. At last mix the sponge lightly into the dough, put back into 
the bowl, cover and leave to rise again in a moderately warm place. 
When the dough is raised, divide into one-pound pieces, roll them 
out into long round strips, half an inch in diameter. Divide these 
rolls into twenty equal sized pieces, mold in round balls with the 
palm of the hand. Let these balls set a little and shape in small 
rolls with pointed ends two and three-quarters of an inch long. 
Arrange them not too closely on a slightly greased baking sheet and 
let rise. When sufficiently raised, brush them over twice with egg 
wash, and bake in a warm oven. 

FINGER ROLLS 
Sift two pounds of flour on the table; take half a pound of this 
flour, make a hollow in the center and in this put one ounce and a 
half of yeast; dissolve with a gill and a half of lukewarm water and 
make a soft sponge with the flour. Mold a round ball from it, cut a 
cross on the top and place in casserole containing lukewarm water; 
cover and let rise about fifteen minutes to double its size. Form a 
circle with the rest of the flour and put in the center of it two ounces 
of sugar, half an ounce of salt, two eggs and two and a half gills of 
barely lukewarm water. Mix ingredients well together and make 
a consistent dough with the flour. Knead it well a few minutes on 
the table until it acquires body, incorporate two ounces of butter 
and knead until smooth. When the sponge is ready mix it well 
with the dough, put it in a bowl, cover and let rise in a moderate 
temperature for one hour. When raised to double its size, press 
down again, and divide into half pound pieces; divide these into twelve 
equal sized parts, mold them round and let rise about fifteen minutes. 
Roll out in four and a half inch long round sticks, arrange them on 
greased baking pans, not too near together, about a quarter of an 
inch apart, put to rise to one-third the original size, brush over with 
a light egg wash and bake in a hot oven. 

36 




T hejrBread /Paltry Recipe/ 




MILK ROLLS 
Make a straight firm dough from one gallon of lukewarm water, 
milk, four ounces of yeast, three ounces of salt and four ounces of 
sugar, let set to double its size; knead down and throw on table. 
Scale off in three and a half pound pieces, divide these in thirty-six 
equal parts, roll up in balls, dust over with flour and let come on for 
a few minutes. Make split rolls of half the balls as prescribed for 
sweet rolls, set on baking sheets, let rise and bake, washing them over 
with water before and after baking. They may also be washed with 
a very thin beaten egg wash. Knead half of the balls, roll out into 
long round sticks about four and a half inches long. Arrange on 
baking sheets and brush over before putting them in the oven, with 
egg wash. Bake in a medium hot oven. 

WATER ROLLS (Sponge Method) 
Make a slack sponge of three quarts lukewarm water and three 
ounces of yeast; let this sponge ripen; it should be ready in four hours. 
When it flattens and falls in center, showing bubbles which burst 
and throw off gas, add three quarts of water the same temperature 
as before, two ounces sugar and six ounces salt. Mix these well 
with the sponge and make a medium stiff dough with a good wheat 
flour. Let rise to double its size. Throw it out on the table and 
fold over from all sides, pressing it down; divide in two ounce pieces, 
mould them round and arrange on a slightly flour dusted board. 
When they have set ten minutes, grease in the center with a little 
melted lard and press one by one well lengthwise in the middle with 
a very thin rolling pin. Replace on board, split side downwards. 
When set sufficiently, put them on the peel in rows and arrange so 
as not to touch each other while baking. W T ash over and put on 
hearth. Bake in steam in hot oven. 

VIENNA ROLLS (Sponge) 
Set a stiff sponge of four quarts lukewarm water, two ounces 
yeast in summer and three ounces yeast in winter, with a strong 
wheat flour, dust over with flour and let set. When the sponge has 
fallen for the first time in the center, add two quarts of lukewarm 
milk, half a pound of sugar, three and a half ounces of salt, six ounces 

37 




World Famous Chert 




of lard and six ounces of butter; instead of butter, specially prepared 
tasteless cotton seed oil may be used, about one dipper containing 
two quarts. Incorporate all ingredients well into the sponge and 
make a rather stiff dough, working it in small pieces several times 
over, which lay on top of each other. Let set to double its volume; 
throw the dough on the bench and fold over; let come up again and 
press down another time. Divide in one and a half ounce pieces; 
mould round and arrange in flour dusted boxes, dusting them over 
with flour. After fifteen minutes, you can make up different kinds 
of rolls as kaisersemmel, weckerl, crescents, salt sticks, twists and 
other shapes. 

Kaisersemmels are folded four times; perfect rolls of this kind 
can only be made by long practice. The manipulation is as follows: 
Flatten a previously moulded round piece of dough with your right 
hand; take hold of one end of the dough with your left hand, holding 
the thumb on top, supporting the bottom with the other fingers. 
Fold a small part of dough over the thumb as to form a hole and 
press it with the side of the left hand, down in the center to stick. 
Fold over another part also pressing it next to the first in center; 
repeat this four times. The last time stretch the remaining outer 
end to a point and press well into the hole, removing the thumb, 
which must be kept in the same position during the entire operation. 
Place on flour dusted boards or cloth lined boxes, some distance 
apart with folded side down; let rise to two-thirds its size, turn on 
peel folded side up. Cover with water and bake in medium hot 
oven in steam on the hearth. 

Weckerl, the same proceeding as mentioned for water rolls, 
split side down while setting and split side up when baking. 

Crescents are treated the same way as told in recipe for break- 
fast rolls. They are placed in boxes set and baked on the hearth. 
Poppy seed may be used and this seed must be put on before setting 
to proof, washing the crescents over and dipping them in the seed. 
The side with the seed is turned upwards. 

Salt sticks are rolled like crescents in shape of a shuttle. They 
are washed and dipped in a mixture of salt and caraway seed. Arrange 
on boards, salt covered side upwards; when set, bake like the others 
in steam. 

38 




TheirBread /Pajtry Recipe/ 




Twists: divide the round moulded pieces into three equal parts 
each, roll them out long, with pointed ends all the same length. Lay 
three of these long pointed rolls, side by side and braid them, beginning 
in the middle and turning them over on the other side and finish 
braiding. Both pointed ends must be well closed by pressing them 
together. Use poppy seed and clip them like salt sticks. 

All of these different kinds of rolls are baked on the hearth in a 
medium hot oven and in steam. They must be so arranged all ready 
on the peel, that they do not touch each other while baking. 



GERMAN ROLLS 
From one gallon of milk, eight ounces of yeast and two and a 
half ounces of salt, make a slack straight dough with good strong 
flour. Dust over with flour, cover and put in a temperate place to 
set for half an hour. Throw it then on the table, dust well with the 
flour and work it in small portions, not over one pound; replace in 
the same manner. Divide them in two ounce pieces and mould in 
long oval shape. Arrange in cloth lined boxes to set; transfer to 
peel, make a deep cut across the roll and bake in a medium oven on the 
hearth and in steam. If steam is not available, wash over with 
water before baking and again with a thin cornstarch when they 
come out of the oven. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 
Make a rather stiff dough from one gallon of milk, four ounces 
of yeast, six ounces of sugar, two ounces of salt, twelve ounces of 
butter and a good strong wheat flour; set to raise and when the dough 
is ready divide in one and a half ounce pieces and mould them round. 
When proved a little, press them down in center and roll out about 
three-quarters of an inch in the center. Brush both thick sides 
over with a little melted lard and fold them together; press the thin 
outer back part down with the side of the hand. Arrange them on 
a greased baking sheet close enough to touch each other or if desired, 
farther apart to make single rolls. Give only one-third proof and 
wash before baking. If proofed in steam chest, they need no washing 
but should be brushed over with butter when baked. 

39 



SANDWICH ROLLS 

Make a straight dough from one gallon water, two ounces of 
yeast, one pound lard, two ounces salt, ten ounces sugar, and good 
wheat flour. Let raise and work down again. Divide in two ounce 
pieces. Mould them round and arrange on greased pans, so they do 
not touch each other. Let set double its size and bake in a hot oven; 
wash before baking. Instead of round they may be made up in 
oblong shape. 

GRAHAM ROLLS 

Make in a bowl a medium straight dough of four pounds of 
good graham flour, the rest strong wheat flour and one gallon of 
water; one pint molasses, four ounces salt, five ounces of yeast and 
three ounces of lard. Set to raise, when raised double its volume, 
fold over and press down. Throw the dough out on the table and 
divide in one and a half ounce pieces; mould them either round or 
oval shape, set on pans, give medium proof, and bake in a good heat. 
After baking, brush over with an egg wash of whites of eggs and 
water. 

GRAHAM GEMS 

Make a slack dough as follows: Sift one pound of wheat flour 
and three ounces of baking powder together. Put this flour in a bowl 
and add three pounds of unsifted graham flour; mix both well together 
and make a hollow in centex. Place in this hollow, three ounces of 
molasses, two ounces melted lard and one ounce of salt. Add milk 
or water to make a soft mixture and rub smooth; fill in greased muffin 
pans and bake in a hot oven. 

ROLLS MADE OF RYE 

Take a part of any of the given rye bread doughs, divide in one 
and a half ounce pieces, mould them in oblong pointed ovals, set 
on flour dusted boards; let raise about one-third. Transfer to peel 
which must be dusted with corn meal or flour and bake in a hot oven 
on the hearth. Wash over with water before baking and with a 
thin cornstarch wash, when they are taken out of the oven. 

BUNS 
Make a straight stiff dough of three quarts of water, half milk, 

40 



at a temperature of eighty-five degrees Fahrenheit, four ounces of 
salt and twelve ounces of butter. Cover and let set in a warm place 
to double its size. When ready fold over and press down. Let 
come up again and fold over another time. Scale off a part of this 
dough to one pound pieces; divide these in eight equal parts; mould 
them round and arrange on greased baking sheets, leaving enough 
distance between them so as not to touch each other when baking. 
Let rise well and bake in a medium hot oven. After baking wash 
over with a thin syrup. 

FANCY BUNS 

SNAILS AND TWISTS 
From the remaining dough, roll out a square flat piece one-eighth 
of an inch in thickness, brush the surface over with melted butter. 
Bestrew this with a mixture of granulated sugar and ground cinnamon, 
also Sultana raisins and currants. Fold the square from one side 
in the exact center; fold the other half on top of the other so as to 
form three succeeding layers. The dough will have now a long square 
shape. Turn it on the table's edge and roll a little thinner. Cut 
into strips about eight inches in length and half an inch wide. Roll 
these strips in the form of a jelly roll so that the three layers appear 
on the top of the roll, press the end piece under it and fasten well. 
Set on greased baking sheets so as not to touch each other; let set 
well and bake in a medium hot oven. Brush over with syrup when 
baked. When these buns have been properly rolled and placed 
on the pans they will raise higher in the middle than on the sides. 
Use only half of the strips for snails. 

TWISTS 
From the other half of the strips make twists in taking hold of 
both ends and fold as to form two equal parts side by side. Twist 
them over one another about four inches in length. Set on pans 
like the others and bake and finish in prescribed manner. 

HOT CROSS BUNS 

The same dough as for the other buns can be used. In four 
pound pieces of dough, work one pound of currants and Sultana 

41 




World Famous Chert 




raisins, mixed if desired; about four ounces of finely cut orange peel 
may also be worked into it. Some people prefer only to use currants. 
Let set as soon as the raisins are well worked in then divide in two 
ounce pieces, mould round, arrange on pans and cut when half set, 
a cross on top with a sharp knife or make this with a sharp tin formed 
in cross shape, pressing it through the center of the bun. 

SALLY LUN 
Scale off the same bun dough eight ounce pieces; mould them 
round and place in greased rings, which were previously put on baking 
sheets. The rings should be four and a half inches in diameter and 
four inches high. As soon as the rings are all filled make a hole in 
the center of each with the aid of a stick or with the finger. Let 
set to almost the height of the ring and bake in medium oven. When 
done wash over with syrup. 

RAISIN LOAF 
Weigh off the same bun dough, pieces of one pound, work in 
each of them a half pound of Sultana raisins. Mould round or in 
oblong oval shape, let set to double its volume; bake and finish exactly 
like preceding ones. 

DRESDEN STOLLEN OR CHRISTMAS STOLLEN 

Of ten pounds of a good strong wheat flour, half a pound of yeast, 
one pound and four ounces of sugar, two ounces of salt, five eggs 
and ten egg yolks, the grated rind of two lemons, one ounce of ground 
mace, three pounds of butter, five pounds raisins, one pound blanched 
almonds and one pound finely cut half citron and half orange peel, 
make a very stiff dough as follows: Dissolve the yeast in some 
hike warm milk about three quarts to one gallon, the amount of milk 
to be used depends entirely on the strength of the flour; add the sugar, 
salt, eggs whole and yolks, lemon rind and mace and draw in the 
flour. Should the paste be not stiff enough you may add some more 
flour, but it is advisable to use rather a little less milk, so if necessary 
more milk can be added; work this dough over several times in small 
pieces, not more than one pound, putting one on top of each other 
and smoothing it down. When ready put to rise for about two 

42 




TheirBpead /Pa/try Recipe/ 




hours, mix in the butter first, working it well into the dough, then 
the almonds, peel, and add raisins. Let stand tor one hour, throw 
out of the bowl and divide in the desired weight as two, three or four 
pounds; form long ovals of them, press down in center lengthwise 
with a very thin rolling pin, rolling it out flat about one inch and a 
half in the pressed down center; brush the thick outer sides over with 
butter and fold like a pocket book. Set to rise for half an hour 
in a warm place; wash over with a thin egg wash and bake in a medium 
warm oven. When baked, ice with a thick water icing. They can 
be kept for a length of time as they improve with age. In Europe, 
this Stollen is made some time before Christmas and served only 
on this day, hence the name Christmas Stollen. 

STANDARD DOUGH FOR DIFFERENT COFFEE CAKES 

Make rather a stiff dough from one pound of flour, two ounces 
of yeast, a pinch of salt, one ounce and a half of sugar, a pinch of 
ground mace, grated lemon rind, two eggs and lukewarm milk. Set 
to prove; when double its volume, work two ounces of butter into it, 
beating the dough well to admit plenty of air. When it ceases to 
adhere to the hand, it is ready for use. According to the amount of 
goods to be made, this dough can be increased to the quantity needed. 

SMALL CAKES FOR COFFEE OR TEA PARTIES 

Take one pound of the ready dough and work another two ounces 
of butter well into it. Let rise and scale off in half pound pieces; 
divide these pieces again in twelve equal parts; mould them round and 
let rise a while. Shape different formed small rolls of these pieces, 
bestrew them with either finely hacked blanched almonds, coarse 
granulated sugar or both almonds and sugar together, or cocoanut. 
The forms may be oval, round, very long and thin like finger rolls, 
ovals with pointed ends, "S" shape and others. When they are 
moulded, set on greased pans and let rise; wash them over with an 
egg wash and bestrew with the sugar or almonds, etc. Some may 
be only washed and when baked, can be iced with water icing while 
they are hot. Must rise double its size and be baked in a warm 
oven. 



43 




World Famous Chefj 1 




SNAILS 

One pound of the standard dough; roll out to a very thin square 
about one-eighth of an inch in thickness; then roll out three ounces 
of puff paste, half the size of the square and place this on top of the 
puff paste. Flatten out two ounces of cold butter as thin as possible. 
Now fold the other half of the dough sheet over the other to cover 
all and to form a double sheet. This sheet is rolled out like puff 
paste, three times, give about ten minutes rest between each rolling, 
keeping the paste in a cold place. When finished, roll this dough 
out in a long square piece, length to be double the width. Brush 
this square over with melted butter; bestrew with sugar, mixed with 
cinnamon and some currants. Roll up like a jelly roll and fasten 
the outer edge securely and wash over with egg wash. See that the 
roll is of equal thickness all over. Cut into four equal parts andplace 
on greased baking sheet so as not to touch each other and press down 
a little with the flat of the hand. The upper side must show the 
rolling of the snail. Let rise well and bake in medium oven. Ice 
while hot. 

NUT BUND CAKE 

Roll out one pound of standard dough to a small square, put 
four ounces of butter, flatten out thin, on one side of the square, 
fold the other side over the butter and give three rollings like puff 
paste in ten minute intervals. Let rest for a while after the last 
rolling. Roll out in a square, must be the size of the mould when 
fastened in a circle as the mould used must be a Guggelhupf form. 
Wash the square over with a little egg wash on the outer edge and 
spread a mixture of two ounces roasted nuts ground fine, three ounces 
of cake crumbs, sifted through a small sieve and some milk to make 
a soft paste over it. Roll up like jelly roll, fasten the one end of 
the roll well in the other and place in a we 1 buttered and with finely 
shaved almond bestrewn mold. Set in a warm place to rise, let 
come up to two-thirds height of mould and bake in a medium warm 
oven. When baked, turn out of mould on a cake grate and before 
serving, dust well over with the finest powdered sugar. 

PLAIN BUND GUGGELHUPF 

Make a soft sponge with six ounces of flour and two ounces of 

44 




Their Bread/ Paltry Recipe/ 




yeast and set in a warm place to rise. During the time the sponge 
raises, heat in a bowl, using an egg whisk, five ounces of butter 
warmed up a little and one and a half ounces of sugar and seven egg 
yolks to a creamy mass; add a little salt, grated lemon rind, six ounces 
Sultana raisins, currants and finely cut orange peel. Mix and in- 
corporate well with a wooden paddle. Mix six ounces of flour and 
the ready raised sponge into this preparation and at last, the seven 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Fill in a well buttered 
mould with tube in middle. Let rise and bake in medium oven. 
When baked and cold, ice with vanilla icing and strew some finely 
shaved browned almonds over the icing. 

VANILLA COFFEE CAKE 

Work in one pound of standard dough, one whole egg and two 
ounces of butter; when raised for about twenty minutes, roll out in 
thin sheet about a quarter of an inch thick; place on a greased baking 
sheet, taking care that the thickness is uniform all over. Prick with 
a fork in different places to prevent puffing up as the superfluous 
air on the bottom will escape. Let prove about two-thirds, wash 
over with egg wash and cover with granulated sugar mixed with a 
little vanilla sugar. Also cut from four ounces of sweet butter very 
small dices and place on top of the sugar in regular distances apart. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

STREUSSELKUCHEN 

Use the same dough as for vanilla coffee cake and roll out the 
same way, but before putting this cake to rise, wash over with egg 
wash and cover with the following mixture of Streussel: One pound 
of cake flour, half a pound of sugar, coffee sugar may be used, three 
of ground cinnamon. Rub all these ingredients well together and 
press through a coarse sieve, to form small balls. Should the mixture 
not hold well together and press through a coarse sieve, to form small 
balls a little more melted butter or milk may be added. 

Another Streussel is made and is richer, consisting of four ounces 
of butter, three ounces of dry powdered almonds, four ounces of 
powdered sugar, half an ounce of ground cinnamon, lemon rind and 
twelve ounces of flour. Work the same way as preceding recipes. 
When the cake has raised, having been placed in a warm place, bake 
in a quick oven. When cold, dust over with fine powdered sugar. 

45 




World Famous Cher/ 1 



GERMAN ROLLCOUCK 

To one pound of .standard dough, add six ounces of butter, work 
well in the dough, rather beating it in; set to rise. After having 
been set to rise, roll out and fill the same way as for snails; cut in 
thirty-two equal parts and set in well greased pound cake pans. These 
pans must have the same diameter on bottom as on top, straight 
a round. Place so in the pans as to form circles in the pan with 
the side showing the rollings upward. Let rise and bake in medium 
hot oven. When baked take from mould and ice with water icing 
while hot. As the rolls are set along side of each other, the cake 
when serving is not cut, but broken off, as the snails will be detached 
easily from each other. 

DOUGH FOR FRUIT TARTS 

Make a medium stiff dough from one pound of flour, two whole 
and three yolks of eggs; two ounces of yeast, a pinch of salt and one 
and a half ounces of sugar. Let rise to double its size, then work 
three ounces of butter well into the dough and let come up again. 

Roll this dough in round flats, put on greased baking pans, (in 
Europe special made round single pans provided with onty strong 
wire rim are in use), wash the edge with egg wash and paste well 
around evenly rolled quarter inch thick strip of dough. Put finely 
sifted cake crumbs on top of these bottoms and also a little sugar. 
Fill these rounds with any desired cleaned fresh fruit; put more sugar 
on top, adding the flavors as cinnamon, mace, etc., wl ich are best 
suited for the selected fruit. Brush over the rim well with egg wash 
and place larger flats, which must be first folded in four and marked 
in the center with a few cuts on top, cutting them nicely round and 
pressing them on the washed border. The protruding dough must 
be pushed and fastened under the bottoms. Let rise and bake in a 
medium oven, must be brushed over with egg wash before baking. 
To cut the bottoms nice and round use a cake ring; place on top of 
the flat piece and cut around outside the ring with a very sharp knife. 

' GREEK BREAD (Pam'a'la'Grecque) 
Make a rather slack dough of four pounds of flour, three ounces 
of yeast, two ounces of sugar, half an ounce of salt, half an ounce 

46 



l 6 



SBREAD/RUTRY ftECIPlFTffe 



of ground cinnamon and lukewarm milk. Cover and let rise to 
double its size. When ready add one pound of butter and one pound 
of lard. Beat both well in the paste and let come up again. Scale 
off in three ounce pieces; roll out, putting them in granulated sugar 
in round strips, the length of the width of a baking sheet. Place 
on greased pans about one-quarter inch apart and let rise to double 
its size; bake in cool oven to a nice crisp. When baked cut in three 
inch pieces; cut them while warm. 



ROLLCOUCKS AND CRAMICK 

Make a rather stiff dough from one pound and a half of flour, six 
eggs and sufficient warm milk, work it well and smooth. Add then 
three ounces of yeast dissolved in a little milk or water, incorporate 
well in the dough, cover and let rise in a warm place. When well 
risen, work into it six ounces of butter in which a pinch of salt and 
two ounces of sugar were mixed. Beat the dough well; cover again 
and let come up another time. Scale off a few half pound pieces and 
form into oblong ovals. You may add a few Sultana raisins in each 
piece before moulding into shape. Place on greased baking sheets, 
let rise double its size and before baking, wash over with egg wash 
and cut with sharp pair of scissors, dipped in hot water, all around 
about half an inch above the bottom. Care must be taken so as to 
cut an even and straight incision. In baking this cake will show a 
nice whitish border all around. Ice with water icing while hot. 
These cakes are called Cramick. 



ROLLCOUCK 

Of the remaining dough roll out a long strip an eighth of an inch 
thick and nine inches wide. Brush over with water or egg wash 
and cover with a mixture of sugar and cinnamon, also strew over with 
some currants; fold one side over the middle and the other on top of 
the first fold; roll lightly over with rolling pin. To obtain three 
inch pieces in length, cut in squares two inches wide. Set on pans, 
let rise, wash with egg wash and bake in a warm oven. Ice with 
water icing when done and while warm. 

47 




^=a * -a s 



World Yamo uj^efs "~H 




BERLIN PANCAKE 

Make a medium stiff dough of one pound of flour, two ounces of 
yeast, a pinch of salt, grated lemon rind, one and a half ounces of 
sugar and lukewarm milk. Let rise to double its volume; add then 
three ounces of butter, beating the dough well, set to prove. When 
ready scale off in half pound pieces; divide these in eight equal parts 
and set on well flour dusted boards after having them moulded round. 
Cover and let rise. When raised, press a hole in the middle with 
your finger and place a little raspberry jam in the hollows. Pinch 
them well together without washing so they form again a round ball, 
set them back on the boards and let rise to double their size. In the 
meantime have an iron pot or casserole filled with half lard and half 
butter and set on fire to heat. When hot enough, the pancakes are 
baked in it turning them from time to time. The color will be rather 
brown. It is essential that the grease is not too hot as the cakes 
will not bake in the center and will also be black instead of brown. 
As soon as they come from the pan roll in granulated sugar. Use a 
skimmer in taking the cakes from the grease and let the grease run 
off well. 

When the pancakes are filled and pinched they must be so perfectly 
closed so as not to let the marmalade run out while baking. The 
sugar contained in the jam will add much to the coloring while cooking; 
also set the finished cakes back on the boards with the pinched side 
down. 

BRIOCHE 

Make a sponge medium stiff of four ounces of flour and two ounces 
of yeast; mould this sponge round and make a cross incision on top. 
Put this sponge in a small vessel filled half full of lukewarm water. 
During the time the sponge rises, make a medium stiff paste of eight 
ounces of flour, four to five eggs, a little milk, a pinch of salt, one 
ounce of sugar. Work this dough well with both hands, beating it on 
the table to incorporate plenty of air and obtain a very smooth paste; 
add nine ounces of sweet butter, repeating the same beating as before 
for five minutes. Then mix the sponge well with the dough and set 
to rise over night in an ice box or on ice. In the morning divide in 
one and a half ounce pieces; mould them round and let rest for a while 
before putting them in the greased tartlet moulds. Make a top to the 

48 




TheirBread /Pa/try Recipe,/ 



round pieces in holding the hand so as to roll on the table a very 
small ball held by a tiny piece of dough to the bigger body of the 
Brioche. Let rise well, wash over with egg wash and cut four incisions 
from the sides of the Brioche to the middle, not touching the small 
head. This must be done with the scissors dipped in warm water. 
Bake in good warm oven. Mostly used for breakfast, also for after- 
noon teas — toasted and buttered. 

The Brioches can be also baked on pans; proceed as follows: 
Divide in one and quarter ounce pieces and leave enough paste to be 
able to make the heads of the Brioche. Mould the pieces round, 
divide the rest of the dough for the heads in as many equal very small 
pieces as you have Brioches. Set the large moulded rounds right off 
on greased pans. The small ones let rise on another cloth covered 
board. When ready, wash over the Brioche with egg wash; put the 
small balls on top in the center of each, cut four incisions with scissors, 
not touching the head of the Brioche. Incisions should mark across 
and are cut with the scissors, holding one point of the scissors under 
the bottom of the large round piece and cutting it through from the 
top. 

MASARIN 

Masarin is made of Savarin dough and baked in pound cake mould 
with sloping side. The mould is greased as stated for Savarin and 
finely shaved almonds put on the bottom. Fill half full and let come 
up to the top of the mould; bake in a medium hot oven. When 
baked and cold, soak in a thin syrup with only vanilla flavor in it. 
Before soaking, cut off the top of the cake, it being the part with the 
almonds showing. Cut about a quarter of an inch from the top. 
In the bottom part, make a hole about half an inch deep, leave a 
border about a quarter of an inch thick, so it will be strong enough to 
hold the cream filling. When cut, soak the whole cake using a brush 
and cover the top part with hot apricot sauce, also using a brush. 
Cream Filling 

Soak your leaves of gelatine in cold water. During the time the 
gelatine softens, cook one quart of milk and pour the boiling milk 
slowly in a well beaten preparation of four ounces of sugar, one ounce 
of strong flour and four egg yolks. Return to the casserole and bring 
all to a boil. As soon as cooked, add the gelatine, mixing it well, let 

49 



stand to cool. In the meantime, beat four egg whites and mix well 
under the almost cold cream. Fill in the Masarin and when stiffened, 
place the cover on top. The cream must be about half an inch above 
the border and must show when cover is put on. 

PLAIN BUNS 

To five pounds of sponge, add one gill of milk, half a pound of 
sugar, half an ounce of salt, a little mace and grated rind of one lemon. 
Mix these ingredients well into the sponge, add enough flour to make 
a smooth dough and then add half a pound of lard and work all well 
together. Let rise to only half its volume and make up in round 
buns, one and a half ounces in weight; set on greased pans and bake 
in medium hot oven, wash before baking with egg wash. 
OPERA BUNS 

Divide the bun dough in one and a half ounce pieces, mould first 
round and after a little rest, roll in form of finger rolls; place on greased 
pans, so as to touch each other on the sides but not on the ends. Let 
rise. When ready brush over with a light egg wash and sprinkle 
finely chopped nuts on top. Bake and when taken from the oven, 
ice with vanilla flavored stiF water icing. 

COCOANUT BUNS 

Mould one pound of fresh grated cocoanut and vanilla flavor 
in five pounds of bun [dough, let rise. Divide in one and a half 
ounce pieces; mould first round and after a while in small, pointed 
oval loaves. Set on pans, so as not to touch each other on the sides. 
Let rise and bake in a good heat. When baked, ice with water icing 
and besprinkle with slightly browned grated cocoanut. 
COFFEE CAKES WITH SPONGE 

Make a stiff sponge with two quarts of warm milk and four 
ounces of yeast. When fallen in center mix thoroughly, one quart 
of warm milk, six eggs, one pound and four ounces of sugar, half an 
ounce salt, mace and lemon flavor and enough flour to obtain a rather 
stiff dough. At last work one pound and a half of flour well into it 
and make coffee cakes of it. 

STREUSSELKUCHEN-GERMAN STYLE 

To one part of the coffee cake dough, add some currants, Sultana 
raisins and chopped almonds. Scale off in half pound pieces, mould 

50 





TheirBread /PajtryRecipe,/ 



round and let stand for a while. Flatten this round with the hand 
and roll out with the rolling pin in round flats, one-quarter inch thick. 
Brush over with egg wash and cover with Streussel; let rise double 
the size and bake in good hot oven. 

GERMAN STREUSSEL 

Rub together one pound powdered sugar, one pound and four 
ounces cake flour, eight ounces of butter, two ounces chopped almonds, 
lemon flavor and powdered cinnamon. When well rubbed it should 
form in small round balls. The better way is to press it through a 
coarse sieve. 

CINNAMON CAKE 

Prepare the same way as the Streussel cake, brush over with 
melted butter and cover with a thick layer of sugar mixed with pow- 
dered cinnamon. Bake like the Streusselkuchen. 

ALMOND COFFEE CAKE 

To four pounds of coffee cake dough, add one pound of chopped 
almonds, roll out pieces of two pounds in squares half an inch thick. 
Place on baking sheets; wash with egg wash and bake. When baked, 
ice over with water icing and sprinkle with chopped and browned 
almonds. 

GERMAN APPLE CAKE 

Roll out a thin sheet of the coffee cake dough one-eighth inch 
in thickness, to cover a baking sheet; press all the sides well up to 
form a border and give a little time to rise. Peel some good baking 
apples, cut each apple in eight pieces and take out the kernels; place 
nicely in rows on top of this sheet, besprinkle with sugar and cinnamon 
also a few currants and finely chopped citron peel; cover with a well 
greased sheet of strong paper and bake in a medium oven. All kinds 
of fruit cake can be made with the same dough and in the same manner. 
For peaches, apricots and plums, stone the fruit and cut in halves; 
arrange nicely and sprinkle sugar over. Berries as well as cherries 
are used. Whole cherries must also be stoned; berries should be 
washed and picked over. For berry cakes, as blueberries, make a 
thin custard cream, pour it over and bake with the cake. 

CHEESE CAKE 

Roll out a flat round ten ounces of coffee cake dough and line a 

51 



well greased cake ring with it. Set the ring on a baking sheet, prick 
a little with a fork and fill with the following mixture: Rub one pound 
and four ounces of firm cheese with three ounces of sugar, three ounces 
of flour, and add five egg yolks, rubbing all the time, a pinch of salt, 
vanilla flavor is also added. When smooth soften with a little milk 
and mix two ounces butter, some cleaned currants and five whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth into the former preparation. Bake about 
half an hour in a good heat. As soon as the cake has risen, cut all 
around the border with a very sharp knife. 

GUGGELHUPF 

Make a soft sponge of four ounces of flour and half an ounce 
of yeast and a little warm milk. Let rise in a warm place. In the 
meantime while the sponge is setting beat three ounces of sugar with 
half a pound of butter to a creamy froth; add fourteen egg yolks, four 
at a time, beating constantly. When the sponge is ready add to this 
mixture, twelve ounces of flour and the sponge, work every thing well 
together and put in a well buttered Guggelhupf mould; let rise and 
bake. When baked and cold, sift some very fine powdered sugar 
over. 

ZWIEBACK 

From a piece of bun dough mould round pieces about one ounce in 
weight; after a rest of about ten minutes, form in finger rolls three 
inches long. Arrange these fingers side by side close together in rows 
on a greased baking sheet; let rise double its size, wash over with a 
thin egg wash and bake. 

Let the baked Zwieback stand until the next day, then cut in 
slices, arrange on pans and toast them in the oven to a nice golden 
color. Some of the Zwieback may be iced with the following white 
of egg icing: Mix white of eggs with finest powdered sugar to a 
medium stiff paste; add a few drops of lemon juice and beat very 
light; spread this icing very thin and even over the Zwieback, using 
a knife. Put in oven, to give a nice light brown color. Finely shaved 
almonds can also be sprinkled over the icing and baked with it. 

PRETZELS 

Roll twenty ounces of coffee cake dough into a sheet, spread six 
ounces of butter of the same consistency as the dough on one side and 

52 



cover the other half over the first; the butter being inside. Roll out 
like puff paste and fold in three, by bringing one side in the center of 
the dough and covering with the other side. Take particular care 
that all three layers are equal size and cover each other perfectly even. 
Let rest for fifteen minutes in a cold place and give two more rollings 
in the same intervals. When rested after the last folding roll out in a 
sheet half an inch thick and cut in narrow strips. Twist each strip 
taking hold of the opposite ends and roll, with one hand towards you 
and the other from it; place on greased pans, set to prove and bake 
in a good heat. Ice with vanilla water icing as soon as they are 
taken from the oven and besprinkle with shaved browned almonds. 

CHEESE CAKE BAKED IN SQUARES 
Line a baking sheet with coffee cake dough an eighth of an inch 
thick, edges must be raised to form a border and keep the cheese 
preparation from running out: 

Cheese mixture — rub six ounces of butter, eight ounces of sugar, 
and three pounds of dry cheese curd to a very smooth paste; add 
three ounces of flour, and eight eggs, rub again well together and at 
last a pinch of salt, mace, grated lemon rind, half a pint of milk, 
six ounces currants and six ounces of Sultana raisins. When mixed 
thoroughly, spread evenly over the dough and bake in a medium hot 
oven. When cold sift sugar and cinnamon on top. Raisins and 
currants may be omitted in the mixture, but a few currants may be 
sprinkled over the cheese before baking. 

SALT STICKS 
Make a firm dough of one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, one 
ounce and a half of yeast and lukewarm milk; use good strong flour. 
When the dough has set, work six ounces of butter well into it and let 
rise again. Divide in small pieces, roll out to a very thin quarter 
of an inch thick long round strips. Place them on a greased baking 
sheet and place the strips a little distance apart across the width of 
the pan and give half proof. Before baking brush over with water 
and besprinkle thickly with salt. When baked, cut in sticks, three 
inches in length. Cut while warm. 

53 




World Famou/ 1 Chert 




YEAST RAISED DOUGHNUTS 
Roll out a piece of ready bun dough to a sheet half an inch thick, 
cut with a doughnut cutter. Place in cloth lined, flour dusted boxes 
and let rise. Heat in a flat cruller frying pan some lard, or lard 
and butter mixed and fry to a nice brown color. Do not give too 
much proof and have the grease hot, but not too hot. Cold grease 
will soak too much in the doughnuts and will absolutely spoil them. 
Take them out of the grease with a skimmer, let the superfluous grease 
drip off and roll in granulated sugar, mixed with a little cinnamon. 

BAKING POWDER DOUGHNUTS 
Four pounds of flour, one and a half pounds of sugar, six ounces 
of butter, one ounce cream tartar, half an ounce of baking soda, eight 
eggs, one and a half pints of milk a little mace and lemon extract. 
Sift cream of tartar with the flour on a sheet of paper, cream sugar 
and butter together, rub in the eggs, add a flavoring and the milk in 
which soda must be dissolved just before the milk is put into the 
mixture, work all well together and mix in the flour. 

Roll out to a sheet and cut with doughnut cutter, fry like other 
doughnuts and dust over with sugar. Instead of cream of tartar 
and soda, two ounces of baking powder may be used, which must be 
sifted with the flour. When using sour instead of sweet milk, add 
one ounce and a half of baking soda into the milk, leaving out cream 
of tartar and baking powder. 

FRENCH CRULLERS 
Put one pint of water and half a pound of butter together on the 
fire in a deep saucepan. Sift one pound of flour and two ounces of 
sugar on a sheet of paper. When water is boiling and rises, mix 
the flour in, stirring quickly. Leave, while stirring, on fire until 
the preparation does not stick to the casserole; work into this 
paste while warm, fifteen eggs, two by two at a time. Put the paste 
in a lady finger bar provided with a large star tube; dress on round 
cut and greased papers, the size of diameter of frying pan, in rings. 
When the grease is hot, turn the cakes w T ith the paper on them, the 
paper side up; it can be removed after a short while. The rings must 
be turned several times during the frying process to bake evenly to 

54 




Their Bread /Pa/try Recipe,/ 




a nice brown color. They may be served hot or cold with whipped 
cream or another cream sauce. 

ENGLISH CRUMPETS 

Make a slack dough of one quart of lukewarm milk, half an 
ounce of salt, one ounce of yeast and about two and a half pounds of 
good flour. Let set and work well again. Set to rise again, when 
ready, mold round and arrange in cloth lined, well floured boxes; let 
rise and bake in greased rings, flatten them in stretching lightly, 
but keep in shape. When baked to a nice brown color on one side, 
lift the crumpet and ring carefully and turn over on the other side, 
finish baking. The dough can also be made with half water and 
half milk instead of all milk. 

MUFFINS 

Muffins may be made of medium firm milk bread dough. Flatten 
a piece of dough with the hands about half an inch in thickness and 
cut with a cake cutter three inches in diameter; set on lightly floured 
boards or baking sheets and let prove hall its height. Bake without 
rings on griddle to a nice brown color on both sides; put on baking 
sheets and bake for five minutes in the oven. 

Muffins when cold can be cut in halves, toasted and buttered. 
When served hot they should be broken open and buttered; crumpets 
are prepared the same way. Milk or cream may also be served with 
both. 

CRUMPETS (Very soft Mixture) 

Make a soft batter of two pounds of flour, one quart milk, half 
an ounce of salt and one of yeast. It should be thickly running batter; 
let set like a bread sponge until it drops in center, beat it well down 
again and let come up only half. Grease griddle as well as rings, 
set the rings on the griddle plate and fill the batter in them with a 
custard dipper provided with a spout. Bake on side and turn care- 
fully with the ring over on the other side, using a cake turner. 

WHEAT MUFFINS 

Sift on a sheet of paper one ounce and a half of baking powder 
together with two ounces of cake flour. Rub eight ounces of butter 
and five ounces of sugar to a frothy cream, add gradually five eggs, 
beating all the time, mix a pinch of salt, mace and one quart of milk 

55 





World Famouj 1 Cher/ 1 



well into it and add the flour. Divide in greased muffin rings, placed 
on a greased baking sheet. Let rise and bake in a medium hot oven. 
They may also be baked in greased muffin cups. 

CORN MUFFINS 

Sift two ounces of baking powder with one and a half pounds of 
flour. Add one pound of yellow corn meal to it and mix well together. 
Cream eight ounces of butter and twelve ounces of sugar, rub into this, 
eight eggs, two at a time, mix one quart of milk and make a slack 
dough with the flour. Divide in muffin pans and bake in a good heat. 
Should make three dozen muffins. 

POPOVERS 

Beat four eggs, a pinch of salt and one pint of milk together 
and pour this in half a pound of flour gradually, stirring well to get 
a smooth running paste free from lumps; pass through a strainer and 
fill in well greased high timball moulds, the moulds should be a little 
more than half full. Bake for about thirty minutes in a medium hot 
oven. 

TEA BISCUITS 

Rub three ounces of lard and three ounces of butter, also three 
ounces of baking powder, well with six pounds of cake flour; add three 
pints of milk, a little salt and mix to a soft dough; do not work the 
dough too much, to prevent it from being too tough. Roll out about 
half an inch thick and set on greased baking pan close together. Let 
stand for about fifteen minutes. Brush over with egg wash and bake 
in a good heat; when baked and while hot, brush over with melted 
lard or butter. 

SANDWICH ROLLS 

The same preceding dough is divided in one and a half ounce 
pieces, moulded round like rolls and formed to oblong ovals with 
pointed ends. Let rest for at least twenty minutes, brush with egg 
wash and bake. 

SCONS 

The tea biscuit dough is scaled off in one pound pieces and 
moulded round after a few minutes rest, roll out with a thin rolling 
pin, the size of a pie plate; place on greased baking sheets and cut 
crosswise with the dough scraper. Let stand fifteen minutes, prick a 

56 




Their Bread/Pajtry Recipe/ 




little with a fork, brush over with egg wash and bake in a good heat. 
Scons are generally broken open and buttered. Serve hot. 

IMITATION FRENCH ROLLS WITH BAKING POWDER 
Make a tea biscuit dough of two pounds of flour, two and a half 
ounces baking powder, one ounce and a half of sugar, half an ounce of 
melted lard or butter, two egg yolks and one pint of milk, good measure. 
Rub all ingredients dry with the flour and add the milk last. Let 
this dough rest a few minutes, cut in one and a half ounce pieces, 
mould round, let rest again and press lengthwise through the middle, 
greasing the tops a little before making the split. Arrange on baking 
sheets, brush over with melted lard, let stand for twenty minutes to 
rise and bake in a good warm oven. 

CORN BREAD 

Scald twelve ounces of white corn meal with one pint of boiling 
water, add three ounces of melted lard or butter, half an ounce of 
salt, half a pint of cold milk and two eggs. Mix in four ounces of 
white corn meal and one ounce of baking powder; stir all well together 
with an egg whisk. The pan in which it is baked, must be heated 
well, while preparing the dough; it should be like a thin batter and 
about an inch and a half deep in the pan. Bake half an hour or more. 
When the pan is very hot no greasing is needed. 

GRIDDLE CAKES AND WAFFLES 

Griddle cakes and waffles may be made with yeast as well as 
baking powder. Baking powder cakes do not require as much time 
as yeast raised cakes, but griddle cakes made with yeast are the better 
ones. The griddle plate and the waffle irons must be clean, well 
greased and hot, to avoid sticking and burning. 
WHEAT CAKES 

Sift one pound of wheat flour, three ounces of sugar, a little 
salt and one ounce of baking powder together; mix with enough milk 
to make a thin running batter, add three well beaten eggs and one 
ounce melted butter. When a larger quantity is called for, leave 
the baking powder out of the preparation and only add it to the 
batter when baking begins; it is advisable to mix in half of the batter 
the necessary amount of powder and when exhausted, prepare the 
second half for use. When baking the plate should be hot, but not 

57 



too hot, so the cakes can bake thoroughly in center. Serve with 
syrup as soon as done. 

WHEAT CAKES WITH YEAST 

Make a very soft sponge as for crumpets with two pounds of 
flour, three ounces of yeast and two quarts of warm water; let stand 
until it falls in center, beat well, add one tablespoonful of syrup, 
four well beaten eggs, a pinch of salt and four ounces of melted butter, 
beat all well together; let rise a little and bake. 

GRAHAM BATTER CAKES WITH POWDER 

Sift in two pounds of wheat flour, three ounces of baking powder; 

mix two pounds of unsifted graham flour well with it, add half a 

pint of molasses, four well beaten eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, four 

ounces of melted butter and enough milk to make a smooth batter. 

GRAHAM CAKES WITH YEAST 

Make a soft sponge of one pound of graham flour and one pound 
wheat flour mixed; three ounces of yeast, and one quart of warm 
water; beat back when it drops in center, then add two ounces of 
syrup, salt, two well beaten eggs and two ounces melted butter. Let 
rise a little and bake. When sponge is set over night it must be 
mixed with cold water. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES WITH YEAST 

From one pound of buckwheat flour, four ounces of corn flour, 
two ounces of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt and one quart of warm 
water, make a smooth soft batter; dissolve three-quarters of an ounce 
of yeast in a little warm water and add to the batter; heat everything 
well together; let rise for about four hours, or until it drops in center, 
then add a tablespoonful of molasses and proceed as for the other 
cakes. When ready to use, add two teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
to half of the batter and when it is all used up, prepare the other 
half the same way. The same recipe may be used for baking powder 
cakes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

To four pounds of buckwheat flour add four ounces of baking 
powder and half a teaspoonful of baking soda; mix with milk, half 
water, to a smooth soft batter; then incorporate one ounce of salt, 
half a pint of molasses and four ounces of butter. 

58 




TheirBread/Pajtry Recipe/ 




FLANNEL CAKES 

Rub four ounces of butter and two ounces of sugar to a cream, add 
four eggs, one by one, rubbing all the time. Mix into this half a 
pound of wheat flour and two gills of milk to make a smooth batter; 
before using beat one tablespoonful of baking powder well in the 
batter. 

INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKES 
. Make a smooth batter of six ounces wheat flour, four ounces of 
corn meal, one ounce of powdered sugar, a pinch of salt and one gill 
of milk. Mix into this one and a half ounces of melted butter and 
just before baking, one teaspoonful of baking powder mixed with a 
little flour. 

RICE CAKES 
Sift together four ounces of wheat flour and four ounces of rice 
flour, put in a bowl and make a hollow in center, place in this two 
ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, four beaten eggs and one gill of milk. 
Make a smooth dough from these ingredients and when well mixed 
add one more gill of milk, finally pour into this two ounces of melted 
butter and half a pint well cooked dry rice. Beat in a teaspoonful 
of baking powder just before using. 

WAFFLES 

Beat one-quarter of a pound of powdered sugar well with sixteen 
whole eggs, add one quart of milk and mix two pounds and four 
ounces of flour into this, to obtain a smooth paste, free from lumps, 
beat then twelve ounces of melted butter, a pinch of salt, mace or 
lemon flavor well into the batter and mix two heaping teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder to the whole preparation. Bake in hot well greased 
waffle irons. 

CREAM WAFFLES 

Beat twelve ounces of butter well with ten whole and six yolks of 
eggs, add three ounces of sugar, lemon flavor and one and a half 
pounds of wheat flour. Into this mix slowly, one pint of whipped 
cream and six whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 

WAFFLES A'LA BOURGEOISE 
Cream half a pound of butter with eight eggs well, add a pinch 

59 



of salt and one pound of flour; mix with enough milk into a thin batter 
as for pancakes. Bake in very hot irons and dust after baking weli 
with sugar. 

HOLLAND WAFFLES 
Make a sponge of twelve ounces of flour, one and a half ounces of 
sugar, a pinch of salt, grated lemon rind, three eggs, six ounces melted 
butter, two ounces of yeast and one pint of lukewarm sweet cream; 
let set, beat and let rise a little again and bake as usual. Sift over 
with sugar and cinnamon mixed. 

FRENCH SWEET WAFFLES 

Separate fourteen eggs, sift together six ounces of sugar, one 
pound of flour and a little salt, put in a bowl and make a hollow in 
center. Beat the fourteen yolks of eggs with milk well together and 
make a smooth batter with the flour, add half a cup of brandy and 
one ounce of melted butter. When proceeding to make, mix into 
this batter one pint of whipped cream and the stiffly beaten fourteen 
whites of eggs. If batter must stand long, add a little baking powder 

RICE WAFFLES 

Make a smooth batter of one quart of soft boiled rice, one and 
a half pints of milk, one pound of flour, six eggs, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one spoonful of melted butter, one spoonful of syrup and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

NEWPORT WAFFLES 
Make a mush of one pint of Indian meal in the usual way; while 
hot, add a small lump of butter and a teasroonful of salt; let cool. 
Beat separately in the meantime, four eggs, add them to the mush 
and stir gradually into the preparation, one quart of flour. Add 
also, a half pint of buttermilk or sour cream in which a half a tea- 
spoonful of soda is dissolved. Stir all well together and mix milk 
enough into it to obtain a thin batter and bake as usual. 



60 



PASTRIES 




-v. j 



JEAN S. BERDOU 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ASTOR 
New York City, N. Y. 
Mr. Berdou took his 
apprenticeship under 
the celebrated Argeles 
Gasost, chef at the 
Hotel de France, Paris, 
Miter which he was with 
the Hotel Continental 
at Cauterets, France, 
Hotel de France at 
Paris, Hotel Continen- 
tal, Biarritz, France and 
Restaurant Francais, 
Madrid, Spain. Com- 
ing to this country he 
was at the famous Louis 
Sherry's Cafe, New 
York City. 



BEIGNETS DE POMMES (Apple Fritters) 
Make a paste with four- fifths pound of 
flour, four whole eggs, two pinches of salt, a 
spoonful sugar, one pint milk. Tak? four 
whites of eggs, well beaten, and mix with paste. 
Peel four apples, cut in round slices of medium 
thickness. Put in bowl with a little sugar and 
cognac and let soak for a few mi utes, then 
drop apples in paste above mentioned and fry 
in hot grease. Serve on napkin with vanilla 
flavored powdered sugar. 

PANCAKE A LA CONFITURE 
Take one and one-half ounces flour, four 
yolks of eggs, two whole eggs, one pint of un- 
cooked milk, three tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar and a little salt. Mix the whole to 
medium paste, ad 1 one pony glass of cognac 
and a few chopped bitter almonds. Take 
clean frying pan, butter it lightly, and pour 
the paste on it, so it will divide equally all over 
the pan and fry to a golden brown. Take a 
spoonful of good jelly, spread on pan cakes and 
roll them up and serve. This recipe should" 
make at least twenty-four pancakes. 



sfa&rz 



l #f <S&*£* 



61 




World Famous Chert 






r 



JEAN JUILLARD 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ADOLPHUS 
Dallas, Tex. 
Mr. Juillard was for- 
merly at Cafe Angiitis, 
Paris; Hotel Hermi- 
tage, Monte Carlo; Ho- 
tel d'Angleterre, Ven- 
ice; Savoy Hotel and 
Princess Restaurant, 
London; the Plaza, 
Belmont and Astor Ho- 
tels, New York City; 
Hotel La Salle, Rector's 
Cafe and University 
Club, Chicago. 




WAFFLES MACONNAISE 

On ordinary waffles, paste with a sabayon, 
as follows: Have prepared some fresh grapes, 
skinned and seeds removed; some brandied 
cherries, cut in dice; a port wine glass full of 
Hennessey brandy; the yolks of six eggs; one- 
half pint of good cream; sugar to suit taste. 
Mix the sugar and yolks of eggs together; add 
the grapes, cherries and cream, which have 
been boiled; then cook until near boiling; add 
your cognac; place all in a china bowl and mix 
until almost cold. 




CHESTER CAKE 
Proportions: three and one-half ounces of 
flour, same of butter, one and three-fourth ounce 
grated Parmesan, three yolks of eggs. Mix 
whole, but don't give it too much body. Spread 
thin on baking pan, let cool for one hour and cut 
in strips of one and one-half inches in diameter 
and bake in moderate oven 



62 



<7i- 



L^/z-^2. 



HENRI BERGER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

FRANKFURTER- 

HOF 

Frankfurt, 

A. M. Germany 

Mr. Berger has been 
with the following ho- 
tels: Hotel Chatham, 
Paris; the Hermitage at 
Monte Carlo, France; 
the Grand Hotel des 
Thermes, Salsomag- 
giore, Italy; the fa- 
mous Hotel Ritz, Paris, 
prior to coming to the 
Frankfurter-hof. 




Their Bread / Paltry Reci pe/ 




BASLER LECKERLI (Eight covers) 
Two pounds honey, two pounds sugar, four 
pounds flour, two pounds almonds, one-half 
pound citron, one-half pound orange peel, one- 
half quart water; one-fourth ounce cinnamon, 
cloves and nutmeg, two finely chopped lemon 
rinds, one-half pint kirschwasser; one-fourth 
ounce almonds finely powdered. 

Heat the honey and water first, then mix 
with the other ingredients, forming a dough. 
Roll out on a greased baking sheet to about 
one-eighth inch thickness and bake in a medium 
hot oven until well browned. When done, ice 
with Italian meringue and cut into uniform 
oblongs. 



/Ufa 



CHAS. GROLIMUND 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

WASHINGTON 
HOTEL 
Seattle, Wash. 
Mr. Grolimund was 
formerly at the Grand 
Hotel Neues Stahlbad, 
St. Moritz-Bad ; Grand 
Hotel Brussels, Brus- 
sels; Grand Hotel Quir- 
in'al, Rome; Grand Ho- 
tel Anatre Nation, Bar- 
celona, Restaurant Del- 
monico, New York and 
the St. Francis, San 
Francisco. 



ENGLISH MUFFINS 
Two quarts of milk, one and one-half 
ounces yeast, one ounce salt. Work into a 
medium dough and let set one hour. Work out 
again and mould the size of an egg and flatten a 
little. Now let rest until twice its size and bake 
on cake griddle. 



Wvwvs^Zrv 





GEORGE E. SCHAAF 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ALBANY 
Denver, Colo. 

Mr. Schaaf has been 
connected with several 
prominent hotels in 
this country prior to 
coming to the Albany, 
and was at one time, 
Chef at the Minneapolis 
Club in Minneapolis. 



63 



~ 



1 



\ 



GAUFRETTE SUISSE 
Five ounces flour, five ounces granulated 
sugar, two and one-half ounces drawn butter, 
one egg, two soupspoonfuls warm milk. Melt 
the sugar in the milk, then put flour, egg, butter, 
mix well together. Must be hard enough to be 
worked with the roller (it is better to make the 
dough the day before). Make twelve or fourteen 
little balls, about the size of a walnut. Flatten 
a little with roller, put on pastry pan and bake 
in the oven eight minutes. 



EMILE BAILLY, 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ST. REGIS 
New York City, N.Y. 
Mr. Bailly prior to 
coming to this country 
served in the very best 
hotels in Europe. He 
left the Grand Hotel 
of Monte Carlo, France 
ten years ago, to come 
to New York and open 
the St. Regis. 



PANCAKE HORTENSIA 
Five ounces flour, three eggs, two ounces 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt, one ounce drawn 
butter, three cups milk. Take three eggs, 
one-half pound cream cheese, pass through the 
sifter, work well in a bowl with three yolks, 
juice of one-half orange, two soupspoonfuls of 
powdered sugar. Make twelve pancakes, five 
inches in diameter; place on each pancake one 
small spoonful of the said preparation. Add a 
few raisins. Roll the pancakes and lay them in a tureen. Pour over 
it the following cream: half quart cream, half orange juice, three 
spoonfuls powdered sugar, let boil slowly in an oven not too hot, for 
three-quarters of an hour. A few minutes before baking, put some 
sugar over it and brown. 



£^^,^l /fcuiXy 



64 




TheirBread /Pajtry Recipe/ 





SOURAROFF 

Four ounces flour, two ounces butter, one 
and one-half ounces fine sugar, one-half pint 
cream, vanilla, form heap with flour and put rest 
of ingredients in center, mix together and let 
stand. Roll out paste and form flute, put in 
baking pan and bake in hot oven. 



•StUdv 0I^e^&- 



CESAR OBRECHT 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

GRAND HOTEL 
DE L 'EUROPE 

Lucerne, Switzerland 

also 
PALACE HOTEL 
LTD. 
Murren, Switzerland 
Mr. Obrecht, prior 
to holding his present 
position, was at the 
Grand Savoy Hotel at 
Florence, at the Grand 
Hotel and Kurhaus, at 
St. Blasien; the Grand 
Hotel cle Thouwe at 
Thouwe, the Grand 
Hotel Krasnapolsky at 
Amsterdam, the Grand 
Hotel de Salines at 
Reinfelden and the 
Grand Hotel Waldhaus 
at Yulpera. 



MUFFINS 
Half pound cornmeal, 
one-fourth pound flour, 
three-fourths^int milk, two 
eggs, tablespoon of yeast, 
one ounce good melted 
butter, one tablespoonful 
of honey, one teaspoonful 
salt, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, two ounces of 
currants. Make a smooth dough with both flour 
and milk, dissolve the yeast with a little milk 
and mix it in the dough. Put it in a bowl, 
cover with a towel and let rise in a warm 
place for one hour. Add the other ingredients. 
Work them all together for a good five minutes. 
Divide the paste into buttered muffin rings, 
let them rise again for another hour and cook 
in a moderate oven until thoroughly brown. 






LOUIS 
LESCARBOURA 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

FT. PITT HOTEL 
Pittsburg, Pa. 

Prior to coming to the 
Fort Pitt Hotel, Mr. 
Lescarboura was Chef 
at the Hotel Marlbor- 
ough, New York City, 
and other prominent 
eastern hotels, and was 
Entremetier at the 
famous "Delmonico's 
Cafe," New York City. 



65 




p- 



.7 

JjfSij 



MARTIN GINDER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL GREEN 

Pasadena, Cal. 
Mr. Ginder was ap- 
prenticed in France in 
the best hot .'Is. He 
was at the New York 
Athletic Club, the 
Princeton Club, the old 
Hotel Metropole, Cafe 
Savarin and the Yen- 
dome Hotel, New York 
City. He has also held 
several important posi- 
tions in the middle west 
prior to taking his pres- 
ent position. 



OLD FASHIONED GRIDDLE CAKES 

One tablespoonful of butter, two eggs, two 
cupfuls of milk, one teaspoonful of salt and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Warm the 
butter in the milk, pour in the yolk of a well 
beaten egg, add sufficient flour to make it pour 
easily, then add the salt and baking powder. 
Whip the white of an egg and mix all together 
thoroughly. Bake on a hot griddle. Make 
the cakes a good size, spread granulated maple 
sugar between each cake and serve the cakes on 
a plate with a cake cover. 

GOLD CAKE 
Half cupful of butter, half cupful of sugar, 
five yolks of eggs, one teaspoonful orange 
extract, seven-eighths cupful of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, quarter cupful of 
milk. Cream the butter, add sugar slowly 
and continue beating. Add the yolks of five 
eggs beaten until thick. Add orange extract, 
mix and sift flour with the baking powder and 
add alternately with milk to the first mixture. 
Bake in buttered and floured tin. 



APPLE PIE 

Roll pie crust to the thickness desired. Place this on a pie dish, 
shaping it carefully and cut around the edges with a sharp knife. Cover 
the bottom of crust with a layer of sugar, dust with flour, then fill 
the crust with quarters of peeled and cored apples. Dust with a 
little salt and plenty of sugar. Cover the whole with the crust and 
trim the edges again. Press together upper and lower crust. Bake 
until apples are done, and bottom crust is a nice brown. Serve with 
every portion, a piece of American cheese. 



66 




TheirBread /Paltry Recipe,/ 




SWEET CORN PUDDING 

Scrape the corn from six ears, beat three eggs, and add one cupful 
of milk, half teaspoonful of salt, one dash of cayenne pepper, mix eggs 
in slightly with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar. Bake in deep small vegetable dish or custard cups for 
fifteen minutes, in a slow oven. 






S. B. PETTENGILL 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ORMOND 
Ormond Beach, Fla. 
Mr. Pettengill has 



BEATEN BISCUIT 

Take a quart of pastry flour and add one- 
half teaspoonful salt, sift and work two table- 
spoonfuls lard into the flour with the finger 
tips. Add enough cold water so as to make a 
stiff dough. Place dough on a bread board 
and beat for about twenty minutes with a 
mallet, then roll out, cut and place in a pan 
which has been greased, prick with a fork and 
bake in hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve 
piping hot. 



been chef at the Hotel 
Ormond for fifteen sea- 
sons, and at the Craw- 
ford House, White 
Mountains, N. H. for 
twenty-five seasons. 



HOT SPOON BREAD 

Take one quart white corn meal into which 
has been sifted a tablespoonful of salt. Pour 
about a pint of scalding water on the meal and 
mix thoroughly. Put this mixture on a well 
greased pan with a spoon and place in hot oven 
to bake for fifteen minutes. Serve hot. 



^/3/£^£^£<l&L 



67 






G. 



R. MEYER 

CHEF 

RECTOR'S 
Chicago, 111. 
With finest hotels in 
Europe, also the Aud- 
itorium, Congress and 
College Inn, Chicago. 



CORN BREAD 

Put four ounces of butter into a mixing 
bowl, with four ounces of sugar and a pinch of 
salt, cream it well, then add four eggs, one at a 
time, beat well and add half a pint of milk. 
Mix, then add one pound of corn meal and half 
a pound of flour, adding two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder to the flour before sifting. This 
may be baked in individual well buttered corn 
moulds or in a shallow buttered pan, filling from 
half to two-thirds full and baking from fifteen 
to twenty minutes. Serve very hot. 



SAVARIN WITH STRAWBERRIES-MELBA 

Dissolve one-fourth ounce compressed yeast 
in warm milk and make a paste with one-half 
pound flour. Add four eggs and mix well, 
cover and put in a warm place until dough 
has raised to double its size. Add six ounces of soft butter, a little 
salt and sugar and work thoroughly until very elastic. Fill in buttered 
savarin moulds and let rise. Bake in medium hot oven. When cold 
they are soaked in boiling syrup, flavor with lemon, orange, kirsch 
and cinnamon and place on dish; dress in center of the savarin some 
nice ripe strawberries and cover with raspberry syrup. 

GENOISE CAKE 
Four eggs and four ounces of sugar, powdered, are whisked over 
slow fire until very light, add vanilla flavoring and mix well but lightly 
with four ounces of flour and three ounces of melted butter. Bake 
in medium hot oven. 



^ 



T^^e^s 



1 



68 




Their Bread /Paltry Recipe/ 




LUCIEN FUSIER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

GRAND HOTEL 
METROPOLE 

Interlaken, Switzerland 
Mr. Fusier was for- 
merly at the Shep- 
heard's Hotel at Cairo, 
the Grand Hotel du 
Louvre at Menton, 
France, Hotel Schwei- 
zerhof at Interlaken, 
Switzerland; Tunisia 
Palace, Tunis; the 
Yongfraublick Hotel at 
Interlaken, Switzerland, 
and at the Cap Hotel, 
Bordighera. Portugal. 



MOUSSELINE CAKE 

Beat eight yolks of eggs in a basin with a 
quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and a 
sprinkling of grated lemon. Mix therewith 
one-eighth pound of flour, one-eighth pound of 
melted butter and eight whites of eggs, duly- 
beaten up. Cook this in a flat mould, then 
cut the biscuit horizontally in thin slices. Be- 
tween two slices make a filling of cream of butter 
with kirsch, and fill the other slice with cream 
of butter put with chocolate. Glaze and 
decorate the cake with melted chocolate. 



.€, 



tstse>c&sfTs 



BRIOCHES 
Work two ounces dis- 
solved yeast, four ounces 
sifted flour and enough luke- 
warm milk to make a stiff 
sponge. Cover and set 
aside in warm place to rise. 
Mix one and one-fourth 
pounds sifted flour and 
eight whole and six yolks of eggs, one and 
one-half pounds granulated sugar with one 
pound soft butter perfectly smooth. Beat 
the risen stiff sponge to the same and work the 
whole over. Set aside to rise to about twice 
its size. Place in refrigerator until firm. Work 
into round balls. Place in buttered moulds and a 
small ball on top. Let rise a little, mark them 
across with knife, wash with egg wash and bake 
in oven of about 425 degrees Fahrenheit for 
about twelve minutes. Serve warm for breakfast. 




^^^^7 



CHAS. A. FREY 

CHEF 

HOTEL 
ALEXANDRIA 

Los Angeles, Cal. 

Mr. Frey was first at 
the Hotel von Konig 
von England in Mun- 
ster; later at the Dom 
Hotel, Cologne; Con- 
tinental Hotel, Paris; 
with the North German 
Lloyd and Hamburg- 
American Steamship 
Lines and Hotel Belle- 
vue-Stratford, Philadel- 
phia. 



69 



( 



: , 



ADRIAN DELVAUX 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL BALTIMORE 

Kansas City, Mo. 
Mr. Delvaux started 
in at the Grand Hotel 
in Rheims, France, and 
thence to the Bristol 
Hotel in Paris. In 
this country, at the 
Chicago Club, Hotel 
Congress and Annex, 
Chicago and at the 
Auditorium Hotel, 

Chicago. He has been 
at the Hotel Baltimore 
for five years, where 
he has made the Balti- 
more famous for its 
cuisine. 



CORN MUFFINS 
Take one-half pound of yellow corn meal, 
three-fourths pound soft wheat flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, sift together 
in a bowl. Add to this five ounces of sugar, 
two eggs, four ounces melted butter, a pinch of 
salt; mix to a stiff batter and add one pint of 
milk. Have eight individual moulds, fill one- 
third full and put in hot oven and bake until 
done. Serve. 

WAFFLES WITH RASPBERRY JAM 

Take one pint of milk, two cups of flour, 
four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a pinch 
of salt; mix thoroughly together and stir until 
very smooth. Then grease waffle irons and 
have them very hot. Pour batter in and allow 
them to stay until a crisp color. Serve with 
raspberry jam or any syrup or jelly desired. 



HOME MADE RICE PUDDING 
Boil one-half pound rice with water, put 
in a little cinnamon stick. When ready, strain 
and wash with cold water. Have ready made 
and cold, one pint of custard cream from the 
following ingredients: one pint milk, four yolks 
eggs, four ounces sugar, one ounce corn starch. Dissolve with the 
ready custard cream, then add one-half pint of sweetened whipped 
cream, and a pinch of salt. Fill up the pudding dishes and bake in a 
hot oven. When ready, sprinkle on top a little well flavored cinnamon 
sugar. Serve with plain cream on side. 



70 





TheirBread /Pajtry Recipe/ 



CAKE A LA ANNA 

Yolks of four eggs beaten to the lightest possible cream, one 
cupful of sugar, pinch of salt, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, sifted well with flour. Bake in two jelly cake pans. 

Icing: Take the juice of a ripe pineapple, put some icing sugar 
in a vessel and incorporate the liquid slowly, just before using. 



£^^-g^t^x>^-^: 




ERNEST 
OTZENBERGER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL DENNIS 

Atlantic City, N.J. 

Mr. Otzenberger was 

formerly Chef for G. 

W. Vanderbilt in Paris, 

London and New York. 



CHERRY FRITTERS 
Select one pound large and fine cherries, 
remove the pits and lay the fruit in a bowl. 
Sprinkle over with sugar, pour on a few spoonfuls 
of kirschwasser and let macerate for one hour. 
Then drain and thread eight of them on a 
silver skewer or a straw. Roll them in lady 
finger dust and dip in frying batter. Plunge 
them in hot frying fat and when the paste is 
fried and well cooked, drain off the fritters on a 
cloth, sponge them and dredge over with vanilla 
sugar, then dress in a pyramid on a folded 
napkin. Serve at the same time, a cherry 
sauce made with cherry juice and flavored with 
kirschwasser. 



FRYING BATTER FOR SWEET DISHES 

One-half pound flour, dilute it with tepid 

water, into which one ounce of butter has been 

melted, also salt. Make a soft very smooth 

batter, and when it has cooled off, add to it half a gill of brandy, two 

egg yolks, and two whites, beaten to a stiff froth. 






71 






BEN E. 
DUPAQUIER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL 
ARLINGTON 

Santa Barbara, Cal. 

Air. Dupaquier's first 
position was in The 
Pendennis Club, of 
Louisville, Ky. Later 
at the Gauft House, 
Louisville, the Missouri 
Athletic Club, the Mer- 
cantile Club and the 
New Jefferson Hotel of 
St. Louis; the Jonathan 
Ciub and the California 
Club, Los Angeles and 
the Hotel Maryland, 
Pasadena, Cal. 



jelly, then roll the 
over them; lay on 



FRENCH PANCAKE WITH JELLY 

Four ounces sifted flour, half ounce powdered 
sugar, two whole raw eggs, one saltspoon salt, 
three-quarters pint good cold milk, eight drops 
vanilla essence, four drops orange flavoring and a 
tablespoonful Jamaica rum. Place the flour in 
a vessel, break in the eggs; add the sugar, salt, 
essences and the milk gradually. With a wire 
whisk briskly beat up the whole together for five 
minutes, or until thoroughly thickened. Then 
pass it through a Chinese strainer into another 
small vessel and let stand for thirty minutes. 
Have a tablespoonful melted butter on a saucer. 
Have a small frying pan, six inches in diameter 
at the bottom, lightly greased with the butter 
by means of a small hair pastry brush. When 
the bottom of the pan is thoroughly hot, pour 
the equivalent of three tablespoonfuls of the 
preparation into the pan and fry on a brisk fire 
until a nice golden color, which will take about a 
minute, then turn it over and fry exactly the 
same. Be very careful not to allow the cakes 
to get black. Carefully turn the cake on a 
hot plate on the corner of the range. Make 
eleven more in the same manner, lightly dredge 
with fine sugar on top, spread a thin layer on 

cakes up nicely and dredge just a little more sugar 

a hot dish and serve very hot. 



PLUM PUDDING 

Carefully remove the fibres and strings from a half pound of 
fresh beef kidney suet, chop finely with two tablespoonfuls flour and 
place in a large bowl, adding half a pound well picked and washed 
currants, half pound seeded Malaga grapes, quarter pound fresh bread 
crumbs, two ounces chopped candied lemon peel, half pound fine sugar, 
half teaspoonful ground cinnamon, one saltspoon ground nutmeg; 
half pint good rum and three eggs. Briskly mix the whole together 

72 



with a wooden spoon for five minutes. Dip a piece of cloth in cold 
water and wring it out. Spread the cloth on a table, lightly butter 
with the hand and sprinkle a little flour ovsr it; shake the cloth to 
remove the excess flour; place the contents of the bowl in the center 
of the cloth, bring up the four corners together so as to entirely enclose 
the pudding and lightly tie around. Have plenty of boiling water 
in a large pan and plunge in the pudding. Cover the pan and let it 
boil for two and a half hours. Remove it from the water and hang 
up for ten minutes. Cut the string and carefully turn it on a hot 
dish without breaking. Dredge with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
pour over one gill of rum, set it on fire and immediately serve with 
hard sauce separately. 

HARD SAUCE 
Place in a cool bowl one ounce good butter, two ounces fine sugar, 
half saltspoonful ground mace and five drops of vanilla essence. Set 
the bowl on broken ice and sharply beat up with a wooden spoon for 
five minutes, then keep in a cool place till required. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS 
One-quarter pound wheat flour, one-half pound cornmeai, one- 
half ounce powdered sugar, one-half ounce good butter, one-half pint 
cold milk, one-half ounce baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt 
and one whole raw egg. Place all these ingredients in a basin and 
carefully mix with the hand until thoroughly thickened, which will 
require about six minutes. Lightly butter the interior of six oval 
corn bread or muffin moulds. Place the preparation into the moulds 
up to three-quarters of their height. Lay them on a baking tin and 
bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Remove, dress on a hot dish 
with a folded napkin and serve. 



^QU*. 2T- &?U<rfC*f*****~ 



73 




HENRI BOUTROUE 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL 
SHELBOURNE 
Dublin, Ireland 
Mr. Boutroue was 
formerly with the Clif- 
ton Down Hotel at 
Bristol, England, the 
Queen's Hotel at Leeds, 
England, the Savoy 
Hotel in London; the 
Laugham, London, also 
the Hotel Metropole, 
London. 



BLINIS 

One-half ounce rye flour, one tablespoonful 
butter, mix with a quarter of a cup of milk, two 
eggs, one-half ounce melted butter. The mixture 
must have the consistency of freezing paste. 
Let rise to double its size, add two whites of 
eggs beaten and one-half pint of cream, and 
cook like pancakes. 




£Nivi 



l£T<HL 



OLD FASHIONED BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

Add to one pound of buckwheat flour one 
ounce of baking powder and a half teaspoonful 
of baking soda, mix with milk and water to a 
solt batter; add one-half cup of molasses, three 
ounces of melted butter, one-half ounce of salt 
and pour on hot griddle and bake as usual. 



VIENNA BRIOCHES 
Take one pint of milk, two ounces yeast 
one ounce sugar, pinch of salt, eight ounces 
butter and four eggs; make a light sponge with milk and yeast; when 
ready add the beaten eggs, sugar and salt, add the flour and last the 
butter. Make a medium dough; let come up and work over and 
set in a cool place for one hour to get firm; then form into different 
shapes twist, rolls, etc. Give good prove and bake in evenly heated 
oven to a nice brown. 



c?' 



4~ <&: 



71 




Their Bread/StoRecipe/ 





WAFFLES 

One quart flour, one pint milk, four tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful salt, 
two tablespoonfuls melted butter and six eggs. 
Thoroughly beat the eggs for five minutes, 
add flour and baking powder, butter, salt and 
milk. Work good to a thin batter; heat waffle 
irons very hot, grease well with butter and fill 
with the batter and cook for five minutes. 
Serve immediately. 



CHARLES 
PIER GIORGI 



HONEY INDIAN SPOON BREAD 
One quart water, two quarts milk, one- 
half pound cornmeal, one quarter pound honey, 
six eggs, one cup whipped cream, four ounces 
of butter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one 
teaspoonful of salt, three spoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. 

Bring water and milk to a boil, add corn- 
meal, incorporate slowly with a whip, and let 
boil slowly for one-half hour. Separate the 
whites from the yolks of the eggs. Melt the 
honey and strain through cheesecloth and 
add to the cornmeal. Incorporate thoroughly 
and remove from the fire. Add the butter, the yolk of the eggs one 
at a time, keeping the whole well stirred. Add salt, sugar and baking 
powder. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth add same to the whipped 
cream and stir lightly. Put the mixture in an earthen four quart 
bowl well buttered and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes and 
serve immediately. 



CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ALCAZAR 

St. Augustine, Fla. 
Prior to coming to 
the Hotel Alcazar, Mr. 
Giorgi was at the Hotel 
Walton and the Gilsey 
House, New York City; 
the Bay Shore House at 
City Island, N.Y. ; the 
Hollywood Hotel at 
West End, N.J., and 
at the Hotel Kittatinny 
pt Delaware Water Gap 
Pa. 



\9Aa/>V(Saju gfvoA^ 



7.3 



FRENCH PANCAKES AU CONFITURE 

(Preserves) 
Take a half pound of flour, salt, eight 
yolks of eggs, one pint of good rich milk, three 
ounces butter; make a batter; then add whites 
of eggs and mix the whole well and add, if you 
wish, vanilla or lemon. Take a few small 
frying pans and put in each a little clarified 
butter and cover the bottom of same with a very 
thin layer of the batter and when a nice golden 
brown is obtained, empty on the table and 
spread with preserves, jams or jellies. Roll 
them up, sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
burn with red hot poker. 



JULES BOUCHER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ARLINGTON 

Hot Springs, Ark. 

Mr. Boucher served 
his apprenticeship at 
famous French Hotels 
and Cafes under Chefs 
world famous, such as 
Father Thiebout, of the 
Maison et Chabot of 
Paris, Chef Cassinin, 
of the Maisson Dorce, 
and was at the Res- 
taurant Marguery, Pal- 
ace Madelaine of Paris ^ T TT , , „ TTT ^^ T ^/"i 
and the Cafe Royal of PLUM PUDDING 

\Ztl\e C :Z iU Jttl Carefully remove the 

Hotel Tourrame, Bos- fibres and strings from 
ton, Auditorium Hotel, , _„ . . , , . 

Chicago, and the De- a half pound fresh beet 

troit Club, at Detroit. kidney suet , finely chop 

with little flour and place in a large bowl, adding 
currants, Malaga grapes, bread crumbs, chopped 
candied lemon peel, sugar, ground cinnamon, 
nutmeg, run and six eggs. Mix the whole all 
together for five minutes. Place the contents 
in a cloth, roll tightly and tie it around. Place 
pudding in steam for two and one-half hours. 
Place brandy over. Set on fire and serve. 



■£>-z>t<S-/!*r-x 



r 



&CtJW 




LOUIS THEIN 

FORMERLY 
CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL UTAH 

Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Mr. Thein has been 
with some of the best 
Hotels and Cafes in 
America. 



76 




TheirBread/MIEHBM 







j 



DELICES DE CAMEMBERT 
(Camembert Delights) 
Make eight small rolls of bun paste about 
one inch long. Split on side like eelarr and 
fiU with the following: One-half well cleaned 
^member* passed through a S*»*W 
work over ice while adding one ounce buttei 
To three or four spoonfuls of double cream 
until cheese becomes very light, add little salt 
and cayenne. 



SOUFFLE AU CHESTER 
(Chester Cheese Souffle) 
Melt one-half pound butter four ounces 
flour mixed in it, boil one pint of milk, pour 
er hX and flour and let cook a few minute, 
then take off the stove and let cool. Add six 
yolks of eggs, two and one-half pounds grated 
Chester cheese, salt and paprika. Beat white 
of eight eggs and add to above mixture Put 
iu timbales, sprinkled llmesan cheese over top and bake 
in moderate oven twenty minutes. 



JULES KOHLER 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL ADLON 
Berlin, Germany 
Monsier Jules Kohler 
came to the Adlon from 
the most elegant and 
famous Restaurant in 
Paris, the "Cafe de 
Paris. " 




QUEEN CAKES 

erate oven about twenty minutes. Cut in slices an 



77 




World Famous Cmefj 1 





PETER BONA 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

HOTEL 
CHAMBERLAIN 

(Old Point Comfort) 
Fortress Monroe, Va. 
Mr. Bona's history 
since he arrived in this 
country is brief: three 
years at the Waldorf 
Astoria, New York 
City, in various capaci- 
ties in the kitchen. 

diameter and one- 
both sides. 



VIRGINIA BATTER BREAD 

One-half pint water, ground meal (white 
meal), one-half teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder, one-half tablespoon 
flour, one-half tablespoon of butter, one-half 
pint milk (sweet), two eggs; scald the meal in 
one-half pint of water. Heat the one-half pint 
milk and add to scalded meal and add the 
remainder of the ingredients, baking powder 
last, and stir well together. Divide this batter 
in two small pans and bake in a fast oven, 
about fifteen minutes. When batter is ready 
for baking it should be a little heavier than the 
consistency of milk. If same appears to be 
too thick add milk to reduce to proper con- 
sistency. 

CORN CAKES 

One-half pint white corn meal, unbolted, 

little salt, scald in very hot water, add one egg. 

Drop in small cakes about three inches in 

fourth inch thick, on a hot griddle and brown on 



j^^z^L- 



78 



pTHJRBgp^RA^fE(W 




PETITES SOUFFLES AU PARMESAN 

Take about one-half ounce butter, same 
quantity of flour, add a cup of boiling milk, 
thicken with three yolks of eggs, and let cool. 
When cooled, mix one-half ounce of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Beat in the whites of eggs 
and empty the whole in timbalss. Cook twenty 



\ 



A. SCHLOETTKE 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

WESTMINSTER 
HOTEL 

Dresden, Germany 
Mr. Schloettke served 
his apprenticeship at 
the Kalms Hotel at 
Brunswig, Germany. 
Since then he has served 
at the Traiteur Ferario, 
at Dresden, Germany; 
the Hotel Fahrhaus at 
Hamburg; the Dom 
Hotel at Cologne on 
Rhine; the Hotel Rich- 
mond at Geneva, Swit- 
zerland, the Hotel St. 
Croix, the Grand Hotel 
Bere-eus, at Geneva, and 
the Grand Hotel du 
Parquis at Vevey, Swit- 
zerland. 



TARTLETTES CALIFORNIA 

Shape your moulds with short paste — then 
cook; put in a half of a peach and decorate 
around with cherries and strawberries. Cover 
the whole with a thick raspberry syrup flavored 
with maraschino. 





G. MILHAU 

CHEF DE CUISINE 

TAIT-ZINKAND 
CAFE 

San Francisco, Cal. 

Mr. Milhau learned 
his trade at the Cafe 
Boudoul at Marseilles, 
France. Following this 
he was Chef at the 
Grand Hotel De la Paix 
at Florence, Italy., 
Coming to this country 
he was at the Union 
Club, Boston, the Tour- 
raine Hotel, Boston, the 
Metropolitan Club and 
at the St. Regis Hotel, 
New York City. He 
came west with Mr. 
Emile Bailly to open the 
Fairmont Hotel in San 
Francisco. 



79 



INTERNATIONAL COOKING LIBRARY 

By the 

World Famous Chefs 

Complete in Ten Volumes 
Vol. No. 1 — Salads and Salad Dressings 

2 — Dainty Sweets (Ices, Creams, Jellies and Pre- 
serves) 

3 — Ultra Select Dishes for Afternoon Teas 
4 — Chafing Dish Specialties 

5 — International Dessert and Pastry Special- 
ties 

6 — Bread and Pastry Recipes 

7 — Soups and Consommes 

8 — Fish, Oysters and Sea Foods 

9 — Roasts and Entrees 

10 — Relishes, Garnishings and Finishings 

EACH BOOK COMPLETE 

This is undoubtedly the finest, most complete and most 
select set of books ever published in the culinary line. The 
special dishes of the World Famous Chefs, United States, 
Canada and Europe. Forty-seven contributors. 

Price 50 cents per volume — NET 
Sold by dealers everywhere or mail orders to 

INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING CO. 
Los Angeles, Cal; 

80 



urn § \m 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




