
Class _XXX15_ 

Book J) A 

GopyrightN" 

COF^IGHT DEPOSm 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

4 Teaspoonfuls equal 1 tablespoonful liquid. 

4 Tablespoonfuls equal 1 wineglass, or half a gill. 

2 Wineglasses equal 1 gill, or half a cup. 

2 Gills equal 1 coffee-cupful, or 16 tablespoonfuls. 

2 Coffee-cupfuls equal 1 pint. 

2 Pints equal 1 quart. 

4 Quarts equal 1 gallon. 

2 Tablespoonfuls equal 1 ounce, liquid. 

1 Tablespoonful of salt equals 1 ounce. 

16 Ounc?s equal 1 pound, or a pint of liquid. 

4 Coffee-eupfuls of sifted flour equal 1 pound. 

1 Quart of unsifted flour equals 1 pound. 

8 or 10 ordinary sized eggs equal 1 pound. 

1 Pint of sugar equals 1 pound. (White granulated.) 

1 Tablespoonful of soft butter, well rounded, equals 1 
ounce. 

An ordinary tumberful equals 1 coffee-cupful, or half a 
pint. 

About 25 drops of any thin liquid will fill a common-sized 
teaspoon. 

1 Pint of finely chopped meat, packed solidly, equals one 
pound. 

A set of tin measures (with small spouts or lips), from a 
gallon down to half a gill, will be found very convenient in 
every kitchen ; though common pitchers, bowls, glasses, etc., 
may be substituted. 



THE ^3_ 

AMERICAN HOME ''"'^ 
COOK BOOK 

A VOLUME OF 
TESTED RECIPES 



EDITED BY 

GRACE E. DENISON 

AUTHORITY ON DOMESTIC' SCIENCE TOPICS 
AIDED BY OVER 150 SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS 



NEW YORK 
BARSE & HOPKINS 
PUBLISHERS 



TX71S 
,34- 



Copyright, 1913, by Barse & Hopkins 



/ 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Soups 1 

Fish 37 

Meats 70 

poxjltbt and game 108 

Vegetables 148 

Puddings and Sauces 185 

Desserts, Custakds and Creams 227 

Pastry, Pies and Tarts 254 

Cakes 272 

Bread and Muffins 310 

Toast 341 

Sandwiches 347 

Eggs and Omelets 360 

Salads 369 

Pickles 388 

Preserves, Jellies, etc 407 

Candies 424 

Chafing Dish Recipes 438 

Beverages 449 

Butter and Cheese 461 

Miscellaneous 476 

Dishes for the Sick 493 

Toilet Recipes 511 

Dinner Giving 516 

Index 529 



SOUPS 

Consomme, or Stock, forms the basis of all meat soups, 
and also of all principal sauces. It is, therefore, essential to 
the success of these culinary operations to know the most 
complete and economical method of extracting from a cer- 
tain quantity of meat the best possible stock or broth. 
Fresh uncooked beef makes the best stock, with the addition 
of cracked bones, as the glutinous matter contained in them 
renders it important that they should be boiled with the 
meat, which adds to the strength and thickness of the soup. 
They are composed of an earthy substance — to which they 
owe their solidity — of gelatine, and a fatty fluid, something 
like marrow. Two ounces of them contain as much gelatine 
as one pound of meat ; but in them, this is so encased in the 
earthy substance, that boiling water can dissolve only the 
surface of the whole bones, but by breaking them they can 
be dissolved more. When there is an abundance of it, it 
causes the stock, when cold, to become a jelly. The flesh 
of old animals contains more flavor than the flesh of young 
ones. Brown meats contain more flavor than white. 

Mutton is too strong in flavor for good stock, while veal, 
although quite glutinous, furnishes very little nutriment. 

Some cooks use meat that has once been cooked; this 
renders little nourishment and destroys the flavor. It might 
answer for ready soup, but for stock to keep it is not as 
good, unless it should be roasted meats. Those contain 
higher fragrant properties; so by putting the remains of 
roast meats in the stock-pot you obtain a better flavor. 

The shin bone is generally used, but the neck or "sticking 
piece," as the butchers call it, contains more of the sub- 

1 



2 SOUPS 

stance that you want to extract, makes a stronger and more 
nutritious soup than any other part of the animal. Meats 
for soup should always be put on to cook in cold water, in a 
covered pot, and allowed to simmer slowly for several hours, 
in order that the essence of the meat may be drawn out 
thoroughly, and should be carefully skimmed to prevent it 
from becoming turbid; never allow to boil fast at any time, 
and if more water is neded, use boiling water from the tea- 
kettle ; cold or lukewarm water spoils the flavor. Never salt 
it before the meat is tender (as that hardens and toughens 
the meat), especially if the meat is to be eaten. Take off 
every particle of scum as it rises, and before the vegetables 
are put in. 

Allow a little less than a quart of water to a pound of 
meat and bone, and a teaspoonful of salt. When done, 
strain through a colander. If for clear soups strain again 
through a hair sieve, or fold a clean towel in a colander set 
over an earthen bowl, or any dish large enough to hold the 
stock. As stated before, stock is not as good when made 
entirely from cooked meats, but in a family which requires 
a large joint roasted every day, the bones and bits and 
underdone pieces of beef, or the bony structure of turkey or 
chicken that has been left from carving, bones of roasted 
poultry, these all assist in imparting a rich dark color to 
soup, and would be sufficient, if stewed as above, to furnish 
a family, without buying fresh meat for the purpose; still, 
with the addition of a little fresh meat it would be more 
nutritious. In cold weather you can gather them up for 
several days and put them to cook in cold w^ater, and when 
done, strain, and put aside until needed. 

Soup will be as good the second day as the first if heated 
to the boiling point. It should never be left in the pot, but 
should be turned into a dish or shallow pan, and set aside to 
get cold. Never cover up, as that will cause it to turn sour 
very quickly. 



SOUPS s 

Before heating a second time, remove all the fat from the 
top. If this be melted in, the flavor of the soup will cer- 
tainly be spoiled. 

Thickened soups require nearly double the seasoning used 
for thin soups or broth. 

Coloring is used in some brown soups, the chief of which 
is brown burnt sugar, which is known as caramel by French 
cooks. 

Pounded spinach leaves give a fine green color to soup. 
Parsley, or the green leaves of celery, put in soup will serve 
instead of spinach. 

Pound a large handful of spinach in a mortar, then tie it 
in a cloth, and wring out all the juice ; put this in the soup 
you wish to color green, five minutes before taking it up. 

Mock turtle, and sometimes veal and lamb soups, should 
be this color. 

Okra gives a green color to soup. 

To color soup red, skin six red tomatoes, squeeze out the 
seeds and put them into the soup with the other vegetables — 
or take the juice only as directed for spinach. 

For white soups, which are of veal, lamb or chicken, none 
but white vegetables are used; rice, pearl barley, vermicelli, 
or macaroni for thickening. 

Grated carrot gives a fine amber color to soup ; it must be 
put in as soon as the soup is free from scum. 

HERBS AND VEGETABLES USED IN SOUPS 

Of vegetables the principal ones are carrots, tomatoes, 
asparagus, green peas, okra, macaroni, green corn, beans, 
rice, vermicelli, Scotch barley, pearl barley, wheat flourj 
mushroom or mushroom catsup, parsnips, beet-root, turnips, 
leeks, garlic, shalots, and onions; sliced onions fried with 
butter and flour until they are browned, then rubbed 
through a sieve, are excellent to heighten the. color and 
flavor of brown sauces and soups. The herbs usually used 



4 SOUPS 

in soups are parsley, common thyme, summer savory, 
knotted marjoram, and other seasonings such as bay-leaves, 
tarragon, allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, mace, black 
and white pepper, red pepper, lemon-peel and juice, orange- 
peel and juice. The latter imparts a finer flavor and the 
acid is much milder. These materials, with wine, and the 
various catsups, combined in various proportions, are, with 
other ingredients, made into almost an endless variety of 
excellent soups and gravies. 

Soups that are intended for the principal part of a meal 
certainly ought not to be flavored like sauces, which are only 
intended to give relish to some particular dish. 

STOCK 

6 lbs. of shin of beef, or 1 head of celery. 

6 lbs. of knuckle of veal. 2 oz. of salt. 
Bones, trimmings of poul- ^ teaspoonful of whole pep- 
try, or fresh meat. per. 

1 lb. of lean bacon or ham. 1 large blade of mace. 

2 oz. of butter. 1 bunch of savory herbs ex- 

2 large onions, each stuck cept sage. 

with cloves. 4 quarts and | pt. of cold 

1 turnip. water. 

3 carrots. 

Cut up the meat and bacon, or ham, into pieces of about 
three inches square; break the bones into small pieces, 
rub the butter on the bottom of the stewpan; put in one- 
half a pint of water, the broken bones, then meat and all 
other ingredients. Cover the stew-pan, and place it on a 
sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents. "When the bot- 
tom of the pan becomes covered with a pale, jelly-like sub- 
stance, add the four quarts of cold water, and simmer very 



SOUPS 5 

gently for five or six hours. As we have said before, do not 
let it boil quickly. When nearly cooked, throw in a table- 
spoonful of salt to assist the scum to rise. Remove every 
particle of scum whilst it is doing, and strain it through a 
fine hair sieve; when cool remove all grease. This stock 
will keep for many days in cold weather. 

Stock is the basis of many of the soups afterwards men- 
tioned, and this will be found quite strong enough for 
ordinary purposes. Keep it in small jars, in a cool place. 
It makes a good gravy for hash-meats ; one tablespoonf ul of 
it is sufficient to impart a fine flavor to a dish of macaroni 
and various other dishes. Good soups of various kinds are 
made from it at short notice ; slice off a portion of the jelly, 
add water, and whatever vegetables and thickening preferred. 
It is best to partly cook the vegetables before adding to the 
stock, as much boiling injures the flavoring of the soup. 
Season and boil a few moments and serve hot. 

WHITE STOCK 

"White stock is used in the preparation of white soups, and 
is made by boiling six pounds of a knuckle of veal, cut up 
in small pieces, poultry trimmings, and four slices of lean 
ham. Proceed according to directions given in "Stock," 
above. 

TO CLARirY STOCK 

Place the stock in a clean saucepan, set it over a brisk fire. 
When boiling, add the white of one egg to each quart of 
stock, proceeding as follows: beat the whites of the eggs up 
well in a little water; then add a little hot stock; beat to a 
froth, and pour gradually into the pot; then beat the whole 
hard and long; allow it to boil up once, and immediately 
remove and strain through a thin flannel cloth. 



6 SOUPS 

BROWN STOCK 

4 lbs. shin of beef or other 1 small head of celery. 

meat and bones. ^ teaspoonful of salt. 

4 carrots. i teaspoonful of peppercorns. 

1 turnip. 6 cloves. 

4 onions. 5 pints cold water. 

Cut up the meat and bones and place in the stock pot, 
pour over the water and skim when boiling. Prepare the 
vegetables and add. Cover closely and simmer four hours. 
The spices should be added with the vegetables. 

aUENELIES FOR CLEAR OR WHITE SOTJP 

Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan over a gentle fire, 
beat it up with a dessertspoonful of flour and a tablespoon 
of cream, so as to make a thick paste; add two ounces of 
boiled macaroni, two ounces of Parmesan cheese grated, a 
little salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Beat the mix- 
ture over the fire till smooth and firm and leaves the sides 
of the saucepan with the spoon. Mould it into quenelles 
with a teaspoon dipped in hot water, and then poach them 
in boiling gravy till they are done thoroughly ; lift them out 
with a skimmer, and put them into the tureen with the soup. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS 

Clean a bundle of asparagus, cut off tips and boil in 
salted water till soft; boil the stalks twenty minutes in a 
quart of good stock ; put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan 
with two ounces of flour, mix smoothly and pour in the hot 
stock, having previously pulped the asparagus through a 
sieve ; add one pint of milk ; boil up and skim ; put the tips 
in a tureen with a gill of cream; pour in the boiling soup; 
season with salt and pepper to taste, and serve. 



SOUPS 71 

WHITE SOUP 

Take a good-sized knuckle of veal, put it on to boil well 
covered with water, removing the scum as it comes to a boil ; 
boil till the meat comes freely from the bones, which remove, 
returning the bones into the pot and boil for another three- 
quarters of an hour, renewing the water when you see fit, 
so that it may not boil dry ; then strain all through a colan- 
der ; you will then have one and one-half quarts of soup. 
Set it away in a cool place, and the following day put it on 
to boil with a quart of milk and a piece of fresh butter the 
size of an egg. Put one-half teaspoonful of ground mace, 
ground red or white pepper, and salt to taste; when all 
comes to a boil have two and one-half tablespoonfuls of 
flour well blended in cold water, pour this into the boiling 
soup, then let it boil for three or four minutes; remove the 
pot from the stove; take the yolks of six eggs well beaten, 
put a little of the soup with the eggs and mix all together, 
then pour slowly into the soup, stirring it quietly all the 
while ; the eggs must not be added to the soup while boiling, 
as they will curdle; this makes a delicious soup when prop- 
erly made. If preferred, one-half pint of cream can be 
used instead of the butter. Half the quantity can be made 
by using half the ingredients. 

CARROT SOUP 

To each quart of stock allow twelve or thirteen ounces of 
pulped carrot, salt and cayenne to taste. 

Boil as many carrots as required (about four good-sized 
ones to each quart) till quite tender. Then cut up the red 
part and rub it through a sieve. Weigh it and add gravy 
soup or good stock in the above proportions; mix it gradu- 
ally and season with salt and a little cayenne. Let it boil 
up, and serve very hot, with a dish of fried bread cut into 
small squares. 



8 SOUPS 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

2 qts. stock. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

^ peck old peas. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

2 lettuce. A few sprigs of mint. 

1 onion. A little cucumber. 

Reserve one quart of stock and a teacupful of peas; put 
the rest of stock and all the vegetables together and simmer 
till quite tender, then press all through a sieve; add the 
remainder of the stock, let it come to the boiling point, and 
just before serving, if the soup is not very thick, add the 
butter and flour well mixed together. Boil the teacup of 
peas by themselves, put them in the tureen and pour the 
soup over them. Serve with a dish of toasted bread. 

HAEICOT BEAN SOTJP 

Two quarts of stock, one pint of haricot beans, pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Soak the beans all night in cold water, drain them and 
boil in cold water, slightly salted, till quite tender, about 
one and a half hours. Press them through a sieve with a 
spoon, and add them (leaving out the husks) to the stock, 
which should be warm; add pepper and salt to taste, boil 
up once more, and serve with a dish of fried bread cut into 
small squares. 

KIDNEY SOUP 

1 oz. butter. 3 qts. cold water. 

1 oz. flour. 1 tablespoonful Worcester 

^ oz. ground rice. sauce. 

Pepper and salt. 1 tablespoonful mushroom 

sauce. 

Cut the kidneys in thin slices, sprinkle with the ounce of 
flour, melt the butter, put in the kidney and brown. Then 



SOUPS 

pour in the water, stir till it boils, skim carefully and allow 
to simmer slowly for three hours. Put the one-half ounce 
of rice in a bowl with the sauces. "When mixed pour into 
the soup; stir well till it boils, then cook slowly for ten 
minutes and serve without the meat. Two large kidneys 
are sufficient for the above. 

KIDNEY SOUP 

1 oz, kidney. 1 tablespoonful Harvey sauce. 

1 qt. second stock. 1 oz. butter. 

1 tablespoonful mushroom 1 oz. flour of rice, 

catsup. Pepper and salt. 

Wash and pepper, and roll kidney into it, then put in pan 
with butter and brown quickly; add part of the stock and 
let it come to the boil and cook a few minutes; put in 
saucepan with the rest of the stock, and leave to simmer two 
hours. 

MOCK CLAM SOUP 

Cook a pint of marrowfat beans over night in water 
enough to cover them. In the morning drain and put them 
on the fire with a small onion and a gallon of cold water; 
boil until tender and strain. Add to the stock a little 
summer savory, two ounces of butter and a cup of cream or 
rich milk, season with salt and pepper. 

"When the soup comes to a boil, cut two slices of toast into 
dice, and four hard-boiled eggs in slices, put these in the 
tureen and pour the soup over and serve. 

POTATO SOUP 

One carrot, one onion, two large potatoes chopped fine. 
Boil, and put through a colander; then add pepper and 
salt to taste ; add a good sized piece of butter, and one quart 
of milk ; let come to a boil and serve. 



10 SOUPS 

POTATO SOUP 

To one quart of milk add two stalks of celery, one small 
onion and one bay leaf; put in a double saucepan and let 
come to the boil; strain, add a cup of mashed potatoes and 
a piece of butter the size of an egg; season with salt and 
pepper to taste; thicken with a little cornstarch and serve 
very hot. 

TURKISH SOUP 

1 qt. white stock. ^ teaspoonful pepper. 

1 gill cream. 2 tablespoonfuls sago or 

Yolks of two eggs. round tapioca. 

When stock is boiling put in the sago (soaked for half an 
hour) ; beat yolks with cream, and when sago boils for ten 
minutes, add a cup of soup gradually to cream and eggs, 
stirring all the time; put back on the stove and cook a few 
minutes, stirring all the time. 

TRIPE SOUP 

Cleanse the tripe thoroughly, slice in small pieces and 
plunge in boiling water. Kemove carefully, wash again in 
hot water, and if there are any spots black or red left, scrape 
with a knife. Put in a sauce-pan with plenty of water and 
a little vinegar and boil until tender. 

Break ten eggs in another dish, add salt and lemon-juice, 
beat thoroughly and stir into it a little of the boiling broth 
until danger of curdling is past; then add to the tripe and 
water, cook a moment longer and serve. 

SALMON SOUP 

1 cup cooked salmon. Salt and pepper to taste. 

1 pt. milk. 1 bay leaf. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 sprig parsley. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 1 slice onion. 



SOUPS 11 

Put milk in double boiler, and bay leaf, onion and pars- 
ley; let it come to scalding point, rub butter and flour to- 
gether, put into milk, stir till it thickens; remove flavor- 
ings, add salmon, which has been rubbed through a colander, 
stir until it becomes smooth, add salt and cayenne. Serve. 

TOISIATO BOUILLON 

1 can tomatoes. 4 whole cloves. 

1-^ qts. stock. 1 level teaspoonful oelery 

1 tablespoonful chopped seed. 

onion. Whites of 3 eggs. 

2 bay leaves. 2 tablespoonfuls salt. 

Put tomatoes and stock over fire, add onion, bay leaves, 
cloves, celery and pepper. Cover and cook twenty minutes. 
Strain through a sieve. Beat whites of eggs till partly light, 
add these to tomato, bring to boil and boil rapidly five 
minutes. Strain through two thicknesses of cheesecloth. 
Ee-heat, season with salt and serve with tiny cubes of 
toasted bread. 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 can tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 

1 qt. stock. 1 oz. flour, 

1 gill cream or milk. Pepper and salt. 

Boil together the stock and tomatoes for fifteen minutes, 
then rub them through a sieve; melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan, stir in flour and strained stock, boil two minutes; 
allow the boil to go off, then add cream, and do not allow 
it to boil again or the cream will curdle. 

TOMATO SOUP 

One quart of peeled tomatoes, to which add a pinch of 
soda, boil for one hour, or longer. Strain and return to 



12 SOUPS 

the fire and add one quart of hot boiled milk ; season with 
salt, pepper, and a small piece of butter; add three table- 
spoonfuls of rolled crackers and serve hot. Canned toma- 
toes may be used instead of fresh ones. 

w^ TOMATO PUREE 

1 'qt, canned tomatoes. 1 sprig parsley. 

1 pt. stock or water (stock 1 stick celery, 

is best). 6 peppercorns. 

1 bay leaf. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Simmer together until the tomato is thoroughly soft. In 
another saucepan put a tablespoonful of butter; when it is 
hot add a sliced onion, and fry, but not brown it ; then add a 
tablespoonful of flour, and cook, but not brown the flour. 
To this roux add enough of the tomato to dilute it, and then 
raix it well with the rest of the tomato, and season with 
salt. Pass the whole through a fine sieve or strainer. Heat 
it again before serving, and sprinkle over the top small 
croutons. 

TOMATO BISatJE SOUP 

1 qt. tomatoes. Butter size of an egg. 

3 pts. milk. 1 scant teaspoonful of soda. 

1 large tablespoonful of flour. Pepper and salt. 

Put tomatoes on to stew and the milk in a double boiler, 
reserving half a cup to mix the flour. Mix flour smoothly 
and stir in boiling milk and cook ten minutes. Add soda 
to tomato, stir well and strain, add butter, salt and pepper 
to milk and then the tomato. 

CREAM TOMATO SOUP 

1 can tomatoes. Butter size of egg. 

1 qt. water. 1 qt. milk. 

Salt and pepper. 1 teaspoonful soda. 



SOUPS 13 

Salt and pepper to taste. Cook tomatoes thoroughly in 
water; have milk scalding in a double boiler to prevent 
scorching. When tomatoes are done, add a large teaspoon- 
ful of soda, which will cause a violent effervescence. It is 
best to set vessel in a pan before adding soda, to prevent 
waste. When the commotion has ceased add milk and 
seasoning. 

CLEAR SOUP 

Heat a Jieaping tablespoonful of butter in a covered 
saucepan; slice into it a medium-sized onion; stir until the 
onion is browned; add two pounds of finely chopped lean 
raw beef, one quart cold water; cover closely and let it 
simmer three hours. Strain the soup, return to the kettle; 
add the white and shell of an egg, well beaten, with a little 
cold water; add also four peppercorns, teaspoonful of salt, 
two cloves and a blade of mace. Boil five minutes, then 
drain and serve from a hot tureen. 

ONION SOUP 

1 qt. milk. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

6 large onions. 1 cup of cream. 

Yolks of four eggs. Salt and pepper to taste. 
3 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Put butter in frying-pan, cut onion in thin slices and 
drop in butter; stir until they begin to cook, then cover 
tight and set back where they will simmer and not burn 
for one-half hour, then put milk on to boil; add the dry 
flour to onions, stir constantly over fire for three minutes; 
pour mixture into milk and cook for fifteen minutes ; strain ; 
season with salt and pepper and return soup to fire; beat 
yolks thoroughly, add them to the cream and stir into 
soup. Cook three minutes, stirring constantly. Pour over 
fried croutons in tureen and serve. 



14 SOUPS 

ONION SOUP 

Put one tablespoonful of butter in the frying-pan. "When 
hot add one finely chopped onion ; fry it until nicely browned, 
being careful not to burn. Put one quart of soup stock 
(made from odds and ends of cold meat) into a stew-pan; 
add the fried onion and cook for fifteen minutes. Strain; 
return to the fire, add one tablespoonful of flour wet in a 
little cold water, to thicken, and boil for five minutes longer. 
Season with one-half a teaspoonful of salt and one-quarter 
teaspoonful of pepper. Cut two slices of stale bread into 
dice; brown the dice in the oven, put them in the soup tu- 
reen, pour the soup over them and serve at once before they 
become soft 

GIBLET SOTJP 

Heat one quart of chicken stock. You can utilize for this 
the liquor in which a fowl has been boiled, or that in which 
the carcasses of cooked fowls have been boiled for hours, 
"When it boils, stir in the finely minced giblets of two fowls 
with a little chopped parsley, cook half an hour and thicken 
with two tablespoonfuls of brown roux. Season judiciously. 
This popular soup is made still better if force-meat balls of 
hard-boiled yolks, rubbed to a paste with a little butter, 
bound with a raw egg and rolled in browned flour, be 
dropped in one minute before the soup leaves the fire. 

GIBLET SOUP 

This soup is a great success and is very inexpensive, a 
plate of giblets only costing at market five cents. It is a 
very good imitation of mock turtle soup. The giblets of 
four chickens or two turkeys are required, one medium 
onion, one carrot, half a turnip, a few sprigs of parsley, all 
of which come in the ordinary soup bunch. Heat butter 
size of an egg in stew-pan, throw in the sliced onion, later 
the minced carrot and turnip; when tender and a light 



SOUPS 15 

brown, add the giblets, stirring in a tablespoonful of flour. 
Be careful to stir often that they do not burn. Now cut up 
giblets and put with vegetables into soup kettle with table- 
spoonful of salt, teaspoonful of pepper and three quarts of 
water, or stock in part, if you have it, or any chicken bones. 
Let this simmer slowly for three hours or more ; then strain 
it. Take all the livers, mash into them a tablespoonful of 
melted butter, tablespoonful browned flour; squeeze the 
juice of small lemon into this and add to the soup. Place 
in tureen yolks of three hard-boiled eggs cut in half-dozen 
pieces, pour over the soup ; serve. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

In summer soup should be light and appetizing, as few 
people desire rich food in any form at this season of the 
year. Many very excellent soups are made of vegetables, 
and the housekeeper can have her family partake daily of 
light, healthful soups at a small cost, which will be more 
acceptable than the usual meat and fish soups. Peel and 
slice two potatoes, parboil them in enough hot water to 
cover them. While they are cooking, chop two tomatoes, 
slice the corn off two ears of corn, and add one slice of 
onion, which you have saved from breakfast. Drain the 
potatoes, and put all on to cook in two quarts of cold w'ater. 
When done, rub all through a colander, return the soup to 
the pot, add a level tablespoonful butter, one teaspoon salt, 
one-half teaspoon pepper and one of minced parsley. If 
not thick enough, moisten a teaspoonful of flour with cold 
water, thin with the soup and stir in; let boil up once, and 
it is ready for the table. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

To one quart of common stock add one pint of parboiled 
mixed vegetables cut into small dice. Simmer until the 



16 iSOUPS 

vegetables are tender but not pasty. >Season with salt, 
pepper, and one teaspoonful of sugar. Serve without strain- 
ing. 

VEGETABLE PUKEE 

Ingredients. — Onions, carrots, potatoes (boiled first), 
beans of any kind, parsnips, celery, peas, leek, turnips ; cauli- 
flower, etc. 

Cut up a large plateful of any and all kinds of vegetables 
you happen to have — always having potatoes or beans for 
thickening. First, put into a saucepan a teacup of dripping 
or stock-fat, and when very hot add the sliced onions ; stir 
well to prevent them burning, and when they are red stir 
in a large spoonful of flour till it is of the same color. Now 
stir in a pint of hot water and some pepper and salt — mind 
not to add the pepper and salt at first, as the onions and 
flour would then more readily burn. Now add the rest of 
the vegetables, and let them simmer, adding more hot water 
as necessary, for two hours; then press them through a 
colander, return them to the range and let them simmer till 
the moment of serving. 

GUMBO SOUP 

Try out the fat of a slice of bacon, drain it off, and in it 
fry the slices of a large onion brown. Peel and cut up two 
quarts of fresh tomatoes, and cut thin one quart of okra. 
Put all together with a little chopped parsley (one tea- 
spoonful) in a stew kettle with three quarts of hot broth o£ 
any kind. Let it cook slowly for three hours. Season with 
a scant tablespoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of 
pepper. In the winter a large can of tomatoes and a can of 
okra may be used instead of the fresh vegetables. 

MARROWBALL SOUP 

Let piece of marrow, size of egg, melt slowly. When 
slightly cooled add one cup grated bread crumbs, yolk of 



SOUPS 17 

one egg, salt, nutmeg to flavor; mix well with little cold 
water. Take a teaspoonful, drop into boiling stock; do not 
cover the kettle; should the ball fall apart more bread 
crumbs should be added. Put the mixture in by the spoon- 
ful, and let boil slowly three minutes. 

CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP 

Boil one knuckle of veal or chicken or turkey bones in 
two quarts of cold water very gently for three hours; skim 
and strain. Wash a half cup of pearl barley in cold water ; 
cover it with the white broth you have just made. Cover 
the saucepan and cook very gently until the barley is tender. 
Then remove one-third of the barley, set aside, and rub the 
remaining portion through a sieve. Now place in the sauce- 
pan the whole barley grains, also the barley and stock you 
have passed through the sieve, add half a pint of boiling 
cream, season to taste with salt and pepper. Throw into the 
soup fifteen beef balls, boil up once and serve three balls to 
each person. 

CHICKEN BROTH 

Cut up the fowl and put it into the pot with four quarts 
of water (cold) ; stew until there are but three quarts left. 
Take out the chicken ; season the liquor and add a small cup- 
ful of rice. Cook rice tender. If you like you may add a 
cup of milk, and one or two beaten eggs just before serving. 
Stew, not boil, the chicken. 

CHICKEN AND CORN BROTH 

1 qt. stock (see below). 1 tablespoonful minced pars- 

1 can corn, chopped (or 8 ley. 

ears). 1 tablespoonful green onion 

1 tablespoonful butter in 1 tops. 

of flour. 1 cup boiling milk. 

Pepper and salt. 



18 SOUPS 

Even in the country, where old fowls must be disposed of 
in some way, it is seldom economical to boil them to pieces 
just to make soup. But if you will save the liquor in which 
these have been boiled the day before for the table, a de- 
lightful broth maj^ be made. One quart of the liquor cleared 
of fat after it is cold. Boil corn and liquor slowly 
together one hour after they begin to bubble. Rub 
thoroughly through a colander, season, and add herbs. 
Heat to boiling, stir in the floured butter, simmer five min- 
utes, pour into the tureen, and add the boiling milk. 

PLAIN CHICKEN SOUP 

1 fowl. 2 sticks celery, 

4 qts. water. 1 sprig parsley. 

1 cupful rice. Salt and pepper. 
1 slice onion. 

Place the fowl, cut into pieces, in a saucepan with four 
quarts of cold water; when it comes to the boiling-point, 
draw it aside and let it simmer for three hours; then add 
one thick slice of onion, two sticks of celery, one sprig of 
parsley, and one cupful of rice, and simmer for another 
hour; strain and let the soup stand until the grease can be 
taken off the top. Remove the meat, bones, and vegetables 
from the strainer, and press the rice through the sieve; stir 
this into the soup; season with salt and pepper, and heat 
again before serving; a little cream may also be added. 
This soup is also good thickened with a little roux or with 
cornstarch. For the latter, take two tablespoonfuls of the 
cold stock ; stir into it one tablespoonf ul of cornstarch ; then 
stir it into the soup, and let cook for ten minutes to take 
away the raw taste of the starch, and to make it clear. 
Pieces of the breast cut into dice may also be added. 



SOUPS 19 

CHICKEN BROTH 

1 fowl. ^ cupful of rice. 
4 qts. water (cold). Salt and pepper. 

Clean the fowl carefully ; wash it with a wet cloth ; cut it 
into pieces and remove the fat. Place the joints in a sauce- 
pan with a quart of water to each pound of fowl. Let it 
simmer until the meat is tender; then remove the breast; 
after four hours take it off and strain it through a sieve. 
Let the soup stand until the grease rises; then carefully re- 
move it, and put the soup again in the saucepan; add the 
breast of the chicken, cut into dice, and the half cupful of 
rice; salt and pepper to taste, and cook until the rice is 
tender. 

HIGHLAITDER'S DELIGHT 

2 lbs. veal and 3 lbs. of 1 carrot grated, 
bones from neck or 4 qts. cold water, 
knuckle of calf (well Bunch sweet herbs chopped, 
cracked). ^ cup barley. 

1 onion minced. Salt and pepper. 

1 turnip. 1 tablespoonful oatmeal. 

Put meat, cut into dice, bones, chopped vegetables, and 
herbs on in the water and boil very slowly six hours. Sea- 
son and set away in a cold place until next da3\ Take off 
the fat two hours before dinner, strain out the soup into a 
kettle and add the barley, which has been already soaked in 
warm water two hours, and cooked fifteen minutes in enough 
boiling water to cover it well. Put in with it the water in 
which it has been cooked, and simmer all together for half 
an hour. The oatmeal should have been soaked several 
hours in a little warm water. Stir it into the soup, and let 
all boil gently together for one hour before pouring out. 



20 SOUPS 

VERMICELLI OR SPAGHETTI SOUP 

Break the vermicelli or spaghetti into inch lengths, and 
cook tender and clear in boiling salted water. Drain this 
off; spread the vermicelli upon a dish and allow it to get 
almost cold, when drop into a quart of (cleared) boiling 
stock; let it just boil again, and serve. The pipe macaroni 
may be used in like manner, cut into quarter-inch lengths 
after it is cooked. 

CLEAR TAPIOCA SOUP 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca in a large cup of 
cold water four hours, then stir into a quart of well-sea- 
soned boiling clear stock, and simmer ten minutes. Pearl 
sago may be substituted for tapioca if desired, but should be 
soaked four hours in cold water, and one hour in hot, before 
it goes into the soup. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP 

1 calf's head and 2 feet. A little savory, thyme and 

2 veal cutlets. marjoram. 

1 pt. browned flour. 5 eggs boiled hard. 

5 onions. A few spices. 

1 lemon. 2 wineglasses port or sherry. 

One calf's head and two feet; boil in plenty of water 
until the bones will draw out. Boil two veal cutlets in the 
same water until tender for forcemeat balls. To the liquor 
then put brown flour, onions cut in thin slices and fried in 
butter with salt, pepper, and spices. Before skimming the 
soup put in savory, marjoram and thyme. Chop with the 
veal for balls a very little spice. Take the pieces of cheek 
which boil off the head and cut in little squares and add to 
soup. Boil four or five eggs hard. Chop the whites and 
put yolks whole in the soup. "When you serve the soup put 
in wine to taste, port or sherry, say two wineglasses, and 
slices of lemon, or squeeze and stir the juice in. 



SOUPS 21 

CLEAR BROWN SOUP 

Clear the stock as directed in recipe for Amber Soup, and 
stir in enough caramel to color it to your liking, bearing in 
mind that too much will give a sweetish taste to the liquid. 
The caramel is made by heating granulated sugar in a tin 
cup or agate iron saucepan until it bubbles brownly all 
over. Add, at once, boiling water, a tablespoonful for each 
spoonful of the sugar — and stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
It will keep well in the refrigerator for a week or more. 
Some palates enjoy the flavor of cloves and allspice in 
browned soup. The whole spices are used and strained out 
before the caramel goes in. Allow six cloves and four all- 
spice to a quart of stock. Onion flavor should be imparted 
by grating a raw onion and squeezing the juice through a 
cloth into the heating stock. 

CREAM OF TURNIP SOUP 

One quart of lamb or mutton broth. Two cups of turnip 
dice. Use white, young turnips. Cook in the liquor half 
an hour after the boil begins, and when very tender, rub 
through a colander. Return to the fire and proceed as with 
cream of celery soup, only putting in both white and yolk 
of the egg. 

CREAM OF LETTUCE SOUP 

Shred finely two heads of lettuce — the greener the better. 
Cook for half an hour in a quart of good stock, rub through 
a colander; return to the fire; stir into a cup of this two 
tablespoonfuls of white roux and a tablespoonful of cold 
boiled onion, minced fine, and one of minced parsley. Heat 
a cup of milk in another vessel, season with pepper and salt, 
stir in a well-whipped egg, and pour this mixture into the 
tureen, adding finally the lettuce soup. 



22 SOUPiS 

CREAM OF SORREI SOUP 

This is best when made from the more delicate species of 
sorrel, such as infests our flower-borders, but the commoner 
red sorrel of the farm can be used. 

SCOTCH BROTH 

1 qt. stock (see below). 1 tablespoonful minced pars- 

^ cup pearl barley or rice. ley. 

1 medium-sized onion minced. 2 tablespoonfuls white roux. 

Obtain the stock by boiling down the water in which a 
leg of mutton was cooked until you have half the original 
quantity. Or by boiling for eight hours the bones left from 
roast mutton, or the "trimmings" sent home by the butcher 
who prepared the roast and chops for the table. If raw 
meat and bones are used, allow one quart of water to each 
pound. Be careful to skim all the fat from the stock. 
Mutton-fat is tallow, unpalatable and indigestible. "Wash 
the barley or rice and soak in cold water one hour. Put the 
stock over the fire with the onion and bring to a rapid boil. 
Add the barley (or rice) and simmer for three-quarters of 
an hour; put in the parsley and cook five minutes more 
before stirring in. 

SCOTCH BROTH 

Two pounds of the scraggy part of a neck of mutton. 
Cut the meat from the bones, and cut off all the fat. Then 
cut meat into small pieces and put into soup pot with one 
large slice of turnip, two of carrot, one onion and a stalk 
of celery, all cut fine; half a cup of barley and three pints 
of cold water. Simmer gently two hours. On to the bones 
put one pint of water; simmer two hours and strain on the 
soup. Cook a tablespoonful of flour and one of butter to- 
gether until perfectly smooth, stir into the soup, and add 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Season with salt and 
pepper. 



SOUPS 83 

ENGLISH BARLEY BEOTH 

One quart of strong stock made by boiling the bones of a 
rib-roast, or steak well broken, with a pound of underdone 
beef for six hours. Or if raw meat is at hand, allow for a 
pound of chopped lean beef and the cracked cooked bones 
aforesaid, three pints of water and stew it down in four 
hours to one quart. (Let it get cold and take off the fat, of 
course). One onion, one carrot cut into dice, and one small 
turnip also cut up small. Half a cup of barley soaked for 
an hour, with minced parsley and sweet marjoram, pepper 
and salt to taste. 

Parboil the vegetables, drain them and put into the soup- 
kettle with the barley and the cold stock. Bring to a slow 
boil and keep this up for an hour, before the parsley goes in. 

CAULIFLOWER BROTH (WITHOUT MEAT) 

1 fine cauliflower. 2 blades of mace. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 qts. water, 
rubbed into one of corn- 2 cups milk, 
starch. Pepper and salt. 

1 onion. A pinch of soda in the milk. 

Bunch of parsley. 

Cut the cauliflower into bunches, reserving about a cupful 
of small clusters to put whole into the soup. Chop the rest, 
also the onion and herbs, and put on in the water, with the 
mace. Cook an hour, and rub through a colander. Return 
the puree thus obtained to the pot, and season with pepper 
and salt. As it boils, stir in the whole clusters, previously 
boiled tender in hot, salted water, and left to cool. When 
the soup is again hot, put in the butter and cornstarch ; stir 
until this has thickened ; pour into the tureen, and add the 
boiling milk. Pass sliced lemon and cream-crackers with it. 



24 SOUPS 

CORN CHOWDER 

12 ears of corn. 1 cup milk. 

2 onions sliced. 1 beaten egg. 

3 large potatoes parboiled. 1 qt. boiling water. 
6 Boston crackers well but- Parsley. 

tered and soaked five min- Pepper and salt, 
utes in hot water. A pinch of soda in the milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Fry the onions in two tablespoonfuls of butter in the 
soup-kettle. Remove this to the table and take out the 
onions with a skimmer, leaving the browned butter in the 
bottom. Put into this a layer of corn cut from the cob, 
then of crackers, next of sliced parboiled potatoes, seasoning 
as you go, until all the ingredients are in. Cover with the 
hot water, and cook gently for about forty minutes after it; 
begins to boil. Heat the milk in a separate vessel, stir into 
it a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour, and at last a 
beaten egg. Pour the milk into the tureen, then the chow- 
der, stirring all the while. This broth or chowder may be 
made in winter with canned corn, but is not nearly so good 
as when fresh is used. 

IIVER SOUP 

A palatable and inexpensive soup is made of one quart of 
stock, obtained by boiling four slices of corned lean ham, or 
a corned ham-bone, with a sliced onion, in two quarts of 
water until it is reduced one-half. Chop the "left-overs" 
of fried or stewed liver fine with a little ham, and add to the 
stock. Season to taste; thicken with a brown roux, and 
pour upon a handful of croutons in the bottom of the tu- 
reen. The heart, that usually comes with the liver, if boiled 
tender in the hamstock, may be minced and added. Any 
slices of fried breakfast bacon left in the pantry, if chopped 



SOUPS 25 

fine, will improve the flavor. If while on the look-out for 
"left-overs," you espy a cold boiled, fried, or poached egg 
on the shelf, mince it, and let it also go into the soup. Sea- 
son with pepper and minced parsley. You will be surprised 
to find how good the product of the hunt proves to be. 

RABBIT OR "OLD HARE" SOUP 

1 rabbit cut up. 1 teaspoouful of Worcester- 
I lb. salt pork minced fine. shire sauce. 
1 large onion, chopped. 1 tablespoonful tomato cat- 
1 stalk celery, chopped. sup. 
1 sprig parsley, chopped. 1 glassful brown sherry. 
1 gallon of water. Juice of ^ lemon. 
1 heaping tablespoonful 2 tablespoonfuls good drip- 
brown roux. pings. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 

Fry the onion in the dripping, and when lightly browned, 
add the pieces of rabbit, cover with cold water and cook 
very slowly for four hours, or until the meat is in rags. 
Season with salt and pepper. Let all get cold together. 
Skim off the fat; strain through a coarse cloth, return to 
the fire and when it boils thicken with the roux ; put in the 
catsup, wine, lemon-juice, and, if you fancy, a pinch of 
ground allspice. If not brown enough, color with a little 
caramel. 

MULLIGATAWNY SOUP 

One quart of chicken, veal, or calf's-head broth. One 
small onion, minced. A pinch of mace. Half a cupful of 
soaked rice. Juice of a lemon. One generous tablespoon- 
ful of brown roux. One teaspoonful of curry powder. Salt 
to taste. One teacupful of strained tomato-juice. 



20 SOUPS 

SPLIT-PEA OR BEAN SOUP 

1 cup split peas. 1 tablespoonful of flour. 

or 2 qts. of water. 

1 cup dried beans. ^ teaspoonful of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 

Let the peas or beans soak over night in three quarts of 
cold water. Put the soaked peas or beans into a saucepan 
with two quarts of water and a ham-bone, if you have it, 
otherwdse it may be omitted. Let simmer for four or five 
hours, or until the peas or beans are perfectly soft. (Add 
more water from time to time, if necessary.) Then pass 
them through a sieve; add to the pulp enough stock, or 
milk, or water to make a soup of the consistency of cream. 
Put it again into a saucepan on the fire ; season, and add a 
roux made of one tablespoonful of butter and one table- 
spoonful of flour cooked together; dilute the roux to smooth- 
ness with a little of the soup before adding it to the pot. 
The roux will hold the particles of peas or beans in suspen- 
sion. Without it they are liable to precipitate. An onion 
may be boiled with the pesas or beans if desired. Serve 
croutons on the soup, or pass them. 

CEEAM OF OYSTERS 

Scald a quart of oysters in their own liquor. Eemove the 
oysters; chop and pound them in a mortar, then press as 
much of them as possible through a puree sieve. Make a 
roux of one tablespoonful of butter and a heaping table- 
spoonful of flour. Dilute it with the oyster juice. Add the 
oyster pulp; season it with pepper, salt and paprica, and 
keep it hot until ready to serve. Just before serving add 
a half pint of whipped cream, and beat it well into the 
soup. 



SOUPS 27 

MUTTON BROTH 

The neck or shoulder-pieces may be used for broth. The 
meat should be cut into pieces and the fat removed. To 
each pound of meat add one quart of cold water ; simmer for 
four or five hours ; strain it iijto an earthen bowl ; when ready 
to serve, remove the grease, and add to each quart of stock 
one stick of celery, two tablespoonfuls of rice, salt and pep- 
per to taste, and boil until the rice is soft. The water in 
which a leg of mutton has been boiled will make a good 
mutton soup, but is not rich enough for a broth to be served 
to an invalid. 

BKOTH MADE QUICKLY FOE INVALIDS 

Broth may be made quickly by chopping lean meat to a 
fine mince. To a pound of meat add one pint of cold 
water; let soak for fifteen minutes; then let slowly boil for 
half an hour; season and strain. 

CALF'S-HEAD OR MOCK-TURTLE SOUP 

]\Iake a brown roux by putting in a saucepan one table- 
spoonful of butter, let it brown, add two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and let that brown ; then add, slowly at first, one and a 
half or two quarts of water in which a calf's head has been 
boiled, white wine instead of vinegar being used in the boil- 
ing. Add three or four strained tomatoes and simmer for 
one-half hour. Skim off any fat and season with salt and 
pepper. Add some pieces of boiled calf's head cut in pieces 
one-half inch square, a few egg balls, two or three table- 
spoonfuls of sherry, and a few very thin slices of lemon. 

OYSTER SOUP 

Scald a quart, or twenty-five, oysters in their own liquor. 
As soon as they are plump, or the gills curl, remove them 



28 SOUPS 

(oysters harden if boiled). Add to the liquor a cupful of 
water. Make a roux of one tablespoonful each of butter 
and flour, dilute it with the liquor, and when it is smooth add 
a cupful of scalded milk or cream. Season with pepper, 
salt, if necessary, and a dash of cayenne or paprica; then 
add the oysters, and as soon as they are heated serve at once. 
In oyster houses finely shredded cabbage with a French 
dressing is served with oyster soup, and is a good accompani- 
ment when served for luncheon. Oysters should be carefully 
examined, and the liquor passed through a fine sieve before 
being cooked, in order to remove any pieces of shell there 
may be in them, 

OYSTEH SOUP 

1 knuckle veal. 2 or 3 celery leaves, 

1 small onion, ^ pt, cream. 

2 blades mace. ^ pt. milk. 

2 small red peppers. 1 qt. oysters. 

Boil veal with onion, mace, peppers, celery leaves and salt 
to taste, in four quarts of water, adding more water till the 
meat is boiled to shreds. Strain and set the liquor to cool. 
When cold skim off every particle of fat, and leave behind 
any grounds that may be at the bottom of the jelly, which 
should be firm. Put the jelly over the fire; when boiling 
add cream and milk; thicken with flour previously blended 
to the consistency of cream, or oyster crackers powdered. 
Stir till the soup is thickened, then add the oysters, stirring 
constantly for three or four minutes. A small knuckle of 
veal should make about three quarts of strong jelly. 

CLAM SOUP 

Eemove the clams from the shells as soon as they have 
opened. Put them in a warm place, until the juice is pre- 
pared. Add a cupful of hot milk to a quart of juice, and 



SOUPS 29 

thicken it with a roux made of one tablespoonful of butter 
and one tablespoonful of flour; then add the clams, chopped 
fine, season, and bring the soup again to the boiling-point 
and serve. Two spoonfuls of whipped cream served on each 
plateful of soup is an improvement to the dish. 

CONSOMME 

4 lbs. shin of beef. Bouquet of herbs. 

4 lbs. knuckle of veal. 1 tablespoonful of salt. 

4 qts. of water (cold). 3 onions. 

2 oz. lean ham or bacon. 1 carrot. 

6 cloves. 1 turnip. 

6 peppercorns. 2 sprigs of parsley, 

2 stalks of celery. 3 eggs (whites and shells). 

Bind and juice of one lemon. 

Wipe and cut the meat and bones into small pieces. Put 
the marrow, bones, and part of the meat in the kettle, with 
four quarts of cold water. Heat slowly; cut the onions 
and vegetables fine, and fry them in the ham fat or in 
drippings, then brown the remainder of the meat. Add 
onions, meat, herbs, spices and vegetables. Simmer until 
the meat is in rags ; it will take about seven hours. Strain, 
and when cold remove the fat and add the whites and 
shells of the eggs, lemon and salt and pepper, if needed. 
When well mixed heat it, and boil ten minutes. Strain 
through fine strainer, and heat again to the boiling point 
before serving. Serve clear, or with wine or lemon. It 
should be of a light brown or straw color, 

OX-TAIL SOUP 

1 ox tail, 3 onions, 

2 lbs. lean beef. Thyme. 

4 carrots. 4 qts. cold water. 



30 SOUPS 

Cut the tail into several pieces and fry brown in butter. 
Slice the onions and carrots, and when you remove the ox- 
tail from the frying-pan, put in these and brown also. 
When done tie them in a bag with a bunch of thyme and 
drop into a soup pot. Lay the pieces of ox-tail in the same, 
then the meat cut into small slices. Grate over them the 
two whole carrots, and add four quarts of cold water with 
pepper and salt. Boil four to six hours, in proportion to 
the size of the tail. Strain fifteen minutes before serving, 
and thicken with two tablespoonfuls of browned flour. 
Boil ten minutes longer. 

DUCHESS SOUP 

One pint white stock, one pint brown stock, salt and cay- 
enne, four tea spoonfuls rice-flour. Strain and pour over 
well beaten yolks of two eggs. Soup must not be allowed 
to boil after this. Before serving add half a cup of 
whipped cream. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

1 pt. milk. 1 small onion. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. A little mace. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 1 cup of whipped cream. 
Long stalks of 3 heads of cel- 
ery. 

Boil onion, celery and mace from thirty to forty min- 
utes. Mix flour with two tablespoonfuls of cold milk and 
add to boiling milk; cook ten minutes; mash the celery in 
the water it was boiled in and stir in boiling milk ; add 
butter and season with salt and pepper to taste; strain, 
and serve immediately. "Whip a cup of cream and add to 
soup after it is in the tureen. 



SOUPS 31 

CREAM OF CELERY SOTJP 

Pint of milk, thickened with flour and cornstarch, a dash 
of red pepper, a slice of onion, a blade of mace; boil to- 
gether; add a head of celery previously cut in pieces, boiled 
and mashed, in salted water in which boiled. When well 
blended strain; add lump of butter; stir over fire till 
blended. If very special add a cupful of whipped cream 
after soup is dished in very hot tureen. [This soup should 
be made, as all other milk soups, in double boiler. — Ed.] 

PEANUT SOUP 

One quart of rich milk, one large cupful of peanuts, 
measured after they have been shelled and skinned. Put 
milk on to cook in a double boiler; add salt to taste, and 
season highly with black and red pepper. Add the peanuts, 
which have been put through a meat chopper two or three 
times until they are ground fine. Cook twenty or thirty 
minutes. Just before taking from the fire add a cupful of 
cream. Strain. 

MILK POTATO SOUP 

Heat one pint of milk, thicken it with one tablespoonful 
of fiour and one tablespoonful of butter; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a little pepper, quarter of a teaspoonful 
of onion juice, two large potatoes; mash and strain. 

VEAL SOUP 

Put a knuckle of veal into three quarts of water, a little 
salt and one tablespoonful of rice, boil slowly, hardly above 
simmering, until liquor is reduced one-half; remove from 
the fire. Into a dish put the yolk of one egg ; stir well into 
it a cup of cream ; add a piece of butter the size of a hickory 
nut. Into this strain the soup boiling hot, stirring all the 
time; just at last beat well for one minute. 



32 SOUPS 

MUSHROOM SOUP 

One-half pound fresh mushrooms; remove the stock and 
mash mushrooms, chop them fine with a silver knife. Put 
on fire, melt one quart good chicken stock, cover and simmer 
gently for thirty minutes, add one teaspoon salt and sim- 
mer ten minutes longer; put two tablespoons butter in a 
saucepan, add (dry) three tablespoons flour; cook one 
minute; add one-half pint cream to your mushrooms, and 
add by degrees to your butter and flour, with care to keep 
good thickness, smooth; stir till it comes to a boiling point; 
add a dash of white pepper. For luncheon serve in cups. 

DAHL SOUP 

One-half pint of dahl, washed, three pints of cold water; 
let it stand two hours. Then add two small heads of cel- 
ery, or one teaspoonful of celery seed tied in a muslin bag, 
one blade mace, one-half dozen peppercorns, one onion, 
one ounce butter and one of flour mixed together; pepper 
and salt. Serve with toasted dice-bread. 



SOUPS 33 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



34 SOUPS 

, WRITTEN RECIPES 



SOUPS 35 

WRITTEN KECIPES 



36 SOUPS 

WRITTEN BECIPES 



PISH 

Dress fish as quickly as possible after they are taken 
from the water. Wash and rub the inside with salt. Do 
not soak in water long, as the flesh is apt to become flabby. 
Lard and butter in equal quantities is better for frying 
fish than butter alone. Frozen fish should be put in cold 
water to draw out the frost. Add a little vinegar to the 
water in which salt fish is soaked. Soak salt fish in sour 
milk to freshen them. Pour vinegar over fresh fish to make 
the scales come off easily. 

Fish can be improved in flavor by rubbing with vinegar 
or adding one-half cup of vinegar to the water in which it 
is boiled. Fish, when prepared for the table, should never 
be laid double, if it can be avoided, as the steam from the 
under layer makes the upper layer so soft as to break eas- 
ily. They must be cooked until the flesh separates easily 
from the bones. By running a knife in a little way, say 
under the fins, so as not to spoil the appearance of the fish, 
this can be judged of. 

All kinds of cooked fish can be served with salads. Let- 
tuce is the best green salad to serve, but all cooked and cold 
vegetables go well with fish. Whatever the method of cook- 
ing, apply great heat at first to sear the outside and prevent 
the escape of the juices, except for a soup or chowder. 

To scale a fish hold it by the tail under water (which is 
salted) in a deep pan, and with a small, sharp knife held 
slanting, scrape the scales from the tail toward the head. 
The scales will come off easier under water and will fall to 
the bottom of the pan instead of fiying about. Wipe the 
fish on an old soft towel and lay it on a board or a large 

37 



88 FISH 

platter. Cut off the head and tail, and if it is to be broiled 
split it down the back. This is done by passing the knife 
one side of and close to the backbone, from the head to the 
tail, cutting carefully until the entrails are reached. Re- 
move them carefully and scrape the inside of the fish and 
all the blood from the backbone. If preferred, the back- 
bone can be removed entirely. "Wipe the fish inside and out 
with a cloth wrung out of salted water, lay it on a dish and 
keep it in a cool place until wanted. For baking or frying, 
the fish may be opened down the body. 

The only secret in boning is to hold the knife close to the 
bone, scraping away every particle of flesh. To remove the 
skin, loosen it with a knife around the head and pull quickly 
toward the tail. If the fingers are dipped in salt occasion- 
ally it will give them a firmer grip on the slipping fish. 
This will be done in the market if the purchaser so directs. 
In freshening salt fish lay it in the water skin-side up. 
Baking, boiling, frying, broiling and steaming are the 
standard methods of cooking fish. 

BROILED FISH 

Broiling is assuredly the oldest method of cooking, and no 
new one surpasses it. The skin of small or thin fish serves 
to keep them in shape. Slices of halibut or salmon may be 
broiled whole, or the skin and bone removed and cut in fil- 
lets. Clean and split the fish. Rub a double broiler with 
suet, lay the fish, flesh side down, on and set over the fire ; 
turn until both sides are brown. When done take up care- 
fully on a heated dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
spread with butter and serve. 

BOILED riSH 

This is thought to be the most delicate of all, but on ac- 
count of its slippery skin and gelatinous consistency, it is 



FISH 39 

hard to boil it so that its appearance will gratify the eye. 
To attain the best results, several rules are to be remem- 
bered and observed. First, the fish must be weighed. Sec- 
ond, it must be carefully bound up in thin muslin; coarse 
cheese-cloth is excellent for the purpose. Third, the kettle 
must be large enough to accommodate the fish easily, and 
the water must be well salted first, or the flakes will have a 
tendency to separate. Fourth, the water must be at boiling 
point, but not boiling when the fish is put in, and should 
be in sufficient quantity to fully cover it, but not in excess, 
or the flavor will be washed away. For a large fish, add 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar to the water. Fifth, keep 
the water boiling, and allow six minutes to each pound, and 
if the fish is large, add six minutes to the computation; for 
instance, make the thirty-six minutes due a six-pounder, 
forty-two minutes. Never stab a fish with a fork or skewer 
to find if it is done, but see that the water boils steadily and 
does not stop for an instant. If the water boils turbulently, 
the kettle must be moved to a part of the stove where it can 
have a less fierce heat, as too much agitation of the water 
will cause it to crumble. A fish boiler is best to use. Serve 
with drawn-butter ,and hard-boiled eggs sliced. Garnish 
also with parsley and sliced lemons. Some like tomato cat- 
sup poured over the fish, without the eggs and lemons. 

BAKED FISH 

Procure a fish of three or four pounds, season with one 
heaping tablespoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper. 
Kub the seasoning well in and outside the fish ; place the fish 
with two sliced onions on a large dish; sprinkle over the 
juice of one large lemon; cover and set aside for one hour, 
then lay the fish in a baking-pan with four thin slices of pork 
under it, and three slices of pork on top. Pour one table- 
spoonful of melted butter over and bake forty-five minutes. 
Serve in a hot dish garnished with lemon cut into quarters, 



40 FISH 

and parsley. It can be baked without the onion or lemon, 
but these improve its flavor. If salt pork is not at hand, 
grease the pan thoroughly with lard and lay a sheet of nice 
brown paper, cut to the size of the pan, in the bottom. 
Grease the paper thoroughly and lay the fish upon it. 
Baked in this way, it can easily be taken from the pan 
without breaking it at all, and the trouble of cleaning the 
pan afterwards, which is not a little when the baking is 
done in the usual manner, is entirely avoided. 

MODES OF FRYING 

The usual custom among professional cooks is to entirely 
immerse the article to be cooked in boiling fat, but from in- 
convenience most households use the half-frying method of 
frying in a small amount of fat in a frying-pan. For the 
first method a shallow iron frying-kettle, large at the top 
and small at the bottom, is best to use. The fat should 
half fill the kettle, or an amount sufficient to float whatever 
is to be fried ; the heat of the fat should get to such a degree 
that, when a piece of bread or a teaspoonful of the batter 
is dropped in it, it will become brown almost instantly, but 
should not be so hot as to burn the fat. Some cooks say 
that the fat should be smoking, but my experience is, that 
is a mistake, as that soon ruins the fat. As soon as it be- 
gins to smoke it should be removed a little to one side, and 
still be kept at the boiling point. If fritters, crullers, cro- 
quettes, etc., are dropped into fat that is too hot, it crusts 
over the outside before the inside has fully risen, making a 
heavy hard article, and also ruining the fat, giving it a 
burnt flavor. 

Many French cooks prefer beef fat or suet to lard for 
frying purposes, considering it more wholesome and digesti- 
ble, does not impart as much flavor, or adhere or soak into 
the article cooked as pork fat. 



FISH 41 

In families of any size, where there is much cooking re- 
quired, there are enough drippings and fat remnants from 
roasts of beef, skimming from the soup-kettle, with the addi- 
tion of occasionally a pound of suet from the market, to 
amply supply the need. All such remnants and skimmings 
should be clarified about twice a week, by boiling them all 
together in water. When the fat is all melted, it should be 
strained with the water and set aside to cool. After the 
fat on the top has hardened, lift the cake from the water on 
which it lies, scrape off all the dark particles from the 
bottom, then melt over again the fat; while hot strain into 
a small clean stone jar or bright tin pail, and then it is 
ready for use. Always after frying anything, the fat should 
stand until it settles and has cooled somewhat ; then turn off 
carefully so as to leave it clear from the sediment that 
settles at the bottom. 

The second mode of frying, using a frying-pan with a 
small quantity of fat or grease, to be done properly, should 
in the first place have the frying-pan hot over the fire, and 
the fat in it actually boiling before the article to be cooked 
is placed in it, the intense heat quickly searing up the pores 
of the article and forming a brown crust on the lower side, 
then turning over and browning the other the same way. 

Still, there is another mode of frying ; the process is some- 
what similar to broiling, the hot frying-pan or spider re- 
placing the hot fire. To do this correctly, a thick bottom 
frying-pan should be used. Place it over the fire, and when 
it is so hot that it will siss, oil over the bottom of the pan 
with a piece of suet, that is, if the meat is all lean ; if not, it 
is not necessary to grease the bottom of the pan. Lay in the 
meat quite flat, and brown it quickly, first on one side, then 
on the other ; when sufficiently cooked, dish on a hot platter 
and season the same as broiled meats. 



42 FISH 

DKESSING FOR FRIED FISH, OYSTERS OR CUTLETS 

Soda biscuits, seasoning, eggs. Roll biscuits (if a bottle 
is used for this it will be found to roll the biscuits as fine as 
flour), add seasoning, pepper and salt for fish and oysters; 
for cutlets, thyme, sweet marjoram and summer savory. 
Beat eggs, dip oysters or any fry in them, roll in seasoned 
cracker crumbs, and fry in butter or lard. 

CANAPEES OF SARDINES 

Sardines, the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs, a 
little butter, mustard, pepper, and vinegar, slices of toast. 

Take some slices of roll and cut them neatly into oval or 
octagon shapes. Toast them slightly, or fry them in oil or 
butter till they are of a nice yellow color. Take some sar- 
dines and strip them from the bones; lay one-half of them 
aside, and pound the other to a smooth paste with the eggs 
and butter. Add the mustard, pepper and vinegar. When 
these ingredients are well mixed, spread the paste over the 
prepared slices of toast. On the top lay the other half of 
the sardines, cut into small strips, stand them in a Dutch 
oven before the fire and serve very hot. 

SARDINES ON TOAST 

Sardines, cayenne, and lemon-juice. 

Scrape and bone the sardines, lay them on a plate; 
sprinkle them with lemon-juice and a little cayenne pepper. 
Stand them in the oven until thoroughly hot; have ready 
some neat slices of hot-buttered toast; lay the sardines on 
these and serve at once. 

This dish may be varied by spreading the toast with an- 
chovy paste before laying on the sardines. 

SARDINES AU GRATIN 
Lift each fish carefully from the oil in which it was put 
up, hold suspended for a moment to let most of the oil drip 



FISH 43 

from it, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice upon it and roll 
in very fine, peppered cracker-dust. Lay upon a buttered 
tin, or stoneware plate, and brown lightly upon the upper 
grating of a quick oven. Pass crackers, heated and but- 
tered, and sliced lemon with them. They are a good 
luncheon or supper dish. 

SARDINE SAVOY 

Cut three slices of bread a little larger than the size of a 
sardine, fry a delicate brown on both sides, place a sardine 
on each and make them hot in the oven. Pour over them 
the following sauce: Beat up two eggs and mix with a 
quarter ounce of butter, one teaspoon Tarrago vinegar, 
quarter teaspoon made mustard, salt to taste, and a little 
Worcester sauce. Put these in a small saucepan and stir 
over the fire until it thickens (not boils). 

ANGELS ON HORSEBACK 

Twelve oysters, twelve round croutons; twelve pieces of 
bacon two inches long and one-half inch wide. Beard and 
trim each oyster and put one on each piece of bacon, squeeze 
on each a drop of lemon juice and a very little cayenne, and 
roll it up in the bacon. Cook it in a brisk oven (long 
enough to cook the bacon) and serve very hot, dished on 
watercress. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Drain and wipe fine large oysters, dip each first in 
cracker-dust (peppered and salted), then in beaten egg, and 
again in the cracker, and arrange upon a large cold platter. 
Set upon ice for half an hour and fry in butter that has 
been gradually brought to a boil. Cook a few at a time, 
and if the crumbs come off in the fat, strain them out before 
the next instalment goes in. 



44 FISH 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Cover the bottom of a greased bake-dish with oysters, and 
the oysters with fine cracker-crumbs. Sprinkle these with 
pepper, salt, and bits of butter ; then lay in more oysters and 
go on in this order until all are in. The top layer should be 
of crumbs and well buttered. Pour over each layer of 
oysters as it goes in, a few spoonfuls of oyster liquor, and 
upon the crumbs the same quantity of cream. Bake, cov- 
ered, in a quick oven until hot all through, uncover and 
brown lightly. Serve with sliced lemon. You may fill 
clam-shells, or silver or china scallop shells in like manner. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Scald a quart of oysters in their own liquor till plump; 
drain and place to keep warm ; sauce of one tablespoon each 
of butter and flour; one cup of hot milk and oyster liquor 
each; heat in a pan two teaspoons of butter, and brown six 
tablespoons of bread crumbs, put three tablespoons of 
chopped celery in the bottom of a bake dish, then the white 
sauce flavored with salt and pepper to taste, lastly the 
crumbs on top. Place in oven and heat thoroughly; serve 
very hot. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Pick over, rinse, drain, and dry the oysters, which should 
be of fair size. Break an egg into a saucer; add a table- 
spoonful of warm water and beat just enough to mix. Have 
ready in a bowl a quantity of fine bread-crumbs. Drop each 
oyster in the beaten egg, then into the crumbs, and lay in a 
buttered dish. When the bottom of the dish is covered with 
the oysters sprinkle over them a little salt and pepper, a few 
drops of onion-juice and a tablespoonful of chopped celery. 
Fill the dish in the same order; put over the top one table- 
spoonful of butter; cut into pieces; pour over one-half of a 
cupful of thin cream and bake about twenty-five minutes in 



FISH 45 

a hot oven. This amount will be sufficient for thirty 
oysters. 

CURRIED OYSTERS 

2 doz. oysters. 1 dessertspoonful of flour. 

1 onion. 2 oz. of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of curry. Juice of a lemon. 

Chop the onion up quite fine, mix the curry-powder, flour 
and butter together, and put all these ingredients into a 
stew-pan, and simmer till of a nice brown, stirring all the 
time; add the liquor of the oysters and the lemon-juice, and 
boil together for five minutes. Put in the oysters, boil up 
once, and serve with a dish of rice. 

KEBOBBED OYSTERS 

50 oysters. celery. 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped 2 eggs. 

parsley. 1 pt. bread-crumbs. 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped Butter, salt and pepper. 

First drain oysters. Beat two eggs and add to them a 
tablespoonful of oyster liquid. Put on a board a pint of 
bread-crumbs. Have at your left side an ordinary baking- 
dish. Lift the oysters by the muscular part, dip them in 
egg, then in bread-crumbs, and put them at once in the 
bottom of the baking-dish. Sprinkle over half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a dash of pepper, a sprinkling of parsley and 
celery; then dip and put in another layer of oysters, etc., 
until all are used. Cut small pieces of butter over the top 
and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Serve in the dish in which they were baked. These are 
much better than scalloped oysters, and make a very ac- 
ceptable luncheon dish. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

Put three or four oysters in a glass (small lemonade 
glass), mix cayenne, lemon-juice and tomato sauce, also put 



46 FISH 

a few drops of tobasco sauce (very little). Let all stand 
in glasses, on ice, for about three hours. Serve glasses on 
small plate and watercress around the glasses, 

OYSTER COCKTAIL 

(For Twelve Persons.) 
60 small oysters. 5 tablespoonfuls of AVorces- 

3 tablespoonfuls of fine tershire sauce, 

grated horseradish. 3 tablespoonfuls of tomato 

1 teaspoonful of tobasco catsup. 

sauce. IJ teaspoonfuls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

Clean and chill oysters; mix with sauce and serve in 
sherry glasses, in grape-fruit or lemon shells, or in tomato 
cups. If fresh tomatoes are not at hand cups may be 
shaped from tomato jelly. 

DRESSING FOR OYSTER COCKTAIL 

Juice of four lemons, two tablespoonfuls onion juice, six 
tablespoonfuls tomato catsup, four tablespoonfuls grated 
horseradish, ten drops of tobasco, one small teaspoonful salt ; 
add sufficient vinegar to make a thin sauce. 

FISH LEFT OVER 

Make one cup tomato sauce by cooking one teaspoonful 
of minced onion in one teaspoonful of butter until it is yel- 
low; add a level tablespoonful of flour and when well mixed 
and bubbling, stir it into a cup of hot stewed tomatoes. 
When it has cooked a little and is thick, season to taste. 
Take one part each of cold boiled fish and macaroni with 
one-quarter cup of cheese; cut into small bits one cold egg. 
Strain the tomato sauce over them and one-quarter cup of 
fine cracker crumbs, moistened in one-third cup of melted 
butter on the top. Bake till brown. 



FISH 47 

BAKED FISH 
Take any cold boiled fish, free from bones (canned salmon 
will do), pour over it a cup or more of cream or milk mixed 
with a little flour, butter, pepper, and salt. Put small bits 
of butter on top, and bake one-half hour. Cracker crumbs 
are an improvement. 

SOLES IN BATTER 

1 pair of soles (not thick). | lb. flour. 
Pepper and salt. 2 oz. butter. 

Lard or drippings for fry- ^ teaspoonful sail 

ing. 2 eggs. 

Batter : Milk to mix it. 

Fillet the soles, and cut each fillet in two pieces, that 
they may not be too large, and sprinkle them with pepper 
and salt. Make a light batter with the above ingredients, 
taking care that it is not verj^ thin; dip each piece of fish 
into this, and fry quickly in boiling fat to a golden brown. 
Arrange them in a circle, one overlapping the other, on a 
hot dish, and garnish with fresh or fried parsley. They are 
best served as soon as cooked. Melted butter may be sent 
to table with them in a tureen, if liked. 

BAKED COD 

Middle part of large fresh (parsley, marjoram and 

cod, or small whole one. thyme). 

1 teacup of breadcrumbs A suspicion of onion, 
peppered and salted. 1 tablespoonful of Harvey's 

2 tablespoonfuls of chop- sauce, or anchovy. 

ped salt pork. | teacup of melted butter. 

1 tablespoonful of herbs Juice of half a lemon. 

1 beaten egg. 

Lay the fish in cold, salted water for half an hour, then 
■wipe it dry, and stuff it with a force-meat, made of crumbs, 
pork, herbs, onions and seasoning, bound with the beaten 



48 FISH 

€gg. Lay it in the baking-dish, and pour over it the melted 
butter, which should be quite thin, seasoned with the sauce, 
lemon-juice, pepper, and a pinch of parsley. Bake in a 
moderate oven for an hour, or longer, if the piece is large, 
basting frequently, lest it should brown too fast. Add a 
little butter and water if the sauce thickens too much. 
When the fish is done, rem.ove it to a hot dish, strain the 
gravy over it, and serve. A few capers or chopped green 
pickles are considered a pleasant addition to the sauce. 

SALT CODFISH BALLS 

Cover six pared or quartered potatoes with boiling water. 
Put a cupful of picked codfish above the potatoes and cook 
until tender, drain, mash and season to taste. Add a beaten 
egg and beat the mixture until light; shape into smooth, 
light balls, fry in beef fat, smoking hot ; drain carefully and 
serve at once. 

CREAMED CODFISH (SALT) 

Soak all night, changing the water several times and 
having the last bath quite hot. Boil tender in hot water 
with a tablespoonful of vinegar. Take out the bones while 
hot, and let it cool before picking or shredding it into fine 
flakes. Heat a cupful of milk, stir into it a tablespoonful 
of butter rolled in one of flour, cook until it thickens well, 
take from the fire and add two beaten eggs. When these 
are well mixed, add the shredded fish, and cook two minutes, 
stirring steadily. A tablespoonful of minced parsley is an 
improvement, also a little lemon-juice. Season with cay- 
enne or paprica. Serve hot. 

CREAMED CODFISH 

Pick one cup of fish fine, then freshen in cold water ; bring 
just to a boil, then drain; then take one cupful of good 
cream and one cupful of milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour; 



FISH 49. 

make smooth with some of the milk; add one tablespoonful 
of butter and more salt if necessary. 

CODFISH IN CEEAM 

Shred and soak half a cup of salted codfish over night. 
In the morning drain, place in a stew-pan, cover with cold 
water; when it boils, drain; cover again with water and 
simmer gently for fifteen minutes ; add one cup of rich milk. 
Rub one spoonful of flour smooth in one spoonful of butter ; 
add to the codfish; mince one hard-boiled egg, stir into the 
mixture ; add a pinch of pepper and a teaspoonf ul of minced 
parsley. Boil up once. 

CUTLETS OF COD OR SALMON 

Three pounds of fish cut in slices three-quarters of an 
inch thick from the body of the fish, a handful of fine bread- 
crumbs, with which should be mixed pepper and salt, and a 
little mixed parsley and one egg, beaten light. Enough 
butter, lard, or dripping to fry the cutlets. 

Cut each slice of fish into strips, as wide as your two 
fingers, then dry them with a clean cloth, rub lightly with 
salt and pepper, dip in the egg, then the breadcrumbs, and 
fry in enough fat to cover them well. Drain away every 
drop of fat, and lay upon hot white paper in a heated dish. 

CODFISH BALLS 

The purified, shredded codfish, to be bought by the box 
from any grocer, is best for these. Soak it for two or three 
hours, then boil for fifteen minutes in water that has had a 
tablespoonful of vinegar stirred into it, and spread upon a 
sieve to get cold. Allow to each cupful of fish half as much 
mashed potato whipped to a soft cream. Mix them together 
well, make very hot over the fire and beat in a frothed egg 
for every cupful of fish. Season with pepper. Let the mix- 
ture get quite cold, make into balls, roll in flour, and set in 



50 FISH 

a cold place to stiffen. If you wish them for breakfast you 
will do well to make them the night before. Roll again in 
flour and fry in deep fat to a yellow-brown. 

SALT COD WITH EGG SAUCE 

1 lb. salt cod soaked, boiled 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

and picked up very fine. Little chopped parsley. 
1 small cup milk or cream. Half as much mashed potato 

1 teaspoonful flour. as fish. 

2 eggs beaten light. Pepper to taste. 

Heat the milk, thicken with the flour, then the potato 
rubbed very fine; next, the butter, the eggs, and parsley; 
lastly the fish. Stir and toss until smoking hot all through, 
when pour into a deep dish. 

Or, make a sauce of all the ingredients except the fish and 
potato. Mix these well together with a little melted butter, 
heat in a saucepan, stirring all the while ; heap in the centre 
of a dish and pour the sauce over all. 

SALMON WITH POACHED EGG 

Stamp out the required number of rounds of bread an 
inch thick, cut the centres out of these, leaving a case with a 
narrow rim. Brush over the outsides of cases with melted 
butter and brown in oven; fill the space in the centre with 
canned salmon flaked and heated in a cup of cream sauce; 
lay a poached egg above the salmon ; serve garnished with 
parsley and sliced lemon. (These are good even without 
the eggs.) 

MOULDED SALMON 

1 lb. of cold salmon. 1 tablespoonful of fine bread 

2 eggs beaten light. crumbs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter Seasoning of salt. 

(melted but not hot). Pepper and minced parsley. 

Chop the fish fine, then rub it in a mortar or bowl with 
the back of a silver spoon, adding the butter until it is a 



FISH 51 

smooth paste; beat the breadcrumbs ,into the eggs, and 
season before working all together. Put it into a buttered 
pudding-mould, and steam or boil for half an hour, 

Sauee for the Above. — One cup of milk, heated to a boil 
and thickened with a tablespoonful of cornflour, one large 
spoonful of butter, one raw egg, one teaspoonful of anchovy, 
mushroom or tomato catsup, a small pinch of mace, and one 
of cayenne. Put the egg in last, and very carefully boil 
one minute to cook it, and when the pudding is turned from 
the mould, pour over it and serve. This is a nice supper 
dish, and canned salmon may be used for it if liked, and the 
liquor added to the sauce. 

BAKED SALMOIT WITH CREAM SAUCE 
A middle cut of salmon, four tablespoonfuls of butter, 
melted in hot water. For the Sauce — A cup of cream, one 
teaspoonful of cornflour, one tablespoonful of butter, pep- 
per, salt and parsley. 

Butter a sheet of foolscap paper on both sides, and wrap 
the fish up in it, pinning the ends securely together. Lay 
it in the baking-pan and pour six or seven spoonfuls of 
butter-and-water over it. Turn another pan over all, and 
steam in a moderate oven from three-quarters of an hour to 
an hour, lifting the cover from time to time to baste, and 
assure yourself that the paper is not burning. Meanwhile 
have ready in a saucepan a cup of cream, in which you 
would do well to dissolve a bit of soda a little larger than a 
pea. This is a wise precaution whenever cream is to be 
boiled. Heat this in a double boiler, thicken with a heaping 
teaspoonful of cornflour, add a tablespoonful of butter, pep- 
per and salt to taste, a liberal pinch of minced parsley ; and 
when the fish is unwrapped and dished pour half slowly 
over it, sending the rest to table in a boat. 

If you have no cream use milk, and add a beaten egg to 
the thickening. 



52 FISH 

STEAMED SALMON 

1 can of salmon. 1 tablespoonful melted but- 

1 cup of fine breadcrumbs. ter. 

1 teaspoonful of chopped A little milk is an improve- 
parsley. ment. 

2 eggs. 

Steam in a mould one hour. Make a white sauce ; season 
with teaspoonful anchovy sauce and pour over the salmon 
when served. This is a luncheon dish. 

SALMON CREAM 
^ can salmon well blended, 8 tablespoonfuls milk or 
Yolks of two eggs. cream, 

2 pinches of salt. Small piece of butter. 

I teaspoonful of cayenne. 2 tablespoonfuls of bread- 
^ teaspoonful mace. crumbs. 

Small piece of onion. 

Mix well, put in mould and steam; serve with butter 
sauce. 

Butter Sauce. — Butter size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls 
flour, pinch of salt; mix well on stove, add boiling water, 
stirring all the time, 

SMOKED SALMON 

Soak over night, changing the water three times for 
warmer. In the morning rub hard to get rid of the smoke 
and rust, leave in ice-water half an hour, wipe dry, rub with 
oHve oil and vinegar and broil over a clean fire. Pass 
sliced lemon with it. 

A QUICK RELISH OF SMOKED SALMON 

Half a pound of smoked salmon cut into narrow strips; 
two tablespoonfuls of butter ; juice of half a lemon ; cayenne 
pepper. Parboil the salmon ten minutes ; lay in cold water 
for the same length of time ; wipe dry, and broil over a clear 



FISH 53 

fire. Butter while hot, season with cayenne and lemon- 
juice, pile in a "log-cabin" square upon a hot plate, and 
send up with dry toast. 

SALMON IN A MOULD 
Drain the liquor from one can of salmon, and remove the 
bones and skin. Chop fine and rub into it until smooth, 
four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, season with salt, pepper 
and minced parsley, also a little celery, if liked. Beat four 
eggs well, add half a cupful of cracker-crumbs, mix all welL 
and thoroughly. Put into a buttered mould and steam one 
hour. Sauce. — Boil one cupful of milk and thicken with 
one tablespoonful of cornstarch; add to the liquor from 
the salmon, one tablespoonful of butter, one egg, and one 
teaspoonful of catsup. Put the egg in last and very care- 
fully. Boil one minute. Turn the salmon out of the mould 
and pour the sauce around. 

CREAMED SALMON 
Delightful supper dish easily prepared. 

Take a tin of salmon, empty on a dish and flake with a 
fork. Have ready a sauce made in double boiler from one 
pint of milk, butter size of an egg, one teaspoonful of flour, 
with salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Melt butter and 
flour until smooth and add milk slowly. When it boils re- 
move from fire and add two well-beaten eggs. Put alter- 
nate layers of salmon and sauce in baking dish until all is 
used; cover with layer of cracker or bread-crumbs; bake 
fifteen minutes and serve hot. 

SALMON LOAF 
1 can of salmon minced. -J cup of breadcrumb. 
4 eggs. Season with salt and pepper, 

4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 



"64 FISH 

Pick fish fine; rub butter smooth; beat the crumbs into 
the eggs, and season before mixing; steam one hour in a 
buttered mold. Sauce — One cup of milk thickened with 
one tablespoouful of cornstarch, one tablcspoonful butter; 
add the liquor otf the fish and one raw egg, then pour over 
the loaf. 

BOILED SALMON 

Sew up the fish in a piece of thin muslin, or mosquito- 
netting, fitted well to it, and boil in salted boiling water to 
which two tablespoonfuls of vinegar have been added. Take 
off the cloth carefully when the fish has boiled twelve min- 
utes to the pound, and lay upon a hot platter. Pour over 
it a few spooufuls of egg sauce into which has been stirred 
a tablespoouful of capers, and serve the rest in a gravy-boat. 
Garnish with nasturtiums, or parsley, or cresses. 

EELS STEWED A L' AMERICAN 
3 lbs. eels, skinned, cleaned, 4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

and fat removed from in- Pepper and salt. 

side. Little chopped parsley. 

1 young onion chopped. 

Cut the eels in pieces, about two inches in length ; season 
and lay in a saucepan containing the melted butter. Strew 
the onion and parsley over all, cover the saucepan closely, 
and set in a pot of cold water. Bring this gradually to a 
boil, then cook very gently for an hour and a half, or until 
the eels are tender. Turn out into a deep dish. 

MAYONNAISE OF FISH 

1 lb. of fish, cooked. 1 teaspoonful of salt. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. | teaspoonful mustard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of best oil. ^ teaspoonful pepper. 

6 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 2 heads blanched lettuce. 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 



FISH 5S 

Rub the yolks of the eggs smooth with the oil, add the 
sugar, salt, mustard and pepper, and when these are well 
mixed, the vinegar, a few drops at a time. Set it by, cov- 
ered, while you cut — not chop — the fish into strips about an 
inch long, and shred the lettuce. Mix these in a salad bowl, 
pour over the dressing and garnish with rings of the whites 
of the eggs. Serve as soon as it is ready or the lettuce will 
become limp. 

If preferred, the lettuce may be laid around the fish after 
the dressing is poured on, instead of being mixed with it. 

FISH CUTLET 

2 cups of boiled fish. 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
1 cup of milk or cream. parsley. 

1 large tablespoonful of Pepper and salt to taste (lit- 

butter. tie onion juice and nutmeg, 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. if you wish). 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Put milk on to boil, rub butter and flour together well 
and add to milk, then parsley. Add yolks of eggs, then the 
fish and stir until well mixed, then season. When cold 
form into cutlets; roll with a little flour, dip in egg and 
then in breadcrumbs. Fry in dripping. 

Sauce. — Tablespoonful of melted butter, one of flour, 
stir smoothly, add one cup of milk ; salt and pepper. 

FISH BALLS A LA NORRIS 

1-J cups of minced fish. 1 tablespoonful of chopped 
f of a tablespoonful of but- parsley. 

ter. ^ teaspoonful of celery salt, 

f of a cup of milk. Grating of nutmeg. 

1^ tablespoonfuls of flour. Salt and pepper. 

Butter and flour put in saucepan stirred until well 
blended; add milk, cook, stirring constantly till it leaves 



58 FISH 

bottom and sides of pan; add flavorings, seasoning and 
fish; mix well together; form into balls without using 
flour; arrange down the centre of a dish which has been 
garnished with a puree of peas and potatoes (using pastry 
bag). Garnish with parsley. 

FISH ENTREE 

1 can salmon, A small piece of butter. 

2 eggs well beaten. Pepper and salt. 

1 cup breadcrumbs. 

Put in a bowl and steam two hours. Serve with a drawn- 
butter sauce, in which can be added two hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped fine. 

CROaUETTES OF LOBSTER 
Meat of 1 fine lobster well rubbed to powder, then 

boiled. beaten into the butter. 

2 eggs. 1 good teaspoonful of lemon 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter. juice. 

I cup of fine breadcrumbs. Pinch of mace and lemon peel. 

1 teaspoonful of anchovy Yolks of 2 raw eggs beaten 
sauce. very light. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, boiled and Salt and cayenne pepper. 

Mince the meat, work in the butter, melted, but not hot; 
then the seasoning, the raw eggs, and lastly the bread- 
crumbs. Make into oblong balls, set on the ice for two 
hours and fry quickly in deep cottolene. Drain them of 
every drop of fat by rolling each, for an instant, very 
lightly upon a hot, clean cloth. Be sure your dish is well 
heated. Crab croquettes are made in the same way. 

CURRIED LOBSTER 

2 cups of lobster dice. 2 teaspoonfuls of curry pow- 
2 cups weak stock. der. 

1 teaspoonful minced onion. Saltspoon of salt. 



FISH 57 

Fry the onion in the butter, add the salt, the stock, the 
eurry, and cook gently for five minutes, before putting in 
the lobster. Serve as soon as this is thoroughly heated. 
Pass plain boiled rice with this dish. 

BERLINER LOBSTER 

1 fresh lobster. ^ pt. cream. 

Butter size of egg. 1 small glass sherry. 

Yolks 3 eggs. Salt and paprica to taste. 

One lobster, cut into small pieces, put in butter, melt 
quickly in double boiler. Beat up yolks eggs with cream; 
beat slowly while standing in another dish of hot water till 
creamy, then take off the fire. Add salt and paprica to 
taste and small glass of best sherry. Pour over lobster and 
serve quickly and hot. 

SAVORY CREAM (COLD ENTREE) 

A small lobster or 1 can 1 tablespoonful of mayon- 

passed through a sieve. naise. 

^ pt. of cream. ^ oz. or little more of gela- 

1 gill tomato juice. tine. 
1 gill aspic jelly. 

Put a little aspic jelly in the bottom of a border mould, 
decorate with small pieces of lobster and small leaves of 
parsley. Beat gelatine in tomato juice, whip the cream; 
also whip the aspic. Mix these together. Stir in the may- 
onnaise and the melted gelatine and tomato, also your lob- 
ster. Fill the mould carefully and set. When cold turn 
out and fill the centre with small salad. 

LOBSTER CUTLET 

A dainty little dish is made from half a tin of lobster 
drained, the juice saved for panada of one ounce of butter, 



68 FISH 

one ounce of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pep- 
per, preferably cayenne; one gill of lobster juice; if not 
enough juice add milk. Boil well, add two tablespoonfuls 
cream and one of lemon-juice; stir in lobster, chopped fine; 
beat all well together and cool. When set divide in small 
portions, form cutlets ; for bone stick in a small bit of maca- 
roni; egg and biscuit-crumb the cutlets and fry in butter. 
To be served in a circle round a centre of fried parsley. 

SCALLOPED LOBSTER 

Butter the dish, chop the lobster quite fine; layer of lob- 
ster and cracker-crumbs alternately; salt, pepper, and but- 
ter; moisten with milk. Bake for twenty minutes. 

SALT MACKEEEL WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Proceed as with boiled mackerel, but when dished, pour 
over it, instead of the white sauce, one of tomatoes, stewed, 
strained, seasoned with onion-juice, pepper, salt, and sugar, 
and thickened with a brown roux of butter and flour. Let 
the fish lie in this for ten minutes and serve. 

SMOKED HERRIITG, ALEWIVES, BLOATERS, ETC. 

"Wash thoroughly, wipe dry, wrap them in clean, wet 
manilla paper, and leave in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 
Serve with sliced lemon. 

FINNAN HADDIE 

A Scotch delicacy 'that is becoming popular with us. 
Wash thoroughly, leave in cold water half an hour, then for 
five minutes in very hot. Wipe, rub over with butter and 
lemon-juice and broil fifteen minutes. 



FISH 59 

STEWED FKOGS' LEGS 

Skin, lay in milk for fifteen minutes ; roll in peppered and 
salted flour, and saute in hot butter for three minutes. 
Cover (barely) with hot water, and stew tender. Twenty 
minutes should suffice. Heat half a cupful of cream to 
boiling, stir in a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour, boil 
up, and turn into the saucepan w'here the frogs' legs are 
simmering. Season with pepper, salt, and a little chopped 
parsley. Cook gently for three minutes and serve. 

FRIED FROGS' LEGS 

Only the hind legs are eatable. They are very good, 
having a curious resemblance to the most delicate spring 
chicken. Skin, wash, and lay in milk for fifteen minutes. 
Without wiping them, pepper and salt, and coat with flour. 
Fry in deep boiling fat to a light brown. Or — AVipe off the 
milk, dip in egg and pounded cracker, and fry. 



CLAMS A LA FINANCIERE 

2 doz. clams. | teaspoonful chopped onion. 

1 slice mild ham. 1 tablespoonful chopped cel- 

1 teaspoonful chopped pars- ery. 

ley. -J can French mushrooms. 

Salt and red pepper. ^ can French peas. 

Open clams, taking care to retain all the liquor found in 
shell, also shells to serve up in. Stew in their own liquor 
for five minutes, cut into pieces the size of peas. Take 
ham, cut into small dice; place in a small saucepan on fire 
with sufficient butter to prevent burning; fry to a light 



^60 FISH 

brown color, then add chopped onions, chopped celerj^; 
mushrooms, peas; parsley. Mix in the clams and their 
liquor. Season to taste with red pepper and salt; stew for 
fifteen minutes. Serve in their own shell made hot, with 
borders of mashed potatoes and garnished with parsley and 
lemon. 

BOILED BASS 

Put enough water in the pot for the fish to swim in easily. 
Add half a cupful of vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, an 
onion, a dozen black peppers, and a blade of mace. Sew up 
the fish in a piece of clean mosquito-netting, fitted to its 
shape. Heat slowly for the first half hour, then boil twelve 
minutes to the pound, quite fast. Unwrap, and pour over 
it a cup of drawn-butter, based upon the liquor in which 
the fish was boiled, with the juice of half a lemon stirred 
into it. Garnish with sliced lemon. 



BROILED SALT MACKEREL 

"Wash and scrape the fish. Soak all night, changing the 
water at bed-time for tepid, and again early in the morning 
for almost scalding. Keep this hot for an hour by setting 
the vessel containing the soaking fish on the side of the 
range. Wash, now, in cold water with a stiff brush or rough 
cloth, wipe perfectly dry, rub all over with salad oil and 
vinegar, or lemon-juice, and let it lie in this marinade for a 
quarter of an hour before broiling it over clear coals. Lay 
on a hot dish and spread with a mixture of butter, lemon- 
juice, and minced parsley. The mackerel will be so far 
superior to that cooked in the old-fashioned way that it will 
amply repay you for the trifling additional work. 



FISH 61 

FRIED PICKEREL 

Clean, wipe dry, roll in salted and peppered flour, or dip 
in egg and roll in seasoned cracker-dust, and fry quickly in 
deep cottolene or oil brought slowly to the boil. 

BROOK TROUT 

Clean, wash, and dry the fish, handling tenderly, not to 
mar its beauty or flavor, roll in salted and peppered flour, 
and fry in deep fat to a delicate brown. Serve up on 
folded tissue-paper in a hot-water dish, if you have one. 
The simpler the seasoning the better. 

FILLETS OF HALIBUT, BLACK-FISH, BASS, ETC. 

The word fillet, whether applied to fish, poultry, game, or 
butcher's meat, means simply the flesh of either (or of cer- 
tain portions of it), raised clear from the bones in a hand- 
some form, and divided or not, as the manner in which it is 
to be served may require. It is an elegant mode of dressing 
various kinds of fish, and even those which are not the most 
highly esteemed, afford an excellent dish when thus pre- 
pared. The fish to be filleted with advantage, should be 
large ; the flesh may then be divided down the middle of the 
back, next separated from the fins, and with a very sharp 
knife raised clean from the bones. When thus prepared, 
the fillets may be divided, trimmed into a good form, egged, 
covered with fine crumbs, fried in the usual wa}^, and served 
with the same sauces as the whole fish ; or each fillet may be 
rolled up, in its entire length, if very small, or after being 
once divided, if large, and fastened with a slight twine, or a 
short thin skewer; then egged, crumbed, and fried in plenty 
of boiling lard; or merely well floured, and fried from eight 
to ten minutes. When the fish are not very large, they are 
sometimes boned without being parted in the middle, and 



62 FISH 

each side is rolled from the tail to the head, after being first 
spread with butter, a few bread-crumbs, and a high season- 
ing of mace and cayenne; or with pounded lobster mixed 
with a large portion of the coral, and the same seasoning, 
and proportion of butter; then laid into a dish, well covered 
with crumbs of bread and clarified butter, and baked from 
twelve to sixteen minutes, or until the crumbs are colored to 
a fine brown in a moderate oven. 

The fillets may likewise be cut into small strips or squares 
of uniform size, lightly dredged with pepper or cayenne, 
salt, and flour, and fried in butter over a brisk fire; then 
well drained, and sauced with a good bechamel, flavored 
with a teaspoonful of minced parsley. 

COLLOPED HALIBUT 

Cut the fish into nice cutlets, of about an inch thick, and 
fry them ; then put them into a broth made of the bones, 
four onions, a stick of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs, 
boiled together for half an hour. Strain this broth, thicken, 
then flour and lay them in a stew-pan with some good broth, 
and let them stew gently until perfectly tender; thicken 
the gravy with butter or cream, add a spoonful of sauce, 
half a glass of wine, and serve it up with capers strewed over 
the top, and garnished with slices of lemon. 

HALIBUT 

Partakes somewhat of the flavor of the turbot, and grows 
to an enormous size, being sometimes caught weighing more 
than one hundred weight; the best size is, however, from 
twenty to forty pounds, as, if much larger, it is coarse. The 
most esteemed parts are the flakes over the fins, and the 
pickings about the head; but on account of its great bulk, 
it is commonly cut up and sold in collops, or in pieces of a 



FISH 63 

few pounds weight, at a very reasonable rate. A small one 
cut in thin slices and crimped, is very good eating. 

BOILED HALIBUT 

Take a small halibut, or what you require from a large 
fish. Put it into the fish-kettle, with the back of the fish 
undermost, cover it with cold water, in which a handful of 
salt, and a bit of saltpetre the size of a hazelnut, have been 
dissolved. When it begins to boil, skim it carefully, and 
then let it just simmer till it is done. Four pounds of fish 
will require nearly thirty minutes to boil it. Drain it, 
garnish with horseradish or parsley — egg sauce or plain 
melted butter are served with it. 

ROAST STUBGEON 

Put a good-sized piece in a large cradle-spit (five or six 
pounds will make a handsome dish for the head of the 
table) ; stuff it with force-meat; keep it at the fire for two 
or three hours, but remove the skin ; cover it with crumbs of 
bread, and brown it with the salamander ; baste it constantly 
with butter, and serve with a good brown gravy, an an- 
chovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of 
sherry boiled up, and poured into the dish, 

STURGEON CUTLETS 

Cut in slices quarter of an inch thick ; dry, flour, and egg 
them; dip in crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, parsley, 
and thyme; fry them, and serve with Indian pickle, tomato, 
or piquant sauce. 

FISH OMELET 

Cook together one level tablespoonful of flour and one of 
butter; add gradually half a cup of hot milk and a little 
pepper. Pour boiling w'ater on a half-cupful of shredded 



64 FISH 

codfish, drain and mix with the thickened milk, then add 
two cupfuls of cold boiled potatoes chopped fine. Melt a 
tahlespoonful of butter in a spider; when hot turn in fish 
and cook slowly until a thick crust has formed; then fold 
over and serve on hot platter. 

BOILED WHITEFISH 

Lay the fish open ; put it in a dripping pan, with the back 
down; nearly cover with water; to one fish put two table- 
spoonfuls of salt; cover tightly and simmer (not boil) one- 
half hour; dress with gravy, butter and pepper; garnish 
with sliced eggs. For sauce use a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, one tahlespoonful of flour, one-half pint boiling 
water; boil a few minutes, and add three hard-boiled eggs, 
shred. 

BROILED WHITEFISH— PEESH 

Wash and drain the fish ; sprinkle with pepper and lay 
with the inside down upon the gridiron, and broil over fresh 
bright coals. When a nice brown, turn for a moment on the 
other side, then take up and spread with butter. This is a 
very nice way of broiling all kinds of fish, fresh or salted. 
A little smoke under the fish adds to its flavor. This may 
be made by putting two or three cobs under the gridiron. 

BAKED BLACK BASS 

8 good sized onions chopped Butter size of an egg. 

fine. Plenty of salt and pepper. 

Half that quantity of bread- Mix thoroughly with anchovy 

crumbs. sauce until quite red. 

Stuff your fish with this compound and pour the rest 
over it, previously sprinkling it with a little red pepper. 
Shad, pickerel and trout are good the same way. Tomatoes 
can be used instead of anchovies, and are more economical. 
If using them take pork in place of butter and chop fine. 



FISH 65 

TURBOT 

Steam till tender one large whitefish; remove bones and 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dressing — Heat one pint of 
milk thickened with two tablespoonfuls of flour; when cold 
add two eggs and one-fourth of a pound of butter. Put 
into a baking-dish a layer of the fish and a layer of dress- 
ing; season with one-half teaspoonful of onion-juice; cover 
top with bread-crumbs, and bake one-half hour. 

FRICASSEE OF SHRIMP 

One quart of tomatoes, one quart of water, and onion to 
suit the taste, stewed together until the tomatoes can be 
passed through a sieve. After steaming stew with season- 
ing (season highly), and a tablespoonful of butter creamed 
with a little flour, for fifteen minutes; add two cans of 
shrimps, carefully washed. Heat thoroughly and serve with 
rice. 

SMELTS 

Clean the smelts by drawing them between the finger and 
thumb, beginning at the tail. This will press out the insides 
at the opening at the gills. "Wash them and drain in a co- 
lander ; salt well and dip in beaten egg and bread or cracker- 
crumbs. Dip first in the egg and then roll in the crumbs. 
Fry in boiling fat deep enough to float them. They should 
be a handsome brown in two minutes and a half. Take 
them up and place them on a sheet of brown paper for a few 
minutes to drain, then pour on a hot dish. Garnish with 
parsley and a few slices of lemon. 



G6 FISH 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



FISH 67 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



68 ^ISH 



WRITTEN RECIPES j 



FISH 69 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



MEATS 

In the selection of meat it is most essential that we under- 
stand how to choose it; in beef it should be a smooth, fine 
grain, of a clear bright red color, the fat white, and will feel 
tender when pinched with the fingers. Will also have abun- 
dant kidney fat or suet. The most choice pieces for roast 
are the sirloin, fore and middle ribs. 

Veal, to be good, should have the flesh firm and dry, fine 
grained and of a delicate pinkish color, and plenty of kidney 
fat; the joints stiff. 

Mutton is good when the flesh is a bright red, firm and 
juicy and a close grain, the fat firm and white. 

Pork, if young, the lean will break on being pinched 
smooth when nipped with the fingers, also the skin will break 
and dent ; if the rind is rough and hard it is old. 

In roasting meat, allow from fifteen to twenty minutes to 
the pound, which will vary according to the thickness of the 
roast. A great deal of the success in roasting depends on the 
heat and goodness of the fire ; if put into a cool oven it loses 
its juices, and the result is a tough, tasteless roast ; whereas, 
if the oven is of the proper heat, it immediately sears up the 
pores of the meat and the juices are retained. 

The oven should be the hottest when the meat is put into 
it, in order to quickly crisp the surface and close the porea 
of the meat, thereby confining its natural juices. If the 
oven is too hot to hold the hand in for only a moment, then 
the oven is right to receive the meat. The roast should first 
be washed in pure water, then wiped dry with a clean dry 
cloth, placed in a baking-pan, without any seasoning; some 
pieces of suet or cold drippings laid under it, but no water 
should be put into the pan, for this would have a tendency to 

70 



MEATS 71 

soften the outside of the meat. The water can never get so 
hot as the hot fat upon the surface of the meat, and the 
generating of the steam prevents its crispness, so desirable 
in a roast. 

It should be frequently basted with its own drippings 
which flow from the meat when partly cooked, and well sea- 
soned. Lamb, veal and pork should be cooked rather slower 
than beef, with a more moderate fire, covering the fat with a 
piece of paper, and thoroughly cooked till the flesh parts 
from the bone; and nicely browned, without being burned. 
An onion sliced and put on top of a roast while cooking, 
especially roast of pork, gives a nice flavor. Remove the 
onion before serving. 

Larding meats is drawing ribbons of fat pork through the 
upper surface of the meat, leaving both ends protruding. 
This is accomplished by the use of a larding-needle, which 
may be procured at house-furnishing stores. 

Boiling or stewing meat, if fresh, should be put into boil- 
ing water, closely covered, and boiled slowly, allowing twenty 
minutes to each pound, and when partly cooked, or when it 
begins to get tender, salted, adding spices and vegetables. 

Salt meats should be covered with cold water, and require 
thirty minutes' very slow boiling, from the time the water 
boils, for each pound; if it is very salt, pour off the first 
water, and put it in another of boiling water, or it may be 
soaked one night in cold water. After meat commences to 
boil, the pot should never stop simmering and always be re- 
plenished from the boiling tea-kettle. 

Frying m'j be done in two ways: one method, which is 
most generally used, is by putting one ounce or more (as the 
case requires) of beef drippings, lard or butter, into a frying. 
pan, and when at the boiling point, laying in the meat, cook- 
ing both sides a nice brown. The other method is to com- 
pletely immerse the article to be cooked in sufficient hot lard 
to cover it, similar to frying doughnuts. 



72 MEATS 

Broiled meats should be placed over clear, red coals, free 
from smoke, giving out a good heat, but not too brisk, or the 
meat will be hardened and scorched ; but if the fire is dead, 
the gravy will escape, and drop upon the coals, creating a 
blaze, which will blacken and smoke the meat. Steaks and 
chops should be turned often, in order that every part should 
be evenly done — never sticking a fork into the lean part, as 
that lets the juices escape; it should be put into the outer 
skin or fat. When the meat is sufficiently broiled, it should 
be laid on a hot dish and seasoned. The best pieces for steak 
are the porter-house, sirloin, and rump. 

THAWING FROZEN MEAT 

If meat, poultrj^ fish, vegetables, or any other article of 
food, when found frozen, is thawed by putting it into warm 
water or placing it before the fire, it will most certainly spoil 
by that process, and be rendered unfit to eat. The only way 
to thaw these things is by immersing them in cold water. 
This should be done as soon as they are brought in from 
market, that they may have time to be well thawed before 
they are cooked. If meat that has been frozen is to be 
boiled, put it on in cold water. If to be roasted, begin by 
setting it at a distance from the fire; for if it should not 
chance to be thoroughly thawed all through to the centre, 
placing it at first too near the fire will cause it to spoil. If it 
is expedient to thaw the meat or poultry the night before 
cooking, lay it in cold water early in the evening, and change 
the water at bedtime. If found crusted with ice in the morn- 
ing, remove the ice, and put the meat in fresh cold water, 
letting it lie in it till wanted for cooking. This will keep 
it tender. 

Potatoes are injured by being frozen. Other vegetables 
are not the worse for it, provided they are always thawed in 
cold water. 



MEATS 73 

TO KEEP MEAT FKOM FLIES 

Put in sacks, with enough straw around it so the flies can- 
not reach through. Three-fourths of a yard of yard-wide 
muslin is the right size of the sack. Put a little straw in the 
bottom, then put in the ham, and lay straw in all around it ; 
tie it tightly, and hang it in a cool, dry place. Be sure the 
straw is all around the meat, so the flies cannot reach through 
to deposit the eggs. (The sacking must be done early in 
the season before the fly appears.) Muslin lets the air in 
and is much better than paper. Then muslin is as good as 
thick, and will last for years if washed when laid away when 
emptied. 

EOAST BEEF 

One very essential point in roasting beef is to have the 
oven well heated when the beef is first put in ; this causes the 
pores to close up quickly, and prevents the escape of the 
juices. 

Take a rib piece or loin roast of seven or eight pounds. 
Wipe it thoroughly all over with a clean wet towel. Lay it 
in a dripping-pan, and baste it well with butter or suet fat. 
Set it in the oven. Baste it frequently with its own drip- 
pings, which will make it brown and tender. When partly 
done season with salt and pepper, as it hardens any meat to 
salt it when raw, and draws out its juices ; then dredge with 
sifted flour to give it a frothy appearance. It will take a 
roast of this size about two hours' time to be properly done, 
leaving the inside a little rare or red — half an hour less 
would make the inside quite rare. Remove the beef to a 
heated dish, set where it will keep hot; then skim the drip- 
pings from all fat, add a tablespoonful of sifted flour, a 
little pepper and a teacupful of boiling water. Boil up once 
and serve hot in a gravy-boat. 

Some prefer the clear gravy without the thickening. 
Serve with mustard or grated horseradish and vinegar. 



74 MEATS 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

This is a very nice accompaniment to a roast of beef; the 
ingredients are, one pint of milk, four eggs, white and yolks 
beaten separately, one teaspoonful of salt, and two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder sifted through two cups of flour. It 
should be mixed very smooth, about the consistency of cream. 
Regulate your time when you put in your roast, so that it 
will be done half an hour or forty minutes before dishing up. 
Take it from the oven, set it where it will keep hot. In the 
meantime have this pudding prepared. Take two common 
biscuit tins, dip some of the drippings from the dripping-pan 
into these tins, pour half of the pudding into each, set them 
into the hot oven, and keep them in until the dinner is 
dished up ; take these puddings out at the last moment and 
send to the table hot. This I consider much better than the 
old way of baking the pudding under the meat. 

BROILED STEAK 

Rump steak, about an inch thick, butter, pepper, and salt. 
Butter a sheet of white paper and twist the four corners 
so as to form a little tray, lay the steak in this and broil 
quickly from five to ten minutes, turning it once in the 
paper while cooking. When done lay it on a hot dish, season 
with pepper and salt, add a little bit of butter, and serve at 
once. 

Steak cooked in this way is much nicer than if broiled 
without the paper. 

BEEF CAKES 

1 lb. under-cooked roast beef. Salt and pepper. 
^ lb. of ham or bacon. 1 large egg. 

1 teaspoonful of sweet herbs. 

Mince the beef and ham, add herbs, etc., and mix with the 
egg, which must be previously well beaten; brush each cake 



MEATS 75 

over with a little white of egg ; cover with breadcrumbs, and 
fry quickly for five minutes. 

BROWNED MINCE OF BEEF 

Remains of cold roast beef. Breadcrumbs. 

^ as much potato, mashed. Seasoning of salt, pepper, 

1 cup of gravy. mustard and catsup. 

Mince the meat very fine, mix with it the potato, and sea- 
son well ; add the cup of gravy, work all together and make 
very hot in a saucepan. Pile upon a dish, cover with fine 
breadcrumbs, and brown quickly in the oven. It is much 
improved by putting bits of butter over the top as it begins 
to brown. Serve in the dish it is baked in. 

BEEAKFAST DISH OF BEEF 

Cold roast beef. A little salt and pepper, 

3 tablespoonfuls of walnut A dessertspoonful of currant 

catsup. jelly. 

1 teaspoonful of vinegar, A little warm water. 

Cut thin slices of cold roast beef, and lay them in a tin 
saucepan set in a pot of boiling water, and cover them with 
gravy made of the above ingredients. Cover tightly, and 
steam for half an hour, keeping the water in the outer vessel 
on a hard boil. If the meat is underdone, this is particularly 
nice. 

BEEF CROaiTETTES 

Minced cold beef. Season with catsup, pepper, 
I as much mashed potato. salt and a pinch of mar- 
Gravy enough to moisten joram. 

them, in which an onion Fine breadcrumbs. 

has been cooked. 1 egg. 

Mash the potatoes, while hot, very smooth, or if cold pota- 



7G MEATS 

toes be used, see they are free from lumps ; mix in the meat, 
gravy, and seasoning, bind all together with the beaten egg 
and form into the desired shapes; roll them in fine bread- 
crumbs, and fry quickly to a light brown. Drain on soft 
paper before the fire till free from fat, and serve hot, 

TIMBALE DE VOLAILLE 

Cut a cooked chicken into small pieces; chop up mush- 
room, ham, and truffles, and stir into white sauce. Line a 
mould with pieces of macaroni, cooked, cut in even lengths; 
fill in with the volaille and steam one hour. Turn out very 
carefully. Serve with white or brown sauce. 

LAMB HARICOT 

2 lbs. chops. Pepper and salt. 

1 slice onion. 1 cup hot water. 

2 carrots. 

Brown chops; brown carefully a sliced onion; add carrots 
cut in pieces, pepper, salt, and a cup of hot water; cook 
slowly two hours. Add more water if necessary; thicken 
slightly with brov i' 1 flour when cooked. A little minced 
parsley improves the haricot. 

GOOD BEEF STEW 

Take a good round steak, two or three pounds; brown 
well on both sides in butter. Then add a pint of water; 
cook very slowly well covered two hours, then add pepper, 
salt and minced onion if liked, and cook half an hour longer. 
The addition of stoned olives and mushrooms improve this 
very much. 



MEATS 77 

BERLIN KIDNEY 

6 lamb's kidneys. 2 tablespoonful Worcester- 

1 cup green peas. shire. 

^ onion, chopped. 1 cup gravy with stock. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

Cut lamb kidneys, skin and fry in butter for a few min- 
utes. Mix all together until thoroughly heated. 

STEWED BREAST OF LAMB 

One breast of lamb, pepper and salt to taste, sufficient 
stock to cover it, thickening of butter and flour. 

Skin the lamb and cut into pieces, and season them with 
pepper and salt ; lay these in a stew-pan with sufficient stock 
of gravy to cover them, and stew gently for an hour and a 
half. Just before serving, thicken the gravy with a little 
butter and flour, give one boil, and pour it over the meat. 
Have ready a pint and a half of green peas and lay them 
over and around the meat. A few stewed mushrooms will 
be found an improvement if they can be obtained, but they 
are not necessary for this dish. 

MINCED LAMB, WITH POACHED EGGS 

Remains of cold roast lamb, one good cup of gravy, pepper, 
salt, seasoning of mint, poached eggs, buttered toast. 

Trim the meat and mince it finely, well seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and a little mint. Put the gravy into a sauce- 
pan (make it from the bones if you have no other), and let 
it get hot ; then stir in the mince and let all become very hot, 
but do not let it boil, thicken with a little brown flour, and 
pile on a flat dish. Have ready a few slices of buttered 
toast, cut into neat squares, lay a poached egg on each, place 
these around or upon the mince, and serve. 



78 MEATS 

AMERICAN FRITTERS 

Slices of undercooked roast beef or mutton ; for the batter, 
one-half pound flour, one large or two small eggs, salt, milk ; 
lard or dripping for frying. 

Cut the meat into moderately thick slices, and as neat a 
shape as possible, pepper and salt each piece, then make a 
batter in the above proportions, taking care that it is not 
very thin. Have ready a pan of boiling lard or dripping, 
dip each piece of meat into the batter, and fry quickly to a 
light brown. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with a thick 
border of fried apples. 

BOILED BRAINS 

Calf's or bullock's brains, pepper and salt, marjoram or 
sage, sippets of toasted bread. 

Steep the brains in lukewarm water for two hours to draw 
the blood, then tie in muslin, put into boiling water and boil 
for twenty minutes ; take them up, drain in a colander, then 
turn into a basin and beat thoroughly with a fork, season 
with plenty of pepper and salt and a little marjoram or sage 
— sage is best. Put on a hot dish, pour over a good melted 
butter sauce, and garnish with sippets of toast. This makes 
a good breakfast or supper dish. Care must be taken in pre- 
paring it to have all the basins and dishes very hot. 

ROULADES OF BEEF 

Slices of undercooked roast beef, slices of boiled ham, one- 
egg, pepper and mustard, a little thick gravy, fine crumbs; 
butter or dripping for frying. 

Cut the beef into thin, even, oblong slices, the ham rather 
thinner and smaller; spread one side of the beef with mus- 
tard, and pepper the ham. Lay the ham upon the beef and 
roll up together as lightly as possible; brush over with the 
egg, roll each in the crumbs, and pierce through with a 



MEATS 79 

slender skewer, in such a manner as to keep the roll pinned 
together. Put several on each skewer, but do not let them 
touch one another ; fry brown, lay on a hot dish, and gently 
withdraw the skewers, then pour the gravy boiling hot over 
them, and serve. Small roulades are a nice garnish for game 
and roast poultry. 

BEEF OLIVES 

Slices of undercooked roast beef, breadcrumbs, sweet herbs, 
pepper and salt, and gravy. 

Cut the slices of meat very thin, spread upon each slice a 
stuffing made from the above ingredients, roll up tightly, 
and tie with string. Ha-ve ready in a saucepan some good 
brown gravy, lay in the olives, and let them simmer for about 
half an hour. Take up, remove the string carefully that the 
shape may not be spoiled, pour the gravy over, and serve 
hot. 

VEAL SHAPE 

1^ lbs. veal. Pepper and salt. 

1 lemon. 3 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 slice of ham. 

Stew the meat, with the thin rind of the lemon, in a very 
little water till quite tender. When done, cut up both veal 
and ham into small pieces, mince the lemon rind finely, and 
set these aside to cool. Strain the stock, add the lemon- juice 
and seasonings, and let this also cool. Cut the eggs into 
slices, and arrange them in a plain mould or dish, pour in 
the cool stock and meat, and set aside till quite cold, when 
it should turn out whole. This makes an excellent break- 
fast dish. 

STEWED STEAK AND MACARONI 

1^ lbs. of steak or other lean | lb. of macaroni, 
beef. Butter for frying. 

1 tablespoonful of catsup. A little flour. 



80 MEATS 

Cut the beef in small pieces, roll it in flour, and fry 
slightly in a little butter ; put it into a stew-pan, cover with 
hot water, and allow it to simmer slowly for an hour and a 
half; then add the macaroni and simmer again for three- 
quarters of an hour; season with pepper, salt, and catsup, 
and stew for ten minutes after the seasoning is added. 
Serve on a hot dish, the beef in the centre, and the macaroni 
round. 

SWISS PATES 

Cold roast veal or fowl. 1 egg (well beaten). 

A little white sauce. Fine breadcrumbs. 

Rounds of stale bread. Lard or drippings for frying. 

]VIince the meat finely, season well with some of the 
forcemeat or a little lemon peel, mix with thin white sauce, 
and set it near the fire to heat, stirring that it may not burn. 
Cut rather thick slices of baker's bread into rounds with a 
cake cutter; with a smaller cutter extract a piece from the 
middle of each round, taking care not to let the sharp edge 
go quite through, but leaving enough in the cavity to serve 
as a bottom to the pate. Dip the hollowed pieces of bread 
in the egg, strew them with fine crumbs, and fry in boiling 
fat to a delicate brown. Drain every drop of the fat from 
them by laying them on soft paper before the fire, then fill 
each with the hot mince, pile on a dish, garnish with parsley, 
and serve. 

BROILED LAMB OR MUTTON 

Cut slices from the hind-quarter, about "four fingers" in 
size and an inch and a half thick. Cut slits in it, pound and 
season with a little salt, pepper and onion juice. Sprinkle 
a little powdered mint in the slits, place on a buttered grid- 
iron and broil over a clear fire, turning often until done. 
Serve very hot. 



MEATS 81 

SMYEITA STEAK 

Chop beef or mutton very fine, and season with juice of 
onion, salt and pepper, add fine breadcrumbs and several 
beaten eggs. Mix well, make into rolls and brown in hot 
butter in a frying-pan. Then put in a kettle, cover with 
melted butter and a little tomato juice, and simmer gently 
until tender. 

BAKED COLD ROAST BEEF 

Place a layer of the slices in the bottom of a shallow pud- 
ding dish, put pepper and salt, and a small slice of onion, on 
each, and cold gravy or little pieces of butter, then put in 
another layer of meat until all is used ; cover the top with a 
layer of mashed potatoes. Bake for half an hour, or until 
the top is nicely browned 

SAVORY GRILL 

1 tablespoonful of Worces- 1 dessertspoonful of York- 

tershire sauce. shire relish. 

1 dessertspoonful of chut- | teaspoonful of anchovy 

ney sauce. sauce. 

Butter the size of a walnut. 

Cut up any cold meat or fowl, and sprinkle with flour 
on both sides ; place the mixture above in any dish that will 
stand the heat of the top of the stove ; mix well ; allow it to 
heat slowly and thoroughly. 

CURRIED MUTTON 

1 pt. stock. Boil together slowly. 

Juice of ^ lemon. 2 lbs. raw or rare mutton, cut 

2 oz. of butter. in inch squares. 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. Salt, pepper and curry. 

Boil one sour apple with meat in sufficient water to stew, 



82 MEATS 

add curry and pepper and salt to taste ; when serving add a 
gill of cream. Boil a cupful of Patna rice in two quarts of 
boiling water twenty minutes, strain through colander and 
shake well. Make a wall of the rice around the serving dish, 
pour in the mixture and garnish with parsley ; serve very hot. 

SCOTCH HAGGIS 

Procure the bag and pluck of a sheep, clean the bag very 
carefully, parboil the heart, lights and liver for an hour and 
a half. Let them cool, and then mince very fine ; mince also 
a pound of fresh suet and grate the parboiled liver. Mix 
this along with two handfuls of oatmeal (previously browned 
in the oven), a few onions, black pepper, allspice and salt 
to taste. Take the bag and wash it first with cold water, 
then with boiling water. "When quite clean fill in the 
mince, but do not let it be more than half full, else the bag 
will burst. Add a little of the liquid in which the meat 
was parboiled, and sew up the bag. Put it in boiling water 
and prick it frequently with a large needle to let the air 
escape. Boil it for three hours Avith a plate in the bottom 
of the pot. 

VEAL OR CHICKEN" CHEVREUX 

Garnish small moulds with carrot, peas and beet, cooked 
and chopped with fancy cutter; cut meat in small squares; 
pack in moulds and fill with warm aspic jelly. 

VEAL LOAE 

One and one-half pounds raw veal, one-quarter pound 
raw or cooked bacon, or ham. Mince thoroughly. Season 
with pepper and very little salt, as the bacon or ham salts it. 
A little nutmeg, savory or other herbs; one-half cup of 
breadcrumbs. Add two eggs well beaten, keeping out 



MEATS 83 

enough to brush over the top (the outside) at the last; two 
tablespoons good stock; mix thoroughly and press into a 
square pan to shape it. Turn out and brush over with the 
beaten egg. Bake one and one-half hours in a slow oven, 
basting occasionally with a teaspoonful of butter melted in 
one-half cup of water; serve with brown gravy thickened 
slightly. 

ASPIC JEILY 

1 qt. good stock. 20 peppercorns. 

Whites and shells of 2 eggs. 10 cloves. 

1 cup lean raw beef. 2 stalks celery. 

1 oz. gelatine. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. ^ saltspoonful ground mace. 

2 tablespoonfuls sherry. Sprig of parsley. 

Mix the beef and eggs thoroughly together and add to the 
stock before it gets hot. When hot add gelatine (previously 
soaked in cold water), boil for about five minutes, strain and 
add vinegar, sherry, twenty peppercorns, ten cloves, two or 
three stalks of celery, one teaspoon salt, one-half saltspoon 
of ground mace, sprig of parsley. 

VEAL PATTY (OR BEEF) 

3 lbs. raw leg of veal chopped 3 tablespoonfuls cream, 
very fine. Butter size of egg. 

1 tablespoonful of salt. Pepper. 

8 tablespoonfuls of rolled 
crackers. 

Mould into a loaf; put into pan with a little water; 
sprinkle with cracker crumbs and small bits of butter on the 
top. An egg may be added. Bake two hours and eat cold. 



84 MEATS 

FORCEMEAT FOR VEAL, TURKEYS, FOWLS, HARE 

1 liver. 1 teaspoonful minced sweet 

2 oz. ham or bacon. herbs. 

1 lb. suet. Salt, cayenne and mace to 
Eind of ^ lemon. taste. 

2 eggs. 6 oz. breadcrumbs. 
1 teaspoonful minced parsley. 

Shred the ham or bacon and liver, chop the suet, lemon 
peel and herbs very tine. Add the seasoning to taste, salt, 
cayenne and mace, and blend all thoroughly together with 
the breadcrumbs before wetting. Then beat and strain the 
eggs, work them up with the other ingredients and the force- 
meat will be ready for use. 



STEWED RABBIT 



1 rabbit. 


A few forcemeat balls. 


2 large onions. 


1 large tablespoonful mush- 


6 cloves. 


room catsup. 


1 teaspoonful of chopped 


Thickening of butter and 


lemon peel. 


flour. 



Cut the rabbit into small joints, put them into a stew- 
pan, add the onions sliced, and the cloves and minced lemon 
peel. Pour in sufficient water to cover the meat and when 
the rabbit is nearly done drop in a few forcemeat balls, to 
which has been added the liver finely chopped. Thicken 
the gravy with flour and butter, put in the catsup, give 
one boil and serve. Time, rather more than one-half 
hour. 



MEATS 



85 



STEWED OX-TAILS 



2 ox-tails. 
1 onion. 

3 cloves. 

1 blade mace 

I teaspoonful whole black 

pepper. 
^ teaspoonful allspice. 



^ teaspoonful salt. 
Small bunch of savory herbs. 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 
1 tablespoonful mushroom 

catsup. 
Thickening of butter and 

flour. 



Mode: Divide the tails at the joints, wash, and put them 
into a stew-pan with sufficient water to cover, and set them on 
the fire ; when the water boils remove the scum, and add the 
onions cut into rings, the spice, seasoning and herbs. Cover 
the stew-pan closely, and simmer gently until tender, which 
will be in about two and one-half hours. Take the tails out, 
make a thickening of butter and flour; add it to the gravy, 
and let it boil for one-quarter of an hour. Strain it through 
a sieve into a saucepan; put back the tails, add the lemon 
juice and catsup; let the whole just boil up, and serve. 
Serve with croutons or sippets of toasted bread. 



BLANaUETTE OF VEAL 
2 cupfuls chopped cooked 1 tablespoonful of minced 



veal. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 cupful of stock. 
1 cupful of cream. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 



parsley. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 
12 button mushrooms, salt and 

pepper. 



Melt the butter, add flour, stir until smooth, add the 
liquid, and when the sauce thickens add meat and mush- 
rooms. Cook all together for a few minutes. "When ready 
to serve add yolks of eggs and parsley, cooking for a minute ; 
garnish with whole mushrooms. 



86 MEATS 

DUTCH STEW 

Fry together: 1| laurel leaves. 

^ tablespoonful butter. 4 or 5 cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Then add a cupful of gravy 
1 teaspoonful sugar. or bouillon and a beaten 
^ teaspoonful salt. egg. 

A little onion. 

When hot add squares of cooked meat. A great improve- 
ment is a little red wine, about two tablespoons, in which 
case a little more sugar is needed. This is a recipe brought 
over from Holland. 

PATE DE VEAU 

3^ lbs. beef or veal chopped 1 teaspoonful salt and pep- 
fine, per. 

3 slices salt pork chopped 1 nutmeg. 

fine. A piece of butter size of but- 

3 raw eggs. ternut. 

6 crackers rolled fine. 

Mix all with flour into a deep loaf, sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and small pieces of butter; bake two hours in meat- 
pan with a little water. Baste while baking. 

TIMBALE BATTEE 

1 cup flour, measured after 1 egg. 

sifting. ^ teaspoonful salt, 

f cup of milk. 

Add salt to flour, stir in milk by degrees, and egg beaten 
light, yolk and white together; strain and fry on timbale 
iron. Fill with creamed lobsters, sweet breads, chicken, 
salmon, or other mixture. 



MEATS 87 

SWEETBREADS FOR TIMBALES 

2 pairs sweetbreads. 1| tablespoonfuls flour. 

1 can mushrooms. 1 small onion. 

1 cup milk. 1 blade mace. 

1| tablespoonfuls butter. Salt and cayenne. 

Boil sweetbreads twenty minutes in salted water, throw 
in cold water to harden, free from skin and cut in dice, cut 
mushrooms in dice, put onion and mace in milk till flavored, 
then take out, melt butter, add flour, then the milk, let boil 
a minute, then add sweetbreads and mushrooms. 



HAM AND VEAL PIE 

1-|- or 2 lbs. veal. Seasoning of salt, pepper, 
3 or 4 slices lean cooked ham. blade of mace, a little nut- 
Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, meg, and a strip of lemon 

sliced. peel minced. 

1 pt. made gravy. A layer of good forcemeat. 

Method — Stew the veal very slowly for about half an hour, 
cut into small square pieces about two inches long; place at 
the bottom of the dish; season; a layer of ham, a layer of 
forcemeat; put the slices of egg on the top of the veal; fill 
the dish thus, the top layer being ham. Put in half of the 
gravy and cover with puff paste with good centre ornament 
of leaves. Bake from one and a half to two hours. Pour 
in the remainder of the gravy through a funnel. Before 
baking the crust should be brushed over with yolk of egg. 
Forcemeat — Two ounces of lean ham or bacon, six ounces 
breadcrumbs, four ounces of beef suet, two eggs, a strip of 
lemon rind, minced; half teaspoonful of minced parsley, 
quarter teaspoonful mixed herbs, pepper, salt and mace. 
Chop well and mix before adding eggs. 



88 MEATS 

ROAST SHOULDER OF LAMB 

Cook as you would the leg, but with more water in the pan 
and more slowly. When nearly done, baste plentifully with 
the gravy, and, five minutes later, with butter into which 
a little lemon-juice has been beaten. Brown lightly, after 
dredging with salt, pepper, and flour. Your object should 
be to make every part of the shoulder eatable, the muscles 
soft, and the skin gelatinous. As usually served, the thin 
part of the roast is often hard and distasteful, more like 
burnt leather than meat. You can vary the dish by having 
the bone of the shoulder taken out, filling the cavity with a 
dressing of breadcrumbs and butter, seasoned with pepper 
and salt. 

BRAISED BREAST OF LAMB 

Lay a breast of lamb, or two scrags, in a broad pot, meat 
downward. Scatter over this a sliced turnip, a sliced onion, 
and two sliced tomatoes, with a little pepper and salt. Add 
less than a cupful of stock, and cook slowly one hour. Turn 
the meat then and cook one hour longer, very slowly. When 
tender, but not ragged, brown, rub with butter and keep hot. 
Strain the gravy; thicken with browned flour; season, boil 
up, and pour over the meat. 

STUFFED LEG OF MUTTON 

Have the bone removed, tearing as little as possible. Fill 
the cavity with a dressing of a cupful of breadcrumbs 
worked up with butter, two tablespoonfuls of finely minced 
almonds, pepper, salt, parsley, and a little onion-juice. Sew 
or tie up the gash, that the stuffing may not escape. Have 
ready in your roaster a carrot cut into dice, a sliced tomato, a 
small onion, minced, a stalk of celery, and a little parsley. 
Lay the mutton upon them, pour over it two cupfuls of 
boiling water, cover closely and cook two hours, basting four 



MEATS 89 

times, Eemove the cover, brown, after basting once with 
butter and sprinkling with pepper, salt, and flour. Kub the 
gravy through the colander, thicken with browned flour and 
send to table in a boat. Mashed or stewed young turnips are 
a good accompanying vegetable. 

LAMB OR MUTTON CHOPS 

Trim off the skin and fat and scrape the bone bare for an 
inch and a half or two inches from the end, making as it 
were a handle for the edible part of the chop. Flatten with 
the potato-beetle or the broad side of a hatchet, and broil 
quickly upon a greased gridiron, turning several times. 
Pepper and salt and send in upon a hot dish, the chops 
overlapping one another neatly. Or, you may ring the 
chops about a mound of green peas or mashed potatoes, 
circling all with parsley or nasturtiums. A showy dish of 
chops is made by twisting frills of fringed white paper about 
the bare bone left at the end of each. 

BREADED CHOPS 

Trim and flatten, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in 
egg and then in cracker-dust, and fry to a fine brown in deep 
boiling fat. Drain and serve dry and hot. 

STUFFED MUTTON CHOPS 

Make a white roux of a tablespoonful of butter and the 
same of flour. When it has thickened well, stir in a scant 
half-cupful of stock; mix thoroughly until it bubbles; add 
half a cupful of chopped almonds, or, if you prefer, mush- 
rooms, and season to taste. Boil up once and let it get cold 
and stiff. The chops should be tender, juicy, and cut twice 
as thick as for ordinary uses. Split each horizontally clear 
to the bone, leaving that to hold it together, and fill the slit 



90 MEATS 

with the cold paste. Close the sides upon it and quilt a 
wooden toothpick through the edges to hold them together, 
and broil slowly over clear coals, turning often for ten min- 
utes. Withdraw the skewers, and dish upon a bed of green 
peas. 

ROAST LEG OF IAMB 

Put into the covered roaster, dash a cupful of boiling 
water over it, cover and cook about fifteen minutes to the 
pound. Twenty minutes before taking it up, take off the 
cover, rub all over with butter, dredge with pepper, salt, and 
flour, and brown. Serve with mint sauce. Green peas are 
always the nicest accompanying vegetable with mutton and 
lamb. Asparagus is the next choice. 

BOILED MTJTTOH 

Plunge the meat into a kettle of salted water that is 
boiling hard; lift it for fifteen minutes to the side of the 
range. After this cook slowly fifteen minutes to the pound. 
Half an hour before you are ready to serve it, drop in a 
minced carrot, a turnip, a small onion — both sliced — a stick 
of celery and a little parsley, also a sprig of mint, and let all 
cook together. Take up the meat, wash over with butter and 
keep covered and hot. Strain out enough of the liquor to 
serve as a foundation for a white sauce, and set away the 
rest for soup stock. Set the reserved liquor in cold water 
to throw up the fat, skim, and thicken with a white roux; 
stir in a great spoonful of capers and serve in a boat. Lamb 
should never be boiled. 

STEWED LAMB AND GEEEN PEAS 

Buy three pounds of the coarser parts of the lamb ; cut into 
inch lengths and dredge with flour. Have ready in a sauce- 



MEATS 91 

pan two tablespoonfuls of good dripping, and when it hisses 
put in half a sliced onion, and fry to a light brown. Skim 
out the onion and put in the meat, cooking for five minutes 
and turning often to keep it from sticking to the bottom 
of the pan. Then add a cupful of boiling water, or weak 
stock, cover closely and cook gently for one hour. Add 
then a generous cupful of green peas. Canned will do, but 
the fresh are better. Stew for twenty minutes longer, or 
until the peas are tender, add a tablespoonful of brown 
roux, boil up once, and pour upon slices of toast that have 
been soaked in hot tomato sauce. A cheap and a savory 
dish. 

IRISH STEW 

Cut three pounds of mutton, w'hieh must be lean, into 
pieces of uniform size, and not more than an inch square. 
Heat two tablespoonfuls of butter or beef dripping in a 
saucepan, browTi a large sliced onion in it and put in the 
meat. Turn it over and over until coated with the fat, and 
slightly browned, add enough cold water to cover the meat 
an inch deep, put on a tightly fitting top, and stew two hours, 
or until the meat is very tender. Have ready in another 
vessel four potatoes, sliced thin, a carrot cut into dice, a 
tomato cut into bits, a stalk of celery minced, and a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley. Cook fifteen minutes, drain 
off and throw away the water, put the parboiled vegetables 
into the stew and season to taste. Cook very gently half an 
hour longer, take up meat and vegetables with a perforated 
spoon and arrange upon a flat dish, the meat in the centre, 
the vegetables on the outside. Cover and keep hot. Add to 
the gravy in the saucepan a cupful of canned or fresh peas 
boiled tender ("left-overs" will do), with half a cupful of 
hot milk in which has been stirred a teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, cook five minutes and pour over the meat and vege- 
tables. 



92 MEATS 

amSHEOOM CHOPS 

1 doz. French chops. Salt and pepper. 

3 cepes (large mushrooms). Cracker dust. 
1 egg. beaten. Fat for frying. 

Flatten and trim the chops, divide each eepe into four 
strips, make a hole "with the point of a knife in the thickest 
part of each chop and thrust through it a slice of the mush- 
room. Pepper and salt, dip in raw beaten egg, coat with 

cracker-crumbs and set in a cold place for one hour. Fry 
them in deep fat to a fine brown. 

hu:ntees* beef 

Take a round of beef, bone and bind tight; if large rub 
into it a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, powdered: let it 
stand a day: then season it with half a pound of common 
salt, one ounce of black pepper, half a pound of brown sugar 
and an ounce of allspice ; a little cayenne is an improvement ; 
let it remain in the pickle a fortnight, turning it every day, 
(and about three times a week add a small quantity of com- 
mon saltl then wash off the salt and spice and put in a 
granite or tin dishpan deep enough to cover the beef entirely ; 
lay some beef suet at the bottom and a great deal at the top ; 
put in a pint of water and cover it with a thick crust, seven 
or eight hours will bake it; when it comes out of the oven 
I>our off the gravy; do not cut it till cold; it will keep good 
three months. 

BOILED HAK (YrRGDTLA STYIE) 

For a twelve-pound ham, take a cup of molasses, one cup 
of Tinegar and a few pieces of stick cinnamon, and stir these 
ingredients into the water in which the ham is to be boHed- 
Then put in the ham and boil slowly three hours. Leave the 



MEATS 93 

ham in the water until it is lukewarm. Then take it out and 
skin. Cover with breadcrumbs and put in a pan in the 
oven, \s-ith one cup of \-inegar. and bake one hour. 

JELLIED VEAL 

Cover with water and cook a shank of veal slowly untU 
the meat comes easily from the bones. Season with salt and 
pepper. Meanwhile hard -boil two eggs; chill in cold water. 
Moisten a mould, cut the eggs in slices and lay in the bottom. 
Take out the bones and gristle and pour the remainder on 
the eggs. Put in a cool place, or on ice, and it will jelly 
quickly. 

UVEE AND inJSHKOOMS 

^ lb. of calf's liver. 3 oz. bacon. 

1 lb, mushrooms. 1 oz. flour. 

Fry the liver and bacon and the mushrooms separately. 
Put all into a stew-pan with half a pint of stock and simmer 
for one hour and serve with fried bread. 

STEWED KIDNEYS, WITH WINE 

Slice the kidneys, after they have been soaked in cold 
water; wipe dry and roll in flour. Have ready in a sauce- 
pan a little butter in which has been fried a slice of onion. 
Lay in the kidneys; roll them over and over, coating them 
with the butter, for two minutes — no more — and pour in a 
cupful of boiling water or heated stock. Simmer not longer 
than ten or twelve minutes. Take them up and lay upon a 
hot dish ; add to the gravy a tablespoonf ul of catsup, a dash 
of paprica or cayenne, and salt, a small tablespoanful of 
butter that has been rolled in browned flour, and when it has 
boiled up, a generous glass of sherry or claret. Pour over 
the kidnevs and serve. 



94 MEATS 

DEVILED KIDNEYS 

Slice and take out hard centres and fat. Have ready, 
beaten to a cream, a tablespoonful of butter, an even tea- 
spoonful of mustard, a pinch of paprica or cayenne, a little 
salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Melt, without really 
heating the mixture; coat each slice with it, roll in cracker- 
dust, and broil, turning often. They should be done in eight 
minutes. Put a few drops of the deviled sauce upon each, 
and send to table. 

KIDNDYS WITH BACON 

Split lamb kidneys in half and fasten open with tooth- 
picks. Cook in a frying-pan thin slices of fat breakfast 
bacon until clear, but not crisped. Take up and keep hot 
while you cook the kidneys in the bacon-fat, turning them 
frequently. Six minutes should make them tender. Long 
cooking toughens them. Arrange upon thin slices of toast 
a dish, garnish with the bacon, add a teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce to the gravy and pour over the kid- 
neys. 

TOASTED IQDNEYS 

Cut each one of three kidneys into three pieces, and lay 
upon a very hot tin plate in front of a hot fire, where a clear 
glow will fall upon them. Have ready thin slices of fat 
bacon, hold each slice upon a fork close to the red grate so 
that the gravy will drip upon a slice of kidney below. Hav- 
ing toasted all the bacon, lay it upon a second hot plate, tak- 
ing up the first and draining off every drop of gravy over the 
bacon. Now toast the kidneys over the bacon. When no 
more juice drips from each kidney it is done. Lay each in 
turn upon a slice of toast, in a hot dish, garnish with the 
pork, sprinkle with pepper and pour the gravy over the 
kidneys. Serve hot. 



MEATS 95 

STUFFED E3DNEYS 

Split the kidneys lengthwise, leaving enough meat and 
skin on one side to serve as a hinge. Rub well inside with 
melted butter, and broil them, back downward, over a bright 
fire for eight minutes. Have ready a stuffing of bread 
crumbs, cooked salt pork, parsley and butter, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and onion- juice. Heat in a double boiler, stir 
in the juice of a half a lemon, fill the kidneys with the mix- 
ture, run a toothpick through the outer edges or lips to keep 
in the stuffing, pepper them and serve with sauce piquante. 

BOSTON PORK AND BEANS 

Soak the beans over night in cold water, changing this in 
the morning for warm, an hour later for hot. Put over the 
fire half an hour afterwards, in boiling salted water, and 
cook until tender, but not broken. Drain them then, and 
put into a deep dish or bean-pot, bury a piece of pork (par- 
boiled) in the centre. Stir into a large cupful of boiling 
water half a teaspoonful of dry mustard, half as much ex- 
tract of celery or celery salt, and a tablespoonful of molasses, 
and pour this over the pork and beans. Cover closely, set 
in the oven and bake slowly from four to six hours accord- 
ing to size of the pot. This is the best recipe for the prepara- 
tion of an ancient and honorable dish. In olden times the 
bean-pot stood all of Saturday night in the brick oven, and 
was in mellow prime at breakfast time on the Sabbath day. 
Serv-e Boston brown bread with it always. The two are 
indissolubly wedded. 

ROAST PORK 

The leg, the loin, the shoulder, and the chine are usually 
roasted, and the method is the same with each. The skin is 
scored in squares, or in parallel lines, the knife just cutting 
through to the flesh. Put into the roaster, dash a cup of 
boiling water over it ; heat gradually until the fat begins to 



96 MEATS 

run, when quicken the fire. Baste often and abundantly, 
that the skin may be tender, even when crisp. Allow at 
least twenty minutes to the pound. The old-fashioned Vir- 
ginia cook — and there was none better in her day — rubbed 
well into the deep lines made by the knife in the rind a 
force-meat of crumbs, sage and onions, seasoned with pepper, 
salt, a little grated lemon-peel, and the juice of a lemon. 
This was done before the meat went into the oven and the 
cracks were well filled. Serve apple sauce with roast pork, 
or Chili sauce, or catsup, or a good bread sauce. Sharp 
condiments go well with it and arouse the digestive organs to 
their work. 

PORK CHOPS 

r 

Cut off the skin, trim neatly and dip in beaten egg, ihen 
in cracker-crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, powdered 
sage, and finely minced onion. Set in a cold place for an 
hour or more and fry in hot fat, turning often, for at least 
twenty minutes. Send in dry and hot, and serve with apple 
sauce. 

PORK STEAKS AND TENDERLOINS 

Broil over a clear fire, turning every two minutes for 
twenty or twenty-five minutes. Lay upon a hot dish and 
dust with pepper and salt and powdered sage. Sprinkle 
with onion-juice and with lemon-juice, and drop bits of but- 
ter here and there. Cover closely over hot water for ten 
minutes before sending to table. 



SPARE RIBS 

Cook pork spare ribs exactly as you would pork steaks, 
also pork cutlets. 



MEATS 97 

POKK POT-PIE 

2 lbs. of pork. Pepper, salt. 

2 slices peeled lemon. A little chopped parsley and 

4 potatoes. celery. 

1 tablespoonful catsup. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

Cut pork into pieces an inch long and half an inch wide ; 
cover with cold water, put in slices of peeled lemon, chopped 
parsley and minced celery, and stew slowly half an hour. 
Add potatoes, sliced very thin and parboiled for ten minutes 
in another vessel, and catsup. Season with pepper and salt 
and dredge in a tablespoonful of flour. Cover closely and 
cook until the meat is ready to drop to pieces. Stir in a 
tablespoonful of butter, rolled in flour, boil up and put the 
pork into a covered deep dish, leaving the gravy in the 
saucepan. Have ready some strips of biscuit-dough, two 
inches long and half an inch wide, drop them into the boiling 
gravy and cook ten minutes. Lay half of them across the 
meat in one direction, the rest in another, making squares 
all over it; pour in the gravy gently and send to table; or 
you can cut the biscuit-dough round with a cake-cutter and 
bake these rounds in the oven by the time the pork-stew is 
done. Put meat and gravy upon a deep platter and cover 
with the hot biscuits laid closely together. They are more 
wholesome than boiled dough. 

YORKSHIRE PORK-PIE 

Chop lean pork somewhat coarsely ; butter a pudding-dish 
and line with a good paste ; put in the pork interspersed with 
minced onion and hard-boiled eggs, cut into bits and sprinkle 
with pepper, salt, and powdered sage. Now and then dust 
with flour and drop in a bit of butter. When all the meat 
is in, dredge with flour and stick small pieces of butter quite 
thickly all over it. Cover with puff-paste, cut a slit in the 



98 MEATS 

middle of the crust and bake half an hour for each pound of 
meat. "When it begins to brown, wash the crust with the 
white of an egg. It will give a fine gloss to it as well as 
preserve the juices. 

ENTREE (BAVARIAN STYLE) 

f lb. beef collops. 1 small onion, 

i lb. sausage. Salt and pepper. 

1 egS- 

Form into croquettes. Have some half-boiled leaves of 
cabbage, wrap each croquette in one large leaf, completely 
covering the meat, tie firmly and fry slowly in lard and 
butter (half and half) until brown on both sides. Serve 
on a flat platter wath gravy poured over, which may be in- 
creased by addition of a little boiling water. 

HAMBURG STEAK (AS MADE IN HAMBURG) 

Procure some thin slices of beef from a round (uncooked). 
Pound a little to tender. Divide into portions the size of 
your hand. On each portion strew a little thyme, or savory, 
a little pepper, a dust of salt and some pounded onions. 
Have a portion of veal kidney suet and form the bits of beef 
into rolls with a bit of kidney suet in the inside. Tie with 
twine, or if possible darn little silver skewers into the flap 
of each steak to keep rolled. Dust in flour and place in a 
frjdng-pan with some butter or nice dripping; roll the steak 
so that each side may get brown. Then carefully pour in 
a cupful of boiling water, cover the frying-pan tight and 
set on some part of range where the steaks may cook very 
slowly. Turn out in ten minutes or longer on a very hot 
dish and pour gravy over them. A little more gravy may 
be supplied by browning some flour after lifting the steaks 
and thinning with boiling water. 



MEATS OD 

BOILED HAM 

The best ham to select is one weighing from eight to ten 
pounds. Take one that is not too fat, to save waste. Soak 
all night ; wash it carefully before you put it on to boil, re- 
moving rust or mould with a small, stiff scrubbing-brush. 
Lay it in a large boiler and pour over it enough cold water 
to cover it. To this add a bay-leaf, half a dozen cloves, a 
couple of blades of mace, a teaspoonful of sugar, and, if you 
can get it, a good handful of fresh, sweet hay. Let the water 
heat very gradually, not reaching the boil under two hours. 
It should never boil hard, but simmer gently until the ham 
has cooked fifteen minutes to every pound. It must cool in 
the liquor, and the skin should not be removed until the 
meat is entirely cold, taking care not to break or tear the 
fat. Brush over the ham with beaten egg, strew it thickly 
with very fine bread crumbs, or fine cracker-dust, and brown 
in a quick oven. Arrange a frill of paper around the bone 
of the shank, and surround the meat with watercress, or 
garnish the dish with parsley. 

STUITED HAM 

Soak the ham over night and scrub well in the morning, 
tun a narrow sharp knife along the bone, loosening the 
i>\eat for the whole length; shake and pull the bone while 
doing this until you can withdraw it. Then dig out the 
flat bone from the butt-end of the ham. With a fair degree 
of patience the process is not difficult. Fill the cavity left 
by the bones with a stuffing of breadcrumbs, seasoned with 
pepper, butter, onion, and Worcestershire sauce. Pack it in 
well and sew the ham tightly into shape in mosquito-netting. 
Cover with cold water in which have been stirred two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, and cook twenty minutes to the pound 
after the boil begins. Leave the ham in the water until it 
is lukewarm, take it out and put to press under an inverted 



100 MEATS 

dish with a heavy weight on top. Leave it thus for eight or 
ten hours ; take off the cloth, and then the skin. Dot the top 
with black pepper, or Hungarian sweet red pepper (paprica), 
using the tip of the middle finger to make the impressions. 
If you can arrange the dots in a pattern the effect will be 
pleasing. Send to table surrounded by a garland of aspara- 
gus tops and nasturtium flowers, or parsley and marigolds. 
This is a delightful preparation of ham, suitable for luncheon 
or Sunday evening suppers. 

BAKED HAM 

Soak, wash, and parboil the ham, twelve minutes to the 
pound. Skin as soon as you can handle it, and staunch the 
flow of juices by rubbing flour into it. Put into a good 
oven ; slice an onion, mince a carrot and a fresh tomato, and 
lay about the meat, pour in half a cupful of hot water to 
prevent burning, cover closely, and bake twelve minutes to 
the pound. During this time baste the ham four times with 
Madeira or sherry or other pale wine, using two glasses in 
all, and four times with the pan-gravy. Have ready some 
browned cracker-crumbs and sift them thickly over the ham 
when done. Leave it iu the oven until firm and evenly 
colored. 

If the ham is eaten hot, make a sauce by rubbing the 
gravy through a colander and thickening it with browned 
flour. If cold, put aside the pan-liquor for sauce for some 
other dish. It is too good to be wasted. Champagne sauce 
is an excellent accompaniment to baked ham. 

CORNED BEEF HASH 

Chop fine cold boiled corned beef; to one pint meat add 
one pint and a little more of cold boiled potatoes, chopped, 
though not too fine ; a little onion can be used if liked ; have 
ready a pan with a good piece of butter in it, put in hash, 



MEATS 101 

season with pepper and salt, then add rich milk or cream, 
enough to moisten. Cover and make hot. 

BEEF LOAF 

Three pounds of beefsteak, chopped fine; fifteen soda 
biscuits (well rolled), half a cupful of sweet milk, half a 
cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of salt and pepper, two 
eggs. Mix well in a loaf and bake two hours. 

RIS LE VEAU A CAS STJPREME 

Steep the sweetbreads in water for an hour ; then blanch 
them, and press between two dishes. When cold, cut away 
any sinews or fat, and place them in a stew-pan with a little 
onion, celery, and stock of white sauce. Braise for twenty 
or thirty minutes, then take out of saucepan and put into the 
oven to brown, and baste with its own liquor. Serve on 
fried bread, sauce around with truffles and mushrooms or 
peas. 

TO GLAZE A HAM OR TONGUE 

Put one ounce of glaze and one tablespoonful of boiling 
water into saucepan over fire till melted, and brush it over 
ham or tongue; two coats if not dark enough. Beat one 
quartei of a pound of butter to a cream. Put into icing 
tubes and ornament with it. 

DEVILED KIDNEYS 

Cut the kidneys in thin round slices, cover them with 
cold water; let stand half an hour, then wash them clean 
and put in stew-pan with one quart of water or stock, a 
clove, four teaspoonfuls of onion-juice, salt and pepper. 
Simmer two hours or longer if not tender. Set away, and 
for breakfast put one tablespoonful of butter in frying-pan ; 



102 MEATS 

when hot add one tablespoonful of flour. Stir till brown 
and smooth. 

GALANTINE OF VEAL 

5 lbs. breast of veal. Salt, pepper and nutmeg. 

1 lb. sausage meat. Glaze: — 

A few walnuts. J oz. gelatine, 

A little cooked ham or tongue, 1 cup stock. 

^ lb, grated breadcrumbs, A drop of carmine. 

Bones taken from the veal. Mix with the sausage meat 
the breadcrumbs, nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put half in 
the veal, then some ham cut in long strips, then walnuts, 
then more sausage meat, then ham and walnuts. Tuck the 
veal over it and sew up. Tie up in a cloth very firmly at 
ends and stitch cloth at top. Put into boiling water and 
boil for two and a half hours. After it is boiled put be- 
tween two boards to press. 

Glaze for Galantine. — Half ounce gelatine, one cup of 
stock, a drop of carmine. Brush the veal over with this 
glaze two or three times. 



VEAL PATTY 

3 lbs. of veal or beef chop- 1 teaspoonful of pepper. 

ped fine. 1 tablespoonful of salt. 

5 tablespoonfuls of cracker- -J cup milk or cream. 

crumbs. 2 eggs, beaten. 
1 tablespoonful of melted 

butter. 

]\Iix, form into a loaf and cover with cracker-crumbs ; put 
in the oven, with a little water in the pan for two hours. 
Baste occasionally. 



MEATS 103 

SWEETBREADS BREADED WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

4 eggs. Breadcrumbs. 

1 tablespoonful flour. Lard for frying. 

A little salt and pepper. 

Prepare a batter of eggs, flour, and pepper and salt, beat 
well together, turn the sweetbreads in this batter until they 
are all covered with it, turning them afterwards in cracker 
dust or dry breadcrumbs ; fry in hot boiling lard to a fine 
light brown color. Serve with tomato sauce. 

MAYOimAISE OF SWEETBREADS 

(To be served cold.) 

Boil a pair of sweetbreads (after blanching) for a few 
minutes in some good veal stock, then put them to get cold 
and cut into small round pieces; they must then be placed 
in a stewpan with pepper, salt, mace and a very small piece 
of garlic, and a half a pint or a little more of the stock 
they were first cooked in, and a quarter of an ounce of leaf 
gelatine ; and then it should simmer very steadily for fifteen 
minutes or so. The pieces should then be placed separately 
in a shallow dish, and the gravy in which they have been 
simmered should be poured over them. When they have 
set quite firmly they should be covered thickly with a mayon- 
naise. When quite cold, ornament according to taste : such 
as aspic or savory jelly, with beet-root, hard-boiled egg, cut 
into fancy shapes and placed over the dish; a little green 
sets the dish off well. 



104 MEATS 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



MEATS 105 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



106 MEATS 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



MEATS 107 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



POULTRY AND GAME 

In choosing poultry, select those that are fresh and fat, 
and the surest way to determine whether they are young, is 
to try the skin under the leg or wing. If it is easily broken, 
it is young; or, turn the wing backwards; if the joint yields 
readily it is tender. When poultry is young the skin is thin 
and tender, the legs smooth, the feet moist and limber, and 
the eyes full and bright. The body should be thick and the 
breast fat. Old turkeys have long hairs, and the flesh is 
purplish where it shows under the skin on the legs and back. 
About March they deteriorate in quality. 

Young ducks and geese are plump, with light, semi-trans- 
parent fat, soft breast bone, tender flesh, leg-joints which 
wdll break by the weight of the bird, fresh-colored and brittle 
beaks, and wind-pipes that break when pressed between the 
thumb and forefinger. They are best in fall and winter. 

Young pigeons have light red flesh upon the breast, and 
full, fresh-colored legs ; when the legs are thin and the breast 
very dark the birds are old. 

Fine game birds are always heavy for their size ; the flesh 
of the breast is firm and plump, and the skin clear; and if 
a few feathers be plucked from the inside of the leg and 
around the vent, the flesh of freshly-killed birds will be fat 
and fresh-colored ; if it is dark and discolored, the game has 
been hung a long time. The wings of good ducks, geese, 
pheasants, and woodcock are tender to the touch ; the tips 
of the long wing feathers of partridges are pointed in young 
birds and round in old ones. Quail, snipe and small birds 
should have full, tender breasts. Poultry should never be 
cooked until six or eight hours after it has been killed, but 

108 



POULTRY AKD GAME 109 

it should be picked and drawn as soon as possible. Plunge 
it in a pot of scalding hot water ; then pluck off the feathers, 
taking care not to tear the skin ; when it is picked clean, roll 
up a piece of white paper, set fire to it, and singe off all the 
hairs. 

Fowls, and also various kinds of game, when bought at 
our city markets, require a more thorough cleansing than 
those sold in country places, where as a general thing the 
meat is wholly dressed. In large cities they lay for some 
length of time with the intestines undrawn, until the flavor 
of them diffuses itself all through the meat, rendering it 
distasteful. In this case, it is safe after taking out the in- 
testines, to rinse out in several waters, and in next to the 
last water, add a teaspoouf ul of baking soda ; say to a quart 
of water. This process neutralizes all sourness, and helps to 
destroy all unpleasant taste in the meat. 

Poultry may be baked so that its wings and legs are soft 
and tender, by being placed in a deep roasting pan with 
close cover, thereby retaining the aroma and essences by 
absorption w^iile confined. These pans are a recent innova- 
tion, and are made double with a small opening in the top 
for giving vent to the accumulation of steam and gases when 
required. Roast meats of any kind can also be cooked in the 
same manner, and it is a great improvement on the old plan. 

ROAST TURKEY 

Select a young turkey; remove all the feathers carefully, 
singe it over a burning newspaper on the top of the stove; 
then "draw" it nicely, being very careful not to break any 
of the internal organs ; remove the crop carefully ; cut off 
the neck close to the body. Now rinse the inside of the 
turkey out with several waters, and in the next to the last, 
mix a teaspoonful of baking soda ; oftentimes the inside of a 
fowl is very sour, especially if it is not freshly killed. Now, 
after washing, wipe the turkey dry, inside and out, with a 



no POULTRY AND GAME 

clean cloth, rub the inside with some salt, then stuff the 
breast and body with "Dressing for Fowls." Then sew up 
the turkey with a strong thread, tie the legs and wings to 
the body, rub it over with a little soft butter, sprinkle over 
some salt and pepper, dredge with a little flour ; place it in a 
dripping pan, pour in a cup of boiling water, and set it in 
the oven. Baste the turkey often, turning it round occa- 
sionally so that every part will be uniformly baked. When 
pierced with a fork and the liquid runs out perfectly clear, 
the bird is done. If any part is likely to scorch, pin over it 
a piece of buttered white paper. A fifteen-pound turkey re- 
quii'es between three and four hours to bake. Serve with 
cranberry sauce. 

Gravy for Turkey. — When you put the turkey in to roast 
put the neck, heart, liver and gizzard into a stew-pan with 
a pint of water; boil until they become quite tender; take 
them out of the water, chop the heart and gizzard, mash the 
liver and throw away the neck; return the chopped heart, 
gizzard and liver to the liquor in which they were stewed ; 
set to one side, and when the turkey is done it should be 
added to the gravy that dripped from the turkey, having 
first poured off the fat from the surface of the dripping- 
pan; set it all over the fire, boil three minutes and thicken 
with flour. It will not need brown flour to color the gravy. 
The garnishes for turkey or chicken are fried oysters, rashers 
of bacon, slices of lemon, fried sausages, force-meat balls, 
also parsley. 

BOILED TURKEY 

Prepare as you would for baking or roasting ; fill with an 
oyster stuffing, made as the above. Tie the legs and wings 
close to the body, place in salted boiling water with the breast 
downward ; skim it off and boil about two hours, but not till 
the skin breaks. Serve with oyster or celery sauce. Boil a 
nicely pickled piece of salt pork, and serve at table a thin 



POULTRY AND GAME 111 

slice to each plate. Some prefer bacon or ham instead of 
pork. Some roll the turkey in a cloth dipped in flour. If 
the liquor is to be used afterwards for soup, the cloth im- 
parts an unpleasant flavor. The liquid can be saved and 
made into a nice soup for the next day's dinner, by adding 
the same seasonings as for chicken soup and rice, barley, or 
macaroni. 

SCALLOPED TURKEY 

Pick the meat from the bones of cold turkey, and chop 
it fine. Put a layer of bread crumbs on the bottom of a but- 
tered dish, moisten them with a little milk, then put in a 
layer of turkey with some of the stuffing, and cut small 
pieces of butter over the top ; sprinkle with pepper and 
salt; then another layer of bread crumbs, and so until the 
dish is nearly full; add a little hot water to the gravy left 
from the turkey and pour over it; then take two eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of milk, one of melted butter, a little salt and 
cracker crumbs as much as will make it thick enough to 
spread on with a knife ; put bits of butter over it, and cover 
with a plate. Bake three-quarters of an hour. Ten min- 
utes before serving, remove the plate and let it brown. 

TTJRKEY HASHED 

Cut the remnants of turkey from a previous dinner into 
pieces of equal size. Boil the bones in a quart of water, 
until the quart is reduced to a pint ; then take out the bones, 
and to the liquor in which they were boiled add turkey 
gravy, or white stock, or a small piece of butter with salt and 
pepper ; let the liquor thus prepared boil up once ; then put 
in the pieces of turkey, dredge in a little flour, give it one 
boil-up, and serve in a hot dish. 

TURKEY WARMED OVER 

Pieces of cold turkey or chicken may be warmed up with 
a little butter in a frying-pan; place it on a warm platter, 



112 POULTRY AND GAME 

surround it with small thick slices of bread or biscuit 
halved, first dipping them in hot salted water; then place 
the platter in a warm oven with the door open. Have 
already made the following gravy to pour over all. Into the 
frying-pan put a large spoonful of butter, one or two cupfuls 
of milk, and any gravy that may be left over. Bring it to a 
boil; then add sufficient flour, wet in a little cold milk or 
water, to make it the consistency of cream. Season with 
salt, pepper and add a little of the dark meat chopped very 
fine. Let the sauce cook a few moments ; then pour over the 
biscuit and fowl. This will be found a really nice dish. 

BOITED TURKEY 

Clean the fowl as usual. With a sharp and pointed knife, 
begin at the extremity of the wing, and pass the knife down 
close to the bone, cutting off the flesh from the bone, and 
preserving the skin whole; run the knife down each side of 
the breast bone and up the legs, keeping close to the bone; 
then split the back half way up, and draw out the bones ; fill 
the places whence the bones were taken with a stuffing, re- 
storing the fowl to its natural form, and sew up all the inci- 
sions made in the skin. Lard with two or three rows of slips 
of fat bacon on the top, basting often with salt and water, 
and a little butter. Some like a glass of port wine in the 
gravy. This is a difficult dish to attempt by any but skillful 
hands. Carve across in slices, and serve with tomato sauce. 

BLANQUETTE OF TURKEY 

1 qt. cooked turkey cut in 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 

small pieces. 1 cupful milk or cream. 

1 large cup stock. Yolks of four eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter. Salt and pepper. 
1 heaping tablespoonful of flour. 



POULTRY AND GAME 113 

Put the butter in the sauce-pan and when hot add the 
flour; stir until smooth, but not brown; add the stock, and 
cook two minutes; then add the seasoning and cream. As 
soon as this boils up add the turkey ; cook ten minutes. Beat 
the yolks of the eggs with four tablespoonfuls of milk; stir 
into the blanquette; cook about half a minute longer. This 
can be served in a rice or potato border, 

DRESSING OR STUFFING FOR FOWLS 

For an eight or ten-pound turkey, cut the brown crust 
from slices or pieces of stale bread until you have as much as 
the inside of a pound loaf; put it into a suitable dish, and 
pour tepid water (not warm, for that makes it heavy) over 
it; let it stand one minute, as it soaks very quickly. Now 
take up a handful at a time and squeeze it hard and dry 
with both hands, placing it as you go along, in another dish ; 
this process makes it very light. "When all is pressed dry, 
toss it all up lightly through your fingers ; now add pepper, 
salt, — about a teaspoonful — also a teaspoonful of powdered 
summer savory, the same amount of sage, or the green herb 
minced fine; add a little melted butter, and a beaten egg. 
Work thoroughly all together, and it is ready for dressing 
either fowls, fish or meats. A little chopped sausage and 
the finest possible paring of lemon-peel in turkey dressing is 
an improvement, when well incorporated with the other 
ingredients. 

OYSTER DRESSING OR STUFFING 

This is made with the same ingredients as the above, with 
the exception of half a can of oysters drained, and slightly 
chopped and added to the rest. This is used mostly with 
boiled turkey and chicken, and the remainder of the can of 
oysters used to make an oyster sauce to be poured over the 
turkey when served, and also served in a separate dish. 

These recipes were obtained from an old colored cook, who 



114 POULTRY AND GAME 

was famous for his fine dressings for fowls, fish and meats, 
and his advice was, always soak stale bread in cold liquid, 
either milk or water, when used for stuffing or puddings, as 
they were much lighter. Hot liquid makes them heavy. 

ROASTED BONED CHICKEN 

Spread the boned chicken on a board, the skin side down ; 
turn the flesh of the legs and wings right side out, and stuff 
them with force-meat into shape. Equalize the meat as well 
as possible, placing the mignon fillets, or little strips of white 
meat, next the bone, over the dark meat, etc. ; dredge with 
salt and pepper. Make a roll of the stuffing or force-meat 
and lay it in the chicken. Draw the skin up, and sew it to- 
gether securely. Turn it over, place the legs and wings 
into the position of a trussed fowl, press the body into nat- 
ural shape, and tie it securelj^ ; or it may be pressed into the 
form of a duck or rabbit. Cover with slices of salt pork 
and roast in oven, allowing twenty minutes to the pound; 
baste frequently. Remove the pork the last fifteen minutes, 
dredge with flour and let it brown. Serve with giblet or 
tomato sauce. 

BRAISED BONED CHICKEN 

To braise the chicken prepared as above, roll it lightly in 
a piece of cheesecloth, tying the ends well. Put in a sauce- 
pan the bones of the chicken, a slice of carrot and onion, a 
bouquet containing parsley, one bay leaf, three cloves, twelve 
peppercorns, celery if convenient, and a knuckle of veal. 
Add enough water to cover the bed of vegetables and bones ; 
lay in the chicken ; cover the pot, and let it simmer for four 
hours. 

JELLIED BONED CHICKEN 

A braised boned chicken may be served hot, or it may be 
set aside to cool, then jellied as follows: Strain the water in 
which the chicken was braised, and let it cool; then remove 



POULTRY AND GAME 115 

the grease and clarify the liquor; season it highly. If veal 
has been used, and the liquor jellies, it may be used as it is. 
If veal has not been used, add gelatine soaked in cold water, 
observing the proportion of one box of gelatine to one and a 
half quarts of liquor. Mask a mould with jelly; Avhen the 
jelly is set, put in the chicken, and add enough liquid jelly to 
entirely cover it. Or, on the bottom of the mould, make a 
decoration of either truffles, ham, capers, gherkins, or any 
combination suitable; fix it with a thin layer of jelly; when 
hardened, add enough more to make a layer of jelly one- 
quarter of an inch thick, and when that is hardened lay in 
the chicken, and surround it with the liquid jelly. Garnish 
the dish on which the jellied chicken is served with lettuce, 
and serve with it a Mayonnaise, Bearnaise, or Tartare sauce. 
When the chicken is to be jellied, use enough water in the 
braising pot to give three pints of liquor after the cooking is 
done. 

FORCE-MEAT EOR STUFFING BONED FOWLS 

Use the meat of another fowl, or veal, or pork, or a mix- 
ture. Chop them fine, and add to the minced meat one cup- 
ful of bread or cracker crumbs, and, if convenient, a little 
chopped boiled ham or tongue, and a few lardoons of pork. 
Season with the following articles, and moisten the whole 
with stock : One tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one tea- 
spoonful of onion-juice, one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper, 
one teaspoonful thyme, one teaspoonful of salt. If veal is 
used, take it from the knuckle, and use the bone in the brais- 
ing pot, as it will give a good jelly. 

TO TRUSS A FOWL 

When the fowl is wiped, singed, and drawn, put in the 
stuffing ; place a little in the opening at the neck, the rest in 
the body, and sew up the opening. Draw the sldn of the 
neck smoothly down and under the back, press the wings 



116 POULTRY AND GAME 

close against the body, and fold the pinions under, crossing 
the back and holding down the skin of the neck. Press the 
legs close to the body, and slip them under the skin as much 
as possible. Thread the trussing needle with white twine, 
using it double. Press the needle through the wing by the 
middle joint, pass it through the skin of the neck and back, 
and out again at the middle joint of the other wing. Return 
the needle through the bend of the leg at the second joint, 
through the body and out at the same point on the other 
side ; draw the cord tight, and tie it with the end at the wing 
joint. Thread the needle again, and run it through the legs 
and body at the thigh bone, and back at the ends of the drum- 
sticks. Draw the drumstick bones close together, covering 
the opening made for drawing the fowl, and tie the ends. 
Have both knots on the same side of the fowl. When cooked, 
cut the cord on the opposite side, and by the knots it can 
easily be drawn out. 

ROASTED CHICKEN 

A roasted chicken may be stuffed or not. If stuffing is 
used it should only half fill the chicken. Truss it as directed 
above, or use skewers, doubling the cord across the back and 
around the ends of the skewers to hold them in place. A 
roasted or boiled chicken is not presentable, which has not 
been securely fastened into good shape before being cooked. 
Dredge the chicken with salt and pepper, and place it on 
slices of salt pork in a baking-pan ; add a very little water, 
and bake in hot oven, allowing fifteen minutes to the pound ; 
baste frequently. "White meat must be well cooked, but not 
dried. Fifteen minutes before it is done, rub it over the top 
and sides with butter, dredge it with flour, and replace it in 
the oven until it becomes a golden brown and looks crisp. 
Draw out the trussing cords, and garnish with parsley. 
Serve with it a giblet sauce. Do not use a tough chicken for 



POULTRY AND GAME 117 

roasting ; one a year old is about right. A roasting chicken 
may be larded if desired. 

STUFFING FOR FOWLS 

Moisten a cupful of breadcrumbs with a tablespoonful of 
melted butter; season highly with salt, pepper, thyme, 
chopped parsley, and onion-juice; or put in a saucepan a 
tablespoonful of butter and fry in it one minced onion; then 
add one cupful of soaked bread, the water being pressed out, 
one-half cupful of stock, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful each of pepper and thyme, and one-half cupful 
of celery cut into small pieces. Stir it until it leaves the 
sides of the pan. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING 

Shell a quart of large French chestnuts. Put them in hot 
water and boil until the skins are softened; then drain off 
the water and remove the skins. Replace the blanched chest- 
nuts in Avater, and boil until soft. Take out a few at a time, 
and press them through a colander or a potato press. They 
mash more easily when hot. Season the mashed chestnuts 
with a tablespoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Some cooks add a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and moisten it with a little 
stock. Some add, also, a few breadcrumbs. The dressing is 
best seasoned only with butter, salt, and pepper. 

GIBLET SAUCE 

Boil the giblets until tender ; chop them, but not very fine ; 
add a tablespoonful of flour to the pan in which the chicken 
was roasted; let it brown, stirring constantly; add slowly a 
cupful of water in which the giblets were boiled ; season with 
salt and pepper ; strain and add the chopped giblets ; serve in 
a sauceboat. The liver is a tidbit, and should be roasted and 
served with the chicken, instead of being used in the sauce. 



118 POULTRY AND GAME 

BOILED CHICKEN 

A chicken too old to roast is very good when boiled. Truss 
the chicken firmly. It is well also to tie it in a piece of 
cheesecloth, to keep it in good shape. It may be stuffed or 
not. Boiled rice seasoned with butter, pepper and salt, or 
celery cut in small pieces, is better to use for boiled chicken 
than bread stuffing. Put the chicken into boiling salted 
water and simmer, allowing twenty minutes to the pound; 
when done, remove the cloth and cords carefully, spread a 
little white sauce over the breast, and sprinkle it with 
chopped parsley. Garnish with parsley, and serve with it 
egg, oyster, or Bearnaise sauce. 

BRAISED CHICKEN 

A fowl too old to roast may be made tender and good by 
braising, and present the same appearance as a roasted 
chicken. Prepare it as for roasting, trussing it into good 
shape. Cut into dice a carrot, turnip, onion, and stalk of 
celery ; put them in a pot with a few slices of salt pork, and 
on them place the fowl, with a few pieces of salt pork laid 
over the breast ; add a bouquet of parsley, one bay-leaf, three 
cloves, six peppercorns, also a teaspoonful of salt, and a pint 
of hot water. Cover the pot closely and let simmer for three 
hours. If any steam escapes, a little more water may have 
to be added. When done, rub a little butter over the breast, 
dredge with flour, and place in the oven a few minutes to 
brown. Strain the liquor from the braising pot, season to 
taste, and if necessary thicken with a little butter and flour 
browned ; serve it with the chicken as sauce. 

BROILED CHICKEN 

Young spring chickens only are used for broiling. Split 
them down the back, remove the entrails and the breast bone, 
wipe them clean, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and rub them 



POULTRY AND GAME 119 

with soft butter. Place them on a broiler over a slow fire, 
the inside down; cover with a pan, and let cook for twenty 
minutes to twenty-five minutes. Turn, to let the skin side 
brown when nearly done. Place them on a hot dish, and 
spread them with maitre d 'hotel butter ; garnish with parsley 
or watercress and thin slices of lemon. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

Cut a chicken into eleven pieces; two drumsticks, two 
second joints, two wings, two breasts, three back pieces. Put 
the pieces in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of butter 
or drippings ; let them brown slightly on both sides, but use 
care that they do not burn ; when a little colored, add enough 
boiling water to cover them ; add a bouquet of herbs, salt and 
pepper, and a few slices of salt pork. Simmer until tender. 
Arrange the pieces neatly on a dish, using the best ones out- 
side, and pour over them a gravy made as follows: Strain 
the liquor from the pot and take off the fat. Make a white 
sauce of one tablespoonful of butter and two of flour and a 
cupful of the liquor from the pot; season to taste; remove 
from the fire, and when a little cool add a cupful of cream 
or milk beaten up with two or three yolks of eggs. Place 
again on the fire until the eggs are a little thickened, but do 
not let it boil, or they will curdle. A tablespoonful of sherry 
may be added, if liked, or a half can of mushrooms. A bor- 
der of rice may be placed around the chicken, or sippets of 
toast used. 

To make a brown fricassee, sprinkle the pieces of chicken, 
after they are simmered until tender, with salt, pepper, and 
flour, and place them in the oven to brown. Make a brown 
instead of a white sauce, and omit the cream or milk. 

CHICKEN SAUTE, A LA WEBB 

Secure a nice plump young chicken, clean and cut into 
pieces, not too small; flour them and saute in good butter 



120 POULTRY AND GAME 

until of a nice golden brown color; mince half clove of 
garlic very fine, also quarter pod green peppers and cook 
in butter for five minutes. Mix sufficient flour to absorb 
butter, and moisten with half a pint of strong chicken broth ; 
stew with a few carrots and turnips cut into small diamond 
shapes until tender; season with salt, and serve on platter 
with Saratoga chip border sprinkled with French peas. 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Cut a tender chicken in pieces; dip the pieces in water; 
sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and roll them in flour; 
saute them in a tablespoonful of lard or butter, browning 
both sides ; then remove and add to the " mi a tables2:)Oonf ul 
of flour; cook it for a minute without browning, stirring all 
the time, and add a cupful of milk or cream ; stir until it is 
a little thickened; strain; mix into it a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley. Place the sauce on the serving-dish and 
arrange the pieces of chicken on it. 

STUFFED CHICKEN OR TURKEY LEGS 

Carefully remove the tendons and bone from the drum- 
sticks, all but about an inch and a half at the small end. 
Stuff the leg with a force-meat made of chicken or veal 
chopped very fine, and use with it the liver and a little strip 
of larding pork; season it with salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley, and moisten it with one egg. Drav/ the skin over 
the end and sew it closely together, keeping the shape as nat- 
ural as possible. Lay the stuffed legs in a baking-pan ; cover 
with boiling water, and simmer an hour, or until tender ; re- 
move them from the water, press them into shape, and let 
cool. When cold, take out the stitches, dredge with salt and 
pepper, roll in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in hot 
fat until browned ; or broil them on both sides four minutes, 
if chicken; six minutes, if turkey legs; or they may be 



POULTRY AND GAME 121 

sauted in butter. They may be deviled by rubbing them 
with mustard and a little red pepper before coating with the 
eggs and crumbs. Serve them arranged like chops, the bones 
masked with paper frills. If preferred, the bones may 
be entirely removed, and the leg flattened to look like 
a cutlet. This can be done by placing them under a weight 
to cool after being boiled. Serve with an olive, Bearnaise, 
Tartare, or any sauce preferred. 

GRILLED CHICKEN BONES 

Take the wings, second joints, and drumsticks of cold 
cooked chicken; dip them in melted butter, sprinkle them 
with salt and pepper, and broil them until they are very hot 
and well browned. 

BROILED CHICKEN ON TOAST 

Broil the usual way, and when thoroughly done take it up 
in a square tin or dripping pan, butter it well, season with 
pepper and salt, and set in the oven a few minutes, lay slices 
of moistened toast on a platter, take the chicken up over it, 
add to the gravy in the pan part of a cupful of cream, if you 
have it; if not, use milk. Thicken with a little flour and 
pour over the chicken. This is considered most excellent. 

CURRIED CHICKEN 

Cut up a chicken weighing from a pound and a half to 
two pounds, as for fricassee, wash it well, and put it in a 
stewpan with sufficient water to cover it ; boil it closely cov- 
ered, until tender ; add a large teaspoonful of salt, and cook 
a few minutes longer; then remove from the fire, take out 
the chicken, pour the liquor into a bowl, and set it one side. 
Now cut up into the stewpan two small onions, and fry them 
with a piece of butter as large as an egg ; as soon as the onions 



122 POULTRY AND GAME 

are brown, skim them out and put in the chicken; fry for 
three or four minutes ; next sprinkle over two teaspoonf uls of 
curry powder. Now pour over the liquor in which the 
chicken was stewed, stir all well together, and stew for five 
minutes longer, then stir into this a tablespoonful of sifted 
flour made thin with a little water ; lastly, stir in a beaten 
yolk of egg, and it is done. Serve with hot boiled rice laid 
round on the edge of a platter, and the chicken curry in the 
centre. This makes a handsome side dish, and a fine relish 
accompanying a full dinner of roast beef or any roast. 

All first-class grocers and druggists keep ''India Curry 
Powder," put up in bottles. Beef, veal, mutton, duck, pi- 
geons, partridges, rabbits or fresh fish may be substituted 
for the chicken, if preferred, and sent to the table with or 
without a dish of rice. 

To Boil Rice for Curry. — Pick over the rice, a cupful. 
Wash it thoroughly in two or three cold waters; then leave 
it about twenty minutes in cold water. Put into a stewpan 
two quarts of water with a teaspoonful of salt in it, and 
when it boils, sprinkle in the rice. Boil it briskly for twenty 
minutes, keeping the pan covered. Take it from the fire, 
and drain off the Avater. Afterwards set the saucepan on the 
back of the stove, wath the lid off, to allow the rice to dry 
and the grains to separate. Rice, if properly boiled, should 
be soft and white, and every grain stand alone. Serve it hot 
in a separate dish or laid round the chicken curry. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE 

Cut and joint a large chicken, cover with cold water, and 
let it boil gently until tender. Season with salt and pepper, 
and thicken the gravy with two tablespoonfuls of flour, mixed 
smooth with a piece of butter the size of an egg. Have ready 
nice light bread-dough ; cut with the top of a wineglass about 
half an inch thick ; let them stand half an hour and rise, then 



POULTRY AND GAME 123 

drop these into the boiling gravy. Put the cover on the pot 
closely, wrap a cloth around it, in order that no steam shall 
escape ; and bj^ no means allow the pot to cease boiling. Boil 
three-quarters of an hour. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE 

This style of pot-pie was made more in our grandmother's 
day than now, as most cooks consider that cooking crust so 
long destroys its spongy lightness, and renders it too hard 
and dry. 

Take a pair of fine fowls ; cut them up, wash the pieces, 
and season with pepper only. Make a light biscuit dough, 
and plenty of it, as it is alwaj^s much liked by the eaters of 
pot-pie. Roll out the dough not very thin, and cut most of 
it into long squares. Butter the sides of a pot, and line them 
with dough nearly to the top. Lay slices of cold ham at the 
bottom of the pot, and then the pieces of fowl, interspersed 
all through with squares of dough and potatoes, pared and 
quartered. Pour in a quart of water. Cover the whole with 
a lid of dough, having a slit in the centre, through which the 
gravy will bubble up. Boil it steadily for two hours. Half 
an hour before you take it up, put in through the hole in 
the centre of the crust some bits of butter rolled in flour, to 
thicken the gravy. When done, put the pie on a large dish, 
and pour the gravy over it. You may intersperse it all 
through with cold ham. 

A pot-pie may be made of ducks, rabbits, squirrels, or 
venison. Also of beef-steak. A beef-steak, or some pork- 
steaks (the lean only), greatly improve a chicken pot-pie. 
If you use no ham, season with salt. 

CHICKEN STEWED, WITH BISCUIT 

Take chickens, and make a fricassee; just before you are 
ready to dish it up, have ready two baking-tins of rich soda 



124 POULTRY AND GAME 

or baking-powder biscuits ; take them from the oven hot, split 
them apart by breaking them with your hands, lay them on 
a large meat platter, covering it, then pour the hot chicken 
stew over all. Send to the table hot. This is a much better 
way than boiling this kind of biscuit in the stew, as you are 
more sure of its being always light. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN 

(A Southern Method.) 

Dress young chickens, w^ash, and let them stand in w^ater 
half an hour to make them white. Put into a baking pan 
(first cutting them open at the back). Sprinkle salt and 
pepper over them, and put a lump of butter here and there ; 
then cover tightly wuth another pan the same size and bake 
one hour J baste often with butter. A delicious dish. 

MARYLAND CHICKEN 

Take two tender spring chickens, split in half, detach the 
legs and wings; lay all on a plate, and season with salt and 
pepper. Dip the pieces in beaten egg, and afterwards in 
bread crumbs. Place them in a buttered pan, pour an ounce 
of clarified butter over, and roast in the oven about twenty 
minutes. Pour half a pint of cream sauce on a serving dish, 
and arrange the fowl on it; alternate with slices of thin 
boiled bacon, and small corn fritters. 

CHICKEN CROaUETTES 

1 chicken. 1 tablespoonful of chopped 

1 tablespoonful butter. parsley. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. Pepper, salt and a dash of 
^ pt. milk. cayenne. ' 

A little grated nutmeg. J 



♦ 



k 



POULTRY AND GAME 125 

Boil chicken, remove skin and chop fine. When the sauce 
is cooked add the chopped chicken. Mix well, then set aside 
to cool. When cool mould into shape ; dip in egg and bread- 
crumbs and boil in hot fat. This quantity will make thirteen 
croquettes. 

CHICKEN CROaUETTES 

1 solid pt, chopped chicken. 4 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful of onion juice. 

•| teaspoonful pepper. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 

1 cup cream or chicken stock. 1 pt. bread-crumbs. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Put the cream or stock on to boil. Mix the flour and but- 
ter together and stir into the boiling cream, then add the 
chicken and seasoning; boil for two minutes, and add two 
of the eggs well beaten ; take from the fire immediately and 
set away to cool; when cool, shape, roll in egg and crumbs 
and fry. Many persons think a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley an improvement. 

CHICKEN CROaUETTES 

2 cups finely chopped chicken. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 cup chicken stock. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

^ cup cream or milk. A little mace, nutmeg, pepper, 

2 eggs. and salt. 

Mix the butter and flour together, and when the milk and 
stock have come to a boil add them to the butter and flour. 
Add the meat, and let all simmer together ten minutes, then 
add eggs pretty well beaten. Leave on the back of stove 
for a few minutes, but do not allow it to simmer. Pour in 
a dish to cool. When quite cool form into small rolls and 
roll in bread-crumbs, then in egg, and again in bread-crumbs, 
Cook in boiling lard. 



126 POULTRY AND GAME 

CREAMED CHICKEN 
One chicken of four pounds, or two of six pounds; four 
sweetbreads, one can of mushrooms. Boil chicken and sweet- 
breads and when cold cut up as for salad. In a sauce-pan 
put four coffee-cups or one quart of cream. In another 
sauce-pan put four large tablespoonfuls of butter and five 
even tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir until melted, then pour 
in the hot cream and stir until it thickens. Flavor with the 
small half of a grated onion and a very little nutmeg ; season 
highly with black and red pepper. Put the chicken and 
cream in a bakin^^-dish ; add the mushrooms cut in pieces (if 
large), and cover with grated bread; put a number of 
pieces of butter on the top and bake ten or twenty minutes. 

CHICKEN JELLY 

Cut chicken into joints and put into a pan or stew-jar. 
Put in a very little salt and a peppercorn, and just cover 
with water ; let it stew gently for two or three hours or more, 
adding a little water if required. When the meat falls from 
the bones take off the meat and pound up the bones, and give 
them an extra boil. Strain the liquid from the meat (and 
bones) and w^hen cold take off any fat. It becomes a jelly, 
and can be eaten cold or warmed up. 

CELERIED CHICKEN (ENTREE) 
2 cups cold cooked chicken, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped 



minced. 


parsley. 


1 cup milk. 


1 teaspoonful salt. 


1 tablespoonful butter. 


4 dashes pepper. 


1 heaping tablespoonful 


3 slices of toast, cut length- 


flour. 


wise. 


1 teaspoonful celery salt. 


» ► 



Put butter and flour in saucepan, stir till butter is melted 
and smooth, add milk, salt and pepper, stir till it comes to 



POULTRY AXD GAME 127 

a boil, add parsley and celery salt, which have been mixed 
with a little of the butter mixture, add chicken. Arrange 
toast in strips (log-cabin style) ; place the chicken in centre 
and serve. 

FONDTJ OF CHICKEN 

1 cupful minced chicken 1 tablespoonful of butter. 

(turkey or veal). 1 slice cold boiled ham, 
1 cup breadcrumbs. minced. 

1 cup of boiling milk. 2 eggs beaten. 

^ onion boiled in the milk Pinch of soda. 

and strained out. Pepper and salt. 

Soak the crumbs in the milk, stir in the butter and beat 
very light. Let the mixture cool while you mince the meat 
and beat the eggs. Stir in the meat when the bread and milk 
are nearly cold; season, lastly adding the eggs. Beat well 
up. Put it into a well-greased baking dish; set in a brisk 
oven. When the fondu is a light delicate brown puff send 
at once to the table in the same dish in which it has been 
baked. 

SAVORY DUCK 

(To be served cold. A luncheon or supper dish.) 

Bone the duck by cutting it open down the back, take out 
the back bone, the breast and then the leg bones. Put the 
bones, one pound of shin of beef, one onion, two cloves, one 
bay-leaf, some thyme and parsley, one carrot, a small piece 
of turnip, pepper and salt into a saucepan with three pints 
of stock or water. Chop one-half pound of veal with an 
onion, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, salt and one-half 
pound of green peas. Fill the duck with this and sew it 
up. Stew it with the bones for two hours. Take out the 
duck and strain the gravy. Put it in another pan and mix 
in one ounce of gelatine and the whites of two eggs. Beat 
it over the fire until it boils, then let it boil for ten minutes, 



128 POULTRY AND GAIlIE 

without stirring, with the lid on; it will then be clear when 
again skimmed. Cover the bottom of a dish (large enough 
to hold the duck) with cooked peas, carrots and turnip. 
Put a small cupful of the gravy, and let it get cool, then 
put in the duck (breast downwards) ; let the gravy be nearly 
cold, then pour it over the duck, which will then set in a 
firm jelly, and can be turned out on to another dish. 

EOAST DUCK 

Clean with care, and, after washing well, rinse out with 
soda and water. Lay in cold water for half an hour ; wipe 
dry and stuff with bread-crumbs, seasoned with butter, pep- 
per, salt, a half teaspoonful of onion-juice, and just a pinch 
of powdered sage. Dredge with salt, pepper, and flour ; dash 
a cupful of boiling water over them and roast, covered, twelve 
minutes to the pound, if you like them rather rare ; fifteen, 
if you would liave them well done. Baste four times, the 
last time with butter, after which dredge with flour and 
brown. 

Chop the giblets for the gravy, and thicken with browned 
flour. Green peas should accompany ducks. 

BRAISED DUCK 

Proceed as with braised goose, omitting the apple from 
the "bed" and adding onion and sage very sparingly. 

STEWED DUCK 

Ducks which are no longer in the first flush of youth may 
be treated satisfactorily in this way. Joint as for fricassee ; 
pepper, salt, and flour them. Heat good dripping in a fry- 
ing-pan and fry a sliced onion to a light brown. Take out 
the onion, put in the duck, and cook ten minutes, turning 
two or three times. Put into a sauce-pan a cupful of stock 



POULTRY AKB GAME 129 

or consomme, and while it is still cold lay in the jointed 
duck. Cover and stew slowly until tender, season with 
pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, and a 
dash of lemon-juice. Simmer three minutes, stir in a table- 
spoonful of brown roux, cook a minute to thicken it, add a 
glass of sherry, and serve. 

SALMI OF DUCK 

Cut up the meat of a roasted or braised duck into neat 
dice, the bones, stuffing, and skin into small pieces. Cover 
the meat-dice with a marinade of salad oil and lemon- juice, 
and leave in a cold place while you prepare the gravy or 
sauce. Cover the bones, etc., well with cold water, add 
parsley, pepper, and salt, and simmer, after this reaches the 
boil, for two hours. Strain, thicken the gravy with browned 
flour rubbed up with a spoonful of butter ; add the juice of 
half an onion, boil up and put in the meat. Draw to the 
side of the range and let it almost, but not quite, boil. Take 
out the meat and arrange neatly upon a flat dish. Add to 
the gravy half a can of champignons (or, if you can get 
them, fresh mushrooms are far better). Simmer three min- 
utes and pour over the meat. Garnish with sippets of fried 
bread. 

ROAST DUCKLING 

Whip three tablespoonfuls of mashed potatoes to a white 
cream with butter and a tablespoonful of cream. Season 
with celery salt and white pepper, add three tablespoonfuls 
of almonds, blanched and chopped very fine. "With this 
mixture stuff your young ducks when you have cleaned and 
washed them. Do not distend the bodies, but fill without 
packing. Truss and bind legs and wings into position with 
cotton-twine. Lay the plump creatures (they must be fat 
and white) upon the grating of your roaster, rub the breast 
with a split onion, dust with pepper, salt and flour; put a 



130 POULTRY AND GAME 

cupful of boiling water into the pan and cover. Set in a 
very quick oven for the first fifteen minutes. Change, then, 
to a more moderate, and cook, still covered, ten minutes to 
the pound. Uncover, baste well with gravy, then with but- 
ter, dredge with flour, and brown. Skim the fat from the 
gravy, thicken with a tablespoonful of browned flour, rubbed 
up with two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, and send to 
table in a boat. This is one of the choicest of summer deli- 
cacies. 

EAGOUT OF DUCK AND GREEN PEAS 

Cook the remnants of a pair of roast ducks as directed in 
recipe for Salmi of Duck, and when done pile the meat in the 
centre of the dish ; put a quart of green peas, well boiled and 
drained, about them like a green fence, and pour the gravy 
over all. 

REDHEAD OR CANVASBACK DUCK (ROASTED) 

Singe and draw, but do not wash the ducks. Wipe them, 
inside and out, Avith a soft, damp cloth. Cut off the pinions 
and tie what is left of the wdngs to the bodies. Instead of 
stuffing them, pepper and salt the cavity of the body, wash 
out with salad oil and lemon-juice and put a teaspoonful of 
currant jelly, or three or four cranberries, in each. Put into 
your covered roaster; pour half a cupful of boiling water 
into the dripping-pan beneath; cover closely and cook half 
an hour, basting three times. Uncover, wash all over with a 
mixture of butter and lemon-juice, and brown. Serve with 
currant jelly. 

REDHEAD OR CANVASBACK DUCK (BROILED) 

Clean and wipe with a soft, damp cloth within and with- 
out. Split down the back and flatten the protuberant breast- 
bone with the broadside of a hatchet, then leave them in a 



POULTRY AXD GAME 131 

marinade of salad oil and lemon-juice for one hour, setting 
them in cold place. "Without wiping them, broil over red, 
clear coals for twenty minutes, if they are plump and large ; 
less time will do for small birds. Turn them twice. Serve 
with currant or grape jelly, and when dishing put upon each 
breast a teaspoonful of butter beaten to a cream with lemon- 
juice and finely chopped parsley. 

ROAST GOOSE 

The goose should not be more than eight months old, and 
the fatter the more tender and juicy the meat. Stuff with 
the following mixture: Three pints of bread crumbs, six 
ounces of butter, or part butter and part salt pork, one tea- 
spoonful each of sage, black pepper and salt, one chopped 
onion. Do not stuff very full, and stitch openings firmly 
together to keep flavor in and fat out. Place in a baking 
pan with a little water, and baste frequently with salt and 
water (some add vinegar) ; turn often so that the sides and 
back may be nicely browned. Bake two hours or more; 
when done take from the pan, pour off the fat, and to the 
brown gravy left, add the chopped giblets which have pre- 
viously been stewed until tender, together with the water 
they were boiled in; thicken with a little flour and butter 
rubbed together, bring to a boil and serve. English style. 

ROAST PRAIRIE CHICKEN OR GROUSE 

Test them, after cleaning and wiping, and if they are 
tough, put them — trussed as for roasting — into a steamer and 
set over hard-boiling water for half an hour. "While still 
hot rub them well with butter and lemon-juice, salt and 
pepper, inside and out, put a small bit of fat salt pork in 
each and roast, covered, in a quick oven for half an hour. 
Baste three times with butter and hot water, and, just before 



132 POULTRY AND GAME 

taking them up, with butter alone. They are dry birds and 
need mollifying. Serve with currant jelly and bread sauce. 

GAME PIE 

2 turkey livers. 1^ cups bread-crumbs. 

Legs of 2 partridges. ^ teaspoonful cloves. 

1^ lbs, forcemeat. ^ teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Chop up the livers very fine, also the meat of the par- 
tridge legs; add the bread-crumbs after having put them 
through a sifter; add pepper and salt to taste. Mix all to- 
gether and moisten with water. Put it in a pan and cook 
for half an hour, keeping it moist and turning over often. 
Put in a pie dish and cover with paste and bake. To be 
eaten cold. 

BROILED GROUSE (LARDED) 

Singe, clean, wipe well, split down the back, and lard the 
breasts with narrow strips of fat salt pork, d'rawn through 
the skin for an inch and out the other side with a larding- 
needle. Or if they are decidedly tough, steam for half an 
hour and lay until cold in a marinade of lemon-juice and oil. 
Pepper and salt and broil for fifteen minutes. Serve upon 
squares of toasted bread, or upon oblongs of fried hominy. 
Butter well before sending to table. 

SALMI OF GROUSE 

Cut neatly into joints a pair of underdone grouse and 
divide the breasts into two pieces each. Put a cupful of good 
stock or consomme in a saucepan, season well, add a minced 
onion, a chopped carrot, and a stalk of celery, with a little 
minced parsley, and cook slowly one hour. Rub through a 
colander, stir in a tablespoonful of brown roux, bring to a 
boil, and put in the grouse. After this it must not boil, but 
set it in a saucepan of boiling water just where it will keep 



POULTRY AND GMIE 133 

at the scalding-point for half an hour. At the last put in 
half a cupful of mushrooms, heated in their o^vn liquor, and 
serve. 

If you have preserved the cooked giblets of the grouse, 
mince them fine, work them to a paste with butter, season 
with salt and pepper, and spread them on buttered toast upon 
the dish intended for the salmi before it goes in. The toast 
will absorb the gravy and be delicious. 

PERDRIX AVX CHOUX 

Stuff partridge with turkey dressing ; then stick on breast 
pieces of pork fat. Put lard down in pot and brown the 
partridge alone with pepper and salt. Roast well for twenty 
minutes in a covered pot. Then take out the partridge and 
put in the pot four onions stuck with cloves, one small cab- 
bage cut in four, four slices of pork and bacon; fry brown. 
Put back the partridge and cover with hot water; simmer 
gently for an hour. Before taking off put in a tablespoonful 
of browned flour. 

EOAST aUAIL 

Draw and wipe carefully within and without with a soft, 
damp cloth. Put a whole raw oyster in the body of each, and 
truss as you would a chicken. Bind thin slices of fat bacon 
over the breast ; lay upon the grating of your roaster, put a 
very little hot water under them and cook, covered, in a lively 
oven, for twenty minutes, basting three times with butter and 
water. "Wash well with butter, pepper, and salt, and serve 
upon squares of buttered toast, wet with gravy from the 
roaster. 

BROILED aUAIL 

Draw, wipe, and split down the back, then leave them in 
a marinade of salad oil and lemon- juice for half an hour. 
Without wiping, broil on a wire "bird-broiler" for ten min- 



134 POULTRY AND GAME 

utes, turning twice. Butter, salt, and pepper them, and 
serve on squares of buttered toast, upon each of which has 
been poured a teaspoonful of hot stock. 

HOAST PAETRIDGE 

Clean and truss as you would chickens. Bind thin slices 
of fat salt pork or bacon over the breasts and put into your 
roaster with half a cupful of boiling water. Pepper and salt 
the birds and wash over with melted butter, letting it drip 
into the pan below. Cook, covered, forty-five minutes, bast- 
ing four times wdth butter and water. Serve with a good 
bread sauce, but after dishing pour over the birds several 
spoonfuls of their own gravy from the pan. 

EOAST PIGEON (WILDy 

Unless you are sure that they are tender, stew them or 
put them into a pie. Draw and wash them thoroughly ; wdpe 
dry, salt and pepper the insides; truss and bind them into 
shape with cotton string; cover the breasts with thin slices 
of fat bacon tied in place, lay them, breasts upward, in your 
roaster, and pour in half a cupful of hot water or weak stock. 
Cook, covered, fifteen minutes ; remove the pork, rub all over 
with butter and lemon-juice, and brown. Keep the pigeons 
hot while you stir into the gravy a tablespoonful of butter 
cut up in one of browned flour and another of currant jelly. 
Boil up once and pour over the pigeons, 

BROILED SaiTAB 

Split down the back, rub all over with butter, salt and 
pepper them, and broil over red coals. Serve upon buttered 
toast wet with a little hot stock or gravy. 



POULTRY AXD GAME 135 

BRAISED PIGEON WITH MUSHEOOIIS 

Drain, wash, and stuff with a force-meat of crumbs and 
chopped fat pork, seasoned with onion-juice, salt, and pepper. 
Prepare the usual bed of vegetables — minced carrot, onion, 
celery, and parsley. Lay the pigeons upon it ; add a cupful 
of stock, or of butter and water, eovei' and cook gently one 
hour, or until tender. Dish the birds and keep hot ; rub the 
gravy through a colander into a sauce-pan, season to taste, 
add a dozen fresh mushrooms cut into small pieces, simmer 
five minutes, thicken with a tablespoonful of brown roux, boil 
up and pour over the pigeons. 

PIGEOK PIE 

Clean, wash, and joint; wipe dry, pepper, salt, and saute 
them in hot dripping in which an onion has been fried. 
Butter a deep dish and lay in the meat alternately with layers 
of fat salt pork, chopped fine, hard-boiled eggs, and the gib- 
lets of the birds boiled and minced. Dredge flour over the 
pigeons as they go in. "When the dish is full pour in a cup- 
ful of water in which the giblets were cooked, seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Cover the pie with a good crust, cut a slit 
in the middle, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. 

ENGLISH JUGGED PIGEON 

Clean, wash, and stuff with a good force-meat of crumbs, 
chopped fat pork, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs rubbed 
to powder, ?nd a tablespoonful of celery boiled tender and 
chopped. Season to taste with onion-juice, pepper, and salt. 
Truss the birds; tie wings and legs close to the bodies and 
pack in an agate-iron pail with a close top. Plunge this into 
boiling water deep enough to cover the pail almost to the top, 
but not to float it. Put a weight on the top to keep the pail 
from turning over as the boiling becomes hard, and cook for 



136 POULTRY AND GAME 

three hours if the pigeons are tough. Dish the birds, thicken 
the gravy with browned flour, add a tablespoonful of tomato 
catsup, boil up and pour over the pigeons. 

CURRIED PIGEON 

Cook as above directed, dish and add to the gravy two 
teaspoonfuls of curry-powder. Boil one minute before pour- 
ing over the birds. Serve with boiled rice. Serve ice-cold 
bananas with this dish. 

WOODCOCK, SNIPE, AND OTHER SMALL BIRDS 

are usually broiled in the same manner as squabs. They are 
also nice (especially woodcock) cleaned and left whole, the 
head skinned, the eyes extracted, and the head twisted over 
the shoulder until the bill pierces the body. Bind a thin slice 
of fat pork or bacon closely about each bird. When all are 
ready lay them upon the grating of your covered roaster, pour 
a very little boiling water under them, cover and roast fifteen 
minutes. Remove the bacon, wash the birds over with butter, 
and brown. Boil the giblets and pound fine ; rub to a paste 
with butter; season to taste. Have ready squares of toast, 
buttered. Wet with the pan-gravy and spread with the 
paste, laying a bird upon each. 

BORDEAUX STEWED RABBIT 

Skin, clean, and joint. Heat a tablespoonful of butter in 
a sauce-pan and fry in it a sliced onion. When it is slightlj' 
colored put in the pieces of hare, salted, peppered, and 
dredged with flour, and cook five minutes, turning over 
and over that all parts may be seared. Cover with cold water 
or weak stock, add parsley, sweet marjoram, pepper, and salt, 
and stew gently until tender. Take up the meat with a 
skimmer and pile upon a dish. Add to the gravy in the 



POULTRY AND GAME 137 

sauce-pan a great spoonful of brown roux, a teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, and, if you like, half a cupful of 
chopped champignons. Boil two minutes, take from the fire, 
add a glass of claret, pour over the meat, cover and set in an 
open oven for five minutes before serving. 

ROAST HARE OR RABBIT 

"Old hare" at the South, let the age be what it may. At 
the North and "West it is rabbit, tame or wild. Skin and 
clean them. The latter process should be thorough. Good 
cooks are sometimes less heedful than they should be in this 
respect. Chop the livers fine, also a slice of fat pork, and 
mix with bread-crumbs. You may add a few champignons 
or mushrooms if you like. Season with pepper, salt, and 
onion-juice. Stuff the rabbits with this, sew them up, and 
anoint well with salad oil and lemon-juice, leaving them in 
this marinade for an hour. Put into the roaster, pour a 
cupful of weak stock, or consomme, or butter and water under 
them ; cover and cook for an hour. Take off the bacon, wash 
over with butter, and brown. Dish the hares, and keep hot, 
while you thicken the gravy with browned flour, boil up, add 
a teaspoonful of catsup and half a glass of claret, pour a 
few spoonfuls over the rabbits, the rest into a boat. 

JUGGED HARE 

Skin, clean, and joint a full-grown rabbit, or hare. Cut 
the back into two pieces and sever every joint. Fry a sliced 
onion to a pale brown in hot dripping, put in the meat, 
peppered, salted, and floured, and cook for ten minutes, fast, 
turning often. Put into the bottom of an agate-iron sauce- 
pan a layer of chopped fat salt pork, sprinkle with onion, 
parsley, and paprica. Upon this lay the pieces of hare and 
cover with another layer of chopped pork and onion. A few 
bits of fresh tomato would not be amiss. Pour in a cupful of 



138 POULTRY AND GAME 

cold, weak stock in which a stalk of celery has been boiled, 
then remove. Fit on a tight top, set in a vessel of cold water, 
and bring slowly to a boil. Keep this up for three hours, or 
until the meat is tender. Dish the pieces of rabbit, thicken 
the gravy with browned flour ; add a tablespoonf ul of currant 
jelly and one of lemon-juice, simmer one minute, pour in a 
glass of sherry and turn all upon the meat. Garnish with 
triangles of fried hominy, serving a bit with each portion of 
hare. This is an English dish and good. 

EOAST HAUNCH OF VENISON 

(English Style.) 

To prepare a haunch of venison for roasting, wash it 
slightly in tepid water, and dry it thoroughly by rubbing it 
with a clean, soft cloth. Lay over the fat side a large sheet 
of thickly buttered paper, and next a paste of flour and water 
about three-quarters of an inch thick ; cover this again with 
two or three sheets of stout paper, secure the whole well with 
twine, and put down to roast, with a little water, in the drip- 
ping-pan. Let the fire be clear and strong; baste the paper 
immediately with butter or clarified drippings, and roast the 
joint from three to four hours, according to its weight and 
quality. Doe venison will require half an hour less time than 
buck venison. About twenty minutes before the joint is 
done remove the paste and paper, baste the meat in every part 
with butter, and dredge it very lightly with flour ; let it take 
a pale brown color, and serve hot with unflavored gravy made 
with a thickening, in a tureen and good currant jelly. 
Venison is much better when the deer has been killed in the 
autumn, when wild berries are plentiful, and it has had 
abundant opportunities to fatten upon this and other fresh 
food. Venison should never be roasted unless very fat. The 
shoulder is a roasting piece, and may be done without the 
paper or paste. 



POULTRY AND GAME 139 

JELLIED VENISOIT 

A good sized piece of boil- A dessertspoonful ground 

iug venison, cinnamon.' 

1 small onion. 1 wineglass good port. 

A little cayenne. A little gelatine if needed. 
A few cloves. 

Take a good sized boiling piece of venison, soak in salted 
water one-half hour, then put on to boil, onion, cayenne 
pepper, a few cloves, and ground cinnamon. "When done 
take the venison out carefull}^ so as not to break; put in 
mould, then take the liquor or stock, add a wineglass of 
good port, strain all and pour over venison; add a little 
gelatine if liquor is not sufficient to harden. 

BROILED VENISON STEAK 

Venison steak should be broiled over a clear fire, turning 
often. It requires more cooking than beef. When suffi- 
ciently done, season with salt and pepper, pour over two 
tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, melted wdth a piece of butter. 
Serve hot on plates. 

Delicious steaks, corresponding to the shape of mutton 
chops, are cut from the loin. 

BAKED SADDLE OF VENISON 

Wash the saddle carefully ; see that no hairs are left dried 
on to the outside. Use a saddle of venison of about ten 
pounds. Cut some salt pork in strips about two inches long, 
and an eighth of an inch thick, with which lard the saddle 
with two rows on each side. In a large dripping-pan cut two 
carrots, one onion, and some salt pork in thin slices; add 
two bay leaves, two cloves, four kernels of allspice, half a 
lemon, sliced, and season with salt and pepper; place the 
saddle of venison in the pan, with a quart of good stock, boil- 



140 POULTRY AND GA^IE 

ing hot, and a small piece of butter, and let it boil about 
fifteen minutes on top of the stove ; then put it in a hot oven 
and bake, basting well every five minutes, until it is medium 
rare, so that the blood runs when cut ; serve with jelly or a 
wine sauce. If the venison is desired well done cook much 
longer, and use a cream savice with it, or stir cream into 
the venison gravy. In ordering the saddle request the 
butcher to cut the ribs off pretty close, as the only part that 
is of much account is the tenderloin and thick meat that lies 
along the backbone up to the neck. The ribs which extend 
from this have very little meat on them, but are always sold 
with the saddle. "When neatly cut off they leave the saddle 
in a better shape, and the ribs can be put into your stock-pot 
to boil for soup. 

VENISON PIE OR PASTRY 

The neck, breast and shoulder are the parts used for a 
venison pie or pastry. Cut the meat into pieces (fat and 
lean together) and put the bones and trimmings into the 
stew-pan with pepper and salt, and water or veal broth 
enough to cover it. Simmer it till you have drawn out a 
good gravy. Then strain it. 

In the meantime, make a good rich paste, and roll it rather 
thick. Cover the bottom and sides of a deep dish with one 
sheet of it, and put in your meat, having seasoned it with 
pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace. Pour in the gravy which 
you have prepared from the trimmings, and a glass of port 
Mdne. Lay on the top some bits of butter rolled in flour. 
Cover the pie with a thick lid of paste and ornament it hand- 
somely with leaves and flowers formed with a tin cutter. 
Bake two or more hours according to the size. Just before 
it is done, pull it forward in the oven, and brush it over with 
beaten egg; push it back and let it slightly brown. 



POULTRY AND GAME 141 

SOUFFLE DE VOLAILLE 

1 lb. raw chicken. 1| pts. double cream. 

3 oz. butter. Pepper and salt to taste. 

4 eggs. 

Pound meat in a mortar (or pass twice through fine 
mincer), add gradually three ounces butter, four yolks and 
two whites of eggs. Season to taste and then pass through 
a hair sieve; whip the remaining two whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth ; half whip the cream and stir these in very gently 
to the chicken mixture. Steam very gently in mould for 
three-quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve with good 
white sauce made with butter, flour, milk, good chicken stock 
and a little cream. 

"MY DEVIL" 

1 tablespoonful of "Worces- 1 saltspoonful pepper. 

tershire sauce. | saltspoonful cayenne, 

1 small dessertspoonful an- 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 

chovy sauce. 1 teaspoonful brown sugar. 

3 teaspoonfuls made mustard. One squeeze of lemon, one 
1 saltspoonful of salt. glass port wine. 

Mix together and heat in saucepan, and pour over grilled 
turkey legs, or any cold meat grilled for breakfast or lunch. 

THE BEGUM'S CUERY 

Meat or chicken. Salt, cocoanut, butter, ground 
1 tablespoonful curry. rice. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. Onions. 

^ tablespoonful Harvey i cup gravy, 
sauce. 

Cut some meat into small dice, and put butter in frying- 
pan; fry the meat a nice brown. While cooking, add all 
ingredients, which must be previously all mixed together. 



142 POULTRY AND GAME 

One tablespoon curry powder, one of vinegar, one-half of 
Harvey sauce, a little salt, the juice of a cocoanut, ground 
rice and butter. Then add half a cup of gravy. Stir all 
together. Let it cook a little while, and then turn the curry 
into a brown earthenware jar. Fry some onions in butter^ 
and add to the curry. Let the jar stand on the hob and 
simmer until required. 

TIMBALES 

1 cup milk. 1 egg, well beaten. 

1 cup flour. Lard for frying. 

Beat all together; let stand one hour. Have ready a 
saucepan of boiling lard. Put timbale-iron first in lard, then 
in batter and then in lard again for one-half minute, when 
the shells will fall off the iron readily. Fill with creamed 
chicken and garnish with parsley or cress after heating a few 
moments in the oven. The shells can be made the day before 
if desired and heated when required. 

GAME SAUCE 

1 pk. ripe plums, 1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

^ doz, white onions. 2 oz. stick cinnamon broken 

1 pt. vinegar. in pieces. 

4 lbs. white sugar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful cayenne. 

Stone the plums. Chop onions and j^lums very fine. Put 
the plums on to cook in a saucepan, the onions on in the 
vinegar. Cook until done. Then add the plums, also sugar 
and seasoning. It will take several hours to cook, doing 
slowly at the back of the stove. When cool cork tight in 
bottles. 



POULTRY AND GAME 143 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

2| lbs. C'liickeu, raw. 1 pt. cream. 

^ Wb. cooked sweetbreads, ^ can mushrooms. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1-| tablespoonfuls flour. 

When chicken and sweet-breads have been cooked tender 
allow them to cool, chopping sweet-breads fine. Put butter 
in a saucepan; when melted add flour, and when dissolved, 
cream, which has been heated. When thick add seasoning 
and chicken. IMix all well together; pour into a baking-dish, 
spread bread-crumbs and butter on top and bake twenty 
minutes. Garnish with parsley. 

POTATO STUFFING FOR ROAST GOOSE 

Eight good-sized potatoes, boil and mash, salt and pepper 
to taste, four onions very finely chopped and mixed Avith hot 
potato. Stuff body of goose as full as possible. 

FOWL DRESSING 

Steam very stale bread according to size of fowl, add 
finely chopped onions and apples, raw eggs, salt, pepper and 
allspice to taste. Quantities : for a duck : Small bowl bread, 
one onion, two apples, three eggs, mixed well. 



144 POULTRY AND GAilE 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



POULTRY AND GAME 145 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



146 POULTRY AND GAME 

WRITTEN EECIPES 



POULTRY AlsD GAME 147 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



YEGETABLES 

Vegetables of all kinds should be thoroughly picked over, 
throwing out all decayed or unripe parts, then well washed in 
several waters. Most vegetables, when washed, are better 
when laid in cold water a short time before cooking. "When 
partly cooked, a little salt should be thrown into the water in 
which they are boiled, and they should cook steadily after 
they are put on, not allowed to stop boiling or simmering 
until they are thoroughly done. Every sort of culinary vege- 
table is much better when freshly gathered and cooked as 
soon as possible, and, when done, thoroughly drained, and 
served immediately while hot. 

Onions, cabbage, carrots and turnips should be cooked in 
a great deal of water, boiled only long enough to sufficiently 
cook them, and immediately drained. Longer boiling makes 
them insipid in taste, and with too little water they turn a 
dark color. 

Potatoes rank first in importance in the vegetable line, 
and consequently should be properly served. It requires 
some little intelligence to cook even so simple and common a 
dish as boiled potatoes. In the first place, all defective or 
green ones should be cast out ; a bad one will flavor a whole 
dish. If they are not uniform in size, they should be made 
so by cutting after they are peeled. The best part of a 
potato, or the most nutritious, is next to the skin, therefore 
they should be pared very thinly, if at all; then (if old, 
the cores should be cut out) thrown into cold water salted a 
little, and boiled until soft enough for a fork to pierce 
through easily ; drain immediately, and replace the kettle on 
the fire with the cover partly removed, until they are com- 

148 



VEGETABLES 149 

pletely dried. New potatoes should be put into boiling 
water, and when partly done salted a little. They should be 
prepared just in time for cooking, by scraping off the thin 
outside skin. They require about twenty minutes to boil. 

POTATO RICE 

Press well-seasoned mashed potatoes through a colander 
or a potato press on to the centre of a dish, leaving the little 
flakes piled up. Serve chops or minced meat around the 
mound of potato. 

POTATO RISSOLES 

Take some stiff mashed potatoes. Make a stuffing with 
two teaspoonfuls of breadcrumbs, a chopped tomato, a little 
parsley or herb seasoning, and moisten with beaten egg. 
Shape two rounds of potato, make a little hollow in one, fill 
with stuffing and press the other over it, roll in egg and 
breadcrumbs and then fry. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select large potatoes of uniform size and shape, wash and 
scrub them with a brush ; bake them in a hot oven about an 
hour ; press them to see if done, but do not pepper them with 
a fork; when soft break the skin in one place and serve at 
once. They become watery if kept. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Put one and a half tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying pan. 
When melted add a scant tablespoonful of chopped onion; 
let it slightly color, then add two cupfuls of cold boiled pota- 
toes cut into dice. Stir until the potato has absorbed all the 
butter, and become slightly browned; then sprinkle with 
salt, pepper, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Mix 
well, and serve very hot. 



150 VEGETABLES 



FRIED POTATOES 



Cold boiled potatoes are sliced, then put into a saute-pan 
with butter, and cooked until browned on both sides. If 
rolled in flour they will form a crisp crust. Raw potatoes 
are sliced or cut into any shape, and put into cold water for 
half an hour. They are then well dried on a napkin, and 
immersed in hot fat until done. Too many must not be put 
in the basket at once, as it cools the fat. Fry them to an 
amber color; then drain, and place them on a paper in the 
oven until all are done. Serve them at once, as they lose 
their crispness if kept. 

FRIED POTATO BALIS AND STRAWS 

To make balls use a potato scoop ; press it well into the 
potato before turning it. To make straws cut the potato into 
slices lengthwise, and then into strips, making each one about 
one-eighth of an inch thick. 

Slices or strips cut with a fluted knife are good forms fo: 
fried potatoes. Fry the potatoes in hot fat, using a basket 
Fancy fried potatoes are used to garnish any broiled meat 
dish. There are many kinds of cutters to give different 
shapes to potatoes. 

SARATOGA POTATOES 

Cut the potatoes with a plane into slices as thin as paper if 
possible. Let them soak in cold water for a little time to 
wash out the starch; then put them into fresh water with a 
piece of ice to thoroughly chill them. Drain a few of the 
slices at a time, dry them on a napkin ; put them in a f rying- 
basket and immerse them in smoking-hot fat. Keep them 
separated, and remove as soon as slightly colored. Turn 
them into a colander to drain, and sprinkle them with salt. 
"When the second lot are fried turn those in the colander on 



1 



VEGETABLES 151 

to a paper in the open oven, and so on until all are done. 
Saratoga potatoes should be perfectly dry and crisp. They 
may be used hot or cold, and will keep for some time in a 
dry place. If wanted hot, place them in the oven a moment 
before serving. 

PUFFED OR SOUFFLE POTATOES 

Peel the potatoes; cut the sides square, and trim off the 
corners, so as to give an oval shape. With one even cut 
slice them one-eighth of an inch thick the length of the po- 
tato ; they must be all the same size and shape. Soak them 
in cold water for half an hour; dry them on a napkin, and 
fry them in fat which is only moderately hot until they are 
soft, but not colored. Remove and place them on a sieve 
to drain and cool. Then immerse them in hot fat, when they 
will puff into balls. Toss the basket, and remove any that 
do not puff. Sprinkle w^th salt, and serve them on a napkin, 
or as a garnish. Holland potatoes best suit this purpose ; it 
is impossible to get the same result with most of the other 
varieties. 

SWEET POTATOES 

"Wash and scrub the potatoes; puj; them in boiling water, 
and cook until they can be pierced with a fork ; then pour off 
the water. Cover the pot with a cloth, and draw it to the 
side of the range to let the potatoes steam for ten minutes. 
Peel them before serving. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES 

Wash and scrub the potatoes without breaking the skin. 
Bake until soft; then break the skin in one place, and serve 
at once. 

BROWNED SWEET POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices one-quarter of an inch 
thick. Sprinkle them with salt and pepper; spread with 



152 VEGETABLES 

butter, and sprinkle with sugar. Place them in a hot oven 
to brown, 

iSWEET POTATO PUREE 

Mash thoroughly the boiled potatoes, and season them well 
with salt, pepper, and butter ; add enough hot milk to moisten 
them. Serve it the same as mashed white potato ; or put it 
in a pudding-dish, brush the top with egg, and brown it in 
the oven. Serve with it a tomato sauce, and use as a luncheon 
dish. Either boiled or baked potatoes may be used. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

If fresh tomatoes are used remove the skins by placing 
them in boiling water a few minutes ; they will then peel off 
easily. Cut them in pieces, and stew in a granite-ware sauce- 
pan until tender. To one quart of tomatoes add one tea- 
spoonful each of salt and sugar, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of butter. Thicken with a tea- 
spoonful of cornstarch wet in cold water, or with one-half 
cupful of cracker or breadcrumbs — chopped onions are 
relished in this dish — well cooked. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Season a can of tomatoes with one teaspoonful of salt, and 
one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper. Spread a shallow baking 
dish with a thin layer of breadcrumbs ; pour in the tomatoes, 
sprinkle over them a tablespoonful of sugar, and a few drops 
of onion juice. Cover the top with a cupful of breadcrumbs 
which have been moistened with a tablespoonful of melted 
butter. Bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve in 
the same dish. 



VEGETABLES 153 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

Large firm tomatoes. 1 tablespoonful chopped 

1 tablespoonl'iil butter. parsley. 

1 tablespoonful onion 1 cup breadcrumbs. 

chopped fine. 1 teaspoonful salt, 

f cup chopped meat. ^ teaspoonful pepper. 

1 egg, if desired. 

Select large, firm tomatoes; do not remove the skins; cut 
a small slice off the stem end, and scoop out the inside. Fill 
them with stuffing made as follows: Put butter in a sauce- 
pan ; when hot add onion chopped fine. Let it color slightly ; 
then add meat, chicken, or livers, parsley, breadcrumbs, the 
pulp taken from the tomatoes, salt, pepper, egg. Stir it over 
the fire until it is consistent. Dust the inside of the tomatoes 
with salt and pepper, and fill them, letting the stuffing rise 
half an inch above the tomato, and place a piece of butter on 
it. The above amount of stuffing is enough for eight toma- 
toes. Cut slices of bread one-half inch thick into circles the 
size of the tomato ; dip them quickly in water, and place in a 
baking-pan. Place a tomato on each piece of bread, and 
bake in oven about fifteen minutes, or until the stuffing is 
browned. A brown sauce may be served with this dish. The 
meat may be omitted from the stuffing if desired. If con- 
venient it is better to use oil instead of butter with tomatoes. 

ROASTED TOMATOES 

Peel the tomatoes; cut a piece off the top, and remove a 
little of the pulp. Put a piece of butter or a few drops of 
oil in each one ; dust with salt and pepper, replace the top, 
sprinkle it with crumbs, pepper, and salt. Put a small piece 
of butter or a little oil on each one, and place on a slice of 
bread. Bake in oven fifteen to twenty minutes. 



154 VEGETABLES 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut the tomatoes horizontally in two; leave the skins on. 
Place them on a broiler with the skin side down; dust with 
salt and pepper, and broil without turning, over a moderate 
fire, fifteen to twenty minutes, or until tender. Lay them on 
a hot dish, and spread each piece with either butter, oil, 
maitre d 'hotel sauce, hot Mayonnaise or Bearnaise, or the 
tomatoes may be cut into thick slices, covered with oil, and 
then broiled, turning frequently. 

TOMATO PILAFF 

Cook together one cup of stewed and strained tomato, one 
minced onion, one cup stock or gravy, with seasoning of salt 
and pepper. When boiling add one cupful of rice and toss 
lightly until the liquor is absorbed. Melt one-half cupful of 
butter, pour over the rice and set on back of stove to steam. 
After about twenty minutes remove the cover, shake well, 
that the kernels may be distinct, and cover with a towel until 
ready to serve. 

TOMATOES AND CHEESE 

One tin of tomatoes, one cup of grated cheese, dash of 
cayenne pepper and salt in cheese, lump of butter on top, 
four or five soda biscuits crumbed. Bake in a pudding-dish 
in oven. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Pour boiling water upon tomatoes to loosen their skins, 
and peel them. Slice, or cut into dice, and cook in a porce- 
lain or agate-iron saucepan for twenty minutes. Drain off 
the superfluous liquid, pepper and salt it, and keep for sauces, 
stews, and soups. Stir into the hot tomatoes, for each quart, 
a tablespoonful of butter rolled in corn-starch or in fine 
cracker-dust, a teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, and half 



VEGETABLES 18S 

a teaspoonful of grated onion. Cook three minutes longer 
and serve. 

TOMATOES ATI GRATIlSr 

1 qt. tomatoes. 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 

1 cup breadcrumbs. ter. 

1 small onion chopped, Cayenne and salt, 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Cut a piece from the top of each tomato. Scoop out the 
inside, leaving a hollow shell. Chop the pulp fine, mix with 
the crumbs, butter, sugar, pepper, salt, and onion. Fill the 
cavities of the tomatoes with this stuffing, heaping and round- 
ing each; scatter fine crumbs on the top, and arrange in a 
bake-dish. Set the dish, covered, in an oven, and bake half 
an hour before uncovering, after which brown lightly, and 
send to table on a hot platter. 

BROILED TOMATOES WITH SAUCE 

6 fine tomatoes, pared and 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

sliced thick. 2 raw eggs, beaten light. 

3 hard-boiled eggs (yolks 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

mashed), f teaspoonful each of made 
3 tablespoonfuls melted mustard and salt. 

butter. A pinch of cayenne. 

Rub butter, pounded yolks, pepper, salt, mustard, and 
sugar together. Beat hard, add vinegar, and heat to a boil. 
Put this gradually upon the beaten eggs and whip to a smooth 
cream. Set in hot water while you broil the tomatoes in an 
oyster-broiler over clear coals. Lay this upon a hot-water 
dish and pour the scalding dressing upon them. 

You may substitute a simpler sauce for this dressing, such 
as maitre d 'hotel sauce, or one made by beating two tea- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice in three tablespoonfuls of butter, 
and seasoning this with a little mustard or cayenne. 



150 VEGETABLES 

TOMATOES ON TOAST 

Wash and slice in half -inch rounds good firm tomatoes; 
place a layer of tomatoes on slices of bread half -inch thick; 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and on each round of tomato 
put a small piece of butter. Bake in shallow meat-pan in 
rather quick oven until bread turns golden brown. Serve 
at once. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Butter a bake-dish and cover the bottom with fine, dry 
crumbs. Next put a layer of sliced and peeled tomatoes; 
season with pepper, salt, sugar, butter, and a few drops of 
onion-juice. More crumbs and more tomatoes until the dish 
is full. The top layer should be crumbs, peppered, salted, 
and buttered. Bake half an hour, covered. Uncover and 
brown. If canned tomatoes are used, drain off half the juice 
before you begin the scallop, or it will be too watery. Season 
the liquor and save for sauces and soups. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Large ripe tomcitoes. Breadcrumbs, sugar, salt and 

2 slices fat salt pork. pepper. 

1 small onion. 

Peel and slice tomatoes. Chop salt pork aad onion. Place 
a layer of tomatoes in a pudding-dish, pepper and salt lightly, 
sprinkle with a very little sugar and with the pork and onion. 
Cover with crumbs and continue using the ingredients in thiJ | 
order until the dish is full. Have the top layer crumbs. 
Bake, covered, half an hour, then uncover and brown ten 
minutes. Serve in the dish in which they were baked. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Peel with a sharp knife. Cut a piece from the top and 
gouge out most of the pulp, leaving the walls intact. Season 



VEGETABLES 157 

what you have removed with pepper, salt, sugar, a few drops 
of onion-juice, and twice as much salad oil when you have 
chopped the pulp rather coarsely. Put it back into the toma- 
toes, replace the top, sprinkle with oil, paprica, and salt, and 
arrange upon a baking-pan. Bake, covered, for twenty min- 
utes, and uncovered for five, and serve upon buttered Gra- 
ham-bread toast. 

FEIED TOMATOES IN BATTER 

'A nice side-dish is made by dipping slices of ripe tomatoes 
into a batter made of flour, milk and an egg, and then frying 
them a delicate brown. 

FRIED TOMATOES (PLAIN) 

Wash and wipe, but do not peel, the tomatoes. Slice, dust 
each piece with paprica, salt, and sugar, sprinkle with a few 
drops of onion-juice ; dip in fine corn-meal, and fry in deep, 
hot cottolene, as j'ou would fritters. Serve dry with fish or 
with chops. 

DEVILED TOMATOES 

1 qt. firm tomatoes. 2 raw eggs, beaten light. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 1 teaspoonful powdered 

3 tablespoonfuls melted but- sugar. 

ter. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Pinch of cayenne. 

1 teaspoonful made mustard. 

Pound the boiled yolks; rub in the butter and seasoning. 
Beat light, add the vinegar, and heat almost to a boil. Stir 
in the beaten egg until the mixture begins to thicken. Set in 
hot water while you cut the tomatoes in slices nearly half an 
inch thick. Broil over a clear fire upon a wire oyster-broiler. 
Lay on a hot-water dish, and pour the hot sauce over them. 



158 VEGETABLES 

EAST INDIAN HAGOUT OF TOMATOES 

1 cocoanut. 1 tablespooniul grated onion. 

2 cups fresh diced tomatoes. 1 teaspoonful curry. 
1 large green pepper, 1 tablespoonful flour. 

chopped. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

A tiny pinch of chopped ^ teaspoonful soda, 
garlic. 

Break the shell of a cocoanut, saving the milk if it be sweet. 
Grate the meat when you have taken off the brown skin. 
Heat the milk and pour over the grated cocoanut. (If the 
milk be not sweet use a cupful of boiling water, slightly 
Bweetened with loaf-sugar.) Set aside, covered, until per- 
fectly cold, then strain through a muslin bag, squeezing out 
every drop of liquid. Peel and cut tomatoes to make two 
cupfuls; add green pepper, chopped, chopped garlic, grated 
onion, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Add the curry 
and draw to the side of the range, while you heat the cocoa- 
nut-milk and thin with it a roux of one tablespoonful of 
flour, stirred smooth into a larger spoonful of boiling butter. 
Season with salt to taste, pour all together in a deep dish, stir 
in soda, and serve while frothing. It will be relished by the 
lovers of highly seasoned sauces and stews. Eat with roast, 
or boiled chicken, or with fish. 

CREAMED ONIONS "' 

Peel one quart of medium-sized onions, place them in a 
saucepan, cover with boiling water; add one teaspoonful of 
sugar, and boil until nearly done ; add one teaspoonful salt ; 
boil a few minutes longer, then drain in a colander. Melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, add half a tablespoonful of flour. 
Stir and cook two minutes ; add one cupful of hot milk and 
cook two minutes longer, and season with whole pepper and 
salt. Put the onions in a hot dish and pour the sauce over 
them. 



VEGETABLES 159 

BAKED ONIONS 

'A Norwegian Eecipe. 

Cook tender in two waters — the second salted and boiling. 
Drain well, pressing each onion in a coarse cloth, gently, not 
to break it, and when they are dry, lay all together, side by 
side, in a bake-pan. Pepper, salt, and butter, and add a 
cupful of stock. Brown in a quick oven ; take out the onions 
and keep them hot in a deep dish while you thicken the gravy 
left in the pan with browned flour. Pour over th© onions, 
set in the oven for two minutes, and serve. 

BERMUDA ONIONS (STUFFED) 

Peel large Bermuda or Spanish onions, and parboil them 
for ten minutes. Drain, and let them get perfectly cold. 
With a sharp knife dig out the centre from each and fill with 
a force-meat of minced meat, veal, ham, or chicken, well sea- 
soned, and mixed with one-third as much fine crumbs. Sea- 
son with salt and cayenne and a little butter. Set the stuffed 
onions close together in a dish, fill the interstices with crumbs, 
and scatter more over the top. Pour about them enough 
weak stock to keep them from burning — about an inch in the 
bottom of the dish will do — and cook, covered, half an hour. 
Uncover and brown lightly. Onion-lovers will find this very 
palatable. 

ONION SOUFFLE 

1 cup white sauce. 1 teaspoonful white pepper. 

i cup breadcrumbs. Yolks of 3 eggs, whites beaten 

1 cup cooked onions dry. 

(chopped). ^ teaspoonful salt. 

§ cup milk. 

Soak the crumbs in cold milk, add white sauce, onions, 
yolks, pepper, salt, and last beaten whites. Turn into but- 
tered mould and bake forty-five minutes. 



160 VEGETABLES 

ONION FRITTEES 

Slice onion across and then pull apart. Then make a 
batter — the whites of two eggs, half cup milk ; put in slowly 
two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour and a little salt; mix 
in onion thoroughly and fry in boiling lard; dry on brown 
paper. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

Put three-quarters of a cup of milk in a sauce-pan over the 
fire with a generous tablespoonful of butter, a heaping tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and, when it comes to a boil, add a cup 
and a half of boiled rice, a saltspoonful of powdered cinna- 
mon or nutmeg, and salt to taste. Mix well, let it come to a 
boil. Add a beaten egg, remove from the fire, turn into a 
plate to get cold, form into cylinders and fry in hot butter. 

BOILED RICE 

Have a large saucepan three parts full of water, let the 
water boil very fast, drop the rice in through the fingers, 
stirring with a fork ; keep it boiling very fast for ten minutes, 
stirring all the time. Put it into a wire sieve and let cold 
water run through for three minutes, put back into a dry 
sauce-pan; separate the grains with a fork; stand it on the 
stove to dry, stirring occasionally. Do not cover rice while 
drying. 

TO BOIL RICE 

(Chinese Beeipe in Native's Own Words.) 

Wash him well, much wash in cold water, the rice water 
make him stick, wash all quite away. Water boil in sauce- 
pan all ready, very fast; throw rice in, can't burn water 
shake him so much. Boil quarter of an hour or little more. 
Rub rice in finger and thumb, if soft him well done. Put 
rice in colander, hot water go away ; pour cup of cold water 



ii 



VEGETABLES 161 

on him ; put back rice in saucepan, keep him covered up near 
fire; then rice all done, eat him up. 

BAKED RICE CURRY 

(An East Indian Dish.) 

Wash a cupful of raw rice in three waters, and let it soak 
fifteen minutes in water enough to cover it. Boil an onion 
in a quart of water Avith a little salt until the onion is very 
soft. Strain the water, squeezing the onion hard in a bit of 
cloth. Throw it away, put the water over the fire with a 
heaping teaspoonful of curry-powder, and when it boils 
again pour upon the rice and the water in which it was 
soaked. Turn all into a jar with a close top, or a casserole 
dish with a cover, and set in a moderate oven until the rice 
has soaked up the liquid and is swollen and soft, but not 
broken. Serve in a deep, open dish, and pour over it a few 
spoonfuls of melted butter, loosening the rice gently with a 
fork to allow the butter to penetrate to the bottom. Serve 
with roast chicken, veal, or fish. 

TURNIPS A LA CREME 

Cook some young turnips in the usual manner and mash 
them with plenty of cream. Serve in small portions on slices 
of toast or fried bread with a few capers spread over them. 
This makes a nice dish with which to commence a dinner 
where soup is not served, 

YOUNG TURNIPS 

Peel and quarter. Cook half an hour, or until tender, but 
not broken, in boiling, salted water. Drain, still without 
breaking, and dish. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, then 
butter plentifully and serve. Turnips must be served hot, 
or they are not fit to eat. 



162 VEGETABLES 

YOUNG TTTRinPS (STEWED) 

Peel and quarter, or slice. Boil fifteen minutes in hot, 
salted water, drain and cover with a cupful of milk that has 
been heated in a separate vessel with a tiny bit of soda. 
"When they simmer again stir in a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in half as much flour, pepper and salt to taste, and 
stew gently fifteen minutes more. Serve in a deep, covered 
dish, and very hot. 

YOTJNa TUKNIPS (FRIED) 

Pare and slice crosswise a quarter of an inch thick. Lay 
in ice-cold water half an hour, then cook tender, but not too 
soft, in boiling water without salt. Drain, lay upon a soft 
cloth until dry and lukewarm, sprinkle with pepper and salt, 
flour, and fry in hot cottolene; or, dip in beaten egg, then in 
cracker-dust, and fry. 

WAYS OF COOKING CABBAGE 

Select firm, crisp heads, and boil briskly in plenty of water, 
keeping closely covered, or if possible cut up the cabbage, 
remove the hard core and steam. This will avoid the odor of 
cooking. "When perfectly tender chop in a wooden bowl, 
have a white sauce ready of milk well thickened with corn- 
starch and flavored with mace or nutmeg. In this stir your 
chopped soft cabbage, beat vigorously until becoming pulpy, 
adding for a good sized vegetable dishful a lump of butter* the 
size of a small egg. Keep very hot and serve with any roast 
or poultry. Persons who dislike cabbage enjoy this dish and 
often ask what it is. 

Cabbage is perfectly delicious cooked with butter and flour. 
Put it, with a heaping tablespoonful of butter and a level 
tablespoonful of flour, in a frying-pan, and cook until tender 
Green savoy cabbage is especially good thus. 



VEGETABLES 163 

A tablespoonful of vinegar in the water in which cabbage 
is boiled destroys the odor of cooking. The same small con- 
diment in water in which a tough cut of beef is cooked will 
very much improve its tenderness. 

"Kail cannon" is cold cooked cabbage, cold mashed or 
chopped potatoes, sliced onions and seasoning of pepper and 
salt, slowly fried with butter in a covered pan. 

GERMAN RED CABBAGE 

1 head red cabbage. Wine glass of sherry. 

1 onion. ^ cup vinegar. 

2 apples. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Salt, pepper and allspice Butter size of 2 eggs. 

;. to taste. 

u 

Shave cabbage very fine, put slowly into quart of boiling 
water; add onion cut fine, apples, salt, pepper and allspice 
to taste, sherry, vinegar, sugar, butter, let simmer one and 
one-half or two hours and serve hot. 

YOUNG BOILED BEETS 

After washing them, boil three-quarters of an hour, scrape, 
slice, and pour over them a tablespoonful of butter, two of 
vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. 

OLD BEETS (BOILED) 

"Wash and cook in hot, salted water from two to three hours, 
according to age and size. Throw at once into cold water 
when done, to loosen the skins ; peel quickly, slice thin, dish, 
and pour over them a sauce made of three tablespoonfuls of 
scalding vinegar, a tablespoonful of butter, and a little pep- 
per and salt. Serve hot. "Left-overs" of beets should be 
kept for salad and for garnishes. 



164 VEGETABLES 

BEET-TOPS (GERMAN) 

Cut half a pound of cold boiled ham into dice and fry in 
a little salad oil with half a grated onion. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of hot vinegar, and set in hot water while you 
wash, pick over, and boil the greens in hot, salted water. 
Fifteen minutes should make them tender. Chop fine, drain 
well, and mix with the fried ham and vinegar. Dish hot, 
with poached eggs on top of the greens. 

ASPARAGUS TIPS 

Cut the asparagus stalks into pieces about an inch long, 
and as far down as tender ; cook them in salted boiling water. 
Drain and stir into them just enough white sauce to well 
cover them. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS 

Scrape the stalks and lay them in cold water for half an 
hour ; tie into rather loose bundles with soft string, and cook 
in hot, salted water for half an hour. It is no longer con- 
sidered necessary to serve boiled asparagus upon toast, many 
good judges of cooking preferring it without the sodden 
underpinning. If you are thus minded, undo the strings 
and arrange the stalks upon a hot dish. Pour white or Hol- 
landaise sauce over it, or pass this separately. Or you may 
serve melted butter with it. 

ASPARAGUS A LA VINAIGRETTE 

Boil as directed, and while the stalks are hot pour overl 
them a dressing made of three tablespoonfuls of salad oil tol 
one of vinegar, a teaspoonful of French mustard, a little salt 
and cayenne, and a saltspoonful of sugar. Set away in a 
closely covered dish, and when cold put upon the ice for 
some hours before serving. It ranks among salads, but is 



VEGETABLES 165 

a delicious accompaniment to cold lamb or chicken on a hot 
day. 

SCALLOPED ASPARAGUS 

Wash the asparagus and cut off the hard, woody part of 
the stalks. Cut the tender part into inch lengths and par- 
boil for ten minutes in hot, salted water. Drain and put a 
layer of them in a buttered bake-dish. Scatter over this 
minced, hard-boiled eggs, season with salt, pepper, and but- 
ter-bits, and go on thus until the ingredients are used up. 
You need about four eggs to a bunch of asparagus. Make a 
roux of a large tablespoonful of butter and one of flour, and 
thin with a cupful of hot milk. Cook for a minute, season 
with paprica, and pour over the asparagus, a layer of which 
should be uppermost in the scallop ; sift fine crumbs over all 
with bits of butter stuck in it and grated cheese upon this. 
Bake twenty minutes, covered, then brown slightly. 

ASPARAGUS TIPS 

Use for this dish only the delicate tips of asparagus, less 
than two inches long. Boil in hot, salted water until tender ; 
drain, turn into a deep dish, pepper, salt, butter, and pour a 
good white sauce over them — half a cupful to one cupful of 
the tips. 

ASPARAGUS PATES 

Cut rounds of stale bread an inch and a half thick. Press 
a small cutter an inch deep into each, and dig out the inside, 
leaving a round saucerlike cavity. Butter these well and 
set upon the grating of a hot oven to crisp and to color light- 
ly. Fill them with asparagus tips prepared as in the last 
recipe, and serve hot. This is a nice luncheon entree. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

Cut the tops off the sweet green peppers and carefully 
remove the seeds. Chop together very fine two peppers, one 



106 VEGETABLES 

small onion and one large tomato (peeled) ; add an equal 
amount of stale breadcrumbs, one teaspoonful of salt and 
sufficient melted butter to moisten the mixture. Fill the 
peppers with the mixture, replace the tops and bake for half 
an hour in a moderate oven. 

BAKED OYSTEH PLANT (SALSIFY) 

Boil the salsify until perfectly tender, then mash through 
a strainer. Season with pepper and salt. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and half a cup of milk. Put in a bake-dish, 
cover with bread-crumbs and bits of butter, and bake fifteen 
minutes. 

SALSIFY 

Scrape roots and put in water with spoonful of vinegar. 
Boil in plenty of water for an hour (Avater boiling when 
salsify put in) with an ounce of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar and salt. Drain and serve with white or brown 
sauce, or serve egged and fried in breadcrumbs, or may be 
cut small and scalloped like oysters, or may be set to cool 
sliced in rounds and set in as pie jelly as an accompaniment 
to various cold meats, or to garnish jellied meats, or to ac- 
company a light French salad, for which it must be in jelly. 
(Salsify, or oyster plant, is one of the most delightful of vege- 
tables, not half enough used.) 

SALSIFY FHITTEKS 

1 bunch salsify. Flour for thin batter. 

2 eggs. Salt and pepper to taste. 
■J cup milk. 

Scrape and grate the roots, and stir into a batter made of 
the beaten eggs, the milk, and flour. Grate the salsify di- 
rectly into this, that it may not blacken by exposure to the 



VEGETABLES 167 

air. Salt, and drop a spoonful into the hot fat to see if it 
is of the right consistency. As fast as you fry the fritters, 
throw into a hot colander to drain. One great spoonful of 
batter should make a fritter, 

STEWED SALSIFY 

1 bunch of salsify. 3 tablespoonfula cracker 

1 cup milk, crumbs. 

1 tablespoonful butter. Pepper and salt. 

Scrape a bunch of salsify and drop into cold water as you 
cut into inch lengths. Boil in hot, salted w-ater until tender. 
Drain and pour into the saucepan with the salsify a cupful 
of hot milk. Simmer five minutes, and stir in cracker-dust, 
Avith pepper and salt. Stew gently for three minutes, 

BOILED CORN 

Husk, clearing the ear of every strand of silk, and trim 
off stem and top neatly. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes, ac- 
cording to the age of the corn. Drain, sprinkle the corn with ' 
salt, and serve upon a hot napkin upon a platter. Fold the 
corners of the napkin over the corn. 

CORN FRITTERS 

Take two cups full of fresh sweet, or very good canned 
corn, season with one tablespoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of pepper, add two eggs and a quarter of a pound of sifted 
flour. Do not beat the mixture, but stir vigorously with a 
wooden spoon for five minutes, till firm. Butter a frying 
pan and put in the preparation about a gill at a time. Be 
careful that the fritters do not touch one another, and fry a 
golden color. Serve hot in a folded napkin. 



168 VEGETABLEvS 

STEWED CORN 

Husk and clean the corn, and leave it in cold water for 
fifteen minutes. With a sharp knife split each row of grains 
all the way down from stem to tip of the ear; then shave, 
rather than cut, them off down to the cob. Cover with hot 
water in a sauce-pan, and stew slowly for twenty minutes. 
Stir in a tablespoonful of butter for a pint of corn; pepper 
and salt and serve. 



STEWED CORN AND TOMATOES 

Cook as in last recipe, and when the corn has simmered five 
minutes add a cupful of chopped tomatoes (peeled). Cook 
twenty minutes longer after the boil recommences, season and 
serve. If there is much liquid in the stew, roll the butter in 
flour before adding it, and boil a minute more than if the 
flour were not used. 

CORN OR APPLE FRITTERS 

2 eggs. A little salt. 

^ cup milk, 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 cups flour. . der. 

1 cup corn. 

Make into a thick batter and drop in spoonfuls into boiling 
lard. May use chopped apples instead ,of corn. 

CORN FRITTERS 

2 cups grated corn. A pinch of soda. 
2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful melted but 

1 cup milk. ter. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. Salt and pepper. 

Mix and fry as you would griddle-cakes, and send in hot, 
in relays. 



I 



II 



VEGETABLES 1(59 

SUCCOTASH 

6 ears of corn. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 pt. string beans cut in 1 cup milk, 
pieces. Pepper and salt. 

Cut the corn from the cob, bruising as little as possible. 
Put over the fire with the beans in enough hot water, salted, 
to cover them, and stew gently half an hour. Turn off nearly 
all the water and add a cupful of milk. Simmer in this, 
stirring to prevent burning, twenty minutes ; add the floured 
butter, the pepper and salt, and stew ten minutes. Serve in 
a deep dish. 

CANNED CORN 

may be used satisfactorily in most dishes that call for green 
corn. If, before cooking it, the contents of the can be turned 
into a fine colander, and cold water poured over it to wash 
off the liquor in which it was preserved, the taste will be 
cleaner and sweeter. Like all other "canned goods" corn 
should be opened and poured out upon an open dish for some 
hours before it is used to get rid of the close, smoky flavor 
and smell. 

CORN FRITTERS 

One can of corn, two eggs, seasoning to taste, two table- 
spoonfuls of milk or cream. Beat eggs well; add corn by 
degrees, beating very hard ; salt to taste ; one tablespoonful of 
butter; stir in milk and thickening enough to hold together 
for frying. 

GREEN PEAS 

Shell and wash ; put them in slightly salted boiling water, 
and cook them in this for twenty-five minutes. Drain well, 
turn into a hot dish, put a lump of butter the size of an egg 
upon them and a little pepper and salt. 



170 VEGETABLES 

CANNED PEAS 

Drain and feave in cold water for ten minutes, put on in 
salted boiling water, cook fifteen minutes ; drop in a lump of 
white sugar and a small sprig of mint, and cook five minutes 
longer. Drain, butter, pepper and salt, and serve. 

PUREE OF GREEN PEAS 

Shell half a peek of peas and set them in a cold place 
while you boil the pods for twenty minutes in just enough 
hot, salted water to cover them. Strain them; return the 
water to the fire with the peas and a sprig of mint, and boil 
until they are soft enough to rub through a colander. "When 
you have pressed all through that will go, stir into them a 
cupful of the water in which they were cooked, season with 
pepper and salt and put back into the colander. As they 
begin to simmer stir in a roux of one tablespoonful of flour, 
cooked for three minutes in two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
cook one minute, take from the fire and add three tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, that have been heated with a tiny bit of soda. 
Pour upon squares of fried bread laid on a hot platter. 

PLAIN PUREE OF GREEN PEAS 

Boil and rub a quart of peas through a colander, or pass 
them through a vegetable-press. Heat a tablespoonful of 
butter in a saucepan with pepper, paprica, or a dash of cay- 
enne, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and three mint leaves, 
finely minced. Stir in the pulped peas and toss and stir with 
a silver fork until they are very hot. Pile upon a hot platter 
and lay triangles of fried bread about the base. 

GREEN-PEA PANCAKES 

Two cupfuls of green peas left over from dinner, or boiled 
expressly for this dish, mashed while hot, and rubbed through 



4 



VEGETABLES 171 

a colander. Season with pepper, salt, and butter to taste; 
let them get cold ; then add two beaten eggs and a cupful of 
milk. Sift half a teaspoonful of baking powder twice 
through half a cupful of flour, and beat in lightly at the 
last. Mix well and bake as you would griddle-cakes. 
Eat hot. 

"BLACK-EYED PEAS" 

are really a species of bean, although known at the South, 
where they are abundant, by the name given above. They 
are boiled always with a bit of fat bacon, to give them rich- 
ness. Drain well, pepper, salt, and serve with the bacon on 
the top of the peas ; or, after they are boiled they are drained 
and turned into a frying-pan in which slices of fat bacon 
have been cooked and then taken out, leaving the fat in the 
pan. Saute the peas in this until dry, hot, and well sea- 
soned by the fat. Serve dry, and lay the fried bacon on or 
about the peas. Dried black-eyed peas must be soaked over 
night. 

LIMA BEAITS 

Put them into salted boiling water, and cook until tender, 
then drain off the water. ]\Ioisten them with butter, and 
season with salt and pepper ; and add, if convenient, a little 
hot cream or cover with white sauce. 

LIMA BEANS 

'After shelling, cook about half an hour in boiling water 
with a little salt. Drain dry, and after dishing stir in a lump 
of butter half the size of an egg and pepper and salt to taste. 

LIMA BEANS (STEWED) 

Shell a quart of beans, and boil tender in hot, salted water. 
Drain, add four tablespoonfuls of hot milk, in which has 
been melted a tablespoonful of butter rolled in a teaspoonful 



172 VEGETABLES 

of flour. Simmer for five minutes, season with pepper and 
Bait, and serve. 

KIDNEY BEANS 

If fresh, cook them as you would Lima beans. If driedj 
soak over night, and put over the fire in the morning in 
salted boiling water, and cook gently one hour, or until soft, 
but not broken. Drain, stir in pepper, salt, and a lump of 
butter, and serve. 

KIDNEY BEANS A LA LYONNAISE 

Soak over night and boil tender, but not until they break ; 
drain perfectly dry, throw in a little salt, and leave over an 
empty pot in the colander at the side of the range, as you 
would potatoes, to "dry off." Have ready in a frying-pan a 
great spoonful of clarified dripping (that from roast beef is 
best), with half a small onion, grated, and a little chopped 
parsley. Salt and pepper to taste, and when hissing hot put 
in the beans. Shake over the fire about two minutes, until 
the contents of the pan are well mixed, and as hot as may be 
without scorching, then serve. 

CAULIFLOWER ATI GRATIN 

Boil one or two cauliflowers (after removing leaves) until 
tender. Strain off the water and place in a dish. Cover 
with grated cheese, some white sauce and some fried bread- 
crumbs. Add some small pieces of butter and bake until a 
nice brown. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER 

Boil the cauliflower, tied in a net, in plenty of hot, salted 
water, in which has been stirred a tablespoonful of vinegar ; 
when done, drain and dish, the flower upward. Pour over it 
a cupful of drawn butter seasoned with lemon-juice, pepper, 
and salt. Serve very hot. 



VEGETABLES 173 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Cook as directed in last recipe, but when dished pour over 
it, instead of the white sauce, a cupful of strained tomato 
sauce, seasoned with butter, sugar, salt, and paprica. 

CAULIFLOWER (PARISIAN STYLE) 

Boil a good-sized cauliflower until tender, chop it coarsely, 
and press it hard in a bowl or mould, so that it will keep its 
form when turned out. Put the shape thus made upon a 
dish that will stand the heat, and pour over it a tomato 
sauce. ]\Iake this by cooking together a tablespoonful of 
butter and flour in a saucepan, and pouring upon them a 
pint of strained tomato-juice in which half an onion has 
been stewed. Stir until smooth, and thicken still more by 
the addition of three or four tablespoonfuls of cracker-dust. 
Salt to taste, turn the sauce over the moulded cauliflower, 
set it in the oven for about ten minutes, and serve in the 
dish in which it is cooked. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN (ITALIAN) 

Boil in hot, salted water and divide into tiny clusters, a 
"flower" or two on each. Butter a deep dish and put in 
a layer of these, sprinkling with butter, salt, and pepper, 
and covering first with Parmesan cheese, then with cracker- 
crumbs. Wet each layer with milk, and fill the dish in this 
order, finishing with a layer of crumbs dotted with butter- 
bits, and dusted with cayenne. Bake, covered, half an hour, 
then brown. Serve in the dish. 

STEWED CAUnFLOWER A LA HOLLANDAISE 

Cut into large clusters of uniform size and stew tender in 
weak stock or bouillon. (This may be utilized afterward for 
soup.) Drain, butter, salt, and pepper, and pass with it 



174 VEGETABLES 

drawn-butter, into which have been whipped the yolks of two 
raw eggs. This is a Dutch recipe and good. 

BAKED CAULIFLOWER 

Cut into clusters and stew tender in boiling, salted water. 
Or, if you have a couple of small cauliflowers, boil them 
whole and dish together. Drain and lay in a bake-dish. 
iPour over it a good white sauce (hot), sprinkle with grated 
cheese and papriea, and bake, covered, twenty minutes. It 
will be found very nice. 

CAULIFLOWER AU QRATIN 

Cook cauliflower; drain well and remove the flowerettes, 
tear the rest to pieces with a fork, lay it in a deep dish and 
sprinkle over it a little salt, pepper and grated cheese and a 
few dried crumbs moistened wdth milk. Then add the top 
layer of the flowerettes and sprinkle with the salt, pepper 
and cheese, and bake until slightly brown. 

FRENCH SPINACH 

Boil as directed in foregoing recipes, chop, heat with the 
roux, and season with pepper and salt. In place of the 
cream in the German method, add the same quantity of 
white stock — chicken or veal — adding half a saltspoonful of 
nutmeg or mace and an even teaspoonful of sugar, with a 
pinch of grated lemon-peel. This seasoning imparts an ex- 
quisite flavor to the vegetable. 

SPINACH SOUFFLE 

1 pk. spinach. 1 teaspoonful powdered 

1 tablespoonful butter. sugar, 

1 egg, beaten. Salt and nutmeg. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. Black pepper. 

Whites 3 eggs. 



VEGETABLES 175 

Boil and chop spinach, and while hot stir in butter and 
beaten egg, salt, and nutmeg. Season with a little sugar, 
pepper, and set away to get cold. When you are ready for 
it, whip into the cold spinach the cream and the stiffened 
whites of the eggs. Pour into a handsome bake-dish, sift a 
small teaspoonful of powdered sugar on top, and bake in a 
hot oven ten minutes, covered, five minutes W'hen j^ou have 
uncovered it. Send immediately to table, as it soon falls. 
It may be served as a separate course at a luncheon. Each 
portion should be helped out upon a square of fried bread 
laid upon each plate; 

SPINACH BOILED (PLAIN) 

Wash a peck of spinach, pick the leaves from the stems, 
and, without shaking off the wet, put them into an agate-iron 
or porcelain saucepan. Set this in a pot of boiling water, 
cover closely, and cook for fifteen minutes. Stir up well 
from the bottom, then, and put into the saucepan a table- 
spoonful of hot water in which has been dissolved half a 
saltspoon of soda. Beat in well, cover the pot, and cook ten 
minutes longer. Drain the spinach in a colander without 
pressing it at first, seasoning with salt, pepper, butter, a little 
sugar, and half a teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Turn into a 
hot colander, press out the remaining juice very gently not 
to bruise the spinach, and serve on a heated platter. Cover 
with slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve one with each por- 
tion of spinach. The soda gives a fine green to this vege- 
table. 

SPINACH SOUFFLE 

Boil some spinach thoroughly, pass it through a sieve and 
add two or three well-beaten eggs and a small amount of milk 
"with pepper and salt ; mix it thoroughly, put it in well but- 
tered souffle dishes and bake for ten minutes. This makes a 
nutritious and tasty dish. 



176 VEGETABLES 

BOILED SftUASH 

Pare off the outer shell, take out the seeds, and cut into 
small pieces. Boil in hot, salted water until tender. If 
young, twenty minutes will do this; a longer time is re- 
quired for full-grown squash. Drain well, rub through a 
vegetable-press, and return to the saucepan. Mix with salt, 
pepper, and a tablespoonful of butter made into a roux with 
a tablespoonful of flour. Stir and beat for a whole minute, 
until you have a creamy, smoking mass, and pour out. 
Squash cooked in this way is a very different thing from the 
watery stuff usually served under that name. 

BAKED SQUASH 

1 squash. | cup milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Bread-crumbs, salt and pep- 

1 egg. per. 

Boil and mash the squash, stir in butter, and egg, beaten 
light, millv, and pepper and salt to taste. Fill a buttered 
pudding-dish with this, strew fine bread-crumbs over the 
top and bake to a nice brown. 

SQUASH FRITTERS 

2 cups cooked and creamed Saltspoonful of salt, 
squash (cold). -J cup flour. 

2 cups milk. | teaspoonful baking powder. 

2 eggs. 

To squash add milk, eggs, salt, and flour in which has 
been sifted the baking powder. There should be just enough 
flour to hold the mixture together. Bake on a griddle as 
you would cakes, and send to table hot. 



\t:getables 177 

FRIED EGG-PLANT 

1 egg-plant. ^ cup flour, 

1 egg. Pepper and salt. 

1 cup milk. Lard for frying. 

Slice the egg-plant about half an inch thick, peeling the 
slices. Lay them in salt and water for an hour, placing a 
plate on them to keep them down. "Wipe each slice dry, and 
dip into batter made of egg, millr, flour, pepper and salt. 
Fry in boiling dripping. Drain off all the grease, 

BROIIED EGG-PLANT 

Peel and cut into rather thin slices and lay in salted ice- 
water for an hour; spread upon a soft towel and cover with 
another, patting and pressing the slices until they are en- 
tirely dry. Leave them for ten minutes in a mixture of 
three tablespoonfuls of olive oil and the juice of half a 
lemon ; sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and broil quickly 
upon a wire broiler. Twelve minutes should cook both sides. 

STEWED CARROTS 

Scrape and boil whole three-quarters of an hour, drain, 
and cut into cubes half an inch square. Have ready in a 
saucepan enough weak stock to cover the carrot-dice. Put 
them on in it and cook twenty minutes, or until tender. 
Add then two tablespoonfuls of milk, a tablespoonful of 
butter cut up in one of flour, salt and pepper to taste. Sim- 
mer five minutes and serve. 

YOUNG CARROTS A LA PARISIENNE 

Boil for five minutes ; take up and rub off the skins with 
a coarse cloth. Return to the fire and cook until tender. 
Slice lengthwise, making three pieces of a medium-sized car- 



178 VEGETABLES 

rot, two of a small. Have hot in a frying-pan a tablespoon- 
ful of butter for each cupful of the carrots, and when it 
bubbles lay in the slices. Saute on both sides, quickly, and 
just before taking them up sprinkle with chopped parsley. 
Dish dry; stew over them a little white sugar, pepper, and 
salt, and serve very hot. 

CREAMED YOUNa CAEROTS 

Young carrots. 4 tablespoonfuls cream, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 1 teaspoonful chopped pars- 
Hot water. ley. 
Salt and pepper. Beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 

Scald for five minutes and rub off the skins with a rough 
cloth. Slice crosswise and thin. Heat in a saucepan butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of hot water, salt and pepper to taste, and 
put in the sliced carrots. Cook gently, covered, for half an 
hour. In another saucepan heat cream and chopped parsley. 
When the mixture boils take from the fire and pour upon 
the beaten yolks of eggs. Stir up well, pour over the car- 
rots, cook one scant minute. 

FRIED SWEET PEPPERS 

Cut open crosswise, extract the seeds, cut the peppers into 
slices, lay in cold water for fifteen minutes, salt slightly, dust 
with flour and fry in hot cottolene for five or six minutes. 
They are an appetizing accompaniment to cold meat or to 
boiled fish. 

STUFFED SWEET PEPPERS 

Make an incision in one side, and extract the seeds through 
this with a bit of stick. Stuff with a force-meat of tongue, 
chicken, ham, or veal, mixed up with boiled rice, and sea- 
soned with salt, a dash of onion-juice, and a little butter. 
Sew up the peppers with a few stitches, pack them into a 



VEGETABLES 179 

bake-dish, pour in enough weak stock to keep them from 
burning, cover and bake in a moderate oven for an hour, then 
dish, withdrawing the strings. Keep hot while you add to 
the gravy in the dish a tablespoonful of brown roux. Boil 
up once and pour over the peppers. Should the gravy have 
boiled away too much, put in a little boiling water to thin 
the roux. This is a Syrian recipe and excellent. 

BUTTEEED PARSNIPS 

Boil tender and scrape. Slice lengthwise and saute in a 
little butter heated in a frying-pan and seasoned with pep- 
per, salt, and minced parsley. Shake and turn until the 
parsnips are well coated and hot through. Dish, and pour 
the butter over them. 

FRIED PARSNIPS 

Boil tender in salted, hot water; let them get cold, scrape 
off the skin and slice lengthwise. Pepper and salt, dredge 
with flour, and fry in hot dripping to a light brown. Drain 
and serve. 

PARSNIP CAKES 

Wash, boil, and scrape the parsnips tender. While hot 
mash, season with salt and pepper, and make with floured 
hands into small, flat cakes. Flour well and fry in clarified 
dripping. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS 

Boil, scrape, and slice crosswise. Heat a tablespoonful of 
butter in a saucepan; put in the parsnips and shake and 
turn until all are coated with the butter and very hot. 
Turn them into a deep dish and pour over them a sauce made 
by adding to the butter left in the saucepan a teaspoonful of 
flour and thinning it with three or four tablespoonfuls of 
hot cream. Boil up once, and when you have covered the 
parsnips with it, serve. 



180 VEGETABLES 

BOILED ARTICHOKES 

Pare off the stems and the lower and coarser leaves. With 
a sharp knife trim the tops evenly, and take out the hard 
core. Wash and lay in cold water ten minutes. Shake off 
the wet and cook in boiling, salted water for thirty-five min- 
utes, or until the bottoms are tender. If large, cut into 
halves; if of moderate size, serve whole with drawn butter 
or sauce piquante poured over them. 

CREAMED CELERY 

Cut into inch-long pieces. Cook tender in boiling, salted 
water, drain this off, and cover with a cupful of hot milk 
(half cream, if you have it) in which has been stirred a 
tablespoonful of white roux. Simmer five minutes and 
serve. 

SAVORY CELERY 

Select the whitest and tenderest stalks and lay aside in 
ice-water. Cut the outer, coarser stalks into three-inch 
lengths, and stew in a cupful of stock, seasoned with half 
teaspoonful of onion-juice, salt, pepper, and parsley. Cook, 
covered, for an hour, slowly. Drain and press in a colander. 
Keturn the stock to the fire, and when it boils put the re- 
served stalks, also cut into short lengths, into it. Cook 
gently until tender, thicken with a good spoonful of roux, 
boil up and serve. 



VEGETABLES 181 

WEITTEN RECIPES 



182 VEGETABLES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



I 



VEGETABLES 183 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



184 VEGETABLES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

It depends as much upon the judgment of the cook as on 
the materials used to make a good pudding. Everything 
should be the best in the way of materials, and a proper at- 
tention to the rules, with some practice, will ensure success. 

Puddings are either boiled, baked, or steamed; if boiled, 
the materials should be well worked together, put into a 
thick cloth bag, previously dipped in hot water, wringing it 
slightly and dredging the inside thickly with flour; tie it 
firmly, allowing room for it to swell ; drop it into a kettle of 
boiling water, with a small plate or saucer in the bottom to 
keep it from sticking to the kettle. It should not cease boil- 
ing one moment from the time it is put in until taken out, 
and the pot must be tightly covered, and the cover not re- 
moved except when necessary to add water from the boiling 
tea-kettle when the water is getting low. "When done, dip 
immediately in cold water and turn out. This should be done 
just before placing on the table. 

Or, butter a tin pudding mould or an earthen bowl ; close 
it tight so that water cannot penetrate; drop it into boiling 
water and boil steadily the required time. If a bowl is used 
it should be well buttered, and not quite filled with the 
pudding, allowing room for it to swell; then a cloth wet in 
hot water, slightly wringing it, then floured on the inner 
side, and tied over the bowl, meeting under the bottom. 

To steam a pudding, put it into a tin pan or earthen dish ; 
tie a cloth over the top, first dredging it in flour, and set it 
into a steamer. Cover the steamer closely; allow a little 
longer time than you do for boiling. 

^'^Dulds or basins for baking, steaming or boiling should 
b« well buttered before the mixture is put into them. 

185 



186 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

Dumplings boiled the same way, put into little separate 
cloths. 

Batter puddings should be smoothly mixed and free from 
lumps. To ensure this, first mix the flour with a very small 
proportion of milk, the yolks of the eggs and sugar thorough- 
ly beaten together, and added to this ; then add the remainder 
of the milk by degrees, then the seasoning, then the beaten 
whites of eggs last. Much success in making this kind of 
pudding depends upon a strict observance of this rule ; for, 
although the materials may be good, if the eggs are put into 
the milk before they are mixed with the flour, there will be 
a custard at the top and a soft dough at the bottom of your 
dish. 

All sw^eet puddings require a little salt to prevent insipid- 
ity and to draw out the flavor of the several ingredients, but 
a grain too much will spoil any pudding. 

In puddings where wine, brandy, cider, lemon-juice or 
any acid is used, it should be stirred in last, and gradually, 
or it is apt to curdle the milk or eggs. 

In making custard puddings (puddings made w^ith eggs 
and milk), the yolk of the eggs and sugar should be 
thoroughly beaten together before any of the milk or season- 
ing is added, and the beaten whites of egg last. 

In making puddings of bread, rice, sago, tapioca, etc., the 
eggs should be beaten very light, and mixed with a portion 
of the milk, before adding them to the other ingredients. If 
the eggs are mixed with the milk, without having been thus 
beaten, the milk will be absorbed by the bread, rice, sago, 
tapioca, etc., without rendering them light. 

The freshness of all pudding ingredients is of much im- 
portance, as one bad article will taint the whole mixture. 

"When the freshness of eggs is doubtful, break each one 
separately in a cup, before mixing them all together. The 
yolks and whites beaten separately make the articles they 
are put into much lighter. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 187 

Raisins and dried fruits for puddings should be carefully 
picked, and, in many cases, stoned. Currants 'should be well 
^^aghed, pressed in a cloth, and placed on a dish before the 
fire to get thoroughly dry ; they should then be picked care- 
fully over, and every piece of grit or stone removed from 
amongst them. To plump them, some cooks pour boiling 
water over them, and afterwards dry them carefully before 
the fire. 

Many baked-pudding recipes are quite as good boiled. As 
a safe rule, boil the pudding twice as long as you would re- 
quire to bake it ; and remember that a boiling pudding 
should never be touched after it is once put on the stove ; a 
jar of the kettle destroys the lightness of the pudding. If 
the water boils down and more must be added, it must be 
done so carefully that the mould will not hit the side of the 
kettle, and it must not be allowed to stop boiling for an 
instant. 

Batter should never stick to the knife when it is sent to 
the table ; it will do this both when an insufficient number 
of eggs is mixed with it and when it is not enough cooked; 
about four eggs to the half pound of flour will make it firm 
enough to cut smoothly. 

When baked or boiled puddings are sufficiently solid, turn 
them out of the dish they were baked in, bottom uppermost, 
and strew over them finely sifted sugar. 

When pastry or baked puddings are not done through, 
and yet the outside is sufficiently brown, cover them over 
with a piece of white paper until thoroughly cooked; this 
prevents them from scorching. . 

TO CLEAN CTTRRANTS 

Put them in a sieve or colander, and sprinkle them thickly 
with flour; rub them well until they are separated, and the 
flour, grit and fine stems have passed through the strainer. 



188 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

Place the strainer and currants in a pan of water and wash 
thoroughly, then lift the strainer and the currants together, 
and change the water until it is clear. Dry the currants 
between clean towels. It hardens them to dry in an oven. 

TO CHOP SUET 

Break or cut in small pieces, sprinkle with sifted flour, 
and chop in a cold place to keep it from becoming sticky 
and soft. 

TO STONE RAISINS 

Put them in a dish and pour boiling water over them; 
cover and let them remain in it ten minutes; it will soften 
so that by rubbing each raisin between the thumb and 
finger, the seeds will come out clean; then they are ready 
for cutting or chopping if required. 

MARMALADE PUDDING 

4 tablespoonfuls marmalade. 1 cup flour. 

3 cups breadcrumbs. 1 teaspoonful baking-pow- 

^ cup milk. der. 

1 cup suet. Pinch of salt. 

Steam and serve with sauce. 

COLD FRUIT PUDDING 

Hot stewed fruit poured over layers of bread and butter 
in a mould; when cold serve with cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 

Two tablespoonfuls butter, one cup white sugar, one egg, 
one cup milk, one pint flour, two tablespoonfuls baking 
powder; bake and serve with sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 189 

PLUM PUDDING 



1 lb. 


stoned raisins. 


A little milk. 


1 lb. 


currants. 


2 oz. orange peel. 


1 lb. 


beef suet. 


6 oz. flour. 


1- lb. 


sugar. 


1 lb. breadcrumbs. 


2 oz. 


lemon peel. 


Little nutmeg, einnamonj 


2 oz. 


citron peel. 


cloves and a little salt. 


6 eg£ 


?s. 





Mix all together with eggs and milk; dip cloth in boiling 
water, flour, and put in mixture, and tie loosely ; boil fast for 
four hours and a half. 



CARAMEL PUDDING 

4 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 
^ cup brown sugar. Vanilla. 

1 pt. milk. 

Put sugar on stove and stir until brown. Put on stove 
again to simmer one pint milk, two tablespoonfuls corn 
starch, vanilla flavoring. When all are ready mix together, 
and stir until thick. Put in a mould to cool. 



CHEESE PUDDING FOR LUNCHEON 

Toast four slices of bread, place in a small baking-dish, 
cover with thick layer of grated cheese, dust lightly with 
salt and pepper, cover with another slice of bread, then a 
layer of cheese, and so on until you have used the four slices 
of toast, having the top bread ; baste over one half a pint of 
hot milk, bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 



190 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

PLUM PUDDING (Carrot Pudding) 

^ lb. suet. ^ teaspoonful each ground 

•| lb. flour. allspice and cloves. 

^ lb. raisins. Little black pepper. 

^ lb. currants. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

■J lb. grated potato. Citron, lemon, orange peel 

^ lb. grated carrots. and chopped almonds may 

^ cup molasses. be added. 

Steam three and one-half or four hours. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE PUDDING 

4 eggs. 8 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 

1 cup sugar. der. 

3 tablespoonfuls milk. 1 cup flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 

Beat lightly together yolks of eggs and one cup sugar, 
add milk, grated chocolate and baking powder ; sift in flour, 
add egg whites stiffly beaten. Butter a mould with pipe in 
centre, fill two-thirds full and steam three-quarters of an 
hour. Turn out and cover with chocolate sauce, fill centre 
with whipped cream and chopped almonds. 

PARADISE PUDDING 

One pint bread crumbs, four eggs, one pint suet, four 
apples minced fine, one cup currants, one-half cup raisins, 
one cup milk, one and one-half cups sugar; season to taste, 
and thicken with flour; put in a mould and boil three and 
one-half hours. 

FIG PUDDING 

One-half pound figs, one teacup minced apples, one tea- 
cup suet, one teacup sugar, one teacup breadcrumbs, a little 
flour, two eggs, one nutmeg. Boil or steam four hours. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 191 

CARAMEL PUDDING 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 pt. milk. 1 cup brown sugar. 

Let milk boil, then add the cornstarch moistened with 
milk; boil sugar and scorch on a tin pie-dish. Then pour 
into the cornstarch, stirring very quickly. Pour into mould. 

MADEIRA PUDDING 

2 eggs. ^ teaspoonful baking-powder. 
Their weight in flour, but- A little vanilla. 

ter and sugar. 

Cream the butter. Then add the sugar; then the eggs 
one at a time ; flavor and beat in the flour and baking powder. 
If too stiff add one tablespoonful milk. Bake in small 
moulds, half full, for fifteen or twenty minutes. Sauce: 
One and one-half tablespoonfuls butter, four tablespoonfuls 
sugar, one egg ; beat all together until light. Then add boil- 
ing water just before serving, and flavor. 

CARITA PUDDING 

1 lb. figs. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

3 eggs, slightly beaten. Vanilla. 

2 cups milk. 

Grease a plain-sided oval mould with butter, and line it 
with figs, which are split through the centre lengthwise. 
Place the skin side next to the mould. Make a custard of 
milk, eggs and sugar ; place the bowl containing this custard 
in a saucepan of boiling water and stir gently until it thick- 
ens to the consistency of cream (it must on no account boil) ; 
add three drops vanilla and set it aside to cool. "When cool 
pour it into the lined mould and steam till it is set, which 
will probably be in twenty minutes. Take care that the top 



192 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

of the mould is covered to prevent the steam settling. Turn 
out of the mould to serve. To be eaten with cream and 
sugar. 

ENGLISH BOIIED BATTER PUDDING 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 1 tablespoonful white sugar. 

2 eggs, well beaten. ^ pt. milk. 

Mix well and pour into a mould well greased with drip- 
ping. Boil for one hour. Serve with wine sauce. The mould 
should be quite full to prevent water from entering. 

JOHN BULL'S OWN PLUM PUDDING 



1 lb. 


suet. 




i lb. breadcrumbs. 


1 lb. 


moist sugar. 




i lb. flour. 


1 lb. 


currants. 




1 teaspoonful salt. 


1 lb. 


raisins. 




1 teaspoonful mixed spice. 


1 lb. 


sultana raisins. 




8 eggs. 


1 lb. 


mixed candied 


peel. 


i pt. brandy. 



Mix all in the following order. Flour, salt, spice, sugar, 
raisins, peel, breadcrumbs, sultanas, and currants. Beat 
egg and strain them for ten minutes, add brandy to them 
and pour over the mass, stir until all are thoroughly mixed. 
Butter four small bowls and fill, scald cloth and flour it, tie 
down and boil five and one-half hours (or more), if one 
large pudding boil thirteen hours. I use cinnamon and nut- 
meg for spice and four small bowls. 

PRUNE PUDDING 

Stew one pound prunes and sweeten with one teaeupful of 
sugar. Beat to a very stiff froth the whites of four eggs and 
stir lightly into the prunes when prunes are quite cold. 
Bake twenty minutes. Serve cold with cream. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 193 

BLUEBEKRY PUDDING 

1 egg. 1 cup milk (sour). 

2 large tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

A little salt. Flour to make stiff batter. 

Stir in a large pint blueberries. ]\Iix and put in buttered 
basin. Steam one hour and fifteen minutes. Serve hot 
with whipped cream. 

CRACKER PTTDDINO 

10 crackers rolled. 1 cup currants. 

A piece of butter. Citron, cinnamon, nutmeg 

5 eggs. and little flour (1 table- 

1 cup sugar. spoon). 

2 cups stoned raisins. 

Soak crackers in one quart milk over night. In the 
morning add well-beaten eggs, sugar, raisins, currants, cit- 
ron, cinnamon, nutmeg, flour and salt. Steam four or five 
hours. 

Sauce for cracker pudding. — One cup sugar, one egg 
beaten to a froth ; pour one cup hot milk over it, little salt. 
Flavor with wine or brandy. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING 

One cup sugar, one egg beaten to a froth. Pour one cup 
hot milk over it; little salt. Flavor with wine or brandy. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING 

Three eggs (yolks only), two tablespoons castor sugar, 
whip to cream ; one cup sherry. Cook in double saucepan 
one minute. Serve immediately. 



194 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

SATJCE FOE COTTAGE PUDDING 

To one cup boiling water add two tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar, lump of butter size of an egg, and one egg well beaten. 
Then let all come to a boil. Take care not to scorch. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SA¥CE FOR PUDDING 

Melt one-quarter cake unsweetened chocolate with three- 
quarters of a cup of powdered sugar and one-half cup of 
boiling water, stirring all the time. Cook in a double boiler 
to the consistency of molasses. Serve hot. 

CREAM SAUCE 

1 pt. milk. ^ oz, cornstarch. 

2 eggs. 3 oz. powdered sugar. 
1 oz. flour. Vanilla flavoring. 

Put milk to boil ; break eggs into a basin ; add flour, corn- 
starch, powdered sugar, beating all well together; add the 
boiling milk gradually, stirring well. Put all in the sauce- 
pan and stir till it comes to a boil, then remove and add 
vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Two tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, three tablespoonfuls 
each of cream and flour, one cup sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
butter, one teaspoonful vanilla, boil. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

One cup water, two teaspoonfuls of flour or cornstarch, 
butter the size of an egg, pinch of salt, nutmeg and sugar to 
taste, teaspoonful of vinegar. 

FOAMY SAUCE 

The whites of two eggs, one cup sugar well beaten to- 
gether. This may be done an hour or more before serving. 



PUDDINGS AND SAtJCES 19^ 

Add last thing before sending to table one cupful of liot 
syrup of preserved pears, apricots, peaches or anj'thing of 
that sort, or a cupful of hot milk, not boiling. Beat all to- 
gether and serve. 

CUSTARD FOR CARAMEL PUDDING 

One egg, one pint milk, a little sugar, a pinch of salt, one 
tablespoonful of cornstarch. 

SYRUP FROM ORANGE PEEL 

Peel four sweet oranges, being careful not to get any of 
the white skin in, put the yellow skin in three pints of cold 
water and half a pound of loaf sugar, and cook together into 
a syrup. This is nice for flavoring. 

FOAM SAUCE 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, beaten to a cream, 
then add the yolks of two eggs and a wineglass of sherry; 
then add the beaten whites, and stand in a bowl of hot water. 
Stir for one minute. 

CARAMEL PUDDING 

1 cup granulated sugar. Yolks of 8 eggs. 

1 pt. cream. 1 glass rye whisky. 

Rind of ^ lemon. 

Melt sugar to a light brown. Line a mould with it by 
putting some in and turning the mould till cool. Sweeten 
cream to taste, put in the sweetened cream, the grated rind 
of one-half a lemon; put all into a double boiler. When it 
comes to a boil pour into a basin and let cool. Add the 
yolks of eggs and whisky. Stir all together and strain into 
the prepared mould. Tie kitchen paper over mould and 



196 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

steam three-quarters of an hour. Care must be taken to 
steam exactly the three-quarters of an hour or the pudding 
"will not be firm. Serve with whipped cream. 

Pia PUDDING 

1 cup chopped figs. 1 large cup brown sugar. 

1 cup milk. 2 eggs. 

2 large cups grated bread- 1 cup chopped suet, 
crumbs. A pinch of salt. 

Pour over figs boiling milk, grated bread-crumbs, brown 
sugar, eggs, salt, and suet. Either steam or boil for four 
hours and serve with sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING 

I lb, breadcrumbs. i lb. mixed peel. 

1 lb. raisins. J lb. brown sugar. 

1 lb. currants. 1 small teaspoonful salt. 

1 lb. chopped suet. 1 nutmeg. 

8 eggs (well beaten). 1 wineglass brandy. 

2 apples, chopped fine. A little milk or molasses. 

Boil six hours, or, if some days before, four, and when 
wanted two hours. 

TAPIOCA FRUIT PUDDING 

One cup tapioca steeped over night in one quart of water ; 
drain off water in the morning, add one cup of sugar and the 
rind and juice of one lemon to tapioca. Put box and a half 
of fresh fruit (red currants delicious) in pudding-dish; put 
in tapioca and mix; bake in a slow oven for one hour. To 
be served cold. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 197 

POLKA PUDDING 

4 tablespoonfuls arrow root '1 dessertspoonful rose water, 

4 €ggs. A few drops essence of lemon. 

3 oz. fresh butter, ' 3 pts. of milk. 
1 teacup white sugar. 

Mix arrowroot in a pint of cold milk, beat eggs well, add 
then butter, cut into small bits ; rose water, essence of lemon 
or ratafia, sugar. Boil two pints of milk in a double boiler. 
AVhen boiling stir in the other ingredients, without taking 
the boiler off the stove. Let it boil till thick, then pour into 
a mould to cool ; turn it out and serve cold. Half this quan- 
tity will be sufficient for a small family. 

CAKE PUDDING 

1 egg. 1 cup flour. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 

f cup of sugar. der. 

1 cup milk. 

Butter the mould, then put in a little preserve and then 
your batter. Steam one hour. 

BAKED SUET PUDDING 

Half a cupful of sugar, half a cupful of suet, one egg, one 
cup of milk, two heaping cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. This is very good eaten with maple syrup. 

CREAMY SAUCE 

J cup buttei'. ^ cup powdered sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls wine. 2 tablespoonfuls cream. 

Cream butter, add sugar slowly, then wine and cream. 
Beat well and just before using, place bowl over hot water 



198 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

and stir till creamy, but not enough to melt the butter. 
When the wine and cream are added, the sauce has a curdled 
appearance. This is removed by beating and heating enough 
to blend materials. Sauce should be cold when served. 

GINGER PUDDING 

3 cups flour. 3 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 

■| cup sugar. der. 

•| cup golden syrup. 2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 

^ cup suet. 

Mix with water to a thin batter; steam two hours and 
eat with sweet sauce. 

CHEAP PLUM PUDDING 

One cup of suet, one cup of molasses, one cup sweet milk, 
one cup of seeded raisins, three cups of flour, a little salt and 
soda and one egg. Boil three or four hours. 

SPONGE PUDDING 

1 pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar, 

2 oz. flour. 6 eggs, beaten separately, 

JMix milk, sugar and flour and heat but not boil. Take 
off the fire and put in butter, the yolks of eggs thoroughly 
beaten, then the whites. Bake twenty-five minutes in a pan 
or mould set in hot water. Eat with foam sauce. 

RICE APPLE DUMPLING 

Boil a half pound of rice and season it with butter and 
salt. After removing it from the fire stir in two well-beaten 
eggs. Have ready squares of white muslin. Dip them one 
by one in hot water, sprinkle with flour and put in each two 
tablespoonfuls of the rice. Spread the rice and in the centre 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 199 

place a peeled and cored apple. In the cavity left by the 
core, put some currant jelly and sugar or spice and sugar, 
draw the corners of the cloth together and fasten closely at 
the top with pins. Boil or steam for a half hour. Serve 
with cream or vanilla sauce. 

WHOLE WHEAT FIG PUDDIN<3- 

One and a half cups of grated whole wheat bread-crumbs ; 
rub into it half a cupful of butter; add half a cupful of 
sugar, one cupful of chopped figs, one egg well beaten, and a 
good half cup of milk. Steam three hours. 

BROWN PUDDINa 

Three eggs and their weight in sugar, flour and butter, or 
a little less butter, half a teaspoouful of soda, four table- 
spoonfuls of raspberry jam. Steam two hours. Serve with 
cream sauce. 

PLUIE PUDDING 

1| lbs. muscatel raisins. Rind of 2 lemons. 

IJ lbs. currants. 1 oz. ground nutmeg. 

1 lb. sultana raisins. 1 oz. ground cinnamon. 

2 lbs. moist sugar. 2 oz. chopped almonds. 
2 lbs. breadcrumbs, ^ pt. brandy. 

2 lbs. chopped suet. 6 eggs. 

6 oz. mixed peel. 

Mix all the dry ingredients together and moisten with the 
brandy and well-beaten eggs. Boil about six hours. 

MACARONI PUDDING 

Break eight or ten long sticks of macaroni into pieces an 
inch long or less. Throw into a saucepan with plenty of 
boiling water and cook for twenty minutes. Drain away the 



200 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

water and boil again more slowly for another twenty minutes 
in a quart of milk with a cup of sugar and a slice of butter. 
Turn into a pudding dish and allow to cool. Beat in three 
eggs, flavor with vanilla, oil of cloves or oil of cinnamon, 
and bake slowly. Or use four eggs, keeping two whites to 
be beaten stiffly for the top. Brown in the oven for a minute 
or two. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING 

Cut some slices of home-made bread, about half an inch 
thick, butter and lay in a pudding-dish, sprinkle with cur- 
rants, put in another layer of buttered bread and currants. 
Beat three eggs light and stir into a pint of milk, sweeten to 
taste ; flavor with a little grated lemon-peel or cinnamon, 
pour over the bread and butter and bake in a moderate oven 
until the custard is set. Test with a knife ; if the knife comes 
out clean the pudding is done. If baked too long the pud- 
ding will be watery. Serve cold in the dish in which it is 
baked, with a simple sauce. 

ICE PUDDING 

3 eggs. [White cherries, plums, citron, 
1 pt. milk. almonds (pounded), 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 'Angelica, pineapple. 

4 tablespoonfuls sherry. ^ glass curagao. 

1 pt. cream. Macaroons (crushed). 

Candied ginger, red cherries. 

Make custard of milk and eggs and flavoring, the night 
before, as it is better. The fruit must be cut fine, having 
been soaked the night before in curacao. Whip cream a 
little, mix cold custard with it, half freeze in freezer. Do 
this very slov,dy, then mix in macaroons, then fruit; let freeze 
a while longer. "When frozen put in shape. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 201 

DATE OR Fia PUDDING 

•J lb. dates or figs. -J lb. breadcrumbs. 

I lb. suet. A little salt and nutmeg. 

^ teaspoonful soda. 2 eggs. 

5 oz. brown sugar. 

Mix all the ingredients with well-beaten eggs. Put into 
buttered mould, and boil two and a half hours. Serve with 
brandy sauce. The pudding is improved by soaking the 
dates beforehand in a small cupful of sherry or whiskey. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

3 eggs. 1 pt. of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls flour sifted 1 teaspoonful salt, 
twice. 

Put flour and salt into a bowl, break eggs into it ; mix well, 
and add milk by degrees, beating till well mixed. Cook 
twenty to thirty minutes in heat of cake oven. 

BON ACCORD PUDDING 

4 good sized apples. 4 oz. raisins. 

•| lb. breadcrumbs. 'A little salt and nutmeg. 

4 oz. sugar. 3 eggs. 

Pare, core and mince apples quite fine. Beat up and add 
eggs to the other ingredients, beating all well. Put into a 
buttered mould, tie down with a cloth, and boil for an hour 
and a half. Serve with sweet sauce. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING 

Spread your bread with a little butter and cut into slices 
about half an inch thick, and put into a flat buttered pud- 
ding dish, put one layer on the bottom of the dish and then 



202 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

put some raisins over it; do this until the dish is full and 
then make a little custard with two eggs to a pint and a half 
of milk, pour the custard over the bread, first sprinkling 
sugar over the bread, then put a piece of butter, about a 
dessertspoonful, in the custard, so that it will float on the 
top. Bake in a moderate oven. 

PINEAPPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING 

One cup pearl tapioca, soak over night and boil in the 
morning until clear; add one cup sugar, one teaspoonful 
vanilla, one pint grated or finely chopped pineapple and set 
away to cool. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

PATTERDALE PUDDING 

3 eggs. 

^ lb. butter. 

Beat the butter to a cream, beat the eggs in one by one, 
then add the sugar and flour. Put into cups and bake in a 
moderately heated oven twenty minutes. This is a prime 
recipe. 

CARKOT PUDDING 



1 
1 
1 
1 
1 


cup grated carrots. 

cup grated potato. 

cup brown sugar. 

cup suet. 

large cup raisins. 

Steam in mould three hour 


1 large cup currants. 
1 egg. 

A little chopped peel. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Salt and spice to taste. 
s. Brandy sauce. 








ARRAT PUDDING 


2; 


lb. macaroons. 
1 lbs. ladies' fingers soaked 
in wine. 


6 eggs. 

2^ cups sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatine. 



PUDDIXGS AND SAUCES 203 

Beat macaroons, ladyfiugers, eggs and sugar for one-half 
an hour; dissolve gelatine and mix with eggs after they are 
beaten, and whip quickly for a minute or two. Have 
whipped cream on top. 

CREAM SPONGE 

•J box Knox's gelatine. 1 pt. cream. 

I cup cold water. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup milk. 1 egg. 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Soak gelatine in water for one-half hour, then stand it in 
boiling water to dissolve. Scald the milk, add sugar, beat 
the egg until light, and add hot milk to egg, stirring con- 
stantly while adding, removing from fire for the purpose; 
add gelatine and flavoring, and set aside to cool but not to 
set. Whip the cream, add the cooled custard, beat well, and 
put into moulds. 

ORANGE PUDDING 

1 cup sugar. 1 orange. 
^ cup cracker crumbs. 1 pt. milk. 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful butter. 

Soak the crumbs in a little of the milk, butter and sugar, 
add grated rind and eggs beaten together, then orange juice 
and crumbs, bake half an hour in moderate oven. 

LEMON TAPIOCA PUDDING 

One small cup tapioca, soak over night in two cups of 
water; add another cup of water in the morning. Juice of 
one and a half large lemons, rind of one lemon, one cup 
sugar, yolks of two eggs beaten ; cook till the tapioca is clear 
— about an hour. Whip whites of eggs with a little sugar 
and put on the top. 



204 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

DEKBYSHIRE PUDBING 

1 pt. milk. Butter size of walnut. 

1 heaping tablespoonful 1 cup white sugar. 

flour. 1 cup blanched almonds. 

1 lemon. 4 eggs, beaten separately. 

Milk boiled; keep a wineglass milk cold and mix with 
flour, pour hot milk on this and stir thoroughly until thick; 
let cool; add grated rind of lemon, butter, and white sugar, 
blanched almonds cut in about eight pieces, the yolks of eggs 
well beaten, and whites of two eggs. All these ingredients 
well mixed and poured into a buttered pudding dish, baked 
until a light gold color, then ice with two whites left, juice 
of a lemon and a little white sugar, well beaten; return to 
oven until icing is stiff. Allow pudding to become quite 
cold. 

JELLY PUDDING 

^ oz. gelatine. Sherry. 

Yolks 5 eggs. 6 oz. sugar. 

1 lemon. ^ pt. milk. 

Dissolve gelatine in a little water, beat the yolks of eggs; 
rub sugar into them with a spoon, add half a pint of milk 
and the gelatine ; stir over fire until thick like custard. Take 
off and add the juice of a lemon and a wineglass of sherry 
and whites of eggs which have been well beaten. ]\Iix well 
together. Put in a mould and let stand until next day. 
Should be eaten with cream. 

COLD ALMOND PUDDING 

Four eggs, quarter pound of ground almonds, quarter 
pound of powdered sugar; beat the eggs until very light, 
then add the sugar and almonds gently, then beat till it 
bubbles, and put in a greased dish. Put blanched almonds 
on top and bake in rather a moderate oven. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 205 

HOT ALMOND PUDDING 
■| lb. ground almonds. 2 oz. currants, 

^ lb. sugar. 2 oz. raisins. 

•J lb. suet. , 1 oz. preserved cherries. 

2 eggs. A little angelica. 

■J lb, flour. A little ground mace. 

1 teacupful water. ^ nutmeg, grated. 

^ teaspoonful ground gin- A few drops almond extract. 

ger. 

The suet must be chopped fine. Add all the other ingredi- 
ents and work them together for ten minutes, so that all is 
well mixed. Boil for three hours or more. 

POUDING A LA PARISIENNE 
1 oz. butter. 3 eggs. 

1 oz. sugar. 4 oz. mixed fruits, pears, 

1 oz. flour. peaches, glace cherries, an- 

1 gill milk. gelica, apricots, pine-apple. 

Vanilla. etc. 

Dissolve butter in a sauce-pan, mix in sugar, flour, milk; 
stir all over the fire until boiling, cover it with a lid, and let 
it stand on a warm part of the stove for five minutes, then 
remove it to the table and stir in the yolks of the eggs, whip 
the whites to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly and 
thoroughly; now add a few drops of vanilla essence, and 
about four ounces of different sorts of fruit, cut into small 
pieces, such as pears, peaches, glace cherries, angelica, apri- 
cots, pineapple, etc. Put the pudding into a plain round 
mould, which must be previously buttered, covered with a 
greased paper, and steam for three-quarters of an hour ; turn 
on to a dish and pour wine sauce round. 

LEMON PUDDING 
Put one quart of water to boil; when boiling mix in two 
tablespoonfuls cornstarch, previously dissolved in a little 



206 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

water; the juice and grated rind of two lemons, a large cup- 
ful of white sugar. When quite thick beat in the whites of 
three eggs, beaten stiff; set aside to cool; serve with a thin 
custard made with the yolks of eggs, flavored with vanilla. 

STEAMED ROLY POLY 

f cup suet, chopped very 2 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 

fine. der. 

3 cups flour. A pinch of salt. 

1 cup water. Plum jam. 

Eoll on a board and spread thickly with plum jam. Place 
in a tin and steam one and a half or two hours. Sauce — 
Two eggs, one cup of sugar, half cup of butter. Mix well 
together and pour into the mixture one cup of boiling wine 
— sherry is best. 

PLAIN PLUM PUDDING 

Three cups of flour, two cups of suet, one teaspoonful bak- 
ing-powder, one cup of sugar, one cup of molasses. Fruit 
and spice to taste. Mix soft with milk; steam three and a 
half or four hours. 

CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING 



2 lbs. raisins. 


2 thick slices bread crumbed 


2 lbs. currants. 


fine. 


^ lb. citron or lemon peel. 


7 eggs. 


1 teacup sugar. 


1 teaspoonful ground cloves. 


2 lbs. beef suet. 


1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 


Butter size of orange. 


1 nutmeg grated. 


2 lbs. flour. 





Mix it all with milk or water, boil four hours in a bag. 
This makes two large puddings, and may be kept a month 
steamed when wanted, and eaten with a sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 207 

PLUM PUDDING 

One pound each of suet, bread crumbs, raisins, currants, 
and sugar, one glass brandy, one glass sherry, eight eggs, one 
nutmeg, a little mace or cinnamon, one saltspoonful of salt 
and milk enough to moisten ; boil six hours. Fewer currants 
and raisins may be used and the difference made up with 
candied peels, which is an improvement. 

SPONGE PUDDING 

1 pt. milk. ^ cup sugar. 

1 cup butter. 5 eggs. 

^ cup flour. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

(For eight people). Wet the flour with part of the milk, 
then cook it all in the milk ten minutes; add butter and 
sugar while hot. When cool add the yolks of eggs well 
beaten, then add the whisked whites, and stir thoroughly. 
Bake in a two-quart basin (first set in a pan of hot water), 
half an hour. Cream for sauce. 

FIG PUDDING 

One pound of figs, one pound breadcrumbs, one cup melted 
butter, half pound sugar, five eggs, one nutmeg, orange and 
lemon peel. Steam three hours. 

BROWN PUDDING 

Weight of 2 eggs in flour. 2 tablespoonfuls raspberry 

Weight of 2 in butter. jam. 

Weight of 1 in sugar. ^ teaspoonful baking soda. 

2 eggs. 

Mix sugar and eggs to a cream, beat jam till all bubbles, 
then add flour and half a teaspoonful carbonate of soda. 
Steam one hour and three-quarters. Sauce. — Yolks of three 



208 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

eggs, two tablespoonfuls castor sugar; whip to a cream with 
one cup cooking sherry in a double saucepan, just a minute. 

STEAMED SAGO PUDDING 

1 pt. milk. 3 oz. sugar. 

3 oz. sago. Grated rind of 1 lemon. 

2 oz. fresh butter. 

Put into a saucepan milk, sago, fresh butter, sugar, the 
grated rind of one lemon. Boil all together for thirteen and 
a half minutes. Work in three eggs. Mix together one-half 
tablespoon flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls sugar ; butter 
mould and dust flour and sugar into it well. Pour in the 
mixture and put buttered paper on top and steam one hour. 

MARMALADE PUDDING 



i 


lb. 


suet. 




2 tablespoonfuls orange 


mar- 


i 


lb. 


breadcrumbs. 




malade. 




i 


lb. 


sugar. 




1 egg. 




2 


oz. 


flour or ground 


rice. 


■| teaspoonful baking-powder. 


1 


tablespoonful milk. 









Finely chop the suet and put it in a bowl with the flour, 
sugar, breadcrumbs and baking powder. Mix well together. 
Beat the eggs until light, then beat into it the milk and mar- 
malade. Mix all together, pour into a well-greased mould. 
Twist over a sheet of paper and steam four hours. 

COLD PUDDING 

"Well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 
1 cup white sugar. 1 cup cold water. 

Juice and rind of 2 lemons. 

Boil together until thick ; stir well, and pour while hot into 
a pudding dish, lined first with thin stale cake. JVhen 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 209 

cooked cover the top witli three eggs (the whites) well 
whisked, and brown in the oven. Serve cold. 

APPLE MERINGTJE PUDDING 

1 pt. stewed apples, ^ teacup sugar. 

3 eggs, whites and yolks 1 teaspoonful butter- 
beaten separately. -J teaspoonful essence of al- 
Little cinnamon. mond. 

Prepare the apples as for a pie, and stew till almost a 
pulp, sweeten and spice, and while hot stir in the yolks of the 
eggs gradually. Beat very light, pour into a buttered dish, 
and bake for ten minutes. Cover, without drawing it from 
the oven, with a meringue made of the beaten whites, two 
tablespoonfuls of white sugar, and the almond flavoring. 
Spread it over with a tablespoon, evenly and quickly, close 
the oven again, and brown very slightly. Serve either hot 
or cold, as preferred. 

In making the meringues see that the eggs are quite fresh, 
whip them in a cool place, and on a cold dish, otherwise they 
will not rise properly. Use them as soon as they are whipped 
to a high snowy heap ; if left to stand they will become flat, 
and it is impossible to well froth them a second time. It 
must also be remembered that the whites will not froth to 
stiffness, if a drop of the yolk is mixed with them. 

BAKED APPIE PUDDING 

6 large apples (grated). Juice of 1 lemon and half the 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. rind grated. 

^ lb. sugar. Pastry. 

2 eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately). 

Beat the butter and sugar into a cream, stir in the yolks, 
the lemon, the grated apple, and lastly the whites of the 



210 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

eggs. Line a dish with pastry, pour in the mixture, and 
bake till nicely browned. This is best cold. 

Normandy pippins may be used for this pudding if liked. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Slices of bread and butter, with the crust trimmed off, 
six apples, the grated rind of a lemon and the juice, sugar 
to taste. 

Butter a pie-dish, and place a layer of bread-and-butter 
at the bottom, then a layer of apples, peeled, cored and cut 
into slices; sprinkle these over with sugar, a little of the 
lemon peel, and a few drops of the juice. Repeat this until 
the dish is full, then cover it w^ell over with the peel of the 
apples to prevent it burning, and bake in a quick oven about 
three-quarters of an hour. When done, remove the peel, 
turn it out on a dish, sprinkle with white sugar, and serve 
at once. 

APPLE SOUFrLE PUDDING 

6 or 7 fine apples. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 cup fine breadcrumbs. Nutmeg and a little grated 

4 eggs. lemon peel. 
1 cup sugar. 

Pare, core, and slice the apples, and stew in a covered 
double saucepan, without a drop of water, until they are 
tender. Mash to a smooth pulp, and while hot, stir in the 
butter and sugar. Let it get quite cold, and whip in, first 
the yolks of the eggs, then the whites — beaten very stiff — 
alternately with the breadcrumbs. Flavor, beat quickly 
three minutes, until all the ingredients are reduced to a 
creamy batter, and bake in a buttered dish, in a moderate 
oven. It will take about an hour to cook it properly. Keep 
it covered until ten minutes before you take it out. This 
will retain the juices and prevent the formation of a crust 
on the top. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 211 

APPLE FRITTERS 

•J lb. flour. 2 eggs, whites and yolks 

1 oz. butter. beaten separately. 

■^ teaspoonful salt. ]\Iilk for thin batter. 

Prepare some apples, as for a pie, or mince them if pre- 
ferred ; add these to the batter, and drop a large tablespoon- 
f ul at a time into a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping ; 
fry till of a light brown, turning when required. When 
done, lay them on a sheet of blotting-paper before the fire to 
absorb the grease, then dish them, piled high, one above the 
other, and strewed with sifted sugar. They should be 
served as hot as possible. 

SWISS APPLE PUDDING 

!A.pples, breadcrumbs, moist sugar, butter. 

Prepare the apples as for a pie, and put a layer of them 
in a buttered dish; cover with breadcrumbs, and a little 
sugar, and a few small pieces of butter. Repeat this until 
the dish is full, and bake till well browned. When finished, 
turn it out of the dish and sprinkle with white sugar. 

GERMAN PUDDING 

1 cup stewed apples. 3 eggs. 

1 cup breadcrumbs. Juice of 1 lemon. 

1 cup milk. Some chopped peel. 

Butter size of egg. A few almonds, chopped. 

X tablespoonful sugar. 

Have apples, sweetened; add bread-crumbs soaked in 
milk; butter, sugar creamed with butter; three eggs, yolks 
and whites beaten separately; juice of one lemon and some 
of the peel chopped fine; a few almonds chopped fine and 
mixed well with butter. Steam. 



212 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

AGEA PUDDING 

'4 eggs. Bread-and-butter marmalade. 

1^ pts. milk. 1 pt. boiled custard. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. Vanilla to taste. 

Cut thin slices of bread-and-butter, and spread them with 
the marmalade. Fit them neatly into a buttered pie-dish 
until it is half full; then pour over them gradually a hot 
custard made of the milk heated almost to boiling, then 
taken off the fire, and the beaten eggs and sugar stirred in 
with the flavoring. Place a small plate on the top to pre- 
vent the bread from rising, and let it soak for half an hour. 
Grate a little nutmeg on the top, and bake, and when done 
turn it out of the dish, and pour over it a pint of boiled cus- 
tard. This pudding is very good, either hot or cold, espe- 
cially so if French bread can be used. 

A plainer pudding may be made by omitting two of the 
eggs and the boiled custard, but in that case it should be sent 
to table in the dish in which it is baked. Both are very good 
and may be commended to housekeepers who seek a simple, 
yet dainty dessert. 



ARROWROOT CHARLOTTE 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 3 or 4 stale sponge cakes. 

3 tablespoonfuls arrowroot, yanilla flavoring. 
1 qt. milk. 

Line a mould with the sponge cakes, cut thin, and sprinkle 
with sherry. Mix the flour and arrowroot with enough cold 
milk to make it smooth. Put the remainder of the milk into 
a saucepan and stir in the mixture just before it boils; boil 
a few minutes, stirring all the time, then pour it boiling into 
the mould. Stand it aside till quite cold, turn it out of the 
mould and spread it with jelly or jam. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 213 

AREOWROOT CREAMS 

1 oz. arrowroot. 1 qt. milk. 

3 oz. powdered sugar. A little lemon peel and einna- 

1 egg, yolk only. mon. 

Mix the arrowroot with a little of the milk to a smooth 
paste and add to it the egg. Boil the remainder of the milk 
with the sugar and flavoring, and pour it boiling hot on the 
arrowroot, keeping it well stirred till nearly cold, when it 
may be set aside in custard glasses. This makes a nice after- 
noon dish. 



AUSTRIAN PUDDING 

1 lb. flour. i lb. suet, chopped. 

A. pinch of salt. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 large teaspoonful baking- 1 breakfast cup of milk, 

powder. 1 breakfast cup of treacle. 

Mix the dry ingredients together, then warm the milk, stir 
it into the treacle, and add it to the pudding. Mix well and 
boil slowly but continuously in a well-buttered basin for 
three hours. 



BREAD FRITTERS 

1 pt. milk. i lb. flour. 

1 egg. Bread and jam. 

Make a batter with the milk, egg, and flour. Cut some 
slices of bread rather thin, in squares or three-cornered pieces, 
spread half of them with jam and cover with the other 
slices; dip them into the batter, and fry in boiling lard till 
of a light brown color. Serve very hot, piled on a dish, and 
sprinkled with white sugar. 



214 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

BKEAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING 

Four eggs well beaten, one ounce of lump sugar, one- 
quarter pound of currants, one quarter of a teaspoonful of 
salt. 

Butter a basin well, put in a sprinkle of currants all 
round, then a layer of bread-and-butter, and so on, until the 
basin or mould be nearly full, then add to the eggs a quart of 
milk with the sugar. Boil for an hour and a half gently. 

BETSY PUDDING 

One pint of milk, three ounces breadcrumbs, one egg, one 
tablespoonful of white sugar, jam. 

Spread a good layer of jam in the bottom of a pie-dish. 
Pour the milk nearly boiling on to the breadcrumbs; when 
cool stir in the egg, which should be beaten ; pour this gently 
on the preserve ; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake 
for half an hour. 

BACHELOR'S PUDDING 

One egg, with its weight in minced apple, flour, sugar, 
currants, breadcrumbs, suet. 

i\Iix these with the egg and add a little milk. Boil in a 
mould from one and a half to two hours. 



CARROT PUDDING 

i lb. grated breadcrumbs. ^ lb. sultanas. 

J lb. currants. 1 large tablespoonful treacle. 

I lb. suet. Grated rind of J lemon. 
i lb. flour. 

Mix well together with a little milk, and boil in a basin, 
or mould, for an hour and a half. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 215 

SPONGE PUDDING 

1 oz. butter. | pt. milk. 

1 oz. sugar. 3 eggs. 

1 oz. flour. 

Scald the milk, and put the butter, sugar, flour, and yolks 
of eggs into it. Beat the whites stiff and stir in. Bake in a 
pan set in another pan of water, for about half an hour. 
Sauce. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half 
cup boiling water, one-half cup wine and a little nutmeg. 

FRUIT PUDDING 

1 cup molasses. | cup currants. 

1 cup milk. 2| cups flour. 

1 cup suet, chopped. Baking powder, salt, spices to 

1 cup raisins. taste. 

Steam two hours in buttered mould. Serve with hard 
sauce (butter and sugar creamed together and hot water 
sparingly added to thin to desired consistency), flavored with 
vanilla or lemon. 

SUET PUDDING 

f lb. chopped suet (fine). 3 eggs (yolks of 3 and whites 
■| cup seeded raisins, of 2 well beaten). 

(chopped). 3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls moist A little nutmeg. 

sugar. A little salt. 

1 teaspoonful baking soda. 

Boil for four hours or steam in basin. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

Pint new milk, two eggs, five tablespoons flour, pinch of 
salt. Stir milk and flour to batter, put in salt, add well- 
beaten eggs. Have a shallow tin pan with lots of melted 



216 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

dripping boiling hot. Pour in batter, bake half an hour in 
hot oven. English cooks set the cooked pudding under the 
roast and allow it to catch some of the dripping just before 
serving. 

CHEAP PLUM PUDDING 

Two cups of flour, one teaspoon of baking-powder, one- 
half teaspoon of cinnamon, one-half cup of suet, one-half cup 
raisins, one €gg, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup of milk. 
Steam three hours. 



CARAMEL PUDDING CUSTARD 

6 eggs (yolks). 2 oz. castor sugar. 

2 oz. sugar. Enough water to moisten 
I pt. cream. sugar. 

Put sugar and water into a mould and cook until sugar 
is of a dark color ; allow it to run all over the mould ; dip in 
cold water to set it; then pour in your custard; put into a 
saucepan with boiling water half way up the mould ; cook 
about twenty minutes; cover mould with a buttered paper, 
and put cover on saucepan while the custard is steaming. 

SMOTHERED FIG PUDDING 

3 cups rich milk. 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 

1 cup sugar. Figs. 

2 eggs, well beaten. Vanilla flavoring. 
Butter size of egg. 

Make custard in double boiler. Place a layer of finely 
cut up figs, then a layer of custard, and so on till dish is 
full. Set away till cool. Put whipped cream on top and 
serve. Preserved ginger used instead of the figs is also good. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 217 

PRUNE PUDDING 

One pound prunes, stew and remove the pits; whites of 
four eggs beaten very stiff, and three tablespoons white 
sugar. Put sugar and whites of eggs together; add prunes. 
Bake one-half hour. Serve with cream. 

ADA FORD'S PUDDING 

1 cup melted butter. If teacupfuls flour. 

f cup sugar. 1^ teaspoonful baking powder. 

^ cup milk (large). 1 cup jam. 

2 eggs. 

Butter a mould, cover the bottom with jam, fill with 
batter, and steam one hour and a quarter. Serve with sauce. 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING 

1 lb. suet. 

1 lb. currants. 

1 lb. raisins, 

1 lb. sultanas. 

1 lb. moist sugar. 

I pt. milk. ^ lb. flour (browned). 

Mix well and boil five hours. 

GRAHAM FLOUR PUDDING 

Two cups graham flour, one cup sweet milk, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of currants or raisins, one teaspoonful 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of salt. Put in a shape and 
boil or steam for three hours. Serve with foam sauce. 

FOAM SAUCE 

Half cup butter, one cup white sugar, one egg, six table- 
spoonfuls of milk, one wineglass of brandy. Beat the butter 



1 


nutmeg. 




1 


lb. 


grated breadcrumbs, 


i 


lb. 


citron. 




1 

4 


lb. 


orange 


peel. 


i 


lb. 


lemon 


peel. 



218 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 



and sugar to a froth; add yolk of egg and milk. Set on a 
slow fire; add brandy and white of egg well beaten just 
before serving. 

PLAIN GINGEE PUDDING 



cup suet, 
cups flour, 
teaspoonful salt, 
large tablespoonfuls 

brown sugar, 
large tablespoonfuls mo- 
lasses. 



2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 

1 large teaspoonful ground 
ginger. 

A small grating of nutmeg. 

^ cup sweet milk. 

-J cup cold water. 



Line a melon mould with raisins, pour in the batter, and 
steam for two and one-half hours. 



''GLENEDYTH" CHRISTMAS PUDDING 



1^ lbs. breadcrumbs. 2 

^ lb. flour. 

2 lbs. chopped suet. 2 

2 lbs. raisins, chopped, 2 

2 lbs. currants. 2 

2 lbs. sugar. 

18 eggs. 2 

1 claret glass brandy. 2 

1 wine glass maraschino. 



oz. almonds, blanched and 

sliced. 

oz. candied peel. 

oz. citron. 

oz. preserved ginger finely 

chopped. 

small nutmegs. 

limes, juice and finely 

chopped rind. 

teaspoonful salt. 



Mix all to a stiff paste, moistening with a little milk if 
necessary, but be careful, for milk will make the pudding 
heavy. The eggs and milk should be stirred into the ingre- 
dients after they have been thoroughly mixed together, and 
last of all the brandy and liqueur. This pudding will take 
ten hours to boil, and is large enough for a party of sixteen. 

Sauce. — Put ten yolks of eggs in a stew-pan, four ounces 
of sugar, one pint of milk. Stir over the fire in a "bain 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 219 

marie" (double boiler) till a rich custard has been formed; 
add a claret glass of Noyeau; strain the sauce and serve hot. 
Instead of Noyeau three-quarters of a pint of Madeira may 
be used. 

SPONGE PUDDING 

1^ tablespoonfuls butter. 6 eggs, whites and yolks 

4 tablespoonfuls flour. beaten separately, 

5 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 1 pt. sweet milk. 

Boil the sugar, flour and one pint of sweet milk together, 
then take off the fire and stir in butter. "When cool add the 
eggs well beaten. Bake one hour in a pan of water. 

Sauce for above. — Half pint wine and water, one cup 
sugar, one-half cup butter, one teaspoon flour, one egg, flavor 
with nutmeg. 

BRENTWOOD PUDDING 

3 oz. breadcrumbs. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

3 oz. butter. Juice of 2 lemons and grated 

3 oz. sugar. rind of one. 

Line the dish with pastry, put a layer of jam at the bottom, 
over which pour the above mixture. Bake forty minutes. 
When it has been in the oven thirty minutes pour over it 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

MAY'S PUDDING 

1 qt. boiling water. 2 eggs, beaten separately. 

Juice of 1 lemon. 2 cups sugar. 

4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold water, add the lemon- 
juice. Have the water boiling on the fire ; put in the sugar 
and stir in the cornstarch. "Wlien it has well thickened add 
the whites of the eggs beaten very stiff. Stir well and pour 
into a mould. The yolks of the eggs can be used to make a 



220 PUDDINGS AKB SAUCES 

custard, with one pint of milk and one small tablespoonful 
of cornstarch ; sugar to taste. Serve cold. 

RAISIN PUFF 

2 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
^ cup butter. 1 cup raisins, chopped. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 1 teacupful milk, 
der sifted in 2 cups flour. 

Steam one hour in an ordinary brown bread steamer. 
Serve with whipped cream or cold sauce. 

BANANA PUDDING 

I box gelatine. 1 cupful walnuts, chopped 

6 small bananas. fine. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 1 pt. milk. 

1 small cupful preserved | pt. whipped cream, 
ginger, chopped. 

Soak the gelatine for fifteen minutes in a cupful of cold 
milk. Mash the bananas till smooth. Mix in the chopped 
ginger and walnuts, add the sugar. Pour the milk (boiling) 
on the gelatine, stir till dissolved, to which add the bananas, 
ginger, and walnuts. Set in a bowl in a can of crushed ice 
or cold water. Stir occasionally till the mixture begins to 
grow firm, then very gently fold in the whipped cream and 
pour into a mould which has been rubbed inside with sweet 
oil. When firm turn out and serve with whipped cream. 

CUSTARD PUDDING 

Take five ^.ablespoonfuls out of a quart of cream or rich 
milk, and mix them with two large spoonfuls of fine flour. 
Set the rest of the milk to boil, flavoring it with bitter almonds 
broken up. When it has boiled hard, take it off, strain it, 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 221 

and stir it in the cold milk and flour. Set it away to cool, 
and beat well eight yolks and four whites of eggs ; add them 
to the milk, and stir in, at the last, a glass of brandy or white 
mne, a teaspoonful of powdered nutmeg, and half a cupful 
of sugar. Butter a large bowl or mould; pour in the mix- 
ture ; tie a cloth tightly over it ; put it into a pot of boiling 
water, and boil it two hours, replenishing the pot with hot 
water from a tea-kettle. When the pudding is done, let it 
get cool before you turn it out. Eat it with butter and 
sugar stirred together to a cream and flavored with lemon- 
juice or orange-juice. 

RICE PUDDING 

1 teacupful rice. 1 teaspoonful of ground nut- 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. meg. 

5 tablespoonfuls sugar. Salt. 

1 qt. cream. ^ lb. raisins, cut in halves. 

1 glass wine. i lb. Zante currants. 

5 eggs. i lb. citron cut in strips. 

Wash rice, and boil it in two teacupf uls of water ; then add, 
while the rice is hot, butter, sugar, eggs well beaten, nutmeg, 
a little salt, one glass of wine, raisins, currants, citron, and 
cream; mix well, pour into buttered dish and bake an hour 
in a moderate oven. 

RHUBARB, OR PIE-PLANT PUDDING 

Chop rhubarb pretty fine, put in a pudding-dish, and 
sprinkle sugar over it ; make a batter of one cupful of sour 
milk, two eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, half a 
teaspoonful of soda, and enough flour to make batter about 
as thick as for cake. Spread it over the rhubarb, and bake 
till done. Turn out on a platter upside down, so that the 
rhubarb will be on top. Serve with sugar and cream. 



222 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

PRESERVE DUMPLINGS 

Preserved peaches, plums, quinces, cherries or any other 
sweetmeat; make a light crust, and roll a small piece of 
moderate thickness and fill with the fruit in quantity to 
make the size of a peach dumpling; tie each one in a 
dumpling cloth, well floured inside, drop them into hot 
water, and boil for half an hour; when done, remove the 
cloth, send to table hot, and eat with cream. 

FROZEN PUDDING 

1 large pt. milk. Brandy. 

^ cupful flour, scant. 1 qt. cream. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 1 lb. preserved fruit. 

2 eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls sherry wine. 

2 tablespoonfuls gelatine. 

Soak gelatine in water two hours. Soak fruit in brandy. 
Cook milk, flour, eggs, gelatine and one cupful of sugar. 
When cool add cream, wine, and the other cup of sugar, and 
freeze, then add fruit, and pack in bricks. 



PUDDINGS A^^D SAUCES 223 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



224 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

WEITTEN EECIPES 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 225 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



226 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

WEITTEN RECIPES 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

The usual rule for custards is, eight eggs to a quart of 
milk; but a very good custard can be made of six, or even 
less, especially with the addition of a level tablespoonful of 
sifted flour, thoroughly blended in the sugar first, before 
adding the other ingredients. They may be baked, boiled 
or steamed, either in cups or one large dish. It improves 
custards to first boil the milk and then cool it before being 
used ; also a little salt adds to the flavor. A very small lump 
of butter may also be added, if one wants something espe- 
cially rich. 

To make custards look and taste better, ducks ' eggs should 
be used when obtainable; they add very much to the flavor 
and richness, and so many are not required as of ordinary 
eggs, four ducks' eggs to a pint of milk making a delicious 
custard. When desired extremely rich and good, cream 
should be substituted for the milk, and double the quantity 
of eggs used to those mentioned, omitting the whites. 

When making boiled custard, set the dish containing the 
custard into anothe!- and larger dish, partly filled with boil- 
{•ng water, placed o"ver the fire. Let the cream or milk come 
vilmost to a boil bef<; re adding the eggs or thickening, then 
stir it briskly one way every moment until smooth and well 
cooked ; it must not boil or it will curdle. 

To bake a custard, the fire should be moderate, and the 
dish well buttered. 

Everything in baked custard depends upon the regularly 
heated slow oven. If made with nicety, it is the most deli- 
cate of all sweets ; if cooked till it wheys, it is hardly eatable. 

Frozen eggs can be made quite as good as fresh ones if 

227 



228 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS A'NB CREAMS 

used as soon as thawed soft. Drop them into boiling water, 
letting them remain until the water is cold. They will be 
soft all through and beat up equal to those that have not 
been touched with the frost. 

Eggs should always be thoroughly well beaten, separately, 
the yolks first, then the sugar added; beat again, then add 
the beaten whites with the flavoring, then the cooled scalded 
milk. The lighter the eggs are beaten, the thicker and 
richer the custard. 

Eggs should always be broken into a cup, the whites and 
yolks separated, and they should always be strained. Break- 
ing the eggs thus, the bad ones may be easily rejected without 
spoiling the others, and so cause no waste. 

A meringue, or frosting for the top, requires about a 
tablespoonful of fine sugar to the beaten white of one egg; 
to be placed on the top after the custard or pudding is 
baked; smoothed over with a broad-bladed knife dipped in 
cold water, and replaced in the oven to brown slightly. 



SOFT CARAMEL CUSTARD 

One quart of milk, half a cupful of sugar, six eggs, half 
a teaspoonful of salt. Put the milk on to boil, reserving a 
cupful. Beat the eggs and add the cold milk to them. Stir 
the sugar in a small frying-pan until it becomes liquid and 
just begins to smoke. Stir it into the boiling milk ; then add 
the beaten eggs and cold milk, and stir constantly until the 
mixture begins to thicken. Set away to cool. Serve in 
glasses. 

RASPBERRY CREAM 

One-quarter pound white sugar, one-quarter pound rasp- 
berry jam, and the whites of four eggs beaten together for 
an hour. 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAIt-IS 229 

A DAINTY DESSERT 

Line a glass bowl with slices of sponge cake or ladies' 
fingers, fill the bowl with sliced bananas; squeeze the juice 
and pulp from a quart of blackberries, sweeten it well, then 
pour it over the bananas; stand on ice until ice-cold, then 
cover with a deep layer of whipped cream and serve. 

PRUNE SHAPE 

One and one-half pounds of best prunes (or figs), stew 
with a little sugar till quite tender. Strain the liquid from 
them and take out the stones; one six-ounce packet of gela- 
tine, dissolved in one pint of cold water. Then add a small 
half pint of boiling water mixed with juice of prunes; add 
one cup sugar and a few drops of ratafia. Place the prunes 
round the mould and pour liquid over. Let it stand till 
quite cold. Blanched almonds are an improvement. 

AMBROSIA 

One pineapple chopped quite fine, one-half box straw- 
berries, six bananas sliced and the slices quartered, six 
oranges sliced and the slices quartered; one lemon cut fine; 
sweeten to taste. Add one wineglassful sherry and set aAvay 
until cold. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Two pounds almonds, three tablespoonfuls best olive oil, 
one tablespoonful fine salt. Blanch almonds, pour oil over 
them, adding salt. Let them stand for an hour or two, stir- 
ring frequently. Then place in a pan large enough for the 
almonds to rest on the surface, not being crowded one on 
another. Place in an oven sufficiently slow to allow twenty 
minutes for the nuts to brown nicely, and shake the pan fre- 
quently that they may color evenly. 



230 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

PEACH MELBA 

1 pt. milk. Peaches or pearg. 

Yolks of 5 eggs. Kaspberry syrup. 

Vanilla flavoring. 

Make the custard with milk and eggs, vanilla essence to 
taste; make this custard into an ice. AVhen ready for the 
melba, take the ice out of the freezing machine and place 
in rather a deep dish ; then put peaches or pears on the top 
of the ice, then pour raspberry syrup over the whole and 
serve. To make the raspberry syrup, take a small jar of 
raspberry jam and pass through a fine sieve. Then take a 
very small bottle of raspberry syrup and well mix with the 
jam as the syrup alone is not thick enough. We always use 
raspberry and red currant mixed, which can be obtained 
at the grocers, also tinned peaches and pears would do 
nicely. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

1 pt. stewed apples. -5 box gelatine. 

1 cup sugar. 3 eggs (whites). 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon. 

Mix apples with one cup sugar ; the grated rind and juice 
of lemon. Soak gelatine in one-third of a cup of cold water 
twenty minutes ; add one-third of a cup of boiling water to 
dissolve the gelatine ; when cool add it to the apples. When 
beginning to stiffen, add the beaten whites of three eggs; 
pour into moulds lined with lady fingers. Serve with soft 
custard poured round the base of the charlotte. 

POACHED APRICOTS 

Upon some slices of sponge cake place halves of apricots 
(the round sides uppermost), and whip the whites of two or 
three eggs to a snow frost with sugar. Place this around 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AXD CREAMS 231 

the apricot halves so as to make them resemble poached eggs. 
Whipped cream, if obtainable, is even better than the 
meringue. A little of the apricot juice should be added as 
flavoring. 

STRAWBERRY MOULD 
Line a mould with nicely flavored lemon jelly. Then put 
in a layer of strawberries, freed from their stalks and cut 
in halves. Setting this layer with a little more jelly, have a 
smaller mould the same shape as the first ; stand it in the 
centre of the larger mould (failing a mould use a small, 
round tin or jam pot), and fill up the outer circumference 
with alternate layers of the strawberries and lemon jelly. 
Place the mould on ice to set, and meanwhile whip half a 
pint of cream to a stiff froth, adding about one-quarter of 
an ounce of best leaf gelatine, dissolved in a very little water 
or milk, and very gradually add to this a cupful of straw- 
berry pulp (obtained by mashing fruit through sieve), sweet- 
ened to taste. When the jelly is set, remove the inner mould 
by pouring a little warm water into it and lifting out as 
quickly as possible. Then fill up the space thus left with 
the whipped cream and strawberry pulp, and put the mould 
back on the ice for an hour or two, when it can be turned out 
and served with cream. 

CRANBERRY JEILY 

To one quart of cranberries add one scant cupful of water, 
and cook until the berries are tender. Remove from the fire 
and strain through a fine sieve. Return the juice to the 
saucepan, add two cupfuls of sugar, and cook just long 
enough to thoroughly melt the sugar. When cool, put in a 
mould and pack in ice for an hour, and serve in sherbet 
glasses. 

STIFF CRAiTBERRY JELLY 

To each pound of berries add one pint of water, and boil 
half an hour, stirring gently and skimming. Strain well, 



232 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

and to each pint of juice add one pound of sugar (granu- 
lated). Boil again until it jellies. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM 

6 oz. chocolate, grated. 6 oz. sugar. 

1 pt. cream. Yolks of 6 eggs. 

2 oz. gelatine. 

Grate finely six ounces chocolate; put chocolate 
into a saucepan with cream, sugar, and yolks of eggs. Stir 
over fire until it thickens, run through sieve; add dissolved 
gelatine. Mix and fill mould and place on ice. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

One pint cream, one-quarter cup sugar, whites of two eggs, 
one teaspoonful granulated gelatine. Dissolve gelatine in as 
little boiling water as possible, whip cream and beat eggs 
very light ; add all together and pour into mould lined with 
lady fingers. 

ITALIAN CREAM 

For two moulds: Three cups of cream and one cup of 
milk whipped stiff; one box of gelatine sweetened to taste. 
Put the sugar with the gelatine when it is hot. Flavor with 
vanilla ; stir till it thickens, then mould. 

APPLE PORCUPINE 

Pare and core the apples. Make a syrup by boiling sugar 
and water in equal proportions. As soon as the fruit is 
pared, before it is discolored by standing, immerse it in the 
syrup and cook until it is easily pierced with a straw. Then 
draw the apples from the liquid and ornament the sides of 
each by piercing them with blanched almonds. Fill the cavi- 
ties with jelly, preserved fruit or marmalade and serve hot 
or cold with cream. With the remaining sj^rup and the skins 
and cores, apple jelly may be made. 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 233 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

4 eggs, f oz. gelatine. 

^ pt. milk. 3 oz. sugar. 

^ pt. double cream 

Take the pineapple and trim well, cut in half, cut one-half 
in dice, the other half pound in a mortar and pass through 
a hair sieve. Whip the cream, add the juice of pine, also the 
dice of pine ; dissolve the gelatine in a gill of the pineapple 
syrup, add sugar; when cold add cream, and pour it into a 
decorated mould and set on ice. 

GATEAUX AUX PRUNES 

1 lb. prunes. 1 glass brandy. 

3 oz. sugar. 1 pt. water. 

f oz. gelatine. A few drops cochineal. 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon. 

Boil the prunes in the water and sugar until quite soft* 
then take them out and take the stones out, crack the kernels, 
add them with the brandy, lemon juice and peel, a little 
cochineal and the gelatine dissolved in a little water. Boil 
all for twenty minutes. Pour into a border mould. When 
set, turn out, and serve with whipped cream in the centre. 

CREME A LA DUCHESSE 

A very rich custard, stiffened with one ounce gelatine and 
flavored with two ounces of powdered baked almonds and a 
gill of whipped cream. Stir into this some crystallized apri- 
cots and ginger cut up small ; pour the mixture into a mould 
and pack in ice. Prepare some syrup, flavored with wine 
colored with a little carmine; set in the ice till cold, when 
turned out. 



234 DESSEKTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

SHEREY FLIP 

1 pt. cream. Juice of 2 lemons. 

2 doz. almonds. Sugar to taste. 

3 glasses sherry. 

Blanch and chop the almonds and put them into a jug 
"vvith the cream. In another jug put the sherry, lemon- juice 
and enough sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Pour rapidly 
from one jug to the other till the mixture is well frothed; 
then pour it into individual glasses. This is sufficient to fill 
twelve ordinary custard glasses. 

CHOCOLATE CEJEAM 

I lb. chocolate. 4 eggs. 

1 pt. milk. 4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Melt chocolate. Heat one pint milk; add yolks of eggs, 
and sugar ; stir until creamy ; add the chocolate. It must not 
boil. Strong coffee, vanilla, may be used in the same way, 
as flavoring to the cream. 

APPLES A LA PRINCESS MAUDE 

Peel one and a half pounds of good cooking apples, cut 
them up and cook them in three-quarters of a pint of water 
with four to six ounces of loaf sugar, according to the sweet- 
ness of the apples, and bay-leaves, and the finely cut peel of 
one lemon. When the apples are perfectly soft, dissolve 
with them three-quarters of an ounce of leaf gelatine and 
pass the whole through a sieve; divide the puree into two 
parts, and redden one of them with liquid carmine, and 
whiten the other with a little thick cream, and put them in 
separate sauce pans to about a quarter of an inch thick, and 
let them set. Put the pans on broken ice if you have any. 
When the puree is set cut out in rounds with a plain cutter 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAJVIS 235 

about the size of a shilling for ornamenting round the mould, 
and in leaf shapes for the bottom and in the centre of each 
of the rounds set a little round of angelica with a little liquid 
jelly. Line a plain round mould with lemon jelly to about 
one-eighth of an inch thick ; set the cut leaves of apple puree 
regularly on the bottom of the mould with the stock ends at 
the centre and the rounds regularly round the sides in alter- 
nate colors; fix these in their places with a little more of 
the lemon jelly and fill up the centre with the following 
cream, viz. : Separately dissolve the odds and ends of the 
cuttings of the puree with two tablespoonfuls of lemon jelly, 
and let them stand till somewhat cool ; then add to each a 
quarter of a pint of thickly whipped cream and pour them 
into the mould in alternate layers and put to set on broken 
ice ; when required turn out on a dish ; place on the top a ball 
of stiffly whipped cream sweetened and flavored with vanilla 
essence, and lightly sprinkle with a little chopped pistachio 
nuts. 

BANANAS 

Slice and pour over them a little white wine, leave them to 
soak for two hours. Cover with custard made as for choco- 
late cream, without flavoring. 

FRIED BANANAS 

Strip off the skins; cut each banana into three slices, and 
flour well. Saute in hot butter in a frying-pan, or fry in 
deep fat. Drain dry and serve hot. Or, roll in egg, then 
in cracker dust ; set on ice for one hour and fry in hot, deep 
cottolene. 

BANANA CROaUETTES 

For this purpose select small, yellow bananas; strip off 
the skins and cut off the ends, so as to make them look like 
croquettes; pepper and salt, roll in egg, then in cracker- 



236 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

crumbs, set on the ice for one hour to stiffen them, and fry 
in hot, deep cottolene to a golden brown. Serve dry and 
hot. They should accompany chicken or lamb, being a deli- 
cate yet piquante vegetable, and unfit to attend roast beef or 
other heavy meats. 

SPANISH CREAM 

1 pt. new milk, 4 eggs (whites and yolks 

1 box gelatine, beaten separately). 

^ lb. white sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla and a 

little almond extract. 

Soak gelatine in a little water till very soft. Boil the 
milk, stir in gelatine, then sugar, then the well-beaten yolks ; 
stir well, and let the mixture thicken ; put in flavoring and 
boil till the mixture separates, then take from the fire, beat 
in the whites (previously beaten stiff) ; stir lightly together 
and pour into a mould. This quantity is sufficient for one 
quart. 

MAPLE PAEFAIT 

Beat the yolks of ten eggs very light, and add a large cup- 
ful of maple syrup. Put it over the fire, stir till it thickens, 
then take off and beat till cold. Add quickly a quart of 
cream beaten till it is perfectly stiff, and pour into a two- 
quart melon mould. Pack in ice and salt for five or six 
hours. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET 

One pint of berries, one pint of granulated sugar, one pint 
of water, juice of two lemons, one tablespoonful of gelatine. 
Dissolve the gelatine in the water; add berries and sugar, 
and last of all the lemon juice. Stir lightly and freeze. 

LEMON SHERBET 

One quart of fresh milk, three cups of sugar, three lemons. 
Grate a very little of the rind of one of the lemons, add the 



, DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 237 

strained juice of all the lemons and the sugar to the miljk 
and freeze at once. 

CRANBERRY FRAPPE 

One quart of cranberries, one quart of water, boiled five or 
six minutes, strain through a coarse cheese cloth, add one 
pint of sugar and stir and boil until sugar is dissolved ; when 
cold add juice of two lemons strained. Freeze to a mush, 
using equal parts of ice and salt. Serve in glass cups. To 
be eaten with turkey. 

MUSCAT SHERBET 

1 cup sugar. 2 eggs (whites). 

1 tablespoonful gelatine. 2 tablespoonfuls powdered 

Juice of 4 lemons. sugar. 

Grated rind 1 lemon. Green coloring. 

1 cup sherry. 

Dissolve one cupful of sugar in one pint of boiling water, 
take from the fire and add gelatine which has been soaked 
until soft in half a cupful of water ; add the juice of lemons 
and the grated rind ; let stand for half an hour, then strain. 
Add sherry and three cupfuls of cold water and color green, 
remembering that freezing lessens all colors, and it is to be a 
pretty pale green when served. Turn into the freezer, when 
half frozen, add meringue made by beating together the 
whites of eggs and powdered sugar until stiff and glassy. 
Finish the freezing, pack and set away until serving time. 

CAFE MOUSSE 

Mix well together one pint of thick cream, three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla and 
one-third of a cup of very strong coffee, chill thoroughly, 
then whip, setting the bowl in a pan of ice water. Take off 



238 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

the froth as it rises and lay on a sieve. When no more froth 
will rise turn the drowned whip carefully into a mould, cover 
lightly, binding the edges with a strip of muslin dipped in 
melted butter ; bury in ice and salt as for freezing, let stand 
for two or three hours ; wipe off the mould and turn out on a 
serving dish. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 pt. cream, whipped stiff. Whites of 2 eggs. 

^ oz. gelatine. 1 teacupful powdered sugar. 

I pt. milk. Flavor to taste. 

Dissolve gelatine in one-quarter pint of hot milk. Fasten 
lady fingers with icing, mix cream, whites of eggs and sugar 
together, add gelatine last, a little at a time. Beat quickly 
with a spoon. 

TRIFLE 

4 tablespoonfuls sherry wine. 1 doz. lady fingers. 
4 tablespoonfuls brandy. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Strawberry or raspberry jam. ^ teacup seeded raisins. 
1 qt. cream. ^ cupful chopped, blanched, 

^ lb. macaroons. almonds. 

Any kind of stale cake sponge or pound cake preferred. 
In a dish put first a layer of cake, then a little brandy, then 
jam, then cake, wine, raisins and nuts, also a little cream 
whipped; begin again as before, then add a few macaroons 
and make a wall of lady fingers. After all the cake, wine 
and raisins are used, over the top put plenty of whipped 
cream (stiff). This recipe makes enough trifle for about 
twenty people. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

Whip one pint of cream to a stiff froth, add a large cup of 
sugar, one-half box gelatine soaked in a cup of milk for one 
hour; a tiny pinch of salt is an improvement. Scrape one 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREMIS 239 

pineapple with a silver fork until it is in fine shreds, and 
add it to the cream (or one can of pineapple). Set mould on 
ice to stiffen. 

ICE CEEAM 

1 qt. milk. 2 cups sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. Vanilla flavoring to taste. 

Put milk on to boil, dissolve cornstarch in two tablespoons 
of cold milk, stir into boiling milk ; cook five minutes, strain, 
add sugar, flavor to taste. When perfectly cold, freeze. An 
excellent recipe that never fails, 

LEMON WATEE ICE, OE OEANGE 

Four large juicy lemons, one quart water, one orange, one 
and one-quarter pounds sugar. Put sugar and water on to 
boil; chip yellow rind from three lemons and the orange, 
add to the syrup ; boil five minutes and stand to cool ; squeeze 
juice from lemons and orange ; add to cold syrup, strain and 
freeze. Just before removing dash, add white of one egg 
beaten very stiff with one tablespoon sugar, to make white 
and frothy. Have used this a dozen times. 

CIJSTAED SOUFELE 

2 scant tablespoonfuls butter. 4 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 cup milk. 

Eub butter to a cream, add flour, and pour on gradually 
one cup of hot milk. Cook eight minutes in double boiler, 
stirring often. Separate yolks and whites of eggs, and put 
whites on ice. Beat yolks, add sugar, and add to the milk, 
and set away to cool. Half an hour before serving beat the 
whites stiff, and cut them in lightly. Bake in buttered pud- 
ding dish in moderate oven thirty minutes, and serve at once 
with creamy sauce. 



240 DESSEKTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

One-half cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls water, one quart 
milk, six eggs, one-half teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful 
vanilla. Put sugar in pan, and stir until it melts and is 
light brown; add the water, and stir into the warm milk. 
Beat eggs lightly, add salt and vanilla and part of the milk. 
Strain into the remainder of the milk, and pour into a but- 
tered two-quart mould. Set the mould in a pan of warm 
water, and bake from thirty to forty minutes, or till firm. 
Serve with cream and fruit sugar. 



STONE CREAM 

Put some preserve, strawberry, raspberry or peach, into a 
glass dish with three large tablespoonfuls of lemon juice on 
the top, then boil a pint of cream with three-quarters of an 
ounce of isinglass dissolved in a very little warm milk ; add 
wine and loaf sugar; when new milk warm, keep moving it 
round on the sweetmeats on the dish ; it is best made the day 
before it is wanted. When quite cold cut some blanched 
almonds lengthwise and stick them all over it. 



LEMON TRIFLE 

2 lemons (juice). 1 pt. cream sweetened and 
Grated rind of 1 lemon. whipped stiff. 

1 cupful sherry. A little nutmeg. 
1 large cup of sugar. 

Strain the lemon juice over the sugar and grated peel, and 
let them lie together two hours before adding the wine and 
nutmeg. Strain again and whip gradually into the frothed 
cream. Serve in jelly glasses. It should be eaten soon after 
it is made. 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 241 

FIG TRIFLE 

6 figs. 1 glass liquor. 

3 oz. shelled walnuts. 1 dessertspoonful sugar. 

i pt. cream. 

Cut the figs with a sharp knife into fine dice, chop the 
walnuts coarsely, whip the cream, sweeten with sugar to 
taste, then lightly stir in the figs and walnuts; flavor with 
the liqueur and serve in custard glasses. 

LEMON WATEE ICE 

One quart of water boiled with pared rind of two lemons 
(avoiding white part), two and one-half cups sugar or more 
(very sweet), one tablespoon (not heaping) of cornstarch, 
juice of five lemons. Strain and freeze; should stand one 
hour before using. 

APPLE SNOW 

Pare, core and slice six or eight tart, juicy apples; stew 
them in a little water until soft enough to press through a 
colander ; sweeten to suit the taste and turn into a deep glass 
dish ; let the apples get cold and then cover with a soft cus- 
tard made with a pint of milk, the yolks of three eggs and 
sugar to sweeten. Flavor with lemon or orange, and when 
cold pour over the apples. Whip the whites to a stiff froth 
with three heaping tablespoons of powdered sugar and heap 
lightly over the custard. 

MAPLE MOUND 

One cup of maple syrup, one pint of cream, yolks of four 
eggs. Boil syrup five minutes; remove from stove and add 
beaten yolks of eggs ; when cold stir in cream, which has been 
whipped. Pour into mould and pack in ice and salt for 
three hours. 



242 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

TEIFLE 

Sponge cake, soaked in sherry wine; chopped figs and a 
pint of almond custard, large cup of strawberry jam, one 
pint of cream, whipped, for top. 

GINGER CREAM 
Cut four ounces of prepared ginger in dice; put one 
ounce of gelatine into a saucepan with a pint of milk and 
four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Let it boil slowly, stirring all 
the time till the gelatine is dissolved, then add ginger. 
"When cool add one pint of whipped cream. Pour in damp- 
ened mould to form. 

PIiraAPPLE CREAM 
One can of pineapple (grated), three ounces of loaf sugar, 
half a pint of water, three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, 
one and a half pints of cream. Drain syrup from pineapple 
and put in half a pint of water and sugar in sauce-pan. 
When dissolved add fruit, boiling ten minutes, then add 
gelatine and boil ten minutes longer. When entirely cold 
add the cream, well whipped, and pour in moulds. 

RUSSIAN CREAM 
1 box gelatine. | cups sugar. 

1 qt. milk. 4 eggs. 

Soak gelatine in cup of milk, add to rest of milk, heated. 
Add yolks of eggs and sugar. Cook until smooth. Eemove 
from stove and add whites of eggs. Pour in mould to cool. 

SAUCE 

Three eggs, three ounces sugar, half pint of whipped cream 

measured after being whipped, half glass of chartreuse ; whip 

eggs and sugar over boiling water for ten minutes; then 

remove and whip until cold, then add cream and chartreuse. 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 243 

SOUFFLE 

2 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

2| oz. flour, 2 oz. chocolate. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 1 gill cream. 

Melt butter and flour, then add cream ; cook two minutes ; 
add chocolate and stir till melted. Remove from fire and let 
cool, then add yolks and, just before steaming, add whites 
stiffly beaten ; fold them in gently ; steam one hour and a 
half. Steam in mould placed in saucepan of hot water; 
let water come half way up mould ; put mould in bottom of 
saucepan and cover with a greased paper, and then cover 
saucepan. Do not let water boil. 

LEMON SHERBET 

Six lemons, four eggs (the whites), two pints sugar. 
Make a thick syrup of one pint sugar and about one pint 
water; when cold, thin with the juice of six lemons, and 
water enough to make it a rich lemonade. When it is half 
frozen add boiled icing, made as follows: One pint sugar 
moistened with water, and boiled until it is a soft candy; 
whilst hot add the stiff beaten whites of four eggs. Flavor 
with vanilla and a little citric acid or cream tartar, and beat 
hard until thick and smooth, and add to the half frozen 
lemonade. 

WINE JELLY 

1 box gelatine. 2 eggs. 

1 pt. cold water. 1 pt. hot water. 

1 cup sugar. ^ cup wine. 

2 lemons. Wine glass whisky. 

Soak gelatine for several hours in pint of cold water, grate 
the rinds of lemons, add with the juice of the lemons the 



244 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

whites and shells of two eggs, hot water (not boiling), wine, 
whisky, some cinnamon and sugar and let all boil ; skim and 
strain through flannel bag, add large cup sugar and remain- 
der of wine and put in mould to cool. 





LEMON JELLY 


1 box gelatine. 


1 pt. sugar. 


1 pt. hot water. 


2 lemons, juice and rind, 


I pt. wine. 


Whites 3 eggs. 



Soak gelatine for one hour in a pint of cold water, then 
add hot water, wine, sugar, lemons, juice and thinly pared 
rind. Boil for one-half a minute and strain. This with 
wine left out. AVhites of three eggs (beaten to a stiff froth 
and stirred in before quite cold), and put in mould. 

FRUIT JELLY 

1 box gelatine. 1^ pts. boiling water. 

1 cup sugar. Fruits: 

2 lemons. Peaches, bananas, oranges, 
•| pt. cold water. sliced. 

Dissolve gelatine in one-half pint cold water, add sugar and 
lemon juice, with boiling water. Let this stand until the 
jelly begins to thicken, then pour a little into the mould: 
place on it a layer of peaches, cut any shape desired. Put in 
more jelly and fruit, alternately until the mould is filled. 
Place on ice to set and serve with whipped cream. Care 
should be taken to allow each layer of fruit and jelly to set 
before putting in another, so that the fruit will not fall to- 
gether. 

PRUNE JELLY 

One pint of prunes, half a box of gelatine, sugar to taste, 
and a pinch of salt. "Wash the prunes, then boil slowly till 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 245 

soft in sufficient water to cover. Take out the stones, sweeten 
to taste ; add essence of vanilla, or if preferred the juice and 
rind of a lemon, and the juice of two oranges. Soak the 
gelatine till soft, then add the above, stir all well together, 
and pour into a mould and let stand till it is very cold. 

PRUNE JELLY 

1 lb. prunes. 1 orange. 

1 lb. sugar. 1 lemon. 

1 oz. gelatine. Whipped cream. 

One pound of prunes, well washed, then covered with 
water and allowed to soak for six hours. Put on to boil in 
same water until tender; add sugar, and boil ten minutest- 
strain and remove stones. Take gelatine soaked in one cup 
of water. Put on stove juice from prunes equal to two and 
a half cupfuls ; add juice of lemon and orange. When this 
commences to boil add gelatine and prunes. Turn into 
mould and serve when cold with whipped cream. 

PRUNE JELLY 

One pound of stewing prunes, wash well and leave them to 
soak about an hour. In the meantime put half a package of 
gelatine to soak, then take the prunes and put them on a 
saucepan on the fire, well covered with water and about half 
a cupful of sugar. Boil for about an hour. Strain the juice 
from the prunes, then add the gelatine to the juice and put 
on the fire to boil up. Cover the prunes with the juice and 
gelatine mixed, put in hot in a mould and leave till cold. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

APPLE SPONGE 

1 lb, apples. Juice of 2 lemons. 

^ oz. gelatine. Rind of 1 lemon, 

1 lb. sugar. ^ pt. boiling water. 



246 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

Boil the water and sugar iu a saucepan until dissolved. 
Peel and slice the apples thinly, and add to the syrup, and 
stew until tender. Add gelatine, and strain all through a 
sieve; add lemon juice and rind and beat until cool. Beat 
the whites of three eggs stiffly and add to the mixture, and 
beat all until cold. Put into a mould; serve with custard, 

COMPOTE OF CHESTNUTS (FRANCATEILI) 

50 chestnuts. 3 oranges. 

1 qt. milk and water. ^ pt. cream. 

12 oz. sugar. Maraschino. 

Oranges quartered and soaked in maraschino, "Whipped 
cream. Remove husks and skin from the chestnuts, and boil 
gently in the milk and water until like floury potatoes, and 
strain them. Boil the sugar until it purls on the surface 
and flavor with vanilla bean ; add the chestnuts and work all 
together vigorously, and rub through a potato masher on 
to a dish. Pile up whipped cream in the centre of a dish, 
and gently strew the chestnuts on top of the cream in a 
conical form; garnish with orange quarters at the base of 
the cream and nuts, 

PRINCE OF WALES DESSERT 

Take sponge cakes, stale preferred ; dip in sherry or syrup 
and line a mould with them. Take three-quarters pound 
cornflour, one ounce arrowroot, and mix together; add one 
pint boiling milk and cook a few minutes; add one tea- 
spoon vanilla and pour this into the lined basin, "When cold 
turn out. Put a large spoonful of red currant jelly on the 
top, and sprinkle well with chopped pistachio nuts. This 
may be varied by putting the cakes soaked in raspberry juice 
or wine in a glass dish; fill as above over the top of this. 
"When cold spread whipped cream; decorate with cherries 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 247 

and chopped citron peel. Serve very cold and in the glass 
dish in which it was made. The latter looks very pretty 
when complete. 

CARAMEL CUSTAKD 

One quart milk, 3'oU<s two eggs, one cup white sugar, two 
tablespoons cornstarch, one-half large cup of caramel. Stir 
all together carefully, cooking in a double boiler. Serve 
cold, with whipped cream. 

To make the caramel. — Two cups white sugar, one-half 
cup water. Put on a hot fire in a frying-pan, and stir con- 
stantly until it burns a dark brown color and becomes liquid. 
Remove from the fire and add one-half large cup of boiling 
water. Set away when cool in a jar for use. ^Vill keep for 
weeks. 

PLUM SHAPE 

Pour boiling water over a quart of plums, let them stand 
long enough to soften the skins, but not to break them open ; 
pour off the water and when cool peel and remove the stones, 
taking care to save all the juice. Soak half a box of gelatine 
in a cup of cold water. Stew the plums until tender after 
adding a cup of water ; sweeten to taste ; then stir the whole 
while hot into the gelatine. Serve with whipped cream. 
Lemon juice or Avine may be used with the water, if liked. 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM 

One quart of cream, one small cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of vanilla. Mix sugar and flavoring with cream. 
"When the sugar is dissolved strain into the freezer. 

SPANISH CREAM 

1 box gelatine. 3 eggs, beaten separately. 

1| pts. milk. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



248 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

Dissolve gelatine on top of kettle, boil milk ; add gelatine, 
stirring it in quickly, then add yolks of eggs, beaten with 
sugar. When well scalded take off the fire and stir the 
whites in, well beaten; flavor to taste and put into mould. 

BURNT CREAM 

1 qt. milk. 1 lb. brown sugar. 

4 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. | pt. cream, whipped. 
A few walnut meats. 

Boil milk, stir in cornstarch, add a few broken walnuts. 
Put in a saucepan one pound of brown sugar, let it brown 
as dark as possible, then add the milk ; after the milk is thick 
beat well together and turn into a mould. Decorate with 
half walnuts around, or solitaire moulds with a half walnut 
on top, whipped cream around dish. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE 

I lb. breadcrumbs. i lb. brown sugar. 

1 lb. apples. 1 grated rind of lemon, 

2 oz. suet, chopped. 

Butter a pie dish and sprinkle it with sugar. Mix suet 
and bread-crumbs together, put a layer of apple in small 
pieces, sugar and rind of lemon, then suet and crumbs; re- 
peat until dish is full. Bake thirty or forty minutes. Turn 
out. 

GIN&ER CREAM 

Make a custard of a gill of milk, one ounce of sugar, the 
beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir in a double boiler until 
thick, let it cool, then add one gill of the syrup from the jar 
of preserved ginger, and two ounces of the ginger cut up; 
add three-quarters ounce, full weight, of gelatine melted in 
as little water as possible. Last of all add one-half pint of 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 249 

whipped cream. Mix gently until well blended, pour into a 
mould and set on ice. 

RICH CHOCOLATE TORTE (GERMAN) 

I lb. chocolate. Yolks of 7 eggs. 

^ lb. pounded almonds. Bread or cracker crumbs. 

^ lb. sugar. 

Beat yolks very light with sugar, add chocolate, melted, 
almonds pounded, and last the whites of eggs beaten very 
stiff. Butter a flat shallow pan with unsalted butter, and sift 
in finely rolled cracker or bread crumbs. Pour in the mix- 
ture and cook half an hour in a moderate oven. Must be cut 
while hot into cubes. Will keep well for weeks. 



250 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

W2ITTEN RECIPES 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 251 

WRITTEN EECIPES 



252 DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



DESSERTS, CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 253 

WKITTEN RECIPES 



PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 

Use the very best materials in making pastry ; the shorten- 
ing should be fresh, sweet, and hard; the water cold (ice 
water is best), the paste rolled on a cold board, and all 
handled as little as possible. 

When the crust is made, it makes it much more flaky and 
puff much more to put it in a dish covered with a cloth, and 
set in a very cold place for half an hour, or even an hour ; in 
summer, it could be placed in the ice box. 

A great improvement is made in pie-crust by the addition 
of about a heaping teaspoonful of baking-powder to a quart 
of flour, also brushing the paste as often as rolled out, and 
the pieces of butter placed thereon, with the white of an 
egg, assist it to rise in leaves or flakes. As this is the great 
beauty of puff-paste, it is as well for housekeepers to try 
this method. 

If currants are to be used in ^ies, they should be carefully 
picked over, and washed in several waters, dried in a towel, 
and dredged with flour before they are suitable for use. 

Kaisins, and all dried fruits for pies and cakes, should be 
seeded, stoned, and dredged wath flour, before using in 
cooking. 

Almonds should be blanched by pouring boiling water 
upon them, and then slipping the skin off with the fingers. 
In pounding them, always add a little rose or orange water, 
with fine sugar, to prevent their becoming oily. 

Great care is requisite in heating an oven for baking pas- 
try. If you can hold your hand in the heated oven while you 
count twenty, the oven has just the proper temperature, and 

254 



PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 255 

it should be kept at this temperature as long as the pastry- 
is in ; this heat will bake to a light brown, and will give the 
pastry a fresh and flaky appearance. If you suffer the heat 
to abate, the under crust will become heavy and clammy, and 
the upper crust will fall in. 

Another good way to ascertain when the oven is heated 
to the proper degree for puff-paste ; put a small piece of the 
paste in previous to baking the whole, and then the heat can 
thus be judged of. 

Pie-crust can be kept a week, and the last be better than 
the first, if put in a tightly covered dish, and set in the ice- 
chest in summer, and in a cool place in winter, and thus you 
can make a fresh pie every day with little trouble. 

In baking custard, pumpkin or squash pies, it is well, in 
order that the mixture may not be absorbed by the paste, to 
first partly bake the paste before adding it, and when stewed 
fruit is used the filling should be perfectly cool when put in, 
or it will make the bottom crust sodden, 

PLAIN PASTRY FOE PIES 

1 qt. flour. 1 teaspoonful salt, 

1 cupful butter, (Half butter and half lard or 

1 cupful cold water. cottolene will do.) 

This quantity gives enough for three or four pies. Cotto- 
lene makes good pastry. The shortening may be mixed, but 
the flavor is better where butter alone is used. The richness 
of pastry depends upon the amount of shortening used. 

Sift the salt and flour together, reserving a little flour for 
the board. With a knife, cut the butter into the flour. Add 
the water a little at a time, and mix it in lightly with the 
knife ; turn it on to the board, and roll it twice — that is, after 
it is rolled out once, fold it together and roll it again. If 
the paste is wanted richer for the top crust, put bits of butter 
over the paste when rolled; fold and roll it again several 



256 PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 

times. Fold the paste, and put it in the ice-box for an hour 
before using, keeping it covered. In making pastry every- 
thing should be cold, the handling light, and the hands used 
as little as possible. Paste will keep several days in a cool 
place, but should be rolled in a napkin, so it will not dry and 
form a crust. 

To Put a Pie Together. — Roll the paste one-eighth inch 
thick, and a little larger than the tin. Dust the pan with 
flour ; place the paste on it, letting it shrink all it will. Lift 
it from the sides to fit into place, and press it as little as 
possible. Cut a narrow strip of paste, and lay around the 
edge ; moisten it so it will stick. Brush the top of the bottom 
crust with white of egg, so the filling will not soak in and 
make it heavy. Put in the filling, and cover with another 
sheet of pastry. Moisten the top of the strip of pastry so 
the top crust will adhere to it ; this gives three layers around 
the edge. Trim and press them lightly together. Cut sev- 
eral slits in the top crust to let the steam escape in cooking. 

A thin piece of paste cut into fancy shape can be placed 
in the centre for ornament if desired. 

PASTKY FOE TAETS OR OPEN PIES 
2 cups flour. 1 tablespoonful sugar, 

f cupful butter. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

■J teaspoonful salt, "Water. 

Sift the flour, salt, and sugar together. Cut in the butter 
as directed above. Mix in the beaten yolks, then enough 
water to make a paste which is not very stiff ; roll it two or 
three times, then wrap it in a cloth, or cover it closely, and 
put it in the ice-box for an hour. This gives enough paste 
for four small tarts, 

ICING FOR PASTRY 

To ice pastry, which is the usual method adopted for fruit 
tarts and sweet dishes of pastry, put the white of an egg on 



PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 257 

a plate, and with the blade of a knife beat to a stiff froth. 
When the pastry is nearly baked, brush it over with this, and 
sift over some pounded sugar ; put it back into the oven to set 
tlie glaze, and in a few minutes it will be done. Great care 
should be taken that the paste does not catch or burn in the 
oven, which it is very liable to do after the icing is laid on. 
Or make a meringue by adding a tablespoonful of white 
sugar to the beaten white of one egg. Spread over the top, 
and slightly brown in the oven. 



lEMON PIE AND TARTS 

2 lemons. 2 cups sugar, scant. 

2 eggs. Butter size of egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 1| cups water. 

Grate the rind and squeeze the juice of the lemons; beat 
eggs light and melt the butter. Mix all together. Make a 
puff paste and line the tins with the pastry. Brush over 
with the white of an egg and fill with the lemon mixture and 
bake. 

MINCE lEEAT FOR PIES 



5 lbs. beef. 


1 dessertspoonful each cinna- 


3 lbs. suet. 


mon, cloves, ginger, all- 


3 lbs. raisins. 


spice. 


3 lbs. currants. 


Chop beef, suet, apples, rai- 


f pk. apples. 


sins, add spices and mix 


1 cup molasses. 


w-ell; then add liquid in- 


1 cup beef liquor. 


gredients. 


1 pt. brandy. 


Cook for four or five hours on 


1 tablespoonful salt. 


back of stove. 


2 lbs. sugar. 





268 PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 

OLD. COUNTUY MINCE MEAT 

2 lbs. raisins. 1 small nutmeg. 

3 lbs. currants. 2 lbs. apples. 

1^ lbs. lean, chopped beef. 2 lemons, juice of one and 

3 lbs. beef suet, chopped. rind of two. 
2 lbs. brown sugar. ^ pt. brandy. 
6 oz. mixed candied peel. 

Stone the raisins and chop; wash the currants and dry; 
slice the peel thinly, grate the nutmeg, pare, core, and mince 
the apples, peel lemon and strain the juice. Get all your 
dry ingredients, including of course the beef (uncooked) and 
suet, well mixed; add the lemon-juice and brandy last, and 
press the mixture into a jar that will exclude the air. Set 
away for a fortnight before using. 

MINCE MEAT (WITH BEEF) 

2 lbs. boiled beef (chopped). 2 lbs. powdered sugar. 

2 lbs. beef suet. 1 qt. whisky. 

4 lbs. apples, 1 wineglass rose water. 
2 lbs. raisins. 2 grated nutmegs. 

2 lbs. currants. ^ oz. cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful salt. i oz. each cloves and mace. 

2 oranges, large. ^ lb. citron, sliced. 

Chop beef, suet, oranges, apples. Add spices, then liquids 
and cook 3 or 4 hours, slowly. Keep in jars tightly covered 
and set in a dry, cool place. 

MINCE MEAT IN 1812 

1 lb. chopped suet. 1 teacupful brandy. 

1 lb. chopped beef. 2 lbs. sultana raisins. 

1 qt. apple cider. 2 lbs. currants. 

1 pt. molasses. ^ lb. citron or lemon peel. 

1 pt. preserved grapes. Allspice, cinnamon, and 

1 lb. brown sugar. cloves to taste. 



PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 



259 



Simmer for half a day on the back of the stove till thor- 
oughly cooked. Put in a cool place in an earthen jar. If 
a very moist mince meat is preferred, add cider to each pie 
vphen baking ; have crust very short. 

MINCE MEAT (WITHOUT BEEF) 



1 lb. chopped suet. 

2 lbs. seeded raisins. 
2 lbs. currants. 
2 lbs. apples. 
2| lbs. sugar. 
2 nutmegs grated. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful each powdered ^ pt. brandy 

mace and ginger. 



4 lemons boiled (with seeds 

removed). 
Grated yellow rind of 2 raw 

lemons. 
•| lb. citron. 
•| lb. orange. 
^ pt. sherry. 



Mix all together, then stir in well half sherry and brandy. 
Cook several hours. 

MINCE MEAT 



4 lbs. raw beef, chopped. 
6 lbs. suet, chopped. 
1 pk. sour apples. 
6 lbs. brown sugar, 
4 lbs. seeded raisins. 
Spices to taste. 

Can be kept a year. 



2 lbs. currants. 

f lb. citron. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

6 lemons, juice. 

Pulp and peel of 2 lemons. 



SWEET POTATO CUSTARD PIE 

1 pt. mashed sweet potato. f cup butter. 

1 teacup sweet milk. 1 cup sugar. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. A little nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Cream sugar and butter together, mix with potatoes, flavor 
with nutmeg or cinnamon. Add beaten yolks and milk. 



260 PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir in, pour in pie-pan 
lined with crust and bake quickly. 



LEMON FILLING FOR TARTS, CAKES, ETC. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup boiling water. 

1 egg. 1 dessertspoonful cornstarch. 

Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. 

Beat sugar and egg to a cream, add rind and juice of 
lemon, previously prepared, also cornstarch, and blend 
thoroughly. Then pour in slowly cup of water, which must 
be boiling. Put on the fire in a double saucepan and allow 
it to simmer for ten minutes. The filling is then ready for 
nse. Orange may be used instead of lemon. 

LEMON PIE 

1 lemon, grated. Butter size of egg. 

1^ tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 1 cup hot water. 
:f cupful sugar. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Cook in double boiler, let it cool a little, then put in yolks 
last, after the other ingredients are well cooked. To prepare 
the lemon, grate off the outside, taking care to get only the 
yellow (the white is bitter), then squeeze out the juice. Bake 
your pie crust first, then add lemon filling; keep the whites 
for the meringue. Whip up the whites stiff, add a little pul- 
verized sugar, then spread on top of pie, and put in the oven 
for a few minutes. 

PIE CRUST 

Three cups flour sifted with two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one teaspoonful of salt, two cups of lard, one cup 
water. 



PASTRY, PIES AXD TAKTS 261 

CREAM PIE 

1 cup sweet mil-k. Butter size of egg. 

1 small cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful flour. 
Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Boil until it thickens, stirring constantly. Then ffll the 
shell (which has previously been baked) with the mixture, 
and ice with the whites of eggs. Place in oven a few minutes 
until icing begins to brown. 

MARTHA WASHINGTON PIE 

4 oz. blanched almonds. ^ gill rum. 

4 oz, powdered sugar. ^ saltspoonful ground einna- 

2 eggs. mon. 

2 oz. macaroons. 6 drops orange flower water. 

2 oz. melted butter. 

Pound almonds in a mortar with two ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, adding gradually one raw egg. When well 
pounded add two ounces more of sugar, melted butter, rum, 
ground cinnamon, orange flower water and break in another 
egg. Pound for five minutes and add well-pounded maca- 
roons. Line a pie plate with good paste, pour in the prepa- 
ration and bake ; decorate with candied fruits. 

TARTS 

(Apricot, Plum, Apple, Berry.) 

Roll the paste one-eighth of an inch thick, lay it on a deep 
pie-dish ; let it shrink all it will, and use as little pressure as 
possible in fitting it to the tin. Cut the paste an inch larger 
than the dish, and fold it under, giving a high twisted edge. 
Prick the paste on the bottom in several places with a fork. 
Lay over it a thin paper, and fill the tart with rice, dried 
peas, beans, cornmeal, or any dry material convenient. 



262 PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 

Brush the edge with egg, and bake it in a moderate oven. 
When done remove the rice, or other filling, and the paper. 
Brush the bottom with white of egg. This will insure a dry 
under crust. If apricots or peaches are to be used, peel and 
cut them in halves, lay them evenly over the tart with the 
centre side up. 

Place the half of a blanched almond in each one to repre- 
sent the pit. Put the juice of the fruit into a saucepan on 
the fire ; if there is no juice use a cupful of water. Sweeten 
to taste, and when it boils add to each cupful of juice one 
teaspoonful of arrowroot dissolved in a little cold water, and 
let it cook until clear ; then pour it around the fruit, but not 
over it, as the fruit should lie on top and show its form. 
Place in the oven only long enough to cook the fruit tender. 
If canned fruit is used, cook the juice and arrowroot until a 
little thickened and clear ; then pour it around the fruit, and 
let cool. It will not need to be put in the oven. 

When plums or cherries are used, remove the pits care- 
fully, and place the fruit close together, with the whole side 
■up. For apple tarts, cut the apples in even quarters op 
eighths; stew them in sweetened water, with a little lemon 
juice added, until tender. Lay them overlapping in even 
rows or circles in the tart. To a cupful of water in which 
the apples were stewed add a teaspoonful of arrowroot, and 
cook until clear ; pour it over the apples, sprinkle with sugar, 
nutmeg, and cinnamon. With berries, the fruit may be 
stewed or not before being placed in the tart; then strips 
of paste are laid across it, like lattice-work, and the paste 
brushed with egg. Bake long enough to cook the fruit and 
the strips of paste. When cold place a fresh berry on each 
piece of crust where it crosses ; or place a drop of meringue 
on the crusts, and the berries in the openings. 

The California canned fruits make very good pies. One 
can of fruit will make two pies. Tart-rings are better to 



PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 263 

use than pie-tins, as the sides are straight. Place them on a 
baking-sheet, or tin, before lining them with pastry. 

ORANGE PIE 

Juice and grated yellow rind 1 cupful sugar. 

of 1 orange. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

f cupful milk ^ saltspoonful salt. 
3 eggs. 

Beat the yolks and the sugar together; add the flour, the 
milk, and the grated rind and juice of the orange. Place it 
on the fire in a double boiler, and stir until it is a little thick- 
ened ; then pour it into an open or tart pie, and bake thirty 
minutes. The crust of the pie should be brushed with white 
of egg before adding the thickened mixture. The tart crust 
may be first baked, as directed above, if preferred. Cover 
the top with meringue made with the whites of the eggs and 
sweetened with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Pile it on 
irregularly, or press it through a pastry-bag into fancy 
shapes. Place it in the oven a moment to brown. A little 
more flour may be used if the pie is wanted more solid. 

PLAIN APPLE PIE 

Fill a pie with apples sliced thin, using enough to make 
the pie at least an inch thick when done. Add a little water 
to the apples, and cover with a top crust, which is a little 
richer than the under one. This is done by rolling out a 
part of the same paste, covering it with bits of butter, fold- 
ing it together, and rolling it again, repeating the operation 
two or three times. Cut a few slits in the paste to let out 
the steam while cooking. Brush the top with beaten yolk 
of egg. When the pie is baked, and while it is still hot, lift 
off carefully the top crust; add sugar, nutmeg, and a little 



264 PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 

butter, and mix them well with the apples. Eeplace the top 
crust, and dust it with powdered sugar, Apple pies sea- 
soned in this way are better than when seasoned before being 
baked. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

2^ cups pumpkin, cooked. 1 teaspoonful each salt, but- 

2 cupfuls milk. ter, cinnamon and ginger. 

2 eggs. Sugar to taste. 
1 tablespoonful molasses. 

To pulp add milk, salt, butter, cinnamon, and ginger, 
molasses, eggs, and sugar. Add the beaten eggs last and 
after the mixture is cold. Pour it into an open crust and 
bake slowly forty to fifty minutes. Squash pies are made 
in the same way, but are not the same in flavor, although 
they are often given the name of pumpkin pies. 

CEEAM PIE 

3 eggs. 2^ cups milk. 

1 cupful sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder, f cupful sugar. 

1 cupful flour. 1 egg. 

Cream for filling: 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Sift the flour and baking powder together ; beat the yolks 
and sugar together; add the flour and lastly the whipped 
Vi'hites of the eggs. Bake this cake mixture in two layers, 
and place between them when cold, and just before serving, a 
thick layer of whipped cream. Have the top piece covered 
with a boiled icing, or use between the cakes a cream filling 
made as follows: 

Cream for Filling. — Scald the milk; turn it on to the 
beaten egg; return it to the fire; add the flour moistened 
with a little milk, and the sugar, and stir until thickened. 



PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 265 

Let it cool before adding it to the cake. Serve with whipped 
cream if desired. 

COCOANTJT PIE 

1 pt. milk. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

3 eggs, yolks. 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. 

^ grated qpcoanut. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Line a tin basin which is tAvo inches deep with pie paste, 
and bake it. Scald the milk and turn it on to the yolks and 
sugar beaten together; return it to the fire; add the corn- 
starch moistened with cold milk, and stir until well thick- 
ened; add vanilla, and the whites of two eggs whipped to 
a froth; cook one minute to set the egg, then remove, and 
when nearly cold and stiffened stir in the cocoanut. Brush 
the bottom of the baked pie-crust wdth white of egg; cover 
it with a thin layer of grated cocoanut and turn in the 
thickened custard. Cover the top with meringue made with 
the white of one egg. Return it to the oven one minute 
to color the meringue. Let the pie stand long enough to 
get firm and cold before serving. If the grated cocoanut 
is not added until the custard has stiffened, it will not sink 
to the bottom. 

CEANBERRY PIE 

Chop one cupful of cranberries and a half cupful of 
seeded raisins together into small pieces ; add to them a cup- 
ful of sugar, a half cupful of w' ater, a tablespoonful of flour, 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake with an upper and 
under crust. This resembles cherry pie. 

LENT PIES 

Two tablespoons of ground rice to one pint of new milk, 
add five eggs and sweeten to taste, flavoring with two bay 
leaves. Cover pie plates with a good crust, pour in mixture 
and bake. 



266 PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 

lEMON FILLING FOR PIE 

One lemon, juice and rind grated; yolks of two eggs, one 
cup of water, one cup of sugar, one heaping teaspoonful of 
cornstarch. Put in a double boiler and boil thick. Save 
the whites for top. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

6 cups cooked pumpkin. 2 finely rolled crackers. 

3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful ginger. 

2 cups sugar. I nutmeg. 

^ cup molasses. Cinnamon and salt to taste. 

Put pumpkin in a pan with eggs, sugar, molasses (maple 
preferred), crackers, ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon and salt; 
stir well, add enough rich milk to thin. Bake in pastry 
shape. 

PUMPKIN PIE 

Three-quarters cupful of pumpkin (well mashed), one and 
a half cupfuls of milk, half cupful of sugar, one egg, half a 
teaspoonful of ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves. 

WALDORF PUMPKIN PIE 

3 pts. pumpkin pulp. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 
2 tablespoonfuls flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

4 eggs. 2 qts. milk. 
1 lb. sugar. 

Cook all together until well thickened; meanwhile make 
crust and line pie dish. Bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

PIE CRUST 

One-half pound flour, one-half pound butter, one-quarter 
pint cold water, yolk of one egg, juice of one-half lemon. 
Sift the flour thoroughly, then add a pinch of salt and two 
ounces of butter. Mix the yolk of egg and lemon juice with 



PASTRY, PIES AND TAETS 2G7 

the water and mix the flour into a paste with this, stirring 
with a silver fork, turn it on a board, roll it out one-half 
inch thick, put three ounces of butter on, fold it over and 
roll out three times. Line the patty tins thinly with this 
and put in a cool place till wanted; roll out the remainder 
of the paste, put the last three ounces of butter on it, and 
roll out five times, let it stand one-half an hour. Fill the 
patty tins with mincemeat, roll the paste out as thin as pos- 
sible, wet the edges of the paste in pans and cover each pie 
with three folds of paste. Bake in a quick oven for about 
twenty minutes. 

CREAM PUFFS 

Half a cup of butter melted in one cup of hot water, put 
on the stove to boil ; while boiling add one cup of flour. Take 
off and let cool; when cold stir in three eggs one after the 
other without beating ; drop on buttered tins and bake thirty 
minutes. 

Filling for the above. — One cup of milk, one egg, hall a 
cup of sugar. Thicken with two small tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch, and flavor w^th vanilla; add a small lump of 
butter. 

CHEESE TARTLETS 

Make a paste of one ounce butter, two ounces flour, one 
yolk of an egg, a little water and salt ; line some patty pans, 
beat up two ounces grated cheese in a basin with yolks of two 
eggs, add pepper, salt, etc.; work in a little cream or milk; 
fill each patty with mixture and bake in moderate oven. 

CHEESE PIE 

Prepare crust for custard pie, then fill crust half full of 
cheese shaved very fine, pour over this a custard made as 
follows: — One large cup milk, two eggs, one tablespoon 
melted butter. Bake in a very hot oven. 



268 PASTEY, PIES AND TARTS 

WRITTEN EECIPES 



PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 269 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



270 PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



PASTRY, PIES AND TARTS 271 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



CAKES 

SUGGESTIONS IN REGARD TO CAKE MAKING 

Use none but the best materials, and all the ingredients 
should be properly prepared before commencing to mix any 
of them. Eggs beat up much lighter and sooner by being 
placed in a cold place some time before using them ; a small 
pinch of soda sometimes has the same effect. Flour should 
always be sifted before using it. Cream of tartar or baking- 
powder should be thoroughly mixed with the flour; butter 
be placed where it will become moderately soft, but not 
melted in the least, or the cake will be sodden and heavy. 
Su^ar should be rolled and sifted ; spices ground or pounded ; 
raisins or any other fruit looked over and prepared ; currants, 
especially, should be nicely washed, picked, dried in a cloth, 
and then carefully examined, that no pieces of grit or stone 
may be left amongst them. They should then be laid on a 
dish before the fire to become thoroughly dry; as, if added 
damp to the other ingredients, cakes will be liable to be 
heavy. 

Eggs should be well beaten, the whites and yolks sepa- 
rately, the yolks to a thick cream, the whites until they are a 
stiff froth. Always stir the butter and sugar to a cream, 
then add the beaten yolks, then the milk, the flavoring, then 
the beaten whites, and lastly the flour. If fruit is to be used, 
measure and dredge with a little sifted flour, stir in gradu- 
ally and thoroughly. 

Pour all in well-buttered cake-pans. While the cake is 
baking, care should be taken that no cold air enters the oven, 

272 



CAKES 273 

only when necessary to see that the cake is baking properly ; 
the oven should be an even, moderate heat, not too cold or too 
hot; much depends on this for success. 

Cake is often spoiled by being looked at too often when 
first put into the oven. The heat should be tested before the 
cake is put in, w^hich can be done by throwing on the floor of 
the oven a tablespoonful of new flour. If the flour takes fire, 
or assumes a dark-brown color, the temperature is too high, 
and the oven must be allowed to cool; if the flour remains 
white after the lapse of a few seconds, the temperature is too 
low. AVhen the oven is of the proper temperature, the flour 
will slightly brown and look slightly scorched. 

Another good way to test the heat, is to drop a few spoon- 
fuls of the cake batter on a small piece of buttered letter- 
paper, and place it in the oven during the finishing of the 
cake, so that the piece will be baked before putting in the 
whole cake ; if the little drop of cake-batter bakes evenly with- 
out burning around the edge, it will be safe to put the whole 
cake in the oven. Then again if the oven seems too hot, fold 
a thick brown paper double, and lay on the bottom of the 
oven ; then after the cake has risen, put a thick brown paper 
over the top, or butter well a thick white paper and lay care- 
fully over the top. 

If, after the cake is put in, it seems to bake too fast, put a 
brown paper loosely over the top of the pan, care being taken 
that it does not touch the cake, and do not open the door for 
five minutes at least; the cake should then be quickly ex- 
amined, and the door shut carefully, or the rush of cold air 
will cause it to fall. Setting a small dish of hot water in the 
oven, will also prevent the cake from scorching. 

To ascertain when the cake is done, run a broom straw 
into the middle of it; if it comes out clean and smooth, the 
cake will do to take out. 

Where the recipe calls for baking-powder, and you have 
none, you can use cream tartar and soda in proportion to one 



274 CAKES 

level teaspoonful of soda, two heaping teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar. 

When sour milk is called for in the recipe, use only soda. 
Cakes made with molasses burn much more easily than those 
made with sugar. 

Never stir calve after the butter and sugar is creamed, but 
beat it down from the bottom, up, and over ; this laps air into 
the cake-batter, and produces little air cells, which causes the 
dough to puff and swell when it comes in contact with the 
heat while cooking. 

"When making most cakes, especially sponge cake, the flour 
should be added by degrees, stirred very slowlj'" and lightly, 
for if stirred hard and fast it will make it porous and tough. 

Cakes should be kept in tight tin cake-pans, or earthen 
jars, in a cool, dry place. 

Cookies, jumbles, ginger-snaps, etc., require a quick oven ; 
if they become moist or soft by keeping, put again into the 
oven a few minutes. 

To remove a cake from a tin after it is baked, so that it 
will not crack, break or fall, first butter the tin well all 
around the sides and bottom ; then cut a piece of letter-paper 
to exactly fit the tin, butter that on both sides, placing it 
smoothly on the bottom and sides of the tin. When done, 
let it stand a few minutes, and then it will come out easily. 

If a cake-pan is too shallow for holding the quantity of 
cake to be baked, for fear of its being so light as to rise above 
the pan, that can be remedied by thoroughly greasing a 
piece of thick glazed letter-paper with soft butter. Place or 
fit it around the sides of the buttered tin, allowing it to reach 
an inch or more above the top. If the oven heat is moderate, 
the butter will preserve the paper from burning. 

FROSTING OR ICING 

In the first place, the eggs should be cold, and the platter 
on which they are to be beaten also cold. Allow, for the 



CAKES 275 

white of one egg, one small teacupful of powdered sugar. 
Break the eggs and throw a small handful of the sugar on 
them as soon as you begin beating ; keep adding it at intervals 
until it is all used up. The eggs must not be beaten until 
the sugar has been added in this way, which gives a smooth, 
tender frosting, and one that will dry much sooner than the 
old way. 

Spread with a broad knife evenly over the cake, and if it 
seems too thin, beat in a little more sugar. Cover the cake 
with two coats, the second after the first has become dry, or 
nearly so. If the icing gets too dry or stiff before the last 
coat is needed, it can be thinned sufficiently with a little 
water, enough to make it work smoothly. 

A little lemon-juice, or half a teaspoonful of tartaric acid, 
added to the frosting while being beaten, makes it white and 
more frothy. 

The flavors mostly used are lemon, vanilla, almond, rose, 
chocolate, and orange. If you wish to ornament with figures 
or flowers, make up rather more icing, keep about one-third 
out until that on the cake is dried; then, with a clean, glass 
syringe, apply it in such forms as you desire and dry as be- 
fore ; what you keep out to ornament with may be tinted pink 
with cochineal, blue with indigo, yellow with saffron or the 
grated rind of an orange strained through a cloth, green 
with spinach juice, and brown with chocolate, purple with 
cochineal and indigo. Strawberry, or currant and cranberry 
juices color a delicate pink. 

Set the cake in a cool oven with the door open, to dry, or 
in a draught in an open window. 

PLUM CAKE 

One pound flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, one 
pound raisins, two pounds currants, six eggs, candied peel 
and spice, cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, table- 
spoonful molasses. 



276 CAKES 

KISSES 

"Whites of three eggs beaten stiff, one cup of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of cornstarch. Remove the lid of the kettle, 
set the bowl in the kettle and stir fifteen minutes. Add two 
cups of cocoanut ; drop on buttered paper. Slow oven. 

RASPBERRY CAKE 

Three-quarters of a cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup preserved raspberries, three eggs, one teaspoonful baking 
soda, tAvo cups flour or a little more. 

PLUM CAKE 

2 lbs. raisins. 1 teacup molasses. 

2 lbs. currants. -J lb. butter. 

1 lb. brown sugar. 6 eggs. 

■| lb. blanched almonds. ^ cupful milk. 

^ lb. citron, sliced. Cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg 

^ teaspoonful soda, to taste. 

I lb. lemon peel. 

Put soda in the last thing. Flour to make it stiff enough 
not to run. Brown the flour on the stove ; it must be sifted 
before using. Bake in a very slow oven, 

COCOANUT PUFFS 

Whites of 3 eggs. Vanilla. 

1 cup sugar. Cocoanut enough to make 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch. stiff. 

Beat whites of eggs very light and stiff, add sugar and 
cornstarch dissolved in a very little water and stirred into the 
eggs and sugar. Put on a double boiler and cook over water 
(boiling) for about twenty or twenty-five minutes. Stir 
occasionally to prevent sticking. Then add cocoanut enough 



CAKES 277 

to stand up well when dropped on buttered tins. It takes 
one-half a pound or a little more for this recipe. Flavor 
with vanilla and drop on tins, and bake eight or ten minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

SPONGE CAKE 

12 eggs. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

14 oz. sugar. 1 teaspoonful lemon extract. 

10 oz. sifted flour. A pinch of salt. 

Beat the eggs and sugar over a kettle of boiling water for 
some time (do not let it scald) ; then take off and beat in 
all twenty minutes. Then stir in the sifted flour, a very 
little at a time, and add vinegar, a pinch of salt and lemon 
essence. Have ready a tin, well buttered and sprinkled with 
sugar. Pour in the mixture, sprinkle sugar over the top and 
bake in a moderate oven forty minutes. 

LEMON JELLY FILLING FOR CAKES 

One cup sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons butter, the juice 
of two lemons. Beat all together and boil until of the con- 
sistency of jelly. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Four eggs, one cup flour, one cup sugar, one teaspoon 
baking powder, pinch salt, one teaspoon of vanilla. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sour milk, one cup 
molasses, four eggs, three cups flour, pinch salt, one table- 
spoon ginger, one teaspoon soda. 

SPONGE CAKE 

Four eggs, one cup flour, one cup sugar, one and one-half 
teaspoons baking powder. Beat whites and yolks separate, 



278 CAKES 

add sugar to whites, then yolks, flour, and baking powder. 
Mix quickly. 

CHOCOLATE GLACE 

I cup butter. ^ cupful milk. 

1 cup sugar. 1^ cupfuls flour. 

1 square chocolate. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 

2 eggs. der. 

Beat butter to a cream, and gradually work into this one 
cup sugar. Add chocolate, melted, and unbeaten eggs. Beat 
vigorously five minutes, then stir in milk, and, lastly, the 
flour, with which has been mixed two teaspoons of baking 
powder. Bake in a buttered, shallow cake-pan for half an 
hour in a moderate oven. Ice first with white icing, flavored 
with orange juice, and when this is set, with thick chocolate 
icing. 

FRUIT CAKE 

I lb. melted butter. ^ nutmeg, grated. 

■| lb. brown sugar or white ^ lb. currants. 

sugar. ^ lb. raisins and candied peel 

f cup scalding milk. mixed. 

1 lb. flour. 1 small teaspoonful soda. 

Mix well-melted butter with sugar, add scalding milk, grate 
one-half a nutmeg. Next stir in well the sifted flour, cur- 
rants, raisins and candied peel, then add soda wet with boiling 
water ; butter the pans, put a piece of buttered paper in bot- 
tom of pans ; this will make two good sized round cakes ; bake 
for one and one-half hours in a moderately hot oven, 

PEEL AND RAISIN CAKE 

Three cups sugar, one and one-half cups butter, five cups 
flour, one cup sweet milk, four eggs, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one small basin raisins and a cup of citron peel. 



CAKES 279 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE 

1 lb. lump sugar. Juice of 3 lemons. 

6 eggs (yolks). Rind of 2, grated. 

Whites of 2 eggs. | lb. butter. 

Mix all together in double boiler and stir gently over a 
fire until the mixture becomes thick ; put away in a bowl or 
crock and it will keep for weeks. Make a nice light paste 
and line little patty pans with it, and put a teaspoonful of 
the mixture into each ; bake in a hot oven. 

SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs, keep out 1 white. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 

1 cup sugar. der. 

1 cup sifted flour. 2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

1 teaspoonful vinegar. 

Mix eggs and sugar together, put bailing powder in flour, 
beat well, make icing with white of one egg; one cup icing 
sugar, juice of lemon or essence. 

ALMOND CAKE 

2 cups butter. 8 eggs. 

2 cups sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls ratafia. 

4 cups flour. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

1 cup chopped almonds. 2 teaspoonfuls baking-pow- 

2 cups raisins. der. 

This makes two cakes. Add the flour and baking powder 
mixed last of all. 

TREACLE SPONGE 

Six ounces bread crumbs, four ounces suet (a little salt), 
one egg, one tablespoonful baking powder, two tablespoon- 
fuls golden syrup ; when steamed, pour syrup over as sauce. 



280 CAKES 

APPLE SHORT CAKE 

Apple sauce seasoned with a little butter, and pinch of 
salt. Short Cake: — One pint of flour sifted with two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, add a little salt. Kub butter half 
size of an egg into the flour, and mix into a soft dough with 
one coffee-cup sweet milk. Divide dough into two parts, roll 
out one-half, put in pan; brush surface with melted butter. 
Koll out the rest and put on top. Bake in very hot oven. 
Divide, butter, and spread with sauce. Serve with cream. 

MALAGA FROSTING FOR CAKE 

Put one cup of seeded and chopped raisins into boiled 
frosting. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

(Premium "World's Fair.) 

3 eggs. 2 cups flour. 

1 slice of butter, one inch 2 heaping teaspoonfuls bak- 

thick, off a print. ing powder. 

1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

1 cup milk. 
5 heaping tablespoonf uls 



melted in saucepan together. 



chocolate. 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Cream butter and sugar together, add the beaten yolks of 
eggs; then add the above melted mixture; then the flour, 
which must be sifted five times, with the baking powder in 
it. Add alternately with the milk until both are used up. 
Then the vanilla, and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs. 
This can be baked in one good-sized tin as a loaf, or made 
into three layers, when the following filling is used : One 
pint cream whipped very stiff, sugar to taste and flavor with 



CAKES 281 

one teaspoonful coffee extract. No other flavoring goes with 
this cake. Put a layer of chopped walnuts, then the cream, 
between the layers, and on top. Bake in a medium oven. 
The kind of chocolate used is Thirardelli's. It is grated and 
comes in cans. 

CLOVE CAKE 

2 eggs. i cup sweet milk. 

1 cup brown sugar, 1^ cups flour. 

I cup butter. | teaspoonful soda. 

f cup chopped raisins. 1 teaspoonful ground cloves. 

Cream butter and sugar; drop the eggs in (not beaten), 
add soda to the milk, then part of the flour, then the fruit and 
the rest of the flour. 

SHORTBEEAD 

1 lb, butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 lbs. flour, der. 



lb. brown sugar. 



Beat butter to cream and dredge in flour and sugar gradu- 
ally. Must be well beaten. Roll out an inch thick. Pinch 
edge all around ; prick with a fork ; cut in small pieces. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

i cup butter. | cup milk. 

1 cup sugar. 1-J cups flour. 

1 oz. chocolate, melted. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

2 eggs. Vanilla flavoring. 

Beat butter to a cream and gradually beat into this one 
cupful of sugar, chocolate melted, also two unbeaten eggs. 

Beat vigorously for five minutes, then stir in milk, flour, 
with a generous teaspoonful of baking powder, flavor with 
vanilla; pour into a butter d shallow cake-pan and bake for 
half an hour in a moderate, oven. Any frosting can be used. 



282 CAKES 

SPONGE CAKE 

Four eggs, one cupful of fine white sugar, one cupful of 
flour, lemon flavoring. Beat yolks and whites separately, 
add half the sugar to yolks and half to whites and beat well, 
then beat both together, stir in flour, bake in slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE SPONGE 

2 eggs. 1| teaspoonfuls grated choc- 

^ cup sugar. olate. 

1^ teaspoonfuls milk. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

^ cup flour. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, add the grated 
chocolate and milk by turns ; put the baking powder into the 
flour and add them to the mixture, and lastly the beaten 
whites of the eggs. Steam an hour and a quarter. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

JAM CAKES 

1 cup butter. 3 teaspoonfuls soda dissolved 
1 egg. in 3 tablespoonfuls boiling 

■J cup brown sugar. water. 

•| cup molasses. Flour to make stiff dough. 

Roll thin; cut with cookie-cutter; when cooked and while 
hot spread with any kind of jelly and stick two together. 



COOKIES 

Qne cup of butter and lard mixed, one cup brown sugar, 
two eggs, one and a half teaspoons baking powder, flour 
enough to roll. Bake in quick oven. 



CAKES 283 

DATE CAKE 

2 cups rolled oats. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

2^ cups flour. Filling: 

1 cup brown sugar. 1 lb. dates. 

^ cup butter. 1 cup brown sugar. 

•| cup lard. 1 cup hot water, 

^ cup sour milk. 

Filling. — Eoll paste out quite thin, spread date filling be- 
tween two layers and cook together, and let cool. 



LAYER CAKE 

Small cup of sugar. Butter the size of an egg. Beat to- 
gether into a cream ; add three tablespoons milk ; three eggs 
(the yolks and whites beaten separately) ; two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder; full cup flour; flavoring to taste; medium 
oven. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

Three cups oatmeal, three cups flour, one cup boiling 
water, one cup melted lard, one scant teaspoon soda, one cup 
sugar. Roll very thin. These are a general favorite. 

DROP COOKIES 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

^ cup butter. der. 

1 cup milk, ^ nutmeg. 

Whites of 2 eggs. Flour to make very stiff. 

Drop in small spoonfuls on a buttered tin, sprinkle the top 
with English currants and sugar, and bake quickly. These 
are very fine. 



384 CAKES 

COCOANUT COOKIES 

One cup of white sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, 
three teaspoons of baking powder, one cup cocoanut, flour 
enough to roll nicely. Delicious. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE 

2 oz. chocolate. 4 eggs. 

1 cup butter. ^ cup milk. 
1| cups sugar. If cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 
der. 

Dissolve chocolate in five tablespoonfuls boiling water, beat 
butter to a cream, add gradually sugar, beating all while; 
add j'olks of eggs, beat again, then add milk, then the melted 
chocolate, and flour; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff 
froth and add to the mixture one teaspoon vanilla and baking 
powder sifted with flour. 

SPICE CAKE 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 teaspoonful each of cloves, 

1 cup dark sugar. allspice and cinnamon. 

1 large cup flour. 2 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

2 eggs. i cup sour milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Bake in two layers, ice and fill with icing made by boiling 
sugar and water. 

MACAEOONS 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, two cupfuls rolled oats, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, ratafia flavoring. Drop in a pan 
with spoon and bake. 



6AKBS 285 

CORNSTARCH CAKE 

J cup butter. 1 cup flour. 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1 cup sugar. der. 

^ cup cornstarch. Vanilla flavoring. 

Beat yolks of eggs, butter and sugar to a cream, then 
add whites, starch, flour, baking powder and milk last. This 
amount makes one dozen small cakes. 

WHITE ROCK CAKE 

Whites 3 eggs. ^ cup flour. 

^ cup melted butter. ^ cup milk. 

1 cup granulated sugar. 1 cup cornstarch. 

2^ teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Beat the eggs to a stiff froth ; sugar and butter to a cream ; 
mix flour and cornstarch with two and one-half teaspoonfuls 
baking powder ; then mix all together. 

GINGER CAKE 

Three cups of flour, one cup of sour milk, one cup of 
sugar, one cup of molasses, two-thirds cup of butter, two 
eggs not beaten, a little soda. 

SPONGE CAKE 

12 eggs. 1 heaping teaspoonful baking 
Weight of 10 eggs in sugar. powder. 

Weight of 9 in flour. A pinch of salt. 
Juice and rind of 1 lemon. 

It needs two people to make successfully, one to beat yolks 
while the other is beating whites, sifting flour with baking 
powder and salt, and preparing lemon. After beating yolks 



286 CAKES 

until very light add sugar, grated rind and juice of lemoi^ 
and well-beaten whites, beating all together fully five min- 
utes. Then add flour as quickly as possible and pour into 
large dripping pan lined with buttered paper about two 
inches in depth, putting in well-heated oven at once. Don't 
open oven door for fifteen minutes at least. After that try 
cake with a straw and when it comes out clean cake is done. 



ORANGE FILLING FOR CAKE 

•J pt. milk. Grated yellow rind of 1 or- 
2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch. ange. 

Yolks 4 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls orange juice. 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Put milk in a double boiler, moisten cornstarch with a little 
cold water, add it to the scalded milk, stir constantly until 
smooth and thick; beat the yolks of eggs with sugar, until 
light, add it to the cornstarch, take from the fire, and when 
cool add the grated yellow rind of one orange and two table- 
spoons of orange juice. 

PLAIN CAKE 

2 eggs. 2 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

^ cup milk. der. 



^ cup butter. 



Beat eggs well, then add sugar and afterwards the softened 
butter, stir in part of milk, and then half of the flour, 
through which baking powder has been sifted, then re- 
mainder of milk and flour. Bake in square tin ; cover with 
chocolate icing if desired or sifted sugar. 



CAKES 2S7 

FRTHT CAKE 

1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. citron. 

1 lb. flour. i lb. almonds, 
f lb. butter. ^ oz. mace. 

^ cup molasses. ^ teaspoonful rose water. 

10 eggs. 1 nutmeg. 

2 lbs. seeded raisins. 1 tablespoonful each cloves 
2 lbs. currants. and cinnamon. 

Beat sugar and butter together ; scorch the flour. Mix all 
together. Cook till done ; try with a straw. 

RICH PLUM CAKE, OR WEDDING CAKE 

4 lbs. flour. 4 lbs. almonds mixed with as 

3| lbs. butter. much sugar. 

3| lbs. sugar. 4 lbs. raisins. 
36 eggs, leaving out twelve 3 lbs. currants. 

whites. 3 oz, mixed spice. 

2 lbs. citron, 1 pt. each brandy, white wine 

2 lbs. orange. and rose water. 
2 lbs. lemon. 

Pound almonds fine, and mix with as much sugar ; put in 
an iron pot and stir constantly over the fire until quite dry. 
Stone raisins, and mince half of them fine. Mix batter and 
add fruits and spices ; then wine and egg whites last. Bake 
four hours in a well-buttered and papered pan. Sift plenty 
of flour on top before putting the cake in the oven. 

OATMEAL MACAROONS 

1 cup sugar. f teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 eggs. der. 
2 heaping cups rolled oats. 



288 



CAKES 



Grease your pan well, and drop in half teaspoonfuls of 
dough in the pan, leaving room to spread. Bake in hot oven 
fifteen minutes. 



SHORTBREAD 



1 lb. butter. 

2 lbs. flour. 

^ lb. brown sugar. 



Sweet almonds. 
Caraway comfits. 



Put butter into a basin, squeeze till quite soft, squeeze into 
it flour and sugar and almonds, chopped fine. Mix all well 
together, cut into cakes one-half an inch thick. Bake in a 
slow oven. 



PEEL CAKE 



12 eggs. 

^ lb. lemon peel. 
^ lb. citron peel. 
I lb. orange peel. 
1 lb. butter. 



1 lb. sugar. 
1 lb. flour. 
^ lb. almonds. 
1 gill brandy. 



Beat yolks and whites separately; lemon, orange, and cit- 
ron peel cut into small pieces, butter beaten to a cream, add 
sugar, almonds chopped very fine, flour, yolks of eggs and 
brandy. Add whites of eggs last. This cake will keep for 
months in a cool dry place. 



\1 cup sugar. 
^ cup butter. 
I cup milk. 
1 cup flour. 
Whites 4 eggs. 



ICE CREAM CAKE 



^ cup cornstarch. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking 

der. 
1 teaspoonful flavoring. 



pow- 



CAKES 289 

Cream butter and sugar together, add milk and flavoring, 
sift in flour, cornstarch, and baking powder mixed together, 
lastly add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in 
a square pan and ice with white icing. 



DEWEY ICING 

One cup icing sugar, butter the size of a walnut, white of 
an egg, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one teaspoonful of lemon. 
Mix butter and sugar, and add the egg ; then the other ingre- 
dients, and spread on the cake when cold. 



BRIDESMAID'S CAKE 

^ lb. butter. 1 glass sherry. 

^ lb. sugar. A little rose water and mace. 

Whites of 14 eggs, f lb. flour. 

^ lb. almonds. 

Butter and sugar beaten to a cream, the whites of eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, almonds pounded fine, with rose water 
and sherry, and a little mace, are made into a paste ; rub this 
into three-quarter pounds of flour, and add lightly and 
quickly to the other ingredients already mixed. The al- 
monds, paste, and flour should be prepared first. Bake in 
moderate oven. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD 

One pound flour, one-half pound butter, one-quarter pound 
sugar, fine granulated. Put flour on board, add butter and 
sugar, and knead with the hand until a nice dough is formed. 
'Roll into a round cake any thickness desired and bake in a 
moderate oven about half an hour, or until it is nicelj^ 
browned. Cut into shapes while hot. 



290 CAKES 

ORANGE CAKE 

^ cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1 cup sugar. der, 

1^ cups flour. Flavor with rind of 1 orange, 

1 cup milk. grated. 

Whites 3 eggs. 

Flavor the cake Avith the rind of an orange grated. Bake 
in shallow long pan, pour icing over cake without removing 
from the oven; when the cake is quite done let it harden. 
Use yolks for icing with one cup sugar and a teaspoon lemon 
extract. 

SHREWSBURY COOKIES 

One-half pound flour, same of butter and sugar, well mixed 
together, two eggs and a teaspoon mace, roll out thin and 
cut any size you like ; bake in a slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

3 eggs. Filling: 

1 cup white sugar. 1 cake chocolate and 1 teacup 

1 teacup melted butter. water. 

Milk enough to make batter. Confectioner's sugar to make 

2 teacups flour. it stiff. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Beat whites and yolks separately first, and then together; 
beat into this sugar, and then melted butter. Sift flour into 
which you have stirred two teaspoons baking powder and a 
pinch of salt. Beat it gradually into the eggs, etc., and then 
add enough milk to make a moderately stiff batter. Bake in 
two layer cake tins in quick oven. Chocolate Filling. — Melt 
chocolate in teacup boiling water on -stove ; add sugar enough 
to stiffen it into a thick paste ; put this between layers while 
they are hot and ice top of cake. 



CAKES 291 

EAISIN LAYER CAKE 

1 cup brown sugar. | cup sour milk. 

i cup butter. ^ teaspoonful soda, 

2 eggs. ^ teaspoonful each cinnamon, 
1 cup flour. nutmeg and allspice. 

1 cup chopped raisins. 

Bake in layers in a moderate oven. 

SPONGE CAKE 

1 cup flour. "I teaspoonful soda dissolved 

1 cup sugar. in 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 1| tablespoonfuls cold water. 

A pinch of salt. Juice of ^ lemon. 

3 eggs. 

Mix together flour, sugar, cream tartar, and a little salt. 
Break eggs and beat thoroughly ; soda dissolved in cold 
water, juice of lemon. Bake in moderate oven. 

IMPERIAL CAKE 



1 lb. sugar. 


^ lb. raisins. 


1 lb. butter. 


^ lb. citron. 


10 eggs. 


1 teaspoonful nectarine. 


Juice and rind of 1 lemon. 


2 tablespoonfuls rose water. 


1 lb. flour. 


1 tablespoonful brandy. 


1 lb. almonds. 





Sugar and butter stirred to a cream, then beaten yolks of 
eggs, grated rind and juice of lemon, then flour and stiff 
whites of the eggs; have prepared beforehand one pound of 
almonds blanched and split (or, if you prefer, pounded), 
raisins stoned and halved and citron cut in thin slips; have 
these well dredged with two tablespoonfuls of extra flour; 



292 CAKES 

one teaspoonful of extract of nectarine in one teaspoonful of 
water, rose water, brandy. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

Three cups oatmeal, two cups flour, one-half cup brown 
sugar, three-quarter cup butter, one-half teaspoonful soda 
dissolved in one-quarter cup boiling water. Bake in oven 
until a light brown. 

LAFAYETTE GINGERBREAD 



^ lb. fresh butter. 






1 glass brandy. 


^ lb. brown sugar. 






li lbs. flour. 


1 pt. molasses. 






6 eggs. 


1 pt. milk. 






Juice and rind of 2 oranges. 


4 tablespoonfuls ginger. 




1 level teaspoonful soda. 


1 heaping tablespoonful 


1 small level saltspoonf ul tar- 


mixed cinnamon, 


mace 


and 


taric acid; 



nutmeg (ground). 

Stir butter and sugar to cream with a spaddle. Add mo- 
lasses mixed with half a pint of warm milk ; ginger ; a heaped 
tablespoonful of mixed powdered cinnamon and powdered 
mace and nutmeg, and a glass of brandy. Sift in flour. 
Beat eggs till very light, then mix them alternately with 
the flour into the pan of butter, sugar, molasses, etc. At the 
last mix in the yellow rind (grated fine) the oranges and the 
juice. Stir the whole very hard. Melt in one cup the soda, 
and in another the tartaric acid. Dissolve them both in luke- 
warm water and see that both are quite melted. First stir 
the soda into the mixture and then put in the tartaric acid. 
On no account exceed the quantity of the two alkalies, as if 
too much is used they will destroy entirely the flavoring and 
communicate a very disagreeable taste instead. Having but- 
tered a large round or oblong pan, put in the mixture and 



GAKES 298 

bake it in a moderate oven till thoroughly done, keeping up a 
steady heat, but watching that it does not burn. 

SEED CAKE 

1 cup butter. 3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 cups sugar (scant). der. 

1 cup milk. Whites 6 eggs. 

3 cups flour. A heaping teaspoonful cara- 

way seeds. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add milk, half the stiffly 
beaten whites and half the flour and baking powder, then the 
rest of the whites and flour and the seeds. Beat well and 
bake in two small loaves or one large one. Ice while warm. 

EASY CAKE 

Three-quarters cup granulated sugar, piece of butter size of 
an egg, and two eggs. Beat all together until light; add 
half a cup of milk, two cups of flour and one heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, beat again. Bake in two layers. 

WHOLE WHEAT GINGER SNAPS 

One eup Orleans molasses, one-half cup shortening, one- 
half cup brown sugar. Place on stove and let come to a 
boil, then take off immediately and add a half teaspoon soda 
and a teaspoon ginger; then add whole wheat flour until 
thick enough to roll. 

MOCHA CAKES 

1 cup sugar. Icing: 

I cup butter. 2 cups powdered sugar. 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1^ cups flour. 1 tablespoonful water and 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- vanilla. 

der. 1 lb. almonds, chopped, or 

Whites 4 eggs. peanuts. 



294 CAKES 

Cream butter and sugar, beating all the time, slowly add 
the milk, then the flour and baking powder sifted together, 
gently fold in well-beaten whites. Bake in a long pan or in 
two square layer-cake tins. Icing. — Beat sugar, butter, 
water v/ith vanilla; if not soft enough add more water. 
When cake is cold cut in pieces about an inch square, which 
hold on a two-pronged fork, ice on five sides and dip in a 
bowl of finely rolled peanuts or chopped parched almonds, 
previously prepared. 

WALNUT WAFERS 

One cup brown sugar, one cup walnut meats, one well- 
beaten egg, six teaspoons flour, one teaspoon baking powder. 
Drop small drops in well-buttered pans and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. 

DAYTON CAKE 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, 
five eggs. Scant teaspoonful of cream of tartar, scant half 
teaspoonful of soda, two-thirds of a cup of milk. This recipe 
was used before baking powder w^as known. I think baking 
powder could be used, a heaping teaspoonful. 

MOLASSES CAKE 

1 scant cup butter. 4 cups sifted flour. 

1 cup brown sugar. 1 tablespoonful ginger. 

1 cup molasses. 2 tablespoonfuls soda. 
1 cup sour milk. 

Dissolve soda in a little cold water. Bake in moderate 
oven. 

LIGHT SPONGE CAKE 

Three eggs, beat one minute; one and one-half cups white 
sugar, beat five minutes ; add one cup flour, beat one minute 
more; then add one-half cup water, one cup flour, two tea- 



CAKES 295 

spoons baking powder; flavored to taste with lemon or van- 
illa. Bake in a moderate oven twenty-five or thirty minutes. 



ECCIES CAKES 

Make a very short paste and roll lightly (always in one 
direction, never back and forth), and cut into squares about 
five inches. Place on each square currants which have been 
heated in a syrup of brown sugar and fold over the sides so 
as to make a square cake with round opening; put a little 
syrup in each cake before baking in a very hot oven. 





SPICE 


CAKE 


cup brown sugar. 




2 eggs. 


cup butter. 




1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 


cup molasses. 




^ teaspoonful cloves. 


cup sweet milk. 




2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 


cups flour. 




der. 



This is nice for either a loaf or a layer cake. 



aiNGER COOKIES 

1 cup sugar. 3 eggs, 

1 cup black molasses. 2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 

1 cup lard (scant). 1 heaping teaspoonful soda 

Flour to roll. dissolved in 2 of hot water. 



Bake in hot oven. 



CUP CAKE 



One cup of butter washed in warm water, two cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, five eggs mixed in one by one, four 
cups of flour sifted in and four teaspoons of baking powder. 



296 CAKES 

LEMON CAKE 

Quarter pound butter, half pound sugar, three eggs, grated 
rind of a fresh lemon, half pound flour, one teaspoon 
baking powder, half cup milk. 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Beat white of one egg stiff, add one teaspoon of vanilla 
and one tablespoon of water, and enough icing sugar to make 
stiff. Melt one-sixth of a package of Baker's chocolate, then 
beat into egg and sugar and spread it on the cake. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

Five cups oatmeal, one cup flour, one cup brown sugar, 
one cup butter, one egg, one-half teaspoonful of soda, on« 
tableepoonful water. 

CORNMEAL CAKES 

Three-quarters cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, two 
eggs, one cup flour, one cup cornmeal, two teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder, one-half cup milk. 

MAPLE SUGAR CAKE 

11 cups sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

^ cup butter. der. 

1 cup milk. Filling : 

4 eggs. 1 cup maple syrup. 

2 cups flour. White 1 egg. 

Bake in layers. Filling. — Maple syrup boiled to a soft 
wax and poured over the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. 
Beat thoroughly. 



CAKES 297 

OATMEAL MACAROONS 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
^ teaspoonful salt. der. 

3 cups rolled oats. 2 eggs. 

Put tiny drops on a greased pan in moderate oven. 

EXCELLENT LUNCH CAKE 

One coffee-cup butter melted, one cup sweet milk, one and 
one-half cups of sugar, three and one-half cups flour, three 
eggs (reserving one of the whites for icing), three teaspoons 
baking powder. Bake in a shallow meat tin. 

COCOANUT PUFFS 

Beat whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; add slowly one 
small cup sugar and one tablespoon cornstarch. Place mix- 
ture in double boiler and cook fifteen minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Then add two cups cocoauut and one teaspoon van- 
illa and drop on buttered tins in teaspoonfuls and bake a 
delicate brown. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE 

2 lbs. flour. 1| lbs. currants. 

1 lb, butter. |- lb. mixed peel. 

1^ lbs. brown sugar. 2 heaping teaspoonfuls 

8 eggs, beaten separately. ground cinnamon. 

2 teacups milk. 4 teaspoonfuls lemon ex- 
2 heaping teaspoonfuls bak- tract. 

ing powder. f nutmeg, grated. 

1^ lbs. raisins. 

Bake between three and four hours. 



298 CAKES 

ROCK CAKE 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, two eggs, two cups 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder, two cups currants. 
Drop from a spoon in small cakes. 

DROP CAKES 

1 cup butter. 1 tablespoonful whisky. 

1 cup sugar. Flour enough to make stiff 
4 eggs. batter. 

With or without caraway seeds on top of each cake. Beat 
butter to a cream, then add yolks well beaten, then part of 
the flour; whites beaten stiff; whisky; rest of flour. Bake 
in a quick oven, on a buttered paper. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE 

2 cups sugar. Whites of 5 eggs. 

§ cup milk. Cochineal to color half. 

^ cup butter. Put nuts in icing. 

1 cup flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Cream butter, snjar and milk together, then part of flour, 
whites of eggs with the rest of flour. Divide and color one 
portion. Fill bake-pan with alternate layers of white and 
pink. Must not be moved in the oven until cooked. 

A GOOD SPONGE CAKE 

12 eggs. Weight of 6 in flour. 

Weight of 10 in sugar. Flavor with lemon extract. 

Directions. — Beat the yolks stiff, then add the sugar ; beat 
with the yolks until very light ; now essence ; now gently stir 
in whites which have been beaten stiff, and last put in flour. 



CAKES 299 

Stir it in, do not beat it in ; have buttered pans ready. Bake 
in moderate oven. 

EIBBON CAKE 

2 cups sugar. A pinch of salt. 

3 eggs. 1 teaspoonful saleratus or 3 
f cup butter. of baking powder. 
1 cup milk. Flavor with lemon or almond. 



3 cups flour. 



Put half the above in two oblong pans. To the remainder 
add one tablespoon of molasses, one large cup of raisins 
stoned and chopped, one teaspoon of cinnamon, half a tea- 
spoon each of cloves and allspice, grate in a little nutmeg, 
then add one spoonful of flour. Put into two pans of the 
same size and shape as those above. Put the sheets together 
while warm, alternately, with a little jelly or raspberry jam 
between. Cut in thin slices for the table. It will cut most 
easily the day after it is baked. It may be baked in one large 
pan without the fruit, pouring in the dark and light in alter- 
nate layers. When baked thus it is a handsome marble cake. 

JELLY OR LAYER CAKE 

Whites of 4 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1 cup sugar. der. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 cups flour. 
2 cups milk. 

Beat the whites stiff and add last (after the flour) ; flavor 
with a few drops of lemon or vanilla. 

Layer cake: To use yolks. | cup milk. 

1^ cups sugar. 2^ cups flour. 

•| cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

4 yolks. der. 

(By adding fruit will make a very good fruit cake.) 



300 CAKES 

OATMEAL WAFERS 

2 cups oatmeal. 1 teaspoonful ground spice. 

1 cup flour. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup brown sugar. Scant teaspoonful soda. 

■| cup butter. 

Mix the meal and flour and rub butter and sugar well in, 
add the other ingredients. Moisten slightly with a little cold 
water. Add more flour as required, and roll out a very small 
piece at a time as thin as possible. To get them thin the mix- 
ture must not be too soft. Cut with a sharp fluted tin cutter. 
Bake in a hot oven. 

ANGEI CAKE 

12 eggs, whites only. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

1^ cups sugar. Vanilla or almond extract. 

1 cup flour. 

Sift sugar, flour, and cream tartar well together and beat 
in the whites of eggs — already well beaten. Bake in slow 
oven sixty minutes, in a pan not greased. 

SIIVEE CAKE 

Take one cup of sugar, half a cup of milk, one and a half 
cupfuls of flour, half a cup of butter, whites of four eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half teaspoonful of soda. 

CUP CAKE 

One cup of butter, creamed, with two cups of sugar, four 
eggs, beaten separately ; one cup of milk, three cups of sifted 
flour, four even teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Mix with 
the hand. 

FIG PASTE FILLING 

1 lb. figs. 1 cup cold water. 

2 cups sugar. 



CAKES 301 

Put figs into a bowl and pour boiling water over them, 
letting stand till soft, then cutting into small pieces with 
scissors ; first cut off all the small hard pieces, and then chop 
figs until they become a thick paste; add sugar and water, 
and cook till thick and clear. 

VANILLA WAFERS 



1 cup sugar. 


1-| teaspoonful cream tartar. 


1 cup butter. 


f teaspoonful soda. 


1 egg. 


Flour to make stiff enough to 


4 tablespoonfuls milk. 


roll. 



4 tablespoonfuls vanilla. 

Cut in pieces three inches by one inch. 

SCOTCH CAKE 

^ lb. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 

f lb. flour. A pinch of soda. 

Put the butter in a large bowl, rubbing a few times with 
the hand ; then put the flour, sugar and soda in a sifter, and 
as these are sifted into the butter mix with the hand, the 
warmth being sufficient to make all into a dough. Have a 
pan ready with buttered paper, and put the ball of dough 
on this, pressing to the desired thinness with the hands. 
Prick with fork on top, and bake twenty minutes or so in a 
moderate oven. Cut in squares while in the pan and hot, 
directly upon being taken out of the oven. 

WALNUT CREAM FILLING FOR LAYER CAKES 

Quarter pound of butter, quarter pound icing sugar, half 
pound walnuts. Beat butter with sugar to a cream ; chop the 
walnuts fine and beat them well into the sugar and butter; 
flavor wdth vanilla and a little sherry. 



302 CAKES 

TEA CAKE 

One pint flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one cup milk, 
one egg, three tablespoons sugar, one large tablespoon butter. 
Bake in flat tins in quick oven. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS 

2 eggs, whites. 1 heaping cup cocoanut. 

I cup sugar, large. Vanilla flavoring. 

1 dessertspoonful cornstarch. 

Stir into sugar one dessertspoon cornstarch. Stir this into 
whites of eggs beaten very stiff. Set over steam of kettle and 
stir till sugary around edges, about twenty minutes. Take 
off and stir in one heaping cup shredded cocoanut. Flavor, 
vanilla. Drop on buttered paper. Bake in rather quick 
oven. 

WALNUT CAKE 

Whites 4 eggs. 1 cup chopped nuts. 

2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

^ cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

1 cup milk. Vanilla flavoring. 



3 cups flour. 



Beat butter in sugar, add milk, flour, nuts, eggs last ; then 
bake slowlj''. Frost with chocolate frosting, with half wal- 
nuts on top. 

lEMON CHEESE CAKES 

1 lb. sugar. 5 eggs. 

Juice and grated rind 2 J lb. butter, 
lemons. 

Place over a slow fire, stirring until dissolved; add one 
rolled biscuit; place in a jar for use. Make small shells of 
puff paste and fill with the lemon filling. 



CAKES 303 

ROCK CAKES 

^ lb. butter. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

^ lb. sugar. | teaspoonful soda. 

1 lb. flour. 1 cup currants. 

3 eggs. Flavor to taste. 

Drop on buttered tins. Bake in moderate oven. 

SPONGE CAKE 

4 eggs. Juice and rind of 1 lemon. 
1 cup sugar. 1 scant cup flour. 

Beat eggs separately ; when whites are very stiff beat into 
them one-half a cup of sugar; beat the yolks and add the 
other half cup of sugar ; beat for five minutes by the clock ; 
add to yolks rind and juice of lemon; now beat yolks and 
whites together and scant cup of flour stirred in quickly. 
Sprinkle top of cake with sugar when in cake-tin before put- 
ting in the oven. Bake one-half an hour. 

TEA CAKES 

1 pt. flour. 1 generous tablespoonful 

1 teaspoonful salt. shortening. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 1 large tablespoonful mashed 
der. potato. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 small cup raisins or cur- 

rants. 

Sift flour, baking powder, sugar and salt twice; cut in 
shortening; moisten with milk, adding potato and currants. 
Roll gently to thickness of one inch; cut in round cakes the 
size of small tea-plate. Bake twenty minutes in hot oven; 
cut open, butter and replace, cutting each cake in four. 
Serve hot. 



3t4 CAKES 

CRITLIERS 

One and a quarter pounds of white sugar, one-half pound 
of butter, eight eggs, well beaten, one nutmeg, flour enough 
to roll out. Fry in very hot lard. 

SPONGE EOLL 

1 cup boiling water. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 cups sugar. der. 

3 cups flour. Jelly or jam. 

4 eggs. 

Beat the yolks and sugar together ; slowly pour over them 
the boiling water ; stir in the sifted flour and lastly the beaten 
whites of the eggs, retaining a little of the flour mixed with 
the baking powder until the very last. Bake in thin layers 
and while hot spread with jelly or jam and roll. This is 
excellent. 

GEEIvIAN COFFEE CAKE 

To a quart of lukewarm milk use one Fleischmann 's yeast 
cake, flour enough to make stiff sponge (sifting flour twice 
before using), knead till batter shows large bubbles, mix in 
evening; next morning knead again; put batter about three- 
quarters high in tins, let raise till twice this size, glaze with 
melted butter, and sprinkle Avitli cinnamon and sugar over 
top (or chopped almonds instead of cinnamon). Bake in 
medium hot oven. Serve with coffee. 

LUNCH CAKES 

1 qt. flour. I cup currants. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls 2 eggs. 
butter. 1 cup milk. 

^ cup sugar. 

Into flour rub butter. Add sugar, baking powder and cur- 
rants. Beat eggs, add to them one cupful of milk and stir 



CAKES 305 

into the dry mixture, adding more milk, if it is necessary, to 
mix to a soft dough. Roll out as for biscuits ; cut into three- 
inch squares, rub the top of each with a mixture of milk and 
sugar and bake in a hot oven. Split, butter and serve v.-hile 
hot. 

SHORTBREAD 

IJ lbs. flour. I lb. sugar, 

f lb. butter. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beating until light, then add 
the flour. Mould and roll into cakes about an inch thick. 
Pinch them neatly round the edges, and prick them on the 
top with a fork. Bake slowly till a light golden brown. 
Some add cut citron, candied peel and sprinlde caraway com- 
fits on top of each square. 



306 CAKES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



CAKES 307 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



308 CAKES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



CAKES S09 

WRITTEII RECIPES 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 
GENERAL DIRECTIONS 

Among all civilized people bread has become an article of 
food of the first necessity ; and properly so, for it constitutes 
of itself a complete life sustainer, the gluten, starch and 
sugar which it contains representing ozotized and hydro- 
carbonated nutrients, and combining the sustaining powers 
of the animal and vegetable kingdoms in one product. As 
there is no one article of food that enters so largely into our 
daily fare as bread, so no degree of skill in preparing other 
articles can compensate for lack of knowledge in the art of 
making good, palatable and nutritious bread. A little ear- 
nest attention to the subject will enable any one to compre- 
hend the theory, and then ordinary care in practice will make 
one familiar with the process. 

The first thing required for making wholesome bread is 
the utmost cleanliness; the next is the soundness and sweet- 
ness of all the ingredients used for it; and, in addition to 
these, there must be attention and care through the whole 
process. 

Salt is always used in bread-making, not only on account 
of its flavor, which destroys the insipid raw state of the flour, 
but because it makes the dough rise better. A little practise 
will soon teach the housekeeper the proper amount of salt 
to use. 

In mixing with milk, the milk should be boiled — not simply 
scalded, but heated to boiling over hot water — then set aside 
to cool before mixing. Simple heating will not prevent bread 
from turning sour in the rising, while boiling will act as a 

310 



BKEAD AND MUFFINS 311 

preventative. So the milk should be thoroughly scalded, and 
should be used when it is just blood warm. 

Too small a proportion of yeast, or insufficient time al- 
lowed for the dough to rise properly, will cause the bread 
to be heavy. 

The yeast must be good and fresh if the bread is to be 
digestible and nice. Stale yeast produces, instead of vinous 
fermentation, an acetous fermentation, which flavors the 
bread and makes it indigestible. A poor, thin yeast produces 
an imperfect fermentation, the result being a heavy unwhole- 
some loaf. 

If either the sponge or the dough be permitted to over- 
work itself — that is to say, if the mixing and kneading be 
neglected when it has reached the proper point for either — 
sour bread will probably be the consequence in warm weather, 
and bad bread in any. The goodness will also be endangered 
by placing it so near a fire as to make any part of it hot, 
instead of maintaining the gentle and equal degree of heat 
required for its due fermentation. 

Heavy bread will also most likely be the result of making 
the dough very hard, and letting it become quite cold, par- 
ticularly in winter. 

An almost certain way of spoiling dough is to leave it half 
made, and to allow it to become cold before it is finished. 
The other most common causes of failure are using yeast 
which is no longer sweet, or which has been frozen, or has 
had hot liquid poured over it. 

As a general rule, the oven for baking bread should be 
rather quick, and the heat so regulated as to penetrate the 
dough without hardening the outside. The oven-door should 
not be opened after the bread is put in until the dough is set 
or has become firm, as the cool air admitted will have an un- 
favorable effect on it. 

The dough should rise and the bread begin to brown after 
about fifteen minutes, but only slightly. Bake from fifty to 



312 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

sixty minutes, and have it brown, not black or whitey brown, 
but brown all over when well baked. 

When the bread is baked, remove the loaves immediately 
from the pans, and place them where the air will circulate 
freely around them and thus carry off the gas which has been 
formed, but is no longer needed. 

Never leave the bread in the pan or on a pine table to ab- 
sorb the odor of the wood. If you like crusts that are crisp 
do not cover the loaves; but to give the soft, tender, wafer- 
like consistency which many prefer, wrap them, while still 
hot, in several thicknesses of bread-cloth. When cold put 
them in a stone jar, removing the cloth, as that absorbs the 
moisture and gives the bread an unpleasant taste and odor. 
Keep the jar well covered, and carefully cleansed from 
crumbs and stale pieces. Scald and dry it thoroughly every 
two or three days. A yard and a half square of coarse table 
linen makes the best bread-cloth. Keep in good supply ; use 
them for no other purpose. 

Some people use scalding water in making wheat bread; 
in that case the flour must be scalded and allowed to cool be- 
fore the yeast is added, — then proceed as above. Bread made 
in this manner keeps moist in summer, much longer than 
when made in the usual mode. 

Home-made yeast is generally preferred to any other. 
Compressed yeast, as now sold in most grocery stores, makes 
fine, light, sweet bread, and is a much quicker process and 
can always be had fresh, being made fresh every day. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 

In making batter-cakes, the ingredients should be put to- 
gether over night to rise, and the eggs and butter added in 
the morning ; the butter melted and eggs well beaten. If the 
batter appears sour in the least, dissolve a little soda and stir 
into it; this should be done early enough to rise some time 
before baking. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 313 

Water can be used in place of milk in all raised dough, 
and the dough should be thoroughly light before making into 
loaves or biscuits; then, when moulding them, use as little 
flour as possible; the kneading to be done when first made 
from the sponge, and should be done well and for some length 
of time, as this makes the pores fine, the bread cut smooth 
and tender. Care should be taken not to get the dough too 
stiff. 

When any recipe calls for baking-powder, and you do not 
have it, you can use cream tartar and soda, in the proportion 
of one level teaspoonful of soda to two of cream tartar. 

When the recipe calls for sweet milk or cream, and you do 
not have it, you may use in place of it sour milk or cream, 
and, in that case, baking-powder or cream of tartar must not 
be used, but baking-soda, using a level teaspoonful to a quart 
of sour milk; the milk is always best when just turned, so 
that it is solid, and not sour enough to whey or to be watery. 

When making biscuits or bread with baking-powder or 
soda and cream tartar, the oven should be prepared first ; the 
dough handled quickly and put into the oven immediately, 
as soon as it becomes the proper lightness, to ensure good suc- 
cess. If the oven is too slov/, the article baked will be heavy 
and hard. 

As in beating cake, never stir ingredients into batter, but 
beat them in, by beating down from the bottom, and up, and 
over again. This laps the air into the batter, which produces 
little air-cells and causes the dough to puff and swell as it 
comes in contact with the heat while cooking. 

TO RENEW STALE ROLLS 

To freshen stale biscuits or rolls, put them into a steamer 
for ten minutes, then dry them off in a hot oven; or dip each 
roll for an instant in cold water and heat them cisp in the 
oven. 



314 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

MUFFINS 

1 cup scalded milk. | teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup boiling water. ^ cake yeast, 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 egg. 

^ cup sugar. 4 cups flour. 

Add butter, sugar and salt to the scalded milk and water. 
"When lukewarm add the yeast, and when that is dissolved 
add the egg and flour and beat all well together. Place the 
crock of this mixture in a warm room for over night. The 
next day you fill buttered rings two-thirds full of this batter, 
and set them aside till risen to the top of the rings. Bake 
half an hour. They should be ready for baking in time for 
an early lunch if mixed at ten o'clock or later the night 
before. 

OLD-FASHIONED YEAST 

6 large potatoes. | cup salt. 

2 qts. water. 1 yeast cake. 

"I cup sugar. A handful of hops. 

Tie the hops in a piece of cheesecloth and cook in with 
potatoes. When done put through the colander; add salt 
and sugar ; when luke warm add the dissolved yeast cake ; let 
stand in a warm place, when it will be ready for use ; after 
keep in a cool place. This is excellent and never fails. 

SPICED RAISIN LOAF 

2 cups warmed milk. 3 eggs. 

^ cup old-fashioned yeast. 1 lb. seeded raisins. 
■| cup butter. Flour to make smooth, soft 

f cup brown sugar. dough. 

1 teaspoonful cloves, cinna- i cake of compressed yeast 
men and allspice. can be used. 

Mix warm milk, flour to make a soft dough, a quarter of a 
cup of old-fashioned yeast ; let it stand in a warm place till 



BREAD AND MUFFIN. J 315 

light. Then add butter, brown sugar, cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice, eggs, raisins and bread flour enough to make it 
smooth and soft. Dough kneaded well ; put in a warm place 
to rise; when light mould in a loaf; let rise again; when it 
has risen to the top of the pan bake in a moderate oven for 
one hour. This makes a large loaf. 

MTTPFINS 

1 pt. flour. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 pt. milk. 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 

2 teaspoonftils baking pow- ter. 
der. 2 eggs. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

Mix the dry ingredients and sift them well. Beat the 
eggs light and add the milk to them. Add this to the dry 
ingredients and add the melted butter. Beat the batter 
vigorously for a few seconds. Put on buttered muffin pans 
and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. For one dozen 
muffins. 

VIENNA BREAD 

1 cup milk, scalded. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup hot water. Flour to knead (about 4 

1 yeast cake. cups). 

(If to be set over night, use only half the yeast) . In three 
tablespoons milk and water dissolve the yeast thoroughly and 
add to remaining milk and water. Add salt and sufficient 
flour (warmed) to make a light dough (about four cups). 
Turn out and knead until thoroughly smooth and does not 
stick to the hands. Put in a greased basin, cover, and stand 
in a warm place to rise, for three hours. When risen, turn 
out. and cut into small rolls, knead each roll a little and put 
in a greased tin. Grease over tops with melted butter, cover 



31fl BREAD AND MUFFINS 

and stand in a warm place till twice their original size. 
Grease again and bake in a hot oven. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

1 egg, well beaten. 1 cake yeast. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. A little salt. 

^ cup milk. Flour to make light dough. 

Beat egg and salt, add sugar, dissolve yeast in a little milk, 
and add to egg and salt and sugar. Add flour and set to rise 
for an hour or an hour and one-half. Turn out and knead. 
Roll out with a rolling pin about one-half inch thick. Cut 
with a ring, brush over with water, fold in two and brush 
over with egg. Set to rise to twice original size and bake. 
Use same amount of yeast for twice the quantity. 

MUFFINS 

1| cups flour. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

A little salt. 1 cup milk. 

3 teaspoonfuls baldng pow- . Butter size of walnut, 
der. 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder together. Yolks of 
eggs well beaten, add milk, and melted butter. Then stir in 
flour; beat up whites of eggs and stir in, have tins well 
buttered. Bake in quick oven twenty minutes to one-half 
hour. 

SODA SCONES 

One pound sifted flour, two cups sour or buttermilk, one 
teaspoon soda, well rubbed through the flour, a little salt in 
the milk. If sweet milk is used, to one teaspoonful of soda 
put two of cream of tartar. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 317. 

SPOON BREAD 

1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. Cornmeal to make thin batter. 

Salt. 

Stir into milk enough white cornmeal to make a thin batter ; 
add baking powder, salt and eggs, the whites and yolks of 
which have been beaten separately. Pour the mixture into 
a baking dish, smooth the top with a broad, flat knife, and 
dot with pieces of butter. Bake and serve in the dish with a 
spoon. This is excellent with gravy for the nursery table. 

SCONES 

3 cups sifted flour. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 3 teaspoonfuls cold butter. 

der. 1 cup milk. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

To sifted flour, add baking-powder, and salt; then sift 
again. Mix with cold butter (cut in dice), and milk, add the 
flour to the mixture, handling as little as possible. Cut into 
three portions, make with a knife a + aiid bake twenty min- 
utes. On removing from oven rub over with a little butter. 

MARYLAND BISCUIT 

Two sifters of flour, two tablespoons of lard, one salt- 
spoon of salt. Mix to as stiff a dough as possible. Beat 
with sadiron or rolling pin until soft and blistering. Cut 
out and press the knuckles into each biscuit. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

HOT BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 

Two cups flour sifted well, four teaspoons baking-powder, 
one scant teaspoon salt, one tablespoon lard, one tablespoon 



318 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

butter, three-quarters cup milk (or water, or both), to a soft 
dough ; drop ou pan, or roll out. 

CORN MUFFINS 

2 eggs. 1 heaping tablespoonf ul 

1 teaspoonful melted butter. flour. 

1 tablespoonful brown sugar. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

2 teacups cornmeal. 1 cup milk. 

Beat eggs very light, add melted butter, brown sugar, corn- 
meal, and flour, to which add baking powder and a cupful of 
milk. Mix thoroughly, pour into greased muffin tins and 
bake in a quick oven. 

SPANISH BUN 

Two eggs, small cup sugar, butter size of a large egg, one- 
half cup milk, one-quarter teaspoonful cloves, three small 
teaspoonfuls cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one 
large cup of flour. 

MUFFINS 

2 eggs. f cake compressed yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuis butter. ^ pt. milk. 

A little salt. A little brown sugar. 

"Warm the milk and butter, dissolve the yeast in a little 
milk, beat the eggs well, enough flour to make a thick batter. 
Leave it to rise some hours. Put into well-buttered rings. 
Rise another hour. Bake twenty minutes in a good oven. 
Guaranteed for tea at seven ; set at two. 

SPANISH BUN 

f cup butter. 3 cups flour. 

1 cup sugar. 3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

4 eggs. der. 

1 cup milk. Flavoring as desired. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 319 

Bake in a moderate oven. Ice with the following: — The 
whites of three eggs well beaten with one and one-half cups 
of sugar. 

SPICE GEMS 



1 cup butter. 


1 egg. 


1 cup brown sugar. 


^ cup molasses. 


1 teaspoonful ginger. 


1 cup milk. 


^ teaspoonful each of other 


Flour to make stiff batter that 


spiees. 


will cling to spoon. 



Put in ingredients in order mentioned. Dissolve small tea- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda in a very little boiling water; 
add to the batter a pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly, and bake 
in buttered gem-pans in moderate oven. 

POPOVEHS 

One pint of flour, one pint of sweet milk, butter size of an 
egg, two eggs and pinch of salt. Bake in gem-irons, well 
heated, in hot oven. 

ADIRONDACK COENBREAD 

5 eggs beaten separately. | pt. cornmeal. 

1 pt. milk. 2 oz. butter, melted. 

^ pt. flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
1 tablespoonful salt and 1 der. 

of sugar. 

Eggs beaten separately. Add to milk, flour and cornmeal 
well mixed, the beaten yolks and melted butter; let it stand 
ten minutes. Then add whites, salt and sugar, baking 
powder. Mix thoroughly and bake in long biscuit tins. 

MILK MUFFINS 

1^ cups flour. A pinch of salt. 

1^ teaspoonfuls baking Enough milk to make a very 

powder. light batter. 



S20 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

Beat till it becomes a cream. Butter tHe tins well and 
drop the mixture into pans. Fill half full and bake fifteen 
minutes in a very hot oven. 



SPANISH BUN 

Four eggs, white of one left out for icing; three-quarters 
of a cup of butter, two cups of brown sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, two and a half cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, one dessertspoonful of cloves and cinnamon. 



SCOTCH CUERANT BUN (GLENOBCHY) 

1 lb. flour. 2 teaspoonfuls Jamaica pep- 

1 lb. sugar. per. 

•^ lb. orange peel. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

^ lb. almonds. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

2 lbs. currants. ^ teaspoonful black pepper. 
2 lbs. raisins. For paste : 

1 large cup of buttermilk. 1| lbs. flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls ginger. I lb. butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. ^ teaspoonful baking powder. 

This is all for cake proper. The fruit must be carefully 
prepared. Stone raisins, clean currants, blanch almonds; 
cut up orange-peel fine. Put all fruit, flour, sugar, and spices 
into a big basin; set aside and make paste, using the quan- 
tities given above. Eub butter into flour with baking pow- 
der, making into a stiff dough with water. Roll out thin. 
Grease tin, line it with paste; keep piece for top of bun. 
Now pour milk into flour and mix also fruit all well together 
with the hand. It must be just moist, not too thin ; pour all 
into the tin and lay on top sheet. Dot with fork; bake for 
three hours in moderate oven. 



BKEAD AND MUFFINS 321 

BAKED BROWN BREAD 

2 cups Indian meal. J teaspoonful salt. 

2 cups rye or Graham flour. Sour milk to make batter like 

f cup molasses. cake. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Have moderate oven; bake slowly four or five hours. 
Sweet milk or water can be used in making the batter, and 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted with the flour, in- 
stead of the soda. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

2 cups flour. ^ cup molasses. 

4 cups graham flour. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

2 cups warm milk. 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved 

1 cake compressed yeast. in water. 

JIake as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon. Let it rise 
over night. In the morning beat it a little, form in one or 
two loaves, put in pans, and when it rises again, bake one 
hour in a moderate oven. 

aUICK GRAHAM BREAD 

One pint sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, half a cup of 
molasses, half teaspoon salt. Stir in graham flour to make a 
stiff dough, and bake in a quick oven. A little shortening 
makes it more tender. 

INDIAN BREAD 

1 pt. Indian meal. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 qt. milk or water. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 pt. Graham flour. ^ cup yeast, or 1 cake. 
1 cup wheat flour. 

Scald Indian meal with milk or water; boiling milk and 
water can be used, half and half. When cool add : Graham 



322 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

flour, wheat flour, butter (melted), salt, yeast. Dissolve 
yeast cake in a cup half full of warm water. Mix at night 
and let rise. In tue morning stir down; put in a well-but- 
tered pan, letting it rise first for half an hour, and bake 
slowly. 

NEW ORLEANS COEN BREAD 

1^ pts. cornmeal. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

^ pt. flour. der. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 1^ pts. milk. 

2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful lard. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Sift together cornmeal, flour, sugar, salt and powder; rub 
in lard, cold; add eggs (beaten), and the milk; mix into a 
moderately stiff batter ; pour from bowl into a shallow cake- 
pan. Bake in rather hot oven thirty minutes. 



RYE BREAD 

1 cup yeast. 2 tablespoonfuls lard. 

1 pt. warm water. 2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar. 

2 pts. rye flour. 1 qt. warm milk. 

1 pt. wheat flour. 1 cup Indian meal. 

]\Iix together yeast, warm water, rye flour, flour, lard 
and brov/n sugar. Beat together, and let rise over night. In 
the morning mix with this: One quart of warm milk, one 
cup of Indian meal, enough rye flour to make into dough. 
Knead ; cover, set in a warm place to rise two or three hours. 
Knead again, and make into loaves. If there is the least 
tendency to sourness, add a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in 
warm water. It is best to always add this in warm weather. 
Rub soda smooth with a knife blade before measuring. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 323 

OATMEAL BREAD 

•J pt. oatmeal. 3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2^ pts. flour, der. 

■J teaspoonful salt. f pts. milk. 

1^ pts. salted water. 

Boil the oatmeal in water for one hour ; add milk ; set aside 
until cold. Then place in bowl, sift together flour, salt, and 
powder, and add. Mix together smoothly and deftly; bake 
in greased tin forty-five minutes, protected with paper 
twenty minutes. 

CREAM OF TARTAR AND SODA BISCUIT WITHOUT MILK 

1 qt. flour. 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls but- 1 teaspoonful soda, 
ter. -I teaspoonful salt. 

2 cups cold water. 

Mix cream tartar with flour and dissolve soda in water. 
Stir the dissolved soda in the cold water. Mix the dough 
very quickly, having it just stiff enough to handle and roll. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

BUTTERMILK BISCUIT 

1 pt. sour milk or butter- ^ teaspoonful salt. 

milk. -I cup soft lard. 

1 teaspoonful soda. Flour to make dough. 

Take buttermilk and stir in it a rounding teaspoonful of 
baking soda. Pour into the flour bowl where there has been 
made a hole in the middle of the flour. Add salt and lard. 
]\Iix with the fingers into a soft dough. Do not get in too 
much flour — it must be quite soft. Roll out one inch thick 
and cut; place not too close together on a tin and bake in a 
very hot oven. 



S24 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

GRAHAM BISCUIT 

1 pt. milk or water. Wheat flour to make thin bat- 

1 tablespoonful butter. ter. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Graham flour to make stiff as 
J cup or I cake of yeast. can be stirred with a spoon. 

(If dry yeast is used, take half cake of yeast dissolved in 
half cupful warm water.) Use enough of wheat flour to 
make a thin batter ; add the remainder of the ingredients and 
as much graham flour as can be stirred in with a spoon. Set 
away until morning. In the morning butter a pan, and with 
floured hands tear off bits of dough the size of an egg, roll 
lightly between the palms, put in the pan, let rise twenty 
minutes and bake in a hot oven. 

EGG ROLLS 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
1 small cup milk. der. 

1 tablespoonful lard or lard Enough flour to make stiff 
and butter. dough. 

Eoll out, cut desired size, bake in a hot oven. Nice biscuit 
for tea. If liked, add two tablespoonfuls of white sugar. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS, WITH BAKING POWDER 

3 tablespoonfuls baking pow- 1 egg. 

der. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 qt. flour. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful cold butter. 1 pt. cold milk. 

These are not the old original Parker House Rolls, but are 
quicker made: Sift baking powder with flour; put in cold 
butter; add well-beaten egg, sugar, and salt; rub well to- 
gether, and make into a dough, with a pint of cold milk. 
Roll out less than half -inch thick. Cut with a large biscuit- 



2 lbs. sifted flour. 


1 


1 pt. milk. 


1 


^ pt. water. 





BREAD AND MUFFINS 325 

cutter. Spread soft butter over the top of each, fold them 
together, and laj^ a little apart on greased tins. Brush over 
the tops with sweet milk and set immediately in a hot oven. 

VIENNA ROUS 

teaspoonful salt, 
compressed yeast cake. 

Bank flour around pan, one-half pint of milk, one-half pint 
of water ; mix to a thin batter, quickly add one-half pint of 
milk in which has been dissolved one teaspoonful of salt and 
one compressed yeast cake; leave remainder of flour against 
side of pan ; cover and keep free from air fifty minutes ; then 
mix in rest of flour until dough leaves side and bottom of 
pan; let stand for two and a half hours. Divide into one- 
pound pieces; sub-divide into twelve pieces. Flatten these 
small pieces of dough in squares three-quarters of an inch 
thick, fold their corners to the centre, pinch them down to 
hold them, and turn the little rolls thus made over on a board 
covered Avith cloth; let them stand for about ten minutes, 
turn them up again on a baking-pan and put into a hot 
oven to bake quickly, for about fifteen minutes; when half 
done brush them with milk, return them to the oven and 
finish baking. Some trouble, but the result is delicious. 

BREAD TWIST ROLLS 

Take enough bread dough in the morning for a tin of 
rolls. Work in one tablespoonful butter or lard. Divide 
the dough into parts the size of an egg, sub-dividing each 
of these into two unequal pieces. The largest piece form 
into a taper roll. Lay in a buttered pan. Do not let touch. 
Divide the smaller pieces into three pieces each. EoU these 
longer than the others and braid. Place a braid on the top 



S26 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

of each large roll, pinch the ends of the two together, wash 
over with milk and bake. 



FRENCH ROLLS 

2 cups sweet milk. | cup yeast or ^ cake dis- 

f cup butter and lard mixed. solved in ^ cup warm water. 
2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Flour to make stiff dough. 

Let rise over night. In the morning add well-beaten 
eggs, knead and let rise again. j\Iake into balls the size of 
an egg. Then roll each one between the hands to make a 
long roll (about three inches long). Place close together 
in even rows on well-buttered pans. Cover and let rise 
again. Bake in a quick oven to a delicate brown. Glaze 
with sweet milk before baking. 



HOT CROSS BUNS 

3 cups milk. 1 cup sugar. 

1 cup soft 3^east or -| nutmeg. 

1 cake compressed yeast 1 saltspoonful salt. 

dissolved in 1 cup water. Flour to make soft dough. 
^ cup melted butter. 

Mix milk, yeast and add flour to make a thick batter. Set 
as a sponge over night. In the morning add melted butter, 
sugar, nutmeg, grated, salt. Add sufficient flour to make a 
soft dough. Form into balls, flatten out with the hand, 
and mark deeply in the form of a cross with the back of a 
knife. Lay on buttered tins, an^i set to rise, and bake when 
light. Some cooks add a teaspoonful of coriander seeds. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 327 

OATMEAL PUFFS 

^ pt. oatmeal, | teaspoonful salt. 

^ pt. graham flour. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

^ pt. wheat flour. der. 

1 pt. sweet milk. 3 eggs, well beaten. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Sift together oatmeal, graham flour, wheat flour, one tea- 
spoonful sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder; add well-beaten eggs, one pint sweet 
milk. Mix into a thin batter, then half -fill well-greased 
gem pans, and bake in hot oven ten to fifteen minutes. 
Serve hot. 

YEAST RUSKS 

^ pt. sweet milk. 1 cup butter. 

1 teacup yeast or ^ cup sugar. 

1 compressed yeast cake. 1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 eggs. 'A little nutmeg. 

Mix milk, yeast, and two eggs with flour to stiff batter 
and raise. Then add butter, sugar, soda, little nutmeg; 
let rise again; then knead and mould into shape; let rise 
and bake ; when done wet top with eggs, sprinkle with sugar, 
and return to oven again for a moment. Serve hot. 

DRIED RUSKS 

Make as above with yeast. When ready to bake, roll out 
one inch thick. Cut in round cakes with a biscuit cutter, 
and arrange in a buttered baking-pan in two layers, one 
laid carefully upon another. Butter slightly between them. 
Let rise half an hour, and bake. When done, lift apart and 
throw loosely in the pan. Put in the oven when the fire is 
low, and leave all night; when sufficiently dried and 



328 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

browned, put in a clean muslin bag and hang up in the 
kitchen. It will be at least three days before they are ready 
to use. To serve, put as many as desired in a deep dish, 
and pour cold milk over them. When soft, drain and eat 
with butter or cream. Good with coffee, served dry; nice 
for invalids. Will keep for weeks. Rusks baked in the or- 
dinary form can be sliced lengthwise in two or three slices, 
after they have cooled, and dried in the same way. 



GRAHAM GEMS 

Mix graham flour with milk to form a stiff batter ; add a 
pinch of salt and one egg. Bake in gems, hot and well 
greased. To make strictly hygienic, mix the batter with 
w^ater instead of milk ; omit the egg, and add one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar or molasses to aid in browning the gems. A 
very quick oven must be used in this last w^ay. 

Butter the gem-pans carefully, first heating them on the 
stove. Put a little butter in the bottom of each one. It 
will melt and rise up on the sides as the batter is dropped 
in. Fill the pans two-thirds full, leaving room to rise. 
Bake about twenty minutes. 



APPLE GEMS 

4 sour apples. 1| cups eornmeal. 

1 egg. 1^ cups flour. 

^ cup molasses. i teaspoonful soda. 

Chop apples very fine ; stir into them beaten egg, molasses, 
eornmeal and sifted flour; dissolve soda in warm water and 
add it, using enough water to thin batter. Bake in but- 
tered gem-pans in a moderate oven. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 329 

GRAHAM GEMS (WITH BAKING POWDER) 

1 tablespoonful butter. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1 beaten egg. der. 

1 cup milk. Graham flour for good batter. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Bake as above. A change in this may be made by taking 
one cup of sour milk instead of sweet, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda. (Take a level teaspoonful of soda, flatten it 
over with a knife, and cut in smoothly in half.) Bake as 
before. Tear gems open with a fork, and butter. 

OATMEAL GEMS 

1 cup oatmeal. f tablespoonfuls soda. 

1 cup water. -^ tablespoonful salt. 

1 cup sour milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 cup flour. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Oatmeal soaked over night in one cupful of water. In 
the morning, add sour milk, flour, soda, salt, butter, and 
sugar. Mix, and bake in hot, well-buttered gem-pans. If 
too moist, add a little more flour. One cupful of sweet 
milk, and one teaspoonful of baking powder can be used 
instead of sour milk and soda. 

WHEAT GEMS 

1 qt. flour, . 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 qt. milk. 2 teaspoonfuls (small) but- 

4 eggs. ter. 

Sift the flour with the salt; stir the milk in smoothly. 
Beat the yolks and whites well and separately; stir first 
the yolks in the milk and flour, then the whites, then the 
melted butter. Half fill the gem-pans and bake in a deep 



330 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

pan or on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven for twenty- 
five minutes; if baked in earthen cups, forty-five minutes. 
Let them be thoroughly baked, or they will fall on being 
taken from the oven. 

POTATO SCONES 

Half a dozen large boiled potatoes, mash carefully and 
salt; knead potato with a little flour, form into scones an 
inch thick. Bake in moderate oven and prick to prevent 
blistering. Split and butter plentifully, and serve at once, 
piping hot. 

RICE MUFFINS 

1 scant cup boiled rice. 1^ cups flour. 

1 egg. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 tablespoonful melted but- 

A little salt. ter. 

1^ cups milk. 

COENMEAL MUFFINS 

Three-quarters of a cup of butter, two eggs, one cup of 
milk, three-quarters of a cup of eornmeal, two cups of flour, 
half a cup of sugar, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
a little salt. Bake in muffin tins. 

RYE GEMS 

One pint of warm milk with one teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in it, a pinch of salt, two eggs, well beaten. Rye 
flour enough to make a thin batter. Bake in gem-pans. 

MUFFINS 

Muffin rings should be well, greased, filled two-thirds full 
and baked upon a well-buttered griddle upon the stove, 
turning ring and all with a pancake shovel when one side is 
done to brown the other. Or the rings may be filled and 



BREAD AND JVIUFFINS 331 

set in a buttered pan and baked in the oven. Turning will 
not be necessary. Muffin rings two and a half inches across 
and one and a half inches deep are the most convenient size. 
Gem irons can also be used. Occasionally the same recipe 
can be dropped in spoonfuls on a griddle and baked, turn- 
ing over with a pancake shovel. This is nice when haste is 
necessary. Tear open and butter. 

MUFFINS, PLAIN 

3 cups flour. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 cup water. 3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

1| cups sweet milk. der. 

3 teaspoonfuls butter. 

Mix the sugar and shortening to a cream, add the liquid, 
then sift the flour and baking powder into it. Beat well, 
heat gem irons hot, grease, fill nearly full, and bake in hot 
oven twenty minutes. An egg is used sometimes. Sour 
milk and soda may be substituted, three-quarters teaspoon- 
ful of soda. 

RAISED MUFFINS 

4 cups flour. 2 eggs. 

1^ pts. milk. '^ teacup yeast. 

1 teaspoonful lard. 

Sift the flour into a pan with a pinch of salt; warm the 
milk and add lard, and stir into the flour. Beat the eggs 
light, add to the mixture. When thoroughly mixed add 
yeast. Set to rise about three hours before using, and when 
very light bake in muffin rings in a quick oven. These 
muffins must be served the instant they come from the oven. 
The muffin rings can be put on a griddle and baked also by 
turning the rings over with a pancake turner. If wanted 
for breakfast set over night. Tear the muffins open when 
done, put a bit of butter in each and keep warm until 



332 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

served. Never cut tliem. (araham mufiEiiis can be made the 
same way. 

ENGLISH BREAKFAST MUFFINS 
3 level teaspoonfuls butter. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
l.pt. milk. der. 

3 cups flour. 

Soften tbe butter, add to it the yolks of two eggs; beat; 
add milk; mix; add flour, salt and baking powder; beat 
well; stir in well-beaten whites, bake in quick oven twenty- 
five minutes in well-greased rings. 

WAFFLES 

The first essential to success in waffles is a well-fitting 
waffle-iron. The waffle-iron should fit tightly over the stove- 
hole. There should be no space in which to admit a 
draught of air around the waffle-iron to the fire; yet there 
should be space enough for it to turn easily. 

Heat the irons thoroughly before beginning to bake. 
They should be as hot as a griddle. Grease the waffle-irons 
with a piece of beef suet. Be sure that the side of the iron 
on which the batter is to be poured is extra hot, and as soon 
as the first waffles are put in it and the iron is closed, turn 
it. This method insures their baking on both sides. Fill 
two-thirds full of the batter. As soon as they are baked, 
lay them on a plate, butter them, lay another over them, 
and serve them. 

SAVORY FRIED BREAD 

Cut slices of stale loaf bread about half an inch thick, 
shape them like chops, soak the slices in a rich, well- 
seasoned vegetable stock until nearly saturated with it — 
don't allow them to become too soft — then dip in beaten 
egg mixed with a little milk and fry in butter until a nice 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 333 

brown. Serve with tomato sauce or around a dish of 
stewed tomatoes. 

PANCAKES 

2 cups sour milk. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls soda. 2 eggs. 

Mix all together and beat ; then take out a cupful and mix 
your flour in. Mix them thicker than you want them, then 
thin the mixture with the cupful taken out. Make batter 
quite thin. 

PANCAKES 

Nine eggs beaten very light, flour enough to make very 
stiff and two tablespoonfuls of ginger; a little salt. Milk 
enough to make a nice thin batter. 



CORNMEAL GEMS 

Cornmeal, three-quarters of a cup; flour, two cupfuls-; 
sugar, half a cupful; butter, half a cupful; two eggs; milk, 
one cupful; three tablespoonfuls baking powder, a pinch of 
salt. Bake in gem-pans. 



SPANISH BUN 

Yolks of 3 eggs. f cup milk. 

1 cup brown sugar. Flour to make batter. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. Icing: 

^ cup butter. Whites 3 eggs and 1 cup 

A pinch of salt. brown sugar. 

Bake in moderate oven. 

Icing for Spanish Bun. — Beat five minutes; spread on 
the cake; put in the oven and brown. 



334 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

POTATO CAKES 

1 doz. potatoes. A little salt. 

2 cups milk. Flour to make stiff enough to 
^ cup butter (melted), roll. 

1 cup yeast or | cake Fleiscliraann's. 

Boil and mash potatoes, add milk, salt, melted butter; 
when cool enough add yeast (home made, or one-half cake 
Fleischmann's) ; flour to make stiff enough to roll out and cut 
in squares. If wanted for tea make up in the morning and 
leave to rise. They bake about like biscuits. 

PAEKEK HOUSE ROLLS 

2 qts. flour. 1 yeast cake. 

1 pt. milk. 4 tablespoonfuls lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. A little salt. 

Mix at 9 o'clock with half of the flour; at 12 stir in rest 
of flour; at 2.30 knead well; at 3.30 roll about a quarter of 
an inch thick, cut and spread lightly with melted butter, 
and double over. Let them rise until 5.40, and then bake 
twenty minutes in quick oven. 

SALLY LUNNS 

1 qt. flour. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 
Butter size of egg. Little salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 cups milk. 

2 eggs. 

Stir well together ; add two eggs not beaten, two cups milk. 
Mix all. Bake in muffin rings. 

BUTTERmLK PANCAKES 

One quart flour, one egg, half cup of brown sugar, a 
little salt, one teaspoonful baking powder, four cups butter- 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 335 

milk. Mix well and drop with a spoon on a hot greased 
pan or griddle. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

Boil one cup of rice. Beat together three eggs, adding 
three cups of milk with the rice, and sift into this half a cup 
of flour to which a pinch of salt and baking powder has been 
added. Fry and serve immediately. 



FRUIT PIN WHEELS 

1 pt. flour. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 tablespoonful sugar, ^ pt. milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 1 cup currants. 
der. A little nutmeg. 

Mix sifted flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder. Rub 
in butter, and mix into a moderately stiff dough with half a 
pint of milk. Sprinkle the pastry board with flour, turn 
out the dough and roll it to a large square about half an 
inch thick. Spread a large spoonful of slightly melted 
butter on this, and then one cupful of Demarara sugar, and 
one cupful of well-cleaned currants, grate a little nutmeg 
over the sugar and currants and roll up just like a jelly 
roll or "rolypoly." Cut the roll into slices about three- 
quarters of an inch thick, and place them upon a well- 
buttered baking shell or tin, but do not let the slices touch 
each other. Bake in a very quick oven for ten or twelve 
minutes. 

POP OVERS 

One cup milk, one cup flour, one egg, little salt. Bake in 
muffin tins twenty minutes. 



336 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

CORN CAKE 

Large ^ cup corn meal. 1 egg. 

1 cup flour. 1 cup sweet milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
A little salt. ^ teaspoonful soda. 

Sift soda and cream tartar into flour. Bake twenty min- 
utes. 

GRAHAM GEMS 

One cup of milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of cream-tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, one 
and a half cups of Graham flour. Salt. 

WAFFLES 

Small cup and a half of milk, one cup of flour, one egg; 
mix in flour one teaspoon of baking powder, one-half tea- 
spoon of salt. Grease iron (special iron for waffles) well and 
have hot. 

BREAD STICKS 

(Very good and most digestible for dyspeptics.) 

Use the bread sponge once raised only, form into sticks 
four inches long and one-half inch thick and bake till hard. 
A bundle of these tied in white tissue paper with narrow 
white ribbon and given to a friend who is to take a journey, 
will be found most acceptable. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 337 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



338 BKEAD AND MUFFINS 

WEITTEX RECIPES 



BREAD AND MUFFINS 339 

WEITTEN EECIPES 



340 BREAD AND MUFFINS 

WKITTEN RECIPES 



TOAST 

Toast should be made of stale bread, or at least of bread 
that has been baked a day. Cut smoothly in slices, not 
more than half an inch thick; if the crust is baked very 
hard, trim the edges and brown very evenly, but if it hap- 
pens to burn, that should be scraped off. Toast that is to 
be served with anything turned over it, should have the 
slices first dipped quickly in a dish of hot water turned 
from the boiling tea-kettle, with a little salt thrown in. 
Cold biscuits cut in halves, and the under crust sliced off, 
then browned evenly on both sides, make equally as good 
toast. The following preparations of toast are almost all 
of them very nice dishes, served with a family breakfast. 

MILK TOAST 

1 qt. milk. 1 teaspoonful flour. 

1 tablespoonful butter. Slices toasted bread. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Put milk over the fire, put into it cold butter, stir a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of flour into half a gill of milk; as soon as 
the milk on the fire boils, stir in the flour, add salt; let all 
boil up once, remove from the fire, and dip in thin slices of 
toasted bread. Wlien all are used up, pour what is left of 
the scalded milk over the toast. Cover, and send to the 
table hot. 

CREAM TOAST 

1 pt. milk. 1 tablespoonful flour. 

Butter size of egg. 1 cup rich cream. 

1 egg. Slices of toast. 

341 



342 TOAST 

Heat to boiling, and add butter; stir flour smoothly into 
cream, and add some of the boiling milk to this; heat it 
gradually and prevent the flour from lumping; then stir 
into the boiling mill?, and let it cook a few moments; salt 
to taste. After taking from the fire stir in a beaten egg; 
strain the mixture on to toast lightly buttered. 

AMERICAN TOAST 

To one egg thoroughly beaten, put one cup of sweet 
milk, and a little salt. Slice light bread and dip into the 
mixture, allowing each slice to absorb some of the milk; 
then brown on a hot, buttered griddle or thick-bottom fry- 
ing-pan; spread with butter, and serve hot. 

NUN'S TOAST 

4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs. 1 teaspoonful flour. 

Butter size of egg. 1 cup milk. 

1 onion, chopped. Hot buttered toast. 

Cut eggs into slices. Put butter into a sauce-pan, and 
when it begins to bubble add a fine chopped onion. Let the 
onion cook c little without taking color, then stir in flour. 
Add milk, and stir until it becomes smooth, then put in the 
slices of eggs and let them get hot. Pour over neatly 
trimmed slices of hot buttered toast. The sauce must be 
seasoned to taste with pepper and salt. 

FRENCH TOAST 

Slice bread as for ordinary toast. Beat one egg well, add 
to it two cupfuls milk. Soak a slice of bread in the egg 
and milk, then fry it in butter, turn until nicely toasted on 
both sides, sprinkle white sugar over it. You may serve it 
separately, or place one slice above another. This is an im- 
promptu dessert easily and quickly made. 



TOAST 343 

HAM TOAST 

f cup boiled ham. 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls milk. Pepper. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Put milk and butter in a saucepan, let them come to a 
boil, and add the ham, pepper and eggs beaten light, stir 
constantly till it thickens. Serve on squares of buttered 
toast. 



344 TOAST 

WEITTEN RECIPES 



TOAST 345 

WEITTEN KECIPES 



346 TOAST 

WKITTEN RECIPES 



SANDWICHES 

The good housekeeper is neve-r at a loss for sandwich- 
filling. If her larder is depleted of meat, she turns to 
eggs; if the hens are not complaisant, there is still the 
worthy cheese, the goodly cucumber, the crisp lettuce, the 
homely cress. IMarmalade jam and jelly are generally to 
be secured, and honey is not always inaccessible. In short, 
the sandwich is a joy forever in the subtleness of its in- 
terior. Beautiful effects may be secured in coloring, pink, 
yellow, gi'een and red sandwiches being very easily ar- 
ranged. For a crimson sandwich there is mashed beetroot, 
for a Vermillion shade tomato catsup, for a deep or lighter 
yellow, pounded cheese or egg yolks, and for green, lettuce, 
cress, parsley and pistachio nuts. Salmon sandwiches or 
minced ham are pink, and cream cheese white. The lot 
may be combined in rainbow effect with great success. Of 
course one-day old bread of fine, firm texture is the first 
consideration. The best of butter, a little softened so as 
to spread perfectly, and the most careful cutting into shape 
and size exactly. A few tasty recipes for sandmches not 
quite common are: 

CHEESE AND HONEY 

Spread cream cheese on daintily cut and buttered slices, 
then spread scantily run honey on the cheese, or mix cheese 
and honey and spread together. Specially good for after- 
noon teas. 

HAM AND CHUTNEY 
One cup finely minced lean ham, one or two tablespoon- 
fuls chutney. Mix and spread on buttered slices of home- 
made bread. 

347 



348 SANDWICHES 

CHEESE AND MUSTARD SANDWICHES 

Pound and mix together one cup of broken cheese and a 
teaspoonful of made mustard. Add a tiny drop of cream 
if not soft enough. Salt and a dash of pepper. Spread 
on thin buttered slices. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Place leaf of lettuce, or portion thereof, between buttered 
slices, with a small dressing of mayonnaise, and keep very 
cold till ready to use. 

SAVORY SANDWICHES 

Pound hard boiled yolk of eggs, and if necessary pass 
through sieve. Add a seasoning of salt, pepper, French 
mustard and a little melted butter. Spread on thin 
crackers and serve with celery and ale or beer. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Mash cream cheese very fine. Chop olives also very 
small. Spread cheese on buttered bread and sprinkle 
chopped olives over it. 

CRIMSON SANDWICHES 

Take dark-colored, cold boiled beet-root and pass through 
a fine sieve. Flavor with a little tabasco sauce. Spread 
on very white buttered slices, so that the color shows well 
at edges. 

EASTLAWN OYSTER SANDWICHES 

Thin glutinous brown bread, well buttered. A cupful of 
oysters bearded and dried on a napkin. Cut oysters fine 
with knife (do not chop), season with cayenne, a little salt 
and squeeze lemon-juice over. Then spread sparingly on 



SANDWICHES 349 

Ihe brown bread and set on the ice till wanted. Very- 
wholesome and delicious for supper. 

GREEN SANDWICHES 

Chopped parsley and a finely cut white loaf. Butter 
slices and sprinkle with parsley, and pile sandwiches cross- 
wise on plates, decorate with a sprig of parsley in centre 
of pile. The parsley may be tossed in a very little onion- 
juice if relished. 

YELLOW SANDWICHES 

Yolks of eggs well pounded, color deeply with a trifle of 
annatto, and season with pepper and salt. Spread on thin 
buttered bread and serve on plate covered with a fringed 
yellow tissue paper mat. 

TOAST SANDWICHES 

Toast very carefully thin stale bread. Spread with 
cream while hot and place between thin slices of buttered 
bread. Some add a dash of nutmeg to the cream and 
sweeten it a very little. These sandwiches should be cut 
in oblong fingers, and are very good eating. 

SALMON SANDWICHES 

Canned salmon, pounded and mixed with a little mayon- 
naise; season with a dash of cayenne and spread on thin 
buttered bread. 

All meats, fish or game, used for sandwiches should be 
pounded or minced and spread, never sliced, and the dress- 
ing should be mixed with the meat and spread together, 

JAM SANDWICHES 

Bake very thin fingers of nice pastry and when cold 
spread daintily on the top of each finger a very little rich 



350 SANDWICHES 

jam or jelly. Serve laid in star fashion on a large fla£ 
plate. 

SMAKT SANDWICHES 

Mix with some smoothly pounded cheese a tablespoonful 
of AVorcester sauce, and spread on buttered slices. 

HABITANT SANDWICHES 

Prepare buttered slices from roll loaf. Pare large apples 
and slice through that each slice may fit on bread; remove 
the seeds and core, and after placing on lower slice sprinkle 
a trifle of cheese over the apple, or spread with a rich 
mayonnaise. This is a very tasty ''bonne bouche." 

CELERY AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Chop cheese and celery together fine ; toss in a little may- 
onnaise and spread between thin buttered slices. 

SWISS CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Procure porous, leathery Swiss cheese and shave into 
thinnest slices. Spread with a little French mustard and 
place between thin buttered bread. These sandwiches are 
not supposed to be "dainty," and should be cut a much 
larger size than others. 

WALNUT SANDWICHES 

Walnut meats with mayonnaise make very tasty sand- 
wiches, so do chopped peanuts or pistachio. The bread 
should be rather close-grained, home-made. For all the 
foregoing sandwiches the crust is always cut from the loaf 
first. In choosing what sandwiches to make for certain 
occasions the suitability should be considered. Cheese isn't 
nice for afternoon tea, nor jam sandwiches for supper. A' 



SANDWICHES 351 

meat sandwich should not be served with sweets, nor a 
highly spiced one at the end of a meal. 

EAW BEEF SANDWICHES 

For an impromptu supper with ale and celery men are very 
fond of the substantial above named. It is made of finely 
minced beef, seasoned well, and spread between rather 
thick slices of buttered bread. 

BOILED BKEAD AND BITTTEE 

Rolled bread and butter is much preferable to flat slices 
for afternoon teas, as ladies may hold it without spoiling 
dainty gloves. Butter the loaf — not a fresh one — having 
first decrusted it with a very sharp knife ; cut a slice as thin 
as possible and roll each slice with flat of hand — practice 
soon perfects. Pile the rolls log-fashion, or in a pyramid, 
on a doyley-covered bread plate; garnish daintily with 
parsley or cress. 

HAM SANDWICHES 

I cup butter. A little red pepper. 

1 tablespoonful mixed mus- A pinch of salt. 

tard. Yolk of 1 egg. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. 

Make a dressing of butter, mustard, salad oil, red or white 
pepper, salt, yolk of an egg ; rub the butter to a cream, add 
the other ingredients and mix thoroughly; then stir in as 
much chopped ham as will make it consistent, and spread 
between thin slices of bread. Omit salad oil and substitute 
melted butter, if preferred. 

HAM SANDWICHES, PLAIN 

Trim the crusts from thin slices of bread; butter them, 
and lay between every two some thin slices of cold, boiled 
ham. Spread the meat with a little mustard, if liked. 



362 SANDWICHES 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

Mince up fine any cold boiled or roasted chicken; put it 
into a saucepan with gravy, water or cream enough to 
soften it; add a good piece of butter, a pinch of pepper; 
work it very smooth while it is heating until it looks almost 
like a paste. Then spread it on a plate to cool. Spread it 
between slices of buttered bread. 

SAKDINE SANDWICHES 

2 boxes sardines. Salt and pepper. 

1 head lettuce. A little lemon juice. 

Take sardines and throw into hot water, having first 
drained away all the oil. A few minutes will free the 
sardines from grease. Pour away the water and dry the fish 
in a cloth; then scrape away the skins, and pound the 
sardines in a mortar till reduced to paste ; add pepper, salt, 
and some tiny pieces of lettuce, and spread on the sand- 
wiches, which have been previously cut. The lettuce adds 
very much to the flavor of the sardines. 

Or chop the sardines up fine and squeeze a few drops of 
lemon-juice into them and spread between buttered bread or 
cold biscuits. 

WATERCRESS SANDWICHES 

Wash well some watercress, and then dry them in a cloth, 
pressing out every atom of moisture, as far as possible; then 
mix with the cresses hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, and 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Have a stale loaf and some 
fresh butter, and with a sharp knife cut as many thin slices 
as will be required for two dozen sandwiches; then cut the 
cress into small pieces, removing the stems; place it between 
each slice of bread and butter, with a slight sprinkling of 
lemon-juice; press down the slices hard, and cut them 
sharply on a board into small squares, leaving no crust. 



SANDWICHES 363 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Hard boil some very fresh eggs, and when cold, cut them 
into moderately thin slices, and lay them between some 
bread and butter cut as thin as possible; season them with 
pepper, salt and nutmeg. For picnic parties, or when one 
is travelling, these sandwiches are far preferable to hard- 
boiled eggs au naturel. 

MUSHROOM SANDWICHES 

Mince beef tongue and boiled mushrooms together, add 
French mustard, and spread between buttered bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

1 hard-boiled egg. | teaspoonful mustard. 

I lb. cheese, grated. 1 tablespoonful melted but- 

^ teaspoonful salt. ter. 

^ teaspoonful pepper. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

Take the yolk of the egg and put it into a small bowl and 
crumble it down, put into it the butter and mix it smooth 
with a spoon, then add the salt, pepper, mustard, and the 
cheese, mixing each well. Tli^n put in the tablespoonful 
of vinegar, which will make it the proper thickness. If the 
vinegar is not relished, then use cold water instead. Spread 
this between two biscuits or pieces of oat-cake, and you 
could not require a better sandwich. Some people will 
prefer the sandwiches less highly seasoned. In that ease, 
season to taste. 

SAVORY SANDWICHES 

1 cup chopped chicken. ^ teaspoonful mace. 

1 slice boiled ham, minced. A few drops onion juice. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. A few spoonfuls oyster juice. 



354 SANDWICHES 

Mix chicken, boiled ham (minced), butter, mace, onion- 
juice into a soft paste with a few spoonfuls of oyster-liquor. 
Set in a saucepan of boiling water and stir until smoking 
hot. Set aside to get cold, and spread between thin slices 
of Graham bread. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES 

1 cup finely chopped tongue. 3 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 

^ cup chopped boiled ham. I teaspoonful made mustard. 

3 tablespoonfuls melted but- J teaspoonful paprica. 

ter. Yolk of 1 egg. 

Mix tonigue with ham, stir in melted butter beaten light 
with salad oil, mustard, and paprica. When the mixture is 
smooth and light set in a saucepan of boiling water over the 
fire and cook until it is thoroughly heated. Beat in the 
yolk of a w^hipped egg, take from the fire and set by until 
perfectly cold. Spread between thin slices of bread. 

CREAM-CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Rub together half a Philadelphia cream-cheese, a table- 
spoonful of butter, the powdered yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs; season with salt and paprica and spread this between 
crackers — saltines, or water-thin biscuits, or "sea foams." 
Home-made cottage cheese can be substituted for the Phila- 
delphia. 

PiaUANT SANDWICHES 

Cut bread very thin, buttering it lightly on the loaf. 
Upon each slice spread a filling made by mixing three hard- 
boiled eggs, minced extremely fine, with half their bulk of 
sharp green pickle chopped equally small. Season this 
compound with salt and pepper to taste, and work in a little 
butter. Lay another thin slice of bread, buttered side 
down, over this, and cut them into square and triangular 
sandwiches. 



SANDWICHES 355 

CELERY SANDWICHES 

With a sharp knife cut white tender celery into bits a 
quarter of an inch long until you have a cupful. Mix with 
it two minced eggs that have been boiled twenty-five min- 
utes, then left in cold water until they have cooled to the 
heart. Chop them fine and rub through a coarse sieve, 
work up well with the celery and beat in two tablespoon- 
fuls of mayonnaise dressing. Spread between thin slices of 
buttered bread. 

lETTTTCE SANDWICHES 

Cut thin slices from the end of a loaf of Graham bread, 
buttering before slicing. Cut these into rounds with a 
cake-cutter. Spread each slice with mayonnaise dressing 
and enclose between every two a leaf of crisp "heart" 
lettuce. Trim off the projecting edges of the leaves. 

CRESS SANDWICHES 
are made in the same way as lettuce sandwiches, above. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES 

Home made peanut butter for sandwiches demands fresK 
roasted peanuts made into a paste. First grind, or chop 
fine in the finest knife chopper. Mix this meat with a good 
oil mayonnaise. Spread it between folds of bread, like 
butter, for sandwiches. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES 

Crush the shelled peanuts divested of skins. Season with 
salt and mix to a paste with cream, or omit the salt and 
add to creamed butter. 



356 SANDWICHES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



SANDWICHES 357 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



358 SANDWICHES 

WEITTEN RECIPES 



SANDWICHES 359 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



EGGS AND OMELETS 
EGGS 

There are so many ways of cooking and dressing eggs 
that it seems unnecessary for the ordinary family to use 
only those that are the most practical. 

To ascertain the freshness of an egg, hold it between 
your thumb and forefinger in a horizontal position, with a 
strong light in front of you. The fresh egg will have a 
clear appearance, both upper and lower sides being the 
same. The stale egg will have a clear appearance at the 
lower side, while the upper side will exhibit a dark or 
cloudy appearance. 

Another test is to put them in a pan of cold water; those 
that are the first to sink are the freshest ; the stale will rise 
and float on top; or, if the large end turns up in the water, 
they are not fresh. The best time for preserving eggs is 
from July to September. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS 

There are several recipes for preserving eggs, and we 
give first one which we know to be effectual, keeping them 
fresh from August until spring. Take a piece of quick- 
lime as large as a good-sized lemon, and two teaeupfuls of 
salt; put it into a large vessel and slack it with a gallon of 
boiling water. It will boil and bubble until thick as cream ; 
when it is cold, pour off the top, which will be perfectly 
clear. Drain off this liquor, and pour it over your eggs; 
see that the liquor more than covers them. A stone jar is 
the most convenient — one that holds about six quarts. 

360 



EGGS AND OMELETS 361 

Another manner of preserving eggs is to pack them in a 
jar with layers of salt betAveen, the large end of the egg 
downward, with a thick layer of salt at the top; cover 
tightly, and set in a cool place. 

Some put them in a wire basket or a piece of mosquito 
net, and dip them in boiling water half a minute ; then pack 
in sawdust. Still another manner is to dissolve a cheap 
article of gum arabic, about as thin as mucilage, and brush 
over each egg with it; then pack in powdered charcoal; set 
in a cool, dark place. 

Eggs can be kept for some time by smearing the shells 
with butter or lard; then packed in plenty of bran or saw- 
dust, the eggs not allowed to touch one another; or coat 
the eggs with melted paraffine. 



OMELET 

(Half will make nice sized omelet.) 

6 eggs. 1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. A pinch of salt. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

Beat eggs separately. Add to beaten yolks the flour, 
baking powder, milk, salt. Put the whites in last; have 
frying-pan hot, and put in butter; when melted cook batter 
as quickly as possible after the whites are added; do not 
turn, but place in hot oven to cook top. 

OMELET 

Two eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two tea- 
spoons cornstarch, one-quarter teaspoon baking powder, 
three tablespoons of milk, season to taste ; stir in whites 
last. 



362 EGGS AND OMELETS 

ANCHOVY EGGS 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 oz. butter. 

1 teaspoonful anchovy A few grains cayenne, 

paste. Pepper and salt. 

Cut the eggs in half and take out the yolks very care- 
fully; cut a small slice from the end of the whites. Pound 
together the yolks, butter and anchovy paste; add season- 
ing and fill the whites with the mixture. 

GERMAN OMELET 

4 eggs. Salt (and celery salt if pre- 

4 teaspoonfuls cornstarch. ferred). 

I pt. milk. 

Beat eggs separately. Mix beaten yolks, milk, cornstarch 
and seasoning and divide into two parts. Pour half into a 
hot buttered frying-pan and cook slowly. Wlien beginning 
to set, put on the top of the omelet half the beaten whites, and 
when cooked turn over so that the white of the eggs is en- 
rolled in the omelet. Serve very hot, with brown side up ; 
proceed in the same manner with the remaining half. 

CHEESE OMELET 

One cup of milk, one tablespoonful of flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder in the flour, one tablespoonful of 
grated cheese, four eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 
one tablespoonful of melted butter; salt, pepper (cayenne), 
to taste. Half cook in the spider, then spread on the whites. 
Cook on the top of the stove for about ten minutes, then put 
in the oven to brown. 

SAVORY EGGS 

Savory eggs is a dainty made as follows : Boil some eggs 
quite hard, shell them, cut in halves and take out the yolks. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 363 

Pass through a sieve, mix with chopped ham, parsley, a 
little bit of onion, pepper and salt and a little cream. Then 
put back in the whites. Place on little rounds of bread and 
butter and serve cold. 

OMELET OF MUSHROOM OR POTATO 

Omelet of mushroom or potato chopped very fine is ex- 
cellent. ]\Iake an ordinary egg and cream omelet and as 
soon as it is set sprinkle the finely chopped scalded mush- 
room or hot-cooked potato cut fine, and fold the omelet over 
once and dish immediately. 

OMELET 

6 eggs. Pepper and salt. 

1 cup milk. 

Beat eggs very light, the whites to stiff froth, the yolks 
to a smooth, thick batter; add to yolks a small cupful of 
milk, pepper and salt, lastly pour in whites lightly. Have 
ready in hot frying-pan a good lump of butter. "When it 
sizzles pour in lightly your mixture, setting over clear fire; 
do not stir, but, as eggs set, slip broad-bladed knife under 
the omelet to guard against burning. If your oven is hot 
you may put your frying-pan into it as soon as the middle 
is set. Serve with brown side of omelet up. 

STEWED EGGS 

2 Spanish onions. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
4 hard-boiled eggs. f pt. milk or cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt, pepper and nutmeg. 

Fry onions, sliced in butter in a covered pan till very 
tender, but do not brown; add flour and mix well, then add 
milk and stir until, thickened ; season, add eggs cut in quar- 



364 EGGS AND OMELETS 

ters; simmer ten minutes and serve with garnish of fried 
strips of bread. 

EGGS STEWED IN CEEAM 

Boil one pint cream, add ten whole black peppers. 
When boiling add six eggs; let cook on top of stove five 
minutes, then bake in oven ten minutes. Add pinch of salt 
and serve from same dish. 

OYSTER OMELET 

Parboil a dozen oysters in their own liquor, skim them 
out, and let them cool; add them to the beaten eggs, either 
whole or minced. Cook the same as a plain omelet. 
Thicken the liquid with butter rolled in flour; season with 
salt, cayenne pepper and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
Chop up the oysters and add to the sauce. Put a few 
spoonfuls in the centre of the omelet before folding; when 
dished. Pour the remainder of the sauce around it. 

HSH OMELET 

Make a plain omelet, and when ready to fold, spread over 
it fish prepared as follows: Add to a cupful of any kind 
of cold fish, broken fine, cream enough to moisten it, sea- 
soned with a tablespoonful of butter; then pepper and salt 
to taste. Warm together, 

ONION OMELET 

Make a plain omelet, and when ready to turn spread over 
it a teaspoonful each of chopped onion and minced parsley; 
then fold, or, if prepared, mix the minces into the eggs 
before cooking. 

JELLY OMELET 

Make a plain omelet, and just before folding together, 
spread with some kind of jelly. Turn out on a warm 
platter. Dust it with powdered sugar. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 365 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



366 EGGS AND OMELETS 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



EGGS AND OMELETS '367 

WRITTEN KECIPES 



368 EGGS AND OMELETS 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



SALADS 

Everything in the make-up of a salad should be of the 
freshest material, the vegetables crisp and fresh, the oil or 
butter the very best, meats, fowl and fish well cooked, pure 
cider or white-wine vinegar — in fact, every ingredient first- 
class, to insure success. 



WINTER SALAD 

2 cups chopped cabbage. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 cup chopped boiled beets. 1 tablespoonful horseradish. 

1 cup chopped celery. 1 tablespoonful brown sugar. 

I teaspoonful dry mustard. 

Mix all together; break an egg in a sauce-pan, add half 
cup of vinegar, butter size of walnut; stir over fire till 
thick; do not boil; pour over salad, toss lightly, and serve 
cold. 

SALAD DRESSING 

4 eggs. "I teaspoonful pepper. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 1| cups cold water. 

1| tablespoonful mixed mus- f cup vinegar. 

tard. Butter size of egg. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 

Beat four eggs together, add sugar, mixed mustard, 
water, vinegar, butter melted, salt and pepper; cook over 
steam until it thickens. 

369 



370 SALADS 

MALAGA SALAD 

Celery, nut meats, and Malaga grapes make a delicious 
salad. Cut grapes in halves and seed them. Cover with 
dressing. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

To two cups shredded pineapple add one cup chopped 
celery and one sweet red pepper, cut into dice. For dress- 
ing use mayonnaise cream dressing. Serve very cold on 
lettuce hearts, garnished with nut meats. 

MAYONNAISE 

Yolks of three eggs, one gill of best Lucca oil, two table- 
spoons vinegar, a little salt. Stir yolks and salt in bowl 
with wooden or silver spoon; drop in oil and vinegar alter- 
nately in small quantities, always stirring vigorously. This 
mayonnaise should be thick and velvety if carefully mixed. 
Take half an hour to it. 



RUSSIAN SALAD 

All sorts of cooked vegetables, cut neatly in small dice, 
balls, cubes, no matter how many sorts of vegetables, in 
equal proportion. Some capers, pickled gherkins, cut into 
shreds; olives for garnish. Three parts of oil to one of 
vinegar, salt and pepper as desired. Toss vegetables in this 
dressing. The salad may be piled on a china stand, and 
its success will depend a good deal on the taste of the maker 
in garnishing it. Shreds of any cold game, fowl, smoked 
salmon, lobster coral, anchovy, olives, hard-boiled eggs, 
parsley, lettuce, or celery tops, with fancy stars of beet- 
root may be employed for producing a pretty effect. 



SALADS 371 

SALAD DRESSINa 

6 eggs. ^ cup vinegar. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. Dash of cayenne. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. Salt to taste. 
^ cup rich cream. 

Mix the vinegar, sugar, mustard, pepper, and stir in the 
egg well beaten ; will take nearly five minutes ; cook all in a 
double boiler, stirring constantly; when cold add the cream 
and salt. This makes a pint and will keep for weeks. 



LOBSTER SALAD 

One can of lobster, cut quite fine (not chop). Break the 
leaves from a head of lettuce, let stand in a pan of ice cold 
water till crisp ; lay the leaves on a board and shave fine ; 
just before serving mix the lettuce, lobster and half a cup 
of dressing together lightly with a fork; arrange some 
lettuce leaves on a dish and put the mixture in the centre. 
This is an exceedingly inviting dish. 



MAYONNAISE 

I pt. cream. ^ teaspoonful pepper. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 3| tablespoonfuls white wine 
^ teaspoonful salt. vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 

Mix beaten yolks with other ingredients, pour the cream 
in last, and put on the stove, stir all the time until it is 
well scalded, pour into 'a jug. Nice to eat with sliced 
tomatoes, salmon or lettuce. 



372 SALADS 

CHICKEN SALAD 

2 qts. cooked chicken (cut 4 tablespoonfiils vinegar, 
in dice). 2 tablespoonfuls oil. 

1 qt. celery (cut in |-inch 1 teaspoonful salt, 
pieces). ^ teaspoonful pepper. 

Place chicken in an earthen bowl, and season with vine- 
gar, oil, salt and pepper. Set away in a cold place for two 
or three hours. Put minced celery in the ice-box until 
serving time. Make the mayonnaise dressing. Mix the 
chicken and celery together, and add half the dressing. 
Arrange in a salad bowl or on a flat dish, and pour the re- 
mainder of the dressing over it. Garnish with white celery 
leaves. 

SALAD DRESSING 

Yolks 4 eggs. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

^ cup sugar. I cup cream. 

I teaspoonful each salt, pep- i teaspoonful cayenne, 
per and mustard. | pt. of vinegar. 

To the well-beaten yolks add sugar, salt, mustard and 
black pepper, cream and cayenne pepper. Beat all these 
thoroughly, then take vinegar and heat; when hot add but- 
ter. Pour this over the mixture, boil up and when cold 
put into large-mouthed bottles. This will keep many weeks 
in a cool place. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL 

Yolks of 11 eggs. li cups vinegar. 

3 teaspoonfuls salt. 9 teaspoonfuls sugar. 
3 teaspoonfuls mustard. 

In a double boiler put the yolks of eggs, salt, mustard, 
and sugar; stir well, then add vinegar (not too strong); 
cook till quite thick, stirring all the time. When suffi- 



SALADS 373 



ciently cooked take from the fire and beat with an egg- 
beater until cool. This will keep for weeks. When re- 
quired to use add cream to thin. 



OYSTER SALAD 

4 doz. or 1 pt. small oysters. 1 cup milk. 

^ pt. chopped celery. 3 eggs. 

For dressing: 1 teaspoonful mustard. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

1 tablespoonful flour (heap- 1 tablespoonful sugar. 

ing). A pinch of caj^enne. 
■J cup vinegar. 

Pick over and cut oysters in half, and parboil in the 
liquor and add chopped celery. Dressing. — Put butter into 
double boiler, melt without browning, add flour, and stir 
till smooth, add milk, beat eggs without separating, salt, 
mustard, sugar, vinegar and cayenne. Before adding vine- 
gar, mix dry materials, add to the milk, return to fire and 
cook for five minutes. 



TOMATO SALAD 

1 qt. can tomatoes. 1 teaspoonful celery salt or 

2 bay leaves. celery tops and salt. 
Juice ^ small onion. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 
A pinch of cayenne. f box gelatine. 

Put tomatoes, bay leaves, salt, celery, onion and pepper in 
pan on stove. Stew gently for three hours. Soak gelatine 
in one cup of cold water for half an hour, add it and one 
tablespoonful lemon juice to tomatoes, and strain into 
moulds. If tomatoes are very thick when opened, add a 
little water to them. 



374 SALADS 

TOMATO JELLY 

1 can tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. Salt and pepper. 

1 onion. 1 tablespoonful gelatine. 

1 bay leaf. 

Cook till tomatoes are soft, then strain. Dissolve one 
tablespoonful gelatine in half a cup of cold water, pour the 
tomatoes over the gelatine while hot. Pour into moulds and 
cool. Sauce for tomato jelly. — One tablespoonful grated 
horseradish, four tablespoonfuls whipped cream, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Salt and cayenne to taste. 

SALAD DRESSING 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar. ^ cup vinegar. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful mustard. Butter size of egg. 

^ cup milk. 

Take all ingredients and mix together (without vinegar), 
and put in double boiler and let it come to boil, stirring 
constantly. Then add vinegar and come to boil again. If 
too thick when cold add cream to thin it. "Will keep for a 
long time. 

BOILED SALAD DRESSING- 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1^ tablespoonfuls sugar. 
^ tablespoonful flour. Yolks 2 eggs. 

f teaspoonful salt. 1| cups vinegar. 

2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice. Dash of cayenne. 
1 teaspoonful mustard. 

Mix dry ingredients and add to yolks of eggs slightly 
beaten; beat butter and flour to a paste and put on stove 
till it bubbles, then add vinegar, stir in egg, take from stove 



SALADS 375 

and beat in as much whipped cream as is necessary to make 
desired consistency; add lemon last, slowly. 



POTATO SALAD 

One pint sifted hot potatoes, butter size of an egg, one- 
quarter teaspoon mustard, one-half teaspoon salt, shake of 
pepper, one egg lightly beaten. Cream together, then add a 
little vinegar or lemon- juice. 



POTATO SALAD 

Cut up five or six potatoes in small pieces and if you have 
fresh onion or cucumber mix a few pieces up with them (cut 
very finely). For the dressing take one cup vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, two eggs, one teaspoonful dry mustard, 
a little pepper and salt. Put on the stove and stir all 
the time till thick. If too thick add a little cream when 
cold. Pour over the potatoes an hour or two before using. 

CABBAGE AND CELERY SALAD 

Mix equal parts of fine cut celery and shredded cabbage 
together with one cup salad dressing. Mix half tablespoon 
each of salt and mustard and one cup sugar, add one egg 
slightly beaten and two and a half tablespoons butter. 

CELERY SALAD 

Two heads of celery, two sour apples, seven olives, all 
chopped up, not too fine. Mix a little mayonnaise dressing 
with it, pour over the top more mayonnaise dressing. Put 
chopped walnuts and capers over top. Hot-house cress 
around salad. 



376 SALADS 

SALAD DRESSING 

1 egg. 1 teaspoonful dry mustard. 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful olive oil. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 
3 tablespoonfuls cream. 

Beat all together, let come to a boil until of the consistency 
of thick cream-. Serve when cold. 

MAYONNAISE 

Yolks of two eggs, one-quarter teaspoon salt, dash of cay- 
enne, one cup of cold salad oil, added to the egg drop by drop, 
one tablespoon vinegar, one tablespoon lemon juice. If it 
curdles add it to another yolk. 

MAYONNAISE 

Yolk of 1 egg. ^ teaspoonful lemon juice. 

1 cup olive oil. Dash of cayenne. 

^ teaspoonful salt. i teaspoonful mustard. 

Let oil and egg be thoroughly chilled before beginning to 
make the mayonnaise. Have the yolk entirely free from any 
white of egg, add drop by drop the oil. Success depends on 
adding oil slowly at first, afterwards it can be added in large 
quantities ; when it has become a little thick alternate with a 
few drops of lemon juice ; if mustard is liked add a quarter 
of a teaspoon. 

OEANGE SALAD 

Several oranges. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

1 teaspoonful sugar. or vinegar. 

3 tablespoonfuls olive oil. 

Peel oranges, remove the inside skin, leaving the pulp as 
unbroken as possible. Make a very smooth French dress- 



SALADS 377 

ing as follows: Mix sugar, olive oil, vinegar or lemon juice 
in the order given, adding oil and vinegar slowly. Place a 
little of the orange on a crisp lettuce leaf, pour over a little 
of the dressing and serve. 

DRESSING FOR FRUIT SALAD 

1 cup sugar. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

^ cup water. Juice 2 lemons. 

Boil sugar and water, five minutes, then pour on to the 
beaten yolks of eggs, return to the fire and cook over hot 
water, stirring constantly until thickened. Cool and add 
juice of two lemons. One-half cup wine may be used in 
place of the lemon-juice, retaining one tablespoonful of 
lemon-juice. Pour over the fruit salad and serve after being 
thoroughly chilled. Bananas, oranges, pineapple and straw- 
berries make the nicest salad. 

SARDINE SALAD 

Mix sardines with equal quantity of mashed yolks of 
hard-boiled eggs. Arrange in nests of lettuce leaves and 
serve with mayonnaise. 

EGG SALAD 

Cut hard-boiled eggs in half, take out yolks, mash, add 
dressing and moisten. Season with celery salt, chopped 
mace, or parsley. Stuff whites with this, arrange in lettuce 
leaves and serve with mayonnaise. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD 

Parboil sweetbreads twenty minutes, drain and cool, cut 
in one-half inch cubes ; mix with celery or cucumber ; cut in 
small pieces, season with salt and pepper. Moisten with oil, 
and arrange on lettuce leaves or serve in cucumber shells. 



378 SALADS 

NUT SALAD 

Equal parts of English walnuts cut in pieces or chopped 
fine with celery and serve with mayonnaise. 

SALAD DRESSING 

4 eggs. 1 teaspoonful mustard. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Pepper to taste. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 2 cups milk or cream. 

1 teaspoonful salt. Vinegar to thicken. 

Boil eggs hard ; take the yolks and rub smooth with melted 
butter, salt, mustard, sugar, and pepper to taste. Add to 
this mixture milk or cream, stirring it in gradually, and 
enough vinegar to thicken it. Boil all together, stirring 
briskly — do not mind if it curdles — go on stirring till it gets 
quite smooth. If no cream is used a tablespoonful of corn- 
starch dissolved in the milk will help to thicken it to the 
consistency of batter. Use whites of eggs to garnish salad. 
This is excellent and never fails. 



FRUIT SALAD 

Equal quantities of grape fruit or oranges, apples and 
celery. Peel the grape fruit or oranges, carefully removing 
all the bitter white skin; cut the pulp with bananas and 
apples into small dice, and cut the celery fine as for other 
salads; put the orange and apple together; the latter will 
absorb the juice of the orange. Set all on ice — these fruit 
salads must be ice-cold. When it is time to serve mix the 
fruit and celery together, put into a salad bowl, cover with 
cream dressing into which has been stirred a third as much 
cream as there is dressing, and add a little more salt to it in 
mixing. Serve in a bed of tender lettuce leaves. 



SALADS 379 

NORMANDY SALAD 

One pint of French peas, one pint of English walnuts, 
half a head lettuce and four nasturtiums. Use the small 
"French peas. Pour them into a colander, rinse in cold water, 
drain and dry on a towel. . Blanch the walnuts by letting 
them remain in boiling water for a few minutes, then cut 
into small pieces the size of the peas. Sprinkle them with 
salt, and mix together, with enough mayonnaise to hold to- 
gether. Arrange on lettuce leaves, with bright yellow nastur- 
tium here and there between the leaves. Then cover the 
nuts and peas with the remainder of the mayonnaise. 

ORANGE AND WALNUT SALAD 

Slice four peeled oranges lengthwise, dress with three or 
four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and one tablespoonful of 
lemon-juice. Arrange slices in a mound upon a layer of let- 
tuce leaves. Dress one cupful of sliced nut meats with one 
tablespoonful of oil, a dash of salt and half a teaspoonf ul of 
lemon juice, and dispose upon the centre of mound. Mix to- 
gether before serving. 

SWEET POTATO SALAD 

Three large sweet potatoes, two stalks celery and French 
dressing, olives and parsley. Boil the potatoes and cut into 
squares; add the celery cut small. Mix, and pour over 
French dressing. Garnish with olives and parsley. 

BEAN SALAD 

10 onions. 2 tablespoonfuls salad oiL 

1^ pts. cold cooked beans. 1 teaspoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 1 scant cup vinegar. 

1^ teaspoonful salt. 



380 SALADS 

Peel and slice onions very fine. Pour cold water over 
them and press hard to remove the strong taste. Drain well. 
Have ready in the salad bowl cold boiled or baked beans, 
preferably the latter. Mix with them the minced onion, salt, 
pepper, salad oil, sugar and vinegar. Toss and mix with a 
fork lightly, but thoroughly, and garnish with olives, two 
hard-boiled eggs sliced and lettuce leaves. 



SALAD DRESSING 

1 egg. 1 teaspoonful mustard. 

1 tablespoonful brown sugar. 1 teaspoonful butter. 
^ cup vinegar. A little salt and pepper, 

f cup milk. 

Beat egg, add dry ingredients and melted butter. Mix in 
gradually half a cup of vinegar and three-quarters of a cup 
of milk, then boil till thick. (Have quite cold before using.) 



MAYONNAISE 

4 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

^ cup malt vinegar. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

^ teaspoonful cayenne. 2 cups cream. 

2 teaspoonfuls mixed mus- 4 tablespoonfuls tarragon 

tard. vinegar, 

f cup butter. 

Cook the eggs, vinegar and dry ingredients together in a 
double boiler till they form a thick custard. When cold add 
two cups cream and four tablespoons tarragon vinegar added 
drop by drop. Beat for ten minutes. Will keep a fortnight 
or longer in a cool place. 



SALADS 381 

OYSTEE SALAD 

50 small oysters. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 1 pt. chopped celery. 

1 tablespoonful olive oil. 1 cup mayonnaise. 
^ teaspoonful pepper. 

Let oysters come to a boil (no more) in their liquor. Skim 
and strain. Season the oysters with vinegar, oil, pepper, 
salt, and place on ice for two hours. Cut finely the tender 
part of celery. When ready to serve mix this with the 
oysters and mayonnaise dressing. Arrange in bowl, garnish 
with olives and celery tips. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOITT EGGS 

Butter size of walnut. 1 teaspoonful mixed mustard. 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar. | cup cream or milk. 

1 saltspoonful salt and pep- | cup vinegar. 
per. 

Put into a saucepan, butter, sugar, salt and pepper, mus- 
tard, cream or milk, and vinegar, thicken with a little corn- 
starch. 

CHIFFONADE SALAD 

2 large green peppers. 3 large tomatoes. 
1 grape fruit. 1 head lettuce. 

Cut open peppers, remove the seeds and veins and cut into 
shreds; drop into boiling water for one minute; drain and 
cool. Cut a grape fruit. Take out the pulp with a spoon 
and cut into bits. Peel tomatoes, and cut into small pieces. 
Shred lettuce finely. Marinade each article separately with 
a French dressing. Put the grape fruit pulp in the centre 
of the salad dish and arrange around it the prepared peppers, 



382 SALADS 

tomatoes and lettuce in such a way as to display the different 
colors to the best advantage. 



WALDOKF SALAD 

One quart apples cut in dice, one quart celery same size. 
Dress with rich creamy mayonnaise and serve very cold, on 
lettuce leaves. 

GHEKKIN SALAT (GERMAN) 

Peel medium-sized cucumbers. Slice across as thin as 
possible into salted water, in which leave for several hours. 
Take out and drain, place in towel and wring gently until 
dry. Turn into salad dish and toss lightly in French dress- 
ing (oil, vinegar, salt and pepper), and sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley. 



HEISSER-KRAITT SALAT (GERMAN) 

Slice as fine as possible half a hard crisp cabbage. Should 
be in shreds; put in frying-pan with butter and cook 
slightl}^, turning carefully. Pour over it vinegar and 
water and cover closely until cooked. Serve hot with boiled 
pickled pigs' knuckle that has been carefully and slowly 
cooked until almost jellied. 

KARTOFFEL SALAT (GERMAN) 

1 qt. cold boiled potatoes, 1 tablespoonful minced pars- 
diced, ley. 

2 onions, sliced. Salad dressing of oil, vinegar, 

salt and pepper. 

Mix in salad bowl, dressing with vinegar, oil and season- 
ing of salt and pepper. 



SALADS 8S3 

BEET SALAD 

Boil half a dozen young beets, chop fine and pour over 
them warm vinegar with a little sugar in it. Slice very thin 
a couple of bunches of chives, and chop fine three stalks of 
celery. This will serve twelve people. In serving make a 
foundation of celery leaves, and on it place first the thin 
slices of chives, then a layer of beets, then chives, and 
sprinkle over them the chopped celery. Pour over all a 
salad dressing, 

MAYONNAISE 

1 teaspoonful mustard. Yolk of 1 egg. 

J teaspoonful salt. Dash of cayenne, 

f cup olive oil. 

Mix well. Then add drop by drop three-quarters cup of 
olive oil, beating constantly during mixing. If it grows too 
thick add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. If it is to be used 
immediately add one-half cup of whipped cream. 



884 SALADS 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



SALADS 385 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



SALADS 

WBITTEN RECIPES 



SALADS 387 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



PICKLES 

Pickles should never be put into vessels of brass, copper or 
tin, as the action of the acid on such metals often results in 
poisoning the pickles. Porcelain or granite-ware is the best 
for such purposes. 

Vinegar that is used for pickling should be the best cider 
or white-wine, and should never be boiled more than five or 
six minutes, as it reduces its strength. In putting away 
pickles, use stone or glass jars; the glazing on common earth- 
enware is rendered injurious by the action of the vinegar. 
When the jar is nearly filled with the pickles, the vinegar 
should completely cover them, and if there is any appear- 
ance of their not doing well, turn off the vinegar, cover with 
fresh vinegar and spices. Alum in small quantities is useful 
in making them firm and crisp. In using ground spices, tie 
them up in muslin bags. 

To green pickles, put green grape-vine leaves or green 
cabbage leaves between them when heating. Another way 
is to heat them in strong ginger tea. Pickles should be kept 
closely covered, put into glass jars and sealed tightly. 

"Turmeric" is India saffron, and is used very much in 
pickling as a coloring. 

A piece of horse-radish put into a jar of pickles will keep 
the vinegar from losing its strength, and the pickles will 
keep sound much longer, especially tomato pickles. 

TOMATO BUTTER 

10 lbs. tomatoes. 4 large apples. 

1 qt. vinegar. 1 tablespoonful salt. 

3 lbs. brown sugar. i teaspoonful cayenne. 



PICKLES 389 

1 tablespoonful whole cloves. 1 tablespoonful whole al- 
1 tablespoonful whole cinna- spice, 
mon. 

Peel and cut tomatoes, tie spices in muslin bag and boil 
three hours. 

CHUTNEY 

1 lb. apples. ^ teaspoonful red pepper. 

8 oz. tomatoes. 2 oz. ginger. 

^ oz. salt (or 1 oz.). 2 oz. garlic. 

8 oz. sugar. 2 oz. onions. 

8 oz. raisins. 3 pts. vinegar. 

Chop apples, onions, tomatoes, and raisins ; mix spices and 
vinegar with them; put in a warm place and stir twice a 
day for a fortnight. 

TOMATO CATSUP 

I bu. tomatoes. i lb. whole black peppers. 

6 onions. ^ lb. whole allspice. 

1 qt. vinegar. 1 oz. whole cloves. 

■| teacup salt. 1 oz. whole cinnamon. 

2 lbs. sugar. 1 teaspoonful cayenne. 

Cut up tomatoes and onions and boil soft, strain, tie all 
spices in a bag and boil together three hours. Bottle and 
cork while hot. 

CHILI SAUCE 

48 good-sized tomatoes. 6 green peppers. 

8 onions. 2 tablespoonfuls allspice. 

16 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 

4 cups vinegar. 2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 

4 tablespoonfuls salt. 2 tablespoonfuls mustard. 

Have spices ground. Peel tomatoes, and onions, stem 
peppers; chop together and boil till onions are soft. 



StO PICKLES 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Twenty pounds tomatoes (peeled), one quart vinegar, 
three-quarters of a pound of salt, one ounce cloves, two ounces 
allspice (whole), one-half ounce cayenne pepper, one pound 
sugar, two ounces garlic (peeled), one ounce black pepper 
(whole), four or five pounds apples. Boil five hours. 

TOMATO CHUTNEY 



4 lbs. ripe tomatoes. 


8 oz. salt. 


4 lbs. sour apples. 


3 oz. ginger. 


2 lbs. raisins. 


2 oz. allspice. 


2 lbs. brown sugar. 


1 oz. cayenne. 


4 small onions. 


1 nutmeg grated. 


Juice of 1 lemon. 


2 qts. vinegar. 



Chop tomatoes, apples, onions and raisins very fine; add 
everything else and boil one hour slowly ; bottle when cold. 

CHUTNEY 

8 lbs. tomatoes. 1 lb. raisins. 

3 lbs. onions. 2 lbs. sugar. 

3 pts. vinegar. 2 oz. ground ginger. 

2 doz. small peppers. ^ lb. mustard seed. 
1 lb. prunes, stoned. 1 cup salt. 

Chop well, cook slowly, stir often and seal well. 

CRAB-APPLE PICKLE 

1 pk. apples. •! oz. cinnamon. 

3 lbs. sugar. ^ oz. cloves. 

2 qts. vinegar. 

Boil sugar, vinegar, spices, tying spices in muslin bag; 
prepare apples by sticking three or four cloves in each apple ; 
steam until soft ; then put them in syrup and let simmer for 



PICKLES 391 



fifteen minutes; then take apples out and let sjTup boil for 
ten minutes longer. This recipe is good for peaches, plums 
and pears. 

TOMATO lOJSTAED 



1 pk. tomatoes. 


1 tablespoonful black pepper. 


3 red peppers. 


1 oz. ginger. 


5 onions. 


1 oz. cloves. 


i lb. salt. 


"1 oz. mace. 


1 pt. vinegar. 


^ lb. mustard. 



Boil tomatoes with peppers and onions for an hour. Then 
strain through a colander and add salt, black pepper, ginger, 
cloves, mace (ground). Boil for one hour; when cold add 
mustard and vinegar. 

BENGAL CHUTNEY 

I lb. garlic, chopped. ^ lb. ground ginger, 

^ lb. onions, chopped. 1 oz. cayenne pepper. 

^ lb. raisins, chopped. 3 pts. vinegar. 

1 lb. brown sugar. 13 large sour apples peeled 

I lb. salt. and cored. 

■J lb. ground mustard. 13 large tomatoes. 

Cook apples and tomatoes together and mash. Mix all to- 
gether. Cook till thoroughly soft, bottle. This makes a 
great quantity. 

PICKLED MJSHROOMS 

Take the small buttons and rub them very clean with a 
flannel and some vinegar, then put them in a dish with 
a little salt over them to draw the liquor from them. When 
this is done put them into a kettle with their own liquor and 
sufficient good vinegar to cover them, also some mace, cloves 
and black pepper to suit taste. Boil gently for a few min- 
utes, then bottle and cork tightly. 



Sg2 PICKLES 

CKAB-APPLE CATSUP 

3 lbs. apples (which have 1 tablespoonfiil cloves. 

been cored), 1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

If lbs. sugar. 1 tablespoonful pepper. 

1 qt. vinegar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

Scald the fruit, run it through the sieve, then mix all in- 
gredients together and boil until it is almost as thick as jam. 

SPICED GRAPES 

7 lbs. grapes. 1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

5 lbs. sugar. 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 cup vinegar. 1 teaspoonful allspice. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

Squeeze pulp from skin, boil pulp and strain out seeds, 
then boil again with skins and other ingredients until it 
jellies. 

YELLOW PICKLE 

3 large cauliflowers. 6 tablespoonfuls mustard. 
60 small cucumbers. 3 qts. cider vinegar. 

1 qt. string beans. 1 oz. turmeric. 

4 green peppers. 2 qts. white onions (pickles). 
1^ cups sugar. 3 qts, green tomatoes. 

•| cup flour. 

One quart glass self-sealing jars are the best for pickles. 
A piece of clean horseradish root laid on the top of the pickle 
in each jar makes it doubly sure it will keep well, almost 
indefinitely. Cut up tomatoes, cutting out all imperfections ; 
cut up with them the four peppers, throwing away the seeds. 
Put these in a strong brine for an hour, then drain and put 
on to cook till tender in fresh, hot water. In another kettle 
put the cauliflowers, broken into small pieces; in another 
kettle put the peeled onions. When all are well done drain. 



PICKLES 393 

Then put in the vinegar in a large kettle. Take the mustard, 
flour and turmeric, and stir into a smooth paste, with a little 
of the vinegar, then stir into the rest of the vinegar and 
bring it to a boil. Then put all the ingredients into this 
liquid. Cook slowly an hour or more, stirring often. It 
might require more salt, which could only be learned by tast- 
ing. It should be thick and of an even consistency. 

FRENCH PICKLE 

1 pk. green tomatoes. 2 small tablespoonf uls each of 

1 cup salt. ground allspice, mustard 
3 qts. vinegar. seed, ginger, mustard and 

2 qts. water. cloves. 

2^ lbs. brown sugar. 2 large tablespoonfuls cinna- 

mon. 

Slice green tomatoes, sprinkle with one cup of salt, and 
leave over night. Then drain well and add two quarts of 
water and one of vinegar. Boil fifteen minutes. Drain 
again and add two quarts of vinegar, brown sugar, mustard 
seed, allspice, ginger, mustard, cloves, two large tablespoon- 
fuls of cinnamon. Mix, and boil fifteen minutes. 





CHOW-CHOW 


1 qt. green tomatoes. 


1 qt. string beans. 


1 qt. gherkins. 


1 large cauliflower. 


1 qt. ripe cucumbers. 


6 green peppers. 


1 qt. celery. 


6 tablespoonfuls mustard. 


3 cups vinegar. 


4 tablespoonfuls flour. 


3 cups brown sugar. 


3 tablespoonfuls turmeric, 


1 qt. white onions. 





Chop all very fine and cover with a good sprinkling of salt 
and water over night. Bring to a boil and drain. Boil to- 



394 PICKLES 

gether vinegar, sugar, mustard, flour and turmeric. Pour 
boiling hot over vegetables and bottle, 

MUSTARD PICKLES 

2 qts, little onions. 2 cups sugar. 

3 qts. cucumbers. ^ cup flour. 

3 heads celery. 2 cups mustard. 

3 heads cauliflower. ^ oz. turmeric. 

4 green peppers (chopped). A little curry powder. 
3 qts. vinegar. 

Cut all up and put in brine twenty-four hours. Put on the 
stove and let come to a boil in the brine, remove and drain 
perfectly dry. To boiling vinegar add sugar, flour, mustard, 
turmeric, with a little curry powder mixed in. Pour over 
vegetables. 

MUSTARD CATSUP 

1 pk. tomatoes. i lb. salt. 

1 lb. brown sugar. 1 oz. ginger. 

^ lb. mustard. ^ oz. cloves. 

3 red peppers. ^ oz. mace. 

1 pt. cider vinegar. ^ teaspoonful cayenne. 

Put tomatoes in oven until hot, and squeeze through a 
strainer, and then add other ingredients. Put spices, which 
must be whole, in a bag; add a tablespoonful of cornstarch 
to mustard, which makes it thicken. Cook for an hour. 
Count from time it begins to boil. 

GRAPE CATSUP 

Take seven pounds of grapes, squeeze out the pulp, and 
heat up without any water; just let it come to a boil, then 
put through a sieve. Take skins and pulp, and three and a 
half pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, good tablespoonful 



PICKLES 395 

of ground cloves and cinnamon. Cook till thick; watch it 
constantly. 

SWEET CHILI SAUCE WITH CELERY 

1 pk. ripe tomatoes. -J cup salt (small), 

4 bunches celery. ^ lb. whole mixed spioe. 

3 cups vinegar. 1 teaspoonful pepper. 

3 cups brown sugar. 1 teaspoonful mustard. 

Tomatoes peeled and sliced, and celery chopped fine; add 
vinegar, brown sugar, salt, mixed spices tied in a bag, pepper 
and mustard. Boil all together one hour or longer. 

CELERY SAUCE 



24 ripe tomatoes. 


1 red pepper. 


6 heads celery. 


1 cup sugar. 


6 small onions. 


1 qt. vinegar. 


1 cup salt. 


1 tablespoonful mixed spice. 



Peel tomatoes and onions, chop very finely the celery, pep- 
per, tomatoes and onions, add the vinegar, sugar, spice, etc. 
Boil gently for three hours. 

CHILI SAUCE 

12 ripe tomatoes. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 large onions. 4 teaspoonfuls salt. 

4 green peppers. 

Chop onions and peppers very fine. Boil one hour and a 
half ; add one teacup of vinegar half an hour before taking 
from the fire. Bottle, cork closely. Keep in the coolest 
part of the cellar. 

PICKLED PEACHES 

Rub fruit with coarse cloth, stick yne clove and one bit 
cinnamon into each; pack closely in a stone crock. Boil in 



896 PICKLES 

vinegar enough to cover fruit, four, or if you like them, 
sweeter, six pounds sugar to each gallon vinegar. Add cloves, 
cinnamon stick and a small quantity of mace tied in a thin 
muslin bag. When all are boiled for five or seven minutes, 
pour over the peaches and cover closely. Boil again the two 
days following and pour over fruit while boiling hot. Cover 
close and keep in a cool cellar. 

MUSTARD DRESSING 

One large tablespoon of mustard, one large tablespoon of 
cornstarch, one-half cup sugar, one egg. Add one cup of 
vinegar, and one teaspoon of salt. 

TOMATO MUSTARD 

1 pk, ripe tomatoes. 1 oz. ginger. 

6 red peppers. 1 oz. allspice. 
i lb. salt. 1 oz. mace. 

3 tablespoonfuls black pep- | oz. cloves, 
per. 2 onions. 

■| pt. vinegar. A few cloves of garlic. 

i lb. mustard. 1 tablespoonful red pepper. 

Take out stalks of tomatoes and boil for one hour with red 
peppers. Then strain through a colander and add salt, black 
pepper, ginger, allspice, mace, cloves, and garlic, two onions. 
Boil for one hour; when cold add vinegar, red pepper, and 
mustard. 

SPICED GRAPES 

7 lbs. grapes. 4 teaspoonfuls ground cinna- 
1 pt. vinegar. mon. 

4 lbs. sugar. 5 teaspoonfuls ground cloves. 

Kemove skins of grapes and boil pulp till soft. Strain 
through a bag or fine colander, then add skins and ingredi- 



PICKLES 397 

ents, and boil two hours. Then bottle. The boiling process 
is to leave out the seeds. This is a delicious relish for cold 
meat. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

8 lbs. ripe tomatoes. 1 lb. brown sugar. 

1 lb. onions. 1 cup suet. 

1 lb. apples. ^ oz. red pepper. 

1 lb. raisins. 1 qt. vinegar. 

2 lemons. 

Chop all fine together; add sugar, suet, pepper and vine- 
gar. Boil two hours. 



PICKIEB LEMOITS 

2 doz. lemons. ^ oz. Jamaica long pepper 

1 oz. whole mace. and cayenne pods, 

1 oz. nutmeg, sliced. ^ oz. shallots, pared. 

■| oz. cloves. A piece of horseradish. 

2 oz. ginger, bruised. 3 qts. vinegar. 
^ oz. peppercorns, white. 

Take lemons, grate off the rind, prick them, and put them 
in a dish so as not to touch each other ; cover them with salt, 
and turn them every day for a month, then wipe them dry 
and let them remain within the air of the fire three or four 
days to dry. Take mace, nutmeg, cloves, ginger, white pep- 
percorns, Jamaica long pepper and cayenne pods; tie them 
in two or three separate muslin bags ; shallots, pared ; a piece 
of horseradish. Put the lemons and seasoning in well glazed 
jars. Boil vinegar and pour it on the lemons while hot. 
Let the jars remain near the fire a few days, shaking them 
gently each day. Look at them in a few weeks to see if they 
require more vinegar. Better kept some time before using. 



3§S PICKLES 

CHUTNEY 

Eight apples (chopped fine), eight peppers (four red and 
four green), twelve tomatoes (peeled), eight large onions, 
quarter of a pound of salt, one pound of brown sugar, half 
a pound of raisins (chopped), two quarts of vinegar, one 
ounce of ginger, all chopped fine and boiled till thick. 

RIPE TOMATO SOY 

1 pk. tomatoes, peeled and 1 tablespoonful ground mus- 

sliced. tard. 

8 large onions, sliced. 1 tablespoonful ground all- 

1 cup salt. spice. 

2 qts. vinegar. 1 tablespoonful ground gin- 
2 lbs. sugar. ger. 

I lb. mustard seed. 1 teaspoonful cayenne pep- 

1 tablespoonful ground per. 
cloves. 

Put tomatoes and onions in alternate layers, cover with 
salt and let stand twenty-four hours ; drain off all the liquor, 
then add vinegar, ground mustard, ground ginger, ground 
cloves, ground allspice, cayenne pepper. Stew slowly two 
or three hours, and when nearly done add brown sugar and 
mustard seed. 

CHOW CHOW 

2 heads cabbage. 6 roots of celery. 
2 heads cauliflower. 2 green peppers. 
2 qts. onions. 2 qts. vinegar. 

2 qts. green tomatoes. ^ lb. mustard. 

1 small cup sugar. 1 oz. turmeric. 

2 cucumbers. Salt to taste. 

Chop fine ; boil in just enough water to cover until moder- 
ately soft; strain. Take vinegar, mustard, turmeric, sugar; 



PICKLES 



399 



salt to taste. Let this come to a boil and pour it over the 



mixture. 








CHILI 


SAUCE 


2 large onions. 




1 tablespoonful salt. 


3 peppers chopped. 




1 tablespoonful nutmeg. 


6 ripe tomatoes. 




1 tablespoonful cloves. 


1 cup sugar. 




1 tablespoonful ginger. 


2 cups vinegar. 




1 tablespoonful horseradish, 



Cook slowly for two hours. 



SWEET TOMATO PICKLES 



1 oz. allspice, 
1 oz. peppers. 
Some stick cinnamon. 



4^ lbs. green tomatoes. 
4| lbs. apples, quartered, 

3 pts. vinegar. 

4 lbs. sugar. 

Quarter apples — stick a few cloves (two) in each quarter. 
Tie all the spices in muslin bags. Let vinegar, sugar and 
spices come to a boil, then add tomatoes and apples, and 
boil till tender. 



GREEN CUCUMBER PICKLES 

gal. vinegar. 2 oz. mustard seed. 

oz. ginger root. 2 oz. peppercorns, 

lb. mustard, A few red peppers, 

lb. salt. 



Drop in as many cucumbers, beans, etc., as the vinegar 
will cover. Good to use in a month. Stir frequently. 

MUSTARD PICKLES 
1^ gal. white wine vinegar. 1 lb. mustard. 



4 oz. ginger, bruised. 
2 oz. allspice. 
^ oz. chillies, bruised. 
2 oz. turmeric. 



1 oz. garlic. 

2 lbs. salt, 

2 onions, cut in pieces. 



400 PICKLES 

Boil for a quarter of an hour, the onions and garlic only 
three minutes. The mustard and turmeric should be mixed 
well with some of the vinegar before it is put on to boil. 
When done put in a crock ; when cold put in the vegetables. 



SPICED CUREANTS 

4 lbs. currants. 1 oz. mace. 

2 lbs. sugar, ^ oz. whole cloves. 

1^ cups vinegar. Teaspoonful white mustard 

1| lbs. raisins. seed. 

1 oz. stick cinnamon. 

To currants add sugar, cinnamon, mace, cloves, mustard- 
seed tied in a muslin bag. Cook slowly one hour, then add 
vinegar ; stir constantly for fifteen minutes, also add one and 
one-quarter pounds of raisins chopped fine. 



CHEERY PICKLES 

Put cherries in cold salt and water for eighteen hours, 
then season vinegar with allspice, cloves, cinnamon and sugar, 
and pour hot over the cherries. Do this for three days in 
succession. 

INDIA PICKIES 

^ lb. turmeric. 2 oz. ground ginger. 

^ lb. mustard. 2 oz. allspice. 

^ lb. mustard seed. ^ oz. cayenne. 

1 oz. curry powder. 4 qts. malt vinegar. 

Boil these ingredients five minutes with vinegar, and pour 
over the vegetables while the mixture is hot. Prepare the 
vegetables as follows: Soak at least eight days in strong 



PICKLES 401 

salt and water, then dry them; put them into jars, not too 
closely packed, and pour over them the above mixture. 



LEMON PICKLE 

6 lemons. ^ oz. mace. 

^ lb. salt. ^ oz. turmeric. 

I oz. cloves. 3 pts. vinegar. 

Cut the lemons in halves ; squeeze out the juice ; cut each 
half into four pieces; rub each piece with salt, put them in 
a slow oven till they are quite brown and hard. Then rub 
them with the turmeric and put them in a jar. Put the 
juice, spice and vinegar and quarter ounce of cayenne pepper 
over them. Cover them up and set the jar on a hot hearth 
or on the back of the stove till the pickles are soft. 



YELLOW PICKLE 

4 large green peppers. 2 tablespoonfuls mustard. 

2 qts. or 4 large cucumbers. 2^ cups flour. 

2 qts. green tomatoes. 3| cups sugar. 

2 qts. small onions. 2 tablespoonfuls turmeric 

4 cauliflowers. powder. 

2 heads celery. 1 gal. cider vinegar. 

1 cup mustard seed. 

Chop finely peppers, siice cucumbers, green tomatoes, and 
onions. Break in pieces four cauliflowers and chop two 
heads of celery. Cover with salt and let stand twenty-four 
hours; drain; add mustard-seed. Dressing. — Mix mustard, 
flour, sugar, turmeric powder, one pint cider vinegar. Then 
put on to scald three and a half quarts eider vinegar ; when 
scalding add mixture and vegetables, leave on stove to scald 
and get soft. Do not boil. 



402 



PICKLES 



GRAPE CATSUP 



5 lbs. grapes. 
1^ lbs. sugar. 

1 pt. vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt, 

2 tablespoonfuls allspice. 



2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 
i teaspoonful red pepper. 
A little ground cloves. 
1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 



Stew grapes over a slow fire until soft, then strain through 
a sieve. Add sugar, vinegar, salt, cinnamon and allspice, 
red pepper, cloves (ground), and grated nutmeg. Mix all 
together and boil till quite thick. 



PICKLES 403 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



404 PICKLES 

WEITTEN RECIPES 



PICKLES 405 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



408 PICKLES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

Fruit for preserving should be sound and free from all 
defects, using white sugar, and also that which is dry, which 
produces the nicest syrup ; dark sugar can be used by being 
clarified, which is done by dissolving two pounds of sugar 
in a pint of water; add to it the white of an egg, and beat 
it well, put it into a preserving kettle on the fire, and stir 
with a wooden spoon. As soon as it begins to swell and boil 
up throw in a little cold water; let it boil up again, take it 
off, and remove the scum ; boil it again, throw in more cold 
w^ater, and remove the scum; repeat until it is clear and 
pours like oil from the spoon. 

In the old way of preserving, we used pound for pound, 
when they were kept in stone jars or crocks; now, as most 
preserves are put up in sealed jars or cans, less sugar seems 
sufficient ; three-quarters of a pound of sugar is generally all 
that is required for a pound of fruit. 

Fruit should be boiled in a porcelain-lined or graniteware 
dish, if possible ; but other utensils, copper or metal, if made 
bright and clean, answer as well. 

Any of the fruits that have been preserved in syrup may 
be converted into dry preserves, by first draining them from 
the syrup, and then drying them in a stove or very moderate 
oven, adding to them a quantity of powdered loaf sugar, 
which wdll gradually penetrate the fruit, while the fluid 
parts of the syrup gently evaporate. They should be dried 
m the stove or oven on a sieve, and turned every six or eight 
hours, fresh powdered sugar being sifted over them every 
time they are turned. Afterwards, they are to be kept in a 
dry situation, in drawers or boxes. Currants and cherries 

407 



40« PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

preserved whole in this manner in bunches are extremely ele- 
gant, and have a fine flavor. In this way it is, also, that 
orange and lemon chips are preserved. 

I\Iould can be prevented from forming on fruit jellies by 
pouring a little melted paraffine over the top. When cool, it 
will harden to a solid cake, which can be easily removed when 
the jelly is used, and saved to use over again another year. 
It is perfectly harmless and tasteless. 

Large glass tumblers are the best for keeping jellies, much 
better than large vessels, for by being opened frequently they 
soon spoil; a paper should be cut to fit, and placed over the 
jelly; then put on the lid or cover, with thick paper rubbed 
over on the inside with the white of an egg. 

There cannot be too much care taken in selecting fruit for 
jellies, for if the fruit is over ripe, any amount of time in 
boiling will never make it jelly — there is where so many fail 
in making good jelly, and another important matter is over- 
looked, that of carefully skimming off the juice after it begins 
to boil and a scum rises from the bottom to the top; the 
juice should not be stirred, but the scum carefully taken off; 
if allowed to boil under, the jelly will not be clear. 

"When either preserves or canned fruits show any indi- 
cations of fermentation, they should be immediately reboiled 
with more sugar to save them. It is much better to be gen- 
erous with the sugar at first, than to have any losses after- 
wards. Keep all preserves in a cool, dry closet. 

CANNED FEUITS 

Berries and all ripe, mellow fruit require but little cooking, 
only long enough for the sugar to penetrate. Strew sugar 
over them, allow them to stand a few hours, then merely 
scald with the sugar; half to three-quarters of a pound is 
considered sufficient. Harder fruits, like pears, quinces, etc., 
require longer boiling. 

The great secret of canning is to make the fruit or vege- 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 409 

table perfectly air-tight. It must be put up boiling hot, and 
the vessel filled to the brim. 

Have your jars conveniently placed near your boiling 
fruit, in a tin pan of hot water on the stove, roll them in the 
hot v^^ater, then fill immediately with the hot, scalding fruit, 
fill to the top, and seal quickly with the tops, which should 
also be heated ; occasionally screw down the tops tighter, as 
the fruit shrinks as it cools, and the glass contracts, and 
allows the air to enter the cans. They must be perfectly air- 
tight. The jars to be kept in a dark, cool, dry place. 

Use glass jars for fruit always, and the fruit should be 
cooked in a porcelain or granite-iron kettle. If you are 
obliged to use common large-mouthed bottles with corks, 
steam the corks and pare them to a close fit, driving them in 
with a mallet. Use the following wax for sealing : one pound 
of resin, three ounces of beeswax, one and one-half ounces of 
tallow. Use a brush in covering the corks, and as they cool, 
dip the mouth into the melted wax. Place in a basin of 
cool water. Pack in a cool, dark, and dry cellar. After 
one week examine for flaws, cracks or signs of ferment. 

The rubber rings used to assist in keeping the air from 
the fruit cans sometimes become so dry and brittle as to be 
almost useless. They can be restored to normal condition 
usually by letting them lie in water in which you have put 
a little ammonia. ]\Iix in this proportion: One part of 
ammonia and two parts water. Sometimes they do not need 
to lie in this more than five minutes, but frequently a half- 
hour is needed to restore their elasticity. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

9 bitter oranges. 4 qts. water. 

3 sweet oranges. 8 lbs. sugar. 

4 lemons. 

Cut the oranges and lemons across the grain as fine as 
possible, put all together in a jar, and cover with four quarts 



410 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

of water; let it stand for twenty-four hours, then boil one 
hour; next add sugar (white), and boil two hours; pot for 
use. A wineglass of whisky or brandy may be added just 
before removing from fire to clarify the marmalade. 

APPLE JELLY 

Windfall apples make the best jelly; all sorts, large or 
small, washed, boiled whole in a preserving kettle until quite 
pulpy, strained through a jelly bag without squeezing. If 
passed through a silver wire sieve first, will run easier. Put 
sugar into a kettle with a little water, enough to melt, and 
boil quickly for ten minutes. Then add strained apple 
juice; to every five pints, four pounds of sugar is allowed; 
thin rind of two lemons ; boil all together one hour. A beau- 
tiful clear jelly and keeps well. IMeasure apple juice care- 
fully before putting on sugar, and gauge sugar exactly. 

PEACH, APPLE, OE QUINCE LEATHER 

One pound of the fruit (apples and quince of equal quan- 
tities, or of either separately), one pound sugar. Peel and 
cut up the fruit in small pieces. Put on to boil with as little 
water as possible. "While boiling mash fine with a spoon. 
Add one pound of granulated sugar and boil about fifteen 
or twenty minutes longer. Then spread the mass very thin 
on a flat tin or platter to dry. In the south it is put out of 
doors in the sun under netting and brought in at night. It 
can be done equally well by using a cool oven, leaving the 
door open, so that it may stay there at night as well. It 
must not cool, only dry. Several days are required in drying. 
Then cut in strips, roll in sugar and roll up or leave in plain 
lengths. 

GRAPE JELLY 

Small cupful of water in the bottom of a four-quart kettle, 
filled with grapes. Let fruit boil until all the juice is ex- 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 411 

tracted. Strain and add a pound of sugar to a pint of juice 
and boil until it jellies. 

SIMPLE RECIPE FOR MARMALADE 

12 bitter oranges, 6 qts. water. 

1 lemon. 7 or 8 lbs. sugar. 

Bitter oranges, one lemon cut very thin, and put into 
water; let stand over night or thirty-sis hours, then boil 
rather fast two and one-half hours, then add seven or eight 
pounds of white sugar and boil one hour longer. Take out 
all seeds and hard ends. If sweet oranges are used put in 
only the pulp. The addition of the pulp of two sweet 
oranges sometimes improves the marmalade. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

24 bitter oranges, 11 qts, water. 

6 sweet oranges. 22 lbs, sugar. 

Juice 6 lemons. 

Cut up the oranges very thinly; cover with twenty-two 
pints of cold water ; allow to stand for thirty-six hours ; boil 
quickly for two hours; add sugar, and boil steadily for one 
hour. If you care to, add one wineglass of brandy as you 
are taking from the stove, to clear the jelly. Put into pots, 
cool, and cover, 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

I'ake two dozen bitter oranges and weigh them, cut the 
skin and take it off in quarters ; put in a cheese-cloth bag and 
cook in water nearly two hours, until you can pierce easily 
with a straw, then cut in thin pieces about an inch long, cut 
the oranges into halves and scrape out the pi^lp and juice, 
throwing away the pith. Take as many pounds of sugar as 
you have oranges, put it into the water you cooked the rinds 



412 PRESEEVES AND JELLIES 

in, and boil ten minutes, skim and add the rinds and pulp, 
cook half an hour, then dip in tumblers, and set away to cool 
before sealing. 

PEAR AND aUINCE MARMALADE 

24 pears. f lbs. sugar to each 1 lb. fruit. 

10 ripe quinces. 1 pt. water to each 1| lbs. 

Juice 3 lemons. sugar. 

Weigh fruit after it is ready to cook. Pare and core the 
fruit and throw into cold water — while you stew parings and 
cores in a little cold water to make syrup. When the parings 
are well boiled strain off liquid. When cold put in fruit 
and bring quickly to a boil, boiling until smooth, then add 
the sugar and lemon juice, and cook steadily for an hour, 
working with a spoon to a rich jelly. 

GINGER APPLES 

In days w^hen apples are plentiful it is a good thing to 
know of diverse methods of making up this fruit, and this is 
a palatable conserve. 

In the first place firm pippins must be used. They are 
peeled and cut into even sized pieces while firm, and to six 
pounds allow a quarter of a pound of green ginger root and 
four lemons ; also five pounds of sugar. Cut the ginger root 
into thin slices and the lemon peel into thin chips and boil 
till it looks clear. Drain, and let stand till cold, using the 
water in which they are boiled to make the syrup. Simmer 
the apples in this syrup till they are tender enough to be 
pierced with a straw, then put them into fruit jars, cook the 
lemon and ginger a little more in the syrup and then divide 
it among the jars of apples, filling up with a thick syrup, and 
screw the lids while the syrup is hot, as for the fruit con- 
serve. This is a delicious way to serve apples, and during 
the winter is often preferred to other fruit. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 413 

APPLE BUTTER 

Take five gallons of sweet cider, one peck of tart apples 
and two pounds of the best brown sugar. Pare and core 
the apples, then quarter, and cut across to shorten the fibre. 
Boil the cider down to about half its original quantity, add 
the apples and sugar, and continue to stir the mixture well 
from the bottom. It must be boiled until the apples and 
cider form one solid mass and do not separate. One of the 
secrets of success is in thorough boiling, and simmering with- 
out burning. Properly made it is a conserve that will keep 
a long while. 

GINGER APPLES 

5 lbs. apples. | lb. white ginger. 

4 lbs. sugar. 

Infuse the ginger in boiling water for several hours to 
extract all the substance. Pare the apples and quarter 
them, removing the cores. Throw them into a basin of cold 
w^ater. Put into a preserving pan the sugar and two pints 
water, using the ginger water as part of it. Bring this to 
a boil and boil for five minutes. Now lift the apples from 
the water into the pan and boil for three-quarters of an 
hour or till they become transparent. Put in jars and 
cover. Firm apples, such as Newton Pippins or Scotch 
apples, are the best. 

RIPE GOOSEBERRY JAM 

To every pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar. To every six pounds of fruit, half a pint of red- 
currant juice. 

Select red, hairy gooseberries, which should be gathered in 
dry weather, and when quite ripe. Weigh them, cut off the 
tops and tails, and to every six pounds of fruit add half a 
pint of red-currant juice, drawn as for jeUy. Put the fruit 



414 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

and juice into a preserving-pan, and let them boil rather 
quickly, keeping them well stirred. "When they begin to 
break, which will be in about an hour, add the sugar, and 
keep simmering until it becomes firm, stirring and skimming 
all the time. Put it into pots (not too large), and when 
cold cover with oiled and egged paper. 

RHUBAKB JAM (GREEN) 

1^ lbs. green rhubarb. i oz. bitter almonds. 

1 lb. sugar. A little ginger. 

Rind of ^ lemon. 

AVipe the rhubarb quite dry, cut it into pieces about two 
inches long, and put it into a preserving-pan with the sugar; 
the rind of the lemon cut very fine, and the almonds blanched 
and divided. Boil the whole well together, taking care to 
stir and skim frequently, and when it is nearly done stir 
in the ginger. Young rhubarb will take about three-quarters 
of an hour, but if old it must be boiled for an hour and a 
half. This preserve should be of a green color, and will be 
found a very good substitute for green-gage jam. 

RHUBARB JAM (RED) 

Four- pounds of rhubarb — the red kind — four pounds of 
loaf sugar, and five ounces whole ginger. 

Peel and cut up the rhubarb into small pieces, add the 
sugar and ginger, and boil until clear. Pot and tie down 
as for other preserves. This should be of a brilliant red 
color, and is very good for serving with blanc-mange, 
moulded rice, or rice flummery. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

9 bitter oranges. 2 lemons. 

3 sweet oranges. 8 lbs. sugar. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 415 

Slice the fruit across the grain, as thin as possible, being 
careful, at the same time, to remove all seeds. Place in a 
deep dish with four quarts of water, allow it to stand for 
twenty-four hours, then add sugar and boil for one hour, or 
until it will jelly. Before taking off the fire add one glass 
of whisky to clarify. 

PEAR JELLY 

6 large baking pears. 8 whole cloves. 

^ lb. sugar. f lemon. 

^ pt. wine. ^ oz. gelatine. 

Peel the pears and cut them into quarters, put them into 
a shallow dish with sugar, cloves, and water enough to cover 
them; stew until tender, not broken. Take the pears from 
the liquor and put them in a mould. To half a pint of 
liquor add the gelatine juice, and grated rind of lemon and 
the wine. Let these ingredients boil quickly five minutes, 
strain the warm liquid over the pears and set in a cool place. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE 

6 lbs. pineapple. 3 pts. water. 

4| lbs. sugar. 

Peel and remove all dark spots on the pineapples. Shred 
with a fork. Boil sugar and water ten minutes, skim and 
add the shredded pineapple. Let it boil up, then seal in 
self-sealers with a brandied paper between the fruit and 
glass tops. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY 

1 package gelatine. | cup pineapple juice. 

4 lemons. f cup chopped pineapple. 

1 cup sugar. 

Soak gelatine in one cup cold water for one-half hour ; add 
the grated rind of two lemons to this, soak for fifteen min- 



416 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

utes. Then add sugar, juice of four lemons, two and one- 
half cups boiling water and pineapple juice. Let come to a 
boil and strain into a mould which has been soaked in cold 
water. Drop three-quarters cup chopped pineapple into the 
mould and set away to cool. 

PICKLED PEAHS 

1 basket pears. f lb. sugar to each pound of 
Juice 6 lemons and rind of 4. fruit. 

^ lb. ginger root, well pounded. 

Peel pears, leaving the stem. Put on with as little water 
as possible and let them stew a short time. Take them out, 
leaving the juice in the kettle, add sugar, lemon rind and 
juice, and if desired any spice can be added in a muslin bag. 
Let all boil together for ten minutes, then add the pears with 
a clove or two stuck in each pear. Boil till the pears are 
tender. 

SCOTCH MARMALADE 

2 doz. Seville oranges. 16 lbs. sugar. 

3 lemons. 

Cut fruit into thin slices, take out seeds ; put in an earthen- 
iware pan and cover with eight and one-half quarts of cold 
water; let it stand for twenty-four hours. Boil quickly for 
two hours, then add sugar and boil again one and one-half 
hours. The seeds should be soaked for twenty-four hours in 
one pint of cold water ; when ready to put in the sugar pour 
the liquid off them through a strainer and add to the oranges. 
If not wanted very thick do not boil so long after adding 
sugar. 

TO PRESERVE FRUIT WHOLE, WITHOUT SUGAR 

For plums, green-gages, cherries, or gooseberries — Select 
sound, fresh fruit and prepare as for ordinary stewing, i. e., 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 417 

■wiping the plums, or taking the stems off the cherries or 
gooseberries. Then fill your glass gem- jars with the fruit 
as closely packed as possible without bruising. Screw on the 
tops tightly and place the jars in a boiler of cold water, suf- 
ficient to cover the jars. Let this boil, and after it has boiled 
a few minutes watch your jars to ascertain when the contents 
are sufficiently cooked. When you see the skins of the plums 
or cherries commence to split, or the gooseberries turn color 
to a yellowish shade, then remove them one at a time; take 
off the top of the jar and fill up with fast-boiling water from 
the kettle. 

Quickly screw on the top of the jar again, and put it away 
to cool, tightening it again when cold. I have kept fruit like 
this for two years and when used it was like fresh fruit. By 
using ripe fruit, and filling up the jars with boiling syrup 
instead of water, it makes a delicious preserve. Indeed, this 
is the best way to preserve crab-apples. For syrup, use five 
cups of sugar to six of water ; boil ten minutes. 

BIACKBERRY AND APPLE JAM 

Pick over your blackberries and weigh them. To each 
pound of berries put half a pound of sliced apple. To every 
six pounds of berries add one lemon, very thinly sliced. 
Equal weight of fruit and sugar. Put the fruit on and let 
it boil steadily nearly half an hour, then add the sugar by 
degrees, and boil about twenty minutes. Some fruit takes 
longer to boil than others, but the berries should feel quite 
soft and mashy when done. Very delicious. 

CHOPPED PEARS 

8 lbs. sickle pears. I lb. candied ginger. 

8 lbs. sugar. 4 lemons. 

Chip or slice the pears, slice the ginger root and let them 
boil together with the sugar for one hour, slowly. Boil the 



418 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

lemons whole in clear water until tender, then cut up in 
small bits, removing the seeds ; add to the pears and boil an 
hour longer. Put in glasses. Use candied or crystallized 
ginger in preference to the green root. 

KOYAL MARMALADE 

Twelve Seville oranges; cut each orange into eight quar- 
ters and slice them very fine ; take out the seeds and put them 
into a basin and cover with water; to every pound of fruit 
add three pints of cold water. Let it stand for twenty-four 
hours, then boil until tender. Put the juice from the seeds 
in also. Let it stand until the following day, then to every 
pound of boiled fruit add :ne and a half pounds of sugar and 
the rind and juice of two lemons; boil, stirring constantly 
until the syrup jellies. 

RED CURRANT MARMALADE 

6 lbs. currants. 6 oranges. 

^ lb. raisins. ^ teaspoonful mace. 

6 lbs. sugar. ^ teaspoonful cinnamon. 

Boil the currants and press through a sieve; boil the yel- 
low rind of the oranges in a little water and chop finely. 
Chop raisins and pulp of oranges. Boil all together till 
thick, half or three-quarters of an hour. Half yellow rind 
after boil is sufficient. 

BITTER ORANGE MARMALADE 

Slice twelve Seville oranges into a large bowl — leaving out 
pips. To each pound of fruit add three pints of cold water 
and let stand twelve or eighteen hours. Then boil gently till 
soft, about thirty minutes. Let stand again till next day. 
Then weigh and to every pound of fruit and juice add one 
pound granulated sugar, and boil till clear and thick. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 419 

FOR BOTTLING WHOLE FRUIT 

Make a syrup (cold or hot) with a quarter of a pound of 
sugar to a quart of water; fill the jars very full of fruit; 
pour on the syrup; screw down, but not tightly; place the 
bottles in a kettle of cold water, with boards under them, and 
allow them to boil a quarter of an hour or a little longer, ac- 
cording to the ripeness of the fruit. When done lift the 
bottles out, screw down tightly, and allow them to stand until 
cold. Crabapples, Bartlett pears, cherries, peaches, plums 
can be done in this way and retain their flavor and color. 



420 PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 421 

WEITTEN RECIPES 



422 PEESERVES AND JELLIES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 423 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



CANDIES 

In the making of confections, the best granulated or loaf 
sugar should be used. (Beware of glucose mixed with 
sugar.) Sugar is boiled more or less, according to the kind 
of candy to be made, and it is necessary to understand the 
proper degree of sugar boiling to operate it successfully. 

Occasionally sugar made into candies, ''creams" or syrups, 
will need clarifying. The process is as follows: Beat up 
well the white of an egg with a cupful of cold water and pour 
it into a very clean iron or thick new tin saucepan, then put 
into the pan four cupfuls of sugar, mixed with a cupful of 
warm water. Put on the stove, and heat moderately until 
the scum rises. Remove the pan, and skim off the top, then 
place on the fire again until the scum rises again. Then 
remove as before, and so continue until no scum rises. 

This recipe is for good brown or yellowish sugar ; for soft, 
white sugars, half the white of an egg will do, and for refined 
or loaf sugar a quarter will do. 

The quantities of sugar and water are the same in all cases. 
Loaf sugar will generally do for all candy-making without 
further clarification. Brown or yellow sugars are used for 
caramels, dark-colored cocoanut, taffy, and pulled molasses 
candies generally. 

Havana is the cheapest grade of white sugar and a shade 
or two lighter than the brown. 

Confectioners' A is superior in color and grain to the 
Havana. It is a centrifugal sugar — that is, it is not reboiled 
to procure its white color, but is moistened with water and 
then put into rapidly revolving cylinders. The uncrystal- 
lized syrup or molasses is whirled out of it, and the sugar 
comes out with a dry, white grain. 

424 



CANDIES 425^ 

Icing or powdered sugar. This is powdered loaf sugar. 
Icing can only be made with powdered sugar, which is pro- 
duced by grinding or crushing loaf sugar as fine as flour 
nearly. 

Granulated sugar. This is a coarse-grained sugar, gen- 
erally very clean and sparkling, and fit for use as a colored 
sugar in crystallized goods, and other superior uses. 

This same sj^rup answers for most candies, and should be 
boiled to such a degree that when a fork or splinter is dipped 
into it the liquid will run off and form a thick drop on the 
end, and long, silk-like threads hang from it when exposed to 
the air. The syrup never to be stirred while hot, or else it 
will grain, but if intended for soft, French candies, should be 
removed, and, when nearly cold, stirred to a cream. For 
hard, brittle candies, the syrup should be boiled until when 
a little is dropped in cold water, it will crack and break when 
biting it. 

The hands should be buttered when handling it, or it will 
stick to them. 

The top of the inside of the dish that the sugar or mo- 
lasses is to be cooked in, should be buttered a few inches 
around the inside; it prevents the syrup from rising and 
swelling any higher than where it reaches the buttered edge. 

For common crack candies, the sugar can be kept from 
graining by adding a teaspoonful of vinegar or cream tartar. 

Essences and extracts should be bought at the druggist's, 
not the poor kind usually sold at the grocer 's. 

For most recipes granulated sugar is preferable. Candy 
should not be stirred after it begins to boil. Butter should 
be added when candy is almost done. 

BUTTER SCOTCH 
1 cup brown sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Butter size of egg. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Boil until it hardens on a spoon. 



426 CANDIES 

CARAIEELS 

1 cup molasses. Butter size of egg. 

1 cup brown sugar. Vanilla flavoring. 

1 cup cream or milk. 

Beat all together; boil until it thickens in water. Turn 
into flat tins, and when nearly cold cut into small squares. 

PEANUT CANDY 

1 qt. peanuts. 1 large cup sugar. 

Shell and skin pean-u-ts, and roll them until fine. Place 
granulated sugar in a saucepan. Set it over a hot fire and 
stir the contents quickly until it melts. Do this while the 
peanuts are being heated through in the oven, and after the 
pans are buttered and set on the back of the range to be kept 
hot. When the sugar has melted pour the hot peanuts into 
it, remove from the fire and pour into the hot buttered pans. 
.When cold it can be broken into pieces. 

HICKORY-NUT CANDY 

1 cup nut meats. ^ cup water. 

2 cups sugar. A pinch of salt. 

Boil sugar and water without stirring until thick enough 
to spin a thread. Set off to cool. Stir until white, and add 
nut meats. Turn into a flat tin and when cold cut in squares. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

1 cake chocolate. 1 cup milk. 

2 cups white sugar. Butter size of walnut. 

Cook all together. Test in cold water until you can roll 
well in fingers; take off stove; stir until cool. Pour into 
plates and cut into squares. 




i a 



CANDIES 427 

FUDGE 

2 cups sugar. ^ lb, chocolate. 

1 cup milk. Butter size of walnut. 

Scald the milk, then add the sugar, butter and chocolate 
broken into small pieces. Boil until it sets when tried in 
cold water. Take off the fire, and beat until nearly; cold. 
Then turn out on plates and mark into squares. 

YUM YUM 

1 lb. brown sugar. Butter size of egg. 

[Water to moisten. 

Cook until it becomes brittle when dropped into cold water, 
then pull until creamy white. 

VELVET CREAM CANDY 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk. Cook until it will 
roll in fingers. Let it cool, and pull and pat until it becomes 
creamy. Pat out flat in platter, and cover with a damp 
napkin until ready to use. Better second day. 

COCOANUT CREAM CANDY 

1 cup sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls shredded co- 

A little water. coanut. 

Sugar and a little water boiled without stirring until it 
will spin a thread. Take from the fire ; add a large table- 
spoonful of shredded cocoanut and stir until creamy. Drop 
size of a penny on buttered paper. Slip off when cool and 
pack in boxes, 

CARAMELS 

3 lbs. brown sugar. Butter size of egg, 

1 cake chocolate, . 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

1 cup milk. 



428 CANDIES 

Grate the chocolate and dissolve; then add the sugar and 
butter and boil until they will harden in cold water. Put 
into a buttered pan; work off in squares when half cold. 

SCOTCH TOFFEE 

2 lbs. yellow sugar. Cream to make thin batter. 

6 oz. fresh butter. 

Melt the butter slowly and when fully melted add the 
sugar. Mix thoroughly and stir in sufficient cream to make 
the whole of the consistency of a thin batter. Now place on 
the stove and stir until the boiling point is reached. After 
this it must not be stirred on any account. Boil very slowly 
until it feels tough, but not brittle, when tested by cooling a 
little in cold water. Now pour into buttered trays and cool 
slowly, then cut into squares. The color may be made a rich 
brown by the addition of a teaspoonful of cochineal before 
boiling. Success depends largely on slow boiling and cool- 
ing. The above recipe is from a famous Scottish confec- 
tioner. 

MAPLE CREAM CANDY 

Three cups of brown sugar, half a cup of cream or milk. 
When it comes to the boil add a dessertspoonful of butter. 
Let it boil for fifteen minutes, stirring just before taking ofE 
the fire, put in tablespoonful of vanilla; remove from the 
fire ; beat briskly for five minutes. Butter your plates. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

2 lbs. brown sugar. 1 small cup cold water. 

^ lb. chocolate. 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Put on the fire brown sugar, chocolate, broken into small 
pieces, and a small cupful of cold water. Boil this until a 



CANDIES 429 

little of it hardens in water, stir into it butter and vanDla, 
turn into buttered pans and cut into squares. If you like 
the sugary, soft caramels, stir the mixture hard for several 
minutes after you take it from the fire ; but should you prefer 
the sticky variety, add four tablespoonfuls of molasses to 
your sugar when you put it on to cook, and do not stir it 
after it leaves the stove. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 
"White of 1 egg. 6 tablespoonfuls sweet choco- 

Equal quantity of water. late. 

Sugar (confectioner's) to make stiff. 

To the white of an egg, mixed with as much water, add 
enough confectioner's sugar to make a dough-like paste that 
can be worked with the fingers into small balls. Grate sweet- 
ened chocolate, melt it, without water, in a cup on the stove, 
and when smooth and thick dip your balls of sugar-paste 
into it and then let them dry on waxed paper. They may 
have to be dipped several times before they are satisfactory. 

MAPLE SUGAR CANDY 
Take two pounds of maple sugar, broken into small pieces, 
and put it in a saucepan with a quart of rich milk — part 
cream is better. Let this boil until it reaches the stage where 
it hardens in cold water ; pour it into pans, and mark it in 
squares as you w^ould taffy or caramels. 

MAPLE SUGAR CANDY 
1 lb. maple sugar. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 pt. milk. 

Break the sugar into small pieces and put it into a double 
boiler with the milk. Put it on the stove and cook until the 
sugar melts. Set the inner vessel of the double boiler di- 
rectly on the stove and boil, stirring constantly, until the 



430 CANDIES 

sjTup reaches the stage where a little dropped in cold water 
becomes brittle. Add your butter then, and when this is 
melted turn the syrup into greased pans. As it cools, mark 
it off in squares with a knife. 

MAPLE SIJGAIl CREAM CANDY 

1 cup thick cream. ^ cup walnut meats. 

2 cups maple sugar. 

To cream add maple sugar cut in small pieces. Boil, stir- 
ring always one way until when tried in cold water the mix- 
ture adheres to spoon. Kemove from fire and stir the oppo- 
site way until mixture gets quite thick; add chopped wal- 
nuts and pour out on buttered platter. When cold cut in 
small squares. 

NOUGAT 

The simplest, if perhaps the least scientific, way to make 
this is the following: Boil together a pound of sugar and 
half a cupful of cold water until a little of it becomes brittle 
when dropped in cold water. Do not stir it after the sugar 
melts. Butter a shallow tin — a biscuit-pan will answer — 
and cover the bottom closely with blanched almonds, the ker- 
nels of hickory, pecan, and hazel nuts, thin strips of cocoa- 
nut, split and stoned dates, bits of figs, etc. When the candy 
is done add to it a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, and pour it 
over your nuts and fruits. Mark it into strips or squares 
when cool. 

MAPLE CREAM 

Proceed as in preceding recipe, using maple sugar instead 
of the plain white sugar. 

STUFFED DATES 

Remove the stone and put in its place a bit of fondant, 
or, better still, a peanut or a blanched almond and dust with 
fine sugar. 



CANDIES 431 

TURKISH DELIGHT 

1 oz. gelatine. Juice of 1 lemon, 1 orange, 

1 lb. granulated sugar, and a teaspoonful of rum. 

^ cup cold water. 

One ounce gelatine, soak in one-half cup of cold water for 
two hours ; one pound of granulated sugar put in a pan with 
one-half cup of cold water. Stand the pan over the fire 
until the sugar is melted and comes to the boil; add soaked 
gelatine and boil steadily for twenty minutes; flavor with 
the juice of one lemon and one orange and a tablespoonful 
of rum. Wet a tin in cold water and turn the mixture in, 
having it about one inch thick; when it is hard or jellied, 
spread icing sugar over the top and cut into inch 
square pieces ; roll in the icing sugar. A few chopped nuts 
added with the flavoring makes it much nicer. Let the mix- 
ture stand in the pan over night before cutting, as it is very 
sticky. 

N. B. — This is one of the most wholesome of candies and 
will not hurt any person either sick or well, as it is really 
jelly. 

CURRANT DROPS 

Use currant- juice, instead of water, to moisten a quantity 
of sugar. Put it in a pan and heat, stirring constantly; 
be sure not to let it boil ; then mix a very little more sugar, 
let it warm with the rest a moment; then, with a smooth 
stick, drop on paper. 

LEMON DROPS 

Upon a coffee-cupful of finely powdered sugar, pour just 
enough lemon-juice to dissolve it, and boil it to the consist- 
ency of thick syrup, and so that it appears brittle when 
dropped in cold water. Drop this on buttered plates in 
drops; set away to cool and harden. 



482 CANDIES 

NTJT MOLASSES CANDY 

When making molasses candy, add any kind of nuts you 
fancy; put them in after the syrup has thickened, and is 
ready to take from the fire; pour out on buttered tins. 
Mark it off in squares before it gets too cool. Peanuts 
should be fresh roasted and then tossed in a sieve, to free 
them of their inner skins. 

MAPLE MOTTSSE 

Yolks 4 eggs. 1 cup maple syrup. 

1 pt. cream. 

Whip the cream very stiff. Beat the eggs and place them 
in a double boiler; pour in the maple syrup and stir con- 
stantly until the mixture gathers on the spoon. Then take 
off the stove and beat till cold. Stir into the whipped 
cream; put in a freezer that has been previously packed in 
ice and salt. Let stand four hours. 

SUGAR NUT CANDY 

3 lbs. sugar. i lb. butter. 

^ pt. water. 1 lb. hickory-nut meats. 

^ pt. vinegar. 

Put the sugar, butter, vinegar and water together into a 
thick saucepan. When it begins to thicken, add the nuts. 
To test it, take up a very small quantity as quickly as 
possible directly from the centre, taking care not to disturb 
it any more than is necessary. Drop it into cold water, and 
remove from the fire the moment the little particles are 
brittle. Pour into buttered plates. Use any nuts with this 
recipe. v 

COCOANUT CANDY 

1 cocoanut. Milk of cocoanut or 

1^ cups sugar. f cup water. 



CANDIES 433 

Put sugar and milk of cocoanut together, heat slowly 
until the sugar is melted, then boil five minutes; add cocoa- 
nut (finely grated), boil ten minutes longer, stir constantly 
to keep from burning. Pour on buttered plates, cut in 
squares. Will take about two days to harden. Use pre- 
pared cocoanut when other cannot be had. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

1 qt. molasses. Butter size of -} egg. 

1 cup brown sugar. ^ teaspoonful soda. 

Put molasses, brown sugar, butter the size of half an egg, 
into a six-quart kettle. Let boil over a slack fire until it 
begins to look thick, stirring it often to prevent burning. 
Test it by taking some out and dropping a few drops in a 
cup of cold water. If it hardens quickly and breaks short 
between the teeth it is boiled enough. Now put in baking 
soda, and stir it well; then pour it out into well-buttered 
flat tins. "When partly cooled, take up the candy with your 
hands well buttered, then pull and double, and so on, until 
the candy is a whitish yellow. It may be cut in strips and 
rolled or twisted. If flavoring is desired, drop the flavor- 
ing on the top as it begins to cool, and when it is pulled, 
the whole will be flavored. 



434 CANDIES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



CANDIES 435 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



436 CANDIES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



CANDIES 437; 

WEITTEN RECIPES 



CHAFINa DISH EECIPES 

'A few years ago it might have been thought necessary to 
include, in a book of this character, an elaborate treatise 
upon the methods of cooking with the chafing dish, and a 
long list of recipes. But we have changed all that. Few 
and far between are the homes in which the chafing dish is 
not a familiar friend, and each man or woman who handles 
it has his, or her, own pet recipes for at least the best-known 
dishes that can be prepared over an alcohol flame. There- 
fore it is not designed to give elementary instructions here. 
There follow only such dishes as have seemed new or un- 
usual, and so worthy of being made known to the public. 

DEVILED OYSTERS 

20 oysters. -| teaspoonful curry powder. 

1 gill oyster-liquor. 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. sauce. 

1 dessertspoonful of flour. 10 drops tabasco sauce. 

1 teaspoonful salt. Juice of 1 lemon. 

Melt the butter in the blazer, stir in the flour, and when 
this is blended, the oyster-liquor and all the seasoning ex- 
cept the lemon-juice. As soon as the sauce is boiling hot, 
drop in the oysters and cook three minutes or until they 
plump. Add the lemon-juice and serve them at once on 
Graham toast. 

OYSTERS WITH ANCHOVY 

20 oysters. A little cayenne. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Juice of 1 lemon. 

1 teaspoonful, large, of anchovy paste. 

438 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 439 

Melt the butter and the anchovy together in the blazer, 
put in the oysters, cook three minutes, add the cayenne and 
lemon- juice and serve on buttered toast or "breakfast- 
biscuit. ' ' 

ENGLISH MONKEY 

Soak one cupful of stale breadcrumbs in one cup of milk 
fifteen minutes; put one heaping teaspoonful of butter into 
chafing-dish; add three-quarters of a cup of cheese cut 
fine; stir until melted; add crumbs with one beaten egg. 

CREAMED OYSTESS ON TOAST 

Slices of hot toast covering large hot platter. One pint 
boiling milk. Turn in one pint oysters, then two dessert- 
spoons cornstarch or flour stirred smooth in a little milk. 
Salt, cayenne, lump of butter size of small egg. Pour over 
toast and serve instantly. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

3 oz. cheese. 1 dessertspoonful mustard. 

Yolks 2 eggs. 3 oz. butter. 

4} oz. grated bread. A little salt and pepper. 

Grate cheese, and mix it with the yolks of eggs, bread, 
and butter ; beat the whole together in a mortar with made 
mustard, a little salt and some pepper; toast some slices of 
bread, cut off the outside crust, cut it in shapes and spread 
the paste thick upon them, and put them in the oven, let 
them become hot and slightly browned, serve hot as possible. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

Butter size of egg. | pt. beer. 

2 or 3 cups grated cheese. A little onion juice. 

2 eggs. , Salt and cayenne to taste. 



440 CHAFING DISH RECIPES 

Melt butter, add cheese and seasoning, then beer and 
beaten eggs. 

WELSH RAKEBIT 

1 lb. cheese. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

2 oz. butter. 1 saltspoonful dry mustard. 
2 tablespoonfuls ale or ^ saltspoonful pepper. 
Yolks 2 eggs beaten in ^ cup A dash of cayenne. 

milk. 

Stir in a saucepan over the fire until melted smoothly 
together. Pour on a couple of slices of toast laid on a hot 
dish. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

l lb. cheese. 1 egg. 

^ cup cream or milk. 1 teaspoonful butter. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. Salt and cayenne, 

I teaspoonful salt. 4 slices of toast. 

Break the cheese in small pieces, or if hard grate it. Put 
it with the milk in a double boiler. Toast the bread and 
keep it hot. Mix the mustard, salt and pepper; add the 
egg, and beat well. When the cheese is melted, stir in the 
egg and butter, and cook two minutes, or until it thickens 
a little, but do not let it curdle. Pour it over the toast. 
Many use ale instead of cream. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

^ glass old ale. | teaspoonful salt, 

•J lb, old cheese. Dash of Worcestershire sauce. 

Pinch red pepper- 
Grate cheese fine, place in a chafing-dish or small sauce- 
pan on fire, rub well with back of spoon until thoroughly 
dissolved; mix pepper, mustard and Worcester sauce 
thoroughly with ale, and pour into cheese. Thoroughly mix 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 441 

•until smootli. Serve on buttered toast, cut diamond shape 
on red-hot dish. 

CELERY OYSTERS 

20 oysters. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 gill oysters liquor. 1 gill sherry or Madeira. 

•| cup celery minced. 1 teaspoonful each of salt and 

1 gill of cream. paprica. 

Put the oyster-liquor, celery, and paprica in the chafing- 
dish over hot water, and when it comes to a boil simmer 
three or four minutes; add the butter and the cream, and 
when these are boiling hot put in the oysters. Cook until 
the edges curl, stir in the wine and salt, and serve at once 
on toast. 

CLAMS SAUTE 

20 clams. A little white pepper. 

2 slices salt pork. Slices of Graham toast. 

Fry the pork or bacon crisp in the blazer, and when the 
dice begin to brown push them to the side of the pan and 
lay in the clams. Saute them, turning once or twice, and 
serve on Graham or Boston brown bread toast. 



DEVILED SARDINES 

1 box boneless sardines. 1 teaspoonful paprica. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. ^ saltspoonful cayenne. 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 1 saltspoonful salt. 

Melt the butter in the blazer and when hissing hot lay in 
the sardines. Cook until heated through, turning once, 
sprinkle with salt and paprica, add the lemon-juice, and 
serve on toast. 



442 CHAFING DISH RECIPES 

LOBSTEE A LA NEWBURG 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 tablespoonful cornstarch. 

1 can lobster. 1 egg. 

1 cup milk. Salt and cayenne to taste. 
1 cup sherry. 

Melt butter in chafing dish, add lobster. When hot add 
one small cup of milk, sherry (very slowly), salt and 
cayenne to taste. Thicken with cornstarch dissolved in a 
little milk. Just before serving stir in egg beaten very 
light. 

CREAMED LOBSTER 

Meat of 1 lobster chopped '^ oz. gelatine. 

fine. A little anchovy paste and 

^ pt. whipped cream. cayenne and salt. 

Take the meat lobster, chop it fine, add whipped cream, 
gelatine which has been soaked in water, a little anchovy 
sauce, salt and cayenne. Stir it gently till nearly set, and 
pour into a slightly oiled border mould. When turned out, 
fill the centre with mayonnaise, garnish with mashed green 
peas put through a forcepipe, and the claws round the out- 
side. 

SHRIMPS WITH ANCHOVY SATJCE 

1 can shrimps. 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

1 gill cream. | saltspoonful cayenne. 

Melt together the butter and anchovy, lay in the shrimps, 
pepper them, and saute until they are hot through. Break 
the eggs in a bowl, beat the cream into them, and pour into 
the chafing-dish. Stir two or three minutes, until the sauce 
thickens, and serve at once on toast. 

This dish should be prepared over hot water. 



CHAFING DISH 5?ECIPrS 443 

SHRIMPS WITH TOMATO SATJCE 

One cupful of tomato sauce (see recipe). This can easily 
be prepared in the chafing-dish. One can of shrimps. Salt 
to taste, and one saltspoonful of cayenne. 

Stir the shrimps into the tomato sauce, bring to a boil, 
season, and serve on toast or in scallop-shells, or nappies. 

CELERY LOBSTER 

2 cups lobster meat. | pt. milk. 

1 cupful celery, minced. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 1 teaspoonful salt. 
Juice 1 lemon. 1 saltspoonful cayenne. 

1 dessertspoonful flour. 

Cook together the butter and flour over hot water, add the 
milk, stir until smooth, put in the celery and cook three 
minutes, add the lobster, seasoning, and yolk of egg; stir 
until thick, and serve. 

HUNGARIAN MUSHROOMS 

Half a pound of fresh mushrooms, stemmed and peeled; 
three tablespoonfuls of salad oil ; one teaspoonful of paprica ; 
one saltspoon of pepper. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Four cups minced chicken. One cup bread crumbs, three 
eggs. Tablespoonful butter and seasoning. Mix and make 
into balls, dip into beaten egg and bread crumbs. Fry a 
nice brown. 

WELSH RAREBIT 

2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful mustard. 
I lb. soft cheese. Saltspoonful cayenne. 

1 tablespoonful butter. ^ cup milk or cream. 

^ teaspoonful salt. . 



444 CHAFING DISH RECIPES 

Break eggs into the upper pan of the chafing-dish, beat 
them well, then add cheese, broken into small bits; butter, 
salt, mustard, cayenne and cream or milk; stir this mixture 
well, until cheese is melted. Serve on crisp toast or on 
toasted thin water-crackers. 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 445 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



^446 CHAFING DISH RECIPES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 447 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



448 CHAFING DISH RECIPES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



BEVERAGES 

Boiling water is a very important desideratum in the 
making of a good cup of coffee or tea, but the average house- 
wife is very apt to overlook this fact. Do not boil the water 
more than three or four minutes; longer boiling ruins the 
water for coffee or tea-making, as most of its natural prop- 
erties escape by evaporation, leaving a very insipid liquid, 
composed mostly of lime and iron, that would ruin the best 
coffee, and give the tea a dark, dead look, when it ought to 
be the reverse. 

."Water left in the tea-kettle over night must never be used 
for preparing the breakfast coffee; no matter how excellent 
your coffee or tea may be, it will be ruined by the addition 
of water that has been boiled more than once. 

THE HEALING PROPERTIES OF TEA AND COFFEE 

The medical properties of these two beverages are con- 
siderable. Tea is used advantageously in inflammatory dis- 
eases and as a cure for the headache. Coffee is supposed to 
act as a preventive of gravel and gout, and to its influence 
is ascribed the rarity of those diseases in France and Turkey. 
Both tea and coffee powerfully counteract the effects of 
opium and intoxicating liquors; though, when taken in ex- 
cess, and without nourishing food, they themselves produce, 
temporarily at least, some of the more disagreeable conse- 
quences incident to the use of ardent spirits. In general, 
however, none but persons possessing great mobility of the 
nervous system, or enfeebled or effeminate constitutions, are 
injuriously affected by the moderate use of tea and coffee 

in connection with food. 

449 



450 BEVERAGES 

MAKINa COFFEE 

1. The coffee should be roasted just before use ; as if kept 
more than one day after roasting there is a decided loss of 
aroma. 

2. The simplest way of roasting coffee is in an enamelled 
frying-pan. Roast the beans over a mild, smokeless fire 
until the beans turn a rich brown color, not black. The 
beans must be constantly stirred and turned, or they will 
burn. 

3. Take one large tablespoonful of coffee powder for each, 
cup of coffee required. 

4. Put the powder into a jug and pour boiling water over 
it in the proportion of half a cupful of water to each table- 
spoonful of coffee powder. The water must be at full boil- 
ing point. 

5. Let the coffee stand in the jug for half an hour, and 
then strain through a linen or cotton bag (muslin is too 
thin) into the coffee-pot, 

GINGER BEER 

10 qts. water. -^ Juice and rind 6 lemons. 

3 lbs. sugar. 6 teaspoonfuls brewer's yeast 

3 oz. ginger. or 6 cakes of yeast. 
3 oz. cream tartar. 

Pour ten quarts of boiling water on sugar, ginger bruised, 
cream of tartar, the thin rind and juice of six lemons. 
When cool add yeast ; let stand two days, bottle and cork. 

BEVERAGE 

3 lemons. 3 lbs. sugar. 

1 oz. tartaric acid. 2 bottles ginger ale. 

Pare rind of lemons as thin as possible, put rinds, white 
sugar and tartaric into a jar and cover with quart boiling 



BEVERAGES 451 

water, and stir till sugar is melted. When cold add the 
juice of the lemons and two quarts of cold water. When 
about to serve add two bottles of ginger ale. 

HTJSSIAN TEA' 

One quart of boiling w^ater poured on two tablespoonfuls 
of black tea ; add large cup or three parts of sugar and the 
juice of four lemons. Let stand two hours, then strain 
through a cloth; add large piece of ice. A delicious drink 
for hot weather. 

CHOCA 

1 pt. milk. 1 scant cup grated chocolate. 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 pt. strong coffee. 

1 pt. boiling water. 10 drops vanilla. 

Scald one pint of milk and add the same amount of boil- 
ing water. Mix together sugar and grated chocolate. Add 
sufficient of the hot liquid to mix to a smooth paste, grad- 
ually dilute and turn into the milk and water, then cook 
gently for five minutes. Add a pinch of salt, coffee, and 
vanilla, and take from the fire. Serve with whipped cream 
for luncheon or 5 o'clock tea. 

GINGEH CORDIAL 



1 gal. whisky. 


i lb. ginger biscuit. 


8 lemons. 


1 qt. water. 


4 lbs. sugar. 


4 lbs. red currants. 



Put the whiskj% lemons and ginger in a crock and let it 
stand for three days, stirring every day; then strain and 
add the sugar, which has been dissolved in the quart of 
water. Stir until all is well mixed ; then bottle. Eeady for 
use at once. 



452 BEVERAGES 

MILK PUNCH 

6 oranges. 1 qt. rum, 

6 lemons. 1 pt. brandy. 

4 qts. water. 2 lbs. sugar. 

1 qt. new milk. 

Pare oranges and lemons as thin as possible. Steep the 
peels in rum and brandy in a close crock for twenty-four 
hours. Squeeze the fruit on sugar; add water and boiling 
hot new milk; then stir the rum and brandy into the above 
and run it through a jelly bag until perfectly clear. Bottle 
and cork at once. It will keep good for some weeks. 

MILK PUNCH 

10 or 12 lemons. 2 bottles rum. 

1 bottle brandy. 1 pt. lime juice. 

1 grated nutmeg. 1 bottle fresh milk. 

2 lbs. sugar. 

Steep rinds cut from lemons in brandy for three days with 
a grated nutmeg; shake frequently. Dissolve sugar in one 
and one-half bottles water, add rum, lime juice and the 
above lemon brandy. Bring one bottle of fresh milk to a 
boil, and that instant pour it into the other ingredients, 
stirring constantly. Let stand twenty-four hours and 
strain through double flannel; cork well. Will keep any 
time. 

CLARET CUP 

6 bottles claret. 6 wine glasses curagao. 

6 bottles soda water. Sugar to taste. 

4 lemons. 

Peel lemons quite thin, throw the rind in bowl and then 
squeeze in the lemons; put a lump of ice in bowl first. 
Then pour claret on top of it, putting claret and soda in 
last. Sugar to taste. For about fifty people. 



BEVERAGES 453 

CLARET CUP (ARMY RECIPE) 

One quart claret, one bottle soda, one-half pound crushed 
ice, four tablespoons sugar, one-quarter teaspoon grated nut- 
meg, wineglass of brandy or maraschino. 

GATE FRAPPE 

1 qt. strong coffee. Sugar to taste. 
"White 1 egg. Whipped cream. 

To coffee sweetened, add the beaten white one egg and 
freeze. Serve in glasses with whipped cream on top, or 
with vanilla ice cream. 

BLACK, OR AFTER-DINNER COFFEE 

One cupful of freshly ground coffee; three large cupfuls 
of freshly boiled water. Make as directed in last recipe, 
running through the filter three times. Serve in small 
cups, and give the drinkers their choice of sugar or no sugar. 
Black coffee is a good digestive agent and is far more whole-' 
some than coffee mixed with cream or milk. 

CAFE AU LAIT 

^ cup coffee. 1^ cups milk. 

2 cups boiling water. 

One-half cupful of ground coffee; two cupfuls of boiling 
water; one cupful and a half of fresh milk. IMake the 
coffee in the usual way. Strain into a coffee-pot or pitcher, 
add the milk, scalding hot, and set for five minutes, closely 
covered, in boiling water. When allowed to cool and then 
iced this is a favorite beverage at hot-weather luncheons and 
picnics. 



464 BEVEKAGES 

CHOCOLATE 

6 tablespoonfuls grated choe- 1 pt. milk, 

olate. Sugar to taste. 

1 pt. boiling water. 

Eub the chocolate to a paste with a little cold water, and 
stir into the hot water. Boil twenty minutes ; add the milk 
and boil ten minutes longer, stirring often. Sweeten in the 
cups. It is improved by laying upon the surface of each 
cup a teaspoonful of cream. 

COCOA 

Boil a pint of water, rub three tablespoonfuls of grated 
cocoa to a smooth paste with cold water, and stir into the 
hot water. Boil ten minutes, hard, and pour upon it a pint 
of hot milk (with a bit of soda in it). Boil for ten minutes 
longer, stirring and beating well. Sweeten in the cups. 

LEMONADE 

4 lemons. 1 qt. water, or a bottle of 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar. Apollinaris. 

Four lemons, rolled, peeled, and sliced ; four large spoon- 
fuls of sugar; one quart of water. Put lemons (sliced) and 
sugar into a pitcher and let them stand for an hour, then 
add water and ice. If you substitute Apollinaris for plain 
water you have a most refreshing drink. 

ORANGEADE 

Make as you would lemonade, but add the juice of a 
lemon, a few bits of shredded orange-peel, and a slice of 
pineapple. Orangeade is insipidly sweet without these 
additions. 



BEVERAGES 455 

EASPBERRY OR BLACKBERRY VINEGAR 

Put a gallon of berries into a great crock and crush them 
well with a potato-beetle or wooden mallet. Cover an inch 
deep in eider-vinegar. Set in the hot sunshine for a day 
and leave all night in the cellar. Stir six times during the 
day of sunning. Strain and squeeze the berries dry and 
throw them away. Put another gallon of mashed berries 
into the strained vinegar and leave again in the sun all day 
and another night in the cellar. On the morrow strain and 
squeeze the berries and measure the liquid thus gained. 
For each quart allow a pint of water, and for every pint 
of the water thus added, five pounds of sugar (you have 
then five pounds of sugar for every three pints of mingled 
juice, vinegar, and water). Turn into a porcelain-lined or 
agate-iron kettle and set over the fire, stirring until the 
sugar melts. Heat to boiling, and boil hard one minute to 
throw up the scum. Skim well, take from the fire, strain 
and, while still warm, bottle. Seal the corks with a mixture 
of beeswax and resin. 

RASPBERRY ROYAL 

is made as in the last recipe, but a pint of fine brandy is 
added to every three quarts of the raspberry vinegar just 
before it is bottled. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL 

Pound and squeeze enough blackberries through a coarse 
muslin bag to make a quart of juice. Put this into an 
agate-iron or porcelain-lined kettle, with a pound of sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls each of grated nutmeg, cinnamon, and all- 
spice, and one teaspoonful of cloves. Tie the spices up in 
little thin muslin bags and stir the sugar until dissolved. 
Set over the fire and cook together, after the boil begins. 



456 BEVERAGES 

fifteen minutes. Take off the scum, turn into a jar, and 
cover closely while it cools. When perfectly cold strain out 
the spices and add a pint of good brandy. Bottle and seal. 
This cordial will keep for years and is valuable in case of 
summer complaint and other intestinal disorders. 



BEVERAGES 457 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



468 BEVERAGES 

WEITTEN RECIPES 



BEVERAGES 459 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



460 BEVERAGES 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



BUTTER AND CHEESE 
TO MAKE BUTTER 

Thoroughly scald the churn, then cool well with ice or 
spring water. Now pour in the thick cream; churn fast at 
first, then, as the butter forms, more slowly, always with 
perfect regularity; in warm weather, pour a little cold 
water into the churn, should the butter form slowly; in 
winter, if the cream is too cold, add a little warm water to 
bring to the proper temperature. When the butter has 
"come," rinse the sides of the churn down with cold water, 
and take the butter up with the perforated dasher or a 
wooden ladle, turning it dexterously just below the surface 
of the buttermilk to catch every stray bit ; have ready some 
very cold water, in a deep wooden tray, and into this plunge 
the dasher when you draw it from the churn ; the butter will 
float off, leaving the dasher free. When you have collected 
all the butter, gather behind a wooden butter-ladle, and 
drain off the water, squeezing and pressing the butter with 
the ladle; then pour on more cold water, and work the 
butter with the ladle to get the milk out, drain off the water, 
sprinkle salt over the butter — a tablespoonful to a pound — 
Avork it in a little, and set in a cool place for an hour to 
harden, then work and knead it until not another drop of 
water exudes, and the butter is perfectly smooth and close 
in texture and polish; then with the ladle make up into 
rolls, little balls, stamped pats, etc. 

The churn, dasher, tray and ladle, should be well scalded 
before using, so that the butter will not stick to them, and 
then cooled with very cold water. 

461 



462 BUTTER AND CHEESE 

"When you skim cream into your cream jar, stir it well 
into what is already there, so that it may all sour alike; 
and no fresh cream should be put with it within twelve 
hours before churning, or the butter will not come quickly, 
and perhaps not at all. 

Butter is indispensable in almost all culinary prepara- 
tions. Good, fresh butter, used in moderation, is easily di- 
gested; it is softening, nutritious, and fattening, and is far 
more easily digested than any other of the oleaginous sub- 
stances sometimes used in its place. 

TO MAKE BUTTER QUICKLY 

Immediately after the cow is milked, strain milk into 
clean pans, and set it over a moderate fire until it is scald- 
ing hot ; do not let it boil ; then set it aside ; when it is cold, 
skim off the cream ; the milk will still be fit for any ordinary 
use; M^hen you have enough cream, put it into a clean 
earthen basin ; beat it with a wooden spoon until the butter 
is made, which will not be long ; then take it from the milk 
and work it with a little cold water, until it is free 
from milk; then drain off the water, put a small tablespoon- 
ful of fine salt to each pound of butter, and work it in. A 
small teaspoonful of fine white sugar, worked in with the 
salt, will be found an improvement — sugar is a great pre- 
servative. Make the butter in a roll; cover it with a bit of 
muslin, and keep it in a cool place. 

A SEINE TO PRESERVE BUTTER 

First work your butter into small rolls, wrapping each 
one carefully in a clean muslin cloth, tying them up with a 
string. Make a brine, say three gallons, having it strong 
enough of salt to bear up an egg; add half a teacupful of 
pure, white sugar, and one tablespoonful of saltpetre; boil 
the brine, and when cold strain it carefully. Pour it over 



BUTTER AND CHEESE 463 

the rolls so as to more than cover them, as this excludes the 
air. Place a weight over all to keep the rolls under the 
surface. 

PTTTTmG TIP BUTTER TO KEEP 

Take of the best pure, common salt two quarts, one ounce 
of white sugar and one of saltpetre ; pulverize them together 
completely. Work the butter well, then thoroughly work 
in an ounce of this mixture to every pound of butter. The 
butter to be made into half-pound rolls, and put into the 
following brine — to three gallons of brine strong enough to 
bear an egg, add a quarter of a pound of white sugar. 

CURDS AND CREAM 

One gallon of milk will make a moderate dish. Put one 
spoonful of prepared rennet to each quart of milk, and 
when you find that it has become curd, tie it loosely in a 
thin cloth and hang it to drain; do not wring or press the 
cloth; when drained, put the curd into a mug and set in 
cool water, which must be frequently changed (a refrigera- 
tor saves this trouble). When you dish it, if there is whey 
in the mug, ladle it gently out without pressing the curd; 
lay it on a deep dish, and pour fresh cream over it; have 
powdered loaf-sugar to eat with it; also hand the nutmeg 
grater. 

NEW JERSEY CREAM CHEESE 

First scald the quantity of milk desired ; let it cool a little, 
then add the rennet; the directions for quantity are given 
on the packages of "Prepared Rennet." When the curd 
is formed, take it out on a ladle without breaking it ; lay it 
on a thin cloth held by two persons ; dash a ladlef ul of water 
over each ladlef ul, of curd, to separate the curd ; hang it up 
to drain the water off, and then put it under a light press 
for one hour; cut. the curd with a thread into small pieces; 



484 BUTTER AND CHEESE 

lay a cloth between each two, and press for an hour; take 
them out, rub them with fine salt, let them lie on a board 
for an hour, and wash them in cold water; let them lie to 
drain, and in a day or two the skin will look dry ; put some 
sweet grass under and over them, and they will soon ripen. 



COTTAGE CHEESE 

Put a pan of sour or loppered milk on the stove or range, 
where it is not too hot; let it scald until the whey rises to 
the top (be careful that it does not boil, or the curd will 
become hard and tough). Place a clean cloth or towel over 
a sieve, and pour this whey and curd into it, leaving it 
covered to drain two or three hours; then put it into a 
dish and chop it fine with a spoon, adding a teaspoonful of 
salt, a tablespoonful of butter and enough sweet cream to 
make the cheese the consistency of putty. With your hands 
make it into little balls flattened. Keep it in a cool place. 
Many like it made rather thin with cream, serving it in a 
deep dish. You may make this cheese of sweet milk, by 
forming the curd with prepared rennet. 



SLIP 

Slip is bonny-clabber without its acidity, and so delicate 
is its flavor that many persons like it just as well as ice- 
cream. It is prepared thus: Make a quart of milk mod- 
erately warm; then stir into it one large spoonful of the 
preparation called rennet; set it by, and when cool again it 
will be as stiff as jelly. It should be made only a few hours 
before it is to be used, or it will be tough and watery; in 
summer set the dish on ice after it has jellied. It must be 
served with powdered sugar, nutmeg and cream. 



BUTTER AXD CHEESE 4G5 

CHEESE FONDTJ 

1 oz. butter. 1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 pt. boiling milk. -J teaspoonful pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 5 oz. grated cheese. 
4 eggs. 

Melt butter, and whisk into it the boiled milk. Dissolve 
flour in a gill of cold milk, add it to the boiled milk and let 
it cool. Beat the yolks of eggs with salt, pepper, and grated 
cheese. Whip the whites of the eggs and add them, pour 
the mixture into a deep tin lined with buttered paper, and 
allow for the rising, say four inches. Bake twenty minutes 
and serve the moment it leaves the oven. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 large cup milk. 4 tablespoonfuls grated 

■| cup breadcrumbs. cheese. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 2 eggs. 
Salt and cayenne. 

One large cup milk, one-half cup scant bread-crumbs. 
Set over boiling water, stir till smooth. Take from fire 
and add butter, grated cheese, salt, cayenne, yolks eggs 
beaten well. Fold in the whites of eggs well beaten. Bake 
in buttered dish for twenty minutes in a pan of hot water. 
Serve at once. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 oz. butter. i pt. milk. 

1 oz. flour. 3 oz. Parmesan cheese. 

A pinch cayenne. 3 eggs. 

A pinch salt. 

Melt butter in a saucepan; mix smoothly with it flour, 
salt and cayenne and milk: simmer the mixture gently over 
the fire, stirring it all the time, till it is as thick as melted 



466 BUTTER AND CHEESE 

butter; stir into it finely-grated cheese. Turn it into a 
basin, and mix with it the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. 
Whisk three whites to a solid froth, and just before the 
souffle is baked put tliem into it, and pour the mixture into 
a small round tin. It should be only half filled, as the 
fondu will rise very high. Pin a napkin around the dish 
in which it is baked, and serve the moment it is baked. It 
would be well to have a metal cover strongly heated. Time 
twenty minutes. Sufficient for six persons. 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. ^ cup milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. ^ cup old cheese. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 3 eggs. 

Pinch of cayenne. 

Make same as white sauce; add yolks and cheese, set to 
cool, then add whites beaten stiff. Put into a greased pud- 
ding dish in medium oven, bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 



CHEESE SOUFFIE 

4 tablespoonfuls grated [2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

cheese. 2 oz. bread 

1 gill milk. ^ teaspoonful mustard. 

3 eggs. Pepper and salt to taste. 

Put the bread and milk on to boil, stir and boil until 
smooth, add the cheese and butter, stir over the fire for one 
minute; take off, add seasoning and the yolks of two eggs. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and stir them 
in carefully; pour into a greased baking-dish and bake 
fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 



BUTTER AND CHEESE 467 

CHEESE SOUF^-'LE 

1 cup milk. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 

3 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 cup grated cheese. Salt and pepper. 

Heat butter, stir in the flour, add the hot milk. Cook 
two minutes. Set away to cool ; when cold stir in the cheese 
and yolks of eggs. Last the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Turn into a buttered dish and bake from twenty 
to twenty-five minutes. Serve in the same dish. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE 

3 slices bread. 4 eggs. 

^ lb. cheese. 3 cups milk. 

Salt and pepper. 

Take three slices of bread, well buttered, first cutting off 
the brown outside crust. Grate fine any kind of good 
cheese; lay the bread in layers in a buttered baking-dish, 
sprinkle over each the grated cheese, some salt and pepper 
to taste. Mix -well-beaten eggs with milk; pour it over the 
bread and cheese. Bake it in a hot oven as you would cook 
a bread pudding. This makes an ample dish for four 
people. 

CHEESE RAMAKINS 

Take the remains or odd pieces of any light puff-paste 
left from pies or tarts ; gather up the pieces of paste, roll it 
out evenly, and sprinkle it with grated cheese of a nice 
flavor. Fold the paste in three, roll it out again, and 
sprinkle more cheese over; fold the paste, roll it out, and 
with a paste-cutter shape it in any way that may be desired. 
Bake the ramakins in a brisk oven from ten to fifteen min- 
utes, dish them on a hot napkin, and serve quickly. The 
appearance of this dish may be very much improved by 



468 BUTTER AND CHEESE 

briisliiug the ranialdns over with yolk of egg before they 
are placed in the oven. Where expense is not objected to, 
Parmesan is the best kind of cheese to use for making this 
dish. 

CAYENNE CHEESE STRAWS 

^ lb. flour. A pinch of salt. 

2 oz. butter. A little cayenne. 

2 oz. Parmesan cheese. 1 egg (yolk). 

IMix into a paste with the yolk of an egg. Roll out to 
the thickness of a silver quarter, about four or five inches 
long; cut into strips about a third of an inch wide, twist 
them as you would a paper spill, and lay them on a baking- 
sheet slightly floured. Bake in a moderate oven until crisp, 
but they must not be the least brown. If put away in a 
tin, these cheese straws will keep a long time. Serve cold, 
piled tastefully on a glass dish. You can make the straws 
of remnants of puff-pastry, rolling in the grated cheese. 

CHEESE CREAM TOAST 

Stale bread may be served as follows: Toast the slices 
and cover them slightly wdth grated cheese; make a cream 
for ten slices out of a pint of milk and tAvo tablespoonfuls 
of plain flour. The milk should be boiling, and the flour 
mixed in a little cold water before stirring in. When the 
cream is nicely cooked, season with salt and butter; set the 
toast and cheese in the oven for three or four minutes, and 
then pour the cream over them. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

2 oz. butter. 2 oz. cheese. 

2 oz. flour. Salt and cayenne. 

2 oz. breadcrumbs. 



BUTTER AND CHEESE 469 

Grate the cheese and mix the ingredients into a paste; 
season with the pepper and salt ; roll out very thin and cut 
into strips quarter of an inch wide and six inches long, then 
twist several times and lay on a buttered tin dish. Bake 
about five minutes. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE 

2 cups macaroni (boiled). 3 tablespoonfuls gi'^ted 
1 tablespoonful butter. cheese. 

1 tablespoonful flour. | teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup sweet milk, J teaspoonful cayenne. 

Put butter and flour in saucepan, stir until well blended ; 
add milk, stir until it comes to a boil, add salt, pepper and 
cheese; stir until cheese melts; turn boiled macaroni into 
the sauce; stir well, turn into a dish, sprinkle with fine 
bread-crumbs and brown in oven. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

3 oz. flour. ^ tablespoonful salt. 

4 oz. grated cheese (Par- Dash of cayenne, 
mesan is best). i lb. butter. 

Mix flour with grated cheese, add salt, cayenne, and butter. 
Work this to a smooth paste sufficiently stiff to roll; add a 
very little water, if necessary. Roll out in very thin strips 
and cut into straws, place on a greased tin and bake ten 
minutes in a moderate oven. They must be straw color and 
very crisp. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Two ounces each of butter, flour, bread crumbs and grated 
cheese, salt and pepper to taste. Mix these ingi-edients into a 
paste, roll it a quarter of an inch thick, cut into narrow 
strips. Bake until a light brown color. Serve cold. 



470 BUTTER AND CHEESE 

CHEESE STRAWS 

2 oz. flour. 1 egg. 

2 oz. butter. A little salt and cayenne. 

3 oz, cheese. 

Grate the cheese and mix all together; roll out and cut 
into thin strips with a pastry cutter and bake in a flat tin. 

SCALLOPED CHEESE 

1 cup bread crumbs. -J lb. grated cheese. 

2 cups milk. 1 tablespoonful butter. 

3 eggs. Salt and pepper. 

Roll bread crumbs, soak until soft "n milk; mix with eggs 
beaten light, add grated cheese and butter in small pieces. 
Salt and pepper to taste. Put all in baking dish and cover 
the top with sifted bread crumbs which have been buttered, 
peppered and salted. Bake fifteen minutes. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

One cup grated cheese, one cup flour, one-half cup butter; 
rub together and wet with water like pie-paste, roll thin and 
cut in strips ; quick oven ; just cut enough at one time for 
oven. 

CHEESE FONDU 

1 tablespoonful butter. 6 tablespoonf uls grated 

1 tablespoonful flour. cheese. 

Gill hot cream. Saltspoonful salt. 

3 eggs. Pinch cayenne. 

Put in a saucepan butter and when melted stir in flour 
and hot cream. Stir constantly and when thick and smooth 
stir in grated cheese, salt and cayenne. Turn out into a 
bowl and beat in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Beat the 



BtTTTER AND CHEESE 471 

whites of three eggs as stiff as possible; have the baking 
dish heated and buttered, and just fifteen minutes before 
the fondu is wanted mix in the whites very quickly and 
lightly and bake. The oven should be hot, but not over hot, 
and the fondu should rise to twice its original height. 



472 BUTTER AND CHEESE 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



BUTTER AND CHEESE 473 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



474 BUTTER AND CHEESE 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



BUTTER AND CHEESE 475 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



MISCELLANEOUS 
HOT TARTARE SAUCE 

1 tablespoonful butter. 1 teaspoonful of vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful chopped cucum- 
"Water to make sauce. ber pickles. 

Yolk of 1 egg. 

Melt butter in saucepan; stir in flour, enough boiling 
water to make it not too thick; let stand to cool five min- 
utes, then drop in yolk of egg and beat up and add a little 
more butter and water if too thick; then add vinegar and 
one teaspoonful of chopped pickled cucumber. 

APPLE STUFFING 

1 pt. tart apple sauce. 1 onion, chopped. 

1 cup breadcrumbs. Salt and pepper. 

For roast goose, duck and game. 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Blanch almonds by pouring boiling water over and allow- 
ing them to stand till the skins slip off easily. Lay on tins 
with small lumps of butter and place in a hot oven, stirring 
occasionally. When almonds are a golden brown take from 
oven, sprinkle w^ith fine salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
cover with another tin and shake thoroughly. 

S's. 

1 lb. flour. Yolks 5 eggs. 

^ lb. butter. Almonds crushed. 

^ lb. sugar. 

476 



MISCELLANEOUS 477 

Mix well together and put on ice to cool; then form into 
S's; put on ice again till quite hard, then dip into egg and 
sugar, or almonds. Bake till brown. 



LAPLANDS 

5 eggs. 1 pt. flour or a little more. 

1 pt, cream. 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of eggs; add cream 
and flour enough to make the consistency of pound cake. 
Bake in small tins in a quick oven and serve very hot. 



HUNGRY BOYS' LUNCH 

Cut thick slices of bread, set in wen to get warm. Fry 
sausages in a little dripping until well browned, dredge flour 
over and when well browned pour in boiling water. Gravy 
should be thick, rich and plenty of it. Arrange three sau- 
sages on each slice and pour gravy over after putting slices 
on hot plates. A winter dish. 



SPAGHETTI 

Boil in milk in double boiler till tender and thickening. 
Add lump of butter, salt, pepper, and for medium sized dish 
half cup grated cheese and two cups tomatoes. Turn into 
baking dish, cover with crumbs and brown. 



BOUCHEES A LA REINE 

1 chicken, minced. TruflBe. 

2 oz. ham. A gill cream. 
6 mushrooms, minced. Yolks 2 eggs. 



478 MISCELLANEOUS 

Make some caisses of puff paste, or line little moulds with 
the paste. Put into a stewpan white sauce, add the chicken, 
ham, etc., when it is hot add the cream and lastly stir in the 
yolks of eggs. Fill the caisses and serve. 



BATTER FOR TIMBALES 

1 cup flour. 1 egg. 

^ pt. milk. Lard for frying. 

Put the flour into a basin; drop in yolk of egg. Stir in 
the milk by degrees. Whip the white to a stiff froth and 
add lightly. Dip your hot iron into this and fry in deep 
boiling lard. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

One-half teaspoon mustard, two teaspoons granulated 
sugar, salt and pepper to taste, one-quarter cup vinegar, one- 
quarter cup grated horseradish. Mix mustard and sugar, 
vinegar, etc.; add radish; three-quarters cup whipped 
cream. 

COLD SAVORY 

1 pt. whipped cream. Grated cheese. 

1 oz. gelatine. 

Put in tiny moulds when cold, turn out and serve on let- 
tuce leaves, with a slice of tomato under each leaf. 



SAVORY 

Yolk 1 egg. Pepper, salt and cayenne to 

1 tablespoonful cream. taste. 

1 oz. breadcrumbs. Toasted bread. 

2 oz. grated cheese. 



MISCELLANEOUS 479 

Pour the mixture on the toast, brown in oven and aerv« 
very hot. 

KING KALAKTJA'S CTJREY FOR SHRIMPS AND 
CHICKEN 

1 coeoanut. A few shreds onion, 

1 clove. 2 tablespoonfuls curry. 

1 piece ginger size of nutmeg. 1 qt. new milk. 
!A little garlic. 

Ingredients — Grate coeoanut, clove, garlic and ginger, and 
add onion, curry powder, and milk. Put all these on stove 
and let simmer for an hour or so, until all the oil is quite 
extracted from the coeoanut; strain, pressing the coeoanut 
quite dry. 

For shrimps — Heat again, adding a little butter, salt and 
corn-starch to bring to consistency of rich, smooth cream, 
and add the shrimps in time to heat well through. 

For chicken or any meat preferred — Omit the onion in 
the first preparation, which put in the pan with a big 
spoonful of butter; stir until hot, then add chicken cut in 
small pieces; stir until the glaze is formed, and add only 
sufficient water to cook the meat thoroughly and slowly; 
when done turn into it the curry mixture and thicken with 
corn-starch. In the tropics rice is always served in a sep- 
arate dish, to be eaten with any curry, cut limes or lemons, 
and mango chutney; also "Bombay Ducks," a kind of long, 
thin, dried fish, about half an inch wide and six inches long, 
very crisp. These accompaniments are handed together on 
a tray. 

MOUSSE 

1 lb. cooked ham. 'A very little glaze. 

1 pt. cream. 1 liqueur of brandy, 

i pt. aspic jelly (liquid). Salt and pepper. 



480 MISCELLANEOUS 

Mode. — Have ready a saucepan with the aspic just warm, 
mince the ham and pass through a wire sieve, add it to the 
aspic with the glaze brandy and pepper, whip the cream a 
little thick and add half a pint ; then whisk over a slow fire 
until the ingredients are well mixed (do not allow it to get 
too hot), take it off the fire and slowly stir in the remaining 
half pint of cream ; put a little cochineal to make the mousse 
a nice pink (the color of ham) ; pour the whole into a 
souffle dish and let it stand to get quite cold. When it is 
quite set, pour over the top a little aspic; let this also set, 
then ornament with truffles or white of egg. Sufficient for 
eight persons. Seasonable at any time. 

LEMON CHEESE 

J lb. fresh butter. 3 eggs well beaten. 

3 lemons, juice. 1 lb. sugar. 

Peel of 1 lemon. 

Make in double boiler, boiling to the consistency of thick 
honey — stirring all the while. 



HEAD CHEESE 

Take a half dozen pigs' feet and two hocks, clean 
thoroughly and cut in pieces, and put them in a large pot, 
and cover them with cold water. When the hocks are very 
tender remove them and cut up the meat in small pieces, 
but do not use the fat. Let the pigs' feet cook on, adding 
a good large onion, and let them reduce. Strain the juice 
and add it to the meat of the hocks. Put in pepper and 
salt to taste, and cinnamon and cloves to taste. Put all 
back in the pot to simmer a few minutes. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of sherry or more according to taste, and put into 
moulds. 



MISCELLANEOUS 481 

SPANISH CREAM 

3 pts. milk. 8 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 box gelatine. Whites 6 eggs beaten stiff. 

Yolks 6 eggs. 

Soak gelatine in half of the milk for an hour. Scald the 
rest of the milk, then stir in the gelatine. The yolks of 
beaten eggs and eight tablespoons of sugar. Take from the 
fire and allow to cool, when put in the beaten whites and 
turn into a mould. 



ALEXANDRA ROLL 

Butter sparingly some thin brown bread, have ready some 
cold game or chicken pounded, about a third of its bulk of 
fresh butter, a few capers, a washed and boned anchovy for 
every ounce or so of chicken, and a good seasoning of 
cayenne pepper. Spread the bread and butter with this 
mixture, roll up cigar fashion, butter the top very lightly 
and roll half of these (cigars) in finely minced parsley and 
the other half in lobster coral or coralline pepper. 



CANOPE DE LUXE 

Lightly butter some round pieces of toasted brown bread 
and place on each a slice of hard-boiled egg seasoned with 
oil, vinegar (or lemon juice), coralline pepper and salt. 
On this place a small teaspoonful of caviar seasoned with oil 
and lemon juice and top of all a shelled prawn or a stuffed 
olive. 



4S2 MISCELLANEOUS 

PLAIN RICE CAKE 

2 eggs. 3 cups rice, ground. 

2 large tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 cup flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

ter or cream. der. 

2 large cups milk. 

Beat eggs, add sugar; melted butter or cream; and milk. 
]Mix into a stiff batter with ground rice and flour in pro- 
portion of three cups of rice to one of flour; add baking 
powder last; the sugar may be melted if desired. 

ONION SAUCE FOR FOWL OR GAME 

4 tablespoonfuls flour. 1 pt. milk. 

■| pt. cream or milk. | cup chopped onions. 

'A pinch of salt. 

Mix flour and salt with cream. Bring milk to a boil and 
slowly add the first mixture, stirring gently. "When thick, 
stir in onions cut very fine and boiled very soft. 

KIDGRIE, OR DRY CITRRY 

1 fowl. 2 teaspoonfuls curry powdei? 

Butter and lard. or paste. 

4 onions. 1 teacup hot water. 

Cut a fowl into pieces the size of a walnut, put into a 
stewpan with a little lard and stir until nearly cooked. Cut 
onions into thin slices, place them in another stewpan with 
a little lard or butter, grill until nicely browned, when add 
a little more butter or lard, with curry; stir a few minutes. 



^riSCELLANEOUS 483 

Then add the contents of the two saucepans together and 
stir until the meat is sufficiently cooked. After adding a 
teacup of water, allow to stand a short time before serving. 



DECORATION FOR A HOT DAY 

A pleasant decoration for a hot day may be made of a 
block of ice set in a pan deep enough to hold the drippings, 
but placed on something to raise it above the sides of the 
pan. The pan should be concealed with moss and ferns, or 
flowers, arranged around it loosely so as to partly conceal 
the ice also. A hole cut through the centre of the block of 
ice, and a flat candle, such as are used in night lamps, 
placed within it, gives a brilliant and lovely effect. The 
block of ice should be cut square and weigh at least ten 
pounds. This decoration is easily managed in the country, 
"where ferns are readily obtainable. 



FANCY COOKING 

Fancy cooking has an interest quite as engaging as other 
occupations of diversion. Fine cooking utensils, gas-stoves, 
and modern conveniences, make the well-appointed kitchen 
as attractive as the laboratory or workshop. Trying a new 
dish has the same interest as any other experiment. The 
construction of ornamental pieces is as interesting as other 
fancy work. Making puff-paste, ice-creams, fancy mould- 
ing of desserts and salads, boiling sugar, etc., are in reality 
simple processes, and with very little practice found to be 
as easy to prepare as dishes which from familiarity have 
come to be called plain cooking. Skill and dexterity of 
hand may be enjoyed in boning, trussing, and larding, and 



484 . MISCELLANEOUS 

taste shown in decorating with truffles and other articles, in 
moulding with flowers and fruits. 

HOW TO STONE OnVES 

With a sharp-pointed knife cut through the olive to the 
stone on the blossom end and pare off the meat, turning 
the olive around three times, keeping the knife at not too 
sharp an angle close to the stone. The meat will then be in 
one curled piece, which can be pressed into its original shape 
again. 

HOW TO CUT BACON 

Place the bacon on a board with the rind down. With 
a very sharp knife slice the bacon very thin down to the 
rind, but do not try to cut through it. AVhen enough slices 
are cut run the knife under, keeping it close to the rind, 
and the slices will be free. 

FUENITTJIIE POLISH 

Half a pint of linseed oil, half a pint of vinegar, half a 
pint of turpentine, half a pint of spirits of wine. 

STOVE POLISH 

One-half pint of turpentine, one pint of water, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of sugar, one box of 
polish, or rather black lead (six cakes). 

POLISH FOIt MOROCCO FURNITURE 

Scrape down sufficient red castile soap into turpentine to 
boil into a paste about the consistency of soft soap ; then rujb 
on any red morocco furniture with a piece of flannel and 
rub off very dry. Be careful and watch the mixture while 
on the stove, as turpentine catches fire very easily. This 
will keep furniture soft and polished. 

HOW TO WASH DISHES 

To many women the washing of dishes is always distaste- 
ful. The only way in which this can be accounted for is 



mSCELLANEOUS 485 

that the proper method of washing dishes is not generally 
understood. When a young woman is heard to exclaim, 
"I hate to wash dishes," it may be taken for granted that 
she is not a trained worker. When once the correct method 
of washing them is properly understood the task will lose 
all its distastefulness and becomes interesting, even if not 
pleasurable. 

Before you begin to wash at all arrange a good, dry 
place to put your dishes when they are dry. Arrange so 
that you have room enough without letting clean dishes 
touch soiled ones or being obliged to put dry dishes on a 
wet spot. 

Begin with the glass, and see that every glass is emptied. 
Cold water in one, some milk in another, claret in another, 
will soon make your dishwater unfit to wash anything in. 
After the glass, take the delicate china cups and saucers and 
dessert plates. Put your mind on your work. See that 
each piece before it leaves your hand is clean and dry. By 
the time the glass and fine china are washed, the water will 
be chilled, so either throw it out and make fresh suds for 
the silver, or put it on the stove to reheat while putting the 
clean dishes away. 

When your silver is dry, put it away. Do not let it lie 
where it will be spattered from the washing of the next 
things. Now use your own judgment and see whether the 
water is clean enough and hot enough for the dishes. Never 
put many dishes to wash in at one time. Put dishes of one 
kind in at one time and dishes of another kind in at an- 
other time. There is economy in the washing of dishes, as 
well as in everything else, and every good housekeeper's 
experience has been that the best way of doing it is to make 
a good hot suds in one pan, have a second pan half filled with 
very hot water, and as the dish is washed in the suds put 
it right through the hot water, thus making sure that every 
part is rinsed, then allow to drain on the draining board, 



486 MISCELLANEOUS 

or in another pan. By the time a panful of dishes are 
■washed, rinsed, and drained, they are still hot enough to 
wipe, and you will not need more than one or two towels. 
In making the suds, be careful that it is not too strong, as 
too much soap quickly takes off color and gilding from the 
fine china. Never leave the soap in the water. Then you 
can work rapidly. Change the water when it is necessary. 
Never on any account leave the dishes in the water while 
you go to attend to something else. To do so injures the 
gilding and coloring. Remember, if you are quick you can 
do a great deal before the water cools, and you ]fyill have to 
change it only jvhen it is soiled. 

THINGS TO REMEMBEE 

'A dash of salt added to the whites of eggs makes them 
>vhip better. 

Not a speck of the yolk must get into the whites :which are 
to be whipped. 

Fold the whipped whites into any mixture rather than 
stir them in, as the latter method breaks the air cells. 

Break eggs one at a time into a saucer, so any can be re- 
jected if necessary and the mixture not be spoiled. 

Add a tablespoonful of water to an egg used for crumb- 
ing in order to remove the stringiness. 

Use a double boiler for milk. 

Milk is scalded when the water in the lower pan boils. 

A pinch of bi-carbonate of soda mixed with tomato before 
milk or cream is added prevents the milk from curdling. 

"With sour milk, or molasses, use soda instead of baking 
powder. 

Milk and butter should be kept in closely covered vessels, 
as they readily absorb flavor and odor from other articles. 

Butter added slowly in small bits to creamy mixtures, or 
sauces, prevents a greasy line forming. 



MISCELLANEOUS 487 

Crumbs grated directly from the loaf gives ai more deli- 
cate color than dried crumbs to fried articles. 

Dried crumbs absorb more moisture, and are better for 
watery dishes. 

Crumbs spread over the tops of dishes should be mixed 
evenly with melted butter over the fire; this is a better 
method than having lumps of butter dotted over the crumbs 
after they are spread. 

When the sauce bubbles through the crumbs on top of a 
scallop dish, the cooking is completed. 

Meat should not be washed. It can be cleaned by rub- 
bing with a wet cloth, or by scraping with a knife. 

Drippings are better than water for basting meats. 

Meats should not be pierced while cooking. 

Soak salt fish with the skin side up over night. Change 
the water several times. 

To skim sauces, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, 
throw in a teaspoonful of cold water, and the grease will 
rise so that it can be easily taken off. 

A few drops of onion juice improve made-over meat 
dishes ; not enough need be used to give a pronounced onion 
flavor. 

The skimming from soups, drippings from any beef 
roasts, and trimmings from any beef, serve the same uses as 
lard, cottolene, or butter. 

To extract onion juice, press the raw surface of an onion 
against a grater, move it slightly, and the juice will run off 
the point of the gi'ater. 

Chop suet in a cool place, and sprinkle it with flour to 
prevent its oiling and sticking together. Remove the mem- 
brane before chopping it. 

Add a few drops of rose-water to almonds to prevent their 
oiling when chopped or pounded. 

To loosen grated peel, or other articles, from the grater, 
strike the grater sharply on the table. 



488 MISCELLANEOUS 

When mixing a liquid with a solid material, add but little 
liquid at a time and stir constantly to prevent lumping. 

When adding cornstarch, arrowroot, or any starchy ma- 
terial to hot liquid, first mix it with enough cold water, or 
milk, to make it fluid ; pour it in slowly and stir constantly 
until it becomes clear. 

Soak gelatine in a cool place for an hour in cold water or 
milk. It will then quickly dissolve in hot liquid and have no 
odor. If jellied dishes do not stiffen, add more gelatine; 
boiling down will not effect the purpose. 

Grease moulds evenly with butter or oil, using a brush. 
Lumps of butter on the side of moulds leave an uneven sur- 
face on the article cooked or moulded in them. Moulds for 
jellies are not greased. 

Invert a dish over a mould before turning it, so that the 
form will not break; also, place it in exactly the right spot 
before lifting off the mould. 

It is desirable to pass all liquid mixtures through a 
strainer to make them perfectly smooth. 

To keep dishes w^arm until time for serving, place the 
saucepan in a pan of hot water. 

Any flavoring is added after the mixture is cooked, ex- 
cepting for baked dishes. Wine increases the taste of salt, 
therefore, where wine is used for flavoring, very little salt 
should be put in until after the wine is used, when more can 
be added if necessary. 

Dishes which are to be frozen need an extra amount of 
sweetening. 

Flour raisins before adding them to a mixture in order 
to prevent their settling to the bottom. 

Never slam the oven door, or jar any rising material while 
it is baking. 

Anything being cooked for the second time needs a hot 
oven. 



MISCELLANEOUS 489 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



490 MISCELLANEOUS 

WRITTEN EECIPES 



MISCELLANEOUS 491 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



492 MISCELLANEOUS 

WBITTEN RECIPES 



DISHES FOR THE SICK 

Dishes for invalids should be served in the daintiest and 
most attractive way ; never send more than a supply for one 
meal ; the same dish too frequently set before an invalid often 
causes a distaste, when perhaps a change would tempt the 
appetite. 

When preparing dishes where milk is used, the condition 
of the patient should be considered. Long cooking hardens 
the albumen and makes the milk very constipating ; then, if 
the patient should be already constipated, care should be 
taken not to heat the milk above the boiling point. 

The seasoning of food for the sick should be varied oc- 
cording to the condition of the patient ; one recovering from 
illness can partake of a little piece of roast mutton, chicken, 
rabbit, game, fish, simply dressed, and simple puddings are 
all light food and easily digested. A mutton chop, nicely 
cut, trimmed and broiled, is a dish that is often inviting to 
an invalid. As a rule, an invalid will be more likely to enjoy 
any preparation sent to him if it is served in small, delicate 
pieces. As there are so many small, dainty dishes that can be 
made for this purpose, it seems useless to try to more than 
give a small variety of them. Puddings can be made of pre- 
pared barley, or tapioca, well soaked before boiling, with 
an egg added, and a change can be made of light puddings 
by mixing up some stewed fruit with the puddings before 
baking; a bread pudding from stale bread-crumbs, and a 
tiny cup-custard, boiled in a small basin or cup ; also various 
drinks, such as milk punch, wine, whey, apple-toddy, and 
various other nourishing drinks. 

493 



494 FOR THE SICK 

BEEFSTEAK AND MUTTON CHOPS 

Select the tenderest cuts, and broil over a clear, hot fire. 
Let the steak be rare, the chops well done. Salt and pepper ; 
lay between two hot plates three minutes, and serve to your 
patient. If he is very weak, do not let him swallow anything 
except the juice, when he has chewed the meat well. The 
essence of rare beef roasted or broiled, thus expressed, is con- 
sidered by some physicians to be more strengthening than 
beef-tea prepared in the usual manner. 

BEEF TEA 

One pound of lean beef, cut into small pieces. Put into 
a glass canning-jar without a drop of water; cover tightly, 
and set in a pot of cold water. Heat gradually to a boil, 
and continue this steadily for three or four hours, until the 
meat is like white rags, and the juice all drawn out. Season- 
with salt to taste, and when cold, skim. 

VEAL OR MUTTON BROTH 

Take a scrag-end of mutton (two pounds), put it in a 
saucepan, with two quarts of cold water, and an ounce of 
pearl barley or rice. When it is coming to a boil, skim it 
well, then add half a teaspoonful of salt ; let it boil until half 
reduced, then strain it, and take off all the fat, and it is 
ready for use. This is excellent for an invalid. If vege- 
tables are liked in this broth, take one turnip, one carrot, 
and one onion, cut them in shreds, and boil them in the broth 
half an hour. In that case, the barley may be served with 
the vegetables in broth. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

Put four tablespoonfuls of the best grits (oatmeal coarsely 
ground) into a pint of boiling water. Let it boil gently and 



FOR THE SICK 495 

stir it often, till it becomes as thick as you wish it. Then 
strain it, and add to it while warm, butter, wine, nutmeg, or 
whatever is thought proper to flavor it. Salt to taste. If 
you make the gruel of fine oatmeal, sift it, mix it first to a 
thick batter with a little cold water, and then put it into 
the sauce-pan of boiling water. Stir it all the time it is 
boiling, lifting the spoon gently up and down, and letting 
the gruel fall slowly back again into the pan. 

ORAN&E ALBUMEN 

Juice of half an orange, white of an egg, tablespoonful of 
water, sugar to sweeten; strained through muslin; lemon 
can be used. 

CALVES-FOOT JELLY 

4 calves' feet. 1 stick of cinnamon. 

^ box. gelatine. Sugar to taste. 

Juice of 3 lemons. Whites 4 eggs. 

Grated rind of 1 lemon. 1 pt. sherry. 

Four calves' feet. Get the butcher to clean them 
thoroughly and remove the hoof-horns. If not sufficiently 
white, pour boiling water over them and scrape with a knife. 
Divide each foot in half; place over the fire in a preserving 
pan, three parts full of cold water, adding a pinch of salt. 
Boil till the meat comes to shreds, adding water occasionally, 
and the bones separate easily. Strain, set aside to cool (the 
liquid should measure about two quarts). When cool skim 
off every particle of fat, rejecting the sediment beneath the 
jelly. Add one-third of a box of gelatine dissolved in 
the boiling stock; take off the fire, add the juice of three 
lemons and grated rind of one, a stick of cinnamon, and 
sugar to taste. Beat up with these the whites of four eggs 
and broken shells slightly beaten, set on the fire again and 
boil a few minutes till a thick scum rises to the top. Set the 



496 FOR THE SICK 

pan on the back of the stove one minute, then pour slowly 
through a flannel jelly bag, returning till the jelly is clear. 
When finished add a pint of sherry. The bag should be 
suspended in front of the oven and not moved, or the jelly 
will be cloudy. Cold air must be excluded. 

EGG GRUEL 

Beat the yolk of an egg with one tablespoonful of sugar; 
pour one teacupful of boiling water on it ; add the white of 
an egg, beaten to a froth, with any seasoning or spice de- 
sired. Take warm. 

MILK PORRIDGE 

The same as arrovn^oot, excepting it should be all milk, 
and thickened with a scant tablespoonful of sifted flour; let 
it boil five minutes, stirring it constantly, add a little cold 
milk, and give it one boil up, and it is ready for use. 

ARROWROOT MILK PORRIDGE 

1 large cup new milk. 1 teaspoonful arrowroot. 

1 cup boiling water. A pinch of salt. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Put the sugar into the milk, the salt into the boiling water, 
which should be poured into a farina-kettle. Add the arrow- 
root, make into paste with cold water, and boil, stirring con- 
stantly until it is clear; put in the milk, and cook ten 
minutes, stirring often. Give while warm, adding hot milk 
should it be thicker than gruel. 

SLIPPERY-ELM BARK TEA 

Break the bark into bits, pour boiling water over it, cover, 
and let it infuse until cold. Sweeten, ice, and take for sum- 
mer disorders, or add lemon juice and drink for a bad cold. 



FOR THE SICK 497 

FLAX-SEED LEMONADE 

To a large tablespoonful of flax-seed, allow a tumbler and 
a half of cold water. Boil them together till the liquid 
becomes very sticky. Then strain it hot over a quarter of a 
pound of pulverized sugar, and an ounce of pulverized gum 
arable. Stir it till quite dissolved, and squeeze into it the 
juice of a lemon. This mixture has frequently been found 
an efficacious remedy for a cold, taking a wine-glass of it as 
often as the cough is troublesome. 

HOMINY 

Put to soak one pint of hominy in two and one-half pints 
of boiling water over night, in a tin vessel with a tight 
cover; in the morning add one-half pint of sweet milk, and a 
little salt. Place on a brisk fire in a kettle of boiling water, 
the tin vessel containing the hominy; let boil one-half hour. 

Cracked wheat, oatmeal, mush, are all good food for the 
sick. 

CHICKEN JELLY 

Cook a chicken in enough water to little more than cover 
it; let it stew gently until the meat drops from the bones, 
and the broth is reduced to about a pint ; season it to taste, 
with a little salt and pepper. Strain and press, first through 
a colander, then through a coarse cloth. Set it over the fire 
again, and cook a few minutes longer. Turn it into an 
earthen vegetable dish to harden ; set it on the ice in the re- 
frigerator. Eat cold in slices. Nice made into sandwiches, 
with thin slices of bread, lightly spread with butter. 

BOILED RICE 

Boil half a cupful of rice in just enough water to cover it, 
with half a teaspoonful of salt ; when the water has boiled 
nearly out and the rice begins to look soft and dry, turn over 



498 FOR THE SICK 

it a cupful of milk, and let it simmer until the rice is done 
and nearly dry ; take from the fire and beat in a well-beaten 
egg. Eat it warm with cream and sugar. Flavor to taste. 

SOFT TOAST 

Toast well, but not too brown, tw^o thin slices of stale 
bread; put them on a warm plate, sprinkle with a pinch of 
salt and pour upon them some boiling water; quickly cover 
with another dish of the same size, and drain off the water. 
Put a very small bit of butter on the toast and serve at once 
while hot. 

EGG TOAST 

Brown a slice of bread nicely over the coals, dip it in hot 
water slightly salted, butter it, and lay on the top an egg 
that has been broken into boiling water, and cooked until the 
white has hardened ; season the egg with a bit of butter and 
a crumb of salt. 

The best way to cook eggs for an invalid is to drop them, 
or else pour boiling water over the egg in the shell and let 
it stand for a few minutes on the back of the stove. 

OYSTER TOAST 

Make a nice slice of dry toast, butter it and lay it on a 
hot dish. Put six oysters, half a teacupful of their own 
liquor, and half a cupful of milk, into a tin cup or basin, and 
boil one minute. Season with a little butter, pepper and 
salt, then pour over the toast and serve. 

MULLED JELLY 

Take one tablespoonful of currant or grape jelly; beat 
with it the white of one egg and a teaspoonf ul of sugar ; pour 
on it a teacupful of boiling water, and break in a slice of 
dry toast or two crackers. 



FOR THE SICK 499 

CUP CUSTARD 
Break an egg into a coffee-cup, put in two teaspoonfuls of 
sugar, beat it up thoroughly, a pinch of salt and a pinch of 
grated nutmeg ; fill up the cup with good sweet milk ; turn it 
into another cup, well buttered, and set it in a pan of boiling 
water, reaching nearly to the top of the cup. Set in the 
oven, and when the custard is set it is done. 

CRACKER PANADA 

Break in pieces three or four hard crackers that are baked 
quite brown, and let them boil fifteen minutes in one quart 
of water; then remove from the fire, let them stand three 
or four minutes, strain off the liquor through a fine wire 
sieve, and season it with sugar. This is a nourishing bever- 
age for infants that are teething, and with the addition of a 
little wine and nutmeg, is often prescribed for invalids re- 
covering from a fever. 

BREAD PANADA 

Put three gills of water and one tablespoonful of white 
sugar on the fire, and just before it boils add two table- 
spoonfuls of the crumbs of stale white bread ; stir it well, and 
let it boil three or four minutes ; then add one glass of white 
wine, a grated lemon and a little nutmeg ; let it boil up once, 
then remove it from the fire, and keep it closely covered until 
it is wanted for use. 

SLIPPERY-ELM TEA 

Put a teaspoonful of powdered slippery-elm into a tum- 
bler, pour cold water upon it, and season with lemon and 
sugar. 

TOAST WATER, OR CRUST COFFEE 

Take stale pieces of crust of bread, the end pieces of the 
loaf ; toast them a nice, dark brown, care to be taken that 



500 FOR THE SICK 

they do not burn in the least, as that affects the flavorf 
Put the browned crusts into a large milk pitcher, and pour 
enough boiling water over to cover them; cover the pitcher 
closely, and let steep until cold. Strain, and sweeten to 
taste; put a piece of ice in each glass. This is also good, 
drank warm with cream and sugar, similar to coffee. 

POWDERS FOR CHILDREN 

A very excellent carminative powder for flatulent infants 
may be kept in the house, and employed with advantage 
whenever the child is in pain or griped, dropping five grains 
of oil of anise-seed and two of peppermint on half an 
ounce of lump sugar, and rubbing it in a mortar, with a 
drachm of magnesia, into a fine powder. A small quantity 
of this may be given in a little water at any time, and always 
with benefit. 

FOR CHILDREN TEETHING 

Tie a quarter of a pound of wheat flour in a thick cloth, 
and boil it in one quart of water for three hours; then re- 
move the cloth and expose the flour to the air or heat until 
it is hard and dry; grate from it, when wanted, one table- 
spoonful, which put into half a pint of new milk, and stir 
over the fire until it comes to a boil, when add a pinch of 
salt and a tablespoonful of cold water, and serve. This gruel 
is excellent for children afflicted with summer complaint. 
Or, brown a tablespoonful of flour in the oven or on top of 
the stove on a baking-tin; feed a few pinches at a time to a 
child, and it will often check a diarrhoea. The tincture of 
"kino" — of which from ten to thirty drops, mixed with a 
little sugar and water in a spoon, and given every two or 
three hours, is very efficacious and harmless — can be pro- 
cured at almost any druggist's. Tablespoon doses of pure 
cider vinegar, and a pinch of salt, has cured when all else 
failed. 



FOR THE SICK 601 

BLACKKBERRY CORDIAL 

This recipe may be found under the head of "Beverages." 
It will be found an excellent medicine for children teething 
and summer diseases. 

POULTICES 

A Bread and Milk Poultice. — Put a tablespoonful of the 
. crumbs of stale bread into a gill of milk, and give the whole 
one boil up. Or, take stale bread-crumbs, pour over them 
boiling water and boil till soft, stirring well; take from the 
fire and gradually stir in a little glycerine or sweet oil, so as 
to render the poultice pliable when applied. 

A Hop Poultice. — Boil one handful of dried hops in half 
a pint of water, until the half pint is reduced to a gill, then 
stir into it enough Indian meal to thicken it. 

A Mustard Poultice. — Into one gill of boiling water stir 
one tablespoonful of Indian meal; spread the paste thus 
made upon a cloth, and spread over the paste one teaspoon- 
ful of mustard flour. If you wish a mild poultice, use a tea- 
spoonful of mustard as it is prepared for the table, instead 
of the mustard flour. Equal parts of ground mustard and 
flour made into a paste with warm water, and spread be- 
tween two pieces of muslin, form the indispensable mustard 
plaster. 

A Ginger Poultice. — This is made like a mustard poultice, 
using ground ginger instead of mustard. A little vinegar is 
sometimes added to each of these poultices. 

A Stramonium Poultice. — Stir one tablespoonful of Indian 
meal into a gill of boiling water, and add one tablespoonful 
of bruised stramonium seeds. 

Wormwood and Arnica are sometimes applied in poultices. 
Steep the herbs in half a pint of cold water, and when all 
their virtue is extracted stir in a little bran or rye-meal to 
thicken the liquid ; the herbs must not be removed from the 
liquid. This is a useful application for sprains and bruises. 



502 FOR THE SICK 

Linseed Poultice. — Take four ounces of powdered linseed, 
and gradually sprinkle it into a half pint of hot water. 

REMEDY FOR BOILS 

An excellent remedy for boils is water of a temperature 
agreeable to the feelings of the patient. Apply wet linen to 
the part affected, and frequently renew or moisten it. It is 
said to be the most effectual remedy known. Take inwardly 
some good blood purifier. 

CURE FOR RINaWORMS 

Yellow dock, root or leaves, steeped in vinegar, will cure 
the worst case of ringworm. 

EXCELLENT COUGH MIXTURE 

One cup of gum, one cup of honey, one cup of lemon juice, 
one ounce of glycerine; mix well, bottle, and take one tea- 
spoonful when cough is troublesome. 

CURE FOR COUGHS 

Three newly-laid eggs, unbroken, over which pour the 
juice of six lemons, and allow to stand for forty-eight hours. 
Then pick out any bits of eggshell which are not dissolved; 
add one-half pound of rock candy, and one pint of Jamaica 
brandy ; mix well and bottle. Dose : 1 tablespoonf ul three 
or four times a day. 

COUGH MIXTURE 

One ounce of tincture of benzoin, two wine-glasses of 
whisky, one cup of molasses. Mix well. One teaspoonful 
whenever cough is troublesome. 



FOR THE SICK 503 

TONIC 

One quart of rye whisky, one ounce fluid extract of celery, 
two ounces fluid extract of hops, half ounce fluid extract of 
rhubarb, four quarts of cold water. Mix well, and bottle 
for use. One tablespoonful before each meal and at bedtime. 

SOAP LINIMENT 

One and one-half ounce soap liniment, one-half ounce 
turpentine, one-half ounce camphor, one-half ounce harts- 
horn, one-half ounce spirits of wine ; have made up at drug- 
gist. Excellent, 

REMEDY FOR COUGH 

One ounce of Balm of Gilead buds; put in a quart of 
water and boil down to a pint; add one pint of Bourbon 
whisky and one pound of loaf sugar. 

DANDELION WINE 

Four quarts of dandelion flowers; cover with one gallon 
of water and boil; strain, and when luke-warm add six 
lemons, four pounds of white sugar and half royal yeast- 
cake; let it stand about ten days, or until done working, 
then strain, bottle and seal. 

ELLIMAN'S EMBROCATION 

One new-laid egg well beaten, add to it by degrees one gill 
turpentine, one gill vinegar, put in alternately one-half ounce 
spirits of camphor. Directions for use. — For rheumatism, 
lumbago, for sore throat, cold in chest, etc., rub in well with 
hand, night and morning. A flannel may also be soaked in 
embrocation and put on, covered with a cloth or flannel. 
Can be used also as a substitute for mustard plaster, as above. 



504 FOR THE SICK 

EIHMAN'S EMBROCATION 

Two glasses turpentine, one glass vinegar, one teaspoon 
salad oil, two raw eggs. Put all in a bottle and shake well 
for quarter of an hour, when it will be ready for use. Keep 
it well corked. 

REMEDIAL QUALITIES OF COMMON FRUITS 

A table giving the remedial qualities of the common fruits 
and vegetables is herewith appended: — 

Celery for any form of rheumatism and nervous dyspepsia. 

Lettuce for insomnia. 

Water-cress for scurvy. 

Onions are almost the best nervine known. Use for in- 
somnia, for coughs and colds, and as a complexion curer. 
Eaten every other day, they soon have a clearing and whiten- 
ing effect on the complexion. 

Spinach for gravel. 

Asparagus to induce perspiration. 

Carrots for suffering from asthma. 

Turnips for nervous disorders and for scurvy. 

Eaw beef proves of great benefit to persons of frail con- 
stitution, and to those suffering from consumption. It is 
chopped fine, seasoned with salt, and heated by placing it in 
a dish in hot water. It assimilates rapidly and affords the 
best nourishment. 

Eggs contain a large amount of nutriment in a compact 
quickly available form. Beaten up raw with sugar they are 
used to clear and strengthen the voice. With sugar and 
lemon juice the beaten white of egg is used to relieve hoarse- 
ness. 

Cranberries for erysipelas are used externally as well as 
internally. 

Cranberries eaten raw are one of the finest tonics and ap- 
petizers known. 



FOR THE SICK 505 

In cases of yellow or typhoid fever, cranberries are almost 
indispensable as a tonic and to assist in clearing the system 
of the harmful bacteria. 

For some forms of dyspepsia there is no more simple and 
effective remedy than raw cranberries. Carry a supply in 
the pocket and eat them frequently during the day. They 
will cure headache as well. 

People who are subject to biliousness will find that with 
cranberries a part of each day's food they will be free from 
such attacks. 

Honey is wholesome, strengthening, cleansing, healing and 
nourishing. 

Fresh ripe fruits are excellent for purifying the blood and 
toning up the system. 

Sour oranges are highly recommended for rheumatism. 

"Watermelon for epilepsy and for yellow fever. 

Lemons for feverish thirst in sickness, biliousness, low 
fevers, rheumatism, colds, coughs, liver complaints, etc. 

Blackberries for diarrhoea. 

Tomatoes are a powerful aperient for the liver, a sovereign 
remedy for dyspepsia and for indigestion. 

Tomatoes are invaluable in all conditions in which the 
use of calomel is indicated. 

Figs are aperient and wholesome. Thej^ are said to be 
valuable as a food for those suffering from cancer. They are 
used externally as well as internally. 

Bananas are useful as a food for those suffering from 
chronic diarrhoea. 

Pie-plant is wholesome and aperient ; is excellent for rheu- 
matic sufferers and useful for purifying the blood. 

Peanuts for indigestion. They are especially recom- 
mended for corpulent diabetes. Peanuts are made into a 
wholesome and nutritious soup, are browned and used as a 
coffee, are eaten as a relish simply baked, or are prepared 
and served as salted almonds. 



606 FOR THE SICK 

Apples are useful in nervous dyspepsia; they are nutri- 
tious, medicinal and vitalizing; they aid digestion, clear the 
voice, correct the acidity of the stomach, are valuable in 
rheumatism, insomnia, and liver trouble. An apple eon- 
tains as much nutriment as a potato, in a pleasanter, more 
"wholesome form. 

Grapes dissolve and dislodge gravel and calculi, and bring 
the stomach and bowels to a healthy condition. 

Ripe pineapples have been put upon the list of foods espe- 
cially healthful for persons troubled with indigestion, the 
juice being especially valuable in such cases. Shred with a 
silver fork, and reject all the indigestible core. The juice of 
a ripe pineapple is an almost invaluable remedy for diph- 
theria, the acid seeming to dissolve the strangling growth in 
the throat. 



FOR THE sick: 607 

WRITTEI^ RECIPES 



508 FOR THE SICK 

WEITTEN EECIPES 



FOR THE SICK 609 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



SIO FOR THE SICK 

WRITTEN RECIPES 



TOILET RECIPES 

COLOGNE WATER 

Oil of lavender, two drachms ; oil of rosemary, one drachm 
and a half; orange, lemon and bergamot, one drachm each 
of the oil ; also two drachms of the essence of musk, attar of 
rose, ten drops, and a pint of proof spirit. Shake all to- 
gether thoroughly three times a day for a week 

JOCKEY CLUB BOUftUET 

Mix one pint extract of rose, one pint extract of tuberose, 
half a pint of extract of cassia, four ounces extract of jas- 
mine, and three ounces tincture of civet. Filter the mixture. 

ROSE WATER 

Preferable to the distilled for a perfume, or for culinary 
purposes: Attar of rose, twelve drops; rub it up with half 
an ounce of white sugar and two drachms carbonate mag- 
nesia ; then add gradually one quart of water, and two ounces 
of proof spirit, and filter through paper, 

BAY RUM 

French proof spirit one gallon; extract bay, six ounces. 
Mix and color with caramel ; needs no filtering. 

LAVENDER WATER 

Oil of lavender, two ounces ; orris root, half an ounce ; 
spirits of wine, one, pint. Mix and keep two or three weeks. 

811 



612 TOILET RECIPES 

It may then be strained through two thicknesses of blotting- 
paper and is ready for use. 

CREAM OF HUES 

Best white castor oil; pour in a little strong solution of 
sal tartar in water, and shake it until it looks thick and 
white. Perfume with lavender. 

COSMETIC BALM 

Half a gill of German cologne, half a gill of alcohol, half a 
gill of glycerine, one-eighth ounce gum tragacanth, one pint 
rain-water. Put all except gum in bottle. Heat quarter 
of a pint of rain-water, add the gum, and let stand half a 
day. Then mix all the ingredients and bottle for use. 

HAIR TONIC 

Tincture of eantharides one-half ounce, glycerine one-half 
ounce, lime water three ounces, distilled water one ounce, 
eau de cologne one-half ounce. Mix and bottle. This is 
from a famous English chemist. 

POT-POURRI 

The "rose jar" is one of the dainty notions which is 
appreciated by refined taste. Orris root four ounces ; oil of 
cloves or bruised cloves, three ounces; gum benzoin, two 
ounces ; calamus root, four ounces ; angelica root, six ounces ; 
oil of cinnamon (true), ten drops; oil of bitter almonds, 
forty drops; essence of bergamot, one drachm; English oil 
of lavender, forty drops ; oil of verbena, thirty drops. Hav- 
ing gathered fresh rose-leaves to nearly fill the jar, sprinkle 
some salt through them and leave to stand for a few days. 
Then pour over them the above mixture. It will perfume 
the air for years. From a famous English chemist. 



TOILET RECIPES 513 

CREAM OF ROSES 

Olive oil, one pound; attar of roses, fifty drops; oil of 
rosemary, twenty-five drops; mix, and color it with alkanet 
root. 

COLD CREAK 

Melt one ounce oil of almonds, half-ounce spermaceti, one 
drachm white wax, and then add two ounces of rose-water, 
and stir it constantly until cold. 

LIP SALVE 

Melt one ounce white wax, one ounce sweet oil, one drachm 
spermaceti, and throw in a piece of alkanet root to color it, 
and, when cooling, perfume it with oil rose, and then pour^ 
it into small white jars or boxes. 

REMEDY FOR DANDRUFF 

Take glycerine four ounces, tincture of cantharides five 
ounces, bay rum four ounces, water two ounces. Mix, and 
apply once a day, and rub well down the scalp. 

HAIR INVIGORATOR 

Bay rum, two pints; alcohol, one pint; castor oil, one 
ounce ; carb. ammonia, half an ounce ; tincture of cantharides, 
one ounce. Mix well. This compound will promote the 
growth of the hair and prevent it from falling out. 

MACCASSAR OIL FOR THE HAIR 

,. Eenowned for the past fifty years, is as follows: Take a 
quarter of an ounce of the chippings of alkanet root, tie this 
in a bit of coarse muslin, and put it in a b-^ttle containing 
eight ounces of sweet oil; cover it to keep out the dust; let 
it stand several days ; add to this sixty drops of tincture of 



514 TOILET RECIPES 

cantharides, ten drops of oil of rose, neroli and lemon each 
sixty drops ; let it stand one week and you will have one of 
the most powerful stimulants for the growth of the hair ever 
known. 

Another : — To a pint of strong sage tea, a pint of bay rum 
and a quarter of an ounce of the tincture of cantharides, add 
an ounce of castor oil and a teaspoonful of rose, or other 
perfume. Shake well before applying to the hair, as the oil 
will not mix. 

DYE FOR WHITE OR HGHT EYEBROWS 

Boil an ounce of walnut bark in a pint of water for an 
hour. Add a lump of alum the size of a filbert, and when 
cold apply with a camel's hair brush. 

HAIR WASH 

One penny worth of borax, half a pint of olive oil, one 
pint of boiling water. Pour the boiling water over the 
borax and oil ; let it cool ; then put the mixture into a bottle. 
Shake it before using, and apply it with a flannel. Camphor 
and borax, dissolved in boiling water and left to cool, make 
a very good vish for the hair; as also does rosemary water 
mixed with a little borax. After using any of these washes, 
when the hair becomes thoroughly dry, a little pomatum or 
oil should be rubbed in to make it smooth and glossy — that 
is, if one prefers oil on the hair. 

OX-MARROW POMADE FOR THE HAIR 

One marrow bone, half a pint of oil, ten cents' worth of 
citronella. Take the marrow out of the bone, place it in 
warm water, let it get almost to boiling point, then let it 
cool and pour the water away; repeat this three times until 
the marrow is thoroughly "fined." Beat the marrow to a 



TOILET RECIPES 515 

cream "with a silver fork, stir the oil in, drop by drop, beating 
all the time; when quite cold add the eitronella, pour into 
jars and cover down. 

TO INCREASE THE HAIR IN THE BROWS 

Clip them and anoint with a little sweet oil. Should the 
hair fall out, having been full, use one of the hair invigo- 
rators. 



DINNER GIVING 

The chief requisites for a successful dinner party are a 
very carefully selected group of congenial guests, a choice 
and well-assorted menu ; prompt and watchful, but silent and 
unobtrusive servants; lights tastefully adjusted, and a host 
and hostess absolutely at their ease. Even to the folding of 
the napkins and the temperature of the wines, the etiquette 
of the dinner party is now exactly prescribed, and the hostess 
who wanders from the limits of the well-ordained rules will 
surely find herself led into profitless and embarrassing ex- 
periments. 

For a ceremonious dinner the company consists of eight, 
twelve, fourteen or eighteen persons ; and the guests must be 
seated at one table. It is a serious, almost an unforgivable, 
error to overestimate the capacity of one's dining-room or the 
powers of one's cook or waitress, and attempt the entertain-, 
ment of a greater number of people than can be comfortably 
seated at one 's table, and the provision and service of an en- 
tertainment too complicated and elaborate for one 's facilities. 
The hour for a dinner, of such formality that the invitations 
have been issued a fortnight in advance of the chosen evening, 
is usually seven, seven-thirty, or eight o'clock. A dinner so 
elaborate that the actual serving of the many courses will 
occupy over two hours is a great mistake. A hostess should 
so arrange her menu and drill her servants that one hour and 
a half only will be spent at table, though in one hour a hand- 
some and very complete feast can be dispatched, without 
crowding one course too close upon the heels of another. 
After an hour or an hour and a half the diners are usually 
well satisfied to leave the atmosphere of the dining-room and 

516 



DINNER GmNG 517 

the sight of food. The serving can be successfully accom- 
plished by a butler, a footman and one maid ; by a butler and! 
a maid, or by two skillful woman servants. For a dinner of 
eighteen covers, at least three servants are necessary ; for one 
of twelve covers, two will manage everj^thing nicely, while at 
one of eight covers a single, capable man or maid, is assisted 
by a well-trained helper in the pantry, can expeditiously 
minister to everyone's wants. 

The temperature of the dining-room should not be allowed 
to rise above seventy-five degrees, nor permitted to fall be- 
low seventy ; and the room should be kept always well venti- 
lated, in order that the air may be always sweet and free of 
odors from the kitchen. Even in the coldest weather one 
window at least may well be kept open an inch at top and 
bottom, until the guests enter. A dining-room heats only too 
rapidly from the lights, foods and human occupants, and 
■even a sumptuous feast is robbed of all its charm when eaten 
in a hot, exhaustive atmosphere. If, by chance, an unoccu- 
pied room opens into the dining-room, continuous ventila- 
tion, without draughts, may be secured by opening the win- 
dows in the vacant chamber and shielding the doorway 
between the two rooms with screens. Gas jets or electric 
lights swinging above the centre of the table are a tasteless, 
tactless means of illuminating a dining-room. As a matter 
of fact, saving and excepting the table and its immediate 
environs, the room in which a truly enjoj'able feast is served 
must not be lighted at all. The light should be concen- 
trated and so directed, that, while every part of the cloth is 
in radiant vision, the guests' eyes are at the same time 
shaded from any painful glare and the buffets, side-table 
and pantry door thrown into agreeable shadow. Candles or 
small lamps, with the flame well shaded, produce the softest, 
steadiest, most comfortable and most becoming light. In- 
comprehensible as it may sound, there are hostesses who, in 
obedience to the behests of fashion, provide gorgeous cande- 



518 DINNER GIVING 

labra or lamps for their table, yet continue to drown out and 
neutralize the glow from them by turning on the fierce hard 
light of the gas or electric chandelier. This is simply to 
convert a fashion, that really originated in sense and com- 
fort, into a perfect absurdity, and to rob the entertainment 
of just the refinement and picturesqueness that alone give 
the private dinner an advantage over a blazing feast spread 
in some hotel restaurant. Whether lamps or candles are 
used, they should be lighted at least three minutes before the 
dinner is announced, in order to make sure that they are 
in good condition and will burn freely and clearly until the 
dinner is finished. Candles are far more popular than lamps, 
because they give quite as soft and steady a light, with less 
heat, Eose red, white, pale yellow, and very delicate green 
shades are recommended as yielding the most agreeable re- 
flection. 

A square or round table, measuring nearly or all of five 
feet across, is not at all too extensive for the modern dinner 
party, wherein at least two feet and a half of the circumfer- 
ence is allotted to the cover of each guest. A long narrow 
table never lends itself readily to decoration, even under the 
most skillful hand. In the case of a round table, if the ordi- 
nary family board is not large enough to accommodate the 
number of guests, a larger separate top can be made, to be 
laid on the fixed smaller one, as special occasions require. 

Before the cloth is laid, a thickness of felt or double-faced 
canton flannel should be placed upon the board; and upon 
this is spread the cloth itself. A handsome dinner cloth 
falls in full, long drapery about the table, its four corners 
almost touching the floor; and as the beauty of a dinner- 
board depends largely upon the almost mathematical exact- 
ness with w^hich all the furnishings are arranged, a good 
point to start from in determining the proper location of 
goblets, decanters, and so on, is the central crease in the 
cloth. At the middle point in this line the large centre 



DINNER GIVINa 519 



doiley finds its proper place. A square or circular piece of 
fine napery, lace, or drawn work is best used here; mirror 
disks and scarfs and circular pieces of linen embroidered in 
colors are no longer the mode. Occasionally a silver tray is 
placed at the centre of the table, and on it is set a crystal or 
silver bowl, or vase filled with flowers. But where the doiley 
or the tray is chosen for the flat centrepiece, the flowers are 
still the chief ornament of every table. "White blossoms and 
maiden-hair fern, a sheaf of gorgeous hot-house roses, a flat 
basket of orchids, a bowl of brilliantly-tinted sweet peas, an 
inexpensive dish of ferns, or a pot of blossoming violets are 
any of them appropriate, whether the decoration is built high 
or kept quite flat. It is the commendable taste of most host- 
esses to use pink lamp or candle shades, if pink roses have 
the post of honor, and yellow silk shades when daffodils shed 
their radiance of color abroad. 

When the centre ornament has been artistically adjusted, 
the candlesticks or lamps are disposed about it. Four can- 
dles will thoroughly illuminate a table laid for six or eight. 
For a table of twelve persons, six sticks or two candelabra, 
each with three or four branches, will be required. De- 
canters of wine, salt-cellars, pepper-boxes, eompotiers of bon- 
bons, and platters of salted nuts are then located. 

Individual salt-cellars and pepper-boxes are not often on 
dinner tables, but large ones stand, one of each, side by side, 
somewhere near the four corners of the table. The trays or 
eompotiers of silver, porcelain, or crystal, holding the nuts 
and sweets, are set between the candlesticks, or a little out- 
side the circle of the candlesticks, toward the edge of the 
table. 

Whatever plan of laying a table is followed, care must be 
taken that one side exactly matches and balances the other in 
the number and placing of the various articles, in order to 
give it a tidy and finished appearance. Care should also be 
taken not to litter the board with useless objects or dishes 



620 DINNER GIVING 

that properly belong on the sideboard. Butter is not served 
at a ceremonious dinner; in fact, at the modern well-ap- 
pointed family dinner table it does not appear. Celery, 
radishes, olives, horseradish, mustard, or any other relish or 
special seasoning, is passed from time to time by the servant ; 
so also are bread and water. Therefore, carafes and menues, 
favors, individual bouquets of flowers, and groups of hand- 
some but useless spoons have wisely been banished as clumsy 
and meaningless. 

The requirements in the arrangement of a dinner cover 
are as follows: The plate should be so placed that if it is 
decorated, the fruit or flowers of the decoration will be in a 
natural position to the eye of the person seated before it ; or 
so that if it is adorned with a monogram or crest, this will 
be right side up to the view of the sitter. On the plate is 
placed a large white dinner napkin, folded and ironed square, 
with the monogram corner showing, and with a dinner roll 
or a square of bread laid between the folds. To the left of 
the plate three silver forks are laid close together, the points 
of the prongs turned up. To the right of the plate lie two 
large silver-handled, steel-bladed knives and one small silver 
knife, their sharp edges turned toward the plate. Beside 
the silver knife is laid a soup spoon, with its bowl turned up, 
and next to the soup spoon lies the oyster fork. Though 
three forks only are as a rule laid at the left of the plate, a 
hostess whose supply of silver is equal to almost any reason- 
able demand may add yet another or lay the covers with 
only two apiece. The additional fourth fork would be for 
the fish and of a special shape, that is, shorter than the 
others, with three flat prongs and the third one on the left 
broader than the others. If the fish that is to be served can 
easily be disposed of without the use of the small silver knife 
at the right of the plate, then this last mentioned utensil 
should not be supplied. 

Nearly touching the tips of the knife-blades stand four 



DINNER GIVING 521 

glasses — one a goblet, or tumbler, for water ; one a small, very- 
tapering, vase-like glass, for sherry; one, the conventional 
wine-glass, for claret, and one very tall or very flaring for 
champagne. 

If sauterne or any still white wine is also to be served, to 
the list of glasses must be added one shaped like the one for 
claret and tinted a delicate green. If both still water and 
sparkling water are to be offered, the first mentioned should 
be served in stemmed goblets and the second in tumblers, and 
if whisky and water is to be offered to any of the male guests, 
there must be provided for this clear, thin glass tumblers, 
very much taller than those used for the mineral water, and 
perfect cylinders in shape or flaring slightly at their tops. 
On top of the napkin lies a small gilt-edged card, possibly 
with a tiny water-color decoration in the corner, and bearing 
across its length, in the hostess's handwriting, the name of 
the person for whom the seat is intended. Large dinners 
seem to require a long list of dishes — for eighteen persons, as 
many as ten or twelve or fourteen courses; for eight per- 
sons, eight or nine courses ; six friends meeting round a hos- 
pitable board would be well satisfied with six courses. The 
order of a sumptuous dinner would follow this general rou- 
tine: 1. Shell fish — small clams or oysters, one-half dozen 
for each person, laid in their shells on a bed of finely crushed 
ice. With these are offered red and black pepper, grated 
horseradish, small thin slices of buttered brown bread or tiny 
crisp biscuit and quarters of lemon. 2. Soup. 3. A course 
of hors d'ceuvres, such as radishes, celery, olives, and salted 
almonds. 4. Fish, with potatoes and cucumbers, the latter 
dressed with oil and vinegar. 5, ]\Iushrooms or sweetbreads. 
6. Asparagus or artichokes. 7. Spring lamb, or roast, with 
a green vegetable. 8. Roman punch. 9. Game with salad. 
10. A second entree. 11. A rich pudding. 12. A frozen 
sweet. 13. Fresh and crj^stallized fruit, and bonbons. 14. 
Coffee and liqueurs. 



522 DINXER GIVING 

Leaving out the third, fifth and tenth courses, a menu of 
proportions sufficiently dignified for a dinner of eight guests 
remains, while for a simple entertainment it would be enough 
to begin with soup, followed by fish, a roast, salad, ices, sweet- 
meats and coffee. "Wines are a feature of the greatest im- 
portance in dinner-giving. For a dinner of more than eight 
persons, a white wine, sherry, claret, Burgundy and cham- 
pagne are provided, one wine, jjreferably claret, for a small 
dinner. 

White wine is drunk with the first course and sherry with 
the soup ; champagne is offered with fish, and its glasses are 
replenished throughout the meal. Claret or Burgundy comes 
in with the game. Sherry and claret are usually decanted, 
and the cut crystal and silver bottles form part of the decora- 
tive furniture of the table. The temperature of these liquids 
must not be below sixty degrees, and many persons prefer 
their claret of the same temperature as the dining-room. 
"White wines and Burgundy are best poured from their 
bottles and served cool but certainly not cold. When a very 
fine Burgundy is poured the bottles are laid on their sides, 
each one in its small individual basket, and for hours they 
are not disturbed in order that all the sediment may fall to 
the bottom, leaving the rich fluid exceedingly clear. The 
man or maid servant who pours this wine brings each bottle 
in its basket to the table and so handles the whole that the 
bottle may be jostled as little as possible. Champagne is 
never decanted, and must be poured while very cold — in fact, 
directly on leaving a bed of ice and salt in which the bottles, 
as a rule, are packed to their necks for a half hour before 
dinner. The buckets of salt and ice, holding the bottles of 
champagne, are placed conveniently in the pantry, and when 
this wine is to be poured the servant deftly pulls the cork 
and wraps a fringed white napkin spirally about the bottle, 
from neck to base. This napkin absorbs the moisture on the 
bottle's surface and prevents any dripping. An untrained 



DINNER GIVING 523 

servant should never be trusted to pour champagne. 
Liqueurs are served with the coffee, are decanted into cut or 
gilded glass bottles of special shape and drunk from, very- 
small stemmed or tumbler shaped glasses. All liqueurs are 
equally agreeable when served at the temperature of the 
drawing-room, though many persons prefer green mint when 
it is poured into tiny glasses nearly filled with shaved ice. 
The bottles of liqueur and small glasses are arranged on a 
silver tray and carried after dinner into the drawing-room 
when the coffee is taken there. 

The service of a dinner should proceed expeditiously — 
without haste, and yet without long pauses between the 
courses. When a dinner commences with oysters or clams 
two plates are laid at each cover ; one, a deep plate, contains 
the shell fish laid on cracked ice, and this is set upon a second 
plate. If the dinner begins with soup each cover is laid with 
a flat plate, on which is folded a napkin holding a roll. 
These things the guests remove when they are seated and the 
servant then sets upon the first plates, second and deeper 
ones containing soup. At the conclusion of the soup course 
all the soup plates are removed, with the plates on which they 
have stood, and then warm plates for the fish are distributed. 
After this course a clean plate is placed before each guest 
before the serving of any course begins, and when the first 
three forks and knives laid at all the covers, have been used, 
fresh ones must very naturally be given with each plate. A 
question troubling many a hostess is whether the clean knives 
and forks should be put on the fresh plates as they are laid 
before the guests, or whether the plates should be distributed 
first and then the knives and forks laid on the cloth beside 
them. The first course is usually adopted in restaurants and 
at hotel tables, where rapid service is esteemed above noiseless 
and deliberate elegance. In a private house, where servants 
are well trained, one maid distributes the plates and in her 
rear comes another, to softly lay the knives and forks in their 



624 DINNER GIVING 

proper places. Even if one maid serves the dinner she can 
proceed thus with greater rapidity and silence than If re- 
quired to set plate, knife and fork all down together. Plates 
for hot courses must needs be warmed, but hot plates that 
make one's fingers tingle are an inappropriate evidence of 
zeal. A well-trained servant presents the dishes at the left 
hand of every guest in turn, beginning the first course with 
the lady at the right of the host, and then passing in regular 
order from gentlemen to ladies as they are seated. After the 
first course, the dishes are started on their progress about the 
table at the left hand of a lady, but not always with the lady 
seated at the host's right, for the same person must not in- 
variably be left to be helped last. At a ceremonious dinner 
served a la Eusse, the host does not carve any of the meats, 
none of the dishes are set upon the table and the hostess does 
not help her guests to anything. "When a dozen or more 
persons are dining the serving of a course is expedited by 
dividing the whole amount of the course on two dishes, which 
the two servants in waiting would begin to pass simultane- 
ously, from opposite sides and different ends of the table. 

When dinner is announced, the host at once offers his right 
arm to the lady who is to sit at his right. If a dinner is 
given in honor of a married couple, the host leads the way 
to the table with his guest 's wife, the hostess bringing up the 
rear with that lady's husband. If there is no particularly 
distinguished person in the party, the host takes in the eldest 
lady, or the one who has been invited to the house for the 
first time. Relatives, or husbands and wives are never sent 
in together. There should, if possible, be an equal number 
of men and women guests. If, however, there are eight 
ladies and seven gentlemen, the hostess should bring up in the 
rear walking alone ; she should never take the other arm of 
the last gentleman. Those who go into the dining-room to- 
gether sit side by side ; and they can move gently about the 
table, discover their places by the cards bearing their names 



DINNER GIVING 525 

and lying at their respective covers. The host waits a mo- 
ment until the ladies are seated, then the dinner proceeds. 
For a very large dinner, the hostess will find it most conven- 
ient to prepare beforehand small cards in envelopes, to be 
given the gentlemen by the butler at the door or in their 
dressing rooms. On each envelope is inscribed the name of 
the gentleman for whom it is intended ; on the card inside is 
the name of the lady whom he is to take in to the table. On 
investigating his card, the recipient can easily identify his 
table companion, and if he knows her not, can appeal to his 
host or hostess to introduce him. A plan of the dinner table 
is often placed in the gentlemen's and ladies' tiring rooms, 
that all may have an idea of their location. Should one or 
more guests arrive after the company is seated, the hostess is 
expected to bow, smile, shake hands, and receive apologies 
amiably ; but does not rise unless the guest is a woman. The 
host, however, rises, goes forward, assists in seating the delin- 
quent, and endeavors, by making general conversation, to 
distract attention from the incident. If the arrival is very 
late, no break is made in serving, the guest being expected to 
take up the dinner at the point it has reached when he ap- 
pears, otherwise great confusion arises. At the conclusion 
of the fruit course, the hostess looks significantly at the lady 
at the right of her husband, and meeting her glance, nods, 
smiles and rises. At this movement the gentlemen rise as 
well, standing aside to permit the ladies to pass out toward 
the drawing-room. The doors or portieres of the door com- 
municating between drawing-- and dining-room are then 
closed, and the butler or waitress carries in the coffee tray to 
the ladies, following it with a tray holding tiny glasses and 
decanters of various liqueurs. 

In the drawing-room, the ladies resume their gloves at 
their leisure, accepting or refusing the coffee and liqueurs as 
their preferences prompt. 

In the dining-room, the men sit at ease to smoke and sip 



526 DINNER GIVING 

their coffee and wine, drawing down near that end of the 
table at which the host is established. At a sign from that 
gentleman, cigars are put aside, and a general exodus from 
the dining-room takes place. 

Such would be the etiquette for the ceremonious and fash- 
ionable dinner party; and with a very few changes, a small 
and less fashionable dining would be conducted on precisely 
the same lines. There might be fewer servants and fewer 
courses, simple flowers, and but a quartet of intimate friends ; 
but this change of conditions necessitates but slight altera- 
tion in the method of arranging the table, of offering the 
food, and of arranging the guests. 

A hostess who possesses pretty but simple table furniture, 
and commands the services of but one maid, and a cook of 
ordinary capabilities, should select a list of dishes which will 
not be difficult to prepare; oysters, soup, fish, a roast with 
vegetables, salad, dessert and coffee, if well cooked and tempt- 
ingly presented, form a feast fit to set before a king. The 
fish course is completed by potatoes or cucumbers, or both; 
the salad is possibly preceded by frozen punch and accom- 
panied with game, and for a truly simple dinner the hostess 
should serve the soup, salad, and dessert, and the host serve 
the fish and carve the joint and game. A white cloth and 
centrepiece of flowers, four candles or dinner lamps, one de- 
canter of red wine and two or four small crystal or silver 
platters, containing bonbons, olives, salted nuts and celery, 
are the proper furnishings for a board set for a party of six 
or eight persons. The covers for a simple dinner are, with 
the exception of fewer wine glasses, arranged as for a fash- 
ionable and formal banquet. 

If the first course consists of oysters or clams, these should 
be ready set on the table. If the dinner begins with soup, 
the hostess should find, when the company enter, the filled 
and covered tureen and a pile of warm soup plates at her 
place. So soon as everyone is seated the maid removes the 



DINNER GIVING 527 

tureen cover and passes the plates of soup and properly re- 
moves the tureen when the last plate has been filled and 
passed. The first is given to the lady seated on the host's 
right hand, then to the other ladies, in the order in which 
they are seated, before the gentlemen are served. A well- 
instructed waitress does not remove the plates of any course 
until she sees that every guest has quite finished. The fish 
and fish plates are set before the master of the house and 
when each guest has received a portion the waitress passes on 
her tray a dish of potatoes. If cucumbers are to be eaten 
with the fish, a small glass saucer should be laid at the left 
of every cover, and then the maid passes to each guest a glass 
bowl, in which the cucumber has been prepared. 

The master of the house, at a dinner of the simpler sort, 
carves the roast, and the maid, having deposited the plates 
containing the meat before each guest, passes the vegetables. 
The dishes of vegetables never look well on the table. When 
everyone has had a helping these dishes should be covered, 
placed on the sideboard and perhaps passed again before the 
meat course is finished. The roast is, however, left before 
the carver, if it is his desire to invite the guests to a second 
helping of meat. 

When a frozen punch is served between the roast and 
salad, the small glass cups, from which it is eaten, are filled 
in the pantry, each one is set on a dessert plate, on which is 
laid a teaspoon. If game follows the punch it should be 
carved by the master of the house and the salad passed by 
the waitress, so that each guest helps himself directly from 
the large salad bowl, either on the plates containing the game, 
or small plates to be set at the right of every guest before the 
salad goes around. 

When neither frozen punch nor game are served the bowl 
of salad and the plates should be set before the hostess foe 
serving and the maid then passes the cheese and toasted bis- 
cuit. The hostess, also serv^es the ice or pudding that forms 



528 DINNER GIVING 

the dessert and the waitress passes the cake and finally sets 
it on the table. 

Should claret and a white w^ine or one red wine only be 
served with such a meal, the host invites that gentleman 
whose hand is nearest the decanter to fill the glass of the lady 
beside him, his own, and then pass the decanter on. Some- 
times the waitress, after she has served everyone to soup, fills 
all the wine glasses and places the decanter near the host, 
who thereafter sees that it is passed about at proper intervals. 

If a fruit course succeeds the dessert the waitress places 
before every guest a plate on which there lies a doiley; on' 
this a quarter finger bowl of water and beside the bowl a 
small silver knife. Then to everyone she offers the platter 
of fruit and finally places it on the table before her master or 
mistress. The coffee is usually brought in to the table and 
the hostess pours the beverage. The first duty of the dinner 
guest is to arrive before the hostess' door on the stroke of the 
hour named in her invitation. It is almost as embarrassing 
a blunder to anticipate by ten or twenty minutes the time 
indicated on the dinner cards as it is to keep the hostess, her 
delicate viands, and her presumably hungry guests waiting. 
If one be unavoidably detained, an earnest and brief apology 
should be offered the hostess ; and if the company are already 
seated at table, it is best, after a short explanation, to take 
the vacant seat and ignore the subject of the delay. 

Guests are privileged to leave at any moment after the 
dinner is concluded. It is not polite or flattering to a host 
and hostess to accept their invitations to a ceremonious din- 
ner and hurry away to meet another engagement ; but in the 
gay season, in a big city, where one or two entertainments 
take place in an evening, a man or woman greatly in demand 
may linger but ten minutes in the drawing-room after dinner, 
and then, with explanations and adieux, go on to the next 
festivity. 



INDEX 



BEVERAGES 449-456 

Beverage 450 

Blackberry Cordial 455 

Blackberry Vinegar 455 

Cafe au Lait 453 

Cafe Frappe 453 

Choca 451 

Chocolate 454 

Claret Cup 452 

Cocoa 454 

Coffee 450, 453 

Coffee, Healing Properties 

of 449 

Ginger Beer 450 

Ginger Coi'dial 451 

Lemonade 454 

Milk Punch 452 

Orangeade 454 

Raspberry Royal 455 

Raspberry Vinegar 455 

Tea, Healing Properties of 449 
Tea, Russian 451 

BREAD, BISCUITS, MUF- 
FINS, etc 310-336 

Bread 310 

Bread, Vienna 315 

Bread, Spoon 317 

Bread, Baked Brown 321 

Bread, Graham 321 

Bread, Graham, Quick .... 321 

Bread, Indian 321 

Breadsticks 336 

Bread Savory, Fried 332 

Bread, Oatmeal 323 

Bread, Rye 322 

Biscuits, Maryland 317 

Biscuits, Hot, Baking Pow- 
der 317 

Biscuits, Soda, without Milk 323 

Biscuits, Buttermilk 323 

Biscuits, Raised Graham... 324 
Buns, Spanish . . .318, 320, 333 

Buns, Scotch Currant 320 

Buns, Hot Cross 326 

Cornbread, Adirondack .... 319 
Cornbread, New Oi-leans . . . 322 

Corncake 336 

Fruit Pin Wheels..: 335 

529 



Bread, Biscuits, Etc. — Continued. 

Gems, Spice 319 

Gems, Graham 328 

Gems, Apple 328 

Gems, Oatmeal 329 

Gems, Wheat 329 

Gems, Rye 330 

Gems, Cornmeal 330 

Muffins 314, 315, 316, 318 

Muffins, Corn 318 

Muffins, Milk 319 

Muffins, Rice 330 

Muffins, Cornmeal 330 

Muffins, Plain 331 

Muffins, Raised 331 

Muffins, English Breakfast. 332 

Pancakes 333, 334 

Popovers 319, 335 

Potato Cakes 334 

Puffs, Oatmeal 327 

Rice Griddle Cakes 335 

Rolls, To Renew Stale 313 

Rolls, Egg 324 

Rolls, Parker House 

316, 324, 334 

Rolls, Vienna 325 

Rolls, Bread Twist 325 

Rolls, French Raised 32G 

Rusks, Yeast 327 

Rusks, Dried 327 

Sally Lunns 334 

Scones, Soda 316 

Scones 317 

Scones, Potato 330 

Spiced Raisin Loaf 314 

Waffles 332, 336 

Yeast, Old-fashioned 314 

BUTTER AND CHEESE... 

461, 471 

Butter, To Make 461-462 

Butter, A Brine To Pre- 
serve 462 

Butter, Putting Up To Keep 4a3 
Cheese, New Jersey Cream. 463 

Cheese, Cottage 464 

Cheese Fondu 465, 470 

Cheese Ramakins 467 



530 



INDEX 



Butter and Cheese — Continued. 
Cheese Souffle ....465, 400, 467 

Cheese, Scalloped 467, 470 

Clieese Straws . . .468, 469, 470 

Cheese Cream Toast 468 

Curds and Cream 463 

Macaroni and Cheese 469 

Slip 4(>4 

CAKES 272-305 

Almond ^ '^ 

Angel "^^^ 

Apple Short Cake 280 

Bridesmaid's 2S9 

Chocolate Glace ^<8 

Chocolate . . .280, 281, 284, 290 

(]love "^"^ 

Cocoanut Puffs 276, 297 

Coffee Cake, German 3U4 

Cookies ^^■^ 

Cookies, Oatmeal .283, 292, 296 

Cookies, Drop 283 

Cookies, Cocoanut 2h4 

Cookies, Shrewsbury 290 

Cookies, Ginger 295 

Cornstarch Cake i- ^go 

Cornmeal '• ^^y 

Crullers • • • • 304 

Cup 29a, 300 

Date ^^ 

Dayton 294 

Drop 298 

Easy 29o 

Eccles ^^-^ 

Fig Paste Fillmg 300 

Filling 277 

Filling, Walnut Cream 301 

Frosting -.274, 280 

Fruit 278, 287, 297 

Gingerbread, Soft 277 

Ginger 285 

Gingerbread, Lafayette 292 

Ginger Snaps 293 

Ice Cream 288 

Icing 289, 296 

Imperial 291 

Jam 282 

Jelly 299 

Kisses r 276 

Layer 283 

Lemon > 296 

Lemon Cheese 278. 302 

Lunch 297, 304 

Macaroons 284 

Macaroons, Cocoanut ......802 

Macaroons, Oatmeal . . . 287, 297 

Maple Sugar 296 

Mocha 293 



Calces — Continued. 

Molasses 294 

Neapolitan 298 

Orange 290 

Orange Filling 286 

Raisin Layer . 291 

Raspberry 276 

Ribbon 299 

Rock 298, 303 

Peel 279, 288 

Plain 286 

Plum 275, 276 

Scotch , 301 

Seed 293 

Shortbread 281, 288, 305 

Shortbread, Scotch 289 

Silver 300 

Sponge .277, 279, 282, 285, 291 

294, 298 

Sponge, Chocolate 282 

Sponge Roll 304 

Sponge, Treacle 279 

Spice 284, 295 

Tea 302, 303 

Wafers, Walnut 294 

Wafers, Oatmeal 300 

Wafers, Vanilla 301 

Walnut 302 

Wedding 287 

White Rock 285 

CANDIES .424-433 

Candy, Peanut 426 

Candy, Hickory Nut 426 

Candy, Velvet Cream 427 

Candy, Maple Cream.. .428, 430 
Candy, Maple Sugar... 429, 430 

Candy, Nut Molasses 432 

Candy, Sugar Nut 432 

Candy, Cocoanut 427, 432 

Candy, Molasses 433 

Caramels 426. 427 

Caramels, Chocolate 428 

Chocolate Creams 429 

Currant Drops 431 

Chocolate Fudge 426 

Butter Scotch 425 

Fudge 427 

Lemon Drops 431 

INIaple Mousse 432 

Nougat 430 

Stuffed Dates 430 

Toffee, Scotch 428 

Turkish Delight 431 

Yum Yum 427 

CHAFING DISH RECIPES 

438-444 

Chicken Croquettes ....... 443 



INDEX 



531 



Chafing Dish Recipes — Continued. 

Clams Saute 441 

English Monkey 439 

Hungarian Mushrooms . . . 443 

Lobster a la Newburg 442 

Lobster, Celery 443 

Lobster. Creamed 442 

Oysters, Celery 441 

Oysters, Deviled 438 

Oysters on Toast, Creamed. 430 

Oysters with Anchovy 438 

Sardines, Deviled 441 

Shrimps with Anchovy 

Sauce 442 

Shrimps with Tomato Sauce 443 
Welsh Rarebit . . .439, 440, 443 

DESSERTS. CUSTARDS, 

AND CREAMS 227-249 

Ambrosia 229 

Almonds, Salted 229 

Apple Snow 241 

Apple Sponge 245 

Apple Charlotte 230, 248 

Apples a la Princess Maud 234 

Apricots, Poached 230 

Bananas 235 

Cafe Mousse 237 

Compote of Chestnuts .... 246 

Charlotte Russe 232, 238 

Cranberry Jelly 231 

Cream, Italian 2.32 

Cream. Chocolate 232, 234 

Cream, Pineapple .233, 238, 242 

Cream, Spanish 23G, 247 

Cream, Stone 240 

Cream, Ginger 242, 248 

Cream, Russian 242 

Cream, Burnt 248 

Cream, Raspberry 228 

Creme a la Duchesse 233 

Cranberry Frappe 237 

Custard, Soft Caramel .... 228 

Custard, Caramel 240, 247 

Custard Souffle 239 

Daintv Dessert, A , 229 

Fig Trifle 241 

Fruit Jelly 244 

Ice Cream, Philadelphia. .. . 247 

Ice Cream 239 

Lemon .lelly 244 

Maple Parfait 236 

Maple Mound 241 

Peach Melba 230 

Plum Shape 247 

Prince of Wales Dessert . . . 246 

Prunes, Gateaux aux 233 

Prune .Telly 244, 245 

Prune Shape 229 



Desserts, Custards, Etc. — Continued 

Rich Chocolate Torte 249 

Sauce 243 

Sherry Flip 234 

Sherbet, Strawberry 236 

Sherbet, Lemon 236, 243 

Sherbet, Muscat 237 

Souffle 242 

Strawberry Mold 231 

Trifle 2.38, 242 

Trifle, Lemon 240 

Water Ice, Lemon 239, 241 

Water Ice, Orange 239 

Wine Jelly 243 

EGGS AND OMELETS.. 360-364 

Eggs 360 

Eggs, Anchovy 362 

Eggs, To Preserve 360 

Eggs, Savory 362 

Eggs, Stewed 363 

Eggs, Stewed in Cream. . . . 364 

Omelet 361, 3^3 

Omelet, Cheese 362 

Omelet, German 362 

Omelet of Mushroom 363 

Omelet, Oyster 364 

Omelet, Fish 364 

Omelet, Oniou 364 

Omelet, Jelly 364 

FISH 37-65 

Alewives, Smoked 58 

Angels on Horseback 43 

Baked Fish 39, 47 

Bass, Boiled 60 

Bass, Baked 64 

Bass, Fillet of 61 

Black Fish, Fillet of 61 

Bloaters, Smoked 58 

Boiled Fish 38 

Broiled Fish 38 

Brook Trout 61 

Clams a la Financicre 59 

Codfish, Creamed . . .' 48 

Coflfish, in Cream 49 

Codfish Balls 48, 49 

Codfish Cutlets 49 

Codfish, Salt 50 

Codfish, Baked 47 

Cutlets, Fish 55 

Dressing for Fried Fish... 42 

Eels, Stewed 54 

Finnan Haddie 58 

Fish Entree 56 

Fish, Left Over 46 

Fish Balls a la Norris 55 

Frying, Modes of 40 



532 



INDEX 



Fish — Continued. 

Frogs' Legs, Fried 59 

Frogs' Legs, Stewed 59 

Halibut 62 

Halibut, Colloped 62 

Halibut, Fillet of 61 

Halibut, Boiled 63 

Herrings, Smoked 58 

Lobster, Berliner 57 

Lobster, Escalloped 58 

Lobster, Croquettes of ... . 56 

Lobster, Curried 56 

Lobster Cutlets 57 

Mackerel, with Tomato 

Sauce 58 

INIackerel, Broiled 60 

Mayonnaise of Fish 54 

Modes of Frying 40 

Omelet of Fish 63 

Oyster Cocktail 45, 46 

Oysters, Curried 45 

Oyster Cocktail Dressing... 46 

Oysters, Scalloped 44 

Oysters, Fried 43 

Oysters, Kebobbed 45 

Pickerel, Fried 61 

Salmon, Boiled 54 

Salmon, Loaf 53 

Salmon, in a Mold 53 

Salmon, Steamed 52 

Salmon, Smoked 52 

Salmon, Creamed 52, 53 

Salmon, Baked 51 

Salmon, Molded 50 

Salmon, with Poached Egg. 50 

Salmon, Cutlets 49 

Sardines au Gratin 42 

Sardines on Toast 42 

Sardines, Canapees of 42 

Sardine Savoy 43 

Shrimps, Fricassee of 65 

Smelts 65 

Soles in Batter 47 

Sturgeon, Roast 63 

Sturgeon Cutlets 63 

Turbot 65 

Whitefish, Broiled 64 

Whitefish, Boiled 64 

FOR THE SICK 493-506 

Beef Tea , 494 

Blackberry Cordial 501 

Boiled Rice 497 

Boils, Remedy for 502 

Bread Panada 499 

Broth. Veal 494 

Broth, Mutton 494 

Beefsteak 494 

Calves-Foot Jelly 495 



For the Sick — Continued. 

Chicken Jelly 497 

Chops, Beefsteak and Mut- 
ton 494 

Cough Mixture 502 

Cough, Cure for 502 

Cough, Remedy for 503 

Gruel, Oatmeal 494 

Cracker Panada 499 

Crust Coffee 499 

Cup Custard 499 

Dandelion Wine 503 

Elliman's Embrocation.. 503, 504 

For Children Teething 500 

Gruel, Egg 496 

Hominy 497 

Jelly, Mulled 498 

Lemonade, Flax-Seed 496 

Mutton Chops 494 

Mutton Broth 494 

Orange Albumen 495 

Porridge, Arrowroot Milk. , 496 

Porridge, Milk 496 

Powders for Children 500 

Poultices 501 

Remedial Qualities of Fruits 504 

Ringworm, Cure For 502 

Slippery Elm Tea 496, 499 

Soap Liniment 503 

Toast, Egg 498 

Toast, Soft 498 

Toast, Oyster 498 

Toast Water . . 499 

Tonic 503 

MEATS 70-103 

American Fritters 78 

Aspic Jelly 83 

Bavarian Entree 98 

Beef, Roast 73 

Beef, Roast, Baked, Cold . . 81 

Beef, Roulades of 78 

Beef Croquettes 25 

Beef, Browned Mince of . . . 75 

Beef, Breakfast Dish of . . . . 75 

Beef Cakes 74 

Beef Olives 79 

Beef Stew 76 

Beef, Hunters' 92 

Brains, Boiled 78 

Dutch Stew 86 

Forcemeat for Veal 84 

Frozen Meats, Thawing. ... 72 

Haggis, Scotch 82 

Ham Pie 87 

Ham, Stuffed 99 

Ham, Boiled 92, 99 

Ham, Baked 100 

Hamburg Steak 98 



INDEX 



633 



Meats — Continued. 

Ham, To Glaze 101 

Hash, Corned Beef 100 

Irish Stew 91 

Keep Meat From Flies, To. 73 

Kidney, Berlin 77 

Kidneys, Deviled 94, 101 

Kidneys, Stewed with Wine 93 

Kidneys, With Bacon 94 

Kidneys, Toasted 94 

Kidneys. Stuffed 95 

Lamb, Roast Leg of 90 

Lamb, Roast Shoulder of.... 88 

Lamb, Broiled 80 

Lamb, Minced With 

Poached Eggs 77 

Lamb, Stewed Breast of . . . 77 

Lamb, Braised Breast of... 88 

Lamb Haricot 76 

Lamb Chops 89 

Lamb, Stewed, and Green 

Peas 90 

Liver and Mushrooms 93 

Mutton, Boiled 90 

Mutton, Broiled 80 

Mutton Chops 89 

Mutton, Stuffed Leg of 88 

Mutton, Curried 81 

Ox Tails, Stewed 85 

Pate De Veau 86 

Pork, Roast 95 

Pork Chops 96 

Pork Steaks and Tender- 
loins 96 

Pork, Spare Rib 96 

Pork and Beans, Boston. . 95 

Pork Pot Pie 97 

Pork Pie, Yorkshire 97 

Ris de Veau a cas Su- 
preme . 101 

Savory Grill 81 

Steak, Broiled 74 

Steak, Stewed and Maca- 
roni 79 

Steak, Smyrna 81 

Sweetbreads for Timbales. . 87 

Sweetbreads, Mayonnaise of 103 

Sweetbreads, Breaded 103 

Swiss Pates 80 

Timbale Batter 86 

Tongue, To Glaze 101 

Veal Pie 87 

Veal, Blanquette of 85 

Veal Pattv 83, 102 

Veal Chevreux 82 

Veal, Galantine of 102 

Veal Shape 79 

Veal, Jellied .- 93 

Yorkshire Pudding 74 



MISCELLANEOUS 476-488 

Apple Stuffing 476 

Alexandra Rolls 481 

Bouchees a la Reine 477 

Batter for Timbales 478 

Canope de Luxe 481 

Cold Savory 478 

Curry, King Kalakua's. . . . 479 
Decoration For a Hot Day. 483 

Fancy Cooking 483 

Furniture Polish 484 

Head Cheese 480 

Horseradish Sauce 478 

Hot Tartare Sauce 476 

How To Stone Olives 484 

How To Cut Bacon 484 

How To Wash Dishes 484 

Hungry Boys' Lunch 477 

Kidgrie, or Dry Curry 482 

Laplands 477 

Lemon Cheese 480 

Mousse ; 479 

Onion Sauce 482 

Plain Rice Cake 482 

Polish for Morocco Furni- 
ture ,. . 484 

Savory 478 

Salted Almonds 476 

Spanish Cream 481 

S's 470 

Spaghetti 477 

Stove Polish 484 

Things To Remember 486 

PASTRY, PIES, AND 

TARTS 254-267 

Apple Pie, Plain 263 

Apple Tarts 261 

Apricot Tarts 261 

^ Berry Tarts 261 

Cheese Tartlets 267 

Cheese Pie 267 

Cocoanut Pie 265 

Cranberry Pie 2Go 

Cream Pie 264 

Cream Puffs 267 

Icing for Pastry 256 

Lemon Pie 257, 260 

Lemon Filling 20O 

Lemon Filling for Pie 2G6 

Lent Pie 265 

Martha Washington's Pie.. 261 

Mince Meat, for Pies 257 

Mince Meat, Old Country.. 258 

Mince Meat, with Beef 258 

Mince Meat, Without Beef. 259 

Mince INIeat, 1812 258 

Orange Pie 263 

Pastry, Plain, for Piea.... 255 



634 



INDEX 



Pastry, Pies arid Tarts — Continued. 

Pastry, for Tarts 256 

Pastry, for Open Pies 256 

Pie Crust 260, 266 

Pumpliin Pie 264, 266 

Sweet Potato Custard Pie. 259 

PICKLES 388^02 

Butter, Tomato 388 

Catsup, Crab Apple 392 

Catsup, Grape 394, 402 

Catsup, Tomato 389 

Catsup. Mustard 394 

Chow-chow 393, 398 

Chutney 889, 390, 398 

Chutney, Tomato 390 

Chutney, Bengal 391 

Currants, Spiced 400 

Grapes, Spiced 392, 396 

Lemons, Pickled 397 

Mustard Dressing 396 

Mustard, Tomato 391, 396 

Pickled Crab Apple 390 

Pickled Mushrooms 391 

Pickled Peaches 395 

Pickles, Yellow 392, 401 

Pickles, French 393 

Pickles, INIustard 394, 399 

Pickles, Sweet Tomato 399 

Pickles, Green Cucumber . . 399 

Pickles, Cherry 400 

Pickles, India . . 40O 

Pickles, Lemon 401 

Sauce, Chili .389, 390, 395, 399 
Sauce, Chili, with Celery... 395 

Sauce, Celery 395 

Sauce, Tomato 397 

Tomato Soy 398 

POULTRY AND GAME. 108-143 

Begum's Curry 141 

Chicken, Roasted 116 

Chicken, Boned, Roasted... 114 
Chicken, Jellied, Boned.... 114 
Chicken, Braised, Boned... 114 

Chicken, Boiled 118 

Chicken, Fondu of 127 

Chicken, Braised 118 

Chicken, Broiled 118 

Chicken, Creamed 143 

Chicken, Fricassee 119 

Chicken, Fried 120 

Chicken, Stuffed 120 

Chicken, Broiled, on Toast, 121 

Chicken, Curried 121 

Chicken Pot Pie 122, 123 

Chicken, Stewed, with Bis- 
cuit 123 

Chicken, Celeried 126 

Chicken Saute ■> 119 



Poultry and Game — Continued. 

Chicken, Smothered 124 

Chicken, Marjdand 124 

Chicken Croquettes . . . 124, 125 

Chicken, Creamed 126 

Chicken Jelly 126 

Dressing for Fowls 113 

Duckling, Roast 129 

Duck, Savory i 127 

Duck, Stewed 128 

Duck, Braised 128 

Duck, Roast 128 

Duck, Salmi of 129 

Duck, Canvasback, Broiled. 130 
Duck, Canvasback, Roasted 130 
Duck, Redhead, Broiled ... 130 
Duck, Redhead, Roasted . . 130 
Duck, Ragout of, and Green 

Peas 13C 

Forcemeat for Stuffing 

Boned Fowls 115 

Fowl Dressing 143 

Game Pie 132 

Giblet Sauce 117 

Goose, Roast 131 

Grilled Bones 121 

Grouse, Broiled 132 

Grouse, Salmi of 132 

Hare, Jugged 137 

Hare, Roast 137 

"My Devil" 141 

Oyster Dressing 113 

Partridge, Roast 134 

Perdrix aux Choux 138 

Pigeon, Roast, Wild 134 

Pigeon, Braised, With Mush- 
rooms 135 

Pigeon Pie 135 

Pigeon, English, Jugged ....135 

Pigeon, Curried 136 

Prairie Chicken, Roast 131 

Potato Stuffing 143 

Quail, Roast 133 

Quail, Broiled 133 

Rabbit, Roast 137 

Rabbit, Stewed 84, 136 

Small Birds 136 

Snipe 136 

Squabs, Broiled 134 

Stuffing for Fowls 117 

Stuffing, Chestnut 117 

Timbales 142 

Truss a Fowl, To 115 

Turkey, Roast 109 

Turkev, Scalloped Ill 

Turkey, Boiled 110 

Turkev, Hashed Ill 

Turkey, Boned 112 

Turkey, Wanned Over .... Ill 



INDEX 



685 



Poultnj and Game — Continued. 

Turkey, Blanquette of 112 

Venison, Baked Saddle of. . 139 

Venison, Jellied 139 

Venison Pie 140 

Venison, Roast Haunch of. 138 
Venison Steak, Broiled . . . 139 

Volaille, Souffle de 141 

Woodcock 136 

PRESERVES, JELLIES, 

ETC 407^19 

Apple Leather 410 

Apple Butter 413 

Bottling Whole Fruit 419 

Canned Pineapple 415 

Canned Fruits 408 

Chopped Pears 417 

Ginger Apples 412, 413 

Jam, Ripe Gooseberry .... 413 

Jam, Rhubarb, Green 414 

Jam, Rhubarb, Red 414 

Jam, Blackberry 417 

Jam, Apple 417 

Jelly, Apple 410 

.Telly, Grape 410 

Jelly, Pear 415 

Jelly, Pineapple 415 

Marmalade, Orange 

409, 411, 414, 418 

Marmalade, Simple Recipe. 411 

Marmalade, Pear 412 

Marmalade, Quince 412 

Marmalade, Scotch 416 

Marmalade, Royal 418 

Marmalade, Red Currant. . 418 

Peach Leather 410 

Pears, Chopped 417 

Pears. Pickled 416 

Pineapple, Canned 415 

Preserve Fruit, whole, with- 
out Sugar 416 

Quince Leather 410 

PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

185-222 

Ada Ford's 217 

Agra 212 

Almond, Hot 205 

Almond, Cold 204 

Apple, Swiss 211 

Apple, Charlotte 210 

Apple, Baked 209 

Apple Meringue 209 

Apple Fritters 211 

Apple Souffle 210 

Arrat 202 

Arrowroot Charlotte 212 

Arrowroot Creams 213 



Puddings and Sauces — Continued. 

Austrian 213 

Bachelor's 214 

Banana 220 

Batter, English Boiled 192 

Betsy 214 

Blueberry 193 

BoQ Accord 201 

Bread Fritters 213 

Bread and Butter 200, 214 

Brentwood 219 

Brown 199, 207 

Cake 197 

Caramel 189, 191, 216 

Caramel Custard 195 

Carita 191 

Carrot 202. 214 

Cheese 189 

Chocolate Sponge 190 

Christmas 217, 218 

Cream Sponge 203 

Cracker 193 

Cold Fruit 188 

Cold 208 

Cottage 188 

Currants, To Clean 187 

Custard 220 

Date 201 

Derbyshire 204 

Fig 190, 196, 207 

Fig. Smothered 216 

Frozen 222 

Fruit 215 

German 211 

Ginger, Plain 218 

Ginger 198 

Graham 217 

Ice 200 

Jelly 204 

La Pai-isienne 205 

Lemon Tapioca 203 

Lemon 205 

Macaroni 199 

Madeira 191 

Marmalade 188, 208 

May's 219 

Orange 203 

Paradise 190 

Patterdale 202 

Pineapple and Tapioca 202 

Plum, John Bull's Own 192 

Plum ...189, 190, 196, 198, 2m 

Polka 197 

Pouding a la Parisienne. . . . 205 

Preserve Dumplings 222 

Prune 192, 217 

Raisin Puff 220 

Raisins, To Stone 188 

Rhubarb 221 



536 



INDEX 



Puddings and Sauces — Continued. 

Rice Apple 198 

Rice 221 

Roly Poly, Steamed 206 

Sago, Steamed 208 

Sauce, Cream 194 

Sauce, Chocolate 194 

Sauce, Hot Chocolate 194 

Sauce for a Pudding 193 

Sauce, Foam 194 

Sauce, Creamy 194 

Sponge 198, 207, 215 

Syrup from Orange Peel... 195 

Suet, Baked 197 

Suet 215 

Suet, To Chop 188 

Tapioca, Fruit 196 

Wheat Fig 199 

Yorkshire 201, 215 

SALADS AND DRESSINGS 

369-383 

Bean 379 

Beet 383 

Cabbage and Celery 375 

Celery 375 

Chicken 372 

Chiffonade 381 

Egg 377 

Fruit 378 

Gherkin 382 

Heisser-Kraut 382 

Kartoffel 382 

Lobster 371 

Malaga 370 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 370, 371, 376 

380, 383 

Orange 376, 379 

Oyster 381 

Oyster 373 

Pineapple 370 

Potato 375 

Russian 370 

Sardine 377 

Salad Dressing.... 369, 371, 372, 
, 374, 376, 377, 378, 380, 381 

Sweetbread 377 

Sweet Potato 379 

Tomato 373 

Tomato Jelly 374 

Normandy 379 

Nut 378 

Waldorf 382 

SANDWICHES 347-355 

Celery and Cheese 350 

Celery 355 

Cheese and Honey 347 

Cheese and Mustard 348 



Sandwiches — Continued. 

Cheese 353 

Chicken 352 

Cream-Cheese 354 

Cress 355 

Crimson 348 

Eastlawn Oyster 348 

Egg 353 

Green 349 

Habitant 350 

Ham and Chutney 347 

Ham 351 

Jam 349 

Lettuce 348, 355 

Mushroom 353 

Olive 348 

Peanut 355 

Piquant 354 

Raw Beef 351 

Rolled Bread and Butter. .. 351 

Salmon 349 

Sardine 352 

Savory 348, 353 

Smart 350 

Swiss Cheese . . ., 350 

Toast 349 

Tongue 354 

Walnut 350 

Wo tercress 352 

Yellow 349 

SOUPS 1-32 

Asparagus, Cream of 6 

Barley Broth 23 

Barley, Cream of 17 

Bean 8 

Broth Made Quickly 27 

Brown Soup, Clear 21 

Carrot 7 

Calf's Head 27 

Cauliflower Broth 23 

Celery, Cream of 30, 31 

Chicken Broth 19 

Chicken and Corn Broth... 17 

Chicken, Plain 18 

Clam 28 

Clam, Mock 9 

Clear 13 

Consomme 29 

Corn Chowder 24 

Dahl 32 

Duchess 30 

Giblet 14 

Gumbo 16 

Herbs Used in Soup 3 

Highlanders' Delight 19 

Kidney 8, 9 

Lettuce. Cream of 21 



INDEX 



537 



Soups — Continued. 

Liver 24 

Marrowball 16 

Mock Turtle 20 

Mulligatawny i. 25 

Mutton Broth 27 

Mushroom 32 

Old Hare 25 

Onion 13, 14 

Oyster 26, 27, 28 

Ox-Tail Soup 29 

Pea, Green 8 

Pea, Split 26 

Peanut 31 

Potato 9, 10, 31 

Quenelles for Clear Soup. .. 6 

Rabbit 25 

Salmon 10 

Scotch Broth 22 

Stock 4 

Stock, White 5 

Stock, to Clarify 5 

Stock, Brown 6 

Spaghetti 20 

Sorrel, Cream of 22 

Tapioca 20 

Tomato Bouillon 11 

Tomato 11 

Tomato, Cream of 12 

Tomato Puree „ 12 

Tomato Bisque 12 

Tripe 10 

Turkish 10 

Turnip 21 

Veal 31 

Vegetables Used in Soup ... 3 

Vegetable 15 

Vegetable Puree 16 

Vermicelli 20 

White Soup 7 

TOAST 341-343 

American 842 

Cream 341 

French 342 

Ham 343 

Milk 341 

Nuns' 342 

TOILET RECIPES 511-515 

Bay Rum 511 

Cold Cream 513 

Cologne Water 511 

Cosmetic Balm 512 

Cream of Lilies 512 

Cream of Roses 513 

Dandruff, Remedy For 513 

Eyebrows, Dye for 514 

Hair Tonic ' 512 



Toilet Recipes — Continued. 

Hair Invigorator 513 

Hair Wash 514 

Hair on the Brows, To In- 
crease 515 

Jockey Club Bouquet 5il 

Lavender Water 511 

Lip Salve 513 

Macassar Oil 513 

Ox-Marrow Pomade 514 

Pot Pourri 512 

Rose Water 511 

VEGETABLES 148-180 

Artichokes, Boiled 180 

Asparagus Tips 164, 165 

Asparagus, Boiled 164 

Asparagus a la Vinaigrette 164 

Asparagus, Scalloped 164 

Asparag-us Pates 165 

Beans, Lima 171 

Beans, Lima, Stewed 171 

Beans, Kidney 172 

Beans, Kidney, a la Lyon- 

naise 172 

Beets, Young, Boiled 163 

Beets, Old, Boiled , 163 

Beet Tops 164 

Cabbage, Ways of Cooking. 162 

Carrots, Young, Creamed. . . 178 
Carrots, Young, a la Paris- 

ienne 177 

Carrots, Stewed 177 

Cauliflower au Gratin 

172, 173, 174 

Cauliflower, Boiled 172 

Cauliflower, Boiled, with 

Tomato Sauce 173 

Cauliflower, Parisian Style. 173 

Cauliflower, Stewed 173 

Cauliflower, Baked 174 

Celery, Savory 180 

Celery, Creamed 180 

Corn Fritters 167, 168, 169 

Corn, Canned 169 

Corn and Tomatoes, Stewed 168 

Corn, Stewed 167 

Corn, Boiled 167 

Egg-plant, Fried 177 

Egg-plant, Broiled 177 

Onions, Creamed 158 

Onions, Baked 159 

Onions, Bermuda, Stuffed . . . 159 

Onion Souffle 159 

Onion Fritters 160 

Oyster Plant. Baked 166 

Parsnips, Buttered 179 

Parsnip Cake 179 



638 



INDEX 



Vegetables — Cotitimied. 

Parsnips, Creamed 179 

Peas, Green 169 

Peas, Canned 179 

Peas, Puree of Green 179 

Peas, Green, Pancakes .... 179 

Peas, Black-ej^ed 171 

Peppers, Sweet, Staffed 178 

Peppers, Sweet, Fried .... 178 
Peppers, Green, Stuffed . . . 165 

Potato Rice 149 

Potatoes, Baked 149 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise 149 

Potatoes, Fried 159 

Potatoes, Saratoga 159 

Potatoes, Puffed or Souffle. 151 

Potato Rissoles 149 

Potatoes, Sweet, Puree .... 151 
Potatoes, Sweet, Browned,. 151 
Potatoes, Sweet, Baked . . . 151 

Potatoes, Sweet 151 

Rice Croquettes 169 

Rice, Boiled 169 

Rice Curi-y 161 

Salsify 166 

Salsify Fritters 166 

Salsify, Stewed 167 



Vegetables — Continued. 

Spinach, Souffle 174, 175 

Spinach, French 174 

Spinach, Boiled, Plain .... 175 

Succotash 169 

Squash, Boiled . 176 

Squash Fritters 176 

Squash, Baked 176 

Tomatoes, Stewed 152, 154 

Tomatoes, Scalloped ..152, 156 

Tomatoes, Stuffed 15.3 

Tomatoes, Roasted 153 

Tomatoes, Broiled 154 

Tomato, Pilaff 154 

Tomatoes and Cheese 154 

Tomatoes au Gratin 155 

Tomatoes, Broiled with 

Sauce 155 

Tomatoes, Baked 156 

Tomatoes, Fried in Batter. 157 
Tomatoes, Fried, Plain . . . 157 

Tomatoes, Deviled 157 

Tomatoes, East Indian, 

Ragout of 158 

Tomatoes, on Toast 156 

Turnips, Young 161, 162 

Turnips, a la Creme 161 



