
HWlkXlS 



MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 

BOOK DEPARTMENT 



:s k: 



SEND YOUR SUBSCRIPTIONS TO US FOR 

MAGAZINES. We can give you best Club Rates. 

WRITE US FOR PRICES 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE LITERATURE 

Boston Cooking School Cook Book - Price, $1 .60 
Mrs. Hills Cooking for Two - - " J .50 
Mrs. Hills* Practical Cooking and Serving 
White House Cook Book 
Mrs. Lincoln s Boston Cook Book 
Mrs. Farmer's New Book of Cookery 
Marion Harland's Cook Book 
AND 
SEND US YOUR ORDER FOR 

CLUB WOMAN'S COOK BOOK 

Every Recipe Tested and Proved Good 
Price, 50c Postage 10c Extra 



Index to Advertisers 



L. S. Donaldson Inside Cover 

Electrical Engineering Company 3 

Sims Malted Wheat 87 

Swans Down Flour 91 

Alfalfa 174 

Woods Electric 185 

Gross Brothers 187 

Pillsbury's Best Flour 189 

Frontenac Inn 191 

Quaker Creamery Co 193 

Shoe Mart 195 

Lathrop Ice Cream 195 

Fries & Patterson 197 

Chapman 197 

Suchafine Biscuit 199 

Dorsett, The Caterers 199 

Ornes Esswein 201 

Rumford "Baking Powder 201 

Edison Phonograph 203 

John W. Thomas Dry Goods Company 205 

Plymouth Clothing House 207 

Holstadt Coffee 207 

Olive Hair Store Inside Back Cover 

American Tent and Awning Co " 



Wash Day hath no terrors — 




for the woman 
who owns an 



"EDEN" 

Home Laundry Machine 

It positively is the last word in 

Safety 
Speed 

Economy 

Thoroughness 




THE 

is an electric ma- 
chine and the fam- 
ily wash can be fin- 
ished in a fraction 
of the usual time, 
at a cost of about 
l§c an hour. 

It washes and 
wrings out, ready 
for the line, the 
finest » as well as the coarsest 
clothes and does both equally well. 

Let us put one in your home on trial. 

Tne "EDEN" can be seen in operation at 

Electrical Engineering Co. 

Jobbers of Electrical Supplies 
21 North Sixth St. MINNEAPOLIS 



—|| II— in IHI I M| || H| || m „,|„, , MMWI „ i,, ^M— — ■ MH^^^M^M | ^— ^^M^— 

CLUB WOMAN'S 
COOK BOOK 



REVISED 1913 




A COLLECTION OF TESTED 
RECEIPTS COMPILED AND 
OR I GIN A LLY PUBLISHED 

BY 

THE RAMBLERS' CLUB 

MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 
1911 



^13 



Copyrighted by 

MRS. THOS. F. QUINBY 

Minneapolis, Minn. 

1911—1913 



M. A. DONOHUE & COMPANY 
PRINTERS :-: :-: CHICAGO 

©CU357171 



Preface 

(To Second Edition) 

This little book, gotten out originally for a philanthropic 
object, has served its purpose, and has proven a success. 

The first edition has long since been exhausted, yet the 
demand for the book has been so widespread and its re- 
ception so cordial that it has seemed best for those who were 
largely responsible for its inception to reproduce it. It has 
been revised and improved, many new things having 
been added to it. We hope it will meet with the same 
favor as did its predecessor. 

Justine I. Quinby, 
Josephine Mather. 



"Of a good beginning 
Cometh a good end." 
11 The chief pleasure in eating, does not consist in costly 
seasoning nor exquisite flavor, but in yourself" — Horace. 



Soups 



"Now, good digestion, wait on appetite and health on both" 

— Shakespeare. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP, 
(a) 1 bunch or 1 can asparagus, 1 qt. hot water, (b) 
1 tbs. butter, 1 tbs. flour; add to 2 cups hot milk, |tsp. salt, 
blade of mace, (c) 1 egg, 1 cup hot thin cream, asparagus 
tips. Add (a to b) when boiling; add (c) and serve. 

Mrs. T. R. Cole. 

ALMOND SOUP WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 
1 cup blanched almonds, 1 qt. thin cream, 1 cup whipped 
cream. To 1 cup blanched almonds chopped fine, add 1 
qt. of thin cream and let simmer 5 minutes. Thicken a very 
little, add salt and a little white pepper and strain; pour 
over this a cup of whipped cream and beat all until foamy; 
serve very hot in heated cups with hot wafers. 

Mrs. W. E. Lockerby. 

CROUTONS. 

Butter bread, sliced \ inch thick and cut in squares. 
Brown in oven. Serve hot. Hazel Willis. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 
1 cup of black beans, soaked over night; drain, put in 
kettle with cold water to cover (about three pts.), 1 onion, 
1 ounce fat meat, 2 tsp. salt, 1 clove and a dash of pepper. 
Cook until beans are soft enough to press through sieve 
(about three hours), add water or stock as it boils away. 
Slice 2 hard boiled eggs and 1 lemon, put in tureen and pour 
the hot soup over them. — Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

9 



CORN SOUP. 

12 ears of sweet corn, well developed. After grating, 
pour 1 pt. of boiling water over the corn cobs. Scrape each 
cob with the back of a silver knife to remove the sweet 
germ. Add to this liquid the grated corn and salt to taste. 
Cook slowly for 15 minutes, stirring constantly to prevent 
burning. Put the mixture in a double boiler. Add about 
1 qt. of milk or enough to thin it to the consistency of cream 
soup. Before serving add J cup of butter and season with 
salt and pepper to taste. A tbs. of whipped cream may be 
added to each plateful. Mrs. Chas. H. Burwell. 

CORN CHOWDER, 
(a) 1 onion sliced, saute with 1 cup raw ham, 1 can corn> 

1 cup raw potato dice, 1 qt. boiling water, (b) 1 tbs. 
butter, 1 tbs. flour, 1 pt. hot milk, f tsp. salt, 2 drops tabasco 
sauce, (c) 6 crackers rolled. Cook (a) ^ hour, add (b); 
when boiling add (c) and serve. Mrs. T. R. Cole. 

CELERY SOUP. 
Cover 1 cup of chopped celery with boiling water, cook 
until tender and add 1 qt. of milk, when this boils, stir in 

2 tsp. corn starch dissolved in a little milk or water, season 
with salt, pepper and butter. When served, add 1 tsp. of 
whipped cream to each cup. Mrs. W. B. MacLean. 

FRENCH SOUP. 
2 tbs. butter, 1 tbs. flour, 1 chopped onion (small). 
Cook the above together until the flour browns, then add 2 
cups tomato and cook ten minutes longer. Strain and add 
to lj qts. beef stock. Season with salt, pepper and celery, 
salt. Mrs. A. A. George. 

10 



MUSHROOM SOUP. 
Clean and chop Jib. mushrooms, add 1 qt. chicken stock; 
cook twenty minutes. Cook J cup of pearl sago in 1 cup 
boiling water thirty minutes, add to stock; as soon as boil- 
ing point is reached add 1 cup of rich, sweet cream and beaten 
yolks of 2 eggs. Heat up and serve. 

Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

NORWEGIAN SWEET SOUP. 

1 pt. cranberries, stewed and strained, \ cup sago cooked 
until clear, 1 cup seedless raisins cooked alone. Put all to- 
gether and sweeten to taste. Flavor with wine or the juice 
of 1 lemon. Decorate with beaten white of egg in spoonfuls. 

Mrs. W. B. MacLean. 

PEA SOUP. 
Can of peas, boil with small onion, when onion is cooked, 
strain through fruit press, add 1 tbs. melted butter, 1 tbs. 
flour, 1 qt. milk, rice if desired. Salt to taste. 

Mrs. R. A. Ensign. 

QUICK POTATO SOUP. 

2 potatoes, 1 pt. milk, 1 tsp. tapioca, 1 tbs. butter, salt 
and pepper to taste. Slice potatoes very thin, cover with 
hot water, add a little salt and cook quickly. When tender, 
mash quickly and add the milk, let boil up, season with 
butter, pepper and salt, and serve in hot cups. A spoonful 
of whipped cream on top of each cup. 

Mrs. W. E. Lockerby. 

NOODLES. 
Beat an egg light, and add as much flour as can be 
kneaded into it. Roll out thin as wafer, let dry, roll and cut 
into strips. Drop into boiling soup. Mrs. C.J. Hedwall. 

11 



CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

1 can of peas, 1 pt. cold water, 1 pt. hot water, 1 qt. hot 
milk, 2 tbs. flour, 1 tsp. salt, 2 tsp. sugar, sprig of parsley, 
dash of pepper, 2 tbs. butter. Drain one can of peas, add 
the cold water, salt, sugar and parsley; cook 20 minutes, 
remove the parsley and press through a sieve, cream the 
butter and flour, add the hot milk and hot water, stirring 
constantly until smooth, add the peas and serve hot, strain 
before serving. Mrs. W. E. Lockerby. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

1 qt. can tomatoes, 1 pt. water, 12 pepper corns, 1 bay 
leaf, 4 cloves, 1 tsp. sugar, 1 slice onion, § tsp. soda, 1 tsp. 
salt, 2 tbs. butter, 2 tbs. flour. Cook first seven ingredients 
twenty minutes, strain, add salt and soda. Mix butter and 
flour smooth, add to hot soup, boil five minutes, strain and 
serve. Mrs. W. E. Lockerby. 

SWIEBACK. 

Cut bakers or other light bread into 1 inch slices and 
brown in a moderate oven. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

1 can tomatoes, J tsp. soda, J cup butter, J cup flour, 
J tsp. salt, \ tsp. white pepper, 1 qt. milk (scalded). Stew 
the tomatoes slowly for § to 1 hour; strain, add soda while 
hot. Make a white sauce, heat the butter until it foams, 
add the flour, salt, pepper, and stir smooth; then add the 
hot milk slowly, stirring constantly. Add the hot tomato 
juice to the white sauce and serve immediately. 
SWISS SOUP. 

\\ qts. of chicken stock, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tsp. flour, 
\ cup of milk. Beat the eggs, flour and milk until smooth. 
Add slowly to the stock which has been heated boiling hot. 
Avoid a second boiling. Season and serve at once with 1 
tbs. of whipped cream. Mrs. A. A. George. 

12 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 
1 small soup bone, or 1 lb. of "ribs of beef," 2 large 
potatoes, \ small cabbage, 1 parsnip, 2 small carrots, 2 
medium onions, 1 small rutabaga, salt, bay leaf, pepper. 
Put the meat on early to boil in cold water. In an hour and 
a half add the cabbage chopped fine, also the onion and 
rutabaga and potato. In a separate kettle boil the parsnip 
and carrots half an hour. Drain, chop fine and add to the 
meat and other vegetables, cook until all the vegetables 
are well done, season and serve. Mrs. Lockerby. 



CONSOMME. 
3 lbs. of lower part of round, 3 lbs. knuckle of veal, 1 
qt. chicken stock, \ cup carrot, \ cup turnip, \ cup 
celery, \ cup sliced onion, 2 tbs. butter, or beef drip- 
pings, 1 tbs. pepper corns, 4 cloves, 3 sprigs thyme, 1 sprig 
marjoram, 2 sprigs parsley, \ bay leaf, 3 qts. cold water. 
Cut the beef in small cubes, and brown \ in some of the 
marrow from the bone, or in beef drippings; put into a 
kettle with cold water and remaining beef; add the veal 
cut in cubes and the bones (cracked) and soak for 1 hour. 
Heat slowly and let simmer 3 hours or longer. Cool and 
remove the fat which has formed a coating over the top of 
stock. Cook the carrot, turnip, onion and celery in butter 
or beef drippings 5 minutes; then add to the stock with 
seasonings and chicken stock. Cook 2 hours longer, strain 
and clarify. To 1 qt. of stock, add the white of 1 egg beaten 
slightly and the crushed shell. Boil 2 minutes and cook 
gently 20 minutes. Remove the scum and strain through 
muslin. Add additional seasonings if desired, reheat and 
serve. Carrots, string beans, peas, spaghetti or macaroni 
cooked and cut in rings may be used as a garnish in con- 
somme. The stock may be made the day before using. 

13 



CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 
1 qt. of milk, 1 tbs. flour, f can of tomato soup, \ cup 
boiling water, \ tsp. of soda Butter and salt to taste. 
Heat milk to a boiling point, then stir in flour that has been 
wet and stirred smooth. Add tomatoes, then soda that has 
been dissolved in a cup of boiling hot water. 

Mrs. Joseph G. Palmer. 



VEAL SOUP (EXCELLENT). 
Put a knuckle of veal into 3 qts. of cold water, adding a 
small tbs. of uncooked rice. Boil slowly, hardly above 
simmering, four hours, when the liquor should be reduced 
\. Into a warm dish put 1 teacup of cream into which has 
been stirred the yolk of an egg. Add a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut, on this strain the soup boiling hot, stirring 
all the time; beat well for a minute. Whipped cream or a 
spoonful of cooked egg white and a small quantity of parsley, 
may be put on top of each serving. 

Mrs. M. G. Rodearmel. 



ONION SOUP. 

Slice 1 lb. round steak in \ inch slices and cut them into 
\\ inch squares. Put into a saucepan a heaping tbs. of beef 
drippings and a tbs of butter. Slice 4 large onions rather 
thin and allow them to fry until they are slightly browned. 
Add the meat and cook slowly about 15 minutes longer. 
Salt to taste and then add 2 qts. of water and let simmer on 
the back of the stove for 4 hours. Ladle out into marmite 
pots and turn over the top of each an inch of melted American 
cheese. 

14 



A THICKENING FOR SOUP. 
Take an egg, beat it a little; put in bowl with a little 
flour; mix, rubbing together between the palms until it 
forms little crumbs. The amount of flour depends upon 
size of egg. Drop into boiling soup and boil a few minutes 
before serving. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 



15 



Fish 

"From the rude sea's enraged and foaming 
mouth . ' ' — Shakespeare . 

STUFFED FISH. 

1 cup bread crumbs, 1 tbs. butter. Melt the butter 
and stir in the crumbs. Sprinkle the inside of the fish 
with a layer of crumbs then a layer of oysters, salt and 
pepper. Cover with crumbs. Put slices of salt pork in 
baking pan. Cook in moderately slow oven until it flakes 
or about \ hour. Mrs. Fred Farling. 

SALMON SOUFFLE. 
Bone thoroughly 1 can salmon, break up well; take 6 
or 8 crackers and add melted butter; juice of f lemon; 1 
to 2 eggs; salt and pepper ; chopped parsley. Add liquid, 
beat and mix thoroughly, butter generously. Press mixture 
in mould and steam 1 hour and leave uncovered the last 
15 minutes. Season quite highly. Serve with cream gravy 
and peas. Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 

STUFFED PIKE. 
Clean the fish and leave head on. Rub salt inside and 
fill with the following stuffing: 1 cup cracker or bread 
crumbs, 1 stsp. salt, 1 stsp. pepper, 1 tsp. chopped onion, 
1 tsp. chopped capers, 1 tsp. chopped parsley, 1 tsp. chopped 
pickle, | cup melted butter. Mix, stuff and sew up fish. 
Put a couple of slices of bacon on the outside. Bake until 
tender with a little water in pan. Any fish may be sub- 
stituted. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

16 



CRAB COCKTAIL 
1 can Izumi Crab Meat, pick it up well, removing any 
small pieces of shell; 1 green pepper, remove seeds and soak 
in salt and water for 1 hour, then chop fine; \\ pimentos, 
lred pepper chopped; 3 tbs. made horseradish ; 3 tbs. lemon 
juice; 3 tbs. vinegar; 2 tbs. olive oil; § tsp. paprika; \ tsp. 
dry mustard; 1 stsp. salt. Serve in high sherbet glasses, 
garnish with sprigs of parsley and sliced pimentos. This 
will serve 8. Mrs. Walter I. Fisher. 

PLANKED SHAD OR WHITEFISH. 

Use only hardwood plank. Maple or oak best. Plank 
should be 3 inches thick, 2 feet long and 1 J feet wide. Heat 
plank very hot, otherwise imparts woody flavor. Wipe fish 
with cold cloth wrung out of water and wipe dry. Lay 
fish open, dredge with salt and pepper and dots of butter. 
Cook 25 minutes before a clear fire or else in a very hot oven. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

SHRIMP A LA NEWBERG. 
1 large can shrimps, washed and picked up. Make a 
rich thickened cream sauce of 1 pt. of milk, season with salt 
and paprika. Wlien cooked add the shrimps and 1 wine 
glass of sherry wine. Put in buttered fish shells, cover with 
browned buttered crumbs and bake 10 minutes. Place shells 
on sprigs of watercress and serve at once. This amount 
serves 8. Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 
1 tbs. Worcestershire sauce, 2 tbs. lemon juice, 1 tbs. 
vinegar, 1 tbs. horseradish, 1 tbs. catsup or chili sauce, \ 
tsp. salt, 4 or 5 drops tabasco sauce. Strain, add to the 
oysters, and serve very cold. Mrs. A. F. Daggett. 

17 



FISH CHOWDER. 
Into the bottom of a kettle put some pieces of fat salt 
pork. Try out and remove the scraps. Place a layer 
of fish cut in good sized pieces, a layer of raw potatoes 
peeled and sliced about J inch thick; a layer of onions 
peeled and sliced about the same; a layer of old fashioned 
Boston soda crackers split; pepper and salt. Then a layer 
of fish and so on until all is used. Pour on just enough water 
or milk to come to the top when the mass is pressed down. 
Cook until the onions are done. Do not stir. Then add 
milk to cover well and a good sized piece of butter. Then 
serve. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Use fresh little neck clams. 2 qts. clams, 3 slices of pork 
chopped fine and fry until brown, 3 qts. potatoes sliced, 1 
pt. of onions chopped very fine. Put pork and fat, potatoes 
and onions in a kettle and cover with cold water and cook 
until thoroughly done. Cover clams and juice with boiling 
water and let stand on fire 2 minutes. Then take clams from 
juice and chop fine. Then add clams and juice to vegetables, 
let stand on the back of range until you are ready to serve it. 
Pinch of cayenne pepper. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

LUTFISK. (Codfish Dry.) 
To prepare the dried fish put in clear water for two days. 
Pour off water and then let remain in weak lime water for 
two days. Then in fresh water two days longer. Now make 
a strong lye; put fish in it for two days; pour off and put 
in fresh water . Changing this latter several times . To serve 
wrap fish in muslin and boil gently about 15 or 20 minutes. 
Drain. Serve with a white sauce adding 1 or 2 chopped 
hard boiled eggs. Serve with boiled potatoes. 

18 



SALMON SOUFFLE. 
3 tbs. butter, 3 tbs. flour, f cup milk, 3 eggs, \ tsp. salt, 
cayenne, 1 cup flaked salmon. Put the butter into a sauce 
pan, and when hot, add the flour and stir until smooth, 
add milk and seasonings. Cook 2 minutes. Remove from 
fire and add the well-beaten yolks and the salmon. Set 
away to cool. When cold ; add the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth. Turn into a buttered dish and bake 20 to 25 
minutes. Serve the moment it comes from the oven. 



OYSTERS ON THE HALF SHELL. 
Serve oysters on the deep halves of the shells, allowing 
6 to each person. Arrange on plates of crushed ice, with 
J of a lemon in the center of each plate. Note: Open the 
oysters with a thin flat knife and remove the smaller or 
right valve of the shell, leaving the oyster in the large half. 



BROILED SHAD. 
Remove the head and tail. Split the shad down the 
back, remove the backbone, place the fish on a broiler, 
skin side down. Then place slice bacon on top and broil 
20 minutes. When half done season with pepper and salt. 
When done pour melted butter over top and garnish with 
lemon and parsley. Have roe fried brown and serve with the 
shad. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 



MINCED LOBSTER. 
Take 2 cups chopped lobster, 1 cup cracker crumbs and 
put in spider with salt and pepper, piece of butter size of an 
egg. Add enough milk to moisten. Cook for a few minutes 
till the milk is absorbed. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

19 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 
Cut lobster into small pieces, heat in 2 tbs. of melted 
butter, add a little salt and paprika, a tbs. of Sherry Brandy, 
or lemon juice. Make a white sauce with 1 tbs. of flour, 1 
tbs. of butter, 1 cup of milk, when slightly thickened add 1 
beaten egg, add the lobster and cook 1 minute. 



LOBSTER CHOWDER. 
1 lb. of lobster chopped rather coarsely. Heat 1 qt. of 
milk thickened with three crackers rolled fine, J cup butter, 
pepper, salt, a dash of cayenne pepper. Add lobster, boil 
a few minutes and serve hot. A small onion chopped may 
be added if liked. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 



FISH PUDDING. 

Boil 3 lbs. of halibut, remove the bones and then mince. 
Grate an onion to flavor and add salt, pepper, a rich cream 
sauce, and well-beaten whites of 3 eggs. Put into a fish 
mold and set in a pan of hot water in the oven for half an 
hour. Turn out on a platter and make eyes and fins of 
hard-boiled egg yolks. Serve with lobster or crab sauce 
made of a rich cream sauce with lobster or crab added. 

Mrs. A. F. Daggett. 



BOILED SALMON. 
Wrap fish in thin muslin and boil in salted water about 
15 minutes to the pound. Serve with sauce made as fol- 
lows: Rub 1 tbs. of butter and 1 of flour to cream in a bowl. 
Add boiling hot water and stir constantly to avoid lumps. 
Do not boil. Add the juice of half a lemon just before 
serving. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

20 



FISH TURBOT. 

Make a white sauce of 1 cup milk and 2 tsp. of flour; 
1 tbs. butter; salt and pepper to taste. Place a layer of 
salmon then sauce until dish is filled, a few bread crumbs 
sprinkled on top and bake 20 minutes. Decorate with pars- 
ley, lemon and hard boiled eggs. Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 

FISH TURBOT. 
1 pt. milk, thicken with 2 tbs. flour; when cool add 2 well 
beaten eggs, \ lb. butter if whitefish is used, with salmon no 
butter is required. Season with little onion or parsley; 1 
can of salmon or 1 lb. minced fish. Bake 30 minutes in a 
moderate oven. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

SALMON IN SHELLS. 
Drain liquid from 2 cans salmon, pick fine and place in 
buttered baking shells. Melt 2 tbs. butter, stir in 2 tbs. 
flour. Place liquid drained from salmon in pt. measure and 
fill with boiling water, add butter and flour; cook until 
smooth. Remove from fire, add yolks of 4 eggs, beaten, 
small sp. full mustard; 1 tbs. vinegar, 2 tbs. olive oil and salt 
to taste. Pour over salmon in shells, strew bread crumbs 
over top, add a little butter and bake until light brown. 
This may be baked in large dish but is nicer in the shells. 

Mrs. F. Darling. 

SALMON LOAF. 

1 lb. can salmon, 4 beaten eggs, 4 tbs. melted butter, § 
cup bread or cracker crumbs, salt and pepper to taste. Mix 
thoroughly, form in loaf and steam 1 hour. Take up on a 
platter and pour over it the following sauce : 

SAUCE. 
\ cup butter, yolks of 2 eggs, juice of 1 lemon, \ level 
tbs. flour, 1 cup boiling water. Cook and pour over the 
loaf. Mrs. Eddy Capps. 

21 



SALMON LOAF. 

1 can salmon, 2 eggs, 2 tbs. melted butter, J cup bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper, 1 sprig minced parsley. Put into 
buttered mold and steam 1 hour. 



SAUCE. 

\ cup milk thickened with 1 tsp. corn starch, heaping 
tsp. butter, liquor from salmon, 1 egg, 1 tbs. tomato catsup. 
Put the beaten egg in last very carefully and cook until 
thick. Pour sauce over fish when ready to serve. 

Mrs. F. Darling. 



LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Roll a nice plump oyster in a very thin slice of bacon, 
pin with a toothpick, fry until bacon is brown and serve on 
very hot dish. 



LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

1 pt. chopped lobster meat, few grains cayenne, J tsp. 
salt, \ tsp. mustard. 



SAUCE. 

2 tbs. butter, \ tsp. salt, J cup flour, few grains white 
pepper, 1 cup milk or cream; add the salt, mustard and 
cayenne to the chopped lobster, add the sauce and spread 
the mixture on a plate. When cold shape into cutlets. Roll 
the cutlets in dry bread crumbs; then in beaten egg, and 
again in bread crumbs. Cook in deep fat until brown. 
Garnish with a claw in the end of each cutlet. 

22 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 
Make white sauce, add 1 can of lobsters, 1 wine glass of 
wine, 1 egg well beaten. Be careful not to cook long after 
the lobster has been added. Mrs. William Gawne. 

ESCALLOPED SALMON. 
Pick salmon into small pieces. Place in baking dish 
with alternate layers of cracker crumbs, cover with rich 
milk, a good piece of butter, pepper, salt and bake — not too 
dry. Mrs. Josephine Schaller 

BAKED OYSTERS. 
1 pt. oysters, 1 small can lobster. Wash and drain the 
oysters by laying on a soft cloth. Put 5 or 6 oysters on 
shells, season with salt and dash of red pepper, cut butter 
into small bits and sprinkle on top. Break the lobster into 
small pieces and with them cover the oysters. Put into a 
hot oven and cook fifteen minutes or until oysters are 
thoroughly heated. Decorate with parsley. Serve at once. 
This will serve six. Suitable for luncheon or supper. Serve 
with it caviar sandwiches. Mrs. H. K. Zuppinger. 

SHRIMPS AND PEAS. 
Melt 2 tbs. butter, add 3 tbs. flour, and pour on gradually 
1 cup of milk or cream, stir until thickened, then add 1 cup 
shrimps, 1 cup of peas, \ tsp salt and a little pepper. Cold 
chicken (cooked) may be used in place of shrimps. 

Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

SAUCE TARTARE. 
Chop fine 1 tsp. capers, 3 olives, 2 gherkins. Season 
quite highly with onion juice. Put in dressing made of 1 
yolk egg, 2 tbs. of either olive oil, peanut oil or melted butter. 
Season with salt and red pepper. Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

23 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 
1 pt. of best oysters, pick over carefully to remove shells, 
1 J cups coarse cracker crumbs. Put a few crumbs in bottom 
of dish, put a layer of oysters (rinse oysters) then a scant 
layer of crumbs, dot generously with butter, add pepper and 
salt and a slight sprinkling of dry mustard, add the rest 
till all is used with a layer of crumbs on top. Pour cream 
over all, just enough to cover when pressed down. Bake 
and serve immediately. Mrs. Albert Schaller. 

SAUCE TO SERVE WITH BAKED FISH. 

Put into a double boiler 1 tsp. of butter. Beat into it 
the yolk of 1 egg, a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper, 2 tbs. 
of boiling water, and 1 tsp. of cider vinegar. Cook and stir 
until it is a little thick and add three drops of lemon juice. 
Keep very hot and closely covered. Serve a small portion 
with each plate of fish. 

MOULDED FISH, NORMANDY SAUCE. 

Remove skin and bones from a thick piece of halibut, 
finely chop fish, and force through a sieve (there should be 
1J cups). Pound in mortar, adding gradually whites 2 eggs. 
Add li cups heavy cream, and salt, pepper, and cayenne to 
taste. Turn into a buttered fish mould, cover with buttered 
paper, set in pan of hot water, and bake until fish is firm. 
Turn on serving dish and surround with Normandy sauce. 

NORMANDY SAUCE. 
Cook skin and bones of fish with 3 sliced carrots, 1 sliced 
onion, sprig of parsley, bit of bay leaf, J tsp. peppercorns, 
and 2 cups cold water, 30 minutes and strain; there should 
be 1 cup. Melt 2 tbs. of butter, add 3 tbs. of flour, fish 
stock, § cup heavy cream, and yolks 2 eggs. Season with 
salt, pepper, cayenne, and Sauterne. 

24 



TOMATO SAUCE (WITH FISH). 
Slice 1 onion, put in dish with tbs. butter and tbs. flour. 
Brown on stove. Pour in 1 qt. of tomatoes (strained) and 
boil a few minutes. Strain all through colander and cook 
until thickened. Miss G. I. Chase. 



55 



Poultry and Meats 

"Some hae meat and carina eat, 
Some hae no teeth to chank it; 
But we hae meat and we can eat, 
An J so the Lord be thank it." 



ROAST TURKEY. 

One cannot be too careful in selecting, preparing and 
baking a turkey. For a large turkey, the male bird about a 
year old is best. For a turkey of about 8 lbs. select the 
female. In dressing a turkey remove the pin feathers under 
the skin with a sharp knife, being careful not to break the 
skin. Singe carefully. Remove the giblets, superfluous fat 
and other parts inside the bird. Wash inside and out. Wipe 
dry with a soft cloth. Clean the giblets. The fowl is now 
ready for the stuffing. 

STUFFING. 

Put the giblets in a skillet with water to cover. Cook 
tender, remove from the liquor, cool and chop fine. For a 
large turkey, add to the liquor J cup of butter, 1 medium 
sized onion chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste and the 
giblets. Heat the mixture. Chop dry bread not too fine. 
Mix the seasoned liquor thoroughly with the bread and a 
little sage. If not moist enough add a little hot water. The 
secret of good stuffing is not to make it too moist. When 
the turkey is carved, the stuffing should roll out lightly. A 
pt. of oysters may be added to the stuffing. The above 
recipe may be used for other fowl. For chicken leave out 
the onion and add more sage. For duck and goose add more 
onion and leave out the sage. 

26 



ROASTING. 

Fill the turkey with stuffing. Do not pack it, although 
the neck may be stuffed to the very tip. Tie a string 
around the skin near the tip and turn back. Sew the turkey 
up. Cover each leg with three thin slices of bacon. Fasten 
on with small skewers or toothpicks. Wrap each leg with a 
soft cloth and sew on. Press the legs to the back and tie 
with a string around the bird. This will make the legs as 
juicy and tender as any part of the fowl. Tie the wings 
closely to the breast. Put the turkey in a roasting pan. 
Slide into a hot oven. Leave the cover off until the fowl is 
thoroughly heated and colored a delicate brown. Then baste 
with hot salted water which contains a little melted butter. 
Cool the oven to a moderate temperature. Roast the bird 
from three to five hours with the cover on the pan, basting 
frequently and just using enough water to make a steam. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 



CHICKEN SOUFFLE. 
1 cup chicken chopped fine, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. pepper, 1 
tsp. chopped parsley or celery, 1 tsp. lemon juice, 1 cup cream 
sauce. Add beaten yolks of 2 eggs then the beaten whites. 
Put in a baking dish and cover with bread crumbs mixed 
with melted butter, bake 20 minutes. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

Cut up in pieces size to serve, wash and wipe dry. Have 
spider hot, put in a little fat, brown slightly each piece, roll 
in flour and place in baking pan, season, put \ cup water in 
spider, add butter size of egg. Pour this gravy over the 
chicken, place in hot oven and bake one hour and half, oc- 
casionally basting. Veal chops or pork tenderloins are very 
nice baked in the same way. Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 

27 



POLANDERS. 
Have steak cut thin and cut in pieces about 3 inches 
square, cut salt pork in 4 strips, put about 3 strips of pork 
on beef roll and tie with a cord, roll in flour, brown in butter, 
1 onion cut fine, then cover with boiling water and let 
simmer an hour. Take out and cut cord then put back in 
gravy and let cook again. Sprinkle 1 tbs. of parsley cut 
fine. Mrs. Burwell. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH. 
1 lb. round steak, cut into 1 inch squares; 1 lb. veal 
steak, cut into 1 inch squares; 1 lb. pork steak, cut into 1 
inch squares; 1 green pepper, chopped; 2 medium sized 
onions. Brown onion and pepper in 3 tbs. hot butter. 
Add meat, stirring it in order to sear all sides, then add 
1 qt. boiling water; 3 tbs. stewed tomato; salt and paprika 
to taste. Cook slowly 2 hours, then thicken the liquid 
slightly and pour over hot baking powder biscuit on platter. 

Mrs. Ernest Z. Wanous. 

FRIED SPRING CHICKEN, COUNTRY STYLE. 

Clean and split 1 spring chicken in half. Lay the halves 
on a meat board and flatten with a pounder. Roll in flour 
seasoned with pepper and salt. Put into a long dripping 
pan, \ cup butter and melt on top of stove. When hot lay 
in the prepared chicken, and put in a very hot oven. When 
the chicken begins to brown baste with the butter. When 
browned cover with a tin, cool the oven a little. 

If the chicken is young and tender and the oven the 
right temperature, f of an hour is sufficient to cook. Make 
a gravy from the brown butter with hot water and thick- 
ening added. Serve with the chicken, fried corn mush or 
browned sweet potatoes. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

28 



DELICIOUS CHICKEN PIE. 

Take a pair of chickens not too young that have been 
carefully dressed; remove all the fat and skin and ten- 
dons from the drumsticks. Place in a sauce pan, cover 
with boiling water, allow them to simmer gently for about 
two hours, keeping them tightly covered during the entire 
time. Remove the chickens from the fire, cut into pieces 
and place in a deep earthenware pie dish. After the chicken 
is removed, add to the liquor in the sauce pan a pt. of milk; 
thicken with 2 tbs. of flour creamed with 1 of butter, season 
with a very little cayenne pepper, some onion juice and salt. 
When thoroughly cooked and just before removing from 
the fire add the well beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Pour over 
the chicken. When both sauce and chicken are quite cold 
place over all a cover of good rich paste, making an incision 
in the center for the steam to escape. Brush over with the 
white of an egg, bake in a moderately hot oven. When the 
paste is cooked the pie will be done. Mrs. E. T. White. 



CHICKEN WITH TOMATOES. 
Cook 4 tbs. of butter with \ a small onion (finely chopped) 
5 minutes; add 5 tbs. of flour and stir until slightly browned. 
Pour on gradually f cup each of chicken stock and tomatoes 
stewed and strained. Add 1 tbs. lemon juice, J tsp. of 
salt and \ tsp. of paprika. Reheat in the sauce 1| cup cold 
cooked fowl cut in cubes. Miss Belle Jeffery. 



RABBIT RAGOUT. 
Parboil 2 rabbits; 1 can tomatoes; little water; 3 large 
or 6 small onions; •§ lb. salt pork; 2 cups vinegar; 1 bay 
leaf; a few cloves and allspice whole, tied in bag; steam 
slowly till done. Mrs. Souki. 

29 



CHOP SUEY. 
2 chickens; 12 onions sliced thin; 2 bunches celery; 2 
cans mushrooms; 4 lbs. rice. Steam rice until tender, cut 
chicken in small pieces. Use natural fat for frying chicken, 
put onions in with chicken when real done, put celery in after 
that and mushrooms; pour juice in after all done, last thing. 
J cup flour; \ cup Chinese liquor; 2 tsp. sugar. Put mush- 
room juice into mixture. E. J. Baske. 



CHICKEN STEW. (With Quick Dumplings) 
Cut up 1 chicken; cover with hot water and stew until 
quite tender; when tender after cooking an hour, add 
salt; peel and slice or cube potatoes; add to stew. When 
the potatoes are partly cooked thicken with flour mixed in 
cold water until the mixture is consistency of a thin gravy. 
Season with a lump of butter, pepper and more salt if neces- 
sary. Then add the dumplings. Cooked peas may be added 
with the seasoning. Mrs. Chas. H. Burwell. 

QUICK DUMPLINGS. 
1 egg, 1 cup milk, 1 heaping tsp. baking powder, \ tsp. 
salt, \\ cups of flour or enough to make a stiff batter. Sift 
the flour, baking powder and salt together. Break the egg 
into a dish, beat slightly, add the milk, beat again, add the 
flour, baking powder and salt mixed, beat up quickly, drop 
with a tbs. on the stew, cover and wrap a towel around the 
kettle to prevent escape of steam. Boil for 15 minutes. 
Serve immediately. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

CREAM SAUCE. 
Rub tbs. butter with tbs. flour; 1 pt. milk and cook 
with a little salt and pepper Mrs. M. G. Rodearmel. 

30 



MUSHROOM SAUCE. 
Drippings from fillet; 2 tbs. butter; 4 tbs. flour; 1 pt. 
stock; 1 pt. canned mushrooms; 1 tsp. Worcestershire 
sauce; salt and pepper. Heat the butter and drippings 
until brown. Add flour and stir until smooth, then the 
stock gradually, stirring constantly; strain; add the mush- 
rooms; cook 5 minutes; then add Worcestershire sauce; 
salt and pepper. The same quantity of cooked mushrooms 
may be used. 

SWEETBREADS IN CASES. 
Cooked sweetbreads, 1 pt; 1 pt. cream; 1 tbs. butter; 
1 tbs. flour; 1 tsp. salt; 1 saltsp. pepper; § can mush- 
rooms; 1 cup bread crumbs; 2 tbs. butter. After sweet- 
breads have been washed and soaked in cold water, put 
them in boiling water with tsp. salt and tbs. vinegar, and 
boil 20 minutes; then plunge into cold water. Scald cream 
in the double boiler; put butter and flour into a frying pan; 
cook until smooth and frothy; add cream, a little at a time. 
Turn back into double boiler to keep warm, and add sea- 
soning. Drain mushrooms from liquor and cut into small 
pieces. Add to crumbs melted butter, salt and pepper. 
Cut sweetbreads into small cakes, put into sauce and add 
mushrooms. Cook until heated through. Fill cases with 
mixture, cover with buttered crumbs; place on tin sheet and 
brown the crumbs. Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

\ lb. sweetbreads put in cold water with juice of 1 lemon. 
Let stand \ hour. Put in cold water and let boil about 20 
minutes. Take off and put in ice water with a little 
salt and let stand until thoroughly cold. Then cover with 
hot cream sauce. This will serve 6 persons. 

Mrs. Moorhead. 

31 



SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 
Take a pair of sweetbreads, lay in cold water for an 
hour to draw out blood. Then boil in slightly salted water 
20 minutes, put into cold water, skin and remove all the 
membranes. Cut into small pieces. Make a rich cream 
sauce, 2 tbs. of butter to 1 of flour, rub smooth and add to 1 
cup milk and cream. Cook rather thick, season with salt and 
pepper and add a beaten egg. It should be a thick mass. 
Add the sweetbreads and a little chopped parsley. Let 
stand over night. In the morning form into croquettes, 
roll in beaten eggs then in cracker crumbs. Do this twice. 
Fry in deep hot lard. Drain on paper and serve hot. May 
be served in patty shells or ramikins, in which case saute a 
few bread-crumbs in butter and sprinkle over the top and 
bake until brown. Mrs. P. M. Aurness. 

SWEETBREAD PATTIES. 

1 pr. sweetbreads; 2 tbs. butter; 2 tbs. flour; white 
pepper; few grains cayenne; 1 cup cream or milk; J tsp. 
salt; 5 large mushrooms, or half as many canned mush- 
rooms as there are sweetbreads. Soak sweetbreads in cold 
water 10 minutes, and parboil 15 minutes. Add salt 5 minutes 
before they are done. Put them in cold water for 15 min- 
utes, then remove the tough portions. Separate the sweet- 
breads into small pieces and chop the mushrooms fine. Make 
a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings and cream; 
add the sweetbreads and the mushrooms and when hot 
serve in patty dishes or timbales. If desired, the mush- 
rooms may be omitted and twice as many sweetbreads used. 

HAM PATTIES. 

2 cups chopped ham; 3 cups bread crumbs wet with 
sweet milk. Put in gem tins and break an egg over each 
and bake until brown. Mrs. N. S. Davis. 

32 



JUMBOLIO (Spanish). 
Put 1 tbs. butter in frying pan; cut up one small onion 
fine; add 1 cup minced ham and fry; 1 cup uncooked rice; 
2 cups beef stock or extract of beef, added to onion and ham. 
2 cups strained tomatoes. Season with 3 bay leaves, a little 
cayenne pepper; a little salt; | tsp. curry powder, £ tsp. 
thyme. Mix well and bake slowly two hours or more. Stir 
occasionally and add more water or tomato and stock if 
needed. Mrs. Freemire. 



CAROLINE MONTAGUE'S HAM. 

Get a hickory-cured ham. Soak it overnight, change 
the water in the morning and soak until noon. Boil, al- 
lowing 20 minutes to a pound. Change the water once. 
In second water put enough to half cover the ham, and 
add 1 cup of cider or sherry. Take out, make incisions, 
put in 12 bruised cloves. Make a paste of brown sugar 
moistened with cider and well peppered. Spread on ham. 
Put in the oven. Bake 15 minutes, basting with weak 
sherry or sweet cider. Take out, cover or sprinkle lightly 
with bread crumbs and bake 10 minutes. Serve as a roast. 

Mrs. William De la Barre. 



A DELICIOUS METHOD OF COOKING HAM 
Procure a slice of ham from 4 to 5 inches thick — boil 
15 minutes, pour off the water, put fresh water, again 
boil 15 minutes, pour off water; stir into the yolk of 1 
egg all the pulverized sugar that will mix smooth; remove 
the rind from ham and smooth this paste of egg and sugar 
over the top; fill the ham with cloves stuck in. Bake one 
hour. Just try this — good cold or hot. You can use slice 
of ham three inches thick if you wish. Mrs. M. B. Lewis. 

33 



BAKED HAM. 
Slice of ham 1} or 2 inches thick; yolk of 1 egg; 1 tsp. 
mustard; whole cloves; brown sugar; J cup vinegar; \ 
cup water. Parboil the ham three times; then while it 
is still hot stick whole cloves about an inch apart in both 
sides of ham. To the beaten yolk of the egg add 1 tsp. mus- 
tard and enough brown sugar to make a thick paste. Spread 
this mixture on both sides of ham and let stand several 
hours. About half an hour before the ham is to be served 
place it in an earthen baking dish with § cup water and 
\ cup vinegar. Turn ham several times and baste frequently. 
If necessary add more water when it is baking. Serve the 
gravy with the ham. Mrs. P. R. Robb. 



POT ROAST (SAURBRATEN). 
6 lbs. of beef from shoulder. Put into a jar and add 
3 bay leaves; 1 large onion sliced; \ dozen cloves; \ dozen 
allspice; pepper and salt. Cover with vinegar. Let stand 
5 or 6 days. When ready to use put 3 tbs. lard or drippings 
into an iron kettle. When lard is hot put in the meat and 
sear on both sides until well browned. Cover with beef 
broth or water. Add a little of the vinegar, onions and 
spices. Let it simmer about 2 hours or until the meat is 
tender. When done take out the meat; add 2 tbs. browned 
flour mixed smooth with water to the gravy. Let boil a 
few moments and serve . Mrs . J . B . Lambert . 



SPANISH RAREBIT. 
Fry 1 tsp. onion in 1 tbs. butter; add 2 cups strained 
tomatoes; f cup grated cheese. When heated add 4 eggs 
beaten. Serve on toast or crackers. Gladys A. Campbell. 

34 



A PALATABLE POLISH STEW 
1 lb. of top of the round steak; 1 cup of bread crumbs; 
2 tbs. of chopped suet; 1 onion; 1 heaping tsp. of chopped 
parsley; 1 egg or a little milk; 1 tbs. of flour; 2 cups of 
water or stock. Have the steak in one thin slice as broad 
as possible. Mix in a small basin the bread crumbs, suet, 
parsley, half the onion parboiled and chopped, pepper and 
salt to season it. Then the beaten egg or milk to barely 
moisten the whole. Gather this all up in a lump like a large 
egg. Roll it up inside of the meat and tie it with string. 
Put into a saucepan 1 tbs. of drippings; chop half an onion 
and fry it a little, then add the meat and fry it all round. 
Mix the flour, water, a little pepper and salt together, pour 
it in, and let the whole stew for about f of an hour. Take 
up the meat, removing the string; pour the gravy over it. 
Parboiling the onion renders it not quite so strong, and it 
is more palatable in the stuffing. 



BROILED OR SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Cut chicken into pieces, lay in dripping pan and sprin- 
kle with salt, pepper well, dredge with flour, put small 
bits of butter over all, using about the size of an egg for 
each chicken, cover and bake forty minutes, remove cover 
and bake brown. Mrs. William Gawne. 



PRESSED MEATS. 
2 shanks veal; six pork chops. Pour boiling water over 
all; add 2 cloves, 2 bay leaves, 2 onions. Let simmer 3 
hours. Pick meat from bones; put in a mould and pour 
juice over top. There should be about 2 cups of liquid. 

Mrs. E. Z. Warnous. 

35 



VEAL BIRDS. 
1 slice of veal 1 inch thick, cut into small squares, pounded 
flat; spread with equal amount of bacon and onion; run 
through meat grinder; roll up and tie; roll in flour, pepper 
and salt mixture; place in very hot spider containing 1 tbs. 
of butter and 2 slices of bacon; brown on all sides quickly; 
cover with boiling water and let simmer 2 hours; thicken 
gravy; add \ cup cream to gravy. Mrs. Pierce. 

CASSEROLE OF RICE AND MEAT 
Line a mould, slightly buttered, with steamed rice; 
fill center with 2 cups of finely chopped cooked mutton; 
season with salt, pepper, celery salt and onion juice; then 
add I cup cracker crumbs; one egg slightly beaten and 
enough hot stock or water to moisten. Cover meat with 
rice; cover rice with buttered paper while steaming. Steam 
45 minutes. Serve on a platter with tomato sauce. Veal or 
chicken may be used instead of mutton. Mrs. T. R. Cole. 

AN ITALIAN STEW. 
1 lb. of pork chopped, salted and fried brown in kettle; 
add 1 can of tomatoes; \ can of water; 1 package of spa- 
ghetti (broken once). Cover tightly and let simmer 1 hour. 
Then add 1 tbs. of grated cheese and pinch of cayenne 
pepper. Very good. Mrs. W. G. Benjamin. 



FLANK STEAK WITH TOMATO SAUCE 
Season a flank steak and brown in drippings in a spider ; 
heat a can of tomato, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a 
bay leaf; strain and thicken with 1 tbs. of butter and 1 tbs. 
of flour. Turn this over the steak, cover and let simmer 
until tender. Mrs. Geo. S. Davis. 

36 



MEAT PIE (PASTETE). 
4 lbs. lean loin of pork; 2 good sized onions sliced; 3 
bay leaves; salt and pepper. Cut the meat into pieces 
3 inches square and 1 inch thick. Put into a jar with onions, 
bay leaves, salt and pepper. Cover with vinegar and let 
stand four days. 

PASTRY FOR SAME. 
2 qts. of flour; pinch of salt; 1 lb. butter or half butter 
and half lard. Mix § butter with flour. Use enough 
water to make dough not too soft. Then roll out and 
spread with a part of the remaining butter. Fold and 
roll again. Proceed in this manner till all the butter is 
used. Beating with rolling pin after each folding improves 
the dough. Roll out | inch thick for lower crust. Line a 
dripping pan. Put in a layer of meat. Cover with chopped 
onion and parsley, then cover with a layer of dough not as 
thick as the lower crust. Put on another layer of meat and 
so on, then add the top crust, about same as the middle 
crust. Lap the upper crust over the under crust. Glaze 
the top with beaten egg. Bake two hours in a slow oven. 

Mrs. J. B. Lambert. 

MEAT LOAF. 

2 lbs. beef; J lb. pork; small onion; 3 slices of bread 
soaked in milk; salt and pepper; 2 eggs. Make in loaf in 
bread pan, and set in a dish of hot water and bake one 
hour. Mrs. Moreau. 

WILD DUCK EN CASSEROLE. 

Skin and split; wash and rub well with salt; pound flat 
so that they will lay flat in pan. Put a large piece of butter 
in a frying pan and fry until brown, put in casserole, add a 
cup of water and let cook slowly one hour. Add \ pt. cream. 

Mrs. F. W. Schimmel. 

37 



PRESSED MEAT. 
Wash carefully 8 lbs. of beef plate. Put in a kettle. 
Cover with boiling water to retain the juices. Boil for a 
minute and skim. Add a few whole cloves. Set back on 
stove, slowly simmer until thoroughly cooked. That is, so 
tender until the meat drops to pieces. Remove from the 
stove. Let stand until cool enough to be handled. Take 
the meat from the liquor and take out the bone, gristle and 
tough white part. Separate, with the fingers, the meat into 
small pieces. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Press 
into a mold. Let stand over night in a cold place. The 
lean, fat and liquor should be in such proportion that the 
meat will slice without crumbling. A shoulder of veal 
may be used, or veal and beef together is delicious. Never 
boil. "Meat boiled is meat spoiled." 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING WITH ROAST BEEF 
2 eggs; 1 cup milk; 1 cup flour; a little salt. Mix and 
sift salt and flour; add the milk gradually to make a smooth 
batter. Beat egg light and add to batter; beat well; bake 
in gem pans for 35 minutes. Baste with drippings from beef 
after they are well risen. If preferred, batter may be poured 
in roasting pan and baked with roast on rack above it; in 
this way will baste itself. Serve cut in squares with the 
meat. 

BRAISED APPLES AND TENDERLOIN 

Individual tenderloin cut in small pieces; cut pocket in 
each; stuff with dressing and roast § hour. Take red apples, 
core and quarter without peeling; roll apples in plenty of 
granulated sugar that has a little cinnamon in. Lay on top 
of tenderloin with skin side up and bake until done. Serve 
quarter on each piece of tenderloin. Mrs. Douglas Webster. 

38 



BEEF POT ROAST 
Get a 5 lb. piece of beef from the shoulder; cut up 
some pieces of suet with 1 small onion and brown in an 
iron kettle or fry in spider. When well browned on all 
sides add boiling water, which hardly covers the meat. 
Add 2 bay leaves. Cover closely and let simmer slowly 
until tender or at least 5 hours. Salt, roast half hour 
before time for serving. When roast is cooked take out of 
kettle and add enough water to the kettle to make sufficient 
amount of gravy; thicken with 3 tbs. of flour mixed smoothly 
in water. Boil gravy for about 5 minutes, then strain. It 
is very appetizing to boil with the meat some carrots sliced 
lengthwise and serve on platter with meat. 

Mrs. Paul A. Schmitt. 

BABOTEE (COLD MEAT LOAF). 

Put 2 tbs. of butter in frying pan; slice into this § small 
onion; cook until soft; add 2 oz. bread crumbs; 1 cup milk; 
take from fire and let stand 10 minutes. Add 8 almonds; 
1 pt. of cold chopped meat; J tsp. curry powder; 3 eggs; 
mix all and put in loaf . Bake 20 minutes. Mrs. Martin. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Cook a knuckle of veal until tender with bay leaves, 
onion, celery salt, cloves, salt pepper and parsley. Let 
stand until cool, then take the meat and chop very fine. 
Take about two good sized onions and chop fine. Then 
fry until done in plenty of butter. Add either 1 cup of rice 
or mashed potatoes, with meat and onions, mixing thorough- 
ly. If too dry add some of liquor. This is best made one 
day and served next. Mold into croquettes, dip in egg and 
roll in cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat or with part butter 
and lard. Serve with peas or tomato sauce. 

Mrs. Hugh Wakefield. 

39 



PORK PIE. 
2 lbs. of lean porksteak; cut in dice size of domino 
sugar; § lb. of salt pork chopped fine; a small onion chopped 
not too fine; 3 potatoes cut in dice size of meat. Mix well 
together and pour over this 1 cup hot water; 2 tbs. of butter; 
pepper and salt to taste. Stew until meat is tender. Line 
deep pan with rich biscuit dough; pour in stew; put strips 
of dough on the top. Bake until crust is done. 

Mrs. Charles H. Johnson. 

HASH. 

About lb. of round steak or cold roast beef; 1 pt. 
tomatoes; 2 green peppers; 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce; 

1 tbs. catsup; 2 big onions; about 5 Zwieback or toast; 
J cup butter; salt. Meat, toast, onions and peppers 
should be ground or chopped. A little stock or gravy 
added to this will improve it. Sprinkle a little toast over 
top with bits of butter and bake 25 or 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Kissing. 

BEEF LOAF. 

1 lb. chopped beef; 2 eggs; 1 cup bread crumbs; J cup 
milk; 2 tsp. salt; 1 tsp. pepper. Make into loaf. Put 

2 tbs. butter into frying pan and brown loaf in it. Slice 
1 onion and 6 bay leaves; put in pan with meat and cover 
with * water and boil 1 hour. Serve either with gravy or 
tomato sauce. Mrs. Fred Darling. 

PORK TENDERLOIN WITH BACON. 

\ lb. of bacon, sliced thin; 2 lbs pork tenderloin, cut 
round. Fry bacon and take out. Dip tenderloin in flour 
and fry. Before removing tenderloin, pour in one cup of 
cream and then let cook a few minutes. Remove and 
garnish with bacon. Mrs. George H. Rentz. 

40 



FILLET OF BEEF. 
1 fillet of beef; 1 small onion; 1 small carrot; 1 stalk 
celery; 4 cloves; 2 bay leaves. Have butcher lard the fillet 
with salt pork. Remove any tough membrane and excess 
of fat. Slice the onion, carrot and celery, and place them 
with the cloves and bay leaves in the bottom of the pan. 
Place fillet on vegetables, or on a meat rack; season with 
salt and pepper and bits of butter. Dissolve 1 tsp. salt in 
\ cup boiling water, and pour into pan. Bake in a hot 
oven 30 or 40 minutes. Baste frequently. A mushroom 
sauce may be served with a fillet, or a brown gravy may be 
substituted. 

VEAL WITH BACON. 
\ lb. of bacon and 2 lbs. of veal steak. Fry bacon and 
take out. Dip veal in egg and cracker crumbs, and brown; 
then pour boiling water over, enough to cover meat, placing 
cover over spider, and let slowly simmer until meat is tender 
and water has boiled down to form a gravy. This will take 
about one hour. Then remove, put meat on a platter and 
pour gravy over and garnish with bacon. 

Mrs. George H. Rentz. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 
1 tbs. butter; 1 tbs. flour; 1 cup milk; 1 egg; 1 saltspoon 
pepper; \ lb. smoked beef. Have beef sliced very thin. 
Pour boiling water on it. Let stand ten minutes in order 
that it may taste less of salt. Melt butter, add the flour, 
then hot milk gradually, then the seasoning. Beat egg and 
add sauce to it gradually. Drain water from meat and heat 
it in tbs. butter until the edges curl up. Drain butter from 
it and pour sauce over meat. Serve at once or it is likely 
to curdle. Instead of the sauce 1 cup cream may be added 
to the beef after it is cooked. Mrs. W.J. Moorhead. 

41 



VEAL CUTLETS. 
Wipe and remove bone, skin and tough membranes. 
Cover the bone and tough pieces of meat with cold water 
and cook at a low temperature. This stock may be used 
in the sauce. Season the veal with salt and pepper. Roll 
in fine bread crumbs; dip in beaten egg; then in crumbs 
again. Use wooden skewers to hold cutlets together. Melt 
2 tbs. of drippings, or butter, and brown the cutlets in the 
hot fat. When browned, put the cutlets into a stew pan. 

SAUCE FOR CUTLETS. 
2 tbs. drippings; J cup flour; 1 pt. stock, or water; 1 
tsp. or more of Worcestershire sauce; 2 tbs. chopped pars- 
ley. Prepare as a white sauce, after letting the drippings 
brown, and pour over the cutlets and cook at a low tempera- 
ture for 1 hour, or until tender. Garnish with parsley. 

SAUSAGE 

6 lbs. pork fat and lean; grated peel of \ lemon; juice 
of 1 lemon; 1 grated nutmeg; 1 tsp. black pepper; 1 tsp. 
cayenne pepper; 5 tsp. salt; 3 tsp. sweet marjoram and 
thyme mixed; 2 tsp. sage. Make into balls. Be sure 
and mix thoroughly and then it is ready for use. Will keep 
a long time in the winter, if kept cool. 

Mrs. M. G. Rodearmel. 

COUNTRY PORK SAUSAGE. 
6 lbs. lean pork; 3 lbs. fat pork; 3 tbs. salt; 2 tbs. 
black pepper; \ tsp. red pepper; 4 tbs. sifted sage. Put 
the pork through the meat grinder, add seasoning and mix 
thoroughly; grind again, so the meat may be nice and fine. 
Savory, mace, cloves and nutmeg may be added if desired. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

42 



MEAT LOAF AND TOMATO SAUCE. 
2 lbs. beef chopped; 1 lb. fresh pork; 1 lb. veal; butter 
size of an egg; salt, 1J tbs. (level); 1 tbs. (small) pepper; 
2 eggs beaten lightly ; f cup bread crumbs; J cup water and 
2 tbs. of milk; bake 2 hours. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 
1 can tomatoes boiled; thoroughly seasoned with a 
few celery tops; parsley; 1 onion; dash of paprika; pepper 
and bay leaf. Strain and thicken with corn flour. 

CURRIED CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE. 
Cut up the chicken, salt and pepper well and roll in 
flour. Have ready a frying pan with hot fat. Brown as for 
fried chicken. Now place in casserole; add a root or two 
of celery, an onion, about a cup of water, and f tsp. of curry 
powder. Cover closely and set on fire. When it comes to a 
boil, turn down fire and cook slowly until tender. I use 
the heavy crockery casserole for most of these things putting 
a piece of sheet iron under it so as not to have it come in 
contact with the flame, add J pt. cream and thicken for 
gravy. Mrs. Quinby. 

MINT AND ORANGE TO SERVE WITH LAMB. 

\ orange to person; 1 tbs. sugar to an orange. Pull 
sections apart and cut each section in half then sprinkle 
well with chopped mint. Put sugar over mint then put on 
1 tsp. of sherry wine to an orange. Let stand on ice for 
a couple of hours. Serve in sherbet glasses. 

Mrs. Douglas Webster. 

LEMON SAUCE (TO SERVE WITH LAMB). 
Juice of 1 lemon; add butter size of walnut; dash of 
cayenne pepper; add 4 leaves of mint chopped. Heat and 
pour over meat when it is served. Miss G. I. Chase. 

43 



ORANGE AND MINT SAUCE FOR ROAST LAMB 
Quarter 3 oranges and cut in small pieces. Add the 
juice of 1 lemon. Boil J cup sugar with a little water 
until it threads slightly. Add 4 leaves of mint chopped. 
Prepare in the morning and set on ice until time to serve. 
Serve in sherbet glasses. Miss G. I. Chase. 

CHOP SUEY. 

First have stew kettle on with 2 cans of strained toma- 
toes seasoned well with salt, pepper, and butter. Trim off 
all fat and sinews from a slice of round steak. Put the fat 
into a frying pan and let fry out. Remove the scraps from 
pan and keep the fat hot. Cut the steak into small pieces 
and throw into hot fat. Slice then 1 large or 2 small onions 
into steak, season with pepper and salt; stir to prevent 
burning. Cook until steak is brown and tender, then 
throw into the kettle of stewed tomatoes. Set kettle back 
where it will stew slowly and add \ lb. butter. Must be 
highly seasoned or to suit taste. 

Noodles : Two eggs beaten light, \ cup cold water, pinch 
of salt, flour to make a stiff dough. Roll out very thin, cut 
into strips about \\ inches wide. Have kettle half full of 
boiling water, rather salty. Drop noodles in, boil \ hour; 
turn into colander and drain; then add noodles to tomatoes 
and steak. Stir to mix noodles thoroughly. This is good 
warmed over. Chicken or veal may be substituted for the 
steak. Mrs. Walker. 



44 



Vegetables 

11 Man does not live by bread alone." — Deuteronomy. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak a qt. of small white beans over night in cold water. 
Pour off all the water, cover with fresh and pour off again. 
Put over the fire with enough fresh water to cover 
the beans and J saltspoon of soda. When the water begins 
to boil pour it off at once and put the beans in a colander. 
Allow fresh cold water to run through them, rinsing them 
thoroughly. This gives them the firmness which keeps 
them from getting " mushy. " Lay a very thin slice of salt 
pork in the bottom of the bean pot. Put a whole small onion 
on pork and pour in the beans. Take § lb. of salt pork, score 
the rind every ^ inch and press into the beans, allowing just 
the rind to show. Add a tsp. of salt unless the pork is very 
salty. If it is only add J tsp. Add a saltspoon of ground 
mustard and 2 lbs. of molasses, more if beans are liked 
quite sweet. Cover with cold water, set in slow oven and 
bake from 8 to 10 hours, having a slow, steady beat. As 
the water boils off add more, but be sure it is boiling and do 
not add water within an hour of serving. They will be a 
beautiful brown, moist, tender and whole, with an in- 
describable delightful flavor. By no means omit the onion. 

Mrs. Charles Hedwall. 



CHOPPED BEETS. 
Beets boiled and chopped. Add pepper and salt. Put 
in a large piece of butter, heat in spider and serve. 

Mrs. Quinby. 

45 



DUCHESS POTATOES. 
2 cups hot minced potatoes; 2 tbs. butter; \ tsp. salt; 
3 eggs, yolks; add the butter and salt to the hot potatoes; 
let cool then add the yolks of eggs slightly beaten. Shape 
in form of baskets, pyramids, roses, etc., using a pastry bag 
and tube. Brush over with beaten white of egg diluted 
with 1 tbs. water and brown in hot oven 

BEAN RAREBIT. 

Melt 2 tbs. butter; add \ tsp. of salt; \ tsp. paprika; 
1 cup cold baked beans pressed through a strainer. When 
mixture is thoroughly heated, add gradually § cup milk and 
when blended with the other ingredients 2-3 cup soft cheese 
finely cut and f tsp. Worcestershire sauce. Stir constantly 
until cheese is melted. Serve on zephyrettes. 

Miss Belle Jeffery. 

CARROTS. 
Take carrots, scrape, cut into small pieces and boil 
tender; drain; brown some bread crumbs in a frying pan 
with butter, throw the carrots into it and toss well up. 
Serve. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 
Pare cucumbers and cut into thick slices; dip into 
beaten egg which has been seasoned with salt and pep- 
per, then roll in fine cracker crumbs and fry in frying pan 
a light brown. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

BAKED BEETS. 

Wash and clean beets; bake J of an hour, turning them 
often with knife instead of fork so as to not let juice out. 
When done remove skins and serve with butter, salt and 
pepper on the slices. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

46 



STUFFED CABBAGE. 
Select a hard cabbage; cut out the root end in shape 
of a lid. Scoop out the cabbage, making a space for the 
meat but leaving thick enough walls. Then wash the 
cabbage thoroughly. Mince fine or put through a grinder 
twice, | lb. lean pork and J lb. lean beef (for small sized 
cabbage); season with 1 small onion; pepper and salt; 
2 eggs; 1 tbs. of flour and a little sweet milk to shape into 
a loaf, not too soft; stir all well together; fill the cavity 
of the cabbage, packing tightly and smooth; put on the 
lid and tie up tight in a linen cloth. Boil slowly in a large 
kettle covered with water for 4 to 5 hours, according to 
size of cabbage and filling. Serve hot immediately, slicing 
as wanted with hot butter for sauce. 

Mrs. J. A. Gregg, Burlington, Iowa. 

POTATO PUFF. 

1 pt. mashed potatoes; 1 tsp. salt; J tsp. pepper; § tsp. 
celery salt; 2 tbs. butter; 2 tbs. parsley; 2 eggs; y& cup 
milk. Add all ingredients except the eggs to the hot pota- 
toes. Beat the eggs separately; then add the yolks to the 
potatoes and fold in the whites. Put in a buttered baking 
dish and bake in a moderately hot oven until puffed and 
brown. Serve immediately. 

ESCALLOPED CORN. 
Cut corn from a dozen ears; be sure and not cut down 
into the cob; take the back of knife and push out the juice 
and small kernels. Put into an earthen dish; add a dash 
of cayenne; J tsp. salt; J cup of butter cut in small pieces; 
1 small cup of cream; 1 tsp. sugar. Stir all together, 
sprinkle fine bread crumbs on top and bake in a hot oven 
15 minutes. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

47 



ITALIAN CAULIFLOWER. 
Take a large cauliflower, wash and put on in salted 
boiling water to cook; cook till tender. Carefully re- 
move with a skimmer so as not to break it. Put on a 
platter, flower side up; have ready a white sauce, and 
with a spoon dip the sauce over it. Then grate a gener- 
ous amount of cheese over it; dot with bits of butter and 
sprinkle with bread crumbs. Bake 20 minutes in a hot 
oven. Send to table on same dish, garnished with water 
cress or parsley. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 



DUMPLINGS (KNOEPFLE). 
1 qt. flour; a little salt; 2 eggs beaten into the flour 
with enough water to make a stiff batter. Have ready a 
kettle of boiling salted water. Put the batter on a plate 
and as it runs over the edge cut it off into small pieces 
with a knife, dropping into the boiling water. Dipping 
the knife into the hot water will prevent the dough from 
sticking to it. When the dumplings rise to the top of 
the water they are done. Skim out into serving dish. 
Then put 2 tbs. butter into a frying pan. When hot add 
2 scant tbs. bread crumbs. Fry brown. Pour over dump- 
lings and serve. A little baking powder may be added to 
flour if desired. May take the place of a vegetable. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 



DUMPLINGS (KNOEPFLE.) 
1 qt. flour; add a little salt; and milk to make a stiff 
batter. Beat in gradually 3 eggs, 1 at a time. Cook the 
same as above. If any are left over they may be fried in 
butter like potatoes. Mrs. C. J. Hedwall. 



BROILED TOMATOES. 

Choose tomatoes which are not dead ripe. Cut unpeeled, 

in thick slices; dust with pepper, salt and powdered sugar. 

Roll in hot melted butter, then in finely sifted bread crumbs, 

and brown in a wire broiler over coals, or on a gas broiler. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Wash, peel and drain slice rather thin. To every qt.add 
a teacupful of cold water; salt and pepper to taste. Simmer 
for 5 minutes and add a tbs. of butter rubbed into a tbs. of 
flour. Remove as soon as it bubbles. Add a tsp. of lemon 
juice if desired. 

FRIED MUSHROOMS. 
Place the gill side downward in hot butter, in granite 
pan. Fry covered for 5 minutes, turning once. Serve 
gills upward, adding salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice 
if liked. 

MUSHROOMS IN SHELLS. 

Cut fresh dressed mushrooms in small pieces, dry in 
a napkin and toss them in hot butter in a sauce pan until 
brown, but not done. Shake in a tsp. of flour, stir, add a 
cup. of rich veal or chicken stock, and let simmer for 5 
minutes. Beat 2 eggs with the juice of half a lemon and 
add slowly, stirring until as thick as cream. Fill table 
shells with the mixture, sprinkle with cracker crumbs and 
brown in a hot oven. 

MUSHROOM PATTIES. 

Prepare the same mixture as above. Have hot shells 
of puff paste that have been baked in patty pans. Drop 
a spoonful in each and serve hot. 

49 



SCALLOPED MUSHROOMS. 
Place alternate layers of cracker crumbs and mush- 
rooms in a thickly covered baking dish and season each 
layer highly with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. 
Have the last layer of crumbs. Dot with bits of butter. 
Pour a teacupful of cream or delicate stock over. Bake 
20 minutes and serve very hot. 



STUFFED MUSHROOMS. 
To 1 cup of chopped mushrooms add 1 tsp. of grated 
onion and put on the stove to heat in a little cream and 
butter. Fill large mushrooms with the mixture, which has 
been highly seasoned. Lay them thickly on a buttered 
dish, sprinkle each with fine salted bread crumbs, bake for 
10 minutes in a hot oven and serve. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 



DELICATESSEN POTATOES. 
10 baked potatoes; cream sauce; 4 tbs. of toasted 
bread crumbs; 2 tbs. melted butter. Crumble the pota- 
toes while warm before taking out of the shells. Make 
a very thick cream sauce, using 4 tbs. of flour and 3 tbs. of 
melted butter; add milk until a thick sauce is made. Season 
with salt and pepper. Put a layer of potatoes in a baking 
dish, then a layer of cream sauce; 2 layers of each is suffi- 
cient. Bake until the cream sauce browns on top. Put 
toasted bread crumbs in saucepan with 2 tbs. of melted 
butter; when hot cover the scalloped potatoes with these 
just before serving. The success of this dish depends on 
using baked potatoes and having the cream sauce thick 
enough to make a layer that will not mix with the potatoes. 

Mrs. Emmett T. White. 

50 



CREAMED CELERY. 

Cut up celery. Boil until tender. Drain, season with 
butter, pepper and salt. Add \ cup sweet cream and 
serve. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 



STEAMED SWEET POTATOES. 
Pare and slice about \ of an inch thick. Put into a dish 
with a large piece of butter, pepper and salt and a little 
sugar. Steam until tender. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 



POTATO FARCI. 

Select potatoes of even size, pare and cut off about \ 
from one end. Hollow out center with a small knife or with 
a pointed applecorer and fill with chopped cooked or raw 
beef, mutton or chicken, well seasoned, or use sausage meat. 
Set the potatoes in a pan in a hot oven and bake until done. 
When served add a spoonful of stock gravy to each potato. 
Garnish with springs of parsley. For a brown gravy, to 
add to these stuffed potatoes or to serve with them, fry 2 
level tbs. chopped onion in 2 level tbs. butter until yellow, 
then stir in 2 level tbs. dry flour and finally add \ pt. boiling 
water gradually and season with salt and pepper. Beat 
until smooth, then after cooking 5 minutes strain through a 
wire strainer. Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 



BROWNED POTATO BALLS. 
Cut raw potatoes into balls. Boil them in stock 
seasoned with onion until not quite tender. Put them into 
a shallow baking pan covered with melted butter, just 
enough to brown them nicely in a hot oven. Before serving 
sprinkle with finely minced parsley. Mrs. E. T. White. 

51 



POTATOES AU GRATIN. 
Slice raw potatoes thin into a dish; put plenty of butter 
with them, and plenty of cheese broken into small pieces; 
salt and pepper well; cover the potato with milk. Bake 
almost an hour. Mrs. Albert Schaller. 



MASHED POTATOES WITH CHEESE SAUCE. 

Boil potatoes and mash them; to each § doz. large ones 
add tbs. of butter, pepper and salt to taste; \ cup of milk; 
form into conical shape with ice cream scoop or small cups 
first rinsed in cold water and set on platter in oven to keep 
hot. Leave the oven door partly open so the potatoes will 
not dry. While potatoes are boiling make sauce. Melt 1 
tbs. butter in double boiler, add 1 tbs. of flour and thoroughly 
blend; add 1 cup of hot milk seasoned with dash of paprika 
and salt to taste. When this is smooth stir in 1 cup of 
grated cheese, or cheese run through meat chopper; cheese 
will melt in a short time. Keep sauce hot in double boiler 
until potatoes are ready. Send potatoes to table on platter, 
sauce in gravy boat. Excellent with broiled steak. 

Mrs. E. T. White. 



"KRUMPLI NUDLI" HUNGARIAN. 
(POTATO NOODLES.) 
Boil the potatoes with the skins on. When done skin, 
mash, season with salt and pepper, and add flour enough to 
make a paste. Roll into small croquettes and drop into a 
kettle of deep, hot fat. As soon as done put into a hot 
colander and drain. Put into a dish and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and bake for ten minutes in a hot oven. 

Miss Browning. 

52 



MUSHROOMS CREAMED. 
Cook precisely as directed for stewed mushrooms, 
omitting the lemon juice and adding 3 tbs. of rich, sweet 
cream. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 



MACARONI. 

1 cup macaroni, broken in small pieces, boiled in salted 
water and blanched in cold; 1 cup soft bread crumbs; 1 
cup scalded cream; J cup butter; 1 cup grated cheese 2 
eggs beaten light; 1 tsp. chopped parsley; \ tsp. salt; 1 
chopped pimento; very little chopped onion. Put in well 
buttered dish and bake f of an hour with baking dish in 
pan of water. 



FANCY CREAMED POTATOES WITH CHEESE. 

Cut into dice shape cold boiled potatoes ; put into a stew 
pan; cover with cream; add a generous quantity of butter 
and enough corn starch to thicken. Be sure that corn 
starch is thoroughly cooked; then add a generous amount of 
grated cheese. Have a frying pan with plenty of melted 
butter; put potatoes into pan and fry 8 minutes. The 
flavor of potatoes is impaired if allowed to cook too long. 

Mrs. W. A. Mather. 



SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE. 
Boil sweet potatoes not quite done; remove; pare; cut 
in half lengthwise; place in baking dish. Sprinkle with 
butter and brown sugar. Bake until slightly brown, serve 
hot. Mrs. R. W. Cranston. 

53 



FRIED APPLES WITH ONIONS. 
1 tbs. butter, 1 tbs. lard, apples, onions, salt and pepper. 
Heat fat. Slice in apples, then onions. Season with salt 
and pepper and fry until the onions are done. 

Mrs. J. G. Palmer. 

RICE BALLS. 
Take 2 cups rice that has boiled stiff or left-over rice, 
drop 1 egg into it, mix well. Then make balls the shape of 
an egg. Drop these balls into hot lard. Cook until brown. 

Mrs. Albert Schaller. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 
Take small egg plant, quarter and take out inside. 
Leave end of stem on shell. Boil in salt water until tender, 
mash, season well with celery, red peppers, salt, butter and 
bread crumbs. Put back in shells and bake. Bread crumbs 
in top. Mrs. Douglas Webster. 

TURNIP CUP WITH PEAS. 

Pare white turnips of medium size. Scoop out hollows 
to form cups and cook in an uncovered kettle until white and 
transparent. Place a small piece of butter in each cup. 
Sprinkle with chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Fill the 
cups with cooked grees peas. Mrs. T. V. Moreau. 

ITALIAN SPAGHETTI. 

Throw \ pkg. of spaghetti in boiling salted water, cook 
until well done, then wash in cold water and arrange in bak- 
ing dish. Then strain 2-3 can tomatoes, 1 large onion cut 
in quarters, \ lb. of grated cheese, salt and pepper to taste. 
Cook twenty minutes and thicken. Pour over spaghetti 
and cover with cracker crumbs, bake 20 minutes in hot 
oven. Harriet C. Dodge. 

54 



SPANISH TOMATOES. 
6 large tomatoes, take out pulp and seeds for stuffing, 
1 lb. lean pork or beef, run through grinder; 1 onion chopped 
fine; § cup rolled toasted bread crumbs; 2 eggs well beaten; 
sage; salt; paprika to taste. Mix well together and stuff 
tomatoes. (Sweet peppers may be used if preferred.) 
Sprinkle on top with crumbs and a small piece of butter. 
Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. Mrs. C. H. Johnson. 



BAKED TOMATOES. 
Take large ripe tomatoes. Scoop out centers; fill with 
chopped celery, well seasoned with pepper and salt, plentiful 
lumps of butter; cover with bread crumbs and bake. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 
Cut thin slices from the stem end of eight ripe tomatoes ; 
take out the pulp and sprinkle with salt and invert for \ 
hour. Cook a few minutes a tsp. of finely chopped onion 
in 2 tbs. of butter; § cup of fresh sausage meat; \ cup of 
soft bread crumbs, and the tomato pulp; season to taste; 
cook and add one egg; heat again and fill tomatoes with 
mixture. Bake in buttered pan 20 minutes. 

Harriet C. Dodge. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

6 large green peppers; remove all seeds; wash carefully. 
Brown in butter; medium sized onion cut fine. Add \ 
lb. boiled ham chopped; \ qt. can of tomatoes; bread crumbs 
sufficient to thicken; salt to taste. Fill peppers, bake in 
tin, covering the bottom with water, half an hour. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

55 



VERMICELLI WITH TOMATOES. 
\ pkg. of vermicelli, boil in salted water 2 minutes, drain 
and rinse in cold water. 1 small can well seasoned tomato 
soup. Add to vermicelli, heat, and serve. 

Mrs. D. F. Swenson. 

EGG PLANT FRITTERS. 

Pare and slice thin, make a batter of 1 egg, a pinch of 
salt, \ cup milk and flour to make quite thick. Dip the 
slices in batter, fry in hot lard. Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon 
over them. Serve. 

SWEET POTATO FRITTERS. 
Pare and cut in halves the requisite number of sweet 
potatoes. Cook until tender in boiling salted water. Drain, 
then pour over the potato a little brandy or wine, a few 
tsp. of lemon juice, and a generous sprinkling of salt. Let 
stand till ready to cook, then dip in fritter batter, and fry 
in deep fat. Serve as any sweet potatoes. 

KRAUT SALAT. 
Mince a head of cabbage on the cutter; set it aside in a 
large agate dish. Into another bowl or dish pour in 1 pt. 
of water and \ pt. of strong vinegar. Make a paste of 3 
heaping tbs. of flour, with enough water to blend it smoothly. 
Stir this into the mixed water and vinegar slowly, until all 
is dissolved and mixed thoroughly; add a lump of butter the 
size of an egg and a little salt. Set the dish over the fire, 
stirring constantly to avoid scorching. Should it thicken 
too much, add a little water. When it boils turn it over the 
chopped cabbage; set it upon the stove and stir and turn 
until the contents of the dish are well scalded. This will 
take from five to ten minutes. Sprinkle with pepper, and 
it is ready for the table. 

56 



BAKED TOMATOES. 
Select tomatoes of a uniform size. Cut off the stem end. 
Lay close in a dish, dot generously with butter, pepper, and 
salt. Cook until tender. Nice with broiled steak or lamb 
chops. Mrs. Quinby. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Take nice firm tomatoes. Slice rather thick. Dip in 

beaten eggs, roll in cracker crumbs. Fry a nice brown in a 

pan, using part butter and part lard. Remove carefully so 

not to break. Serve on platter. Good with fried chicken. 

BAKED ONIONS. 
Peel and cut crosswise nice large white onions, place in a 
dish, put a piece of butter, pepper, and salt on each and a 
few drops of water to prevent burning. Bake until tender. 

ONIONS EN CASSEROLE. 
Prepare as for baking. Put in Casserole with a little 
water. Set on slow fire, cook until tender. 

HOTEL MESMER'S CORN MEAL MUSH. 
Take corn meal mush, cut in squares, dip in egg, then in 
grated cheese. Fry in butter. Nice served with cold meat. 

HOMINY CEREAL. 
Soak over night, put in double boiler. Salt to taste. 
Boil slowly all day. Serve hot with cream and sugar. 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 
1 qt. boiling water, 1 cup corn meal, 1 tsp. salt. Cook 
thirty minutes, then place in mold. 

WAX BEANS AND BACON. 
Cook until tender 1 lb. of wax beans and a J lb. piece of 
bacon cut into small bits. Season with salt to taste. 

Mrs. O. B. Clark 

57 



Salads 

11 My salad days when I was young and green" 

PEAS AND CHEESE SALAD. " 
Take equal amount of cooked green peas (canned will 
do) and cream cheese cut into cubes. Mix with mayonnaise 
dressing. Serve on lettuce leaf. A little chopped pickle 
may be added if liked. - Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

LEROY BOUGHNER SALAD. 

Equal parts of cucumbers, sweet green pepper, celery 
and onions (green). Chop vegetables, put all together and 
let stand 1 hour. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves covered 
with French or mayonnaise dressing. 



PEA SALAD. 
1 can peas, 3 tbs. cheese, 3 tbs. sweet pickles, 3 tbs. 
onions, nuts if desired (blanched), salad dressing. Cook 
and season the peas and cool, cube the cheese and chop the 
pickles and onions before measuring, toss all together with 
a fork, mix with the salad dressing and serve on lettuce very 
cold. Mrs. Lockerby. 



FRUIT SALAD. 
Slice Malaga grapes, cut or shred pineapple, and slice 
bananas into small pieces. Mix lightly and add chopped 
pecans or walnuts and chill. When ready to serve, mix 
with eggnog dressing. Serve immediately on lettuce leaves 
or in orange or grapefruit cases. 

58 



EGGNOG DRESSING. 
Beat 3 yolks of eggs until thick and lemon colored. Add 
gradually \ cup powdered sugar; the beaten white of 1 egg 
and lemon juice to taste. Do not make until just before 
serving and mix with the salad the last minute. 

TOMATO SALAD. 
Select tomatoes of one size and not too large, cut them in 
two cross-wise and scoop out the inside, chop this with 
onion, cucumber, celery and peppers. Let drain and season 
with salt, pepper, a little vinegar and olive oil. Fill the 
tomato shells with this mixture and cover with boiled dress- 
ing that has been mixed with whipped cream. Dust with 
red pepper. Mrs. Geo. S. Davis. 

PEA SALAD. 
1 can peas, 3 tbs. cheese cut in tiny cubes, 3 tbs. small 
pickles chopped, 3 tbs. small onions, 3 tbs. nuts if desired- 
Serve on lettuce leaf with mayonnaise. 

Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

SALAD DRESSING FOR LETTUCE AND VEGETABLE 

SALADS. 
1 cup olive oil, 5 tbs. Tarragon vinegar, 2 heaping tsp. 
salt, 1 medium onion chopped, 1| tbs. chopped parsley, 1 
small can pimentos. Put olive oil, vinegar, and salt in 
mason jar and shake. Put through meat grinder the other 
ingredients and add to oil. Mrs. Scott F. Evans. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Take an equal amount of sliced tomatoes, peeled and 
sliced cucumbers, add a little onion juice. Pour over 
mayonnaise dressing and mix. Serve very cold. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

59 



SCOTCH SALAD. 
1 cup English walnuts, § cup celery, 6 large olives. Cut 
all with a knife, the celery very fine. Make a dressing of: 
1 tbs. butter, 1 tbs. flour, 1 cup hot milk, 1 cup cheese cut 
fine, § tsp. chopped parsley, § tsp. salt, dash of paprica. 
Mix well and cook until cheese is dissolved, then pour over 
mixture; serve on lettuce leaves with resetted radishes. 

HOT POTATO SALAD. 
Boil 12 medium sized potatoes in jackets, pare and' slice 
thin; slice thin 1 large or 2 small onions; slice thin 1 cu- 
cumber; slice thin 3 boiled eggs; mix. Season to taste. 
Fry J lb. bacon cut in small squares, crisp. Mix bacon with 
above. Pour 2-3 cup vinegar into bacon fat; heat and pour 
over above mixture just before serving. 

Mrs. R. W. Cranston. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

1 small head solid, shaved fine, 1 small onion cut fine, 
salt slightly, f cup vinegar, dash of red pepper, 2 tsp. olive 
oil, stir until thick, pour over cabbage, j red or green pepper 
chopped, mix with cabbage. Mrs. Gibson. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

2 yolks of eggs, 1 cup olive oil, 1 tsp. salt, \ tsp. cayenne, 
\ tsp. mustard, \ tsp. sugar, 1 tbs. vinegar, 1 tbs. lemon juice. 
Add the seasonings to the egg yolks and mix well. Add the 
oil, drop by drop, stirring constantly in the same direction 
with a wooden spoon or silver fork. When thick, add lemon 
juice and vinegar, a few drops at a time. If the dressing 
curdles, take another egg yolk and add the curdled dressing 
to it, then the remainder of the oil. Note: Set the bowl on 
ice while making the dressing and chill the eggs and oil 
thoroughly, before using. 

60 



GERMAN POTATO SALAD. 
Put on to boil the day before, small potatoes with the 
jackets on. Do not cook too much. Next day peel and 
slice rather thin. Fry out some fat bacon and to § cup fat 
add 1 large onion sliced. Do not cook brown. Add J cup 
sharp vinegar. Add about 1 qt. of the sliced potatoes, a 
little salt and pepper. Mix gently until the potatoes are 
well covered with fat and look shiny. They should be a 
little sour. If not acid enough add more vinegar. Serve 
hot with frankfurt sausage or redhots. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 



SHRIMP SALAD. 
1 can shrimp, J medium cabbage, 1 onion, 1 small head 
celery, 1 tsp. salt. Remove the shrimp from the can or 
fresh shrimp, and cover with boiling water. Let stand until 
cool, drain and place on ice. Shave the cabbage very fine 
and then with sharp knife cut across until it is very fine. 
Cut the celery very fine, chop the onion. Place on the ice. 
When the shrimp is cold break in small pieces and add to 
the other ingredients. Toss all together with a fork. 



DRESSING. 
6 yolks of eggs, \ cup vinegar, 1 roundkig tsp. dry 
mustard, \ cup sugar, 1 tsp. salt, 1 tsp. extract of celery, dash 
of red pepper. Mix the mustard with the sugar, salt and 
pepper, add the vinegar gradually, when smooth pour over 
the eggs and beat well. Cook with the bowl in a dish of hot 
water stirring constantly until thick. When cold, thin with 
1 cup of cream, add the extract of celery. Mix with the 
shrimp and cabbage, etc., and serve on lettuce. This salad 
will not be a success without the celery extract. 

Mrs. Lockerby. 

61 



GRAPE FRUIT SALAD. 
6 grape fruit, 3 lemons, J cup sugar, 1 box gelatine. 
Put 1 cup of water over gelatine and let stand a few minutes. 
When ready to use set dish in hot water and dissolve the 
gelatine without adding any more water. Scrape the center 
and juice from grape fruit, having grape fruit in very small 
particles, add juice of the lemons and sugar, then put the 
dissolved gelatine into the above and mold with hole in 
center and fill the hole with mayonnaise dressing. Or can 
be served in individual molds with dressing. 

Mrs. Thomas M. Partridge. 

TOMATO AND MUSHROOM SALAD. 
6 large mushrooms, 6 medium tomatoes, 1 tbs. butter, 
J tsp. celery salt. Peel tomatoes and put on ice to chill. 
Peel and break in good sized pieces 6 large mushrooms, saute 
them in butter for 3 minutes adding 2 drops of onion juice 
and J tsp. celery salt, and dash of paprika; chill thoroughly; 
scoop out the inside of tomatoes to which add the mush- 
rooms; mix with mayonnaise and fill the tomato cases, put- 
ting a spoonful of mayonnaise mixed with whipped cream 
on top of each. Serve on lettuce leaf. Mrs. Lockerby. 

SALAD. 

Equal parts of celery, apples and figs. Serve on a lettuce 
leaf with a rich cream dressing. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

FRUIT SALAD. 
A nice salad may be made from crisp lettuce leaves; 
pineapple cut in diamond shape, 1 lb. Cal. green grapes, 2 
bananas sliced, walnuts. Pour over mayonnaise dressing, 
decorate with whipped cream and cherries. 

Mrs. R. W. Cranston. 

62 



FRUIT SALAD. 
3 oranges, 3 bananas, 3 apples, § can pineapple. Squeeze 
juice of 1 lemon and sprinkle sugar over fruit. This serves 
12 people. 

POTATO CUCUMBER SALAD. 
10 boiled potatoes, sliced very thin; 3 small cucumbers; 
3 sticks of celery sliced; 6 cold boiled eggs; 1 small onion, 
grated. Put into a dish a layer of potatoes, cucumbers, 
celery, egg and sprinkle of onion until used. 

Mrs. J. R. Hughes. • 



DRESSING. 
Beat 3 eggs well, 1 tbs. melted butter, 1 tbs. suffar, 1 
tsp. salt, f tsp. mustard, stir until smooth and add 1 cup 
vinegar. Cook in double boiler, stirring until smooth. 
When cold add § cup sweet or sour cream beaten before 
serving, pour over the salad. 



TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 
In a sauce pan put \ can of tomatoes, 1 bay leaf, 4 cloves, 
\ tsp. salt, 10 drops onion juice, simmer 15 minutes, and press 
through a sieve, add \ box of gelatine which has been soaked 
in | cup of cold water and stir until it dissolves. Pour into 
wet molds. Serve on lettuce with salad dressinsr. 



ROQUEFORT CHEESE SALAD. 

Rub a bowl lightly with clove of garlic, line with lettuce 
leaves, fill with sliced tomatoes and cucumbers; grate 
Roquefort cheese and mix with French dressing. Pour over 
all and serve. Mrs. Charles Frink. 

63 



CHICKEN SALAD. 
Boil chicken until tender. Let cook, then remove fat, 
gristle and skin. Cut the meat into dice. Take the same 
quantity of celery as of chicken. Cut celery into small 
pieces. Mix "well and set in a cool place. Any good salad 
dressing. A dash of paprika if desired. Garnish dish with 
lettuce, hard boiled eggs or red beets. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

SALAD DRESSING (especially for fruit salad). 
J cup sugar, 1 cup vinegar, f cup butter, yolks of 8 eggs, 
1 tbs. mustard, 1 tsp. salt, little red pepper. For fruit 
salad mix a little dressing with whipped cream sweetened. 

Mrs. Charles Hedwall. 

DUTCH CHEESE SALAD. 
2 cups of cottage cheese, J can chili peppers, 2 doz. 
green olives, J cup walnut meats chopped, 1 cup thick sour 
cream, 2 tbs. salad dressing. Serve with whipped cream. 
Mix in order given. Chop chilis and olives, add sour cream, 
and serve on lettuce leaves with salad dressing. Add 
whipped cream if desired. Miss Gertie I. Chase. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

| cup sugar, 1 tsp. salt, § tsp. mustard, \ tbs. cornstarch, 
beat 3 eggs in saucepan, add f cup milk, beat, add f cup 
vinegar and J cup water. Beating will keep from curdling. 
Put over fire and add the dry ingredients. 

Mrs. Frank T. Corriston. 

BEET SALAD. 

Cut beets in \ inch cubes, add equal amount of shelled 
pecans, garnish with chopped red cabbage. 

Mrs. R. T. Cole. 

64 



PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

1 can pineapple sliced, 1 pkg. of cream cheese, 
maraschino cherries and lettuce, salad dressing. Place 
slices of pineapple on lettuce leaf. Pour a little salad 
dressing around the edge of the pineapple. Grate a few 
flakes of cheese over all. Place the cherries around the 
pineapple and fill the cavity with whipped cream. 

Miss Gertie I. Chase. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

2 eggs well beaten, 1 tsp. mustard, 2 tsp. sugar, butter 
size of a walnut, § cup vinegar, -J cup water, £ tsp. salt. 
Mix mustard, sugar and salt together. Add the well beaten 
eggs, melted butter, vinegar and water. Place over the 
fire, stir constantly and cook until thick. 

Mrs. Joseph G. Palmer. 

ORANGE AND W ALNUT SALAD. 
4 oranges, 20 English walnuts, lettuce, mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Peel the oranges, stripping off all the white inner skin, 
and put them on ice for several hours. When cold divide 
each lobe into 3 or 4 pieces. Throw the walnut meats into 
boiling water and let them lie there 3 minutes. Drain, re- 
move the skin and break into small pieces. Add to the 
oranges and mix with mayonnaise dressing. Place in head 
lettuce cups with spoonful of whipped cream on top. 

Mrs. Lockerby. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat 2 eggs until light, pour over them 4 tbs. of vinegar 
just brought to the boiling point, and cook over hot water 
until it thickens. Remove from fire and add 2 tbs. of butter 
and set aside to cool. When ready to use, whip 1 cup of 
cream, add to the cooled mixture, stirring well; season to 
taste. Mrs. A. E. Benjamin. 

65 



FRUIT SALAD. 
Small dice of pineapple, white grapes, orange, bits of 
celery, English walnuts, juice of \ lemon, pinch of cayenne 
pepper. Cover with sugar. Let stand a while. Serve. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

2 cans pineapple, 2 lbs. Malaga or Tokay errapes, 2 cans 
white cherries, 1 lb. shelled pecans, half the whole amount of 
celery, cut up fine, few maraschino cherries. 

DRESSING. 
Yolks of 3 esrers, 2 tbs. sugar, 1 tbs. butter, 1 tbs. mustard, 
1 tbs. salt, pinch of paprika, 2-3 cup of vinegar. Boil all 
together; while hot add beaten whites of eggs and when cool 
add 4 tbs. port wine and a pt. of whipped cream. 

Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Place a round of pineapple on a lettuce leaf and fill the 

center with red ba r le due. Dice or cream cheese and arrange 

it around the edge of the pineapple. Serve with sweetened 

boiled dressing to which has been added whipped cream. 

Mrs. A. F. Daggett. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 
| tsp. salt, | tsp. cayenne, 1 tsp. vinegar or lemon juice, 
3 tsp. oil. Pour into a bottle and shake well. 

SALADS OF FRUITS. 

3 bananas, 1 head celery, 1 apple, 1 cup walnuts, 18 
raisins. Arrange on lettuce leaves. Mrs. R. T. Cole. 

66 



STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 
Peel medium-sized tomatoes by first plunging in boiling 
water. Remove a thin slice from stem end of each, and re- 
move seeds and some of the pulp, sprinkle the inside with 
salt, invert, and let stand § hour. Fill tomatoes with equal 
portions of celery and walnuts, cut in pieces and mix with 
mayonnaise dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish 
with dressing or with a shrimp, or with a pimola. The 
tomatoes may be stuffed with chicken and celery and olives 
or with cucumbers instead of celery and nuts. (Boiled 
dressing may be used instead of mayonnaise). 

RAISIN AND CELERY SALAD. 
2 cups celery, 2 oranges chopped into bits and 1 cup of 
seeded raisins washed and halved. Add \ cup grated apple 
to 1 cup mayonnaise and mix celery and raisins. Grate 
some orange rind and sprinkle over all also a little bit of 
lemon juice. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

Slice nice oranges after removing skin. Place on lettuce 
leaf, serve with French dressing. Mrs. Albert Schatler. 

WATERCRESS AND TOMATO SALAD. 
Wash cress carefully and place on plate. Slice yellow 
tomatoes and arrange on the cress. Serve with French 
dressing. Mrs. Ulm. 

BOHNEN SALAD. 
1 lb. crisp wax beans. Cut the beans slantingly into \ 
inch pieces and boil until tender. Pour off water, slice in 
some onion, add enough thick sweet cream to mix well. 
Then add 1 tbs. vinegar, salt and white pepper to taste. 
Before adding the cream allow the steam to escape from the 
beans. Serve warm. Very fine. Mrs. Hedwall. 

67 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
1 tsp. mustard, \ tsp. salt, pinch cayenne, yolks of 2 
eggs, 1 cooked and 1 raw, 1 cup of olive oil, 3 tbs. of vinegar 
or lemon juice. Mix mustard, salt and cayenne until well 
blended. Add yolks, then oil a few drops at a time, beating 
constantly. When it begins to thicken add a little of the 
vinegar or lemon juice. Then alternately remainder of oil 
and vinegar. It should be thick dressing. If it curdles 
take yolk of another egg, beat all into it a drop at a time. 
Have mixing bowl cold. Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

COMBINATION SALAD. 

Cold boiled sliced beets, asparagus tips, and string beans. 
Arrange on lettuce leaf. Serve with French dressing. 

ASPARAGUS TIPS SALAD. 

Arrange tips like a log cabin on lettuce leaf. Use French 
dressing, pepper well with paprika. Mrs. W. B. Joyce. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 
1 tbs. olive oil, 1 tbs. half vinegar and half lemon juice, 
1 tsp. salt, a pinch sugar if desired. Paprika seasoning to 
taste. 

GREEN PEPPER SALAD. 

Take sweet green peppers cut off tops and take out seeds. 
Fill with cream cheese (packed tight) then slice thin and place 
on lettuce leaf. Pour mayonnaise dressing over and place 
candied cherry on each. Mrs. W. B. Webster. 

WHITE HOUSE SALAD. 
Equal parts of the white meat of the fowl with hard- 
boiled eggs cut into dice and celery prepared in the same 
way, with a sprinkling of white nuts, like the filbert and 
pecan and the butternut of Brazil, and all are covered with 
mayonnaise. 

68 



SALAD. 
Equal parts of white cabbage and celery chopped, 2 
hard boiled eggs sliced. Cover with any salad dressing, rich 
with cream. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

ORIGINAL NEBRASKA SALAD. 

1 large, crisp cucumber, green and fresh; 3 or 4 small 
white stalks of celery; 6 firm, smooth, ripe tomatoes, 1 small 
firm cabbage, celery seed, parsley, blanched almonds. Peel, 
seed and chop the cucumber fine. Put it and the minced 
celery in an earthenware dish and sprinkle with a scant 
tsp. of salt. Scald and peel tomatoes. Put all three in- 
gredients upon the ice to chill. When ready to serve, cut 
the tomatoes into halves, remove seeds and pulp, leaving the 
firm flesh. Line a glass dish with the halved tomatoes, 
squeeze all the liquid from celery and cucumbers and mix 
with them | tsp. each of white pepper and celery seed. Stuff 
the tomato cells with the mixture of cucumber and celery, 
leaving a small space in the center. Pour a spoonful of 
salad dressing upon each tomato and set the dish in ice while 
you chop the cabbage; mince a few sprigs of parsley and 
chop fine J cup of blanched almonds. Put all into a dish; 
toss up the remainder of the dressing and heap in the center 
of the dish with the tomatoes. 

PRUNE SALAD. 

Stew large prunes until tender, carefully remove stones, 
fill cavity with walnut meats. Lay several on lettuce leaf 
and serve with salad dressing. Mrs. Ellen Libby. 



69 



Cheese Dishes 



"As soon as the tarts and cheese cakes made their appearance, 
He quitted his seat and stood aloof" 

CHEESE CONES. 
Take 2 cups of hot mashed potato, add 1 of grated cheese, 
season with salt and paprika. Mold in small cups, turn out 
on a buttered tin, sprinkle with grated bread crumbs and on 
top of each cone place a bit of butter. Brown in the oven 
and serve very hot. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

Take \ cup of grated cheese, add the same quantity of 
bread crumbs, season with salt and white pepper, and bind 
together with the beaten whites of two eggs. Form into 
small croquettes, dredge with bread crumbs and fry in deep 
hot fat. Drain and serve at once with a garnish of parsley 
and sliced lemon. 



WELSH RABBIT. 

Take 1| lb. of soft American cheese and cut or chop it 
into dice. Put into chafing dish 1 tbs. of butter and about 
2 tbs. of beer or ale, if milk is preferred use that instead of 
beer, add 1 tbs. Worcestershire sauce, 1 tsp. of dry mustard, 
J stsp. of cayenne (or 1 tsp. of paprika) and blend thoroughly. 
Add cheese, constantly stirring and if necessary to produce 
an even, smooth, liquid consistency, add more beer or milk. 
When the mixture is creamy, pour over toast or crackers and 
serve. Have toast prepared beforehand and keep hot. 

70 



CHEESE BALLS. 

Whip white of 1 egg very stiff, add a pinch of salt and dry 
mustard and red pepper, and sufficient grated cheese to 
make into little balls. Fry in deep lard and serve hot with 
any salad. Mrs. Frank T. Corriston. 

NEUFCHATEL CHEESE. 
| lb. cream cheese; piece of butter size of cheese; 1 
tbs. of chopped parsley; scant \ cup chopped nuts. Grate 
cheese and cream with the butter. Mould and turn out. 
Put \ the walnut meats on top. Mrs. C. H. Frink. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 
3 tbs. butter; 3 tbs. flour; f cup milk; 3 eggs; \ tsp. 
salt; \ tsp. pepper; 1 cup grated cheese. Put the butter 
into a saucepan and when hot add the flour and stir until 
smooth; acfd the milk and seasoning. Cook 2 minutes. 
Remove to the back of the stove and add the well beaten 
yolks and the cheese. Set away to cool. When cold add 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a 
buttered pan and bake from 20 to 25 minutes. Serve 
immediately. Mrs. Harry Lackore. 

DUTCH CHEESE. 

Set a pan of sour milk in the oven, leave the door open. 
Cut across with a knife (in bars) let set until it separates. 
Drain in colander till dry, placing cheese cloth on colander 
before pouring in milk. Mix with pepper, salt, chives 
and sweet cream. Mrs. J. B. Lambert. 



71 



Sandwiches 

"They that have no meat 
Bread and butter are glad to eat" 

SANDWICH FILLING. 
Ten cent can of MacLaren's cheese; 2 tbs. mayon- 
naise dressing; a dash of tabasco sauce; 1 small stalk 
of celery; 1 large green sweet pepper; 2 dozen pecan nuts, 
chopped. Chop the peppers and celery fine and press out 
the juice well. Add to the other ingredients. Mix. Spread 
between crackers or sandwich bread. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES. 
Chop stuffed olives fine and mix with salad dressing. 
Spread over thin slices of bread and butter. Queen olives 
cut from the stones may be served in the same way. 

Mrs. William Gawne. 

CHEESE AND GINGER SANDWICH. 

Chop preserved stem ginger very fine, add syrup from 
jar or unsweetened cream, mix ginger and liquid into equal 
bulk of cream cheese. Spread this on buttered bread. 
Very good with tea. Mrs. W. M. Strange. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Use bread 1 day old. Make sandwiches by buttering 
1 side of the bread and putting in a very thin slice of cream 
cheese. A thin layer of orange marmalade may be used 
instead of the cheese. Put the sandwiches on a cooky tin. 
Slide into a very hot oven and bake until a delicate brown. 
Serve at once. Mrs. Chas. H. Burwell. 

72 



LILLIAN RUSSELL'S SANDWICH. 
Take of cold boiled chicken and cold boiled tongue, 1 
cup each, the meat of a dozen olives and six hard boiled 
eggs. Mix all these ingredients together and chop them as 
fine as possible. When they have attained almost the 
consistency of a powder they must be worked into a paste 
by the addition of a mayonnaise dressing, after which the 
mixture is ready to be spread upon thinly sliced buttered 
bread. 

MARMALADE SANDWICH. 

Orange marmalade, pecan nuts and cream cheese mixed 
thoroughly and spread between thin slices of white bread 
slightly buttered. 

OLIVE SANDWICH. 
Make baking powder biscuit the size of half a dollar, 
and when cold split them and spread them with a mayon- 
naise mixed with minced celery and stuffed olives. 

DUTCH LUNCH SANDWICH. 

Cut very thin slices from the center of medium sized 
white onions and throw them into ice water for an hour. 
Dry, dip in French dressing and lay them on thin circles 
of black bread, covering them each with a thin layer of 
shredded smoked sturgeon or whitefish, dusted lightly with 
paprika. 

CLUB SANDWICH. 
If you want a really delicious club sandwich use tongue 
instead of ham. You may use ham, or rather crisp little 
strips of breakfast bacon, also introduce a little hard boiled 
egg crumbled fine, and some minced olives. 

73 



SANDWICH FILLINGS. 
First — Blanch } of a lb. of almonds, add the same weight 
each of English walnuts and seeded raisins, and put through 
the food chopper. Moisten with grape juice till the mixture 
is soft enough to spread easily. 

Second — Chop celery very fine, add an equal amount of 
cream cheese, and sufficient sweet cream to moisten to a 
paste. 

Third — Boil 6 eggs for an hour, shell them and put 
through the food chopper. Make a thick sauce with 1 tbs. 
of butter; J tsp. of currypowder; J of a cup of milk; 
a pinch of salt ; half the egg paste with more salt and cayenne 
to season well. 

Fourth — Stone and steam a \ cup of dates and the same 
quantity of seeded raisins. When soft beat together to a 
paste. 

Fifth — Stone and pound to a paste 2 dozen large olives. 
Mix with a scant \ cup of thick mayonnaise. Pimolas may 
be used in the same way. 

Sixth — Blend together equal quantities of pounded 
English walnuts and neufchatel cheese, moistening with 
thick mayonnaise. 

Seventh — Put 1 cup of drained baked beans through 
the food chopper, add 1 tsp. of chopped parsley, a few drops 
of celery extract, 1 tsp. of onion juice and a very little made 
mustard. 

Eighth — From some roast lamb trim off all fat and put 
through the food chopper, then pound to a paste. Season 
with salt, a little curry powder and moisten with sweet 
cream. 

74 



PEPPER SANDWICHES. 

Remove seeds from 4 or 5 sweet green peppers, chop fine 
and simmer in 2 tbs. of butter 8 or 10 minutes without 
allowing to brown. Add salt to taste. When cold place 
between thin slices of bread slightly buttered and cover the 
layer of pepper with grated cream cheese and serve. 

Often when a large bottle of olives is opened and only 
partly used, the remainder, though left in the brine, becomes 
comparatively tasteless. If half an inch of olive oil is poured 
on the top and the bottle well corked, the olives will retain 
their flavor indefinitely. 

An olive placed in each cup before pouring in the bouillon 
gives the liquid an added and pleasing flavor. 

PIMENTO SANDWICHES. 

One small can of pimentoes shredded; \ small sweet 
white onion minced. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 
Spread between slices of buttered bread. 

Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

TID-BIT. 

Equal parts of. chicken, beef, and ham minced fine and 
highly spiced to taste. Mix with beef jelly. 



75 



Bread and Rolls 

"Bread is the staff of life." 
MOTHER'S BREAD. 
Dissolve 1 cake of yeast foam in a pt. of lukewarm 
water. Add sufficient flour to make a thin batter. Beat 
hard for 5 minutes. Cover and set in a warm place to 
raise. In summer about 2 hours, in winter a little longer. 
Sift 1J qts. of flour into a bread pan. Scald 1 qt. of milk. 
When cooled to luke warm, add a tsp. of salt and pour 
over the flour. Add the sponge batter and beat with a 
heavy cake spoon for about 10 minutes. If necessary, 
add more flour to make a stiff dough. Put on a floured 
bread board and knead until the dough is elastic and glis- 
tening. Put the dough in a pan, cover and set in a warm 
place to rise over night. No flour should be added after 
the kneading. Early in the morning, grease the hands 
with butter and gently knead down. Raise; before very 
light, cut into 1 lb. pieces, shape into loaves and put in 
single tins. Raise again until loaves are almost double in 
size. Put in a moderate oven and bake from f to 1 hour. 
The success of good bread making depends, upon keeping 
the temperature of the dough moderate. If it is allowed 
to become too hot or too cold, the bread is spoiled. The 
flour should be sifted thoroughly to allow the air to mix 
through the flour. Always sift before measuring. 

Mrs. Chrles H. Burwell. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 
3 cups graham flour; 2 cups sweet milk; J cup molasses; 
1 rounding tsp. soda; pinch of salt. Bake 45 to 50 
minutes. Makes one loaf. Gladj^s A. Campbell. 

7G 



SALT RISING BREAD. 
1 pt. hike warm water; tsp. salt; \ tsp. soda. Make 
stiff batter in earthen bowl, set to rise in kettle of warm 
water, keep at same temperature. When light add pt. 
of lukewarm water and flour to make soft sponge. Let 
rise again, add flour, knead well, put in loaves. Great 
care must be taken that bread be kept at even heat. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

PRIZE BREAD. 

Bread made from this receipt took three prizes at a 
fair. SI. 00 from fair association, 1 barrel of flour from 1 
mill and $10.00 in money from another mill. 

1 qt. water; 1 qt. milk; 1 tbs. of lard; 1 tbs. sugar; 
| cup home made yeast was used, any good yeast will do, 
(1 cake,) tbs. salt (scant). Mix all ingredients together, 
mould down hard the night before, wrap pan up in blanket 
and put in warm place. In morning knead again, when it 
rises next time, mould into loaves. Let it rise again in 
pans. When raised enough wet top of bread which keeps 
crust soft. It takes from 40 minutes to an hour to bake in 
slow oven, depends somewhat on size of loaf. Use potato 
water if desired instead of plain water. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

YEAST. 
A double handful of hops in a thin bag, 1 qt. of boiling 
water, 1 qt. of potatoes cut into small pieces, boil potatoes 
with hops until done, cover tight all the time. Mash 
potatoes then pour boiling hop water over them. Add 2 
tbs. sugar, 2 of ginger, 1 of salt, and let it stand until just 
warm. Add 1 cup of yeast or 1 yeast cake, put in a jug and 
set in cool place. This yeast will keep 2 months in winter 
and 2 weeks in summer in a cool place. 

Mrs. J. F. Willis. 



RAISED BISCUIT. 
1 pt. milk; 1 pt. flour; 1 yeast cake dissolved in \ cup 
lukewarm water; let stand \ hour, then add 1 pt. flour; 1 
tbs. lard; 2 tbs. sugar; 1 tsp. salt. Mix altogether 20 
minutes, then let rise until light, when light make into little 
rolls, put into pans, let rise again, bake 20 minutes in hot 
oven. In hot weather mix the dough in the morning and at 
6 o'clock they are ready to bake. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

BROWN BREAD. 
1 egg; \\ cups sour milk; 1 tsp. soda; \ cup molasses; 
i cup cornmeal; 1J cups graham flour; \ cup white flour. 
Salt. Bake 1 hour. Mrs. W. B. MacLean. 

BROWN BREAD. 

1 well beaten egg; 1 cup molasses, \ cup sugar; \\ cup 
sour milk or butter milk; 2 even tsp. of soda dissolved 
in a little hot water; J tsp. salt. Graham flour to make 
like soft ginger bread. Bake in slow oven about 1 hour. 

Mrs. William C. Willets. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

1 cup flour (white); 3 cups graham flour; 2 cups sour 
milk; 1 tsp. baking powder; \ tsp. soda; scant \ cup sugar; 
a little salt. Mix. Bake in a loaf. Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

2 cups flour; 2 heaping tsp. baking powder; 2 tbs. sugar; 
1 tbs. melted lard; little salt; enough milk to make a soft 
dough. Roll thin and cover with melted butter, cinnamon, 
raisins and thin pieces of citron. Roll and cut in 1 inch 
pieces, bake quickly and serve at once. A. L. McLean, 

78 



MARIE ROLLS. 
1 qt. warm milk; 1 cup sugar; f cup butter; 1 tbs. salt; 
1 cake compressed yeast. Flour to make stiff batter. Do 
not knead — stir stiff with spoon Add 2 eggs beaten lightly, 
last thing. Set to rise. When light roll out — form as Parker 
House rolls or any desired shape . Mrs . D . P . Ensign . 

BISCUIT. 
Warm a pan with hot water, for biscuit take about pt. of 
sponge. Break in an egg, add 1 tbs. of sugar, and 1 tbs. of 
melted butter. Beat with fork until well mixed. Add 
enough flour to put down in a medium hard sponge. Allow 
this to rise and when light roll out to \ inch thickness. Cut 
with biscuit cutter. Brush each biscuit with melted butter 
and sprinkle a little sugar on top. Fold each in half and 
let rise in pans until light. Bake in medium oven. 

Mrs. Chas. Sandborn. 



ROLLS, 
f cake compressed yeast; 2| cups milk; little salt; flour 
to make like bread sponge; 2 heaping tbs. sugar; raise 4 
hours. Then add \ cup butter; 2 eggs. Mix a little stiffer 
than cookies. Roll out and cut with cooky cutter Butter 
and fold over. Let rise 2 or 3 hours and bake. 

Mrs. Powell. 



NUT BREAD. 
4 cups flour; 4 heaping tsp. of baking powder; 1 tsp. 
salt; | cup sugar. Sift all together then add 2 cups sweet 
milk; 1 egg beaten into the milk; 2 cups walnuts (broken). 
Raise 20 minutes, bake \ hour. This makes 2 loav r es. 

Mrs H. D Bliss. 

79 



NUT BREAD. 
1 pt. flour; 2 heaping tsp. baking powder; \ cup sugar; 
1 cup chopped walnuts ; § tsp. salt. Mix and add enough 
sweet milk to make a very stiff batter. Put in a bread tin, 
let stand in a warm place 20 minutes and bake 30 to 45 
minutes in a moderate oven. Mrs. Eddy Capps. 

NUT BROWN BREAD. 
f cup graham flour; | cup white flour; \ cup molasses; 
\ cup or more nuts; § cups sweet milk; 1 tsp. baking pow- 
der. Mix and put at once into pans. Let stand for 20 
minutes or so, then bake. Very nice for thin sandwiches. 

Mrs. Milton O. Nelson. 

MUFFINS. 
3 tbs. butter; 3 tbs. sugar; 1 egg; 1 cup milk; 2 cups 
flour; 2 tbs. baking powder. Mary L. Norton. 

GERMAN TEA BISCUIT. 

1 qt. flour, sifted with two § tsp. baking powder and a 
little salt. Rub in § cup butter. 2 eggs beaten separately, 
enough milk to make a dough to roll. Roll thin, cut in 
small rounds, put jam, jelly or marmalade on, wet edges and 
fold over, or take two rounds place jam on one, wet edges and 
pinch together. Bake in hot oven. Mrs. W. D. Shelden. 

SOUTHERN BISCUITS. 
1 tbs. butter; 2 tbs. sugar; 2 teacups warm milk; 1 
yeast, compressed; 1 tsp. salt; 2 eggs; 4 large cups flour. 
Mix at 10 in the morning, let rise until 3, then pour on 
board and pat until \ inch thick. Cut with biscuit cutter, 
spread on melted butter, putting 2 together, spread on top 
with butter, let rise until 6 and bake 15 minutes. 

Mrs. M. A. Green. 

80 



BLUEBERRY MUFFINS. 

Butter size of an egg; § cup sugar creamed; 1 cup sweet 
milk; 2 eggs well beaten; 3 scant cups flour; 2 tsp. baking 
powder in flour; 2 cups fresh blueberries, dredged in some of 
the flour. Mrs. Ernest Z. Wanous. 

POPOVERS. 
2 eggs; 2 cups flour; 2 cups milk. Beat all together 
with egg beater until batter is light and frothy. Fill muffin 
tins | full and bake 20 minutes, increasing the heat after 
they rise. Gladys A. Campbell. 

GRAHAM, RYE OR WHEAT GEMS. 
1J cups graham, rye or whole wheat; \ cup white flour; 
1-8 cup sugar; 1 cup milk; \ tsp. salt; 2 tsp. baking powder; 
1 egg; 1 large tbs. shortening. Beat quickly and bake in 
hot gem pans. Bacon drippings add a delicate flavor to the 
graham gems. C. M. H. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS. 
2 tbs. butter; 4 tbs. sugar; 1 egg, beaten together until 
very light; 1 tsp. salt; 1 cup sweet milk; 2 cups flour; 3 
heaping tsp. baking powder; 2-3 cup blueberries. 

Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 

FRUIT GEMS. 

1 teacupful of milk; 1 cup of wheat flour; a pinch of salt; 
1 beaten egg; add chopped raisins, figs, dates, together or 
separate, roll the fruit in dry flour. Suit your taste as to 
amount of fruit. If a little sweet cream is used in mixing 
the dough, the cakes will be nice enough for dessert or a 
lunch for traveling. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

81 



SOUTHERN SOFT CORN BREAD. 
1 egg beaten light; 1 qt. milk; 1 cup yellow cornmeal; 
\ tsp. salt; 2 tsp. baking powder. Mix together, pour 
into baking pan, put bits of butter over the top about 2 
tbs. in all. Bake 25 minutes; as it bakes stir it about every 
5 minutes; serve in the same dish accompanied by jelly. 
Must be served with a spoon. 



GOOD JOHNNYCAKE. 
1 cup cornmeal; 1 cup flour; 1 cup sour milk; 1 level 
tsp. soda; 1 tbs. of sugar; 1 tbs. melted butter or lard; 
1 egg; a pinch of salt. Beat sugar and egg then add milk 
and flour and melted butter last. 

Mrs. William Moorhead. 



PRUNE ROLLS. 

Soak J lb. of prunes overnight. Stew until very tender 
and run through colander to remove stones and skins. 
If not sweet enough add a little sugar. Use any good recipe 
for rolls. Roll out thin, cut with biscuit cutter. Dip each 
round in melted butter (half lard will do) and on top of each 
biscuit put 1 large tsp. of prunes. Let rise very light before 
baking. Chopped almonds sprinkled over top make a nice 
addition. Mrs. J. C. Moodey. 

PENNY MUFFINS. 

Soak 1 cake yeast foam in \ cup warm water until soft, 
2 cups hot water; 2 tbs. lard; 2 eggs beaten; J cup sugar; 
1 tbs. salt. As much flour as can be stirred in, let it set in 
a warm place 18 hours, then make into biscuits and let rise 2 
hours, bake in gem pans in a very hot oven. 

Opal S. Fay. 

82 



CRANBERRY MUFFINS. 

Cream ^ cup butter, gradually beat £ cup sugar into this. 
Add 1 egg beaten separately very light, add f cup milk; 2 
cups sifted flour and sifted again with 2 rounded tsp. baking 
powder and J tsp. salt. When well mixed, beat in 1 cup 
cranberries, cut in halves. Bake 25 minutes in well buttered 
muffin pans. Ellen Brooks. 

BLUEBERRY CAKE. 

1 pt. blueberries; 1 cup sugar, \ cup butter; 3§ cups 
flour; 2 eggs; \ tsp soda; 1 tsp. cream tartar, or 2 tsp. 
baking powder. Harriet C. Dodge. 

CORN BREAD (Fine). 

2 eggs; \ cup sugar; 2 tbs. butter; 1 cup sweet milk; 
3 tsp. baking powder; 1J cups flour; f cup cornmeal; a 
little salt. Should not be much thicker than sponge cake. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 
1 cup graham flour; 1 cup wheat flour; 1 cup sweet 
milk; \ cup sugar (scant); 1 egg; 3 tsp. baking powder. 
Bake in well buttered tins and moderately hot oven. Use 
same recipe with 2 cups wheat flour or 1 cup corn meal and 
1 of wheat flour. Mrs. N. S. Davis. 

OAT MEAL WAFERS. 
\\ cups oat meal; \ cup prepared cocoanut; 1 level tsp. 
salt; 1 level tsp. baking powder; 1 cup sugar; 2 eggs well 
beaten, then add 1 tbs. melted butter. Drop \ tsp. on 
buttered tins about 4 inches apart. Leave 1 minute on tin 
after taking from oven. Do not allow to cool or they will 
break. Mrs. Longsdorf. 

83 



WAFFLES— EXCELLENT. 
Beat 1 egg light, add 1 pt. milk; 1 pt. flour; 2 rounding 
tsp. baking powder; 1 tbs. melted butter, f tsp. salt. 

H. G. H. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 

2 cups flour; 4 tsp. rounded of baking powder; | tsp. 
salt; f cup milk; 2 tsp. butter. Sift the flour, baking 
powder and salt together. Mix it and the butter with the 
hands. Then add the milk, stirring a little in at a time. 

Mrs. Chas. H. Burwell. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS— BREAD STICKS. 
1 pt. hot milk; 2 tbs. butter; 2 tbs. sugar; 1 tsp. salt; 
i yeast cake if mixed at night; or, ■§ yeast cake if mixed 
in the morning; flour. Pour the hot milk on the butter, 
salt and sugar, and when the milk is lukewarm, add the 
yeast cake which has been softened in lukewarm water. 
Add 3 cups of flour to make a sponge ; beat and put to rise. 
When light and spongy, add flour to make a stiff dough and 
knead until smooth and elastic to the touch. Let rise until 
double its former bulk. Knead again, if necessary, and 
roll the dough J inch thick. Lift from the board and let it 
shrink before cutting, so that the rolls may be of uniform 
shape. Cut with a round or oval cutter, place a bit of 
butter near the edge of the dough, then fold over so that 
the edges are even. Press the roll to prevent its separating 
as it rises. Place the rolls on a sheet to rise and when light, 
bake in a hot oven. Use part of the dough for bread sticks. 
Roll a small piece of dough into a ball, then into a stick, 
which should be a foot long and about the diameter of the 
little finger. Bake in a moderate oven until brown. 

84 



PIN WHEEL BISCUIT. 
2 cups flour; 2 tbs. sugar; 4 tsp. baking powder; \ 
tsp. salt; 2 tbs. butter; 2-3 cup milk. Roll out thin, spread 
lightly with butter, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon; 
\ cup raisins; 2 tbs. finely chopped citron. Roll out and 
cut 1 inch thick. Lay flat on pan, bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. Ella Clark. 

ENTIRE WHEAT GEMS. 

8 tbs. of entire wheat flour; 2 tsp. baking powder; 

1 tbs. sugar; pinch of salt; 2 tbs. melted butter. Add 
enough milk to make batter stiff enough to drop from spoon. 
This makes 8 gems. Florence McDonough. 

CHEESE STICKS. 

1 cup grated cheese; \ tsp. salt; 2-3 cup flour; 2 tbs. of 
milk, 1 cup of fine breadcrumbs; 1 tbs. of butter. Cream 
butter and flour, crumbs and cheese. Mix thoroughly and 
add milk. Roll \ inch thick, cut | inch wide; 5 inches 
long, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Frank T. Corriston. 

STEAMED GRAHAM BREAD. 

2 cups sweet milk; 2 cups graham flour; 1 cup white 
flour; f cup sugar and molasses, (mix 1 tsp. small) soda, 

2 tsp. baking powder. Steam If hours. Bake 15 minutes. 

NUT BREAD. 
Scald 1 cup rolled oats with 2 cups boiling water; 1 
tbs. lard. When cool add \ cup sugar, 1 qt. flour, 1 tsp. 
salt, \ cake compressed yeast dissolved in 1-3 cup warm 
water. Let rise over night. In morning add 1 cup flour 
and J cup chopped nuts. Beat well, put into two loaf pans, 
let rise for at least an hour. Then bake. 

Mrs. G. C. Barry. 

85 



CHEESE STRAWS. 
1 cup flour; 1 tsp. salt; f cup grated cheese; a few 
grains cayenne; 2 tbs. butter; J tsp. baking powder. Milk 
enough to make a soft dough. Sift flour, pepper, baking 
powder together, put in butter, then grated cheese. Add 
milk slowly, using enough to make a soft dough. Toss on 
a lightly floured board, roll out light, cut in strips the length 
of a pencil, also make some small rings. Bake in a hot oven 
until light brown. Put the sticks through one or two rings. 

Mrs. Quinby. 



KUGELHUPF. 

1 compressed yeast cake dissolved in cup of lukewarm 
milk and enough warmed flour to make a thick batter. 
Set to rise. When light add 1 cup of warm milk; J cup 
sugar; J cup melted butter and flour to make about con- 
sistency of cake. Beat in 3 eggs 1 at a time. Add a little 
salt. Let rise. Pour the dough into a cake pan with tube 
in center, filling about \ full. When risen nearly full bake 
in medium hot oven. Raisins (1| cups) and blanched 
almonds may be added. Mrs. J. B. Lambert. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 

2 cups flour; 2 cups sweet milk (scant); \ tsp. salt; 2 
tsp. melted butter; 2 tsp. baking powder; 1 egg may be 
used but is not necessary. 

Graham or cornmeal cakes may be made by the same 
rule using \ or \ of the meal for variety. Sour milk may 
be substituted, 1 level tsp. soda to the cup. 

86 



SIMS MALTED WHEAT HAS NO EQUAL. 

SIMS MALTED WHEAT BREAKFAST FOOD. 

3 cups boiling water, 2 cups boiling milk, 1 cup of Sims 
Malted Wheat and \ tsp. salt. Stir in slowly. Boil from 
20 to 30 minutes, preferably in a double boiler. Boiling 
a little longer adds to the delicacy of the flavor. 5 minutes 
before serving add 2-3 cup chopped figs. 



SIMS MALTED WHEAT MUFFINS. 
Cream \ cup butter, gradually beat \ cup sugar into this. 
Add 1 egg beaten separately very light, add f cup milk, 2 
cups Sims Malted Wheat (sifted), Sift after measuring, with 
two rounded tsp. baking powder and \ tsp. salt. Bake 20 
minutes in well buttered muffin pans. Add eggs the very 
last. 



SIMS MALTED WHEAT INDIAN BREAD 

2 eggs; \ cup sugar; 2 tsp. butter; 1 cup sweet milk; 
3 tsp. baking powder; 1J cups flour; f cup Sims Malted 
Wheat; a little salt. Should not be thicker than sponge 
cake. 



SIMS MALTED WHEAT TORTE. 
Beat yolks of 5 eggs, add 1 cup sugar, 1 cup walnuts 
chopped very fine, \ cup Sims Malted Wheat, \ cup of rolled 
toast crumbs; grated rind of one lemon, tsp. baking powder, 
whites of 5 eggs. Bake in 3 layers, put jam between and 
sweetened whipped cream on top. 

87 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 
1 cup buckwheat; J cup cornmeal; \ cup flour; \ 
tsp. salt; J yeast cake, 2 cups boiling water. Scald the 
meal with the water, add salt, beat well, when cool add 
flour and buckwheat, add yeast cake (dissolved). Let 
stand over night, in morning pour off discolored water and 
add \ cup milk in which \ tsp. soda has been dissolved. 
Beat well, let rise a little while. 1 tbs. molasses added if 
liked. 



HEFEN-KRANZ. 

\ pt. milk, \ cup sugar; 3 oz. butter; | lb. raisins (seeded) 
i lb. citron (cut small); 3 eggs; \ lb. almonds (blanched, 
chopped); flour. A little more sugar, melted butter, cin- 
namon, white of an egg. 

Make a sponge of 1 yeast cake, \ cup each of milk and 
water and a little flour. Let rise 10 or 15 minutes; when 
light add the \ pt. milk, sugar, butter, eggs and flour enough 
to make a soft dough. Beat in a warm place with a wooden 
spoon f of an hour. Let rise over nigh't. Next morning 
(early) roll thin and spread with melted butter, roll up, 
repeat 3 times, after the 3rd time sprinkle on a little sugar 
and cinnamon then the raisins, citron and most of the al- 
monds. Roll into a wreath and spread top with the white 
of an egg well beaten, and rest of almonds (chopped or in 
halves) . Let rise and bake about 1 hour. Should be eaten 
while fresh. Bake in a pan 12 inches in diameter, 3| inches 
deep, with a tube 4 inches in diameter. Can be commenced 
in the mornkig and baked by 2:30. Mrs. H. A. Tuttle. 



88 



KUCHEN. 
Put into 1 scant pt. of sifted flour a pinch of salt, tsp. 
of baking powder and sift. Add 2 tbs. of sugar. Rub 
in a piece of butter size of an egg. Break an egg into a 
cup and fill not quite full of milk. Mix with the flour to 
make a soft dough. Roll out, put in tin, place sliced apples 
on the top sprinkling a little sugar, cinnamon and sweet 
cream. Bake in a moderate oven until apples are done. 
Sliced peaches or prunes may be used. Prepare the prunes 
thus: Soak over night 1 lb. of prunes. Stew until tender. 
Stone them and boil down the juice, adding a little sugar. 
Place the prunes very carefully in rows upon the kuchen; 
squeeze on the juice of \ a lemon and add a little of the 
sweetened prune juice. Bake until the crust is done. May 
be served hot as dessert. Mrs. Quinby. 



DAINTY ROLLS. 
1 cake compressed yeast; 2| half cups milk; level tsp. 
salt; 2 heaping tbs. sugar. Flour to make like bread 
sponge. Raise until light, then add \ cup butter or lard and 
2 eggs. Mix a little stiffer than cookies. Let stand until 
light. Roll out, spread with melted butter, cut with cooky 
cutter and fold over like Parker House rolls. Raise and 
when light bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 



Cake. 

"Beware of the warning 
Lest your cake be dough." 

GENERAL RULES FOR CAKE MAKING. 

In selecting the material be sure to get the winter wheat 
flour, known to the trade as pastry flour, for while spring 
wheat flour is the best for bread, it is impossible to have per- 
fect success, especially with the more delicate cakes, when 
this is used. For Angel, Sunshine and all Sponge Cakes 
sift flour three or four times before measuring in order to 
lighten it. When baking powder is used sift flour once, then 
measure, add baking powder and sift until thoroughly 
mixed. When cream of tartar and soda is used instead of 
baking powder, add the cream of tartar to the egg when half 
beaten and the soda to the flour, in the same way as baking 
powder is used. Always add the cream of tartar to the 
whites of eggs when making cake containing both whites 
and yolks, but beaten separate. When substituting cream of 
tartar and soda for baking powder, use in the proportion of 
1 tsp. of cream of tartar and a scant half tsp. of soda to 2 
tsp. of baking powder which is the required amount for any 
cake of ordinary size. 

Granulated sugar is the best although some have failed 
by using it since it is heavier than the soft sugars, it re- 
quires 1-5 less to give the same result. Sugar should be 
sifted once to take out any lumps of foreign matter. 

Eggs should be fresh and cold. It is immaterial as to 
the kind of beater used in beating the yolks, only that 
they are beaten thoroughly to a quick froth. Very few 
take the time to beat them as they should be and conse- 
quently the cake is heavy and has the strong taste of the 

90 



SWANS DOWN 


PREPARED 


NOT SELF-RISING 


CAKE FLOUR 





Makes 

Lightest, 

Whitest* 

Finest 

Cakes 

CLThe recipes for cakes on the following 
pages will be at their best when SWANS 
DOWN CAKE FLOUR is used. 

CLYou wouldn'tuse calico for your fine dresses. 
Then why use common flour for your cakes? 

d SWANS DOWN CAKE FLOUR is milled 
specially to use in fine cakes. A quarter's worth 
makes six to eight dollars' worth of cakes. Its 
use insures you against cake failures and the 
loss of the other valuable ingredients used 
in cakes. ORDER A PACKAGE TODAY. 

IGLEHEART BROTHERS 

EVANSVILLE, IND., U. S. A. 



eggs which would not be the case were the yolks thoroughly 
beaten. Rotary beaters do not fill the air cells but toughen 
the egg; therefore the cake will not raise to the required 
lightness and will be tough. Especially is this true in Angel, 
Sunshine or Sponge Cake. 

To cream butter and sugar, especially when the butter 
is hard, warm the sugar slightly, this will soften the butter 
without melting it and will save time and labor. 

In mixing cakes there are two rules which are very im- 
portant and should be remembered. The first applies 
to cakes containing butter and milk; they should be stirred 
or beaten thoroughly, especially after the flour is added. 
The second applies to Sponge Cakes and includes all cakes 
that do not contain butter or milk; these should never be 
stirred, but sugar and other ingredients beaten in being 
careful to beat up to keep the batter light, and the flour 
should be added last and folded lightly through, being careful 
not to overdo this for every stroke of the spoon after the 
flour is added tends to toughen the batter. This is one 
cause of so many tough sponge cakes. All cakes should be 
baked in ungreased molds, and all the loaf cakes excepting 
those containing fruit or nuts, should be inverted and allowed 
to hang in the mold to cool, which is the only way known to 
keep them from settling. In this way cakes do not require 
as much flour or to be made as stiff as in the old way and are 
far more delicate. 

The last important part is the baking which with a 
little care can be easily mastered. The rule is to allow 
the cake to raise to the desired lightness before browning 
over, then increase the heat and bake as fast as possible 
without burning; therefore the lighter the batter, when put 
into the oven the hotter the oven can be. 



92 



FRUIT CAKE. 
2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, creamed, 1 cup sour cream, 
1 tsp. soda dissolved in the cream, 3 eggs well beaten, 2\ 
cups of flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon, \ tsp. cloves, pinch salt, 1 
lb. raisins, 1 cup nut meats, chopped. Bake 1 hour in slow 
oven. Mrs. William C. Willets. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

2 cups brown or white sugar, 2-3 cup of butter, 4 eggs, 

1 cup of jelly or molasses, 1 grated nutmeg, 2 tsp. cinnamon, 

2 tsp. allspice, 1 cup strong coffee, 1 tsp. soda, 2 lbs. raisins 
stoned, 1 lb. currants, 5 cups flour, a little salt. Bake 1^ 
hours in a slow oven. Mrs. William Moorhead. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

1| cups sugar, \ cup sweet milk, § cup cornstarch, \ 
cup butter, 1J cups pastry flour, whites 6 eggs, 2 even tsp. 
baking powder; make a boiled icing, when cool add about 
| lb. of marshmallows, that have been melted by putting in 
the oven a few minutes; stir hard until thoroughly mixed. 

Mrs. Geo. H. Crosby. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 
Put 2 qts. of capped berries in a colander and pour 
cold water over them. Reserve a few of the choicest ones 
to be used as a garnish. Cut the others in halves and 
mix with a cup and a half of sugar. Set in a warm place 
for an hour or two. Make a soft dough of 2 cups of sifted 
flour, 3 full tsp. of baking powder, -J of a cup of butter, 1 
egg, f of a cup of sweet milk and 1 tsp. of salt. Divide the 
dough and roll into 2 pieces to fit a round pan. Spread the 
layers with softened butter, place one on top of the other 
and bake for 15 or 20 minutes. When done pull the layers, 
apart and put a layer of sweetened berries between and an- 
other on top. Serve on round plates with whipped cream 
and the whole berries. Miss Alma Holland. 

93 



FRUIT CAKE. 
2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 cups flour, 3 cups raisins, 
3 cups currants, 6 eggs, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 tbs. mace and 
cinnamon, 1 tsp. soda, 1 wine glass wine or brandy, § lb. 
citron. Bake 3 hours in a very slow oven. 

Mrs. Charles Burwell. 



ROSE CREAM CAKE. 
2 cups sugar, 1 scant cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3| cups 
flour, whites of 8 eggs, sift the pastry flour 5 times, 
2 large tsp. of baking powder well mixed through the flour. 
Bake in 3 layers, coloring the middle layer pink with fruit 
extract. Boiled icing, flavored slightly with extract of rose. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 
6 eggs, 2 cups white sugar, 1 cup butter, \ cup sweet 
milk, 3 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 lb. raisins, 1 cup 
of figs, 1 cup candied cherries, bits of orange peel, juice and 
grated rind of lemon. Mrs. R. A. Ensign. 



FRENCH LOAF CAKE. 
2 cups sugar, § cup butter, \ cup lard, 2 cups milk, J 
cup raisins, \ cup citron, 2 tsp. lemon, pinch salt and a little 
nutmeg, 4 cups flour, 3 tsp. baking powder. 

Mrs. A. P. Mather. 



SHORT CAKE. 

1 pt. flour, little salt, 2 tsp. baking powder, 2 tbs. butter, 
1 cup milk. Mix like biscuits. Bake in 2 layers with butter 
spread between. Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

94 



CUP CAKE. 
2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 4 eggs, 1 tsp. cloves, 1 heaping 
cup stoned raisins, 1 cup sour milk, 1 tsp. soda, 1 grated 
nutmeg, 4 cups flour, 1 cup chopped citron. This will 
make two loaves. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 



HERMIT CAKE. 
1 cup walnuts, 1 cup raisins, 1| cups sugar, 2\ cups 
flour, 1 cup milk, 1 cup shortening, 2 eggs, 2 tsp. of baking 
powder, 2 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. allspice. Last of all J cup 
of boiling water with \ tsp. (small) of soda. 

Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 



GINGER BREAD. 
1 cup molasses, \ cup sugar, 2 tbs. butter, 1 tsp. ginger, 
1 tsp. cloves, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 2 tsp. soda, 1 cup boiling water, 
2| cups flour, 2 eggs. Stir molasses, sugar, butter and 
spices together, then add soda dissolved in the cup of hot 
water, add flour, then the eggs well beaten. 

Mrs. Joseph G. Palmer. 



MOCHA TART. 
5 eggs well beaten, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup flour 
sifted 5 times, 1 tsp. baking powder, 2\ tbs. Mocha Extract, 
Bake in layer tins, in slow oven for 20 minutes. 



FILLING. 

\\ pt. whipped cream sweetened to taste, 2J tbs. Mocha 
Extract. Put between layers and on top. 

95 



GOLD CAKE. 
This is exceedingly tender and delicious when made of 
sour cream. It may be baked in layers or in a loaf, putting 
the white and yellow batters in streaks like a marble cake. 
For the yellow part, beat to a cream the yolks of 4 eggs, then 
add a cup of sugar and beat again. Add f of a cup of thick 
sour cream into which has been stirred J tsp. soda. Next 
fold in If cup of pastry flour that has been sifted several 
times over and flavor with a little grated yellow rind of 
orange and a tsp. orange juice or less of the extract. 

ORANGE FILLING:— Beat an egg thoroughly and add 
1 scant cup sugar with which 1 large tbs. of corn starch has 
been mixed by sifting. Add the grated yellow rind and 
juice of an orange and the juice of J lemon. Mix thoroughly 
and pour over the mixture 1 cup boiling water. Cook, 
stirring all the time, until it thickens slightly. Cool before 
using. 

CHOCOLATE ROLL. 

Small cup sugar, large cup sifted flour, 3 eggs, beat 
whites first then add yolks, beat thoroughly; 2 tbs. cold 
water, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. vanilla. Bake in thin 
layers. 

FILLING: — 2 squares chocolate, § cup water, 1 tbs. corn 
starch, 3 tbs. sugar. Cook until like custard. Spread while 
hot. Mrs. Ella Clark. 

TWO EGG ANGEL FOOD. 
1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar, 3 tsp. baking powder, pinch of 
salt, sift together 4 times, into all this pour 1 cup boiling 
milk and stir till smooth. Then fold in the well beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. Do not grease tin or flavor. 

Miss Grace Caplin. 

98 



JELLY ROLL. 
Put 3 eggs in a dish and add: 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 
1 heaping tsp. baking powder, § cup cold water. Beat 
until thin and bubbling, then add flavoring. Bake in 2 
pans. Spread with jelly and roll. Mrs. Charles Burwell. 

EGGLESS APPLE-SAUCE CAKE. 

Cream together § cup butter and 1 cup sugar. Add 1§ 
cups apple sauce and 3 cups flour, 2 level tsp. soda dissolved 
in 1 tbs. water. Mix thoroughly and add 1 tsp. cinnamon 
and 1 tsp. nutmeg. 1 cup chopped raisins and juice of 1 
lemon. Bake in loaf in moderate oven. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, \ cup butter, 3 eggs, 2 cups flour, \ cup 
milk, 1 J tsp. baking powder. Flavor with almond and bake 
in two layers. 

FILLING: — \ pt. cream, 2 egg yolks, 2 tbs. sugar, 1 

large tsp. cornstarch. Cook well and when cool flavor with 

almond and add chopped almonds that have been blanched. 

FROSTING:— 1 cup sugar, \ cup water. Cook till it 

balls in cold water. Beat into the white of 1 egg. Flavor. 

C. M. H. 
WHITE CAKE. 

2 cups sugar, 1 large spoon of butter, 2 cups flour, 1 tbs. 
cornstarch, 1 cup water, \ tsp. soda, 2 level tsp. cream of 
tartar, whites of 5 eggs. Bake in two layers and put to- 
gether with boiled frosting. If desired \ cup of chopped 
peanut meats can be added to iceing between layers. Cream 
butter and sugar together. Add \ the quantity of flour and 
cornstarch with cream of tartar, then add cup of water in 
which soda has been dissolved. Next add balance of flour 
and lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Stir well but do not 
beat. Flavor to taste. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Walter H. Cobban. 

97 



ANGEL CAKE. 

The whites of 11 eggs, 1| cups full of granulated sugar, 
1 cup of pastry flour (measured after being sifted 4 times), 
1 tsp. cream of tartar, 1 tsr>. of vanilla extract. Sift the flour 
and cream of tartar together. Beat the sugar into the eggs 
and add seasoning and flour, stirring quickly and lightly. 
Beat until ready to put mixture in the oven. Use a pan that 
has little legs at the top corner so that when the pan is 
turned upside down after baking a current of air will pass 
under and over it. Bake for 40 minutes in a moderate oven. 
Do not grease the pan. Mrs. Chas. Hedwall. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
1 cake German sweet chocolate, grated; 1 cup powdered 
sugar, 5 eggs beaten separately, 6 tbs. flour, 2 level tsp 
baking powder. 

FOR FILLING: — 1 cup milk, § cup su^ar, 2 egg yolks, 
small lump butter, 2 tsp. flour, 1 tsp. vanilla, add whites of 
the eggs when cold. 

BOILED FROSTING:— § cup sugar, 1 tbs. cream. 

Mrs. D. P. Ensign. 

GOLD LOAF CAKE. 
Yolks of 8 eggs, 1J cups of granulated sugar, 2-3 cups of 
butter, 2-3 cup of sweet milk, 2 cups of flour, 1 tsp. cream of 
tartar, scant § tsp. soda, flavor to taste. Sift flour once then 
measure, add soda and sift three times. Cream butter and 
sugar thoroughly, beat yolks about half, add cream of 
tartar and beat to a stiff froth, add this to creamed butter 
and sugar and stir thoroughly, add milk then flour and stir 
very hard. Put in a slow oven at once. Will bake in 30 
to 50 minutes. Good also as layer cake with whipped cream 
filling. Boiled frosting with § cup chopped dates make a 
delicious filling. Louise Burnwell. 



ANGEL CAKE. 

Whites of 8 large eggs or nine small ones, 1| cups granu- 
lated sugar, 1 cup of flour (any good pastry flour), \ tsp. 
cream of tartar, a pinch of salt, added to eggs before whip- 
ping. Flavor to taste. Directions: — Sift measure and set 
aside sugar and flour. Whip eggs to a foam, add cream of 
tartar and whip until very stiff, add sugar and beat in. 
Then flavor and beat in, then the flour and fold it lightly 
through. Put into an angel food tin, put in a cool oven until 
dough raises to top of pan, increase the heat and brown. 
Use the yolks of eggs for salad dressing for two chickens or 
for Gold Loaf Cake. Louise Burnwell. 

DATE LOAF. 
1 lb. dates, 1 lb. English walnuts, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
flour, pinch of salt, 4 eggs beaten separately, 2 tsp. vanilla, 
2 tsp. baking powder, 2 tbs. brandy. Bake 90 minutes. 
Keeps as well as fruit cake. Mrs. Chas. Oliver. 



A QUICK CAKE. 
2 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 1 tbs. of butter, \ cup of milk or 
cream, 1 cup of flour before sifting, 1 heaping tsp. of baking 
powder in flour, stir all together briskly a few minutes, bake 
2 cakes in hot oven, can be baked and ready for table in 
20 minutes. Mrs. O. C. Calhoun. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, then together 
thoroughly, 1 cup sugar well beaten in, \ cup potato flour 
with 1 tsp. baking powder folded in. Bake in angel food tin 
about 40 minutes in moderate oven. Add pinch salt and 
flavoring. Mrs. Arthur Mather. 

99 



BUTTERMILK CAKE. 
1 coffee cup sugar, 2-3 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup butter- 
milk, 1 cup raisins, 1 tsp. soda, 2 cups flour, spices to suit 
taste. 

CHOCOLATE COCOANUT CAKE. 
^ cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup flour, \ cup sour 
milk, \ cup cocoanut, \ cup chopped walnuts, 2 sq. melted 
chocolate, 1 tsp. vanilla, \ tsp. soda, 3 eggs well beaten. 

Mrs. D. P. Ensign. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
\ cup butter, 1J cups sugar, \ cup milk, 1 2-3 cups flour, 

4 eggs beaten separately, lj squares Baker's chocolcate in 

5 tbs. hot water (set over hot water to melt), 4 level tsp. 
baking powder, 1 tsp. vanilla. When all together beat hard 
for five minutes or more. Bake in slow oven for ten minutes 
and gradually increase heat, watching carefully not to 
overbake. Mrs. F. T. Corriston. 

DEVILS FOOD. 

1 cup sugar, \ cup butter (soft), 1 egg, \ cup sweet milk, 
2 good tsp. baking powder, \\ cups flour, 2 sq. chocolate 
dissolved in \ cup boiling water. Put all in a mixing bowl 
and beat five minutes or longer. Mrs. Hugh Wakefield. 

DEVILS FOOD (inexpensive and good.) 
1 cup sugar, \ cup sour milk or cream (latter is best), 
1 level tsp. soda, \ cup hot water, 1| sq. chocolate, 1J cups 
flour, 2 eggs, vanilla, pinch of salt. Put sugar, cream and 
soda together, dissolve chocolate in hot water. Save white 
of one egg for frosting. Beat the rest and add to cake 
mixture. Sift flour thoroughly and add. Frost with boiled 
frosting using remaining white of egg and one cup of sugar. 
Bake in a dripping pan in moderate oven. 

Mrs. J. C. Moodey. 

100 



FUDGE CAKE. 

2 sq. chocolate melted, \ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, \ 
cup milk, \\ cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, \ cup English 
walnuts cut fine; 1 tsp. vanilla. 

FROSTING:— 1 sq. chocolate melted, 2 tbs. butter 
melted, 2 tbs. milk, \\ cups confectioner's suerar. 

Grace B. Mather. 

NUT LOAF. 
1 cup ground nuts, mostly English walnuts, 2 cups bread 
crumbs, 2 beaten egp-s, salt, 2 cups sweet milk or a little 
more if crumbs are dry, pour into a buttered baking dish, 
place small pieces of butter over the top, bake in slow oven 
35 minutes. Eat hot. Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 

DELICIOUS ORANGE CAKE. 

Rub thoroughly to a cream 2 cups of sugar and 2-3 of a 
cup of butter, adding 3 eggs beaten separately, squeeze the 
juice of 2 large oranges into a cup, adding enough water to 
fill it. Stir this into the mixture together with 3| cups flour, 
2 even tsp. cream of tarter and 1 of soda, and a little of orange 
rind grated. Bake in layer tins. 

FILLING: — 1 egg, grate a little of the orange rind into 
this and the juice of half an orange, adding sugar enough to 
thicken. Mrs. E. T. White. 

POTATO CAKE. 
Cream \ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, add \ cup mashed 
potatoes, 3 large tbs. chocolate, 2 egsrs beaten separately, 
| cup milk, \ tsp. vanilla, \ cup chopped raisins, § cup wal- 
nuts, \ tsp. cinnamon, \ tsp. nutmeg* and cloves, 1| cups 
flour sifted 3 times with 1J tsp. baking powder. 

Mrs. Kessing. 

101 



NUT CAKE. 
2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, white of 5 eggs, 2 tsp. of baking 
powder, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour and 1 cup chopped nuts. 
Makes 2 loaves. Mrs. C. J. Hedwall. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

1J cups powdered sugar, J cup butter, 3 eggs beaten 
separately, § cup milk, 1J cups of bread flour, 1 scant tsp. 
cream of tartar, f scant tsp. soda dissolved in milk, 1 tsp. 
vanilla, grated rind of 1 lemon, little salt. Make 2 small 
loaves. Mrs. Joseph Tuttle. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Sift into a bowl 1 cup of granulated sugar, 1 even cup of 
sifted flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, 3 eggs, 3 tbs. cold water, 
pinch of salt, tsp. extract of almonds, mix all together 
thoroughly. Bake in a moderate oven 20 or 30 minutes. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

PORK CAKE. 
1 lb. pork chopped fine, 1J cups boiling water, pour on 
pork and let stand few minutes, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
butter, 2 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 4 cups flour, 4 lbs. raisins, § 
lb. dates, § lb. citron, \ tsp. cloves, 1 tsp. soda, juice and 
rind of 1 lemon, 2 tsp. cinnamon, \ tsp. nutmeg. 

Mrs. M. A. Scheldrup. 

GINGER SPONGE CAKE. 
1 cup molasses, 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sour 
milk, 4 eggs, 3 cups flour, 1 tsp. of soda, 1 tbs. ginger. This 
makes two loaves. Cream butter and sugar, add well 
beaten yolks of eggs, then molasses and \ of the milk and 
flour. Now put in ginger and soda dissolved in the rest 
of the milk. Last of all the 4 well beaten whites of eggs. 

Mrs. Fred Darling. 

102 



SOUR CREAM CLOVE CAKE. 
1 egg beaten light, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 1 tsp. 
soda dissolved in cream, 1J cups flour, J tsp. ground cloves, 
pinch of salt. Mix and bake in muffin pans in moderate 
oven. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE. 
1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 2 eggs, 1J cups flour, 
\ tsp. soda in cream, 1 tsp. baking powder in flour, flavoring 
and salt. Mrs. Strange. 

SNOW CAKE. 

\ cup butter, 1 cup sugar beaten to a cream, \ cup milk, 
1| cups flour, whites of 4 eggs beaten very stiff and carefully 
stirred in the very last thing, 1 heaping tsp. of baking powder, 
flavor with vanilla or almond. Mrs. Fred Darling. 

SPICE CAKE. 
\\ cups sugar, \\ cups sour milk, 2-3 cup butter, 1 cup 
currants, \\ cups seeded raisins, 1 tsp. ground cinnamon, 
\ tsp. ground allspice, \ tsp. ground nutmeg, 1 heaping tsp. 
soda, 3 eggs, 2 2-3 cups of flour. When baked mix \ cup 
sugar and \ cup butter, spread over top layer cover and 
let steam. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of 7 eggs, yolks of 5 eggs, If cups granulated 
sugar, 1 cup flour, \ tsp. cream of tartar, pinch salt added to 
whites of eggs before whipping, flavor to taste. Sift, measure 
and set aside, sugar and flour. Separate the eggs, putting 
the whites in the mixing bowl and the yolks in a small bowl. 
Beat yolks to a very stiff froth, whip eggs to a foam, add 
cream of tartar and whip until very stiff. Add sugar to the 
whites and beat in, then yolks and beat in, then flavor and 
beat in, then flour and fold lightly. Put in moderate oven 
at once, bake 30 to 40 minutes. Mrs. Charles Burwell. 

103 



THANKSGIVING CAKE. 

3 eggs, \ cup butter, 1| cups sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 
2J cups flour, 1| tsp. baking powder, \ lb. citron cut fine, 1 
tsp. lemon extract. Cream the butter and sugar. Separate 
the eggs. Add the beaten yolks, then milk. Sift the baking 
powder with the flour and add flour and extract. Add citron 
and lastly fold in beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 3 layers. 
Whites of 2 eggs for icing, 2 cups of sugar and tsp. lemon 
extract. Boil the sugar with a little water until it spins a 
thread. Add the beaten whites of the eggs and beat until 
thick enough to spread. Add flavoring. 

WHITE LADY CAKE. 

\ cup butter (scant), 1| cups granulated sugar sifted, 
1 cup cold water, 3 even cups flour sifted 3 times before 
using, 2 rounded tsp. baking powder, whites 4 eggs, flavoring. 
Cream the butter and sugar, add \ of the water with 1 cup 
flour, beat thoroughly, add second cup flour, continue beat- 
ing, into the last cup flour is sifted the baking powder and 
add as the others, then the rest of the water, flavor and fold 
in the stifly beaten eggs. Mrs. Paul Schmitt. 

WHITE CAKE. 

| cup butter, \\ cups sugar, 2 cups flour, nearly 1 cup 
sweet milk, heaping tsp. baking powder, whites of 4 eggs 
well beaten, flavor with almond, or add 1 cup English wal- 
nuts, cut fine. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

WHITE CAKE. 
1 cup sugar, 1 \ cups flour, 1 rounding tsp. baking powder. 
Put into a cup whites of 2 eggs. Fill cup half full of soft 
butter. Then fill cup with milk. Add flavoring and beat 
all ingredients 5 minutes. Mrs. Hugh Wakefield. 

104 



BUTTER FILLING FOR LAYER CAKE. 

J lb. freshened butter, 2 cups powdered sugar, yolks of 
2 eggs. Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, then add the 
eggs and 2 tbs. of cream. Flavor to taste. Cream all well 
together. Mrs. D. H. McMullen. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE. 

2 cups of sugar, \ cup (small) of butter, 1 cup milk, 2§ 
cups of flour (measure before sifting), 4 eggs (the whites), 
2 tsp. baking powder. Bake in 3 cakes. 

ICING: — 1J cups sugar, 2 eggs (the whites), 3 tbs. of 
water. Boil sugar and water together until syrup threads 
when dropped from spoon. Add the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth and beat until stiff enough to spread nicely. Flavor 
with vanilla or rose. Alma R. Holland. 

WALNUT FARINA CAKE. 

Yolks of 6 eggs beaten with \ cup sugar, f cup walnut 
meats, f cup Farina, \ tsp. baking powder, sifted with 
Farina, add whites beaten very stiff. Beat batter well. 
Bake in 2 layers, put whipped cream between. 

C. M. Cumbow. 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

\ cup butter (scant), If cups granulated sugar (sifted), 
1 cup cold water, 3 even cups of flour (sifted 3 times before 
measuring), 2 rounded tsp. of baking powder, whites of 4 
eggs. Flavor with \ tsp. of almond extract and \ tsp. vanilla 
(mixed). Cream the butter and sugar, add \ of the water 
with 1 cup of the flour, beat thoroughly and add second cup 
flour, continue beating; into the last cup of flour sift the 
baking powder, and add as the others, then the rest of the 
water, flavor and then cut and fold in the stifly beaten 
whites very carefully. This will make 3 layers 12 inches 
square, or 2 layers 14 inches square. Layer cakes require a 
hotter oven than loaf cakes. Use pastry flour. 

105 



FILLING FOR LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 
Grind together in the meat grinder, § lb. figs, \ lb. pecans 
or English walnuts and \ lb. raisins. Make a boiled icing 
of 2 cups of granulated sugar, \ cup of water, whites of 2 
eggs. Boil sugar and water together gently without stirring 
until it threads from the spoon, turn this mixture slowly in 
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, beat while turning on the 
hot liquid, continue beating until of the right consistency to 
spread, leave out \ and into the rest stir the frui+ and nuts. 
Spread the fruit icing between the layers and on the top, 
and over this spread the plain white icing. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 
1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 3 cups 
flour, whites of 5 eggs, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 lb. mixed nuts, 
chopped, weighed in shell. Mrs. Charles Hedwall. 

GERMAN BREAD CAKE. 

12 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 cups 
granulated sugar, 1 cup toasted white bread crumbs grated 
and sifted, \ tsp. salt, \ lb. grated a 1 trends (not blanched), 
| lb. grated citron, 1 grated lemon ri^d, 1 tsp. each cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 tsp. baking powder mixed in bread 
crumbs. Mix sugar and yolks, then other ingredients, last 
of all whites of eggs. Bake in angel food tins 1 hour in 
moderate oven. Very fine. Mrs. Charles H. Johnson. 

GERMAN CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
1 cup sugar, \ cup butter, 1 egg, \ cup milk (scant), 
\\ cups pastry flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, 2 sq. 
German chocolate dissolved in \ cup boiling water. Put 
all into a mixing bowl and beat for 5 minutes or longer. 
Bake in a moderate oven about thirty minutes. Cover with 
frosting made as follows: 1 cup German chocolate, 1 egg, 
1 cup powdered sugar, 3 tbs. of cream, flavor with vanilla. 

106 



CHOCOLATE COCOANUT CAKE. 
1 cup butter, 2 cups flour, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup sour 
milk, 2 cups cocoanut, \ cake of melted chocolate, 1 tsp. 
soda, 5 eggs, 1 tsp. vanilla. Beat butter to a cream, add 
sugar, dissolve soda in little sweet milk, add to sour milk, 
add to butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks of eggs, then 
chocolate grated. Put cocoanut into sifted flour, add 
beaten whites of eggs last. 'Use either chocolate or white 
icing on the cake. Fresh grated cocoanut is best but if 
prepared cocoanut is used soak it in milk for an hour. 

ICING: — Melt 2 sq. chocoloate, add 1 cup sugar, 1 tbs. 
flour, 1 cup sweet milk, yolks of 2 eggs, cook in double boiler 
until it thickens, stir in § cup of cocoanut either freshly 
grated or the prepared which has been soaked in milk, 
spread on the top of the cake and between the layers if a 
layer cake is made. 

WHITE ICING: — 2 cups sugar, \ cup water, cream of 
tartar size of pea, whites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
add to the hot syrup. This amount will make enough for 
filling between the layers of the cake and for the top. If a 
loaf cake is made use only \ recipe for the top of the cake. 

Mrs. E. T. White. 



GINGER BREAD. 

\ cup of butter, § cup of molasses, \ cup sour cream, \ 
cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1| cups of flour, 1 tsp. soda. Quite good 
with one egg and one and f cups flour. Mrs. C. W. Crosby. 



GOLD CAKE. 

The yolks of 8 eggs, 1 cup sugar, f cup butter, \ cup sweet 
milk and lj cups flour, 1 tsp. cream of tartar, and \ tsp. 
soda. Flavor with lemon. Mrs. Woodrow Wilson. 

107 



SILVER CAKE. 
The whites of 8 eggs, 2 cups sugar, | cup butter, J cup 
milk, 3 cups flour, 1 tsp. cream of tartar, 1 tsp. soda. Flavor 
with rose or vanilla. Mrs. Woodrow Wilson. 

"First Lady of the Land." 

MARBLE CAKE. 
1 cup sugar, i cup butter, 2 cups flour, § cup milk, 1 
level tsp. soda, f tsp. cream of tartar, whites of 3 eggs. 
Always put whites well beaten the last thing. Divide 
mixture and to one part add: J tsp. cinnamon, J tsp. nut- 
meg, | tsp. cloves. Add some raisins if desired. 

Fannie Mather. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

\ cup sugar, \ cup sour milk, \ cup New Orleans Molasses, 
\\ cup pastry flour or (bread flour), 1 level tsp.. soda, 1 heap- 
ing tsp. ginger, 1 rounding tsp. cinnamon, 1 egg, \ cup very 
soft butter. Put all ingredients into a bowl and beat 5 
minutes. 

WALNUT TORTE. 

Beat yolks of 6 eggs until thick and creamy, add 1 cup 
granulated sugar. \ cup cream of wheat, J cup crushed 
toast, 1 cup finely chopped walnuts, add 6 stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in 3 small layers 20 minutes. Spread 
raspberry jam between 2 layers. Cover top and sides with 
whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. Mrs. Pierce. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

1 cake German sweet chocolate, 1 cup confectioner's 
sugar, 1 egg, 2 tbs. sweet cream. Vanilla flavoring added 
after cooking. Mix in order given. Beat egg without 
separating. Set bowl in boiling water on range until all is 
dissolved. Apply an inch thick on cake. 

Miss G. I. Chase. 

108 



LEMON CAKE FILLING. 

1 cup hot water, 1 cup sugar, juice and rind of 1 lemon 
grated, 1 tbs. corn starch dissolved in a little cold water. 
When almost cooled add 1 beaten egg. 

Mrs. Charles Hedwall. 

MARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 

2 cups sugar, 1 cup water, pinch of cream tartar, 2 whites 
of eggs, 2 tbs. granulated gelatine dissolved in 1 tbs. of 
water. After boiling sugar and water stir into gelatine and 
turn in the whites of eggs. Mrs. William H. Norton. 

APRICOT FILLING. 

Apricot pulp sweetened. Butter layers of cake and 
spread apricots between and on top. Serve with whipped 
cream. Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

CARAMEL FROSTING. 
1 cup caramel sugar, f cup butter, § cup milk. 

Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 

ICING. 

1 cup white sugar, \ cup milk, 2 squares chocolate. Boil 
until thick, then add yolk of 1 egg. Boil 1 minute more, 
take from fire and stir until the right consistency to frost. 

Mrs. Longsdorf. 



109 



Cookies and Doughnuts 

"He's lost every hoof and hide, I'll bet a cookie." 

— Bret Harte. 
"An enormous dish of balls of sweetened dough, fried in 
hog's fat, and called doughnuts or olykaoeks." — Irving. 

GERMAN ALMOND COOKIES. 
Whip whites of 6 eggs to a stiff froth, add 1 lb. granulated 
sugar, 1 lb. of finely chopped almonds, 1 tsp. cinnamon, grated 
rind of 1 lemon, drop from tsp. on a buttered tin and bake 
slowly \ hour. Mrs. Pierce. 

MARGUERITE RECIPE. 

\\ tbs. granulated sugar, \\ tbs. powdered sugar, \ tsp. 
lemon juice, white of 1 egg unbeaten, } cup chopped walnuts. 
Mix well together and spread on crackers; brown in a hot 
oven. Mrs. Lugsden. 

HERMITS. 

\\ cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup chopped 
raisins, 2 tbs. milk, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, 1 tsp. salera- 
tus. Mrs. John F. Willis. 

CHOCOLATE BARS. 

\ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 level cup pastry 
flour or scant cup ordinary flour, 2 sq. Baker's chocolate, 1 
cup walnut meats chopped. Cream, butter and sugar, add 
eggs beaten together, add flour. Melt chocolate and add, 
mixing thoroughly. Add walnut meats. Spread about \ 
inch thick in buttered tin and bake j hour in very slow 
oven. This should be a little sticky when first baked. Cut 
into bars. Mrs. C. E. Yeoman. 

110 



LEMON COOKIES. 
1 pt. sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, juice and grated rind 
of 1 lemon, 1 tsp. soda dissolved in lemon juice, 1 qt. flour. 
Do not mix too stiff. Roll, cut and bake. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

OATMEAL DROPS. 
Cream 1 cup butter and 1 cup sugar, add 2 well beaten 
eggs, 4 tbs. milk, f tsp. soda, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 cup chopped 
raisins, 2 cups oatmeal, 2 cups flour. Bake on buttered 
paper, make batter quite stiff. Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

PEANUT COOKIES. 
Cream together 2 rounded tbs. of butter and J cup 
granulated sugar, add 1 well beaten egg, 2 tbs. milk and 1 
tsp. of lemon juice, mix 1 tsp. of baking powder with | cup 
flour and stir in, add 1 cup of finely chopped peanuts and 
more flour if necessary to make a stiff batter. Drop by tsp. 
in buttered tins, an inch or so apart and bake in a quick 
oven. Mrs. Rodearmel. 

WALNUT BROWNIES. 
| cup sugar, J cup molasses, | cup shortening, \ cup 
milk, 1 egg, \ tsp. soda, 1| cups flour, 1 tsp. cinnamon, \ 
tsp. allspice, § tsp. (small) ginger. Bake in gem pans and 
decorate on top with walnut meats and dates. 

Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 

CHOCOLATE HERMITS. 
1 egg, \ cup sugar, \ cup melted butter, \ cup milk, 
2 tsp. baking powder, 3 tbs. melted chocolate, \ cup raisins, 
| cup nuts, 1| cups flour, pinch of salt. Drop from spoon on 
to buttered pans. Miss Grace Caplin. 

Ill 



PITTSBURG COOKIES. 
2 cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup rich sour cream, 2 eggs, 
5 cups flour, 1 tsp. soda, pinch of salt and a little nutmeg. 
Roll cookies very thin, sprinkle a little sugar on top and bake. 

Mrs. Walter Cobban. 

FLORIDA COOKIES. 
2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, f grated nut- 
meg, 3 cups flour, 2 cups seeded raisins, 1 tsp. soda (dis- 
solved in J cup hot water). Drop from a spoon and bake in 
a moderate oven. Mrs. J. C. Buchanan. 



GINGER COOKIES. 
1 cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup melted butter, 2 eggs, 
scant | cup boiling water, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. ginger. Let 
this batter cool then add flour to mix very soft. Roll out 
or drop from spoon on greased pans. 

Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 



GINGER COOKIES. 
1 cup sugar, 1 cup shortening, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
sour cream with 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. ginger, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 
1 tsp. cloves. Flour to make medium thickness. I always 
roll out dough and make a tester first. If very rich cream 
is used J cup shortening is plenty. Pinch salt. 

Mrs. Arthur Mather. 

VERY RICH DELICIOUS COOKIES. 
| lb. butter, J lb. sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, f lb. flour, 3 tbs. 
cream. Mix all together on a board and roll out very thin, 
cut in shapes and sprinkle nuts or cocoanut on top. Any 
flavoring. These bake very quickly. Mrs. G. Norstrom. 

112 



BROWNIES. 

1 cup sugar, £ cup butter, 2 eggs, \ cup nuts, 2 sqs. choco- 
late melted, 1 cup flour, pinch of salt. Cream, butter and 
sugar, add eggs well beaten, then nuts and melted chocolate. 
Flour and salt last. Do not mix too stiff. Drop by tsp. 
on greased tin a little distance apart. No soda or baking 
powder required. This will make 4 dozen. 

Mrs. J. C. Moodey. 



MACAROONS. 
Whites of 2 eggs, If cups almond powder. Mix the 
almond powder gradually with the unbeaten whites of eggs. 
The mixture should be thick enough to look somewhat rough. 
Add more powder to thicken, if it is not sufficiently thick. 
Bake on unbuttered paper. Drop the macaroon mixture 
on the paper, allowing 1 tsp. for each macaroon. Bake in a 
very slow oven for 15 minutes, or until a delicate brown. 
The time should not exceed 20 minutes. When done, place 
paper on a wet board and allow it to stand for a few minutes, 
then remove macaroons from paper. When cool, place in a 
tin box or a mason jar. They should be kept several days 
before using. 



JUMBLES. 
| lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, 2 eggs, \ nutmeg, \ lb. flour. 
Sift the spice with the flour. Cream the butter, add the 
sugar gradually and cream again. Add the eggs unbeaten 
and stir until light. Add the flour slowly and mix well. 
Place 1 tsp. of dough on a smooth baking sheet and bake in 
a hot oven until the edges are a delicate brown. Do not 
put the oakes too close together. Remove from the sheets 
as soon as they are taken from the oven. 

113 



GRAHAM COOKIES. 

1 cup sugar, f cup butter, J cup sour milk, 1 tsp. soda, 
spices to taste. Stir stiff with graham flour, use white to 
roll out, mix quite soft. Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 

DATE AND WALNUT BARS. 

2 eggs beaten separately, f cup sugar, 3 heaping tbs. 
flour, 1 level tsp. baking powder, £ tsp. salt, 1 cup dates cut 
in small pieces, 1 cup broken walnuts. Put dates and 
walnuts through the meat grinder. Mix them with the 
sugar. Add the beaten yolks and beat. Then add the 
whites. Sift the baking powder and flour thoroughly, add 
to mixture and beat thoroughly. Bake in a thin sheet and 
cut in bars when cold. Mrs. George F. Burwell. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

1 cup hot water, 1 cup butter. Boil these together, then 
stir in while boiling 1 cup flour. Let mixture cool and then 
add 3 eggs not beaten. Mix well and drop on buttered tins. 

CREAM FOR PUFFS:— 2 cups milk, \ cup sugar, 1 
egg, 2 tbs. flour. Stir all together and stir into milk while 
boiling. Flavor with vanilla. Add pinch salt. When 
cakes are cool open on side and fill. Mrs. Arthur Mather. 

MOLASSES SNAPS. 
1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 tsp. soda, 
1 tbs. vinegar, (vinegar on soda.) Mix stiff with flour, roll 
thin and bake in hot oven. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

POUND COOKIES. 
1 lb. flour, \ lb. butter, \ lb. sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, 3 tbs. 
jjream, flavoring. Mix all together at once. Roll out very 
thin. Bake a small sheet of dough and crumple up with 
*;ugar to sprinkle on top of cookies before baking them. 

Mrs. Oscar Lund. 

114 



CHOCOLATE DROPS. 
1 cup light brown sugar, J cup melted butter, 2 sq. 
chocolate (melted), % cup sweet milk, 1 cup chopped nuts, 1 
egg, § tsp. soda, 1\ cups flour, 1 tsp. vanilla. Drop with 
tsp. on buttered tins. Frost with chocolate icing. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

1 cup light brown sugar, \ cup melted butter, \ cup 
sweet milk, If cups flour, 1 whole egg and the yolk of another, 
4 tbs. melted chocolate, 2 tsp. baking powder. Beat sugar 
and butter together. Add the egg and chocolate. Beat 
again, then add milk and flour. Add raisins and nuts if 
you so desire. Drop from tsp. far apart on greased pan. 

PECAN COOKIES. 

1 cup pecan nuts cut fine, 2 rounded tbs. butter to a 
cream, \ cup sugar, beat 1 egg light and add mixture with 2 
tbs. milk and 1 tbs. lemon juice, J cup flour, with 1 level 
tsp. baking powder, add chopped nuts and enough more 
flour to make a stiff drop batter. Drop by tsp. on butter 
tin. Mrs. M. G. Rodearmel. 



BANANA FRITTERS. 

Remove the skins from 4 bananas, and cut them in half. 
Mix the yolk of 1 egg with 1 gill of water and 1 heaping tbs. 
flour, 1 tsp. of sugar, and \ tsp. of melted butter. Beat the 
white to a stiff froth. Add the mixture to the beaten white 
while stirring. Dip the bananas separately into the batter, 
drop them into hot fat, and fry to a golden brown. Serve 
with a sauce made by mixing 1 tsp. of cornstarch with cold 
water, and f cup of boiling water, 1 tsp. butter, 1 tbs. sugar, 
a little nutmeg and vanilla flavoring. Mrs. Quinby. 

115 



WHITE COOKIES. 

2 cups granulated sugar, 2-3 cup butter or lard (I use half 

lard), 1 cup sour cream, § tsp. soda (small) into cream, pinch 

salt, li tsp. baking powder in flour, flour enough to mix soft, 

flavor with nutmeg, sprinkle sugar over top before baking. 

Mrs. J. R. Hughs. 

LOVE IN A TANGLE. 
2 eggs beaten separately very light, 2 tbs. powdered 
sugar, little salt, 2 tbs. thick sweet cream, flour to roll very 
thin. Cut in long narrow strips and fry like doughnuts. 
Dust with powdered sugar. Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

SANDTARTS. (Sandplattchen.) 
f lb. sugar, \ lb. flour, f lb. butter, 3 eggs, \\ tsp. baking 
powder, grated rind of 1 lemon, \ tsp. vanilla extract. Roll 
out and cut into small cakes. Mrs. William De la Barre. 

ROLLED OATS MACAROONS. 
\\ cups rolled oats, 1 egg, 2 tbs. cream, 2 milk, 2 water, 
let stand until the oats have soaked up the moisture, then 
add 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 tbs. melted 
butter, add enough whole wheat flour to make stiff and 2 
tsp. baking powder. Make into balls as large as walnuts 
and flatten slightly. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Kessing. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 
2 cups flour, 1 cup oatmeal, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup lard 
rubbed together, 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. salt, \ cup water or 
enough to wet the dough. Roll very thin and bake in a 
quick oven. Mrs. Quinby. 

116 



OATMEAL DROPS. 
1 egg beaten light, add \ tbs. melted butter, \ cup sugar, 
1 tsp. baking powder, 1J cup uncooked oatmeal, flavoring 
and salt. Drop very far apart on baking tins, not over a 
tsp. in each, bake in slow oven. Mrs. Strange. 



ROCKS. 
2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, J cup sweet 
milk, boil it and stir in 1 tsp. level full soda, 1 cup English 
walnuts, \ lb. seeded raisins, 3 cups of flour, \ tsp. each of 
cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice. Flour the nuts and 
raisins. Stir together well and drop by tsp. in buttered pan 
to bake. Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 



ROCKS. 

2 cups sugar, \ cup sour milk, \ cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 tsp. 
each cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves, § tsp. soda, \ tsp. salt, 
1 cup walnut meats, 3 cups flour. Cream butter and sugar, 
then add well beaten eggs, spices and soda dissolved in milk. 
Then walnut meats and flour, 1 cup seeded raisins, chopped. 
Will be quite stiff. Drop by tsp. on greased tins and bake 
in moderate oven. Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 



SPRINGELE. 

7 large eggs, whites beaten to a froth, and the yolks 
beaten light, mix all together with 2 lbs. pulverized sugar, 
stir for 1 hour, then add enough flour to make a soft dough. 
Roll and cut into small cakes. Let stand over night. In 
the morning sprinkle a few anise seed in the pans that you 
bake the cakes in. Bake slowly. 

Mrs. William De la Barre. 

117 



OATMEAL COOKIES. 
1 cup sugar, \ cup butter, \ cup lard, 1 cup oatmeal, 2 
cups flour, 2 eggs, 4 tbs. milk (sweet), 1 tsp. soda, 1 tsp. 
cinnamon, 1 cup raisins, mix and drop with tsp. on buttered 
pans to bake. Mrs. David F. Swenson. 

TATTERS. (Zerrissene Hosen.) 
1 egg, \ eggshell full of water, pinch of salt, butter about 
the size of a filbert. Beat the egg and add the water and 
salt. Put butter in flour, using as much flour as the egg and 
water will absorb. Knead on board very stiff. Roll out 
very thin. Let dry for half an hour. Cut into irregular 
pieces and cut a number of slits in each. Fry in deep, hot 
fat. Do not let them brown. Drain on paper and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar and cinnamon while hot. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

BANBERRY TARTS. 
1 cup raisins chopped fine, 1 cup sugar, juice and grated 
rind of 1 lemon, 1 egg, citron size of egg. Cut crust size of 
small saucer, shape, wet edge and fold over. 

Mrs. Charles Burwell. 

COCOANUT WAFERS. 

1 egg, | cup white sugar, 1 tbs. melted butter, f cup rolled 
oats, | cup cocoanut, little salt and vanilla. Drop from tsp. 
on buttered tins 1 inch apart, bake quickly. 

Gladys A. Campbell. 

GINGER NUTS. 
1 cup molasses, 1 tsp. ginger, \ tsp. salt, 1 tsp. soda, 2 
tbs. butter, \ cup boiling water, flour to roll soft. Cut into 
doughnuts and fry in hot lard. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

118 



HICKORY WAFERS. 
Beat 2 eggs until light, then add § lb. brown sugar that 
has been rolled fine, f lb. chopped walnut meats, 5 tbs. 
flour, pinch of salt, J tbs. baking powder. Drop small 
spoonsful far apart on buttered pans. Bake until light 
brown. Mrs. John Jinks. 

DOUGHNUTS (Without Shortening). 
1 \ cups light brown sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup sour milk, a little 
salt, \ grated nutmeg, tsp. soda dissolved in a little hot 
water, flour to make soft dough. Cut into cakes and fry 
in hot lard. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 
1 heaping qt. stiff bread dough, 1 coffee cup sugar, \ 
cup shortening, 3 eggs, cinnamon and nutmeg. 

Mrs. Charles Burwell. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 small tbs. lard (melted), 
1 cup sour milk in which dissolve \ tsp. (small) soda, salt, 

1 tsp. baking powder in flour, nutmeg, flavor, mix soft. 

Mrs. J. R. Hughs. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

2 eggs, 1| cups sugar, 4 tbs. melted lard, 1 cup sweet milk 

2 heaping tsp. baking powder, a little nutmeg, a pinch of 
salt. Flour to make a very soft dough. Mrs. Gould. 

DOUGHNUTS WITHOUT EGGS. 
1 cup sour milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 tsp. soda, 2 tsp. melted 
butter, little salt and spice. Mrs. John F. Willis. 

119 



DOUGHNUTS (with potatoes). 
2 small potatoes boiled and mashed with a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, § cup sweet 
milk, add flour to make a soft dough, 3 tsp. of baking powder. 

Mrs. Fred Darling. 

KRAPFEN or BERLINER PFANN-KUCHEN. 

Melt \ lb. butter and let it cool, stir in the yolks of 10 
eggs and 5 tbs. of pulverized sugar. Stir this for f of an 
hour in one direction. Add one yeast cake (compressed), 
which has been dissolved in \ pt. of warm milk and enough 
warmed flour to make a soft dough. Work the dough until 
it blisters and then cut into small cakes with a cake cutter. 
Cover with a cloth and let get light. Fry in deep, hot lard. 
If you want to fill them do not cut the cakes as thick as it 
takes 2 layers for this. Put some jam on \ and cover the 
second piece. Mrs. William De la Barre. 

KRAPFEN. 

1 cup milk, 1 yeast cake dissolved in milk, enough flour 
to make a sponge. Set to rise and when light add J lb. 
pulverized sugar, yolks of 6 eggs, ■§ pt. of warm thin cream, 
2 tbs. rum, \ lb. melted butter, 1 lemon rind grated, a little 
salt and enough warm flour to make soft dough. Knead 
until it blisters, let rise. When light cut into cakes and let 
rise again. Fry in deep fat. These also may be filled. 

Mrs. William De la Barre. 



120 



Puddings and Sauces 

11 The proof of the pudding is in the eating " — Cervantes. 
"Hunger is the best sauce." 

APPLE FLUMMERY. 
An exceedingly dainty dessert. Pare and core 2 lbs. of 
tart apples, cook until tender with 1 lb. of sugar, the finely 
minced rind of a lemon, and water to barely cover, drain the 
juice from the apples, beating these to a pulp. Soak an 
ounce of gelatine in a little cold water for half an hour, 
add it to the apple juice and stir over the fire until all is 
dissolved, now stir in the apple pulp and a cupful of cream. 
Keep stirring over the fire for 5 minutes. Do not let it 
boil. Turn into a mold wet with cold water and when set 
serve with whipned cream. Mrs. E. T. White. 



APPLE COTTAGE PUDDING. 

J cup milk, 1 tbs. melted butter, 1 cup flour, J cup sugar, 
1 tsp. baking powder, 1 tsp. vanilla. Mix into a batter and 
pour it over sliced apples in buttered pan. Bake in moderate 
oven and serve with cream or lemon sauce . This is good made 
with other fruits. H. 



PANNED BAKED APPLES. 

Wash, quarter and core 4 tart apples, slice thin in a 
casserole or baking dish, sprinkle over then \ cup of sugar, 
add \ cup water. Cover the dish and bake twenty minutes 
in a hot oven. They must be tender but not broken. Serve 
in dish in which they were baked. H. G. H. 

121 



PAN DOWDY. 
Pare and quarter enough tart apples to fill a 5 lb. jar. 
Pour over the apples 1 cup of molasses, 1| cups water, f 
cup sugar, ^ tsp. ground allspice. Cover all with a nice 
raised biscuit dough at least an inch thick. Bake in a 
moderate oven from 4 to 6 hours. Break up the crust and 
press down into the apple and juice. Mrs. Quinby. 



APPLE SNOW. 
Stew 3 large tart apples, strain and beat with an egg 
beater. Beat the whites of 2 large eggs stiff, add ■§ cup 
sugar gradually to the eggs, beating all the time, add the 
apple and beat till like snow. Pile lightly in a glass dish, 
garnish with jelly. Serve with boiled custard or cream. 



PRUNE WHIP. 
Prune whip is made in the same way, only not so much 
sugar is necessary and a little vanilla flavoring added. Some 
prefer the prunes chopped. Always soak them over night 
and stew slowly for a couple of hours. 



STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 
2§ cups flour, 1 tsp. soda, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. nutmeg, 
\ tsp. cinnamon, J cup beef suet, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
sweet milk, J cup raisins, \ cup currants. Sift 2 cups of 
flour, soda, salt, nutmeg and cinnamon together thoroughly. 
Add the beef suet, finely chopped, the molasses, then the 
milk and last of all the fruit which has been mixed with 
the remaining flour. Pour into a buttered mold and steam 
for 2 \ hours. If it is put into small molds steam \\ hours. 

122 



APPLE WITH OATMEAL. 
Pare and slice several apples. Place a layer in a well 
greased baking dish, then a layer of cooked oatmeal, until 
all is used. Put in oven and bake twenty minutes. Serve 
with sugar and cream. Hazel Willis. 

SCOTCH APPLE PUDDING. 
Peel, core and cut in quarters enough tart apples to fill 
a 3 lb. jar, grate nutmeg over top, cut up f cup of butter 
over top, \ cup water, cover jar, place in oven and cook until 
tender, when done pour over top a batter that is made of 1 
egg, 4 tbs. melted butter, pinch salt, 1 heaping tsp. baking 
powder, 1 cup flour, and enough milk to make a batter the 
consistency of batter cakes, bake in oven 25 minutes longer. 
Turn crust down on a platter and spread over top hard 
suace flavored with cherry. Cover all with whipped cream. 
On top of that place hot marshmallows and cherries. Serve 
hot. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

HARD SAUCE. 
\ cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, \ tsp. vanilla, or 
\ tsp. nutmeg, cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, 
beating until it is light and creamy. Add flavoring and 
beat again. Serve very cold. 

SPANISH CREAM. 
1 qt. milk, \ box gelatine, 2-3 cups sugar, 3 eggs, flavor- 
ing. Let the gelatine and milk heat in a double boiler until 
the former is dissolved. Stir briskly the yolks of the eggs 
and the sugar beaten light together. Let steam for 2 or 3 
minutes. Just before removing from the fire stir in the well 
beaten whites of the eggs. Add flavoring when partly cooled. 
Turn into a wet mold. Serve cold with cream. 

Mrs. J. C. Buchanan. 

123 



CHERRY CHARLOTTE. 
Soak J oz. gelatine in J teacup of milk. Beat yolks of 
5 eggs into J lb. powdered sugar, add § cup of milk, cook 
until it begins to thicken. Take from the fire and add 
the gelatine, then strain into a large pan. Place where it 
will set quickly. When it begins to set add the whites of the 
5 eggs well beaten, f pt. of whipped cream, J cup of cherry, 
or vanilla. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Fred Robertson, Wichita. 



BURNT ALMOND CHARLOTTE. 
1 cup of sweet almonds, blanched and chopped fine, \ 
box gelatine, soaked 2 hours in J cup of cold water; when 
gelatine is sufficiently soaked put 3 tbs. of sugar into a 
sauce pan over the fire and stir until it becomes liquid and 
looks dark. Then add the almonds to it and stir 2 minutes 
more. Turn it out on a platter, set aside to cool. After 
they become cool enough break them in a mortar; put them 
in lj cup of milk and cook again for 10 minutes. Beat to- 
gether the yolks of 2 eggs with a cupful of sugar and add to 
cooking mixture, also add gelatine. Stir until it is smooth 
and well dissolved. Take from the fire, set into a basin of 
ice water, and beat it until it begins to thicken. Then add 
to that 2 qts. of whipped cream; turn the whole carefully 
into molds, set on ice to become firm. Sponge cake may be 
placed around mold if desired. Serve with whipped cream. 
Half of this recipe serves 20; be liberal with almonds. 

Mrs. Fred Robertson, Wichita. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 
1 cup sugar, \ cup butter, 1 egg, juice of 1 lemon, or J 
cup water with \ tsp. cinnamon, \ cup water. Beat well and 
cook until clear. Mrs. Fred H. Boardman. 

124 



MINT JELLY. 
1 tbs. granulated gelatine, 1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 1 pt. 
hot water, 4 tbs. mint cut in bits. Soak gelatine in little 
cold water. Mash mint, mixed with a little of the sugar, 
with a spoon. Pour over this the hot water. Add other 
ingredients. Strain and set in mold. Mrs. W. H. Norton. 



APPLE TAPIOCA. 

| cup tapioca soaked over night, in the morning pour 
over 1 pt. boiling water and simmer over the fire until 
transparent. Pare and core 6 tart apples, place in baking 
dish, pour tapioca over them, season with a lump of butter, 
cinnamon and sugar to taste, if apples are juicy do not use 
lemon, if not, add juice of 1 lemon. Cook until done. 
Serve with cream. 



SUET PUDDING. 
1 cup suet chopped fine, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 
2 eggs, 1 cup raisins, J tsp. each of cinnamon, cloves and 
nutmeg, 1 tsp. soda, use enough flour to make a stiff batter, 
and steam lj hours. 

SAUCE: — 1 cup sugar, 1J cups water or milk, small 
piece of butter, pinch of salt, 2 tbs. corn starch. When 
cooked remove from fire and add 1 egg well beaten, flavor 
with vanilla and lemon. Mrs. William Gawne. 



SAUCE. 
1 cup sugar dissolved in \ cup water. Thicken with a 
little bit of flour. Add a piece of butter size of walnut, a 
little grated nutmeg, tbs. of molasses, and enough vinegar 
to give tart taste. Strain. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

125 



BREAD PUDDING. 
2 cups of bread crumbs, 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup of 
molasses, 1 tbs. of melted butter, 1 tsp. soda in 1 cup boiling 
water, and J tsp. baking powder, nutmeg and cinnamon in 1 
cup of flour, 1 egg. Steam 2 hours. The virtue of this 
pudding lies in the fact that the last is as good as the first, as, 
by re-steaming, it tastes as fresh as when first made. 

Mrs. George H. Rentz. 



CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

Slice a loaf of baker's bread. Cut off the crust. Have 
slices medium thick. Butter each well. Take a cake tin, 
fit the bread into it in layers and sprinkle with seeded 
raisins between the layers. When the tin is filled make a 
sweet custard of 5 or 6 eggs to 1 qt. of milk and season with 
grated nutmeg. Pour over the bread, filling the tin. Press 
down and put a weight on to keep under custard. Let 
stand over night. In the morning if the custard has been 
absorbed add enough more to cover. Bake in rather slow 
oven about an hour or until it puffs up and is nice light 
brown. Serve with or without sauce. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 



BLUEBERRY PUDDING. 
1 egg, butter size of an egg, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 heaping tsp. baking powder, a little salt sifted in 
flour, flour to make a very stiff batter. Add 2 cups of fresh 
blueberries. Fold in carefully so as not to crush. Steam 
until a straw comes out clean. This may be baked in a tin 
or in gem pans. Served hot with butter. Any pudding 
sauce may be used. Mrs. Quinby. 

126 



INDIAN PUDDING. 
1 qt. milk, 2 heaping tbs. cornmeal, 1 cup granulated 
sugar, ■§ cup molasses, 1 large tbs. butter, 1 tsp. salt, 3 eggs, 
1 cup seeded raisins, 1 tsp. ginger, 1 tsp. cinnamon, J tsp. 
cloves. Heat the milk and stir in the meal slowly. Cook 
well, stirring constantly. Add the butter and molasses. 
Beat the eggs lightly. Add sugar and spices, and pour the 
hot milk and so forth over them. Stir well, add the raisins 
and bake 1 hour in slow oven. Serve with cream. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

CARROT PUDDING. 
1 cup grated carrots, 1 cup grated potatoes, 1 cup suet 
or \ cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup bread crumbs, 
1 cup syrup, 1| cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder, 1 cup 
floured raisins, 1 cup currants. Steam closely for three (3) 
hours. 

FIG PUDDING. 
1 cup seeded raisins, 1 cup chopped figs, 1 cup suet, 1 
cup sweet milk, 2J cups flour, \\ cups molasses, 1 level tsp. 
soda, \ tsp. cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg. Steam 3 hours 
and serve with sauce. 

SAUCE. 
Cream 1 cup sugar, J cup butter, add 3 well beaten eggs, 
6 tbs. hot water, put in double boiler and heat, 1 tsp. vanilla. 

Mrs. T. M. Partridge. 

FIG PUDDING. 

4 cups water, 1 cup chopped figs. Boil slowly for % 
hour, add 1 tbs. corn starch, and } cup nuts, let cool. Serve 
with whipped cream. Mrs. HedwelL 

127 



LEMON PUDDING. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add \ cup sugar, grated rind 
and juice of lemon. Cook in double boiler until smooth, 
then beat in the whites of 3 eggs. Pour out into sherbet 
cups. Mrs. Martin. 

NORWEGIAN PRUNE PUDDING. 
\ lb. prunes, 2 cups cold water. Let this stand 1 hour, 
then cook until prunes are tender and remove stones. 1 
cup sugar, If cup boiling water, 1 piece of stick cinnamon, 
again bring to the boiling point and let simmer 5 minutes. 
Dissolve \ cup corn starch in cold water and add to prunes 
and cook for 5 minutes. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. N. S. Davis. 

NUT PUDDING. 
4 eggs beaten separately, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup chopped 
nuts, 2 J soda crackers, rolled fine, little salt. Bake 20 
minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. J. W. Campbell. 

SUET PUDDING. 
1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup molasses (black) , 1 cup chopped 
suet, 1 cup milk, 4 cups flour, 1 egg, 1 tsp. salt, 2 cups raisins, 

1 tsp. cinnamon, J tsp. cloves, f tsp. soda. Dissolve soda 
in hot water. Mix well, steam 2| hours. Sauce: Whites of 

2 eggs beaten stiff, 1 cup pulverized sugar, butter size of an 
egg. Cream butter and sugar, add egg and flavor. 

Mrs. Lockerby. 

PUFFS. 
3 eggs well beaten, 1 tbs. flour, 1 pt. sweet milk. Bake 
in cups in a quick oven. Serve with sauce. 

Bessie Willis. 

128 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel and slice thin 6 sweet oranges, removing the seeds. 
Pour over them 1 cup of white sugar. Heat a pt. of sweet 
milk in a double boiler, add well beaten yolks of 3 eggs. Stir 
constantly. Add 1 tbs. corn starch dissolved in a little cold 
milk and § cup sugar. Cook well and pour over oranges. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Add gradually 
3 tbs. sugar. Spread on top of pudding. Put in oven for a 
few moments to brown. Any fruit may be used. 

Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 
\ lb. marshmallows, 1 cup thick cream, \ tsp. vanilla, 
J cup chopped candied cherries, \ cup chopped almonds, 2 
tbs. powdered sugar, sherry wine. Cut marshmallows in 
small pieces and soak in a little wine \ hour. Whip cream 
and add sugar and vanilla and the remaining ingredients. 
If you like use a tsp. granulated gelatine to mold. 

Mrs. F. P. Mather. 

QUEEN VICTORIA'S PLUM PUDDING. 

1 lb. raisins, \ lb. citron, 1 lb. currants, \ lb. brown sugar, 
\ lb. walnut meats, 1 tsp. nutmeg, 1 lb. chopped suet, \\ 
cups flour, | lb. bread crumbs, 5 eggs, \ pt. brandy or milk. 
First, mix dry materials together, second, add milk and 
eggs. Steam 6 to 8 hours. Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

1 cup bread crumbs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup suet, 2 cups flour, 
1 cup sour milk in which dissolve 1 tsp. soda, J cup molasses, 
1 lb. raisins seeded, 1 lb. currants, 1 cup walnuts, chopped 
fine, 1 tbs. orange peel, \ tsp. cloves and cinnamon and nut- 
meg. Steam 3 or 4 hours. Serve with hard or hot sauce. 

129 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

2 cups of fine bread crumbs, into which rub \ cup butter, 
yolks of 4 eggs beaten to cream with 1 cup of sugar. Add 1 
qt. of milk and stir well. Bake until custard is set, in dish 
2-3 full. Let cool. Mash 1 box of strawberries with sugar 
and spread over the pudding. Beat the whites of eggs 
with \ cup sugar, spread over all and brown in the oven. 

SAUCE: — 1 cup sugar and \ butter beaten to a cream, 
add \ CU P hot milk, and lastly 1 egg beaten very light. 
Flavor with vanilla. Mrs. O. F. Kohl. 

PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
\ cup pearl tapioca soaked over night in plenty of cold 
water. When ready to prepare pour off water and add 
a small can of shredded or grated pineapple, juice of 2 
lemons and 1 cup of boiling water. Let come to a boil, 
stirring carefully not to break the grain of the tapioca. 
Put in 1 cup sugar and let boil until clear. Add § cup 
powdered sugar and 1 tsp. of vanilla extract. Remove 
from stove and put in the whites of 2 eggs well beaten. 
Serve with whipped cream. Mrs. Hugh L. Wakefield. 

BAKED BANANA (a la Panama) 
Take very small bananas, peel, make a nice rich crust 
(piecrust). Roll, cut the shape of bananas, leaving enough 
to lap over. Sprinkle sugar on fruit, then wet the edges 
and stick tight so as not to let the juice escape. Lay in a 
pan, not letting them touch. Bake a light brown. Serve 
hot with hard sauce. Flavored with vanilla. 

Mrs. F. Guderian. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 
1 egg, 1 tbs. sugar, § cup sweet milk, § cup chopped 
raisins, \ cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup flour, 1§ tsp. baking 
powder, \ cup melted butter, added last. Steam \ hour 
in buttered cups. 

130 



LEMON SAUCE. 
1 cup sugar, 1 tbs. flour, 1 cup boiling water, juice of 1 
lemon, butter size of an egg. Boil until it thickens. 

Mrs. P. R. Robb. 

RAISIN PUFF. 
^ cup sugar, 2 tbs. butter, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 eggs, 1 
cup raisins, 2 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder. Steam 1 
hour. Serve with any preferred pudding sauce. 

Mrs. Eddy Capps. 

RAISIN PUFF. 

| cup sugar, 2 eggs, J cup butter, 3 tsp. baking powder, 
1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1 cup chopped raisins. Steam | 
hour in nine buttered cups, or 1 hour in 6 cups. Method: 
Mix butter and raisins, beat egg with sugar and milk, sift 
baking powder in flour, mix all together. Mrs. Lockerby. 



SPONGE PUDDING. 

J cup sugar, \ cup flour, J cup butter, 5 yolks of eggs, 1 
pt. boiled milk, whites of 5 eggs. Mix sugar and flour wet 
with a little cold milk, then stir in boiling milk. Cook until 
it thickens and smooth. Add butter and when well mixed 
stir into well beaten eggs. Then add whites beaten stiffly. 
Bake in shallow dish, (and place dish in a pan hot water in 
oven) until nice and brown. About 25 minutes. 

Mrs. Chas. Hedwall. 



SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 
1 cup whipped cream, 1 tsp. lemon or vanilla, J cup 
powdered sugar, white of 1 egg. Add at last but whip 
separately. 

131 



TIPSY PARSON. 
Have some sponge cake cut in cubes. Make a soft 
custard of 2 eggs and pt. of milk, sweeten to taste. Have 
ready a cup of orange juice and a cup with brandy. Into 
sherbet cups or glasses, in whichever you prefer to serve, 
place a cube of cake which has been dipped in orange juice, 
then 1 dipped in brandy alternately. When you have 1 
layer in the glass, pour in a little custard, now cake again 
and the custard until full, with custard on top, then finish 
with whipped cream and lastly a few chopped almonds. 

Mrs. J. J. Gerber. 

VEGETABLE PLUM PUDDING. 

1 cup each of grated carrots, raw potatoes and apples, 
1 cup chopped suet, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 
pinch of salt, 1 tsp. soda, spices to taste (cinnamon and 
cloves), steam 3 hours or more. Sift the flour, soda and salt 
together, add the raisins, mix the carrots, raw potatoes 
apples and suet, add to the flour and spices. 

SUET PUDDING. 
1 cup chopped suet, 2 eggs, f cup molasses, then fill 
butter cup full of C. sugar, 1 cup currants, 1 cup raisins. 
Chop peeling of half a large orange very fine. 1 cup sweet 
milk, \ tsp. soda in a little water, 1 tsp. baking powder in 
3 cups of flour, or more if needed, 1 tsp. cinnamon, \ tsp. 
nutmeg, 1 cup English walnuts and preserved cherries. 

Mrs. H. G. Swirles. 

BROWN PUDDING. 

1 cup molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup suet chopped fine 
or | cup melted butter, 1 cup raisins, 2§ cups flour, \ tsp. 
soda. Mix well, salt and spice to taste and steam 2 hours. 

132 



BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
Make a piecrust of 2 heaping cups of flour and 1 scant 
cup of lard, a little salt, cut the lard into the flour with a 
knife. Add enough cold water to make a soft dough (about 
a cup). Use a knife to mix. Roll out medium thick and 
cut in squares. Peel, quarter and core the apples. Put 4 
quarters together and fill with sugar and a little cinnamon. 
Wet the edges of the crust and fold over. Set in tin to bake. 
Do not let them touch. Serve with a sauce. 

HARD SAUCE. 
Cream 1 cup sugar, \ cup butter, add lemon juice, a 
little nutmeg and brandy if desired. Put the mixture 
through pastry bag to form roses. Garnish pudding with 
them. Mrs. C. M. Carlaw. 

CARAMEL PUDDING. 

2 cups brown sugar melted, 2 heaping tbs. of corn starch 
dissolved in \ cup cold water, If cups boiling water. Cook 
about ten minutes. Add nuts and pour in mold. Serve 
with whipped cream. Mrs. E. P. Mather. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 
1 cup sugar, butter size of large egg, 1 cup sweet milk, 
1 egg, little nutmeg, 1 pt. flour, 3 tsp. baking powder. Bake 
as cake and serve hot with sauce. 



SAUCE FOR COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Rub 1 tbs. flour in a little cold water till smooth. Pour 
into 1 pt. of boiling water, cook until clear, stirring con- 
stantly. Add a cup of sugar, a little salt and grated nutmeg. 
Strain. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

133 



RICE PUDDING, 
i cup rice, -| cup sugar, pinch salt, grated nutmeg to taste, 
1 qt. milk. Bake from 2 to 3 hours. As the light brown 
crust forms, stir into the pudding. Mrs. R. A. Ensign. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Small cup bread crumbs, pt. of sweet milk, 5 tbs. grated 
chocolate, 1 cup sugar, yolk of 3 eggs or 2 whole eggs. Boil 
first four ingredients just about a minute, then add eggs and 
bake 15 minutes. 



SAUCE. 
1 cup brown sugar, 4 tbs. cream, 1 tbs. butter. Boil 
together. Mrs. William C. Willets. 



CUBAN BANANAS. 

6 large ripe bananas. Peel and cut in halves lengthwise. 
Butter baking dish well. Lay in bananas to cover bottom of 
pan without crowding. Sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and 
bits of jelly. Another layer of bananas — sprinkle as before 
— adding 1 tbs. of butter. Pour over this 1 cup of cream. 
Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. Serve with sponge cake. 

Mrs. Charles H. Johnson. 



BAKED CUSTARD. 
1 qt. milk, 4 eggs, § cup sugar. Beat eggs and sugar, 
scald milk, pour over beaten eggs. Fill custard cups and 
set in a pan half filled with hot water. Bake in moderate 
oven until firm. Serve with caramel sauce if desired. Stir 
1 cup of sugar over the fire until melted and lightly browned 
add 1 cup of boiling water. Mrs. A. E. Benjamin. 

134 



ORANGE CREAM. 
Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with a cup of sugar, add 1 cup 
milk, and boil till thick, then add 1 tbs. gelatine dissolved in 
J cup cold water. When cool add the juice of 3 oranges 
and grated rind of 1 orange. Whip a cup of cream and fold 
in. Miss Grace CapKn. 

SAUCE. 
\ cup butter creamed, 1 cup light brown sugar, yolk 1 
egg beaten light. Beat all together until very light. \ cup 
cream or milk, added a little at a time, beating all the time, 
flavor with brandy or sherry, lastly add beaten white of the 
egg, put on ice until ready to serve. 

Mrs. G. W. Wood, Faribault, Minn. 

VEGETABLE PUDDING. 
Grate 1 cup of apple, grate 1 cup of carrots, grate 1 cup 
of potato, grate 1 cup cut raisins, grate 1 cup suet, chopped 
fine, 2 cups of flour, 1 grated lemon peel, 1 tsp. soda in a 
little boiling water, a little salt. Steam 3J hours. 

Mrs. M. B. Lewis. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 

2 tbs. sugar, 4 tbs. flour, 1 tbs. melted butter, 1 pt. 
scalded milk. Cook the above mixture to a custard and cool. 
Just before putting into the oven add 5 eggs beaten sep- 
arately. Bake in a dish set into water. Serve warm with 
hard sauce. Mrs. H. D. Bliss. 

MAPLE CUSTARD. 

3 eggs, \ tsp. salt, 2 cups milk, 1 cup heavy maple syrup. 
Beat yolks of eggs until thick, add salt, milk and maple 
syrup. Beat whites of eggs until stiff, add to mixture and 
bake in custard cups or in a baking dish until set. 

Mrs. P. R. Robb. 

135 



WATERMELON DESSERT. 
Cut pineapple into dice and let stand over night in sugar. 
In morning cut the red part of watermelon in dice and add to 
pineapple, equal parts. Let stand 1 hour. Fill champagne 
glasses with the fruit, pour over it the juice, with the juice 
of maraschino cherries. Set in ice till chilled. Place a 
cherry on top and serve. Elizabeth Hood. 



SPONGE BATTER. 

| pt. milk in double boiler, \ pt. milk mixed smooth with 
\ cup flour and then added to hot milk, cook 4 minutes. 
Take off fire and add 2 or 3 tbs. butter and 2 tbs. sugar. 
Let cool a little and stir in 3 beaten yolks. Beat whites, 
and fold in last. Put in pan of water and bake 20 or 30 
minutes in oven. Delicious served with strawberry or rasp- 
berry sauce. Mrs. Charles D. Smith. 



ITALIAN SWEET. 
1 small can shredded pineapple, \ lb. marshmallows 
(quartered), \ lb. almonds (cut lengthwise). Lay in pine- 
apple all night. \ pt. cream (whipped stiff), fold in, top off 
with cherry. Mrs. Chas. Sandborn. 



TRANSPARENT APPLES. 

6 apples, \\ cups sugar, 1 cup water. Core and pare 
apples which hold together, simmer sugar and water until a 
thin syrup, add apples, cook slowly until transparent, turn 
the apples over and cook the other side the same. Put the 
apples in a dish, pour over the syrup and serve cold. A 
few slices of lemon or nutmeg may be added. 

136 



TURKISH DELIGHT. 
3 small square cakes of Philadelphia cheese and 2 butter 
patts, thoroughly creamed together; J pt. bottle stuffed 
olives chopped fine. Season with paprika and a dash of red 
pepper. This is delicious used for sandwiches, spread this 
as butter. Mrs. D. H. McMullen. 

SIMPLE DESSERT. 
Take as many wine glasses as you have people, half 
fill with powdered macaroons, cover with grape jelly and on 
that put a heaping tbs. of whipped cream. Clara Willis. 

DESSERT. 
Baked bananas. Pull down a section of the skin of 
each banana, loosen the pulp from the skin, remove all 
coarse threads and return the pulp to the skin in the original 
position; lay the bananas as they are in baking dish and 
bake in a hot oven until the skins are black. Remove the 
pulp from the skin without injury to shape, bend in half 
circle and put in serving dish, sprinkle with powdered sugar 
and finely chopped pistachio nuts. Mrs. G. Norstrom. 

PEPPER PUDDING. 

1 egg, 1 cup suet, chopped fine, f cup sweet milk, 2 stsp. 
salt, 2 tsp. pepper, 2 small tsp. baking powder, flour to make 
a stiff batter. Steam one and one half hours. Serve with 
roast beef. Mrs. W. J. Byrnes. 

DATE PUDDING. 
1 cup chopped dates, 1 cup chopped nuts, 2 eggs, 1 cup 
sugar, f cup flour, 2 tsp. baking powder. Bake in slow oven 
thirty-five minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. W. J. Byrnes. 

137 



GRAHAM PUDDING. 
1 egg, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 cup raisins, 1 
tsp. cinnamon, 1 tsp. soda, 3 cups of graham flour. Steam 2 
hours. Foam sauce: \ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 tbs. flour. 
Rub all together into a smooth paste, and pour over \\ cups 
boiling water. Cook until done. Beat the white of an egg 
and stir in when taken off the stove. Flavor to taste. 

Mrs. W. J. Byrnes. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 
1 egg, 2 tbs. melted butter, J cup sugar, 1 cup milk, \ 
tsp. salt, 2 cups flour, 2 tsp. baking powder. Bake in 
shallow dish for about half an hour. Serve with the Foam 
sauce, of the graham pudding. Mrs. W. J. Byrnes. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
1 pt. milk in a double boiler, \ cup sugar, \\ sq. grated 
chocolate. When boiling stir in 1 cup of dry bread crumbs. 
Beat until thoroughly cooked. Serve with hard sauce. 

Mrs. W. J. Byrnes. 

FIG PUDDING. 
Beat 2 eggs light, add 1 cup sugar, \ cup milk, 2 heaping 
cups soft bread crumbs and \ tsp. salt. Chop fine 1 cup figs 
and 1 lb. beef suet. Combine mixtures and steam 3 hours. 
Serve with: 

Yellow Sauce. — Beat 2 eggs until light, add gradually 1 
cup sugar (fine granulated). Flavor with 1 tsp. vanilla and 
beat until yellow and creamy. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

DESSERT. 
Maraschino cherries and filberts with wine and whipped 
cream, set in tall glasses with cherry on top. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

138 



DRESDEN CHOCOLATE CRUMBS. 
Mix 1 cup of stale bread-crumbs, J cup grated un- 
sweetened chocolate, 2 tbs. sugar, and J tsp. salt. Put in a 
pan and bake in a moderate oven until the chocolate is melted 
and crumbs are thoroughly heated. Fill individual paper 
cases 2-3 with the mixture and top with whipped cream 
sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDING. 
\ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, \\ tsp. flour, 2 cups water. 
Mix sugar and flour and then melt with butter. A pinch of 
salt added, then the water and boil. Season to taste. Boil 
to thick syrup. 



139 



Ices 

" Then farewell heat and welcome frost." 

CRANBERRY FRAPPE. 
1 qt. cranberries, 1 pt. water, 1 pt. sugar, 2 lemons. 
Boil cranberries 5 or 6 minutes, strain through coarse cheese 
cloth, add sugar and boil until dissolved. When cold add 
the lemon juice and freeze to a mush. 

Mrs. William Burnham. 



STRAWBERRY ICE. 
1 cup strawberry juice, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water, juice of 
1 lemon, white of 1 egg; add the unbeaten white of the egg 
last and freeze. Mrs. Eddy Capps. 

NEW YORK ICE CREAM. 
1 qt. cream, whip half and scald half; 1 cup sugar to hot 
cream, then when cool freeze, adding vanilla when partly 
frozen, then add a wine glassful of sherry. 

Mrs. Rodearmel. 



FIG SUNDAE. 

Cut figs into small pieces, mix with vanilla ice cream, pour 
melted honey over top. 

WALNUT SUNDAE. 
\ lb. English walnuts, \ lb. pecans, chop together with 1 
cup of powdered sugar, add enough maple syrup to suit taste. 
Pour over plain ice cream and serve in glasses. 

140 



MAPLE ICE CREAM. 
If cups maple syrup, 4 eggs beaten separately. Put 
yolks when beaten light into maple syrup. Set on slow fire, 
stir constantly until thick, when cold add cup of milk and 
cup of cream, put into freezer. When half frozen put in the 
whites of eggs. Mrs. Moreau. 

MOUSSE. 
1 pt. whipping cream will make 1 qt. of mousse. 1 qt. 
of mousse will serve 8 persons. 1 pt. of cream, 1 cup 
powdered sugar, flavor to taste. Whip the cream, add sugar 
little at a time, then flavor. Place into a mold and pack in 
ice and salt for 5 hours before using. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 
4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 qt. milk, 1 tbs. corn starch, 1 cup 
strawberry preserves, J lb. raisins, \ lb. English walnuts 
chopped fine. Beat yolks and sugar, dissolve corn starch 
in a little cold milk. Heat the other ingredients, then add 
eggs, sugar and corn starch. Cook until it thickens, add 
preserves and let cool, when half frozen add the whites of 
eggs. Mrs. William Burnham. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 
1 qt. water, 1 pt. sugar. Boil 10 minutes. When cool 
add the juice of 4 lemons and 1 pt. of grated pineapple. 
Put into freezer and when partly frozen stir in the well 
beaten white of 1 egg and 1 pt. of cream. 

Alma R. Holland. 

BOMB GLACE. 
Line a mold with raspberry ice, fill with vanilla ice 
cream, cover, pack in salt and ice, and let stand 2 hours. 

141 



RASPBERRY ICE. 
1 qt. raspberries, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water, lemon juice. 
Sprinkle the raspberries with sugar, cover, and let stand 2 
hours. Mash, squeeze through cheese-cloth, add water 
and lemon juice to taste, then freeze. 

MAPLE FRANGO. 
1 cup maple syrup, 4 egg yolks, cook in double boiler 
until thick, when cool, add 1 pt. whipped cream, 4 egg 
whites well beaten. Pack in ice, stir once an hour, until 
frozen. Mrs. R. A. Ensign. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM. 
Whip | pt. cream, add \ lb. of marshmallows cut in small 
dice, 1 cup walnuts cut fine, \ lb. candied cherries chopped. 
Sweeten to taste. When mixed put in dish in which it 
is to be served, and keep on ice until used. 

Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

LEMON ICE. 
1 qt. milk, scald and cool, 1 cup sugar, juice of 2 lemons, 
3 oranges, freeze. This is a complete success. Dedicated 
to "My Chum." Mrs. M. B. Lewis., 

LEMON SHERBET. 

1 qt. good milk, 3 lemons, 2 cups sugar. When nearly 
frozen add the beaten whites of 2 eggs. 

Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 

LEMON SHERBET. 

2 qts. hot water, 1 qt. sugar. Boil 10 minutes, let cool 
and add the juice of 8 lemons. Strain and add the well 
beaten white of egg before putting into freezer. 

Alma R. Holland. 

142 



MAPLE MOUSSE. 
Let 1 cup of maple syrup come to a boil. Pour over it 
the well beaten yolks of 4 eggs. When cool add 1 pt. of 
cream. Freeze in freezer. 

ANGEL PARFAIT. 
Place on the fire J cup each of water and sugar. Boil 
until it spins a thread. Take from the fire and after a 
moment add slowly the whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Beat 
well and flavor. When cold stir in 1 pt. whipped cream. 
Pour into a mold and pack in ice and salt for 4 hours. Choco- 
late, candied fruit or nuts may be added to suit taste. 

Mrs. Milton O. Nelson. 

LEMON ICE. 
Juice 4 lemons, juice 2 oranges, 1 lb. sugar, 1 qt. boiling 
water. Let cool and just before freezing add the beaten 
whites of 3 eggs. Lela B. Corriston. 

PINEAPPLE ICE. 
1 can shredded pineapple, 1 pt. water, 1 large cup sugar, 
juice 2 lemons. When partly frozen add white of 1 egg 
well beaten. Mrs. H. D. Bliss. 

NUT ICE CREAM. 
1 pt. cream whipped, 1 cup sugar, f cup chopped walnuts, 
1 white of an egg whipped. Flavor with vanilla and freeze. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

GRAPE ICE. 
1 qt. water, 1 cup grape juice, 1 cup sugar, juice of 2 
lemons. Freeze. Harriet C. Dodge. 

143 



A SIMPLE AND DELICIOUS DESSERT. 
Crush slightly a qt. of fresh ripe strawberries. Pour on 
cup of sweetened orange juice and \ cup sweetened water. 
Freeze to the consistency of a frappe and serve in punch 
glasses with a spoon of whipped cream and strawberries on 
top. Mrs. William Moorhead. 

GINGER ICE CREAM. 
1 pt. cream, yolks of 3 eggs, \ jar (small) preserved 
ginger. Scald the cream and pour it gradually over the 
beaten yolks. Return to double boiler and cook until of a 
custard consistency. Remove from fire and add the ginger, 
chopped fine, and \ of the syrup. Freeze the mixture, 
using 1 part salt and 3 parts ice. 

MAPLE FRANGO. 

| cup maple syrup/ 2 eggs, \ pt. whipping cream. Boil 
the syrup down to \ cup. Beat yolks of eggs. Cool the 
syrup slightly and add to the yolks. Beat thoroughly until 
consistency of custard. Whip cream until stiff. Beat the 
whites of eggs and add to cream. Add the custard, whipping 
together quickly. Turn into molds and pack in ice and salt 
about 7 hours. In very cold weather this can be turned into 
granite basin and set out of doors to freeze. 

Miss Gertrude I. Chase. 

STRAWBERRY ICE. 
With whipped cream. Take 1 qt. water and put enough 
sugar to make quite sweet, put water and sugar on the fire 
and let come to a boil, take from fire and cool. When 
cold add juice of 3 lemons and 2 cups of strawberry juice 
put into freezer and freeze. When you serve it, put some 
crushed berries on top, then some whipped cream. 

Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

144 



CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 
Small pt. milk, 4 yolks eggs, 1 cup white sugar, J cup 
brown sugar, 1 qt. cream, 1 tsp. vanilla. Scald milk, pour 
slowly on beaten eggs, and sugar. Return to double boiler 
for a few moments until a rich custard. Stir constantly. 
Put brown sugar on stove stirring until it becomes a thick 
liquid and seems burnt a little. Pour immediately into 
bowl of hot custard. It will gradually dissolve. When 
cold dip out any hard pieces. Freeze. 

FROZEN EGG NOGG. 
Separate 9 fresh eggs. Beat yolks until creamy, whites 
until stiff. To yolks add 1 pt. sugar beating as you add 
1 qt. boiling milk. Let stand until cold. Add 1 pt. cream 
and \ pt. fresh French Cognac (whiskey). Flavor to taste, 
1 nutmeg grated. Last of all add beaten whites of eggs. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 
1 qt. cream, 1 cup sugar, 2 tbs. vanilla, 1 cup nuts, 
chopped. Mrs. E. M. Everson. 



145 



Egg Dishes 

"Oh! egg within thine oval shell 
What palate tickling joys do dwell." 



EGG CUTLET. 
Boil and thicken 2 cups of milk with flour quite thick. 
Boil 6 eggs hard, chop fine, drop eggs into the thickened milk, 
season with salt, pepper and a little onion chopped very fine, 
a few parsley leaves broken fine adds to flavor. Then fry 
in a hot pan a large tbs. to a cutlet. Mrs. Albert Schaller. 

EGG DISH FOR LUNCHEON. 
Boil eggs until hard, then cut into halves lengthwise. 
Make a cream sauce of melted butter and flour well cooked, 
then add milk and cook until thick. Put the halves of eggs 
into a pan then a layer of cream sauce, then a layer of mush- 
rooms, then a layer of eggs; and so on until the pan is filled 
or as many as you desire, sprinkle grated cheese over the 
top and brown in a hot oven. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

CREAMED EGGS. 
Take 6 eggs boiled about 15 minutes. Shell and cut 
into halves. Make a cream sauce of \ pt. milk, 2 tbs. flour 
rubbed smooth with 1 tbs. butter. Put in double boiler 
and cook until quite thick. A little pepper and salt and 
chopped parsley. Put in just enough vinegar to give it a 
tart taste. Put in the eggs and serve hot. 

Mrs. J. B. Lambert. 

146 



PINK PICKLED EGGS. 
Shell hard boiled eggs, then drop into the vinegar in 
which beets have been pickled. Remove when colored a 
delicate pink. These are pretty for a picnic lunch. 

Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

EGG SAUCE. 
1 cup cream sauce or drawn butter, 3 hard boiled eggs, 
chop whites fine and add to sauce, grate yolks over sauce, or 
the yolks may be chopped by themselves, or rubbed through 
a sieve. 

STUFFED EGGS. 
Devil the eggs in usual way, add minced ham, tongue, 
chicken or other cold meat, mustard may be omitted if 
desired and lemon juice used instead of vinegar, minced 
sardines or grated cheese may be used the same as meat; 
parsley chopped fine, cress or any savory herb for seasoning. 

Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

EGG VERMICELLI. 
3 eggs, 4 slices of toast, 1 cup milk, 1 tbs. butter, 1 tbs. 
flour, salt and pepper. Boil eggs hard and chop the whites. 
Make a thin white sauce of the milk and flour, butter and 
seasoning. Stir the chopped whites into the sauce and pour 
over toast. Put yolks through a sifter over the whole. 

Mrs. E. P. Mather. 

CHEESE OMELET. 
Melt 2 tbs. butter in a frying pan and add the regular 
omelet mixture, to which a cupful of grated cheese has been 
added. Fold and serve. Mrs. Frank T. Corriston. 

147 



OMELET. 

2 eggs, | tsp. salt, pepper, 2 tbs. milk, 1 tsp. butter. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs until light and creamy, add 
seasoning and milk; beat the whites until stiff but not dry, 
cut them into the yolks, heat an omelet pan and rub it all 
over with the butter, brown, turn in the omelet, spread it 
evenly on the pan. When the omelet is set put it into a hot 
oven for a few minutes to dry slightly on top, fold and serve 
immediately. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 

SPANISH EGGS. 

Pare 4 tomatoes, chop fine four onions, stew until 

tender, season when cooked. Beat well 4 eggs, put butter 

size of a walnut in a pan, pour in the eggs. When ready to 

turn pour in tomatoes and turn as omelet. Serve with toast. 

Mrs. W. J. Byrnes. 

GOOD RULE FOR MAKING OMELETS. 
1 tbs. water to 1 egg. Beat just enough to break up and 
season to taste with pepper and salt. Fry in butter. 



148 



Pies 



"The pie is an English institution, which, when planted on 
American soil, forthwith ran rampant and burst forth into 
an unknown variety of genera and species." — Harriet 
Beecher Stowe. 

1 cup sifted flour, J cup lard, 1 tsp. salt. Rub together 
the flour, lard and salt, add just enough water to take up 
flour, using a knife for mixing, roll out, using little flour. 

Mrs. J. G. Palmer. 



PIE CRUST. 
3 cups flour, \ tsp. salt, \ tsp. baking powder, 1 cup 
shortening, f to J cup of water. Sift the flour, salt and 
baking powder into an earthen mixing bowl. With a knife 
cut the shortening iuto the flour, until the mixture looks like 
meal, each little particle of fat being coated with flour, add 
gradually cold water, cutting it into the mixture with a 
knife. When the mixture sticks together without adhering 
to the knife or bowl turn it on to the board lightly dredged 
with flour. Use no more flour than necessary and roll as 
little as possible. Mrs. P. R. Robb. 

CREAM PIE. 
1 pt. milk, 2 large sp. sugar, 1 tbs. flour, yolks of 2 eggs, 
and white of 1. Beat eggs, sugar and flour together, let 
milk get boiling hot, pour in the beaten parts, and stir until 
thick, put in a baked crust and bake. Beat the left-over 
white of egg, flavor with any extract for top. Sweeten. 

Mrs. J. F. Willis. 

149 



CREAM PIE. 
For crust, 1 tbs. butter, f cup sugar, pinch baking powder, 
1 egg, flour to stiffen. For filling: boil custard and flavor 
with vanilla, use whites on top. Mrs. Charles Hedwell. 

CHEESE PIE (KASEKUCHEN). 
Three balls of cottage cheese, choose the fine grain; 1 
level tbs. flour, 3 beaten eggs, a little grated lemon rind, and 
enough milk to fill a long, shallow tin. Add sugar to taste. 
Sprinkle a little cinnamon on top and a few bits of butter. 
Line the tin with pie crust. Mrs. William De la Barre. 

BANANA PIE. 

Bake crust and let cool. Heat 1 cup milk, mix J cup 
sugar, 2 heaping tsp. flour and a pinch of salt, and stir into 
the milk, then add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, cook until 
thick; let this get cold. Slice into the crust 2 large bananas, 
add the custard and frost with the whites of the eggs and 3 
tbs. sugar. Brown in the oven. Mrs. Geo. S. Davis. 

GREEN TOMATO MINCEMEAT. 
1 pk. green tomatoes, 6 lbs. brown sugar, 2 lbs. raisins, 1 
tbs. salt, 1 tbs. cloves, 2 tbs. cinnamon, 2 tbs. nutmeg, 1 
tbs. allspice, a generous lump butter, 1 cup vinegar. Chop 
tomatoes fine and drain. Add as much water as drains 
away. Boil until tender. Add other ingredients, boil until 
thick, then add vinegar and boil a little longer. Will keep 
same as any mincemeat. Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE. 
1 cup cranberries cut in two, \ cup raisins cut in two, 1 
cup sugar mixed with 1 tbs. flour, \ tsp. vanilla, 1 cup 
boiling water just before putting into crusts. 

Mrs. William Burnham. 

150 



LEMON PIE. 
3 eggs, leaving out the white of 1 for frosting, 1 large 
lemon or 2 small ones, 1 cup sugar. Beat the sugar, eggs and 
lemon together. Put 1§ cups of water on the stove to boil, 
stir in 2 tbs. corn starch mixed in § cup water. The crust 
is baked before the filling is added. Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 
1 teacup powdered sugar, 1 tbs. butter, 1 egg, juice and 
rind of 1 lemon, 1 teacup boiling water, 1 tbs. corn starch 
dissolved in cold water, stir the cornstarch into the hot 
water, add the butter and sugar, well beaten together. 
When cold add the lemon and beaten egg. Bake in open 
tart without top crust — nice with meringue on top. 

Mrs. C. F. Dimick. 

LEMON PIE. 

Dissolve 1 tbs. corn starch in a little cold water. Let 
it come to boil in 1 cup hot water. Beat 3 yolks and 1 
white of egg, add 1 cup sugar and small piece of butter, 1 
lemon grated. Add to hot water. Line pie tin with good 
crust. Put all together and bake in moderate oven. Beat 
the two whites of eggs stiff, add 4 tbs. sugar. Add to pie 
when baked and put in the oven to brown. 

Mrs. E. T. White. 

RHUBARD PIE. 
Chop the rhubarb fine and let stand for half an hour; 
then squeeze out the juice, take 1 cup of the pulp, 1 egg and 
1 cup sugar, mix well and bake as usual ; add a little butter 
if liked. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

NUT PIE. 
1 pt. rich sweet milk, | cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup nuts 
rolled fine, bake in one crust. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

151 



LEMON PIE FILLING. 
1 lemon grated, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 2 tsp. flour, a little 
butter, 1§ cups boiling water. Boil until it thickens. Use 
the whites of eggs for frosting, add 2 tbs. sugar. 

SQUASH PIE. 
1 cup squash, § cup brown sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tbs. molasses, 
\ tbs. butter, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 1 cup milk, a little salt. 
Stir together until smooth add milk last. Bake in 1 crust 
J hour. Mrs. Rodearmel. 

VINEGAR PIE. 
1 coffee cup vinegar from pickled peaches, 1 egg, lump of 
butter size of walnut, tbs. flour. More sugar if not sweet 
enough. Cinnamon to taste. Cook mixture till it thickens. 
Bake with 1 crust. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

FRENCH PIE. 

Butter pie tin and fill with sliced apples, season with 
nutmeg and sugar, pour over this batter made with yolks of 
2 eggs, \ cup sugar, 1 tbs. butter, 1 cup flour, 1 tsp. baking 
powder, \ cup milk. Bake and when done turn up side 
down in another dish. Beat up the whites, sweeten, turn 
over the top and brown lightly in oven. 

Mrs. W. J. Byrnes. 

PUFF PASTE. 

1 lb. flour, 1 lb. butter, 1 tsp. salt. Ingredients ice cold. 
Sift salt and flour together. Take \ of the butter cut into 
flour. Make a very stiff paste with ice water. Knead well 
on board, wrap in damp cloth, put on ice for \ hour. Now 
divide balance of butter in three parts, flatten into sheets, 
put on ice. Take paste, beat and roll \ inch thick, put one 
piece of butter in center and fold over and under. Roll out 
fold again. Now repeat process till all butter is used up. 
Roll in cloth put on ice for several hours before using. 

152 



PUMPKIN PIE. 
\\ cups stewed or baked pumpkin, 1 cup boiling milk, % 
cup sugar, 1 tsp. salt, 1 stsp. cinnamon, 1 egg beaten lightly, 
bake about 1 hour. Mrs. William H. Norton. 



MOCK CHERRY PIE. 
1 cup cranberries cut open and dropped into cold water, 
this removes seeds; skim out cranberries and add \ cup 
raisins stoned and chopped, 1 cup sugar, 1 tbs. flour, 1 tsp. 
vanilla, \ cup boiling water, bake between 2 crusts. 

Mary L. Norton. 

MINCE MEAT. 
5 lbs. beef, 5 lbs. raisins, 3 lbs. currants, 1 lb. suet, 1 lb 
citron, 4 qts. tart apples, 2 tbs. cinnamon, 1 tbs. cloves, 1 
tbs. nutmeg, juice and grated rind of 2 oranges, 2 lemons, 
salt, 2 lbs. light brown sugar. Mrs. E. P. Mather. 



REAL ENGLISH MINCE MEAT. 
\\ lbs. beef suet, weighed after chopping, 1 lb. raisins, 
(stoned), 1 lb. apples (weighed after peeled and cored), \\ 
lbs. sugar, 1 lb. candied mixed peel (chopped very fine), 1 
lb. currants, \ tsp. ground mace, \ tsp. cinnamon, 2 tsp. 
essence of almond, rind and juice of 1 lemon, 4 wine glasses 
rum. Have all ingredients well chopped and thoroughly 
mixed. Place in jars. This will keep many months. 

Mrs. W. A. Mather. 



RHUBARB PIE. 
1 cup chopped rhubarb, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 tsp. cracker 
crumbs. Mix. Bake as usual. Elizabeth Hood. 

153 



SOUR CREAM FILLING FOR PIE. 
1 cup sour cream, J cup sugar, 1 tbs. flour, \ scant tsp. 
cinnamon, \ scant tsp. cloves, f cup chopped raisins, 2 eggs. 
Mix together the sugar, flour, cinnamon and cloves. Add 
the sour cream and beaten yolks of eggs and lastly the 
chopped raisins. If desired 1 tsp. sherry may be added. 
Bake with 1 crust, using the white of an egg for a meringue 
for the top of the pie. Mrs. P. R. Roob. 



154 



Preserves 

"Delectable dishes of preserved plums and peaches and pears 
and quinces." — Irving. 

PUMPKIN CONSERVE. 
1 medium sized pie pumpkin, pared and cut into inch 
squares, measure and add same amount of sugar, let stand 
over night, in morning add juice of 4 oranges and 4 lemons 
and rind of 2 oranges and 2 lemons, cut fine. Cook until 
thick. Mrs. E. T. White. 

SPICED GRAPES. 
6 lbs. grapes, separate pulp and skins, boil skins till 
tender, boil pulp and put through sieve to remove seeds, 
add skins, 3 lbs. sugar, 2 tbs. each of cinnamon and allspice, 
J tsp. cloves. Cook all together till it jellies. Put in glasses 
and seal. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

PLUM CONSERVE. 
1 basket plums, 8 cups sugar, 1 lb. seeded raisins, juice 4 
oranges with rind of 2 chopped fine. Remove stones from 
plums, add other ingredients. Watch carefully while boil- 
ing as it burns easily. Boil until thick. Put in jelly 
glasses. Mrs. J. G. Palmer. 

CONSERVE. 
1 basket of blue plums (stone) , 4 oranges cut in dice with 
peel on, 7 cups sugar, § lb. English walnuts cut fine. Boil 
till thick. Mrs. Wm. Womack. 

155 



CURRANT CONSERVE. 
2 qts. currants, 3 pts. sugar, 2 large oranges, 2 cups of 
raisins. Stew fruit 15 minutes. Then add orange pulp. 
Boil | hour. Mrs. W. H. Norton. 



TUTTI FRUTTI (NOT COOKED). 
Put into a jar 1 pt. of alcohol and to every cup of fruit 
add 1 cup sugar, stir every other day. Start with pine- 
apple and as fruits come in season, add to the jar every 
kind of fruit except pears, gooseberries and blueberries; 
if you put in currants use juice only. 1 pt. of alcohol will 
make a 2 gallon jar of fruit. At Christmas time it will be 
ready for use. This improves with age, but must be stirred 
occasionally. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 



PLUM CONSERVE. 
1 square basket of blue plums. Stone and cut in 4 
pieces, do not skin. 1 lb. seeded raisins (whole), 4 oranges 
and 1 lemon. Peel and slice fine. 7 level cups white sugar. 
2 cups shelled almonds chopped. Add just enough water 
to the plums so they won't stick. Cook till juice is ex- 
tracted, then add other ingredients. Cook slowly until it 
jams. Add nuts the last thing, about 10 minutes before 
taking off. Mrs. Eugene DeHaven. 



ORANGE-RHUBARB CONSERVE. 

Slice very thin, 6 oranges into a preserving kettle, add 7 
lbs. sugar and place over a very slow fire until sugar is all 
dissolved, then add 7 lbs. pie plant peeled and cut up as for 
stewing. Boil 35 minutes, then put into glasses. 

Mrs. J. C. Sterling. 

156 



SPICED RIPE TOMATOES. 
1 lb. tomatoes, f cup sugar, \ cup vinegar, § tsp. cinna- 
mon, \ tsp. cloves. Pare tomatoes, scoop out the seeds 
and throw away. Boil sugar, vinegar and spices 10 minutes, 
then add tomatoes and boil 5 minutes. Scoop out tomatoes 
and boil \ hour, then add tomatoes again and heat, then 
seal in jars. Mrs. Joseph Tuttle, Hartford. 



PIEPLANT CONSERVE. 
3J lbs. pieplant, 3 lbs. sugar, 1 lemon rind and juice, 1 
orange rind and juice. Boil 30 minutes, then add | lb. 
blanched almonds. Put in jelly glasses. 

Mrs. J. G. Palmer. 



GRAPE CONSERVE. 
1 basket Concord grapes, wash and put in kettle and 
boil until soft, rub through colander; to the thick juice add 
2 cups English walnut meats, 1 lb. raisins, 3 oranges cut in 
small pieces (peel and boil the rind in a separate pan of 
water, drain, then add fresh water and boil again). When 
soft add to the other ingredients with 5 lbs. granulated 
sugar, boil until thickens, put in jelly glasses and seal. 

Mrs. William Gawne. 



GINGERED PEARS. 
Cup up fine after peeling 1 pk. Kiefer pears. Put in 
jar in layers with 5 lbs. sugar. Let stand overnight. In the 
morning put over slow fire, add \\ lbs. crystallized ginger, 
3 lemons sliced thin, \ lb. seeded raisins, 1 small cup vinegar, 
1 tsp. grated nutmeg, 1 tbs. cinnamon, \ doz. small cloves. 
Cook until reduced f . Add \ lb. chopped walnuts last. 

Mrs. CM. Hanscom. 

157 



SPICED GRAPES. 
Take pulp from grapes and save skins. Boil pulp and 
put through colander to remove seeds. Then add skins to 
pulp, to every 7 lbs. fruit take 4| lbs. sugar, f pt. vinegar, 2 
tsp. each of cloves and allspice, 1 tsp. cinnamon. Boil as 
for jam. Mrs. H. Briggs. 

GINGER PEAR. 

7 lbs. sugar, 7 lbs. pears, using the green pears cut in 
dice, add 1 lb. crystallized ginger or an amount that would 
give equal strength of green ginger root, juice of 2 lemons. 
Boil until quite thick. Mrs. E. W. Ensign. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 
1 qt. peaches, 1 qt. sugar, 1 orange, 1 lemon. Boil 
peaches, oranges and lemons until all are mixed together, 
then add sugar and boil for two hours. Mrs. Moreau. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 
Very good. 7 lbs. currants, 5 lbs. brown sugar, 1 pt. 
vinegar, 3 tbs. cinnamon, 3 tbs. cloves. Pick over currants, 
add other ingredients and cook slowly 1| hours. 

Mrs. B. G. Hardwick. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 
5 oranges and 1 lemon. Slice 3 of the oranges and the 
lemon as thin as possible. Peel the other 2 oranges and cut 
off all of the tough white skin. Slice thin as possible and 
add to the first. Take 1 lb. sugar to 1 lb. fruit and add 2 
qts. water. Let stand 24 hours, then boil 2 hours. Let 
stand again 24 hours. Boil § hour and can. Seal. 

Miss Augusta Hedwall. 

158 



WATERMELON PRESERVES. 
Use a good ripe melon and cup up in small inch pieces 
both red and white parts. To 1§ cups of melon add 1 cup 
sugar, let it stand over night. Drain off the liquid in the 
morning and boil it to a syrup, add the melon and boil until 
melon looks clear, the last 15 minutes add sliced lemons (3). 
Seal very carefully in jars. Will be a nice rosy color in 3 
weeks and then is ready for use. A delicious sauce. 

Mrs. G. Nor strom. 



HOW TO OPEN FRUIT JARS. 
Place the jar bottom side up in hot water deep enough 
to cover the cap only, or hold for a moment under the hot 
water faucet, turning the jar as the water strikes it. The 
cover can easily be removed. 

SWEET CHERRY PICKLE. 

4 lbs. sugar, 7 lbs. fruit, 1 qt. vinegar, 1 scant tbs. whole 
cloves, stick of cinnamon. Stem and stone fruit. Weigh fruit 
after pitted. Let sugar and vinegar come to a boil, pouring 
over fruit at once. Next morning pour off syrup and let 
simmer gently for 1 hour. Then add fruit and spices. After 
coming to a boil put in jars and seal. 

Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 



JELLY. 
In making always boil the juice 20 minutes before adding 
sugar, after the sugar has been added boil 5 minutes after it 
begins to boil, then put in glasses. A small amount of tart 
apple juice added to fruits which do not jelly easily simplifies 
matters and in many cases helps the flavor. Some fruits 
are too strong or tart. 

159 



QUINCE JELLY. 

Quarter a peck of quinces, do not pare nor core, cut out 
all the bad places from the fruit, cook \ peck at a time. 
Cover the fruit with water, cook until soft. Put into jelly 
bag over night. Squeeze out all the juice left in the bag and 
measure it, cook the juice about 15 minutes. Then add an 
equal amount of sugar, let it cook until a sample of it placed 
on ice thickens. Pour in tumblers, when cold cover with 
melted paraffine. Mrs. E. T. White. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY. 
Is made the same way. Flavor with several fresh rose 
geranium leaves which are cooked with the jelly, then take 
out the leaves before pouring the jelly into the tumblers. 
This flavoring is a great addition to the jelly. 

Mrs. E. T. White. 

LATE AUTUMN JELLY. 

1 quince, 1 qt. cranberries, 3 apples. Stew as for sauce, 
strain, add equal parts of sugar to the juice and boil until it 
jellies. Mrs. J. C. Buchanan. 

GOOSEBERRY CONSERVE. 

2 qts. berries, 1 J oranges, 1 lb. seeded raisins, 5 cups sugar, 
squeeze juice from oranges, put rind through meat grinder, 
mix ingredients, boil 20 minutes. Mrs. F. Guderian. 

CONSERVE SUPERBE. 
1 box currants, 1 box gooseberries, 2 oranges. Pulp of 
both and rind of one boiled tender and put through meat 
grinder. Mix, add sugar lb. for lb. Boil until thick. 

Mrs. David. 

160 



BAR LE DUC. 
Boil 1J cups water and 6 cups sugar until it threads. 
Then add 1 pt. strained honey and boil 3 minutes longer. 
Then add 3 qts. large currants and boil 3 minutes and simmer 
10 minutes. Mrs. Frank T. Corriston. 

CHERRY CONSERVE. 
To 1 box cherries take the juice of 1 lemon and \ orange 
chopped fine, f lbs. sugar to 1 lb. of mixture. Let cook 
about 20 minutes or until thick. Mrs. Capps. 

QUINCE HONEY. 
Pare, core, and run through meat grinder. Take equal 
parts sugar and quince, let stand over night, in morning 
cook fifteen minutes. Not too thick. 

Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 

TO CAN GREEN BEANS, PEAS, ASPARAGUS AND 
CARROTS. 

Beans, peas, asparagus, carrots. Place in a wire basket 
and plunge into boiling water while you count 20, add to 
water a piece of bicarbonate of soda the size of a large bean 
to 1 gal. water. Throw them quickly into cold water a few 
moments and drain, fill jar to about an inch from the top, 
add a tsp. salt, stand jars on top of a rack in a boiler, sur- 
round with cold water half way, cover the boiler and boil 
for an hour, screw the lids down tightly. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

CANNED CORN. 
9 cups corn, \ cup sugar, f cup water, not quite f cup salt. 
Cut corn from cob; do not scrape the cob. Boil twenty 
minutes and can as you would fruit. When you open a can 
set on back of stove with water enough to cover. Do not 
let boil, but heat through. Then pour off water and add 
milk and butter. The finest ever. Mrs. W. J. Byrnes. 

161 



TO CAN TOMATOES WHOLE. 
Select small and solid tomatoes, put into wire basket and 
plunge in boiling water quickly to peel. Pack into jars 
loosely, add § tsp. salt to each jar and fill to overflowing 
with water that has been boiled and cooled. Adjust the 
rubbers, lay on the tops loosely, put the jars into a boiler 
and surround with cold water, boil rapidly 5 or 10 minutes, 
then fasten each jar without lifting the lid. 

Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 



162 



Pickles 

11 Variety is the very spice of life. 11 

ENGLISH CHUTNEY. 
1 lb. tart apples, 1§ lb. ripe tomatoes, 1 doz. small red 
peppers, 2 small white onions, \ lb. seeded raisins, good 
handful of mint. Chop all very fine, then add 6 tsp. salt, 2 
tsp. mustard, 1 lb. white sugar. Mix together in earthen 
jar, pour over it 1 qt. of vinegar which has been boiled and 
cooled. Mix well and let stand in a cool place. C. F. 



SWEET DILL PICKLE. 
1 qt. dill pickles (quartered lengthwise and halved), 4 
lbs. sugar, 1 qt. cider vinegar, \ box or 1 oz. mixed spices. 
Boil vinegar, sugar and spices to thick syrup. Put pickles 
in jars and pour syrup over them. Next day drain off the 
syrup and reheat and pour over pickles, repeat this process 
for 3 days. Seal. Mrs. H. W. Gibson. 



CORN PICKLE. 
10 cups corn cut from cob, 10 cups cabbage chopped fine, 
6 red peppers (large). Heat together, \ gal. vinegar, 2 tbs. 
salt, 3 cups sugar, \ lb. ground mustard. Pour over cabbage 
and corn and let stand on back of stove and cook slowly for a 
short time. Then put in jars. Will keep unsealed for a 
long time. Mrs. John F. Willis. 

163 



CUCUMBER JELLY SALAD. 
Equal parts of cucumber and pineapple sliced. Make 
a lemon jelly, when cold add cucumbers and pineapple and 
pour into molds. Serve with mayonnaise dressing on 
lettuce leaf. Louise Burnwell. 



CHICAGO HOT (A RELISH.) 
1 pk. ripe tomatoes chopped fine and drain in sieve for 
3 hours, 2 cups celery (chopped fine), 2 cups onions (chopped 
fine), 2 cups white sugar, 4 cups vinegar, | cup salt, J cup 
white mustard seed, 4 large red peppers (chopped fine), 4 
large green peppers (chopped fine). Mix all, but do not 
cook. Add a little horse radish roo to each jar as a pre- 
servative. Do not seal. Cook and seal the tomato juice 
for soups. Mrs. Ernest E. Wanous. 



FRENCH PICKLE. 
1 peck green tomatoes, 6 onions, 6 green peppers chopped 
fine, 1 cup salt, let stand over night, in morning drain off 
brine, add 2 qts. water and 1 cup vinegar, boil 20 minutes 
and drain well through a colander, then take a little more 
than 2 qts. of vinegar, 1| lbs. sugar, \ lb. white mustard seed, 
1 tbs. cloves, 1 tbs. cinnamon, boil well 20 minutes. 

Mrs. John F. Willis. 

164 



HODGE PODGE. 
Chop equal portions \ peck each of sweet white 
cabbage, green tomatoes, green cucumbers and celery, 3 
large green peppers, very fine. Mix all together, salt heavily, 
let stand 3 or 4 hours, or over night. To every 3 qts. of this 
add 1 qt. chopped onions. Prepare onions thus: chop fine, 
salt heavily, pour boiling water over them, let stand till cool, 
squeeze out and add to the above. Drain and pack all to- 
gether in a stone jar. Pour cold vinegar over to cover. 
Let stand 24 hours, squeeze out with hand until dry and take 
enough fresh vinegar to cover pickles, 2 oz. celery seed, 2 oz. 
mustard seed, 1 oz. whole cloves, 1 oz. whole allspice. When 
vinegar boils add pickle and boil not over 15 minutes, slowly, 
Pack in jars and tie up. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 



CUCUMBER PICKLES. 
1 gal. vinegar, 1 teacup sugar, 1 teacup salt, 1 teacup 
ground mustard. Mix the sugar, salt and mustard together, 
then put in the vinegar, this will cover 200 cucumbers, put 
in large jar and cover with plate. Mrs. Moreau. 



OIL PICKLES. 
2 doz. medium sized cucumbers, slice very thin, put into 
bottles as soon as you slice them, sprinkle generously with 
mustard, celery, and whole pepper seeds and a little salt. 
Put into cans with vinegar and olive oil, f cup of oil to a 
qt. of vinegar. Always shake the bottle before dishing 
them for the table. Mrs. Albert Schaller, 

165 



SALAD PICKLES. 
1 qt. chopped cucumbers (seeded but not peeled), 1 qt. 
onions, 2 qts. cabbage, 4 green peppers, chopped, \ lb, ground 
mustard, 1 cup flour, 3 cups white sugar, 1 tsp. tumeric 
(level), 3 tbs. white mustard seed, 1 tbs. celery seed. Let 
chopped materials stand over night covered with water and 
1 cup of salt. In the morning scald up and then drain 
thoroughly. Take 1 pt. of vinegar and make a paste of 
flour, tumeric and ground mustard. Scald 5 cups of vinegar 
and 1 cup of water. Add sugar, celery and mustard seed. 
Stir in the paste until it thickens. Remove from the fire 
and add the chopped materials, f of an ordinary cabbage, 
lj qts. onions before chopping and 5 medium sized cucum- 
bers will make the right amount of the materials necessary. 

Mrs. Emmet T. White. 

COLD TOMATO CATSUP. 
1J pts. vinegar, \ cup salt, 2 roots horse-radish, \ cup of 
dark and light mustard seed, 2 tsp. black pepper, 1 oz. celery 
seed, 1 onion (cut fine), 1 tsp. cloves (ground), 1 tsp. mace 
(ground), 2 tsp. cinnamon (ground), 1 cup sugar, 2 green 
peppers (chopped), \ peck (ripe) tomatoes (peeled and seeds 
and juice taken out) , chopped. Mix. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 
Vinegar 3 qts., little white onions 2 qts., 2 heads cauli- 
flower or more, ground mustard J lb., tumeric powder \ 
oz., green peppers 6, sugar 3 cups, flour 1 small cup, 2 qts. 
little pickles, beans if wanted. Boil cauliflower and onions 
a little, cut all up, sprinkle 1 cup salt over all, then pour 
over boiling water, drain off next morning. Mix mustard 
and tumeric powder in a little vinegar, mix flour with water, 
then put all together, with the vinegar, and boil, stirring well, 
then pour boiling hot over pickles. Mrs. Geo. H. Crosby. 

166 



RUMMAGE. 
2 qts. green tomatoes, 1 qt. ripe tomatoes, 1 small cab- 
bage, 1 ripe cucumber, 2 bunches celery, 3 large onions, 3 
green peppers, 3 red peppers, 3 pts. vinegar, 2 lbs. moist brown 
sugar, 1 tsp. dry mustard. Chop together and let stand 
over night with \ cup salt, then cook until clear. 

Mrs. H. L. Wakefield. 



PICKLES. 
Wash cucumbers, midget size, fill mason jar and add 1 
tbs. salt, 1 tbs. sugar, 1 tbs. white mustard seed, a tiny red 
pepper, horseradish root if you have it, cover with white 
wine vinegar and seal. Mrs. William Moorhead. 



PEPPER HASH. 
\\ doz. green peppers, 1 large head of cabbage, \ doz. 
large onions. Remove the seeds from half the peppers, then 
chop skins with other half. Chop other ingredients. Mix 
\ cup salt in above and let stand over night. Drain well 
and add 2 cups sugar, f cup white mustard seed, 1 tbs. celery 
seed. Pour cold vinegar over all and then add 1 qt. more 
than will cover. Mrs. H. G. Swirles. 



TOMATO RELISH. 
1 pk. ripe tomatoes chopped fine, pressed over night, 2 
cups chopped celery, 1 cup white mustard seed, 1 cup grated 
horse radish, 2 cups sugar, 8 peppers, 4 red and 4 green 
ones, 1 small cup salt, 2 cups chopped onions, 2 tbs. mixed 
spices, ground, 2 cups vinegar added the last thing. Will 
keep without sealing. Mrs. W. J. Moorhead. 

167 



HORSE RADISH PICKLES. 
Small size cucumbers, soak in salt brine 48 hours. Drain, 
wipe dry with cloth. Pack in stone jar, 1 layer of cu- 
cumbers, 1 of horse radish root, alternating until jar is filled, 
put in 2 green peppers. If 1 peck of cucumbers is used, heat 
white wine vinegar to boiling point, pour over pickles. 
Ready for use in a few days. 



PREPARED MUSTARD. 
1 tbs. flour, 3 tbs. dry mustard, 1 tbs. sugar (small), 
1 tsp. salt, pour boiling water over the mixture and stir until 
perfectly smooth, when cold add enough vinegar to thin. 
If kept in a covered jar this will keep indefinitely. 

Mrs. W. A. Mather. 



DILL PICKLES. 
Select small cucumbers, 1 pk. Soak over night in cold 
water. Take 1 gal. of white wine vinegar. Boil and cool. 
Have this ready the night before. In the morning change 
the water on the pickles, take a stiff vegetable brush and 
brush every one thoroughly, then put into fresh water. 
Now drain. Have ready qt. jars and fill them with the 
pickles, putting them together according to size. Add to 
each jar a piece of white gingerroot, 1 of horse radish root, 
1 heaping tbs. salt, 1 large head of dill and 3 or 4 young grape 
leaves. When bottles are well filled pour about 2-3 full of 
vinegar and fill up with boiled, cooled, water. Seal. Set 
away a few weeks before using. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 

168 



RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 
1 pk. ripe tomatoes, 1 cup chopped celery, 3 red peppers, 
6 medium sized onions, 2 lbs. brown sugar, 1 cup salt, 1 cup 
English mustard seed, 1 qt. vinegar, 2 oz. ground cinnamon. 
Chop tomatoes and drain in colander, pressing out juice with 
a plate. Chop onions and peppers very fine. Mix all 
thoroughly and fill jars. Mrs. William H. Norton. 



MARY'S CUCUMBER PICKLES. 
100 good cucumbers, medium size, 2 onions, \ lb. 
black mustard seed, J lb. white mustard seed, 2 tbs. celery 
seed, | pt. olive oil (scant measure), enough vinegar to cover 
about 6 qts., slice cucumbers and onions quite thin, sprinkle 
about J pt. salt between each layer and let stand over night. 
Drain and wash. Mix the seeds with the oil, add vinegar, 
then pour over the cucumbers and onions. Keep in a cool 
place, this will make about 3 gal. Ready to use in about a 
week. Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 



OLIVE OIL PICKLES. 
50 small cucumbers, 3 pts. small onions sliced, 1 oz. 
mustard seed, 1 oz. celery seed, J oz. white pepper ground 
fine. \ pt. olive oil. Cut onions, cover with cold water for 
three hours. Cut cucumbers very thin, add 1 cup salt; let 
stand three hours, drain and mix well together, cover with 
cider vinegar, let stand over night and bottle. 

Mrs. J. R. Hughs. 

169 



MUSTARD PICKLES. 
2 qts. cucumbers cut up, 1 qt. small onions, 1 qt. chopped 
green tomatoes, 1 large cauliflower (cut up), 4 green peppers 
(chopped). Soak this 24 hours in brine strong enough to 
float an egg. Scald, drain. Add § cup flour, 4 tbs. mustard, 
1 tbs. tumeric and enough cold vinegar to make a smooth 
paste, 1 cup sugar, 1 tbs. celery seed, enough vinegar to 
make 2 qts. Scald all together. Mrs. R. L. Stillman. 



SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES. 
Select cucumbers of a uniform size. Place in stone jar 
in layers with salt between layers of cucumbers. Cover the 
top layer entirely with salt, fill jar with cold water, cover 
with plate and weight to keep cucumbers under water. 
Leave for a fortnight. Stir brine from bottom every other 
day. Fresh cucumbers may be added anytime. When 
ready to put through last process throw away brine. Ex- 
amine cucumbers, excluding soft ones. Fill jar with fresh 
water and let stand for 24 hours. Line preserving kettle 
with grape leaves, pack cucumbers in, sprinkle 1 tsp. powdered 
alum over each layer. Cover with 3 thicknesses of grape 
leaves. Cover with cold water, simmer (but not boil) for 
4 hours. Cucumbers should be fine green (not broken). 
Drop into ice water immediately, let stay while you prepare 
vinegar for preserving them. To each qt. vinegar add 1 
cup brown sugar, 1 doz. whole peppers, 6 whole cloves, boil 
together 5 minutes. Drain cucumbers, pack in jar, pour hot 
vinegar over them. Repeat scalding 3 times, allowing 
several days between. Cover with a tight place plate 
on top to keep cucumbers under vinegar. Tie wax paper on 
top. Let stand 2 months before using. Good for years. 

Mrs. F. Guderian. 

170 



CHILI SAUCE. 
Chop fine, 12 large ripe tomatoes, 2 green peppers and 
2 onions. Add 2 tbs. each of salt, vinegar and sugar, 1 tbs. 
cinnamon and a little ground cloves. Boil 1 hour and 
bottle. Mrs. Fred H. Boardman. 

CRANBERRY CATSUP. 
To 1 qt. of cranberries take 1 cup of water and 2 cups 
vinegar. Tie in a piece of muslin a few cloves, 3 or 4 all- 
spice, about a dessertspoon of broken cinnamon, and some 
mace. Simmer all together in a preserving kettle until the 
fruit is perfectly soft. Press through a colander, add 1 lb. 
brown sugar, simmer 10 minutes longer, and seal. Grape 
catsup is made the same way. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 
36 ripe cucumbers, peel, seed, and chop fine. 6 or 8 
white onions, 1 cup salt. Let stand six hours, drain all 
night, add 1 cup mustard seed and § cup peppers (chopped) . 
Fill jar 2-3 full of cucumbers and fill with cold vinegar and 
seal. Mrs. C. H. Burwell. 



171 



Candies 

"Sweets to the sweet.'' 1 — Shakespeare. 

MARSHMALLOW FUDGE. 
| lb. light brown sugar, f cup cream, \ lb. chocolate, \ 
tsp. vanilla. Boil 20 minutes, stirring briskly. Just as it 
is taken from the fire fold lightly in the fudge J lb. of marsh- 
mallows, which has been cut into halves. Pour into shallow 
tins and cool. When cutting marshmallows wet scissors 
to prevent sticking. Mrs. W. A. Mather. 

GRILLED NUTS. 
1 cup granulated sugar, \ cup boiling water. Boil until 
it threads from spoon. Remove from fire. Pour into syrup 
1 cup walnut meats and stir until cold. 

HONIED POPCORN. 
Boil strained honey for a few minutes and pour over 
popped corn and make into balls. 

Mrs. Thomas M. Partridge. 

FRENCH CREAM. 
White of 1 egg, \ tsp. cold water, 1 tsp. vanilla extract, 
1 lb. 4x sugar. Mix white of egg, water and vanilla, beat 
until thoroughly mixed, then add gradually the sifted 
sugar to the liquid until mixture is stiff enough to knead. 
This cream may be used instead of cream fondant for such 
things as cream walnuts, dates, figs, etc. 

John T. Garland. 

172 



TURKISH NOUGAT. 
2 cups white sugar, 1 cup corn syrup, f cup chopped 
nuts, 2 whites of eggs, \ tsp. vanilla. Boil 3 first ingredients 
until hard ball can be formed when material is dropped into 
cold water. Then pour the syrup gradually into the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs. Beat whole mass until creamy. 
Add nut meats and pour out into buttered tins to cool. 

John T. Garland. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 
2 cups white sugar, } tsp. cream tartar, 1 cup water, 
pinch salt. Cook till material cracks when dropped in cold 
water, add butter size of egg, stir till melted, take off fire 
and pour into buttered pan. For larger batch use pro- 
portionate amounts of materials. John T. Garland. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 
2 cups sugar, 1 cup molasses, \ cup chocolate, 2-3 cup 
milk, butter size of an egg, as many nuts as you desire. 

Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 

DELIGHT. 
2 cups sugar, § cup corn syrup, 1 tsp. vanilla extract, § 
cup water. Boil till threads. Add to 2 beaten whites of 
eggs, beat like boiled icing, add nuts and cool, cut in squares. 

Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 

FUDGE. 
2 cups sugar, 2-3 cup rich milk, 1 tbs. butter, \ cake 
chocolate. Stir while cooking. Cook until it forms a soft 
ball in cold water. Beat until it stiffens, and pour in 
buttered tins to cool. Mrs. F. A. Hanscom. 

173 



SALTED ALMONDS. 
Blanch by pouring boiling water over the almonds and 
allowing them to stand for a few minutes, when the skins 
may be easily removed. Boil for 15 minutes in a strong 
solution of water and salt, then remove and dry. Put J 
cup of olive oil in a small frying pan. When hot add part 
of the almonds and fry until a delicate brown, stirring con- 
stantly to keep the almonds in motion. Remove and drain 
on brown paper. 

BITTER SWEETS. 
2 cups sugar, \\ cups milk or enough to make creamy. 
Cook until it forms a soft ball in water. Then beat until 
creamy. Form into balls and cool. Then dip in melted 
chocolate. Gladys Pease. 



174 



ALFALFA 

AS A HUMAN FOOD AND MEDICINE. 

For many years, the common plant, Alfalfa, has been 
propagated for its highly nutritious properties as a stock 
food. Its further value as a human food was not known until 
about three years ago when Mark C. Rich and F. W. Bower, 
residing in the Black Hills of Western South Dakota, in their 
own families, discovered its human food elements. A series 
of experiments was carried on by these men to find the best 
methods of growing, cutting and curing the plant for its new 
use. In the past three years, it has been thoroughly tried 
out by the best food experts in the land for its food qualities 
and by many of the best known physicians for its medicinal 
values. 

These experiments, together with many chemical analyses 
of the different manufactured products, proved satisfactorily 
that the original discoveries had great value. The Alfalfa 
Foods and Medicine Company, of Minneapolis, which was 
organized later by these two men, is the first organization 
to manufacture a full line of these human foods (drinks) and 
medicines from Alfalfa. They are delicious and beneficial 
to the health and have a distinct taste and flavor. They 
are more nutritious than any other food. 

The Alfa-Lusa extract for flavoring soda drinks, ice 
cream, cakes, candies, etc., is delicious, healthful and popular. 
The table syrup resembles maple in taste and is a very 
healthful syrup. The candies flavored with this extract, are 
excellent for children because the alfalfa partly breaks up 
the sugar granules and assists in digesting the candy. 

The flour and other products for making bread and pastry 
are in a class by themselves. 

The Alfalfa tea and coffee is being used constantly by all 
who have heard of it because of their flavor and beneficial 
qualities. When used for a short time, the skin becomes 
clearer, and " tired feeling is chased away." Any of the 
Alfalfa human foods will produce natural sleep and will 
adjust the body for health. 

175 



Drinks 

"Eat, drink and be merry" — Shakespeare. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SHAKE. 

4 sq. Baker's chocolate, 4 tsp. sugar, 4 cups milk. Put 
the chocolate in a small kettle and melt. Add the sugar 
and mix well. Then put in the milk heated. Let the 
mixture come to a boil, stirring all the time with an 
egg beater. Put 1 tsp. whipped cream in a cup. Pour over 
the hot chocolate and serve. This mixture is not injured by 
standing. If it becomes cold reheat and stir with the beater. 

Louise Burwell. 

SARATOGA COOLER. 
8 cups cold water, 8 tsp. sugar, juice 4 lemons, 1 pt. 
ginger ale. Mix the lemon juice and sugar thoroughly, add 
the water and chill. Just before serving pour in the ginger 
ale and add cracked ice. For this beverage the lemonade 
should not be too sweet. Mrs. O. K. Earle. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING ROOT BEER. 

5 cakes Yeast, 3 tbs. sugar, 1 pt. lukewarm water, 1 
bottle Root Beer Extract, 5 gal. pure fresh water, slightly 
lukewarm, 4 lbs. sugar. Dissolve 5 cakes of Yeast and 3 tbs. 
sugar in a pt. of lukewarm water. Keep in a warm place 
for 12 hours, then stir well and strain through cheese-cloth. 
Add bottle of Root Beer Extract, 4 lbs. sugar and 5 gals, 
of lukewarm water. Mix thoroughly and bottle. (Tie or 
fasten in corks.) Keep in warm place about 48 hours. 
After cooling it is ready for use. Keep in cellar or place of 
low temperature. 

176 



ICED TEA. 

4 tsp. black tea, 4 cups cold water. Stir into the water 
the tea. Let stand 5 or 6 hours. Strain and serve in glasses 
with sugar, lemon and cracked ice. This is an excellent 
way to make tea for picnics. The tea, water and sugar may- 
be put in glass jar sealed and carried with a lunch. 

Mrs. Charles H. Burwell. 



DANDELION WINE. 

4 qts. dandelion flowers, 4 qts. water, grated rind of 2 
oranges, grated rind of 1 lemon. Boil 20 minutes, strain 
and to the juice add 3J lbs. granulated sugar, let cool, and 
when lukewarm add \ cake of yeast, slice in the 2 oranges, 
without any seeds. Let stand 3 or 4 days, then bottle but 
do not cork tight. Mrs. William Gawne. 



PINEAPPLE FRAPPE. 
Boil 3 cups sugar and 1 cup water until it strings from 
the tip of a spoon. Pour this syrup upon the beaten whites 
of 3 eggs and beat to a smooth cream. To this add a can 
of grated pineapple and as much cream and milk as will 
make the quantity you require. Let it get cold and freeze. 

Percy (Louisville, Ky.). 

DANDELION WINE. 
Steep dandelion flowers in boiling water for ten minutes 
and strain off the liquid, pressing hard through a cheese-cloth 
bag. Sweeten to taste and add brandy in the proportion of a 
pint to every four gallons of liquid. Put into uncorked 
bottles and keep in a cool place, covering the mouths of the 
bottles with mosquito netting to exclude insects and dust. 
When fermentation ceases, draw off, strain and bottle. 

177 



GRAPE JUICE. 
Pick grapes off stems (Concord are best) just cover with 
cold water, let boil until skins come off, strain through 
flannel bag. Add 1 cup sugar to 1 qt. juice. Let boil and 
seal hot. Mrs. R. W Cranston. 



ELDERBERRY WINE. 

Is made of the blossom of the plant, and exactly as dan- 
delion wine is made, or you may brew it of the berries, as 
you would cherry wine or that made from currants. This is 
highly medicinal and less pleasant of flavor than that made 
from the blossoms. 



FRUIT PUNCH. 
Squeeze the juice from a can of grated pineapple, 6 
lemons and 3 oranges. Strain all together into a bowl. 
Add a pt. jar of preserved cherries and 1 of strawberries. 
Sweeten to taste and let stand 3 hours. When ready to 
serve add 2 qts. of ice water and a qt. of pounded ice. Serve 
in glasses. You may add a bottle of good claret. Apolli- 
naris may be substituted for water. Mrs. T. F. Quinby. 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil a pt. of sugar and 2 qts. of water for 10 minutes 
and set away to cool, for lemonade is always better when 
sugar and water is boiled in a syrup. To this add § pt. of 
lemon juice, 1 pt. of strawberry juice, and small pineapple 
grated or 1 can of grated pineapple. When ready to serve 
put in a little cracked ice, some whole strawberries and slices 
of lemon. Some red cherries may be substituted for straw- 
berries if you desire. Mrs. William Moorhead. 

178 



FRUIT CUP. 
3 grapefruits, 2 bananas, J lb. of Malaga grapes, 1 tbs. 
preserved ginger, minced fine, 2 doz. maraschino cherries, 
powdered sugar to taste, 1 cup of sherry. Cut the pulp of 
the grapefruits into small pieces, bruising as little as possible. 
Skin the grapes carefully and cut each in half, extracting the 
seeds. Peel and cut the bananas into cubes. With a silver 
fork mix in all the ingredients except the cherries. Fill 
chilled glasses with the mixture, put 3 cherries upon the top 
of each and set in cracked ice until you are ready to serve. 
Then sprinkle with sugar and pour a tsp. of sherry upon 
the sugar. It will wash the sugar into the heart of the 
fruit. 

FRUIT CUP. 

This is arranged in the glasses from which it is to be 
eaten. Put into the bottom of each glass 3 fresh straw- 
berries, \ tsp. grated pineapple, a tsp. each of orange and 
grapefruit pulp, a tsp. lemon juice, § as much syrup from 
preserved ginger, 6 ripe raspberries or a tsp. raspberry juice, 
and sift powdered sugar over all. Finally lay 3 maraschino 
cherries on the top of each portion. Fill glasses, set in 
crushed ice until you are ready to serve. 

RHUBARB WINE. 
Wash the stalks of rhubarb well and cut into bits, letting 
each piece fall into cold water as you cut it off. Add no 
water, but put the rhubarb, dripping wet, into a double 
boiler and set in the outer vessel filled with cold water. 
Cover closely and bring to a boil. When soft and broken, 
strain through a cheese-cloth bag and measure the juice. 
Add as much water as you have juice, sweeten to taste and 
allow a cup of brandy to each gallon of liquid. Bottle and 
seal. Stand the bottles upside down in sand. 

179 



ICE TEA PUNCH. 
6 tsp. tea, 1 qt. water. Steep, strain and cool. \ cup 
granulated sugar, 6 tbs. lemon juice, 1 lemon and 1 orange 
sliced thin, 1 qt. strawberries, 2 cups pulverized ice, 1 
bunch fresh mint dusted with powdered sugar for garnish. 
Add apollinaris water when ready to serve. 

Mrs. Thomas M. Partridge. 

FRUIT PUNCH. 
Slice 6 oranges and 6 lemons, after paring them carefully. 
Cut a medium-sized pineapple into dice. Cut a pint of 
strawberries into halves, add to them a pt. of red rasp- 
berries. Mix with the other fruit, strewing each layer with 
granulated sugar — 2 cups in all. Let all stand together 30 
minutes before pouring in three qts. of apollinaris or other 
effervescent water. If you like, you may use clear spring 
water. It will do nearly as well. Put a great lump of ice 
into a chilled bowl and pour this mixture over it. Taste 
before serving, and if it is not sweet enough, add sugar. 
This is enough for 30 persons. Fine ! 

GRAPEFRUIT CUP. 
Halve 4 grapefruits and take out the pulp skillfully with- 
out tearing the rind. Cut the pulp into small cubes, freeing 
it from membranes and strings. With a sharp knife, a pair 
of scissors or a notching board notch the edges of the halves 
of the rind, then refill them with this mixture: Small ripe 
berries — raspberries or strawberries — Malaga grapes, 
skinned, seeded and halved, and the cubes of grapefruit. 
Strew powdered sugar over each layer as you work. When 
all are in lay maraschino cherries (or preserved cherries or 
strawberries, if you prefer) upon the top of the filled cup. 
Set in ice until it is to be served. 

180 



WILD GRAPE WINE. 
Pick grapes from stems, mash them and put them through 
wine press or jelly bag. Then add as much water as you 
have grape juice, pour the water through the pressed grapes 
and press the second time. To each gallon of liquid take 
2 J lbs. sugar, be sure to dissolve sugar in boiling water 
before adding to the juice or it will harden in the keg. Then 
let it ferment. When fermentation has ceased the cask 
may be closed. It must be kept open during fermentation. 
It can be bottled any time after it is settled. 

Mrs. Albertina Kramer. 

CURRANT WINE. 

2 cases currants, 30 lbs. sugar. Crush currants and let 
stand 24 hours. There should be 3| gallons of juice. 
Then strain through double cheese cloth. After the juice 
is squeezed out of the currants cover the pulp with water, 
let cook 20 minutes, strain through cheese cloth. Take 
liquid from pulp and place on fire, add sugar, leave on fire 
until sugar is melted. Take from fire, let cool. Then add 
the melted sugar to the juice and place all in a cask, and 
fill it with soft water. Keep the cask full so the sediments 
will run out. Add water every two or three hours for a 
week or so. Then set away for a month and fill up cask every 
day or so. Afterwards draw off wine in a clean cask, as the 
wine is better standing in wood. Bottle it if you desire. 

Ambrose A. Guiwits. 

NE PLUS ULTRA PUNCH. 
1 cup granulated sugar, juice 6 lemons. Stir until dis- 
solved, then put in 3 peeled lemons sliced thin and put on 
ice until ready to serve. Then add 1 qt. powdered ice, 1 
doz. sprigs mint. Stir well for a minute and add from a 
height 5 bottles of ginger ale, \ bottle red cherries. This is 
also called "Temperance Punch." Mrs.M.G.Rodearmel. 

181 



CAFE NOIR (Black Coffee). 
2 cups coffee, 1 egg, 1| cup cold water, 6 cups boiling 
water, \ cup cold water. Mix coffee egg (crushed shell) and 
\ cup cold water. Pour on boiling water and boil five 
minutes. Set on back of stove and add \ cup cold water and 
settle for 5 minutes. Serve hot. Mrs. C. Burwell. 

"Better late than never." 



SAUCES FOR FISH AND MEATS. 

Appropriate sauces for serving with— 
Roast Beef: — Tomato Catsup, or Grated Horseradish. 
Roast Mutton : — Stewed Gooseberries. 
Roast Lamb: — Mint Sauce. 
Roast Pork: — Apple Sauce. 
Roast Turkey:— Cranberry or Celery, or Plum or Grape 

Sauce. 
Roast Chicken: — Currant Jelly. 
Boiled Turkey: — Oyster Sauce. 
Broiled Steak: — Mushrooms or Fried Onions. 
Pigeon Pie: — Mushroom Sauce. 
Roast Goose: — Apple Sauce. 
Fried Salmon: — Egg Sauce. 
Broiled Mackerel : — Stewed Gooseberries. 
Boiled or Baked Fish:— White Cream Sauce, or Drawn 

Butter Sauce. 

WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES. 
First year, cotton; 2nd year, paper; 3d year, leather; 
5th year, wooden; 7th year, woolen; 10th year, tin; 12th 
year, silk and linen; 15th year, crystal; 20th year, china; 
25th year, silver; 30th year, pearl; 40th year, ruby; 50th 
year, golden; 75th year, diamond. 

182 



PROPER WINES TO SERVE AT A FORMAL DINNER. 

With a first course serve a sauterne, slightly cold. 

With the soup serve sherry slightly cold in decanters. 

With fish serve Rhine wine rather cold in bottle. 

With entrees serve claret slightly cold in decanters. 

With meats and pultry serve champagne, very cold in the 

bottle. 
Champagne should be placed on ice several hours before 

serving. 
With game serve burgundy and champagne. 
With dessert serve port wine or maderia even temperature, 

in the bottle. 
With coffee serve cordials and brandies from small decanters. 



BIRTH-MONTH GEMS. 
Month Gem Flower 

January Garnet — Constancy Wild Rose 

February Amethyst — Contentment Pink 

March Bloodstone — Courage Violet 

April Diamond — Innocence Easter Lily 

May Emerald — Success in love. . . .Lily-of -the- Valley 

June Pearl — Purity Rose 

July Ruby — Nobility of mind Daisy 

August Moonstone — Conjugal felicity Pond Lily 

September. . . Sapphire — Chastity Poppy 

October Opal — Hope Cosmos 

November. . .Topaz — Fidelity Chrysanthemum 

December . . . Turquoise — Success and Happiness Holly 

183 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

4 teaspoonfuls of a liquid equal 1 tablespoonful. 

4 tablespoonfuls of a liquid equal | gill or \ cup. 

f cup equals 1 gill. 

2 gills equal 1 cup. 

2 cups equal 1 pint. 

2 pints (4 cups) equal 1 quart. 

4 cups of flour equal 1 pound or 1 quart. 

2 cups of butter, solid, equal 1 pound. 

\ cup of butter, solid, equals \ pound, 4 ounces. 

2 cups of granulated sugar equal 1 pound. 

2\ cups of powdered sugar equal 1 pound. 

1 pint of milk or water equals 1 pound. 

1 pint chopped meat equals 1 pound. 
10 eggs, shelled equal 1 pound. 

8 eggs with shells equal 1 pound. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter equal 1 ounce. 

2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar equal 1 ounee. 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour equal 1 ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of coffee equal 1 ounce. 

1 tablespoonful of liquid equals § ounce. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter equal 2 ounces or \ cup. 



ABBREVIATIONS USED. 

tsp. — teaspoon. 

tbs. — tablespoon. 

All measurements are level. 

"All's well that ends well." — Shakespeare. 

184 



BACK TO QUALITY 




If After all, the one big point in an electric 
automobile is QUALITY. You can't dodge it, 
whether you are a user or a maker. That's why 
the thinking buyer buys a 

WOODS ELECTRIC 

^ His mind goes straight back to QUALITY — 
and lands him in a " WOODS." The new Models 
are beauties; come and see them. 

"If you love your wife, give her a Woods." 

THE OWL ELECTRIC GARAGE 

2315 Hennepin Ave, South 777 

DISTRIBUTORS FOK THE NORTHWEST Calhoun 73 1 



Contents 

Page 

Index to advertisers 1 

Soups 9 

Fish and sauces 16 

Poultry and meats 26 

Vegetables 45 

Salads and dressings 58 

Cheese dishes 70 

Sandwiches 72 

Bread, rolls, etc 76 

Cakes, icings and fillings 90 

Cookies, doughnuts, etc 110 

Puddings and sauces 121 

Frozen desserts and ices 140 

Egg dishes 146 

Pies 149 

Preserved fruits and vegetables 155 

Pickles and catsups 163 

Candies 172 

Drinks 176 

Table of sauces appropriate for serving; with 

meat and fish 182 

Wedding anniversaries 182 

Proper wines to serve 183 

Birth-month gems and flowers 183 

Table of weights and measures 184 

Abbreviations 184 

186 



Our Work Speaks for Itself 

The best test is 
the test of time 
Established 1877 




AlUEXANDBa GROSS»IR.VtNOH.ROBITSHEK » ALLEN M. CR^S 



All orders given prompt attention. 
Mail orders solicited. 



Write for our FREE INFORMATION BOOKLET 



RECEIPTS 



188 



PILLSBURYS 

BEST — 

FLOUR— maw ;, > 




THE BEST— 
SSySCE WHEAT 
WAS EIRST SOWN 



R17CT 























RECEIPTS 



190 




The finest scenic resort in the North- 
west. Equals if not exceeds the 
Hudson or the Rhine. On beauti- 
ful Lake Pepin {a widening of the 
Mississippi). ReachedbyC. M. & St. 
P.R.R. and Mississippi River boats. 



For Particulars Address 

Gelestine M.Schaller 

Owner and Manager 
Frontenac - Minnesota 



Mis 



RECEIPTS 



192 




ALWAYS ASK FOR 

"QUAKER" 

DAIRY PRODUCTS 

if you want the best Milk, Cream and 
Butter, delivered at your door, from the 
most Sanitary Creamery in theNorthwest. 
Ask for "QUAKER" Ice Cream, the 
Velvet Kind, if you want the purest and 
best. We handle Gran's Spirit Hill Dairy 
Certified and Inspected Milk for your 
Babies, approved by the American Med- 
ical Association 



K6e 



QUAKER CREAMERY CO. 



COLFAX AND 
WESTERN AVES. 



RECEIPTS 



194 



(4 



The Best Place 



To Buy Shoes" 




MINNEAPOLIS. 



Shoe Mart, 623-625 Nicollet Ave. 

Minneapolis, : : : Minnesota 











d@*lfl 1 






Ice Crea 
Punches- 

Indiv 
LAT 

222 N 


tm — Ices — Sherbets — Frozen Puc 
— Frappes — Mousses — Frangos — N. 

idual Forms for Family, Party, Banquet 1 
Ask for Our Family List 

Phones 
T. S. 165 Vic. 2144 

HROP ICE CREAM COMPi 

orth Fifth Street Minne 


Idings — 
Meringues 

frade 

ysrv 

apolls 



RECEIPTS 



196 



SANTO WHITE LILY 

Vacuum Cleaners Electric Washers 



FRIES-PATTERSON CO. 

Solving the Servant Problem 

= with = 

HOUSEHOLD LABOR-SA VING DEVICES 



18 North Seventh Street 
Adjoining Shubert Theatre 

J U D D SIMPLEX 

Electric Washers Ironing Machines 



CHAPMAN^ 

CREAMS and ICES CANDIES 

FROZEN PUDDINGS SALADS, etc. 

MERINGUES FLAVORS 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE CANDLES 

CAKE PAPER DOILIES 

TABLE DECORATIONS 

The largest and most complete assortment 
of Candle Shades in the Northwest. 



R. M. Chapman - Basting Co. 

929-933 Nicollet Av. :: Minneapolis 



RECEIPTS 



198 



An Important Part of Your Grocery Order 




la the Economical 10 

cent packasr3 
Delightful for ser- 
vice with 6oups, salads, luncheons- 
and unexcelled as a delicious article of 
food for every meal. Economical as 
well — for you get more and better crackers than 
in any two five cent packages. Made in the 
world's lightest, mcst sanitary bakery. Buy 
tnis and the other dainty biscuit and wafers 
bearing the Sanitary Factory Seal — your guarantee of supreme purity and goodness. 



C. W. and M. A. DORSETT 
CATERERS 



(£* l|£* *7* «£• ^» «£• 

Ml NNE APOL1S 

Special Attention 
Given to Club Affairs 



T. S. W. 51 



138 HOLDEN ST. 

N. W. Main 2296 



DOWNTOWN OFFICE 40 So. 8th 

T. S. C. 4828 N. W. Main 1473 



RECEIPTS 



200 



ORNES, ESSWEIN & CO. n>*-i°3 n. sixth st. 

. V ' * MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 

Northwestern Agents for McCray Refrigerators 

REFRIGERATORS FOR ALL PURPOSES 




The "Wholesome 

BAKING POWDER 



f* 



means Rumford, the one that adds nutritious 
value to the food; that makes the cake, 
biscuit, and muffins not only lighter and of 
finer texture than when other baking powders 
are used, but makes them more wholesome 
and easily digested. 

To make baking day a success, 
at a reasonable cost, use 

Rumford Baking Powder 

======= Does Not Contain Alum ■ 



RECEIPTS 



202 




EDISON (Diamond Point) 

PHONOGRAPHS 

Both DISC and CYLINDER 

THE PERFECT SOUND-REPRODUCING INSTRUMENT 

CLEAREST TONE 

LONGEST PLAYING RECORDS 

LONGEST WEARING RECORDS 

PERMANENT DIAMOND POINT 

(NO NEEDLES TO CHANGE) 



MINNESOTA PHONOGRAPH CO. 

LAURENCE H. LUCKER 

5J5 First Avenue So. Minneapolis, Minn. 

"THE LARGEST PHONOGRAPH HOUSE IN THE NORTHWEST' 



RECEIPTS 



204 



QVALITy ^/fPTAHEL ^/I/tV 

FA3-R/CS FO'R WOME/f 

yiJVD MISSES 

Beautiful Silks, Handsome Dress Fabrics, Perfect Fitting 
and Durable Gloves and Hoisery, Dainty Undermuslins, 
Exclusive Millinery, Distinctive Styles in Women's and 
Misses' Suits, Coats, etc. 
Smart, up-to-the-minute Haberdashery for Men. 

JShe 
P^eliable 

JVICOLLET AT BIGHT ST. MIJ* ffE ATOlsIS 
^/lll matt orders attended to promptly 




RECEIPTS 



2M 



Che Plymouth 

MERCHANTS OF FINE CLOTHES 

Directs Special Attention 
to Its Unusual Display of 

APPAREL for WOMEN 
Including the better grades 
of Suits, Coats, Dresses, Fur 
Garments, Fur Sets, Milli- 
nery, Gloves, Shoes, Cor- 
sets, Lingerie, Waists, 
Hosiery, etc. 

tin Plymouth 

Hennepin at Sixth 

:: MINNEAPOLIS :: 



Are You 

Particular 

About 




HOLSTAQ'S 




rXoFFEE^F 

BEST QUALITY- MOST ECONOMICAL 

^ORECUPSTOTHE-POUW 



Your 
Coffee? 

TF you are, you are just the person we are looking for. We hke 
x to cater to particular people. We are confident that 

Holstad's "A" Coffee 35c lb. 

will please you. Particular coffee drinkers everywhere are 

showing their preference for this brand. More Cups to the 

Pound Less Cost Per Cup. Comes in 1 lb. Sanitary Packages. 

Your Grocer Has It. Ask Him! 



RECEIPTS 



208 



—NEW STANDARD— 

Food Choppers 

OPENS LIKE A BOOK 

CLEANED INSTANTLY SANITAIRE 




Chops Everything in Food Products 

TWENTY-FIVE SIZES 

NEW STANDARD 

Hardware Works 



Mount Joy, Pa., U. S. A. 



RECEIPTS 



OCT 13 1918 



THE OLIVE HAIR STORE 

The Most Up-to-date Hair Dressing 
Store in the Northwest 



Visit Our Beautiful Palm Room and Have Your Nails Well 

Manicured. Musical Progam Every Friday 

and Saturday from 3 to 5 p. m. 



LADIES' TURKISH BATHS 



824 Nicollet Avenue N. W. Phone Nic. 1620 

MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 



American Tent and Awning Co. 

C. M. RAWITZER, Prop. 

Tents and Awnings, Paul- 
ins, Wagon Covers, Horse 
Covers and Blankets, Auto 
Covers, Water Bags, Can- 
vas Aprons and Bags, 
Sleeping Porch Curtains, 
Canoe and Auto Tents, 
Cotton and Roll Duck, 
Lawn Folding Furniture, 
Cow Covers and Blankets. 
Umbrellas, Waterproof Covers, 




Feed Bags, Oiled Clothing, Sails, 
Lambing Tents. 



Flags, 



TENTS FOR RENT 



Both Phones Number 1662 

18=20 West Third Street 
ST. PAUL, MINN. 



Both Phones Number 777 

307-309=31 1 Wash Ave.N. 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 



