s 






RELIABLE 
COOK BOOK 

By MKb CHAS. F. PARSONS 



Wyr 










tX 



IOWA'S LARGEST 
CLOTHING STORE 

is ready to serve you better than 
any other store in the Middle West 

More Standard Lines 

Larger Assortments 

Better Service 

HART, SCHAFFNER & MARX CLOTHES 

MANHATTAN SHIRTS 

STETSON HATS 

MUNSING UNDERWEAR 

Our entire second floor devoted 

exclusively to Boys' and Chil- 
dren's Goods and Athletic Goods 



MAIL ORDERS SOLICITED 



ARMSTRONG- 
McCLENAHAN COMPANY 

CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA 



RELIABLE. 



COOK BOOK 




TRILD AND 
APPROVED 



RFXI PES 



OF 

MRS. CHA5. F. PARSONS 

OF 

CLDAR RAPID5, IOWA 



1913 



~T~xn 15 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AM) MEASURES. ^ 

Win re tablespoons or teaspoons are not given as level or heaping full, they 
are to be rounding full. * * * A saltspoon is equal to *4 teaspoon 
rounding full. 

1 quart sifti d flour well heaped weighs 1 pound 

3 coffee cups sifted flour. 1 vol " 1 

lips sifter flour, level 1 

1 pint soft butter, well packed " 1 

1 1=3 pints powdered sugar " 1 

2 coffee cups powdered sugar, level 1 

2% teacups powdered sugar, level 1 

1V 2 coffee cups granulated sugar, level 1 

2 teacups granulated sugar, level 1 

1% coffee cups Coffee "A" sugar, level " 1 

2 teacups Coffee "A" sugar, well heaped 1 

1 % cups best brown sugar, level " 1 

2% coffee cups Indian meal, level equal 1 quart 

3% teacups Indian meal, level " 1 

1 tablespoon well heaped granulated, Coffee "A" or best brown 

SU g ar weighs 1 oz. 

2 tablespoons well rounded powdered sugar or flour 1 

1 tablespoon well rounded soft butter 1 

Soft butter size of an egg " 2 

3 tablespoons sweet chocolate, grated 1 

LIQUID MEASURES. 

16 tablespoons equal % pint 

1 wine glass, (common size) " 4 tablespoons 

1 wine glass, (common size) " 2 fluid ozs. 

4 teacups " 1 quart 

A common sized tumbler holds about Vz pint 

1 teacup equals 8 fluid oz. or 2 gills. 

TIME TABLE F()K COOKING VEGETABLES. 



Old potato-es; boiled.. .. 30 niin. 
New potatoes, boiled.... 25 

Potatoes, '-baked 45 

Sw< et potato* s, boiled. . 45 
Sweet potatoes, baked. . 60 
Summer squash, boiled. 25 
Winter squash, boiled. . . 40 to 45 niin. 

Green peas 40 niin. 

Shelled beans 60 " 

Green corn 10 to 20 niin. 

Asparagus 30 niin. 



Spinach 10 to 15 min. 

Tomatoes, fresh 60 min. 

Tonjatoes, canned 30 " 

Cauliflower 10 to 15 min. 

Onions 45 to 50 " 

Turnips 45 to 60 " 

Carrots 45 to 60 " 

Parsnips 45 to 60 

Cabbage 1 to iy 2 hrs. 

Beets 1 to 2 

Oyster plant 30 min. 



©CI.A346777 
2t.r l 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



5oups 



SOUP STOCK, No. 1. 

Beefs' Liver, size of teacup, j Carrots, I cup, 

Beef anrl Bones, 5 pounds, | Turnip, 1 " 
Shin Bone of Veal, 2 pounds, | Celery, ^> " 

Old Chicken, 1, I Onion, l.~ 

Butter, 2 tablespoons, | Bay Leaves, 4, 

Salt, 1 tablespoon, | Cloves, 6, 
Pepper, y 2 teaspoon. 

Have the butcher break the bones; put- them in soup kettle 
and add enough clear water to cover; stew on back part of range 
and as scum rises, skim it off; then cover and let boil slowly, just 
bubbling at one side for 8 hours; place butter in frying pan and 
let melt; add turnip, onion, carrots and celery, all sliced, put on 
the cover and let cook 15 minutes; remove cover and stir until 
a light brown ; turn into a stew kettle and add all the other sea- 
soning; cook slowly 2 hours longer; if the water cooks out too 
much, add a little more; remove and strain through a sieve; pour 
a little water over the meats to rinse off all the good there is; 
set by until morning; there should be 5 or 6 quarts; skim off all 
the fat for drippings; keep in a cool place, this is the basis of all 
meat soups. 

Take out a portion according to the number to be served. 
This makes a nice rich soup stock. If too rich, add hot water 
until the required strength is obtained. Then put in anything 
that you wish, noodles, soup balls, rice, barley, macaroni or 
vegetables. These should be previously cooked in stew pan in 
clear water. (Cooking the soup long enough to cook the vege- 
tables spoils the flavor, i Then add to the soup or serve it plain 
with croutons in each dish when served. If a plainer soup is de- 
sired and one that will keep longer, omit the vegetables but use 
the other seasoning. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



SOUP STOCK. No. 2. 

A very economical stock or soup for one or two dinners can 
be made thus. When you have roast beef, after using for din- 
ner, slice off whatever is nice cold, then put the bones and scraps 
into a kettle and cover with cold water: add any other bones or 
bits of veal, mutton or chicken, and the bones from beef steak, 
veal or lamb chops, cooked or raw; let these cook slowly 4 or 5 
hours, then strain; when cold, skim off all the fat; return to 
kettle and ln-at. adding a little parsley, celery or onion and any 
of the ingredients given for soups, or use it for puree of peas or 
tomatoes. The expense is simply nothing if you have a fire for 
other purposes, and makes a delicious soup. Do not salt any 
soup until you are through skimming ir as the salt will stop 
the scum from rising. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

If canned asparagus is used, open can on side, turn out on 
platter and cut off tips about 2 inches long. 

If fresh asparagus is used, cook in cold water, cul off tips 
and proceed as with canned. 

Asparagus, 1 can or L ( bunches. Salt. 1 teaspoon, 

Chicken Stock, 1 quart. Swee( Cream, 1 cup. 

Water, I quart. Butter, y 2 cup, 

White Pepper, a dash. Flour, 3 tablesp's round ? g full. 

.Melt butter in granite kettle, add flour and stir until 
smooth; pour in water and stock, having first heated them, add 
iragus without tips, salt and pepper; cook y 2 hour; strain 
through a sieve rubbing all thai will go through; return to ket- 
tle and add cream and asparagus tips; if too thick, add a little 
more cream or milk before serving. 

BARLEY SOUP. 

Wash 1 cup pearl barley and put to cook in 1 quart cold 

water; cook until tender which will take about 2 hours; add 1 
quart simp stock and enough hot water to make 3 quarts in all: 
season to taste. Broth may be used instead of soup stork, pro- 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



ceeding same as in bean soup (see recipe) except add barley in- 
stead of beans. 

BEAN SOUP. 
Put on to cook in cold water a medium sized soup bone or 
bones and beef; simmer slowly for 3 or 4 hours adding 1 tea- 
spoon salt; drain through sieve and return broth to kettle; add 
1 tablespoon flour, wet smooth with cold water and a little pep- 
per. There should now be about 3 quarts. Add 1 pint small, 
white beans previously cooked soft in cold water; if too thick, 
add hot water until of the right consistency. Soup stock made 
for other soups will do for this soup. If beans are soaked over 
night they will cook soft in 1 hour. 

BEEF BOUILLON. 

Cut in small pieces 4 pounds lean beef; place in kettle, 
cover with cold water, stand on top of range for a while and 
then put it where it will simmer slowly that all the juice may 
be drawn out; put 1 tablespoon butter in frying pan, and when 
melted put in i o cup chopped celery, y 2 cup sliced carrots, stir 
and fry until a nice brown ; when your beef has simmered 2 
hours add this to the kettle, also 3 bay leaves and 6 cloves. Let 
all cook another hour and then strain through a wire sieve or 
cheese cloth wrung out of hot water. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve hot with crisp wafers. 

CHICKEN BOUILLON. 

When cooking chicken for salad, creamed or minced 
chicken, a very good bouillon can be made of the broth. 

Fry until brown in 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon chopped 
carrot, 2 tablespoons celery and 1 /- 2 teaspoon onion and add to 2 
quarts of the broth with 4 cloves, 2 bay leaves, and simmer slowly 
1 hour. Salt and pepper to taste. Serve. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Old chickens are better for soup, hens are best. 

Cut up, wash and put on to boil in cold water early in the 
morning; simmer rather than boil, adding a little salt. When 
tender enough to fall from the bones, strain, return to kettle and 



KE LIABLE COOK BOOK. 



stir in noodles (see recipe) with ' - cup or more of chopped 
celery or 2 sprigs parsley and salt and pepper to taste. 

Anot her way is to prepare the broth as above and then add l 2 
cup rice previously cooked lender in (dear water, add celery or 
parsley and salt and pepper to taste. Serve with crackers or 
croutons. 

CONSOMME. 

Knuckle of Veal, 1. Carrots. 2 tablespoons, 

Soup Bone of Beef, 2 pounds, Celery, 1! " 

Chicken Carcass, bones ami Onion. 1 

bits left from dinner. Butter, 2 

Parsley, 1 sprig, Salt. 1 level 

Bay Leaves. 2, Pepper corns, 1 teaspoon. 

.Mace. 1 blade, < Jloves, 4. 

Put meats on to cook in 4 quarts cold water on the back of 
the range so the juices will he drawn out; after about 1 hour 
sel nearer the front where it will simmer or bubble on one side 
and cook .*? hours longer; remove, strain and set by to cool; skim 
off the fat 1 to lie saved and fried out for drippings), return soup 
to the kettle to heat. Put butter in frying pan and add carrots, 
celery and onion chopped; cover and let fry about 20 minutes; 
take off cover and stir tint il light brown and turn into soup; add 
other seasoning except salt; cook ' ._. hour, add salt and strain. 
Serve wit h croutons. 

00KX SOUP. 

Corn, 1 quart, Putter. 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Milk, 1 quart, Flour, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Water, 1 pint. Salt, to taste, 

< Jream, 1 cup. Pepper, to taste. 

Cut corn from cob by cutting half way through grain and 
then scrape off balance with knife; add water to corn and cook 
15 or 20 minutes; add milk, then butter and flour previously 
creamed together, salt, pepper and cream. Great care must he 
used t<> prevent scorching, ('aimed corn may he prepared in 
same wav. 



RELIABLE COOK P.OOK. 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Wash and cut in i.{> inch pieces enough celery to fill a pint 
cup; cook in cold water until tender, not too soft; in another 
stew pan place 1-3 cup butter; when melted add 2 tablespoons 
flour stirring until smooth; add 1 quart hot chicken stock stir- 
ring thoroughly; add celery and 1 pint sweet cream, salt and 
pepper to taste. If too thick, add a little milk or water. Serve 
with croutons, about 8 dropped on top of each dish of soup. 

SOUP DUMPLINGS. 

1 heaping - tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon drippings; 
beat for fully 10 minutes: add 1 beaten egg, 3 heaping table- 
spoons flour and a little salt and nutmeg. Mix and make into 
little balls and drop in the sou]). 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Break in inch length pieces macaroni, enough to fill coffee 
cup; cook in clear water until tender; have 2 or more quarts 
of strained soup, same as for bean soup, or soup stock; add 
macaroni, salt and pepper to taste, and a sprig of parsley, or a 
piece of celery, or half an onion chopped fine, whichever flavor 
is best liked. 11' stock is used that is flavored, no other flavoring 
is necessary. 

NOODLE SOUP. 

Break 1 egg in a bowl, beat light, then add flour to make 
it very stiff, that is, a smuch as can be worked up to make a 
hard, smooth lump; divide in half, roll each piece as thin as pos- 
sible and lay on a board to dry, an hour or longer; dnst with 
flour and cul in strips; lay in a pile, one on top of the other; 
with a sharp knife, cut as thin as you can; shake them apart if 
they stick together, using a little flour. 

Prepare and strain soup, about 2 quarts, as for bean soup, 
or use souj) stock. With one hand drop in noodles, stirring 
with the other; let come to a boil, remove and serve. 

This quantity will serve 6 persons; if more is wanted, use l! 

eggs. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



OYSTER SOUP. 

Place in double boiler 2 quarts milk, or if preferred, use 
part water; in a stew pan melt 1 heaping tablespoon butter 
and 1 tablespoon a little heaping <»f flour; stir until foamy, 
not brown, then dip in this some of the hot milk, stirring until 
smooth; pour out into the boiler with the milk; stir thoroughly; 
remove to the back of the range; with the hand take 1 quart of 
oysters from their liquor, removing any shells; put the liquor 
with y 2 cup water on to cook; when boiled, skim, then add the 
oysters and salt and pepper to taste; cook 10 seconds or until 
tiie edges curl; pour them into the milk in the boiler; stir and 
serve immediately with crackers and celery. 

OXTAIL SOUP. 

Cut 1 oxtail into joints and fry brown in good drippings; 
slice 3 onions and 2 carrots and fry in the same drippings when 
the pieces of oxtail have been taken out; place the above in soup 
pot containing 4 quarts cold water; add 2 lbs. lean beef cut into 
strips; add 1 tablespoon parsley and 1 tablespoon thyme; boil 
slowly 4 hours ami strain; thicken with 2 tablespoons browned 
flour wet smooth with cold water. Salt and pepper to taste. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Pare and cut in dice enough potatoes to make about 1 quart; 
cook until just tender; turn off the water and add 3 pints milk; 
when hot, stir in a good • 2 cup browned flour, salt and pepper to 
taste. Serve hot. 

To brown the flour, place in spider j - tablespoon butter and 
2 tablespoons flour; stir until a nice brown. It will be in small 
lumps but is nicer for soups than if browned in oven. 

CREAMED TOMATO SOUP. 

Tomatoes, 1 can or equal in | Salt, 1 teaspoon, 

fresh tomatoes, | Milk, 3 pints, 

Soda, 1 teaspoon a little heap-| Flour, 4 heaping tablespoons, 

ing, | Butter, 2 heaping tablespoons. 

Place milk in double boiler; when hot stir in the flour wet 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 9 

smooth with a little cold milk ; rub tomatoes through a sieve and 
place in another kettle cooking 5 minutes ; add soda and let cook 
a little longer; pour tomatoes in the milk and add butter and 
salt, stir thoroughly and serve hot. If fresh tomatoes are used, 
cook first and then rub through a sieve. 

TOMATO SOUP WITH ONIONS. 

Slice 2 onions and fry them in 1 tablespoon butter until 
brown ; remove and fry 1 dozen tomatoes just sufficient to heat 
them through ; then put them into a stew pan with their gravy 
and the onions; add 1 stick of celery and 1 carrot sliced; stew ^ 
hour; add 3 pints stock or gravy and stew y 2 hour; rub through 
a sieve and season with salt and pepper. Serve with croutons. 

TOMATO PUREE. 

Place in kettle 2 quarts of peeled, ripe tomatoes sliced, (or 
2 cans) and 1 quart of rich soup stock; cook slowly 1 hour; 
then strain through a sieve and return to kettle; season with 
salt and pepper to taste; if too thick, add hot water. Puree 
should be thick. Serve with crisp wafers. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Pare and chop fine, 1 turnip, 2 carrots, 1 potato, piece of 
cabbage as large as a pint cup and 1 onion; cook until tender in 
cold water. In another kettle have a strong soup prepared (same 
as for bean soup) or use soup stock. Turn 'in the vegetables and 
add 2 sticks of celery cut fine, salt and pepper to taste and cook 
10 minutes. 



10 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Breads Rolls and Sandwiches 



NOTE ON KKEAD. 



The success iii making good bread depends chiefly on good 
flour, good yeast and good care. Compressed Yeast raises quicker 
than dry yeast l>nt must be fresh. As it is delivered fresh every 
morning to the dealers, they should always supply yon with such. 
It is hest to have the quantity yon need cut from the bar as it is 
always fresher than the packages in tin foil as they are apt to 
he stale. If it is soft or sticky, or turning black, reject it. It 
should he a creamy while and rather firm. If Yeast Foam or 
other dry yeast is used, soak soft in 1 pint warm water and then 
add flour enough to form ;i soft hatter. Let stand over night 
and then proceed same as with Compressed Yeast. It can he 
used in the morning by soaking soft in warm water hut it will 
take a little longer for the bread to raise. If home-made yeast of 
any kind is used, the recipe for Potato Yeast given in this hook 
is fine. Proceed the same way. allowing 1 pint for 4 loaves of 
bread. Always remember it is not economy to use poor flour. It 
takes more to mix the bread stiff enough, requires more care 
and patience, and is more apt to go to waste in the end. I'se 
good, winter wheal flour. If a cheap flour must he used, peel 
and boil 2 or 3 potatoes, mash fine and add a little sweet milk. 
When just warm, mix the bread measuring this potato mixture 
and leave out the same quantity of water and proceed the same 
way as recipe given below. Add more flour if needed. 

The next step, do not scald your bread. Have the water to 
soak the yeast and mix the bread warm hut cool enough to hold 
your finger in it comfortably, then instead of placing near the 
stove or on warming oven or reservoir, put it over a pan of warm 
water and cover closely. II will raise faster than any other way. 
If scalded in any stage of the process it will not raise, neither 
can it he remedied after it is done. Follow the directions closely 
and you will have perfed bread. If you fail at first, try again. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 11 



Practice will soon enable you to do it just right. In cold 
weather, warm the flour in the oven, then sift it. Always sift 
flour before using it. If you wish to bake 2 loaves of bread, or 
1 loaf and a tin of biscuit for small family, use 2 cents worth 
compressed yeast or 1 teacup home-made yeast. If dry yeast is 
u -c(l, follow directions on package and use half the quantity 
flour and other ingredients given in recipe for 4 loaves, adding 
more flour if needed to mix to required stiffness. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Peel and grate 8 large potatoes into 2 quarts of cold water, 
then add 1 cup of flour wet to a smooth paste with cold water; 
set this on the stove and cook 10 minutes until thoroughly boil- 
ing, stirring occasionally to prevent burning; while cooking add 
1 cup of white or light brown sugar, 1 cup of salt, 2 teaspoons of 
ginger; remove from the stove and when cold stir in 1 yeast cake 
soaked in a little warm water (compressed yeast will not do). 
Pour in a large jar to raise; let ferment 2 days and then put in 
fruit jars. In summer set in the refrigerator; it will keep 2 
months. Use 1 large cup for 3 loaves of bread; makes delicious 
bread or rolls. 

BREAD. 

Flour, 4 quarts, I Sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Water, 1 quart, | Sinclair's Fidelity Lard, 1 

Compressed Yeast, 4c worth, tablespoon. 

Salt, V 2 tablespoon. 

Early in the morning sift flour into your breadpan; push 
it to one side and pour the water in, having it just warm; then 
add sugar, lard, Sinclair's Fidelity, and salt, and mix this all 
through the water; then add yeast previously soaked in 1/2 ( ' U P 
warm water; mix the ingredients all together, work in a little of 
the flour to form a batter; take about 5 mlinutes to do this; then 
begin to work in the rest of the flour until you have it all in or 
until it seems stiff enough, so it is not sticky. < >f some it requires 
more and of some less flour to make a medium stiff dough. Take 
out on tin 1 board without any crumbs, kneading it 15 or 20 min- 
utes. Dredge the board with flour during the process. When 
you have it in a smooth lump so it does no1 stick to the board 



12 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

much if any, rub your bread pan out clean so not to have any 
flour or crumbs in it, grease it with Sinclair's Fidelity Lard, lay 
in the dough, cover, and place pan over another tin containing 
warm, not hot, water. Let raise until light, or twice the original 
size, about 2 hours. Then work it down either in the pau or 
taking it out on the board. Grease the pan again avd let it 
raise, then repeat once more. It will come up very quickly the 
last 2 times. Then take it out on the board, divide into 4 loaves, 
make each piece into a smooth, long or round loaf, put in greased 
pans and let raise on the table this time, unless in very cold 
weather, then set in warme rplace. Remember no more flour 
is to be used after it is mixed the first time only to dust the 
board. When loaves are 1-3 larger than when made, wet them 
over the top with the hand dipped in cold water and set in to 
I »akc. The oven should be cool at first, increasing the heat after 
the bread has been in about 10 minutes. Bake about 3-4 hour. If 
1 loaf is wanted to use fresh, bake it a little longer. Turn out, 
-ivase the top with butter and lay on the bread board without 
covering until cold. Bread made in this way will prove very 
sweet and nutritious. The object is to have it raise light and 
yel to arrest the fermentation the last time of raising, as it is 
finer grained and better bread and whiter than when allowed to 
gel so Light and placed in a hot oven. This formula is not as 
much trouble or as long as it seems. The bread can be baked by 
noon or before in warm weather. 

This recipe makes 4 good sized loaves. 

BROWN BREAD No. 1. 

Corn Meal, 2 cups, \ Sweet Milk, 3 cups, 

Graham Flour, 1 cup, j Molasses, 2-3 cup. 

Wheat Flour, 1 cup, | Salt, y 2 teaspoon, 

Baking Powder, 2 heaping teaspoons. 

Stir all of the ingredients together and steam 3 hours; 
brown in the oven l.~> or 20 minutes. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 13 



BROWN BREAD No. 2. 

Sweet Milk 1 pint, | Molasses, y 2 cup, 

Corn Meal, j Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Compressed Yeast, 2c worth, j Wheat Flour. 

Scald the milk, then thicken it with enough corn meal to 
make it about like mush, then add all of the other ingredients, 
using enough flour to make a medium soft dough. 

Steam 1 hour, then bake y 2 hour; if preferred, use y 2 cup 
of Soft Yeast instead of the Compressed Yeast. 

BROWN BREAD No. 3. 

Graham Flour, 3 cups, | Molasses, 1 cup, 

Com Meal, 3 cups, | Soda, 1 heaping teaspoon, 

Sweet Milk, 2 cups, I Baking Powder, 2 heaping tea- 

Sour Milk, 2 cups, spoons, 

Salt, 1 level teaspoon. 

Dissolve the soda in the sour milk, then add all of the other 
ingredients;. steam 3y 2 or 4 hours; brown in the oven 20 or 30 
minutes. All of the Brown Breads are nice steamed in lib bak- 
ing powder cans. Grease them, fill about half full of the dough 
and set in steamer. 

COFFEE BREAD. 

For the sponge take 1 pint of milk and \y 2 pints flour and 
3 cents worth compressed yeast or its equivalent. In the evening 
warm the milk to blood heat, stir in the flour and beat until it 
is a smooth batter. Then add the yeast, previously soaked in y 2 
cup warm water. Let raise over night. In the morning sift in 
a pan 3 pints of flour, make a hole in the middle and put in the 
sponge. Add 1 cup sugar, y 2 cup soft butter, 1 level teaspoon 
salt and the yolks of 2 eggs. With the hand mix the ingredients 
all together, then work in the flour, kneading into a smooth 
lump without any crumbs. Of some binds of flour you will have 
to use a little more. If it sticks and seems too soft, add a little 
more flour. Take out on the bread board bat not until it is 
a smooth lump and knead about 10 minutes. Place in a crock or 
pan to raise. When it is twice the original size, divide in 4 parts 



14 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



;iikI roll out to U/2 inch thickness. Lay in a greased pan, rub 
melted butter over the top, strew with sugar and cinnamon to 
taste, and raise. When light, or as thick again as when rolled, 
bake in a moderate oven 25 to 30 minutes. Turn out but do not 
cover until cold. Do not get the oven too hot as it burns quicker 
than bread. This quantity makes 3 cakes in dee]) pie tins and 1 
long one. It is very nice. 

If a plainer bread is desired, use less butter and sugar. 

CORN BEEAD. 

Sour Buttermilk, 1 ' •_> pints, Flour, 1 tea cup, 

Sugar, 2 heaping tablespoons, | Soda, 1 teaspoon, 

Eggs, 2, J Salt, Y 2 teaspoon, 

Fine Yellow Corn Meal. 

Beal sugar and eggs together, add milk, then the soda which 
iias been dissolved in a little hot water, then add the other in- 
gredients, using enough corn meal to form a rather soft batter. 
Bake about ' 2 hour in a square pan in a quick oven. This is very 
nice and will serve 8 persons. If sour milk is used, which is not 
as rich, add 2 tablespoons of Melted Butter or Drippings. If you 
prefer sweet milk, make just the same, add the Butter and 2 
heaping teaspoons of Baking Powder, instead of the Soda. If 
desired, yon can use 2 or 3 Yolks ,,f Eggs, instead of the 2 whole 
eggs. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Wain i Wat ei-. 1 quart, ; Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Wheat Flour, Soda, ' -> level teaspoon, 

( Nnn pressed Yeast, lc worth, Molasses, y 2 cup, 

Graham Flour. 

Make a sponge with the warm water and enough wheat 
flour to make a rather thin hatter, add the yeast and let raise 
over night. In the morning, add the rest of the ingredients, dis- 
solving the soda in the molasses and using enough Graham Flour 
to make it as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon. Put in a 3 
(i nail greased pan, or 2 small pans and set in a warm place to 
raise; when raised to the top of the pan, hake about 1 hour in a 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 15 

moderate oven. When done, rub a little butter over the top. 
This is easily made and very nutritious. You can reserve enough 
sponge when making Wheat Bread to make a loaf of Graham. 
Sift all Graham Flour or Meal, as the very coarse husks that 
remain in the sieve are not good for the stomach. If desired, y> 
cup of Soft Yeast may be used instead of the Compressed Yeast. 

OATMEAL BEEAD. 

Oatmeal Mush, 1 pint, | Water, 1 cup, 

Wheat Flour, 4 cups, | Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup, | Compressed Yeast, 2c worth. 

Cook oatmeal as you would to serve for breakfast, then 
measure. Stir together all of the ingredients and let raise over 
night. In the morning, add enough flour to make it as stiff as 
can be stirred. Put in greased pans and when very light bake 
in a pretty hot oven ; bake longer than Wheat Bread. If desired, 
use the equivalent in Soft Yeast instead of Compressed Yeast. 

RYE BREAD. 

White Flour, 1 quart, | Molasses, y 4 pint, 

Rye Flour, 2y> quarts, | Salt, 1 tablespoon, a little 

Corn Meal, 2-3 pint, heaping, 

Water, 3 pints, | Compressed Yeast, 2c worth. 

First make a sponge by warming iy 2 pints of the water, 
then sift in the white flour and add the yeast (previously soaked 
in a little warm water), beat to a smooth batter and set in a pan 
of warm water to raise until light, Then put the other V/ 2 
pints of the water in a stew pan en the stove and when boiling 
stir in the corn meal just as you would for mush ; let cook a few 
minutes, then pour in the pan you mix bread in. When cool 
enough so it will not scald the sponge add the molasses, salt and 
sponge and mix all together, then add the rye flour and mix 
thoroughly. It will be sticky but do not add any more flour. 
Place it in 2 deep, 2 quart greased pans, press down smooth over 
the top with your hand dipped in water, then set on table to 
raise (in cold weather near the stove) ; when light or pans are 
nearly full, bake in moderate oven 1 hour and 10 minutes. 



16 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Turn out and rub the top with butter. Bread set in the 
morning will be baked by noon. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 

White Flour, iy 2 quarts, | Salt, 1 level tablespoon, 

Whole Wheat Flour, iy 2 qts., j Sugar. 2 heaping tablespoons, 
Water, 1 quart, | Compressed Yeast, 2c worth. 

Warm the water and place in crock or pan, then sift in the 
white flour and beal until free from lumps; add yeast (prev- 
iously soaked in a little warm water), sugar, salt and stir 
thoroughly, then set it in another pan of warm water to raise 
until light (about 2 hours), then sift in the whole wheat flour 
stirring with a spoon at first, then knead with the hands. It will 
be softer than white bread. When all the flour is worked in 
and it is a smooth lump of dough, rub your dish free from 
crumbs, put in your dough and set it back in the warm water 
and let raise until light (l 1 /^ or 2 hours) ; then divide in 2 loaves, 
place in deep greased pans and let raise on the table this time or 
in cold weather near the stove. When pans are nearly full or it 
seems light, place in moderate oven and bake 1 hour. 

Turn out and rub the top with a little butter but do not 
cover until cool. This is very nice and nutritious. 

POCKET BOOKS. 

Flour, 4i/> pints, | Sugar, y 2 cup, 

Milk, 1 pint, | Soft Butter, i/ 2 CU P> 

Compressed V east, 2c worth, | Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Make a sponge as follows: Scald the milk, let cool, then add 
1 ' 2 pints of the flour and st ir until it is a smooth batter; add the 
yeast which has been previously soaked in 1/2 CU P warm water, 
cover and lei raise until light. Then sift into a pan the rest of 
the flour, make a hole in the center and put in the sugar, butter, 
suit, and pour in the sponge; with the hand mix all together, 
then work in the flour gradually until it is a medium stiff 
dough, take out on the board and knead until smooth, dusting 
with flour as much as is necessary to prevent sticking too much. 
Place in a greased crock, set in a pan of warm water, cover 



RELIABLE TOOK BOOK. 17 



and let raise; it will be light in a shorl time. Then take part 
of the dough at a time on the board, roll out to 1 ' ' 2 inch thick- 
ness, cut with a large biscuit cutter, spread thinly with butter 
and turn ! •_. over the other. As they raise they present the ap- 
pearance of pocket books. Bake from 20 to 30 minutes in a med- 
ium hot oven. Eat warm or cold. This makes 30 pocket hooks. 

PICNIC ROLLS. 

Flour, .">i_, pints, | Sugar, 1 small teacup, 

Milk, 1 pint, j Butter, y 2 teacup, 

Compressed Yeast, 2c worth, j Warm Water, 1 teacup, 
Salt, 1 level teaspoon. . 

.Make a sponge as follows: Scald the milk, let cool, then 
sift in iy 2 pints of the flour and beat until it is a smooth batter, 
then add the yeast previously dissolved in y 2 cup warm water; 
let raise over night if wished to hake early, if not, set in the morn- 
ing. Then sift into a pan the rest of the flour, reserving 1 cup 
of this to use in kneading. Make a hole in the center of the 
flour, put in sugar, butter, the cup of warm water and salt; 
with your hand mix these ingredients together, then pour iu the 
sponge and mix thoroughly; work in the flour until all is in and 
it is a smooth lump. 

Take out on hoard and knead 10 minutes; using of the flour 
you set aside as much as needed to make a medium stiff dough. 
Place in a greased crock, cover and let raise until double its 
former size, then make in long rolls about as long as your finger 
and twice as thick, using a little flour to keep from .sticking. 
Place close together in long pans; let raise until 1-3 larger than 
they were, no more, then wet the top with the hand dipped in 
cold water. Bake in a moderate oven 30 or 35 minutes, then 
turn out of pan and grease the top with butter. Do not cover. 
This makes 40 rolls. 

LIGHT BISCUIT. 

When you are baking bread and want a tin of biscuit for 
dinner, pinch off a piece of dough after it has risen the third 
time. Form in small round biscuits, place in greased pan not 
very close together, as many as you need. Brush the top with 



18 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

melted butter, set in a warm place to raise until very light. Bake 
30 minutes. Turn out and cover to keep warm and make them 
soft. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

Flour, 3 pints, | Baking Powder, 3 heaping tea- 

Sinclair's Fidelity Lard, V2 cll P>| spoons, 

Sweet Milk. j Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Sift flour and baking powder together, then rub in this the 
lard 1 Sinclair's Fidelity), and salt. Wet up with enough milk 
to form a very soft dough. Flour the board, handle as little as 
possible, roll out, cut and bake about 10 minutes in a hot oven, 
if they are not good it is because you have them too stiff. 



CREAM BISCUIT. 

Flour, 1 quart, | Soda, 1 level teaspoon. 

Thick Sour Cream, 1 pint, | Salt, a little. 

Put the flour in your pan and make a hole in the center. 
1 5cat up the soda in the cream and pour it into the flour, add the 
sail and mix together. If too soft add more flour, just enough to 
enable you to get them into the pan. Cut with small cutter and 
bake quickly. They are delicious. They can be made the same 
way with Sweet Cream and 2 heaping teaspoons of Baking Pow- 
der, insi cad of Sour Cream and Soda. 



GRAHAM GEMS. 

Graham Flour, 2 cups, | Baking Powder, 2 heaping tea- 
Wheat Flour, 1 cup, spoons, 

Egg, 1, j Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Sweel Milk, | Sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Ileal egg, then add the other ingredients using enough milk 
to make a thin batter; beat it well. Fill greased gem pans 2-3 
full and bake in a hot oven 15 or 20 minutes. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 19 



FLOUR GEMS. 

Sweet Milk, 3 cups, | Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Eggs, 3, I Baking Powder, 3 heaping tea- 
Butter, size of an egg, spoons, 

Sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon, | Flour. 

Melt the butter, then stir all of the ingredients together, us- 
ing enough flour to make a soft batter, so it will drop from the 
spoon. Bake in gem pans in a quick oven. 

MUFFINS. 

Eggs, 3, | Sugar, 1 tablespoon, 

Milk, 1 pint, j Butter, 1 tablespoon, 

Flour, Sy 2 cups, | Salt, 1 teaspoon, 

Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Rub the buter in the flour, then add salt, sugar, baking 
powder and half of the milk and heat. Beat the yolks of eggs, 
then add the rest of the milk, then add this to the above mixture. 
Lastly, add the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in muffin rings or 
gem pans. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Boil a good fat hen until very tender. Chop fine and add 4 
hard boiled eggs chopped fine. Season highly with pepper and 
salt. Of the liquor chicken was boiled in make a rich gravy. 
Pour it over the mixture until of the proper consistency. Spread 
upon delicate pieces of buttered bread. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Cut thin slices of bread, and butter lightly. Chop or grind 
cold boiled (Sinclair's Fidelity) ham. Mix with enough mayon- 
naise dressing, or bottle salad dressing to make quite moist and 
spread between layers of bread. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Cut thin slices of bread, and butter lightly. Have fresh, 
crisp lettuce leaves spread with mayonnaise dressing and place 
between layers of bread. 



20 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



PEANUT SANDWICHES. 

Chop fine, roasted peanuts, mix with mayonnaise dressing 
and spread between thin slices of buttered bread. Hickory nuts 
or English walnuts can be used the same way. 

SARDINE SANDWICHES. 

Open a can of sardines. Remove skin and bones. Lay bits 
of the fish on well spread bread aud butter, squeeze lemon juice 
over it and lay slice of buttered bread on top. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES. 

< 'hop cold, boiled tongue very line, moisten with mayon- 
naise or bottled salad dressing and spread between thin slices 
of buttered bread. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 21 



Griddle Cakes and Fritters 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

To 1 quart warm water add enough buckwheat flour to make 
a thin batter, 1 level teaspoon salt and half of a 2 cent cake 
compressed yeast. When wanted for breakfast, make it the 
night before. In the morning add 1 tablespoon molasses and 1 
of water mixed together, and 1 teaspoonful baking powder. If 
the batter seems too dry and thick, add a little warm water. 
Save some of the batter for the next time and add more water 
and flour but no yeast. In the morning add the baking powder 
and molasses, same as at first. If the batter gets sour add 1-2 
teaspoon soda dissolved in a little warm water. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Sour Buttermilk, 1 quart, | Soda, 1 heaping teaspoon, 

Eggs, 2, | Baking Powder, 1 heaping tea- 

Flour, 1 cup, spoon, 

Corn Meal, j Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Sugar, 1 level teaspoon. 

Beat the eggs, then add all the other ingredients. Sift corn 
meal, then stir in enough to make a rather thin batter. Bake 
on a hot griddle and serve with good butter and maple syrup. 
These are very tender and light, unlike most corn meal cakes. 
If they seem ton stiff when baked, add a little milk. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Sour Milk or Buttermilk, 1 qt, | Baking Powder, 1 heaping tea- 
Sour cream, 1 cup, spoon, 

Eggs, 3, | Salt, \ 2 teaspoon, 

Soda, 1 heaping teaspoon, j Flour. 

Do not have cream very rich. Beat yolks of eggs, then add 
the other ingredients, stirring in enough flour to make a batter 



22 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

as for ordinary griddle cakes and beat until smooth. Then add 
the white of eggs beaten to a froth and stir lightly but do not 
beat. Bake on a hot griddle and serve with butter and maple 
syrup. 

FRENCH PANCAKES. 

Flour, 1 quart, | Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Sweet Milk, 1 quart, j Sugar, 1 tablespoon, 

Melted Butter, 1-2 cup, | Compressed Yeast, lc worth. 

Eggs, 2. 

If soft yeast is preferred, use 1-2 cup. Stir flour, milk, but- 
ter, salt and sugar together. Add compressed yeast which has 
been dissolved in a little warm water. If wanted for breakfast 
let rise over night, for luncheon or supper about 3 hours. Then 
add the beaten eggs, beat well and let stand about 20 minutes. 
Bake in a spider or on a griddle in large round cakes. As you 
bake, butter and sprinkle tmgar on each one and roll up or pile 
them several together on a plate and cut down through giving 
each one a portion, or serve with maple syrup. Serve hot. 

WAFFLES. 

Sour Buttermilk, 1 quart, | Salt, 1-2 teaspoon, 
Eggs, 3. | Baking Powder, 1 heaping tea- 

Soda, 1 teaspoon, spoon, 

Flour. 

Beat the yolks of eggs, then add the milk, soda, salt and 
enough sifted flour to make a little thicker than common pan- 
cakes, and beat until smooth. Add baking powder and stir up 
again, then add whites of eggs beaten to a froth, stir gently and 
try in your let and well greased waffle iron. If they stick and 
do not bake nice, add a little more flour. Tf dr} T or hard they 
arc loo still', then add a little more milk. If the milk is not rich, 
1 tablespoon of melted butter should be added. Sour milk can be 
used instead of buttermilk if preferred. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 23 



GREEN CORN FRITTERS. 

Buttermilk, V/ 2 pints, | Baking Powder, 2 heaping tea- 

Corn, 1 pint, spoons, 

Eggs, 2, | Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Flour. 

Take the corn left from dinner, or cook some on the cob, 
• in the kernels through the center, cut from the cob, then scrape 
what will come off easily. If canned corn is used chop fit pretty 
fine. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks, then add milk, salt, 
baking powder and enough flour to make a batter about like ordi- 
nary pancakes, then add the corn ; add the whites of eggs beaten 
stiff and stir them through lightly. Fry in a frying pan in lard 
(Sinclair's Fidelity |, and butter mixed or drippings. Put a large 
spoonful in a place, but do not crowd them or they will not fry 
nice around the edge; add more butter and lard (Sinclair's Fi- 
delity ) , for each spider full you fry, about a tablespoon of each. 
Serve hot with Maple Syrup, or jell. They are delicious and 
make a nice change. The corn can be prepared the night before 
if wanted for breakfast. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Flour, 1 pint, | Baking Powder, 1 heaping 

Sweet Milk, y 2 pint, teaspoon, 

Eggs, 2, | Melted Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Beat the eggs very light, add the milk, then pour part of this 
on the flour, beat until smooth, then add the rest of the milk, 
then the baking powder and butter. Put in the peaches in halves 
or quarters. Drop in spoonfuls, with peach in each one, in hot 
lard (Sinclair's Fidelity), and fry brown like doughnuts. Serve 
warm with jell, syrup or clear sauce. Apples, bannanas, apri- 
cots or pineapple can be used the same. 

PLAIN FRITTERS. 

Eggs, 3, | Baking Powder, 2 heaping tea- 

Sweet Milk, iy 2 cups, spoons, 

Flour. 

Put together the same as Peach Fritters, using enough 



24 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



flour to make a pretty stiff batter. Drop with a tablespoon in 
hot lard, (Sinclair's Fidelity), and fry brown like doughnuts. 
Serve hot with Maple Syrup. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Cooked Rice, 1 quart, | Flour, 2 tablespoons a little 

Eggs, 3, heaping, 

Sugar, 1 level tablespoon, | Salt. 

Do not cook rice too stiff; add a little milk when nearly 
done, the same as you would to serve on the table. If cold rice 
lefi over is used, add a little milk to soften it. and mash up so 
it will not be lumpy. Beat yolks of eggs, add sugar, salt, flour, 
rice, and beat up well ; then add whites of eggs beaten stiff and 
stir them through lightly. Fry the same as Cereu Corn Fritters. 
They are nice for breakfast or supper. 

MOCK OYSTERS. 

Cmiii, 1 quart, | Salt, to suit the taste, 

Eggs, 3, | Pepper, to suit the taste. 

Flour, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

With a sharp knife cut through the grain of nice sweet corn 
lengthwise, scrape the corn from the cob, then measure. Beat 
the eggs very light, then add salt, pepper, flour and corn. Fry 
Hie same as Green Corn Fritters. They resemble oysters in taste 
and looks. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 25 



Meats and Meat 5auces 



ROAST BEEF. 



Never wash roast of beef, lamb, or mutton. Wipe off with 
damp cloth. Place beef in pan dry. Set in hot oven, turn sev- 
eral times so it will sear all over and retain juice. 

For a 2 rib roast, allow 1 hour if liked rare, for 3 ribs, IV2 
hours, and larger ones 2 hours, etc. If wanted done through, 
allow longer time. About 20 minutes before the time is up, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Do not add any water. The fat 
will brown in pan for gravy. When done, take up and set the 
pan on the stove and add 1 or 2 tablespoons flour according to 
size of roast. Stir until smooth and brown. Add hot water 
until ef the right thickness for gravy. 

When carving, cut crosswise of the grain of beef. If not 
salt enough, put a little salt in the juice that runs out in the plat- 
ter and dip it over the slices before helping the plates and you 
will say that it is delicious. 

Adding water to beef while roasting makes fit tough. 

POT ROAST OF BEEF. 

This is a nice way of cooking some of the cheaper cuts of 
beef. Wipe the meat with a cloth wet in warm water. Place it 
in a hot frying pan and sear or brown it all over. This may be 
done in the kettle if tit is large and flat bottomed. Turn it over 
and over until every part is browned. If done in the kettle, add 
about 1 cup water and place kettle where water will keep just 
below the boiling point, gradually bubbling at one side. If 
browned in the spider, put the meat in the kettle and rinse out 
the spider with a cup of water to save all the brown part and 
pour tlrs water on the meat. Add salt and watch the meat very 
carefully that the water does not boil entirely away before meat 
is tender. Let meat brown on both sides. Dish up am 1 make a 
gravy by adding a little flour and hot water. 



26 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



CREAMED BEEF. 

Chip as much dried beef as required. Cook y 2 hour in clear 
water. Drain off the water and pour on milk to cover. Cream 1 
heaping teaspoon, flour and butter each for 1 pint of milk. Stir 
in the meat, If too thick, add more milk. It should be of about 
the consistency of thick cream. 

Nice served with baked potatoes. 

A LA MODE BEEF. 

Bound or Neck of Beef, 6 lbs., | Pepper, V2 teaspoon, 
Salt Pork, (Sinclair's) y 2 lb.,| Salt, 1 level tablespoon, 
Onion, 1, | Vinegar, 2 tablespoons, 

Boiling Water, 2 quarts, | Butter or Drippings, 2 table- 

Bay Leaves, 4, spoons, 

Whole Cloves, 6, j Browned Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Lard the beef with the salt pork (Sinclair's) this is done 
by cutting the pork I Sinclair's) in strips 3 inches long, make an 
incision in the beef with a sharp knife and draw the pork (Sin- 
clair's) through; this will hold the strips in place. Place in a 
smooth bottom iron kettle the butter or drippings. When hot, 
put in the sliced onion and let it fry a minute or two, then lay 
in the meat and let brown, turning and browning on all sides, then 
add the boiling water, bay leaves, cloves, salt, pepper and vine- 
gar; cover and cook slowly 4 hours or until meat is tender; if it 
is young beef it will not take as long. After it has cooked a 
while add more hot water if needed; keep enough water on so it 
will not stew dry until nearly done, then remove cover and stew 
dry. Take up the meat, add the browned flour, or use white flour 
letting it brown in the kettle and stirring the meanwhile, then 
add hot water until it is the right thickness for gravy. Strain 
through a sieve and serve with the meat. The onion may be 
omitted if desired. 

CORNED BEEF AND CABBAGE. 

First procure a piece of corned beef, a rum]) piece or roll. 
Wash in cold water, place in kettle of hot water and set where 
it will just simmer or bubble on one side; conking slowly is the 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 27 

secret of a perfect result ; if allowed to cook fast it will harden 
the fiber and will be almost impossible to cook it tender. Allow 
from 4 to 5 hours for cooking, though longer will not hurt. After 
it has cooked 1 hour, taste the broth and if very salty, pour off 
part of it and add fresh water, keeping it nearly covered with 
water. 

Trim off outer leaves of cabbage and cut in quarters letting 
the heart remain to hold it together. Place in pan of cold water, 
sprinkle salt over it and let stand; this is important as it will 
draw out any bugs or worms that are sometimes between the 
leaves. Drain off some of the broth on the beef into another ket- 
tle, add enough fresh water so it will be just right salt; wash 
the cabbage out of the salt water, place in this kettle, cover and 
cook until tender, allowing 1 hour if new cabbage and longer if 
old. 

Turnips are nice cooked with the cabbage. Pare and cut 
in halves or quarters. They will take nearly as long to cook. 

If potatoes are included, peel and put in y 2 hour before 
cabbage is done. 

Dish the vegetables all together or in separate dishes and 
put the meat on a platter. 

If any meat is left, press it down in a crock and slice cold 
or use it for hash. 

DRAWING FOWLS. 

Have your butcher draw your fowls to roast by what is 
known as the "French method," or show you how. It is done 
by pushing the skin of the neck back as far as possible, then cut- 
ting off the neck and laying it aside to be cooked with the giblets. 
The skin can then be stretched to admit the hand and work out 
the craw through this opening. Be sure to get it all out. Draw 
the body of the bird in the ordinary manner. Wash out both 
openings very clean and wipe dry, and then stuff middling full 
of dressing. Tie the end of the neck with a cord. A little prac- 
tice will soon make perfect. Fowls treated in this manner pre- 
sent a much finer appearance than when drawn in the ordinary 
manner and sewed up. 



28 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut up and wash a spring chicken and lay in salt water for 
a short time. When ready to fry, take out on a cloth, dry and roll 
in flour. Have equal parts of butter and lard (Sinclair's Fidel- 
ity i or drippings in frying pan. Place the pieces close together. 
Season with salt and pepper; cover close. When brown, turn 
and brown on the other side. When both sides are brown, add 
2 or 3 tablespoons hot water and again cover. The steam makes 
it tender. When all water is cooked out, uncover. As soon as 
brown and crisp dish up. Add 1 heaping tablespoon flour to the 
spider and stir a few minutes; add milk enough to make the 
gravy of the right consistency, salt and pepper to taste; serve in 
gravy boat. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut up and wash a fat hen, stew until tender; add sal! to 
taste. Make a gravy by adding flour wet smooth with cold 
water. Be careful not to have it lumpy. Have more gravy than 
yon would if served as slewed chicken; pour out in a dish or 
granite pan. Add pepper to taste. 

Make a crust like baking powder biscuit, only richer, allow- 
ing 3 teaspoons baking powder and a good V2 CU P l ar d (Sin- 
clair's Fidelity 1 to 1 quart flour, and 1 level teaspoon salt. Mix 
and roll out until about ' L . inch thick; cut in squares, placing 
some under the pieces of chicken, some around the edges and 
over the top; hake about ( •_. hour. In this way it can be served 
better than when crust is in one piece. If preferred the chicken 
may be removed from the bones. 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Prepare the same as turkey allowing 1 or iy 2 hours to roast, 
according to the size of fowl, removing cover in time to brown. 
Serve with spiced currants, gooseberries or jelly. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 29 



CREAMED CHICKEN. 



Chicken, 1 pint, 
Milk, 1 pint, 
Mushrooms, i{» can, 
Butter, 1 tablespoon, 
Flour, 1 tablespoon, 



Salt, to taste, 
Pepper, to taste, 
Cayenne Pepper, 1 pinch, 
Onion Juice, a few drops, 
Lemon Juice, 1 teaspoon. 



Cook chicken until quite tender with salt to taste. While 
warm, pick from the bones and cut in small pieces. Heat the 
milk in a double boiler. In another stew pan melt the butter, 
add the flour, stir until smooth but do not brown, add the hot 
milk, then the chicken to which you have previously added the 
other ingredients and stir altogether. Cook the mushrooms 10 
minutes then add them to the chicken. Serve hot in Swedish 
Timbals or in Patties the same as oysters, or on slices of toast. 
Chicken left over from a meal is very nice used in this way. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

Chicken, 1, | Salt, to taste, 

Chicken Broth, 1 quart, | Pepper, to taste, 

Gelatine, :: j box, | Chopped Parsley, 1 tablespoon 

Cold Water, j Hard Boiled Eggs. 

Boil a 3 or 4 pound chicken until tender with salt to taste, 
then take out and boil the broth until 1 quart remains. Pick the 
meat from the bones and skin in rather small shreds. Soak the 
gelatine i f 2 hour in enough cold water to cover it. If the broth is 
not salty enough add a little more salt, then pepper, parsley, 
gelatine, (stir until it is dissolved), then the chicken and stir 
altogether. Wet a square mold in cold water, put in a layer of 
chicken, then a layer of sliced eggs, then a layer of chicken, and 
so on, making about 3 layers of chicken and 2 of eggs. Set in 
refrigerator to harden. Slice and serve when cold. It can be 
made the day before using and is nice for Luncheon or Picnics. 

naCASEED CHICKEN. 

A chicken thai is too old to fry or one that is 1 year old is 
nice cooked this way. Cut up and wash and place in kettle 
pouring on hot water so you can just see it. Let cook slowly and 



30 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

when nearly done add 1 heaping teaspoon salt. If the water 
cooks out before it is tender, add more hot water. Watch care- 
fully when nearly done as it wants to be so it will brown in the 
kettle. A smooth bottomed one is the best. If cooked too much 
it will fall to pieces. If chicken is very fat it will brown in its 
own gravy. If not, add a piece of butter and a sprinkling of pep- 
per. Dish up and make a gravy by adding 1 tablespoon flour to 
the kettle and stirring a few minutes and then add milk grad- 
ually until of the right thickness. Salt and pepper to taste. Pour 
over the chicken or serve in gravy boat. If liked, a few slices of 
sail pork (Sinclair's) can be placed in bottom of the kettle. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil a chicken until very tender. Season highly with salt 
and pepper. Separate white meat from dark and cut each up 
rat her fine. 

Roll ({ square wafers and divide them between the light and 
dark meat. Boil the liquor down to 1% pints and add 1 table- 
spoon gelatine previously soaked in cold water. Place in a deep, 
buttered dish a layer of the white meat, cover with liquor, then 
a layer of dark meat, cover with liquor, press tightly together 
and set away to harden. 

DEVILED CHICKEN. 

Chopped Chicken, 1 pint, | Bread Crumbs, 2 tablespoons, 

Cream, y 2 pint, | Nutmeg, a grating, 

Chopped rarsley, 1 tablespoon j Salt, to taste, 

Hard Boiled Eggs, 3, j Cayenne Pepper, to taste. 

Put butter in frying pan and melt, then add bread crumbs, 
chicken ami seasoning. Stir over the fire until it boils,, then add 
hard boiled eggs chopped very fine. Fill in paper cases or in- 
dividual dishes. Sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake in a hot 
oven. 

BOAST DUCK. 

Draw the duck and place in salt water for 1 hour. Then 
wash and wipe dry, rubbing inside a little salt and pepper and 
stuff with the following dressing: 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 31 

Crumb dry bread quite fine, about 2 quarts for 1 duck. Add 
y 2 cup melted butter, 1 teaspoon salt, y 2 teaspoon pepper, 1 
small onion chopped fine, ] / 2 cup cold water, mixed thoroughly. 
Fill duck and sew up. Place in pan in medium oven for y 2 hour, 
then add 1 pint hot water and bake y 2 hour, then add 1 pint hot 
water and bake y 2 hour longer. If the duck is fat will be rich 
enough. If not, add some butter. Baste several times, adding 1 
teaspoon salt and y 2 teaspoon pepper before basting the last 
time. 

Serve with tart jelly or cranberries. 

FRIED FROG'S LEGS. 

Place in cold water slightly salted for y 2 hour. Wash out 
and dr> on a folded cloth. Roll in flour with a little salt mixed 
through it. Place in frying pan 2 tablespoons butter. When hot, 
lay in the legs and fry a light brown, then turn and fry. Dish 
and serve as soon as done with your best jelly. A very dainty dish. 

BAKED HAM. 

Take 1 Sinclair Fidelity Ham, 10 to 12 pounds, wash and 
scrape clean. Make a paste of rye flour and water that will 
spread nicely. Spread all over the ham (Sinclair's Fidelity). 
Put in the meat roaster on a rack or plate (anything that will 
keep it off the bottom) . Bake 5 hours with the oven hot. When 
done, peel off the paste and rind and stick full of cloves. Return 
to oven for y> hour. 

Serve either hot or cold. 

BOILED HAM. 

Wash and scrape clean in warm water a Sinclair Fidelity 
ham. Place in kettle large enough to cook it, according 10 size 
of ham (Sinclair's Fidelity), and pour hot water over to cover. 
Put on the lid and boil medium fast, for an 8 or 10 pound ham 
(Sinclair's Fidelity), 2 hours, a larger one 2y> hours. Let stand 
in the water until cold. Then take up, strip off the skin ; stick 
cloves around in the fat part, dust with cracked crumbs and 
bake y 2 hour. Can be served hot, or if wanted cold, should stand 
24 hours or longer to get perfectly eold before slicing. When 



32 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

wanted, cut down inward the bone crosswise; it will be juicy and 
tender. If you want something extra fine, cut a slice a little 
thicker than t<> serve cold, have a frying pan hot. lay in the slice 
and scar on both sides. Dish and serve at once. 

HAM RAREBIT. 

Minced Bam, (Sinclair's Fi- Eggs, 2, 

delity) 1 cup, 
Dry Grated cheese. 1 cup, Cream or Milk. 3 tablespoons, 

( 'avenue to taste. 

Mix meat and cheese; stir beaten eggs into milk; mix all to- 
ller. Spread thickly on buttered crustless toast. Brown 
quickly in the oven and serve at once. 

HASH 

Any cooked meat or mixture of meats can lie used in hash. 
Chop the meal which may be 1-4 fat. Add twice as much cooked 
potato as meat. Season with salt and pepper. Add enough 
meat gravy or stork to moisten it. Pack in a frying pan in which 
1 tablespoon butter lias been heated until smoking hot. Cook 
slowly until brown crust is formed on the bottom. Slip a knife 
under and around to loosen it and turn out and serve hot. 

If preferred, raw potatoes can be used, ('hop them fine and 
place in frying pan first, on the bottom, then the seasoning and 
meat on top. Pry a little longer. Corned beef may be used the 
same way. 

STEWED KIDNEYS. 



Water, 3 gills, 

Beef Extract, 1 teaspoon, 

Salt. 1 teaspoon. 
Cayenne, 1-10 teaspoon. 



Lamb Kidneys, 6, 
Butter, 2 tablespoons. 
Flour, V-/2 tablespoons. 
Lemon Juice, 1 tablespoon, 

Draw skin from kidneys, split them in half; cut fat and 
sinews from inside and then cut in small pieces and wash them. 
Place in stew pan with 2 quarts cold water and let them heat 
gently to the boiling point, but not letting the water boil. Set 
back where they will keep hot 15 minutes, then strain them. Put 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 33 

butter in frying pan and when hot stir in the flour and cook until 
smooth and brown. Gradually add the water, then the extract 
and seasoning. When this boils, add the kidneys and set where 
they will keep hot but not boil for % hour. Then add lemon juice 
and serve very hot. 

KIDNEY SAUTE. 

Sheep or Lamb Kidneys, 6, | Beef Extract, y 2 teaspoon, 
Lemon Juice, 1 tablespoon, | Salt, 1 teaspoon, 
Flour 1 tablespoon, | Cayenne, 1-10 teaspoon, 

Butter, 3 tablespoons, j Minced Parsley, 1 teaspoon, 

Water, 1 gill. 

Eemove skin from kidneys and cut into thin round slices. 
With a penknife cut out the fat and sinews. Soak kidneys for j 2 
hour in 1 quart cold water with 1 tablespoon salt. Drain and 
wipe dry with a cloth. Season with salt and roll in flour. Put 
in butter in frying pan and when hot put in the kidneys and any 
flour that has nol clung to them. Stir 2 minutes, then add water, 
meat extract, salt and pepper, parsley and lemon. Heat to the 
boiling point and then set back for 3 minutes where it will keep 
hot but not boil. Then add Yi pound minced mushrooms- prev- 
iously cooked 5 minutes in another stew pan. 

BROILED LAMB CHOPS. 

Trim off the fat and outside skin of either lamb or mutton 
chops. Have them cut an inch or more thick; place over the 
coals in a hot wire broiler. When done on one side, turn; let 
them get just done through; it takes about 10 minutes. Dish 
up on a hot platter on which you have placed { L > teaspoon butter, 
1 g teaspoon salt, a dish of white pepper and 1 teaspo >n hot water. 
The foregoing is the quantity for 1 lb. chops; dip seasoning over 
the chops and serve immediately. If served with tomato sauce 
(see recipe), the sauce should be made before the meat is pre 
pared, and the meal ready. All meats should be dished as soon 
as done, especially broiled meats and fish. 



34 KELIABLK COOK HOOK. 



LAMB WITH MUSHMOOM SAUCE. 

Make ;i mushroom sauce (see recipe), theu broil the lamb 
i see recipe i ; dish lamb on hoi platter, pour the sauce around the 
chops and serve hot. 

ROAST LAMB. 

Trim off the fat if there is too much, wipe off and rub with 
a little salt and pepper and place in pan. Set in moderately hot 
oven; turn 2 or 3 times, allowing iy 2 or 1 3-4 hours for a 5 or 6 
lb. roast if wanted just done through. y 2 hour before the time is 
up, add 1 2 cup hot water and baste with the gravy twice before 
taking up. Dish on a platter and set where it will keep warm 
while you make the gravy. Set pan on stove and add 1 or 2 table- 
spoons flour, stirring until smooth and brown, then add hot 
water until of the right consistency for the gravy. Add more salt 
if nesessary. Serve with Mint or Caper sauce. (See recipe). 

Carve down through toward the bone, crosswise the grain. 
Put a little salt in the juice and dip it over the slices before help- 
ing the plates. It will be very sweet and tender. 

FRIED CALF'S LIVER. 

Place liver on paper and wipe off with a damp cloth. Then 
by cutting a little at one side the outer skin can be peeled off, 
leaving it clean without washing. Water toughens it. Slice 
crosswise about ^ inch thick. Roll in flour and fry in equal 
parts butter and lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) or drippings. Sea- 
son while cooking with salt and pepper. Serve as soon as done. 

If wished to serve with bacon (Sinclair's Fidelity), fry it 
first and then the liver. 

ROAST PORK WITH SWEET POTATOES. 

Wash and wipe dry a rib roast of pork, (Sinclair's), about 
7 pounds. Place in dripping pan. Dredge with 2 tablespoons 
flour; set in medium hot oven; bake 1 hour or until brown. Add 
1 pint hot water, 1 teaspoon pepper and 1 heaping tablespoon 
salt, and hake another hour, making 2 hours in all. Baste several 
times, turning 2 or 3 times, and have brown on both sides and 
well done but not dried out. Dish up. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 35 



Pour out of the pan nearly all the grease that has fried out 
(the water having all stewed out by this time) and make a gravy 
in pan the same as with other roasts. 

Serve with apple sauce. 

Boil or steam sweet potatoes without peeling until nearly 
done. Then peel and lay in pan with roast pork (Sinclair's) ^ 
hour before meat is done. Turn them so they will be brown on 
all sides. This is the making of a good dinner. 



FRIED PIGS FEET. 

Procure Sinclair's Dressed Pigs Feet and lay them in salt 
water over night. Wash thoroughly in fresh water, then put on 
to cook in hot water and boil V2 hour, then set the kettle on the 
back of the stove where they will just simmer or cook slowly for 
several hours until very tender, just so they do not fall from the 
bones. While cooking add salt to season as other meat. Remove 
from scove, take out carefully and lay on a platter so they will 
not touch each other. When partly cool take out the large bone, 
then let cool. Beat up 1 egg and add 2 tablespoons of hot water ; 
dip in this the pigs feet (Sinclair's), then roll them in cracker 
dust. Place in frying pan equal parts of butter and lard (Sin- 
clair's Fidelity) enough to cover the bottom of the pan. When 
hot, lay in feet and fry a nice brown on both sides. Serve hot; 
they are delicious. If preferred, you can dip them in thick, sweet 
cream, then fry them. 



PICKLED PIGS FEET. 

Prepare a quantity of Sinclair's Dressed Pigs Feet, cooking 
them the same as for frying. Remove from stove and place in a 
stone jar. Boil together for 5 minutes 3 quarts of vinegar, 2 
tablespoons of peppercorns and 1 tablespoon of who!e cloves, 
then pour this over the pigs feet (Sinclair's), while hot. Turn a 
plate over them to keep them under the vinegar. They will be 
good the next day and will keep some time. Are very nice. If 
desired, use 1 red pepper pod, or 2 tablespons of whole black pep- 
per instead of the peppercorns. 



36 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



ROAST QUAIL. 

To cook this way they are nicer dry picked. Draw them same 
as chicken but leave whole. Wash and place for 1 hour in salt 
water to draw blood out and make them white. Wash and wipe 
dry. Take ' ■_. cup bread crumbs, moisten with a little milk an«J 
butter, a dash of salt and pepper, and 6 oysters cut in halves. 
Mix the foregoing and stuff the quail. Place 1 whole oyster under 
each wing and tie a string around to keep them in place. Tie 
the legs together; lay in a dripping pan with a few bits of butter 
and sprinkling of flour. Add a very little water and bake ^2 
hour or until done. Baste 2 or 3 times while baking. This 
quantity of dressing is for 3 quail. Serve with jelly or spiced 
currants. 

SWEET BREADS. 

Lay in strong sail water for 1 hour, then cook in stew pan y% 
hour or until tender. Take up and strip off the outer skin, and 
cut in quite small pieces. Place in stew pan with some chicken 
broth or gravy (left over when you have chicken). Add water if 
not enough gravy, or use good meat stock or meat gravy. Season 
with salt and pepper. Serve on slices of buttered toast. 

FRIED SWEET BREADS. 

Cook and strip off the outer skin same as above and slice 
crosswise having pieces about as large as oysters. 

Beat 1 egg, add 2 tablespoons hot water and dash of salt 
and pepper. Dip pieces of sweet breads in this and then in 
cracker crumbs and fry like oysters. (See recipe). 

TONGUE IN ASPIC JELLY. 

Onion, 1, Water, 1 pint, 

Bay Leaves, 1, | Salt, a little, 

Beef Extract, y 2 teaspoon, | < Jayenne Pepper, a little, 
Gelatine, 1 tablespoon. 

Dissolve gelatine in 1-4 cup cold water. Cut onion into 
the pint of water, add bay leaf and bring to boil. Add salt and 
pepper. Strain this mixture over gelatine and add beef extract. 
Dip a mold in cold water, pour in a little of the jelly and set 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 37 



away to cool. When cold, lav the ball of tongue into mold and 
prick the cold jelly with a fork to make the next layer adhere. 
Then pour on enough jelly to cover the tongue. Let get cold. 

Sliced chicken or turkey may be used instead of tongue, 
using alternate layers with the jelly. 

BOILED TONGUE. 

If salt, wash in cold water and boil. If fresh, soak in strong 
salt water over night. Change first water when cooking. Add 
salt while cooking. When tender take up and strip off the outer 
skin and lay on platter and garnish with egg sauce. (See recipe). 
Serve warm. Beef's tongue requires 4 or 5 hours to cook. 

If wished to serve cold, cook as above, skin while hot, lay in 
a crock, sprinkle with pepper, put on a plate and weight to press 
it. Add a little of the broth it was cooked in. Place in a cool 
place until next day. Slice thin and garnish with parsley. 

ROAST TURKEY. 

If possible get a young and fat fowl, wash with cold water 
and wipe inside and out with a cloth. Rub 1 teaspoon salt and 
i/o teaspoon pepper inside, then fill with any of the dressings 
given. (See recipes). Do not fill too full as dressing swells 
when baked. Sew up with coarse thread. Wrap white paper 
around the legs as far as the first joint and tie with cord. This 
is to keep them from getting hard and dry. Tie the legs to- 
gether and tie the wings down close to the body using a strong 
coid. Place your meat roaster or dripping pan on the stove, put 
in 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) or 
drippings. When hot lay in the turkey and set in hot oven. 

Cut up the giblets, place in stew pan and cook in about 1 
quart hot water. When turkey has been in about y 2 hour, pour 
the giblets and water in the pan adding 1 tablespoon salt to a 10 
pound turkey ; cover. Baste several times while baking by 
dipping the gravy over the fowl with a large spoon. As the 
water cooks down and the fat fries from the fowl, it will brown 
in the pan so the gravy will be a nice brown. The oven should 
be kept to an even heat to cook it through and brown without 
burning. When done, take up fowl and giblets and add 2 table- 



38 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

spoons flour to the pan, set on the stove and stir until smooth, 
then add hot water until the right thickness for gravy. Some 
like the giblets chopped fine and added to the gravy. Fowls are 
very juicy and tender cooked in this way as the juice is retained 
by searing in the oven before the water and salt are put in. 

The time for baking is W 2 hours for 7 to 10 pound fowl and 
2y 2 hours for 12 to 15 pounds, and for a larger one 3 hours. 
Serve with cranberry sauce. 

For an old fowl, stuff and steam until tender, then brown 
in oven. 

In absence of a roasting pan for fowls and meats, use a 
common dripping pan and cover with another pan. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Have a leg or rib roast of veal say 6 or 7 pounds. Wash and 
wipe dry. Set pan on the stove and put in 2 tablespoons butter, 
2 tablespoons lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) or drippings. When hot, 
lay in meat, Dredge 3 tablespoons flour over meat and in pan. 
Add 1 heaping tablespoon salt, 1 heaping teaspoon pepper, and set 
in rather hot oven. In 1 -> hour add 1 pint hot water. Bake 1 
hour longer. 

Make a dressing as follows : Cut dry bread in small pieces ; 
have about 2 quarts. Place in frying pan 1 heaping tablespoon 
butter and when melted put in the bread and stir 5 minutes. 
Then add 1 teaspoon salt, H teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon sage, 2 
beaten eggs and 1 pint of milk. Stir this together. If it seems 
too dry, add a little water and 2 spoonfulls of gravy from the 
pan. Have it rather moist. Pour this in one end of the pan con- 
i Mining the meat and bake V 2 hour longer, basting several times. 
Time for roast, 2 hours altogether. Veal should be thoroughly 
cooked. Dish up meat and dressing. 

.Make a gravy by adding a little more flour and hot water to 
the gravy in the pan. If the water should cook out too much 
while the meat is baking, add more. 

VEAL PIE. 

The cheaper cuts of veal make a nice pie. Cook until tender; 
add salt. Take out meat, pick from bones and cut in pieces. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 39 



Place in a baking dish or pan. Make a gravy in the broth by 
adding a little flour wet smooth with water. Should be about 
as thick as cream. Season with salt if needed, butter and pepper. 
Pour this over the meat. There should be enough gravy to come 
up over the meat. 

Make a crust of 1 quart flour, 3 heaping teaspoons baking 
powder. y 2 teaspoon salt and V 2 cup lard, (Sinclair's Fidelity). 
Mix like biscuit dough. Roll until y 2 inch thick, place over the 
pan like chicken pie and bake in rather hot oven y 2 hour or until 
crust is done. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Trim off outer skin, roll in flour and take for 1 pound meat, 
1 egg beaten well and 2 tablespoons hot water. Dip cutlets in 
this and have ready equal parts of butter and drippings or (Sin- 
clair's Fidelity) lard, enough to cover the bottom of frying pan. 
When hot, lay in the meat, dredge with 1 teaspoon salt and V 2 
teaspoon pepper. Cover and cook slowly about 20 minutes. When 
brown, turn and fry on the other side. Have them nice and 
brown; take up on warm plate. Add to the pan y 2 cup cream 
or milk, stir until it boils a little thick and pour on the meat 
and serve. Time, V 2 hour or more. 

STUFFED BREAST OF VEAL. 

Have the butcher cut a veal breast so that it makes a pocket. 
Fill the pocket with bread or meat stuffing. Lard it. Place in 
pan on stove 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 tablespoon Sinclair's 
Fidelity lard. When hot, place in the meat. Roast IV2 hours 
in oven. For gravy, add to the drippings in the pan a little flour 
and 1 cup soup stock. Strain through a seive and serve hot. 

PRESSED VEAL. 

Cook a shank of veal and 1 pound of solid meat until tender, 
take out and shred meat. Season with salt, pepper and juice of 2 
lemons. Boil down the liquor and pour it over the meat. Boil 
3 eggs hard, slice them and lay in the bottom of the dish. Put in 
the meat and set away to cool. Make the day before it is wanted 
for use. Put into cups with a piece of egg in the bottom of each 
makes a very pretty dish. 



40 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



VENISON STEAK. 

Have the steak cut rather thick. Trim off the outer skin, 
press down even but do not pound. Lay on a hot gridiron over the 
hot coals, broil quickly, take up so it will not dry out, on a hot 
plate. Add salt, pepper and a few bits of butter and serve at 
once. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Chopped Beef, 2 lbs, | Eggs, 2, 

Chopped Pork Tenderloin, j Salt, 2 teaspoons, 

(Sinclair's) 1 lb, | Pepper, 2 teaspoons, 

Stale bread, 1 pint, j Rolled Crackers or Browned 

Bread Crumbs. 

Have meat chopped or ground. Soak bread in cold water, 
squeeze out with the hands, then measure. Mix all of the in- 
gredients together, except the cracker or broad crumbs, form in 
round, long roll, lay in pan and steam 1 hour. Remove, sprinkle 
wit ii cracker or broad crumbs, dip the gravy over it and brown 
in the oven. It is nice served warm or cold. 

SALMON LOAF. 

Salmon, 1 can, | Melted Butter, I tablespoons, 

Sweet Milk, 2 tablespoons, | Eggs. 2, 

Chopped Parsley, 2 level table- j Fine Bread Crumbs, y 2 cll P- 
spoons. Salt, 1 pinch, 

Pepper, 1 pinch. 

Mix all of the ingredients together, put in a mold or deep 
pan, cover tight, set in broad kettle or pan of hot water, and let 
water boil around it 1 hour. Slice and serve when cold. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Chopped Veal, 3 lbs, | Sweet Milk, 3 tablespoons, 

Chopped Fat Sail Pork, (Sin- Sail, 1 level tablespoon, 

clair's), ' •_> lb. White Pepper, 1 level table- 

Eggs, 3, spoon, 

Square Cracker, 1, | Gutter, 

Cracker Crumbs. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 41 

Have meat chopped or ground. Roll the square cracker fine. 
Beat the eggs. Put together the veal, pork, (Sinclair's) 2 of the 
eggs, square cracker, milk, salt, pepper and mix well, then make 
in a long, round roll and put in pan. Beat the other egg and 
spread over the top, dust with cracker crumbs, put on some bits 
of butter, pour a little hot water in the pan and bake 1 hour. 
Baste it while baking. 

OYSTER DRESSING FOR TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Soak enough dry bits of bread in cold water to make the 
quantity required. When soft, squeeze out dry with the hand. 
Put in a dish and add salt and pepper and sweet milk enough to 
make it rather thin, about like bread pudding. To about 2 quarts 
of this add 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon salt and 1 quart 
oysters. This will be sufficient for a large turkey. For a 
chicken, use less quantity. Rub a little salt and pepper inside 
the fowl before putting in the dressing. Do not stuff too full as 
dressing swells. Put what remains in the pan when the fowl is 
within I/, hour of being done, or put in a separate greased pan 
and dip a little gravy and a few bits of butter over the top. Bake 
1 - hour. Have it brown over the top. It will be very light made 
in this way. 

TO MAKE TOUGH MEATS TENDER. 

Boil (» cloves. 6* peppercorns and 1 small onion in 1 pint 
vinegar 10 minutes. Turn into broad earthen dish. 

Take any piece of tough meat, fre<' from bones, wipe it and 
lay in the pickle for 24 hours, turning it sveral times so that 
every part may be in the pickle. Put it on to cook in boiling 
water and simmer until meat is tender. Let the water boil down 
towards the last until there is about 1 pint. Then add 1 teaspoon 
sail, 1 saltspoon pepper and cook 10 minutes longer. Remove 
meat. Thicken gravy with a little flour, boil 10 minutes and 
turn into gravy dish. Serve meat hot with the gravy for dinner 
and use the balance cold. 

TO MAKE TOUGH STEAK TENDER. 

A slice of meat from the poorer part of the round or flank 



42 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

may be made into a good, tender and palatable steak. 

Pound with a mallet or grooved meat hammer until net- 
work of fibre is broken. Sprinkle all over with juice of lemon, 
double it over and pound again and sprinkle with salt, then fold 
it over until it is as thick as you like, about 1 1-4 inch, 
press it a little to make it adhere and have the edges of a uni- 
form thickness. Broil the same as any steak and spread with 
butter and pepper. 

APPLE SAUCE. 

Cook tart apples until very tender and then stir them 
thoroughly so there will be no lumps at all. Add sugar to taste 
and a little gelatine dissolved in warm water, about 1 tablespoon 
to 1 pint of sauce. Put in mold and when cold turn out on a 
plate. It will be like jelly. Very nice with meat or game. 

FRIED APPLES No. 1. 

Take large, unpeeled apples and slice crosswise about 1 inch 
thick. Remove core leaving round hole. Roll in flour, then in 
sugar. Place enough butter in frying pan to cover bottom when 
melted. Put in apple rings and fry until brown on both sides. If 
apples do not cook readily, cover them. The steam will make 
them tender. 

Dish on hot plate and serve with roast or game. 

FRIED APPLES No. 2. 

Quarter and core without peeling 2 quarts apples. Place 
in spider 1 tablespoon butter, put in the apples and sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon. Add 2 or 3 tablespoons water, place on 
the cover and let fry slowly until apples are tender. If any water 
remains when apples are done, remove cover and let it evaporate. 
They should be browned, being careful not to burn them. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 43 



BECHAMEL SAUCE. 



Carrots, 1 small slice, 
Onion, i/ 2 , 
Bay Leaves, 1, 
. Parsley, 1 sprig, 
Thyme, 1 sprig, 
Mace, a tiny bit. 



Butter, 4 tablespoons, 
Flour, 3 tablespoons, 
Beef Extract, y 2 teaspoon, 
Salt, 1 teaspoon, 
Boiling Water, 3 gills, 
Cream, 3 gills, 

Put butter and flour in a sauce pan and beat to a cream. 
Pour the boiling water on this. Tie the herbs in a bunch and put 
them in the sauce pan. Add the vegetables, extract of meat, 
spice, salt and pepper, and place the sauce pan on the fire. Sim- 
mer slowly for V2 hour. Then strain sauce into a clean sauce 
pan, add cream and stir frequently until sauce comes to the boil- 
ing point. Serve. It makes a delicious sauce for fish, poultry or 
vegetables. 

CURRANT JELL SAUCE. 

For game or meats put 2 tablespoons butter and 1 table- 
spoon chopped nuts in a frying pan, 1 bay leaf, 1 sprig parsley 
and 2 whole cloves. Stir until mixture becomes a dark brown. 
Then slowly add IV2 cups soup stock. When sauce boils add 1 
tablespoon lemon juice, % cup currant jelly and salt and pepper 
to taste. Simmer 3 minutes, strain and serve. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Capers, 3 tablespoons, | Boiling Water, 1 pint, 

Flour, 2 tablespoons, | Butter, y 2 cup, 

Lemon Juice, 1 tablespoon, | Salt, x /2 teaspoon. 

Beat flour and butter to a cream, then add the boiling water, 
set on the stove and stir until it comes to the boiling point, then 
add the other ingredients. Keep warm but not hot until ready to 
serve with the meat. 

TO COOK CRANBERRIES, No. 1. 

Pick over berries, throw the nice perfect ones in one dish, 
the others in another dish. Take the latter, wash and put in 
granite kettle with enough water to cover and cook until quite 



44 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

soft, about 20 minutes. Take off and rub through a sieve, then 
add the other berries, previously washed, to this pulp, put back in 
the kettle and cook 10 or 1~> minutes. Add V/% cups sugar to each 
quarl berries measured before cooking. Let cook 10 minutes 
after sugar is put in. Take a spoonful in a dish and cool. If not 
thick enough, simmer longer. They make more prepared in this 
way and are very much nicer. The juice forms a jelly of fine 
flavor and color. If wished to mould, cook longer and turn in 
mould. Will keep 2 or 3 weeks in cold weather. 
Serve with roast meat or poultry. 

TO COOK CRANBERRIES, No. 2. 

Wash and cook 1 quart berries until soft in 3 pints water. 
Hub through a sieve and return to kettle. Cook 10 minutes, add 
•_' cups sugar and cok until quite thick. Test by cooling a spoon- 
ful. When it begins to stiffen, take it off. It will mould when 
cold. Dip moulds in cold water. Very nice in individual molds. 
Will keep 2 or 3 weeks in cold weather. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Take 1 cup of the bottled salad dressing; to this add VL' 
cup of sweet cream ; 1 dessert spoon of "red bell peppers 
chopped fine, and 1 hard boiled egg chopped medium fine; if 
liked 1 spoon of finely minced parsley may be added; stir all to- 
gei Ik r ; place dish in pan of hot water and warm the sauce; serve 
with fish or boiled tongue. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Mushrooms. 1 can, | Salt, V 2 teaspoon, 

Soup Stock, 1 cup, Flour, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Pepper, 1,4 teaspoon, | Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Put the butter in frying pan and when hot add the flour, 
stirring until smooth and a little brown; do not burn; then 
add the soup stock and water drained off the mushrooms, stir 
in carefully so it will not be lumpy; add the salt and pepper; 
cook a few minutes, add the mushrooms; simmer 5 minutes 
longer and serve hot. If liked a little thicker add a little' 



. RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 45 

more flour wet smooth with water. If no soup stock is at 
hand, use meat gravy from roasts, or chicken broth, or gravy 
which should always be saved as it can be used in so many 
ways. Mushrooms are rather tasteless without something of 
this kind. Half of this quantity is sufficient for a small family. 

MINT SAUCE 

Green Mint, chopped fine, 2| Powdered Sugar, 1 tablespoon, 
tablespoons, | Good Cider Vinegar, y 2 cup. 

Put sugar and vinegar together, stir in the mint chopped 

fine and let stand in cool place about y 2 hour before serving. 

OYSTER SAUCE No. 1. 

Oysters, 1 pint, | Butter, 1 tablespoon, 

Milk, 1 pint, | Flour, 1 heaping teaspoon, 

Yolk of Egg, 1, I Salt, y 2 level teaspoon, 

White Pepper. 

Heat the milk to boiling, cream the flour and butter to- 
gether, then stir it in the hot milk and cook until it thickens, 
then remove. When partially cool add the beaten yolk, salt, 
pepper and strain through a wire sieve. Put the oysters on 
the stove in their own liquor, in a small stew pan, let come 
to a boil, then add them to the above. Serve hot with fish 
or fowl. Small oysters are just as good for this, just so they 
are fresh. 

OYSTER SAUCE No. 2. 

Oysters, 1 solid pint, | Lemon Juice, 1 tablespoon, 

Water, \ 2 pint, j Cayenne Pepper, 1-8 teaspoon, 

Butter, 4 tablespoons, | Salt, 1 teaspoon, 

Flour, 2 tablespoons, j Extract of Beef, y 2 teaspoon. 

Put into a stew pan the oysters, water and extract of 
beef, and place over the fire. Heat slowly to the boiling point, 
thee skim. Put a strainer over a bowl and turn the oysters 
into it. Put the butter and flour in a sauce pan and beat until 
creamy. Pour on this the liquor which was strained from the 
oysters, bring careful not to get in any of the sediment. Put on 



46 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



the tire and stir until it boils, then set back where it will simmer 
for 10 minutes. Now add the salt, pepper, lemon juice and 
oysters. Serve hot with fish or fowl. The extract of beef may 
be omitted if desired. 

SOUBISE SAUCE 

Sliced White Onion, 1 pint, | Beef Extract, 1-4 teaspoon, 
Milk, l / 2 P'" 1 ' I Pepper, y 2 teaspoon, 

Water, 1 gill, | Butter, 3 tablespoons, 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon, j Flour 1 tablespoon, 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Pare and slice onion. Place in stew pan with 3 pints 
boiling water and simmer 1-2 hour. Pour water off and add 
1 tablespoon butter, the salt, pepper and sugar. Cover stew 
pan and set where contents will cook slowly for 1 hour. Then 
run this through a fine sieve, return to sauce pan and add 
water, milk and extract of meat. Place on stove to boil. Cream 
flour and 2 tablespoons butter and stir this into the sauce when 
it boils and cook 8 minutes, stirring frequently. Serve hot with 
boiled, broiled or roast poultry or meats. Notwithstanding so 
much onion is used the flavor of the sauce is very delicate. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Tomatoes, 1 pint, | Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Small Onion, y 2i j Flour, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Parsley, 1 sprig, j Salt, V 2 level teaspoon, 

Bay Leaves, 1, j Pepper, *4 level teaspoon, 

Mace, 1 blade, j Sugar, 1 level teaspoon. 

Put all of the ingredients together, except flour and but- 
ter, and cook 10 minutes. Strain, or run through a press, and 
return to the fire. Rub flour and butter together, then stir 
it in the tomatoes and stir until thoroughly mixed and thick 
enough to use. If it lumps, beat with a wire egg beater. Serve 
hot. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 47 



Fish and Oysters 



BAKED FISH. 



Scale and remove head. Wash thoroughly in cold water 
and then place in cold water with some salt strewn over it for 
1-2 hour. Wash out and dry. Make a dressing with 1 pint 
bread crumbs, 1 3 cup melted butter, 1 teaspoon minced parsley 
oi 1 some minced onion, 1-2 teaspoon salt and 1-4 teaspoon pep- 
per, and the yolk of 1 egg to bind together. Rub a little salt 
and pepper inside the fish, then put in the dressing. The above 
quantity for a 4 or 5 pound fish. Fasten together with 4 or 5 
wooden toothpicks instead of sewing. 

Place dripping pan on the stove with some slices of salt 
pork (Sinclair's) and lay the fish on this. Place a few bits of 
butter over the top, 1 tablespoon salt and a little white pepper. 
Add 1 cup hot water to the pan. Place in rather hot oven and 
bake 3-4 hour. Baste 2 or 3 times. Serve as soon as done. 
Dish by placing a cake turner underneath. Loosen carefully 
from the pan, sliding out on a fish platter and serve with Egg 
Sauce (see recipe). A smaller fish can be prepared the same 
way. Pike or Pickerel are best to bake; Trout and White fish 
next. 

PLANKED FISH 

This is a delicious and easy way to cook fish. Scale and 
remove head of either Pike or Pickerel. Wash clean and lay 
on a board and split open by cutting down through the ribs 
each side of backbone so it will lay Hat, then dry with a cloth. 
Place pan on stove with 1 tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon 
drippings or (Sinclair's Fidelity) lard, for 4 pound fish. When 
hot remove to table, place the fish in skin side down, beat 1 
egg and spread thinly over fish and then strew over it 1-2 cup 
fine brown bread crumbs (see recipe), 1 teaspoon salt, dash 
white pepper and a few bits butter. Place in very hot oven 
for 20 or 30 minutes. Slip on platter and serve at once. 



48 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



SCALLOPED FISH 

Boil ;i white lish in salt water until done. Then take from 
the pan and pour on 1 cup of the water in which it was boiled. 
Add the following dressings: 

CRACKER DRESSING 

Mix 1 cup cracker crumbs with 1-2 cup butter. Season 
with 1 saltspoon salt, 1 saltspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon chopped 
onion and 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. 

CREAM DRESSING 

One tablespoon butter mixed with 1 tablespoon flour and 
gradually stir in 1 cup hot milk. 

Place a layer of cracker dressing, then one of fish and then 
one of cream dressing and so continue until all has been used. 
Bake in a buttered pan 1-2 hour. 

CREAMED CODFISH 

Shredded Codfish, 1 pint, | Butter, 1 heaping desertspoon, 

Milk, V ■> joints, | Flour, 1 heaping desertspoon, 

Yolk of Egg, 1. 

Soak the fish over night or for several hours in cold water. 
Pick in small pieces. Cook about 10 minutes. Drain off the 
water and add milk. Cream butter and flour and add stirring 
until smooth and thick. Remove from fire and add beaten yolk 
of egg. Serve with baked potatoes. 

If preferred white, omit the egg. 

Any of the above left over can be mixed with cold, mashed 
potato and egg and fried in the form of patties or codfish balls. 

CODFISH NESTS 

Soak cod lish 2 hours, shred in small pieces, put in cold 
water and bring to boil. Pour off water and replace with cold 
water, allow ii to boil and drain. 

Take hot, boiled potatoes, mash and season with butter 
and pepper and a very little milk. Take equal part fish and 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 49 



potatoes, mix well. Add salt if necessary. Form into nests, 
each large enough to hold an egg. Put in a greased pan, 
set in oven and bake a light brown. Remove from oven and 
nito each one break an egg. Return to oven until eggs are 
cooked. Serve hot. 

SCALLOPED CODFISH AND CHEESE. 

Soak 1 pound salt codfish 6 hours in tepid water, then 
boil it. When cold, pick into flakes with a fork and season 
with pepper. Heat 1 cup milk to the boil, stir into it 1 table- 
spoon butter and 2 tablespoons flour. Mix with picked fish 
and your into a baking dish. Strewn grated cheese thickly 
on top and bake in a quick oven until brown. It is nicer if 
you add a raw egg to the mixture before baking. 

SALT CODFISH 

An unusual and tempting way of serving salt codfish is 
thus : Cut several thick slices of best part of codfish and soak 
in cold water for several hours. Then cook slowly in pelnty of 
water and drain. When cold cut slices in uniform 
pieces of any shape deisred. Lay them in a soup plate and 
make a dressing of the juice of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon olive 
oil and a little white pepper. Mix this together and pour 
dressing over fish. Let them remain 1 hour. Take up each 
piece and dip in beaten egg and cover with fine bread crumbs. 
Fry in boiling hot lard (Sinclair's Fidelity), until a golden 
brown. Place them on a hot platter and garnish with parsley 
and slices of lemon. 

DEVILED CRABS 

Crabs, 1 lb. can, | Hard Boiled Eggs, 1, 

Cayenne Pepper, to taste, j Raw Eggs, 1, 

Mustard, to taste, Melted Butter, 1 tablespoon, 

Salt, to taste, | Vinegar, iy 2 tablespoons. 

Drain the liquid from the crabs. Rub the yolk of the hard 
boiled egg into the melted butter, add to this the vinegar, pep- 
per, mustard and salt, then stir in the yolk of the well beaten 



50 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

raw egg, add the well beaten white, then add the chopped white 
Of the hard boiled egg. Mix this dressing well through the meal, 
wash the shells and till them lightly, put a little melted butter 
over the top of each one and bake a dedicate brown. Serve in 
shells. If you do not have the crab shells, bake in a baking 
dish and send to table in dish. 

CR E A MED OYSTERS 

Oysters, 1 quart, | Flour, 1 level tablespoon, 

Cream, 1 pint, | Salt, to taste, 

Butter, 1 tablespoon, | Pepper, to taste. 

Place cream in double boiler. Mix butter and flour smooth 
and stir in cream when hot. Let the oysters come to a boil in their 
own liquor. Drain off liquor and turn oysters into cream. Add 
salt and pepper. 

Use equal parts milk and cream instead of all cream if pre- 
ferred. 

FRIED OYSTERS No. 1. 

Wash oysters quickly in cold water and lay on a cloth to 
drain being careful to remove all shells. Dip in prepared 
bread crumbs (see recipe) and lay each one separately on a 
platter. Beat 2 eggs light and add 2 tablespoons hot water. 
Dip the oysters in this and then again in the crumbs. Drop 
in boiling prepared fat (see recipe). 1 1-2 minutes will cook 
them. Serve at once with Cabbage Salad No. 1. 

A wire basket is best for this purpose. Cover the bot- 
tom of the basket with the oysters and pluuge it in the ket- 
tle of hot fat lifting out when cooked. All are at once re- 
moved. In absence of a basket use a wire ladle or fork plac- 
ing under them to remove quickly. Place on soft paper or 
cheese cloth. 

FRIED OYSTEKS No. 2. 

Oysters, 1 quart, Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Eggs, 2, | Pepper, y 2 level teaspoon, 

Milk. 1 pint, | Rolled Crackers, V/ 2 cups. 

Take oysters out of their liquor and lay on a (doth to drain. 
Real eggs and add milk, salt and pepper, and cracker crumbs. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 51 

Let stand about 10 minutes. If oysters arc large take 1 or if 
small take l! or :'> at a time and dip in this mixture, patting it 
around with hands so that all parts arc covered. Lay on a 
plate until all are prepared. 

Place in a spider equal parts lard (Sinclair's Fidelity), and 
butter, enough to cover the bottom of the pan. When hot, 
lay in the oysters and fry brown on both sides doing it quickly. 
Serve immediately. 

FRIZZLED OYSTEKS 

For 1 dozen oysters (on liquor used) place in a thin fry- 
ing' pan over a hot blaze 1 heaping teaspoon butter and let 
brown but not burn. Put in oysters and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, stirring with a fork. When they look plump and 
the edges curl, dish and serve at once with crisp crackers and 
celery or on buttered toast. They resemble broiled ovsters. 



LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS 

Wrap a large oyster seasoned with salt and pepper in a 
tli in slice of (Sinclair's Fidelity) bacon and fasten with a 
wooden toothpick. Cook in a hot frying pan until (Sinclair's 
Fidelity ) bason is crisp. Serve on toast garnished with parsley, 
hey »-an he baked and served without toast. 



RAW^ OYSTER DISH 

Select a nice clean square chunk of ice. Hollow out 
the center. This can be done by chopping out some of the 
ice, then take hot stove lids, or anything hot and melt the center 
so it will form a large hole. Into this put raw oysters and place 
on a large platter or dish. Garnish the dish with ferns, vines 
or in any suitable way. Set in center of table and serve to each 
individual with sliced lemon. This keeps the oysters cold lie- 
sides forming a very pretty and attractive dish, as the oysters 
can be seen through the block of ice. 



52 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



OYSTEK SAUTE 

25 Fat Oysters, Pepper, 

1 U lb. Sinclair's Fidelity Bacon,| Flour. 

Drain oysters and dry on napkin. Then sprinkle with 
pepper and roll in flour. Cut (Sinclair's Fidelity I bacon in 
thin slices and fry until crisp. Dish up and cover bottom of pan 
with oysters. As soon as crisp and brown on one side turn and 
brown on the other. Serve with the (Sinclair's Fidelity) bacon. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS No. 1. 

Oysters, 1 quart, | Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Cracker Crumbs, V-/ 2 pints, j Pepper, .1 level teaspoon, 
Butter, Vo coffee cup, | Milk. 

F.utter a baking dish; [dace in dish a layer of rolled crack- 
er crumbs, then a layer of oysters, a sprinkling of salt and pep- 
per and some bits of butter, then a layer of cracker crumbs, 
then a layer of oysters, a sprinkling of salt and pepper and 
some bits of butter and so continue until dish is full, finishing 
with crackers and bits of butter on top. If there is any liquor 
to the oysters pour that in, then pour in milk until you can 
just see it. Bake in hot oven 1-2 or 3-4 of an hour and send 
to table in the same dish they are baked in. Water may be 
used instead of milk. If liked richer, use more butter. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS No. 2 

Oysters, | Salt, 

Bread Crumbs, j Pepper, 

Melted Butter. 

Dry bread in oven, roll tine, season with salt and pepper 
to taste, and moisten with melted butter, using 2 tablespoons 
well rounded of butter to 1 pint of crumbs. Butter a baking 
dish ami put a lighl layer of crumbs on the bottom, then cover 

these with oysters, then put another layer of crumbs, then 
another layer of oysters, and so on. finishing with a layer of 
crumbs on top. Fake L5 minutes. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 53 



Lggs, Omelets and Croquettes 



BAKED EGGS. 



In a hot oven, on a stoneware platter, melt a large lump 
of butter. When thoroughly softened, shake it all over the 
dish in order to grease it well. On this hot butter drop 6 
eggs as for poaching. When the whites are set they are done. 
They should be served with toast. 

BOILED EGGS. 

Place required' number of eggs in a stew pan of boiling 
water, remove from stove, cover and wrap closely with a cloth, 
and let remain 6 minutes. The eggs will be of a custardy con- 
sistency throughout and far more digestible than when cooked 
on the fire. 

DEVILED EGGS 

Eggs, 1 doz., | Red Bell Pepper (chopped 

Bottled Salad Dressing, fine), 1 teaspoon, 

Minced Parsley, 1 teaspoon. 

I Mace the eggs in a stew pan of boiling water and cook 
20 minutes, stirring them gently once or twice during the first 
5 minutes, (this is to cause the yolks to set in the middle of 
the whites), then take out in cold water. When perfectly cold, 
shell and cut in halves lengthwise, take out the yolks carefully 
and place the whites on a platter. Chop the yolks and add the 
parsley, the pepper, and enough salad dressing to moisten the 
eggs, i Not too wet). Fill the whites with this mixture a little 
more than level full, rounded a little. Serve on a bed of Lettuce 
Leaves. 

POACHED EGGS 

Have boiling salted water. In absence of an egg poach- 
er, stand a muffin ring in the water. Break into it an egg 



54 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

and at once draw I lie skillet hack on the stove where it will 
keep hot hut not hoil. Let it cook 5 minutes. Dish and serve 
with sprig of parsley, salt and pepper. 

PANNED EGGS 

Pour enough eohl meat gravy in a jelly cake tin to half 
fill it. Set in the oven until smoking hot. Break in eggs, 
dash with salt and pepper and hake until set. The appear- 
ance of these is deceitful as they conk from the outside and 
are raw in the middle if yon take them out under ?> minutes 
or more according to the heat of the oven. 

Si 1 RAM 15 LED EGGS 

Put 1 tablespoon butter, 1 uill of milk, 1 saltspoon salt, 1-2 
saltspoon pepper and tablespoon minced parsley in frying pan. 
When mixture boils, break into it 8 or 10 eggs, and si ir until t hey 
are well mixed and cease to run over the pan. Serve immediate- 
ly on buttered toast. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

IJreak 12 eggs into a deep howl. Ileat lightly for a minute 
only. Add 1 cup milk, 4 tablespoons grated cheese and a little 
salt and pepper. Put 1 tablespoon butter in frying pan and 
when melted pour in the eggs. When they thicken sufficiently, 
fold over and serve immediately. 

EGG OMELET 
Eggs, 6, Salt, 1 level teaspoon, 

Milk, 1 cup, Pepper, 'i level teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Separate eggs. Beat the yolks, then add flour wet smooth 
with part of milk. Then add the rest of milk, salt and pepper 
and lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Grease pan with butter, 
pour in the mixture and hake 10 minutes in hot oven. Turn out 
on hot platter and serve. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 55 



HAM OMELET. 

Make an egg omelet (see recipe) and just before turning 
half over sprinkle over it fine chopped ham, (Sinclair's Fi- 
delity l. Jellv or marmalade may be added in the same manner. 



OYSTER OMELET. 

JEggs, 6, I Sweet Cream, 3 tablespoons, 

( hsters, 12, | Butter, 1 tablespoon, 

Salt, 1 level teaspoon, | Flour, 1 level tablespoon, 

Pepper, a dash. 

Separate eggs and to beaten yolks add flour made smooth 
with cream, salt, pepper, the oysters chopped fine, and last 
the beaten whites of eggs. Stir just enough to mix. Put but- 
ter in spider and when melted, pour omelet in and set in hot 
oven until eggs are set. Turn top side down on a warm platter 
and serve at once. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 



Chopped Chicken, 1 heaping pt. 
Bread or Cracker Crumbs, y 2 

cup, 
Chicken Stock or Gravy, 1 cup, 
Salt, 3 2 teaspoon, 



Pepper, 14 teaspoon, 
Lemon -Juice, 1 tablespoon, 
Butter, 1 tablespoon. 
Flour, 1 tablespoon. 
Onion Juice, a few drops. 



Melt the butter in a sauce pan, add the flour and stir un- 
til smooth, then add the chicken stock. To this add the 
chicken, bread crumbs and the rest of the ingredients, let come 
to a boil stirring thoroughly, then remove. When perfectly 
cold, form in croquettes the shape of a small egg or a little 
larger, roll in bread or cracker crumbs, then in beaten egg, 
then in crumbs again and fry brown in boiling hot lard (Sin- 
clair's Fidelity). Lift out on soft paper or cloth to absorb 
grease. Serve hot. It is very handy to have a wire basket 
as for fried oysters. In the absence of chicken stock or gravy, 
cream may lie used. 



56 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



CODFISH BALLS No. 1. 

Codfish, 1 pint, | Butter, size of an egg, 

RaAv Sliced Potatoes, 2 pints, | Egg, 1, 

Cream or Rich Milk, 3 tablespoons. 

Pick the codfish very tine, then put it with the potatoes 
in plenty of cold water and boil until the potatoes are thorough- 
ly cooked; remove from the tire and drain off all the water. 
Mash them with the potato masher, then add butter, the well 
beaten egg ami the cream, and stir thoroughly. Flour your 
hands and make into halls or cakes. Put 1 tablespoon each of 
butter and i Sinclair's Fidelity) lard into a frying pan; when 
hot. put in the balls ami fry a nice brown. Do not freshen the 
fish before boiling with The potatoes. .Many cooks fry them in a 
kettle of lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) as you fry oysters. 



CODFISH BALLS No. 2. 

Cooker Codfish, 2-3 quart. | Butter, size of an egg, 

Mashed Potatoes, 1 quart, j Egg. 1, 

Cream or Milk, 1-2 cup. 

Pick the codfish very fine, then mix it with the potatoes 
and add the butter, well beaten egg and cream, stirring thor- 
oughly. Fry the same as Codfish Balls No. 1. When you 
have ('reamed Codfish left over, this is a good way to use it up. 
'Puke i he same proportions and ingredients omitting the butter, 
and if there is not enough of the cream dressing add enough 
cream or milk to make the desired amount. 



MEAT CECILS. 

To every pint of chopped meat add the yolks of 2 eggs, 
1 tablespoon butter. 2 tablespoons bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon 
parsley, 1 teaspoon scraped onion, 1-2 teaspoon salt and 1-4 
teaspoon pepper. Mix all together. Stir in pan over fire until 
heated through. When cold form into small balls, cover with 
beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 57 



OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Raw Oysters, \ •_. pint, | Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Cooked Veal, H pint, j Cracker Crumbs, 3 tablespoons 

Yolks of Eggs, 2, | Onion Juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Chop oysters and veal very fine. Soak cracker crumbs in 
oyster liquor and then mix all ingredients and shape. Dip in 
egg and roll in cracker crumbs and fry same as other cro- 
quettes. The butter should be soft before mixing. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

One dozen medium sized potatoes boiled and rubbed through 
a sieve. Add 1-2 cup hot milk, 1 tablespoon butter and a little 
salt and pepper. Stir this in a sauce pan until hot. Beat in 
2 eggs and continue to beat until smooth. Turn out in a dish 
and let get cold. Flour your hands and make the mixture into 
croquettes. Roll in beaten egg and cracker crumbs and fry in 
hot (Sinclair's Fidelity) lard. 

SALMON PATTIES. 

Salmon, 1 can, | Butter, size of an egg. 

Egg, 1, J Pepper, to taste, 

Milk, H teacup, ! Salt, to taste, 

Rolled Crackers, 1 teacup. 

Mix all except crackers together, form in patties, and roll 
in cracker crumbs. Fry in hot (Sinclair's Fidelity) lard. Serve 
immediately. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Make the same as Chicken Croquettes using Chopped Veal 
instead of chicken. Add the white of 1 egg beaten stiff. 

FRIED MUSH. 

Have water boiling hot, 2 quarts, or as much as you wish 
to make. Salt to taste. Stir in gradually and in fine stream, 
fine yellow corn meal, stirring constantly, until about like a 
medium thick batter. Corn meal swells, so it will be thicker 



58 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



after it cooks. If it seems too stiff, add hot water. If it gets 
lumpy stir in a little cold water. This will make it smoother. 
Cover and cook 1-2 <>r 3-4 hour. Dip pan in cold water, turn in 
the mush. When cold, slice and fry brown in equal parts butter 
and lard (Sinclair's Fidelity). 

CHEESE RAMKINS. 

Grated Cheese, 4 tablespoons | Yolks of Eggs, 2, 
la little heaping), Whites of Eggs, 3, 

Butter, 'J. tablespoons ia iittlej A little Salt, 

heaping), i A little Cayenne or White 

Milk, 2-3 cup, Pepper, 

As much Bread as the Milk will soak up. 

Remove crust from bread. Heat milk with the broken 
bread soaked in it, then add butter and cheese. Take off the 
stove and add beaten yolks, salt and pepper. Lastly, add 
whites of eggs beaten very stiff and stir very lightly. Put in 
buttered baking dish and hake in a moderate oven. Serve im- 
mediately. Send to table in the same dish in which it is baked. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 59 



5alads and 5alad Dressings 



NOTE ON SALADS. 



Have all ingredients and dressing- ice cold. Keep in the 
refrigerator until ready to serve. Lay vegetables in ice water 
for a time to make them crisp, such as lettuce, celery, cucum- 
bers, cress, dandelion, etc. Lay tomatoes and cabbage on ice. 
Mayonnaise can be kept several days in ice box. Add whipped 
cream when used. Bottled and butter dressings will keep 6 
weeks, adding cream, if wished, when used. In this way a 
salad can be prepared in a short time. Salad oil, dish and 
fork must be very cold in warm weather before beginning to 
make mayonnaise dressing. The lighter preparations can be 
made when wanted for use. For fish salads, the fish should be 
kept on ice until ready to serve. Oysters must be cooked in 
time to get perfectly cold for oyster salad. 

LETTUCE CUPS. 

A tempting way to serve salads when head lettuce or nice 
crisp leaves are not obtainable. Take the larger leaves and fold 
pleats in the edge to bring them up in the shape of jelly cups 
using Japanese toothpicks cut in two to keep them in place. 
Keep in cold place and put salad in them when ready to serve. 

SWEDISH TIMBALS. 

Flour, y 2 pint, | Sugar, V> teaspoon, 

Milk, 1 gill, Saiad Oil or Melted Butter, 1 

Eggs, 2, tablespoon, 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Beat eggs very light and put salt, sugar and milk into them 
and stir the mixture gradually into the flour beating well all 
: lie time to form a smooth batter. Have a kettle of hot, pre- 
pared tat, ( see recipe), dip the tinibal iron in the hot fat, then 



60 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



into your batter and then back ino the fat until it is a light 
brown. The dough that adheres to the outside of the iron forms 
your timbal or cup. Take it out and drop on a paper to absorb 
the grease. They are better the second day after being made. 
Fill with creamed oysters, chicken or meat salad. 



BEAN SALAD. 

Baked Beans, 1 can, Vinegar, 

Onions. | Hard Boiled Eggs, 

Boiled Beets. 

Chop or cut onions rather fine. Place in a dish a layer of 
beans, then a layer of onion, then a layer of beans, then a layer 
of onion alternating until dish is full having beans for the last 
layer. Moisten with vinegar but not enough to be sloppy. Cover 
the top with sliced eggs and beets. Garnish with parsley. 



CABBAGE SALAD No. 1. 

Cabbage, 1 large quart, | Bottled Salad Dressing, 2 ta- 

Grated Horse Radish, 1 table-j blespoons, 

spoon, i Vinegar, 4 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 2 heaping tablespoons. 

Shred the cabbage fine, then measure. Place all of the in- 
gredients together in a dish, stir thoroughly with a fork. No 
salt is required as there is enough in the salad dressing and it 
wants to be crisp. Have cabbage fresh. This is nice to serve 
with Fried Oysters. Garnish the dish with Lettuce or Celery 
Leaves. 

CABBAGE SALAD No. 2. 

Cabbage, 1 quart, Bottled Salad Dressing, 1 cup. 

Celery, j ■_- pint, Sweet Cream, 1-2 cup. 

Chop the cabbage and celery fine, or shred the cabbage and 
cut celery in small pieces. Stir the cream and salad dressing 
together, then mix: it through the cabbage and celery. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 61 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Chicken, 1 quart, j Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

White Crisp Celery, 1 pint. White Pepper, 14 teaspoon, 

Hard Boiled Eggs, 3, | Vinegar, 2 tabelspoons, 

Lemon, 1, j Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Cut up and cook until quite tender a 4 or 5 pound chicken. 
When nearly done add the salt. When done let stand in the 
broth until cool, then take out and pick from the bones. Remove 
the skin and gristle, then shred the chicken in rather small 
pieees. Cut the celery into Vo inch, pieces and dice the eggs. 
Place the chicken, celery and eggs in a dish and add the juice of 
the lemon, pepper and vinegar; stir all together and set in the 
refrigerator until ready to serve, then add enough Mayonnaise 
Dressing to moisten. Pour in a salad dish, placing on top some 
of the Mayonnaise. Garnish with Lettuce or Curled Celery. In- 
stead of Mayonnaise, the other Salad Dressings are very nice 
mixed with whipped or plain cream the same as in Shrimp Salad. 
< Jold Turkey can be used the same way. 



CELERY SALAD. 

Celery, | Chopped Red Bell Pepper,* 1 

Hard Boiled Eggs, 4, teaspoon a little heaping, 

Bottled Salad Dressing. 

Put the celery in ice water to get crisp. Boil eggs 20 min- 
utes then lay in cold water. Do this some time before you are 
ready to make the salad. Wash and clean celery, then take sev- 
eral stalks at a time and with a knife cut rather fine and put in 
a dish. Add the eggs cut in small pieces and the pepper. Then 
add enough salad dressing to wet it thoroughly, and mix together 
by tossing it up with a fork. Have about as much celery as eggs 
when prepared, or you can use more celery when eggs are expen- 
sive. If preferred you can use Mayonnaise Dressing instead of 
the Bottled Salad Dressing. Large stalks or pieces of celery that 
are not nice for the table, are just as good for salad if nicely 
scraped and laid in ice water for a time. Do not waste any, for 
celery that cannot be used for salad is good for soup. 



62 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



CUCUMBEB SALAD. 

Medium Si/, ( > Cucumbers, 2, | Red Bell Pepper, 
Eard Boiled Eggs, <>, Bottled Salad Dressing. 

Boil the eggs 20 minutes, then lay them in cold water. Peel 
the cucumbers, then lay them in ice water. Do this at leasl an 
hour before you wish to make the salad, then slice the cucumbers 
1 .j inch I hick and dice l hem ; the same with the eggs. Tut in your' 
salad dish alternate layers of each, adding each time a little 
finely chopped red bell pepper. Over this pour enough salad 
dressing to nearly cover, or so you can just see it. If preferred 
you can use Mayonnaise Dressing instead of the Bottled Salad 
Dressing. 

DANDELION SALAD. 

Dandelion. 2 quarts, I Butter, size of a walnut. 

Hard Boiled Eggs, 4, Vinegar, 2-3 cup. 

Take young, tender dandelions, wash them thoroughly, Lieu 
cut, i not chop), in rather small pieces and add the chopped 
whites ^\' 2 of the eggs. Lid) the butter and the 2 yolks together 
until it is a smooth paste; then pour over this the hot vinegar. 
When cool, stir it through the dendelions. Slice the other 2 
eggs over the top. Garnish with dendelions after you cut out the 
hud end cut the long ends to about half their length, leaving the 
I'lant in one piece. 

HAM SALAD. 

Chop ham (Sinclair's Fidelity) very fine or put it through 
a meat cutter. Mix with enough Salad Dressing i sec recipe) to 
make it quite moisl but not sloppy. Take a china platter, (the 
size of plate according to the quantity of meat you have), place 
around the edge curled parsley previously washed and dried, 
next to the parsley a row of hard boiled eggs sliced, then heap 
your meat in an oblong mound in the center. This makes a 
pretty dish and uses up hits and pieces of meat that could nor 
o1 herwise be ut ilized. 

If preferred you can cut the eggs in halves, take out the 
volks and mix them with the chopped ham. then fill the whites 
with the ham. Use these to garnish with insiead of the sliced 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK 63 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Lobster, 1 can, Red I>di Pepper, 1 heaping 

Hard Boiled Eggs, 4, teaspoon, 

Vinegar, ' L > cup, j Head Lettuce, 1 cup, 

Bottled Salad Dressing, 1 cup. 

Pick the nice part of the lobster from the membrane and oil, 
and shred it. Dice the eggs; chop the pepper fine, then measure. 
Take the white, crisp part of head lettuce, cut in small pieces, 
then measure. Place lobster, eggs, lettuce and pepper in a dish, 
add the vinegar and Salad Dressing, and toss up with a fork. 

Serve on Lettuce Leaves. Capers may be used the same as in 
Shrimp Salad. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Oysters, 1 pint. j Hard Boiled Eggs, 3, 

White Crisp Celery. 1 pint, Salt, to taste, 

Water, 1 cup, j Pepper, to taste. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Measure the oysters without the liquor, then add water, salt, 
pepper, and conk until the edges curl, (about as you would for a 
slew i. then sel by to cool. When perfectly cold, cut the oysters 
in small pieces. Cut the celery in "■ L > inch pieces and dice the 
eggs. Place oysters, celery and eggs in a dish and strain over 
them ! 2 cup of the liquor the oysters were cooked in ; toss it up 
with a fork and pour in your salad dish. Then place on top the 
Mayonnaise Dressing. If preferred, take 1 large cup of the Bot- 
tled Salad Dressing, add 3 heaping tablespoons of whipped 
cream, stir up gently and place over the salad. This is very nice. 
In the absence of cream that will whip, use plain cream. When 
no Mayonnaise is al hand and oil is liked, stir together 3 table- 
spoons of oil and l! tablespoons of vinegar and mix it through the 
salad before putting on the Dressing with the whipped cream. It 
will resemble Mayonnaise. Garnish with Celery or Lettuce. 



64 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



POTATO SALAD No. 1. 



Cold Boiled Potatoes, 1 
Hard Boiled Eggs, 3, 
Onion, to suit the taste, 
Sour Cream, 1 cup, 
Vinegar, 1 cup, 



qt., 



Raw Egg, 1, 

Butter, 1 tablespoon rounded, 

Mustard, 1 teaspoon, 

Salt, 1 teaspoon, 

Celery Seed, 1 teaspoon. 



Put vinegar, cream, butter and salt in a pan on the stove. 
Beat the egg and add the mustard wet with a little cold water, 
: lieu stir this into the mixture on the stove and boil a little while; 
then strain and add the celery seed. Dice potatoes, then measure. 
Dice eggs ; chop or cut fine the onion. Put in a salad dish a layer 
of potatoes, a layer of eggs, a little onion, then a layer of po- 
tatoes, alternating until all are used. Pour over this the dress- 
ing. If preferred you can use fresh celery instead of celery seed, 
by cutting it fine and sprinkling it between the layers of potato 
and egg. If vinegar is too sour weaken it with a little water. It 
is better if made the day before using. 

POTATO SALAD No. 2. 

Cold Boiled Potatoes, [ French Salad Dressing, 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Peel and boil or steam potatoes until just done and no more. 
Let them get perfectly cold, then dice them. Mix with French 
Salad Dressing and let stand until ready to serve, (an hour or 
longer), then mix with Mayonnaise Dressing No. 1. 

HOT POTATO SALAD. 



Sliced Potatoes, 3 pints, 
Medium Sized Onions, 4, 



Sinclair's Fidelity Bacon, 3 
slices, 
| Flour, 1 tablespoon, 
Vinegar, 1 cup. 

Salt potatoes when boiling. When cold, slice rather thin. 
Place a layer of potatoes in a dish, then a layer of finely chopped 
onions, then potatoes, alternating until the dish is full . Slice 
(Sinclair's Fidelity) bacon very thin, cut in small pieces and fry 
in a spider until crisp and brown, then stir in the flour, then 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 65 



add ilic vinegar and pour this hot dressing over the potatoes, 
Serve hot. This is very nice. It' vinegar is very strong reduce it 
with ;i little water. 

SWEET BREAD SALAD. 

Sweet Breads, L pint, j Vinegar, 1 tablespoons, 

Cucumbers, 1 pint, Salt, 1 teaspoon, 

Salad oil, 4 tablespoons. White Pepper, \-- teaspoon. 

Boil sweet breads about ' ,- hour in water slightly salted, 
then pnll off the outside skin and cut in small pieces. Peel and 
diee cucumbers. Have sweet-breads and cucumbers cold, mix 
them together tossing lightly with a fork, then pour over them 
the oil, vinegar, salt and pepper mixed together. If preferred, 
use the Bottled Salad Dressing instead of the Dressing given in 
this recipe. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Salmon, 1 can, j Hard Boiled Eggs, 3, 

Large Cucumber. 1 , I Bottled Salad Dressing. 

Turn out a can of salmon, pick out and shred the nice parts 
omitting the membrane and oil. Place in a dish, add the cucum- 
ber cut in small pieces or diced which looks nicer, then add the 
eggs diced, and pour over this enough dressing to thoroughly 
wet it; toss up together with a fork. A little of the Red Bell 
Pepper chopped fine may be added according to taste; 2 medium 
sized cucumbers may be used instead of 1 large one. Keep in cool 
place until served. 

SARDINE SALAD. 

Sardines, | Pepper, 

Celery, j Vinegar, 

Salt, ! Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Cut celery into inch lengths, season highly with salt, pep- 
per and vinegar. Heap on a dish and lay sardines about base of 
pile. Pour good Mayonnaise Dressing over it. 



66 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Shrimps, 1 pint, ( Red Bell Pepper, 1 teaspoon, 

Cucumbers, 2-3 pint, j Salt, L-2 teaspoon, 

Vinegar, -\ tablespoons, | Mayonnaise Dressing, 1 cup. 

Pick the shrimps carefully from the shells and break up in 
small pieces; if canned shrimps are used prepare the same way. 
Peel ami dice fresh cucumbers or if you eannot get them use 
v. hire, crisp celery. Place the shrimps and cucumbers in a dish 
and add the finely chopped, red bell pepper, salt and vinegar, stir 
all together and pour in your salad dish, then place on top the 
Mayonnaise Dressing, instead of the Mayonnaise, you can use 1 
cup of either the Butter Dressing or the Bottled Salad Dressing 
and add 2 tablespoons of whipped cream. If desired, the oil can 
he used with the latter dressings by stirring 2 tablespoons with 
the vinegar before adding the vinegar to the salad. Capers may 
be used instead of the red bell pepper, by strewing 1 tablespoon 
of whole capers over the top after the salad is prepared and 
placed in the dish. 

Garnish with Lettuce. This is considered the most delicate 
of Fish Salads. 



TOMATO SALAD No. 1. 

Tomato Juice, 1 pint, | Salt, *4 teaspoon, 

Medium Sized Onion, 1, | Pepper, 14 teaspoon, 

Hay Leaf, 1, | Parsley, 1 sprig, 

Gelatine, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Pour a can of tomatoes in a sieve (or use fresh ones) and 
press gently with a spoon to get out the juice. Slice the onion, 
add tomato juice, bay leaf, parsley, salt, pepper, and cook 10 
minutes, then strain. Add the hot gelatine which you have prev- 
iously soaked in enough cold water to cover it and then set dish 
in hoi water to dissolve it. Dip in moulds wet in cold water and 
cool. Serve on a Lettuce Leaf with Mayonnaise Dressing, or 
Hot tied Salad Dressing with a little whipped cream added to it. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 67 

TOMATO SALAD No. 2. 

Tomatoes, | Head Lettuce, 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Scald and peel solid, ripe, tomatoes and set in refrigerator 
until very cold. Separate head lettuce, wash and place in ice 
water to crisp. Make a Mayonnaise Dressing or use one of the 
other salad dressings with whipped cream. When ready to serve, 
drain the lettuce leaves, place one in each individual dish, then 
on this place 1 tomato ; if too large cut in half, then on one side 
place 1 tablespoon of salad dressing. This makes a delicious and 
attractive dish. 

BUTTER SALAD DRESSING. 

Butter, 1 cup, | Raw Yolks of Eggs, 6, 

Vinegar, y 2 cup, | Cayenne and White Pepper, 

Thin Sweet Cream, 1 cup, 1-3 level teaspoon, 

Salt, % level teaspoon. 

Boil vinegar and butter together in a deep sauce pan. Beat 
yolks light and pour over them gradually boiling vinegar and 
butter still beating. Place mixture on fire and beat until it be- 
gins to thicken, then pour cream in slowly and continue beating 
until it looks like cream or boiled custard. It must not boil or 
it will curdle. Add salt and pepper and beat in a pan of ice 
water until cold. 

BOTTLED SALAD DRESSING. 

Vinegar, iy 2 pints, | Raw Yolks of Eggs, 12, 

Butter, 1-3 teacup, j Mustard, 1 heaping tablespoon 

Sugar, 1 teacup, i Salt, 1 level teaspoon. 

Let the vinegar and butter come to a boil. Beat sugar and 
yolks of eggs together; add the mustard (which has been made 
into a smooth paste with a little cold water) then salt. Stir this 
mixture into the boiling vinegar and stir constantly until it thick- 
ens but do not let it boil. Strain through a wire sieve, put in bot- 
tle or fruit jar and keep in a cool place. It will keep for weeks. 
When wanted for use it is nice to add a little sweet cream or 



68 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

whipped cream and it is nice for any kind of salad, cabbage or 
lettuce. It is convenient to use up the yolks of eggs when mak- 
ing white cake. 

FRENCB SA LAD DRESSING. 

Salad Oil, 3 tablespoons, | Grated Onion, 1 tablespoon, 

Vinegar, 2 tablespoons, | Salt, y^ level teaspoon, 

White Pepper, to taste. 

Stir oil and vinegar together and beat with a fork until 
thick and creamy, then add the other ingredients. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING No. 1. 

Salad Oil, 12 tablespoons:, Mustard, 1 level teaspoon, 

Vinegar, 2 tablespoons, j Pulverized Sugar, 1 level tea- 

Lemon Juice, 2 tablespoons, spoon, 

Yolks of Eggs, 2 tablespoons, j Salt, V 2 level teaspoon, 
Cayenne Pepper, 1 pinch. 

Mix together the yolks of eggs, mustard, sugar, salt, pepper 
and beat. Add the oil, 1 teaspoon at a time until all is used. 
Then add 1 teaspoon of vinegar, then 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, 
then 1 teaspoon of vinegar and so on, until vinegar and lemon 
juice are all used. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING No. 2. 

Raw Yolks of Eggs, 4, | Salt, 2 level teaspoons, 

Hard Boiled Yolks of Eggs, 2 | White Pepper, 1 level teaspoon 
Salad Oil, 4 tablespoons, | Made Mustard, 1 teaspoon, 

Vinegar, 2 tablespoons. 

Put all of the yolks of eggs in a soup plate and beat well, 
then stir in the oil by degrees. When thoroughly mixed, intro- 
duce gradually the salt, then the pepper, then the mustard ; 
(adding the salt earlier coagulates the albumen of the eggs) ; 
the made mustard is dry mustard wet smooth with vinegar or 
water. Add gradually the vinegar. Should it curdle, place on 
ice 30 minutes then stir until smooth. For making both of the 
Mayonnaise Dressings, have the ingredients very cold, also soup 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 69 

plate and silver fork used in putting them together. Always 
stir in the same direction. When finished it should be thick and 
smooth. It is very nice to add 2 heaping tablespoons of whipped 
cream. 

DRESSING FOR COLD SLAW. 

Flour, 1 heaping tablespoon, | Boiling Water, y 2 cup, 
Vinegar, 1 tablespoon, j Melted Butter, 

Pulverized Sugar, y 2 teaspoon, | Salt, 
Mustard, y 2 teaspoon, | Pepper. 

Take flour and enough melted butter to mix it smooth. Then 
add boiling water, sugar, mustard, vinegar and a little salt and 
pepper or Hungarian Paprica. 



70 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Vegetables 



ASPARAGUS. 

Wash and lay in a broad stew pan (without cutting) stalks 
of asparagus, as much as you require. Put on water to just cover 
and cook until tender, about y 2 hour; then drain off water and 
carefully lift out the asparagus on a platter and pour Drawn 
Butter (see recipe i over it, enough to cover well. Serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Cut the asparagus stalks in pieces 1 inch in length. Wash 
and cook in small quantity of water until tender, then add milk 
to cover. Use the proportion of 1 tablespoon of butter and y 2 
tablespoon of flour to 1 pint of milk. Cream the butter and flour 
together, then stir it in the asparagus after the milk is hot, add 
salt and pepper to taste and pour over slices of buttered toast. 1 
cup of cream added before dishing" is an improvement, 

BAKED BEANS. 

Pick over, wash and put to soak over night 1 quart white 
lica us in cold wnter. Drain off water, add fresh water and par- 
boil about 30 minutes. Take out of this water and place in bean 
crock. Wash and score by cutting across the rind both ways with 
a sharp knife y 2 pound (Sinclair's) salt pork. Place on top of 
beans or down in beans. Add 1 tablespoon molasses, 1 teaspoon 
salt, then fill the jar with hot water. Set in moderate oven and 
bake all day or several hours, adding hot water 2 or 3 times dur- 
ing the baking as it cooks out. Toward the last let it dry out so 
they will be moist and creamy. If liked sweeter and browner, 
use more molasses and bake longer. If desired to bake longer, 
par-boil 15 minutes instead of 30. Can be re-heated at any time 
by setting jar in oven. If your bean pot is not covered, use an 
old plate or tin to cover with until nearly done, then remove 
cover and let l>ro\vn. Serve with brown bread. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 71 



CREAM CAULIFLOWER, 

Take a medium sized head aud lay in salt water, to cover, 
an hour or so; have the water pretty salty; leave the head whole, 
tie it up in a piece of cheese cloth and cook about 10 or 15 min- 
utes until tender; try with a fork; it wants to be done but not 
soft enough to mash ; take out and let cool, then break apart the 
little heads and if some are too large cut them; place in dish or 
pan near the stove and make the cream dressing as follows. Take 
a small stew pan and measure in 1 heaping tablespoon of flour 
and 1-3 cup of butter; stir tbjs to a smooth paste, then pour on 
this 1 pint boiling water; let cook a few minutes; add 1 small cup 
of sweet cream and pour over the cauliflower. If not ready to 
serve, stand the dish in a pan of hot water. This is a very deli- 
cate and delicious dish. 

SCALLOPED CORN. 

Fresh Corn, 1 pint, Cracker Crumbs, 1 heaping 

Milk, 1 pint, tablespoon. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon, | Eggs, 1. 

Cut corn from cob by cutting half way through grain and 
then scraping balance off with sharp knife so it will be fine. 
Add milk, beaten egg and salt. Grease baking dish with butter. 
Sprinkle in 1 heaping tablespoon cracker crumbs. Pour in corn 
mixture, sprinkle a few crumbs over top, add a few pieces butter 
and bake ' ■_. hour. Serve in dish it is baked in. This is very 
nice. If canned corn is used, proceed as above. 

!•:<;<; plant. 

Pare and cut in slices ' 2 inch thick. Sprinkle with salt, 
coyer and let stand for an hour. Rinse in cold water. Wipe each 
slice dry and dip first in beaten egg and then in rolled cracker 
or bread crumbs. Season with salt and pepper and fry in bul 
tor. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Break 1 pint macaroni into inch lengths. Place in stew- 
pan with enough cold water to cover and cook until tender. 



72 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

about ' •_- hour. Grate I cup cheese or cut iu small pieces if too 
new and rich to grate. Take a baking dish, grease with butter 
and put in a layer of macaroni, then one of cheese, a few bits of 
butter, (using 2 tablespoons to this amount) then macaroni, 
cheese and butter until dish is full. Pour in milk to just cover. 
Strew over the top ' •_• cup cracker crumbs and bits of butter. 
Bake ' - hour, having it brown on top. 

OYSTER PLANT. 

Scrape and cut in pieces H, inch thick and throw in cold 
water to keep it white. Wash out and cook in (dear water until 
tender, about ' •_. hour. Drain off the water and add for 1 pint 
of vegetable, I quarl milk. Cream I desertspoon each butter and 
Hour and stir into vegetable, adding salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve hoi. This vegetable has an oyster flavor, is cheap and 
nice for a change. 

CREAMED ONIONS. 

Peel and throw in cold water medium si/.cd while onions, 
wash out and cook in water to cover. AiU\ 1 teaspoon salt for > 
pints onions. When tender, pour off the water and add 1 pint 
milk. Cream together! heaping tablespoon butter and 1 heap- 
ing teaspoon flour. Stir this in the onions very carefully so no! 
to mash them. If not salt enough, add more and a dash of pep 
per. They are delicious and very white. 

GREEfl PEAS. 

Procure peas as fresh as possible and of a good variety, cook 
by the following process and you will have a delicious dish. For 
I quarl shelled peas, put in a stew pan a piece of butter as large 
as an egg. When melted (not browned I pour in your peas and 
add I teaspoon a little heaping sugar and I level teaspoon salt. 
Stir with large spoon until they turn a bright green, then pour 
on enough boiling water to cover, not too much a s a littel can he 
added while cooking. There should he about a cup of juice on 
them when done. Cover and cook until tender. If good, I hey 
will look a little shriveled. I'ul in a good half cup sweet cream. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 73 



A poor quality of peas is much improved by cooking in this man- 
ner. The cream should be omitted if to be served with lamb. 

BAKED POTATOES. 

Cut potatoes in halves, lengthwise, spread with butter, dust 
with salt and pepper and lay on each half a thin slice of che= 
Place in pan and bake in hot oven until soft. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake large potatoes until done. Cut a cap from the top of 
each and scrape out inside carefully and mash soft with butter 
and milk. Mince chicken or giblets of chicken, then season with 
salt and pepper and stir in the potatoes with beaten yolk of an 
egg. Heat this in a sauce pan until very hot, then fill the skins, 
replace the tops and set in the oven for 3 minutes. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES. 

Stir together 1 quart cold cooked potatoes chopped rather 
fine, t level teaspoon salt. ' - teaspoon pepper and 1 teaspoon 
minced parsley. Place in frying pan 1 tablespoon butter and 1 
tablespoon lard, (Sinclair's Fidelity). When smoking hot put 
in the potatoes. When fried about 5 minutes, stir thoroughly. 
press down flat and let fry 15 or 20 minutes covered. When 
ready to serve, slip a knife under the edges to loosen from pan. 
put a plate over the top and turn upside down. Have it brown 
on the bottom. 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Peel potatoes and slice very thin. Let lay in cold water 
several hours or over night. Wash out of water and lay on a 
(doth to drain. Pat them with the cloth to (\vy thoroughly. Have 
a kettle \/o full of prepared fat (see recipe) or use Sinclair's 
Pidelity lard. When boiling hot, throw in a few slices of potato 
ai a time, stirring around so the\ will not cook together. If you 
pul in too many it will cool the lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) and 
i hey will not brown. Pry about 10 minutes or until they seem 
tender. I '' the lard (Sinclair's Fidelity.) is hot enough they will 
crisp after taking out. Sprinkle with salt while hot. A little 



74 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

practice will soon enable you to make them just right. They can 
be made any time and set in the oven to heat when wanted. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Diced Potatoes, 3 pints, | Flour, iy 2 heaping tablespoons 

Milk, iy 2 pints, j Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Cream. y 2 cup, i Salt, to taste. 

Paisley. 1 teaspoon, j Pepper, to taste. 

Pare and boil or si earn potatoes, not too soft, just done. 
When cold, dice them. Place milk in double boiler and when 
hot add butter and flour previously creamed together. Stir 
until thick. Add potatoes, minced paisley, salt, pepper and 
cream. Serve hot. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Roil potatoes and when cold peel and dice. Slice 1 onion 
and fry in 2 tablespoons drippings or butter to a light brown, 
then add iy 2 quarts diced potatoes, 1 level teaspoon salt and l / 2 
teaspoon white pepper. Pry about 10 minutes and add a little 
minced parsley. Si ir and serve hoi . 

SCALLOPED POTATOES No. 1. 

Potatoes, 1 quart, | Butter, 1 tablespoon (a little 

Milk, 1 cup, heaping). 

Flour, 1 teaspoon, | Salt, l / 2 teaspoon, 

Pepper, 14 teaspoon. 

Pare and cook the potatoes, then dice them and place in bak- 
ing dish; boil the milk thickened with the flour wet smooth with 
cold milk; add the butter, pepper and salt; pom- this over the 
potatoes.; cover top with cracker crumbs and a few bits of butter; 
bake iM> minutes. Foi a change, strew some grated cheese over 
t he top with crackers. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES No. 2. 

Pare and slice thin the desired quantity of potatoes; let lie 
in cold water an hour or so; drain on (doth, then place a layer of 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 75 



potatoes in dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper, a little rolled cracker 
and a few bits of butter; then another layer of potatoes and sea- 
soning, and so on until the dish is full. Pour in sweet milk so 
you can see it but not quite cover them. Cover the top with 
cracker crumbs and bits of butter and bake 1 hour. 

TO COOK OLD POTATOES. 

Old potatoes can be made to look like new ones by changing 
the water 3 times while cooking, adding cold water each time. 
When tender, drain and make cream gravy same as for new po- 
tatoes. 

FRICASSEED SWEET POTATOES. 

Pare small sweet potatoes (if large, cut in two once or 
twice i and throw in cold water or they will turn black. For 
about 2 quarts of the potatoes use 1 heaping tablespoon of brown 
sugar, 1 teaspoon a little heaping of salt and iy 2 pint's of water 
i very dry ones may require a little more water), cover close and 
cook until you can puncture them with a fork, then add 14 cup 
of butter. Be very careful not to cook until too soft. Now set 
them back on the range where they will brown slowly. If there 
should be too much water when done, do not pour it off, but re- 
move cover and let it simmer on top of the stove and they will 
soon stew dry. A good way to do is to put them on a little early, 
allowing 1 hour for the process. You cannot hurry them or they 
will burn. The under pieces can be lifted up to the sides so the 
top ones can brown too. If they stew dry before tender, add a 
little more hot water. A little practice will soon enable you to 
get them just right, then you will have a dish fit for a king. They 
are also economical in that the small potatoes that are too small 
to bake are just as dice. Any that are left over can be fried alone 
or mixed with white ones and fried. 

SCALLOPED SQUASH. 

Squash, 2 cups, | Eggs, 2, 

31 ilk, 1 2 cup, Salt, to taste, 

Bread Crumbs, y 2 cup, j Pepper, to taste, 

Melted I '.utter, 1 tablespoon. 
Cook squash, rub through a sieve and then measure. Add to 



76 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

i his the beaten eggs, butter, milk, salt and pepper and stir 
thoroughly and pour into a buttered baking dish. Put crumbs 
over lop and bake ' 2 hour. Then remove cover and brown lightly. 
Send to (aide in 1 be baking dish. 

Cold boiled squash can be utilized as above. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Grease ;i baking dish with butter and then put in a layer of 
tomatoes previously peeled and sliced, a sprinkling of salt and 
pepper, then Cine bread or cracker crumbs and a few pieces of 
butter. Use about ' _ as much crackers as tomatoes. Put in an- 
other layer of tomatoes and continue nntil dish is full. Finish 
with crumbs placing hits of butter on top. Bake y 2 hour. Serve 
in the dish it is baked in. Canned tomatoes may be prepared in 
the same way. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Take ripe, smooth tomatoes, about medium size, cut round 
hide out at the stem and with a teaspoon scrape out part of the 
inside, say about ' •_.. Take 1 cup tine bread crumbs for 8 to- 
matoes, 1 tablespoon melted butter, a little salt and pepper. Mix 
the seasoning in the crumbs and moisten with a little sweet 
<i-eani and fill cavity in tomatoes rounding full. Place in a pan 
and add ' - cup water and a few bits butter. Set in a hot oven 
and hake 20 or 30 minutes. Do not lei them get too soft. Dish 
in individual dishes, dipping some of the juice from the pan over 
each one. Any kind of seasoning that is liked may be added to 
the ingredients. 

OliEAMED TURNIPS. 

Peel and cut in dice good, sweet turnips. Cook in small 
quantity water until tender. Pour off the water and add milk 
to just cover. Cream 1 tablespoon butter and 1 teaspoon flour 
together. (This for 1 quarl turnips). Stir in the milk, stirring 
until it thickens, add salt and pepper to taste and a pinch of 
sugar. For mashed turnips, peel and slice and cook until the 
water is all cooked away if possible instead of pouring off. When 
tender, mash and season with butter, pepper and salt and a little 
sweei cream. 



RELIABLE COOK HOOK. 77 



Pies 



PUFF PASTE. 



Flour, 1 pound, Butter, 1 pound, 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Wash butter in cold water until it feels waxy, then divide 
into 3 pieces and pat these in the hand until flat, thin cakes are 
formed. Drop pats in Lee water. Have rolling pin and board 
as cold as possible. Dip bands first in hot, then in cold water. 
Take one of the pats of butter, dry it on a cloth and with 
the hands work it into the flour, keeping plenty of flour between 
the butter and fingers. Work very lightly. Stir ice water into 
the flour and when about 1-3 flour is mixed lake it; on board and 
repeat with the second portion of flour, and repeat again with 
the third portion and press all lightly in a ball. Pat down with 
;; rolling pin, roll from yon and to the sides until the piece is 
about ' L . inch thick. Take a piece of butter from the ice water 
and dry with a cloth. Dredge a little flour on one side of the 
board, lay butter on i1 and roll with rolling pin. Lay butter in 
the center of paste, fold sides of paste over butter until they al- 
most meet, Fold ends over sides of butter until they meet. Then 
double again. With the thick end toward you roll or pound 
with rolling pin until a long, thin strip is formed. Then lay on 
the other piece of butter and repeat the folding and rolling. 
Then place on ice in the refrigerator until thoroughly chilled, 
when cut and bake. The paste may be made the day before and 
placed in the refrigerator over night, 

PIE CRUST No. 1. 

Flour, 3 cups, | Butter and (Sinclair's Fideli- 

Salt, 1 teaspoon, ity) Lard mixed, 1 cup. 

Sugar, y 2 teaspoon. 

Put flour into a deep bowl with salt and sugar. Chop short- 



78 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

ening into flour with chopping knife until well mixed. Add just 
enough water to hold paste together. 

PIE CRUST No. 2. 

Flour, 1^ pints. j Salt, y 2 teaspoon, 

Lard, (Sinclair's Fidelity), % | Sugar, y 2 teaspoon, 
pint, 

Sugar, i 2 teaspoon. 

Eave the lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) very cold, mix lightly 
through the flour with salt and sugar. Then pour in ice water 
enough to wet most of the flour, leaving a good y 2 cup of lard 
(Sinclair's Fidelity) and flour crumbs. Take out on the board 
what you have mixed together, handling it as little as possible, 
just enough to get it in shape to roll out. For the under crust, 
roll out huge enough to cover the edge of pie tin. Put in your 
filling. Roll out top crust and place y 2 of the crumbs left from 
your crust on this and roll again until the desired thickness. This 
makes the crust flaky and tender. Wet the edge of the first 
crust with the fingers dipped in cold water, place on the top 
crust, press down closely, and finish with a cloth as directed in 
cherry pie. This quantity of crust will make 2 medium sized 
pi's. If a richer crust is desired, use a little more lard 
Sinclair's Fidelity). If more crust is mixed than is used, place 
in a bowl, cover with a damp cloth and set in ice box. It 'will 
keep - <>r 3 days. 

APPLE PIE. 

Pare and slice thin, tart apples, enough to fill rounding full 
deej) pie tin, lined with crust ; strew on 1 small cup of sugar, add 
about 3 tablespoons water, 1 level teaspoon cinnamon and a few 
small bits •>(' butter; place on crust and proceed same as berry 
pie; bake in moderate oven until crust is light brown and apples 
seem done. Serve with <jood cheese. 



s>^ 



BANANA PIE. 

Line a deep pie tin with good pie crust, (see recipe), letting 
it come up well around the edge. Bake. When cool, peel and 
slice enough bananas to fill it rounding full: sprinkle over the 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 79 



top about ] o cup powdered sugar. Cut in pieces like other pies, 
and place on each piece Whipped cream. Very nice and easily 
made. 

BANANA CREAM PIE. 

Line pie plate with crust and rim. Fill with sliced bananas. 
Beat the yolk of 1 egg with 1-3 cup sugar. Add 1 teaspoon 
orange extract and 1 cup cream or rich milk. Pour this over 
bananas and bake. Cover with a meringue made of the whites 
of 3 eggs beaten stiff with 3 tablespoon powdered sugar and 
flavor with orange extract. 



BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Proceed same as in Black Raspberry Pie, using blackberries 
intsead of raspberries. 

BLUEBERRY PIE. 

Pick over carefully and wash fresh blueberries, enough to 
fill pie tin an inch deep; strew on 1 small cup of sugar, 2 table- 
spoons vinegar and 1 A cup water ; place on top crust and proceed 
same as other berry pies. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Make a crust, i see recipe i. roll and place in rather deep pie 
tin; pit the cherries; fill the tin nearly full and strew on 1 cup 
of sugar; wet the edge with cold water; place on top crust and 
pinch down closely around the edge. Take a strip of white mus- 
lin (old will do) about V 2 inches wide, dip in cold water, 
squeeze dry, and holding it with one hand, with the other hand 
stretch it around the edge as tightly as possible, pressing it 
smooth on the crust and underneath. After the pie is baked re- 
move the cloth carefully. This is the only sure way I have ever 
found to keep the juice from stewing out in the oven, and all 
housekeepers know what a mess that makes, besides spoiling the 
pie. 



80 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Yolks of Eggs, 4, .Milk 1 ' ._. pints, 

Chocolate, 3 heaping table- | Corn Starch, 2 heaping table- 
spoons, spoons, 

Sugar, •"> lica ping tablespoons. 

Line tins with crust (see recipe), and bake for the shells. 
Place milk in double boiler and wet corn starch smooth with a 
little cold milk. Separate eggs and beat yolks with sugar and 
add to the corn starch. Stir this into the hot milk. Grate choco- 
late and wet smooth with hot water and add to the mixture. 
stirring until thick. Pill the shells. 

FROSTING. 

Whites of Eggs, 4, | Sugar, 2 heaping tablespoons. 

Beat whites id i stiff froth and add sugar. Spread on top of 
pie and brown lightly in oven. This will make 2 pies. 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE. 

Break 3 eggs in a dish, leaving out the whites of 2; add t<» 
these 2 heaping tablespoons of sugar and beat; then add I 1 - 
pints of rich milk. Pour in deep pie tin lined with pie crust, and 
si t-ew in 2 tablespoons of cocoanut. Bake until crust is done and 
custard set. Beat the 2 white* to a stiff froth, adding 1 heaping 
tablespoon of sugar and a few drops of rose or orange to flavor. 
spread on top and strew with sugar and cocoanut. Set in the 
oven and brown lightly. Serve cold. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Pick over and wash the berries; add 1 quart of water to 1 of 
berries; stew in granite kettle 20 or 30 minutes; add iy 2 cup of 
sugar and let boil up, remove and let cool; line shallow pie tin 
with pie crust or puff paste, dip in the cranberries an inch or so 
thick, then roll out crust and cut in V 2 inch strips, twist them 
and lay across the pie both ways to form diamonds or squares; 
bake quickly so the crust will be crisp. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 81 



CURRANT PIE. 

Currants make nice pie when full grown, just before turning 
ripe, or if preferred use ripe ones. Stem, wash and fill pie tin 
about an inch thick; strew on 1 cup sugar and 1-3 cup water; put 
on top crust and proceed same as berry pie. 

PLAIN CUSTARD PIE. 

To 3 eggs beaten with 2-3 cup of sugar add 1 pint rich 
sweet milk. Line deep pie tin with crust, fill with the mixture, 
grate nutmeg over the top and bake in moderate oven. 'Too long 
or too fast baking will make it watery. 

GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Stem and wash enough berries to till pie tin lined with crust; 
strew on 1 cup sugar and about 1-3 cup water ; this with the sugar 
and juice of the berries generally makes the pie juicy enough ; 
put on top crust and proceed same as other berry pie. Full grown, 
partly ripe, wild gooseberries do not take as much sugar as tame 
ones and are finer flavored ;they are also nice canned for win- 
ter use. Bake the pie a little longer than the raspberry pie. 

TWO CRUST LEMON PIE. 

Line pie tin with crust, (see recipe. ) Put in crust first 1 cup 
sugar and then the grated yellow of 1 large lemon. Do not get 
in any of the white. Then peel off the white rind close to the 
pulp, slice very thin, place these over sugar and strew over it a 
very scant 1/ - 2 cup flour, 1 tablespoon butter cut in small pieces, 
add 1 cup cold water and place on the top crust, securing edges 
closely as directed for other pies. Bake in rather hot oven until 
light brown. It will cook together like jelly and be very nice. 

LEMON CREAM PIE No. 1. 

For the shells make a Pie Crust, (see recipe), roll, place in 
a deep pie tin letting it conic up well around the edge to form a 



82 RELIABLE COOK HOOK. 



rim ;in<! bake in ;i quick oven, then put in the following 
filling : 

Lemons, 2, | Eggs, 3, 

Sugar, li ._, cups, Flour, 2 heaping tablespoons. 

Water, 2 cups. I Butter, 1 teaspoon. 

Grate the yellow rind of the Lemons (being careful not to 

gel in any of the white or ii will be bitter), and squeeze out the 
juice. Stir sugar and flour together, then add the beaten yolks 
of eggs, beal this thoroughly, then add juice and grated rind of 
i he lemons, water and butter. Place this in a double boiler and 
cook until thick, stirring often. When cool, pour in shells. Beat 
the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, then add 2 tablespoons sugar 
and spread over the top and set in oven until a delicate brown. 
This makes 1 large, thick pie or 2 small ones. 

If preferred, the filling can be put in before the crust is 
baked, then bake. I like the former best. 

LEMON CREAM PIE No. 2. 

Lemons, 1, | Eggs, 3, 

Sugar, 1 coffee cup. Flour, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Water, 1 coffee cup, | Melted Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Proceed the sam< as in Lemon Cream Pie No. 1. If the 
lemons are small use 2. This makes 1 emdium size pie. P>otk of 
these recipes are very nice. 

ORANGE PIE. 

St ir together 1 coffee cup of sugar ami 1 heaping tablespoon 
of flour, then add the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, 2 tablespoons 
of a i died butter, the juice of y> lemon, the juice of 2 oranges and 
the grated rind of 1. Line a deep pie tin with crust, (see recipe), 
letting it come up will around the edge, pour in the mixture and 
bake in a quick oven until the crust is a light brown and the 
filling like custard. Remove from oven. Peat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth, then add 2 tablespoons of sugar and beat 
again, then spread < ver the top and set in oven until a light 
brown. Serve cold. Tins quantity makes 1 large pie or 2 small 
ones. 



KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 83 



PEACH PIE. 

Peel and cut in small pieces good ripe peaches; place in deep 
pie tin lined with crust (see recipe), aboul level full; strew <>n 1 
cup of sugar and small ' •_. cup of water; place on top crust and 
finish same as berrj pie; bake in moderate oven until crust is 
brown. 



PIEPLANT PIE. 

Peel or scrape the outside of the stalks of the pieplant, cu1 
in l /2 ' ll< ''' pieces, pour on boiling water and let stand while you 
make the crust. Line deep pie tin with crust, drain the water 
from the pieplant and fill the crust rounding full, then add 1 
heaping teaspoon flour, 1 cup "C" sugar, a few small hits of but- 
ter and 3 tablespoous of water; wet the edge, place on top crust 
ami finish same as berry pie; hake in rather hot oven until a 
nice brown. 



PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Sugar, 1 cup, Butter, l / 2 cup, 

Sweet Cream, 1 cup, Eggs, .">, 

1 Pineapple of medium size or 1 can chopped 
fine. (Grated pineapple can he used i. 

LJeat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the yolks, then the 
other ingredients, reserving the whites. Bake with one crust and 
when done heat the whites to a stiff froth with 2 heaping tahle- 
spoons of sugar and spread over the top. Brown lightly in the 
oven. This will make 2 pies and are delicious. 



PUMPKIN PIE. 

Peel and cut in pieces a Boston Marlow Squash (pumpkin 
-•an he used if preferred). Stew until tender in a closely covered 
kettle, using 1 quart of water to a medium sized squash. Then 
mash and let simmer until rather dry. While simmering add U 2 
cup Orleans Molasses and 1 teaspoon -,\ little heaping of salt. 



84 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Then rub through a fruit strainer or sieve. For 1 pie use the 
f (Lowing: 

S< | uash, 1 coffee cup, Sweet Milk, 1 pint, 

Sugar, ! 2 coffee cup, ( 'iunamon, 1 heaping teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2, Ginger, l / 2 level teaspoon. 

Heat sugar and eggs together, then add the other ingred- 
ients. Pour into your crust, grate a little nutmeg over the top 
and hake in a moderate oven. Use a deep pan. Put away in a 
cool place the squash that is left and it will keep to use another 
day. 



BLACK RASPBERRY PIE. 

Make a crust (see recipe I and line deep pie tin, letting it 
come up over the edge and remain until top crust is put on; fill 
the tin level full, or rounding full if liked pretty thick, with 
fresh berries; strew on 1 cup of sugar, wet the edge with cold 
water, place on top crust, press down closely and trim the edges; 
then place the cloth around as directed in cherry pie; bake in 
rather hot oven until crust is a light brown. A little experience 
will soon teach vou. 



RED RASPBERRY PIE. 

Place Vi't\ raspberries in curst same as for Black Raspberry 
Pie; then add 2 or 3 tablespoons of currant juice, 1 cup of sugar 
and ] 1- cup of water, and proceed same as with Cherry Pie. The 
currant juice may be omitted, but it gives a better flavor; the 
combination is fine. 

Prepare the currant juice as for jelly; add 1 pint of sugar 
ti> 1 quart of juice and let come to a boil; skim and put in a stone 
or glass jar. It will keep through the berry season and may be 
used for pies or sauce. Keep in a cool place. This is the same as 
used in canning red raspberries, jelly and jam. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 85 



Apples, chopped, 


5 " 


Vinegar, 


1 « 


Suet, chopped, 


1 


Seeded Raisins, 


o u 

-J 


Seedless Raisins, 


1 


Sugar, 


2 " 


Molasses, (Light Orleans, 1 qt, 


Fruit Juice, 1 quart, 




Jell, 1 cup, 




Spiced Fruit Syrups 


, 1 pint, 



MINCEMEAT. 

Molasses, (Light Orleans) 1 qt. | Lemons, (juice and grated 

peel ) , 3, 
j Citron, chopped not too fine, 

1 pound, 
) Candied Orange Peel, V2 lb., 
I Candied Lemon Peel, y 2 lb. 
I Cinnamon, 2 heaping table- 
spoons. 
, (Moves, 1 heaping tablespoon, 
I Allspice, 1 heaping tablespoon, 
Mace, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Mix all the above thoroughly. 

Fight pounds neck of beef cooked slowly. Let it simmer 
down so there is not much water when done. Let stand in the 
juice until cold. Take up and set by until next day. Chop fine, 
then measure. Pan 1 apples, chop and measure. This will make 
.'! gallons. Keep in a cool place in a stone jar. Freeze if pos- 
sible. It will not ferment as when mixed with cider. The lemons 
can be added when the pies are baked, or omitted. If too thick, 
when using thin with cider, fruit juices or sweetened vinegar 
and water. Brandy can be added if desired. Mincemeat is nice 
canned. Make boiling hot and seal up in fruit jars, then some 
cold day late in the spring, make your pies and you will find 
them delicious. 

TO PREPARE ELDERBERRIES FOR PIES. 

Take 7 pounds berries, 3 pounds sugar and 1 pint good 
vinegar and boil all together until the syrup is rich and thick. 
Thev may be used immediately or canned. • 



86 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Puddings, Pudding 5auces 
and Deserts 



NOTE OX DESERTS. 



The lighter deserts, such as ices, ice cream, sherbets, fruit 
deserts, Light puddings, fresh fruits, etc., should be served in hot 
winner, leaving the rich puddings, mince pies, etc.. for winter. 
Buy a good ice cream freezer, ii is money well spent as you can 
make so many inexpensive deserts which are delicious, superior 
n» what we buy and for 1-3 the price. 

My way is to prepare whatever kind I am going to make and 
put it in the freezer. Place the cover in position, adjust the 
crank. Have a burlap or grain bag in which put the ice and 
pound with an ax until in rather small pieces. Pack in the 
freezer firs: ;; layer of ice, then coarse salt, then ice and sa on 
until filled. Pse twice as much ice as salt. Turn the handle 
until it is difficult to move. Wipe off the lid and remove. Pull 
ion the dasher, scrape it off and with a wooden paddle heat 
cream 5 minutes, pack down smooth and replace cover. Remove 
cork from mi f .' Inb and drain off the water and ad-! more sail 
and ice and then cover the tub with a piece id' carpet and set 
away nut il wanted t .» serve. 

Ices and -duM-'i-i s are easily made an dnot expensive. I :\i]y 
fingers, wafers, plain cake, sponge cake or cookies are sufficient 
for every day to serve with ices, sherbets or ice cream. If lor 
company any id' the richer cakes can be used. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 87 



APPLE BIRD'S NEST. 

Tarl Apples, Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon a 

Flour, 1 pint, little heaping, 

Butter, size of a walnut. Cinnamon, 

Sugar, j Water. 

Pare, quarter and core enough tart apples to fill rounding 
full a deep pie tin. For the dough, rub together the flour, but- 
ter and baking powder; wet this with water enough to make a 
soft dough, using a spoon or knife, then spread the dough over 
the apples with a knife, fas it must be very saft). Bake about y 2 
the apples * itli a "rife, las it must be very soft). Bake about ! -j 
a large plate, sprinkle on enough sugar to sweeten, dust a little 
cinnamon over it and put on a few small pieces of butter. Set in 
the oven a few minutes, then serve with cream. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a good biscuit dough, (see recipe). Pare, cut in halves 
and core, good, tart apples, as many as you wish to make. Take 
a piece of the dough, enough to cover 1 apple, roll out and place 
in this y 2 :; i i li( ' *'' n 'J m the hole from which seeds wor? rcmovfid 
place 3 fat raisins, a small bit of butter and i ■_> teaspoon sugar.' 
Place other half of apple over this piece and press the dough 
nicely around it like an apple. Place in a wide granite pan 
greased with butter and When all are made set in rather a hot 
oven. In about 20 minutes or when the dough is raised and just 
right to brown, pour over them y 2 cup sugar and L-3 cup butter 
dissolved in 1 pint hoi water for 8 or 9 dumplings. Cover the 
pan and place a grate underneath if the oven bakes fast on the 
boitom. Bake 34 iiour, letting the fire cool down toward the 
last. Less time will do if apples cook quickly. The crust should 
be light but not hard. Serve with cream, sugar and nutmeg 
mixed together for a dip. 



88 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



APPLE SNOW. 

Large Sour Apple, 1, | Pulverized Sugar, 1 teacup, 

Whites of Eggs, 2. 

Peel and grate apple. Sprinkle sugar over it as you grate, 
to keep it from turning dark. Add the whites of eggs beaten to 
a :^ iff froth and heat it constantly for */2 lion: When beaten 
light serve with cream. 

TO SERVE BANANAS. 

Peel and slice S bananas. Squeeze over them the juice of 1 
lemon. Add 1 teaspoon water and y 2 cup powdered sugar. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD. 

Eggs, 2, New Milk, iy 2 pints, 

Sugar, 2 heaping tablespoons, j Cocoanut, y 2 teacup, 
Butter, a few small bits. 

Beat eggs and sugar together, then add milk. Pour in a 
dish or pan, strew the cocoanut over the top, then the butter. Set 
disli in pan ' •_> fuli of hot water and bake until ttio custard is 
thick or set; (you can try it with a knife) ; too long or too rapid 
baking makes any kind of custard watery. 

CUP CUSTARD. 

Eggs, 7, | New Milk, 

Sugar, 1 cup, j Nutmeg. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together, then add enough milk so 
the mixture will fill 8 cups. Grate nutmeg over the top of each 
cup. Set the cups in a long dripping pan y 2 full of hot water and 
L»aI T e in a moderate < a en. as they arc more delicate not to brown. 
As soon as the custard is set remove. When cold serve in the 
s;ime cups. When baking wihite cake you can use the yolks of 
eggs for this custard, allowing 6 or 7 yolks and 1 whole egg to 8 
cups. Proceed the same. It is delicious and agrees with people 
who cannot eat custard made anv other way. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 89 



CORN STARCH BLANC MANGE. 

Sweet Milk, 1 quart, Corn Starch, 2 heaping table- 

Eggs, 2, spoons, 

Sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Heat milk on stove. Beat sugar and eggs together, then add 
corn starch dissolved in a little water. When milk comes to a 
boil stir in the above mixture. When thick, pour in cups or 
moulds which have been wet in cold water (to prevent sticking). 
Serve cold with sweetened cream flavored with vanilla. A few 
canned blackberries, raspberries or strawberries placed in the 
side of the dish with the Blanc Mange before you pour on the 
cream makes a nice addition. 



CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

Milk, iy 2 pints> | Corn Starch, 2 heaping table- 

Yolks of Eggs, 2, spoons, 

Sugar, 3 heaping tablespoons, j Grated Chocolate, 3 heaping 

tablespoons. 

Grate chocolate and dissolve in a little of the warm milk, 
then add it to the rest of the milk and put together and serve 
the same as Corn Starch Blanc Mange. 



COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Flour, 1 pint, | Melted Butter, 4 tablespoons, 

Milk, 1 cup, Baking Powder, 3 tablespoons, 

Sugar, y 2 cup, | Eggs, 2. 

Beat sugar and eggs together, then add the other ingredients. 
Bake 1 •_, hour in a buttered pan, like loaf cake. Serve with sweet- 
ened cream. If wanted a little nicer, stir in the batter 1 teacup 
sliced or canned peaches. 



90 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



CHANTILLY PUDDING. 

Sifted Powdered Sugar, 1 cup, | Orange, 1, 
Flour, 1 cup, j linking' Powder. 1 teaspoon, 

Eggs, 5. 

( irate orange find and add juice and let stand until you beat 
yolks of eggs and sugar very light. Add orange juice and beat 
5 minutes more. Add whiles of eggs beaten to ;i stiff froth, then 
baking powder and flour mixed and stir lightly. Turn into a 
border mould and bake about oil minutes in modefate oven. Turn 
out and when cold fill with Charlotte Russe ma'deas follows: 

Cream, 1 pint, | Powdered Sugar, y 2 cup, 

Vanilla. 1 teaspoon, j Gelatine, 1 i l>ox. 

Soak gelatine in a little cold water and set on the stove to 
i-solve. Add sugar and flavoring, then cream whipped. 



FIG PUDDING. 

Figs, 1 pound, j Milk, 1 cup, 

Eggs, •"». ! Suet, 1 cup, 

Nutmeg, 1, .Molasses, 1 en]). 

Soda, 1 teaspoon, Flour, 3 cups. 

< Jinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Chop suet then measure. Cut figs in small pieces. >. r W tigs, 
suet' and molasses, ,\iu\ flour, milk and spices. Wet soda with 1 
tablespoon hot water. Add to the mixture. Lastly add eggs well 
beaten. Divide in 4 1-pound baking powder cans well greased. 
Place in steamer and steam 3 hours. Turn carefully out on a 
plate Slice and serv^ hot with any liquid sauce preferred. This 
is »ery nice. In co'd weather can be kept on hand ami used on 
.-hoit notice by placing in steamer to heat through about * ■_. hour. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 91 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Gmham Flour, 2 cups, Seedless Raisins, 1 cup, 

Sweet Milk, 1 cup. Baking Powder, 2 heaping tea- 

Molasses, 1 cup, spoons. 

You can use chopped cooking raisins instead of the seedless 
rai.-ms. Stii ingred'ents all together and steam 3 hours. Serve 
with Strawberry Sauce. 

HICKORY NUT PUDDING. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Baking Powder. 2 teaspoons, 

Butter, 2-3 cup, Sweet Milk, 1 cup, 

Seedless Raisins, 1 cup, | As much dry cake as milk will 

Nut Meats, (chopped), 1 cup, | . soak up, 
Eggs, <i yolks or 3 whole ones. 

Cream the butter and sugar; add the other ingredients and 
enough flour to make soft batter — rather thin. Steam 3 hours in 
tube pan. Serve with lemon or any sauce you prefer. This is ex- 
eellent, and any left over can be steamed and used for another 
dinner. 

PRUNE PUDDINC 

Prunes, 20, I Whites of Eggs, 6, 

Sugar, y 2 cup, t Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Stew prunes and remove the pits. Beat whites of eggs very 
I if. Stir ingredients .ill together lightly. P^t in pudding dish, 
set in pan of hot water and bake !-> hour. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

PLUMPUDDINd. 



Flour, 2 cups, 
Suet, 1 cup, 
Sweet Milk, 1 cup, 
.Molasses, 1 cup, 
1 >ate-, 1 cup, 
Raisins, 1 cup heaping. 

Mace, 1 teaspoon. 

^rc(\ and chop r;iisius, chop dates and suet. St ir ingredients 
nil together and stean 2V> hours. Serve with any k ; ;<! of snuce. 



Bread Crumbs, 1 cup, 
Salt, ' 2 teaspoon, 
Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon, 

Cloves, 1 teaspoon. 

Soda, 1 tablespoon a little 



92 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Flour, J o pound, Currants, 1 pound, 

Suet, 1 pound, | Orange Peel, y 2 pound, 

Bread Crumbs, 3-4 pound, ( Ira ted Rind of Lemon, 1, 

Brown Sugar, 1-4 pound, | Eggs, 5, 

Raisins, 1 pound, j Brandy, V2 pint, 

Nutmeg, 1. 

Chop suet, seed raisins, wash currants, mince orange peel, 
beat eggs, then mix all the ingredients together. Boil or steam in 
moulds 6 hours. When wanted for use steam until thorough hot 
and serve with Brandy Sauce. This will make 6 pounds. 

PLAIN STEAMED PUDDING. 

Sweet Milk, 1 coffee cup, Eggs, 3, 

Flour, 2 coffee cups, J Melted Butter, 2 tablespoons, 

Sugar, io coffee cup, Baking Powder, 1 tablespoon, 

Seedless Raisins, 1 coffee cup, | (heaping) 

Beat eggs thoroughly and stir ingredients altogether. Steam 
35 or 40 minutes and serve with Wine Sauce. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Cut in halves, good, ripe pears. Remove cores. Do not peel. 
Place in broad granite or tin pan. Sprinkle with sugar, about 1 
pint for 12 pears. Dissolve 2 tablespoons of any kind of jelly 
(quince or apple combine nicely with pears), in I 1 - pints hot 
water. Pour in dish with pears, not disturbing sugar, and bake 
until fruit is tender. Place in fancy dish pouring syrup over I'rui 
and serve cold. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

Sweet Milk, 1 tea cup, Eggs, 2, 

Butter, Vo tea cup, | Sugar, 2 tablespoons, 

Flour, 2 tea cups, | Baking Powder, 3 teaspoons, 

Seedless Raisins, 1 tea cup, I heaping). 

Stir ingredients altogether and put in buttered cups or 
moulds filling them about y 2 full. Set them in a steamer and 
steam 20 or 30 minutes. Serve with sweetened cream or sauce 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 93 



RICH SUET PUDDING. 



Flour, 3 cups, 
Suet, 1 cup, 
Sweet Milk, 1 cup, 
Molasses, y 2 cup, 
Sugar, i/o cup. 
Seedless Raisins, 1 cup. 



Citron, y 2 cup, 

Figs or Dates, y 2 cup, 

Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Mace, 1 teaspoon, 

Cloves, y 2 teaspoon, 

Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons, 



Sultana Raisins, 1 cup, (heaping). 

Chop suet fine, seed raisins, cut citron and figs (or dates ) in 
rather small pieces. Warm milk ;md suet together, then add all 
the other ingredients and stir. No beating is necessary. Put in 
buttered tube pan and steam 3 hours, then set in oven a few min- 
utes to dry off. Serve with Brandy Sau e or any warm Sauce. 
This is very nice and is enough for 4 dinners for a medium size 
family. Cut out what is needed and steam y 2 'iour, or until 
thoroughly hot. Served with different kinds of s;i uce, it is always 
handy, especially if company drops in. 



PLAIN SUET PUDDING. 

A plain but good pudding can be made just like the above, 
omitting the fruit except 1 cup of raisins or dates, which are 
cheap, or V 2 cup of each. The dough will be rather thin, but is 
much lighter than if made too stiff. 



INDIAN SUET PUDDING. 

Corn Meal. 4 cups, | Sour Milk, I pint, 

Suet, 2 cups, J Scda, 1 teaspoon a little heap- 
Molasses, 1 cup, ing. 

Salt y 2 teaspoon. 

Chop suet and stir all the i?.gredient$ together. Boil or 
steam 3 hours and serve with sweetened cream. 



94 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Strawberries, 3 quarts, Lard, (Sinclair's Fidelity, '[ 

Sugar, 1 ' 2 cups, pint, 

Flour, 1 quart, Salt, 1 level teaspoon. 

Cold water, Baking Powder, 2 heaping tea- 

spoons, 
Soft Butter, 2 level tablespoons. 

Sift flour, then measure, add salt and baking powder and 
sift again; add lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) rubbing it through the 
flour, i lien pour in enough cold water to make a soft dough. 
Sift a little flour on the board, take out dough and divide it into 
i equa] parts, then rol] out to fit large pie tins. Place 2 layers 
m each pie tin, spreading the butter between the layers and bake 
a light brown in a hot oven, about 12 minutes. Have the berries 
stemmed, and if sandy wash carefully in cold water, then add 
sugar and mash, stirring the sugar through the berries; it is 
better to do this sunn time before wanted, then set them in the 
ice chest until wanted for use. While warm, lift off the layers 
of cake a s they will not stick with the butter between them, then 
spread the berries between the bi vers and on fop; if desired, a few 
•I the large berries may be left whole to place on top. Serve im- 
mediately with plenty of cream. If preferred, this recipe may be 
baked in 2 long pans making 2 layers instead of 4, or make V 2 
tin- recipe according to the number to be served. Red raspberries 
are very nice to use instead of strawberries. 

PEACH SHORTCAKE. 

Make the same as Strawberry Shortcake using fresh or 
canned peaches instead of berries. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Tapioca, 1 cup, Eggs, 4, 

New Milk, 3 pints. Sugar, ( ._. cup. 

Flavoring. 

Soak tapioca about 2 hours in water enough to jnst cover. 
Place the milk in a double boiler, pour in the tapioca and cook 
until it seems soft ami (dear, about ' •> hour. Beat the yolks <>t 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 95 

eggs and sugar together, add to the milk and stir briskly. Pour 
in dish and when cold flavor with vanilla. Beat whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth, add 1 tablespoon of sugar and a few drops of 
rose or orange flavoring. When ready to serve, dish the cream 
in sherbet cups and place a large spoonful of the whites on each 

clip. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Tart Apples, 8 or 10, | Tapioca, 1 coffee cup, 

Water, 1 pint, j Sugar, 1 coffee cup, 

Pare, core aud cut in quarters the apples, place in a but- 
tered baking dish and pour over these the tapioca, which has 
been previously snaked until rather soft in water enough to 
cover; then pour over this the sugar and add water; if apples 
are very juicy use less water. If apples are not a good flavor 
add 1 teaspoon cinnamon, but it will not be quite so clear. Bake 
1 ■_. hour; cover the dish the first hour, then remove cover. Serve 
cold or just warm with plain or whipped cream. 

PINE APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Tapioca, 1 tea cup, I Pine Apple, 1 can. 

Sugar, 1 j ■_. cups, Boiling Water, 1 quart, 

Lemons, 2, Whites of Eggs, 3. 

Soak tapioca over night. In the morning add sugar, the 
juice of the lemons and the boiling water. Boil and stir until 
thick, then add the chopped pineapple. Remove from stove 
and add the well beaten whites of eggs. Mould. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

TRANSPARENT TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Tapioca, 1 cup, Sugar, to taste, 

('old Water, 3 cups, Salt, to taste. 

Lemon, ] (>. 

Soak tapioca in cold water about 1 hour. Cook slowly until 
transparent. Slice lemon thin and boil until tender in a little 



96 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



water. To this add sugar and salt and mix with tapioca. Then 
prepare the following frosting: 

Whites of Eggs, 3 | Sugar ( 2 tablespoons, 

Lemon, y 2 . 

Beat whites of eggs with sugar and add juice of lemon. 
Spread on top of pudding, brown in oven and serve cold. 

RICH BRANDY SAUCE. 

Sweet Cream, 1 pint, | Sugar, y 2 cup, 

Yolks of Eggs, 6, J Butter, 1-3 cup, 

Brandy, 1 wine glass. 

Put the cream on the stove and when boiling add the yolks 
of eggs beaten with the sugar, then the butter, and stir until it 
thickens but do not boil. Strain through a wire sieve and add 
the brandy. Serve hot. 

PLAIN BRANDY SAUCE. 

Corn Starch or Flour, 1 heap- | Sugar, y 2 cup, 

ing tablespoon, j Butter, size of walnut, 

Boiling Water, 1 pint, j Egg, 1, 

Brandy, 3 tablespoons. 

Dissolve corn starch or flour in a little water, then pour on 
this the boiling water, add the sugar and butter and cook 10 or 
15 minutes. Remove from stove and stir in the beaten yolk of the 
egg. Strain through a wire sieve, then add the brandy. Just 
before serving, add the white of the egg beaten to a froth. Serve 
hot. 

HARD BRANDY SAUCE. 

Powdered Sugar, 2 cups, | Lemon, 1, 

Butter, !/2 cup, | Brandy, 4 tablespoons. 

Cream together the sugar and butter until very light. Add 
the juice of the lemon and brandy. More brandy can be used 
if you like it stronger. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 97 



CLEAR SAUCE. 

Water, 1 pint, Sugar, l / 2 cup, 

Corn Starch, 1 tablespoon, | Butter, ' ._. cup, 

Dissolve corn starch with cold water in a stew pan, then 
pour in this the pint of boiling water, add batter and sugar and 
cook 10 minutes. Add any flavor you like. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Yolks of Eggs, 3, | Lemons, 2, 

Sugar, J Sweet Cream, 1 cup. 

Beat the yolks of eggs with enough sugar to make it quite 
sweet, then add the juice and grated rind of the lemons and the 
sweet cream. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Sugar, 1 coffee cup, [ Corn Starch or Flour, 1 desert- 

Water, i/2 coffee cup, spoon, (a little heaping), 

Lemon, 1, lb tiling Water, 1 pint, 

Yolks of Eggs, 2. 

Boil the water and sugar together in a small stew pan until 
it is rather thick sump, then add the grated rind and juice of a 
large, fresh lemon, boil a little longer and remove. Dissolve the 
corn starch or flour in a little water, then pour on this the boil- 
ing water, cook a few minutes and remove; to this add the beaten 
yolks of eggs and about half of the lemon syrup, or enough to 
suit the taste. (The rest of the syrup can be saved for another 
time). Keep in bowl set in pan of hot water and serve warm. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

Corn Starch, 1 tablespoon (a| Sugar, 1 cup, 

little heaping), j Chopped Pineapple, 1 cup, 

Boiling Water, 1 pint, Water, ' L . cup. 

Dissolve corn starch in a little water, then pour on this the 
boiling water and cook 10 minutes. In the meantime, chop 
enough fresh or canned pineapple to make 1 cup; lit is nicer 



98 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



than the grated for this;; add the sugar and water and cook in 
small stew pan until thick and syrupy, then add it to the other 
mixture, It should be clear and white and is nice for steamed 
pudding. Serve warm. 

SABYLLON SAUCE. 

Whole Egg, 1, | Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Yolks of Eggs, 2, | Sherry, y 2 cup, 

Lemon Juice, 1 teaspoon. 

Beat eggs and sugar together in a pan, set in another pan 
of boiling water. Stir while you pour in the sherry and stir con- 
stantly until il thickens. Remove and add the lemon juice. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Sugar, 1 cup, | Fresh Strawberries, 1 cup, 

Butter, y 2 cup, White of Egg, 1, 

Cream sugar and butter together, add the crushed straw- 
berries and the white of egg beaten stiff. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

Sugar, 1 cup, | Fruit Juice, 1 tablespoon, 

Butter, y 2 cup, j Vanilla, 1 teaspoon, 

Hot Water, y 2 cup, | White of Egg ,1. 

( 'ream sugar and butter together, add fruit juice and vanilla. 
Just before serving add the hot water and white of egg beaten to 
a froth. 

NOTES ON GELATINE. 

When using milk or cream in connection with Plymouth 
Rock Gelatine, bo sine to follow explicitly the directions given 
on slip inside the box. 

Always rinse moulds in cold water before filling with any 
kind of gelatine preparation. 

If gelatine deserts are wanted for use at noon, make the day 
before as it takes several hours for it to stiffen. 

When desirous of taking gelatine preparations from moulds, 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 99 



dip the dish for a few seconds in tepid water and turn out. 

Gelatine can be moulded in individual cups or any shape de- 
sired. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE No. 1. 

Lady Fingers or Sponge Cake, | Gelatine, y 2 box, 
Cream, iy 2 pints, | Cold Water, 

Powdered Sugar, 2-3 cups, j Boiling Water, y 2 cup, 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Line a large mould with lady fingers or sponge cake cut in 
slices about y 2 inch thick, leaving a space of y 2 inch between 
each slice ; if desired, pour a few spoonsful of fruit juice or wine 
over the cake. Whip the cream, then stir into it the sugar, vanilla 
and then the gelantine which has been soaked in enough cold 
water to cover it and then dissolve in the boiling water; stir from 
the bottom of the pan until it begins to grow stiff, then pour it in- 
to the mould und set in ice chest for several hours. When ready to 
serve, loosen lightly around the sides, turn out on a flat dish and 
cut in slices. 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE No. 2. 

Lady Fingers or-Sponke Cake, | Gelatine, y 2 box, 
Cream, 1 pint, | Cold Water, 

Powdered Sugar, iy 2 cups, | Boiling Milk, 1 teacup, 
Whites of Eggs, 4. | Rose Water or Vanilla. 

Line a large mould as in Charlotte Russe No. 1. Soak the 
gelatine in enough cold water to cover it, then dissolve it in the 
boiling milk. Whip the cream. Mix the milk, (after it has cooled), 
sugar, whipped cream and flavoring together, then add lightly 
the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then pour it into the 
mould. Set in ice cln st until ready to use and serve as in Char- 
lotte Russe No. 1. 



100 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

Strawberries, 1 quart, | Cold Water, 1-3 cup, 

Whites of Eggs, 2, j Boiling Water, y 2 cup, 

Gelatine, L-3 box, | Sugar, l / 2 cup. 

Fill a mould with the berries. Soak the gelatine in the cold 
water y 2 hour, then add the boiling water and then the sugar. 
Beat whites of eggs stiff, stir altogether and beat until stiff and 
white; then pour over the berries and set on ice. To serve, turn out 
on a fancy dish and send to table with dish of whipped cream to 
serve with it. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Buttered Bread, j Sugar, 

Apples, j Cinnamon. 

Butter a pudding dish, place iu it a layer of slices of buttered 
bread, then a thick layer of apples pared and sliced, a sprinkling 
of sugar and cinnamon ; theu another layer of buttered bread, (it 
is nicer to remove the crust), then the apples, sugar and cinna- 
mon, alternating until dish is full, putting apples, cinnamon, 
sugar and bits of butter on top. Cover the dish and bake la- 
bours; remove the cover to brown the top about 20 minutes before 
the time is up. Serve warm with sauce or cream. This is a nice 
desert and cheap. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Plymouth Rock Gelatine, 1 box | Strawberries, 1 quart, 
Oranges, 2, j Nut Meats, 2-3 cup, 

Lemons, 2, j Sugar, 2 cups, 

Bananas, 3, Hot Water,] pint, 

Cold Water, 1 quart. 

Soak gelatine ' • > hour in 1 pint cold water then add 1 pint 
hoi water and the sugar stirred until dissolved. Squeeze juice 
from lemons and add to gelatine, then add 1 pint cold water. 
Strain through cheese cloth wrung out of clear water. This 
makes 1 1 ._, quarts liquid. Set in ice box until it begins to stif- 
fen. While it is cooling, gel fruit ready. Peel bananas, cut 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 101 

lengthwise in two, then slice 14 inch thick. Peel oranges with 
sharp knife close to pulp, taking off all the white part. Slice 
crosswise y? inch thick, then cut in rather small pieces. Stem 
the berries. Use English walnut meats cut once in two, or hick- 
ory nut meats whole or almonds blanched (see recipe) and cut 
once in two. Take a dish or granite pan. dip in cold water, then 
put in jour fruit and nuts in layers until all are in, then pour 
over them your gelatine. If it is chilled enough the fruit will 
rise so it Will be evenly distributed through the jelly. If not, 
let it cool longer, then with a fork, place fruit down through 
jelly then set away to thicken. When ready to serve, set the dish 
for a moment on a cloth wrung out of hot water. Loosen the 
edges with a knife and turn top side down on a fancy plate if to 
be served at table. If in the kitchen, turn on a platter or tray, 
cut the pieces any shape you like using a broad pie knife or cake 
turner and place each piece on individual plate. Place beside it 
2 large spoonfulls whipped cream and serve Angel Food, Sun- 
shine or any nice cake with it. When strawberries are not in 
season, use y 2 pound candied cherries, white grapes, fresh or 
canned pineapple, or fresh or canned peaches. Cut pineapple 
and peaches in dice. Any kind of fruit can be used and as many 
kinds as you wish. If you use fruit that has juice, such as pine- 
apple or Lemon Cling peaches, measure the juice first and then 
add water to make iy 2 quarts liquid to 1 box gelatine. This will 
serve 18 persons. If less quantity is required, use V2 ° r Vl b° x > 
and water and fruit in proportion. It will keep 1 week in the 
ice box. Always make it the day before it is to be used. If de- 
sired, you can mould in individual cups. 



LEMON JELL No. 1. 

Lemons, 3, | Gelatine, 1-3 box, 

Sugar, y 2 coffee cup, | Cold Water, y 2 pint, 

Lemon Flavoring, y 2 teaspoon, j Hot Water, 1 pint. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water y 2 hour, then add the 
hot water. When the gelatine is dissolved, add the juice of the 
lemons, sugar and flavoring, then strain into mould through a 
piece of cheese cloth wrung out of water. 



102 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



LEMON JELLY No. 2. 

Soak 1 package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in 1 pint of cold 
water 30 minutes; then add 2 pints of hot water, iy 2 cups of 
sugar, (or sweeten < > taste), 2 teaspoons lemon extract and stir 
until sugar is dissolved. Set on ice to harden and let it remain 
on ice until ready to serve. 



ORANGE FLOAT. 

Oranges, 5, j Water, 1 quart, 

Lemons, 2, I Sugar, 1 coffee cup, 

Whites of Eggs, 3, | Corn Starch, 4 tablespoons. 

Put the water, sugar and the juice and the pulp of the 
lemons on the stove. When boiling, add the corn starch dis- 
solved in a little water and boil 15 minutes, stirring all the time. 

When cold, pour over the peeled and sliced oranges. Beat 
the whites of eggs stiff, SAveeten to taste and spread over the top. 
Prepare it in the dish in which you wish to send it to the table. 



ORANGE DEvSSERT. 

Orange Pulp, 1 coffee cup, | Sugar, 1 coffee cup, 

Lemon, 1, | Boiling Water, 1-3 coffee cup, 

Gelatine, 2 heaping table- | Cold Water, 1-3 coffee cup, 

spoons, I Whites of Eggs, 4. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water i/> hour. Put the juice 
of the lemon, orange pulp, sugar and boiling water in a pan and 
set on the stove; add the gelatine and stir until dissolved, then 
take off of stove and let stand until nearly cold; then add the 
whites of eggs beaten very stiff, beat together and pour in mould. 
Serve with wafers or cake. If preferred, you can add the whites 
of eggs after the other ingredients cool just a little; the whites of 
eggs will then rise to the top and give the appearance of a dif- 
ferent dessert. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 103 



ORANGE JELL. 

Sugar, 1 tea cup, | Cold AYater, y 2 pint, 

Gelatine, 1-3 box, | Orange Juice, y 2 pint, 

Orange Flavoring, y 2 teaspoon. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water H hour. Add the orange 
juice and warm it until gelatine is dissolved, then add sugar and 
flavoring. Strain and put in mould. This makes 1 pint of jell. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

Make the recipe for Orange Jell and when nearly cold add 
the whites of 3 eggs beaten very stiff and pour in mould. 



ORANGE CREAM. 

.Make the recipe for ( Grange Jell, and when nearly cold add 1 
pint i <>r more if desired) of Whipped Cream and pour in mould. 



PINEAPPLE SNOW. 

Pineapple, 1 can, j Sugar, 1 cup, 

Gelatine, y 2 box, | Cold Water, 1 cup, 

Whites of Eggs, 3, | Boiling Water, 1 cup, 

Lemons, 2. 

Dice the pineapple, stew in the juice until tender and 
sweeten to taste. Soak the gelatine in the cold water about } L . 
hour, then pour on the boiling water and add the lemon juice and 
sugar. Strain, if it is not clear. Beat the whites of eggs very 
stiff and when the jelly begins to set add the eggs and beat until 
very light and foamy. Dip a mould in cold water and arrange 
the pineapple and snow in alternate layers, using snow top and 
bottom. Set on ice. Serve with whipped cream or a custard 
made as follows: 

Milk, 1 pint, | Flavor with (J rated Peel of a 

Sugar, i/> cup, Lemon, 

Yolks of Fggs. 3. 



104 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



PINEAPPLE TRIFLE. 

Pineapple, 1, | Lemon, 1, 

Sugar, 2 cups, Cold Water, 1 cup, 

Gelatine, 1 box, Boiling Water, 1 cup, 

Whites of Eggs, 6. 

Chop a ripe, sweet pineapple in small pieces and add the 
sugar; sel ii away and soak the gelatine in flic cold water for 2 
bours. At the end ol this time pour the boiling water over the 
gelatine and stir until it is melted. Add it to the pineapple with 
the juice of the lemon and stir the mixture on the ice until it 
begins to be quite thick. Peat to a stiff froth the whites of eggs 
and add them to the pineapple, which should be quite thick, al- 
most firm and moulded by this time; beat the whole until creamy 
and serve with whipped cream or a delicate soft custard. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD No. 1. 

Plymouth Pock Gelatine, ] - j Boiling Water, > ._> pint, 
box, (or same quantity of j Juice of 1 Lemon, 
some other kind), j Sugar, ' L > coffee cup, 

Cold Water, y 2 l 1 '"*- [Sliced Pineapple, 1 can, 

English Walnut Meats, y 2 pound. 

Soak gelatine in the cold water y 2 hour. Then add the hot 
water and when dissolved add juice from pineapple, lemon juice 
and sugar. Chop pineapple and add to the mixture, then add 
nut meats which have been removed in halves. Set in cold place, 
if possible on ice, until the jelly becomes firm. It is best to let 
the mixture cool a little before adding pineapple and nuts so 
i hey will not rise to the top. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD No. 2. 

Pineapple, 1 can, j Sugar, 1 tea cup, 

Gelatine, 2 heaping table- 1 Lemons, .">, 

spoons, | Cold Water, ' ■_. pint, 

Boiling Water, ' 2 pint. 

<'ut pineapple in small pieces, add 1 heaping tablespoon of 
sugar and boil until tender. Soak the gelatine in the cold water 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 105 

a few minutes, then pour on the boiling water, add the juice of 
the lemons and the tea cup of sugar. Strain through a thin 
cloth, then pour it over the pineapple and put in mould. It is 
very nice moulded in individual cups or small moulds. Turn out 
and servo with plain or whipped cream. Use 1 medium size 
fresh pineapple instead of canned pineapple if preferred. 

BAKED EICE. 

Milk, 2 quarts. | Sugar, to taste. 

Rice, y 2 cup, | Nutmeg, to taste. 

Bake slowly in a moderate oven 2 hours. During the first 
hour stir 2 or 3 times, then cover and bake another hour. Raisins 
may be added if desired. 

RICE CREAM. 

Rice, 1 cup, | Gelatine, 1-3 package, 

Sugar, 1 cup. j Bitter Almond or Vanilla Es- 

Milk, 1 quart, sence, 1 teaspoon, 

Sweet Cream, 1 pint. 

Boil rice until tender, drain off the water and pour into 
scalding milk with the sugar. Bring to a boil and put in the 
gelatine previously soaked soft in enough cold water to cover it. 
W 'lien this is dissolved strain the mixture through a fine sieve 
and beat for 3 minutes. Flavor and set aside until cold. Then 
whip in the sweet cream, pour in mould and set on ice till 
wanted. 

RICE DESSERT. 

Uncooked Rice, % cup. Cream, 1 pint. 

Powdered Sugar, > •_. rup, | Gelatine, 2 tablespoons, 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon, | Cold Water, 1 tablespoon. 

Wash the rice until the water which you drain off looks 
clear. Have 2 quarts of water boiling rapidly with 1-2 teaspoon 
o f ' salt, tint in the rice and conk 20 or 25 minutes, then drain in a 
colander and set in the oven 5 minutes. Soak the gelatine in the 
• •old wafer 1-2 hour, then set dish in hot water to dissolve it. Whip 



106 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

the cream, then add the sugar, then the vanilla, then the cooked 
rice which must be cold, then strain the gelatine into the mixture 
and stir from the bottom up. Dip your moulds in cold water, 
fill with the dessert and set away to harden. If you use rice that 
is left over (instead of cooking it especially for this dessert), use 
i-i! cup. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Milk, 1 quart, Sugar, -i tablespoons, 

Gelatine, 1-3 box, I Eggs, 3, 

Vanilla Flavoring. 

Soak the gelatine in the milk 1-2 hour, then put on stove in a 
double boiler or .set the kettle in a pan of hot water.. Beat the 
sugar and yolks of eggs together, then stir them into the milk and 
stir until the mixture begins to thicken like soft custard, then 
remove from the stove. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir 
them quickly into the custard, then add flavoring to suit the 
taste. Pour into moulds. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

SX( >VY PUDDING. No 1. 

Make the first recipe for Lemon Jell, and when nearly cold 
beat the whites of 3 eggs with a little salt to a stiff froth, add 3 
tablespoons of sugar and beat this mixture into your Lemon Jell 
until it is thoroughly mixed. Pour into mould. When ready to 
serve dish out with a large spoon and pour around it the following 
custard : 

Water, 1-2 pint, | Sugar, 1-2 cup. 

Thin Sweet ('ream, 3-4 pint, Yolks of Eggs. :?. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon, Salt, a little. 

Let the water come to a boil. Beat together The sugar and 
yolks of eggs, then add the flour Which has been dissolved in a 
little cold water, then the salt and stir this mixture into the 
boiling water and stir until thick. If it is lumpy, strain it. Add 
the cream which will make it a thin custard. Serve all cold. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 107 



SNOW PUDDING No. 2. 

Soak 1 package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in 1 pint of 
cold water 30 minutes; add V/ 2 pints hot water to dissolve it; 
iy 2 cups of sugar and 2 teaspoon* «>f lemon or oilier flavoring 
extracts. Stir until sugar is dissolved; pour into a very shallow- 
dish and set on ice until it slightly jells or thickens; beat to a 
stiff froth the whites of 3 eggs and a pinch of salt, beat in the 
gelatine until light and frothy and set back on ice until ready 
to serve with the following sauce. 

SAUCE. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with 1 cup of sugar and 2 tea- 
spoons of corn starch. Scald 1 quart of milk and turn it into 
the yolks, heat until it thickens, stirring all the time; add vanilla 
and a pinch of salt and let it cool. Using a little wine or brandy 
in the Snow Pudding makes Princess Pudding. 

WINE JELLY. 

Soak 1 box gelatine in y 2 pint cold water 20 minutes. Add 
1 quart boiling water, 4 cups sugar and stir until dissolved. Add 
] 2 pint wine and juice of 2 lemons. Stir and pour into mould. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

The cream must be rich and cold, what is called double 
cream. Have the vessel you whip it in cold and broader at 
the top than at the bottom. Whip about y 2 pint at a time with 
a good egg beater. Whip until very stiff and place on ice until 
ready to serve 

JELLIES WITH RIPE, FRESH FRUIT. 

Pare and quarter or slice ' L » dozen or more ripe peaches, or 
other ripe fruit, sprinkle with sugar and set aside. Soak 1 
package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in 1 pint of cold water 30 
minutes; add l 1 /^ pints of hot water to dissolve it, then add l 1 /^ 
cups of sugar, and lastly the fruit. Set on ice to harden until 
ready to serve. 

Whole raspberries and strawberries are very nice this way. 



108 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



FRUIT SPONGE. 

Soak 1 package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in V2 P* 11 * °f 
cold water 30 minutes; add 1 pinl of hot water to dissolve the 
gelatine, then add 1 ' •_. cups of sugar, 1 pint of mashed fruit and 
juice (strawberry, grape, raspberry, etc., 1 and set on ice until 
it slightly jells as in Snow Pudding. Beat the whites of 4 eggs 
with a pinch of sail to a stiff froth, heat in the stiffened gela- 
tine; set on ice until ready in serve. Use the yolks for a same 
as in Snow Pudding. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Peel and core <> or more apples, according to size: place 
in a shallow dish and fill the cores with sugar; bake until the 
apples are soft and tender. Make a plain jelly as Lemon Jelly 
Xo. 2, and when it begins to thicken pour it over the soft apple 
and place on ice until hard and ready to serve. 

Serve with grated nutmeg, sugar and cream. Nice with 
whipped cream. Particularly fine with Pink Gelatine. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Soak 1 package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in a mixture 
«>(' y 2 pint of sherry wine and ' -. pint of cold water 40 minutes, 
then place the howl in another of hot water until gelatine dis- 
solves; then add l 1 - cups of sugar and set away until it begins 
to thicken; then beat into it 1 pint (cold) cream and beat until 
stiff enough to drop from the spoon; put in a mould or dish and 
onl on ice until ready to serve. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 109 



Ice Creams and Ices 



BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Cream, 3 pints, I Sugar, iy 2 cups, 

Whites of Eggs, 2, | Powdered Sugar, y 2 cup, 

.Medium sized Bananas, 6. 

Peel bananas and cut in two lengthwise, then slice. Place 
in dish and cover with powdered sugar. Dissolve sugar in 
cream, add beaten whites of eggs, place in freezer and freeze 
until ready to take out dasher. Stir in prepared bananas, pack 
down and set away until ready to use. 



CARMEL ICE CREAM. 

Cream, boiled, 1 pint, | Carmel Sugar, 1 cup, 

Cream, cold, 1 quart. ^Yhite Sugar, y 2 cup, 

Eggs, 2, | Flour, scant y 2 cup, 

Vanilla, 2 teaspoons. 

Put 1 pint of cream in double boiler. Wet flour smooth 
with cold milk. Beat eggs and add to flour and stir into the 
boiling cream. Add carmel sugar and boil 20 minutes, stirring 
constantly. Remove and add cold cream, white sugar ami 
vanilla, then strain through a sieve. Let cool, then freeze. 



CARMEL SUGAR. 

Place 1 cup granulated sugar in a granite stew pan over a 
hot blaze, stirring rapidily until ii boils up like molasses, ami 
pour immediately into the boiling cream. 



110 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Milk ly 2 pints, | Flour, 2 heaping tablespoons. 

Cream, 1 quart, j Baker's Chocolate, 2 heaping 
Sugar, 2 cups, tablespoons, 

Vanilla, 1 tablespoon, j Eggs, 2. 

Put milk in a double boiler. Put flour and 1 cup sugar in a 
bowl, add eggs and beat mixture until light. Stir this into the 
boiling milk and cook 20 minutes, stirring well. Grate choco- 
late and put in a small sauce pan, adding 4 tablespoons su^ar 
taken from the second cup and 2 tablespoons hot water. Stir 
this over a hot fire until smooth and glossy. Add to the cook- 
ing mixture. Let cook 20 minutes, remove and add remainder 
of sugar and cream which should be gradually beaten into the 
hot mixture. Add vanilla and set away to cool. Then freeze. 
This will make 2 1 2 quarts. 



LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Cream, 1 quart, | Lemons, 2. 

Sugar, 9 heaping tablespoons, | Orange, 1. 

Grate the yellow rind of the lemons and orange and squeeze 
out the juice. To this add the sugar and let stand in a cool place 
for 1 hour. Scald cream and let cool ; when cold, partly freeze, 
then add the juice and sugar which should be dissolved. Turn 
the crank rapidly a few minutes and finish the same as other 
cream. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Cream, 3 pints, | Sugar 2y 2 cups, 

Fresh Peaches, 1 quart, Whites of Eggs, 2. 

Pare peaches, cut in small pieces and add 1 cup sugar. Dis- 
solve remainder of sugar in cream, add beaten whites of eggs 
and serve until ready to take dasher out, when stir in the peaches, 
stirring them well through the cream. Pack down and let stand 
until ready to use. 

If canned peaches are used they do not require quite so 
much sugar. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. Ill 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Cream, 3 pints, | Sugar, iy 2 cups, 

Pineapple, 1 pint, j Whites of Egg,s 2. 

Stew 1 fresh or 1 can sliced pineapple cut in small pieces in 
a little water with V* cup sugar and let get cold. Dissolve sugar 
in cream, add beaten whites of eggs and freeze. When ready to 
take dasher out, pour in the cold pineapple, stir well through the 
cream and pack down. 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Cream, 3 pints, . | Sugar, 2 J ._> cups, 

Strawberries, 1 quart, | Whites of Eggs, 2. 

Dissolve half of the sugar in cream, add beaten whites of 
eggs and freeze. When ready to take dasher out, add mashed 
strawberries sweetened with balance of sugar. Mix thoroughly 
through cream, pack down smooth and let stand 1 hour. 



TUTTT FRUTTI ICE CREAM. 

To 2 quarts of Vanilla Ice Cream partly frozen, add 1 pint 
candied fruit cut in small pieces and cooked about 10 minutes in 
a small quantity of water, such as lemon and orange peel, cher- 
ries and citron. Any kind of fruit or nuts may be used. 



VANILLA ICE CREAM No. 1. 

Cream, 3 pints, | Sugar, l 1 -. cups, 

Vanilla, 1 tablespoon, Whites of Eggs, 2. 

Dissolve sugar in cream and add vanilla. Put in freezer 
and freeze according to directions given in note. When half 
frozen add the beaten whites of eggs. Finish freezing and pack 
down until ready to use. 



112 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



VANILLA EOE CREAM No. 2. 

Milk, 1 quart, j Sugar, 1 • 2 cupis, 

Cream, 1 quart, Flour, iy 2 teaspoons, 

Eggs, 2, Vanilla, 1 tablespoon. 

Scald milk. Beal eggs \ci-y light without separating. Add 
i eggs sugar and flour mixed together dry and beat very light. 
Cook in milk until thick and put away to cool. Strain and add 
slowly to cream. When cold, flavor. If not sweet enough, add 

in ore Sugar. freeze. 

LEMUX [CE. 

Large, Juicy Lemons, 4, | Water, 1 quart, 

Orange, 1, j Sugar, 3 cups. 

Boil water and sugar. Chip yellow rind from lemons and 
orange and put in syrup. Boil 5 minutes, then stand away to 
cool. Squeeze juice from lemons and orange and stir into the 
mixture. Strain through a cloth ami freeze. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Large Oranges, 6, , Sugar, 1 pint, 

Lemons, 2, < told Water, 1 pint, 

Whites of Eggs, 2, , Gelatine, 2 tablespoons. 

Peel and grate oranges, removing seeds. To this pulp add 
juice and grated rind of lemon®, sugar, water and gelatine prev- 
iously dissolved in ' ■_. cup of water. Stir all together and freeze 
half done, then add beaten whites of 2 eggs and proceed same as 
with Pineapple Ice. 

PINEAPPLE [CE. 

one pint of fresh or canned pineapple chopped fine, 1 pint 
sugar, 1 pint water, 1 heaping tablespoon gelatine dissolved in 
1 Cup hot water, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon all added to- 
gether and let stand l / 2 hour, then freeze. When half frozen, re- 
move lid and add beaten whites of -1 eggs and finish freezing. 
Take out dasher, pal down and cover until ready to serve. 
Orated pineapple can he used hut is not as nice as the fresh. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 113 



ROMAN PUNCH. 

Six or 7 lemons and 4 oranges, grated rind of 2 lemons and 
2 oranges, 3 pints water and 3 pints sugar all boiled together 
and strained. Add 1 wine glass Rum, 2 wine glasses Cham- 
pagne or Maderia, and the beaten whiles of :*> eggs. Freeze and 
serve. 

FRUIT SHERBET. 

Lemons, 3, I < 'hopped Pineapple, 1 cup, 

Oranges, 3, | Sugar, 3 cups, 

Bananas, 6, j Water, 2 quarts, 

Whites of Eggs, 2. 

Squeeze juice from oranges and lemons and strain. Add 
pineapple and bananas cut in small pieces, then sugar and water 
and stir well. When just ready to freeze add beaten whites of 
eggs. Freeze and pack for 2 or 3 hours to ripen. Peaches, straw- 
, . ries, or any kind of fruit can be used and made in the same 
way. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Water, 3 pints, | Juice of 2 Lemons, 

Sugar, 3 cups, j Whites of Eggs, 3, 



1 Fresh or 1 can Pineapple. 



Chop pineapple and cook in stew pan in small quantity 
water until quite tender, then add to the water, sugar and lemon 
juice and place in freezer. When thoroughly chilled, add beaten 
whites of eggs and finish freezing. 



114 KEUAI5LE TOOK BOOK. 



Loaf Cakes 



NOTE ON CAKES. 



Always use fine granulated sugar for cakes of all kinds 
unless otherwise directed in recipe. In cold weather have 
the butter where it will soften a little but not melt, so it will 
cream easily. White butter makes whiter cake. If butter is very 
salty, wash in a dish of cold water pressing it through with 
the hand. White cake that would otherwise be very nice is often 
spoiled by the salt in the butter. Pour off the water then meas- 
ure. Use fresh eggs, which should be kept in the refrigerator in 
slimmer. Good material will give good results. Liue tins with 
light weight manilla or common yellow paper for all kinds of 
loaf and layer cakes, except Angel Food, Sunshine and Sponge 
Cake. Grease paper slightly with lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) or 
unsalted butter. Layer cakes require a hotter oven than loaf 
cakes. In baking loaf cakes it is better to have a slow oven to 
give it time to raise, then increase the heat a little. If too hot, 
set a dish of water in the oven. If getting too brown, lay a paper 
over the top. Ovens that bake pies nicely on the bottom require 
a grate under tins for cake. If a large, round layer cake is de- 
sired, bake in 3 tins and put together as directed in Almond 
Cake. Any white or yellow cake recipe can be used and put 
together with any of the many fillings given herein, remember- 
ing to flavor cake accordingly, as, almond flavoring for almond 
cake, vanilla tor chocolate, etc If wanted to cut in square 
pieces, bake in a long or square tin, making 2 layers. Finish 
same as round ones, icing top and sides. Any sized granite or 
l in pans can be used for loaf cake by placing in the center for a 
lube a baking powder can, from which label has been washed 
and can filled with nails to keep it down, and kept for this 
purpose. 

Fruit Cake requires a vevy slow oven with grate under 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 115 

pan to keep it from burning'. Try all loaf cakes with broom 
straw; if nothing adheres to it cake is done. Let cool before 
turning out of pan. Never beat cakes after whites of eggs are 
added unless so instructed. Stir them in lightly and bake at 
once. For Angel Food, Sunshine and Sponge Cake, stir as little 
as possible after flour is added, unless otherwise instructed in 
recipe. Too much stirring makes it tough. A round cake is 
nice cut in the following manner: Turn a glass or cup upside 
down on the center of the cake, mark around it, remove the cup 
and then put your knife straight down and cut around the mark, 
and then cut your pieces from this out to the edge. You can cut 
i lie pieces a little thicker as they will not be as long and easier 
handled. 

ANGEL FOOD No. 1. 

Whites of Eggs, 11, | Cream Tarter, 1 teaspoon (a 

Sugar, V/ 2 cups, little heaping), 

Flour, 114 cups, I Flavoring. 

Use a large platter, a spoon egg-beater, large, fresh eggs, 
very fine granulated sugar and a good winter wheat flour. 

Sift sugar and flour each 6 or 8 times, the more the better, 
then measure. Have platter, beater and eggs very cold and 
everything in readiness before beginning to put together. Add 
pinch of salt to whites of eggs before beating, then beat about 
half stiff enough, add cream tartar and beat until very, very 
stiff. Stir in sugar very gently, a little at a time, then the flour 
in the same way and add the flavoring. Use Vanilla or any kind 
you wish, or it is very nice to use a little each of almond, vanilla 
and rose flavoring. Put in an ungreased pan and bake in a very 
slow oven, increasing heat a little after cake raises. Put cake to- 
gether as quickly as possible and bake immediately. You can 
use a regular Angel Food Pan, square or round, or take a com- 
mon pan and put a pound baking powder can in the center; use a 
round can with a round pan, and a square can with a square pan. 
Let the can project a little above the pan, and when cake is done, 
remove from the oven and turn upside down to cool. When cold, 
remove can and with a thin knife, loosen cake around the sides 
and on the bottom and turn out. Ice with Boiled Icing. The cup 



116 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

used for measuring contains a little more than y 2 pint but is 
called a half pint cup. 

ANGEL FOOD No. 2. 

Whites of Large Eggs, 9, (or| Flour, 1 cup, 

10 smaller ones), | Cream Tartar, y 2 heaping tea- 

Sugar, iy± cups, spoon, 

Flavoring. 

Follow directions for Angel Food No. 1. 

ANGEL FOOD BY WEIGHT. 

Whites of Eggs, 11, | Cream Tartar, 1 teaspoon (a 

Sugar, 10 ounces, little heaping), 

Flour, 5 ounces, | Flavoring. 

Follow directions for Angel Food No. 1. 

BANGOR CAKE. 

Sugar, 2 cups, | Sweet Milk, 2-3 cup, 

Butter, 1 cup, | Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons, 

Flour, 3 cups, j Eggs, 4, 

Flavor, to taste. 

Cream the but lei- and sugar; then add eggs 1 at a time until 
all are in, heating meanwhile. (This makes the cake fine-grained 
and while i. Then add the other ingredients. Sift the flour be- 
fore measuring, then sift with the baking powder into the mix- 
lure. Bake in tube pan in moderately hot oven. This makes a 
good size loaf. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 117 



CHOCOLATE LOAF CAKE. 



C Sugar, 2 cups. 
Butter, y 2 cup, 
Hot Water, 1 L . cup, 
Sour Milk V 2 cup. 
Flour, 2 1 /. cups, 



Eo-os 2 

Soda, 1 teaspoon, 
Vanilla, 1 teaspoon, 
Baker's Chocolate, 2 table- 
spoons, (grated). 



Beat together the butter, sugar and eggs ; then add the milk, 
flour and vanilla. At last dissolve the soda in the hot water, 
then put in the chocolate and stir until all is thoroughly dis- 
solved, and then add to the cake mixture. Beat until it looks 
smooth. Bake in the tube pan in moderate oven. This makes I 
good size loaf and will keep several days. 



CHOCOLATE SQUARE CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup, | Butter, y 2 cup, 

Milk, 1 cup, | Eggs, 2, 

Flour, 1 2-3 cups, | Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons, 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Beat the sugar, butter and eggs together; then add the milk 
and flour with the baking powder sifted in. Bake in square pan 
in moderate oven. When cold, turn bottom side up and ice with 
Chocolate Icing, (see recipe). Cut in squares. 



CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup, | Flour, 2 cups, 

Butter, y 2 cup, | Whites of Eggs, 6, 

Milk, 1 cup, | Baking Powder, V/ 2 heaping 

Corn Starch, 1 cup, teaspoons, 

Flavor, to taste. 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add the corn starch 
dissolved in the milk, then the flour with the baking powder, 
flavoring, then whites of eggs beaten medium stiff. Bake in 
tube pan in a moderate oven. This makes a. good size loaf. 



118 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



COFFEE CAKE. 



Sugar, 1 cup, 

Butter, 1 cup, 

Molasses, 1 cup, 

Coffee, (as prepared for table), 

1 cup, 
Eggs. 2, 
Soda, (dissolved in water), 2 

teaspoons, 



Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons, 

( Moves, 1 teaspoon, 

Mace, 1 teaspoon, 

Raisins, (seeded and chopped), 

1 pound, 
Citron, (sliced in thin strips), 

1 2 pound, 
Figs, (cut in strips) y 2 pound. 



Flour, to make pretty stiff. 

Beat the butter, sugar and eggs all together; then add the 
other ingredients except the citron and figs, which put in layers 
with the dough as you fill the pan. This will make a large loaf 
and keeps well. Bake in slow oven l 1 o or 2 hours. 



COURT CAKE. 



Sugar, 2 tea cups, 
Butter, 1 tea cup, 
Sour Milk, 1 tea cup, 
Flour, 4 tea cups, 



Seedless Raisins, 1 pint, 
Soda, 1 level teaspoon, 
Vanilla or Lemon, 1 teaspoon. 



Cream sugar ami butter together, then add eggs 1 at a time 
until all are in, beating each time between, then add the other 
ingredients, dissolving the soda in the milk. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 



WHITE CREAM CAKE. 



Sugar, 2 coffee cups, 



Butter. 1 -j coffee cup, 



(a 



| Flour, 2 1 ^ coffee cups, 
I Cream Tartar, 1 teaspoon 
Sour Cream, 1/2 coffee cup, little heaping). 

Soda, 1 teaspoon (a little heap-| Orange or Rose Flavoring, 1 
ing), teaspoon. 

Whites of Eggs, 8. 

Put soda into cream and sift cream tartar in flour Cream 
butter and sugar, then add other ingredients. Add last, whites 
of tugs beaten to a 1 froth. Do not beat after the whites are in, 
but stir gently. Bake slowly. This will make a good sized loaf 
and be very white and fine grained. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 119 



DATE CAKE. 

Sugar, IV. cups, | Eggs, 4, 

Butter, y 2 cup, | Dates, y 2 pound, 

Milk, 1 cup, | Baking Powder, 2 teaspoon?. 

Flour, 2V 2 cups, j Lemon Flavoring, y 2 teaspoon. 

Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating iu 
the meantime. Add flour, milk and other ingredients. Take 
stones out of dates and chop fine. Bake in loaf or 2 sheets. Ice 
between and on top, placing split dates on top. Cut in squares 
when serving. 

EXTRA NICE LOAF CAKE. 

Sugar, 2 tea cups, | Flour, 1 quart, well heaped, 

Sour Cream, 1 tea cup, | Soda, 1 level teaspoon, 

Butter, 14 pint, | Hot Water, 2 teaspoons. 

Eggs, 4. 

Beat butter, sugar and eggs together, then add the other 
ingredients, dissolving the soda in the hot water. Crate into 
this the white part of 1 cocoanut or 1 large cup of blanched and 
chopped almonds, or 1 large cup of chopped hickory nuts. Flavor 
to taste Bake in tube pan in medium hot oven. This make- a 
good sized loaf. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 

Brown Sugar, 1% cups, | Raisins (seeded and chopped), 

Butter, 1 ! - enps, 3 pounds. 

Molasses, 1 cup, [ Almonds, I chopped I y± pound, 

Browned Flour, 1 quart, | Candied Lemon Peel 14 pound, 

Citron, 1 pound. Wine, 1 wine glass, 

Figs, y 2 pound, j Brandy, 1 wine glas-. 

Eggs, 12, I Soda, 2 heaping teaspoons. 

Beat the sugar, butter and yolks of eggs together; then add 
the other ingredients and proceed the same as other fruit cakes. 
This makes 1! large loaves. Bake in tube pan in slow oven from 
2 1 o to 3 hours. Will keep for years. The wine and brandy may 
be omitted, but if used a little more flour may be required. (For 
browned flour see recipe 1. 



120 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



FRUIT CAKE. 



Sugar j 1 cup, 
Butter, 1 cup, 
Molasses, 1 cup, 
Sour M ilk, 1 cup, 
Flour, 5 cups, 

Soft Id I, L'-.'i Clip, 

Eggs, 2, 

Cloves, 1 teaspoon, 

( Jinnamon, - teaspoons, 

Mace, 1 teaspoon, 



Nutmeg, 1, 

Raisins, (seeded and chopped I 

1 2 pound, 
Seedless Raisins, l/ 2 pound, 
Dates. J 2 pound. 
Citron, ' - pound, 
Candied Lemon Peel, (chop- 
ped) Vi pound. 
Candied Orange Peel, • chop- 
ped), ' | pound. 



Soda, 2 heaping teaspoons. 

Beat the buttei and sugar together; then add tlie eggs and 
the other ingredients, the fruit Last. Bake in tube nan in slow 
oven about 2 hours. This makes a large loaf in a G euart pun, 
or it can be baked in '1 loaves. It is extra nice, not very expen- 
sive, and will keep a long time. (The dates and citron may be 
chopped Or sliced ). 



BEST FRUIT CAKE FOR VVEDDINGB. 



Sugar, 3 cups a little heaping, 

Butter, 3 cups even full, 

Flour, S cups. 

Eggs, 12, 

Molasses, 1 pint, 

Soda. _' heaping teas] torn is. 

Mace, 3 teaspoons, 

Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons, 

< Moves, l teaspoon, 

Nutmegs, _, 



Raisins, 3 pounds seeded and 

chopped a little, 
Figs, 1 pound cut in strips, 
( Mtroii 1 pound cut in thin 

strips, 
Lemon Peel, 3 i lb. cut fine. 
Orange Peel, ' ( lb. cut fine, 
Soft Jell, iV 2 cups, 
Brandy, ' i pint, 
Wine, | | pint 



('ream butter and Sugar. Add the beaten yolks of eggs, then 
the other ingredients except citron and figs. Dissolve soda in 
part of the molasses. Add the beaten whites of eggs last. Try 
a little in patty tin as some flour is dryer than others. If it set- 
lies and seems too rich add more flour. This will make - large 
loaves in 6-quart pans. If is very nice to use 1 ] L > pounds of 
raisins which you seed yourself and 1 ' ._. pounds id* light colored 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 121 

seedless raisins. When filling the pans, divide the dough equally 

for the 2 cakes. Put in a layer of dough, then a layer of citron 
and figs, then a layer of dough and so on. I use common tin or 
granite pans with y 2 pound Baking Powder Can for tube, filled 
with nails to keep it down. They can be washed and kept for 
the purpose. Always line the pans, using 1 thickness of brown 
or heavy paper and about 3 of yellow paper for the bottom and 1 
thickness of yellow paper for the sides. This insures a nice 
brown ; they must not be burnt or they are spoiled. Bake 
slowly, about 1 M L » or 3 hours. Try with broom straw. Ovens 
that bake fast on the bottom should have a grate placed under 
the pans. Let cakes stand in pans until cold, turn out bottom 
side up and ice with the following: 1 coffee cup granulated 
sugar and } ■_> cup water. Cook in a little stew pan until rather 
thick but not as long as for regular boiled icing, pour over the 
white of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth; beat until cold or nearly 
so, then spread on cakes. This will not look white but keeps 
them moist and will be all right to use any time. y 2 teaspoon 
almond flavoring added to the icing gives it a delicious nutty 
flavor. Yon can iee them with a regular boiled icing at any 
rime. These will keep a long time and are better after 2 or 3 
months. Keep in stone jar or closely covered cake box. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE No. 1. 

Molasses, 2-3 cup, I Butter or i Sin. lair's Fidelity) 

Sugar, y 2 cup. Lard, scant j 2 cup, 

Sour ('ream, '-cup, Cinnamon, l 2 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 ' ■_. cups, Mace. y 2 teaspoon, 

Eggs, 2, | Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

Soda, 1 heaping teaspoon. 

Stir all together and bake in square pan in moderate oven. 



122 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



SOFT GINGER CAKE No. 2. 



Thick Sour Cream, 1 pint, 
Light New Orleans Molasses, 

1 pint, 
Brown Sugar, y 2 cup, 
Melter Butter and (Sinclair's 

Fidelity) Lard Mixed, 3, 

tablespoons, 

Mace, 1 



Flour, enough to make a me- 
dium soft batter, 

Soda, 2 teaspoons, (a little 
heaping), 

Ginger, 1 teaspoon, 

(Moves, 1 teaspoon, 

Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon, 
teaspoon. 



If the cream is not rich use 4 tablespoons of melted butter 
and i Sinclair's Fidelity) lard mixed. Dissolve the soda in the 
cream. Stir all of the ingredients together. Try a little and if 
too slack add a little flour. Bake in moderate oven in 2 long or 
square pans. This is extra nice. 



A CHEAP GINGER CAKE. 



Molasses, 1 tea cup, 
Lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) and 
Butter Mixed, 1-3 tea cup, 
Hot Water, i/o tea cup, 
Egg, 1, 



Sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon, 

Ginger, 1 teaspoon, 

Spice, to taste, 

Flour, enough for soft batter. 



Stir all the ingredients together and bake in a moderate 



oven. 



RICH S( )FT GINGER CAKE. 



Molasses, 1 cup, 
Sour Cream, \ ■_• cup, 
Butter, L-3 cup, 

Flour, iy 2 cups, 



(linger, 1 teaspoon, 
Soda, 1 teaspoon, 

Juice of 1 Lemon. 



Measure everything into cake bowl together. Dissolve the 
soda in a little water and add to the other ingredients. Stir just 
enough to mi \ all toget her. Bake in long or square pans iu a mod- 
erate oven. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 123 



PLAIN HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Sugar, 2 tea cups, j Nut Kernels, 1 tea cup, 

Butter, 2-3 tea cup, j Eggs, 3, 

Milk, 1 tea cup, | Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons, 

Flour, 3 tea cups, (a little heaping), 

Flavoring, to taste. 

Chop nut kernels rather fine. Beat sugar and butter to- 
gether, then add the eggs 1 at a time until all are in, beating 
meanwhile. Add the other ingredients, sifting the baking 
powder with the flour. Do not beat any more. Bake in medium 
hot oven. This makes 1 medium size loaf. Keeps well. 



HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Sugar, V/ 2 cups, j Sweet Milk, 1 cup 

Butter, y 2 CU P> I Chopped Hickory Nut Meats, 

Flour, 2 cups, 1 cup, 

Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons, Whites of Eggs, 5, 

Vanilla Flavoring. 

Cream the butter and sugar; then add the rest, the beaten 
whites of eggs last. This is nice with or without icing. Can be 
baked in a square pan to cut in squares, or in a round loaf in a 
tube pan. 

LUNCH CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup, | Flour, iy 2 cups, 

Butter, y 2 cup, j Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon, 

Milk, y 2 cup, j Vanilla, 1 teaspoon, 

Eggs, 2. 

Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating 
meanwhile. Then add other ingredients. Bake in a loaf and ice 
with the following icing: 

IVo cups sugar, 2-3 cup milk and 1 tablespoon butter boiled 
10 minutes or until it is as thick as cream. Beat until cold 
enough to spread and spread on cake, adding to the top a thin 
coating n f melted chocolate. 



124 KK LIABLE COOK BOOK. 



PINK AM) WHITE CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 ' •_. coffee cups, Flour, 3 coffee cups, 

Butter, y 2 coffee cup, j Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons, 

Sued Milk. 1 coffee cup, (a little heaping), 

Whites of EggS, 5. 

Cream butter and sugar together, then add the milk and 
flour, putting the baking powder in the flour. Then add the 
w hites df eggs beaten to a froth. To • •> of this mixture add a few 
drops of fruit coloring, enough to make a nice pink and flavor 
with vanilla. Flavor the white part with lemon. Drop in spoons- 
ful alternately in cake pan so it will he mottled like marble cake. 
Bake in moderate oven increasing heat after it has raised. Ice 
the top and sides with boiled icing or it is nice without. 

POOR MAN'S CAKE. 

Sugar, iy 2 tea cups, | Flour, 2 tea cups, 

Butter, y-2 tea cup, j Eggs, 2, 

Sweet Milk, y 2 tea cup, | Baking Powder, iy 2 teaspoons, 

y L » of a Nutmeg, grated. 

Beat sugar, butter and eggs together, then add the other 
ingredients, putting the baking powder in the flour. Bake in 
round tube pan in moderate oven. This makes 1 small loaf. 

PORK CAKE. 

Fat Salt Pork (Sinclair's) lib. Soda, 1 heaping teaspoon, 
Raisins, 1 pound, | Cinnamon, 2 heaping tea- 
Citron, y 2 pound, spoons, 
Boiling Water, 1 pint, j Mace, 2 heaping teaspoons, 
Sugar, 2 coffee cups, | Cloves, 1 heaping teaspoon, 
Molasses, 1 coffee cup, | Nutmeg, 1, 

Flour, enough to make pretty stiff. 

Use pork (Sinclair's) entirely free from lean or rind; chop 
so fine as to be almost like lard, (Sinclair's Fidelity) and pour on 
this the boiling water. Seed and chop the raisins and chop the 
citron. Dissolve soda in a little water and stir all of the ingred- 
ients together. Try a little in a patty I in and if it seems too rich 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 125 

or settles add more flour. Bake slowly in pan lined with paper 
as for other Fruit Cake. This will make 1 large loaf or two small 
ones. Is very nice and cheap as no butter, milk or eggs are 
used and requires no beating. Will keep a long time and im- 
prove with age. 

KAILROAD CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 tea cup, | Eggs, 3, 

Flour, 1 tea cup, | Baking Powder, 1 heaping tea- 
Sweet Milk, 2 tablespoons, spoon, 

Melted Butter, 2 tablespoons, j Flavoring. 

Stir all together. Bake in square pan in moderate oven. 
Best when fresh. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 tea cup, Warm Water, 3 teaspoons, 

Flour, 1 tea cup, | Vanilla, 1 teaspoon, 

Eggs, 3, j Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon, (a 

Vinegar, 1 dessertspoon, little heaping). 

Beat sugar and eggs until light, then add warm water, bak- 
rog powder sifted in the flour, vanilla, and beat thoroughly. Add 
vinegar, stirring briskly. Bake at once in a square pan in a 
medium hot oven. Sift powdered sugar over the top before bak- 
iDg as this makes it crusty on the surface. This will make a 
small cake. 

YELLOW SPONGE CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 pint, | Vinegar, 1 dessertspoon, 

Flour, 1 pint, | Baking Powder, 1 heaping tea- 
Eggs, 8, spoon, 

Cold Water, 3 tablespoons, | Flavor, to taste. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs with vinegar, add the sugar and 
beat very light, then add the water and flour having sifted the 
flour and baking powder together 3 times. Beat whites to a stiff 
froth and add last stirring them in very lightly. Bake in tube 
pan in moderate oven. Makes 1 large loaf. 



126 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Sugar, lVo cups, | J taking Powder, 1 teaspoon, (a 

Flour, 1 coffee cup, little heaping), 

Whites of Eggs, 11, Flavor, to taste. 

Sift sugar several times. Sift flour before measuring, then 
sift with baking powder several times. Beat eggs light, then add 
sugar a little at a time beating meanwhile, then add the rest. Bake 
in a deep, square or round pan in moderate oven increasing the 
heat a little after it has risen. This is nice with or without icing 
and will cut 22 pieces. 

SUNSHINE CAKE No. 1. 

Whites of Eggs, 7, | Flour, 2-3 cup, 

Yolks of Eggs, 5, I Cream Tartar, 1-3 heaping tea- 

Granulated Sugar, 1 cup, | spoon, 

Flavoring. 

Sift and measure sugar and flour as for Angel Food. Beat 
yolks of eggs thoroughly, then after washing beater, add a pinch 
of salt to whites of eggs and beat about half stiff enough, then add 
cream tartar and beat until very, very stiff. Stir in sugar lightly, 
then beaten yolks thoroughly, then add flour; put in ungreased 
tube pan and bake the same as Angel Food. 



SUNSHINE CAKE No. 2. 

Eggs. (I. | Flour, 1 cup, 

Granulated Sugar, 1 cup, | Cream Tartar, y 2 teaspoon, 

Flavoring. 

Follow directions for Sunshine Cake No. 1. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 127 



Butter, 1 tea cup, 
Brown Sugar, 1 tea cup, 
Molasses, 1 tea cup, 
Sour Milk, 1 tea cup, 
Flour, 4 tea cups, 



SPICE CAKE. 

Eggs, 2, 

Soda, 1 teaspoon (a little heap- 
ing), 
Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon, 
Cloves, 1 teaspoon, 
Mace, 1 teaspoon. 

One cup of raisins may be added if desired. Stir all of the 
ingredients together and bake in tube pan in moderate oven. 
This makes 1 medium size loaf. 

SPANISH BUN. 

Light Brown Sugar, 1 pint, | Eggs, 4, 
Butter, y 2 cup, j Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons, 

Sweet Milk, 2-3 cup, | Cloves, y 2 teaspoon, 

Chopped Raisins, 1 cup, j Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons, 

Flour, 1 pint. 

Stir sugar and butter together, add the eggs, then add the 
other ingredients, sifting the baking powder with a little of the 
flour. Bake in a long pan in a moderate oven and cut in squares. 
[«•<' with the following 

ICING. 

Granulated Sugar, 1 cup, | Sweet Milk, y 2 cup, 

Chopped Raisins, 1 cup. 

Cook until thick and spread over the top of the cake. 

WHITE TEA CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 tea cup, | Flour, 1 tea cup, 

Butter, y 2 tea cup, j Whites of Eggs, 3, 

Sweet Milk, 2-3 tea cup, j Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons 

Corn Starch, y 2 tea cup, (a little heaping), 

Orange or Rose Flavoring, y 2 teaspoon. 

Cream butter and sugar. Add corn starch dissolved in the 
milk, then add the other ingredients. Beat whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth and add last, stirring very gently. Bake in moderate 
oven. This makes a small loaf. 



128 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Layer Cakes 



ALMOND CAKE. 



Sugar, 1 J 2 cups, Whites of Eggs, 4, 

Butter, scant y 2 cup, j Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons 

Sweet Milk, 1 cup, (a little heaping), 

Flour, 2y 2 cups, j Almond Flavoring y 2 teaspoon 

Cream the butter and sugar very light; then add the milk 
and 2 cups of flour, sifted before measuring; stir this until 
smooth; then add the other y 2 cup of flour with baking powder, 
and the whites of the eggs last, beaten to a froth. Do not beat 
the mixture after the whites are in; stir very lightly, just enough 
to mix them through the dough. Bake in 3 round layers or 2 
Jong pans in medium hot oven. Put paper in pans and do not 
bake brown. They want to be very white when cake is finished. 
Use coffee cup to measure. When a little cool turn out on a cake 
board, strip off the paper and put them together with the follow- 
ing cream filling: 

Sweet ('ream, y 2 pint, | Sugar, 2 tablespoons, (a little 

Corn Starch, 1 heaping tea- j heaping;, 

spoon, i Yolks of Eggs, 3. 

Put the crea n the stove in a double boiler; beat the 

yolks and sugar together; wet the corn starch with milk until 
smooth ; when the cream is hot stir in the mixture and stir until 
quite thick ; set out to cool; blanch and chop y 2 pound almonds 
medium fine, take out half or little more for outside of the cake, 
then (diop the rest a little more and stir them into the cream fill- 
ing and spread between the layers, Have the cakes and filling 
perfectly cold before putting together. If round layers, turn 
top side down on large flat plate; they fit better built up in this 
way. The layers should be about I 1 /, inches thick so it will make 
a large cake. Ice on the top and sides with the following boiled 
icing, then stew the almonds over the top and sides. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 129 



BOILED ICING. 

Put on the stove in small stew pan 1 cup granulated sugar, y 2 
cup water, and stir until dissolved; then let boil until it threads, 
about 10 minutes. Wet the fingers and take a little from the 
spoon and when it forms a thread it is done. A little experience 
will enable you to tell just how thick to cook it. Have the 
whites of 2 eggs beaten very stiff; pour this boiling sugar in a 
fine stream on the Avhites, beating with an egg beater or a large 
spoon ; beat until cold, it will begin to stiffen ; then pour on the 
cake; it will be smooth and crusty on the outside and creamy 
within; if the sugar is not cooked enough it will run off the 
cake; if cooked too much it will be sugary and hard; if it seems 
this way a few drops of hot water stirred in before spreading on 
the cake will remedy it. Add a few drops of almond flavoring to 
the icing. 

If a square cake of 2 layers is desired, bake in square or long 
pans and turn on a board and finish same as the round ones. This 
is nice to cut in squares. 

BANANA CAKE. 

Sugar, iy 2 cups, | Flour, 

Butter, 2-3 cup, j Baking Powder, 2 level tea- 

Milk, good y 2 cup, spoons, 

Whites of Eggs, 6. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk and flour alternately, bak- 
ing powder and beaten whites of eggs last. Bake in layers. When 
cold, turn out and put together with the following filling : Make 
a Boiled Icing, (see recipe). When cold, spread between layers, 
then put a layer of sliced bananas. Finish top of cake with plain 
icing. This is better used the same day it is baked. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup, | Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons, 

Flour, iy 2 cups, | Eggs, 3, 

Sweet Cream, 2 tablespoons. 

Beat all together, and bake in 3 layers. When cold, put to- 
gether with the following filling : 



130 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Place in stew | >aii 1 scant pint of milk and put on stove. Beat 
together 2 eggs, 1 small cup of sugar, and 2 tablespoons of corn 
starcli wet with a little cold milk. When the milk boils, put in 
the above mixture and stir until it thickens; then remove from 
the stove, and when cold, flavor to suit taste. Spread between 
the layers. 

CARMEL FIG CAKE. 

Make a cake, using the recipe for White Fig Cake. Bake 
in 2 layers either square or round. Make a Carmel Icing, then 
with the scissors cut y 2 pound or more of figs in pieces the size of 
a raisin. Stir them in the carmel and spread between the layers 
and on top and sides of cake. 

WHITE FIG CAKE. 

Sugar, iy 2 cups, | Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons, 

Butter, y 2 cup, j Sweet Milk, 1 cup, 

Flour, 2y 2 cups, Whites of Eggs, 4, 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Cream the butter and sugar; add 2 cups of the flour and the 
nvJk, beating it meanwhile; then add the }/% cup of flour with the 
baking powder sifted in ; beat the whites of eggs to a froth \ not 
too stiff) and add to the mixture, stirring gently, just enough to 
mix them through. Bake at once in 3 round or square tins lined 
with slightly greased paper. When cold, turn out, strip off the 
paper, and put together with the following: 

FIG PASTE. 

Remove the stems and chop fine 1 pound of figs ; place in a 
slew pan and add iy 2 cups of water, 2-3 cup of sugar and the 
juice of 1 lemon; let simmer until thick. Stir often or it will 
burn. When perfectly cold, spread between the layers, dividing 
it equally for each and on top. If the cakes and paste are put 
together warm, they will soak. Have them both cold. Then it is 
ready to finish. Make Boiled Icing (see recipe) and put on top, 
I'M ting run down on the sides; smooth around the edge with a 
knife and set in a cool place so the icing will harden. Flavor 
the icing with a few drops of orange or vanilla. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 131 



HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Make a White Cake the same as for Lemon Jelly Cake, add 
a few drops of almond flavoring and bake in round or square tins; 
put together with the following 

WHITE FILLING. 

Sweet Cream, y 2 pint, | Sugar, 1 tablespoon, 

Corn Starch, 1 heaping tea- | Whites of Eggs, 2, 

spoon, I Hickory Nut Meats, y 2 or 2-3 

| cup. 

Place the cream in a small stew pan and set this in another 
pan containing hot water. Dissolve the corn starch in a little 
cold milk, add the sugar and stir this into the hot cream, stirring 
until thick, then remove. While hot, add the beaten whites of 
eggs, let cool, then add the nuts chopped rather fine which gives 
a nutty flavor. When cakes and filling are cold, put together. 
Ice the top and sides with Boiled Icing, (see recipe), putting it 
on before it has time to harden, then sprinkle all over with 
chopped nut meats allowing about 1 pint for the whole cake. 

JELL ROLL. 

Sugar, 1 cup, | Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon, 

Flour, 1 cup, I Sweet Cream, 3 tablespoons, 

Eggs, 3. 

Beat the sugar and eggs together, add the flour and beat 
well; add the balance of the ingredients. Bake about 15 minutes 
in a quick oven. Turn out While warm, spread with any kind of 
soft jell, roll up and wrap in a cloth until cold. (Milk may be 
substituted for the cream by adding to the milk 1 teaspoon of 
butter). 

JELL CAKE. 

Sugar, 2 cups, | Flour, l 1 /^ pints, 

Butter, 3-4 cup, | Eggs, 5, 

Milk, 1 cup, | Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Cream butter and sugar together, adding eggs 1 at a time, 



132 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



beating 5 minutes between each one. Then add milk and flour 
m which the baking powder has been sifted. Bake in layers. 
When cold, spread with any kind of soft jelly between the layers. 
Ice the top or leave it plain. The jelly is supposed to be of good 
flavor so that no other flavor is necessary. 

LEMON JELLY CAKE. 

Sugar, iy 2 cups, | Cold Water, 3-4 cup, 

Butter, y 2 cup, | Whites of Eggs, 5, 

Flour, 3 cups, j Baking Powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Cream butter and beat in sugar a little at a time and drop 
in white of eggs 1 at a time beating well after each addition. Add 
flour and water alternately, baking powder last. Beat thoroughly 
after all the flour is in. Bake in layers. When cold, put together 
with the following filling: 

LEMON FILLING. 

Sugar, 1 cup, | Eggs, 2, 

Water, 2-3 cup, | Lemon, 1, 

Take juice and grated rind of lemon as for pies. Add to 
sugar and water and put in small stew pan and place in pan of 
hot water. Boil 10 minutes. Beat eggs, add to this and stir until 
thick. When cold, spread between layers. Ice the top with 
Boiled Icing or leave plain. 

MAPLE SUGAR CAKE. 

Butter, y 2 cup, | Baking Powder, 1 1-2 tea- 
Sugar, 1 cup, spoons, 
Milk, 2-3 cup, | Whites of Eggs, 2. 
Flour, iy 2 cups. Yolks of Eggs, 3. 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks of eggs, then milk 
and flour, stirring in a little of the flour at a time. Put the bak- 
ing powder in the last half cup of flour and sift into the cake, 
beating thoroughly. Then add the whites of the eggs beaten very 
stiff and stir very gently without beating. Make a Boiled Icing 
using 1 cup of Maple Syrup instead of sugar and water. Spread 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 133 

this between the layers and ice the top and sides of the cake with 
it. If icing is not as thick as desired for top and sides double the 
recipe. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE. 

Sugar, 2 cups, | Baking Powder, 3 teaspoons, 

Butter, 3-4 cup, j Flour, 3*4 cups, 

Cold Water, 1 cup, j Vanilla, V- 2 teaspoon. 

Whites of Eggs, 3-4 cup, | Pineapple, y 2 teaspoon. 

Cream butter, then gradually beat in the sugar. Add flour 
and water alternately, and lastly whites of eggs and baking pow- 
der, beating in the meanwhile. Beat batter very smooth before 
adding whites of eggs, baking powder and flavoring. Bake in 2 
square layers. 

CREAM FROSTING. 

Three cups sugar, iy± cups boiling water and 2 saltspoons 
cream of tartar. Boil this until it will spin a thread. Remove 
from fire and drip slowly over beaten whites of 4 eggs. Stir 
rapidly and continue beating until of the proper consistency. Cut 
4 sticks marshmallows into a bowl. Mix with it enough icing to 
cover well. Spread a layer with the icing and marshmallows, 
place the other cake on and ice the top and place marshmallows 
over it, using 12 sticks in all. 

ORANGE CAKE No. 1. 

Make White Layer Cake as directed for Almond or Lemon 
Jelly Cake. When cold, put together with filling. 

When using oranges on the table, take the shell and with a 
teaspoon scrape out all the pulp that remains. Wash clean and 
lay on a plate to dry on top of warm oven or in the sun. Prepare 
a quantity during the season of the best oranges. It will keep a 
year in a dry place. When wanted use a lemon grater and grate 
all the yellow off but not the white. This will be a dry, yellow 
powder. 

For the cake filling make a Boiled Icing, (see recipe). When 
your icing begins to stiffen, pour half of it in a dish and add 2 



134 EELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

tablespoons orange powder, stir and spread between the layers. 
Then pour the rest of the icing on top of the cake, letting it run 
down on the sides, smooth it around with a knife and then 
sprinkle dry orange powder on top and sides, enough to make it 
look quite yellow. Do this quickly, before the icing has time to 
harden. Do not flavor the cake, the orange in the icing is suf- 
ficient. This does not soak in the cake like other orange and will 
keep 2 or 3 days. 

ORANGE CAKE No. 2. 

Make a White Layer Cake as directed for Almond or Lemon 
Jelly Cake, and when cold put together with the following filling : 
Make a filling as given in Lemon Jelly Cake, (see recipe), only 
use orange instead of lemon. Spread between layers and leave 
top plain or ice with Boiled Icing. 

ORANGE CAKE No. 3. 

Make layer cake as directed above. When cold put together 
with the following filling. Make a Boiled Icing, (see recipe). 
Peel and slice orange thin. Spread layers with boiled icing, 
then layer of sliced orange, then layer of cake, icing and 
oranges. Finish with plain icing on top. 

PINEAPPLE CAKE. 

Make a SVhite Layer Cake as for Lemon Jelly Cake. When 
cold, put together with the following filling : 

Make a Boiled Icing by taking 2 cups sugar, whites of 3 eggs 
and V 2 cup hot water. Place sugar and water on stove in small 
stew pan. Cook until it will spin a thread from the spoon. Have 
ready the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pour the hot 
syrup in a small stream of the whites, beating all the time. Be«it 
until very stiff, then stir in 1 cup fresh pineapple grated or 
chopped fine. Spread between layers, on top and sides. If 
canned pineapple is used, get the sliced and turn in a stew pan 
and simmer until tender, then cool and chop. The grated pine- 
apple we buy is so full of pips it is not as nice as the fresh or 
sliced. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 135 

If you want something fine, put up your own when fresh 
pineapples are in season by recipe given in this book. Mine cost 
22 cents per quart, glass cans. It goes as far in using for sherbet, 
ices, ice cream, puddings and cakes as two 25 cent cans that we 
buy. 



136 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Little Cakes 



ALMOND CAKES. 



Sugar, 1 cup, Eggs, 2, 

Butter, i/. cup, | Soda, y 2 teaspoon, 

Sour Cream, 3 tablespoons, j Cream of Tartar, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour. 

Mix as other cakes; cut round or square, and strew finely 
chopped almonds over the top before placing in the oven; bake 
quickly a nice brown. Will keep and improve. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Whiles of Eggs, 3, | Powdered Sugar, l / 2 pound. 

Shelled Almonds, V. pound, Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Blanch and chop or grind the nuts a day or two before usiug 
if possible; they must be very fine. Add a pinch of salt to eggs 
and beat until light and dry, then add the sifted sugar and stir 
lightly. Add the nuts a few at a time, then the vanilla. Line a 
pan with buttered paper and drop the macaroons with a tea- 
spoon. Bake in moderate oven. Let cool slightly, then loosen 
with a klife. This makes 3 dozen. 

CALL A LILY CAKES. 

Granulated Sugar, 1 cup, | Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 cup, | Water, 1 tablespoon, 

Put together according to formula for Chantilly Pudding. 
Bake thin in saucers and when taken from the oven roll up like 
a funnel and tie in that shape. When cold, remove the strings and 
fill with whipped cream or jelly, or ice the inside and outside 
with white icing, cutting a long, square strip of orange and lay 
inside. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 137 



SOFT COOKIES. 

Sugar, 2 cups, | Soda, 1 teaspoon heaping, 

Butter, 1 cup, j Cream of Tartar, 1 teaspoon 

Sour Cream, 1 cup, heaping, 

Eggs, 4, | Nutmeg, 1. 

Flour. 

Beat the sugar and eggs until light; then add the butter 
(which should be soft) and sour cream, with the soda and 
cream tartar stirred in; mix soft, and do not stir in too much 
flour at first, but work in some on the board. They are hard 
to manage at first, as they must be soft to be good. Bake in 
quick oven a light brown. Do not roll too thin — about Vo inch 
thick. Try one, and if it spreads too much, mix in more flour. 
These are very nice and will keep a long time in a stone jar. 

CRULLERS OR FRIED CAKES No. 1. 

Sugar, 2 tea cups, | Eggs, 2, 

Thin Sweet Cream, 2 tea cups, | Flour, enough to roll rather 

Baking Powder, 2 heaping tea- | soft, 

spoons, j Flavor, to taste. 

Mix all together. Make in twisters or cut in rings and fry 
in hot lard, (Sinclair's Fidelity). Sift powdered sugar over 
them while warm. These are more delicate than those made with 
shortening. 

CRULLERS No. 2. 

Sugar, 1 coffee cup, | Soda, 1 level teaspoon, 

Sour Cream, 1 coffee cup, | Small Nutmeg, 1, 

Eggs, 2, j Salt, a little, 

Flour, enough to roll. 

Beat sugar and eggs together and add soda dissolved in the 
(•ream. Then add the other ingredients. Fry the same as Dough- 
nuts and dust with powdered sugar. If the cream is very rich, 
they will need to be a little stiffer. Try 1 and add more flour if 
needed. 



138 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



DOUGHNUTS No. 1. 



White Sugar, 1 cup, 

Light Brown Sugar, 2-3 cup, 

Buttermilk, 1 pint, 

Eggs, 3, 

Soda, 1 level teaspoon, 



Baking Powder, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon, 

Melted Butter and (Sinclair's 
Fidelity) Lard Mixed, 3 
tablespoons, 

Nutmeg or Cinnamon, 
Flour. 

Beat sugar and eggs together, then add the other ingred- 
ients, sifting in enough flour to make a soft dough; take out on 
the board using just enough flour to roll; have them rather soft. 
Have a kettle y 2 full of the prepared fat (see recipe) or use 
lard, (Sinclair's Fidelity). When boiling hot, drop in dough- 
nuts cut any shape you like and fry a nice brown, turning 2 or 3 
times, then lift out on soft paper to absorb the grease. Do not 
have fat too hot or they will get too brown, before they are done 
through; a little practice will soon enable you to do them just 
right. Sift powdered sugar on doughnuts while hot. When per- 
fectly cold, place in a stone jar. They will keep good several 
days. 



DOUGHNUTS -No. 2. 



Sugar, 1 cup, 
Sour Milk, 1 cup, 

Eggs, 2, 



| Soda, 1 level teaspoon, 

I Melted Butter, 3 tablespoons, 

| Nutmeg, 1, 

Flour. 



Make the same as Doughnuts No. 1. 



GINGER SNAPS. 



Molasses, 1 tea cup, 
Sugar, 1 tea cup, 
Butter, 6 tablespoons, 
Ginger, 1 tablespoon, 



Water, 4 tablespoons, 
Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons, 
Flour, enough to mix quite 
stiff and hard, 



Soda, 1 teaspoon. 
Stir all the ingredients together. Roll thin and bake in 



quick oven. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



139 



GINGER NUTS. 



Sugar, 1 tea cup, 
Butter, 1 tea cup, 
Molasses, 1 tea cup, 



Ginger, 1 tablespoon, 
Flour, as much as can be 
stirred in with a spoon, 



Soda, 1 heaping teaspoon. 

Dissolve soda in a little water. Stir all the ingredients to- 
gether. Pinch off pieces about half as large as an egg; roll 
round in the hands and flatten with a spat of the hand. Place 
in pans, leaving room for them to spread a little. Bake in mod- 
erate oven a nice brown. Let remain in pans until cool. 



GINGER COOKIES. 



Molasses, 1 cup, 
Brown Sugar, 1 cup, 
Butter and (Sinclair's Fidel- 
ity) Lard Mixed, 1 cup, 

Eggs, 2, 



Sour Milk, 4 tablespoons, 
Ginger, 2 heaping teaspoons, 
Cinnamon, 1 heaping teaspoon, 
Cloves, y 2 heaping teaspoon, 
Soda, 1 heaping teaspoon, 



Flour. 

Beat sugar and eggs together, then add the other ingredients. 
Dissolve the soda in the milk. Sift in flour until as stiff as can 
be stirred with a spoon, then work in some more on the bread so 
they are rather stiff. Roll y 2 inch thick and cut out like any 
cookies. Bake in moderate oven. 



SOFT GINGER CAKES. 



Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon, 
Cloves, 1 teaspoon, 
Mace, 1 teaspoon, 
Soda, 2 teaspoons. 



Sugar, 1 cup, 
Molasses, 1 cup, 
Butter, 1 cup, 
Thick Sour Cream, 1 cup, 

Mix all together and add flour until as soft as can be 
stirred with a spoon. Drop large spoonsful in a greased drip- 
ping pan, and bake in a moderate oven. They will run together ; 
cut apart, lay on napkin or white paper and put in a jar or can 
when cold. They will keep good a long time and will not hurt 
children. 



140 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



GINGER BALLS. 



Molasses, 1 cup, 
A or Brown Sugar, 1 cup, 
Lard (Sinclair's Fidelity) and 
Butter, or all Lard, 1 cup, 
Boiling Water, 1 cup, 



Soda, 1 level tablespoon, 

Ginger, 1 level tablespoon, 

Flour, 3 cups, 

Salt, V2 teaspoon, 

Eggs, 3 whole ones or 6 yolks. 



Mix sugar, salt and ginger together dry. Add butter and 
mix well. Then add molasses. It does not require beating. Beat 
eggs until very light and add to the mixture. Add flour a little 
al a time. Put soda in the egg dish and water in the molasses 
dish, then pour the water over the soda and add to the mixture. 
Beat until smooth and bake in gem pans in a moderate oven 
about 20 minutes. This makes 22. 



Butter, y 2 cup, 
Sugar, 2 cups, 
Cold Water, 1 cup, 



GOLD CAKES. 

| Yolks of Eggs, 6, 
I Flour, 4 cups, 
I Baking Powder, 4 teaspoons, 
Nutmeg, 14 teaspoon. 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs well beaten; 
flour and water alternately; beat well. Sift baking powder with 
the last y 2 cup flour and beat all thoroughly. Bake in gem 
irons or tin moulds. 

HICKORY NUT MACAROONS. 

Make just the same as Almond Macaroons using hickory 
nuts instead of almonds. 



RICH JUMBLES. 



Flour, V/ 2 pounds, 



Eggs, 4, 



Sugar, 1 pound. 
Butter, 1 pound, 

Flavoring, or a little Brandy. 

Cream sugar and butter, then add the other ingredients. 
Roll thin, using more flour to roll out. Sprinkle sugar over 
the top or roll it in the dough when cutting the cakes out. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



141 



L T se rather large cooky cutter, then cut a hole in the center and 
bake in a hot oven. Will keep a long time. 



SAND TARTS. 



Baking Powder, 3 heaping tea- 
spoons, 
Flour, enough for rather soft 



dough. 



Sugar, 2 coffee cups, 
Butter, 1 coffee cup, 
Sweet Milk, y 2 coffee cup, 
Eggs, 4, 

Mix as for Cookies with rather soft dough. Cut with square 
cooky cutter and sprinkle sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg over the 
fop. Bake quickly. 

SPICE CAKES. 



Sugar, 1 cup, 
Butter, y 2 cup, 
Molasses, 1 cup, 
Hot Water, 1 cup, 
Flour, 3 cups, 

Stir all of the ingredients together and bake in gem pans. 



Soda, 1 teaspoon, (dissolved 

in the water), 
Cloves, 1 teaspoon, 
Ginger, 1 teaspoon, 
Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 



H^ RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Cake Icings 



BOILED ICING No. 1. 

Granulated Sugar, 1 cup, White of Eggs, 1, 

Water, 1-3 cup, | Flavoring. 

Boil sufear and water together without stirring until it will 
hair or thread between the thumb and finger ; then pour in a fine 
stream over the stiffly beaten white of egg, beating while you 
pour and continue to beat until cold enough to spread on cake. 
When cold, add flavoring to suit the taste; it is nice to use sev- 
eral different kinds together. If the sugar is not cooked enough 
the icing will run off the cake ; if too much it will be hard and 
sugary ; a few drops of hot water added will remedy the latter. 
A little experience will soon make perfect. It will be very 
creamy if made just right. 

BOILED ICING No. 2. 

Granulated Sugar, 1 coffee cup | Whites of Eggs, 2, 
Water, y 2 coffee cup, | Flavoring. 

Make the same as Boiled Icing No. 1. 

CARMEL ICING. 

Dark Brown Sugar, V/ 2 cups, | Boiling Water, y 2 cup, 
A Sugar, V/ 2 cups, | Cream, y 2 cup, 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Boil sugar and water until it will break like molasses candy 
when dropped in cold water. Remove from fire and stir in butter 
and cream, and add 1 teaspoon vanilla. Stir until thick and 
spread when cold. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 143 



CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Granulated Sugar, 1 cup, | Grated Chocolate, 2 heaping 

Water, y 2 cup, tablespoons, 

Whites of Eggs, 2. 

Boil water and sugar until it will hair, then add melted 
chocolate and stir until smooth. Pour in fine stream over whites 
of eggs beaten very stiff. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla and beat until 
cold. Spread on cake. 



CHOCOLATE CARMEL ICING. 

Brown Sugar, 2 cups, ] Baker's Chocolate, grated, 14 

Sweet Milk, y 2 cup, cake, 

Soda, a pinch, | Vanilla, 1 teaspoon, 

Flour, 1 teaspoon, j Butter, 1 teaspoon. 

Boil sugar, flour, chocolate, butter and milk together until 
of the consistency of jelly. Remove from fire and add soda and 
vanilla. Stir until cold and spread between layers of cake. 



CHOCOLATE CREAM ICING. 

Boil 2 cups granulated sugar, y 2 cup hot water and a pinch 
of cream of tartar until it will hair. Have ready whites of 2 
eggs beaten very stiff and drop syrup very slowly over them, 
beating all the time until thick enough to spread. Flavor with 
1-4 teaspoon vanilla, 1-4 teaspoon lemon and 5 drops pineapple. 
Mix 3 tablespoons grated chocolate with 3 tablespoons sugar and 
2 tablespoons cold water. Stir this over fire until smooth and 
glossy. Cool slowly and mix well with the white icing. 

GELATINE ICING. 

Take a large pinch of gelatine and put it in 4 tablespoons 
cold water. Set on stove and stir until dissolved. Add powdered 
sugar until it will just run. Beat hard until white and flavor to 
taste. Color with V 2 cup pistachio nut meats chopped fine in a 
mortar. 



144 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



PINK ICING. 

.Make a Boiled Icing (see recipe) and color with fruit col- 
oring. 

YELLOW ICING. 

Boil 2 cups sugar and 5 or 6 tablespoons water until it will 
Lair. Beat yolks of 2 eggs well, add the juice of 1 orange and 
grated peel to taste. Pour hot syrup over eggs and beat until 
lio-ht and cold. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 145 



Beverages 



COFFEE. 

In order to make good coffee, there are several points that 
are absolutely necessary to be observed. First, have good flavored 
coffee, the Steele- Wedels Co. Mocha and Java, is one of the fin- 
est brands, then grind it medium or rather fine. Next, have your 
coffee pot clean. Break into a cup 1 egg, beat it, then add cold 
water to fill the cup 2-3 full; pour 1-3 of this over 4 heaping 
tablespoons of the ground coffee, stir thoroughly, then put it in 
the coffee pot. Pour over the coffee 2y 2 pints of boiling water 
and set it back where it will steep, not boil, for 30 minutes, then 
set it in front where it will boil up. After it boils about 5 min- 
utes take off and add a spoonful of cold water to settle it, let 
stand a moment, then serve with cream as milk will spoil even 
good coffee. This recipe makes '5 cups. If a common granite 
ironware or metal coffee pot is used, place a piece of man ilia 
paper in the spout to keep the aroma from escaping; the patetn 
coffee pots are generally air tight. Never use a tin coffee pot. 
Do not attempt to make coffee by cooking the old grounds over 
from time to time, but steep it long enough at first to get all the 
strength out. If coffee is left over it need not be wasted; drain 
it off in a dsih, throw out the grounds, wash and scald the coffee 
pot, then pour in the cold coffee and set it on the stove. Wet . 
some freshly ground coffee with the egg mixture, put it in the 
coffee pot and steep the same as fresh coffee. This will be nice 
even if only a little coffee is added. 



146 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



CHOCOLATE. 

Sweel chocolate, 12 level ta- | Milk, 1 quart, 

blespoons, | Sugar, 1 tal)lespoon, 

Hot Water, 3 tablespoons. 

Cut chocolate in fine bits. Put milk in double boiler and 
when it is heated to the boiling point, put chocolate, sugar and 
water in a small iron or granite pan and stir over a hot fire until 
smooth and glossy. Stir this mixture into the hot milk and Iwat 
well. Serve at once putting on top of each cup 1 tablespoon of 
whipped cream. 

COCOA. 

Cocoa, 2 tablespoons, Boiling Water, y 2 pint, 

Sugar. '2 tablespoons, | Milk, I 1 - pints, 

Cream, 1 gill. 

Put milk on stove in double boiler. Put cocoa and sugar in 
a sauce pan and gradually pour hot water upon them, stirring 
all the time. Place sauce pan on stove and stir until boiling. 
Le1 boil 5 minutes, then add boiling milk and cream and serve 
hot. The above will make 6 cups. 

EGG NOG. 

For 1 glass of egg nog, separate 1 fresh egg putting white 
in a saucer and yolk in a glass. To yolk add 1 teaspoon sugar 
heating well, then add about 1 tablespoon (according to 
si length) good whisky or brandy, beating all the time. The 
liquor will cook the egg so it will be thick. Fill glass 2-3 full 
with rich milk. Beat white to a froth and stir in the glass. If 
the liquor is not liked, use 1 teaspoon to cook egg, then add wine 
to flavor, or any flavoring extract. Very nutritious for the sick 
or convalescent. 

MULLED BUTTERMILK. 

Stir together 1 tablespoon flour wet smooth with a little 
milk, 1 egg and 1 level teaspoon sugar. Add to 1 quart butter- 
milk. Place on stove and stir until it boils. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 147 



PANADA. 

Brown nicely 3 slices of bread and pour over them 1 pint 
boiling water. Let stand until the bread is thoroughly soaked. 
Squeeze all the substance of the bread into the water, sweeten 
to taste and add a little lemon juice, (or any other flavoring de- 
sired), also a suspicion of nutmeg. Serve to the sick in a pretty 
dish. 

RASPBERRY ACID. 

To 3 quarts of red raspberries take 1 quart of vinegar. Mash 
berries and put in a stone jar. Pour vinegar over, cover and stir 
every day for 4 or 5 days keeping in a cool place. Then strain, 
and taking as much sugar as you have juice, boil 10 or 15 min- 
utes. While hot seal air tight. When you wish to use it, take Y> 
glass of the acid to y 2 glass of water or to suit the taste. It is 
very nice to also add shaved ice. This makes a cooling and de- 
licious beverage. 

TEA. 

Tea should be steeped, not boiled. Rinse out the tea pot 
with boiling water, and then put in tea (either green or black) 
allowing 1 heaping teaspoon for 6 cups, or more, according to the 
strength required. Pour on boiling water and set back to steep 
10 minutes. 

ICED TEA. 

Steep tea until well infused. Then strain through cheese 
cloth into stone or earthen vessel. When cold, serve with 
cracked ice, also sugar and cream if desired. 

BEEF TEA. 

Remove all fat and gristle from meat. Lay a piece of 
round steak flat on the table and scrape from both sides all that 
you can, and cut the balance in small pieces. Place in a stew 
pan and add iy 2 pints cold water to 1 pound meat. Set on stove 
and let simmer for 1 hour. The above quantity should make 
nearly 1 pint when done. Add a sprinkling of salt and pepper. 
Strain and serve hot. 



148 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Canned Fruit and Preserves 



NOTE ON CANNING FRUITS. 

Have glass cans, lids and rubbers all washed clean. Scald 
cans and lids with hot water, pouring water outside and inside 
at the same time so jars will not crack, and let stand in water to 
thoroughly sweeten. When ready to use, have a pan of hot water, 
dip the jar in, rolling it around, have a cloth to lift it out 
wrapping it around the jar. Hold close to the kettle of fruit 
and fill. Set on table, wipe off, place on rubber and lid. When 
all are done, look them over and turn lids down as tightly as 
possible. Tip upside down and let stand until next morning. Be- 
fore putting away, look them all over again and tighten. 

Use good rubbers. It is best to buy new ones if old ones are 
doubtful. Keep fruit in cold, dark place. Use white granu- 
lated sugar unless otherwise directed. Have fresh fruit and of 
good quality. It is a good plan to use some pint jars, espe- 
cially for berries as a small quantity is often wanted for pud- 
-lings, etc. 

TO CAN FRUIT JUICES. 

Prepare the juice from any kind of fruit the same as for 
jelly. Boil about 5 minutes, then seal boiling hot in glass jars, 
same as fruit. (This is nice for mixing mince meat, flavoring 
puddings, drinks, or making jelly. It retains the flavor and is 
better prepared in this way than to make a large quantity of 
jelly during the summer. It can be turned out and the jelly 
made in a verv few minutes. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 149 



CANNED BLACKBERRIES. 

To each 1 quart jar allow 1 1-3 quarts of berries, 1 tea cup 
of sugar and about 2 tea cups of water. Enough to fill 3 or 4 
jars can be cooked at a time as they do not mash easily. Cook 
about 8 or 10 minutes. Fill jars and seal. 

CHERRIES. 

Pick over, wash and remove the pits, (either with cherry 
pitter or by hand). To each 1 quart jar allow 1 coffee cup of 
sugar and enough water to make a juice the same as for sauce. 
Cook about 15 minutes and if very ripe not quite so long. Take 
out some to cool and taste and if not sweet enough add more 
sugar. More water can also be added if necessary while cooking. 
Try and fix just as you would to use on the table. Dip in jars 
dividing fruit and juice equally. Seal hot. Enough to fill 3 
jars can be cooked at once. 

LATE CHERRIES 

Proceed the same as above only they require more sugar as 
they are generally quite sour. 

CURRANTS 

Stem currants. To each quart of currants add 1 cup of 
sugar and 1 cup of water. Cook about 5 minutes after they 
begin to boil. Seal the same as other fruit. They can be canned 
without sugar if preferred. 

GOOSEBERRIES 

Pick over Tame or Wild Gooseberries. Put on to cook with 
water to just cover. As soon as hot dip carefully into jars and 
seal. If thoroughly hot they do not need to boil. They will 
not mash up done in this way and retain their flavor much 
better than if sugar is used. When wanted for sauce, turn 
out in kettle, add sugar to taste and let come to boil. Cool 
before serving. For pies, sweeten berries after putting into the 
crust and bake. Wild gooseberries have a very tine flavor when 
full grown or nearly ripe. 



150 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

PLUMS. 

Take large, red. plums before they are quite ripe, just about 
right to peel. Peel as thin as possible with paring knife. Lay 
in porcelain kettle, sprinkle sugar over them, allowing 1 pint 
of sugar to each quart of plums. Cover and let stand until 
morning. Then heat thoroughly, shaking the kettle instead of 
stirring. Cook 5 minutes, dip carefully into jars and seal. If 
not sweet enough use more sugar. Some plums require more 
sugar than others. They are delicious. 

BAKED PEACHES. 

Use good flavored, ripe peaches. Wipe off the down with 
a cloth, do not peel. Lay in a broad granite pan. Strew sugar 
over the top, using 1 quart to 10 or 12 peaches. Set in moderate 
oven and bake iy 2 hours. They are fine, very rich and nice 
color. Serve cold. 

To can the same, have jars ready, dip the peaches care- 
fully in while hot, divide the juice equally and seal immediately. 
When opened you will find them superior to any other method, 
not excepting the old way of making peach preserves. 

PEACHES. 

Pare and cut in halves good, ripe peaches. Place in granite 
kettle and cover with sugar, using about 1 quart of sugar to 2 
quarts of peaches. Turn a plate over them and let stand over 
night. Then place on the stove and let simmer until hot through 
and juice seems rich, Too long cooking will make them soft. If 
not juicy enough add a little water. Carefully lift the peaches 
into the jar filling about 2-3 full, then finish filling with the 
syrup. Seal while hot. 

PEARS. 

I se Bartlett Pears or any good flavored ones. Peel and 
halve, taking out the core. Put in kettle with water to barely 
cover. AHoav 1 cup of sugar to each quart of fruit. Simmer 
until tender but not too soft. Fill jars and seal. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 151 

BLACK RASPBERRIES. 

The .same as Blackberries. 

RED RASPBERRIES. 

To each 1 quart jar allow 3 pints of berries, 1 coffee cup of 
sugar, y 2 cup of water and % cup of currant juice, (prepared 
as for jell). Put water, sugar and juice in a 4 or 5 quart pan, 
then add the berries. Let them heat thoroughly, just coming to 
the boil. If cooked much they will go to pieces. Shaking the 
pan from side to side will heat them in the juice without stirring. 
You can keep 2 pans going at the same time as it does not take 
so long and they are much nicer to only heat enough in 1 pan 
for one jar at a time. They are the hardest of any fruit to can 
and keep whole. If properly done and the berries are not too 
ripe they will not mash at all. I have tried many ways but like 
this the best. Less currant juice will do but a little is a great 
improvement. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Strawberries shrink more than any other fruit, consequently 
it takes more to fill a jar as they lose color when heated. I 
find dark colored berries the best. Have them fresh. Stem and 
measure and to 2 quarts of berries allow 1 quart of sugar and y* 
cup of water. Put sugar and water in kettle first, then berries. 
Let heat slowly and skim when it begins to boil. Cook about 
y 2 hour, until syrup seems rich. Dip in jars carefully, dividing 
fruit and juice equally. Seal. Strawberries prepared in this 
way can be used for Shortcake. 

TO CAN CORN. 

Cut corn from cob; put in a kettle and cover well with 
water. When it begins to boil, add 1 ounce tartaric acid well 
dissolved in a little hot water to every 6 quarts of corn. Stir 
well and let the corn boil 5 minutes. Seal in glass cans while hot. 
Do not use tin cans. When wanted for the table, pour off sour 
water and cover with fresh water, adding ' 2 teaspoon soda. Let 
stand 1-2 hour, then change water and put it on to 1 >< »i 1 1 hour at 



152 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



least. While boiling add 1 teaspoon sugar and season to taste. 
Be sure to follow this rule and you will enjoy your corn. 

NOTE OK PRESERVES. 

Preserves as made in former days have given way in a 
measure to canned fruits, as these can be made as rich as de- 
sired and arc more healthful than when cooked enough to keep 
without sealing. Jams are much nicer if cooked just right, and 
then scaled in pint cans. Jellies will keep in glass cups or bowls 
as they are made pinl for pint. Paste druggist's white paper 
over the top with white of egg or mucilage. Label each one. 
Keep in cool, dry place. When making jells or jams use white 
granulated sugar ami granite or porcelain kettle and do not 
cook more than I quad or '■> pints at a time. A small quantity 
will jell better. The quicker it is done, the lighter the color will 
he. Take out a spoonful in a dish after it lias hoiled the given 
lime, cool, and if it begins to jell, take it off. When cold, it will 
he thick enough. For jams, treat the same way as jells. When 
beginning to thicken remove. Seal hot or paste closely with 
paper. Too long conking makes any kind of fruit dark and 
strong. 1 find that rapid boiling (except where simmering is 
directed in recipe) on gas or gasoline stove, with (dose attention. 
gives the besl results. 

APRICOT PRESERVES. 

Do not peel hut wipe off and halve good ripe apricots. To 
! quarts of the halves lake '2 quarts of sugar and 1 pint of water. 
.Make a syrup of the sugar and water and when boiling drop the 
froth off as it rises. Seal while hot. When opened you will 
enjoy a fine flavored preserve. 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Wash, peel and cul in quarters or eighths i according to size 
of fruit i ami core. Save cores ami peelings for jell. Weigh the 
fruit and allow 1 pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Put 
fruil in kettle with water enough to cover. Put on lid and cook 
until they seem lender. Try with a fork. They take longer than 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 153 

apples. Then skim the fruit out in a dish and reserve half of the 
water in the kettle for jell. To the other half add your sugar 
and stir until dissolved. Then pour in the quinces and sinimer 
until the juice is rather thick. When partly cool dip in jars and 
1 taste closely with white paper. If quinces are of strong flavor 
1-3 sweet apples may be used instead of all quinces Prepare 
them the same as quinces but cook them separately. Put together 
when you put them in the syrup. Add the water the apples were 
cooked in to the other for jell. 

RED TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Tomatoes, 6 pounds, | Water, 2V 2 cups, 

Sugar, 5 pounds, j Lemons, 2, 

\Yhole Cloves, 1 tablespoon. 

Scald and peel solid, ripe, meaty tomatoes, the larger the 
better. Cut in about 3 pieces. After all are prepared, drain 
off the juice and weigh tomatoes. Make a syrup with the sugar 
and water, pour over tomatoes boiling hot and let stand until 
next morning. Drain off all the syrup and boil it \' 2 hour, then 
add tomatoes. Let cook until rich and thick. While boiling 
add lemons sliced thin with seeds removed, also add cloves. It 
should be a rich, red color when done. Will keep without sealing 
if pasted up tight. 

YELLOW PEAR TOMATO PRESERVES 

Tomatoes, 10 pounds, | Lemons, 3, 

Sugar, 10 pounds, | Raisins, 1 tea cup, 

Water, 1 quart, | White Ginger Root, 1 / 2 ounce. 

Wash and weigh the tomatoes but do not peel. Make a 
syriip of sugar and water and pour over tomatoes boiling hot 
and let stand until next morning. Drain off the syrup and 
boil about 20 minutes, then pour in the tomatoes. Simmer 2 or 
3 hours, or until the syrup is as thick as for ordinary preserves. 
While cooking, add the lemons sliced 1 1 1 in, (seeds removed), 
raisins and the ginger root which has been bruised with a hammer 
so the strength will be obtained. Let cool before placing in 
jar. Will keep without sealing. 



154 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Jells and Jams 



APPLE JELL. 



Use any kind of good, juicy, sour apples. Cut in quar- 
ters but do not peel or core. "Wash and cook rather soft in 
water to barely cover. Pour while hot in bag and drain without 
squeezing. Measure and allow. 1 pint of sugar to each pint of 
juice. Cook about 5 or 8 minutes. It will jell easily if juice 
is tart. If apples are of good flavor no seasoning is required, 
but if not, a thin slice of lemon placed in each glass of jell while 
hot makes it nice. 

CRAB APPLE JELL. 

Wash and cut in halves Transcendent or .small yellow Crab 
Apples or Red Hyslop Crabs. Either makes fine jell. Cover 
with water and cook until rather soft. Pour in bag and drain. 
To each pint of juice allow 1 pint of sugar and cook about 5 min- 
utes. This jells quicker than any other fruit and must be taken 
off as soon as it begins to jell or it will be too stiff. It will thicken 
in a few days even if it does not seem so when you put it away. 
a few days even if it does not seem so when you put it away. 
Dip in glasses while hot. Some apples make a clear, amber jell 
;iih1 others a faint pink tint. 

CURRANT JELL 

Crush red i or white) currants with the hands, (they need 
not be stemmed). When thoroughly mashed squeeze a few at a 
time through a jelly bag. The juice should be a rich red color 
;iikI quite thick. It jells better and is a lighter color thau when 
the fruit is cooked first. To each pint of juice take 1 pint of 
sugar and stir until sugar is dissolved, then let boil about 5 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 155 



minutes. Cool a little in a dish and if it begins to jell take it 
off as it will be thicker when cold. Dip in glasses while hot. Use 
currants before they get too ripe. 

GRAPE JELL. 

Stem and wash any kind of good flavored grapes. If a pink 
jell is desired use grapes about half ripe, if darker use full ripe 
ones. To 8 quarts of grapes add about 2 quarts of water and 
cook until hot through or just to the boiling point. Shake the 
kettle or press the fruit down with a spoon. If stirred, the pulp 
mixes with the juice and is not so clear. Pour in bag and drain 
without squeezing. To each pint of juice take 1 pint of sugar 
and cook about 10 or 15 minutes. It may take a little longer. 
Some grapes jell easier than others. 

GREEN GRAPE JELL. 

Stem green grapes and proceed the same as with ripe ones. 
This makes a light, clear and tart jelly and is nice to serve with 
chicken or meats. 

GOOSEBERRY JELL. 

Wash berries but do not stem them. Put in water enough 
to barely cover and cook until thoroughly hot so the juice will 
run out but do not stir. Pour in bag and hang up to drain 
about y 2 hour or more but do not squeeze. Then measure and 
to each pint of juice take 1 pint of sugar and cook about 10 or 15 
minutes. Cook about 3 pints or 2 quarts at a time. 

WILD GOOSEBERRY JELL. 

The wild berries have a much finer flavor than the tame ones. 
Use berries full grown and it will not matter if part of them 
are turning pink. If riper, the jell will be darker colored but 
good. Proceed the same as with the tame gooseberries. This 
makes a very delicate jell and a lovely light pink color. It is 
superior to any jell I have ever made. 



156 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



PLUM JELL. 

Pick over and wash red or yellow plums. Put on to cook 
with water to cover and cook without stirring uutil they crack 
opeD and seem soft enough for the juice to run out. Pour in bag 
and drain. Then allow 1 pint of sugar to each pint of juice 
and cook until it jells, which will take about 20 minutes. Cook 
'A pints or 2 quarts at a t ime. 



QUINCE JELL. 

Place quince peelings and cores (see preserves) in kettle 
with water to just cover. Put ou the lid aud cook uutil soft 
or until the juice tastes pretty strong of the quince. Pour in 
hag to drain while hot Then add this juice to the water you 
saved from the preserves and measure, allowing 1 pint of juice 
to 1 pint of sugar aud proceed same as other jell. Cook about 
10 or L5 minutes. The time depends something on the thickness 
of the juice. This is very nice and gets thicker by standing. If 
you use 1 pint of tart apple juice to about 2 quarts of quince juice 
it will jell quicker and is excellent. 



RED RASPBERRY JELL. 

To (I quarts of berries take 1 pint of water. Put in kettle 
and heat through so the juice can be squeezed through jelly bag. 
To each pint of juice allow 1 pint of granulated sugar and - 
tablespoons of currant juice. I it jells better and has a nicer 
flavor by adding the currant juice i. Stir the sugar in the juice 
until dissolved, then boil about 10 minutes, skimming off the 
scum as it rises. 



BLACK RASPBERRY JELL. 

To 1 quarts of berries take 1 pint of water. Hear thoroughly 
and squeeze out the juice. To 2 pints of raspberry juice add 1 
pint of currant juice. To each pint of this mixture add 1 pint 
of sugar. Proceed same as other jell cooking about 15 minutes. 
This makes a dark jell hut very good and not expensive. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 157 



BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Two quarts of berries, 1 quart of sugar aud 1-2 of water. 
Heat together slowly at first until sugar is melted. Stir with a 
wooden spoon occasionally. Boil rather fast and skim. Cook 
until thick, about 15 or 20 minutes. If you use gas or gasoline 
stove care should be taken or it will burn. It is best to place a 
lid under kettle. Dip in cups or glasses. Blackberries are best 
used alone without adding other fruit or juice. 



CURRANT JAM. 

Stem fresh red or white currants, then squeeze the juice 
from some unstemmed ones. Take 1 quart of stemmed currants 
and 1 quart of juice. Stir the currants and juice together in a 
dish and measure out in your kettle. To each pint of this 
mixture take 1 pint of sugar. . Stir until sugar is dissolved, then 
boil about 10 or 15 minutes. Sometimes it will thicken quicker. 
Skim while cooking. Dip out while hot in glasses or bowls. 
Do not cook more than 2 quarts at a time. 



GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Pick over green berries, wash and measure. To each quart 
of berries take 1 quart of sugar and 1-2 pint of water. Make a 
syrup of the water and sugar and when hot pour in fruit. Cook 
until rather thick, about 1-2 hour. It will jell and be quite clear. 
Dip in glasses while hot. 



PLUM JAM. 

Use any kind of plums that have a thin skin. Put 4 quarts 
of plums in a kettle with water to just cover. Cook until they 
crack open and are quite soft then add 4 quarts of sugar. Stir 
gently to dissolve the sugar and cook until rather thick. Paste 
up like jell. This is very nice and a pretty color if made of the 
thick meated red plums or Minor plums. 



158 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



PEACH JAM. 

When putting up peaches it is better to have a good many, 
then take the most perfect ones for preserves or pickles and the 
very ripe, specked ones for jam. Peel and cut in small pieces. 
To 3 quarts of the fruit prepared in this way, add 2 quarts of 
sugar. Put sugar on peaches, cover and let stand over night as 
this will draw out the juice and not require any water. Then 
cook until rich and thick, stirring often to prevent burning. 
Skim while conking. Crack part of the peach pits and blanche 
the kernels the same as almonds. Use about 1 tablespoon of 
kernels to this quantity of fruit. This gives a nice flavor and is 
better put in jars while hot and seal air tight. 

RED RASPBERRY JAM. 

Two quarts of berries, 2 quarts of sugar and 1 pint of 
currant juice, (no water is necessary). Put sugar and juice 
in kettle and stir until sugar is dissolved. Then add berries 
and heat slowly at first, then boil and skim. It will take about 
15 or 20 minutes. It should be thick like jell and a bright red 
color. Dip out while hot in glass or cups. Extra nice. 

BLACK RASPBERRY JAM. 

Three quarts of berries, 3 quarts of sugar and 1 pint of 
currant juice or 1 quart o£ stemmed currants. Stir all together 
and heat slowly at first, then cook faster until rather thick. This 
is easily made and not expensive. Put away same as jell. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Strawberries, 1 heaping pint; sugar, 1 scant pint. Crush 
sugar and berries together, stir thoroughly, then set on to cook. 
Boil rapidly, stirring often and cook 15 or 20 minutes after it 
begins to boil, or until it drops rather thick from the spoon. 
When half done, skim off the froth that is on top. Use small 
granite kettles or pans on gas or gasoline stove, attending to 2 
or 3 at a time as it is much nicer to cook a small quantity at a 
time, 1 pint or 1 quart. Have pint jars ready. When done, dip 
in and seal. If berries are good this will be extra nice. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 159 



5piced Fruit and Pickles 



SPICED CURRANTS 



Stem enough fresh, (red or white), ripe currants to make 
2 quarts, then add 2 quarts of currant juice, (the juice can be 
squeezed out the same as for jelly without stemming the cur- 
rants). To each pint of this mixture add 1 pint of granulated 
sugar. Set on stove, stir until the sugar is dissolved and cook 
about 10 minutes or until it jells pretty thick. Cook fast but 
watch it or it will boil over. Cool a little in a dish and if it 
begins to jell it is cooked enough. When done remove from the 
stove and while hot stir in 2 heaping teaspoons of freshly ground 
cinnamon. Dip in cups or glasses and paste white paper over, 
the same as jell. When used tip out on jell dish and serve with 
any kind of fowl or roast. It is delicious. 



SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Pick the stems and blossoms from green but full grown 
gooseberries. For each pint of berries allow 1 pint of granulated 
sugar and 1-2 pint of water. Make a syrup by dissolving the 
sugar in the water on the stove in a granite kettle. When hot, 
pour in the berries and cook until thick like jam. Try the 
same as currants. (They take longer to cook than currants.) 
Remove from stove and while hot stir in 1 heaping teaspoon of 
ground cinnamon. Dip out and paste up the same as currants. 
Serve with cold meats, game or roasts. 



160 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



SPICED PLUMS. 

Four quarts of red plums cooked rather soft or until they 
crack open. When cool, take out the pits, return to the kettle and 
add the following: 

C Sugar, 4 quarts, Ground Cinnamon, 1 ounce, 

Vinegar. y 2 pint. | Ground Cloves, 1 ounce. 

Cook until pretty thick and paste up like jelly. Serve with 
cold meats. 



BRANDIED PEACHES. 

Steam peaches. Make a syrup of y 2 pound sugar and y 2 tea 
cup of water for each pound of peaches. While cooking, skim 
and then drop in the peaches and cook until tender. Take them 
out carefully and till jars while hot. Remove syrup from fire 
and add to it ^ pint best brandy to every pound of peaches. 
Pour over peaches in cans and seal hot. 

NOTE OX PICKLES. 

Always use porcelain or granite kettles for heating vinegar 
for making pickles of any kind. Use good eider or white wine 
vinegar, as any acid vinegar will eat them and render them soft. 
Do not green them in copper or brass kettles. It is very poison- 
ous. If directions are followed, they will be green. Most pickles 
are better sealed in i ■» gallon glass jars if to keep long. If not 
sealed, they should b closely covered or pasted with letter paper 
and white of egg. or mucilage the same as jelly. Always use 
whole spices unless recipe calls for ground. When sugar is 
called for, u>e brown or <" sugar. A little horseradish and sugar 
keeps vinegar from spoiling in any kind of pickles. 

PICKLED APPLl.s. 

Pare and quarter Tolman Sweet Apples. Steam and pro- 
ceed the same as with peaches, excepl the (loves for the apples 
are put in the syrup with the other spices. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 161 



PICKLED CRAB APPLES. 

Tnk perfect Transcendent Crab Apples. Do not peel or re- 
move the stem but wash and steam rather tender. Proceed the 
same as with peaches, except the cloves for the crab apples are 
put in the syrup with the other spices. Use fruit not too ripe. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

Cauliflower, 2 heads, Yellow Ground Mustard, 1 tea- 

Salt, 1 pint, cup, 

Sugar, 1 tea cup, | Vinegar, 2 quarts. 

Use large, white heads of cauliflower. Place them in a jar, 
sprinkle over them the salt and add enough cold water to cover. 
Lei stand over night, then wash and break off any outside leaves 
but do not break apart. Place in a steamer or steam cooker and 
steam about 15 minutes or until it seems a little tender; try with 
a fork and be careful not to let it get too soft. Let cool, then 
separate the pieces where the divisions are and place them in 
glass jars. Put the vinegar in a granite kettle and when boiling, 
add the sugar, then the mustard which has been previously wet 
smooth with cold vinegar and stir until it thickens. If it seems 
at all lumpy strain through a wire sieve. While hot, dip enough 
of this mixture over the cauliflower to cover, then seal. 

SPICED CAULIFLOWER. 

Cauliflower, 2 heads, | Stick Cinnamon, 1 tablespoon, 
Red Cayenne Pepper Pods, 2 j Allspice, 1 tablespoon, 
Vinegar, 2 quarts, | White Mustard Seed, 1 table- 
Sugar, 1 pint, | 'uoods 
Cloves, 1 tablespoon, | Celery Seed, 1 tablespoon. 

Prepare the cauliflower the same as for Pickled Cauliflower. 
Place in jar with pepper pods, allowing 2 pods to each quart 
jar, or use small pieces of red bell pepper. Boil the vinegar, 
sugar and spices together 30 minutes, then while hot dip it over 
the cauliflower enough to cover, and seal. This makes a delicious 
pickle. If this quantity of vinegar does not cover the cauliflower 
you wish to spice you will have to prepare more. 



162 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



CELERY PICKLE. 

Green Tomato, y 2 peck, Sugar, 1 cup, 

Cabbage, 1 small head, j Salt, l / 2 cup, 

' 'elery, 1 bunch, j Celery Heed, 1 ounce, 

Vinegar, j Mustard Seed, 1 ounce. 

Chop tomatoes fine, stir through them the sail and let stand 
over night. Squeeze out dry and put in kettle, then add the cab- 
bage and celery, (both of which have been chopped fine), celery 
seed, mustard seed, sugar and enough cider vinegar to cover. Let 
come to a boil stirring thoroughly. Seal air tight while hot. 
Very nice. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

To 1(10 small cucumbers, add 1 pint fine salt dissolved in 
boiling water and pour on them hot. There should l>e enough of 
this brine to cover the pickles. Let stand 24 hours, turn off and 

rinse pickles. Then dissolve in boiling water a piece of alum 
the size of an egg, pour on the pickles hot and let stand 6 bonis. 
Pour off and rinse pickles, then scald enough of the best ^■\^\^>v 
vinegar to cover them. Spice with i •_, ounce each of cloves, cin- 
namon and white mustard seed and 1 cup sugar. Put this on the 
pickles boiling hot and von will have brittle pickles. 

SOUR CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

I have found it convenient to make pickles by the following 
method as it seems easier in the fall when the weather is cool or 
even later when all other pickling and preserving is out of the 
way. Take small green cucumbers, wash and place in a large jar 
or t nl> quite a thick layer of them, t hen a layer of coarse salt, then 
cucumbers and so on until all are used. Tie up or cover with a 
lid. No water is necessary. More cucumbers can be added at 
any time. They will shrivel but they keep their green color. 
, \Yhen ready to fix them take all or part of them, put in large 
pan, cover with cold water and set on the stove. As the water 
heats it will draw out the salt and the pickles will swell out to 
their natural size. When real hot pour off this water, put on 
fresh and repent 3 or 1 t hues, then s et by and let stand until fresh 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 163 



enough to be palatable — 1 or 2 days — then take out on a cloth to 
drain. Place in 2 quart fruit jars with 2 or 3 small red peppers 
and 3 or 4 pieces of horseradish to each jar. Pour in a kettle as 
much good cider vinegar as you think will cover the quantity you 
have and add 1 cup of brown sugar to each 2 quarts of vinegar. 
When boiling hot pour over pickles and sea 1 while hot. They 
will be green and brittle and keep well. 

SPICED CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Fill your jars with pickles after they have been freshened 
as for the sour pickle. Make a spiced vinegar of the following: 

Vinegar, 2 quarts, | Allspice, 1 tablespoon, 

Brown Sugar, 2 cups, j Pepper, 1 tablespoon, 

Cloves, 1 tablespoon, Celery Seed, 1 tablespoon, 

Cinnamon. 1 tablespoon, j Mustard Seed, 1 tablespoon. 

Mace, 1 tablespoon. < 

Boil all together 10 or 15 minutes. Dip over the pickles hot 
dividing the spices in each jar. Seal at once. If preferred to 
make pickles in Summer when first gathered place in a jar 1 cup 
of coarse salt and pour on this 1 gallon of boiling water. While 
still hot put in the cucumbers and let stand over night. Then 
take out and rinse off brine and lay mi cloth to drain while you 
are preparing the vinegar. If both sour and spiced pickles are 
wanted, fill jars and prepare the vinegar and proceed the same 
as in the above recipe. 

DILL PICKLES. 

Take medium size cucumbers, wash them and let them lay in 
cold water about 2 hours. Put a layer of grape leaves and a little 
dill in the bottom of a large stone jar, then a layer of cucumbers 
and sprinkle over this a very few cloves, allspice, thin slices of 
red pepper and some dill, then another layer of cucumbers, 
spices, peppers and dill and so on until the jar is full. Put a 
layer of dill on top. Make a brine of cold water and salt strong 
enough to flqat an oiX'^, then add cold water until the egg slowly 
sinks to the bottom, then add 1 tea cup of vinegar and pour over 
the pickles. Cover with a cloth, pu1 a plate on top and a weight 



164 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



to keep them under the brine. They must be kept in a warm place 
for a week, then you can remove them to the cellar. Will be 
ready for use in about 10 days after making. Once a week the 
cloth must be washed in cold water and all scum carefully re- 
moved. 



HODGE PODGE PICKLE. 



Sliced Cucumbers, 1 gallon, 
Shredded Cabbage, 1 gallon, 
Medium Sized Onions, 4, 
Green Bell Peppers, 2, 
Salt, 2 tablespoons, (a little 
heaping), 



White Sugar, 2 coffee cups, 
Yellow Mustard, 1 coffee cup, 
Black Mustard Seed, 1 ounce 
White Mustard Seed, 1 ounce, 
Celeiw Seed, 1 ounce, 
Vinegar. 



Take cucumbers about half as large as for ordinary slicing. 
Slice medium thin without peeling. Put in granite pan with 
shredded cabbage and stir in the salt. Peel onions and slice. Re- 
move seeds from peppers and slice crosswise. Add this all to- 
gether with sugar. Pour in enough good cider vinegar to wet 
thoroughly. Set on stove and when hot stir in mustard prev- 
iously wet smooth in cold vinegar. Add the seeds. Stir all to- 
gether thoroughly and let come to a boil. More sugar can be 
added if you wish it sweeter. While hot seal air tight in glass 
fruit jars. This makes a delicious pickle. 



PEPPER MANGOES. 

Take large, green, Bell Peppers, cut the top off round leav- 
ing on the stem, this forms a lid. Scrape out the seeds, lay in salt 
water over night using 1 cup of salt to a pail of water. Then tip 
out on a tray or board upside down to drain. For the filling, 
chop very fine, fresh cabbage and to each gallon measured after 
it is chopped add the following: 



Sugar, 1 tea cup, | White Mustard 

Red Bell Pepper, chopped | tablespoon, 

rather fine, 1, | Black Mustard 

Salt, 1 level tablespoon, tablespoon, 

Celery Seed, 1 level tablespoon. 



Seed, 1 level 
Seed, 1 level 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 165 



Mix altogether and let stand about an hour. Then with 
your hands squeeze out as dry as possible. Stuff the pepper full 
pressing in all it will hold, then place on a lid that will fit or 
nearly so and stick wooden tooth picks down through the lid into 
the mango, (this is quicker done than tying or sewing), using 3 
tooth picks to each mango. Place in a 2 or 3 gallon stone jar, 
fit in as closely as possible but do not fill jar too full, leaving 
room for plate, an'd weight. Lay several roots of horse radish on 
top and add % cup sugar to each jar as this keeps the vinegar 
from spoiling. Turn a plate over the mangoes and pour on good 
cider vinegar to cover. They must be kept under the vinegar 
and if the plate is not heavy enough put on a small weight. Tie 
down closely with thick paper and set in a cool place. Will keep 
a year. When wanted for use remove the picks and lid and place 
mangoes in a pickle dish. 

GREEN MUSKMELON MANGOES. 

Wash melons, pare thin as possible, cut out 1 or 2 sections 
and remove the seeds. Put melons in salt water over night, using 
1 tea cup of salt to 2 gallons of water. Then take 1 quart of 
vinegar and 2 quarts of water and cook melons in this until you 
can just run a fork in nicely, take out and drain putting more in 
to rook. For the filling, chop very fine fresh cabbage and to each 
gal lor. measured after it is chopped add the following: 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Salt, 1 level tablespoon, 

Whole Cloves, 1 level tablespoon. 

As you stuff each melon with this filling lay in 4 very small 
cucumber pickles, 4 green radish pods and 4 green nasturtium 
seeds. Put the sections in place and tie with wrapping twine. 
Place in stone jar and pour over them the following boiling hot : 

Vinegar, 1 gallon, | Whole Cloves, 2 tablespoons, 

Whole Cinnamon, 2 table- j White Ginger Root, 1 table- 
spoons, spoon, 
Sugar, 5 pounds. 

Boil all together 20 minutes. Let melons stand 2 days, drain 
off liquor and boil. If not strong enough add more vinegar. Pour 



166 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



over mangoes hot. Put on a plate and tie up the same as pepper 
mangoes. When served cut mangoes in halves and put in pickle 

dish. 

MU'SKM EL< >N SWEET PICK LE. 

Cut the melon in I he gores lengthwise. Peel, scrape out the 
inside, lay in a stone jar, cover with good cider vinegar and let 
stand until the next day. Then drain off the vinegar and meas- 
ure. Make a sjTup of the following proportion : 

Vinegar, 1 quart, Whole Cloves, 1 tablespoon, 

Brown Sugar, 3 pounds, Slick Cinnamon, 1 tablespoon. 

Mace, 1 tablespoon. 

Drop half of the melon in this syrup and cook slowly until 
clear, then remove the pieces with a silver fork to a platter, then 
cook the rest of the melon. When all is done, place in glass or 
stone jars, cook the syrup a little longer, (not too thick) strain 
and pour over the melon. Put a few pieces of each kind of spice 
in each jar and throw away (he rest, as too many spices will make 
the melon dark. If the syrup cooks away so there is not enough 
t<» cook all of the melon, add more sugar and vinegar. There 
should be enough syrup to cover the melon in the jars. Use 
melons about half ripe or they will mash. Can be made after 
the melon season is over. They are very nice and will keep a 
long time. They need not be air tight. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Small White French Onions, | Salt, 1/2 CU P, 

Water, 2 quarts, White Sugar, L /2 ( ' U P> 

While Wine Vine-vr, 1 fjiiart,| Mace, L» blades. 

Red Cayenne Pepper Tods, 3,| Cloves,! teaspoon. 

Peel onions and throw them in cold water. When all are 
ready, wash them out of this water and put them in a kettle 
with the 2 quarts of water and the salt, and scald the onions in 
this about 10 minutes or until they are a little tender; be \ory 
careful not to have them soft, as the success of the pickle de- 
pends on this part of the formula. Skim out to drain in a sieve. 
More onions can be cooked in the same water. Place onions 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 167 

in glass jars with pepper pods, or small pieces of red bell pepper 
can be used if you cannot get the pods. Boil together a few min- 
utes the vinegar, sugar, mace and cloves, then while 
hot pour it over the onions enough to cover, and seal. If this 
quantity is not enough to cover the onions you wish to pickle, 
you will have to prepare more. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Pare good peaches without specks and not too ripe. Stick 
2 cloves iii each and lay in a steamer, filling it y 2 or 2-3 full. 
Steam about 10 minutes or until a little tender (try with fork 
or broom straw). If hard or green ones are used it will take 
longer. Lift your steamer off in a pan on the table. Have your 
jars (1 or 2 quart fruit jars) previously ready. With a spoon 
carefully lift the peaches into tin 1 jars. Do not fill too full or 
they will mash. Then fill each jar with tin 1 following hot syrup 
and seal air tight : 

Vinegar, 1 quart, | Stick Cinnamon, broken up, 

Sugar, 2 quarts, 1 tablespoon, 

('assia I>uds, 1 tablespoon. 

It is best to prepare tin- syrup while peeling the peaches. 
Let it boil t 2 hour or more, until it is like thin syrup. 2 quarl 
jars are nice to use as they will keep opened in winter until 
used. The syrup should cover the fruit. This quantity will be 
sufficient for 4 quarts of fruit. If not enough for what fruit is 
ready cover jars with a (doth to keep warm while you make more. 
If any is left put it by for another time and reheat it before us- 
ing. The better the flavor of the peaches the nicer they will he. 
To some housekeepers this formula may seem more work than 
the old way of boiling the syrup and pouring it over the fruit, 
l-ut it is far superior and well pays for the trouble. 

PICKLED PEARS. 

Peel, halve or quarter pears, according to size. Steam 

until tender and proceed the same as with peaches, except the 
cloves for the pears are put in the syrup with the other spices. 
Different spices may be used according to taste. 



168 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



PICCALILLI. 

Chop separately and rather fine, green tomatoes and good 
solid cabbage. Take about equal measures of each. To 1 gallon 
of this mixture take 1 heaping tablespoon of salt. Stir all 
through and let stand over night. Then pour in a colander or 
• loth to drain, squeezing out all of the water. Put in granite 
or porcelain kettle and pour on enough good cider vinegar to 
wet it thoroughly. 

To each gallon of this add the following: 

Brown Sugar, 1 coffee cup, | Celery Seed, 1 tablespoon, 
White Mustard Seed, 1 table-' Black Mustard Seed, 1 table- 
spoon, spoon, 
Large Red Bell Peppers, 2. 

Remove the seeds from peppers and chop rather tine. Heat 
all together thoroughly hot, stirring occasionally. Seal part of 
this air tight to use later, and the remainder tie up closely in a 
stone jar for present use. 

RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

Ripe Tomatoes, | Cinnamon, 2 ounces, 

Water, 1 gallon. Cloves, 2 ounces. 

Coarse Salt, 1 pint, | Allspice, 2 ounces, 

Brown Sugar, 1 pint, ; Black Pepper, 2 ounces. 

Horse Radish, several pieces, | Red Bell Peppers, 2. 

Cider Vinegar. 

Select smooth, solid, ripe tomatoes and lay them in the 
gallon of water with the salt for 2 or 3 days. Take out and 
drain, then pack closely in a stone jar, putting in the spices, 
peppers and sugar in layers as you fill the jar. Put horseradish 
on top and pour in cold vinegar enough to cover. Then put on 
a thick layer of grape leaves and turn on a plate to keep them 
under the vinegar. Paste up like jell, then tie a thick brown 
paper over it and keep in a cool place. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 
Wash and slice about 1 - inch thick, j - bushel of large green 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 169 



tomatoes. Put in a large pan or kettle and pour on enough 
water to cover. Add 1 teacup of salt and let them get hot and 
scald thoroughly, as this takes out the green poison and softens 
them. Skim out on a cloth stretched over a pan or tub and let 
drain for several hours over night. Then with your hand place 
in stone jars first a layer of tomatoes, then some whole spices, 
using cinnamon, cloves, allspice and pepper, about 1 ounce of 
each spice to each gallon of tomatoes. Finish on top with a little 
ground cinnamon. Then take 2 quarts of good cider vinegar and 
5 pounds of brown sugar, boil together y 2 hour and pour boiling 
hot over the tomatoes. Turn a plate over to keep them under 
the syrup, tie up closely and they will be ready for use in a week. 
Tomatoes shrink so much after scalding in the salt water that it 
takes a good many to make a gallon. Think y 2 bushel will make 
nearly 2 gallons. These will keep any length of time. 



WATER MELON SWEET PICKLE. 

Cut in pieces about 4 inches long and 2 inches wide, the 
solid part of the melon. Cook in slightly salted water until 
just tender enough to pierce with a broom straw. Skim out in 
colander or sieve to drain, then place in a stone jar. Make a 
syrup of the following : 

Vinegar, 1 quart, | Whole Cloves, 1 tablespoon, 

Sugar, 3 pounds, | Stick Cinnamon, 1 tablespoon, 

Mace, 4 blades. 

Boil this all together a few minhtes, then pour over the melon 
and let stand over night. Then pour off the syrup and let it 
come to a boil, add half of the melon and cook until clear. With 
;> silver fork lift the pieces out on a platter and put the rest of 
the melon in the syrup. If there is not enough syrup to cook 
this more vinegar and sugar will have to be added. Place the 
pieces in your jars and pour the syrup over this. There should 
be enough syrup to cover the melon. They need not be air 
tiuht. 



170 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



CHILI SAUCE. 



Salt, 2 heaping teaspoons, 
Ground Cloves, 1 heaping tea- 
spoon. 
Curry Powder, 2 heaping tea- 
spoons. 
Clinker, 2 heaping teaspoons. 



Large Ripe Tomatoes, IS 
Green Bell Peppeps,6, 

Onions, 2, 

Vinegar, I cups, 

Sugar, 4 heaping tablespoons 

[f tomatoes are nol large allow 2 for 1. Scald peel and chop 
fine. Remove seeds from peppers and chop fine with peeled 
onions, (lien add these to i lit' tomatoes with the sugar, vinegar 
and salt. Cook iiniil aboul as thick as catsup. Stir often to 
prevent burning. Remove from stove and while hot add ginger, 
cloves and curry powder. Different spices can be used if pre- 
ferred. Bottle while hot and seal air tight. 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

Tomato Pulp, l gallon, While Mustard Seed, 1 table- 
Sugar,] pint, spoon. 
Vinegar,] quart, I Celery Seed, 1 tablespoon, 
White Pepper, 1 teaspoon, | Cinnamon, 1 " 
Black Pepper, I teaspoon, " | Cloves, 1 
Black Mustard Seed, 1 table- Allspice, 1 " 
spoon. Mace, 1 " 
Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Wash the tomatoes and cut them up without peeling, rook 
in granite kettle or pan until quite soft and quite thick; stir 
often; do nol lei them burn ; when cool run through fi-nit si rainer 
or wire seive; return to the kettle, add all the seasoning and 
cook until quite thick, i Test it by cooling a little in a dish). 
Strain again; bottle and seal or pill in fruil jars while hot. 

Do not cook more than 1 gallon in 1 kettle. II' yon have 
more divide in 2 kettles. It is long cooking that makes it dark. 
It should be a good red color when done. Use all spices whole 
and tie Loosely in 2 or more cheese cloth bags. Use very ripe 
tomatoes. Stir frequently while cooking. II' cooked on gas or 
gasoline stove, place lid under kettle to prevent scorching. I 
have tried various ways and many different recipes and have 

settled OU this one. Can recommend it as excellent. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



171 



('OLD CATSrP. 



Ripe Tomatoes, i peeled and 

chopped fine), y 2 peck, 
Horse Radish, (grated), 1 cup, 
Salt, | 2 cup, 
Mustard Seed, 1 cup, 
Nasturtium Seed, (chopped), 1 

cup, 
Onions, (chopped l , 1 cup, 



Brown Sugar, 1 cup, 
Vinegar, 1 quart, 
Celery, (chopped), 3 stalks, 
Black Pepper, 1 tablespoon, 
( Mnnanioii, 1 tablespoon, 
Red Bell Peppers, 2 table- 
spoons, 
( /loves, 1 teaspoon. 



Mix all well together and bottle and seal without cooking. 



172 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Miscellaneous Recipes 



TO BLANCH ALMONDS OR PEANUTS. 

Shell, then pour on enough hot water to cover them and 
let them stand a few minutes until the skin will slip off easily. 
Pour off the water and slip off the skins with your fingers. 



SALTED ALMONDS. 

Shelled Almonds, 1 pint, | Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon, 

Salt, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Blanch the almonds, (see recipe). Put the butter in a tin 
pan and set on stove to melt, but do not brown. Put in the 
almonds and stir the butter through them, then set in mod- 
erate oven to brown. Stir occasionally until they are a nice 
light brown, then remove from the oven and sprinkle over them 
the salt, stirring it through thoroughly. Turn out on white or 
yellow paper which will absorb the grease. 

SALTED PEANUTS. 

Buy raw peanuts and set in the oven a few minutes, (per- 
haps 5 minutes, according to the heat of the oven), as this will 
make them shell easier. Shell, then blanch and salt them the 
same as almonds. 

BUTTERED CROUTONS. 

Spread thinly with butter, stale slices of bread. Cut in small 
squares, place in pan butter side up and brown in a quick oven. 
Serve with soup. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 173 



BREAD CRUMBS. 

These can be prepared at any time and kept on hand in 
a tin box. Place pieces of dry bread (the harder the better), 
in a pan in the oven until light brown. Place on thick paper 
and powder with rolling pin until very fine. They are better 
put through a course sieve, saving finer part for oysters and 
croquettes, and the rest for other things. Throw away all pieces 
which will not roll fine. 

BREAD STICKS. 

Take pieces of bread when it is light enough to put in the 
pan to bake. Roll into strips about the size of your finger. Put 
them in a grooved pan made for the purpose, let them raise a 
little and bake; as soon as they are done, turn them out of the 
pan and rub them all over with melted butter. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Flour, 3 tablespoons, | Milk, 1 tablespoon, 

Cheese, 3 " grated, | Salt, y 2 saltspoon, 

Butter, 1 tablespoon, | Cayenne, y± saltspoon, 

Yolk of Egg, 1. 

Mix dry ingredients, and add milk, yolk of egg and butter. 
Mix all well with a spoon and when smooth divide in 2 parts. 
Bake in a slow oven 15 minutes. May be served hot or cold, 
piled on plate log cabin style. 

CHEESE CRACKERS. 

Place a quantity of buttered Saratoga Flakes in baking pan 
with 1 heaping teaspoon of grated cheese on each one. Dash 
a pinch of cayenne pepper over them and bake 5 minutes in 
hot oven, a little brown. Serve with salads. 

DRAWN BUTTER. 

One-half cup butter and 2 tablespoons flour creamed. Pour 
on 1/2 pi n t boiling water. Let cook about 10 minutes. If too 
thick, add a little more water. 



174 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



TO KEEP EGGS FOR WINTER USE. 

I have tried various methods and many recipes for 30 years 
or more and I pin my faith to the following: If the eggs are 
fresh when put in they will conic out so. I have made Angel 
Food and other cakes in March, with eggs put up in this way 
in the previous September. Take unslacked lime and break up 
in small pieces so you can measure it in a coffee cup. To 1 cup of 
lime take 1 cup of coarse barrel salt and 1 gallon of boiling- 
water; a keg, stone jar or lard firkin is good for the purpose. 
.Measure in the Mine and sal!, and pour on the boiling water; let 
stand until cold, then with your hand let the eggs carefully down 
in the liquid. 4 or 5 gallons will cover a good many eggs. They 
can be put in at any time as you gather them, only so the liquid 
covers them. A light board is good to keep them under the 
brine. 

BROWNED FLOUR. 

Place 1 or l' quarts of wheal Hour in a dripping pan, set it in 
;■ moderate oven, and let heat through, stirring it several times. 
Watch carefully until it is a nice brown, do not burn it and 
do not add anything to it. When cool put in a tin or glass can. 
It is nice for gravies as they are more quickly made, are a better 
color, and do not have a raw taste as when made with flour the 
usual way. For fried or fricasseed chicken the white flour is 
best. 

TO PREPARE PAT FOR FRYING < >YSTERS, DOUGHNUTS, 
FRITTERS, CROQUETTES, ETC. 

Cut up in rather small pieces 5 pounds of beef suet, and 
put in kcitlc with 1 pint water. Cook y_> hour, remove cover 
and try out slowly until it looks clear, just as you would lard. 
Strain through a tine cloth. Add to this twice as much (Sinclair's 
Fidelity) lard so as to have 1-3 suet and 2-3 (Sinclair's Fidelity i 
lard. Place on the stove, and when hot add 1 large unpeeled 
apple and 1 potato sliced, also 1 tablespoon salt. Fry until 
brown and skim out pieces. This gives it a nice flavor. Anything 
fried in this does not have that greasy taste as when lard is used 
without suet. If (Sinclair's Fidelity) lard is used for frying 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 175 



without suet, prepare same way with potato and apple and a 
little salt. This will do for several times if kept in a jar or kettle 
or is good to use for anything thai requires fat for frying. 

TO PREPARE DRIPPINGS. 

Save fats and trimmings from meats of all kinds, skimmings 
from soups, etc. When you have sufficient quantity place in 
kettle with about 1 pint of water to 1 quart of the above. Cook 
until water stews out, then fry until fat looks clear. Strain. 

ONION JUICE. 
To prepare onion juice, peel cut onions crosswise and grate. 

CIDER VINEGAR. 

To test cider vinegar, add soda, aud if pure it will change 
color. 



176 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Candies 



FRENCH CREAM CANDY. 

'Pake 2 glasses the same size. Put the whites of 2 eggs in oue 
-lass and the same quantity of water in the other glass, then 
pour both into a dish and with a silver fork stir in Confectioner's 
Sugar until it is still' enough to mould with your fingers. Flavor 
to suit the taste. Vanilla is nice for all or you can use different 
flavors. This forms a foundation or Candy Dough for a number 
of different kinds of candies. Buy the oiled paper or use but- 
tered pa pei- I" lay your candy on to dry. 

ALMOND CREAMS. 

Take a small lump of the Candy Dough and put an Almond 
Kernel in the center, then mould it into the desired shape by 
rolling it between your hands into a ball or oblong shape. 

COCOANUT CREAMS. 

Roll a small lump of the Candy Dough into a ball, then 
roll it in prepared or fresh grated Cocoanut. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Form a hall of the Candy Dough, then with the fingers 
pinch it into the shape of the boughten chocolates and put 
on oiled or buttered paper to dry (perhaps over night) as they 
will melt when dipped into the chocolate if not dry enough. 
Crate Baker's Chocolate, put in a bowl and set in the top of 
a ha kettle of boiling water or set bowl in a pan of hotwater, 
but do not let the water get into the chocolate. Dip your creams 
into the melted chocolate, using a couple of silver forks, then 
lay on oiled or buttered paper to dry. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 177 



CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. 

Make the Same as Almond Creams, then dip into the melted 
( Chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE WALNUTS. 

Roll a small piece of the Candy Dough into a ball, then with 
the hand flatten it on the top and dry 1 1 1 ** same as Chocolate 
Creams. Dip into the melted Chocolate, lay on buttered or oiled 
paper, then place a Walnut Kernel on the top. 

DATE CREAMS. 

Remove the stones from Dates, then till the Dates with 
the Tandy Dough and press gently with the fingers which will 
give them a good shape. 

PIG CREAMS. 

('nt Fii^s in quarters, open each piece with a knife and till 
with Candy Dough the same as Date Creams. 

NUT CREAMS. 

Chop rather fine any kind of nnts yon wish, stir them in 
the Candy Dough, then form into halls. If prefererd yon tan 
then roll them in fresh or prepared Grated Cocoanul or dip them 
in Chocolate. 

WALNUT CREAMS. 

Roll a small piece of the Candy Dough into a hall, then 
place a Walnut Kernel on the top, pressing it a little which will 
flatten it ami give if the desired round shape. 

COLORED CREAMS. 

If desired the Candy Dough can he colored with Fruil 
Coloring. The Yolk of Egg may he used to color yellow bul yon 
will probably have to use more sugar to make it stiff enough. 



178 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



BUTTER SCOTCH. 

New Orleans .Molasses, 1 cup, | Granulated or Brown Sugar, 
Butter, i o cup, 1 cup. 

Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. 

Cook mfolasses, sugar and vinegar together, and when nearly 

done add the. butter. Boil until it snaps when put in cold water. 

s Pour into buttered tins, and when cool enough make into squares. 

Il is nice lo add any kind of nut meats just before you pour it 

into the tins. 



COCOANUT CANDY. 

Fine White Sugar, i' 1 - cups, j Desiccated Cocoanut, 1 cup, 
Water, 1 cup, Vinegar, 1 teaspoons, 

Butter, size of an egg. 

Boil the sugar, water, vinegar and butter together until 
thick, about 3-4 of an hour. Just before removing stir in the 
cocoanut, then lay in small flat cakes on buttered plates to cool 
and harden. 



CREAM COCOANUT CANDY. 

Sugar, 1 1-2 pounds, j Milk, 1-2 cup, 

Fresh Cocoanut, 1. 

Boil the sugar and milk together 10 minutes, then add the 
grated cocoanut and boil until thick. Put on greased plates quite 
thick, and when partially cold cut in strips. 



COCOANUT DKOPS. 

Grated Fresh Cocoanut, 1| Powdered Sugar, y 2 C1 *P> 

cup, White of Egg, 1. 

Work all together, roll, and cut with small round cutter 
and I take on buttered tins. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 179 



CREAM CANDY. 

White Sugar, 2 cups, | Vinegar, 4 tablespoons, 

Water, y 2 cup, j Butter, 1 teaspoon. 

Vanilla, ^4 teaspoon. 

Boil sugar, water, vinegar and butter together 20 minutes, 
but do not stir it. When removed from the stove add vanilla. 
Put on buttered plates until cool enough to pull. 

CREAM FUDGES. 

Granulated Sugar, 2 cups, | Butter, size of a walnut, 

Cream, 1 cup, j Vanilla, to suit the taste. 

Cook the sugar, cream and butter together, stirring con- 
stantly until it becomes thick, but not hard when put in water. 
Remove from fire, add the vanilla, and stir until the mass begins 
to set. Pour on buttered plates about y 2 inch thick, and when 
nearly cold mark in squares. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGES. 

Granulated Sugar, 2 cups, | Baker's Chocolate, 2 squares, 

Cream, 1 cup, | Butter, size of a walnut. 

Cook all the ingredients together, stirring constantly un- 
til it becomes thick, but not hard when put in water. Remove 
from fire and stir until the mass begins to set, Pour in buttered 
pans or plates about y 2 inch thick, and when nearly cold mark 
in squares. 

CHOCOLATE CARMELS NO. 1. 

Coffee "A" Sugar, 2 large | Baker's Chocolate, y 2 cake, 

coffee cups, i Butter, 1 tablespoon, 
Rich Cream, 1 coffee cup, Vanilla, 1 tablespoon. 

Mix well together the sugar, cream and grated chocolate 
before putting it on the stove ; then let it boil hard for 10 minutes, 
add the butter and vanilla, take from the fire and beat until it 
begin® to stiffen, then spread in buttered pans and make off into 
small squares. 



180 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



CHOCOLATE OARMELS NO. 2. 

Brown Sugar, 3 cups, Cream, i/ 2 cup, 

Molasses, 1 cup, | Baker's Chocolate, y 2 pound, 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Boil all of the ingredients together 25 minutes, then pour 
in a well greased pan, and when nearly cold mark in squares. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

New Orleans Molasses, 2| White Sugar, 2 cups, 

cups, j Vinegar, 1 tablespoon, 
Butter, size of a hickory nut, 

Boil all of the ingredients together, stirring occasionally, 
and watch closely so it will not boil over. Cook until it snaps 
when put in cold water, then put on buttered plates and pull 
when cold enough. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

Fresh Boasted Peanuts, lj Brown Sugar, 1 pound, 
quart, unshelled. 

Shell the peanuts. Put the sugar into a pan and melt it, 
but be careful not to burn it. When like a thick syrup stir in 
the nuts, then pour in a buttered deep pan and when nearly cold 
mark off into bars. If preferred, the nuts may be put into the 
pan and the syrup poured over them. 



INDEX 181 



INDE.X 



Pa$e 

BEVERAGES.. 

Beef Tea 147 

Chocolate 14G 

Cocoa 14G 

Coffee 145 

Egg Nog 14G 

Iced Tea 147 

Mulled Buttermilk 140 

Panada 147 

Raspberry Acid 147 

Tea 147 

BREAD, ROLLS AND SANDWICHES. 

Note on Bread 10 

Bread 11 

Brown Bread No. 1 12 

Brown Bread No. 2 13 

Brown Bread No. 3 13 

Coffee Bread 13 

Corn Bread 11 

Graham Bread 14 

Oatmeal Bread 15 

Rye Bread 15 

White Wheat Bread 16 

Potato Yeast 11 

Baking Powder Biscuit 18 

( 'ream Biscuit 18 

Flour ( Jems 19 

Graham Gems 18 

Light Biscuit 17 

Muffins 10 

Picnic Rolls 17 



182 INDEX 

Page 

I 'hicken Sandwiches 19 

Pocket Books 16 

Ham Sandwiches 19 

Lettuce Sandwiches 19 

Peanut Sandwiches 20 

Sardine Sandwiches 20 

[Tongue Sandwiches 20 

CAKES. 
LOAF CAKES 

Note on ( Jakes 114 

Angel Food No. 1 115 

Angel Food No. 2 116 

Angel Food by Weight 116 

Bangor Cake 116 

Chocolate Loaf Cake Ill 

Chocolate Square Cake 117 

( Jofifee Cake 118 

Corn Starch Cake 117 

Courl Cake 118 

White Cream Cake 118 

Date Cake 119 

Extra Nice Loaf Cake 119 

Fruit Cake L20 

Black Fruit Cake 119 

Best Fruit I Jake for Weddings 120 

A ( Jheap ( ringer < Jake 122 

Rich Soft Ginger Cake 122 

Soft Ginger Cake No. 1 , 121 

Soft Ginger Cake No. 2 122 

Hickory Nul Cake 123 

Plain Hickory Nut Cake 123 

Lunch Cake. 123 

Pink and White Cake 121 

Poor Man's Cake L24 

Pork Cake 124 

Railroad ( Jake 1 25 

Spanish Bun 127 

Spice rake 127 



INDEX 183 

Page 

Sponge Cake 125 

White Sponge Cake 126 

Yellow Sponge Cake 12.") 

Sunshine Cake No. 1 126 

Sunshine Cake No. 2 1 26 

White Tea Cake 127 

LAYER CAKES. 

Almond Cake 128 

Banana Cake 129 

( 'ream ( Jake 129 

( Jarmel Fig Cake ] 'JO 

White Fig Cake 130 

Hickory Nut Cake 131 

Jell Roll . 13] 

Jell Cake 131 

Lemon Jelly Cake 13:: 

Maple Sugar Cake 132 

Marshmallow Cake 133 

Orange Cake No. 1 133 

Orange Cake No. 2 L;4 

Orange Cake No. 3 131 

Pineapple Cake 134 

LITTLE CAKES. 

Almond ( Jakes 130 

Almond Macaroons 136 

( 'alia Lilly Cakes 136 

Soft Cookies 137 

Crullers or Fried < Jakes No. 1 137 

Crullers No. 2 LSI 

Doughnut- No. 1 13S 

Doughnuts No. 2 IBS 

Ginger Ralls 140 

Soft Ginger Cakes 13:) 

( Hnger Cookies 13^ 

Ginger Nats 139 

Ginger Snaps 13"^ 



184 INDEX 

Page 

Cold ( Jakes 140 

Hickory Nut Macaroons 140 

Rich Jumbles 140 

Sand Tarts 141 

Spice Cakes Ill 

CAKE ECINGS. 

Boiled Icing No. 1 11- 

Boiled Icing No. 2 L42 

Carmel Icing 142 

Chocolate Icing 143 

Chocolate Carmel Icing 143 

Chocolate Cream Icing L43 

( Jelat ine Icing . 113 

Pink Icing Ill 

Yellow Icing 144 

CANDIES. 
UNCOOKED CANDIES. 

French ('ream Candy 176 

Colored Creams 177 

Almond Creams 170 

( Jhocolate Almonds 177 

( chocolate < Jreanns 176 

Chocolate Walnuts 177 

Cocoanut Creams 176 

Date Creams 1 77 

Fig ( "minis 177 

Nut ( 1 reams 177 

Walnut Creams. . 177 

COOKED CANDIES. 

Butter Scotch 178 

< Chocolate ( larmels No. 1 170 

Chocolate Carmels No. 2 ISO 

( Chocolate Fudges 170 

< Jocoanut < 5andy 178 






INDEX 185 

Page 

Cream Cocoanut Candy 178 

< Jocoanut Drops 178 

Cream Candy 179 

Cream Fudges 171) 

.Molasses Candy 180 

Peanut Candy 180 

CANNED FRUIITS AND PRESERVES. 

Note on ('aiming Fruits * 148 

To ( 'an Fruit Juices 148 

( 'aimed Blackberries 149 

( 'aimed ( 'berries 149 

Canned Late ( 'berries 149 

Canned Currants . 149 

Canned Gooseberries 149 

Canned Peaches 150 

( 'aimed Baked Peaches 150 

( 'aimed Pears 150 

Canned Plums 150 

Canned Black Raspberries 151 

( 'aimed Red Raspberries 151 

( 'aimed Strawberries 151 

To Can ( torn 151 

Note on Preserves 15i> 

Apricot Preserves 152 

Quince Preserves 152 

Red Tomato Preserves 153 

Yellow Pear Tomato Preserves 153 

VA ;< JS, ( ).M ELETS AND CROQUETTES. 

I Saked Eggs •. 53 

Boiled Eggts 53 

1 )eviled Eggs 53 

Panned Eggs 51 

Poached Eggs , 53 

Scrambled Eggs 54 

( 'lieese ( Hnelet 54 

Egg ( Mnelet 54 



186 INDEX 

Page 

Ham Omelet 55 

( tyster ( Mnelet 55 

Cheese Ramkins 58 

< Miieken Croquettes 55 

Oyster Croquettes 57 

Potato Croquettes ~u 

Veal Croquettes 57 

Codfish Balls No. 1 .' 56 

Codfish Kails No. 2 56 

Meat Cecils 56 

Salmon l'ati ies 57 

Fried M ush o7 

FISH AND OYSTERS 

Baked Fish 47 

Planked Pish 47 

Scaloped Fish 4S 

Creamed Codfish 4S 

Codfish Nests IS 

Salt Codfish 40 

Scalloped Codfish and Cheese 1" 

Deviled Crabs M 

Salmon Loaf 40 

( )reamed < Oysters 50 

Fried < hsters No. 1 50 

Pried < hsters No. 2 50 

Frizzled Oysters 5] 

Little Pigs in Blankets 51 

Raw < >yster Dish 51 

Oyster Saute 52 

Scalloped < hsters No. 1 52 

Scalloped ( hsters No. 2 52 

GRIDDLE CAKES AND FRITTERS. 

Buckwheat Cakes : 21 

< Jorn .Meal Griddle Cakes 21 

Flannel Cakes 21 

French Pancakes. 22 



INDEX 187 

Page 

Waffles 22 

Green Corn Fritters 23 

Peach Fritters -. 23 

Plain Fritters 23 

Rice Fritters 24 

Mock Oysters 2 ! 

ICE CREAMS AX I) ICES. 

Banana Ice Cream 109 

Carmel Ice Cream 109 

( Jhocolate Ice Cream 110 

Lemon Ice Cream 110 

Peach Ice Cream 110 

Pineapple Ice Cream Ill 

Strawberry Ice Cream Ill 

Tntti Frntti Ice Cream Ill 

Vanilla Ice Cream No. 1 Ill 

Vanilla Ice Cream No. 2 112 

Lemon Ice 112 

Orange Ice 112 

Pineapple Ice 112 

Roman Punch 113 

Fruit Sherbet 113 

Pineapple Sherbet 113 

JELLS AND JAMS. 

Apple Jell 151 

Crabappl Jell 154 

( Currant Jell 15J 

Gootseberry Jell 155 

Wild Gooseberry Jell L55 

Crape Jell L55 

Green Crape Jell 155 

Plum Jell L56 

Quince Jell 1 56 

Black Raspberry Jell 156 

Red Raspberry Jell 156 

Blackberry Jam 157 



188 INDEX 

Pa$e 

( 5urrant Jam 157 

Gooseberry Jam 157 

Peach Jam 157 

IMum Jam 157 

Black Raspberry Jam 15S 

Red Raspberry Jam 158 

Strawberry Jam 158 

MEATS AM) MEAT SAUCES. 

A La Mode Beef 26 

Corned Beef and Cabbage 20 

Creamed Beef 2(J 

Beef Loaf 40 

Roast Beef 25 

Pot Roast of Beef 2.") 

Chicken Pie 28 

( Jreamed ( Jhicken 29 

Deviled Chicken 30 

Fricasseed ( Jhicken 29 

Fried < Jhicken 28 

Jellied Chicken 29 

Pressed Chicken 30 

Roast Chicken 28 

Roast Dii.k 30 

Drawing Fowls 27 

Fried Frog's Legs 31 

Baked Ham. 31 

Boiled Ham 31 

I lam Rarebit 32 

Nasi. 32 

Kidney Saute 33 

Slewed Lamb Chops 33 

Broiled Lamb Chops 33 

Lamb with Mushroom Sauce 34 

Roast Lamb 34 

Fried Call's Liver 34 

Fried Pig's Feet 35 

Pickled Pie's Feet 35 



INDEX 189 

Page 

Roast Pork with Sweet Potatoes 34 

Roast Quail 36 

Sweet Breads 36 

Fried Sweet Breads 36 

Tongue in Aspie Jelly 36 

Boiled Tongue 37 

Roast Turkey 37 

Veal Cutlets". 39 

Veal Loaf 10 

Veal Pie 38 

Pressed Veal 39 

Roast Veal 38 

Stuffed Breast of Veal 3!) 

Venison Steak 49 

( >v>ter Dressing for Turkey or Chicken 41 

To Make Tough Meats Tender 41 

To Make Tough Steak Tender 41 

Fried Apples No. 1 42 

Fried Apples No. 2 12 

Apple Sauce 12 

Bechamel Sauce 43 

Caper Sauce • 43 

To ( Jook ( Jranherries No. 1 43 

To Cook Cranberries No. 2 44 

Currant Jell Sauce 43 

Egg Sauce 44 

Mint Sauce 4.") 

Mushroom Sauce 41 

Oyster Sauce No 1 ' 4.~> 

( hster Sauce No. 2 4-1 

Soubise Sauce 46 

Tomato Sauce 49 

MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 

Bread < 5rumbs 1 7^> 

Bread Sticks. . 17:5 

Browned Flour . 171 

Buttered ( 'rontons 1 72 



190 INDEX 

Page 

Cheese Straws 173 

Cheese Crackers 173 

( Jider Vinegar 175 

Drawn Butter 173 

Onion Juice 175 

Salted Almonds 172 

Salted Peanuts 172 

To Blanche Almonds or Peanuts 172 

To Keep Eggs for Winter Use 174 

To Prepare Drippings 175 

To Prepare Pat for Frying Oysters, Etc 174 



PIES. 



Pie Crust No. 1 77 

Pie Oust No. 2 78 

Puff Paste 77 

Apple Pie .' 78 

Banana Pie 78 

Banana ('ream Pie 79 

Blackberry Pie 70 

Blueberry Pie 79 

Cocoanul Cream Pie 80 

Cherry Pie 79 

Chocolate Pie 80 

Cranberry Pie 80 

Curranl Pie 81 

Plain Custard Pie 81 

To Prepare Elderberries for Pies 85 

Goosel terry Pie 81 

Lemon ('ream Pie No. 1 81 

Lemon < Jream Pie No. 2 82 

Two Crust Lemon Pie 81 

M incemeat 85 

Orange Pie 82 

P.aeh Pie 83 

Pieplant Pie 83 

Pineapple Pie 83 

Pumpkin Pie 83 



INDEX 191 

Page 

Black Raspberry Pie 84 

Bed Raspberry Pie 84= 

PUDDINGS, PUDDING SAUCES AND DESSERTS 

Note on I >esserts 86 

Notes on Gelatine 98 

Apple Bird's Nest 87 

Apple Charlotte 100 

Apple Dumplings 87 

Apple Snow . . 88 

Birds Nest Pudding 108 

To Serve Bananas 88 

< Jorn Starch Blanc Mange 89 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 89 

( 'handily Pudding 90 

( Charlotte Russe No. 1 99 

( Charlotte Rus-e No. 2 99 

( 1 iicoanut Custard 88 

( Jottage Pudding 89 

< 'up ( Justard 88 

Pig Pudding 90 

Fruit Salad 100 

Fruit Sponge 108 

Graham Pudding 91 

Hickory Nut Pudding 91 

Jellies with Ripe, Fresh Fruit 107 

Lemon Jell No. 1 101 

Lemon Jelly No. 2 102 

Orange Cream 103 

( ►range I dessert 102 

Orange Float 102 

Orange Jell 103 

Orange Pudding. ^ 103 

Peach Shortcake ill 

Baked Pears 92 

Pineapple Salad No. 1 104 

Pineapple Salad No. 2 104 

Pineapple Snow 103 



192 INDEX 

Page 

Pineapple Trifle 104 

Plum Pudding 91 

English Plum Pudding 92 

Prune Pudding 91 

Raisin Puffs 92 

linked Rice 105 

Rice < 'ream 105 

Rice Dessert 105 

Snow Pudding No. 1 106 

Snow Pudding No. 2 107 

Spanish < 'ream 106 

Plain Steamed Pudding 92 

Strawberry Charlotte 100 

Strawberry Shortcake 94 

Indian Suet Pudding . . • 0:5 

Plain Suel Pudding 93 

Rich Suet Pudding 93 

Tapioca ( 'ream 94 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 95 

Pineapple Tapioca Pudding. ... 95 

Transparent Tapioca Pudding 9.5 

Velvet Cream 108 

Wine Jelly 107 

Whipped < 'ream 107 

Hard Brandy Sauce 96 

Plain Brandy Sauce 96 

Rich Brandy Sauce 96 

(Meai- Sauce 97 

< 'ream Sauce 97 

Lemon Sauce 97 

Pineapple Sauce 97 

Sabyllon Same 98 

Strawberry Sauce 98 

Vanilla Sauce 98 

Note on Salads 59 

Lettuce ( 'nps 59 

Swedish Timbals 50 

Bean Salad 60 

Cabbage Salad No. 1 60 



INDEX 193 

Page 

Cabbage Salad No. 2 60 

Celery Salad 61 

Chicken Salad 61 

Cucumber Salad 62 

Dandelion Salad 62 

Ham Salad 62 

Lobster Salad 63 

Oyster Salad 63 

Potato Salad No. 1 64 

Potato Salad No. 2 (i4 

Hot Potato Salad 64 

Salmon Salad 65 

Sardine Salad 65 

Shrimp Salad 66 

Sweet Bread Salad 65 

Tomato Salad No. 1 66 

Tomato Salad No. 2 67 

Bottled Salad Dressing 67 

Butter Salad Dressing <;7 

1 ►ressing for < told Slaw 69 

French Salad Dressing 68 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 1 68 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2 6S 



SOUPS. 



Soup Stock No. 1 -'. 

Soup Stock No. 2 4 

Cream of Asparagus Soup t 

Barley Soup 1 

Bean Sou]) 5 

Beef Bouillon r> 

( 'hickcii Bouillon ."> 

Chicken Soup ~. 

Consomme r> 

< Jreain of Celery Soup 7 

( Jorn Soup <; 

Soup Dumplings 7 

Macaroni Soup 7 



194 INDEX 

N lie Soup. . . 7 

( )\I;iil Soup. 8 

< hsier Sou]) 8 

Potato Soup 8 

Tomato Puree 9 

Tomato Soup with Onions 9 

( Ireamed Tomato S »up 8 

Vegetable Soup 

SPICED FRUIT AND PICKLES. 

Spiced < 'urrant • L59 

Spiced ( Gooseberries 159 

Spiced Plums ' 160 

Note on Pickles 160 

Pickled Apples 160 

Pickled Crab Apples 161 

Pickled Cauliflower 161 

Spiced Cauliflower ...... 161 

< Vlerv Pickle 162 

( Cucumber Pickles 162 

Sour ( Jucumber Pickles 162 

Spiced Cucumber Pickles 163 

Dill Pickles 163 

Hodge Podge Pickle 164 

Muskmelon Sweet Pickle 166 

Green Muskmelon Mangoes 165 

Pepper Mangoes 164 

Pickled Onions K»u' 

Brandied Peaches 1 60 

Pickled Peaches L67 

Pickled Pears L67 

Piccalilli \<\* 

( ; reel i Tomato Pickle 168 

Pipe Tomato Pickles 168 

Watermelon Sweet Pickle 169 

Chili Sauce 170 

('old Catsup 170 

Tomato Catsup 171 



INDEX 195 

Page 

VEGETABLES 

Asparagus ' 

Asparagus on Toasl '.° 

Uakcd Bean;s ■••■ i{ * 

S< alloped < )orn ( 

Egg Plant I 1 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Creamed < Anions '* 

Oyster Plant '- 

79 

Green Peas _- 

Uaked Potatoes J 3 

Creamed Potatoes l ^ 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 73 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 74 

Saratoga Chips 73 

Scalloped Potatoes No. 1 74 

Scalloped Potatoes No. 2 74 

St uffed Potatoes ■ 73 

To < 00k ( )ld Potatoes • • • 75 

Fricasseed Sweet Potatoes ^ 

Scalloped Squash 75 

Scalloped Tomatoes 76 

Stuffed Tomatoes 76 

( 'reamed Turnips 

Time Talde for Cooking Vegetables 

Table of Weights and Measures - 



FEB 5 W3 



