
Illinois Institute 

of Technology 

Libraries 



AT 308 

Pirrie, Peter Gustave 
Some observations on the 
baking test as commercially 




i^ 



A THESIS 
PEESmraED BY 
PEIER GIBTAVE PIRRIE 
TO TEE 
PKESIDEHT AND FACULTT 
OF 
ARMOUE INSTITUTE OF lECEIIOLOGY 
FOE THE DEGREE OF 
BACHELOR OP SCIEICE 
IH CEEmCAL ElTGrHSERIHG 
HAVING COHPLETED TEE PHESCSIBED 
COURSE OF STUDY IN 
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 
1913 



Approved: - 



Approved 






ProfesBOrfof Chemical Engineering 



o^^.^^ 



Dean of Engineering Subjects 



ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ~7^^ L 

PAUL V.GALVIN LIBRARY ^ -^^ ^n^^n^^^..^,^ ^ 

35 WEST 33RD STREET ^<^^«^ '^^iZ^ai>r<i£^yiaU^i^, 



PAUL V. GALVIN LIBRARY 
35 WEST 33RD STR 
CHICAGO, IL 60616 






I H D E X 

Page 

Reasons for Investigation 1 

Llethod of Performing Strictly 

Chemical and Physical Tests 7 

Apparatus for Killing and Baking 10 

Explanation of System of Testing 13 

Discussion of Methods of Mlling 17 

Tempering tlie San^le 24 

The Baking Test, Discussion 26 

Method 30 

Gluten Expansion Dough Test 35 

Reasons for Disagreement in Results 38 

Summary 42 



841S9 



sons OBSSEVATIONS OH TEE BAZIUG TEST AS 

COMEECIALLY APPLIED TO WHEAT AHD 

FLOUR 

The testing of different varieties of wheat and flour 
and of different lots of the same variety for relative 
baking value, is a liiie of experimental work that is be- 
coming more and more recognized as a comcercial necessity. 

The grading of wheat by a man who grades simply by 
feel, taste, and appearanse is yielding to grading by a 
chaaist who has performed a milling and baking test trpon 
the Bample. 

The general idea of the system is first to mill the 
wheat sample to flour, then to analyze the flour and 
bake it under identical conditions with a standard flour. 
In this way the sample can be judged in terns of the 
standard flour of the locality. Such a comparison 
would be very valuable if it were not that the nethods 
of milling and the various systems of baking used by the 
different commercial laboratories are so varied that it 
is difficult to place a comparative value on reports of 
wheats or flotirs tested in different laboratories. 

It has been the good fortune of the writer to be 
placed in charge of a most excellent equipment designed 



for carrying out the milling and baking tests on whsat 
and flour. Cne of my first e:<:T)eriences was to have 
returned to me a report of another laboratory on a sample 
of wheat I had tested, which report was attached to one 
of mine on the same sample, with hardly an agreeing fig- 
ure. Therefore, for some six months it has been my aim 
to discover the reasons for these wide differences in 
reports on the sane sample from different laboratories, 
and also, if possible, to discover a method of perform- 
ing such tests that would be logical and representative 
enough to be stiggested for use as standard. 

"ith the idea of determining the points in which the 
disagreonent is most evident, a set of samples was made 
up and sent to two coonercial laboratories considered by 
the trade to be the best in the country. Wiese samples 
were milled and baked by myself according to prevailing 
government methods, and the results were compared to 
those reported by the two laboratories. 

The United States G-ovemment laboratories have no 
bulletin on baking and milling tests, but the Kansas 
State Agricultural College Experiment Station Bulletin 
ITo. 117 describes the tests essentially as the Govem- 

-2- 



ment laboratories carry them out. Hence the method 
of this bill let in was followed. 

The varieties sent out were a Northern Spring wheat 
and a Kansas 2 Hard. A tabulated comparison of the 
reports follows :- 



WHEAT 

Protein 

Ash 

IdOisture 



northern Spring 
Home A B 

14.4 13.6 13.0 
1.79 1.70 1.78 

IS.l 12.7 13.65 



Kansas 2 Hard 
Hone A B 

11.5 11.6 11.4 
2.01 1.8 i.e 

10.5 11.8 11.4 



MILLIHG TEST 

Weight Scoured 
Loss on ScoTiring 
Weight Hilled 
Passes on Hou^ Bolls 
Passes on Smooth Polls 
Weight of Bran 
Weight of Shorts 
Weight of Flour 
Loss in Mill 



1250 


2100 


1250 


1250 


2100 


1250 


32 


36 


25 


40 


34 


15 


1000 


2000 


1000 


1000 


2000 


1000 


9 




3 


9 




3 


6 




12 


8 




10 


272 


165 


300 


243 


105 


260 


27 


280 


55 


25 


290 


70 


660 


1390 


645 


715 


1440 


670 


41 


165 





127 


165 






FLOtffi 



Protein 

Ash 

Uoisture 



12.7 


11.5 12.4 


10.1 9.3 9.7 


.54 


.47 .47 


.50 .55 .46 


12.54 


12.7 13.0 


12.1 11.7 12.3 



BAZmG TEST 

Absorbtion, per cent. 

Time llax. Expansion, Min. 

Volume in cu, in. 

Weight flour per loaf, grams 340 

Weight of loaf, grams 



59.0 


54.7 


60.0 


59.0 


56.2 


59.0 


171 


315 


120 


192 


302 


120 


76 


205 


110 


74 


183 


105 


340 


340 


350 


340 


340 


350 


498 


490 


600 


498 


490 


590 



-3- 



It is very evident from the foregoing that each lab- 
oratory had a method of milling and baking of its own. 
What similarity there is is very slight, 

Irthen we consider the results of baking, we see that 
my system and that of "B" are somewhat similar but do 
not agree in results, and that "A" bakes in such a way 
as to get almost three times our volume of loaf. 

It cannot be expected that any subsequent determina- 
tion will check when the methods of milling differ so 
widely. This is made very evident from an examina- 
tion of the results of the chemical tests and the ab- 
sorbtiou. The fact, however, that this difference may 
be Trtiolly explained by the difference in the method of 
milling and baking, and that the flours were really 
not chemically as different as the tests indicate, led 
me to put up five sets of flour, of five samples each, 
and send them out to several different laboratories to 
check up the chemical part of the work. 

The report follows :- 

PEOTEI]J, as reported 

Home "B" "C" "D" "E" 

Sample No. "L" 11,50 11.30 11.96 11,62 11.37 

"M" 10.05 9.90 10.20 10.08 10.82 

"N" 9.50 8.95 9.75 9,87 10.32 

"0" 9.05 8.95 9.30 9.30 9.82 

"P" 10.70 10.0 11.11 10.89 10.85 

-4- 



Careful observation of these analyses will show that 
if we take the average of "C" and "D" reports (these 
two laboratories are admitted by everyone to be imq-ues- 
ti enable in this particular analysis) and compare this 
average with my report, they checlr in every case as 
closely as is possible in an ordinary Kjeldahl determin- 
ation. However, both "B" and "E" differ as much as one 
whole per cent. 

This shows that careless work is being done by just 
those laboratories that do not check the baking tests 
under discussion. It is astonishing that a laboratory 
of nation-wide reputation such as "B" enjoys would re- 
port saniples "K" and "0" the same in protein when four 
other laboratories agree that there is 50^ difference 
in f&vor of "W\ 

Having thus shown to my satisfaction that the dis- 
agreement in chemical data is due more to careless an- 
alysis than to actTaal difference in asir^let it remained 
to check up these laboratories on the baking results. 
This was done by sending them a sample of v/heat to be 
tested, and some weeks later sending, thru a different 
channel, a sample of the same wheat to the same labor- 
atory. 

-6- 



On coKip£.ring the two reports it was foxaid that the 
chemical data did not cteck, but that the baJcing data 
did, at least as closely as it is reasonable to expect. 
This raeans that, whatever the disagreement in chemical 
data is doe to, it is fairly certain that the disagree- 
ment in baking data is dve chiefly to the difference in 
milling and baMng systems of different laboratories, 
each laboratory having a milling and baking system of 
its own. This is brought out very forcibly when it is 
remembered that laboratories will persistently check 
themselves but not each other. 

It remains therefore to discuss the various methods of 
conducting milling and baking tests, and, if possible, 
to determine methods that bring out to the best advantage 
the relative qualities of the samples under consideration. 
The equipment used for this work is briefly described, 
and the methods finally adojjted are outlined in the fol- 
lowing pages. 



-6- 



Method of Performing; 
Strictly Cheaical and Physical Testa 

The chemical work was done along standard lines as 
indicated by Bulletin ITo, 107 of the tftiited States 
Department of Agriculture, These methods are be- 
yond all doubt as efficient as can be devised, and no 
changes were made except those needed to meet local 
conditions. Such details as are not covered by Bul- 
letin Ho. 107 are given below. 

All flour samples were weighed by difference from 
glass weighing bottles, using aluminxm spoons which 
were left inside tiie weighing bottle during all oper- 
ations. 

Moisture determinations on flour were made in glass 



tubes 3-4 in. z 3 in,, heating in air at 103 C, for 
seven hours and weighing in a glass capsule to avoid 
the effect of the absorbtion of moisture by the hygro- 
scopic material. 

Moisture tests on wheat were made by the use of the 
Brown and Duvel Moisture Tester as finally adopted by 
the Department of Agriculture, This consists es- 
sentially of a set of stills heated by gas, in which 100 
-7- 





Laboratory Equipment 



grains of wheat is placed and covered by a non-volatile 
oil. On being heated, the moisture is distilled off 
and collected in a graduate. The volumo in c.c. 
gives the percentage directly. This apparatus was 
operated according to the directions furnished by the 
Kny Sheerer Co., of Hew York, 

Specific gravity of the wheat kernel was determined 
according to the method of Circular Ho. 99, United 
States Department of Agriculture, Sureau of Plant In- 
dustry. This consists essentially in placing a 
weighed quantity of the cereal in a picnometor or 
specific gravity bottle and then filling the bottle 
up to the mark with toluene. The specific gravity 
of the toluene being Imown, and its weight determined 
by difference, the volume of tte cereal can be obtain- 
ed and the specific gravity calculated. 

The "weight of 100 kernels" was determined by fold- 
ing a paper to form a V-shaped gutter aiid then poiuring 
in a handful of the wheat from one end of the gutter. 
By commencing at one end and counting off 100 kernels, 
a very average sample can. be obtained. Two sets of 
100 kernels are weighed to one milligram and the aver- 
age taken. 

-8- 





Laboratory Equipment 



Vilien it was necessary to report weight per bushel, a 
500 c.c. glass graduate was filled level full with the 
sample, and the weight of this volurao of wheat in grams 
multiplied by .16 to give the weight of one bushel in 
pounds. The factor .16 is derived from tlK fact tMt 
one bushel of water weighs 80#. Therefore, 

80 X weight wheat in grams weight of wheat 



weight water in grams pounds per bu. 



-9- 



Apparatus for Jgilling and Baking 

Before taMng up the discussion of the methods of 
milling and baking, a short description of the appar- 
atus should be of value. 

The wheat was milled on a special Allis Chalmers 
ilsperimental Mill comprising three sets of six-inch 
rolls and a jig bolting machine. Two sets of the 
rolls were corrugated; one set 16 and 12 to the inch 
and the other 24 and 18 to the inch. These rolls 
grind dull to sharp and the fast roll runs a little 
more than twice as fast as the slow one. The smooth 
rolls have a differential of 7 to 10, that is, the 
fast roll malces 10 revolutions while the slow one 
makes 7. Accurate adjustment of the rolls is pro- 
vided by two large screws on the side of each roll, 
which allow the rolls to be adjusted so that they are 
in the sajne plane, and by two smaller screws to set 
them parallel. The rolls are thrown "in" and "out" 
by means of a lever. A mechanical jig bolting ma- 
chine completes the equipment of the mill. Frames 
of standard bolting cloths are made to fit this jig; 
and as many as four frames may be inserted at one time. 
-10- 





Milling Apparatus 



Before going to the mill the wheat mast be clean, as 
that term is ordinarily tmderstood. This is usually 
accomplished by the use of some sort of fanning mill, 
which does not, however, remove much dirt from the 
crease. In these experiments a Eureka Horizontal Close 
Scourer, manufactured by the S. Howes Co. was used. It 
removes the crease dirt, a considerable portion of the 
outer bran coat, and the beard from the end of the Icer- 
nel. The Scourer is capable of wide adjustment to 
suit various sizes of stock. 

The complete scouring and milling equipment is run by 
a five horse power electric motor connected thru clutches 
so that either or both machines may be run at one time. 

The baking of the flour was performed by the use of a 
35^ C, electric-heated special dough raising cabinet and 
a Simplex Electric Oven with a range of from 150 C. to 
325" C. 

The pans used for baking were identical with those 
used by the United States Government laboratories and 
of the following inside dimensions:- Bottom, 2 7-8 in. 
z 5 13-16 in. Top, 3 7-16 in. x 6 13-16 in. Depth, 
5 7-16 in. They are designed to use 340 grams (12 oz. ) 
Of flour and yield a loaf of about 500 grams (17 1-2 oz.) 

-11- 





Ovens 



and 1750 c.c. (or 105 cu. in.). 

Besides the above equipment there is a fall chemical 
outfit, including a constant temperature Freas Electric 
Oven with a range of from room teniperattire to 185 C, 
which is used for the moisture tests on the floiir, and 
a Hoskins Electric Muffle with a range of from 250*^ C. 
to 1100*^ C. (145 F. to 2000° F. ) for running ashes. 



-12- 



Earplanation of 
, System of Testing 

As before stated, the principle of the system is to 
mill the wheat sample to flour and then analyze and bake 
the flour under identical conditions with the standard 
flour of the locality. In the case of flour samples, 
the process is, of course, the sane with the omission of 
the milling operation. 

The question of the standard is a very perplexing one, 
as it is not fixed but depends largely on the local re- 
quirements. That which is considered 1iie best flour in 
one district is not the best in another, and there- 
fore the chemist first requires to know the exact kind 
of flour the miller wishes to make. The miller can us- 
ually lay his hands on one particular parcel which has 
the approval of his most skillful and critical customers, 
which he would like always to supply and which he would 
be content to take as standard. If he can also obtain 
certain samples uSiich more or less fall short of this 
standard, and with clearly marked defects, they will also 
be of service. The clBmist should be supplied with 
these samples, and his first object should be to find out 
-13- 



\7here the faulty samples differ from the standard one. 
There can be given no general directions as to how 
this is to he done, since it is hero that the skill and 
judgment of tlie expert are brought to bear on the prob- 
lems of each particular flour. However, a baking test 
will usually yield very definite information, and it is 
almost wholly upon data from such tests that the grading 
of samples depends. Still it is remarkable how soon, 
as a result of regular testing, the chemist can form an 
opinion on the quality of flour and recognize deviations 
from the standard by observation of pTorely empirical 
factors. 

Having such a standard, the matter of testing the 
samples on hand takes a rather definite form. If the 
idea is to sell i;*ieat to the mill, then the samples on 
hand will be milled and baked alongside the standard. 
The selling points of tlie wheats on hand can then be 
very clearly brought out, and the mill will know exact- 
ly what it is buying. It is of course usual that 
tests will be made by both parties to the sale, and the 
reports of the two laboratories will be checked against 
each other. 

-14- 



If the ftmction of the laboratory is to control the 
running of the mill itself, the miller will take 
samples from those parts of the mill which will afford 
the most information, and the chemist will duly test 
the same. In particular if stispicion attaches to the 
work of any one machine or part of the mill, samples 
of the products of this section will receive special 
attention. If any marked departure from the usual 
standard occurs, attention should be drawn to it, and 
the defect remedied by proper adjustment. 

It is almost entirely with the former object, that 
of selling wheat to the mills, that the present inves- 
tigation was undertaken, and the present discussion is 
an attempt at a solution of the cause for the wide dif- 
ferences that exist in reports on the same samples 
from different laboratories. These differences are 
especially pertinent when the two laboratories are those 
of buyer and seller, and a referee chemist appointed to 
clear the trouble furnishes a third report that differs 
as widely from either of tie other two as they differ 
from each other. 

It is accepted almost without question that chemi- 
cal tests alone furnish little or no reliable informa- 

-15- 



tion as to milling qualities of wheat and subsequent 
baking qualities of the flour produced, UThile nruch 
excellent -vrork has been done along these lines, no 
chemical or physical factors have as yet been discover- 
ed which will furnish the required information. It 
seems that at present the only means for judging the 
bread-malcing capacity of a wheat or flour is an actual 
ba3cizig test. 

Therefore, under the circumstances, the only true 
test for wheats is the milling test, in which the var- 
ious wheats are ground separately, and their resultant 
flours tested chemically and by J>afcing. In the follow- 
ing pages a discussion of the various methods used for 
these tests is taken up and a system outlined which is 
thought sufficiently representative of actual conditions 
as to be used as standard. 



-16- 



Disc-ass ion of Methods of Milling 

It has already been stated that the best general mode 
of testing wheats at present is that of first reducing 
the grain to flour and then testing the flour. Y/ith 
this end in view the larger mills are frequently fitted 
with small reduction plants by tftiich an experimental 
quantity of wheat may be reduced to flOTir and this test- 
ed before the whole of the wheat is ground. The plant 
for this purpose may be of various sizes from a fairly 
complete small roller mill installation to a specially 
made machine for reducing purposes, — the different 
separations being made by hand. 

The Allis Chalmers mill used in this work is a happy 
combination of the two. It is large enough to enable 
the operator to mill similarly to the flow sheets of 
the large mill, and at the same time small enough to 
handle accurately a sample of only three pounds with a 
very negligeable loss in the mill. 

If fitted with a middlings purifier, this mill is ca- 
pable of producing as pure a patent flour as any large 
mill. However, the size of original sample that 
would be necessary to matee patent flour in sufficient 

-17- 



amount to run a baMng test, and the time necessary to 
produce it, make it impossible to mill in tMs way if 
any large volume of work is to be handled. 

Accordingly, grain testing laboratories generally 
have come to the conclusion that for commercial work 
the production of a straight run flour is the only prac- 
tical solution. Given, however, a certain sample of 
wheat, there are innumerable methods of handling the 
mill to produce flour from it. The products of ths dif- 
ferent methods will be similar neither in physical nor in 
baking constants. Therefore it is highly necessary to 
have some definite system upon which to work. 

Entirely aside from methods of manipulating the mill, 
it is beyond all doubt correct to attempt to produce 
from the sample on hand a flour that will resemble as 
closely as possible the flour a large mill will yield 
from the same wheat. Since we are producing "straight" 
flour from our experimental mill, we ought therefore to 
attempt comparison with the straight vans from the big 
mills. 

It is peculiar that at present no large laboratory is 
doing this. The general method is to compare the ex- 
perimentally milled floiir to patent flour of standard 

-18- 



or stipposedly standard qualities. TThile this idea 
is capable of fumishir^ directly comparable figures 
between several sanrplest the actual values reported 
are of little significance unless conrpared to their 
proper grade of "strai^t" flour in terms of the same 
standard. 

Realizing this difficulty, one large laboratory is 
milling to A5^ straight flour in the mill and claims 
that flour so milled will resemble very closely the 
patent flour a big mill will produce from the same 
wheat. It is my opinion that this system is very 
poor for two reasons. In the first place, compar- 
ing a "straight" flour to a "patent" is illogical, 
and in the second place, various wheats do not yield 
the same per cent, of patent flour. In milling every 
sample to 45% straight flour we are not talcing into 
account the variation that will appear in the yield of 
patent flour, and this is considerable, — tlius throw- 
ing in a chance for a very great error. 

If we can produce only "straight" flour on our ex- 
perimental mill, we should compare it to straight 
flour, and the flour we produce should be milled ac- 
cording to a flow sheet resembling as closely as pos- 

-19- 



sible the average flow sheet of the big commercial mills. 
There is, however, considerable cause for discussion on 
this point. 

A large mill averages somewhat over 70^6 total flour, of 
which 5% is usually low enough grade to be thrown out in 
the process from the straight run. If, then, we attempt 
to mill to 66% flour, we should get a flour resembling 
the commercial grade. The difficulty is in selecting a 
flow sheet for' the mill. It is clearly possible for one 
person to mill close on the bran and tte other close on 
the shorts, and in that way both get the same percentage 
of flour but with very different properties. 

It appears to the writer that the first requirement 
for a milling sheet is that the 66^ of straight flour 
produced shall be as good a 66^ as is capable of being 
produced from that particular wheat. Therefore it is 
very difficult to furnish an exact flow sheet that can 
be followed to the letter, but the operator of the mill 
should bear in mind that he is to get as good flour as is 
possible from his sample. It is convenient, however, to 
have some fairly definite idea as to the flow of the 
wheat thru the mill; and for that reason tha attached 
sheet is presented. It should be remembered, hov/ever, 
-20- 



I 






■fcliat this represents only the skeleton of the system, 
and that the mill must be adjusted and the flov/ varied 
in maiay cases to suit the requirenents of the stock. 

This flov.' sheet v/ill yield about &&fo flour, A):, shorts 
and 30/i bran. The Roman nxanerals indicate the brealc 
or reduction number. The rectangle beloTA* the rolls 
represents the sieves that perfoin the operations of 
scalping, grading-, and dressing. The circles vvith 
cross lines in both directions represent the coarse cor- 
rugated rolls, while the circles v/ith lines in only one 
direction represent the fine corrvigated rolls. The 
smooth rolls are represented by open circles. The Arabic 
numerals refer to the number of wire and bolting cloth 
used, thus, #16, #18, and #20 are wire cloth, #34, #50, 
and #68 are bran and shorts sieves, and ^'11 and #12 are 
flouj- sieves. The fineness increases with the higher 
nimiber, but one must understand that the floui- sieves 
are in a different series from the others. 

The first break should have the rolls set in such a 
way that the berry is just broken open, and the further 
brealcs should be adjusted to roll open the berry rather 
than to crush it. After the bran is rolled out flat, 
the rolls are moved in a little more each time so as to 
-21- 



Steve off the flour. The adjustments on the smooth 
roll will depend entirely on the stock and cannot te 
given in general terms. 

The finished flOTor is run thru a #9 bolting cloth 
several times to remove any small amount of bran that 
nay have crept into it and to cake the saciple uniform. 

With the above system a very excellent flour can be 
produced, which, cor^idering the fact that no middlings 
or other air draught purifier is used, contains a re- 
markably small amoxmt of specks. The complete mill- 
ing operation is capable of being run in 50 minutes in- 
cluding the cleaning of the mill to prepare it for the 
next sample. 

It is not claimed by any means that the experiment- 
ally made flour will equal in every respect that ob- 
tained in practice on the larger scale; but usually 
the results will be sufficiently near comparative with 
each other to afford valuable information. The prac- 
tical miller will naturally make allowances for the 
milling peculiarities of the wheats he nay be thus ex- 
amining. 

If it were only possible to obtain a standard wheat 
sample the larger part of the difficulties in this re- 
-22- 



spect wculd be done away with inmed lately. It would 
sinrply be necessary to treat the sample to be tested 
and the standard sanple identically in both mill and 
bake, and the results would be directly comparative 
irrespective of flow sheet, kind of flour produced, 
personal equation, or type of mill. As it seems to 
be almost completely impoBsible to obtain a sanrple of 
wheat that can be called standard, we mast content our- 
selves with the previously outlined approximate methods. 



-23- 



Temp e rit g Hie Saaple 

The niain object of teinpering wbeat before milling 
is of course to toughen the bran in such a way as to 
mafee it flatten out between the rolls rather than 
break up into very small pieces and thus yield a flour 
with a high proportion of species. 

There are probably as many methods of tempering 
wheat as there are mills. I have been told by the 
superintendent of one mill that at one time he visited 
three lai^e mills located in the same town. One mill 
was grinding the wheat as it cane from the cars, the 
second was literally soaking the kernels with cold 
water* and the third was using live steam. The beauty 
of it all was that each mill was producing an admitted- 
ly Mgh grade flour. 

Personal equation probably plays the most imrportant 
part in the matter of tempering. 3ach miller knows 
just how he wants his wheat to enter the first breaks, 
and any method that will get it into that condition is 
acceptable. If we take the large average of mills to- 
day, we find that warm water alone or cold water in 
combination with steam is most generally used, but that 

-24- 



the time of application varies from two mimites to 
fifteen hotirs. 

It has been the practice in this laboratory to nse 
water of about 40 C. in fairly large araormt, and to 
allovr it to soak in for about three hotirs, during 
which time the jar containing the sample is shaken up 
and inverted every half hour. Ylith the proper amount 
of water, this method appears to yield a very tough 
bran, without affecting the inside of the kernel. 
The exact amount of water to be used cannot be given 
in general terms. For hard wheats about 35 c.c, per 
1000 grams and for soft wheats about 15 c.c, per 1000 
grams was used, but the amount depends more on the con- 
ditions of the berry than the variety. 

There are laboratories that malce a practice of mill- 
ing without any conditioning of the wheat sample what- 
ever. In the interest of producing as good a flour 
as possible with the equipment at hand, teinpering the 
sample was found to be an absolute necessity. 



-26- 



The Baldng? T eet 
Discussion 



With a given milling equijment there is bnt little 
possible variation in the method of manipulation if 
we grind to a certain grade of flour. This cannot 
be said to be true when it cones to the baking of 
bread. There are many different kinds of bread, and 
as many if not more methods of handling the dough be- 
fore baking. Hence it would not seem a very siinple 
problem to select any one method to be used for aver- 
age tests, where we are dealing with many different 
varieties of flour. 

However, the results of some tests run during the 
course of these experiments are so definite that they 
are included at this point to give foundation for an 
assertion to be made in the following pages. In ex- 
planation of these figures, suffice it to say that 
they signify a comparison between two different flours, 
and that each set of figures represents the results of 
a separate baking test. The irrportant factor is that 
these three bakes differed as widely in method of 
handling the dough as possible, but that within each 

-26- 



test the two loaves being compared were handled iden- 
tically. Each loaf is of course compared to its osm 
standard. 

The report follows :- 

Standard ABC 

Absorbtion 57.5 58,0 58.0 58.0 

Color 100.0 99.0 99.0 99.0 

Loaves per bbl. 100.0 100.3 100.3 100.3 

Size of Loaf 100.0 95.7 95.8 96.0 

Quality of Loaf 100.0 99.0 99.0 98.0 

Average Value 100.0 98.5 98.5 98.3 

Fermenting Period 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 

Quality of Gluten 100,0 91,4 91.5 91.7 

It is understood that the column labelled "standard" 
represents in reality three separate loaves, but as the 
figures "will be the same in all cases they are placed 
in one colunn. The columns "A" "B" "C" represent 
three separate bakes of the same flour by different 
methods. On accotint of the percentage system these 
different figures are directly comparable with each 
other. It will be noticed immediately that the col- 
trans are practically identical. This means that the 
method of baking is not the iinportant factor. It 
is only that whatever method is used each loaf must re- 
ceive similar treatnont with its standard. Thus the 
-27- 



choice of method will not depend on the type of loaf 
we wish to obtain, btit solely on the coramercial adapt- 
ability of the method. Under these circumstances we 
natiirally will use that method -nhich will allow us to 
run the most tests. 

Eow there are two general types of dough-handling 
methods adapted to the baking of tinned bread. These 
are generally known as the "sponge" method and the 
"straight dough" method. 

In the sponge method somewhat less than one half of 
the flour is mixed with an equal weight of water and 
all other ingredients. It is then allowed to ferment 
for 1 1-2 or 2 hours, depending on the type of flour, 
and is then mixed with the remainder of the flour and 
water to malce a dou^ of the proper consistency. It 
is then allowed to rise twice and is formed into loaves, 
placed in the pan it is to be baked in, and allowed to 
rise a definite amount. It is then baked. The com- 
plete operation takes about 4 1-2 hours. 

The straight dough method is in general the same as 
the sponge method with the omission of the sponging 
stage. In other words the dough is mitred to the proper 
consistency for baking at the very start of operations 
-28- 



instead of after a sponging stage. This naturally 
subtracts the time of sponging fwin the operation and 
enables a far larger number of saraples to be handled. 

In fact, with the same equipment, it has been found 
that just double the number of samples can be handled 
in one 8-hour day if the straight dough method is 
used instead of the sponge method. The quality of the 
loaves will be uniformly slightly lower, but the re- 
sults being comparative with each other, this cannot 
affect the test. 

For the above very potent reasons, the straight dough 
method is used in those espe^iinsnts. 



-29- 



The Baking Test 



Method 



A modification of the baking tests as outlined in 
BtQletin 117 of the Kansas State Agricultural College 
was used, because several things, as explained later, 
were thought necessary to bring the test into such 
form that its results would more closely give the 
actual coonercial value of the flour. 

For instance it was found that some flours from the 
red wheats of the southern states could not be baked 
satisfactorily by the above original method, whereas 
th^ are used to good results in practice. The modi- 
fication as will follow gives very good loaves. 

In making baking tests on different floxirs it is 
above all desirable that the test should be so conduct- 
ed that the differences in the results should be caused 
by the inherent qualities of the flour and not by vari- 
ations due to the method employed. However, in prac- 
tice the skilled baker adapts his method to suit the 
different flours he uses, and he remedies the defects 
in the flour to some eztent by the method of baking he 
uses. Therefore it has been the writer's aim to con- 
-30- 



duct these tests in such a way as to get as good bread 
as possible from the different flours, and if necessary 
to vary the method of baldng in some sll^t details to 
be able to do this. That such a method will yield 
resxilts that more closely approximate the results the 
flour is going to give in actual use is apparent, 

The actual bsQcing and its associated tests were made 
as follows : - 

The Straight Dou^ Test 

In these tests "dough" means a flour mixture that has 
been subjected to a short period of fermentation and 
baked as soon as the dough has risen a standard amount. 
This amotint is fixed by preliminary trial and is uniform 
in all these tests. The short period of fermentation 
varies from 1 to 3 hours and is secured by using fresh 
yeast in large qx:iantities. 

Before maMng the dou^ we must know the percentage of 
water that the flour will absorb to be of correct stiff- 
ness. This is found by weighing out 30 grams of the 
flour into a strong teaciq) and running in distilled water 
from a burette until the resultant dough is "right." The 
best test that the dough is "right" is to put it on the 
-31- 



■bottom of the cup in tlie form of a round ball and watch 
it for about 3 minutes. If it gradually settles dorm 
until it touches the rim of the circle on the bottom of 
the cup, it is satisfactory. If it stays in the origi- 
nal shape it is too stiff, whereas if it quic>ly sub- 
sides and overlaps the edge of the cup it is too thin. 
This test will be found to be sensitive in careful 
hands to witliin .26 c.c. on 30 grams of flour. The 
water that the flour absorbs is figured in percentage. 

Now the dough can be made. 340 grams of flour, 10 
grams of sugar, and 5 grams of salt are weighed out. 
The amount of water as determined by the absorbtion 
test, less 50 c.c, is also measured out. The flour is 
placed in the pan it is to be balzed in and placed in the 
constant temperature oven xmtil it reaches 35*^ C. As 

many grams of yeast as are necessary for the whole batch 
of loaves are weighed out and dissolved in enough cold 
water to just be able to draw out 50 c.c. of the resul- 
tant solution for each batch of dough. 10 grams of 
yeast should in this way get into each batch of doug};. 

T/lien the flour is warmed to the right temperature it 
is removed from tlie oven and 2-0 of it is placed in a 
dish. The water as raeasui-od out is heated to 42 C. 

-32- 



and the sugar and salt dissolved in it. Then exact- 
ly 50 c.c. of the yeast solution are withdi^wn in a 
pipette and added to the sugar and salt solution. The 
temperature of the resulting mixture should be very 



close to 35 C. This liquid mixture is then added to 
the flour. The resultant batter is beaten up v/ith a 
lai^e spoon or spatula until there are no more lumps, 
wMch usually takes about 2 minutes. The remainder of 
the flour is then added and the dough mixed, first by 
means of spatulas and then the liands, to a ball of well 
Imeaded consistency.-. After this operation, which us- 
ually takes but two or tlxree minutes, the dough is placed 
back in its pan, v/hich has been buttered in t lie meantime, 
and put back in the rising oven v;hoi-o it is kept at 35 
C. The dough is weighed at this juncture to ascertain 
the loss during the kneading-. This loss is xinavoidable, 
and usually is about 15 grams. It is due mostly to 
evaporation of moisture and sticking of some flour to 
t}i9 hands. 

The dough is now allovred to rise the standard amount 
and if it is a very v/eal-c flour from a soft wlieat, it is 
immediately baked, bixt if the flour has any reasonable 
strength it is knocked dovoi, rekneaded, and allowed to 
-33- 



rise a second time, and at the termination of this rise 
if the dou^ of one of the loaves shows signs of col- 
lapsing that loaf is then baked, otherwise a third rise 
is used. Most flotirs ceding troia sound wheats will 
stand three rises; they will even need them. The times 
of rising are carefully noted, and all loaves are baked 



exactly 30 minutes at 238 C. About 1-2 to 3-4 of an 
ho\ir after the loaf has been standing in the open air, 
it is weighed, and this weight is recorded as the weight 
of the hot loaf. This must of course be corrected for 
the small amotmt of dough lost in the Imeading. 

In measuring the volume' of the loaf it is put in an 
oblong box that already contains some turnip seed. 
Then the box is filled with the seed, gently rapped, and 
tJie seed leveled off at the top. The seed is poured 
out and weighed, and fr(xn the weight of seed that the box 
will contain when there is nothing but seed in it, the 
volume of the loaf can be obtained, since the volume of 
the box is known. This method has been found to be ac- 
curate to within 5 grams weight of seed, which corres- 
ponds to about 2-5 cu. in. in volume. 

The volume should be measured approximately one hour 
after removing the loaf from the oven as it will shrink 
-34- 



more and more the longer it stands. 

Gluten i:^3rpansion Dough Test 
This is for the purpose of testing the qtiality of 
the glnten and checking the relative fermentation 
period of the flour. The proceedure is identical 
as for the straight dough ezcept that 100 grams of 
flour are used instead of 340 grams, and the other 
ingredients in proportionate amounts. At the point 
where the regular dough would be panned, this dough is 
placed in the bottom of a well greased glass cylinder 
which is at a temperature of 35*^ C. and placed in the 
rising oven at 35° C. 

For the first hour no attention is required, but 
after that the height of the dough and the time should 
be recorded every 15 minutes; and later when it is evi- 
dent the dough is near its maximum volume, every five 
minutes. "lien the dough just begins to fall the vol- 
ume and time are noted. Prom the difference in initial 
and final volumes the relative qualities of the glutens 
are calculated. Since we start with the same amount of 
flour, the quality of the gluten itself will be equal 
to the net rise divided by the per cent, gluten in the 

-35- 



sample. This figure is then referred tc the similar 
figure of the standard flour on a percentage basis. 

Another method of performing this test which seems 
to yield more definite results uses the gluten itself 
instead of the dou^. For this purpose the gluten is 
washed out of the floxir in the usual way, ahd then 10 

grams of each gluten is placed, wet, in a tin cylinder 

o 
1 inch in diameter and placed in the "bsike oven at 200 

C. It will be found that the gluten will expand and 

after twenty-five minutes will have formed a porous 

column within the tin. The height of this column 

will be directly proportional to the quality of the 

gluten. 

In making all these tests, a flour the baking qual- 
ities of which are known, is selected and tested at the 
same time as the other flour. The results are con- 
pared on a percentage basis and in this way the unknown 
flour is judged. 

The usual form of report sheet is attached. The 
"gluten" and "ash" are the results of chemical tests, 
the "absorbtion" is reported in per cent, and is obtain- 
ed as previously e:^lained, "Color," "Loaves per bblV' 
"Size of Loaf" and "Qualitjr" will represent, on a basis 

-36- 



of standard s. 100^, those valuoB for the tested sample. 
The "Average Valtie" as stated is liie mean value of the 
above four. "Fermentation Period" is calculated from 
the total time necessary for rising, and "Quality of 
Gluten" is obtained as explained previously. 

A report of this kind, when the miller knows your 
system of milling and your standard, will tell him ex- 
actly what the wheat or flour Tinder discussion is worth 
to him. 



-37- 



Beasono for Disagreement in Results 

It was found possible by following the above methods 
very carefully to test samples of the same flour within 
the following limits ;- 



Volume of Loaf 1.2 cu. in. 

Ueight of Loaf 7 grams 

Texture of Loaf no variation 

Color of Loaf no variation 

Quality of Gluten 5 c.c. in 450 c.c. 

Fermentation Period 12 min. in 190 min. 



Uith the above very satisfactory results in my own 
work it was again attempted to check the other coniner- 
cial laboratories. Three samples of #2 Hard V/inter 
wheat were sent to laboratory "B" and their report com- 
pared with my own work according to the method I have 
just outlined. The reports are unique in the fact 
that they show absolutely no similarity whatever in 
either chemical or milling and baking results. The 
data is given in the table. 

For instance "B" grades #3 best of all while I 
graded #2 the best; also there is in most cases over 
one per cent, difference in protein results; while the 
ashes are too far apart to be considered at all. The 
variation in the chemical work has been previously 

-38- 



oraoH 



o ^ in 



& 



i»9«* 'q^l 



t^ o 





CD 


to 


in 


o 


O 


o 




CSJ 


iH 




auiOH 






• 












• 






O 




c^ 


o 


o 


f- 


c\l 


C>J 


to 


<o 




iH 




m 


o 


o 


o 


o 


o 


r-t 


o 










i-i 


rH 


I-I 


r-H 


iH 


pH 


iH 






CM 




















10 


^ 


o 


o 


VO 


o 


in 


O 


o 


o 


ulu 'q^ 










• 


• 












<J> 




CO 


to 


O 


o 


CO 


CO 


cr> 


r-t 








in 


CT> 


o 


o 


en 


cr> 


cy> 


O 





en 


to 


in 


o 


o 


in 




»* 


rH 








• 










• 




etaoH 


o 




c- 


o 


o 


to 


C\J 


i-H 


VO 




iH 




LO 


o 


o 


o 


O 


O 


r-i 










rH 


rH 


rH 


r-< 


rH 


t-i 






to 


















vO 


^ 


o 


O 


«o 


O 


to 


O 


in 


jiSii •q'BT: 


• 




• 




• 












cn 




00 


to 


o 


O 


CO 


CO 


o 








in 


cr> 


o 


O 


cr> 


(J> 


o 



paBpuBq.s a> 



• 




Vi 




•H 


rH 




c3 




>H 


,0 










© 


45 


cd 


1-^ 


5 


P< 


;h 





<H 


(^ 


fcJ5 





h^ 





> 


PJ 


ft 








•H 




«H 


>» 


ffl 


+> 


n> 





•p 


to 


fi 


0) 




•H 


cd 


S 


> 


© 


rH 


Pi 


g 


03 


H 


OS 


© 





•iH 


ts 


> 


© 


1-1 


CO 


<y 


< 


pL, 



U ft 






to 



cleared up in my favor, tut it is hardly credible th2.t 
a laboratory v/itb. a good reputation would lay itself 
open to losicg it by consistently careless work. 

I am inclined to think rather that the lack of agree- 
Eient, in the baking tests at least, is due to the follov/- 
ing facts :- 

(a) Different methods of milling will seriously af- 
fect the result. 

(b) The use of old or new yeast will affect the 
relative volumes of the loaves decidedly, this being 
a point especially liable to give trouble as weai: and 
strong flours are by no mesais equally affected by the 
same variations in the yeast. 

(c) The fact that "By for one, always reports 100^^ 
for the volume no natter what the variety of wheat 
shows that instead of baking each flour for its best 
result as it will be handled in practice, he is baking 
to constant volume or nearly so, and this alone woixld 
throw off all chances of comparison. 

(d) Different stiffnesses of dough used will vary 
the voliime of the loaf. 

(e) Different laboratories are using different stand- 
ards, 

-39- 



Several of the above statements need explanation. 

To show very clearly the difference in the method 
of milling, several wheats v/ere milled light to 45% 
flour and the sane wheats also milled according to the 
regular process to 65^' flour. These four samples were 
baifced side by side, and in the case of the soft flo^lrs 
a difference of 6 cu. in. in volume v;as obtained, while 
the strong flours yielded a difference of 2.5 cu. in., 
all in favor of the lighter milled samples. The color 
and texture of the loaves baked from the 45^2 flour 
also were at least 2.% better tlian those values for the 
65f, flour. 

Also several sairrples were bafced using old and new 

yeast, other conditions being the sane. A record of 

this bake follows:- 

Spring Plour TiYinter Flotir 

T/eight of Yesst Used 10 grams 10 grams 

Weight of Flour Used 340 grans 340 grams 

TZeight of Uater Used 190 grams 175 grans 

V.'eight of Sugar Used 10 grams 10 grans 

T7eight of Salt Used 5 grams 5 grams 

Volume of Loaf 



Fresh least 


83.7 


85,0 


rwo Days Old Yeast 


85.0 


82.2 


Three Days Old Yeast 


82.4 


80.2 



Relative Volume of Loaf from Soft Flour 

Fresh Yeast 101.4^ 

Two Days Old Yeast 96. 7^^ 

Three Days Old Yeast 97.3^ 
-40- 



Hie nach more decided effect of tiie old yeast on the 
weaker flour is very evident. 

To show clearly the effect of too nmch or too little 
water iu the dough a test on two sets of flours was 
nan, using estreaos of water. The flours used were 
milled from a spring wheat and a winter wheat respec- 
tively. The data of the test follows :- 



Spring Winter 

^ater Used 191 181 186 leS 175 Vf6 

Volume 83.8 78.0 82.0 69.8 77.2 77.6 

Color 100 100 99 99 99 99 

Terture 100 100 98 96 98 98 



It is clearly seen that working a dough too stiff 
cuts down decidedly on the volume of the loaf, but 
that a reasonable overdose of vra-ter has no detrimental 
effect, but rather a good one. It is very unlikely 
tliat too much water will be used in any case, as the 
kneader will immediately become aware of the fact by 
the stickiness of the dough. But it is quite possi- 
ble not to have enough water, and not to notice the 
fact. 



-41- 



Stiramary 

In the foregoing pages I have tried to show the im- 
portance of this line of chemical work, and at the same 
time indicate the unsettled condition of affairs. It 
is very evident that if the different commejrcial labor- 
atories do not choose some one system of working, and 
follow this system out conscientioxisly, very little 
coniparative value can attach itself to their reports. 

It certainly is deplorable tlrnt at present it is im- 
possible to get even a similarity between reports from 
different laboratories on the same wheat or flour 
sample. 

In view of the past discussion, it seems to mo that 
to remedy this all laboratories in this line should 
mill their wheat and bake their flour according to 
some definite and uniform plan. Such a plan, very 
representative of conditions in the big mills, has 
been suggested. The baking method should be such 
that it brings out the commercial value of the flour 
and not the comparison produced by subjecting the 
flour to abnormal conditions. The test as suggested 
does this very nicely. 

-42- 



Then to get the same results it will be necessary 
only to adhere strictly to six rules, which can be 
shortly and siniply stated as follows :- 

(1) All wheats should be milled to a definite per- 
centage of flour (66^) according to a uniform milling 
sheet, so that one person does not mill close on the 
bran and the other close on the shorts and in that way 
both get the same percentage of floxir, but quite dif- 
ferent in properties. 

(2) The yeast used in the experiments should be con- 
trolled not by taste or feel but by actual "gas" tests 
so as to eliminate all chance of the yeast affecting 
the restilts by having one laboratory use old yeast and 
another fresh, strong yeast, in that ray rendering a com- 
parison of their reports an impossibility. 

(3) Loaves should be baked for their own particular 
merits, and not accoz-ding to conditions that they will 
be sure not to meet in coimcrcial baking. 

(4) The amount of rise in the expansion case before 
baking should be controlled vei-y carefully, and all 
should allow the same rise. I have found by repeat- 
ed tests tJjat three minutes overtime on the last rise 
will affect the volume of the loaf as much as 10$^, and 

-45- 



if the dough is allowed to rise too far or too short 
on one of the prelamin9.r7 risee the volume will not 
be so affected but the texture will. 

(5) In order to do a-ay with all chance of personal 
equation, it would be best for all to use nechanical 
Imeadins machines. This vnvad. eliminate all possi- 
bility of trouble from this source, but it is very 
doubtful to the writer whether any variation in the 
resutts really exists here. 

(6) All should use the same standard flour. To be 
sure of no trouble, arrangements should be made so 
that every laboratory gets its standard flour from the 
sane batch of one mill. 

It is the \7riter's opinion that if the methods of 
milling and baking as suggested in this paper and the 
precautions as just suggested in the six preceding 
rules are conscientiously taken, the greater part of 
the trouble arising from commercial laboratories in 
this line of work not checking will be overcome, and 
that a very difficult point in the grain analyst's 
duties will be cleared up, 

-44- 



'^■'irt 



