


IT) 



00 

o 

O) 



cational 






CD 
CO 



tii itiiiiif , (\'M ks Sii 1 1 if ril 1 1 i ft liil I it ft ' 




PORTRAIT. 

(Figure 19.) The expression of surprise (mouth open and lower jaw 
dropped) came as he looked up to investigate a curious noise he 
heard. (Age, twenty-three months.) 



HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 



Including Experimental Pedagogy, Child Physiology 
and Hygiene and Educational Statistics 



bg (Sitg JWctttrflse Wljtppl* 
No. 9 



How I Kept My Baby Well 

By 
ANNA G. NOYES, B. Sc. 





!alttm0n, I. . A. 

WARWICK & YORK, Inc. 
1913 






Copyright, 1913 
WARWICK & YORK, Inc. 



TO JOHN DEWEY 

whose plea for the extension of the methods of science to the com- 
monplace things of life gave me courage to believe that a mother's 
own baby might be a fit subject for scientific investigation by even 
a baby's oion mother. 



EDITOR'S PREFACE. 

The. fact that the Journal of Educational Psychol- 
ogy has defined its scope to include the consideration 
of child psychology and hygiene justifies the inclu- 
sion in the allied series of Educational Psychology 
Monographs of the material set forth in the present 
volume. 

Mrs. Noyes has, we believe, made a contribution of 
real interest to physicians and nurses, to mothers 
and fathers, and to students of childhood generally. 
The value of her work is twofold. On the one hand, 
it points the way to a method and type of observation 
that any intelligent mother can undertake with profit 
to herself and to others, and in so far disproves the 
contention of some critics of the child-study move- 
ment that observations of young children by their 
own mothers can never yield data of real value; on 
the other hand, it furnishes generalizations in the 
shape of principles or rules governing feeding, cloth- 
ing, and the general control of infant development 
that will be of direct utility to those who, like the 
author, face that vital problem how to keep the 
baby well. Mrs. Noyes has displayed commendable 
caution in drawing these generalizations. It is not 
asserted that what applied to her own baby will 



Z HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

apply invariably to any other baby, but only that it 
undoubtedly will apply to many babies, and that her 
method of attacking the problem is, at any rate, a 
method that other mothers may follow to advantage 
when confronted with the same situation. 

The conservation of human life by the reduction 
of infant mortality is a noble undertaking. The edi- 
tor joins with the author in the hope that this little 
contribution may in some measure further that 
undertaking. 

G. M. W. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE. 

Introduction 7 

CHAPTER I. THE PROBLEM 13 

CHAPTER II. NINE UNUSUAL MONTHS IN DETAIL, SIXTEEN 
OTHER MONTHS BRIEFLY SUMMARIZED. 

The Nine Unusual Months. The Sixteen Other Months. 

1. The First Month, 

(February) 21 

2. The Problem of Regurgitation, 

Second Month ( March ) 25 

3. Third Month (April) 30 

4. Fourth Month (May) 32 

5. Fifth Month (June) 33 

G. The Problem of Overfeeding, 

Sixth Month (July) 36 

7. A Perfect Month, 

Seventh Month (August) 43 

8. Eighth Month (September) 40 

9. Weaning Begun, 

Ninth Month (October) 51 

10. Weaning Completed, and a Cold, 

Tenth Month (November) 59 

11. Eleventh Month (December) G8 

12. Twelfth Month (January) 69 

13. Thirteenth Month (February) 72 

14. Fourteenth Month (March) 74 

15. Fifteenth Month (April) 75 

16. Sixteenth Month (May) 75 

17. Seventeenth Month (June) 75 

18. Eighteenth Month (July) 78 

19. Nineteenth Month (August) 79 

20. Twentieth Month (September) 79 

3 

r 



21. A Perfect Month, PAGE. 

Twenty-first Month ( October ) ............................... '. . SO 

22, Twenty-second Month (November).. 03 

23. Twenty-third Month (December) ... 93 

24. Teething. 

Twenty-fourth Month (January) ............................... 'Jo 

25. The Last Month. 

Twenty-fifth Month (February) ................................ 107 

CHAPTER III. SUMMARIES. 

1. Number of weals a <lay .......................................... 115 



2. Inten-als .................................................... 118 

3. Diet ......................................................... 1 20 

Length of time nursing .................................. 120 

Eood. 

a. Quantity ..... ................................... 120 

b. Composition ..................................... 121 

Water. Orange juice. Prune juice ....................... 120 

Medication ........................................... 130 

4. (1 ) RcffUTffitation and (2) t'omitiiifj ............................. 130 

5. Hleej) ................................................... , ...... 130 

(I. Fecrx ......................................................... 131 

( A ) . Frequency ............................................ 133 

(P.). Character ........................................... 134 

(C). Causes of irregularities .................................. 138 

(D). Remedies .............................................. 138 

7. Win ......................................................... 1 32 

(A). Regular treatment ....................................... 142 

(P). Evidences of trouble .................................... 143 

(C). Special treatment ..................................... 143 

8. Coltl ............... ......................................... 1 43 

( A ) . Frequency ............................................ 1 17 

(B). Treatment, a. General, b. Local ........................ 140 

JteJmrior .................................................... 141) 

Cri/iiif/ ....................................................... 151 

( A ) . ( 1 auses ............................................... 151 

( B) . Frequency ........................................... 152 

WehjJif <iiid other ineaxiireiiieiilH ................................. 152 

Length, in inches, of 

Body ..................................................... 1 53 

Foot ..................................................... 153 

4 



Breadth, PAGE. 

Fronto-occipetal, ( of Head, in inches . 153 

Occipito mental, ) 

Breadth, in inches, of 

Shoulders 153 

Chest 153 

Ninth rib 153 

Hips 153 

Depth, in inches, of 

Chest 153 

Abdomen 153 

Circumferential measurements, in centimeters, of 

Head 153 

Neck 153 

Chest 153 

Ninth rib 153 

Waist, and 153 

Hips 153 

12. Physical achievements 155 

13. Teething ICO* 

14. Remarks. 

(A). Vocabulary of motions and words 1(51 

(B). Clothing 1(51) 

(C) . Exercise 177 

(D). Sucking the thumb 177 

(E). Heritage 179 

CHAPTER IV. A FINAL WORD... . 181 



INTEODUCTION. 

Let me say at the outset that I am fully aware that 
this is a record of but one baby, and that, of course, 
no sweeping generalizations as to baby culture can 
be made from this one case. Yet many have .felt it 
their duty to warn me that I cannot write a book on 
how to bring up babies because I have had "good 
luck," as they say, with one. 

But although one case does not permit me to gen- 
eralize, it does allow me to be suspicious. And one 
thing about which I am suspicious is that tables of 
averages, whether of food or weight or growth, are 
likely to be misleading guides to a mother in caring 
for her one special case, because the baby is not 
labeled at the outset as to which side of the average 
he will fall. And to try to feed a baby up or down 
to an average diet is as absurd as to try to make any 
one horse pull up or down to the efficiency of the 
average horse. Doctors disregard averages in pre- 
scribing for a particular case, and they seriously 
intend that mothers should. The one case under con- 
sideration is the one which the doctor or the mother 
studies. If too much importance is attached to aver- 
ages, points in the condition of the baby in question 
are likely to be overlooked. And the mother's prob- 
lem is to find out just what are the most important 



8 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

facts to be kept in mind in diagnosing her particular 
case. 

Now, there is one thing that every doctor and 
nurse and mother with whom I have had opportunity 
to discuss this matter admits at once, and that is that 
ivliat will keep a l)aby well is the treatment for that 
baby. Could anything he plainer than that? Our 
grandmothers knew it and practiced it before tabl-es 
of averages were so much as dreamed of. 

And how is one to know when a baby is well 1 Any 
unprejudiced, normal person could, after a few mo- 
ments for reflection, sum up the evidences of health 
in a baby : namely, pink cheeks ; a clean, red tongue ; 
soft, smooth skin, unbroken by pimples or roughness ; 
long, peaceful naps ; freedom from colds ; agility of 
movement ; the eye sparkling and the cornea a blue 
white; a keen and regular appetite; all food thor- 
oughly digested (MS shown by a smooth and yellow 
feces) ; steady growth, and a happy, contented dispo- 
sion. All these are readily admitted to be some of 
the evidences of good health in a baby. 

If these signs spell health, then the disappearance 
of them signifies that health is in danger. If cheeks 
turn pale and the clear blue-white of the eye becomes 
yellowish, if the skin grows rough or blotched, and 
if bodily movements become listless, if the food is 
thrown up and the excreta are foul, and if the weight 
is not increasing and the baby is irritable, all these 
changes must be noted, not necessarily with alarm, 
but frankly and to the full extent of their importance. 

And once the habit is established of noticing and 
admitting these little lapses, then must follow the 
search for the mischief-maker. 



INTRODUCTION 9 

I believe the investigation should begin with the 
diet. If that is rightly managed, the cause of the 
trouble can usually be located at once and removed. 
And that is what I studied to do. If trouble so much 
as peeped out, I was after the cause of it. I elimi- 
nated three possible causes of disturbance in the air 
and water and clothing, by seeing to it that the air 
was fresh and stirring, and that the water had been 
boiled, cooled and warmed again before drinking, and 
that the clothing was comfortable and hygienic. In 
this way the mischief-maker could readily be cor- 
nered in the only thing (barring accidents and con- 
tagious diseases) that remained the food. 

Little by little, I found where to look for evidences 
of wrong feeding. To begin with, I became very sus- 
picious that throwing up was a sign of overfeeding. 
< ' Everybody " says that "all babies vomit." But 
why do they! I wondered. And so as long as my 
baby continued to regurgitate, with my eye on the 
scales, watching his weight, I kept cutting down the 
quantity of food and increasing the intervals, until 
at one time he was nursing one-sixth the time which 
Holt prescribes. But as the scales continued to rise 
and the baby kept well, I knew I was on the right 
track. 

But sometimes I found the stomach would pass 
food which the intestines could not handle, and so I 
found another danger signal in the excreta. When I 
had learned by constant observation and consultation 
with a doctor what good and bad excreta were, they 
proved to be the most reliable evidences that the diet 
was right or wrong. And I soon came to feel that 
in the intestines was to be found a reliable guide in 



10 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

maintaining the baby's hea,lth. Irregularities in the 
excreta demanded a change in the diet. Frequently 
the change in diet came soon enough and was near 
enough right to restore the evidences of health, but 
sometimes it was too late, and other symptoms of 
trouble would appear in a pimple or a white tongue, 
pale cheeks or a cold. After which, the proper salve 
or a hot bath had to be given to supplement the work 
of the delayed change in the diet. 

In general, if the digestive tract had been given no 
food beyond its capacity, and if the baby were gain- 
ing in weight and otherwise well and happy, then I 
made no changes in the diet. Or if, immediately upon 
giving evidence that too difficult or too big a task had 
been expected of the intestines, a rest from food fol- 
lowed, or a change was made to what I had found out 
the intestines could handle successfully; then, bar- 
ring accidents, no further complications, fevers, 
sores, crossnesses, and so on, had a chance to make 
headway. But failure to reckon with the first evi- 
dences of indigestion meant that other evidences 
(pimples, a cold, or even a fever) turned up later. 
My baby never got so far as colic, nor has he had any 
contagious disease. 

I spared myself no pains in measuring food, as I 
found that an excess of even a very small amount of 
milk or cream or barley or oatmeal would upset the 
digestion. 

Teething, the dread of all mothers, proved in this 
case, too, to be a disturbing factor, and often my 
best laid plans would "gang agley" apparently for 
no other reason than that digestive processes were 
upset by teething pains. At such times all I could do 



INTRODTJuriO:N 

was to mollify the pain with tannic acid and be espe- 
cially careful about diet. And I conscientiously 
avoided making teething the scapegoat for all baby 
troubles. 

In a word, this was my clue to keep the baby well 
so that he could not get sick. 

And what comment do the doctors make upon this 
plan of caring for a baby? One doctor, who ought 
to know what he is talking about, said to me : " Well, 
if all mothers cared for their babies in this way, 
where should we come in?" 

This I should call the common sense way of caring 
for a baby, and it is, of course, the way in which many 
mothers have already brought up their babies. But 1 
cannot find that any one of them has stated the prob- 
lem consciously, or at least, stated it for publication, 
or has any data to offer, in the shape of records, as 
to how the plan worked, even in one case. 

And this is all I claim to have done. / have a com- 
plete record of one baby who was kept well for two 
years by not being allowed to gel sick. 

The thing to do next is to follow this record with 
the records of, say, fifty babies. In addition to the 
charts of weight, of growth and of dietaries, which 
this further study would evolve, charts should be 
made to show the characteristics of the normal and 
of the abnormal feces, and the probable causes of the 
disturbances in the latter. I believe that these latter 
charts, in the hands of an intelligent mother, would 
be a greater help to her in checking up a dietary than 
charts of average amounts of food, of average 
growth and average development, however valuable 
these may be. For the evidences of health are the 



12 HOW I KEPT Mi j>AY WELL 

same for all babies, but the amount of food any indi- 
vidual baby can handle, the weight any individual 
baby can add and the rapidity with which any indi- 
vidual baby can grow may, and do, vary considerably. 

In other words, a diet checked up by what are 
known to be constant elements is more likely to come 
out right than when checked up by varying ones. Or, 
put in another way, the changing conditions of a 
baby's body are the best guides to his diet. With the 
diet properly regulated, increasing weight and 
growth and strength will follow as a matter of course. 
To postpone attention to a baby's diet until he has 
the colic or begins to lose weight may be to wait too 
long. There are earlier signals of trouble than loss 
of weight or cessation of growth. As Dr. Holt says, 
again and again, "conditions present are the best 
guide." 

My own conclusion is that the keynote in maintain- 
ing a baby's health, will be found (after fresh air, 
pure water and hygienic clothing have been secured) 
in keeping the whole digestive tract in perfect order. 

At any rate, it will do no harm for a mother to try 
to keep her baby well. 



CHAPTER I. 
THE PROBLEM. 

To begin with, like almost every other mother with 
her first baby, 1 was a novice at baby culture. There 
is no school which a prospective mother may attend 
where she may try her hand at baby-raising* under 
expert supervision. Were she "going in" for 
chickens or pigs, there would be schools, universities 
and government pamphlets galore at her service, but 
when she would raise only a human baby, universi- 
ties and government bureaus are silent.* 

I cannot recall any particular instruction given me 
during my academic life that so much as intimated 
that the problem of baby-raising existed in the world. 
But I had learned, though late in my college career, 
that there was such a thing as inductive thinking, 
and armed with the latter power, I was prepared to 
attack the former problem. 

I had little information on hand as to the facts in 
my particular problem, but I did know how to look it 
squarely in the face, as it were, and I never hesitated, 
when I found myself confronted with questions that 
demanded knowledge which I did not have, to go to 
someone I thought ought to have it and ask for it. 



* Since this paragraph was written, and before the book was published, 
The School of Mothercraft was established in New York City. 

13 



14 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

Nor did I grasp the whole of the problem during 
the first hour or day or week, nor can I remember 
just when I clearly stated the problem to myself, but 
it was about the sixth or seventh week that things 
began shaping themselves systematically in my 
mind. 

There were several contributing factors tending to 
bring this about. For instance, Dr. Holt's Care and 
Feeding of Children I kept at my right hand; the 
nurses and physicians at the hospital were patient 
and considerate with my incessant questioning; Pro- 
fessor Chittenden of Yale answered a query ; Dr. von 
Someren of Venice, through Mrs. von Someren, con- 
firmed a suspicion ; two friends who were physicians 
assured me I was on the right track, and even a com- 
mon-sense person like my mother had to admit that 
I could not go far wrong in continuing as I had be- 
gun. And so, little by little, I found I was getting 
the whole problem stated. And, though I soon saw 
that in many details there were likely to arise any 
number of complications, yet, putting it in a word, 
the problem finally resolved itself thus: How can 1 
maintain my looby in health? 

By the seventh week baby-culture, merely as a 
problem, had become so interesting that I began 
keeping records, at first merely with the idea of using 
them for reference in this one case, but later because 
I hoped they might throw light on the whole problem 
of caring for a baby. As new developments fol- 
lowed, other items had to be noted, so that, the items 
that now seem to me to be necessary for considera- 
tion in planning and recording a baby's condition, 
diet and treatment, together with the abbreviations 
which I have used, are the following : 



THE PEOBLEM 15 

1. Age, in years (Y), months (M), weeks (W) and days (D). 

2. Intervals between meals, in hours and fractions of an hour. 

3. Diet. 

( 1 ) . Length of time nursing, in minutes. 
(2). Food. 

a. Quantity. 

b. Composition. 

(3). Water, orange juice, prune juice, in tablespoonfuls 
(tbs.), later in ounces (oz.). 

(4). Medication. 
4. 

(1). Regurgltation (food which has not yet been chem- 
ically altered in the stomach thrown up very soon 
after eating), in tbs. 

(2). Vomiting (food thrown up later which has been 

made acid in the stomach), in tbs. 

5. Sleep, length of time, in hours and fractions of an hour. 
0. Feces. 

(1). Time. 

(2). Character: smooth (S) ; curdled (C) ; yellow 
(Y) ; green (G) ; yellowish-green (YG) ; green- 
ish-yellow (GY) ; loose (L) ; constipated (Co.). 
The abbreviations S., C., Y. and G. were printed 
large or small, according as much or little had to 
be designated. For instance, if the feces were 
only slightly curdled, a small "c" was used, if 
badly curdled, a large "C," and so on. To indicate 
when the feces was deposited in a chamber, a 
ring was drawn around the letters, e. g., SY 
(with ring around) means that the feces was 
smooth and yellow and was deposited in a 
chamber. 

(3). Causes of irregularities. 

(4). Remedies. 

7. Condition of skin: rash (R) ; pimple (P) ; other irregulari- 

ties. Medication. 

8. Cold. 

(1). Length of time. 
(2). Treatment. 

9. Behavior: excellent (1) ; good (2) ; restless (3) ; cross (4). 

10. Crying. 

(1). Cause. 

(2). Time, in minutes. 

11. Weight and other measurements. 

12. Physical achievements. 

13. Teething. 

14. General remarks. 



16 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

I recorded hiccoughs, but I found that they so con- 
tradicted other evidences of good and bad digestion 
that they furnished me no guide in prescribing his 
diet. He hiccoughed when he was so full that he was 
regurgitating, and also when he had eaten little, both 
before meals and after meals, on full stomachs and 
empty ones, so I never did ascertain the conditions 
that were essential in hiccoughing. As a matter of 
fact, the immediate cause is, I believe, not known 
precisely. I have not included this record in the 
charts, as it has not influenced the baby's treatment. 
Tie had no long attacks of hiccoughs. Water or a few 
grains of sugar would sometimes stop them when 
they did occur, or they would cease of themselves. 

Only occasionally did I notice that his tongue was 
whitish, but T have kept no record of its appearance 
from day to day, though I know it is a reliable index 
of intestinal conditions. 

And only on two occasions when he had a fever- 
did 1 note the temperature. 

So at the beginning of the seventh week I prepared 
sheets as shown below, on which I recorded all those 
matters that related to his physical condition and 
treatment and that I felt were significant for dailv 



guidance : 



THE PKOBLEM 17 



O O O C O CO 



. 

CO (N (MT-ICO COCO 
MOIAUqag ^^ THTHTH THTH 



0) 

c o . 



pioo o c ooo oo 

^~ I 

Tr" ^ 

JO UOi;iplI03 .S^ 3 333 3^ ^ 



Gfj 
Cl 

I 5 

'sqSnooDjn ^ 3 -co c o ,- 

*2 ** > o 



r/.iv y- 

-O ^D ! ^ r* 

HH Hoo oH o 



^ a, 
* 
^ ** 

aiTITX I' CO Cl <?1 !M 01 CO OJ 



naaAUoq siBA.TaiiiT ^ ^oi >o i $ , 

00 w ci -h co co 



S 

a -9" w 

I 



18 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

From these record sheets the charts were later 
made out. Other items were added to these sheets 
from time to time as other things had to be recorded, 
as when artificial food was given, or orange juice, or 
water, etc. 

A word concerning the accuracy of the data on the 
charts : 

The length of time spent at the breast I noted by 
the watch. I began letting him rest every alternate 
15 seconds while nursing, but I soon found I wanted 
my eyes for something else, so I counted 5, 10 or 1.5, 
depending upon his hunger or indifference, over and 
over again, and generally, by the way, set the counts 
to music, or allowed him to nurse and rest at alter- 
nating rythmic measures. 

The amounts regurgitated and vomited I could not 
measure because they were deposited on absorbent 
materials, so I had to estimate them as accurately as 
possible. The number of times vomited or regurgi- 
tated is, of course, exact, as I was with him practi- 
cally all of the time and noted each emission. 

The fact that 1 was working to correct the diet by 
the feces led me to note their frequency, consistency 
and color very conscientiously. 

I found no simple way of noting the various skin 
troubles, but I have recorded every one that I noted, 
and as I was continually searching the skin for evi- 
dence of trouble, I believe I saw every pimple, patch 
of roughness or other irregularity that occurred. 

The record of the baby's behavior (1, 2, 3 or 4) is 
particularly likely to be vitiated by personal preju- 
dice. So knowing what a fond mother's heart may 
incline her to say of even a very cross baby (the mis- 



THE PKOBLEM 19 

takes are not made the other way), I hit upon the 
plan of checking the behavior record by noting the 
frequency and duration of every spell of crying. 
There is a record for every whimper, though I did 
not always note duration of crying by the watch; 
generally I estimated it, and I tried to estimate 
neither too liberally nor too sparingly. 

The data for the charts showing the growth were 
taken by Dr. William McCastline of Teachers Col- 
lege, Columbia University. 

Not much of the data has been verified or is veri- 
fiable by recourse to other observers than the baby's 
parents. Two doctors, Dr. McCastline and Dr. Wil- 
liam E. Caldwell of New York University (the latter 
of whom had the case at the Manhattan Maternity 
Hospital), have beei\ consulted from time to time and 
have kept in touch with the baby. Dr. McCastline 
has seen him once a month since he was six months 
old to take his measurements and give advice for the 
next month's treatment. Dr. Caldwell was called in 
twice, once when the baby had a slight fever and 
again when he had a faint rash ; but, aside from that, 
has seen him about every two months. These two 
physicians can verify what is verifiable in the charts 
and records. The accompanying photographs* are 
also contributions as verification. 

The data in this book represent, therefore, a faith- 
ful record of the physical development of a healthy 
baby. 



*For the numerous photographs throughout the book, credit is 
to be given to my husband, Mr. William Noyes. They are the 
gleanings of a much larger number that were taken, and of them- 
selves represent a work of considerable thought and infinite pa- 
tieuce. 



CHAPTER II. 
NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL. 

The charts and complete records for the 25 months 
were kept and prepared for publication, but as I 
found history had repeated itself so frequently dur- 
ing this period, I believed the essentials in the case 
could best be gleaned from a complete history of two 
perfect months and of those other months in which 
the typical problems were most difficult to handle, 
with the remaining months treated summarily. 

With this idea in mind, I have selected the follow- 
ing nine months for complete presentation: the first 
and the last months mark the beginning and the 
end of the study; then two of the most perfect 
months, the seventh and twenty-first, the one before 
and the other after weaning; and a group of five 
months, of which each contained a particular prob- 
lem, as follows: the second month, the problem of 
regurgitation, the sixth month, of overfeeding, the 
ninth and tenth months, of weaning and a cold, and 
the twenty-fourth month, that of teething. 

The conclusions in Chapter III are, however, 
drawn from the data of all 25 months. 



21 




22 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL' 23 

1. From the Thirteenth to the Seventeenth Days. 
(February.) (See Chart I.) 

While at the hospital I made a few notes (from 
thirteenth to seventeenth days), and these, together 
with some of the record compiled there by the nurses 
and doctors, give a clue to the feeding and conduct of 
all the first days and make a basis of comparison for 
the later weeks. 

At the hospital I saw the baby during the nursing 
period only, and hence the record (see Chart I, p. 22) 
is necessarily incomplete, though correct as far as it 
goes. For instance, in the matter of regurgitation, 
what is recorded is only what I saw while the baby 
was with me. I made no record of what happened 
while he was away and none was available later when 
I asked for it, though the general impression of the 
attending physician, Dr. W. E. Caldwell, is that he 
regurgitated or vomited very little. Nor do I know 
how much he slept. I noted only his falling asleep 
when brought to me. (See chart.) 

As there were no records at the hospital of dis- 
turbances other than two curdled greenish-yellow 
feces on the seventeenth day and a slight cold in the 
head on the same day, the conclusion is that all else 
was normal and well. The weights and measure- 
ments taken there are recorded on their proper 
charts. 

But my skepticism as to the amount of food a baby 
should be allowed began there at the hospital and 
was encouraged by Dr. Caldwell and the head nurse, 
Miss Coucher, and they permitted me to use my own 
judgment as to the length of time I should nurse the 



24 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

baby. The hospital regulation was 20 minutes at the 
breast, 10 times a day, at intervals of two hours, 
excepting one long interval of six hours, from 10.30 
P. M. to 4.30 A. M. The interval was, of course, 
a matter not to be interfered with at the hospital, but 
the amount could be, and it was determined by the 
baby's inclination. The result was that it averaged 
in those five days about 12 instead of 20 minutes.* 
Even with that reduction, he did regurgitate, though 
the amount averaged less than half a tablespoonful 
for the time he was with me. At one time he regurgi- 
tated four times during the one nursing, going back 
to nurse each time, but finally discontinuing of his 
own accord. (See Chart I, fourteenth day.) 



*In noting comparisons, I have not forgotten that the milk flows 
from the breast more freely at the beginning than at the end of 
a nursing period, which would mean that the time spent and the 
quantity of milk secured do not keep up an equal ratio throughout 
a period. In other words, a given time spent in the beginning se- 
cures more milk than an equal amount of time spent at the end. 
So when the difference in time is stated the difference in amount is 
not so great as it at first appears. Furthermore, I am told that 
the rapidity with which milk Hows varies greatly among women. 
Mine came freely, spurting out at the beginning of a nursing pe- 
riod in jets, like water from a sprinkler. After a while, it would 
ooze out in drops. Whereas with some women the milk flows so 
slowly that the baby often tires of the attempt and falls asleep 
before getting enough milk. It would seem as if this baby secured 
a generous supply in a short time. This makes the difference in 
time misleading as to quantity. However, this was the only way 
I had to record the amount, and it seems to be the customary way 
of considering it. and it is fairly accurate for purposes of com- 
parison in this case, (weighing the baby before and after nursing 
would give an accurate measure of the quantity taken). An error 
would be made, however, if quantities were computed in direct 
ratio to these intervals of time. For instance, if I fed my baby 
for ten minutes where Holt advised twenty minutes, it would not 
follow that I was feeding my baby half the amount Holt pre- 
scribed. 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 25 

2. From Seven Weeks Three Days Through Eight 
Weeks Three Days. (March.) (See Chart II.) 

After coining home from the hospital I assumed 
full charge of the baby. I was only too conscious of 
my ignorance on the subject, but I faced the problem 
devotedly, conscientiously and with docility. 

One of the first perplexities was the problem of 
regurgitation. Although I was feeding my baby 
much less than the accepted standard, he continued to 
regurgitate. Now, my common sense told me that 
this was evidence that he was getting too much food. 
Moreover, Holt said that if a baby regurgitated it 
was evidence of overfeeding, and advised that the 
amount of food be reduced at each meal, and the in- 
terval between meals lengthened. But I had been 
doing this, and to such an extent that I feared the 
baby was not getting enough. By the seventh week 
he was having about seven feedings a day, of about 
four minutes each, whereas Holt advises through 
the seventh week eight feedings a day of not more 
than 20 minutes. Also, in the opinion of almost all 
the nurses, doctors and mothers with whom I talked, 
little importance was to be attached to a baby's re- 
gurgitations. I was even told that these were an 
evidence of health ! On the other hand, the dangers 
of overfeeding have recently oeen made so clear by 
modern dieticians, that I was prepared to take any 
step that would keep the baby from that pitfall. 

But as the proof of the reeding must always be 
found in the one fed, regardless, I believe, of any 
tables that have as yet been compiled, and as my 
baby was gaining in weight, was sleeping well and 




20 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL Z.f 

was happy, these were sufficient proof that his diet 
could not be far wrong. So, on the whole, I was con- 
vinced that I should try to keep regurgitation down 
to the lowest possible point, or even try to eliminate 
it altogether, provided, always, that his general vital- 
ity did not thereby become lowered. 

I believe I have never spent more thought over any 
matter that has come up to me for solution, than I did 
over this apparently simple one of bow much to feed 
this baby during these lirst weeks. For, as I said 
before, I felt that the controlling factor in his health 
lay in keeping all his digestive operations in perfect 
condition and under my control, and as I had found 
no specific amount or time set down as an absolute 
guide, I was forced to weigh advice and general aver- 
ages, on the one hand, with "conditions present," as 
Holt says, on the other, and then to decide what 
would be best for this particular case. 

The result was that during the week before lie was 
two months old (seven weeks three days to eight 
weeks three days), which was the time during which 
the first record was kept, I noted the following: 

I. BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. The baby 
smiled, and even laughed to us, and, aside from a 
slight rash, seemed perfectly well, though he was eat- 
ing, according to duration of nursing, only one-sixth 
as much as Holt prescribes. 

II. DETAILS. ( See Chart II. ) 

1. Number of meals a day. He was nursing an 
average of six and one-half times a day (Holt ad- 
vises eight). 

2. Intervals between meals. The long interval 
(five and two- thirds hours) fell short one-third an 



28 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

hour of the hospital regulation, while the short inter- 
val (three and three-quarters hours) increased one 
and three-quarters hours over the hospital time of 
the first weeks. I found it worked fairly well to let 
his inclination select the long interval rather than to 
try to insist upon its occurrence between certain 
hours, as 10 A. M. and 4 P. M., for instance. While 
keeping in mind what were the most convenient hours 
for me to nurse him, I was guided as well by his con- 
dition of hunger or sleepiness. 1 did not wake him 
to feed him, nor, if he seemed hungry after waking, 
did I make him wait until a certain time. 

3. Diet. (Length of time nursing.) The average 
length of time actually nursing was four and two- 
fifths minutes, though he spent an average of eight 
and one-half minutes at the breast. To take the pre- 
caution of not letting him eat too fast, I counted 15 
over and over, letting him nurse during one count 
and rest during the next, etc., so although he was at 
the breast 10 minutes, for instance, he was actually 
nursing only five minutes of that time. The chart 
shows a test made on the eighth week, second day, at 
which time he was allowed to nurse for 10 minutes 
without resting. After this feeding he regurgitated 
four tablespoonfuls, the most thrown up at one time 
that week.* 

4. Re gurgitation and Vomiting. He regurgitated 
34 times, an average of one and three-quarters tbs. 
(in all, 58 tbs.), and vomited nine times, an average 



*But the experiment, however, is of little value, since two fac- 
tors instead of one were experimented with. I not only increased 
the quantity, but let him nurse without resting. Had I done either 
one alone, the test would have been more significant. 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 29 

of two-thirds tbs. (in all, six tbs.), and I still wonder 
if it would have been possible to have eliminated even 
that amount. 

5. Sleep. He was sleeping soundly three-quar- 
ters of the total time. The line at the right of the 
interval line on the chart indicates the length of time 
asleep during that interval. 

6. Feces. The feces were without exception yel- 
low, and, I think, smooth (though I did not begin to 
record the latter fact until the ninth week), and the 
interval between the feces averaged 32 hours. 

7. Skin. A slight rash, lasting most of this week, 
was the only disorder noted in the skin. 

8. Cold. There was no sign of a cold, and he was 
sleeping out-of-doors most of the time. 

9. Behavior. His behavior (1.4) averaged about 
half-way between excellent and good, inclining 
toward excellent. 

10. Crying. He cried at intervals an average of 
about six minutes a day. 

11. Weight. He Aveighed 12 pounds, which was 
one and one-half pounds heavier than the Holt av- 
erage. 

12. Physical achievements. I was quite satisfied 
as to his strength, for he held up his head, as shown 
in the photograph (p. 176, Plate I, No. 2), from the 
fourth week,, and the Holt babies are not supposed to 
accomplish that feat until the fourth month, though 
they often do, he says, during the third month. 



?Hft 






i, i 

i I 






J.JC 



y-f- ii 



fj-f it 















1.4 

| -J; 



c x; 



a 
G 




Fig. 1. He liked to be held upside down. (Age, four 
months.) 



31 




H . 

<D 



p B 



-: - E -O 



o o 
"o .S 




es ^ 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 33 

3. Third Month. (April.) (See Chart III.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. The treatment of 
the preceding month was continued. The baby was 
well, even exuberant. He frequently laughed aloud 
to us, and had outstripped by three pounds the Holt 
average for weight. 

4. Fourth Month. (May.) (See Chart IV.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. This fourth month 
was a phenomenal one. He was eating less fre- 
quently and for a shorter time, while gaining stead- 
ily in weight and strength. By the fifteenth week he 
sat up alone the first time for about two minutes 
(Holt's time for this is about the seventh or eighth 
month). He was also reaching out to handle things, 
and could hang suspended from his hands, and en- 
joyed being held upside down. (See Fig. 1.) 

5. Fifth Month. (June.) (See Chart V and Fig. 2.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. Though eating 
less, he regurgitated more, his flesh gave evidence of 
slight trouble, and the feces were not so good, all of 
which may be accounted for by the excessive amount 
of olive oil I had eaten. At any rate, upon my dis- 
continuing the use of it, these troubles disappeared. 
He was greeting us with a smile (see Fig. 3) and 
gurgle, and trying to pull himself up by any stick or 
finger within reach, and frequently was succeeding. 
He exercised on the horizontal bar (a broom handle) 
fastened in his "gymnasium" (bassinet). 



- >> 




11 




Fig. 2. His first portrait. (Ago, four 
and a quarter months.) 



35 



36 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

6. Sixth Month. (July.} (See Chart VI and Pig. 4.) 
The Problem of Overfeeding. 

I. BKIEF SUMMARY or THE MONTH. This month 
records the first disturbance that gave us any anxi- 
ety. The trouble started evidently when my milk 
began running less vigorously, and lasted for about 
one arid one-half weeks (twenty-second week, second 
day, to twenty-third week, fifth day). For the first 
six days he was restless, more wakeful than usual, 
and seemed to have difficulty in getting sufficient 
food. On the twenty-third week, third day, in order 
to stimulate the flow of milk, following the doctor's 
directions, I began to eat cornmeal porridge, three 
times a day, if possible, in addition to the other regu- 
lar food, and to drink plenty of liquids. I did not note 
when I began these practices, but from one cause or 
another, the milk began flowing in sufficient quantity, 
and before I realized it the baby was obviously over- 
fed. I found this out one evening when he was rest- 
less, and I kept trying again and again to nurse him. 
I thought he kept turning from the breast because he 
could get nothing, whereas it must have been because 
he had had too much. Finally, after we had spent a 
night of little sleeping and much anxiety, and hoping 
that the fresh air would put him to sleep, I took him 
to the roof of our apartment. It was about 4 o'clock 
and just light enough so I could see him clearly, and 
then I realized why he had been so restless. His face 
was swollen, particularly about the eyes, and there 
was a faint rash over the stomach, which were all the 
evidences I wanted to prove that he had been over- 
fed. However, we both slept for about three hours, 




Fig. 3. "If Moses supposes his toeses are roses' 
brings forth peals of laughter. (Age, four and a 
half months.) 



37 



38 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

and light feeding through the day restored normal 
conditions. After that the supply of milk was suffi- 
cient again for a while. This irregularity disturbed 
the steady progress of the averages, and the feces 
and skin also showed signs of disorder, though lie 
continued to gain in weight and to grow stronger. 
II. DETAILS. (See Chart VI, p. 40.) 

1. Number of meals a day. From six meals a day 
the increase was made to between seven and eight, 
or to seven meals a day, if we omit two days when he 
was fed 11 and 10 meals, respectively. 

2. Intervals betireen meals. The intervals be- 
tween meals received a decided setback this month. 
Of the long periods there were : 

10 iiitoivals .") hours or over. 
4 



10 

1 interval 11 



The 34 long periods averaged about seven and one- 
half hours, about one hour less than last month, and 
the 179 short intervals averaged two and two-thirds 
hours, one-third of an hour less than previous month. 

3. Diet. The length of time at the breast and 
nursing were increased from 7 to 7.85 minutes and 
from 3 1 / 1 > to 5 minutes. 

Water. An average amount of two and one- 
lialf ounces of warm water a day was given. 

4. Re-gurgitation and vomiting. He ate for a 
longer time than last month, and regurgitated less, 
50 times, average one-half tbs. (25 tbs. in all; pre- 
vious month 44 tbs.), but vomited more, 68 times, 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 39 

average two-thirds tbs. (44 tbs. in all; previous 
month 31 tbs.). 

5. Sleep. He was sleeping 56% of the total time 
(HVo% less than during the previous month). The 
average was brought down before that night of over- 
feeding, at which time he was probably hungry. 

6. Feces. The feces came one in 25 hours. 
Twelve of 29 were smooth and yellow; nine were 
caught in the chamber. The disturbances were so 
slight that I made no -change in the quantity of food 
eaten, but only tried to put myself in better con- 
dition. Five were slightly curdled; seven were 
slightly greenish; three were bright yellow (evidence 
of excessive fat, and as they came after I had been 
eating the cornmeal it was in all probability the corn- 
meal that made my milk too fat) ; six were both cur- 
dled and greenish, two of which were traced directly 
to my condition (I had a fever, and my digestive ap- 
paratus was impaired, probably from overeating) ; 
one was curdled, greenish and partly slimy. This 
was a notoriously hot month, and I have thought that 
possibly some of these irregularities in the feces were 
caused indirectly by the heat. During the period of 
overfeeding, strange as it seemed to me, the feces 
were perfect. The only way I can account for this is 
that the extra water and other liquid food I was tak- 
ing may have changed my milk sufficiently to have 
affected his feces favorably. 

7. Skin. His skin was not in so good condition 
before as after the two bad days. One way of ac- 
counting for this was the increased amount of water 
I gave him and the increased amount of liquids I 
took during the second half of the month. Four 









|^ 



I 






Q S a a 






^1 



. 



-S e 



1-1 " 



a 6 5 




Fig. 4. A portrait study. (Age, 
five and three-quarter months.) 



41 



42 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

times in the first half of the month a rash appeared 
and lasted from one to two days, but these rashes 
occurred on very hot, humid days when there was no 
breeze stirring to keep the skin dry. He also had salt 
baths, one or two a day, according' to the weather and 
his condition. They seemed to prevent or alleviate 
the rash. His cheeks were red and rough, and evi- 
dently itched, as lie would scratch them and make 
them sore, so that scabs formed. During the second 
half of the month there was no redness, but only the 
dry scabs and scratches, and the scalp was a little 
dry. 

8. Cold. Xo sign of a cold appeared during the 
month. 

9. Bchai'ior. His behavior averaged half-way 
between excellent and good. It was affected unfa- 
vorably first by underfeeding, then by overfeeding. 
The first time that he showed that he could be cross 
was during those two off days. 

10. Crying. He cried very little, on an average 
only five and one-third minutes a day, while about 
half of all the crying occurred during the week and 
a half of wrong foci ling. 

11. Weight. He weighed 18U. pounds on the 
twenty-fourth week, second day, about two and one- 
half pounds ahead of the Holt average, and a gain of 
one and one-half pounds over last month. 

12. Physical achievements. From the twenty- 
second to the twenty-third week ho was sitting up 
alone for from throe to live minutes. (See p. 17(5, 
Plate I, Fig. (j.) On the twenty-third week, second 
day, he had his first ride out-of-doors in his carriage. 
lie was out for an hour and sat im alone all that time. 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 43 

(See photo, p. 176, Plate I, No. 11.) On the twenty- 
third week, fifth day, when I put my fingers in front 
of him he grasped them and drew himself up alone. 
He kicks and splashes in his tub. 

13. Remarks. I had been neglecting to give him 
sufficient water to drink. The attack of indigestion 
brought me to my senses, and during the second half 
of the month he had, on an average, 13 teaspoonfuls 
of warm water daily. The effects on the skin are 
noted above. 

7. Seventh Month. (August.} (See Chart VII, 

Fig. 5.) 

An Almost Perfect Month. 

I. BKIEF SUMMARY or THE MONTH. This month 
records no serious setbacks, but in general steady 
progress. From the irregularities of underfeeding 
and overfeeding of the sixth month there was a re 
turn to more normal averages. He stood alone this 
month. 

II. DETAILS. (See Chart VII, p. 44.) 

1. Number of meals a day. The number of meals 
a day was reduced from seven and one-half to five 
and one-half; the fourth month had been about six. 

2. Intervals between meals. During the fifth 
month the long interval between meals had been re- 
duced three-quarters of an hour, but during this 
month jumped ahead one and two-fifths hours more 
than that of the fifth month and two and two fifths 
more than that of the sixth month, and was now 10 
hours. The short interval was also shortened one- 
third of an hour during the sixth month, but was now 



- o> 




OH <_J i> 

1 !*! 

^ 






O ^ <U -M 

si - s ?i 



O3 

O ^ 

'O rt 









O ^ 

4J O 




Fig. 5. "This little pig went to market." (Age, six and 
three-quarter months.) 



45 



46 



HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 



back to the record of the fifth month (three hours). 
There was a decided increase in the length of long 
periods : 

'.\ intervals were " hours or a little over. 

'2 "7 

C " 8 

2 

7 10 

it 11 

4 ll> 

* 

The 33 long periods averaged 10 hours, the 13(5 
short periods three hours. 

3. Diet. The time spent at the breast was nine 
and one-sixth minutes, one and two-fifths minutes 
longer than the previous month, and the time spent 
nursing was seven minutes, two minutes longer than 
the previous month. He had an average of six and 
one-half teaspoonsful of warm water a day. 

4. Re gurgitation and vomiting. How the quan- 
tities of food eaten compared I do not know, but 
though the time spent inbibing was longer, the 
amount regurgitated was less 27 times, average 
one-third tbs., or nine tbs. in all (previous month 25 
tbs.). And there also was a reduction in the amount 
vomited 49 times, average one-half tbs., or 24 1 /.* tbs. 
in all (previous month 44 tbs.). So whether the 
quantity was more or less, lie was digesting it better. 

5. Sleep. He slept about 60% of the entire day, 
an improvement of 3% on last month's record. He 
generally stayed awake after two of the day-time 
feedings. 

6. Feces. Of 21 feces in 31 days (one movement 
in 36 hours), nine, or three-sevenths of the total, 
were perfect. Only three were caught in the chain- 




Fig. 6. "Auto-cducatiou" begun. This desire to stand alone is 
his own notion. (Age, six and a half months.) 



48 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

ber; not so good a record as previous month, which 
was 9 out of 29. Six were slightly greenish; five 
were both slightly curdled and greenish, and one was 
a yellowish- green. I could not trace the cause of 
these irregularities, but they were very slight, and 
disappeared without giving any further trouble. It 
was about this time that I noticed that the movements 
after the long intervals were quite likely to be per- 
fect. Six of the nine perfect feces of this month came 
after an interval of about two days. 

7. Skin. The skin was in good condition all the 
month, except for a little soreness of the scalp for the 
first week and a slight rash on three days, and for a 
little dryness of the flesh on two days, which was 
quickly remedied with white vaseline. 

8. Cold. Xo cold symptoms appeared during the 
month. 

9. Behavior. In behavior he came within one- 
eighth of being excellent. 

10. Crying. On six occasions I am sure he cried 
for company (Chart VII, " F") after he had been put 
to bed. However, he was not taken up nor talked to, 
but was allowed to "cry it out" and to go to sleep, 
which he did in from 5 to 15 minutes. Even counting 
in these periods, he cried on an average of only five 
minutes a day. 

11. Wei glit. He weighed 18.7 pounds, about two 
and one-half pounds above the Holt average. 

12. Pliyxical (icliierente-utfi. As for his physical 
development, he was making rapid progress. The 
day he was six mouths old, as he lay on his back in 
his basket (as in PI. I, No. 14, p. 176), he kicked a tin 
pan for about an hour almost steadily. On the twen- 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 49 

ty-seventh week, second day, lie stood alone several 
times by his basket. (See photo, Fig. 6, and p. 178, 
PL II, No. 1.) Once I counted to 13 while he was 
standing there. He takes every opportunity to get 
hold of something to try to pull himself up on his 
feet. By the twenty-eighth week he was pulling him- 
self up alone to a standing position. The twenty- 
eighth week, fifth day, I put a blanket and pillows on 
the floor, and he tumbled and rolled about there. This 
day he moved, by rolling, a distance of three feet. 

8. Eighth Mouth. (September.) (See Chart VIII 
and Fig. .7.) 

BRIEF SUMMAEY OF THE MONTH. This was another 
month of general progress, though he did not gain 
in weight, in fact, he lost a trifle, and twice during 
the month there were irregularities lasting about a 
week each. The first of these (thirty-first week, first 
day, to thirty-first week, fifth day) came very near 
being a repetition of the sixth month's trouble ex- 
cessive feeding but before any great harm was 
done I suspected that his crying was not for more, 
but for less food. At any rate, as soon as I cut down 
the quantity of food and omitted the night feeding 
there was no further trouble. The chart shows the 
return to long night naps and fewer meals a day after 
thirty-first week, sixth day, when these first reduc- 
tions were made. 

The second irregularity occurred from the thirty- 
third week, second day to the thirty-third week, sixth 
day, when he would wake every night about 3 o'clock. 
He did not cry aifd he was not cross, but he was not 




50 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 51 

sleepy. Water did not satisfy him, and as there were 
no evidences of overfeeding, I fed him, after which 
he always went to sleep and finished out his rest. I 
thought that perhaps he was sleeping so much in the 
daytime that he was not sleepy at night, but that 
would not account for his going to sleep again after 
feeding at 3 o'clock, so I had to conclude that this was 
a true instance of under-feeding. And the cause of 
that was to be found in the milk supply. This would 
have been the right time to have begun to wean him, 
but I was very anxious not to introduce the new food 
till the warm weather was well past, so I still nursed 
him, at the risk of underfeeding, and avoided the 
risks of prepared food. 

9. Ninth Month* (October.) (See Chart IX.) 

. 

The Beginning of Weaning. 

I 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. This was a month 
of problems. The baby's customary long night naps 
were broken two-thirds of the nights, so that he was 
sleeping only 54% of the total time, as against 58% 
of the previous month. He was nursing two minutes 
longer at each meal than during the previous month 
(10y 2 minutes per meal), and I had begun to give 
other food in a bottle, average six and one-half 
ounces, 59 meals, out of 195. (For formulas, see 
chart.) The feces were coming almost twice as fast 
as during the previous month (one in 14^ hours) ; 
he was crying nine minutes a day, on an average, 

*The regular order of writing up the 13 items is omitted this 
time to avoid repetition. 




Fig. 7. Studying a new toy. (Age, eight and a quarter months.) 



52 




" 



^ 03 

J tH 
S 



D = v 5 



53 



54 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

which was nine times as much as the previous month, 
and his flesh was a little rough and itchy. On the 
other hand, he regurgitated but very little one and 

MXTH HO\T/f. 

Note: The vertical line that has a short horizontal lino at top 
indicates bottle feeding:. 

34 W. 5 I). Awoke at 2.45 A. M.. and again at midnight of that 
day. Difficult to account for this wakef illness. Is he overfed, 
hungry, wet or cold? He went to sleep again after being fed, bur 
awoke again after the 12 o'clock feeding and cried for about an 
hour. I gave him water, but did not feed him, and he finally went 
to sleep. 

35 W. Awoke twice, but was not fed. The first time went to 
sleep again : the second, waited patiently for half an hour for din- 
ner, and did not seem hungry. Seemed dissatisfied after 7.30 meal, 
so fed him again at 8.30. 

35 W. 21). Another problem-night. Awoke twice. Gave him 
warm water and warm bath, but he would not go to sleep, so I 
finally gave dinner. 

35 W. 1 D. I believe the cause of his recent wakefulness is dis- 
covered. I have been taking long walks with him afternoons, and 
have used up my milk. Yeserday (.35 W.) instead of walking about 
we sat on the roof, and in addition to that. I drank cocoa, hot mil\' 
and water, and ate cornmeal, so he had an abundant supper, and 
went straight to sleep. At 11 o'clock 1 changed his diaper without 
waking him. and he did not wake until 4.30 A. M.. an interval of 
1lVj hours. I fed him then, and again he slept: moreover, he took 
another nap between '.) o'clock and 12 o'clock. For once I fool 
certain that he was restless because he was hungry. 

35 AY. 3 I). An "off" day. Possibly some peaches I ate for supper 
disturbed the milk. If this is not the cause, then I do not know 
whether the trouble is from too little or too much food. 

35 AY. (! I). My milk is evidently no longer to bo depended upon. 
so I have decided to begin today with modified cow's milk, follow- 
ing as far as practicable Holt's formulas. ( Sec Chart IX (con- 
tinued) for formulas used.) Having prepared the bottle. T wailed 
till he was very hungry, then gave it to him, but he refused to have 
anything to do with it. AA'hen I put it to his mouth lit 1 cried harder 
than he has ever cried. Twice 1 took him to the roof to calm him. 
After a while he became interested in chewing the nipple, and while 
he was playing with it I managed to squoo/e a few drops into his 
mouth. Finally he began to suck ; then all was calm ; he drank 
contentedly and peacefully and went to sleep. 

3C> AV. Cried for three-quarters of an hour before 3.15. Would 
not take warm water, but went to sloe]) after he ing fed. Cried 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 55 

one-quarter tbs. the entire month, though he vom- 
ited 27 times, average one-half tbs. (13.5 tbs. in all). 
Thirty-two out of 51 feces were perfect ; 15 were only 

two minutes till fed at 10 o'clock. A happier day and more sleep. 
I believe lie had not been getting enough to eat. New food appar- 
ently digesting fairly well ; feces only a little curdled and a little 
green, but no vomiting or regurgitation. 

36 W. 1 D. Another problem. What is the cause of the restless 
nights? Is he hungry, surfeited or otherwise in pain? After 2 
A. M. he was fed a little, regurgitated a little, was not hungry, 
but could not go to sleep. I concluded that he had had enough to 
eat and had no pain, but why did he not go to sleep? However, he 
did go to sleep after a small meal at 4.30, and again at 10 o'clock 
as soon as fed. A perfect feces came at 8 o'clock, after an interval 
of 24 hours, but at 12 o'clock another came, which was slightly 
curdled and greenish. It is difficult to draw conclusions when the 
evidences are so contradictory. And always it is possible that his 
teeth trouble him and keep him awake. However. I must decide 
how to feed him tomorrow. I shall give him two bottlefuls, as 
he always sleeps after the bottle feedings, but shall wake him if 
he sleeps too long. 

30 W. 2 D. Decided to change plans. After first bottleful he 
slept so soundly for 2 1 /{> hours that I did not wake him. But he 
did not sleep again all day. I gave the second bottleful at 5.45, 
after which he slept till 10 o'clock, when he was again hungry, 
and was fed a very little (5 minutes), and again at 4 o'clock for 
minutes. (He has just formed the habit of sucking from the 
bottle. For the preceding four times he would bite and snap the 
rubber first.) 

36 W. 3 D. The fact that he sleeps so soundly and seems so 
contented after taking the prepared food, and that the feces are 
good, if not quite perfect,* lead me to decide, at least tentatively, 
to continue to increase the quantity and quality of his food by 
giving more bottle feedings. After 3 o'clock meal, restless, and not 
sleepy when put down. After 6.15, cried, was fed again and went 
to sleep. 

36 W. 5 D. Beginning again to act like his own self. I must 
have been underfeeding him. 

36 W. 6 D. Too many feces. However, they are smooth and 
yellow, and not loose and not much at a time. This would seem to 
indicate that he is eating too much, yet twice today he still seemed 
hungry after meals. To strike the right balance is my problem. 
Of course, his teeth may be the disturbing element. 

37 W. A very good day. Tried to pull through without the night 
feeding, but had to feed him at 12 o'clock. 



*From here on in the charts, "L" under feces means loose. 



56 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

slightly curdled, greenish or loose, and only four 
were curdled badly, green and slimy. He weighed 
19.3 pounds, an increase of 0.8 pound. Again and 

37 W. 1 D. Feres still too frequent, and beginning to be loose. 
Shall reduce quantity and quality, and leave out barley. (I had 
not yet learned the value of barley in restoring normality after the 
tendency had been toward the loose feces. ) 

37 W. 4 D. Yesterday and today bluish under the eyes, and 
cheeks pale. Threw up very sour curds after 1.30. Three feces 
came close together. Evidently over-fed or food too rich. Have 
cut down the number of meals, which was easy, because he was 
not hungry (two bottles instead of three or four). Have increased 
the water and omitted barley. Color in cheeks better tonight. 

38 W. Feces normal again. Have given more warm water, and 
have diluted food, because the red spot on the eye, the itchy face 
and the rapid increase in weight seem to indicate too much or too 
rich food. 

38 W. 2 D. lie still wakes during the night. I would let him 
cry it out were it not for the neighbors. Feces bad. Omitted 
barley. Later I found out it would have been better had I omitted 
the milk. 

38 W. 3 D. Fever. Called Dr. Caldwell. Upon his advice I 
gave a hot bath (108). eight gray powder tablets every half hour, 
one tsp. castor oil, omitted artificial, food, tried to starve him 
awhile, and between the breast meals to give very dilute barley 
gruel. lie woke three or four times during the night, but soon went 
to sleep again without feeding. 

38 W. 4 D. Temperature normal at 3 P. M., two loose movements 
from the castor oil. Feeling lively again this afternoon. I tried 
giving him barley between the breast meals, as the physician ad- 
vised, but he refused it. 

38 W. f> D. He is again in excellent condition. Would not take 
barley plain, so added a little milk, sugar and limewater; then 
he took it and went to sleep immediately. From 10.4;") to 12 P. M. 
he refused the bottle and cried intermittently when not diverted. 
Finally, I submitted and gave him a breast meal. 

39 W. Woke twice, but went to sleep without being fed. A per- 
fect day. 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 57 

again when he seemed restless, I tried, as I had be- 
fore, to satisfy him with water, but generally he 
would not be contented until he had had his full meal. 
The climax came on the thirty-eighth week, third day, 
with a fever and bad feces, when as an experiment I 
left the barley out of his food. (I had not yet learned 
the value of barley.) The fever was broken up in 
about 24 hours by castor oil and gray-powder tablets. 
A fast and breast meals restored normal conditions. 

Though his teeth did not get through until the 
eleventh month, they were beginning to show, and I 
suspect that some of the irregularities of this month 
might have been caused by teething. 

As for his physical development, he continued try- 
ing to get up on his feet at every opportunity, and 
while standing beside a chair, he enjoyed having me 
put my hands under his feet and raise and lower him 
while he kept his body erect and firm. (See photo- 
graph, p. 178, Plate II, No. 10.) He learned to man- 
age his baby-tender so well that he could play hide- 
and-seek with me on the roof. (See photograph, p. 
178, Plate II, No. 6.) He could hold his own weight 
by hanging from a stick (see photograph, p. 178, 
Plate II, No. 8) or from the clothesline (see photo- 
graph, p. 178, Plate II, No. 4). 

So, in spite of his little irregularities, he was mak- 
ing progress and gradually being weaned. From one 
bottle feeding a day, he had gradually passed to four 
out of the six or seven meals. 

As it is difficult to make an adequate summary of 
the various problems of this month and to avoid un- 
necessary repetitions, they are stated in the notes 
accompanying Chart IX : 




Chart IX (continued). Formulas for 

bottle feedings, adapted from Holt. 
1* First Series, Formula V. Holt. 
2* Third Series, Formula II. Holt. 
3* Third Series, Formula IV. Holt. 



58 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 59 

10. Tenth Month. (November.) (See Chart X and 

Fig. 8.) 

Weaning Completed. 

I. BKIEF SUMMARY or THE MONTH. During this 
month the weaning was completed, and, I might add, 
without any inconvenience to me. As in the previous 
month, I continued to reduce the number of breast 
meals, while increasing the number of prepared 
meals. .On the whole, I was solving the problem of 
his food better than during the previous month, so 
that in the matters of sleep, behavior, the number of 
and intervals between meals, and the number and 
character of feces, there was an improvement over 
the preceding month. On the other hand, he re- 
gurgitated and vomited the least bit more, and had 
a cold in the head and a cough, which interfered with 
his sleeping and made him cry considerabh 7 . His 
crying, however, during both this and the previous 
month may have been partly caused by his teeth, two 
of which were beginning to show white through the 
gums. 

II. DETAILS. (See Chart X, p. 60.) 

1. Number of meals a day. The number of meals 
a day was reduced from six to five (Holt advises 
six). 

2. Intervals between meals. The intervals be- 
tween meals, both day and night, were lengthen d 
the day -interval from three to three and one-half 
hours, the night interval from seven and two-fifths 
to eight and two-fifths hours. 

3. Diet. The time at the breast (only 33 breast 
meals were given) was increased from 13% to 14 




fiO 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 61 

minutes, and the time nursing from 10V> to 12 min- 
utes (both of which increases may be accounted for 
by the fact that my milk was flowing less vigorously). 
Holt advises not more than 20 minutes. The re- 

TENTH MONTH. 

39 W. 1 D. Awake from 3 A. M. to 4 A. M., cried, was restless, 
but was not fed. 

39 W. 2 D. Awake for a minute or two, but was not fed. 

39 W. 5 D. Awake for one-half hour, but was not fed. 

40 W. Fed at 3 A. M. to relieve pressure on my breasts. A 
breast pump would have better served the purpose. 

40 W. Feces loose, so omitted one meal (afternoon). 

40 W. 1 D. Woke twice, fretted for a time, then went to sleep. 

40 W. 4 D. Woke at 1 A. M., 3 A. M. and 4 A. M. Cried a little, 
but went to sleep. 

40 W. 5 D. Woke three times ; cried himself to sleep. Had two 
feces, close together, and a slight cold. I surmised he was getting 
too much to eat, so cut down food, gave two meals of plain barley 
and water. At 8.30 A. M. gave 1 tsp. castor-oil and 1 tsp. orange 
juice. Better by evening, breathing through nose. 

40 W. D. An excellent night. When he awoke at 4 A. M. I 
gave him a drink of warm water in his bottle, and he went to sleep 
again at once. 

41 W. Another good night. Gave 2 oz. warm water at 4 o'clock. 
41 W. 2 D. Woke at 3 A. M., cried, would not be satisfied with 

water, so was fed. 

41 W. 3 D. Woke, cried, did not want water ; finally was given 
breast meal and then went to sleep. Color is good ; eyes are big 
and bright; sits up straight in carriage. 

41 W T . 5 D. Fed at 12 midnight, but could not sleep. Cold bad : 
head stopped up ; coughed. Went to sleep after nose was sprayed 
with mucol. 

41 W T . D. One ounce warm water and a feeding at 3.30 A. M. 
After I had fed him I felt certain he did not require that food. 

42 W. His cold keeps him awake again. Gave castor-oil at 
8 A. M. At 5 P. M. put drops (menthol and albolene, Dr. McCast- 
line's prescription) in nose. 

42 W. 1 D. Again awake at 3.30 A. M., and again fed, which I 
now believe was a wrong thing to have done. 

42 W. 2 D. Awake from 3.30 A. M. to 5 A. M., coughed, was 
restless, had drops put in nose and was fed, the latter probably 



62 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

maining 1 24 prepared meals averaged 6.3 ounces. I 
am able now to compare the quantity exactly with 
Holt. Five meals a day, averaging 6.3 ounces a meal, 
amounts to 3U/> ounces in 24 hours. Holt advises, 



unnecessary. Rash on body. Evidently I had not reached the 
cause of his trouble, and though his cold and rash were slight, I 
called Dr. Ca Id well for ad*Hce. lie advised a mustard bath, which 
relieved the baby's head, though he did cough some after it. The 
physician said his condition was not alarming, but merely an 
intestinal disorder. 

42 W. o I). Hash gone. Cold much better. 

42 W. 4 I). Woke coughing, and coughed a long while. Inhaled 
fumes of benzoin, coughing finally stopped. 

42 W. 3 I). Gave third dose of castor-oil, because the feces were 
a little greenish, still hoping thereby to help the cold. Cough seems 
loose. Possibly it is whooping-cough. 

42 W. (5 I). Rest night for about a \veek. 

4:5 W. ID. Rad feces and a rash. Gave two meals of barley 

and water. V'>ry much better today. No serious coughing for two 

days. Eager to walk ; laughs heartily. Teeth not yet through, but 

bigger and plainer in the gum. I believe his restlessness has been 

caused ,in part, by teething pains. 

43 W. 2 I). Rash gone. 

4.'] W. 3 I). Have discontinued orange, thinking it might have 
caused trouble with feces. Also changed nipple, as the milk was 
coming too fast. Feces perfect again today, after an interval of 
40 hours. 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 63 

from the ninth to twelfth month, 35 to 45 ounces in 
24 hours. So Leonard was getting three and one- 
half ounces less a day than the smallest amount Holt 
advises. 

The formulas for these meals (see Chart X) were 
determined by the " conditions present " before each 
meal. I aimed to give the baby just as much as he 
could assimilate well, but to reduce the quantity or 
to weaken the quality whenever I saw what seemed 
to me warrant for so doing. For instance, after too 
frequent feces, or a disturbed feces, plain barley was 
given. In the chart thirty-ninth week, first day and 
second day; fortieth week, fifth day, to forty-first 
week, and forty-third week, first day, to third day, 
illustrate the effect of plain barley on the feces. The 
feces became perfect and less frequent. I also ex- 
perimented with oatmeal. From the fortieth to for- 
ty-first week, which was the week preceding the one 
in which I gave the oatmeal, he had nine movements ; 
during the week in which he had oatmeal (forty-first 
to forty- second week) he had 13 movements, about 
two a day; during the following week with no oat- 
meal he had 11 for the week, and in the three days 
following that week (forty-third week to forty- third 
week, third day), when barley was given three times 
plain, he had only three movements, or only one a 
day. This meant that oatmeal would be the best 
food for him should he be inclined to be constipated, 
but he had not yet required that treatment. Twice 
I tried prepared wheat flour, but noted no unusual 
effects. I did not continue using it, because the bar- 
ley had already proved so satisfactory that I kept 
to it alone for a while longer. As for the proportion 



()4 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

of milk to barley, after varying these and noting 
results, I found, by about the middle of the month, 
that two ounces of 1% milk and four ounces of bar- 
ley, with one-third ounce of lime water and one-quar- 
ter tbs. milk sugar, gave the best results. When the 
feces were curdled or greenish, I generally reduced 
the milk, or if the disturbance was very bad left it 
out altogether. Three times during the month I gave 
him castor oil, not because the feces were bad, but 
with the hope of breaking up his cold by cleaning out 
the intestines. This method did not succeed in this 
instance. Local application was needed. 

Again and again I tried to eliminate the night 
meal. Six times he fretted for a time, but went to 
sleep without being fed. Twice he fell asleep after 
taking two to three ounces of warm water instead of 
food, but for about half of the month I fed him when 
he awoke, between 6 P. M. and 6 A. M., though on 
three of these occasions I tried water first. 

Water and orange juice. He was drinking an av- 
erage of two ounces of water a day for 23 days, and 
during the remaining nine days, I gave him some 
orange juice with the water, averaging one and one- 
eighth ounces a day. I did not record the exact 
amount, but it was the juice of half an orange. 

4. He gurgitation and vomiting. He regurgitated 
but little, three and one-half tbs. in all, though this 
was more than twice as much as during the previous 
month, and he vomited 32 times, an average of one- 
half tb., or 1G tbs. in all (previous month 13.5 tbs.). 

5. Sleep. As would be expected, he was sleeping 
better than during the previous month 56% of the 




Fig. 8. Safe in the fold. (Ago, nine and three-fourths months.) 



66 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

total time which was 2% more than during the 
previous month. 

6. Feces. There was a decided improvement in 
the number of feces, one in 21 hours, instead of one 
in 14% hours, and their character was as follows: 

Out of 42, 27 were perfect ; 

1 was curdled a little and yellow ; 

4 were smooth, but greenish yellow ; 

1 was both slightly curdled and greenish yellow ; 

(I were smooth and yellow, but loose, and 5 of these 

were caused by castor oil. 
1 was curdled, greenish yellow and loose. 
1 was slightly curdled and loose. 
1 was smooth, greenish yellow and loose. 

7. Skin. As for the condition of the skin, the 
sides of the face near the ear continued to itch. Cold 
cream and vaseline, half and half, or zinc ointment, 
would often heal it, but it would no sooner be well 
than in an unguarded moment he would scratch it 
sore again. He did this nine times. I hoped that as 
soon as the food was right the face would get well, 
but at the same time I tried to find the right local 
treatment for the sore flesh something to stop the 
itching. 

8. Cold. A cold proved to be the difficult prob- 
lem of the month. It began in the second week, with 
only a slight cold in the head, and I now believe that 
had I known the use of inucol and used it at the first 
sign of the cold, all further developments would have 
been checked. But I did not know what to apply 
locally, so what I did was to keep his bowels free 
from anything that might be causing trouble there, 
and three times they were cleared out with castor 
oil. Also I kept him out of doors as much as pos- 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 67 



sible. When the cold had lasted for nine days Dr. 
McCastline suggested dropping menthol and albo- 
lene in the nose, and I tried it, much to the baby's 
relief. But about a week later a cough developed, 
which would manifest itself at night, and four times 
I had to use the fumes of benzoine to stop the cough- 
ing. Once from the way in which he caught his 
breath I feared it might be whooping-cough. After 
this I rubbed camphorated oil on his chest a few 
times at night and gave him two mustard baths. By 
the end of the month the cold was practically well. 

9. Behavior. His behavior (1.25) was not as 
good as it had been during the eighth and ninth 
months. 

10. Crying. He cried an average of 12 minutes 
a day, which was about three minutes longer than 
that of the previous month, and, judging from the 
fact that he kept putting his finger in his mouth so 
frequently, I feel certain that much of his crying was 
due to teething pains. 

11. Weight. His weight (18.7 pounds), though 
he lost this month because of the cold, had not fallen 
below the Holt standard; in fact, was about even 
with it. 

12. Physical achievements. He was still using 
every opportunity to stand, in fact, was quite at 
home on his feet, though he had to grasp something 
to keep his balance (see p. 178, Plate II, No. 5). 

11. Eleventh Month. (December.) (See Chart XL) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. This is even a 
prettier month (considering the good-looking chart 




y. 

'/ a 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 69 

it makes) than were those other excellent ones, the 
fourth and seventh. All I can conclude, is, that 
though three teeth came through, none of them was 
troublesome, and that I must have been nearly right 
in the control of food. It was a month of practically 
uninterrupted progress. 

12. Twelfth Month. (January.) (See Chart XII 

and Fig. 10.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. The achievement 
of this mouth was Leonard's learning to walk abso- 
lutely alone. (See Fig. 9.) He accomplished this 
just two days before he was a year old. Aside from 
this, there was no unusual development as compared 
with the preceding month. 

13. Thirteenth Month. (February.) (See Chart 

XIII.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. This was another 
month of continued growth. The passage from 10% 
milk toward straight milk was gradually being made. 

14. Fourteenth Month. (March.) (See Chart XIV.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. This was another 
month of general progress. He was taking straight 
milk. A few meals had to be reduced and diluted to 
rectify slight evidences of indigestion. He walks, 
runs and climbs more vigorously. 

15. Fifteenth Month. (April) (See Chart XV.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. Again there was 
progress through the month. The particular achieve- 




70 




Fig. 9. He taught himself to walk "all alone" before he was 
a year old. (Age, one year.) 



71 




Fig. 10. A pleasing diversion. (Age, eleven and 
three-quarter months.) 



73 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 75 

ment. however, was the addition of wheat (prepared 
flour), farina and cream of wheat to his menu. A 
second trial proved oatmeal to be too loosening for 
the feces. A slight cold, broken up within two days, 
and a prolonged attack of vomiting (the first of the 
kind he had had), were the only disturbances of the 
month. 

16. Sixteenth Month. (May.) (See Chart XVI.) 

BEIEF SUMMARY or THE MONTH. Nothing very un- 
usual developed this month, but the feces were a puz- 
zling problem. Nine times the diet had to be re- 
duced in. order to check too frequent movements. 
The cause for this irregularity may have been the 
teeth, for I concluded his teeth pained him because 
he drooled, put his fingers to his mouth, and occa- 
sionally fretted and cried. Other than this, there 
was nothing distinctive in the month's development. 

17. Seventeenth Month. (June.) (See Chart XVII.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. As this month 
marked the beginning of that season most dreaded 
for babies, the second summer, I was most conscien- 
tious in noting every irregularity and in endeavoring 
to keep all functiohings under my control, and but 
for one teething disturbance of a week's duration, 
the month was one of .continued gain. (See Figs. 11 
and 12.) 

18. Eighteenth Month. (July.) (See Chart XVIII.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY or THE MONTH. Another uninter- 
rupted month of progress. (See Figs. 13 and 14.) 




Fig 11. Acquiring skill in manipulating a spoon. (Ago, 
sixteen and three-fourths months.) 



7S 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 79 

To his menu are added four cereals oatmeal, hom- 
iny, wheatena and rice and zwiebach is given regu- 
larly with his meals. Also four dry nights stand to 
his credit, and he is beginning to ask to go to the 
toilet, "A, a" (a as in ask). 

19. Nineteenth Month. (August.) (See Chart XIX 

and Fig. 15.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. Another month of 
gain in all details. The new achievements were in 
the line of bodily activities. He walked both up and 
down six flights of stairs, holding my hand and some- 
times the banister; he climbed up four rungs of a 
ladder (see p. 180, Plate III, No. 9; climbed all 
around the benches in the park, getting down safely 
alone from them, and tried several times to jump up 
off the ground. 

20. Twentieth Month. (September.) (See Chart 

XX.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. Two periods of 
about two days each were the only exceptions to con- 
tinued progress during this month. A hot bath, cas- 
tor oil, a reduction of the diet and three gray-pow- 
der tablets broke up a slight fever and restored nor- 
mal conditions in the first period (nineteenth month, 
first week, second day, to nineteenth month, first 
week, third day). In the second (nineteenth month, 
second week, to nineteenth month, second week, sec- 
ond day) a slight* cold in the head, accompanied by 
hoarseness, was broken up by the third day with the 




Fig. 12. I'laying on the roof. (Age 
sixteen months. 







th mon 
trouble. 



j 



81 




M * 




Fig. 13. Enjoying a joke. (Ago, 
seventeen months.) 



83 




84 




Fig. 14. A straight back. (Age, seventeen and a half 
months.) 



85 



86 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

use of menthol and albolene, mucol, and the exclusive 
use of barley as the cereal in the diet. 

21. Twenty-first Month. (October.) (See Chart 
XXI and Fig. 16.) 

1. BKIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. This was as 
near a perfect month as one could wish it to be. A 
little roughness of the flesh and a few pimples and 
one attack of vomiting 1 were the only irregularities 
noted, and progress was made in all directions. 

IT. DETAILS. L Number of meals a day. He ate 
3.7 times about as frequently as during the previous 
month, 3.8. 

2. Intervals between meals. The intervals varied 
but little; the long one was shorter by .3 of an hour, 
or went back to 13 hours, and the short one increased 
.1 of an hour, making it 3.8 hours. 

3. Diet. The total amount, 10.2 oz., was the same 
as for the previous month, but the milk, 6.85 oz., was 
an increase of .65 oz. over the previous month, and 
the cereals were also thicker, barley being used only 
six times. To be sure, water was used five times, an 
average of 2.4 oz. (previous month three times, 2.8 
oz.), but twice this was to soften some very thick 
hominy that had cooled and was hard, so that really 
only three meals were diluted with 2.4 oz., less than 
the previous month. The amount of cereal used, 3.5 
oz., was 0.5 oz. less than for the previous month, but 
the increased thickness meant an increase rather 
than a decrease in value. Of the cereals used, farina 
lead the list, appearing 42 times alone and 3 times 
with others (previous month 29 times alone and 4 




Fig. 15. Portrait. (Age, eighteen months.) 



87 




81 



88 




Fig. 16. Walking wheelbarrow fashion. (Age, twenty months.) 



.-: ;89 




Si 



^ 




-M O 

O T5 



a s -o 



0^ 



" 






Si 

s- 1 t 

S 
j= 

C^ 



90 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 91 

with others) ; wheatena followed, 28 times alone and 
3 times with others. Then followed rice, 16 times 
alone and once with others, which was 10 more times 
than in the previous month. Barley came fourth, 6 
times alone, or 22 times less than in the previous 
month; cream of wheat next, 5 times, and last hom- 
iny, used 4 times alone and twice with others (these 
two last were used about the same during the pre- 
vious month). So again, as in the previous month, 
the slight reduction in quantity is accompanied by a 
greater relative increase in qualit} 7 . One-half tsp. of 
granulated sugar was added to each meal, and a piece 
of zwiebach was given each time (previous month 
1.7 pieces) ; also for 30 meals about two-thirds of a 
slice of bread each, and for 9 meals an egg was given. 
The extra things tried all of them seemed to digest 
well were a Japanese rice cake, tapioca pudding, 
rice pudding, custard pudding and jelly. 

But few modifications were made in the formulas 
to correct irregularities. On twentieth month, sec- 
ond week, fifth day, the baby seemed to be not very 
hungry, and, as I attributed his loss of appetite to 
excessive eating, barley was resorted to for the day. 
Also the afternoon meal (from 2 to 3 o'clock) was 
generally very small, or was omitted (eight times) 
when he was not hungry. 

Water and orange juice were given as usual 2.7 
oz. of water a day, and on 25 days, 2 oz. of orange 
juice each. 

4. Vomiting. On twentieth month, second week, 
fourth day, 2 tbs. were vomited, evidently from 
an overcrowded stomach; at least no other cause was 
apparent, 



92 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

5. Sleep. The night naps lost a trifle. From 
11.75 hours, they were reduced to 11.6 hours, but the 
day naps more than compensated, with a gain of 0.4 
of an hour ; i. e., they were 2.7 hours. 

6. Feces. But for three slightly loose feces, the 
feces were perfect throughout the month, and 19 out 
of 44 were caught in the chamber. 

7. Skin. A little roughness appeared on the but- 
tocks, the cause of which I could not ascertain. It 
came after he ate some meat and egg, or it may have 
been caused by arj excessive amount of soap being 
used in the bath. However, after its first appear- 
ance, it grew fainter, and in about a week it disap- 
peared altogether. At another time a few pimples 
appeared that were caused by the feces being left in 
the diaper against the flesh for a few minutes. A 
little zinc ointment soon healed them. 

8. Cold. No sign of a cold appeared during the 
month. 

9. Behavior. The high average attained this 
month, 1.03, was reached only twice before, during 
the tenth and during the seventeenth months. On 
three occasions when he fretted he stopped after hav- 
ing tannic acid rubbed on his gums. Twice he re- 
sented being put to bed when guests were here. Oth- 
erwise he was a perfectly contented baby. 

10. Crying. The teeth brought few tears, or at 
least tannic acid soon stopped his crying. In all he 
cried about 15 minutes. 

11. Weight. He weighed 27.6 Ibs. (2.6 Ibs. above 
the Holt average). 

12. Physical achievements. Increasing facility 
of motion was shown in all physical activities. He 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 93 

feeds himself with no assistance now, and frequently 
with no one watching him, and spills but little on 
his bib. 

13. Teeth. The twelfth tooth came throughthe 
lower, right, front double tooth, the last of the four 
front double teeth. 

14. Remarks. In trying to keep his thumb out of 
his mouth he has lost some sleep. The sucking habit 
is not broken, but I keep the thumb out of his mouth 
as much as I can. 

22. Tweuly-second Month. (November.) (See 
Chart XXII.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. The month's, and 
practically the year's, progress (for it was just one 
year ago, at nine months, that he had his last set- 
back) was interrupted by a cold, which lasted eight 
days and was accompanied for a day by a fever. His 
teeth also pained him during this period, and may 
have been a cause in bringing about the fever. Dur- 
ing that week, the third week of this month, the diet 
was considerably reduced, which meant a general 
reduction in the diet averages for the month; but 
considering the averages for the week following the 
cold (the last week of the month), when the diet re- 
turned to a normal amount, the amounts generally 
show an increase. 

23. Tweiity-tliird Month. (December.) (See Chart 

XXIII.) 

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. In spite of a little 
intestinal irregularity lasting about four days, and 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 95 

a cold lasting five days, the month generally was a 
good one. One development of the month was the 
transition from four to three meals a day, effected 
by omitting the afternoon meal, making a long after- 
noon period from dinner to supper time. An evi- 
dence of his increasing muscular development and 
control is shown in his walking up and down six 
flights of stairs, holding my hand and the banister. 
He did this several times. A few dry days and sev- 
eral dry nights also show a gain in the control of 
excretion. 

24. Twenty-fourth Month. (January.) (See Chart 
XXIV and Figs. 17, 18 and 19 [Frontispiece]). 

A Bad Teething Month. 

I. BRIEF SUMMARY or THE MONTH. The problem 
of the first three weeks of this month was to remedy 
the loose feces. Those foods, such as oatmeal, 
shredded wheat, wheatena, prunes and bread, that 
tended to make the feces loose were omitted, 
or used very sparingly, and only those were used 
that heretofore had kept the feces compact, such 
as barley, farina, cream of wheat and zwiebach. Yet 
for 24 days the feces remained loose, though perfectly 
smooth, a good yellow in color and regular in time. 
It would seem as if the cutting of the eye teeth were 
the cause. The right eye tooth came through early 
in the month, but the left one not until the following 
month. The feces, however, became perfect before 
the tooth came through. From several indications 
I know that cutting this tooth pained him. He drew 
in his lower lip and held the upper teeth and upper 




9(3 




Fig. 17. In his wheelbarrow on 
great loads back and forth. 
and a half months.) 



the roof he carries 
(Age, twenty- three 




08 




Fig. 18. Off for a trot with Daddy. (Age, 
twenty-throe and a half months.) 



99 



100 HOW T KEPT MY BABY WELL 

lip tight over it. He fretted, or even cried, and asked 
to have the tannic acid put on his teeth, which always 
brought relief. 

A second problem appeared in the third week of 
this month with a prolonged attack of vomiting, fol- 
lowed the next day by a fever. By the fourth day 
castor oil, baths and gray-powder tablets had re- 
stored normal conditions; by the fifth day the feces 
became compact again. The cause was probably 
overfeeding. 

II. DETAILS. (See Chart XXIV, p. 98.) 1. 
Number of meals a day. The habit of having three 
meals a day is now Y\ T ell Hxed. When lie wakes in the 
afternoon lie has orange juice and water. There were 
five four-meal days after the upset, when the meals 
were still reduced in quantity, so that little and often 
was the rule. 

2. Intervals betn'ceu meals. Two periods, one of 
23 hours and one of 22 hours, that occurred after the 
siege of vomiting bring up the average of the long 
period from 13.8 hours to 14.0 hours; but, averaging 
the first three normal weeks, it is a trifle less than the 
previous month, 13.6 hours. The morning interval 
averages a trifle more, 3.7 hours (previous month 3.6 
hours), and the afternoon period as much less 6.4 
hours (previous month 6.5 hours). 

3. Diet. No new foods were added to the diet 
this month because of the prevailing looseness of the 
feces. I was able to try only one new dish beef and 
barley soup toward the end of the month. I am 
not quite sure how the beef digested, as three of the 
movements following were curdled, but five w r ere 
smooth. Of the regular foods he had about the same 
average amount of milk, 6.4 oz. (previous month 6.3 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 101 

oz.), and less water was added, four meals, 2 1 /> oz. 
(previous month 11 meals, 2.8 oz.), but the average 
for the first three weeks, 7.5 oz., shows an increase of 
1.2 oz., the largest increase made in any one month. 
Possibly it was this excessive amount of milk that 
disturbed the intestines. Once I tried boiling milk 
(though this makes the proteid harder to digest) ; 
again, I added lime water to the milk, but even this 
did not correct the looseness. Condensed milk was 
given one morning when the regular milk failed to 
arrive in time. The cereal, as well as the milk, also 
increased over the previous month, 3.4 oz., 85% of 
the meals (previous month 3.2 oz., 80% of the meals), 
and the amount for the first three weeks was a still 
greater increase, 3.85 oz., 92% of the time. But as 
barley took the lead among the cereals, this seemingly 
high increase is not so high in value as the figures 
would indicate. The cereals were confined chieliy to 
the three that hitherto had kept the feces compact. 
Barley was used 38 times, farina 12, cream of wheat 
11, rice 10, wheatena 9 (mostly before and after the 
feces were loose), hominy three times and shredded 
wheat once, the last meal of the month. Granulated 
sugar was used as before, 0.5 tsp. to a normal meal, 
and was reduced relatively to the size of a meal. Be- 
fore the vomiting began about one egg a day was 
given, but none was given after that. Prunes, since 
they tended to loosen the feces, were almost entirely 
omitted for the month, only six being given. Zwie- 
bach was the standard bread for the month, about 
one piece for each meal ; for 10 meals it was used in 
the milk in place of a cereal. But little bread was 
given, one slice for each of 13 meals, because I was 
none too sure how bread was digesting. Ten times a 



102 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

slice of dried bread was given ; I was as sure of this 
digesting as of zwiebach. "Educator' 7 crackers 
were used about 8 times, an average of 3y 2 each time. 
Of the extra foods, macaroni cooked with beef was 
given 4 times, about 4 oz. each time ; 1 tsp. of jelly 
once. Twice beef and barley soup were tried and 
once rice (3 oz.) cooked with chicken. The beef and 
barley soup was the only one of these extra foods 
about the digestibility of which I was not quite 
certain. 

This was, then, largely a month of modifications, 
because the diet had to be confined to those foods that 
tend to make the feces compact. The average quan- 
tity, however, was equal to, or greater than, that of 
the previous month, but during the third week all 
the meals were reduced in quantity. 

Orange and water were given when he awoke in 
the afternoon, averaging on 17 days 2 oz. of water a 
day, and on 22 days 1.8 oz. of orange juice. That 
night when he was vomiting he was very thirsty, and 
drank all I would give him. All but the last drink, 
the fourth one, was thrown up. On the following day 
lie was still thirsty, so that in those two days he had 
about 37 oz. of water. These quantities were so un- 
usual they have not been figured in the general 
average. 

Medication. Four times a tsp. of castor oil was 
given twenty-third month, second day; twenty-third 
month, first week, third day; twenty-third month, 
third week, first day and second day. The first time 
in order to break up a cold and to correct feces; the 
second time to clear out the intestines so that the 
feces would harden; the third time to carry off the 
trouble-maker after he had vomited. The last dose 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 103 

was soon thrown up, and again, on the day following 
the vomiting, another tsp. was given, which was re- 
tained and which did help to clean out the intestines. 
Three times gray powder tablets were used. The 
first time, twenty-third week, second day, the fever- 
ishness disappeared after only one had been given, 
though, of course, this one pill had not been the cause 
of the fever's sudden disappearance. On another 
similar occasion two pills were given, after which the 
feverishness disappeared. This was on the night 
of the long vomiting. The third dose was given the 
day following the long vomiting, when I found his 
temperature to be 103. Four pills were given that 
night, at 5 P. M., 10 P. M.. 2 A. M. and 5 A. M., and 
were followed in the morning (twenty-third month, 
third week, third day) by two bad movements, evi- 
dently a final cleaning out of the intestines. To 
assist in relieving the intestinal trouble an enema 
was given at 8.30 A. M., following the first of these 
movements, and another at 10.30 A. M., after the sec- 
ond movement. Four sponge baths of alcohol and 
cold water were also given that night to reduce the 
fever. By the next morning the temperature was 
down to 99.7 ; by 4 o'clock P. M. he was hungry for 
food, and relished some zwiebach and dried bread. 
The temperature went up again toward evening to 
100.4, but by the next morning, twenty-third month, 
third week, fourth day, he was obviously so well that 
I did not take the temperature again. 

4. Vomiting. This month contains a record of 
the worst vomiting of the baby's life so far. I believe 
it was caused by some bits of hominy that were not 
sufficiently broken up before entering the stomach 
(these pieces showed plainly in what was vomited). 



104 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

He vomited eight times, one after the other, at inter- 
vals of a half-hour to an hour and a half. He began 
vomiting at 5.45 P. M. (twenty-third month, third 
week) and continued four times until 9 o'clock. Then 
only gastric juice came up. At 9.30 P. M. I gave 
castor oil with orange juice, but that was thrown up; 
then, as he was very thirsty, he had three drinks of 
water, about 4 oz. each, two of them cold and one 
warm (I did not know which I should have given, so 
I tried both), all of which he threw up. Finally, at 
about 3.30 A. M., he had another warm drink, which 
he retained. On the second day following he vomited 
about an ounce about two hours after a 5 o'clock 
breakfast of 1 oz. of milk, with lime water, and 2 oz. 
of barley. After that, all went well. Of course, his 
eye tooth may have been contributory to this upset. 

5. Sleep. The sleep during the first three weeks 
averaged 60.4 % of the total time (previous month 
59%). The fact that only one day-time imp was 
omitted this month, as against five of the previous 
month helps to raise the percentage. The average 
for the entire month is still higher, 61.8%, because 
of the long and frequent naps after the vomiting 
spell. The night naps average 11.6 hours for the 
month, about the same as for the previous month, 
but the day naps increased from 2.8 hours to 3 hours, 
and only one nap was omitted throughout the month 
(when I tried again to break up the habit of sucking 
the thumb). 

6. Feces. Out of 46 feces only 11 were perfect, of 
which 9 were caught in the chamber. Twenty-one 
others, of which 18 were caught in the chamber, were 
smooth, yellow and properly timed, but were loose, 
about like pancake batter rather than pasty, like 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 105 

modeling clay. The cause may have been the exces- 
sive amount of milk, but I believe the teeth were pri- 
marily responsible. The baby had never had such a 
steady diet of constipating foods, and never such a 
series of loose feces. And tannic acid rubbed on the 
gums stopped his crying and fretting on several oc- 
casions. So, this time again, the cause of the trouble 
must be sought elsewhere than in the diet. Of the 
other feces, one, following the eating of rich chicken 
soup, was a very light bright yellow, and four, after 
eating prunes, were dark yellow. One curdled move- 
ment was possibly caused by boiled milk ; two smooth 
and yellow, but watery ones, followed the vomiting; 
three curdled, greenish and loose ones followed the 
gray tablets, while three curdled ones may have been 
caused by the beef and barley soup. 

7. Skin. There was no evidence of trouble in the 
skin, though I was expecting it during that vomiting 
period. The scalp still itched. Dr. JVlcCastline ad- 
vised liquid albolene, but it made the scalp itch worse, 
and I again resorted to olive oil, which was quieting. 

8. Cold. The first three days of the month were 
the final days of a cold started during the previous 
month. During these days the preparation of albo- 
lene and menthol was used in the nose only once; 
mucol was sprayed seven times, and one tsp. castor 
oil and one gray powder tablet were given. Another 
cold of short duration (four days) began on twenty- 
third month, first week, fourth day, and for a part of 
the time was accompanied by a cough. The albolene 
and menthol preparation was dropped in the nose 
five times and mucol was sprayed four times. Cam- 
phorated oil broke up the cough when it first ap- 
peared, but when it came the second time, Dr. 



106 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

McCastline advised a mustard plaster, to be held on 
the chest for a few minutes and to be followed, if 
necessary, by some tablets. Six of these tablets were 
given during the night as he coughed. These, with 
the mustard plaster, speedily suppressed the cold. 
With the movements affected and the teeth paining, 
it was urgent to get this cold out of the way in a 
hurry. 

9. Behavior. The cause of his fretting or being 
easily annoyed could generally be traced to the cut- 
ting of teeth, though I did not always apply tannic 
acid. When I did, his attitude changed immediately. 
While he had a cold, arid during those three days 
while the intestines and stomach were getting read- 
justed, he was also somewhat cross. The average 
for the first three weeks was 1.09, but was brought 
down to 1.1 by the upset of the third week. 

10. Crying. Though he cried 81 minutes in all, 
36 of these during the first three weeks, the reason 
was not far to seek. Of course, he cried while he was 
vomiting and having enemas and bad feces, which 
account for 45 minutes, and the teeth account for 
other tears, since, after tannic acid had been used, 
the tears stopped, and a cold, with a cough part of 
the time, accounts for the rest of his tears. 

1.1. Weight. He weighed 27.8 Ibs. in the middle 
of the month, but dropped to 27.1 Ibs. during the up- 
set. But even this was 1.1 Ibs. heavier than the Holt 
average. 

12. Physical achievements. Early in the month, 
as the cold was getting well, he learned to blow his 
nose and to spray it. (See p. 180, Plate III, No. 2.) 
On the twenty-third month, second week, fifth day, 
he walked down two flights of stairs, refusing my 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 107 

proffered hand, but holding on to the banister. When 
I have put the drops of menthol and abolene in his 
nose I have generally asked another person to hold 
some absorbent cotton over his eyes to prevent the 
medicine from dropping in and smarting. But one 
day he and I were alone, so I asked him to hold the 
cotton over his own eyes, which he did most gladly, 
and his attitude changed from that of the rebellious, 
persecuted person to that of one assisting at an oper- 
ation. I know from his behavior that the menthol 
smarted, but he did not cry. He likes to help do any- 
thing about the house, carry dishes to and from the 
dining-room, help (?) make beds, manipulate broom 
and sweeper, break up macaroni, and to do any little 
errand that a baby can do. 

25. Tiventy-fiftli Month, Third Week. 

The Last Month in Which Records Were Kept. 

(See Chart XXV.) 

1. BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MONTH. I had intended 
to discontinue the baby's record when he reached two 
years of age. In fact, I did discontinue keeping the 
daily records for the first two vv'eeks of the twenty- 
fifth month, but when I saw what a difference there 
was, particularly in the diet and physical achieve- 
ments, after the last canine tooth appeared, I de- 
cided to begin again at the third week (twenty-fourth 
month, second week), and to record it and include it 
in the report. As there were practically no inter- 
ruptions for the entire month, the record for the 
month is well represented by that week. The only 
thing to be mentioned as peculiar to the month is 
that cream and egg custard were added to the diet. 



108 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

II. DETAILS. (See Chart XXV, p. 110.) 

1. Number of meals a day. Three meals per day 
was continued as in the previous month. 

2. Intervals between meals. There was little 
change in the intervals from the normal three- week 
period of the previous month. The long interval was 
13.7 hours (previous month 13.6 hours), the morning 
interval 3.7 hours, a loss of about .3 an hour, which 
was partly made up by the increase of the afternoon 
period to 5.6 hours. 

3. Diet. The menu for this week, as for the 
month, was varied and the food was plenty. To in- 
duce him to chew more and to make the diet richer, 
instead of putting the milk on the cereal, I poured 
about 1.3 oz. of milk over it, in order that he would 
not drink the milk so fast, and he also had milk sep- 
arately with some zwiebach broken up in it. These 
changes he enjoyed. He also had a little of the beef 
with which the macaroni was cooked, and some un- 
sweetened egg custard, cooked like dessert custard, 
but flavored with salt instead of vanilla and sugar. 
(Proportions: one egg broken in about 2 to 3 oz. 
milk and a pinch of salt.) Sweet chocolate (Baker's 
Caraccas), grated, also proved to be a delicious rel- 
ish at the close of a meal. Of this he twice had about 
three-quarters teaspoonful. All these foods seemed 
to digest well. I think the cream kept the feces a 
little lighter in color and looser in texture. 

Of the regular foods he had less milk than the pre- 
vious month, 5% oz. four-fifths of the time (previous 
month 6.4 oz.), but I found that frequently when he 
had finished the cereal and cream for his breakfast 
he had had enough and did not care for the milk. 




Fig. 20. Turning on the electric light. (Age, twenty-three months.) 



109 



Interval 
and Sleep 
between 
Heals. 



flsleep 60.9f> 
of ibib/ "//'me. 




Chart XXV. This, with the seventh and the twenty-first months, are 
obviously the red-letter months of his early life. It was during 
the periods of regular living, of which these months are the best 
examples, that the finest all-round progress came in his life. 



110 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 111 

Again, for lunch, macaroni or egg custard were so 
hearty that there was little desire for milk. Of the 
cereals used, shredded wheat and wheatena take the 
lead, each being used five times, followed by oatmeal 
thrice, rice twice and hominy once. (Barley and 
farina were not used at all this week.) A quarter 
tsp. of sugar was sprinkled over the cereal as usual. 
About 4 oz. of macaroni, cooked in the water with a 
pot roast of beef, was given for four dinners, and for 
one dinner wheatena was warmed up in very thin 
beef gravy. Prunes or jelly mixed with zwiebach 
crumbs made good desserts (an average of two and 
two-thirds prunes, three times, and 1.5 tsp. jelly, six 
times). Zwiebach was served as a carrier for milk 
and prunes and jelly in about half of the meals; a 
half slice of bread was eaten at nine meals. 

No modifications had to be made to correct dis- 
turbances. 

To induce him to drink more water, I sometimes 
added prune juice to it. If he did not care to drink it 
at first, I would set it down on a low table within his 
reach, and he would take a swallow every now and 
then. He drank about 2 oz. of orange juice and 4.5 
oz. of water a day, and about 2 oz. of prune juice a 
week. 

4. Vomiting. None for the month. 

5. Sleep. He slept 61% of the entire time, sub- 
stantially the same as the previous month. The 
night nap averaged 12 hours, 0.4 hour longer than 
the previous month, and the day nap, 2.50 hours, a 
little less than the previous month (2.75 hours). No 
naps were omitted. 

6. Feces. The average interval for the feces was 
18.6 hours. Of the nine feces for the week, all were 



112 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

done in the chamber, seven were perfect and two 
were only slightly loose not sufficiently so, to re- 
quire any change in the diet. 

7. Skin. The skin was perfect throughout. Ee- 
sorcin is finally putting the scalp in perfect condition. 

8. Cold. None for the week. 

9. Hvlinrior. A series of perfect days give the 
average of 1 for the week. 

10. Crying. None for the week or month. 

11. Weicjlit. ITe weighed 28 Ibs., 2 Ibs. above the 
Holt average. 

12. Pliysical achievements. With the pressure 
of a cutting tooth removed, he is more keen and 
active. He assists himself in various ways in the 
toilet room. At times, he still refuses my help when 
going ii]) and down stairs, but most always does ac- 
cept it on the street. Pie likes to take my hand as an 
equal, but not as a dependent. He never walks or 
loiters when doing an errand for me, but always 
runs. He walks on all fours witb the knee-joint 
straight. ITe investigates everything he can reach. 
In the street, for instance, he fusses about the water 
hydrant, apparently trying to find a combination that 
will do something. He still finds new things to oper- 
ate on the typewriter, and spends much time there, 
working various mechanisms. He has not yet in any 
way injured it. He pulls the dumbwaiter up and 
down. Tins is splendid exercise for him. It is just 
heavy enough to demand all his energy. He seems 
quite as conscious as we of the dangers involved. 
(Of course, we never let him pull it unless one of us 



NINE TYPICAL MONTHS IN DETAIL 113 

is there by him.) One day he walked three-quarters 
of a mile in an hour. 1 had difficulty in getting him 
to move on, for there was always something he 
wanted to investigate; but by resorting to playing 
horse, to chasing him, to giving him toys on strings 
to pull along, and so on, I managed to go from the 
house in the middle of the block on 114th street, near 
Eiverside Drive, and along the Drive to the bridge 
at 127th street. And he was not tired out, for he 
rebelled when I put him in the carriage at that point 
to take him home. He runs faster than ever, and 
turns the sharp corner in the hall with considerable 
dexterity. We play a new game of hide-and-go-seek. 
At night we turn out the electric light, go away from 
him and call to him. Guided by our voices, he feels 
his way silently and slowly through the dark until he 
finds us. Then the light is turned on and we have a 
good laugh over the adventure. But out it goes 
again, and again he follows the voice, and so on. We 
stumbled upon this game by chance, but think it one 
of the best we play. He revels over the discovery in 
the dark, and it is such a natural way of accustoming 
him to darkness. He throws the ball very well. Tak- 
ing hold of his mother's hands, he climbs up her body 
until he stands on her shoulders. All activities are 
performed with greater facility. 

13. Teeth. Last canine tooth through; first 16 
teeth all through. 

14. Remarks. The thumb- sucking habit is not 
gone, but is weakening. He has gone to sleep several 
times without the thumb in his mouth, and does not 
resent my taking it out after he has fallen asleep, so 



114 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

we are making progress there. He seems so reason- 
able about so many things that I am hoping his sen- 
sibleness will help out in the breaking up of this 
habit. He is wearing drawers and going to bed with- 
out a diaper. He asks now to go to the toilet, and 
can wait until he gets there. 



CHAPTER III. 
SUMMARIES. 

1. Number of meals a day. (See Chart XXVI, 1.) 
The number of meals a day began with 10 and grad- 
ually diminished to three at the age of two. The re- 
duction was slow and three times was interrupted, 
but throughout the principle was to keep the interval 
as regular and as long as possible, consistent with 
the baby's appetite and other evidences of health. 

Leonard was started with the hospital regula- 
tion, 10 feedings a day (24 hours). But as this 
seemed to give him more food than he could retain, 
meals were omitted as frequently as he seemed disin- 
clined to take them, until by the end of the second 
month the number of meals was reduced to about six 
or seven a day. Thereafter the reduction continued 
very slowly, until by the end of the fifth month it was 
six meals a day, given at approximately 6 A. M., 9 
A. M., 12 M., 3 P. M., 6 P. M., with either another 
evening meal or an early morning meal. But during 
the following month (sixth), however, I found his 
hunger demanded a late evening meal again, so that 
an average of between seven and eight meals was 
reached. Then for two months, seventh and eighth, 
the average went down again to between five and six 

115 




CHART XXVI. 
11G 



SUMMARIES 117 

meals, only to rise during the following (ninth) 
month, when a late evening meal had frequently to be 
given, since otherwise he would wake hungry very 
early in the morning. This increased the average to 
six meals a day. During the three following months 
(tenth, eleventh and twelfth) there was another 
steady decrease, until by the thirteenth month only 
four meals a day were given (at about 6 A. M., 10 
A. M., 2 P. M. and 6 P. M.). This was followed by a 
slight increase with the re-introduction of the late 
evening meal, bringing the average back to five meals 
a day on the fourteenth month and remaining there 
for two months (fifteenth and sixteenth). Then 
(seventeenth month), the night meal was finally 
omitted, leaving four meals a day, and the decrease 
continued steadily, omitting gradually the afternoon 
meal at 3 o'clock, until by the twenty-fourth month 

Chart XXVI. 1. lie began at the hospital with ten meals a day. 
At the dictates of hunger, gradually eliminating meals, by 
two years of age he was satisfied with three meals a day. 

2. The night intervals in the two years gradually passed from 

six hours to twelve hours, while the day intervals went 
from two hours to four hours. And when three meals be- 
came the habit, an afternoon period of about five and a half 
hours was introduced. 

3. The time spent at the breast while nursing went from twenty 

minutes to as few as seven minutes, and then back to four- 
teen minutes. The actual time nursing began with twenty 
minutes, was gradually reduced to three and a half min- 
utes, and ended with twelve minutes a 'meal. 

He began in the ninth month with six and a half ounces 
of food a meal, which amount was gradually increased to 
about ten or eleven ounces by the second year. 

Water was given from the beginning, but was not recorded 
until the fifth month. The quantities varied from 1 to 4.3 
ounces a day. 

Orange juice was begun in the eleventh month, and from 



118 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

three meals a day became the habit breakfast, 8 
A. M,, dinner, 12 M., supper, 6 P. M. 

During the twenty-second month there was an ab- 
normal period of about three weeks, when fewer 
meals were given. The continuous line (see Chart 
XXVI, 1 ) is the average of the actual intervals ; the 
dotted line is the average during the fourth week, 
when the baby was well. 

Orange juice and water were at first given (sixth 
month) about 9 o'clock in the morning, two hours 
after the previous meal and an hour before the fol- 
lowing meal; but when the afternoon meal was 
omitted the orange juice and water was given at that 
time. Otherwise there was no food except "edu- 
cators," on certain occasions (see p. 122), given be- 
tween meals. 

2. Intervals betireen meals. (See Chart XXVI, 



an ounce to two ounces were given frequently through the 
month. 

4. He regurgitated from % to I 1 /! tbs. at from 2 to 85 times a 

month during the first ten months. The vomiting varied 
from none at all during five months to small amounts, 3 /:> 
to % tbs.. during 15 months, and four times, quite large 
amounts, from 1 to 12 tbs. 

5. He slept from 75 per cent, of the time to 54 per cent, (in (lie 

ninth month) to (50 per cent, at two years. 

<. The interval between the feces went from hours at the hos- 
pital to between 24 and 30 hours during weaning days, and 
then from 12% hours to 22 hours. 



It. P.ehavior varied from 1 (excellent) to 1.5 (half-way between 
excellent and good) . 

1O. During one month, his crying averaged .'{I minutes a day, and 
during another 2,> minutes a day. Through 14 months it 
amounted to between 1 and 10 minutes a day, and through 
7 months less than a minute a day, and for one month not 
at all. 



SUMMARIES 119 

2.) For 22 months there was a long night period and 
short day periods. For the twenty-third, twenty- 
fourth and twenty-fifth months, when the 3 o'clock, 
afternoon, meal was omitted, a third interval was 
made, longer than the previous day interval and 
shorter than the long night interval, so that it intro- 
duced a new group. (See Chart XXVI, 2.) 

The long, or night period, was begun at the hos- 
pital with an interval of six hours (10.30 P. M. to 
4.30 A. M.), but on reaching home, as the baby 
seemed hungry before the regular time, the dis- 
cipline was relaxed, shortening the average to 5%. 
hours for the second month. Three times first dur- 
ing the sixth month, again through the eighth and 
ninth months, and finally from the twelfth through 
the sixteenth months I had to replace the meals I 
was trying to eliminate, so that the increase of the 
long interval was checked at these periods. But 
after the seventeenth month there was no more 
check, rather, on the whole, a steady lengthening of 
the night interval from 13 to 13% hours. During the 
twenty-second and twenty-fourth months the inter- 
val was about 14 and 14 1 / /> hours, respectively, but 
these high averages were brought up by abnormal 
periods when his appetite was not keen. The aver- 
age for the normal weeks of these months was, in 
both cases, about 13Vo hours. 

The short interval began at the hospital with two 
hours, but soon, second month, was increased to 3% 
hours, then it returned to about 3 hours for the re- 
mainder of the first nine months. With the introduc- 
tion of the artificial food (tenth month), probably 
because he was getting more nourishment, the period 
increased to, and remained a little less than, 4 hours. 



120 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

Once (nineteenth month) it was 4 hours, and once 
(twenty-fifth month) 4y 8 hours. 

By the twenty-third month he was quite content to 
omit the afternoon meal, and the interval between 
his lunch, at noon and supper was 6.5 hours, twenty- 
third month, to about 5.5 hours, twenty-fifth month. 

3. Diet. (See Chart XXVI, 3.) 

(A) Length of time nursing. For the first 8.5 
months the baby's diet consisted exclusively of breast 
milk and water (see below under "water"). The 
quantity of milk given was determined by his ca- 
pacity to retain and digest it. 1 began by keeping 
him at the breast for 20 minutes, the hospital regula- 
tion, but I soon found he got enough in less time. To 
insure his not eating too fast, I began by making him 
rest at intervals equal to the time spent in nursing, 
so that lie would nurse only half of his feeding time. 
By the sixth month the rest time was shortened pro- 
portionately to the feeding time, and continued to be 
relatively shortened through the nursing period. 
The length of time nursing decreased rapidly 
through the first two months, then slowly through 
the next three months. The shortest average period 
was 3.5 minutes (fifth month). Then, whether be- 
cause the milk flowed less freely or the baby de- 
manded more, or was able to retain more, the amount 
increased steadily until the end of the tenth month, 
when 12 out of the 14 minutes at the breast was the 
average time nursing. 

(B) Foods, (a) Quantity. During the ninth 
month, while still nursing, artificial food was intro- 
duced. As to the quantity (see Chart XXVI, 3), he 
began with an average of 0.5 oz. a meal, one meal a 
day. The number of these meals was gradually in- 



SUMMARIES 121 

creased, while the number of breast meals decreased, 
until, toward the end of the tenth month, the breast 
meals were finally omitted. There was a drop from 
6.5 to 6.3 oz. the following month, but thence to the 
seventeenth month there was a steady increase in 
amount. Then, as more solid food was used, the 
quantity remained around 11 and 12 oz. through the 
rest of the second year. (The one drop to 9 oz., 
twenty-second month, was during a time when he had 
a cold and fever, painful teeth and was not hungry, 
but the average during the normal period of that 
month was 11.8 oz.) 

(b) Composition. Chart XXVII shows what 
foods were introduced and when, and suggests to 
what extent they were used ; that is, if the food was 
given more or less throughout the month, the line is 
continuous, but if only for a week or a few days, the 
length of the line is proportionately as long as the 
number of days it was used. 

The foods which Holt or other authorities have 
recommended were given in small quantities, one at 
a time, and results noted (for disturbances see Chart 
XXVIII, 2). Then, according as the evidences were 
favorable or unfavorable, greater or less quantities 
were tried, or the food was omitted for a while, to be 
tried again later. In this way he was introduced to 
milk, bread, cereals, fruit and meat (though very 
little of the last), and these constituted his diet for 
the first two years. 

Milk. He began (ninth month) with 10% certified 
milk (Sheffield Farms), to which milk-sugar, lime 
water and boiled water were added, and in the fol- 
lowing six days gradually passed to 1% milk, which 
was used for the following three months. During the 



122 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

thirteenth month the transition was very gradually 
made to 4% milk, and by the fourteenth month he 
was digesting straight certified milk. The change 
was then made to pasteurized milk, which he contin- 
ued to use through the twenty-fifth month, excepting 
for a few days (twenty-third month), when sterilized 
milk was tried, with unsatisfactory results. Con- 
densed milk was used during a few emergencies 
(twenty-third and twenty-fourth months), when there 
was no other milk in the house. During the twenty- 
fifth month cream was given with the cereal (it 
proved to be too rich, and had to be discontinued). 

Lime-water was added to the milk at the beginning 
(ninth month), and was discontinued after the fif- 
teenth month, except for a short period during the 
twenty-fourth month, when teething upset his di- 
gestion. 

Sugar. At Dr. McCastline's advice milk-sugar 
was used into the twentieth month and granulated 
sugar thereafter. (Granulated sugar had been tried 
in the fourteenth month, and I noted no difference 
in results.) 

Bread. The first solid food he had was home-made 
bread during the thirteenth month, thoroughly dried 
out in the oven, crisp and hard. The following month 
(fourteenth) Calhoun's unsweetened Zwieback took 
its place, and was used thenceforth with but few in- 
termissions. Crusts of bread, without being dried, 
were also used, but less than the zwieback. If the 
feces were inclined to be disturbed, that is, in any 
way but constipated, zwieback took preference over 
bread. He also had a little toast (twenty-third 
month). 

Crackers. At intervals he had Educator crackers. 




Chart XXVII. 

Note. Breast milk feedings continued with other milk. 

The slow change from 10% to 1% to 4% milk. 

The quick return to Pasteurized milk after a short unsuccessful trial of 
sterilized milk. 

No difference noted in the use of milk sugar and granulated sugar. 

Variety of cereals, of which Barley, Farina and Wheatena were the 
favorites. 

Egg a good stand-by. 

Macaroni cooked with beef a favorite. 

Sweet chocolate (Baker's Caracas) well liked. 

Water and orange juice welcomed regularly. 

Aside from 16 tbs. of castor oil, in the two years, only one full dose of 
medicine was given (8 gray powder tablets, a doctor's prescription). 



SUMMARIES 125 

When trying to omit a meal, or when the quantity of 
food was reduced because of intestinal disturbances, 
and Leonard would be hungry before meal time, I 
found that a few crackers would often satisfy him. 
But at no other times did he have them between 
meals. Huntley and Palmer's Breakfast Biscuit 
were delicious, but expensive. 

Cereals. Robinson's Prepared Barley was the 
"old reliable" cereal from the ninth through the 
twentieth months, and even after that time it had to 
be resorted to occasionally, as during the twenty- 
fourth month, when a difficult tooth was erupting, 
making the movements loose. At first the barley was 
prepared very thin as a gruel (1 tbs. (rounded) to 1 
pt. water), but gradually it was made thicker, until 
it was of the consistency of stiff jelly (2 tbs. to 1 pt. 
water) . When introducing a new cereal I mix it with 
a little barley for the first few times. 

Farina, introduced in the fifteenth month, grad- 
ually displaced barley as the most easily digested 
cereal, and it was used, as barley had been, as a basis 
for introducing other new cereals. 

Cream of ivheat proved good, but was not used as 
much as farina. 

Prepared wheat flour was also good, but, for no 
particular reason, was dropped after a first trial. 

Oatmeal tended to make the feces loose, and was 
resorted to when necessary for that purpose. Sev- 
eral attempts, beginning during the tenth month, 
were made to introduce it, but a few consecutive 
meals of it always resulted disastrously, and it had 
to be given at long intervals, in alternation with 
other, more constipating foods. I persisted with 



126 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

oatmeal to make the diet more varied; finally it was 
handled well. 

Wheatena, tried first with barley in the seven- 
teenth month, was easily digested, and I noticed that 
it frequently brought the color to his cheeks. It 
loosened up the feces, though not so much as oat- 
meal. It was successful when alternated with cream 
of wheat or farina. 

Hominy, introduced in the eighteenth month, had 
to be used very sparingly. I believe it caused one 
very bad attack of indigestion, but that may have 
been because it was warmed over and not broken up 
fine enough so that too large pieces were swallowed 
whole without chewing. 

Rice, started in the eighteenth month, was a reliable 
food and easily digested, though tending to be consti- 
pating. 

Shredded wheat was a favorite from the time of 
its introduction (twenty-second month). The intes- 
tines handled it with about the same results as 
wheatena, only the shredded wheat was a little less 
loosening. 

Triscuit, too, was tried (eighteenth month), and 
its effects were like those of shredded wheat. 

Fruits. Prunes and apple sauce (from the twen- 
tieth month on), apple jelly (twenty-first month) and 
stewed peaches (twenty-third month) all digested 
well. The fruits, especially prunes, tended to make 
the feces less compact. They were sometimes served 
with broken-up crumbs of zwiebach. 

Puddings. Custard (twentieth month), tapioca, 
rice puddings (twenty-first month) and bread pud- 
ding were all easily digested. 

Eggs. After the twentieth month he handled eggs 



SUMMARIES 127 

well. They were cooked by standing in hot water 
until coagulated (about five minutes), then served 
on hot rice, hominy or shredded wheat. 

Beef, chopped fine (after the twentieth month), 
was not a favorite, nor did it prove very digestible. 
Probably he did not chew it fine enough. 

Macaroni cooked ivith beef, given after the twenty- 
second month, was well liked and well digested; it 
served, in alternation with egg, as a dinner dish. 
Beef cooked in this way, long and slowly in a fireless 
cooker, was readily digested. 

Rice cooked with chicken (twenty-fourth month) 
was a favorite dish. 

Beef and barley soup (twenty-fourth month) was 
enjoyed, but I was not sure as to how it digested. 

Baker's sweet chocolate (twenty-fifth month), 
given at the close of dinner, proved both palatable 
and digestible. 

The following foods digested perfectly well, but 
happened to be given only once or twice, though 
there was no obvious reason why they should not 
have been eaten more freely : 

White grapes (twentieth month, twenty-second 

month). 

Japanese rice cakes (twenty-first month). 
Apple tapioca (twenty-second month). 
Grape juice, unfermented (twenty-second 

month). 

Sweet potato (twenty-second month). 
On the other hand, the following foods either did 
not agree with him or he did not like them : 

Beef juice was tried three times (nineteenth 

month), but not liked. 
Mutton broth was tried three times (twenty- 



128 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

second month), but not liked, and as Dr. 
McCastline said he did not seem to be in need 
of such food, I did not further urge him to 
eat it. 

Celery (twenty-third month) was badly di- 
gested. 

Chicken soup (twenty-third month) was ap- 
parently too rich. It made the feces a very 
bright yellow. 

Dr. Thomas' uncooked bread (twentieth month) 
was tasted while a friend was eating some, but 
in about 12 hours the feces were very loose. 
However much some people may be benefited 
by this bread, evidently Leonard did not 
need it. 

Soap and raw beef (thirteenth month), to which 
the lad had helped himself in an unguarded 
moment, and which did not digest well. 
(C) Liquids. (See Charts XXVI, 3, and XXVII.) 
I did not begin to note the quantity of water given 
until the fifth month. Prom the fifth month to the 
tenth month the average was 2 oz. a day, varying 
from 1.25 to 2.5 oz. From the eleventh to the twenty- 
second month the average was 3.75 oz. a day, varying 
from 2 to 4.3 oz. During the thenty-third month 
there was a decided lessening in amount; lie drank 
only 10.5 oz. during the entire month. He did not 
seem to care for it. The next month was again ex- 
ceptional, but in the other way. On two days he 
drank about 37 oz. This excessive amount was taken 
to clean out the stomach after an attack of vomiting. 
On 17 other days of that month, however, an average 
of 2 oz. were taken. The twenty-fifth month was 
normal agnin, averaging 4.5 oz. daily. 



SUMMAKIES 129 

Orange juice. (See Charts XXVI, 3, and XXVII.) 
He began having orange juice during the eleventh 
month. Thence through the sixteenth month he had 
about an ounce at a time, though not every day- 
only about a third of the time. Several times I dis- 
continued the orange juice when I feared it might be 
causing trouble, though I never could prove that it 
did. From the seventeenth to the twentieth months 
1.5 oz. a day for about two-thirds of the time, and 
from the twenty-first to the twenty-fifth months 2 oz. 
a day for about two-thirds of the time, were given. 

The orange juice and water were always given be- 
tween meals, about two hours after the previous meal 
and an hour before the following meal, when the 
meals were three hours apart. At first they were 
given in the morning, later in the afternoon. 

Prune juice. (See Chart XXVII.) After the fif- 
teenth month diluted prune juice was given only 16 
times in all, about an ounce each time, in place of the 
orange juice for that day. 

(D) Medication. (See Chart XXVII.) Ten 
minims of castor oil and 5 minims of syrup of rhu- 
barb, given at the hospital, together with 16 tsp. of 
castor oil and 13 gray-powder tablets, given at home, 
are all the medicine he took during these first two 
years ; of the latter only one full dose (8 tablets) was 
given. 

4. (A) Regurgitation. (See Chart XXVI, 4a.) I 
know that the peristaltic movement of the alimentary 
canal and careless handling of the baby directly 
after feeding are two causes of regurgitation, and 
that regurgitation does not necessarily indicate that 
the food has been indigestible or excessive. Yet, by 
actual experience, I found that he did have enough 



130 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

when he began to regurgitate. It looked as if the 
amount regurgitated indicated the excess over his 
needs. 

He regurgitated only during the first 10 months. 
The amount was greatest during the second month, 
about 60 tbs. in all, and was followed by generally 
decreasing amounts through the 10th month, being- 
interrupted only twice (fifth and tenth months) by 
slight increases. 

(B) Vomiting. (See Chart XXVI, 41..) There 
was a steady increase of vomiting through the sixth 
month, when a total of 45 tbs. was reached. The 
seventh month dropped to 25 tbs., and during the 
following six months the amount was from 2.3 to 6 
tbs. a month. After this, six of the months were free 
from vomiting. Daring four months it was from 2 
to 5 tbs., and one month was 18 tbs. The worst 
month was the twenty-fourth, when a severe attack 
of vomiting brought the amount up to about 96 tbs. 
There were three bad attacks of vomiting, one each 
during the fifteenth, the nineteenth and the twenty- 
fourth month, when the stomach seemed to empty 
itself completely. The first attack may possibly 
have been due to sour barley, though it did not taste 
sour to me. I was unable to locate a cause for the 
second; hominy may have caused the third attack. 
All three may, however, have been caused by teeth- 
ing. A fast, followed by a diet of the most easily 
digested food, given in small quantities, was the 
treatment that followed these three attacks. Other- 
wise, the vomiting was slight. As in the case of 
regurgitations, vomiting was a warning to question 
the quantity and quality of the food. 

5. Sleep. (See Chart XXVI, 5.) In sleep, too, 



SUMMAKIES 131 

were to be found indications of the baby's physical 
condition. Intestinal pain, cold, hunger, thirst and 
toothache all have disturbed his slumbers. 

The total time spent asleep averaged during the 
first five months 73%, during the next seven months 
56%, and during the second year about 60%. Inci- 
dentally I might say he was never rocked to sleep, 
but was put in his bed and left alone. During the 
seventh month I noted on six different occasions that 
he cried when he was put down to go to sleep, twice 
for 15 minutes, four times for 5 minutes. As there 
seemed at the time to be nothing else to make him 
cry, and as he soon stopped when no attention was 
paid to him, I concluded that he was crying merely 
for personal attention. (See Charts VII and VIII, 
"F.") Of course, he did not get the attention, so 
he soon gave up crying for it. 

I have made no separate table showing when his 
sleep occurred, but it is noted on each of the monthly 
charts by the line at the right of the interval line. 
He began by sleeping after every feeding, and the 
charts show that during the entire third month there 
were only six times when he did not sleep after nurs- 
ing. By the fifth month he remained awake for an 
average of one interval a clay the late afternoon 
period. Naps were gradually omitted between day 
meals, until, by the eleventh month, he was taking 
only the long night sleep and one day nap in the 
afternoon, and this continued to be the rule through 
the second year. 

6. Feces. (See Chart XXVI, 6.) 

(A) Frequency. Provided that the feces re- 
mained normal, the interval between them did not 
of itself seem to offer in this particular case any evi- 




Chart XXVIII. In part 1 are recorded the character of the feees. If the 
feces were not perfect, in some cases, I could guess what caused the 
trouble. These supposed causes are recorded in part 2, and the remedies 
for the trouble in part 3. For instance, in the column under slightly 
loose, SY (1), I pick out several times as causes oatmeal, teething, 
excessive milk. Running down same column to part 3, where the 
remedies are suggested, I see in the corresponding spaces (numbered 
by months) for "oatmeal," "return to barley" ; for "excessive milk," 
"milk reduced" ; for "teething," "food reduced and diluted, barley, 
farina, cream of wheat and zwiebach" given. In the same way for 
the slightly constipated feces, SY(c) I note that excessive food and 
excessive barley were suggested as the cause, and that the quantity of 
food was reduced and oatmeal was given. 

132 




Chart XXIX. Note the high percentage (65%) of perfect feces, and 
in 28% more the disturbances were only slight. Practically only 
7% were bad, and, computing from other data, nearly half of 
these came after castor oil or gray powder tablets had been 
given. 



133 



134 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

dence of trouble, unless it was that the too frequent 
feces meant too much food. Once a feces which came 
after a period of 50 hours (twenty-second week, first 
day) was pronounced perfect by a physician. An- 
other time after 70 hours (twenty-seventh week, 
fourth day) a perfect feces came, and there have 
been other long periods, over 24 hours, followed by 
good feces. Or, again, there have been as many as 
three or four small movements a day; but if all were 
good, and were at the same time unaccompanied by 
any evidence of indigestion, no change was made in 
the diet. The average time-interval for the feces 
during the two years has been 21 hours. 

To start a desire to evacuate, particularly if it 
were time for a movement, I have sometimes used 
soap suppositories. 

The interval between the feces was shortest during 
the first month, 9 hours. Then for the following 8 
months the interval was longest, ranging from 24 
hours to 36 hours, averaging one in 28 hours. For 
the following three months (ninth, tenth and elev- 
enth), when the weaning began and the new food was 
being introduced, the average interval was less, IQ 1 ^ 
hours, and it was still less for the remainder of the 25 
months, ranging from 12 hours to 20 hours, and av- 
eraging about 16 hours. 

(B) Character. Sometimes the mouth and stom- 
ach would pass food that the intestines could not 
handle successfully. The feces then furnished an- 
other check to the diet. What has seemed to me to be 
a normal feces in this case, and therefore a reliable 
evidence that all the food was thoroughly digested, 
had the following characteristics: In color it was a 
dull yellow, light at first, growing darker as more 



(0 



CO 



cy 



CO 



(X 




X:^.-^ V0<f= 

4M'5|ji 

** fVr: trti'J W ' 



Z. 

3. 



irt ^O 



* 



a 



CO 



in 



CO 



CO 



cO 




ll 



O o 

.a aS 



QJ C0|_| 0) 



52 



134a 



SUMMARIES 135 

solid foods were taken;* in texture it was smooth 
like thick cream or soft mud, but not like pot cheese, 
broken up into curds ; in consistency, at first it was 
as thin as cream, but later more like thin paste or 
like modeling clay. I noticed also that in the same 
feces the color and consistency would frequently 
vary. The first part of the feces to leave the rectum 
would sometimes be darker, more compact and some- 
times folded, or rarely separated into balls, whereas 
the last would be lighter, less compact and unfolded, 
but this variation, I was told, was no evidence of in- 
digestion so long as all was smooth. The explana- 
tion was that the longer the feces remained in the 
rectum, the darker and more compact, or dryer, it 
became. As to the odor, in the earlier months it 
somewhat resembled that of lima-bean soup ; later it 
was stronger, quite characteristic, but not offensive. 
In the abnormal feces these elements were modi- 
fied little or much, according to the character of the 
disturbance. The only changes in the color that I 
noted were a bright yellow, caused, so the doctors 
consulted told me, by excessive fat in the formula, a 
matter easily corrected, and a modification of the 
yellow by green, varying from the slightest amount 
of green in the yellow to an excessive amount that 



""Incidentally, I should like to suggest that the following contri- 
bution to the science of baby culture might be of value: namely, 
records from which charts would later be made of the colors of the 
feces, both normal and abnormal. That a mother should be shown 
what to expect in this matter is, I believe, quite as important as 
that she should know what to expect in the matter of weight and 
growth generally. In fact, who knows but it may be more impor- 
tant as a guide in feeding than the tables of weight? I noted the 
changes in color by certain letters, but a color chart of colored 
papers or paint would have made the record more accurate, and 
in preparing a chart as a guide would tell the story better. 







^ 

SR 



oO 




a c/3 

2 c 



S * 

g O gj -S 

P 5 <i> -5 

8 2 - 

S o o 



K ~ O 

C T3 C fj 

O K 

g ^ 2 = 







5 = H 



13G 



SUMMARIES 137 

made it a yellowish green. This green always 
aroused my suspicions that something too difficult 
to digest had been eaten, and since only one new 
thing was introduced at a time, I could generally 
locate the disturbing element at once and omit it for 
the next meal or meals. During the nursing period 
I sometimes thought I could trace the disturbance to 
what I had eaten. 

When the texture was changed by being badly 
curdled or slimy, it was corrected by modifying the 
food, generally radical. The feces were slimy 14 
times, but six of these were after castor oil had been 
taken. Sometimes the consistency was modified by 
becoming either watery (loose) or else very com- 
pact (constipated). There was little variation in 
this respect while nursing. Later barley and zwie- 
bach tended to correct the loose feces; oatmeal and 
wheatena the constipated one. If nothing else inter- 
fered, a diet compounded of these foods kept the 
feces about normal. 

While the teeth were working their way through 
the feces were repeatedly made loose. 

All disturbances were accompanied by offensive 
smells. 

Chart XXIX summarizes clearly the character 
of the feces and shows that the perfect feces (SY, 
smooth, yellow, first row) were in excess (65%) of 
the irregular ones. The next largest group, 1?>.8%- 
SY (1), smooth, yellow, but a trifle loose were those 
that were slightly loose, but otherwise were perfect. 
They began with the introduction of artificial milk 
(between the ninth and tenth months), and teething 
also kept some of the feces loose. Another group of 
3% SY (c), smooth, yellow, but slightly consti- 



138 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

pated were slightly constipated, but otherwise nor- 
mal. Then follows a group of three (cSY, slightly 
curdled and yellow, 2.3% ; SgY, smooth, but the yel- 
low slightly greenish, 4.4%, and cSgY, both slightly 
curdled and greenish, 4.5%, in all 11.2%, which were 
either slightly curdled or slightly greenish, or a little 
of both. These slight irregularities appeared in 28% 
of all movements. Added to the 65 per cent, of per- 
fect feces. there remain about 7% of the feces that 
were more than slightly curdled or greenish, or were 
also loose, or even watery or slimy. (This does not 
include the feces from the third to the seventh weeks, 
during which time no record was kept.) 

What I thought caused these irregularities, and 
what was done to correct them, Chart XXYIIT, 1, 2 
and -), show. The following is a summary of this 
chart : 

((-.) Causc* of Jrrcf/uhiritics nud Remedies. 
I. Before Weaning (First Month to Eighth Month). 

During the first eight months, not including a period of about 
six weeks, during which time no records were kept, there were 180 
evacuations, of which 80 were imperfect (see Chart XXXV), and 
of these latter 22 were accounted for by the following things which 
I ate, and the following remedies (see Chart XXXVI) were ap- 
plied to correct these disturbances : 



SUMMARIES 



139 



Character of Fcccs and Cause | ! 
of Trouble. 



*1 cSY, apple sauce I had 

eaten. 
1 cSY. tomatoes I had eaten. 

1 cSgY, .peaches I had eaten. 

2 cSgY, tart prunes I had 

eaten. 
o f 4 cSgY 

(4 SgY excessive olive oil 
I had eaten. 

r f 3 SgY 

\ 2 cSgY excessive cream I 

had eaten. 
4 f 2 SgY 

| 2 cSgY excessive corn- 
meal I had 
eaten. 



Remedied by My 

Omitting apple sauce. 

tomatoes, 
peaches, 
tart prunes. 

.Eating less olive oil. 

" cream. 
" " cornmeal. 



II. During the Weaning Period (Ninth Month to Tenth Month). 

During the ninth and tenth months, when the haby was having 
both breast and bottle foods, there were !)3 t'eces, of which 34 were 
imperfect. Of these latter 17 were accounted for as shown below, 
and the following remedies were applied : 



Character of Feccs and 
Cause of Trouble. 

(a) Mother's milk. 

1 SgY, peaches I had eaten. | Mother omitted peaches. 
(M Other food. 



1 SY (1), excessive food. 
. ( 3 SGY excessive 

4 I 1 CgY (1) milk. 



f ^ 
J K 



Slimy, too little barley. 
^ SY ( 



castor oil and 

"'" 



lie omitted one meal. 
Plain barley and castor oil. 

{Castor oil and gray pwd. tab. 
Plain barley. 
A fast. 
Breast meals. 

C Discontinue castor oil and 
( gray pwd. tab. 



*For abbreviations used, see p. lo. 

III. From the Eleventh Month to the Twenty-fifth Month. 
From the time when the baby was weaned (the eleventh month) 
until the twenty-fifth month (over two years), there were G39 



140 



HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 



evacuations, of which 202 were imperfect. Of these latter, 127 
were Mccounled for a ml remedied as follows: 



Character of Fccc* and Cause 
of Trouble. 

35 SY (1), teething. 

SY (1), oatmeal. 

4 SY (1), wheatena. 

1 SY (1), shredded wheat 

and wheatena. 

2 SY (1), Dr. Thomas' un- 

cooked hread. 

3 SY (c), farina. 
1 SY (c), barley. 



14 <j 2 



SgY (1) 

Slimy y castor oil. 

CgY 

CY (1) 

cSY, castor oil & gr. pwd. 

CgY (1), castor oil. 

SY (1) 

SY (c) ^ excess, food. 

SgY (1) 



rs SY (i) 

i 1 SyG 

2 CY (1) 
14 '} 1 Slimy 
! 1 cSY (1) 



excess, milk. 



1 cSY J 

CgY ( I ) sterilized milk. 

1 Boiled milk. CY (1). 

."i Straight milk, excessive 
food or orange. 

3 Celery, bread or milk. 

2 cSY, Beef. 

4 SY (1), sour barley. (?) 

1 SgY*, peach juice. 

3 Watery after vomiting. 

4 2 SY (1) ] 

1 cSgY I soap or beef. 
1 cSG (1) J 



Remedy, 

("Foods tending to constipate 
j used chiefly, but food also 
[ reduced and diluted. 

Returned to barley. 

Returned to barley. 

Returned to farina. 

Omit this bread. 

Returned to oatmeal. 
Returned to oatmeal. 



Omitted castor 
pwd. tab. 



oil and gr. 



Food reduced and diluted. 

Food reduced. 

Food reduced and diluted. 

1. Plain barley. 

2. Milk reduced. 

5. Milk reduced and diluted. 
Milk reduced. 
Milk reduced and diluted. 
Milk reduced. 
Milk reduced and plain 

barley. 

Plain barley, diluted. 
Back to pasteurized milk. 
Discontinued boiling milk. 
Limewater for eight days, 
food reduced, orange omit- 
ted. 

Omitted celery : 
place of bread 
milk in place 
milk. 

Omitted beef. 
( Castor oil ; omitted 
| reduced food. 
Omitted peach juice. 
Food reduced and diluted. 



10 per cent, milk and food 
diluted. 



; zwieback in 
; pasteurized 
of sterilized 



SUMMARIES 141 

In general, the method of treatment was as fol- 
lows: If the feces were curdled, greenish, too fre- 
quent, too constipated or in any way abnormal, I 
looked for the cause of the trouble first in the food. 
If it could be located there, the change was made in 
the diet that I felt most certain would correct the 
disturbances. But if the cause seemed to be teething 
(when the feces were inclined to be loose), then the 
diet was confined to dried bread, barley, farina and 
other constipating foods, and no new experiments 
were made. When the baby began to take artificial 
food, each new food given was introduced in small 
quantities, one new one at a time, and the results 
watched for and noted. If his intestines could con- 
tinue to turn out a smooth, yellow feces, and there 
were no other evidences of disturbance, a little more 
of the same food was given the next day and the re- 
sults noted. But if the intestines failed properly to 
digest the food, I concluded that it was because they 
had been called upon to perform too difficult a task, 
and went back to a simple formula. If the disturb- 
ance was great, then I went back to the most easily 
digested food, to that formula which I knew his in- 
testines could handle perfectly, and continued its use 
until a perfect movement, or at least a better move- 
ment resulted. Then I began again with the new 
food, this time increasing it more slowly or making 
it more dilute. Five times it seemed best to use medi- 
cation, and castor oil was given. (The other times 
when castor oil was used it was as a preventative 
when he had a cold.) 

I began in the third month to accustom the baby 
to the use of the chamber. In the matter of the feces, 
for 10 of the early months, the third and fourth, 



342 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth, and the fifteenth, 
sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth months, the 
average caught in the chamber was one-sixth of the 
total number. The exceptional months were the 
fifth and sixth, the eleventh and twelfth, and the thir- 
teenth and fourteenth months, when the average was 
between one-third and one-half. But from the nine- 
teenth month on the progress was steady from 
one-half for three months to five-sixths, to two- 
thirds, to three-fourths, and finally in the twenty- 
fifth month all were caught in the chamber. He had 
learned to ask in time. As to his urinating, I have 
kept no record, but 1 began to accustom him to 
urinate in the chamber during the third month. I 
held him over his chamber, some time within half an 
hour after eating or drinking (unless he were asleep) 
and immediately upon waking. The first dry day 
came when he was 22 months 2 days old. Twice that 
day he had asked, but the other times I had taken him. 
From 22 months 5 days to 22 months 1 week 5 days 
was the first week of dry nights. On 22 months .1. 
week 5 days he got his first spanking for wetting his 
diaper, and had the awfulness of a wet diaper duly 
impressed upon him. During the twenty-third month 
he would ask to go after he had begun to urinate. 
But by two years lie had learned to ask, and to ask in 
time, and to control the muscles involved, so that he 
could wear drawers instead of diapers. 

7. Skin. (See Chart XXX.) 

(A) Regular treatment. The regular treatment 
for the skin was as follows: The flesh was washed 
daily and kept clean with ivory soap. The tempera- 
ture of the water at first was 97, but after the fifth 
month was gradually reduced to 92. A powder of 



SUMMARIES 143 

cornstarcli and boric acid (2 to 1) was used at first 
all over the body, but later only where necessary, 
that is, where flesh touched flesh, or where flesh 
would get wet. But the powder would ball up 
when it got wet, leaving the flesh exposed, which 
meant chafing as soon as moisture came, and it 
seemed as if the friction of these balls of powder 
also helped to make the flesh sore. So instead of using 
the powder on these sore places, zinc ointment, which 
is not affected by moisture and which, therefore, 
keeps the tender flesh covered, was used, and proved 
to be much more satisfactory than powder about the 
genital organs. 

For the eyes an eye wash of 1 tsp. of boracic acid 
to 1 cup of water was used daily for about six 
months, and again during the twenty-fourth month, 
when the cold made a little matter form in the eyes. 

The ears were cleaned daily, or when necessary, 
with a little albolene on some absorbent cotton 
wrapped around the end of a toothpick. 

The nose was cleaned daily with a little albolene 
on some absorbent cotton wrapped around the end 
of a toothpick, and if the baby w T ere going where he 
would be likely to be exposed to contagious diseases, 
after the tenth month he was sprayed with mucol. 
even though he had no indication of a cold. But this 
did not happen very frequently. 

The scalp was washed daily with soap and water 
until it became sore. Whether I used too much soap 
or did not wash the soapsuds all out, I do not know, 
but after it became sore it was washed with soap 
only about once a month, and when well again, once 
a week. 

(B) Evidences of trouble and special treatment. 



29 
*8 
27 
26 
25 
2- 
23 
2i 

a/ 

M 

; 
/7 
/6 


/I 



^ei (jh~f- 



//off- /Ac aotttJ //ne 'nd, cares. // 

^^^^.^ ,vr;^4 ff ; 



Chart XXXII. Weaning, teething, and two winter colds retarded the 

weight. 



144 



SUMMARIES 145 

The evidences of disorder in the skin are grouped 
under six heads: .1, Rash; 2, Pimples; 3, Sore scalp; 
4, Sore face ; 5, Flesh rough (sore) ; 6, Sore about the 
anus,. In the columns following these items is re- 
corded the number of days each lasted. Under pim- 
ples the number of pimples is also recorded. 

The treatment for these disorders was either local 
or systemic, or both. There were four ways in which 
the diet was modified (see Chart XXX) : The food 
was reduced; oatmeal was omitted; only barley was 
used, and meat was omitted. And there were 11 
curatives used on the skin : White vaseline, albolene, 
salt baths, zinc ointment, cold cream, violet emollient, 
lanoline, oil of cade, sulphur, olive oil, and resorcin. 

After each of these 15 remedies for the skin I have 
placed the number of the particular disorder for 
which it was used. For instance, after "salt baths " 
is the number 5. Referring back to number 5, 1 read, 
"Flesh, rough sore," etc. Or, working the table the 
other way, for pimples (No. 2), I see they w r ere 
treated in the third and fifth months by a reduction 
of the food, and in the twenty-first month by zinc 
ointment. 

Summarizing the skin affections in this way, the 
rash lasted in all 23.5 days. Ordinarily the daily use 
of powder was sufficient to heal it, though once 
(thirteenth month) food was reduced, and once (sev- 
enteenth month) plain barley was used and zinc oint- 
ment applied. For the pimples, of which there ap 
peared 19, which lasted in all 7.5 days, on the third 
month the food was reduced, and on the twenty-first 
month zinc ointment was applied. For the sore scalp 
food was reduced in the fifth month (though prob- 
ably without effect) ; white vaseline was used in the 



.c: 




140 



SUM-MARIES 147 

third, fifth, seventh, eighth and twelfth months; 
liquid albolene in the twenty-third month (tended to 
make scalp more itchy) ; zinc ointment in the sixth 
and eighth months; cold cream (frequently mixed 
with vaseline) in the sixth and twelfth months; lano- 
line and oil of cade (doctor's prescription) in the 
twelfth month; lanoline, oil of cade and sulphur, 
thirteenth month (this cleaned up all the sores) ; 
olive oil in thirteenth, twenty- fourth and twenty-fifth 
months was not satisfactory, as it made scalp itchy; 
resorcin (doctor's prescription) was used in the 
twenty-fifth month. For sore face (seemed to be 
sore like the scalp) there was tried reduced diet, fifth, 
sixth and ninth months; white vaseline, fifth, eighth, 
ninth, tenth and eleventh months; zinc ointment, 
sixth, eighth, ninth and tenth months; cold cream, 
sixth, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh months; 
violet emollient, tenth, eleventh and twelfth months, 
after which it got well. (Several times both scalp 
and face would get entirely well, and then in an un- 
guarded moment he would scratch them sore again.) 
For rough or sore flesh, reduced diet, fifth month; a 
fast in the twenty-first month, and white vaseline 
during the fifth, seventh, eighth and twenty-first 
months ; albolene, fifth month : salt baths, fifth, sixth 
and seventh months. For soreness about anus, re- 
duced food, fifteenth month, and omitted oatmeal, 
fourteenth month. 

8. Colds. (See Chart XXXI.) 

(A) Frequency. Leonard had a slight cold when 
he left the hospital, and had had a dose of castor oil 
and rhubarb administered to him there. From then 
(February) until the following November he was 
free from colds. Through the day and often late into 



X 



te 



^ 

sfe 




US 



SUMMAKIES 149 

the night, practically all that summer, he slept in his 
bassinet, securely fastened, on the window sill. His 
colds (and even the least sniffling has been considered 
a cold) did not begin until the steam heat was on in 
November, and he had to spend more of his time in- 
doors. From February to November of his second 
year, excepting four days, he was again free from 
colds. The colds came in November and January 
of his first year, and in November, December and 
January of his second year. In all they covered 62 
days, or 8% of the total time. 

(B) Treatment. In every case the first thing I 
did was to cut down the food and then to get the f eces 
in perfect condition. Six times out of 8, castor oil 
was given; twice gray-powder tablets (though not 
enough, I learned later, to have had any effect) ; three 
times when there was difficulty in breathing, a mus- 
tard bath ; and once when a little cough seemed obsti- 
nate, some pills (antimony and ipecac, 1-100 of a 
grain of each), prescribed by Dr. McCastline. 

For local treatment, for the second cold later, 
mucol was used at the first symptom. If mucol did 
not check the cold, then menthol and albolene were 
dropped in the nose. Three times when he began to 
be hoarse a mustard plaster was put on the chest, 
and once for that first long cold, when he coughed 
for a long while and could not seem to get his breath, 
the fumes of compound tincture of benzoine were 
inhaled. 

9. Behavior. (See p. 116, Chart XXVI, 9.) To 
what extent mental dispositions may influence a 
baby's digestion, or a baby's digestion may influence 
his mental dispositions, I do not know, but I am con- 
vinced that there is a very close connection there. 



s 




150 



SUMMARIES 151 

At any rate, restlessness, particularly when it 
reached the stage of crossness, and still more, crying, 
pointed another finger at troubles of the digestive 
tract. Crying, except that caused by hunger or pain 
in teething, or the desire to be with folks, or to be 
taken up, came, I believe, only as a warning that a 
change in diet was needed. 

Once, sixth month, the baby's behavior was half- 
way between good and excellent; twice, second 
month and twelfth month, it was .4 away from excel- 
lent; once, ninth month, it was .3 away from excel- 
lent; four times, third, fourth, fifth and tenth 
months, it was .2 away, and twice, seventh and fif- 
teenth months, it was one-eighth away. But for the 
remaining 13 months it averaged only some him- 
dredths (.06) away from excellent, and for the last 
week, when all the first 16 teeth were finally through, 
his behavior was excellent. 

10. Crying. (See p. 116, Chart XXVI, 10.) 
(A) Causes. In recording the crying I have not 
included those times he cried when hurt by falling, 
but have noted only the crying from other causes. 
For at least 10 months (tenth, twelfth, fourteenth, 
fifteenth, sixteenth, nineteenth, twenty-first, twenty- 
second, twenty-third and twenty-fourth months) 
probably most of the crying was caused by teething 
pains, judging from the facts that he drooled, kept 
his fingers in his mouth, and that tannic acid rubbed 
on the gums brought relief. Three times he cried 
while vomiting or doing feces. Again, seventh and 
twentieth months, he cried for company when put to 
bed. During the sixth and ninth months the cause 
was probably wrong feeding. Twice, fifteenth and 
eighteenth months, it was because of a wet diaper. 



152 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

During the twentieth month he cried after castor oil 
had been taken, and during the nineteenth month I 
believe he fretted because he was hungry. These 
were the most evident causes for his tears, though 
frequently I was at a loss for an explanation. 

(B) Frequency. During 16 months (fifth, eighth, 
eleventh, and from the thirteenth to the twenty-fifth) 
the average was less than one minute a clay (0.8). For 
six months (fourth, sixth, seventh, ninth, tenth and 
twelfth) the average was 7.4 minutes a day; for the 
third month 23, and for the second month 37 minutes 
a day. 

10. Weight and oilier measurements. (See Chart 
XXXII.) Growth w<is fastest during the first six 
months. Throughout it was impeded in proportion 
to the irregularities in his general condition. The 
first weight was taken at the hospital ; 1 took those 
following up to September, 1908; Dr. McCastline 
took the rest. (The dotted line is the Holt average.) 
All weights were taken without clothes. 

Leonard started 0.4 of a pound below the Holt 
average, but the difference steadily decreased until 
by the end of the month he was up to the standard. 
Later for 3.5 months (middle of January, through 
April, 1909) he was 0.5 pound or less below it. 
Thereafter he was above. In August, 1908, and in 
November, 1909, he was about 2.5 pounds above the 
Holt average. 

Teething and a cold account for loss of weight in 
September, October, November, December, 1908, and 
in November, December, 1909, and January and Feb- 
ruary, 1910. 

After September, 1908, Dr. McCastline took 17 
other careful measurements, and these, together with 



SUMMARIES 



153 



a few measurements taken at birth at the hospital, 
such as those of the head, length of the body and 
girth of neck, are recorded in the following charts : 

XXXIII. Length of Body and Foot. 

XXXIV. Head Measurements. 
XXXV. Girth of Neck. 

XXXVI. Girths of Head, Ninth Rib, Hips, Chest 

and Waist. 

XXXVII. Breadth of Shoulders, Ninth Bib, Hips 
and Chest, and Depth of Abdomen 
and Chest. 

The following list of these items shows the first 
and last measurements taken in each case and the 
relative gain in two years, or from the ninth to the 
twenty-fourth month : 



At Birth. At 2 Years. 

Weight 7 pounds. 28 pounds. 

19.5 inches. 33.4 inches. 
4.4 " 5.25 

3.75 5.45 

4.8 " 6.8 

5.25 " 7.75 

rs.i% so.0% 

22.5 



Breadth . . . 

Fronto-occ. y Head 

Occ. Ment. 

Cephalic index. 

Circ. Neck . . 14.5 



Gain 

in Per 

Cent. 

300 

71 

19 

45 

42 

41 
1.0 



At 7 Months. 



Breadth. 



f Shoulders 
J Chest . . . . 



5.4 

| Ninth 11 ib 5.9 

[ Hips 5.6 

Dentil J Chest 4 - T 

Jepm ' [ Abdomen 4.7 

fllead 18.1 

I Chest 16.5 

\ Ninth Rib 17.2 

Waist 16.1 

[ Hips 16.6 



8.6 

6.4 

6.6 

6.5 

5.05 

5.2 

19.5 

19.1 

19.6 

18.6 

18.6 



25 
19 
12 
16 

7 
11 

8 
15 
14 
15 
12 




It 



a* 

eS J3~ 

* s 

o S 



*" t> 

05 O 



CO i> 

a 2 

S rj 



154 



SUMMARIES 155 

12. Physical achievements. (See Plates I, II and 
III.) As a matter of general observation, it seemed 
that the periods of greatest physical activity were 
coexistent with the periods of the most perfect 
health, and activity diminished during other times 
in direct ratio to the physical irregularities. 

The following is the order in which and the dates 
when the activities were mastered: 

First Month: 

(3.5 W.). Lying on his stomach, he held up his head, as in p. 17G, 
Plate I, No. 2. 

Second Month: 
Held up head more steadily. 

Third Month: 
(10 W.). Smiled. 
(12 W. 2 D.). Laughed aloud. 

Fourth Month: 

(15 W. ID.). Sat up alone for about two minutes. 

(15 W. 4 D.). Found his hands, after several days' trial. 

(10 W. 4 D.). I held him up by his feet. (See p. 17C>, Plate I, 

No. 3.) 

(16 W. 2 D.). Reached out and caught hold of scales. 

(17 W. ID.). Held him suspended by his arms. 

Fifth Month: 
(17 W. 4 D. ). Laughed heartily when his toes were put into his 

mouth. (See Fig. 3, p. 37.) 
(17 W. 6 D.). I held him up by his hands and he put his feet on 

my chest. 

(18 W.). Rode cock-horse. (See Plate I, No. 4, p. 170.) 
(19 W. 2 D.). Greeted us with a smile and gurglings. 
(19 W. G D.). Tried to raise himself up by propping himself on 

one elbow. Later tried to pull himself up by pulling on the 

horizontal bar in his basket. Again, lying on the bed, he grasped 

his father's fingers and after three attempts pulled himself up 

to a sitting position. 
(20 W.). Kicked hard against the bar (broom handle) in his 

basket. Laughed heartily when I pinched and slapped. Holding 




o ,- 

OJD ~ 
C JS 



Cj -^ 

> c 
si C 



inc 



SUMMARIES 157 

slapped. Holding on to a stick which I held out to him, he raised 

himself up several times from a lying to a sitting position. 

Sixth Month: 

(22 W.). Sat alone for from throe to live minutes. 
(23 W.). First rido out-of-doors in carriage. Sat up straight for 

an hour. (See p. 170, Plate I. No. 11.) 
(23 W.). Pulled himself up whenever he could get hold of my 

fingers. Kicked and splashed in his tub. 

Seventh Month.- 

Lying on his back, he kicked a tin pan almost steadily for an hour. 
(27 W. 2 D.). Stood alone by his basket. (See p. 178, Plate II, 

No. 1.) Seized every opportunity to try to pull himself up on his 

feet. 

(28 W.). Pulled himself up alone to a standing position. 
(28 W. 5 D.). Moved, by rolling on the floor, a distance of three 

feet. 

Eighth Month: 

(32 W. 4 D. ). Took steps when supported. 
(33 W. 2 D.). Walked, by grasping moving things. 
(34 W. ID.). With the assistance of a chair, pulled himself up 

from a sitting position to a standing position. 

Ninth Month.- 

Got up on his feet at every opportunity. 

Managed his baby tender very well (see p. 178, Plate II, No. 0). 
Held his own weight hanging from a stick or clothes line (see 

p. 178, Plate II, Nos. 4 and 8). 

Tenth Month: 
At home on his feet, but had to grasp something to keep his 

balance (see p. 178, Plate II, Nos. 3, 5 and 7). 

Eleventh Month.- 

(43 W. 5 D.). Took three steps alone twice. 
(43 W. 6 D.). Took about 50 steps, holding my hand. 
(44 W.). Took five steps, holding my apron. 
(4G W. 4 D.). Walked behind his carriage, pushing it. 
(40 W. I).). Walked from one person to another a few feet 

away. Took several long walks while 1 held his jacket and he 

balanced himself with his clenched fists. 

(47 W.). Walked to me (five feet away) when I was not expect- 
ing him to come. 

Twelfth Month: 
Walked all about, assisting himself by people or furniture, grow- 



158 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

ing more and more venturesome, and having many hard tumbles. 
Finally, while walking from another person to me, and being 
chased, in his haste he gave ni> his support and ran into my arms. 
After this, he walked other distances alone. 

(52 W. 1 D.). As he walks up to things, instead of grabbing hold 
tight for support, he only touches them lightly and walks on. 

Thirteenth Month: 
(1 Y. 1 W. 3 D.). Kan as well as walked. Climbed up and 

down stairs, holding my hand. 
(1 Y. 2 AY.). Climbed upstairs on his hands and knees alone. 

Fourteenth, Mouth: 

Walked more, ran more, climbed more stairs. On favorable days 
(February) walked in Riverside Park. 

(1.3 M. 1 W.). Dug uj) his first shovelful of dirt in Riverside 
(see p. 180, Plate III, No. 3.. 

Got ui> JUKI down from a sitting or lying position to his feet with- 
out assistance of chair or person. 

Fifteenth and Ki.rteeuth Month**; 
Increased facility in all achievements. 

Seventeenth- Monih .- 

Climbed on to dining table by means of a chair, without assistance 
or disaster. 

Enjhtcenth Month ; 
('limbed everything climable. 

Nineteenth Month: 
Climbed all about the Park benches. 
Hammered nails, and hit them straight on the head most of the 

time (see p. 180, Plate III, No. 5). 
(18.f> M.). Walked all the way up and down six flights of stairs, 

holding my hand and the banister. 
(18 M. 3 W. ). Climbed, to fourth step of a ladder alone (see 

p. 180, Plate III, No. 10). 
Tried to jump while walking. 

Ticentleth Month: 

Kan and climbed, went up and down stairs with increasingly 
greater ease, fed himself and did not spill much. 

Ttrenty-firxt Month: 
Increased facility in all achievements. 



SUMMARIES 



159 



Twenty-second Monlli : 

More vigorous and sure in his activities. 
Twenty-third Month .- 

Sprayed Iris own nose and throat while I stood by to assist (see 
p. J80 ; Plate III, No. 2). 
Twenty-fourth Month : 

Blew his own nose. Walked down stairs, holding to the banister, 
but pushing my hand away. Helped mother about the house : 
carried dishes, manipulated broom and sweeper and carpet- 
beater, broke up macaroni, and did several little errands for her. 
Held absorbent cotton over his own eyes while mother dropped 
menthol in his nose. 

Twenty-fifth Month: 

Held chamber for himself to urinate, put it down, raised both 
lids of the toilet, emptied chamber, put it down, turned on water 
in tub, got water in chamber and emptied chamber in toilet and 
turned off water, rarely spilling any. Took my hand as an equal, 
but no longer as a dependent. Always ran when on an errand. 
Walked on all fours, with knee-joint straight. Investigated 
everything he could reach water hydrants, bicycles, automobiles, 
etc. ; pulled the dumbwaiter up and down, and manipulated most 
of the mechanisms on an Underwood typewriter. Walked three- 
fourths of a mile in one hour. While running fast could turn a 
sharp corner with dexterity. Threw a ball well. 



The 



tr of 



ft 



20 



2Z 



& 



Inci 



sors 



14 



/O 



/3 



Co- 



7 "*fa*J 



ffmf 



18 



er 



Chart XXXVIII. The numbers on the second and third lines indi- 
cate the order in which the teeth appeared. Twelve were in by 
two years. 



160 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

13. Teething. (See Chart XXXVIII.) The teeth- 
ing process was sometimes painful, and several times 
upset digestive processes to such an extent that spe- 
cial foods had to be selected during Ihose intervals. 

I believe that the teeth gave no trouble until the 
ninth month. Thereafter painful teething was indi- 
cated by the fact that the mouth drooled ; that he kept 
putting his fingers to his mouth; that he was notice- 
ably indifferent, or fretted, or even cried; that the 
feces became loose, and that tannic acid* rubbed on 
the gums always brought immediate relief. One or 
several of these indications might be given ; the pres- 
ence of all of them was positive proof. 

The gums where the first incisors were coming 
through began to be swollen and white in the ninth 
month, and I believe that some of the irregularities 
of that and of the tenth month as well were caused 
by the pains of teething. The first tooth, however, 
to cut its way through, was the lower right incisor, 
early in the eleventh month; at 15.25 months the 
eight incisors were through. These were followed 
by the four front double teeth, between the seven- 
teenth and twenty-first months, and these by the 
four canines from the twenty-third to the twenty- 
fifth months ; the last one was cut three days after he 



*Of three physicians and two dentists who were consulted, three 
advised the use of tannic acid (20 per cent, in alcohol), hnt one ob- 
jected to it on the ground that, though it did give immediate relief, 
that very tendency toward astringency which caused the relief was 
in the end a condition distinctly to be avoided. In fact, he claimed 
the very opposite effect should be brought about, and advised much 
rubbing, or, if necessary, lancing. Except as a last resort to relieve 
the pain, lancing was objected to by the others because it left a 
scar, and scar-tissue is less elastic. A third physician said that 
as the gums were to be kept very soft, they should not be rubbed 
or have tannic acid applied, as both tended to harden the gums. 



SUMMARIES 161 

was two years of age. All were straight and perfect. 

During the 17 months of teething there were ap- 
parently four months of relief from teething pains, 
the eleventh, eighteenth, twentieth and twenty-fifth. 
There were seven months in which there were but 
slight disturbances, fretting or crying, or possibly a 
few loose feces; these were the ninth, twelfth, thir- 
teenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, nineteenth and twen- 
ty-first months. In four months, the tenth, sixteenth, 
seventeenth and twenty-third, the loose feces during 
periods of a few days were apparently caused by 
teething pains. Twice, during the seventeenth and 
twenty-fourths months, the loose feces continued 
one and three weeks, respectively, and the gums 
obviously pained. During these periods those foods 
that tended to make the feces loose were avoided. 
Twice, during the tenth and twenty-second months, 
he had a cold at the same time that his teeth were 
giving trouble, which made it difficult to determine 
which was the source of disturbance. It was during 
that seventeenth month that he cut the two upper 
front double teeth, and during the twenty- fourth that 
the two lower canine teeth gave trouble. All the 
other teeth erupted with little difficulty. 

14. Remarks. 

(A) Vocabulary of motions and -words. Of my 
baby's mental development I kept no systematic 
record, but merely noted those phases of it that in- 
volved some physical manifestation, like reaching 
out to get something, or stooping down to pick up 
something. But I did record his vocabulary, not 
only of words, but of the gestures that preceded or 
accompanied the spoken word. The following was 
his " vocabulary of motions," as we called it, and his 



162 



HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 



vocabulary of words. The acquisitions are reported 
in the order they were made : 



Age. Our word or words. His motion foi 
8 mo. By-by. 



Where's 
gone? 



I see. 



10 nio. No, no. 
Music. 



18 mo. 



1!) 



it. His word or sound 

for it. 
Waves band from 

wrist. 

babyflides, by cover- 
ing up eyes with 
hands, or, if in 
my arms, laying 
his head on my 
shoulder. 

Uncovers his eyes 
or raises his 
head. 
Shakes his head, 

left to right. 
Makes his arm go 
round in long, 
s 1 o w m o v e - 
nients. (I sing 
to him, moving 
my arms rhyth- 
mically at the 
same time, so he 
associates the 
movement of 
a r m s w i t h 
music.) 

Turns a round. 
Twists wrist, as 
in turning key. 
Xods head nj) and 

down. 

(I say to him at A, a. 
certain times ask.) 
that he should 
"ask to go to 
toilet. Ask, 
ask.") 

Moves arm as in 
turning e g g 
beater. 

Dumb waiter. Moves arms as in 
pulling up the 
dumb waiter. 

Tooth brush. Rubs teeth with 
one finger. 



Dance. 
Key. 



yes. 



Toilet. 



Egg beater 



as in 



SUMMARIES 



Bread. Makes arm move- 

ment made in 
cutting bread. 

All gone. Puts bands to- 

gether and then 
thro w s them 
wide apart. 

Chase me, orTakes the attitude 
I'll give of starting to 
chase. run. 

Kiss. Makes the motion 

with his lips. 
19J mo. Boat. Makes the noise 

of the whistle. 

Sing. Vocalizes. 

Margaret. "Ma." 

If asked to Vocalizes on "oo." 

call anyone. 

20 ino. Button waist. Doubles up his 
hands into fists 
and moves them 
as if buttoning 
up his waist. 

Watch. Puts hand to ear 

as if listening 
to watch. 

II o w doe sMakes the motion 
Daddy brush of the brush 
his shoes? rubbing over the 

shoe. 

Birdie. Makes the chirp- 

ing noise of the 
bird. 

20 mo. Telephone. Holds hand to ear 
as if holding the 
receiver there. 

Talk. "Athaleegathalee." 

or to that effect. 

Mamma. "Mamma." (Re- 

peats only after 
me.) 

Daddy. "Dada." (Repeats 

only after me.) 

20| mo. Comb hair. Rubs hand over 
hair, as in comb- 
ing hair. 
Hammer. Makes the motion 

of hammering. 

How does Mar-Rubs hands over 
garet wash face as she does, 
her face? 




Fig. 21. His motion for "Carry me down- 
stairs?" (Age, twcuty-one mouths.) 



164 



SUMMARIES 



165 



Horse. 



Makes with bis 
lips the sound 
a horse makes 
in snorting. 



21 mo. Spread hread. Rubs one first fin- 
ger on the other. 

Sugar. Holds band up 

and makes the 
motion of shak- 
ing sugar from 
a spoon. 

Carry me down Makes two fists, 



stairs. 



Good dinner. 



an intense face, 
.scrunches down 
and grunts (see 
Fig. 21, p. 104. 
Shrugs up his 
shoulders a n d 
inclines bead, 
one side. (This 
was a position 
I bad uncon- 
sciously taken 
as I asked him 
if he were hav- 
ing a good din- 
ner.) (See Fig. 



22, p 



S b r e d d e d Moves 
wheat. 



106. 
hands 



Cracker. 

Kite. 

S q u e a k i n g 
door. 

22 ino. Steam. 

How does the 

rooster go? 
Automobile. 
Good-night. 
All right. 



Our word. 

22 mo. Hammer 

Thank you 
Daddy 
Blocks 
Cards 



and 

fingers as if 
b r caking up 
shredded wheat. 
Bites teeth to- 
gether. 



"K." 

Makes the sq m Dik- 
ing noise a door 
makes. 

"sss." 

"Coo, coo, coo." 

"Honk, bonk." 
"Ni-nl." 
"Aw i." 



His icord. 
"Na na" 
"Ta til" 
"Da" 
"Bit" 




Fig. 22. His way of saying "Such 
good dinner." (Age, twenty- 
one mouths.) 



366 



SUMMARIES 



167 



23 mo. 



24 mo. 



Baby 

Barley 

Grandma 

Box 

Butter 

Open 

Open box 

Bottle 

Zwiebach 

Dry diaper 

Bread 

Dinner 

Door 

Butter 

Pin 

All gone 

Trolley car 

Mamma 

Grandma 

Leonard 

Grandma gone 

By by 

Garter 

Clock 

Bath 

Chocolate 

Prunes 

Milk 

Bed 

George 

Match 

Coat 



"Baby" 
"Ba" 
"Mil" 
"Ba" 
"Bur" 
"O" 

"O bit" 
"Ba" 
"Ba" 
"Di di" 
"Ba" 
"Ninee" 
,"Do" 
"Ta" 
"Min" 
"Aw aw" 
"Ca ca" 
"Mama" 
"Mama" 
"Nana" 
"Mama aw 
"By by" 
"Ga" 
"Ca" 
"Ba" 
"Ka" 
"Mur" 
"Mi" 
"Be" 
"Dor" 
"Ma" 
"Co" 



aw 



From the list,* then, it seems that to the twenty- 
second month he used 12 sounds that conveyed mean 
ings to us. They were : 

1. "A, a," to ask to go to toilet. 

2. "Oo," pitched like the whistle on boats. 

3. His kind of singing. 

4. "Ma," Margaret. 

5. "Oo, oo, oo," used in calling a person. 

6. The chirping noise of a bird. 

7. "Athaleegathalee," when asked to talk. 

8. "Mama" (after me). 



*In addition to these, he has tried to repeat many words after 
us, such as molly-coddle, "ca ca," but the list, unless otherwise in- 
dicated, includes only his working vocabulary. 




Fig. 23. The romper suit, buttoning down the side. Very good made of 
crinkled seersucker. (Age, nineteen months.) 



108 



SUMMARIES 169 

0. "Dada" (after me). 

10. The snort a horse makes. 

11. "K" for kite. 

12. The squeaking noise a door makes. 

I made no more effort to teach him these sounds 
than I had to teach him to walk. In both I merely 
encouraged .his efforts after he had taken the ini- 
tiative. 

Of course, he jabbered a great deal, but those 12 
sounds were the only ones that crystallized into 
meanings that we understood as such arid that lie 
used in conveying ideas to us. But he had a good 
working vocabulary of the 28 motions above noted, 
and it was chiefly by these that lie communicated 
with us. 

After he was 22 months old he added new words 
rapidly. One* by one these new words took the place 
of or accompanied the earlier motions; as, "na na," 
hammer, ^as/used with the motion of hammering; 
"bur," or later "ta" for butter, was used with the 
motion of spreading bread, etc. He used 54 words, 
as well as 28 motions, in the twenty-fifth month. 

But, though his vocabulary seems limited, that has 
not interfered with there being a perfect understand- 
ing between us on most occasions, lie frequently 
asks my permission to do a certain thing by looking 
at me, raising the eyebrows and nodding the head 
quite as adults do. He has done many a little errand 
for me about the house, and in many ways, of which 
1 have kept no record, he has shown that long before 
he could use them he understood the words I used. 

(B) Clothing. Baby came home from the hos- 
pital dressed in the number and kind of dresses there 
adopted: namely, a flannel bandage, a flannel shirt, 




Fig. 24. Overalls for the roof. (Age, nineteen 
months.) 



170 



SUMMAKIES 171 

diapers, a flannel petticoat and a woven cotton slip. 
But I soon began to question the use of the bandage 
and the flannel garments. They seemed too confin- 
ing and too irritating, and as they were always get- 
ting wet, were a source of trouble both to baby and 
myself. So I consulted Professor Fisher of Yale, five 
doctors and three maternity hospitals, and read what 
I found in seven books that gave advice concerning 
the layette. Without going into the details of this 
investigation, at the close of it I became suspicious 
that the bandage and the use of flannel were but 
relics of customs and tradition. At any rate, I felt 
justified in giving cotton a trial and in removing the 
bandage. So, while keeping a most careful watch 
upon the baby's condition, I discarded, one by one, 
the bandage, the shirt, the skirt, and even the cotton 
muslin dress. All these were replaced by a single 
garment that I had found in the course of my inves- 
tigations a roomy, comfortable, long, knitted, cot- 
ton garment, with a draw-string at the bottom, made 
by the Arnold Knit Goods Company. If warm, this, 
with his cotton diaper, constituted his indoor dress ; 
if cool, a cashmere jacket was added, or a thin flannel 
shawl was thrown over his shoulders. When he went 
to sleep (either out of doors or in a room with the 
windows open), since he always got his hands out 
from under the covers, he wore on cold days a woolen 
jacket, opening at the back and sewed up at the 
sleeves, that covered the chest and hands completely. 
A woolen blanket or two kept the rest of the body 
warm. As this woolen jacket was short, and therefore 
" above the water-line, " if 1 may so speak, there was 
to be kept dry and clean only one garment and a 
diaper instead of three garments, a band and a dia- 



SUMMARIES 173 

per, with their uncomfortable binding on the baby. 
Moreover, this newly-found knitted garment was 
more easily washed than the woven one, required no 
starching, and did not need to be ironed. 

As soon as this long dress began to be in the baby's 
way (fifth month), it was replaced by a short one of 
the same material, made without the draw-string 
(Fig. 13). (See p. 176, Plate I, No. 9, and p. 178, 
Plate II, No. 3.) When cool, the little cashmere 
jacket was worn over this, too (see p. 65, Fig. 8). 

When he left oft' diapers at two years, they were 
replaced by knitted cotton drawers, fastened by but- 
tons to a knitted cotton waist, to which also were 
fastened the garters. 

A bib (Fig. 5) was necessary during drooling days. 

Later, rompers of plain dark green or blue ging- 
ham (p. 168, Fig. 23) or of crinkled seersucker were 
worn over this garment, making a petticoat of the 
knitted dress, and when he went to the roof, overalls 
were worn over these (p. 170, Fig. 24). On cold daj r s, 
for out-of-doors, a white knitted worsted suit (p. 71, 
Fig. 9) was put over the rompers. The only changes 
made during the next winter were the addition of a 
medium weight cotton shirt during the very cold 
weather and a coat (p. 172, Fig. 25). A new sweater 
and brown leggins (p. 174, Fig. 26) replaced the out- 
grown white ones. 

As long as the baby remained within a limited 
radius, on a rug or a blanket on the floor, no shoes 
or even stockings were put on his feet. But as he be- 
gan to walk about, very soft sandals were used (ninth 
month (see p. 178, Plate II, No. 4). Later, at a year 
and a half, "Educator" sandals (p. 168, Fig. 23), "and 




Fig-. 26. The "Brownie" suit for the second winter, 
out-of-doors. 



174 



SUMMAEIES 175 

still later "Educator" shoes (p. 164, Fig. 21), were 
worn. 

As for stockings, woolen ones were worn the first 
winter (though I now believe that cotton ones would 
have been better). Short cotton socks, or frequently 
none at all, were worn through the summer, and long 
cotton ones during the second winter. 

A warm hood, covering the ears (p. 164, Fig. 21), 
was worn during the first winter and on the coldest 
days of the second winter. A Scotch cap with ear 
tabs (p. 174, Fig. 26) was generally worn during the 
warmer days of the second winter. When he wore 
any hat at all during the summer, it was a rimmed 
linen hat. 

Mittens were found necessary during the winter 
months (Fig. 25, p. 172). 

The principles which guided me in dressing the 
boy were the following: 

1. His health. His dress must conserve energy 
and must help, not hinder, the processes making for 
healthy, full and free development. That all cloth- 
ing should be clean follows as an obvious corollary. 

2. His comfort. The garments must not scratch, 
irritate, bind any part of the flesh or any muscle, nor 
interfere in any way with the performance of the 
child's physical activities. 

3. My convenience. The dressing of the boy and 
caring for his wardrobe had to be studied also from 
the point of view of reducing to its lowest terms the 
drudgery involved therein for the mother. A little 
studying of the problem rescued from the tub and 
needle hours in which I was free to be my child's 
companion instead of his slave, and which at the 
same time in no way risked his health or comfort. 



A position htid t,/nte 3/2 week 
mo., Je.ZS 08. 



Atno/nt vp-$iat-ao\*n 
Sinee 4fhnx>, ty, fjtimJtq'a 




that camera. Q o rh hands ond ftff grab tht fraptze ttt 
Ayej^nno, Sp.25, '0&. 

up fi> standina days, 6fe months. 



ool on'o lirjfn SfreKhtr. 
6/f N >../8, '0&, 



PLATE I. 
170 



SUMMARIES 177 

4. A sense of hcdiff/i. The baby's sense of beauty 
is not a factor to be reckoned with during* at least 
these first two years, so psychologists tell us. There- 
fore, dainty, beautifully embroidered and hem- 
stitched garments, though they may gratify a moth- 
er's sense of beauty, will not be appreciated by the 
baby. What is appropriate in dress for the age and 
activities of the child is more beautiful, because more 
fitting, than what is inappropriate, however beauti- 
ful the mother may feel it to be. 

(() Exercise. Whenever possible, either in- 
doors at any time, or in a warm room in winter, or 
even out-of-doors in the summer, I hnve treated the 
lad to the luxury of running about in his bare skin. 
Then I rub his flesh well all over, and let him swing 
as 'he holds to my fingers or a trapeze. I hold him by 
his feet upside down, swing him back and forth, and 
in various ways exercise his whole body. 

(I)) Suckiug the thumb. At two years this habit 
was not yet broken. This is the Nemesis following 
my failure to check an undesirable habit at the out- 
set. It stole many hours from his sleep and from my 
time. I tried bitter quinine on the thumb, slapping 
the hand, pinching the linger, talking to him, holding 
his hand while he went to sleep, binding up his arm 
and hand, putting his hand in a round pasteboard 
roll, wrapping his thumbs with adhesive plaster, and 
so on, but he soon got over all the hurts inflicted and 
the 1 bad taste in the mouth, and became most efficient 
in freeing his thumb from bondage. The habit has 
left no traces in the shape of the mouth or thumb, as 
the thumb was not in the mouth for a very long time 
(never when awake, and only for a few minutes as 
he dropped off to sleep). 




The second fry at 



The pen offered qood places to hoMto. 
Aot 9'/z mo., rio. 21, 'OB. 




ft oat /W Meld M OU/7 wt/tfhf A flight i 
hertactitsthtftar*Ml6eoff,fr. simt 4-th month. Aqe i 

3, '09. A(e, 9'ime., tlov.it, be. 



Atftomt upon hi & -ft ft 
' 



In hit beby fender, ht plop 
a livetv qame of hiJt-onj- 



ttore difficult fb htnj /*> 
a rope than a 

o, OcfiS,'o8 




Up and doun in matters /Wi. 
Aae, Bftma, Oct/j W. 



between 6'k months aw/ / Year. 



PLATE II. 
178 



SUMMAKIES 179 

But his babyhood clays have been so nearly ideal 
that some of his friends welcome this little imperfec- 
tion as proof that he is, after all, quite human. 

(E) Heritage. Leonard's parents were both of 
long-lived families, were in sound health and inher- 
ited no diseases. When Leonard was born his father 
was a college professor, 45 years old. His mother 
was a college woman, who before her marriage had 
been a teacher. She was 35 years of age at the time 
of his birth. 

(F) Circumcision. Though there was no binding 
apparent, for purely hygienic reasons Leonard was 
circumcised. The operation was performed at the 
hospital, and the wound was healed before we left 
there on the fourteenth day. 




Hammerini} naik a foitortti occupation, tince 
i& mo. Aft, ttftmo, JDfc. '&. OB. 




on honfe /s jolly fun. The sand pile, mafic*, of Htis, (.limbed a laddtr I 
A<jt,lQmo. t Ott$,'03. the ptn,a dttirtd rftFtot Unassislld since /9/Ama 

AM. It mo., JuneS,, '09. At>e l /9mo. > Sp.S l '0$. 

/ 



run a whett borrow. 
. t J>e. 5~, 'O 9. 



PLATE IH. 

180 



CHAPTER IV. 
A FINAL WORD. 

The conclusion of the whole matter is simply this: 
a worry in time saves nine, and a doctor' 's bill. 

Some, no doubt, will maintain that this habit of 
paying attention to trifles is not only unwarranted 
on the baby's account, but that also it would breed a 
worrying, nervous attitude of mind in the mother. 
Time enough to bother, they will argue, when a rous- 
ing good case of colic keeps the family up all night, 
when the baby has a temperature that amounts to 
something and stays there for a couple of days, when 
the flesh is sore and unsightly, when the excreta have 
been green, slimy and unchecked for days, or when 
the baby is so cross that everybody feels like shaking 
him and throwing him down in disgust because the 
shaking does not shake out his ill temper. It is time 
enough then to worry, they say, and if things get too 
bad one can always send for the doctor. The doctor 
brought the other children, that is, most of them, 
through their attacks, and they propose to leave the 
worrying to him. Doubtless were there not actually 
many such mothers and fathers, not a few doctors 
would have to take down their shingles. 

181 



182 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

Nay, more, I have even heard it argued that it was 
all right for babies to have occasional upsets, for in 
that way the system got practice in righting itself. 
Do these parents have nauseating dinners period- 
ically prepared for themselves and conscientiously 
bring about a good attack of indigestion just to keep 
their systems in shape for getting over such attacks! 
Surely, indigestion is common enough among adults, 
but I cannot believe it is practiced with any such 
"malice aforethought." And when one-fifth of the 
babies die yearly from wholly preventable intestinal 
troubles, one is inclined to question the practices 
that are responsible for infant mortality, particu- 
larly when nature has seen to it that ninety-nine of 
every hundred babies begin life practically well and 
healthy, regardless of what has been their parents' 
previous condition of health. 

No, I found it was worth while to try to keep the 
baby well, though it meant constant watch for seem- 
ingly trivial indications of indigestion, constant en- 
deavor to prevent their continuance or recurrence, 
and what some may regard as unnecessary fuss and 
bother with tiineing, weighing, measuring and rec- 
ord taking. But it paid, for it has spared me abso- 
lutely from those prolonged sieges of anxious worry- 
ing when a little life seems to be ebbing away and one 
waits and waits through the long, dark night for the 
tide to turn. I have known nothing of this kind of 
anxiety. On the contrary, my kind of worrying if 
it may be called that has played its part in giving 
me a sweet-tempered, rollicking, hearty little lad as 
my constant companion for these two years, and will, 
I hope, give to the world later, a calm, thoughtful, 
amiable, dignified spirit. 



A FINAL WORD 183 

From my point of view, I cannot, but from theirs 
I can, understand why my friends commiserated me 
before my baby was born. One after another tried 
to comfort me, as Job's comforters always do, with: 
"Now you are in for it!" "Your time has come at 
last!" "If you can only pull through the first two 
years, then he will begin to be cunning," and so on, 
as if some awful Nemesis were about to fall upon me 
and I were doomed to torment for a period. But 
these two years with my baby have been the happiest 
of my life. The problem of raising a baby has not 
only been intellectually stimulating I know, for in- 
stance, I got more out of it than I ever got out of an 
equal amount of time spent on geometry, though I 
reveled in geometry, too but emotionally as well. I 
find that I have never been more on the qui vive than 
during these two years. To behold a little blind, 
deaf, speechless, red, uncontrolled mortal gradually 
see, hear, gain muscular control, grow shapely and 
comely, experiment and investigate, talk, laugh and 
love in a word, to attain all the traits of a human 
being has been an exquisite pleasure, full of sur- 
prises, full of affection, full of the joy that accom- 
panies achievement, full of all that is implied in the 
time-honored expression, "mother love." Long ago 
Cornelia knew where to point to her jewels, and I, 
too, find her kind mine. 

Although, as I said at the beginning, no general 
conclusions as to the care and treatment of other 
babies can be made from this one case, yet if a num- 
ber of such records, say 50 or 75, could be kept and 
studied, and if, along with these, there could be con- 
ducted some intensive laboratory work bearing di- 
rectly on the problem in hand, I believe that a still 



184 HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL 

better book than lias yet been written, excellent as 
the available ones are, could be put into the hands of 
intelligent mothers. Such investigations would 
surely add to our knowledge of the variability of 
individual children and furnish as well maxims and 
principles of great practical value for all mothers. 

It is with the hope that this record of the first two 
years of Leonard's life may act as a point of de- 
parture, if not an example, in the study of these first 
two years of life that his mother has gladly kept it 
and now gives it to the world. 



INDEX 



Abbreviations used, 15. 
Abdomen, 

See under Measurements. 
Accuracy of data, 18. 
Achievements, 

See Physical achievements. 
Age, how recorded, 15. 
On record sheet, 17. 
13th day to 17th day, 23, 24 ; 7 wks 
3 da. to 8 wks. 3 da., 25-29 ; 2 mo. 
30-33 ; 3 mo., 32, 33 ; 4 mo., 31, 33 
34, 35 ; 5 mo., 36-43 ; 6 mo., 43-49 
7 mo., 49-51 ; 8 mo., 51-59 ; 9 mo. 
59-69 ; 10 mo., 68, 69 ; 11 mo., 69 
70 ; 12 mo., 72-75 ; 13 mo., 74, 75 
14 mo., 75, 76 ; 15 mo., 75, 77 
16 mo., 78, 79 ; 17 mo., 79, 80 
18 mo., 79, 82 ; 19 mo., 86, 88 
20 mo., 86, 90, 93 ; 21 mo., 93, 95 
22 mo., 95, 96 ; 23 mo., 95, 98, 107 
24 mo., 107, 109, 113. 
Air, fresh, 9, 12. 
Alboliue, 
See Medicines. 
See under Skin. 
Antimony and ipecac, 
See Medicines. 
See Cold. 

Appetite, evidence of health, 8. 
Apple sauce. 

See under Diet. 
Arnold knit goods, 171, 173. 
Averages, dangers of, 7. 

Baby culture, 7, 13, 14, 135, 183. 
Baby-tender, 57. 
Bandage, belly, 

See Clothing. 
Barley, 

See under Diet. 
Baths, 

Alcohol and cold water, 103. 

Mustard, 61, 67, 136. 

Salt, 42. See Skin. 

Temperature, 142. 

Warm, 40, 100, 149. 
Beef and barley soup, 

See under Diet. 
Beef juice, 

See under Diet. 

Beef, raw, effects of, 72 (XIII). 
Behavior, 

Accuracy of records kept, 18. 

Health in danger, 8, 181. 

How recorded, 15. 

In health, 8. 



On record sheet, 17. 

Record, 26, 27, 29, 30 (III), 32 (IV), 
34 (V), 42, 40 (VI), 48, 44 (VII), 
50 (VIII), 52 (IX), 67, 60 (X), 
68 (XI), 70 (XII), 72 (XIII), 
74 (XIV), 76 (XV), 77 (XVI), 78 
(XVII), 80 (XVIII), 80 (XVIII), 
82 (XIX), 88 (XX), 92, 93, 90 
(XXI), 94 (XXII), 96 (XXIII), 
98 (XXIV), 109 (XXV). 

Summary, 149, 150, 116 (XXVI 9). 

Teething, influence on, 62, 95, 107, 

160. 
Benzoin (tincture of), 

See Medicines. 

See under Cold. 
Boracic acid, 

See Medicines. 

See Eye. 

See Skin. 

Bottle, learning to suck from, 54, 55. 
Bread, 

Dried. 

Toasted. 

Uncooked, 

Zwiebach. 

See under Diet. 
Breast meals, 

See under Diet. 

Caldwell, Dr. William E., 

Consulted, 56, 61. 

Official position, 19, 23. 
Care and Feeding of Children, Dr. 

Holt used as a reference book. 

See Dr. Holt. 
Camphorated oil, 

See Medicines. 

See Cold. 
Castor oil, 

See Medicines. 

See Cold, 

See Fever. 

See Feces. 
Celery, 

See under Diet. 
Cereals, 

See under Diet. 
Chamber, the use of, 1-41, 142. 
Charts, 11, 18, 21. 

I. 1st month, 22. 

II. 2d month, 26. 

III. 3d month, 30. 

IV. 4th month, 32. 

V. 5th month, 34. 

VI. 6th month, 40. 



185 



HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL. 



VII. 7th month, 44. 

VIII. 8th month, 50. 

IX. 9th month, 52. 

IX (continued). Formulas, 58. 

X. 10th month, 60. 

XI. Uth month, 68. 

XII. 12th month, 70. 

XIII. 13th month, 72. 

XIV. Hth month, 74. 

XV. 15th month, 76. 

XVI. 16th month, 77. 
XVI I. 17th month. 78. 

XVIII. 18th month, 80. 

XIX. 19th month, 82. 

XX. 20th month, 88. 

XXI. 21st month, 90. 

XXII. 22d month, 94. 

XXIII. 23d month, 96. 

XXIV. 24th month. 98. 
^XY. 25th month, 110. 

"XXVI. Summaries tabulated, 116. 
XXVII. Diet, 122. 
IXXVIII. Keces, disturbances, rem- 
edies, :i32. 

XXIX. Feecs. character. 133. 

XXX. Skin. 134;i. 
:XXXI. Cold, 136. 

XXXII. Weight. Ml. 

XXXIII. Length of body and foot, 
146. 

XXXIV. Head measurements, 148. 

XXXV. Neck measurements, 150. 

XXXVI. Girths, head, 9th rib, 
hips, chest, waist. 154. 

XXXVII. Diet, 122. 

XXXVIII. The teeth. 159. 
Cheeks. 

In health, 8, 10, r,r,. 56. 

In illness, 8, 42. 
Chest. 

See under Measurements. 
Chitteuden, Prof., consulted. 14. 
Chocolate, sweet. 

See under Diet. 
Circumcision. 179. 
Clothing, 9, 12, 169-177. 

Arnold knit goods. 171. 173. 

Bandage, 169, 171. 

Dress, 171. 

Diapers, 173. 

Drawers. 173. 

Fisher (Prof.) of Yale, consulted, 
177. 

Hat, 175. 

Hood. 175. 

Jacket, cashmere, 171. 
Woolen. 171. 

Layette, 169, 171. 

Leggins. 173. 

Petticoat (skirt). 171. 

Principles underlying dressing, 175, 
177. 

Itompcrs, 173. 

Stindals. educator, 173. 

Shirt. 171. 

Slip. 171. 



Stockings, 175. 
Sweater, 173. 
Cold cream, 
See Medicines. 
See Skin. 
Colds, 

Absent in health, 8. 
Appearance. 23, 59, 61. 62. 67, 60 
(X), 70 (XII), 75, 76 (XV), 86, 
88 (XX), 93, 94 (XXII), 95, 96 
(XXIII), 105, 106, 98 (XXIV). 
Frequency, 147-149, 136 (XXXI). 
How recorded, 15. 
Late symptom of indigestion, 10. 
On record sheet, 17. 
Problem of, 21, 67. 
Treatment, 136 ( XXX I ) . 
Baths, 

Mustard, 61, 67, 13(5. 
Warm, 149. 

Benzoine (fumes), 62, 149. 
Castor oil, 61, 62, 67, 106, 149. 
Camphorated oil, 67. 106. 136. 
Diet, 61, 86, 93, 94, 149, 136. 
Gray powder tablets, 106. 149, 136. 
Menthol and aboline, 61, 62, 67, 

86, 106, 149. 

Mucol, 61, 86, 106, 136, 143, 149. 
Mustard plaster. 106, 149. 136. 
Tablets, antimony and ipecac, 

106, 149. 

Common-sense way, 11. 
Colic, 181. 
Composition of food, 

See under Diet. 
Conclusions, 21, 183, 181. 
Condition of skin, 

See Skin. 
"Conditions present are the best 

guide," Dr. Holt. 12. 27. 
Constipation, 15, 64, 95, 182. 
Cornstarch, 
See Medicines. 
See Skin. 

Crackers, Educator, Huntley, Palm- 
er, Biscuit. 

See under Diet. 
Cream. 

See Milk, under Diet. 
Crust, 

See Bread, under Diet. 
Crying, 

Accuracy of record, 19. 
Causes, 151, 152, 160, 161. 
Frequency, 152, 116 (XXVI 9). 
How recorded, 17. 
Record, 29, 26 (II), 30 (III). 32 
(IV), 34 (V), 42. 40 (VI), 48, 44 
(VII), 49, 50 (VIII), 51, 52 (IX), 
54 56, 59 60 (X), 68 (XI), 70 
(XII), 72 (XIII), 74 (XIV), 76 
(XV), 77 (XVI), 78 (XVII), 80 
(XVIII). 82 (XIX), 88 (XX). 
93, 90 (XXI), 94 (XXII), 96 
(XXIII), 98 (XXIV), 106, 109 
(XXV). 



INDEX. 



187 



Summary, 151, 152, 116 (XXVI 9). 
Data, accuracy of, 18. 
Dewey, John, dedication. 
Diapers, 

See Clothing. 
Diet, 

Accurately measured, 10. 
Average, poor guide, 7. 
Composition, 120-130, 122 (XXVII). 
Apple Sauce, 88, 90 (XXI), 94 
(XXII), 96 (XXIII), summary, 
122 (XXVII). 

Beef, chopped, 88 (XX), 98 
(XXIV), 109 (XXV), summary, 
122 (XXVII). 
Beef and barley soup, 98 (XXIV), 

summary, 122 (XXVII), 127. 
Beef juice, 82 (XIX), 127. 
Bread, dried, 72 (XIII), 77 (XVI), 
98 (XXIV), 122 (XXVII, 
summary). 

Bread, end crust, 77 (XVI), 78 
(XVII), 80 (XVIII), 90 (XXI). 
94 (XXII), 96 (XXIII), 98 
(XXIV), 109 (XXV), 123, 122 
(XXVII, summary). 
Bread, toasted, 96 (XXIII), 123, 

122 (XXVII, summary). 
Bread, uncooked, 88 (XX), 128,140. 
Bread, zwiebach, 74, 76 (XV), 80 
(XVIII), 82 (XIX), 88 (XX). 
90 (XXI), 94 (XXII), 96 
(XXIII), 98 (XXIV), 109 
(XXV), 123, 122 (XXVII, sum- 
mary), 140, 141. 
Celery, 96 (XXIII), 128. 
Cereals. 

Barley, effect of, 63, 139, 140, 141. 
Barley in diet, 53, 56, 60, 61, 62, 
63, 64, 68 (XI), 70 (XII), 72 
(XIII), 74 (XIV), 76 (XV), 
77 (XVI), 78 (XVII), 80 
(XVIII), 82 (XIX), 88 (XX), 
90 (XXI), 94 (XVII), 96 
(XXIII), 98 (XXIV), Sum- 
mary 122 (XXVII) and 123. 
Farina, 75, 77 (XVI), 78 (XVII), 
80 (XVIII), 82 (XIX), 88 
(XX), 90 (XXI), 94 (XXII), 
96 (XXIII), 98 (XXIV). 
Summary 122 (XXVII) and 
123, 140, 141. 

Hominy, 79, 80 (XVIII), 82 
(XIX), 88 (XX), 90 (XXI), 
98 (XXIV), 109 (XXV), Sum- 
mary 122 (XXVII) and 126. 
Oatmeal, effect of, 64, 75, 76 

(XV), 139, 140, 141. 
Oatmeal on trial, 60 (X), 63-64, 
70 (XII), 74 (XIV), 76 (XV), 
77 (XVI), 78 (XVII). 
Oatmeal used in diet, 79, 80 
(XVIII), 94 (XXII), 96 
(XXIII), 109 (XXV), Sum- 
mary 122 (XXVII) and 125, 
127. 



Rice, 79, 80 (XVIII), 82 (XIX), 
88 (XX), 90 (XXI), 96 
(XXIII), 98 (XXIV), 109 
(XXV), Summary 122 
(XXVII) and 126. 
Triscuit, 80 (XVIII), Summary 

122 (XXVII) and 126. 
Wheat, cream of, 76 (XV), 77 
(XVI), 88 (XX), 90 (XXI), 
94 (XXII), 98 (XXIV), Sum- 
mary 122 (XXVII) and 126, 
Wheat flour, prepared, 00 (X), 
64, 75, 76 (XV), Summary 122 
(XXVII) and 125. 
Wheat, shredded, 94 (XXII), 
96 (XXIII), 109 (XXV), Sum- 
mary 122 (XXVII) and 126, 
140, 141. 

Wheatena, 76 (XV), 76 (XVII), 

79, 80 (XVIII), 82 (XIX), 88 

(XX), 90 (XXI), 94 (XXII), 

96 (XXIII), 98 (XXIV), 

109 (XXV), Summary 122 

(XXVII) and 126, 140, 141. 

Chocolate, sweet, 108 (XXV), 

Summary 122 (XXVII) and 127. 

Crackers, educator, 74 (XIV), 

76 (XV), 77 (XVI), 78 (XVII), 

94 (XXII), 96 (XXIII), 38 

(XXIV), Summary 122 (XXVII) 

and 123. 

Crackers, Huntley Palmor Bis- 
cuit, 78 (XVII), Summary 122 
(XXVII) and 123. 
Egg, 88 (XX), 90 (XXI), 94 
(XXII), 96 (XXIII). 98 (XXIV). 
Summary 122 (XXVII) and 
127, 128. 

Egg custard, 88 (XX), 90 (XXI), 
109 (XXV), Summary 122 

(XXVII) and 12fi. 
Grape juice, 94 (XXII), Sum- 
mary 127. 
Grapes, white, 88 (XX), 94 

(XXII), Summary 128. 
Jelly, 90 (XXI), 96 (XXIII), 98 
(XXIV), 109 (XXV), Summary 
122 (XXVII) and 127. 
Lime water, 52 (IX), 60 (X), 68 
(XI), 70 (XII), 72 (XIII), 74 
(XIV), 76 (XV), 98 (XXIV), 
Summary 122 (XXVII) and 122. 
Liquids, 

Orange juice, how recorded, 15, 
62, 60 (X), 66, 68 (XI), 70 
(XII), 72 (XIII), 74 (XIV), 76 
(XV), 77 (XVI), 78 (XVII), 
80 (XVIII), 82 (XIX), 88 
(XX), 90 (XXI) and 92, 94 
(XXII), 96 (XXIII), 98 
(XXIV) and 102, 109 (XXV), 
Summary 122 (XXVII) and 
128. 

Prune juice, how recorded, 15, 
78 (XVII), 82 (XIX), 88 



188 



HOW 1 KEPT MY BABY WELL. 



(XX). 100 (XXV), Summary 

122 (XXVII) and 129. 
Water, 

Pure. 9. 

Record, 34 (V), 43. 40 (VI). 
38. 44 (VII), 50 (VIII), 52 
(IX), 60 (X) and 66. 68 
(XI). 70 (XII), 72 (XIII). 
74 (XIV). 76 (XV), 77 
(XVI). 78 (XVII). 80 
(XVIII). 82 (XIX). 88 
(XX). 90 (XXI). 92, 94 
(XXII), 96 (XXITI). 98 
(XXIV). 102. 109 (XXV) and 
111. Summary 122 (XVII) 
and 129. 

Warm, importance of. 43. 
Milk, 
Certified. 52 (TX). 53. 60 (X). 

68 (XT). 70 (XII). 72 (XIII). 

74 (XIV). Summary 121. 123. 
122 (XXVII). 

Change from lOtf to 1% to 4%. 

75 (XTTT) and 72. and 122 
(XXVTT). 

Condensed. 96 (XXIII), 98 

(XXIV). 123. 
Cream. 108 (XXV), Summary 

122 (XXVII) and 123. 
Pasteurized. 74 (XIV). 76 

(XV). 77 (XVI), 78 (XVII). 

80 (XVIII). 82 (XIX). 88 

(XX). 90 (XXI). 94 (XXTT). 

96 (XXTIT), 98 (XXIV). 

109 (XXV). Summary 122 

(XXVIT) and 121 find 123, 140. 
Sterilized. 96 (XXTII). 140. 
Summary, 121, 122 (XXVII), 

123. 
Macaroni, fli (XXII). 96 (XXTIT). 

122 (XXVTT. Summary). 
Macaroni cooked with beef. 98 
(XXIV). 109 (XXV). Summary 
127. 

Moat. 98 (XXIV). 109 (XXV), 
Summary 122 (XXVIT) and 127. 
Milk, breast. 
Accuracy of time. 18. 
Diet to stimulate flow. 36. 54. 
Disturbed. 139. 
Food that may have disturbed. 

33, 54. Summary 139. 

TTow recorded, 15. 
Summary. 120. 
Supply meaner. 36. 40. 54. 
Time at breast. 120. 
Time nursing begins. 17. 
Time nursing compared with 

Holt. 24. 
Variations among women, in 

flow of. 24. 
Record. 1st mo.. 22 (I). 23. 24 

2d mo., 25. 26 (II). 27. 28 

?d mo . 30 (TIT) : 4th mo. 

32 (IV), 33; 5th mo.. 34 (V) 

6th mo., 38, 40 (VI) ; 7th mo.. 



44 (VII), 46: 8th mo.. 50 
(VIII), 51: 9th mo.. 52 (IX). 
54. 55, 57 : 10th mo., 59, GO 
(X), 62. 63. 64. 66. 
Resting while nursing. 17, 18. 
Mutton broth, 94 (XXII), 127, 

129. 

Potato, sweet. 94 (XXII), 127. 
Prunes. 88 (XX), 94 (XXII), 96 
(XXIII). 98 (XXIV). 109 
(XXV), Summary 122 (XXVII) 
and 172. 
Pudding, 
Apple tapioca. 94 (XXII) and 

127. 
Bread. 94 (XXII), Summary 

122 (XXVII) and 127. 
Rice. 90 (XXI. Summary 122 

(XXVII) and 127. 
Tapioca. 90 (XXI). Summary 

122 (XXVII) and 126. 
Rice cooked with chicken. 98 
(XXIV), Summary 122 (XXVII) 
and 127. 

Peaches, preserved. 96 (XXITI), 

Summary 122 (XXVIT) and 127. 

Rice cakes, Japanese, 90 (XXI), 

127. 

.Soup, chicken. 96 (XXIIT). 128. 
Sugar, granulated. 74 (XIV). 88 
(XX). 90 (XXT). 94 (XXII). 
96 (XXITI). 98 (XXIV). 109 
(XXV), Summary 122 (XXVII) 
and 123. 

Sugar, milk. 52 (IX), 53. 60 (X). 
68 (XT). 70 (XII). 72 (XTTI), 
74 (XIV). 76 (XV). 77 (XVI). 
78 (XVTT). 80 (XVITT). 82 
(XIX). 88 (XX). Summary 122 
(XXVIT) and 123. 
Summary, 120-130, 122 (XXVII). 
Dangers from not changing in 

time, 12. 

Effect on skin. 132 (XXX). 145-147. 
Evidences of right and wrong diet. 

9, 10. 

How recorded. 15. 
How to judge. 12. 
Importance of. 9. 
On record sheet. 17. 
Quantity, 9. 10. 15. 
Compared with Holt. 63, 116 

(XXVI 3), 120, 121. 
Record. 

1st month, 22 (T). 
2d month, 26 (IT). 28. 
3d month, 30 (ITT). 33. 
4th month. 32 (TV). 
5th month, 34 (V). 
6th month, 40 (VI). 
7th month. 44 (VII). 46. 
8th month, 50 (VIII). 
9th month, 51, 52 (IX). 53 (IX 

Con.), 54, 55. 56. 
10th month, 60 (X). 63. 64, 66. 
llth month, 68 (XI). 



INDEX. 



189 



12th month, 70 (XII). 

13th- month, 72 (XIII), 75. 

14th month, 74 (XIV), 75. 

15th month, 76 (XV), 75. 

16th month, 77 (XVI). 

17th month, 78 (XVII). 

18th month, 80 (XVIII), 79. 

19th month, 82 (XIX). 

20th month, 88 (XX). 

21st month. 86, 90 (XXI), 91, 92. 

22d month, 94 (XXII), 95. 

23d month. 96 (XXIII). 

24th month, 98 (XXIV), 101, 102. 

25th month. 108, 109 (XXV), 111. 
Tending to make feces loose, 100. 
Tending to make feces constipa- 
ted. 95. 

When to change, 10. 
Dietary, 11. 

Digestion, evidences of good, 8, 16. 
Relation to disposition, 149. 
Upset by teething. 10. 
Digestive tract, controlling factor 

in health. 27. 
Importance of keeping it in order, 

Disposition. 

See Behavior. 
Doctors. 11, 14, 19. 181. 

Caldwfll, Dr. William E., 19. 

Holt. Dr. L. Emmett, 14. 

McCastline. Dr. William, 19. 

Von Someren, Dr., 14. 
Drawers. 

See under Clothing. 
Dress. 

See Clothing. 
Drinks. 

See Water, Orange Juice, Prune 
Juice. 

Ears, cleaning, 143. 
F.gg, 

See under Diet. 
Egg custard, 

See under Diet. 
Enema, 24th month, 103. 
Evidences of health, 

See Health, evidences of. 
Excreta. 

See Feces. 
Exercise, 177. 
Eye, in health, 8. 

Wash, 143. 

Face, sore, 

See Skin. 
Farina. 

See under Diet. 
Fasting, 9th month, 57. 
Feces, 

Abnormal, 8, 135, 141, 181. 

Accuracy, 18. 

Character, Summary, 134, 133 
(XXIX). 

Foods tending to loosen, 100. 

Foods tending to constipate, 95. 



Frequency, Summary, 131, 116 

(XXVI 6). 
How recorded, 15. 
Irregularities (causes of), 135-137, 
138-141, 132 (XXVIII 2), 160, 161. 
Normal, 8, 134, 135, 141. 
On record sheet, 17. 
Record, 22 (I), 23, 26 (II), 29, 30 
(III)', 33, 32 (IV), 33, 34 (IV), 
38, 39, 44 (VII), 46, 50 (VIII), 
52 (IX), 51, 55, 56, 57, 60 (X), 
61, 62, 66, 68 (XI), 70 (XII), 72 
(XIII), 74 (XIV), 76 (XV), 77 
(XVI), 78 (XVII), 80 (XVIII), 
82 (XIX), 88 (XX), 90 (XXI), 94 
(XXII), 96 (XXIII), 95. 98 
(XXIV), 105, 109 (XXV), 112. 
Remedies, Summary, 122 (XXVII), 

130, 138-141, 132 (XXVIII 3). 
Suppositories, 134. 
Fever, 19, 56, 57. 

Late evidence of indigestion, 10. 
Temperature taken, 10. 
Treatment, 56, 57. 
22d month, 93. 
24th month, 100, 103. 104. 
Fisher (Prof.) of Yale, 177. 
Flesh, 181. 

Sore, see Skin. 
Food, 

See under Diet. 
Foot, 

See under Measurements. 
Frequency of feces, 
See Feces, frequency. 

General Remarks, 

See Remarks. 
Grape juice, 

See under Diet. 
Grapes, white, 

See under Diet. 
Gray powder tablets, 

See Medicines. 

See Fever. 
Growth, 8, 11. 

See Physical achievements. 

In health, 8. 

Hat. 

See under Clothing. 
Head, 

See under Measurements. 
Health, evidences of, 8. 

Maintain, 12, 14, 182. 

In danger, 8. 
Height, 

See under Measurements. 
Heritage, 179. 
Hiccoughs, cause, 16. 

Treatment, 16. 

On record sheet, 17. 
Hips, 

See under Measurements. 
Holt, Dr. L. Emmet, references to 

care and feeding of children, 14, 

24, 25, 27, 53, 54, 63, 144. 



190 



HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL. 



Hominy. 

Sct> under Diet. 
Hood, 

Sec under Clothing. 
Horizontal bar, 33. 
Hospital, 23. 

Indigestion. 10, 182. 
See also ISehavior. 
Cold. 
Crying. 
Feces. 
Skin. 
Vomiting. 
Intervals between meals, 

See Meals, intervals. 
Intestines, 9, 10. 
See also Feces. 

Jacket. 

See under Clothing. 
Jelly, 

See under Diet. 

Lanolinc, 

See Skin. 

See .Medicines. 
Laughed, first times. 2,, 33. 
Layette, 

See under Clothing. 
Leggins. 

See under Clothing. 
Length of time nursing at In-east, 

See under Diet. 
Lime water. 

See under Diet. 
Liquid alboline. 

See Medicines. 

See Skin. 

Macaroni cooked with beef, 

See under Diet. 
McCastline, Dr. 'William, consulted, 

19, 36, 6i, 67. 

Took measurements. 152. 
Meals, intervals between, 

How recorded. 

On record sheet. 

Record. 1st mo.. 22. 24 : 2d mo.. 2,;, 
27 : 3d mo., 30, 33 : 4th mo., 32. 
33 : 5th mo., 33, 34 : 6th mo.. 38, 
40 : 7th mo., 43, 44 ; 8th mo.. 50 : 
9th mo.. 52; 10th mo., 60. 63; llth 
mo., 68 ; 12th mo., 70 : 13th mo.. 
72 ; 14th mo., 74 ; 15th mo., 76 ; 
16th mo., 77 ; 17th mo.. 78 ; 18th 
mo.. 80 ; 19th mo.. 82 : 20th mo., 
88; 21st mo., 86, 90; 22d mo., 94; 
23d mo., 96 ; 24th mo., 98, 100, 101 : 
25th mo., 108. 109 : Summary 118- 
120, 122 (XXVI 2). 

Number a day. 

How to lie recorded. 15. 
1st mo.. 22. 24 : 2d mo.. 26. 27 ; 3d 
mo., 30, 33 ; 4th mo.. 32, 33 ; 5th 
mo.. 33. 34 ; 6th mo., 38. 40 ; 7th 



156 



124 



mo., 43, 44 : 8th mo.. 50 ; 9th 
mo., 52 ; 10th mo.. 59, 60 ; 11 
mo., 68 ; 12th mo., 70 : 13th mo., 
72 ; 14th mo., 74 : 15th mo., 7G ; 
16th mo., 77 ; 17th mo., 78 ; 18th 
mo., 80 ; 19th mo., 82 : 20th mo., 
88 ; 21st moil., 86, 90 : 22d mo., 
94 ; 23d mo., 96 ; 24th mo., 98, 
100 ; 25th mo.. 108. 109 : Sum- 
mary, 115-118, 116 (XXVI 1). 
Time nursing, 

See under Diet. 
Measurements (other than weight, 

153, 23. 

Abdomen, 156 (XXXVII). 
Chest.154 (XXXVI). 156 I XXXVII). 
Foot, 146 (XXXIII). 
Head, 154 (XXXVI). 
Height. 146 (XXXIII), 
Hips, 154 (XXXVI), 156 (XXXVII). 
Nock, 150 (XXXV). 
Rib (ninth), 154 (XXXVI), 

(XXXVII). 

Shoulders. 156 (XXXVIIi. 
Waist, 154 (XXXVI ). 
Moat, 

See under Diet. 
Medication for, 
Cold. 61, 62, 67, 86. 106. 
Fever, 56, 57, 86. 100. 
Indigestion, 56. 57, 139. 
Intestines, 122 < XXVII i. 

(XXVIII 3). 129. 138. 13* 
Scalp, 105. Summary 145. 147. 
Skin, 15. 92. 132 (XXX). 
Summary. 142. 143. 145. 147. 
Teeth, 11, 93. 100. 160. 
Medicines. 
Alboline. 143, 145. 147. 132 (XXX). 

See Cold. 
Antimony and ipecac. IOC. 149. 

See Cold. 

I>enzoine (compound tincture of), 
62, 149. 
See Cold. 
I'.oracic acid. 143. 

See Eye. 
Uoric acid, 143. 

See Skin. 
Camphorated oil. (17. 106. 

See Cold. 

Castor oil, 56, 57. 61. 62. 64. 
103, 104. 106. 136 (XXXI 
mary 130 and 122 u^XV 
140, 141, 149. 

See ('old, Fever. Feces. 
Cold cream, 145. 147. 132 (XXX). 

See Skin. 
Cornstarch, 143. 

See Skin. 

Gray powder tablets. 
To reduce fever. 56. 57. S6, 100, 
103, 106, Summary. 130. 136. 149. 
For intestinal condition. Sum- 

mary 122 (XXVII), 133. 
See Fever. 



141. 



7. 100, 
Sum- 
i. 139, 



INDEX. 



191 



See Fores. 
Liquid alboliiie (see Skin, Scalp), 

105. 
Lanoline, 145, 147, 132 (XXX). 

See Skin. 
Menthol and alboline, 61, 62, 67, 86, 

106, 149. 

See Cold. 
Mucol, 61, 86, 106, 149, 136, 143. 

See Cold. 
Mustard plaster, 106, 149, 136. 

See Cold. 
Oil of cade, 145, 147, 132 (XXX). 

See Skin. 
Olive oil, 33, 105, 145, 147, 132 

(XXX). 

See Breast Milk. 

See Skin. 
Resorcin, 145, 147, 132 (XXX). 

See Skin. 
Sulphur, 145, 147, 132 (XXX). 

See Skin. 
Syrup of rhubarb, 130. 

See 1st mo. Feces. 
Tannic acid, 11, 93, 100, 160. 

See Teeth. 
Vaseline, 145, 147, 132 (XXX). 

See Skin. 
Violet emollient, 145, 147, 132 

(XXX). 

See Skin. 
Zinc ointment, 92, 143, 145, 147, 132 

(XXX). 

See Skin. 

Menthol and alboline, 
See Medicines. 
See Cold. 
Milk, breast, 

See under Diet. 
Milk, 
Certified, 

Change from 10% to 47r, 
Condensed, 
Cream, 
Pasteurized, 
Sterilized, 

See under Diet. 
Months, selected, 21. 
"Mother love," 183. 
Mother, consulted, 14. 

Mother's problem, 14. 
Mucol, 

See Medicines. 
See Cold. 
Mustard plaster, 
See Medicines. 
See Cold. 
Mutton broth, 
See Diet. 

Naps, 

See Sleep. 
Neck, 

See under Measurements. 
Number of meals a day, 

See Meals, number a day. 



Nose, cleaning, 143. 

Oatmeal, 

See under Diet. 
Olive oil, 

See Medicines. 

See Breast milk. 

See Skin. 
Oil of cade, 

See Medicines. 

See Skin. 
Orange juice, 

See under Diet. 
Overfeeding, 9, 21, 25, 36, 40, 49, 55, 56. 

Pain, teething, 

See Teething. 
Peaches, 

See under Diet. 
Petticoat, 

See Clothing. 
Photographs, 19. 
Physical achievements, 

Accuracy of record, 19. 

Record, 2d mo., 27, 29 ; 3d mo.. 33 ; 
4th rno., 33 ; 5th mo., 33 ; 6th mo., 
42, 43 ; 7th mo., 43, 48, 49 ; 9th 
mo., 57 ; 10th mo., 69 ; 12th mo., 
69 ; 14th mo., 75 ; 19th mo., 79 ; 
21st mo., 93 ; 23d mo., 95 ; 24th 
mo., 107. 

Summary, 155, 157, 158, 159, 176 
(PI. I), 178 (PI. II), 180 (PI. III). 
Physical activity, 8. 
Pimples, 

See Skin. 

Powder, for flesh, 142, 143. 
Potato, sweet, 

See Diet. 
Principles underlying dressing, 175, 

177. 
Prunes, 

See Diet. 
Prune juice, 

See under Diet. 
Problem of, 

Baby-raising (baby-culture), 13, 14, 
183. 

Cold, 21. 67. 

Mother's problem, 13, 14, 183. 

Overfeeding, 9, 21, 36, 40, 49, 55, 56. 

Regurgitation, 21, 25, 27. 

Teething, 21, 95, 107, 160. 

Weaning, 21, 51, 69. 
Puddings, 

Apple tapioca, 

Bread, 

Rice, 

Tapioca, 
See under Diet. 

Rash, 

See under Skin. 
Regurgitation, 

How recorded, 15, 18. 

Evidence of wrong feeding, 9. 



192 



HOW I KEPT MY BABY WELL. 



On record sheet, 17. 

Problem of, 21, 25, 27. 

1st month, 22 (I), 23, 24. 

2d month, 25, 26 (II), 27, 28. 

3d month, 30 (III), 33. 

4th month, 32 (IV). 33. 

5th month, 33, 34 (V). 

Cth month, 38, 40 (VI). 

7th month, 44 (VII), 40. 

8th month, 50 (VIII). 

9th month. 52 (IX). 

10th month, 59, 60 (X), 66. 

Summary, 116 (XXVI 4a), 129. 
Records, 11, 14. 16, 17, 18, 21, 23, 183. 
Remarks, general. 15. 

Circumcision, 179. 

Clothing, 169-177. 
See Clothing. 

Exercise, 177. 

Heritage. 179. 

Sucking thumb. 9?,, 113. 177. 

Vocabulary, 161-169. 
Rosorcin, 

See Medicines. 

See Skin. 

Resting while nursing, IS. 
Restlessness, 

See Tee-thing. 
Rib (ninth). 

See under Measurements. 
Rice. 

See under Diet. 
Rice cakes, Japanese, 

See under Diet. 
Rompers. 

See under Clothing. 

Sandals. 

See under Clothing. 
Scalp, 

See Skin. 

School of Mothercraft, 20. 
Shirt, 

See under Clothing. 
Shoulders, 

See under Measurements. 
Skin. 

Diet. 132 (XXX), 14.". 147. 
Healthy, 8. 
How recorded, 15. 
Treatment of. 

See Medication. 
Medication, 

Alboline, 143. 145, 147, 134a (XXX). 
Cold cream. 145, 147, 134a (XXX). 
Da noli ne. 145. 147. 134a (XXX). 
Oil of cade. 145. 147. 134a (XXX). 
Olive oil. for scalp, 105, 145, 147, 

134a (XXX). 

Resorcin, 145. 147. 134a (XXXK 
Salt baths. 145. 147. 134a (XXX). 
Sulphur, 145, 147. 134a (XXX). 
Vaseline (white), 145, 147, 134a 

(XXX). 

Violot emollient. 145, 147, 134a 
(XXX). 



Zinc ointment, 145, 147. 134a 
(XXX). 

On record sheet, 17. 
Record, 29, 33, 38, 39, 40 (VI), 42, 
43, 44 (VII), 48, 50 (VIII), 52 
(IX). 60 (X), 68 (XI), 70 (XII), 
72 (XIII), 74 (XIV), 76 (XV), 
78 (XVII), 90 (XXI), 92, 98 
(XXIV), 105. 

Treatment in health, 142. 143. 
Troubles, 143, 147, 132 (XXX). 
Anus, sore, 147. 
Face, sore, 147. 
Flesh, sore, 147. 
Pimples, 8, 10, 15, 18, Summary 

145. 
Rash, 

How recorded. 15. 
Record, 1st mo., 27 ; 2d mo., 29 ; 
fith mo.. 42 : 10th mo., 61, 62 ; 
Summary, 145, 132 (XXX). 
Scalp, 

Daily care. 143. 

Record, 6th mo., 40 (VI 42) ; 
12th mo., 70 (XII) ; 13th mo., 
72 (XIII) : 24th mo., 105; 
Summary, 132 (XXX), 145, 147. 
Summary, 132 (XXX), 145, 147. 
Slip. 

See under Clothing. 
Sleep, 

How recorded, 15. 
In health, 8. 
On record sheet. 17. 
Record. 22 (I), 23, 25, 26 (II), 29, 
30 (III), 32 (IV), 34 (V), 38, 39, 
40 (VI), 46, 44 (VII), 50 (VIII), 
51, 59. 52 (IX), 60 (X). 61, 66, 
68 (XI). 70 (XII), 72 (XIII), 74 
(XIV), 76 (XV). 77 (XVI), 78 
(XVII), 80 (XVIII), 82 (XIX). 
88 (XX). 90 (XXI), 92, 94 
(XXII), 96 (XXIII), 98 (XXIV), 
104, 105, 109 (XXV), 112. 
Summary, 130, 116 (XXVI 5). 
Soap, 

Effects of eating, 72 (XIII), 
Ivory, for washing, 142. 
Soup, chicken. 

See under Diet. 
Stockings. 175. 
Stomach, 9. 
Strength, 33. 
Sucking the Thumb. 177. 
Sugar, granulated, milk, 

See under Diet. 
Sulphur. 
See Skin. 
See Medicines. 

Summary of each month : 2d. 27 
3d, 33 :* 4th, 33 ; 5th, 33 ; 6th. 36 
7th. 43 ; 8th 49 : 9th, 51 : 10th. 59 
llth, 69 : 12th, 69 : 13th, 75 : 14th 75 
15th. 75 ; 16th. 75 : 17th, 79 : 18th, 
79 ; 19th. 79 ; 20th, 86 ; 21st, 86 ; 22d, 
93 : 23d, 95 ; 24th, 95 ; 25th, 107. 



INDEX. 



193 



Suppositories, 134. 
Sweater, 

See under Clothing. 
Syrup of rhubarb, 130. 

See Medicines. 

See 1st month. 

Tables of averages, misleading, 7. 
Tapioca, 

See Pudding under Diet. 
Temperature, 16, 181. 
Tannic acid, 

See Medicines. 

See Teething. 
Teething, teeth. 

Appearance, 159 (XXXVIII). 

Beginning to show, 57. 

Disturbed digestion, 10. 

Evidence of teething pains, 75, 100, 
160. 

How recorded, 15. 

Intestinal irregularities while 
teething, 77, 78, 79, 105, 161. 

Not responsible for all, 11. 

Problem of teething, 21, 95-107, 160. 

Record, 69, 93, 113. 

Restlessness. 62. 

Summary, 160-161. 

Tannic acid, 11, 93-100, ICO. 

Upsetting regular living, 52. 
Thinking, inductive, 13. 
Thumb, sucking the, 93, 177. 
Time nursing at breast, 

See under Diet. 
Time nursing begins, 

See under Diet. 
Tongue, 8, 10, 16. 
Triscuit, 

See under Diet. 

Underfeeding, 51, 55. 
6th month, 36. 
8th month, 51. 
9th month, 55. 

Variability, 184. 
Vaseline, 
See Medicines. 



See Skin. 
Violet emollient, 
See Medicines. 
See Skin. 

Vocabulary, 79, 161-169. 
Vomiting. 

Evidence of wrong feeding, 8. 
How recorded, 15. 
On record sheet, 17, 18. 
Record, 23, 26 (II), 28, 30 (III), 
32 (IV), 34, (V), 38, 40 (VI), 44 
(VII), 46, 50 (VIII), 52 (IX), 
55, 60 (X), 66, 68 (XI), 70 (XII), 
72 (XIII), 75, 76 (XV), 77 (XVI), 
78 (XVII), 80 (XVIII), 82 (XIX), 
86, 90 (XXI), 92, 98 (XXIV), 100. 
Summary, 116 (XXVI 4b), 130. 
Von Someren, Dr., consulted, 14. 

Waist, 

See under Measurements. 
Water, 

See under Diet. 
Weaning, 21, 51, 52, 59. 
Weight. 

Health in danger, 8. 
How recorded, 15. 
Increasing weight, 9. 
On record sheet, 17. 
Record, 1st mo., 23 ; 2d mo., 25, 29 ; 
3d mo., 33 ; 4th mo., 33 ; 6th mo., 
38, 42; 7th month, 48; 8th mo., 
49 ; 9th mo., 57 ; 10th mo., 69 ; 
21st mo., 93 ; 24th mo., 107 ; 25th 
mo., 112, 144 (XXXII). 
Summary, 152, 153 and 144 (XXXII). 
Wheat, 

See under Diet. 
Wheat flour, prepared, 

See under Diet. 

Wheat, shredded, 

See under Diet. 

Wheatena, 

See under Diet. 

Zinc ointment, 92, 143. 
See Skin. 
See Medicines. 



JEfturattanal 



iiMtf i> hit Onut iHmttr nin* 




WARWICK & YORK, Inc. 

laitimorr, 1. d. A. 



Moto- 
Sensory 

Develop- 
ment 

Observations 
on the First 
Three Years 
of a Child. 



By 

GEORGE 
V. N. 
DEARBORN 



Price: 

\1rno, 

215 + vi paycs, 
frontispiece. 

$1.50. 



Few subjects are of greater interest to 
the parents of young children or to 
school teachers with the truly scientific 
spirit of their profession than the evolu- 
tion of a child's mechanism of efficiency. 
To the psychologist, and to a less extent 
to the physiologist, acquaintance with the 
average course of this human unrolling 
is clearly a technical necesstiy. All these 
surely should welcome every competent 
new account of the first three years of 
human, life. 

This book, as its name implies, dis- 
cusses both the motor and the sensory 
development of an average child. It con- 
sists of careful observations of the steps 
in individual evolution with the addition 
of numerous notes and brief theoretic 
discussions of the observations. The 
chief emphasis has been put on the be- 
ginnings of voluntary movement and on 
the forerunning phenomena. These are 
consiuered from both the physiologic and 
psychologic points of view. 

The affective side of child-development 
is more fully treated than are the purely 
intellectual processes, although the moto- 
sensory evolution of ideation as exhibited 
in learning to talk is as amply considered 
as circumstances allowed and as was ex- 
pedient. 

A feature of the book is a careful 
chronologic epitome of the observed de- 
velopment, perhaps more detailed than in 
any work since the pioneer treatise of 
Freyer. This is given in two tables of 
considerable length, one of them ar- 
ranged alphabetically and the other by 
weeks. For purposes of reference these 
tables will be found of value. 

Throughout the book there is continual 
reference to the temporal and other re- 
lationships of mental development as 
noted in similar accounts by Preyer, Dar- 
win, Shinn, Moore, Major and others. 
These notes facilitate the use of the book 
for pedagogical purposes, and they also 
enable parents to judge more accurately 
of the natures of their children in com- 
parison with the average. 



WARWICK & YORK, Inc., BALTIMORE, MD. 



Spelling 

Efficiency 

in 

Relation 

to Age, 

Grade 

and Sex, 

and the 

Question 

of 

Transfer 



An Experi- 
mental and 

Critical 
Study of the 
Function of 
Method in the 
Teaching of 
Spelling. 



By 

J. E. 

WALLACE 
WAI.I.IN 



Price: 

12mo, cloth, 
vl, 91 payes. 

$1.26. 



There are few elementary school sub- 
jects in which inefficiency is more surely 
detected and reprobated in later life, and 
in the teaching of which the elementary 
schools are charged with more extrava- 
gant waste of time, than spelling. 7.2U 
per cent, of the time of the child in the 
elementary schools in ten of our largest 
cities is devoted to the study of spelling, 
and yet the complaint continues to be 
almost universally voiced that the ele- 
mentary and secondary school graduates 
have not learned how to spell. 

School superintendents and teachers 
have felt the justice and sting of these 
criticisms, and have attempted to pro- 
vide a remedy either by increasing the 
time devoted to spelling or by changing 
the methods of teaching. The results, 
however, have not in all cases proved 
satisfactory. 

Dr. Wallin, who has been offering 
courses in educational psychology and the 
principles of teaching in schools of edu- 
cation for a number of years, points out 
briefly in this monograph some of the 
fallacies involved in the exclusive use of 
the incidental method of teaching spell- 
ing, based upon the psychological prin- 
ciples which condition the reduction of 
mechanical subject-matter to the plane of 
automatism (spelling is of an instru- 
mental nature). By means of the re- 
sults of the very researches made in the 
past to demonstrate the adequacy of the 
incidental method, it is shown that its 
use has not justified the claims made in 
its behalf. On the other hand, the su- 
periority of a spelling drill technique, 
based upon the laws of habit formation, 
is shown, partlv by the author's own in- 
vestigation and partly by the results of 
a thoroughgoing application of the meth- 
od under control conditions during four 
years in a large school system. 

The book also discusses the relation of 
spelling efficiency to age, grade and sex : 
the facts derived from the tests are sup- 
ported by numerous tables, a number of 
practical conclusions are offered, and a 
bibliography is appended. 



When 
Should a 
Child 
Begin 
School? 

An Inquiry 
Into the 
Relation 
Between the 
Age of Entry 
and School 
Progress. 

By 

W. H. 
WINCH 



Price: 

12mo, cloth, 

10S pages. 

$1.25. 



Few educational questions have excited 
more general interest in recent years 
than that of the age at which children 
saould commence their attendance at 
school. On the one side we have the 
rule-of-three conclusion, felt rather than 
expressed as an inference, that the more 
teaching the child gets and the sooner 
he begins school the more progress he is 
sure to make. On the other we have had 
a strong feeling, now growing in inten- 
sity and range, that attendance in school, 
particularly in England, begins too early 
and that there is an educational disad- 
vantage in commencing as soon as the 
children of Great Britain do. While this 
investigation by Mr. Winch has special 
reference to England, where the school 
life begins at a much earlier period than 
in either America or Germany, the re- 
sults set forth by the author are of vital 
interest to all who have to do with the 
education of children. 

The effect of age of entry is considered 
from several points of view : 1. Does 
early entry at school enable the pupil to 
make more rapid advancement in school 
standing than entry at a later age? In 
other words, in a given grade are those 
pupils who entered school earlier found 
to constitute the younger portion of the 
class? 2. In the same grade some pupils 
may be doing work of a high degree of 
efficiency, others work of an inferior 
qualitv. To what extent does early entry 
correlate with high efficiency when tested 
by examinations? 3. How far does early 
entry depend upon social circumstances? 
4. What is the influence of early entry 
upon the subsequent behavior of pupils 
and upon their attentiveness to school 
work ? 

The results of Mr. Winch's inquiry are 
now published for the first time. Some 
of them have been privately circulated, 
and a few of the tables, together with 
the methods employed, were discussed 
some years ago at a meeting of the In- 
spectors of the Education Committee for 
Ixmdon. 



WARWICK & YORK, Inc., BALTIMORE, MD. 



Mental 
Fatigue 

"Die 

Goistige 

Ermtidung. 



By 

MAX 
OFFNER, 

Translated 
from the 
German by 
GUY 

MONTKOSE 
WHIFFLE 



Price: 

12mo, cloth, 
via, 133 pages. 

$1.25. 



This noteworthy monograph is a com- 
prehensive exposition of the nature of 
mental fatigue, of the methods proposed 
for measuring it, and of the results that 
have thus been obtained, with special 
reference to their application to class- 
room problems. 

The text is an amplification of a lecture 
delivered before the Munich association 
of gymnasial teachers, and its primary 
purpose is not to contribute to the ex- 
perimental investigation of fatigue, but 
to inform and to interest teachers. 

The following are among the topics dis- 
cussed : The nature and forms of fatigue, 
the symptoms of fatigue, the measure- 
ment of fatigue by physiological arid by 
psychological methods, the factors other 
than fatigue that affect efficiency of men- 
tal work practice, adaptation, warming- 
up, spurts, enthusiasm, etc. and the 
laws of fatigue. 

In considering the application of these 
laws to school-room problems, attention 
is given to the dependence of fatigue 
upon individual differences, upon age, 
puberty, the length of lesson periods, the 
number of lessons per day, the day of 
the week, the introduction of various 
rest pauses (recesses, holidays, vacations, 
etc.), change of occupation, the fatigue 
coefficient of the different studies, also to 
hygienic arrangement of the school pro- 
gram and other practical problems. A 
selected bibliography closes the mono- 
graph. 

The translation is offered with the con- 
viction that it will meet a very general 
demand on the part of the teacher of 
educational psychology and of the hy- 
giene of instruction for a clear and sys- 
tematic presentation of the problem of 
mental fatigue and its relation to school 
work. 



WARWICK & YORK, Inc., BALTIMORE, MD. 



Relative 

Efficiency 

of 

Phonetic 

Alpha- 

bets 



An Experi- 
mental Inves- 
tigation of 
the Compara- 
tive Merits of 
the Webster 
Key Alphabet 
and the 
Proposed Key 
Alphabet 
Submitted to 
the National 
Education 
Association. 



By 
QUY 

MONTRQSE 
WHIFFLE, 



Price: 

Svo, 60 pages. 

35c. paper 

binding. 

\VABWICK 



This monograph will exert a two-fold 
appeal to those who aim to keep abreast 
of present-day movements in education. 
First, in that it offers an excellent ex- 
ample of the application of the experi- 
mental method to a pedagogical problem, 
and in this respect will take its place as 
a contribution to experimental pedagogy ; 
secondly, in that it deals with an im- 
portant topic just now a matter of gen- 
eral discussion in educational circles. 

The National Education Association 
has under consideration the adoption of 
a new key-alphabet for phonetic nota- 
tion. The merits of the proposed alpha- 
bet have been the subject of extensive 
and lively debate, but no one has hither- 
to done the obvious thing and tried out 
the new alphabet under experimental 
conditions. This Dr. Whipple has ac- 
complished, and the results will interest 
every teacher who uses a phonetic alpha- 
bet in his class work as well as every 
educator who believes with the author 
that, in the school as well as in other 
realms of life, "you can tell by trying." 

In view of the fact that the subject of 
phonetic alphabets will be given much 
attention by educators during the next 
year, this work is offered at a price 
which will place it easily in reach of 
teachers in city and rural schools, and 
also the members of clubs and reading 
circles. 
& YORK, Inc., BALTIMORE, MD. 



Back- 
ward and 
Feeble- 
Minded 
Children 

A Series of 
Studies in 
Clinical 
Psychology. 



By 

EDMUND 
B. HUEY 



Price: 
12mo, 
200 page*, 
ill us. 
$1.40. 



Each of the more populous States has 
several thousand mental defectives, large 
numbers of whom are attending the pub- 
lic schools. They usually make little 
progress and are distressingly disturbing 
factors in' the regular classes. In Ger- 
many, and recently in France, and in 
some of our own cities, these children 
are being placed in special classes or in 
special schools, according to the degree 
of defect. Teachers and school experi- 
ence immediate relief, and the children 
themselves are the greatest beneficiaries. 
All the schools have these defectives, and 
the problem of recognizing and caring 
for them is an immediately pressing one 
in all our cities, towns and rural dis- 
tricts. 

Following a year in the clinics of Paris, 
Dr. Huey's position at Lincoln for nearly 
a year and a half involved making a 
mental examination of each new ad- 
mission to this, one of the largest state 
institutions for the feeble-minded. 

As research psychologist to the insti- 
tution Dr. Huey made careful psychologi- 
cal study of 35 selected cases which rep- 
resent the transition zone between feeble- 
mindedness and non-feeble-mindedness. 
These are just the border cases that puz- 
zle the school principal or the clinician. 
In this volume he presents case after 
case representing various types and 
groups of backward and feeble-minded 
children. The mental and physical char- 
acteristics of each child and the salient 
features of different groups are clearly 
stated, with charts which graphically 
present the results of various measure- 
ments and tests. 

The methods of making examinations 
and tests and of making observations and 
gathering data needed for the interpre- 
tation of any given case are illustrated 
in detail. The concreteness of the ma- 
terial and the abundance of illustrative 
examples will be appreciated by all, and 
make the studies intelligible even to 
those unfamiliar with psychological 
technique. 



WARWICK & YORK, Inc., BALTIMORE, MD. 



Experi- 
mental 
Studies 
of Mental 
Defectives 

A Critique of 
the Binet- 
Simon Tests 
and a Contri- 
bution to the 
Psychology 
of Epilepsy. 



By 

J. E. 

WALLACE 



Ph.D. 



About 

150 pages. 

$1.25. 



The Binet-Simon tests have been hailed 
by popular writers and even by some 
scientific workers as a wonderful mental 
X-ray machine, which will enable us to 
dissect the mental and moral mechan- 
isms of any normal or abnormal indi- 
vidual. But those who have had ex- 
tensive experience with these tests know 
that, despite their very great practical 
value, they have numerous imperfections 
and definite limitations. These imperfec- 
tions and limitations can be made known 
only by thoroughgoing trial on large 
groups of individuals by expert investi- 
gators. Dr. Wallin is well qualified by 
training and experience to undertake this 
work, and he has presented in this, the 
seventh of the series of Educational 
Psychology Monographs, a systematic 
critical study of the results of the Binet 
Scale when applied to a colony of epi- 
.leptic children, and has included a guide 
for the conduct of the tests. 

In the course of his study certain facts 
have been revealed concerning the men- 
tal status of the epileptic which should 
interest the schoolman as well as the 
alienist and the physician, for epileptic 
children constitute a numerous class 
which grades nearer the public school 
laggard than do feeble-minded children, 
and which cannot be reached by the cut- 
and-dried methods of the schools, but re- 
quires a special educational regime. 
Moreover, epilepsy, despite the investiga- 
tions of many alienists, still remains a 
little understood pathological condition 
with marked disturbance of mentality. 

We commend this contribution to the 
attention of physicians, alienists and all 
schoolmen who are interested in the 
scientific examination of mental de- 
ficiency. 



WARWICK & YORK, Inc., BALTIMORE, MD. 



Varia- 
tions in 
the 

Grades of 
High- 
School 
Pupils 



By 

CLARENCE 

TRUMAN 

GRAY. 



Vlmo, 
Cloth ca, 
120 pages. 

$1.25. 



Toil years ago no serious attempt had 
been made to study scientifically the 
relative merits of various systems of 
grading students, despite the fact that 
statistical methods for undertaking such 
studies were fully available and that 
grading plays so large a role in the 
school career of hundreds of thousands 
of school children. In the last five 
years, however, this inviting field has 
been the scene of numerous important 
investigations, so that we have at least 
arrived at a better understanding of the 
nature of the problem and of the general 
line along which progress must be made. 

In the present monograph Mr. Gray 
reports the methods and results of his 
investigation of one phase of the general 
problem, viz., the nature, degree ana 
causes of the variations occurring in the 
grades of high-school pupils. The gen- 
eral aim of his study is to base an edu- 
cational investigation upon school grades. 
It is usually argued that such marks 
are inaccurate, that they are complex, 
that they are not scientific, and, above 
all, that it is impossible to measure 
mental traits by such 'cold statistics as 
grades afford. In direct contrast to 
these arguments stands the fact that 
all promotions from the kindergarten 
through the university are based upon 
this so-called inaccurate, complex, unsci- 
entific and cold estimates of progress 
and achievement. One of the most vital 
and fundamental principles of any school 
system is its plan of promotions, and 
because of the close relation between 
promotions and grades there is the most 
urgent need that schoolmen become in- 
terested in the problems of grading. 
Variations in the Grades of High-School 
I'upils should interest all teachers, and 
more particularly all school administra- 
tors, because the author not only shows 
clearly how unreliable are the grades 
commonly given by teachers, and makes 
evident the need of instruction and train- 
ing in grading, but also presents a rela- 
tively simple method by means of which 
any high-school principal can study the 
condition of the grading in his own 
school and take due steps to remedy the 
faults that he may find. 



WARWICK & YORK, Inc., BALTIMORE, MD. 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



