HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 




THE SUNLIT DOORWAY OF A SUNLIT HOUSE 



HOUSEKEEPER'S 
HANDY BOOK 

BY 

LUCIA MILLET BAXTER 



WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 
BY MARY H. NORTHEND 




BOSTON AND NEW YORK 
HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY 

(be fiitcrsibe press C 
1913 




COPYRIGHT, 1913, BY LUCIA MILLET BAXTER 
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 



Published September IQIJ 






TO MY FRIENDS 
MR. AND MRS. ROSS TURNER 



PREFACE 

WHILE the writer was visiting friends in 
their country home not long ago, many ques- 
tions of domestic economy came up. It was 
suggested that a book devoted to such mat- 
ters would be of service to many housekeepers. 
This work is the result. The information 
contained herein is derived from practical 
experience. Naturally it has come from mani- 
fold sources; it has been accumulated in the 
course of observation and of practice; it is 
made up of knowledge handed down in the 
writer's family, and imparted by numerous 
friends, who herewith are accorded hearty 
thanks. 

L. M. B. 

MALDEN, MASS., June, 1913. 



CONTENTS 

CLEANLINESS AND HEALTH .... 1 
HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASIER . . . 11 

HOME SANITATION 20 

FOREIGN COOKING SO 

SALADS 51 

SANDWICHES . 74 

VEGETARIAN FOOD 83 

PRESERVING AND PICKLING . . . .108 

HOME-MADE CANDIES 129 

HINTS TO THE COOK 148 

A HELPING HAND IN THE LAUNDRY . . .161 

TOILET IDEAS 181 

EMERGENCIES 193 

NEEDLEWORK AND OTHER HANDWORK . . 204 
INDEX . . 253 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

THE SUNLIT DOORWAY OF A SUNLIT HOUSE 

Frontispiece 

AN EGG SALAD FOB LUNCHEON .... 32 

A STUFFED-BEET SALAD FOR DINNER ... 32 

A VEGETABLE SALAD FOR THE VEGETARIAN . 52 

A CHEESE AND JELLY SALAD FOR A RELISH . 52 

FRESH AIR IN THE BED-ROOM MEANS REFRESHING 

SLEEP 66 

CLEANLINESS IN THE KITCHEN MEANS PURE FOOD 72 

A SUNSHINY KITCHEN is THE BEST KITCHEN . 80 

A FIRE-PLACE GIVES CHEER AND VENTILATION 90 

SUNSHINE is THE BEST BATH-ROOM DISINFECTANT 108 

THE SUNLIGHT POURS INTO THIS PLEASANT ROOM 132 

UNCARPETED FLOORS WITH RUGS ARE MOST EASILY 

KEPT CLEAN 156 

SUNSHINE is THE CHIEF ORNAMENT OF THE 

HEALTHFUL HOUSE 160 

FRESH AIR is ESSENTIAL IN A HEALTHFUL BED- 
ROOM . 170 

xi 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

EVEN THE SIMPLEST DINING-ROOM MAY BE SUNNY 182 

THE BEST THING IN THIS GOOD ROOM is ITS SUN- 
NINESS 194 

LETTING IN THE SUNLIGHT 200 

HAVE THE BACK-DOOR AS ATTRACTIVE AS THE 
FRONT-DOOR . . 210 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 



HOUSEKEEPERS HANDY 
BOOK 

CLEANLINESS AND HEALTH 

MOTHER NATURE has given us lavishly 
three great helps to cleanliness: fresh air, sun- 
shine, and water. If we neglect to use these 
intelligently, what can we expect but disas- 
trous results? The care of the home and the 
family comes under the 'housemother's super- 
vision, whether it be immediately entrusted to 
mistress or maid; and much depends on her 
vigilance. A clean house means healthy chil- 
dren; and ignorance of the conditions in one's 
house may cost the life of the little ones. Care- 
less housekeeping promotes disease; there- 
fore, it is most important actually to know for 
one's self that the house is clean from garret 
to cellar. 

Vacuum cleaners, dustless dusters, and 
other labor lighteners make it possible to keep 
one's house freer than ever before from the 
1 



^ HOtJSSKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

germs collected in dust. A house that is kept 
clean all the time does not require the old- 
time spring cleaning, which not only so dis- 
gruntled the men members of the household, 
but so used up all the women that it might 
almost justly have been called the spring kill- 
ing. The most sanitary houses are without 
carpets; bare floors with rugs are more easily 
made clean, and kept free from dirt. 

How many of us realize that fresh air is 
a means to cleanliness, necessary to health 
as well as to good spirits? Open the windows 
every morning, rain or shine; damp air is 
better than impure air. On a cold day it will 
take only a short time to change the air. 
Remember, it is far easier to heat the clear 
cold air than the heavy close air so often 
found in houses, especially in winter. How- 
ever hot it is outdoors, the air of the house 
should be kept in circulation in the summer. 
When a house is shut up tight, in hot 
weather to keep it cool, and in cold weather 
to keep it warm, the confined air is usually 
intolerably impure. It has been shown that 
colds and other infectious diseases are pro- 




CLEANLINESS AND HEALTH 

moted as much by the bad air, containing 
emanations from unclean bodies in the con- 
fined conditions of the winter months, as by 
lack of oxygen in the air. 

Open the windows when sleeping; the old- 
time notion that night air is not good for us 
has been exploded. It is better, if one does 
not care to open the sash the full width, to 
open the window both top and bottom. If 
opened only in one place, half the space is 
required for the bad air to go out; and only a 
small space is left for the good air to come in. 
Many intelligent, thinking people are care- 
less in this respect; they do not give them- 
selves enough fresh air; and so they pay the 
penalty with sleeplessness, morning head- 
aches, pallid faces, white lips, and a general 
condition of anaemia. 

Children suffer particularly from this lack 
of fresh air when sleeping; and their vital 
forces, in consequence, are seriously depleted. 
The fresh air feeds and cleans the lungs; with- 
out it, the lungs are starved, and the child's 
body loses its strength and energy, and be- 
comes susceptible to disease germs. It would 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

be considered a disagreeable and unclean 
thing to bathe in water that had been used be- 
fore; but to breathe the same air over and 
over again is not commonly enough thought 
to be the unclean practice it is, or it would not 
be allowed by thoughtful persons. Take an 
early morning stroll, before people are out of 
bed, and see how few bedroom windows are 
open. After a tuberculosis exhibition in one of 
our great cities, attended largely by poor peo- 
ple, it was noticed that more windows were 
thrown open at night. 

Next to fresh air in the house, the beautiful 
and friendly sunshine is the most essential 
thing. Sunshine is life-giving, and is invalu- 
able as a curative agent. A house with no sun- 
shine is depressing; to a sensitive child, the 
lack of it will cause a lowering of the system. 
It has been noticed in hospitals that the re- 
covery of patients is slower on the north side 
in comparison with others kept on the south 
side, and in the sunlight. Every house should 
have abundant sunlight in every corner of its 
rooms. 

Through the windows conies all the light 
4 



CLEANLINESS AND HEALTH 

of the house; it is deplorable that so many 
houses are kept dark by draperies and blinds. 
How bad we should feel if we could not have 
full-sized windows in our houses ! Yet we are 
quite willing to waste half or even more 
of the space by covering it with opaque shades, 
shutting out just so much light, sunshine, 
and health. If you notice the windows in 
nearly all the houses even in the best parts of 
the city, you will see how dark the rooms must 
be inside. Who knows what demons of dis- 
ease maybe lurking in the dark corners within? 
Take two families of children, both equally 
well-fed; place one in the fresh air and sun- 
shine every day; keep the other under the 
roof, and with almost no fresh air. It would 
not take long to make the difference most ap- 
parent. The children used to being out-of- 
doors will be brown and rugged, with clear 
eyes, red lips, and good appetites; while the 
others will be pale, white-lipped, nervous, and 
fretful, and relishing almost no food. The 
sickly appearance of most of the children of 
the poor comes quite as often from air starva- 
tion at night as from malnutrition. 
5 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

It is important in the care of the house that 
every woman should have enough knowledge 
of plumbing to know how many traps are in 
the house, and where they are situated; and 
to be able to have them cleaned out at inter- 
vals depending on the size of the family, the 
process not being required quite so often in a 
small as in a large family. In some houses, the 
trap covers are sealed down, and not to be 
opened unless a plumber is called. This is 
wrong, and most dangerous to health. Flush- 
ing the traps and pipes often with boiling 
water one of the best of germ-killers is 
absolutely necessary , especially in the kitchen. 
It is of little use to employ any disinfectant 
without using also boiling water. 

The cellar is a place that is often neglected, 

being generally dark, cold, and disagreeably 

^ damp : conditions not conducive to cleanli- 

^ness and health. There should be some way 

of letting in the sunshine and fresh air to dry 

and purify the cellar. An unclean atmosphere 

in the cellar will permeate the whole house; 

it has often been the cause of illness to some 

member of a family. Nothing that will collect 

6 



CLEANLINESS AND HEALTH 

dampness should be permitted to stay in the 
cellar for any length of time, such as piles of 
old newspapers and barrels of dirty rags. To 
this latter cause was once traced the diph- 
theria of a child in an otherwise clean and well- 
ordered house. Vegetables and fruit, stored 
promiscuously in a cellar, will collect damp- 
ness and decay, and thus become dangerous 
to health. Personal supervision of the cellar 
by the mother in the house is almost more ne- 
cessary than supervision of any other part 
unless it be the ice-chest. 

How often the ice-chest becomes a menace 
when it is left wholly to the care of servants to 
clean as well and as seldom as they see 
fit ! What wonder is it that the milk does not 
agree with the child when it has become 
tainted with the foul air of the unclean and 
bad-smelling ice-chest ! If you will interview 
your ice-man, you will be surprised at what he 
will tell you of the conditions of ice-chests 
observed on his daily rounds. An evil odor is 
nature's way of warning; and when found, the 
cause should be promptly discovered and ob- 
literated. Everything in the ice-chest should 
7 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

be well-covered; an inverted tumbler or 
cup placed over the milk and cream jars. All 
liquids should be wiped up as soon as they are 
spilled, and bits of food should not be allowed 
to collect. Cooking-soda, used as a powder, is 
excellent as a cleanser, almost polishing the 
surfaces of chests lined with aluminum or 
zinc, as well as sweetening the air. Bits of 
charcoal, changed once in a while, are useful 
as a sweetener; but nothing will do much 
good, unless the chest is kept sweet and clean 
with hot water and pure soap, both being the 
most excellent disinfectants. The pan under 
the ice-chest is apt to be a great collector of 
germs. It should be emptied each day; 
washed and scalded often. If it becomes slimy, 
which may happen unless it is carefully 
watched, it is dangerous. To slime on the 
ice-chest pan might be traced many a sick- 
ness. 

Cleanliness in the kitchen means purity of 
the food. Laws have been passed to insure 
pure food; but on the house-mother depends 
much of the problem of keeping food uncon- 
taminated. There is no simple food test. Food 
8 



CLEANLINESS AND HEALTH 

that is wholesome will be known by its normal 
odor. Anything that smells queer, and tastes 
all right, we are apt to risk eating; we do not 
mind a slight attack of indigestion in conse- 
quence. With children it is different; and 
many of their complaints, especially in sum- 
mer, could easily be traced to tainted food. 
We demand pure water, and yet we habitu- 
ally put in it ice that has come to us covered 
with filth; washed carelessly, if at all. 

It is important that there should be strin- 
gent regulations for kitchen discipline; ob- 
served alike by members of the family, and all 
domestics. It would be desirable to have a set 
of simple printed rules posted permanently 
over the kitchen sink. Handle nothing in 
the kitchen before washing the hands in 
hot water and soap. Require all the dishes, 
after being washed in water and soap, to be 
sterilized by dipping in a pan of scalding hot 
water. Be sure they are washed and wiped 
with clean cloths, the lack of a clean dish- 
mop is where many a housekeeper slips up. 
Wash all fruits and vegetables thoroughly be- 
fore cooking or eating them. Vegetables, such 
9 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

as cabbage, cauliflower, or lettuce, should 
stand in salted water before being used. 
Kitchen discipline should require that a per- 
son never come from the toilet without thor- 
oughly cleansing the hands by washing with 
hot water and soap. Another important rule 
is that food should never be touched with 
spoon, knife, fork, or fingers that have come 
from the mouth. 

How many of us would care to have a 
health inspector visit our houses and pass 
judgment on the conditions found? Our gar- 
rets may be filled with the accumulation of 
years (most garrets are); and the cellars so 
bad that it is a puzzle to know where to be- 
gin to remedy their condition. It might be 
wise for us all to become house inspectors 
ourselves and thus insure the health of our 
families. 



HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASIER 

WITHIN a few years the study of house- 
keeping or domestic science has kept pace 
with other progressive movements. While 
there is still much that can be done, house- 
work is no longer the deadly monotonous 
thing or the drudgery it used to be. 

Colleges and public and private schools are 
giving courses of instruction in everything 
that tends to improve the home; household 
magazines are full of the newer methods in 
household economy ; there are experiment sta- 
tions at several colleges, in connection with 
the Agricultural Department at Washing- 
ton, a most admirable one for practical 
demonstrations conducted by Mr. Charles 
Barnard in Darien, Connecticut. The results 
of all these are available for persons desiring 
specific information, and can be obtained 
through the mail. 

Bread-mixers, cake-mixers, meat-grinders, 
double roasting-pans, casseroles, self-wring- 
11 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

ing mops, dustless dusters, the steam cooker, 
the Aladdin oven, the fireless cooker, the vac- 
uum cleaner, gas and electric cooking and 
heating apparatus : all these are practical and 
well-tested helps to make housekeeping inter- 
esting and easy. 

Washing-machines, run by electricity, or 
water power, or by hand (the latter according 
to the principle of the old pounder of our grand- 
mothers), do far better work, and with less 
wear and tear to the clothes than the usual 
washboard rubbing. The electric washing- 
machine is too expensive now to be generally 
used, but others are within the reach of a 
moderate pocketbook. 

The various vacuum cleaners do away with 
all sweeping, shaking of rugs, beating of 
mattresses, pillows, etc. There are so many 
on the market that one can buy one at al- 
most any price. 

Motors, either electric or hydraulic, for 
mangles, sewing-machines, ice-cream freezers, 
and other forms of domestic apparatus, are 
available and are increasing in use. 

Gas stoves have made the heavy coal-hod 
12 



HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASIER 

and the disagreeable dust from ashes things 
of the past in most urban and many suburban 
houses. A gas stove with a fireless cooker to 
help it is an ideal combination; the cooker 
lessens not only the labor but the gas expense; 
in summer the absence of heat is a great con- 
sideration. 

Casserole cooking is very common in France 
and not unfamiliar in this country. The cas- 
serole is an earthen dish with a cover, which 
by its long slow method of cooking tends to 
make the toughest meat tender and delicious 
in flavor. The remarkable device of paper- 
bag cooking makes use of the same principle. 

The fireless cooker is older than most of us 
realize. Some form of it has long been used 
in many parts of the world. In Norway, and 
in other parts of Europe it is called a "hay- 
box cooker"; sometimes a "Norwegian nest." 
When the American Indians heated stones 
and cooked food on the stones covered up 
with seaweed or wet leaves, the principle of 
heat retention was the same as in the fireless 
cooker. Clam-bakes and the old-fashioned 
brick oven were forms of fireless cookers; the 
13 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

clam-bake was taught by the Indians to the 
Pilgrim Fathers, and has been an institution 
on the New England coast ever since. 

When the fireless cooker was first put on 
the market it was used only to continue boil- 
ing or stewing operations begun over the fire. 
But improvements have been made, and now 
it will do almost anything a stove will do. 
The improved cooker is made with a metal 
lining; intensely heated disks or blocks of iron 
or soapstone retain the heat for a long time, 
and make it possible to bake bread, roast 
meat, or in fact do anything a stove will do in 
the cooking line. 

A simple cooker, which will answer many 
purposes, can readily be made at home with 
little expense or difficulty. Take a butter 
firkin, or a box that will shut securely. Line 
the receptacle with several thicknesses of 
paper or asbestos; put excelsior, ground cork 
that grapes are packed in, hay, or even news- 
papers, for about four or five inches in the 
bottom. Place on this in the middle a six- 
quart pail (or whatever size seems best) with 
an air-tight cover, and pack the material used 
14 



HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASIER 

for stuffing as tightly as possible about the 
pail, up to the level of the top, but not above 
it. Make a cushion to fit in snugly on the top 
of the pail; if your pail is covered tight and 
your box shuts snugly, your cooker will work, 
no matter how primitive it may be. This 
cooker may be improved by neatly tacking a 
lining over the hay; the space in the centre 
kept in shape by a cylinder of pasteboard in- 
side the lining to inclose the pail. A cooker 
packed with insulating material after the 
manner of the hay box should be thoroughly 
ventilated after being used, or treated with 
some rapidly evaporating deodorizer like 
formaline. 

The improved cooker is a box or cylindrical 
vessel so constructed as to be almost abso- 
lutely non-conducting when closed; the ves- 
sels previously heated, or the heated radia- 
tors, are placed inside without the insulating 
material or the cushion cover. This form is 
likely to be beyond the scope of simple home- 
made construction. 

One must use the fireless cooker to realize 
what a saving of heat and labor it means. 
15 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

There are several cookbooks dealing with the 
subject, but patient experimenting is the best 
way to learn to use the cooker. 

There are several things to remember in 
fireless cookery. If a dish is left too long in 
the cooker, without reheating, the food may 
sour. Some foods require a longer time on the 
fire before being put in the cooker than others; 
onions, beets, and string beans, for instance, 
need to be boiled half an hour before being 
placed in the cooker. 

There is almost no evaporation; therefore, 
care must be taken not to use too much water, 
and vegetables and meats need to be covered. 
The cooker must not be opened until the food 
is to be served, unless it is necessary to reheat. 
It is better, after a few hours, to reheat meat 
that seemed unusually tough, and vegetables 
like beets, that take a long time to cook. The 
slow cooking makes vegetables and meats 
tender, the flavor is retained in all foods, and 
the house is free from the odor of cooking. 
One can, in a fireless cooker of three compart- 
ments, put a vegetable in two of the places 
and ice-cream packed in salt and ice in the 
16 



HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASIER 

third. The principle is the same, the cooker 
retaining the cold as well as the heat. 

When electricity is cheap enough to use lib- 
erally, an electric stove, to start the kettles 
boiling and to heat the metal disks for the 
improved cooker, should make housekeeping 
still easier. An electric fireless cooker repre- 
sents the latest advance. It makes possible a 
very economical use of electric heat, and it has 
the great advantage of starting operations in 
the cooker itself instead of on the stove. 

Electric utensils. At present there are the 
electric chafing-dish, the toaster, the water- 
heater, the heating-pad (in place of a hot- 
water bottle), the small electric stove, and 
the electric iron, all within reach of the ad- 
vanced housekeeper. Electric flatirons are 
not very expensive to buy or to use; they cost 
little in electricity and, if carefully treated, 
waste less heat than other irons. 

Gas irons are a comfort to house-mothers 
with gas stoves. They are comparatively in- 
expensive and use far less gas than ordinary 
irons on a gas stove. The carbon iron is quite 
new on the market. The old-fashioned self- 
17 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

heating charcoal iron of our grandmothers is 
still used extensively in the tropical countries. 

A hygienic objection to the use of gas, oil, 
and other convenient forms of concentrated 
fuel, is that they vitiate the air with products 
of combustion, and unless there is provision 
for absolute ventilation under all circum- 
stances, their use is dangerous to health. 
When the products of combustion are imme- 
diately drawn off by means of a flue, as in 
the case of a cooking-stove, this objection 
does not obtain. On this account the use of 
electricity is greatly to be preferred. Clean, 
absolutely safe, and free from danger of ex- 
plosion, it is not injurious to the health, and 
in the end is likely to be more economical, 
even if the first cost is greater. 

Gas stoves. Gas ranges or cook-stoves are 
to be found in all the modern apartments in 
the cities and in large towns where gas is used 
for lighting purposes. The coal range, with 
its dirt and ashes, will soon be a thing of the 
past. Gas stoves are of all sizes and prices, 
from a tiny stove with only two burners and 
a small oven, for a kitchenette, to a large 
18 



HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASIER 

range with a hood, suitable for a very large 
family, or even a hotel. 

A gas stove permits the regulation of heat, 
and the results are accurate when handled 
carefully and intelligently. There is very 
little literature that one can read about using 
gas for cooking, but the gas companies are 
most helpful, sending demonstrators where- 
ever there is a stove; these demonstrators will 
teach the housekeeper many things necessary 
to know. 

The only real way to learn is to use the gas 
range, and make notes of valuable ideas as 
they come. Saving gas, and at the same time 
securing all the required heat and satisfac- 
tory results, is the great problem. Soon one 
may discover that a yellow flame means a 
loss of gas, and it is an economy to notify the 
gas company. A gas stove that is not kept 
clean burns more gas than is necessary; it is 
most important to clean the stove at least 
once a week. 



HOME SANITATION 

EVERY woman should have at command 
some practical knowledge of sanitation, for 
upon the home-maker or housekeeper rests 
the responsibility of creating and preserving 
the sanitary conditions of home life. Upon 
these conditions in a large measure the health 
of the household depends. 

Pure air is the first essential for a healthful 
home. The housekeeper should personally 
attend to the daily airing of every part of the 
house. In summer the windows should al- 
ways be open in every room, except when the 
rain comes in or when the wind is too high. 

Sunlight is one of the great factors essential 
to health. No matter if carpets, curtains, 
wall-paper, and cushions fade; never forget 
that health is more important than faded 
things. Never draw the curtains or shut the 
blinds in bedrooms during the daytime, par- 
ticularly on a sunny day. A room where the 
sun shines in is pretty sure to be the best place 
20 



HOME SANITATION 

to invigorate the body when asleep. Sunshine 
is a wonderful cure for the nerves; any one 
who has a south window and an easy-chair 
can have a sun-bath every sunny morning, 
summer and winter. 

Cellar. There is nowhere greater necessity 
for constant care than in the cellar of the 
house; it should be light if possible, and as 
dry and clean as any room in the house. 
Once a year the cellar should be whitewashed, 
and so sweetened. It should be swept often, 
and tidied up like the rest of the house. 

No decayed vegetables should be allowed to 
collect or anything that will retain the damp- 
ness; the air should be kept dry and pure by a 
constant current through the cellar. A clean, 
well-aired, and dry cellar will never smell. 

Plumbing. The care of a house increases in 
proportion to the plumbing. Odors are often 
found in houses where the plumbing is of the 
very best, but this can be helped and possibly 
prevented by the intelligent use of proper 
disinfectants. 

Kitchen sink. The kitchen sink should be 
treated every other week with a hot solution 
21 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

of sal-soda (washing-soda); the other drain- 
pipes in the house as often as once a month, 
unless there is illness, when it would be best 
to use a disinfectant in the bathrooms and 
all closets every day. 

A solution of sal-soda is made by dissolving 
one pint or one pound of sal-soda in four gal- 
lons of boiling water; pour this while hot into 
the pipes; for pipes which may be clogged 
with grease make the solution much stronger. 

A solution of copperas is very cheap, and 
excellent to use in drains and closets. This 
solution should be strong, using about one 
pound of copperas to one gallon of water. 

Carbolic acid, an excellent disinfectant, is 
disagreeable to most people because of its 
odor. A five per cent solution is made by dis- 
solving ten ounces of crystals in three gallons 
of water. 

Potassium permanganate has no odor and is 
known in England as Condy's Fluid. The 
solution can be easily made by dissolving 
two ounces of permanganate in one gallon of 
water or a few crystals can be dropped in the 
pipes and closets from time to time. Care 



HOME SANITATION 

must be taken, as a strong solution of this is a 
deep rich purple color and apt to stain. 

Care of the ice-chest. A neglected ice-chest 
is a menace to the life and health of the whole 
family. A well-ordered household should al- 
ways mean a sanitary refrigerator. Keep the 
box full of ice, as refrigeration checks the 
germs. 

One should be as particular in caring for 
an ice-chest during the winter months as in 
the summer-time. Keep a saucer of powdered 
charcoal standing in the ice-box. It will ab- 
sorb all odors and keep the air pure. When 
opening a refrigerator that has been closed 
for a long time, burn for an hour a small-sized 
sulphur candle, then cleanse thoroughly with 
warm soapy water and dry perfectly, exposing 
to air and sun if possible. It is most important 
to keep the ice-chest wholesome and sweet. 

It is also important that the door be kept 
closed; otherwise the temperature will rise and 
the ice melt rapidly. 

A good scalding is not necessary very often 
if the chest is kept clean. 

Remember that ice is apt to be dirty, and 
23 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

it is wise to watch the receptacle for the ice, 
that there be no leaves or anything collected 
there to decay or to clog the pipe. This pipe 
or the pan beneath should never be allowed 
to get slimy, as slime is a danger signal. 

Once a week wash the walls, sides, shelves, 
and every corner with cold water, borax, and 
any sweet pure soap, rinse with clear water 
and wipe dry. The shelves may be taken out 
and scalded, but must be chilled and wiped 
dry before they are returned. 

If anything .is spilled, wipe it up at once, 
and be sure each day that there are no refuse 
bits of food or berries lying about. 

It is best to keep everything covered; it is 
imperative that milk and butter should always 
be covered, and, if possible, kept in a sepa- 
rate apartment. 

Do not keep food too long, to spoil and sour, 
and thus scent up the ice-box. 

Pests. Few houses are entirely free from 
some pest, and the housekeeper has always 
to be on guard; absolute cleanliness and great 
vigilance are necessary if one expects to be 
entirely free from any of them. 
24 



HOME SANITATION 

Water-bugs. Make a solution of turpentine, 
three parts water to one of turpentine. Pour 
this in to the drain-pipes once a week. This will 
drive out the bugs to be killed when they ap- 
pear, but will not kill them. Cucumber skins 
will scare away water-bugs and roaches. Keep 
away all crawling things from sink and pantry 
by little cakes made of corn meal and a strong 
solution of borax. 

Ants. Alum or carbolic solutions are both 
disagreeable to ants, but our grandmothers 
used a remedy close at hand leaves of 
pennyroyal or tansy spread on the window 
ledge and shelves. To rid a place of red ants, 
take a plate greased with lard and set it over- 
night where the ants are troublesome. Place 
three or four sticks to lead up to the plate 
so that the ants can get to it easily; in the 
morning it will be covered with ants. Im- 
merse the plate in boiling water. If trou- 
bled by ants, fill a sponge with water and 
sprinkle with sugar; when it is fully inhabited 
kill the ants by scalding. Washing shelves in 
strong alum water will often drive ants away. 

Flies are one of our most dangerous pests; 
25 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

they carry disease germs on their feet, and 
cause typhoid fever and other infections. 
Therefore, it is very important to screen the 
house well. Often this does not keep them all 
out. Oil of lavender sprayed about the room 
will drive them away; or one teaspoonful 
of formaldehyde in a cup of water placed in 
saucers about the house will kill them. 

Mosquitoes are as dangerous as flies and 
have caused much disease. Yellow fever, 
malaria, elephantiasis, and blood poisoning 
have been traced directly to them. To keep 
off mosquitoes, apply equal quantities of oil 
of cedar and citronella sparingly to the face, 
hands, ankles, etc., or use the mixture with an 
atomizer. 

Cockroaches may be driven out by a hot 
alum solution bath in all the cracks and crev- 
ices, or by the free use of a solution of carbolic 
acid. It may require several applications to 
be effectual. 

Rats and mice. Rats are dangerous as being 

hosts for fleas. With infected fleas they cause 

the bubonic plague. Fill up all the holes with 

plaster of Paris, or the big rat-holes with mor- 

26 



HOME SANITATION 

tar and glass. Often a small mouse-hole can 
be filled with kitchen soap. Sprinkle sulphur 
about in bureau drawers, closets, and around 
the rat-holes in houses, sheds, or barns, and 
there will be no further trouble with either 
rats or mice. 

Moths and buffalo-bugs. Brushing, beating, 
and airing garments both winter and summer 
are necessary. Once no one ever thought the 
moth worked in the winter. But the heated 
houses keep these little creatures warm; so 
now they work all the year round. Always 
kill every moth miller found flying about the 
house; this will save more trouble than we 
realize at the time. If moths are found in 
a garment or in furs, take out into the air, 
brush well with a whisk broom, saturate with 
formaldehyde solution, and hang on the line. 
This kills not only the moths, but the eggs 
as well. If there are indications of moths or 
buffalo-bugs about the house, it would be 
advisable to wash the closets, the floor, and 
all the cracks, with a carbolic acid or tur- 
pentine solution. When moths are found in 
carpets, sweep the carpet well, and go over 
27 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

one breadth at a time with a sponge damp- 
ened in a turpentine solution made of three 
tablespoonfuls of turpentine in three quarts 
of cold water. 

Bed-bugs. The quickest way to get rid of 
this pest is by the use of naphtha, but this 
being very inflammable makes it a dangerous 
process and not one to be generally recom- 
mended. Thorough fumigation with sulphur 
is effective. Eternal vigilance, with chloride 
of lime or even kerosene applied generally 
and frequently, will do the work. Sometimes, 
however, it is necessary to tear off the wall- 
paper and use either enameline or paint, and 
to stain or paint the floors and all the furni- 
ture. By doing this one can be sure the pests 
are exterminated; but it is always best to 
keep a strict watch, for one can carry them in 
clothes, and they are to be found in the trains 
and electric cars. 

An excellent bug poison. One half pint each 
of turpentine and alcohol, and one ounce of 
sal ammoniac; mix all together, let stand in a 
warm place for a few days, and the mixture 
is ready for use. 

28 



HOME SANITATION 

Disinfection. After a contagious or infecti- 
ous disease in a house, the housekeeper should 
be able to deal with the simpler means of 
disinfection. Always remember that killing 
the odor does not necessarily kill the germ; 
the smell may disappear and the danger be 
left. Bichloride of mercury two tablets 
and two gallons of water, will make a solu- 
tion suitable for washing floors, mop-boards, 
or any woodwork. Sheets, towels, and napkins 
should soak for half an hour in a five per cent 
solution of carbolic acid and then be boiled in 
clear water half an hour. Boiling water is the 
best germicide known. Sunlight and outdoor 
air are also two splendid disinfectants. 

After a house has been closed for some time, 
every faucet should be opened and the water 
allowed to run freely for not less than an hour. 
This is particularly necessary in the bath- 
room, though the kitchen should not be ne- 
glected. After this has been done, ammonia 
should be poured down and allowed to stay in 
the traps for a time. If the waste pipes have 
not been flushed, they may be full of poison- 
ous gases. 



FOREIGN COOKING 

Fruit soups. In various foreign countries, 
especially in Sweden, Norway, and Germany, 
fruit soups are often served in summer. When 
combined with tapioca, cream, or milk they 
afford a certain amount of nourishment. 
Cherries, currants, grapes, strawberries, and 
blueberries are used for the soups in many 
different combinations. 

Strawberry soup. Cook half a cup of tapi- 
oca in three cups of water till it is transpar- 
ent. Add half a cup of sugar, two cups of 
strawberry juice, and two tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice. Let it come to a boil, take from 
the fire, and serve cold. 

Grape soup. Made as above, leaving out 
the lemon juice. 

Apple or apricot soup. Cook for one hour 
half a cup of dried apricots which have been 
well soaked, two tablespoonfuls each of raisins 
and raw rice, in three pints of water. When 
done, rub through a sieve and add salt and 
30 



FOREIGN COOKING 

sugar to taste. Dried apples, peaches, or 
prunes can be used, adding more or less 
sugar as required. 

Swedish salt fish. Soak the fish to get out 
some of the salt, but do not boil it. Butter a 
baking-dish, put in a layer of raw potatoes cut 
thin, then a layer of the fish shredded fine, 
bits of butter, a dash of pepper, but no salt. 
Repeat till the dish is full, then pour over 
it two eggs well beaten and milk enough to 
cover. Bake one hour. 

Bacalao d la peruana. Cook in the chafing- 
dish or frying-pan one cup of fresh or canned 
tomatoes, three cups of salted codfish which 
has been soaked in water till quite soft, 
half a cup of stale bread crumbs, two small 
green apples or pears grated, one quarter of a 
cup of finely chopped onions, a few chopped 
olives, Spanish peppers to taste, a pinch of 
dry mustard or curry powder, and, stirred in 
at the last moment, two hard boiled eggs 
sliced. 

Swedish meat-balls. Grind together one 
pound of fresh beef, half a pound of fresh 
31 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

pork, and one onion. Roll three common 
crackers and mix with the meat; add to this 
two well-beaten eggs, a dash of pepper, salt, 
and milk enough to roll into small balls. Fry 
in butter and serve with tomato or a rich 
brown sauce. (Potatoes mashed can take the 
place of the crackers if preferred.) 

Tomato sauce (for above). Cook half a can- 
ful of tomato with half a small onion for fif- 
teen minutes; strain and thicken with browned 
flour; season with little salt and paprika and 
teaspoonful of sugar. 

Brown sauce. Fry, but do not burn, two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped onion in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; add two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of flour, stir well, then add slowly 
two cups of stock, stir rapidly to keep smooth, 
simmer a few minutes, strain and flavor to 
taste. 

Russian pilaf. Cook one cup of rice till 
grains are softened, but not done too much. 
Shake one cup of this rice in a frying-pan with 
one quarter of a cup of butter, add half a cup 
of tomato and half a cup of cubes of cold 
chicken (or any cold meat), half a cup of stock ; 
32 





AN EGG SALAD FOR LUNCHEON 
A STUFFED-BEET SALAD FOR DINNER 



FOREIGN COOKING 

salt and pepper to taste; cook till of the right 
consistency. This can be made in the chafing- 
dish. 

The best way to cook rice for the pilaf so that 
every grain will be perfect. Wash one cup of 
rice in three waters. Have ready, boiling 
rapidly, two quarts of water, one teaspoonful 
of salt and one of butter, drop the rice into 
this slowly; do not stir with a spoon, but with 
a fork ; keep the grains from sticking to the 
kettle. At the end of twenty minutes test the 
rice by taking out a few grains. It should be 
tender and done enough. Turn into a colan- 
der, set back on the stove or in the oven to 
dry, shaking the colander once in a while. 
Every grain should be like popcorn, but if 
boiled too long it will be mushy. (The rice 
water is good as a basis for soups or sauces.) 

Kabobs (Turkish) . Cut a large onion and a 
large apple in thin slices. Lay on a platter or 
large plate with four thin strips of bacon and 
as many slices of cold lamb; sprinkle all 
lightly with pepper, salt, and ginger. String 
on an iron skewer, bacon, onion, meat, apple, 
and so on; when the skewer is full enough, 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

cook before the open fire or wrap in buttered 
paper and bake in the oven till done. Eat the 
kabob from the skewer. 

Italian sauce for beef. Heat together in a 
frying-pan a tablespoonful of butter, half an 
onion chopped fine, and a few mushrooms. 
When heated add half a cup of vinegar, salt 
and pepper, and a little mixed mustard; boil 
half an hour, strain, and add a teaspoonful of 
oil. 

Frijoles (Mexican) . The f rijole is a red bean, 
very much like the kidney bean, in great fa- 
vor in Mexico and California. The red beans 
and black beans found in markets usually may 
be prepared in the same way as frijoles. Soak 
the beans overnight in cold water, then add 
salt and cook slowly in the same water all day, 
until the beans are very soft and the liquor 
thick as chocolate. Drain the beans in a 
strainer, and save the liquor to use as a sauce. 
Cook one sliced onion and one Chili pepper in 
hot oil till crisp and brown, being very careful 
not to burn. Put a spoonful at a time of the 
beans into the hot fat, and fry till brown, and 
dry; then serve in the liquor in which they 
34 



FOREIGN COOKING 

were boiled. Instead of making little cakes, 
the beans can be fried all at once in one big 
flat cake with a crust like browned hash. Here 
are the same ingredients which New England- 
ers have in baked beans, but by cooking in 
this manner it makes a quite different dish. 

Frijole soup. After cooking the beans as 
directed in the preceding rule, do not fry, but 
add one tomato to each quart of the bean 
pulp, rub through a strainer, add water to re- 
duce to the proper consistency, and serve hot 
with slices of lemon and croutons. 

Yorkshire pudding (English). When roast- 
ing a piece of beef, lay it on sticks so that the 
juice will drop into the bottom of the pan. 
Three quarters of an hour before the beef is 
done, mix the following pudding and pour 
into the pan under the meat : One pint milk, 
four eggs well beaten, two cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of salt. Cut in squares and serve 
on the platter around the meat. 

Stewed chicken (Spanish) . Have a large fowl 

or chicken jointed as for fricassee. Put in a 

deep frying-pan a quarter of a cup of butter; 

in this brown the joints of chicken, which 

35 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

have been washed, wiped dry, and rolled in 
flour. When done, take from the fire and put 
into a kettle, turn over it a tomato sauce, and 
cover well with water. Simmer, but do not 
boil hard, till the chicken is very tender, keep- 
ing the kettle covered so that the steam will 
help cook the chicken; then add a can each 
of peas and mushrooms. Cook slowly fifteen 
minutes more, and thicken if necessary with 
brown flour. 

Tomato sauce for above is made by cooking, 
in the butter left from frying the chicken, two 
small onions and a can of tomatoes; strain, 
and thicken if necessary. 

Gullasch (Hungarian). Take three big on- 
ions to three pounds of beef, which should be 
cut in squares and well salted. Cut the onions 
quite fine, and fry in a large shallow stew-pan 
in oil or butter. Put the beef in the pan with 
the onions and stew about two hours. Do not 
add water until all the liquid is absorbed. Stir 
often. About a half -hour before serving, add 
potatoes cut in small pieces, and stew soft. If 
more gravy is wanted, boil the potatoes sep- 
arately and add only just before serving. 
36 



FOREIGN COOKING 

(This rule can be made smaller by using one 
onion to one pound of beef.) 

Mexican stuffed peppers (1). Cut large 
green peppers in halves, take out the seeds, 
and soak the peppers in salt and water for 
half an hour. Drain and stuff with a mixture 
made of tomatoes, bread crumbs, and season- 
ing to suit; tie the two parts together and boil 
for half an hour. The peppers may also be 
stuffed with any chopped meat, or one can 
vary the stuffing to suit the individual tastes. 

Mexican stuffed peppers (2). Cut the tops 
from green peppers and remove the insides; 
pour over them sufficient boiling water to 
cover; stand till the water is cool, then drain 
and wipe dry. Fill the peppers with well- 
seasoned cold meat, or a mixture of one cup of 
cold beef cut in cubes and two small bananas, 
four ounces of raisins, four ounces of almonds; 
or with sardines prepared by first removing 
the skin and bones, then adding a cup of bread 
crumbs, some grated cheese moistened to suit 
with tomato juice. Stand in a deep baking- 
dish, pour over them a cup of tomato soup, or 
one cup of hot water containing two table- 
37 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

spoonfuls of butter. Bake in a good oven 
till peppers are tender. 

Sholah pullow (East Indian). Kid or mut- 
ton, and rice, each, one seer; ghee, two thirds 
of a seer; onions, pallak greens, one quarter 
of a seer; turnips, beet roots, one third of a 
seer; moongha, mussur kadhall, chunnah pad- 
hall, one third of a seer each; cinnamon, four 
mashas; cloves, cardamon, two mashas each; 
black pepper, one masha; coriander seed, one 
tolah; green ginger, two tolahs; salt, three 
tolahs; garlic, one tolah. 

Sholah pullow (as adapted to the chafing- 
dish). Have already cooked one cup of rice, 
one cup of diced mutton, beets and turnips 
sliced thin or diced; add spinach if desired in 
place of pallak greens. (It is just as good if 
only the beet is used.) Fry the onions brown 
in the chafing-dish, using oil or butter in place 
of ghee. When browned ready, add diced 
mutton, rice, vegetables, spices to taste, and 
all the seeds you can get. 

Swiss eggs. Butter well a deep pie-plate, 
line with thin slices of cheese, pour over this 
half a cup of cream, seasoned with a little cay- 
38 



FOREIGN COOKING 

enne, break in as many eggs as the plate will 
hold, keeping the yolk perfect, pour half a cup 
of seasoned cream over this, and bake from 
ten to fifteen minutes. 

Omelet (Spanish). Make a plain omelet, 
allowing one egg to each person and one 
tablespoonful of water or milk to each egg. 
When done, fold in the following mixture of 
vegetables previously prepared : Cut fine and 
cook together in one rounded tablespoonful of 
butter, one onion, a tomato, a small green 
pepper, and a few mushrooms. (The Spanish 
also serve a plain omelet with tomato sauce.) 

Spanish onion. To make the onions into 
cups, cut out the centres ; pour enough boiling 
water to cover, and cook five minutes; then 
drain. (Be careful not to cook long enough to 
lose the shape of the onion cups.) Stuff with 
a mixture made of the centres, bread or 
cracker crumbs, butter, salt and pepper to 
taste. Stand side by side in a pan with enough 
water to cover the bottom. Cover and bake 
till tender. 

String beans. (German). String one quart 
of beans and cut in pieces an inch long; wash 
39 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

and drain. Melt in a saucepan one rounded 
tablespoonful of butter; add a little salt, a 
grating of nutmeg, a dash of pepper, and the 
beans. Cover and shake over a hot fire five 
minutes; then add half a cup of hot water 
and put the kettle where the beans may cook 
slowly, adding from time to time a small 
quantity of water as it evaporates. If the 
beans are new, they will be tender, but it 
will take almost an hour. (String beans will 
always be better for soaking overnight in 
enough water to cover.) 

French stuffed cucumbers. Cut cucumbers 
in halves, remove the seeds, drop into a 
kettle of boiling water, cook five minutes, 
then take out in a colander and let cold water 
run over them. Make a stuffing of two well- 
beaten eggs, one cup of bread crumbs, one cup 
of finely chopped meat, seasoned to taste with 
paprika and salt, making moist with a cup of 
cream. Stuff the cucumbers and put into a 
baking-dish, with half a cupful of stock (or if 
with water add two tablespoonfuls of butter), 
a slice of onion, a bay leaf, and a little white 
wine. Cook half an hour in a good oven. 
40 



FOREIGN COOKING 

Carrots (French). Wash and cut the car- 
rots in rounds, or if preferred in long strips. 
Put them in a saucepan and cover with water, 
or with chicken stock; cook till tender. Drain 
and save the water, which is delicious, made 
richer with butter and a little salt, as the stock 
for a soup. Make a cream dressing of one 
tablespoonful each of butter and flour mixed 
in a saucepan; add one cup of milk and stir 
till boiling. To this add the carrots, a little 
nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. 

Spaghetti a Vitalienne. This can be served 
at luncheon with bread and butter; no meat 
being served with it. Boil till tender one 
pound of spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted 
water. While this is boiling, make the tomato 
sauce. Put in a stew-pan one can of toma- 
toes, a half cup of boiling water, one tea- 
spoonful each of salt and sugar, a dash of pep- 
per and a few cloves; melt two tablespoons of 
butter, and brown in this a chopped onion; 
when brown, add two tablespoons of flour and 
stir till it is smooth; add this to the tomato, 
stir well, and cook about ten or fifteen min- 
utes; strain and keep hot. Drain the spa- 
41 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

ghetti when done, turn out on a hot platter, 
on which there is melted butter or olive oil; 
mix well, pour sauce over the spaghetti and 
sprinkle cheese over the top, just before serv- 
ing. (As many do not care for cheese, serve 
it grated in a bowl by itself.) 

Italian macaroni (1). Boil the macaroni in 
salted water thirty minutes. Melt in a sauce- 
pan and blend together half a cup of butter in 
a scant cup of tomato catsup; grate and have 
ready a cup of cheese. Drain the macaroni 
when done and pour over it the sauce, in 
which has been stirred the grated cheese, sav- 
ing out a little cheese to sprinkle over the top. 

Italian macaroni (2) . Break into inch pieces 
one cup of macaroni, boil in two quarts of 
boiling salted water; serve with the following 
sauce poured over it. Make a cream dressing 
of two tablespoons each of butter and flour, 
adding two cups of hot milk; stir till smooth; 
season with salt and paprika, and flavor with 
a cup of grated cheese. 

Creole sweet potatoes (Cuban) . Boil three or 
four medium-sized sweet potatoes; pare and 
cut in pieces. Cook slowly in a frying-pan 
42 



FOREIGN COOKING 

with one quarter of a cup of butter and half a 
cup of sugar; shake the pan often, being care- 
ful not to burn or break the pieces. 

Cabbage a la frangais. Boil the cabbage fif- 
teen minutes, shred coarsely, and put in a 
deep baking-dish. Pour over this a cream 
sauce, or a sauce made of twotablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, a scant teaspoon of salt, a dash 
of pepper, and four tablespoons of cream. 
Sprinkle with cheese, and bake half an hour. 

Cream sauce for cabbage. Melt one table- 
spoon of butter, stir in one tablespoon of flour; 
do not brown. When mixture bubbles, stir in 
one cup of milk; season to taste as taken from 
the fire. 

Corn pie (Cuban). Make a good pie-crust 
and line a deep dish, saving some of the crust 
for the top. Put into this first a layer of 
cooked rice, with small pieces of bacon over it; 
next, a layer of cooked chicken meat in pieces 
(not diced) ; and third, a layer of corn, either 
new sweet corn, or part of a can. Repeat until 
the dish is full; pepper and salt to taste; cover 
with top crust and bake until done. 

Spanish chestnuts (boiled; good to serve with 
43 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

roast chicken or roast meat). Cut a slit in the 
outside shell of the chestnut; boil till the inner 
brown skin will come off easily, about ten 
minutes. Make a sauce of two tablespoons 
each of butter and flour, and one cup of stock 
(or water) ; season to taste; add the chestnuts, 
and simmer ten minutes. 

Baked egg-plant (French). Soak in salted 
water for an hour thick slices of the peeled 
egg-plant; drain, and boil till tender, but not 
soft; drain. Put in a baking-dish in layers, 
sprinkling each layer with butter or olive oil, 
salt, paprika, and grated cheese. Cover the 
top with a thick layer of bread crumbs, grated 
cheese, dots of butter, and bake twenty min- 
utes. 

Spinach fritters (French). Boil spinach till 
tender, drain very dry, and chop fine. Mix 
together two cups of spinach, two raw eggs, 
butter size of an egg, salt, pepper, a little nut- 
meg, one half cup of cream, and one teaspoon 
of baking-powder. Fry like corn fritters. 

Honey-locust fritters (French). Dip the 
blossoms of the locust tree in an egg batter 
and fry in deep fat. It is not unusual in many 
44 



FOREIGN COOKING 

foreign countries to find flowers cooked in 
various ways. 

Aguacate avocado, or alligator pear salad 
(Mexican). Peel and remove the pits from 
two alligator pears. Mash the soft pulp and 
add two mashed and strained tomatoes, a 
little onion juice, salt, pepper (not red), and 
vinegar to taste. Beat together . and serve 
alone, or on thin slices of bread. 

Another delicious way to serve aguacate is 
to remove the large pit, fill its place with 
sherry wine and sugar and eat with a spoon as 
one would grape-fruit. 

(This fruit is available in the big markets 
when in season.) 

Scotch shortbread. Four rounding (not heap- 
ing) tablespoons of butter, two heaping table- 
spoons of sugar, ten rounding tablespoons of 
flour. Cream the butter, add the sugar, then 
the flour. Roll out; cut in rounds and bake 
light brown. This will make about fifteen 
small cakes. (The Scotch rule given was : four 
ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, five 
ounces of flour.) 

Swedish rolls. Scald one pint of milk; when 
45 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

lukewarm, stir into it half a cup of butter 
creamed with a quarter of a cup of sugar, the 
stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, and half a 
yeast-cake dissolved in half a cup of warm 
water. Add flour enough to knead; let rise as 
for any bread. Roll out half an inch thick, 
into rounds, raise again, and sprinkle with 
sugar just before putting into the oven. 

Cheesecake (German). Bake half a pound 
of butter, half a pound of cottage cheese, and 
half a pound of flour; sprinkle on top, before 
baking, poppy seeds or chopped almonds. 
When served, cut in two and put jelly between. 

Cheese cakes (English). Cook in double 
boiler, till it curds, one cup of sweet milk and 
one cup of very sour milk; strain and rub 
through a sieve. Beat with a wooden spoon 
the yolks of four eggs, one cup of sugar, juice 
of one lemon and grated rind; then add the 
curd. Line patty-pans with puff paste, press 
down to keep the air from between pan and 
pies, or use pastry shells. Fill these pans or 
shells with the curd mixture, scatter chopped 
almonds over the top, and bake in a moderate 
oven twelve minutes. 

46 



FOREIGN COOKING 

Bengal chutney. Boil together, till tender, 
seven apples chopped fine, one quarter of a 
pound each of brown sugar, mustard, and 
salt; two tablespoonfuls each of chopped gar- 
lic, onions, and raisins; one and a half pints of 
vinegar, and a dash of cayenne pepper. 

Pischinger torte (German layer cake). Mix 
seven ounces of unsalted butter creamed (one 
rounded tablespoonful is one ounce), seven 
ounces of melted sweet chocolate, three 
ounces of filberts, and three to four table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Roast the nuts 
in the frying-pan till you can rub the skins off. 
Then roast again with one tablespoon of 
powdered sugar, and pound fine. Stand on 
the ice ten minutes. Then take Karlsbad 
wafers (any thin wafer will do), six for each 
cake. Spread the mixture, putting one on top 
of another, leaving the top cake uncovered. 
Frost the whole with chocolate frosting and 
serve. 

Chocolate frosting. Dissolve two squares of 
chocolate and add a small piece of butter, re- 
move from the fire, and while hot stir in one 
unbeaten egg and one cup of powdered sugar. 
i 47 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

English tea cake (Bermudas). One pint of 
flour sifted with one heaping teaspoon of bak- 
ing-powder, two eggs, one tablespoon of sugar, 
butter the size of an egg, one cup of chopped 
raisins, and milk enough to make a good bat- 
ter. Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven, split, 
and butter. 

Swedish cake. Four eggs, one cup of sugar, 
one half a cup of Swedish flour, one teaspoon 
of baking-powder. Beat yolks, add sugar, 
then flour, baking-powder, and last the whites 
stiffly beaten. Bake in small tins, split, and 
fill with whipped cream. Serve with choco- 
late. 

English plum pudding. Three pounds of 
raisins carefully stoned, three pounds of cur- 
rants carefully washed and dried, one pound 
of sultanas, three pounds of suet chopped fine, 
two and a quarter pounds of sugar, one and a 
half pounds of bread crumbs, one and a half 
pounds of flour, four ounces of sweet almonds 
chopped fine, fourteen eggs, three quarters of 
an ounce of mixed spices, one and a half 
ounces of bitter almonds (pounded), three- 
quarters of a pound of candied peel (shaved 
48 



FOREIGN COOKING 

fine), two lemons (peel grated), three dessert- 
spoons of salt, three quarters of a pint of 
brandy. This will make several good-sized 
puddings. Put the mixture into bowls, allow 
for swelling, and tie firmly in cloths. Boil for 
seven or more hours. This will keep and can 
be served six months after making. 

Cafe Parfait (French). Mix, chill, and whip 
one pint of thick cream, one cup of granulated 
sugar, and one half a cup of coffee. Pack 
in salt and ice three hours. 

Mousse. Whip till stiff a half pint jar of 
thick cream and its equivalent in milk. Add 
half a cup of sugar, a quarter of a cup of cof- 
fee, and one teaspoon of cocoa. This can be 
varied by adding to the sugar, till the cup is 
full, crushed strawberries,, bananas, peaches, 
or any fruit in season, or a suitable flavoring. 
Pack in salt and ice and let stand three hours. 
(This will serve four people.) 

East Indian mustard (a relish to bread and 
butter). A quarter of a pound of mustard, 
quarter of a pound of flour, half an ounce of 
salt, four shallots, four tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar, four tablespoonfuls of catsup, quarter 
49 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

of a bottle of anchovy sauce. Put mustard, 
flour, and salt into a bowl, and make into a 
stiff paste with boiling water. Boil the shal- 
lots with the vinegar, catsup, and anchovy 
sauce for ten minutes, and pour boiling hot 
over the mixture in the bowl; stir and reduce 
to proper thickness; put into bottle with a 
bruised shallot at the bottom and store for 
use. This is an excellent relish and will last for 
years. 



SALADS 

THE old Spanish proverb tells us: "To 
make a perfect salad, there should be a spend- 
thrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a wise man 
for salt, and a madcap to stir the ingredients 
up and mix them well together." If properly 
made, there is no dish more wholesome or more 
appetizing than a salad. It is but little trouble 
to make a salad, and it is a good way to use 
up odds and ends of vegetables, fish, fruits, 
and meats. 

From a hygienic point of view salads are 
more valuable than is generally appreciated; 
particularly in the summer when the blood 
should be kept cool with food in which vege- 
tables and fruit predominate. 

A salad is not a success unless it is as attrac- 
tive to the eye as to the palate. All salads 
look and taste better if served on lettuce 
leaves. If a supply of lettuce is not on hand, 
trim the salad with parsley, or with nastur- 
tium leaves, and the effect will be attractive. 
51 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Common sorrel makes a good garnish and is 
used for a salad in other countries. 

Vegetables used for salad should be prepared 
carefully by freshening in cold water. Vege- 
table cutters in the shape of hearts, diamonds, 
stars, and crescents, are not expensive, and are 
invaluable for making a salad attractive. 

When possible, lemon, or preferably lime 
juice, should be used instead of vinegar. 
Those housekeepers who live in the orange 
belt are advised to use the juice of very sour 
oranges, which gives a delicious flavor. 

When using lettuce, always dry it thor- 
oughly, never cut, but tear or break it with 
the fingers, and in mixing use only a wooden 
spoon and fork. Salad with lettuce in it, or 
plain lettuce salad, must be served as soon as 
dressed, as the lettuce wilts very quickly. 

It is well to keep on hand a supply of nuts 
(pecans or English walnuts). Either of these 
is a great addition to many salads. 

SALAD DRESSINGS 

A simple mayonnaise, easily made. Put in a 
very cold bowl, the yolks of two fresh eggs, 
52 




A VEGETABLE SALAD FOR THE VEGETARIAN 
A CHEESE AND JELLY SALAD FOR A RELISH 



SALADS 

beat them, and stir in half a teaspoonful of 
salt, a dash of pepper, two tablespoonf uls each 
of vinegar and lemon juice. After mixing well, 
add half a cup of olive oil, a teaspoonful at a 
time, stirring all the time. Adding the acid 
first does away with the danger of curdling. 
Omitting the salt until the very last minute is 
also a sure preventive of curdling. 

Should a mayonnaise dressing curdle, drop 
a piece of ice in the dressing, but take it 
out almost immediately. The stiffly beaten 
white of an egg will make the dressing smooth 
again. Another yolk of an egg beaten in is a 
sure remedy. 

Mayonnaise (1). Mix one teaspoonful each 
of dry mustard and powdered sugar, a half 
teaspoonful of salt, one quarter of a saltspoon 
of cayenne in a bowl ; set in a dish of chopped 
ice to keep the dressing cold. Add the yolks 
of two eggs and stir well, until the yolks are 
smooth; add slowly the olive oil, a few drops 
at a time, stirring all the while. When the 
dressing is thick, thin it with a little lemon 
juice, then add oil and lemon juice alter- 
nately till you have used one pint of olive oil, 
53 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice; and 
lastly two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. The oil 
should thicken the eggs almost immediately; 
the mixture should be thick enough to take up 
in a ball on the spoon before adding the vine- 
gar. You will find it easier if you put the oil 
in a pitcher, holding the pitcher in one hand 
and stirring with the other. This dressing 
cannot be hurried, but do not stop to rest. 
When it is ready to serve, add half a cupful of 
whipped cream if you wish. 

Mayonnaise (2). Hundreds of housewives 
labor under the delusion that mayonnaise 
dressing must be made drop by drop. On the 
contrary, it can be made very quickly as fol- 
lows : Break one egg into four tablespoonfuls 
of salad oil, one of tarragon vinegar, half a 
teaspoonful of salt, and whip with an egg- 
beater. A thick mayonnaise is the instant re- 
sult if the egg is fresh. Note in breaking that 
the yoke stands still and firm if you would have 
your mayonnaise the same. No order of mixing 
is necessary. Mustard, white pepper, paprika, 
cayenne, celery salt, etc., may be added if 
desired. This makes enough for six plates. 
54 



SALADS 

A way to improve mayonnaise. In making 
mayonnaise with oil, try beating the white of 
one egg to a stiff froth and adding to it. It 
will prove delicious, and increase the quan- 
tity. 

Cream salad dressing. Beat the juice of two 
oranges and two lemons with two whole eggs 
and half a cup of sugar and boil till clear. 
Whip one cupful of cream and stir thoroughly 
into the lukewarm mixture. Set away to cool 
before using. 

Sour-cream salad dressing (1). One cup of 
sour cream, one tablespoonful each of sugar 
and lemon juice, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
half a saltspoon of white pepper. Mix well 
together, and it is ready to use. 

Sour -cream salad dressing (2). Mix well one 
pint of thick sour cream (not milk), three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, two of vinegar, one 
level tablespoon of salt, one saltspoon of pa- 
prika, and half a saltspoon of black pepper. 

Sour-cream salad dressing (3). Make usual 

mayonnaise with the yolk of one egg (raw), 

one saltspoon each of paprika and mustard, 

and one cup of oil. Add the oil in small por- 

55 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

tions till the mixture thickens, then add two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, and when ready 
to serve, stir in half a cup of sour cream. 

Whipped-cream dressing. Whip stiffly half 
a pint or one cup of thick cream; add slowly 
two tablespoonfuls each of lime or lemon juice 
and horse-radish, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a dash of pepper. (This is excellent for fish 
salad.) 

Boiled salad dressing (1). Three eggs, one 
cup each of vinegar, milk or cream, one table- 
spoonful each of sugar, salt, mustard, and 
olive oil. Steam in double boiler, stirring 
occasionally, till like a thin custard. (This 
makes a large quantity and will keep well.) 

Boiled salad dressing (2) very simple. Two 
eggs well beaten, one teaspoonful each of 
sugar, salt, and mustard, two tablespoontuls 
of vinegar, butter the size of an egg; cook in 
double boiler till quite thick; when taken from 
the fire thin by adding milk or cream. 

French dressing. Rub the bowl with garlic 

or an onion. Tear the lettuce (one head) into 

small pieces, pour over and stir into this three 

tablespoonfuls of salad oil; mix in salad spoon, 

56 



SALADS 

one saltspoonful of salt sprinkled well with 
pepper, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and al- 
most fill the spoon with lime or lemon juice 
(preferably lime, which gives a delicate flavor), 
or tarragon vinegar. 

SALADS 

Apple and date salad. One cup of apple 
cubes, one cup of dates stoned and cut up fine, 
is an easy salad to prepare and most delicious. 
Serve it on lettuce leaves with French dress- 
ing. 

(When making apple salad, pour over the 
apples, as soon as cut, a little lemon juice, to 
improve the taste as well as to keep the ap- 
ples from getting discoloured.) 

Apple and pomelo salad. Remove the pulp 
carefully from two pomelo (grapefruit) ; pare 
and slice an equal amount of apples. Serve 
with a French dressing in lettuce cups. 

Asparagus salad. Take cold asparagus tips 
or a can of asparagus; mix with French dress- 
ing, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Banana salad (1). Peel and slice bananas 
once lengthwise, arrange on lettuce leaves, 
57 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

sprinkle or roll in ground walnuts, peanuts, or 
pecan nuts. Serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Banana salad (2) . This fruit salad requires 
mayonnaise dressing. Peel "the bananas, cut 
across in halves, and then cut each piece 
lengthwise. Dip each piece in mayonnaise 
and lay two on a bed of shredded lettuce and 
two more across (like a log cabin). Use one 
banana for each person. Wash the lettuce, 
shake it dry, roll the leaves up tight, and cut 
in shreds with scissors or a sharp knife; form 
of these little nests for the sliced bananas. 

Beef salad with green peas. Line the salad 
bowl with fresh, crisp lettuce leaves, add two 
cups of boiled or roasted beef cut in small 
pieces, one third of a cup of cooked peas. 
Season well with pepper and salt and a liberal 
amount of salad dressing. Garnish with rings 
of the whites of hard-boiled eggs and serve 
very cold. 

Beet salad. Slice cold boiled beets and cut 
into dice; serve on lettuce leaves and cover 
with French dressing. 

Brick salad. Take two cupfuls of mashed 
58 



SALADS 

t 

potatoes, two large onions chopped fine, two 
hard-boiled eggs, whites and yolks separate. 
Chop the whites fine, and put in with the 
potatoes; take the yolks while warm, add 
a tablespoonful of sugar, one third cupful of 
vinegar; mix well, add to the potatoes, then 
mould in small bricks. Serve with sprigs of 
parsley or lettuce. Put on ice until ready to 
serve. 

Cabbage salad. Chop the cabbage fine, 
sprinkle with salt, and let it stand overnight. 
Beat one egg thoroughly, and add to one cup 
of boiling vinegar; rub one teaspoonful of 
mustard into more vinegar to form a smooth 
paste; add this to the boiling vinegar and 
pepper to taste. Let all come to a boil, and 
pour over the cabbage, stirring this roughly. 
Serve cool with lettuce, or in cups made from 
hollowed peppers, tomatoes, or cooked beets. 

Cabbage salad with walnut meats. Select a 
firm white head ; remove the loose leaves, cut 
the cabbage in two, place one half on a board 
and with a sharp knife shred it fine; then dress 
with the following : Rub the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs to a smooth paste and mix them 
59 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 



with two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful each of 
salt, white pepper, and made mustard, and let 
it stand five minutes. Then stir in a cupful of 
vinegar and pour over the shredded cabbage. 
Sprinkle with walnuts and serve with cheese 
sandwiches. 

Cauliflower salad. Stand a firm white cauli- 
flower in salt water for half an hour, then 
cook it in boiling water. When cold break it 
into small pieces or flowers; line a salad bowl 
with the best crisp leaves of a head of lettuce. 
Roll up the other leaves and cut in fine rib- 
bons with scissors. Mix the cut lettuce with 
the cauliflower. Serve in a nest of leaves and 
pour over either a French or boiled dressing. 

Cherry salad. Cut in two and remove the 
pits from red, white, and black cherries; 
dress the cherries with French dressing half an 
hour before they are served, and leave them 
on the ice. 

Chicken salad. Marinate, with French 

dressing, two cups of chicken meat cut into 

dice, two cups of celery cut in small pieces. 

Put in the ice-box for half an hour or more. 

60 



SALADS 

Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise 
dressing and garnish with hard-boiled eggs 
cut in slices. 

Choice salad of sweetbreads. Soak a pair of 
sweetbreads in cold salted water for three 
quarters of an hour, then cook until tender 
in boiling water containing a teaspoonful of 
vinegar and half a teaspoonful of salt. After 
taking from the fire, drop a minute into cold 
water to harden, cut out the pipes, and cut 
the sweetbreads into small pieces. Chill in 
the ice-box, and when ready to serve mix with 
two cold cucumbers cut in very thin slices. 
Dress with mayonnaise, and serve on lettuce 
leaves, in the halves of cucumbers hollowed 
out for cases, or in the centre of tomatoes. 

Cream cheese salad (1). The cheese may 
be made into small balls, either white or 
tinted pale green (the coloring procured by 
chopping a little spinach and pressing). Ar- 
range in nests of lettuce and mayonnaise, and 
sprinkle the balls with red pepper ' if you 
like. Garnish with nasturtiums. When serv- 
ing a cream cheese salad, always pass toasted 
wafers with it. 

61 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Cream cheese salad (2) . Grind or chop very 
fine English walnuts; mix with rich cream 
cheese, roll into balls, press an olive into each 
side; and serve with lettuce leaves and may- 
onnaise dressing. 

Cheese and pimento salad. Break up two 
cream cheeses and mix with two dozen olives 
and six pimentos chopped fine, or two dozen 
pimolas cut into fine strips. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with French dressing. 

Chestnut salad. Boil big chestnuts in their 
shell till they crack open. (This takes forty 
minutes.) Remove the shell and the brown 
skin, cut into small pieces, but be careful 
not to crumble. Serve on leaves of lettuce 
with any kind of dressing, preferably French 
dressing. 

Cucumber salad. Stew sliced cucumbers in 
water enough to cover them; season with salt 
and cayenne; strain off the water and put 
into a mould. Over this pour a pint of hot 
water in which a tablespoonful of gelatine has 
been dissolved. When cold serve on white 
lettuce with French dressing. 

Cucumber jelly salad. Simmer together, and 



SALADS 

press when done through a sieve, two cucum- 
bers pared and sliced, one onion, a stalk of 
celery, a piece of green pepper. Season with 
salt, pepper, and lemon juice. To each pint 
of the liquid add two tablespoons of granu- 
lated gelatine which has soaked in one quar- 
ter of a cup of cold water; stir well till the gel- 
atine is dissolved. Tint delicately with green 
vegetable coloring and strain into individual 
moulds. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Egg salad. Boil six fresh eggs thirty min- 
utes, cut in slices, and serve in a bed of crisp 
fresh lettuce. Serve with small balls of Neu- 
chatel cheese and devilled crackers, which are 
made by taking butter thins, saltines, or any 
common cracker, spread with butter, dust 
lightly with cayenne, and set in the oven a 
few minutes to crisp. 

Fish salad (1). Free the remains of any cold 
fish from bones, and pull into flakes with the 
fingers. Chop onion and parsley fine and mix 
through it. (If onion is not liked, this may be 
omitted). Serve on lettuce, and garnish with 
little gherkins. 

63 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Fish salad (2). Mix with minced fish an 
equal quantity of cut celery, chopped cabbage, 
or shredded lettuce. Three salt anchovies, 
chopped with a dozen capers, may be added 
before mixing in the dressing. 

Generally speaking, fish salads taste better 
for luncheon, or the midday meal. 

Fruit salad (1) for dessert. Fruit salads 
(as they are called) are very popular, and 
often are served for a first course. Fill dainty 
pretty glasses with chopped pineapple, thinly 
sliced bananas, white grapes cut in half and 
seeded, the pulp and the juice of the orange, 
and a candied cherry or two on top. Cover 
with a dressing made of four tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, one gill of sherry, 
one tablespoonful of maraschino, and two of 
champagne. Stir till the sugar is dissolved, 
pour over the fruit and stand in a cold place 
an hour before serving. 

Fruit salad (2) for dessert. Blend such 
fruit as you like, oranges, bananas, plums, 
peaches, cherries, strawberries, etc. Chill the 
salad bowl, rub with geranium leaves, fill with 
alternate layers of the fruit, which must be 
64 



SALADS 

cold. Serve with a dressing made of the yolks 
of two eggs, beaten to a cream, gradually 
adding the juice of two lemons and one cup 
of powdered sugar. Garnish with geranium 
leaves and whatever small fruit is in season. 

Grape salad (1) for dessert. Cut Malaga 
grapes in two and remove the seeds; mix with 
half the quantity of sliced bananas, orange 
pulp, and a sprinkling of any kind of nuts. 
Pour over all a glass of sherry, one of mara- 
schino, and a cordial glass of brandy. Serve 
cold with powdered sugar. 

Grape salad (2) . Cut one pound of any kind 
of grapes in two, taking out the seeds, mix 
with one pint of chopped celery, and serve 
on lettuce leaves, either with a mayonnaise 
dressing or a French dressing made with 
lemon juice. 

Grapes of two colors make a pretty salad. 

Grape salad (3). Cut one heaping cupful of 
white grapes in two, and remove the seeds, 
add one small cup each of blanched almonds, 
apples cut in dice, and celery chopped quite 
fine. Dress with mayonnaise and serve on 
lettuce leaves in individual plates. 
65 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Lettuce, egg, and cheese salad. Cut three 
hard-boiled eggs, take out the yolks care- 
fully, cut off a slice from the whites so they 
will stand. Put a leaf or two of lettuce on a 
plate, crumble cheese over it, then add the 
yolks minced fine, stand the white cups on 
top, filled with mayonnaise. 

Lobster salad. Cut the meat of two small 
lobsters into small pieces. Season with salt 
and pepper, and pour over enough mayon- 
naise to moisten well. Put in the middle of a 
platter, garnish the edge with lettuce, pour 
over the rest of the dressing, and put slices of 
hard-boiled eggs and olives over the top. 

Lobster and egg salad. Mix two cups of lob- 
ster meat chopped fine with four hard-boiled 
eggs cut in slices. Serve with a mayonnaise 
dressing on lettuce or nasturtium leaves. 

Mushroom salad. Cut up and mix with 
French dressing equal quantities of mush- 
rooms and olives. Serve in tomato cups on 
leaves of lettuce, and with some mayonnaise 
if desired. 

Macedoine salad. Mix thoroughly with a 
salad dressing, one cup of cold string beans, 
66 



SALADS 

one cup of cold boiled potatoes, both cut fine, 
and one cup of green peas. Serve on lettuce 
leaves and garnish with small slices of cold 
beets. 

Melon salad. Scoop out with a tablespoon 
a ripe cantaloupe. Marinate with French 
dressing, and place on ice until ready to serve. 

Nasturtium salad. Slice equal quantities of 
cold boiled potatoes and ripe tomatoes, put in 
a salad bowl, and sprinkle with cloves. Make 
a border of nasturtium leaves and blossoms, 
allowing the stems to go well down into the 
centre of the bowl. Pour over the whole a 
French dressing and set on the ice an hour or 
two. When ready to serve, toss if desirable 
the flowers and vegetables together. 

Onion salad. Chop (not mince) a large 
Spanish onion, dress it as liked best, then 
freeze slightly, not solidly, but just enough so 
that it will be cold and delightfully crisp. 

Onion and bean salad. Peel and slice three 
medium-sized onions and let them stand in 
cold water half an hour. Then drain, dry on a 
napkin, cut in small pieces, and mix with two 
cups of cold baked beans. Serve with French 
67 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

dressing on lettuce leaves and garnish with 
stoned olives and slices of hard-boiled eggs. 

Okra salad (boiled). Select young pods, cut 
off the stem ends, bofl till tender in salt water. 
Drain well; pour over them when cold a 
French dressing, and serve. 

Okra salad (raw). Cut young pods thin, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, serve with 
alternate layers of okra and sliced onion, with 
a French dressing. 

Orange salad. (1). Slice four good-sized 
oranges, not over-sweet, in very thin slices, 
removing carefully all the seeds. Rub a 
salad bowl with garlic, and line the bowl with 
crisp young lettuce leaves, place the orange 
in the centre, and pour over all a French 
dressing. Then serve immediately. 

Orange salad (2) for dessert. Peel half a 
dozen oranges, cut in slices a quarter of an 
inch thick, remove the seeds and pith in the 
centre, put the fruit in a deep dish with the 
juice made by peeling and the thin yellow 
rind of one orange. Arrange in the dish, 
sprinkling with plenty of granulated sugar, 
and pouring over all a wine glass of curagao. 
68 



SALADS 

Blood oranges make a delicious salad, pleasing 
to the eye. 

Orange and banana salad. Slice bananas 
and oranges very thin, using them in the 
proportion of one orange to three bananas. 
Arrange on lettuce leaves, and use the boiled 
salad dressing. 

Orange mint salad (for dessert). Peel and 
remove the pulp from four large oranges; 
sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls each of sugar 
and chopped mint, one tablespoonful each of 
sherry wine and lemon juice. Chill by packing 
a short time in ice and salt. Serve in sherbet 
glasses, garnishing each glass with a sprig of 
mint. 

Oyster salad (1). Parboil one pint of oys- 
ters till the edges curl, drain and cool, then 
cut into pieces. Mix with this one cucumber 
sliced or cut lengthwise and seasoned to taste. 
Serve on water cress with any of the cream 
dressings. 

Pear salad (1). Little seckel pears, peeled, 
cut in half, and cored make a delicious salad. 
Serve with French dressing on leaves of let- 
tuce. Cherries are sometimes used with them. 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Pear salad (2). Core, pare, and peel any 
pear not too ripe and soft. Serve on lettuce 
leaves with a French dressing. If desired, 
chopped nuts may be added. 

Alligator pear. Aquacate avoca, or avocado, 
the delicate tropical fruit known as "alliga- 
tor pear," can be found in the market early 
in April, but is cheaper and more plentiful 
later in the season. Peel, cut in cubes or 
thin slices, and serve with French dressing. 
(Mayonnaise will spoil it for a true epicure.) 

Potato salad. Cut cold boiled potatoes into 
small cubes ; add peas in the proportion of one 
cupful of peas to three potatoes; add salad 
dressing and stand two hours before serving. 
Cold beans, beets, sliced cucumber, or chopped 
green peppers can be used to combine with 
potatoes. Some add merely a sliced onion. 
In this last case, chopped parsley or even 
chopped lettuce will give a little more color as 
well as flavor to the salad. Garnish with 
shrimps or nasturtium blossoms. 

Persian salad. Take two cold boiled pota- 
toes, six cold boiled eggs, one head of lettuce. 
Cut the potatoes in small dice, slice the eggs, 
70 



SALADS 

and shred part of the lettuce. Arrange all in a 
salad bowl and pour over a mayonnaise dress- 
ing. This should be served as soon as mixed, 
as the lettuce wilts very quickly. 

Scallop salad. Soak the scallops in salted 
water one hour, drain, cover with boiling 
water, and cook slowly half an hour. When 
cold, cut in slices or pick apart, and mix with 
half the quantity of celery cut into bits. If 
the celery season is past, shredded lettuce 
may be used. Serve on lettuce with mayon- 
naise or boiled dressing, and garnish with 
slices of lemon. 

Small-fruit salad (for dessert) . Sprinkle with 
sugar and mix (after stemming) strawberries, 
raspberries, currants, or any small fruit. 
After the sugar is dissolved, add six table- 
spoonfuls of wine or brandy, or three table- 
spoonfuls of any liquor. If desired a little 
powdered cinnamon improves the flavor. 

Sardine and shrimp salad. A box of sar- 
dines and a can of shrimps, served on lettuce 
leaves with either kind of dressing, will make 
a good salad. Garnish with radishes. 

Sardine salad. Lay one box of sardines, 
71 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

skinned and boned on a bed of crisp lettuce. 
Serve with a cream salad dressing and garnish 
with thin slices of lemon, or limes cut in halves. 

Shad roe salad. Boil a shad roe, separate 
the grains by washing in vinegar, place in a 
salad bowl with a pint of ripe tomatoes sliced 
thin on one head of lettuce. Dress with a 
French dressing, using lemon or lime juice 
in place of vinegar, and serve as soon as 
made. 

Strawberry salad. Choose the heart leaves 
of a head of lettuce, put a few strawberries in 
each sprinkled with powdered sugar; lay a 
teaspoon of mayonnaise on each portion and 
garnish with thin slices of lemon. 

Spinach salad. Cook the spinach, chop 
fine, mix when cold with French dressing. 
Serve on lettuce leaves with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs. 

Tomato and cucumber salad. Peel as many 
small ripe tomatoes as there are to be persons ; 
remove the hearts and set on the ice to cool. 
Pare cucumbers and chop coarsely, pour over 
a French dressing and serve in the tomato 
cups on a lettuce leaf. 
72 



SALADS 

Chopped olives or chopped mushrooms are 
delicious served in the tomato cups. 

Small, whole yellow tomatoes make another 
salad to please the eye as well as the palate. 

Tomato jelly salad. Cook for fifteen min- 
utes one half a can of tomatoes, a slice of 
onion, a clove or two, bit of bay leaf, one half 
teaspoon each of salt and paprika, strain; 
add four teaspoons of dissolved gelatine. 
Pour into individual moulds and chill. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 

Vegetable salad. Rub a large platter with 
garlic or a cut onion, arrange lettuce leaves all 
over the platter; upon these leaves put little 
mounds of vegetables cut in dice or sliced; 
string beans, peas, carrots, beets, cucumbers 
and tomatoes raw, potatoes or any vegetables 
the closet affords. Use French dressing or 
mayonnaise, and garnish with slices of hard- 
boiled eggs and olives. 

Waldorf salad. One cup of apples cut in 
cubes, one cup of celery, half a cup of English 
walnuts. Serve on lettuce with any kind of 
salad dressing and garnish with half walnuts. 



SANDWICHES 

THE secret of a sandwich is in the making. 
The bread if white should be firm, fine-grained, 
and surely one day old. Brown bread may be 
used the day it is made. To make sandwiches, 
melt or soften the butter a little, take the loaf 
of bread in one hand, butter it, cut off as thin 
a slice as possible, butter again, and so on. 
Spread with the filling which is made ready, 
lay on the second slice, or even a third; press 
together, and then cut off all the crust, or cut 
into fancy shapes, always leaving out the 
crust in making a delicate sandwich. Sand- 
wiches should never be made long before serv- 
ing. If they must stand, wrap them in thick 
brown paper, and over this put a doubled nap- 
kin wrung out in cold water. Waxed paper 
will keep them moist for a long time when 
traveling. 

Rolled sandwiches. For making rolled sand- 
wiches, use fresh bread, bread that is even 
twenty -four hours old will break. Cut in thin 
74 



SANDWICHES 

slices and spread with butter warmed slightly 
so as not to crumble the bread, or with a 
mayonnaise dressing. Lay on a lettuce leaf, 
or other filling, then roll up, fasten with a 
wooden toothpick, and put in a deep dish. 
Cover as before directed, and before serving 
remove the toothpick. 

Beef sandwich. To one cup of finely chopped 
raw roast beef add tomato catsup or Worces- 
tershire sauce to taste; blend together with 
a teaspoonful of melted butter. Spread on 
either whole wheat or white bread and cut 
into triangles or any fancy shape if desired. 

Baked-bean sandwich (1). Mash cold baked 
beans to a smooth paste; season with tomato 
catsup or mustard; spread on either whole 
wheat or white bread, and cut into triangles or 
any fancy shape. 

Baked-bean sandwich (2) . Mash cold baked 
beans to a smooth paste, season with tomato 
catsup or mustard, spread between buttered 
bread, either graham, brown, or white. If 
one likes onion, a few drops of onion juice 
makes a pleasant addition to the flavor. 

Banana sandwich. Butter, and cut into 
75 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

rounds, white or whole wheat bread; cover 
with thin slices of banana; add a dash of salt 
and sugar and a little lemon juice; then add 
the second round to complete the sandwich. 

Brown bread and water-cress sandwich. The 
bread should be well buttered, and only the 
water-cress leaves used. The cress being pun- 
gent gives a delicious flavor to the sandwich. 

Brown bread and cheese sandwich. Cut or 
grind green olives quite fine and mix with 
cream or Neuchatel cheese; spread thickly 
between thin slices of brown bread. 

Brown and white bread sandwich. One slice 
of brown bread and one of white, with any 
salad mixture between, makes an attractive 
sandwich. Another variation is made by tak- 
ing three thin slices of bread, two of brown 
and a thin white one in the middle, using 
either a sweet mixture or something more solid 
for filling, the kind of a sandwich depending 
upon whether it is to be used for an afternoon 
tea or a picnic. 

Chicken sandwich. Spread the bread lightly 
with butter, then a layer of the white meat of 
the chicken and a small white leaf of lettuce, 
76 



SANDWICHES 

with a dash of mayonnaise ; or chop the chicken 
fine and mix with a mayonnaise; this may be 
spread between slices of unbuttered bread; 
the mayonnaise makes it rich enough. 

Chicken and cheese sandwich. Mix to a paste 
two tablespoonfuls of cheese and one table- 
spoon of butter; spread this upon thin slices 
of bread, and lay on this either chopped 
chicken or thin slices of the white meat. 

Chestnut sandwich. Boil the nut till tender, 
peel and take off the brown skin, rub through 
a wire sieve, add a dash of salt, and spread 
between slices of buttered bread. 

Chocolate sandwich (sweet) . Mix till smooth 
five tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, two of 
Baker's cocoa, two of boiling water, and half 
a teaspoon of vanilla. When cool spread 
between slices of bread, or thin water biscuits. 

Cocoanut sandwich (sweet). Dissolve over 
heat one rounding tablespoonful of butter 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar; when cool, 
add two tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut, 
the juice of a lemon, and two well-beaten eggs. 
This must be cold when used for sandwiches. 

Cream sandwich. Whip half a cup of cream 
77 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

till stiff; then add a dash of pepper, celery 
salt, and a teaspoon of lemon juice, and 
spread between thin slices of bread. 

Cream mixed with any kind of jam in equal 
quantities is most delicious. 

Cucumber sandwich (1). Cut a cucumber 
very thin; let it stand in French dressing for 
half an hour; then drain, and place between 
two slices of bread; or chop cucumbers fine 
and mix with mayonnaise. 

Cucumber sandwich (2). Cut the cucumber 
lengthwise in thin shavings; stand half an 
hour in ice-cold water; drain dry; dress with 
mayonnaise, and lay between two slices of 
graham or white bread. 

Currant jelly sandwich (1). Beat together 
till smooth one half a cup each of currant jelly 
and peanut butter; then spread on thin slices 
of bread. 

Currant jelly sandwich (2). Mix Neuchatel 
or home-made cottage cheese with currant 
jelly till it is smooth and quite pink. Spread 
between slices of white bread, and cut in fancy 
shapes. This is most suitable for afternoon 
teas. 

78 



SANDWICHES 

Egg sandwich. Boil the eggs hard; when 
cool, shell and chop fine; add a little butter, 
pepper, and salt, or a little salad dressing to 
make the mixture soft and easy to spread. 
Spread on slices of white or brown bread. 

Egg and cheese sandwich. Mix well together 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and one 
tablespoonful of butter; season to taste; add 
any kind of grated cheese and spread on white 
bread and butter. 

Fig sandwich (sweet). Mix and cook till 
right to spread one cup of finely chopped figs, 
one third of a cup each of sugar and water, 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice. When cold, 
it is ready to use on thin wafers or thin slices 
of bread. 

Ginger sandwich. Cut preserved ginger as 
thin as possible, and use with white crisp 
leaves of lettuce between the slices of bread. 

Graham bread sandwich. Equal quantities 
of ground raisins and walnuts are delicious 
between thin slices of graham bread; also 
dates ground or cut fine, either alone, or mixed 
with cream cheese. 

Lettuce sandwich. A most popular sand- 
79 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

wich at afternoon teas is made by putting 
between thin slices of buttered bread a crisp 
leaf of lettuce well dressed in mayonnaise. 
Nasturtium leaves can also be used in this 
manner. They give a deliciously pungent 
flavor to a sandwich. 

Lemon honey for sweet sandwiches. Cook in 
a saucepan one cup of sugar, the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, the yolks of three 
eggs, the beaten white of one egg, and three 
tablespoonfuls of butter. When smooth it is 
ready to use, and makes a delicious filling for 
sandwiches. 

Marshmallow sandwich. Put between thin 
slices of well-buttered white bread a layer of 
sliced marshmallows, sprinkled if desired with 
nuts ground fine. It is just as good without 
the nuts. 

Onion sandwich. Chop two good-sized on- 
ions and one pickle very fine; mix with may- 
onnaise and serve between slices of white or 
brown bread. 

Olive sandwich. Chop fine the large green 
olives, mix with mayonnaise, and place be- 
tween biscuits or white bread. Chopped 
80 



SANDWICHES 

stuffed olives and cream cheese with mayon- 
naise, served between slices of whole wheat 
bread, are most delicious. 

Pimola sandwich. Cut or chop pimolas 
(olives stuffed with sweet pepper) very fine, 
mix with mayonnaise, and spread between 
slices of bread, using a leaf of lettuce if 
desired. 

Raisin sandwich (1). Cook till thick one 
half cup each of chopped raisins and walnuts, 
one third of a cup of sugar, and one half a cup 
of boiling water, then add one tablespoonful 
of lemon juice. When cool it is ready to use. 

Raisin sandwich (2). Remove the seeds 
from raisins cut in halves, lay closely together 
on thin slices of bread well buttered, or grind 
the seeded raisins fine, and spread between 
butter thins or any thin unsweetened wafer. 

Picnic sandwich. Buy the finger roll, cut or 
tear out the middle, and fill the centre with 
any solid sandwich mixture desired, or a 
salad of some kind. 

Sweet pepper sandwich. Soak the peppers a 
while in cold water (if too strong) ; then chop 
fine and mix to a paste with cream cheese and 
81 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

mayonnaise. Spread on thin slices of brown 
bread with all crust removed. 

Sardine sandwich. Bone and skin the sar- 
dines, sprinkle with lemon juice and spread 
on slices of brown bread. Smoked sardines 
are preferable. 

Peanut butter and cheese sandwich. Mix 
peanut butter and cream, thinned to right 
consistency with sour milk, and spread on 
white bread, or between any thin unsweetened 
wafers. 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

THIS chapter aims to state the case for a 
vegetarian diet. The main objection to a 
meat diet is purely hygienic. Comparatively 
recent investigations indicate that a diet of 
meat makes an excess of nitrogenous elements, 
which cannot be absorbed without poisonous 
or toxic effects. 

The toxic elements have to be thrown off, 
and the process induces colds, fevers, rheu- 
matism, and other illnesses by putting too 
great a strain on the different organs; the liver, 
bowels, kidneys, etc. Nitrogenous excess is 
regarded as harmful to persons of sedentary 
habits, particularly when not robust. 

Another objection to meat diet lies in its 
stimulating character, inducing a carnivorous, 
or meat-craving, appetite resembling in a de- 
gree that caused by the alcohol habit. Many 
people, who are quite sure they cannot live 
and keep strong and well without meat, may 
be said to have the meat habit; they really 
83 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

crave it for stimulation, not nourishment, as 
an inebriate craves alcohol. 

The peasant in many countries, who from 
necessity is obliged to abstain from meat, has 
proved by a vigor greater than in any other 
class that a meat diet is not essential to 
strength and endurance. 

The seeds of the leguminous plants, such 
as beans, peas, and lentils, are the most highly 
concentrated of all foods and contain more 
protein nourishment than any kind of meat. 
When cooked long at a low heat, as in a fireless 
cooker, they are made more easily digestible. 

Green peas are more nourishing than any 
other succulent vegetable. Green beans of all 
kinds are similar to green peas in that respect. 
Lentils baked, boiled, or stewed, served with 
jelly or apple sauce, are nourishing and most 
delicious. 

Wheat is the most important of all cereals. 
Spaghetti and macaroni, as well as white 
bread, are wheat-flour preparations. 

Indian corn, or its meal, comes next in 
value to wheat. It is highly nutritious. 

Rice has the least nitrogen of all grains, but 
84 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

it is one of the most easily digested, is a good 
addition to bread, and to the nitrogenous 
food, as beans, peas, and lentils. Rice in its 
unpolished state contains desirable elements 
eliminated by polishing for the market. 

Chestnuts, used as a vegetable instead of 
potatoes or rice, are wholesome and nourish- 
ing, though not easily digested by many. 
There is a richness in their flavor not found in 
any other vegetable, and in many parts of 
Southern Europe the peasants eat chestnuts 
twice a day. 

Milk is called the most perfect food, as it 
contains all the elements of nutrition. Strictly 
speaking, however, it is an animal food. 

Vegetables with little or no starch are cab- 
bage, turnips, parsnips, beets, celery, green 
beans, asparagus, egg-plant, artichokes, to- 
matoes, squash, cucumbers, spinach, and all 
green vegetables. 

There is no other green vegetable so valua- 
ble as spinach. It is rich in iron and other ele- 
ments which cleanse the blood; it should be 
eaten as often as twice a week when in season, 
and once a week in winter if possible. 
85 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Foods for growth and repair are eggs, milk, 
cheese, nuts; and combined with butter, 
cream, or oil, beans, peas and lentils. Eggs, 
milk, and cheese, though animal food, are 
freely eaten by many who are otherwise vege- 
tarian, not being meat. 

Recommended for heat and force are fats 
(butter, cream, oil), sugar, and the starchy 
foods, cereals, rice, corn, potatoes, and 
tapioca. 

As great care should be taken that vege- 
tables are not undercooked as that they are 
not overcooked. Most people do not cook 
them enough. A few lose their flavor, and are 
destroyed by being overdone; such are peas, 
corn, and cauliflower. 

Always wash lettuce, cabbage, dandelion, 
spinach, or any kind of greens, in water with 
half a cup of salt; it will drive out the worms 
or insects. It will also loosen the grit, often 
hard to get rid of. 

All green vegetables should be blanched 
to remove the bitter taste; it makes them 
greener and keeps them from wilting or los- 
ing flavor. 

86 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

Blanching. Wash clean, and put the vegeta- 
bles in a kettle of boiling water, boil till almost 
tender, remove from the fire, and chill in a 
colander by pouring cold water through 
them. Vegetables treated in this way can be 
set aside and used later in the day, or the next 
day, if kept chilled on the ice. 

The secret of success is in making the vege- 
table crisp in cold water, keeping the water 
boiling continuously, and not wholly cover- 
ing the kettle. Vegetables that are doubtful 
as to freshness become digestible if blanched 
and chilled as above. 

TIME-TABLE FOR VEGETABLES 

Shell beans. Boil half an hour to an hour. 

Green corn. Drop the ears into boiling water 
and boil from five to ten minutes, never very 
long. Too long a time will harden the kernels; 
it is wise to test after three minutes. If the 
milk in the corn is cooked, or it does not taste 
raw, it is done, no matter if it has cooked 
only two or three minutes. This vegetable is 
ruined and made indigestible when over- 
cooked. 

87 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Green peas. Drop slowly by handfuls into 
as little boiling water as possible; it is desir- 
able that the boiling shall not stop when the 
peas are dropped in. Cook twenty minutes. 
These may be easily hardened and spoiled by 
long cooking. 

Asparagus. The same time as for peas. 

Carrots. Boil until tender, about forty-five 
minutes. The time depends on size and 
age. 

Cabbage. Boil about three quarters of an 
hour if shredded, but be sure it is very tender. 
A whole cabbage will take from three to four 
hours. 

Sweet potatoes. Boil thirty minutes in salt 
water or bake in a hot oven one hour. 

White potatoes. Boil thirty minutes in salt 
water or bake in hot oven half an hour; if 
slow, one hour. Potatoes will spoil if over- 
cooked. 

Turnips. Boil from forty minutes to an 
hour or till tender. They should always be 
peeled and somewhat sweetened. 

Beets. Boil from one to two hours, accord- 
ing to the age, but always till tender; they 
88 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

cannot be overcooked. When boiled, if put 
in cold water the skin will slip off easily. 

Parsnips. Boil till tender, from forty-five 
minutes to an hour, according to the size. 

Spinach. Boil twenty minutes, or cook fif- 
teen minutes, in a small quantity of water 
with vessel uncovered. 

Greens. Boil thirty minutes in salted boil- 
ing water. 

Oyster-plant. Boil half an hour or till tender. 

String beans. Boil one hour, or even two. 

Cauliflower. Boil from forty-five minutes 
to an hour in salted boiling water. This vege- 
table is spoiled by overcooking. 

Winter squash. Pare, cut in pieces, boil or 
bake till tender. 

Onions. Boil about one hour, changing the 
water several times; they must cook until 
tender. 

SOUPS FOR VEGETARIANS 

Milk soup. Boil slowly, in two quarts of 
water, four potatoes and two onions; strain 
and mash through a colander; add one pint 
of milk, three tablespoonfuls of tapioca, two 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

tablespoonfuls of butter; pepper and salt to 
taste. Boil slowly, stir often for fifteen min- 
utes, then serve. 

Sorrel soup. Pick, wash, and cut off the 
stalks from three large handfuls of sorrel, 
put into a stewpan with a piece of butter the 
size of an egg and one tablespoonful of flour. 
Stew half an hour, pour in boiling water as re- 
quired, then boil half an hour. Have ready in 
the soup tureen one pint of good cream, pour 
the sorrel soup on this, beating well. The 
yolks of one or two eggs are added to the 
cream by some. 

Beet soup. Peel and simmer a small bunch 
of beets in half a pint or more of water till 
they are in a pulp; season with salt and pep- 
per, press through a sieve, and add one quart 
of milk; thicken with a tablespoonful of flour 
or two crackers rolled fine, and serve hot. 
(Old beets chopped can be used.) 

Chestnut soup. Shell and boil till tender 
one full cup of chestnuts; when done, mash 
well or rub through a colander. Melt one 
tablespoonful of butter, and rub into it till 
smooth one scant tablespoonful of flour. 
90 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

Stir this into one quart of milk; add the pre- 
pared chestnuts; season with salt and pepper, 
and a little nutmeg if desired. 

Cream of corn soup. To one quart of milk 
add one half a can of corn, season to taste, 
thicken a little, and strain. 

Corn and potato soup. Cook till soft, then 
rub through a sieve one pint of sliced potatoes. 
Stew one can of corn or its equal in green corn 
in milk for half an hour; rub through a sieve 
and mix with the potatoes. Season to taste, 
and if too thick, thin to suit with hot milk. 

Quick tomato soup. Rub through a strainer 
one quart of stewed or canned tomatoes and 
cook five minutes; then stir in a saltspoonful 
of baking-soda; when it stops foaming, add 
two crackers rolled fine, a tablespoonful of 
butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pa- 
prika, and one cup of scalding hot milk. Cook 
five minutes, and the soup is ready to serve. 

Baked bean soup. A delicious soup may be 
made from baked beans too dry to use any 
other way. Put beans into kettle, add water, 
cook till soft, adding water as it boils away; 
when almost ready to serve, season and add 
91 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

tomato catsup, about one tablespoonful to a 
plate. Strain before serving. 

Lentil soup. Boil till tender one cup of 
lentils in three pints of water; if water boils 
away, replenish with hot water. Slice, and 
add to the lentils one cooked carrot, one onion; 
and half an hour before serving add two bay 
leaves and some parsley. Season to taste and 
thicken if necessary. 

MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

Cheese fondu. Two cups of mild cheese cut 
in small pieces, one cup of cracker crumbs, 
two cups of milk, two eggs well beaten, salt, 
pepper, and mustard to taste. Mix and bake 
twenty minutes or half an hour. 

Succotash. Cook one cup and a half of Lima 
beans half an hour in slightly salted water; 
drain, and add the corn cut from six ears, a 
cupful of water, salt and pepper to taste. 
When the corn is tender, add a cupful of milk 
and butter to suit; if desirable add a little 
flour to thicken. This dish can be made from 
canned corn and beans, but is not as delicious 
as when made of the fresh vegetables. 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

Old Colony succotash (Plymouth and Cape 
Cod) . Add green corn, either fresh or canned, 
to beans half and half, and bake as beans usu- 
ally are baked. Butter may take the place 
of pork. This is the original succotash as 
learned by the Pilgrims from the Indians. 

Bread omelet. Soften two rounding table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs in six tablespoon- 
fuls of milk or cream. When soft, mash to a 
paste, then season to taste. Beat four eggs 
together, add the bread crumbs, cook in a hot 
buttered frying-pan, fold over, and serve. 

Bread and cheese omelet. Beat light five eggs 
and add to them one half a cup of bread 
crumbs soaked to a pulp in three quarters 
of a cup of milk and four tablespoonfuls of 
cheese. Fry to a delicate brown like any ome- 
let, remembering that bread crumbs are likely 
to scorch. 

Baked bread and cheese. Lay in a well- 
greased baking-dish thin slices of bread (not 
too dry) lightly buttered, and cover with bits 
of broken cheese, no matter how old or dry it 
is. Season to taste, filling the dish with alter- 
nate layers of bread and cheese. Beat two 
93 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

eggs, add one pint or more of milk and pour 
over the bread and cheese. Bake in a good 
oven. 

Stewed lentils. Wash two cups of lentils in 
cold water, set on the fire in two quarts of 
cold water, with butter, sliced onions, chopped 
parsley, and a little salt. Simmer about 
two hours and then drain through a sieve. Stir 
the lentils for ten minutes in a stewpan with 
two tablespoons of butter mixed with one of 
flour. Serve on a flat dish with a border of 
mashed potatoes. 

Corn pie. One can of corn, or its equivalent 
in fresh corn, two eggs beaten light, one cup of 
sweet milk, one tablespoonful of butter, pep- 
per and salt to taste. Bake in a moderate 
oven till brown. 

Green corn oysters (a good meat substitute). 
To one pint of green corn pulp add salt and 
pepper to taste, two well-beaten eggs, and 
flour enough to hold the pulp together. Saute 
by spoonfuls in frying-pan, first on one side 
and then the other. Serve hot. 

Corn fritters. Chop (not grind) fine one can 
of corn, add salt and pepper to taste, one egg 
94 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

beaten well, a small piece of butter, one half 
a cup of milk, arid two cups of flour sifted 
with one teaspoon of baking-powder. When 
smooth, fry in little cakes and serve in place of 
meat. 

Canned corn fritters. Beat two eggs, whites 
and yolks separately. Stir into the yolks two 
cups of milk, one cup of canned corn (chopped 
fine), and seasoning to taste. Thicken with 
flour in which is sifted one teaspoon of baking- 
powder, add the beaten whites last, and fry 
on a hot griddle. (It must be as thin as grid- 
dle-cake batter.) 

Scrambled eggs with asparagus. Six eggs, 
one tablespoon of butter and two of milk, salt 
and pepper to taste, green tops of a bunch 
of asparagus boiled tender. Put butter and 
milk in frying-pan, add the beaten eggs, stir 
till thick, add asparagus tops, season and 
serve. 

Scalloped corn is a delicious dish, prepared 
as any scallop, using cracker or bread crumbs, 
and moistening with milk. 

Boiled lentils. Wash and boil one cup of len- 
tils till tender; drain in a colander and lay 
95 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

them on buttered toast. Melt a little butter, 
pour over the lentils, and serve hot. 

Baked lentils. Bake as any baked bean, 
using butter instead of pork. 

A dainty way to serve eggs. Have ready 
rounds of toasted bread, or individual dishes, 
a teaspoon of butter in each. Allow one egg 
for each slice of bread or dish, beat the white 
stiff, put it on the bread and in the middle 
drop the yolk whole. Bake in the oven till the 
yolk is cooked a little and the white brown. 

A good supper dish. Slice (not very thin) 
common potatoes, and boil till done; turn into 
a saucepan with finely chopped cheese. Stir 
till cheese is melted and it looks like creamed 
potatoes; season to taste. 

Hot slaw. One quart of sliced uncooked 
cabbage, one egg, two tablespoonf uls of vine- 
gar, salt and pepper to taste. Stir together 
and steam half an hour. When served, add 
butter size of an egg. 

Stuffed potatoes. Bake large potatoes till 

done, cut open either at the end, saving 

the top to use as a cover, or the long way 

and scoop out the insides. Mix this with 

96 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

butter, a little salt and pepper, some grated 
cheese, and the yolk of an egg; refill and bake 
ten minutes. 

Escalloped potatoes. Pare and stand in cold 
water six large potatoes. Slice and cover bot- 
tom of baking-dish; then add a thin layer of 
sliced onions, -a little pepper and salt, and 
some bits of butter, another layer of potatoes, 
and so on, till the dish is full. Cover with 
milk and bake slowly till done, possibly one 
hour. 

Sweet potatoes (Southern style). Boil sweet 
potatoes till almost tender; pare, slice, and 
arrange in baking-dish with pieces of butter; 
sprinkle with sugar, and turn over them a 
wineglass of sherry; bake till brown. 

Baked sweet potatoes with sugar. Boil the 
potatoes and cut in slices. (Cold ones left over 
may be used.) Lay in a baking-dish, sprink- 
ling each layer with sugar, and have sugar for 
the top. Pour over them half a cup of water 
and bake till transparent. 

Potato puffs. Beat together one cup of cold 
mashed potatoes, half a cup of milk, one egg, 
a small piece of butter, seasoning to taste. 
97 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

When mixed well, bake in a quick oven in one 
big dish or in gem-pans. 

Curried potatoes. Slice a large onion and 
brown in two tablespoons of butter. Cut up 
boiled potatoes (about two cups) and put 
into the frying-pan with the onion, dredge 
with curry powder, add half a cup of water, a 
little salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cook ten 
minutes and serve hot. 

Rice (Southern style). Rice served as a 
vegetable is often used as a substitute for 
potatoes. Unpolished rice is more delicious 
than the usual rice. 

Rice should be served dry, steaming hot, 
never mushy, and with every grain separate. 
Wash one cup of rice, till the water is no longer 
cloudy; drain thoroughly. Boil briskly three 
cups of water, a scant teaspoon each of salt 
and butter; into this drop the rice gradually 
so as not to stop the boiling. Do not stir. 
The grains must be kept moving by the boil- 
ing water. Cook fifteen minutes; the rice will 
have absorbed the water. Place on the back 
of the stove or in the oven, to dry out. 

Rice gems. One cup of cold boiled rice, one 
98 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

egg, one cup of milk, one cup of flour, a quar- 
ter of a cup of sugar, a dash of salt. Bake in 
hot gem-pans. 

Rice and cheese. Boil one cup of rice; when 
done put in a baking-dish with one cup of milk 
and one cup of grated mild cheese. Brown in 
hot oven. 

Rice croquettes. Boil half a cup of rice till 
very soft; when cold beat in two eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar, and one teaspoon of 
salt. Form into balls, dust flour over them, 
roll in egg, and fry in stewpan or chafing-dish. 
Try baking croquettes instead of frying. 

Sauce for croquettes. Cook for five minutes 
one cup of sugar and one cup of water; add 
vanilla to taste, and use hot. 

Rice cakes. Mix together one egg, two cups 
of well-boiled rice, two tablespoonfuls of 
milk, half a cup of flour in which has been 
sifted half a teaspoon of baking-powder, one 
teaspoon of sugar. Fry in cakes and serve 
with maple syrup. 

Boiled rice may be varied in many ways. 
It is delicious combined with cheese as one 
would use macaroni, or with tomato a 
99 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

pinch of cayenne, a few drops of onion juice. 
Rice served with cabbage, with cream sauce, 
is a favorite combination. Rice and baked 
bananas are delicious together. Cook each 
separately; spread a spoonful of hot rice on a 
plate or saucer, and place on top a baked 
banana, just out of the oven. 

Oyster-plant cakes. Boil oyster-plant till 
soft, mash through a sieve, beat eggs light, 
allowing one egg to one teacup of vegetable. 
Form into balls with floured hands, and saute 
brown. 

Carrots. Peel and cut in rounds, in cubes, 
or in long strips. Cook in boiling salted water 
till tender. Serve with cream sauce. Or toss 
the carrots in the following mixture : For two 
cups of the cut carrots, take one tablespoon of 
butter, one teaspoon of sugar, lemon juice, 
and a little salt and pepper; put in a saucepan, 
add the carrots, and shake till the mixture is 
absorbed. Carrots and peas served together 
are appetizing. 

Fried carrots. Boil large carrots, peel and 
cut in halves, or even cut again; dip in batter 
made of half a cup of milk, half a cup of flour, 
100 



VEGETARIAN FO0B 



one egg, a little salt. Brown in hot oil or 
butter. 

Beets with vinegar sauce. Boil six beets till 
tender; drain; cover with cold water. Remove 
the skins and cut into thin slices or cubes. 
Mix two teaspoons of sugar with four table- 
spoons of cornstarch, and add half a cup of 
vinegar; stir until smooth, then add half a 
cup of boiling water, and cook over hot water 
ten minutes. Stir in one teaspoon of butter, 
pour sauce over the beets, and serve either 
hot or cold. 

Bananas baked. This fruit is most valuable 
as a vegetable, served with roast lamb, broiled 
chops, broiled chicken, etc. Peel and cut in 
half (lengthwise) as many bananas as are 
needed, one half a banana being enough for a 
single helping. For each half melt one tea- 
spoon of butter in one tablespoon of hot 
water. Arrange in earthen dish and pour over 
them this mixture. Sprinkle with sugar and 
a very little salt. Over this squeeze a little 
lemon, and perhaps a dash of nutmeg or a 
little allspice. Bake twenty-five minutes, or 
till brown. 

101 



; fiOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Bananas are also most delicious baked 
whole with skins removed, with a little water 
in the bottom of pan, and well sprinkled with 
sugar. They brown beautifully in this way, 
do not dry up, and keep the banana flavor 
distinct. 

Scalloped bananas. Peel and slice firm 
bananas, arrange in layers in a buttered 
baking-dish, sprinkle each layer lightly with 
salt and pepper and butter. When the dish is 
full pour in a cup of milk, or thin cream. 
Cover and bake slowly one hour; then remove 
cover and brown. 

Artichokes. Strip off the large outer leaves 
and break off the stalks ; lay the leaves down- 
ward for half an hour in salt water. Drain 
well ; put into boiling water, adding salt and a 
pinch of soda. Keep under the water and boil 
two hours. Test by drawing out a leaf; if it 
comes easily they are done. Drain, and serve 
with butter sauce. 

Jerusalem artichokes. Wash, boil like pota- 
toes, drain, peel, serve hot with butter on 
them. Or they may be mashed like any vege- 
table, with cream or milk, pepper and salt. 
102 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

Boiled pears as a vegetable. Take any hard 
winter pear; preferably the Vicar of Wakefield. 
Wash, do not peel, and boil whole in a kettle 
of hot water enough to cover; boil slowly (so 
that they will not lose their shape) till tender. 
If cooked too long, they are mushy and lose 
their flavor. Cut in two, add butter, pepper 
and salt to taste. Serve hot. 

Stuffed tomatoes. Cut off the tops and save 
for a cover later. Scoop out a little of the pulp 
from each tomato, mix with bread crumbs, 
butter and seasoning. Fill the tomatoes, put 
on the cover, and bake until done, but not 
until they lose their shape. A half -hour ought 
to be long enough. 

Tomato and egg. Cut off the top of each 
tomato, take out the centre, and drop in its 
place an egg, being careful not to break the 
yolk; season to taste, and bake till done, or 
till the egg looks cooked. 

Tomato cups. When used raw for salads or 
cold dishes, remove the skin and take out the 
centres; but if cooked, the skin is needed to 
keep them in shape. 

Tomato curry. Put in a baking-dish six 
103 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

tomatoes cut in halves or sliced thick; pour 
over them the following sauce: melt two table- 
spoons of butter, add one of flour, mix well, 
then add one cup of milk, one teaspoon 
of curry, a dash of pepper, two teaspoons 
of salt. Bake in the oven till tomatoes are 
done. 

Baked egg-plant. Boil the egg-plant for an 
hour. Cut in halves, take out the pulp, leav- 
ing a shell to be used later. Chop the pulp, 
season well, fill the shells, cover with bread 
crumbs and bits of butter and bake half 
an hour. Chopped mushrooms are delicious 
added to the mixture. 

Macaroni and tomato. Have plenty of salted 
water bubbling when the macaroni is dropped 
in. When the sticks are tender, throw in a 
glass of cold water to stop the boiling at once; 
then drain and rinse in cold water. 

Cook the macaroni as above, and between 
the layers spread the thick part of a can of 
tomatoes and a sprinkling of rolled bread or 
cracker crumbs. Over all pour the juice of the 
tomatoes, with a thicker sprinkling of crumbs, 
and dots of butter on top. Bake half an hour 
104 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

and serve piping hot. (Macaroni must never 
stop boiling until it is done.) 

Turnips. Parboil turnips twenty minutes 
in water with a little baking-soda ; throw away 
this water and add fresh, cooking till tender. 
This will make the turnip very tender and of 
better flavor. Turnips must all be peeled 
before cooking. 

Cucumbers, indigestible to many people, 
become a safe and delicate vegetable when 
cooked. 

Boiled cucumbers. Peel, cut in halves or 
quarters (lengthwise), put into salted boiling 
water; boil till tender, but not too soft, about 
twenty minutes. They may be served with 
butter and seasoning like vegetable marrow, 
or with a cream sauce on toast. Lemon juice 
and a dash of paprika added to the cream 
sauce will make a pleasant variation in flavor. 

Baked cucumbers. Cut in halves and boil 
until almost tender; place in a baking-dish, 
pour over them a cream sauce, cover the top 
with bread crumbs and bits of butter. Bake 
twenty minutes. 

Onions. The onion is very nutritious, being 
105 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

rich in nitrogen, and is also antiseptic. Onions 
may be stuffed and baked, boiled and served 
in cream sauce, or with butter, or milk. 

Apples and onions, baked in layers with a 
little butter, pepper and salt, and water 
enough to keep from burning, are a delicious 
dish. 

Baked cabbage. Cut a cabbage in quarters, 
take out the coarse stalk; cook fifteen minutes 
in boiling water, adding a pinch of soda to the 
water. Drain; add more boiling water and 
cook till tender, then chop fine. Turn into a 
baking-dish, pour over it a cream sauce, 
sprinkle over the top bread crumbs with 
butter, or cheese if preferred, and bake in a 
slow oven till brown. 

Cauliflower may be cooked as above. 

Mushrooms creamed. Peel, wash, and scrape 
the stems; cover with salted water and boil 
ten minutes. Prepare a cream sauce by rub- 
bing a tablespoonful of flour into a heaping 
tablespoonful of melted butter, stirring into 
this a cup of hot milk. Drain the mushrooms, 
add the cream sauce, and season with pepper 
and salt. 

106 



VEGETARIAN FOOD 

Mushrooms baked. Peel and cut off the 
stems. Put a layer in the bottom of a buttered 
baking-dish; pour over them some melted 
butter, a little lemon juice, salt and pepper; 
next a layer of mushrooms; cover and bake 
ten minutes in a hot oven. 

Mashed chestnuts. Boil the chestnuts till 
tender; peel off the brown skin; mash like 
potatoes, adding butter, salt and pepper, and 
milk or cream. 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

PRESERVING 

ALWAYS use a porcelain lined kettle, and a 
wooden spoon for stirring. Before commenc- 
ing to work, have everything ready. Bottles, 
tumblers, jars and their covers, must be 
washed clean and sterilized in scalding water. 
Always use new rubbers every season. In fill- 
ing the jars, set each one in something deep 
enough to allow the juice to overflow, keep 
a silver spoon or fork in the jar while it is 
being filled, and move it about gently to 
force out the air bubbles. While overflow- 
ing, quickly put on the cover as tight as possi- 
ble, and stand the jar upside down. When 
sure it is air-tight, put away in a cool dry 
closet; if in danger of freezing, cover with a 
paper bag or wrap each jar in newspaper. 

There are a few points about fruit that it is 

well to know, and remember. Good preserves 

cannot be made from bad fruit. Scrupulously 

avoid every trace of decayed fruit. Some fruits 

108 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

require very little sugar, and others are spoiled 
if a good deal of sugar is not used. Strawber- 
ries, currants, plums, gooseberries, cranber- 
ries, and sour apples require more sugar than 
raspberries, blackberries, peaches, pears, and 
quinces. 

Hard fruit, such as quinces and winter 
pears, must be boiled tender in clear water 
before adding the sugar. 

Strawberries and gooseberries may be used 
together, three quarts of strawberries to one 
quart of gooseberries. 

Red raspberries and currants make a deli- 
cious combination, two quarts of raspberries 
to one of currants. Hard apples may be used 
with the quinces and never be discovered. 

A pound of sugar (two cups) to a pint of 
juice is allowed for acid fruits, and three 
quarters of a pound for sweet. In fruits that 
jelly with difficulty a tablespoon of the best 
vinegar added to each gallon of cooked jelly 
remedies the trouble. 

The fruits for jams and marmalades must 
not be too ripe; thorough cooking is most 
important; remember marmalade requires 
109 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

i 

more cooking than jam. The general rule is 
three quarters of a pound of sugar to one 
pound of fruit. Jam and marmalade must be 
stirred constantly, with a wooden spoon, to 
keep from burning. To test marmalade, after 
cooking half an hour, take out a little; if no 
juice appears around the edge it is done. Use 
paraffin over the tumblers of jelly and jam to 
exclude the air and prevent moulding; melt 
the paraffin and and turn over the jelly the 
day after making. Margins of glass above 
paraffin should be sterilized with hot water 
and tartaric acid to prevent mould. 

To preserve fruits that will easily crush, 
like berries and plums, it is best to pour over 
them a boiling hot syrup, stand overnight, 
drain off the syrup, and repeat till fruit is 
cooked by the hot liquid. Half a cup of water 
to two cups of sugar is a good syrup. 

Marmalade general rule. After cooking, 
drain the fruit, and rub the pulp through a 
sieve; add equal weight of sugar and boil half 
an hour, stirring often to keep from burning. 

Jelly general rule. Cover the fruit with 
cold water, boil till tender, then drain in a 
110 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

jelly bag overnight. Do not squeeze if you wish 
clear jelly. Boil the juice twenty minutes, add 
its equivalent in sugar (that is, bowl to bowl), 
and cook five minutes longer. 

Canning fruit without cooking. Make a 
syrup and boil five minutes, allowing one cup 
of sugar and one cup of water to each jar. 
Pare the fruit and pack whole in the jar, in 
each jar put one tablespoon of pure alcohol or 
brandy and pour in the hot syrup till brimful 
and seal. 

Rhubarb without cooking. Cut the rhubarb 
in inch pieces, put in glass jars, fill with cold 
water, and stand till next day; then pour off 
and fill again with fresh water. Have the 
jars full to overflowing, then cover and seal. 
This can be done under water in a deep pan 
of cold water, and when jars are full of the 
cold water, fasten on the cover under the 
water. Rhubarb is the first thing that comes 
to preserve, and is in season as early as April, 
but in abundance by May. 

Strawberry jam. (Make in June.) Wash the 
berries, pick over, stem, and mash, allowing 
a cup of water to a pint of fruit. Put in a 
111 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

kettle, boil slowly thirty minutes, stirring 
almost constantly. Add the sugar, two cups 
to a pint, and boil again twenty minutes. 

Blackberry jam. (Make in June and July.) 
Mash the berries, cook without water, press 
through a coarse sieve, and, as blackberries 
are sweet, allow only one cup of sugar to one 
pint of juice. Boil half an hour, then test. 

Currant jelly red, black, or white. (Make 
early in July.) First among the small fruits 
are currants. Currants should not be overripe, 
or gathered after a rain. Pick over and wash, 
but do not stem. Put in a preserving kettle 
with water enough to cover; cook till soft; 
then drain all night in a jelly bag. Measure 
the juice, put into the kettle, cooking not 
more than six cups at a time; boil exactly 
eleven minutes; add six cups of sugar, and stir 
till the sugar is dissolved. Pour into glasses; 
if not firm, stand in the sun or the oven to 
harden. Currants, being rich in pectose, re- 
quire less cooking than other fruits. A little 
gelatine dissolved in warm water, and added 
to the sugar and juice while cold, is recom- 
mended highly to insure a hard jelly that will 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

cut. A teaspoonf ul of cream of tartar (tartaric 
acid) to a quart promotes jellying. 

Gooseberry jam. (Make in July and August .) 
Make in the same way as strawberry jam 
above, but cook berries longer before sugar is 
added, as the berries are hard and cannot be 
mashed till they are well cooked. 

Beach-plum jelly. (Make in August.) Cover 
with water, cook till tender, strain through a 
jelly bag, letting it drip all night. Allow a pint 
of sugar to a pint of juice; boil till it begins to 
set when tested. 

Peach preserve.. (Make in August and Sep- 
tember.) Peel with a silver knife, or plunge 
into hot water first and after in cold to pre- 
vent discoloring. For three pounds of fruit 
use its equivalent in sugar and one pint of 
water. When the syrup is hot, drop in the 
fruit (either whole with the pits or cut in 
halves), a few peaches at a time, as they 
cook through very quickly; remove into jars 
when done, and before filling jars with hot 
syrup add either a tablespoonful of brandy or 
good vinegar to each jar. 

Crab-apple jelly. (Make in September and 
113 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

October.) This is one of the easiest jellies to 
make, using the general rule. 

Green-grape jelly. (Make in September and 
October.) Gather grapes just as they are 
turning; pick over, stem, put in kettle with 
one cup of water, and cook slowly for half an 
hour. Strain through a jelly bag; measure 
and allow one and a half cups of sugar to two 
cups of juice. Boil rapidly twenty minutes, 
add the heated sugar, stir till dissolved, then 
boil briskly for three minutes. Pour into tum- 
blers and stand two days; then cover. 

Green-apple jelly. Wash and core, but do 
not peel, any green apples. Cover with water 
and cook till soft, then drip in a jelly bag all 
night. Add as much sugar as juice, and boil 
fifteen minutes. A bunch of elderberries will 
make the jelly red and will not injure the 
flavor. 

Apple jelly of any kind of apples may be 
made more delicious by flavoring with rose- 
geranium leaves, as our grandmothers did 
their apple pies. 

Apple ginger. Four pounds each of apple 
and sugar; make a syrup of the sugar by add- 
114 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

ing one pint of water. Chop apples fine with 
one ounce of green ginger, or use white ginger 
root. Put into the syrup with the grated rind 
of four lemons. Boil slowly two hours or till 
clear. 

Quaker apple sauce, or cider apple sauce. 
Boil a kettle of sweet cider till it is reduced 
two thirds ; add half as much molasses as the 
reduced cider, and put into this as many 
pared, cored, and quartered apples as the 
liquid will cover; cook slowly till of a thick 
brown color and all mushy. 

Green-grape jam. Jam is made of green 
grapes by rubbing through a colander, and 
then a sieve, instead of straining. Add the 
sugar, boil fifteen minutes, and stir all the 
time to keep from burning. 

Grape jelly is made like green-grape jelly; 
it is firmer and better if a few green grapes are 
mixed with the ripe ones. 

Orange marmalade (1) . (Can be made in any 
season.) Pare the oranges and soak the peel 
in salted water forty-eight hours, one table- 
spoonful of salt to a quart of water. Then 
boil in fresh water, changing it once, until the 
115 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

peel is tender. With a spoon remove the white 
inside of the peel and throw it away. Cut the 
rind in narrow strips, cut the oranges fine 
(removing the seeds), and mix with the rind; 
add one cup of the sugar to one cup of the 
mixture, boil thirty or forty minutes, and 
then pour into glasses. 

Orange marmalade (2). Six oranges sliced 
thin and two lemons. To each cup of fruit 
add three scant cups of cold water, and let it 
stand forty-eight hours; then boil till the rind 
is tender. Drain juice from rind, and to every 
cup of juice add one and a half cups of sugar; 
boil juice and sugar until it nearly jellies; add 
rind and boil until it jellies. 

Amber jelly. Grind coarsely one grapefruit, 
one orange, and one lemon, removing only 
the seeds and tough centres; stand all night in 
an earthen bowl with three times its quantity 
of water. Next day boil ten minutes, stand 
one more night, and the last day add sugar to 
the fruit, bowl for bowl, and cook till it jellies. 

Preserved pear chips (hard pears). Cut eight 
pounds of pears in small thin slices across the 
seeded centres; slice four lemons with peel 
116 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

and two without peel; add five pounds of 
sugar and half a pound of preserved ginger. 
Let it stand in the kettle twenty-four hours; 
then cook slowly till the fruit is transparent 
and retains its shape. This tastes like an East 
Indian preserve. 

Date jam. Put in a porcelain kettle two 
pounds of dates (stoned) and two cups of 
water; when well heated, add two cups of 
granulated sugar, a piece of butter, and a 
little nutmeg. Cook till quite thick, pour into 
tumblers, and cover. The advantage of this 
preserve is that it can be made at almost any 
time of the year. 

Barberries and raisins. Preserve the bar- 
berries in sugar, pound for pound, and add as 
many raisins as desired. Boil the raisins with- 
out sugar in enough water to cover them; add 
the barberries and sugar and cook till done. 

Barberry sauce. To three pounds of sugar 
add one and a half cups of water, bring the 
syrup to a boil, add two quarts of barberries, 
and one pound of seeded raisins. Cook slowly 
one hour. 

Watermelon preserve old-fashioned rule. 
117 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

(Watermelons are ripe and ready during the 
summer months, coming from the South as 
early as June.) Cut the hard rind into dice or 
small pieces; stand all night in salted water; 
then drain the next day and cook till tender. 
Cover the melon with boiling water, add one 
lemon sliced, and half as much sugar as melon. 
Cook ten minutes, and it is ready to serve; or 
put away in sealed jars. A good syrup for this 
is one cup of water, two cups or one pound of 
sugar, to one pound of fruit. 

Peach jam. Pare and quarter the peaches; 
cook till tender and mash; allow three quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar and one cup of water 
to each pound of fruit. Cook, stirring con- 
stantly, for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Quinces are the last fruit for the house- 
keeper to preserve; they are not in season till 
October, and are sometimes not in condition 
to use till November. 

Quince marmalade (1). Grate or grind the 
peeled and cored quinces fine; to one cup of 
quince add two of water, and two and a half 
cups of sugar. Boil one hour, stirring often, 
and pour into jelly glasses. 
118 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

Quince marmalade (2). Peel, core, and cut 
the fruit; boil till very tender in water enough 
to cover. Drain and rub the quinces through 
a colander, or mash till smooth. Weigh and 
add the drained juice and sugar, allowing half 
a pound of sugar to one pound of quince. 
Boil till thick and clear. 

Quince preserve (a very old rule). Peel, cut 
in quarters or eighths, and core the quinces; 
cover with cold water and cook slowly till 
almost tender, a part of the fruit at a time; if 
too tender it will get mushy, and the sections 
will lose their shape. Weigh, and for each 
pound of fruit use three quarters of a pound of 
sugar; mix with water the quinces were boiled 
in, add the fruit, and cook slowly till red. 

Quince jelly. Boil the quince parings (not 
the cores), with water enough to cover, for 
one hour; drain, and use a cup of sugar to a 
cup of juice. When the juice boils, add the 
sugar and boil twenty minutes; then pour into 
hot jelly tumblers. 

Tomato figs (a very old rule). Wash, cut in 
halves, and stem (but do not peel) green to- 
matoes. Add to them, in the kettle, molasses 
119 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

till it can be seen, and sliced unpeeled lemon, 
allowing one lemon to two quarts of tomatoes. 
Cook slowly until the tomatoes are easily 
pierced. 

Grape conserve. Take seven pounds of 
grapes, four pounds of sugar, three pounds 
of raisins, two pounds of English walnuts. 
Pulp the grapes and cook till tender; put 
through a sieve to remove the seeds; then 
add to this a cup of water, the cooked skins, 
the sugar, and whole seeded raisins, and the 
walnuts chopped coarsely. Boil two hours 
very slowly. If the rule is too large, half of it 
can be made. It is delicious for sandwiches, 
or to eat with cold meats, and will keep two 
years. 

Rhubarb conserve. Take seven pounds of 
rhubarb, cut in inch pieces, six pounds of 
sugar, grated rind and juice of one lemon or 
sour orange, one pound of figs cut in pieces. 
Boil together slowly one hour, or till thick 
like marmalade. 

Currant conserve. Three quarts of currants, 
three oranges, three pounds of sugar, one 
pound of raisins. Squeeze the juice of the 
120 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

oranges, cut the skin of one orange in very 
small pieces or shreds, and cook a while in 
water; then put all ingredients together and 
cook till it jellies. 

PICKLING 

A granite or porcelain kettle and the best 
cider vinegar should always be used in pick- 
ling. If the vinegar is too acid, dilute it with 
clear water. Use a wooden spoon to stir. For 
catsup the fruits and vegetables should be 
very ripe; it should be poured hot into the 
sterilized bottles and sealed while hot, always 
using new corks and new rubber rings. 

Plum and grape catsup. Wash the grapes or 
plums and cook till tender, strain through a 
sieve, and to five pounds of pulp add three 
pounds of sugar and half a teaspoonful of all 
the spices. Mix well and bottle. 

Tomato catsup (uncooked). Sprinkle one 
third of a cup of salt over half a peck of ripe, 
peeled tomatoes and one cup of ground onions; 
stand overnight, then drain well, and add one 
cupful of celery cut fine, three red peppers 
coarsely ground; to this add three pints of 
121 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

vinegar, one cup of sugar, a quarter of a 
pound of mustard seed, and a teaspoonful of 
all the spices. 

Tomato catsup (cooked). Boil three hours, 
or till thick, one and a half pecks of tomatoes, 
two cups of vinegar, one cup of brown sugar, 
three tablespoons of salt, one level teaspoon 
of mustard, and one quarter teaspoon of cay- 
enne pepper. 

Spiced fruit. Nothing makes a more deli- 
cious relish for meats, hot or cold, than spiced 
fruit of all kinds. 

Spiced currants. Boil for two hours five 
pounds of currants (which have been picked 
over and stemmed), four pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, one tablespoon each of clove, 
cinnamon, and allspice. 

Spiced grapes (a favorite). Five pounds of 
grapes, four pounds of sugar, one pint of vine- 
gar, one tablespoonful of cloves and allspice. 
Separate skins and pulp, boil the skins ten 
minutes in the vinegar; add pulp with seeds 
sifted out and sugar; boil one hour, adding 
spices fifteen minutes before it is done. 

Green tomato pickle (good to eat in three 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

days) . Slice one gallon of green tomatoes and 
four onions, salt in layers, and stand over- 
night; in the morning drain well. Mix well 
together and tie in a bag the following spices : 
one teaspoon each of black pepper and all- 
spice, two teaspoons each of cloves and mus- 
tard or the seeds; pour over this three pints of 
boiling vinegar, add the tomatoes and onions, 
six green peppers cut fine, and half a pint of 
horseradish. 

Ripe tomato pickle (uncooked; must stand a 
week before using; will keep). Mix together 
three pints of ripe tomatoes peeled and 
chopped, one cup of chopped celery, four 
tablespoonfuls each of chopped red peppers 
and chopped onion. 

Pickled onions. Skin onions and put in a 
salt brine for twenty-four hours, one and one 
half cups of salt to two quarts of boiling 
water. Remove from brine, boil in clear 
water four or five minutes, or till tender, being 
careful not to boil too much. Pour the pickle 
boiling hot over the onions. For three pints 
of onions use one and one half pints of vine- 
gar, one and one quarter cups of salt, two 
123 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

small red peppers cut fine, and "two thirds 
tablespoon of mustard seed. 

Sweet pickle. A good general rule is seven 
pounds of fruit, three and a half pounds of 
sugar, one quart of vinegar, and spices to 
taste. 

Cucumber sweet pickle. Pare, seed, and cut 
in long strips ripe cucumbers. Stand all night 
with salt between the layers. Drain well the 
next day and cook till tender in vinegar 
enough to cover, removing each piece as soon 
as it is done so as to keep the. pieces whole. 
Tie in a bag whole cloves, allspice, and stick 
cinnamon, and heat, together with vinegar and 
sugar, one and a half pounds of brown sugar 
to one quart of vinegar. When hot add the 
cucumbers, but do not cook them any more. 

Watermelon rind or ripe cucumber sweet 
pickle. Eight pounds of fruit, four pounds of 
sugar, one quart of vinegar, one cup of mixed 
whole spices stick cinnamon, cassia buds, 
allspice, and cloves. Pare the green from the 
rind and cut into strips three or four inches 
long. Boil one ounce of alum in one gallon of 
water; pour this over the rind and let it stand 
124 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

on back of stove several hours; then take out 
into cold water, and when chilled boil one 
half hour in the pickle, and can or put in a 
stone jar. The spices are always best when 
put into cheese-cloth bags. 

The above rule (omitting the alum which is 
needed to harden the watermelon rind and 
cucumbers) may be used for any sweet pickle, 
such as pears and peaches. 

Dutch salad. One quart of green tomatoes, 
one quart of onions, nine small red peppers, or 
six big ones ; one small cabbage, one cauli- 
flower (picked into bits). Cut the vegetables 
fine and stand overnight with one half cup of 
salt. Cook till tender in juices that have col- 
lected during the night, then add ten table- 
spoons of mustard, one cup of flour, two cups 
of sugar, one quart of small pickles sliced, 
five cents worth of tumeric, two quarts of 
vinegar, and cook together about ten min- 
utes. 

Cucumber pickle (1). Pour boiling water 

over the cucumbers, stand till cold, then put 

into one gallon of cold vinegar, to which has 

been added one small cup of salt, two table- 

125 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

spoons each of alum, white mustard, black 
mustard, a handful of horseradish, and spice 
to taste. 

Cucumber pickle (2). Pour boiling water 
over the cucumbers, stand till cold, then 
put in cold vinegar with a little horseradish, 
which keeps the vinegar pure. 

Chili sauce (1). Peel a dozen ripe tomatoes, 
slice two large onions and cut in pieces two 
small red peppers. To this add four cups of 
vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, two cups 
of sugar and spices to taste tied in a bag; boil 
slowly, till thick, about two hours; be careful 
not to burn. (This can be made any time of 
the year by using canned tomatoes.) 

Chili sauce (2) made in the winter. Cook 
two cans of tomatoes slowly one half hour, 
then press through a colander or coarse sieve. 
Chop six small onions fine, put them into 
four cups of vinegar and boil slowly ten min- 
utes; add tomato pulp and cook fifteen min- 
utes more; then add three teaspoons of salt, 
one half teaspoon of cayenne, twelve table- 
spoons of sugar, and cook a little longer to 
right consistency. 

126 



PRESERVING AND PICKLING 

Pickled peppers (red or green). Cut open, 
remove the seeds and cut in strips, put into 
quart jars; add one half cup of sugar, one 
dessert-spoon of salt; fill jar with cold vinegar, 
and cover. These are good to use on winter 
salads. 

Pickled beets. Boil small beets till tender, 
put into jars and pour over them hot boiled 
vinegar; one quart of vinegar to two quarts of 
sugar. 

Pickled cabbage. To one quart of chopped 
raw cabbage add one pint of cooked beets 
chopped fine, one cup of horseradish, one cup 
of sugar, four teaspoons of salt, and a dash of 
pepper. Cover with hot vinegar and stand till 
the cabbage is pickled to suit the taste, 

Piccalilli. Chop fine or grind coarsely one 
peck of green tomatoes, add one cup of salt, 
stand overnight and drain in the morning. 
Then add six red or green peppers and six 
onions ground coarsely, two cups of brown 
sugar, two quarts of vinegar, and (tied in a 
cheese-cloth bag) one tablespoonful each of 
clove and allspice; mustard or celery seed 
may be added, but are not necessary. Cook 
127 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

slowly on the back of the stove for two 
hours. 

Tarragon vinegar (1). The best time to 
make this vinegar is in August, when the plants 
are large and vigorous, using white wine vine- 
gar if possible. Fill a quart fruit jar with vine- 
gar and add three ounces of the fresh tarra- 
gon leaves; close the jar, stand twenty days, 
strain, and it is ready to use. 

Tarragon vinegar (2). Dilute strong cider 
vinegar with a little water; put in a glass jar 
with a handful of dried tarragon leaves; screw 
on the cover and stand in the sun two weeks, 
then strain and bottle. (Powdered tarragon 
or the dried leaves can be bought at a drug 
store.) 



HOME-MADE CANDY 

COOKED candy is the better; but uncooked 
candy, using confectioner's sugar, is much 
easier to make. A clear day is necessary to 
secure the best results. Boiling the syrup is 
the hardest part, and is the secret of all good 
candy-making. Granulated sugar is prefer- 
able for cooked candies; the candy is coarser 
grained if stirred while boiling; butter should 
not be added till the candy is almost done. 
Flavorings and colorings must always be added 
after the candy is taken from the fire. The 
fruit juices strawberry, lemon, orange, and 
pineapple are the best flavorings. Colorings 
may be made from different berries and vege- 
tables. Beets will yield a dark red color; straw- 
berries or cranberries, a delicate pink; spinach, 
a delicate green; a grated carrot or the yolk 
of an egg will furnish yellow. 

COOKED CANDY 

English barley sugar. Put one and a half 
pounds of lump sugar and one pint of water 
129 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

in a porcelain kettle, stand half an hour, boil 
and skim till it becomes hard when tried in 
water. Add the juice of one lemon and boil 
up once, pour into a buttered pan, and when 
cool enough to handle cut into pieces and 
twist or roll them. If desired dust over with 
sugar when cold. 

Butterscotch (I). One half cup of molasses, 
one half cup of sugar, one half cup of butter. 
Boil until it strings. 

Butterscotch (2). Piece of butter the size of 
an egg, one cup of sugar, one half cup of 
water, one tablespoon of molasses, two table- 
spoons of vinegar. Boil till it hardens in cold 
water. 

Butterscotch (3). Two cups of sugar, two 
tablespoons of water, butter the size of an egg. 
Boil without stirring till it hardens on a spoon. 
Pour on buttered plates to cool. 

Peanut candy (1). Put one cup of white 
sugar into a spider and stir constantly. It will 
first turn brown, then lump, then melt into a 
syrup. When in this state, turn in a quart of 
peanuts, chopped fine, and pour at once into 
a buttered pan. 

130 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

Peanut candy (2). Two cups of sugar, one 
half cup of boiling water; stir till dissolved; 
do not stir after it boils, except when it begins 
to bubble. Then stir in very quickly one half 
teaspoon of cream of tartar, dissolved in a 
little cold water. Boil till it turns dark yellow, 
take off the fire, stir in small piece of butter, 
and pour over peanuts chopped fine and ready 
in buttered tin. 

Peanut candy (3). One cup of sugar, one 
half cup of molasses, one half cup of vinegar, 
butter the size of an egg. Cook till done, and 
pour over chopped peanuts. 

Peanut candy (4). Melt one cup of pow- 
dered sugar. When melted, stir in one cup of 
rolled peanuts and turn out on a board. 
Square it off with a chopping-knife. 

Cocoanut drops (1). Boil until brittle four 
cups of white sugar, three fourths cup of 
water, four tablespoons of vinegar, one table- 
spoon of butter. Just before pouring out, 
add one cup of dessicated cocoanut and drop 
in small flat cakes on buttered tins. 

Cocoanut drops (2). Two cups of white 
sugar, one cup of water; boil six minutes over 
131 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

a quick fire. Stir in one half cup of grated 
or dessicated cocoanut and remove from the 
fire. Turn into pan and mark into bars when 
cold. 

Sour-cream candy. One cup of sour cream, 
two cups of brown sugar, small piece of but- 
ter, one cup of chopped walnuts; boil eight 
minutes and stir a long time after taking from 
the fire. 

Chocolate caramels. Two cups of sugar, one 
cup of molasses, one cup of milk, four squares 
of chocolate, butter the size of an egg, one 
teaspoon of vanilla, and a little salt. Boil 
until brittle when tried in water. 

Maple candy. Boil till it threads two cups 
of maple sugar and one cup of cream; then 
add six figs cut fine and one quarter cup of 
grated cocoanut. Beat till it thickens, pour 
into a buttered pan, and cut in squares when 
cold. 

Maple cream walnuts. Melt two cups of 
maple sugar in one cup of water; stir while 
cooking ten minutes; when a little will harden 
when dropped in cold water, add a level tea- 
spoon of butter. Take from the fire; beat till 
132 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

waxy; make into balls; press a nut meat into 
each side of the balls. Lay on a buttered plate 
to become firm. 

Maple caramels. One cup of maple sugar, 
one cup of brown sugar, one cup of water. 
Boil until brittle in water; when nearly done, 
add butter the size of an egg. 

A simple fudge (always good) . Two cups of 
sugar, one half cup of water, three dessert- 
spoons of cocoa. Boil five minutes; then add 
a small piece of butter and a teaspoon of van- 
illa. Cream by beating a few minutes before 
turning into buttered pans. 

Fudge. Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
two squares of chocolate; test in water. Just 
before it is done, add butter the size of a 
walnut (too much butter spoils it) and one 
teaspoon of vanilla; cream and cool. 

Molasses candy (1). One cup of molasses, 
one cup of sugar, one piece of butter the size 
of an egg, one tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil, 
but do not stir, till it hardens in cold water; 
when done stir. Pour into buttered pans and, 
when cool, pull if desired until white. 

Molasses candy (2). Two cups of molasses, 
133 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

one cup of sugar, one cup of sweet cream; add 
a little soda just before taking from stove. 

Creamy molasses candy. One half cup of 
molasses, one cup of sugar, one half cup of 
water, one teaspoonf ul of butter, one half tea- 
spoonful of soda. Stir all together and boil 
till thick; when done it will be creamy. 

Molasses taffy. Cook four cups of molasses 
over a slow fire and test by dropping a little 
in ice-water. If it cools so that it will crack 
between the fingers, it is ready to pour into 
buttered pans in very thin layers. Mark off 
into squares as it cools, and when cold break 
apart. 

Peanut brittle. Spread a thin layer of 
chopped or ground peanuts on a buttered tin. 
Put four cups of granulated sugar in a dry 
saucepan without a drop of water. Stir the 
sugar; in a few minutes over a hot fire it will 
form into hard lumps; but keep on stirring. 
After it has grown quite dark, and you are 
sure it is spoiled, continue to stir and the 
lumps will all melt. At this point instantly 
pour it over the peanuts as quickly as possi- 
ble, and when cool it will be pure and crisp. 
134 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

The above rule may be used for any nuts, 
also for puffed rice. 

Baked peanut candy (1). Take one cup of 
chopped nuts, preferably peanuts, the stiffly 
beaten white of one egg, and one cup of 
brown sugar. Mix well, put in a buttered 
pan, and bake until a light brown, about 
twenty minutes. Be careful not to let it 
brown on the bottom. 

Baked peanut candy (2). Melt one table- 
spoon of butter, add one cup of sugar; when 
dissolved, add one pint of ground peanuts 
and bake fifteen minutes in well-buttered tin. 

Honey candy. Two cups of granulated 
sugar, one half cup of water, four tablespoons 
of honey. Boil until it becomes brittle in 
water. 

Opera creams. Two cups of sugar, two 
squares of chocolate, three fourths cup of 
milk. Boil three or four minutes, flavor, and 
put in a cold place. The pan should not be 
touched for at least an hour, or until it is 
absolutely cold; then beat till creamy and 
drop into balls on paper. 

Cream squares. Two cups of sugar, one cup 
135 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

of milk, one tablespoonful of water, butter the 
size of an egg, a scant teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Cook, cream by beating, pour into a platter, 
and cut into squares. 

To vary : Divide into three parts ; cook the 
second part more slowly than the first, and 
the third part more slowly than the second; 
into one, put chopped raisins, nuts, citron, 
and currants, into the second, cocoanut, and 
into the third, chocolate enough to make it 
the proper color. Pour one layer over the 
other as it cools. 

Pralines. Boil together one and seven 
eighths cups of powdered sugar, one half cup 
of milk or cream, one cup of maple syrup, 
until when tried in cold water it will form 
a soft ball. Remove from fire, beat until 
creamy, add two cups of chopped nuts of any 
kind, and drop from tip of spoon on buttered 
paper. 

Cream peppermints. One cup of white sugar, 
one eighth cup of milk and water mixed, one 
teaspoon of extract of peppermint, one small 
pinch of cream of tartar, one teaspoon of but- 
ter. Boil sugar, milk, water, and butter for 
136 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

five minutes; then add cream of tartar and 
flavoring. When done, cream by stirring for 
about ten minutes, then drop on buttered 
paper. 

Peppermints. Put one half cup of boiling 
water and one and one half cups of fine gran- 
ulated sugar in a saucepan. Stir till the sugar 
is dissolved, bring to a boiling point, and sim- 
mer nine minutes. Beat till the mixture be- 
gins to thicken, and add six drops of oil of pep- 
permint. Drop from tip of spoon on buttered 
paper; if the mixture becomes too stiff to 
drop, add a small quantity of boiling water. 

Checkermints. Make same as peppermints, 
adding oil of wintergreen instead of pepper- 
mint, and coloring pink with the juice of cran- 
berries, or with red fruit. 

Puffed rice brittle. Boil for five minutes one 
cup of sugar, one half cup of water, one tea- 
spoon of vinegar; then add two tablespoon- 
fuls of molasses, butter the size of a walnut, 
and boil till it hardens in cold water. Stir in 
one half package of puffed rice warm and 
crisp from the oven, and spread in a buttered 
tin to cool. 

137 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Butter taffy. One cup of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one half cup of butter; boil till it 
will harden in cold water. 

Marshmallow candy. Boil, without stirring 
till when tried it forms a soft ball, three cups 
of light-brown sugar and one half cup of 
milk. Beat in when done one half pound of 
marshmallows and one cup of chopped nut 
meats. 

French creams. Bring slowly to a boil, and 
cook for five minutes, two cups of granulated 
sugar and one half cupful of milk. Beat till 
it creams, shape into balls with the hands, and 
place walnuts on the tops. A variety can be 
made by using dates, figs, or preserved ginger. 

This mixture is also used for chocolate 
creams, making the balls and then coating 
with chocolate which has been melted by 
placing over hot water. Place on buttered 
paper till cold. 

To sugar pop-corn. Boil till ready one cup 
of white sugar, three tablespoonfuls of water, 
and one tablespoonful of butter; then throw 
in three quarts of corn well popped and picked 
over, and stir well. Set away from the fire, stir 
138 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

till cooled a little do not have too hot a 
fire. 

Pop-corn balls (old-fashioned). Boil one 
quarter of a cupful of molasses with a table- 
spoonful of sugar until it hardens in water; 
remove from the fire before it turns brittle 
and pour it over two quarts of corn that has 
been well popped and picked over carefully. 
Mix well with the hands and make into balls 
the size of lemons. 

Caramel pop-corn. Have ready a pan of 
pop-corn from which all the hard kernels are 
removed. Boil together one half cup of milk, 
one cup of granulated sugar, and three squares 
of chocolate; when nearly done add butter the 
size of an egg. Cook till it hardens in water. 
Add one teaspoonful of vanilla after taking 
from the stove. Pour while hot over the pop- 
corn, stirring with a spoon until it is well 
coated, then pour into buttered pans to cool. 

Fruit candy. Two cups of sugar, one half 
cup of water, one teaspoon of cream of tartar. 
When nearly done add butter the size of a 
walnut and boil till it becomes brittle in cold 
water. Pour the mixture into a buttered pan 
139 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

which has been covered with dates, figs, or 
English walnuts, all cut very fine. 

Horehound candy (1). Steep one ounce of 
dried horehound in one and a half cups of 
water; strain and add three cups of granu- 
lated sugar, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. 
Boil till it hardens in water, then cool and cut 
into squares. 

Horehound candy (2). Boil slowly two 
ounces of dry horehound in one and a half 
pints of water for an hour; strain and add 
three and a half pounds of brown sugar. Boil 
till it hardens in water, then pour on a flat 
buttered tin and mark into squares when 
partly cool. 

Crystallized mint. Boil together a pound of 
granulated sugar and half a cup of water, 
until it is brittle when dropped into water; 
add the juice of half a lemon, take from the 
fire, and stand in a vessel of very hot water. 
Have the sprigs of mint ready, dip one at a 
time quickly in the syrup, then spread on 
waxed paper to dry. 

Frosted fruit. To frost fruit, beat the white 
of one egg to a froth with a very little cold 
140 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

water; dip in this a small bunch of grapes 
(white grapes are prettiest), and then in pow- 
dered sugar. Lay on waxed paper to dry. 

Candied fruit. Boil two cups of sugar and 
two thirds of a cup of water till it threads or 
hardens in water; then dip in white grapes, or 
sections of oranges, and put on waxed paper 
to harden. 

To glace fruit. Make a syrup as for crys- 
tallized mint; dip in fruit pieces, one at a 
time, using a pickle or olive fork; lay on waxed 
paper. Use figs, dates, French prunes, and 
sections of oranges, especially the tiny sweet 
mandarin or tangerine oranges. 

Orange and grapefruit rind (candied). Cut 
the peel with scissors into strips; the orange 
may be made fine, but the grapefruit is better 
quite half an inch wide. Put into a big earthen 
bowl and cover well with water, allowing one 
large spoonful of salt to each quart of water. 
This salt bath takes the bitter out of the peel. 
One may be several days or a week collect- 
ing the rind, and if the brine looks bad, make 
it new and fresh. Boil the rind slowly till very 
tender, possibly five or six hours, changing 
141 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

the water three or four times, and always 
putting in cold water. If necessary, let it 
stand overnight, but change the water before 
doing so, and add cold water while cooking to 
keep the rind covered. When very tender, 
drain, and add equal weight of sugar, allow- 
ing a cup of water to each pound of fruit. Cook 
for an hour covered, then remove the cover 
and cook till the syrup is nearly boiled away. 
Drain in sieve and colander, roll in sugar. 
(Granulated sugar is better than confectioner's 
sugar.) Care should be taken in handling not 
to break or shorten the rinds. Do not use a 
spoon, but give the kettle an occasional twist 
to prevent sticking. Put away in glass, else 
it will dry too quickly. 

UNCOOKED CANDY 

Turkish figs. Chop together very fine, one 
pound each of figs, dates, and walnuts. Then 
knead in as much confectioner's sugar as 
possible, anywhere from two to three cups. 
Roll out one fourth of an inch in thickness, 
cut with a small round cutter, and dip each 
in the confectioner's sugar. 
142 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

Orange drops. Grate the rind of one orange 
and squeeze the juice; add a pinch of cream 
of tartar. Stir this with enough confectioner's 
sugar to mould easily into balls. 

Cream dates. Remove stone from fresh 
California dates; fill the centres with French 
candy made as follows: white of one egg, 
equal quantity of lemon or orange juice, or 
water. Mix well and stir in confectioner's 
sugar till stiff enough to shape into balls. 

Providence. Use equal quantities of figs, 
stoned dates, and English walnuts. Grind to- 
gether fine in the meat-chopper, roll in a 
mass on a board dusted thick with confec- 
tioner's sugar. Cut into rounds and pack in 
boxes ready for use. To keep well, it should 
be about a quarter of an inch thick. 

Various sorts of mints. Mix confectioner's 
sugar with the white of one egg till the mix- 
ture can be rolled. Flavor a portion with 
lemon, and tint yellow; flavor some with win- 
tergreen, and color a delicate pink; make the 
third portion green, and flavor with vanilla 
and almond, using more vanilla than almond. 

Fruit paste. One pound each of figs, dates, 
143 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

and cherries, one half pound of nut meats, 
two cups of seeded raisins; put all through a 
chopper, turn on a board, and knead well with 
confectioner's sugar till you can roll it out 
one half an inch thick. Cut into pieces and 
roll in granulated sugar. 

French cream candy. To the white of one 
egg add one tablespoon of cold water; beat in 
confectioner's sugar till no more can be added, 
nearly a pound will be required. Make 
balls, and press half a nut meat on one or both 
sides, or fill stoned dates and roll the dates 
in granulated sugar. Chopped nuts may be 
added to the paste, also seeded raisins, and 
then small balls made and rolled in sugar. 

Walnut cream. Stir together one and a half 
cups of confectioner's sugar, the white of one 
egg, and an equal quantity of water until stiff 
enough to mould. Put a little ball of cream on 
half a walnut, place the other half on the 
other side, and roll in sugar. 

CHAFING-DISH CANDIES 

Chocolate marshmallow fudge. Stir together 
two cups of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of 
144 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

cocoa or chocolate, and add one teaspoon of 
butter. When it boils, put in ten cents' worth 
of marshmallows, but do not stir. Boil five 
minutes. When done add one half cup of 
chopped English walnuts; beat well, pour into 
buttered pans; when cool cut into squares. 

Vanilla caramels. Put into blazer two cups 
of sugar, a cup of cream, and two generous 
tablespoonfuls of butter. Stir constantly, to 
prevent scorching, until a little of the boiling 
liquid will turn to a firm paste if dropped in 
ice-water. Remove from fire, stir in two tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla extract, and beat hard for 
several minutes before turning into buttered 
tins to cool. Mark off into squares. 

Pecan candy. Boil one and a half cupfuls of 
coffee-crushed sugar in half a cupful of milk 
for ten minutes. Add a tablespoonful of 
butter, a cupful of chopped pecan nuts, and a 
little vanilla. This makes also a good cake 
frosting with the nuts sprinkled on top. 

Walnut candy. Boil about ten minutes, in 

the chafing-dish, one pound of brown sugar, 

one half a cup of milk, and a small piece of 

butter, stirring all the time. Remove from 

145 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

the fire; add vanilla and half a cup of chopped 
walnut meats ; pour into a buttered pan, and 
before it is quite hard, cut into squares. 

Fudge. Two cups of granulated sugar and 
two squares of Baker's chocolate, one half 
cup of milk, one teaspoonful of vanilla, butter 
the size of a walnut. Boil nine minutes, re- 
move from the heat, and cream by beating 
it; or to vary it, pour it over half a pound of 
marshmallows cut into pieces. 

Peanut candy. Cover a buttered pan with 
one and a half cups of chopped peanuts. Melt 
in the chafing-dish one and a half cups of 
sugar and pour over the nuts. Cool and mark 
into bars. 

Nut candy. Boil together three cups of 
brown sugar and one cupful of cream or milk 
till it becomes a soft ball in cold water; just 
before removing from the fire add a small 
piece of butter, a teaspoonful of vanilla, and 
one cup of chopped or ground nuts. When 
cooling, stir or beat till it hardens, put in a 
buttered pan, and cut into squares. 

Taffy. Boil together one and a half cups of 
light-brown sugar, half a cup of molasses, a 
146 



HOME-MADE CANDIES 

tablespoonful each of vinegar and hot water, 
and a little salt. Cook till brittle if dropped 
into cold water; just before it is done, add 
butter as large as an egg, and when taken 
from the fire add one teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Pour into a buttered pan, and when half cool 
cut into squares. 

Nicest candy I ever ate. Three cups of brown 
sugar, one cup of milk, butter the size of an 
egg. Boil until it begins to harden in water, 
then add one cup of chopped walnuts. Beat 
till quite creamy, then pour into pans. 



HINTS TO THE COOK 

Care of the stove. Before polishing the stove, 
wash it with vinegar. This removes all grease, 
leaving the surface smooth, and keeps the 
blacking from burning off so quickly, saving 
much time and labor. A little sugar added 
to the blacking is a good thing to try. 

To clean the nickel on stoves and ranges. 
Take a woolen cloth, wipe the soot from the 
bottom of the tea-kettle, and with this rub 
the nickel. If there is grease or other dirt, 
first remove this with a damp cloth rubbed 
well with soap. 

Zinc is best cleaned with hot soapy water, 
then polished with kerosene and coal ashes. 

Heat in the oven. Always keep the stove 
clear from ashes and dust in every part, or 
the oven will be cold, no matter how good the 
draft, or how much coal is used. 

A hotter oven is required for bread, rolls, 
and sponge cake, when mixed with water, 
than when milk is used. 
148 



HINTS TO THE COOK 

When cake rises in a point and cracks open, 
the oven is too hot. 

A cup of water placed in the bottom of the 
oven will prevent things from burning. 

Perforated covers for the frying-pan will pre- 
vent the grease from spattering on the stove. 
The holes allow the steam to escape and do 
not prevent the food from browning. Any lid 
that will fit the frying-pan may easily be per- 
forated at home, with a nail, or any sharp tool, 
and a hammer. 

To keep things from boiling over. If the edge 
of the saucepan is well buttered, cocoa, choco- 
late, candy, or anything of the kind will not 
boil over. 

Salt in a double boiler. The contents of the 
inner vessel of a double boiler will cook much 
more rapidly if the water in the outer com- 
partment is salted in the proportion of half a 
cup of salt to two quarts of water. 

Salt sprinkled on any substance burning on 
the stove will stop the smell. 

Boiling meat. When boiling meat of any 
kind, add a tablespoonful of vinegar to the 
water when first put over the fire. This 
149 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

makes the meat tender, without leaving any 
flavor of the vinegar. 

To soften tough meat. Brush over with oil 
(or butter) and vinegar, using one part of 
vinegar to two parts of oil or butter, and let 
stand for a few hours. This is often done in 
tropical countries. A little vinegar served in 
the platter with the steak adds to the flavor 
of the meat. 

A tablespoonful of vinegar added to the 
water in which fish is boiled has a tendency to 
whiten the meat, and to render it firmer. 

When poaching eggs, if a teaspoonful of 
vinegar is added to the boiling water, it will 
prevent the whites from spreading. 

When cooking cabbage or turnips, place a 
small dish of vinegar on the back of the stove 
and it will destroy the odor. 

A number of dishes that are usually fried can 
be baked quite as well. Sausages cooked in 
this way are very delicious and much more 
digestible. 

When frying anything to be rolled in meal, 
use half flour and it will be found to brown 
better. 

150 



HINTS TO THE COOK 

To improve griddle cakes. A teaspoonful of 
brown sugar or molasses added to the griddle 
cake batter makes it brown better and more 
easily. 

Baking apples. When baking apples, prick 
the skin with a fork, and they will cook with- 
out bursting. 

Measuring butter. A tablespoonful of 
melted butter is measured after melting. A 
tablespoonful of butter melted is measured be- 
fore melting. 

Rub sweet butter over the top of bread after 
taking from the oven, and wrap in a bread 
towel, to make a rich and soft crust. 

Salt will curdle milk ; therefore in preparing 
milk toast, sauce, scrambled eggs, or anything 
with a milk foundation, do not add salt till it 
is taken from the fire. 

Soft custard. When making soft custard, if 
the custard curdles when it is done, set in a 
pan of ice water and beat with a Dover beater, 
and the custard will become smooth and 
creamy. 

Milk will keep sweet longer in a shallow pan 
than in a pitcher. 

151 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Beating eggs. To beat the whites of eggs 
quickly, add a pinch of salt. 

When an egg is beaten for fish or croquettes, 
add one tablespoonful of water, and it goes 
further. 

Vegetables. Old potatoes, or any vegetables 
(when not new) are improved by soaking in 
cold water for several hours after paring. 

Celery should be allowed to lie in cold water, 
to which a little salt has been added, for an 
hour before it is required for the table. This 
will make it very crisp. 

Coffee. To make a cup of coffee more nour- 
ishing, stir into it an egg well beaten. First 
beat the egg in the cup, then add a little cream, 
and then sugar, and lastly pour the coffee in 
very gradually. When adding the coffee, beat 
with a spoon or small egg-beater. 

To sterilize milk, place the bottle or can of 
milk in water over a fire and when the milk is 
heated to 180 F. or a little more (not by any 
means to the boiling point), continue such 
heat for half an hour. 

To peel tomatoes without scalding, scrape 
carefully over the surface with the back of a 
152 



HINTS TO THE COOK 

knife, or the edge of a very dull knife; after 
this the tomatoes will peel easily. 

Lard used for frying cakes or croquettes can 
be clarified and used again by heating thor- 
oughly with several slices of raw potatoes and 
then strained. It can even be clarified after 
cooking fish and made as good as new. 

For cleaning kettles, cereal dishes, etc., use 
the rectangular cover of the cocoa tin. It is 
better than a ring dish-cloth or a chain dish- 
cleaner. 

When food burns, quickly seize the kettle or 
pan from the range, and set into a larger pan 
containing cold water. This will cause the 
steam to escape from the outside, instead of 
passing upward through the food. Remove 
to another vessel and continue cooking ; if care- 
ful not to disturb the burnt part there will be 
no taint or odor to be detected by the most 
critical person. 

Care of a burnt saucepan. Unless absolutely 
necessary, do not scrape a burnt saucepan, but 
fill with cold water in which a little washing- 
soda has been put, and let it boil slowly on the 
back of the stove until the water is almost 
153 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

boiled away. Refill and boil again, then clean 
with a good stiff scrubbing-brush. Often 
wood ashes will hasten the work. 

The best way to clean the inside of old pots 
and pans is to fill them with water in which a 
few ounces of washing-soda is dissolved, and 
set them on the fire. Let the water boil until 
the inside of the pot looks clean. 

To brighten copperware. Crushed borax 
spread thickly on a flannel cloth, wet with 
hot water, and well soaped will brighten the 
copper like magic. 

A pinch of baking-powder is an excellent 
substitute for soap when washing glasses. It 
gives the dainty polish sought by all good 
housewives. 

To clean out sink drain. Should the sink 
drain chance to get choked, pour in one fourth 
of a pound of copperas dissolved in two parts 
of boiling water. If this is not efficacious, re- 
peat before sending for a plumber. 

Care of fruit jars. When emptying fruit jars, 

wash thoroughly, rinse well, and drain. With 

a salt-shaker, shake salt two or three times 

into the jar, put on cover without rubber and 

154 



HINTS TO THE COOK 

screw on, or fasten tight. Another season, the 
jars will need only rinsing with cold water. 

Canned fruits and meats. Before buying 
tinned fruits and meats, see if the top is flat or 
depressed. If the top has bulged out, the air 
has entered, and fermentation has set in. 

Vinegar should not be kept in a stone jar; 
the acid may affect the glazing and the vine- 
gar become unwholesome. Glass jars are best 
for vinegar. 

When cutting new bread or cake, always put 
the knife in hot water first; you will find it 
facilitates the cutting. 

Coffee sprinkled on raw fish will keep the 
fish odor from scenting the ice-chest. It can 
easily be washed off, and does not discolor the 
fish. 

Substitute for cream (good on fruit) . Beat 
together the whites of two eggs, a level table- 
spoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, and butter the size of a nut. Stir in 
one half cup of cold milk, and beat very hard. 
Put a cup of cold milk over the fire; when 
it boils, draw the dish to a cooler part of 
the range and pour in the egg mixture. 
155 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Simmer till the milk thickens, and, when 
cold, strain. 

Home-made baking-powder. One half a 
pound of cream of tartar, one quarter of a 
pound of best baking-soda, one quarter of a 
pound of cornstarch; mix and sift three or 
four times, and pack into old baking-powder 
tins; use two rounding teaspoonfuls to a cup 
of flour. 

Butter without ice. When the ice fails, try 
one of these methods of keeping the butter: 

(1) Place a large earthenware bowl on the 
kitchen table, and in it place a small bowl up- 
side down. On this inverted bowl put the but- 
ter dish containing sufficient butter for the 
next meal, wrapped in oiled paper. Over this 
spread a clean napkin, covering the small 
bowl and the edges resting on the bottom of 
the large bowl. Then fill the large bowl with 
fresh cold water up to the level of the butter 
plate. Put a heavy towel over the large bowl 
with ends wrapped around it. The butter will 
be firm in two hours. 

(2) When not too soft, place a napkin 
around it, and completely bury it in the flour. 

156 



HINTS TO THE COOK 

The result will be as satisfactory as keeping it 
in an ice-chest. 

(3) To keep butter cold, put it in a covered 
dish; cover with a wet cloth and set in a draft 
of air. 

(4) To keep butter, fill a bowl with cold 
water. Put the butter on a plate, put on top 
of the bowl, then take a piece of muslin or 
cheese-cloth or a napkin and put over the but- 
ter and let both ends drop into the water. 
You can easily get the butter for use, and you 
will find it quite solid and cold. 

MEAT AND VEGETABLES TO BE SERVED 
TOGETHER 

Roast beef. Potatoes prepared in all the 
different ways, baked or browned sweet po- 
tatoes, asparagus, squash, spinach, Brussels 
sprouts, string beans, cauliflower, or lima 
beans. 

Filet of beef. Potatoes, stuffed tomatoes, or 
stuffed peppers, asparagus, or artichokes. 

Beefsteak. Lyonnaise potatoes, baked po- 
tatoes, French fried potatoes, fried potatoes, 
fried tomatoes, asparagus, spinach, or squash. 
157 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Beef a la mode. Potato balls, carrot balls, 
asparagus, or glazed onions. 

Corned beef. Boiled potatoes, cabbage, 
beets, turnips, carrots, beet or tomato salad. 

Roast mutton and lamb. Green peas, string 
beans, cauliflower, spinach, green corn, po- 
tatoes, Brussels sprouts, lima beans. 

Boiled mutton. Boiled potatoes, cauliflower, 
cabbage, white turnips, string beans. 

Lamb and mutton chops. French fried or 
baked potatoes, egg plant, green corn, 
creamed corn, stewed, boiled, or fried to- 
matoes, French peas. 

Roast veal. Mashed potatoes, creamed spin- 
ach, cauliflower au gratin, French peas, Brus- 
sels sprouts, or asparagus. 

Veal cutlets. Creamed, mashed, baked, or 
plain potatoes, wax beans, asparagus, or spin- 
ach. 

Roast pork. Mashed potatoes, mashed 
turnips, apple sauce, creamed corn or beans, 
red cabbage. 

Roast turkey and chicken. Mashed potatoes, 
creamed onions, creamed corn, mashed tur- 
nips, cranberry sauce, Brussels sprouts. 
158 



HINTS TO THE COOK 

Ducks and geese. Plain or mashed potatoes, 
browned sweet potatoes, creamed onions, 
creamed corn, apple sauce, or baked apples. 

Relishes to serve. With fish, meat and game 
serve the following relishes : 

Roast pork and roast goose, apple sauce. 

Roast turkey, cranberry sauce. 

Boiled turkey, oyster sauce. 

Boiled chicken, bread sauce. 

Roast beef, grated horseradish. 

Roast veal, tomato or mushroom sauce. 

Boiled mutton, caper sauce. 

Roast mutton, currant sauce. 

Roast lamb, mint sauce. 

Broiled fresh mackerel, stewed gooseber- 
ries. 

Boiled bluefish, white cream sauce. 

Broiled shad, boiled rice and salad. 

Fresh salmon, green peas with cream sauce. 

TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

4 teaspoons equal 1 tablespoon. 
2 teaspoons equal 1 dessert spoon. 
2 dessert spoons equal 1 tablespoon. 
8 tablespoons (liquid) equal 1 gill. 
159 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

6 tablespoons (dry) equal 1 gill. 

2 gills equal 1 cup. 

2 cups equal 1 pint. 

4 cups (liquid) equal 1 quart. 

4 cups (dry) equal 1 quart. 

2 cups butter equal 1 pound. 

2 cups granulated sugar equal 1 pound. 

2 cups liquid equal 1 pound. 

1 tablespoon butter equals 1 ounce. 

2 tablespoons flour equal 1 ounce. 
2 tablespoons coffee equal 1 ounce. 

2J/ cups powdered sugar equal 1 pound. 

4 saltspoons equal 1 teaspoon. 

2 tablespoons equal butter size of an egg. 

TO MEASURE WITHOUT SCALES 

1 fluid ounce equals 2 tablespoons. 

1 drachm, or 60 drops, equals 1 teaspoon. 

1 rounded tablespoon of granulated sugar, 2 

of flour or powdered sugar, equals 1 ounce. 
1 liquid gill equals 4 fluid ounces. 
1 fluid ounce equals 8 drachms. 
Butter size of a small egg equals 2 ounces. 
9 large or 12 small eggs (without shells) equal 

1 pound. 



A HELPING HAND IN THE LAUNDRY 

Home-made soap. Save every bit of fat 
until, when melted, it fills a five-pound pail. 
Heat to a liquid in the oven. Place a large 
earthen bowl in the sink and put in it one can 
of potash, one quart and a half of cold water, 
one tablespoonful of ammonia, one small 
tablespoonful of borax. Stir this with a long 
stick (or it may burn) till dissolved, then pour 
the warm fat slowly in, stirring occasionally 
till thick. Pour this when well mixed into a 
long pasteboard box, and place in the air and 
sun till hard and white. The rule which al- 
ways comes on a can of potash is a good one, 
but it gains by adding <me cup of ammonia 
and one half a cup of borax. 

German washing-fluid. Dissolve two pounds 
of shaved soap in three gallons of water, add 
one tablespoonful of turpentine, and three 
tablespoonfuls of liquid ammonia. Soak the 
clothes in this three hours and wash without 
boiling. Turpentine loosens the dirt and does 
not injure any fabric. 

161 



HOUSEKEEPER'S tlANDY BOOK 

Soap solution, which is most useful in 
bleaching, is made by shaving a cake of soap 
into a pan, and pouring over it boiling water, 
stirring until the soap is thoroughly dissolved, 
using about one quarter of a cake to a boiler- 
ful of clothes. 

Javelle water. This can be bought at any 
druggist's or department store, but is easily 
made at home. Dissolve half a pound of 
chloride of lime in two quarts of water, pour 
off the top, which will be clear, and add to this 
one quart of liquid soda. This should be kept 
in the dark, corked tightly, and must be used 
only on white goods. 

Liquid soda. Boil one quart of water and 
one pound of sal-soda (washing-soda). Cool 
and put in a labeled bottle. This can be used 
from time to time to whiten clothes, a table- 
spoonful to a tub of clothes. It will clean and 
whiten kitchen towels, and also sweeten the 
sink. 

How to make one gallon of bluing for fifteen 

cents. Buy ten cents' worth of soluble blue in 

any drug store, put in a cup, adding a little 

water, and stir till free from lumps. Then 

162 



HELP IN THE LAUNDRY 

dissolve one teaspoonful of oxalic acid (five 
cents' worth will be enough) in a little hot 
water; when this is dissolved, put in a large 
pan and pour over it four quarts of cold water, 
adding the soluble blue. The oxalic acid will 
keep the bluing from spotting the clothes. 

Home-made bluing. Dissolve one ounce of 
Prussian blue in five quarts of cold water, also 
one half an ounce of oxalic acid in a pint of 
water. When the acid is thoroughly dissolved, 
mix it with the Prussian blue. Strain through 
a piece of muslin into a bottle. This makes an 
excellent bluing, and costs about one tenth of 
that which you buy already made. It also 
renders the clothes very white. 

Bluing easily made. Moisten one package 
of good bluing dye for cotton ; pour on it one 
quart of boiling water; strain and it is ready 
for use. 

Great care should be used in selecting blu- 
ing. Test it first, and if little clusters of tiny 
ironrust spots appear, discard it at once. 

Never let clothes stand in bluing water; it 
will make them streaked. 

Keep the bluing for use in a flannel bag, as 
163 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

the meshes will hold the undissolved particles. 

Blue the water always until a handful shows 
the color. 

Starch. To make starch, dissolve two table- 
spoonfuls of starch in one half cup of cold 
water; pour over this one quart of boiling 
water, stirring briskly till clear. Scrape into 
this, while hot, wax from a candle's end or a 
little salt, and the starch will never stick. 
Stand on back of stove and cook slowly for 
some time. 

Haw to starch thin waists and muslin dresses. 
Dissolve a tablespoonful of gum arabic in 
about three quarts of water, and dip in this 
the articles to be starched, while wet. Wring 
them out and dry them (in winter, in a place 
where they will not freeze). After drying, 
sprinkle, roll them up, and iron as usual. 

Hints for washing-day. Washing is greatly 
simplified by putting the clothes without 
soaking into a boiler of cold water, using one 
tablespoonful of turpentine and one of am- 
monia to each pail of water. Boil fifteen min- 
utes after they come to a boil, and rinse in 
two clean waters after the suds water. 
164 



HELP IN THE LAUNDRY 

For clothes that have become yellow and 
grimy, make a mixture of clear lime water, and 
turpentine in equal parts. Shake this together 
till creamy; then use a cupful of the mixture 
to every boilerful of clothes. 

Table linen or white clothes that have become 
yellow are best bleached in the month of May. 
Lay the linen or cloth on the grass without 
rinsing out the soap. The sun, the soap, and 
the May dews will make them clear and white. 

Egg shells will soften and whiten clothes if 
used as follows : Wash the egg shells from time 
to time and dry in a basket. For washing-day, 
take a large cupful, crushed fine and tie in a 
cheese-cloth bag. Drop the bag of shells into 
the boiler with the washed clothes. 

A small piece of paraffin in the wash boiler 
will whiten clothes. 

Yellow, dingy lace or muslin curtains are 
most speedily restored to their former purity 
of color if boiled in a strong soapsuds which 
is half milk and half water. Boil half an hour, 
and finish washing them as usual. 

To whiten old muslin, yellow with age, boil in 
strong indigo water. Or dissolve half a tea- 
165 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

spoonful of borax in one pint of hot water. 
When cool, soap the fabrics and wash in the 
borax water. 

How to wash a sweater or any knitted garment. 
Soak for half an hour in lukewarm water and 
Ivory soap which has first been dissolved in 
the water. Do not rub, but squeeze the gar- 
ment without lifting, till it is well saturated 
with the soapy water. Rinse in several warm 
waters (always without lifting) ; hang over the 
line while wet. A shawl will dry in the bottom 
of a basket in the hot sun by shaking it occa- 
sionally. 

Washing blankets. The best and easiest 
way to wash blankets is to soak them for 
one hour, well covered, in lukewarm water 
in which has been dissolved one quarter of a 
pound of borax and a little white soap. (The 
soap may be omitted if the blankets are not 
badly soiled.) Lift from the water, do not 
wring, hang on the line, and hose well with 
cold water on both sides. The blankets will 
get fluffy as the water beats against them. 

Or, take two tablespoonfuls of ammonia, 
one teaspoonful of borax, and half a bar of 
166 



HELP IN THE LAUNDRY 

shaved soap. Boil together with a pint of 
water till the soap is dissolved. Add this to a 
tub of lukewarm water. Soak the blankets in 
this one hour, then souse the blankets up and 
down, and all the dirt will come out. Rinse 
several times in clear water (not cold) or till 
the soap is out; hang in the sun without 
wringing, perfectly straight, for several hours. 
When dry, beat with a rattan beater as you 
would rugs and furniture. This brings up the 
nap and makes them as fluffy as when new. 

Washing flannels. In washing flannels care 
must be taken not to shrink them. Wash on a 
clear day. All the water must be of the same 
temperature; never rub, or use yellow soap; 
dry as quickly as possible. In ironing, do not 
have your iron too hot. 

Before washing new stockings, set the color 
with alum and salt. 

To keep clothes from freezing. In winter, 
add a large handful of salt to the rinse water 
and the clothes will not freeze while hanging 
them out. When ready to go out, wet the 
hands with vinegar, let it dry on, and you 
will have no cold fingers. 
167 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

To prevent fading. Great care should be 
taken in washing delicately tinted shirt- 
waists and summer dresses to prevent fading. 
All colored goods should be first put to soak 
in salt and cold water, for this keeps the color 
from running. Nothing will prevent a gar- 
ment from fading if hung in the sun. Delicate 
colors are safer if dried in the house. 

The popular "shepherd's plaid" should be 
washed in warm water and pure white soap, 
rinsed well in clear water, and hung in the 
shade wrong side out. 

To prevent colors from running. A table- 
spoonful of black pepper stirred into the first 
suds in which cottons are washed will prevent 
running. 

Five cents' worth of sugar-of-lead crystals 
dissolved in a pailful of water makes a solu- 
tion which fixes colors, and establishes the 
tones of pinks, blues, and lavenders. The 
fabrics should remain in the sugar-of-lead 
bath half an hour or so before going into 
the suds to be washed. (This mixture is 
poisonous, and should not be left standing 
about.) 

168 



HELP IN THE LAUNDRY 

Green is a very difficult color to keep in 
wash goods, but by the use of powdered alum 
in the following manner, it may be retained 
till the garment wears out: Before trying to 
remove any of the dirt, plunge the frock into 
a bucket filled with water, to which has been 
added a large piece of alum. Let it soak half 
an hour and then lift it out of the water; do 
not wring, but hang in the shade to drip and 
dry. When well dried, wash in a suds of white 
soap and warm (not hot) water and dry in 
the shade, ironing on the wrong side. 

Alum in the rinse water only will often pre- 
vent green from fading. 

Oxgall is good to use for grays and all 
shades of brown. 

Vinegar will sometimes revive colors: one 
tablespoonful of common vinegar to each 
quart of rinsing water. Saturate well, wring 
tightly, dry quickly. 

To brighten faded colors. To brighten faded 
pink gowns, put one eighth of a yard of Tur- 
key red cheese-cloth in water and boil till the 
color is right; try with a small piece of the 
dress before dipping. Remember it will dry 
169 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

a bit lighter. Blue cheese-cloth used in the 
same way will freshen a light blue dress. 

To bleach faded muslins. To bleach colored 
muslin dresses that have faded, soak over- 
night in a solution of one heaping tablespoon- 
ful of bichloride of lime to a pailful of water. 
Remove the dresses and boil in water pre- 
pared in the same manner. Wash as usual 
and the dresses will have become white. 

How to wash silk garments. Articles made of 
silk must be washed in lukewarm water and 
white soap. Borax and ammonia will make 
pure white silk yellow. 

How to wash a pongee silk. Wash in luke- 
warm water and Ivory soap; do not wring, 
but let it drip dry, hanging the skirt by the 
belt. 

Ironing silk and pongee. Iron rough dry 
silk and pongee with an iron that is not too 
hot. 

Irons. All irons are better for being greased 
once in a while, or washed with soap and 
water; they must always be kept in a dry 
place to prevent rusting. 

Irons will heat more quickly on a gas or 
170 



HELP IN THE LAUNDRY 

alcohol stove if covered with a tin pan to hold 
in the heat. 

When ironing, use a sponge for moistening 
the dry spots on thin articles. 

Sheer dainty dresses may retain their fine 
crispness till very old by dissolving a piece of 
gum arabic as large as a nutmeg and putting 
it in the last rinse water. This is far better 
for muslins and thin fabrics than any starch. 

To iron waists that are trimmed with braid, 
place the braided portion of the garment right 
side down on a Turkish towel. When ironed 
in this manner the result will be most satis- 
factory. A lace or embroidered waist ironed 
in the same manner can be made to look new. 

Stains, and how to remove them. When an 
article is stained, first learn the nature of the 
stain, then the remedy to apply. It is always 
safe to try kerosene first on any stained white 
goods. Cold or tepid water, or milk, never 
fixes a stain. 

Yellow spots are often due to acids; a weak 
solution of ammonia may remove them. Apply 
carefully directly on the spot. 

Running colors. When an article is stained 
171 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

with color from other goods, put the article 
to soak in cold water; the next day wash out 
of this water and dry in the sun. 

Chocolate, tea, and coffee are perhaps the 
most obstinate and frequent stains with which 
the housewife has to contend. When fresh, 
stains of this sort can be removed by soaking 
in cold soft water in which a little borax has 
been dissolved. After soaking a short time, 
pour boiling water over the stain, letting the 
stained part stay in the water for a time. 

// the stain is a bad one and obstinate, get at 
any drug store a small box of salts of lemon. 
Pour boiling water into a bowl, stretch the 
stained piece of goods over this, apply a little 
of the salts of lemon, occasionally drop the 
stain into the hot water. The steam from the 
hot water as well as the water, together with 
the salt, will remove a very bad stain. In 
removing all stains of any kind the stained 
part must always be well rinsed after every 
application. 

Soap sets many stains, so it is always wiser 
to remove the stain when fresh and always 
before washing. 

172 



HELP IN THE LAUNDRY 

Ink stains. While fresh, soak in milk, using 
fresh milk as it becomes discolored. If this 
stain has been allowed to dry, use salts of 
lemon, first wetting the spot, then rubbing 
the salts on and rinsing well in cold water. It 
may be necessary sometimes to repeat the 
process. If the salts of lemon is not strong 
enough to remove the stain, try oxalic acid; 
use it weak, and with great caution, or it will 
eat a hole in the goods. Apply, rubbing and 
dipping in hot water, till the stain disappears, 
but do not let the acid stay on the goods any 
length of time, and be sure to rinse well. 

Saleratus will remove ink stains, when salts 
of lemon, milk (sweet or sour), and oxalic acid 
have failed. 

Smear an ink stain with mutton tallow before 
sending to the wash and it will often come 
away like magic. 

To remove ink from colored materials, dip the 
stained part in warm milk and rub the spot 
lightly under the milk, with the finger. As the 
milk becomes inked, change it, and continue 
until the stain fades away, then rinse and dry 
quickly unless the article is to be washed. 
173 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

To remove ink stains from books use a small 
quantity of diluted oxalic acid applied with 
a camel's-hair pencil and blotted with blot- 
ting paper; this will remove the ink with two 
applications. 

Ink spilled on a carpet may be taken up with- 
out leaving a stain if dry salt be applied im- 
mediately. As the salt becomes discolored, 
brush it off and renew. Continue this till the 
ink has disappeared. 

Printer's ink may be removed from cloth by 
soaking in kerosene oil. 

Fruit stains. When first made rub salt on 
the stain, and afterwards pour boiling water 
over and through the stained part, allowing 
it to stand in the water for a time. In cold 
weather, fruit spots can be removed by hang- 
ing the stained article out of doors overnight. 

If the stain has been fixed by time, soak the 
article in a weak solution of oxalic acid, or 
hold it over the fumes of sulphur. 

Grass stains. (1) Rub lard on the spot and 
then wash in soap and cold water. 

(2) Saturate the spot thoroughly with 
kerosene and then wash as usual. 
174 



HELP IN THE LAUNDRY 

(3) Clear ammonia will remove grass stains 
without leaving a trace, but it must be used 
only on white goods. 

(4) Molasses rubbed well into grass stains 
before washing will often be sufficient to re- 
move them. 

(5) Moisten with pure alcohol, or try rub- 
bing moistened cream of tartar on the stains. 

Paint stains. Turpentine will always re- 
move a fresh paint stain. If old and dried, 
scrape the surface carefully with a knife, 
soften the paint with a little vaseline, and 
then apply the turpentine, which will remove 
paint and vaseline. 

Varnish and paint. If the stain is on a coarse 
fabric, dissolve by saturating in turpentine; 
use alcohol if on a fine fabric. Sponge with 
chloroform if a dark ring is left by the turpen- 
tine. 

A paint-stained dress. If you happen to get 
wet paint on a dress, rub the stain at once 
with another piece of the same material, and 
the stain will disappear. One can use another 
and covered part of the garment as the 
facing or under side of the hem. 
175 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Old paint stains. Equal parts of ammonia 
and turpentine will take paint out of clothing, 
no matter how hard and dry it is. Saturate 
the spot two or three times, and wash out in 
soapsuds. 

Machine-oil stains should be rubbed with 
soap and cold soft water. If the water is not 
soft, soften it with borax. Hot water will 
make the stains permanent. Another remedy 
is to rub the stain well with lard, let it stand 
for several hours, then wash with soap and 
cold water. 

Blood stains. Soak in cold salt water, then 
wash in warm water with plenty of soap, and 
afterward boil; or saturate with kerosene 
oil and let it stand a few minutes, then 
wash. 

Spots on wall paper and window shades. 
Fill a small cheese-cloth bag with corn meal 
and rub carefully the soiled surface as you 
would a plain cloth; sometimes a large grease- 
spot can be removed by the use of a blotting- 
paper and a hot iron ; the heat draws the grease 
into the blotting-paper. Then rub with a 
meal-bag. 

176 



HELP IN THE LAUNDRY 

Iodine stains. Wash with alcohol, rinse or 
wash in soapy water not too hot. 

Scorched stains. Wet the scorched place, 
rub with soap, and bleach in the sun. Often, 
if slightl^ scorched by an overheated iron, 
laying the garment in the sun will cause the 
yellowed place to disappear. 

Bluing spots can be removed from clothes 
by soaking in kerosene, then washing with 
naphtha soap in cold or lukewarm water. 
The same thing will remove wheel grease 
from wash goods. 

Pitch, wheel grease, or tar stains. Soften 
with lard and soak in turpentine. Scrape 
off carefully all surface dirt that will come off, 
then sponge with the turpentine. Rub gently 
till dry and then place in the open air for a 
couple of hours. 

Leather stains on white stockings may be 
removed by applying oxalic acid, diluted in 
water, in the proportion of half an ounce of 
acid to a pint of water. Rinse and repeat 
until the stain is gone. Wash very thoroughly 
afterward, or the acid will leave a mark of its 
own. 

177 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Acid stains, such as vinegar or lemon juice, 
which will very often change the color of a 
colored fabric, may be removed by sponging 
very lightly and carefully with ammonia and 
water, using one tablespoonf ul of ^ammonia 
to four of water. 

Iron rust. (1) To remove iron rust, dampen 
the cloth and rub well with cream of tartar 
on the spots; let it stand an hour, then wash; 
if not removed, repeat the process. 

(2) Use salts of lemon, if not too bad a 
stain; otherwise oxalic acid may be used, but 
with great care. 

(3) Try lemon and powdered alum over 
steam instead of salts of lemon, but rinse in 
cold water immediately. 

Mildew is a stain caused by linen or cotton 
being put away damp. It is a true mould and 
requires warmth and moisture for its growth. 
It is a most difficult stain to remove and re- 
quires time and great patience. Javelle water 
may be tried in cases of advanced growth, 
but success cannot be assured. 

Stretch the stained part over a hard surface 
and rub off as much as will come with a piece 
178 



HELP IN THE LAUNDRY 

of soft dry cloth. Rub in a little salt and try if 
lemon juice will take it out. 

The best way is to wet the stains thor- 
oughly, rub them over with plenty of soap, 
and rub chalk on the place; put the article in 
the sun, and keep it sprinkled with warm 
water. Renew the soap, the chalk, and the 
wetting from time to time, and the stain will 
come out; rinse well in clean cold water. 
Lemon juice and sunshine will often remove 
mildew. 

Handkerchiefs are especially liable to mil- 
dew. Soak them in a very weak solution of 
chloride of lime for several hours; then, rins- 
ing them in plenty of water will take the mil- 
dew from them. 

For strong fabrics, dissolve four table- 
spoonfuls of lime in one half a pint of water, 
and soak fifteen minutes. 

Stains on carpets (soot or oil.). Rub the 
spot with starch, flour, corn meal, salt, or 
fuller's earth. Oil from the street can be 
treated in this way, care being taken to re- 
move with a whisk broom all the particles 
that are on the surface; then try any of these 
179 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

dry remedies, repeating till the stain dis- 
appears. 

To remove stains from mattresses. Place the 
mattress in the sun and cover the spots with 
a thick paste, made by wetting starch, or 
flour, with cold water. After an hour or so, 
rub the paste off, and if not quite clean repeat 
the operation. 

Mud stains. On dark clothes, allow them 
to dry thoroughly before attempting to re- 
move them. Then a brisk brushing will prob- 
ably take all the mud away without leaving 
any traces of the ugly mark that would have 
remained otherwise. If not, rubbing with 
grated raw potato will often take away a bad 
mud stain. 

Stains made by heat on wood may be re- 
moved by rubbing with hot milk. 

Instead of wiping up alcohol when spilled 
on varnished wood neutralize at once with 
oil, for the varnish softens quickly. Restore 
color by rubbing with kerosene or with equal 
parts of oil and turpentine. 



TOILET IDEAS 

Cold cream (simple and inexpensive). Heat 
four ounces of almond oil in the double boiler; 
add one ounce each of spermaceti and white 
wax. When melted, beat till almost cool. 
To this mixture add four ounces of rose- 
water and twenty drops of benzoin (each 
separately, but drop by drop), beating till 
quite cold. 

This may be converted to cucumber cream 
by adding two tablespoonfuls of cucumber 
juice instead of the rosewater and benzoin. 

A harmless cosmetic or cold cream. Heat in a 
double boiler six ounces of oil of sweet almond, 
two ounces of lanolin, one ounce of white 
wax, and one ounce of spermaceti; stir well 
till ingredients are dissolved and mixed. 
Remove from fire, beat with egg-beater till 
cold, and during the beating process add two 
teaspoonfuls of simple tincture of benzoin 
and a drop or two of attar of roses. Put in 
little jars and keep in cool place till cold and 
181 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

firm. It is healing and whitening, and gives 
a soft texture to the skin. 

Buttermilk as a cosmetic. There is nothing 
better for tan, freckles, sunburn, or moth 
spots than fresh buttermilk applied at night 
with a soft cloth or sponge. Wash off in the 
morning, and repeat several nights; one ap- 
plication would have no effect. Buttermilk 
will also keep the hands soft and smooth. 

Oatmeal as a lotion. Pour boiling water on 
a bag of oatmeal, stand a while, press gently, 
pour off the clear liquid, and add bay rum to 
suit. This is excellent for the face and hands. 

Watermelon lotion. The water from the 
watermelon is most soothing to the face, and 
it is claimed that if applied continuously it 
will often remove freckles. 

Cucumber lotion. Mix together and stand 
overnight three tablespoonfuls of cucumber 
juice and three of alcohol; add slowly, the 
next day, one tablespoonful of oil of almonds 
and ten drops of benzoin. This is recom- 
mended for sunburn and freckles. Cucumber 
water is made by cutting up three large cu- 
cumbers, skin and all, and steeping in half a 
182 



TOILET IDEAS 

cup of water over a slow fire till pulp is soft; 
then straining. 

Witch-hazel jelly. Three parts of witch- 
hazel, one part of benzoin, and one of glycer- 
ine, well mixed. 

Cracked and sore lips. Any one whose lips 
are constantly cracked and sore needs a tonic, 
or alterative; for without doubt it indicates 
that the blood is not right. 

When there is a slight eruption on the lips, 
they should be bathed with a weak solution of 
alum water before applying cold cream. 

Spirits of camphor will help cracks or fever 
blisters. By itself it becomes irritating, but 
after the alum solution it is effective applied 
to a raw place; the alum prevents the cam- 
phor from drying the sensitive surrounding 
skin. 

When a cold-sore or fever-blister is fully 
developed, a grain of permanganate of potash 
dissolved in a tablespoonful of rosewater may 
be used. Many times fever-blisters could be 
prevented if grease, in the shape of mutton 
tallow or cold cream, were applied as soon as 
inflammation is felt. 

183 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

To prevent nail-biting. Procure a tube of 
liquid court-plaster. After cleaning the hand 
thoroughly, apply a drop to each finger tip, 
spreading over the top of the nail. Allow this 
to dry a few minutes before using the hands. 
Renew applications each day. Soak previous 
plaster away, and encourage the child by talk- 
ing of the improved appearance of the nails 
and the evil of biting them. 

Home-made toilet water. Use any essence 
desired; oil of lavender or rose, for instance. 
About twenty-five drops will perfume five 
pints of water. Into each one or two half- 
gallon jars put a funnel lined with filter paper, 
with a bunch of cotton at the bottom. On 
top of this cotton put some finely powdered 
magnesia, over which has been poured the 
perfume essence. It should be divided and 
half the quantity put into each jar. Pour 
into each jar some rainwater, or ordinary 
boiled water. This will filter through the cot- 
ton, paper, and magnesia, and make a soft 
toilet water with a delightful fragrance. 

Jasmine toilet water. Home-made jasmine 
water is very refreshing. To make a gallon, 
184 



TOILET IDEAS 

take a quart of spirits of cologne and put it 
into a gallon jug; add half an ounce of the oil 
of jasmine. Let it stand two weeks. Fill with 
the best alcohol, and let it stand two weeks or 
more. 

Lavender water. A delightful toilet water 
is made of white wine vinegar and lavender 
flowers. Steep handfuls of the lavender in the 
vinegar. Keep the jar for three days in a 
warm place on the back of the stove, after 
which strain and bottle. 

Toilet soap. For toilet soap, dissolve one 
can of lye in one quart of water. Try out five 
pounds of mutton tallow until perfectly pure. 
Have the grease as cool as it can be without 
congealing; then pour it, a few drops at a 
time, into the dissolved lye, beating con- 
stantly. Stir into the mixture four ounces of 
glycerine and one half an ounce of oil of ber- 
gamot, or oil of lavender, as preferred. Oil of 
geranium also gives a pleasant perfume. 
When all the ingredients are blended, beat 
in two tablespoonfuls each of powdered borax 
and ammonia. Whip hard. Line a pan with 
paper and pour the soap into it. 
185 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Soap cream. Dissolve a cake of castile soap 
in one quart of boiling water; simmer till like 
thick cream. Remove from the fire, and when 
almost cool, beat into this one half ounce of 
benzoin, a few drops at a time. This cleanses 
as well as whitens the skin. 

Sunburn. Shake well in a bottle one ounce 
of olive oil, one ounce of water or rosewater, 
one teaspoon of cooking-soda, and a tiny bit 
of soap. (The latter may be omitted.) This 
can be used when the skin is stiff, red, and 
sore. 

In Spanish tropical countries the ladies 
thickly powder the face to prevent sunburn, 
which in acute cases is always painful. 

Perspiration. Bathe with Ivory, or any 
good soap; rub on a little alcohol, and powder 
with a mixture of cooking-soda and talcum 
powder. 

Soap jelly for a shampoo. Make a jelly by 
dissolving a large cake of green castile soap, 
or any pure soap, in a quart of boiling water. 
This will keep, and can be used from time to 
time. First wet the hair with warm water, 
then take two tablespoonfuls of the jelly (a 
186 



TOILET IDEAS 

very little soda if desired) and rub thoroughly 
into the hair and well into the scalp. Rinse 
several times, making the water colder each 
time. Dry the hair in the sunlight and open 
air if not too cold. 

Shampoo for white hair. The best shampoo 
is four ounces of white castile soap, dissolved 
in one pint of boiling hot water. Cool and 
keep in glass. When ready to use, beat the 
white of an egg into as much soap as you need 
to use at one time. Rub into the scalp well 
before using any water, rinse in several waters 
and to the last water add a drop or two of 
bluing. Borax, soda, or ammonia should 
never be used on white hair, as it will give a 
most undesirable yellow tinge. 

For falling hair. Kerosene oil vigorously 
rubbed into the scalp will stop the hair from 
falling out. 

For vermin (lice). Wash the scalp and hair 
thoroughly with ammonia and water; repeat 
each day till there is no sign of life. Undi- 
luted kerosene answers the purpose and does 
not injure the hair, but gives it a beautiful 
gloss. A little sulpho-naphthol in water is 
187 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

another good remedy. In obstinate cases, it is 
often necessary to cut the hair besides using 
the remedies, before one can be quite sure the 
head is clear of the vermin. 

For rough hands in winter. Try one ounce of 
glycerine, two and a half ounces of rosewater, 
one half pint of alcohol, and twenty drops of 
Fowler's solution of arsenic. Corn or Indian 
meal is excellent for the hands and quite equal 
to the more expensive almond meal. A bowl 
of the meal kept in the bathroom, or near the 
kitchen sink, if faithfully used will keep the 
hands smooth and soft, and when chapped or 
sore will often heal them. After washing and 
drying the hands, dip them into the bowl of 
Indian meal, and rub diligently several times 
a day if chapped. A few drops of olive oil 
used on the hands occasionally will keep them 
smooth. 

To remove stains from the hands after 
paring vegetables, fruits, etc., dip the hands 
into a dish of strong tea, rub well with a nail- 
brush, and rinse in tepid waters. Ripe toma- 
toes, also the juice of a lemon, will remove 
stains from the hands. Always remember 
188 



TOILET IDEAS 

that, after washing the hands with soap, they 
should be rinsed in clear water. 

Care of the feet. Bathe the feet every morn- 
ing in warm water, soaping well; rinse in cold 
water. If a little alum is put into the water it 
will help harden, and prevent aching. A hand- 
ful of bran, once in a while, is very good, but 
soaking the feet will make them tender and 
soft. 

Lemon juice applied at night is most re- 
freshing to tired feet; a good rub with vase- 
line and talcum powder after it is most 
soothing. 

For perspiring feet, soak a few minutes in 
the alum water and then apply a lotion of 
white-oak bark. Dust into the stockings each 
morning some talcum powder. Each of these 
remedies, with fresh stockings each day and 
low shoes, which keep the feet better venti- 
lated, will soon lead to improved conditions if 
not a cure. 

Cold feet are helped by putting cayenne 
pepper in the shoes. 

Calloused feet. Callouses are hardened skin; 
they can be softened by applying petroleum 
189 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

jelly once a day. After using the jelly for two 
or three days, soak the feet in hot water, with 
a little mustard and salt added to the water. 
Do not cut, but rub off the hard skin with a 
rough towel, or with pumice soap. 

Equal parts of carbolic acid and glycerine 
applied persistently is excellent for calloused 
feet. 

When the feet feel inflamed and hot, wrap 
them in folds of cotton cloth wrung out in 
cold salt water, and over this put flannel. 

Rub the soles of the feet at night with a 
lemon; it will act as a tonic and a stimulant. 

Ingrowing nails. If the toe is very sore, 
remove the inflammation by soaking the foot 
in hot water and a few drops of sulpho- 
naphthol. Apply a salve made of mutton 
tallow, sugar, and castile soap. Our grand- 
mothers used to bind on a piece of salt pork 
to reduce soreness and swelling. 

Bunions and corns. These are caused by 
wearing shoes that do not fit well. A shoe too 
large will cause a corn quicker than a tight 
one. 

A bunion can be helped by wearing a plas- 
190 



TOILET IDEAS 

ter, but first remove some of the pressure by 
putting cotton between the big toe and its 
neighbor. The soreness and inflammation will 
yield to repeated applications of iodine. 

Corns. Apply and tie firmly a piece of lemon 
to the toe for several nights, and the corn will 
be easily removed. Two or even three appli- 
cations may be necessary for removal, in the 
worst cases. Never cut a corn ; there is always 
danger of blood poisoning. 

Soft corns are caused by pressure and mois- 
ture between the toes. Bathe the feet every 
night; be sure night and morning that the 
feet are perfectly dry between the toes. Apply 
collodion ; this will form an artificial skin over 
the corn and protect it so that it will heal. 

Chilblains will yield to alum water if ap- 
plied freely and generously. Carbolic soap will 
always relieve a mild case of chilblains. Tan- 
nin cools the feet. A few cents' worth sprin- 
kled or shaken into the stockings every day or 
so will relieve burning feet. 

Double chin. To develop the neck and 
reduce the double chin, stand erect with 
hands on the hips, fingers forward. Drop the 
191 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

chin slowly, then throw the head back quickly, 
but without a jerk; repeat ten or a dozen 
times. Turn the head to the right, with chin 
over shoulder, as many times. Then turn the 
head to the left in the same way, and the 
same number of times. Gradually increase 
the number of times each day until you can 
do it sixty times and not get tired. 

To fill in a hollow neck and soften the out- 
lines, try the rotary movement of the head. 
A five-minute daily exercise will work won- 
ders. Face directly front, drop the head for- 
ward till chin rests on the chest; now move the 
head in a rotary motion. 

To cure tired wrinkles, sleep by an open 
window. 

Insomnia. Sometimes, after a long period 
of wakefulness and restlessness, a tiny biscuit, 
or a glass of milk, will take the blood from the 
head and soothe one off to sleep. 

A mustard bath. Few know the value of 
mustard in the bath to relieve weariness. 
One tablespoonf ul of dry mustard in a bathtub 
of warm water will refresh tired and aching 
muscles and leave a pleasant glow. 



EMERGENCIES 

Bee stings or stings of any insect. Apply to 
the spot as soon as possible ammonia and 
water, bruised or chewed catnip or plantain 
leaves, moistened cooking-soda or saleratus, 
or wet earth. Any of these remedies will ease 
the pain very quickly. 

Bites of any domestic animal dogs, cats, 
parrots, etc. may be dangerous and should 
be washed at once and thoroughly in water 
and sulpho-napthol as hot as can be endured, 
wrapped in absorbent cotton, and saturated 
with alcohol, till the doctor or surgeon arrives. 

Burns. Apply a solution of common bak- 
ing-soda (one tablespoonful of soda to a glass 
of water), sweet oil, olive oil, carron oil (made 
of equal parts of lime water and linseed oil), 
or vaseline thickly spread on the spot. The 
object is to exclude the air arid dust from the 
injured surface. If the clothing catches on 
fire, never run; lie down and roll, which will 
extinguish the flames. Throw a person down, 
193 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

wrap him in a rug, and roll till the fire is 
smothered. 

Burns from gunpowder and electricity may 
be treated just as burns from fire. 

Black eye. To prevent a black eye, rub the 
injured part with butter and it will Hot turn 
color. 

Choking. If meat or anything lodges in the 
throat and there is danger of choking, raise 
the left arm high above the head. This with 
the coughing will generally dislodge the ob- 
ject. A few quick blows with the open hand 
between the shoulder blades will often be 
enough. A child may be held up by the feet, 
head down; this with a few blows between the 
shoulders will jar and dislodge the foreign 
body if not too far down. 

Cough. Any hot drink will soothe a cough. 
A teaspoonful of glycerine in a small glass of 
hot milk will arrest a severe attack of cough- 
ing. 

A hot-water bag on the chest at night will 
soothe and relieve a cough or cold. 

Flaxseed tea (for a cough and sore throat). 
Boil fifteen minutes two tablespoonfuls of 
194 



\mmrn 







EMERGENCIES 

whole flaxseed in a pint of boiling water. 
Cut up one lemon and add two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Strain the flaxseed boiling hot over 
the lemon and sugar and stir well. 

Hoarseness. Make a tea of Irish moss and 
hot water, steep a long time; strain, flavor 
with lemon juice, and sweeten to taste. 

Cold. A hot bath should be taken, followed 
by a cathartic ; and the patient put to bed . One 
day in bed will often cure a bad cold. An ef- 
fective modern remedy is a hypodermic treat- 
ment with the antitoxin derived from the 
streptococcus bacillus, the cause of colds. It 
promptly breaks up the trouble and prevents 
the sore throat and cough that otherwise may 
follow. Of course this treatment may be ad- 
ministered only by a physician. 

Cramps. Cramps in the limbs may be re- 
lieved by simply rubbing, or starting up the 
circulation by jumping out of bed. For cramps 
in the bowels caused by colic, apply flannels 
dipped in hot water. Heat alone will often 
relieve the pain. If colic cramps are very 
severe a warm enema is helpful. 

Croup. Summon a physician at once; croup 
195 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

is dangerous to young children. Meanwhile 
apply hot flannels to the chest. Keep the 
room warm; if possible have a tea-kettle boil- 
ing rapidly; the steam will help and relieve 
the patient. 

Diarrhoea. First give a tablespoonful of 
castor oil (or sweet oil) for an adult, or a 
teaspoonful for a child, to remove the irritat- 
ing cause; then give some diarrhoea remedy. 

Earache. Apply a hot-water bottle, or 
cloths wrung out of hot water, over the seat 
of the pain. Put into the ear a drop of warm 
olive oil. 

Fainting. Lay the patient down flat, head 
level with the body; loosen the clothing, 
especially about the neck. Allow all the air 
there is, and bathe carefully the face and 
hands with cold water. Smelling-salts will 
also help revival. 

Fits. Lay the patient flat, put one arm 
under his head, and loosen the clothing. Place 
any hard substance between the teeth to 
prevent biting the tongue. 

Frost-bites. Rub the frozen places with 
snow or cloths wrung out of cold water; keep 
196 



EMERGENCIES 

the patient away from heat. Continue the 
rubbing, and give hot tea or coffee or brandy 
in small quantities. 

Hiccough. Try holding the breath persist- 
ently. Drink cold water very slowly; if this 
does not help, a small quantity of sugar has 
been known to stop the trouble even in 
adults. 

Hysteria. The patient will best recover if 
left alone. Do not sympathize or restrain. If 
very severe, apply mustard plasters to soles 
of feet and palms of hands. 

Ivy poisoning. Any one very susceptible to 
poisoning by ivy, sumach, or any other poi- 
sonous plant may often prevent an attack by 
anointing the face and hands with olive oil or 
vaseline before going into the woods, or by 
washing the face and hands with a solution of 
cooking-soda on returning. 

There are many and various remedies: 
Glycerine is said to kill it at once. If the blis- 
ters are too deep to bear rubbing, lay on 
cloths wet in a solution of equal parts of 
water and glycerine. Plain cream is a useful 
remedy. For the inflammation, apply cloths 
197 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

wet in a cooking-soda solution (a tablespoon- 
ful of soda to a cupful of water) or lime 
water. Dissolve starch in a glass of water, 
apply freely and allow to dry. This is cool- 
ing, and will stop the itching and dry the 
pimples. Some find dry starch or talcum 
powder cooling and soothing to the inflam- 
mation. 

Indigestion. A simple or severe attack can 
be immediately helped by drinking a cup of 
very hot water. Lukewarm water may act as 
an emetic. Lime water will relieve many 
forms of stomach trouble and will often re- 
move the cause of bad breath. So useful is this 
that no one should be without it; it is inex- 
pensive and easy to make. Put as much lime 
as you can hold in one hand in one gallon of 
water. When sediment settles, pour off the 
clear liquid from time to time as required. A 
tablespoonf ul of this solution in a glass of milk 
will not affect the taste and makes it most 
digestible. 

Mustard plaster. Mix one tablespoonful of 
corn meal or flour with two tablespoonfuls of 
mustard, wet till moist, and spread on a piece 
198 



EMERGENCIES 

of muslin; cover with another piece and heat 
before applying. 

Neuralgia. Apply to the seat of pain a bag 
of salt or sand heated very hot, or a plate 
heated in the oven. Try hot cloths or a hot- 
water bag. If heat does not relieve the pain, 
an ice-bag may. 

Nose-bleed. In extreme cases a physician 
should be called, as the loss of much blood is 
weakening. But as a rule nose-bleed need not 
cause anxiety. Do not allow the patient to 
bend the head, but sit or stand erect. Apply 
ice or cloths wet in cold water to the back of 
the neck. Press a hard roll or wad of tissue 
paper under the upper lip as far as it can go, 
and hold it there with the tongue till the 
bleeding stops. The nose must not be blown 
for hours after bleeding stops. 

Poisons. Send for a doctor immediately, 
but give an emetic at once. An emetic always 
near is a teaspoonful of salt or mustard in a 
cup of lukewarm water. Repeat every few 
minutes until vomiting occurs. 

Shock. Send at once for a doctor, but lay 
the patient flat and keep warm with blankets 
199 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

and hot-water bottles, whether summer or 
winter. Rub the arms and legs vigorously 
always towards the heart. If conscious give 
hot drinks: tea, coffee, or hot milk. 

Sore throat. For a simple sore throat caused 
by a cold, nothing near at hand is better than 
gargling repeatedly with saleratus or salt and 
water. At night pack the throat with several 
folds of linen wrung out in cold salt water and 
over this a flannel band. This steams the 
throat and eases the inflammation. 

Sore finger. Soak the inflamed part for 
some time in hot water in which has been put 
a few drops of sulpho-naphthol. Repeat till 
the throbbing has stopped. This remedy may 
be used for sore toes or sore places on the 
foot from a blister. 

Sprains. Fold a towel or cloth around the 
sprain and keep it wet with ice-cold or very 
hot water till the inflammation is reduced. 
Where heat does not succeed, an ice-bag 
will. In ankle and foot sprains, elevate the 
foot. 

Unconsciousness. Lay the patient flat with 
head raised slightly. Keep the body warm, 
200 



EMERGENCIES 

applying hot-water bottles to the feet, and 
bathe the head in cold water. (In some hos- 
pitals nurses are not allowed to use hot-water 
bottles for fear of burning the patient.) Give 
aromatic ammonia, but no stimulants unless 
directed by a doctor. 

Vomiting. The patient should always lie 
flat on his back. Give large quantities of 
water as hot as can be taken. Small bits of 
ice, swallowed, or melted in the mouth, will 
often relieve. In seasickness, always lie flat 
on the back, without a pillow, and remain as 
quiet as possible. 

Wounds. If severe, summon a doctor. 
Cover the wound at once with something 
clean. It is better to bind a wound at once, dirt 
and all, than to handle with unclean hands. 
In pierced wounds, caused by needles, bits 
of glass or splinters, remove the cause with a 
large needle (sterilized in alcohol or a candle 
flame) and then freely apply hot water and 
some sort of antiseptic. Soap and water fol- 
lowed by alcohol is our best disinfectant. In 
slight bruises apply hot or cold water and 
keep the body warm. 

201 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

PERIODS OF INFECTION OF CONTAGIOUS 
DISEASES 

Measles. Three weeks from the commence- 
ment of the disease, if all rash and cough have 
ceased. 

Mumps. Three weeks from the commence- 
ment of the disease, if all swelling has gone 
down. 

Chicken pox. Three weeks from the com- 
mencement of the disease, if every scab has 
fallen off. 

Typhus. Four weeks from the commence- 
ment, if strength is reestablished. 

Diphtheria. Six weeks from the commence- 
ment, if sore throat and other signs of the dis- 
ease have disappeared. 

Smallpox. Six weeks from the commence- 
ment, if every scab has fallen off. 

Scarlet fever. Six weeks from the commence- 
ment of the disease, if the nose is not sore and 
the peeling has ceased. 

Typhoid fever. Six weeks from the com- 
mencement of the disease, if strength has 
returned. 

202 



EMERGENCIES 

Whooping-cough. Six weeks from com- 
mencement, if cough has ceased. 

LENGTH OF QUARANTINE AFTER EXPOSURE 

Diphtheria twelve days. 
Scarlet fever fourteen days. 
Smallpox, measles, and chicken pox eight- 
een days. 

Whooping-cough twenty-one days. 
Mumps twenty-four days. 



NEEDLEWORK AND OTHER 
HANDWORK 



Nightingale. Two yards of flannel or silk 
will make a pretty and comfortable wrap for 
an invalid, sitting up in bed. A straight slit 
is cut six inches deep in the middle of one side 
and the corners turned back to form the neck. 
The opposite corners are turned back to 



form the cuffs. The edges can be bound or 
trimmed with ribbon; the turned-back cor- 
ners at neck and wrist may be trimmed with 
lace and tied with ribbons at dotted places 
in illustration, or buttoned. This wrap is said 
to be an invention of Florence Nightingale, 
204 



NEEDLEWORK 

who planned and made it for her convalescent 
patients in the Crimean War. 

Japanese kimono. Six yards of crepe will 
be ample for this garment, the quantity de- 
pending, in a measure, on 
the height of the wearer. 
First cut off thirty-eight 
inches for the sleeves, 
which are fourteen inches * Sleeve 
the other way. Sew the 
sleeve together at the 
bottom to a depth of 
five inches, making the 
pocket which is invaluable to the Japanese 
wearer. Fold the goods left in the middle; if 
too long, measure the wearer from neck to 
floor and fold accordingly. Cut the material 
in the middle of one side to the very top, 
measure five inches across the centre and cut 
slanting any distance to suit. The neck and 
sides may be finished with a three-inch band 
of the same, or with ribbon. A robe made in 
Japan will often have a strip a yard long on 
each side and the ends finished square. To 
sew the sleeves in, put the half of the sleeve 
205 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 



at the top of the garment, making an ex- 
tended straight line from the shoulder to 
sleeve. 

5 in. Fold 



V 



A slip-over gown cut by measure. Fold three 
and one half yards of forty-inch goods in the 
middle, making it secure with pins. Find the 
middle of the fold and mark a circle for the 
neck with a dinner plate. On the edges meas- 
ure down nine inches from the fold, and at 
right angles from this, towards the centre, 
206 



NEEDLEWORK 



8 in. 



8 in. 



measure eight inches. From this point cut a 
diagonal line to the bottom of the goods to 
make the sleeve, 
measure twelve 
inches from the 
fold, or three inches 
more, and cut diag- 
onally to the eight 
inches mark. If too 
scant, the long tri- 
angular pieces can 
be turned upside 
down and set into 
the body of the 
gown. An improve- 
ment in the fit can 
be made by taking 
up two tucks an 

inch wide, five inches deep in both front and 
back. Beading may be used at the neck, or 
embroidered scallop. 

Nightdress by diagram. Fold three and one 
half yards of nainsook in the middle, and dou- 
ble so as to have half the width. Measure on 
the top fold seven inches, on the side, five 
207 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 



7 in. 



inches, and in the middle, six inches in a 
slanting line; cut a circle and form the neck 

of the gown. Meas- 
ure from the top 
fold at the side 
twelve inches and 
draw a slanted line 
as indicated ; on 
this line, five inches 
from edge of goods, 
make a dot from 
which you get the 
slanting side of the 
gown. Two inches 
on this line will in- 
dicate the curve of 
the sleeve. 

PiquS hat for a baby. Make a circle eleven 
and one half inches in diameter with a pencil 
and cord, or with a dinner plate. Mark a cir- 
cle in the centre of this small circle, and you 
have the rim of the hat, which may be fin- 
ished with embroidered scallops. Bind the 
inner edge with white muslin or tape and sew 
on buttons about two inches apart. 
208 




NEEDLEWORK 




For the crown, make a circle nine inches in 
diameter; finish the edge with scallops; make 
as many buttonholes as you have buttons 
(possibly eight); they must be three inches 
apart, and quite near the edge. Button the 
two pieces together and sew on muslin ties. 

A work-apron for men. This is practically 
a surgeon's apron, but if made of denim 
or coarse colored 
linen, it is suitable 
for any kind of 
work. It will take 
one yard of mate- 
rial twenty -seven 
inches wide, or if v 

the goods is a yard 
wide, it may be 
made with the 
width of the goods 
for the length of 
the apron. Find 

the middle of the top and measure each way 
four and one half inches, making nine inches 
in all. From the bottom of the goods towards 
the top, measure twenty-four inches, and fold 
209 



L-. 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

from this point in a slanting line to the nine- 
inch measure. A strap an inch wide and 
twenty-three inches long is made of the goods 
and sewed at each corner of the top, to go 
over the neck. Two other straps to tie are 
attached to the opposite corners of the slant. 
A pocket may be added if desired. 

Home-made towels. Fourteen yards of dam- 
ask toweling will make one dozen towels. Six 
of these may be hemstitched and six embroid- 
ered with scallops. Each towel should be cut 
forty-two inches long, which will leave plenty 
of room for a hem or a scalloped finish. 

A pin-cushion (a miniature mattress). This 
cushion requires three eighths of a yard of 
flowered ribbon five inches wide, and a yard 
and a quarter of an inch wide, to match the 
dominant color in the wider ribbon. Cut the 
wide ribbon into two equal parts to make the 
mattress-like cover; fasten these together by 
sewing the narrow ribbon around three sides, 
leaving one end open. Into this opening slip 
as many layers of wool wadding as it will 
easily take. Sew the end which has been left 
open, and tuft the mattress with a colored 
210 



HAVE THE BACK-DOOR AS ATTRACTIVE AS THE FRONT-DOOR 



NEEDLEWORK 

embroidery silk to match the narrow rib- 
bon. If desirable to hang this cushion, sew 
some of the narrow ribbon to the upper 
corners. Filled with colored pins it makes 
a very pretty and a useful present at any 
season. 

Scrap-bag. This bag can also be used for 
soiled linen. Take three yards of percale and 
fold in thirds, stitch the sides and bottom 
together, and put a piece of curtain stick 
eighteen inches long in a hem at the top. In 
the middle of the two outside pieces make a 
slit about nine or ten inches long, and you 
have two compartments, one on each side of 
the centre yard. 

Work-bag. Cover with silk or cretonne two 
circular pieces six inches in diameter for the 
bottom of the bag. Cut a piece twenty-seven 
inches long and twelve inches wide, sew this 
together and gather one side over a small 
embroidery hoop for the top. Sew the other 
side, either gathered or plaited, to one of the 
circular pieces; the second circular piece is 
put inside and will cover all the raw edges. 
This bag is closed by twisting the ring at the 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

top, and is good not only for work, but for 
handkerchiefs or collars. 

Button-bag. Cut two circles of any material 
twelve or fifteen inches in diameter, stitch 
these partly together wrong side out and turn, 
sewing the rest by hand. Firmly sew brass 
rings about three inches or less apart all 
around the edge, run a ribbon through, and 
so draw up the bag, which can be opened flat, 
when hunting for a sizable button. 

A simple way of cutting collars and yokes 
that will fit. Lay a plain waist-lining, with the 

shoulders basted on a 
paper, cut around the 
neck down the front 
and back. Trace with 
a wheel on this paper 
a collar or any shape 
yoke desired. 

1 is a collar; 2 a 
deeper collar or round yoke; 3 a square yoke. 
Sewing in sleeves. An easy way to put 
sleeves in a dress or shirt-waist. Trim out 
the arm-size to fit, take a tape measure and 
measure one inch back from shoulder seam. 




NEEDLEWORK 

Double the arm-hole; where it comes oppo- 
site, cut a notch. Put the inside seam of 
sleeve at this notch, gathering the sleeve two 
inches back from the shoulder seam and four 
inches toward the front. 

Sewing helps. A good interlining for cuffs 
or tailored shirt-waists is soft old table-linen. 
The linen is already shrunk and holds the 
starch well. 

Sew a button on the neckband of a shirt- 
waist instead of making a buttonhole. It will 
always be there, and there is no stud to press 
on the back of the neck. 

It is almost impossible to machine-stitch 
fine lace or any thin material without puck- 
ering unless it is stitched over newspaper. 
Baste on the paper; after stitching, the paper 
will tear away very easily, leaving the work all 
smooth. This is advisable when stitching thin 
silk. 

When sewing-silk is used on a machine, a 
small piece of flannel or felt, put on the spin- 
dle under the spool, will prevent the silk from 
unwinding, tightening, and breaking, as it 
often does from a fresh spool. 
213 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

When sewing a new braid on a skirt, insert 
a thin piece of cardboard in the hem, and 
thus prevent the stitches catching through. 
The braid should always be shrunk in boiling 
water before using. 

To prevent cotton from knotting, make 
the knot on the end of the thread that first 
leaves the spool, and you will sew without 
kinks or knots. 

When putting hooks and eyes on a waist, 
sew the eyes on the left front the required 
distance apart, with the loops a little way out 
so as to hook readily, then baste right front 
over this left side, lapping as much as neces- 
sary. Then turn waist wrong side out, put a 
hook in each eye, one at a time, and sew in place. 

When sewing a hem, measure and mark by 
making holes with a big needle. 

EMBROIDERY 

In old times, our great-grandmothers in 
their childhood worked samplers, which were 
done in cross-stitch, this stitch being the most 
familiar type of canvas stitch, which is con- 
sidered the earliest used embroidery stitch. 
214 



NEEDLEWORK 

Cross-stitch was worked upon the mesh in the 
form of a cross, and it is of the greatest im- 
portance that the stitches always cross in the 
same way. Square-meshed canvas has been 
made to guide the worker in making designs 
and patterns upon the different fabrics. 

Outline stitch. The first stitch in these days 
taught to a beginner is outline stitch, some- 
times called stem stitch, Kensington stitch, or 
tent stitch. It may be described as a long 
stitch on the surface and a short stitch on the 
under side, the thread always kept above the 
needle; that is, to the left. 

Bulgarian stitch. Several rows of this 
stitch, side by side, and close together, are 
known as Bulgarian stitch. 

Chain stitch. Bring the needle and thread 
out, hold the thread down with the left 
thumb, put the needle in again at the hole 
through which you brought it out, take up one 
quarter of an inch of the goods; drawing the 
thread through this gives you the first link in 
the chain. The back of the work is like a back 
stitch. A decorative chain may be made by 
slanting the stitch from left to right. 
215 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Seed stitch is made of two or three tiny 
stitches one over the other, the thread carried 
on the back to the place for the next seed. It 
is used in fine needlework for filling in leaves 
or the petals of flowers. 

Big needle stitch. This stitch is found in most 
of the muslin capes and collars of a hundred 
years or more ago. One comes across it in let- 
ters, leaves, petals of flowers, as a background, 
in single rows or in continuous rows close to- 
gether to give a lacelike edge. It looks like 
drawn work, but no threads are drawn. 

The material must be very sheer, the needle 
very large, No. or No. 1, and the cotton 
fine, either No. 100 or No. 150. The needle- 
ful must not be too long; it is a help, if not a 
necessity, to tie the thread into the needle. 
This stitch is not difficult and can be done 
rapidly after one sees the method. 

Draw a line with a pencil on a piece of thin 
white cotton as a sampler, mark dots above 
and below this line as a guide; notice the dots 

531 are not opposite. Tie the cotton 
VW" from 3 to 1 on the under side, sew 
6 4 2 _. on this over and over twice to bind 
216 



NEEDLEWORK 

the little bunch of threads or goods taken 
up. Now pass the needle diagonally from 3 
to 2 across the line, and sew over and over 
as before. Next, work from 2 to 4, then 4 to 
3 across the line, from 3 to 5, then 5 to 4 
across the line, from 4 to 6, then 6 to 5 across 
the line, and so on indefinitely. 

Another method is to have the dots one 
above the other. Tie the thread as before from 
97531 3tol, and sew over and over 
| ' ' ' till bound; three times ought to 
10 8 6 4 2 j^ enou g n< Now pass the needle 
diagonally from 1 to 4 on the under side, sew 
from 4 to 2, complete the group by sewing 
from 3 to 4. Next, work from 5 to 3, pass the 
needle diagonally on the under side and from 
6 to 4, and then from 5 to 6. Continue till 
practice makes easy and perfect. If the stitches 
pucker the goods, the fault is in taking up too 
many threads or having the dots too far apart. 
One can, after seeing into the method, soon 
make the stitch as easily as one can sew any- 
thing, work without a guiding line, and never 
use a dot. 

Herring-bone stitch. This is a most familiar 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

stitch; it has been used so exclusively for 
seams that its decorative qualities have been 
overlooked. It may be worked in fine lines or 
in tapering forms. The rising sun, which was 
made in one corner of the old homespun blan- 
kets, was done, in circular rows of bright- 
colored wool, in this stitch. 

Buttonhole stitch. This stitch is more useful 
in decoration than one might expect. A sim- 
ple buttonhole stitch, taken far apart, will 
make the blanket stitch much used on flannels. 
Two rows of this stitch, used back to back, 
will give a fairly good leaf form. A very sim- 
ple form of this stitch is made by keeping the 
thread to the left, putting the needle higher 
up, slightly to the right, and bringing it out 
below. This gives a one-sided buttonhole 
stitch, and when used with coarse silk instead 
of braid on a braiding pattern is most decor- 
ative and satisfactory. The ladder stitch, 
which is often found in Oriental work, is a 
form of buttonhole stitch and quite easy. 

Ladder stitch. Draw (for a sample) on some 
white material two parallel lines a quarter of 
an inch apart. Use colored silk to show the 
218 



NEEDLEWORK 

pattern well. Start at the top of the left-hand 
line, hold the thread down with the left 
thumb, put the needle in the next line at the 
top, slanting it to come out below the starting- 
place, and above the thread. Pull the thread 
through its entire length, then with the point 
of the needle pull the slanting thread to form 
a square, inserting the needle directly oppo- 
site where the thread came out, slanting the 
needle as at first. 

Feather stitch. This stitch is simple slanting 
buttonhole stitch. It is called brier, coral, and 
cat stitch, as well as feather stitch. This last 
name is given because of its feathery appear- 
ance. It may be described as an alternate 
buttonhole loop made first on the right and 
then on the left-hand side. The loops may be 
single, or in pairs, or in threes, fours, or fives; 
combined with dots or French knots, one can 
make a variety of designs. 

French knots. To form the simple French 
knot, bring out your thread to its full length 
where the knot is to be, hold the thread under 
your left thumb, put your needle under the 
thread quite near the cloth, and turn it so as 
219 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

to twist the thread once around it. Then put 
the needle in where it came out, draw it 
through from the back, and bring out where 
the next knot is to be. One twist of very 
coarse silk will make a beautiful knot; but 
many prefer to twist the silk two or three 
times. If a very large knot is desired, it is 
better to use double thread than to twist so 
many times around the needle. 

Bullion or roll stitch is made by winding 
the thread about the needle seven or eight 
times, and is used in making small flowers 
and leaves. It has also been called the rice 
stitch; when done in cotton, it resembles 
rice. 

Lazy daisy or bird's-eye stitch. This is a 
loop like a chain stitch radiating from a cen- 
tre. The loop is fastened by a tiny stitch at 
its base, and the needle brought out at the 
centre again. 

Darning stitches. This consists of parallel 
lines of alternating stitches long on the face 
and short on the back of the material. A 
greater part of the thread being on the sur- 
face, it is valuable as a background, leaving 
220 



NEEDLEWORK 

out the design which has been worked in out- 
line stitch. 

Satin stitch is at its best when worked in 
floss; the stitch must lie evenly and not be 
too long. Long-and-short stitch is a form of 
satin stitch. 

Couching is fastening to the material to be 
embroidered one or more threads or cords, 
with small stitches at right angles to the 
cords. It is best done in a frame. 

CROCHET 

Irish crochet lace. This lace may be made 
of silk, linen, or cotton, whether fine or coarse 
depends upon the use to which the lace is to 
be put. It may be used for dress trimmings, 
medallions, edgings, and yokes, and when 
made of colored silks or even silkatine, is most 
effective on colored dresses. There are a 
number of cotton and linen threads imported 
for the work, Manlove cotton possibly being 
the favorite, though Madonna cotton does 
excellent work. Any of the crochet cottons are 
suitable, and ordinary spool cotton will make 
a good strong durable lace. 
231 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Madonna cotton No. 80, Manlove cotton 
No. 50, and Coats's cotton No. 60, with a num- 
ber 11 or 12 needle, are best for fine work. 

Manlove cotton No. 36, Crochet cotton No. 
50, and Coats's cotton No. 24, will make a 
coarse, firm and durable beading, insertion, 
or edge, for cotton dresses and heavy linen 
or cotton crepe shirt waists. 

Explanation of stitches 

A chain stitch is a series of loops drawn with 
the crochet needle through the preceding 
loop. 

Single crochet is made by inserting the hook 
in the work and drawing the thread through 
the work and the stitch on the needle. 

A double crochet is made by putting the 
needle or hook through the work, thread over 
needle and draw through the work (thus giv- 
ing two stitches on the needle), then draw the 
thread through these two stitches. 

A treble crochet is made by putting the 

thread over the hook, the hook through the 

work, thread over and draw through the work 

(thus giving three stitches on the needle), then 

222 



NEEDLEWORK 

draw the thread through two (this still leaves 
two on the needle), and finish by drawing 
the thread through the last two. 

Picot means a loop and is made up of a 
chain stitch in different lengths depending on 
the work. 

A narrow and simple edge. Make a chain 
the length desired. Crochet chains of five and 
catch in every fourth stitch of the long chain 
to the end, and break off the thread. Fill the 
first of these loops at the starting-point with 
8 doubles; the second loop with 4 doubles; 
turn, chain 5 and catch to the centre of the 
8 doubles; fill this chain of 5 with 4 doubles 
and 1 picot (which is a chain of 4), 4 doubles, 
and the remaining space in the loop with 4 
doubles. This makes one scallop; continue by 
repeating. 

Narrow edge. This can be crocheted di- 
rectly into the muslin if desired by omitting 
the chain at first. For an edge to sew on ma- 
terial, make a chain the length desired. Cro- 
chet chain of six and fasten to the foundation 
chain ; skipping four stitches, make these loops 
the entire length of chain and break off the 
223 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

thread. Into first loop of 6 chain, crochet 6 
doubles, a picot of 4 chain, 4 doubles. Chain 
8 and fasten back into the middle of the 6 
doubles; fill the chain of 8 with 2 doubles and 
a picot for six times, or until there are Gpicots; 
then 2 doubles into the same scallop, and 2 
more doubles into the chain of 6; this com- 
pletes the tiny scallop. Into next loop of 6 
chain, crochet 6 doubles, a picot of 4 chain, 
4 doubles. Repeat ; and so on to the end of 
the long chain. 

Pretty edge crocheted on goods. First over- 
cast the material, or turn it over once and 
baste closely, crocheting deeply into the 
goods. Crochet 15 doubles into goods, chain 
51 and fasten back over 10 of these doubles, 
fill this loop of 15 chain 

5 doubles, 1 picot (a chain of 4) 
.5 doubles, 1 picot 

5 doubles, 1 picot 

5 doubles. 

(This makes 3 picots in all and 5 doubles at 
each end of the scallop.) Crochet 5 doubles 
into edge of goods. Chain 10 and fasten back 
into first picot of scallop; chain 13 and fasten 



NEEDLEWORK 

into third picot of scallop (skipping the mid- 
dle one) ; chain 10 and fasten at the starting- 
point, or over the first 5 doubles that were 
left. 

{5 doubles, 1 picot 
3 doubles, 1 picot 
5 doubles. 
(Notice only 2 picots.) 

{4 doubles, 1 picot 
4 doubles, 1 picot 
4 doubles, 1 picot 
4 doubles. 
(Notice 3 picots.) 
Fill last loop of 10 like the first. 
(This makes one completed scallop.) Begin 
the next scallop with 15 doubles in the edge 
of the goods. This pattern crocheted in coarse 
linen is most effective on the edge of doilies. 
Edge of doily. (Use No. 20 O. N. T.) Cut 
the doily the required size and prepare edge. 
Crochet 4 doubles into goods, chain 4 for a 
picot, then 4 doubles into goods. 

Chain 14 for the first scallop, turn and 
catch back into 5th stitch of the chain, leav- 
ing a loop the use of which will be revealed 
225 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

when the doily is ready to be finished. Cover 
this chain with 16 doubles; catch into cloth. 
Turn and crochet in back of these 16 doubles 
till all are used. 

4 doubles, 1 picot 

m , 4 doubles, 1 picot 

Turn and crochet < 

4 doubles, 1 picot 

4 doubles. 

(This covers the 16 doubles and makes 3 
picots in all.) Catch into cloth. (This will 
leave a detached scallop.) Crochet again into 
cloth 4 doubles, 1 picot, 4 doubles. Chain 9 
and catch into first picot of detached scallop ; 
fill this chain with 16 doubles and proceed as 
before. In making doilies, after crocheting the 
first scallop, use this as a unit and so equally 
divide the remainder of the circle, which will 
simplify the work and keep the scallops equal 
in size. 

A narrow insertion. This is suitable for a 
shirt-waist or dress and can be used as a bead- 
ing if desired. 

Crochet chain of 16, fasten with a treble on 
this chain into ninth stitch from the needle. 
Chain 5 and fasten with a treble, skipping 5 



NEEDLEWORK 

of the foundation chain. Chain 3 and with a 
treble fasten to the end. This is the first row 
completed and will consist of three open 
spaces. 

Turn, chain 8, and catch with treble into 
first treble of previous row. Crochet 4 trebles 
in the next space and fasten with a fifth treble 
into last treble of previous row. Chain 3 and 
catch with treble into chain of 8. This finishes 
the second row. 

Turn, chain 8, fasten with a treble into first 
treble of previous row. Chain 5, skip 4 trebles, 
and fasten with a treble into next treble of 
previous row. Chain 3 and fasten with treble 
into chain of 8. 

This will show the pattern and the repeti- 
tion can be easily followed. 

Ladder pattern. (A narrow beading.) Cro- 
chet a chain of 18 and catch it together in a 
big loop ; turn, chain 2, and into the big loop 
put 5 doubles, 1 picot of 5 chain, 5 doubles. 
Chain 10 and catch with a treble into the 
chain of 2 or the first of the 5 doubles (skip- 
ping over all that has been done). This will 
give a proper space between the bars. 
227 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Chain 2 and again fill chain of 10 with 5 
doubles, 1 picot, 5 doubles. 

Repeat until you have the desired length. 
The outer edge on each side is finished and 
made firm by filling each section with 4 dou- 
bles. 

This beading if required for heavy linen 
may be made of No. 20, 24, or 36 Coats's cot- 
ton. 

An insertion. (Wider than the others.) Use 
No. 40 Coats's cotton. Chain 28 and catch 
into 8th stitch from the needle, making a 
loop. 

First row Chain 6 and catch back into 
third from needle, making a small picot. 
Chain 6 and catch back to make another 
picot. Chain 2 and fasten this to chain of 28, 
after skipping 4 stitches of chain. This makes 
a loop with 2 picots on it. 

Repeat these picot loops making 3 in all, 
and fasten with a chain of 5 to the end of 
foundation chain of 28. 

Second row Turn, chain 8 and fasten 
into middle of chain 5. Make the picot loops 
(6 chain caught back for picot, 6 chain caught 
228 



NEEDLEWORK 

back for picot, 2 chain) and catch into middle 
of loop between the picots; finish this row 
with 5 chain into centre of 8 chain. 

Third row. Turn, chain 8, and catch into 
middle of 5 chain, and repeat picot loops 
across. 

The pattern can now be easily seen and fol- 
lowed. 

Irish crochet rose. (A simple and easy rose 
to make.) Chain 6 and join in a ring; chain 
6 and put one treble into this ring; repeat 
till there are six places for petals, the last 
chain of 4 being caught into first chain of six. 
First row of petals Crochet into first 
space indicated or loop 

f 1 double 

of four < 5 trebles 

1 1 double 

Repeat till all six petals are made. 
Chain 7 and fasten in back of petals (be- 
tween each one) for six petals. 

Second row of petals Crochet into loop 

( 1 double 

of seven 1 9 trebles 

1 1 double 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Repeat in each loop till second row of six 
petals is made. 

Chain 9 and fasten in back of second row of 
petals. 

Third row of petals Crochet into loop 

{1 double 
11 trebles 
1 double 

Repeat till third row of petals is com- 
plete. 

If another row is desired, chain 11, and so 
on, increasing the chain 2 stitches and adding 
two more trebles each time. 

Crocheted shawl. This shawl is made of 
chains; the work begins in the centre and the 
meshes increase as the shawl grows in size. 

Chain 5 to form a ring. 

Chain 3, catch into ring; repeat till there 
are 4 loops in all. 

Chain 1 and catch in back of next loop of 
chain 3, so as to start second row at top of the 
loop. 

Second row. Chain 3, catch with a slip 
stitch, in the stitch started from; chain 3 and 
fasten in middle of next 3 chain ; chain 3 and 
230 



NEEDLEWORK 

catch in same stitch for widening at the cor- 
ner. Chain 3, catch into next loop, chain 3 
and catch into same. 

Continue in this way, being careful to 
widen in the same stitch at each of the four 
corners by crocheting twice in one loop. 

When the centre is large enough, chain 5 
instead of 3 for four or five rows, always wid- 
ening at the corners. 

The shawl may be finished with fringe tied 
in, or with a fringe made of long chains of 
equal length, or with scallops. 

Crochet rug. Cut unbleached cotton, either 
white or colored, int inch-wide strips, sew 
together as if for carpet rags, and crochet with 
a very big hook in circles or ovals. A cream- 
white one with a blue border makes a pretty 
rug for a bedroom and can be easily washed. 

Use the double crochet stitch and widen 
often enough to make it lie flat. 

KNITTING 

Explanation of stitches, and abbreviations 
found in most directions: 
k. = Knit plain. 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

p. = Purl, or, as it is often called, seam. 
Throw the thread over the needle (which will 
bring it in front of the work). Insert the 
right-hand needle into the stitch exactly op- 
posite of the usual way and knit. Always keep 
the thread in front of the work instead of 
back as usual. 

n. = Narrow. To decrease or narrow is 
simply to knit two stitches together. 

k 2 to. = Knit two together or narrow. 

si. = Slip a stitch from the left needle to 
the right without knitting it. 

si. and b. = Slip and bind. Slip one stitch, 
knit the next, then pass the slipped stitch 
over the knit stitch. This is also called cast 

off. 

o. = Throw the thread over the needle. 
This also will make one if the next stitch is 
knitted as usual and in the next row this 
thread over is knitted as a stitch. 

To knit crossed. = Insert needle in the 
back of the stitch and knit as usual. 

To bind or cast off. = Slip or knit the first 
stitch; knit the next, pass the slip stitch over 
the knitted and repeat till none are left. 



NEEDLEWORK 

Row. = Means to knit across once when 
two needles are used. 

Wristers. (Use silkatine or knitting-silk.) 
Cast 85 stitches on to three needles. Knit in 
ribs of three stitches plain and two seamed 
for 90 rows. Bind off loosely and finish edge 
with a crocheted scallop. 

Knit purse. (Old-fashioned and was used 
for silver and gold. Use silkatine or knitting- 
silk.) Cast on 59 stitches and knit first row 
plain. 

Second row. Seam two together, thread 
over, across the row; knit the last stitch. 

Repeat this row till there are 65 rows. Knit 
83 rows plain. Knit 64 rows like the second 
row. Bind off. Gather and sew the ends; sew 
the sides, leaving an opening in the middle of 
two and a half inches. 

Always keep 59 stitches on the needle. 

Knit balls. (A plaything for children.) 
Cast on 24 stitches and knit alternate stripes 
of white and some color. Knit two rows 
across in each color, and 24 stripes in all, then 
join. 

Fill a small pill-box with beans; wind a ball 
233 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

of common coarse yarn or twine about it; 
draw over this the knitting and sew the ends 
with a needle and coarse thread. 

Knit blanket. (Use bone or wooden needles .) 
Knit in strips a yard long of alternate colors. 
Cast on 17 stitches. Knit one row across the 
needle. Seam one row. Knit one row. Seam 
one row. Knit one row. Repeat from first 
row. 

When the strip is a yard long, bind off two 
stitches and drop one, repeating across the 
row, and the drop stitch will run down to 
the chain making the strip openwork in 
design. 

Knitted sack. (For a small child.) This is 
made of blue, or any color preferred, and 
white saxony, and is sewed together under the 
arms and along the sleeves. 

Cast on 68 stitches with the white wool for 
the back and knit till there are 36 ridges. 
(Two rows across make one ridge.) 

At each side of this piece (which will be at 
each end of the needle), cast on 26 stitches, 
making 120 in all, and knit until there are 20 
more ridges. 

234 



NEEDLEWORK 

Knit 50 stitches and slip off on a cord; bind 
off 20 stitches for the neck; knit the remain- 
ing fifty stitches on the needle. (This is to be 
half of the front.) 

Knit the 50 stitches for 5 ridges, cast on 7 
stitches at each end of the needle and knit 16 
ridges. (There ought to be 64 stitches on the 
needle.) 

Bind off 30 stitches for the sleeve, knit 34 
ridges for the rest of the front, and bind off 
loosely for the bottom. 

Knit the 50 stitches remaining in the same 
manner for the other front. 

Finish the sleeves at the bottom like the 
sack. If crochet is used, make the scallop 
after the sleeve is sewed up. If a knitted fin- 
ish or border is preferred, pick up the stitches 
across the bottom of the sleeve and with the 
blue knit 6 ridges, sewing up the garment 
after this is done. 

A knitted border (with fitted corners, for 
above sack). Pick up across the bottom all 
the stitches, using the color, and knit across 
once plain. 

At the beginning of the needle, knit 2, 
235 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

thread over twice, narrow; knit plain till 
within 3 of the end of the needle; thread over 
twice, narrow, knit 1. 

Second row. Knit 3, purl 1, knit plain all 
but the last two; purl 1, knit 1. 

Knit for six ridges, then bind off all the 
stitches. 

The two sides of the front are knit in color 
and in the same manner, and the slanting 
corners sewed together to finish. 

For the neck, take up the stitches across 
both neck and border with the colored yarn 
and knit one row plain. 

Knit 7, thread over twice; narrow and knit 
5, thread over twice; narrow and knit 5, 
and repeat across the row. 

Knit back plain and drop the last half of 
thread over twice, making it into one loose 
stitch or hole for ribbon later. 

Knit across plain. 

Knit 2, thread over twice, narrow; knit 
plain till 3 stitches are on the left-hand needle; 
thread over twice, narrow, knit one. 

Knit 3, purl 1, knit plain all but two; then 
purl 1, knit 1. 



NEEDLEWORK 

Knit till there are six ridges, and bind off. 
Sew the slanting corners as before. 

Finish the edge with a simple crocheted 
scallop and run ribbon through the holes at 
the neck. 

Knit rug. (Coarse steel needles and No. 
8 White Cotton.) Ravel out tapestry carpet, 
the ravelings to be about two inches long. 

Cast on forty stitches and knit across plain. 

Take a piece of raveling, knit it into the 
stitch by placing it over the needle after it is 
inserted into the stitch, then bring cotton over 
needle and draw through the stitch raveling 
and cotton together. 

This may be knit any length. Forty 
stitches will make a strip a quarter of a yard 
wide. 

When finished, trim off evenly with sharp 
scissors. 

Pieces of silk, two inches long and one inch 
wide, may be used in place of ravelings. 

Quilt, laurel leaf pattern. (A very old 
design.) This is knit in squares and sewed 
together, making the four leaves meet. 

First row. Cast on 3 stitches. 
237 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Second row. Thread over, knit 3. 

Third row. Thread over, knit 4. 

Fourth row. Thread over, knit 5. 

Fifth row. There should be six stitches 
ready. Thread over, knit 1, purl 3, knit 2. 

Sixth row. Thread over, knit 2; thread 
over, knit 3; thread over, knit 2. 

Seventh row. Thread over, knit 2; purl 
5, knit 3. 

Eighth row. Thread over, knit 3; thread 
over, knit 5; thread over, knit 3. 

Ninth row. Thread over, knit 3; purl 7, 
knit 4. 

Tenth row. Thread over, knit 4; thread 
over, knit 7; thread over, knit 4. 

Eleventh row. Thread over, knit 4; purl 
9, knit 5. 

Twelfth row. Thread over, knit across 
needle plain. 

Thirteenth row. Thread over, knit 5; 
purl 9, knit 6. 

Fourteenth row. Thread over, and knit 
across plain. 

Fifteenth row. Thread over, knit 6 ; purl 
9, knit 7. 

238 



NEEDLEWORK 

Sixteenth row. Thread over, knit across 
plain. 

Seventeenth row. Thread over, knit 7; 
purl 9, knit 8. 

Eighteenth row. Thread over, knit plain. 

Nineteenth row. Thread over, knit 8; 
purl 9, knit 9. 

Twentieth row. Thread over, knit plain. 

Twenty-first row. Thread over, knit 9; 
purl 9, knit 10. 

Twenty-second row. Thread over, knit 
10; slip 1, knit 1, pass the slipped stitch over, 
knit 5, knit 2 together, knit 10. 

Twenty-third row. Thread over, knit 10; 
purl 7, knit 11. 

Twenty-fourth row. Thread over, knit 
11; slip 1, knit 1, pass the slipped stitch over; 
knit 3, knit 2 together, knit 11. 

Twenty-fifth row. Thread over, knit 11; 
purl 5, knit 12. 

Twenty-sixth row. Thread over, knit 12; 
slip 1, knit 1 and pass the slip stitch over; knit 
1, knit 2 together, knit 12. 

Twenty-seventh row. Thread over, knit 
12; purl 3, knit 13. 

239 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Twenty-eighth row. - - Thread over, knit 
13; slip l,knit 2 together, pass the slip stitch 
over and knit 13. This finishes the leaf, and 
there should be 28 stitches on the needle. 
The other half of the square is made up of 
ribs decreasing at the beginning of each row. 

Twenty-ninth row. Narrow or decrease 
by knitting 2 together, then purl across. 

Thirtieth row. Narrow and knit plain. 

Thirty-first row. Narrow and purl. 

Thirty-second row. Narrow and purl. 

Thirty-third row. Narrow and knit 
plain. 

(Notice 29, 30, and 31, make a ridge.) 

Thirty-fourth row. Narrow and purl. 

(Notice 32, 33, and 34 make a ridge.) 

Repeat, narrowing all the time, till there is 
only one stitch. 

There will be three ridges, each narrowing 
to a point. 

When the squares are sewed together (on 
the right side) the four leaves will diverge 
from the same centre, and as the quilt is fin- 
ished the ribs at the corners will make a 
square of ribs. 

240 



NEEDLEWORK 

Some of the following knitting directions 
are very old and not even named. 

Block design. (The stitches must be divis- 
ible by 4.) Knit 4, purl 4, for four rows; then 
reverse and purl 4 on knit 4, knit 4 on purl 4; 
reverse in this way every fifth row. 

An experienced knitter may vary this by 
using more or fewer stitches in the block with 
more or fewer rows. 

Moss stitch. (Also called Rough-and- 
Ready.) Knit 1, purl 1; in next row across 
purl 1, knit 1, always being careful to purl the 
knit stitch and knit the purl stitch. 

Design No. 1. (Often found in old pieces of 
knitting.) Cast on any number of stitches 
divisible by 4 and 1 over. 

First row. Knit across plain. 

Second row. Knit 1, purl 3 together, all 
across the needle ending in knit 1. 

Third row. Knit 1, on next stitch make 
3 by knitting 1, purl 1, knit 1; knit 1, make 3 
all across the needle. 

Fourth row. Knit across plain. 

Fifth row. Purl 3 together, knit 1, and 
so on across; end in knit 2. 
241 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Sixth row. Knit 2, make 3 on next stitch, 
knit 1, make 3, and so on across row. 

Seventh row. Knit across plain. 

Eighth row. Repeat from 2nd row, knit 
1, purl 3 together and so on. 

Design No. 2. Cast on any number of 
stitches and knit across plain. 

First row. Thread over, knit 2 together, 
knit 1; thread over, knit 2 together, knit 1; 
and so on, always ending in knitting 2 to- 
gether. Every row is alike, always same two 
together and same one plain. 

Design No. 3. (Good for a sweater.) 

First row. Knit 1, purl 1, knit 2 to- 
gether, repeat across the row. 

Second row. Purl across. 

Third row. Knit 2, purl 2, repeat. 

Fourth row. Purl across. 

This completes the pattern. Repeat, start- 
ing at first row. 

Design No. 4- (Available for a sweater.) 

First row. Knit plain across the row. 

Second row. Purl across. 

Third row. Knit 2 together, thread over, 
knit 2 together, and knit last stitch plain. 
242 



NEEDLEWORK 

Fourth row. Knit across plain. 

Fifth row. Knit across plain. 

Sixth row. Purl across. 

Repeat from 1st row, six rows completes 
the pattern. 

Design No. 5. (Simple design or stitch for a 
sweater.) Knit 3, purl 1, repeat across end- 
ing with knit 1. Knit this over and over till 
the work is done. 

Design No. 6. (For sweater.) 

First row. Purl 2, knit 1, purl 1, knit 1, 
purl 1, knit 1, purl 1 across row. 

Second row. Knit 2, purl 1, knit 2, purl 1, 
then knit 1, purl 1 across row, ending with 
purl 2. 

Third row. Like the first. 

Fourth row. Like the second and so on. 

Sweater. (Use No. 3 or 4 bone needles, and 
No. 12 steel.) One who knows how to knit 
may easily knit a sweater using measurements, 
and varying number of stitches according to 
size desired. 

Measure the length of back, width between 
shoulders, length of front from top of shoulder 
to under arm, neck and wrist. 
243 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Cast on as many stitches as seems advis- 
able; seventy stitches will make one for thirty- 
six inch bust measure. 

Knit one or two inches plain garter stitch for 
a border, using steel needles, then with bone 
needles begin any pattern chosen. Knit till 
the desired length from bottom of sweater to 
under arm, bind off at each end of the needle 
(for under arm), five for a small sweater, and 
eight for a larger one. 

Every other row, narrow at each end of the 
needle till five more for a small sweater, and 
eight for a larger, have been taken off at each 
end of the needle, the number of stitches be- 
ing reduced ten or sixteen according to size. 

Continue without narrowing till back is 
required length from neck to bottom of 
sweater. 

Divide the stitches for the neck and shoul- 
ders. Knit the first twenty -five for a small 
sweater and thirty for a large one; slip these 
on to a cord. Bind off a certain number for 
neck in centre of back, being careful not to 
have too large a number or the neck will be 
loose. The number of stitches left on the 
244 



NEEDLEWORK 

needle to knit should be equal to those taken 
off on the cord so that the two front sides will 
be alike. 

Knit plain for one inch, then widen every 
third row at the neck side till there are more 
stitches on the needle twenty more stitches 
for a small sweater and twenty-four for a 
large one. 

Knit three inches more, increasing at the 
beginning of each row till eight for a small 
sweater, and twelve for a larger sweater, have 
been added. 

Knit without widening till the work meas- 
ures four inches for a small sweater and seven 
inches for a larger one, from shoulder to under 
arm. On the side away from the neck cast on 
seven stitches for a small sweater, twelve 
for a larger sweater ; this extends under the 
arm and makes the width of the front. 

Knit till front is long as back without bor- 
der, then knit garter stitch the same width as 
the back. 

Sew up under the arms. 

The border is not necessary; one can begin 
the pattern at once when starting sweater. 
245 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Take stitches from the cord on to the nee- 
dle, and knit the second front like the first. 

Sleeves. Two directions are given, the 
sleeves always beginning at the top. 

No. 1. Cast on sixty stitches, increase two 
at the beginning of each row till there are 
one hundred. 

Knit this number for one inch; then narrow 
at each end of the needle every fourth row till 
there are sixty remaining. 

Knit and do not narrow again till the inside 
seam is the required length. 

Change to steel needles and knit garter 
stitch to match the border; or, if no border is 
used, knit one, purl one, for three inches, 
which will make a close cuff. 

No. 2. Cast on forty-six stitches, start pat- 
tern at once. At each end of the needle cast 
on three stitches every row till there are 
eighty-eight stitches on the needle. 

Knit pattern and do not increase for three 
inches; then narrow one stitch at each end of 
the needle every fifth row till there are forty- 
six stitches. Knit till the sleeve is the required 
length. 

246 



NEEDLEWORK 

The cuff is made by using the steel needles 
and either knitting garter stitch or seaming. 

Border. A border is made by casting on the 
steel needles twelve stitches, and knitting 
garter stitch. For a band up the front, it 
should be sewed on from the edge of the right- 
hand front round the neck and down the other 
side. It may be of the same color as the 
sweater or of a contrasting color. 

Button-holes may be made at regular inter- 
vals in this border by binding off four stitches 
in the middle of the needle and on the next 
row, casting the four stitches on again. 

Pockets and collars are knitted separate 
and sewed on the sweater, the pockets always 
the same color as the sweater. 

Cast on as many stitches for the collar as 
the neck requires, always allowing an inch 
more than the neck really measures. Knit 
garter stitch or seam till the width desired. 

SMOCKING 

When in childhood we saw in the picture 
books the illustrations of how "Simple Simon 
met a Pieman," we little thought that the 
247 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

frocks on the men were the smock-frocks worn 
at one time quite generally by the English 
countryman, in the fields, gardens and shops. 

These frocks were made by the farmers' 
wives, of jean, -or strong holland, which is a 
kind of coarse linen. A well-to-do farmer 
would wear a colored smock during the week, 
and a more elaborate white one on Sunday. 
The bodies and sleeves were gathered and 
stitched in wonderful designs, their beauty 
depending on the ingenuity and ambition of 
the needlewoman. The skirt was left loose 
and hanging. It is a matter of regret that the 
smock-frock has now almost disappeared, for 
it was most picturesque. Possibly in some re- 
mote English village one might find an old 
man still clinging to his smock, but it is quite 
doubtful. Within a few years,, interested per- 
sons have tried to revive the custom and in- 
dustry in some of the shires, but with poor 
success. 

Smocking is the name given by the smock 

to this special type of embroidery. It is the 

application of a sewing stitch which catches 

the folds or tiny pleats together, and becomes 

248 



NEEDLEWORK 

decorative by varying the stitch to make'dif- 
ferent designs, and by using colored threads. 
This embroidery is much used in England on 
children's dresses, and often on ladies' waists 
and gowns. 

It is most essential in smocking to have the 
gathering threads which lay the pleats per- 
fectly straight, and to regulate the distance of 
the stitches one from the other accurately. 
The whole beauty of the work depends upon 
the evenness of the gathering. One can buy a 
sheet of impression paper with dots to indi- 
cate the distance between the stitches and the 
gathering threads; but with patience one can 
manage very well with a tape measure, using a 
pencil on white cloth, or chalk on silk and 
woolen fabrics. 

Lay the measure in a straight line across 
the material to be smocked, and make a dot 
at every quarter of an inch on the measure. 
Make as many of these dotted lines half an 
inch apart as the depth of the yoke will re- 
quire, which is about fifteen. It always helps 
in smocking if a few more threads are 
gathered than are really needed. 
249 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Pass the needle from right to left in at one 
dot and out between the dots, or, if the ma- 
terial is very thin, the needle may go in at one 
dot and out at another, using a coarse basting 
thread. 

When all the rows of dots have been used, 
pull up the threads (not too tightly, and very 
carefully), and adjust the gathers evenly. 
Fasten the threads around a pin, or by tying 
two together, and the work is ready. 

Always in smocking the worker begins at 
the left and works toward the right, each 
pleat being taken up by the needle separately. 

The outline stitch. This is the simplest 
stitch for smocking, not unlike the outline 
stitch in embroidery, and might well be called 
the smocking stitch, since all the other stitches 
are varying adaptations of this simple one. 

Thread the needle and tie a knot in the silk 
or whatever is used. Begin at the upper left- 
hand corner; bring the needle out from the 
back at the side of the first pleat, insert the 
needle from right to left on this pleat, keeping 
the silk above the needle; draw the thread 
out to its full extent, take up the next pleat 
250 



NEEDLEWORK 

the same way, and so on, always bringing the 
needle out below the stitch. 

If the gathering threads are straight, one 
can follow them in working, and so keep the 
smocking lines straight, or as a guide (which 
some may find helpful), baste a dark thread 
in a straight line, lightly catching it to occa- 
sional pleats, and work under or over this line 
as seems best and easiest. 

Rope stitch is made by having the thread 
above the needle on one pleat, and below the 
needle on the next pleat, and so on. 

To form diamonds, make three outline 
stitches, passing the needle through each 
pleat, each stitch a little above the other in 
a slanting line, then make three downward 
stitches, trying to keep the same slant. Con- 
tinue this across the work, and there will be a 
row of half diamonds; then in the next row 
make three downward stitches and three up- 
ward, and so complete the diamond. 

When the smocking stitches are done to 

the required depth, pull out the gathering 

threads, which are basting threads, and are 

no longer required to keep the pleats in place. 

251 



HOUSEKEEPER'S HANDY BOOK 

Rope silk, coarse linen thread, knitting 
silk, or silkatine can be used, the choice de- 
pending on the taste of the needlewoman, and 
the cloth to be smocked. 

Smocked blouse, or frock, for child. Of ma- 
terial eighteen inches wide, take two straight 
widths for the front, two for the back, and 
two for each sleeve. The front has a seam 
down the middle. Join the sleeve section to 
the front width and then to the back width 
for eight or ten inches, to make the neck and 
the shoulder seams, the length depending on 
the size of the wearer. 

The blouse or frock is now ready to gather 
for the smocking. After the gathering has 
been done, draw up the first few runs to fit the 
neck; smock a row or two, then the rest of the 
gathers can be adjusted to the figure or to a 
pattern that fits. Measure on the child, or on 
a pattern that fits, to ascertain correct sleeve 
length. When the smocking is completed, 
slip the garment on the child, and turn up 
around the bottom to desired length. 

THE END 



INDEX 



INDEX 



Air, fresh, 2; night, 3; pure, 20. 
Acid fruits, sugar used, 109. 
Ants, 25. 
Alligator pear, 70; as a dessert, 

45. 

Apple and date salad, 57. 
Apple and pomelo salad, 57. 
Apple ginger, 114. 
Apples, baked, 151. 
Apples and onions, baked, 106. 
Artichokes, 102 ; (Jerusalem), 

102. 
Asparagus salad, 57. 

Bag for buttons, 212. 
Baked-bean sandwich (1), (2), 75. 
Baked egg-plant, 104. 
Banana salad (1), 57; (2), 58. 
Banana sandwich, 75. 
Bananas, baked, 101; scalloped, 

102. 

Barberries and raisins, 117. 
Barley sugar, 129. 
Beach-plum jelly, 113. 
Bed-bugs, 28. 

Beef and green-pea salad, 58. 
Beef sandwich, 75. 
Beet salad, 58. 
Beets, boiled with a sauce, 101 ; 

pickled, 127. 
Bites, 193. 
Black eye, 194. 
Bleaching linen, 165. 
Bluing, cheap, 162; easily made, 

163. 
Boiled salad dressing (1), 56; (2), 

very simple, 56. 
Boiling meat, 149. 



Boiling over, 149. 

Bread and cheese, baked, 93. 

Bread cutting, 155. 

Bread, from oven, 151. 

Bread for sandwich, 74. 

Bread-mixers, 11. 

Brown and white bread sand- 
wich, 76. 

Brown bread and cheese sand- 
wich, 76. 

Brown bread and water-cress 
sandwich, 76. 

Butter.keeping, without ice,156. 

Bunions, 190. 

Burns, 193. 

Burnt food, 153. 

Burnt saucepan, care of, 153. 

Buttermilk, 182. 

Butterscotch (1), (2), (3), 130. 

Butter taffy, 138. 

Buying canned goods, 155. 

Cabbage, baked, 106; French 
style, 43 ; pickled, 127; salad, 
59; salad with walnut meats, 
59. 

Cake, cheese (English), 46; Eng- 
lish tea, 48 ; cheese (German), 
46 ; (German layer), 47 ; Swed- 
ish, 48. 

Cake-mixers, 11. 
Cakes, oyster plant, 100. 
Calloused feet, 189. 
Candy, cooked, 74, 129. 
Baked peanut (1), (2), 135. 
Barley sugar (English), 129. 
Butterscotch (1), (2), (3), 130. 
Butter taffy, 138. 



255 



INDEX 



Candied fruit, 141. 

Candied orange andgrapef ruit 
rind, 141. 

Caramel pop-corn, 139. 

Checkermints, 137. 

Chocolate caramels, 132. 

Cocoanut drops (1), (2), 131. 

Creamy molasses candy, 134. 

Cream peppermints, 136. 

Cream squares, 135. 

Crystallized mint, 140. 

Fruit candy, 139. 

Fruit, frosted, 140. 

Fruit glace, 141. 

Fudge, 133. 

Honey candy, 135. 

Horehound candy (1), (2), 140. 

Maple candy, 132. 

Maple caramels, 133. 

Maple cream walnuts, 132. 

Marshmallow candy, 138. 

Molasses candy (1), (2), 133. 

Molasses taffy, 134. 

Opera creams, 135. 

Peanut candy (1), 13Q; (2), 131. 

Peanut brittle, 134. 

Peppermints, 137. 

Pop-corn balls, 139; sugared, 
138. 

Pralines, 136. 

Puffed rice brittle, 137. 

Simple fudge, 133. 

Sour-cream candy, 132. 
Candy, uncooked, 142. 

Cream dates, 143. 

French cream candy, 144. 

Fruit paste, 143. 

Mixed mints, 143. 

Orange drops, 143. 

Providence, 143. 

Turkish figs, 142. 

Walnut cream, 144. 
Carbolic acid, 22. 
Care of ice-chest, 23. 
Carrots, boiled, 100; 

French style, 41; fried, 100. 



Casserole cooking, 13. 
Catsup, plum and grape, 121. 
Cauliflower, baked, 106; salad, 

60. 

Celery, 152. 
Cellar, 6, 21. 
Chafing-dish candies, 144. 

Chocolate marshmallow fudge, 
144. 

Fudge, 146. 

Nicest candy, 147. 

Nut candy, 146. 

Peanut candy, 146. 

Pecan candy, 145. 

Taffy, 146. 

Vanilla caramels, 145. 

Walnut candy, 145. 
Cheese and pimento salad, 62. 
Cheese fondu, 92. 
Checkermints, 137. 
Cherry salad, 60. 
Chestnuts, 85 ; boiled, 43 ; 

mashed, 107. 
Chestnut salad, 62; sandwich, 

77. 
Chicken and cheese sandwich, 

77. 
Chicken salad, 60; sandwich, 

76. 
Chicken, stewed, Spanish style, 

35. 

Chilblains, 191. 
Child's frock, smocked, 252. 
Chocolate caramels, 132. 
Chocolate sandwich (sweet), 77. 
Choking, 194. 
Chutney, Bengal, 47. 
Cider-apple, 115. 
Cleanliness and health, 1. 
Cleanliness in the kitchen, 8. 
Cleanser, cooking-soda, 9. 
Clothes freezing, 167. 
Cocoanut sandwich (sweet), 77. 
Cockroaches, 26. 
Cocoanut drops (1), (2), 131. 
Coffee, 152. 



256 



INDEX 



Coffee on fish, 155. 

Cold, 195. 

Cold cream, 181. 

Cold-sores, 183. 

Collars and yokes, cutting, 212. 

Combinations of fruits, 109. 

Conserve, currant, 120; grape, 

120; rhubarb, 120. 
Cooking by gas, 19. 
Cooking-soda as a cleanser, 8. 
Copperas, solution of, 22. 
Copperware cleaned, 154. 
Corn, 84; fritters, 94; (canned) 
fritters, 95; scalloped, 95; 
oysters, 94 ; pie, 94. 
Corns, 191. 
Cosmetic, 181. 
Cough, 194. 
Covers for frying, 140. 
Cracked lips, 183. 
Cramps, 195. 

Cream candy (French), 144. 
Cream cheese salad (1),61 ; (2),62. 
Cream peppermints, 136. 
Cream salad dressing, 55. 
Cream sandwich, 77. 
Cream squares, 135. 
Cream, walnut, 144. 
Creams (French), 138. 
Crochet 

Cotton and needles, 222. 

Edge crocheted on goods, 224. 

Edge of doily, 225. 

Lace, 221. 

Ladder insertion, 227. 

Narrow edge, 223. 

Narrow insertion, 226. 

Rose, 229. 

Rug, 231. 

Shawl, 230. 

Simple edge, 223. 

Terms used, 222. 

Wider insertion, 228. 
Croup, 195. 

Cucumber, baked, 105; boiled, 
105; jelly salad, 62; lotion, 



182; pickle (1), 125; (2), 126; 
salad, 62 ; (1), (2), 78 ; sweet 
pickle, 124 ; stuffed, 40. 

Cups of tomatoes, 103. 

Curdling of mayonnaise pre- 
vented, 53. 

Curdling milk, 151. 

Currant jelly sandwich (1), (2), 
78. 

Currants, spiced, 122. 

Curried potatoes, 98; tomato, 
103. 

Dates, creamed, 143. 
Diarrhoea, 196. 
Discipline, kitchen, 9. 
Disinfectants, 22. 

Carbolic acid, 22. 

Copperas, solution of, 22. 

Potassium permanganate, 22. 

Sal-soda, solution of, 22. 
Dish for supper, 96. 
Dishes sterilized, 9. 
Disinfection, 29. 
Double chin, 191. 

Egg and cheese sandwich, 

79. 

Egg-plant, baked, 44. 
Egg salad, 63. 
Egg sandwich, 79. 
Eggs, beating, 152. 
Eggs scrambled with asparagus, 

95. 

Eggs served daintily, 96. 
Eggs (Swiss), 38. 
Electricity, use of, 18. 
Electric utensils, 17. 

Chafing-dish, 17. 

Flatiron, 17. 

Heating-pad, 17. 

Toaster, 17. 

Water-heater, 17. 
Emergencies, 193. 

Bites, 193. 

Black eye, 194. 



257 



INDEX 



Burns, 193. 

Choking, 194. 

Cold, 195. 

Cough, 194. 

Cramps, 165. 

Croup, 195. 

Diarrhoea, 196. 

Earache, 196. 

Fainting, 196. 

Fits, 196. 

Flaxseed tea, 194. 

Hiccough, 197. 

Hoarseness, 195. 

Hysteria, 197. 

Indigestion, 198. 

Ivy poisoning, 197. 

Mustard plaster, 198. 

Neuralgia, 199. 

Nose-bleed, 199. 

Periods of infection, 202. 

Poisons, 199. 

Quarantine, length of, 203. 

Shock, 199. 

Sore finger, 200. 

Sore throat, 200. 

Sprains, 200. 

Unconsciousness, 200. 

Vomiting, 201. 
' Wounds, 201. 
Experiment stations, 11. 

Faded goods, bleached, 170. 
Faded colors brightened, 1 

prevented, 168. 
Fainting, 196. 
Feet, care of, 189. 
Fever blisters, 183. 
Figs, Turkish, 142. 
Fig sandwich (sweet), 79. 
Tireless cooker, 13. 
Fireless cooking, 16. 
Fish salad (1), 63 ; (2) 64. 
Fits, 196. 
Flaxseed tea, 194. 
Flies, 25. 
Flushing traps and pipes, 6. 



Foreign Cooking, 30. 
Aguacate avoca, or alligator 

pear salad (Mexican), 45. 
Apple or apricot soup, 30. 
Baccalao & la peruana, 31. 
Baked egg-plant (French), 

44. 

Bengal chutney, 47. 
Brown sauce for Swedish 

meat-balls, 32. 
Cabbage & la fransaise, 43. 
Cafeparfait (French), 49. 
Carrots (French), 41. 
Cheese cakes (English), 46; 

(German), 46. 
Chocolate frosting for German 

layer cake, 47. 
Corn pie (Cuban), 43. 
Cream sauce for cabbage, 43. 
Creole sweet potatoes (Cuban), 

42. 

East Indian mustard, 49. 
English plum pudding, 48. 
English tea cake, Bermuda, 

48. 

French stuffed cucumbers, 40. 
Frijoles (Mexican), 34. 
Frijole soup, 35. 
fruit soups, 30. 
Apple soup, 30. 
Apricot soup, 30. 
Grape soup, 30. 
Strawberry soup, 30. 
Gullasch (Hungarian), So. 
Honey-locust fritters (French), 

44. 

Italian macaroni (1), (2), 42. 
Italian sauce for beef, 34. 
Kabobs (Turkish), 33. 
Mexican stuffed peppers (1), 

(2), 37. 
Mousse, 49. 
Pischinger torte (German 

layer cake), 47. 
Rice for Russian pilaf, 33. 
Russian pilaf, 32. 

258 



INDEX 



Scotch shortbread, 45. 

Sholah pullow for chafing- 
dish, 38. 

Sholah pullow (East Indian), 
38. 

Spaghetti a 1'Italienne, 41. 

Spinach fritters (French), 44. 

Stewed chicken (Spanish), 35. 

String beans (German), 39. 

Spanish chestnuts, 43. 

Spanish omelet, 39. 

Spanish onion, 39. 

Swedish cake, 48. 

Swedish meat-balls, 31. 

Swedish meat-balls, sauce for, 
32. 

Swedish rolls, 45. 

Swedish salt fish, 31. 

Swiss eggs, 38. 

Tomato sauce for Spanish 
chicken stew, 35. 

Yorkshire pudding, English, 

35. 

French creams, 138. 
French dressing, 56. 
Fresh air, 2. 
Fritters, honey-locust (sweet), 

44 ; spinach, 44. 
Frosting, chocolate, for German 

layer cake, 47. 
Fruit, advice about, 108. 

Candied, 141. 

Candy, 139. 

Canned, uncooked, 111. 

Combinations, 109. 

Frosted, 140. 

Glace, 141. 

Hard, 108. 

Jars, care of, 154. 

Paste, 143. 

Salad for desert (1), (2), 64. 

Spiced, 122. 
Fruits, acid, 109. 
Frying in meal, 150. 
Fudge, 146; cooked, 133; marsh- 
mallow, 144. 



Gas, use of, 18. 
Gas 

Cooking by, 19. 

Irons, 17. 

Saving, 19. 

Stoves (1), 12; (2), 18. 
General rule, for jelly, 110; for 

marmalade, 110. 
Ginger sandwich, 79. 
Goods bleached, 170. 
Gown, 206. 

Graham bread sandwich, 79. 
Grape catsup, 121 ; conserve, 120 ; 
salad (1) for dessert, 65; (2), 
(3), 65. 

Grapes, spiced, 122. 
Green-pea salad, 58. 
Griddle cakes, 151. 

Hair, care of, 187. 
Hands, rough, 188. 
Hard fruit, 108. 
Health, 1. 

Helps in sewing, 213. 
Hints to the cook, 148. 

Baking apples, 151. 

Baking-powder, 156. 

Beating eggs, 152. 

Boiling meat, 149. 

Buying canned fruits and 
meats, 155. 

Care of burnt saucepan, 153. 

Care of fruit jars, 154. 

Care of stove, 148. 

Care of vinegar, 155. 

Celery, 152. 

Clarifying lard, 153. 

Cleaning copperware, 154. 

Cleaning kettles, 153. 

Cleaning pots and pans, 154. 

Cleaning sink drain, 154. 

Coffee, 152. 

Cutting n-ew bread, 155. 

Curdling milk, 151. 

Frying in meal, 150. 

Heat in the oven, 148. 



259 



INDEX 



Measuring butter, 151. 

Measuring without scales, 160. 

Meat and vegetables served 
together, 157. 

Perforated covers for frying- 
pan, 140. 

Relishes to serve, 159. 

Removing bread from oven, 
151. 

Salt in double boiler, 149. 

Soft custard, 151. 

Substitute for cream, 155. 

Table of weights and meas- 
ures, 159. 

Time-table for vegetables, 87. 

To clean nickel, 148. 

To improve griddle cakes, 
151. 

To keep milk sweet, 151. 

To peel tomatoes, 152. 

To prevent boiling over, 149. 

To soften tough meat, 150. 

To sterilize milk, 152. 

Treatment of vegetables, 152. 

Vinegar used, 150. 

Vinegar used with eggs, 150. 

Vinegar used with fish, 150. 

Washing glasses, 154. 

When food burns, 153. 

Zinc cleaned, 148. 
Hoarseness, 195. 
Hollow neck, 192. 
Home-made 

Baking-powder, 156. 

Bluing, 162. 

Candy, cooked, 129. 

Jasmine water, 184. 

Javelle water, 162. 

Lavender water, 185. 

Soap, 161. 

Toilet water, 184. 

Towels, 210. 

Washing-fluid, 161. 
Home sanitation, 20. 
Honey candy, 135. 
Horehound candy (1), (2), 140. 



House, opening, 29. 
Hysteria, 197. 

Ice-chest, 7; care of, 23. 
Ice-cream, mousse, 49. 
Improved cooker, 15. 
Indigestion, 198. 
Infection, periods of, 202. 
Insomnia, 192. 
Ironing embroidery, 171. 
Ironing silk or pongee, 170. 
Irons, care of, 170. 
Irons, gas, 17. 
Ivy poisoning, 197. 

Jam 

Blackberry, 112. 

Date, 117. 

Gooseberry, 113. 

Green-grape, 115. 

Peach, 118. 

Strawberry, 111. 
Jelly 

Amber, 116. 

Apple, 114 

Beach-plum, 113. 

Crab-apple, 113. 

Currant, red, black, or white, 
112. 

Grape, 116. 

Green-apple, 114. 

Green-grape, 114. 

Quince, 119. 

Keeping butter, 157. 
Keeping milk, 15. 
Kettles cleaned, 153. 
Kimono, 205. 
Kitchen discipline, 9. 
Kitchen sink, 21. 
Knitting, 232. 

Balls, 233. 

Blanket, 234. 

Designs unnamed, 241. 

Old designs 
No. 1, 241. 



260 



INDEX 



No. 2, 242. 

No. 3, 242. 

No. 4, 243. 

No. 5, 243. 

No. 6, 243. 
Purse, 232. 

Quilt, laurel leaf, 237. 
Rug, 237. 
Sack, 234. 
Sweater, 243. 
Sweater border, 247. 
Sweater sleeves, 246. 
Terms used, 233. 
Wristers, 233. 

Lard, clarified, 153. 
Laundry helps, 161. 
Bleaching linen, 165. 
Bluing easily made, 163. 
Cheap bluing, 162. 
Colors running, 171. 
German washing-fluid, 161. 
Irons, care of, 170. 
Ironing embroidery, 171. 
Ironing silk and pongee, 170. 
Home-made bluing, 162. 
Home-made soap, 161. 
Javelle water, 162. 
Liquid soda, 162. 
Soap solution, 162. 
"Whitening curtains, 165. 
Whitening muslin yellow with 

age, 165. 

Whitening yellow clothes, 165. 
Stains, 171. 

Acid, 178. 

Blood, 176. 

Bluing spots, 177. 

Chocolate, 172. 

Coffee, 172. 

Fruit, 174. 

Grass, 174. 

Iodine, 177. 

Ink, 173. 

Ink on carpet, 174. 

Iron rust, 178. 



Leather, 177. 

Machine oil, 176. 

Mattress, 180. 

Mildew, 178. 

Mud, 180. 

Obstinate, 172. 

Old paint, 176. 

Paint stains, 175. 

Paint on dress, 175. 

Pitch, wheel grease, or tar, 

177. 

Printer's ink, 174. 
Scorched, 177. 
Setting stains, 172. 
Soot or oil on carpet, 179. 
Spots on wall paper, 176. 
Tea, 172. 

Varnish and paint, 175. 
Starch, 164. 

Starching thin goods, 164. 
To bleach faded muslins, 170. 
To brighten faded colors, 169. 
To prevent fading, 168. 
To prevent colors running, 168. 
To prevent clothes freezing, 

167. 

Washing blankets, 166. 
Washing flannels, 167. 
Washing new stockings, 167. 
Washing pongee silk, 170. 
Washing silk garments, 170. 
Washing a sweater, 166. 
Lemon honey sandwich (sweet), 

80. 
Lentils baked, 96; boiled, 96; 

stewed, 94. 
Lettuce, egg, and cheese salad, 

66. 

Lettuce, prepared for salads, 52. 
Lettuce sandwich, 79. 
Lobster and egg salad, 66. 
Lobster salad, 66. 



Macaroni (Italian) (1), (2), 42. 
Machines for washing, 12. 
Making a tireless cooker, 14. 



261 



INDEX 



Maple candy, 132. 
Maple caramels, 133. 
Maple cream walnuts, 132. 
Marmalade, 110. 

Orange (1), 115; (2), 116. 

Quince, 118. 

Marshmallow candy, 138. 
Marshmallow, chocolate, fudge, 

144. 

Marshmallow sandwich, 80. 
Mayonnaise (1), 53 ; (2), 54. 

Curdling, remedied, 53. 

Improved, 55. 

Simple, 52. 
Measuring, 160. 
Measuring butter, 151. 
Meat-balls, Swedish, 31. 
Melon salad, 67. 
Men's apron, 209. 
Mexican frijoles, 34. 
Mildew, 178. 
Milk sterilized, 152. 
Mint, crystallized, 140. 
Mints, mixed, 143. 
Molasses candy (1), (2), 133. 
Molasses creamy candy, 134. 
Molasses taffy, 134. 
Mosquitoes, 2<J. 
Moths and buffalo-bugs, 27. 
Motors, 12. 

Mushrooms, baked, 107. 
Mushroom salad, 66. 
Mustard bath, 192. 
Mustard, East Indian relish, 49. 
Mustard plaster, 198. 

Nail-biting, 184. 
Nails, ingrowing, 190. 
Nasturtium salad, 67. 
Needlework, and other hand- 
work, 204. 
Button-bag, 212. 
Crochet 

Cotton and needles, 222. 
Edge crocheted on goods, 
224. 



Edge of doily, 225. 

Insertion (wider), 228. 

Irish lace, 221. 

Ladder insertion, 227. 

Narrow edge, 223. 

Narrow insertion, 226. 

Rose, 229. 

Rug, 231. 

Shawl, 230. 

Simple edge, 223. 

Stitches explained, 222. 
Cutting collars and yokes, 212. 
Embroidery 

Big-needle stitch, 216. 

Bulgarian stitch, 215. 

Bullion or roll stitch, 220. 

Buttonhole stitch, 218. 

Chain stitch, 215. 

Couching, 221. 

Cross-stitch, 214. 

Darning stitch, 220. 

Feather stitch, 219. 

French knots, 219. 

Herring-bone stitch, 217. 

Ladder stitch, 218. 

Lazy daisy or bird's-eye 
stitch, 220. 

Outline stitch, 215. 

Satin stitch, 221. 
Gown, 206. 

Home-made towels, 210. 
Japanese kimono, 205. 
Knitting, 282. 

Balls, 233. 

Blanket, 234. 

Border of sweater, 247. 

Moss stitch, 241. 

Old designs, 241. 

Purse, 232. 

Quilt, laurel leaf, 237. 

Rug, 237. 

Sack, 234. 

Sleeves for sweater, 246. 

Stitches explained, 232. 

Sweater, 243. 

Wristers, 233. 



262 



INDEX 



Nightdress by diagram, 207. 

Nightingale, 204. 

Pin-cushion, 210. 

Pique" hat, 208. 

Scrap-bag, 211. 

Sewing helps, 213. 

Sewing in sleeves, 212. 

Smock, 248. 

Smocked frock, 252. 

Smocking, 248. 

Smocking in diamonds, 251. 

Smocking stitches, 250. 

Smocking, preparing for, 249. 

Work-apron for men, 209. 

Work-bag, 211. 
Neuralgia, 199. 
Nickel, cleaned, 148. 
Night air, 3. 
Nightingale, 204. 
Nose-bleed, 199. 
Nut-candy, 146. 

Oat-meal lotion, 182. 

Okra salad (boiled), 68; (raw), 
68. 

Olive sandwich, 80. 

Omelet bread, 93. 

Omelet with bread and cheese, 
93. 

Omelet (Spanish), 39. 

Onion and bean salad, 67. 

Onion salad, 67. 

Onion sandwich, 80. 
(Spanish), 39. 

Onions and apples (baked), 106. 

Onions (baked), 105; (boiled), 
105; (pickled), 123. 

Opera creams, 135. 

Orange and banana salad, 69. 

Orange and grapefruit rind, 
141. 

Orange drops, 143. 

Orange mint salad (for dessert), 
69. 

Orange salad (1), 68; (2), for des- 
sert, 68. 



Oven heat, 148. 
Oyster salad, 69. 

Parfait, cafe", 49. 
Peanut butter, 134. 
Peanut butter and cheese sand- 
wich, 82. 

Peanut candy, 130. 
Peanut candy (baked), 135. 
Pear salad (1), 69; (2), 70. 
Pears (boiled), 103. 
Pecan candy, 145. 
Peppermints, 137. 
Peppers (Mexican), stuffed (1), 

(2), 37. 

Peppers, pickled, 127. 
Persian salad, 70. 
Perspiration, 186. 
Pests 

Ants, 25. 

Bed-bugs, 28. 

Bug poison, 28. 

Cockroaches, 26. 

Flies, 25. 

Mosquitoes, 26. 

Moths and buffalo-bugs, 27. 

Rats and mice, 26. 

Water-bugs, 25. 
Pickled cabbage, 127. 
Pickled beets, 127. 
Pickled onions, 123. 
Pickled peppers, 127. 
Pickling, 108. 

Chili sauce (1), (2), 126. 

Cucumber pickle (1), 125; (2), 
126. 

Dutch salad, 125. 

Green tomato pickle, 122. 

Piccalilli, 127. 

Plum and grape catsup, 121. 

Tomato catsup (cooked), 122. 

Tomato catsup (uncooked), 121. 

Ripe tomato pickle, 123. 

Spiced currants, 122. 

Spiced fruit, 122. 

Spiced grapes, 122. 



INDEX 



Sweet pickle, general rule, 124. 

Tarragon vinegar (1), (2), 128. 
Picnic sandwich, 81. 
Pie, corn, 43. 
Pimola sandwich, 81. 
Pin-cushion, 210. 
Pipes, 6. 
Piqu6 hat, 208. 
Plumbing, 6, 21. 
Points about fruit, 108. 
Poison for bugs, 28. 
Poisons, 199. 
Pongee, washed, 170. 
Pop-corn balls, 139 ; caramel, 139; 

sugared, 138. 

Potassium permanganate, 22. 
Potatoes (scalloped), 97; (stuffed), 

96. 

Potato salad, 70. 
Pots and pans cleaned, 154. 
Pralines, 136. 

Preparing lettuce and vegeta- 
bles, 52. 
Preserving, 108. 

Acid fruits, 109. 

Amber jelly, 116. 

Apple ginger, 114. 

Apple jelly, 114. 

Barberries and raisins, 117. 

Barberry sauce, 117. 

Blackberry jam, 112. 

Canning fruit uncooked, 111. 

Cider apple sauce, 115. 

Crab-apple jelly, 113. 

Currant conserve, 120. 

Currant jelly, red, black, or 
white, 112. 

Date jam, 117. 

Fruit combinations, 109. 

Fruit, hard, 109. 

Fruit, points about, 108. 

Gooseberry jam, 113. 

Grape conserve, 120. 

Grape jelly, 115. 

Green-apple jelly, 114. 

Green-grape jam, 115. 



Green-grape jelly, 114. 

Jelly, general rule, 110. 

Marmalade, general rule, 110. 

Orange marmalade (1), 115 ; (2), 
116. 

Peach jam, 118. 

Peach preserve, 113. 

Quaker apple sauce, 115. 

Quince marmalade (1), 118; 
(2), 119. 

Quince preserve, 119. 

Rhubarb conserve, 120. 

Rhubarb without cooking, 
111. 

Strawberry jam, 111. 

Tomato figs, 119. 

Watermelon preserve, 117. 
Providence, 143. 
Pudding, English plum, 48. 
Pudding, Yorkshire, 35. 
Puffed-rice brittle, 137. 
Puffs of potato, 97. 
Pure air, 20. 

Quaker apple sauce, 115. 
Quarantine, length of, 203. 
Quince jelly, 119. 
Quince marmalade, 119. 
Quince preserve, 119. 

Raisin sandwich (1), (2), 81. 
Rats and mice, 26. 
Rice, 85. 

And cheese, 99. 

Boiled, 99. 

Cakes, 99. 

Croquettes, and sauce, 99. 

For Russian pilaf , 32. 

Gems, 98. 

(Southern style), 98. 
Rolled sandwich, 74. 
Rolls, Swedish, 45. 
Rule for jelly, 110. 
Rule for marmalade, 110. 
Running colors, 168. 
Russian pilaf, 32. 



264 



INDEX 



Salads, 51. 

Alligator pear, 45, 70. 
Apple and date, 57. 
Apple and pomelo, 57. 
Asparagus, 57. 
Banana (1), 57; (2), 58. 
Brick, 58. 

Beef, with green peas, 58. 
Beet, 58. 
Cabbage, 59. 

Cabbage and walnut meats, 59. 
Cauliflower, 60. 
Cheese and pimento, 62. 
Cherry, 60. 
Chestnut, 62. 
Chicken, 60. 

Cream cheese (1), 61; (2), 62. 
Cucumber, 62. 
Cucumber jelly, 62. 
Dutch (a pickle), 125. 
Egg, 63. 

Fish (1), 63; (2), 64. 
Fruit (for dessert), 64, 
Grape (1), (for dessert), (2), (3), 

65. 

Lettuce, egg, and cheese, 66. 
Lobster, 66. 
Lobster and egg, 66. 
Melon, 67. 

Mint, with orange, 69. 
Mushroom, 66. 
Nasturtium, 67. 
Okra (boiled), 68. 
Okra (raw), 68. 
Onion, 67. 
Onion and bean, 67. 
Orange (1), 68; (2) for dessert, 

68. 

Orange and banana, 69. 
Orange mint (for dessert), 69. 
Oyster, 69. 
Pear (1), 69; (2), 70. 
Persian, 70. 
Potato, 70. 
Sardine, 71. 
Sardine and Shrimp, 71. 



Scallop, 71. 

Shad roe, 72. 

Small-fruit (for dessert), 71. 

Spinach, 72. 

Strawberry, 72. 

Sweetbread, 61. 

Tomato and cucumber, 72. 

Tomato jelly, 73. 

Vegetable, 73. 
Salad Dressing 

Boiled (1), 56 ; (2), very simple, 
56. 

Cream, 55. 

French, 56. 

Mayonnaise (1), 53; (2), 54. 

Mayonnaise curdling pre- 
vented, 53. 

Mayonnaise improved, 55. 

Simple mayonnaise, 52. 

Sour-cream (1), (2), (3), 55. 

Whipped-cream, 56. 
Sal-soda, solution of, 22. 
Salt fish, Swedish, 31. 
Salt in double boiler, 149. 
Salt on stove, 149. 
Sandwiches 

Banana, 75. 

Baked-bean (1), (2), 75. 

Beef, 75. 

Bread used in making, 74. 

Brown and white bread, 76. 

Brown bread and cheese, 76. 

Brown bread and water-cress, 
76. 

Chicken, 76. 

Chicken and cheese, 77. 

Chestnut, 77. 

Chocolate (sweet), 77. 

Cocoanut (sweet), 77. 

Cucumber (1), (2), 78. 

Currant jelly (1), (2), 78. 

Egg, 79. 

Egg and cheese, 79. 

Fig (sweet), 79. 

Ginger, 79. 

Graham bread, 79. 



265 



INDEX 



Lemon honey (sweet), 80. 

Lettuce, 79. 

Marshmallow, 80. 

Olive, 80. 

Onion, 80. 

Peanut butter and cheese, 82. 

Picnic, 81. 

Pimola, 81. 

Raisin (1), (2), 81. 

Rolled, 74. 

Sardine, 82. 

Sweet pepper, 81. 
Sanitation in the home, 20. 
Sardine and shrimp salad, 71. 
Sardine salad, 71. 
Sardine sandwich, 82. 
Sauce 

Barberry, 117. 

Brown, for Swedish meat- 
balls, 32. 

Chili (1), (2), 126. 

For cabbage, 43. 

Italian, 34. 

Tomato for Swedish meat- 
balls, 32. 
Saving gas, 19. 
Scallop salad, 71. 
Scrap-bag, 211. 
Serving meat and vegetables, 

157. 

Serving relishes, 159. 
Shad roe salad, 72. 
Shock, 199. 

Shortbread, Scotch, 45. , 
Silk garments, washed, 170. 
Simple fudge, 133. 
Sink drain, 154. 
Slaw, 96. 

Sleeves, sewing in, 212. 
Small-fruit salad (for dessert), 

71. 

Soap cream, 186. 
Soap jelly, 186. 
Soap solution, 162. 
Soap, toilet, 185. 
Soft corns, 191. 



Soft custard, 151. 
Sore linger, 200. 
Sore throat, 200. 
Sour-cream candy, 132. 
Sour-cream salad dressing (1), 

(2), (3), 55. 
Soups 

Apple or apricot, 30. 

Baked bean, 91. 

Beet, 90. 

Corn and potato, 91. 

Corn, cream of, 91. 

Frijole, 35. 

Fruit, 30. 

Grape, 30, 

Lentils, 92. 

Milk, 89. 

Quick tomato, 91. 

Strawberry, 30. 
Spaghetti (Italian), 41. 
Spinach salad, 72. 
Sprains, 200. 
Stains 

Acid, 178. 

Blood, 176. 

Bluing spots, 177. 

Chocolate, 172. 

Coffee, 172. 

Fixed or set, 172. 

Fruit, 174. 

Grass, 174. 

Hand, 188. 

Ink, 173. 

Ink on carpet, 174. 

Iodine, 177. 

Iron-rust, 178. 

Leather, 77. 

Machine oil, 176. 

Mattress, 180. 

Mildew, 178. 

Mud, 180. 

Obstinate, 172. 

Oil on carpet, 179. 

Old paint, 176. 

Paint, 175. 

Pitch or tar, 177. 



266 



INDEX 



Printer's ink, 174. 

Removed, 171. 

Scorch, 177. 

Soot on carpet, 179. 

Tea, 172. 

Varnish, 175. 

Wall paper, 176. 

Wheel-grease, 177. 

Wood, 180. 
Starch, 164. 

Starching thin goods, 164. 
Stations, experimental, 11. 
Sterilize dishes, 9. 
Stitches 

Big needle, 216. 

Bird's eye, 220. 

Bulgarian, 215. 

Bullion, 220. 

Buttonhole, 218. 

Chain, 215. 

Couching, 221. 

Cross, 214. 

Darning, 220. 

Feather, 219. 

French knots, 219. 

Herring-bone, 217. 

Ladder, 218. 

Lazy daisy, 220. 

Moss, 241. 

Outline, 215. 

Roll, 220. 

Satin, 221. 
Stove, care of, 148. 
Stoves 

Electric, 17. 

Gas, 18. 

Strawberry salad, 72. 
String beans, 39. 
Substitute for cream, 155. 
Succotash, 92. 
Succotash, Cape Cod, 93. 
Sunburn, 186. 
Sunlight, 20. 
Sunshine, 4. 
Sweetbread salad, 61. 
Sweet pepper sandwich, 81. 



Sweet pickle (cucumber), 124. 
Sweet pickle, general rule, 124. 
Sweet pickle (watermelon rind), 

124. 

Sweet potatoes, 42. 
Sweet potatoes (with sugar), 

97. 
Sweet potatoes (Southern style), 

97. 

Table of weights and measures, 

159. 

Taffy, 146. 

Time-table for vegetables, 87. 
Toilet ideas, 181. 

Bunions and corns, 190. 

Buttermilk, 182. 

Chilblains, 191. 

Cold cream, 181. 

Cold-sores, 183. 

Corns, 191. 

Cosmetics, 181. 

Cracked lips, 183. 

Cucumber lotion, 182. 

Double chin, 191. 

Falling hair, 187. 

Feet, care of, 189. 

Feet, calloused, 189. 

Hollow neck, 192. 

Home-made toilet water, 184. 

Ingrowing nails, 190. 

Insomnia, 192. 

Jasmine toilet water, 184. 

Lavender water, 185. 

Mustard bath, 192. 

Nail-biting, 184. 

Oatmeal lotion, 182. 

Perspiration, 186. 

Rough hands, 188. 

Shampoo for white hair, 187. 

Soap cream, 186. 

Soap jelly, 186. 

Soft corns, 191. 

Stains on hands, 188. 

Sunburn, 186. 

Tired wrinkles, 192. 



267 



INDEX 



Toilet soap, 185. 

Vermin, 187. 

Watermelon lotion, 182. 

Witch-hazel jelly, 183. 
Tomato and egg baked, 103. 
Tomato and cucumber salad, 72. 
Tomato and macaroni (baked), 

104. 

Tomato catsup (cooked), 122. 
Tomato catsup (uncooked), 121. 
Tomato (green), pickled, 122. 
Tomato jelly salad, 73. 
Tomato sauce, 36. 
Tomatoes, peeled, 152. 
Tomatoes (ripe), pickled, 123. 
Tomatoes (stuffed), 103. 
Tomatoes (yellow), 73. 
Traps, flushing, 6. 
Tough meat, 150. 
Turnips (boiled), 105. 

Unconsciousness, 200. 
Uncooked candy, 142. 
Uncooked fruit canned, 111. 
Use of electricity, 18. 
Use of gas, 18. 
Utensils, electric, 17. 

Chafing-dish, 17. 

Flatiron, 17. 

Heating-pad, 17, 

Small stove, 17, 

Toaster, 17. 

Water-heater, 17. 

Vacuum Cleaners, 12. 
Vanilla caramels, 145. 
Vegetables (blanched), 87. 
Vegetables, care of, 9. 
Vegetarian food, 83. 

Apples and onions, 106. 

Artichokes, 102. 

Baked bananas, 101. 

Baked bread and cheese, 93. 

Baked cabbage, 106. 

Baked cucumbers, 105. 

Baked lentils, 96. 



Baked sweet potatoes with 
sugar, 97. 

Blanching vegetables, 87. 

Beets with vinegar sauce, 101. 

Boiled lentils, 95. 

Boiled pears as a vegetable, 103. 

Boiled rice, 99. 

Bread omelet, 93. 

Bread and cheese omelet, 93. 

Canned-corn fritters, 95. 

Carrots, 100. 

Cauliflower (baked), 106. 

Chestnuts, 85. 

Corn, 84. 

Corn fritters, 94. 

Corn pie, 94. 

Cucumbers (boiled), 105. 

Dainty way to serve eggs, 96. 

Fried carrots, 100. 

Foods for growth and repair, 
86. 

Green-corn oysters, 94. 

Hot slaw, 96. 

Jerusalem artichokes, 102. 

Macaroni and tomato, 104. 

Mashed chestnuts, 107. 

Meat substitute.cheese fondu, 
92. 

Mushrooms (baked), 107. 

Mushrooms (creamed), 106. 

Old Colony succotash (Ply- 
mouth and Cape Cod), 93. 

Onions, 105. 

Oyster-plant cakes, 100. 

Potato puffs, 97. 

Potatoes (curried), 98. 

Rice, 85. 

Rice (Southern style), 98. 

Rice and cheese, 99. 

Rice cakes, 99. 

Rice croquettes, 99. 

Rice gems, 98. ^ 

Sauce for croquettes, 99. 

Scalloped bananas, 102. 

Scalloped corn, 95. 4 

Scalloped potatoes, 97. 



268 



INDEX 



Scrambled eggs with aspara- 
gus, 95. 

Spinach, 85. 

Stewed lentils, 94. 

Stuffed potatoes, 96. 

Stuffed tomatoes, 103. 

Succotash, 92. 

Supper dish, 96. 

Sweet potatoes (Southern 
style), 97. 

Tomato and egg, 103. 

Tomato cups, 103. 

Tomato curry, 103. 

Turnips, 105. 

"Washing vegetables, 86. 

Wheat, 84. 
Vegetable salad, 73. 
Vegetable time-table, 87. 
Vegetables, prepared for salad, 

52. 

Vegetables, treatment of, 152. 
Vegetables washed, 86. 
Vegetables, without starch, 85. 
Vegetarian soups, 89. 

Baked-bean, 91. 

Beet, 90. 

Chestnut, 90. 

Corn and potato, 91. 

Cream of corn, 91. 

Lentil, 92. 

Milk, 89. 

Quick tomato, 91. 

Sorrel, 90. 
Vinegar and eggs, 150. 



Vinegar and fish, 150. 
Vinegar, care of, 155. 
Vinegar, tarragon (1), (2), 128. 
Vinegar used, 150. 
Vermin, 187. 
Vomiting, 201. 

Walnut candy, 145. 
Washing blankets, 166. 
Washing flannel, 167. 
Washing glasses, 154. 
Washing machines 12, 
Washing new stockings, 167. 
Washing sweater, 166. 
Washing vegetables, 9. 
Water-bugs, 25. 
Watermelon rind (sweet pickle), 

124. 

Watermelon lotion, 182. 
Weights and measures, 159. 
Wheat, 84. 

Whipped-cream dressing, 56. 
White hair shampoo, 187. 
Whitening curtains, 165. 
Whitening old muslin, 165. 
Whitening yellow clothes, 165. 
Witch-hazel jelly, 183. 
Work-bag, 211. 
Wounds, 201. 
Wrinkles, 192. 

Yellow tomatoes, 73. 
Zinc, cleaned, 148. 



CAMBRIDGE . MASSACHUSETTS 
U . S . A 



RETURN CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT 

TO ^ 202 Main Library 


LOAN PERIOD 1 
HOME USE 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS 

Renewals and Recharges may be made 4 days prior to the due date. 

Books may be Renewed by calling 642-3405. 



DUE AS STAMPED BELOW 


[>Ff.U 1991 






AUTO DISC JAN 10 


'91 

































































FORM NO. DD6 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
BERKELEY, CA 94720 



^ 



TSflK 



U.C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES 



CDD7DDflfl3D 




UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



