r 



-P 



i } 



Ice Creams,Water Ices 
Frozen Puddings 

Together With 

Refreshments 
for all Social Affairs 



:ffi 




Copyright N° 



COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



Ice Creams, Water Ices 
Frozen Puddings 

Together with 

Refreshments 
for all Social Affairs 

By MRS. S> T. RORER 

Author of Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book, 
Philadelphia Cook Book, Canning and 
Preserving, and other Valuable Works on 
Cookery 



PHILADELPHIA 

ARNOLD AND COMPANY 

420 SANSOM STREET 






Copyright, 1913, by Sarah Tyson Rorer 
All Rights Reserved 



Printed at the Sign of the Ivy Leaf 
in Sansom Street, Philadelphia 
by George H Buchanan Company 



#. 



7« 

A343911 



Contents 



Foreword .... 
Philadelphia Ice Creams 
Neapolitan Ice Creams . 
Ice Creams from Condensed Milk 
Frozen Puddings and Desserts 
Water Ices and Sherbets or 
Frozen Fruits 
Frappe .... 
Parfait .... 
Mousse .... 
Sauces for Ice Creams . 
Refreshments for Affairs 

Soups .... 

Sweetbreads . 

Shell Fish Dishes . 

Poultry and Game Dishes 

Cold Dishes . 

Salads .... 

Sandwiches . 
Suggestions for Church Suppers 



Sorbets 



5 

13 
25 
29 

35 
63 
76 
82 
82 

83 
88 

93 

97 

102 

109 
114 
120 
130 
143 
147 



Foreword 

CONTAINING GENERAL DIRECTIONS 
FOR ALL RECIPES 

In this book, Philadelphia Ice Creams, 
comprising the first group, are very palatable, 
but expensive. In many parts of the country 
it is quite difficult to get good cream. For 
that reason, I have given a group of creams, 
using part milk and part cream, but it must 
be remembered that it takes smart "juggling" 
to make ice cream from milk. By far better 
use condensed milk, with enough water or 
milk to rinse out the cans. 

Ordinary fruit creams may be made with 
condensed milk at a cost of about fifteen cents 
a quart, which, of course, is cheaper than 
ordinary milk and cream. 

In places where neither cream nor con- 
densed milk can be purchased, a fair ice 
cream is made by adding two tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil to each quart of milk. 



6 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &fc. 

The cream for Philadelphia Ice Cream 
should be rather rich, but not double cream. 

If pure raw cream is stirred rapidly, it 
swells and becomes frothy, like the beaten 
whites of eggs, and is "whipped cream." To 
prevent this in making Philadelphia Ice 
Cream, one-half the cream is scalded, and 
when it is very cold, the remaining half of 
raw cream is added. This gives the smooth, 
light and rich consistency which makes 
these creams so different from others. 

USE OF FRUITS 

Use fresh fruits in the summer and the 
best canned unsweetened fruits in the win- 
ter. If sweetened fruits must be used, cut 
down the given quantity of sugar. Where 
acid fruits are used, they should be added te 
the cream after it is partly frozen. 

TIME FOR FREEZING 

The time for freezing varies accord- 
ing to the quality of cream or milk or 



Foreword 7 

water; water ices require a longer time than 
ice creams. It is not well to freeze the mix- 
tures too rapidly; they are apt to be coarse, 
not smooth, and if they are churned before 
the mixture is icy cold they will be greasy or 
"buttery." 

The average time for freezing two quarts 
of cream should be ten minutes ; it takes but 
a minute or two longer for larger quantities. 

DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 

Pound the ice in a large bag with a mallet, 
or use an ordinary ice shaver. The finer the 
ice, the less time it takes to freeze the cream. 
A four quart freezer will require ten pounds 
of ice, and a quart and a pint of coarse rock 
salt. You may pack the freezer with a layer 
of ice three inches thick, then a layer of salt 
one inch thick, or mix the ice and salt in the 
tub and shovel it around the freezer. Before 
beginning to pack the freezer, turn the 
crank to see that all the machinery is in 
working order. Then open the can and 



8 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

turn in the mixture that is to be frozen. 
Turn the crank slowly and steadily until the 
mixture begins to freeze, then more rapidly 
until it is completely frozen. If the freezer 
is properly packed, it will take fifteen min- 
utes to freeze the mixture. Philadelphia 
Ice Creams are not good if frozen too 
quickly. 

TO REPACK 

After the cream is frozen, wipe off the lid 
of the can and remove the crank; take off 
the lid, being very careful not to allow any 
salt to fall into the can. Remove the dasher 
and scrape it off. Take a large knife or 
steel spatula, scrape the cream from the sides 
of the can, work and pack it down until it 
is perfectly smooth. Put the lid back on the 
can, and put a cork in the hole from which 
the dasher was taken. Draw off the water, 
repack, and cover the whole with a piece of 
brown paper; throw over a heavy bag or a 
bit of burlap, and stand aside for one or two 
hours to ripen. 



Foreword 9 

TO MOLD ICE CREAMS, ICES OR 
PUDDINGS 

If you wish to pack ice cream and serve 
it in forms or shapes, it must be molded after 
the freezing. The handiest of all of these 
molds is either the brick or the melon mold. 

After the cream is frozen rather stiff, 
prepare a tub or bucket of coarsely chopped 
ice, with one-half less salt than you use for 
freezing. To each ten pounds of ice allow 
one quart of rock salt. Sprinkle a little rock 
salt in the bottom of your bucket or tub, then 
put over a layer of cracked ice, another layer 
of salt and cracked ice, and on this stand your 
mold, which is not filled, but is covered with 
a lid, and pack it all around, leaving the top, 
}f course, to pack later on. Take your freezer 
near this tub. Remove the lid from the mold, 
and pack in the cream, smoothing it down 
until you have filled it to overflowing. 
Smooth the top with a spatula or limber knife, 
put over a sheet of waxed paper and adjust 
the lid. Have a strip of muslin or cheese 



io Mrs. Rorer's Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

cloth dipped in hot paraffin or suet and 
quickly bind the seam of the lid. This will 
remove all danger of salt water entering the 
pudding. Now cover the mold thoroughly 
with ice and salt. 

Make sure that your packing tub or 
bucket has a hole below the top of the mold, 
so that the salt water will be drained off. 

If you are packing in small molds, each 
mold, as fast as it is closed, should be 
wrapped in wax paper and put down into 
the salt and ice. These must be filled quickly 
and packed. 

Molds should stand two hours, and may 
stand longer. 

TO REMOVE ICE CREAMS, ICES AND 
PUDDINGS FROM MOLDS 

Ice cream may be molded in the freezer; 
you will then have a perfectly round smooth 
mold, which serves very well for puddings 
that are to be garnished, and saves a great 
deal of trouble and extra expense for salt 
and ice. 



Foreword 1 1 

As cold water is warmer than the ordi- 
nary freezing mixture, after you lift the can 
or mold, wipe of! the salt, hold it for a min- 
ute under the cold water spigot, then quickly 
wipe the top and bottom and remove the lid. 
Loosen the pudding with a limber knife, hold 
the mold a little slanting, give it a shake, and 
nine times out of ten it will come out quickly, 
having the perfect shape of the can or mold. 
If the cream still sticks and refuses to come 
out, wipe the mold with a towel wrung from 
warm water. Hot water spoils the gloss of 
puddings, and unless you know exactly how 
to use it, the cream is too much melted to 
garnish. 

All frozen puddings, water ices, sherbets 
and sorbets are frozen and molded according 
to these directions. 

The quantities given in these recipes are 
arranged in equal amounts, so that for a 
smaller number of persons they can be easily 
divided. 



12 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, C-Tc. 

QUANTITIES FOR SERVING 

Each quart of ice cream will serve, in 
dessert plates, four persons. In stem ice 
cream dishes, silver or glass, it will serve 
six persons. A quart of ice or sherbet will 
fill ten small sherbet stem glasses, to serve 
with the meat course at dinner. This quan- 
tity will serve in lemonade glasses eight 
persons. 



Philadelphia Ice Creams 



BURNT ALMOND ICE CREAM 

i quart of cream 
y 2 pound of sugar 
4 ounces of sweet almonds 
i tablespoonful of caramel 
i teaspoonful of vanilla extract 
4 tablespoonfuls of sherry 

Shell, blanch and roast the almonds until 
they are a golden brown, then grate them. Put 
half the cream and all the sugar over the fire in 
a double boiler. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
take it from the fire, add the caramel and the 
almonds, and, when cold, add the remaining pint 
of cream, the vanilla and the sherry. Freeze as 
directed on page 7. 

This quantity will serve eight persons. 

APRICOT ICE CREAM 

6 ounces of sugar 

1 quart of cream 

1 can of apricots or 

1 quart of fresh apricots 

If fresh apricots are used, take an extra 
quarter of a pound of sugar. Put half the cream 
and all the sugar over the fire in a double boiler 
and stir until the sugar is dissolved; take from 



14 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

the fire and, when cold, add the remaining cream. 
Turn the mixture into the freezer, and, when 
frozen fairly stiff, add the apricots after having 
been pressed through a colander. Return the lid, 
adjust the crank, and turn it slowly for five 
minutes, then remove the dasher and repack. 
This quantity should serve ten persons. 

BANANA ICE CREAM 

I quart of cream 
6 large bananas 
y 2 pound of sugar 
i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Put half the cream and all the sugar over 
the fire and stir until the sugar is dissolved ; take 
from the fire, and, when perfectly cold, add the 
remaining half of the cream. Freeze the mix- 
ture, and add the bananas mashed or pressed 
through a colander. Put on the lid, adjust the 
crank, and turn until the mixture is frozen rather 
hard. 

This quantity will serve ten persons. 

BISCUIT ICE CREAM 

6 wine biscuits 
I quart of cream 
y 2 pound of sugar 
i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Grate and sift the biscuits. Scald half the 
cream and the sugar; when cold, add the re- 



Philadelphia Ice Creams 15 

maining cream and the vanilla, and freeze. When 
frozen, remove the dasher, stir in the powdered 
biscuits, and repack to ripen. 

This quantity will serve six persons. 

APPLE ICE CREAM 

4 large tart apples 
1 quart of cream 
Yz pound of sugar 
1 tablespoonful of lemon juice 

Put half the cream and all the sugar over 
the fire and stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
When the mixture is perfectly cold, freeze it 
and add the lemon juice and the apples, pared 
and grated. Finish the freezing, and repack to 
ripen. 

The apples must be pared at the last minute 
and grated into the cream. If they are grated 
on a dish and allowed to remain in the air they 
will turn very dark and spoil the color of the 
cream. 

BROWN BREAD ICE CREAM 

3 half inch slices of Boston Brown Bread 

I quart of cream 
% pound of sugar 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla or 
54 of a vanilla bean or a teaspoonful of 
vanilla extract 

Dry and toast the bread in the oven, grate 
or pound it, and put it through an ordinary sieve. 



1 6 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

Heat half the cream and all the sugar; take 
from the fire, add vanilla, and, when cold, add 
the remaining cream, and freeze. When frozen, 
remove the dasher, stir in the brown bread, repack 
and stand aside to ripen. 

This quantity will serve six persons. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM, No. i 

I quart of cream 
y 2 pound of sugar 
I teaspoonful of vanilla 

Put four tablespoon fuls of the sugar in an 
iron frying pan over a strong fire, shake until the 
sugar melts, turns brown, smokes and burns ; add 
quickly a half cupful of water; let it boil a min- 
ute, take from the fire, and put it, with all the 
sugar and half the cream, in a double boiler over 
the fire. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, take 
from the fire, and, when cold, add the remaining 
cream and vanilla, and freeze. 

This quantity will serve six persons. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM, No. 2 

I quart of cream 

1 pint of milk 

y 2 cupful of brown sugar 

y 2 pound of granulated sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla 

Put the brown sugar in a frying pan over 
the fire, shake it until it melts, burns and smokes. 



Philadelphia Ice Creams 1 7 

Take it from the fire and add two tablespoonfuls 
of water; heat until the sugar is again melted, 
put it in a double boiler with the milk and all 
the sugar, stir until the sugar is dissolved, and 
stand aside to cool. When cold, add half the 
cream and the vanilla, and freeze. When frozen 
sufficiently stiff to remove the dasher, stir in the 
remaining pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth, 
repack and stand aside for three hours. 
This quantity will serve ten persons. 



BISQUE ICE CREAM 

1 quart of cream 
J4 pound of almond macaroons 

4 kisses 
y 2 pound of sugar 

1 slice of stale sponge cake or 

2 stale lady fingers 

1 teaspoonful of caramel 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

If you use it, 4 tablespoonfuls of sherry 

Pound the macaroons, kisses, lady fingers or 
sponge cake, and put them through a colander. 
Put half the cream and all the sugar over the 
fire in a double boiler; when the sugar is dis- 
solved, stand the mixture aside to cool; when 
cold, add the remaining cream, the caramel, 
sherry and vanilla. Turn the mixture into the 
freezer, and, when frozen, add the pounded cakes ; 



1 8 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

stir the mixture until it is perfectly smooth and 
well mixed, and repack. Bisque ice cream is 
better for a three hour stand. 

This quantity will serve six persons. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

I quart of cream 

i pint of milk 
y 2 pound of sugar 

4 ounces of chocolate 

I teaspoonful of vanilla or 
% of a vanilla bean 
l /4 of a teaspoonful of cinnamon 

Grate the chocolate, put it in a double boiler 
with the milk; stir until hot, and add the sugar, 
vanilla, cinnamon and one pint of the cream. 
When cold, freeze; when frozen, remove the 
dasher and stir in the remaining pint of the 
cream whipped to a stiff froth. 

This will serve ten persons. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM 

i quart of cream 
y 2 pound of pulverized sugar 
4 ounces of so-called Mocha coffee 

Grind the Mocha rather coarse, put it in the 
double boiler with one half the cream, and steep 
over the fire for at least ten minutes. Strain 
through a fine muslin or flannel bag, pressing it 



Ph Had el p h ia Ice Cream s 19 

hard to get out all the strength of the coffee. Add 
the sugar and stir until dissolved ; when cold, add 
the remaining pint of cream and freeze. 
This will serve six persons. 



CURACAO ICE CREAM 

1 quart of cream 

1 wineglassful of curagao 
y 2 pound of sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls of orange blossoms water 
Juice of two oranges 

Put the sugar and half the cream over the 
fire in a double boiler. When the sugar is dis- 
solved, take it from the fire, and, when cold, add 
the curagao, orange juice and orange blossoms 
water ; add the remaining cream, and freeze. 

This will serve six persons. 



GINGER ICE CREAM 

1 quart of cream 
J4 pound of preserved ginger 
Yz pound of sugar 

1 tablespoonful of lemon juice 

Put the ginger through an ordinary meat 
chopper. Heat the sugar, ginger and half the 
cream in a double boiler; when the sugar is dis- 
solved, take it from the fire, and, when cold, add 
the lemon juice and remaining cream, and freeze. 



20 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c, 

MARASCHINO ICE CREAM 

i quart of cream 
y 2 pound of sugar 

1 orange 

2 wineglassfuls of maraschino 

2 drops of Angostura Bitters, or l / 2 teaspoonful 
of extract of wild cherry 

Put the sugar and half the cream in a double 
boiler, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
When cold, add the remaining cream, the juice 
of the orange, the bitters or wild cherry, and the 
maraschino, and freeze. 

Serve in parfait glasses to six persons. 



LEMON ICE CREAM 

i quart of cream 
9 ounces of powdered sugar 
4 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice 
Juice of one orange 
Grated yellow rind of 3 lemons 

Mix the sugar, the grated rind and juice of 
the lemons, and the orange juice together. Put 
half the cream in a double boiler over the fire; 
when scalding hot, stand it aside until perfectly 
cold; add the remaining half of the cream and 
freeze it rather hard. Remove the crank and the 
lid, add the sugar mixture, replace the lid and 
crank, and turn rapidly for five minutes; repack 
to ripen. 

This will serve six people. 



Philadelphia Ice Creams 21 

ORANGE ICE CREAM 

i quart of cream 
10 ounces of sugar 

Juice of 6 large oranges 
Grated rind of one orange 

Put the sugar, grated yellow rind of the 
orange and half the cream in a double boiler over 
the fire; when the sugar is dissolved, take from 
the fire, and, when very cold, add the remaining 
cream, and freeze. When frozen rather hard, add 
the orange juice, re freeze, and pack to ripen. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM 

i quart of cream 
12 ounces of sugar 
i large ripe pineapple or 
i pint can of grated pineapple 
Juice of one lemon 

Put half the cream and half the sugar in a 
double boiler over the fire ; when the sugar is dis- 
solved, stand it aside until cold. Pare and grate 
the pineapple, add the remaining half of the sugar 
and stand it aside. When the cream is cold, add 
the remaining cream, and partly freeze. Then 
add the lemon juice to the pineapple and add it 
to the frozen cream ; turn the freezer five minutes 
longer, and repack. 

This will serve eight or ten persons. 



22 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

GREEN GAGE ICE CREAM 

i quart of cream 
4 ounces of sugar 
I pint of preserved green gages, free 
from syrup 

Press the green gages through a sieve. Add 
the sugar to half the cream, stir it in a double 
boiler until the sugar is dissolved; when cold, 
add the remaining cream. When this is partly 
frozen, stir in the green gage pulp, and finish the 
freezing as directed on page 7. 

If the green gages are colorless, add three 
or four drops of apple green coloring to the 
cream before freezing. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM 

1 quart of cream 
1 quart of raspberries 
12 ounces of sugar 
Juice of one lemon 

Mash the raspberries ; add half the sugar and 
the lemon juice. Put the remaining sugar and 
half the cream in a double boiler; stir until the 
sugar is dissolved, and stand aside to cool ; when 
cold, add the remaining cream, turn the mixture 
into the freezer, and stir until partly frozen. Re- 
move the lid and add the mashed raspberries, and 
stir again for five or ten minutes until the mix- 
ture is sufficiently hard to repack. 

This will serve eight or ten persons. 



Philadelphia Ice Creams 23 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Make precisely the same as raspberry ice 
cream, substituting one quart of strawberries for 
the raspberries. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM 

1 quart of cream 
Y 2 pound of sugar 
Vi pound of shelled pistachio nuts 

1 teaspoonful of almond extract 
10 drops of green coloring 

Blanch and pound or grate the nuts. Put 
half the cream and all the sugar in a double 
boiler ; stir until the sugar is dissolved and stand 
aside to cool ; when cold, add the nuts, the flavor- 
ing and the remaining cream, mix, add the color- 
ing, and turn into the freezer to freeze. 

If green coloring matter is not at hand, a 
little spinach or parsley may be chopped and 
rubbed with a small quantity of alcohol. 

This quantity will serve six persons. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

1 quart of cream 
Yi pound of sugar 
I vanilla bean or two teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla extract 

Put the sugar and half the cream in a double 
boiler over the fire. Split the vanilla bean, scrape 



24 Mrs, Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, & c, 

out the seeds and add them to the hot cream, and 
add the bean broken into pieces. Stir until the 
sugar is dissolved, and strain through a colander. 
When this is cold, add the remaining cream and 
freeze. This should be repacked and given two 
hours to ripen. Four would be better. 
This will serve six persons. 

WALNUT ICE CREAM 

i quart of cream 
14 pound of sugar 

i teaspoonful of vanilla 

i teaspoonful of caramel 
Yz pint of black walnut meats 

Put the sugar and half the cream over the 
fire in a double boiler; when the sugar is dis- 
solved, stand it aside to cool. When cold, add 
the remaining cream, the walnuts, chopped, and 
the flavoring, and freeze. 

This will serve six persons. 



Neapolitan Creams 

In this group we have a set of frozen 
desserts called by many "ice creams/' but 
which are really frozen custards, flavored. 
In localities where cream is not accessible, the 
Neapolitan Creams are far better than milk 
thickened with cornstarch or gelatin. 



CHOCOLATE 

i pint of cream 
i pint of milk 
y 2 pound of sugar 
4 eggs 

2 ounces of chocolate 
i small piece of stick cinnamon 
i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Put the milk and cinnamon over the fire in 
a double boiler. Beat the yolks of the eggs and 
sugar until very light, add the well-beaten whites, 
and stir this into the hot milk. As soon as the 
mixture begins to thicken, take it from the fire, 
add the grated chocolate, and, when cold, add the 
cream and the vanilla. Freeze and pack as 
directed on page 7. 

This is sufficient to serve ten persons. 



26 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, £ffc. 

CARAMEL 

i pint of cream 
i pint of milk 
Yz pound of sugar 
4 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls of caramel 
i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until creamy and 
add the sugar; beat until light, and then add the 
well-beaten whites of the eggs. Put the milk 
over the fire in a double boiler ; when hot, add the 
eggs, and stir and cook until the mixture begins 
to thicken. Take from the fire, strain through a 
fine sieve, add the vanilla and caramel, and, when 
cold, add the cream, and freeze. 

This will serve ten persons. 

COFFEE 

i pint of strong black coffee 

1 pint of cream 

2 eggs 

Yt pound of sugar 
i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Beat the sugar and the yolks of the eggs until 
light, add the well-beaten whites, and pour into 
them the coffee, boiling hot. Stir over the fire 
for a minute, take from the fire, add the vanilla, 
and, when cold, add the cream, and freeze. 

This will serve eight persons. 



Neapolitan Ice Creams 27 

VANILLA 

I pint of cream 

1 pint of milk 
y 2 pound of sugar 

3 eggs 

J4 vanilla bean or a teaspoonful of 
good extract 

Put the milk over the fire in a double boiler, 
and add the vanilla bean, split. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs and the sugar until light, add the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, and stir into them 
the hot milk. Return the mixture to the double 
boiler and cook until it begins to thicken, or will 
coat a knife blade dipped into it. Take from the 
fire, strain through a colander, and, when cold, 
add the cream, and freeze. Repack and stand to 
ripen for three hours or longer. 

This will serve eight persons, 

WALNUT 

1 pint of cream 

1 pint of milk 

2 eggs 

y 2 pint of chopped black walnuts 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla 
1 teaspoonful of caramel 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar 
until light; add the well-beaten whites, and then 
the milk, scalding hot. Stir over the fire in a 
double boiler until the mixture begins to thicken ; 



28 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

take from the fire and add the vanilla and cara- 
mel. When cold, add the walnuts and cream, and 
freeze. 

This will serve eight persons. 



NEAPOLITAN BLOCKS 

These are made by putting layers of various 
kinds and colors of ice creams into a brick mold. 
Pack and freeze. At serving time, cut into slices 
crosswise of the brick, and serve each slice on a 
paper mat. 



Ice Creams 
from Condensed Milk 

These creams are not so good as those 
made from raw cream, but with care and 
good flavoring are quite as good as the or- 
dinary Neapolitan Creams. 

There is one advantage — condensed milk 
is not so liable to curdle when mixed with 
fresh fruits. These recipes will answer also 
for what is sold under the name of "Evap- 
orated Cream." Use unsweetened milk, or 
allow for the sugar in the sweetened varieties. 

BANANA 

6 large bananas 
54 pound of sugar 

i half pint can of condensed milk 
V* cupful of water 
Juice of one lemon 

Press the bananas through a sieve, and add 
the lemon juice and sugar. Stand aside a half 
hour, add milk and water, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, and freeze as directed on page 7. 

This will serve six persons. 



30 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

CARAMEL 

J4 cupful of brown sugar 

y 2 cupful of granulated sugar 

1 cupful of water 

2 half pint cans of condensed milk 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

Put the brown sugar in an iron pan, melt 
and brown it. When it begins to smoke, add two 
tablespoon fuls of hot water. Stir until liquid. 
Pour out the milk, rinse the cans with the water, 
add the caramel, vanilla and granulated sugar. 
When the sugar is dissolved, freeze as directed 
on page 7. 

This will serve six persons. 

COCOANUT 

2 large cocoanuts 

1 pint of boiling water 
Vz pint can of sweetened condensed milk 

Grate the cocoanuts and pour over them the 
boiling water. Stir until it is cool, and press in 
a sieve. Put the fibre in a cheese cloth and wring 
it dry; add this to the water that was strained 
through the sieve. When cold, add condensed 
milk, and freeze as directed on page 7. 

This will serve eight persons. 



Ice Creams from Condensed Milk 31 

CHOCOLATE, No. 1 

2 ounces of Baker's chocolate 
]/2 pint of water 

1 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon 

2 half pint cans of condensed milk 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

% pound of sugar 

Put the water, chocolate, sugar and cinna- 
mon in a saucepan ; stir until boiling. Take from 
the fire, add the vanilla and the condensed milk. 
When cold, freeze as directed on page 7. 

This will serve six persons. 



CHOCOLATE, No. 2 

4 ounces of Baker's chocolate 
y 2 pint of water 
H pound of sugar 

2 half pint cans of condensed milk 

1 pint of milk 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla 

1 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon 

Put the chocolate, sugar, water and cinna- 
mon in a saucepan over the fire. Stir until the 
mixture boils. Take from the fire, and add all 
the remaining ingredients. When cold, freeze as 
directed on page 7. 

This will serve eight persons. 



32 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

COFFEE 

i pint of strong black coffee 
y 2 cupful of sugar 
H pint can of condensed milk 

i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Add the sugar to the hot coffee, and stir 
until it is dissolved; add the milk, using water 
enough to rinse out the cans; add the vanilla. 
When the mixture is cold, freeze, turning it rap- 
idly toward the end of the freezing. 

This will serve four persons. 

PEACH 

12 ripe or canned peaches 

4 peach kernels 
y 2 pint of water 

2 half pint cans of unsweetened condensed milk 
y 2 pound of sugar 

Put the sugar, water and peach kernels over 
the fire ; stir until the sugar is dissolved, and boil 
three minutes. Pare the peaches and press them 
through a colander, add to them the strained 
syrup. When cold, turn the mixture into the 
freezer and turn the crank slowly until partly 
frozen; add the milk, and continue the freezing. 

Omit the water and use less sugar with 
canned peaches. 

This will serve ten persons. 



Ice Creams from Condensed Milk 33 

ORANGE, No. 1 

1 full pint of orange juice 
2/3 cupful of sugar 
r / 2 pint can of condensed milk 

Grated yellow rind of two oranges 

Grate the rinds into the sugar, add milk and 
enough water to rinse cans. When sugar is dis- 
solved, stand it in a cold place. Put orange juice 
in the freezer and freeze it quite hard; add 
sweetened milk, and freeze again quickly. 

This will serve four persons. 



ORANGE, No. 2 

Freeze a full quart of orange juice. When 
quite hard, add a can of sweetened condensed 
milk, freeze it again, and serve at once. 

This is very nice and will serve eight persons. 

ORANGE GELATIN CREAM 

x / 2 pint of orange juice 

1 package of orange Jello 
l / 2 pound of sugar 

1 pint can of unsweetened condensed milk 
y 2 pint of water 

Add the grated yellow rind of two oranges 
to the Jello ; add the sugar and the water, boiling. 
Stir until the sugar and Jello are dissolved, add 
the orange juice, and when the mixture is cold, 



34 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

put it in the freezer and stir slowly until it begins 
to freeze. Add the condensed milk, and continue 
the freezing. 

This is nice served in tall glasses, with the 
beaten whites of the eggs made into a meringue 
and heaped on top. 

In this way it will serve eight persons. 



SOUR SOP 

I large sour sop 
54 pound of sugar 
J /2 pint can of unsweetened condensed milk 

4 tablespoonfuls of boiling water 
Juice of one lime 

Squeeze the sour sop, which should measure 
nearly one quart; add the sugar melted in the 
water with the lime juice and milk, and freeze 
slowly. 

This will serve ten persons. 



Frozen 
Puddings and Desserts 



ALASKA BAKE 

Make a vanilla ice cream, one or two quarts, 
as the occasion demands. When the ice cream is 
frozen, pack it in a brick mold, cover each side 
of the mold with letter paper and fasten the bot- 
tom and lid. Wrap the whole in wax paper and 
pack it in salt and ice; freeze for at least two 
hours before serving time. At serving time, make 
a meringue from the whites of six eggs beaten 
to a froth; add six tablespoonfuls of sifted pow- 
dered sugar and beat until fine and dry. Turn 
the ice cream from the mold, place it on a serv- 
ing platter, and stand the platter on a steak board 
or an ordinary thick plank. Cover the mold with 
the meringue pressed through a star tube in a 
pastry bag, or spread it all over the ice cream as 
you would ice a cake. Decorate the top quickly, 
and dust it thickly with powdered sugar; stand 
it under the gas burners in a gas broiler or on 
the grate in a hot coal or wood oven until it 
is lightly browned, and send it quickly to the 
table. There is no danger of the ice cream melt- 
ing if you will protect the under side of the plate. 



36 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

The meringue acts as a nonconductor for the 
upper part. 

A two quart mold with meringue will serve 
ten persons. 

ALEXANDER BOMB 

I pint of cream 
I pint of milk 
4 eggs 
4 tart apples 
i pint of water 

i glassful of orange blossoms water 
i wineglassful of curacao 
i pound of sugar 
Juice of one lemon 

Peel, core and quarter the apples ; put them 
in a saucepan with the grated yellow rind of the 
lemon, half the sugar and all the water; boil 
until tender, and add the juice of the lemon; rub 
the apples through a sieve. When cold, freeze. 
Whip the cream. Beat the eggs and the remain- 
ing sugar and add them to the milk, hot; stir 
until the mixture thickens, take from the fire, and, 
when cold, add the orange blossoms water and 
the curagao; freeze in another freezer. Divide 
the whipped cream, and stir one-half into the 
first and one-half into the other mixture. Line 
a melon mold with the custard mixture, fill the 
centre space with the frozen apples, and cover 
over another layer of the custard; put over a 
sheet of letter paper and put on the lid. Bind 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 37 

the seam with a strip of muslin dipped in paraffin 
or suet, and pack the mold in salt and ice; freeze 
for at least two hours. Serve plain, or it may be 
garnished with whipped cream. 

This will serve twelve persons. 

BISCUITS AMERICANA 

1 quart of cream 
y 2 pound of sugar 
% pound of Jordan almonds 
1 teaspoonful of almond extract 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla 
Yolks of six eggs 
Grated rind of one lemon 

Put half the cream in a double boiler over 
the fire, and, when hot, add the yolks of the 
eggs and sugar, beaten until very, very light ; add 
all the flavoring, and stand aside until very cold; 
when cold, freeze in an ordinary freezer. Whip 
the remaining pint of cream, add one-half of it 
to the frozen mixture, repack and stand aside to 
ripen. Blanch, dry and chop the almonds. Put 
them in the oven and shake constantly until they 
are a golden brown. At serving time, fill the 
frozen mixture quickly into paper cases; have 
the remaining whipped cream in a pastry bag with 
star tube, make a little rosette on the top of each 
case, dust thickly with the chopped almonds, and 
send to the table. 

This will fill twelve cases of ordinary size. 



38 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

BISCUITS GLACES 

i pint of cream 

54 pound of sugar 

i pint of water 

1 gill of sherry 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy 
i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Yolks of six eggs 

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan over 
the fire and stir until the sugar is dissolved ; wipe 
down the sides of the pan, and boil until the 
syrup spins a heavy thread or makes a soft ball 
when dropped into cold water. Beat the yolks 
of the eggs to a cream, add them to the boiling 
syrup, and with an egg beater whisk over the 
fire until you have a custard-like mixture that 
will thickly coat a knife blade; strain through a 
sieve into a bowl, and whisk until the mixture is 
stiff and cold. It should look like a very light 
sponge cake batter. Add the flavoring. Whip 
the cream and stir it carefully into the mixture. 
Fill the mixture into paper cases or individual 
dishes, stand them in a freezing cave or in a tin 
bucket that is well packed in salt and ice, cover 
and freeze for at least four or five hours. 

If you do not have a freezing cave, pack a 
good sized tin kettle in a small tub or water 
bucket. The kettle must have a tight fitting lid. 
Stand your cases or molds on the bottom of the 
tin kettle, which is packed in salt and ice. Put 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 39 

on top a sheet of letter paper, on top of this an- 
other layer of molds or cases, and so continue 
until you have the kettle filled. Put the lid on 
the kettle and cover with salt and ice. Make sure 
that you have a hole half-way up in the packing 
bucket or tub, so that there is no danger of salt 
water overflowing the kettle. This is a homely 
but very good freezing cave. 

At serving time, dust the tops of the biscuits 
with grated macaroons or chopped almonds, dish 
on paper mats, and send to the table. 

This will fill fifteen biscuit cases. 

BISCUITS a la MARIE 

l / 2 pound of sugar 

1 pint of water 

y 2 pint of cream 

y 2 pound of almond macaroons 

%. pound of candied or Maraschino cherries 

1 teaspoonful of bitter almond extract 
Yolks of six eggs 

Boil the sugar and water until the syrup will 
spin a heavy thread. Add the eggs, beaten until 
very light. Whip this over the fire for three 
minutes, take it from the fire, strain into a bowl, 
and whip until thick and cold. Add the flavoring 
and the macaroons, that have been dried, grated 
and sifted. Add the cream, whipped. Fill the 
mixture into paper cases, and freeze as directed 
for Biscuits Glaces. 



40 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

An extra half pint of cream may be whipped 
for garnish at serving time, if desired; other- 
wise, garnish the top with chopped maraschino 
cherries, and send to the table. 

This will fill twelve biscuit cases. 



BOMB GLACE 

Pack a two quart bomb glace mold in salt 
and ice. Remove the lid, and line the mold with 
a quart of well-made vanilla ice cream. Fill the 
centre with one half the recipe for Biscuit Glace 
mixture, that has been packed in a freezer until 
icy cold. Put on the lid, bind the edge with a 
piece of muslin dipped in paraffin or suet, cover 
the mold with salt and ice, and stand aside three 
hours to freeze. 

This will serve twelve persons. 

BISCUIT TORTONI 

i quart of cream 
y 2 pound of sugar 

1 gill of maraschino 

2 tablespoonfuls of sherry 
I teaspoonful of vanilla 

Yolks of six eggs 

Put half the cream in a double boiler over 
the fire. Beat the sugar and yolks together until 
very, very light, add them to the hot cream and 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 41 

stir over the fire until the mixture begins to 
thicken. Take from the fire, and, when very 
cold, add the vanilla, maraschino and sherry, 
and freeze. When frozen, stir in the remaining 
cream, whipped to a stiff froth. Fill individual 
dishes or paper cases, stand at once in the freez- 
ing kettle or ice cave; pack and freeze from 
three to four hours. 

This will fill twelve cases. 



CABINET PUDDING, ICED 

1 quart of milk 

6 eggs 
%. pound of powdered sugar 

1 tablespoonful of powdered gelatin 
J4 pound of macaroons and lady fingers, mixed 
l / 2 pound of conserved cherries or pineapple 
l / 2 pound of stale sponge cake 

Grate the macaroons and lady fingers, and 
rub them through a coarse sieve. Cut the sponge 
cake into slices and then into strips. Put the 
milk over the fire in a double boiler and add the 
eggs. and sugar beaten together until light; stir 
and cook until the mixture is sufficiently thick to 
coat a knife blade. Take from the fire, add the 
gelatin, strain, and stand it aside to cool. Gar- 
nish the bottom of a two quart melon mold with 
the cherries or pineapple, put in a layer of the 
sponge cake, then a sprinkling of the macaroons 



42 Mrs. Rorer's Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

and lady fingers, another layer of the cherries, 
then the sponge cake, and so continue until you 
have all the ingredients used. Add a teaspoonful 
of vanilla to the custard, pour it in the mold, 
cover the mold with the lid, bind the seam with 
muslin dipped in paraffin or suet, pack in salt and 
ice, and stand aside for three hours. 

At serving time, dip the mold quickly into 
hot water, wipe it off, remove the lid and turn 
the pudding on to a cold platter. Pour around 
a well-made Montrose Sauce, and send to the 
table. 

This will serve ten or twelve persons. 



ICED CAKE 

Make an Angel Food or a Sunshine Cake 
and bake it in a square mold. Make a plain 
frozen custard, and flavor it with vanilla; pack 
it and stand it aside until serving time. Cut off 
the top of the cake, take out the centre, leaving 
a bottom and wall one inch thick. At serving 
time, fill the cake quickly with the frozen cus- 
tard, replace the top, dust it thickly with pow- 
dered sugar and chopped almonds, and send it to 
the table with a sauceboat of cold Montrose 
Sauce. 

This cake may be varied by using different 
garnishings. Maraschino cherries may be used 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 43 

in place of almonds, or the base of the cake may 
be garnished with preserved green walnuts or 
green gages, or the top and sides may be gar- 
nished with rosettes of whipped cream. 
This will serve twelve persons. 

QUICK CARAMEL PARFAIT 

Make a quart of Caramel Ice Cream, pack, 
and stand it aside for two hours. At serving 
time, stir in a pint of cream, whipped to a stiff 
froth, dish in parfait glasses, and send to the 
table. The top of the glasses may be garnished 
with whipped cream, if desired. 

This will fill eight glasses. 

QUICK CAFE PARFAIT 

Make a quart of plain Coffee Ice Cream, 
freeze and pack it. Whip one pint of cream. At 
serving time, stir the whipped cream into the 
frozen coffee cream, dish it at once into tall par- 
fait glasses, garnish the top with a rosette of 
whipped cream, and send at once to the table. 

This will fill eight glasses. 

QUICK STRAWBERRY PARFAIT 

This is made precisely the same as other 
parfaits, with Strawberry Ice Cream, and whipped 



44 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

cream stirred in at serving time. Serve in par- 
fait glasses, garnish the top with whipped cream, 
with a strawberry in the centre on top. 
This will fill eight glasses. 

QUICK CHOCOLATE PARFAIT 

Make one quart of Chocolate Ice Cream, and 
add one pint of whipped cream, according to the 
preceding recipes. 

This will serve eight persons. 

MONTE CARLO PUDDING 

I quart of cream 

6 ounces of sugar (2/3 of a cupful) 
4 tablespoonfuls of creme de violette 
r A pound of candied violets 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

Put half the cream over the fire in a double 
boiler. Pound or roll the violets, sift them, add 
the sugar and sufficient hot cream to dissolve 
them. Take the cream from the fire, add the 
violet sugar, and stir until it is dissolved; when 
cold, add the flavoring and the remaining cream. 
Freeze, and pack into a two quart pyramid mold ; 
pack in salt and ice for at least two hours. At 
serving time, turn the ice on to a platter, garnish 
the base with whipped cream, and the whole with 
candied violets. 

This will serve six to eight persons. 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 45 

BOSTON PUDDING 

Make Boston Brown Bread Ice Cream and 
half the recipe for Tutti Frutti. When both are 
frozen, line a melon mold with the Brown Bread 
Ice Cream, fill the centre with the Tutti Frutti, 
cover over more of the Brown Bread Ice Cream, 
fasten tightly, and bind the seam of the lid with 
a strip of muslin dipped in paraffin or suet. Pack 
in salt and ice for at least two hours. At serving 
time, dip the mold quickly into hot water, turn 
the pudding on to a cold platter, pour around 
the base caramel sauce, and serve at once. 

This will serve twelve persons. 



MONTROSE PUDDING 

1 quart of cream 
I cupful of granulated sugar 
I tablespoonful of vanilla 
1 pint of strawberry water ice 
Yolks of six eggs 

Put half the cream over the fire in a double 
boiler. Beat the yolks and sugar together until 
light, add them to the boiling cream, and cook 
and stir for one minute until it begins to thicken. 
Take from the fire, add the remaining pint of 
cream and the vanilla, and stand aside until very 
cold. Freeze, and pack into a round or melon 
mold, leaving a well in the centre. Fill this well 



46 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

with Strawberry Water Ice that has been frozen 
an hour before, and cover it with some of the 
pudding mixture that you have left in the freezer. 
Fasten the lid, bind the seam with a piece of 
muslin dipped in suet or paraffin, and pack in 
salt and ice to stand for not less than two hours, 
four is better. Serve with Montrose Sauce 
poured around it. 

This will serve twelve persons. 



NESSELRODE PUDDING 

1 pint of Spanish chestnuts 
y 2 pound of sugar 

1 pint of boiling water 
y 2 pint of shelled almonds 

I pound of French candied fruit, mixed 

1 pint of heavy cream 
% pound of candied pineapple 
Yolks of six eggs 

Shell the chestnuts, scald and remove the 
brown skins, cover with boiling water and boil 
until they are tender, not too soft, and press 
them through a sieve. Shell, blanch and pound 
the almonds. Cut the fruit into tiny pieces. Put 
the sugar and water in a saucepan, stir until the 
sugar is dissolved, wipe down the sides of the 
pan, and boil without stirring until the syrup 
forms a soft ball when dropped into ice water. 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 47 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until very light, add 
them to the boiling syrup, and stir over the fire 
until the mixture again boils; take it from the 
fire, and with an ordinary egg beater, whisk the 
mixture until it is cold and thick as sponge cake 
batter. Add the fruit, the chestnuts, almond 
paste, a teaspoon ful of vanilla and, if you use it, 
four tablespoonfuls of sherry. Turn the mixture 
into the freezer, and, when it is frozen, stir in 
the cream whipped to a stiff froth. The mixture 
may now be repacked in the can, or it may be 
put into small molds or one large mold, and re- 
packed for ripening. 

If packed in a large mold, this will serve 
fifteen persons; in the small molds or paper 
cases, it will serve eighteen persons. 



NESSELRODE PUDDING, AMERICANA 

1 small bottle, or sixteen preserved marrons 
1 quart of cream 
4 ounces of sugar 
4 tablespoonfuls of sherry 
1 tablespoonful of vanilla 
Yolks of six eggs 

Put half the cream in a double boiler over 
the fire; when hot, add the eggs and sugar 
beaten until light. Cook a minute, and cool. 
When cold, add one small bottle of marrons 



48 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

broken into quarters and the syrup from the 
bottle, the sherry and vanilla. Freeze, stirring 
slowly. When frozen, stir in the remaining 
cream whipped to a stiff froth. Pack in small 
molds in salt and ice as directed. These should 
freeze three hours at least. 

This will make twelve small molds. 



ORANGE SOUFFLE 

1 quart of cream 

1 pint of orange juice 
y 2 box of gelatin 
54 pound of sugar 
Yolks of six eggs 

Cover the gelatin with a half cupful of cold 
water and soak for a half hour. Add a half 
cupful of boiling water, stir until the gelatin is 
dissolved, and add the sugar and the orange 
juice. Beat the yolks of the eggs until very 
light. Whip the cream. Add the uncooked 
yolks to the orange mixture, strain in the gela- 
tin, stand the bowl in cold water and stir slowly 
until the mixture begins to thicken ; stir in care- 
fully the whipped cream, turn it in a mold or 
an ice cream freezer, pack with salt and ice, and 
stand aside three hours to freeze. This should 
not be frozen as hard as ice cream, and must not 
be stirred while freezing. Make sure, however, 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 49 

that the gelatin is thoroughly mixed with the 
other ingredients before putting the mixture into 
the freezer. 

This will serve twelve people. 

By changing the flavoring, using lemon in 
the place of orange, or a pint of strawberry juice, 
or a pint of raspberry and currant juice, an end- 
less variety of souffles may be made from this 
same recipe. These may be served plain, or with 
Montrose Sauce. 

PLOMBIERE 

1 quart of cream 
y 2 pound of Jordan almonds 
y 2 pound of sugar 
J /> pound of Sultana raisins 
Yolks of six eggs 

Blanch the almonds and pound them to a 
paste, or use a half pound of ordinary almond 
paste. Put half the cream in a double boiler over 
the fire, add the yolks and sugar beaten to a 
cream, add the almond paste. Stir until the mix- 
ture begins to thicken, take from the fire and beat 
with an egg beater for three minutes. Strain 
through a fine sieve, and, when very cold, add 
the Sultanas and the remaining cream. Freeze, 
turning the dasher very slowly at first and more 
rapidly toward the end. Remove the dasher, 
scrape down the sides of the can and pull the 



50 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

cream up, making a well in the centre. Fill this 
well half full with apricot jam, cover over the 
pudding mixture, making it smooth ; repack, and 
stand aside for two hours. 

Serve plain or with a cold Puree of Apricots. 

This will serve twelve persons. 



QUEEN PUDDING 

Make a Strawberry Water Ice or Frozen 
Strawberries. Pack a three quart mold in a 
bucket or tub of ice and salt. Line the mold 
with the Strawberry Ice, fill the centre with Tutti 
Frutti, using half recipe ; put on the lid, bind the 
seam, and stand aside for at least two hours. 
When ready to serve, turn the pudding from the 
mold into the centre of a large round dish, gar- 
nish the base with whipped cream pressed through 
a star tube, and garnish the pudding with can- 
died cherries. Here and there around the base 
of the whipped cream place a marron glace. 

This will serve fifteen persons. 



ICE CREAM CROQUETTES 

Mold vanilla ice cream with the ordinary 
pyramid ice cream spoon, roll them quickly in 
grated macaroons, and serve on a paper mat. 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 51 

ICED RICE PUDDING WITH A COMPOTE 
OF ORANGES 

For the Pudding 

H cupful of rice 
1 quart of cream 

1 pint of milk 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract or 

]/ 2 vanilla bean 
y 2 pound of sugar 
Yolks of six eggs 

Rub the rice in a dry towel, and put it over 
the fire in a pint of cold water. Bring to a boil 
and boil twenty minutes ; drain, add the milk and 
cook it in a double boiler a half hour. While 
this is boiling, whip the cream to a stiff froth, 
and stand it in a cold place until wanted. Press 
the rice through a fine sieve and return it to the 
double boiler. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the 
sugar until light, stir them into the hot rice, and 
stir and cook about two minutes, until the mix- 
ture begins to thicken. Take from the fire, add 
the vanilla, and stand aside until very cold. 
When cold, freeze, turning the dasher rapidly 
toward the last. Remove the dasher and stir in 
the whipped cream. Scrape down the sides of 
the can, and smooth the pudding. Put on the lid, 
fasten the hole in the top with a cork, put over 
the top a piece of waxed paper, and pack with 
salt and ice. Stand aside for at least two or three 



52 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

hours. Be very careful that the hole in the tub 
is open, to prevent the salt water from overflow- 
ing the can. 

For the Compote 

I dozen nice oranges 
I pound of sugar 
x /2 cupful of water 
i teaspoonful of lemon juice 

Put the sugar and water over the fire to 
boil, wipe down the sides of the pan, skim the 
syrup, add the lemon juice, and boil until it spins 
a thread. Peel the oranges, cut them into halves 
crosswise, and with a sharp knife remove the 
cores. Dip one piece at a time into the hot syrup 
and place them on a platter to cool. Pour over 
any syrup that may be left. 

This syrup must be thick, but not sufficiently 
thick to harden on the oranges. 

To dish the pudding, lift the can from the 
ice, wipe it carefully on the outside, wrap the 
bottom of the mold in a towel dipped in boiling 
water, or hold it half an instant under the cold 
water spigot. Then with a limber knife or spat- 
ula loosen the pudding from the side of the can 
and shake it out into the centre of a large round 
plate. Heap the oranges on top of the pudding, 
making them in a pyramid, put the remaining 
quantity around the base of the pudding, pour 
over the syrup and send to the table. 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 53 

This pudding sounds elaborate and trouble- 
some, but it is exceedingly palatable and one of 
the handsomest of all frozen dishes. 

This will serve twenty persons. In ice 
cream stem dishes it will serve twenty-four per- 
sons. 

SULTANA ROLL 

V/z quarts of cream 

Yz pound of granulated sugar 

Yi cupful of Sultanas 
4 tablespoonfuls of sherry 
2 ounces of shelled pistachio nuts 
1 teaspoonful of almond extract 

10 drops of green coloring 

Put one pint of cream and the sugar over 
the fire in a double boiler, and stir until the sugar 
is dissolved; take from the fire, and, when cold, 
add a pint of the remaining cream. Chop the 
pistachio nuts very fine or put them through the 
meat grinder, add them to the cream and add 
the flavoring and coloring, and freeze. Whip the 
remaining pint of cream to a stiff froth. Sprinkle 
the Sultanas with sherry and let them stand while 
you are freezing the pudding. When the pudding 
is frozen, remove the dasher and line a long round 
mold with the pistachio cream. If nothing better 
is at hand, use pound baking powder cans, and line 
them to the depth of one inch. Add the Sultanas 
to the whipped cream and stir in two tablespoon- 



54 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

fuls of powdered sugar. Fill the spaces in the 
cans with the whipped cream mixture, and put 
another layer of the pistachio cream over the top. 
Put on the lids, wrap each can in waxed paper, 
and put them down into coarse salt and ice, to 
freeze for at least two hours. At serving time, 
turn the puddings on to a long platter, fill the 
bottom of the platter with Claret or Strawberry 
Sauce, and send to the table. 

This quantity cut into half inch slices will 
serve twelve persons. 



SULTANA PUDDING 

i pint of milk 
I pint of cream 
6 ounces of sugar 
I cupful of Sultanas 
i teaspoonful of vanilla 
4 tablespoonfuls of sherry (if you use it) 
Yolks of four eggs 

Put the milk in a double boiler, and, when 
hot, add the yolks and sugar beaten together ; stir 
until this begins to thicken. Take from the fire, 
add the vanilla, and, when cold, freeze it. Put 
the sherry over the Sultanas. Garnish the bot- 
tom of a melon mold with the Sultanas, pack it 
in coarse ice and salt ready for the frozen pud- 
ding. Remove the dasher from the frozen mix- 
ture, and stir in the cream that has been whipped 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 55 

to a stiff froth. Add the remainder of the Sul- 
tanas and pack at once into the mold ; put on the 
lid and fasten as directed in other recipes. 

This may be served plain or with whipped 
cream garnished with Sultanas. 

This will serve eight persons. 

THE MERRY WIDOW 

Dish a pyramid of vanilla ice cream into a 
stem individual ice cream glass. Garnish the 
base of the ice cream with fresh strawberries, dust 
the cream thickly with toasted pinon nuts, and 
baste the whole with four tablespoonfuls of Claret 
Sauce flavored with two tablespoonfuls of rum. 

TUTTI FRUTTI PUDDING 

1 pint of milk 
1 pint of cream 
y 2 pint of mixed candied fruits 
4 eggs 
1 cupful of sugar 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

2 tablespoonfuls of sherry 
1 tablespoonful of brandy 

Put the milk over the fire in a double boiler, 
add the yolks of the eggs and the sugar beaten 
together until light. When the mixture begins 
to thicken, take it from the fire and stand it aside 
until perfectly cold. Add all the flavorings. 
When the mixture is cold, add the cream, and 



56 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

partly freeze it ; then add the fruit, and freeze to 
the right consistency. This should be packed at 
least two hours to ripen. 

This will serve eight persons. 

TUTTI FRUTTI, ITALIAN FASHION 

y 2 pound of sugar 

i pint of water 

i pint of cream 
]/ 2 pint of chopped mixed candied fruits 

i teaspoonful of vanilla 

4 tablespoonfuls of sherry 
Yolks of six eggs 

Pour the sherry over the fruit. Beat the 
yolks until creamy. Put the sugar and water over 
the fire, stir until the sugar is dissolved, and boil 
five minutes ; add the yolks of the eggs, beat until 
it again reaches the boiling point, take from the 
fire and beat until cold and thick. Add the cream, 
the fruit and the vanilla. Freeze as directed on 
page 7. 

This is usually served in small ice cream 
glasses garnished with whipped cream, or may 
be served plain. In the absence of ice cream 
glasses, use ordinary punch glasses. 

This will fill ten glasses. 

LALLA ROOKH 

Fill a lemonade or ice cream glass two-thirds 
full of vanilla ice cream. Make a little well in 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 57 

the centre and fill the space with rum and sherry 
mixed. Allow four tablespoonfuls of rum and 
six of sherry to each half dozen cups. 

PEACHES MELBA 

Dish a helping of vanilla ice cream in the 
centre of the serving plate, place in the centre of 
the ice cream a whole brandied peach, press it 
down into the ice cream, baste over four table- 
spoonfuls of Claret Sauce, and serve. 

LILLIAN RUSSELL 

Cut into halves small very cold cantaloupes. 
Remove the seeds; fill the centres of the half 
melons with vanilla ice cream, and garnish with 
whipped cream pressed through a small star tube. 
Dish the halves on paper mats on a dessert plate, 
and send to the table. 

ARROWROOT CREAM 

1 quart of milk 

6 ounces of sugar 

1 level tablespoonful of arrowroot 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla 

Moisten the arrowroot with a little cold milk ; 
put the remaining milk in a double boiler; when 
hot, add the arrowroot and cook ten minutes ; add 



58 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

the sugar, take from the fire, and add the vanilla. 
When perfectly cold, freeze as directed on page 7. 
This will serve six persons. 

ENGLISH APRICOT CREAM 

y 2 pint of apricot jam 

1 pint of cream 
Vz pint of milk 

2 tablespoonfuls of noyau 
Juice of one lemon 

Mix the jam and the cream, then carefully 
add the noyau and the lemon juice. Press 
through a fine sieve, add the milk, and freeze as 
directed on page 7. 

This will serve six persons. 

FROZEN CUSTARD 

1 quart of milk 

6 ounces of sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla 
Yolks of four eggs 

Put the milk in a double boiler, add the 
yolks of the eggs and the sugar beaten together, 
and stir until the mixture thickens. Take from 
the fire, and, when cold, add the vanilla. Turn 
into the freezer and freeze as directed. A little 
chopped conserved fruit may be added at last 
when the dasher is removed. Chopped black wal- 
nuts may also be added. 

This will serve six persons. 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 59 

GELATIN ICE CREAM 

I quart of milk 
y 2 pint of cream 
6 ounces of sugar 

i tablespoonful of granulated gelatin 
2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla 

Cover the gelatin with a little cold milk and 
stand it aside for fifteen minutes. Put the re- 
maining milk in a double boiler; when scalding 
hot, add the sugar and the gelatin; stir until the 
sugar is dissolved, take from the fire, and, when 
perfectly cold, add the cream and the vanilla. 
Freeze as directed on page J. 

This will serve six persons. 



FROZEN PLUM PUDDING 

2 pint cans of condensed milk 
y 2 cupful of seeded raisins 
y 2 pound of sugar 

24 almonds that have been blanched and 
chopped 

2 ounces of shredded citron 
y A pound of candied cherries 

2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla 

2 tablespoonfuls of sherry 
y 2 pint of water 

Yolks of four eggs 

Put milk in a double boiler over the fire, and 
stir until the milk is thoroughly heated ; add the 
yolks of the eggs and the sugar beaten together, 



60 Mrs. Rorer's Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

cook until it begins to thicken, take from the fire 
and strain. When cold, add the citron, raisins, 
the cherries cut into quarters, the almonds, vanilla 
and sherry. When this is perfectly cold, freeze 
as directed. Do not repack or allow the mixture 
to stand in the freezer more than a half hour. 

Serve plain or with Montrose Sauce. 

One quart of good rich milk may be used in 
place of the condensed milk. 

This will serve twelve persons. 



CHARLOTTE GLACE 

Make a quart of vanilla ice cream and stir 
into it a pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth. 
Line round stiff paper charlotte boxes with lady 
fingers, fill them with the iced mixture, and place 
them at once in a can or bucket packed in salt and 
ice to freeze for one or two hours. 

This quantity will fill twelve boxes. 

MAPLE PANACHEE 

Fill stem ice cream dishes half full with cara- 
mel ice cream; on top put a layer of vanilla ice 
cream. Smooth it down and dust thickly with 
toasted pecan nuts chopped fine. 

A pint of each cream will fill six dishes. 



Frozen Puddings and Desserts 61 

GERMAN CHERRY BISCUITS 

Fill paper cases half full of pineapple water 
ice. Put over a layer of candied cherries chopped, 
then a layer of vanilla ice cream; smooth it 
quickly, place a marron glace in the centre, and 
garnish the cream with a meringue made from 
the whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar. Dust this with grated maca- 
roons, and send to the table. Make the meringue 
and grate the macaroons before dishing the ice 
cream. 

A pint of each cream will fill eight cases. 

FRUIT SALAD, ICED 

Make one quart of lemon or orange water 
ice and stand it aside for at least one or two 
hours to ripen. Make a fruit salad from stemmed 
strawberries, sliced bananas cut into tiny bits, a 
few very ripe cherries, a grated pineapple if you 
have it, and the pulp of four or five oranges. 
After the water ice is frozen rather hard, pack 
it in a border mold, put on the lid or cover and 
bind the seam with a strip of muslin dipped in 
paraffin or suet, and repack to freeze for three 
or four hours. Sweeten the fruit combination, 
if you like, add a tablespoonful or two of brandy 
and sherry, and stand this on the ice until very 
cold. At serving time, turn the mold of water 



62 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, £sfc. 

ice on to a round compote dish, quickly fill the 
centre with fruit salad, garnish the outside with 
fresh roses or violets, and send at once to the 
table. 

This will serve eight or ten persons at 
luncheon. 

COUPE ST. JACQUE 

Make a fruit salad as in preceding recipe. 
Make a pint of orange or strawberry ice. At 
serving time fill parfait or ice cream glasses half 
full of the fruit salad, fill the remaining half with 
water ice, smooth it over, garnish the top with 
whipped cream, put a maraschino cherry in the 
centre, and serve. Other fruits may be used for 
the salad. 

This should make twelve tumblers. 



Water Ices 
and Sherbets or Sorbets 



A water ice is a mixture of water, fruit 
and sugar, frozen without much stirring; in 
fact, a water ice can be made in an ordinary 
tin kettle packed in a bucket. If an ice cream 
freezer is used, the stirring should be done 
occasionally. Personally, I prefer to pack 
the can, put on the lid and fasten the hole 
with a cork rather than to use the dasher, 
stirring now and then with a paddle. If you 
use the crank, turn slowly for a few minutes, 
then allow the mixture to stand for five min- 
utes; turn slowly again, and again rest, and 
continue this until the water ice is frozen. A 
much longer time is required for freezing 
water ice than ice cream. 

When the mixture is thoroughly frozen, 
take out the dasher, scrape down the sides 
of the can, give the ice a thorough beating 
with a wooden spoon ; put the cork in the lid 
of the can, draw the water from the tub, re- 
pack it with coarse ice and salt, cover it with 
paper and a piece of blanket or burlap, and 

63 



64 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, £ste. 

stand aside for two or three hours to ripen 
just as you would ice cream. 

When it is necessary to make water ice 
every day or two, it is best to make a syrup 
and stand it aside ready for use. 

Fruit jellies may be used in the place of 
fresh fruits, allowing one pint of jelly, the 
juice of one lemon and a half pound of sugar 
to each quart of water. 

When water ice is correctly frozen, it has 
the appearance of hard wet snow. It must 
not be frothy nor light. 

A sherbet or sorbet is made from the 
same mixture as a water ice, stirred constant- 
ly while it is freezing, and has a meringue, 
made from the white of one egg and a table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar, stirred in after 
the dasher is removed. 



APPLE ICE 

1 pound of tart apples 
1 cupful of sugar 
1 pint of water 
Juice of one lemon or lime 

Quarter and core the apples, but do not pare 
them. Slice them, add the water, cover and stew 
until tender, about five minutes. Press through a 



Water Ices and Sherbets or Sorbets 65 

sieve, add the sugar and lemon juice. When 
cold, freeze as directed. Serve in lemonade 
glasses at dinner with roasted duck, goose or 
pork. 

This will serve six persons. 



APRICOT ICE 

1 quart can of apricots 
Yi. cupful of sugar 
1 pint of water 
Juice of one lemon 

Press the apricots through a sieve, add all 
the other ingredients, and serve. This : s nice 
served in lemonade glasses for afternoon tea. 
Pass sweet wafers. 

This will serve eight persons. 



CHERRY ICE 

2 full quarts of sour cherries 
1 pound of sugar 
1 quart of water 

Stew the cherries in the water for ten min- 
utes and press through a sieve, add the sugar, 
and, if you have it, two drops of Angostura Bit- 
ters; when cold, freeze it as directed on page 63. 

This will serve ten persons. 



66 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, £ste. 

CURRANT WATER ICE 

i pint of currant juice 

i pound of sugar 

i pint of boiling water 

Add the sugar to the water, and stir over 
the fire until it is dissolved. Boil five minutes, 
take from the fire; when cool, add the currant 
juice. When cold, freeze as directed on page 63. 

This will serve six persons. 

CURRANT AND RASPBERRY WATER ICE 

1 pint of currant juice 
1 pint of raspberry juice 
1 pint of water 
54 pound of sugar 

Add the sugar to the water, stir until boiling, 
boil five minutes, and, when cool, add the rasp- 
berry and currant juices, and freeze as directed. 

This will serve six persons ; in punch glasses, 
eight persons. 

GRAPE WATER ICE 

1 pint of grape juice 
1 quart of water 
1 pound of sugar 
Juice of one lemon 

Boil the sugar and water together for five 
minutes, take from the fire, add the lemon juice, 



Water Ices and Sherbets or Sorbets 67 

and skim. When cold, add the grape juice, and 
freeze as directed. 

If fresh grapes are to be used, select Musca- 
tels or Concords. Pulp the grapes, boil the pulps, 
press them through a sieve, and add the skins 
and the pulps to the sugar and water. Boil five 
minutes, press as much as possible through a 
sieve, and freeze. 

Thi9 will serve eight persons. 

LEMON WATER ICE 

4 large lemons 
1 quart of water 
iJ4 pounds of sugar 

Grate the yellow rind of two lemons into the 
sugar, add the water, stir over the fire until the 
sugar is dissolved, and boil for five minutes. 
Strain, and stand aside to cool. When cold, add 
the juice of the lemons, and freeze as directed 
on page 63. 

This will serve six persons. 

GINGER WATER ICE 

6 ounces of preserved ginger 

4 lemons 

1 quart of water 

1 pound of sugar 

Put four ounces of the ginger through an 
ordinary meat grinder, and cut the remaining 



r 



68 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

two ounces into fine bits. Boil the sugar and 
water together for five minutes, and add the 
lemon juice and ground ginger. Take from the 
fire, add the bits of ginger, and, when cold, freeze 
as directed. Ginger water ice is better for a two 
hour stand, after it is frozen. Nice to serve with 
roasted or braised beef. 

This will serve six persons; in small punch 
glasses, eight. 



MILLE FRUIT WATER ICE 

y 2 pint of grape juice 
6 lemons 
i orange 

4 tablespoonfuls of sherry 
Yz pound of preserved cherries or pine- 
apple, or both mixed 
\y 2 pounds of sugar 
I quart of water 

Grate the yellow rind of the orange and one 
lemon into the sugar, add the water, stir over the 
fire until the sugar is dissolved, boil five minutes, 
and strain. Add the fruit cut into small pieces, 
the juice of the orange and the lemons; when 
cold, add the grape juice and sherry, and freeze, 
using the dasher. Do not stir rapidly, but stir 
continuously, as slowly as possible. When the 
mixture is frozen, remove the dasher and repack 
the can ; ripen at least two hours. 



Water Ices and Sherbets or Sorbets 69 

This is one of the nicest of all the water ices, 
and may be served on the top of Coupe St. Jacque, 
or at dinner in sherbet glasses with roasted veal 
or beef. 

This will serve ten persons. 



ORANGE WATER ICE 

12 large oranges 
1 pound of sugar 
1 quart of water 

Grate the yellow rind from three oranges 
into the sugar, add the water, boil five minutes, 
and strain ; when cold, add the orange juice, and 
freeze as directed for water ices. 

This will serve ten persons. 



POMEGRANATE WATER ICE 

12 good sized pomegranates 
1 pint of water 
1 pound of sugar 

Cut the pomegranates into halves, remove 
the seeds carefully from the inside bitter skin; 
press them with a potato masher in the colander, 
allowing the juice to run through into a bowl; 
be careful not to mash the seeds. Add the sugar 
to the juice and stir until it is dissolved; then 
add the water, cold, and freeze. 



70 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

This is very nice to serve with a meat course, 
and also nice for the garnish of a fruit salad. 
This will serve six persons. 



PINEAPPLE WATER ICE 

2 ripe pineapples or 
i quart can of grated pineapple 
i quart of water 
i l / 2 pounds of sugar 
Juice of two lemons 

Pare the pineapples, remove the eyes, and 
grate the fruit into the water. Add the sugar 
and lemon juice, boil five minutes, and, when cold, 
freeze as directed on page 63. 

This will serve ten persons. 



STRAWBERRY WATER ICE 

1 quart of strawberries 
1 pound of sugar 
1 quart of water 
Juice of two lemons 

Add the sugar and the lemon juice to the 
stemmed strawberries, let them stand one hour; 
mash them through a colander, and then, if you 
like, strain through a fine sieve. Add the water, 
and freeze as directed on page 63. 

This will serve eight persons. 



Water Ices and Sherbets or Sorbets J I 

RASPBERRY WATER ICE 

i quart of red raspberries 
i pound of sugar 
i quart of water 
Juice of two lemons 

Add the sugar and the lemon juice to the 
raspberries, stir and stand aside one hour. Press 
through a sieve, add the water, and freeze as 
directed on page 63. 

This will serve eight persons. 



ROMAN PUNCH 

Make one quart of lemon water ice. When 
ready to serve, fill it into small punch glasses, 
make a little well in the centre and fill the space 
with good Jamaica rum. 

This will serve eight persons. 



SOUR SOP SHERBET OR ICE 

Squeeze the juice from one large sour sop, 
strain, and add four tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
boiled a moment with four tablespoonfuls of 
water. Freeze as directed on page 63. 

A quart of sour sop when frozen will serve 
six persons. 



72 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

CRANBERRY SHERBET 

I pint of cranberries 
x /i pound of sugar 
V* pint of water 

Add the water to the cranberries, cover, bring 
to a boil; press through a colander, return them 
to the fire, add the sugar, and stir until the sugar 
dissolves. Take from the fire, and, when cold, 
freeze, stirring slowly all the while. 

Serve with the meat course at dinner. 

This will serve eight persons. 

CUCUMBER SORBET 

2 large cucumbers 
2 tart apples 
I pint of water 
i teaspoonful of sugar 
x /2 teaspoonful of salt 
i tablespoonful of gelatin 
i saltspoonful of black pepper 
Juice of one lemon 

Peel the cucumbers, cut them into halves and 
remove the seeds. Dissolve the gelatin in a half 
cupful of hot water. Grate the flesh of the cucum- 
bers ; grate the apples, add them to the cucumbers, 
and add all the other ingredients. Freeze as you 
would ordinary sherbet. 

Serve in tiny glasses, with boiled cod or 
halibut. 

This will fill eight small stem glasses. 



Water Ices and Sherbets or Sorbets 73 

GOOSEBERRY SORBET 

y 2 pint of gooseberry jam 
4 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
I pint of water 
Juice of one lemon 

Mix all the ingredients together and freeze, 
turning slowly all the while. Serve in small 
glasses. 

This is usually served at Christmas dinner 
with goose. 

This will serve six persons. 



ORANGE SHERBET 

i pint of orange juice 
2 tablespoonfuls of gelatin 
Yi pound of sugar 
i pint of water 

Cover the gelatin with an extra half cupful 
of cold water and soak for a half hour. Add the 
sugar to the pint of water and stir it over the fire 
until it boils; add the grated yellow rind of two 
oranges and the juice ; strain through a fine sieve 
and freeze, turning the freezer slowly all the while. 
Remove the dasher, stir in a meringue made from 
the white of one tgg, and repack to ripen for 
an hour at least. 

This will serve six persons. 



74 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

MINT SHERBET 

2 dozen stalks of spearmint 
H pound of sugar 
I quart of water 
Juice of three lemons 

Strip the leaves from the stalks of the mint, 
chop them to a pulp and rub them with the sugar. 
Add the water, bring to a boil, boil five minutes, 
and, when cold, add three drops of green coloring 
and the juice of the lemons; strain and freeze, 
turning slowly all the while. 

Serve at dinner with mutton or lamb. 

This will serve six persons; in small stem 
glasses, eight persons. 



TOMATO SORBET OR SHERBET 

i quart can or 
12 fresh tomatoes 
I slice of onion 
I blade of mace 
I saltspoonful of celery seed 
I pint of water 
I teaspoonful of salt 
I teaspoonful of paprika 
I tablespoonful of gelatin 

Juice of one lemon 

A dash of cayenne 

Add all the ingredients to the tomatoes, stir 
over the fire until the mixture reaches the boiling 



Water Ices and Sherbets or Sorbets 75 

point, boil five minutes, and strain through a 
fine sieve. When this is cold, freeze according 
to the rule for sherbets, turning slowly all the 
time. 

Serve in punch glasses at dinner as an accom- 
paniment to roasted beef, or venison, or saddle of 
mutton. 

If fresh tomatoes are used, simply cut them 
into halves and cook them without peeling. 

This will fill nine or ten punch glasses. 



Frozen Fruits 

Frozen fruits are mixed and frozen the 
same as water ices, that is, they are only 
stirred occasionally while freezing, but the 
fruit must be mashed or it will form little 
balls of ice through a partly frozen mixture. 
The only difference between a water ice and 
a frozen fruit is that the mixture is not 
strained, and more fruit and less water is 
used. If canned fruits are used, and these 
recipes followed, cut down the sugar. Cream 
may be used in place of water with sub-acid 
fruits. 

FROZEN APRICOTS 

i quart of apricots 

2 tablespoonfuls of gelatin 

I cupful of sugar 

I pint of cream 

Drain the apricots from the can, mash them 
through a colander, add the sugar and stir until 
the sugar is dissolved. Cover the gelatin with 
a half cupful of cold water and soak for a half 
hour. Stand it over hot water, stir until dissolved, 
add it to the apricot mixture, and freeze. When 
frozen, remove the dasher and stir in the cream 
7 6 



Frozen Fruits 77 

whipped to a stiff froth. Repack and stand aside 
two hours to ripen. 

This will serve ten persons. 

FROZEN BANANAS 

12 large ripe bananas 

i pound of sugar 
y 2 pint of water 

I pint of cream 
Juice of two lemons 

Peel the bananas and mash them through 
a colander. Add the sugar to the water, and boil 
five minutes; when cold, add the lemon juice and 
the bananas. Put the mixture into a freezing 
can, stir slowly until frozen. Remove the dasher 
and stir in carefully the cream whipped to a 
stiff froth. 

This will serve ten or twelve persons. 

FROZEN CHOCOLATE 

i quart of milk 
3 ounces of chocolate 
2/3 cupful of sugar 
i pint of water 
y 2 pint of cream, whipped 
I teaspoonful of vanilla 

Grate the chocolate and put it in a double 
boiler with the water and sugar; let the water 
in the surrounding boiler boil fifteen minutes, 



78 Mrs. Rorer's Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

beat well, and add the milk. Stir until thoroughly 
mixed, and the milk is very hot. Take from the 
fire, add the vanilla, and when the mixture is 
cold, freeze, turning slowly all the while. Serve 
in chocolate cups with the whipped cream on top. 
This will fill nine chocolate cups. 



FROZEN PINEAPPLE 

2 large pineapples 
I quart of water 
I pound of sugar 
Juice of one lemon 

Peel the pineapples and grate them. Add 
the sugar to the water, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, boil five minutes and cool; add the 
pineapple and lemon juice, and freeze, turning 
the freezer slowly. 

This will serve eight or ten persons. 



FROZEN COFFEE 

i quart of cold water 
y 2 pound of sugar 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls of 
finely ground coffee 
Yz pint of cream 

Put the coffee and the water in a double 
boiler over the fire, and let the water in the sur- 



Frozen Fruits 79 

rounding boiler boil for at least twenty minutes 
after it begins to boil. Strain through two thick- 
nesses of cheese cloth, add the sugar, stir until 
the sugar is dissolved, and stand aside until very 
cold. Add the cream and the unbeaten white of 
one egg. Freeze, turning the freezer slowly. 
This should be the consistency of a soft mush and 
very light. 

Serve in coffee cups, either plain or with 
whipped cream on top. 

This will serve six persons. 



FROZEN PEACHES, No. i 

2 pounds of very ripe peaches 
6 peach kernels 
i pint of water 
J /2 pound of sugar 
Juice of one lemon 

Crack the kernels, chop them fine, add them 
to the sugar, add the water, and boil five minutes ; 
strain and stand aside to cool. Pare the peaches, 
press them through a colander, add them to the 
cold syrup, turn into the freezer, and stir slowly 
until the mixture is frozen. If the peaches are 
colorless, add a few drops of cochineal before 
freezing. 

This will serve eight persons, 



80 Mrs, Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

FROZEN PEACHES, No. 2 

1 quart of peach pulp 
1 pint of cream 
54 pound of sugar 
Juice of one lemon 

Add the lemon juice to the peach pulp, add 
the sugar, and stand aside, stirring every now and 
then until the sugar is dissolved. Freeze the mix- 
ture, stirring slowly; when frozen, remove the 
dasher, and fold in the cream whipped to a stiff 
froth. 

This is one of the nicest ices for afternoon 
or evening collations. 

This will serve eight persons ; in stem glasses, 
ten persons. 

FROZEN RASPBERRIES 

1 quart of raspberries 
Y$ pound of sugar 
1 pint of water 
Juice of one lemon 

Add the sugar and the lemon juice to the 
berries, mash them with a potato masher. Let 
them stand one hour, add the water, and freeze. 

This will serve eight persons. 

FROZEN WATERMELON 

Scrape the centre from a very ripe water- 
melon, chop quickly and press through a colan- 



Frozen Fruits 81 

der. To each pint of this juice, add a half cupful 
of sugar and four tablespoonfuls of sherry. 
Freeze until it is like wet snow. Serve in glasses. 
One pint will fill three stem glasses. 



FROZEN STRAWBERRIES 

i quart of very ripe strawberries 
i pound of sugar 
i pint of water 
Juice of one lemon 

Add the sugar and lemon juice to the ber- 
ries, let them stand one hour. Mash the berries 
through a colander, add the water, and freeze, 
turning the dasher constantly but very slowly. 

This will serve eight persons. 



Frappe 



A frappe is nothing more nor less than a 
water ice partly frozen. For instance, Cafe 
Frappe is a partly frozen coffee. The mix- 
ture looks like wet snow. A Champagne 
Frappe is champagne packed in salt and ice 
and the bottles agitated until the champagne 
is partly frozen. 



Parfait 

A parfait is a dessert made from frozen 

whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. An 

old fashioned parfait was not frozen in an ice 

cream freezer; the mixture was packed at 

once into a mold, the mold packed in salt and 

ice to freeze for two or three hours. To be 

perfect, the mixture must be frozen on the 

outside to the depth of one and a half to two 

inches, with a soft centre. The quick parfait 

given under frozen desserts is now in general 

use. 
82 



Mousse 

A mousse is a parf ait frozen to the centre. 
These mixtures are not smooth like ice cream, 
but are frozen in crystals and to be exactly 
correct, should look like moss when cut. 

BURNT ALMOND MOUSSE 

X A pound of Jordan almonds 
2 ounces of almond paste 
2/3 cupful of powdered sugar 
1 pint of thick cream 
1 teaspoonful of almond extract 

Whip the cream to a very stiff froth. 
Blanch, toast and grind the almonds, putting 
them through an ordinary meat grinder ; rub them 
with the almond paste, adding the extract and 
about two tablespoonfuls of water or sherry. 
Sprinkle the sugar over the whipped cream, and 
then fold in the nut mixture. Pack at once into 
a mold, put on the lid, fasten the seam with a 
strip of muslin dipped in paraffin or melted suet, 
and pack in coarse salt and ice to freeze for two 
or three hours. 

Serve plain or dusted with chopped almonds. 

This will serve six persons. 

33 



84 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, £ste . 

COFFEE MOUSSE 

1 pint of cream 

y 2 cupful of powdered sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls of coffee extract 

Whip the cream to a stiff froth, sprinkle over 
the sugar, add the coffee extract, and, when well 
mixed, pack and freeze. 

This will serve six persons. 



EGYPTIAN MOUSSE 

y 2 cupful of rice 

1 tablespoonful of gelatin 
2/3 cupful of sugar 
I/4 pound of dates 
Yz pint of milk 

I pint of cream 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

Wash the rice, throw it into boiling water, 
boil rapidly twenty minutes ; drain, add the milk, 
and cook in a double boiler fifteen minutes. Add 
the sugar, the gelatin that has been moistened in 
cold water, and the dates chopped. Take from 
the fire, add the vanilla, and when the mixture 
is cold, fold in carefully the whipped cream. 
Freeze as directed in a mold, and serve with cold 
quince jelly sauce. 

This will serve ten persons. 



Mousse 85 

DUCHESS MOUSSE 

4 eggs 

Y 2 cupful of sugar 
1 pint of cream 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

5 drops of cochineal 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar 
until very, very light; fold in the whites of the 
eggs and the flavoring. Stand the bowl in a pan 
of boiling water and beat continuously until the 
ingredients are hot; take from the fire and beat 
constantly for ten minutes. When this is cool, 
fold in the cream whipped to a stiff froth, pack 
and freeze. 

Serve with quince jelly sauce poured over 
the mousse. 

This will serve eight persons. 



PISTACHIO MOUSSE 

4 ounces of pistachio nuts 
I tablespoonful of gelatin 
1 pint of water 
1 pint of cream 
% pound of sugar 
1 teaspoonful of almond extract 
3 drops of green coloring 

Blanch the pistachio nuts and put them 
through a meat grinder. Boil the sugar and 
water for five minutes ; when cool, add the color- 



86 Mrs. Rorers Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

ing, the pistachio nuts, and the gelatin moistened 
in a little cold water. When this is cold, fold in 
the cream beaten to a stiff froth, and freeze in a 
mold as directed. 

If this is not too well mixed the cream will 
separate, which makes the handsomer dessert. 
When the mousse is turned from the mold it will 
then have a solid white base with a rather green, 
beautiful transparent mixture at the top. 

This will serve ten persons. 



RICE MOUSSE WITH A COMPOTE OF 
MANDARINS 

}4 cupful of rice 

i tablespoonful of gelatin 

2/3 cupful of sugar 

1 pint of milk 

1 pint of cream 

J4 pound of candied cherries 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

Wash and boil the rice in water for twenty 
minutes, drain, put it in a double boiler with the 
milk and sugar; stir until the sugar is dissolved, 
cover the kettle and cook slowly for twenty min- 
utes. Press through a sieve, add the vanilla, and 
the gelatin covered with cold water. When this is 
cold, fold in the cream whipped to a stiff froth; 
pack and freeze. 



Mousse 87 

I usually freeze this in the ordinary ice cream 
can; simply remove the dasher, put in the mix- 
ture and pack it to freeze for two or three hours. 

While this is ripening, separate the man- 
darins into carpels. Boil together for five minutes 
one pound of sugar, a half pint of water and the 
juice of one lemon; take from the fire, add at 
once the carpels, stir lightly until they are thor- 
oughly covered with the syrup and stand aside 
until very cold. 

At serving time, wipe the outside of the 
freezing can with a warm towel, turn the mousse 
into the centre of a round dish, heap the carpels 
around the base and over the top in the form 
of a pyramid, pour over the syrup, and send at 
once to the table. 

This will serve twelve persons. 



Sauces for Ice Creams 



HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Yz cupful of cream or condensed milk 

2 ounces of chocolate 

i cupful of sugar 

i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Put all the ingredients into a saucepan and 
stir over the fire until they reach boiling point, 
boil until the mixture slightly hardens when 
dropped into cold water. Add the vanilla, turn 
at once into the sauceboat and send to the table. 
This must be sufficiently thin to dip nicely over 
the ice cream. 

MAPLE SAUCE 

i cupful of sugar 

i teaspoonful of lemon juice 

i cupful of water 

i teaspoonful of maple flavoring 

Put half the sugar in an iron saucepan and 
stand it over the fire until it melts and browns, 
add hastily the water, the remaining sugar and 
the lemon juice, and boil for about two minutes ; 
take from the fire and add the flavoring. This 
may be served plain, or with chopped fruit or 
nuts added. 



Sauces for Ice Creams 89 

CLARET SAUCE 

Boil one cupful of sugar and a half cupful 
of water with a saltspoonful of cream of tartar for 
five minutes. Take from the fire and add one 
cupful of claret, and stand aside until icy cold. 



NUT SAUCE 

1 cupful of sugar 
y 2 cupful of chopped nuts 
1 cupful of water 

1 teaspoonful of caramel 

2 teaspoonfuls of sherry 

Boil the sugar and water with a saltspoonful 
of cream of tartar or a teaspoonful of lemon 
juice for five minutes, take from the fire and add 
all the other ingredients, and stand aside to cool. 



MONTROSE SAUCE 

J /z tablespoonful of granulated gelatin 
J4 cupful of sugar 
% cupful of milk 

1 pint of cream 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

Yolks of 3 eggs 

Cover the gelatin with milk, let it soak a 
half hour, and put it, with the milk, in a double 



go Mrs. Rarer s Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 

boiler over the fire. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
and the sugar together, add them to the hot milk, 
stir about one minute until the mixture begins 
to thicken, take from the fire, and, when cold, 
add the vanilla and the brandy, and, if you like 
it, four tablespoonfuls of sherry. Stand this 
aside until very, very cold. 



ORANGE SAUCE 

y 2 pint of orange juice 
y 2 pint of water 
Yz cupful of sugar 
I tablespoonful of arrowroot 
Whites of three eggs 

Add the sugar to the water, and, when boil- 
ing hot, add the arrowroot moistened. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add gradually 
the hot mixture, beating all the while. Add the 
orange juice, beat again. Turn it into a sauce- 
boat and stand aside until very cold. 



WALNUT SAUCE 

Melt maple sugar with a little water, and 
add to each cupful of syrup a half cupful of 
chopped black walnuts. Maple syrup may also 
be used by adding half the quantity of boiling 
water and the nuts. 



Refreshments for Affairs 



Refreshments for Affairs 

In arranging this matter, I have made 
an earnest effort to be of service to the house- 
wife without or with one maid, as well as 
to those who are fortunate enough to have 
trained help. 

It is, perhaps, unnecessary to say that 
elaborate refreshments are entirely out of 
place at small afternoon or evening cards. 
An ice, with a wafer, or cake and coffee, 
served on card tables, are sufficient. A salad, 
with bread and butter sandwiches and coffee, 
or a salad sandwich with coffee, make a nice 
combination. Hot dishes, even light entrees, 
seem to call for a dessert, or another course 
and coffee. For wedding and other large 
receptions serve a greater variety of dishes — 
jellied meats, boned chicken, salads, sand- 
wiches, ices, cakes and coffee. In winter 
creamed dishes may be served in paper cases 
on the same plate with sajads and other 
cold dishes. Serve coffee in small cups after 
refreshments. 



94 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

Many so called elaborate dishes are quite 
easily made, and entrees are frequently quite 
as good when rewarmed. 

Chicken croquettes may be made and fried 
early in the day, ready to rewarm on brown 
paper in a baking pan in a hot oven ten 
minutes before serving time. Sandwiches 
will keep perfectly well for several hours if 
wrapped in a damp towel and closed in a 
tin bread box. Salad sandwiches are better, 
however, if made as near serving time as 
possible. 

If a large reception is to be given, even 
with good help, prepare as many dishes as 
possible the day before, to avoid confusion on 
the fixed day. 

Refreshments for small affairs need not 
necessarily cost much time or money. A half 
cupful of chopped left-over steak, a couple 
of chops or a bit of chicken or a box of 
sardines, make a good foundation for molds 
of tomato jelly. Served with bread and but- 
ter sandwiches and coffee they are quite 
sufficient for afternoon or evening cards. 

Many of the ices in this book are new 
and attractive. The new sorbets are liked 



Refreshments for Affairs 95 

by those who are always striving for a 
change. Many are old and reliable. 

At large affairs, serve from the dining 
table. 

At card parties, large and small, serve 
on the card tables, using a small tea cloth 
on each table. 

At afternoon teas, serve from the tea table 
in the drawing room. 

At lawn parties, serve from a large table 
on the lawn. Small tables may be placed 
here and there for the convenience of guests. 

Every day afternoon tea may be served, 
in the summer on the porch, in the winter, 
in the living room or library. 

If two dishes only are served, be sure that 
they harmonize with each other and with the 
manner of service. 

Suitable and hygienic combinations are 
always to be considered, but the aesthetic 
side seems to me of equal importance. 

COFFEE FOR LARGE HOME AFFAIRS 

Allow eleven ounces of finely ground cof- 
fee to each gallon of water. This will serve 
twenty five persons with one coffee cup each, 



96 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

and forty persons with after-dinner cups. 
The better way to make a large quantity 
of coffee without an urn is to purchase a 
new wash boiler. Wash it and put in the 
required quantity of water (cold). Weigh 
the coffee and divide it into half pound 
lots. Put each lot in a small cheese cloth 
bag; tie the top of the bag, allowing room 
for the coffee to swell. Put the bags in the 
water an hour before serving time, bring 
slowly to a boil, and then boil rapidly for 
five minutes. Remove the bags at once, 
pressing them well. Keep the coffee very 
hot until it is all served. 

Coffee is not spoiled by being kept at 
boiling point for some time, if the grounds 
are removed. 



Soups 

BOUILLON 

2 pounds of chopped lean beef 
2 quarts of cold water 

1 small onion 
12 cloves 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
2 teaspoonfuls of salt 

12 whole peppercorns 
A dash of cayenne 
Juice of half a lemon 

Put the sugar in the soup kettle, add the 
onion, sliced, and shake until the onion is thor- 
oughly browned and the sugar almost burned; 
add the meat, shake it for a moment, and add 
the water. Cover, bring to boiling point, and 
put over a slow fire to simmer for two hours. 
Add all the seasonings and simmer one hour 
longer. Strain through a colander, pressing the 
meat. Beat the whites of two eggs slightly, 
then whisk them into the warm bouillon, and add 
the juice of the lemon. Bring to boiling point, 
boil rapidly five minutes, let it stand a moment, 
and strain through two thicknesses of cheese 
cloth. This should stand until it is perfectly cold, 
so that every particle of fat may be removed 
from the surface. Reheat to serve. 

This will serve ten persons, using ordinary 
bouillon cups. 

97 



98 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

CLAM BOUILLON 

50 large clams 
2 quarts of water 
12 whole peppercorns 
l A teaspoonful of celery seed 

Wash and scrub the clams thoroughly. Put 
them, a few at a time, in the soup kettle, the 
bottom of which has been covered with a pint 
of boiling water. Boil rapidly, take the clams 
out with a skimmer, and put in another lot, and 
so continue until all the clams have been cooked. 
Remove them from the shells, saving all the 
liquor. Chop and return them, with the liquor 
and remaining water, to the soup kettle. Simmer 
gently a half hour, then add the peppercorns, 
crushed, and the celery seed. Cover the kettle, 
take it from the fire and allow it to stand until 
perfectly cold. Strain through two thicknesses 
of cheese cloth. Reheat to serve. 

This will serve fifteen persons. 



BELLEVUE BOUILLON 

1 quart of plain or chicken bouillon 
1 quart of clam bouillon 
l /2 pint of cream 
Paprika 

This is one of the most elegant of all bouil- 
lons. Heat the bouillons separately, mix them at 
the last minute, pour at once into heated cups, put 



Soups 99 

a tablespoon ful of whipped cream on the top of 
each cup, garnish with a dusting of paprika, and 
send to the table. 

This will serve ten persons; in a pinch, 
twelve, 

CHICKEN BOUILLON 

I four pound fowl 
3 quarts of water 

1 onion 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
I teaspoonful of salt 

I bay leaf 

I saltspoonful of celery seed, or one 

half cupful of chopped celery 
I saltspoonful of black pepper 

Draw the chicken and cut it up as for a 
fricassee. Scald and skin the feet, and crack 
them thoroughly with your cleaver knife. Put 
the sugar in a soup kettle, add the onion, sliced, 
shake over a quick fire until brown, add the 
chicken and the water, bring to boiling point, and 
skim. Simmer gently for two hours. Add all 
the seasonings, simmer one hour longer, and 
strain. Add the juice of half a lemon and the 
whites of two eggs, slightly beaten. Boil rapidly 
five minutes, and strain through two thicknesses 
of cheese cloth. Reheat to serve. This may be 
used in place of beef bouillon, with the clam broth, 
for Bellevue bouillon. 

This will serve twelve persons. 



IOO Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

OYSTER BOUILLON 

50 fat oysters 
2 quarts of water 
12 whole peppercorns 
12 whole allspice 
iy 2 teaspoonfuls of salt 

Drain and wash the oysters. Throw them 
at once in a hot kettle, shake until the gills have 
curled, cover the kettle, and simmer gently for 
fifteen minutes. Drain again, this time saving the 
liquor. Return it to the kettle with the pepper- 
corns and allspice, crushed, and water. Chop the 
oysters with a silver knife, put them back in the 
kettle, simmer gently a half hour, and add the 
salt. Strain through two thicknesses of cheese 
cloth, reheat and serve with whipped cream on 
top of each cup. 

This serves fifteen persons. 

TOMATO PUREE a la RORER 

1 quart can of tomatoes 
y 2 pint of cream 

1 quart of chicken bouillon 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of arrowroot 

1 bay leaf 

1 blade of mace 

1 onion 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 teaspoonful of paprika 

Add the onion, paprika,, mace and bay leaf 
to the tomatoes, boil rapidly five minutes. Mois- 



Soups IOI 

ten the arrowroot with three or four tablespoon- 
fuls of cold water, add it to the hot tomato, 
boil ten minutes, and press through a sieve. Add 
the chicken bouillon, boil ten minutes, add the 
butter, and, when the butter is thoroughly dis- 
solved, turn at once into cups. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of whipped cream on top of each, and serve. 
This will serve ten persons. 



GLAZE 

Glaze is absolutely necessary for fine cooking, 
either for the browning of sweetbreads, birds or 
chickens. 

Cover a half box of gelatin with a half cup- 
ful of cold water to soak for an hour. Put one 
quart of good bouillon, chicken or beef, over 
the fire, and boil it rapidly until reduced to a 
pint; add the gelatin. As soon as the gelatin is 
dissolved, strain the mixture. Put four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar into an iron saucepan, stir 
until it is browned, then add to it slowly the hot 
glaze, stir until it is thoroughly melted, turn it 
into a china or granite receptacle, and stand away 
to cool. Keep this in the refrigerator, and use it 
according to directions. 



Sweetbreads 



SWEETBREADS a la CREME, No. i 

2 pairs of calves' sweetbreads 

i can of mushrooms 

i pint of milk 

4 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

4 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

I level teaspoonful of salt 

I saltspoonful of white pepper 

Wash the sweetbreads and trim them. Throw 
them in a saucepan of boiling water and simmer 
gently for one hour; drain and throw them in 
cold water. The water in which they were boiled 
may be used for stock. When they are thoroughly 
cold, remove the membrane, and pick them into 
small pieces. Rub the butter and flour together 
in a saucepan, add the milk, stir until boiling, add 
the mushrooms, chopped fine, the sweetbreads, 
salt and pepper. Stir until it again reaches the 
boiling point, cover and stand over hot water 
for twenty minutes. Serve in ramekin dishes, 
pate shells or paper cases. This will fill twelve 
cases, or fourteen pate shells. 



Sweetbreads 103 

SWEETBREADS a la CREME, No. 2 

1 pound of fresh mushrooms 

2 pairs of calves' sweetbreads 
y 2 pint of milk 

4 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
4 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
1 teaspoonful of salt 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper 

Wash and stem the mushrooms ; do not peel 
them. With a silver knife cut them into slices. 
Put half the butter in a saucepan, add the mush- 
rooms and half the milk, and the salt and pep- 
per. Cover the saucepan, and stew slowly a half 
hour. Rub the remaining butter and flour to- 
gether; drain the liquor from the mushrooms, 
add it, with the rest of the milk, to the butter and 
flour. Stir until boiling, add the mushrooms and 
sweetbreads that have been boiled and picked 
apart. Cover the saucepan, stand it over hot 
water, or use a double boiler, pushing the boiler 
to the back of the stove for twenty to thirty min- 
utes. The saucepan must be kept closely covered, 
or the aroma of the mushrooms will be lost. 

This will fill sixteen cases, or fourteen pate 
shells, or alone it will serve twelve persons. 



1 04 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for A ffairs 

SWEETBREADS a la BORDELAISE 

1 pair of calves' sweetbreads 
Yz pint of stock 

1 onion 

1 bay leaf 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt 

1 can of mushrooms 

1 teaspoonful of browning or kitchen bouquet 

1 saltspoonful of white pepper 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

Wash the sweetbreads, put them in a sauce- 
pan, add the bay leaf, onion and one pint of cold 
water; bring to boiling point, and simmer gently 
one hour. Save the water in which they were 
boiled. Throw the sweetbreads into cold water, 
remove the membrane and pick them apart. Put 
the butter and flour in a saucepan; when thor- 
oughly mixed, add a half pint of stock in which 
the sweetbreads were boiled, stir until boiling, 
add the mushrooms, drained, and the seasoning. 
Bring to boiling point, and push to the back of 
the fire for ten minutes. Skim off any butter 
that comes to the surface, add the sweetbreads, 
cook gently ten minutes longer, and serve in 
either pate cases, ramekin dishes, or paper cases. 

This will serve eight persons. 



Sweetbreads 105 

BAKED SWEETBREADS 

2 pairs of calves' sweetbreads 

1 can of French peas 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of glaze 
1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 saltspoonful of pepper 

Wash the sweetbreads and soak them in cold 
water; cut them apart and trim them neatly. 
Sprinkle the bottom of a baking pan with a 
chopped onion, put the sweetbreads on top, dust 
them lightly with salt and pepper, baste them 
with one tablespoonful of the butter, melted, and 
run them in a quick oven to bake for twenty 
minutes. Then brush them thoroughly with glaze 
and bake them ten minutes longer. Drain, wash 
and heat the peas, add the remaining butter and 
season them with salt and pepper. Put the peas 
in the bottom of the serving dish, dish the sweet- 
breads in them and send at once to the table. 
These may also be served in individual dishes, 
cutting the sweetbreads in small pieces, so they 
may be eaten with a fork. 

They will serve from four to six people. 
The throat sweetbread may be cut into halves, 
but as a rule one sweetbread is served to each 
person. 



106 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

LAMBS' SWEETBREADS IN PAPER 
CASES 

8 lambs' sweetbreads 
^2 box of gelatin 
i pint of beef stock or chicken bouillor. 
i can of peas 

1 head of celery 

2 lerel tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

y 2 pint of milk 
i lemon 

Hearts of lettuce 
Yolks of two eggs 
Salt and pepper 

Wash the sweetbreads, put them in a sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling water, add two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar and a sliced onion. Cook 
gently for three-quarters of an hour. Drain, put 
them in a baking pan, brush them with butter, add 
a few tablespoonfuls of glaze or stock, put over 
three or four slices of bacon, and cook in the 
oven a half hour, basting three or four times. 
Rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, 
stir until boiling, add two tablespoonfuls of the 
soaked gelatin, a half teaspoonful of salt and a 
little white pepper. Take from the fire and add 
hastily the beaten yolks of the eggs. Cover the 
bottom of a cold baking pan with muffin rings, 
put one sweetbread into each muffin ring. When 
the sauce is a little cool, cover the sweetbreads 



Sweetbreads 107 

thoroughly, filling the rings quite full. Stand 
these away over night in a cold place. 

Dissolve the remaining gelatin in the hot 
bouillon, season, add the lemon juice, and stand 
it aside over night. At serving time, remove the 
contents from the rings and place them in paper 
cases of the same size. Turn the clear aspic out 
on to a towel and cut it into pretty shapes. Deco- 
rate the top of the cases with this aspic, placing a 
sprig of green in the centre. Drain and press the 
cold peas through a sieve, and season them with 
salt and pepper; put this pulp in a pastry bag 
with a star tube, and decorate the top of each 
mold. Serve at once with mayonnaise passed in 
a boat. 

Another way is to fill the bottom of the paper 
cases with finely chopped celery, mixed with may- 
onnaise, and put the sweetbreads on top, omitting 
the peas. If made well, these are exceedingly 
handsome. One "ring" will be served to each 
person. 



108 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

SWEETBREADS a la NEWBURG 

2 pairs of calves' sweetbreads 

i can of mushrooms 

4 hard boiled yolks of eggs 
j/2 pint of milk 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

I tablespoonful of flour 
14 teaspoonful of salt 

i saltspoonful of white pepper 
H saltspoonful of grated nutmeg 
A dash of cayenne 

Cook the sweetbreads as directed in first 
recipe; when cold, pick them apart, rejecting 
the membrane. Rub the butter and flour to- 
gether, add the milk, stir until boiling, and add 
this slowly to the mashed yolks of the eggs. 
Work and stir until you have a perfectly smooth 
paste. Press it through a fine sieve, add the salt, 
pepper, mushrooms and sweetbreads. Stand 
over hot water for twenty minutes, until thor- 
oughly hot. Add, if you use it, four tablespoon- 
fuls of sherry, and serve. 

This will serve ten persons. 



Shell-Fish Dishes 

DEVILED CRABS 

12 crabs, or one pint of crab flake 

4 hard boiled eggs 

2 level tabtespoonfuls of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of soft bread crumbs 

i tablespoonful of flour 

i teaspoonful of salt 

I saltspoonful of grated nutmeg 

i teaspoonful of onion juice 
Y /2 pint of milk 

A dash of cayenne 

Chop the whites of the hard boiled eggs 
very, very fine. Put the yolks through a sieve. 
Rub the butter and flour together, and add the 
milk; stir until boiling, take from the fire, and 
add the bread crumbs and the eggs. Add all the 
seasoning to the crab flake, mix the two together, 
and fill at once into the shells. The shells must 
be quite full, so that there will be no danger of 
the fat being held in the shell. Dip the shells 
in egg, then cover them thickly with bread 
crumbs. It is well to egg and bread crumb the 
upper side again; in fact both dippings may be 
on the upper sides, leaving the shells red under- 
neath. Put these in a frying basket and fry for 
a minute in hot, deep fat. Serve one to each 
person. 

This quantity should fill eight shells. 

109 



1 10 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for A ffairs 

CRAB BACKS a la CARACAS 

i dozen crabs, or six backs and a pint 

of crab flake 
i teaspoonful of salt 
i teaspoonful of onion juice 
A dash of cayenne 

Add the seasoning to the crab flakes, and 
mix without breaking the flakes. Fill the mix- 
ture into the backs, put a teaspoonful of butter 
on the top of each, sprinkle lightly with crumbs, 
and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes, 



CRAB MEAT a la DEWEY 

i pint of crab flake 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
i teaspoonful of salt 
i red and one green pepper 
]/2 pint of chicken stock, or milk 
2 tablespoonfuls of sherry- 
Yolks of two eggs 

Drop the peppers into hot fat just a moment 
and rub off the skin, remove the seeds and chop 
the flesh fine. Put this, with the butter, in a 
saucepan, and shake over the fire until the pep- 
pers are soft. Add the flour, mix, and add the 
stock or milk ; stir until boiling, add the salt and 
pepper and the crab flakes. Do not stir, but heat 
slowly over hot water. When hot, add the yolks 



Shell Fish Dishes in 

of the eggs, beaten with two tablespoon fuls of 
cream. Heat again, just a moment, being care- 
ful not to curdle the eggs, and serve on toast. 

This dish is very nice when made in a 
charing dish, and will serve six people. 



LOBSTER CUTLETS 

i pint of lobster meat 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

4 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

x /2 pint of milk 
i teaspoonful of salt 
i teaspoonful of onion juice 
I saltspoonful of white pepper 

Yi saltspoonful of grated nutmeg 
Yolk of one egg 
A dash of cayenne 

Chop the boiled lobster rather fine with a 
silver knife, and add to it all the seasoning. Rub 
the butter and flour together in a saucepan, add 
the milk, stir until you have a smooth, thick paste, 
add the yolk of the egg, cook a moment longer, 
add the lobster, and turn out to cool. When 
cold, form into cutlet shaped croquettes, dip in 
egg, roll in bread crumbs, and fry in deep hot 
fat. Put a small claw in the end of each cutlet 
to represent the bone. Serve with these either 
cream sauce or sauce tartar. 

This quantity should make eight cutlets. 



1 12 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

LOBSTER NEWBURG 

Make this precisely the same as crabs New- 
burg, using one pint of boiled lobster meat. Cut 
the lobster in cubes of about one inch. Purchase 
one large or two small lobsters. 



OYSTER CROQUETTES 

50 fat oysters 

4 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 teaspoonful of onion juice 
Yi saltspoonful of nutmeg 

I saltspoonful of white pepper 
Yolks of two eggs 

Drain and wash the oysters, throw them 
into a hot kettle, shake until the gills curl and 
the liquid boils. Boil five minutes and drain, 
saving the liquor. There should be a half cupful 
of liquor. Chop the oysters and add them to 
the liquor. Rub the butter and flour together, 
add the oysters and liquor, stir until the mixture 
reaches boiling point, and push to the back of 
the stove where it will cook for ten minutes. 
Add all the seasoning and the yolks of the eggs, 
cook just a minute, and turn out to cool. This 



Sh ell Fish Dishes 113 

must stand either over night, or must be placed 
directly on the ice for at least four hours. When 
cold, form into small cylinder shaped croquettes, 
dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry in deep 
hot fat 

This quantity will make one dozen good 
sized cylinders. 



Poultry and Game Dishes 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

i four pound chicken 
y 2 pint of milk 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
4 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
2 teaspoonfuls of salt 
2 teaspoonfuls of onion juice 
2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley 
i saltspoonful of grated nutmeg 
I saltspoonful of white pepper 
A dash of cayenne 

Draw, truss the chicken, put it into boiling 
water, boil it rapidly for ten minutes, and let it 
simmer until tender. When cold, remove the 
meat, rejecting the bones and skin. Chop the 
meat with a chopping knife; do not put it 
through the meat grinder. When fine, add all 
the seasoning and mix thoroughly. Put the milk 
in a saucepan over the fire, and add the butter 
and flour, rubbed together. Stir and cook until 
you have a smooth paste, add the chicken, mix 
thoroughly, and turn out to cool. When cold, 
form into croquettes, dip in an egg, beaten with 
a tablespoonful of water, roll in dry bread 
crumbs, and fry in deep hot fat. Serve plain, 
or with French peas. 

This will make thirteen large croquettes. 



Poultry and Game Dishes 115 

One pair of thoroughly cooked sweetbreads 
may be chopped with the chicken, or you may 
add a pair of parboiled calf's brains; this in- 
creases quantity, and makes the croquettes more 
creamy. 

This should make sixteen large cylinders or 
pyramids, serving sixteen persons. 

The meat from the chicken after it is chopped 
should measure one quart. Any other meat may 
be substituted for chicken, but could not be used, 
of course, for an elegant affair. 



CHICKEN a la CREME 

The white meat of one cooked chicken 
1 pair of calves' sweetbreads 
1 can of mushrooms 
4 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
4 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
1 pint of milk 
1 teaspoonful of salt 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper 
10 drops of onion juice 
Yolks of two eggs 

Cut the chicken into cubes of a half inch. 
Boil the sweetbreads and pick them apart, reject- 
ing the membrane. Drain and wash the mush- 
rooms, cut them into halves and mix them with 
the sweetbread and chicken. Rub the butter and 
flour together, and add the milk; when boiling, 



1 1 6 Mrs. Rover s Refreshments for Affairs 

add salt, pepper, onion juice and meat. Stand 
this over hot water in a covered saucepan for 
twenty minutes, add the yolks of the eggs, slightly 
beaten, and bring just to boiling point. 

Served in ramekins or paper cases this is 
sufficient for fifteen persons. Served as a sup- 
per or luncheon dish alone, twelve persons, 



CHICKEN a la KING 

The white meat of one chicken 
Y2 can of mushrooms 

i green pepper 
^2 pint of milk 
K teaspoonful of salt 
2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
i saltspoonful of white pepper 
2 tablespoonfuls of sherry- 
Drop the pepper into hot fat for a moment 
to remove the skin, then chop it very fine. Put 
the butter in a saucepan or chafing dish, add the 
pepper, stir until the pepper is soft, add the flour, 
mix and add the milk, stir until boiling, and add 
the salt. Cut the meat into pieces an inch square, 
add them to the hot sauce, add the mushrooms, 
sliced, and, when hot, add the wine and serve. 
This will serve four or five persons. 



Poultry and Game Dishes 117 

BOUDINS a la REINE 

1 pint of chopped cooked chicken 
l / 2 can of mushrooms 

1 can of peas 

2 eggs 

]/2 cupful of bread crumbs 

T / 2 cupful of chicken stock 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 saltspoonful of pepper 

Brush ordinary timbale cups lightly with 
butter, put a mushroom in the centre of the 
bottom, and around the edge a ring of peas. Put 
the stock and bread over the fire, and, when boil- 
ing, add the chicken and seasonings, stir until it 
reaches the boiling point, take from the fire, and 
add the eggs, well beaten. Put this carefully in 
the cups, cover the top with oiled paper, stand 
the cups in a shallow pan partly filled with hot 
water, and cook in the oven about twenty min- 
utes, until the contents are "set" in the centre. 
Heat the remaining quantity of peas, and season 
them with salt and pepper. Turn the boudins on 
a platter, surround them with the hot peas, and 
send them at once to the table. 

This will serve eight persons. 

These may also be served with plain sauce, 
or with Sauce Bechamel. 



1 1 8 Mrs. Rorers Refresh merits for A ffairs 

SAUCE BECHAMEL 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 

Y-z cupful of chicken stock 

y 2 cupful of milk 

y 2 teaspoonful of salt 
i saltspoonful of pepper 
Yolk of one egg 

Rub the butter and flour together, add the 
liquids, stir until boiling, add the salt and pepper, 
stir, add the yolk of an egg, well beaten, pass 
through a fine sieve, and use at once. 



CHICKEN TIMBALE 

The white meat of one chicken 
y 2 pint of soft white bread crumbs 
y 2 cupful of milk 
i teaspoonful of salt 
I saltspoonful of white pepper 
The whites of five eggs 

Put the raw meat of the chicken twice 
through the meat chopper, then put it in a mor- 
tar and pound it to a paste, or work it in a bowl 
with a wooden spoon. Boil the bread and milk, 
stirring constantly; when this is cold, add the 
salt, pepper and four tablespoonfuls of cream; 
work it gradually into the chicken meat. This 
must be a perfectly smooth paste. Add the un- 
beaten whites of two eggs; when they are thor- 
oughly incorporated, fold in the well beaten 



Poultry and Game Dishes 119 

whites of the three eggs. Put at once into an 
oiled Charlotte mold or into small timbale molds. 

The molds may be garnished with mush- 
rooms, or chopped truffles, or peas. Stand them 
in a pan of hot water, cover with oiled paper and 
cook in the oven, small molds twenty-five min- 
utes, a large mold thirty-five. Serve hot, with 
cream mushroom sauce. 

This quantity in small molds should serve 
twelve people; in a large mold, ten. 



CREAM MUSHROOM SAUCE 

1 can of mushrooms 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
z /2 pint of milk 

2 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
Yz teaspoonful of salt 
1 saltspoonful of pepper 

Rub the butter and flour together, and add 
the milk, stir until boiling, add the seasoning, and 
the mushrooms, cut into halves. When hot it 
is ready to use. 



Cold Dishes 

POULET EN BELLEVUE 

Yz box of gelatin 
i pint of chicken stock 
i bay leaf 
i onion 

The white meat of two chickens 

Salt and pepper 

Remove the white meat carefully from two 
boiled chickens ; split the breasts into halves, long 
ways. Cover the gelatin with a half cupful of 
cold water to soak for a half hour. Add the 
seasonings to the stock or bouillon, bring to a 
boil, add the gelatin, and if not clear, clarify 
with the white of an egg. Add the juice of a 
lemon and strain. Take small oblong china or 
tin molds, garnish the bottoms with fancy bits 
of good red pepper and chopped truffles, baste 
over a little of the hot aspic, and let them stand 
until very cold. Cool the remaining aspic, but 
do not allow it to become solid. Put on top of 
each mold a half breast of chicken, dust with 
salt and pepper, pour over the cold aspic and 
stand them aside over night. At serving time 
dip the molds quickly into hot water, turn out 
the cutlets, dish them on luncheon plates, and 
garnish with hearts of lettuce. Pass mayonnaise 
dressing. 



Cold Dishes 121 

This will make eight molds and serve eight 
persons. Use the dark meat for fricassee or stew 
of chicken. 

TOMATOES a l'ALGERIENNE 

The white meat of one chicken 
24 perfect tomatoes 
y A box of gelatin 
y 2 pint of chicken stock 
y 2 pint of cream 

1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste 

3 heads of fine lettuce 
y 2 pint of mayonnaise 

Peel the tomatoes, cut off the stem end and 
scoop out the hard portion and the seeds; put 
the tomatoes on the ice. Put the meat of the 
chicken through the meat grinder, season it with 
the anchovy paste, if you have it, and salt and 
pepper. Soak the gelatin in a half cupful of cold 
water, add the chicken stock, bring to a boil, add 
a half teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and 
the juice of half a lemon. Mix a part of this 
with the chicken. Whip the cream, stir it into 
the chicken mixture, and fill it into the tomatoes, 
making them smooth on top. When the toma- 
toes are very cold and the aspic is cool, but not 
thick, baste just a little over the top, dust thickly 
with chopped parsley and finely chopped almonds, 
and stand them in a cold place for several hours. 
Arrange each tomato in a little nest of lettuce 



122 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

leaves, and pass with them mayonnaise dressing. 
If these are made well, they are the most sightly 
of the small cold dishes, and cost almost nothing. 

This, of course, will be served to twenty- 
four persons. 

Tongue, sardines, lobster, crab meat or cold 
left-over meat may be substituted for chicken. 



GALANTINE OF CHICKEN 

2 chickens 
y 2 pound of boiled ham 
% pound of larding pork 

i can of mushrooms 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt 

i egg 

i pound of lean veal 

2 truffles 

Salt and pepper 

Singe the chickens, and remove the head and 
feet ; place the chicken on the table with the breast 
down. Take a small, sharp-pointed sabatier knife 
and cut the skin from neck to rump right down 
the back bone. Carefully and slowly run the 
knife between the bones and the flesh, keeping 
it always close to the bone. Take out first the 
wings, then loosen the carcass, and then take out 
the legs. Un joint and separate each bone, and 
take it out as you come to it. Do not take the 
small bones from the wings ; they may be cut off. 



Cold Dishes 123 

When you have removed all the flesh from the 
bones, keeping it perfectly whole, and without 
breaking the skin, wipe the skin and put it on 
the table; draw the legs and the wings inside. 
Take all the raw meat from the other chicken, 
rejecting the skin and bones, but you do not have 
to bone this one carefully. Put it in the meat 
grinder, with half the ham, all the veal and half 
the bacon. When chopped, season it with two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, and two saltspoonfuls of 
white pepper; add the egg and mix thoroughly. 
Put a thin layer of this into the boned chicken, 
put in here and there long pieces of the remaining 
ham and bacon, a layer of mushrooms, blocks of 
truffles, then another layer of the forcemeat, and 
so continue until you have used all the ingredi- 
ents. Pull up the skin and sew it down the back, 
making a perfect roll. Tie the neck and rump. 
Roll this in cheese cloth, fasten it securely, and 
sew the cheese cloth so that the roll will be per- 
fect when done. 

Put all the bones in the soup kettle, add a 
sliced onion, a bay leaf, and sufficient cold water 
to come just to the top of the bones. Bring to 
boiling point, and put in the "galantine,'' as the 
chicken roll is called. Cover the kettle, and boil 
continuously for four hours. When done, slightly 
cool, remove the cloth, and stand it away until 
perfectly cold. Strain the water, which should 



1 24 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for A ffairs 

measure two quarts; add to it a box of gelatin 
that has been soaked in a cupful of water for an 
hour. Bring this to boiling point, season it with 
salt and pepper, add the juice of a lemon and the 
whites of two eggs, slightly beaten. Boil five 
minutes, and strain through two thicknesses of 
cheese cloth. Select a long round pudding mold, 
or a regular boned chicken mold, something like 
a large melon mold; baste the mold inside with 
this liquid jelly, decorate it in patterns or uncon- 
ventional designs, using green and red pepper, 
the hard boiled white of tgg and peas. Allow 
the remaining jelly to cool, but not stiffen. 
After you finish the decorations, baste them care- 
fully with cold gelatin and stand the mold on 
ice. Then put in a little more cold jelly, until 
you have a good base upon which to rest the 
"galantine." Put it in, breast side down, and 
pour over the remaining gelatin. Stand in a cold 
place for twenty-four hours. When ready to 
serve, wipe the mold with a warm cloth, and turn 
the "galantine" on to a long platter. Garnish the 
platter with hearts of lettuce. To serve, cut the 
"galantine" in the thinnest possible slices, and 
serve it with a salad, either celery, or mixed 
vegetables, or plain lettuce; or it may be served 
with a sauce tartar or plain mayonnaise dressing. 
This is one of the most elegant of cold 
dishes, and will serve twenty-five persons. 



Cold Dishes 125 

CHICKEN MOUSSE 

1 pint of cooked chopped chicken 
y 2 pint of milk 

2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 level tablespoonful of flour 

1 tablespoonful of granulated gelatin 

1 saltspoonful of white pepper 

y 2 pint of cream 

Rub the butter and the flour together over 
the fire, add the milk, stir until boiling, and add 
the gelatin that has been soaked in a couple of 
tablespoonfuls of cold water for fifteen minutes. 
Add the salt, pepper and chicken, mix thoroughly 
and stand it aside to cool. Beat the cream to a 
stiff froth. Make a half cupful of mayonnaise 
from the yolk of one egg and eight tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil ; stir the cream gradually into the may- 
onnaise and then add it carefully to the cold 
chicken mixture. Turn it into an ordinary melon 
pudding mold, cover closely and stand it in a 
bucket of cracked ice and salt. It is wise to bind 
the cover seam to keep out the salt water. When 
slightly frozen, which will take about two hours, 
remove the lid, turn out the mousse, cover the 
top with first a ring of hard boiled whites, 
chopped fine, then a ring of finely chopped pars- 
ley, inside this a ring of the yolks of the eggs 
pressed through a sieve, and right in the centre a 
sprig of curly parsley. Send at once to the table. 



1 26 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

Lobster, crab flakes and cold roasted game 
may be used according to this recipe. 

This will serve eight persons at a reception. 
At a luncheon only six persons. 



PATE-DE-FOIE-GRAS IN ASPIC 

1 box of granulated gelatin 

1 teaspoonful of beef extract 

1 small onion 

1 bay leaf 

1 blade of mace 

1 truffle 

1 carrot 

1 green pepper 

1 red pepper 

1 lemon 

1 tureen of foie-gras 

Cover the gelatin with a half cupful of cold 
water to soak for a half hour. Put all the vege- 
tables and seasoning in one quart of cold water, 
bring to boiling point, simmer gently twenty 
minutes, add the beef extract, one teaspoonful of 
salt and a saltspoonful of black pepper. Add the 
gelatin, stir until the gelatin is dissolved, and 
strain. Add the juice of the lemon and the 
whites of two eggs, slightly beaten. Bring to 
boiling point, boil rapidly for five minutes, and 
strain through two thicknesses of cheese cloth. 
Cut the peppers into fancy shapes. Chop the truf- 
fle fine. Select a dozen dariole molds, moisten 



Cold Dishes 127 

them in cold water, baste them with the aspic, and, 
when cold, garnish the bottoms handsomely with 
a pepper and truffle. Put in another layer of aspic, 
which must be cold, but not thick; on top of this 
place a slice of pate-de-foie-gras, cover them 
carefully with the aspic, filling the mold to the 
top. Stand these away over night. Serve on 
crisp lettuce leaves, and pass with them a mayon- 
naise. These are the handsomest of all the cold 
aspic dishes. 

A single large mold may be used for ball 
suppers or large receptions. To serve, cut it into 
slices, and pass mayonnaise of celery. 

This will serve twelve persons. 



BONED TURKEY 

Turkey is boned precisely the same as you 
bone a "galantine" of chicken. Use for the stuff- 
ing: 

2 chickens 

1 pound of sausage meat 
1 pound of veal 

3 truffles 

1 can of mushrooms 
1 pound of ham 

Take six hours to cook the turkey. When 
cold put it in a boned turkey mold that has been 
garnished, and fill with aspic. 

Cut in very thin slices to serve thirty persons. 



128 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

BONED QUAIL 

Purchase twenty- four quails. Split them 
down the back and remove the bones, keeping 
your knife close to the bone. Do not break the 
skin nor tear the flesh. Spread them out, skin 
side down, on a board and stuff them with the 
seasoned sausage meat. Put them into shape, 
sew them down the back, cover the breast of 
each with a slice of bacon, put them in a baking 
pan, add a half pint of hot stock, and bake in a 
quick oven forty minutes, dusting with pepper 
and basting frequently. When cold, remove the 
string from the back. 

For a dozen quails use: 

I box of gelatin 

1 quart of milk 

i tablespoonful of grated onion 

2 truffles 

4 level tablespoonfuls of butter 
4 level tablespoonfuls of flour 
2 teaspoonfuls of salt 
i saltspoonful of white pepper 

Soak the gelatin in the milk a half hour. 
Rub the butter and flour together, then add the 
milk and gelatin, stir until boiling, and add all 
the seasoning and strain. Stand aside until cool, 
but not thick. Place the birds on a tin sheet or 
a large platter, and baste them with this cold 
white sauce. As soon as the first basting has 



Cold Dishes 129 

hardened, baste them again. This time decorate 
the breasts with the truffles cut into fancy shapes. 
To serve, arrange them around a large mound of 
mayonnaise of celery. Use either a meat platter, 
or two round chop dishes. Have the breasts of 
the birds down, and the back slightly pressed into 
the salad. In between each bird put a pretty 
bunch of curly parsley, and garnish the top of 
the mound with Spanish peppers cut into strips. 
Serve one to each person. 



Salads 

Salads play a most important part in all 
conventional suppers Chicken, lobster, crab, 
duck, tongue, and lamb salad take the place of 
other meats, although for a large supper there 
is no objection to serving a meat salad following 
a hot course. If one can make a good mayon- 
naise dressing, salads are the easiest of all re- 
freshments, and are most acceptable to the guests. 



MAYONNAISE 

Put the yolks of three eggs in a clean cold 
dish, beat slightly and add slowly, almost drop 
by drop, a half pint or more of salad oil. After 
adding the first half pint, add a half teaspoon ful 
of vinegar now and then to prevent breaking. 
You may add a quart of oil, if you like ; you may 
serve it plain, or stir in at the last moment stiffly 
whipped cream. One quart of mayonnaise will 
hold one quart of whipped cream. For light 
colored salads, as sweetbread and Waldorf, it is 
well to use the whipped cream slightly colored 
with a drop of vegetable green. 



i 3 o 



Salads 131 

SAUCE TARTAR 

Add to a half pint of mayonnaise dressing 
a tablespoon ful of chopped gherkin, the same of 
chopped parsley, four chopped olives and a table- 
spoonful of capers. 

SAUCE SUEDOISE 

y 2 pint of mayonnaise 
H pint of cream 
2 tablespoonfuls of finely grated 
horseradish 

Whip the cream and drain it, then stir it 
carefully into the mayonnaise, and at last add 
the horseradish. This sauce is appropriate to 
serve with boned partridges or quail, and is also 
nice to serve with mixed cold meats. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

Put eight tablespoonfuls of oil in a bowl, 
add a half teaspoonful of salt, and a piece of ice 
the size of an tgg. Work the ice with the oil 
until the salt is thoroughly dissolved, then add 
a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar and a drop 
of Tabasco sauce. Remove the ice, beat rapidly 
until you have a creamy dressing, and use at 
once. French dressing should be used over cu- 
cumber or tomato molds, and is nice with fish 
or chicken mousse and East Indian Salad. 



132 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

CUCUMBER MOLDS 

2 good sized cucumbers 
y 2 box of gelatin 
I pint of chicken stock 
i teaspoonful of salt 
i tablespoonful of onion juice 
i saltspoonful of pepper 
The juice of one lemon 

Peel and grate the cucumbers. Add the 
gelatin to the stock, soak for twenty minutes, 
bring to a boil and add the seasoning; then stir 
in the drained cucumber. Turn into small round 
timbale cups and stand aside to harden. Serve 
with any cold fish dish, as cold boiled slice of 
halibut, or fish in aspic. These are nice for Sun- 
day night supper with broiled sardines. 

TOMATO MOLDS 

i can of tomatoes 

I box of gelatin 

i onion 

i saltspoonful of celery seed 

i bay leaf 

1 blade of mace 

2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar 
i teaspoonful of paprika 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt 

Cover the gelatin with a cupful of cold 
water to soak for fifteen minutes. Add all the 
seasoning to the tomatoes, bring to boiling point, 



Salads 133 

add the gelatin, and strain. Turn into twelve 
small tomato molds and stand aside to harden. 
Serve with mayonnaise dressing as an accompani- 
ment to boned chicken or turkey, or chicken pate, 
or alone, with mayonnaise, as a complete salad. 
Chopped celery, a little cold cooked meat or nuts 
may be added, when the molds are to be served as 
a salad. With this addition, one half the recipe 
will serve twelve persons. 

CRABS RAVIGOT 

Purchase as many crab shells as you have 
people to serve. To each six allow a pint of crab 
flakes. If you buy the crabs fresh, twelve crabs 
will serve six people. Squeeze over the flakes 
the juice of one lemon, add a half teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of Tabasco. Fill the meat 
loosely into the shells, place each shell on a pretty 
paper doily on a plate, and spread over a thick 
layer of mayonnaise dressing, with which you 
have mixed a tablespoon ful of chopped parsley, 
a tablespoonful of tarragon leaves, a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped onion or shallot, and a tablespoon- 
ful of green chives. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Cut cold boiled chicken into dice, add an 
equal quantity of tender celery, season with salt, 



134 Mrs. Rarer s Refreshments for Affairs 

pepper and lemon juice, mix with mayonnaise 
dressing, and serve on lettuce leaves. 

A four pound chicken, and six heads of 
tender celery, three heads of lettuce, a half pint 
of whipped cream, and one pint of mayonnaise, 
will serve fifteen persons. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Cut cold boiled lobster into cubes of an inch, 
mix with mayonnaise dressing and serve on let- 
tuce leaves. 

One three-pound lobster will serve six 
persons. 

CRAB SALAD 

Season crab flakes with salt, pepper and 
lemon juice, mix them with mayonnaise dressing, 
and serve on lettuce leaves, garnished with cress. 

One pint of flakes will serve six persons. 



TONGUE SALAD 

Cut fresh-cooked beef's tongue or calf's 
tongue into dice. Have ready peeled perfectly 
round smooth tomatoes, take out the core and 
scoop out the seeds. Fill each tomato with the 
cubes of tongue, sprinkle over a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and a little salt and pepper. Stand 



Salads 135 

these on nests of lettuce leaves, put on top of each 
a large tablespoonful of mayonnaise. Dust 
thickly with paprika and serve one to each 
person. 

LAMB SALAD 

Cut cold boiled lamb into dice, mix with it 
half the quantity of freshly cooked green peas 
or canned peas. Add a half can of mushrooms, 
chopped fine, salt, pepper and lemon juice. Mix 
with mayonnaise dressing and serve on lettuce 
leaves, garnished with large sprigs of mint. Cap 
the top of the dish with a good sized sprig of 
fresh mint, and sprinkle capers all over the salad. 

A nice plain lamb salad is made by mixing 
left-over cold lamb with mayonnaise; serve on 
lettuce leaves and garnish with chopped mint. 

A quart will serve ten persons. 

TOMATOES EN SURPRISE 

This is one of the nicest of the salads for a 
simple card party. It takes the place of both 
vegetables and meat, and with brown bread and 
nut sandwiches as an accompaniment, is very at- 
tractive. Peel the tomatoes, cut off the stem end 
and scoop out the core and seeds. Fill the toma- 
toes with either crab flakes, chopped lobster, 
canned salmon, or sardines. Squeeze over a little 



136 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for A ffairs 

lemon juice, and dust with salt and pepper. Turn 
them upside down on a nest of lettuce leaves, and 
cover the tomato with creamy mayonnaise. 



SWEETBREAD SALAD 

2 pairs of sweetbreads 
4 ounces of almonds 
4 ounces of pecan meats 
2 ounces of shelled Brazilian nuts 
2 Spanish peppers 
y 2 can of mushrooms 
2 heads of celery 
2 heads of lettuce 
1 pint of mayonnaise 
1 pint of cream 
1 can of French peas 

This is the most elaborate of all salads, is 
palatable and comparatively wholesome. Put the 
sweetbreads into boiling water, add a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar, and simmer gently for one hour. 
When cold, remove the membrane and pick the 
sweetbreads apart. Put them in a bowl, cover 
them with an onion, sliced, and squeeze over the 
juice of a lemon; cover the bowl and stand it 
aside over night. Blanch and chop the almonds, 
and chop the pecans. Remove the onion from 
the sweetbreads, mix in the nuts, add the white 
portions of the celery, cut the size of the sweet- 
breads. Add the mushrooms, sliced, two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, a saltspoonful of white pepper 



Salads 137 

and a saltspoonful of paprika. Add the cream, 
whipped, to the mayonnaise, and mix a portion 
of it with the sweetbreads and celery. Have a 
round shallow salad bowl lined with the lettuce 
leaves, turn in the centre the sweetbread salad 
and cover it over with the remaining quantity of 
mayonnaise. Put the peas in a ring around the 
base of the salad, and cap the top with the yolk 
of a hard-boiled egg. Cut the white of the egg 
into eighths and press them upside down around 
the yolk, forming a sort of a daisy. Cut the Span- 
ish peppers into rings and arrange them just 
above the peas. Put here and there around the 
base, above the peas, ripe or green olives, and 
send to the table. 

This will serve at supper or luncheon ten 
persons. 



ROAST BEEF SALAD 

For impromptu evening affairs any cold left- 
over meat may be utilized in a salad. Beef, mut- 
ton and tongue are usually served with French 
dressing, seasoned with tomato catsup. Cut the 
meat into dice, season with salt and pepper, dish 
them on lettuce, or they may be mixed in the 
winter with chopped celery or chopped crisp cab- 
bage, and basted with French dressing, seasoned 
with two or three tablespoonfuls of tomato cat- 



138 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

sup for beef, mint sauce, or a drop of Tabasco 
Sauce for mutton, a little Worcestershire Sauce 
for tongue. 

A quart will serve ten persons. 



EAST INDIAN SALAD 

This is purely a vegetable salad; it is ex- 
ceedingly nice for a simple evening affair. Shave 
sufficient cabbage to make a pint, soak it in cold 
water for one hour, changing the water once or 
twice. Cover a half box of gelatin with a half 
cupful of cold water to soak for a half hour. Put 
a half can of tomatoes in a saucepan, add one 
onion, chopped, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoon- 
ful of pepper and the juice of a lemon, or two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Bring to boiling point, 
and add the gelatin. Cover the bottom of a large 
melon mold with finely chopped celery or cooked 
carrots, put on top of this a few drops of onion 
juice, then a thin layer of cabbage, a dusting of 
salt and pepper, then a goodly quantity of India 
relish ; cover this over with chopped nuts, pecans, 
hickory or peanuts, then another layer of celery, 
and so continue until the mold is full, seasoning 
the layers with salt and pepper. Have the last 
layer chopped celery. Strain over this the to- 
mato aspic, which should be cold, but not thick, 



Salads 139 

and stand aside for four or five hours. Serve 
plain, or garnished with lettuce leaves or cress. 
This will serve twelve persons. 

POTATO SALAD 

Fancy potato salad may be served for an 
evening affair with an accompaniment of cold 
tongue, or it may be garnished with hard-boiled 
eggs and form the entire course. Serve with it 
brown bread and butter and coffee. 

4 potatoes 

8 tablespoonfuls of olive oil 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream 

2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar 

1 level teaspoonful of salt 

1 saltspoonful of pepper 

Wash the potatoes and boil them with skins 
on. The moment they are done, drain the water, 
dry and peel. Put the oil, salt, pepper and vine- 
gar in a bowl, beat rapidly until thoroughly 
mixed, and then add one good sized onion, sliced 
very thin, or use two tablespoonfuls of grated 
onion. Put in the hot potatoes, sliced, toss them 
a moment, and if you have it, sprinkle over two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar from pickled walnuts, 
or a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup. Stand 
aside to cool. When ready to serve, turn on to 
a cold platter, garnish with chopped parsley, and, 
if you have them, chopped pickled beets. 

This is sufficient for six persons. 



140 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

FRENCH POTATO SALAD 

Moisten a teaspoonful of cornstarch in four 
tablespoonfuls of milk, add two tablespoonfuls 
of cream and stir over hot water until thick ; then 
add gradually six tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a 
teaspoonful of French made mustard, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Boil four potatoes, cut them into blocks, and, 
when nearly cold, mix them with this dressing, 
and stand aside until very cold. Serve with a 
garnish of chopped celery or lettuce leaves. 

This will serve six persons. 



MACEDOINE SALAD 

A mixture of vegetables, peas, beans, car- 
rots, turnips, can be purchased, canned, at any 
grocery store. Drain, wash them in cold water, 
dish them on a bed of shaved cabbage or lettuce 
leaves, and cover them with French dressing. All 
these vegetables may be cooked at home and used 
cold. String beans garnished with carrots make 
an excellent salad. 

BANANA SALAD 

For this use the red bananas. Roll them 
out of the skin rather than strip the skin from 



Salads 141 

them, and cut them into slices a half inch thick. 
Cover the bottom of your salad bowl with crisp 
lettuce leaves, then put over the bananas, allow- 
ing one banana to each two persons. Squeeze 
over the juice of a lemon, and, when ready to 
serve, baste with French dressing. 



APPLE AND NUT SALAD 

4 tart apples 

1 cupful of pecan meats 
24 blanched almonds 

2 sweet Spanish peppers 

The rule for French dressing 

Peel the apples, cut them into dice, squeeze 
over the juice of one or two lemons, and stand 
them aside until wanted. The lemon juice will 
prevent discoloration. Chop the nuts. At serv- 
ing time line the salad bowl with a layer of 
chopped celery or cabbage or lettuce leaves, then 
a layer of apples, nuts, celery, apples and nuts. 
Baste with the French dressing, and, if you have 
them, garnish with the sweet peppers cut into 
strips, and use at once. 

This, using a pint of chopped cabbage or 
celery, will serve six persons, 



1 42 Mrs . Rorers Refreshments for A flairs 

CANTALOUPE SALAD 

This is the newest and most sightly of 
salads. Arrange crisp lettuce or Romaine leaves 
on individual plates. Cut a cold ripe cantaloupe 
into halves, take out the seeds, and with a large 
vegetable scoop or teaspoon scoop out balls or 
egg-shaped pieces. Heap a half dozen of these on 
the lettuce leaves, and, at serving time, baste 
them well with French dressing, and serve. 
Watermelon may be substituted for cantaloupe. 



Sandwiches 



Sandwiches may be made from thin white 
bread, or whole wheat bread, or Boston brown 
bread, or nut bread. A nut loaf is easily made 
at short notice, and needs only butter to make 
an excellent sandwich. An endless variety of 
sandwiches may be made from materials always 
at hand. 

For Cheese Sandwiches: Grind or mash 
common American cheese, add a palatable sea- 
soning of tomato catsup, Worcestershire sauce, 
and a little melted butter. A teaspoonful of these 
will be sufficient for a quarter of a pound of 
cheese. Put this between thin slices of unbut- 
tered bread. If a large quantity of sandwiches 
is to be made, beat the butter to a cream before 
using it. 

Meats: All sorts of meats, just a little left 
over, may be chopped, seasoned and utilized for 
sandwiches. If the meat is slightly moistened 
with a little olive oil, cream or melted butter, and 
the sandwiches are wrapped in a damp cloth, as 
soon as made, and closed in a tin bread box, they 
will keep nicely for several hours. 

On a warm day put a few moist lettuce 
leaves on top of the sandwiches, under the cloth, 
and put the box in a cold place. 

143 



1 44 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for A ffairs 

Canned Salmon, Sardines, or boiled 
Salt Cod, pounded and nicely seasoned with oil 
and lemon juice, or mayonnaise, make nice sand- 
wiches to serve with molded tomato jelly, and 
coffee, for a " winter evening." They are quite 
enough with coffee alone in an emergency. 

Nut Sandwiches are made by putting 
chopped nuts or nut butter between thin slices 
of buttered bread, or crackers. 

Sweet Sandwiches are made by putting 
a mixture of chopped fruits between thin slices 
of buttered bread. The fruits best suited for 
sandwiches are dates, raisins, candied ginger and 
cherries, and washed figs. These may be used 
separately or blended, using less ginger than other 
fruits. A nice filling may be made from a half 
pound of dates, an ounce of ginger, and ten 
cents' worth of roasted peanuts, or a quarter of 
a pound of pecans. Put these through a meat 
chopper, add the juice of an orange, and pack 
the mixture in jelly tumblers. Keep in a cold 
place. This will keep a month in winter, and 
equally long in a refrigerator in summer. 

Sweet sandwiches are usually cut into "fin- 
gers," or into rounds with an ordinary biscuit 
cutter. 

Honolulu Sandwiches are made by rub- 
bing one roll of Neufchatel cheese with a half 



Sandwiches 145 

cupful of grated apple, two sweet Spanish pep- 
pers, and twenty- four blanched and chopped 
almonds. Add salt and a drop of Tabasco sauce. 
Spread between thin slices of unbuttered bread. 

Jelly or Canned Fruit Sandwiches are 
made by spreading jelly or mashed fruit, drained, 
on a very thin slice of buttered bread. Trim off 
the crusts and roll quickly. Tie with baby rib- 
bon, or press it firmly together. These are usu- 
ally served with chocolate or tea. 

Chicken Salad or Celery Mayonnaise 
Sandwiches are usually served with coffee, and 
can be made quickly by mixing any left-over 
chicken, or tender white celery, with mayonnaise, 
and putting the mixture between thin slices of 
buttered bread. A lettuce leaf on the bread first 
holds the salad nicely. One may use two lettuce 
leaves if necessary. 

NUT BREAD 

2 cupfuls of flour 
J / 2 cupful of chopped nuts 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
1 cupful of milk 

1 egg 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
H teaspoonful of salt 

Sift the salt, baking powder and flour to- 
gether, add and mix in the nuts and sugar. Beat 



146 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

the egg, add the milk, and stir these in the flour. 
Mix well, and turn it in a greased bread pan. 
Cover, and allow it to stand fifteen minutes. 
Bake in a moderately quick oven a half hour. 
Pecans, hickory nuts, peanuts, or English walnuts 
may be used. 

Use the next day after it is baked. Cut thin, 
butter lightly, and press two slices together. 
Serve whole, or cut into halves. Do not remove 
the crusts. 



Suggestions 
for Church Suppers 

NUT MEAT ROLL 

I pound of chopped beef 

i quart of roasted peanuts in shells 

i teaspoonful of salt 

1 saltspoonful of pepper 

3 shredded wheat biscuits 

2 eggs 

i tablespoonful onion juice 
i tablespoonful of parsley 

Shell and chop the peanuts, mix them with 
the meat, and add the shredded wheat rubbed 
fine; salt, pepper, parsley, chopped, and onion 
juice. Mix well. Beat the egg slightly, add three 
tablespoonfuls of water, and mix this into the 
meat. Form in a roll about eight inches long, roll 
in oiled paper, place it in a baking pan, add a half 
cupful of water to the pan and bake in a moderate 
oven three quarters of an hour. Remove the 
paper and stand aside to cool. Serve in thin 
slices with either tomato or potato salad. 

This will serve eight persons at a cost of 
about four cents each. 



«47 



1 48 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for A ffairs 

JELLIED VEAL 

3 knuckles of veal 

4 onions 
1 carrot 

3 teaspoonfuls of salt 

8 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 

6 gherkins 

1 teaspoonful of black pepper 

Wash the knuckles, remove the meat and 
cut it in pieces. Put the bones in a kettle, the 
meat on top, and pour over six quarts of cold 
water. Bring to a boil, skim, and simmer gently 
two hours. Add the onion sliced, the carrot 
chopped, salt and pepper, and simmer one hour 
longer. Drain in a colander. Dip long molds, 
or ordinary bread pans, in cold water, cover the 
bottom with slices of hard boiled eggs, put the 
meat in bits on top of this, seasoning it with a 
little salt. Slice the gherkins and put them in 
layers between the meat. Strain the liquid, add 
the vinegar, and pour it over the meat. There 
should be just enough to cover it nicely. If there 
is more than this, boil it down before adding 
vinegar. Stand aside over night. When cold, 
dip the mold a second in boiling water, and turn 
the jelly in a platter. Serve cut in slices, with 
either a nice cold slaw, or cabbage and celery 
salad. Jellied beef is made the same, substituting 
a leg or 9hin of beef. 



Suggestions for Church Suppers 149 

This will cost about seventy five cents, and 
will make twenty-five to thirty slices. 



BAGGED VEAL 

2 pounds of tean ham 

4 pounds of veal cutlet 

3 shredded wheat biscuits 
2 eggs 

2 onions 

1 teaspoonful of powdered sage 
Yz teaspoonful of allspice 

1 teaspoonful of salt 
y 2 teaspoonful of black pepper 

Put the meat, raw, through a meat chopper, 
add the biscuits crumbed, the onions grated, and 
all the seasonings. Work it well with the hands, 
and mix in the eggs, slightly beaten. Pack the 
mixture in clean salt bags or bags about that 
size, plunge them in a kettle of boiling water, 
boil rapidly ten minutes, and simmer three hours. 
When cool, turn the bags wrong side out off the 
meat. Serve sliced like summer sausage. 

This will cost one and a half dollars, and 
will serve twenty five persons. 



150 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 

A SPANISH STEW FOR ONE HUNDRED 
PERSONS 

25 pounds of round of beef 

6 sweet peppers, or 

1 can of Spanish pimentos 
12 sweet turnips 
y 2 bottle of Worcestershire sauce 

1 cupful of flour 

1 pound of suet 
10 large onions 

3 gallon cans of peas 
12 carrots 

1 jar of beef extract 

4 tablespoonfuls of salt 

4 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch 
% pound of butter 

Put the suet into a large kettle or in two 
smaller ones ; try it out and remove the crackling. 
Add to the hot fat the onions and peppers 
chopped fine. Shake until they are well cooked 
and slightly browned. Add the meat cut into 
cubes of one inch, cover the kettles and cook a 
half hour, stirring now and then. Dissolve the 
beef extract in three gallons of hot water, pour 
it over the meat, and simmer for two hours. Add 
the carrots and turnips cut into dice, and more 
water if necessary, and cook one hour longer. 
Add the flour and cornstarch moistened in cold 
water, and all the seasonings. Stir and boil ten 
minutes, add the peas, drained, and serve. This 



Suggestions for Church Suppers 151 

is nice garnished with small hot milk biscuits. 
Taste before serving it, to see if you have added 
sufficient salt. 



VEAL ROLL 

4 pounds of lean veal 
3 shredded wheat biscuits 

1 teaspoonful of salt 
l / 2 teaspoonful of sage 
]/ 2 pound of lean ham 

2 eggs 

1 tablespoonful of parsley 
1 saltspoonful of pepper 

Put the veal and ham through a meat chop- 
per, add all the seasonings, and the biscuits rubbed 
fine. Mix thoroughly, add the tgg slightly 
beaten, mix again, and form into a roll three 
inches in diameter. Roll in oiled paper, place in 
a baking pan, cover the bottom of the pan with 
hot water, add a slice of onion, and, if you have 
it, a little chopped celery tops. Bake slowly one 
and a half hours, basting over the paper every 
fifteen minutes. When done, remove the paper, 
and put in a cold place. Serve in thin slices with 
tomato jelly salad. 

This will cost about one dollar and will serve 
eighteen persons. 



152 Mrs. Rarer s Refreshments for Affairs 

MAN-OF-WAR SALAD 

For twenty-five persons, chop sufficient hard 
white cabbage to make two quarts. Cover it with 
cold water, let it soak for an hour, and then wash 
it through several cold waters, and dry it in a 
towel. Cover three boxes of gelatin with a pint 
of cold water to soak a half hour. Open three 
cans of tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with 
four chopped onions, a cupful of chopped celery 
tops, if you have them, bring to a boil, add the 
juice of a lemon, a level tablespoon ful of salt, ten 
drops of Tabasco sauce, the juice of a lemon, or 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and the gelatin. 
Stir a moment, and press through a sieve. Dip 
bread pans or melon molds in cold water, put in 
a layer of cabbage, then a very thin layer of 
Indian relish, then cabbage, and so continue until 
the molds are filled. Pour over the tomato jelly, 
cold, and stand aside over night. Serve in slices 
with cooked or French dressing. 



COOKED DRESSING 

Put a pint of milk over the fire in a double 
boiler, add three level tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch moistened in a little cold milk. Cook until 
thick and smooth. Take from the fire, add the 
beaten yolks of four eggs, and work in slowly 



Suggestions for Church Suppers 153 

two tablespoonfuls of butter. Add a teaspoonful 
of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. When cool 
add the juice of a lemon or four tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. Fold in carefully the well-beaten 
whites of the eggs, and stand aside until very 
cold. 

GRANDMOTHER'S POTATO SALAD 

Boil ten large potatoes in their jackets. Peel 
them and, when cool, cut eight into dice. Peel 
and mash the remaining two while hot; add to 
them a quarter pound of sweet butter, four table- 
spoonfuls of grated onion, two teaspoonfuls of 
salt, a dash of cayenne, two drops of Tabasco 
sauce, and press through a fine sieve. Hard boil 
two eggs; rub the yolks to a paste, and add two 
raw yolks. When smooth, add to these grad- 
ually the potato mixture. Thin to the consistency 
of good mayonnaise, with vinegar. At serving 
time mix the potato blocks and one can of drained 
peas with the dressing, being very careful not to 
break them. Dish on lettuce leaves, and garnish 
with chopped red beets, or, better, chopped celery. 
This is an excellent cheap salad, and will serve 
fifteen persons. 

SALMON PUDDING 

Remove the bone, skin and oil from two 
pound cans of salmon. Boil together two cup- 



1 54 Mrs. Rorer's Refreshments for A ffairs 

fuls of white bread crumbs and one cupful of 
milk. Take from the fire, and add one cupful 
of boiled rice, a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful 
of pepper, a teaspoonful of onion juice, and four 
eggs slightly beaten. Mix and work in the fish. 
Press the whole through a colander, and pack it 
at once into a mold. Cover and steam three- 
quarters of an hour. Serve hot with cream sauce. 
This will serve twelve persons. 



NUT CAKE 

At suppers where the yolks of eggs are used 
for mayonnaise or cooked dressing, the whites 
accumulate and are lost if not used in some white 
cake. 

l / 2 cupful of butter 

2 cupfuls of flour 

V/2 cupfuls of sugar 

y$ cupful of water 

1 cupful of English walnut or 

hickory nut meats 

2 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder 
Whites of four eggs 

Cream the butter, add the water and flour, 
alternately, beating all the while. Beat the 
whites, add half of them to the mixture, then all 
the nuts, chopped, then the baking powder, dry, 
and beat well. Fold in the remaining whites. 



Suggestions for Church Suppers 155 

Bake in a round cake pan in a moderate oven 
three-quarters of an hour. When cool, ice the top 
and decorate it with nut meats. 



SCONES FOR TWENTY-FIVE PERSONS 

Sift three quarts of flour with six rounding 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and two of salt. 
Beat, without separating, three eggs. Rub into 
the flour a quarter of a pound of butter, or three 
tablespoonfuls of snowdrift. Add to the eggs 
one quart and a half of milk, and stir this into 
the flour. Mix quickly and drop by spoonfuls in 
greased baking pans, and bake fifteen minutes in 
a quick oven. Serve at once. These are better 
and more easily made than biscuits. 

POOR MAN'S FRUIT CAKE 

ZVz cupfuls of flour 

1 cupful of brown sugar 
Yz cupful of New Orleans molasses 

1 pound of seeded raisins 

1 cupful of sour milk 
y 2 cupful of butter 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon 

1 teaspoonful of allspice 

1 teaspoonful of soda 

Cut the raisins into halves and flour them 
with four tablespoonfuls of the flour. Dissolve 
the soda in a tablespoonful of water, add it to 



156 Mrs. Rorers Refreshments for A ffairs 

the thick sour milk, beat a minute, add the mo- 
lasses, beat again, add the butter, melted care- 
fully, and stir in the flour; add the spices, and 
beat well. Stir in the raisins, and turn into a 
greased bread pan. Bake in a moderate oven 
one hour. When done, turn from the pan, baste 
with a syrup, made by boiling four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar with three of water, and add two 
teaspoon fuls of currant or grape jelly. Shut the 
cake in a tin box for a week or more. If made 
well this is moist and rich at very little cost. 

BANANA LAYER 

% cupful of butter 

1 cupful of sugar 
2/3 cupful of water 

2 cupfuls of flour 

2 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
Whites of four eggs 

Put together the same as Ice Cream Cake, 
and bake in three layers. When cold, put to- 
gether with Banana Filling. 

BANANA FILLING 

Boil together one cupful of sugar and a half 
cupful of water until they spin a heavy thread, 
and pour slowly, beating all the while, into the 
well-beaten whites of two eggs. Beat until rather 



Suggestions for Church Suppers 157 

stiff and cold. When the cakes are cold, spread 
one-third of this filling over one cake, cover with 
thin slices of red bananas, put on another cake, 
on this another third of rilling and bananas, and 
the remaining cake ; cover this with the remain- 
ing filling, and dust thickly with chopped nuts. 
Do not let this stand too long, or the filling will 
absorb moisture from the bananas and run down 
the cake. 

ICE CREAM CAKE 

V/ 2 cupfuls of sugar 
2J/2 cupfuls of flour 
Y A cupful of butter 

1 cupful of water 

2 rounding teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
Whites of five eggs 

Cream the butter, adding slowly the sugar. 
Sift the flour with the baking powder. Add the 
water and flour alternately to the sugar mixture, 
and beat well. Fold in the well-beaten whites, 
and bake in three layers. Put together with a 
soft icing made from the whites of two eggs. 



158 Mrs, Rorers Refreshments for Affairs 
FRUIT JELLY 

Dip a fancy mold into cold water, fill it half 
full of mixed chopped candied fruits, or use 
dates, figs and bananas chopped. Fill the mold 
with a well-made lemon or orange gelatin. Serve 
plain, or with whipped cream. 

MOCK EGGS 

l / 2 box of gelatin 
1 can pared apricots 
1 cupful of sugar 
1 pint of water 

Whites of three eggs 

Juice of three lemons 

Cover the gelatin with a half cupful of cold 
water to soak for a half hour, add the sugar and 
the water boiling; stir until the gelatin is dis- 
solved; add the lemon juice, strain, and cool 
until congealed but not too hard. Add the un- 
beaten whites of eggs, stand the bowl in a pan 
of cracked ice or cold water, and beat until the 
whole mass is as white as snow. Pour into 
ramekin dishes or paper cases, press a half apri- 
cot, rounding side up, in the centre, and stand 
aside in a cold place. 



Index 



ICE CREAMS, WATER ICES AND 
FROZEN PUDDINGS 



PAGE 

Alaska Bake 35 

Alexander Bomb 36 

Almond Ice Cream, Burnt 13 

Mousse, Burnt 83 

Apple Ice 64 

Ice Cream 15 

Apricot Cream, English 58 

Ice 65 

Ice Cream 13 

Apricots, Frozen 76 

Arrowroot Cream 57 

Banana Ice Cream 14, 29 

Bananas, Frozen 77 

Biscuit Ice Cream 14 

Tortoni 40 

Biscuits a la Marie 39 

Americana 37 

German Cherry 61 

Glaces 38 

Bisque Ice Cream 17 

Blocks, Neapolitan 28 

Bomb, Alexander 36 

Glace 40 

Boston Pudding 45 

Brown Bread Ice Cream 15 

Burnt Almond Ice Cream 13 

Mousse 83 

Cabinet Pudding, Iced 41 

Cafe Parfait, Quick 43 

Cake, Iced 42 

Caramel Ice Cream 26, 30 

No. 1 16 

No. 2 16 

Neapolitan 26 

Parfait, Quick 43 

Charlotte Glace 60 



PAGE 

Cherry Biscuits, German 61 

Ice 65 

Chocolate Ice Cream 18, 25 

Frozen 77 

Neapolitan 25 

Ice Cream, No. 1 31 

No. 2 31 

Parfait, Quick 44 

Sauce, Hot 88 

Claret Sauce 89 

Cocoanut Ice Cream 30 

Coffee, Frozen 78 

Ice Cream 18, 32 

Mousse 84 

Neapolitan 26 

Compote of Oranges with 

Iced Rice Pudding 51 
Compote of Mandarins, 

with Rice Mousse 86 

Coupe St. Jacque 62 

Cranberry Sherbet 72 

Cream, Arrowroot 57 

English Apricot 58 

Orange Gelatin 33 

Creams, Neapolitan 25 

Croquettes, Ice Cream 50 

Cucumber Sorbet 72 

Curacao Ice Cream 19 
Currant and Raspberry 

Water Ice 66 

Water Ice 66 

Custard, Frozen 58 

Directions for Freezing 7 

Duchess Mousse 85 

Egyptian Mousse 84 

English Apricot Cream 58 

«59 



1 60 Index for Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 





PAGE 


PAGE 


Foreword 


5 


Ice, Orange Water 


69 


Frappe 


82 


Pineapple Water 


70 


Frozen Apricots 


76 


Pomegranate Water 


69 


Bananas 


77 


Raspberry Water 


71 


Coffee 


78 


Strawberry Water 


70 


Chocolate 


77 


Sour Sop 


71 


Custard 


58 


Ice Cream, Apple 


15 


Fruits 


76 


Apricot 


13 


Peaches, No. 1 


79 


Banana 14 


,29 


No. 2 


80 


Biscuit 


14 


Pineapple 


78 


Bisque 


17 


Plum Pudding 


59 


Brown Bread 


15 


Puddings and Des- 




Burnt Almond 


13 


serts 


35 


Caramel 26 


,30 


Raspberries 


80 


Caramel, No. 1 


16 


Strawberries 


81 


No. 2 


16 


Watermelon 


«0 


Chocolate 


18 


Fruit Salad, Iced 


61 


Coffee 18 


,32 


Water Ice, Mille 


68 


Croquettes 


50 


Fruits, Frozen 


76 


Cura?ao 


19 






Gelatin 


59 


Gelatin Cream, Orange 


33 


Ginger 


19 


Ice Cream 


59 


Green Gage 


22 


German Cherry Biscuits 


61 


Lemon 


20 


Ginger Ice Cream 


19 


Maraschino 


20 


Water Ice 


67 


Orange 


21 


Glace, Bomb 


40 


Peach 


32 


Charlotte 


60 


No. 1 


33 


Glaces, Biscuits 


38 


No. 2 


33 


Gooseberry Sorbet 


73 


Pineapple 
Pistachio 


21 
23 


Grape Water Ice 


66 


Raspberry 


22 


Green Gage Ice Cream 


22 


Strawberry 


23 






Vanilla 


23 


Hot Chocolate Sauce 


88 


Walnut 
Ice Creams, Directions for 


24 


Ice, Apple 


64 


Freezing 


7 


Apricot 


65 


from Condensed 




Cherry 


65 


Milk 


29 


Currant and Raspberry 




Philadelphia 


13 


Water 


66 


Quantities for 




Currant Water 


66 


Serving 


12 


Ginger Water 


67 


Sauces for 


88 


Grape Water 


66 


Time for Freez- 




Lemon Water 


67 


ing 


6 


Mille Fruit Water 


68 


To Mold 


10 



Index for Ice Creams, Water Ices, &c. 



61 



PAGE 

Ice Creams, To remove from 

Molds 10 

To repack 8 

Use of Fruits in 6 

Iced Cabinet Pudding 41 

Cake 42 

Fruit Salad 61 

Rice Pudding with 

Compote of Oranges 51 

Ices, To Mold 9 

To Remove from 

Molds 10 



Lalla Rookh 

Lemon Ice Cream 
Water Ice 
Lillian Russell 



Maple Panachee 60 

Sauce 88 

Maraschino Ice Cream 20 

Melba, Peaches 57 

Merry Widow, The 55 

Mille Fruit Water Ice 68 

Mint Sherbet 74 

Monte Carlo Pudding 44 

Montrose Pudding 45 

Sauce 89 

Mousse 83 

Burnt Almond 83 

Coffee 84 

Duchess 85 

Egyptian 84 

Pistachio 85 

Rice with Compote 

of Mandarins 86 

Neapolitan Blocks 28 

Creams 25 

Nesselrode Pudding 46 

Americana 47 

Nut Sauce 89 



Orange Gelatin Cream 


33 


Ice Cream 


21 


No. 1 


33 


No. 2 


33 





PACK 


Orange Sauce 


90 


Sherbet 


73 


Souffle 


48 


Water Ice 


69 



Parfait 82 

Quick Cafe 43 
Quick Caramel 43 
Quick Chocolate 44 
Quick Strawberry 43 
Panachee, Maple 60 
Peach Ice Cream 32 
Peaches No. 1, Frozen 79 
No. 2, " 80 
Melba 57 
Philadelphia Ice Creams 13 
Pineapple, Frozen 78 
Ice Cream 21 
Water Ice 70 
Pistachio Ice Cream 23 
Mousse 85 
Plombiere 49 
Plum Pudding, Frozen 59 
Pomegranate Water Ice 69 
Pudding, Boston 45 
Cabinet, Iced 41 
Frozen Plum 59 
Iced Rice, with 
Compote of Or- 
anges 51 
Monte Carlo 44 
Montrose 45 
Nesselrode 46 
Nesselrode, Amer- 
icana 47 
Queen 50 
Sultana 54 
Tutti Frutti 55 
To Mold 9 
To Remove from 
Molds 10 
Punch, Roman 71 

Quantities for Serving 12 

Queen Pudding 50 

Quick Cafe Parfait 43 

Caramel Parfait 43 



1 62 Index for Ice Creams, Water Ices, &V. 



Quick Chocolate Parfait 
Strawberry Parfait 

Raspberry and Currant 
Water Ice 

Raspberry Ice Cream 
Water Ice 
Raspberries, Frozen 
Rice Mousse with Compote 
of Mandarins 
Pudding, Iced, with 
Compote of Oranges 
Roll Sultana 
Roman Punch 

Salad, Iced Fruit 
Sauce, Claret 

Hot Chocolate 
Maple 
Montrose 
Nut 
Orange 
Walnut 
Sauces for Ice Creams 
Sherbet, Cranberry 
Mint 
Orange 
Sour Sop 
Tomato 
Sherbets 

Sorbet, Cucumber 
Gooseberry 
Tomato 
Sorbets 

Souffle, Orange 
Sour Sop 

Sherbet or Ice 
Strawberry Ice Cream 



PAGE 




PAGE 


44 


Strawberry Parfait, Quick 


43 


43 


Water Ice 


70 




Strawberries, Frozen 


81 




Sultana Pudding 


54 


66 


Roll 


53 


22 






71 


Time for Freezing 


6 


80 


Tomato Sorbet or Sherbet 


74 



51 

53 
71 

61 

89 
88 
88 
89 
89 
90 
90 
88 
72 
74 
73 
71 
74 
63 
72 
73 
74 
63 
48 
34 
71 
23 



To Mold Ice Creams, Ices 
or Puddings 
Remove Ice Creams, 
Ices and Puddings 
from Molds 
Repack Ice Creams 



10 



Tutti Frutti, Italian Fashion 


56 


Pudding 


65 


Use of Fruits 


6 


Vanilla Ice Cream 


23 


Neapolitan 


27 


Walnut Ice Cream 


24 


Neapolitan 


27 


Water Ice, Currant 


66 


Currant and 




Raspberry 


66 


Ginger 


67 


Grape 


66 


Lemon 


67 


Mille Fruit 


68 


Orange 


69 


Pineapple 


70 


Pomegranate 


69 


Raspberry 


71 


Strawberry 


70 


Water Ices and Sherbets or 




Sorbets 


63 


Watermelon, Frozen 


80 


Walnut Sauce 


90 



Index 

REFRESHMENTS FOR AFFAIRS 



Apple and Nut Salad 



PAGE 

141 



Bagged Veal 

Banana Filling 
Layer 
Salad 
Baked Sweetbreads 
Bechamel Sauce 
Beef Salad, Roast 
Bellevue Bouillon 
Boiled Salt Cod Sandwiches 
Boned Quail 

Turkey 
Boudins a la Reine 
Bouillon 

Bellevue 

Chicken 

Clam 

Oyster 
Bread, Nut 



149 
156 
156 
140 
105 
118 
137 

98 
144 
128 
127 
117 

97 



100 
145 



Cake, Ice Cream 157 

Nut 154 

Poor Man's Fruit 155 
Canned Fruit Sandwiches 145 
Salmon Sandwiches 144 
Cantaloupe Salad 142 

Celery Mayonnaise Sand- 
wiches 
Cheese Sandwiches 
Chicken a la Creme 
a la King 
Bouillon 
Croquettes 
Galantine of 
Mousse 
Salad 

Sandwiches 

Timbale 



145 
143 
115 
116 
99 
114 
122 
125 
133 
145 
118 



Church Suppers, Sugges- 
tions for 
Clam Bouillon 
Cod Sandwiches, Boiled Salt 
Coffee for Large Home 

Affairs 
Cold Dishes 
Cooked Dressing 
Crab Backs a la Caracas 
Meat a la Dewey 
Salad 
Crabs, Deviled 
Ravigot 
Cream Cake, Ice 

Mushroom Sauce 
Croquettes, Chicken 
Oyster 
Cucumber Molds 
Cutlets, Lobster 

Deviled Crabs 

Dressing, Cooked 
French 

East Indian Salad 

Eggs, Mock 

Pilling, Banana 

French Dressing 

Potato Salad 
Fruit Cake, Poor Man's 

Jelly 

Sandwiches, Canned 

Galantine of Chicken 122 

Glaze 101 

Grandmother's Potato Salad 153 



147 

98 
144 

95 
120 
152 
110 
110 
134 
109 
133 
157 
119 
114 
112 
132 
111 

109 
152 
131 

138 
158 

156 
131 

140 
155 
158 
145 



Coffee for 



Home Affairs 
Large 

Honolulu Sandwiches 



95 
144 



163 



164 Index for Refreshments for Affairs 



Ice Cream Cake 

Jelly, Fruit 

Sandwiches 
Jellied Veal 



PAGE 

157 

158 
145 
148 



Lamb Salad 135 

Lamb's Sweetbreads in 

Paper Cases 106 
Large Home Affairs, Coffee 

for 95 

Layer, Banana 156 

Lobster Cutlets 111 

Newburg 112 

Salad 134 

Macedoine Salad 140 

Man-of-War Salad 152 

Mayonnaise 130 

Sandwiches, Celery 145 

Meat Roll, Nut 147 

Meat Sandwiches 143 

Mock Eggs 158 

Molds, Cucumber 132 

Tomato 132 

Mousse, Chicken 125 
Mushroom Sauce, Cream 119 



Nut and Apple Salad 


141 


Bread 


145 


Cake 


154 


Meat Roll 


147 


Sandwiches 


144 


Oyster Bouillon 


100 


Croquettes 


112 



Pate=de«foie=gras in Aspic 126 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake 155 

Potato Salad 139 

French 140 

Grandmother's 153 

Poulet en Bellevue 120 

Poultry and Game Dishes 114 

Pudding, Salmon 153 

Puree, Tomato, a la Rorer 100 



Quail, Boned 



128 



PAGE 

Ravigot Crabs 133 

Refreshments for Affairs 93 

Roast Beef Salad 137 

Roll, Nut Meat 147 

Veal 151 

Salad, Apple and Nut 141 

Banana 140 
Cantaloupe 142 
Chicken 133 
Crab 134 
East Indian 138 
French Potato 140 
Grandmother's Potato 153 
Lamb 135 
Lobster 134 
Macedoine 140 
Man-of-War 152 
Potato 139 
Roast Beef 137 
Sandwiches, Chicken 145 
Sweetbread 136 
Tongue 134 
Salads 130 
Salmon Pudding 153 
Sandwiches, Canned 144 
Salt Cod Sandwiches, Boiled 144 
Sandwiches 143 
Boiled Salt Cod 144 
Canned Fruit 145 
Salmon 144 
Celery Mayon- 
naise 145 
Chicken Salad 145 
Cheese 143 
Honolulu 144 
Jelly 145 
Meat 143 
Nut 144 
Sardine 144 
Sweet 144 
Sardine Sandwiches 144 
Sauce Bechamel 118 
Cream Mushroom 119 
Suedoise 131 
Tartar 131 
Scones 155 



Index for Refreshments for Affairs 165 





PAGB 






PAGE 


Shell Fish Dishes 


109 


Sweetbreads a la Newburg 


108 


Soups 


97 


Baked 




105 


Bellevue Bouillon 


98 


Lambs, in 


Paper 


Bouillon 


97 


Cases 




106 


Chicken Bouillon 


99 


Sweetbread Salad 




136 


Clam Bouillon 


98 


Sweet Sandwiches 




144 


Glaze 


101 








Oyster Bouillon 


100 


Tartar Sauce 




131 


Tomato Puree a la 




Timbale, Chicken 




11s 


Rorer 
Spanish Stew 


100 
150 


Tomatoes a l'Algerienne 




121 


Stew, Spanish 


150 


en Surprise 




135 


Suedoise Sauce 


131 


Tomato Molds 




132 


Suggestions for Church 




Puree, a la Rorer 


100 


Suppers 


147 


Tongue Salad 




134 


Sweetbreads 


102 


Turkey, Boned 




127 


a la Bordelaise 


104 








a la Creme 




Veal, Bagged 




149 


No. 1 


102 


Jellied 




148 


No. 2 


103 


Roll 




151 



SOME OTHER BOOKS 
Published by 

Arnold and Company 



Mrs. Rorer's 
NEW Cook Book 

A big book of 731 pages, abundantly illustrated. Its 
bigness is no criterion of its goodness. The fact that 
it is the best work of the best years ot Mrs. Rorer's 
life; that it is a complete new book telling of the things 
one needs to know about cooking, living, health, and 
the easiest and best way of housekeeping — these are 
what make for goodness, and place this book far in 
advance of any other of a like nature. 

The New Cook Book covers all departments of 
cookery. A masterly exposition of each subject is 
given, followed by recipes for the proper preparation, 
cooking and serving of the various kinds of foods. 
There are over 1500 recipes in the book. 

The illustrations are an important feature. One 
set of pictures shows the proper dressing of the table 
during a course dinner. Then there is a complete set 
showing the method of carving meats, poultry, game, 
etc.; and many others illustrating special features of 
the book. 

Large 12mo, 731 pages, profusely and beautifully 

illustrated ; bound in cloth, $2.00 net ; 

by mail, $2.20 



Mrs. Rorer's 

Vegetable Cookery and Meat 

Substitutes 



This book has a twofold object: 

i. To show the value of vegetables in their relation to 
diet and health, how to prepare, cook and serve 
them, what to eat under certain conditions of health, 
and thus have them perform their proper work. 

2. To give to the prudent housewife a knowledge of 
combinations of foods in the shape of toothsome 
recipes to take the place of meat, or as we call 
them — Meat Substitutes. 

It goes without saying that we all know too little 
about the value of vegetables as food. We eat them 
because they are palatable, not realizing their immense 
importance as body builders. Here they are classified, 
and thus made to give us a right idea of their use. 

Then as to Meat Substitutes. It is not necessary 
to be a vegetarian to desire a change from a meat diet. 
There are health reasons often demanding abstention 
from meats; or economy may be an impelling motive; 
or a desire for change and variety in the daily bill of 
fare may be warrant enough. However we look at it 
here is the wonder book to point the way to better and 
healthier living. 

There is an abundance of the choicest and most 
palatable recipes, and they are given in such a manner, 
that if the directions are followed, the results are sure. 
You cannot make mistakes. 

12mo, cloth, $1.50 net ; by mail, $1.65 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Philadelphia Cook Book 

This is the standard book of Mrs. Rorer's that has 
been before the public for a number of years. It has 
no connection with Mrs. Rorer's New Cook Book. 
Each book is independent of the other, and the posses- 
sion of one forms no reason for doing without the 
other. 

The Philadelphia Cook Book is full of good things, 
and, like all of Mrs. Rorer's works, is eminently prac- 
tical. It is a standard of excellence, in that it is 
full of the brightest things in cookery; the recipes 
are absolutely reliable, and the general instructions 
to housekeepers of the most helpful and necessary 
character. 

Nearly all cook books assume some knowledge and 
experience on the part of those who use them, but Mrs. 
Rorer makes her explanations so clear, and gives such 
definite directions, as to quantities, that the beginner 
has no difficulty in successfully accomplishing all the 
book calls for. Then there are frequent hints as to 
the proper use of left-overs, how to market, and, in 
many ways, information is given that is alike useful to 
the experienced cook as to the tyro in matters culinary. 

The book is full of choice recipes, every one of 
which has been successfully tested by Mrs. Rorer and 
found to come out right. This alone is of incalculable 
benefit and ought to commend the book to the favorable 
consideration of every housekeeper. 

The use of this book in the home means better 
health, better living, economy in the use of food, and 
a consequent saving in dollars and cents. 

12mo, nearly 600 pages, with portrait of author; 
bound in cloth, $1.00 net; by mail, $1.15 



Mrs. Rorer's 

Ice Creams, Water Ices 

Frozen Puddings, etc. 

Together with 

Refreshments 
for all Social Affairs 

The above title is very suggestive and alluring. The 
book itself is a storehouse of the best and finest things 
that can be invented to satisfy the appetite. It is a 
great boon to housewives everywhere. To have at 
their command the knowledge and facilities for making 
all kinds of Frozen Sweets at a small fraction of the 
cost of buying such things is a great satisfaction. 

Philadelphia Ice Creams are noted the world over 
for their wonderful quality, their smoothness and rich- 
ness. And nowhere else can you get them. Even 
Paris bows to the Quaker City. Well, here are the 
famous Philadelphia Ice Creams at your service. 

Then there are Neapolitan Ice Creams, Ice Creams 
from Condensed Milk, Frozen Puddings and Desserts, 
Water Ices, Sorbets, Sherbets, Frozen Fruits, Frappe, 
Parfait, Mousse, and Sauces for Ice Creams. 

The Department of Refreshments for Social Affairs 
is just what is wanted day by day. There are delight- 
ful ways of preparing famous dishes for guest occa- 
sions. Wonderful methods for Sweetbreads, Shell Fish 
Dishes, Poultry and Game, Soups, Cold Dishes, Salads, 
Sandwiches and Suggestions for Church Suppers. 

12 mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 

Canning and Preserving 

The only book on the subject worth the name. In 
it Mrs. Rorer discusses at length the canning and pre- 
serving of fruits and vegetables, with the kindred 
subjects of marmalades, butters, fruit jellies and syrups, 
drying and pickling. The recipes are clearly and simply 
given. In the new edition now presented, the author 
has brought the book up to date, and has included 
many new, rare and original recipes that have been 
accumulating since the book was first introduced. It 
has always been a favorite book with the public, and 
now it will be doubly welcome. 

New Edition : revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 
My Best 2$o Recipes 

It would be strange indeed if, out of the multitude 
of recipes Mrs. Rorer has invented and used during 
her long career as a teacher, writer and lecturer, she 
did not have some that appealed to her more strongly 
than others. She has gathered these together, classi- 
fying them under their different heads. There are Best 
20 Soups; Best 20 Fish Recipes; Best 20 Meats; Best 
20 Salads; Best 20 Desserts; Best 20 Sauces, Vegeta- 
bles, Fruit Preserves, Luncheon Dishes, Ices, Summer 
Recipes, Left Overs, Game and Poultry, Breads and 
Biscuits, etc. 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's New Salads 

For Dinners, Luncheons, Suppers and Receptions. 
With a group of Odd Salads and some Ceylon Salads. 

A salad made from a succulent green vegetable and 
French dressing, should be seen on the dinner table 
in every well-regulated household three hundred and 
sixty-five times a year. These green vegetables contain 
the salts necessary to the well being of our blood ; the 
oil is an easily-digested form of fatty matter ; the lemon 
juice gives us sufficient acid; therefore simple salads 
are exceedingly wholesome. 

During the summer, the dinner salad may be com- 
posed of any well-cooked green vegetable, served with 
a French dressing ; string beans, cauliflower, a mixture 
of peas, turnips, carrots and new beets, boiled radishes, 
cucumbers, tomatoes, uncooked cabbage, and cooked 
spinach. In the winter serve celery, lettuce, endive and 
chicory. 

New Edition : revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's Dainties 

Possibly no part of the daily bill of fare so taxes 
the ingenuity of the housewife as the dessert, that final 
touch to the meal that lingers in the palate like a bene- 
diction. We tire of constant repetitions of familiar 
things. We want variety. Why not have it when 
there are so many ways and means of gratifying our 
tastes. Mrs. Rorer has given here a number of choice 
things covering quite a range of possibilities. 

New Edition: revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 75 cents net; by mail, 80 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Every Day Menu Book 

In the course of her teaching and editorial work, 
there have come to Mrs. Rorer frequent requests for 
a book that will provide a daily bill of fare, one that 
will be at once rational, its directions easy of accom- 
plishment, and give an excellent variety. Hence this 
Menu Book. 

It contains a menu for every meal in the year, 
systematically arranged by months and days ; menus for 
special occasions, such as holidays, weddings, luncheons, 
teas, etc.; illustrations of decorated tables for various 
social events, with appropriate menus ; menus arranged 
for the seasons both as to food and decorations; a 
department of menus without meats. A fine volume 
that ought to commend itself to every housekeeper. 

12mo, 300 pages, handsomely illustrated; bound in 
cloth $1.50 net ; by mail, $1.65 

Mrs. Rorer's 
Cakes, Icings and Fillings 

Every one is interested in the cake problem. There 
is possibly no item in the home bill of fare on which 
a woman prides herself as the ability to make a good 
cake. But how to add variety to the goodness ? Here's 
the book to help. Contains a large number of enticing 
and valuable recipes for cakes of all sorts and condi- 
tions. Some need filling, some need icing — well, here 
you have all the necessary information. Best of all, 
there is no fear as to results. Follow the directions 
and your cake is bound to come out right. 

12mo J cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's Sandwiches 

Of all the useful and dependable articles of food, 
commend us to the Sandwich. Nothing in the whole 
range of foods presents such a wonderful opportunity 
for variety. The sandwich is the handy thing for 
suppers, teas, social calls, school lunch baskets, picnics — 
but where can you not use it to advantage and enjoy- 
ment ? In this book Mrs. Rorer has given a lot of new, 
original recipes, with some very odd ones. She has 
drawn upon her wonderful knowledge and inventive 
faculty and the result is a bewildering array of delect- 
able sandwiches. 

New Edition : revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 

Mrs. Rorer's 

How to Use a Chafing Dish 

It is wonderful the amount of pleasure and satis- 
faction that can be had with a Chafing Dish. Few 
people know how to use one successfully, although the 
art is easily acquired. This book, for instance, gives 
the proper directions for making hosts of good things, 
and if they are followed implicitly, the most inexperi- 
enced person can be sure of results. It is a handy 
thing in an emergency, and it forms a delightful adjunct 
to a supper or dinner. Guests are always interested in 
watching the evolution of some delectable dish, and 
the head of the table has a chance to show his or 
her skill. 

New Edition : revised and rewritten, with 
the addition of much new matter 

12 mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Many Ways for Cooking Eggs 

Did you ever reflect what an important part eggs 
play in our domestic economy ? When from any reason 
other things fail, the perplexed housewife knows she 
can do something to tide over her difficulties by the 
use of eggs. But how many know the great possibilities 
that lie in an egg — the very many ways of cooking and 
preparing them for the table? To many, boiled, fried, 
poached and scrambled form the limit of their knowl- 
edge. But get this book and you'll be surprised at the 
feast in store for you. You'll also find recipes for 
delectable Egg Sauces. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's 
Made-Over Dishes 

How to transform the left overs into palatable and 
wholesome dishes. With many new and valuable 
recipes. 
We quote from the author's introduction: 

"Economical marketing does not mean the purchase 
of inferior articles at a cheap price, but of a small 
quantity of the best materials found in the market; 
these materials to be wisely and economically used. 
Small quantity and no waste, just enough and not a 
piece too much, is a good rule to remember. In roasts 
and steaks, however, there will be, in spite of careful 
buying, bits left over, that if economically used, may 
be converted into palatable, sightly and wholesome 
dishes for the next day's' lunch or supper. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs, Rorer*s 
Hot Weather Dishes 

Its name tells the whole story. It is the only book 
of the kind published. Hot weather seems to suspend 
the inventive faculty of even the best housekeepers, 
and at a season when the appetite needs every help 
and encouragement, this book will be found of the 
greatest use. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 

Mrs, Rorer's 

Home Candy Making 

A veritable book of sweets, full of choice recipes, 
with complete instructions for making the many deli- 
cacies that delight both young and old. It is the result 
of careful practice in teaching beginners how to make 
attractive and wholesome varieties of home-made 
candies. The excellence of the recipes consists in their 
simplicity and faithfulness to details. 

12 mo, cloth, 50 cents net; by mail, 55 cents 

Mrs, Rorer's 
Bread and Bread-Making 

The object of this book is two-fold. First, to give 
in a concise and easily-managed form a set of recipes 
used in every household every day. Secondly, to point 
out the reasons why failures so often occur, even with 
perfect recipes, and how to guard against them. 

12mo, cloth, 50 cents net ; by mail, 55 cents 



Mrs. Rorer's Quick Soups 
New Ways for Oysters 

These two books were written in response to 
requests for information on the subjects. Designed to 
meet the special wants of a numerous class of house- 
keepers who are given to entertaining, and are so often 
at loss to know what and how to prepare for their 
guests. The housekeeper will find them very handy 

24mo, cloth, 25 cents net ; by mail, 30 cents 

Household Accounts 

A simple method of recording the daily expenses 
of the family. The book contains ruled pages, syste- 
matically and simply divided into spaces in which are 
kept the purchases for each day of milk, butter, eggs, 
meat, groceries, vegetables, etc. The daily expenses 
total up for the months, and the months for the year. 
There are other forms for recording expenses of help, 
light, heat and general household expenditures in table 
and bed linens, china and kitchen utensils, etc. 

Manilla boards, 25 cents net ; by mail 30 cents 

Cakes, Cake Decorations 
and Desserts 

By Charles H. King. The author tells his meth- 
ods in his own practical way, and gives abundant 
recipes. The book is illustrated by engravings of 
numerous decorated pieces, and has a silhouette chart 

12mo, cloth, $1.00 net; by mail, $1.15 



APR 17 1913 



